{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__stone___letter_to_doctor_a_brigham_on_animal_magnetism____1st.pdf","mytitle":"Letter To Doctor A Brigham On Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
LETTER
'l'O
DOC'rOH A. BRIGHAM ,
ON
ANIMAL MAGNETISM
llEING
AN ACCOUNT OF A REMARKABLE INTERVIEW BETWEEN
'l'HE AUTHOR AND MISS LORAlNA BRACKETT
WHlLE IN A STATE OF SOMNAMBULISM.
BY W ILL I A l\1 L.{ T 0 N E.
,,
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than nrc dreamt of in your ph1lo•ophy.
SliA&ESPEAR&.
SECO!W EDITION, WIT!f ADDITIONS.
NEW-YORK:
GEORGE DEARBORN & CO.
1837.
/. ·-
''•
(t
\
\..1 .;_ .". ~· t I
"•'W•c;"'' .~~ /
---
[Entered according to the Act of Congress of the United States of America, in
the year 1837, by GEoRGE DEARBORN, in the Clerk's Office of the Southern
District of New-York.]
SCATCHERD AND ADAMS,
PR1NTl:RS 1
No. 38 Gold Street.
ANIMAL MAGNET ISM.
LETTER FROM DR. BRIGHAM TO MR. STONE.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 1, 1837.
MY DEAR Sm,
Understanding that you have recently witnessed
many experiments, and even performed some your-
self, illustrative of the powers of Animal Magnetism,
and have become a believer in this new art, science,
or imposture, I am exceedingly desirous of knowing
what phenomena, seen by yourself, have served to
convince you.
Animal Magnetism has attracted the attention of
many of the most scientific men in Europe, some of
whom believe in the extraordinary power ascribed
to it. That very remarkable effects may result from
extreme sensibility, or disease of the nervous system,
I can readily believe-we see such in Catalepsy,
Somnambulism, &c. We read 'of such in every age.
In every age great moral commotions, by affecting
the organization of some very sensitive persons, have
produced very singular physical and intellectual
phen~mena. The Trembleurs des Cevennes, and the
Convulsionnaires de Saint Mdard, are memorable in-
stances. Many of the results attributed to Animal
Magnetism may be accounted for, by supposing an
4
unusual augmentation of sensibility,-but other phe-
nomena ascribed to it cannot be thus explained, and
an inunensity of proof appears to me to be neces~ary,
in order to establish things so extraordinary, and so
contrary to the common sense and to the testimony
of all times.
The facts which have served to make you a be-
liever in Animal Magnetism, must be curious and
interesting, and when your leisure permits, I beg you
will furnish them in detail, that others may know on
what evidence one who has been charged with a
lamentable want of credulity on some subjects, and
who must be disinterested, has become convinced of
the truth of these most incredible phenomena.
Very respectfully your friend,
A. BRIGHAM.
WILLIAM L. SToNE, Esq.
LETTER OF MR. STONE TO DR. BRIGHAJ\1.
NR\V-YORK, SEPTE;\1BER 10, 1837.
DEAR Sm,
Your favour of the first instant reached me several
days since, and in so far as "a round unvarnished
tale" will serve the purposes of your inquiry, I can
have not the slightest objection to a compliance with
your request. I can the more readily do this from
the circumstance, that the greatest portion of the la-
bor is already performed; that is, if you refer, as I
presume you do, to certain circumstances connected
with ANIMAL MAGNETISM, which transpired during a
5
brief visit recently made by me to the city of Provi-
dence. A full narration of that visit, so far as it was
connected with the science of Animal .Magnetism
"falsely so called"-for I hold that nothing can
xightly be regarded as a science which has not been
xeduced to fixed principles-was written immediate-
ly after my return, while all the circumstances were
fresh in my recollection; and, in order to still greater
accuracy, I have since made another flying visit to
Rhode Island, and submitted the manuscript to seve-
ral persons who were present at the time when the
events related occurred.
Before I proceed to the main design of the present
communication however, allow me to correct a mis-
apprehension into which, like many others of my
friends, you have been betrayed by the loose reports
of common fame. The inference from your letter is,
that I have suddenly become a convert to Animal
Magnetism, to the whole extent claimed and practis-
ed by Frederick Anthony Mesmer, the founder of the
art, and contended for by vVolfart and Kluge, and
the other German and French enthusiasts, who have
written in explanation and support of the system.
'l'his is an error. I am not a positive believer in the
system, because I know not what to believe; and
yet, I am free to confess, that I have recently be-
held phenomena, under circumstances where collu-
sion, deception, fraud, and imposture, were alike out
of the question, if not impossible, which have brought
me from the position of a positive sceptic to a dead
pause. From the evidence of my own senses, I have
6
been compelled, if not to relinquish, at least very es-
sentially to modify, my disbelief; and I can no longer
deny, although I cannot explain, the extraordinary
phenomena produced by the exertion of the mental
energy of one person upon the mind of another, while
in a state of what is termed magnetic slumber. Still,
I pray you not to write me down as a believer in the
charlatanerie of Mesmer and Deslon, or as a disciple
of M. Poyen, or as an encourager of the other strol-
ling dealers in somnambulism, who traverse the coun-
try, exhibiting their " sleeping beauties," as lovers,
not of science, but of gain.
For many months past, in common with most read-
ers, if not all, of the public journals, I had seen much
upon the subject of Animal Magnetism, particularly
in connexion with the names of Monsieur Poyen, and
his pupil, Miss Gleason. The illustrations of M.
Poyen, and the exploits of Miss Gleason while un-
der the magnetic influence imparted by him, had
been standing themes of comment in the New Eng-
land papers. I had seen that M. Poyen was favored
by many believers, some of them, even, among the
disciples of JEsculapius. There were others, laymen
and members of the faculty, who doubted. Others,
again, and probably far the largest class, ·were posi-
tive sceptics. 'l'hese were doing all in their power
to discredit the professor, his science, and his patient,
as well by argument as by the withering process of
. ridicule. Still, M. Poyen persisted in the illustrations
of his favorite science, and I had noted that acces-
sions to the number of believers in his system were
7
occasionally gained, even from the ranks both of the
learned and the wise. Educated, however, in the belief
that Mesmer was an impostor, that his followers were
enthusiasts, and his patients affected, if at all, only
through the workings of their own imaginations,-
and disliking, exceedingly, the public exhibitions he
was making for money,-I was not only an unbe-
liever, but a satirist of the whole affair.
Not long afterward it was reported that the sys-
tem of M. Poyen had not only been introduced into
Providence, but that the illustrations exhibited there
had made a deep impression upon some of the sound-
est and best balanced minds in that city and its vi-
cinity. The publications upon the subject assumed
a grave character, and the names quoted as among
those who, if not full believers in the science, had at
least been brought to admit that there was some-
thing mysterious in the developements daily making
of the extent and power of the magnetic influence,
both upon the bodies and minds of those who had
been made subjects of it, caused me to pause, and
question of myself "whereunto these things would
grow." Still I was a pretty sturdy unbeliever. The
early history of Animal Magnetism was familiar to
me. I had read also of the Convulsionnaries de St.
Medard, of which you have reminded me ; of the
strange epidemic which set half the nuns in Chris-
tendom simultaneously to mewing like cats and kit-
tens in concert; of the still stranger doings among
various religionists in Kentucky, some thirty or forty
years ago ; and of course I had not forgotten the
8
melancholy delusion which once overspread New
England in regard to witchcraft. My inclination,
therefore, was to write down Animal Magnetism in
the same catalogue of the eccentricities, if not the
absurdities, of the human mind ; and to look upon its
extension in Rhode Island as the work, if not of cre-
dulity and imposture, at least of mental excitement,
sympathy, and delusion.
Such in brief, were my views and feelings in re-
gard to Animal Magnetism, until on or about the 22d
day of August ultimo, when a letter was placed in
my hands by a Providence gentleman, from a distin-
guished prelate in the Episcopal Church, then on a
visit to that city, inviting my attention to the subject,
and intimating the writer's belief that were I to in-
vestigate the phenomena of the magnetic influence
myself, I might perhaps be more sparing of my sar-
casms in relation to it. The letter was one of in-
troduction, and I entered immediately into conversa-
tion with the bearer upon the subject, of which he
was full. He confirmed various reports which had
previously reached me, and also the fact, that the new
science ( I use the word for its convenience, not for
its correctness,) was seriously engaging the attention
of men of science and learning in Providence-phy-
sicians, philosophers, and theologians ; and that the
results of many experiments were causing it to be
regarded with grave and increasing interest. He
likewise related to me a number of facts of a sur-
prising character, of the truth of which I could not
entertain a doubt without impeaching the character
9
of my informant for veracity. His manner, moreover,
was such as to convince me that he was sincere in
what he said. He spoke of a number of patients in
Providence, under the charge of several physicians,
who had been subjected to the magnetic treatment,
with wonderful results. Among these, he told me of
a blind young lady, upon whom some surprising expe-
rimentshadbeenmade. I wasinformed,that, although
blind, yet, when in a state of magnetic slumber, she
had been sent to a fancy dry goods store to select
various articles of merchandize, and that she per-
formed the service as well as a lady of perfect sight
would have done it. He also stated to me, that by
the will of the magnetiser, she would go into a flow-
er-garden, when asleep, and cull various flowers of
various hues. It was likewise stated that she had
read a note sent to her from a distance, under three
envelopes, and that the contents were sent back to
the writer, who was at the time unknown, while
the seals of the envelopes remained unbroken.
These, and several other extraordinary experiments
mentioned to me in the course of the interview, could
not but create a strong desire Ol} my part to investi-
gate the subject for myself. It happened that I was
then making preparations to visit some valued friends
in Providence, and I left New-York with a determi-
nation, if possible, to see the blind lady, and have
the evidence of my own senses in regard to the exer-
cise of this recently revived, and, if true, most won-
derful influence.
I arrived in Providence on Saturday, the 26th of
2
./
10
August; and my inquiries, which were immediate7
touching the above-mentioned reports, resulted in the
confirmation, substantially, of their truth. Ofcourse ·
my curiosity was greatly excited, and my anxiety to
see the young lady increased in a corresponding ra-
tio. I was informed, moreover, that the subject was
a young lady of most respectable ·character, and of
decided and unaffected piety,-the patient of Doctor
George Capron, a physician ofestablished reputation,
and above all the devices and designs of quackery,
charlatanism, or imposture. The name of the young
lady is Loraina Brackett, from the town of Dudley,
Mass. · Four years since, as I have learned from her
friends, particularly from Dr. Capron, she had the
misfortune to have an iron weight of several pounds
fall from a considerable elevation on the crown of
her head. The injury was so severe as to deprive
her almost of life, and entirely of her reason for se-
veral months, " during which time she was subject
to the most violent nervous, and other serious de-
rangements of the nervous system. From the imme-
diate effects of this injury she gradually recovered,
and at the end of the year her general health was
partially restored." But, notwithstanding this im-
provement of her bodily health, her eyes were so
badly affected by this injury as to produce amaurosis,
a disease of the optic nerves, which threatened total
blindness. As usual in cases of this disease, the loss
of sight was very gradual, until, about eighteen
months since, it was entirely extinguished. "Simul-
taneously with the loss of sight, she sustained a loss
11
of voice, so complete, that for fifteen months she was
unable to utter a single guttural sound, and could
only whisper almost inaudible tones." Her case was
considered hopeless by her friends; and in May last
arrangements were made for sending her to the Blind
School at Boston, under the charge of my valued
friend, Dr. S. G. Howe, where it was hoped she
might be qualified for a teacher of the blind. When
on her way to Boston, in May last, she took Provi-
dence in her road, for the purpose of visiting some
friends in that city. It happened that Dr. Capron
wa~ the physician of one of the families Miss Brack-
ett ~as visiting; and having accidentally become ac-
quainted with her history, and learning that all the
usual remedies for the deplorable malady under
which she was laboring had been employed for her
relief in vain, Dr. C., having some brief experience
as a magnetiser, and being then engaged in the
work of investigating its remedial effects, after ex-
amining her case as a matter of curiosity, proposed
the magnetic tre~tment. As you are yourself a
physician, I need not remind you that amaurosis of-
ten assumes the paralytic character, and that Ani-
mal Magnetism has from the first'been prescribed by
the practisers of the art in cases of neurology, and
especially those of a paralytic character.
The consent of Miss Brackett and her friends for
that purpose having been obtained, the practice was
commenced in the month of May, and has been con-
tinued daily, with few intermissions, until the present
time. The results, thus far, in a medical point of
12
view, have been the most salutary. Her voice has
been entirely restored, so that it is clear, and her
emmciation distinct and agreeable. Her natural
sight, moreover, to say nothing at present of that mys-
terious faculty called mental vision, or clairvoyance
by the French, has been so far recovered from total
blindness, that she can now distinguish light from
darkness. She can, when awake, discern objects,
like shadows; though she cannot distinguish a man
from a woman by the dress.
Such, in brief, was the history of the young lady,
and the cause and extent of her malady, communi-
cated to me shortly after my arrival in Providence,
and more fully by Dr. Capron and others since. I
was farther informed that the young lady was diffi-
dent and retiring in her manners, and of delicate and
sensitive feelings; and thatneither herself, her friends,
nor her physician, were ambitious of any thing ap-
proaching to a public exhibition. On the contrary,
they preferred remaining without public observation.
I ought here to add, that Miss B. had received a good
education, previous to the accident which had sub-
jected her to such painful deprivations, and that her
friends in Providence sustain characters not only re-
spectable, but irreproachable.
Having thus satisfied myself, by information de-
rived from the most unquestionable authorities, that
in regard to the case of this young lady the half that
the facts would warrant had not been told me; and
that, however extraordinary might be the appear-
.ances, or however surprising the developements of
13
the mysterious principle or influence asserted to ex-
ist by the magnetisers, yet neither Miss Brackett her-
self, nor her friends, nor her physician, would be guilty
of deception, or accessary, directly or indirectly, to .
an imposture, the next step was, if possible, to obtain
an interview. '{1his object was accomplished at my
own urgent solicitation, and through the interposition
of a distinguished literary friend, acquainted with
the young lady and her protectors. I was entirely
unacquainted with them all, and was only introduced
to Doctor Capron on Saturday afternoon, August
26th. I found him all that he had been described to
me-an intelligent gentleman, alike above imposture,
deception, collusion, and quackery. He remarked
that the friends of Miss Brackett had objected to any
public exhibition, or any thing like display before
strangers. However, by his influence, and the exer-
tions of my friend, an interview for experiment was
arranged for the then ensuing Monday morning at 10
o'clock, at which a few of my friends were to be
present. Meantime I heard other and farther rela-
tions of the wonderful effects of Magnetic influence
upon the system, the senses, and the mental faculties,
not only of Miss Brackett, but of'other somnambulists
in Providence and its vicinity, the patients of physi"
cians of undoubted character. In regard to Miss
Brackett, I was assured, upon authority not to be
questioned, that the power of seeing objects not
present, or rather of transporting herself in imagi-
nation from one place to another, no matter how
distant, and of viewing objects and scenes which she
14
had never seen or heard described, and giving cor-
rect accounts of them herself, had been strikingly
displayed in many instances. One gentleman had
taken her to Washington, where she accurately de-
scribed the localities, the Capitol, and the leading
objects within and around it. Another, some time
since, had taken her to New-York, and placed her
in the Park, and conducted her to sundry other
places. On one occasion, while making her supposed
voyage, in a steam-boat, she became sea-sick, and
gave the actual unfeigned symptoms of that nauseat-
ing disease. In addition to which, Mr. Hopkins,
the gentleman at whose house she was to meet us,
took her on the evening of the Sabbath7 the day be-
fore I was to see her, to Saratoga Springs, whence
he and Mrs. Hopkins had just returned. Mr. H. told
me on Monday morning that her description of the
buildings and localities at the Springs was correct;
and that when in fancy he took her to the Congress
fountain, to drink of the water, she dashed it from
her on tasting, and said she disliked it-suiting the
muscular action of her features to the expression of
that dislike.
With such information in my possession, I deter-
mined in my own mind upon a course of examination
which would test the case most thoroughly, and in a
manner rendering deception, delusion, and imposition
of every kind, entirely out of the question-even did
not the excellent character of all the parties afford
an ample guarantee against any and every attempt
of the kind. But I kept several of the particular
15
tests which I meant to employ entirely within my
own bosom, not imparting a hint or suggestion of my
design even to my most intimate friends.
Agreeably to appointment, we met at the house of
Mr. Hopkins a few minutes before ten, on Monday
morning the 28th of August. There were present
the literary friend already referred to, another cler-
gyman with his daughter and another young lady;
Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins, Mr. Isaac Thurber, another
gentleman whose name I do not recollect, Doctor
Capron and myself. The patient was presently
ushered into the room, and we were all introduced
to her-passing a few moments in agreeable con-
versation. I found the young lady of delicate mind
and manners, modest and diffident. None could
see without being favorably impressed in her behalf.
She was, of course, aware of the object of our visit;
and Dr. Capron soon took a seat near her, and com-
menced the process of what is called magnetizing.
I ought before to have remarked, that Dr. Capron
had previously cautioned me not to expect too great
things, since it was a matter of uncertainty whether
the slumber would be profound, ~nd the mind clear ;
and whether, moreover, she might not become way-
ward and obstinate, after being thrown into sleep.
Much depended on the calmness of his own mind
and the intensity of its fixedness upon the business
in hand ; much also depended upon the state of mind
of the patient.
The process was chiefly by the action of the eyes,
with some slight manipulations. In these, however,
16
there was nothing disagreeable or objectionable, in
the remotest degree, even to the most refined and
sensitive mind. In :five minutes the patient gave
signs of dro"rsiness, and in four minutes more she
was in a deep and profound slumber-insensible, as
we ascertained by experiment, alike to the touch and
the voices of all present, excepting her physician.
He then told her that he wished her to be in commu~
nication with all of us, and to converse with all the
company present who wished to speak with her. On
the instant she seemed aware that she was in the
company of several people, and gave indications of
displeasure.
"I don't like to be looked at in this way by stran~
gers," she said.
'l'he Doctor attempted to soothe her, but she rna~
nifested displeasure, and said she would not stay to
be thus gazed at by strangers.
Doctor. " But they are not strangers ; they are
your friends. .You have been introduced to them,
and after being introduced, people are no longer
strangers."
Miss Brackett. "I'll not be looked at in this way;
I will leave the room."
Saying ·which she rose with offended dignity, and
walked toward the door. I began now to fear that
the experiment was ended, and that her obstinacy
could not be removed. The Doctor, however, took
her hand, and succeeded in changing her purpose,
when she walked into the other part of the drawing·
room.
17
It was arranged that the first experiments should
be made for the purpose of eliciting some of the phe-
nomena of clairvoyance, or mental vision. For this
purpose an exhibition was made of various prints,
large and small, likenesses of distinguished persons,
&c., with which my friend had provided himself from
his own house. With some of these the front parlor
was hung, before we entered it from the back room,
while the smaller prints were thrown upon the cen-
tre-table. It must here be borne in mind, in the first
place, what has already been several times remarked;
that the patient is blind. Her eyelids, moreover,
were entirely closed; in addition to which, cotton
batts were placed over her eyes, and confined by a
pair of green spectacles. It would, therefore, have
been impossible for her to see-or rather, any other
person would have been involved in the deepest
darkness, with eyes thus closed, and then cotton batts
over them.
Soon after going into the room she appeared to
see the pictures and admire them. This fact was
tested in every way. From her repugnance to so
much company, however, the little circle drew as
much as possible away from her; and her chief con-
versation on the subject of pictures was held with
my friend, with whom, both sleeping and waking,
she had previously been acquainted. Invariably,
when she studi~d a picture, she turned her back up-
on the wall against "\Vhich it hung. When she took
up a print to examine it, she held it at the back ofher
head, or rather just over the parietal bone. With
3
18
my friend she conversed freely, and selected from
the small prints a likeness of Mrs. Judson, whose life
she said she had read several times. She took up a
portrait, while standing on the side of the room op~
posite to my friend and myself, and putting it to the
side of her head, almost behind, as she remained
alone, inquired-" Is not this a likeness of John Fos-
ter?-John-Yes, it is John Foster." I immediately
passed around the table to her, and held a brief con-
versation with her respecting the character and writ-
ings of Foster-of whom there had not been a word
said, before she selected his picture and pronounced
his name. Her reading of the names on the prints
was very slow, as she read by lettering, as the free-
masons call it; that is, by studying each letter, and
first repeating it in a whisper, as though to herself.
But she made no mistakes that were discovered.
She had an objection to read, arising from an idea,
if we JVere looking at the picture with her, that we
knew as well as she, and that it was idle in us to
ask her what we could not be ignorant of. If, how-
ever, she was holding a picture by herself, in a dif-
ferent part of the room, on asking the question, whose
likeness she was looking at ? she would answer·cor-
rectly, as in the case of John Foster. Sometimes
she would exhibit the simplicity of childhood, as in
the case of an allegorical print suspended by the
wall. The inscription was-" America guided by
Wisdom." l\ly friend asked her to read it. Shere-
plied, that she would read half of it if he would read
the other half. She then, after a moment of study,
19
read "America guided "-and ·would read no more;
insisting, playfully, that the gentleman referred to
must read the other two words.
In the early part of this exhibition she suddenly
exclaimed-" why, who could have put that there 1
It is no ornament to such a room as this.." Saying
which, she stepped across the carpet, and took down
a coarsely printed handbill, which had been sus-
pended among the prints over the mantel-piece, by
design, but which had not attracted my notice until
she thus directed the attention of the circle to the
object.
Having satisfied ourselves of the wonderful powers
of "vision without the use of visual organs," as ex-
hibited upon these objects, and of which I have given
but a brief outline, Dr. Capron, by an exercise of the
will, withdrew her attention from the whole circle
to himself, and then gave her a particular introduc-
tion to me. Leading her to a seat, I sat down by
her side, and the Doctor transferred her hand into
mine, and clothed me with the power of enjoying her
exclusive company.
I then commenceda conversation with Miss Brack-
ett, upon ordinary subjects, just as I would have
done with any strange lady to whom I might be in-
troduced-talking upon various matters, and she con-
versing in a sprightly and intelligent manner-inva-
riably using very correct English. I inquired, both
of her:;;elf and friends, before she was magnetised,
whether she had ever been in New-York, and was
assured that she had not. In the course of my re-
20
marks, I now asked her whether she would like to
visit New-York? She replied that she would-'' she
should like to go there very well." I then observed
that it would afford me pleasure to accompany her,
and asked-
" How shall we go? Shall we not take the steam-
boat Narragansett? It is a very fine boat, and now
lies at the dock."
She replied she did not like to go in a steamboat.
It made her sick. This remark was noted as afford-
ing an illustration of her former ideal voyage, in
which she actually became sea-sick, as was reported
to me.
" How then will you go?"
" I should like to go through the air." ,
"Very well," I replied,-" we will step into a bal-
loon. That will be a pleasant mode of travelling."
She did not, however, seem to comprehend what
was meant by a balloon, and repeated her desire to
go through the air. I assured her that I would as
gladly accompany her that way as any other.
" But you must not let me fall," said she.
"Oh no," I replied. "I am used to that way of
travelling, and will bear you up in perfect safety."
Saying which, she grasped my right hand more
firmly-took my left hand-and pressed upon both,
tremulously, as if buoying herseH up. I raised my
ha11ds some ten or twelve inches, very slowly, favor-
ing the idea that she was ascending.
" You must keep me up," she said, with a slight
21
convulsive, or rather shuddering grasp, as though ap-
prehensive of a fall.
" Certainly," I replied, "you
I am used to these excursions."
gination, we sailed.
* * * *
need have no fear.
And away, in ima-
* *
"'!'here is Bristol !" she exclaimed; " stop-we
must look at Bristol. I have been here before. I
always admired it. What beautiful streets!"
" Very beautiful, indeed," I replied-and we re-
sumed our aerial voyage.
"Oh," said she, "how I like to travel in this way
-it is so easy, and we go so quick."
"Yes," I answered, "and here we are at New-
York. Come, we will descend at the north end of
the Battery."
She then grasped my hands more closely, and bore
down exactly as though descending from a height.
" Safely down," said I. " There is the dock where
the Providence steam-boat comes in."
" Indeed !" she replied; " but it is not so good a
place as where they came in before." I have alrea-
dy stated that she had some time previously made a
short imaginary visit to New-York, in a steam-boat.
The places of landing have during the present sea-
son been changed from Market and Chamber's
streets to the north end of the Battery. I am un-
certain, however, whether the change was made be-
fore or since that voyage, as I forgot to inquire into
the particulars of that point, although I mentioned
the fact of the change of the landing-place to the cir-
22
cle, and it is possible that her voyage took place be-
fore the change.
I now asked her whether she would like to step
into Castle Garden a few minutes? She replied
"yes;" but immediately asked how we should get
through the gate? I answered that there would be no
difficulty, as I had a season ticket. " But," said she,
" I don't like the looks of that man by the gate." I
told her she need have no fear. He was a constable
or police officer-they always had somebody of that
character by the gate-but he knew me very well,
and would open the gate as soon as we should corn e
up.
lC There," said she, " I told you we could not get
the gate open."
" But," said I, " we can go through the side gate
here. Come, here we are."
" It does not seem much like a garden," she said.
" Very true," I replied. " It was an old fort, which
has been fitted up as a place of amusement. It is
here that they get up grand displays of fire-works."
"I am not fond of fire-works. I never cared about
seeing them."
"But they don't get them up in the day time, and
only on festival occasions. At other times people
come here to get fresh air, drink lemonade and
punch, and smoke segars."
" Do they allow them to smoke in the garden?"
lC It is unfortunately so," I rejoined.
At this moment she appeared to act cautiously, as
though experiencing the sensations of stepping upon
23
tt bridge. I spoke too quickly, and said the bridge
was perfectly safe, and we would walk along.
I then observed a smile playing upon her features.
" 'What pleases you?" I inquired. "Why," said she,
"what a queer hat that man has got on."
" What man?"
"'Vhy, that man, there, with the large round hat,
like a Quaker's.))
" What sort of a coat has he on, or is it a jacket?))
"It is a round jacket-and look, his hat has a
rounJ, low crown."
It instantly occurred to me that she had described
the dress of the Castle-Garden Boat Club, whose
boat-house stands at the farther end of the bridge,
where, also, their boat is moored. 'rhere is general-
ly some one or more of the club at their room; and
I doubt not that one of the members was then at the
club-house, and was seen by Miss Brackett. A
member of the club, whom I met the same evening,
assured me that such was their dress, and he believ-
ed that one of their members must have been there
at the time.
On approaching the massive portal of the garden-
wall, Miss B. drew back, arid said she had rather not
go in. It was no garden, and she did not like to go
through that gate.
It will here be remarked that she seemed to have
seen both the gates, and the bridge-as also the cas-
tle walls_:_since it ·was one of her first observations,
that she saw nothing like a garden. 'l1
he misnomer
24
of calling such a place a garden, would at once strike
the attention of any stranger.
" I choose not to go in," she repeated.
" Just as you say," I replied; "we will turn about,
and walk up town ; now we are on the Battery.
How do you like the trees?"
She here gave indications of not understanding
why the esplanade should be called a Batte1·y. I
told her the name was derived from an ancient for-
tress which stood there. "Oh," she replied, "then
this is the place of the old fort."
Having lingered a few moments, and the compa-
nion of my imaginary journey having expressed her
admiration of the beauty of the place, I proposed con-
tinuing our walk up Broadway; to which she as-
sented.
* * * * * *
" And here we are by the Bowling-Green," I re-
marked. "How do you like it?"
"It is very pretty."
"Well; here is Mr. Ray's house-how do you like
that?"
" It is a splendid house."
" On the left hand," said I.
"No; on the right hand-but stop,"-she said-
" why-there-(smiling,) I was turned round, and
was walking back down the street. You are right.
It is on the left hand."
At this moment her attention appeared to be di-
vided between two or more objects-one on either
hand. I inquired what she saw on her right. She
25
declined a direct answer, and evaded a reply two or
three times. She then extended her hands to the
left, as if curiously examiningsomething by the touch.
" I saw something like this at Washington," she re-
marked. ['l'his was during her ideal visit, of which
I have spoken above, for she has never been there.
The gentleman making that dreamy visit, however,
said that her description of some statuary was cor-
rect.] "It is carved," she continued. And then she
turned to the object on her right, and I again asked
what it was. She replied that she did not wish to
tell me, and I inferred, as did others of the circle,
that she had descried something that offended her
delicacy. Then turning to the left, she said-
" Why-they are"-" They are what 7" I demanded.
"Why, I am trying to see." "What do they look
like? Do they resemble lions?" " Yes," she re-
plied-" they are lions-bronzed lions." I had spo-
ken the word lions too hastily; but her own unaided
discovery that the noble pair of lioris dormant guard-
ing the portals of Mr. Ray's house, were of bronze,
rendered this incident the most striking develope-
ment in the case, thus far. I then asked her of what
materials the house was built. ·She replied, "I will
feel of it and see,"-suiting the action to the word.
"Why," she continued, "I have seen a house built
of the same materials in Boston." She was asked
whether it resembled any building in Providence-
whether the color resembled the Arcade. " It looks
like the columns of the Arcade," she replied. Those
4
26
columns are of Eastern granite, and so is the house
of Mr. Ray.
We then resumed our walk along Broadway, and
as we approached Trinity Church, she complained
of the crowds of people. Presently she was embar-
rassed in getting along, as if shrinking from the
crowd, and edging sideways as though jostled by
the throng. "I never saw people crowd so," she
remarked. " Why, they run over a body without
the least care." She was indeed much perplexed to
go onward, while I was liberal in assurances of pro-
tection; telling her that New-York was the grand
receptacle of people of all nations-and that the im-
migrants, Irish, Dutch, Swiss, French, Spanish-
every body-were wont to throng Broadway; but
they would not injure her, and we should soon get
through the multitude.
'rhus we proceeded as far as the Astor House. I
asked her if she had ever heard of the Astor House 1
she replied she had not. "Nor of Mr. Astor?"
"No." I then gave her an outline of the history of
that gentleman-how he came to New-York a poor
immigrant, and seeing a wealthy man building a
large house in Broadway, mentally resolved one day
to build a still greater ; how he embarked in the fur
trade, and in connexion with this point, I introduced
incidentally the name of Jacob Weber, formerly of
German Flatts, with whom Mr. Astor was connected,
in early life, in the Indian fur trade, and whom I had
once known very well. I repeated to her the well-
known anecdote which has been related of \Veber,
27
and perhaps of a dozen others, that in purchasiug
furs of the Indians, he was wont to use his fist for a
one pound weight, and his foot for two pounds.
"But that was not just," interrupted Miss Brackett
-repeating, "It was not just, and I should not think
they would have prospered." ·
"Mr. Astor had nothing to do with that," I conti-
nued-adding that his life had afforded a fine illus-
tration of one of the essays of John Foster, whose
picture she had been examining-that on Decision
of Character. She was quite interested in the story,
and we proceeded on our walk.
" What do you think of this house 7" I inquired.
" It is a noble building," she replied. " I should
like to get a good view of it, but there are so many
people crowding me, that I cannot stand here."
" We will then step across the street into the Park,"
said I, " and you can there obtain a fine view. Here
_,ve will cross over-now-through the gate-
there." " Ah," said she, as in imagination I caused
her to walk into the middle of the Park-" I have
been here before." She then stopped, and gazed up
and around, as if taking a deliberate survey of the
building. "How large !" she exclaimed. I asked
her how many stories high it was. She counted, in
a low whisper, yet so distinct that I heard it, " one
-two-three-four-five." I inquired again, that
she might speak out. ·But she did not.
"It is a splendid building," she continued. "I
should like to go through it. Can we do so 7"
"Oh yes, certainly," I replied. " I will go thro\'gh
with you, with pleasure."
28
" But there are so many people there."
" I know them all very well, and there will be no
difficulty."
I then walked with her to the broad portal, where
she rather shrunk back.
" I don't like to go up those stairs, there are so
many men standing there ! Can we not come
again?"
" To be sure we can," was my reply. "It will af-
ford me much pleasure."
Now, let any one, at any time of the day, step up
to the portal of the Astor House, and look up stairs
to the first floor of the hotel, and say what form of
expression could convey a more accurate description
of the entrance to that establishment, and of the
large groups of men standing there at all hours.
We then resumed our walk, and I proposed to her
to call at my own house, near by, to which she ac-
ceded.
" We will pass the American Hotel," I continued,
" and turn to the left, down Park Place. · It is a
pleasant -street, and my house is just at the foot of it
-adjoining the College Green. * * *
This is the corner, and here we will turn." * * *
" How do you like that building on the opposite
corner?" I asked. "That is the old Mechanics' Hall."
She stopped, and looking up, her attention was sud-
denly arrested by some object of interest.
" What are you looking at, Miss Brackett?" I in-
quired.
"I was looking at that carved work," she replied.
29
" What is it?"
" That is what I am trying to study. They arc
like figures- but you are in such a hurry."
" Oh no; you may look as long as you please.
What do you think it is?"
"I am trying to find out its meaning," she answer-
ed ; " but you hurry me so from one thing to another."
* * * * " Come," said I, after a short
pause, " shall we walk down the street ?"
" You are so impatient," said she. " When a gentle-
man walks with me," she continued, archly, "I don't
like to have him so impatient." .
The rebuke, my friends assured me, would doubt-
less have been 'vell deserved, had I actually been
walking with a lady on the business of sight-seeing
- for it is but too true that in such matters I am al-
ways impatient, and in a hurry. But to the point-
those who are acquainted with the premises we were
examining, will doubtless recollect the sculptured
group above the cornice of the Mechanics' Hall, on
the Park Place front-the figure of Charity dispens-
ing her favors to several orphan children. It was
this group that attracted the attention of my somno-
loquial companion.
" Can I not come and look at it again?" said she,
and we resumed our walk. * * * *
" That," said I, " is the College Green."
" How beautiful !'' she exclaimed. " I must go and
walk there."
"But will you not step into my house first? It ii
close by."
30
" No; I must take a walk there first. But there
is nobody there."
" It is private ground," I replied ; " but the Presi-
dent of the College is my next door neighbor, and I
have permission to walk there whenever I please.
The gate is always open, and we will step in for a
few minutes." On reaching the foot of the street-
" There," she exclaimed, with a playful smile,
"you said the gate was always open, but you see it
is shut."
" It is not locked, however," I rejoined, " as you
will see. * * * There, you see I have
opened it. Now, step in, and we will walk around
the grounds." * * *
" How do you like the College ?" "Very well,"
she replied-" but there is nobody in it." ." Because
it is the vacation," said I; which was the fact.
I then proceeded, during our walk, to give her a
brief history of the College-its breaking up at the
beginning of the war of the Revolution-the harangue
of Hamilton to the people in front, while his rrory
preceptor, by that means, was enabled to escape out
of the back window, &c., &c.; in all which she
was much interested. It is proper here to remark,
by way of explanation, that these conversations and
episodes were necessary, to entertain her during her
imaginary walks, for she did not like being hurried;
and although it was all ideal, yet :Miss Brackett
wanted as much time as though she were in reality
performing the exercise. She wished to stop at dif-
ferent objects as frequently to admire, and to linger
31
as long, as though she were actually awake, not
blind, but clear-sighted-and in New-York.
" How do you like the trees?" I inquired.
"Very well; but there is one of them which is
decaying, and should be cut down and taken away."
I was not aware of this fact, and from my know-
ledge of the trees, thought she must be in error.
On examination since my return, however, I find
that one of the trees, in front of the wing occupied
by Professor McVickar,has been sadly injured, by be-
ing barked in several very large places; and the
trunk is otherwise diseased. A canvas bandage,
tarred, has been applied to the trunk, and the trunk
itself has been smeat:ed with that staple of North
Carolina merchandize.
I told her the President of the College lived in the·
first wing. She replied that there was nobody living
there now-the house being empty. On inquiry, I
find that she was correct-the house being shut up,
and the President's family in the country.
I now proposed to end our walk, and step into my
house, to which I endeavored to lead her. 'rhe
house is No. 36 Church street-is very peculiar in
its construction-having no door•upon the street-
the entrance being by an iron gate into a little
court. There is, on the opposite side of the street, a
somewhat similar entrance, by a door, into the yard
of Mr. Douglass, corner of Park Place and Church
street. As we entert~d the court, Miss Brackett
shuddered, and clung to my side. I asked her what
was the matter. She replied she was afraid of that
32
black man in the yard. I reasoned with her against
any apprehensions of fear, but to no purpose. Mrs.
Hopkins here remarked that Loraina had always
been afraid of negroes, and could not bear to be near
them when well and awake. However, I soon per-
suaded her to proceed, descend into the basement
story, in advance of myself, and see what the ser-
vants were about in the kitchen. She did so, and
reported on her return, that there were two white
women, together with a negress, who was engaged
in cooking something sweet. I asked her whether
she was certain both the· white women were full
grown, and she answered they were. I inquired
what they were about, and sh~ said she did not like
to tell me. I then descended into the kitchen with
her, and asked her what the black woman had in
her hand. She said she did not know, but it looked
like something sweet. I asked her to taste it. She
said," No: she could not taste any thing cooked by
a black woman, because it was not clean." On as-
suring her that a colored woman, if well washed,
would be just as clean as a washed white woman,
she asked for a taste--tried it in her mouth,-said
it was too sweet-and raised her hand to my lips,
saying that I must taste of it also. .
It was evident that this was all incorrect as to
our domestic establishment, and it struck me that she
had by mistake entered the wrong house. I accord-
ingly addressed her thus:-
" \Vhy, Miss Brackett, we haw ·made a mistake,
aud gone into a wrong house. Let us get out as
quick as possible."
Taking her thence into the street, I said, ''Let us
' cross over-that is my house-how do you like it?"
She replied that it was a very pretty house--she
liked it much; but it was a good deal smaller than
the other.
" How many stories has it?"
"Two," was the correct reply.
''How do you like those windows?"
" Oh, they are very beautiful. It would be so
sweet to sit and look out of those windows on the
green."
" Now," said I, " let us walk along to the gate, and
go in. We have been absent in Providence some
time~I have left Mrs. Stone there-and I want now
to come suddenly upon them, and see if perhaps they
are not playing high-life below stairs."
As we passed along, my companion looked up and
said: "Why, I should think you might as well cut
a door through into the street." This would have
been a more important point, had I not some time
previously remarked, by accident, that our house had
no door on the street; Miss B. might have heard that
observation, and she might not.
Arriving at the gate, I again sent her into the
kitchen ·in advance, to take the servants by surprise,
a conceit which seemed to please her. 'l'he passage
into the kitchen from the court, is winding, and she
entered with the caution of a stranger. She then
said, as if to the servants, in a loud whisper-" Hist,
5
34
the Gentleman has come home-I say, the Gentle-
man has come."
Calling her out, I inquired how many servants
were there. She replied, correctly, two. I inquired
their ages, and she answered, again correctly, that
the cook was a woman who seemed to be just past
middle age, and the other a young girl. In a word,
she gave very accurate descriptions of the persons of
two servants who had been left in charge of the house.
I inquired the age of the smaller; she said she could
not tell, but would ask her. She then spoke-" How
old are you 1 Is that your mother 1" Then turning
to me, she observed-" She will not answer me."
She then inquired of the other-" Is that your
daughter 1 How old is she 1" Turning to me again,
she remarked-" Why, she will not answer me ei-
ther." I inquired what they were doing 1 She an-
swered-" not much of any thing"-which I thought
not tmlikely, It being washing day, I asked-" are
they not washing 1" She said, and repeated, they
were not. I asked what kind of a frock the girl had
on 1 She replied that she could not see clearly-'-
the room was-rather dark-but she believed it was
a dark purple sprig. On both of these points she
was mistaken. The cook was washing that day,
and the frock of the girl was blue, with a small light
flower. It is proper to add, moreover, that there was
no colored woman, engaged in culinary operations
or otherwise, at the time in question, in the house
opposite, where I supposed my companion had en-
tered by mistake.
35
Aduressing my fair companion again, I observed
that we had been long enough in the kitchen, and
that I had a number of pictures in the drawing-rooms
above, which I was desirous she should see. We
therefore ascended through the always dark stair- .
case passage, and entered the drawing-room. I at-
tempted to direct her attention to several pictures,
but in her imagination she ran across the room to the
centre-table, standing in one corner, expressing her
admiration of the books with which it was covered.
She glanced at several, speaking of the beautiful
pictures with which they were filled. With one of
them she seemed to be most of all pleased. I asked
her what it was. She replied "Ill-illustrations of
the Bible." I had not thought of the table or books
until she thus called my attention to them. " I saw
just such a one the other day," she said, "at Mr. Far-
ley's in Providence, only the cover of that was brown,
and this is green." Mrs. Hopkins here informed me that
it was so-she had seen, at the house of the Rev.
Mr. Farley, while in the state of magnetic slumber,
a copy ofthe work she was now examining, which that
gentleman, it was ascertained, did actually possess.
I knew that the Bible Illustrations, with a heap of
other literary and pictorial volumes, were lying upon
the table in question, and I knew that we had pos-
sessed one with a green cover. One of the two,
however, had been presented to a friend-but of
which color I knew not. On returning home, I found
that she was in error with regard to the cover-it
being brown instead of green. But by the side of
36
it, lay the " Gems of Beauty," in green morocco, and
another Keepsake bound in the same color.
Having satisfied herself with the books, she next
turned to the pictures, though not without urging.
· Reaching up her hands, she took down a small paint-
ing, and asked me to look at it-placing it in my
hands. I asked her what it was. "Ask me what it
is !" said she, "when you have it in your own hands,
and know as well as I !" She would do no such
thing!
I then asked her to examine the painting over the
side-board. She looked at it for some time, and in
answer to questions, expressed great pleasure at its
beauty. But I could not induce her to tell me what
it was, or describe it, for the avowed reason that I
was looking at it with her, and it was trifling with
her to ask such a question.
Dr. Capron here remarked to the circle, that such
was her usual course. Whenever she was looking
at an object with, as she supposed, another person,
she would not answer questions of this description-
believing either that they were not seriously put, or
that the questioner was quizzing or sporting with
her. All, therefore, that I could obtain from her,
with the exception of general expressions of appro-
bation, was the remark-that she did not like the
man's coat in the foreground. Here, also, it should
be noted, that when in the magnetic state she can
talk only with the person or persons with whom the
magnetiser has willed that she shall be in communi-
cation. She can hear nothing addressed to her by
37
any one else, nor can she hear the conversation be-
tween any two individuals, nor even the person with
whom she is in communication if he directs his speech
to any but herself. He must speak to her, or she
hears him not, and only wonders why his lips move,
and yet that he does not speak.*
My next experiment was with another picture of
a. very peculiar character. "Miss Brackett," said I,
" there is a picture in the other room, hanging over
the couch, which I value highly. I wish you would
look at it." [I ought before to have remarked, that
in no instance did I indicate to herwhat were the sub-
jects of the pictures ; and of the existence of three of
them, of which I shall soon speak, and ·which I de-
signed to make the principal tests, not a soul in the
room, as I believe, had any previous knowledge ex-
cepting myself.] Miss B. thereupon walked into the
otherroom-the folding-doors standingopen, and look- ·
ed lvith ,great interest upon the picture I had indicat-
ed. But although she appeared to inspect it minute!y,
I could elicit no description from her. I told her that
both the pictures were painted by a young and pro-
mising artist, a Mr. Hoxie, and I valued them highly.
He was a young man of great merit, and I would
take some opportunity of introducing him to her.
" '\Vhere is he ~" she asked; " I do not see him." I
*Statement of Mr. Jesse Metcalf, one of Miss Bracket't's friends, contained,
among other interesting papers, in the Appendix to No. I of Deleuze's Practical
Illustration of Animal Magnetism, Providence, by R. Cranston & Co. De.
leuze's work has been translated by Mr. Hartshorne, ofProvidence, and the col-
lection ofpapers in the Appendix embodies a !urge .nmcunt of important facts
tU,pon the subject, .recently .de:veloped in that city..
38
replied that he was not here now, but I would see
him soon ; and then attempted again to elicit some-
thing of a description from her. But she evaded me
artfully as before.
Dr. Capron again spoke to me, of which circum-
stance, however, she was evidently unconscious; and
remarked, that when I had proceeded as far as I
wished, he would come suddenly upon her, as if on
a visit to New-York, and after taking her from me,
she would without doubt freely relate to him all that
had taken place between her and myself. In this
way I would be abundantly able to form an opinion
as to the power of the Magnetic influence upon the
mind, when the body is wrapped in insensible slum-
ber so profound that the discharge of a park of artil-
lery would not disturb her.
There were various other paintings in the drawing-
rooms, too many for a particular examination within
the time at our command. Among these were se-
veral portraits. To one of these, an admirable head
by Inman, Miss Brackett objected that the coat was
too old-fashioned, and she wondered they should have
painted a man in such a coat. The remark as to
the rather countrified cut of the coat, was correct·
'
but she spoke of a quaker coat, as appearing upon
one of the portraits, which is not there. She was
asked, if among the portraits there was any one
which she recognized? She replied that there was
one gentleman whom she thought she had once seen
in Providence. It was the portrait of one of my in-
timate friends who was of the party, and to whom
she had been introduced in the moruiug; by Fro-
thingham.
I now asked Miss Brackett to walk with me into
the library-a small apartment built purposely for
that object, and in a degree separate from the main
body of the house. I told her that I had some pic-
ttrres in that room, to which I wished particularly to
invite her attention-giving her, however, not the
slightest intimation as to the character of the pic-
tmes. On entering the library, " this," said I, " is
my den-my literary work-shop-where I can shut
myself up, and be as secluded as I please. I built it
on purpose." " Oh," said she," it is a nice little place
-I should like to shut myself up here too ; come,
you go out, and leave me alone-I want to read these
books. But," she continued, " if you built this on
purpose, why did you not make it wider while you
were about it? It is so long and narrow, and so
close-it wants some air." Now, these are exactly
the criticisms upon my private " den," made by all
my waking friends; for it so happens, that, in its con-
struction, having but a small lot, I made a sad mis-
calculation as to the width of the room.
I explained the matter to her, and told her I would
leave her with the books as long as she pleased af-
ter we had looked at the pictures. I then asked her
to look at the upper painting above the fire-place.
Now, I must remark in this place, that that was a
picture which I had recently purchased, and which
had only been sent home on the preceding Tuesday
or Wednesday. No person in the room,excepting
40
myself, knew of its existence. She looked at the
picture, and became instantly pensive. Presently
her bosom heaved with sighs. I asked her what she
thought of it. She said she did not like to look at it
any more. I then requested her to look at the pic-
ture below. She did so, and in a moment was ab-
sorbed >Yith curious interest. But, as before, she
would not describe it to me, farther than to say it
was the portrait of a dark colored man ; but she
brought her hand round her head, as much as to say
there was something peculiar about the head. I
then again directed her attention to the upper pic-
ture. She immediately became pensive, and affected
as before. The experiment was repeated several
times, until, in contemplating the upper picture, she
sobbed and wept. "Well," said I, "if that picture
affects you so much, Miss Brackett, you need look at
it no more. I have here a picture, in this drawer,
·which I prize highly, and will show it you." Saying
which, I opened the drawer, and handed her the pic-
ture. She (in imagination, of course,) took the pic-
ture, and observed in a whisper, as if talking to her-
self, "oh, it's a miniature." I asked her what she_
thought of it? She replied it was very beautiful-
but would not describe it, for the reasons I have al-
ready several times mentioned.
I now requested Dr. Capron to take her from me,·
and resume his sway over her for the purpose of the
suggested cross-examination through him as to what
she had seen. He took her by the hand, and the fol-
lowing scene ensued :-
" Ah, Loraina, are you here ?"
"Why, Doctor, how do you do? When did you
come from Providence?"
" I have just arrived."
" I am glad to see you."
"And I am very glad to see you. When did you
come to New-York?"
. I forget the reply to this question. The conversa-
tion, however, was upon the common topics which
would be naturally suggested by an actual meeting
of friends, under the circumstances imagined. The
Doctor continued:
" How have you been engaged since you came to
New-York? Have you seen any thing?"
" Oh yes. Mr. Stone has been taking a walk with
me, and shown me a great many things." She then
informed him, in answer to questions, of her walk
through Broadway-mentioned the lions-the Astor
House-and other matters, not necessary to be re-
peated for the purpose of this narrative. Doctor Ca-
pron continued :
"Well, Loraina, when Mr. Stone was in Provi-
dence, a few days since, he spoke to me of some pic-
tures which he prizes highly. Did you see any of
them?"
"Oh yes. I went to his house and saw a great
many. I took down one, and handed it to him; and,
what do you think?-he wanted me to ten him what
it was, when he had it in his own hands !-but I
wouldn't,-he pestered me with so many questions!"
I here suggested to the Doctor, that he shou1d ask
6
42
her whether she saw a fruit piece. He did so. "Oh
yes," was the reply. "That was the very picture I
took down and wouldn't tell him what it was."
This was correct. From what I could gather,
when she began examining the paintings, I supposed
she referred to a beautiful fruit piece by 'Vard, of
London.
The Doctor continued-" Mr. Stone told me there
was a painting over the side-board-what kind of -c
picture was that?"
"It was a la:ke, with mountains around it. I
thought it very beautiful."
Such is the fact. '{lhe picture is a charming moun-
tain landscape, the scene being a beautiful lake
among the Catskill mountains, by Hoxie.
" Well, what other pictures did you see ? What
is that picture which Mr. Stone told me was hanging
over the settee?"
"Oh, it was a curious picture. It represents three
Indians sitting in a hollow tree, which looks as
though it had been dug out on purpose. And the
tree is filled with marks." [Hieroglyphics.]
This was the most wonderful reply we had had
yet. The picture is a composition landscape, by
Hoxie, containing the portrait of the decaying trunk
of an enormous sycamore tree, standing in the neigh-
borhood of Montezuma, N.Y. The artist has intro-
duced a group of three Indians, and has likewise
traced a number of hieroglyphics within the open
trunk. These hieroglyphics are seldom noticed by
visitors, unless specially pointed out. And yet this
43
blind lady, with bandaged eyes, who had never been
in New-York, nor heard a whisper of the existence
of the picture, had discovered them ! 'l'he fact seems
not only incredible, but absolutely impossible. But,
as I believe, it is nevertheless true.
"Did you notice particularly any other pictures?
Mr. Stone told me he had several in his library, upon
which he set a high value. Did you see them ?"
"Yes."
" What were they?'~
Here she again became affected, as she replied-
" One of them was Christ in his agony, with a
Crown of Thorns !"
This reply was astounding. The picture is an ad-
mirable copy of the Ecce Homo by Guido. It had
only been sent home a week before, and I had cau-
tiously avoided mentioning it to my most intimate
friends present at this extraordinary interview, until
she thus proclaimed it.
" What other picture did you see in the library ?"
" There was a portrait of an Indian Chief."
This was another wonderful reply. The picture
is an admirable copy, by Catlin, of a capital portrait
of Brant, the Great Mohawk Warrior, which has
recently been procured, to be engraved for the forth-
coming life of that celebrated chieftain.
" How was he dressed?"
"Why, I can hardly describe it. His head was
shaved, and I don't know exactly whether there was
any hair left on or not. There was something on
the top, but I could scarcely tell whether it was hair."
44
This description was very accurate. The knot on
the crown is the scalp-lock; and the ·war-paint around
it, and something like a ribbon tying it, would ren-
der it doubtful to a superficial observer, unacquainted
with Indian customs and costumes, whether there
was any hair there or not.
" was there no other picture in the library?"
"Oh yes: he took out of a drawer, a miniature."
" Did it resemble the large picture?"
"I thought it did, somewhat."
[I believe I had put this question to her when she
was under my control.]
" How was it dressed ?"
" It was a very handsome picture, and had a cap
and plumes."
'!'his was another wonderful reply. The picture
in question is a very beautiful miniature likeness of
Brant, composed by N. Rogers, from two pictures of
the chief, taken when he was a young man, and first
in London-in his court dress. The picture is de-
signed to embellish the forthcoming work referred
to, and lies yet in the drawer, where it was seen and
described by Miss Brackett-blind-previously un-
conscious of its e-xistence-and two hundred miles
off when she saw it.
The Doctor now transferred the somnoloquist
back to me. Taking her hand again, quick as a flash
we were restored to the place and position occupied
at the moment of the Doctor's intervention. I re-
sumed the conversation, by asking her if she had ever
heard of Wall-street? She replied that she had not.
45
"You have heard. of the great fire in New-York?"
"Yes."
" Would you like to take n walk down there, and
see how it has been rebuilt, and where they are build-
ing the new Exchange ?"
"I should like to go there very much."
'I'he imaginary walk was immediately commenc-
ed. " Here," said I, " is Trinity Church-the oldest
in the city. Perhaps you would like to take a look
into it?"
She replied that it would afford her pleasure to do
so-adding, "but I guess you will be obliged to get
the doors open before we get in." I told her the sex-
ton would open them at once. " Come," I added,
" I will open the gate,-and there,-you see the doors
are opened."
The moment she had crossed the threshold, and
arrived at the inner door, she paused, and looking
half round, smiled, and, as it were, bit her lip.
"What attracts your particular attentionnow, Miss
Brackett?"
"I was looking at these awkward pews. I never
saw such inconvenient pews."
"What is the difficulty with them?"
11
Why, how they look !"
"But the richest people in New-York attend
Church here."
"'l'hen I should advise them to tear away these
old pews, and build new and better ones."
Now, it happens to be a fact, that the pews in this
46
church arc just the worst looking, and most incon-
venient, in the city.
" How do you like the pulpit?"
" I think it wants new drapery; only see how old
it looks. The cushion where they lay the Bible is
quite threadbare."
I have examined these draperies since my return,
and should advise the vestry of that church to take
the hint of the somnoloquist. The cushion is not ex-
actly "thread-bare," but the drapery of both the pul-
pit and the desk needs renewal
I asked her to look beyond the pulpit, and exa-
mine the sculpture. She did so, and was deeply in-
terested. But she did not describe it. I asked her
which figure she liked best? She answered the
standing figure. I inquired whether she understood
the design of the figure? She said she did. I am
not certain whether I told her that it was a monu-
mental structure, but I think I did say that the stand-
ing figure was a personification of Religion. How-
ever, she gave no evidence that she fully compre-
hended the work. I asked her how she liked the
lights behind? She replied very well, a'ld added
that she had never seen the light let in in that way
before.
On leaving the church, I suddenly remarked-
" why, Miss Brackett, after all, I omitted one thing
at my house, which I very much desire you should
see. In our little basement room-the little snugge-
ry where we breakfast-! have two pictures-one
very curious, which you must see. 1Vill you walk
47
back with me, and look at it? She replied in the
aHirmativc, and I immediately added-" well, here
we are." "That's likely," said she, playfully,-
" you have got there before I have started!" "Vcry
true," said I, " but I will come back and walk with
you." * * * "Now, :Miss Brackett,
we are here at all events."
"And is this your family breakfast-room?"
" It is."
" It is a nice little place."
"Now, :Miss Brackett, look at that picture, and
tell me what you think of it?"
She looked and began to smile, and was evidently
much amused. But, as before, she would give me
no description of either. Doctor Capron here o >-
served to me, that if I charged her particularly to
remember what she saw, she would do so, and tell
me about it when awake. I then remarked-" If
you will not tell me now, will you be careful to re-
member what you see-what pleases you so-and
tell me afterward?" She promised faithfully that
she would.
We had now been occupied nearly four hours, and
my engagements were such as to render it necessary
to bring my travels with this most interesting com-
panion to a close. I therefore prop<;>sed returning tO>
Providence, to which she assented.
" How will you go ?" I asked..
"We will fly."
cc Very well-I am used to that mode of travel-
ling." Clasping both my hands in hers, she went
48
through the same process of ascending into the air
by my assistance, as before.
" Oh, how beautiful it is," she exclaimed, "to look
down upon the city. How vast-how grand!" Lin-
gering a moment, as if hovering over the town, I di-
rected her attention to several objects-the land and
the water. "That dark mass of buildings is the
Bellevue Alms House. That high column is the
Shot-Tower--it is the highest structure on the isl-
and."
" And we are so much above that!" she inter-
rupted.
"Ah, here we have New-Haven."
" How beautiful !" she exclaimed. " Stop, I must
look at that. It is very beautiful."
"And this is New London-How are you pleased
with it?"
" I don't like its appearance very well."
"Nor does any body else," I replied.
" And here we are in Providence," I continued. I
then assisted her in descending, as from the first flight,
and asked her how she had been pleased with her ·
visit to New-York? She replied that she had been
exceedingly gratified-that she liked the route home
very much, as it was one she had never travelled
before.
Dr. Capron now again willed her away from me,
resumed his control, and by the peculiar mental pro-
cess of Animal Magnetism, together with a few
brushes of his hand over her forehead, awoke her.
She at first complained of being somewhat confused ;
49
but in the course of one or two minutes resumed her
self-possession, and was as cheerful, and intelligent,
and diffident, withal, as before she had been magnet-
ised. The Doctor had charged her to remember the
circumstances of her visit, and he now questioned
her respecting several incidents heretofore detailed
at large. Among others, he inquired again what was
the particular object that had attracted her atten-
tion, and seemed to annoy her, at the Bowling-Green
opposite the lions ? She blushed to the eyes, and said
she must be excused from answering.
He then asked her what was the picture in the
basement-room of my house, which seemed to please
her so much?
She laughed outright, as she replied-" It was a
funny looking fellow pulling a eat's ear."
This was another remarkable answer, affording a
still farther and most striking illustration of the mys-
terious power of this potent though unknown prin-
ciple. The picture in question is an old and admi-
rable painting, recently purchased by my friend, the
Rev. J. C. Brigham, and loaned to me. It had but just
been returned from the hands of the picture-framer,
and had not yet been hung in .the drawing-room.
Its existence, I am perfectly confident, was unknown
to any of the party present except myself; and the
subject, that of a sly, mischievous fellow, full of wick-
ed laughter, as he is teazing some antiquated lady
by pulling or pinching the ears of her favorite tabby!
Such were the results of this extraordinary inter-
view, and such the actual phenomena attending a
7
50
single nap of magnetic slumber, under circumstances
where every thing like ostentation, or a desire of dis-
play, or even of a private exhibition, was avoided;
and where, I repeat without hesitation, deception,
fraud, collusion, misunderstanding, and mistake, were
alike utterly impossible. I have written fully and
faithfully, omitting, as I believe, nothing essential to
a full illustration of the interview-preserving so
much of the very language used, as a practised and
pretty retentive memory has enabled me to recall-
giving the substance, where the identical language
is lost-and presenting a simple and unadorned nar-
rative of the truth throughout.
In the early part of this communication I have ad-
verted to the extraordinary power of this young la-
dy-blind though she be-of reading, while in the
magnetic slumber, letters within several envelopes,
without breaking the seals. This was a point to
which I likewise directed my attention, and circum-
stances occurred most opportunely to favor my de-
sign. On Sunday, Aug. 27th, while I was in Provi-
dence, and the day before my interview with Miss
Brackett, a small package was received by l\lr. Isaac
Thurber from :Mr. Stephen Covell, of Troy, contain-
ing, as he wrote to his friend, a note, which he.wish-
ed :Miss B. to read while under the magnetic influ-
ence, without breaking the seal, if she could. :Mr.
Covell had been induced to try this experiment, in
consequence of having heard of extraordinary per-
formances of the kind, which, of course, he doubted.
The package, or letter, was evidently composed of
51
several envelopes. The outer one consisted of
thick blue paper. On Sunday evening Miss B. was
put into a magnetic slumber, and the letter given her
with instructions to read it. She said she would take
it to bed with her and read it before morning.* On
Monday morning, she gave the reading as ~ollows :-
" NO OTHER THAN THE EYE OF OMNIPOTENCE CAN READ
THIS IN THIS ENVELOPEMENT, 1837."
I made a memorandum of this reading, and exa-
mined the package containing, as she said, the sen-
tence. She said then, viz. on Monday morning, that
there were one or two wqrds between the word "en-
velopement" and the date, as I understood her, which
she could not make out. I examined the seal with
the closest scrutiny. It was unbroken, and to open
the letter or to read it without opening, with human
eyes, was impossible. After my return to the city,
viz. on Wednesday, Aug. 30th. I addressed a letter
to Mr. Covell, to ascertain whether the reading ofthe
blind somnambulist was correct. The following is
his reply:
" TROY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1837.
''DEAR SIR,
"Your's ofyesterdayi received by this morning's
mail, and as to your inquiry relative to the package
submitted to Miss B. while under the magnetic influ-
* So I understood the matter at the time of the interview. By a statement of
Mr. Thurber himself, however, contained in the publication of Mr. Hartshorne,
it appears that the clairvoyante did not take it tolbed with her, but retired into a
dark room to make it out, from choice, and read it to Mr. Hopkins and anum-
ber of others, on her return.
52
ence, I have to say the package came to hand yes-
terday. rrhe sentence had been written by a friend,
and sealed by him at my request, and in such a man-
ner as was supposed could not have been read by
any human device without breaking the seal. We
think the -.eal~ ave not been broken until returned.
The sentence as read by Miss B. is :-" No other than
the eye of Om,nipotence can read this in this envelope-
ment-1837." · And as written in the original, on a
card, and another card placed on the face of the
writing, and enclosed in a thick blue paper, was :-
" No other than the eye of Omnipotence can read this
sentence in this envelope.--Troy, New- York, Aug.
1837."
"Respectfully yours, &c.
" Sr:l'EPHEN COVELL."
"WILLIAM L. SToNE, Esq."
I also left a note, hastily prepared, for the blind
lady to read, the contents of which were known only
to myself. It was carefully folded, so as to preclude
I
the possibility of reading it, by the natural sight,
without opening, and sealed with seven wafers and
two seals of wax, with my own private signet. By
the mail of the following Saturday I received the
letter; the seals were unbroken, and exactly in the
condition I had left them, with the answer written on
the outside, in the hand-writing of the friend who had
assisted me in obtaining the interview, which answer
is correct, as far as it goes. I have already remarked,
that I was in great haste at the time of preparing the
53
note, yet I was determined to leave something so
much out of the ordinary track as to puzzle the lady
if possible. Accordingly, having the odd title of a
queer old book in my pocket, printed in a small Italic
letter, I wrote a part of the note with a pencil, and
stuck on two and a half lines of the small Italic print-
ing, with a wafer. The note, written and printed, as
I left it, was in these words :-
" 'l'he following is the title, equally quaint and
" amusing, of a book which was published in Eng-
" land in the time of Oliver Cromwell:-' Eggs qf
" Charity, layed by the Chickens of the Covenant, and
" boiled by the waters of Divine love. Take ye and
" eat.'"
I subjoin the answer sent by Miss B. through an
intimate friend :-
" The following is a title, equally amazing (or
" amusing) and quaint, of a book published in Eng-
" land in the time of Oliver Cromwell:-
" Eggs of Charity"-
" Miss B. does not know whether the word is
"amazing or amusing. Something is written after
((the (eggs of charity,' which she cannot make out."
Why the clairvoyante did not :read the whole note
as readily as she did the part which she did read, I
am a loss to give an opinion. On a minute exami-
nation of the paper, I find that, accidentally, in fold-
ing it, there was one thickness of paper over the lines
which she did not read, more than over a portion of
what she did read. But the same additional thick-
ness of paper was over the first line 'vhich she did
f4
read, and the two thick wax seals, and a number of
wafer seals also, intervened over nearly the whole.
Those seals were strong and deep impressions of my
family crest, with the motto distinctly shown; and
the whole returned to me so perfect, and in every re-
spect entire, as at once to put at rest every suspicion
of foul play, had such suspicion been entertained.
I am perfectly aware, my dear Sir, that in allow-
ing the preceding statement, which is no more than
a simple and unadorned narrative of facts, to go forth
to the world, I am setting myself up as a target at
which scores of witlings and brisk fools will be sure
to let fly successive showers of arrows. Indeed, I
have already been assailed, from various quarters,
through the public journals, and in the conversations
of individuals, in consequence of a recent and very
partial and imperfect publication, announcing my vi-
sit to Providence and the experiments of the sealed
letters. The " Chronicle of the Church," published
at New-Haven, has arraigned me with grave severi-
ty as a convert to " humbuggery and mystification,"
and as an easy dupe in respect to transactions "bear-
ing upon their face the impress of gross imposition."
Other journalists have freely applied the phrase,
more expressive by far than elegant, that I have been
"outrageously humbugged." Others, again, have
plied me alternately with raillery and grave rebuke.
Well-be it so. However well stored may be their
quivers, and however thick and fast their missiles
may hurtle through the air, I should feel myself but
a sorry knight of the quill, to complain at receiving
5G
bac}{ a small portion of the change of which I have
dispensed so much, though I should be pierced like
another St. Sebastian. If I am correctly informed,
the editor of the Church Chronicle will soon find a
far abler exponent of the mysterious principle the
existence of which he decries,· than I can ever hope
to be, in the Bishop of his own diocese. Still, whe-
ther that distinguished prelate should take the field
or not, the facts recorded in this communication will
remain the same. Meantime your own reading must
have taught you, that neither theories nor principles
are the less philosophical or the less true, because of
unbelief or ridicule. The original projector of the
employment of steam for the movement of machine-
ry, was denounced as a lunatic for the suggestion,
and confined as a madman for persistence in his folly.
Galileo was twice imprisoned in the dungeons of the
Inquisition, by the learned doctors of Rome, for op-
posing the astronomical theories of Aristotle, and as-
serting, with Copernicus, that the sun remains sta-
tionary in the centre of the universe, while the earth
revolves around it in annual and diurnal motions.
And in your own profession, you cannot be ignorant
of the persecution of Harvey, the great medical revo-
lutionist, who discovered the circulation of the blood;
or of the fact that Jenner was at first denounced as.
a quack, for a discovery ·which has constituted him
one of the greatest benefactors of modern times.
Mistake me not as citing these illustrious names:
with a view of inscribing my own in the same cate-
gory. My object is merely to show, that scepticism, in.
56
regard even to the most valuable discoveries, is no new
thing under the sun; and that satire, however biting,
and ridicule, however pungent, although they may
deter the timid from the avowal of an honest opi-
nion until the world shall have decided for them, or
raise a laugh at the expense of those who march in
advance of the public voice, are nevertheless no
test of the soundness of a theory, the value of a dis-
covery, or the correctness of a principle. "What I
know to be true, that will I declare; and what I feel
it to be my duty to represent, that will I have the
boldness to publish;" was a memorable manifesto of
the late Timothy Pickering when about to make cer-
tain political revelations ; and I know nothing to de-
ter the exercise of a like degree of moral courage, in
giving utterance to facts connected with the philoso-
phy of the human mind, involving the phenomena of
ordinary sleep, dreaming, and somnambulism,-the
independence of our spiritual nature of the bodily or-
gans which subserve the purposes of the present life,
-and, in one word, eliciting new and enlarged views
of the perceptive faculties of the mind and the na-
ture of the soul.
Were it my desire to enlarge upon this subject, or
rather, were it not my design to confine the present
communication strictly to a narrative of facts trans-
piring under my own eyes, I might easily fill a hun-
dred pages more with incidents and illustrations of
the most surprising character, which have occurred
at Providence and in its vicinity within the last few
months, in the course of the experiments that have
57
been made-as well attested, too, as the battle of
Bunker Hill or the Declaration of Independence.
'rhese facts might be gathered by hundreds, from the
most authentic sources-arising, not from two or
three cases of nervous, debilitated, and practised fe-
males, nor under the auspices of one, or even two,
magnetisers,-but in the course of hundreds of ex-
periments, upon as many subjects, of different ages
and sexes, under the care of gentlemen of the first
character-lay and professional. One example only,
of the many to which I refer, will be added at the
close of this communication. The case was very re~
markable, and the circumstances created a deep sen-
sation when they transpired in Providence-support-
ed, as they were, by the testimony of so able and ex-
emplary a physician as Dr. Brownell.
In regard to the imputation, that a gross imposture
has been played off upon me, I will not detain you
by its refutation. I have already said, repeatedly,
that the character of all the parties to the interview
forbids the idea of fraud, collusion, or imposture. It
surely will not be contended that I shall prove what
I saw and assisted in performing. The strongest evi-
dence possible, and the most convincing to an indi-
vidual, is that of his own senses. "When awake,
and in our perfect mind," says Dr. Beattie, "we ne-
ver mistake a reality for a dream. Realities are per-
ceived intuitively. We cannot prove by argument,
that we are now awake, for we know of nothing
more evident to prove it by; and it is essential to
every proof to be clearer than that which is to be
s
58
proved."* I will not, therefore, distrust the evidence
of my own senses, where all the circumstances were
such as to render deception impossible. The weight
of other testimony depends upon the character of the
witnesses for truth and veracity, and their means of
know:Jedge of the facts related, and their exemption
from such interests and motives as might sway them
from the truth. These are the important attributes
of evidence ; and witnesses sustaining such a charac-
ter, are entitled to full credit. Such was the charac-
ter of the parties with whom I was in communica-
tion during my visit to Miss Brackett. What I saw,
I know to be true; and what was told to me as truth
by Dr. Capron, Miss Brackett, and t}J.ose of her
friends with whom I conversed, I as fully believe.
There are those who disbelieve in the principle of
Animal Magnetism altogether, and who would not
believe though one rose from the dead. They con-
tend that the whole thing is morally and physically
impossible. There are others who are incredulous
because the experiments are not attended by uniform
success. Such is, doubtless, the fact, as the magneti-
sers admit, for causes assigned which are abundantly
sufficient. There is yet another class, who are not
only disbelievers themselves, but are determined that
the science shall not prevail. These, instead of act-
ing like ingenuous searchers after truth, attend the
exhibitions for the express purpose of defeating the
operations, by interposing obstacles, embarrassing
• Elements of Moral Science, Sec. viii. ; , 156.
59
alike to the magnetiser and the subject. In order
to a successful experiment, perfect composure and
tranquility of mind, in both magnetiser and sub-
ject, are understood to be necessary, if not absolutely
indispensable. If, then, objectors and sceptics visit
an exhibition for the express purpose of passing off
deceptions upon the illustrators of the principle,-
intentionally distracting their attention and inter-
rupting their mental operations-the want of success
under such circumstances is no argument against the
science; and only proves that the objectors are no
gentlemen. Again, there are those who fear to be-
lieve, lest an argument shall be derived from the ad-
mitted existence of the magnetic influence, against
the mira~es sustaining the divine origin of the Chris-
tian religion; whereas, in my apprehension, the
very reverse is the fact; since, if testimony like that
to which I have referred, is to be rejected, where are
we to look for the proofof those very miracles? Would
not the sceptic, by the adopt.ion of such a rule, bring
himself upon the identical ground assumed by Hume,
who disbelieves all the evidence of miracles, upon
the principle that we cannot believe any thing con-
trary to our own experience? Lam aware, however,
that others think differently. Indeed, an intimate
friend of my own, on reading the preceding narrative,
observed to me, "Were I to believe in the reality of
what you have written, I should become an infidel."
Now, the scruples of such are doubtless to be respect-
ed. But I must repeat, I can perceive no good foun-
dation for them. "How common," says Knight, in his
60
TVayu:ard C?·iticisnz,s, " when we have just spoken and
thought ofa person, to see him immediate!yafterward.
If it be even more than casualty, is it unphilosophical
to suppose that there may be a certain attractive,
although invisible emamition, not unlike that of the
magnetic, electric, gravid, or cohesive influence; each
emanation being peculiar to, and characteristic of,
each individual, coming from the body into the air,
which prompts the forethought?" And is it any more
unphilosophical to believe in the activity of the hu-
man soul during the suspension of the external senses
by that species ofslumber, equally peculiar and pro-
found, produced by the magnetical influence, the ex-
istence of which, to a greater or less degree, I take
it for granted can no longer be denied by any one ?
We know that somnambulism, or the faculty of loco-
motion, of speaking, of holding conversations with
others, and even of sustaining an argument, does ex-
ist. Of this fact, the Rev. 1\'lr. Finney, whom you
probably know, affords a striking example. Why,
then, should we deny the possibility of the unusual
physiological phenomena attributed to the influences
of Animal Magnetism, acting upon persons of pe-
culiar ne1·vous susceptibilities? Why deny to the soul
the faculty of recognizing external objects through
unusual ways, without the help of the senses, and of
annihilating time and space in its movements ? Or
why deny to the etherial spirit, when in such a state,
the power of visiting, in its imagination, other climes
and other spheres, for its amusement, its wonder, or
its instruction? Is it more wonderful than the trance
61
of Tennant, whose spirit, without controversy, did
thus leave its tenement of clay, and behold things
more glorious than that holy man dared to describe?
But I am transcending the purpose of this communi-
cation, and will forbear.
After all, my dear Sir, I am not without apprehen-
sion that you may yet inquire of me, what is my own
belief upon the subject? The question would be a
poser. I cannot deny the evidence of my own sen-
ses, and therefore I must believe in something. But
how much to believe, or what, I am puzzled to tell.
Fraud, deception, imposture, I once more repeat, in
the matters I have related, lvere entirely out of the
question. On the whole, therefore, I must end as I
began, by quoting the sage conclusion of Hamlet, al-
beit his brains were zig-zag, that there are more
things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in
our philosophy.
I am, with respect, &c. &c.
WILLIAM L. STONE.
To DocT. AMARIAH BRIGHAM, M.D.
POSTSCRIPT .
l·.r was the purpose of the author, in presenting a second edition
of the preceding letter to the public, to record a few additional
facts, connected with this interesting subject, equally wonderful,
and in some respects e'ven more so, than those already de-
tailed. A brief reply to some of the criticisms that have
been made upon this pamphlet by a portion of the daily
press, had also been meditated. But t~e first edition, of two
thousand, has gone off so rapidly, and the demand for the second
is so pressing, that the design has in both respects been relinquish-
ed. One only of the criticisms referred to will the author stop to
correct. The editor of the American, in his liberal notice of the
first edition, seems to suppose that the only subjects of the mag-
netic influence are females. This, in the full extent of the posi-
tion, is an error. It is doubtless true, that, as a general rule, the
female system is more susceptible of this mysterious influence
than the male. But such is not uniformly the case. Several in.
stances have occurred in Rhode Island, particularly in Pawtucket,
in which robust men have been effectually magnetized. The
operator at Pawtucket is Mr. Daniel Green, a man of respectabil-
ity, who, from what I can learn, is capabfe of exercising a greater
magnetic power than any other gentleman who has yet attempted
an experiment. I can also state, that, on the evening of Tuesday,
the 3d day of October instant, Mr. Grant, of Providence, then and
now giving experiments in the city of Albany, put a healthy young
man into a profound slumber, in the midst of a crowded auditory,
and contrary to his own counteracting efforts. I was in Albany at
the time. The Governor, and several Senators and other distinguish-
ed gentlemen, were present. The young man was a sceptic upon the
64
su0ject, and challenged the operator to a trial of his power, which,
in ten minutes, was not only irresistible, but so powerful, that the
subject was, in the end, thrown into convulsions. The experiment
was not only convincing to himself, but, as I happen to know, to
several gentlemen of education and character, who were unbe-
lievers when they went to the exhibition.
Several very striking illustrations of somnambulism and clairvoy.
ance, or clear-sightedness, when in a state ofmagnetic slumber, were
also given at Albany on the same, and also the preceding evening.
Among them was an imaginary journey, performed by the niece of
1\fr. Grant, in company with one of the Senators, to visit his own
family at the place of their temporary residence, (Norwich, Con.)
The house in which his family were lodged is very peculiar in its
construction, having, among other eccentricities of ilrchitecture,
three front doors, all of which were exactly described, with various
other features and circumstances, and in the absence of leading
questions.
Another very striking case occurred at Saratoga Springs, at
which place Messrs. Grant and Potter were experimenting last
weelf. A gentleman, an entire stranger, came into the room, and
asked the magnetized lady to visit his house in Plattsburgh. She
did so-described the place-the house-its apartments and furni-
ture, not only with general, but very minute accuracy. Among
other inmates of the family, she astounded the gentleman by
describing his aged father-in-law, who has but one arm! Collusion
or imposture, in this case, was entirely out of the question, and
the fact cannot be contradicted.
I am in possession of a variety of other surprising facts, but
have not yet permission to publish them with that particularity
which I could desire. Meantime I beg leave to introduce the fol-
lowing article from the Boston Morning Herald, of September
29th ; premising that I was in Providence at the time of the visit
of the two medical gentlemen referred to from Boston, and have
no doubt, from what I learned on the spot, of the essential accu.
racy of the statement here given. The statement of Miss Brack-
ett's ideal visit to the hall of the Franklin Society was also re-
65
lated to mo in Providence, in a such a manner as to leave no
doubt of its substantial truth :-
"ANIMA!. MAGNETis~r.-Strong and Jncontrovcrt·ible Testimony !-Many
may think that enough has been said upou this disputed subject, and tum away
in disgust from any further discussion; especially will those be apt so to think,
who, on account of the apparent absurdity of the matter, pronounce it to be a
complete humbug, and consider themselves insulted, to have conversation or
written argument upon it thrust into their faces. So was our decision once-
but while we cannot believe so strange a theory until we have had the demon-
stration of our own senses to its truth, we are forced, by the weight of incon-
trovertible testimony, to be silent and refrain from scoffing, until the 'perfect
day' of the revelation of its existence or falsehood shall dawn upon us.
vVe present the following new facts to the public, and our readers may be-
lieve or not. We will only s'ly, that when it comes to bold denial of a sup-
posed honest man's assertion, m·gument is useless-but to those who arc not
willing to think that a man who has ever proved himself true, will at once
falsify, the following relation will at least surprise, for what we have to say is
reduced to this-Will you believe our witness or not 1
vVe hope we are not taking an unwarrantable liberty in mentioning the
name of the individual, from whom the particulars below given are denved.
Since the subject is an all-important one, a solemn one if it be true, an exciting
one at any rate, we feel confident that he will be willing to have his testimony
held up, a light set on a hill, as a guide to the searchers of the truth. We refer
to Rev. Mr. 'Hall of Providence.
A short time since, two physicians of this city, Drs. J. & W., went to
Providence, in order, by then· own senses, to be convinced. They have re-
turned, not [ttlly sat·isfied. They are confident of some strange effect produced
-of the existence of the magnetic sleep- but were not able to content them-
selves in respect to the wonderful magnetic vision of distant or concealed ob-
jects. We will state the assigned cause.
The patient is Miss Brackett of Providence, who is, and has been long, to-
tally bl'ind,-of course, unless there is actual communication with her, to inform
her of the existence or position of the objects or places she describes, her testi-
mony is of the very strongest nature-it is adamant proof. The examination
took place in the house of Rev. Mr. Hall.
Previous to questioning the patient, Mr. Hall took the physicians into a back
parlor, in which were no chairs, and disarranged some articles, one of which
was, to take a picture down from the wall, and lay it with its face on the table.
The three gentlemen then returned to the room in which Miss Brackett, who
had been magnetised, was sleeping. One of the physicians first questioned
her, but almost at the outset, he said, after going with her in spirit into the
room,-' Take care, or you will stumble over the chairs and beds. The other
physician then went with her to some house or o(her in a distant town, and
said-' Be careful, or you will hit your head against the ~ate;' and he could
not make her speak after. Now the case is, taking the prem1ses for granted that
'such things are,' those who are sleeping are, in their perceptions, in reality
standing with you beside an object which you wish them to describe-and it is
often an answer to inquiries, ' What do :you ask for-you can see as well as I
can.' It is evident, then, that much caut1on and tact must be exercised to pro-
cure the necessary information. No trifling will be submitted to-and there-
fore it was, when the physicians referred to articles which they knew were not
there, that the patient became offended.
The physicians having retired, Mr. Hall, Miss B. being still in her sleep, led
her inspirit, into the back room again, and after asking her what she saw, she
mentioned, among the first things, 'a picture lying on the table on its face'-
and added, 'I will speak with you, Mr. Hall, for you treat mt> properly, but J
. . 9
66
would not have any thing to say to that other gentleman, for he laughed at me.
H e knew as well as I, tltat the1·ewere no ckairs 01· beds in the room!'
From another occasion, Mr. H all furnishes otill stron!ier testimony. There
is, in Providence, a room, occupied by the Franklin Soc1ety. This Society is
a private one, with few members, and but few know of the occupancy of the
room. In it are sundry matters, such as a case of stuffed birds, a stuffed cat,
gray squirrel, &c., a preserved turtle, and other curiosities of the like kind.
Mr. H all went to the room, unlocked it, took some lamps from the stove, which
was in the centre of the room, and placed on it the turtle-and then returned,
locking the door, and putting the key in his pocket. He then, without com-
munication with mortal being, went directly to Miss Brackett, whom he had
requested previously to have magnetised, turned the magnetiser from the room,
and went with the patient, of course i"!' spirit, to the room of the Societr. As
soon a:s they were m the room, the patient started. 'Why do you start? asked
Mr. Hall. ''\Vhy, don't you see, look on the stove there in the centre of the
room. l t 7Vill bite me !' ' Bite ?-go closer-it won't bite.' She then seemed to
smile at discovering the foolishness of her fears. ''\Vhat is it?' asked Mr.
Hall. 'You can see as well as I,' was her answer. 'Yes-but I wish to know
what you call it. Is it ever eaten? 'Yes-a part of it-in soup.' '\Veil,
what do you call it?' ' A tu1·tle, to be sure!' _
Mr. Hall then led her to the bird case·, and asked her what she saw. Shere-
turned much the same answer as before--but said, evidently taking down the
birds and looking at them-' How pretty this is. What a bright riug round its
neck! Oh, here is a dear little bi·rd !'
She soon started again. 'What is the matter now ?' asked Mr. Hall.
'Why,' said she, 'only see that cat-that's a pretty place to put a cat, in the
midst of birds !'
'Oh,' said she, 1
here is something in the corner like a rabbit. '\Vhat is it?'
Mr. Hall had not observed it when in the room, and could not answer. He
left her, convinced that if there was any thing there, he should feel satisfied-
if not, all was uncertainty again. He hurried to the room, unlocked it, and
went in, and found in one corner, a stuffed grey squirrel!
We present the above to the consideration of the public. Of Mr. Hall's ve-
racity there can be no doubt. What disposal then is to be made of it? Time
alone can reveal the end."
The following statement, also related to me as a fact in Provi.
dence, has since been published by Dr. Hartshorn, of that city,
on the authority of Mr. Benjamin Cozzens and l\Ir. Joseph
Balch, Jun.:-
"A child, about nine years of age, atte~dingt~e ~chool ofMiss S***, i!' this
city, was, about a month ago, durmg an mtern11sswn, found to be sleep 111 the
school-room. One of the young scholars came and gave information. Miss
S*** and others tried to rouse her, but not succeeding, they became alarmed.
A young medical student, a son of Commodore John Orde Creighton, being
called in, soon perceived that she was in a magnetic sleep. A little girl about
ten years old immediately bur~t into tears. It was evi~ent. that she ~ad done
it· but she was so much ternfied at the result of the nnschief, that Miss S•**
c;lled her into another room, soothed her distress, and told her she need not be
frightened ; she bad only to go to Anne, and ask her to wake up. This was
done. She merely spoke to her, and she came out of her magnetic state, with
that smile upon her visage which is peculiar to those who are gently roused
from it.
The child bad been, once 'before, and only once, put into the somnambulic
state. It was effected in about five minutes, ·by a lady who had neYer before
tried her hand at this busine.ss."
G7
In a preceding page of this Postcript, I have referred to some
still more recent illustrations of these phenomena, the particulars of
which I am not at liberty to record, although of a very striking
character. The truth is, there is a lamentable want of moral cou-
rage in the community, which prevents gentlemen from admitting
facts, which from their own positive knowledge they know to be
such, lest they should encounter the ridicule, and the small wit
of the little minds which control but too large a portion of the
public press. I am not to be thus deterred, however, from speak.
ing out upon this, or any other subject, by the taunts, or the sneers,
of any one. All I ask is fair play-and this I expect to receive
from all controversialists who are gentlemen. "'When editors and
critics arc so stupid as to misunderstand what is said, or so mali-
cious and unprincipled as to misquote and misrepresent an an.
tagonist, there is no dealing with such. Nothing is easier than to
assume a position for an author whom it is wished to assail, which
he has never assumed, and then to overthrow it. Nothing is
easier than to assert for an antagonist what he has never asserted,
and then refute the assertion. And of course it is equally easy to
hold a man up to ridicule, for language or opinions he has never
uttered. All this treatment I have received from the stupid malice
of the Journal of Commerce, the vapid loquacity of the Express,
and the ill-natured perversions of a writer in the Courier and En.
quirer. While these sheets arc passing through the press, how-
ever, a more sensible and respectful writer has appeared in the
Journal of Commerce, whom it may be well to set right upon his
main objection to my original narrative. He says:-
"The eat's ears and other things which after a great deal of
effort Miss B. was induced to mention in Col. Stone's picture,
were probably only the reflection of the description he had given
of them in her presence ; but in the full conviction that she could
hear no conversation except that addressed to herself, and that so
the circumstance was of no consequence in the story."
Some other critics have assumed the same position-which
shows either that they have not read my letter with attention, or
that they purposely misrepresent me. I have said, expre11sly, that
in regard to the examination of three of those pictures, which I
68
had reserved as the principal tests, I had held no conversa.
tion with either or any of the party present at the examination.
In regard to the Ecce Homo of Guido, and the portrait of Brant,
and also of the cat, I was particularly careful that not a soul should
know of their existence, but myself, until the somnambulist de.
scribed them.
A few words more : Since this second edition was put to press, I
have been present at two private exhibitions of somnambulism by
Mrs. Andros, from Providence. One of them was on Friday night
last. It was at about nine o'clock in the evening, that a clerical
friend called at my residence, in behalf of another friend, who is
a physician, and who has been in great distress for many months
·past, by a grievous nervous affection. His object was, to ascer-
tain whether there be any virtue in animal magnetism, as assert.
ed by its professors, for a disease like his. I called immediately
with the gentleman who came with the message, upon Mr. and
Mrs. Andros. The latter was thrown into apparent sleep, where.
upon I requested her to visit my sick friend, and describe his
case-telling her that neither of us knew the number of the house.
Mr. Andros here remarked that that would make no difference.
And it was even so. She went in imagination to the house-de.
scribed its exterior correctly-but did not describe correctly the
next house adjoining. I asked her to enter. She did so, and
described the stair-way exactly, although I attempted to mislead
her upon that subject. I then asked her to walk into the drawing.
room. This I supposed to be entirely unfurnished,-as it was naked
when I had last seen it. I .asked her to say what was in the
room. She replied-a pier.table, cenh·e.table, chairs, a portrait, and
a very beautiful carpet. I then told 1\fr. Andros that his wife was
entirely wrong. My friend, however, said he believed they were
putting in the furniture the day before. Mrs. Andros was positive,
particularly in regard to the carpet. She was right as to that
article, and wrong as to the others. She then ascended the
stairs, entered the sick room, and described the situation, the pecu.
liar disease, and the extraordinary sufferings of my sick friend
with great minuteness, much emotion, and surprising accuracy.
She was wrong, however, in saying that he was sitting up in a
69
cushioned chail', he being at the time on the bed, ns I have since
ascertained.
One case more: On Monday morning, the 9th of October in·
stant, Mr. Andros called, and requested me to meet my friend Dr.
C***** at his rooms, at 12 o'clock. A few minutes after he had
gone, Dr. C****"' himself called, and renewed the request. He
told me, with gl'eat emphasis, that I was the victim of imposition
-that it was all nonsense-that thel'e was no reality in this new
system of Animal .Magnetism-and assured me, that if I would go
with him, in ten minutes he would prove to me that it was quackery
and moonshine. His object, he said, was to take her upon an
ideal visit to a patient of his, a few miles in the country. The
case, he added, was so marked and extraordinary, that there could
be no mistake upon the subject. Under these circumstances I
made the visit. The Doctor was particularly careful not to in.
dicate to any one the nature of the case or the location. There
were present at the trial, four gentlemen besides the Doctor,
l\frs. Andros, and myself. Mrs. A. having been magnetised, Dr.
C. took her hand, and for the first time mentioned the village in
which the patient resided whom he wished to visit. But he gave
no intimation as to the location of the house, the sex of the pa-
tient, or the character of the disease. In less than five minutes
the somnambulist said she was there. Her description of the ex.
terior of the house, however, was at first incorrect ; but substan.
tially correct as to the interior; and afterward, on a re-examina.
tion of the premises, she described the house with general accuracy.
But this was not the main feature of the experiment, which was
the description of the case itself. And in this, which involved a
complication of tlte disease of scrofula, embracing a large tumor upon
one side, severe lameness, the contraction of a limb, 4'c. 4'c., the
Doctor frankly declared that she astounded him by describing it as
well as he could have done it himself. In the afternoon I visited
the patient with Dr. C*****, and had ocular demonstration of the
truth of the description of Mrs. Andros. Here, again, was a case
where collusion, fraud, and imposition were out of the question.
And here, too, it is to be particularly noted, that there was an
entire absence of leading questions. On the contrary, in order to
70
avoid the possibility of collusion, Dr. C***** had given Mr. An.
dros in the morning to understand that his patient was in a differ·
ent village, lying in a different direction ; and while Mrs. Andros
was describing the case, he endeavored to mislead her as to the
seats of the several strong and unequivocal developements of the
disease. I leave it with the public.
WILLIAM L. STONE.
New-York, Oct. 10, 1837.
'
APPENDIX.
No. I.
The following statements arc copied from the Appendix to Hartshorne's recent
edition of Delcuze. The extraordina•·y medical case occurred under tho
eye and care of Dr. Brownell of Providence, the Somnambulist being another
lady-not Miss Brackett. Its strict truth cannot be questioned:-
In order to prove whether a somnambulist can really visit a place where he has
never before been, and describe the present appearance of things there, the Rev,
E. B. Hall went, without the knowledge of any one, into the room in which the
Franklin Society deposit their curious collection, and disarranged several con-
spicuous articles. He then went to confer with a young woman who resides at
the distance of half a mile from the house occupied by the Franklin Society, and.
~he being in the magnetic state, he sent her into it in spirit without informin~
her of the disarrangement he had made. She had previously been sent there in
the same state, so that she knew immediately what alterations had been made,
and stated .them so satisfactorily as to establish the fact investigated. This is
only one out of many proofs which might be adduced to the same effect.
Still the suspicion very naturally remained, that the somnambulist derives all
his notions from the mind of the person in communication, which, though it he
an astounding circumstance, would induce us to view the subject in an entirely
different licrht. To try this, I one day put an old spike into a gun-barrel, and
placed it about four or five feet from my writing desk against the wall. I then
sent a note to Dr. Brownell, who was then with one of his patients in the som-
nambulic state, requesting him to ask her what was in a gun-barrel lying on
my desk. The lad who carried the note did not know its contents, and did
not go into the house, but came back immediately: in about thirty minutes,
a line came from Dr. Brownell, stating that there was no gun-barrel on my
desk; but that there was one leaning against the wall a short distance from it.
Other facts affording similar proofs are abundant. It is proper to state that the
gun-barrel had probably never been in the room before.
A still more interesting proof is exhibited in th~ followin~ relation; which, I
am authorized to say, is true in all its important facts, and is known to have
created a great sensation at the time. Fortllnately the witnesies are gentle-
men of high standing and of scientific attainments, whose words are the cur-
rency of truth. The relation is extracted from a long and interesting article in
the Salem Gazette.
"Dr. Brownell, of Providence, operated upon a young lady, who, during
the period of magnetic sleep, frequently left the body, and could see and hear
without the aid of eyes or ears. She could tell correctly the time by a watch,
though enveloped in a cloth, and at the same time having a bandage over her
eyes. The doctor had a patient, sick, as was believed, of the liver complaint,
and bade the girl, who was sitting near him, go (in spirit) to the man's house.
Arrived, she, at the doctor's request, described the house that there might be no
mistake, and then entered. What do you see 1 asked Dr. B. ' A man sick.'
Now I want you to tell me what ails him. First. look at his head: is' that-
72
well 7 'Ycs.' Dow do you know 7 Do you mean to say that you sec
the internal organization 'I 'Yes.' Is the liver, heart, &c. well? 'Yes; it
looks just the_same as y~mrs, or anybody's else.' \Vell, do you see any thing
wron" 1 •1 es, there ts an enlargement of the spleen.' Several questions
werethen put to confuse her, and also to ascertain if she knew what the spl~en
was, and where situated; to all which she gave satisfactory replies. Still the
doctor was incredulous. But now comes the proof. In four days the man died,
and Dr. B. having obtained permission to institute a post-mortem examination,
called on every physician in the city, and narrated the story of the air!. In
presence of several of them the body was subsequently opened, when,"'to their
surprise, the girl was right- all that ailed the man was an enlargement of the
spleen.
What shall we say to this fact 1 It is substantiated beyond the possibility of
a doubt, as may be learned by any one passing through Providence. Shall we
set it down among the list of curious coincidences, or admit that the girl ac-
tually possessed a supernatural sense of vision, and that for the time being, her
immortal spirit, released from the body, roved freely and at the will of the
operator?
As in the state of visi011, the fact is no more strange, than in the well-attested
case of the famed Springfield somnambulist. Now, if we admit that the soul in
this case saw without the aid of eyes, why not admit that, in certain states of
the nervous system, othe>· senses or faculties of the mind may also act independent-
ly of their material organs? vVe know the soul thus exists after death, and why
not in the state of temporary death caused by animal magnetism? vVhat know
we of the nature of that deathless spark within us? And if we allow that it
may, without the body, enter the next room, we cannot deny the possibility that
it may in the same manner annihilate time and space, and travel hundreds of
miles as easily and as quickly as it can so many feet.
But some say, we cannot believe that God has given such a dangerous power
to the human will. It is out of the common order of nature ; it is a miracle ;
we cannot believe it. But who can set bounds to the dominion of the human
will. Man- before the steady gaze of whose eye the forest king trembles and
flees; whose power extends to the huge dwellers in ocean's unfathomed infi-
nite; man-at whose nod the giant oak, which for centuries has braved hea-
ven's thunderbolts, fall~; prostrate, and rises again in beauty to adorn his mansion ;
who lays his will upon the everlasting rock and it becomes as wax; whose high-
way is earth, and air, and ocean; whose servant is the lightning; whose intel-
lect spans earth and encircles heaven- thinking, reasoning, godlike man-who
can set bounds to the untried power of his mysterious will? ·who say to it, 'thus
far shalt thou come and no farther?'
Now, though in the above-mentioned cases, our will operates through more
tangible means, the facts, were they not so common, are as wonderful as the al-
leged fact that this same mighty agent operating through the nervous system, pro-
duces all the wonders of animal magnetism. If actual experiment demonstrates
the fact, fools may laugh but wise men believe; and believing, bow down and
adore with deeper reverence that Great Being from whose almighty will these
millions of human wills emanated."
On readina this communication," say Mr. Hartshorne, "whieh nearly accord-
ed with whatI had heard stated, I conversed with Dr. B., wh•>, is one of our
oldest physicians, and asked him whether the statement there made was cor-
rect. He replied that it was, in substance; but some of the particulars were
imperfectly stated. He gave me the following account.
The patient lived more than a quarter of a mile from my house. I requested
a somnambulist, then at my house, to see if she could find such a man, at the
same time pointin" out to her the situation of the house, which was not in sight
from the room wh~re we continued all the time. She saw him. On being asked
in what room, she replied, in the third room back from the street. She was then
requested to describe the ~ituation of the furniture in it, in order to di8cover
73
whether she had aot into the right place, and whether her clauvoyance m1ght be
trusted to at that time; she described it very exactly.
I then told her my patient had been sick a long time, and desired her to exa-
mine him, and tell what the disease was.
She said, "He looks so bad, I do not like to do it." I replied, "Never mind
that; it looks bad to you, because you have not been accustomed to looking at
the interior of a body."
As [ supposed him to be. affected with a diseased liver, and with indigestion
arisina from a diseased state of the stomach, I asked her to look at the stomach
to see"if that was diseased; she answered, "No."
Is the liver diseased 1 "No.''
Well, examine the whole intestinal canal, and see if there is any disease there.
"I do not see any," said she.
Examine the k1dneys. "Nothing is the matter with them."
Not knowing what other part to call her attention to, I requeeted her to look
at every part of him.
After some little time, she says, "His spleen is swelled; it is enlarged."
His spleen! said I; when we speak of a person who is spleeny, we suppose
he has an imaginary complaint. What do you mean 1
She said, "The part called the spleen, is enlarged.''
How do you know it is enlarged 1
"It is a great deal larger than yours.''
Do you see mine? ..-Yes."
How large is his spleen 1
"It is a. great deal longer and thicker than your hand."
I then asked her to put her hand where the spleen i• situated. She imme-
diately placed her hand over the region of the spleen.
I then asked her what shape the stomach was: she replied that it was like a
flower in the garden. I was not acquainted with that flower, and do not recol-
lect the name she gave to it.
I then requested her to recollect all about this, saying I wished to talk with
her about it when she awoke.
After she came out of the somnambulic state, she was asked whether she re-
membered having examined the sick person. She remembered it.
What part did you tell me was diseased 1 After a little consideration, she
replied, " I believe I told you the spleen is enlarged.''
How came you to call 1t the ~pleen 1
"I do not know.''
Did you ever hear any description of the internal organs, or see any plates of
them? "No.''
Should vou know the plate repreRenting the stomach, ifyou were to see it 1
"I thinli. I should if it looked fike it.''
I will go into the library and bring out some plates, to see whether you know
the internal organs.
While I was gone into the library, she said to a fady present, "Every once in
a while I saw fluids pass from his stomach into his bowels.''
On returning with the volume of plates, in order to ascertain wheth_er she
really distinguished the different organs, I showed her a plate somewhat re~em­
bling the stomach, and asked her if that was what she saw for the stomach 7
She said, "No." Turning to several plates in succession, she declared that
neither of them resembled the stomach.
Then turning to the true plate, as if accidentally, while throwing open the
leaves, intending to pass it by unless she noticed it, she immediately cried out,
"That's it; that's what I saw for the stomach."
I then conversed with her in relation to the other viscera.; and she gave a very
correct description of th~m, as she had done in her sleep. 1 asked her if she had
~onversed upon the subJeCt, or seen any plates of the mternal organs. She de-
~tlared she never had.
)0
74
~even days after this, the patient was taken more lleriously ill, and died on
Saturday, the third day following.
On Monday, a post-mortem examination took place; previous to which I invit-
ed all the physicians whom I could find in the city.
Eighteen persons were present, of whom sixteen were physicians.
I then stated all the particulars of the examination by the somnamhulic'patient ·
and requested the physicians to examine the bod_v to see if they could discove~
the diseased spleen from external examination. They, with one voice, declared
they could not.
I then opened the body, and, to the utter astonishment of the physicians pre-
se~t, fo_und the spleen so enlarged as to weigh fifi!J-swm o11nces. Its usual
wetaht ts from jD'I£1' to six ounces.
i'fo other disease wa~ perceptible except a general inflammation, which, no
doubt, came on about three days before his death.
No. II.
In regard to the power of Mr. Green, of Pawtucket, mentioned
in the Postscript a few pages back, the following correspondence
between Doctors Hartshorn and \Vebb, of Providence, is taken
from the Appendix of Hartshorn's edition of Peleuze :-
"Providence, August 25tl, 1837.
Sm,-In the Practical Instruction in Animal Magnetism, which I am now
publishing in English, the author mentions the power that some magnetizers
have of paralyzing the limbs of a patient in the magnetic state. But the in-
stance which yon recently related to me is so much more extraordinary, that I
wish to obtain from you in writin!;, a statement of the facts in relation to it,
with permission to make use of it w a note. I shall esteem it a valuable addi-
tion to the authentic matter to be embraced in the Appendix of each number of
that work. Yours, respectfully,
T. C. HARTSHORN.
DR. THOMAS H. WEBB."
"Pnrvidence, September 1, 1837.
DEAR Sta,-My time has been so much occupied of late, as to have rendered
it impossible for me, until the present moment, to reply to your note ofthe 25th
ult., and even now I am so circumstanced as to be unable to do more than
write a very brief reply.
In conversation with Mr. Daniel Greene, of Pawtucket, who, as you proba-
bly wei\ kno~, is the mos~ pO\yerfu_l, as he has been the most _extensive, mag-
netizer m thts country, I mqmred tf he were able to magnettze and thereby
obtain control over a si1tgle lirn.b, 1Vltilst tlte rest of tlte body rem12ined in a nat'll.-
ral state. He said that he had done it, in the case of Miss J., with whom you
are acquainted, and would attempt it on another patient that we were going to
see that afternoon, if reminded of it. . . .
The individual alluded to had never been magnetized but three umes, and dtd
not present a very striking exemplification of the usual magnetic phenomena.
After trying various e1:penments that consumed several hours, we left the house,
having forgotten the ~ubject matter of my interrogatory. But upon recollecting
75
it, we returned, and the patient resented herself upon being requested so to do,
without any reason being given her for makin~ the request.
Mr. Greene then went through the usual mampulations some dozen or twenty
times, confining them to the space reaching from the top of the left shoulder, to
the extremities of the lingers on the same stde. He afterwards requested her to
raise the left hand to the head. She said she could not. There was evidently
a powerful effort made to do this, as was shown by the working ofthe muscles
inserted into the upper portion of the shoulder; but the limb remained power-
less and motionless, not obeying the dictates ofthe owner's will. She was ask-
ed to raise her right arm to the head, which was done promptly, and with perfect
ease and freedom. Again she was directed to stretch out the left hand, but un-
availin~ly. It was completely paralyzed; devoid of motion and of sensation.
I gave tt a severe pinch, nipping with the thumb and linger, as hard as I deem-
ed it prudent to, leaving deep impressions with my nails. Upon inquiring if it
did not hurt her, she, with an incredulous smile, observed, that I had not done
any thing to her. I then, without saying any thing, pinched, in the same man-
ner, though less severely, the other hand, when she drew back from me with a
sudden start, and complained that I hurt her. The arm, to one lifting it, was a
perfect dead weight. I poised it on my fingers, and Mr. G. restored it; and there
was a very marked difference in it and about it, as it passed from the magnetic
to the natural state.
To a person not acquainted with the magnetizer, magnetizee, and the gentle-
men present, there will of course appear nothing conclusive upon the subject of
magnetism in what is here detailed; but to those of us who had previously ex-
amined other patients, and satisfied ourselves of the existence of a power by
means of which, to a certain extent, one individual may obtain mental mastery
over another, the experiment was satisfactory.
Should a suitable opportunity hereafter present, I may furnish you with a
statement of some singular cases which I have witnessed. In the meantime I
retnain,
Yours, &c.
THOMAS H. WEBB.
MR. THOMAS c. HARTSHORN."
Erratwn.-First line, pa~e 29, dele the words-" they are like ligures." My
impression is strong that Mtss B. said something equivalent, if not those words;
but on reflection l ('.annot recall the exact phrase she used.
