{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__barlow___the_discovery_of_the_vital_principal.pdf","mytitle":"The Discovery Of The Vital Principal","mylang":"de"}
THE
DISCOVERY
.._._I A
1/!)
OF THE
VITAL PRINCIPLE,
on,
PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN.
“ [l' the human mind can evar ﬂutkr itself with having been
successful in discovering the truth, it is when many facts, and these
(and! of different kinds, unlta In producing the same result."
M. BAH-LIE.
PUILHI‘IED IY
G. A. STARLING, 40, LEICESTER SQUARE, LONDON.
MDCCCXXXVIH.
"INTI" In C ADI-AND, INRTHUHLIIW CIMI.
PREFACE.
THE Vital Principle—the source of- all animal
life, has engaged the attention, and been the-subject
of research, of scientiﬁc men of every age and
country: speculation has been added to speculation,
experiment to experiment, yet this “philosopbcr’s
stone" remains involved in its original obscurity.
The human mind, weary of conjecture, and recoiling
from fruitless labours, has at length assigned to the
object in pursuit the character of some Wild chimera
—some igms fatuus, calculated to mislead into
a labyrinth of unproﬁtable study, or, if really
existing, being, for some wise and unseen pur
pose, withheld from the understanding of Man.
vi. PREFACE.
The period, however, has arrived in which this
truth must be developed! real knowledge always
progresses with necessity, and the elucidation
of the Vital Principle has now become essential
to the wants of mankind: for, while we continue
unacquainted with the origin of life, what effectual
step can be taken to prevent the incursions of
disease and death, so unusually prevalent in the
present day? On the explanation of the vital
phenomena, and general diffusion of physiological
knowledge, will be found to depend the preserva
tion of the entire human species.
The intention of the present work will be evi
dent on the perusal of the following brief outline
of its contents.
Animal life being divided into three distinct
stages, and these proving analogous to the solid,
ﬂuid, and aeriform states of inorganic matter, all
creation is here identiﬁed with the animal origin,
and our universe, generally admitted to be in the
vnsmcs. vii.
condition of an undulating ﬂuid, maintained to be
capable of assuming also the solid and gaseous
forms of existence : from which the following
deductions have been made=
1st, That an Ovum was originally formed, con
taining within its circumference or boundary, all
known matter in a solid, latent, and inactive con
dition. From this ovum has arisen,
2dly, The Fmtal, or ﬂuid state of matter, which
has been endowed with active life for the purposes
of organization; the heart being our sun, the other
heavenlybodies—the several organsbelonging to the
ftetus: the whole (our earth included) progressing
at the present period towards the structure of one
complete human frame, analogous to that of Man.
3dly, The future, or perfected existence of the
present foetus as a locomotive being of celestial
substance and imperishable nature: this last period
answering to the life of man subsequent to birth,
which is the aeriform stage.
The subject of this volume may therefore be con
viii. PRE FACE.
sidered the life of an individual: the object—the
primary object, for which it has been written, is the
prolongation and preservation of the existence,
not only of this individual, but of the whole
human race: for in this individual all other life
is included, (“in Him we live, and move, and have
our being,”* our life being “ hid with Christ in
God.”#)
Man, apparently supposing that the earth on
which he moves will ever continue to exist in its
present state, is daily forming new plans, and laying
down projects extending to an eternity, which, as
far as regards this universe, can exist only in his
own imagination: at no time since the creation
could such an opinion have been so dangerous!
-at no time therefore could the discovery of
the Vital Principle have proved of greater utility!
To arrest the progress of undertakings which are
calculated to bring to a premature termination
' Acts, xvii. ‘28. 1 Colossians, iii. 3.
-i' “T'ﬁm- ----- _.._
PREFACE.' ix.
the fcetal life of this universe, and consequently to
involve a dissolution of the present state of organized
matter in our own sphere, has been the aim and
intention of the author in the ensuing volume:
numberless have been the anxieties “consequent
upon the rapid progress of events connected with
the subject it comprises,—and all engrossing the
hope that, ere too late, Man might become acquaint
ed with his impending danger! The promulgation
of this discovery was a duty incumbent upon any
person within whose reach a knowledge so important
had been placed: this duty, this imperative duty, is
now fulﬁlled, and the knowledge upon which will
be found to depend the fate of past, present, and
future ages, is at last placed within the limits of
the comprehension of Man!
This work is addressed to the whole world, but
to the scientiﬁc and medical branches of society
more particularly, under the conviction that by
their united efforts alone can the Discovery of
X. PREFACE.
the Vital Principle be rendered to its full extent
available to the community at large, and the object
of the author ultimately accomplished. Should
this be appreciated, another volume is in contem
plation, in which it is proposed to give a more
enlarged and comprehensive view of the primary
and henceforward all-important subject—the Disease
of Man.
London; July 16, I838. _
CONTENTS.
CIIAP. l.
The Ovum of the Universe.
Life, regressive. Dividedinto three stages, the oval, foetal, and
locomotive. Creation subject to vital laws. Identity of the three
stages of life with the solid, ﬂuid, and aeriform states of matter.
Universe must pass through these three stages. Man a type of the
universe. Plato on the origin of matter. Lord Brougham on
materialism. State of the universe not always that in which it
now appears to exist. Creation progressive according to Holy
Writ. One scale of life comprising all known matter. Universe
has passed through its ﬁrst or oval stage: solidity essential to
this. Sir Isaac Newton and Lucretius on the solidity of primitive
matter. Diamond, the base of all organization. Pliny on its
hardness. Idea of its organic powers not extravagant. Its natural
state. oviform. Commencement of organization unknown. Primary
matter “as diamond, and ofhomogeneous nature. It existed prior to
this universe. Sun,moon, stars, motion, heat and light, subsequently
prodw'ed. How the diamond became formed into an egg. Its threefold
nature; this tri le union common in creation, and ty ical ofthe
Deity. lirahmimcal notion respecting the incubation of the Deity
in producing creation: the primordial egg. The universal ovum
formed by God, of His own substance, and therefore ofcelestial origin.
It must hecome a ﬁrtus, and afterwards a locomotive animal. Size of
the ovum. Its augmentation in hulk, and change to the fatal 0r
m-ond stage. Formation of the sun, or heart, the primary organ
of the foetus. . . . . . . . . Page I
CHAP. II.
The Fretus (fl/u: Unirersc.
l'niu'rsc acquires the cordil'orm shape on entering into the i'wtal
“h_ Linn of gravitation identical WIth the line of Apsiilcs. It
xii. C(lN'I‘EN'l‘S.
passes through the fLBiZill body. Boiling and freezing points. Galvanic
and electric owers. Threefold division ofthe foetus: the sun, ﬂuid
medium, an boundar united in one. Its extension into space. Mag
netic experiments. rs. Somerville, M. Biot, and Gay Lussac, on
the magnetic action ofthe universe. Opinion of the Stoics on universal
gravitation. Dr. Herschell on the centre of matter. Diamond eva
pomble by galvanism. Its electric and phosphorescent powers.
Scriptural notice of the line of gravitation. Its actual existence and
government of universal motion. Sun or heart, the source of light,
heat, and motion. Its combustion, and re'ection of matter. Formation
of this matter into the several organs. very phenomenon of the uni
verse caused by gravitation. Form, qualities, and powers ofthe sun's
particles. Deposition of the planets, and commencement of their oval
stage. Order exhibited by the most minute atom. Keith on the centre
of gravity. Scriptural allusion to the foundation of the earth. The
planets‘ aggregation of matter, or twofold mode of sustenance from
the sun. Stationarydurin theirovalstage. Densityofmatterincreases
with the distance from t e sun. Solidity of the ﬁrst stage of life.
Opinion of Sir Isaac Newton on simple and compound matter. Gravita
tion and crystallization. Planet governedby the same lawsas the heart.
Changes to the feetal stage. Motion round the sun commences.
Centre of the planet, the seat of active life: its peculiarline ofgravity
endowed with powers similar to that of the universe. Planet's motion
commences from the freezing point. Temperature regulated by its
prosition as reg? rds the sun.l ightand left hand of the universal ﬁetus.
eins and arteries. Exchange of matter between the sun and planets.
Planet has the power of producing satellites for itself. Moons formed
on the same princi vle as their primary. Compelled to pass through
the three stages. l‘hird stage of the planets not yet arrived. The
Zodiac. Diameter and circumference of the universal fretus.
The Galaxy. The surface, or boundary, composed of aeriform matter,
and must pass through the three periods before the ﬁnial life
terminates. . . . . . . . . . 20
CHAP. lll.
llIattcr.
All matter diamond. It varies with combustion. When condensed
it forms iron. All matter has been traced to hydrogen and oxy en.
Diamond the base of the former, iron of the latter. United, t eae
two gases constitute water. The sun's body composed of these sub
stances. DIAMOND. its names. Valued in remotest ages. Original
position never ascertained. Where found. How ﬁrst discovered in
India. Various mines. Diamond, the only stone found in mines of
metal. Mawc on the general locality of the diamond-mines. Forms of
the diamond. Mode of cr_\ stallization. ('rustcd appearance in the
J
('ox'rew'rs. xiii.
natural state. Mode of cleansing it. Transparency, purity, and
colour. lts imperfections. Minute layers of which it is composed.
Its haoliiess. and use in cuttin glass. Opinion of the ancients on its
hardness. Difference of the iamondfrom all other substances. A
good repository ofwealth. How to determine the value of diamonds.
Lernenhock‘s experiments, and opinion as to their formation and
increase. Action ofthe sun upon the em. Itsluminous properties. Its
refraction and reﬂexion of light. Sll' Isaac Newton's prophecy veri
ﬁed by --xperiment. Identiﬁed by Sir H. Davy with charcoal.
Specific. gravity. A non-conductor of electricity. How acted
upon when burnt in oxygen. Lavoisier's discovery that carbonic
acid was formed from diamond. Differs from charcoal only in the
arrangement of its parts. Its identity with blacklead and plumbago,
and comparative rarity. Importance of this circumstance. Charcoal,
a conductor of electricity. Experiment of Sir H. Davy. Pliny
on the diamond and singular fact in relation to the loadstone. Author‘s
inferences from the preceding testimonials. IRON. Its ﬁve states.
Native iron. Its forms. Oxyd and sulphuret of iron. Plumbago.
Iron ores. Abundance of the metal. The cause of colour in
I’M‘ks, and ravi‘y in stones. lts s cciﬁc gravity. Belongs to
the three divisions of matter. How 0 tained from the ores. Its
properties when manufactured. Cohesive power, lustre, malleahility,
welding, inﬂammability. Merl. Its qualities. How made. Proper
rin. when manufactured. Ma net or laulstone. Whence brought,
“a colours and form. Properties and peculiar attraction for iron.
Its attraction for other substances. Variation in power of magnets,
Effect of appending a magnet to iron. 'l‘his stone known to the
ancients. Its polarity. Use as regards the universal fabric. Author's
' opinion of theidentity of iron with oxygen. Its agency in the civiliza
tion ofman,and generalutility.CAaaou. Meaning ofthe term. Identity
ot'tliis substance with thediamond. ltconductselectricity. Iuwhat
manner it is formed. Plumbago. Where found, and its properties.
l-Ili‘rct of burning charcoal. Its absorption of the gases. Carbonic
-\(.\U gas. Carbonic oxyde. Oleﬁant as. Carburetted hydrogen,
(“hm-coal always containshydrogen. Car on, the fundamental element
of all organization. Its abundance, particularly in the form of coals.
IIvDaoo'srr. Ori in of the term. Its lightness and abundance.
Cannot be obtained in the solid or ﬂuid form: when gaseous, always
produced from water. Not absorbable by most substances. Dissolve;
vermin bodies. Does not act on the earths. Capable of com res
sion. lnﬂammability. Destructive to animal life. Extinguishes
a taper. Means of ascertaining the _purity of hydrogen. Dis
roverv of Dobereiner respecting it. Circumstances under which it
rodiives water, whenceitderives its name. Philosophical candle of
2%. Priestley. Production of sound. Its smell. Attraction for
oxygen. Spontaneous combustion. Adaptation of hydrogen to the
purposes of nature, and its relation to oxygen. Oxvoss. II hence
the term. Always found in a combined state. Oxygen gas, how
xiv. cos'raN'rs.
denominated by philosophers. Priestley, Cavendish, and Scheele.
Stalil's doctrine. l'lxperinn‘nts ofichecle and Lavoisier. Qualities, and
speciﬁc. gravity, oi'oxygen. Oxyds, Operations of oxygen through
out the earth. Its use in respiration. its support of combustion.
Priestley Dalton and Berthollct, on the. atmosphere. Consequence
of atmospheric combustion. Effect of respiration on 0X} gen.
its inﬂuence on vegetation. Usein bleaching, dyeing, colour making,
and metallurgy. Adaptation to purposes of organization in general.
WATER. ('omposed ol'h'rdrogen and onygen. Summary ofprincipal
facts relating to the substances diamond. iron, carbon, hydrogen, and
oxygen: their identity and combination in the tluid, water . . . . (32
(HAP. IV.
The Vital Principle.
The Principle of Life sought unsuccessfully from the remotest ages.
Dew has not been sufﬁciently considered. its importance to vitality.
Its generation of animal life. it has never been looked upon as a
primary cause of organization. Not produced by the earth. but
originates in the sun. Descends to the earth with black specks,
in a crystalline form, as snow. Dew composed of carbon, hydrogen,
and oxygen. Appearance of snow after lying on the. ground. Dew,
causes atmospherical phenomena, by pressing on our atmosphere,
Rain, the cause of blightand disease. How storms are produced.
Carbon preserves the purity of outer. Sulphur generated by
atmospheric combustion. Amt». Vegetable kingdom, not the source of
oxy gen, but of carbonic acid gas. Purity of aconntry atmosphere,
compared with that of London. t'arbon destructive to the vegetable
kingdom. Hydrogen, the base of alkalies, Oxygen. of acids, Carbon,
of hitters. Relation of the three substances to each other. Their pro
duction of animal life. They preponderate alternately in nature.
Progress of organization. (‘arbonie acid gas thrown to the earth‘s
surface. Animals arranged accordng to their speciﬁc gravity. Vital
l’rinciplepredominant throughout nature. . ‘ . . . 1438
FHAP. v.
I'rgctu 516 Life.
Origin and progress of vegetation under atmospheric inﬂuence,
'l‘hree'stages of vegetable life. First stage, or seed : composed of solid
diamond. Instances of the extended duration of thisperiod. Second
stage, or foetal. Manner in which the change takes place. The heart
formed. How it reeeiveaits nutriment. Organization of the roots
6
CONTENTS. XV.
from the heart. Duration ofthe foetal life, limited. (‘onse nenee of
its retardation or prolongation. Chan e to the third or aeritorm life.
(‘olonr and locomotion. Formation 0 leaves, branches, and ﬂowers.
Power of reproducing the species belongs to this stage. Another mode
of propagation belonging to the roots: this last produces varieties
ofthe kind. Shapes of matter displayed in the vegetable kingdom.
l’n-duminance of the heart-shape. Mode in which the membrane of
the plant is adapted for the reception of atmospheric nutriment. De
scription given by Dr. Roget, in the Bridgewater Treatises, of the
vegetable membrane. Res iration of plants. Dew, the base of ani
mal life. lnhalation of ew, and exhalation of carbonic acid, by
vegetables, the cause ofanimal creation. Every vegetable producesa
peculiar animal: instance. the orchis. Man, like the vegetable, has a
tuot'old means of propagation. First man has been roduced from
the vegetable: the second from himself. All matter 0 animal origin.
The surface of the earth composed of three divisions or kingdoms.
The earth an organ of the universal fuetus,—-Man. . . 186
CHAP. VI.
Man.
Man. llis origin, and adaptation to the sphere—Earth. He is a
machine. Limits appointed for his duration. Oval, or ﬁrst stage.
The seed composed of solid diamond. Production of active life,
and formation of the heart. Its galvanic action. Mode in which
nutriment is conveyed to it. Deposition ofthe several organs. How
these become divided into a. threefold state, the foetal, (or second
period.) Brain, liver, lungs, and stomach, formed in turn from the
heart. Arteries and veins. Formation of the joints. Organs of
man, seven in number. Their connexion by the veins and arteries.
Mucous membrane. Mode of organization: spine and brain formed.
Heart, uterus, and brain, the primary organs of man. Organization
se arates pure from impure matter. The heart performs the ofﬁce
ofpa stomach in the foetal stage. Liver, lungs, and stomach, not
appropriated to use in this eriod of existence. One circulation
onlv m the ftntns—for the ormation of the organs or machine:
thiii circulation white. Foetal differs from the locomotive life. 'l‘er
mination of the former. Deposition of the true skin, and change to
the locomotive stage. Child enters the world with its mouth open.
Distention of its body with hydrogen. How double circulation com
momma, No circulation of red blood in the foetus. Action of the heart
and Inn s in the new-born halve. Circulation produced by combus
tion carried on in the heart. The heart a real steam-engine. Requires
a constant su ply of fuel. Locomotion the result of atmospheric pres
sure. Elasticity, irritability, muscular motion, and locomotion.
,Urcrcd functions of the heart in the third stage of existence . 204
xvi. coN'rexrs.
—‘ “m mr—______
CHAP. VII.
The Earl/l.
The earth has not always been its present size. Has commenced from a
minute atom. All matter of animalorigin: passes throu hthree stages:
solid, fluid, and aeriform, combined in each of these. reponderanoe
of either constitutes the egg, fcetns, or animal. The earth must pass
through the three periods of existence. The ﬁrst ended with the Deluge.
The second is now regressing. The third not yet attained. Ancient
opinion on the ovi orm origin ofthe earth. “ Mundane egg“ at Tyre.
Diamond, the base of the terrestrial ovum. Deposited by the sun.
Its colour black. Increase of solidity with the distance from the sun.
The matter more solid than that now deposited. The earth ﬁxed
on the universal line of gravitation, and attached to the sun or heart.
No light, heat, or motion in this primitive state. Its increase in size by
nutriment. Spark of active life elicited by pressure. Commencement
ofanimal and vegetable creation. Elastic web or bOundary of the
ovum. Life ascends from the centre to the surface. causing a three
fold division of the ovum, and production of Man. Perfect state of the
ovum. Disobedience of Adam and Eve. Punishment inﬂicted on
them. Meaning of the term ‘ death.’ Consequence of man's disobe
dience as regarded the rest of the creation. Commencement of the
impeifcction and dissolution of matter. Parasitical races forming
the earth‘s surface, produced from man‘s body, in consequence of sin.
Production of the organs of the earth at the terrestrial apex. First,
their oval, then their fmtal life. Increase in size of the earth by
the repeated deposition of organs. Its twofold mode of propagation.
Man, the key-stone of all organization. He is ﬁrst and last in every
sphere. Forms the centre and surface of the ovum. Earth was
produced from decomposed solar matter. No inorganic matter in this
universe. Descending and ascending creation. Ian, the monarch
of his sphere, and creator of all the beings around him. He
originated with the first ﬂuid drop of water. Was perfect in hisdpri
mary state, being formed from pure diamond. Has degenerate by
ravitation. Carbonic acid gas thrown off to the earth's apex.
ts rc-ascent through the internal earth, and deposition of the brain or
moon. Uterus, heart, and brain of the earth. Increase of the
last in the oval, and its change to the foetal, stage. External race
of man propagated downwards from the galvanic or boiling point.
Purity of the primeval atmosphere. Longevity of man. His size
and strength proportioned to the solidity of the earth, his habitation.
Gradations of colour in the race. Moral and physical darkness.
Condition of other animals at that eriod. Deformity, the result
of darkness. Ancient monumrnts 0 art, types of the beings then
existing. Petrifaction of living animals at the ﬂood. Degenerac)
of man the occasion of the earth‘s destruction. The Deluge caused
by the condensed atmosphere produced by man. Moon changes to
the foetal stage. ls converted to the heart-shape. (‘ompresses the
earth's atmosphere. Accumulation of ﬂuid in the centre ofthrcarth,
cosrntv'rs.‘ xvii,
and its ﬁnal overﬂow, or Deluge. Detachment of the planet from
the bonds which conﬁned it to the sun, it presents its apex to that
body. ( misc of the equal division of summer and winter atthe North
Pole. Earth's revolution on its axis and orbit. Its ascent to the
point of heat, and return to its old situation. The seasons. Detach
ment of the moon from the earth. It presents its apex to the latter.
It causes the ﬂux and reﬂux of the tides. Inferior and superior lives
Opposed to each other. Sun‘s inﬂuence on the earth’s surface. Colour
and light. Progression of organization. Temperature of the earth
and thermometer of life. South Pole, thepoint of radiation. North
Pole, the point of attraction. Earth, an epitome of the universe.
Its three divisions: answering to the sun,_ ﬂuid medium, and boundary.
The terrestrial line of raritation. Its powers. Solidity of the earth‘s
surface near the Northi’ole, contrasted with the ﬂuidity ofthe Southern
Hemisphere. The cause. Captain Cook‘s observations on the South Pole;
Captain Ross on the North, and its phenomena. Increase in bulk of our
planet. Atlantic and Paciﬁc oceans caused by the retreat of the diluvial
waters. Manner in which the earth becomes reorganized. Its boundary,
the source of internal light. The heart, the source of animal heat. The
descent of solar matter testiﬁed by observations ofaeronauts,and moun
tain tops being covered with snow. Atmospherieal phenomena; their
causes. Formation of rocks. Cuvier‘s estimate of the distribution of
matter on the earth‘s surface. All matter the roduce of the diamond.
Bakewell on primary rocks. They originated rom animals crystallized
by the deluge. Cause of fossil formations. Dr. Faraday on siliciﬁed
trees and other fossil specimens. Present surface produced from the
decay of the antediluvian. Rocks have to pass through the three stages.
Deposited by aeriform matter. Chief base of rocks according to
Ehrenburg is iron: they consist of infusoria in a fossil state.
This formed the crystalline or oval stage. Mr. Crossc’s experiments
support this theory. Base of the present surface formed b mfusoria.
Rock changes to the foetal stage. Fluid generated. New epositionl.
Each part has a line. of gravitation. Powers of this line. Division
of the solid rock into three forms of matter. Formation of seas. Co
lour ofthese fluids, occasioning the denominations black, red, and white.
Land and sea animals. Progressive organization, and ultimate pro
duction of, man. Clefts in rocks. Atmosphere composed of living
animals. Materials of which insects consist. They are produced by
atmospheric combustion. Division of the membrane. Ascending and
descending creation. Progress of matter like that of the butterﬂy.
Shell deposited in each chan e to propagate the succeedin generation.
Living and dead tissues. E‘iiggs of three classes: their co ours, black,
red, and white. Earth formed by the decomposition of man‘s body.
Granite rocks. and subsequent strata. Production of diﬁ'erent coloured
races from them. Progress of or anization, limited: degeneracy and
death lucceed. Man formed on the ass of the lower creation. Contains
ever living animal in his frame. Superior bodies formed by uniting
the inferior. Inferior by separation of the superior. The earth‘s
m rface consists of every animal united. Life roducedby combustion.
“hour the lot of man, since the fall. The ovver animals converted
b
xviii. comes-rs.
to carbon by him. He gives stability to the earth. Terrestrial matter
converted into carbonic acid. Organization of the moon. Its nutri
ment. Changes in the race of man since the Deluge. Decrease in
longevity. Increase in mental p0Wer. Man, the cultivator of the
earth, and cause of all its changes. The whole race destined by
labour to pr-duee an individual. General change of climate. Families,
pestilences, and earthquakes, of more frequent occurrence than formerly.
Coal, iron, and metals, more abundant. Increased combustion of the
earth These changes the result of man's cupidity. Use of steam,
gas, and iron machinery, among their primary causes. Division of
water into its elements, not intended by nature. Premature change of
the earth about to take place, or a derangement and deformity of its
parts. lousequenee of mining and excavations. Symptoms of the
approaching change. Condensation of the atmosphere, and consequent
phenomena. Increase of the parasitical races. Degenerac ' of man.
and his return to the primitive stature. Approximation o the earth
and sun. Loss of the sun‘s rays, and darkness spread over the earth.
Gravitation, the cause of the earth's change. Incorporation ofthe earth
and moon. Generalcombustion or contlagration. Force of compression.
Planet's ascent into a new sphere. Preservation of the seeds of a new
race of beings. Probable escape of a remnant of the present race of
man by the medium of balloons. . . . . . 218
(IHAP. VIII.
The Fwtus of the Universe.
(Continued from page 61.)
Threefold division of the universe. The Zodiac, or external boun
dary. The earth, an epitome of the universe. The Zodiac formed of
a series of spheres, like those of our earth‘s surface. Seas and conti
nents there developed: animal and vegetable life. Man, an inha
bitant of the Zodiac. His base formed by his predecessors. Heat
and light of two Irinds, radiated and reﬂected. Division of dark
ness from light. Sun, the focus of light. Colour. Sound. Speech.
Puriﬁcation of matter. Space. Organization of the universe. Numbers.
Celestial origin of the universal fmtus. Its increase in rowth.
Deﬁnite period appointed for its duration. The way in which the
change must take place. Retardation of the planets. Compression
and carbonization of the sun. Spots on its surface. The organs
no longer receive nutriment from it. Gravitation of the foetus. Its
entrance into the third or locomotivelife. Design to be traced in the
construction of the universal ovum. Man's apparent insigniﬁcanee in
comparison with the foetal machine—the Universe. His identity with
its future, as Well as present, existence. . . 394
cos'rsnrs. xix.
CHAP. IX.
Man.
(ConcluchJ
Structure of man. Locomotive life: how carried on by the
mend organs. The brain. lts three stages: these not co-existent
with those of the body. inferior and superior lives of man. The
eye. Its oﬂice as regards the brain. Sleep. Hours of rest and motion
appointed by nature. Dreams and nightmare. Cause of imaginary
and real feeling. Compression of the brain. Mind, the impression
produced by matter on matter. Elastic web of man. Death: its
eﬂ‘ect on the brain and uterus. Deﬁnite stature appointed for each
individual. Man compared to a tree. Locomotion, necessary to his
growth. Good air and food essential. Life divided into periods
:snsvverinv to the seasons. Pursuits molt conducive to health in in
fancy. Man's distinction in mature years attributable to maternal
care during infancy. importance of woman to societ . Necessit of
her learning how to properly educate and nouris her offspring.
Her own superintendsnce in the nursery essential. Attention
of fathers not to be dispensed with. Degeneracy of man productive
of ruin to states. Education should strengthen mind and body.
Vital action compared to a blacksmith‘s forge. Fever. Is caused by an
excess or deﬁciency of food. infection and contagion. How to
cure disease. The elastic membrane. It is composed of diamond.
'l'hreet'old in its organization. Mun built from worms. How they
are developed. Their increase and multiplication. Their destruc
t.on necessary to the preservation of man. Three classes of
di~case. The two ﬁrst have been developed by our earth. Origin
-~f disease in the latter. Twofold propagation of man. Instinct
and design. Cuvier on the origin of organization. Laws of
matter: in number, seven. Division of these into primary or simple,
and secondary or com ound. Attraction. Absor tion. Repulsion.
Muscular motion. ravitation. Deposition. omotion. The
universe was produced by a locomotive being. Matter of two classes:
ﬁring and dead. Organisation. Elasticity: caused by mercury. Its
three stages: instances of these. The sexes. Perfect man. Christ,
the rfect man of the ftetal earth. Adam of the oval. Perfect man
of t 10 future, or locomotive life. The Deity: his material nature,
human form, and perfection. His present state of existence. His two
fold mode of pr0paiatiou. The universe‘produced from his body. His
on nsphere formed y himself: how it wi l he made com lete. Exist
ence of God in every sphere. He is the Author oflife. osition of ter
restrial man in relation tohis own sphere. His position in relation to
the general sphere. On which of these his life_depends. About to uta
premature period to ins existence. Conformity With the laws 0 God
net-canary to his preservation. A sphere assigned to each individual.
Di~placement of the individual or organ occasions disease. or deformity
in the body 0,; large. Disease is premature death: caused by a prepon
XX. CONTENTS.
derance of 1y..- or death. Monster-creation: not to be destroyed by
decapitation, but by bei improved or made perfect. All life con
nected in one link. How t e disease of the foetus may be cured. Man
accountable for the use of his existence. Perfection of the structure of
the universal fmtus dependant on him. Medical advice necessary, and
a diffusion of physiological knowledge. Restoration of man to his
proper sphere, and puriﬁcation of the atmosphere. The loss of man‘s
place in the present sphere, attended with future degradation, and
separation from his Deity. He must subdue himself, in order to
perfect the present creation. Adherence to the laws of God, and sub
mission to the trials of the present life, necessary to accumplish the
happiness and perfection of man. . e . 44
ZRRATA
Page 66, for Mizain read Mizam.
—— 118, -— Blande rend Brnmle.
—-- 157, _- loose read lou.
-— 159, — cuntrivor read mtrivsr. ‘
—— 182, - on liquid ﬂame, read ofliquld ﬂame.
— 183, - arr-idify rendﬂuidlty.
-— 190, 232, for aeriﬂrrme read ant/arm.
THE
DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
&0.
CHAPTER I.
OVUM OF THE UNIVERSE.
“A Seed shall serve Him, it shall be accounted to tire Lord
for a generation.”-PsALM xxii. 30.
ANIMAL life is progressive, commencing with the
smallest imperceptible atom, and passing through
three successive stages, which may be termed the
.oval, the foetal, and the locomotive, where it ﬁnally
obtains a deﬁnite development and structure. The
laws by which life is governed are universal and
I invariable; they have force not only over man, the
most perfect specimen of animated existence, but
over the brute creation, over plants, the heavenly
bodies, and the vast universe in which all these are
.‘\‘ ' , B
2 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
contained.* The matter, which is generally con
sidered inorganic, changes, like that of which
organized bodies are composed, from solid to ﬂuid,
from ﬂuid to aiiriform; and the universe, as awhole,
I maintain is to be regarded as endowed with that
life, which its more perfect parts, (as, for instance,
man, and the animals,) manifest: thus endowed, it
is to be contemplated as of necessity passing
through three stages of existence, identiﬁed with
the several states of matter in the following table;
the ﬁrst of which is the solid, or oval; the
second, theﬂuid, or foetal; the third, the aéirg'form,
or locomotive.
TUB THREE ANALOGOUS STAGES.
mommnc
on "mama" VEbB'I'ABLZ. ANIMAL
ls! Life, .
0, Wm Solldnas Ice.) Seed. 0mm
_ I ‘ _
, \ Fmtus (whil'h is also
"Y “I’M- (u Water.) \ Siound. {gingeflrmﬁm Perm
8d Life, A'e'riForm, i .
or locomotive' (as swam.) Plantabore ground. Animal bom.
Man has been created in the image of his Maker,
and has been called the microcosm; in the uni
“ “ Centuries ago, enquirers were admonished by Lord Bacon, that
the nature of any thing was seldom to be lound in the. thing itself;
and in illustration of this general truth, foretold that the‘laws of
the heavenly bodies would be discovered, as they were afterwards dis
covered by Newton, not in the bodies themselves, but in the bodies
upon the earth.“—~Busil Alloumgm‘s Essays.
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 3
verse, as we now present it to his contemplation,
he will behold his own frame revealed, on the
largest and most complete scale; it has been justly
called the macrocosm when compared to him.
Plato says, “Forasmuch as of sensible and singular
things there must of necessity be some exemplars,
viz. ideas, of which are sciences and deﬁnitions,
(for, besides all particular men, we conceive a man
in our mind, and besides all particular horses, a
horse, and likewise besides'all living creatures, a
living creature, immortal and ulibegotten: as
from one seal are made many prints, and of one
man there may be many pictures, of all which the
Idea itself is Cause'that there are such as itself is,)
it is necessary that this universe, the fairest fabric
of God‘s making, be so made by God, that in the
making thereof, he looked upon an idea as its exem~
plar, whilst by a wonderful providence and most
excellent design, God applied himself to the build
ing of this frame, because he was good. God,
therefore, made it of all matter, which, being before
the generation of heaven disorderly scattered, he
from a deformed confusion reduced to beautiful
order, and adorned every way the parts thereof
with ﬁt numbers and ﬁgures, until, at last, he so
distinguished them as now they are.“ I
' “ It was the opinion of Plotimls, cenﬁnned not only by the but
Pinonlm, but even by Aristotle. and all the Arabians, especially
Avicenna, that God, from eternity, produced a creature of incor
92
4 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRXNCIPLE,
Lord Brougham, in his work on Natural Theology,
says, “Upon the scheme of materialism, no rational,
indeed no intelligible account can be given of a
ﬁrst cause, or of the creation or government of
the universe.“ I, however, conﬁdently expect
in this manner to show most rationally and most
intelligibly, what this beginning of all things created
wasrl- We are accustomed to behold the sun,
that vast luminary, placed in the centre of our
system, the planets revolving round him in their
appointed orbits, the ﬁxed stars, and all the other
phenomena of heavenly bodies, in the order, har
mony, and perfection, which they now present, and
to imagine that they have existed in the same
manner from the creation. “Has then all this
poreal and intellectual nature, as perfect as is possible for :1 created
being; beyond which he produced nothing.“—Stanley.
The belief of the Ariana seems to have been founded on a similar
basis: “Arianism, while it declares Christ to be a creature, believes
him, nevertheless, to be a being of a superior nature, produced before
the World, and the organ of the Creator in the production of other
beings. Milton, Clarke, and Locke were Arians, Newton also
according to report, and at one time Priestley."——Cuvicr.
" Lord Brougham says, “ How the Supreme Being made matter
out of the void is not easily comprehended. This must be admitted;
but is it more easy to conceive how the same Being. by His mere will,
moved and fashioned the primordial atoms of an externally existing
chaos, into the beauty of the natural world, or the regularity of the
solar system ?“
't “Dr. Clarke‘s ﬁrst proposition that something must have existed
from all eternity, is demonstrated by showing the absurdity of the
supposition, that the things which now are were produced out of
nothing.“
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 5
immensity of matter, this universe of worlds, and
system within system, been the result of one single
ﬁat of the Creator? Or did He merely produce a
vast central and aggregate chaos as the rude basis
of future worlds, the parent stock, or storehouse,
from which they have issued by distinct efforts
and evolutions?" From the Scriptures we learn
that God did not produce the whole of the vast
machine of the universe by one single qﬁ‘ort of
His power, but that he was employed for the space
of six days in the act of creation, forming the
several parts contained therein in succession, after
which He rested from His labours.
Life then in our universe has been progressive,
and it is my object to trace it from its origin up to
the present period, proving that there is what may
be termed a scale of life, which comprises, in fact,
all creation, and accounts for the development
which we witness. In this investigation, taking an
opposite plan from that usually adopted by astro
nomical writers, (whose observations are limited
to the surface of matter in its present state,)
I shall endeavour not only to arrive at some
satisfactory conclusions respecting the past state
and present condition of this vast fabric of the
universe, but to determine its ultimate destiny.
The universe, endowed at the beginning with
life, could only have attained its present state of
6 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
active existence, (the ﬂuid,) by passing through the
solid or oval period; and as solidity is the ﬁrst
essential to my idea of a seed, so must I attribute
solidity to the ﬁrst condition of the matter forming
our universe}
Sir Isaac Newton gives the following opinion on
primitive matter. “ All things considered, it seems
probable, that God, in the beginning, formed matter
in solid, inassy, hard, impenetrable particles; of
such sizes, ﬁgures, and with such other properties,
and in such proportion to space, as most condueed
to the end for which he formed them. And that
these primitive particles, being solid, are incom
parany kartler than any porous body compounded
of them: even so very hard as never to wear and
break in pieces; no ordinary power being able
to divide what God himself made one in the ﬁrst
creation.” Lucretius seems to have entertained in
a. much earlier period a similar opinion respecting
the solidity of primitive matter, for the following
passage occurs in his work on the “ Nature of
Things."
‘ “The solar system, at this its beginning, must hare been arranged
and put in motion by Some cause. If we suppose this cause to
operate by means of the conﬁgurations and the properties of previ
ously existing matter, these conﬁgurations must have resulted from
some still previous cause, these properties must have produced some
previous eﬂ'ects. We are thus led to a condition still earlier than the
assumed beginning, to an origin of the original state of the universe.“
— “'luwell.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 7
" What lives immortal, too, must s0 exist
Or from its own solidity, empower'd
Ench blow to conquer, undivided still,
As primal atoms".
The only notions we have it in our power to form
respecting matter with any prospect of certainty,
are from analyzing it at our planet the earth. Here
we accordingly ﬁnd one species alone answering
the above description. The Diamond is, in my
opinion, the identical primitive matter so correctly
deﬁned by the poet and philosopher l have just
quoted. At ﬁrst view it may appear a strange and
bold HaSCl'thll, but I expect to prove, beyond a
possibility of doubt, that from this material the
universe, containing such an immense number and
variety of bodies, was really organized. According
to Pliny, “the superior rigidity of the diamond
renders it proof against almost every species of
blow; insomuch, that if beaten on an anvil, the
iron itself, both of the anvil and of the hammer,
will yield before the diamond."+
Some of my readers may here exclaim, “Is it
then to be supposed for a. moment that this dia
mond, which possesses in so eminent a degree the
' “ Epicurus believed that the elementary particles of matter
“ere solid compact bodies."-3l!ason Good.
1' “ Newton sided w ith the idea of atoms, as they have always been
termed, (from the primitive a and "pm, I cut,) being indivisible."
~Hi1ey. This may be inferred from the above passage of Sir Isaac
Xe“ ton, “no ordinary power being able to divide what 601' him_
51'“ made one in thejirsl creation."
8 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
essential quality of hardness, is that substance
which ﬁlls all space, forms every ﬁgure contained
in a circle, is seen and felt in every place, is visible
and invisible, assumes every shape and colour, gives
laws to all mankind, builds cities and palaces, and
peoples kingdoms?” '
Would any one, I ask in reply to this question,
who is unacquainted with the powers of organization,
suppose that from a single minute seed, could arise
a full-formed plant in all its beauty and perfection;
or, from the simple egg, an animal endowed
with the powers of feeling and locomotion? Are
these extraordinary facts more difﬁcult for such
a person to conceive, than for one already ac
quainted with them to believe, that, under certain
circumstances, the phenomena I have enumerated
might be achieved by the diamond P“
In its natural state this valuable
gem is found in the ﬁgure de
scribed in the subjoined diagram, \
which has an oviform surface in 1 \
whatever direction it is viewed. I
Jameson also describes three very
magniﬁcent samples, as follows :—
" Of the wonderful power of organization, Dr. Roget says,
“Let us talle as a specimen the crystalline lens, or hard central
part of the eye ofa curl-ﬁsh, which is a perfectly transparent, and to
all appearance homogeneous spherule. No one, unaccustomed to
explore the wonders of nature, would suspect that so simple a body,
which he might suppose to he formed of a uniform material, cast in a
mould, would disclose, when examined under a powerful microscope,
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 9
“ One of the largest undoubted diamonds is that
mentioned by Tavernier, formerly in the possession
of the Great Mogul, and which traveller found it
to weigh 279191: carats. It is the size of a hen’s egg,
of the same shape, and is cut in the rose form.
Before cutting, it weighed 900 carats. It was found
in the mine of Colore, to the east of Golconda,
about the year 1550.
“ A very large diamond is said to be in the pos
session of the Rajah of Mattan, in Borneo, in which
island it was found about eighty years ago. It is
egg-shaped, with an indented hollow near the
smaller end. It is said to be of the purest water.
It weighs 367 carats.
“The magniﬁcent diamond on the top of the
sceptre of the Emperor of Russia, deserves next
to be noticed. It is perfectly pure; weighs 195
carats; and is the size of a pigeon’s egg. It was
one of the eyes of a Brahminical idol, and was
stolen by a French grenadier, who disposed of it
at a very low price; and, lastly, after passing
through three other hands, it was offered for sale
to the Empress Catherine of Russia, who pur
chased it for about £90,000 ready money, and an
annuity of about £4,000 more.”
and with the skill of a Brewster, the most reﬁned and exquisite con
formation. Yet this little spherical body, scarcely larger than a pen,
is composed of upwards of ﬁve millions of ﬁbres, which look into one
mum" by meal" of more than sixty-two thousand ﬁve hundred
millions of teeth."
10 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Every ovum is formed by a certain process, and
until this process is perfected, it cannot cnter‘upon
the second or foetal stage of animal existence.
According to Dr. Roget, “the process itself by
which the germs of living beings originate, is veiled
in the most impenetrable mystery." This hitherto
inexplicable enigma will, I trust, be elucidated
by the manner in which primitive matter became
organized into the ovum of this universe.
Primitive, or what 1 shall term celestial matter, was
originally simple and homogeneous ill its nature?
This matter was the same as that of which the
rare and costly diamond now affords a specimen,
and existed prior to the formation of sun, moon, or
' Plato calls matter the “ receptacle, nurse, mother, place, and
subject of all images; afﬁrming that it is touched without sense, and
comprehended by an adullemte kind ercalon. The property thereof
is to undergo the generation of all things, and to cherish them like
a nurse, and to admit all forms; being of her own nature expert
of all form, quality, and species. These things are imprinted and
formed in her as in a table, and she ndmittelh their ﬁgures, not
having of herself any form or quality. For, she could not be. ﬁt to
receive the impressions of several forms, unless she were wholly void
of all quality, and of those forms which she is about to receivu. They
who make sweet ungucnts of oil, make choice of that oil which hath
the least scent; they who would imprint any ﬁgures in wax, ﬁrst
smooth and polish the matter, defacing all former ﬁgures. It is
requisite that matter, capable of all things, if it must receive all
forms, must not have the nature of any one of them, but must be
subjected to all forms, without any quality or ﬁgure; and being such,
it is neither a body nor incorporml, but a body potentially; brass
is potentially a statue, because then it becomes a statue when it puts
on the form lllcreof.“~Stmqu/'x Lives oflllr P/IiLmop/lv‘s.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. ll
planets,——motion, heat, or light)“ Without matter
we could have nothing to move, nothing to give
oif heat, nothing to yield as light. Motion, heat,
and light, are qualities dependent upon matter.
This primitive celestial matter consisted of an
inﬁnity of homogeneous but conﬂicting atoms,
ﬁlling all space, which conﬂicting property being
abstracted from them, they were empowered to
conglomerate or unite to form an ovum or seed,
(the ﬁrst life of our universe.) To wit, some
particles, having bestowed on them a more at
tractive power than others, those would gravitate
to form a centre, while these would ascend to
form a surface or boundary. Thus then, for the
ﬁrst time, I suppose that matter was din'ded
into three distinct forms, or rather three in one:
lst, a solid central mass or seed, constantly in
creasing in size from the gravitating particles to
its surface: 2dly, a ﬂuid mass constantly in motion,
° “ He made darkness his secret (or hiding) place." Psnut xviii., ll.
“ Darkness was the state of the original heavens, before God formed
the light, to which this passage seems to be an allusion. In Isaiah,
the term create is applied to darkness, and form to the production
of light; from which it appears that it was out of darkness that
light was formed.- and these two opposites seem to bear the same
relation to web other as positive and negative electricity, or heat
and cold. Darkness was that in which the Divine Spirit operated,
when, by incubation, motion, followed by light and expansion, was
edul‘ed, and the sea brake forth from the crust' of the earth as from
the Womb, whm the cloud was the garment thereof, and thick dark
ness 2 swaddling-baud for it."-—Kirby.
12 THE mscovsmr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
alternately rising and gravitating from the surface
or circumference to the centre again: 3dly, a
circumference of elastic matter capable of being
extended ad inﬁnitumﬁ“ This triple mass must
have constituted an egg, and in my opinion such
was the condition in which this universe existed
prior to the formation of the sun, planets, stars,
&c., during the period of the solid or oval
stage, to which all matter endowed with life is
amenable.
“There is in nature, from the lowest degree of
created living matter to the highest range of intel
lectual being, an evident combination of three
principles, which complete by their union one
perfect substance, and which appear to be formed
in the likeness of the Creator himsel , as a type of
the union of the three Divine attributes of the
'Ih'inity; and man, who is the microcosm, or lesser
world in himself, in like manner is compounded of
three substances."-f~
“ In the philosophy of the. Brahmins, the Vedas
say, that Brahma reposed eternally in himself. This
" Anaxagoras maintained. “that the beginning of motion pro
ceeding from the mind, the heavy bodies obtained the IOWI‘St place,
as the earth; the light, the highest. as the ﬁre; those betwixt both,
the middle, as the air and wawr."-—Stnnlry.
Lucretius believed that,in the vast body of chaos, the atoms com
posing the etherial, being the most elastir and volatile, roec highest
in the scale of creation.
’5' Zuriel's Celestial Philosophy. '
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 13
is the Hebrew moving on the face of the water's.*
The Hebrew properly translated ought to be ren
dered branded, not moved. The spirit of God
brooded. The Hebrew word name mrehpt, does
not mean to move, but correctly to brood, as a hen
on leer eggs before she brings out her young.
The Hindoo, Sir W. Jones supposes to be copied
from the Mosaic history. They are evidently the
same idea."-—Higgins.+
The Brahmins record the primordial state of the
" “ ‘And the spirit of God moved upon the face of the watcrs.’
In which passage, observes Mr. Kirwan, the word breath or spirit
denotes an invisible elastic ﬂuid, to wit, the great evaporation that
took place as soon as the solids began to crystallize. ‘ Of God,‘ is a
well known Hebrew idiom denoting great; and the Hebrew term,
nan-m, in our common versions, rendered moved, occurs but
three times in the whole course of the Bible; and, in every in
stance implies internal agitation, rather than simply musing, or
hovering over: and the phrase, ‘Spirit of God,“ (D‘I'bﬂ "11)
rather refers, deﬁnitively,to the time, and cause, and mode, in which
and by which the ﬁrst process in the order of creation occurred, than
generally and indeﬁnitely to a vast 0r mighty wind of any sort. In
consequence of which, with a slight change in the common punctua
tion, i would read the ﬁrst two verses of the Book of Genesis as
follows: ' In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
The earth was yet a desolate waste, with darkness upon the face of
the deep. And the Spirit of God agitated the waters to their sur
fawe.“'-—Mam (iood’s Notes on Lucretius.
'P “ Whilst Brahm was thus disposed of, he was said to be sur
rounded with Maya, that is, the desire to produce, eternal love, or
tuusitm. Maya is, according to the learned Hindoos, to diversify
itself in creating worlds. She is regarded as the mother of nature,
and of the inferior gods."-—Higgins.
“The idea of the incubation of the spirit, of its being the principle
of love that was in action, and that it produced the ﬁrst motion,
prevails, more or less, in all the cosmogonies. Aristophanes, in his
14 THE mscovnnr 0F rm: VITAL PRINCIPLE,
universe, as that of an egg in the subjoined pas
sage, translated by Sir W. Jones.
“ He whom the mind alone can perceive, having
willed to produce various beings from his own
divine substance, ﬁrst, with a thought created the
waters, and placed in them a productive seed.
That seed became an egg, bright as gold, blazing
like the luminary, with a thousand beams; and
in that egg he was born himself, in the form of
Brahma, the great forefather of all spirits. In
Aves, gives an account of the Grecian cosmogony. which proves that
the heathen gods of the Greeks were all subseqwul to the original
creation of motler, in a passage, of which the following lines are
nearly a literal translation.
“ Once chaos was and night_ dark Erebus
And ample antarus; hut earth, and air,
And heaven were not. First black-wing‘d night
In th‘ inﬁnite. gulfs of Erebus brought forth
The wind-nurs'd egg. from which in circling hours,
Love, the desir‘d, his shoulders golden-Wing'd,
Sprung like a wind-swift vortex, he who mix‘d
With Chaos wing‘d and dark, and Tartarus wide
Nested our race, and them brought ﬁrst to light.
Ere love commingled all, immortal gods
Were none, but from that commixture rose
Heaven, sea. and earth, and gods incorruptible.“
“‘ Wind-nurs‘d ng.‘—-w"1rr)veplov wov- Literally, the egg under the
wind, alluding to the inriihation of the Spirit.
“ ‘ L0ve.‘-—'l'his is the motion infust by the Spirit into the chaos
which was followed by light and expansion, and the whole harmo
nious circle of creation, in which there was no discord, but all was
very good.
“‘ Hm shoulders gnhlrn-ws'ng’df—Znhﬁmv vurov Wrspvyow xpuaaw.
Literally, his back shining with two golden wings,- these two golden
OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 15
that egg the great power sat inactive a whole year
of the Creator, at the close of which, by his thought
alone, be caused the egg to (Zim'de they; and
from its two divisions he framed the heavens
above, and the earth beneath; and in the midst
he placed the subtile ether, the eight regions, and
the permanent receptacle of Waters." ‘
“The principle upon which all philosophical dis
cussion proceeds is, that every change which we
observe in the condition of things is considered 'by
us as an qﬂ'ect, indicating the agency, character
izing the kind, and measuring the degree of its
cause.“ In the instance before us, God is
wings were, perhaps, light and the expansion, which carried love
through his whole work.
“‘ Symmgf-Jﬁkacw, germinated.
“ ‘ Wind-cu if} tortu.‘—-wac Mow-rm dwwc- Literally, like whirl
winds. or Whirlpools, swift as the wind.
“‘ He who mir'd with chaos wing'zl and d141'k.'—0!'1r0c d! xau rrspow-n
my“; “qua—This describes lore or motion entering into chaos and
beginning to produce order.
“ ‘ Noted our ruce.‘—Eveorrtucs 1:110; ﬁpznpov, The bird! he"
claim an early origin. The allusion probably is to the mundane egg,
cud the birth of winged love.
“ ‘ Hut_from that commizture ruse heat-en, sea, and earth,” é'C.~—EU‘LL'_“7
wuu un' (51-:pr {ripolg eyrmr' upavog, out:on rs, and 7!], narrow 1's
Grow anmpuv yuoc dethrov. Literally,‘onc thing being mingled with
another, heaven, ocean, and the earth, and the incorruptible race of -
all the immortal gods were produced.‘
“ I1 is evident from this passage that those whom the Greeks
nn‘ounted their gods were the elements, the heavenly bodies, and
other works of creation."-- Kirby.
' Encyclopedia Britannica.
6
16 ran mscovnav or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
- - ---- A-:_-=BW- _._ .
the cause, the matter proceedingfrom the Father
is the agent, the kind of matter is celestial, and the
effect is a perfectly organized egg; our universe,
having impressed upon it this primitive form,
became identiﬁed with the animal origin, and con
sequently must be subject to the laws of animal life,
which exists successively in the oval, the foetal,
and the locomotive state.*
> Of the size of the primitive ovum, we can only
reason from analogy; we can compare a root to
the seed whence it sprang, and we may, therefore,
form some conclusion respecting the size of the uni
' “ Of the various systems of the cosmogony, according to the
Hindoo writers, scarcely any one has been hitherto exhibited to the
public in all the varied accounts from lndia, which does not mention
the importance of the egg in the production of creation. In the
Ayeen Akbery, the conjunction of Brahma and Teree is said to have
produced an egg, which Mahadeo divided into two parts; of one
half the Dewtahs, or all celestial beings, were formed; of the remain
ing half all terrestial beings. The idea of the golden sphere above
mentioned probably took its rise from the same source, and even the
great triple divinity, Brahma, Veeshnu, and Serve, are, in other
Hindoo treatises of the cosmogony, said to have been formed
from three eggs, dropped from the womb of Bhavani, the ﬁrst created
woman, and consort of Seeva, the last person in the divine triad.
As Brahms, the ﬁrst person in the Hindoo triad of Deity, was pro
duced from an egg, so it is not a little remarkable that the very
same kind of origin, in the hymns attributed to Orpheus, is allotted
to the ﬁrst-born deity, (the sun.) denominated Phanrs by the Greeks;
and it should not be forgotten, that, in the Orphic mysteries, the egg
was considered as the emblem of generation and fecundity; whence
it probably arose that the egg was also of principal importance in
the sacriﬁces to Cybele, the fruitful mother of the god.“—-.Maunre's
Ancmz! Hindooslun.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 17
verse in its solid or oval state, from the magnitude it
now offers to our contemplation, in its'ﬁuid or foetal
life. In Matthew, xiii. 31, we learn that “The king
doni pf heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed,
which a man took, and sowed in his ﬁeld; which, in
deed, is the least of all seeds, but when it is grown
it is the greatest amongst herbs, and becometh a tree,
so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the
branches thereof.”* It must be recollected that the
diamond, which is the most solid species of matter,
can expand itself so as to ﬁll all space. Dr.
Priestley observes, “ WVe can form no conception of
the beginning of perfect solidity, and it is not an
improbable conjecture, that all the elementary
matter employed in theformation of the solar sys
tem, might be comprised in the capacity Qf a
nutshel And Newton asserts, that “an inch of
air rariﬁed would ﬁll all the planetary regions
to Saturn, and this globe of earth, with all the
known bodies of the universe together, might. be
compounded of no more than one inch of solid
matter.” “A seed,” as the Scripture saith, “shall
serve Him: it shall be accounted to the Lord for a
generation.“ Psalm xxii. 30. Every ovum or
' “All these things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables;
and without a parable spake he not unto them: that it might be fulﬁlled
which was spoken by the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in
parables; I will utter things which have been kept secret from the
foundation of the world.“ Matthew, xiii. 34, 35.
C
18 THE msoovsnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
*LJTN‘_‘——-_~Tw__ﬁ___ __ _
seed is bounded in its nature; it cannot extend
beyond certain limits. Having attained a deﬁnite
size, the primitive ovum entered upon its second or
fatal stage of existence. The question may, in
deed, have ere this suggested itself to the mind of
my readers, “Will not this tremulous agitated
mass of volatile ﬂuid matter become worn out with
hard labour and agitation: will it not stagnate and
become putrid, changing its form into one lifeless
inorganic mass, differing, however, from the ﬁrst?"
This question answers itself: putrefaetion always
precedes a new state of animal existence. In
Matthew, xiii. 33, the “Kingdom of heaven is
likened unto leaven, which a woman took and hid
in three measures of meal .till the whole was
leavened.” “The word leaven is applied to any
mixture which makes a general change in the mass,
and signiﬁes something that depraves or corrupts
that with which it is mixed, or is used to express
any kind of moral contagion.“ Davy says, “That
during the putrqfactimz or change of certain ani
mal and vegetable substances, light is emitted;
and this is no more difﬁcult to account for than
the heat produced during similar operations.”
Perfect matter is always threefold, and in the
primitive ovum the three forms of matter, solid,
ﬂuid, and elastic, were united in ones}- The
" mcyclopmdia Britannica, 'l' The case with every ovum.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 19
change of the ovum to its fmtal state of existence,
took place as follows: the centre, by continued
gravitation or pressure, must have increased in both
density and magnitude. This accumulation of solid
particles into one mass, must, at some deﬁnite
period, have produced friction or electricity. The
centre, once inﬂamed, must have attracted the sur
rounding matter into one condensed focus, and
while continually attracting, and drawing in this
manner towards its centre, must have likewise
been throwing off towards its surface; the particles
thrown of in a state of combustion, upon reaching
a certain distance gravitating from loss of heat.
This centre of inﬂamed diamond, constantly un
dergoing the process of combustion, is our sun,
the heart, or ﬁrst formed organ of the foetal uni
verse, from which all the other heavenly bodies
have been formed in progression during the second
stage of animal life, (the ﬂuid or foetal) lmder
which our universe now exists.
c2
20 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
CHAP. II.
F(ETI'S OF THE UNIVERSE.
THE foetal life of this universe commenced with
the ﬁrst spark of electricity, elicited by friction in
the centre of the ovum: on entering into this second
stage of existence, primitive matter became changed
from the oval to the cordiform shape,* which trans- '
formation took place in the follo“ ing manner.
Heat, with some few exceptions, is well knovm
to ascend. In boiling a kettle of water (to use
this very familiar illustration), the heat com
mences from the bottom (or source), and forces
its way up to the top, forming in its ascent a line
of levity, till it ﬁnally escapes and gravitates as
steam. Now the particles thrown off from the ovum,
in the ﬁrst instance, must have been projected
upwards from the boiling point of matter, forcing
their ascent in proportion to the violence of the
stroke by which they were propelled. Losing
gradually their elasticity, or ﬂuid heat, these
‘ Another vital analogy beta can the universal origin and that of
living creatures.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 21
atoms, in falling, must have described the shape of
a heart, and all converged to the freezing point,
which, we perceive, must be situated on the line of
gravity of the ovum immediately underneath its
apex, or coldest portion. This lower part of the ovum
answers to the bottom of a kettle, which is always
Comparativer cool, while its top is in aboiling state.
from this freezing point through the
centre of the ovum to the oppo
site extreme or boiling point of its
surface, it will cut the poles of our
“mm... “mm. sun, and form the line of Apsides,
uhich is the spine or gravitating line of the fcntus.*
This line extends to the extremities of the universal
sphere, dividing the sun or heart into two cavities,
similar to the structure of that of a human beingrf
In the line of gravitation are situated the powers
of galvanism (or animal magnetism), and elec
tricity; both of which belong to animal life, and
result from gravitation or pressure. Galvanism is
elicited from ﬂuid or boiling atoms, electricity from
solid ones. Electricity, at the freezing point,
' Aphclion is the point in a planet‘s orbit farthest from the sun:
Perihelion is that point in the orbit of a planet which is nearest to
the sun, which point is called the lower Apsis. The line joining
the two points, or Apses, is called the line of Apsides.
" The primordial egg of the Brahmina was divided into two
parts.
22 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
awakens thelatent spark of life; galvanism prescribes
bounds to it: the central point on the line between
these two forces of galvanism and electricity being
our sun, the seat of life of the foetus; life being, by
these two opposite forces, kept active. The matter
which becomes electric by means of heat, it is well
known, is thus made to diverge: this species of
matter identiﬁes itself with that thrown oﬂ‘ at the
South Pole (or positive point of the universe), and
conducts electricity: the law of repulsion by which
such matter is caused to diverge, is situated in the
point of galvanism; hence a spark is elicited and
the matter diverges in the heart form. The non
conductors, on the other hand, require friction to
produce electricity: such is the quality of matter
in the negative or freezing point of the gravitating
line, the North Pole of our universe, where is
situated the force of attraction, by which it is made to
unite and become electric; but no visible spark is eli
cited, though one is certainlythe resultof such union.‘
" “ Kant, and the disciples of his school, declared for that theory
respecting matter, most of the tenets of which had before been pro
pagated by the Abhé Boscowitch. They contended that matter was
the consequence of two forces, contrm-tiim and extension, or, in plainer
terms, utlraction and repulsion; and believed that if the ﬁrst power
existed unopposed, all the works of nature would be contracted into a
mere point; whilst, on the other hand, if the latter force was alone in
being, they maintained that the materials composing the world,
instead of being compressed into a nutshell, as has since been re
marked, would be expanded equally over boundless space. In a
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 23
The matter at the boiling point is in a ﬂuid state,
that at the freezing in a solid or crystalline condi
tion. Between the two extremes of the line of
gravitation, all matter contained within the system
of the universe is constantly ascending and dc
scending from a state of complete rest to one of
perfect activity and power, and vice versa,* the
word, the followers of the German Philosopher occupied precisely
the same position as different materialists have done both before and
since. They considered the present sublime appearance of nature,
the snow-capped mountain, the towering rock, the whole produce of
the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms,—the boundless ocean,
the atmosphere, and the bright blue sky, to be the result of a balance
between the two forces, attraction and rcpnlsion.“—Hiley's Atomic
Thmry. Life, in the centre of the gravitating line, kept active by
these forces, is the balance; repulsion, which causes the matter to
diverge, is the scale; attraction, which causes it to contract within
certain limits, is the compass. Here then are the natural balance,
scale. and compass. of all matter.
*“ Lord Verulam‘s two hands of nature, whereby she chieﬂy
workI-th, heat and cold, synonymous according to some, with positive
and negative electricity; the plastic nature of Cudworth and some
of the ancients; the spirit of nature of Dr. Henry More; and the
ether of Sir Isaac Newton, all seem to express or imply an agency
between the Deity and the visible world, directed by Him. Attrac
tum and repulsion, centripetal and centrifugal forces, or universal
gravitation, all imply a povver or pOWPrs in action, that are some
thing more than names and nonentities, that are moving in two
directions, and consist of antagonist forces."--Kirby.
"Among the ancient philosophers, Aniximander believed that
heaven consisted of heat and cold mind ,- Archelaus, that the causes
of generation were two, heat and cold,- and Annximenes maintained
that the contraction and condensation of matter was cold, thc laxation
and rarity thereof, heal."—Stanlc_y.
24 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
whole is still the same matter of which the ovum
was composed, but existing in a diifercnt state:"“
it is still divided, as was the ovum, into threeforms
of matter in one; the solid centre or sun, in its
state of combustion, the undulating ﬂuid which
surrounds it, and an a'érial or elastic boundary, which
prescribes the size and ﬁgure of the ftntus, and is in
fact its web of life. All these three several divisions,
(which will hereafter be particularly described,) as
they increase in size extend the line of gravitation
(by which they are retained in their proper places,)'
the whole mass expanding gradually into the
space or matter within which they are enclosedxi'
' “ A change of condition does not imply a change of substance.
A particle of matter may at one time be in a ﬂuid, at another in a
solid, at another ins gaseous state; it may he now a part of a pebblr,
now of an oak, now ofa man; but it is still the same particle. Its
condition is changed; it exists in different states; but it is sub
stantially the same.”—Dr. Crombic's Natural Theology.
-i‘ “When a bird's egg is examined. it is found to consist of three
parts: the chick. the yolk in which the chick is placed, and the
white in which the yolk swims. The yolk is lighter than the white,
and it is attached to it at two points, joined by a line, or rather plane,
below the centre of gravity of the yolk. From this arrangement it
must follow, that the chick is always uppermost, roll the egg how
you will; consequently, the chick is always kept nearest to the breast
or belly of the mother, while she is sitting. Suppose, then, that any
one acquainted with the laws of motion, had to contrive things so as
to secure this position for the little speck or sac in question, in order
to its receiving the necessary heat from the hen; could he proceed
otherwise than by placing it in the lighter liquid, and suspending
that liquid in the heavier. so that its centre of gravity should be
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 25
Several facts come under my attention in this
place as corroborative of the preceding theory.
“If iron ﬁlings be shaken through a sieve upon
a paper that covers a bar magnet, the ﬁlings will
become magnets, and be arranged by the incum
slum- the line or plane of suspension? Assuredly not; for in no
other way could his purpose be accomplished. This position is
attained by a strict induction; it is supported by the same kind of
evidence on which all physical truths rest. But it leads by a single
step to another truth in Natural Theology, that the egg must have
been formed by some hand skilful in mechanism, and acting under a
knowledge of tlynurnics.“—-Lord Brnugllam's Natural Theology.
"ln contemplating the stars, it is observed that some of them have
the singular property of neither rising in the east nor setting in the
west; but seem to turn round one uuinvariablc point, near which is
placed a ringt'e star, called the pole, or pale star. This point is more
or less elevated according to the different parts of the earth from
which we take our view. The inhabitants of Lapland, for instance,
see it much more elevated above the horizon, or more vertical, than
we do; we see it more vertical than it appears to the inhabitants of
frame or Spain; and they again, see it more elevated than the
inhabitants of Barbary. By continually travelling south, this star
woJld at length seem depressed in the horizon, and another point
would appear directly opposite to it. round which the stars in the
southern part of the horizon would seem to turn. In this part of
the heavens, however, there is no star so near the pole as there is in
th" northern part; neither is the number of stars in the southern part
of the heavens so great as in the northern. Supposing us still to
travel southward, the north-pole would then entirely disappear, and
the whole hemisphere would appear to turn round a single point in
the south, as the northern hemisphere appears to us to turn round
the pole star. The general appearance of the heavens, therefore, is
that of a vast concave sphere, turning round two point: ﬁxed in the
north and south parts ofit, once in twenty-fourhours.“—Enc_yclap¢dih
Brmmnira.
Thu north is the electric, the south the galvanic or heart-shaped
cud.
26 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
bent magnet into very beautiful curves. Upon the
two ends of the magnet, the ﬁlings stand, prepon~
derate, and seem buttresses of arches that would
stand over the magnet; on the sides of the magnet
they slope or incline, and seem buttresses of in
clining arches; so that if ﬁlings could be sustained
all round the magnet above and below, they would
probably assume an egg-like ﬁgurell This I con
ceive to be favorable to the idea of a positive and
negative magnetism. Electricity, in its efforts to
produce an equilibrium, always acts in curves; so
does magnetism."
“If I place two bar magnets about two inches
from each other, in a line, and with a positive to a
negative end, and place paper over them, and sift
ﬁlings as before, they will be arranged in beautiful
curves.”
Mrs. Somcrville says “What magnetic proper
ties the sun and planets may have, it is impossible
to conjecture, although their rotation might lead,
us to infer that they are similar to the earth in this
respect. According to the observations of MM.
Biot and Gay Lussae, during their a'érostatic expe
dition, the magnetic action is not eorgﬁned to the
surface of the earth, but extends into space. A
decrease in its intensity is perceptible, and, as it
‘ Lydiard on Metals.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 27
most likely follows the ratio of the inverse square
of the distance, it must extend indeﬁnitely.“
“The Stoics, who uniformly contended for the
spherical ﬁgure of the earth and planets, contended
at the same time for the spherical ﬁgure of the
universe itself; and, indeed, appear to have
advanced the spherical ﬁgure of the universe as a
reason why the stars and planets should partake
of a similar conﬁguration; believing that the same
kind of gravitation existed through the universe at
large, which they contended did exist throughout
individual planets: by which the universe was kept
in perpetual action, and the earth, and every other
orb, was continually tending towards one common
centre. This opinion of the Stoics, however,
respecting both the universe and the solar system,
' “ The centre of gravity of the solar system lies within the body
of the sun, because his mass is much greater than the masses of all
the planets and satellites added together.—Future astronomers will
know, from its immutability or variation, whether the sun and his
sitendants are connected or not with the other systems of the universe.
Should there be no link between them, it may be inferred from the
rotation of the sun, that the centre quravity oft/1e system situate within
lm muss, describes a straight line in this invariable plane or great equator of
the solar system, which, umﬂ'ccted by the changes of time, will main
tain its stability through endless ages."—Mr|. Sommille.
“ Wth law, for instance, can be more simple than that of gravita
tion, to which all material bodies, whatever be their size, ﬁgure, or
other properties, and whatsoever be their relative positions, are
equally subjected ; and of which the observations of modem astrono
mers have rendered it probable that the inﬂuence extends to the
remotest regions of space !"--Dr. Roget.
28 THE nrscovnnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
as to their moving around, and tending towards
some common centre, is corroborated by modern
observations. The common centre of universal
nature, in the opinion of Dr. Herschel, consists of
a mass of opake and chaotic matter, (P/zilos.
Trans. vol. 84,) from which he thinks it probable
that all the systems of the universe have been
emitted by some strong projectile force, not dis
similar to the sudden explosions which frequently
take place in volcanoes and earthquakes.“**
It is worthy of notice on the present subject,
that galvanism, or animal magnetism, has the power
of evaporating diamonds, and that gem “when
rubbed, whether rough or polished, shows positive
electricity; whereas quartz, and the other precious
stones, if rough, afford negative electricity; but
when polished, positive electricity. In general, it
does not retain this electricity above half an hour.
It becomes phosphorescent when exposed to the
rays of the sun.”#
The line of gravitation is frequently mentioned
in Scripture as the pillar; or the rod of iron:
' “ Epicurus also believed that in the centre of the universe exists
a vast mass of elementary matter, whence primitive atoms are perpe
tually ﬂowing forth."—M. (Joud.
't‘ Jameson‘s Mineralogy.
1 “ it was customary with the heathens to worship stones formed
in the shape of a pillar, which they rendered sacred by anointing with
oil, in the name of the deity they intended to represent. When this
ceremony was performed, the ignorant idolaters who fancied that
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 29
in Exodus, xiii. 21, we ﬁnd, the Lord went before
the children of Israel “ by day in a pillar of a cloud,
to lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of
ﬁre, to give them light; to go by day and night:
He took not away the pillar of the cloud by day,
nor the pillar of ﬁre by night, from before the
people." And, in Job, xxvi. 11, we are told that
“ the pillars of heaven tremble at the reproof of
Got ." It is recorded that Anaxagoras “observed
in the heavens a great unaccustomed light, of the
likeness of a huge pillar, and that it shined for
many days."*
their gods could not hear them but when they were visible, supposed
that the inwlligences by which the sun and planets were animated,
took possession, in some unaccountable manner, of the consecrated
pillars, and were as well pleased with the prayers and praises offered
up before those pillars, as with the devotions which were addressed
towards the luminaries themselves. Hence Sanchoniathon calls them
animated or living stones, Airinmqnlw xnvc, from the portion of the
Dii inc Spirit which was believed to reside in them ; and as they were
dedicated to the host of heaven, they were generally erected on the
tops of mountains; or, in countries which, like Egypt, were low and
level. they were elevated to a great height by the labour of men."—
Ency. Britannica.
' “ The parhelia, or mock suns, usually have a stream of white
pwamidal light extending like the tail of a comet from them. The
Zodiaral light is also a pyramid of light which sometimes appears
before sunrise, having the sun for its basis; the cause is not certainly
known; but the most probable opinion is, that it proceeds from rays
"flight thrown 08' from the sun by his rotation on his axis.“—Pinnock.
This must he a manifestation of the line we have described, and the
reason such appearances are of unfrequent occurrence must be the
thickness of our atmosphere. The Zodiml light generally appears
30 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
When, therefore, I have occasion to mention
this pillar, I must not be understood to speak of
an immaterial and ﬁgurative object alone, as of
“about October and March, that being the. time of our shortest
twilight; for it cannot be seen in the t“ ilight.“—-]I»i¢l.
Plato says that “ matter. as far as it put on the ﬁgure of a pyramid,
became ﬁre, and mounted upward: for that ﬁgure is the most easy
to cut and to divide, as consisting of fewest triangles; and therefore
is the rarest of all ﬁgures.“—blunlcy.
“Our English word pyramid (says a very ingenious writer in the
“ Gentleman's B‘Illglllilll,“ for June 1794,) is directly derived from
the Latin pyrmnis, and mediately from the Greek rrvpalug; all denoting
the same mathematical ﬁgure. The original of the whole seems to
be the Egyptian word pj/rumoua, which, we are told by Oriental
scholars, signiﬁes light, or a ray of light. From this coptic rumble
the word 1W9, in Greek, signifying ﬁre, is probably descended; as
the ﬂames of ﬁre assume that conical or pyramidal form which the
solar rays commonly display: and as it is natural for the mind to dis
tinguish its objects rather by their external qualities, and those obvi
ous and interesting appearances which they exhibit to the senses,
than by their constituent and inseparable properties.
“ The ancient Egyptians seem to have penetrated very far into the
mysteries of nature, and although their superstition appears at ﬁrst
sight to be extremely gross and absurd, yet it is very probable that
their deities were only emblematical pcrsonages, representing by
sensible images the grand eﬂ'ects or presiding principhs which they
supposed to exist in the universe. Thus the moon was called lsis,
and the sun Osiris; and to the honour of the last deity, from whose
visible inﬂuence and creative energy all things seem to spring into
existence, it is not improbable that the Egyptians erected those
stupendous monuments, and dedicated them to him as temples or
altars. It was natural to build them in that shape which the rays of
the sun display when discovered to the. eye, and which they observed
to be the same in terrestrial ﬂame, because this circumstance was
combined in their imaginations with the attribute which they adored.
If they were temples dcdicated to the sun, it seems a natural conse
quence that they should likewise he places of sepulture for kings and
illustrious men, as the place which they covered would he considered
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 31
lines used to express certain ideas in geometry,
but of an actual substantial line or pillar which
as consecrated ground. This hypothesis is common, and is not con
tradicted by the present reasoning. But, considering them as sltsrs,
and as most travellers agree that they were never ﬁnished, but termi
nate in a square horizontal surface, it would not be reﬁning too much
to venture an assertion that, in great and solemn acts of adoration,
the Egyptians constructed ﬁres, the ﬂames of which should terminate
in the vertex of the pyramid, and so complete that emanation of
their deity which they admired and adored.
“ As far, therefore, as we are justiﬁed in forming any conclusion on
so dark a subject, we may venture to say, that the Egyptian pyramids
were temples or altars dedicated to the sun, as the material repre
sentative of that invisible power which creates, governs, and pervades
the whole system of nature.“ Ency. Brilunniva.-“‘The sun was
worshipped as a deity by the Persians, Africans, Egyptians, and
Phtenit-ians; indeed, nearly all the heathen nations, especially under
the symbol of ﬁre.’ The temples dedicated to the sun, or the deity
of ﬁre, were each of them denominated a pyramid. which is almost lite
rally l‘i—Ur—Am—Ait ; and with the contraction P‘Ur—Am—Ait,
‘ the place of inspiration of the radiant Ham,‘ or, ‘ Ham of the
Sun.‘ They were built upon one model, and it is easy to perceive
that this model was deduced from the ﬁgure of an ascending ﬂame of
ﬁre, which originates with a broad basis, and terminates in a pointed
apex. Egypt and Hindu abound with buildings of this description,
and the Pagodas of (him! do not essentially vary from it. Hercules,
who is a deity of high antiquity among the eastern nations, and, in
reality, is only another name for Jupiter or Ham, is denominated
from radicals altogether analogous with the term Pyramid; for it is
literally l'n—(‘al—Es, ‘an eminence dedicated to the eﬁ'ulgence of
fin-f or rather, ‘ an ascending flame of ﬁre.” And the descendants
of the Heraclidm, in India, are to this day denominated Surya Bans,
which is literally ‘children of the sun.‘ This appellation, indeed,
children or descendants of the Sun, of Xuth, or Jupiter Ammon,
was, in a more restricted sense, conferred upon the heroes of antiquity
alone; but, in a more general sense, upon all mankind, since Hammon,
or Ham the Sun, was worshipped as the common father of all."
—Mas0n Good.
ti
32 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
passes through the body of the solar system, on
which the sun revolves, and on which also is per
formed every action of the matter within his sphere;
in the southern or upper half, by the force of
repulsion; in the northern or lower, by that of
attraction; both these laws being subordinate to
the primary one of gravitation, by which the line
itself was formed.*
I have shown how the sun was formed,
“ The golden-tressed snn, whose radiant lamp,
Earth, ocean. and the fane of Heaven hedews;“
this central adamantine mass, like the heart in
the foetal economy, was the ﬁrst formed organ in
the universe, whence the other heavenly bodies
' “ Homer, in his Iliad, describes ‘a golden chain which connects
the earth and Heavens, from which God and man are alike suspended.‘
Plato conceived, that under this ﬁgure, the poet meant to represent
the sun, whose animating inﬂuence, as he travels through the ecliptic,
connects and binds the whole system together. Milton has given
this a literal meaning, for, with a manifest reference to the passage
before us, he represents Satan as looking towards the eternal throne,
and beholding
“Fast by, hanging on a golden cluin
This pendant world.“
Llason Goofs Notes on Lucretius
“All is linked together,“ said M. Cuvier, in alluding to the
creation, “all is dependant; all existence is chained to other existence,
and that chain which connects them, and of which we can only see
some comparatively insigniﬁcant portions, is inﬁnite in extent, in
space, in time."
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 33
have all owed their successive existence and sub
sequent support."‘ The sun is the seat of life in
the celestial ftctus, the dispenser of all its laws; he
is the primary source of all motion,+ heat, and light,
and his sphere comprises the whole universe.
' “Throughout all the world, the ﬁrst object of idolatry seems to
have been a plain unwrought stone, placed in the ground as an em
ble ofthe generative or procreative powers of nature. In its origin
this seems to have been of a very simple and inoffensive character,
though at last it came to be abused to the grossest and most super
stitious purposes. In all parts of India, these stones are to be found
under the name of Linghams. They are many of them of immense
size, and generally stand near some magniﬁcent temple. I believe
there is no instance of any temple being found without them. It is
probable that most of them, at least of those that are very ancient,
were themselves the ﬁrst objects of adoration, and that the temples
were built near to them, as in a place of peculiar sanctity. In time
the idol within the temple might take away part of the veneration
from the pillar, but yet it is always considered with profound respect
and veneration. They are seldom any part of the building of the
temple. They are mostly cones, with the top shaped into the form of a
Iuart. They are known to he emblems of the creative power. The
Ty rians had two near Tyre, and probably the pillars of Hercules
were stones of this description, set up by the Phamicians.“
Higgim‘: Celtic Druids.
+ Quintus (‘urtius declares it to have been an immemorial custom
among the Persians, for the army never to march before the rising of
the sun; that a trumpet, sounding from the King's pavilion, pro
claimed the ﬁrst appearance of its beam, and that a golden image of
its orb, inrlosed in a circle of crystal, was then displayed in the front
of that pavilion, which diffused so wide a splendor that it was seen
through the whole camp. Roused to action by the solar ray, when
the army begun to move, they regulated the order of their march by
the motions of their celestial leader. They bore aloft the expressive
symbols of his magniﬁcence in bestowing upon them light and heat;
and they kept constantly before their eyes a conspicuous memorial of
his own diurnal progress through the expanse of heaven. Imme
diately after came the Magi, chanting hymns, after the fashion of
D
34 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
“ One common soul
Inspires, and feeds, and animates the whole,
This active mind, infus‘d through all the space,
Unites, and mingles with the mighty mass.“--Dr_yden.
The whole of this vast machine of the universe
has progressed from one simple solid egg of diamond.
This egg, the heart and centre of our sun, (see
diagram, page 21,) is in a constant state of com
bustion, throwing 011' from its mouth or cavity“
particles of boiling hot diamond, which liquid
ﬂame'f' rises to a certain height by the combustion
their country, in honour of Mithra. Then followed 365 youths,
representing the days of the reformed year, and clothed in vestments
of a bright red or ﬂame colour. To these succeeded the chariot of
Jupiter, (that is, the God qftheﬁmmment, the Eendra of the Hindoos,)
drawn by white horses, and followed by one of exceeding magnitude
and superior beauty, called, “the Home of the Sun,“ and, in a
peculiar manner consecrated to that deity. The grooms appointed
to train and conduct these horses were arrayed in white garments,
and bore in their hands golden rods, or wands, pointed at the end in
imitation oft/re solar m_|/.“-—1lfuurire’s Ancient Hindoostnn.
' Anaxilnander supposed the sun to be surrounded by a hollow
circle, like a chariot wheel, full of ﬁre; in one part of which he says.
“there is a mouth at which the ﬁre is seen as out of the hole of a
ﬂute, which is the sun, equal in bigness t0 the earth.“ This philo—
sopher, as well as Anaximenes, believed that the stopping of this
hole, out of which the ﬁre issues, occasioned the sun‘s eclipse."
—Stanl<y. Anaxagoras also believed the sun to be “a burning
plate or stone, many times bigger than Peloponnesus.“—-Stanlqy,
In the origin of heat we found that the flame ascended. “The ﬂame
of the comet goes before the wind it floats and [lies in; consequently,“
says Finleyson, “it must be the head and not the tail: the ﬂame of
the candle is called the top, not the bottom, and the ﬂame goes with
the wind, and new-r can go against it.“
1' The philosopher, Zeno, was of opinion, that “the sun being
ﬁery, is either like that ﬁre which is requisite to the uso of life, or
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 35
or electric force with which it is projected“ from
the body of the sun, and then losing its heat, gra
vitates (as water does from a fountain) to his apex,
which is naturally adapted for the deposition of
planetary bodies. Here the matter becomes sta
tionary, uniting by the attraction of cohesion
into the primitive or oval form, and in this way
have all the planets been ﬁrst generated from the
body of the sun in the order of their respective
orbits, from Mercury outwards to the Georgium
Sidus, each becoming in turn the extreme point of
cold, (or apex of the universe,) and extending the
sphere of the foetus. With respect to the creation
unto that which is contained in the bodies of living creatures; but
this our ﬁre, which the use of life requireth, is a consumer of all
things, disturbeth and despatcheth all things. On the contrary, the
other is corporeal, vital, and salutary; it conserveth all things, it
neurmheth, increaseth, sustaineth, and aﬁ‘ecteth with sense; there
fore,‘ saith he, “ there‘s no question to which of these ﬁres the sun is
like, for he causeth all things to ﬂourish and sprout up, according to
their several kinds.“--Stanlc_y.
“ By this the ﬁre, through whose fair beams
Life from above to mankind streams,
ls kindled in our hearts, which glow
Dying, yet dying greater grow;
By this immortal fountain ﬂows,
Which all Heaven forms below, bestows;
By this descends that shower of light
“'hich upwards doth our minds invite;
By this the eternal sun inspires.
And souls with sacred lustre ﬁres."
Stanley's Plato.
' “ Matter moves always in the direction in which it is struck.“—
Dr. Ritchie.
n 2
36 THE mscovamr OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
of planetary matter, Whewell, in the “Bridgewater
Treatises,” enquires, “How came the sun and its
atmosphere to have such materials, such motions,
such a constitution, that these consequences followed
from their primordial condition? How came the
parent vapour thus to be capable of coherence,
separation, contraction, solidiﬁcation? How came
the law of its motion, attraction, repulsion, con
densation, to be so ﬁxed, as to lead to a beautiful
and harmonious system in the end? How came it
to be neither too ﬂuid nor too tenacious, to contract
neither too quickly nor too slowly, for the successive
formation of the several planetary bodies? How
came that substance which at one time was a
luminous vapour, to be at a subsequent period
solids and ﬂuids of many various kinds? What but
design and intelligence prepared and tempered this
previously acting element, so that it should, by its
natural changes, produce such an orderly system?
And if, in this way, we suppose a planet to be
produced, what sort of a body would it be? Some
thing, it may be presumcd, resembling a large
meteoric stone. How came this mass to be covered
with motion and organization, with life and hap
piness? What primitive cause stocked it with
plants and animals, and produced all the wonderful
and subtle contrivances which we ﬁnd in their
structure, all the wide and profound mutual de
pendencies which we trace in their economy? Was
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 37
man, with his thought and feeling, his powers and
hopes, his will and conscience, also produced as an
ultimate result of the condensation of the solar
atmosphere P“
All the phenomena of this universe are the result
of the condensation of the solar atmosphere: the
law by which this is effected is gravitation; and
the varieties depend entirely on the degree in which
this law is effected.
“Nor deem it strange that so minute a sun
Should pour forth ﬂame suﬁicient Heaven to ﬁll,
And earth, and ocean, and whate'er exists,
'l‘inge with its glittering dew; for, from abroad
The myriad seeds of ﬁre, dispers‘d at large
Through all things, here as to their fountain ﬂow,
And hence well forth o'er all th‘ exnhing world
In boundless ﬂood: see’st thou how small a. spring
Feeds with its liquid treasures mearls, full 0ft,
Of amplest breadth, and all their glehe o'erﬂows?"
llfason Guud‘s Lucretius.
Every molecule or particle of the sun’s matter
is as perfect as his own body; like the sun itself, it
has a pole or axis, one end of which has the power
of repulsion or galvanism, the other that of attrac
tion or electricity.* When projected, these par
‘ Dr. Prout says, that “The powers of gravitation, inertia, and
attraction, appear to be associated, and to reside in every individual
atom of matter in the universe: hence every atom mutually attracts
and is attracted by, every other atom. The polarizing forces, on the
other hand, are evidently disassociated, and reside in dw'erent parts of
the same man: hence, this mass can in no instance be a mathematical
38 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
ticles undergo a change of temperature, their exte
rior becoming cold or condensed: thus, the centre
of the particle becomes the boiling or warmest
portion, the part surrounding that centre being
gradations from the point of extreme heat to the
point of extreme cold in the exterior, (which exterior
answers to the universal boundary.) The heat of each
ray thrown off in a ﬂuid state by combustion, is de
posited at the apex or smaller end of the carbonized
egg, beneath which it falls in the process of
crystallization.* Thus do these primitive particles
descend in the universe, through the successive
degrees from the point of extreme heat to that of
extreme cold: 8. portion of their elastic ﬂuid lost
by them in their progress, forming a vein or
travelling case, by which they are protected to the
point (or atom), but must consist of at least two part: ,- hence, also. as
all matter appears to possess polarity, matter must exist in the state
of mass or molecule, each of which molecules must occupy actual space
Thus, the form-s of gravitation and those of polarization are quite
distinct. The forces of gravitation are primordial, and probably
co-existent with matter; while the forces of polarization have more
of a derivative or resultant character, and are evidently subordinate
to those of gravitation.“
* “ The particles of all solid bodies that can be dissolved by heat,
or held in solution by ﬂuids, have a tendency to unite when slowly
cooled or evaporated, and to arrange themselves into regular forms,
called crystals. ' — Bakewcll‘: Geology.
“ Every animal texture appears to be formed from matter that was
originally in a ﬂuid state; the particles of which they are composed
having been brought together, and afterwards concreting by a process
which may, by a metaphor borrowed from physical science, be termed
animal ciysfallisaiion."——])r. Roget.
6
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 39
place of destination and likewise attached to their
primary, the heart: this answers to the sides which
Sir Isaac Newton believed each ray or particle of
the sun to possess.* The place of deposition for
planetary matter is the point of attraction, and here
the egg, whose progress we have just traced,
encounters another egg, thrown off from the
opposite direction of the heart; this, like the former,
is in a crystalline condition, and the two eggs, by
the force of attraction, become incorporated into
one, which is the seed, embryon, or corner-stone
of the planetary body about to be formed. By
cutting each other, the two eggs would form a
central yolk, a medium, and a circumference; while
__ the line of gravity, joining their
,/ \ centres, would be common to both,
forming for the planet a line of
electricity, similar to that of the uni
verse, but on the most minute scale ri
(see diagram, in which A is the sun,
B the planetary body.) Nothing belonging to this
° “ ‘l'hy should the nebulous matter grow cooler and cooler? Why
should it not retain for ever the same degree of heat, whatever heat
be? If heat he aﬂuid, if to cool he to part with this ﬂuid, as .some
ph'losuphers suppose, what becomes of the ﬂuid heat of the nebulous
m-mtr, u the matter cools down? Into what unoccupied region does
it ﬁnd its way f"--Whewell.
+ “ Mr. Cunningham, Surgeon R.N., has lately made the interesting
diu'overy of electric conductors being, to a certain extent, also mag
netie conductors, and of non—electric conductors being non-magnetic
conductors; thereby adding another powerful proof to the many
40 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
universe could ever have been in a state of chaos, the
single atom presenting the same order and harmony
as the perfect whole. Keith says, “The centre of
gravity of two bodies is a point, on which, if they
were both supported by a line joining their centres,
they would rest in equilibrium.” This mode of
forming the planets is expressly alluded to in the
following scriptural passages: “He stretcheth the
North Pole out of c/mos,* He hangeth the world
upon nothing.”*{* And in the Lord’s question to Job,
already existing of the identity of the electric and magnetic bodies.
The above result was obtained by placing successively in a copper
wire. helix, connecting the poles of a galvanic battery, pieces of steel
and of iron, either united end to end by brass solder, or simply re
tained in close contact in the above position by a copper tube, ﬁtting
tightly round the point of junction, eath needle being found, on
removal from the helix, to be a perfect magnet with two poles, the
same as if it had been constructed in the usual way, of only one
piece of steel. No interchange of magnetism took place when the
union of the pieces was cﬁ'ected by sealing-wax, or when the inter
vening brass was an inch long, the greatest extent of solder between
the magnetized pieces being the twelfth of an inch. When two pieces
of iron or steel were placed at a distance from each other in the
helix, each piece became a distinct magnet; but when approximated
nearer, they closed with a snapping noise, and formed a single magnet
between them, one piece becoming a North Pole and the other a
South. This construction ofa magnet promises to be of importance
in preserving, to a greater extent, the magnetic properties of the
marincr‘s needle; even soft iron, which under other circumstances
loses its polarity as soon as the magnet is removed, being found to
retain it. when united in pieces as above."-Morning Chronicle, 1835.
* Job, xxvi. 7.—“'I‘he North, or North Pole, is here used synce
dochally for the heavens at large, the inhabitants of ldumaaa knowing
nothing of the South.“
1‘ Thus, in the words of the. poet,—
“ Earth, self-balanc'd, on her centre hung."-—Milton.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 41
“\\here wast thou when I laid the foundations of
the earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding,
who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowcst?
Or who hath stretched the line upon itP’l" Whereupon
are the foundations thereof fastened? Or who
laid the corner stone thereofP" Every corner stone
or foundation of an ediﬁce is laid in the commence
ment of the structure, and thus the matter in
the point of attraction, originally consisted of layers
of those primitive particles, one above the other:
these layers being contained within the descending
cone formed by the line of gravitation and the
travelling-case or boundary of the ﬁrst two
eggs, (sec diagram, page 39;) the whole mass
being deposited in much the same fashion as that
in which the female gnat places her eggs'f' Thus
' “ Plato says that the earth is ﬁxed in the midst of all, round
about the axletree, which passes through the midst of the world. It
is the observer of night and day, the most ancient of all gods in heaven.
Next the soul of the world, it aﬂ‘ordeth us most nutriture; about it
the heavens more, and itself is a kind of star; it remaim't/l in its propu
p'urc, which, 1: reason of its even weight, is the centre.“—Slanle_|/.
‘l' The following is the method employed by the gnat in depositing
its eggs. “ Each egg is shaped like an olive or a powder-ﬂask, and,
by itself, would sink to the bottom of the water; yet the gnat puts
the whole three hundred together so skilfully, that they all swim on
the surface, safe and unhurt, until the larvae, or grubs of the gnats,
are hatt had. A gnat has six legs; the four fore-legs she rests on a
ﬂoating leaf, or on the side of a bucket, if she is in water contained
in 51“ h \pssvl; and her body is thus held level with the water, except
the last ring of her tail, which is a little raised. She then begins
to use her two hind-legs, which she crosses in the shape of the letter
X. the open part of which, next the tail, serves its a kind of scaﬂ‘old
for the egg! she lays, until the boat is nearly formed. Each egg,
42 'rus: DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
the sun being porous, his materials ﬁlter through
the sides of his body into the cone formed by the
deposition of the planet; all natural machinery
being constructed in such a manner as to perform
the double ofﬁce of a fountain, and also of a ﬁltering
machine. All superﬂuous matter is thrown otl' by
the ﬁrst function from the mouth or cavity of the
heart, and gravitates to its apex, forming a deposi
tion of matter for building organs for the primary:
by the second function those organs are supplied
with nutriment.*“ Thus has planet after planet
when laid, is covered with a sort of glue; the gnat holds the ﬁrst
laitl egg in the crossed legs until the second is placed by its side and
fastened to it: she then glues to these another egg, making a triangle
or three-sided ﬁgure; and this is the beginning of the boat. Thus
she goes on piling egg upon egg, always keeping the boat in proper
shape by her useful hind-legs; and, as it grows in size she pushes it
from her by degrees, still adding to the unﬁnished end next her body.
When the boat is half-built, her hind legs are stretched out like two
parallel lines, and she holds up the boat as cleverly as if it were done
with two outstretched arms. [t possesses not only the form but most
of the other properties of a boat, its fore and bind parts being
sharper and higher than the middle; the lower part on which it
always ﬂoats being convex, and the upper part concave. It is like
wise so buoyant that no agitation of the water, however violent, can
sink it; and. what is still more worthy of admiration, although hol
low, it will not sink. Mr. Kirby says, ‘to put this to the test, I put
half-a-dozen of these boats upon the surface of a tumbler half-full of
water. I then poured upon them a stream of that element, from the
mouth of a quart-bottle held a foot above them. Yet, after this
treatment, which “as so rough as actually to project one out of the
glass, 1 found them ﬂoating as before, and not a drop of water
within their cavity.‘"—Chumbers' fdiulmrgh Journal.
* “ Many ﬂuids contain minute masses of matter. generally having
a globular shape, which can be seen only by means of the microscope,
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 43
i m _=_: ; _mw_w__” ’
been formed, and continued to enlarge by absorb
ing“ fresh nourishment from the parent sun: like
their primary, they have progressed from a minute
to a deﬁnite sized~ and during their solid or oval
state of existence, they have been ﬁxed upon the
line of gravitation in a state of latent heat};
The density of the planets increases as their
orbits rccede from the sun, and they may be com
and which ﬂoat in the surrounding liquid, and often thicken it in a
very sensible manner. “'e next perceive that these globules have, in
many instances, cohered, so as to form solid masses; or have united
in lines, so as to constitute ﬁbres. We ﬁnd these ﬁbres collecting and
incurring together in bundles, or interwoven and agglutinated, com
posing various other forms of texture: sometimes resembling a louse
network of ﬁlaments; sometimes constituting laminae, or plates; and
at other times both plates and ﬁlament combining to form an irregular
spongy fabric. These various tissues, again, may themselves be re
garded IS the constituent materials of which the several organs of the
dey are constructed, with drferent degrea q/ complication, according to
la" respctinjimctimu which they are called upon to pafurm."-—Dr. Roget.
‘ “ A usurption encreases the sire of a body.“—I)r. Ritchie.
'l' “ Microscopic observations teach us that the embryo of an organic
being contains, at a certain period of its formation, the rudiments of
the future vegetable or animal structure, into which it is gradually
transformed, by the slow and successive expansion and development of all
in parts. The subsequent processes of nutrition do nothing more
than ﬁll up the outlines already sketched on the living canvass."
l)r. Rl‘g't.
} “Anaximnnder believed that the stars are globous substances,
auxin-ting of air full of ﬁre, rcspirzngflamc: at some (‘u'lalu purl.“ He
was of opinion, “that their substance was ofa ﬁery nature, invisible,
earn-'y bodies intermide with them; and that they are inherent as
mm; in crystal." Archelaus, the Greek philosopher, maintained,
-- that ﬂow were burning iron platen“ and Anaxagoras imagined,
"that falling stars are shot down from the other as sparkles, and
ghcrgfure soon extinguished. "—Stanlcy.
44 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
pared to the several metals;““ Mercury, the most.
volatile, being placed nearest to that luminary.
This may be illustrated in the words of Bentley:
* “It has not hitherto been satisfactorily accounted for that we de
signate the planets in astronomical, and metals in chemical science, by
the same characters, otherwise than that the astronomy of the Greeks
came to us through the Arabians, the supposed inventors of che
mistry; but to those who are chemists, it must be evident that those
ancient Chaldeans who were acquainted with the nature and wonderful
properties ofﬁrr, and who on that account adored it as a divinity,
could not possibly be strangers to so exalted and noble a science.
In fact, astronomy and chemistry were sister sciences in those early
days, and this mode of designating the different planets and metals
by congenial characters descended to the Arabians from an older
school, even from that of Zoroaster and the Persian Mithra; in the
sacred cavern-temples of which deity, we have observed from Celsus,
the planets were ﬁrst designated according to the various metals.
In fact, they thought that those planets were composed of, or at least
principally abounded in, that species of metal by which they were so
distinguished, or else in a high degree possessed qualities resembling
those metals. Thus, the sun, being the brightest of the orbs, was
represented by a circle, the symbol of perfection; and gold, being the
most pure of metals, was symbolized by the same ﬁgure. The moon
being the next orb in apparent purity and brightness, was shadowed
out by silver, the second in rank of the precious metals; and the
crescent became the discriminating character of both. Mars was
thought to abound in copper, because his aspect isof a dusky red
colour. Mercury is the symbolic character of quicksilver, not only
on account of the brilliant whiteness which his lucid orb displays, but
because his progress through the Heavens was made with rapidity,
like the motions of that active and penetrating metal. Saturp, on
the other hand, whose slow motion among the ﬁxed stars is scarcely
perceptible, is properly enough symbolized by that lead of which his
astronomical designation is the chemical character; there is likewise
in lead a bluish cast, which is in a very marked manner the colour of
that distant orb. Though this difference in the colour of the planets
may not be so strikingly perceptible to astronomers in the foggy
atmosphere of the British islands, yet in the cloudless sky and pure
air of Chaldea, it doubtless was distinctly discernible. The elder
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 45
“Suppose the earth removed, and placed nearer to
the sun, in the orbit of Mercury, there the whole
ocean would boil with extremity of heat.” Prout
observes, in the Bridgewater Treatises, “ Since there
is nothing peculiar in the elements of which
organized beings are composed, and no reason can
be assigned why carbon and other elements have
been chosen for their formation, we are compelled
to ascribe the choice of these materials to the will
of the great Creator. But, as He never acts with
cut a purpose, we cannot doubt that these elements
have been selected for some speciﬁc design, which
design has probably been, that the fabric of the
beings dwelling on this earth, might be adapted to
its general position in the solar system. When we
consider that the same heat and the same light are
diffused by the same central sun; that the whole
Cassini, who observed the planet Venus in Italy, was enabled, in the
ch ar atmosphere of that country, to make discoveries, which his son
afterwards in vain attempted to verify in the grosser one of Paris.
Indeed the. ('haldeans are said to have made the same observations in
regard to the various colours of the ﬁxed stars, which require still
nit-er inspection; and from those colours, in their romantic schemes
of judicial astrology, they assigned certain series of them to one
planet, and certain other series of them to another. Those of a blue
tinge they made kindred with the house of Saturn; those ofa reddish
tinge, with Mars; those of a yellowish cast, they said belonged to the
house of Venus; those of brilliant whiteness, to that of Jupiter. The
dazzling Mercury had his allies in the vast expanse; and the same
infinenceswhich emanated from the silver and golden rays of the solar
and lunar orbs, were supposed to be equally diﬂ'used from those orbs
whit h were of congenial hue.“—-Mnurice‘l Ancient Hindoostan.
46 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
system obeys the same laws, and that the different
planets inﬂuence and are inﬂuenced by each other;
we are warranted in believing that the planets are
essentially composed of the same elementary prin
ciples. But, admitting that the heat and light
of the sun are distributed according to the laws
which they seem universally to obey, the heat in
Mercury close to the sun, and the cold in Saturn
at the other extreme, must be alike so intense,
that organized beings, such as inhabit this curl/1,
could not exist for a moment. In the different
planets, therefore, may not the living principle be
attached to different elements, more or less ﬁxed
or volatile, as the distance of the planet from the
sun may seem to require?” The quality of the
materials composing the planets depends entirely
on the degree of gravitation exercised in their
deposition: the greater this is, the more solid or
metalline must be the relative composition of their
respective inhabitants. The matter deposited for
the formation of the heavenly bodies is per
fectly solid and crystalline in its nature. Sir
Isaac Newton’s opinion upon this essential quality
of primitive matter has been already quoted, and
in addition to the before mentioned passages we
ﬁnd the following in that philosopher‘s works.
“ While the primitive and solid particles of matter
continue entire, they may compose bodies of one
and the same nature and texture in all ages; but,
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 47
should they wear away or break in pieces, the
nature of things depending upon them would be
changed. Water and earth, composed of old worn
out particles, and fragments of particles, would
not be of 'the same nature and texture now, with
water and earth composed of entire particles at
the beginning; and therefore, that nature may be
lasting, the changes of corporeal things are to be
placed only in the various separations, and new
associations and motions of these permanent par
ticles; compound bodies being apt to break, not
in the midst of solid particles, but where these par
ticles are laid together, and touch in afew points.”
Celestial matter is simple, terrestrial, compounded,
which accounts for the variety of combinations of
matter developed at our planet; all changes being
governed by the one primary law, gravitation; and
the consequent law of attraction or crystallization.
“ If we are to reason at all, we can reason only
upon the principle that for every eﬁ'ect there must
exist a corresponding cause; or, in other words,
that there is an established and invariable order or
srquence among the changes which take place in
the universe.“ Gravitation is, in this process,
the cause; crystallization, the effect. “In all its
varied changes, the form of the law determines in
what manner the fact shall take place; the mag
‘ Dr. Roget.
48 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
nitude determines how fast, how far, how soon.
The one draws the plan, the other gives the
scale. If either were wrong, the result would be
wrong."*
Every particle of matter sent oil from the sun’s
body is impressed with the same laws which have
regulated him; 'for the same principle of life which
exists in the universe at large, is to be identiﬁed in
its most minute point: thus the planetary body
exists successively in the three stages of animal life,
which are the oval, the fmtal, and the locomotive.
Now, the power of matter arises from accumulation
of its particles, and its changes are caused by con
densation. By these means, at a certain period, the
planet must have changed to the foetal or ﬂuid state
of existence. The pressure occasioned by the con
tinued absorption of matter by the planetary ovum,
must have eventually produced friction or electricity
in its centre. “Two pieces of ice being rubbed
together, heat enough is produced to melt them.“+
Thus the hitherto solid and inert mass would
acquire ﬂuidity: every particle of ﬂuid terrestrial
matter creates its own a'érial or elastic boundary,
and thus the planet would assume the threefold
division presented by the earth in the several forms
of matter in the mineral, vegetable, and animal
kingdoms}
° \Vhewell. 'l‘ Thomson.
1 All matter by changing from a solid to a ﬂuid state becomes
organized.
OR. PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 49
With the perfection of these three forms of
matter, the ﬂuid or active life commences; it is,
however, more than probable that the duration of
the oval, existence of the planets depends in a
great measure upon the formation of the next organ
beneath upon the line of gravity.
I. Let us consider B, diagram 1,
// the planet Mercury, deposited
,; [A > from the sun, point A. Until a
/ planet was formed beneath, it
\ / is clear that Mercury would
b have no atmosphere in which
to revolve upon his orbit, be
cause three portions of that
‘orbit, (see diagram 2,) must
have extended beyond the
sphere of the universal foetus.
When, however, Venus was
formed beyond it, (in C, diagram
2,) the objection being removed,
v ‘ Mercury would acquire the ne
\ cf cessarysphere of action. Another
strong argument in favour of this supposition
may be found in the circumstance that the con~
CllSlell of two particles, in the foundation of a
planet, produces an electric spark. This spark may
be called, the lamp of life: it is continually elicited
in the point of attraction, the North Pole; and its
eﬁ'cct when produced in point C, diagram 2, would
E
50 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
be that of charging the planet B with electricity?
For a deﬁnite period this process would con
tinue, when the latter, becoming perfectly charged,
would commence its active life by removing from
its position on the line of gravity, leaving free
passage for the electric ﬂuid to circulate through
the line up to the sun’s body, and allowing the
planet C in its turn to experience the genial inﬂu
ence of the parent stem. This continuous stream
of ﬂuid electricity, is incessantly working its way
upwards, forming a complete current through the
very heart or centre of the universesi~ The planet’s
motion on its orbit commences, in fact, in precisely
the same way that the ball rises in the steam ap
paratus described in the subjoined note ;1 the
* A body heated to a certain degree becomes self-luminous.
Brande.
'l' “ According to a curious memorial, published by Professor
Olmsted, it appears that a meteoric cloud of numerous ﬂitting stars
circulates round the sun like a planet, and comes very near the earth
at that point of its orbit which correspondswith November. The cen
tral point of this mass of luminous bodies is ﬁxed by the American
astronomers in the constellation of Leo."
ﬁlm ning Chronic/e, Nov. 11, 1836.
1 “ Improvement in Sfeam Enginrs.-We have received from the
inventor, Mr.J0seph Price, a drawing and description of his improve-l
Steam ('hest and Safety Valve. Instead of the common valve, there
is placed on the top of the steam-chest a cup. with an aperture for the
steam to escape. In this cup a loose brass h Ill (weighted to th
pressure the boiler can hear) is placed. When the steam rises above.
that pressure. the ball also rises, and allows the steam to escape
through the waste-pipe. There is an elbow-pipe connected with the
steam-chest below the ball-seat, which also enters the waste-pipe. lu
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 51
peculiar swiftness being dependent upon the
quantity 'of heat absorbed from beneath, which
overcomes the pressure that had hitherto kept its
body in a state of rest.
\Vhewell observes, “the sun might become, we
will suppose, the centre of the motions of the
planets by mere mechanical causes; but what caused
the centre of their motions to be also the source of
those \ivifying inﬂuences? Allowing that no in
terposition was necessary to regulate the revolu
tions of the system, yet observe what a peculiar
arrangement in other respects was necessary, in
order that these revolutions might produce days
and seasons. The machine will move of itself, we
may grant; but who constructed the machine, so
that its movements might answer the purposes of
life? How was the candle placed upon the candle
stick? How was the ﬁre deposited upon the hearth,
so that the comfort and well-being of the family
might be secnrch. Did these, too, fall into their
this is a handled valve, by which the engineer can blow off his steam
or regulate it. If the ball cannot be weighted by the engineer so soon
as the steam rises above the safety pressure, it escapes, and when
sufﬁciently blown oil, the ball returns to its seat. By this ingenious
cc-mrivancv, which has been in operation for seven years, the fatal
accidents which so often occur are effectually prevented."
lilorm'ﬂg Chronicle, Oct. 29, 1835.
Archimedes said, with apparent, but only apparent, extravagance,
“ Give me a place to stand upon, and 1 will move the earth!“ This
place is the point in which the next planet beyond the earth passed
it's solid or oval life; and, by that planet‘s forre thence directed
against the earth, its revolution round the sun commenced.
£2
52 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
places by the casual operation of gravity? And if
not, is there not here a clear evidence of intelligent
design, of arrangement with a benevolent end?"
The centre of the planets, like that of the sun,
is the seat of active life, and in both it is occasioned
by pressure. When the planets are removed from
their position upon the line of gravity, they carry
away with them a portion of it in their own bodies
on which they revolve. This subtracted part of the
natural magnet forming their axis, is as perfect in
its properties as the whole:* it has the same powers
of attraction and repulsion, electricity and mag
netism: it has, in short, bl come a North and South
Pole of the planet, by the properties of which that
body is retained in its orbit, and having completed
its revolution around the sun, naturally returns to
its old position.
“These various orbs behold, in various speed,
Pursue the journeys at their birth decreed;
Now, from the centre, far impell'd, they ﬂy,
Now, nearer earth. they sail a lo“ er sky,
A ahortenﬂ course. Such are the laws impreat
By God's dread will, that will for ever best."
Illirklr.
“Since the earth moves with the greatest velocity
in that part of ,its orbit nearest the sun, it must
complete its journey through one-half of its orbit
‘ See page 2] of this chapter.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 53
in a shorter time than through the other half; and,
in fact, it is about seven days longer performing
its summer half of its orbit, than its winter half.“t
The sun being the source of all motion, light, and
heat, it is obvious that the course of the planets must
be regulated by him. The winter, or freezing point,
is the place whence they all start upon entering
into the active or ftntal life. The summer quarter
is the exact reverse of this at the opposite end of
the line. the galvanic; ascending in its orbit, the
planet has to pass in the summer over the direct
mouth or heart of the sun, encountering the full
stream of his rays perpendicularly directed to its
body. In passing round the orbit, the planet endures
every change of temperature from extreme heat to
extreme cold, according to its change of position,
as regards the sun’s body, (or rather the qualities
of the matter it encounters thence, in each suc
cessive situationﬂ~ The planet, in its circuitous
‘ Library of Useful Knowledge.
1' “ Besides the motions which we observe in all these planets. their
app'irI-nt magnitudes are very different at different times. Every
pt rson must have observed that Venus, though she constantly appears
“ ih great splendor, is not always equally big; and this apparent
diii'ereni-e of magnitude is so remarkable, that she appears no less than
thirty-two times larger at some seasons than at others. This increase
of magnitude is likewise very remarkable in Mars and Jupiter, but
less so in Saturn and Merrury.“—-Enry Brit. There can be no
doubt that the planets all expand and contract as they change their
position with regard to the sun. Thus Venus, whose body in com
parison to the sun is as one to eight in the freezing point, would be
{our times that size when situated in the boiling point over the mouth
o! the universal heart. 3
.
54 THE DISCOVERY or ran VITAL PRINCIPLE,
progress around the sun, puriﬁes that luminary of
its old materials,—-by the absorption of which, it
increases in growth, and in turn acquires power to
purify itself. Thus the ascending body acquires
bulk by the addition of fresh materials, until
having reached the extreme point of its orbit it
is forced to descend, still continuing to absorb,
and to radiate in proportion to its newly acquired
strength, till it is ﬁnally deposited in the electric
point whence it ﬁrst started. The eifect of this
process upon the line of universal gravitation is
that of elongation, which is caused, in the galvanic
point, by the planet's struggle to ascend; in the
electric, by a proportionate eﬂon of that body to
descend, from increased weight. Thus the whole
mass of the universe grows, or bulges outwards,
with the extension of its fundamental line. The
spring. or ascending portion of the solar system,
answers to the right hand of the celestial foetus, the
descending portion to the left.* The lines formed
by the sun in depositing his materials at the freezing
point are cordiform'iv and distinct from those formed
° “ Heaven hath the threefold difference of position, upwards and
downwards, backwards. and right and left, for these are proper to all
animate things which have the principle of motion within themselves.
The right side of heaven is the cast, for thence begins its motion;
the left side, the west; and consequently the arctir pole is lowermost,
Nu antarctic uppermost." Suehwas the opinion of Aristotlc.—S!rm/r_y.
'i‘ “Though we have thus described the motions of the planets with
respect to their apparent distances from the sun, they by no means
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 55
by the planets in moving upon their orbits. The
former are descending vessels and veins of the
fuetus,——the latter, which are oval, and enclose
the others, are the arteries. Each planet has
this double set of vessels, by which it is connected
in the magnetic and electric points with the uni
versal line, and, consequently, with the heart,
through which that line passes! The sun ejects
matter in a positively electric state for the support
of the various organs within his sphere, and a pro
portionate quantity is returned to him in exchange
in a negative condition. “The currents of positive
appear to us to move regularly in the Heavens, but, on the contrary,
in the most complex and confused manner that can be imagined,
sometimes goingforward, sometimes backward, and sometimes seeming
to be Slntmllary. They all seem to describe looped curves, but it is
am known when any of these curves would return into themselves,
except that of Venus, which returns into itself every eighth year. On
each side of the loops they appear stationary; in that part of each
lot p near the earth, retrograde; and in every other part of their
path. direct.“--Enr_u. Britannica.
‘ Between these two points the sun's matter is constantly ascending
and descending throughout the whole universe. “ In man, who is
called a mirrvt‘osm, or world in miniature, there is as incessant a
return of the blood to the heart in a negative state by one set of
\ mm, as there is an issue of it in a positive state by another. The
lungs also inspire the air in one state, and expire it in another; and
by this alternate ﬂux and reﬂux, life is maintained; but suspend it
beyond a certain period, and death is the result. Again, the rivers
are constantly discharging their waters into the sea by one channel
and receiving them back again by another. Plants, likewise, and
animals, derive their nutriment from the earth and from the Heavens,
and under other forms return it again to the sources from which it
ﬂowed. So that it seems to be a general law, that where there is an
aﬂlux there must also be an inﬂux."-Kirby.
56 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
electricity set from the centre to the circumference,
and the negative from the circumference to the
centre, and rice berm, according to the position
of the magnetic poles, and the direction of
rotation.“* By this efﬂux and inﬂux the sun and
planets increase in growth and strength. What
is given off from the sun in quantity is always
repelled back in quality: the distance of each
planet from the sun being determined by the
increased power of the matter employed by him
in its formationﬂ" and each fresh organ being a
multiplication of strength to the heart. “ M. Hiiny
conceives the phenomena both of magnetism and
electricity, to be produced by the simultaneous
action of two distinct ﬂuids”: “The anatomist
has examined the living body, and has there ob
served, that all motion proceeds immediately from
the muscular ﬁbre that the muscular ﬁbre again
derives its power from the nerves which terminate
" Mrs. Smnervillc.
1* “ All the master planets more about the sun at several distances.
as their common centre, and with different velocities. This common
law being observed in all of them. that the squares of the times of the
revolutions are proportional to the cubes of their distances."—Greuu
1 Mason Good.
1| “ The simple, or elementary ﬁhre, about which so much has been
written, may be considered as the pliilusopher‘s stone of physiologists.
ln vain, has Haller himself, in his pursuit of his chimera, told us,
that the elementary ﬁbre is to the physiology what the line is to the
geometer, and that as all ﬁgures are formed from the latter. so are
all the tissue: formed from this ﬁbre.“
Richemml‘s Eleman qf Physio/vell
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 1 57
in the brain; that ﬁbre, and nerve, and the whole
system are nourished by the blood that comes from
the heart, and that the Waste of blood is supplied
by the lacteals which absorb nutritious matter from
the food as it passes along the intestinal canal."
“ All. all is :u-tion: the vast whole alike
Moves in each part; and from material seeds
Umws. undiminished, its eternal food.“
Alas-on Good's Lucretius.
Each of these planetary bodies is a little sun within
itself; once awakened from its oval or crystalline
state, it will produce and reproduce, ad inﬁnitumﬁ“
The greater the distance of the planet from the
sun. the source of heat and light, the greater we
find the powers of condensation, attraction, and
repulsion bestowed upon it; by these natural means
it is enabled to form for itself moons, belts, &c. to
direct its course through the heavens. The moons
belonging to these planets have been projected
from their respective bodies in the same way
that they were themselves, in the ﬁrst instance,
from the sun.+ They are governed by the same
‘ “ It is contended by Dr. Darwin, and other writers on vegetable
physiology, that each annual shoot should be regarded as a collection
of individual buds, each bud being a distinct individual plant, and
the whole tree an aggregation of such individuals."—Dr. Roget.
f "The Great Creator of the universe has exercised in its construc'_
tion the severe!" and most reﬁned geometry, has traced with unerriug
pm-iqion the boundaries of all its parts, and has prescribed to each
rlrml at and narli [mu er, its respective sphere and limit."—Dr. Ilngit.
58 Tue mscovnar or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
laws, and compelled, like them, to pass through
three stages of existence, of which the present is
the fcetal, or ﬂuid, in which they reVOlve round their
primary, circulate with it round the sun’s body,
and experience the inﬂuence of the universal tem—
perature, i. e. the changes of the seasons.
The third life of the planets has not yet arrived.
It will commence when the sun becomes perfected
in his fcetal state of existence; the whole mass will
then undergo a change to the aeriform state, as
one celestial organized being.
We have now described the ﬁrst two forms of
matter presented to us by the universe in its present
state.
The third species of matter in the celestial foetus
is aeriform, and it encloses the two former; the
solid and ﬂuid portions of the fmtus are contained
in or encircled by an aeriform boundary, or skin,
in which is situated the Zodiac, an imaginary belt,
or zone, so called from the Greek word zoon, an
animal, and zoe, life.
This belt is sixteen degrees in width, and is di
vided into twelve parts, each containing 30°, making
in all, 360°, which is the measure of the circum
ference of the foetus. If lines be drawn from each
of these degrees in the boundary to the sun's centre,
the orbits of the several planets will be divided in
a similar manner; and the gravitating line, which
passes through the centre of the ftetus, (uniting its
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 59
two extreme ends in the points of galvanism and
electricity), will be common to the several enclosed
masses, measuring 180° in each respective sphere:
in like manner all animal bodies may be conceived
with reference to their relative sizes, to have a
diameter of 180 parts and a circumference of 360.
Each of the twelve zodiacal signs has been, by
astronomers, named after some imaginary ﬁgure)“
That part of the aeriform mass not occupied by the
Zodiac is called the Galaxy, or milky way, thus
described by Milton.
“ A broad and ample road, whose dust is gold,
And pavement stars, as stars to thee appear,
Seen in the Galaxy, that milky way,
Which nightly as a circling zone thou serst
Powdered with stars."
Keith says that the Via Lactea is a “whitish lu
minous track, which seems to encompass the heavens
like a girdle of considerable, though unequal breadth,
varying from about four to twenty degrees. It is
composed of an inﬁnite number of small stars,
which, by their great light, occasion that confused
’ “ The Chaldseans divided the zone into twelve parts, and to each
of them assigned I particular ﬁgure, signifying some one of their
gods, whom they believed to be twelve in number. God made use of
a dodecahedron in the construction of the universe, whence there are
twelve ﬁgures of living creatures in the Zodiac, whereof each is
divided into thirty parts. Likewise, in a dodecahedron, which con
sisieth of twelve pcntagons, if each be divided into ﬁve triangles,
there are in every one six angles, so that in the whole dodecahedron.
time will be 360 triangles, as many as there are degrees in the
Zodiac.“—Plnto. Sec Sta/1113f: Lives oft/u: Philosophers.
60 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE.
whiteness which we perceive in a clear night, when
the moon does not shine very bright.""" This
acriform portion of the universe must inevitably
' “A very remarkable appearance in the Heavens is that called
the Galury, or milky-way. This is a broad circle, sometimes double,
but for the most part single, surrounding the whole celestial concave.
It is of a whitish colour, somewhat resembling a faint aurora horealis;
but Mr. Brydoue. in his journey to the top of Mount il-Itna, found
that phenomenon to make a glorious appearance, being, as he eu
presses it. like a pure ﬂame that shot across the Heavens.“
Ency. Britannica.
“ Falling Slum—in the Scotsman ofthe 29th ofJuly, 1835. we gave
an account of an extraordinary fall of meteors over a space ofa thou
sand miles in North America, on the l3th of November, 18.33. A
similar phenomenon was observed in 1531; again in 1832 in Ohio,
and at Orenbnrg, in Russia; by Humboldt also in I799; and all about
the same period, namely, the middle of November. In 1833 the
shower of meteors continued the whole night; and it was observed
that they seemed to radiate from one point. This point did not shift
with the change of the earth's position on its axis, but followed the
apparent motion of the stars; in other words. it continued ﬁxed in
one part of the Heavens (in gamma Leonis.) 'l‘heir height from the
earth was estimated at 2,000 miles. From these and other facts
Professor Olmsted, of Yale College, coiuluded that the falling stars
were portions of a nebula or body of tine combustible vapour. probably
like the tail of a comet, revolving round the sun in six months. which
portions were detached from the rest by the earth’s attraction, and
falling with immense rapidity, took ﬁre when they reached our at
mosphere. The subject has not escaped the attention of M. Arago.
whose profound knowledge of physics entitles his opinion to great
weight. He has adverted to it in a paper, of which we have a trans
lation in the I'Idmlnu-gh Philosophical Journal for July. He mentions
observations made in France, in November, 1835. conﬁrmatory of the
periodical occurrence of the meteors; rejects the idea of their ori
ginating within the atmosphere; and. alluding to the grand display
of them in America in 1833. says—‘ It is scarcely possible at present
to see any other mode of explaining the astonishing appearance of
these bodies than by supposing that, besides the large planets. the"
more round the sun myriads of small bodies, which are not visible
on, answnoov OF MAN. 61
vary in width: the coldest end of the foetus (the
electric) being contracted into narrow limits, while
the warmest (or galvanic) is proportionably ex
panded. All the luminous bodies contained in this
aeriform skin or coating of the foetus have been
deposited by the sun in the nebulous form (which
is oval), and, being aeriform, must be perfected in
three successive stages of existence, prior to the
change of the whole foetus to its third or locomotive
state of existence.
except when they penetrate into our atmosphere, and there become
inﬂamed; that some of these asteroid: move in a certain sense in
groups, and that others are insulated.‘ Again he suys—‘All these
fa- ts tend more and more to conﬁrm us in the belief that there exists
a zone mmponn' 43]" millions (f mall bodies, whose orbits meet the plane
of the ecliptic towards the point which the earth occupies every year
from the ll tb to the 13th of November. It is a new planelary world
jmt begi uu'ng to be rm-mled to us.‘ M. Arago‘s idea is, that millions
of globules, or small parcels of nebulous matter, circulate round the
sun in a t'urlr' r or whirlpool, which crosses the earth‘s path about the
middle of November; and some of these, drawn from their course by
the earth‘s attraction, take ﬁre when they reach the atmosphere. and
assume the form of shooting stars. He suggests that they should be
looked for at the opposite point of the ecliptic about the end of
April, and alludes to an observation of Messier, who saw, in June,
1777, at mid-day, ‘ a prodigious number of black globules pass
across the sun for abont- ﬁve minutes.‘ Might not these be asteroids?
This hypothesis explains the facts better than Professor Olmsted's;
for We may suppose millions of these small nebulous bodies revolving
at all distances and angles round the sun, but distributed unequally;
some moving singly, some in groups, or circular trains, and coming
in contact with the earth at any point of its orbit, less or more
frequently, less or more abundant in that part of space through
which it is moving at the time. We would thus account for the oc
rashmal appearance of falling stars at all seasons of the year."
Scotsman.
62 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL museums,
CHAP. ll].
MATTER.
“ What forms the mass,
Term‘d by the learned, Matter, seed: of things,
And generative atoms;
Atoms primordial, as hence all proceeds."
Lfason Good': Lucretiur.
ALL matter composing this universe is diamond;
but that material varies according to combustion.
At the point of extreme heat‘ it is in a perfectly
elastic, pure, and simple state; at the freezing point
it becomes condensed or crystallized into what we
term Iron. Now, all cnquirers into the origin of
matter have, by common consent, traced it to hy—
drogen and oxygen. I shall go a step farther, and
assert that diamond is the base of hydrogen: iron
that of oxygen. Hydrogen being matter in the
point of extreme heat, oxygen being the same
material in its most condensed state at the freezing
point. These two gases, when combined, constitute
water, which is our gravitating element. We
shall, accordingly, ﬁnd that the particles of matter
deposited by the sun at our planet are, in fact,
" We are speaking of the universal temperature.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 63
composed of diamond or hydrogen, and iron or
oxygen, accompanied always by a certain proportion
of carbon (or diamond in a cinereal state), all which
are to be traced to the simple diamond.
In order to identify these materials, it is necessary
to give a distinct account of their several properties
and qualities; I shall therefore subjoin the most
remarkable facts, adduced by writers of celebrity,
respecting each of them, beginning with the all
comprehensive diamond.
“ Diamond, adamas of the ancients, almas of
Persia, and been: of Hindostan, is the most brilliant
of gemsf'" and, although known from the remotest
times, if we may judge from the casual notice made
of it in Scripture, it had, in the earlier periods of
history, obtained little more than a name. Pliny
states that it bore a price above all things in the
world, and was known to very few, except princes
and crowned headsxf “It does not appear that
the diamond has ever yet been seen in a matrix,
which could he esteemed its original position”:
' Di'mmnd, (German,du, da, and Fr. la Diamant; ltal., Sp.,and Port,
Dim “mic; Rnss.. Almus; Pol., Dyamant; Lat., Adamas; Hind., Him ;)
a previous stone, which has been known from the remotest ages.-—Mac
Chew/f: Diet. of Commerce.
'r Em-yrlopmdia Britannica: “ The Diamant carieth the greatest
price. ndt olier among precious stones, but also above all things else
in the world; neither was it knowne for along time what a Diamant
was. llllllfsSP it were by some kings and princes, and those but very
fur."-—-Plin_y.
I l'lnvyclopmdia Britannica,
64 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
“In the places where this gem is found, it appears
quite out of its natural situation; nor has it yet
been discovered in what substance it was originally
formed.”* “The gem is conﬁned within the limits
of the tropics;”'§~ but the principal mines are in
India and Brazil.
In the former country, we learn from Heyne, that
the seven villages near which the diamond mines
were found, all belonged formerly to a powerful
Zemindar, named Opparow; but, for the last eight
years, the Mizmn has taken them under his own
management. The following account is given by
him of the discovery of this subterranean treasure :
“ It is said that, about a century ago, some moun
taineers found, at the foot of a bill, after a shower
of rain, some large stones, which proved to be
diamonds of inestimable value. Opparow, becoming
acquainted with this discovery, immediately set
people to work upon the hill, who found a prodigious
number of very large diamonds. The news of this
acquisition soon reached the Mizam, who was the
sovereign. He despatched his peons, and took
possession 0f the villages. Since that time persons
authorized by him are alone entitled to search here
for diamonds. Being unacqnainted with the nature
of the diﬂ'ercnt treaties which have been ratiﬁed
' Mawe‘a Treatise on Diamonds.
1’ Encyclopedia Britannica.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 65
since that period, I cannot inform my readers how
it came to pass that, even after the English East
India Company got possession of the Circar, these
villages were retained by the Mizam, though all
the rest of the country on this side of the Kistnah
was ceded. Tradition says that as soon as Opparow
was obliged to give up his mines, large stones
ceased to be found, and that the size of the diamonds
extracted from the earth never exceeded that of a
horse—gram, or chick-pea, though before that period
they were as large as common-ﬁints.
“ The traditional account of the discovery of the
diamond mine at Codavetty Kallu, one of these
seven villages, is as follows: A shepherd one day
found, near a ravine in the neighbourhood, some
stones, which appeared to him serviceable ﬂints.
He picked up several, and used them accordingly.
Some time after, the poor fellow, while at the resi
dence of Opparow, took, in an unlucky moment,
one of these stones out of his pocket, and employed
it to strike a light to kindle his tobacco. The stone
was observed by one of the rajah’s lambadiesf
whn, knowing its value, made enquiry how it had
comn into the possession of the shepherd. The
good man heedlessly related all that he knew. He
was conducted to the rajah, who easily prevailed
upon him to point out this unknown residence of
Stree Latchmie, the goddess of riches. The rajah
' Slaves
66 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
was on‘ this occasion so condescending as to go
himself to the spot, and was not a little surprised
at the riches which the goddess had reserved for
him. Penetrated with grateful sentiment to the
invisible harbinger of his good fortune, and to he
genius of the place, he immediately ordered an
oﬂ'ering to be brought, which, for more than one
reason, consisted of the head and blood of the poor
shepherd. His wife and children being found,
upon examination, entirely ignorant of the discovery,
were spared, and taken care of by the rajah, as long
as the mines belonged to him. Bullock loads of
diamonds were found, it is said, near that nullah,
until at length the Mizam, being apprized of the
discovery, claimed the ground as his own, and de
prived the Zemindar of it for ever. But he had
been so industrious, during the short time that the
mines were in his possession, that all the large gems
were removed, and the Mizam was able to obtain
only small diamonds of comparatively inconsiderable
value.
“I have very little doubt that the foundation of
this account is correct, though it may very well be
asked what is become of the bullock-loads of
diamonds? for at present the family of Opparow
is rather poor and dependant, and resident at
Ellore.""‘
‘ Heyne‘s Tracts on India.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 67
“There is a diamond mine of Soumelpour, or
river Goual. Soumelpour is a large town, built all
of earth, and covered with bunches of cacao-trees;
the river Goual runs by the foot thereof, in its
passing from the high mountains towards the south
to the Ganges, where it loses its name. It is from
this river that all our ﬁne diamond points, or sparks,
called natural sparks, are brought. They never
begin to seek for diamonds in this river till after
the great rains are over, that is, after the month of
December; and they usually even wait till the
water is grown clear, which is not before January.
A great sign that there are diamonds in it is the
ﬁnding of those stones which the Europeans call
thunder-stones.“
“At Banaganpilly, the diamond-mines, as they
are called, are scarcely anything but deep holes,
open at top; sometimes, indeed, the work is carried
on for some extent under the rock, which is then
supported by stone pillars. None are deeper than
twenty feet. The gallery under the rock is so low
that the people are obliged to work in it sitting; a
mode of working which an Indian prefers to any
other. The solid rock of the hills (which, by the
bye, is not destitute of diamonds,) is an aggregate,
consisting chieﬂy of a coarse grey hornstone, with
rounded pebbles of the same. species, or of jasper.
’ Encyclopaedia Britannica.
F2
68 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
At some depth this rock becomes a ferruginoux
sandstone, the grains of which are ﬁnely cemented
together. Through this solid rock they are obliged
to make their way, before they arrive at the bed in
which the diamonds are usually found. They com
mence at different places, as their fancy leads them,
with a spot about twenty feet square, which, by
iron instruments and SLl'L'l wedges, they break into
slabs and fragments of from one hundred to ﬁve
hundred pounds weight. In this way they sink to
the diamond-bed, which is ﬁfteen or twenty feet
under the surface; this bed extends round the whole
hill, and is as regular in its thickness and extent as
the other unproductive beds in the same place; it
consists of a conglomerate, composed of rounded
siliceous pebbles, quartz, chalcedony, and jasper.
The cement appears to be of the nature of clay or
waclie, and is small in quantity; thus, it appears
that tile diamond-bed is of the same nature Willa
the roclrs both above and below it; but if is (111%.
tinguisbed from them by its superior hardness.
This bed is seldom more than a foot in thickness;
and is intimately connected with the beds both
above and below it, and frequently differs from them
in nothing but the greater quantity of pebbles which
it contains. It appears, from this description, that
the diamond-bed here is a solid rock, whereas at
(Juddapah, and other places, it is in a state of
gravel.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 69
“The mass containing the supposed diamonds is
carefully cleared from the portions of the roof and
ﬂoor of the mine that may be adhering to it; it is
then carried to another spot of ground, where it is
broken into pieces, and gradually reduced, by means
of iron instruments, to the size of very small gravel.
The process followed for separating the diamonds
from the rubbish is almost the same as that observed
in other places.”*
“ At Ovalumpilly the diamond-bed is found under
a heel of red clay, about three feet thick; and many
undoubted alluvial tracts in India are celebrated
for the diamonds they aﬁ'ord.+"
Heynes, in his Tracts on India, says, “When I
passed (‘-henndr, a village about twenty miles north
from Nellore, I was informed that diamond—mines
existed in its vicinity; and that not many years ago
diamonds had been found there of the ﬁrst water,
or. as the Hindoos express it, male diamonds.
The black soil, and the capacious layers of calca
reous tuﬂ' below it, may he considered as indirect
proofs of the veracity of this assertion."
Other mines where this gem is found are in the
district of Serro do Frio, in Brazil. It is found in
the same manner as the gold, in the gullies of
torrents, and beds of rivers, or in yellow ferruginous
earth, under rocks of quartz and sand-stone;1
these mines are chieﬂy scours (as they are called),
' Jameson. 1’ Ibid. I Ibid.
70 THE DISCOVERY or run VXTAL PRINCIPLE,
on the surface of the earth. (Brazil borders to the
west on desarts and forests, held by savages; while,
in the interior, there are great chains of mountains,
mingled with superb vallies, and large fertile plains.)
Serro do Frio, or the Cold Alountai'ns, produce not
only diamonds, but are also very rich in mines of
iron, antimony, zinc, tin, silver, and gold: the
diamonds are supposed originally to exist in the
mountains; but they are more easily found in a
bed under the Vegetable earth, disseminated and
attached to a gangart more or less ferruginous and
compact. They are also found in the soil of the
mountains, in beds of ferruginous sand and pebbles
(often loose, but sometimes forming an ochraccous
pudding-stone), of the decomposition of (query/ft and
what is called boggy iron orerl- This gravel is
termed msckalo: and underneath there is a
‘ Emery is made use of to cut the gems.
'i' “ When a negro is so fortunate as to ﬁnd a diamond of the weight
of an octavo (l7; carats), much ceremony takes place: he is crowned
with a wreath of ﬂowers, and carried in procession to the adminis
trator, who gives him his freedom by paying his owner for it. He
also receives a present of new clothes; and is permitted to work on
his own account. When a stone of eight or ten carats is found, the
negro receives two new shirts, a complete new suit, with a hat and a
handsome knife. For smaller stones of trivial amount proportionate
premiums are given. During my stay at Tejuco a stone of l6! carats
was found: it was pleasing to see the anxious desire manifested by
the ofﬁcers that it might prove heavy enough to entitle the poor negro
to his freedom; and when, on being delivered and weighed. it proved
only a rural short of the requisite weight, all seemed to sympatliiro
in his disappointment.“-—-Mmrr‘s 'l'rrutue on Diamonds.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 71
schistus, somewhat arenaceous, and sometimes in
durated ore of iron. In the caschalo is also found
gold in grains.”"" “ All the diamond—mines of
Brazil are situated in mountains, which give source
to many streams that ﬂow north and south into the
river Tocantin on one side, and the Parana on the
other; those near the little river of Milhoverde,
not far from Van Nova do Principe, in the province
of Some do Frio, are in a S. L., according to La Cruz,
17", about long. 44° W. from London. This sin
gular substance is not certainly known to be pro
duced in any other part of the world, except
Hindoostan, and chieﬂy about the same latitude,
17° N. The river of San Francisco is remarkable
for passing a considerable way underground, after
it has attained a great size. The gravel in these
mines (or scours) consists principally of quartz,
mixed with oxide of ironﬂ~ and containing, besides
the diamonds, blue, yellow, and white topazes, and
grains of gold; and about six feet above the diamond
bcd are frequently found little black garnets”:
’ Pinkerton.
'l‘ “ Iron also accompanies gold and most other metals. so Mat :4
theorist might argue that they are all modiﬁcation: quon. It is also
remarkable that most of the metals are generally found together in
the same mine. Buﬂ'on, Min. III. 260, says he is so far from placing
entire conﬁdence in Parmentier, Recr. Chim. I. 339, who pretends to
have tinned mercury into gold by the acid of tartar; but, p. 348, he
says that gold and silver may be produced from iron, scoriﬁed with
sulphur, refreshed with lead, and afterwards melted in a coppel."—
Pinkﬂ'lrm.
{Juan-son. Pinkerton.
7‘. Tm; IllSCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
“ In the island of Borneo is also a high mountain,
whence are brought quantities of rock-crystal, and
among them are sometimes beautiful diamonds;
but the natives do not know the difference.“ Pliny
observes, “ the only stone it is that we ﬁnd in mines
of metal: very seldom it is, and thought a miracle
to meet with a diamant in a vein of gold, and yet
it seeincth as though it should grow no where but
in gold.” "To explain in a more particular manner
the general locality of the diamond," Mawe says,
" I will suppose a valley to be formed of mountains
of granite: through which runs a rivulet, having on
its margin gradually rising hillocks or plains, more
or less distant from the base of the mountains. It
is by analogy that the presence of the precious gem
in such a situation is to be inferred; hence a little
geological experience is highlyneccssary. Diamonds
having been found in ravines, formed by such
mountains, it is fair to presume that they may occur
in others of a similar character.”
“The diamond occurs in rolled pieces, in indeter
minate angular and spherical grains; also crys
tallized in the following ﬁgures'i'
‘ “ In the estates of the emperor of Borneo, in some pools, gold is
found in lumps. sometimes weighing from ten to twenty pounds. and
more; but the islanders are averse to draw it from the water, which
is as cold as ice, and even do not touch the large pieces. which they
idly regard as the matrices of the less.“-Piukerton.
“The word Sol, the Sun, was the name given to gold by the earlv
chclnists.“— gee Hooper": .llidical Dictionary.
f “ A very ﬁne. collection of crystallized diamonds is contained in
the British MuseuIn.“—Ju/m'wn_
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 73
“ lst. Regular octahedron, in which each plane
or face is inclined on the adjacent, under 109° 28’ 16”.
The faces are either straight or convex, and of these
varieties the corwea: or curvilinear are the most
frequent. This is thee/Tundamentalﬁgure, or that
from which all the other
may be derived} (and is re
presented in the subjoined /
diagram.) When the planes
of the octahedron become al~
temately smaller and larger,
it passes into
“ 2dly. A simple three-sided pyramid, which is
truncated on all the angles. Sometimes the apex
is very deeply truncated; and then there remains only
“ 3dly. A segment of the octahedron. Sometimes
two of these segments are joined by their basis,
and,form a twin-crystal."+
The diagram in Chap. I. (page 8,) of this work is
an octahedron with convex faces, in which each is
divided into sir/aces or planes. In this ﬁgure the
d'i'iding edges run from the centre of each face;
three to the angles, and three to the middle of the
edges. The crystal consists of forty-eight equally
curved faces, and has a rounded appearance. It is
railed by Haiiy, “ Diamant spheroidal sextuplé.“1
i ('alled by l’laiiy, le diamant primitif.
* Jmnemn.
I lhiil.-—“ The Indian is not engendered in mines of gold, but hath
74 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
In that diagram the form of an egg may be traced
in every direction. That it is common for the
diamond to be found crystallized as an egg, has
been there mentioned with some very remarkable
instances of the fact, and Pinkerton states that they
are often found in Succedana of the size of a pigeon’s
egg. “ The more common form is round, orﬂatted as
it were by attrition; but its crystallization is the
octahedron, or double quadrangular pyramid, and
the dodecahedron, with their varieties, and some—
times it occurs in cubes.”"‘
“At Banaganpilly the diamonds,” according to
Heyne, “are of an inconsiderable size, but usually
in crystals; and I dare say they would be all found
crystallized if another mode of extracting them were
adopted. Those found in the earthy beds are
mostly large, and less frequently of a regular form.
This difference seems to depend upon the local situ
ation. We may either suppose that the diamonds
in the loose beds have been so long water-worn as
to have been deprived of their angles, while those
a great aﬂinitie with crystal], and groweth much after that manner; for.
in transparent and clear colour, it diﬁ'ereth not at all, neither yet other
whiles in the smooth sides and faces, which it carieth hetwcene six
angles, pointed sharp at one end, in manner of a top; or else two
eontrarie waies lozenge-wise (a wonderful thing to consider), as if the
ﬂat ends of two tops were set and joined together: and for bignesse.
it hath been knowne of the quantitic of an hazel-nut or ﬁlbard
liernill."—Pliny.
* Jameson.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 75
in the stony bed have not been subjected to so much
attrition; or, if such an explanation be inadmissible,
we must suppose that in one case the crystallization
has taken place so slowly as to constitute regular
ﬁgures, while in the other case it has been hurried
and rapid, and has produced ﬁgures destitute of
regularity. There is something in the crystallization
of the diamond which distinguishes it from all other
crystals; the faces are all curvilinear, while in every
other species of mineral all curves seem to be con
stantly excluded. Are we to ascribe this difference
to anything peculiar to the diamond itself, or to the
slowness with which the crystallization was eﬂ'ected?
At present we can have no accurate ideas on the
subject, because we are not acquainted with any
substance capable of holding carbon in solution,
and, of course, cannot show the particular circum
stances under which its crystallization took place.
That some solvent of the diamond exists, we have
every reason to believe, from the way in which that
stone occurs; but it would be useless to speculate
on the subject till that solvent shall be discovered."
“ Le diamant au sortir de la mine est revétu d’une
erolite obscure et grossiere, qui laisse a peine ap
pereevoir quclque transparence dans l'interieur de
la pierre; dc sortes que les meilleures connoissures
m- peuvent pas ‘juger de sa valeur, ainsi encrouté,
on l’appelle ‘ diamant brut.’ "*
' inc}. on Diet. Raisonne des Sclt‘m‘cs.
76 THE DIscovERY oF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
*The surface of the grainsis either rough, gra
mulated, or uneven; that of the octahedrons gene
rallysmooth: in the dodecahedron, andotherforms
which originate from the truncation and bevelment
ofthe edges ofthe octahedron,the surface is rough
or streaked; andthat of the twin-crystal isgranu
lated. Externally,the smoothsurface ofthe crystals
is splendent; of the streaked, shining; and of the
rough and granulated,glimmering. Itis remarked
that the greater number of diamonds with curved
faces, have a dull surface.'*
* La premiere opération de la taille du diamant,
est celle par laquelle on le décroûte: mais cette
matière est si dure, que l'on n'en connoît aucune
autre quipuisse la diviser par le frottement, c'est
à dire en terme d'art, quipuisse mordre dessus; en
effet lorsqu' on frotte un diamant avec la meillure
lime, on use la lime,tandis que le diamant 1este
dans son entier; la poussiere du grès, du caillou,
du crystal,&c. est réduite sous le diamant en poudre
impalpable sans y laisser la moindre impression;
il a donc fallu opposer le diamant audiamant même
pour le travailler. On les frottes les uns contre les
autres pour les user, c'est ce qu'on appelle égriser
le diamans. Lorsque le diamant est decroûté, on
peutjuger de satransparence et de sa netteté."-
* Jameson.
* Encyclopedie ou lictionnaire Raisonné des Sciences, des Arts,
et des Metiers,par un Societé de gens de lettres.
* lans toutes les mines dont il vient d'etre fait mention. tant du
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 77
“ Transparency and purity comprehend what is
called the ‘ water of the diamond’ by jewellers.“
“ It is seldom completely transparent; more gene
rally it rather inclines to semi-transparent; but the
black variety is nearly opaque. The most frequent
colours of the diamond are the white and grey, and
of these the most highly prized by the jeweller is
the snow-white. A good diamond should be nearly
completely transparent. The colour should be per
feel!ycrystalline,resembling a drop ofclearspring
u-ater, in the middle of which you will perceive a
strong light, playing with a great deal of spirit."-i~~
“ It is found occasionally of a citron yellow, grey,
brown, or black, but very rarely green or blue":
“ it often happens that a stone will appear of a
reddish hue on the outward coat, not unlike the
colour (f rusty iron; yet, by looking through it
against the light, you may perceive the heart of the
stone to be white, and if there be any black spot or
ﬂows, or veins in it, they may be discovered by a
royanu- de Golcondc que de celui dc Visnpour. les diamans sont caches
dans la terre, de faqon qu‘on en apperuoit rarement en la creusnnt; il
faut la tcnir a la main. Dans in mine de Melwillée ils sont eucroﬁtél
dc sable, at on ne peut les distinguer des graviers qu‘aprea les avoir
Iroltcﬂ centre une pierre."—-Enry. ou Diet. Ruisonné.
‘ Jameson.
'l‘ Jameson. “ Diamonds are classed ﬁrst, second, and third water;
:4, Apply any other epithet of their inferiority than ‘ ﬂaw’ to the ‘king
of gemn,‘ would be derogatory to its dignity."-—Chambers‘s Journal.
: Pinkerton
78 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
true eye, although the coat of the stone be the
same, and such stones are generally good and clear.
All stones of a milky c0at,* whether the coat be
bright or dull, if never so little inclining to a bluish
cast, are naturally soft, and in danger of being
ﬂawed in the cutting; and though they should have
the good fortune to escape, yet they will prove
dead and milky, and turn to no account."+ -
“Concerning the fouls and other imperfections
that take from the value of the diamond, it is said,
that all diaphonous stones are originally ﬂuids, and
spirituous distillations falling into proper cells of
the earth, where they lie until they are ripened.
and receive the hardness we generally ﬁnd them of.
Every drop forms an entire stone, contained in its
proper bed without coats. While this petriﬁc juice,
or the matter which grows in the stone, is in its
original tender nature, it is liable to all the accidents
we ﬁnd in it, and by which it is so often damaged;
for if some little particles of sand or earth fall into
the tender matter, it is locked up in it, and becomes
a foul, black spot; and as this is bigger or less, so
it diminishes the value of the stone. This, at least.
is the mode in which fouls are accounted for. Holes
are formed on the outside of the rough diamond.
and must be occasioned by some hard particle of
“ Lime-Water is the test of carbonic acid. by turning it to a milky
colour.
1' Jameson.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 79
sand falling into the tender substance of the stones,
which not being heavy enough to sink into the
middle, remains on the outside thereof, like a black
spot, and, being picked oﬁ', leaves a round hole.*"
“ When examined with a microscope of great
power, the texture sometimes consists of irregular
ﬁbres, but is generally laminated, or composed of
minute layers, like the other genuine gems.”+
“ Some of the pebbles, when broken, have a pel
lucid appearance; others exhibit arborizations, or
dmdritical ﬁgures“: “The diamond exhibits a
most beautiful play of colours in the direct rays of
the sun, or in candle-light, particularly when cut." I
“ The value of the diamond is not derived solely
from its transparency and lustre: its remarkable
hardness is another and a most useful property be
longing to it ;§ for, in consequence of its great
degree of hardness, it is capable of cutting and
polishing not only the hardest glass, but even the
hardest gems :‘H' and if we consider how useful a
’ Milliurn's Oriental Commerce.
'l' Pinkerton.
f llr'}'li£'.
'i Jameson.
§ “ It is, however, the most hard, transparent, and brilliant of
minerals."-—Pinkerlon.
"‘ “ The ancients were unacquainted with the art of cutting the
diamond, and hence they used it in its natural granular or crystallized
nate. Even in the middle ages, this art still remained unknown; for
the [our large diamonds that ornament the clasp of the imperial
mantle of Charlemagne, and which is still preserved in Paris, are
nn- H! octahedral cri'stals.“-Em-y, Br|‘¢_ ’
80 THE mseovnnv OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
substance glass is, how universally employed as a
means of at the same time admitting light and ex
cluding the air from the interior of our houses; but
that, in consequence of its hardness and brittleness,
it would with great difﬁculty be divided by any
common mechanical instrument, so as accurately to
ﬁt the frames in which it is ﬁxed for the above pur
poses, we at once see the value of a substance which
easily and readily accomplishes that end. A small
diamond, no larger than a mustard-seed, ﬁxed in a
convenient handle, enables the glazier to cut a plate
of glass into pieces of any shape that he plea es:
and the same instrument will serve his daily use
for many successive years.“ Pliny says, “ the trial
of these diamonds is upon a smith’s anvil : for, strike
as hard as you will with an hammer upon the poini
of a diamant, you shall see how it scorneth all
blows, and rather than it will seem to relent, ﬁrst
ﬂieth the hammer that smiteth, in pieces, and the
very anvil itself underneath cleaveth in tv. .iin.
Wonderful and unenarrable is the hardness of a
diamant: besides it hath a nature to conquer the
fury of ﬁre, nay, you shall never make it hot, do
what you can: for this untameable virtue that it
hath, the Greeks have given it the name of Adamas."
The ancients considered it as the most una'ter
able of bodies, and made it the emblem of the
immutability of the decrees of fate.
' Kidd. Bridgewater Treatises.
oR, PHYsIoLoGY oF MAN. 8|
*Sifigit adamantinos
Summis verticibus dira necessitas
Clavos.'*
* Quelle est donc la nature du diamant ? le prin
cipe de sa clarté, de sa transparence, est-il le méme
que celui de sa volatilité? comment concevoir cette
volatilité dans le corps le plus inaltérable d'ailleurs
qu'il y ait peut-être dans la nature! Qui l'auroit
pensé que la pierre la plus solide, la plus dure, la
plus brillante et la plus précieuse,soit aussi comme
l'or, le plus precieux et le plus rare de tous les
métaux, c'est à dire, qu'elle ait à elleson caractère
distinct, séparé et tout-à-fait différent de celui des
autres pierres; ainsi que l'or possede en seul, un
genre de perfection, qui le distingue et le sépare
de toutes les autres substances du même genre ?
On diroit que la nature a rompu presque toute ana
logie à leur égard; qu'elle a fait un saut, et qu'elle
a mis une barriere impénétrable entre cesdeuxêtres
et tous les corps qui paroissent leur ressembler da
vantage. L'un a résistéjusqu'icià tous les men
strues, et échappe aufeuparsavolatilité,tandisque
l'autre brave les moyens humainsparsoninalterable
*Diamonds deserve the chiefregard ofalljewels.
• PercyAnecdotes. In India, diamonds ofgreat size * are never
sod bythe Rajahs, or persons of rank, but are preserved in families
from generation togeneration,vith religious care"-Mauce.
- M. D Arcet.
82 THE DISCOVERY or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
First, they are the best repository of wealth; in
asmuch as they will lie in the smallest space of any,
and are thereby the most portable, and best con
veyance of treasure. Next, their superlative hard»
ness secures them from all injury by wear; as
nothing can make any impression on them, or
prejudice their lustre, but their rubbing against
each other. They can only be affected by ﬁre, and
that must be strong and lasting to do them much
harm; and the injury they receive thereby arises
chieﬂy from taking them too hastily from thence,
whereby the immediate impression of the cold air
may possibly produce ﬂaws, &c. A moderate ﬁre.
will only occasion a roughness on their surface,
which maybe repaired by new polishing.”*
" “According to llenckel, Boyle was the ﬁrst who did not content
himself with shuttingr up the diamond in his treasury, but devoted it
to the action of ﬁre."—JI. D’Arc‘et.
Some jewels, which were missing. were lately discovered in
the following remarkable manner. A ﬁre having been lighted in a
grate, where these gems had been concealed by the thieves, the bril
liant appearance of the diamonds, in the midst of the ﬁre, immediately
attracted attention, and they were, with many other valuable jewels,
extricated thence, all being more or less injured, the diamonds alone
excepted, which were sparkling ones of the ﬁrst water, and were not
in the slightest degree impaired by the action of the ﬁre—a striking in~
stance ofthe indestructible nature of that gem. “ Moreovcr,“ observes
'Pliny, “ as touching the. concord and discard that is hetweene things
natural], which the Greekes call sympathia and antipathia, (whereof I
have so much written in all my bookes, and endeavoured to acquaint the
readers therewith,) in nothing throughout the world may we observe
the one and the other more evidently, than in the diainant: for this
invincible minerall (against which neither ﬁre nor stecle. the tr. I
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 83
“ That rules may be given for the just valuing of
diamonds, according to their increase in size and
weight, is reasonable to suppose from this con
sideration : that nature has produced in times past,
as well as it does at present, diamonds in the fol
lowing manner; viz. a vast number of small ones,
and progressively a less number of larger; and
that they promiscuously inherit the same properties,
and share alike of perfection and imperfection.
The principle or rule is, that the proportional
increase, or value of the diamond, is, as the square
most violent and puissant creatures of nature's making, have any
power, but that it checketb and despiseth both the one and the other),
is forced to yield the gantelet and give place unto the blood of a goat,
this ouer thing is the meanes to breakc it in sunder, howbeit, care
mustbe had, that the diamaut is steeped therein whiles it is fresh
drawn from the beast, before it be cold: and yet when you have made
all the steeping you can, you must have many a. blow at the diamnnt
u ith hammer upon the anvill ; for even then also, unlesse they be of
exe-‘ilent proofe and good indeed, it will put them to it, and break
both the one and the other: but I would gladly know whose invention
this might be, to snake the diamant in goat's blood; whose head de
vised it ﬁrst, or rather by what chance was it found out and knowne!
“'hat conjecture should lead a man to make an experiment ofsuch a sin
gular and admirable secret, especially in a goat, the ﬁlthiest beast, one of
them, in the whole world? Fertesl must ascribe both this invention,and
all sueh-likc, to the might and beneﬁcence together ofthe Divine powers:
nether are we to argue and reason how and why nature hath done
this or that? Suﬂieient it is that her will was so, and thus she would
have it. But to come again to the diamant, when this proofe takevh
effect to our mind, so that the diamant once crack, you shall see it
break and crumble into so small pieces, that hardly the eie can dis
cerne the one from the other. Well, lapidaries are very desirous of
diamante, and seeke much after them; they set them into handles of
yron, and by their means they will with facilitie cut into any thing,
be it never so hard.“
G2
84 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
of their weight, whether rough or manufactured."—
Jmf‘eries' Treatise on Diamonds)"
Mr. Leeuwenhoek describes (in the Phil. Trans
actions, Dec. 1709,) some experiments which he
made upon rough diamonds. He says, “I procured
a few small rough diamonds from a jcweller, some of
whichI placed before a microscope, and observed one.
of them more particularly; concerning which I con
cluded, that all those streaks or ﬁbres which I saw
in it, were nothing more than the several coagu
lations or augmentations it had received from time
to time, and that in a. very short space. Now,
that the increase of diamonds is made in such an
order and manner we may conclude, the rather
because we are sure that the same thing happens
in the coagulation of many salts. I have taken
some of these particles several times, and laid them
upon burning wood coals till they were red-hot, and
in that condition thrown them into the water, to
see whether they would burst to pieces; or whe
ther there would be any separation of matter from
them; but that never happening, I must conclude
that there was no air, nor any moisture shut up
within them. Now, as we ﬁnd, that, in the dis
solution of silver by aquafortis, some of the small
silver particles are coagulatcd in crystals of the
ﬁgure Of diamonds; and that the sugar which is
' In the perfect manufacture of this gem, half the wright will be
lost—See Jvﬂ'eries.
on, PHYSXOLOGY or MAN. 85
boiled to a syrup in order to make sugar-candy, is
also coagulated into such particles; so we may like
wise suppose, that at the time when the diamond
particles coagulate, a great deal of the same matter
whereof they are composed is in the air, but not to
be perceived by our naked eye, nor the quantity
thereof to be known till it is coagulated into a body:
and who knows but if a shovel of that earth, out of
which they dig diamonds, were brought over and
carefully examined by a microscope, one might
discover abundance of exact and complete little
diamonds of an unspeakable smallness!
“I know that there are a great many people who
are of opinion, that many things lying in the bowels
of the earth, and especially diamonds, grow bigger
and bigger, and that their increase is occasioned by
subterraneous ﬁres driving the clamps up higher
and higher, which damps, they say, are impregnated
or loaden with mineral, crystalline, or adamantine
particles. ButI am not of that opinion, for if it
were true that an adamantine matter were produced
by the subterraneous ﬁres driving up the damps, we
must conclude, that that matter would be ﬂuid, and
then that ﬂuid matter so driven up, would coagulate
with the diamonds it met in its way, and make them
greater; but if that were true, this adamantine
matter so driven up, could not have the power to
disperse the earth or sand with which the diamonds
were surrounded, in order to its own accretion or
86 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
coalition therewith, but this coagulating adamantine
matter would involve earth, sand, or whatever other
particles lay in its way, by which means there would
be no such thing as a clear and clean diamond
digged out of the earth.
“I know that there are some rough diamonds
in and about which there is an earthy matter,
but that does not seem strange to me, because it
happens, as I imagine, in the very coagulation of
the diamonds, and when the parts thereof were soft.
“ Among several hexangularpicces of rock-crystal,
I have observed some whose sides appeared very
smooth to the naked eye, and whose points did not
at all resemble crystal, but rather a dark earth;
which I conceive to be only occasioned by the neigh
bouring earth's insinuating itself into the points of
the said crystal, at its ﬁrst coagulation, and when it
was soft.
“ Let us now suppose a diamond lying in the
earth, and growing continually greater, whose axis
was the fourth part of an inch, or 150 hairs’ breadth,
and that such a diamond, in the space of ten years
was so much cncrcased, that its axis, or the bigness
of its body, was augmented on every side half a
hair’s breadth, and so proportionably every ten
years; by consequence then, in the space of 3,000
years its axis would be 300 hairs” breadth greater,
by which means the diamond would be twent._y_
scven times bigger than at ﬁrst.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 87
“ Now, if we suppose that a diamond in the space
of ten years does increase on all sides a hair’s
breadth, its axis would be two hairs’ breadth,
uhieh in 3,000 years would be 750 hairs' breadth,
and then the last-mentioned diamond would be
l25 times bigger than the diamond whose axis
was 150 hairs' breadth; now supposing a diamond
“hose axis was 150 hairs’ breadth, and its weight
seven carats, what a prodigious diamond would
that he whose axis is 750 hairs’ breadth, and where
shall we ﬁnd such a diamond?
“ This gem, without any essential colour of its
own, imbibes the strong solar ray, and reﬂects it
with additional intensity, hardly yielding to the
splendour of the meridian sun.”"‘
“ Though the same sun, with all diﬂ'usiwr rays,
Blush in the rose, and in the diamond blaze,
We prize the stronger effort of his pow'r,
And always set the gem above the ﬁow’r “
. —Pope.
“ A diamond," says Dr. Wall, “ by an easy slight
friction in the dark with any soft animal substance,
as the ﬁnger, woollen, silk, &0. appears in its whole
body to he luminous; nay, if you keep rubbing for
a little while, and then expose it to the eye, ’twill
remain so for some little time d" but if the sun be
‘ .‘Ivy ne. Ofthe luminous property ofthe diamond Boyle gives a most
llllt'l'i’ri'illg account in his Experiments on Colours, which however is
loo long to be introduced here.
f " Tm: burning of diamonds ll a term used among the jewellers
88 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
eighteen degrees below the horizon, if any one
holds up a piece of baize or ﬂannel stretched tight
between both hands, at some distance from the eye,
and another rubs the haize or ﬂannel with a diamond
swiftly and pretty hard on the other side of it, the
light to the eye of him that holds it, seems much
more pleasant and perfect than any other way I
have yet tried. But what to me seems more sur
prising than all Ihave mentioned, is, that a diamond
being exposed to the open air in view of the sky,
gives almost the same light of itself without rubbing,
as if rubbed in a dark room; and if in the open air
you put your hand or any thing else a little over it,
to hinder its communication with the sky, it gives
no light : and I do assure you, I have tried all or
most of the other precious stones, but could ﬁnd no
such phenomenon in any of them.“
for putting them into a. ﬁerce ﬁre, as they frequently do. w'mn they
are fouled with brown or yellow, or the like; this always divests them
of their colour, without doing them the least sensible injury. M.
du Fay, having been informed of this common practice, formed a
conjecture, that the difference of diamonds in their shining or not
shining in the dark, was owing to it; and that either all these
which had been burnt, or all those which had not, were those which
alone shone in the dark. But this was found an erroneous i'onji‘cture:
for two diamonds, one lucid in the dark, the other not, were both
burnt, and afterwards both were found to retain the same properties
they had before. It is not only the open sunshine, or open daylight,
which gives to these diamonds the power of shining in the dark;
they receive it in the same manner, even if laid under a glass. or
plunged in water, or in milk.“—Enc_z/. Britannica.
‘ Experiments of the luminous qualities of Amber, Diamonds, and
Gum Lac, by Dr. Wall, in a letter to Sir Hans Sloane.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 89
“ Since the time of Sir Isaac Newton, the diamond
has been supposed to exceed every other body in its
power of refracting and reﬂecting light, the index of
refraction, according to that philosopher, being
about 2,439. Dr. Brewster, however, has found,
that both red-lead ore and orpiment exceed the
diamond in their action upon light. The diamond
has always been considered as a crystal which gives
single refraction; and in whatever way the diamond
is cut, it exhibits no direct marks of two images.
Dr. Brewster, however, has found, that it possesses
the property of depolarizing light; and it necessa
rily follows, from his theory of depolarization, that
like many other bodies, it actually forms two images,
\\ hich are polarized in an opposite manner, like
those of all doubly reﬂecting crystals; but, in con
sequence of its possessing only one refracting power,
these images can never be separated and rendered
visible. The diamond polarizes light by reﬁexion
at an angle of 68° 10’ according to experiment, and
at an angle of 68° 2' according to theory; and its
dispersive power is 0,038, nearly the same as oil
of olives, and very much below ﬂint-glass.“ “ Nor
is it among the least ‘of the glories of this gem,
that it gave occasion to that remarkable conjecture
of Sir Jsaac Newton respecting its chemical na
ture. That philosopher having observed, that the
' Jameson.
90 THE mscovsnr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
refractive power of transparent substances is in
general proportional to their density; but that,
of substances of equal density, those which are
combustible possess the refractive power in a higher
degree than those which are not; concluded, from a
comparison of the density and refractive powers of
the diamond, that it contained an inﬂammable prin
ciple; which opinion was subsequently conﬁrmed
by direct experiment. It will be remembered by
the chemical reader, that on the same ground l-e
made the same conjecture with respect to water,
and with the same success. And never, perhaps,
did the eye of philosophy penetrate more unex
pectedly the thick veil which is so often found to
hide the real character of various forms of matter:
for, imperishablc as from its name the adamant
was supposed to be, who would have antecedently
expected that it might be dissipated into air by the
process of combustion.> And with respect to the
other subject of his conjecture, if any principle was
opposed to combustibility in the opinion of mankind,
it was water—‘ Aqure contrarius ignis.’ ”*
“ Sir Isaac Newton, in his Optics, hinted that,
from its very great refracting power, it might be an
unctuous substance coagulated.+ This philosopher
predicted, from its rich and peculiar effusion of
" Kidd.
1- Maw-e, speaking of the diamond. says “ their lustre and colour
often resemble gum arabic.“
6
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 91
light, that the diamond would prove an inﬂammable
substancef“ “ This prediction has been recently
fulﬁlled by numerous experiments; and it is now
universally admitted by chemists that the diamond
is only a very pure species of coal!!!" To Sir
Humphrey Davy we owe the identiﬁcation of this
gem with charcoal, and the following account was
given by him of this extraordinary substance: ‘ Its
speciﬁc gravity is about 3.5; it does not conduct
electricity.+ “When the diamond is heated in air,
it consumes away; and if it be exposed to oxygen
continuously ignited by a burning glass, why other
ITH'HIIS, it acts upon the oxygen nearly in the same
manner as charcoal. The volume of oxygen is not
perceptibly changed, and it is found converted into
carbonic acid. Mr. Lavoisier ﬁrst determined that
' ‘~ Then what shall we say of that incredible power of generaliza
ti on which has enabled some even to anticipate by ages the discovery
"t trurhs the furthest removed from ordinary apprehension, and the
mw-t savouring ofimprobability and fiction—not merely of a Claivaut
conjecturing the existence ofa seventh planet, and the position of its
orbit. but of ,1 Newton lczrnedly and sagacionsly inferring, from
the refraction of light, the inﬂammable qualin of the diamond, the
composition of apparently the simplest of the elements, and the oppo
site nature of the two ingredients, unknown for a century after, of
u hirh it is composed? Yet there is something more marvellous still,
in the processes of thought by which such prodigies have been
performed, and in the force of the mind itself, when it acts wholly
without external aid, borrowing nothing whatever from matter, and
relying on its own powers alone."--Lord Brougham.
1- “ lts speciﬁc gravity is 3.5. When rubbed, it becomes positively
electric, ci en before it has been cut by the ispidary, which is not the
rise with any other gcin.“— Thomson‘s Chemistry.
92 run mscovmw or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
carbonic acid was formed from diamond; and Messrs.
Tennant, Allen, and Pepys, have demonstrated, by
some reﬁned experiments, that it produces about the
same quantity as an equal weight of charcoal.‘
Hence, it has been concluded, that the diamond is
pure carbon, diﬂ'ering from charcoal merely in the
arrangement of its parts.”+ Dr. Kidd, in the
Bridgewater Treatises, says, “ It will naturally ex
cite the surprise of those who are unacquainted
' “ That diamond and carbon were the same, was proved by
Lavoisier in 1772. He burnt ﬁve grains ofdiamond in a given weight
of oxygen, and he found that he obtained the same result as when be
burnt ﬁve grains of carbon in oxygen, and he was therefore led to
conclude that the diamond was pure carbon, and although this expe
riment has been many times repeated, the result has always been the
same; the inference is therefore irresistible, that charcoal and dia
mond, although differing in mechanical texture, are similar substances
in their chemical nature."—London Pharmacopoeia.
1 Carbon, in various proportions, is a frequent ingredient in the
animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms; therefore diamond must like
wise belong to them all. Of this gem “ there are two classes, Oriental
and Occidental; the ﬁrst, the ﬁnest and hardest, from the Eastern; the
latter, inferior and softer, from the Western World. Many experi
ments have been made in dissolving both, and it has been substantially
proved theta powerful burning lens, from solar heat, has accom
plished it sooner than the heat of a furnace. A diamond, weighing
thirty grains, exposed thirty seconds, lost its lustre, colour, and
transparency, and became opaque white in ﬁve minutes; bubbles
appeared on its surface: soon afterwards, it burst into pieces, which
were dissipated, and the fragments remaining were crushed into ﬁne
powder by the pressure of the blade of a knife.“—-Cltambers.
“ The Greek and Roman potentates, as well as the subsequent
monarchs of Europe, possessed many rare and valuable stones of the
class named, not a trace of which remains at the present day. From
this circumstance, it may be inferred that they were lost during;' times
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 93
with the chemical history of this substance, to learn
that the purest diamond does not essentially differ
from a particular variety of common coal, or from
that mineral of which drawing pencils are made,
and which is usually, though not with propriety,
called plumbago and black-lead: yet nothing has
been more clearly proved, than that equal weights
of these several substances, if submitted to the
process of combustion, will produce nearly equal
quantities of carbonic acid gas; which has already
been stated to be a chemical combination of deﬁnite
proportions of carbon and oxygen; the diamond,
which is the purest form of carbon, burning away
without leaving any residuum; the other two leav
ing a very small proportion of ashes, in consequence
of their containing foreign matter. And here we
can hardly fail to notice a very remarkable instance
of what may be called the economical provisions of
nature. How rarely, and in what small quantities,
are the diamond and plumbago found; and how
abundantly does coal predominate in many parts of
the worle The Borrodale mine of plumbago in
of pestilence, or those equally dire convulsions when the sword is the
great slayer, and produces eﬂ'ects still more disastrous than the
entombment of Pompeii and Herculaneum. Coins of all sorts, and
ofeverv date, are frequently found buried in the earth; and as we
never hear of diamonds being recovered in the same accidental man
ner. they perhaps decompose after a certain time, from causes we can
only guess at, in the absence ofevery thing like certain information."—
Ibid
94 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Cumberland is the most considerable source of
that substance throughout Europe; and the pro
vince of Golconda almost alone supplies the whole
world with diamonds: and, probably, the accumu
lated weight of all the plumbago and of all the
diamonds which have ever been derived from those
and other sources, would not equal a hundredth
part of the weight of coal which is daily quarried in
Great Britain. Suppose now that the case had
been reversed; and what would have been the.
consequence? Diamond and plumbago, though
really combustible substances, yet from their slow
combustibility could never have answered, in the
place of coal, as a fuel for general purposes; and,
on the other hand, without that large supply of coal
which nature has provided, what would have
become of the domestic comforts and commercial
speculations of the greater part of Europe, during
the last two centuries P"
Sir Humphrey Davy further observed, (in allusion
to- the identiﬁcation of charcoal with the diamond.)
“When it is considered, however, that charcoal is
a conductor and diamond a nonconductor of elec
tricity, and that their physical properties diﬂ'cr
entirely, it is impossible to receive this conclusion
without doubt. I found that diamond-powder,
heated strongly with potassium, became blackened;
and an eﬁ'ect was produced on the metal similar to _
that which the absorption of a minute quantity of
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 95
oxygen would occasion. This would lead to the
suspicion that there may be a little oxygen in
diamond; but new experiments are wanting to prove
this, and the quantity, if any, must be very minute,
which does not harmonize with the doctrine of
deﬁnite proportions. If it should be ultimately found
that the diamond is merely pure carbon, it will be
an argument in favour of the varieties of elementary
forms being produced by different aggregations or
arrangements of particles of the same‘ matter, for
it is scarcely possible to ﬁx upon bodies less ana
logous than lamp-black, and the most beautiful and
perfect of the gems l l”
Many medicinal properties are ascribed to this
gem. Pliny says, “It hath a property to frustrate“
the malicious effects of poison, and drive away those
iiizaginations that set folke beside themselves, and
to expel vain fears that trouble and possess the
mind: which is the reason that some have called
it Anackites.” “moreover,” continues the same
author, “ there is such a natural enmity between
diamants and loadstones, that if it be laid near to
a piece of iron, it will not suffer it to be drawn
away by the loadstone: nay, if the said loadstone
be brought so near a piece of iron that it have
caught hold thereof, the diamant, if it come in place,
will cause it to leave the hold and let it go."
From the above circumstances, the following
linfcrences may be drawn. Diamonds do fall in
96 THE DISCOVERY or ran VITAL PRINCIPLE,
a crystallized state to our earth,by their being sought
at the time of great rains; and when found imbedded
in the earth, from the circumstance of such beds
being no more than twenty feet from the earth's
surface. This is no more surprising than that
masses of iron should fall from the heavens, (which
is a fact clearly ascertained.) The resemblance of
the balls of hornstone, &c. to such masses of iron,
assists the supposition. The exact similarity of the
diamond in its perfect state to a drop of clear spring
water, its being a non-conductor of electricity at its
freezing point, our earth; its inﬂammability, single
refraction, polarization of light, indivisibility, (the
primitive signiﬁcation of an atom being I-cut,)*
which is alone aﬂ'ccted on itself by its own substance;
its hardness; its egg-shape, purity, and power of
expansion, furnish abundant proofs of its identity
with that primitive celestial matter, which
“ Lives through all life, extends through all extent,
Spreads undivided, operates unspent.“—Pope.
“IRON exists in ﬁve different states, but in these
it exhibits the greatest variety of any of the metals.
It is found in the metallic state; in that of alloy
with other metals; in the state of oxide ,' and com
bined with the acids,forming salts. Iron has only
" See Note (*), page 7, ofthis work.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 97
been found native in insulated masses; one of which
was discovered by Pallas in Siberia, and another,
which was found in South America, long occupied
the attention of philosophers, in speculations and
discussions concerning their origin. This point
remained unsettled, till the discovery of numerous
other facts with regard to similar productions,
which have proved, whatever may have been their
origin or mode of formation, that these metallic
masses have fallen from our atmosphere.“
“ That solid masses fell from above, connected with
the appearance of meteors, had been advanced as
early as 500 years before the Christian era, by Anaxa
goras rt" and the same idea had been brought forward
in a vague manner by other enquirers among the
Greeks and Romans, andwas revivedin modern times;
but, till 1802, it was regarded by the greater number
of philosophers as a mere vulgar error, when Mr.
Howard, by an accurate examination of the testimo
' Lydiard on Metals, MS.
'3‘ Anaxngoras foretold “ on what day a stone would fall from
the sun, which happened in the day-time in a part of Thrace, at
the river ZEgos. which stone is at this day shown, about the bigness
of: bean, of an adust colour, a comet also burning in those nights.“
Stanley.
Thus does Hudibras allude to the opinion of the Greek philoso
phen—
“ For Anaxagoras long agone,
Saw hills as well as you, i‘ th' moon,
And held the sun was but apiece
Of red-hot iron as big as Greece!!!"
98 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
nies connected with events of this kind, and by a
minute analysis of the substances said to have fallen
in different parts of the globe, proved the authen
ticity 0f the circumstance, and shewed that these
meteoric productions differed from any substances
belonging to our earth; and since that period a.
number of these phenomena have occurred, and have
been minutely recorded."*
“Dr. \Nollaston ﬁrst showed, that the forms in
which native iron is disposed to break are those
of the regular octahedron, and tetrahedron, or
’ rkomboid, consisting of these forms combined. In
a specimen possessed by this philosopher, the crys
talline surfaces appear to have been the result of a
process of oxydation, which has penetrated the
mass to a considerable depth in the direction of its
laminae; but in the specimen which is in the posses
sion of the Geological Society, the brilliant surfaces
that have been occasioned by forcible separation
from the original mass, exhibit also the same con
ﬁgurations as are usual in the fracture of octahedral
crystals, and are found in many simple mew/3.
° Davy. —Ure enumerates as many as 217 instances of mass: s ofirun
falling from the heavens as meteorulites; and “the Siberian Tat-tars
have still a tradition among them, that the masses of native iron,
tuned in their own country, fell from heaven.“—-1Vasrm Good.
One of the ancient philosophers believed “ that. lightning disiihl
from the ether ; and that from this great heat of heaven. many thing:
fall down whirh the clouds preserve a long time enclosed."
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 99
This spontaneous decomposition of the metal in the
direction of its crystalline laminae, is a new and
valuable fact.“
“In the second of these states (when found in
alloy with other metals) it is in very small propor
tions. It is also discovered combined with sulphur.
This compound is sulphurate of iron, which is known
to mineralogists by the name of pyrites, and is a
frequent production among the ores of iron. Iron
is likewise found combined with carbon. This
compound, now distinguished by the name of car
buret ofiron, is the black-lead orplumbagod~ which
contains nine parts of carbon to one of iron. But
the most ordinary state of iron is that of oxide;
and in this condition it exhibits a great variety of
forms. It is sometimes in irregular and insulated
"185885,: sometimes regularly crystallized, and dis
" Ure.
'? “ Iron, in the state ofa carburet, forms the graphite of Werner,
(plumbagn) This mineral occurs in kidney-form lumps of various
sizes."-—-llwper’s .Hediml Dictionary.
That the diamond and plnmbago were identiﬁed by Sir H. Davy
has already been stated. “ lron united to carbonic acid, exists in the
sparry iron-ure.“—-Dr. Hooper.
I -‘ There is a hill of solid iron situated in Brazil, on the left of the
road from Queluz to Villa Rica, rather more than a league from the
former place. Mr. Lucork describes it as ‘ one entire mass of iron,
so perfectly free from any mixture of common soil as to produce no
vegetable whatever, being covered with a coating of rust or oxyde of
iron. The hill is so lofty and steep that its top was not discernible,
but, from its most elevated part, nodules or corroded metal had rolled
down, and had greatly embarrassed the progress of the traveller on
112
100 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
posed in veins.”"" The common magnetic iron
stone or loadsfone belongs to this class; as does
specular iron ore, and all the diﬂ'erent ores called
Iza’matites, or blood-sfone.+
“ Common and granular magnetic iron-ores are
distinguished from specular iron-ore, with which
they are often confounded, by the colour of the
streak, which is black, whereas that of specular
the road beneath. At the foot of the mountain the soil is red clay,
mixed with ponderous brown rust. As we advanced, the metal seemed
to become less pure, until after an extent of two leagues and a half
it altogether vanished, and was succeeded by clayey land. l had often
heard of this immense mass of metal, but none of the reports had
presented an adequate picture of it to the imagination. The very
core of the hill, as far as We could judge, appears to consist of vast
blocks of iron in tables'r and it is so singularly free from alloy, as to
produce, when melted, twenty-ﬁve per cent. of pure metal.‘ "
The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Literary Journal.
'* Lydiard.—“ The discovery of the iron and steel mines. as also
the working in them, was the invention (as Hesiodus saith; of those
in Crete, who were called Dnctyli ldaii."-~Plin_y.
'Y‘ Hoopcr's Med. Dictionary—When exposed to the air, the surface
ofiron is soon tarnished, “ and it is gradually changed into a brown or
red powder, well known under the name of rust. This change takes
place more rapidly if the atmosphere be moist. It is occasioned by
the gradual combination of the iron with the oxygen of the atmos
phere, for which it has a very strong afﬁnity.“
“ The peroxid of iron may he formed by keeping iron-ﬁlings red
hot in an open vessel, and agitating them constantly till they are
converted into a dark red powder. This oxide was formerly called
saffron qfﬂlars Common rust ofiron is merely this oxide combined
with carbonic acid gas. The red oxide may be obtained also by
exposing for a long time a diluted solution ofirou in sulphuric acid
to the atmosphere, and then dropping into it an alkali, by which the
oxide is precipitated. This oxide, when pure, has a ﬁne red colour,
bordering on crimson.“—-Thomson's Chemistry.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 101
iron-ore is cherry~red;* by being powerfully mag
netic, whereas specular iron-ore is scarcely affected
by the magnet; and the crystallizations of magnetic
iron-stone are different from those of specular iron
ore. Werner was the ﬁrst who observed that this
species of iron-stone is not magnetic when at a
depth in the earth, but that it acquires this pro
perty after exposure to the inﬂuence of the atmos
phcre.”+
“ The red iron-ore, or red hematite, is opaque z:
the streak is always blood-red: it is hard, passing
into semi-hard; brittle, and rather easily frangible.
It occurs in every situation where the compact kind
is found, and like it in veins, beds, and lying masses
(Ziegende stb'cke) that approach in magnitude to
mountain masses, principally in primitive mountains,
but also in transition and secondary mountains.
The different kinds frequently occur together, both
in beds and in veins: in veins, it is the compact
and ochry that predominate; the hematite occurs
principally in drusy cavities, the walls of which are
incrusted with the scaly kind."|l
“ Iron combines with two proportions of sulphur,
‘ The colour of micaceoua specular iron-ore is “iron'black, of
different degrees of intensity; thin plates. or folia, when held between
the eye and the light. appear blOOtl-red."—Jamesun.
"F balm-son‘s Mineralogy.-—“The name hematite, which is derived
from the Greek aipa, sanguis, was given to this ore of iron from its
7"ll I'liluul'."—-—lb6'4/.
1 [bid || lbid.
102 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
and forms protosulphuret and persulpburet of iron,
compounds which are easily distinguished among
inineralogists by the names of magnetic pyrites and
cubic pyrites. Protosulphuret of iron is not only
attracted by the magnet, but may be itself converted
into a magnet by the usual methods; but persul
phuret is not in the least obedient to the magnet~
neither is it susceptible of the magnetic virtues.”"“
The colour of the Reniform or Kidney-shaped
brown clay iron-ore “is yellowish-brown, but it
shews various degrees of intensity, even in the same
specimen: externally, it is darker, approaching to
blackish-brown; internally the colour is very light,
and sometimes it includes an ochre-yellow kernel.
It occurs massive, in irregular single balls, also in
reniform, lcnticular and elliptical forms, which are
sometimes hollow. These forms are composed of
concentric lamellar concretions, which often include
a loose nodule. It occurs imbedded in iron-shot
clay, in secondary rocks of diﬂ'erent kinds, and
also in loam and clay beds that lie over black
coal."-f~
The Pisiform iron-ore, or Pea-ore, “occurs in small
spherical round grains, which are not hollow, and
these are composed of concentric curved lamellar
concretions."1
Meadow-ore, or conchoidal hog-iron-ore, belongs
' Thomson's Chemistry. " Jameson. I Ibid.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 103
to a very new formation. According to Werner, it
is formed in the following manner:-—“ The water
which ﬂows into marshy places is impregnated with
phosphoric acid, formed from decaying animal
and vegetable matter, which enables it to dissolve
the iron in the rocks over which it ﬂows, or over
which it stands. This water, having reached the
lower points of the country, or being poured into
hollows, becomes stagnant, and by degrees eva
porates; the dissolved iron being accumulated in
quantity by fresh additions of water, there follow
successive depositions, which at ﬁrst are yellowish,
earthy, and of little consistence, and this is morass
ore; but, in course of time, they become harder,
their colour passes to brown, and the swamp-ore is
formed. After the water has completely evapo
rated, and the swamp is dried up, the swamp-ore
becomes much harder, and at length passes into
meadow-ore, which is already covered with soil
and grass." “ In some of the Swedish lakes, this
ore is deposited so abundantly, that it is dredged
up every twenty or thirty years.”-——Vz'd. Sweden
borg‘s Regnum Subterraneum.
“ Iron appears to be more abundant than magnesia
earth; it forms a constituent part of numerous
rocks and stones; to it they most frequently owe
their colour; the earths, when pure, are white)"
' (‘u \‘ie r. " Iron is found in every kind of rock.“—Bakewcll.
104 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
To the presence of iron, the increase of gravity in
most stones may be attributed, if it much exceed
2.50, or they are much heavier than water in a
proportion of 5 to 2, or 2Q to l."* “The speciﬁc
gravity of iron, according to Dr. Hooper, varies
from 7.6 to 7.8." “\Vith respect to the colours of
precious stones, it is a fact now fairly established
in chemistry, that all qf them depend upon a
solution of some peculiar metal in some peculiar
acid; and that of the various metals, iron is more
frequently employed by nature than any other."
“Iron has been found, not only in the blood of
animals, but in the juices of plants which have
been purposely guarded from the access of all
bodies of which this metal has been supposed to
constitute a component part.”'i~ It therefore belongs
not only to the mineral but to the vegetable and
animal kingdoms; the three divisions of matter in
our planet, the earth.
“Iron is generally obtained from the ores in a
“ “ The presence of iron not only increases the weight, and dan [mm
the colour of numerous rocks and stones, but is one principal means
of their decomposition. For iron exists in stones in two states of
oxygenation, as the black or the red oxyd. When the former is
exposed to air and moisture, it absorbs a greater portion of ex; gen,
and is converted into a brown ochery incrustation, which peels off.
and exposes a fresh surface of the stone to a similar process. A minute
portion of oxyd of the metal called manganese is also found in some
rocks and stones."—Il'id. “ Iron sinks in water, and swims in quick
silver.“-— Locke.
'i‘ Mason Good.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 105
state of oxyde, and this frequently mixed with clay.
It must, therefore, be separated from these sub
stances. This is accomplished by reducing the
ore into small pieces, and mixing it with a. ﬂux
composed of limestone and charcoal. It is then
exposed to a very strong heat.* For this process,
' “ The coal used in this process may here be mentioned. The
bituminous coal of Monmouthshire requires from ﬁve to nine days to
hr come thoroughly cokcd, whilst that about Merthyn takes only half,
or les- than half, of that time. The coal, when coked, has parted with
all its moisture, tar, and hydrogen-gas, and a great part of its sulphur;
and, according to its properties, is either ofa dull jet-black, with the
appearance of charcoal, or exhibits a. bright metallic or vitreous lustre,
Wltll a porous texture. The more carbonaceous matter it contains, the
better]! and those beds of coal are therefore the most esteemed which
present in the fracture the dull, soft appearance of carbonized vege
table matter. Small pieces of coke may be occasionally selected from
such a quality that can hardly be discriminated from charcoal, having
that ﬁbrous texture and peculiarity of lustre, by which it is charac
'eriled. (eke, indeed. may he considered only as a substitute jin
charcoal in the melting ofiron, and was formerly unknown as appli
cable to this purpose. Charcoal is at present in general use in Russia
and Swmlen, and indeed is now used at a few works in this country.
The iron producedfrum it is particularly calculated for conversion into
steel, but its high price and insufﬁcient quantity would totally preclude
its gcr Pl'ﬂl use, ei en were it a much greater desideratim than it is."
.lIanu/bcturc of Iron, Lib. of Useful Knowledge.
The .Hot- Blast.—“ The introduction into Scotland Of the system of
smelting iron by heated air, has produced extraordinary changes in the
manufacture ofthat important metal. The reduction in the quantity of
fuel required is said to be no less than 300 percent. ; two ions qfumlu, or
a corresponding quantity of coke, now proving to be sufﬁcient for the
smelting of one Inn of iron, which formerly required on an average
about eight. This would rank amongst the greatest strides of modern
m, “are no objections to exist in the corresponding deterioration,for
general purposes. of the quality of the iron so produced. The hot-blast
has not yet been introduced into the iron districts of England, from
l06 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
I
furnaces are constructed in such a way, that the
heat can he. raised to a very high temperature.
The nature of this process is thus explained; the
carbon of the chm-coal combines with the oxygen
of the iron, and forms carbonic acid, which is
driven off in the state of gas. By the strong
heat to which the lime and clay are subjected,
they arefused together, and form a vitreous matter,
which, being lighter than the iron, rises to the
surface."" The iron also is in a state of fusmn at
the supposition that the metal is rendered by it brittle, and devoid of
that nialleability which is one of the ﬁnest qualities of iron; that the
saving of fuel is not. equal to the decreased value of the metal so pro
duced. - We cannot otl'er an opinion on this important subject, but.
perceiving in the very able account ofthc origin, operation, and con
sequences of the hot-blast, which has recently been published by a
learned gentleman in Scotland, no allusion whatever to the quality
of the iron produced, we think it important towards the English
iron-masters, that an explanation of the subject should he aﬂ‘orded by
our northern fricnds.“—~ ll'rekly Dispatch, Jan. 31, 1836. Of this
practice we shall have to speak more particularly hereafter.
' “The appearance of the cinder is constantly watched by the
keeper, as an indication of the working of the furnace, and he can
generally tell, with tolerable certainty, the quality of iron he is about
to cast, by this criterion alone. If it is of a whitish-ger colour,
with a fracture somewhat resembling lime-slime, and running freely
from the furnace to a considerable distance, he augurs well of the
furnace; the materials are then doing their duty, combining properly
with each other, and leaving the whole of the iron in the hearth
without loss; the furnace is making good iron, and to a good yield,
At other times, the cinder will assume aglassy appearance, being
very tenacious and tough whilst hot, and running down sluggishly.
The colour is, perhaps, ofa light blue, or dirty yellow, or sea-green.
This shews the furnace to be working cold, driving slow, and pro
bably not producing iron to so good a yield as in the former case.
But the most unfavourable aspect observable in the cinder is a jet
.
i)
0a, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 107
the bottom of the furnace. When the process is
ﬁnished, a hole is opened, through which the ﬂuid
black colour, both on the surface and in the fracture; the surface
being rough and uneven, and the stream being broad, hot, and
shallow. These symptoms are always accompanied by an unfavour
able yield, as a portion of the iron combines with the clay and lime
stone in the furnace, and comes away in the state of a black oxide
“ith the cinder, causing its dark colour. Theory would teach us
that the most favourable aspect of the cinder would be that of a
per/3c! glass/l! indicating neither the presence of iron by the black
colour, nor the excess of the ﬂux by the stony opaque appearance of
the fracture. But in practice, this precise point isfound so difﬁcult, that
the appearance of the cinder is always considered the most favourable
when it is ‘ strong oft/re :tone,‘ as the workmen say."
dlanszacture of Iron, Lib. of Useful Knowledge.
If this perfect glass could be obtained, it would be the pure diamond,
H at which chemical philosophers have so long endeavoured, but un
successfully, to achieve 1!!
“ According to the following extract from a letter addressed by M.
Theodore Virlet to M. Arago, another labourer in the vast ﬁeld of
chemical science appears to be approaching to the same point as Mr.
Cross. but by a different route.
“Who does not know how many great facts, perhaps among the
most difﬁcult to comprehend previously, have already been explained
by the excellent researches of M. Becqncrel in electrical chemistry,
and the important labours of M. Fournet regarding the formation of
veins? Numerous other facts, although not yet fully explained, have
been brought forward, and admitted without dispute. For example,
I have proved that the emery of Naxos comes from veins, and, conse
quently, had been formed, like the greater number of specular iron
UfPr, by means .of volatilization and sublimation; yet the corundum
and oxide of iron, the mixture of which constitutes emery, are not
more volatile than the carbonate of magnesia. which forms the subject
ofdispute.
" Since our chemical knowledge, then, does not always enable us
to explain the phenomena whose existence we can prove, does it
follow that we ought to call them in question? Has nature no mode
nfnctim: which surpasses our knowledge? And could she not proceed
for illatMH‘I', by means of double chemical decomposition? On this
[08 THE mscovenv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
iron ﬂows and is received into moulds. This is
what is called crude or cast-iron, or. in the
language of workmen, pig-iron.* In this state it
supposition, the phenomenon (dolomisal‘ion) will admit of easy expla
nation. It is well known that all the muriates are. volatile, or at
least susceptible of sublimation. Magnesia might then easily reach
the state ofa muriate, and occasion the formation of a soluble hydro
chlorate of lime, which would be carried off by the inﬁltration of
water; while the magnesia, on the contrary, would be combined with
that portion of the carbonic acid set at liberty, and would thus serve
to form the double carbonate of magnesia and of lime, which con
stitutes dolomite, properly so called. In this there is certainly nothing
inadmissible or contrary to reason, inasmuch as the hydroehloric acid
gas is one of the gases most frequently disengaged from volcanoes,
and the muriates ought to have been disengaged more abundantly in
former times, if we admit. with geologists of the modern school. that
the immense deposits of rock-salt which exist in saliferous formations
are deposited by volatilization, in the midst of the strata which they
penetrate.
“ I am therefore of opinion, that the modifications of rocks of lht'
second class may henceforth be all explained by means of double
decomposition—a process which has enabled one of my friends, 5L
Aime, to produce, in the laboratory, crystallized specular iron-ore, analog/Ins
to that ofth island of Elba, aswcll as pure iron, equally well Crysl' llizr'd,
a substance Iiithulo unknown to mineralogisls: “hence I conclude, that
the time is not prrlw/isfur Ilislant, when we shall bc able to produce. with
ease, all the species ofprccinus stones, wit/"mt cven excel-ling the diamond."
" There are six different sorts of pig-iron, all of which (did the
limits of our work admit of their being detailed) illu~lrate our
theory. “ White iron is supposed to contain a very small portion of
carbon—less than any other sort of pig-iron. lt is totally unlit lnl'
casting. and is sometimes so thick. as hardly to run into the pig
moulds, although they are purposely made very large; and so l'rizll'.
that the largest and most unwieldy pigs may be. readily broken by
a blow with a sledge hammer. It is too hard to yield in any degree to
the chisel. The colour ofthe fracture is a ilrery white; shining and
smooth in its texture, with a foliated or crystallized structure. All
these six descriptions of pig-iron contain oxygen and carbon. 'l‘ne
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 109
is extremely brittle and hard, and possesses
scarcely any malleability. It still contains a
considerable portion of carbon, and is not entirely
free from oxygen! The next process in the
manufacture of iron is to deprive it of these sub
stances, which alter its properties and prevent its
application to the purposes of pure or malleable
iron. The crude iron is again introduced into a
furnace, where it is melted by the ﬂame of corn
bustible substances, which is directed to its surface;
and while it is in the state of fusion it is constantly
stirred, so that the whole of it may be uniformly
brought into contact with the air)“ At last it
swells and gives out a blue ﬂamed~ and when this
is continued about an hour, the iron begins to
acquire some consistency, and at last becomes
solid} While it is hot it is removed from the
surface, and hammered by the action of machinery;
it is then in the state of wrought or soft iron,“
carbon exists in the greatest proportion in thefoundry-iron; and
in the least in the white-iron last described; its proportion being
gradually diminished in the. intermediate stages. Its tendency seems
to be, to give a softness rmd toughness to the pig, so that, as far as
carbon is concerned, the purer the iron is when run from the furnace
the less ﬁt it is for foundry purposes.“
Muanucture of Iron, Lib. of Useful Knowledge.
' This resembles the method ofannealing glass.
1 Thomson in his work on Chemistry enquires, “ Why does cast.
iron expand in the act of congealing?" Water is well known to expand
in a similar manner.
I Solidity is the essential quality of primitive matter.
it Wrmiglit-iron is a simple substance, and, if pure, would contain
nothing but iron.“——Thomwn'l Chemistry.
" The process of reﬁning consists in separating a portion of the
110 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
from which are manufactured bars of various
widths and thicknesses, suited to the different pur
poses to which it is applied. The most important
physical properties of the iron in this reﬁned state,
are ductility, malleability,* and tenacity. By
carbon from the pig, and thus reducing the iron to a greater degree
of purity, preparatory to the subsequent operation which it has to
undergo. This is et wth by keeping the pigs in the state of fusion
for some time, exposed to a very great heat and a strong blast. How
the change is produced, what is the quantity of carbon separated.
and combined in what proportion with oxygen, are rather subjects of
speculation than demonstrated facts. it would appear that there is a
certain combination of carbon and oxygen in the pig more fav0urable
than any other for the proeess of reﬁning, for dark grey pigs will
produce a much better quality of reﬁned metal than "IOHIId or white,
though it might be supposed, from the latter being combined with
less carbon than the former, that they would the more readily part
with what they do contain. The ulu'te pig, in its chemical properties.
as far as we know them, approaches very nearly to the reﬁnl‘li llll‘ful.
In its appearance, also, and mechanical properties, it is very similar
to it. The plate of metal run into the reﬁning mould is very brilr'e.
and easily broken into convenient pieces for use at the forge. In its
fracture, it presents the same bright silvery whiteness that has been
described in the white pig. With all this apparent similarity, white
iron is disliked by the reﬁner, as occasioning more trouble in Working.
and producing reﬁned metal of a worse quality than dark grey, brigt t.
or mottled pigs; and it will be seen afterwards that the white pig
cannot be wholly substituted for reﬁned metal at the forge. There
is then an essential difference in the composition of iron in these two
states, though what this difference is has not hitherto been accurately
ascertainedf'-Manu;iicture of Iron, Lib. qf Uiffu/ Kn vie/edge.
“ White cast-iron, which is extremely hard and brittle. appears to
be composed of a congeries of small crystals. It can neilher beﬁlrd.
bored, nor bent, and u very apt to IITClI/t‘ when suddenly healed or 600101."
Thomson‘s Chemistry.
' Sir H. Davy says. “ we have no history of the manner in which
iron was rendered malleable; but we know that platinum rould only
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. lll
ductility is meant that peculiar property which this
metal possesses of being drawn out into wire,
without destroying or diminishing the cohesive
power of its particles. Indeed, it is capable of
being drawn many yards in length, and in every
thickness, from one-quarter to one-hundredth part
of an inch in diameter. But as this depends upon
a particular process, I shall endeavour in this place
brieﬂy to explain it. It must ﬁrst be. observed,
that it acquires a degree of hardness and elasticity
by hammering, or being drawn through a hole, as
in the manner of drawing wire, which seems to
have been worked by a person of the most reﬁned chemical resources,
who made multiplied experiments upon it, after the most ingenious
and profound views."
“ Steel is so hard as to be unmalleable while cold, or at least
it acquires that property by being immersed, while ignited, into
a cold liquid; for this immersion, though it has no effect upon
iron, adds greatly to the hardness of steel. According to Pliny, steel
owes its peculiar properties chieﬂy to the water into which it is
plunged, in order to be cooled. Bergmann, by dissolving in diluted
sulphuric acid lOO parts ofcast-iron, obtained, at an average, 42 ounce
measures of hydrogen gm,- from 100 parts of steel he obtained 48
ounce measures; and from 100 parts of wrought iron, 50 ounce
measures. From 100 parts of cast-iron he obtained, at an average,
2.2. of plumbago, or {3; from 100 parts of steel, 0.5, or it“; and from
lOO parts of wrought iron, 0.]2, or . From this analysis be con
rluded, that the cast-iron contains the [nut phlogiston; steel more,
and wrought iron most of all; for the hydrogen gas was, at that time,
mmidlrtd a; an indication qf phlogiston contained in the metal. He
concluded, too. that vast-iron and steel differ from pure iron in con
taining pl umlmgo."——-Thmnson's Chemistry.
“ Azote does not seem capable of uniting with iron. Neither doe-s
it appear to form any permanent combination with hydrogen)“
112 THE DISCOVERY or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
depend upon the expulsion of a portion of its
natural caloricll.” That this is the ease, I shall
endeavour to show, by compressing the particles
of a piece of iron wire by means of the hammer,
which will give it an elasticity proportioned to
the quantity of caloric which is evolved—f You
will transfer this idea to what I am going to say
relative to drawing-wire.
“ \Vire is drawn from split rods.
“The ﬁrst hole merely takes off its edges.
“The second a little more.
“ The third a little more, when it becomes nearly
round.
“From being drawn through three holes, the
particles of the iron are compressed into a state of
closer aggregation, and a portion of caloric is
evolved, which, together, have rendered it hard
and elastic, and it cannot be drawn smaller with
out ammlling it.
“Iron possesses the greatest tenacity of any of
the metals, and you will probably be surprised
when I inform you of the force necessary to over
come the power of colzesi-re attraction among the
' “ It is malleable in every temperature, and its maili-abilily
increases in proportion as the temperature augments; but it (‘30!!le
be hammered out nearly so thin as gold or silver, or even copper.
Its ductility, however, is more perfect; for it may be drawn out intr
wire as ﬁne, at least, as a human hair.“— Thomson's Chemistry.
1' Thomson, in his work on Chemistry, enquires. “ Does carlmnir
acid, in a ﬂuid state, ever enter into combination with iron
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 118
particles of an iron Wire, one-tenth of an inch in
diameter. A wire of this size is capable of sup
porting a weight equal to ﬁve hundred pounds.
The extraordinary tenacity of this metal appears
to be owing in part to that ﬁbrosity of its particles
which it acquires by being worked from the crude
iron into bars!."’* (If the ﬁbrosity of iron depends
upon the quantity of heat or hydrogen evolved,
we may conclude that those ﬁbres by which the
embryotic planets were chained to the sun, were
tempered to such a degree as to sustain their indivi
dual weight during a certain period.) “The power
of cohesive attraction in iron is exerted the most in
the longitudinal direction of its ﬁbresrl'
“I shall next consider its expansion and con
tractionz—Of all opposing antagonist principles,
none exhibit so general an enmity as calorie and
attraction: These two enemies are in a state of
unceasing warfare: attraction continually drawing
the particles of matter into a closer union, while
caloric is striving to set them more at a distance.
It nil] be found that, when heat is applied'to
metallic substances, attraction among the particles
is overcome, and they are expanded.“
‘ Lvdiard on the Metals. MS.
1' Li'diard.—-“ It is well known that the texture ofiron is ﬁbrous, that
is, nqiprm when broken to be composed ofa numberofstringa or ﬁbres
bundled tog; other. Its crystals have never been examined.“— Thomson.
1 See note (page 22) in the preceding chapter.
“ Zimmerman,“ observes Mr. Kirwnn, “mixed one part ﬁlings
l
114 THE mscovmw or run VITAL r
“Lustre, or brillianey, is another
striking characteristic properties of n
stances, and hence it has been denomim
of iron, and three parts sand, sprinkled, or rather cc
water, and let them stand six months, at the end of
found the vessel burst by the expansion of the oxyg
the sand so ﬁrmly compacted, that the mass thus t
be broken but by a chisel and hammer."-—Henc
Pierres, p. 405 in note. And that this induratiou m2
place at great depths in the sea, is evidently proved by
of Kirwan, Men1.Stakh. 1770, related by Gadd, that‘
long deposited in the sea, hall hardened into stone :1
and shells which surrounded it, to a pretty consid<
and is further conﬁrmed by a similar observation
King, Philos. Trans. 1779, p. 35, “ That a. violent s
bare part of the wreck of a man-of-war that had bee
years before, several masses, consisting ofiron. rope
found Covered over with a. hard substanre, which it
appeared to be sand eoncreted and hardened into a k:
which concreted round the rope retained the imprei
of the ring to which the rope was fastened, in the sa
Impressions of attraneous fossils are Qj'fenfound in i'ar'i
round the irnn handle of a brass cannon that rem
much longer time, a much harder incrustation of
inclosing cockles, muscles, limpets, oysters, &c., z
and converted into a substance so hard, that it requi
to break them as to break the fragment of any hard r1
It appears also, that a very small proportion of cal
rient to produce indumlion, when ditl'used throught
matter, not only by the observation of Kirwan, al
also by that of Mr. King, on the induration caused
nail, in the paper above quoted. “ Stones, already f0
further induraml by the inﬁltration 0f slightly oryg,
Dr. Fothergill having watered pieces of Portland
impregnated with iron-rust, found it in a few years
a sensible degree of surh hardness as to yield a mi
resist anyorrlinary hml."—-Philos. Trans. 1799. p. 44. l
Essays, p. 129. ‘- Iron, therefore, under every form
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. ll5
lustre. This is owing to the reﬂexion of a great
proportion of the rays of light by metallic surfaces."
a. stronger attraction to earths than most other metals, but to mag
netic ores, or pyrites impregnated with magnetic aura, it has a
more powerful attraction than to any other substance."
Mason Good.
“ A portion of a cast-iron gun which had long been immersed in
sea-water was incrusted to the depth of an inch with a substance
having all the exterior characters of impure plumbago; easily sectile,
greasy to the touch, and leaving a black streak upon paper. This
lubstance, digested in water, afforded a small quantity of muriate of
iron, but was not otherwise affected. Digested in muriatic acid, a.
considerable portion was dissolved without any eﬂ'ervesoence, and the
solution has the properties of pure muriate of iron, with a trace of
manganese. The insoluble portion, when collected upon a ﬁlter,
washed, and dried, was a shining black powder, very soft and unctuous
to the touch, and apparently pure plumbago. The relative propor
tions of the component parts of this substance were,
Oxide ofiron . . . . . . 8|
Plumhago . . . . . . . 16
9—1
“ Anchors, and other articles of wrought-iron, when similarly
"rinsed, are. only superﬁcially oxidized, and exhibit no other peculiar
appearance. There can, therefore, be little doubt, that the rapid
decav and change of cast-iron are partly to be attributed to a galvanic
actidu. the plumbaginuus crust in contact of the cast-metal producing
an (-lectromotire combination, aided by and promoting the decom
position of the lea-water, and of its saline contents."
The Doctor Magazine.
In Philos. Mag. vol. xl. p. '75, is the following record :-—“ A curious
concrete mass of iron and zinc, in weight more than a pound, has
been presented to the Liverpool Royal Institution from a friend in
Lon lon It is part of the residuum which remained in an oven in
u liirli some millions of bank-notes had been burnt, and is supposed to
hau- been amalgamated from the materials which have entered into
the composition ofthe ink.“
l2
ll'l THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL I
This property is thus alluded to by t
" Or, like a gate of steel
Fronting the sun, receives and render: bai
Its ﬁgure and its heat.”
“The next physical property of t
substance is its malleability. By th
and that of welding, we are enable(
into the most beautiful and ornamen
foliage work, in iron gates, palisades
&c. The property of welding belo:
alone, and it consists of partially
surface of two pieces intended to
together, and in this state placing ti
other and hammering them, when t/u
become as ﬁrmly united as any other
burl!"
“Very ﬁne iron wire burns in the
common candle, which sufﬁciently
inﬂammaliility of iron in atmospherii
combustion, however, depends upon 1
of oxygen gas, one of the componc
atmospheric air, in the proportion of
“ “ Iron may he heated to a greater heat than the i
wine.“—Basil [l1unlagu.
“Iron, at a red heat, rapidly decomposes water. a
hydrogen gas. But, on the other hand, when oxid
rounded with hydrogen gas, and heated, it is rapidl
the metallic state, while abundance of water is fol
afﬁnities of the diﬁ‘erent bases for oxygen seem to ban
prepondc rance.“- Thomson's ('hunisrry.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 117
100; it will not be cliﬂicult to conceive that all
substances which will burn in air that contains
only this proportion of oxygen, will burn with
much greater brilliancy and rapidity in pure oxygen.
In this experiment the oxyde of iron which remains
is three time; the weight of the original wire,
because it has taken up the ponderable basis of
the oxygen, and when the inﬂammable substance
is saturated, it is rendered incapable of decompo
sing more oxygen, and the combustion is ended.
In urging the tire of a smith’s forge with a powerful
bellows, we throw in a great quantity of atmos
pheric air, and consequently of oxygen, which
increases the combustion to a very high degree,
without which it would be impossible to get large
masses of iron to a welding heat, which is but a
degree lower than absolute inﬂammability; from
this it will be easy to perceive how much skill and
attention is necessary in welding ornamental iron
work, otherwise all acute angles and prominent
part.~ would be burnt away.” Mr. Brande, speak
ing of melting the metals by means of the voltaic
apparatus, says, “Iron wire was readily melted,
and thrown 05 in globules.” Iron is the only metal
that takes ﬁre by the collision of ﬂint.
"' Steel is a kind of iron, reﬁned by the ﬁre with '
other ingredients, which renders it white, and its
grain closer and ﬁner than common iron. Steel,
of all metals, is that susceptible of the greatest
5
118 THE mscovnnr or THE VITAL P
degree of hardness; whence its great
making of tools and instruments of 1
“ It is brittle, resists the ﬁle, cuts g1
sparks with ﬂint, and retains the mag
for any length of time. It is malleabl
hot, but scarcely so when raised to a W]
Mr. Blande, in one of his Lectures,
method of making steel is this :—A
is heated in a vessel containing ch
it is kept exposed for a long time to ‘
is ultimately found that the h“ of in
penetrated, or permeated, as it were, wit
of carbon, which has combined with it
and formed carburet of iron: “'her
from the furnace, it is found to be h
fracture and general appearance are alt
is then known under the name of blié
The bars of this ﬁrst manufacture are 11
and drawn down into smaller bars 1
machinery and beaten, and it is then 1
steel; which, when broken up and 1
° Chambers. 'l' Thomson‘s C
1 “ That steel is composed ofiron combined with carl
farther conﬁrmed by Morveau, who formed steel by cor
directly iron and diamimd. At the suggestion of Ch
a diamond in a small crucible of pure iron. and expos
covered up in a common crucible, to a. suﬁicient heat
disappeared, and the iron was converted into steel
weighed 907 parts, the iron 57,800, and the steel obn
that 2,313 parts of the iron had been lost in the 0|
this experiment. it follows, that steel contain! abou
of carbon."—Thommn's Chemistry.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. ll‘)
drawn into bars, forms slicer steel; and this, when
melted along with some vitrifying ﬂux, and cast into
bars, forms what is called cast steel, or English
steel. The properties of steel are exceedingly sin
gular: its texture varies in different specimens;
sometimes it presents more or less of a crystalline
fracture, and silky in others; and the appearance
of the fracture leads the artist to apply it to parti
cular purposes. You must see, in the selection of
steel for any particular use, that the fracture is
regular: and if you see a spot in it more white than
another, wipe it over with nitric acid; and if the
spots become darker, the specimen is not good
steel. It melts more readily than iron, and it admits
of welding. or uniting with iron, at high tempera
tures. It has a great variety of curious properties,
on which its value in the arts, in a great measure,
depends. Here is a piece of steel which is pliable;
and if I heat it and allow it to become cold again
slowly, I (time!!! it, as it is called, and it is still more
ﬂexible than before; but, by rapidly cooling it, it
becomes so brittle, that you may break it like glass.
Now steel, in this excessively bard state, is a very
intractable substance; but, if it be gradually
Invited up to a certain point, it again acquires a
dpgrpe of softness; and you beat it red-hot, it
becomes as soft as before. I ﬁnd that, at a tem
pr-rﬂturt? of about 430° it begins to soften; and
Ihat, at 6 or 700° it becomes very soft, and, there
120 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PP
fore, by proper management, the artist
any degree of hardness he may requiri
process is called the tempering of s‘
manufacturer of a razor for example,
the blade in the soft state of the metal
then ﬁnish it, and render it hard by quei
water; after which it is heated, until he
colour of the blade, that it is brough
the degree of hardness required. A ra
dinner-knife may be made of exactly the
of steel, but the difference in their ha
pends upon their tempering. Experience
us, that differences of temperature gi‘
peculiar degrees of hardness, ﬁtting it f0
purposes; and, in the common way, the
tempering consists in heating oil or n
fusible metal, up to a certain point, i
thermometer is placed, and the best ma
are now guided entirely by the thermon
process of tempering; whereas, for
instruments were heated without any th
the workmen being guided only by the
the colour of the steel, which is a vei
and often fallacious test? Polished Stt
begins to acquire a pale straw-colourm
' “Sir H. Davy. in consequence of a letter from
found that when steel is heated in hydroan gas it doe:
rolour as it does when it is tempered in the usual way
Thomso;
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 12]
from that to 465°, it becomes so far tempered, as to
be ﬁt for razor-blades, and instruments of that kind,
requiring delicate edges. From 480° to 500°, it
acquires a bzgﬂ' tinge, and becomes softer; it is now
soft enough for penknives, and certain surgical
instruments, and other purposes; at 500°, or from
515° to 530", it becomes yellow, and begins to acquire
a purple tint: from 530° to 550° it becomes deci
(led/y purple, and is then ﬁt for common knives,
and other instruments, requiring great toughness.
At 550°, or from that to 580°, the steel begins to
acquire a blue colour; and it is soft enough in that
state for a number of purposes, especially for thin
blades intended to haw: great elasticity and little
hardness; and, at 590°, it becomes so soft, as to be
bent without any risk of breaking, as is the case in
watch-springs. This is the history of the tempering
of steel : and you see, that by these differences of
temperature it acquires various degrees of density
and colour; but what the nature of this change is,
we do not know: you see, however, how valuable
it becomes in consequence. There is not much
difﬁculty in tempering a bar or thin plate of steel;
because, when you beat it red-hot, and plunge it into
Cold water, you obtain an uniform degree of hard
ness throughout ;"" but when you have to deal with
' ‘~ Steel is so hard as to be unmalleable while cold, or, at least, it
amnires that property by being immersed, while ignited, into a cold
“quid; {or this immersion, though it has no effect upon iron, adds
W” 1,
Tl
).
"7 .k.‘L
s 122 THE DXSCOVERY OF THE VITAL PF
a mass of steel, as with a die, for exam
long time before the whole of the heat es
you have a hard crust of steel outside,
interior is soft; you have it only case
and it sometimes happens, that these are
violence, like the coats of an onion, info
lug/er qftcr layer, showing a soft nur')
midst of (/21: (Mi.
line of the formation of steel, of the
acquiring degrees of induration at differ
ratures.“t
I have now given y<
“ The magnet or loadstone is a sort of 1'
stone, in weight and colour resembling
though somewhat harder and more heav:
usually found in iron mines, and sometir
large pieces, HALF MAGNET HALF I
colour is different, according to the diffe
tries it is brought from. Norman obsr
the best are those brought from China a
which are of an irony or sanguine colon]
Arabia are reddish; those of Macedonia
and those of Hungary, Germany, Englai
greatly to the hardness of steel.“ “ According to Pli
its peculiar properties chieﬂy to the water into which
in order to he cooled.“——Tlmmson's Cliemish'y.
° “A very curious process for making steel ha
adopted by Mr. Mnshet, of Glasgow, by passing co:
vessels. when red-hot bars of iron are exposed to its
may be a preferable mode, in some cases, to the other."
Afr Bram
0s, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 123
colour of unwrought iron. Neither its ﬁgure nor
bulk is determinate: it is found of all forms and
sizes. The ancients reckoned ﬁve kinds of magnets,
different in colour and virtue; the Ethiopic, Mag
nesian, Boeotic, Alexandrian, and Natolian; they
also took it to be male and female.”t
“ The most distinguished properties of the magnet
are, that it attracts iron, and that it points to the
poles of the world; and in other circumstances also
dips or inclines to a point beneath the horizon,
directly under the pole; and that it communicates
these properties, by touch, to iron. On which
foundation are built the mariner's needles, both
horizontal and inclinatory.“+
“Iron is the only substance which the magnet
particularly attracts, and that too when in its me
tallic state} Nevertheless this metal is so univer
sally diﬁ'uscd, that there are few substances which
do not contain a sufﬁcient quantity of it to be in
some degree affected by the magnet}! Iron itself
is attracted with different degrees of force, accord
ing to the state in which it is with regard to malle
" Ency. Brit.—“ The principal difference observed in these stones
ronsistcth in the sex, (for some be male, others female,) the next
lielh in the colour. The bluer any of these loudstones be, the better
they are. and more powerful.“-Pliny.
1' Ency. Brit.
1 Iron “ is attracted by the magnet or loadstone, and is itself the
substance which constitutes the loadstone,“-—Thomson.
ll " Vast masses of iron or ferruginous matter, actually magnetic,
.ire dug out of the earth almost in every part of it.“— Ency. Brit.
124 Tnn DISCOVERY or THE VITAL
~v-u-lw
7.
.
.,,~_.’._4_'...,.
ability. Even the purest calx or solu
be made, is said to be in some degre<
the magnet; but of all substances,
attracted with the greatest force when
an uniform texture. Hardened steel
with much less force than iron; bi
separated from red-hot iron, the fu
from ﬂint and steel, or the ﬁnery cinder,
as much as iron itself.“
“Almost every part of animal a1
bodies is ailccted by the magnet
burned; but unburnt animal and vs
stances are very seldom, if ever,
attracted. It is also remarkable, the
or the dust which falls upon any tl
posed to the atmosphere, are sensib
Colourless precious stones, as the (
crystals, are not attracted; neither t]
topaz, chalcedony, or such as are
their colour by ﬁre; but all others,
chrysohte, and tourmalin, are attractec
rald, and particularly the garnet, a
attracted, but frequently acquire an t
rity. The opal is attracted but weakl;
“ By heat, the power of a magnet i
and when it arrives at that degree ea:
heat, it is entirely destroyed. On the
the attraction is increased considerab
* Envy. liri t.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 125
more and more weight to the magnet: for thus it
will be found that the magnet will keep suspended
this day a little more weight than it did before;
which additional weight being added to it on the
following day, or some other day after, it will be
able to suspend a weight still greater, and so on as
far as a certain limit. The smallest natural magnets
generally possess the greatést proportion of attrac
tive power: so that there have frequently been seen
magnets not weighing more than twenty or thirty
grains, which would take up forty or ﬁfty times
their own weight; but the greatest proportion of
attractive power perhaps ever known, belonged to
the magnet worn by Sir Isaac Newton in his ring.
It weighed only three grains, and was able to take
up 746 grains, or nearly 250 times its own weight.
“ If a piece of iron be held to one of the poles of
a. magnet, the attractive power of the other pole
will thus be augmented: hence we may understand
why a magnet will lift a greater weight from a piece
of iron than from wood or any other substance, viz.
that the iron appended to the magnet becomes itself
a magnet while it remains in that situation; and
thus, having two poles, the iron which is placed
near the one, increases the attractive power of the
other which adheres to the magnet, and enables it
to sustain a greater weight than it would other
wise do.
“ Soft iron acquires the magnetic power by being
THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL I
appended to a magnet; but it lasts 0]
iron remains in that situation, vanishir
the magnet and iron are separated fron
With hard iron, but especialLy steel,
quite different; and the harder the i
is, the more permanent is the magn
it acquires; though in proportion ti
hardness it is (liflicult‘to impregnate
virtue.“
“It has been long known that pur
susceptible of retaining the properties
but steel, when once magnetized, cont
nently magnetic. Now steel, as we he
combination of iron and carbon. W11011
tion of carbon uni/Ml to iron is inc
cw'lain proportion, as in plumbago, Ii
the property of being acted on by
The addition of a certain portion of S111]
renders iron susceptible of becoming
magnet. The sulphur may amount to
cent. without destroying this propert;
it is increased to ﬁfty-two per cent. thi
vanishes completely. Iron may be 11
nently magnetic also when united to
but whether the magnetism disappea
proportion of phosphorus is increased,
ascertained.”1~
' Envy. Brit. I Thomson‘s i
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 127
“ Magnetic attraction is conﬁned to iron-steel and
the natural magnet.“ “ What Lucretius, in plain
words, attributes to the gross air, the spirit, and
shews how it presses the iron to this stone, Plato
attributes to the divine force in their god, the
air. ‘It is not art which makes thee excel, but
a divine power that moves thee, such as is in
the stone which Euripides named the magnet,
and some call the Heraclian stone, which attracts
iron rings,’ &c. This stone is six times men
tioned in Scripture by the name D’J’JB (pm'm'm).
The condition which makes iron and other things
follow it, is expressed in Job, xxviii.’ 18, by m
(ms/r), ékxvaov, attraction. Its colour is described
(Lumen. iv. 7,) by FID‘IR (adme), ﬂesh-coloured,
ruddy, as it is when dug, and more approaching
black, asﬂesh; and many of these stones are, when
dried and in their parts contracted, of the colour of
reddish clay. Its usefulness and worth is expressed
by mp‘ (ihre), by nmza (tube), &c. because no other
stone of that size is of any real value, except a
spark of diamond to cut glass. Sanchoniathon, the
Phu-uiciau. says, that Omanus contrived Baatulia
stones that moved as having life."'f~
“ This wonderful stone is supposed to derivv its
attraction and repulsion from the position in which
it is laid in the earth: for, from the quantity of
' Ii; diard. + Higgin's ('eltic Druids.
128 THE DISCOVERY or run VITAL
ferruginous, or ironous, matter cont
earth, as well as many other phenome
many reasons to believe the GLOBE I
ONE GREAT MAGNET!!!‘ This solid
stance, besides the properties of attrac
others peculiar to itself. One of its
and inseparable properties is, that wht
so as to be at liberty to move itself f1
was suspended by a thread, or balance
it turns constantly the same part 0
towards the north-pole of the earth,
no very great distance from it, and
the opposite part of its surface towari
pole of the earth, or a point but a li
from it. These parts on its surface
poles, and the property itself magnetiz
directive power.”+
' Almost all the phenomena which may be exhi
mon magnet may also be exhibited with the earth, 4
tried.“—Ency. Brit. »
'l‘ “This directive power of the magnet is the
and at the same time the most useful property i
it the mariner can conduct his vessel over the
of the ocean in any direction; the miner useful]
guide him in the subterraneous excavations, and
are conducted through deserts otherwise impassable
ties of the natural magnet can be communicated tc
which after having acquired the magnetieal propertii
ﬁcinl magnets, as the needles of our nautical compai
Lydi'ard'a
“ Now, its ﬂuid be the cause of magnetism, it is n
this ﬂuid must ﬂow through the pores of a horss-sh
same direction in which it is received, which will be
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 129
To the magnetic properties which belong to iron
alone we are indebted for the stability of the uni
north-pole of a. magnet be held about one inch from a suspended
needle, it will repel it, but if the other pole of the magnet be addressed
to the same end of the needle, it will attract it. Now, when one of
these magnets is lain on the other, with the north-pole of the one to
the south-pole of the other, it is evident that a contraction must take
place, and make them seem as if they had lost their virtue, when
placed on a piece of iron; for one may be said to be pulling, while the
other is pushing. But if the two positive poles are placed together,
and the two negative together, they will immediately take it up. It
is in this manner and on this principle that the strong horse-shoe
magnets are formed, where six or eight iron bars are united together
and lift upwards of an hundred-weight. But in order to make a
regular road for this subtile eﬂ‘luvium, it is necessary that a piece of
iron should always be in contact with the attracting and repelling
poles, by way of a magnetic conductor.
“ If one end of a poker, or any bar of iron, that has for any length
of time stood in a perpendicular position, be held near one end of a
compass. it will attract it; but ifI move the poker slowly in its ﬁrst
position till its other end comes near the needle, the needle will be
repelled. In this case it is very evident that the poker is a magnetf.’
But how came it so? By standing in the way of the earth‘s magnetic
etiiuvium. For if a new forged needlebe balanced on a point, and then
have magnetism given to it by either a natural or artiﬁcial magnet, and
be suspended again on the other point, it will be found to have lost its
balance, and w ill point so as to form an angle with the horizon ofabout
73". This is called the dip of the needle; and is mot rationally
accounted for by its eﬂluvinm falling into and becoming inﬂuenced
by the stream of the earth‘s magnetic efﬂuvinm. Iron roiling, upright
bars in windows, tongs, pokers, 8m, all become magnetic by their
Ill-nigh! position; being nearly parallel with the dip ofthe needle.
“ If a small thin piece of steel be suspended by its centre of gravity
between two ﬁne points, and placed on one end of a bar magnet, it will
stand pcrpcrdicular to the bar; if it then be slid towards the other end
of the bar, it will begin to incline towards a level ; at the middle of
the bar it will hang horirontally, and then incline and stand with its
other end perpendicular to the bar. This appears like a proof that
the globe of the earth is one great magnet; and that a similar eﬁlu
K
130 rue mscovenv OF THE VITAL P
versal fabric, by means of the all impo
gravitation.* lVe have not only shevm tl
vium ﬂows through it as through the magnets whi
from it. As iron or ferrugiuous matter is more part
through the body of the earth than any other metal
can never be in want of conducting matter.
“ How far these observations and experiments g0
doctrine of a magnetic eiliuvium ﬂowing through tilt
one end ofa magnet to the other, I must leave to y0t,
opinion; but ifwe may venture to guess at causes by eﬂi
pare analogies with what we can see and feel, 1 think
data in favour of an electro-magnetic ﬂuid."——L_ydian
“The electric virtue exerts itself most powerfully t
are found to carry it oil" or receive it in vast quantities.
a magnet will hold a piece. of iron more powerfully l
blunt point, than by a ﬂat surface.
“ The electric virtue resides on the surface, but thz
pervades the whole substance. A magnet loses noth
by communicating its virtue to other bodies, but ell
does; and lastly, the magnetic virtue is permanent;
electricity, without the greatest cure, is exceedingly
capable of being dissipated."-—Ency. Brit. ‘
* “ It is not improbable that iron nearly in a metal
one of the constituent parts of the central mass, am
owe its magnetic polarity.“—Bakewell‘s Gcology.
“Though, properly speaking, no magnet can havi
poles, viz. a north and a south one, yet it frequent
both the natural and artiﬁcial kind are divided, as it v
magnets; each of which having likewise a north and
whole appears to have a number ofpoles, some of on
and some of the other. This plurality of poles arises
shape, but more commonly from the heterogeneous natt
itself; and, with respect to those which have more tha
following laws have been observed :—1. That the parts
pole are endowed with a contrary polarity. 2. That
denomination are not always equal in number, but {hill
by more than one: thus if the magnet has four south-p0
have three, four, or ﬁve north-poles. Good and properly
however, have only two poles directly OPPOSth to one am
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 131
action is not conﬁned to our earth, but that masses of
iron have been deposited from the heavens on its
surface? The inﬂammability of iron, its ﬁbrosity,
tenacity, metallic lustre, expansion and contraction,
with the various methods necessary to be employed
for its adaptation to use, furnish ample testimony
of its identity with oxygen, and in plumbago it
is associated with the diamond; indeed, the very
word “adamas” originally signiﬁed the hardest
species of ironﬂ~ I shall only add the following
passage from Dr. Prout:—“ Iron exists in minute
quantities in all vegetable and animal products,
particularly in the blood; although its mode of
combination, as well as its precise use, are quite
unknown: Iron may justly be considered as the
must useful of all the metals, and the one that has,
perhaps, contributed more towards the civilization
of mankind than any other. To form some idea of
truth it is always one-half, or at least a great part of the magnet, that
possesses one kind of polarity, the other having the contrary kind;
the two points, which we call the poles, being only those where
the attractive virtue is strongest. These two points, in good magma“,
arr_/um- u by a [we passing through the centre, which line is called the
axis of the magnet; and a circle whoseplane is perpendicular to the axis
encompassing the middle of the magnet is called its (111m!an
Ency. Britannica.
‘ “ lron sleet of arrowy shower
Hurtles in the darken‘d air.“
Descent of Odin.—Groy.
‘i' Vosciua.
; ‘~ Iron, as it in one of the most useful of the metals, so it is one
of the most abundant, and at the same time the most universally
diffused .-- Lydiard.
K 2
132 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL
i1%
its use, we have only to reflect what '
if it was annihilated. What sul
be found for it in all the numerous.
which it contributes to the wants or tc
of mankind; particularly through th
tools, of almost every one of which
the essential material 9* In short, v
template all the circumstances connec
metal, its abundance, the manner i1
mineralized, and the occasion which
to human ingenuity to extract it from
wholesomenessﬂ~ (for many of the
poisonous;) its properties, particulari
dinary tenacityﬁ its strength, its proper
of being converted into steel, and, in
being tempered to every degree of
choose; its magnetic properties, &c
contemplate all these circumstances, it
not to be struck with such varied us
' “ Without iron the most precious metals we
remain in slmpeless masses, devoid of utility or Will
1- “lron has greater medicinal virtues than any of
Hill; but, “ according to Dr. Hooper, it has prol
the body when taken into the stomach, unless it be
its oxidizement, hydrogen gas is evolved.“
“ The chief use the ancients made of the magnet
especially for the cure of burns and deﬂections on t]
1 “ It is the hardest and most elastic of all the 1]
Med. Dictionary.
“ Though the lightest of all metals, except tin,
the bardest.“-Hill.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 133
to consider iron, not merely as an article evidently
designed for the beneﬁt of man, but as the instru
ment by which he should conquer and govern the
world; and thus be enabled to place himself, where
it was evidently intended he should be, at the head
of the creation.”
Carbon.—“ By carbon is meant the pure basis of
charcoal freed from all the hydrogen and earthy or
metallic particles which charcoal usually contains.“
“ In its crystallized or pure state it is found to con
stitute the diamond, the hardest and most brilliant
body in nature.”'f~ It has already been stated that
the diamond is a non-conductor, while carbon and
charcoal conduct electricity.
“ If a piece of wood be put into a crucible, well
covered with sand, and kept hot for some time, it
is converted into a black shining brittle substance,
without either taste or smell, well known under the
name of charcoal. Its properties are nearly the
same from whatever wood it has been obtained,
provided it be exposed for an hour in a covered
crucible to the heat of a forge.”1
“ Plumbago is a form of charcoal found native in
different parts of the world, and which serves to
diminishfriction when interposed between rubbing
surfaces. It is a mineral of a dark steel-gray
colour, and a metallic lustre; it leaves a dark
‘ Thomson‘s Chemistry. "I Dr. Front.
1 Thomson's Chemistry.
134 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL r
coloured line when drawn along paper.
red-hot, it gradually wastes away in t
and it burns with great splendor when
red-hot saltpetre."'t
“ Charcoal is insoluble in water. It i:
(provided that all air and moisture be t
the most violent heat which can be app
ing only that it is rendered much hard
brilliantrl- When charcoal is heated t
in the open air, it becomes red-hot, a
to burn (supposing it pure,) till it is
sumed. But the air in which the con
been carried on, has altered its pro
considerably, for it has become so
animals, that they cannot breathe
death”:
“From Saussure’s experiments it s
that the absorption of the gases, by
analogous to the capillary attraction (
very small tubes. The following table
bulk of the various gases, absorbed l
of charcoal, reckoned one :—
" Thomson.
1- “ Charcoal is the meat difficult substance to con‘
Solid sulphur is also with difﬁculty converted into v,
substances made to combine chemically form bisulp
a thin liquid, not known to freeze at any degree of co
and of all substances the most evaporable."-I)onauz
1 “ Charcoal is entirely dissipated or consumed
therefore," says this philosopher, (Stall!) “ it mus
nearly pure."——D~ry.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 135
Volume».
Ammoniacal gas ....... . ......... . . . . . 90
Mnriatic acid ....................... . ’55
Sulphurous acid ...................... 65
Sulphuretted hydrogen‘ ................ 55
Nitrous oxide ........................ 40
Carbonic acid ........................ 35
Olrﬁant gas .............. . ...... . . . . . 35
(‘zu bonic oxide ................... . . . . . 9.42
Oxygen ........... . ................. . 9.25
Azote............. ................... 7.5
Oxy-carburetted hydrogen . . . . . . . . ...... 5
Hydrogen ............. . .............. L751»
Here it will be seen that hydrogen, the lightest
of the gases, is that for which the carbon has least
attraction, having a greater afﬁnity with the heavier
or dense gases.
Of the combinations of carbon with the above
gases I shall enumerate four only: two with oxygen,
which are carbonic acid and carbonic oxide, two with
hydrogen,—oleﬁant gas and carburetted hydrogen.
Carbonic acid gas.—“ If small pieces of dry
charcoal be placed upon a pedestal, in a glass jar
ﬁlled with oxygen gas, and standing over mercury,
they may be kindled by means of a burning glass,
and consumed. The bulk of the gas is not sensibly
altered by this combustion, but its properties are
greatly changed. A great part of it will be found
' “ In almost every kind of pit-coal there is a quantity of pyrites
or sulphur combined with iron, by miners called brass lumps, from
their resemblance to bra-is; this sulphur is separated and subliiued,
or driven off by heat."——Bukrwrll.
f Thomson's Chemistry.
136 THE mscovmw or THE VITAL
converted into a new gas, quite d
oxygen. This new gas has received
carbonic acid. M. Lavoisier ascertain
laborious set of experiments, that i1
equal in weight to the charcoal and (
disappeared during the combustion.
concluded, that carbonic acid is a
charcoal and oxygen, and that the c
; charcoal is nothing else than its com
oxygen.” “When diamond is burn
formed but pure carbonic acid gas.""‘
The following is from the Gazette
Paris, N0. 43, 24th Oct. 1835 :-—“ At
the Academy of Sciences, Oct. 12th,
announced that he had reduced carh
to a solid form. M. Arago, who re.
from which the following particulars 5
stated that a commission had satisﬁe
of the correctness of the experiments.
“ Carbonic acid, which is gaseous
temperature and pressure, and liquii
3'2“ (F.) under a pressure of thirty-six
becomes solid at a temperature of 10
the freezing point, or (—1480 F.),
some minutes in this new condition
exposed to the air, without compressh
“Its elasticity, which in a liquid sta
' Thomson.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 137
that it produces an explosion equal to the same
weight of gunpowder, is destroyed by solidiﬁcation,
and the new solid is gradually dissipated by eva
poration. Another curious fact is, that this gas is
solidiﬁed by its suddenly passing from a liquid to a
gaseous state; the near approach of its molecules,
which constitutes it a solid, being caused by the
expansion of a liquid which occupies instantaneously
a space four hundred times greater than its primi
tive volume. If a jet of carbonic acid is directed
into a small glass vial, it becomes rapidly and
almost entirely ﬁlled with a white ﬂoculent pow
dery substance, which so strongly adheres to the
glass, that it cannot be removed unless the bottle
is broken. A fragment of solid carbonic acid,
slightly touched with the ﬁnger, glides rapidly over
a polished surface, as if it were raised by the gaseous
atmosphere which constantly surrounds it, until it
entirely disappears. If a small quantity (quelquee
(lécigrammes) of this substance is introduced into
a small ﬂask, hermetically stopped, the interior
becomes ﬁlled with a thick vapour, and the stopper
is soon driven out violently. Solid carbonic acid
is completely evaporated, and only rarely a slight
humidity remains, which must be attributed to the
ﬁction of the air on a very cold body, of which the
temperature is below that at which mercury freezes.
Its abundance, and the promptitude with which it
is produced in cavities where neither air nor watery
138 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL
vapour held in it can penetrate, are (
cannot be mistaken.”
Carbonic oxide.——“ When a mix
parts of iron-ﬁlings and chalk, both m
as dry as possible, are exposed to a
iron retort, there is disengaged a gr1
gas, consisting partly of carbonic ac:
of a species of heavy inﬂammable ai
carbonic acid is separated by means
the inﬂammable gas is obtained in a
purity. The name carbonic oxide
given it by chemists, and Cruikshan
that it is a compound of oxygen and Cd
affords a striking instance of the iden
and iron. This gas “ burns with a dc
and gives out but little light. VVlr
oxygen gas, and an electric spark p
the mixture, it detonates; one hundrc
it require for complete combustion ﬁf
oxygen gas, and the product is one
sures of carbonic acid gas. Hence it
it contains just half the oxygen that
same volume of carbonic acid gas."+
“ Carbon combines with hydrogei
portions, and forms two compounds
received the names of olqﬁrmt gas, 8.:
hydrogen”:
' 'l‘homsou. ‘l' “)l(
I “ ('bt mists have shown that diﬂ'erent volume“
- 3
0R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 139
Oleﬁant gas.—“ It is easily obtained by mixing
together in a retort four parts of sulphuric acid,
and one part of alcohol, and applying the heat of a
lamp while the beak of the retort is plunged into a
water-trough. A gas comes over in abundance,
“lllCh may be received in glass jars inverted over
u riter. Oleﬁant gas, thus prepared, is invisible,
and possesses the mechanical properties of common
air] It is destitute both of taste and smell. This
gas burns with greater splendor than any other
known gas, and detonates very loudly when mixed
with thrice its bulk of oxygen gas, and an electrical
spark is passed through it. It requires for its com
plete combustion three times its volume of oxygen
gas, and produces, when burnt, twice its volume of
carbonic acid gas. The only other product is water.
Now, two of the three volumes of oxygen gas must
have gone to the formation of carbonic acid. The
remaining volume must have gone to the formation
of water, and it must have combined with a quantity
of hydrogen, which in an uncombined state would
have amounted to two volumes."
Carburetted hydrogen.——“ The other compound
of hydrogen and carbon, is a gaseous substance
booy, termed carburetted hydrogen, combine together and form
various compounds; we have, for example, a gas one volume of
which contains two volumes of carburetth hydrogen; another, one
volume of Whll‘ll contains three, and another four, of the same gaseous
body "—Prout. Bridgm'aler Treatises.
I40 'rna mscovnny OF THE VITA
which exhales in hot weather from .1
especially from ditches in the nei
tovms. It is colourless, and posses
nical properties of common air. W
neither taste nor smell. When a
from a tube is kindled in the open ai
a yellow ﬂame, giving out a gooe
When mixed with oxygen gas, and
trical spark is passed through the n
nates with considerable violence. 1
unless the bulk of the oxygen rat
own bulk; and it ceases to burn w
is more than two and a quarter timi
If we mix it with common air, it bur
to one-twelfth of the air, and it can
exceeds one-sixth of the air. In
between these two extremes, it burn
For complete combustion it requires '
of oxygen gas, and produces exactly
of carbonic acid gas. The only rei
is water. Now it is obn'ous that
oxygen went to the formation of CH]
the other half to the formation of w
portion must have combined with
hydrogen, which, if it had been in
state, would have amounted to twic
the original gas. The gas which
abundance in some coal-mines, and
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 141
long the dread of miners, under the name of ﬁre
dmnp, is pure carburetted hydrogen)“
" Among the very interesting circumstances elicited by the late
examinations respecting the coal-mines, which took place before the
Select Committee of the House of Commons, were the following:
“ Mr. Nicholas Wood.
“ This porosity of the coal, 1 think, corroborates what we ﬁnd in
experience in working the mines; in the course of working, we ﬁnd
the gas issue from innumerable pore: over the whole surface of the exca
raliun; that is one mode in which the gas is evolved in the mine, and
the ﬁnce with which it is evolved depends very much on the depth of the
mine, and other circumstances respecting the dikes that cross the coal
strata in almost every direction."
Mr. Huddle, (speaking of the Bensham one-yard seam).
“ I found the coal prodigiously ﬁery, so much so, that the coal
itself afforded gas enough to light the pit! l!“
“ Was that independent of any particular ﬁssure or brack l“
“ Yes; I simply drilled a hole into the solid coal, and stuck a tin
pipe into the aperture, surrounded with clay, and lighted it, andl
had immediately a gas-light; the quantity of gas evolved from the
coal was such, that in every one of those places lhad nothing to
do but to set a candle,snd then could set a thousand ﬁssures on ﬁre:
the whole face of the working was a gas-pipe from every pore of
the coal; and when the shots were ﬁred for blasting down the coal,
they generally set ﬁre to the gas as it was evolved from the coal."
_ Mechanic's Magazine.
“ Perhaps nothing tends to give a stronger or more impressive idea
of the terrible proximity to danger in which the coal-miner or pit
man pursues his labour, than the manner in which the carburetted
hydrogen is evolved above-ground at one or two of the Newcastle
pits, and was formerly the case also at Workington and Whitehsveu.
Not far from Wallsend church, a four-inch pipe connected at the pit
bottom with an insulated portion of coal strata extending about four
acres, is carried up as high as the head-gear; from the oriﬁce of this
tube there constantly issues an ignited stream of gas forming a ﬂag
of ﬂame, at least eight or nine feet in length. At night, and indeed
during the day, this is conspicuous to a considerable distance; and
on approaching the spot, such is the force with which the inﬂammable.
vapour is emitted, that it produces a sound like the roaring ofa blast
furnace. The immense natural gssomcter in which this tremendous
142 THE mscovnnr on THE vn‘u
“ Charcoal, however carefully mad<
tains a small portion of hydrogen, 1
cannot be freed by heatﬁ“ Davy f01
charcoal or plumbago were burnt i
gas, there was always an evident
moisture. Hence it is obvious that p
wise, contains a minute quantity of h
composition. It is difﬁcult to deter
carbon or hydrogen have the Stl‘OIlg
oxygen. Their afﬁnity for each at.
and promotes the decomposition of tl
which they are applied. When red-l
plunged into water, the liquid is dec
bihydroguret of carbon (carburetted
formed, so that this is not a case of 1
placement of hydrogen by carbon.
the property of decomposing carbonit
red lzeat. But in this case also the]
agent is collected, supplies the ﬂame at the rate 0
per minute! There is a similar emission at Willi]
discharge is most vehement when the wind bio“
east. 'l‘en times as much gas is evolved annuailj
used in illuminating the large town of Slicﬂ‘ieh
remarkable that in the coal districts of the Britis
a largcness of carburetted hydrogen is annually prl
not been adopted for making an economical use (
respects light and heat.“
‘ “New-made charcoal absorbs moisture with
Allen and Pepys found that, when left for a day
increased in weight about 12} per rent. The gr
increase was owing to moisture, which it emitti
when exposed under mercury to the heat of 214°.“
0a, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 143
complicated; for the acid is not completely decom
posed, but merely reduced to carbonic oxide. The
opinion at present entertained by chemists is, that
hydrogen has a stronger afﬁnity for oxygen than
carbon has; but this opinion is not supported by
any facts that can be considered as deeisive."*
“ Carbon, perhaps, more than any other principle,
may be considered as constituting the staminal 0r
fundamental element entering into the composition
of organized beings. This is particularly the case
in principles from the vegetable kingdom, which
owe their peculiar character essentially to carbon,
and their endless varieties to differences in its quan
tity, and to the modifying inﬂuence of the hydrogen
and oxygen with which it is associated. In animal
substances carbon exerts a similar inﬂuence, but its
effects are materially modiﬁed by the presence of
another staminal principle to be presently consi
dered. Carbon, in some state or other, exists in
considerable quantities upon the surface of our
globe, but apparently by no means in so large a
proportion as oxygen and hydrogen. Exclusively
of that actually involved in the composition of
organized beings, carbon is met with nearly pure
in particular districts, in the well known form of
_/'os.sil coals :1“ but it occurs in far greater propor
‘ Thomson.
1' “(‘arbnnrle (rurbunrulus. Latin. a little noal,) i: ajewel, shining in
[44 "run DISCOVERY or THE vr'rm
tion in combination with oxygen i1
carbonic acid; which carbonic acid
lime constitutes common chalk and 1
of the most abundant minerals in na
in its elementary state is a very in
and is scarcely liable to be aﬂ'ected ‘
organized beings; but with hydrogt
it forms gaseous compounds of grea
capable of proving instantly fatal to i
ing them. In the mean time it ma:
that though the compound of carb
(carbonic acid) is by innumerable j
the dark, like a lighted coal or candle. ‘ it is believ
does shine in the dark like a burning coal; frou
name.’-—Willrius. Carbuncle is a stone of the ru
blood-red colour."- lVoorIward.
“ This gem was known among the ancients by 1
It is usually found pure and faultless, and is of
hardness with the sapphire; it is naturally of an 1
found adhering, by its base, to a heavy andferruginn
kind; its usual size is near a quarter of an inch
thirds of that in diameter in its thickest parts: w‘
the sun, it loses its deep tinge, and becomes exact
a burning charcOal, whence the propriety of t]
ancients gave it. It bears thcﬁre unaltered, not pa
nor becoming at all the paler by it. It isfmmd only i
ﬁn- as is yet known; and there but very rarely."
' “In order to give some idea of the proport
exists in different common substances, it may be 01
of charcoal is equal to, and is contained in rather in
ofsugar or ﬂour, and eight of potatoes or limesto
tain of limestone contains the essential element
bulk of potatoes, and ofa forest that would amp]
nionntains."—-Dr. Prnnt.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 145
m meA
stantly forming around us in enormous quantities;
by some compensating means, it disappears asﬁwt
as it isformed: so that the atmosphere, which
without this provision would probably before now
have become contaminated by carbonic acid to an
extent fatal to animal life, barely contains traces
of it.“
The same eminent writer we have just quoted
says also, “ Let us propose to ourselves the
question—What ought to be the inherent properties
and the constitution of an elementary principle,
which should not only be capable of being formed
into the hardest and the softest bodies in nature;
but which should also be capable of entering as an
essential ingredient into“ substances so very unlike
as sugar, vinegar, wood, oil, albumen, and many
others, in all their countless forms and varieties?
Nay, what is more, even when the question is an
swered for us; and when, with the utmost care, and
to the furthest extent ofour ability, we have studied
all the chemical properties of carbon—the substance
by which the conditions of the question are ful
ﬁlled; how totally unable are we to explain these
properties, or even to trace them through their
simplest modiﬁcations? Why; for instance, is the
diamond capable of assuming the form of charcoal;
or why is charcoal capable of assuming the form of
' Dr. Prout.
\
146 THE DISCOVERY or 'rns vrm
the diamond? And how are these p
ﬁed, and altered, in all the num
combination into which we know
On what property or quality, not p0:
elements, do all those astonishing
change depend, which are inherent
carbon? And why has carbon b
forming organized beings in prefers
iron, or any other element P” To tl
questions I would reply that the
been given to carbon, because it is
tiblc nature ; to the end that our org
may be preserved to its third and
existence, it has been formed of (
material is by combustion resolved
carbon?"F
' “Charcoal is much less liable to putrefy or
not, therefore, so apt to decay by age. This pr
known. It was customary among the ancients
those stokes which were to be driven into the
water, in order to preserve the wood from spoili
coal, by being rolled up in clothes which have c
ble odour, eﬁ'ectually destroys it. When boiled
putrefy it takes away the bad taint. It is, per]
powder known. Mr. Lowitz of Petersburg, h:
be used with advantage to purify a great variety
putrid water at sea is mixed with about one-n
charcoal-powder it is rendered quite fresh, and :
tity of charroal will serve if the precaution be
sulphuric acid previously to the water. If the w
before they are ﬁlled, the liquid remains gom
This precaution ought always to be taken for lo
same precaution, when attended to for wine-cask
much to improve the quality of the wine."-—-Th¢
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 147
Hgdrogeue (so called by Lavoisier) “signiﬁes the
generative principle of water; from 63‘”, ‘water,’
and yen/0pm, ‘ I produce.‘ It is the lightest sub
stance yet known, being one-thirteenth ofthe weight
of an equal bulk of atmospheric air.“ It is plen
tifully distributed in nature, and acts a very con
siderable part in the processes of the animal and
vegetable economy. It is one of the ingredients in
the varieties of bitumen, oils, fats, ardent spirit,
ether, and in fact all the proximate component parts
of animal and vegetable bodiesxf~ It is one of the
constituents of ammonia, and of various other com
pound gases. It possesses so great an afﬁnity for
caloric, that it can only exist separately in the state
of gas; it is consequently impossible to procure it
in the concrete or liquid state, independent of com
bination. Solid hydrogen, therefore, united to
calorie and light, forms hydrogen gas. Hydrogen
gas, in whatever manner produced, always origi
nates from water, either in consequence of a pre
vious decomposition, by which it had been combined
in the state of solid or ﬁxed hydrogen, with one of
the substances employed, or from a decomposition
of water actually taking place during the expe
riment. It is unabsorbable by most substances;
water absorbs it very sparingly. It is capable of
‘ Envy. Britannica.
" This has been shown to be the case with carbon.
L2
148 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITA
(lissolring carbon, sulphur, phosp
and many other bodies. It does no
substances.“ “ Hydrogen gas, like
and elastic, and capable of indeﬁni
and dilatationfi~ “ It is eminentl
and if pure, burns with a yellowia
but from accidental contamination,
frequently a reddish tinge. Hyd
with chlorine at a lower temperat
oxygen. By exposing oxygen and
ﬁned in glass tubes, to a very dull rt
F they explode. When this heat wa
they combined rapidly with a species
bastion. The inﬁaming temperature
of compression or rarefaction."1 “I
when kindled, in contact with atmo
oxygen gas, by means of the ei’ectrz
an inﬂamed body; all burning substa
diately extinguished when immerse
therefore, incapable of supporting
“ When animals are obliged to breatl
die. The death is occasioned merelj
the animal of oxygen. The animal
as it would do if plunged under w:
narrow jar ﬁlled with hydrogen be
dieularly with the bottom upwards,
' Dr. Hooper. 1' Thomson.
|| Dr. Hooper. §
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 14‘.)
taper he suddenly introduced, the taper will be
extinguished, but the gas will burn at the surface,
in contact with the air.”""
To ascertain the purity of hydrogen gas, “mix
any quantity of hydrogen gas with its bulk of oxy
gen, and ﬁre it by means of an electric spark; note
the diminution of bulk that takes place; two-thirds
of that diminution is hydrogen. Suppose we mix
twenty measures of hydrogen and twenty of oxygen,
and ﬁre them by means of electricity. Suppose the
residual gas, after the experiment, ten measures.
Thirty measures have disappeared. Two-thirds of
that, or twenty measures, were hydrogen. There
fore, in such a case, the hydrogen examined would
be considered as pure.”+ “The discovery of M.
Dobereiner, that a stream of hydrogen made to play
on a few grains of pulverulent or spongy platinum
placed in a little glass cone, ignited it to such a
degree as to kindle the gas, may be regarded as
one of the most singular phenomena of chemistry.
The aperture of the hydrogen jet should be from one
to two inches distant from the platinum, in order
that the atmospheric air may be intermingled.
71w incandescence continues as long as the gas
" Ure's Chemical Dictionary. It is the combustion of the oxygen
gas deposited from the sun, with the hydroan ascending from the
surface of the planetary bodies, that Occasions their luminous appear
;. we.
1' Thomson,
150 THE mscovnnv on THE VITA]
continues toﬂow. It is truly surpri
a re-aetion apparently mechanical
forms of matter, one the lightest, ant
densest known, so intense an qﬂ'ect ."
measures of atmospheric air are mix'
hydrogen, and a lighted taper, or an
applied to the mixture, explosion tals
measures of gas disappear, and mo:
sited on the inside of the glass. Whei
of hydrogen, mixed with one of oxy
natcd, the whole is condensed into
therefore, we see the origin of the n
a term derived from the Greek to de
former. If a bottle containing tl
mixture of iron and dilute sulphurh
with a cork, having a straight tube
ﬁxed upright in it, then the hydrogt
a jet, which being kindled, forms th
candle of Dr. Priestley. If along gla
over the ﬂame, moisture will spee
sides, and harmonic tones will soonl
Mr. Faraday, in an ingenious paper
10th number of the Journal of Scicn
carbonic oxide produces, by the act
similar sounds, and that therefore t
due to the affections of aqueous w
formerly been supposed. He shows
Q L] H.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 151
is nothing more than the report of a continued
explosion, agreeably to Sir H. Davy’s just theory
of the constitution of ﬂame. Vapour of ether, made
to burn from a small aperture, produces the same
sonorous effect as the jet of hydrogen, of coal gas,
or olcﬁant gas, on glass and other tubes. Globes
from seven to two inches in diameter, with short
necks, give very low tones; bottles, Florence ﬂasks,
and phials always succeeded; air-jars from four
inches diameter to a very small size, may be used.
Some angular tubes were constructed of long narrow
slips of glass and wood, placing three or four toge
ther, so as to form a triangular or square tube, tying
them round with pack-thread. These held over
the hydrogen gave distinct tones."* “Hydrogen
gas has usually a slight garlick odour, but when
water is transmitted orer pure iron in a state
of ignition, it yields hydrogen more free from
smell."+
Hydrogen gas “has so great an attraction for
oxygen, that it attracts it from caloric; so that
its inﬂammable property is merely its power of
decomposing oxygenous gas, for it will not burn
by itself."$ “There are instances recorded of
a vapour issuing from the stomach of dead
persons, which took ﬁre on the approach of a
' Pro. 1* Ibid. I Ency. Britannica.
152‘ THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPL!
candle. We even ﬁnd accounts, in several worl
of the combustion of living human beings whi
appeared to be spontaneous. The cause of tl
phenomenon has been attributed to a develt
ment of hydrogen gas taking place in the s
machs of these individuals. Citizen Lair l
lievcd that the bodies of these persons were I
burned perfectly spontaneously, but it appear ed
be owing to some very slight external cause, su
as the ﬁre of a candle, taper, or pipe.“ “ Hydi
gen is the lightest body known, and under the $211
bulk, therefore, contains less matter than any otl'
bodyrf' It does not exist naturally in a separz
state, but always in combination; and by far ml
generally and abundantly in combination w
oxygen in the form of water. Hydrogen ran:
perhaps, next to oxygen in importance, at least
far as organized beings are concerned; since, li
oxygen, it Constitutes one of the elementary pr
ciples of which they are formed. It differs, he
ever remarkably, from oxygen, in not being in
elementary state necessary to the existence of or;
nizcd beings; indeed, hydrogen is actually incc
patible with the existence of animals, if not
' Hooper.
'5‘ “ From the great rarity of hydrogen, it is employed for the
pose of inﬂating varnished silk bags, which are raised in the air 11‘
the name of balloons."-— Urc.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 153
vegetables; and its properties as an element have
evidently been sacriﬁced to its properties as a com
pound, that is to say, to its properties as water.
Hence, we have to admire the happy adjustment of
the quantities of the two elements to each other, so
that the oxygen shall predominate; an adjustment
that can scarcely be explained on any other suppo
sition than that of design; for any other cause, as
chance, would have been quite as likely to have pro
duced an excess of hydrogen as of oxygen, or at least
anything but the exact proportions required. Lastly,
it may be remarked, that to the relative proportions
of oxygen and hydrogen existing on our globe,
more than perhaps to any other subordinate cause,
the present order of things owes its stability. For'
the proportions of these principles are so happily
adjusted and balanced, and all the numerous opera
tions dependent upon them are, in consequence, so
ﬁrmly established, that no material change can
possibly happen to any part from an internal cause,
but if changed at all, the whole must be changed
from without.""‘
Oxygen—A term adopted in chemistry to “express
the acidifying principle; from 051:; (acid), and ylvopal
(/0 generate.) It is not found naturally in a sepa
rate state, but always combined or mixed with some
other substance. In its aeriform or elastic state, it
‘ Prunt.
l54 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPI
is called by the French chemists oxygenous g4
and is the same as the dephogisticated air of
Priestley and Cavendish, the empyreal air
Scheele, the vital air and pure air of other mod
chemistsri- It was called dephlogisticatcd by
followers of Stahl’s doctrine, who imagined it tn
airdeprivedquhlogiston,1 the epithet ofempy:
was given to it by Mr. Schecle, who ﬁrst diseovc
it to be the only constituent part of the atmosph
which contributes to support inﬂammation or 0‘
bustion.|| He made many curious experiments
inﬂammation, and was the ﬁrst who comple
analyzed common air, showing it to consist
twenty-seven parts of empyreal, scventy-twc
' “One of the most remarkable combinations into which
capable of entering, is that which it forms with light and cal
The nature of that mysterious union has not been ascertained, l'
is certain that, in that state, it constitutes the gaseous ﬂuid c
oxygen gas."-Dr. Hooper.
1' “ It is the cause of animal heat, and hastens germination.“—
1 That oxygen is the form in which the sun‘s matter is depo
at our earth, cannot be for a moment doubted; in its progrrss tl
to us it parts with its imponderable portion, which is hydrogen.
will be recollected that two volumes of hydrogen form, witl
addition of one volume of oxygen, 1 drop of water. The two vol
of hydrogen are lost, and the third of oxygen falls in its solid sin
the surface of our earth‘s atmosphere, whereitforms new (Ombil'lnl
“ All bodies increase in weight by burning, and there is no loss oi
derablc matter.“—Davy. (‘arbon is heavier than atmospheric air
imponderahle hydrogen alone escapes, and ascends in the prom
combustion. (See p. 36 of this work.)
1‘ “ Common atmospheric air was found by Scheele to pr~
animal life in a manner somewhat similar to its promoting Col
tion.“-—Enc_I/. Brilanuica.
5
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 155
foul, and one ofﬁxed air. He found these twenty
seven parts only were consumed by a burning
body; and that these, during the act of combustion,
were united and combined with the inﬂammable
body burnt in them, so as to form a compound no
longer combustible.* Lavoisier, extending these
experiments, found that the body thus produced by
empyrcal air, being combined with the matter of
the inﬂammable body burnt in it, was, in many
cases, an acid; in consequence of which property,
he gave this air the name of oxygen,” i. e. the
generator of acidity-b
“ Oxygen gas is colourless and invisible, like
common air. Like it, too, it is elastic, and capable
of indeﬁnite expansion and compression. It has not
perceptible taste, and, when pure, is destitute of
smell."1’ “ It is somewhat heavier than common
air.”fl “ It is 740 times lighter than the same bulk
of water; its speciﬁc gravity is to that of hydrogen
‘ ‘- When substances are burnt in oxygen gas, or in any other gas
containing oxygen, if the air be examined after the combustion, we
shall ﬁnd that a great part of the oxygen has disappeared. If char
Coal. for instance, be burnt in oxygen gas, there will be found,
instead of part of the oxygen, another very different gas, known
b_\ the name of carbonic acid gas. The oxygen, in this can, coni
bin's with the combustible body. The new compound formed is
called an oxide, or sometimel an acid. Exactly the same thing takes
place when air is relpired by animals; part of the oxygen gas disap
pears, and its place is occupied by substances possessed of very diﬂcr—
rnt properties."-'l‘homson.
f Ency. Britannica. 1 Thomson. 5, lbid.
156 THE mscovsmr or THE VITAL PRINCIPL
gas as ﬁfteen to one. Its power of refracting 1i.
is stated by Biot and Arago to be, to that of liyd
gen, nearly as 1958 to 1000. Its capacity
heat, according to Dr. Crawford, is nearly as 4.7
21.4.”""
The term oxyrl is used to express “a v
numerous class of bodies, formed by the an
of certain bases with a smaller proportion
oxygen than what is necessary for their conv
sion into acids. The most. remarkable of th
bodies are what were formerly called meta
calees, and have for their base some metallic $1
stance. It is in this state that metals are contaii
in their ores, from which they are extracted, 2
converted into the reguline or metallic form, by'
process called reductionri' Metals are conver'
* Davy.
1 “ The nature of this process has been much disputed, and
question on this subject involves in itself great part of the cor
versy between the followers of the immortal Stahl and the justlyi
brated Lavoisier, the founders of the phlogistic and antileo;
theories, which for some years divided the chemical world. A '
of this question, sufﬁciently distinct, may be taken from the ca:
metals and their oxyds. Metallic calves. (oxyds,l say the phlt
tians, are simple bodies, which, when united with phlogiston, 1
metals. The process of rrdurtion consists, in exposing tln ore
metals to an intense heat in contact with some inﬂammable h
most commonly charcoal. During this operation, say they, the l llill
being inﬂamed, parts with its phlogiston, which is imu "lil
absorbed by the calx, and a metal is formed. Lavoisier and
followers, on the contrary, contended that metals are simple but
but that in the state of oxyds. that is. as they commonly exist int
ores, they are combined with or) gen. But as oxvgrn at a high
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 157
into oxyds by combustion, and by solution in acids;
and many of them assume this form from the action
of the atmosphere alone, but more readily when
this is assisted by moisture. During their conver
sion into oxyds, metals loose their splendour, and,
acquiring a considerable increase of absolute weight,
put on an earthy, pulverulent appearance. It has
of late been supposed that all earths are metallic
oryds, and that all of them would be capable of
reduction, were we possessed of any body for which
oxygen had a stronger elective attraction than that
by which it is kept in conjunction with the bases of
tln-sc supposed oxyds."" The term oxyd, how
ever, is not conﬁned to the combinations of metals
with oxygen, but expresses that ﬁrst degree of
oxygenation in all bodies which, without con
verting them into acids, causes them to approach
to the nature of salts; and of these there is a pro
digious variety: as, the oxyd of phosphorus, which is
the white concrete substance into which that body
is converted by combustion; the oxyd of azote, or
nitrous air of Dr. Priestley; and a great many
others. Most of the oxyds from the vegetable and
animal kingdoms have bases compounded of different
perature is more strongly attracted by charcoal than by most metals,
during the process of reduction the oxyd is decompmmded, and the
oxygen unites with the charcoal to form carbonic acid, leaving the
regnlus or metal froc."——Ency. Britannica.
' Iron, (or oxygen in its most ponderable state,) is the base of all
metals.
H.
-M
,w-(Yw'f-ww—A
-
158 THE mscovnnv or THE VITAL rumor?!
simple combustible bodies. Thus, sugar, all
gums, mucus, and starch are vegetable org/(ls;
bases of which are hydrogen andcarbon combi
in various proportions. We ﬁnd accordingly, 1
all these bodies are, by farther additions of a
gen, conrertible into acids; and it is probable 1
these acids differ from each other only in
proportion of the hydrogen and carbon in t
bases. The bases of the animal oxyds are
more complicated; all, or most of them, consis
of various combinations of azote, phosphorus, hy|
gen, carbon, and sulphur.“ “As the world
present exists, oxygen perhaps may be fairly (
sidered as one of the most important, if not the n
important substance in it. From its pronenes
enter into composition, it is constantly opera
upon and modifying every thing. By far
greater proportion of mineral bodies forming
crust of the earth, contain more or less of it;
in all plants and animals it actually exists a
constituent elementary principle. In short,
properties of oxygen stamp it as an element
subordinate agent of the most important ki
while. the numberless contrivanees which are
servable in nature, to secure, or evade, or mo
its operations, are most extraordinary, and exh
some of the most marked and unequivocal evidei
‘ Encyt Britannica.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 159
of design on the part of their great Contrivor, that
we meet with among his works. Several of the
most important of these contrivanccs we shall have
occasion to allude to hereafter; but there is one of
so curious and interesting a character, that it may
be mentioned here as an illustration of the above
remarks. The nature and mechanism of the func
tion of respiration will be explained elsewhere, and
it is sufﬁcient for our present purpose to state that,
by means of a complicated apparatus, the blood is
made to circulate through the lungs, in order that
it may be there exposed to the oxygen of the
atmosphere. For purposes beyond our comprehen
sion, but probably in part at least with a view to
the future creation of organized beings, the great
Architect of the Universe had willed that this prin
ciple should exist upon the surface of our globe in
a gaseous state; when he created animals, he chose
also to render them dependent upon oxygen for
their existence; and he eﬁ'ects his object, not by
bending this principle to his purpose, by altering
its physical or other properties; not by obtaining
it from water, or any of the innumerable compounds
into which it enters, which according to our imper
fect notions he might have more easily done; but,
as if on purpose to display his power and design,
he rigidly adheres to the properties, both mecha
nical and chemical, imparted to oxygen, and to
these properties accommodates his future labours!
160 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCII
W“; _’
The whole, therefore, of the complicated and l
tiful apparatus connected with the respiratic
animals is most obviously designed and constri
with reference to the properties of the oxyg
the atmosphere, and altogether they aiTord o
the most striking evidences of adaptation
design presented to us in nature.“
Dr. Ure says that “combustion is powei
supported by oxygen gas. Any inﬂammable
stance, previously kindled, and introduced in
burns rapidly and vividly.” “If a lighted tallt
let dovm into a phial ﬁlled with oxygen g:
burns with such splendour that the eye can sca
bear the glare of light; and at the same time
duces a much greater heat than when burnir
common air. It is well known that a candli
into a well-closed jar ﬁlled with common 2
extinguished in a few seconds. This is the
also with a candle inclosed in oxygen gas; 1
burns much longer in an equal quantity of tha
than of common air."+ “If an iron or copper
be introduced into a bottle of oxygen gas, w
bit of lighted touchwood or charcoal at the e1
will burn with a bright light and throw out a an
of sparks. The bottom of the bottle shoul
covered with sand, that these sparks may IlOlH
it. If the wire, coiled up in a spiral form, like a
* Dr. Front. 1' Thomson.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 10!
screw, as it usually is in this experiment, be moved
with a jerk the instant a melted globule is about to
fall, so as to throw it against the side of the glass,
it will melt its way through in an instant, or, if the
jerk be less violent, lodge itself in the substance of
the glass. If it be performed in a bell-glass, set
in a plate ﬁlled with water, the globules will fre
quently fuse the vitreous glazing of the plate, and
unite with it so as not to be separable without
detaching the glaze, though it has passed through,
perhaps, two inches of water.”"‘ “ No substance
will burn in common air previously deprived of all
the oxygen gas which it contains. But combustibles
burn with great splendor in oxygen gas, or in other
gases to which oxygen has been added.”+ “Air,
analyzed in different quarters of the globe, in cities,
and in the country, on sea and land, has been found
not perceptibly different in composition. It has
been shown by the experiments of Dr. Priestley,
Mr. Dalton, and M. Berthollet, that different elastic
ﬂuids have a tendency to rapid equable mixture,
even when at rest, and exposed to each other on
small surfaces only; and the mixture of the parts
of the atmosphere is constantly assisted by winds,
by currents of air, and by all the motions taking
' This experiment forcibly reminds us of the singular property
ofwelding which belongs to iron: two pieces of this metal, when their
surface is partially fused, are by force made to adhere together.
1' Thomson.
M
rm
\
162 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE.
place on the surface of the earth. In all process
of combustion in the atmosphere, oxygen is eith
ﬁxed in the combustible body, or it dissolves it,
forms a new compound with it.“ “In respirati<
the volume of air is not changed, but a part of i
oxygen disappears, and an equal bulk of carbon
acid gas is found in its place. As the constitution
the atmosphere constantly remains the same, it is c‘
dent that there must be some processes in nature I
which a quantity of oxygen is produced equal
that consumed. One principal cause of the TOY}
vation of oxygen appears to be in the process
vegetation; healthy plants exposed in the sunshii
to air containing small quantities of carbonic at
gas, destroy that elastic ﬂuid, and evolve oxyg
gas; so that the two great classes of organiz
beings are dependent upon each other. Carboi
acid gas, which is formed in many processes of co
bustion, as well as in respiration, if not remov
from air, by its excess would be deleterious
animals, but it is a healthy food of vegetables; a
vegetables produce oxygen, which is necessary
the existence of animals; and thus this part of 1
economy of nature is preserved by the very fu1
tions to which it is subservient; and the order C
played in the arrangement demonstrates the int
ligence by which it was designed. N0 other for
"' Davy.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 163
of matter have been produced from oxygen by any
processes by which it has been submitted; but it
readily enters into combination, and no substance is
more active as a chemical agent. Its operations, as
will be seen hereafter, are connected with many of
the arts; with the processes of bleaching, dyeing,
colour-making, and metallurgy; and in its various
applications to the production ofﬁre, it is absolutely
essential to cultivation, and to the comforts and
cnjoymcnts of social life. In the phenomena of
nature, it occasions a wonderful diversity of effects.
It is active in most of the changes taking place on
the surface of the globe, and its constant tendency
is to unite diﬂ'erent substances in forms adapted
for the purposes of organized Life.“
I have said in the commencement of this Chapter
that water is our gravitating element. “ Hydrogen
and oxygen, in the proportion of about two mea—
sures of hydrogen to one of oxygen, when united
chemically, and reduced from the form of an air
to that of a liquid, constitute the ﬂuid, water."+
It would be useless in a limited work like the present
to attempt to give- any account of the various pro
perties of water; neither indeed is it necessary to
" Davy.
f Dr. Hooper-'5 Medical Dictionary. “ According to Kirwan, all
simple substances must have been coeval with the creation, and have
existed in the chaoticﬂuid, and originally, at least, in an uncombined
state, the component parts of water alone excepted."—Mn.um 6001.
M 2
164 THE mscovnm;v or THE vn‘iti. PRINCIPL
do so, for its uses in the operations of nature,
application to the purposes of the arts and life, in
be suﬂiciently understood. I will therefore me]
state, in conclusion, that from the testimonials
various authors quoted in this Chapter, the fOllt
ing facts must be admitted:
1. That Adamas, or the Diamond, originally;
niﬁed the hardest species of iron.*
2. That iron is found combined with oxygcnxi
3. That carbon and hydrogen are the base of
animal and vegetable oxydcsi
4. That iron contains hydrogen, oxygen, 1
carbon.H
5. That carbon, or charcoal, is the diamond.§
6. Carbon and charcoal contain hydrogenﬁ]
’ Vossius. 4‘ Lydiard. MS.
1; Ency. Britannica.
|| Lydiard. MS. “Mr. Bergman informs us, thatthe great ma
native metal found in Siberia resembles forged iron in its compositi
centenary, or sixty-three grains, yielding forty-nine cubic inch
irylammable air; and from many experiments it appears, that di
iron yields from forty-eight to ﬁfty-one cubic inches of the samv
of air. Dr. Matthew Guthrie informs us, that ‘thc pores of this
wmjilltd with a ycllow vitreous mutter, Qfsurh hardness as to cul L."
The cells are lined with a kind of varnish contiguous to the g1
substance within.“—-Ency. Britannica.
§ Davy.
1i Thomson. “ It is demonstrated that diamond aﬁ'ords no (
substance by its combustion than pure carbonic acid gas; and
the process is merely a. solution of diamond in oxygen, without
change in the volume of the gas. It likewise appears, that in
combustion of the different kinds of charcoal, water is produced ;
that from the diminution of the volume of the oxygen there is e
on, ansloLocr or MAN. 165
7. Diamond contains oxygen.*
8. Thus the diamond, like iron, contains hydro
gen, oxygen, and carbon.
9. Carbon, nine parts, to one part of iron, con
stitute plumbagory
10. Plumbago is not essentially diﬂ'erent from the
diamondi
l 1. So that the diamond is identical not only with
hydrogen, oxygen, and carbon, but with iron also,
as we at ﬁrst stated.
12. Hydrogen and oxygen, united in certain pro
portions, constitute water.
13. Water frequently contains carbonic acid and
iron,“ both of which are to be traced to the dia
mond.§
reason to believe, that the water is formed by the combultion qfhydro
gm existing in strongly ignited charcoal. As the charcoal from oil
of turpentine left no residuum, no other cause but the presence of
hydrogen can be assigned for the diminution occasioned in the volume
of the gas during its combustion."—- Ure.
‘ Davy. “ If charcoal be thrown up into hydrogen gas, the hy
drogen is ﬁrst wrought upon, then the oxygen thrown oﬂ'.“—Brmule.
‘l' Lydiard. MS. 1 Davy.
|] “ Mr. Foureroy informs us, that it has been discovered some
years ago, that iron is often united naturally with the phosphoric
acid. The muddy or bog ores are sometimes of this nature : a portion
of this compound remaining in the iron gives it the property of being
brittle when cold. Iron in this state was called siderite by Bergman,
and has since been called water-iron. Different kinds of iron-ore are
found adhering in some mines to the tops of caverns in the form of
icirles or striaz, sometimes irregularly clustered together, sometimes
hanging down like the bristles of a brush; from whence the name of
brush iron-orc."-—Ency. Britannica.
§ “ At the late meeting of the British Association, at Bristol, Mr.
THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE
14. And the diamond in its most pure and per
fect state resembles a drop of clear spring waterf"
It may, perhaps, be considered by some of my
readers, that in this Chapter I have made too long
a digression: prior, however, to entering upon the
more minute physiological branches of this work, I
have thought it necessary more particularly to iden
tify the materials from which the wonderful fabric of
the human machinery is wrought, lest the subject
should not be completely understood: it might like
wise havc been objected by some, that in positively
asserting all matter to be diamond, I had assumed too
much ;——-to such I feel assured the evidenceshere pre
sented from the most undoubted authorities cannot
be otherwise than satisfactory. Volumes might have
Cross, of Broomﬁeld, Somerset, stated that he had devoted much of
his time to electricity, and he had latterly been Occupied in improve
mcnts in the voltaic power, by which he had succeeded in kccping It
in full force for twelve months by water alone, rejecting acids entircl).
M r. Cross then proceeded to state, that he had obtained water from a
ﬁnely crystallized cave at Holway, and by the action of the voitaic
battery had succeeded in producing from that water, in the course ul
ten days, numerous rhomboidal crystals, resembling those of the cave;
in order to ascertain if light had any inﬂuence in the process, he tried
it again in a dark cellar, and produced similar crystals in six days,
with one-fourth of the voltaic power. He had repeated the experi
ments a hundred times, and always with the same results. 11¢ was
fully convinced that it was possible to make mu diamonds, and that a! no
distant pt'riod every kind of mineral would [reformed by the ingenuity ('1'
mnn."—— chkly Dispute/I, Sept. 4th, 1836.
“ In reference to the transparency of the diamond, Tammie: say s.
“ L‘cau quc l‘on nmnmc rclcste est la pire dr tontes, ct il est imposs-il lc
dc la reconnoitre tandis que la picrre est boutc."
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 167
been written on each material separately, but I
trust the slight sketch I have given will afford
ample illustration of the theory advanced: it will
at least afford an opportunity of embracing, in a
small compass, the facts which I have found it
necessary to become acquainted with myself, by
much research, in the pursuit of my undertaking.
168 THE mseovnnr 0F rm: VITAL PRINCIPLE,
CHA P. IV.
'1‘“ E VITAL PRINCIPLE.
“ Life is the triumph of vital over physical laws."
LIFE, the most wonderful of all known phenomena,
has occupied the attention of the greatest men of
all ages, from the most remote period up to the
present time. Animals have been tortured in every
possible way which human ingenuity could invent ;
plants have been dissected, the surface of the globe.
has been explored: air, earth, and water have from
time to time undergone analyzation :——all without
effect. The vital principle, until the present period,
has eluded every search.
In seeking after unknown causes, we not unfro
quently neglect to take notice of the most simple facts
which daily present themselves to our observation.
Dew, which is quietly descending to us, to cool
the vapour of the globe, has not yet been suﬂici
ently investigated.* There are some seasons of the
° Count Rumford says, “The excessive cold which is known to
reign, in all seasons, on the tops of very high mountains, and in the
higher regions of the atmosphere, and the frosts at night, which so
frequently take place on the surface of the plains below, in very clear
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 160
year during which life would be insupportable
without these most refreshing heavenly drops. It
is well known how much dew contributes to the
growth of plants: who has not noticed that during
the greatest heat of summer, when dew falls most
abundantly,“r and rain frequently descends in tor
and still weather, in spring and autumn, seem to indicate thatfrigoriﬁc
rays arrive continually at the surface of the earth from every part of
the heavens.“ “ May it not be by the action of these (frigoriﬁc) rays,
that our planet is cooled continually, and enabled to preserve the
same mean temperature for ages, notwithstanding the immense
quantities of heat that are generated at its surface, by the continual
action of the solar rays ?“—Ibid.
' Judges, vi. 38. “ And it was so,for he rose up early on the mar
row, and thrust theﬂeece together, and wrung the dew out of theﬂeece, a
b010, Jltu of water." “ it may seem a little improbable to us who
inhabit those northern climates, where the dcws arc inconsidcrnblc,
how Gideon‘s ﬂeece, in one night, should contract such a quantity,
that when he came towring it, a bowl full of water was produced.
lrwin, in his voyage up the Red Sea, when on the Arabian shores,
say s, ‘ Diﬂicult as we ﬁnd it to keep ourselves cool in the day-time,
it is no easy matter to defend our bodies from the damps of the night,
when the wind is loaded by the heaviest dews that ever fell; we lit
exposed to the whole weight of the dews, and the cloaks in which we
wrap ourselves, are as wet in the morning as if they had been immersed
in the sea.‘ P. 87.“ See Burrlcr'l Oriental Cuslomc—“Dcws are hea
viest in December and January, before the fogs set in. They become
perceptible about eight or nine o‘clock in the evening, at a time when
the atmosphere is perfectly serene and clear. On the Coromandel
must, we are not so much afraid of exposing ourselves to them as
they seem to be in other parts of the world. Many Europeans, and
almost all the natives, sleep during the night in the open air, without
the least injury to their health.“ Heync‘s Tracts on India.-—“ Dew,
in agreement with the immediate cause which has been assigned by
me for its production, can neverbe formed, in temperate climates, upon
the naked parts of a living and healthy human body; since their heat
is never less at night, in such climates, than that of the air. I have,
in tact. never perceived dew on any naked part of my own body,
170 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
rents, that not only is vegetation most rapid in its
growthﬂ‘ but animals and worms of various kinds,
and insects of every description are generated?
Dew, or rain, however, has never yet been con
sidered the primary cause of animal and vege
table organizationsl- From what I can colleu
though my attention has been much occupied, for the last three years,
with every thing relative to this ﬂuid, and though I have been, during
the same period, much exposed to the open airat night. On the other
hand, in very hot countries, the uncovered parts of a human body
may sometimes, from being considerably colder than the air, condense
the watery vapour of the atmosphere, and hence be covered with a
real dew, even in the day-time."—1)r. Wells.
' Job, xxix. 19, “The dew lay all night upon my hrunch.“—“ it is
well known that in the hot eastern countries, where it rarely runs
during the sumth months, the copious dews which fall there during
the night, contribute greatly to the nourishment of vegetables in
general. ‘ This dew,“ says Hasselquist, speaking of the excessinly
hot weather in Egypt, ‘ is particularly serviceable to the trees. which
would otherwise never be able to resist this heat; but with this assist
ance they thrive well and blossom, and ripen their fruit."' Travels,
p. 455.—“Egypt,“ says M. Savary, “would he uninhabitahlc, did
not the nocturnal dews restore life to vegetables. These dews are so
copious, especially in summer, that the earth is deeply soaked with
them, so that in the morning one would imagine that rain had fallen
during the night. This is the reason why the Scripture promise-s the
Israelites, who inhabited a climate pretty similar to that of Egypt.
the dew qfhtaven, (see Gen. xxvii. 39,) as a signal favour.“
1' “ The inhabitants of Lower Egypt, where the overﬂowing ofthe
Nile covered a sandy desert with vegetation and life, might easily adopt
the notion that water, in different modiﬁcations, produced all the
varieties of inanimate and organized matter; and thus this dogma
characterizes the earliest school of Greece." Davy. — Thales,
Anaxagoras, Anaximander, and Archelaus believed that living
creatures were ﬁrst generated from humidity. Stanley—Pliny, also,
was of this opinion, for he writes thus, “ The waters bring forth more
store of living creatures, and the same greater than the land. The
. __. — r_.__ ..- w
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 17]
from Dr. Wells and other authors, I feel convinced
that dew does not belong to our globe, the earth,
but that it comes directly from the sun to us, and
cause whereof is evident, even the excessive abundance of moisture.
I' may truly be said, according to the vulgar opinion, that whatso
ever is engendered and bred in any part of the world besides, is to be
found in the sea: and many more things in it which no where else
are to be seen.“ Sir Isaac Newton says, “ that all birds, beasts, ﬁshes,
insects, trees, and plants, grow and increase out of water, and aqueous
and saline tinctures; and on puriﬁcation all of them revert into
water, or an aqueous liquor again." Also in treating of comets, he
says, “ They seem necessarily requisite, from whose condensed exha~
lations and vapours, all that moisture which is consumed in vegeta
tions and putrefaction, and turned into dry earth, may by degrees be
continually resupplicd and recruited; for all vegetables do entirely
grow and increase from liquors; and then, as to their greatest part,
do turn by putrefaction into dry earth, and a slime perpetually is
precipitated to the bottom of putrefying liquors. From hence the
quantity. or bulk of dry earth, must continually increase, and the
liquors, or moisture of our globe, continually decrease, and at last be
quite eiaporated and lost, if they had not as continual a supply from
some part or other of the universe." vull’s Hmbmidry.-—“ It hath been
obwrt ed by the ancients, that there is a worm that breedeth in old snow,
of a reddish colour, and dull of motion; which would show that snow
bath in its secret warmth,e|se itcould hardly vivify.“ Bucun.—~“ Worms
are found in snow commonly like earthworms, and therefore it is not
unlike that it may likewise put forth plants.“ 1bid.--'l'here are many
who w ith Aristotle will have the generation of eels to be spontaneous
or equivocal, and will not allow them the distinction of sex, from the
ditﬁculty how eels should come to be in any pool, pond, moat, or
ditch, in which never any were put." Philor. Tunic—In Africa, par
ticularly in the neighbourhood of the Egyptian pyramids, the heat is
so intense, and the sand appears so parched and burnt, that it seems
impossible for either plant or animal to ﬁnd sustenance, and yet
Hasselquist found both here, viz., the condrillajuncea, a small species
at Ham], and lion ants innumerable. Scheuchzer and Pallas both
ulmcrvcd plants and animals in sulphureous springs. Forskal, in
Arabia, Barrow, at the ('apc of Good Hope, and Hooker. in lceland,
fouml dim-rent species of conform and nlva growing in boiling
172 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
III
is always accompanied in its descent with black
specks, similar in appearance to soot or ﬂakes of
charcoal; these black ﬂakes and specks, during the
severity of our winter, become, with the dew and
rain, crystallized, and fall to our earth as snowf‘
Thus it will be seen that dew, when dclwsltvd
upon our earth, is not a simple but a triple substance,
viz., carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Who has not
experienced the unpleasant sensation caused by snow
after it has lain on the ground for a day or two? ,
It no longer retains that beautiful and primitive
whiteness which it had on its ﬁrst descent to the
earth: on the contrary, it becomes dirty and spotted,
dark, cold, and comfortless, and uneven on its sur
face. This aspect of snow is not conﬁned to towns
or their vicinity, where it might be conjectured to
arise from smoke and dust descending from our
atmosphere: no, snow presents the same appear
ance on barren heaths, on mountain tops, or the
wildest plains.
Dew is the cause not only of rain but thunder,
springs. The most remarkable account of vegetation at a very high
temperature is mentioned in Staunton's account of Lord Mawartncys
embassy to China. They found, at the island of Amsterdam, a spring.
the mud of which, hotter than boiling water, gave birth to a species
of Marchuntia. 'l‘he turbo thermalis, a shell-ﬁsh indigenous in the
Adriatic, is found also in the thermal springs of Abano, at a tempe
rature of 120 degrees."—- Dr. Graves's Introductory chlurr.
' Anaxagoras maintained, “that snow is not white, but black;
nor did it seem white to him, because he knew the water, whereof it is
rongcaled, to be black."—Slunlr_y's Lives qflhe Philosophers.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. ‘ 173
lightning, and storms of every description. Dew,
diurnally descending from the sun towards the
surface of our globe in the form of water containing
specks of charcoal, not only causes pressure con
tinually upon our atmosphere, retarding its pro
gressive ascent and rareﬁcation, but the vapour
forming our atmosphere being thus condensed,
impedes, in its turn, the dew descending. Thus,
then, are these elements always at war, the one
body pressing downwards, the other forcing its
way upwards: so that pressure produces electricity
and causes thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain.
After much rain we generally ﬁnd a fresh variety
and increase of the insect tribe,"" blight in the vege—
table creation, and epidemics of every description
" “ From the warm ferment
Of earth‘s putreseent, by the clouds bedew‘d,
'l‘he vermin nations rise, with son] replete,
Thus spreading sense, where sense was none before.“
Lucretius.
According to Buﬂ'on, “ all matter swarms with organic germs or
molecules, which serve for the nutrith of organized bodies, till
they acquire a state of maturity, and augmentation ceases, and for
their seminal stores afterwards. But independently of seminal secre
tion, he contends that when large quantities of these proliﬁc germs
are collected in any part of an animal body, wherever such germs are
compelled to remain together, they create certain orders of living
beings, which have always been regarded as real animals. The tzenia,
the .israrides, all the worms found in the veins, in the liver, in wounds,
in pus, and most of those discovered in putrid ﬂesh, have, according
to this system, no other origin. The eels in paste and vinegar, the
tadpoles in the male semen, and all the pretended microscopic animals,
are only ditl'erent forms assumed, according to circumstances, by this
174 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE.
in the animal kingdom, particularly amongst the
human race.
active matter, which has a perpetual tendency to organization.“
Notes on Lucretius—“Of life,“ Mr. Kirby observes, that “sometim-s
also, like heat, as in the seed of the vegetable and egg of the animal, It
is latent, not manifesting itself by development till it is submitted to
the action of impouderable ﬂuids, conveyed by moisture or incuba
tion." That ﬂuidity is life in an active state, and that it is indeed .t
“ radiant principle,“ must be amply shown in this work; and it is .‘f
importance that we should recall to our remembrance the scriptuml
passage in which the Almighty is represented as declaring to Moses.
“ the blood is the life of all ﬂesh, the blood of it is for the life thenoi."
Lev. xvii. 5-14.—Swammerdam, who relates a very memomble instance
of the raining of blood which happened at the Hague in the year [670,
tells us, “ that one morning the whole town was in an uproar on
ﬁnding their lakes and ditches full of blood, as they thought. and,
having been certainly full of water the night before, they agreed it
must have rained blood in the night; but a certain physician went
down to one of the canals. and taking home a quantity of this blood
colourcd water, he examined it by the microscope, and found that
the water was water still, and had not at all changed its colour; but
that it was full of prodigious swarms of small red animals, all alive,
and very nimble in their motions, whose colour and prodigious number
gave a red tinge to the whole body of the water they lived in. on a
less accurate inspection. The certainty that this was the casedid not,
however, persuade the Hollandcrs to part with the miracle : they
prudently concluded that the sudden appearance of such a number of
animals was as great a prodigy as the raining of blood would have
been ; and are assured to this day that the portent foretold the scene
of war and destruction which Louis XIV. aﬁerwards brought into
that country, which had before enjoyed forty years of uninterrupmi
peace.“-" The animals which thus colour the water of lakes and PODtl:
are the pulices arborescentes of Swalnmerdam, or the water-thus with
branched horns. These creatures are of a reddish-yellow or flame
colour: they live about the sides of ditches, under weeds, and among:
the mud ; and are therefore the less visible, except at a certain time.
which is in the end or beginning of June: it is at this time that these,
little animals leave their recesses to ﬂoat loose about the Water. to
meet for the propagation of their species, and by that means becom
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 175
These contending elements-are the cause of all
the variations of our earth’s temperature. This
v:sihle in the colour they give the water. This is visible, more or
less, in one part or other of almost all standing waters at this season;
and it is always at this season that the bloody waters have alarmed
the ignorant.“ Envy. Britmmica.—“ The red snow, discovered in
llaﬂin‘s Bay, on the l7th of August, 1818, during the Northern
lisp edition, under the command of Captain Ross, was found to owe
its colour to minute fungi or microscopic mushrooms, which vegetate
on the surface of snow as their natural abode." Dr. Roget. See
I’hil. Tram. for 1820, p. “ii—Among the plagues which preceded
the departure of the Israelites from Egypt, is commemorated the
turning of the waters into blood, by which the ﬁshes died, and the
rivers became putrid, so that no man could drink them. This was
followed by swarms of frogs, of ﬂies, and a. grievous plague among
the cattle, as well as the human race. After this, there was the
pl igneofhail, and thenthat ofthe locusts,which eat up all the fruit and
herbs left untouched by the hail, and ﬁnally a heavy darkness came over
the land. Thus were connected together, by the record ofSeripture,the
phenomena which we are new recording from profane history, and which
M'Pl‘n to have been doubted, and looked upon as fabulous in these our
enliglitﬁnﬂl times. “The ruining of frogs is a thing notless Wonderful,
in the accounts ofauthors who love the marvellous, than those of blood
or stones ; and this is supposed to happen so often, that there are mul
titudes who pretend to have been eye-witnesses of it. These ruins
of frogs always happen after very dry seasons, and are much more
frequent in the hotter countries than in the cold ones. In Italy they
are very frequent; and it is not uncommon to see the streets of Rome
n arming both with young frogs and toads in an instant, in a shower of
rain, they hopping every u here between the people's legs as they walk,
though there was not thc least appearance of them before. It is
beyond a doubt, that the frogs which make their appearance at this
time, Wtrt‘ hatched and in being long before; but that the dry season:
had lﬂjlll‘ld them, and kept them sluggisth in holes or cover“; and that
a“ g“. min does is the enlivening t/u-m, giving them nrw spirits, and
. Ill/mg Nu m forth In seek new habitation, and enjoy lllc element the]; were
,lmjnpd in gmzt part to live in. 'l‘heophrastus. the greatest of all
the naturalists ofantiquity, has afﬁrmed the same thing.“
5 Ency. Brilannica.
176 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
primary or gravitating elementary body, which
is pure oxygen, by constantly pressing on our
atmosphere, changes the current of our ascending
hydrogen from its natural perpendicular to the
horizontal line. Thus we witness, before the coming
on of storms, the clouds gathering and ﬂying to and
fro in every direction, frequently hurling deﬁance to
all beneath them with a gloom and grandeur increas
ing with the increasing weight of the descending
force, until by pressure and friction a violent elec
trical concussion takes place, by which the ascending
elementary body, hydrogen, comes directly into
contact with the descending oxygen; the spark of
heat (or vitality) is given oifz" evaporation and
condensation is the consequence: the imprisoned
hydrogen escapes and ascends to a higher region,
while the oxygen and carbon, being the heaviest
bodies, are precipitated, with a certain proportion
of hydrogen, in the form of water-.1
' “ The formation of dew, indeed, not only does not produce cold,
but, like every other precipitation of water from the atmosphere, pro
duces heat. Although the temperature of the air was 30°, the boar
frost on trees rapidly decreased, the solid matter of the trees inter
cepting radiant heat, which had penetrated through the fog from the
sun, and converting it into heat of temperature."-Dr. Wells.
1' All ﬂame, vapour, and steam rise upwards, nor can any force
or pressure make the atmosphere of any body gravitate or descend,
until the elastic principle of that body becomes changed. This can
never be effected but by contact. From contact combustion is pro
duced, and the electric spark elicited. 'l‘hus are solids converted intr
tluids, and ﬂuids into vapour or steam; steam again into water, and
thus is matter returned again to the elementary body, the earth.
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 177
These elementary bodies always accompany each
other, the carbon preserving the water in the most
perfect state ofpurity, whether it be deposited to us
in gentle dew-drops, or showered down in rain, as
our varied seasons may require. But with the
combustion that is constantly taking place in our
atmosphere either silently or otherwise, new forma
tions of matter are generated; amongst these new
forms of matter, we ﬁnd sulphur the most conspicu
ous, it being the constant attendant upon combus
tion. Thus sulphur becoming a component part of
our atmosphere must, when united with the carbon
and salt precipitated from the hydrogen, form
azote.‘ Our atmosphere is said to be a compound
‘- Invert a glass on a garden-bed when dew is forming, and you will
ﬁnd its inside covered with moisture in the morning. I have taken
a portion of mould from a small spot ofsuch a bed; have exposed the
former in a thin vessel of horn to the air in a dewy night; have
covered the latter with an inverted glass, and, on examination in the
morning, I have found the portion of soil exposed to the air and dew
drier than that which was covered, notwithstanding the inside of the
glass was cepiously bedewed. Reﬂecting on these and some other
circumstances, I am almost induced to think, that, if the ground ever
gains moisture by dew, it loses much more than it gains by the insen
sible perspiration which is always taking place from its warmer
surface."—-Jubn Davy, M.D., F. [1.5.
‘ Hosmi, xiv. 5, “ I will be as tbc'dew unto Israel." “ The earth,
While it supplies the various plants which grow upon it, is supplied
for that purpose very much by the dew, which is full of oleaginous
particles. ‘ The down seem to be the richest present the stmophere
gives to the earth; having, when putreﬁed in a vessel, a black sediment
like mad at the bottom; this seems to cause the darkish colour to the
upper part of the ground; and the sulphur whirh_is found in the dew
may be the chief ingredient of the cement of the earth, sulphur being
N
178 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
of oxygen and azote. The question yet unsolved is
from what sources do these bodies ﬁrst originate P
very glutinous, as nitre is dissolvent. Dew has both these.“ Tull's
Husbandry, c. vi. A lively comment this upon the promise in this
passage, ‘ I will be as the dew unto lsrael.‘ “ Burder‘s Oriental
Customs—5‘ Substances of a very different kind from the usual dew
are said to have sometimes fallen from the atmosphere. In the Phil.
Trans. we are told that, in the year 1695, there fell iin Ireland, in the
provinces of Leinster and Munster, for a considerable part of the
winter and spring, a fatty substance resembling butter, instead of the
common dew. It was of a clammy texture and dark-yellow colour;
and was, from its great resemblance, generally called dew-butter by
the country people. it alWays fell in the night, and chieﬂy in the
moorish low grounds, and was found hanging on the tops of the
grass, and on the thatch of the houses of the poor people. It was
seldom observed to fall twice in the same place; and usually, when
ever it fell, it lay a fortnight upon the ground before it changed
colour; but after that it gradually dried up and became black. The
cattle fed in the ﬁelds where it lay, as well as in others, and received
no harm by it. It fell in pieces of the bigness of one‘s ﬁnger-end,
but they were dispersed scatteringly about, and it had an offensive
smell, like a churchyard. There were in the same places very stinking
fogs during the winter, and some people supposed this no other than
asediment from the fog. It would not keep very long, but never
bred worms.-—May-dew whitcns linen and wax. There is a spirit
drawn from May-dew, which has wonderful virtues attributed to it.
The method of collecting and preparing it, is described by Hannr-man,
physician at Kiel. It is to be gathered in clean linen cloths; (“posed
to the sun in close vials, then distilled, and the spirit thrown upon
the caput mortuum: this is to be repeated till the earth unite with the
spirit, and become liquid, which happens about the seventh or eighth
cohabation or distillation. By such means you gain a very red odo
riferous spirit. It is apparently from the preparation of this dew,
that the brothers of the Rosy Cross took their denomination.“ Enry.
Britannica.—“ The dew of autumn is converted into a white frost. Out
of dew putreﬁed by the sun, arise divers insects, which change npace
from one species into another; what remains is converted into a tin-
white salt, with angles like those of saltpetre, after a number of eva
porations, calcinations, and ﬁxations." Ibul.
3
0R, answcoov or MAN. 179
The vegetable kingdom is supposed to give off
oxygen and take up carbon. This cannot be the
case, as the vegetable kingdom will, on further
examination, he found to consist of the same mate
rials as the animal, and therefore must be giving
off carbonic acid gas, although of a ﬁner and more
pure kindthan that given ad fromthe animal kingdom.
Thus we all know that our atmosphere is more pure
in an open ﬁne cultivated country, than in one that
is uncultivated, or in or near a large populous city,
where there are ﬁres, and where animal eﬁiuvia are
given off in large quantities. Oxygen comes
directly from the sun to us. It is the seed of all
life, and is ever accompanied by its antagonist,
carbon: for carbon, though it preserves the purity
of water and air, and is of itself incorruptible, proves
destructive to the ﬁnest ﬂowers of our gardens.
“'alk into the orchard or ﬂower garden on the day
following a heavy rain, and then you will observe
the purest blossoms of your garden or orchard gone,
either dying or become dead. If your fruit is
already set ’tis well, but even if this should be the
case, how many vermin-brood of insect eggs are
deposited, waiting but the noon-day sun to awaken
them into active life, to suck the juices from your
choicest fruit—to them a planet and a world ! *
' “ Every insect of each dilTerent kind,
In its own egg, cheer'd by the solar rays,
Organs involv'd and latent life dllplays."—B/urknm'r‘.
N2
180 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Hydrogen is the base of all alkalies: oxygen, the
base of all acids; carbon, the base of all bitters.
Hydrogen is the simple, pure, and most active
“ Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust!
Behold, the dew of the day-light is thy dew l“—-Tsaiah, vai. 19.
Mason Good, in a note to his translation of Lucretius, observes
upon this passage, “ a dew copious and revivifyingas the exhalation or
stream of light that pours forth at the dawn in every direction, and
awaken: the world from the dendneu of sleep.“--“ Spalanzani detected
many vegetable seeds, extremely diminutive in their form, the vitality
of which it is almost impossible to destroy either by heat or chemical
solvents. In like manner he discovered the eggs of many animalcules
conﬁned in vegetable seeds, still possessing a power of producing their
deﬁnite orders of insects, after such seeds had been exposed to the
most intense heat of burning coals, and even the blow pipe itself: and
although reduced to the most subtile powder, after having been hereby
converted into calces. Thus, too, many animals and vegetable have
an equally wonderful power of resuscitation after apparent destruction :
among the latter may be mentioned the nostoe and tremella, which
perpetually spring up after they have seemed to parish; and among
the former the chaos redivivum, the vorticella or wheel animal, the
sloth, and the tile eel, a new species discovered by Spalanzani in the
impalpable dust of bricks and tiles. In the case of this last insett, the
alternate process of death and resurrection was carried on with suc_
06", and with the same animnlcule, for no less than eleven times, by
keeping it dry and without sand, and afterwards moistening it with
water. Eggs and seeds, after a torpor of months, or even years, are
occasionally revived on being moistened with warm water; and in
like manner some snail-shells, in the cabinets of the curious, have re
vived on the same application, after having been kept in a dry state
for ten or twelve years." Mason Good; Note: on Lucretius.--“ The
larvae of the gad-ﬂy, or horse-bee, are destined to live in the stomach
of a horse. How shall the parent, is two-winng ﬂy, convey them
thither? By a mode truly extraordinary. Flying round the animal,
she curiously poises her body for an instant, while she glues a single
egg to one of the hairs of his skin, and repeats this process, until she
has ﬁxt in a similar way many hundred eggs. These, aftera few days,
on the application of the slightest moisture, attended by warmth _
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 181
element of life, consisting of liquid ﬂame, itself
elicited from combustion and friction. Oxygen is
the consolidation of the liquid hydrogen into me
tallic substance.’It Carbon is the cinder, or dust,
hatch into little grubs. Whenever, therefore, the horse chances to
lick any part of his body, to which they are attached, the moisture of
the tongue discloses one or more grubs, which, adhering to it by
means of the saliva, are conveyed into the mouth,and thence ﬁnd their
way into the stomach. But here a question occurs to you. It is but
a small portion of the horse's body which he can reach with his
tongue ; what, you ask, becomes of the eggs deposited on other parts?
I will tell you how the gad-ﬂy avoids this dilemna: and I will then
ask you, if she does not discover a provident forethought, a depth of
instinct, which almost casts into the shade the boasted reason of man.
She places her eggs only on those parts of the skin which the horse
is able to reach with his tongue; nay, she conﬁnes them almost ex
clusively to the knee, or the shoulder, whichhe is sure to lick. What
could the most reﬁned reason, the most precise adaptation of means
to an end do more 1'"
Kirby and Spence's Entomology. Vol. i., p. 339.
' Oxygen is the hydrogen gradually become cooled by change of
temperature. “ Dew, according to the theory of Dr. Wells, now gene
rally sdopted by philosophers, depends upon two principles,—the ra'
diation of heat, and the condensation of invisible vapour. Before dew
can be deposited on any substance, it must become colder than the
surrounding atmosphere. - It must have been long known that dew is
cold, for, as Dr. Wells states, both Cicero and Virgil apply to it the
epithet ‘ gelidus ;‘ and Herodotus, speaking of the crocodile, says that
in Egypt it passes the greater part of the day on land, but that it
passes the night in the waters of the Nile, they being warmer than
the natural atmosphere and the dew.“ Higgins's Earth.-“ The vapour of
the surrounding sir will be condensed upon the bodies whose tempe
rature is lower than that of the air itself. The deposition of dew de
pends upon the production of a lower temperature in the body he
dewml, than in the atmosphere which surrounds it. Now all the
bodies which ndiste more heat than is conveyed to them by the earth,
0'- anv gnbstanee with which they may be in contact, when thus low
ercd’ '3" covered by a condensed vapour,which we call dew." Higgins.
182 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
resulting from the union of the two former. These
three elementary bodies are always united: they
are all necessary to the existence of each other, and
can never be entirely separated; when, however,
these three materials come into close contact by
surrounding pressure on the atmosphere,* the
electric spark on liquid ﬂame escapes, and locomo—
tive animal life is generatcdri' In the aerial species
-“ The deposition of dew is always most abundant dur'rng calm and
cloudless nights, and in situations freely exposed to the atmosphere.
Whatever interferes in any way with the process of radiation as
might be expected, has a great effect on the deposition of dew. Hence
the radiation of heat, and consequently the deposition of dew, is not
only obviated by the slightest covering or shelter, as by thin matting
or even muslin; by the neighbourhood of buildings, and innumerable
other impediments near the earth's surface; but matters interposed
ata great distance from the earth’s surface have precisely the same
eﬁ'ect. Thus clouds effectually prevent the radiation of heat from the
earth‘s surface; so that cloudy nights are always warmer than those
which are clear, and, in conseqence, there is usually on such nights
little or no deposition of dew." Dr. ProuL—Dr. Wells remarks, “ up
on one serene and still night, I placed fresh parcels of wool upon
grass every hour, and by weighing each of them, aﬁerexposure for an
hour, found, that they had all attracted dcw.“—“ Several substances
exposed to the same dew, receive and charge themselves with it in a
very different manner; some more, others less, and some even not at
all. The drops seem to make a sort of choice of what bodies they shall
aﬁix themselves to ; glass and crystals are those to whit-i they adhere in
the most ready manner and in the largest quantity; hutmetals oflll kinds
never receive them at all, nor do the drops ever adhere to them."
Dr. Prout.
' Each of these elementary bodies has an atmosphere of its own
and also a general one surrounding the whole: all united, the three
simple elementary eggs become one whole animal.
1‘“ All animal and vegetable bodies are composed of three, or at
most, four elementary substances." Illr. Brande.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 183
of animal life, such as birds and insects of every de
scription, particularly ﬂies, the carbon and hydrogen
predominate. In the larger animals that move on
the solid body of the earth, the hydrogen and oxygen
prevail. In the lowest species of the creation, such
as burrow in the bowels of the earth, the carbon
and the oxygen must always predominate; for
however low and degraded the animal may be in
the scale of life, still oxygen must be the base, and
form the ﬁrst germ of terrestrial animal structure,
carbonic acid gas forming the ﬂuid atmosphere
surrounding every animal whether simple or com
pound in its mechanism. Animal life progresses in
the scale of creation by the increase and number of
animal bodies uniting together, giving to the ele
mentary properties of the whole greater solidity,
acidity, and elasticity. Thus living animals are
constantly shooting forth, radiating and ascending
one layer above another: ﬁrst, solid embryotic eggs;
secondly, these eggs giving off their ﬂuid as car
bonic acid; and thirdly, theiraeriform, untiltheyhave
ascended from the very centre of all the different
planets up to the surface of their atmosphere: a
separation then takes place, and so on until they
arrive at the body of the sun whence they have all
emanated. I
It is an error to suppose, as I have before stated,
that oxygen is produced from the vegetable king
184 THE DISCOVERY or was VITAL szvcrrm,
dom. The animals that live in the bowels of the
earth all throw up their carbonic acid gas to the
surface of this globe, where aboundary case or shell
is formed and a perfectly new structure of animals
created from the scum or very worst materials of
the old. The carbonic acid forcing its way up to
the surface, makes cracks and ﬁssures in the crust
of the earth, and thus opens a path for the descend
ing elementary body, oxygen, when the carbonic
acid gas becomes again puriﬁed and forms dew.
By this means vegetable life is generated all over
the surface of this planet. Vegetable life is but a
second or more perfect state towards animal per
fection. We have now one moving body, the earth,
enclosing in its bowels all the different varieties of
the lowest scale of animated life, all arranging them
selves according to the speciﬁc gravity of the ma
terials forming their base and superstructure.
First, solid, as iron ; secondly, ﬂuid, as water;
thirdly, aeriform, as carbon. Thus, while one gene
ration of animals is descending in the scale of crea
tion, another is ascending, forming a more perfect
and larger species of animals from the decompo
sition of the preceding race. Carbonic acid gas,
forcing its way to the circumference of the whole
globe, forms there a boundary or case containing
the simplest forms of living animalculte, of the very
worst and most degraded species. These animals.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 185
however, are destined to lay the foundation or
seed-bed of a higher and more perfect structure of
progressive creation. The oxygen ﬁltering down
in pearly dew-drops daily from the sun, puriﬁes and
crystallizes the carbonic acid, when an entire new
seed is generated at the surface of our globe, cover
ing the whole earth with the choicest productions
of animated nature, presenting all the varied colours
of the vegetable kingdom as now distributed over
the surface of this our planet. Thus, in the words
of the poet—
“To every form of being is assign‘d
An active principle: howe‘er removed
From sense and observation, it subsist!
In all things, in all natures, in the stars
Of azure heav'n, the uncnduring clouds,
In ﬂower and tree, and every pebhly stone
'l'hat paves the brooks. the stationary rocks,
The moving waters, and the invisible air.“
186 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
CHAP. V.
VEGETABLE LIFE.
“The Creator of the atmosphere must have been also the Creator
of plants and animals: we cannot for an instant believe the contrary.“
Whmell.
“ From 08‘ the boughs each morn
We brush melliﬂuous dews, and ﬁnd the ground
Cover‘d with pearly grain.“ .llls'llon.
“ IT is well known that, in all places where veng
tion has been established, the germs are so inter—
mingled with the soil that wherever the earth is
turned up, even from considerable depths, and
exposed to the air, plants are soon observed to
spring, as if they had been recently sown, in conse
quence of the germination of seeds which had
remained latent and inactive during the lapse of
perhaps many centuricsri" Islands formed by coral
* “ The comparison of dew-drops to pearls, or gems, is beautifule
delicate, and has seldom been forgotten by poets of any nation,
whenever they have had an opportunity of introducing it."
Mason Good.
1‘ “A few years ago, a house was built in Newcastle-on-Tyne. and
the earth which was dug out of the foundation was thrown on apiece
of ground in the front, intended for a garden. The following spring
a number of caper plants came up; for they were not common in that
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 187
reefs, which have arisen above the level of the sea,
become, in a short time, covered with verdure.
From the materials of the most sterile rock, and
part of the country, and their appearance therefore created a good
deal of surprise. Upon enquiry, it was found that some years before
this ground had been a public garden; it therefore appeared certain
that these seedshad remained dormant whilst buried deep in the earth,
and had sprung to life as soon as they were brought within the in—
ﬂuence of heat and light.
“These facts are sufﬁcient to prove that seeds do not lose their
vitality through a long period of time."
Jam": Glconiugs in Natural History.
“It is more than a century since it was observed that plants were
nourished by pure water and atmospheric air; that from these alone
they derived their extracts, their mucilage, their oils, their coal, their
acids, their alkalies. and aroma.“--Ency. Brit.
“ Plants that come up in any land ofs different kind from the sown
or planted crops, are weeds. That there are in nature any such things
as mutile: herb¢, the botanists deny, and justly too, according to their
meaning."—-Tull's Husbandry.
“I think nothing can be said more strongly to conﬁrm the truth of
this, than what is related by the authors quoted by Mr. Evelyn, (p. l7,
18, 19. of his Phil. Discourse quart/z,) to this effect, viz.
“ ‘Tske ofthe most barren earth you can ﬁnd, pulverize it well, and
expose it abroad for a year exeessivcly agitated, (that is, stirred often,)
it will become so fertile as to receive an exotic plant from the furthest
Indies, and to cause all vegetables to prosper in the most exalted
degree, and to bear their fruit as kindly with us as in their natural
climates.‘
“ ‘ This artiﬁcial dust,” he say 5, ‘will entertain plants which refuse
dung and other violent applications, and that it has a more nutritive
power than any artiﬁcial dungs or compost whatsoever ;‘ and further,
that, by this toil of pulverizing, ‘it is found that soil may be so
strangely altered from its former nature as to render the harsh and
most uucivil clay obsequious to the husbandman, and to bring forth
roots and plants which otherwise require the lightest and hollowest
mould.“--'l'ull's Husbandry.
“ We ﬁnd, therefore, that moisture, air, and a due temperature, are
l-Fibv THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
evenfrom the get recent cinders andlava of the vol
cano, natureprepares the way forvegetable existence.
The slightest crevice or inequality is sufﬁcient to
arrest the invisible germs that are always ﬂoating
in the air, and aﬁ'ords the means of sustenance to
diminutive races of lichens and mosses!" These
soon overspread the surface, and are covered in the
course of a few years, by successive tribes of plants
of gradually increasing size and strength, till at
length the island, or other favoured spot, is converted
into a natural and luxuriant garden, of which the
productions, rising from grasses to shrubs and
trees, present all the varieties of the fertile meadow,
the tangled thicket, and the widely spreading forest.
Even in the desert plains of the torrid zone, the eye
of the traveller is often refreshed by the appearance
of a few hardy plants, which ﬁnd sufﬁcient materials
certain requisites for vegetation; and you ﬁnd that they should be
present in due proportion, and should co-operate for the healthy growth
of the vegetable.“—-Proﬁssor Brande on Vrgetable Chemistry.
* “The slimy matter often seen on rocks and stones, on hard gravel
walks, and on damp walls and cellars, or on the glass of windows,
garden-pots, and so forth, and which is often so minute as to be lost
to ordinary vision, consists of curious and most admirable vegetable
structures. All the green pulverulent coating seen on old trees and
palings is also found, by microscopic observations, to be composed of
an inﬁnite number ofsmall plants, of an exceedingly primitive forma
tion. The slimy masses known as Will 0’ the wisps, 0r Nostocs, are
instances of other allied species, some of which are called by the com
mon people ‘ ﬂowers of heaven.’ “-—Professor Burnett.
" Professor Burnett observes that the phenomenon of red snow seems
L
I
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 189
for their growth in these arid regions; and, in the
realms of perpetual snow which surround the poles,
the navigator is occasionally startled at the prospect
of ﬁelds of a scarlet hue, the result of a wide
expanse of microscopic vegetation.”*—-—Dr. Roget.
in some cases to depend upon the sudden appearance of a very minute
plant, which the microscope declares to consist of small cells ﬁlled
with a red ﬂuid, and which is referred to a genus named, from its
very simple structure, ‘Proto-corcus.‘
“Palmella cruenta, or gory dew, is common in many places: I
found it abundantly during 1831 and 1832, at Oxford; and it is fre~
quemly observed in damp situations, forming ‘broad indeterminate
patches ofa. deep rich purple, with a shining surface, as if blood or
red wine had been poured over the stone or ground.‘ ‘ During dry
weather it contracts, grows dull, and disappears; but after rain
spreads anew, resumes its sanguine colour, and becomes conspicuous
even to vulgar gaze.“ But not only have we at times showers of the
sO-called red or bloody snow, rain, &c., and gory dew, ice, and so
forth, produced as above explained, but occasionally these storms
and dews are found of different colours; as green, blue, and yellow.
These analogous phenomena are owing to plants not very different in
their nature: the blue to Byssus cobaltigium, the green to Palmella
bolryoida, the yellow to Lrpra (mule/Gris or chlorine, and other
tints to other plants. ‘Both snow and iCe were seen stained with
red, green, and blue, by the late expedition, under Baron Wrangel,
to the Frozen Ocean, (N. L. S. ;) and Humboldt says that red hail
has been seen to fall at Paramo de Guanacos, on the road from
Bogota to Popayan.—Agardh, in an interesting memoir, mentions
several of these supposed pretsrnatural Occurrences, that in diﬂ‘e
rent ages have been recorded, some of which have been looked
upon as direct signs of the anger of the Deity. The learned Pro
fessor observes, that red snow is very common in all the Alpine
districts of Europe; where it is most probably of the same nature as
that brought from the North Pole by Captain Ross. Saussure saw it
in abundance on Mount Brevcrn, in Su'itzerl.-.n(l, frequently among
the Alps, and elsewhere; Ramond found it on the Pyrenees, and
Sommerfahlt in Norway. In March, 1808. the whole country about
190 THE mscovmw OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Vegetable life exists in three distinct successive
states. The ﬁrst of these is the solid or oval, as
the seed; the second, the ﬂuid or fcetal, which is
the expansion of the former seed into a bulb or root;
the third, the aeriforme or locomotiveﬁ" is the
full formed and perfect plant.
Cadore, Belluno, and Feltri was in a single night covered to the
depth of twenty centimetres with a rose-coloured snow; at the same
time a similar shower was witnessed on the mountains of Veltr'iill,
Breseia, Krain, and the Tyrol. A similar one occurred at Tolmer-zo,
in the 'l‘riaul, between the 5th and 6th of March, 1803; and, on the
16th of April, red snow fell on the mountains of Tonal, in ltaly.
But the most remarkable red-snow shower on record was that which
fell on the night between the 14th and 15th of March, 1823, in
Calabria Abruzzo, in Tuscany, and at Bologna; consequently, along
the whole chain of the Apennines. Captain Ross states, that the
mountains he found covered with red snow are about eight English
miles in length, and six hundred feet in height. The red snow he
also observed to penetrate, in some places, to sdepth often or twelve
feet; and, he says, it seemed to have existed long in the same state.
The above species “are always found in situations in which they
are exposed to the intense action of light; such as vast plains of
snow, or masses ofglittering limestone; whence it is inferred that the
colour of the red snow is attributable to the action of light, modiﬁed.
in some mysterious manner, by the nature of the body on which it
strikes: in conﬁrmation of which hypothesis, it is remarked that,
when Lepraria kermesina is found under the stems of trees, stones, or
in the crevices of rocks, where light can scarcely gain admittance, its
colour gradually passes from red to green. The chief difﬁculty in
the way of this explanation of its nature is in the statements of so
many observers, that the red snow falls from the air."-—Prof. Burnett.
" “ Perhaps one of the most extraordinary phenomena connected
with vegetable life is the tendency of plants to follow light, which
seems so necessary to their health, and even to their existence: this
makes them display what Blumenbach calls real motion. in the
Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences at Boston,
there is an excellent example of this tendency described. in ill"
OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 191
The ﬁrst or crystalline state is the seed of the
future plant."‘ The seed of every plant is pure
spring, a potato was left in a cellar where some roots had been kept
during the winter, and which had only a small aperture for the
admission oflight at the upper end of one of its sides. The potato,
which lay in the opposite comer of the aperture, shot out a runner,
which ﬁrst ran twenty feet along the ground, then crept up along the
wall, and so through the opening by which light was admitted.
Many plants (commonduckweed, for exzunple,) are not ﬁrmly attached
to the ground by their roots, but can change their situations at
certain seasons of the year, sinking at one time to the bottom, and at
others coming to the surface of the water.“
Chambers‘s Edinburgh Journal.
' “ Several large and verycurious groups of plants, which are allied
to the Zoocarpes, but distinctly vegetables, have been collectively
denominated FLAGS or ALGAE. Their English name has reference to
the ﬂagging habits of a. large proportion; as, for example, the sea
weeds, which are usually ﬁxed to rocks or stones, and ﬂag—i. e.
droop or ﬂoat, :wmrding as the water quits them or bears them up.
Alga, the technical synonyme, is said to be derived ab algnre, coldness;
as if the nominator had supposed that some of these productions,
which are chieﬂy aquatic, were formed by the congclation qfﬁlms or
drop: of water; towhich, indeed, many bear no slight resemblance.
To this ancient hypothesis there seems to be allusion in the names of
several: 6. g. Ulva (ab uligine,) signiﬁes ooziness or moisture, as our
English word Laser, from [over (a lavo), to wash, literally means
froth, scum, or lather; whence, perhaps, liver or liver. Again, Holy
menia, if literally translated, gives a pellicle of sea-water or sea
membrane. Thus, also, Achnanthu is sea-froth; Ant/iodine, froth
ilower; and Alrylmidium, the foam of the sea.“ . . . “ Thus, our
own mildew is but a contraction of soft or mild dew. referring to the
delicate texture of the minute plants of which mildew consists, and of
v. hich each spot is as it were a forest.
“ In the ocean, in rivers, and especially in stagnant water, as well
as in many damp situations on shore, myriads of minute animals and
plants exist, which for ages were utterly unknown; or, if noticed, were
taken for the foam of the waves, or the cxuviae of the bodies amongst
which they abound. So minute are some of these inﬁnitesimals of
viulity, that, in a drop of water, it is said, there might be suspended
192 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCI
diamond". In this primitive condition, life is
or inactive: the seed maybe preserved so for
centuries (if kept from moisture), and after
will yet become organized. “Mr. Ray V
adduces, as a proof of the length of time d
which the vital principle of vegetables may b4
served, the fact that a bulbous root found i
hand of an Egyptian mummy, where it had
ﬁve millions; and eight hundred millions, that is, almost as I
the entire human population of this globe, might, if collected,
tained in the space of one cubic inch. Yet, small as are these
their structure is hyno means so simple as is their bulk reduc
Ehrenberg describes those species which, from their ultimate
minuteness and resemblance to ﬁne dust, have been called
atomul, and pulvist‘ulus, to possess each from four to six, and
atom many stomachs; and, furthermore, in the allied genera,
counted no fewer than from one to two hundred stomachs: i.
one to two hundred internal sacs, or digesting pouches, intt
coioured ﬂuids have been seen to pass."
Professor Burnett's Outlines of
“ “ Whence did the vegetable tribes originally derive the ca
which their solid parts are principally composed? Carbon eitl
viously existed in nature, or trees and plants had the power 0
ing it from more simple elements. If carbon be a compound sul
of which hydrogen is a constituent part, it may be formed
process of vegetation, or it may exist also in the mineral ki
independent of organic productions.“~—Bakavell‘s Geology.
“ in many kinds of seeds, including all the grasses, there 1
substance, which, before the seed is fully ripe, resembles the s
an egg surrounding or partly surrounding the embryo. On 1
arriving at maturity, it becomes more indurated, and in the
is farinsceous, forming the hull: of the seed. In some plants
a woody consistence; this is commonly termed the albumen,
said to afford the embryo nutriment; but, if the date-stone
albumen, as is generally supposed, it seems rather against tl
nion. as it is as hard uﬁinl."
Strm/J‘: Physiological and Systematic
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 193
2000 years, germinated, and, when put in the
ground, grew vigorously;“ and, to my own know
ledge, a bag of beans, found some years since in the
ruins of Herculaneum, being sown in a garden at
Chelsea, took root, and produced as usual.“
The second, or Foetal Life, is the organization of
the former seed into a root, prior to its appearance
above ground.
When a seed is planted in the ground, its envelope
or wrapper of charcoal imbibes moisture from the
surrounding particles of earth, and thus the wrapper
soon becomes dissolved in the general mass. The
‘ ‘.‘ The absence of liquid matter in the composition of seeds ren
ders them comparatively insensible to heat and cold, so that they
may be carried without detriment through climates where the plants
themselves would instantly perish.”—-I/_yell‘s Geology
“ The seeds of most sorts of weeds are so hardy as to be sound and
uncorrupt for many years, or perhaps ages, in the earth; and are not
killed until they begin to grow or sprout, which very few of them do
unless the land be ploughed, and then enough of them will ripen
amongst the sown crop, to propagate and continue their species, by
shedding their offspring on the ground, (for it is observed they are
generally ripe before the corn,) and the seeds of these do the same
in the next sown crop; and thus perpetuate their savage wicked
brood*- from generation to generation.
“ Besides, their seeds never all come up in one year. unless the land
be very often ploughed, for they must have their exact depth and
degrees of moisture and heat to make them grow; and, as such as
have not, these will lie in the ground, and retain their vegetative
virt us for ages; and the common usual ploughings not being suﬂicient
to make them all or the greatest part grow, almost every crop that
ripen: increases the stock of seed, until it make a considerable part of
the staple of such land as is sown, without good tillage and fallow"
ing_"_-Tull‘s Husbandry.
Q The French call them In hrrbes sum-ages and les méchantes herbs-r.
0
194 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRXNC
seed within is pure crystalline diamond enc
iron, and these materials composing the se
never be separatedordissolved but by contact.
solid seeds, then, remaining after all their (
and visible form has undergone dissolution, b(
nucleus of attraction. The matter attracted
logous to that which attracts (the seed), to
verges to it as a central point: we all knoi
will only grow in such soils as are congenial
nature: the attraction continues, and the p
accumulate by this means till pressure or fri
the result; and heat being given off from the
the surrounding particles of earthy matter a:
rated, and structural ﬁbres shoot forth f1
midst of this gaseous ﬂuid.* The cryst
" “The only remaining part of the plant which we have
the seed; and, with regard to it, you will ﬁnd that it consi:
parts. The bulk of the seed is made up ofa substance inten
nourishment of the young plant, and is called colylcdon; ii
dies away as vegetation goes on,and you cannot take abeth
by way ofillnstration, than the common garden bean. If
the external membrane, you will separate it easily into
and if you examine that part called the eye of the bean, y
that there is a small projecting substance which developei
ﬁrst, when the bean grows; it then becomes the root, a
called the radicle; whilst between it and the cotyledon is
the young plant, called the plumula; this is the part whiel:
produces the stem and leaves. These parts are all 00‘
investing membrane. We have some plants containing fol
more, cotylr-ila; some only one, as is the case with the con
and these are called Inono-rotyledous plants; those mm
dicotyledons; those containing three, tricodyledous, and l
Brande on Vegetable Chemistry.--“ When you sow a seed,
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 195
having thus burst its iron bond, is converted into an
elastic tube or bulb of gelatinous ﬂuid matter. In
this manner the foetal life commences. Imbibition
is but a multiplication of the force of attraction.
All ﬂuids are now drawn by suction into the radix,
or heart of the plant: thus is the heart nourished
and empowered to throw off new layers of matter
uncongenial to itself. The root absorbs, expands,
and becomes elastic, throwing off all offensive and
superﬂuous matter. By the law ofrepulsion, all ﬂuids
under favorable circumstances, it begins to swell, and the consequence
is that it bursts its external membrane; the radicle begins to shoot
downwards, and to throw out little ramiﬁcations. which ultimately
become the perfect root; and the plumula, rising upwards, expands
itself, throws out a stem, and ultimately ﬂowers. The cotyleda, which
appear to have been, during this process, inert, rise up as tv 0 leaves,
in hich are very important for the protection of the young plant. You
ﬁnd, during this time, that there is a number of vessels shooting
throth the cotyleda, which are connected with the radicle. and plu
lnu'i at this junction; these are the absorlwnt vessels, which, in the
young plant, take up the nutritious matter from the soil; and, when
the plant has put forth its leaves, the cotylella become useless, as the
young; plant is then capable of abstracting suﬂicieut nutriment from
the atmosphere, and which, with what is abstracted from the soil, is
suflicient for the future existence of the plant. The cotyleda then
rot away. These changes take place when the seed is exposed to
favorable circumstances. A due temperature is necessary for the pro
duction of these phenomena; a few seeds, it is true, will germinate,
wider firqfreezing point, but, generally speaking, not; a due degree of
temperature is therefore necessary. The temperature most favorable
for germination is that between 40" and 80° of Fahrenheit, and,
Within the range of these temperatures, it genemlly takes place.
Moisture is abiululely requisite; so much so, that without it the seed
Will remain inactive." Prof. Brande.
02
196 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
have the power of forming for themselves a mem
brane or web to protect their vitality, and in this
membrane is seated the life of the foetal plant,
which, in the manner described, progresses to the
complete structure of its machine. The period of
the faital life of plants is always limited: there is a
precise time for the plants making their appearance
above ground. When they are retarded bymuch rain
or great drought, the fatal plant loses the non
rishing ﬂuid food of the earth, becomes shrivelled
and stunted in its growth, and frequently, decaying
altogether, resolves back into its primitive state of
crystallization: in this case, it never fails to assume
a less perfect form, having been depreciated in
quality by the abortive attempt at growth. The
plant being formed, the earth expands by means of
ﬁssures and openings made in its surface. The
sheets, with their enclosed sap, are sent forth with
expanded mouths to the surface of the earth, to
receive new life from the descending dew. The
oxygen of the atmosphere gains entrance to the
full-grown expiring fdetus; the heart once more
resumes its elasticity; expansion takes place, and
double circulation commencing for the ﬁrst time,
the fwtus becomes transformed into a living aerial
plant, receiving food, colour, and motion from the
external atmosphere.
The third life of the plant is for the formation of
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 197
its leaves,‘ branches, and ﬂowers, and in this it
becomes enabled to reproduce its species. The down
ward shoots, which formerly conveyed nutriinent to
the foetal plant, are now appropriated to the pur
pose of vessels for carrying oﬂ" all excrementitious
matter, and depositing it in the earth, the matter
thus deposited forming distinct roots feeding from
thr- earth beneath. While the young plant is as~
cending into its new element, and preparing fresh
seed for the continuation of its species, the old one
or root is shooting downwards; and by so doing,
it branches into the ground, and these branches
" “ The leaves of plants have beien compared to the lungs of ani
mals, upon a very few slender analogies: but the additional ofﬁces
known to be performed by leaves, show them to be also allied to the
digestive and assimilating organs. Assuredly, the leaves of vegeta
bles very generally perform the ofﬁces of animal stomachs; as when
they convert the raw materials of vegetable nutriment into a new and
peculiar substance for building up the fabric of plants.“—Sir Anthony
far/isle, Philos. Mag. vol. xl. p. 41.
“ The moisture which ﬂoats in the atmosphere is of the most es
sential use to vegetable life. The leaves ot dying plants appear to
an upon this vapour in its elastic form, and to absorb it. Some vege
tables increase in weight from this cause when suspended in the
atmosphere and unconnected with the soil, as the houselcek and the
aloe. In very intense beats, and when the soil is dry, the life of plants
seems to be preserved by the absorbent power of their leaves. It
follows from what has already been said, that, with an increasing heat
of the atmosphere, an increasing quantity of vapour will rise into it,
if supplied from any quarter. Hence it appears that aqueous vapour
0 most abundant in the atmosphere, when it is most needed/2w Me purpose:
qflf/e, and that when other sources of moisture are cut oﬂ' this is most
rupion-l.“—— lV/mvcll.
198 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINC
become supporters to the young tree 01
above it.
Thus have plants two distinct modes of
gation at the same time: one by the root fr
earth beneath, forming varieties of its kind
the other is by the young plant above, wl
labouring for the continuation of its own p
species!
I cannot quit this interesting branch
subject without a few observations on the pre‘
of the primary shapes of matter in the orgal
of the vegetable kingdom. Whoever has i
it, must, on the perusal of the organization
universe, depicted in the Second Chapter, hr
with the similarity of design. The bear
may be traced in a multitude of ways
leaves, roots, buds, ﬂowers, and interior or
tion of a variety of plants and vegetables; 1
rings or lines, formed by the circulation am
sition of the ﬂuid materials, are amply descri
well as the. axis or gravitating line of the pa
parts of the structure. Again, it is wand
observe how the aeriform portion of the ]
adapted for the reception of the vital ﬁu
above, those
“ Stars of morning, (IMO-(1701's, which the sun
lmpearls on every leaf and ﬂower.“—-Jllllml.
“The simplest, and apparently the most
5
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. IOU
tary texture met with in vegetables, is formed of
exceedingly minute vesicles, the coats of which
consist of transparent membranes of ewtreme
teuuity. The diagram is a highly magniﬁed repre
sentation of the simplest form of these vesicles. But
they generally adhere together more closely, compo
sing by their union 0. species of vegetable cellular
tissue, which may be regarded as the
basis oressential component maferial
ﬂ of every organ in the plant.* In their
‘ a original state, these vesicles have an
‘ oval or globular form; but they are
soon transformed into other shapes,
either by the mutual compression which they sus
tain from being crowded into a limited space, or
from unequal expansions in the progress of their
development. “ Oval oriﬁces, or stomata, as they
have been termed, are discoverable on almost every
part of the surface of the cuticle, but more especi
ally in those that have a green colour. They are
placed at nearly equal distances from one another,
and are particularly numerous in the culirle of the
leaves, where they occupy the intervals between
the ﬁbres. These oriﬁces conduct into the interior
of the plant, probably into the general cavity of the
intercellular spaces. It is evident, from the func
' “From the simple cellular tissue all higher forms of organii
texture are derived."-—Dr. Grant.
200 THE DISCOVERY or run VITAL ancxrmz,
tions they perform, that they must occasionally open
and close; but the minuteness of their size pre
cludes any accurate observation as to the nature of
the apparatus provided for the performance of these
motions. Amici describes their margins as formed
by two cells, by the movements of which, combined
perhaps with those of the adjoining cells, he cou
ceives these oriﬁces are opened and closed. Great
variety, however, is observable in the structure of
the stomata in different species of plants. Many
plants have no stomata, either on the cuticle of the
leaves or on that of the stem. This is the ease
with such aquatic plants as are habitually immersed
in water. In those that are only partially immers'. d,
stomata are met with in those parts exclusively
which are above the water. The leaves of the
ranunculus aquatic-us, when made to grow in the
air, acquire stomata, but lose them entirely when
growing under water. Stoniata are wanting in all
plants whose structure is wholly cellular.
Fig- l Fig-1 “ Fig. l is a magniﬁed rc
'; presentation of the appearance
a in the cuticle of the lycoporlium
L: denticulatum, taken in the cen
m“
(3-h—
-=r=._--"'*-*
‘
' tral part of the lower surface of
the leaf from De Candolle. Fig.
l 2 is a still more magniﬁed \'l(’\\'
3' of the stomata in the leaf of the
i lilium canllillum, from Aunt-l."
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 201
“Botanists are far from being agreed as to the
precise functions which the stomata perform. Their
usual ofﬁce, undoubtedly, is to exhale water; but
they probably also absorb air under certain circum
stances, and in particular exigencies.“
Animal life has had for its base the decomposed
vegetable matter and dew: the decay of one race
of animals erecting the basis of a new and improved
species of living machinery. The carbon and dew
falling upon the vegetable, occasions electricity to
take place, when the oxygen is inhaled by the vege—
table, and carbonic acid allowed to ascend into the
surrounding atmosphere. By means of this elec
tricity new forms of matter are produced, and animal
life is generated. Wonderful to say, every individual
ﬂower or vegetable will produce an animal of ﬁnite
dimensions,+ which mode of propagation is illus
° Dr. Roget.
1’ Dr. Darwin, in his Notes on the Botanic Garden, says, “I am
acquainted withaphilosopher, who, contemplating this subject, thinks
it not impossible, that the ﬁrst insects were the anthers or stigmas of
ﬂowers, which had, by some means, loosed themselves from their
parent plant, like the male ﬂowers of Vallisneria, and that many other
insects have gradually in long process of time been formed from these;
some srquiring wings, others ﬁns, and others claws, from their cease
less efforts to procure their food, or to secure themselves from injury,
He contends, that none of these changes are more incomprehensible
than the transformation of tadpoles into frogs, and caterpillars into
butterﬂies."
“ Allied to these simplest plants and animalculm, are certain sm
hignous beings, whirh, on the verge of both kingdoms, seem to be
long indisputably to neither: for in them some of the most distinctive
202 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE.
trated by the orchis, of which the subjoined diagram
is a. specimen.
characteristic signs of animals and vegetables are so conjoined, that at
times they Would appear to be both, and again indiﬁ‘erently either.
Thus, their germs take root and grow like ordinary plants, while the
fruit they bear seems to be possessed of voluntary motion, and to pass.
in its development, through a stage qf'ammul existence, before it; in its
turn takes root, and bears another generation. Zoocarpet, or fruit
animalcul're, are the names which, not improperly, have been given to
these connecting links of the animal and vegetable reigns."—_I’ oil-:50"
Burnett‘s ()utlmes of Botuny.
Fly 'l'ree, in natural history, a name given by the common people
of America to a tree, whose leaves, they say, at a certain time of the
year, produce ﬂies. On examining these leaves about the middle of
summer, the time at which the ﬂies use to be produced. there are
found on them a sort of bags ofa tough matter of about the sice of a
ﬁlbert, and of adusky greenish colour. ()1! opening one of these bag
with a knife, there is usually found a singlcfull-grownﬂ_y, of the guilt
kind, and a number of small worms, which in a day or two more have
wings and ﬂy away in the form of their parent. The tree is of the
mulberry kind, and its leaves are usually very largely stocked with
these insect bags; and the generality of them are found to contain the
insects in their a orm-state; when they become Winged they shun
make their way out. The bags begin to appear when the leaves are
young, and afterwards grow with them; but they never ruu.ple the
leaf or injure its shape. They are of the kind of leaf galls, and partake
in all respects, except size, ofa species we have frequent on the larg
maple, or, as it is called, the rymniore."—Encyclop¢diu Britrmuica.
A serpentﬁmoer. The following is also an interesting example of the
identity of animal and vegetable existence :—-“ Some ltalian journals
mention that a new organized being has been discovered in the inte
rior of Africa, which seems to form an intermediate link between
vegetable and animal life. This singular being has the shape of a
spotted serpent. lt drags itself along on the ground, and, instead of
a head, has a ﬂower shaped like a bell, which contains a viscous
liquor. The ﬂies and other insects, attracted by the smell ot'this
juice, enter into the ﬂower, where they are caught by the adhesive
matter. The ﬂower then closes,and remains shut until the prisoner:
are bruised and transformed into chyle. The indigestible porting,
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 203
(a) ﬁphrys apifera, the Bee orehis. (b) Ditto, tuberous rout.
(c) Flower separate, to show the insect form. [(d) Ophrys nmscifera,
or Fly ophrys. (c) Tuberous root. (f) Flower separate] (g) Aceras
lntbrupopbora, the green Man-orehis. (1:) Root of the same. (i) (i)
(k) Flowers separate, to exhibit their anthropomorphous appearance,
as ﬁgured by Rudbeck.—-Pn_ifi'ssor Burnett.
Thus has man, like the vegetable, a twofold mode
of propagation. The ﬁrst natural man has been
created by dew dropped upon the ﬂower of the
vegetable; the second formed from himself.
It must be reeollected that all matter is of animal
origin: the vegetable and animal kingdoms, which
cover the surface of our earth, form its boundary or
skin; and this earth is but one organ of the universe,
of which all the minute portions are uniting to
produce one grand being of a superior or celestial
order of creation.
such as the head and the wings, are thrown out by two lower spiral
upenirrJ : this Vegetable serpent has a skin resemblingleaves, a white
and soft ﬂesh, and, instead of a bony skeleton, a cartilaginous frame
ﬁlled with yellow marrow. 'l‘he natives consider it delicious food."
20-} THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
CHAP. VI.
MAN.
“ Are not the mountains, waves, and skies, a part
Of me and of my soul, as I of them?“-Lonn anos'.
MAN is acompound of the earth: his elementary
particles are derived from the three kingdoms,
animal, vegetable, and mineral; the proportions of
each are arranged suitably and in accordance with
his formation and structure. The atmosphere he
is intended to breathe is composed of the same
materials, and proportioned with as much exact
ness as himself: the earth has abundantly supplied
him with all that is necessary for his support and
safety. He may be with truth considered a moving
machine, endowed with power to perpetuate his
species.
This machine—man, is constructed upon strictly
mathematical and architectural principles, both as
to the time of its formation, and also to the purp-ue
it is intended to perform; when completed and set
in motion, it will continue that motion (barring
accident) for scvcnty, or even one hundred years,
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 205
more or less, according to the age and quality of
the material that formed its base and superstructure.
lhave stated that the seeds of all matter are
diamond. When these primitive particles become
united into an ovum (the ﬁrst state of animal exis
tence,) they attract and adhere to each other) fric
tion is produced, and the ﬂuid spark of active life
elicited ;+ ﬂuids have not only the power of attrac
tion, but also that of repulsion; heat, being the re
pellant power, causes expansion; and the lighter
particles of the ovum being thrown to the surface,
form the membrane of life which surrounds the
ﬁrst germ of animal structure, (see page 48 of this
work.) This membrane has a galvanic action, or
power of opening its mouth or cavity, and attract
ing matter analogous to itself. The galvanic action
of the membrane is produced by vascular distention,
" “When two pieces of polished glass are pressed together, they
adhere to each other, and it requires some force to separate them.
This is said to depend upon the attraction of cohesion. The same.
attraction gives the globular form to drops of water, and enables
ﬂuids to rise in capillary tubes; and hence it is sometimes called
capillary attrartion. This attraction,like gravitation, seems common
to all matter."—Daiy's Agricultural Chemistry.
4‘ “The. ovum which is formed in the uterus immediately after
impregnation, possesseswithin itself, not only the principles of vitality,
but ﬂuids which are appropriated to the purposes of organization. A
vascular connexion at this time with the uterus would be of no ser
vice. to the embryo, but the warmth and moisture which the uterus
possesses are perhaps as essential to its growth as the warmth com
municatcd to the egg during incubation.“
Dr. Holland on the Physiology of the Fctui, Liver, and Spleen.
206 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
causing the machine or heart to burst open. Thus
heat and cold alternately act upon each other, the
latter attracting, the former repelling. The simple
muscle, once formed, is a complete animal of itself:
it has the power of gradually enlarging its sphere of
existence by adding link to link, and forming these
links into layers, until a thick elastic tube or 02“ e
(the heart) is wrought, endowed with a multiplied
power of action, (this ﬁrst organ in the machine of
man as well as every other being compounded of a
series of animals, all united together.)
The heart of the fmtus is no sooner formed than
it has its part to act, its power proportioned, how
ever, to the increase of its particles. This primary
organ is chained to, and receives its nourishment
from, the placenta ;* from it, it attracts and absorbs
all the old materials which would otherwise be
thrown 05 from the system of the parent. These
materials are worked up into a new form of gelatin
or plastic matter, suited to its own conditions}~ ab
sorbing all that is necessary for growth, repelling
all that is superﬂuous and foreign, which superﬂuous
' “When the vital actions have proceeded so far in the organization
of the ﬁetus as to create, although imperfectly, the heart, the cone
porta, and the aorta, the umbilical cord may be distinctly perceived,
and it very soon establishes a connexion between the chorion and the
uterus. When this union is fully established. the embryotie is changed
into fu'tal life."— Dr. Holland on the Physiology qftlze Fetus, drc.
'l’ “The primordial of all the parts of the body is a thin gelatinous
mucus, in which the forms are laid."—Sir Charles Bell.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 207
matter. when deposited, becomes a nucleus for other
organs, and they in their turn attract particles of
matter congenial with themselves. The red part, or
ﬂeshy muscle, being the centre, attracts the white
part or ﬂuid: both, like the primary, or heart, being
enclosed by a membrane, which conveys into the in
terior of the muscle or organ nourishment to support
life and growth. This membrane, after absorbing all
that is ﬁt for the embryo organ, repels the surplus
matter to the circumference, forming new deposi
tions. In this manner are organic machines of every
size and form constructed, their stature and dura
bility fured: the brain, liver, lungs, and stomach,
being all compounded of different materials: rejected
and shot off at different periods by the heart of the
ftntus. In forming the different organs of life, the
heart shoots 05 its materials in vessels, (the arteries
and veins,) the same as a tree or planti'" These
vessels are open at their ends, and gradually grow
narrower as they approach their destination, when
they deposit the surplus matter with every fresh
movement of the heart. The joints of the ftntus are
formed in the same manner as the organs, each joint
contracting, or becoming shorter by the inability or
weakened vitality of its primary, the heartsf
' “ There is no relation existing directly between or amongst the
muscles themselves. We must therefore look for some means by which
they are c0mbined."-—Sir Charles Bell.
+ -‘ Since vessels run through the cartilage to generate bone, we
cannot suppose that these vessels are produced in the instant in which
they appear to have existed."—Sir Charles Bell.
208 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
There are seven principal organs concerned in
the construction of this most wonderful machine——
man; without these seven organs, life could not be
completed, (all other organs being secondary.)
These seven principal organs all communicate with
each other, and with their primary, the heart, by a
double set of vessels (the veins and arteries), which
vessels are not only empowered to receive surplus
matter from the heart, and deposit it at the several
organs, but also to convey to the most distant parts
of the system, nourishment, to sustain life and
growth. These elastic vessels give 011' an atmos
pheric ﬂuid, which ﬁlters through their sides, form
ing the mucus. Thus is the membrane preserved
from corrosion, otherwise it would lose its elasticity,
become inﬂamed and irritable, and fever would be
the inevitable result, by which the machine itself
would suﬂ'er injury. The whole of the machine of
man is a compound or continuation of vases, or
organic vessels, each part having a double function
to perform. Each organ has its boiling and freez
ing point, or a line of gravity peculiar to itself} (see
page 31 and 32 of this work,) and may be said to
resemble a jette d’eau and ﬁltering machine. While
these organs ﬁlter through their sides or coat, they
" “There exists for the different organs a scale of extensibility,
at the top of which are those which have the greatest laxity in the
arrangement of their ﬁbres, as the muscles, the skin, and cellular
substance; at the bottom of the scale are those which are characterized
by their density, as the bones, the cartilages, the tendons, and tin
nails."-—Bir1mt.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 209
are also throwing oﬂ’ from their upper surface (or ea
vity) a continual stream of boiling ﬂuid diamond,
by means of the veins and arteries, which material
descending to its gravitating point, (the point of
extreme cold,) forms fresh provisions for the organs
or vessels beneath. Wherever the veins and arte
ries terminate, the nerves commence. These last
have their origin in the uterus, and terminate in the
brain. The deposition of matter in the uterus
occasions a boiling electric ﬂuid to arise from
thence, which, forming vessels in pairs, ascends
to elongate the spine, and ﬁnally deposits at the
extreme point of ascension the material which
constitutes the brain. Thus is kept up a constant
connexion between the heart, utems, and brain.
The heart being the centre or balance, the uterus
the weight or point of gravity of the foetus, the
brain may be considered the power or point of
extreme levity. These three organs ate not only
the ﬁrst constructed in the machine, but, through
their means, life and growth are sustained, every
injury to the fabric repaired, and the species
preserved. Thus the old materials, which (if not
thus arrested) would be thrown 011’ from the system
of the parent, are concocted in their receptacle, (the
heart of the fmtus,) and branched oﬁ', according to
the quality of the matter, to form new organs. The
ﬁnest portion is sent to the brain; the coloured
matter most probably forms the liver; the porous
P
210 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
or coke-like substance being appropriated to the
lungs. Now, as these materials are communicated
through the placenta from the mother, and con
veyed by the umbilicus to their destination (the
heart of the foetus), it is evident that the foetus does
not want the use of a stomach; its primary organ
performing that ofﬁce. If then food does not pass
through the stomach of the ftntus, bile will not be
necessary to cause peristaltic motion; therefore, the
liver as yet is inactive, there being no excrement to
be carried off; the lungs also are not in motion, there
being no external or atmospheric air to breathe?
Here then we ﬁnd three of the principal organs not
brought into action until the birth of the child—the
lungs, liver, and stomach, and therefore the fcntus
can have but one current or circulation,+that cireu
lation evidently intended for the formation and
growth of the machine alone, and the foetus not
having yet been exposed to the sun’s rays, this
circulation must be white, for light is essential to
colouri The organs must ﬁrst have existence and
' Neither are the brain and uterus appropriated to their destinnl
function.
'9' The returning circulation not commencing until after the birth
of the child.
1 The colour of the blood is given by the oxygen of the air or
atmosphere. “ The blood in crustaceous animals is white;—-ma_v not
this circumstance arise, in part, from a less extensive or complete
exposure to the inﬂuence of oxygen? The more or less perfect manner
in which org/gen is enabled to act, occasions all the diversities in the ("lo-n
qf the circulating ﬂuid in warm blooded animal: at diﬂersnt ages, and
also all the z-(zrietie: in the degrees ofanimal heat.“--Dr. Holland.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 211
growth before they can be extended and put in
motion. Here then we ﬁnd two distinct lives, the
fmtal diﬂ’ering entirely from the locomotiVe. The
former (which is subsequent to the conception of
an ovum,) in which the animal is supported and kept
up by the nourishment and warmth afforded by the
mother: this life being intended for the growth and
formation of the child, prior to its birth, by which
means the foetus or machine is prepared for the
wear, tear. and casualties it is to encounter in a
subsequent state of its existenceﬁ" Common re
ﬂection will tell us how necessary it must be, that
such a complicated and ﬁnely formed machine as
that of man should have time to thicken and
cement the primitive organs to the arteries and
t “ The instant at which the foetus begins to exist is nearly that of
its conception; but this existence, the sphere of which is every day
enlarged, is not the same as that which the child is destined to enjoy
aﬁer birth. The state in which the foetus exists while in the womb
has been compared to that of a profound sleep. Such comparison is
inexact. In a. state of sleep the animal life is only in partsuspended.
In the fetus it has not commenced. We have seen, in fact, that this
life is made up of the simultaneous or distinct exercise of the senses,
of the nerves, of the brain, of the organs of locomotion, and the voice.
Now in these diﬁ'erent functions, every thing in such state is inactive.“
—Bic1|at.
“ Now, we will take an example from the highest link of animal
existence, or, if you will, the lowest ; and descend from man to
an insect. I take the double condition in which man is viewed by
pi!) siologists: that of the i‘mtus, and that of the adult. What is more
extraordinary than the progression from the one to the other?
Observe the child at the birth; that form is totally unlike the adult
state. You know that the peculiar form which distinguishes the
fetus is positively and absolutely necessary to its safety at birth. You
P2
212 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL ancrpuz,
veins that are afterwards to sustain such a velocity
of motion as that given to the lungs by the atmos
pheric air.
As soon as the machine is perfectly articulated
together, exactly to measurement and time, the
size of every organ proportioned not a single day
or hour beyond the period prescribed, a cloud
comes over the amnios or fmtal atmosphere} and
deposits almost instantaneously a membraneous
see the frame grows in a particular manner up to the period of birth,
Which no sooner has taken place than another form is assumed, and upon
that model man is constructed. Now, you do not merely see in the form
of the faztus, before any external inﬂuence can have operated, a pro
vision for birth, but you discover in it phenomena of life; for 'he
child in the womb has a life suited to the period of gestation ; but
when that period has arrived, it dies as effectually as if a creature that
breathed here were put under water. Now if a woman have a tnmou r,
there is no limit to that tumour: it goes on increasing until it takes
life by destroying the powers of life, the drawing too plentifully upon
the ﬂuids of the mother. But at the period at which birth should take
place, a convulsion is produced and the child dies. Why does it die!
Because there is a provision, not only in all the internal organs ofthe
heart, in the lungs, in the vessels, but in the life of the fetus. It is
provided that at a certain period the manner of that life should be
changed, and, if it be not changed at the appointed time, the fetus
dies. You see here then a clear prospective provision, that, at a cer
tain period, a certain change shall take place, aﬁer the structure (3"thr
fetus isformed. You may take the simple ﬂy, the larva creeping at the
bottom of the pool. Now anticipate its period, take it up, and dissect
it; you ﬁnd its wings folded up curiously, you ﬁnd them supplird
with muscles, the muscles with nerves, the nerves with a source of
energy. Nothing of the kind has been put into use, but these things are
prospective of the condition which the animal is to assume."
Sir Charles Bell,from the Lancet.
' “ Towards the close of ﬁetal existence, the amnios becomes thick
or loses its transparency."—Holland01 the Physiology oft/u Farm, (it.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 213
covering for the protection of the fretus. This
membrane, or true skin, is one continued muscle,
being connected with every membrane throughout
the machine, and is the elastic principle or life of
man. This web of life, or elastic covering, sur
rounds every particle of the machine, unites these
particles into organs, and when the frame is per
fected, it encloses the whole internally and exter
nally.
The atmosphere of the foetus losing its elasticity,
the fcetus loses its levity—life is suspended during
its progress into a new world: the child does not
die, but becomes asphyxiatcd.
Now, instead of the heart, veins, arteries, and
lungs of the foetus being oxygenated, as has hither
to been supposed, they are all ﬁlled with hydrogen,
and the child comes into the world gasping for life
with its mouth open. The error of anatomists has
been in seeking to arterialize the blood of the foetus;
oxygenation, whether in plants or animals, must be
progressive. Could anatomy have discovered the
vital principle, then would it have been discovered
long ago; the error has been in seeking for what
could never be found in foetal life: circulation of
red blood does not take place in either animals or
plants until they are exposed to atmospheric air:
the arteries and veins, as I have said, are ﬁlled,
not with oxygen, but with hydrogen gas; and the
oxygen of the atm0sphere coming in contact with
214 THE mscovarw OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
the hydrogen, inﬂates the lungs, and, with the ut
most velocity, gives an impetus to the expiring
heart!" It is in fact the contraction or condensation
of the outward ﬂuid amnios pressing the white blood
(or hydrogen) back again into the cavity of the
heart, which had rejected it, that causes an extraor
dinary eﬂ'ort in that organ to relieve itself, and, with
one volcanic or muscular opposing eﬂort, to throw
the whole of its ﬂuid contents to the outward sur
facerf Thus is given an impetus to the whole
muscular frame of the almost exhausted ftetus, while
the ﬂuid repelled to the surface assists, like one
immense wave of the ocean, to throw the helpless
foundling _babe on the shore of an unknown island.
The ﬁrst rush of atmospheric air into the lungs of
a new born babe may be compared to the ﬁring of
a pistol or cannon, the ﬂash of light certainly not
seen, but felt throughout the frame, ere the cry
of the infant pronounces it lives.
Organic or aeriform life commences with the
pressure of the atmospheric air into the open mouth
of the new-born babe, when instantaneous expansion
of the lungs for the ﬁrst time takes place; and with
"‘ “It may be stated, as a universal law, that whenever venous
becomes arterial blood, air is rectired directly from without, and who!
ever is excrementitious is expelled directlyfrom within."-Hn.land.
1' “In asphyxia, the different organs do not cease to not because
the heart has ceased to supply them with blood, but because it no
longer supplies them with that sort of blood by which they can be
stimulated."—-Bzchat.
5
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 215
the ﬁrst movement of the lungs, the air is, with the
greatest velocity, sent into the cavity of the heart,
there to meet with materials to supply and keep up
silent combustion. These materials are rebounded
off again from the heart in a ﬂuid of living matter,it
through every artery to the extreme parts of the
system, there to be deposited, and rest until taken
up again by the veins, and by them returned back
to the heart. The arterial blood loses much of its
heat in travelling from the heart; so that, when it
arrives at the veins, it is no longer the same living
blood; its elasticity is diminished by the loss of its
heat: the blood returned to the heart through the
veins is not organic, not living blood. In the
manner we have described, at the ﬁrst entrance into
life, circulation commences : it begins at the mouth,
is occasioned by the combustion of materials ab
sorbed in the heart, and (barring accident) circu
lation will continue until the machine is worn out.+
The heart may be considered a real steam appa
ratus, and if it is not from time to time well supplied
with fuel, the vessel will become languid, and
cease to move; or, on the contrary, if supplied with
too much fuel, the steam arising from the blood will
increase, and, without great care to counteract the
" The blood, which has now become red.
'4’ “ The veins and arteries seem, by their continual motion, to
resemble the agitation of ﬁre; and when the heart of an animal is just
plucked from the body, its palpitation is like a bursting ﬂame.“—
Ciru'o, Qr'tluz Nature qfthe Gods.
216 THE DISCOVERY or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
effect, by giving vent at the valves, the vessel will
be rent asunder, and the machine shattered and
destroyed.*
Every living animal is undergoing combustion,
and, like man, the most perfect machine, moves
about on the surface of this earth by atmospheric
pressure. The difference between elasticity and
irritability is, that the former belongs to, and is
the life of the machine itself; the latter is the con
sequence of the machine being put in motion:
muscular motion being that of the animal structure
itselfﬁ' while locomotion is a foreign power, or
" “ The bulk of the heart, compared to that of other parts, is larger
in thefatus than in the child that has breathed."——Rirhemnd.
Dr. George Rees, in a lecture delivered at the Mechanic‘s lusti
tution, February 20th, 1832, “ gave a very familiar explanation of the
operation of the vital principle, by comparing it with the steam
engine. The steam, he said, might be considered the matter of life,
and the movements of the machine, the functions of life. The
suspension of vitality in the one case, or the moving power in the
other, would render the machine useless, though the mechanism might
remain complete. “ " The basis of the doctor's theory appeared tube
that life is a process of combustion, and the simple experiment of
blackening a card by the ﬂame of a candle conveyed to the audiences
very‘intelligible idea of the mode by which carbon is thrown off from
the surface of the lungs; for though, Dr. Rees observed, candles have
nota place in the catalogue of modern luxuries, we eat substances
whose chemical properties are of a similar kind, as carbon is the prin
cipal ingredient in all animal as well as vegetable matter."—Globe.
1- “ Many have been much puzzled in some doubtful matters
relating to infants in the womb; as, whether in that station they have
respiration, and whether their heart and arteries have pulsation ; and
consequently, whether the blood in the infant doth circulate; and
\\ hetlu’r the animal spirits exercise the same functions which they do
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 217 -
additional matter put into the animal to propel it
forward, and move it in any particular direction}
Thus the heart which was the imbibing or sucking
organ of the foetal machine, changes its structure,
and becomes also the forcing pump of the locomotive
life.
after it is come out of the womb. I do conceive, the infant, as long
as it continues in the womb, doth only live the life of a plant, and is
like to a sucker that receives its growth from the tree, in receiving its
nutriment and augmentation from the mother: it hath no respiration,
or as little as can be imagined; and consequently, that its heart and
arteri~ s do not undergo any pulsation; neitherdoth the blood circulate
in its vessels, nor do the animal spirits perform those functions they
are intended for after the birth of the infant. The parts of the infant
in tl.e womb lying so compact and close, and every place ﬁlled up
with bumours, excrements, and internal air, there is no room left to
admit air from without ; especially being inclosed by two thick
members, and a surrounding moat of serous humours: it being the
external air forcing into the lungs is the chief cause of inspiration
and expiration, as I have expressed before, that being excluded, there
can be no respiration in the infant in the womb. What I have to say
concerning the manner and causes of pulsation, may be best under
stood by a comparison to the sea; which (though it be in the calmest
season) is subject to heave up and sink down, or to be dilated and
contracted, as appears by its waves, which is not unlike the pulsation
1)mm~’c (dilatation,) and Systolc (contraction) of the heart and
arteries."—The Vanities of Philosophy and Physic, by Gideon Harvey.
‘ " With the foetus, locomotion is not a portion of the animal life.
I believe we may conﬁdently assert, that in the fmtus the animal life
does not exist, and that all the actions which take place at this age,
depend upon the organic life. The fetus, indeed, has nothing of the
"pedal character of the animal. lts very existence is that of the
vegetable; and its destruction can only be said to be that of a living
bndv, not of an animated being. Thus in the cruel alternative of
garr'iﬁﬂng the he of the mother, or that of the child, the choice
rum-“,1 be doubtful.“——Bicllat.
218 THE DISCOVERY or "me VITAL PRINCIPLE,
CHAP. VII.
THE EARTH.
“ A Living Being, considered as an object of chemical research, is
a laboratory, within which a number of chemical operations are
conducted; of these operations, one chiefobject is to produce all these
phenomena which, taken collectively, are denominated Life; while
another chief object is to develope gradually the corporeal machine or
laboratory itself, from its existence in the condition of an atom, as it
were, to its utmost state of perfection."
Bcrzelius’s Traité de Chimie, tom. v., p. l.
GEOLOGISTS who have given us theories of the
globe we inhabit have always considered that it
contained the same quantity of matter at the creation
which it possesses in the present day. Now, to
suppose this vast planet to have come into existence
a full-grown body, is contrary to all known laws of
matter. All things are progressive, and this earth
of ours must have commenced its career in the uni
verse under the governance of the same laws which
we daily observe matter to possess : instead therefore
of having been an immense body thrown off from
the sun or a comet at one single stroke, and left to
settle itself and become organized, no one knows
how, for all conjectures have hitherto proved
abortive, I shall endeavour to show, that, like all
other moving bodies, it must have originated from
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 219
the most minute atom, and progressed in size to its
present magnitude! Do we not every where ﬁnd
animals and vegetables start into existence from the
most imperceptible matter, and gradually rise up
into form, and height, and width, and magnitude,
moving about, and giving birth to beings like unto
themselves; those beings commencing in the like
manner their career, and progressing from a minute
to a deﬁnite size, the standard of size as well as of
their durability being dependent upon the quantity
and quality of the matter forming the base of the
superstructure P
All matter in this universe is of animal origin, and
exists successively in three diﬁerent states, which
are the oval, the foetal, and the locomotive. The
Solid is the ﬁrst organized state of existence: in this
Condition matter is at perfect rest, and always ovi
form: the ﬂuid is the second period in which the
matter has active life, and acquires the heart-form :
the acriform or third stage is locomotive, and in
this the animal is fully developed in its peculiar
' “On tracing living beings to their origin, he (the naturalist)
learns that every individual vegetable and animal takes rise from an
atom ofimperceptible minuteness, and gradually incrmsrs in bulk by
ginpegsive secretions of new matter, derived from foreign sources, and
L" some reﬁned, but unknown process, transmitted into its own sub
stance. Then, following the progressive development of the organs,
he Observes them undergoing various modiﬁcations, as they are
manning new forms, which characterize certain drﬁnite epochs in the
general growth qf the iyitcm."—Dr. Roget.
220 THE mscovsnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
shape, as the horse, the lion, the man.‘ These
three stages of matter, although successively
acquired by the animal, are always united in its
machine. Thus, for example, in the egg, we have
all three kinds, the solid, ﬂuid, and aeriform, at once;
but in the oval period, the solid predominates. In
the fmtal life, the three are still combined, but the
ﬂuid or active principle is in excess; and in the
third stage the triple combination is continued, but
here the aeriform has the ascendancy over the two
former, the solid and ﬂuid. Solidity, ﬂuidity, and
elasticity form the basis of all living machinery;
without solidity no seed or ovum could be formed;
without ﬂuidity no foetal or organic body had been
produced; without the aerial or elastic formofmatter,
locomotive machinery would never have been
executed. The universe, as well as every portion,
however minute, contained therein, exists at this
present moment in these three several forms of
matter: it is one extensive and continually progress
ing piece of moving machinery, composed of one
elementary body, and governed by the primary law
* “In themoth, the butterﬂy, and indeed almost all the lepidopterous
class, the entire insect, in the course of its very brief duration, under
goes not less than three distinct metamorphoscs. From an egg it
becomes a worm, from a worm an aurelia, from an aurelia an active
and aerial ﬂy. lts organs experience an equal variation, and receive
and separate the vital gasses in an equally different manner; yet the
animal itself continues the same, and loses nothing of its personality."
Bluson Good.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 221
of gravitation, originally impressed upon it by the
First Great Architect. ‘
The Earth, to which many writers have, like the
great Kepler, assigned vital powers, being a part or
organ of the foetal universe, I shall assume to
be governed by the laws of animal life, and in
consequence compelled to pass successively through
the oval, the fretal, and the locomotive stages of
existence.
The ﬁrst of these periods
terminated with the general
deluge; the second is that
under which the planet now
.1 “,v.
progresses: the third it has ‘,>.If‘.~.-““-“‘
not yet attained.
It was a favourite opinion
of the ancients that the Earth
originated in an ovum: an
interesting example of the
dawning light of truth, even
in those apparently darkened ages of mankind; the
subjcined diagram represents the famous Mundane
Egg, “ encompassed by the genial folds of the Ago
thodaimon, or good serpent, and suspended aloft
in the temple of Hercules at Tyre.“
The primitive ovum, or foundation-stone, of our
' )laurice‘s Ancient Hindoostan.
“The elder Taut or Hermes, who ﬂourished in Egypt near four
hundred years before the second of that name, prime minister and
umnsellor of Osiris. held as an established maxim, that the world
222 "ms mscovsnr or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
planet was composed of diamond. This material
(thrown 05' from the sun in an elastic state, in the
manner described in pages 38 and 39 of this work,)
was deposited in its most solid form at the point of
extreme cold, (at that time the universal apex,) and
was completely carbonized by the combustion it had
undergone in its descent. Thus, the mundane egg
was unlike solar matter in this respect, that, while
the latter consisted of pure unadulterated materials,
the former was enclosed or contaminated by carbon.
In other words, the solar or celestial matter was
composed of pure white, while the planetary con~
sisted of pure black diamond!
was oviform, and hence the oval ﬁgure of many of the temples of
Egypt."--Ibid.
“ It is Eusebius, in the third chapter of his Evangelical Prepara
tion, who acquaints us that the Egyptians considered an egg as the
apt symbol of the world, and from them this doctrine, together with
many Eastern superstitions, was by Orpheus, in succeeding ages,
introduced into Greece. This doctrine of the primeval egg, however,
was neither peculiar to the Egyptians nor to the Indians, for the
thnicians believed their Zophasemin, or the heavenly intelligences,
which were the objects oftheir adoration, to be oviform, and, according
to Plutarcb, worshipped an egg in the orgia of Bacchus, as an image
ofthe world. In the same traditionary opinion that the world was
made from an egg, or at least bore a great resemblance to it. many
other nations of the ancient world coincided, and they supported the
propriety of the allegory, not only from the perfection of its external
form, but fancifully extended the allusion even to its internal compo
sition; comparing the pure white shell to the fair expanse of heaven;
the ﬂuid transparent white to the circumauibient air; and the more
solid yolk to the central cart .“-—1bid.
" “ In all ﬂame, the light is chieﬂy derived from the charcoal. First
gas is obtained, and then the charcoal deposited."—-I'rgfessor Bran/r.
“ Sir Humphrey Davy, by a strong and long-continued current
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 223
Solidity or hardness is the essential quality of
primitive matter, and we have shown how this
increases with its distance from the sun. It is
therefore evident that if our earth’s diameter be now
considered 180°, its centre must have been in the ﬁrst
instance 90° farther distant from the sun, so that the
matter composing the primary terrestrial ovum must
have been as many degrees more crystalline in its
of the voltaic ﬂuid, succeeded in producing a substance from a point
of carbon, resembling in many respects the diamond. lts form was
crystalline, and it possessed suﬁcicnt hardness to scratch glass; but
it was black and opaque.“—Saturday Magazine.
“ M. Humboldt, in a treatise published lSOI, supposes the solid
parts of the earth to have been precipitated from a kind of gross and
feculent atmosphere during the existence of a chaos. The idea is,
indeed, fanciful; but the author‘s chemical facts and experiments
are entitled to serious attention, and particularly those which relate
to the quantity of carbon contained in common atmospheric air,
here calculated at three-twentieths of the whole, and which seem to
: upport the doctrine of oxigeneity of light.“
Notes of Mason Good‘s Lucretius.
“Geologists who hare speculated respecting the formation of the
globe, have considered it as originally in a ﬂuid state, either by the
agency of ﬁre or water; but the simplest form of matter with which
we are acquainted is that of gas or vapour. Let us for a moment
consider the elements of which all terrestrial substances are composed,
as existing in this simple form when the ﬁat of Almighty power
impressed upon the whole the various aﬂinitics by which they coalesced
and formed a ﬂuid or solid mass. During their union, intense light
and heat would probably be evolved, presenting to the distant inha~
hli'ants of the universe the appearance of a star of great brilliancy,
Imt of short duration. Nor are facts wanting to warrant this hypo
thesis: the sudden concretion of stony masses in the atmospliere,with
the intense light evolved during their fermation, may be analogous
to the production of a planet.
It is well known to astronomers, that new stars have suddenly
appeared with a hrilliancy exceeding that of Jupiter. These stars
224 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
nature than that now deposited at the planet‘s sur
face, as dew or snow)“ This ovum, pro tempore,
the most minute and condensed atom in the universe,
were stationary, but their splendour diminished, and in a few years
was extinct. Such was the star seen by Tycho Brahe in 1572, and by
Kepler in 1604. Nothing like them has since been observed, nor has
any explanation that I know of ever been attempted. The formation
ofa new planet, by the sudden concretion of gas expanded over a vast
space, oﬂ‘ers, Iconceive, a probable solution of the phenomenon. Such
a concretion might produce more light than the sun, or any of the
ﬁxt stars; for. wherever chemical combination is rapidly taking
place, light and heat are evolved. It would not be difﬁcult to pursue
such speculations, and to imagine this concreted matter to become
cometary or planetary, or to have a succession qunls or strata produced
by repeated runrrclicme, till the atmosphere alone preserved its gaseous
state; nor would it require much ingenuity from such data to form
a theory of the earth as consistent with existing appearances as any
preceding hypotheses."—Bakewcll's Geology.
* “ The word crystal'originally signiﬁed ice, but it was afterwards
applied by the ancients to crystallized silica, or rock crystal; because,
as Pliny informs us, they considered that body as nothing else than
water congealed the action of cold. At present it is employed to
denote the regular ﬁgures which bodies assume when their particles
have full liberty to combine by the laws of cohesion. All the particle'
of bOdier must be at liberty to move bejhre they crystallize; it is obvious
we cannot reduce any bodies to the state of crystals except those which
We are able to make ﬂuid. Now, there are two ways of rendering
bodies ﬂuid—solution in liquid, and fusion by heat. These, of course,
are the only methods of forming crystals in our power. There are
many substances neither soluble in water nor other liquids, which not
withstanding are capable of assuming a crystalline form. This is the
ease with the metals, with glass, and some other bodies. The method
employed to crystallize them is fusion, which is a solution by means
of caloric: by this method the particles are separated from one another,
and the coaling goes on gradually, they are at liberty to arrange them
selves into regular crystals.
“ Rome'- de Lisle has shown that every body susceptible of crystal
lization has a particular form which it most frequently approaches.
Bergman has demonstrated that this primitive form very often has
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 225
was ﬁxed upon the line of universal gravitation, and
likewise connected with the universal heart or sun,
by means of two elastic veins, formed by the loss
of heat in the descending particles. Darkness, we
are told, was in the beginning upon the face of the
deep, and the deep must obviously have been that
portion of the universe placed beneath the sun’s
rays. (See the diagram, in which A represents the
Sun and B the Earth, as originally
deposited.) Such was the situation of
our planet, during its oval state of exis—
tence: placed at the furthest extremity
of the universal sphere, in a region of 0
impure matter, it is evident that the light of the sun,
if it reached the embryotic earth at all, could only
have illumined its upper surface, so that it must
have been in a comparatively darkened state. Thus,
without light, heat, or motion, in a condition of
temporary sleep or death, the adamantine mass must
have acquired that perfect solidity which is essential
to every animal seed.
“Creation sleeps. ‘Tis as the gen‘ral pulse
Of life stood still, and nature made a pause;
A n awful pause! prophetic of her end.“-— Young.‘
been concealed in those very crystals which appear to deviate farthest
from it; and Haiiy has demonstrated, that all cvystal: either have this
p imilwrfnrm, or at [cart contain it as a nucleus within them; for it may
be extrartrd by a skilful mechanical division.“-ll[r:. Somer'villc.
‘ “ Mr. Addison, in his travels, elegantly remarks, that he never
saw .mv statue of sleep that was not ofblack marble, alluding, doubtless.
m l w night, which is appropriated to sleep. All the statues of the
Q
226 THE DISCOVERY or ran VITAL PRINCIPLE,
In this primary state of existence, matter possesses
the laws of attraction and absorption: by the ﬁrst
law, the particles became united into an ovum; by
the second, that ovum was enabled to increase in
growth. By means of absorption, usually called
the attraction of aggregation, all matter attracts its
kind, and the egg receiving from above a constant
supply of particles analogous to itself, must have
absorbed these materials through its skin into the
focus or centre of its body, as the nucleus of
attraction.* Moreover, the egg, from its situation
in the temporary boundary or universal zodiac,
must have been exposed to some species of matter
beyond the sphere of the celestial fcetus; thus the
lower portion, that which was averted from the sun,
Nile, and in particular that ﬁne one at present to be seen in the
garden of the Vatican at Rome, are of black marble, emblematical of
the colour of the Ethiopians, amidst whose lofty mountains that river
has its source.
‘ Usque coloratis aninis devexus ab Inms.‘ "
Indian Antiquities.
" Animal charcoal destroys colour. You cannot bleach charcoal."
lllr. Brande.
' Seeds are incapable of germinating except when oxygen is
present. In the exhausted receiver of the air-pump, in pure azote, in
pure carbonic acid, when moistened they swell, but do not vegetate ;
and if kept in these gasses, lose their living powers, and undergo
putrefaction.“-—Da1=_1/’s Agricultural Chemistry.
“ The absorption ofoxygcn by the seed in germination, has been
compared to its absorption in producing the evolution of foetal life in
the egg; but this analogy is only remote. All animals, from the
most to the least perfect ( lasses, require a supply ofoxygen."
Davy's Agricultural Chemisnjy.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 227
must have received a supply of nutriment from some
source, analogous to that of the human amniosﬁ"
(See pages 49 and 50 of this work.) In the manner
described, the egg must have increased in density
and bqu by the acquisition of fresh deposits of
matter upon its surface. The primary stage of ani
mal existence being intended to collect together a
Ctrtain quantity of materials, forming a base or
fOundation-stone for the superstructure, our earth,
Prior to the ﬂood, must have concentrated within
its Sphere every animal seed requisite for the pro
duction of the perfect machine of man. This accu
mulation of materials into one condensed focus,
eventually caused such extreme pressure, that the
Clectric spark of ﬂuid life must have been elicited
in the centre of the adamantine massrl~
‘ “ The analogy between seeds and eggs has long been observed,
and is conﬁrmed by the mode of their production. The egg is known
to be formed within the hen long before its impregnation; C. P
Wolfe asserts that the yolk of an egg is nourished by the vessels of
'l16 mother, and that it has from those its arterial and venous branches,
but that after impregnation these vessels gradually become impervious
'nml obliterated, and that new ones are produced from the fetus, and
dispersed into the yolk. Haller': Physiology, tom. viii. p. 94.—The
young seed, after fecundation, I suppose, is nourished in a similar
Manner from the gelatinous liquor, which is previously deposited for
that purpose; the uterus of the plant producing or secreting it intoa
reservoir or amnios in which the embryon is lodged, and the young
einbryon is furnished with vessels to absorb a part of it, as in the very
early cmbryon in the animal uterus.“--.Dr. Darwin.
" “ Solid gems may include heterogeneous matter in them. Several
instances of this sort, in opacous stones, I elsewhere recite, upon my
own observation, but in transparent ones they are very great rarities;
Q2
228 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Atoms or seeds, when compressed, generate
and therefore it will not, I presume, be thought strange, ifI mention
but a few.
“ First then, on this occasion,I remember, that a very ingenious and
qualiﬁed lady, who had accompanied her husband in an embassy to a
great monarch, assured me, that she brought thence, among several
rich presents and other rarities, (some whereof she showed me,) a piece
of crystal, in the midst of which there was a drop qfwnter, which, by its
motion, might be very easily observed, especially when the crystal was
made to change its posture. And, if my memory deceive me not, I
have, in some pieces of rock-crystal, taken notice of things that seem
to argue, that somewhat or other was intercepted within the body of
the stone.
“ A curious person that traded much, and was very skilful in Indian
gems, particularly Grisolets, which he got from the Indies, and whereof
he showed me the largest I have yet seen, being asked by me, whether
he had ever found in them any heterogeneous substance, which some
thing I had observed made me suspcct that some of them might
harbour, notwithstanding their hardness ; he averred to me, that among
divers rough ones that were brought from the Indies, he had with
wonder seen one that was about the bigness of a ﬁlbert, in the solid
substance whereof there was a cavity with a certain liquor in it; which
by changing the posture of the stone might be made to move to and
fro in the cavity: and when the drop was settled, it was of the bigness
of a round pearl that he showed me, which wanted somewhat of a
moderate size for a necklace. And when he had answered the questions
I proposed him to clear my doubts, he added, that this rarity made the
stone, which was otherwise of a small value, prized at a hundred
pounds: and I have myself seen a monstrous gem, if I may so call it,
and little less a rarity than the former, that an acquaintance of mine had
bought, (as I afterwards learnt,) from this relater; whose narrative
about the Grisolet, I think the more credible, because that, having
had the-curiosity to break a stone that was brought as a rarity from
the East Indies, where gems are often harboured in such stones, I found
in the solid substance of it (which was so hard as to strike ﬁre like a
ﬂint, and in its little ﬂakes was at least semidiaphanous,) a cavity
wherein were coagulated very minute but polished and crystalline
stones, which seemed to have their points inwards, which argued that
there had been some liquor, in which these glistering particles had
shot, though in process of time the remaining and incoagulable part
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 229
lll‘ilt; heat expands" and creates an atmospheric or
elastic matter, which encloses or surrounds the
ﬂuid substance. Thus is life generated, and orga
nization carried on. From the ﬁrst spark of active
"it", elicited in the centre of the ovum, commenced
a Progressive ascent of animal and vegetable
creation. The iron bond once broken, the vital
Principle once liberated, spark after spark of the
Crystal stream of life succeeds, each ﬂuid drop
Creating its own atmosphere in its ascent to the
boiling point or seat of active life in the ovumsi'
of it may have been imbibed by the ambient matter, if not have
miiped through it, by virtue of some peculiar congruity of it with
the pores of the stone, which need not be thought impossible, since
"perk-nee has assured us, that some solid stones and even gems may
be (though slowly) penetrated or have their texture altered by common
“'Mer. Nor are these the only heterogeneous substances I found
included in this stone.“—Boyls’s Essay on Gems.
A German paper states that three diamonds were lately purchased
at Algiers from a native, which were found in the golden sands of the
Slum-l, in the province of Constantine. Hitherto diamonds have not
been known to exist in Africa. It is remarkable that here, as in the
Brazils and Siberia, they are found in washing for gold. At present the
opinion is that diamonds, like amber, may be formed. and are of very
modern growth. It is not seldom that diamonds contain in the middle
hal'd soft hollows, precisely of the same character as those of amber.
The Journal des Mina contains a notice that beds of amber have
been discovered in the government of Wilna, (Russia ;) and that large
pieces of yellow amber are continually found by the peasants on the
shores of the Szirwenlm, which passes through the country.
* “ Without beat all the matter of the world would be condensed
into a point by the power of attraction; and neither ﬂuidity our life
Could exist."— Dr. Darwin.
'* “ Whilst making experiments on the optical structure of amber,
hr. Brewster was led to compare it with the diamond. He found
230 THE mscovsnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Had not every atom of ﬂuid, as well as solid matter,
been bounded, man could never have existed.
Without an aerifornl or elastic material to cement
the solids, and to restrain the ﬂuids, the particles
of matter would ﬂoat about in a state of confusion,
some singular analogies in the two substances, but one diamond
which he examined presented a new phenomenon of a most unexpected
kind, which, Dr. Brewster observes, is the only fact in the natural
history of this body that promises to throw light upon its origin and
mode of formation. The same phenomenon occurs also with amber.
It is the existence of small portions of air within both substances, the
expansive force of which has communicated a polarizing structure to
the parts in immediate contact with the air. This structure is
displayed by four sectors of polarized light encircling the globule of
air, and can be produced artiﬁcially either in glass or in gelatinous
masses, by a compressing force, propagated circularly from a point.
it is obvious that such an effect cannot arise from any mode of crys
tallization; and if any proof of this were necessary, it might be
sufﬁcient to state, that l have never observed the slightest trace of it
in more than 200 mineral substances which l have examined, nor in
any of the artiﬁcial salts formed from aqueous solutions. it can,
therefore, arise only from the expansive force exerted by the included
air on the diamond and the amber, when they were i» such a soft stare a;
to be susceptible ofwmpreuion_from It) unall ajbrce. That this compres
sible state of the diamond could not arise from the action of heat is
manifest from the nature and the recent formation of the soil in which
it is found, that it could not exist in a mass formed by aqueous
deposition, is still more obvious; and hence we are led to the conclu
sion, rendered probable by other analogies, that the diamond originates
like amber from the consolidation of, perhaps, vegetable matter, which
gradually acquires a crystalline form by theinﬂuenco of time, and the
slow action of corpuscular forces.
“ These results were obtained with ﬂat diamonds regularly crystal
lized; but. on examining Mr. Allan's collection, Dr. Brewster found
one of a perfectly octaedral form, having the same structure, and
containing also an air-bubble of considerable size, which had produced,
by its expansion, the polarizing structure already described."
The Doctor Alriguzoic.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 231
disorder, and chaos. By this elastic web, all ﬂuids
are bound and directed in their course: this plastic
Web surrounds every particle of matter, whether
solid or ﬂuid; it is this which stops the wave in its
course, and bids the tide to ﬂow so far and no
farther.
“ Take but degree away,
The bounded waters
Would lift their bosoms higher than the shores,
And make a sop of all this solid globe."—-Skakspeare.
In the centre of the earth, then, it was that matter
ﬁrstl)ecamemuscular, with whatis now called galvanic
action; there that the embryotic seeds of life ﬁrst took
root, and commenced theirprogressive ascent towards
perfection; each of these primitive crystals, when
awakened to an active state of existence, being one
grade higher in the scale oflife than its predecessorﬁ“
Thus, from the most simple lava, were produced, in
succession, all the various types of creation, forming,
in their progressive ascent, a cavity of living matter
“ “ An hypothesis has been advanced that the original creation of
species has been successive, and took place in the order of their
relative complexity of structure; that the standard types have arisen
the one from the other; that each succeeding form was an improve
ment upon the preceding, and followed in a certain order of develop
ment, according to a regular plan traced by the great Author of the
universe for bestowing perfection on his works. ~ This gradation of
structure was necessarily accompanied by a gradation of faculties; the
object of each change of type being to attain higher objects, and to
advance a farther step towards the ultimate ends ofthe animal creation.
M'tny apparent anomalies which are inexplicable upon any other
supposition, are easily reconcileable to this theory.“--Dr. Roget.
232 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
in the upper portion qf the solid ovum; all these
diversiﬁed forms of matter, being comprehended
in three grand classes, namely, those formed by the
solid, those formed by the ﬂuid, and those by the
acriforme species of matter."‘ Thus did matter
’ “ From the accurate experiments and observations of Spallanzani
it appears that, in the Spartium Junceum, rush-broom, the very
minute seeds were discerned in the pod at least twenty days before
the ﬂower is in full bloom, that is, twenty days before fecundation.
At this time also the powder of the anthers was visible, but glued
fast to their summits. The seeds however at this time, and for ten
days after the blossom had fallen oﬂ', appeared to consist of a gela
tinous substance. On the eleventh day after the falling of the blossom
the seeds became heart-shaped, with the basis attached by an appen'
dage to the pod, and a white point at the apex; this white point u as
on pressure found to be a cavity including a drop of liquor.
“On the twenty-ﬁfth day, the cavity which at ﬁrst appeared at the
apex, was much enlarged and still full of liquor; it also contained a
very small semi-transparent body, of a yellowish colour, gelatinous,
and ﬁxed by its two opposite ends to the sides of the cavity.
“ In a month the seed was much enlarged, and its shape changed
from a heart to a kidney, the little body contained in the cavity was
increased in bulk, and was less transparent, and gelatinous, but there
yet appeared no organization.
“ On the fortieth day the cavity, now grown larger, was quite filled
with the body, which was covered with a thin membrane; after this
membrane was removed, the body appeared of a bright green, and was
easily divided by the point of a needle into two portions, which
manifestly formed the two lobes, and within these, attached to the
lower part, the exceedingly small plantule was easily perceived.
“ The foregoing observations evince, I, that the seeds exist in the
ovarium many days before fecundation. 2, That they remain for
snmc time solid, and then a cavity containing a liquid is formed in them.
3, That after fecundation, a body begins to appear within the cavity,
ﬁxed by two points to the sides, which in process of time proves to
be two lobes containing a plantulc. 4, That the ripe seed consists of
Mo lobes adhering to a plantule, and surrounded by a thin membrane,
0R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 233
ascend by its own purity, until it attained the summit
of all organization, the machine—Man. Here
proliﬁc nature stops :—to make man, and to make
him perfect is the end and aim of the Creator, him
self all perfection.
“ Connexion exquisite of distant worlds!
Distinguished link in beings‘ endless chain!
Midway from nothing to the Deity !“— Young.
Man was created by the Almighty from his own
substance, fashioned after his own frame; he stands
upright, and superior to every other living animal;
in his fabric may be found every other form in nature.
The type of all living things, man, in this primitive
state of his existence, was the monarch of all, both
external and internal; every atom of his body being
governed by the pure principle of attraction, was
which is itself covered with a husk or cuticle.—Spallanzani‘s Disser
tations, vol. ii. p. 253."— Dr. Darwin.
“And I have divers times taken notice in such stones as the
Bristol diamonds, that, though that part, which may be looked upon
as the upper part Of the stone, were curiously shaped, having six
smooth sides, which at the top were as it were cut oﬁ‘sloping, so as to
make six triangles, that terminated like those ofa pyramid in a vertex,
Yt'l that which may be looked upon as the root or lower part of the
stone was much less transparent (if not opacous), and devoid of any
n-gular ﬁguration; of which the reason seems to be, that this being the
part whereby the stone adhered to its womb, it was snllied by the
muddiness of it, and reduced to conform itself to whatever shape the
contiguous part of the cavity chanced to be of; whereas the upper
part of the stone was not only formed of the clearer part of the
lnpidescentjuice before the waterish vehicle was exhaled, but had room
and opportunity to shoot into the curious ﬁgure belonging to its
naturc."--Bo_ylc's Essay on Gems.
234 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
as perfect as that of his Maker. Such was animal
life in the terrestrial ovum, which had not yet
undergone gravitation; and, agreeably to Holy Writ,
God pronounced that his creation was good?“
There was nothing then remaining to be performed:
the sphere of life was complete; all things were
in a state of rest, it was the seventh day, or
sabbath of the Creator.
But what follows ? God had permitted Adam and
Eve to partake of the fruit of every tree but of that
one which grew in the midst of the garden; for, “in
the day that thou catest thereof," said He, “thou
shalt surely die.” Adam and Eve disobeying this
order, were cast out of their terrestrial Paradise, and
consigned to labour and death. Death is the loss
of that elasticity by which all animal mechanism
is cemented together; by the loss of elasticity, the
machine of man becomes disunited, or dissolved
into its component parts, and gravitation takes place;
hence the term carcass, from cado, “I fall, or
gra\'itate."+
' “ All pagan traditions embody the paradisiacal state of man in his
days of innocence and happiness, justly deeming it the age of gold.
He was an agriculturist, was nourished by simple fruits, and was
fettered by no restraints of laws or social enactments; but the scene
changed, vice and violence increased to that height, that a deluge
swept away the apostate race, and cleansed the earth. These times of
progressive corruption are marked by three metals, each deteriorating
in value."—Noles ofRameses, an Egyptian Tale.
1 Origin of the word Carcass: “ It cometh of the verb redo, which
signiﬁeth to fall; ifso, why may not the body ofa living man be also
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 235
The atmosphere of the animals contained within
the ovum was protected, by its skin or shell, from
the intrusion of blight and disease: through the
medium of that skin, the pure seeds of life were
conveyed to the community within, and the carbon
held at a distance)“ When man, by disobeying
his Creator, burst this silken bond, he was repelled,
in consequence of his own act, to the surface of the
ovum, his body became corrupt or diseased, progres
sive dissolution commenced, and he ultimately suf
fered the penalty of death.
Man did not only fall himself from purity, but
exposed the whole creation to the inroad of the
destructive principle :1- a change in the animal
so called, as Well as of a dead; for the one. is already fallen, the other
shall fall, and is falling c0ntinually."-—Petrurch's View of Human Life.
' “ The egg is covered within the shell, by a white and ﬁrm mem
brane, which contains no blood-vessels. The two layers of this mem
brane, which in other parts adhere closely to each other, leave at the
large end a space which is ﬁlled with atmospheric air. This membrane
includes the two whites of the egg, each of which is surrounded by a
delicate membrane. The external of these is the most ﬂuid and trans
parent. the inner one thicker and more opaque: they may be separated
in eggs which are boiled hard. The internal white surrounds the
yolk, which is contained in a peculiar membrane called the yolk bag."
Blumcnbuch.
1' “ If a seed be examined before germination, it will be found more
or less insipid, at least not meet ,' but after germination, it is always
sweet. lts cuagulated mucilngc, or starch, is converted into sugar in
the process ; a substance diﬂicult of solution is changed into one
easily soluble; and the sugar, carried through the cells or vessels of
the cotyledons, is the nourishment of the infant plant.”
Davy“: Agricultural Chemistry.
‘- Mr. Hunter conceived that the difference between the putrid
236 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL ancwnn,
kingdom must always be followed by that of the
vegetable and mineral: “cursed is the ground for
thy sake," said the offended Creator, “ thorns and
thistles shall it bring forth unto thee.” Man, by
his breach of the law of God involved a new creation,
commencing with the imperfection and dissolution
of matter; the seeds of disease becoming ﬁrst deve
loped in his own frame, and escaping to spread
their ravages throughout the whole mass of living
matter. All now becoming progressively corrupt,
were gradually separated from the centre, and
brought to the surface of the ovum by the new law of
repulsion, forming there a parasitical race of their
own production, which, from that moment to the
present, has preyed upon the internal machine of
the earth. The crust of this earth (like the outward
covering of crustaceous animals), has arisen from
a foreign body of corrupt matter, which does not
belong to the animal body itself, but constitutes a
and the sweet egg depended upon the inﬂuence oflife, which in the latter
counteracted the chemical afﬁnities, and prevented the matter from
falling into a putresecnt state. If then, said he, the matter of the egg
has that property of life to check and control the afﬁnities which all
matter divested of life is subject to, has it also the power of resisting
the changes of temperature? And now, upon comparing the putrid
and the living egg. he found that the latter resisted freezing; and he
thus showed that the property which resists putrefaction is allied to
the property of the animal body which preserves it in a uniform heat,
though exposed to the changes oftemperature in surrounding bodies.
We see by this that a portion of matter in an egg, or in a seed, shall
be endowed with a principle, which, however obscure, we perceive by
its efl'eets."—I'ul(v's Natural Thwl-‘gt/ illustrated by Lord Bt‘nugbum
and Sir Charles Ball.
'OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 237
class of disease by the decomposition of one or more
of the internal organs: forcing its way through the
surface or skin, this corrupt matter causes a constant
annoyance and irritation to the internal animal, and
a determination or resolution in its primary, the
heart, to eject it to the exterior, or outward boundary
of its own body. All irruptive diseases are thus
occasioned by the continual repulsion of matter
disagreeable and foreign to the nature of the animal,
causing a crust or skin of various kinds. The newly
created, or external race ofanimals, existing, ﬁrst in
the solid, then in the ﬂuid, and lastly, the aeriform
state, taking their origin in man’s body, all the sur
face of the ovum has been peopled by him. From
man’s body, the ﬁrst to oppose the perfect law of
God, have originated the seeds of corruption and
death: his creation ascends to perfect life, man’s
descends to corruption, disease, and death. Even
in the present day,
“ Frail king of dust, man loves to look around
And think,--‘ for me the elements abound
With life and motion; shade and sunshine wait
In mix'd attendance on my human state;
Light, sea, and air their glorious spell maintain,
That I alone as Lord of Earth may reign!‘
And yet, what art thou ?—but a ﬂeeting breath,
A pulse of life that throba away in death !“--R. Montgomery.
When God inﬂicted on our ﬁrst parents the
punishment of sin, He provided a means by which
they might recover the state of purity and happi
238 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
ness from which they were expelled. By the
decomposition of man’s body, we are provided with
the scum or aeriform boundary of the ovum.“F The
particles of living matter, of which this was com
posed, all gravitating to the apex or electric point,
these degraded animalculae become reunited, by
attraction, into the crystalline (or oval) form ;+ and
thus is produced a foundation-stone for the organs
of the foetal earth. Electricity taking place, this
new ovum becomes reorganized into an ascending
or perfect race, its particles, ﬁrst becoming developed
as faztuses, and lastly as locomotive animals, moving
on the surface of the newly created sphere, in the
interior of the body of our earth}; Meanwhile,
fresh decompositions being carried on from above,
gravitate to a certain distance beneath the last
° “ There is no such thing as the annihilation of an element in
nature."—ande.
't “ Diminished temperature diminishes the power of sensation, and
ﬁnally puts an end to it."—Dr. Roget. '
1 Dr. Kirby, in his introduction [0 the Bridgewater'l‘reatise,alludes
to the physiological opinions of Lamarck in the following words:
“ The production of a new organ in one of these, so formed, animal
bodies, he ascribes to a new want, which continues to stimulate; and
of a new movement which that want produces and cherishes. He
nest relates how this can be etl'ected. Body, he observes, being
essentially constituted cellular tissue, this tissue is in some sort the
matrix, from the modiﬁcation of which by the ﬂuids put in motion
by the stimulus of desire, membranes, ﬁbres, vascular canals, and
divers organs gradually appear; parts are strengthened and solidiﬁed;
and thus progressively new parts and organs are formed, and more
and more perfect organizations produced; and thus, by consequence,
in the lapse of ages monad becomes a man ll!"
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 230
formed mass, and forming a new deposit of matter,
in a latent condition, as the nucleus for another
organ enlarges the whole of the terrestrial sphere.*
(See the diagram in which A represents the centre
' “ The manner in which the pearl is supposcdtobe formed, throws
much light on this subject. With respect to the formation of the
pearl, the opinion ofReaumur, mentioned in the Memoirs of the French
Academy for 1712, is the most probable, viz. that the parts are formed
like hezoars, and other stones, in different animals, and are apparently
the eﬁ‘ects of a disease. In short, it is very evident that the pearl
is formed by an extravasation of a glutinous juice, either within the
body, or on the surface of the animal: the former case is the most
common. Between one or two hundred pearls have been found within
one oyster. Such extravasations may be caused by heterogeneous
bodies, such as sand, coming in with the food, which the animal, to
prevent disagreeable friction, covers with its glutinous matter, and
which II it is successively secreted forms many regular lamellse, in
the manner of the coats of an onion, or like diﬁcrcntstrata of bezoars,
only much thinner; this is probable; for, ifwe cut through the centre
of a pearl, we often ﬁnd a foreign particle, which ought to be consi
dered as the nucleus, or primary cause of its formation. The loose
pearls may originally have been produced within the body, and on
thiir increase may have separated and fallen into the cavity of the
sin“. Those compact ones, ﬁxed to the shells, seem to be produced
by similar extravasation, occasioned by the friction of some roughness
on the inside of the shell. These and the pearl-like nodes have a.
dill'crent aspect from the pearls, and are of a darker and bluer colour.
In the centre qfoll, [found a cosmos ran'rlchs.
“ We mayjudge with greater or lesser probability by the appearance
of the pearl-shells, whether they contain pearls or not. Those that
have a thick calcareous crust upon them, to which :erpulle (sea-tuhcs)
Tubuli mw'iai irrrgnlun'la‘ intorti, Crista-801i Cilqu lazurus, Lquu
tintinabulm, Lindrcpuree, Millipor'e, Cellipore, Gorgonlc, Spongilr, and
other zoophytes are fastened, have arrived at their full growth, and
commonly contain the best pearls; but those that appear smooth,
contain either none, or small ones only."-Accmmt of the Pearl
FiJm-y a Ceylon, by H. J. 1: Beck, Esq. communicated by Doctor
RoJIn/rg, Asiatic Researches, Vol. V.
The extraneous body, which naturally serves for the nucleus,
240 THE mscovnnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
or heart of the earth; B, C, and
D the successive depositions of
matter at the apex or nort
pole of its body.) Thus hath
every animal the twofold mode
of propagation, (analogous to
the plant;) one from the ex
ternal membrane or surface,
the other from the internal membrane or ovum,
(in the words of Dutrochet, the exosmose and
endosmose.)*
“ You look round on your mother earth,
As if she for no purpose bore you;
As if you were her ﬁrst-born birth,
And none had lived before you !"- Wordsworth.
appears to be very often, or, as Sir E. Home says, always, a blighted
ovum or egg. “ lf," says the enthusiastic baronet, “I shall prove
that this, the richest jewel in a monarch's crown, which cannot be
imitated by any art of man, either in the beauty of its form or the
brilliancy and lustre produced by a central illuminated cell, is the
abortive egg of an oyster, enveloped in its own nacre, of which it
receives annually a layer of increase during the life of the animal, who
will not be struck with wonder and astonishment I"
' “ For we see in divers chemical solutions, as of salts and other
bodies, that there are certain stages or periods of coagulation; so that,
when such a quantity of the superﬂuous moisture is exhaled, especially
upon any considerable refrigeration or other favorable circumstance,
those particles that are most disposed to coagulation will convene
and shoot into crystals, after which no more will do so, till a farther
and more considerable evaporation of the water or other menstruum
be made; upon which will ensue a new crystallization of the parts.
And I can shew you the productions of a metalline, but uncommon
solution, that I so made in an appropriated liquor, that the ﬁrst
shooting afforded me a layer or bed of curiously ﬁgured crystals, and
the following, another layer of ﬁne crystalline bodies, that have
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 241
Animals are but locomotive vegetables, Man
himself, at the head of all creative matter, is but
the active moving machine, to mould the internal
man into form and substance. He has been the
key-stone of the Whole fabric, he has united and
cemented it together, until it has progressed in
size and power from the most minute to its present
deﬁnite structure. As says the Psalmist: “My
substance was not bid from thee, when I was
made in secret and curiously wrought in the
lowest parts of the earth; thine eyes did see my
substance, yet being imperfect; and in thy book all
my members were written, which in continuance
were fashioned, when as yet there was none of
them.” Psalm cxxxix. 15, 16.
Man is the ﬁrst, and will always be the last
existing in every sphere; he has existed from
eternity, and will continue to exist for ever.
When he dies, his particles gravitate, to form the
germ or ovum of a new sphere, and his individual
body, (which is but apart of the new sphere,) when
perfectly developed, is moving upon its circumfe
rence. All matter is thus of animal origin, and the
ovum of this earth is the result of the decomposition,
fall, or gravitation of animal matter, from the supe
rior body, the sun or heart of the celestial foetus.
The matter which exists in the aeriform condition
fastened themselves to the former, but differ notably from them both
in shape and p0sture.“—- Boyle's Essay on Gems.
R
242 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
at the sun’s surface, when separated or thrown off,
resolves itself into the component parts of all animal
bodies, minute animalculaa. Of these simple forms
of life all ﬂuids consist. There is no such thing
as unorganized matter in the celestial foetus: its
solid or mineral state being the seeds, or oval
_ existence, of these simplest living machines;
these primitive materials appear to be separated
in order to be used as tools for the erection of
a new order of animal creation. The ovum of
this planet was constituted of an assemblage of
the descending or lowest species of celestial ani
mal materials, from which were produced all the
primitive or ascending classes of terrestrial exis
tence. The centre of every ovum, when it be
comes oppressed by the surrounding parts, is kept
in a continual state of combustion, constantly
emitting a part of its body in direct lines up
wards, which matter, after a certain time, gravi
tates to a new centre, where it remains stationary
till awakened to active life, in the same manner
as its predecessor. Thus is organization carried
on till the creation is completed. Matter is all
formed into concentric spheres,—-every animal
having a sphere of his own, is the monarch, and
occupies the centre of that sphere. He creates all
the beings that surround him, and they live on, and
are continually moving about, the circumference of
his body, forming spheres like to the primary
5
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 243
sphere. Thus, man’s ﬁrst triumph was over the
single drop of water, in which, we are informed,
as many animalculae exist as there are animal
beings on the surface of this now enlarged and
highly organized earth.’w Every animal existing in
the ﬁrst ﬂuid drop of water in our planet was
subjugated by man, and formed by him into oneliving
globule or mass, the solid, the ﬂuid, and the aeri
form, over which he himself presided, on the most
minute scale, in his own perfect formri'
Man, when originally organized, must have been
perfect in his nature: he was formed from the
purest. diamond. Diamond is the most pure sub
' “The recent observations of Professor Ehrenberg have brought
to light the existence of monads which are not larger than the 24,000th
of an inch, and which are so thickly crowded in the ﬂuid as to leave
intervals not greater than their own diameter. Hence he has made
the computation that each cubic line, which is nearly the bulk of a
single drop, contains 500,000,000 of these monadsl—a number which
equals that of all the human beings existing on the surface of the
globe."-—R0get’s Bridgmater Treatim, vol. 1., p. 13.
'i‘ “ The origin of man from the sun, or the etherial heavens, and
from water, are parts of an almost universal mythology, and form
two of the grand pivots on which nearly every system of ancient
idolatry appears to have turned.“—Good‘s Notes on Lucrrtius.
“ On a seal-ring of the king of 'l‘ravancor, which consists ofa very
hard and valuable stone, the following words are inscribed: Slm'
Prubnandbben. This is one of the sacred names given to Vets/mu, and
contains an allusion to the birth of that deity. Shri signiﬁes sacred,
I’m/mu denotes the Nympluza, and Nnbhm one who sits in the interior
of this ﬂower. The reader will recollect, from what has been before
said. that the Nymphml is a Symbol of water, and of every thing created
from it.“— M. Bartolomeo: (we Indian Antiquities, vol. vii. p. 793.)
R2
244 THE nrscovnny or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
stance known: it is by gravitation that it has dege
nerated into carbon. Carbonic acid gas is the
result of the combustion of diamond in oxygen, and
this gas, arising from the decomposition of animal
matter composing the surface of the earth, gravitates
to its apex, and plants the foundation-stone of the
several organs of the planet. Here then is depo
sited the black diamond in its crystalline form, as,
in the ﬁrst instance, it constituted the base of the
terrestrial ovum itself. This matter becoming, by
pressure, changed to its ﬂuid state, liberates the
diamond in its most pure and perfect form, which
ascends from the apex or point of gravity to the
opposite end of the line of gravitation, creating, by
its lcvity, a current of ascending matter through
the interior of the earth, and depositing, at a certain
distance beyond the heart or centre, a new ovum
of puriﬁed materials, in a crystalline form, con
sisting of the pure white diamond. This constitutes
the base of the brain, or moon : between the uterus,
or black diamond, and the brain or white, matter
exists in every gradation of colour, form, and quality.
The brain continues to increase in size and density,
by the acquisition of repeated layers of matter from
the same source. These are suppliEd' from the
surface of the earth to the uterus or gravitating
point, as before described. The current by which
the brain is formed and sustained, is represented in
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 245
the subjoined diagram, in which A is e
the centre or heart, B the uterus or gra~
vitating point, and C the brain or point
of extreme levity.* B
Each fresh layer, or deposit, being attracted and
absorbed by the brain, pressure or electricity in
that organ eventually took place, and it commenced
its ﬂuid or foetal stage of existence, forming, by
its repulsion of the ascending matter, a counter
current, and forcing those materials down again
towards their gravitatiug point, the uterus.
This earth, we have said, is a part or organ of
the universe. The organs of all animal bodies are
formed upon the same principle, each part being
complete in itself. The heart, uterus, and brain
exist in every portion, however minute, in the
scale of life. The heart is the ﬁrst formed, then
the uterus, which answers to the North Pole, or
lower extremity, the apex. Here gravitation
ends, and by attraction, the degraded materials
* “ If we examine the embryo of an animal in its earliest stage, we
shall still ﬁnd it to contain the rudiments of three great systems; for
it willbe seen to consist of distinct layers, one over the other, of
nmnlmmous substance, whereof the ﬁrst becomes gradually elevath
until it forms the spinal chord and brain; the second resolves itself
into the bony and muscular systems and the great viscera; and the
third into the organs of respiration, the stomach and the glands
connected with thenn Connected with the three membranes there is
a little red spot called the punctum saliens, which appears to ﬂash
with light as it alternately contracts and expands. From this is
formed the heart.“—Mr. Green's Lecture at the Royal Academy,
November l4, 1&1.
246 THE mscovnnv OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE, \
commence an ascending or superior life, (that of
the internal or celestial man.)
The living race of ascending matter in the ovum
had been propagated by the pressure of the falling
dew: but man being cast out, in consequence of his
sin, to the surface, was now reproduced on the
descending scale from himself ;"" the race multi
plying on the face of the earth, not by attraction
and addition to, but by separation from, the parent
stemrl' Man himself being ﬁrst on the list of
parasites, all the bodies produced from him, consti
tuting a class of disease, or crustacea of the internal
machine—the Earth. _
The ﬁrst germs of life, when expelled from the
interior of the ovum, became the inhabitants of
that portion of the surface most adapted to prolong
their existence: this was the upper or galvanic
end:
“ Earth fed the nursling, the warm ether cloth‘d,
And the soft downy grass his couch composed.“—Good‘s L1“ Petiux.
Man’s atmosphere, in this earliest epoch of his
* “It is clearly ascertained, that the oriparous quadrupeds are
found considerably earlier, or in more ancient strata, than those of tin
viviparous class.“—(fuvier.
1' “The ini'usoria are propagated, besides the highly probable egg
formation, not by buds as in plants, but also distinctly by Sepam
tiou."-—Prqfizssor Ehrenberg on Fossil Iq/‘uroria.
1 “M. Baillie supposed with Buﬂ'ou, Linné, and several others,
that the earth, previous to the formntion of the human race, had been
in a state of fusion; that it had gradually cooled, and that the cold
was by \ery slou and imperceptible dvgrees gradually increasing.
on, PHYsmLoev or MAN. 247
existence, must have been of a considerably ﬁner
and more pure description than in subsequent
periods, (the atmosphere being always commen
surate with the material or base whence it proceeds ;)
thus, less impediment must have existed to the
deposition of the vital stream from above. This
comparative purity of the atmosphere would occa
sion the wonderful longevity to which the patri'
archs of our race attained, prior to the ﬂood ;*
From a very close attention to the nature of the ancient mythologies,
all which are intimately connected with astronomy, they imagined
that man had been created, and that the arts and sciences had taken
their rise, not far from the arctic circle, where the earth had ﬁrst
cooled, and that they had extended southwards, as it by degrees
became more and more c0ld."—-Higgiu'l C(‘Itic Druids.
° “ It was proved long ago by Boyle, that animalp cannot live with
out air, and by Mayow that they cannot breathe the same air for any
length of time without suﬂ'ocation. Dr. Priestley and several other
philosophers have shown us, that animals live much longer in the
same quantity of oxygen gas than of common air. (‘ount Mornzzo
pheed a number of sparrows, one after another, in a glass bell ﬁlled
with common air, and inverted over water.
H. l l.
The ﬁrst sparrow lived 3 ,,
The second 3
The third 1
He ﬁlled the same glass with oxygen gas, and repeated the expe
riment. H. M.
The ﬁrst sparrow lived 5 23
The second 2 10
The third 1 30
The fourth l 10
The ﬁfth 30
The sixth 47
The seventh 27
The eighth 30
The ninth . . 22
The tenth _ . 2|
24:8 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
there being no rain before that period, for we are
told that the earth was watered by a mist, which
went up from its own surface. (Genesis, ii. 5, 6.)
Thus there could have been no thunder and light
ning to affect his health; neither do we ﬁnd any
reason to believe that men dwelt in houses, as they
have done subsequent to the deluge; so that the
solar ﬂuid must have had originally little or no
impediment to its deposition. These and many
other reasons may be given, to account for the
great age these primitive living beings attained,
which to us, their descendants, appears almost
incredibleﬁ‘
From the most minute form, man, in this earliest
period of the earth's existence, must have progressed
to the size and strength of a giant: indeed, from
both the Scripture and profane history, we learn
that man actually was a giant in those days, his frame
corresponding to the solidity of the planet on which
He then put in two together; the one died in twenty minutes, but
the other lived an hour longer."-Thu1nsm|‘s Chemistry.
" The ages of these. fathers of our race are recorded to have been
as follows, (see. Genesis, \'.):
_|/c1u s.
Adam . . . . 930
Seth . . . . 912
Enos . . . . l)05
(‘ainan . . . . 910
Mahalaleel . . . 895
Jared . . . . 962
Enoch . . . . 365
Methuselah . . , $153!!
Lamer-h . . . 777
Noah . . . 950
OR, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 249
he dweltﬂ" Organization always progressing with
its base, it is clear that, as the interior Of earth be
' “ Basides all these famous giants found in profane history, (which
I will reserve to accompany the giants of Albion, in the story of
llritany,) the Scriptures do clearly and without all allegorical con
struetion avow, that, besides Nimrod, there were found of these giants,
in the time of Abraham, of Moses, of JOshua, and of David; namely
the Rephaims in Asteroth; the Zuzmi or Zanzummims in Ham, and
the l'llnims, which dwelt anciently in the land of Moab : whom Most-s
(for stature) compareth with the Anaklms, which dwelt in Hebron;
tor they also were taken for giants as the~Anakimsz likewise, where
Moses speaketh of the land ot'Ammon, he uscth these words, that also
was lakenfur a land of giants, for giants dwelt therein qurcfimes: and
whom the Ammpnilrs call Bonzummims; a people that was great, and many
mid tall as the Anakims. And these giants,called Rephaimsﬁn Asteroth
and Kernaim, and the Zuzaai or Zanzummims, (lhedorlaomer king of
Elam overthrew, assisted by other kings, his associates. Also the
prophet Amos found among the Ammonites, men ofgiant-like stature,
whom he comparcth to the cedar, and whose strength to the oaks; and
the prophet Baruch, these were the giantsjimzousfrom the beginning that
U‘_‘!'C lfso great stalurr, and to expert in war. Particularly it is written
of ()g, king of Basan, that his bed of iron was nine cubits long, and
four eubits broad ; for only 0g king of Basan remained of the
remnants of the giants, who commanded the kingdom of Baszm, four
hundred years after the expedition of Chedorlaomer. Moreover those
discoverers and searchers of the land of promise (sent by Moses from
(Yadcsharre in Paran) made report, at their return, of the great. stature
of those people in general, and especially of the sons of Anak, in these
words, All the people which we saw in it are men of great stature ; for
ﬁlm are sum giants, the $0”: of Ana/c, which come qfthr grunts, so that we
“mud to our sights like grins-hryipcrs, and so we were in their right ; that
is, the searchers found in their own judgments a marvellous dill'erence
between the Anakimsand themselves; insomuch that the Israelites were
,0 stricken with fear, as they rather sought and desired to return again
into Egypt, and were more willing to endure their former slavery, than
to fall by the strokes of those fearful nationsv Furthermore, the
H ripturcs put us out of doubt, that Goliah the l'hilistine of (lath was
a Giant of six cuhils and a span long: the armour which he wore
“rilth ﬁve thousand sheltels of brass: the shaft of his spear was like
250 Tue DISCOVERY or rue VITAL PRINCIPLE,
came changed, frmn the solid to the ﬂuid state,
by the iron and carbon being gradually brought to
the surface of the mass, the interior must have be
come more and more leavened, the surface increased
in density. This surface must have consisted of
an elastic cement, forming the base and crust of
every living animal. Thus
“ Man‘s ﬁrst sons as o‘er the ﬁeld they trod
Renred from the hardy earth, were hardier far;
Strong built, with ampler bones, with muscles nerv‘d
Broad and substantia .“—-Good's Lurrelius.
The primitive machinery, partaking of the solidity
a weaver's beam, and his spear-head weighed six hundred shekels of
iron. Also, in Samuel there is mention of another Goliah, sirnamed
Getheus, because he was of Gath ; and ofthree other giants; of which
the ﬁrst was slain by Jehonathan, David‘s nephew, who had twelve
ﬁngers, and as many toes: a man ofgreat stature, and his ﬁngers were
by sixes, even four and twenty.
“ Also that Sampson was of surpassingr strength no man doubtelh,
who tore a lion as it had been s kid, and after slew thirty of the
Philistines, and (sheer that) a thousand more of them with a jaw-lnme
of an ass; and lastly, he took the gates of Azzah and the two posts,
and lifted them away with the bars, and put them upon his shoulders,
and carried them to the top of the mountain before Ebron. If then
it be approved by every judgment, that both nature and the heavens
was old, and that the great age of time hath (with itself) enfeehled and
almost worn out the virtue of all things, then i say, that stain all other
kinds the earth (before that sin had increased the curse and oorruption,)
brought forth her young ones more strong and beautiful than it did
in after ages, so also those giants, those mighty men, and men of
renown as far exceeded the proportion, nature, and strength of those
giants remembered by Moses of his own time, and after him their
successors, as the ordinary proportion of all men in general, soon after
the flood and in times far off, encoded the hulks and bodies of men
which are now born in the withered quarter and winter of the world :
if therefore giants were common in the third and fourth .ige, much
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 25]
of the surrounding elements, must have consisted
chieﬂy of iron and carbon; men and animals must
have been large boned and strong, their size and
strength increasing in proportion to the solid
materials acquired from the heart or centre of the
earth.
Thus, as the race diverged from the south towards
the North Pole, we ﬁnd the white diamond losing
its original purity, and passing through every
gradation in colour, until it attained the darkest
shade. It is more than probable that Noah him
self was a perfectly black man.*‘
During this embryo state of his existence, the
mind of man must likewise have gradually attained
a completely darkened state: while an inhabitant of
the pure centre of the ovum, his light and heat
were derived from its internal source; but when
more in the ﬁrst ﬂourishing youth and newness of the world. But
the wickedness (especially in cruelty and oppression) ofthese men was
such, as God therefore by the ﬂood gave end to all ﬂesh, but to the
just Noah and his family."-—-Sir Walter Ralegll‘s History ofthe World.
° Mr. Pinkerton, speaking of the interior of Borneo, of which little
is known, says, “ These wild countries are peopled with an inﬁnite
number of monkeys, besides the Orang Hoetans: these real satyrswalk
on their hind legs, and have a perfect resemblance of mankind ; other
species are found white as snow, and some entirely black.“ ° ‘ " This
animal “ is said to light a ﬁre by blowing with its mouth, to broil
ﬁsh, and boil rice; so that man is not the only cooking animal."
“ The ancient Egyptians were real negroes, of the same species with
all the natives of Africa; and though, as might be expected, after
mixing for so many ages with the Greeks and Romans, they have lost
the intensity of their ﬁrst colour, yet they still retain strong marks
of their original coul'ormation."-Volne_1/.
252 THE DISCOVERY or TnE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
expelled to the surface of the mass, he became sub
jcet to the darkness of the region in which he was
placed: his light was now obtained from the stars
aloneﬁ‘ of the sun he must have known far less
than we now do in the coldest winter; being wholly
unacqnainted with the seasons, as subsequently
developed by the earth in its rotation round that sun;
his existence identiﬁed with an apparently minute
portion of the earth on which he dwelt; his mind,
chained to the objects immediately around, was in
ferior, by very many degrees, to the capacity of
those black races now in existence, commonly
deemed so nearly on a level with the brute creation.
The animals around man being also natives of this
darkened sphere must have been tame and easy of
control, ignorant of the ﬁerce passions, by which they
have been animated, since the general dclugeri'
‘ Beetles and animals which never approach daylight are almost
totally black.
“Were it not for the reﬂective and scattering power of the atmos
phere no objects would be visible to us out of direct sunshine; every
shadow of a passing cloud would be pitchy darkness; the stars would
be visible all day, and every apartment. into which the sun had not
direct admission, would be involved in norturnal obscurity."
Sir J. Herschel on ,Jstronmny—Cubinet Cycloprrdiu.
1 Captain Cook gave the following account of the animals at Staten
Island, near Cape Horn.-—“The sea-bears are not so large, by far, as
the lions, but rather larger than a common seal. They have none
of that long hair which distinguishes the lion. Theirs is all of an
equal length, and ﬁner than that of the lion, something like an
otter‘s, and the general colour is that of iron-grey. This is the
kind which the French call sea-wolves, and the English seals; lhey
are, however, different from the seals in Europe and Noth Amerira.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 25:;
Darkness is the cause of all deformity, of both mind
and body;* we may, therefore, easily account for
the singular monumental ﬁgures of the Egyptians,+
The lions may too, without any great impropriety, be called mer
grown seals; for they are all of the same species. It was not at all
dangerous to go among them; for they either ﬂed or lay still. The
only danger was in going between them and the sea; for if they took
fright at any thing, they Would come down in such numbers, that, if
you could not get out of their way, you would be run over.
“ it is amazing to see how the diﬂ'erent animals which inhabit this
place are mutually reconciled. They seem to have entered into a
iﬂtgde not to disturb each other's tranquillity. The sea-lions occupy
most of the coast; the sea-bears take up their abode in the Isle; tln
stags have post in the highest cliﬁ‘s; the penguins ﬁx their quarters
where there is the most easy communication to and from the sea; and
th- other birds choose more retired places. (‘aptain (look say s, he
has s1 en all these animals mix together like domestic cattle and
(poultry in a farm-yard, without one attempting to molest the other."
' Efren of Darkness in Producing qubrmity.—“ A correspondent
writes us the following curious fact. There are about the French
metropolis a number of beggars, twelve or thirteen of them at least,
all deformed in various ways; all were born at Lille, in certain dark
caverns under the fortiﬁcation. The effect of these places, from
their want of light, producing malformed births, is so notorious.
that the magistrates of Lille have issued strict orders to prohibit the
poor from taking up their abode in them. It is added by our cor
respondent, that he had aconversation with Mr. Edwards on the
subject, and that gentleman was greatly struck with the conﬁrmation
which the above circumstances aﬂ'ord to his views, stated in his
u ork Sur 1' Inﬂuence dc: Agni: Physiqucs sur 1‘ Homme. Mr. Edwards‘
experiments of detaining tadpoles in darkness, and thus causing them
to grow into gigantic and motionless tadpoles, instead of being
transformed into frogs, are well kuown."—Mr,riiml Gazette.
y “Learmd men may be permitted to employ their time and ingo
unity in attempts to decipher the mystic knowledge contained under
1|“; fur-m of the Sphynx of Thebes, the Pegasus of Thessaly, the
Minotaur of Crete, or the Chimera of Epirus; but it would be folly
to expect seriously to ﬁnd such monsters in nature. We might as
well endeavour to ﬁnd the animals of Daniel. or the bcasts of the
254 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
and other ancient races, which, appearing to us as
mutilations, must be real types of the beings which,
A pocalypse, in some hitherto unexplored recesses of the globe.“
“ Neither can we look for the mythological animals of the Persians,—
creatnres of a still bolder imagination,—such as the marriclwre, or
destroyer of men, having a human head on the body ofa lion, and the
tail of a scorpion; the grifﬁn, or guardian of hidden treasures, half
eagle and half lion; or the cartasonon, or wild ass, armed with a long
horn on its forehead.“-—Cuvier.
“ It is shown that animals formerly existed on the globe, being
nnknown varieties of species still known; but it also appears that
species existed, and even genera, wholly unknown for the last ﬁve
thousand years. These peopled the earth, as it was, not before the
general deluge, but before wmc convulsion long prior to that event had
overwhelmed the countries 'n-isN DRY, and raised others from the
bottom of the sea. in these curious enquiries, we are conversant not
merely with the world before the ﬂood, but with a world which,
before the ﬂood, was covered with water, and which in far earlier ages,
had been the habitation of birds, and beasts, and reptiles. We are
carried, as it were, several worlds back, and we reach a period when
all was water, and slime, and mud; and the waste, without either man
or plants. gave resting place to enormous beasts, like lions and
elephants, and river horses ; while the water was tenanted by lizards,
the size of a whale, sixtyor seventy feet long, and by others with huge
eyes, having shield: of solid bone to protect them, and glaring from a
neck ten feet in length; and the air was darkened by ﬂying reptiles
covered with scales, opening the jaws of the crocodile, and expanding
wings, armed at the tips with the claws of the leopard.“
Pulcy's Natural Theology, illustrated by Lord Brougham.
“ A short time since, a cavern was discovered in England, which
contained prodigious numbers of hyenas, of all ages, and in the soil
even the cxcrements were plainly to be recognized. They must have
lived there for a long period, and they had dragged into their cave the
bones of the elephants, rhinosceroses, hippopotami, horses, oxen, deer,
and of various glires which are there mingled with their own remains,
and bore evident marks of the tooth of the hyenas. But what must
have been the soil of England when these enormous animals served as
prey to these ferocious beasts Z"—Cuvir:r.
“That the face of the globe has successively undergone total
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. "55
~
at that period, existed in nature. “The stranger
who visits the gallery of sculpture in the British
Museum, cannot fail to be struck with the curious
collection of objects in the room of the Egyptian
antiquities. Passing from the contemplation of the
almost faultless representations of the human form
in marble, the triumph of Grecian art, he comes to
ﬁgures more remarkable from their singular forms
and colossal size, than for their beauty. Though
the contrast between what he has just left, and the
scene to which he is introduced, creates, at ﬁrst
sight, no pleasing impression, feelings of curiosity
changes at diﬂ'ereut remote epochs is now a fact beyond all dispute;
asalso, that, long anterior to the creation of man, this world was
inhibited by races of animals, to which no parallels are now to be
found; and those animals themselves only made their appearance
after the lapse of ages, during which no warm-blooded creatures had
an existence. It has been further remarked by zoologists, that the
animals which ﬁrst appeared in these latitudes, were analogous to
such as now inhabit tropical regions exclusively; and that it was
only at a period immediately before the creation of the human race,
that species similar to those of the existing era began to appear in
northern latitudes. Similar pece-iarities have been also found to
mark the Vegetation of corresponding periods. It would hardly be
credited, by persons unacquainted with the evidence upon which such
facts repose, that, in the most dreary and desolate northern regions
of the present day, there once ﬂourished groves of tropical plants of
Conifer-m, like the Northfolk Island and Araucanian pines, of bananas,
tree ferns, huge cacti, and palms; that the marshes were ﬁlled with
rush-like plants, ﬁfteen or twenty feet high; thecoverts with ferns like
the undergrowth of a. West Indian island; and the vegetation, thus
inconceivably rich and luxuriant, grew amidst an atmosphere that
would have been fatal to the animal world. Yet nothing can thl
be more certain, than that such a description is for from being over
charged."—Lindlcy and Horton's Fossil Flora.
256 Tim mscovsnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
and admiration soon arise from a more careful
examination of what is around him. The colossal
dimensions in which some ﬁgures are exhibited,
the hardness of the materials employed, and the
strange combination of the human and the
animal form, all unite in exciting an intense desire
to know in what country, and in what age of the
world, such marvellous specimens of the human
race were produced. When he is told that these
are but a few examples of the wonderful works that
still exist in Egypt; that other European capitals,
(Rome, Turin, Paris, and Berlin,) have all their
galleries enriched from the same source, or their
public places ornamented by them; that the ancient
tombs and temples of that country still furnish
inexhaustible materials to enrich our museums, and
gratify the curiosity of the antiquary—he will at
once perceive that a more knowledge of the names
assigned to these pieces of stone would convey no
information at all, and that any description of them
must be unintelligible, if it does not connect with
the country from which they come, and the monu
ments of which they are part.“
' Captain Cook, in his Voyage towards the South Pole, relates
that on the east side of Easter Island, near the sea, “ they met with
three platforms of stonework, or rather the ruins of them. On each
had stood four of those large statues. but they were all fallen down
from two of them, and also one from the third; all except one were
broken by the fall, or in some measure defaced. Mr. Wales measured
this one, and found it to be fifteen feet in length, and six feet broad
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 257
It is more than probable, that, when the _whole
mass of this earth became loosened from its situa
over the shoulders. Each statue had on its head a large cylindric
stone of a red colour, wrought perfectly round. The one they
measured, which was not by far the largest, was ﬁfty-two inches high
and sixty-six feet in diameter. In some. the upper corner of the cylin
der was taken oﬂ'in a sort of concave quarter round, but in others the
cylinder was entire. They observed that this side of the island was
full of those gigantic statues so often mentioned; some placed in
groupes on platforms of masonry; others single, ﬁxed only in the
earth, and that not deep, and these latter are, in general, much
larger than the others. Having measured one, which had fallen down,
they found it very near twenty-seven feet long, and upwards of eight
feet over the breast or shoulders; and yet this appeared considerably
shert of the size of one they saw standing: its shade, a little past two
o‘clock, being sullit lent to shelter all the party, consisting of nearly
thirty persons, from the rays of the sun.
“The gigantic statues, so often mentioned, are not, (continues
Captain Cook,) in my opinion, looked upon as idols by the present
inhabitants, whatever they might have been in the days of the Dutch;
at least, lsaw nothing that could induce me to think so. On the
contrary, I rather suppose that they are burying-places for certain
tribes or families. I, as well as some others, saw a human skeleton
lying in one of the platforms, just covered with stones. Some of these
platforms of masonry are thirty or forty feet long, twelve or sixteen
broad, and from three to twelve in height; which last in some measure
depends on the nature of the ground. For they are generally at the
brink of the bank facing the sea; so that this face may be ten or twelve
f-~-t or more high, and the other may not be above three or four.
They are built, or rather faced, with hewn stones of a very large size;
and the workmanship is not inferior to the best plain piece of masonry
we have in England. They use no sort of cement; yet the, joints are
exceedingly close, and the stones morticed and tenauted one into
another, in a very artful manner. The side walls are not perpen
dicular, but inclining a little inwards, in the same. manner that breast
works. 8w. are built in Europe : yet had not all this care. pains, and
sa-garity, been able to preserve these curious structures from the
ravages of all devouring lime.
“ The statues, or at least many ofthem, are erected on these plat
S
258 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
tion by the general deluge, the elastic ﬂuid element
covered every living animal, and, enveloping them
within its grasp, converted them into one petriﬁed
substance} and thus that the ﬁgures or monuments
forms, which serve as foundations. They are, as near as we could
judge, about half length, ending in a sort of stump at the bottom, on
which they stand. The workmanship is rude, but not bad; nor are
the features of the face ill formed, the nose and chin in particular; but
the ears are long beyond proportion; and, as to the bodies, there is
hardly any thing liken human ﬁgure about them.
“Ihad an opportunity of examining only two or three of these
statues, which are near the landing-place; and they were of a grey
stone, seemingly of the same sort as that with which the platforms
were built. But some of the gentlemen, who travelled over the
island, and examined many of them, were of opinion that the stone of
which they were made, was diﬂ'erent from any other they saw on the
island, and had much the appearance of being factitious. If the stones
are factitious, the statues might have been put together on the place,
in the present position, and the cylinder put on by building a mount
round them, as above mentioned. But, let them have been madeand
set up by this or any other method, they must have been a work of
immense time, and sulﬁeiently shew the ingenuity and perseverance
of the islanders in the age in which they were built, for the present
inhabitants have most certainly had no hand in them, as they do not
ever repair the foundations of those which are going to decay. They
give different names to them, such as Gotomoarn, Marapate, Kanajo,
Goway-too-goo, Matta Matta, &c. Sac. ; to which they sometimes
preﬁx the word Moi, and sometimes annex Areelree. The latter
signiﬁes Chief; and the former, Burying, or Sleeping-place, as well
as we could understand."--Captuin Cook's Voyage to the South Pole.
" Lupidcsrmt Juices—“Among the kinds of these liquors,“ says
Mr. Boyle, in his Essay on Gems, “i have observed a sort that is of
so ﬁne a substance, and yet of so petrifyinga. virtue, that it will
penetrate and petrify bodies of very different kinds; and yet srarcey
it' at all, visibly increase their bulk, or change their shape or colour.
To which purpose. I remember, that I have seen divers animal and
vegetable substances so petriﬁed. as scarce at all to be taken notire
of by their appearance, to have been altered by the operation of the
“_ - _____ _ iv ,,,_ _>
*~»<__ _. _____M_ s__r_.—_-_- -_- ,.__ __,-4
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 259
dug out of the earth subsequent to the ﬂood, and
supposed to have been modelled by the ancients,
petrescent liquor. I have with pleasure seen a thin cream-cheese
tui ned into stone, when the size, shape, and colour even of the wrinkles,
and the blueish mould, (which, it seems, it began to have when the
liquor invaded it,) were so Well preserved, that an hungry man would
not have scrupled to have fallen upon it for a good bit. And, as
for the hardness that this petreseent juice can give to the body that it
penetrates, I shall now only remind you of what i lately told you:
that I have had, (and l think yet have, in another place,) a pretty
quantity of wood petriﬁed in England, which retaining its former
figure, and grain, and scarce at all visibly increased in bulk, was so
very hard, that I could make impressions with it upon iron, and
glass itself, and make it strike ﬁre like an excellent ﬂint. To
which I shall here add, that the stony parts did not suﬁ'er the wood,
which they had penetrated, to be reduced in the ﬁre, either to ashes
or charcoal. And [have by me a lump of mineral substances, wherein
a petrescent liquor, that ﬁlls the large intervals between them, is
transparent enough, and harder than most stones, as far as we could
guess by some trial of it made by a skilful engraver of gems. And
to these instances might be adduced many others, if it did not by these
few sufﬁciently appear, that petriﬁed agents may insinuate themselves
into the pores of various bodies, and turn them into stone, without
otherwise destroying their pristine nature, or so much as their former
ﬁgure.“
“ An American mass of iron was discovered by some Indians in the
district of Santiago del Estero in the midst of a. wide extended plain.
It projected about a foot above the ground, and almost the whole of
its upper surface was visible; and the news of its being found in a.
country where there were no mountains, nor even the smallest stone
within a circumference of 100 leagues, could not but be very surprising.
Though the journey was attended with great danger, on account of
the want ofuwter, and abundance of wild beasts in these dcsarts, some
prim“; persons, in hopes of gain, undertook to visit this mass; and
having accomplished their journey, sent a specimen of the metal to
Lima and Madrid, where it was found to be very pure soft iron.
“ As it was reported that this mass was only the extremity of an
immense vein of the metal, a commission was given to Don Michael
s2
260 "rue DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
are not monuments of art, but the real petriﬁed
animals themselves. This is why we ﬁnd all these
Rubin dc Celis to examine the spot, and the following is an abstract
of his account.
“"I‘he place is called Olin/1M, in lat. 2'7 ‘23 8, and the mass was
found almost buried in pure clay and ashes. Externally it had the
appearance of very compact iron; but internally was full of cavities,
as if the whole had been formerly in a liquid state. I was conﬁ rmed
in this idea (says our author) by observing, on the surface of it, the
impression of human feet and hands of a large size, as “ ell as the feet
of large birds, which are common in this country. Though these
impressions seem very perfect, yet I am persuaded that they are either
a lusus nutmre, or that impressions of this kind were previously upon
the. ground, and that the liquid mass of iron falling upon it received
them. It resembled nothing so much as a. mass of dough; which,
having been stamped with impressions of hands and feet. and marked
with a ﬁnger, had afterwards been converted into iron. _
“ ‘ On digging round the mass, the under surface was found covered
with a coat of scorim from four to six inches thick, undoubtedly
occasioned by the moisture of the. earth, because the upper surface was
clean. No appearance of generation was observed in the earth below
or round it to a great distance. About two leagues to the eastward
is a brackish mineral spring, the only one to be met with in all the.
country. Here there was a very gentle ascent, of between four and
six feet in height, running from north to south; all the rest being as
perfect a low] as can be imagined. The earth in every part about
this spring, as well as near the mass, is very light, loose, and greatly
resembling ashes, even in colour. The grass of the adjacent parts is
very short, small, and extremely unpalatable to cattle; but that at a
distance is long and extremely grateful to them: from all which cir
cumstances it is probable that this mass was produced by a volcanic
explosion. lts weight might be estimated at about 300 qiiinmlg, [g
is likewise an undoubted fact, that in these forests there exists a mass
of pure iron in the shape ofa tree with its branches.‘ "—Ency. Brit.
Geological Discovery in the United Slrtlcs.—-“ lt maybe interesting to
antiquaries and the curious to be informed that two scientiﬁc gentle
men, viz., Mr. theater, of England, and Mr. Davis, of Philadelphia,
have recently discovered in a care, on or near the Great Laurel Ridge
of the (“timberland Mountains, three entire petriﬁed bodies: one ofa
OR, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 26]
hicroglyphical ﬁgures clustered together, apparently
ﬂying for protection to their homes.
“ A part how small of the terraqueous globe
ls tenanted by man! the rest a waste,
Rocks, deserts, frozen seas and burning sands,
Wild haunts of monsters, poisons, stings, and death;
Such is earth‘s melancholy map !“— Young.
Man, as he receded from the source of life,
dog lying ﬂat upon the rock, and two of men, one sitting and the
other standing, with a spear balanced in his hand. Preparations were
making to forward their bodies to New York. The Hamilton
(Tennessee) Observer remarks that among the many natural curiosities
found in the extensive caves and grottos in the vicinity of the Great
Laurel Ridge (Cumberland Mountains,) many human skeletons and
bones of animals have been discovered, some of them in a petriﬁed
state. These caves abound in prodigious vaulted apartments and
chambers, which, when viewed by torch-light, exhibit scenes of
g‘nomy grandeur which astonish the beholder. Several petriﬁed
trees have also been discovered on the banks of the river near this
ridge, as also bones of mammoths and other animals, whose races are
now extinct. A private correspondent writes in his letter to a learned
institution, that the wonderful discovery which will now shortly be
presented to the public, is three petriﬁed bodies entire, one of a dog,
and two human bodies, one of them holding a spear. It is believed
by the gentlemen who found them that all three bodies may be
removed from their position in a perfect state, though the dog being
in a lying posture upon a ﬂat rovk, it n ill undoubtedly be a difﬁcult
task to remove it uninjured. The human bodies appear to be those
of men, probably hunters. Their clothing can hardly be distinguished,
but still it is evident that that, too, was in a measure turned into
stone. They are described thus z—One sitting, with the head leaning,
as it were, against a projecting rock; and the other standing, with a
spear balanced in his hand, as though he was surprised, and bad just
started in a quick walk. The dog lies as if crouched in terror, or
about to make a spring; but the features or body are not distinct
enough to determine which position. This wonderful formation
cannot be accounted for in any other way than that these persons were
buried by some terrible convulsion of nature. The cave in “lilt'lt
262 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
must not only have degenerated in colour, but in
form and quality; losing his primitive whiteness,
purity, and levity; becoming, by degrees, more and
more estranged from the perfect laws of his Creator,
diseased in body, and corrupt in mind, until he
became ﬁnally solidiﬁed by the sudden gravitation
attending the general catastrophe, and once more
united to the elements from which he had been
produced. The Scriptures inform us, that, prior to
the ﬁnal destruction of man, “God saw that the
wickedness of man was great in the earth, and
that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart
was only evil continually. And it repented the
Lord that he had made man upon the earth, and it
grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will
destroy man whom I have created from the face of
the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping
thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me
that I have made them."—Genesis, vi. 5-7. “ The
earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth
was ﬁlled with violence. And God looked upon
the earth, and, behold, it was very corrupt; for
all ﬂesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.
And God said unto Noah, the end of all flesh is
they were found is full 125 feet into the mountain, and is situated
about a mile and a half beyond what is called Mammoth Grotto, in a.
direct line. The entrance to the place is difﬁcult, and it is thought
that it was never before attempted. At the foot of the entrance of
the cave is a considerable brook of water, which appears to gather
from all parts of it."—-l\'tu'.spal/cr paragraph, April 30, 1837.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 263
come before me,for the earth isﬁlled withpiolence,
THROUGH THEM; and, behold, I will destroy them
with the earth.”—-Genesis, vi. 13.
Let us enquire into the manner in which the
deluge, or sudden overﬂowof the waters of our globe,
was produced.
All exhalations from the body of the earth and
seas, forming an atmosphere, have been, by our
scientiﬁc men, considered to return to the earth
again. No opinion, in my mind, can be more
erroneous. Every living particle of matter, whether
in the shape of a planet, vegetable, or an animal,
creates its own atmosphere, and that atmosphere
will increase with the increase (or enlargement) of
the body that ﬁrst produced it. Now the increase
of that atmosphere cannot take place, if the matter
exhaled from the planet, vegetable, or animal be
again returned to it. \Ve all, I believe, know that
the living animal eﬁ‘luvia does not return to the
body again. If, indeed, by neglect, it should be
suﬂ‘ered to adhere to the surface of the body,
disease must be the inevitable consequence. The
same law holds good in the mineral and vegeta
ble kingdoms. When our earth’s atmosphere is
clouded and condensed, neither animal nor vegetable
can enjoy health. The chief cause of disease and
death is the condensation of the atmosphere. All
Home and vapour, or steam, rise upwards; nor can
any force or pressure make the atmosphere of any
264 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
body gravitate or descend, until the elastic principle
of that body he changed. This can never be
accomplished but by electrical combustion. From
the power of electricity, solids are converted into
ﬂuids, ﬂuids into vapour or steam, and vapour or
steam again into water: thus alone is matter
allowed to return to its ﬁrst element, the earth”
Mr. VVhewell, speaking on this subject in the Bridge
water Treatises, says “ the total quantity of air, of
which our atmosphere is composed, is another of
the arbitrary magnitudes of our terrestrial system.
We can see no reason why the atmosphere might
not have been larger in comparison to the globe
which it surrounds; those of Mars and Jupiter
appear to be so. But if the quantity of air were
increased, the structure of organised beings would
in many ways cease to be adapted to their place.
The atmospheric pressure, for instance, would be
increased, which, as we have already noticed, would
require an alteration in the structure of vegetables."
The atmosphere is always regulated by the body
whence it proceeds, changes with its changes, and
progresses with it. The altered structure of animals
or vegetables would be the cause of the changes of
theiratmosphere, and not (as MLVVhewell observes)
dependant upon them. As the human race dege
nerated, so did the atmosphere, proceeding from
’ Boyle savs \‘ery justly that “ even a metallinc body. and therefore
much more a wgetable or animal, may, by ﬁre, be turned into wan-1."
0R,PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 265
m'T—Ei-m‘ﬁ' . - V 7 ——.-
their own bodies, become progressively corrupt;
thus an impediment was created to the daily descent
of the celestial or solar matter: this matter only
being allowed to reach the surface of the earth by
the force of electrical combustion or pressure,
the intervening atmosphere became clouded and
compressed, disease, as I have before said, being
the natural result both to body and mind. A pro
gressive dissolution of the elements was the ﬁnal
consequence.
The original formation of the moon, or brain, by
the ascent of matter to the point of extreme levity,
has already been explained. After a certain
quantity of these materials had been absorbed or
accumulated into one condensed focus, any fresh
deposition must have become repugnant to its nature.
When, therefore, by the increased gravitation carried
on upon the surface of the earth, a superabundant
supply was conveyed by the apex to the interior or
ascending current,oppression must have commenced
in proportion to that superabundance at the extreme
point of ascension—the brain or moon.* Thus the
electric spark was elicited in the centre of that
organ, a counter-current commencing for the ﬁrst
time by its rejecting or repelling back towards its
own body the. earth, downward layers of its own fluid
materials: these layers becoming puriﬁed by the
' The moon bears the same analogy to the earth as the heat] to
the human foetus.
266 THE DISCOVERY OF THE vrru. PRINCIPLE,
current from beneath, reascend to their point of
lcvity or apex, converting the brain from the oval
to the cordiform shape. At the point of levity,
these materials, being united, are reorganized, and
descend again through the centre of the brain, in
a current or stream precisely opposed to the
ascending one from the heart, ,
(see diagram, in which A re- A
presents the moon, and B the ( \>
earth.) From this moment com- ‘ Q/
pression on the heart must have
commenced: a kind of medium [Al
/§i
i>/)
//'
(I.
being formed between the moon n
and earth by the opposing cur»
rents, electrical combustion en
sued, and an exchange of ma
terials was the result. The
earth's matter escaping in the V
gaseous form to the moon, that of the moon des
cending to the earth in the ﬂuid stateﬁ" Hence a
gradual accumulation of this returned matter in
the heart or centre of the earth, the quantity
increasing with the increased organization of the
brain above, and the ascending current from
beneath, until it eventually became too powerful
" “In warm climates, the deposition of dewy moisture on animal
substances hastens their putrefaction. As this is apt to happen only
in clear nights, it was anciently supposed that bright moonshine
favoured animal c0rruption."-—-Dr. l’re.
on, PHYSIOLOGY .or MAN. 267
for restraint, when it burst forth from the womb of
its parent, and became one living ﬂuid ocean.
This matter overﬂowing the sides of the earth,
would gradually form a crystalline boundary or
case, at a certain distance above the earth’s surface:
as this boundary increased in density, it would
cause an added gravitation on the surface, by at
ﬁrst a partial, and eventually a total, exclusion of
the solar rays. The continued force of pressure
from the matter deposited by the sun, must have
increased in proportion with the increase of the
matter upon which it acted; the added gravitation
of the matter worked upon by this external pressure,
leavening the whole internal mass, and working
its way upwards, would melt gradually the crys
talline materials on the summit: eventually the
whole of the upper portion of the earth would attain
a perfectly boiling state: the outer ridge or case
of ice, like the rim of bubbles on the surface of
boiling water, would be set in motion and dissolved,
gravitating, for the ﬁrst time, in the form of rain,
and thus boiling over the sides of the earth, would,
by its inundation, occasion the devastation and
destruction which really took place at the general
deluge. The effect of this sudden gravitation
towards the terrestrial apex or electric point,
added to the process already described to have
taken place at the magnetic or galvanic end of the
line, with other circumstances, (see page 49 of this
268 THE mseovnav or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
work,) would occasion the sudden detachment of
the whole mass of the earth from the bond which
conﬁned it to the sun, causing it to turn round by
the weight of its own body, and to present its
apex or lower extremity to that luminary.""
The earth, in every point of its orbit round the
sun, still preserves its apex or North Pole, pointing
to that luminary, and this is evidently the reason
why the inhabitants of the North Pole have always
six months’ winter and six months’ summer in their
year. It is a remarkable proof of the wisdom and
foresight of the Creator, that this, the coldest
portion of our globe, should be always nearest to
the sun, while the opposite extremity of the earth's
axis, the South Pole, enabled by its own capacity to
radiate heat, is the part placed farthest distant
from his rays.
The planet having attained the perfection of its
primary state of existence, having become quick
ened by external and internal pressure, revolved,
for the ﬁrst time, upon its axis and orbitﬁ~ still
limited in its motion to a determined sphere, but
' Anaxagoras believed “that as soon as the world was made, and
living creatures produced out of the world, the world inrlinul qfitirff
towards the south, according to Divine Providence; that some part
thereof might be habitable, others not habitable by rensnn of the
extremities of 'H'Ut and cold."—Stunlqy's Liresr
“It is computed that, had the earth received its motion from a
single impulse, that impulse must have passed through a point about
twenty-ﬁve miles from its centre.“—-Mrs. Swmrvillr.
'l' “ The action of a galvanic \vire upon a magnet is not to altrarl
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 269
one grade higher in the scale of life. Commenc
ing its course from the freezing point, (see the
diagram, in which b'lm'm'
E
A is the earth, and
B the sun,) the
earth ascends at a
prescribed distance . :1 >
b»
s §§<
from the sun, 5 [A'
‘5
through the pro
gressive degrees of
heat in its orbit,
until it attains the
boiling point of "aim
the universe E, and thence gradually descends by
decreased temperature to the place, D, whence it
ﬁrst set out; having completed the ﬁrst of a regular
series of revolutions around the sun,* the heart or
centre of the animal foetus—our universe. All
gradations of temperature, within the celestial
or repel it, but to turn it to the right and Zlft,‘ to produce motion
not to orfrom, but transverse to the line drawn to the acting particles."
Whewell, B. Treatises.
“ Mr. Adam Walker supposes the earth and planets to be turned on
their axes by the impulse of light! He says that in all the positions
in which the earth stands to the sun, during its annual revolution
round him, it will be found that more rays fall on one side ofits axle
and centre, than on the other."
' “ It is generally conjectured that the ﬁrst object of idolatrous
deiﬁcation aﬁer the ﬂood, was the sun; that every species of Pagan
theology has originated from solar worship; and that the name of
every deity and fabulous hero of the oriental world, as well as of those
imported thence into Greece, is referable to the sun himself, or to some
rile or ceremony appertaining to solar worship.“—Nnrex 1m Lucretius.
270 THE DISOOVRRY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
foetus, being regulated by the sun, the earth, in
its progressive revolution, experiences the four
seasons of the year in succession: thus, on the
retreat of its waters, after the deluge, the planet
may be supposed to bud forth as it entered into the
spring quarter)“ to progress thence to the summer
or universal harVest, to decline into autumn with
the falling leaf, and ﬁnally to relapse into the seve
rity of winter: like man, in this vegetable state of
his existence, having a birth, a rise, decline, and fall;
the end of one revolution being the commencement
of a new and improved series of vital phenomena.
“ Look nature through, ‘tis revolution all;
All change, no death. Day follows night; and night
The dying day; stars rise, and set, and rise;
Earth takes th‘ example. See the snuuner gay,
With her green chaplet, and ambrosial flow‘rs,
Droops into pallid autumn: winter grey,
Horrid with frost, and turbulent with storm,
Blows autumn and his golden fruits away;
Then melts into the spring: soft spring, with breath
Favonian, from warm chambers of the south,
Recalls the ﬁrst. All, to reﬂourish, fades;
As in a wheel, all sinks, to re-ascend,
Emblems of man, who passes, not expires.“—— Young.
The earth does not pursue alone the track I have
' “ It is highly probable, indeed, that the Roman bards are right in
their conjecture, that spring was the ﬁrst season of the rising world.
The superior fecundity of this quarter of the year justiﬁes the belief,
though no philosophic fact can be adduced to corroborate it. The
commentators on the sacred writings are divided upon the question :
fur the civil and ecclesiastical year among the Hebrews began at
different and indeed opposite periods ; the former commencing at the
autumnal equinox, as We learn from Exod. xxiii. 16. and xxxiv. 22;
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 27l
described: the moon accompanies its course around
the sun. Hitherto the brain had preserved, by its
power, an equilibrium between the sun and earth,
but the line of connexion being new severed, the
moon would gravitate or turn round by its own
weight, presenting its apex or electric point to the
earth, and commencing from its original position
(the boiling point, D,) arevolution the heart
of its own minute sys- "'n ‘
tern, (see the diagram in ' 4
which A represents the
moon, and B the earth,) .
would pass at the ap
pointed distance, in
succession, through
every degree of cold to r of
the freezing point C, n,(_);/_f_
and then reascend, through the gradual increase of
heat, to the boiling point A, whence it in the ﬁrst
instance gravitated. The moon, in its revolution
around the earth, experiences the variations of
the seasons on the minute scale, as that body ’does
on the more extensive one, of the universe. It also
causes the ﬂux and reﬂux of the tides: when it is
Aillumn
\i
l
v
and the latter at the vernal, as particularly commanded in Exod. xii.
2. At one of the equinoxes, however, it seems universally admitted
that. the earth ﬁrst began to be inhabited; and most probably, as
before observed, at the vernal."-—.lfr. Good‘s Notes on Lucretius.
It in natural to conclude that spring. which even new clothes the
trees with their leaves, must have been the ﬁrst season of the rising
earth.
6
272 THE DISCOVERY or rue vrrar. PRINCIPLE,
between the earth and sun it draws the earth’s
waters with redoubled force towards the apex of
the earth, by adding to the electrical powers situ
ated there: when in the opposite part of its orbit, it
acts as a counter current, and draws them off in
an opposite direction.
It is worthy of remark in this place, that the
inferior and superior lives are carried on, as it were,
in opposition to each other. The earth was formed
at the freezing point of the universe, and moved from
thence; it is the inferior machine: the moon, on
the other hand, is the superior or celestial machine
of the earth, and was formed in the ﬁrst instance at
the boiling point, from which it eventually moved.
The earth radiates upwards, the moon downwards.
This will be made fully evident when we treat further
upon the third life of the perfect man.
“ By the warm sun
Sustained, and eherish'd, earth renews her fruits,
And man and beast survive."—-Lucretius.
This newly acquired motion on its axis and orbit,
by removing the earth from the continued winter,
in which it had hitherto languished during the oval
period of its existence, in a state of comparative
darkness, sterility, and repose, must have produced
an entirely new era in organization; every variety
of colour, form, and quality being produced in turn
on the earth’s surface, by its exposure to the varied
degrees of light and temperature in the fresh fuel
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 273
daily deposited by the sun, which, upon the earth,
from its
“ Mantle‘s radiant liems
Drops pearls, drops emeralds as she winds."
Plants and animals, becoming progressively
more perfect and beautiful in structure, and each
species being suitable to the local situation of the
earth, in reference to the sun) the external crea
tion has at length acquired the magniﬁcent and
harmonized appearance which is offered to our con
templation in the present period.
Darkness, coldness, and death are inactive pro
"‘ “ The length of the year is so determined as to be adapted to the
constitution of most vegetables: or the construction of vegetables is
so adjusted as to be suited to the length which the year really has;
and unsuited to a duration longer or shorter by any considerable
portion. The vegetable clock-work is so set as to go for a year.“
“ If we consider the time of putting forth leaves, the honey-suckle
protrudes them in the month of January; the gooseberry, currant,
and elder, in the end of February or beginning of March; the willow,
elm, and lime-tree in April; the oak and ash, which are always the
latest among trees, in the beginning or towards the middle of May.
In the same manner the ﬂowering has its regular time: the Inezereon
and snow-drop push forth their ﬂowers in February; the primrose in
the month of March; the cowslip in April; the great mass of plants
in May and June; many in July, August, and September; some not
till the month of October, as the meadow saffron; and some not till
the approach and arrival ofwinter, as the lauristinas and arbutus.
The fact which we have here to notice, is the recurrence of these
51,1805 in the development of plants, at intervals precisely, or very
nearly of twelvemonths. Undoubtedly, this result is in part can.
sioned by the action of external stimulants upon the plant, especially
heat, and by the recurrence of the intensity of such agents,
“The same kind of argument might be applied to the animal
creation. The pairing, nesting, hatching, ﬂedging and ﬂight of birds.
'1‘
274 THE mscovnnv or ran VITAL PRINCIPLE,
perties of matter; light, heat, and motion belong to
matter in its active or fmtal life. “All living bodies
have a temperature peculiar to themselves, and in
dependant of that of the atmosphere.“ Thus the
earth, when it entered upon its second state of
existence, assumed the form of a heart, and its
point of extreme heat being situated in the centre
of the mass, where the materials are kept in a con
stant state of combustion, we ﬁnd its general, tem
perature corresponds with the degrees described
in the subjoined map: receding from the centre,
the materials, upon reaching the boiling point (or
South Pole), gravitate thence by loss of heat over the
whole surface, until they are eventually reunited in
their most solid form at the North Pole, or terres
trial apex, and returned inwardly, by means of the
line of gravitation, to the centre or heart again.
The gradations of temperature are fully explained
in the opposite diagram.
Our earth,‘ in this its foetal stage of existence, is
for instance, orcupy each its peculiar time of the year; and, together
with a proper period of rest, ﬁll up the twelve months. The trans
formations of most insects have a similar reference to the seasons,
their progress and duration. ‘ In every species (except man),' says a
writer on animals, ‘ there is a particular period of the year; in which
the reproductive system exrrcises its energies. And the season of
love and the period of gestation are so arranged, that the young ones
are produced at the time wherein the conditions of temperature are
most suited to the eommeneenu-nt oflife.‘ "
Wbewell, En vacater Treatise.
' Richerand.
; “‘\‘_
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 275
an epitome of the universe, being divided into three
forms of matter; a solid centre or cavity, to be
termed the heart or terrestrial sun,* which may be
considered an elastic moving cave or swelling moun
tain, from the interior of which springs a boiling
liquid element, or fountain of life, which ﬁlters
down its sides, answering to the ﬂuid medium
in which the planets move around the sun: and,
lastly, an aeriform boundary or skin, which consists
of the particles thrown off from the mouth or cavity
of the central heart; these three portions of matter,
composing the ftetal earth are held together by
the line of gravitation passing through the centre
of its bodyrf- This terrestrial line has the same
° “ Many philosophers have believed that the central parts of the
earth consist of a ﬂuid mass of burning lava, which they have called a
subterraneous sun; and have supposed, that it contributes to the pro
duction of metals and t0 the growth of vegetables.“—Dr. Darwin.
“ M. de Mairan has attempted to prove that the earth is inﬁnitely
more indebted for the heat it receives to its own central ﬁres than
to the rays of the sun. Ile allows that this latter, by adding some
portion of heat to the surface of the earth, is the immediate cause of
the vieissitude of the seasons; but asserts, that, were it not for the
continual ascent of an immense quantity of subterranean heat, though
the sun Were perpetually to illuminate two-thirds of the globe at
once, with a heat equal to that at the. equator, the entire orb would
soon candense into one general mass of solid ice.“
AI, Good‘s Notes on Lucretius.
1' “ The diversity occasioned by the unequal attraction in metals,
stones, 8H3. is much increased by what may be aptly termed the
polarity of matter in that mode of arrangement “hich dill'erent sub
stances assume in passing out of a ﬂuid info a solid state. For all
balm are capable of three states, solidity, ﬂuidity, and n gaseous state.
276 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
powers, in regard to the earth, as the celestial one,
described in pages 30, 31, and 32 of this work, has
on the larger scale of the universe. Its upper or
southern end has the power of repulsion and gal
vanism, the lower or northern, that of attraction and
electricity" at the former, the heart’s materials are
The polarity of bodies arises from the manner in which the particles
approach and lay by the side of each other, when the ﬁre, that kept
them separate, subsides, and the attraction of cohesion draws them
into a solid."—I,ydiurd, MS.
" Of the Northern Magnetic Pole, Sir John Ross says, “It was
scarcely ccnsorablc to regret that there was not a mountain to indi
cate a spot to which so much of interest must ever be attached ; and I
could even have pardoned any one among us who had been so romantic
0r absurd as to expect that the magnetic pole was an object as con
spicuous and mysterious as the fabled mountain ofSindbad, that it even
was a mountain of iron, or a magnet as large as Mont Blanc. But
nature had here erected no monument to denote the spot which she
had chosen as the centre of one of her great and dark powers; and,
where we could do little ourselves towards this end, it was our busi
ness to submit. and to be content in noting by mathematical numbers
and signs, as with things of far more importance in the terrestrial
system, what we could but ill distinguish in any other manner.
“The place of the observatory was as near to the magnetic pole as
the limited means which I possessed enabled me to determine. The
amount of the dip, as indicated by my dipping needle, was 99’ 59’,
being thus within one minute of the vertical; while the proximity at
least of this pole, if not its actual existence where we stood, was
further conﬁrmed by the action, or rather by the total inaction, ofthe
several horizontal needles then in my possession. These were sus
pended in the most delicate manner possible, but there was not one.
which showed the slightest cﬂ'ort to more from the position in which
it was placed: a fact, which even the most moderame informed of
readers must now know to he one which proves that the centre of
attraction lies at a very small horizontal distance, ifat any.
“ As soon as I had satisﬁed my own mind on this subject, I made
known to the party this gratifying result of all ourjointlabours ; and
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 277
ejected in an elastic state of combustion; at the
latter they are contracted and collected in the most
solid and condensed form for the organization of
the internal fabric? _
Any person must perceive, on examining our
globe, that the mass of that portion approximating
to the North Pole is chieﬂy land; while the greater
part of the globe, (answering to the large and upper
end of the heart) is comparatively one uniform
mass of water and ice. It is a well known fact
that very much heat is contained in ice, and if
two pieces, as I formerly observed, be rubbed to
gether, sufﬁcient heat will be elicited to melt them.
The elastic matter thrown upwards from the earth’s
centre, to the boiling point, (the South Pole, or
it was then, that, amidst mutual congratulations, we ﬁxed the
British ﬂag on the spot, and took possession of the North Magnetic
Pole and its adjoining territory, in the name of Great Britain and
King William the Fourth. We had abundance of materials for build
ing, in the fragments of lime-stone that covered the beach; and we
therefore erected a cairn of some magnitude, under which we buried
a canister, containing a record of the interesting fact, only regretting
that we had not the means of constructing a pyramid of more im
portance, and of strength suﬂicicnt to withstand the assaults of time
and of the Esquimaux. Had it been a pyramid aslarge as that of
Cheops, [am not quite sure that it would have done more than satisfy
our ambition, under the feelings of that exciting day. The latitude
of this spot is '70" 5' l7". and its longitude 96° 46’ 45" west."
Sir John Ross't quagr (u the North Polar Regions.
' “ The earth, say the Joinns. (a sect of Hindoos,) is formed by
nature; that is, by inherent properties existing in itself. " ' " The
world, in short, is produced as the spider produces his web, out of its
own b0wels.“-— Ward’s History, Literature, and Rcligioan the Hindous.
278 THE mscovanv OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
mouth of the heart, necessarily would freeze there,
but the heat caused by its friction would preserve
the mass above it, which is continually forced oil',
in a ﬂuid state)“ Thus water must always be
' “Water at 32° of Fahrenheit‘s thermometer is cold enough to
become solid in the character of ice: a little heat and the pressure of
the atmosphere make and keep it ﬂuid, and we then call it water; but,
if that heat be increased to 212° of the same thermometer, it will over
come the pressure of the atmosphere, and ﬂy off as gas or steam."
“Vapour or steam rises from water at all temperatures, and even
from ice."-—Wheu‘e/Z.
In Captain Cook's second voyage, we learn that “ after leaving Dusky
Bay, they steered for Queen (‘harlotte's Sound, where they expected to
ﬁnd the Adventure. In this passage they met with nothing remarkable,
or worthy of notice, till the aftemoon of the 17th, when the sky became
suddenly obscured by dark dense clouds, and seemed to forbode much
wind. Presently after, six water-spouts were seen. Four rose and
spent themselves between them and the land; the ﬁfth was without
them; the sixth ﬁrst appeared at the distance of two or three mile.
from them. Its progressive motion was not in a straight, but in
a crooked line, and passed within ﬁfty yards of the stern without
their feeling any of its effects. The diameter of the base of this spout
was judged to be about ﬁfty or sixty feet. From this, a tube or
round body was formed, by which the water, or air, or both, was
carried in a spiral stream up to the clouds. Some of the sailors said,
they saw a bird in the one near them; which was whirled round like
the ﬂy of a jack, as it was carried upwards. From the ascending
motion of the bird, and several other circumstances, it is very plain,
that these spouts are caused by whirlwinds; and that the water in
them was violently hurried upwards, and did not descend from the
clouds, as is generally supposed. The ﬁrst appearance of them is by
the violent agitation and rising up of the water; and, presently
after, you see a round column or tube forming from the clouds
above, which apparently descends till itjoins the agitated water below.
Captain Cook says, apparently, because he believes it not to be so in
reality, but that the tube is already formed from the agitated water
below, and ascends, though at ﬁrst it is either too small or too thin to
be seen. When the tube is formed, or becomes visible, its apparent
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 279
ﬂowing externally from the South Pole to the North
or electric freezing Pole) there by electricity to be
worked again internally up the line of magnetism,
and thence again to be thrown oil" as in the ﬁrst
instance-f~
diameter increase: until it is pretty large; after that, it decreases, and,
at last, it breaks or becomes invisible towards the lower part. Soon
after, the sea below resumes its natural state; and the tube is drawn,
by little and little, up to the clouds, where it is dissipated.“
‘ Sir John Ross described the temperature of the North Pole as
being \ery variable, changing “from hot to cold even within a few
hours."
'l' “ Three-ﬁfths of the surface of the globe are covered by the sea."
Bulrewe/l.
“ It is well known that the Euxine, the Mediterranean, and many
other seas, ﬂow perpetually in one uniform current, and exhibit no
excess or deﬁciency from a flux or reﬂux of tide; of the two here
enumerated, the direction of their currents is diametrically opp0sitc ;
for, while the Mediterranean is for ever receiving an increase ofwater,
and ﬂowing towards the interior, the Euxine is perpetually parting
with its waters and ﬂowing externally into the Mediterranean. Yet
each preserves its balance; the Euxine is never exhausted, nor the
Mediterranean ever exundates. Diﬂ'erent causes have been advanced
in order to account for these extraordinary phenomena. With respect
to the former, it has been generally supposed, that its supply is ob
tained from the Danube, the Don, the Nieper, and other considerable
rivers that empty themselves into its basin; while the excess and
superﬂuity of the latter is conceived to be carried off by evaporation
from its surface. Neither ofthese explanations, however, are altogether
adequate or satisfactory: it is more probable that the one is fed by
springs, and the other emptied by ﬁssures, which lie too low for the
penetration of man, and form a communication with the Red Sea,
whose current, contrariwise to that of the Mediterranean, is perpetu
ally ﬂowing out. Or perhaps the accumulation of water in the Medi
terranean is carried off by an inferior and opposite current; for that
such antagonist currents do occasionally, and probably at all times,
exist in the ocean itself, there can be no doubt. Some very ingenious
5
280 Tue DISCOVERY OF 'rnu VITAL PRINCIPLE,
The following is extracted from Captain Cook’s
voyage to the South Pole; I give it in his own words :
Sunday, January 30th. “ On the 30th, at four
o’clock in the morning, we perceived the clouds,
over the horizon to the south, to be of an unusual
snow-white brightness, which we knew denounced
our approach to ﬁeld-ice. Soon after, it was seen
from the top-mast head; and at eight o’clock, we
were close to its edge. It extended east and west,
far beyond the reach of our sight. In the situation
we were in, just the southern half of our horizon
experiments of Count Rumford seem, indeed, to demonstrate that
ﬂuids of all kinds, when heated to different temperatures in different
parts of their volume, must necessarily have such an opposition of
currents; the warmer, from its rarefaction and speciﬁc levity, occu—
pying the superior part, and the colder the part below; a fact from
which we may explain, to illustrate the remark by a common incident,
the greater frigidity of the bottom of a boiling tea-kettle, though
immediately in contact with the ﬁre, when measured with the heat of
its sides and summit. In like manner in the ocean, the philanthropic
writer to whom lhavejust referred, suspects there is an under-current
of cold water ﬂowing perpetually from the poles towards the equator,
even when the superior waters ﬂow obviously from the equator towards
the poles; nor is it possible, as he thinks, to account for the difference
of temperature which exists at diﬂ‘erent depths of the sen upon any
other principle. ﬁn the 23d of August, in the latitude of 69, when
the temperature of the atmosphere, and probably of the surface of the
sea, was 59} 0f Fahrenheit‘s thermometer, Lord Mulgrave found that
the water, at the depth of 4038 feet, sunk the thermometer to 32.
And at the tropic, where the difference of seasons never produces a
difference in the temperature of the atmosphere, more than ﬁve or six
degrees, the variation between the heat of the water at the surface. of
the sea, and that at the depth of 36th feet, has been found to amount
to no less than 3| degrees: the superior temperature measuring 84,
and that below not more than 43.“
See Goud’s LUt‘TiIll'UI,p1/g( 288. Essays Polilwal, 61‘. Vol. II.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 28]
was illuminated, by the rays of light reﬂected from
the ice, to a considerable height. Ninety-seven
ice-hills were distinctly seen within the ﬁeld, besides
those on the outside; many of them very large, and
looking like a ridge of mountains, rising one above
another till they were lost in the clouds. The
outer or northern edge of this immense ﬁeld was
composed of loose or broken ice close packed
together; so that it was not possible for any thing
to enter it. This was about a mile broad; within
which was solid ice in one continued compact body.
It was rather low and ﬂat, (except the hills,) but
seemed to increase in height, as you traced it to
the south; in which direction it extended beyond
our sight. Such mountains of ice as these were, I
believe, never seen in the Greenland seas; at least,
not thatI ever heard or read of; so that we cannot
draw a comparison between the ice here, and there.
It must be allowed, that these prodigious ice moun
tains must add such additional weight to the ice
ﬁelds which enclose them, as cannot but make a
great difference between the navigating this icy sea
and that of Greenland.
“I will not say it was impossible any where to
get farther to the south; but the attempting it would
have been a dangerous and rash enterprise, and
what, I believe, no man in my situation would have
thought of. It was, indeed, my opinion, as well as
the opinion of most on board, that this ice extended
282 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
quite to the pole, or perhaps joined to some land,
to which it had been ﬁxed from the earliesttime; and
that it is here, that is, to the south of this parallel,‘
where all the ice we ﬁnd scattered up and down to
the north, is ﬁrst formed, and afterwards broken
oﬂ’ by galcs of wind, or other causes, and brought
to the north by the currents, which we always found
to set in that direction in the high latitudes. As
we drew near this ice some penguins were heard,
but none seen; and but few other birds or any
thing that could induce us to think any land was
near. Andyet, I think, there must be some to the
south, behind this ice; but if there is, it can afford
no better retreat for birds, or any other animals,
than the ice itself, with which it must be wholly
covered. I, who had ambition not to only go
farther than any one had been before, but as far as
it was possible for man to go, was not sorry at
meeting with this interruption; as it, in some
measure, relieved us; at least, shortened the dangers
and hardships inseparable from the navigation of
the Southern Polar regions. Since, therefore, we
could not proceed one inch farther to the south, no
other reason need be assigned for my tacking, and
standing back to the north; being at this time in
the latitude 71° 10 south,longitude 106° 54' west.”+
' About 10" 23’ south.
'l‘ “The risk run in exploring a coast, in these unknown and
icy seas, is so very great, that no man, (the captain says,) will ever
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 283
Let us now turn from the narrative of the gallant
and enterprising Captain Cook, to the picture given
by our contemporary, Sir John Ross, of the opposite
extreme of our planet, the North Pole.
“At present all was solid ice,* there was not a
drop of water any where to be seen, nor was there
the slightest mark to indicate the commencement
of a thaw. Can it be believed that they were but
venture farther than he has done; and therefore the lands which
may lie to the south will never be explored. Thick fogs, snow
storms, intense cold, and every other thing that can render navi
gation dangerous, must be encountered; and these difﬁculties are
greatly heightened, by the inexpressihly horrid aspect ofthe country;
a country, doomed by nature never once to feel the warmth of the
sun‘s rays, but to lie buried in everlasting snow and ice. The ports
which may be on the coast, are, in a manner, wholly ﬁlled up with
frozen snow of vast thickness; but if any should he so for open as to
invite a ship into it, she Would run a risk of being ﬁxed there [Or
ever, or of coming out in an ice island.“--Muvor, Captain Cook‘s
Voyage toward: the South Pole.
The captain, speaking of the snow and sleet, says that it “froze
to the rigging as it fell, making the ropes like wires, and the sails like
boards or plates of metal. The sheaves also were frozen so fast in the
blocks, that it required our utmost eiTorts to get a top-sail down and
up; the cold so intense as hardly to be endured; the whole sea, in a
manner, covered with ice; is hard gale, and a thick fog.“—Captuin
Cook’s Voynge towards the South Pole, lat. 67° 20’, long. 137° 12'.
' “It must appear strange to readers ignorant of these countries,
to hear that the people suffer more from thirst, when travelling, than
from all the other inconveniences united. By us, at home, where the
snow can never be very cold, where it can therefore be easily melted
by the ordinary heat of the body, and where it can even be eaten as a.
substitute for water, the very different temperature of the same sub
stance in that country is easily overlooked, as many persons are even
ignorant of this fact. No great inconvenience can occur as to this
matter, where its heat is rarely much below the freezing point, and
284 THE mscovsmr or "run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
ten days to Midsummer; that all was still hard
Winter, and that winter in the middle, I may almost
say, of summer; a season such as the January of our
own native land seldom sees P"—“ And to those
who have not seen a northern ocean in winter-—
who have not seen it, I should say, in awinter's
storm—the term ice, exciting but the recollection
of what they only know at rest, in an inland lake or
canal, conveys no ideas of what it is the fate of an
arctic navigator to witness and to feel. But let
them remember that ice is stone; a ﬂoating rock
in the stream, a promontory or an island when
aground, not less solid than it were a land
qurmzite. Then let them imagine, if they can,
these mountains of crystal hurled through a
narrow strait by a rapid tide; meeting, as moun
tains in motion would meet, with the noise of
thunder, breaking from each other's precipices huge
fragments, or rending each other asunder, till, losing
scarcely ever falls as low as twenty degrees. It is a very different
thing, when perhaps the highest temperature of the snow, during the
winter months, is at zero, and when it often falls to minus ﬁfty or
more, or to eighty degrees below the point at which we should attempt
to thaw or to eat it in England. Were it not so bad a conductor as
it is, we could, in this country, no more take it into the mouth, or
hold it in the hands, than if it was so much red-hot iron; but from
that cause, this consequence at least does not follow. The effect,
nevertheless, which it does produce, is that of increasing, instead of
removing. the thirst which it is endeavoured to quench; so that the
natives prefer enduring the utmost extremity of this feeling, rather
than attempt to remove it by the eating of snow.“
Sir John Rose's Voyage.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 285
their former equilibrium, they fall over headlong,
lifting the sea around in breakers, and whirling it in
eddies; while the ﬂatter ﬁelds of ice, forced against
these masses, or against the rocks, by the wind and
the stream, rise out of the sea till they fall back on
themselves, adding to the indescribable commotion
and noise which attend these occurrences.”
July 5, 1833. “ An avalanche of ice from the
clitfs, intermixed with rocks and water, was a novel
sight, and, in this dearth of events, would have been
interesting, even had it been far less splendid as a
spectacle. Falling into the sea, it carried all before
it; breaking the ﬂat ice to a great distance, and
showing us, had that been new necessary, the
manner in which the icebergs are sometimes found
to be covered with fragments of rock and layers of
earth.
“ So many of my countrymen have now seen the
avalanches of the Alps, and so many more have read
of those in prese and in poetry, as there are some
who can never forget the splendid picture of Low
therbourg on this subject, that any attempt on my
part to describe such an occurrence as this must be
superﬂuous, as it cannot fail to be feeble. Yet there
was a variety in this, which, could I adequately
describe it, in even the plainest prose, or represent
it in the meanest drawing, would not fail to strike
even those who have witnessed what Switzerland
can show. It was not the snow-ball, gigantic as
286 Tim mscovnnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
that may be, detaching itself from the mountain
summit, gaining in magnitude as in velocity during
its progress, and then thundering down an irregular
deelivity, sliding, bounding, and breaking, till it had
safely lodged itself in the valley below, or in the bed
of a torrent; there perchance to obstmct a stream,
be scattered over a plain, or if even overwhelming
a cottage, to fall into repose among the ice that had
received it. Here, all was as instantaneous as it
was unexpected. The icy mountain that had
towered over our heads so long, was gone before we
could say, Behold, be aware: the instant of its
motion was that of its descent, and before it seemed
to have commenced that descent, it had plunged
into the sea: no, not into a sea of water, but a sea
of ice; breaking up those glassy ﬁelds which had
so long bound as in, as if indeed they were but a
feeble mirror; scattering their fragments far and
wide, with a noise exceeding thunder, and prolonged
even like the reverberations of the thunderbolt;
until all settled again into the dead and icy stillness
of its former repose; yet to leave that new mountain
in the waves, a record of this catastrophe, as long
as record could be of those mountains which the
sun would ere long melt, and the winds ﬂoat off to
other and far distant regions)"
The earth is thus growing by the twofold means
of deposition from the sun and internal combustion
’ Sir John Rosa‘s Voyage to the North Pole.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 287
swelling its surface. By the ﬁrst of these means
it is creating immense rocks and strata of solid
materials)“ which are changing their form and
qualities by repeated electricity in the interior of the
earth: there waters collecting by the multiplied
power of attraction, force new passages again and
again into the sea. The sea increases and en
croaches upon the land daily on some shores; whe
ther it recedes in proportion upon other coasts may
be doubtful.
The volcanic process which occasioned the deluge
is still kept up in the two venous and arterial cavities
of the heart. Into these two internal cavities the
waters retreated after the ﬂood, and hence we have
the Atlantic and Paciﬁc Oceans.
The matter in this heart, or cavity, constantly
undergoing pressure, is ever kept in a boiling state
of motion, vomiting forth the rising particles or
scum from its mouth or boiling point, which, ﬂowing
over, gravitates down the sides of the machine,
forming fresh depositions for the reproduction of
new animal life. The illustration may be better
‘ “ It has long been suspected by philosophers, that there is not at
present so much water in the world as there was formerly; while the
quantity of earth, and consequently of continents and islands, has
been increasing in an inverse ratio; it has hence been conceived that
water has been tonh'nuully converting into earth; and some experiments
have very considerably favoured such an hypothesis. There is no
water so pure and uneompounded that it will not, if kept for three or
four years, make an earthy deposit: rain water, distilled water, and
snow, have all been tried for this purpose ; but the same deposit, or
288 rue mscovnnr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
shown by a vessel of boiling jam. As this is made
gradually to boil, it throws up a scum or refuse,
which covers the surface, and between the solid
jam and scum, or cover, is conﬁned the steam:
by contraction, the steam is increased, and particles
or globules revolve round the sides of the vessel:
with the additional pressure of the steam, the
velocity is carried on with renewed force, until
by varied revolutions, the whole mass presses on
the central globule, and combustion takes place;
the ﬂuid particles are thrown in a direct line
upwards,‘r forcing a part of the steam to rise and
transmutation into earth, has uniformly taken place. This pheno
menon was long ago observed by Boerhaave, who declared, in conse
quence thereof, that there was no such thing as pure water to be
obtained anywhere, or by any means. The seeds of plants likewise,
as the white mustard seed, and some aquatic animals, as leeches, are
known to increase in solid substance by the sustenance of water alone ;
or at least without the intermixture of earth, properly so called.
Earth, then, is the production of water, and not an original element."
lllason Good.
“ There are many reasons to believe, from the accounts of travellers
and navigators, that the islands ofice in the higher northern latitudes,
as well as the Glaciers on the Alps, continue perpetually to increase
in bulk.“—Notcs on the Botmlir Garden, by Dr. Darwin.
' “ When pressure is taken ofl‘a ﬂuid, it will ﬂy off as steam.“
Dr. Rilrlu'e.
“ In the memoirs ofthe French Royal Academy, 1703, is a paper of
M. Amontons, in which, after observing tlnt air may be compressed
o as to be rendered heavier than gold, platina, or any other substance
we are acquainted with: after conjecturing, moreover, that the body
of the earth is composed of strata of substances of different gravities,
progressively taking their stations according to their gradation of
weight, he asserts, that the centre of the earth. containing a sphere of
6,451,538 fathoms diameter, is composed of air, thus compressed to a
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 289
ﬂow over with the upper covering or scum ;*
this scum by trickling down the sides of the vessel,
forming a case or exterior covering, and depositing
at the bottom of the vessel all superﬂuous matter.
The matter at the bottom of the vessel, after
continuing to attract fresh matter to its surface,
becomes oppressed, heated, and inﬂamed, so that
the vessel above is constantly kept boiling, throw
ing oﬂ' from its surface fresh formed scum, and with
it a part-0f the steam which passes between the
outward case and the vessel: so that we, in every
situation and form of matter, have three distinct
states, the solid, the ﬂuid, and the aeriform.
“According to the conjectures of astronomers,
the heat and light of the sun do not reside in its
mass, but in a coating which lies on its surface.
If such a coating were ﬁxed there by the force of
universal gravitation, how could we avoid having a
similar coating on the surface of the earth, and of
density greater than that of any known substance besides; and from
such elastic air, expanded by the heat of suhtsrmneous ﬁres, he
deduces all the earthquakes that have ever agitated the globe.“
Note: of llfmon Goml‘s Lucretius;
' “ The following circumstance, communicated to me by a very in
telligent glass manufacturer, evinces the diﬂlculty with which heat
passes through vitreous substances. When the pot containing the
melted glass cracks in the furnace, it is common to pour out the con
tents into water. A mass of melted glass in this situation will soon
become cool and solid on the outside; but the internal parts will
preserve a. red heat for four or ﬁve hours after, and may be seen
shining through the water when the temperature of the outside of the
glass is but sensibly warm.“- Bakeu. 1/.
U
290 THE mscovenv on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
all the other globes of the system P" We have a
similar coating on this earth, and every body,
whether large or small, globular or otherwise, has
a coat which serves the threefold purpose of pro
tecting its own vitality and radiating light and
colour to other bodies, while it forms the seed-bed
for an entire new structure of animal creation.
This coating is the skin of all animals. All the
light of the sun, and of every planet belonging to
him, is given off from the glazed surface or skin;
but the heat resides internally in the cavity or
heart.
It has been discovered by aeronauts, that in the
upper regions of our atmosphere, snow is continu
ally falling, and this even in the brightest and most
serene weather. The snow which thus descends,
when examined by them, was found to be, in many
respects, totally different from that with which we
are acquainted, its particles being of a far more
solid, condensed, and crystalline nature?‘ That
° Mr. Hemming, President of the Marylebone Literary Institution,
observed, that upon one occasion he accompanied Mr. Green, the
aeronaut, in an expedition, when his attention was much aroused by
the sight of a quantity of snow falling in every direction around the
balloon. This snow was perfectly solid and shining in quality, and
Mr. Hamming says, that the circumstance occurred on a day
which was so sultry, and the air so dense and unobstructed by clouds,
that a person who had not witnessed such a phenomenon, could
scarcely have given credence to it.
“ In the arctic regions, the existence of such particles of ice ﬂoating
about in the atmosphere, is proved by the sense of touch, by their
pricking the skin like needles, and raising blisters on the face and
liands.“—Chambers.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 291
there is a region of perpetual snow encompassing
our globe, we have a convincing proof in the
immense mountain tops of various countries, which
are ever covered with this pure matcrial.*
' “ The mountains which bound Asser on the north, are those of
Anti-libanus, which with Libanus bound C(elosyria. These moun
tains take the name of Libanus from their white tops; because,
according to Tacitus, the highest of them are covered with snow all
the summer; the Hebrew word Libanon (saith Weissenburg,) signi
ﬁeth whiteness. ' ° ’ Niger out of Aphrodiscus afﬁrmeth, that on
Libanus, there falleth a kind of honey-dew, which is by the sun con
gealed into hard sugar, which the inhabitants call Sacchar, from
whence came the Latin word Saccarum."
Sir W. Raleigh's History of the World.
“ As touching crystal,’ says Pliny, ‘ it proceedeth of a contrary cause,
namely ofcold ; for a. liquor it is congealed by extreme frost, in manner
of ice ; and for proof hereof, you shall ﬁnd crystal in no place else but
where thewinter snow is frozen hard ; so, as we may boldly say, it is very
ice and nothing else, whereupon the Greeks have givenit the right name
crystallos, ice. We have this crystal likewise out of the east parts, but
there is none better than that which India sendeth unto us. Eugen
dered it is also in Asia, and namely about Alaband, Ortosia, and the
mountains adjoining, but in request it is not no more than that which
is found in Cyprus; howbeit, there is excellent crystal within Europe,
and namely upon the crests of the Alps. King Iuba writeth, that
in a certain island lying within the Red Sea over against Arabia,
named Neron, there groweth crystal; as also in another thereby, which
yieldeth the topaz precious stone; where. Pythagoras (lieutenant or
governor under King Ptolemy.) digged forth a piece which carried a
cubit in length. Cornelius Bocchus afﬁrmcth, that in Portugal, upon
certain exceeding high mountains, when they sink pits for the level
of the water, there be found great crystal quarters or masses of a
wonderful weight. But marvellous is that which Xenocrates the
Ephesian reporteth, namely, that in Asia and Cyprus there be pieces
of crystal turned up with the very plough, so ebb it licth within the
ground: an incredible thing, considering that, before that time, no man
believed that ever it could be found in any place standing upon an
earth) substance, but only among cliffs and craggs. It sonndeth yet
U2
292 THE mscovanv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen.
The sun throws off particles of its own pure mate
rial hydrogen, that is, diamond in its most elastic
state, which matter, as it recedes thence to its place
of destination, loses gradually its elasticity or ﬂuid
heat, and, as a necessary consequence, becomes
collapsed or crystallized. The heat given 011'
during the combustion of the particle is the pure
hydrogen, and of this, the ﬂuid medium, in which
the heavenly bodies move, is composed. The
remaining crystal is the same material in its coldest
or most condensed form, which is pure iron or
oxygen, and such is the snow which is perpetually
falling round our earth; the freezing point being
the point of contact, between solar and planetary
matter.
The earth, 0n the contrary, is throwing off from
a variety of sources its own materials, hydrogen, in
an elastic form; which materials meeting the oxy
gen deposited by the sun, enter into combination
with it in certain proportions, and thus we have
water in all its modiﬁcations, and our atmospheric
more like a truth, which the same Xenocrates writeth, namely, that
oftentimes it is carried down the stream running from the mountains.
As for Sudines, he saith conﬁdently, that crystal is not engendered
but in places exposed only to the south; and verily this is most true,
for you shall never meet with it in waterish countries lying northerly,
be the climate never so cold, no though the rivers be frozen to an ice
even to the verie bottom. We must conclude therefore of necessitv.
that certain celestial humours, to wit, of rain and some small snow
together, doe concurre to the making ofcrystal."
os, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 293
air. Dew, hoarfrost, and rain, as well as water and
ice, are all varieties of the same material, diamond,
dependent alone upon the proportions in which the
combination takes place. It will be recollected,
that hydrogen is the lightest of all materials : oxy
gen is very much heavier than hydrogen. Thus
the hydrogen rises from the earth expanding in
proportion with its ascent; while, on the other hand,
the oxygen falls to the surface of the planet. In
this process, the opposing bodies are compelled
to cut through each other. The hydrogen com
bines in certain proportions with the oxygen,
to form water, rain, dew, and snow; and the
rest escapes and ascends upwards? The oxygen,
" Mr. Green, in an account of the fourth voyage and descent of
the Vauxhall balloon, observed that, “ the ﬁrst layer of clouds was
not more than 800 feet from the earth: these we soon passed through,
and found another about 1,000 feet above us, and as we proceeded
between the two, we were enabled at intervals to see the country through
the open spaces in the lower one. Here the rain still fell in torrents,
and although the balloon acted as a complete covering to the car,
still the drops of water trickled down the silk from all sides, and
meeting at the neck, formed a large stream of water, falling of course
into the centre of the car, and passing through the basket-work. By
altering the direction of this stream, we were able to keep the ladies
in a great measure free from its effects, who were, however, so com
pletely engaged in admiring the wonderful scene around them, that
they appeared little to heed the above inconvenience, or our precau
tions to obviate it. We now passed through two more layers of
clouds, the upper one being 3,500 feet above the level of the sea, as
indicated by my barometer. It was from this layer that the wet
was principally falling, for on arriving at its upper surface the rain
had ceased. There was still, at. a great altitude, a sheet of clouds
sufﬁcient to exclude the sun's rays. To this I attribute the conden
294 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
although crystallized when deposited, contains a
portion of latent heat: when united with the hydro
sation of the vapours below, in the form of rain, for the rays of heat
being reﬂected by it, none could have much inﬂuence on the lower
parts of the atmosphere, whose moisture, instead of existing in a
highly expanded form, becomes, in the partial absence of heat, and
probably from a change in its electrical state, condensed into masses
ot'vapour, the particles of which, by their mutual attraction, fonu
drops of water. There are, doubtless, many unknown causes com
bining to produce these effects; but, from numerous observations, I
believe the above statement to be nearly a correct one. My coni
panions, the ladies especially, wished much to surmount the upper
sheet of clouds, in order to witness the splendid eﬂ'ect produced by
the light of the sun falling directly on it; but the great evaporation
which must inatantaneously have taken place from the whole machine,
would have caused us to ascend rapidly to a very great altitude, and
have prevented our reaching termﬁrma before dark.
“ It is well known that atmospheric air is capable of dissolving,
with a certain degree of heat, a given quantity of water. Dr. James
Hutton ascertain: the ratio of the dissolving power of air, in relation
to water, in different degrees of heat; and shows that, by mixing a
portion of transparent humid warm air with a portion of cold air, the
mixture becomes opuke, and part of the water will be precipitated;
or, in other words, the vapour will be condensed into rain.“-—Enc_i/.
Britannica.
“There are some countries in which rain falls during particular
periods of the year; there are others in which it has not the character
of periodicity, though it may fall in greater abundance in one part of
the year than in another. Mountainous countries are always more
humid than level ones.”—-Higgins’s Earth.
It is a singular circumstance that the heavy rains of India fall
during the shifting of the monsoons. “There are some places in which
rain is almost constantly falling. A null rainfall: every day in a
zone on that Sit/C of the equator on which the run is situated, and when it
cmses at night it mmmt‘nt‘cs on the other side. But there are also
some places in which rain seltl' m or never falls, as in the great desert
of Arabia, and on the shore of Peru, between the 15° and 30° of
south latitude.“ This partial distribution of rain, like that of the
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 295
gen in the form of water, that heat becomes active,
and locomotive animal life is generated; ﬂuidity
being the active principlel“ (see p. 173 of this work.)
If the earth’s temperature be moderate, this combi
nation falls in the form of dew. If heat abound as
perpetual snow, depends entirely on the position of the earth, as
regards the sun, and its own internal radiation of heat, or hydrogen.
“ Sir John Leslie has shewn that, if all the aqueous vapour which
can at any time be held in solution by the whole atmosphere were at
once precipitated on the earth, in the form of rain, it would not be more
than about ﬁve inches in depth: now, as in the course of a year, many
times this quantity of rain falls from the atmosphere, its replenishment,
ofc0urse, must depend upon evaporation; ofwhich evaporation we may
thus infer the general amount. With respect to the quantity of rain
that descends annually on the entire surface of the earth, we want the
means of forming an estimate, though there is no proof that this
quantity is subject to any material diﬂ‘erence. The distribution,
indeed, as we have seen, diminishes with the latitude, and varies
according to numerous local peculiarities, to some of which we shall
heareafter allude. Often, also, no doubt for the wisest purposes, the
same place is liable to considerable ﬂuctuations in the annual amount
of rain, or, at least, in the times of its precipitation; yet all these
variations oscillate within certain limits, and scarcely affect the mean
quantity proper to the place; thus showing that the distribution of
rain obeys the same laws that regulate the more general and ﬁxed
operations of nature."—Dr. Proul.
“in this country, Dr. Thomson has estimated that, taking the whole
of Great Britain together, the mean fall of rain amounts in the course
ofa year to thirty-six inches, the dew being included, (which is con
sidered to amount to about four inches,) and that the quantity of
water evaporated is about thirty-two inches."-—-1bid.
' “ We have Mr. Green‘s authority for stating, that the noise pro
duced by rain leaving a cloud resembles the buzzing of an immense
swarm of ﬂies and bees. This is the ﬁrst part of the process of
aerial distillation; and on nearing the earth, when the ﬁner particles
mix and form globules; the sound emitted resembles a shower of peas,
or small stones suddenly rattled on the extensive surface of the
balloon.”-—Dumfries Courier.
296 THE DISCOVERY or The VITAL museums,
in the summer season, we have violent rains, thun
der-storms, &c."“ or if, on the contrary, the earth
be in the coldest wintry point in the heavens, and
its mass is proportionably condensed, the snow
from without falls unimpeded to the surface.
Dr. Prout observes, “ that it is a remarkable fact,
that whenever electrical phenomena are more than
ordinarily vehement, they are always accompanied
by some unusual appearance of cold. Thus the
alarming descents of hail formerly noticed, which
occur most generally in temperate climates, have,
in nearly every instance, been attendants of violent
thunder-stormsrl' Snow also is almost always
' “Mr. Graham, the aeronaut, describes one of his trip: as being very
grand from the extraordinary appearance of the clouds and the (lashes
of vivid lightning which were visible considerably beneath him.
Whilst up Mr. Graham was compelled to bale the water out of the car,
owing to the torrents of rain that fell. He describes the cold as very
intense when up at the utmost altitude, which was more than three
miles."
't Dr.Prout remarks, that it “seldom hails inwinter, and hail: during
the night is very uncommon. There are on record many instances of
these calamitons visitations, which are usually accompanied by whirl
I Heyne, in his Traits on India, states, that “ hail falls only in the
hottest season, in April and May. It is usually in pieces of the weight
of half an ounce; but sometimes of very considerable magnitude. It
is accompanied by heavy thunder, and storms or gusts of wind from
the eastward. Showers of hail are more frequent above the Uhants
than below them. The natives call the bail ruinstones, and ascribe to
it great im igorating virtues.“
“ Masses of immense size are said to have fallen from the clouds at
different periods: in the latter part of Tippoo Sultan‘s reign, it is on
rccord, and well authenticated, that a piece fell near Scringapataln
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 297
highly electric.‘ These, and many other circum
stances, connected with the great and sudden pro
duction of cold in the higher regions of the atmos
winds, and by the most appalling electrical phenomena. During
storms of such degree of severity, hail-stones have sometimes fallen of
enormous magnitude, and oﬁen of an irregular shape, as if they were
the fragments ofa thick sheet of ice suddenly broken : a supposition,
which alone will explain the formation of angular masses, many inches
in size, and many pounds in weight. The production in the middle
of summer of the intense cold that is thus indicated, is a puzzle which
' philosophers have been unable to solve.“
It must be evident, upon reference to the situation which the planets
occupy in relation to the sun in the summer time, that, being opposite
the full stream of matter issuing from the mouth or cavity of the
universal heart, they must encounter a much more abundant supply
of this matter, which diverging, would form the sheets of ice above
alluded to: and I should add that they are also passing at that period
through the region of positive electricity. It is therefore easy to
account for masses of iron falling from the heavens, elsewhere stated
to be of exotic origin. The condensation of large masses of pure
oxygen would occasion these phenomena.
' “Snow-storms sometimes present a luminous appearance. This
singular phenomenon has been frequently observed, and we have one
very remarkable instance on record. It was witnessed in the year
1813, by a party of gentlemen on Loch Awe, in Argyleshire, and it
not only gave to the surrounding scenery the appearance of an im
mense sheet of ﬁre, but illuminated the persons of the individuals who
composed the party.“-—Higgins's Earl/z.
of the size of an elephant, which, by the Sultan's ofﬁcers, was reported
to produce ‘the effect of ﬁre on the skin of those who touched it:‘ a
comparison naturally made by persons ignorant of the sensation of
extreme frigidity. It is stated that two days elapsed before it was
entirely dissolved, during which time it exhaled such a stench as to
prevent people from approaching it; fear probably occasioned the
latter report. That this account is in the public records of Tippoo's
reign, l have from a gentleman of the greatest respectability of cha
racter, and high in the civil service of the Honourable Company."
Heva.
298 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
phere, during the display of electrical agency,
cannot, in the present state of our knowledge, be
explained. For example, whence, in the middle of
summer, arises that instantaneous development of
extreme cold, which occasionally produces the
terriﬁc hailstorms above alluded to? At present
the answer does not appear. With respect to the
sources of the electricity of the atmosphere, there
have been many opinions. It seems now to be
admitted that electrical excitement does not arise
from the mere evaporation and condensation of
water; but that in order to produce such excite
ment, there must always be some chemical combi
nation or separation. Thus electrical excitement
is the result of the chemical changes which often
accompany the evaporation of water. During
combustion also, there is an ample evolution of
electricity; the burning body giving out negative,
the oxygen positive electricity. In like manner the
carbonic acid sent forth, during vegetation, is
charged with negative electricity, and at the same
time the oxygen, as is most likely, is~ charged with
positive electricity.”
Snow, I repeat, is the purest form in which
the sun’s matter reaches our earth, and I consider
that snow (such snow as falls on the higher portions
of our globe, in a crystallized state, is identical
with pure oxygen, and that this is the most per
fect condition in which we can obtain the diamond;
_ ‘YM-J', - -_;~~“_ ‘
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 299
the degrees beneath that point of deposition being
indeed gradations lower in the scale of life, but
alloyed by terrestrial substances. The deposition
of the crystallized oxygen must take place at some
terrestrial point or degree corresponding with the 40°
Fahrenheit, below which water invariably expands in
freezing: (prior to that period contraction is carried
on.) It is the meeting between the pure oxygen
and the opposing ascending hydrogen, which ocea
sions this expansion. The sun‘s oxygen begins
to expand at a certain number of degrees above our
freezing point, and from that time, combines with
terrestrial matter? Mr. Whewell in the Bridge
water Treatises, makes the following observations:
“There is a peculiar circumstance still to be
noticed in the changes from ice to water, and from
water to steam. These changes take place at a
"‘ The following extract is from Mr. Monck Mason's account of
the late aeronautical expedition, from London to Wielburg, and it
seems to corroborate our view. It was about half-past three in the
morning, when the balloon having gained a sudden accession of power,
owing to a discharge of ballast, which had taken place a few minutes
before, while navigating too near the earth to be considered perfectly
safe in a country with the main features ofwhich we were totally unac
quainted, began to rise with considerable rapidity, and ere We had taken
the tustomary means to check the ascent, had already attained an eleva
tion of upwards of 12,000 feet. At this moment, while all around is
impenetrable darkness and stillness, and darkness most profound, an
unusual explosion issues from the machine above, followed instanta
neously by a violent rustling of the silk, and all the signs which may
be supposed to accompany the bursting of the balloon, in a region
where nothing but itself exists to give occasion to such awful and
unnatural disturbance. In the same instant, the car, as if suddenly
3
300 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
particular and invariable degree of heat; yet
they do not take place suddenly when we increase
the heat to this degree. This is a very curious
arrangement. The temperature makes a stand, as
it were, at the point where thaw, and where boiling
take place. It is necessary to employ a consi
derable quantity of heat to produce these effects;
all which heat disappears, or becomes latent, as
it is called. We cannot raise the temperature
of a thawing mass of ice till we have thawed the
whole. We cannot raise the temperature of boiling
water, or of steam rising from it, till we have
converted all the water into steam. Any heat
that we apply while these changes are going
on is absorbed in producing the changes.”
Dr. Prout, in speaking of the limits of per
petual snow, says, “These limits, of_coursc, may
be naturally supposed to follow the mean tempe
rature of 32° from the level of the sea, in the Polar
regions, to the highest point of their range under
the equator. This inference is obvious, and, gene
detached from its hold, becomes subjected to a violent concussion,
and appears at once to be in the act of sinking with all its contents.
into the dark abyss below. A second and a third explosion follows in‘
quick succession, accompanied by a recurrence of the same astounding
eﬁ'ects; leaving not a doubt upon the mind ofthe unconscious voyager
of the fate which nothing now appears capable of averting. In a
moment, after all is tranquil and secure, the balloon has recovered her
usual form and stillness, and nothing appears to designate the unna
tural agitation to which she has been so lately and unaccountany
subjected.“
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 30]
rally speaking, correct; though it is liable to certain
modiﬁcations, and to some anomalies, of which the
following are the most remarkable. Under the
equator the limits of perpetual snow are the most
ﬁxed and steady, and seem to exist generally at an
altitude of between 15,000 and 16,000 feet. As we
recede from the equator, the oscillations for the most
part become more striking, and all the phenomena
assume a more irregular form. Such, for example,
is the ease in the Mexican Cordilleras; but still
more evidently in the Himala range, where there is
a difference of no less than 4000 feet between the
limits of perpetual snow on the northern and on the
southern sides of the mountain, that on the northern
being the highest. As we proceed towards the
temperate zones, we ﬁnd, in mountainous countries,
below the limits of perpetual snow, immense bodies
of ice, or glaciers, as they are termed. These
glaciers are formed by the alternate melting and
congealing of the extensive beds of snow that lie
above them. The glaciers, accumulating in valleys,
are often, by the enormous and increasing weight
of the more and ice in the upper parts, pressed
downwards far beyond the limits of the snow itself.
Such are the glaciers of Switzerland, of Norway,
and of other countries in temperate climates. All
these circumstances, with others that might be
mentioned, and many probably that are unknown to
us, combine to render the limits of perpetual snow
302 THE mscovnnv on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
irregular. These irregularities are so great, that
Humboldt has given as a mean of many observa
tions, that at the equator the limits of perpetual
snow are nearly 3° above the freezing point, while
in the temperate zone they are nearly 5° below that
point, and in the frigid zone, no less than 10° or 11
below freezing; which observations seem to prove
that the general temperature of the air decreases in
the equatorial, otherwise than in the colder regions!
From the peculiar distribution of the land in the
southern hemisphere, little is known of the line of
perpetual snow in that part of the world; but it
will probably be found to be different from that in
the north, and generally lower.” According to
' “ A foot of snow is not a great depth ofwater, at least till it is
frozen into a mass, nor is it an easy matter to measure the depth to
which a fall of snow is equivalent; such is the drifting, and, still more,
the diﬂiculty of securing any thing like an average within the compass
of any gauge that has yet been devised. Had it been otherwise, we
should have been as pleased as we were desirous, after a whole year's
residence, to know the actual fall of water in this country and climate.
As far as I have read, no such estimates have been attempted respecting
these northern regions and lands of snow. But if, under a vague
estimate from mere recollections or observations of weather, we had
considered this a country in which much water fell in the course of
the year, we might not he very wrong. The past registry, which is
but the usual noting of Weather, gives many days of snow or rain.
Future observers, if future observers should ever have such oppor
tunities, must try to determine what the fact is; but whatever that
may prove, the rain that falls here is oflittlc use, since it has no duty
to perform for vegetation; and if the snow protects any thing, it is a
soil without plants to derive beneﬁt, or rocks which are alike indiffe
rent to rain or drought, heat or cold.“-Sir John Rosa's Voyage to the
Noth Pole.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 303
Mrs. Somerville, the cold is greater in the southern
than in the northern hemisphere. This must obvi
ously be the case from the different position of these
poles with regard to the sun; the south pole or
heart-shaped end being always averted from that
luminary, while the northern or apex is presented
towards it. The following extract is from Mrs.
Somerville’s account of the limits of perpetual snow.
“In Sandwich Island, between the 54th and 58th
degrees of latitude, perpetual snow and ice extend
to the sea beach; and in the Island of St. George‘s,
in the 53d degree of south latitude, which corres
ponds with the latitude of the central counties of
England, perpetual snow descends even to the level
of the ocean. It has been shown that this excess
of cold in the southern hemisphere cannot be attri
buted to the winter being longer than ours by 72
days.” The earth’s heat all radiates from the south
pole, and there gradually condensing as it is thrown
off, the whole appears a continuous mass of ice,
snow, and water, there being little impediment to
the pure oxygen, deposited from the sun, which,
from the earth’s situation as regards that luminary,
must be of a more crystalline nature than elsewhere
on our planet.
All the organization of this ftetal earth has
proceeded from its heart or sun, (the centre of its
body)" Its materials, originating from one simple
' “The conjecture of M. le Marquis de Laplace, that the materials
304 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
element, the diamond, have derived from combus
tion every variety, colour, form, and quality!“K
The rocks considered primary, secondary, and
tertiary, by geologists, are but the scum or refuse
of the more pure materials contained within the
earth: they are a coating formed by the matter con
tinually gravitating from the upper to the lower
extremity of the foetal body. These materials are
thrown off originally in a gaseous form, but, losing
their heat, become condensed around the surface
of the machine. The talented M. Cuvier has enume
rated the species of which this crust or skin princi
pally consists; I subjoin it, as important to our
subject.
“ Flint, clay, lime, magnesia, and oxyde of iron,
comprise nineteen parts in twenty of the external
part of our planet.
“From these ﬁve substances, united in dgiﬂ'i'rent
proportions, almost all rocks and stones are formed.
In this department of nature, as in every other with
which constitute this globe were originally in an elastic form, and
then, in cooling, assumed a liquid consistency, and ﬁnally become
solid, is greatly strengthened by the late experiments of M. Mitcher
lich, who composed and crystallized, by the beat of intense furnaces,
many of the mineralogical species which enter into the composition of
primitive mountains.“-— Cuvicr.
" “ All nature abounds with charcoal, or its combinations; whole
mountains, nay kingdoms, are composed of chalk and limestone, in
which diamonds ought to be contained in astonishing abundance.
But, plentiful as this principle may be, there appears at present no
likely method of obtaining it pure or uninsulated."
The Doctor, Magazine.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 305
which we have any acquaintance, an endless variety
of important changes are eﬁ'ected by the simplest
means.
“These ﬁve substances may probably be reduced
to still simpler elements, as it is now ascertained
that the earths arc metals united with oxygen; and
it is also probable that the metals have all one
common base.
“ The other solid substances most abundant in the
mineral kingdom are carbon and sulphur."
Whatever ﬁgure or form matter may now present
to our view, it has all proceeded from diamond.
In speaking of the primary rocks, Bakewell says,
“They are extremely hard, and the substances of
which they are composed are crystallized. They
form the lowest part of the earth’s surface with
which we are acquainted; and they not only con
stitute the foundation on which the other rocks
rest, but in many situations they pierce through the
incumbent rocks and strata, and form also the
highest mountains in alpine districts. That primary
rocks environ the whole globe will not admit of
direct proof; but, from their frequent occurrence in
mountainous districts in the most distant parts of
the world that have been examined, we may infer
that some of the rocks of this class constitute the
foundation rock of every country.”
The animals which existed prior to the general
deluge; were inhabitants of the solid surface of the
x
306 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
ovum itself: they were, in fact, a parasitical race of
beings, by whose united efforts the internal fabric
of that ovum was progressively disunited and decom
posed, until eventually the dissolution of its elements
brought on that catastrophe, which involved all
alike in one common fate, Noah and his family
alone excepted, who were preserved to perpetuate
the race upon the earth. The extreme pressure
produced around the whole earth, at that period,
causing a sudden change to take place in the indi
vidual atmosphere of every living inhabitant, each
part like the whole mass became enveloped in a
crystalline or glassy case,“‘= and thus returning to
its primary state of solidiﬁcation, the atmosphere
imprisoned its living tenant in a solid and appa
rently indestructible tombrir- Hence all the varieties
" “ In Lipari, one ofthe volcanic isles, the mountain de la Csstagna,
according to Spalanzani, is wholly composed of volcanic glass, which
appears to have ﬂowed in successive currents, like streams of water
falling with a rapid descent and suddenly frozen! ' ' Numerous
veins of obsidian (or volcanic glass) are said to intersect the cone of
Mount Vesuvius, and serve as a cement, to keep together the loose
materials of which it is composed."—Bakewell.
“Where the obsidian appears ins state of [It‘d'cclglass, it is very near
to where it has been ﬁrst ejected from the side of the crater, and in a
situation where it must have undergone a rapid cooling."—Ib.
't Boyle, in his Essay on Gems, mentions the ﬁnding diamonds
“ enclosed in loose stones and even in rocks; of which we have credible
testimony: which seems," he observes, “not more strange to me than
a stone, which I have by me, which being a kind of pebble, contains in
it a perfectly shaped serpent, coiled up, but without a head, which
appears to have been formed before the stone, in regard that in the
upper and lower parts of the solid stone, there are cavities left, which
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 307
of fossil animals and plants, some of which have
been preserved, even down to these our own times,
together make up one cavity, just of the size and shape of the contained
body; to which, as it was easy for the matter of the stone, while ‘twas
yet a soft body, to accommodate itself exactly, so ‘tis scarce con
ceivable how, if the pebble had been ﬁrst formed, the inclosed animal,
if it were one, or the matter whereof the seeming animal afterwards
was formed, should not only get in, but ﬁnd a cavity so curiously
shaped, and so ﬁtted to its bulk. And that this variety was produced
at several times, might be further argued from this, that the seeming
serpent is plainly of another and clearer kind of stone than that of
the mould that encompasses it; and of the mould itself, one part,
contiguous to the included body, is whitish, and abounds in shining
grains or ﬂakes, in both which it differs from the other and far greater
part.“-“Ihave now by me a ﬁne piece of clear and solid amber,
(presented me by a person, no less extraordinary than it,) in which is
included a large entire ﬂy, in shape and size much like a grass
hopper, but variously and curiously coloured, with his wings dis
played.“
“ As Thomas Winter, of Soulby, near Kirby Stephen, was on the 8th
inst. building a stable for the Rev. John Collinson, he had occasion to
break a blue whin-stone, and in the centre he discovered a small
cavity, in which was a living spider and several young ones. it has
been examined by several ladies and gentlemen in the neighbourhood,
who have all signed a declaration expressing their belief in Thomas
Winter‘s statement. The stone and spider are now in the possession
of the Rev. J. Collinson, who, we understand, has taken them with
him to his house at Kibblesworth, in the county of Durham.“-
Kendal liferrury, August 1, 1834.
Imitatit'efrealrs qf nature.—“ In New Hampshire, United States,
there is a range of ﬁne hills, which receive the general designation of
the White Mountain. One of them, about a thousand feet high,
situated near the road from Franconia to Plymouth, is called the
Proﬁle Mountain, in consequence of a remarkable appearance which
it bears when viewed in a particular direction. On one side, the
mountain rises by a gentle wooded ascent; on the other, it presents
a precipice, descending at an angle of about eighty degrees, or nearly
perpendicular. The upper half of this precipice, composed of brown
granite, forms the outline of a human countenance. consisting of a
x2
308 THE DISCOVERY or 'rns VITAL PRINCIPLE,
with small traces of decay. This solidiﬁcation
being caused by a sudden gravitation or pressure
low hanging brow, a deep-set eye, a low nose, and a prominent mouth,
thus hearings resemblance to the Ethiopian variety of the species.
The chin is well deﬁned, and seems to rest on a large bank of debris,
forming the lower half of the mountain. The part composing the
proﬁle has the appearance of long exposure to the weather, and it is
inconceivable that it has at any time been affected by the hand of art.
“A similar phenomenon exists within the bounds of the city of
Edinburgh. On the summit of the Calton Hill, immediately beneath
a naval monument to Nelson, is a rocky precipice of probably a hundred
feet in height, extending between the base of the building and a walk
below. Thefure of this precipice, as it may literally be called, when
viewed from a point to the south of Holyrood Palace, about hall‘a
mile distant, presents a proﬁle of considerable elegance, and in every
way well proportioned. What is stranger still, this proﬁle bears no
fanciful resemblance to that of the hero of Trafalgar.
“ Landscape marble is a well known kind, which, on being cut into
thin slices, and polished, gives the appearance ofa picture, containing
ﬁelds, rivers, hedge-rows, trees, and, in some instances, a back ground
of distant eminenccs. In some precious stones, miniatures of natural
objects, such as trees, shrubs, mosses, and even animals, are. frequently
found. According to D‘lsraeli, in his Curiosities of Literature, such
curiosities were well known to the ancients.‘ Pliny mentions an agate
in which appeared, formed by the hand of nature, Apollo amidst the
nine muses holding a harp. Majolus assures us, that at Venice another
is seen, in which is naturally formed the perfect ﬁgure ofa man. At
Pisa, in the church of St. John, there is a similar natural production.
which represents an old hermit in a desert, seated by the side of a
stream, and who holds in his hand a small bell, as St. Anthony is
commonly painted. In the temple of St. Sophia, at Constantinople,
there was formerly, on a white marble, the image of St. John the
Baptist, covered with the skin of a camel, with this only imperfection,
that nature had given him but one leg. At Ravenmi, in the church
of St. Vital, s cordelier is seen on a dusky stone. They found in
° Pyrrhus possessed un agate, on which was represented the shapes of
sundry things; as beasts, rivers, forests, and birds, formed by the hand of
nature.—Pc¢rarell’| I 'iew ofHuman Life.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 309
from without, completely ﬁlled up all the interstices
of the body or plant'with that material which nature
had sought to reject from its surface or skin. That
the atmosphere at the period of the deluge was of
a. more dense nature than that now surrounding
Our earth, I have already endeavoured to pro vc,* for
the material must have varied with the body from
which it was produced-l"
Professor Faraday, in a lecture delivered at the
Royal Institution, in 1836, on the subject of siliciﬁed
trees and plants, began by explaining the nature of
silica, a chief ingredient in the composition of all
Italy a marble, in which a cruciﬁx was so elaborately ﬁnished, that
there appeared the nails, the drops of dlood, and the wounds, as per
fectly as the most excellent painter could have formed them. At
Sneilberg, in Germany, they found in a mine, a certain rough metal,
on which was seen the ﬁgure of a man, who carried a child on his
back. In Provence they found. in a mine, a quantity of natural ﬁgures
of birds. trees, rats, and serpents; and in some places of the western
parts of Tartary, are seen, on divers rocks, the ﬁgures of camels,
horses, and sheep. There is also preserved in the British Museum, a
black stone, on which nature has sketched a resemblance ofthe portrait
of Chaucer.“—Chamber‘s Edinburgh Journal.
° “ We have no evidence that the sea at present can incrust these
shells with a paste as solid as marble, sand stone, and even the compact
limestone, in which we see the shells of our layers imbedded."—Cuvier.
1' Fossil Tree: in Elinburgh.—In the sandstone quarry now work
ing at the west end of Rutland street, several fossil trees of con
liderable magnitude have been found in the course of the operations.
These have mostly been broken down by the workmen, as the substance
of the trees seems formed of materials not very different from the
sandstone in which they are imbedded; but specimens in plenty are
still lying about, of large size—Edinburgh Advertiser, April 10, 1833.
See also p. 257-261 of this work.
310 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
stones and earths, of which ﬂint and sand are
almost entirely composed,‘ observing that every
kind of glass is produced by the combination of
silica with an alkali, and that the difference in the
quality is owing to the proportion of the elements
not being the same, or to the nature of the alkali, or
the presence ofother substances.”+ After producing
some very remarkable specimens of siliciﬁed trees
° “ Silex. or the earth of ﬂints is the most abundant, particularly
in the primary mountains: it exists nearly pure in rock-crystal and
the mineral quartz. Stones or rocks, of which silex forms the pre~
dominant part are extremely hard, and strike ﬁre with steel: such
rocks are denominated siliceous.“—Cuvier.
“Silex is a most important production, and in its hardness, insa
lubrity, and other refractory properties, we recognise a substance
admirably adopted for the purpose to which it has evidently been
designed, viz. that of constituting the stamina or groundwork, as it
were of our globe, and which could not be withdrawn without sub
verting the whole: silex is found in small quantities both in plants and
in animals, but does not, like hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, and note,
form a constituent element of organized beings.“
Dr. Prout. Brillgcwater Trwnius.
“ Silica is now called an acid."—Jl[r. Brande.
'i' “ The lecturer then proceeded to exhibit a variety of the crystal
lized forms of silica, and to explain their several characters. He pro
duced several magniﬁcent specimens of agates, nmethysts, chalcedonis,
810. He also directed the attention of his hearers to several specimens
of wood, which had been completely siliciﬁcd, and still their several
characters were completely preserved. Some of them had been found
in the sandy deserts of Egypt, and some extremely ﬁne specimens had
been brought from Van Divinen‘s Land. One of the most striking
examples was the section of a fossil palm tree, the exterior of which so
nearly resembled a tree in its original state, that, to season] ObserVer,
the change that it had undergone would not be distinguished; this he
compared with a corresponding section of a palm-tree from the collec
tion of Mr. Brown, the distinguished botanist. He observed that not
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 31]
and plants, Dr. Faraday continued as follows, “it
is plain, on reviewing some of the cases above
only the external character of the siliciﬁed tree had been preserved,
but the internal arrangement was not in the least degree destroyed, for
all the vessels preserved their original forms, and these were ‘more
beautiful and distinct in this specimen than in any that could be pro
cured by the section ofa living tree. Indeed, so much was this the
case, that it might almostbe said that the internal structure of a tree
which had been turned into ﬂint, could be examined with greater
attention and nicety than in any other way. It often happened that
the ossiﬁcation was not complete, and thus the interior became sili
ciﬁed, while the exterior decayed; or that the interior perished, while
the exterior was preserved in a fossil form. At other times the internal
ﬁbrous part decayed, and the leaves and seeds were preserved in this
shape. In a great variety of cases which were exhibited, the whole
form and structure was changed, and all the parts of the tree were
ﬁlled up, and the whole vegetable ﬁbre became a solid mass of ﬂint,
while none ofthe organs appeared to be destroy cd. This change could
not be efl‘ected by any modern proucss.
“ It would be impossible by any mechanical means with which he
was acquainted to till up all the parts of a piece ot‘wood with water
or spirits of wine, without destroying inﬁnitely more of the internal
vessels by the process than was done in the case of the siliciﬁed trees
and plants. Even those plants most light and yielding in their
texture were preserved in as ﬁne a manner as if living. The change
was very remarkable in the endogenous class of plants, Web as the
palms, which increased by a continued addition of ﬁbre cells or vessels
from the centre, where of course the ﬁbres were extremely close
together, but all of which had been ﬁlled with silica: it was still more
so, however, in the exogenous plants, which increased by external
layers, many of which were most irregular, but the change had been
as complete as in other cases. He then referred to a specimen of a
siliciﬁcd oak tree, in which the form and colour of all the vessels,
together with the various knots, had been preserved, but still the
whole was a mass of ﬂint. Some specimens of siliciﬁed trees had
recently been brought from the Isle of Antigua, which had been
changed while in a state of decay. This decay had suddenly been
stopped, and a complete alteration had taken place in the character of
the substance. So well was the appearance of these plants preserved,
312 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
described, that a process different from the tedious
one of inﬁltration and gradual deposition must have
produced the appearances in question. Neither the
free disposition nor the forms of the delicate vege
table structures could have remained unaltered.
The loss of colour must have followed the death of
the plant, and the total loss of its ﬁgure would have
that a botanist could at once determine their character. Sometimes
the change was so complete, that it could not be perceived by mere
visual observation. At the present time many things were found in
the vicinity of the Geysers, or boiling fountains in Iceland, which were
completely incrusted with silica. In point of fact the avatar of the
Geyser: was only an alkaline solution of silica, pnxiuccd by beat; this
was also the probable cause of their violent action. The plants,
however, thus acted upon, were by no means completely siliciﬁed, nor
did they continue in a permanent form. There was no evidence that
the process of siliciﬁcation was going on now. It had, however, been
stated that the waters of some rivers possessed this power, and such
was said to be the case with respect to the Danube, near the ruins of
the bridge of Trajan, and also in Lough Neagh, in Ireland. There
were some recent cases which had been referred to as a proof that the
waters of Lough Neagh possessed this quality. Mr. Faraday thin
exhibited a specimen of what was alleged to be siliciﬁcd wood from
this lake, and which belonged to Mr. Brown; he stated that it could
not be said to have undergone this change to the extent that appeared
in other instances, as parts of it appeared to be carboniﬁed, and would
burn when exposed to a strong ﬂame. There was no doubt,however,
that a part of it had been acted upon by the silica, and that the bark
had apparently become fossil. Mr. Lysll states that he had met with
some specimens of the seeds of plants now alive, which had been sili
ciﬁed. To this extent only did the evidence go that the process was
going on at present. Any satisfactory theory on this subject must
not only account for the change in trees and plants, but also for the
formation of agate, amethyst, and amorphous quartz. He was satis
ﬁed that it could not be produced by heat. Indeed it appeared to
him that there was no satisfactory evidence that silica could be crys
talized by heat."-—l\'cwspuprr Paragraph. ‘
~ - -- a-~-__: — n ==-... _ .
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 313
resulted from the gradual changes which it must
needs have undergone during the continuation of a
process so tedious. The remains are, in fact (if I
may use such an expression), embalmed alive. To
produce this effect, we can only conceive a solution
of silex in water so dense as to support the weight
of the substance involved—a solution capable of
solidifying in a short space of time, or capable at
least of suddenly gelatinizing previously to the
ultimate change by which it became solidiﬁed into
stone. I need not point out the extreme importance
of this supposition—I had almost said of this fact
-—-to any general theory of the earth.”
The decay of one race of animals always erects
the basis of a new species of living machinery; we
shall ﬁnd that the destruction of the primitive
races of animals, has produced a garden, or rest
ing—place for their successors: and that from the
decomposed fabric of the antediluvian world have
arisen the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms
in all that variegated splendor now exhibited on the
surface of our planet.“"
' “We have very fairly ascertained the uniform march and regular
succwsion of the primitive formations, but the study of secondary for
mations has scarcely yet commenced; that wonderful series of unknown
Zoophytes, and marine mollusca, followed by reptiles and fresh-water
fish equally unknown, and these in their turn replaced by zoophytes
and mollusca, more akin to those of the present day; those lnnd
animals and m<-llusca, and other fresh-water animals, also unknown,
which next occupy the places, to be again displaced, but by mollusca
and other animals similar to those of our own seas 5 the relations of
314 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
The primary condition of all matter being the
solid or oval, the second the ﬂuid or fcetal, the third
these various beings with the plants,whose remains accompany theirs:
the relations of these two kingdoms with the minera layers which
contain them; the more or loss their uniformity with one another in
diﬂ'erent basins; all these are a series of phenomena which appears to
me to call imperioust for the profound attention of philosophers."
Clwier.
“ The coppery state is supported by a red sandstone of the period
when those famous layers of coal were deposited, the resource whence
the present generation is supplied, and the remains of the earliest
vegetable productions which ornamented the face of the globe. We
ﬁnd, from the trunks of ferns, whose impressions they have preserved,
how much these ancient forests differed from the present.
“\Ve next arrive at those transitive formations in which primmval
nature, a native inanimate and solely mineral, seemed s! ill to can!an for
empire with animated nature. Black limestone, and slates which only
present crustacea and shells of species now extinct, are presented
alternately with the remains of primitive formations, and announce
to us the fact of our having reached the most ancient formations that
it has lwen permitted to us to discover; those ancient foundations of
the actual coating of the globe, the marble and primitive slates, the
gneises, and ﬁnally the granites.“—I1-.
Ertraneous fossils. “From them we have learned, that the strata,
or at least those which contain their remains, have been quietly depo
sited in a ﬂuid; that the variations of the several strata must have
corresponded with the variations in the nature of the ﬂuid ; that they
have been left bare by the transportation of this ﬂuid to some other
place; and that this fact must have happened more than once.
Nothing of all this could have been known with certainty without the
aid of extraneous fossils.“—-Ib.
“Thus it is undeniable, that the masses which now form our
highest mountains, were originally in a state of liquefaction; for a
long time they were covered by waters which did not then nourish
living bodies; it was not only after the appearance of vitality that
important changes took place in the nature of the deposited matter;
the masses before have changed as well as those subsequently pro
duced.“-Ib.
“ The argillaoeous ores of iron comprehend the ochres, and more
___.___ N.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 315
the aeriform or locomotive, I shall assume that,
after the ﬂood, the crust of this earth became re
organized in that succession, and treat the subject
accordingly? Every rock has had for its base, or
particularly those mentioned by Fourcroy under the name of bog-arcs
ofiron, which are commonly met with disposed in beds, and seem
ingly deposited by waters. Mr. Fourcruy informs us, that this kind
of ore is very often in the form of spherical bodies either regular or
irregular. Organic matters, such as wood, leaves, bark, shells, &:c.
are not unfrequently found in the state of bog-ores. This kind q/‘tran
sition seems to indicate an analogy between iron and organic substances.
In the wood of Boulog'ne, near Anteuil, there is a mine of bog-ore
of iron, in which vegetable substances become mineralized almost
immediately under our eyes."—Ency. Britannica.
“ The production of iron from the decomposition of vegetable
bodies is perpetually presented to our view; the waters oozing from
all morssses are chalybeate, and deposit their ochre, or being exposed
to the air, the iron acquiring a calciform state from its union with
oxygen or vital air. When thin morasses lie on beds of gravel, the
latter are generally stained by the ﬁltration of some of the chalybeate
water through them. This formation of iron from vegetable recre
ments is further evinced by the fern leaves and other parts of vege
tables, so frequently found in the centre of the knobs or nodules of
some iron ores.
“ in some of these nodules, there is a nucleus of whiter iron-earth,
surrounded by many concentric strata of darker and lighter iron earth
alternately. In one, which now lies before me, the nucleus is a prism
of a. triangular form with blunted angles, and about half an inch
high, and an inch and a half broad; on every side of this are concen
tric strata of similar iron-earth alternately brownsr and less brown,
each stratumis about a tenth of an inch in thickness, and there are ten
of them in number. To what known cause can this chctly regular
distribution of so many earthy strata of ditl'erent colours surrounding
the nucleus be ascribed? I don't know that any minerslogists have
attempted an explanation of this wonderful phenomenon. I suspect
it is owing to the polarity of the central nucleus."-—Dr. Darwin.
‘ “ Dr. Robert Brown has shown, by s most unexecptionable series
of experiments, that locomotion, even when apparently independent
316 THE DISCOVERY or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
foundation-stone, one solid seed or ovum, originally
thrown off from the centre of this earth in an aeri
forme or elastic state, and subsequently by loss of
heat become collapsed or crystallized. The late
celebrated researches of Professor Ehrenberg have
of external forces, may and does exist among particles that are abso
lutely lifeless; nay, which have never been alive; so that, should not
this phenomenon admit some more probable solution, it would seem
that the long established deﬁnition, which declares matter to be inert,
may perhaps require a serious modiﬁcation. This apparently inde
pendent motion of the molecules ofmatter may appear to some to be
a close approximation to the vital motions of plants, or the sponta
neous movements of animals; and, indeed, the idea would seem more
feasible than the belief of some German philosophers, that crystalli
zation is an eﬁect of vitality. The facts are simply these: that grains
of pollen, particles of dead plants, some of which have been in her
baria for upwards of a century, nay, even fragments of powdered glass
and stone, when diiTused through water, and viewed with a good
microscope, are seen to be in a constant state of motion; and this,
independent of any evaporation of, or currents in, the Hui-l; nay. still
to maintain their restless activity when hermetically sealed between
two plates of glass, so as to exclude, as far as possible, all external
agitation, and are found, even under such circumstances, to continue
their motions unremittineg during an indeﬁnite period; nay, even
after the lapse of months, (I believe we may now say years,) to be as
full of motion as when ﬁrst observed."--Prqﬁ'ssor Burnett.
“Supposing the ground to have been once moistened with a
lapidescent liquor, whether brought thither by springs, or any other
way; one may in our hypothesis well enough account for this diﬁcult
phenomenon, that now and then, not only in the surface ofthe ground,
and perhaps upon rocks themselves there are found aggregates of
ﬁgured stones, that seem to grow upwards, as it were from the root ;
which much puzzle men to know how they came there, and may in
cline them to their opinion, who ascribe vegetations to stones. But
to this may be answered, that many of the concretions, we are speak
ing of, may have been formed in wombs that lay, though not deep,
yet under ground, or in shallow cavities in the surface of it, and that,
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 317
proved that rocks are composed of an aggregate of
minute infusoria in a fossil state, and they also
afford strong reason for the supposition that the
base of these organic bodies is IRON.* It is my
belief that of these infusoria all rocks are composed
after their formation, the looser earth that surrounded them, may
have been washed oil by rains, blown off by winds, or otherwise
removed, leaving behind them these stones that adhered ﬁrmly to a
solid body. Besides if I had time, I think it were very possible for
me to shew, that strong concretions might be produced by the
mechanical action of the air upon the stony particles that successively
app]y themselves to the matter, that ﬁrst begins to coagulate, when
they are ready to be forsalten by the moisture that accompanied those
particles, and was necessary to their due application to the casual
rudimelits (which pass for roots) in imitation whereof I have more
than once obtained both from saline and stony solutions, dry tuﬂs of
prettily ﬁgured, and diaphonous or white, but very slender, stir-ire,
(ifI may so call them,) that seemed to grow out of the solid glass,
and made men wonder how they came thither, no water or other liquor
appearing near them.“—B0_1/le‘s Essay on Gems.
' “1 had been inclined,“ says Professor Ehrenberg, “even before
these researches, to assign a great inﬂuence in the origin of the
Raseneisen (hog-iron-ore) to an infusorium discovered by me in 1834,
and of which I have, in April 1835, given an engraving in plate X.
of my Codex of Infusoria, under the name of Gaillunella fcrruginza,
which is perhaps the same as the Hygrocrocis orbracea of botanists.
The minuteness of these corpuscles deterred me, however, from pub—
lishing this important circumstance; but since the discovery of so
many and various shield-infusoris as stone masses, and since I have
found that even the nnimnlcuhe, which almost entirely form the
Polirschiefer (polishing slate) of Biliu, are also a species of the
genus Gaillonella, I no longer hesitate to add this observation to the
rest. That the formation of the Raseneisen, or of the Weisenerz
(meadow-earth), as a continual phenomenon, excites grcat attention;
and has given rise to many, but not suﬂiciently explanatory theories,
is well known. I have every spring observed in the marshes, par
ticularly in the turf districts about Berlin, large quantities of a sub
stance ol~ a. very deep ochre yellow, sometimes passing into ﬂesh red,
318 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
—in the crystalline state apparently, but not the
loss to be classed among the tribes of living beings
often covering, to a great extent, the bottom of the ditches from one
to several feet deep. and much developed in small holes, and in the
footsteps of animals grazing. This mass is extremely delicate, and
without any consistency, dividing itself at the least touch into an
indeﬁnite number of parts. Where it has become dry, after the evapo
ration of the water, it appears exactly like oxide of iron, for which it
has been formerly often mistaken. We perceive, however, under the
microscope, with a moderately high magnifying power, extremely
slender articulated threads, the members ofwhich measure only “in 0f
a line, and in which the yellow colour is inherent. At the beginning
of last summer I satisﬁed myself that these slender articulated threads
do not lose their form in a strong rwl heat; but the colour changes
to a red-brown, which is exactly that of iron-ochre. It was that by
the application of muriatic acid the colour was diuolved, without the
articulated threads being changed; in the solution precipitated iron
was clearly visible. There is, also, one of the genus Gaillonella, very
similar to the Bacillaria, but a very minute organic being, containing
a yellow ochre colour, in which there is probably a great proportion
of iron, in the same manner as phosphate of lime is contained in the
bones. By extraction of the lime, the gelantiue of the bones retains,
as is well known, its form: in the same manner the Gaillmulla fen-u
gineu possesses a siliceous shield, which retains its form unchanged after
the extraction of the iron.
“I have already examined with the microscope various specimens
of the Rasoneisen from Berlin, from the Ural, from New York, and
other places, and ﬁnd the extremely voluminous yellow iron-oxide
which is attached to them, and wind), perhaps, has originally served
to farm them, to consist also of similar conmcted threads in rows,
which resemble the Gaillonells in size. form, and colour, and which
are not destroyed by the action of heat, or muriatic acid, but no longer
form such evident articulated threads as in the living animal. If I
compare it, when its ﬁbres are disjointed, with the Gaillnnella dist/ms
in the Polirschiefer, I ﬁnd no reason to consider the phenomenon in the
'Wirsenerz-ochre as a diﬂ‘erent one. I received, through the kindness
of Mr. Karstcn, the vegetable products of the mineral water of the
Salt-works of Colberg, in which there is a yellow earthy substance,
in great quantity, formed on the surface. At ﬁrst it collects at the
3
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 319
belonging to the surface of the earth. That animal
life may be developed from crystals by the agency
surface of the stagnant water, as l was informed, in a greenish mass,
similar, therefore, to the protoxide of iron. Dried and exposed to
the air, it remains of a beautiful Ochre-yellow, and on being heated it
becomes of it red-brown blood-stone colour. On dissolving it in
muriatic acid I found a great quantity of iron, with remains of silex.
This substance consists, like the marsh-ochre, of articulated threads,
which separate into single members: it resembles, also, very much
the Gnillwze/Iaferruginea. These Gaillonellse are used in Colberg for
iron-colour in house-painting. The circumstance that this produc
tion of the salt-spring collects on the surface of a yellowish-green
colour, and afterwards sinks to the bottom and changes into yellow,
determines, perhaps, a special, and not otherwise characterized species
of the same genus.’ Thus the siliceous contents of the Raseneisen,
and the incumbustiblc organic form of the minute bodies constituting
the ochre which surrounds it, make it highly probable that here, also,
an Organic relation exists through iqfuwrialjbrmntion, though only so
far as to form qﬂer death, by the large proportion of iron they contain,
a centmlpuint or nucleus, to which all other iron in solution imme
diately around it is attracted. “
In the words of Dr. Darwin:
“ The obedient steel with living instinct moves,
And veers for ever to the pole it loves."
“ The infusoria rock of Bilin forms the upper layer (fourteen feet
deep) of the Tripleberg, which (differing from the Kritschelberg, with
which it was formerly confounded) is elevated about 300 feet above
the level of the brook Bieia. It lies on a bed of clay, which is super
incumbent to the chalk-marl. Beneath these gneiss is found, as the
base of all the minerals of that district. The upper masses of stone
lie west of the 'l‘ripleberg, on a projected mass of basalt, which forms
' “ Another quantity of this mass sent from the Durrenberg Salt
works has determined this question, since it appears in this, that these
living animals (i) also are always yellow; that in dying they rise to
the surface of a grayish-green colour (protoxide of iron), and in
sinking to the bottom they again take the yellow colour."—PrQ/'cssor
Ehrenberg on Fossil Infitsoriu.
r. ‘-._ 4 .——
3'20 THE mscovsnv on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
of galvanic action, has been testiﬁed by our cele
brated contemporary, Mr. Andrew Crosse; and his
the Spitalberg, and on the other side of which (west) Grobkalk, with
many discernible petrifactions of small chalk sea animals (many (‘ri
noideaa) lie on the gneiss. The former masses (Saugschiefer and
semimpal) lie in the Polirschiefer towards the exterior upper part,
the earthy below, disposed often without order in layers, the inferior
ones being almost horizontal.
“ The particular attention paid to the Saugschiefer and semi-opal,
whose numerous transitions were exposed to view, has now given the
scarcely unexpected result, that these, also, are in the closest connec
tion with the infusoria. The Saugschiefer is, upon microscopic obser
vation, plainly only a Polirschiefer, whose infusoria shells srecementcd
by, and ﬁlled with a formless siliceous matter, just as there are fossil
shells, both ﬁlled and empty: this produces its greater speciﬁc weight,
and all its other characters. In the gradual transitions to the semi
opal we see how the cement has increased at the expense of the infu
soria shells, while the small shells have decreased in quantity and
in sharpness of outline.
“The formation of the semi-opal in the Polirschiefer appears to
be this, that it lies imbedded in it in nodules, in the most minute
transitions from the Saugschiefer. A close microscopical analysis of
the most varying semi-opals from Bilin, and the neighbouring valley
of Luschitz, has shown that all these stone nodules, which sometimes
equal ﬂint in hardness, and give sparks, consist partly of infusorial
forms held together by a small quantity of transparent siliceous
cement, and partly contain, enclosed within them, single infusoria,
but ofa larger size, just as amber contains insects. It is often very
plainly to be seen, that the disposition of the Polirschiefer has not
otherwise been altered, either by its change into Saugschiefer (ce
mentcd and permeated by amorphous siliceous matter), or by its
change into semi-opal, than that by some means a part of the infu
soria shells, particularly the more delicate ones. have been eaten away
or dissolved, with which another part, especially of the larger fortnl,
has been covered in an unaltered state. In this process the stratiﬁed
structure remains as fully visible in the Polirschiefer as it had before
been, and forms the stripes of the semi-opal. The white, and less trans
parent stripes, are mostly well preserved layers of infusoria. It is not
improbable thatadissolving medium may have acted upon the siliceous
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 321
experiments prove that the change of these minute
organic beings, from a latent to an active
shells, as drops of water or steam act on meal. The parts in contact
with it were gradually penetrated, and partly dissolved and changed
into opal; or the penetrating matter producing the opal, and which
occupies but a small space, has assimilated to itself a greater or less
part of the empty siliceous shells. The true wood-opal, in which the
woody substance is changed into opal, renders the opinion probable,
that a peculiar opahne mass has supplanted the decayed and dissolved
parts of the woody substance, retaining however its form. We can
not easily imagine the expulsion of the siliceous shield-mass by the
opal-mass, and of the latter ﬁlling its space; therefore it appears
conceivable, that the opal may be probably formed from the infusoria
shells, simply by water, or any other dissolving medium except ﬂuoric
acid, just as dough is formed of meal. Unkneaded dough contains
stripes of meal,——semi-opal has often stripes of infusoria: both are
hydrates.
“ In the semi-opal of Bilin, and of the valley of Luschitz, were
visible, enclosed like insects in amber, l, Gaillonelia dictum; 2, Gail
lonella varians, particularly the larger individuals; 3, Gaillmzcllafer
ruginea; 4, siliceous needles of sponges. The ﬁrst is mostly dissolved,
at times preserved as principal mass, with the outline rather rounded
08', although the connecting medium has quite a glassy appearance.
The second is mostly well preserved, but rather rounded off; the
third is sometimes well preserved in the bull-coloured specimens, but
on account of its minuteness does not admit of a determining cha
racter. The latter, however, is not unimportant with regard to the
question of the action of volcanic agency: it may, perhaps, have been
deposited in the moist parts of the previously formed Polirschiefer.
Upon heating this yellow semi-opal, it became red, and acted as iron.
The red was the articulated ﬁbres of the Gaillonella: they could not,
therefore, possibly have been heated in the air. The tranquil hori
zontal stratiﬁcation of the Polirschiefer (exhibiting, perhaps. the
yearly or periodical deposition of the layers,) speaks also for s Nep
tunian action. Hot vapours of the volcanic neighbourhood might
have much contributed to the purifying of the mass, without actual
ﬁre. The semi-opal of Bilin removes all doubt as to these organic
relations.
“ Very similar formations, with enclosed forms of organic origin,
Y
322 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
state of existence, is progressive.‘ This pro
gression is carried on to a great extent in nature,
and, when we consider the multitudes of micros
copic animals necessary toeompose even the most
minute stone on the sea-shore, the discovery of
its infusorial nature becomes a subject of sur
were also apparent in the semi-opal from Chun_pigny,-that out of
the Dolerit from Steinheim, near Hanau,—1'ind that from the serpentine
formation of Kosemitz in Silesia. The microscopical bodies enclosed
in this stone, very apparently of a spherical form, and ncwr occurring
larger, which we also attached externally to the semi-opal, or horn
stone, from Kosemitz, as a white meal, and ﬁlling out its internal
cavities, might partly belong to the still existing genus Pyritlil “In. '
They are quite different from the stalactitic columns which produce
the round eyes in agau'.“—Prqfessor Mrvnbcrg on Fossil lry‘imiriu.
' “ All stones, metals, and minerals, are real vegetables; that is,
grow organically from proper seeds, as well as plants.“—-Lorl.'r.
()f the fossil lnfusoria, Professor Ehrenberg also obserw<, “Ag
botanists have often regarded these forms as plants, the following
reasons why they are considered as animals, which I have already
often pointed out, are deserving of remark: 1. Many Navicula, and
other Bacillnrise, have quite a distinct, powerful, active, crawling
motion, by which they move and push aside other bodies much greater
than themselves. 2. The projection of an organ similar to the foot
of a snail, and whose action assists in crawling. may be directly
recognized in many forms. 3. By a close examination all the sper
turcs may be seen, which may be considered as apertures of nutrition,
of generation, and of motion. 4. Internal organs may be distin
guished, which may be compared with the polygastric bladders of the
infusoria, and others with the crowned ovary. 5. The infusoria are
propagated, besides the highly probable egg formation, not by buds,
as in plants, but also distinctly by separation, smethod of propagation
which is wanting in all decided planbformations, but which is observed
in many decided animals. 6. Some forms, whose motion is very
slow, or which attach themselves, like oysters. aﬂ'ord no reason why
they are therefore to be considered as plants."
5
on, PHYSIOLOGY 0F siax. 323
passing interest to one and all the inhabitants of
the surface of this globe)“ The whole crust on
which we dwell has been composed by them, and on
' “ The millions of the tribe of infusoria have often been men
tioned, and spoken of almost without consideration of their number,
perhaps because little belief is entertained of their corporeality.
They have often been regarded as drops of oil. and appearances of
various kinds; but, since the Polirschiefer of Bilin must be acknow
ledged to consist almost entirely of an aggregation of infusoria in
layers, without any connecting medium, these infusoria begin to
acquire a greater importance, not only for science, but for mankind
at large. The Kieselguhrs‘ occur, it is said, only in nests, about the
size of a ﬁst or a head, and probably may he of comparatively recent
origin. With the Polirschict'er it is different; this forms wider
extended layers, containing fossil plants and ﬁshes. A single drug
gist‘s shop in Berlin consumes yearly more than 20 cwt.: the con
sumption, therefore, of infusoria, as tripoli, and for casting moulds,
in Berlin and the environs, may be perhaps estimated at 50 to 60 cwt
yearly, and thence we may in some measure infer the sale in Bilin.
* * " ‘ Passing over the share they have in the Raseneiscn, the
soldier cleans his arms with tripoli; the worker in metal, the lock
smith,and the engraver polish with infusoria, which serve also for
moulds in foundaries. These animals, which are so useful after
death, and form entire rocks, have at present a more special interest
in their individuality. The size of a single one of these infusoria,
which form the Polirschiefer, amounts upon an average, and in the
greater part, to A, of a line, which equals; of the thickness ofahuman
hair, reckoning its average size at ‘1. of a line. The globule of the
human blood, considered at at“, is not much smaller. The blood
globules of a frog are twice as large as one of these animalcules. As
the Polirschiefer of Bilin is slaty, but without cavities, these animal
cules lie closely compressed. In round numbers, about twenty-three
millions of animals would make up a cubic line, and would in fact be
contained in it. There are 1728 cubic lines in a cubic inch, and
‘ “A kind of siliceous paste; from Kiesel, Silas, and Guhr, a
term used in mining, for water carrying dissolved minerals when in a.
thick liquid state."
Y 2
324 THE mscovsmr or THE VITAL ancwns,
them we are still dependent for a footing. Whence,
then, did these minute beings obtain their exis—
tence, and on what does a continuation of that
existence depend?
All matter being diamond,“k and this substance
therefore a cubic inch would contain, on an average, about 4|,000
millions of these animals. On weighing a cubic inch of this mass, 1
found it to be about 2%) grains. Of the 41,000 millions of animals,
187 millions go to a grain, or the siliceous shield of each animalcule
weighs about the 1}, millionth part of a grain.
“ The animnlcules of the Raseneisen are only ml“ line in diameter,
or the A part of the thickness of a human hair, ‘ of the diameter of a
glubule of the human blood, 5 of the blood globule of a frog. A cubic
line of such animal iron-ochre would thus, in the same relation, con
tain one thousand, millions, one cubic inch one billion, and one cube
of nine feet diameter one trillion of living beings. If we suppose
only one-fourth of this multitude to be really present, and take no
notice of the other three-fourths, there yet remain such enormous
numbers alto merit the greatest attention.“-— Prof. Ehrenberg OilFuss‘il
Irgﬁuoria.
' Diamond progresses in quality, from the purest and most pellucid
drop of water to the hardest and most opaque ﬂint.
“ Haematitrs are found in many parts of Europe, sometimes forming
whole mountains. The most extraordinary ores of this kind, both
on account of their forms and of their various and brilliant colours,
are found in the island of Elba, near the coast of Tuscany. The
crystallized ores are here the most beautiful and the most common,
though not to be met with anywhere else. They exhibit various gra
dntions of the ﬁnest colours, as red, violet, blue, green, yellow_
brown, and black; insomuch that, according to Coudrai's expression,
they look like so many clusters of emeralds, sapphires, diamonds,
rubies, and topnzcs. E. Peni and Mongez aﬂinn, that these ores are
mineralized only by the aerial acid; though Coudrai is of opinion,
that they contain sulphur also. Besides these beautiful crystallized
ores, this island contains also many others; being, indeed, little other
than a group of iron mountains. The ores in general produce the
very best kind of iron."--Ency. Britannica.
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 325
having from its very nature a tendency to form
itself into a central mass or primitive egg, that egg
being the centre and most solid portion of the
sphere, would, of course, become the focus of all
attractionﬁ“ and collect around its surface matter,
in parts, like unto itself. Thus would the circum
ference of the primitive egg be studded with eggs,
which, by pressing in every direction upon the
parent egg, would cause it to stagnate or become
degenerated, and in its nature changed. From
cold to heat it gradually progresses, and generates
a new form of matter, the ﬂuid. Thus is the solid
egg changed, from the perfectly compressed and
most minute atom, into a ﬂuid state, expanding,
swelling, and causing a succession of steam to
arise from the centre to the boiling point or
circumference, and to fall externally from thence
to the bottom or freezing point, gradually drawing
the outward bound eggs, by means of the apex,
into its stomach, and forming there a new centre
or foundation egg in the midst of a minute ﬂuid
ocean.
Thus is formed to each part of the tissue a pro
gressive line of gravitation, similar to that on the
larger scale of the earth itself: the apex, or lowest
portion of which, is always the seat of electricity,
* “ The interior of the smallest animaleula: consists of bundles of
silica or crystalline needles, in which there is no contractility.“—
Dr. Grunt.
326 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
the highest, that of galvanism,—the heart or centre
being the cavity whence the materials are
ejected. The matter at the electric point is ever
in a crystalline condition, and attracts solid par
ticles analogous to itself, by electricity preserving
the mass above in a ﬂuid state of motion; this
ﬂuid matter forming a medium between the solid
parts and the aeriform animal boundary“ by which
the whole sphere is netted together.
Thus were seas ﬁrst formed, but small indeed in
comparison with their present bulk. The ﬁrst ﬂuid
in every sphere is produced by the combustion in its
centre or cavity, and being ejected thence, creates
its own aeriform or elastic boundary. The White,
the Red, and the Black, were, probably, denomi
nations given in the ﬁrst instance to these ﬂuids
from a preponderance of the diamond, iron, or
carbon, entering into the composition of the
several distinct races of animal matter of which
they were composed; the sea being the active
source of all animal lifexf'
' “ In all our journey through the Alps, as Well when we climbed
as when we descended them, we had still a river running along with
the road.“——Addis0n.
1' Pnssomesou or run Bucx Wn'rsna.—“ In the upper part of
the region of this river (the Orinoko, in South America), between
the third and fourth north parallels (of latitudes), nature has several
times displayed the singular phenomenon which has been named
black waters. The water of the Atahaco, Temi, Tuamani, and
Guainia is ofa coffee-colour. Under the shade of the woods of the
palm-tree their velour becomes of a deep black. but in transparent
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 327
The primary egg thus connecting itself by layers
of its own material with the surrounding particles,
gradually progresses to a state of perfect ﬂuidity,
forming to itself a distinct_sphere, of which each
part is governed by the same laws, and has similar
modes of reproduction with the primary or central
particle.
vessels it becomes of a golden yellow colour; the images of the
southern constellations are reﬂected in it with singular brilliancy.
The absence of crocodiles and of ﬁsh, is greater degree of coolness, a.
smaller number of musquitoes, and a healthier sir, distinguish the
region of the black rivers. They probably derive their colour from
a solution of carburet of hydrogen, resulting from (the decom
position of) the multitudes of plants that cover the soil through
which they ﬂow.“—Maltc Brim.
“ At two in the afternoon, on the 29th," Captain Cook says, “ we
made the land of the Cape of Good Hope. The Table Mountain, which
is 0\ er the Cape Town, bore s.s.s., distance 12 0r [4 leagues. At this
time it was a good deal obscured by clouds, otherwise it might, from
its height, have been seen at a much greater distance. We now crowded
all the sail we could, thinking to get into the bay before dark. But
when we found this could not be accomplished, we shortened sail, and
spent the night standing 08' and on. Between eight and nine o'clock,
the whole sea, within the compass of our sight, became at once, as it
were, illuminated, or, what the seamen call, all on ﬁre. This appear
allot: of the sea, in some degree, is very common; but the cause is
not so generally known. Mr. Banks and Dr. Solsnder had satisﬁed
me that it was occasioned by sea insects. Mr. Forster, hovever,
seemed not to favour this opinion. I, therefore, had some buckets
of water drawn up from along-side the ship, which we found full of
an innumerable quantity of small globular insects, about the size of a
common pin‘s head, and quite transparent. There was no doubt of
their being living animals, when in their own proper element, though
we could not perceive any life in them. Mr. Forster, whose pro
vince it is more minutely to describe things of this nature, was not
well satisﬁed with the cause of the sea llluminatlon.“—-Cupt.Cook's
Voyage towards the 80"”! Pole. '
328 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Thus we have sea animals produced from land
eggs, and new lands rising up again from the sea. by
the continual deposition of the sea animals}
" New lsLANn.—-“The Semaphore of Marseilles states, on the autho
rity of the captain of a brig sailing between Trafani and Girgemi,
that an island was formed by a volcanic eruption in the middle of
July, in that part of the Mediterranean. The phenomena are repre
sented as being very striking. An immense mass of water was
thrown up to the height of 60 feet, accompanied by a aulphureous
smoke and great noise. The result of the sub-marine explosion is
an island, in 37° 6' north lat. and 10° 26' east long. from the meridian
of Paris. It is an active volcano, with a crater in its centre, whence
lava ﬂows. The sea all around is a hundred ﬁsthoms deep.“—-Literm~_,/
Gazette.
A new Island in the Mediterranean.--“ in a formernumber we spoke
of the appearance of a new island in the sea. The following is an
extract ofa letter, dated Malta, August 5, 1832, giving further par
ticlllars:—‘ A new volcano has made its appearance between Pontel
laria and Sciacca. The ndmiral‘s tender, the Hind cutter, returned
here the day before yesterday, having taken thither and brought back
Captain Senhouse, ﬂag-captain of the St. Vincent, who brings the
account that the island was rapidly increasing in size; when he left
it was from a mile and a quarter to a mile and a half in circumference,
and from $0 to 250 feet in height. The volcano was busily at work
throwing up a vast quantity of materials, which resemble the lava
from Vesuvius, being quite soft when fresh out of the crater, and
becoming hard shortly after. The fall of the ashes rendered it diﬂicult
to land, but Captain Senhouse managed to do so, and planted the
British colours, taking possession in the King's name. This, I
imagine, was merely a matter of precaution, and to prevent any other
nation (America for instance) from claiming a prior right to it,
should it ever become an habitable island. I should not wonder if it
disappears, as Sabrina did.‘ "
“There are now existing four active causes which contribute to
alter the surface of our continents; the min: and thaws which lower
our lofty mountains, and cast their relics at our feet; the ﬂowing
waters, which carry away their remains, and leave them in places
where they retard their currents; the sea. which saps the base of the
lofty coasts, and which forms the beach on which it casts the sand
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 329
each alternately acting for the assistance of the
other.
The ﬁrst race of animals consisted of the sponge
hills; and ﬁnally, the volcanoes, which perforate the solid layers, and
elevate or scatter on the surface the masses which they vomit forth.“
--Cum'er.
“ The memoir of Dolomieu on Egypt tends to prove that, in the
time of Homer, the tongue of land on which Alexander built his city
was not then in existence; and that they were able to navigate from
the Island of Pharos into the gulf, and since called Lake Mareotis;
and that this gulf was then from ﬁfteen to twenty leagues long, as
stated by Menelaus. The nine centuries, then, between Homer and
Strabo were suﬁicicnt to bring matters to the state described by the
latter, and to reduce this gulf to a lake of ﬁfteen miles long.
“ The cities of Rosetta and Damietta, built on the sea shores at
these months (of the Nile), less than a thousand years since, are now
two leagues distant from it. According to Demaillet, it would only
have required twenty-six years to form a cape half a league in length
in front of Rosetta.“—-Ib.
“ Any person may observe in Holland and Italy how rapidly the
Rhine, the Po, and the Arno, now that they are conﬁned within
dykes, raise their bed; how their mouths approach the sea by forming
promontories at their sides: and can judge by these facts how few
centuries these waves have employed in depositing the ﬂat plains
which they at present traverse.
“The Adige and P0 are now more elevated than all the land which
lies between them; and it is only by opening again new channels in
the low lands, which they formerly deposited, that we can avert the
disasters with which they now threaten us.
“The same causes have produced the same eﬁ'ects along the
branches of the Rhine and the Mouse; and thus the richest districts
of Holland have perpetually before them the frightful sight of their
waters suspended above their soil at a height of twenty or thirty feet.“
--Ih.
“ Many cities, which at well-known periods of history were
ﬂourishing sea-ports, are now several leagues inland; many have
even been ruined in consequence of this change of situation. Venice
can scarcely preserve the lagoons which separate her from the con
330 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
or polype, of which all the varieties being united,
formed but one animal z“t from the decomposition of
this animal (or whole generation in one) have
tinent; and, in spite of every exertion, she will one day become united
to the mainland.
“ We learn from Strabo, that, in the time of Augustus, Ravenns
was amongst the lagoons, as Venice now is; and now Ravenna is a league
from the shore. bpina was founded by the Greeks on the sea-shore;
yet, in Strabo‘s time, it was ninety stadia from it, and it is now
destroyed. Adria in Lombardy, which conferred its title on the sea,
and of which it formed, upwards of twenty centuries and more, the
principal port, is now six leagues from it. Fortis has even reckoned
it probable that, at a period still more remote, the Euganian moun
tains may have been islands."-Ib.
“ The late M. Bremontier, inspector of bridges and roads, who
made great researches on downs, calculated their progress at sixty feet
annually; and in some places at seventy-two. According to his cal
culations, they (speaking of those in the Bay of Biscay) will reach
Bourdcaux in two thousand years; and, from their present site,
rather more that four thousand years must have elapsed since their
accumulation commenced."—-Ib.
' Zoopllytes.—“ The polypi are an extensive order of animals,
and include the inhabitants of corals, madrcpores, sponges, 8w. Each
hole in the coral, madrepore, or sponge is called a polype, in conse
quence of its being surrounded with the radiating ﬁlaments, or ten
tacula as they are called. There is very great diﬂ'erence in this tribe
of animals. Many of the corals are joined together like the branches
of a tree, leaving lateral apertures for the propulsion of the tentacula
of each separate pnlype ; one of the most remarkable of this class, is the
isis hippuris, and the stem, is composed of membranous and calca
reous parts disposed alternately, composing a jointed structure, and
is capable of great ﬂexure: this is commonly called jointed coral.
After a certain time the gemmulcs break 08' from the stem and take
root, a stem grows, and shortly after branches shoot out with fresh
polypi. This lower class of zoophytes are in many respects analogous
to the vegetable creation, but still the difference is very considerable.
It is a question whether the several thousand animalcules, apparently
living on one branch, are animated by the same volition: in point of
fact, the question is one of individuality. Are we to consider the
0a, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 33]
been produced, in succession, races of polypi of a
higher and improved species, still united as before
in one: animal after animal (with its entire genera
many thousand animals in the madrepore as being actuated all at the
same time with the same motives? He thought that experience was
against the supposition that there was but one animal."—Dr. Roget‘s
Lodz/res, Newspaper paragr'uph.
“ By the slow but constant destruction of rocks and mountains
new and productive soils are formed to renovate the surface of the
globe, and prepare it for the support of animal life: this appears to
be the ﬁnal causefor which the world was created, and to which all ter
restrial changes ultimately refer.“-—Bakrwell.
“ It is, however, a curious but undoubted fact, that no incon
siderable portion of the earth‘s surface has been formed by organic
secretion, and the process is still going on rapidly and extensively in
the Southern Ocean. According to the observations of voyagers,
islands and reefs of coral rocks are raised from vast depths in the
course of a few years. Thus, millions of minute marine polypi are
preparing future abodes for other classes of animals of larger size,
and living in another element. From whence do these innumerable
mophytes and shell-ﬁsh procure the lime that, mixed with a small
portion of animal matter, forms the solid covering by which they are
protected? Have they the power of separating it from other sub
stances, or the still more extraordinary faculty of producing it from
simple elements? The latter I consider as more probable, for the
polypi which accumulate rocks of coral from unfathomable depths
have no power of locomotion; their growth is rapid, and the quantity
of calcareous matter they produce in a short space of time can
scarcely be supposed to exist in the waters of the ocean to which they
have access, as sea-water contains but a minute portion oflime.
“It is now ascertained that lime, and the other earths are com
pounds of oxygen, united with metallic bases; and the brilliant dis
coveries of Sir H. Davy respecting the metallic nature of ammonia
would lead to the conclusion that the metallic bases of all the alkalies
and alkaline earths, which have many properties in common, may,like
ammonia, be compounds of hydmgen and azote, but differently com
bined. Now, it is well known that hydrogen and azote, which exist
as elementary constituent parts of almost all animal substances, may
be derived from water and the atmosphere; and should the compound
332 THE mscovsnv or 'rna vrrar. PRINCIPLE,
tion complete in itself,) arising from the decom
position or destruction of the whole race or body
of its predecessor. Thus has matter progressed
nature of the metallic bases of the earths be ascertained, the formation
of lime by animal secretion will admit of an easy explamtion_"_
Bakewell's Geology.
Coral. " A bit of ornament, and a bauble it is, I grant you; but
remember that the coral insect, though a tiny little gentleman, is
more important, in one respect, than Columbus himself. He is not
a ﬁnder of islands and continents, but a founder of them. This thing,
though but recently admitted to be a living creature, encroaches on
the ocean itself—diminishes his dominion—increases the proportion
of habitable land on our planet, and contributes, with the submarine
volcano, to change the aspect of the world. The volcano, as an agent
of nature, does his business with terrible despatch; he heaves up
the bottom of the sea to a moderate distance from its surface, and
there leaves a submarine rocky bank; but in athousand instances this
bank would never emerge from the ocean as an island, unless the
little coral-insect set to work in building his house upon every hard
substance that he can ﬁnd at the bottom of the sea. When the ﬁrst
generation ofthese animalcules ceases to live, their structures adhere to
each other by virtue either of the glutinous remains within them, or of
some property in salt-water; and the intestines being gradually ﬁlled up
by sand and shells, a mass of rock is at length formed. Future races of
these animalcules erect their habitations upon the rising bank, and
die in their turn, to increase, but principally to elevate this menu
ment of their wonderful labours. An able voyager (Captain Flinders),
who has written on the formation of coral reefs, observes, that ‘the
care taken to work perpendicularly in the earlier stages marks a sur
prising instinct in these diminutive creatures; for when their wall of
coral, which is erected for the most part in situations where the winds
are constant, is arrived at the surface, it affords a shelter, to the
leeward of which their infant colonies may be safely sent.‘ To be
constantly covered with water seems to be necessary to the exustence
of the coral insects, and, therefore, their habitations are always under
the sea‘s surface. But above their habitations matter accumulates
till it overtops the waves at low water; and this matter being exposed
to the action of the air, loses its adhesive property, salt plants take
root upon it, and a soil begins to be formed. Ere long the new bank
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 333
from the most simple up to its present compli
cated organization, until we have obtained a gradual
formation of all the primitive rocks in which were
bred, nurtured, and brought into existence, that
most perfect work of the creation—Man.“t
is visited by the sea-bird; by and by the nut of the cocoa, or the pan
danus, is thrown ashore, and the wearied land-bird, resting his wings
on the soil, deposits on it the seeds of herbs and trees. Every tide
and every gale adds something to the bank, and it gradually spreads
into an island of luxuriant vegetation. Man comes at last to take
possession of the new estate, and he may well say, that the architecture
of an insect has laid the foundations of his property."—Cumpli¢ll's
Lettersfrom the South, in the New Monthly.
“ An extraordinary phenomenon presented in the Southern Ocean
may render our settlements in New South Wales of still more
eminent importance. A SIXTH Conrmss'r is in the very act
of growth before our eyes! The Paciﬁc is spotted with islands
through the immense space of nearly ﬁfty degrees of longitude, and
as many of latitude. Every one of these islands seems to be merely a
central spot for the formation of coral banks, which, by a perpetual
progress, are rising from the unfathomable depths of the sea. The
union of a few of these masses of rock shapes itself into an island, the
seeds of plants are carried to it by the birds, or by the waves; and
from the moment that it over-tops the tratrrx it is covered with vegetation.
The new island constitutes, in its turn, a centre of growth to another
circle. The great pewers of nature appear to be still in peculiar
activity in this region; and to her tardier process she sometimes takes
the assistance of the volcano and the earthquake. From the south of
New Zealand to the north of the Sandwich Islands, the waters abso
lutely teem with these future seats of civilization. Still the coral
insect, the diminutive builder of all these mighty piles, is at work, the
ocean is intersected with myriads of those lines of foundation; and
when the rocky substructure shall have excluded the sea, then will
come the dominion of man."-Chumbers's Edinburgh Journal.
' “ Life, which sought to possess itself of this globe, seems in these
early periods to have struggled against the inert nature which ﬁrst
predominated; it was a long time ere it entirely gained the mastery
334 THE mscovanv OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
The successive links formed at the apex, by elec
tricity causing an elevation of the superior partﬂ“
it contended for, and appropriated to itself the right of continuing
and raising the solid coating of the earth.“—('uvier.
’ “ Most of the active volcanoes being situated near the sea or great
lakes, we may infer that water is in some way necessary to the pro
duction of volcanic phenomena. Boiling fountains and hot springs
may be classed with volcanic phenomena; for it can scarcely be
doubted that the Grysers in Ireland, which throw up columns of
boiling water at intervals, to the height of seventy or eighty feet, are
occasioned by the subterrancous ﬁres which extend under that island;
to the same cause must be ascribed the boiling fountains in the island
of St. Michael‘s. one of the Azores. The hot springs in the vicinity
of the Pyrenees, and in Italy, and other parts of the world, may, u ith
much probability, be supposed to have a similar source of heat. The
unvaried equality of their temperature for centuries, proves that this
source liesfar below the agency of those causes which operate on the surface.
It has been remarked that hot springs are most frequent in volcanic
and basaltic countries.“—Bakewell.
Hot Springs at St. inrhuel‘s, one of the Azores. “ Volcanoes are
supposed to exist internally, of which, indeed, the fountains in the
Valley of Faman and other parts of the island, are evident symptoms.
This valley is about twenty-ﬁve miles north and east of Porto del
Gardo, and has on its south-east side a. small village called (‘arcius or
Farnan. On a small elevation, about a quarter of a mile square, are
a number of hillocks, on which the action of ﬁre is everywhere
evident. The minerals on the spot are pyrites, lava, pumice, marble,
and clay ofdilTerent colours, ochre, iron-ore, and calcareous earth,
mixed with alum and sulphur. There are also a number of boiling
fountains, and many cold springs. The hot springs form several
streams, and in their course they smoke and omit sulphureous steams;
in a calm day the vapour i seen rising to s. great height. The
largest of these boiling fountains, called the Faldeira, is nearly thirty
feet in diameter, but its depth is unknown. lts water is scalding hot,
and in a constant state of ehullition, emitting a vapour highly sul
phurcous, and smelling like burnt gunpowder; its taste communicates
an acescent pungency, and its sediment is a clayey substance of a light
blue colour. At a few yards' distance, behind a ridge of lava, and at
the bottom of a projecting rook, is another boiling fountain, called the
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 335
and forming clefts and divisions aboveﬁ“ on which
the solar matter pressing downwards, produces
every variety of colour, form, and quality.
Forga, or Forge; this is ranked as the second fountain: its surface
is seldom visible, from the dense sulphureous vapour; it boils with
great violence, and sends forth a great noise, throwing up quantities
of a ﬁne glutinous blue clay, mixed with vapour, which is scattered
about, and observed to incrust the rock and other neighbouring
objects. These are the principal fountains, but there are several
others; and vapour is seen issuing out of the crevices of rocks in many
places. By applying the ear to some of the ﬁssures, the noise of
boiling water is distinctly heard; and from others the water is at
intervals squirted out, scalding those who may unwarily approach too
near. The temperature of these fountains is not uniform; some are
as high as boiling heat, others more moderate, and some very cold;
the appearance of the water in some is limpid and transparent, in
others turbid, of a white or reddish hue, all generally depositing a red
or blue Flag/1y substance. (‘rystals of alum and sulphur are here found
in abundance, some of them beautiful and curious; and when the
vapour issues and erudn from the chinks and ﬁssures ofthc rock, some of
the crystals arefrom one to two inches A small river runs through
this valley, and on its edge, in several places, there are hot springs,
with, at times, a perceptible ebullition in the middle of the stream
from these springs. This river deposits an ochrcy sediment on the
stones and pebbles of its bed; in some places the sediment is of a
green colour, not unlike martial vitriol; and the bushes on the banks
are incrusted over with sulphur and alum. The taste of these waters
varies. In some it is that of a strong impregnation of the vitriolic
acid, in others of the carbonic; in others the taste is aluminous or
fcrruginous; while others, again, are perfectly insipid. The country
people, in cooking, save fuel by those fountains. They place their
culinary utensils over the hot springs, or upon some of the steaming
crevices; and their cattle, by instinct or experience, approach these
places to clear themselves of vermin, by standing in the sulphureous
steam.“— From the Journal of the Geographical Societyqol. 4, part 2.
“ The substances omitted or ejected from volcanoes are either solid,
ﬂuid. or volatile.“—Bakcwell.
‘ “The par-tings or divisions in rocks, which may probably be
denominated rents, are distinct from those which are the effect of
336 THE mscovenr or rm; VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Our atmosphere is a composition of living ani
mals, which , having worked their way up to their
locomotive state of existence, move in all directions
from the solid stratum of the earth to the boundary
of its atmosphere, or point where the sun's ma
terials are deposited: the region beyond the
earth's atmosphere being the pure oxygen, or snow,
which is ever gravitating to us.
All insects are formed chieﬂy from charcoal,
having merely ﬂuid diamond suﬂicient to cement
their particles together: and they hover about all
larger animals; indeed, the upper atmosphere is
wholly composed of them, and the falling oxygen
causing them to inﬂame, combustion is continually
going on.“l
Thus the boundary of this earth, or skin of the
crystallization, and may be distinguished by their irregularity, rough
ness, and the indeterminate manner in which they intersect the stone.“
— Hula well.
' “ In the north-eastern parts of Siberia, according to the descrip
tion of Gmclin, the northern lights were observed to “ begin with single
bright pillars, rising in the north, and almost at the same time in the
north-east, which gradually increasing, comprehend a large space of
the heavens, rush about from place to place with incredible velocity,
and ﬁnally, almost cover the whole sky up to the zenith, and produce
an appearance a: if a vast tent were expanded in the heavens, glittering
with gold, rubies and sapphires. A more beautiful spectacle cannot
be painted, but whoever should see such a northern light for the ﬁrst
time could not behold it without terror. For, however ﬁne the illu
mination may be, it is attended, as I have learned from the relation
of many persons, with such a hissing, crackling, and rushing noise
through the air, as if the largest ﬁreworks were played 08'. To
describe what they then hear, they make use of the expression, ‘the
raging host is passing.“ The hunters who pursue the blue and white
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 337
terrestrial foetus, may be considered as divided into
three distinct forms of matter, the solid or mineral,
the ﬂuid or vegetable, and the aeriform or animal.
The ﬁrst or lowest of the three portions is con
stituted of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, (with
hydrogen latent); the second of carbon, hydrogen,
and oxygen, (with the hydrogen active); the
third of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, (the hydro
gen being locomotive): it is the compression or
foxes in the conﬁnes of the icy sea, are often alarmed in their course
by these northern lights. 'l‘heir dogs are then so frightened that
they will not move, but lie olvstiuately on the ground till the noise
has passed. (‘ommonly, clear and calm weather follows this kind of
northern light. This account ha“ been conﬁrmed by the testimony of
many, who have spent parts of several years in these northern regions,
and inhabited diﬂi-rent countries from the Yenisei to the Lena; so
that no doubt ofits truth can remain. This seems, indeed, to be the
rod birth-place of the Aurora Borealis.“
“ A person who resided seven years at Hudson's Bay, conﬁrms M.
Gmelin's relation of the ﬁne appearance and brilliant colour of the
northern lights; and particularly of their rushing noise, which he
afﬁrms he has frequently heard; and he compares it to the sound pro
duced by whirling round a stick which is fastened by the end to a
piece ol'string A similar noise has likewise been noticed in Sweden.
Mr. Nairne also, being in Northampton at the time when the northern
lights were remarkably bright, is conﬁdent he heard a hissing or
whining sound. Mr. Belknap, of Dover, in New Hampshire, North
America, testiﬁes to this fact. M. (‘avallo says, that the cracking
n iise is distinctly audible, and that he has heard it more than once.
Similar lights, called Aurora: Australes, have been long since
ohsen ed towards the South Pole, and their existence has been lately
ascertained by Mr. Forster, who assures us, iii-“t in his voyage round
0116 world with Captain Cook, he observed them in high southern
latitudes, though attended with phenomena somewhat different from
those which are seen here.“-—'1'he Doctor Illugazi/u‘.
338 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
condensation of this last form of matter (hydrogen)
which produces every variety of animal life. The
carbon and oxygen falling from the sun, meeting
the ascending atmosphere, an electrical combina
tion takes place, and locomotive animal life is gene
rated. Thus are produced all the parasitical races
of animals, from the minute infusoria to the many
and varied insect tribes: all preying one on the
other, and labouring to eﬂ'ect the destruction of
the internal ftetus or machine—the earth.
Combustion is nothing more than the destruction
of one race of animals to rear up another upon its
ruins! The myriads of insects and feathered ani
mals rising, as carbon, from the hydrogen thrown
off by the earth, are destroyed by the falling
oxygen ﬂ- and thus the atmosphere becomes
' “The great sharpness and clearness of all the outlines of all
these siliceous shields ll plainly appears to have been product-d by an
extraordinary red heat, which has evaporated all organic (particularly
vegetable) carbon.“—l’rg‘essor Ehrenberg 0n Fossil Ivy/isoria.
“ Instead of dividing matter into organized and brute matter, the
general division ought to be into living and dead matter. That brute
malter is nothing but matter produced by the death of animals and
vegetables, might be proved from the enormous quantities of shells,
and other relics of living bodies, which constitute the principal
parts of stones, marbles, clays, marls, earths, turfs, and other sub
stances that are commonly reckoned brute-matter, but are, in reality,
composed of decayed animals and vegetables.“-—Bu 1m.
1' “ The larva of the turnip ﬂy is a small black caterpillar, having
six legs, of about an eighth of an inch in length, being extremely
active, and hopping about with great agility,so asto render it extremely
ll See note, page 3l7.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 339
puriﬁed, to the relief of human vitality.* The de
seending oxygen, ﬁltering through our atmosphere,
destroys these carbonaceous animals, and is depo
sited as the dew-drop on the vegetable kingdom,
to give fresh colour and life throughout all nature.
The verdure of the grass is owing to this. It is this '
oxygen and its accompanying charcoal which pro
duced the primitive rocks. It is this powerful and
diﬁicult to catch. Towards the end of the summer it enters the earth,
and there undergoes the change of form, coming out the pups or
beetle. When ﬁnely powdered lime was sprinkled over the turnips,
Yhe insect evaded it by getting under the leaves, whilst a solution of
sulphate of potash so strong as to destroy vegetation, had no effect in
arresting its ravages. It appeared that where the manure had been
ploughed into the ground, immediately on its being placed in the
field, the ﬂy is found to abound; but that where the manure is placed
on the ground in the autumn, and allowed to remain for a month or
two before it is ploughed in, there are scarcely any ﬂies seen."
' “There is scarce an insect without wings that is not obnoxious
to man. The smallest have the power of annoying him, either by
biting or stinging him; and though each is in itself contemptible,
they become formidable from their numbers. But of all this class
there is none so terrible as the scorpion, whose shape is hideous,
whose size among the insect tribe is enormous, and whose sting is
generally fats .“-— The Doctor Dfagazine.
“The most mischievous animals here (New Zealand), are the small
black sand ﬂies, which are very numerous, and exceedingly trouble
some. Wherever they bite they cause a swelling and intolerable itching,
which at last brings on ulcers like the small-pox."—Captain Cook.
“ What an uncomfortable life must the poor Laplander lead, since,
at certain seasons of the year, the number of insects is so great, that
a candle is no sooner lighted than the ﬂame is extinguished by the
multitudes that ﬂock to it; where, after millions are destroyed,
furnished millions succeed, and renew the unceasing combat! Less
injurious, though equally tormenting, are the musquitoes which
infest the warm climates of Asia and South America. Even in
Britain, which is happily free from these unrelenting invaders, much
z2
340 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
all living oxygen that laid the foundation-stone of
this immense planet: and, by the pressure of
matter constantly increasing at its surface, that
planet has become organized in the threefold
state, solid, ﬂuid, and aeriform, and eventually have
been produced the immense ocean, rivers, lakes,
hills, valleys, islands, and continents.
That there are two grand orders of existence
must be quite evident; an ascending and a descend
ing creation. While the former are working, in
myriads, their insectorial existence, from the centre
of every sphere to the surface; the latter are
descending from the surface to the apex, where they
enter upon an ascending state: the ascending race
is that from which the fabric is reared; the
descending or parasitical, that by which it is
destroyed or decomposedﬁ"
inconvenience is often felt from the sting of the hornet, the wasp, and
the bee; and almost as much from ﬁlthy vermin, especially the bug."
Doctor lift/grains.
' “Parasitieal plants of different species, which attach themselves
to trees and shrubs, feed on their juices, destroy their health, and
ﬁnally their life, abound in all climates." Duvy’s Agricultural ( 'hrmishy.
“ The insect tribes are scarcely less injurious than the parasitical
plants. To enumerate all the animal destroyers and tyrants of the
Vegetable kingdom would he to give a catalogue of the greater number
of the classes in zoology. Every species of plant almost is the peculiar
resting-place, or dominion of some insect tribe; and from the locust,
the caterpillar, and snail, to the minute :Iphis, a wonderful variety of
the inferior insects are nourished, and live by their ravages upon-the
thL'v'lillch world. I have already referred to the lIlSl'Ct which feeds on
the seed-leaf of the turnip: the Hessian ﬂy, still more destrhetive to
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 341
All animal matter progresses the same as the
butterﬂy, which has three distinct successive stages
wheat, has in some seasons threatened the United States with a
famine: and the French government is at this time, (January 1813,)
issuing decrees with a view to occasion the destruction ofthe larvae of
the grasshopper. In general, wet weather is most favorable to the
propagation of mildew, funguses, rust, and the small parasitical
vegetables; dry weather to the increase of the insect tribes.“—Davy‘i
Agricultural Chemistry.
“ There are four different species of the locust which are remarkably
destructive. Almost every year whole provinces, the most fertile in
Asia and Africa, are laid waste by their depredntion. ln Tunis and
Algiers, swarms of the Gryllus Migratorius appear so numerous, that
they darken the face of the sky like a threatening cloud. These per—
nicious animals are wafted there by the southerly winds in the month
of April. In May they take their departure for the interior parts of
the country, to propagate their young; these make their appearance
in their larva or caterpillar state during the month ofJune, when
they commit vast depredations. The ﬁrst columns, which pervade
the country like an army, destroy every green shrub and pile of grass;
and their devastation has not ceased when they are succeeded by other
swarms that press upon their rear, devouring the tender branches and
stalks of plants which their forerunners had left. This dreadful
visitation, which the language of Scripture has justly described as a
plague, does not terminate till the insects have passed into their
winged state, when they ﬂy off, leaving the whole surface ofthe earth
naked and brown, as if scorched by ﬁre.“-—The Doctor Magazine.
“Creatures so small as locusts can strip, during one visitation,
whole forests of their foliage, and destroy every trace of vegetation
throughout an extent of several thousand square miles together; and,
as was the case when the kingdom of Massinissa was thus scourged,
cause upwards of 800,000 persons to die from famine. What are the
ravages of beasts, what the desolation even of earthquakes and volca
noes. when compared to such an unspsring annihilation of men,
hrntes, and plants, by these powers of the air! Neither is our asto
nishment lessened, although its course he turned when We compute
their sums, when we ﬁnd the swarms of these insects to be so vast and
dense as to overshadow large tracts of country, and even to intercept
the light of day. One of these living clouds, which was three whole
342 THE mscovnm' or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
of existence: in each transition or change it deposits
its outward case or shell, which forms the bed, cave,
days and nights, without apparent intermission, passing over Smyrna,
must have been, according to accurate observations made at the time,
three hundred yards in depth, upwards of forty miles in width, and
nearly ﬁve hundred miles in length. Captain Basil Hall calculated,
that the lowest number of locusts in this enormous swarm must have
exceeded 168,608,563,200,000; and, in orderto assist the imagination,
Captain Beaufort determined that this cloud of locusts, which he saw
drifting by when he lay at Smyrna, if formed into a heap, would have
exceeded in magnitude more than a thousand and thirty times the
largest pyramid of Egypt; or, if they had been placed on the ground
close together, they would have encircled the globe with a banda
mile and a furlong wide !‘ Indeed, history tells us, that when these
conquering legions ere subdued by tempests, their bodies occasionally
overspread large tracts of country, even to four feet in depth, and
when driven into the sen, have formed a bank along the shore. three or
four feet in height, and extending for ﬁfty miles." Salurday Magazine.
“Little inferior to the locust in its destructive powers, is the
I’halmna Graminis of Linnmus which destroys the meadows in Sweden.
There the peasants are employed in cutting deep ditches in the surface,
to stop the progress of the larvae as they pass along. If the swarm be
small, this device has the desired effect; but the numbers of these
animals are often so great, that they ﬁll up the trenches, and pass
along over the dead bodies that are buried in them. The Formica
Sacchilifcra is a native of the West Indies, where it pervades the plan
tations of the sugar-cane, entering the plants, and destroying them
when they are tender: after long experience of its depredations, the
inhabitants have never been able to invent a method of destroying
this pernicious animal. In our own country, the turnip-ﬂy, the
butterﬂy, the chafer maggot, the corn insect, t/irips physupus, and the
gooseberry worm, have long committed depredations in the ﬁelds and
gardens, which no invention has hitherto been able wholly to prevent.“
Doctor i‘liugnsine.
“The pine forests of Germany have at various times sustained
enormous injury from the attacks of a small beetle, called Bustrichus
IypOgruphus, 80,0001arva: having been found in one tree; and, as they
feed on the soft inner bark, and multiply thus abundantly, whole
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 343
or resting-place for itself and successors: the
parent-insect labouring to leaven the earth or bed
forests fall a sacriﬁce to their roracity, so that, in the Hartz alone,
the trees destroyed were calculated at a million and a half; and the
inhabitants of this extensive range of country were threatened with a
want of fuel to continue their miningr and smelting operations, and
consequently with ruin, entirely dependent as they were upon those
branches of the useful arts. Subsequently tuese B'Islrn‘hi, when
arrived at their perfect state, in the form of winged beetles, migrated
in swarms into Suabia and Franconia, there to commit similar
ravages. At length, after repeated injuries, the powers of nature
interfered to mitigate the evil, which want of Stlt’lltlﬁc knowledge,“
we shall presently shew, had allowed to gain so alarming a head.
Between 1784 and l789, in consequence of a succession of cold and
moist seasons, the numbers of this scourge were sensiny diminished:
it appeared again, however, in 1790; and, so late as I796, there was
great reason to fear for the few ﬁr trees that were left.
“About sixteen years ago, the elm trees in St. James's and Hyde
Parks suﬂ'ered much from a similar attack, and whole rows were
rapidly being thinned and disappearing, both in the Mall and Bird
cage Walk. As the persons who had the charge of the plantation
were entirely ignorant of the true cause of the mischief, and as it was
clear that the trees died in consequence of being completely stripped
of their bark, rewards were at ﬁrst offered for the discovery of the
delinquents who so mischievously barked them; but these were oﬂi-red
in vain. It was observed, however, (and the observation claims some
credit for its ingenuity,) that no more of any tree was barked from
the ground than what was easily within the reach of a soldier's
bayonet; and this was sufﬁcient to throw suspicion on some unfor
tunate recruits, of whom more than one was arrested, without pro
ducing any diminution of the evil. In rain, too, were persons em
ployed to sit up during whole nights, watching for the enemy; the
bark continued to be found every morning at the roots of the trees,
and the park-keepers, after all their trouble, could only conclude that
the bark fell off in consequence of somethng being placed on the
trunk: in the day time. About the same time the clms in the grove
at ('amberwell, near London, were observed to be undergoing a similar
process of destruction; and the proprietors being equally ignorant
ofits cause as in the instance just mentioned, the injury was ascribed
344 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
the production of a successor or future species,
the seed of which, being contained within its own
to the etl'ects of gas escaped from the pipes for lighting the road,
which had just been laid down; and legal proceedings were actually
commenced, for the removal of the nuisance, against the gas company
which had undertaken the supply. Entomologists, it is true, Were
aware that the operations of insects were the cause of all this mischief;
but unfortunately they were not believed until the disease had reached
that pitch which threatened to make remedy hopeless. But at last a
naturalist was consulted, and he at once discovered that an insect,
called the Hyleu'nus drstructor, had taken up its abode in the parks,
and legions of little fellows were quietly and constantly at work,
secretly proceeding in their labours of destruction, in spite and in
deﬁance of Lord Sydney's denunciations. But not only did Mac
Lean discover the cause of this evil; be, in the true spirit of philo
sophy, likewise directed a remedy to be applied, and these subtle
miners became at once obedient to the voice of science, although they
had deﬁed the rangers threats, to proaecute them with the utmost
severity of the law."—Snmrduy lllaguzine.
“The honey-dew," says Mr. Thomas Hitt, in his work on the
management of Fruit Trees, “ is a glutinous substance, very prejudicial
to many kinds of fruit trees, for it contracts the minute vessels oftheir
most tender parts, and prevents their imbibing and perspiring such
ﬂuids as are required in vegetable life. A few days after the honey
dew appears, you may discover small insects on the underside of the
leaves that are shrivelled, almost without motion; yet the heat of one
ﬁne day will make them visibly increase both in bulk and strength,
and likewise in number." He adds, the honey-dew “ retards the motion
of the sap at the extremity of the branches, and this prevents the fruit
below from coming to any tolerable perfection, and damages the
young branches to such a degree, that they are never after capable of
bearing good fruit. Besides, many trees are entirely killed thereby,
if proper methods are not used to prevent it. Though different kinds
of smother ﬂies, or those of ditl'erent colours, are found upon different
sorts of trees, yet as they are all either bred from, or feed upon the
honey-dew, all trees require the same care and management, to prom rve
them from these evils; for no tree prospers well when either the
honey-dew or smother-ﬂies are on the extremities of its branches.
“There is scarcely a plant that is not the peculiar habitat of one or
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 345
sphere by every organized animal, is always
ascending from the earth-bed, and forming an
more distinct species, and often the same plant is infested by several
species. The oak is frequented by a variety of other insects besides
the numerous species of cynips, nor is this a solitary example, for it
happens also to other plants. Furthermore, the insects themselves,
or the diseases they produce, frequently become very important articles
of food, medicine, and commerce: for example, the norm (the cochincal
insect), the lac insect, and the rant/saris (Spanish ﬂy), the gall apples
of the Silvia pomafera (the apple-bearing sage), and the nut galls of
the Levant."
“ The belief that the disease called the itch, owed its origin to an
irsect, is by no means recent. The French term for the disease isgu/c,
which etymologists tell us is derived from the Latin word gulla, a
nutgall; and the production of this astringent substance, used so much
in the manufacture of ink, as well as other purposes not less impop
tant, is occasioned by exactly similar means.
“They are excrescences on a species of oak, called by botanists
quercus infccton'a. At the season of the year, when the young shoots
make their appearance, a small insect (cynips qucmufolii) deposits its
eggs in them; when the maggot is hatched it produces an excrescencc
of the surrounding parts, nearly of a spherical form, which is the
' gall-nut; when mature, the maggot eats its way out, to undergo the
ordinary but singular transmutations of insects of this kin:l."-Ib_
“ In the observations of Mr. Brown on the Raﬂlrsia, he remarks,
that it is not common for parasitic plants to ﬁx indiscriminatelv on
the roots or branches of their stocks, as is supposed to be the case ivith
the Rqﬂlmia, and that plants parasitic on roots are chieﬂy distin
guishable by the imperfect development of their leaves, and the entire
absence of green colour, and their embryo not only minute, but appa
rently imperfectly developed. The modes of union between a parasite
and its supporter or stock, vary in different genera and species of this
class of vegetables. Some, as in the misletoe and Rqﬂ'lesiu, depend on
the stalk for nourishment, during the whole of their existence; others,
as in the common broom rape, are originated in the soil, and, after.
wards, when they have attached themselves to their stock, and in
their more advanced state, produce roots of their own. In some cases
the connexion between the parasite and the stock is such as can only
346 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
enlarged and more perfect sphere above, inclosing
the parent-insect and its earth-bed, as ashes, within
the new circle.
Sir Charles Bell says, that “the living and
dead tissues are very different.” It is the dead
tissue which forms the egg or seed-bed. Eggs
may be divided into three species:
1st. The black egg, or seed of the infusoria or
lowest animals.
2d. The red or improved grade, forming the
annelida.
3d. The white or perfect, which produces the
articulata or animals, (forming an irregular crusta
ceous mass.)
This earth is one continued series of all the
parts of man; it is composed from his body, par
ticle after particle being thrown oﬂ‘ and collected;
so that it is formed by decomposition.
The granite rocks may be considered as denoting
the peculiar line of gravity in every sphere; these
always grow perpendicularly to the surface, and
were, prior to the ﬂood, inhabited by the primitive
be explained in the supposition that the germinating seed of the para
site excites a speciﬁc action in the stock; and the result of which is a
formation of a structure, either wholly or in part derived from the
root, and adapted to the support and protection of the undeveloped
parasite; analogous, therefore, to the production of galls by the
puncture of insects. On this supposition may be explained the con
nexion between the ﬂower of the Raﬂicsia, and the root from which
it springs.“—Chambers's Journal.
5
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 347
or black races: the destruction of those produced
the secondary formations, inhabited by the red or
improved grade, whieh last have been decomposed
to form the white rocks with the present more
perfect generation; the one ascending as the other
descends in the scale of lifeﬁ"
All the different strata, forming the beds of this
earth, have, at different periods, been the coating of
land animals, and the crustacea of ﬁsh.
It is a law of matter, that every animal from
the lowest to the highest grade shall have a sphere
of its own for the protection of itself, and the repro
duction of its species or kind; and that each suc
cessive race shall be an improvement on its prede
cessor, until it has arrived at the highest progres
' “ Neither is there any remains of man. All the bones of the
human race which we have spoken of, have been the result of accident,
and, besides, their number is extremely small, which it certainly would
not be if men had then been established in the countries inhabited by
these animals. Where then was the human race? Did the last and
most perfect work of the (Trentor exist nowhere? Did the animals
which now accompany him on earth, and of which there are no jbssil
remains to be traced, surround him? Have the lands in which they
12 red together been swallowed up, when those which they now inhabit,
and of which a great inundation might have destroyed the anterior
population, were again left dry!“-—C1wier, On the Clubs.
“1 do not wish to conclude that man did not exist previously to
this eponh. He might have inhabited some conﬁned tract of country,
whence he repeopled the world after these terrible events; perhaps,
the places in which he dwelt have been entirely swallowed up, and his
bones buried at. the bottom of the present sens, with the exception of
the small number of individuals who have propagated the species."
Ibid.
348 THE mscovnnv or THE.VITAL PRINCIPLE,
sive power its species is capable of attaining, when
a retrograde-motion in the animal takes place, and
an imperceptible degeneracy comes on, bringing
with it a gradual decay, old age, and death: putre
faction succeeds, and ﬁnally a separation of all
its parts, which gravitate and fall to the earth
again, as seed, for a new succession of a more per
fect generation. Each generation or race of animals
having a sphere of its own, this earth is a con
tinued series of concentrated spheres, ﬁnally rising
up to the apparently complicated structure of man:
his body being based on the scum, froth, or lava
occasioned by their puriﬁcation, and enclosing in
itself all the materials necessary to form the seed
of his own sphere and create to himself a genera
tion of perfect animals, after his own nature, the
machine—man, concentrating and containing within
his own circle every organized animal. The out
ward form of the existing animal is but the press,
to harden, consolidate, and mould the internal parts
into the perfect man, its future state of existence.
All, all is man—ascending and descending alter
nately in the scale.
Thus, all living organized superior bodies are
formed from whole organiZed inferior animal bodies :
their dwelling-case or membrane consisting of dis
united parts, which are continually separated and
thrown off from the interior. All living animals, by
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 349
this means censtantly changing their coating of
skin, form again into masses living eggs, from which
inferior animals are produced; the lowest grade
being built from one egg,'——the highest man from
all. Every animal generates eggs sufﬁcient for the
propagation of a certain number of" its own species.
When those eggs are deposited, the animal gradu
ally becomes callous and dies away, its body or
carcase, by returning to its primitive state of crys
tallization and repose, forming the foundation-stone
for a succeeding generation of a higher species of
animal structure}
Man is made up of parts, each part being itself
an animal or living seed, ascending in the scale of
his own creation up to a certain size, and descending
' During the course of his experiments on the generation of insects,
Redi “ ascertained the curious fact, that when the common ﬂy dies, it
serves as in nest for its own species, equally with any other kind of dead
ilesh.“——T/|c Doctor illagrlzim‘.
“ The most insigniﬁcant insects and reptiles are of much more con
sequence, and have much more inﬂuence in the economy of nature,
than the inaccurate are aware of; and are mighty in their eﬂ'cct from
their minuteness, which renders them less an object of attention; and
from their numbers and fecundity. Earthworms, though in appear
ance a small and despicable link in the chain of nature, yet, if lost,
would make a lamentable chasm. For some quadrupcds which are
almost entirely supported by them, worms seem to he the great pro
moters of vegetation, which would proceed but slowly without them,
by boring, perforating, and loosening the soil, and rendering it per
viuus to rains and the ﬁbres of plants, by drawing straws and stalks
"(leaves into it; and most ofall, by throwing up such inﬁnite numbers
of lumps of earth called worm-casts, which being their excrement, is
a ﬁne manure for grain and grass."-- Natural History qf Sc/bornc.
350 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
again ;* having formod a complete chain or sphere
of his own, he in his turn becomes entrapped and
screwed up in the grave he has himself been
digging.
The outward case of this earth is one continued
muscle, or every species of animal linked together,
forming one complete machine. When the centre
moves, the whole mass moves also, all the parts
being conjoined and acting in perfect unison.
Every animal being enclosed in a skin or out
ward case is constantly consuming his own machine.
“ Our birth is nothing but our death began,
As tapers waste that instant they take ﬁre."-— Young.
By this state of combustion every organ is sepa
° Man in Embryo.—“We commence,“ says Dr. Bourdon, “ by being
entirely liquid, in the bosom of u little egg, which serves us as a.
cradle and ﬁrst origin; we afterwards appear under the form of a
whitish ﬁeecy spot. This little homogeneous mass, in which no
organ is visible, appears about the twentieth day. It is like a worm
in a mucous state, without any visible opening, two or three lines
long, and deprived of motion; nothing yet is apparent, nothing to
indicate a head, eyes, or members; at this period all is white, all is
ﬂuid, all appears uniform, and not organized. As soon as the organs
do appear, every thing is symnwtrical. At thirty days the embryo is
the size of an ant, and of a honey-bee at forty days. At about the
ﬁftieth day the members begin to appear, and the bones to ossify. At
this epoch the human fmtus has a kind of tail, like qundI-upeds. In
ﬁne, at ﬁrst we resemble a kind of worm: we afterwards breathe by
the gills; like the moluscn, our skin is soft and naked, like theirs;
after which we successively become ﬁshes, reptiles, birds and mam
malis. We resemble in turns all these different animals by several of
our organs—by the brain, the heart, and the vessels, and principally
by the skeleton; and it is only after having passed through all these
gradations that the human fretus at length diil‘ers from them all.”
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 351
rated, evaporated, and condensed, until the whole
machine or body is ﬁnally consumed, and falls again
to the earth as dust and ashes. Thus it would
appear to have been the original lot of man from the
fall of Adam, to cultivate his parent soil, and, by
this means, to change the elements of nature for the
security of his own life, and the beneﬁt of suc
ceeding generations!“ All the lower animals
surrounding his body are formed from diamond, and
by his labour and industry they are converted into
carbon. By this means, he has given stability and
‘ “ Linnwus called the Algae, Vemaculi', or bond slaves, regarding
ﬂirt!" as being fettered to the rocks on which they grow. The title is
particularly appropriate, and especially when applied to the lichens,
which are, as it were, chained to the soil they labour to improve for
the beneﬁt of others, though from it they derive no nourishment
themselves.
“ The ﬁrst conquests of life over death, the ﬁrst inroads of fertility
on harrenness, are made by the smaller lichens, which, as Humboldt
has well observed, labour to decompose the scoriﬁed matter ofvolcanoes
and the smooth and naked surfaces of sea deserted rocks, and thus to
extend the dominion of vitality. These little plants will often obtain
a footing where nothing else could be attached. So small are many,
that they are invisible to the naked eye, and the decay of these when
they have ﬂourished and passed through their transient epochs of
existence, is destined to form the ﬁrst exuvial layer of vegetable
mould; succeeding generations give successive increments to the soil
thus forming, from which men are to reap their harvests, and cattle to
derive their food; from which hereafter forests are designed to spring,
an-l from which future navies are to be supplied.
“ But how is this frail dust to maintain its station on the smooth
and polished rock, when vitality has ceased to exert its inﬂuence, and
the structure that ﬁxed it has decayed? This is a point which has
been too generally overlooked, and yet which is the most wonderful
provision of all: the plant, when (lying, dig:for itself agravc,ku1pture:
352 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCXPLE,
growth to the earth he inhabits and in the end will
form for himself an imperishable rock!
in the solid rock a scpulchre in which its dust may rest. For chemistry
informs us that, not only do these lichens consist in part of gummy
matter, which causes their particles to stick together, but that they
likewise form, when living, a considerable quantity of oxalic acid;
which acid, when by their decay setfrce, acts upon the rock, and thus is a
holhnvﬂtrmed, in which the dead matter of the lichen is deposited. Fur
thermore, the acid, by combining with the limestone, or other material
of the rock, will often add an important mineral ingredient to the
vegetable mould ; and not only this, the moisture thus conveyed into
the cracks and crevices of rocks and stones, when frozen, rends them,
and, by continual degradation, adds more and more to the forming
soil. Successive generations of these ‘bond-slaves‘ successively and
indefatigany perform their duties, until at length, as the result of
their accumulated toil, the barren breakers, or the pumice plains of a
volcano, become converted into fruitful fields."—Pro/L>ssur Burma‘s
Outline: of Botany.
' City Antiquities—During the recent excavations in the City,
more particularly for the formation of the sewerage in Newgate street,
and the foundation of the new school at Honey-lane Market, a great
variety of interesting relics of antiquity have been discovered by the
workmen,which, viewed collectively, throw agreat deal oflight upon
the ancient history of the metropolis. A large number of these spe
cimens have been placed in the very extensive Geological Museum of
Mr. Saull, in Aldersgate street, a gentleman of great antiquarian and
and scientiﬁc research, and which he has chronologically arranged,
forming a very interesting and connected series of illustrations. The
excavations in Newgate street, carried on to a depth of about thirty
feet below the surface, went underneath the whole of the foundations
of the ancient cities. And above the solid diluvium, left by deposition
from the river, there were observed the successive debris of the British
Roman, and later London. The lowest was repeatedly seen at a depth
of between nineteen and twenty feet below the surface, consisting of
cinders and charcoal, the probable remnants of the destruction by ﬁre
of the rude wigwams or wooden huts, forming the ﬁrst settlement of
our British ancestors, where likewise a great quantity ofhuman bones
were found. Above these were found specimens of Roman and
Samian pottery, consisting of vases, lachrymatories, amphorze, sec“
3
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 353
By the internal and external combustion of our
earth, its materials are converted into carbonic acid
many of which are in a ﬁne state of preservation, retaining in legible
characters the names of the makers; coins of the Emperors Constan
tius, Constantinus Pius, Antoninus Pius,Nero, &c., a large quantity of
vitriﬁed tiles, Sta—Near the end of Newgate street, approaching to
Snow-hill, at adepth of about twenty feet, the workmen met with
an obstruction, which, from the hardness of the materials, for
some time impeded their labours, and which, on examination, was
found to consist of large solid blocks of chalk, cemented with an in
frangible kind of grouting. On penetrating through, they entered a
large magazine of human bones, loosely impacted together. From
the direction of this wall, and the position of the bones not leading to
the idea that this was a place of sepulchre, the probable conjecture is
that it was an ancient City boundary, and the latter are the relics of
an army, who, attempting to force the portals, and perishing there,
were afterwards loosely covered over. In the exeavations at Cheap
side, at a depth of about eighteen feet, imbedded amongst many pieces
of pottery and tiles, and what is supposed to have been the ruins of a
Roman dwelling, was found a skull, now in Mr. Saull’s collection, in
a remarkably ﬁne state of preservation, but which, phrenologically
speaking, from the absence ofthe intellectual and great predominance
of the animal organs, can give no exalted ideas of the moral character
of the people to which the possessor belonged, the head being more
like that ofa Carib than of one of the natives of modern Europe. In
the excavations at Honey-lane Market, likewise, a great many human
bones have been found, in all probability, of very great antiquity
from the immense quantity of Saxon coins which were also discovered
there. Near the same spot were also discovered a great variety of
tiles and pavements of the period of the Plantagencts, many of which,
from the inscriptions on them, must have formed the foundation
of some sacred place. From the chronological arrangements founded
on these data, it would appear that the site of London must have
been raised at least twenty feet from its ﬁrst foundation, the
ground occasionally rising by the aid ofﬂoods from the river, but the
debris being most materially increased by conﬂagration to which the
city was formerly so subject, and particularly at the “ Great Fire of
London."—Newspaper Paragraph.
Spontaneous Combustion. “ The conﬂagrations here referred to are
A A
354 THE Discovsiw or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
gas, which, at a certain number of degrees below
our freezing point, is by crystallization restored to
its original purity, as the‘ diamond. In page 244,
I have shown the manner in which these materials,
by the decomposition of the surface or animal boun
dary prior to the ﬂood, planted successively the
several internal organs of the earth, ascending to
the point of levity to form a base or ovum for the
brain. Since the ﬂood the decomposition of the
external membrane has been appropriated to the
purpose of enlarging the internal machine, and
enabling it to become perfectly organized in its
several parts; each of these parts, like the primary,
forming to itself distinct organs of its own. It
is, indeed, apparent to the naked eye, that the
still common in many of the vast and impervious forests of the
Northern regions. M. Aeerhi has given a particular and spirited ac
count of those of Finland, which often originate from an unassignable
cause. ‘I saw in this forest,‘ says he, ‘ the disastrous wreck of one of
those conﬂagrations which had devoured the weed through an extent
of six or seven miles, and which exhibited a most dismal spectacle.
You not only saw trunks and large remains of trees lying in confusion
on the ground, and reduced to the state of charcoal, but also trees
standing upright, which, though they had escaped destruction, had
_ yet been miserably scorched; others black and bending down to one
side, whilst, in the midst of the ruins of trunks and branches, appeared
a group of young trees, rising to replace the former generation, and
full of vigour and vegetable life, seemed to be deriving their nourish
ment from the ashes of their parents.’ "—vaels through Swrdm,
Finland, and Lap/mid, 4m. vol. i.
“ See dying vegetables life sustain,
See life dissolving vegetate again;
All forms that perish other forms supply,
13y turns we catch the vital breath and die.“-¢-Pope.
OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 355
moon now resembles a human head; its organs
must, therefore, be seven in number: eyes, nose,
ears, &c., being formed in distinct succession by
repeated layers of ﬂuid matter thrown 011' from the
primary or brain; the whole mass constituting the
moon being enclosed by an elastic membrane or
web of life, (its animal boundary :) this membrane,
which is connected with the whole of the terres
trial machine, is the medium by which it receives
its external nourishment.
“ Star of the earth, and diamond of the night!“
Dr. Darwin.
The lunar body, as it'revolves around the earth,
puriﬁes the latter by absorbing its rejected materials;
these rejected materials consist of carbonic acid: as
the moon falls or gravitates from its original position,
the boiling point, it increases in weight, by the
addition of this matter on its surface; having
reached the opposite extreme of its orbit, the
freezing point, it ascends by its own levity. This
accumulation of matter by the moon is, of course,
regulated by the decomposition or disorganization
of the earth’s surface. Such being the case, it be
comes a question of considerable importance to
ascertain the precise state of the latter in this
present period. In order to do this, let us take a
retrospect of the changes which have been going
on in man himself since the period of the general
deluge.
356 THE mscovsnv on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
It must be generally admitted that there have
been great alterations in the human race. Man has
now lost the solidity and muscular strength by
which he was distinguished in the earliest periods
of this earth’s existence: animal life being always
correspondent with its base, we ﬁnd the ﬂuids strug
gling to predominate over the solids, and the hardy
iron race of animals few in number. Instances
of the longevity and strength of mankind have
indeed occurred at intervals, even down to these
our modern times; but such records may be con
sidered as forming anexception to the generalcharac
teristics ofthe race, and notasits moststrikingfeature.
Man has long since passed his standard of strength:
he is now on the decline; each successive genera
tion becoming more enfeebled in body and dwindled
in stature, even to the most minute form. Life is
in the blood of man, and that life is the pure iron
or oxygen: as man loses the iron contained in his
blood he becomes lighter, and, like the earth
itself, rises in the scale of creation: he not only
becomes lighter, but shorter in stature, and, gra
dually losing his colour, from being a perfect black,
he will, in the next period of his existence, become
the perfect white. Instead of being new enabled
to live, as he is stated to have done in his greatest
strength, for hundreds of years, it is estimated that
man does not, upon an average, survive his forty
ﬁfth year. It is indeed obvious that there has been
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 357
a decrease of longevity even during the last few
generationsﬁ“
The mind of man, however, perhaps compensates
for his want of bodily strength. He is daily advanc
ing towards his Creator by his inventive genius and
mechanism: he is the only animal that has acquired
the perfect ascendency over ﬁre; not contented with
gaining a sovereignty over this most powerful ele
ment, he is acquiring the means and knowledge to
prescribe bounds to it. Man is now dealing in
primitive matter: he is wielding thesamemechanical
instruments as his Maker; and this encourages my
opinion, that with the present race of human beings
willterminate the fmtal state of existence ofthis earth.
Whatever man undertakes is for his own indi
vidual good. It is through his labour that the
materials of this globe are gradually heated up to
the living ﬂame. It is through his labour that the
stagnant earth is changed into a living animal,
gradually ascending in the frozen universe. God
is the architect; He'soweth the living seed: man
cultivates, manures, and renders the soil productive:
" “ Aﬁer the ﬂood, the state of things was perfectly reversed, the
surface of the earth was covered with dead and putrifying land
animals, and ﬁshes, which copiously absorbed the oxygenous part of
the atmosphere, and supplied only mephitie and ﬁxed air. Thus the
atmosphere was probably brought to its actual state, containing little
more than one-fourth of pure air, and three-fourths of mephitic.
Hence the constitution of men must have been weakened. and the lives
of their enfeebled posterity gradually reduced to their present
standard.“—Kirwan‘s Geologiml Essays.
358 THE mscovmw or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
according to the labour so will be the product; for
“ Human life
Is but a loan, to be repaid with use.“
Man himself may be considered as placed in the
centre of every sphere: he is the medium between
the heavens above and the earth beneath. The
upper part of his sphere, or galvanic, being the
point at which the sun’s materials are deposited:
the opposite extreme, or lower point, the apex
or electric. In proportion to the acquisition of
matter at the former is man enabled to throw off
his superabundant particles, by his skin or outward
boundary; thus is an ascending creation, on the
most minute scale, formed. These ascending races
are destroyed by the falling oxygen, and the
descending race, or parasitical, produced, which
gravitates to the apex of the sphere, there to be
reunited and worked internally by electricity up to
the surface or atmosphere again, in a new and
improved form. Ofall the changes which take place
on the surface of this earth, man himsey is the pri
marycause; he is the dailylabourer, and is constantly
decompOsing andreproducinganimalmachinery. All
the visible objects around him are the works of his
own hands. It is he himself that is labouring by
the sweat of his brow to rear up this grand piece
of human architecture, to be consolidated upon the
dissolved materials of his own fabric or machine.
It is he himself, I repeat, that is labouring with
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 359
all his muscular strength to achieve the grand
catastrophe. Let him look to it, and see that he does
not oppress another by his desire of self-interest:*
' “ In the recently published letters of the late Mr. Sadleracurious
calculation is made, which runs strangely counter to the generally
received impression, that human life is now of longer duration than
formerly. He mentions that in the manufacturing districts the mean
duration ofhuman life, calculated upon the mortuary registers of1830,.
183l, and 1832, and making no deductions for the ravages of the
small-pox in former times, is less than it was in the corresponding
years half a century ago. This he illustrates by tables of the deaths
in the town of Leeds in the years just mentioned, and in the years
1780, 1781, and 1782, which appear to support his assertion. The
cause is ascribed to “ the deleterious nature of the present system of
employment and labour, and the consequent habits and conditions of
the people."
The following review of a work, entitled “ Eﬁ'ects of Arts, Trades,
and Professions, on Health and Longevity,“ written by Mr. Thackrah,
illustrates the point in question.
“ Civilization, of which we boast so much, has been deﬁned to be
the misery of the many for the luxury of the few; and truly, while
turning over the leaves of this book, one cannot avoid bitterly
deploring the undeniable fact that so many of our fellow-creatures are
condemned to lives, not merely of almost unceasing drudgery, but to
disease, repeated sickness, and early death, in the production of the
various articles of ornament and fancy that custom or fashion has
rendered indispensable:
‘ Here, while the courtier glitters in brocade,
There the pale artist plies the sickly trade.‘
“ A work like the present cannot fail to be of great service to the
cause of humanity, for in many instances the author points out simple
precautions by the adoption of which persons engaged in unhealthy
avocations may, in a great degree, avoid the effects of noxious exha
lations, bad air, conﬁnement, &c.,“ and it is to be hoped that the atten
tion of scientiﬁc men may be more closely directed to the subject.
Moreover, the book may warn parents against devoting their children
to avocatious of an unhealthy nature, and thus, by lessening the num
bers of those engaged in destructive trades, increase the wages of the
360 THE mscovsar 0F Tun vnuu. PRINCIPLE,
no one can labour for himself alone. The sum-total
of man’s labour, when united, will amount to the
production of one perfect individual.
men that are already employed in them, for it is a singular fact that
the most unhealthy “ callings" are not the best remunerated. The
reader will be surprised to ﬁnd that many trades reputed to be un
healthy, are decidedly the reverse; while in other cases imagination
could hardly have exaggerated the debilitating—the ruinous ell'erts
on the constitution, of avocations already known to be of a sickly
character. Take as an instance the following nﬂlicting details of the
dread/ill eﬂci ts of the white lend manufacture.
“ ‘ The manufacturers of white lead are subjected to its poison,both
by the lungs and the skin. The dust and exhalation are most from
the white beds and the packing; little from smelting. There is only
stench from the grinding, and neither dust nor smell from the blue
beds. Such, at least, was the statement of the managers of an esta
blishment at Hull; for we were not permitted personally to inspect
the process, though we examined the men. In several departments
the heat is such as to produce sweating. Drinking, however, is less
than in many other hot employments; and white-lead preparers are
not, as a body, intemperate. In all departments the men and women
are sallow and thin, and complain frequently of headach and loss of
appetite. The eﬁ'ects of the lead are most marked in the white-beds
and packing departments. Here, men soon complain of headach,
drowsiness, sickness, vomiting, griping, obstinate constipation; and
to these succeed colic or inﬂammation of the bowels, disorders of the
urinary organs, and, ﬁnally, the most marked of the diseases from
lead—palsy. We observed the muscles of the fore—arm more frequently
and sooner to sull'cr than other parts. The eyes are also affected with
chronic inﬂammation, or reduced nervous power. Persons commence
the manufacture about the age of twenty; many soon leave from
broken health; those who endure the employ, do not remain, on the
average, longer than the age of forty-ﬁve; and during one-third of
these twenty-ﬁve years, the men are laid up in bed, or decrepit from
colic or palsy. The oldest man known in a large establishment at
Hull, we found to have attained the age of ﬁfty-four; but he is now
unable to work. It is sixteen years since he entered the employ, and
during this period he has been laid up twenty-eight times from serious
OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 361
It has been observed, that within the last ﬁfty
years our climate has undergone a serious change
for the worse; from a steady and regular to an
uncertain and irregular course; so much so that
one season trespasses on nearly the whole of the
succeeding season.‘ Snow and hail, with violent
disease! Each attack has been worse than its predecessor. He has
been, on one occasion, nineteen weeks in bed, with scarcely the power
of stirring a limb, and was a month without any evacuation from the
bowels. This miserable man is now partially paralytic ; he has
Searcer any motion in either wrist, and his lower extremities are so
weakened that he can scarcely trail himself along, even with the aid of
a crutch. His haggard countenance and emaciated frame give the
appearance of the age of eighty, rather than of ﬁfty-four. No person
can be a month in the worst department without a serious attack of
disease. Drunkards suﬂ'er most. One of them was said to have been
suddenly seized with violent insanity while packing lead, and to have
died soon after. Persons do not work in the lead manufactory more
than ﬁve days a week on the average; and as no man could be in
duced to remain in the destructive department, there is a regular
change of duties. Thus, though none are destroyed, all are exposed
in turn to the most baneful process.’ "
‘ Change of C1imutc.—“ M. Arago, of the French Institute, has
recently published Some observations respecting the change of climate
in France and elsewhere, from which it appears to be established that
in several parts of that country the summers are colder now than they
were formerly. He proves his position by showing that in various
districts where the grapes in former times became perfectly ripe, they
do not now ripen suﬂiciently to be used for wine of any description.
M. Arago instances Macon among other departments. In 1553 it
appears that wine was made of the Muscat grape at a village near the
town of Macon itself, and that it is now impossible to make wine of
the Muscat grape, as it does not ripen sufﬁciently. The vineyards of
Etampes and Beauvais were at one time celebrated; but, according to
a report made in 1830, no wine can now be made in the whole de
partment of La Somme, in which those places are situated. M. Anth
also instances the same change of climate in England, as he says it is
362 THE mscovsmr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
storms, for instance, have produced more frequent
convulsions on the earth’s surface. Famines,
pestilences, and earthquakes)“ have occurred in
proved by old chronicles, that at one time vines were cultivated in the
open ﬁelds throughout a large extent of the country, and that now
it requires great care to bring grapes to proper maturity in the open
air. After stating these general facts, M. Arago enters into an inquiry
into the causes of this change of climate, taking it for granted, as ad
mitted, that a very marked change of climate has taken place both in
France and England. ‘The cause,’ says M. Arago, ‘is certainly
not connected with the sun, a proof of which is given in the. steadiness
of the temperature at Palestine.‘ ‘ Some persons,‘ he adds, ‘ believe
it to be caused by an unusual extension of the ice of the Arctic Pole
by a general movement, which, after having drawn with it these
masses of ice several degrees towards the south, has carried them to
wards the coast of Greenland, where they have united. This hypo
thesis, he says, is supported by the fact that, when the eastern coast of
Greenland was ﬁrst discovered, towards the end of the 10th century,
it was entirely free from ice; but that still he does not believe the
hypothesis is well founded, as there was very hot weather after the
formation of those masses of ice upon the coast ofGreenland.‘ “
' “ An earth quake occurred at Canton, in China, on the 16th of
September, 1831. It is noticed as an uncommon phenomenon in that
part of the globe. The shocks continued about six or seven seconds,
producing in that time about the same number of regular oscillations,
or horizontal movements, in a direction from north to south, and
vice versﬁ. No damage was done by them."
The Zara Gazette of the 24th ult. has the following:--“ By
accounts from the interior of the country, We learn, that, on the
night of the lst, an earthquake was felt in the direction of from
north-east to south-west. The shocks, which were at ﬁrst slight,
became so violent that persons who were standing upright were
thrown to the ground, and were unable to recover their equilibrium
while the phenomenon endured. The isles of Lezina, Curzola, and
Lissa, experienced violent shocks, but no place suﬂ'ered so much as the
village of Slivno. Situated on the sea-shore, to the south-east of fort
Opus, some houses were totally destroyed, and from the greater part
of the buildings the tiles were shaken. A circumstance worthy of
remark is, that this phenomenon was not indicated by any of the
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 363
divers places, not excepting even this our own
favoured isle, in unaccountable number. These
usual forerunners. The dogs did not bark, nor did the horses neigh;
but the greater part of the inhabitants were some hours before awoke
out of their sleep. This earthquake was followed by a hurricane,
which lasted some hqurs."-—Galignani’s llfmenger, January, 1833.
Earthquake at Mansﬁeld.-—“ At ﬁve minutes past three o'clock
in the afternoon of Saturday last, a smart shock of an earthquake was
felt here; the streets were immediately thronged with persons, who
had run out of their houses, imagining they were coming down. The
shock appears to have been most violent in West-gate, and in the
Lawn, (in the latter place two or three women were so alarmed as to
faint away,) and seems to have been conﬁned to a few miles round
Mansﬁeld. We are informed it did not extend beyond the village of
Kirby, where it was severe. At Sutton-in-Ashﬁeld, Skegby, and
Pleasley, itwas also felt very smartly. At Mansﬁeld Woodhouse it was
less severe than at Mansﬁeld, and at Warsop it was felt still less. We
believe it did not extend to Farnsﬁeld. At Bilsthorpe the shock was
not perceived; but a noise like unto the rushing of a mighty wind
among trees on the mountain-top was heard. The shock was per
ceived at Harlow \Vood, about two miles and a half from Mansﬁeld,
on the Nottingham road, but was not felt at the Hut. It may, per
lmps, be worth remarking that Kirkby, where the shock appears to
have been ﬁrst observed, is in the neighbourhood of collieries, and the
shock was principally conﬁned to the coal and lime-stone districts.
The day was a ﬁne one, with a brisk S.E. wind, and light clouds
ﬂying about; but there was not anything in the atmosphere indicative
of a storm, or of this awful visitation. Happily, we believe, no mate
rial damage was sustained."—Nottingham Journal, July 10, 1833.
Earthquake.—“ We understand the shock of an earthquake, which
we noticed in our last as having been experienced on the morning of
the 30th nlt. at Carmarthen and other places, was also felt in this city.
By members of a family residing in Park-place, and who had not risen,
it was distinctly felt, the clock time of the house being half-th eight.
By one of the family of Mr. Cole, governor of the county gaol, who,
being an invalid, was still in bed, it was distinctly fell, as well as by
other persons in diil'erent parts of the city; but by those who had
risen, the shock or vibration seems not to have been noticed. Out of
doors no pcculiarity was observed ; at nine that morning the barometer
364 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
events are only presented to the public at intervals
through the medium of the press: when collected
of the Devon and Exeter Institution measured 29.90; the thermometer
40; the wind at as, and the weather foggy.“-—Ereter Gazette, 1833.
“ At about twenty minutes before three o‘clock on Thursday morn
ing last, a sudden and rather violent trembling of the earth was felt
at this place (Portsmouth), which produced feelings of awe in many
persons. Its effects were more visible at Chichester, Emsworth,
Havant, and Purbrook, where in many of the houses the convulsive
motion shook the furniture, and appeared to threaten destruction to
the premises, the inmates becoming so greatly alarmed as to run to
and from each other‘s bed-rooms for aid and shelter. A shock of
similar violence and duration was felt at this place about twenty years
since, in the afternoon of a ﬁne day.“—Hamps/|ire Tclegraph,Jan, 1834.
Earthquake in Ccphalonia.—-Extract of a letter from Corfu, dated
July 26, 1834: “ We have had the weather extremely hot; the ther
mometer in the shade at 86, with hardly any wind to cool the air.
On the 5th of June we were lying in Cephalonia, when we felt a very
severe shock of an earthquake about four in the afternoon. It was a
very ﬁne day, and I happened to be on shore at Lixuri, the opposite
side of the harbour to where the ship was lying. Suddenly I heard a
loud rumbling noise, and felt the ground trembling under my feet;
it felt as ifit was going to sink in. There was immediately an im
mense rush into the street, and in less than a minute I saw at least
3,000 people on their knees praying, crossing themselves, and a great
many prostrate on the ground kissing the earth. It was with diﬂi~
culty that I kept on my legs. A great many houses were cracked
from top to bottom, and some fell down altogether. The only acci
dent, however, which I heard of was of two girls, about twelve years
of age, having their legs broken by the falling in of a wall. Earth
quakes are of frequent occurrence in Cephalonia, but it is many years
since they have had one so severe in its effects. The damage done is
very heavy. Many large and good houses are threatening to tumble
down every day. There was not the least appearance in the sky to
indicate what was going on, nor was there any rise or fall of the sea."
Earthquake in Jamaica.—By a letter from Jamaica, dated the 7th
of September, 1834, it appears that “the town of Kingston had been
visited byasevere shock ofnn earthquake. The weatherforseveral days
hml been very hot, the thermometer as high as 96 and 9B in the shade,
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 365
into a mass they assume a more startling aspect.
Under this impression some of the appalling pheno
with tremendous thunder and lightning, and very heavy rain. About
half-past one in the morning of the 7th, the earth was violently con
vulsed by about eight or ten distinct undulations, the force of which
appeared gradually to diminish until the last, when the phenomenon
was concluded by a shock more severe even than any of those which
preceded it. The duration of the earthquake exceedvd that of any
former one, being fully 30 seconds. We are happy to state, however,
that no serious mischiefhas been done by it at Kingston."
Earthquake in Hungary—The Austrian journals give the fol
lowing account of the natural phenomenon which occurred near Lake
l'lattep:—“Szoloa Gyork, Feb. 10, 1836.~Yesterdaymorningwe had
a heavy fall of snow, so much so, that by mid-day the snow was one
foot and a half deep. Meanwhile the roaring of the waters of Lake
Platten were frightful, and the waves rose to a great height. Towards
mid-day the lake became calm, and a strong south-wind then suddenly
setting in, quickly annihilated the great masses of snow under which
many cattle had been buried, but were now partly rescued. This was
followed, about three o‘clock in the afternoon, by a terriﬁc thunder
storm, accompanied by a violent tempest, intermingled with drizzling
snow, during which a man who was going to a neighbouring forest,
and two others, who were sitting at their own ﬁresides, were
struck by the lightning. Towards live o‘clock all seemed to be over,
not the slightest atmospheric movement was observable, when, on a
sudden, a great subterraneous noise, which was immediately succeeded
by a violent earthquake, terriﬁed all the inhabitants, who ﬂed from
their dwellings. Several houses were rent, and others thrown
down. The lake Platten, twenty square miles (German) in extent,
was, and is still, covered with a dark mist; in many places the water
appears to bubble, as if it were boiling, and, what is very remarkable,
several dead fish were last night cast ashore. But what is worse than
all tllhl has yet been related, is the fact, that the inhabitants of the
valleys, Latizang and Triz, with their ﬂocks, are compelled to leave
their homes, because those places, since the earthquake of yester
day, have become completely overspread with a thick fmtid vapour,
and in the plain, ﬂames are seen to arise from the earth. We are
in the greatest consternation here; the lake is again much agitated
366 THE mscovsmr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
mena alluded to, have been selected from the public
journals, and submitted to the notice of the reader.
to-day (nine o‘clock in the morning), and the waves swell to an
immense height."
The Guzctteqf the two Sicilirs, of the 28th ult., gives some long
details of the earthquake that laid waste the district of Roseano, in
Calabria Citerior, on the night of the 24th April :-—“ The two com
munes of Rossano and (‘rosia suffered the most; scarcely a single
house remains standing; 192 individuals lost their lives by the dis
aster, and 240 were more or less badly wounded. The inhabitants
of whole communes, having at their head a magistrate and a surgeon,
were seen coming to the aid of the sufferers, and some terrible scenes
took place as the bodies of the dead were dug out from the ruins.
Public bencﬁcence was strongly excited by the event. According to
some accounts, but which may have perhaps been exaggerated, a meteor
was seen along the shore of Calopezzati, like large burning beams of
wood; long and deep crevices tore the land in the country; the sea
retired 40 paces from the shore in one place, and overﬂowed another
part to the same extent: on the shore volcanic substances were aﬁer
wards found, and ﬁsh, of species entirely unknown to the ﬁshermen of
the country. The same shock was felt at Ginosa, in the province of
Otranto, and at Craco, in the province of Bassilicata, where some
ediﬁces were overthrown."-qlune, 1836.
“ The Neapolitan Gazette of the 7th November, 1836, has an account
of the destruction of Castiglioni by an earthquake, and of the burial
of nearly one hundred inhabitants under the ruins, in the middle of
the night of the 12th of October. The shock, it appears, was gone
rally felt in Calabria and Citra. Castiglioui, a commune in the district
of (losenzs, was levelled to the ground, and 100 inhabitants (the
population is estimated 1,200,) met an untimely death. Many of them,
in attempting (light, were seriously wounded by the falling of the
houses. The small village ofRavella, with a population of370 persons,
met a similar fate, though with only the loss of two lives and about
thirty wounded. In Leppano, a family of nine individuals were buried
in the ruins of a fallen house. In Rende two were killed from the
same cause, and one in Casole. The buildings in Cosenza and the
capital of the province were very considerably damaged, but fortu
nately no lives were lost. Calamitous as this event may appear,
it is little to be compared with a disaster of the same kind which
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 367
There has been also a vast increase of coal, iron,
and metals;* the earth indeed appears to be gradu—
befell the other Calabrin in the year 1783, when a great part ofwhich,
as well as Sicily, was destroyed, and about 40,000 of the inhabitants,
in the surrounding towns and villages, perished."
“The Mediterranean mail, which reached London this morning,
February 28,1837, furnishes advices from Alexandria to the8th ofJanu
ary, Malta to the 7th, Malaga to the 15th, Gibraltar to the 17th, and
from Cadiz to the 18th instant. Saﬂ'et, one of the four principal
cities ofthe Holy Land, containing a large population, was visited by
a severe earthquake on the let of January, at six o‘clock, pm, which
destroyed the principal part of the town, burying two-thirds of the
inhabitants under its ruins. Several of the adjoining villages have
totally disappeared, and the loss of life is said to have been many
thousands. At the moment this convulsion of nature occurred in
Egypt, the violent storms and hurricanes, it will be remembered, took
place in the Mediterranean, especially at Gibraltar, where the shipping
sustained much damage. The advices from Tripoli state that the
plague was on the increase there, and the mortality very great."
“Letters from Constantinople, of the 25th ultimo, mention the
occurrence of most dreadful earthquakes in Southern Syria. Safad,
Tiberias, Naplooz, St. Jean d'Acre, and almost every town and village
in that country, had more or less suffered from the shocks, and
15,000 persons atleast had lost their lives on the occasion. A severe
shock had likewise been felt, at Constantinople, on the 294]. The
plague was on the decline in that city, the number of deaths being
then little more than twenty per day. The amount of the mortality
occasioned by the epidemic during the last six months was supposed
to have been at least 120,0 00 individuals.“
“ This year has been remarkable for earthquakes; and at the foot
of St. Plomb, at Brigne, in the Alps, there seems to be a permanent
earthquake, for the movements began on the 22d of February, and
have continued ever since, but have considerably diminished in inten
sity. The earthquakedat Lisbon extended as far as Brigne, and caused
great destruction there, which adds to the present alarm.“
Morning Chronicle, Friday, September I, 1837.
' “ Strabo aﬂirms that the earliest mines of Andalusia were pro~
duced from ores reduced to ﬂuidity, in consequence of some country
men having aecidently set ﬁre to the superincumbcnt woods, whereby
5
368 THE msoovsnv OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
ally resolving itself into its primitive elements,
coal or carbon, iron and water,‘ and to be increasing
the substance of the earth itself became heated, and the ﬂuent metals
ran into uniform masses; which were shortly afterwards discovered,
when the same tract of country was shattered into distinct fragments
by an earthquake. Aristotle asserts the same respecting the ﬁrst
traces of the silver mines of Spain.“--1tf. Good: Note: on Lucretius.
" “Iron will preserve its solid form till it be heated to 130° of
Wedgewood‘s scale. It will then become ﬂuid, and by increasing the
heat still further, it will disperse as gas." Lydiard.—“ It has been
calculated by an engineer of eminence, that every four-horse coach
deposits twelve pounds of iron in every 100 miles of its journey: and
that consequently, assuming the number of such coaches passing daily
between London and Birmingham alone to be twenty, the weight Qf
inm deposited during every transit, exceeds 250 lbs. These results,
it is stated, are not conjectural, but derived from investigations
applied to the horse-shoe and the tire of the wheel: in the ﬁrst instance
previously to use; and in the second, after the wear and tear of the
road had rendered them useless. And they have been found, it is
added, as to every ten weight of iron so tried, nearly uniform.“—
Moming Chronicle, October 7th, l835.—-I would ask the simple ques
tions,what has become of the iron deposited? And does it now exist
in the solid, ﬂuid, or elastic form?
“ If metallic matter were not poured in from above, nor ejected
from below, in what manner did it come into the vein 2" ‘ ' “ Some
of the metals and other substances found in veins, are capable of
solution in hydrogen gas, and perhaps all of them may be so by natural
processes; in this state they may have penetrated the vein and depo
sited their contents."—Bakewcll's Geology.
A correspondent who resides near the Maesteg Iron Works, Mar
gam, says—“ The quantity of iron (pig) that has been exported from
this place during the last year to the coast of France alone exceeds
7,000 tons; and large orders of castings, gas-pipes, &c., have been
executed for different parts of England and Ireland. Orders are
received daily, and trade seems to revive to its former state. The
company have also found a very superior vein ofbituminous coal, for
which a very ready sale in the London and other markets has been
obtained, and they intend shipping 150 tons daily."—Cambrian, 1833,
OR, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. ' 369
both internally and externally its powerful stream
of combustion.
Heaps of coals lying in large masses at the mouth
of every coal-pit near Bishop Auckland, I have my
self scen in a constant state of inﬂammation, the
light from their combustion only becoming visible
at night. i
“ Sure there is need of social intercourse,
Benevolence, and peace, and mutual aid,
Between the nations, in a world that seems
To toll the death-bell ofits own decease,
And, by the voice of all its elements,
To preach the general doom. \Vhen were the winds
Let slip with such a warrant to destroy?
When did the waves so haughtily o'erleap
Their ancient barriers, deluging the dry T
Fires from beneath,“ and meteors from above,'l'
Portentous, unexampled, unexplained,
“ In a work lately published by a Spaniard, there is a comparison
between the produce of the gold and silver mines in America and the -
coal-mines in England, from which it appears that the gross value of
the annual produce of the coal mines is 18,000,000 tons, amounting
to 450,000,000ﬂ, including the wages and other charges; whilst the
produce of the gold and silver mines, including the same charges, is
only 2,500,0001'. ; showing a balance in favour of the coal mines, and
over the gold and silver mines of the New Works, of no less a sum
than 2‘29,500,000£”-—French Paper.
' “ From the Report Book, kept by the London Fire Establish
ment, it appears that the number of ﬁres which have occurred in
London within the last twelve months. is air hundred andforty-two."—
Avespaper Paragraph. '
+ “ The Boston Herald, July 25, 1834, states that a very brilliant
meteor in the heavens was observed at Stamford on Saturday night,
between eleven and twelve o‘clock, diffusing a light as powerful as
BB
370 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Have kindled beacons in the skies; and th‘ old
And crazy earth has had her shaking ﬁts
More frequent, and foregone her usual rest.“
Cowper‘s Task.
To what causes must we attribute all these multi
the full moon with a clear sky. Its duration was about three seconds;
and what is remarkable, it was raining fast at the time, though there
was a break in the clouds at some distance 06."
The Nottingham Review describes “a beautiful meteor seen at
Kedleston, in the north-eastern hemisphere. It bore the appearance
of apillar of ﬁre, of a very clear red colour, about twenty feet in
length by three in diameter; it remained stationary for about three
quarters of an hour, and then totally disappeared.“
“A letter from Brun, in Moravia, gives an extraordinary account
of a meteor, said to have been visible in that town. Just after night,
fall, a very vivid streak of light was suddenly visible, the effect of
which was to lead to the belief that many houses in the immediate
vicinity were in ﬂames. A continued noise was heard, and the
heavens appeared to be completely on ﬁre.“
On another occasion “ the town of Brussels was alarmed by the ap
pearance of a brilliant red light in the north, which looked like the re
ﬁection of a very large ﬁre at a distance; it, however, soon assumed the
form of a dense illuminated cloud of vapour, of an intense vermilion
colour, which separating into two distinct portions over the town of
Brussels, one part went oil“ in a direction to the W.N.W. and the other
to the N.; the former, suddenly dividing itself again into long horizontal
lines of electrial ﬁre, at length disappeared. Accurate minutes of this
phenomenon were taken by M. Quetelet, of Brussels, and by Dr.
Forster, of Cambridge. who happened to be passing through Belgium
at the time, and who determined the altitude of the phenomenon to
be very considerable, and that it was not an ordinary Aurora Boreal is."
The Edinburgh Observer mentioned that the heavy gales were
preceded in October last by a series of the most brilliant Aurora:
Boreales. " They were visible. night after night, in all the shapes of
arches, pencilled rays, and dense masses, illuminating the northern
hemisphere,"
One of our journals, about the same period, described a singularly
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 337-1
plied phenomena, but to the work of man in turning
to his own private account the properties of the sub
stantial portion of our globe, to meet his cupidity?
The constant use of steam, gas, and iron machinery,
with the hot blast, are among the primary causes of
the approaching catastrophe: and this monopolize
tion of public property, in order to convert it into
private luxuries, (which nature has herself inter
dicted,) increases the danger tenfold: witness
the hundreds of accidents, too horrifying to relate,
which have been the consequence of the application
of steam power, and of the use of gas-lights.
Water, that element designed for the beneﬁt of
man, has been perverted by him to his own private
views, by him separated into its component parts,
and thus enabled to add its powerful assistance to
the general stream of combustion.* By the use of
interesting ﬁery meteor, which passed over the metropolis, “ and must
have been seen by hundreds of thousands in every direction, between
the hours of eight and nine o‘clock in the evening, it giving to the
heavens the appearance of a near and ﬁercely spreading conﬁagration.
This had the effect for nearly an hour of keeping almost all the ﬁre
men and engines of the metropolis in motion. Very nearly similar
phenomena, and producing the same useless activity among the ﬁre
men and their horses, occurred on the night ofthe l1tl| of November
last year, when twalve engines and seventy-four men were kept in
activity from eleven o'clock RM. till six the next morning, the causes
of alarm successively reappearing. At the corners of the streets, both
then and on the present occasion, groups were seen collected, conjec
turing the locality of the conﬂagration, which all agreed was raging."
' The following extract from Mr. Monck Mason‘s highly interesting
narrative of the aeronautical expedition from London to Wielburg
will illustrate the subject we are now contemplating :
6
372 THE mscovsnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
gas-lights and iron railways in all parts of the globe,
“The night having now completely closed in, and no prospect of
any assistance from the moon to facilitate our researches, it was only
by means of the lights, which either sineg or in masses appeared spreading
in every dirertion, that we could hope to take any account of the natu re
of the country we were traversing, or form any opinion of the towns
or villages which were continually becoming subjected to our view.
“ The scene itself was one which eveeeds description. The whole
plane of the earth's surface, for many and many a league around, as
far and farther than the eye distinctly could embrace, seemed abso
lutely teeming with the scattered ﬁres of a watchful population, and
exhibited a strong spectacle below, that almost rivalled in brilliancy
the remoter lustre of the concave ﬁrmament above. incessantly
during the earlier portion of the night, ere the vigilant inhabitants
had ﬁnally retired to rest, large sources of light, betokening the pre
sence of some more extensive community, would appear just looming
above the distant horizon in the direction in which we were advancing,
hearing at ﬁrst no faint resemblance to the eﬂ'ect produced by some
vast conﬁagration, when seen from such a distance as to preclude the
minute investigation of its details. By degrees, as we drew nigh,
this confused mass of illumination would appear to increase in inten
sity, extending itself over a larger portion of the earth, and assuming
a distincter form, and a more imposing appearance, until at length,
having attained a position from whence we could more immediately
direct our view, it would gradually resolve itself into its parts, and
shooting out into streets, or spreading into squares, present us with
the most perfect model of a town, diminished only in size according
to the elevation from which we happened at the time to observe it.
“ It would be very difﬁcult, if not impossible, to convey to the minds
of the uninitiated any adequate idea of the stupendous effect which
such an exhibition, under all its concomitant peculiarities, was cal
culated to create. That we were, by such a mode of conveyance,
amid the vast solitude of the skies, in the dead of night, unknown and
unnoticed, secretly and silently reviewing kingdoms, exploring terri
tories, and surveying cities, in such rapid succession as scarcely to
afford time for criticism or conjecture, was in itself a consideration
luﬂicient to give sublimity to far less interesting scenes than ﬁrm:
which formed the subject of our present contemplations. If to this
be added the uncertainty that from henceforward began to pervade
the whole of our course, an uncertainty that every moment increased
0R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 373
man is literally organizing the exterior, or surface
as we proceeded deeper into the shades of night, and became further
removed from those land-marks to which we might have referred in
aid of our conjectures, clothing everything with the dark mantle of
mystery, and leaving us in doubt more perplexing even than ignorance
as to where we were, whither we were proceeding, and what were the
objects which so much attracted our attenti0n~some faint idea may
be formed of the peculiarity of our situation, and of the impressions
to which it naturally gave rise.
“ In this manner, and under the inﬂuence of these sentiments, did
we traverse, with rapid strides, a large and interesting portion of the
European continent; embracing within our horizon an immense suc_
cession of towns and villages, whereof those which occurred during
the earlier part of the night, the presence of their artiﬁcial illumina
tion alone enabled us to distinguish.
“ Among these latter, one in particular, both from its own superior
attractions, the length of time it continued within our view, and the
uninterrupted prospect which our position directly above it enabled
us to command, captivated our attention and elicited constant expres
sions of mingled admiration and surprise. Situated in the centre of
a district which actually appeared to blaze with the innumerable ﬁres
wherewith it was studded in every direction to the full extent of all
our visible horizon, it seemed to offer in itself, and at one glance, an
epitome of all those charms which we had been previously observing
in detail. The perfect correctness with which every line of street was
marked out by its particular line of ﬁres; the forms and positions of
the more important features of the city, the theatres and squares, the
markets and public buildings, indicated by the presence of the larger
and more irregular accumulation of lights, added to the faint murmur
of a busy population still actively engaged in the pursuits of pleasure,
or the avocations of gain, all together combined to form a picture,
which, for singularity and eti'ect, certainly could never have been be
fore conceived. This was the city of Liege, remarkable from the
extensive iron works which, abounding in its neighbourhood, occa.
sioned the peculiar appearance already described, and at the time led
to that conjecture, concerning its identity, the truth of which a sub
sequent enquiry enabled us to conﬁrm.
“ This was the last spectacle of the kind which we were destined to
enjoy. Scarcely had we completely cleared the town and the ﬁery
region in which it was embosomed, ere an unbroken obscurity, more
374 THE mscovnnr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
of the earth, with that substance intended to give
solidity and strength to the internal fabric,‘k and
thereby causing a double pressure on our atmos
phere, with an increased attraction of the moon
towards the earth, which must eventually be dravm
from its present position, and a partial or general
changeprematurely take place throughout the whole
universerf
This subject is of no minor importance: it in
volves the fate of not only the habitable world, but
the universe of which that world forms a part. I
would here, therefore, oﬂer a caution, and endeavour
to awaken the mind of man to a most material point
of observation, one to which he has not yet (as
appears to me) given his attention: the destruction
of this globe, our earth.
profound than any we had yet experienced, involved us in its folds,
and effectually excluded every terrestrial object from our view."
" While, on the other hand, by mining and forming tunnels and
shafts, man is aerating the internal portion: the gas-pipes and
railroads may be considered as literally performing the oﬂice of
arteries and veins on the surface of our planet. The. former branch
out in all directions, from acentral point, (the gasometer,) whence
they are supplied, and carry the material to an appointed distance,
where ignition takes place. \Vhen a deﬁciency of matter arises at
the primary or centre, darkness succeeds at this outward point of
combustion: such was really the case upon the explosion which
occurred, a short time since, at the South Metropolitan Gas \Vorks,
and in a more recent instance at Westminster.
4' Ifﬂuid iron be disturbed in cooling, it will not have all the
properties of iron,- it will become solid, but will want all the natural
texture of iron, its colour, and some ofits strength. lfwater be stirred
with a stick while freezing, it will not be ice, though it will become
solid.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 375
Let me seriously propose the following ques
tions. If the earth is a living animal, as was be
lievedby the ancients, and has been advanced by my
self, may it not he brought to a premature death, or
may not this earth become deranged and deformed,
by drawing its internal moisture to the surface, and
all its inhabitants suﬁ‘er from the change? For ifan
inﬂammation be set going upon the surface of this
earth, it must, from time to time, penetrate to the
interior, causing convulsions of the most dreadful
kind to take place, and destroying life by wholesale
numbers?“
It does indeed appear to me, as a looker on, that
man, by his continued excavation in mining and
drawing the different metals from the bowels of the
earth, is literally digging his own grave and that
of his fellow-countrymen and inhabitants of this
planet. This idea may be ridiculed, but it is not a
wild theory: it is the conviction of a mind that
' A letter from Santiago di Chili, May 16, 1833, says—“ A violent
earthquake took place on the 25th of April, about half-past ten in the
morning, at Hunsco (0r Juasco), a maritime town of the province of
(‘oquimho, and a place of some importance, in 601.sequcnce of the
mines in the neighbourhood. According to the reports received here,
a large number of the houses had been thrown down, and the others
left in a dangerous state. The church was considerably damaged;
some later letters, indeed, state that a second shock had completely
destroy ed it. The reports which we have received up to this moment
do notmake mention of any loss oflife, but it is difﬁcult to suppose that
in such a catastrophe none should have perished. It is supposed that
this terrible phenomenon had been attended with not less serious Con
376 THE mscovnmr on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
has devoted itself during the last thirty years to
physiological observations on matter, motion, and
sequences at Copiapo, another town ofthe same province, situated about
two degrees northward of Huasco, and which is also the centre of
great mining operations; but we have no certain intelligence upon the
subject, the courier who brings the news of the disaster at Huasco
having been despatched two hours after its occurrence.“
“ The rapid destruction of the diffs between Kemp Town and Rot
tingdean cannot but strike every one. The road to the latter place has
been three times _encroached upon and destroyed within the last
twenty or thirty years; and although the present line is so far removed
as to he apparently beyond the reach of injury, at least for many years,
yet since the last road was made a very great loss of the cliti's has
taken place, and their destruction is in active progress. This devas
tation is not occasioned, however, by the inroads of the sea, except in
a triﬂing degree. The following is the real cause :--The ancient bed
of shingle which rests upon the chalk, and which supports the mass of
loose materials of which the upper part of the cliﬂ‘ is composed, con
sists of loose pebbles and large boulders, imbedded in a very ﬁne sand.
This bed is exposed near the base of the cliffs, and is consequently
very accessible; and, as large ﬂints are more readily obtained fr0m it
than from the modern beach, the men employed to collect- these mate
rials are daily picking it out and undermining the cliﬂ's, which, from
the want of support, fall down in enormous masses, and are washed
away by the sea. It is a matter of surprise and regret that the lords
of the manor allow this destruction to take place; for, admitting that
the surface soil, which has been, and is still being, destroyed, be of no
great value (although it must, within the last twenty years, have
amounted to several hundred acres), yet ultimately the cliﬁ's must
approach the present road and the ground on which the gas-works
and other buildings are situated. This destruction, we repeat, is not
occasioned by the inroads of the sea; it is solely produced by the
removal of the ancient shingle bed: and thus, for a few ~cartloads of
ﬂints, which could easily be obtained elsewhere, the slide to the extent
of many hundred yards have been destroyed, and much valuable pro
perty endangered. it appears probable that the encroachments of
the sea along the shores at the Marine-parade, which have occasioned
the necessity of the enormously expensive works that are now being
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 377 '
man. “ Behold, theformer things are come to pass,
and new things do Ideclare; before they spring
forth I tell you of them." Isaiah, xlii., 9.
The gradual approach of this important change
will be very visible to all. Truly has the poet said,
“ The morrow
That o'erlooks thy twilight, Earth,
Is one of shade and sorrow!"
The earth’s atmosphere is becoming progressively
condensed and changed, impeding the descent of the
ﬂuid essential to life. Lightning, thunder, heavy rain,
and tempestsf are increasing from year to year
carried on for its protection, have been greatly accelerated by a similar
reckless removal of the foundation of the cliff. Within the last fort—
night several cartloads of shingle have been taken away from the
ancient bed beyond Kemp Town; and this has occasioned the fall of
many hundred tons of the clitfs!"—Hrightnn Gazette, 1834.
“ We understand that the money paid to the poor of this parish last
winter for digging ﬂints was l,9781.; and that the ﬂints sold for
24til.“—-Ibid. Eloy, 1834.
' Thunder Storm.——“ We, and probably all Britain, have just been
visited by a thunder storm of the old description. Tuesday morning
exhibited an eastern harr of a very dense character. The double
ﬂashes 0f vivid lurid lightning struggled through every crevice; no
window-shutter or curtains were proof against its penetrating glare.
One ﬂash, in particular, was immediately followed by a pea] so loud
and astounding that most people sprung instinctively to their feet,
and some rushed into each other's arms. Every house shook to the
foundation. It was, indeed, foartirlly and awfully sublime. A strong
wind has now succeeded-to this seemingly general storm, and a copi
ous full of rain is refreshing the green and rejoicing ﬁelds around us.
We have not heard of any accident."-— Edinburgh Courant, June 1830.
“ On Thursday night last the eastern part of Kent was visited by an
alarming appearance of the atmosphere: in almost every part the
378 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
by the vital ﬂuid being thus arrested in its progress
to us: these rains and tempests occasioning devas
tation, disease, and death. For, as our atmosphere
becomes more condensed, the parasitical races of
animals will, on the contrary, increase, not only in
the solid, but in the ﬂuid and the aeriform state,
electric ﬂuid illuminated the heavens, and often presented them in one
blaze. From eleven to twelve o‘clock the scene was terriﬁc. From
all the accounts that have reached us, it appears the heaviness of the
storm was most severely felt at Margate, the effects of which it is
almost impossible to describe. Hail, rain, thunder, and lightning,
descended in quick succession: the largest hail-stones seen within the
recollection of man covered the ground. The damage done is esti
mated to exceed l,0001."—Kentand Essex Jlferrury, July 18, 1832.
“ The eﬂ'ects of the storm on Thursday night at Margate were of a
nature almost unprecedented in this country. Even those who were
well acquainted with tropical climates, allowed that they had seldom
seen one in which the bail was more destructive. Not less than
l5,000 panes of glass are computed to have been destroyed by it in
that town, while in the nearly adjoining village of Birchington no
injury whatever was done. In the new church 100 panes were
broken. Scarcer one pane escaped in the front of the Ship Inn.
The sky-light in the,roof of the Hoy Inn having been broken in, the
rain ran through the house in an irnpetuous torrent. In very many
housesthe inhabitants sat upall night.“—Kentish Gazette, July 19, 1832.
Alarming Thmuler-Stoml.—“ On Saturday last there was :1 most tre
mendous thunder storm in the south-east part of this country, accom
panied with the most destructive hail-shower ever witnessed by the
oldest inhabitants. The clouds collected on the mountains near
'Draperstown, and fell out on along range of country, passing over
'l‘obennorc. It crossed the Mayola river, and then taking a course
between Maghera and Meeloghrim-hill, conveyed destruction Where
evcr it went. The crops have been very much injured, particularly
oats, and the late potatoes. Some of the hail-stones were two inches
and :1 half in circumference, and in some places they were found
twenty-four hours after in an unmclted state. They were of various
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 379
and commit greater depredations on the ascending
creation; thus withdrawing by degrees from man his
supply of nutriment?“ If, therefore, mechanism be
not limited or entirely stopped, our earth‘s atmos
phere will eventually become so condensed as to be
unlit for its present race of inhabitants. Mankind
will degenerate in height, in width, and strength;
till by the increased pressure, he will, with all the
ascending creation, become reduced to the primitive
stature.
shapes, and as hard as solid ice. Many windows were broken by
them, and small wild birds were in many places found lying dead."—
Derry Sentinel, August 24, 1832.
A Terrible Stonn.-"We have been favoured bya gentleman ofLenton,
near this town, (says the Nottingham Mercury, October 11, 1834,) with
the following extract of a letter received from Colonel S. Stretton,
who is on a tour in Italy, dated Battaglia, near Padua, August 29:
‘- We have just had a most dreadful storm, which fell upon the city of
Padua, about six miles off; the masses of ice which fell were about
20lb. weight, and three feet in circumference; they broke in all the
roofs of the houses in that halfof the city in which they fell, (only one
half was visited,) demolished the large marble statues, windows, 810.,
and beat the lead on the roof of the cathedral into large holes, as if
with heavy hammers. About 3,000,0001. wouldbe required in England
to replace the damage done to the houses now in ruins. l was look
ing at the storm in this place, where although, thank God, no masses
of ice fell, yet we had torrents of rain and dreadful thunder."
The fearful thunder-storm which occurred during this last summer,
must be still fresh in the recollection of the reader.
" “The number of distinct species of insects already known and
described cannot be estimated at less than 100,000; and every day
has added to the catalogue.
“ Four-ﬁfths of the insects, at present known, have been discovered
within the last ninety years; for, in 1743, Ray estimated the total
number of species at 20,000 only. See his work on “ the Wisdom of
380 THE mscovsmr OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Fevers, mania, and consumption will multiply in
God “manifested in the Creation. (P. 24.)“— Dr. Roget‘s Animal and
Vegetable Physiology.
“ In botany, when the species known in the time of Linnaeus were
about 10,000, they are now about 100,000."—me.jWhewell.
Singular Phenomenon.~—“ Early last Monday morning this city was
visited by myriads of a small sort of ﬂy, larger than the midge, but
much smaller than the common house-ﬂy, and having very long wings.
The air was ﬁlled with them, and they settled by hundreds upon the
persons of those who were abroad at the time. We learn by the
Lincolnshire Chronicle that a similar phenomenon was observed at
Spalding, on Sunday week; and that the annoyance occasioned by
these insects was suﬂicient to remind one of the plagues of Egypt."—
York Herald, October, 1834.
“Some tracts ofthe province of Murcia, in Spain, are at this moment
suffering from a destructive insect, called Paulina. It is a white ﬂy,
with black stripes on its wings and back, similar to a bug, but of a
larger size. These insects have come in such swarms that, like the
locusts in Egypt, they sometimes darken the sun. They alight on a
ﬁeld of ripe corn, where they remain twenty-four hours, leaving
on the car an infectious matter, which immediately dries up the stalk,
and changes the grain into a paste similar to starch. It is said that
if the corn were used for bread, it would prove mortal. Fortunately,
nature seems to have denied to this destructive insect the instinct of
self-preservation. It suﬂ‘ers itself to be approached and caught. It
only alights on wheat, Indian corn, and rye, and disdains all other
corn. The country people, encouraged by the authorities, collect
these insects with as much care as olives. They are put into bags and
afterwards destroyed. The corn-ﬁelds are then set on ﬁre in the
presence of soldiers sent by the authorities, in order to prevent the
inhabitants gathering the dangerous produce.“--Galignani'sMessenger,
July 15, 1833.
“ The Zara Gazette announces that in Hungary millions of beetles
are devouring the crops and the foliage. To destroy them, smoke
and other means have been resorted to, but without success, as these
experiments appear rather to make them come out of the ground than
to exterminate them." July, 1834.
'l‘uint in the Potato Crop—“We are sorry to learn from various
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 381
afrightful degree; plagues, pestilence, and famine:
quarters that taint in the potato crop, a new disease in the South of
Scotland, is becoming pretty general. Three years ago the potato
seed failed in certain ﬁelds in the neighbourhood ofWhithorn, greatly
to the injury of poor persons; and in 1831, if our memory serves us
right, the same thing occurred in the neighbourhood of Kirkcndbright.
This year the evil, increased at Whithorn, has reached the Borough
roads of Wigtown, and other parts of the shire; and not a. few ﬁelds
have been ploughed down and sown with turnip, from the extraordi
nary scantiness of the potato braird. In Annandale and Nithsdale
complaints are made to the same effect. In a ﬁeld situate very near
this town, the seed germinated at one end of the rows and rotted at
the other, from causes which no one can satisfactorily explain. In
the parish of Kier, where the seed in one ﬁeld was examined the
moment danger was apprehended, portions of it were found ﬁlled with
worms: and in other instances one-half of the cuts were found soft,
and the other nearly as hard as marble."—G lasng Chronicle. _
“Considerable interest has been lately excited amongst persons
residing on the banks of the Themes by the vast numbers of ﬁsh,
in a diseased state, consisting of roach, dace, barbel, &e., taking
shelter under the banks and in the shallow water. Some, on exami
nation, have been found to be covered with a kind of fur, with a
small species of leech adhering to them; others have been eaten
almost in two by some disease. The present unhealthy season appears
to have affected even the ﬁnny tribe; the oldest ﬁshermen cannot
recollect a season of so much mortality amongst ﬁsh. They ascribe
it to the long-continued cold weather, especially at the time ofspawn
ing, when the ﬁsh are weak and unable to bear the cold."
Ezlrmrdinary Phenomenon.-—“ Yesterday evening Mr. J. Parker, Mr.
J. Rogers, Mr. A. Scott, and several other persons, being at Three
mile house, observed something in the air, which they at ﬁrst took
to be mist or fog, but, as the evening was clear, they were induced to
take more notice of it, and by holding their hands above their eyes, so
as to exclude the rays of the sun, they could distinctly see the bodies
of insects, apparently of a red or crimson colour. They were in
sheets, with trains after them resembling that of a comet; each sheet
of these insects appeared by itself, and they were moving in a direc
tion from west to east, about twenty-ﬁve or thirty feet from the
earth, and at least twenty yards in width, following each other in
382 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
monsters will arise and overﬂow this land of plenty :*
the sun will be obscured, and the night turned into
dayrl~ Finally, man and all the present races of
animals will become extinct, not a trace or remnant
left.
Our planet is approaching nearer to the sun every
year, by the contraction or condensation of their
mutual atmospheres: these are gradually condensing
into charcoal, and as we come nearer to his body,
ﬂocks like the pigeons; they observed the passage of these insects for
more than twenty minutes, the sun at the time being more than one
hour high."—Hul_ifax Scotian, October, 1834.
° “Frogs, in passing from the egg to maturity, go through an
mtemwdiate state, in which they are called tadpoles. They then not
only have no limbs, and possess a tail, but, like ﬁshes, live in water,
and breathe by means of gills instead of lungs. Dr. Edwards took a
considerable number of frogs in this state, and dividing them into two
portions, placed them under water in perfectly similar circumstances,
except that the one portion was exposed to light, and the other was
excluded from it. This ditl'erence had the very remarkable eﬁ‘ect of
retarding the transformation of the latter to the state of perfect frogs.
Whilst the tadpoles in the light had undergone this change, several
of those in the dark retained their original form, but had greatly
increased in size. The effect of the absence of light appears likewise
tobe shown in the colour and structure of the proteus, and some
other animals, which inhabit situations into which light never enters.“
Saturday Magazine.
1- When the disciples enquired of our Lord, " What shall be the sign
of thy coming, and of the end of the world?" they were told that
“famines, pcstilcnces, and earthquakes" would be the “ beginning of
sorrows” at that time. Matthew, xxiv. “I, 8." And that “then shall
be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world
to this time, no, nor ever shall be :“ vcr. 21. And “ immediately a or
the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon
shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven. and the
powers of the heavens shall be shaken, Sac. :" ver. 29.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 383
they will grow more cloudy, until he is quite ob
soured.
“ I had a dream which was not all a dream.
The bright sun was cxtinguish‘d, and the stars
Did wander darkling in the eternal space,
Raylcss and pathless, and the icy earth
Swung blind and blackening in the mooniess air;
Morn came, and went,-—nnd came, and brought no day,
And men forgot their passions in the dread
Of this their desolation; and all hearts
Were chill‘d into a selﬁsh prayer for light:
And they did live by watchﬁres—and the thrones,
The palaces ofcrowned kings—the huts',
The habitatious of all things which dwell,
Were burnt for beacons; cities were consumed,
And men were gathered round their blazing homes
To look once more into each other‘s face;
Happy were those who dwelt within the eye
Of the volcanos, and their mountain torch;
A fearful hope was all the world contain'd;
Forest were set on ﬁre—but hour by hour
They fell and faded—and the crackling trunks
Extinguish'd with a crash—and all was black.
The brows of men by the despairing light
Wore an unearthly aspect,‘ as by ﬁts
The flashes fell; some lay down
And hid their eyes and wept; and some did rest
Their chins upon their clenched hands, and smiled ;
And others hurried to and fro, and fed
Their funeral piles with fuel, and looked up
° “ Their visage is blacker than a coal; they are not known in the
streets : their skin cleaveth to their bones; it is withered, itis become
like a stick."—-Lam. Jeremiah, iv. 8.
“ And above shall they look, and to the earth cast their eyes,
And behold! horror and black tempest,
Gloom heap‘d together, and conglomerated darkness."
Isaiah, chap. viii. 22. Tmnslatedﬁom the Hebrew by M. Good.
384 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
With mad disquietude on the dull sky
The pall of a past world ;'
§ * O 0
All earth was but one thought, and that was deal/1.
immediate and inglorious.
. , I Q I‘
* " ' The world was void,
The populace and the powerful was a lump,
Seasonlcss, herbless, treeless, manless, lifeless—
A lump of death—a chaos ofhard clay.
The rivers, lakes, and ocean, all stood still,
And nothing stirred within their silent depths;
Ships sailorless lay rotting on the sea,
And their masts fell down piecemeal ; as they dropp'd
They slept on the abyss without a surge-—
The waves were dead; the tides were in their grave,
The moon their mistress had expired before;
The winds were withered in the stagnant air,
And the clcuds perish‘d ; Darkness had no need
Of aid from them—She was the Universe.“
Darkness. Lord
It must indeed be evident to every observing
mind, that the earth is fast approaching its third
or aerial stage of existence. There is a deﬁnite
period afﬁxed for its change, and like all changes
of matter, it will be wrought by the power of gra
vitation or pressure.
The earth’s atmosphere, which grows with its
‘ “ A psll of darkness veils
The land of Palestine ;—-a stilly gloom,
More dreadful than the deepest night. The hills
Grow dim; the rivers roll, as if in wrath!
And men, with quailing limbs and dropping lips,
Come forth, and stare, tongue-tied, upon the skies!“
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAX. 385
growth, is daily becoming more and more affected
by the internal convulsions of its body, and the
condensation of this third form of matter will pro
duce the aeriform existence of our planet. A decrease
of longevity has already taken place; disease and
death have, during the last few years, been making
unusual ravages: consequently, a larger supply
has been afforded for the organization of both earth
and moon. These, I repeat, are not two bodies,
but belong to each other, being connected by their
medium or atmosphere; compression of either
portion being felt at the other part, or extreme, of
the body. The moon is said to be approaching
the earth, and this is really the case. By their
mutual increase of size they are rapidly condensing
the ﬂuid medium in which they ﬂoat: they are
even now approximating to each other, and, by
the increasing condensation of the connecting ﬂuid,
will be brought nearer and nearer, till they ﬁnally
become incorporated? The atmosphere, oxygen,
or iron, by enclosing the boiling liquid elementary
“ “ The oblique muscles attached to the head, are so disposed, as
to be capable of steadying the globe, as well as of moving it. The
head of a new born infant is often obliged to be ﬁlleted up. After
death, the head drops and rolls in every direction. So that it is by
the equilibre of the muscles, by the aid of a considerable and equipol—.
lent muscular force in constant exertion, that the head maintains its
erect posture."—Pale_y‘s Natural T Ct'ngll
C C
386 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
diamond, preserves it through the changez“ this
crystalline case, at the surface of our atmosphere,
gradually extending itself over the whole machine,
will envelope all the antecedent surface within
its graspd‘ becoming at last so dense as to produce
° Dr. Herschel], in giving an account of three spots or volcanic
eruptions he observed in the moon, says, “the appearance of what I
have called the actual ﬁre, or eruption ofa volcano, exactly resembled
a small piece of burning r‘llal‘ttml when it is covered by a very thin (out
cfwhite ashes, which frequently adheres to it after it has been some
time ignited; and it had a degree ofbrightueu, about as strong as that
with which such a coal would be seen to glow in faint daylight. All
the adjacent parts of the volcanic mountain seemed to be faintly illu
minated by the eruption, and were gradually more obscure as they
lay at a distance from the crater."
1' “ 'l‘he air-vessel at the broad end of an incubated egg gradually
extends its edges along the sides of the shell, as the egg enlarges, but
is at the same time applied closer to the internal surface of the shell :
when the time of hatching approaches, the chick is liable to break this
air-bag with its beak, and thence begin to breathe and to chirp: at
this time, the edges of the enlarged nir-bag extend so as to cover in
ternally one hemisphere of the egg; and as one-half of the external
shell is thus moist, and the other half dry, as soon as the mother,
hearing the chick chirp, or the chick itself wanting respirable air
strikes the egg, about its equatorial line, it breaks into two hemis
pheres, and liberates the prisoner.“—Dr. Darwin.
Mr. Monck Mason proceeds, as follows, with the Narrative of the
Balloon Voyage to \Vielburg :—
“ It was new past midnight, and the world and its inhabitants had
ﬁnally committed themselves to repose. Every light was extinguished
and every sound hushed into silence; even the dreadful note of the
vigilant watch-dog, which had frequently contributed to enliven our
course during the previous portion of the night, had now ceased; and
darkness and tranquillity reigned paramount over the whole adjacmil
surface of the globe.
“ From this period ofour voyage, until the dawning of the following
3
, _<1_r~
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 387
a completely electrical combustion or universal
conﬂagration, thus bringing about the change of
the planet to the third or aeriform state, which will
day, the record of our adventures becomes tinged with the obscurity
of night. The face of nature completely excluded from our view,
except when circumstances occasionally brought us into nearer contact
with the earth, all our observations during the above period are
necessarily conﬁned to a register of incidents and sensations mingled
with vague conjectures, and clouded with the mystery wherewith
darkness and uncertainty were destined to involve so large a portion
of the remainder of our expedition. The moon, to which we might
have looked up for companionship and assistance, had she been present,
was nowhere to be seen. The sky, at all times darker when viewed
from an elevation than it appears to those inhabiting the lower regions
of the earth, seemed almost black with the intensity of night; while,
by contrast no doubt, and the rcmotion of intervening vapours, the
stars, redoubled in their lustre, shone like sparks ofthe whitest silver
scattered upon the jetty dome around us. Occasionally faint ﬂashes of
lightning, proceeding chieﬂy from the northern hemisphere, would
for an instant illuminate the horizon, and after disclosing a transient
prospect of the adjacent country, suddenly subside, leaving us in
volved in more than our original obscurity. Nothing in fact could
exceed the density of night which prevailed during this particular
period ofthe voyage. Not a single object of terrestrial nature could
anywhere be distinguished; an unfathomable abyss of “darkness
visible“ seemed to encompass us on every side; and, as we looked
forward into its black obscurity in the direction in which we were
proceeding, we could scarcely avoid the impression that we were
clearing our way through an interminable mass of black marble in
which we were imbedded, and which, solid a few inches before us,
seemed to soften as we approached, in Order to admit us still farther
into the precincts of its cold and dusky enclosure. Even the lights
which at times we lowered from the car, instead of dispelling, only
tended to augment the intensity of the surrounding darkness, and as
they descended deeper into its frozen bosom, appeared absolutely to
melt their way onward by means of the heat which they generated in
their course.
“The cold, during this part of the night especially, was certainly
388 THE DISCOVERY or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
be produced, in this instance, not by water, as
was the former, or fmtal life, but by the more
powerful agency ofﬁre.*"
We learn from Mrs. Somerville, that “ water boils
intense, as could be perceived not less from the indications of the
thermometer, (ranging variously from within a few degrees below, to
the point of congi-IationQ than from the effects which it produced
upon the different liquors wherewith we were provided. The water,
coﬁ'ce, and, of course, the oil in our several vessels, were completer
frozen; and it was only by the actual application of the heat of the
lamp that we were enabled to procure a sufficiency of the latter to
supply our wants, during the long term of darkness to which we were
about to be subjected.
“We appeared to be traversing large tracts of countiy partially
covered with snow, diversiﬁed with forests, and intersected occasion
ally with rivers, ofwhich the Mensa, in the earlier part of the night,
and the Rhine, towards the conclusion, formed, as we aﬁerwsrds
learned, the principal objects, both of our admiration and of our con
jeetures.
“ Large masses of ﬂeecy clouds would at times likewise occupy the
lower regions of the atmosphere, intercepting our view as we descended,
and for a while leaving us in doubt whether they were not a continu
ation of those snowy districts which we so frequently had occasion to
remark.
“ From out of this mass of vapours, more than once during the
night our ears became assailed with sounds bearing so strong a resem
blance to the rushing of waters in enormous volumes, or the beating
of waves upon some extensive line of coast, that it required all our
powers of reasoning, aided by the certain knowledge we had of the
direction we were pursuing, to remove the conviction that we were
approaching the precincts of the sea, and transported by the winds,
were either thrown back upon the shores of the German ocean, or
about to enter upon the remoter limits of the Baltic.“
" “ According to the tradition of the Greeks, the world has been
twice menaced with universal ruin: once by ﬁre, and once by water.“
4". Good.
Speaking of the celestial bodies, Cicero (in his work Of the Nam-e
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 389
at different temperatures under different degrees of
pressure. There is no limit to the temperature to
which water might be raised; it might even be
made red hot, could a vessel be found strong
enough to resist the pressure. The expansive
force of steam is in proportion to the temperature
at which the water boils; it may therefore be in
creased to a degree that is only limited by our ina
bility to restrain it, and is the greatest power that
has been made subservient to the wants of man."*
“The expansion of steam is indeﬁnite; the smallest
qftbe Coda) says, “ from hence we stoics conclude, which Panetius is
said to have doubted of, that the whole world at last would be in a
general conﬂagration; when, all moisture being exhausted, neither
the earth could have any nourishment, nor the air return again, since
water, of which it is formed, would then be all consumed; so that only
ﬁre would subsist, and from this ﬁre, which is an animating power
and a deity, a new world would arise and be re-established in the
same beauty."
“And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it he also in the days
of the Son ot'mnn. They did eat, they drank, they married wires.
they were given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the
ark, and the ﬂood came and destroyed them all. Likewise also as it
was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they
sold, they planted, they huilded; but the same day that Lot went out
of Sodom, it rained ﬁre and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed
them all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is
revealed."—-Luke, xvii. 26, 30.
' “Strange that there should slumber in yonder tranquil pond in
power so tremendous that, could we condense and direct its energies, it
might cleave the solid earth in twain, and yet so gentle that it maybe
governed, and applied, and set to perform its stupendous miracles by a
child. This discovery that water would resist being boiled above 212
degrees, has conferred upon England, and its manufactures, a supre
390 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
quantity of water, when reduced to the form of
vapour, will occupy many millions of cubic feet.”
This earth may be considered a self-generator of
steam, and it is not difﬁcult to conceive the effect
of restraint upon the vast mass' of heated vapour
contained within its body. Such compression
must undoubtedly force the planet to ascend into
a new sphere, and enter upon the aeriform or loco
motive period of its existence.‘
That matter, as exhibited on the surface of our
macy, and will eventually produce changes, both moral and physical,
of which it is difficult to limit the extent.
“ One bushel of coals properly consumed, will raise seventy millions
of pounds a foot high.
“ The Menai bridge, weighing four millions of pounds, suspended
at a medium height of 120 feet, might have been raised where it is by
seven bushels of coals. M. Dupin estimates the steam engines of
England to possess a moving power equivalent to that of 6,400,000
men at the Windlass. And this stupendous agent is at present only
in its infancy."
' “On Saturday morning last, about seven o‘clock, the neigh
bourhood of Upper Easton, near this city, was thrown into great
alarm by the sudden explosion of a large steam-engine boiler, on the
premises of Messrs. Bayly and Ho, lead smelters. The effect was
most terriﬁc, and showed the immense power of steam. The boiler,
which was nearly twelve feet high and thirty-ﬁre feet in circum
ference, and which weighed between three and four tons, was
literally carried through the roof of the building, over an adjoining
workshop, into a ﬁeld thirty yards distant, tearing down a stack of
chimneys in its way. As it ascended it could only likened to an
7 immense balloon rushing through the air. The shower of rafters,
bricks, tiles, and stones, which accompanied the explosion, was truly
awful; the road and ﬁelds close to the works were covered with the
fallen fragments; and a large broad-wheel waggon, loaded with small
coal, the whole weighing four tons, was thrown several yards and tip
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 39]
earth, exists in a state of bondage, must be evident
upon the most casual observation. The animal
productions of the foetal body are chained to its
surface by an iron bond, but, when the aeriform or
locomotive life of the planet commences, these,
being puriﬁed by combustion, will be restored
to their natural form and kind, resuming their
existence in a more exalted sphere. Having
set, the near hind-wheel being struck off at the axle-tree. We are
sorry to say that six persons, including the engineer, who was sup
p0sed to have been feeding the fire at the time, were dreadfully scalded,
and taken to the Inﬁrmary; three of the sufferers have since died, one
of whom was a boy, who was unfortunately in the ash-pit immediately
under the boiler at the time the explosion took place; he was much
sulded, and buried beneath the ruins; the other three are still in
great danger. An inquest has been held upon the bodies of the three
unfortunate victims, when the Jury returned a verdict of “ Accidental
Death, caused by the indiscretion of the engineer is placing too much
weight on the safety valve."-- Bristol Gazette.
“ That a gradual increase of pressure can produce all the effects of
the must violent explosions, may be inferred from many cases on
record, attributed with probability to this cause; and was proved
conclusively by the direct experiments of this committee. (Cum
mitm: oft/w Franklin Institute.) In these latter, cylinders of copper
and iron were violently torn asunder, and the parts thrown from their
places, scattering the materials of the temporary furnaces over
which fthey had been heated, and of the ﬁre, to considerable
distances.
“ This effect is well illustrated by the rendering of a copper cylinder
just referred to. The subjoined ﬁgure and extract are from the ﬁrst
part of the Report of the Committee on Explosions, &c. p. 68. (Iowa,
Franklin Institute, vol. xvii. pp. 224, 225.)
“ As before, nothing remarkable occurred previous to the instant of
explosion, and the members of the committee, employed in the expe
riments, were engaged in observing the boiler at the instant it ex
ploded. A dense cloud of smoke and flame, capped by steam, rose
from the pit; the stones and couibustihles were widely scattered, and
the boiler was thrown, in a single mass, about ﬁfteen feet from tho
392 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
undergone decomposition or death, the seeds of
the future race of beings will be accumulated by
attraction into one complete body of perfectly
elastic purity, and in this manner he preserVed
to their ultimate destiny. _
There can be no doubt but that the labour of
aeronauts will succeed, if persevered in; for
“ Man's heart th' Almighty to the future sets,
By secret and invioluble springs."
The human mind, by this time, will comprehend,
furnace. The noise attending the explosion, was like that from the
ﬁring of an eight-inch mortar.
“ 'l‘he boiler was rent, as shown in the accompanying ﬁgure, giving
way in an irregular line, just above the probable water-line on one
side of the boiler, but not conforming to it. d and b were the lowest
points in the two heads before the explosion. The sheet of coppvr
was torn from the heads, unrolled and irregularly bent, adhering to
the heads for only a short distance near the top of each, and the heads
were bent oulwurrls. The thickness of the copper along the line of
rupture, varies from 0.25 to 0.35 of an inch, and the metal appears to
have been highly heated at "NC end iy'the (urn purlion."-—Mcrhmit's
Magminc, December 24, l836. I
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 393
from the perusal of the preceding pages, how a rem
nant of the virtuous portion ofmankind may be saved
alive in the last day by the very powerful invention
of balloons. Ere the awful termination of the
present abode of man, let us hope we may see the
surrounding atmosphere spotted and illumined by
moving vessels of every description, as we now be
hold them on the waters. Here then is excitement
for genius and talent to unite in every possible
way: not a moment should be lost in devising the
means of preservation from the impending danger.
“Awake!
Thou, who shalt wake, when the creation sleeps;
When, like a taper, all these suns expire;
\Vhen time, like him of Gaza‘ in his wrath,
Plucking the pillars that support the world,
In nature‘s ample ruins lies entomb‘d;
And midnight, universal midnight, reigns." Young.
' Samson. Judges, xvi , 29, 30.
394 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
CHAPTER VIII.
THE FGE'I‘US OF THE UNIVERSE.
(Continuedfrom page 61.)
“ Where ends this mighty building? “'here begin
The suburbs of creation? Where the wall
Whose battlemeuts look o'er into the vale
Of non-existence, Nothing‘s strange abode?
Say, at what point of space Jehovah dropp‘d
His slacken‘d line, and laid his balance by?
Weigh‘d worlds, and measured inﬁnite no more?
Where rears his terminating pillar high,
Its extra-mundane head ; and says, to gods,
In characters illustrious as the Sun,
I stand, the plan's proud period; Ipronoimre
The work accomplish'd, the creation closed!"
Youxo.
THE Universal Foetus has been formerly described
to be divided into three states of matter united in
one: a solid centre or heart (which is our sun); the
ﬂuid medium around that heart, containing the
several organs of the fmtal body; and an elastic
boundary or skin, which encloses the two former.
I shall resume the subject, at that point where I then
found it necessary to break off, viz. the last of these
three divisions—the Zodiac, or solar boundary.
__ _‘ _-_r 1.;! V~A~M
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 395
’7“, .__
The Zodiac is composed of the scum or refuse of
the sun's matter; these impure materials are rejected
from the centre and repelled to the surface of its
sphere, there to become condensed by loss of heat,
and to pass through every gradation in the scale of
descending organization, until they are ﬁnally re
united at the apex, and returned inwardly in a new
and improved form, through all the ascending
degrees of life, to the heart, whence they were, in
the ﬁrst instance, ejected.
The earth we inhabit has been shown to be an
epitome of the more extended universe, being, like
it, divided into three distinct forms of matterz“ it is
the outermost of these which I am now describing,
and whatever we have found to be true of the con
dition of matter on the surface of our planet, may
be applied, on a larger scale, to the present subject.
The universal boundary, like that of the earth,
consists of a series of spheres; each sphere being
composed of the solid, ﬂuid, and aeriforrn states
of matter, united by its peculiar line of gra
vitation, by means of which it is enabled to support
" “ In the process of hatching an egg, the germinal membrane, as it
is ralI-wl, or rudimental part of the chick, is observed to become
separated into three layers, from the external of which are formed
subsequently the osseous and muscular systems, and the brain, spinal
cord, and nerves; while, from the middle and internal layers, are
formed respectively the heart and blood-vessels, and the intestinal
canal and its appendages.“
Bushman’s Introduction to the Shuljl of Nature.
396 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
its individual existence. Let the reader imagine
the solar or universal sphere, (see diagram 1,) con
tracted and placed within the body ofour planet (B),
, pole to pole: lines drawn, under these circumstances,
from the surface of the earth (B, diagram 2,) to the
constellations or stars within (0), would describe
the several gravitating points of the animal boun
dary of the earth (A, D) : the surface of the earth
we inhabit being analogous to the upper portion
(D) of those spheres, the lower part of which (A)
we nightly view in the widely-spread canopy of the
heavens. (See further explanation below the dia
grams.) There islands and continents are pro
gressively forming, each of these having its ﬂuid
medium and aeriform animal boundary, by which
it is connected with its adjoining sphere and the
whole universal membrane, or web of life. W'ho
shall then deny the existence of celestial seas, White,
Black, and Red? or hesitate to believe that the
animals the ancients have represented to be the
inhabitants of that exalted region, really do exist
there in forms typiﬁed on a minute scale at our
planet? The celestial Dog, the Bear, &c. must no
longer be considered mere fables of the imagination.
The solar boundary is one continued series of
parasitical life; the animal, vegetable, and mineral
kingdoms being there fully developed, each deri
ving its constant supply of nourishment from the
internal fabric—the universe. Man himself there
mu
Diagram l.
A
// A \
\\_//
Diagram 2.
©
A, (Diagram 1,) represents the base ofthe zodiac or solar atmosphere,
being the extent of the sun‘s sphere. B is the earth's surface, (the
planet being placed for convenience in the centre.) A, (Diagram 2,)
represents the base of the zodiac as before, B being also the surface of
the earth as given in Diagram 1. C is an imaginary contrac
tion of the circle A, and shows the real gravitating points of the
earth‘s surface (13.) D is an imaginary extension of the earth‘s
surface, (B) showing the actual surface of the zodiac 0r solar boun
daty, The earth beng a true miniature of the more extended
universe.
0R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 397
exists, his size and powers proportioned to the
enlarged region he inhabits: he is the centre of
each individual sphere, being surrounded by the
works of his own hands, and progressing like the
terrestrial man in knowledge and mechanism to a
certain limit: the foundation or base on which he
moves has been deposited by the decay of his pre
decessors, all being alike subject to the powerful
law of gravitation.* By the decomposition of one
' “ That the heathens thought the rise of a new star, or the appear
ance of a comet, portended the birth of a great person, has been
proved by Origen, (contra Cehum, lib. l.) Farther, it appears from
Virgil, that it was commonly imagined the gods sent stars to point
out the way to their favourites in difﬁcult and perplexed cases; and
that the ancients called globes of ﬁre appearing in the air, stars.
“Subitoque fragore
Intonuit hevum, et de coclo lapsa per umhras
Stella facem ducens Inuth cum luce cucurrit." E". ii. 692.
Burder.
The Scriptures inform us that a new star really did appear in the
east, at the birth of our Saviour. Thus the wise men, who came
from the east to Jerusalem, (Matthew ii. 1, 2,) enquired, “ Where is he
that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east,
and are come to worship him." And when they departed thence to
go to Bethlehem, “ the star which they saw in the east, went before
them, till it came and stood over where the young child was."
(Matthew, ii. 9.)
“ The ancients had an opinion, says Slzuclyiird, (Connection, vol. 2,
b. 8, p. 282,) that their great men and heroes at their death migrated
into some star; and in consequence of that they deiﬁed them. Thus
Julius Caesar was canonizcd, because of a star that appeared at his
death, into which they supposed he was gone. Vide Sucron. Jul. cap.
88. Virg. Eel. it. 47. Horace, lib. i. 0d. 12.“—Burder's Oriental
('urloms.
398 THE DISCOVERY or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
race ofanimals is always erected a new and improved
species; and thus is the progression of animal
machinery carried on: for all matter is of animal
origin, and life one continued state of combustion,
progressing from the most minute animal up to a
certain deﬁnite size.
All animal bodies contain within themselves the
principles ofboth heat and light. Heat is the quality
of the pure diamond, light that of the pure iron:""
There is no doubt that the decomposition of matter at the surface
of the solar sphere produces these respective luminaries.
“ According to a curious memorial published by Professor Olmsted,
it appears that a meteoric cloud of numerous ﬂitting stars circulates
round the sun like a planet, and comes very near the earth at that
point of its orbit which corresponds with November. The central
point of this mass of luminous bodies is ﬁxed by the American
astronomers in the constellation of L90.“—Gulignani'8 JIessenger.—
See the notes to pages 60 and 61 of this work.
' “ lll'itl. is always from the hydrogen.“—Prquor Brande.
“ Mr. Schecle says heat is a mixture of oxygen with phlogiston It
appears he meant hydrogen."
“Oxygen gas," said Lavoisier, “seems to be a compound of the
matter of haul, and a basis. In the act of burning, this basis is united
to the combustible body, and the heat is evolved.“—Dar_y.
“ An illuminated gas is said to have been discovered at Birmingham ,
superior to all others, and obtained from water."
In a very interesting lecture delivered by Mr. Bachhoﬂ'ner, at the
Artist‘s Society, in Clipston Street, Fitzroy Square, that gentleman
described “the nature of the light produced from the combustion of
the oxygen and hydrogen gases, their greatest eﬂ‘ect being produced
when united in the exact proportion in which they enter into the
composition of water: namely, one part of oxygen to two of hydrogen
in bulk; or eight of oxygen to one of hydrogen in weight. The
light produced from this combination of gases is free to an almost
perfect degree from the objections just named in relation to the Ol'dl
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 399
these can never be entirely separated; where the
diamond or heat exists in an active state, the light
or iron is latent or inactive; and, vice versa, where
the heat is latent, the light aboundsﬁ"
nary lights now in use; its rays are white, or nearly so, and therefore
present the object to the eye of the beholder under an appearance in
every respect similarto that which it bears in the daytime; the heat
produced, though very intense at the actual point of combustion, is
barely sensible at the distance ofa few inches from the light, and no
‘ emancipated blacks‘ or unconsumed carbon is let louse to deﬁle the
fair texture of neighbouring objects. With such advantages to
recommend this light, it may appear somewhat extraordinary that it
has not yet been adopted for more general use ;—the only obstacle
h'tln'rio in the way of its employment has been the danger which
exists in mixing these two gases, hydrogen and oxygen, in any con
siderable quantities for consumption, as, so mixed, they immediately
explode, and that with tremendous force, when presented toa burning
substance.“
" “ One element appears where the electricity enters, the other where
it goes out. Thus hydrogen is evolved where the electricity goes
out, oxygen where it enters."-—Mr. Brands.
“The ltalian natural philosopher, Melloni, has recently invented
a mode of depriving the rays of light of caloric, which seems to open
the way to great discoveries respecting the nature of light, when
thus insulated. His method is very simple: he passes the sun‘s
rays through a combination of transparent bodies (water, and a par
ticular sort of glass, coloured green with oxide of copper), which
bodies absorb all the caloric, and but little of the light. The light
thus separated from its caloric is very yellow, with a green tinge; and
when so concentrated by lenses, as to be as bright as the direct ray,
the most delicate thermometer does not show the smallest degree of
warmth. It has long been known that the prism, besides dividing the
my into its several pencils of colours, separated at one end of the
spettrum a pencil of heat-making rays, and at the other a pencil of
chemically-acting rays, both perceptible only by their effect; but this
mode Of severing the heat from the light offered little means of
experimenting upon the unadulterated light, of which Melloni's
discovery seems to give the philosopher as complete command as he
has of the gases, 8m.“
D D
400 THE mscovsav or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Diamond is the base of hydrogen, iron that of
oxygen: the two substances are the same; the only
difference is in the temperature. Hydrogen pre
ponderates at the top of the scale, oxygen at the
bottom: hydrogen produces life at the temperature
of 212, oxygen preserves the ﬂame! At the central
point of the line of gravitation—our sun, which is
ever in a state of combustion, these materials
combine in the proportion of pure water.
The point of extreme heat is situated in the
centre of our universe: from this point the matter
ejected must decrease in intensity until it reaches
the apex or point of extreme coldrl
“ From frost to ﬁre, from ﬁre to winter's frost,
All, all has limits; heat and cold intense,
Th” extremes creating; while progressive warmth
Fills up between the modulated scale.
Thus each degree, though varying, varies not
For ever, by extremes adverse conﬁned.
Combustion here, and there the polar ice.“—Lurrclius.
This glass or crystalline boundary surrounds
‘ “To the term combustible is naturally attached the idea of the
body so named aﬂ'ording heat and light. Of this position, it has been
often remarked, that We have no evidence whatever. We know, on the
other hand, that oxygen, the incombnstible, could yield from its latent
stores, in Black's language, both the light and heat displayed in com
bustion; for mere mechanical condensation of gas, in a syringe, causes
their disengagement. A similar condensation of the combustible
hydrogen, occasions, I believe, the evolution of no light.“—-Dr. Urc.
1' It appears to have been the opinion of the great Leibnitz, that
the following was the mode in which the earth was formed:
“Chaos ﬁrst reigned; a conﬂagration melted the mass; and sub
stances acquired dillerent degrees of hardness from ﬂuid water to
vitriﬁed gems, in proportion to the time they were in cooling."-—Sce
Miscellanequ Works of Gibbon, Vol. v. p. 463.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 401
every body, large or smallﬁ“ Without this atmos
phere, or skin, bodies of a solid form could not
move. It is the motion of the internal body
which keeps up the temperature of the elastic
° “ The word we render by the term sky, or skies, for it is always
used in the plural, is derived from a root, (PM) which signiﬁes to
CUﬂllltiltllte, grind, or wear by friction; implying powers that come in
contact from opposite directions, so as to be antagonist or conﬂicting
powers." ‘ ' ' ' “ The proper translation of the word, which our
version, after the septuagint, renders ﬁrmrmmnt, is—t-he expansion.
And God said, let there be an expansion, and let it divide the waters, 8:0.
The cause of expansion is heat, which naturally divides and separates
that in which it acts; as we see in the case of evaporation and the
ascent ofsteam ' and not only this, but the expansive force consolidates
that \vhereon its impact is, whence our translation renders the word,
after the Greek, sepwpa, the ﬁrmumrnt, that which renders all things
jinn, the action of which produces the cohesion of the atoms of bodies,
and their agglomeration round a partial or general centre: in this
last acceptation it is synonymous with the term attraction, and in the
former with that of repulsion." ' ' " " “ The terms eXpansion, then,
and ﬁrmament, express the matter of the heavens in a state of action,
going from or returning to its central fountain.“--Rev. W. Kirby”:
Introduction to Vol. i., Bridgett-ate?" ' ‘rtalise.
“ In the different visions of the appearance of the Deity, as the
Incessor of the chariot of the cheruhitn, it is stated, that expanded
ever their heads was a ﬁrmament like crystal or ice; that above this
ﬁrmament was a sapphire throne; that one sat on his throne, round
about whom was the appearance of a rainbow. '50 likewise in the
vision of the apostolic prophet, St. John,—A throne was set in heaven,
and one sat upon it, and there was a rainbow round about the throne,
and before the throne was a sea of glass, like unto crystal; and in the
midst of the throne, arid round about the throne, were four chernbic
animals, which proclaim the 'l'risagium. When Moses, Aaron and
his sons, and the elders of Israel, went up into Mount Sinai, and saw
the God of Israel, he stood upon what was like a pavement of sapphire
and as it were the body qfheuven in it: clearness. In all these passages,
the same idca seems to prevail with respect to the ﬁrmament,—-it is
402 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
boundary, and enables it to increase its surface and
extend its sphere, until it ﬁnally becomes compressed
into a living muscular machine!“
Matter has two kinds of heat, radiation and re
ﬂexion. The ﬁrst decreases with its distance from
the body which produced it, the second increases in
proportion. Radiation is always from the centre to
the surface of the body,-—-reﬁexion from the surface
to the centre.
It follows that there are also two species of light,
——the one radiated, the other reﬂected. Radiated
light expands with its distance from the object
which produced it, while the reﬂected light contracts
in a corresponding manner; the one travels outwards,
the other verges inwards. ' \
like ice, or the terrible crystal in one,—-a sea of glut! like crystal, or
crystallizing, emitting the splendour of crystal in the other,—like the
body qfheaom in its clearness in the third."—Kirb_y. '
“ Luminous emanations have been observed from human bodies, as
also from those of brutes. The light arising from currying a horse,
or from rubbing a cat‘s back, are known to most. Instances ofa like
kind have been known on combing a woman‘s head. Bartholin gives us
an account, which he entitles mulier splendem, of a lady in Italy, whose
body would shine whenever slightly touched with a piece of linen.
These eﬁluvia of animal bodies have many properties in common with
those produced from glass; such as their being lucid, their mapping,
and their not being excited without some degree of friction; and
are undoubtedly electrical, as a cat's back has been found strongly
electrical when stroked."--Ency. Britannica.
° “ Shell is the product of the animal‘s own system: sometimes it
is internal, sometimes external. The skeleton of articulsta is erten'or,
that of vertebrata interior to the body.“—-Dr. Roget.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 4-03
All active heat, ra
diating from the sun
in theheart-form to the
exterior orboundary of
the foetus, can go no
farther, (being at its
greatest point of dis
persion:)* it is re
ﬂected thence to the
sun in straight lines,+
those lines becoming more and more concentrated
until they meet upon its surface, which being the
universal focus becomes perfectly luminous;L
' “ Heat, if covered, reﬁccts.“-—Dr. Ritchie.
The angle of reﬂexion is always equal to the angle of incidence,
the degree of gravitation governing the quantity and quality of the
matter; thrown oﬂ'.--“ Reﬂexion and refraction form a quadrant of
90‘."-—Dr. Roget.
'l' “ Light travels in straight lines.“—-Dr. Roget.
I “ Anew method of diﬂ'using light through a theatre has been
discovered by a mechanist at Venice. By the aid of parabolic mirrors,
the light of many lamps is concentrated over an opening made in the
ceiling of the theatre, and reﬂected down on a system of plane-concave
lenses, of a foot in diameter, which occupy the aperture, and convey
into the theatre the rays of light, which arrive at them parallel, and
depart from them divergent. From the pit the lenses are alone per
ceived, which resemble a glowing furnace; and although the luminous
focus is sufﬁcient to light the whole of the theatre, it does not dazzle,
and may be viewed without fatiguing the eyes. The apparatus being
entirely concealed, accommodates itself readily to all the changes
which the representation can require. lt likewise occasions neither
smoke nor bad odours, and has none of the inconveniences of the
ancient system."
404 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Light is produced by matter being extended until
the whole becomes visible; darkness by matter being
compressed until all, saving the surface, is concealed.
The celestial ovum existed in a darkened state,
that being the quality of matter when compressed
or inactive: ﬂuidity or active life having com
menced in the ovum, light was the result. By
every subsequent movement of that ovum, it has
rejected its impure and dark materials to its surface,
and has become internally leavened, the centre being
light as day, the surface or base of the Zodiac cor
responding to the darkness of night. “And God
said, Let there be light, and there was light; and
God saw the light, that it was good; and God
divided the light from the darkness; and God
called the light day, and the darkness he called
night; and the evening and the morning were the
ﬁrst day.” Genesis, i., 3, 4, 5.
The sun being in the centre of the universal
sphere, receives every ray of light in the entire
universe at its own body as a focus, (the other
heavenly bodies, whatever their position, can be but
partially illuminated;) thus the inhabitants of the
sun must possess the united sum or amount of the
knowledge of every other sphere. There is no
night, or darkness, in the sun: “in Him there is no
darkness at all.”* Light is life, and one Being
' lfdarkness was the hiding or secret place of God, light nnlst
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 405
having passed through all the varied shades from
darkness to light, will ﬁnally be acknowledged by
all a perfect Man, creating all, preserving all, and
extending His light and mercy to inﬁnity.
All colour depends upon light and heat. The
matter travelling to the centre of every sphere,
meeting that rejectedthence atright angles, produces
every variety of colour. This fact may be illustrated
by observations on any common crystal. When
we reﬂect that our planet is constantly encased in
crystal, and that the solar matter falling from with
out, and its own individual matter rejected from
within, are perpetually cutting that crystal case at
right angles, we shall not be surprised at the varied
and beautiful shades of colour witnessed on our
earth's surface.‘ The primitive colours being seven
in number, must vary in intensity with the degree of
have been exactly the reversi-,—-His rm-rlalion. The ﬁrst was the
latent, the second the active production of the all-powerful Creator.
(See note to page ll.) '
“ Newton, in describing the laws of the projection of shadows from
opake bodies, tells us expressly, that shadow is a mere privation of
light."
‘ The rainbow is an illustration of the point in question, and indeed
Anaxagoras believed it to be produced by “a refraction of the sun's
light upon a thick dark cloud opposite to him, as a limiting-glass: for
the same reason (saith he,) appeared, chieﬂy in Pontus, two or more
snns.“-—Slanlry.
“ Mr. Green says that, in his 205th balloon ascent, ‘ as they rose
they had a beautifully distinct view of the metropolis and country
around, which continued for some time, when they pierced the clouds,
406 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
gravitation or distance from the centre of the sphere.
“It is worthy of notice that when powders of the
several primitive colours are mixed together, white
is produced, this white never being pure, but mixed
with some portion of black.”""
The apex or point of attraction in the universe
being the point of darkness, all the ascending gra—
dations thence progress from perfect black to pure
white at the opposite extrcinerf'
That light is absorbed by black objects and not
but Were still able to see the distant country. The sun. at their rising,
was obscured behind acloud, which hung down to the horizon; but as
they mounted up they graduall)v brought the great luminary within
sight, and the efl'cct was novel and curious, from the circumstance of
the part of the cloud, between the aeronauts and the sun, forming two
connected segments of a circle, the angle of which was nearly in the
centre-line of the sun‘s disc.‘ Mr. Green says he never in all his
ascents witnessed a similar phenomenon. ‘ Mounting still higher, the
full disc was visible, and continued so, long after it had set to the
inhabitants below.‘ The highest altitude Mr. Green attained as
indicated by the barometer, was 9,500 feet, or about a mile and three
quarters."
" “ The sun is perpetually pouring forth a ﬂood oflight, in variously
coloured rays, from its own body; but must the body of the sun be
necessarily violet, indigo, blue, or some other tincture discoverable by
the solar prism? or even a tincture derivable from an intermixture of
the whole? No astronomer suppoees that it. is so; no one, in reality,
supposes that, although heat and light. are continually issuing from
it, the substance of the sun is one uniform mass of heat and light in
itself.“—M. Good.
1' “l have (as [think I elsewhere mentioned,) seen in Italy, among
rarities, a large piece of crystal, about the bigness of my two lists,
whereof the pyramidal part was of a transparent green, the vert: it
being richly tinged like an emerald ; hut lhefnrthcr the colour spread
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 407
by white, is because the former are porous and have
the simple power of attraction alone. White objects
have double power: they are always smooth at the
surface, and not only attract, but repel.*
Leonardo da Vinci maintained, as the cause of the
blueness of the sky, that it was produced on this
from the vertex, the fainter and paler it grew; so that, before it came
near the base, it was quite spent, if I may so speak, leaving the
bigger part of the stone transparent, but colourless, like ordinary
crystal.“—Bo_yl¢‘s Essay on Gems.
“The middle colour in the prismatic series of any three may be
produced by a mixture of the two extremes: thus a mixture of violet
and blue gives us an indigo; indigo and green a blue; blue and yellow
a green; red and indigo a violet colour."
“ In gems that are less precious, and not so transparent, especially
in agates and opacous gems, I could easily give a multitude of
instances of the diﬂ'erently tinted parts of the same entire stone.
And I usually wear in a ring a small sardonix that was once a great
prince‘s, wherein there are three portions, one within another, the
uppermost black. the middlemost of a kind of chesnut colour, the
other of a blueI almost like a turquois; each of which portions is
exactly of a ﬁne oval ﬁgure, and each of the two uttermost is
throughout of a very uniform breadth as well as colour, and exactly
parallel to the 0ther.“-—Bo_'yle,
“ Cats-eye is the name given to a very hard stone, which approaches
more or less to a white or green, and is semi—diaphonous, with a
streak qflhrr breadth v ‘a line in the middle, which streak is much whiter
than the stone itself, and throws its light to whatever side soever this
is turned. in this respect, therefore, it resembles a cats-eye, whence it
derives its name. The Moors say that these stones approach in
hardness to thediamond. They are found in the island of Ceylon.“—
Kuox's Ceylon.
° “ Polarized rays are not indiﬁ'erent to the surface."—Dr. Roget.
“ Bodies that reﬂect all the rays appear white, those that absorb
them all seem black. * " Colour is not a property of matter, but
arises from the action of matter upon light."-—1llrs. Sonlcrvillc.
408 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
principle; that a black body viewed through a thin
white medium, creates the sensation of blue. This
is exactly the case with us, when we look up through
the earth's atmosphere at the particles thrown off
by the sun. The combustion always going on at
the surface of bodies is maintained in the higher
regions of our atmosphere, producing charcoal :
this matter viewed through the white medium in
which we move causes the appearance of blue. At
night, on the contrary, when our portion of the
earth is turned from the sun towards the iron boun
dary of the celestial fuztus, the sky presents a totally
different hue?
Sound is nothing more than the report of a long
' “M. de Saussure, when on the top of Mont Blanc, which is
elevated 5101 yards above the level of the sea, and where consequently
the air must be more rare than ours, says that the moon shone with
the brightest splendour in the midst of a sky as black as ebony; while
Jupiter, rayerl like the sun, rose from behind the mountain in the
east." Append. Vol. lxxii'., Monthly Review.
The following is the account, given by Dr. Barry, of the appearance
of the sky as seen from the top of Mont Blanc: the observations of
others were veriﬁed regarding the blackish-Mu colour of the sky, par
ticularly in and near the zenith, as seen from theselot'ty regions. The
depth of this colour is known to depend on causes which make it vary
with latitude, the elevation of the observer, the sun's altitude, the
season of the year; &e.; but the tint appeared to me to derive not a
little additional depth from the contemporaneous reception by the
eye of rays from the snow; for having been particularly struck
with its intensity, when in a valley many hundred feet below the
summit, with high walls ofsnow around, I excluded the latter from
the eye, and found the tinge of black more or less completely Io disap
pear. To make this observation, I lay on my back, and closed my
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 40‘.)
continued explosion; and the perpetual combustion
sustained, in the centre of the universe, with that
of the individual bodies contained in it, produces
what may be termed the harmony of the spheres.
This is not the result of any sudden shock, as of a
volcano, for instance, but a continued process, (at
certain intervals, regulated by the distance of one
orbit from another,) kept up in the heart or centre
of all matter, and reﬂected back from the crystal
case in which it is contained with the harmony of
a musical note ;* the chord struck and the matter
which reverberates being in unisonﬂ~ Our universe
may indeed be compared with the glass tube in
which hydrogen gas is burnt, and which thus
produces musical tones: In the words of the
eyes for some moments; then opened them on the Zenith, the snow
being shut out from view, by a cylinder formed with both hands. I
do not ﬁnd a shade, in ‘ Werner’s Nomenclature,’ corresponding with
the colour, as seen either with or without the snow; and of course
it is not easy to speak from recollection on this subject; but probably
an approach to the blackt'st tint observed, might be made by taking
from ‘pamy purple,‘ a little of its carmine red, and addinga very
little more of raven black. As viewed without the snow, China blue,
with the addition ofa very little more ofPrussinn blue, might perhaps
represent the colour. It did not insensibly pass into the pale whitish
blue of the horizon, but, what deserves remark, terminated by a well
dljined border at some ten degrees abuse it."— Dr. Barry's Narrative.
° “ Sound repeated at intervals produces a musical tone.“—
Dr. Roget.
't “ Solid metal coming in contact product-s sound."—Dr. Rogel.
I “ if a bottle containing the eﬂ‘ervescing mixture of iron and
410 THE mscovsnr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Psalmist, “ Day unto day uttereth speech, and night
unto night sheweth knowledge. There is no
speech nor language where their voice is not heard.
Their line is gone out through all the earth, and
their words to the end of the world." Psalm xix.,
dilute sulphuric acid be shut with a cork, having a straight tube of
narrow bore ﬁxed upright in it, then the hydrogen will issue in a jet,
which being kindled, forms the philosophical candle of Dr. Priestley.
if a long glass tube be held over the ﬂame, moisture will speedily
bcdew its sides, and harmonic tones will soon begin to sound." Dr. Ure.
Sound has been shown to be nothing more than the report of a long
continued explosion, and the experiment just described affords a
simple and striking illustration of the phenomenon—speech. The
matter of the human heart being kindled by contact with oxygen, the
supporter of combustion, produces a similar explosion by the jet
thrown oﬂ'in the form of breath. This jet of hydrogen is conveyed
through the windpipe into the mouth, the sides of which are bedewed
by it with moisture, and in proportion to the increased power of the
machine, directed by the individual's will, is the peculiar action of
sound produced in speech. “ The principal organ of the voice is the
larynx; for, when it is injured, the air passes through the windpipe
without yielding any sound.“-—Hoopcr‘s Medical Dictionary.
In that valuable repository of philosophical facts, 'I‘illoch‘s
Magazine, we have the following notice of the effect of hydrogen gas
on the voice. “ The Journal Britannique, published at Geneva, by
Prevost,contains the following article: ‘ Maunoir was one day amusing
himself with Paul, at Geneva, in breathing pure hydrogen air. Be
inspired it with ease, and did not perceive that it had any sensible effect
on him, either in entering his lungs, or passing out. But after he had
taken in a very large dose, he was desirous of speaking, and was
astonishingly surprised at the sound of his voice, which was become
soft, shrill, and even squeaking, so as to alarm him. Paul made the
same experiment on himself, and the same effect was produced. I do
not know whether anything similar has occurred in breathing any of
the other gases.’ “ Vol. iv., p. 2l4.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 411
2, 4.*—Language belongs always to the mackineﬁ
the root of every language is the matter itself, which
is unchangeable. All the parts or sounds in language
being united, form one perfect whole enclosed in a
circle. Thus the seven vowels may be considered
analogous to the seven spheres of our universe
enclosed within the eighth or Zodiac, and are
expressed by the line passing through its centre,
while the surface forms the consonants, or parts
united together by those vowels. The former are
sounds of harmony, the latter of discord} It is
worthy of notice, that all music is dependant upon
.seven notes. These may be compared to the seven
spheres before mentioned of our universe, each of
which produces a distinct sound, answering to its
particular distance from the stroke or impulse
received at the centre. Sound has existed from all
eternity, and will continue to exist when time shall
be no more. Thus the Scripture saith, “I am
Alpha and Omega, the ﬁrst and the last.” “The
Word was God."
All matter is puriﬁed by combustion, or what may
" “ Sound passing over ice is doubled."-—Dr. Roget.
~r “There was once but one language among the sons of men.
Upon the dispersion of mankind, this was branched out into dialects;
and those again were subdivided: all which varied every age; not
only in respect to one another, but each language differed from
itself more and more continually."—Bryant‘s illythology.
I “ The atmosphere alone, ofall matter, cannot combine its elements."
“ Sound, as well as light, admits of polarization.“-Dr. Roget.
4l2 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
be termed boiling. Boiling always takes place at the
galvanic, or upper end of matter. Combustion is
produced by the force with which two hard bodies
meet and unite: they may unite silently, or, if
powerfully compressed and in quantities, will give
off light, heat, and noise accordingly. By boiling,
whole bodies are separated into parts: the re
fuse or coarser particles are thrown to the surface
and form a scum, which continues to fall and
diminish by degrees, as the liquid becomes puriﬁed.
Thus we have, plainly, two species of matter, one
pure, condensed into a whole; the other of an inferior
quality, disunited into parts, gravitating over every
side of the vessel, until by loss of heat it is con—
densed round the sides of the cauldron, and ﬁnally
falls to thebottom or apex, where it becomesperfectly
cold: we must also have particles ﬂowing over
within this scum from the whole, or united mass,
mixing with the former matter at the bottom of the
cauldron, constituting in itself the third species. If
a new cauldron or receptacle be formed for this last,
we shall be enabled, by a little of the pure matter
thrown into the impure, to leaven the second
material in the same way. Thus is every body
puriﬁed by a little of the perfect matter being
sprinkled into it, until the whole ﬁnally becomes
leavened up into one complete mass, circulating
around its primary. The sun is daily giving 011'
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 413
a portion of its pure material to the planets or
organs, to enlighten and excite them into motion or
a boiling state, by which means they, in their turn,
purify a certain portion of the-mass, which will
eventually, become one entire living whole. Every
organ is a machine or fountain from which spring
other animal fountains.
I have hitherto refrained from saying anything
about space: it must indeed be evident that it
cannot exist Within the range of our universe.
Space signiﬁes the room which may be occupied
by the length, breadth, and thickness of any given
body?“ and the only general notion we can enter
tain of it is by the extent of this universe, which
being formed of material substance, and itself an
animal body, must occupy some certain portion of
room. That which, in the beginning, was ﬁlled by
the ovum, must have contained, prior to that period,
matter of a lighter description displaced by the or
ganization of that ovumrf' Thus it is matter itself
which ﬁlls all space: the heavy displacing the more
° “No space without matterf—Ilfr. Brande.
'l’ Hydrogen gas is the lightest ofall bodies; what however is wanted
in solidity, is amply made up for in its volatility; it expands and
bursts asunder the most powerful machine, extending itself into
space inﬁnite. (See page 152.) .
The sun's body is equal in size to the combined masses of all the
planets. What the sun has in bulk, they have in substance; the
medium which connects the several masses is equally proportioned.
5
414 THE nrscovaav or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
light, which again gravitates in its turn, to displace
the former. The space ﬁlled by the ovum, must
have been of smaller dimensions than that occupied
by the faztus which has progressed from it, and the
locomotive being, proceeding thence, will require
still more room. Matter being progressive is con
stantly extending itself and acting against space :*
every fresh formed organ, by adding to the size and
power of the whole mass, bringing it a step nearer
to the period of its third locomotive state of exis
tence. It is well known that the animal fLEtllS—
Man, is not organized by -one solitary eﬁort, but
attains its several parts in distinct succession, every
movement towards organization being governed by
the increase of strength in the heart or primary,
which becomes empowered by degrees to throw off
its materials to a greater distance: this is in every
respect analogous to the l'niversal Foetus.
There have been six movements in the organiza
tion of the celestial fabric—our Universe. The ﬁrst
of these progressive depositions planted the planet
Mercury, answering to the aorta of the heart, or
primary organ of the foetus: this might be called
the ﬁrst day of creation. The second stage, or day,
' “ No property or quality can be considered as inherently and inse
parably belonging to a substance, if the substance can be conceived as
existing without it. The only quality, without which matter is
inconceivable, is c,rtemion."—Dr. Crambie‘: Theology, p. 115.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 415
was the deposition of Venus, (answering, in the
locomotive life, to the ovarium, or receptacle of the
most pure eggs :)* _ Venus, like Mercury, being
planted on the gravitating line at a certain distance
beneath the heart. The third stage of creation was
the formation of the Earth, (corresponding, in the
locomotive life, to the uterus, in which the eggs,
before alluded to, are deposited.) Mars,+ Jupiter,
Saturn, and the Georgium Sidus, have also been
created in their respective order of distance from
the sun or centre.
Man is ﬁrst formed from particles of matter into
an egg: then from the solid egg into a triangular
cavity, the heart. The heart shoots forth its stems,
(veins and arteries,) the same as a plant or tree,
depositing at the end of every shoot a new organ:
these organs are all formed perfectly separate, and
at a distance from each other, until the whole
frame of man is complete:
The heart shape is the only one which allows an
' The uterus and ovarium, with the ovum, have not been sufﬁciently
investigated. The ovum is enveloped in the ovarium, and the ovarium
again in the uterus, and the whole is as perfect in the infant babe
newly come into the world, as it is in the full-grown female.
't The planet Mars will answer hereafter to the female placenta,
which is constantly undergoing combustion and puriﬁcation
1 “Authors have generally considered the arteries and veins as
forming each, by their union, a general cone, whose basis corresponds
to the extreme parts, and the apex to the heart.“-Bicbat.
Mr. Boyle, in his Essay on Gems, describes some Cornish diamonds
RE
416 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
overﬂow of oil or matter without waste: this has
been shown by the manner in which the matter,
ﬂowing over each side and meeting at the apex, is
united there, and formed into the several parts or
organs in turn :* these organs again producing the
having “ a pyramidal termination, made up by several resembling and
curiously ﬁgured planes, that terminated in a solid angle or apex,“ of
which these planes, being six in number, concurred in a line, and adds
that “ they seemed to have been formed separately in a ﬂuid ambient,
save at the bottom, where they were fastened to the rock, as appeared
by an opacous root, if] may so call it, which still adhered to most of
them.“
“ It might, perhaps, be expected, that an organ so precious, and of
such central and primary importance, as the heart is, should be
defended by a case. The fact is, that a membranous purse or bag,
made of strong tough materials, is provided for it; holding the heart
within its cavity; sitting loosely and easily about it; guarding its
substance, without conﬁning its motion; and containing likewise a
spoonful or two of water, just suﬂicient to keep the surface cf the
heart in a state of suppleness and moisture. How should such a loose
covering be generated by the action of the heart? Does not the in
closing of it in a sac, answering no other purpose but that inclosure,
shew the care that has been taken of its preservation ?"-— Palcy‘s
Nulurul Theuh'gy.
’ “ l. The heart (such care is taken of the centre of life) is placed
between two soft lobes ofthe lungs; is lid to the mediastinum and to the
pericardium, which pcricardium is not only itselfan exceedingly strong
membrane, but adheres ﬁrmly to the duplicature of the mediastinum,
and, by its point, to the middle tendon of the diaphragm. The heart
is also sustained in its place by the great blood-vessels which issue
from it.
“2 The lungs are tied to the sternum by the mcdiastinum, before; to
the vertebrae by the pleura, behind. It seems, indeed, to be the very
use of the mediastinum, (which is a membrane that goes straight
through the middle of the thorax, from the breast to the back,) to
keep the contents of the thorax in their places; in particular to hinder
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 417
secondary organs from themselves. By the constant
overﬂow of this matter, the heart is preserved, and
one lobe of the lungs from incommoding another, or the parts of the
lungs from pressing upon each other when we lie on one side.
“3. The liver is fastened in the body by two ligaments; the ﬁrst,
which is large and strong, comes from the covering of the diaphragm,
and penetrates the substance of the liver; the second is the umbilical
vein, which, after birth, degmeralcs into a liganwnt. The ﬁrst, which
is the principal, ﬁxes theliver in its position, whilst the body holds an
erect posture; the second prevents it from pressing upon the diaphragm
when we lie down; and both together sling or suspend the liver when
we lie upon our backs, so that it may not compress or obstruct the
ascending vena cava, to which belongs the important oﬂice ofreturning
the blood from the body to the heart.
“ 4. The bladder is tied to the navel by the urachus, transformed into
a ligament: thus, whatwa: a passage for urine to the fetus, becomes,
qfter birth, a support or stay to the bladder. The peritonaeum also keeps
the viscera from confounding themselves with, or pressing irregularly
upon, the bladder; for the kidneys and bladder are contained in a dis
tinct dupiicature of that membrane, being thereby partitioned oﬂ' from
the other contents of the abdomen.
“ 5. The kidneys are lodged in a bed of fat.
“ 6. Thcpancreus, or sweetbread, is strongly tied to the peritonzeum,
which is the great wrapping-sheet, that encloses all the bowels con
tained in the lower belly.
“ 7. The spleen also is conﬁned to its place by an adhesion to the
peritonmum and diaphragm, and by a connexion with the omentum.
It is possible, in my opinion, that the spleen may be merely a stuﬂing,
a soft cushion, to ﬁll up a vacancy or hollow, which, unless occupied,
would leave the package loose and unsteady; for, supposing that it
answers no other purpose than this, it must be vascular, and admit of
a circulation through it, in order to be kept alive, or be a part of a
living body.
“8. The omentum, epiploon, or crawl, is an apron, tucked up, or
doubling upon itself, at its lowest part. The upper edge istied to the
bottom of the stomach, to the spleen, as hath already been observed,
and to part of the duodenum. The reﬂected edge also, after forming
the doubling, comes up behind the front ﬂap, and is tied to the colon
and adjoining viscera.“—Paley‘s Natural 'I‘Iteology.
418 THE mseovnnv OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
increases in power: the carbon resulting from the
combustion, by falling, forms the lamp destined to
receive the oil of life.* As this lamp is kept con
stantly supplied with Oil, the ﬂame rises from the
carbon or wick, and forms a wall or partition
through the very centre of the heart, depositing, at
the further extreme, the pure seed for the brainz+
this partition is the fulcrum or balance between the
brain and uterus. Every vertebra is constructed
on this principle, (see the opposite diagram,) so
also are the joints}:
“ The number of elements which enter into the
composition of a vertebra, has been differently
estimated by different physiologists; but the fol
lowing are certainly entitled to that character.
* “ Ham, as the sun, was styled Ait; and Egypt. the land of Ham,
had, in consequence of it, the name of Ait, rendered by the Greeks
Asrra; none” (1'; Aryurrrog) Kat Arpuz, It'll Horaiua rat All)|1)1l'lll, mu
AETIA. One ofthe most ancient names of the Nile was Ail, or litre;
It was also a name given to the eagle, as the bird particularly sacred
to the sun: and Homer alludes to the original meaning of the word,
when he terms the eagle Are-roe aIva. Among the parts of the
human body it was appropriated to the heart, for the heart in the
body may be esteemed, what the sun is in his system, the source ol'heat
and life, affording the same animating principle. This word having
these two senses was the reason why the Egyptians made a heart over
a vase of burning incense, an emblem of their eountry.“-—Br_i/nu:’.
Ancient Mythology, vol. l. p. 22, 23.
'l' “ The spine is the great central column. One enlarged extremity
of the spine constitutes the brain.“--Dr. Rvget.
1 “The brain is very analogous to the vertebra. The Scull
appears to be formed of three vertebm."—Dr. Roget.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 419
They are represented in their relative situations in
the diagram. The ﬁrst is the
part which forms the nucleus or ‘
body (B) of the vertebra; and its
ossiﬁcation begins at the centre.
Next in importance are the two
bony plates or leaves, as they
may be called, (L,L) which pro-T V
eeed from the sides of the body,
and embrace the spinal marrow,
which is situated between them. The fourth essential
element is the spinousprocess (S), which unites the ~
two leaves, and thus completes the superior arch,
of which it may be regarded as the key-stone, for
the protection of the spinal marrow- Then come
the two transverse processes (T,T), which extend
outwards from the sides, and with which the
arches of bone, constituting the ribs (R,R), are
generally connected. These are the six parts which
may be considered as the elements that are most
essential, and most constantly present in the com
position of the vertebrae. But some other parts
may also be noticed as of very frequent occurrence ;
such are the bony plates which cover the two ﬂat
portions of the bodies of the vertebrae, forming the
surfaces immediately contiguous to the interverte
bral ligament; which surfaces, in some of the lower
orders of the vertebrata, become articular. There
_\
420 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
is frequently, also, a development of processes (F),
forming arches and spines at the lower surface of
the vertebrae, or the one opposite to that which
gives rise to the superior arches already mentioned.
This structure is very generally met with in ﬁshes,
and it is observed also in the Cetacea. The arches
thus formed enclose a large artery, which is the con
tinuation of the aorta, or the main artery running
along the back, immediately under the spinal column.
Thereare stillotherprocesses, less constantlypresent,
and variable in their shape. They form articular
surfaces for the purpose of being connected with
the surfaces of corresponding processes in the con
tiguous vertebra. Of these there are four (A, A,
A, A) belonging to each vertebra, two in front, and
two behind. These, however, should not be included
among the primary elements of the vertebrae,
because we ﬁnd them, in diﬂ'erent instances, occu—
pying different positions, and formed sometimes by
extensions of the bodies, and at other times of the
leaves. In following them through the several
tribes of animals, we observe them shifting their
places, in various ways, and not even preserving
any constancy in their number.“
Man is always made of the same materials, and
every one of his organs constructed upon the same
' llr. Roget's Animal and Vegetable Physiology, vol. i. p. 393.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or aux 4‘11
plan. Sir Charles Bell, speaking of the bones, says
they begin to form at the centre of the shaft: so do
the organs, which always precede the formation of
bone in the foetus. The only diﬁ‘erence is, that the
ﬁrst are produced by the extension or growth of the
fabric, the latter by its contraction at the period
when it ceases to grow, which always takes place
prior to its entrance into the locomotive state of
existence? I must leave to astronomers, mathe
maticians, and anatomists, the task of uniting
their efforts for the discovery of the identical
parts of the celestial machine represented by the
different portions of our universe. The several
zodiacal divisions are, no doubt, combining for
their distinct and peculiar end; and probably, every
part might be determined by anatomical reference
to the primary line of gravitation. The planetary
organs, also, may be deciphered by means of that
mighty chain of which they form the several con
necting links. The subject is of too imperative a
’ “ The septa of the brain, probably, prevent one part of that organ
from pressing with too great a weight upon another part. The pro
cesses of the dura mater divide the cavity of the skull, like so many _
inner partition-walls, and thereby conﬁne each hemisphere and lobe of
the brain to the chamber which is assigned to it, without its being
liable to rest upon, or intermix with, the neighbouring parts. The
great art and caution of packing, is to prevent one thing hurting
another. This, in the head, the chest, and the abdomen, of an animal
body, is, amongst other methods, provided for by membranous par-ti.
tions and wrappings, which keep the parts separate.“-—Paley';
Natural Theo'ugy.
422 THE nrsoovnnv or THE vrrsr. PRINCIPLE,
nature to be left to the hazard of conjecture; and
I conﬁdently anticipate that a correct estimate may
eventually be obtained, not only of the precise
ﬁgure, but of the size, age, and qualities of the
celestial living being, in whose existence is involved
the fate of myriads.
Man has progressed from the minute single drop
of water, and continued to enlarge his sphere of
existence to the present magnitude of this vast
universe :* all the planets belong to his body and
' “Plato says, ‘that matter, the inform matter, whereof every
creature is compounded, is represented by water, continual/y ﬂowing,
easily receptahle of any form.’ This being ﬁrst in the angelic mind,
angels are many times expressed by water, as in the Psalms, ‘ the
waters above the heavens praise God continually,‘ so interpreted by
Origen; and some Platonists expound the ocean (styled by Homer,
Father of Gods and Men,) this angelic mind, principle, and fountain
of all other creatures; Gemistius, Neptune; as commander of all
waters, of all minds,angelical and human. ‘ This is that living foun
tain, whereof he that drinketh shall never thirst; these are the waters
whereon (David saith) God hath founded the world.‘ “—Stanlry.
“It was from Egypt likewise that both Homer and 'l'halcs were
taught, that ‘water was the ﬁrst principle of all things, and the
cause of generation.‘ For what, in reality, is the poet‘s Ocean, but the
Egyptian Osiris, or his Tethys, but their Isis? the name itII-lf plainly
importing some power, which is supposed to nourish and cherish all
nun/re. And, indeed, many of those words which are made use of by
the Greeks to express generation, or a production into being, are
derived from a root or original, which signiﬁes, in their language,
water or moisture. Nay, Dionysius or Bacchus himself, who is the
same deity as Osiris, is called by them Hyes, (or the Wetter,) signi
fying thereby his being lord oft/1e humid nnlure. Nor, must it be
omitted, that Hellanicus, in his history, instead of Osiris, all
along makes use of the term Usiris, a name derived from, and exeel'
lently well according with the supposition ofhis being the principle of
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 423
are growing to a deﬁnite size; which attained, they
will contract the ﬂuid medium in which they now
move, and ﬁnally, being united to the sun or primary,
become one grand celestial whole. This universe,
its atmosphere, sun, moon, and stars, with every
other phenomenon, are the production of man him
self. All,—all is man, man constantly undergoing
decomposition, and as constantly remodelled with
the same materials. By the decomposition of the
external boundary or atmosphere, the internal
organs are formed and sustained, and the heart
enabled to enlarge its sphere of action. The internal
machine is equally important to the preservation of
the external: each part of an animal body being
essential to the existence of the whole mass. In
moisture: and this name, says he, ‘ I heard given him by the priests
themselves.‘ "—Pluturch‘: Treatise of Isis and Osiris.
The following is the prayer of one of the Hindu priests while sip
ping water, “ Waterl thou dostpenetrate all beings; thou dost reach
the deep recesses of the mountains; thou art the mouth (ft/re univu'se;
thou art sacriﬁce; thou art the mystic word casha; thou art light,
taste, and the immortal ﬂuid."-—Asiatic Rwarches.
It is not a little remarkable, that walcr should have been such an
object of veneration in the opinion of ancient, as well as modern
nations. That the Hindoos should have worshipped it with various
rites in their river Ganges, the Americans as the “ Father of Rivers,“
the Mississippi; that water should have been essential in the rites of the
Jews, and that the catholics should have used it with the sign of the
Cross; that its use should, in fact, have been enjoined by our Lord, as
the sign of "generation and purity, and that it has been accordingly
employed by the Christians in the ceremony ofhaptism. Finally, that
water should be the emblem of the Holy Spirit, the Father himself.
424 THE mscovnnv OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
the words of Cuvier, “That which is true of the
least animal, that which is true of the most perfect
animal, Man, of the little world, as the ancient
philosophers called it, is necessarily not the less
true of the great world, the globe and all its
inhabitants. The beings which compose it, and
which people it, contribute to its existence; they
are necessary to each other, and to the whole; they
have been so since this existence subsisted; they
will be so as long as it shall subsist. This is like
an individual: all its parts act on each other. We
can imagine other worlds more or less rich, more or
less peopled, the preservation of which rests on
other means; but we cannot conceive the present
world deprived of one or several of the classes of
beings which inhabit it, any more than the body of
man deprived of one or several of its systems of
organs.”
It would appear, that all numbers have origi
nated from the simple framework, or scaffolding, of
the universal machine. (See the diagram.) The
arithmetical characters at present in
i fuse are all derived from the circle,
a being simply and easily constructed
out of the diameter and circumfe
rence. The cipher 0 is, I conceive,
most properly the commencement of the scale: the
primitive egg, as it were, which contains the other
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 425
nine characters. They may be constructcd,l think,
without much ingenuity, as follows.
OIZZ‘l—5‘437X 9
Whatever form matter may assume, it acquires
its power, grandeur, and sublimity by the unity of
its particles)“
The diamond cruciﬁx (see the diagram, page 73)
may be considered a perfect emblem of our uni
verse, being impressed upon it in the lines of
gravitation, and of the cquinoxes: the cross,
forming the lines of expansion, has before been
shown to be the scale and compass of matter
(See note, page 22). Speaking of the Jewish alle
gories, Colonel Vallencey says: “And hence the
Sephiroth tree, or tree of numbers of the Cabalis
tical Jews; and this tree contained ten names,
viz. corona, sapientia, prudentia, clementia, gra
vitas, ornatas, triumphus confessio laudis, fun
damentum, regnum. The number ten seems to
have been ﬁxed on, because, as relating to nume
rals, ten was called perfection, as from thence
all nations began to count anew. For this reason,
the Egyptians expressed the number ten by the
word mid, that is, perfection; and the Irish call it
deag, a word of like meaning; and for this reason,
the Chaldeans formed the word Jod, or number ten,
' Hydrogen is the body always taken as unity or one.
426 THE orscovnnv or ran VITAL PRINCIPLE,
by an equilateral triangle, A, which was the symbol
of perfection with the Egyptians. The Egyptians
doubled the triangle, thus X, and then it became a
cross of St. Andrew, or the letter X or ten, that is,
perfection, being the perfect number, or the number
of ﬁngers on both hands; hence it stood for ten
with the Egyptians, Chinese, thnicians, Romans,
&c., and is so used with us at this day. The Mex
icans also use the same ﬁgure in their secular calen
dars. The Tartars call it lama, from the Scythian
lamk, a band, synonymous to the jod of the Chal
deans; and thus it became the name qf a cross, and
of the High Priest, with the Tartars; and, with the
Irish, luam signiﬁes the head of the church, an
abbot, &c. “Ce qu’il y a dc remarkable c’est que
le grand prétre des Tartares, port le nom de lama,
qui en langue Tartare signiﬁe la croirv; et les
Bogdoi qui conquirent la Chine en 1644, et qui sont
soilmis au dalae-Zama dans les choses de la religion,
ont toujours des croia: sur eux, qu'ils appellent
aussi lamas.”
“ From this X, all nations begin a new reckoning=
because it is the number of ﬁngers on both bands.
which were the original instruments of numbering;
hence, 1' (id) iod, in Hebrew, is the hand and the
number ten, as is lamb with the Tartars.”
Again Vallencey says, “ And here, I think, we may
trace the origin of the Idwi Daclyli or Cm‘eles ;
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 427
for Dactylus is only a Greek translation of the
Phrgniciﬂn 1* (id) iod, as lam/z, in Scythian, whence
the lama of the Tartars.“
It is not surprising, that as the universe is bounded
by 36 decans=‘l60°, and contains within those
deeans, one decan or cross, (the measure of the
whole,) as well as of the previous numbers, the scale
should have ended with that perfect cross. Al
though it is not my intention to involve myself
in the present work in any topics of religious
discussion, it seems unavoidable to notice here the
extraordinary fact, that this perfect sign, the cross,
the object of veneration from the earliest period,
the idol alike of Jew, Papist, Inﬁdel, and Christian,
should be associated with the words Lamb, iod,
or God, High Priest, and Head of the Church, and
be worshipped under these various names in divers
countries: being not only impressed on innumerable
coins and monuments, but used to denote the
planetary and chemical terms, and even believed
to be expressed upon the universe itself; for
Justin says, that “Plato, in his Timmus, philoso
phising ab0ut the Son of God, reports that he was
expressed upon the universe in the form of the
letter X." And again, that “the second power
of the Supreme God was ﬁgured on the universe,
in the shape of a cross.”
° Higgins‘s Celtic Druids.
5
428 THE mscovsmr or Tris VITAL PRINCIPLE,
That the human being, contained in the sphere of
the universe, is of celestial origin, there can be no
doubt; and it is equally certain that this being is of
a perfect nature: but, whether the Saviour be thus
the identiﬁcation of God with his people is a point
I shall leave to the consideration of the impartial
reader; the sun has certainly been worshipped
under similar ideas, and by it the whole universal
fabric has been formed and preserved.
The increasing size of the vast machine upon
which so much depends, claims our next enquiry.
That which grows as a whole, must do so at the
same time in all its parts; I shall therefore consider
the progressive growth of the whole fabric, as
developed at one of its primary organs, which
comes under our powers of observation, viz. the
planet earth.
The number of zodiacal degrees is 360, and our
earth, in traversing its orbit, daily occupies one of
these degrees, passing through all the 360 in
succession in its annual progress around the sun.
The sun is daily throwing oﬁ' matter in the heart
form, and matter is daily returned from the Zodiac,
in straight lines, back to the sun or centre. There
are, therefore, two opposing currents: that of the
sun, striving to bulge or extend the terrestrial
machine; that of the Zodiac or boundary, to con—
tract it in a corresponding degree.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 429
The mode of growth ofthe celestial machine being
determined, we are brought to reﬂect upon another
veryimportant point,'viz. its duration. Each particu
lar stage of existence has its prescribed limits, and
in process of time, the universal fmtus must attain
its third or locomotive state. Mr. Whewell observes,
“It is no way unlikely that the whole duration of the
solar system should be a period immeasurably great
in our eyes, though demonstrably ﬁnite.* Such
calculations depend, in some degree, on our relation
to the vast aggregate of the works of our Creator.
N0 one, who has dwelt on the thought of a universal
Creator and Preserver, will be surprised to ﬁnd the
conviction forced upon the mind of every new train
of speculation, that, viewed in reference to Him,
our space is a point, our time a moment, our mil
lions a handful, our permanence aquick decay/3’1~
The progressive development of the foatal organs
has already been explained, with the reciprocal
* “Duration is but, as it were, the length of one straight line,
extended in inﬁnitum, not capable ofmultiplieity, variation, or ﬁgure;
but is one common measure of all existence whatsoever, wherein all
things, whilst they exist, equally partake For this present moment
is common to all things that are now in being, and equally compre
hends that part of their existence, as much as if they were all but one
single being ; and we may truly say, they all existin the same moment
of time."—Lockc.
1' “Could the mind, as in number, come to so small a part of
extension or duration, as excluded divisibility, that would be, as it
were, the indivisible unit, or idea; by repetition of which it would
make its more enlarged ideas of extension and durationﬂ‘—Locke.
430 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
connexion between them and their primary, the
heart, by means of the elastic ﬂuid medium. This
ﬂuid, similar to that which circulates in every
animal foztus, is of a white transparent nature, and
increases in quantity during the progression of the
animal to its full growth; but when the organs have
attained the completion of their structure, and the
machine is about to enter upon its third locomotive
state of existence, :1 change takes place in the uni
versal atmosphere, and contraction begins through
out the entire fmtus. By the clouding or thickening
of the Zodiac, or external boundary, theﬂuid medium
becomes also thickened and begins to stagnate, and
this process increases in intensity until the change
is completed}
By the contraction of the ﬂuid medium, a retard
ation in the annual revolution of the planets is
occasioned; and this may account for the loss of
eleven days in the computation of time. A writer
of the present day observes, “It may be millions of
millions of years, before the earth’s retardation may
perceptibly affect the apparent motion of the sun;
but still the day will come (if the same Providence
which formed the system, should permit it to con
tinue so long,) when this cause will entirely change
the length of our year, and the course of our seasons,
and ﬁnally stop the earth’s motion round the sun
" See pages 352—388
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 431
altogether. The smallness of the resistance, how
ever small we choose to suppose it, does not allow
us to escape this certainty. There is a resisting
medium; and therefore the movements of the solar
system cannot go on for ever. The moment such
aﬂuid is ascertained to exist, the eternity of the
movements qf the planets becomes as impossible
as a perpetual motion on the earth.“
“ Death! great proprietor of all! ‘tis thine
'l‘o tread out empire, and to quench the stars;
The Sun himself by thy permission shines,
And, one day, thou shalt pluck him from his sphere!“
Young.
Whether it is in the heavens above, the internal
° “Mr. Mackintosh, in his concluding Lecture on the Electrical
Theory of the Universe (delivered on the 7th of November, 1836,)
remarked, that if the earth be gradually approaching the sun, it was
natural to conclude, that the length of the year was becoming less in
a relative proportion. Accordingly, we ﬁnd that the Chinese, lndians,
Chaldeans, Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans, however they differed on
other points, all agreed in giving to the year a value greater than that
which was known to be the true value at the present day. Now, the
great object of the ancient astronomers being the calculation of
eclipses, unless they had aknowledge of the true time, how could they
have predicted the recurrence of an eclipse with any certainty? But
the Sothian period of the Egyptians put the matter beyond dispute.
The Egyptians had more than one calendar, in one of which the year
consisted of 365 days ; they had no leap-years, but the supernumerary
hours and minutes were allowed to accumulate until they formed a
whole year, which was added to the amount, and this they called a
Sothiac period, which originally consisted of 1,461 years, at the
present day it would require 1,506 years to complete a Sothiac period;
the diﬂ'erence being forty-ﬁve years. And were we to suppose that
the Egyptians (the most eminent astronomers that the world ever
FF
432 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
cavity of the heart or sun, or the ﬂuid medium
surrounding it, all, all is undergoing one continued
change, occasioned by compression. The central
mass, the sun, is becoming gradually converted into
a solid carbonated incorruptible substance: witness
the increased number of black spots visible on its
surface during even the last few years: (the sun's
body being diamond, its combustion pro- €\\
duces the charcoal spots alluded to.)* The .
annexed diagram affords a representation
of one that occurred in the year 1789, the
produced) could not bring their Sothiac period nearer than within
forty-ﬁve years ofthe true time l—we c0uld not come to this conclusion,
-— and yet with this very imperfect time, these astronomers could cal
culate and predict eclipses! To suppose so was an absurdity; it was
impossible to calculate an eclipse unless the true time were knOWn.
“It was also found, that the apparent diameter of the sun was
greater at the present day than it was found to be by the ancient
Greek astronomers ; and this also agreed with the assumption of the
earth‘s approach to the centre. We were too apt to consider that
these dilierenees arose from the imperfect modes of observation pur
sued by the ancients, without considering that it was not only possible,
but natural, that there should be an actual difference; seeing there is
nothing stationary in nature, and that both the ancient and modern
observations might be correct."-—Mechanic's Magazine.
“ The earth's motion is slower now than when St. Paul's was
built.“——Dr. Ritchie. _
‘ “The combustion of the diamond is effected at three different
temperaturel. At the ﬁrst and least elevated temperature, the
diamond assumes a gray and black colour; this is the ﬁrst degree of
oxydation; it is the state of the plumbago and of the antracolite, or
incombustible pit-coal.
“At the second degree of temperature there is a new, slow, and
i r 7 i i___. i 7 Q__ “A; “MnrgAgj-‘d e _!
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 433
nature of which was very remarkable! The heart
or sun, no longer receiving a fresh supply of fuel
successive combination of oxygen; it then constitutes the habitual
state of our charcoal.
“ Supposing, therefore, we could operate with sufﬁcient precision
to take from the surface of the diamond the black matter in propor
tion as it formed, during our process for burning it, we should un
doubtedly convert the whole diamond into charcoal.
“ At the third degree ofcombustion the diamond is wholly converted
into carbonic acid gas, as we have shown before.
“ Guyton Morveau applied the solar heat, by means of a great lens,
to a diamond placed in a china cup, and surrounded by a proper
apparatus, with a confined quantity of oxygen gas.
“ In one experiment the diamond exhibited, ﬁrst, a black point at
the angle directly struck by the solar rays; after this, it soon became
completely black, and of a coally appearance; the instant afterwards,
brilliant and as it were boiling points were distinctly perceived on the
black ground. It now began to diminish in size, and in a short time,
no more than one-fourth was remaining."
' The diagram is taken from the Encyclopzrdia Britannica.
The following paragraph is from the Reading rifercury, 1835:
“ During the past week, a number of spots have been observed on the
sun‘s disc, amounting to sixteen or seventeen, and a few of them of
extraordinary magnitude. A double range of them, on the eastern
edge, presented a very singular spectacle. There has not been a
similar appearance since the year 1830.“
The subjoincd note was made by Sir William Herschel, at Feld
hriusen, near Wynberg, at the Cape of Good Hope, during the spring
equinox of the present year :—“ The sun at present is, and has long
been, aifected with a display of spots, extraordinary both in point of
number and magnitude, and in every point' of view extremely remark
able. They do not, however, appear to have all'ected its emission of
heat; at least I perceive no marked excess or defect of radiation, as
indicated by the actinomcter this year, compared with corresponding
seasons of 1834, 1835, and 1836. This instrument puts all such en
quiries completely within our power."- Morning Chronicle, Saturday,
October 7, 1837.
An ingenious individual in Providence in America, has very recently
434 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
from the amnios or ftetal atmosphere, becomes lan
guid and unable to furnish, in its turn, the necessary
supply to the organs within its sphere.‘
It has before been shown, that while the top of a
succeeded, by means ofa seven-feet telescope, constructed by himself
on a new principle, in bringing the entire image of the sun into a
darkened room upon a white screen to the size of eightfeet in diameter.
He writes us that his astonishment was great when he perceived that
every spot now upon the face of the sun, nine in number, was
distinctly transferred to the screen. and was so plain that he could
see every movement of them in the various and sudden changes. He
says he could plainly discover that those spots were immense bodies
of smoke, apparently issuing from volcanoes; and as they sewn
occasionally forced up from the craters, now forming dense clouds,
and now dispersing, he considers those phenomena as accounting for
the rapid changes of those spots. The escape of such a vast quan
tity of gas from the interior of the body of the sun would, he observes,
as it surrounds that luminary, produce that bright and (hauling
appearance which is the atmosphere of the sun. This theory may not
accord with the opinions of others who have made observations on
the subject; but the writer, at any rate, entertains the strongest
belief of its truth. With the same instrument, which is but just
ﬁnished, he has also examined the moon, and states his conviction
that the body is covered with perpetual snow and ice, the dark spots
discoverable on its surface being frozen seas, and the lighter spaces
land covered with snow. Those circular places which have a rising
cone in the centre, he thinks, are extinguished volcanoes, as no clouds
are perceptible over the moon's face; which, being covered with snow
and ice, accounts, as he imagines, for its clear appearance, and for the
absence of an atmosphere. This vast accumulation of frost and snow
upon the moon‘s surface may be explained, the writer conjectures, by
the nature of the moon's revolutions."
Ansximenes believed the sun to be “ ﬂat as a plate, of ﬁery sub
stance,“ and that it “is eclipsed when the mouth out ofwhich isszn-th
its heat, is closed."
“‘ “ In the course of the incubation, the yolk becomes constantly
thinner and paler by the admixture of the inner white. At the same
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 435
kettle of water is kept boiling by a source of heat
applied beneath, the bottom remains perfectly cold;
but cause that boiling to cease by abstracting from
the water the source of heat or ﬁre beneath, and
the bottom of the kettle will gradually become
heated till the hand can no longer be applied to it.‘
This is a most simple illustration of the present
subject. Hitherto the sun, by combustion, has
thrown 05 to the apex of the universe, or North
Pole, a continued supply of crystalline matter; but
when compression of the heart begins, as just
described, by a. want of fresh fuel there, the irri
tation is conveyed to the apex, and in succession to
all the internal organsxf Thus, a mutual compression
of every part of the foetus must necessarily ensue.
time, innumerable fringe-like vessels, with ﬂocculent extremities of a
most singular and unexampled structure, form on the inner surface of
the yolk-bag, opposite to the yellow ramiﬁed marks above mentioned,
and hang into the yolk. There can be no doubt that they have the
oﬂice of absorbing the yolk, and conveying it into the veins of the
yolk-bag, where it is assimilated to the blood, and applied to the
nutrition of the chick. Thus, in the chicken which has just quitted
the egg, there is only a remainder of the yolk and its bag to be dis
covered in the abdomen. These are completely removed in the fol
lowing weeks, so that the only remaining trace is a kind of cicatrix
on the surface of the intestine." —Blumenbach's Comparative Anatomy
' It is necessary to heat ﬂuids from beneath: render the warm
liquid lighter than the cold, and it rises in it.
1- “ But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in
the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the
elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also, and the works
that are therein shall be burned up."—2 Peter, iii., ll).
436 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
The brain being the extreme point of the line, re
ceives at its centre the united compression or weight
of the whole fabric, and thus the vital spark is
elicited: repulsion, or a rejection downwards to the
apex, of the superabundant matter follows, until a
complete retroversion of the line is brought about,*
the brain becoming converted into the electric, or
freezing, and the apex into the galvanic, or boiling,
state; the oppression is thus once more returned
to the heart; which becomes so powerfully con
densed, that it draws all its varied cords, (the
arteries and veins,) into one contracted sphere,
(see the diagram ;) and thus, every organ being
ﬁxed in its destined position, the whole mess
coalesccs to form one perfect machinesi~ The
head, the broad and heavier end, falls or gravi—
tates, drawing after it the lower portion of the
body, and the third life or locomotive state com
mences. The ﬂuid medium now attains the red
colour of blood by the entrance of the external
atmosphere through the mouth to the heart of the
' “ It appears, from modern experiments, that the mariner’s needle
has lost its power of attraction. The needle, it would seem, acts from
induction; and a good efﬁcient needle to-day may lose much of its
power to morrow, and in a short time become perfectly useless."
+ “ From the vacant spaces in some parts of the heavens, and the
correspondent clusters ofstars in their vicinity, Mr. Herschel concludes
that the nebula: or constellations of ﬁxed stars are approaching car
other, and must ﬁnally coalesce in one mass."--Pliil. Tram. vol.
lxxv.
-.______,,_
@97w 'Zém/h/wva/uu'or [a (A:
6
’%§*‘a
91“ " i F G
Qs-é * [1/
b
A. The Heart. or Sun.
B. The North Pole, or freezing point.
'L‘ c. The Organs, or Planets.
D. The Brain, or boiling point.
e. The Veins, or cordiform linu.
[F- The Aﬂories, or straight lines returned to the heart.
G. The extent of the Universal Atmosphere.
.,.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 437
foetus, (every creature comes into the world with its
mouth open :) the heart begins again to pulsate,
and a new circulation thus commencing,* the organs
of the celestial being are appropriated, for the ﬁrst
time, to their destined functions.
“ Roll on, ye Stars! exult in youthful prime,
Mark with bright curves the printless steps of Time;
Near and more near your beamy cars approach,
And lessening orbs on lessening orbs encroach ;—
Flowers of the sky! ye too to age must yield,
Frail as your silken sisters of the ﬁeld!
Star after star, from heaven‘s high arch shall rush,
Suns sink on suns, and systems systems crush,
Headlong, extinct, to one dark centre fall,
And death and night and chaos mingle all!
‘Till o‘er the wreck, emerging from the stormﬂ‘
immortal Nature lifts her changeful form,
Mounts from her funeral pyre on wings of ﬂame,
And soars and shines, another and the same.“
Dr. Darwin.
By uniting the study of physiology with that of
astronomy, now that the Vital Principle is made
known, we shall be enabled to determine the rest
by natural consequences; life being one and the
' A double circulation now for the ﬁrst time takes place. The fetus
is a white-blooded animal; it is the oxygen of the atmosphere that
gives colour to the blood on the entrance of the child into the
world.
1* “ The story of the phmnix rising from its own ashes with a
twinkling star upon its head, seems to have been an ancient hier0<
glyphic emblem of the destruction and resuscitation of all things.“—
Dr. Darwin.
438 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
same thing, on the most extensive as on the minutest
scale. “It is in the constitution of nature that the
Deity is revealed ;"* and that the Almighty Creator
had some design in planting the ovum or seed of
this universe, is as evident to me as that a ship
builder, when he builds his ship, intends it to sail
upon the ocean, or a watch-maker, in making a
watch, intends it to count time. The most profound
and secret, yet simple, mechanism has been em~
ployed in its construction, and we are warranted in
the supposition that some deﬁnite purpose is to be
accomplished by the machine: that the Creator, in
impressing the primary seed with the law of gravi
tation, foresaw that it would pass through the foetal,
and ﬁnally attain the locomotive state of existence;
and that the life thus bestowed was ordained for
the wisest and best of purposes-{- The perfec
tion of this life, what mind shall conceive, or
what tongue shall tell? What thought shall calcu
late the immensity of power, the multitude of advan
tages to be concentrated in such a being? In rela
' Dr. Crombie.
't “The machinist, when he completes his plan, foresees the
effect of every wheel, every pinion, every joint, every spring of his
machine, and can trace, in his own mind, every movement from the
commencement of the series to the ultimate eﬂ'ect. And can we
suppose, that the Deity constructed our system with less foresight
than a human artisan would exercise? Or can we believe, that any
event, however minute, can take place in His creation, the causes and
consequences ofwhich His prencience did not embrace ?"—-Dr- Crombie.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 439
tion to so vast a machine, how does man shrink into a
point, a mere atom, smaller than the smallest of the
small grains to be found on the sea-shore. “When
I consider the heavens, the work of thy hands, and
the moon which thou hast made, Lord, what is man
that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man
that thou regardest him P” That his very hairs
should be numbered in Thy sight? The being
of man, as a part of the vast fabric qf the uni
verse, is however wound up in its destiny, and the
Scriptures reveal ample evidence of the future con
dition of both?“ They assert that man shall live
hereafter a pure and perfect life, and that he shall
possess “an habitation, not made with hands, eternal
in the heavens.‘_’ Thither then, to that word of
God which conﬁrms and explains His works, we
refer our reader for the future history of the celes
tial living being which is now progressing with us
" “Nature frequently lodges under the same roof the animal
and vegetable life, and unites the destiny of the one to that of the
other. We see them bursting together from the same shell, blowing,
expanding, propagating, dying, in a similar progression. At the
same instant of time they present, if I may be allowed the expression,
the same metamorphoses. While the plant is unfolding in succession
its germs, its buds, its ﬂowers, its fruits, the insect is displaying
successively on one ofits leaves, the egg, the worm, the nymph, the
butterﬂy, which contains, like its parents, the seeds of its posterity,
with those of the plant which nourished it. It is thus that Fable, far
less marvellous than Nature, inclosed the life of the Dryad within the
bark of the oak.“—St. Pierre.
440 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
to that pure and perfect state: he will there
learn that
“ This is the bud ofbeing, the dim dawn,
The twilight of our day, the vestibule.
Life's theatre as yet is shut, and Death,
Strong Death, alone can heave the massy bar,
This gross impediment of clay remove,
And make us, embryos of existence, free.
From real life but little more remote
ls He, not yet a candidate for light,
The future embryo, slumbering in His Sire.
Embryos we must be, till we burst the shell,
Yon ambient azure shell, and spring to life,
The life of Gods (oh, transport!) and of Man."
Young.
e92; ?énz/ucmc mu/ayahy If; (gﬂaczye.
/ n
‘
\J
. The Heart, or Sun.
The North Pole, now mnvertell into the boiling point.
The Planets, changed in shape by compression.
. The Brain. now become the point of freezing.
The Veins: the lower, and not as formerly the upper portion
exhibiting the corrlil'orm appearance.
The Arteries.
. The Amnioa, or Universal Atmosphere, changing its form.
[ Tufan page BEL
$695!:
w
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 441
CHAPTER IX.
MAN.
(Concluded)
“ Canst thou by searching ﬁnd out God?"
Jon, xi., 7.
ANIMAL organization progresses from the most
minute to a certain deﬁnite structure, part after
part being formed and chained to its predecessor,
until seven distinct organs are produced, which,
when united together, constitute that most perfect
of all animal striictures—MAN.*
In the sixth and eighth chapters of this work,
the plan upon which the machine is constructed
has been explained, with the change from the
fcetal to the locomotive state of existence: at this
point I resume my narrative of the progressive life
of Man.
' it is quite evident that the animal machine requires to be made
ere it can be put in motion.
442 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
As soon as the fmtus is brought into contact with
the atmospheric air, the lungs become inﬂated and
inﬂamed, and the oxygen is immediately communi
cated to the expiring heart. Thus is ﬂuidity
restored to the machine, and distributed to the most
distant parts of the system, giving motion to
every organ and unconscious sensation to the
whole fabric. The vessels, which in the fmtal
life were merely appropriately distended, have
now a new function to perform: they become
irritated by fresh matter, and their elastic motion
commences!“ All matter sent from the heart
(which is kept in a constant state of combustion,)
is conveyed by the arteries to the extremities of the
body; while travelling, it loses by degrees its elas
ticity or ﬂuid heat, and, when deposited at the
extremities, is apparently a lifeless inorganic masssf
Here, however, we have the most wonderful mark
° “The nerves are irritated by oxygen, but not by other gases.“—
Dr. Roget.
“The only sense which belongs to all animals, and which exercises
its inﬂuence over nearly the whole of the surface of the body of each.
is the touch.“—Cuuier.
Majendie, in his thirteenth Lecture on the Nervous System:
enquires, “ Are all the external mouths of the nerves possessed of the
same sensibility, or has each nerve its peculiar species of sensibility?"
'l' “ M. Barruel, Director of Chemical Experiments to the Faculty of
Medicine, after having made researches on the existence of iron in the
blood, is of opinion that he could extract from the blood of a corpse
iron enough to strike a medal as large as a 40fr. piece. This would
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 443
of wisdom presented to us: here it is, at the extre
mities of the body, that the organs are brought
into use and made subservient to their primary;
here, that fresh matter is deposited from external
nature, to be communicated by the different organs
of sensation to the minute veins, and by them
transmitted to the heart.
The brain has been shown to originate from the
heart or primary organ, (see pages 244, 246;)
prior to the birth of the animal, it continues to
derive its nutriment from the same source, in
creasing in size until, by the pressure ofmatter to its
centre of attraction, friction takes place, when the
lighter portions rise to the surface, and the heavier
descend, forming a membrane or bag to enclose the
brain, which is the heart or primary organ of the
superior or celestial life of the machine,"—MAN.
be a curious and substantial means of preserving the remains and
perpetuating the memory of an illustrious person or friend."
' “ The brain has been examined by Vauqueliu and John; and, in
this diﬂicult analysis, a surprising coincidence between their results
may be observed. it is a curious fact, that in the brain of man
no less than 80 per cent. of the weight is water. According to
the analysis of Vauquelin, 100 parts of human brain consist of
80 parts of water; 4.53 of white fat; 0.7 of red fat; 1.12 of
osmazome; 'l of albumen, 1.5 of phosphorus, united with the fats;
5.15 of sulphur, biphosphate of potash, phosphates of lime and mag
nesia, and other salts. Ofsuch materials is the thinking organ of
man composed. The spinal marrow and nerves are similarly consti
tuted. The ratio of water in the brain of the calfis also 80 per cent."
—Cabinet Cyclop¢dia
444 THE mscovnnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
The ﬂower of every plant forms the primitive seed
of animal life. The brain or ﬂower of the animal
fabric lays the foundation-stone for the succeeding
species, or more perfect generation. Thus has the
brain, like every animal, its three successive stages
of existence, the oval, the foetal, and the locomotive ;
these not being coexistant with the three lives of
the inferior machine, but succeeding them in the
following order:
Inferior machine.-— Oval. Fcetal. Locomotive:
Superior machine.-- . . . Oval. Fretal. Locomotive.
The ovum of the brain is produced by the change
of the inferior machine to its fmtal state: the
foetus of the brain, commencing with the change
of the machine to its locomotive state, is perfected
only when the latter ceases to exist. When the
foetus of the inferior machine has attained a certain
dimension, the brain commences its own organiza
tion by appropriating to itself the ﬂuids hitherto
received by the latter alone: depositing certain
organs, it forms layer after layer of thick gela
tinous muscle or scull, sufﬁcient to protect its
heart or primary, in coming into the world."‘ In
the locomotive life of man, the human brain thinks,
° “ The brain ofa new-born infant weighs about ten ounces; that
of an adult, generally three pounds and a half, apothccaries‘ weight,
frequently a little less. But if the mind of an adult has been long
devoted to thought, il'hc has been engaged in constant study, his brain
is usually increased beyond this weight. The brain of Byron, for
5
OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 445
feels, sees, and moves; it is therefore an animal
body of a superior order in its second or foetal
stage of existence. It has light, heat, and motion,
with every other property of matter in its ﬂuid or
active state. When the machine, or terrestrial Man,
enters upon its new or locomotive existence, the
brain and organs commence their active state of
organization, which is carried on from that period,
until what is called death takes place, when the supe
ri or fabric becomes perfected by the separation from
its outward envelope or case, which last gravitates to
the earth again, and forms eventually a rock or
base, for the perfect or celestial man to move upon:
the inferior life being intended for rearing the
structure of the earth, the superior for man’s own
personal identity.
“ Shall we this moment gaze on God in man?
The next, lose man for ever in the. dust?“-— Young.
Man has two lives at the same time!!! The
one internal, the other external, the last being a
mere machine or case for the protection of the
former to its third or locomotive state of exist
instance, is said to have weighed four pounds and a half, and that of
the illustrious Cuvier four pounds thirteen ounces and a half. The
size of this organ increases from the time of birth till manhood,
remains stationary from this period until old age, and then diminishes
in bulk and weight. The relative size ofits diﬂ'erent portions con
stantly varies during several of the ﬁrst years of life, and it is not
until about the seventh year that all its parts are formed.“—Briglmm
on Mental Cultivation.
446 THE mscovsnr on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
ence.* The animal thus protected being the sen
sorium, which, incased within the machine, grows
with its growth, and ﬁnally attains its perfection,
while the latter is gradually on the declinerf'
' “ The body is constantly undergoing change in all its parts.
Probably no person at the age of twenty has one single particle in
any part of his body which he had at ten; and still less does any
portion of the body he was born with continue to exist in or with
him. All that he before had has now entered into new combinations,
forming parts of other men, or of animals, or of vegetable or mineral
substances, exactly as the body he now has will afterwards he re
solved into new combinations after his death. Yet the mind con
tinues one and the same, ‘without change or shadow of turning.‘ None
of its parts can be resolved; for it is one and single, and it remains
unchanged by the changes of the body."--Lord Brougham.
1' “It is certain that the strength of the body, its agility, its
patience offatigue, indeed all its qualities, decline from thirty at the
latest; and yet the mind is improving rapidly from thirty to ﬁfty;
suﬂ‘ers little or no decline before sixty; and therefore is better when
the body is enfeebled,at the age of ﬁfty-eight or ﬁfty-nine, than it was
in the some of the corporeal faculties thirty years before. It is
equally certain, that while the body is rapidly' decaying, between
sixty or sixty-three and seventy, the mind hardly suﬂ'ers any loss of
strength in the generality of men; that men continue to seventy-ﬁve
or sovcnty-six in the possession of all their mental powers, while few
can then boast of more than the remains of physical strength; and.
instances are not wanting ofpersons who, between eighty and ninety,
oreven older, when the body can hardly be said to live, possess every
faculty ofthe mind unimpaired. We are authorized to conclude, from
these facts, that unless some unusual or violent accident interferes,
such as a serious illness or a fatal contusion, the ordinary course of
life presents the mind and the body running courses widely diﬂ’crent,
and in great part of the time in opposite directions; and this alfords
strong proof, both that the mind is independent of the body, and that
its destruction in the period of its entire vigour is contrary to the
analogy of nature."— Lord Brougham.
\_- » AA. n: 7 — 4 _ gas-Q4 - u—l-J
OR, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 447
The inferior machine grows downwards in the
locomotive life of man, while the fmtus of the
superior life is growing upwards. (See pages
198 and 272.)
The eye is the most perfect organ of the human
body. The lens is composed of pure crystalline
diamond“ kept in a continual state of combustion
by the rays of light constantly falling upon its
surface in direct lines. By this means a ﬂuid
medium is thrown off, which falls into the cor
nea, and from the cornea the rays diverge into the
optic nerve, by which they are conveyed to, and
concentrated in, the sensorium, which is the true seat
of light: the eye being but the telescope through
which the light is conveyed by concentrated
circlesrl- The eye, is at the centre, heart-shaped,
but oval as a whole: when polished, it gives off
light, is polarized, and becomes the perfect dia
mond: the upper part of every sphere being the
source of heat, the lower of light. “Destroy
the brain, and thought ceases; but this merely
proves the necessity of the organ, and nothing
more: the deprivation of the eye is the depriva
tion of visual faculty; but the eye is only the
* The celebrated Russian diamond is shaped like an eye.
The eyes of one of the Hindoo idols were said to have been made of
diamond, and to follow the locker-on whichever way he went.
i' The retina is the only part of the eye susceptible oflight: from
thence it passes on to the optic nerves; these crou each other.
GG
448 THE DISCOVERY or ran VITAL PRINCIPLE,
instrument, not the percipient being.“ Every
animal, according to Dr. Grant, has one or more
eyes, consequently must have a sensorium to see
through these telescopes. The lungs connect
us with the material world, the eyes and brain
with the heavenly.
The human eye is a telescope through which
man holds converse and daily intercourse with
his Maker. It unites the whole living lens of the
animal creation, and, when drawn out, reaches
half-way between man and the Deity. It is the
vast number of lenses the eye contains which
give to the mind of man the idea of every ex
ternal object being placed at a greater distance
than it really is. Were it not for this optical
delusion, we should be frightened at the close
contact of bodies around us. “\Vhy,” asks Sir
Charles Bell, “why is the eye made to turn up
wards ?" Why is it, but because it belongs to
God not to man, being merely a telescope lent
to him for his use and pleasure. Thus it is
always straining, weeping, and looking up under
every unkindncss it meets with, to implore a safe
passport to its parent home.
The eye of man is the knot that ties him fast to
the body of his Maker. I have said that it is the.
’2 “ Lucretius maintained that the eye was not made for seeing,nor
the car for hearing."—- Win-well, B. Treatises.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 449
most perfect organ attached to the machine—Man ;"r
in this one organ is displayed all the simplicity,
beauty, and powerful mechanism of the universe.
The anatomist cannot possibly understand the
mechanism of the eye without comparing it with
the universe: he will then see that it is formed by
the rejection from its centre of all matter unneces
sary and hurtful to the organ, which, being thrown
to the surface, gravitates by its own weight, and is
consumed at the bottom or apex of the machine.
From this contrivanee, the celestial fretus is con
stantly acquiring growth, power, and extensibility
in its several organsd" This process is carried
on until, by their continued increase in size and
power, they extend beyond the prescribed limit,
and are forced to contract, for want of further
space, when they become united into one entire
body.
The eye gives motion and life to the brain:
' “ The eye is the most perfect of all the senses, and the lenstliable
to imposition; it will embrace and transmit more knowledge in a
single minute than a lecturer could dictate in an hour.“ —blr. S/rry’s
First Leclmc, Oct. 10, Lancet.
'i‘ It was the opinion of Mr. Locke, that the understanding has not
the least glimmering of any ideas which it does not receive from sen
sation or reﬂection.
Dr. Roget says, “ the same mass of nervous substance which, under
the name of brain, we have recognized as the organ of sensation, is
also, as will afterwards he shewn, the organ of volition.“
All things being material, even mind itselfis nothing more nor less
than substance acting upon substance.
450 THE mscovnnv on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
through the medium of this organ impressions of
external objects are transmitted to the sensorium.
When .thc eye is at rest, the brain also rests from
labour, and what is called sleep ensues. “Sleep
is the death or torpidity of the organs of external
sense, while the vital functions continue their accus
tomed actions; death is the sleep or torpidity of
the whole. Every organ of the animal frame
recovers from its fatigue or torpidity by rest, pro~
vided the principle of life, that is to say, the action
of the vital organs, continues." Thus the poet
says,
“ Come, gentle Sleep, attend thy votary‘s prayer,
And, though Death's image, to my couch repair!
How sweet, thus lifeless, yet with life to lie,
Thus, without dying, 0 how sweet to die l“
Sunset and sunrise mark the night and day
which the human brain is destined to enjoy: like
those of our earth in its rotatory motion, these vary
with the time of year in their division. If man, like
other animals, were to rise with the sun and be
satisﬁed to retire to rest at the hour of darkness, he
would prolong his life: the eye would preserve its
brilliancy and elasticity to a more extended period,
and the brain would shoot out nerves much stronger
in texture. Between the rising and the setting sun
is the time appointed by nature for labour. \Vhat
ever is performed afterwards, must always be done
imperfectly, and cannot fail to generate disease.
0
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 45]
Man, during sleep, is in a horizontal position, and
has the heat or ﬂame of life rising from the blood
upwards; consequently the ﬂuids circulate but
slowly through the vessels of his body, and will not
deposit or excite the brain in any way, unless the
blood itself be stimulated by unnatural aliment,
when dreams, nightmare, &c. take place.
Imaginary feeling is an impression made upon the
nerves and solid particles of the brain. The brain
is itself an accumulation and condensation of the
invisible ﬂuids constantly rising up from the com
bustion of the blood through the ascending arteries.
Real feeling is occasioned by the descending ﬂuids,
which all terminate in the uterus or generative
organs. The mucous membrane is a continuation of
the true skin, and conveys to the brain every internal
impression, in the same manner that the outer skin
does the external.
Compression of the brain is not caused, as is
generally supposed, by too copious a circulation
of the blood, but by air ascending into the cranium,
and extending the bone or skull until the very
sinuses are opened; if evaporation does not take
place, in an equal proportion to the air absorbed in
the cranium, compression of the brain is the
consequence: an obstruction of the circulation
between the arteries and veins succeeds, whence
nervous irritation must necessarily ensue. The
452 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
brain may be compressed until its essence eva
porates, and the charcoal only remains. The
uterus of the perfect life is an elastic membrane
or web, which is extended throughout every
living particle of man. When the brain contracts
the uterus expands, and the plastic diamond loses
its elastic form. Thus man dies, and his machine
is resolved into dust; but the triple elementary seed
remains unchanged: mind, being the unity of
parts of real substance, cannot be annihilated; for,
whether animal matter be in the solid, ﬂuid, or aeri
form state, it is still the same, and will reproduce,
in another state of existence, according to the degree
of condensation exercised upon it.
Mind arises from the impression made upon
the membrane or uterus by extending it: the
extension is caused by heat, the contraction or con
densation by cold. The impression may be com~
pared to the watering of silk or calico; and when
the elasticity of that membrane is lost, it shrinks
up and becomes compressed into an imperceptible
atom. All mental impressions sink deeper, and
become more solid by age. This may be accounted
for by the thickening of the membrane of life, both
externally and internally.
The elastic web that incloses every particle of
matter belonging to the machine—Man, is pure
diamond in a solid state: each particle being
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 453
cemented together by diamond in its ﬂuid state, in
the same manner that bricks are cemented together
by mortar and plaster, until the dwelling or machine
is completely formed!“ Death is the separation of
these particles, owing to the dissolution of the
elastic properties of the ﬂuid which cemented them
together; and as this ﬂuid loses its elasticity or heat,
will the mind of man or animal become collapsed,
until death ﬁnally takes place, when every particle
of these solid diamond atoms will gravitate to their
receptacle, the uterus. The germ of all animal seed,
being pure crystal, can_never be dissolved away: but
when decomposition of the living membrane takes
place, by the principle of gravitation all and every
particle composing this membrane is attracted by
the veins, and through them falls to the uterus, the
general reservoir for decomposed matter. (It is
not unusual for the uterus, when its elastic power
is gone, to beat and pulsate like the pendulum of a
clock.) In this state, man retains his mind or
intellectual faculties until the last moment of his
existence.
' “ The scarf-skin, which clothes all the rest oft-he body,gives way,
at the extremities of the toes and ﬁngers, to nails.
“ All the great cavities of the body are inclosed by membranes,
except the skull. The importance of the brain to life (which expe
rience proves to be immediate,) and the extreme tenderness of its
substance, make a solid case more necessary for it, than for any other
part: and such a case the hardness of the skull snpplies."--Pa1c_l/.
454 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Every child, born perfect, ought, if properly
managed, to arrive at a certain stature: according
to the size and stature of the parents that gave it
life, that size may be predicted at its birth.
The material of which man is constituted is
ﬂexible, and every way capable of expansion: it is
empowered to receive every noble feeling and ex
pression, both in body and mind. Like the common
tree in the ﬁeld the machine shoots forth its
branches from its heart or centre; and, according
to the nourishment and air it receives, becomes
enlarged or diminished in its growth. It differs,
however, from the tree in its locomotive power.
From this principle in man, we have a right to
conclude, that change is necessary to the growth
of both mind and body. As a proof of the truth
of this observation, those children who are chained
down, through circumstances, to one spot are
stunted, stopped in their growth, and seldom
arrive at their full stature. Should fortune pro
duce a favorable change in their circumstances
before the body arrives at that age when it
ceases to grow, an alteration rapidly takes place,
and the stunted shrivelled boy starts up into the
graceful, full-formed man. It may be said that
there are exceptions to this rule:—transplant the
man of the north, robust in stature and every way
vigorous, into our London atmosphere: we shall
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 455
ﬁnd him live and forage his way through life
better than our natives; but his progeny will
become diseased, diminished in growth, and changed
in characterﬁ“ It is in vain then to plant healthy
seed in a bad soil: the younger the plant, the
more likely to be contaminated or destroyed. It
would seem, however, that the original quality of
the material given to man must be, by nature, told
to account in whatever situation he may be in.
It should not be forgotten, that the life of the
infant, or locomotive being, is totally different
from that of the frntus. When the foetus enters
upon its new existence, the heart begins to pulsate
" “ A young lady, in the last stage of consumption, was restored
to her health by the following extraordinary and accidental
remedy :—She had long been attended by the faculty, but derived
no beneﬁt from their prescriptions; and considered herself verging
to the end of her existence, when she retired during the summer
to a vale in the country, with the intention to wait in solitude the
hour of her approaching dissolution. While in that situation, it was
her custom to rise as early asher malady would permit, and contem
plate the beauties of nature and the wonderful works of God from her
chamber window, from which she observed a dog belonging to the
house, with scarcely any ﬂesh on his bones, constantly go and lick the
dew Oﬂ'a cumomile bed in the garden; in doing which, the animal
was noticed to alter in appearance, to recover strength, and, ﬁnally,
to look plump and well. The singularity of the circumstance was
impressed strongly on the lady‘s mind, and induced her to try what
effect might be produced from following the dog's example. She
accordingly procured the dew from the same bed of camomile, drank
a small quantity each morning, and after continuing it some time
experienced some relief: her appetite became regular, she found
a return of spirits, and in the end was completely cured.“--Calm’nniun
Lfercury.
456 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
and give motion to the nerves, by daily depositing
fresh materials at the brain, causing it to shoot
out ﬁbres or tubes, which increase and lengthen as
the child grows in years. If the muscles are
allowed sufﬁcient power to move (that is, good air
and food,) in early life, the nervous tree will shoot
forth ﬁbres of vigorous growth, and the child will
attain his perfect manhood!“
Man progresses from the ovum to the full-grown
fmtus (which requires nine of our mouths to COIll
plcte); from the foetus to the adult: he should
attain his full height at eighteen years after his
birth: at double this period, thirty-six years,
he should be at his greatest perfection: another
eighteen will bring him to his ﬁfty-fourth year,
when he will pass his second equinox and enter
on the winter of life: his age being to threescore
years and ten, or twelve. Man may be said to
have four periods (a spring and autumnal equinox,
and a summer and winter solstice); the last termi
‘ “ In Little White Lion street, Long Acre, the inspectors of r.
District Visiting Society found, some months ago, a house, the internal
area of which is only twelve feet by twenty-four, (not half that of the
Cowthorpe oak, which is twenty-six feet in diameter,) containing
nine small rooms, in which there dwelt, (i. e. eat, drank, and slept,
and did all that poor mortality requires,) no less than eleven men,
thirteen women, and sixty-nine children, making atotal of ninety
threc human beings, who have been crowded into less space than is
enjoyed by a single tree, (Ammnitates Quernize.)-Prqjessor Burnett‘s
Outlines of Botany, Vol. i. p. 6].
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 457
nating his career in this world: each period, con
taining in number eighteen years ; he is growing
and struggling to attain human perfection the ﬁrst
thirty-six, and the last he is gradually losing it and
falling to decay.
“ How soon
Our new-born light
Attains to full-aged noon!
And this, how soon to grey-haired night!
We spring, we bud, we blossom, and we blast,
Ere we can count our days—~0ur days they ﬂee so fast."
Quay-les.
When man has arrived at the summit of all
knowledge, what does that knowledge teach him?
to return back to simple nature, to retrace his steps,
to become a child again in manner, to feed on simple
diet, to be amused with being always in the air,
to be sportive in the ﬁeld, to be employed in the
garden, to watch the rising and setting sun, the
moon, and stars; in short, to admire and peruse the
works of the Creatorﬁ“
° Mr. James, in his work, The Gipsey, says, “ I quitted a life of sloth,
eﬂ‘eminacy, and bondage, for one of ease, freedom, and activity. I
left false forms, unnatural restraints, enfeehling habits,-—ay! and
sickness too, for the customs of my fathers, for man's native mode of
life, for a continual existence in the bosom of beautiful nature, and
for blessed health. We know no sickness but that which carries us
to our grave; we feel no vapours, we know no nerves. Go, ask the
multitude of doctors,—e curse which man's own luxurious habits
have brought upon hing—go, ask your doctors, whether a gipsey be
not to be envied, for his exemption from the plagues that punish
other men's etTem'mate habits." And again, “I walk, hand in
458 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
The ﬁrst seven years of man’s life should be
devoted entirely to sportive amusement in the open
air; the next seven to graceful attitudes, such as
riding, leaping, swimming, climbing mountains,
games of ball, &c., and the healthful pursuits of I
botany, mineralogy, and entomology.
Nature intended woman not only to bring forth
man, but to nourish and comfort him in his infancy,
and to implant in his tender heart the ﬁrst seeds of
moral goodness: where do we see a man of distin
guished character, but is indebted for it to his mother?
Women, then, ought to be taught their real value
and importance in society: surely nature never
formed them merely to amuse man. “It is their
province not only to form the body, but also to
give the mind its most early bias—they have it
very much in their power to make men healthy or
valetudinary, useful in life, or the pests of society.”
hand with the seasons, through the world. Winter, your enemy, is
my friend and companion. Gladly do I see him come, with his white
mantle, through the bare woods and over the brown hills. I watch
the budding forth ofspring, too, and her light airs and changing skies,
as I would the sports ofa beloved child. [hail the majestic summer,
as if the God of my own land had come to visit our race, even here;
and in the yellow autumn, too, with the rich fruit and the fading
leaf, 1 have a comrade full of calmer thoughts. The sunrise, and
the sunset, and the mid-day, to me are all eloquence. 'l'he storms
tln- stream, the clouds, the wind, for me have each a voice. I talk
with the bright stars as they wander through the deep sky, and I listen
to the sun and moon, as they sing along their lonely pilgrimage. Is
not this enough? What need I more than nature i”
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 459
Were the time that is generally spent by females
in the acquisition of triﬂing accomplishments
employed in learning how to bring up their children,
how to dress them so as not to hurt, cramp, or
conﬁne their tender bodies, but in a manner best
calculated to promote their growth and strength,
mankind would derive the greatest beneﬁt.
While the most enlightened men of the present
day are studying how to cure disease, it should be
the female’s part to prevent it. Let woman eman
cipate herself from the errors contracted in her
youth! Let her begin her education again! Let her
become the companion of her infant children! Let
her carefully watch their ﬁrst feelings, nor any longer
suﬂ'er them to become destroyed by being at so early
an age placed under the care of hirelings. If what
has been said by a very clever writer (Dr. Jorton)
be true, that “ what man is made during the ﬁrst
six years of life, he will continue the remainder of
his life to be,”——if, I say, this be true—how amply
would any mother be repaid for devoting these ﬁrst
six years to her offspring! I know it will be said
that few mothers are capable of the task. I say,
all are. All that survive childbed may become
either less or more the protectors of their children.
How many diseases might not be prevented by
obeying the ﬁrst law of nature !"‘ Do we not ﬁnd
9 Why do we hear of so many diseases of the heart in the present
day? Pray are not all the nobler feelings of the heart suppressed,
nay, almost annihilated, by a false education?
460 THE nrscovnnr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
in all the lower animals different constitutions,
some stronger and some weaker, yet do we ever
ﬁnd them abandon their young?
Instinctive power is given to the machine for self~
preservation, reason for the preservation of the
whole race. Instinct will teach an individual what
food to take and what to reject: it will teach him
also to save his child from dangers and alarms
during infancy; but it will not teach him to guard
his offspring from the vices of society: hence the
necessity for reason, without which man would soon
become extinct.
If mothers were to imitate the lower races of
animals in nursing their young, they would never
lose sight of their infant offspring. The mother
should accompany the nurse and child in all their
walks: her eye should always be upon her babe:
she would thus see it made comfortable in the
nurse’s arms, or when otherwise she Would relieve
its position by extending her mercy to the nurse:
she would then see that her child was taken nowhere
but to the park, garden, or ﬁelds, where she herself
had directed. In this delightful attendance on her
offspring, the mother would be gaining health for
herself, and sweet wholesome nurturance for her
young. Any woman may bring a child into the
world, but to rear that child up in health, and make
it a useful member of society, is not quite so easy a.
task. As that, however, must devolve on females
OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 461
as a duty, such duty should be paramount: all
desires, all pleasures should give way to this. No
nursery should be distant from the mother’s sitting
room: the nurse should be made the friend and
companion of the parent; she should be made to
feel a real interest for both mother and babe. The
former should not forget that the nurse may one
day become a mother herself, and that she is not
only responsible to rear up her own child a ﬁtting
member of society, but also to render her nurse
capable, in knowledge and judgment, to become in
her turn a wife and mother.
Fathers have, or ought to have, an equal interest
in the welfare of their children. “A gentleman of
the ﬁrst rank is not ashamed to give orders con
cerning his dogs and horses; why should he hesi
tate to perform the same good office for that being
who derived its existence from himself, who is the
heir of his fortunes, and the future hope of his
country?" Education should be such as would con
tribute to dignify and strengthen the human cha
racter. Effeminacy will ever prove the ruin of any
state where it prevails, and when its foundations
are laid in infancy, they can never afterwards be
wholly eradicated. That man, in the present day,
is degenerating, must be quite evident, in spite of
all the improvements in the medical department,
and apparent progress of education. The prospe
462 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
_.‘-:——‘I -—“
rity ofEngland depending on the health and strength
of its population, how to arrest the progress of this
degeneracy should be the study of every thinking
individual: and, the happiness of our offspring
depending on the improvement of society, what
more do we want to encourage us to undertake the
task? Parents, who love their offspring and wish
well to their country. ought, in the management of
their children, to avoid everything that may have a
tendency to make them weak or eﬂ'eminate, and to
take every method in their power to render their
constitutions strong and hardy.
“ By arts like these
Laeonia nurs‘d of old her hardy sons,
And Rome‘s unconquered legions urged their way,
Unhurt, through every toil, in every clime."
Nothing can more clearly illustrate the living
action of man than a blacksmith’s forgc:*‘ when,
from his infancy, he is brought up in pure air,
" “ The pulse in the time of Hippocrates was, probably, not more
than 60 beats in a minute; from which, probably, originates our
smallest division of time, denominated the moment or second,
which divides the day into 86,400 parts. As the human species reﬁne,
probably the pulse quickens, and so completely are we machines, that,
like a clock, the faster we go the sooner we are down."-—London
Diedir'ul and Surgical Journal.
“ Were it possible to view through the skin the mechanism of our
bodies, the sight would frighten us out of our wits. ‘ Durst we make
a single movement,‘ asks a lively French writer, ‘ or stir a step from
the place we were in, if we saw our blood circulating, the tendons
pulling, the lungs blowing, the humours ﬁltrating, and all the in
*‘_-‘q__~ ~_- —
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 463
little or comparatively no attention is necessary for
him to grow up healthy and strong: supply him
but with sufﬁcient food (or fuel), and the lungs (or
forge) will do the rest. The more suitable the
diet is to the stomach, the less action for the lungs
to perform, and vice versa: again, the better and
more pure the air he breathes, the less attention is
necessary to the nature of his diet. Being well sup
plied with good atmospheric air, all will go on as it
should do, and the infant will progress in health
'and strength to its perfect manhood.
Fever is a simple disease, and the only one with
which human nature has to contend. There are
but two causes, the one an excess of food)“ the other
too great a deﬁciencyxi' In either case, infection
comprehensible assemblage of ﬁbres, tubes, pumps, valves, currents,
pivots, which sustain an existence, at once so frail, and so presump
tuous?“‘—Pale_y’s Natural Theology.
" “I tell honestly what I think is the cause of the complicated mala
dies of the human race; it is their gormandizing and stufﬁng, and
stimulating those organs (the digestive) to excess, thereby producing
nervous disorders and irritations. The state of their minds is another
grand cause— the ﬁdgeting and discontenting yourself about that
which cannot be helped; passions of all kinds, malignant passions,
and worldly cares, pressing upon the mind, disturb the cerebral action,
and do a great deal of harm.“-Abcrnethy.
“The elevation of shells is caused by too much nutrition in the ani
mal.“—-Dr. Roget.
“ It is remarkable to ﬁnd cilia in the parts for digestion and respi
ration."— Dr- Rnget- , ‘
“t “Children are more frequently infested by worms than adults, be—
cause of their greater moisture ; and those children, more than others,
HH
464 THE nrscovsav or "run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
or contagion must be the result, (the former being
the latent, the latter the active state of the dis
ordered machine.)* Fever varies in symptom from
the lowest to the highest state of the thermometer,
(or pulse,) according to existing causes, and the
peculiar constitution or age of the patient. In all
common and continued fevers, the circulation is in
creased; but, on the contrary, in the typhus fever
it is impeded: hence, that dark hue to the skin ,
hence, purple spots anddepression ; hence,the eﬂiuvia
from the body, that communicates the disease to
others; in short, in the ﬁrst instance, the body is in
a state of infection, or fermentation; in the last,
typhus, it is in a state of putrefaction and disso
lution.+
When infection takes place by an introduction
of bad air into the stomach of an individual, it stands
to reason that the ﬂuids must become changed: the
noxious qualities must be separated from the pure
matter intended to nourish the frame: air or steam
who are of a relaxed ﬁbre, and in whose chylopoietic viscera digestion
is ill performed.“—-'l'he Doctor Magazine.
“ The entozoa do not exist except the vital powers are weakened."
—Dr. Roget.
° Infection implies the virus taken into the stomach by bad air,
improper food, or drink: contagion, simple contact witn the dis
eased, or clothing of the diseased body.
1' The lower the temperature of man, the greater the diﬂiculty he
has to withstand the currents of contagion always ﬂoating about in
the atmosphere.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 465
-is the consequence, and man is swelled out in differ
ent parts of his body. The air or steam, becoming
condensed, causes violent pains, twitches, and
spasm, cramp, and every kind of contraction, even
unto the pulse, which rises or expands just as the
air in the body is heated or cooled; for fever is pro
duced by too much or too little action of the heart,
the primary organ: life and death are inseparable.
The ﬁrst object of a physician should ever be
to ﬁnd out the true cause of the complaint; the
second, to do that cause away; the third, to cure
the effect of that cause.
In order to effect a cure for each class of diseases,
the heart's action must ﬁrst be consulted: to quiet,
to soften, and compose this primary organ of the
animal, must naturally assuage all the others.
I have said that the elastic membrane which
surrounds every portion of the machine—Man, is
composed of diamond, in its threefold state,—-solid,
ﬂuid, and aeriform. (See page 452.) I will now
proceed to describe the living action of this skin
or tissue, conﬁning myself to any one point or
sphere of the surface.
All matter being diamond} the primary egg in
each sphere becomes by pressure divided into three
' “ Some of the secondary acephalocysts are slightly milky or
opaline; others are perfectly transparent, and capable of answering
mmplctely the purpose of a lens.“—Dr. Hodgkin.
466 THE DISCOVERY on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
forms of matter, or eggs: the black crystal being at
the bottom of the line, the red in the centre, and at
the top the perfect white. The black, or lowest of
these three,‘ is formed by matter falling down each
side of the central egg, while in a liquid or combus
tible staterf The central egg, in the change, has
acquired the form of a heart or hollow tube. The
matter falling down the sides of this tube, by con
tact at the bottom, or apex, gives oﬂ‘ the electric
spark, by which means the hollow tube or heart in
the centre is kept boiling and constantly throwing
05 fresh matter, depositing the perfect matter at the
’ “The pigmentum nigrum is the cause of colour in the skin : the
same material constitutes the black portion in the centre of the eye.“
—Dr. Roget.
‘1' Electricity and combustion are identical. It is the great voltaic
action, that separates the primary element into a binary or two-fold
substance. It is the mixture of these two elements in their opposite
states, that causes a corrodation and condensation of a third element,
carbon.
“ The diamond is pure carbon, or charcoal crystallized. It is
among the rarest of all known substances, and carbon is among the
most abundant. We can have a roomful of pure carbon for sixpence,
but a bit of pure crystallized carbon, the size of half your thumb, is
worth many thousand pounds. You drink diamonds when you drink
soda water; but you drink them in the form of gas. Mr. Faraday has
succeeded, by immense pressure, in reducing carbon from the gaseous
to the liquid state; but it must be kept in a glass tube hermetically
sealed. The moment it comes in contact with the atmosphere, itagain
assumes the gaseous form. Diamond requires great heat to burn it,
but when it does burn, it consumes utterly. Its whole substance
changes into that kind of gas which is pumped into soda water, and
is produced naturally in champagne."
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 467
top of the sphere, and the gravitating or imperfect
matter at the apex or bottom.* Thus it will be seen
that the machine or primary egg is forming, at the
same time, two sorts of matter or spheres: one at the
top (the perfect one,) ejected by force from the burst
Lug open of the machine or central cup, the other
from the falling ﬂuid to the bottom (the imperfect).
“ With the germs oflife, in all organized structures,
will be found conjoined the seeds of decay and
death."+ Man is a complete manufactory ofworms :
every organ of his frame being built from them,
and cemented together to form one grand whole:
' “A small species of parasitical animals has lately been discovered
aﬂ‘ecting the muscles of voluntary motion, amongst the ﬁbres of
which they have been found generally dispersed over the body. They
consist of very minute cysts, of an oblong ﬁgure, in size and colour
bearing considerable resemblance to the young of pediculi, attached to
the hair of persons of dirty habits. When examined with a lens, these
little cysts are seen, in many instances, not to be perfectly ovoid, but
to be irregularly contracted towards one extremity. so as to form a
sort of short imperfect neck. It is also not uncommon to ﬁnd some
opacity towards one or both of the extremities. They are placed in
the directions of the ﬁbres; and are lodged in the cellular membrane
immediately investing the muscular ﬁbrilhe, or the tendinous ﬁbres to
which they are attached. When the specimen is sufﬁciently recent,
one and sometimes two thread-like worms may be discovered coiled
up in each of the cysts.“—Lectura an the .Morbid Anatomy of the
Salons and Mucous Membranes, by Thomas Hodgkin, Ill-D.
1~ “ They (the cysts) occasionally appear to have been produced at
different times, or to have advanced with greater degrees of rapidity.
By the united eﬂ'ect qf the growth of time cysts, the parent t yst is ﬁnally
burst, and dies.“—.Dr. Hodgkin.
1 “Our food is full of worms and their ova: it is supposed by
468 Tue DISCOVERY or 'rns. VITAL PRlNCIPLE,
When, therefore, by any means, this cement is
loosened by its elastic property becoming decom
posed, the worms are set at liberty, and become
themselves active living ftetusesf" gradually making
their way to the surface of man's body, they raise
in his skin tubercles of various forms and sizes, like
unto the hillocks and mountains upon the earth’s
surface, and, like them also, they burst forth and
form volcanic eruptions, emitting their lava, by the
attraction of which new depositions are formed from
the external atmosphere. Thus do the worms
receive fresh growth by seed from without, while
they are gradually withdrawing their sustenance
from the internal manrlv By the union of the
many that allﬂuids, even the blood itself, abound with their principia ;
some will have it, that it is from these worms, or ova taken in with
our food, intestinal worms are produced; but how does this account
for worms being found in the intestines of such very young children,
and even fetuses! Besides, the heat of the stomach and the gastric
ﬂuid would soon destroy any worms taken into the stomach, Wlllt‘ll
were not proper to the animal body,- add to this, that worms that art
found in the intestines of animals, whether of mankind or of beasts.
birds, or ﬁshes, are unlike any that are found among vegetables, in
earth, or in water.“
’ The Vesicular Worms or Hydatids “are not very rare in man—
they infest all portions of his body, interfere with his existence, and
have been found at all ages, even in the i'u'tus.“—Dr. Hodgkin.
“ The entozoa are found in the tissues as well as in the cavities uf
the body."-—lbid.
“The entozoa are not furnished with organs of locomotion.“—
lh'. Roget.
'I' “ The young hydatids appear to be produced from different parts
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAX. 469
internal ﬂuid, and the seed from without, the worms
become changed and developed into crawling beasts,
of the parent cyst; to which they are described, by authors, as being
found attached, sometimes on the inside, and sometimes on the out
side. For my own part, I have never known an acsphalocyst to pro—
duce smaller ones, except from its internal surface ; and to this I have
not seen them attached, except when of almost microscopic size.
Whilst scarcely a few hundredths of an inch in diameter, they may be
seen in great numbers, perfectly detached, in the ﬂuid of the parent;
and neither then, nor when of larger size, have I been able to discover
the least trace of neck, or other attachment, to the superior cyst.
On the inner surface qf the latter there are frequently seen numerous
elevations, variously disposed, and differing both in form and magni
tude, but generally minute. The opaque white spots affecting the
hydatid membrane, are not conﬁned to the internal surface: they are
occasionally found upon the external surface. 1 have seen them half
or two-thirds of an inch in diameter, ofacireular ﬁgure, with an
irregular surface, something like that of a cauliﬂower. ' " “ These
inequalities have been supposed to depend on nascent hydatids; and
the differences which they present have been assumed to be the
characteristics of three species of acephalocysts. 1 am satisﬁed that
many of these elevations are morbid growths from the parent cyst,
and others of them possibly point out the spots whence the young have
already been detached. 1 am not, however, prepared to aﬂirm, that
none of these elevations are attributable to nascent hydatids.
“ In a case examined by Francis Sibson, jun., and myself, numerous
transparent spherical granules were seen in the parietes of a parent
hydatid aeephalocyst; they were, in all probability, nascent young
ones, and appeared to throw some light on the mode of production.
They were situated much nearer to the internal than the external
surface; and, although a few of them were ofa larger size than some
of the small, perfectly formed, detached hydatids, which, in other cases,
1 have seen within the interior of the parent, in this instance there
were none which had become detached. [imagine that the separation
or retention of these little bodies may, in some degree, depend upon
the nature of the internal surface ofthe parent. If this internal sur
fare be formed by an extremely thin membrane, or by a scarcely con
crete substance, they may become detached almost as soon as formed ;
470 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
poisonous and destructive to the health and happi
ness of the human race; and ﬁnally, by their repro
duction, they destroy the atmosphere necessary to
our very existence!“ These animals, however, in their
turn are destroyed, and from the decomposition of
their bodies, the race of insects is generatedri~
Every living particle of man being the foetus of
but if the internal surface be composed of a ﬁrm membrane, or some
tenacious substance, they may be retained, as in the instance last re
ferred to, and even acquire the semblance ofa peduncular connexion
amongst themselves or with the parent cyst.“—-l)1-. Hodgkin, (Clipde
from the Medico-Chirurgical Review.)
' “ An interesting, but not a very promising part of the enquiry
into the history ofaccphnlocysts, relates to the possibility of removing
them. Nature does so in two ways: 1st, by forminga communication
between the cyst containing the hydatids, and either the surface of the
body, or the intestinal canal, or some other cavity, as, for example,
the urinary passages, by which they may be evacuated. Or 2dly, the
animal dies; its ﬂuid is absorbed; and its membrane is folded and
shut up, as an inert foreign body, within the outer cyst, which con
tracts upon it. The ossiﬁcation of the cyst, thought by some to be
a natural mode of effecting the death of the hydatid, is looked on by
Dr. Hodgkin as a result of it, amore probable opinion.“ Ibid.
Of the Cysticercus, one of the classes of hydatids, Dr. Hodgkin
observes, “The enclosing cyst, in which the cysticcrci are lodged,
whether derived from cellular membrane alone, or from a serous mem
brane in conjunction with the cellular, is generally thin; but when,
in consequence of the death and contraction of the cysticercus, the
enclosing cyst is allowed also to contract, it may acquire considerable
thickness, and a dense structure. This is very conspicuous in the
livers of sheep, in which the whole sac sometimes acquires a bony
character. The dwth and contraction of the cysticerrus’ constitute the
process by which a natural cure is eﬂ'ected.“—]bid.
'l' “ The celebrated Italian physician Redi, who died in l697, was the
ﬁrst to prove, by experiment, that insects are not engendered in
putridity. To prove the fact, he had three snakes, which he called
on, PHYSlOLOGY or MAN. 471
some animal, and all these living animals, or worms,
being united and strung together, when any one
of them gains strength superior to the others, it
Angui d‘:Esculapio, killed, and put into an open box. These were
soon covered with small worms, all alike in shape, being conical, but
of diﬂ'erent sizes, as they were produced at diﬁ‘erent times, and which
increased daily both in size and number. Having consumed the
ﬂesh, they all made their escape through ﬁssures of the box, leaving
the naked bones in a corner. He again had three of the snakes killed,
and put into a box, as before . in a few days they were peopled with
worms of the same shape as the former; but some, less than the rest,
were inclined to ﬂesh-colour, while the others were entirely white
l-laving devoured the snakes, they anxiously sought to escape, but as
he had taken more care than before in securing all the outlets in the
box, they were unable to effect this. Gradually, they became more
quiet, and after some time, lay motionless, as if asleep. Shrinking
into themselves, they imperceptibly took the form of an egg, and by
the twentieth day they had all assumed this ﬁgure. At ﬁrst they
were ofa white colour, but by slow degrees became golden, and then
red. Some remained of this colour, but the rest continued to become
darker and darker, till they were quite black; and, from soft and
tender, their skins had changed to the brittle shell of the chrysalis or
aurelia. On examining these more closely, he found the black ones
were more strongly marked than the others, which were nearly smooth.
At the end of eight days the red chrysalides burst, and from each
issued a ﬂy ofa. dull ash colour, ‘ turbid, dismayed, and, so to speak,
wrinkled and unﬁnished,‘ with its wings yet unfolded; but in the
space ofa quarter of an hour it dilated its little body, unfolded its
wings, and, relinquishing the sad ash colour, it was dressed in a vivid
green, marvellously brilliant. It was now so much larger than before,
that it seemed impossible to conceive that its little shell could have
contained it.‘ In fourteen days some of the black ones burst, and
produced a larger ﬂy, ‘ black, marked with white, hairy on the abdo
men, and red at the nether end ; such as daily frequent butchers‘ shops,
or any place where there is dead ﬂesh.’
“ So many diﬂ'erent ﬂies from the same kind of ﬂesh did not dis
may, but, on the contrary, stimulated him to fresh exertions; instead,
therefore, of only one kind, he put many into different boxes, and
472 THE mscovnnv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
deranges the whole system of man, and ﬁnally must
either be destroyed itself, or it will destroy him)”
The animal, however, which dies of an eruptive or
skin disease, will, in truth, not die, but become
asphyxiated; life will only be suspended, and he
will make his escape in another shape or form:
witness the transformation of the silk-worm.
All eruptive diseases are foreign to the machine,
or frame of man; they are the parasites developed
by exotic matter. All those that lie concealed be
tween the internal and external membranes belong
to the blood, and are thrown to the extremities
without penetrating the skin; for example, the
measles, scarlatina, gout, rheumatism, erysipelas, &c.
obtained the same result as before, except that the diﬁ‘erent species of
inserts were more numerous. _
“ After this he made many more experiments on lion‘s ﬂesh, tiger‘s,
and in fact mullitudinm/s species of ﬁsh, ﬂesh, and fowl, cooked and
raw, and found that the insects were promisculously produced on all
kinds of meat; and, indeed, one piece would sometimes contain all
the species he had observed, and he generally observed not only worms
hut eggs. ‘ ° ' He always found, that uncovered meats shortly teemed
with life; while, on the contrary, those that had no communication
with the external air corrupted, but never verminat-ed."
" “ Amongst a collection of hydatids, it is by no means uncommon
to ﬁnd some which appear to have lost their vitality, and to have
become collapsed, more or less opaque, and of a yellowish colour.
These parasitical animals are supposed to enjoy but a short period of
life. The hydatids of pigs and sheep are said to be produced in
spring, and to die the following winter. It is certain, however, that
in man, either the continued life of individual hydatids, or a. succession
of generations, will protract, not merely the existence, but the growth
of hydatid tumors to a IllULh longer period.“--Dr. Hodgkin.
0a, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 4-73
0
are diseases of the blood. The lowest stratum of
disease is that of the inner membrane, and is formed
by the decomposition of the heart itself; the diseases
of the blood, caused by the inferior organs, con
stituting the second stratum, while the third or
parasitical is foreign to the body, and results from
the two former)“ In the early ages, man was strong,
and took exercise enough to enable him to throw off
all poisonous matter through the pores of the skin;
hence the frequent occurrence of leprosies, plagues,
boils, and blains, rarely met with in the present
dayxf'
' “ Of the parasitic insects it is requisite to speak. The most pro
minent are the various species of pediculi, or lice—the pediculus cor
poris— pediculus capitis—and pcdicnlus pubis; the pulex irritans, or
ﬂea; the cimex lectuarius, or bug; the pulex penetrans, an American
insect, which makes its way under the skin of the hands and feet,
deposits its eggs there, and produces troublesome tumours; and several
species of acarus, as the acarus scabiei, or itch insect."—I)r. Hodgkin.
“Other parasitical animals support a more distinct life, and have
recourse to the animal which they infest only for their supply of food,
and for the deposition of their eggs or larvae. It is for a part only of
their lives that they are imbedded in, or attached to, the animal, at
whose expense they subsist. The greater number of these belong to
the active class of insects; but a few, as, for example, the leech, are
found amongst the annelides mollusca."—lbid.
'i’ “ The leprosy was once so common a complaint, that in Europe
alone there were between twenty and thirty thousand lazarettos, or
plague-houses. In Dauphiny there was a plague-house for Nobles,
and in Paris one for females of the blood Royal."
ls then civilization an antidote against pestilence? it is said to cir
eumscribe its inﬂuence, and dry up its source. The plague does not
prevail in a well-regulated country. It has not prevailed in China,
6
474 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
There are three classes of fever; the ﬁrst class,
or that of the ovum, was exhibited on the surface
of the earth prior to the ﬂood. The ovum of our
planet was black, and its decomposition produced
the lowest species of parasites. The decomposition
of these has produced the second class of disease, or
that of the foetus, seen in the present races inha
biting the earth’s surface; ﬁnally, their destruction
will deposit the _baseiof the future generation,
(answering to the surface of man's body in his
locomotive state.)
Organization commenced with the pure diamond,
all being good and perfect up to a certain point,
when the sphere of life was complete: but our ﬁrst
parents brought on the descending creation of
disease and death by their disobedience. It was
the malic, or apple acid,‘ the opposing principle to
life, the juice of the verjuice crab, which was
the ﬁrst fruit of our own island: it was this
apple and its juice that ﬁrst produced disease,
although that country may be regarded as subject to it from the
nature of its climate. It has not prevailed in France, Holland,
or England, for more than a century; although in each of these
countries it had once its seat.
' “The fruit of the various kinds of apple abound with an acid,
called the malic, which is more or less predominant. The expressed
juice of the unripe apples, especially of the wild crab, is exceedingly
sour and austere; it is commonly known as verjuicc.“-—Prq/e\sm
Burnett‘s Botany.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 47a
w
and marked with an indelible stain the future
life of man. This mark is the mark of primary
disease—the spot of the internal ferns or trees
of the primeval forests} never, never to be
eradicated, until the great, the ﬁnal change:
when the coal or coke of the internal remains
of this earth, and the green or half-charred wood
on its surface, shall become ignited, and all be
consumed, (as predicted by Scripture,) and again
mashed up into one general substance, one carbo
naceous mass of imperishable iron-stone, or ferrugi
nous earth.
Man contains within his own frame the seed of
every animal which has preceded him in the grand
scale of creation; when his body becomes degene
rated and separated into parts, or his whole machine
destroyed, these elementary particles are set at
liberty and awakened into active life, each particle
producing a generation after its own particular
kind. Man, indeed, is (and I feel assured the theory
cannot be denied,) formed of a complete tissue of
worms. From the very centre of the system unto
" The specimens of fern, taken from the coal-beds in the present
day, are not, however, trees as generally supposed, but the remains of
the once living moving inhabitants themselves: these very spots are
the internal marks of the organic disease of that once gig-antic race:
the mere amphibious coating that concealed and preserved the in
ternal man.
476 THE mscovnnv OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
the surface, his whole body is nothing but a conti
nuation of worms, all linked together to form one
tree or rock, rising up perpendicularly to the earth’s
surface in the midst of the ﬂuid atmosphere, which
is given off, and daily increasing from his own body.
The outward skin of every animal encloses the
whole race of its predecessors. While the skin is
constantly undergoing change and forming a new
deposit for a succeeding generation of a more
perfect species, the single animal is itself endowed
with the faculty of propagating and replenishing
the world with its own particular kind. Thus
hath every animal (man included) the two-fold
mode of propagation, (analogous to the plant or
vegetable, see pages 198-203;) one from its external
membrane, the other from the internal ovum. By
the ﬁrst it constructs itself an independent tene
ment and sphere for locomotion; by the second,
companions and associates for its youthful existence,
and guides and protectors for old age and in
ﬁrmities. Mechanism is an instinctive faculty of
every animal, and progresses with its growth and
necessities. Every animal seeks, by this ingenuity,
to procure the primary object—its own safety.
Thus doth it, by its mechanical instinct, contri
bute its own share towards perpetuating and
improving human machinery. Instinct belongs to
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 477
the primary organ—the heart (or inferior machine,)
design to the head (or superior.)
“ After examining the nature of the principles of
life, M. Cuvier establishes the general conclusion, that
no body exists which has not once formed part of
a body similar to itself, from which it has been
detached ; or, that all bodies have shared the life
of another body, before they themselves exercise
vital motion; and it is even by the effect of the
vital force, to which they then belonged, that they
have become suiiiciently developed to support an
isolated life. From this conclusion may be deduced
the axiom, that ‘life springs from life, and no other
life exists than that which has been transmitted
from one living body to another, in uninterrupted
succession.’-——‘ Being unable to go back to the
ﬁrst origin of living bodies, we have no resource,’
say M. Cuvier, ‘ but to seek information of the
true nature of the forces which animate them, in an
examination of their composition; that is to say, of
their substance, and the combination of elements
which composes this substance or tissue. For
although this tissue, and this combination, are, in
' some measure, the results of the action of the vital
principles which gave them being, and continue to
preserve them, it is evident that these principles can
only have in them their source and their foundation.
Thus, if the ﬁrst assemblage of these mechanical
478 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
and chemical elements of a living body has been
effected by the vital principle of the body from
which it descends, we cannot but ﬁnd in it a similar
force, and the causes of this force, in order to exer
cise a similar action in favour of the body, which,
in turn, descends from it. But, although our know
ledge of the composition of living bodies is too im
perfect to deduce clearly from it the effects they
present to us, we may, at any rate, make use of
that which we do know, in order to recognize these
bodies even when inactive, and to distinguish their
remains after death; for, in no unorganized bodies
do we ﬁnd ﬁbrous or cellular tissue, or that multi
plicity of volatile elements which forms the character
of all organization, whether actually living or having
lived. Thus, while inanimate solids are only com
posed of polyhedral particles, mutually attracted by
the faces they present; while they only resolve
themselves into a. limited number of elementary
substances; while they are only formed by a com
bination of these substances, and an aggregation
of these particles; while they only increase by [he
jua'ta-position qf new particles, which envelope
the ﬁrst mass by their layers ; and while they are
only destroyed by some mechanical or chemical
agency, which alters their combinations; on the
other hand, organized bodies, composed of a tissue
of ﬁbres and plates, the intervals of which are ﬁlled
0R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. . 479
with ﬂuids, resolve themselves almost entirely into
volatile substances, spring from bodies similar to
themselves, from which they are only separated
when they can act by their own strength, assimilate
themselves incessantly with foreign substances,
and, introducing these substances between their
particles, increase by internal force, and at length
perish by this internal force, by the effects even of
their vital principle.“
I have shown, or endeavoured to show, what fever
is ; and, in my opinion, fever is the only true disease,
that one comprehending every other. Disease, or
fever, is then the development of matter not analo
gous to the body of man, but corrupt and uncon
genial to his nature, which weakens and destroys
his vital powers, and ﬁnally brings his whole fabric
to a premature decay. Having already stated, ina
former part of this work, that disease and death are
the result of disobedience to the laws of God; it
behoves me in this place to endeavour to dive into
and determine what these laws really are: we
shall then see in what manner mankind are deviating
from the true path.
Man is subject to, and governed by, seven
laws, and these laws are universal and invariable:
four of them are primary, as attraction, repulsion,
’ Mrs. Lee‘s Life of Cuvier.
ll
480 Tue mscoveny or THE VXTAL PRINCIPLE,
gravitation, and deposition; the other three
secondary, viz. absorption, muscular motion, and
locomotion.
The primary laws are simple, and belong to the
matter itself, in its non-elastic state: the secondary
are compound, and belong only to the machine, or
elastic state of the materials.
Matter, in its solid state, has the simple power of
attraction: in the ﬂuid state, its power is doubled,
it attracts and repels: in the aeriform state, its
power is fourfold,—-it attracts, repels, gravitates,
and deposits.
The compound laws are acquired as follows: the
egg has absorption ; the foetus, has (in addition to
absorption) the power of muscular motion, and the
full—formed animal is gifted with the most perfect
power—locomotion.
Attraction is the ﬁrst law of animal life, and
belongs to matter in its latent or solid state. This
law will be found, upon consideration, to be very
different from that of gravitation. Bodies gravitate
in exact proportion to their loss of power or heat,
and always fall perpendicularly to their surface.
Attraction acts horizontally, and two solid crystal
line particles being pressed together by gravitation
or any other foreign force, unite cohesively and be
come one living body. Thus did celestial matter
originally become united into an ovum, (the ﬁrst
I
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 481
condition of all organization,) by this law of attrac
tion or unity which forms, as it were, a ground
work or basis for all subsequent power. From
this may be drawn an inference respecting the
Divine origin of matter, for attraction is synony
mous with unity or love, the perfect attributes of
the Creator: it was indeed a part of the heathen
creed that God employed the principle of love, in
the formation of the universe!
The basis of matter or ovum being formed, we
ﬁnd a new law in action. Mr. Whewell, in the
Bridgewater Treatises, enquires, “Who shall enun
ciate for us, and in terms of what notions, the
general law of chemical composition and decompo
sition? Sometimes, indeed, we give the name of
attraction to the afﬁnity by which we suppose the
particles of the various ingredients of bodies to be
aggregated; but no one can point out any common
feature between this and the attraction of which
alone we know the exact effects. He who shall
discover the true general law of the forces by which
elements form compounds, will probably advance as
far beyond Newton, as Newton went beyond
Aristotle. But who shall say in what direction this
vast ﬂight shall be, and what new views it shall
' “The love of God is the perpetual knot, and link, orchain of the
world, and the immoveable pillar of every part thereof, and the hilsll
and foundation of the universal."—Plate.
482 THE DISCOVERY or 'rnn VITAL PRINCIPLE,
open to us of the manner in which matter obeys the
laws of the Creator P"
Absorption, which is only another form of attrac
tion, viz. nggregalion,* is situated at the surface of
the animal body, while attraction acts at its poles or
gravitating line. At the poles, matter is of one
kind only, and unites cohesively, increasing in
force and strength upwards, according to the multi
plied power of its particles, until a full stream of
attraction is obtained, when it becomes perfectly
radiant in power. At the surface, on the other
hand, which is the elastic web or membrane, en
closing every atom of vitality, there are other laws
in action, and repulsion being one of these, all
matter, not analogous to the body, is repelled, all
matter of the same form and quality absorbed. In
this manner the machine, or animal, draws, by suction
into its centre, all materials relating to itself and pro
per for its nourishment and increase in growth; the
power of attracting its kind increasing with the in
crease of matter and organizations} Solid bodies or
crystals attract crystals ; ﬂuids, ﬂuids ; and aeriform
matter, the aeriform. Thus diamond attracts diamond;
water, water; and carbon, carbon. Iron attracts
' “Aggregation is the attractive power of matter.“—Mr. Brande.
1' Majendie says that “ all bodies, living and inert, imbibe ;“ and
that “ all the tissues of the animal economy enjoy this property of
imhihition."
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 483
iron; gold, gold; and silver, silver."" Absorption
is stronger in the ﬂuid than in the solid state of
matter: thus has water multiplied, and particle
been added to particle, until it has increased to its
present immensity and power. Aeriform matter at
tracts all bodies, of whatsoever form they may he.
Animal and vegetable life have originated from, and
are constantly preserved by, attraction. By this law,
the human race congregate together. All persons
of the same temperature attract each other. In
stinct is nothing but attraction. In mankind, virtue
attracts more powerfully than vice; in colours, white
more powerfully than black. The celestial bodies
increase in growth by this law, which belongs to
every part of the universal membraneﬁr and from the
inﬂuence of which may be said to result the harmony
of the spheres, for it preserves all bodies in their
proper places, and governs every motion of the vast
fabric,——0ur universal”
' “ [n the old Peruvian mines, skeletons of Indians are said to have
been found covered with ﬁbres of silver, and the inward parts ﬁlled
with lumps of the same metal. The original owners of these dry
bones were supposed to have perished hundreds of years before; as
their ﬂesh decayed, silver had grown around them, till when found
they looked like silver corpses.“
+ “The same law of mutual attraction, which we have before
traced to the utmost bounds of the solar system, prevails also in
spaces at a distance compared with which the orbit of Saturn shrinks
into a point."-- ll'hewell.
: in the Asiatic Researches, is the following passage of Sir William
484 'rnn DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Repulsion is acquired by matter upon entering
into the ﬂuid state of existence. With the com
Jones. “I have had occasion to touch on the Indian metaph) sies of
natural bodice, according to the most celebrated of the Asiatic schools.
from which the Pythagorean: are supposed to have borrowed msny of
their opinions; and, as we learn from Cicero, that the old sages of
Europe had an idea of centripetal force, and a principle of universal
gravitation (which they never indeed attempted to demonstrate), so 1
can venture to aﬂirm, without meaning to pluck a leaffrom the never
fading laurels of our immortal Newton, that the whole of his theology,
and part of his philosophy, may he found in the Vidas, and even in
the works of the Susis. The most subtile spirit,-which be suspected to
pervade natural bodies, and, lying concealed in them, to cause attrac
tion and repulsion; the emission, "ﬁewion, and refraction of light ;
ckrtricity, calg‘action, sensation, and muscular motion,—is described by
the Hindoos as a ﬁfth element, endued with those very powers; and
the Ve'das abound with allusions to aforce universally attractive, which
they chic/1y ascribe to the run, thence called Adytiya, or the Attractor ,
s name designed by the mythologists to mean the child of the Goddess
Aditi; but the most wonderful passage on the theory of attraction
occurs in the charming allegorical poem of Shirin and Ferhdd, or the
Divine Spirit and a human soul disinterestede pious: a work which,
from the ﬁrst verse to the last, is a blaze of religious and poetical ﬁre.
The whole passage appears to me so curious, that I make no apology
for giving you a faithful translation of it: "l‘here is a strong propen
sity which dances through every atom, and attracts the minutcst par
ticle to some particular object. Search this universe from its base to
its summit, from ﬁre to air, from water to earth, from all below the
moon to all above the celestial spheres, and thou wilt not ﬁnd a
corpuscle destitute ofthat natural attractability; the very point of the
ﬁrst thread, in this apparently tangled skein, is no other than such a
principle of attraction; and all principles beside are void of a real
basis : from such a propensity arises every motion perceived in
heavenly or terrestrial bodies: it is a dispoition to be attracted, which
taught hard steel to rush from its place and rivet itself on the magnet :
it is the same disposition which impels the light straw to attach itself
ﬁrmly to amher: it is this quality which gives every substance in
nature a tendency towards another, and an inclination forcibly direrted
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 485
mencement of repulsion, attraction, which hitherto
had exercised an uncontrolled power, becomes con—
densed in its sphere of action, carrying on electricity
with increased force, in a subordinate situation, viz.
at the north pole or lower extremity of the atomic
body.‘ Repulsion is a law exactly opposed in its
effects to attraction. Attraction is ever striving to
unite bodies: repulsion to set them at a distance.
Repulsion is a rejection or putting away of all matter
uncongcnial to the attracting body: it is an effort of
nature to preserve itself from an overplus or excess:
attraction, by drawing into a new focus, withincertain
prescribed compass or bounds, the rejected mate
rials, turns them to account as living machinery.
Thus are all the varied organs of animal bodies
formed, in succession, by the union of these two
forces.
Muscular motion is the second law of elasticity,
and belongs especially to the foetus. It consists
of the expansion of the elastic web, in the act of
to a determinate point.‘ These notions are vague, indeed, and un
satisfactory; but permit me to ask, whether the last paragraph of
Newton's incomparable work goes much farther? and whether any
subsequent experiments have thrown light on a subject so abstruse
and obscure?“
" "The attraction of cohesion or chemical attraction, in its most
energetic state, is not liable to be destroyed by gravitation: this power
only assists the agencies of other causes of degradation; attraction of
whatever kind tends, as it were, to rest, a sort of eternal sleep in
nature : the great antagonist power is heat.“-Sir Humphrey Davy.
486 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
throwing off its ﬂuid materials from the heart, by
the southern or upper pole, and the consequent
contraction and absorption of these materials at the
northern or lower extremity. Of muscular motion
and absorption in the foetal state of matter, it may
truly be said, that while the former is pushing, the
latter is pulling: so that one continued stream of
elastic matter is conveyed externally from the heart
over the whole surface, until it is absorbed at the
apex and returned inwardly in a new and purer
form to the centre, to promote its combustion and
support its growth.
Aeriform matter, in its non-elastic or disunited
state, combines all the four primary laws, attraction,
repulsion, gravitation, and deposition. The other
three, absorption, muscular motion, and locomotion,
it also possesses in its united or compound state,
which is the elastic. Attraction and repulsion have
been already described: I proceed to gravitation
and deposition.
Gravitation is the loss of the vital principle, or
change of matter, from an active to a latent state of
existence. By this law, matter loses light, heat, and
motion, and gradually attains a condition of perfect
darkness, coldness, and rest; by this deviation from,
or loss of, its primary qualities, matter is separated
from its original position, the top of the sphere, and
passes through every change in descending organi
‘_A‘.I.__
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 487
zation, from the perfect to the imperfect state, till it
reaches the point or apex of that sphere, where, by
the law of deposition, it is deposited to rest. The
point of deposition is analogous to the point of attrac
tion of a new sphere about to be formed from the
matter which has been rejected from the last. The
separation from perfect matter, at the summit of
every sphere, always precedes a new formation at its
apex; it is, in fact, the attraction for fresh matter at
the apex, which causes the rejection from the superior
part. This separation of particles is caused by their
deviation from a straight line, by which they are com
pelled to unite at the opposite extreme, and reascend
to the state ofpnrity, whence they have been ejected}
Life is the ascent or progression of a straight line,
ad inﬁnitum, death the deviation from it. (“ By sin
came dcath.”) Gravitation may be called the death,
or descent of matter, from its most highly organized,
to its least organized state, and attraction, the life
or ascent of matter, from this last to the ﬁrst or
perfect condition. Between the two points, every
gradation, in ascending or descending temperature,
must be progressively passed through in the repeated
° In the Hectopadee, p. 270, “the ancient and celebrated compo
sition of Veeshnu Sarma," is the following passage. “ The dissolution
ofa bod},~ forctellcth a new birlh; thus, the coming of death, which is
not to be passed over, is as the entrance into life."—lndian Antiquities.
488 THE mscovnnr on THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
action and reaction upon the vital principle!“ Thus,
" Organic forms with chemic changes strive,
Live but to die, and die but to revive;
Immortal matter braves the transient storm,
Mounts on the wreck unchanging but in form."
Dr. Darwin.
“ Perpetual mutation appears to constitute the
fundamental law of living nature; and it has been
farther decreed by the power which gave the ﬁrst
impulse of animation to this organized fabric, that
its movements and its powcrs shall be limited in
their duration, and that, even when they are not
destroyed by extraneous causes, after continuing
for a certain period, they shall come to a close.
Tbe law of Mortality, to which all the beings that
have received the gift of Life are subjected, is a
necessary consequence of the law of mutation."—i~
Death is but a change to a more perfect state of
‘ “ Every thing is produced from, and nourished by, every thing;
by the recombination of the particles of one body, when decom
pounded, a second body is generated; from this second, a third; from
this third, a fourth; and in the same manner to inﬁnity. ‘ The cor
ruption qf one substance,‘ observed Aristotle many ages ago, ‘is the
generation of another: and the generation of one substance is the comp—
tion of anal/Ier.‘ "—Mason Good.
'P Dr. Roget.
“ We are in the habit sometimes of contrasting the transient destiny
of man with the permanence of the forests, the mountains, the ocean.
with the unwearied circuit of the sun.
“ Not only the rocks and the mountains, but the sun and the moon
have the sentence ‘to end‘ stamped upon their foreheads. They enjoy
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 489
existence; it is the means by which matter under
goes puriﬁcation. All animals contained within the
universal foetus, being subject to gravitation, must
die ; but when that foetus enters upon its locomotive
state, each part of its frame will have become puri
tied and adapted to the new sphere. If then, it is
by these slow degrees, and through a multitude of
trials, man is destined to ascend to perfection,
they should be regarded but as the stepping-stones
to that ultimate goal, which will be the recompense
of every intermediate sorrow and suffering. “ Be ye
perfect, even as your Father which is in Heaven is
perfect l” and to those who remain “ faithful unto
death,” will be reserved the “ crown of life,” as an
eternal and imperishable portion. It is only by obe
dience to the laws of our Creator, that this future
state is attainable in a moral sense, and, physically
no privilege beyond man, except a longer respite. The ephemeron
perishes in an hour; man endures for his three score years and ten;
an empire, a nation, numbers its centuries, it may be its thousands of
years; the continents and islands which its dominion includes, have
perhaps their date, as those which preceded them have had; and the
very revolution of the sky, by which centuries are numbered, will at
last languish and stand still.
“ Perpetual change, perpetual progression, increase and diminution,
appear to be the rules of the material world, and to prevail without
exception.
“The smaller portions of matter which we have near us, and the
larger, which appear as luminaries at a vast distance, different as they
are in our mode of conceiving them, obey the same laws of motion;
and these laws produce the same results.“--lllr. Whewell, Bridgewatcr
Treatises. 6
490 THE mscovanr or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
speaking, this obedience is enforced by gravitation.
—It is written, “ He shall rule the nations with a
rod of iron;” and this rod of iron is the line of
universal gravitation, by which all motion is effected.
This most powerful law of matter was produced
from the commencement of all organization in
our universe. It was by gravitation that imperfect
matter was ﬁrst separated from perfection, in
order that, by passing through the three successive
periods of existence, it might become perfected
as one pure celestial being. By separation or
gravitation, matter was ﬁrst divided into three
forms, the solid, ﬂuid, and aeriform, united in
0110, which ﬁnally became perfected, as the ovum
of the universe: the materials of the ovum, by
the same law, again gravitating to form a foetus,
threefold in one as before, and being again the
separation of imperfect from perfect matter.
In ﬁne, this law of gravitation is of the highest
species of intellectual ingenuity, and descended
from the perfection of mechanical genius; it existed
prior to the creation of our universe, identiﬁed itself
with the primary motion of mattertherein, and is the
quality of all organization. \Vell, then, might the
poet exclaim,
“ Nature and Nature's laws lay hid in night,
God said let Newton be—and all was light !"
“When he (Newton) had caught sight of the
0R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAX. 491
law of universal gravitation, he traced it to its con
sequences with a rapidity, a dexterity, a beauty of
mathematical reasoning, which no other person
could; so that on this account, if there had been
no other, the establishment of the general law was
possible to him alone. He still stands at the head
of mathematicians, as well as of philosophical dis
coverers. But it never appeared to him, as it may
have appeared to some mathematicians, who have
employed themselves on his discoveries, that the
general law was an ultimate and suﬁicient prin
ciple; that the point to which he had hung his
chain of deduction, was the big/zest point in the
universe. Lagrange, a modern mathematician 0f
transcendent genius, was in the habit of saying, in
his aspirations after future fame, that Newton was
fortunate in having had the system of the world for
his problem, since its theory could be discovered
once only. But Newton himself appears to have
had no such persuasions, that the problem he had
solved was unique and ﬁnal; he laboured to reduce
gravity to some higher cause, and the forces of other
physical operations, to an analogy with those of
gravity; and declared that all these were but steps
in our advance towards a First Cause.“"" “ It was the
laws of motion,” said Dr. Crombie, “and not the
causes, which Newton professed to investigate. Of
' Mr. Whewell.
492 THE DISCOVERY or Tun VITAL PRINCIPLE,
the origin of these laws, how matter, for example,
gravitates, or how action and reaction are equal and
contrary, he was professedly ignorant.* When he
attempted conjecture he felt himself embarrassed.”
In Newton’s ﬁrst letter to Bentley, he indeed “allows
that matter might form itself into masses by the
force of attraction, and thus," says he “ might the
sun andﬁxed stars be formed, supposing the matter
were of a lucid nature. But how the matter should
divide itself into two sorts; and that part of it
which is ﬁt to compose a shining body should fall
down into one mass, and make a sun ; and the rest,
which is ﬁt to compose an opake body, should co
alesce, not into one great body, like the shining
matter, but into many little ones ; or if the sun at
ﬁrst were an opake body like the planets, or the
planets lucid bodies like the sun, how he alone
should be changed into a shining body, while all
they continue opake; or all they be changed into
opake ones, while he continued unchanged ; I do
not think explicable by mere natural causes, but am
forced to ascribe it to the counsel and contrivances
of a voluntary agent.”+
Locomotion, the seventh law, is acquired by aeri
form matter in its elastic state; gravitation belongs
’ “ Gravity is the tendency of matter to matter, and Newton
developed its laws, but the cause eluded his search.“—Crombi¢.
T Whewell.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 493
to it in the non-elastic condition, and is the law of
separation or death : locomotion is the reverse of this,
and may be termed the law of perfect life; for it is
the highest power matter is capable of attaining in
any sphere. Locomotion is produced by levity, gra
vitation by weight or density. The former always
precedes the latter, fora body must ascend cre it can
descend. Locomotion is produced by the purity of
matter, gravitation by its impurity. All beings, as
they become puriﬁed, rise in the scale of creation,
and increase in their locomotive powers. This
law is caused by the rejection from the system
of all matter which, if retained, would deprive the
locomotive animal of its buoyancy. A balloon rises
in the atmosphere by throwing out ballast, and
thus is made, by its levity, to rise above the ordinary
conﬁnes of matter, and tower over the whole visible
creation. Just so man, from the surface of his body
exhales the matter which would be destructive to his
elasticity, and keeps up his living locomotive powers.
Locomotion always producing gravitation, and gravi~
tation deposition: these laws must have preceded the
formation of our universe ;"“ in the third stage of
vitality must the Creator have himself existed when
He willed the production of the celestial sphere, and
' “ Plutarch and Stohzeus say, that Thales ﬁrst afﬁrmed the soul to
be aorouvqfov, a self-moving nature- Aristotle, that he calls it
:lvvpfixov, in respect to the motion it‘ gives to other things, in which
494 THE DISCOVERY or 'rns VITAL PRINCIPLE,
imparted motion or life to the seed whence it has
sprung. That the Deity does really exist exterior
to all matter, producing and reproducing perfect
beings, like unto himself, appears to me to be ca
pable of clear demonstration. This universe has,
indeed, been shewn to be a human fcetus; the sun,
its heart and centre; the planets, the several organs
produced from that centre; all together progressing
to form one perfect being of a celestial order of
creation—Man. This great end being accomplished,
a unity, absorption, or coalition, will ensue, when
the ftBtllS will emancipate itself from the universal
womb, and the latter will remain the imperishable
charcoal.
are included both parts of the deﬁnition of the Platonists, a substance
having within itself a power to move itselfand other thing: ; which Plato
argues to this effect: ‘the ﬁrst of motion: is that whereby a thing
moves itself; the second, that whereby it moves another; every thing
that mom itself livel; every living thing lives, because it moves ilself,‘
therefore the power of self-motion is the essence of that substance
which we call the soul, which soul is the cause of the ﬁrst grncration
and motion qftbings which are, were, and shall be; and of all their con
traries, as of all transmutation, the principle of motion, and therefore
more ancient than the body, which it moves by a second motion.‘ "
Thus the principle qfloromotian in the ovum of the universe was
latent or inactive; in the fetus it is active, but involuntary ;" in the
locomotive or fully perfected being, it will become also locomotive,
guided by the will alone.
' The heart “has nerves from the cardiac plexus, formed of
branches from the par vagum and great intercostal ; but these nerves
are not under the inﬂuence of the mind, the heart being a muscle of
involuntary motion.“—H00per's Vade .Vecum.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 495
Matter, being all of animal origin, must, in the
ﬁrst instance, have been of one of the following
characters—living or (what is commonly termed)
dead: it certainly could not have possessed all those
high qualiﬁcations it exhibits in the present day:
its only inherent quality must have been that of
friction, (else why the term diamond cut diamond?)
In this primitive dry pulverulent state it must have
been unpossessed of the cement or moisture neces—
sary to connect and unitc its several parts, like the
building materials of a house, a ship, a man, or a
horse, which may become mouldered to dust, and
be again cemented to form other machinery or cases
for different bodies. Friction or agitation, then,
being the only inherent quality of matter, would
cause heat, and heat moisture; consequently, the
atoms would begin to adhere together. Two atoms
adhering to each other would have double force:
thus attraction beginning, the two would accumulate
four, the four eight; and so on, until the mass
assumed the solid form, and became the perfectly
organized egg.*
Man errs in supposing that blind, or what is
generally considered inorganic, matter cannot or
ganize itself: that it has done so, may be proved
1’
‘-‘ “ Whatever is composed of part: must haVe existed in parts be
fore it became a whole."—- Dr. ('rombir.
KK
496 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
by an empty room, common rain-water, and a variety
of other ways. Life being the triumph of vital over
physical laws, and progressive, organization must
have commenced from the most simple, and been
carried on to its present complicated, state. Its
primary form being circular, (and it is well known
that a 'circle may be enlarged from a mere point
to inﬁnity,) we must admit that matter has ever been
and will ever continue to be. Power, extent or
volume, and organization, have been acquired by
unity and connexion. We have the same perfection
in a single atom as in the whole universe: but who
shall assert that one atom can possibly possess the
power of millions? One single solitary atom could
never be annihilated; but it could never, on the other
hand, extend itself into space, or become voluminous,
without some assisting power to extend it into a
form, or condense it into one entire centre. This
power is the innate principle of motion or life, which
produced the law of gravitation, the original impres
sion upon the matter forming our universe, of which
all the subsequent combinations, &c., are the neces
sary result.
All the varied motions of matter are produced
by contact. Organization is nothing more than
parts uniting together to form a whole; as, in
arithmetical progression, we ﬁnd developed, 1 . Unity.
2. Addition. 3. Subtraction. 4. Multiplication.
OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAX. 497
Such are the existing laws of nature. The beginning
is the end, and the end the beginning.
Matter has been originally of such a quality, that
organization was the necessary result :* it has
existed from all eternity, and will continue to exist
for ever. Animal life progresses from solidity to
ﬂuidity, from ﬂuidity to the aeriform state, the
compression of which produces elasticity, the most
powerful form of matter. All matter composing
machinery must be heated to a certain extent, to
render it elasticsf' When elastic, it becomes netted
together, forming a web or case of animated matter,
each particle or animal of the web being enclosed
or sheathed in iron. By the elastic or aerial power,
all matter is cemented into living machinery. The
sun, moon, and heavenly bodies,—the earth, sea,
skies,—the animal, vegetable, and mineral king
doms,—are all chained together by one universal
membrane of this elastic matter. Through the
elastic ﬂuid medium, or universal atmosphere, bodies
of a denser quality may pass or repass without
interruption. Light may traverse this vast universe,
' “ The living principle is not the result of organization, but the
cause of organization.“—Prout.
1' By the compression of this third form of matter, locomotion may
be carried on to any extent. The powerful law of compression has
commenced, and will continue until the whole of the materials of this
universe are changed, and the fetus acquires its third perfect and
celestial stage of existence.
498 THE DISCOVERY or The VITAL PRINCIPLE,
bending its course from world to world, and
enlightening every hemisphere through which it
passes. Without this elastic form of matter we could
have no life. It is owing to the elasticity of the
atmosphere, that planets revolve around planets,
and systems into systems run. It is owing to elasti
city that the world continues to increase and multiply
its stores, to replenish and keep up the living
system of animal and vegetable creation. It is by
the power of elasticity that animal machinery is
kept in a constant state of progression. Animal
life is one continued piece of mechanism, and elas
ticity may most truly be called the web of life,
for it encloses every atom or seed of vitality. But
for elasticity, how could our stately vessels move
upon the wide ocean? The proud waves them
selves are stayed by elasticity. It is by this power
that we have day and night, and that we and all
the other inhabitants of this globe are blessed
with heat and light.
The elasticity and non-elasticity of all bodies is
occasioned by the expansion and contraction of
MERCURY ! It is this substance which gives motion
or life to all bodies, and forms the vital principle
of every species of organizatiOn. As it rises or falls
in the scale of temperature, it gives life or pro
duces death. This is the material employed in our
Common thermometer, to indicate the changes which
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 499
are taking place in surrounding objects; but man
himself is thefaithful thermometeroflife, in which
the living moving mercury rises or falls, to indicate
the state of his health, or of the air which he
breathes: teaching him what food to take, or, what
to avoid, that his body may preserve its due balance,
and move with a steady and orderly pace, accord
ing to its proper or natural internal and external
temperature)“ Who shall determine the ultimate
consequence of neglecting to attend to the true
thermometer of nature? It is the substance in
question, Mercury, which is the elastic cement or
boundary that conﬁnes particle to particle, in the
same manner that common mortar conﬁnes the brick
of any building, until the dwelling or machine be
* There is always a limit to elasticity. Steam will not rise higher
than tWelve atmospheres when the boiler bursts. Matter is then
ejected and gravitzites; in other Words, loses its elasticity.
“ All saliva forms a scum at the temperature of212° at ﬁrst, but
ceases, or nearly ceases to do so, after it has boiled for some little
HINT—British and Foreign Review.
Salivationof alhip's crew by accident.—“ One of the medical com
missioners of the royal navy (Professor Burnett,) has given an ac
count of the whole crew ofa king's ship, amounting to two hundred
persons, who were affected with salivation, to a high degree, by the
bursting of some vessels containing quicksilver. Many lost their
teeth, and two died. All the live stock, consisting of pigs, goats,
sheep, cats, dogs, rats, and birds, were also put under its effects ; even
the decks of the ship were covered with a black powder. Several
tons of quicksilver were scattered about the ship, which, from
rolling about, became oxidized, and, it is supposed, affected the
atmosphere."
500 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
completely formed. When man takes mercury into
his stomach, the particles of his frame become
loosened by electricity, and the elastic living
cement is weakened or thinned of its due proportion.
The machine, by this means, loses its equilibrium,
and is separated or disunitcd into parts, until
eventually the whole fabric is dissolved. Were man
to stand upright after salivation, he would feel
the balance-wheel of life turn round like a cork
screw, and gravitate to the centre of his abdomen;
it would run down like the large weight of a clock
when over-wound up.
Mercury is the only metal which unites the solid,
the ﬂuid, and the aeriform states of matter in one,—
the elastic. In its condensed or contracted state, it
forms the leaden bullet; when ﬂuid, it is seen by us
rising or falling in our thermometer: but its most
expanded form may be said to be that of the uni
versal medium or atmosphere. In the non-elastic
state it descends from the white to the red, and
thence to the black lead, which is always found at
the bottom of the scale of life. All the elastic
forms of the metal arise up from thence to the perfect
quicksilver, or white (the top of the line), in regular
ascending gradations. At that point in the thermo
mometer—Man, mercury is ever in a boiling state,
producing life and animation in all surrounding
bodies.
OR, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 501
There are three successive stages of elasticity,
three co-cxistent onesofnon-elasticity; the former
being internal, the latter external to the machine,
and each alike necessary to the preservation of
the animal by which they are produced. These
three stages are those of the oval, the foetal, and
the locomotive life. That such is the fact may
readily be attested: I select the following instances
of the kind in question.
“ For the preservation of the immature seed,
nature has used many ingenious methods: some
are wrapped in down, as the seeds of the rose,
bean, and cotton plant; others are suspended in
a large air-vessel, as those of the bladder-sens,
staphylaaa, and pea."—Dr. Darwin.
“ The buds of the horse-chesnut are coated with
a viscid varnish, which is impenetrable to rain or
dew. Most of the other species of winter buds
are equally protected against evaporation from
within, and moisture from without, by their dense
shelly covering.”— Sir Anthony Carlisle, Philos.
Magazine, vol. XL, p. 41.
“ The ﬂy, when it commences laying the eggs,
is usually found to deposit them in clusters. In
most cases the eggs are left without any protec
tion, except that they are besmeared with a kind
of varnish, which is secreted and exuded at the
time of depositing; in the (estrus this varnish is
502 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
applied to the purpose of making the eggs adhere
to the hair of the animal on which the female
places them.
“ The method of clothing the eggs, as might be
at ﬁrst expected, differs in almost every kind of
insect; but all rival each other in the ingenuity
they display.
“ An insect of the beetle kind covers and pro
tects her eggs with a transparent membrane. One
kind of ﬂy, whose eggs are extremely brittle, pro
vides for their protection in a manner which is
truly astonishing. Its mouth is furnished with a
kind of double saw, with which it makes a longi
tudinal incision in some leaves of a kind of fir,
and having placed her eggs in it, in a single row
from top to bottom, she stops it up with a green
frothy ﬂuid, mixed with the minute fragments of
leaf detached by her saws. This composition,
when dry, becomes quite hard, and affords the
delicate eggs an excellent and ample protection.
A species of moth envelopes her eggs in a frothy
ﬂuid, which, when it dries, becomes remarkably
friable and hard, almost resembling glass; it is
insoluble in water, and hence it is calculated to
resist the weather for an unlimited period of time.
Some kind of moths again surround their eggs
with a kind of clothing, equally durable and im
pervious; it is composed of hair stripped from
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 503
their own bodies. In the article Entomology of
the London Encyclopaedia, this process is de
scribed in nearly the following words :——‘ \Vith
the material we have mentioned, namely, the hair,
which they pluck off from their own bodies, they
ﬁrst form a soft couch on the surface of the leaf;
they then place upon it successivc layers of eggs,
and surround and cover them with a similar
downy coating ; when the whole number is depo
sited, they cover the surface with a roof of hairs,
which cannot be too much admired, for those used
for the interior of the nest are placed without
order, but those employed externally are arranged
with as much art and skill as the tiles of a roof,
and as effectually keep out the water, one layer
resting partly on the next, and all having the same
direction, so that the .whole resembles a well
brushed piece of shaggy cloth orfur. When the
mother has ﬁnished this labour, which often occu
pies twenty-four hours, and sometimes even twice
that period, her body, which was before ex
tremely hairy, is almost wholly naked; she has
stripped herself, to supply clothing for her off
spring, and having performed this last duty, she
expires.”
Of elasticity in its second or foetal state, the
silkworm affords a most interesting specimen.
The following curious account is given by Mr.
504 THE mscoveav or ran VITAL museums,
Maurice, in the Indian Antiquities, of the manu
facture of silk.
“ The little animal, the bombyx, that produces
this delicate thread, is scarcely less a wonder in
the world of natural history, than its production
formerly was in the commercial world. The
body of the little insect, a species of phalzena, is
composed of a great number of elastic annuli
closely united or interwoven with one another,
and its heart, or rather a series ofhearts connected
together, cxtends the whole length of its body.
The heating of this chain of hearts, or rather, to
speak more philosophically, the motion of systole
and diastole, may be very distinctly perceived;
and to observe the manner in which the vital ﬂuid
passes from one to the other, forms a very curious
and interesting spectacle. They were doubtless
intended to accelerate the circulation of the ﬂuids
through the body. In the cavities of the belly
adjoining to the ventricle, the microscope dis
covers an inﬁnite number of small vessels, forming
a. long bag or canal, in which is deposited the
glutinous liquid whence the silk is formed, and
these vessels communicating with a thousand
winding meanders with the mouth, the little
creature is enabled thereby to collect together
and discharge, at pleasure, their contained ﬂuids,
which are hardened by the air into that delicate
o
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 505
sort of ﬁbre of which the web or ball consists.
This little ball is the last effort of the expiring
insect, whose short period, at least in that state of
existence, is a year; and it is fabricated at the
expense of its being, as a worm; for, having form
edits nidus, it becomes metamorphosed into an
aurelia, and continues in that state, without any
signs of life or motion, till in a few days, if not
destroyed, as they generally are, to prevent the
ball being injured, it becomes a butterﬂy, and
makes its way out ofthe silken sepulchre, in which
it lay as it were interred, into ﬁelds of tether.
These balls, when taken from the mulberry tree
from which they are suspended, are generally the
size of a pigeon’s egg, are of a yellow colour, and
of an admirable construction, and are said to be
composed of threads, spun out by the labour of
the indefatigable architect, of many hundred yards
in length:”——vol. i., p. 735.
In the fatal or second stage of existence, as
well as in the ﬁrst or oval, there is, we ﬁnd, a non
elastic case formed for the protection of the
animal during its progress or change to a more
perfect state. This web is produced at the ex
pense of the life of the mechanic itself; for when
that elasticity which was the stay or support of
its internal fabric (its vital principle) becomes
external to the machine, it causes the opposing or
506 THE mscovanv or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
gravitating principle (death) to ensue in the
animal itself.
The human heart is the only perfect machine
of the foetal life : from this machine all others are
constructed.* From the primitive egg of pure
unadulterated diamond has been produced that
delicate. most reﬁned, and perfect living mechanic,
the little silkworm. From this little worm, all
heart, all love, all feeling, has been produced the
immense and wonderful universe, with all its
continuous chain or links of animated structure.
From its own body has this little worm spun
out the line which ﬁrst formed the canopy of
heaven, the silken bed on which its ashes would
hereafter repose. It was this perfect little insect
which produced from its tears the ﬁrst pure crystal
drop of water :T to its sympathy and love man
' The Indian rubber is the substance which most nearly approaches
to that of the human heart. This has lately been discovered to be in
some degree analagous to silk.
“Silk, which is the spittleI of a worm, has its good or bad qualities
from the nourishment the worm receives from a good or bad leaf.“
'l' This is always found in the human heart. (See note, p. 416 of
this work.)
I The term spittle is improper. The glutinous ﬂuid from which
silk is produced is secreted in two canals, which run along the back
ofthc worm, and after making sinuosities near the stomach, terminate
at the mouth of an extremely slender duct, (or, according to some
naturalist, by two ducts,) from which this peculiar ﬂuid is discharged
by the muscular efforts of the worm in the act of spinning."-—Philoso
p/iiml 'l'ruusm‘lums.
0R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 507
is himself indebted for an existence. It was this
little worm which spun the threads forming the
ﬁrst matting and downy texture of his bed.
From the mixture of its ashes has been wrought
that entire web or continuous wrapper which
encloses and protects every organ of his wonderful
machine. (See note page 416.)
The skin of every animal is the non-elastic
covering of the locomotive life. It varies from
the softest and most silky texture to the most
dense and biittle. The higher the state of
organization, the more pure and perfect this out
ward covering or skin. Of all the specimens of
this third state, that presented by the human race
is the most perfect and wonderful; yet even this
varies with locality and circumstances, from the
black or tawny African to the delicate European.
In the lower classes of creation the differences
are still more strongly marked: witness the hip
popotamus, the elephant, the various ﬁnny tribes
and feathered races, the sloth, the beaver, and
other animals which burrow in the bowels of the
earth. What is then the cause of all these varied
gradations? And how is the non-elasticity or
skin of man connected with the subject of which
I am now treating?
Locomotion, I have shewn to be effected by
the rejection of all non-elastic matter from the
508 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
machine, or elastic portion. The former consti
tutes the descending, the latter the ascending
creation. Thus, then, as man becomes puriﬁed
and rises in strength and power, he rejects, from
the surface of his body, a proportionate supply of
non-elastic matter to form a lower creation. This
rising again in the scale produces in turn all the
inferior tribes: and thus we behold elasticity in
every form and shape, until man, who has gradually
stripped from his fabric its warm and downy
covering for the production of rising generations,
is eventually compelled to borrow from them arti
ﬁcial robes to supply his own necessities Thus,
from the fall of Adam, has Man, like the insect,
been doomed to labour and die for the sake of
perpetuating his race: it is he who appropriates
to his own private uses all the visible creation,
and repays the loan with the necessary interest.
It is in the third, locomotive life, that the sex
becomes developed. Upon the surface of this
earth, accordingly, we ﬁnd animals divided into
two sexes, male and female. But this creation is
external, belonging to the inferior life or machine:
it is the internal creation which forms the ascend
ing or superior life of the fabric. The former is
the non-elastic, the latter the elastic state. Elas
ticity unites the sexes, non-elasticity divides them.
God must have united in His perfect frame both
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 509
sexes at that time when He said, “Let us make
man in our image after our likeness, and let them
have dominion, &C. (Gen. i., 26.) So God created
man in His own image, in the image of God
created He him, male and female created He
them.”
The system of man presents to view two per
fect frames, united by the spine, (the nerves of
sensation and volition.) It is the ofﬁce of the
former to receive every impression in a passive
manner: these may be termed the feminine
nerves. By gradual progression through six
distinct stages, these impressions are transmitted
to the brain, and thence continued by six corre
sponding stages through the other half of the
nervous system (the masculine) by the organs of
volition, or active nerves. The nerves are, in
fact, two perfect frames united in one: and it
may here be mentioned that when Adam had been
thrown into a deep sleep, Eve, the ﬁrst woman of
the external creation, was separated from his body.
(Gen. ii., 21, 22.)
The substance of every animal is the same: its
quality of three kinds, diamond, iron, and carbon:
its genders, masculine, feminine, and neuter. The
masculine gender is the iron, the feminine the
diamond, the neuter the carbon or latent life.*
’ Professor Sprengell, in bi! “ Institutrs 13f Physiology,“ stated,
510 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
Man ﬁrst existed in the neuter gender as in Eden,
ere he was doOmed to labour and death. Secondly,
in the masculine as Adam, after Eve had been
separated from his body: and lastly in the feminine
gender, as Eve.‘ In the non-elastic life, the
genders are separated; in the elastic, unitedrl' The
perfect man is formed from one pure substance
of a threefold nature, Adamus. He unites in
himself the three forms of matter or genders in
one—the elastic, the perfect solid, the perfect
ﬂuid, and the perfect aeriform. “For there are
three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the
“ that everything in the human body, is governed by Polar iri/Iurncr,
and by the laws ofanlagnnism: ; that man is in a state ofpositivc eler
h'irily; that his body is formed chieﬂy of oxygen; while the female
body is in a state of mgative electricity, with a superabundant quanlity
ofhydrngm in the composition of its solids and ﬂuids."
“In Dr. Darwin's Botanic Garden (vol. i. 395,in anole,) is the follow
ing account of the vulfisncria as it has been observed in the river Rhone.
They have roots at the bottom of the Rhone. The ﬂowers of the
jemale plant float on the surface of the water, and are furnished with
an elastic spiral stalk, which extends or contracts as the water rises or
falls; this rise or fall, from the torrents which flow into the river,
often amounting to many feet in a few hours. The ﬂowers of the
male plant are produced under water; and as soon as the fecundating
farina is mature, they separate themselves from the plant; rise to the
surface, and are wafted by the air, or home by the currents, to the
female ﬂowers.“—Puby's Natural Theology.
' “ The larva is the second state. ' ‘ " Ithas no sex, or at least none
has hitherto been distinguished, the development of the sex ofinsects
being conﬁned to the state of image or winged insect."
1‘ " There is neither male nor female; for ye are all one in (‘hrist
Jesus."—Gnl. iii. 28.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 5H
Word,‘ and the Holy Ghost: and these three are
one. And there are three that bear witness in
earth; the spirit, and the water, and the l: load:
and these three agree in one,” (I John, v., 7.)
In allusion to the Author of this universe, I
shall not presume to apply either the masculine
or feminine gender: but I do assert, without
hesitation, that the celestial parent “in whom
we live, and move, and have our being," unites
both these genders in one perfect frame, the
elastic.
There can be but one perfect man on the surface
of every sphere: that one being always produced
in ascent from the direct line upwards. Christ
was the most perfect man of the present foetal
sphere, our earth: he united the nature of God
with that of man in his own frame—the elastic
with the non-elastic. He was the most perfect
child born: the materials forming his inferior
or terrestrial fabric, and those of his superior or
celestial, being equally poized, his body and
mind gradually grew up to maturity, perfect in
height, in width, and temperament, without
development of passion or feeling of resentment
" It is the second person in the Trinity (the Word) which corre
sponds to the ﬂuid or active state of matter, by means of which God
causes this universe to increase in size, and work onwards to its per
fect or locomotive state of existence.
L L
512 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
towards any human being. Thus constituted,
and brought into the world at his regular and
predestined period, his sole thirst was knowledge.
From a child we ﬁnd him attending to, watching,
aud conversing with, all the wise men of the age
in which he lived. Being so perfectly organized
himself, his judgment, and comparison of
objects, was most correct. His Almighty Father
did not permit him to become degenerated: he
suffered on the cross at the age of thirty-six
years, in the prime of life.
Perfect man must always be the true God or
monarch of his own individual sphere. It has
already been seen that Adam wm the perfect
man of the terrestrial ovum, (page 233): he was
the last being produced from the internal earth,
and lord over the whole creation. That there
was a succession of animals prior to the
formation of Adam, is attested for us by the
Scriptures. Adam was created in the image of
God, and Eve afterwards formed from his body.
Here then was the ﬁrst instance of a separation
in matter; and subsequently Adam and Eve, being
rejected from the terrestrial paradise, became
subject to death, (see pages 234-236.) The pro
pagatiouby separation then commenced, by which
the position of the garden of Eden may be
identiﬁed with the interior of our earth, as gene
5
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 513
ration by separation always belongs exclusively
to the external portion, or membrane, of matter——
the non‘elastic state, (see page 246.) The dc
scending creation, from Adam to Noah, occupied
2000 years: it must therefore have been 4-000
from the origin of life in the ovum, at the time
when the ﬂood took place: for the ascent is equi
valent to the descent in all things. From Noah,
2000 years more of ascending creation were
completed at the birth of the perfect individual,
Jesus Christ, (who, as in the instance of Adam,
did not enter into life by the ordinary mode of
propagation, being produced on the direct line
upwards from the internal earth.) From the birth
of Christ, 2000 years more have not yet expired:
when these are accomplished, the world will
have undergone another change, and entered
upon its locomotive period of existence. The
perfect man of the locomotive earth will be the
future Jesus Christ, the risen Deity. It is the
last perfect being of the internal sphere who is
always the cause of the descending creation:
who, in other words, may be said to unite the
elastic to the non-elastic life, by forming, in his
own person, the link of union. The imperfect
generations (external) being those from Adam
to Noah: the perfect (or internal) from Noah to
Jesus Christ: the imperfect (external again)
514 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
from Jesus Christ to the future Noah ;' by the
preservation of whom will be eventually produced
the perfect Deity of the locomotive life, in ascent
from the direct line upwards.
Christ was, therefore, the second Adam. Adam
was the lord of the primary earth, or egg: Christ
that of the secondary earth, or foetus. Adam was
the liberator of the ﬁrst creation—Christ that of
the second: the persons are the same, the stages
of life exhibiting them alone are different. Thus
the minute man liberates the whole internal race,
for the purpose of building up the entire machine
by the deposition of himself and successors as
seed for a new generation of an improved species.
From Adam until the birth of Christ, the bulk
of the earth augmented; but by the ascension of
Christ to the perfect point of matter, (the moon,
or brain,) caused by his rejection from the lower
part of the sphere, (or earth,) a mutual oppression
has commenced, and gravitation been the result
to both. This gravitation will be continued
' " Other foundation can no man lay, than that is laid, which is
Jesus Christ.“--l Cor. iii. ll.
“ Ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow-citizens with
the saints, and of the household of God ; and are built upon the foun~
dation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the
chief corner-stone: in whom all the building, ﬁtly framed together,
groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord: in whom ye also are
builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit."—
Ephe. ii. 19-22.
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 515
until the head or superior (the celestial) part of
the sphere, becomes united to the body or inferior
(the terrestrial.) At the former, enthroned in
majesty, the ascended Deity awaits but his ap
pointed time, when, the whole fmtal creation
having been made perfect and gathered into his
lunar sphere, Christ will descend and bring his
saints with him, as foretold by the Scriptures.
Then will commence the non-elasticity of the loco
motive being, by which all the impure shall be
separated from the pure, and the Saviour of man
will govern the whole creation by His Almighty
power.
All things being material, God must Him
self be composed of material substance."E Man
being created in the image of his Maker, justiﬁes
the supposition that the Author of Life is Himself
a human being: in other words, the perfect man:
His body,— composed of the purest diamondﬂ- His
' “ That something must have existed from eternity is self-evident;
and what this something is, constitutes the question between the
Theist and the Atheist. The one asserts the eternity of matter; the
other that of an Intelligent First Cause, the Author of all existence."
—-Dr. Crombie‘s 1Vaturul Theology.
‘9 “ Dr. Smith says, that the word mostly used by the Celts for the
Supreme Being, was Dia or Dhia, which, in the oblique case, has De
and Dhc; that of this the Esus or Hesus, said to have been Worshipped
by the Druids, seems only to have been a corruption; and the 8:0;
and Deus of the Greeks and Latins were manifestly derived from
it; that the Dhia or Dia of the (‘elts is the same as the lah of the
Hebrews."-Higgins‘s Celtic Druids, p. 198.
516 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
blood, of the clearest and most pellucid water:
His organs alone being perfectly formed and arte
rialized,’IE His eye is the purest crystal, His ear
the only correct drum,-it being extended by the
perfectly elastic matter. He alone can hear all,
see all, know all! He alone, of all beings, can
breathe the pure oxygen—His whole body being
formed from the spotless essence of all matter
in the ascending scale. From the most minute
atom this exalted being has risen and progressed
in size and power, until He has attained His
present state—all purity! all wisdom! all love!
He must be the primitive fountain of all excel
lence, the source of all love; not love for Himself
alone, but for the whole human race whom He has
produced. He is the Authorofall, andthePreserver
of all. It is He who exists on the extreme conﬁnes
ofmatter, to uphold, balance, andguide the amount
" Take, as examples of the human nature of the Deity, the follow
ing passages:
“ The Lord liveth.“— Psalm xviii.,46. “ He walketh in the cirruit
of heaven."—Job, xxii., 14. “And God heard."——Gm. xxi., 1’7.
“ And God said.“—Gen. i., 3. “ And God saw."—Gen. i., 10.
“ His eyes behold, His eyelids try the children of men."-—Psalm xi., 4.
“His countenance.“—-Psulm xi., 7. “His ears."—Psalm xviii., 6.
" Hand of God."--Job, xxvii., ll. “He rested on the seventh day
from all His work which He had made."-—Gen. ii., 2. “ The Lord
awaked as one out of sleep."—Psalm lxviii., 65. There are many
others, which it is unnecessary to detail.
0R, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 517
of the vast sum of human machinery. “ Thus the
knowledge and the agency of the Divine Being
pervade every portion of the universe, producing
all action and passion, all permanence and change.
The laws of nature are the laws which He, in his
wisdom, prescribes to His own acts; His universal
presence is the necessary condition of any course
of events, His universal agency the only origin
of any efﬁcient force.“
Having Himself passed through every grada
tion in ascending and descending organizationj
the Supreme Being must have acquired in
His own person, by the labour he has under
gone, the experience and power, wisdom and
goodness, which he virtually possesses :-His
wisdom being the knowledge of Himself! Having
arrived at the extreme boundary or verge of all
organization, the summit of perfection in His
sphere, He stands upright at the head ofHis own
creation, alllight! all perfectibility! The original
sample of that moral and intellectual beauty,
which Adam presented in the fair garden of
Eden ere he descended from His perfect nature,
' Professor Whewell, Bridgewater Treatises.
+ The Vedantﬁ philosophers teach that “ God exists in millions of
forms, from the ant to llramha, the grandfather of the gods, as
one moon is seen at once in twenty different pans of watcr."—Ward‘s
History, Literature, and Religion ofthe Himloos.
518 THE mscovnnv or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
the Deity must, like our ﬁrst parent, have
been primarily called Adam,‘ or Adamus. Like
him, the monarch of all He surveyed by land
as well as sea, He presided in His own person
at the surface of His individual sphere, (which
sphere comprises all things visible and invisible.)
But man, in the present state of creation, is only
the most perfect animal or walking vegetable;
the nervous ﬂuid being the internal matter pre
pared and tempered sufﬁciently to extend and ﬁll
up the mould ormachine forthe ultimate perfection
of the whole human race. The Deity, therefore,
by having Himself attained the most perfect state,
knows how, and by what means, He can rege
nerate and bring to perfection all the lower races
of animals which have been produced from His
own body. The sphere of the perfect man com
bines every other living animal ; He unites them
all in His own wondrous fabric. There are the
animals internal, and the animals external: those
internal are of the organic or elastic tribe, those
which are external of the inorganic or non-elastic.
There are but two modes of propagation, as I
have elsewhere stated: the one by the external
" “ The name Adam may be traced to the Sanscreet root, Adi/n. or
lheﬁrst."—Maurice's Indian Antiquiliu.
Adam in Hebrew denotes “ a man."—Sur Pictorial Bible.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 519
membrane, the other by the internal ovum :* in
the ﬁrst case, it is by many eggs, in the last, by one
only. By the former, man produces varieties of
his kind, by the latter, his own peculiar species.
This universe, having originated in an ovum,
must have been produced by one of the above
methods : it must have been formed in the centre,
or at the surface of a sphere: in either case,
have issued directly from the body ofthe Creatortf
By the gradual dissolution or decomposition of
His own body or fabric, the Perfect Man is pro
ducing a two-fold order of creation: By the
internal ovum (our universe) He is forming a
human being after His own likeness, in whose
frame will be united every living animal. This
perfect being is His own son, Jesus Christ, the
Saviour of man.
" See pages 198, 236-%l, 340-346, 4'76.
1‘ “ The egg from which Osiris proceeded was the universe, but
that universe itself had proceeded from (‘neph. Cneph signiﬁed the
Creator of the universe."-Pictorial Bible, vol. i. Dcut. 0. iv.
1 “ We know of no instance of the formation of animal matter but
through the medium of an animal being. And, as no animal, by the
hypothesis, existed, let the atheist explain to us the process, according
to any chemical or mechanical law, by which animal matter was gene
rated without the aid of animal substance. ‘ Brute matter,‘ says
Voltaire, ‘ may be animalized. Milk, bread, and wine, may be con
verted into the substance ofa man, having life, motion, and sensi
bility.‘ This is true; but to what purpose is the remark, as applied
to the question of man‘s origin! Can this transmutation be effected,
but by the medium of animal operations? Is not the previous existence
ofan animal necessary in order to produce the change!“-—Dr. Crombie.
520 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
By the other or external mode of propagation
(the surface) consisting of the matter which is
always gravitating towards His apex, (the extreme
point of descent in organization,) God is producing
from the non-elastic materials rejected by Himself,
a new foundation or base to His own sphere, (the
sphere which he now moves upon, and which will
hereafter become that of His son and successor.)
“Why, seeing times are not hidden from the
Almighty, do they that know Him not see His
days?” (Jo/1, xxiv. 1.) Each stage of existence
has its determined period; and the present Deity of
man attained his summit offoetal organization at
a time which, in relation to the vast fabric over
which He presides, corresponded with that year
which gave terrestrial being to the Deity of our
own sphere, Jesus Christ. Since then He has been
gradually renouncing his existence: his organi
zation has been on the decline: and it will con
tinue to be so, until the arrival of an important
period predicted by the Scriptures, when, from
the dissolution of His immortal nature, shall have
been perfected a new succession or race of animal
creation in the subordinate scale of existence, but
of an improved species. As the body of the
Supreme Being becomes gradually decomposed,‘
' I must here be understood to allude to the descending or non
r-lastic life of the Deity, not to His ascending or elastic nature.
()R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 521
this new generation is progressively arising in
ternally from the base of His sphere; and when
He has undergone an entire dissolution, and been
wholly gathered into the internal fabric, a new
base will be formed in progression beneath the last,
from the body of the risen Deity,—His successor,
(or Saviour of man,) who will then have attained
the zenith of His organization. For this purpose
it is that the Deity is undergoing death: the
death of the imperfect, to bring all things to
their perfect and pure state. The just for the
unjust, God is cruciﬁed, by his own will, for the
redemption of the human race.
Let not man then imagine that this minute
speck of creation, Earth, is alone blessed with a
universal Creator, Preserver, and Saviour. Allthe
parts or portions of creation, visible and invisible,
are God’s: all are formed from Him by His own
substance. He is all, and in all. Each minute
sphere is but typical of the larger and larger
ones to which it belongs. The whole celestial
fretus is but a part of the Deity; and each portion,
internal as well as external, a representation of
Himself. It was God who Himself rose to per
fection in Adam, and then descended unto Noah:
For what did He descend? But that He might
also ascend? Thus Christ shone forth a reve
lation of the Deity. “ God is not the God of the
522 THE DISCOVERY or TIIE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
dead, but the God of the living.” (zllatt. xxii., 32.)
Therefore, did Christ ascend on high, to lead
“captivity captive.“ Each part is a portion of
the living whole; and the terrestrial machine
would be as incomplete without the patriarchs
and their successors, as the universe without its
organ, Earth. Man works on, and will work on,
for ever: he is at once the creator, the pre
server, and the destroyer. In him is contained
the seeds of past, present, and future generations.
He is the author of all, and will be the destroyer
of all: the same man who produces is always
destined to destroy his sphere for the preservation
of himself and kindredrl' “ Thou, Lord, in the
"‘ God “ bath in these last days spoken unto us by His Son, whom
he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the
worlds; who, being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of
his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when
he had by himselfpurged our sins_szit down on the right hand ofthe
Majesty on high.“—-ch. i. 2, 3.
“Who is the image of the invisible God, the ﬁrstborn of every
creature: for by Him were all things created, that are in heaven, and
that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones. or
dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by
Him and for Him : and He is before all things, and by Him all things
consist. And He is the head of the body, the church: who is the be
ginning, the ﬁrstborn from the dead; that in all things He might have
the preeminence."—Colos. i. 15-18.
t “ But some man will say, How are the dead raised up? and with
what body do they come?
“ Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die:
“ And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 523
beginning hast laid the foundations of the earth;
and the heavens are the works of thine hands.
They shall perish; but thou remainest: and they
shall be, but bare grain; it may chance of wheat, or of some other
grain:
“ But God giveth it a body as it hath pleased Him, and to every
seed His own body.
“ All ﬂesh is not the same ﬂesh: but there is one kind of ﬂesh of
men, another flesh of beasts, another ofﬁshes, and another of birds.
“ There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial; but the glory
of the celestial is (MIC, and the glory ofthe terrestrial is another.
“ There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and
“other glory of the stars: for one star diﬂ'ereth from another star
in glory.
“ So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption;
it is raised in incorrnption:
“ It is sown in diahonour; it is raised in glory: It is sown in weakness;
it is raised in power .
“ It is sown a natural body,- it is raised a spiritual BODY. There is a
natural body and there is a spiritual body.
“ And so it is written, The ﬁrst man, Adam, was made a living soul:
the last Adam was made a quiekening spirit:
“ Howbeit that was not ﬁrst which is spiritual, but that which is
natural; and afterward that which is spiritual.
“ The ﬁrst man is qfthc earth, earthy ,- the second man is the Lord
from heuven.‘
“ As is the earthy, such are. they also that are earthy: and as is the.
heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.
“ And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also hear
the image of the heavenly.
“Now this I say, brethren, that ﬂesh and blood cannot inherit the
kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit interruption.
“ Behold, I shew you a myslt’ry,‘ we shall not all SLEEP, but we
shall all be changed,
“ In a moment, in the twinkling qfan eye, at the last trump: for
' (So that the ﬁrst man of the new earth will be Christ himself.)
6
524 THE mscovsnr or THE VITAL museums,
all shall wax old as doth a garment, and as a
vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall
be changed ; but thou art the same, and thy years
shall not fail."-—Heb. i., 10-12.
Locomotive man always maintains the highest
position in the sphere of life; in relation to my
sphere, (for each man has a sphere of his own,) such
is then my own present position. I therefore iden
tify myself with the individual whose history has
been given in the preceding pages. I am conscious
of my existence in a sphere, each part or portion
of which is more or less connected with myself.
Between this elevated point in which I am deve
loped, and the freezing point or apex ofmy sphere,
all the parts or portions of myself must be ascend
ing and descending. By the external membrane,
I am even now falling towards the apex, by the
internal line rising again in a new form towards
my present locomotive position on the globe. All
the intervening points are either my ancestors 0r
successors in the scale. They all belong to me,
and are necessary to my existence and reproduc
the. trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptiblc,
and we shall he changed.
“ For this rov'ruptible must put on inrorruption, and this mortal must
put on immortality.
“ So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption. and
this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to
pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in Victory,“—
Corinthizmr, Epistle l, xv., 35-54.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 525
tion, inasmuch as I am necessary to that of a
higher sphere than my own. Each successive
being produced in this, my external sphere, marks
the progression of its internal organization, and
gradual ascension in the scale of life.
The history of man has never yet been geolo
gically written. It has been truly said that no
two stones are alike: an observation which applies
very forcibly to the human race. Man’s materials,
size, qualities, and duration, are all dependent
upon his speciﬁc gravity, or peculiar situation
upon the earth of which he constitutes the
crust. He may justly be styled “ a living stone.”
being employed by the one grand Architect in
erecting a holy temple unto Himself.‘
The most perfect man or Deity is He to whose
sphere every other sphere belongs. He is always
produced at the true poles of the surface at a deﬁ
‘ “Behold, I lay in Zion for afnundation a stone, a tried stone,
a precious corner-stone, a sure foundation."—lsaiah, xxviii., 16.-—
(See Daniel, ii., 31, 8:0.)
Speaking of the tribe of Joseph, “ From thence is the shepherd,
the stone of I:rael."—Gcn. xlix., 24.
“ The stone which the builders refused is become the head-stone of
the corner. This is the Lord‘s doing; it is marvellous in our eyes.
This is the day Wilith the Lord hath made; we will rejoice and be
glad in it."-Psalm cxviii., 22-24.
“ To whom coming, as unto a living :tunc, disallowed indeed of men,
but chosen ofGod, and precious, ye also, as lively stones, are built
up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to oﬂ'er up spiritual sacri
ces, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ."—l Prim ii. 4, 5.
526 THE nrscovsnv or ran VITAL PRINCIPLE,
nite season, and his presence marks the ascending
organization of the three periods,—oval, foetal, and
locomotive, in His sphere. (Of this we have in
stances in Adam and Jesus Christ? But there are
gradations in perfection as well as imperfection:
and internally as well as externally, between these
deﬁnite points in time and space, are developed
less perfect beings or branches, ﬁlling up the
outlines of organization. Each intervening point,
between the apex and top of the line, has two
corresponding ones on the surface. As the ex
' “ A great man is a result, and not a cause; he is created, if we
may so speak, by the spirit of the age which he embodies and repre
sents. But on this subject we cannot do better than quote the words
of Victor Cousin: ‘ A great man, whatever may be the kind of his
greatness, whatever the epoch of the world in which he makes his
appearance, comes to represent an idea, such an idea, and not any other
idea, at the precise time when that idea is worth representing, and
neither before it nor after it; consequently he appears when he oughr
to appear, and he disappears when nothing is left for him to do: he is
born and he dies in due season. When nothing great is to be done,
the existence of a great man is impossible. In fact, what is a great
man? He is the representative ofa power not his own; for all power
merely individual is pitiful, and no man yields to another man: he
yields only to the representative of a general power. When, there
fore, no such general power exists, or when it exists no longer, when
it fails or falls into decay, what strength can its representative possess !
Hence also no human power can cause a great man to be born or die
before his hour is come; it cannot be displayed; it can neither be
advanced nor put back; for he existed only because he had his work
to do, and he exists no more, only because nothing is left for him to
do : and to wish to continue his existence would be to wish to continue
a part which has been acted to the end and exhaustch "--l"or¢ign
Quarterly Review.
OR, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 527
ternal points descend in the scale, the internal
one rises or ascends, till it ﬁnally attains the
summit of all organization in its sphere_the brain,
or moon. (See the diagram, page 274.) Upon
examination it will be found that it is the twelfth
sphere in which the machine or steam-vessel
never fails to burst open, when the pure aerated
invisible spirit—Man, escapes to another and
loftier region, where he is united to his fore
fathers; while the terrcstrial machine or body
becomes prostrate for the prepagation or pro
duction of his successors.
The life of man, therefore, depends not, as gene
rally supposed, on the outward shell or skin, the
earth's surface: but upon that internal line ofascent
which is regulated by it. As the surface rises or
falls, so does the internal line become accelerated
or retarded in its progress.
Man is both a freeholdcr and a leaseholder: a
freeholdcr by virtue of his celestial or elastic life,
a leaseholder by the terrestrial or non-elastic: by
the ﬁrst he should ascend, by the last descend, ad
inﬁnitum. Whatever has lived once must live for
ever. Each race of animals, having asphere of its
own to range in, should form to itself an upright
and more perfect generation from the direct line
upwards: thus the celestial man, or Deity, be
ginning at the bottom of the line, must gradually
MM
525 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
be rising up to his native abode in the universe: *
his relation to the sphere on which he moves is
that of a parent to its offspring: one complete
species or race is contained in that sphere, which
is a successive identiﬁcation of himself: from
ﬁrst to last, in either case, the succession or
chain remains unbroken, and each link will even
tually be recognised in its proper order. Hence
we may discover the origin ofﬁlial love, ancestorial
pride, patriotism, and religion :1- for, from him
self, man is led upwards to the contemplation of
his Creator, by a continued chain of reasoning,
drawn from internal and external evidence.
God being Himself the architect of this vast
creation, we are His people and daily labourers,
and must do the work according to His plan.
Man, however, has unfortunately forgotten God
and His commands, and thinks only of himself.
By the increase of his mechanical power he has
formed new plans quite contradictory and inferior
to the mighty plan of God: thus is he ﬁghting
against his Maker,—his father, and only friend!
an error which has been creeping on ever since
the ﬂood, and has now become one mighty vice:
‘ -" Man is in no wise perfect, but a particle of perfection."
Cirrysippus.
1- All religions haverinanated and progressed from one pure faith:
all languages from one root.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 529
so that there are two powerful opposing elements,
(God and His children,) each acting from the
strongest motives?“ were it possible to separate
them, all matter would become reduced to its
primitive state, and this creation would be anni
hilated. God, however, has fought His own
battles, and triumphed in His own person over
the dark physical laws of matter. He has
emancipated Himself from darkness, and arisen to
a state of perfect light, seeing all things, knowing
all things, and possessing power to enforce the
execution of His supreme will. He is all wisdom,
purity, and love! On the other hand, the minute
man is so involved in error, that, but for the
manifest love of Almighty God in making known
His powerful laws at this moment, the whole
race of human beings must inevitably be de
stroyed, and buried inaheap of ruins. \Vithouta
strenuous effort on the part of each individual,
the whole universe would be plunged into one
general scene of darkness and misery, by a pre
mature destruction of this, our planet. To die,
we know we must,—-’tis but the change! but to
die suddenly and prematurely, is to live again
as imperfect beings; to witness and again
" Vice and virtue are the opposing qualities of animal life.
P
.1
530 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
pass through all those scenes of guilt, strife,
shame, and misery, we have already encountered
in this present sphere, instead of entering at
once into that celestial kingdom, which God is
Himself struggling to prepare for our future
abode.
Man is subject to primary and secondary
laws: these laws are immutable. His exist
ence, in common with the universe, is by the
primary laws of attraction, repulsion, gravitation,
and deposition: by them he undergoes decom
position or death, for they are simple, and belong
to matter in its non-elastic state. By these
laws the universal foetus is completed in its
structure, and made ready for its locomotive
period. By the secondary, or elastic laws, ab
sorption, muscular motion, and locomotion, man’s
peculiar identity is preserved, and his celestial
being prepared for its future abode in the perfect
individual. When, therefore, man is apprized of
his identity with the Deity, and learns that obedi
ence to the laws imposed upon him is necessary to
the preservation of balk, he will obtain a power
ful incentive to conformity with the creation.
It is in man's own power to make the end of
this sphere everlasting: he is at present strug
gling to annihilate himself. The human beings, de
on, PHYSIOLQGY oF MAN. 53l
veloped at the surface of this our earth, with every
other appendage of their external production,
(animal, plant, and mineral,) constitute one entire
mass or surface of descending creation. They
are the parasitical races that live upon and derive
their sustenance from the body which ﬁrst pro
duced them—they are the portions severally
rejected from the internal mass and brought to
the surface, there to support an isolated existence
for a deﬁnite period, until, by progression through
the several stages of descending organization,
they are rendered ﬁt to be received back again
into the ascending or internal life of the plane
tary organ. There is a certain sphere assigned
by nature to each part of the descending as well
as ascending creation, which is dependant, as
before stated, on the moral and physical qualities
of the body in question; in other words, its tem
perature or speciﬁc gravity. Such being the
case, it is quite evident, that man, in each stage of
his existence, (the oval, the foetal, or the locomo
tive,) must, if a pure and perfect being, present
all his parts connected together in their due
position.* For how can one sphere or organ
' “The great (‘rentor of the universe has exercised in its con
struction the severest and most reﬁned geometry, has traced with
nnerriug precision the boundaries of all its parts, and has prescribed
to each element and each power its respective spin-re and limit.“—
Dr. Roget.
532 THE DISCOVERY 0? THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
of the frame be misplaced or deranged without
affecting the whole body? Each individual or
particle, having a sphere of its own assigned by
nature, must not only occupy that sphere, but
conform to both its moral and physical condi
tions :* if otherwise, it must occasion contraction
and deformity in the body which produced it: it
must be a monster,—-a weed,-—-a parasite,—au
opposition to the laws of both God and man.
Death must be considered a law of nature, for
it is the means by which matter is brought forward
into a new state of existence, or organization:
but disease is premature decay, or death,—a sub
version of that law. Hence I must here be
compelled to revert to an earlier portion of this
present chapter, from which indeed a long, but
necessary, digression has been made. Too much
or too little food I have there shewn to be the
causes of all disease :T and that fever arose from
the development of matter uncongenial to the
* “ In order to form a right judgment of the magniﬁcent spectacle
of nature, we must suffer every object to remain in its place, and
remain ourselves in that which she has assigned to us."——St. Pierre's
Studies of Nature.
'l‘ “Nature isimperative: she is arbitrary: her laws are invariable
she will sustain no interference, and listen to no c0mpromise."--Mr.
Skey. If any man or animal absorb more matter than his natural
wants require, he will, either directly or indirectly, be called upon to
refund.
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 533
machine__Man; matter which weakens and destroys
his vital powers, and brings him to a premature
decay. (See pages 463 and 4-79.) The machine
gifted with locomotive life has deﬁnite conditions
to fulﬁl; it is endowed with existence for a certain
end, and has a term afﬁxed for its duration, in order
that it may accomplish that end. I have stated
what this period should be, (see page 204) ; and the
machine which fails of attaining its full growth
falls short of the intention with which life was
bestowed upon it :"‘ add to this, it brings pre
maturely into existence the superior fabric—its
celestial foetus. In this case, instead of the natural
equilibrium which should exist, the inferior laws
are exercising stronger force than the superior,
or celestial; and disease, to the community, or
whole race contained within the sphere of the
deceased person or persons, must result. For man
° “The measure of mortality of any population consists in the
proportion of dying out of a given number living. As the still-born
have never lived or respired, it is manifestly improper to include them
among the deaths. Any person who is determined to include the
‘still-born‘ among the deaths must, to prescrve any consistency of
principle, include in his number of living, all the unborn children
between the sixth and ninth mouth from conception. Such a mode of
proceeding is not to be thought of, when we have so well-marked a
line as the act of respiration. la the Lancet of June ll, I stated the
proportion of still-born in Glasgow, to be unusually high (I to 16
births.) l have since met with an observation at llamburgh for
eight years, ending 1828, in which the proportion of still-born iS of
equal amount.“
534 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
is but the highest link in each sphere, and all its
component parts are governed or actuated by him:
“ We make ourselves the path wherein we tread.“
Life and death are the contending powers:
organization is everywhere opposed to disorgan
ization. The one unites, the other separates or
divides: the preponderance of either is fatal to
the whole frame. (See page 470-472.) Iflife be in
excess, it is the product of disease; if death, on
the other hand, of disease also. Thus are animals
of every form and shape produced which are
exceptions to ordinary nature! Monsters of a
diseased creation, we ﬁnd awakened into life such
malformations as the Siamese twins,-—the giants
and dwarfs exhibited as curiosities to a vitiated
populace,—animals with too many or too few
members, enlarged or diminished organs, monster
plants, and overgrown species of various races,
which are too numerous to be dwelt on here, but
are all comprised in the one large class of disease,
—-the disease, fever, before enlarged upon in
the present chapter. (Pages 463-475: see also
the notes.)
The more abundant these specimens of disor
dered organization)E the more necessary does it
‘ And we find them to be increasing in the present era.
OR, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 535
become to devise some means of putting a stop
to their ravages; for not only our present but
future existence is at stake! Are then these
unfortunate objects to be cut off and destroyed,
like the offspring of the Spartans, to make room
for the more perfect race? By no means: that
would but aggravate the evil. It is not by era
dicating the weeds which abound in every garden
that the soil becomes puriﬁed: such efforts, like
the result of cutting the hydra, add but to the
power of the opposing principle oflife: for it is by
beheading the impure race, that so many of the
present monstrosities have been produced: else
why do we hear of horrors perpetrated daily,
increasing in cruelty and barbarism? Why,
indeed, but because the more man exerts himself
to destroy the monster, bred by decapitation, the
more powerful does it become: the end, indeed,
cannot be attained by the means resorted to. If
man would stop the progress of crime and disease,
he mustadopt another course: it is not by de
stroying the corrupt race, but by seeking to im
prove it, that the desired change will be wrought:
it is life, not death, that is requisite to the preser
vation of the terrestrial fabricﬁ“ There are grada
tions in every sphere, and nonewithout its parasites.
' Man, at once the creator and destroyer, crops the natural ﬂower
to wantonly adorn his buttoned mantle—to feast his eyes on its
decaying beauty! Little does he think it is his own ﬂesh and blood
536 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
The evil one, the monster in question, is a part of
man’s own sphere, a part of the terrestrial organ,
he is destroying with such wanton sport! Little does he think that
not only in this apparently trivial instance, but in a thousand others,
he is bringing premature destruction upon himselfand his whole race!
Result qfcutting down Forcsts.—-“ A. M. Devez de ()habroil, in a
memoir treating of the effects arising from the extirpation of forests,
cites several historical documents, all tending to establish the fact that
the temperature of the country is not only lowered by the taking away
of the trees, but that streams dry up, and rain ceases to fall. M.
Boussingault conﬁrms these by several instances where lakes have
been diminished in consequence of cutting down the neighbouring
woods, and the water restored to its formerlevel by suffering the trees
to grow again; also where the quantity of water has always remained
the same, when the woods near it have been left untouched. M.
Boussingault states, that in some of the provinces of South America,
which are covered with wood, it rains every day; and in others, where
the soil is sandy and arid, it never rains; yet these provinces have the
same latitude and climate, and the projections and distances of moun
tains are nearly similar."
“ An experiment is contemplated to be tried in America to produce
artiﬁcial thunder, lightning, and rain, almost at pleasure. It is well
known that vapour exists in much greater abundance near the earth‘s sur
face than higherup, and if this vapourcould be elevated in ample quanti
ties to a suﬁicienthoight,the superior cold would condense itinto clouds,
which, from the very process of evaporation and condensation, would
he electrical. Hence may proceed those grand phenomena of nature.
The method obviously pointed out is, to produce a powerful current
from the surface upwards at the time the atmosphere is otherwise still.
which may be accomplished bya great heat rarifying substrata. This
is, indeed, the very step nature follows; and it was lately stated to us,
before several gentlemen, by a distinguished philosopher, that it has
actually been done, though accidentally, in America. A large quan
tity of wood or turfwas by some means set on fire, and after burning
a considerable time, a deep cloud formed above, and the phenomena
of thunder, Sac. followed. In corroboration of this it has been re
marked that heavy rain, and not unfrequently thunder and lightning,
follows grcat battles.“
n ﬁf— _
-__- F1, _'_-._. “a. — --
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 537
a part of the Universal Man, a part of the Deity
himself! Let, then, the imperfect be made per
fect, and adapted to the use of the whole race!
The one man comprises in himself all the other
parts. Who will then oppress his neighbour,
when he learns that that neighbour is necessary
to his own existence, and that the evil will extend
itself to the whole community, every branch of
which is concerned in the preservation of the in
ternal mam—the future earth—the Deity, from
whom he has descended? Man must henceforward
look upon all things as connected with himself by
one imperative link. He cannot advance—
he cannot retreat—without inﬂuencing all those
beings co-existent with himself, --who have gone
before, or who will follow after him. These
are as essential to his welfare as he is to theirs.
Let him then become the mirror of moral and
physical excellence! No more exactions from the
poor! man must look to the oppressed at the com
mencement of his dawn of improvement; with
them indeed begins the progress of disease which
he has to arrest."‘ Let him feed the hungry,
° “ The strikes of the cotton-spinners, which ended in the trials at
Edinburgh and Glasgow, were, even by the confession of the men
themselves, ill-timed. The Nrw Liberator of Glasgow, a journal of
the workmen, states, in an article of the 13th of January, 1838, that
trade being prosperous in the latter end of 1836, ‘ the spinners me
morialized their employers for an augmentation of wages, and the
538 THE mscovsnr or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
clothe the naked, comfort the afﬂicted, and heal
the diseased :——let him act a Saviour’s part to his
rationality of their claim being so self-evident, they succeeded with
little difﬁculty, and without exercising any coercive measures what
ever. ‘ ‘ Thus everything went on harmoniously between the
operative spinner and his master until the spring of 1837; but by
that time the frightful and every way alarming stagnation of trade had
set in, the manufacturer had little demand for the productions of the
loom, and the weavers were thrown idle in thousands. In conse
quence of this melancholy reaction in our commercial aﬂ'airs the prices
of yarns began to decline; and the masters‘ ﬁrst step, on being offered
lower prices, was to reduce the spinners to the standard which existed
prior to the recent advanre. This step was promptly and decidedly
opposed by the operatives, who struck work in April, 1837.‘ And
what was the result? It lasted seventeen weeks and ﬁve days, and
terminated by the spinners unanimously agreeing to return to their
work within three days after the ruling committee had been arrested
in a body. The loss to Glasgow during the strike is estimated at
£194,540. But the suﬂ'erings of the working people were dreadful.
"l'he aliment allowed by the association to each man, during the latter
part of the strike, was only eighteen-pence a week. From thirty-ﬁve
shillings a week to one and sixpence is a serious fall. But the con
dition of the female operatives,-the piecers, carders, and reelers,—-was
inﬁnitely worse, for there was no fund whatever provided for their
maintenance, and from the commencement they were thrown upon
the streets, without either asylum, employment, or subsistence. It
may readily be conceived what must have been the consequence of
six or seven thousand women being kept in a state of destitution and
idleness for four months; especially when in close proximity to equal
numbers of the other sex, also trained to disorderly habits by the
habitual receipt of high wages and frequent inteinperance. The
necessary consequence was, that crime and immorality increased to afrigth/iil
rhgrre; and the rapid progress qfrsvsn, us well as great increase in the rah
q/‘nmrmlily, evinced, in an appalling manner, how fatal such strikes
are to the great interests of the labouring poori'
“ From a table compiled with great care from the Vital Stalistirs if
Gt'usgow, lately published by Dr. Cowan, it appears that, in 1922.
the population of Glasgow was 151,440; the total number of pri
on, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 539
fellow-creatures! in protecting them he is but
succouring and prolonging his own existence, by
the preservation of that great body of which we
are all alike constituted members. Man has
received the gift—Life, and is accountable
for the use which he makes of it: he must
live for ever, —- but it depends on himself
alone, whether he occupies an exalted or de
based position in the scale of creation. It has
been justly said, that “the consequences of our
actions never die ;" for the impression of vice, like
that of virtue, is permanent in every sphere. On
man himself does it depend, whether the now
progressing celestial Being shall attain His perfect
dimensions, or enter into life in a deformed and
mutilated condition.
soners tried, 98; the fever patients in the Royal Inﬁrmary, 229; the
total deaths, 3,690; the rate of mortality 7 to 41. In 1837, the
population was 253,000; the prisoners tried, 392; the fever patients
in the Royal Inﬁrmary, 3,860; the total deaths, 10,888; the rate of
mortality, l to 24. These are changes with a vengeance. Fever
has increased 1,600 per cent.; deaths 300 per cent. The situation
and climate of Glasgow have not changed. All this is the work‘of
trades‘ unions."-—Morning Chronicle, April 18, 1838.
All congregative powers afford an instance of the congestive state
of fever, being produced by the blocking up or congealing of the
circulating ﬂuid medium. It is by hoarding and accumulating wealth
to himself, that man produces disease and death in the community at
large, through withdrawing its appropriate nutriment. The in
ternal superabnndance always denotes the external deﬁciency, and
vice vcrsﬁ. The individual must never be aggrandized at the expense
of his whole sphere. Man lives on the labours of his species, and
is bound to return, morally and physically, the obligation.
540 THE DISCOVERY OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
The rapid progress of fever and other events
intimating the premature approach of the period
ﬁxed for the entrance of the celestial foetus into
his third or locomotive stage, not a moment
should be lost in endeavouring to avert the im
pending danger. Prompt and forcible measures
must instantly be adopted! and, in the present
critical position in which the life of man is
placed, to whom should we have recourse for
assistance, if not to the medical branches of the
community? The physician of the individual
must now become converted into one for the
whole race: he must know, that what may be
administered to one member cannot be hurtful to
the many, for
“ All are but parts of one stupendous whole!“
Physiological knowledge should now be applied,
not only on the minute, but on the most extensive
scale: otherwise disease and death will ensue to
the whole human race. From the physiologist
it is that we must ascertain the true and healthy
state which the fabric of the universe should
present in its several stages; it is he who must
inform us which parts are healthy or diseased—
what symptoms are likely to prove favorable, or
what fatal, to its structure—the mode in which
the superabundance of growth of its popula~
0R, PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 5“
tion“ is to be retarded, or the deﬁciency
supplied, for the preservation of the necessary
equilibrium among the several organs. If any
part or member has extended beyond its due limits
and encroached upon the territories of another, he
it is who must prescribe a new and a safer channel,
that the temperature may be reduced to its proper
standard, and the fever become subdued. In the
universal constitution, each man (whether the
miner, the tanner, or the forger,) must have an
allotted station; nor can he depart from it with—
out an injury to the whole sphere. By restoring
each organ to its true position, and appropriating
each part or member of that organ to its destined
function, we shall be enabled to compose and har
monize thewhole system ofMan. Howeverhumble
his position, each individual must now become of
essential importance to the general welfare.
Away, then, with every imaginary distinction of
birth, of employment, or of country! we all are of
one family—descended from one parent; our com
mon country—the whole habitable globe; our em
ployment-theone end and aim of perpetuating and
improving the human species! Medical informa
tion must be extended without reserve to every
branch of the community, in order that each
individual, by the preservation of his own health,
may contribute his share towards purifying the
' See page 467-472.
542 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE,
atmosphere, one portion of which, by becoming
corrupt, has spread taint and infection over the
whole earth.
God has commanded that a perfect man be
produced : “Be ye therefore perfect, even
as your Father which is in heaven is perfect 3“
man himself must pay the penalty if it is other
wise. Each individual, having a character of
his own to sustain, has had implanted in
his heart every law necessary to regulate and
guide him throughout life: it is only when he
deviates from those laws that he loses the rudder
which balances his course, and falls from his po
sition in society. Man’s ﬁrst endeavour should be
’ Matthew, v., 48.
“ Unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure
of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on
high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men. (Now thathc
ascended, what is it but that he also descended ﬁrst into the lower parts
of the earth? He that descended is the same also that ascended up far
above all heavens, that he might ﬁll all things.) And he gave some
apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some,
pastors and teachers; for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of
the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: till we all come
in the unity ofthe faith, and of the knowledge ofthe Son of God, unto
a pcrﬂct man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ -'
that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried
about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight ofmen, and cunning
craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive; but speaking the truth
in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even
Christ; from whom the whole body ﬁtly joined together and corn
pacted by that which every joint supplicth, according to the eﬂ'a'tzul
working in the measure of every part, makcth increase of the body unto
the edifying of itselfin love."—Ephesians, iv., 7-16. I
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 543
to discover his true position upon the earth which
produced him, and if it be not that which he now
occupies, physically or morally, let him endeavour
to regain it: for, if he loses his own sphere in the
universal foetus, he will be degraded or degenerated
in the locomotive man, and ﬁnally, becoming non
elastic, will be rejected and thrown off from the
fabric of his Deity, to descend to the very lowest
sphere or apex of all organization: nor will he
recover that which ought to have been his true
position until he has passed through every inter-~
vening degree in the ascending scale of life.
No more, then, let man battle with his fellow
man- it is with the elements of nature that he has
now to contend! they are fearful, they have be
come dangerous and destructive to his existence :*
' “ Between the years 13H and 1317, the city, in common with the
rest of the kingdom, suﬂ‘ered greatly from a scarcity of provisions,
which eventually produced a complete famine, although diﬂ‘erent
ordinances were made by the parliament to limit the consumption,
and restrain the prices of corn, meat, poultry, 8w. ‘ 'l‘here followed
this famine,‘ says Stowe, ‘ a grievous mortality ol'people, so that the
quick might scarcely bury the dead. The beasts and cattle also, by
the corrupt grass whereof they fed, died; whereby it came to pass,
that the eating of ﬂesh was suspected by all men, for ﬂesh of beasts
not corrupted was hard to ﬁnd; horse-ﬂesh was counted at great
delicacy; the poor stole fat dogs to eat; some, as it was said, com
pelled through famine, in hid places, did eat the ﬂesh of their own
children, and some stole others, which they devoured. Thieves that
were in prison did pluck in pieces those that were newly brought
NN
544 THE mscovsnr or run VITAL PRINCIPLE,
man must therefore learn to subdue himself, as
it is from his own body that these elements have
been produced, and by the multiplied power he is
daily giving to them that he is now about to put a
premature period to his existence. These very
elements by condensing around us are forming
immense rocks and strata—a stumbling-block and
a hinderance to the descent of our Deity; in the
midst of huge mountains of ice the existence of
the Son of God is suspended. Ye then, who
would pre_eminently distinguish yourselves in the
approaching glorious era, be prepared to enter
into a new species of warfare! To the Holy
Wars—to the liberation of your imprisoned Deity
——sally forth! Man your ships, ye brave mariners!
make ready to set sail to the east—to the west—
to the north—t0 the south! A discovery more
brilliant than that of Columbus awaits you ! a new,
an unexplored region is about to be revealed-—
a country already the abode of your fathers,
your mothers, your sisters, your lovers, and your
friends! \Vecp no more for them the tears of
unavailing regret !— they yet live —— they await
but their appointed time to be re-united unto
you! Let not the glorious plan of your Creator
among them, and greedily devoured them half alive.‘ Tilis_famiyw i,
said In have her 1: brought on by a continuance ofwel neat/ma“
on, PHYSIOLOGY or MAN. 545
be counteracted! —-for with yourselves remains
the great task of accomplishing the restoration
and redemption of your race!
Man has but to apply himself to the study of
the various springs arising from his own heart,
and the way in which they are reverberated back
again by the multiplied bodies surrounding him:
he will then see that eternal life is not a delusion,
but that the human mind is composed of materials
capable of unity, compression, and expansion;
that the brain is truly the table, type, and per
petual record of all human actions in this sphere:
that it enables him to mount with his mind’s eye
up to the skies, to dive down to the fathomless
deep, to converse with his Deity, to see the
strength and power of His laws,—t0 admire the
beautiful structure of the heavens, and to know
that he himself has been formed of the same
materials and shaped by the same mould, and
that by strict adherence to those laws he will
ﬁnd declining life bring with it that mental per
fection which will enable him not only to see past
events, but to view with calm resignation all the
scenes of the present life, under the conviction
that they are necessary before he can arrive at
that perfection which is requisite to ensure his
everlasting dominion, glory, and happiness. That
man will attain a future state ofperfectibility, and
546 THE DISCOVERY or THE VITAL PRINCIPLE.
consequently of happiness, may be known by com
mon-place observations made upon bodies sur
rounding him. Life is a problem, wanting only
labour to solve it! The astronomer must go
hand in hand with the mechanic, the physician
with the mathematician, when they will be able to
gain one standard of measure: heat, light, width,
depth, quantity, quality, points, lines, solids, and
superﬁcies, all, all, will be explained!
INDEX.
Aeaoarrrou, 482, 483, 486, note ('),43.
Acephalocysta, note ('), 465, note (' ),
470.
Adam, the perfect man of the terres
trial ovum, 233, 234, 512-514.
Aeritorm life, how it commences,
442; how produced in the plant,
196; its purposes, 197.
Aeronautical phenomenon, note ('),
299.
trip of Mr. Monck Ma
son to Wielburg, note
(°), 371-314. Fur
ther account ofit, note,
386-388.
Air, necessary to life, note ('), 247.
theory of its compression in the
earth’s centre, note 288
Aﬂiux and Inﬂux, a universal law,
note ('), 55.
Aggregation, note ('), 482.
Algae, or “ bond slaves,” their ofﬁce in
nature, note ('), 351.
Alps, river runs through them, note
a), 326.
Amnios, loses its transparency prior
to the locomotive life, 212. 213,
note ('), 212.
Anaxagoraa, his prophecy that a stone
would fall from the sun. Alluded
to by Butler, note (i), 97.
Animal matter, must be produced by an
animal being, note (I), 519.
Animals, their progressive creation,
note (‘), 231.
see and land, 3528, 329.
and plants of former times;
their gigantic stature, notes,
254, 255.
enclosed in stone, note (1'),
306, 307.
of Staten Island; their d0
meetic habits, note (f), 252.
Animal creation, prior to the ﬂood,
246-252, all matter of, 219
and vegetable life; their iden
tity, note ('), 430; an in
crease of both, note (°),
310, 380, 534.
life; alternate preponderance
of its materials; its progres
sion, 183.
Antiquities of Egypt and other coun
tries. 263-250.
Apsides, line of, note (‘), 21 .
Archimedes ; his proposed mode of
moving the earth, consistent with
nature, note, 51 .
Arinns, note, 4.
Arteries and veins, 207-8, note (2 ),
415.
Ascent of animal creation, 231,232. ‘
Asphyxiu, heart's action in, note (t),
214.
Atmosphere otihe earth ; ofwhat com
posed. 336.
548 lNDEX.
Atmosphere, the medium of light, not:
('), 252.
its inﬂuence in vegetation,
notes, l8'l.
earth's; its original purity,
246-248.
returned to the body; pro
duces disease, 263.
--———- earth’s; changed before
the ﬂood, 264, 265.
—--—-—-— subsequent to the ﬂOOd,
note 0), 35-1.
—————- its impurity caused by man,
542.
its condensation, 877-379,
sea-ass, 542.
its combustion, 385-390.
Atmospheric pressure, the cause of
locomotion, 216.
Atmospherical phenomena, produced at
pleasure, note, 536.
Atoms, l-Zpicurus on their elementary
condition, note (‘), 28.
Attraction, 480-483, 485. note (1'),
note (I), 483, note ('), 485.
Bacon, Lord, his prophecy concerning
the discovery of the laws of
celestial bodies, note, 2.
Bakewell, on the origin of planets,
note, 223.
Balloons, man preserved through the
approaching change of the earth
by means of, 392, 393.
Blacksmitb’s forge, living action of
man compared to it, 462.
Blood, the change from venous to
arterial, note (’), 214.
its colour produced by oxygen,
note(1),210.
Boiling point, 20-24.
Brain, notes (t), (i), 418.
its deposition, and change to the
fatal life, 443.
its three stages, 444, 445, 447.
of what composed, note (').
7M3.
Brain, its weight, note ('), 444.
compression of the, 451-453,
Brain, or Moon; its oval and fetal
stages, 244, 245; increase in
size, and change tothe fetal
state : the result, 265-268.
and uterus, not appropriated to
use in the tonal lil'e, note ('),
210.
Brougham, Lord, his opinion of the
origin of matter, note (°), 4.
Butterﬂy, man compared to the, 341
346.
Carbon, the pure basis of charcoal.
When crystalhzed it is the
diamond : diamond a non
conductor,but carbon acon
ductor of electricity. How
to procure carbon, 133.
its inﬂuence on organization,
144.
employed in forming the
planets, 45, 46, its depo
sition, nole (‘), 222.
black diamond produced
chemically by Sir H. Davy,
note, 222, 223.
its existence in atmospheric
air, 223.
a fundamental element of
organic beings, H3.
its abundance, 143, not: (°),
304.
selected on account of its in
destructibility as the base of
animal life, 146.
an ingredient of the animal,
vegetable, and mineral
kingdoms, note (1), 92.
the base of all bitteis, 180.
its destructive tendency, 179,
note, 226.
its proportion in diﬂ'erent
substances, nolr ('), 144,
note, 466.
iNDEX. 549
Carbon, vegetable; whence derived,
note ('), 192.
evaporated in siliceous shields,
note ('), 338.
Carbonic acid gas. How produced,
135, 136.
Lavoisier’s experiments on it.
Reduced by Thiloriet to
the solid form, 136, I31.
given oﬂ' by vegetables, 119.
forms the surface of our
earth's atmosphere, 184.
is thrown off by the earth to
form its organs, 353-355.
Carbonic oxide, 138.
Carhuncle, note (i), I43.
Carcass, origin of the word, 234, note
(i), 234.
Cat’s eye, line of light In its centre,
note, 401.
Change of the materials composing the
human body. note ('), 446.
Chalk and lime~stoue, Hi.
Charcoal, the difﬁculty to convert it
into vapour, note (i), 134.
insoluble in water; not af
fected by heat when air and
moisture are excluded. Con
sumes in air when heated
to a certain temperature:
the air becomes destruc
tive to vitality, 131.
entirely consumed in combus
tion, note (3), 134.
its absorption of the gases,
13}, 135.
its absorption of moisture,
Mk V), 142.
its aﬂ‘mity for hydrogen and
oxygen, 142, 143.
how it acts when thrown up
into hydrogen gas, note ('),
165.
a preservative against pntre
faction, nole ('), HG.
Christ, the perfect man of the earth,
61 L514.
Christ, his ascent to the brain or moon.
Progressive descent and re
union with the earth, 614,
516; his progress impeded,
544.
produced from the body of the
Deity, being His own Son
and successor, 519, 520, 52!.
the express image of the person
of God. All things created
by Him, note ('), 5'22.
Christ, the only foundation, note ('l,
6H, nole(’), 525.
Cilia. Where found, note 463.
Cinder. Colour and appearance of
that formed in the manufacture of
iron, note ('), 106, 107.
CirCulution of the foetus: single, for
growth alone, '210.
Circulation, foetal. The colour white,
210.
returning, commences in
the locomotive life, not:
(i), 210.
of the third life. Its cause,
2|5.
——- double, note ('), 437.
City antiquities, note ('), 852.
Clarke, Dr., his ﬁrst proposition re
specting the eternity of matter,
M (o. 4
Climate, change of, note (“), 301.
Multiplied phenomena of the late
years, mil-370.
Coal, 143, Ml: (‘), “)6.
Cold, abounds in the upper regions of
the earth’s atmosphere, note (‘),
168.
Colour, its cause, 405-408.
varied in crystals, note (it), 406.
nnlc (’), 407.
of the lower animals, note ( ‘),
252.
of the human race, how pro
duced, 346, 347.
Combustion, 350, note ('), 400, 40] ,
402.
5-50 INDEX
Combustion, its separation of matter,
-l l l -4 l3.
increased of late years, 307
370.
atmospheric, causes the
earth to change to the
locomotive state, 384
392.
Conﬂagrstion of the earth, predicted
by the Stolcs, note('), 388, 1101c
(i), 435
Composition and decomposition, note
(~), 488.
Compression, of seeds, produces ﬂui
dity, 226.
the cause of locomotion,
note (1'), 491.
Consumption,acureforit,nole(°),455.
Contagion, 464, note: (°), (1), 464.
Continent, new, note, 333.
Coral, note, 332, 333.
Creation, its order, as maintained by
Anamgoras, note ('), 12.
its order, according to Lucre
tius, note P), 12.
ofanimals, progressive, 231.
of perfect mutter, destroyed
by men’s disobedience, 235.
of imperfect mutter, pro
duced, 236.
——descending,53l, note (‘), 520.
internal, liberated by the
perfect man in each stage,
514.
Crosse, ML, his experiments, 319-322.
Crystal; where found, and how, stole,
29].
Crystallinelens of n coil-ﬁsh, note (°), 8.
Crystallization, note ('), 38, nole, 310.
and grevitationof matter,
41.
its primitive forms, note
('), 224, 225.
————- of living animals at the
ﬂood, 305-313.
Cysts, their growth, note (1'), 467.
Durkness, note ('), 404, not: ('), 883,
note ('), 384-.
Dr. Kirby’s opinion on, note
0), 11.
it produces deformity, 253,
note (.), 253.
itseﬂ'ect on growthmole (').
382.
of the terrestrial ovum, 225.
the approaching, 382-384.
Day of the Lord, note (1), 435.
Death, 234, 452, 453.
the entrance into life, note ('),
481.
Decapitation, the means of multi
plying the diseased race, 5:15.
Deity, His material nature: human
form: perfection: His organs,
515, 510.
Scriptural instances of His hu
man unture,note('), 5l6.
the sourcoof perfection; Author
and Preserve: of all, 516. 517.
~-————- His present position and name,
an, 518, note (~), 518, note
(o. 515
—-His sphere comprises all existing
matter, 518.
every animal belongs to His
body, 518.
His two-fold propagation, 618
621.
His identity with man—~the de
scending and ascendinch
tions, 620-52].
—— believed by the Hindoos to ex
ist under different forms, note
(o. 611
the Creator, Preserver, and
Destroyer, 622.
-—--— His eternal life, 522, 523.
Deluge, bow produced, 263-268.
Design, shewn by the Creator in form
ing the universe, 438, note (1'),
438.
Dew, not been properly investigated,
168.
INDEX. 55l
Dew, contributes to, and supports ani
nniluinlvegetnble life, 169, 170.
—-— the primary cause of both, 170.
— comes from the sun, l7], I76.
— black spots which accompany it,
172.
a triple substance, crystallized
as snow, 17$.
the black sediment contained in
it, note ('), I77.
carbon preserve: its purity, 177.
sulphur and note produced from
it, 111.
its varieties: May-dew, note, 178.
its coldness, note ('), 181, 182.
produces storms, 172, 173.
causes the earth’s temperature to
vary, I75.
— its great utility in hot climates,
note ('Q, 170.
—- its abundance in Egypt, Arabia,
and India; cannot be formed
in temperate climates on n
living body, note (‘), lﬂ9.
—- n source of corruption, note ('),
266.
when too abundant, causes dis
ease, 173, 174.
~—- alluded to by Isaiah, note, 180.
-— experiments on it, note ('), note
(t). 116
Dew-drops, compared to gems, note
('), 186.
Dinmant, primitif, note ('), 73.
Diamond, its names, 63, note, ('), 63,
80.
how esteemed in ancient
times, 63,80. 92,
itloriginalsituation unknown,
63, 64.
principal mines : how ﬁrst
discovered in I ndin, and the
story connected with them,
64, 65, 66.
Mlnes at Soumelponr, Bann
gnnpilly, Ovalumpilly, and
('hennur,67, 68,69. Mines
Ill
llll
l
ofBrazil, 69, 70, 71. Mines
of Borneo,72. Mr. Muwe
on their-general locality, 72.
Diamond, found in washing for gold,
and modern opinion as to
their formation, note, 229.
form of the, 72, 73,74, 75.
its crusted appearance, 75,
note, 76.
how cleansed, 78.
transparency and purity, 77,
note (§), 79.
classed, ﬁrst, second, and
third water, note (1'), 77.
its imperfections. 78.
composed of minute layers,
79.
its hardness, 7, 79, 80, note
(one.
its unalternble nature, and
diﬂ‘erence from all other
substances, 8], note ('),
82.
a good repository of wealth,
62, note (+), as.
mode of ascertaining its
value, 83.
loss of weight in its manu
facture, note ('), 84.
its reﬂexion of light, and
luminous properties, 87,
88, note ('), 87 ; note (1'),
87.
its polarization of light; Sir
Isaac Newton’s opinion of
it, ﬁt). 90.
in some respects analogous to
gum arabic, note (1'), 90.
its identiﬁcation with carbon,
91, note ('), 92.
carbonic acid proved to be
formed from it, 92.
Newton’s prediction of its in
ﬂammable nnture, note (‘),
91.
itscombusiion, 0]. note ('),
432.
552 INDEX.
point of extreme heat is
hydrogen, 62.
Disease, 403-415, 419.
premature death or life, 532,
633.
Abernethy on its cause, not:
('), 463.
precedes the earth’s change
to its locomotive stage, 350
382, 38.); its increase, note,
ass, 539.
how caused in the fourteenth
century, note ('), 543.
-——— of the terrestrial fetus; how
to be cured, 540-544.
Duration, notes ('), (f), 429.
——-—~ of all things limited, note (1’),
488.
of the universe, 429-431.
of each part of creation
deﬁnite. If retarded or
extended, disease results,
633.
Earth, an organ of the universe, 203.‘
Diamond, its identity with plumhago,
93, 94.
a non-conductor, carbon a
conductor of electricity, 94.
—-———— its speciﬁc gravity, and electric
power, note (1') 91, 28.
-——eil'ect of galvinism on it, 28.
——-—- of two classes, experiments
upon them, note (t), 92
i'ound in loose stones, note
0). 800
lts aﬁinity with crystal, nole
(t), 73.
Cornish, note, 416, 4H1.
Bristol,Boyle on their forma
tion, note, 233.
.____--- in the possession ofthe an
cients, note, 92.
Russian, its shape. Eyes of
Hindoo idols formed of
it, note ('), 447.
regarded with superstitious
venerntion in India, note
c), in.
forming the clasp oi the im
perial mantle of Charle
magne, note (' '), 79.
.___-_- experiment undopinion of Sir
H. Davy upon it, 94,95.
its medicinal properties, 95.
singular fact in relation to the
londstone, 95.
___-experinwnis of Leeuwenhoek,
and his opinion on itsformu
tion and increase, 84, 85.
4-.—-another opinion, note“), 229.
inferences of the author re
specting its origin, 96, 96.
the primitive matter, 7.
_—-seeds of all matter formed of
it, 205.
its organization, 7, 8.
its ovilorm nature, 8, 9.
this universe formed from
it, as.
-—at the point of extreme cold
is iron, or oxygen; at the
formed from man's body. 346,
24] .
subject to vital laws, 22] .
its three stages, 22L
-——— an epitome of the universe, 395.
Plato’s opinion respecting it,
note ('), 41.
Hindoo notion of its origin, note
('), 2'11.
not always its present size, 218.
increase of its bulk, 226, 281.
its fetal organization, 214, 275,
887-289.
its fcetal life commenced in the
centre, 231.
its centre, combustible, nah: (~)
275.
detached from the sun, 268.
opinion of Anaragorns on in.
retroversion, note ('), 268.
its revolution round the sun
268. ,
lN osx. 5.33
Earth, it turns on its axis, 268.
Mr. A. Walker's opinion on its
rotation, note, 269.
_ iﬁ surface ; how renovated,
notes, 331. its changes, notes,
328-330.
twice menaced with destruc
tion, nule ('), 388.
its premature destruction. Man
the com, 374, 375.
change to the locomotive state;
accompanying phenomena,
377-384.
Earthquakes, note ('), 362-367, note
(0, 315.
Earthworm, its importance in nature,
note, 349.
Eden, garden of; its position, 512.
Egg, 346, 349.
— its organization, note ('), 434.
——how protected, 60]. note ('), 235.
_ extension of the air-vessel, note
(+1. 386
-—-— its difference when sweet and
putrid, note (t), 235, 236.
-—-universe produced from it, 84,
note (1), 519.
-—- general opinion of the ancients
that creation originated from
it, note ('), 16.
Egyptians, colour of the ancient races
of, note (°), 261.
Elasticity, it unites the sexes, 51].
the web of life, 497, 498.
how produced, 498.
its three stages, 501.
its oval stage, 501-503.
its fetal stage, 503-501.
its locomotive stage,507, 508.
Electricity, its effect on hydrogen and
oxygen, note ('), 399.
and combustion, note (t),
406.
Elements of bodies, note (1), 182.
Emery, employed in cutting gems, note
('h 70
Entozoa, note (‘), 46R.
Entozou, cause of their existence, nole
464.
Epicurus, on the solidity of elementary
particles, note (‘), 7.
Eternity of matter, or mind, a question
in dispute, note ('), 515.
Exchange of matter when dissimilarly
electriﬁed, 56.
Extension, note ('), 414.
Extraordinary phenomenon, note, 38!.
Extraneous fossils, note, 314.
Eye, note ('), 448, note ('), 449.
447-450.
Feeling, real and imaginary, 45l
Ferns, nolc (°), 475.
Fever, 463-465-532-534, note ('), 533.
Fibre, elementary, note ([1), 56.
Fires, their frequent occurrence in
London, note ('), 369.
Fllnts, sum paid for their being dug
during one winter at Brighton,
note, 377.
Fluids, how heated, note (')I 435.
developed in stones, note (1'),
221, 22s.
vegetable, note ('), 191, 192.
Fly, common; at its death forms the
nest of its species, note ('), 349.
Fly-tree, note, 202.
Fatal life, change from the oval to the,
note (‘), 206.
how it commences, 20.
how produced in the plant,
193, 104.
its organs formed, 196.
of plants, limited, 196.
changes to the locomotive,
212, 213, 211.
dili‘ers from the locomotive,
211, 11012 (~), 211, 212.
Fortus of the Universe, its extension, 24.
its right and left hand, 54.
Forests, result of cutting them down,
nole, 536.
Formations, primary and secondary,
"01¢ (~), 313, 314.
554 INDEX.
_Fossi1s, note (t), 310-812.
Fossil-trees in Edinburgh, note (t),
309.
Freezing point, 21-24.
Friction, 495.
Galaxy, note ('), 60.
Genders, three in one, 509-511.
Geological discovery in the United
States, note 260.
Geometry applied to the creation, note
(1'), 57
Giants, note (‘), 249, 250.
Gigantic stature of man, 248-251.
Gipsey’s life, conducive to health, note
0), 451.
Glaciers, they increase in bulk, note,
288.
Glass, volcanic, note ('), 306.
its attraction of cohesion, note
(~), 205.
Gnat, its mode of depositing eggs, note
u). 41
God, the architect of creation, men His
labourers, 528.
Gold, found in pools of water in Borneo,
note ('), 12.
Golden ago, note (’), 234.
Golden chain, described by Homer;
by Plato supposed to reprerent the
sun, note ('), 32.
Graham, Mn, his observations on light
ning, note (' ), 298.
Granite rocks, 346.
Gravitation, 4516-492.
universal, opinion of the
Stoics on it, 27.
Gravity, the centre of, note ('), 27,
note ('), 492.
Growth of the universe, 56, 428.
Hail, uncommon in winter, and dur
ingthe night, note (1'), 296.
Hailstorms, their cause, note, 297.
Ham, a name given to the sun, note
('), 418.
Ha'uy, on magnetism andelectricity, 56.
Heat, ans-403, note ('), 50, note 0).
398, note ('), 403, note ('),
229.
and cold, opinion of Lord Vern
lam and other learned men, of
both ancient and modern times,
note (a). 23.
subsequent to matter, 11.
produced by snow, note ('), 116.
of nebulous matter, note ('), 39.
passes with diﬂiculty through
vitreous substances, note (‘),
289.
diminished,
<1). ~238
Heart of man, how formed, 206.
-— ascent of matter producing it,
20, 21.
its bulk varies, note (°), 216.
is the fetal stomach, 210.
a steam apparatus, 215.
its combustion, note (1'), 215.
its structure shared in the third
life, 211.
— multiplication of its diseases,
note 0), 459.
Heart of the earth, ‘275.
Hematite, note (+), 101.
mountains in the Island of
Elba, note, 32.1.
Heavenly bodies, subsequent to matter,
10. 12.
their approach to each other,
note (1'), 436.
Herschell, Dr., on the centre of matter,
28.
Hindoos, their opinion of the incubation
ofmatier,12, 13.
Horse-chesnut, its buds, 501.
Hot-blast, note, 105.
Hot-springs, note (°), 334-.
Human race, not to be traced in fossil
formations, note (' ), 347.
Human beings crowded into a small
space, note ('), 456.
Hydrogen, whence the term, 147.
Ill!
causes death, note
Iiill
INDEX 555
Hydrogen. its lightness, 147, not: (1'),
152, mu 0), 413.
how distributed in nature,
147.
cannot be procured in the
solid form, 147.
always produced from water,
HT.
unabsorbable by most sub
stances, 141.
dissolves certain substances,
148.
does not act on the earths,
148.
its various qualities, HQ.
Its inﬂummnbility, 148.
incapable of supporting com
bustion, 148.
- destructive to animal life,
148.
how to ascertain its purity,
149.
discovery of M. Doherelner,
HQ.
its deposition of moisture,
whence the name it hears,
150.
philosophical candle of Dr.
Priestley, 150.
of
Hydrogen, with oxygen and carbon,
when compressed, pro
duces lite, 180-182.
carburetted, 139, note ('),
141.
its combinations, note (1),
138.
gas, solution of metals in it,
note, 368.
Hydnlids, notes ('), (1'), 463, We ('),
470, note ('), 472
Ice, it ﬂoats in the air in the Arctic
regions, note, 290.
Identiﬁcation of mineral, vegetable,
and animal life, note ('),
322.
of the diamond with hydrogen,
and iron with oxygen; their
union in the ﬂuid,water, NH,
165, 168.
Identity of the individual, with the
general, sphere, 524-621.
lmbibition, 195, note (1), 482.
lmitative freaks of nature, note, 307-309.
Increased size of the universe, 54.
lnernstation, note ('), 309.
Indian rubber, analogous to silk, note
('),606.
Dr. Faraday's theory
sound, 150, 151.
its smell, 15].
its spontaneous combustion,
151, 152.
its relation to organization,
152.
its properties as an element
sacriﬁced to its properties
as water, 153.
its attraction for oxygen, 151.
its general utility, 153.
the base of all alkalles, 180.
consists of liquid ﬂame,
181.
is matter in the extreme
point of heat, 62, note ('),
398.
Infection, 464, note ('), 464.
Infusoria, their importance, note ('),
323.
rocks produced from them,
315-321.
Insect-hobnoximls toman, note ('), 339.
how engendered, note (1), 410.
Insect, has no sex except in the state of
image or winged insect, not: ('),
510.
Insects, 336.
Iron, exists in ﬁve states, 96, 97.
native, 97. Opinion of ancient
and modern philosophers con
cerning it, 97.
-- Dr. Wollaston on the forms of
native iron, 98, note ('l, 93,
note (it) HM.
556 lNDEX.
Iron, singular mus found in America,
note, 259.
-— hill of solid, note (t), 99.
suiphuret of, 99, 101, 102.
— carburetof, 99, note (1'), 212. Its
forms, note (1), 99.
— oxide of, 99, note (1), 100, note
(*),110.
Iron-ore, specular, 100, note ('), 101.
hematite, how found, 101.
renit'orm, 102.
pisiiorm,102.
meadow ore, 102.
sparry, note, 99.
-———- argillaceous, note, 314.
Iron-ores, their infuaorial formation,
note (~), 817, 322.
Iron, produced by vegetable decompo
sition, note, 315.
strata of, note, 316.
--— the base of rocks, proved by
experiments of Prof. Ehrenberg,
316, 311.
-—- found in every rock, note (°), 103.
—- its abundance, 103, note (1), 131.
-- the cause of colour in rocks mid
stones, 103. Occasions an in
crease in their gravity, 104.
-— belongs to the three divisions of
nature, 104.
_- the base of every metal, note ('),
157.
_._how connected with the metals,
note ('i'), 71.
the base of oxygen, 62.
__.bog, called water-iron, note (II),
165.
--does not combine with azote or
hydrogen, note, 111.
--the term applied to sleet or rain,
by the poet Gray, note ('), 131.
___. its expansion and that of water,
note (1'), 109.
__. consequence of disturbing Its crys
tallization, note (1), 374.
__ how separated from the ores, 104
108.
lron, its qualiﬁes, 109.
——cast, or pig-iron, its different kinds,
note ('l, 108.
contains oxygen and carbon, 109;
process in the manufacture which
produces wrought iron, 109.
wrought, its qualities, 100, note
(ll),109, note, 110.
— its cohesive power, 111.
-— how drawn into wire, 111-113.
——- its ﬁbroslty, note (1'), 113.
—its hardness and elasticity, note
(9, 132.
—— its expansion and contraction, 113.
its lustre, 114.
malloability and welding, 116,
note (°), 112, note ('), 161, note
('), 110.
—— its inﬂummubility, 116. 117.
~— may be heated to a very high de
gree, note ('), 116.
~—- steel, in what itdiil‘ers from, 11'! ;
its qualities, 118‘; mode of
making it, 118, 119 ; properties
when manufactured, colours and
uses, 120-122. Magnet orload
stone, 100,122; its colours, 122,
123; its properties and general
diffusion, 123, 124; attractive
powers, 12-1, 195; ring of
Sir Isaac Newton, 125; acquisi
tion of magnetic power by
iron and steel, 126, 198, note
(z), 123; eﬂ‘ect of sulphur on
steel, 126; veneration of the
ancients for the magnet, 121;
earth compared to a magnet,
128.
-— magnetic, dug in masses out of all
parts of the earth, note (II), 123.
— directive power of the magnet,
128, note (1'), 128 ; stability of
the universe dependant upon it,
through the line of gravitation,
129, 130; preceding facts sup
port the identity of iron with
oxygen, 131.
monx. 55
n
I
Iron, found in all animal and vegetable
bodies, 131; its general utility,
131-133.
— the means by which the other
metals are rendered useful, note
(0,132.
— its medicinal virtues, note (1’),
132.
— existence in the blood, note (1),
442.
-_experiment of Zimmerman: its
mode of incrustation, note (ll),
113-115.
calculation of the quantity depo
sited by a four-horse coach, in
every 100 miles of its progress,
"on: (-), ass.
Iron-works, Maesteg, note, 368. .
Islands, new, note (‘), 328.
Joints of man, how formed, 207.
Kant, on attraction and repulsion, note
('), 22.
Language, 410, 411, note (1'), 411.
note (1'), 528.
Lapidescent juices, note ('), 258.
Laplace, his theory of the elastic origin
of our earth, note (°), 303, 304.
ans of life, 479-495, common
throughout nature, 1.
-—- primary and secondary, exhibited
in the molecules of matter,
note 0), 31, 520, .630, 632, 533.
~_~ Lord Verulam’s opinion on them,
note ('), 23, 646.
Leprosy, its prevalence in former times,
note (1'), 473.
Lihanul, Mount, note (“), 291.
Liebnitz, his theory of the earth, note
(i), 400
Life, progressive, l, 5, 219, note ('),
219.
_- its three stnges, l, 2.
Life, compared to the action of a steam
engine. note, 216.
— causes the progression of the
earth's surface, note ('),
333.
Light, 398, 390, 402-405, 406, 401.
subsequent to matter, 11.
Light, heat, and motion, belong to
the fetal life, 274.
produced by the combustion of
hydrogen and oxygen, note,
1198, 309.
a new mode ofdiﬂ'uling it, note:
a). (I), 403.
Lime-water, note ('), 78.
Limit to elasticity, note ('),499.
Line of gravitation, oi' the universe,
identical with the
line of Apsidea ;
divides the sun or
heart into two
cavities ; its pow
ers, 21-28-32.
scriptural allusion to it, 98.
of the planets, 39, 40, 52,
214-211-325, 320.
Lives, inferior and superior, 242, 340,
348, 349, 272, 512, 513, 614,
not: (t), 522-524.
their tau-existence, 446-447.
Loadatones, divided by Pliny into male
and female,note (°), 123.
a species of iron, note (t),
123.
Locomotion, 492-494.
in the mineral kingdom,
note (.), 315.
in plants, note (‘), 190.
Longevity of man, 241, 248.
Love of God, note ('), 481. This
principle in action at the creation
of all things, according to the
opinion of the Greeks, as re
corded by Aristophanea, note (+),
13, 14.
Luminous amanationa from animals,
note, 402.
558 raoax.
Machine, Man, must be made before it
is put in motion, note ('), 441.
Mackintosh, ML, on the altered length
of the year, note ('), 43].
Magnet, action of a galvanic wire
upon it, note (1'), 208.
all its properties exempliﬁed
by the earth, note ('), 128.
Magnetism, experiments on, notes, l28
131, 25.
and electricity", note (i), 39.
Malic, or apple acid, note (‘), 474.
Man, a machine, deﬁnite period ﬁxed
for its duration, 20L
seven organs united in his fabric,
4-“.
-— his stature deﬁnite, locomotion
necessary to attain it, 454
456.
periods in his existence, 458, 457.
—- origin of, 233, note (f),2~l3, note
(t), 346
his perfect state, 233, 234, 243.
— his disobedience, punishment, and
expulsion from Eden, 234, 235.
~-— part of the terrestrial surface he
ﬁrst inhabited, 246.
n labourer from the fall of Adam,
35].
—-—the carbonic acid produced by him
gravitates to the earth’s apex
to form its organs, 244 ; it re
nsccnds, 244.
-—— his ﬁrst triumph ; matter by him
divided into three sorts, £43.
-— his degeneracy, 261-283,- cause of
the deluge, 262, the present
‘ races, decomposition of the an
tediiuvian world has produced
them, 313.
-——changes in the race subsequent to
the deluge, 3.50, 357.
—— he leavens the earth. 357, is the
cause of all its changes, 358,
note ('), 3.55.
— the race destined to produce one
perfect individual, 800.
Man, changes about to take place in the
race, 379.
includes in himself every other
sphere, 348.
—— his reproduction twofold, 240.
—-—— he moulds the universal fcetus,
24].
— 3, 422-421. Machine formed by
decomposition, 241.
—- his relation to, and future iden
tity with, the universe, 439, 440.
-— in embryo, note ('), 350.
— a living stone ; his geological his
tory, 525, am (' ), 625.
-— his life dependant on the internal
part of his sphere, .327.
—~ a great, how produced and why,
now ('), 526.
n representative and part of the
Deity; obedience necessary to
their mutual preservation, 530.
—— a freeholder and leasehoider, his
eternal ascent and descent, 527.
his relation to the sphere on
which he moves, 52%.
his opposition to the will of God
about to produce a premature
destruction of this creation, .529.
-— the cause of the earth’s approach
ing destruction ; he must alter
his course, 587-539.
-—compellod to live for ever; his
exaltation or abasement de
pending on himself alone, 539.
—tho safety and fail growth of the
celestial fcetus depends upon
him, (>39.
—-— must. regain his
reason, 5-13.
-— all things to be learnt by the study
at himself, 545.
—— not perfect, but a part of per
faction, note ('), .529.
—- Perfect, only one in each sphere ;
hovv produced, 511.
-— the true God of his own
sphere. 512.
sphere ; the
6
INDEX. 559
Man, Perfect, answerable for the per
fections and impericc—
tions of His sphere,
537-539, 543—515.
God has commanded the
production from this
universe of 11 perfect
man, 542.
—_—- all other parts unite to
produce Him, 518, 521,525.
Manufactures, their effect on the health,
note (~), 359.
Mariner's needle, its power lost, note
(~), 430.
Materialism, Lord Brougham on, 4.
Matter, primitive, 10, l l.
Matter, Plato’s opinion on, note (‘),
10.
the direction in Which it
moves, note ('), 115.
its ascent, 49, 50, 334, note
(1'), 176.
its gravitation, 35.
its polarity and three stages,
note (t), 275.
it becomes organized by its
changes, 48, 495-497.
must be all organic in the
celestial foetus, 242.
its threefold division, univer
sal, l2.
how arranged in the plane
tary ovum, 41.
simple and compound, 46, 47.
has always been traced to
hydrogen and oxygen, 62.
its proportions in the uni
verse, note (1'), 413.
terrestrial, all diamond, 303,
304, 305.
Dr. Crombie on its identity
under ditl'ercnt forms, note
('1, 24
of two characters; living and
dead, 495, note, 338.
—-- indestructible, note ('), 238.
May», her ofﬁce in creation, according
to the Hindoo creed, note ('t'),
13.
Melioni, his experiment on light, note,
399.
Membrane, living and dead, 346.
all higher organizations
produced from it, note
('), 199.
Membrane, of the plant, 196, 198,199,
200, 201.
of man, 465-167, note, 416,
452, 453.
of the earth, 289. 290-304,
314, 31-}, 336-310, 354,
235, 391, 392, 405.
of the universe, 394-398
400-404.
205, 208, 213, 230, 231,
3-18, note (' ), 453, 501
508.
Mental and bodily powers, compared,
note (1), 4-16.
Mercury, 498-500.
Metals, formed by chemical process,
note, 107.
their increase, 367.
Meteors, note (t), 369, 370, 371.
Mind, note (1*), 449.
Mines, of iron and steel, howdiscoverod,
note ('), 100.
-—— of Andalusia, how produced, note
(~) 367.
—- comparison between the gold and
silver ones of America and the
coal mines of England, note, 389.
Mining, earthquake produced by it,
note (‘), 375; consequences
of excavation, note, 376.
and immoderate use of gas and
iron; the etl'ect thereby pro
duced on the earth, note ('),
374.
Monsters, note (1'), 2.63.
Moons, how produced, laws by which
governed; they pass through
the three stages of life, 57, 58.
——- their present stage, the fatal;
()0
560 lNDEX.
rotatory motion and seasons,
58, 27!.
Moon, analogous to the head of man,
note ('), 265.
organization of its parts and in
crease in size, 354, 355.
Dr. Herscheil on its spots, note
('), ass.
-——— it is approaching the earth, 385,
re-union of man to his prede
cessors about to take place,
544. 385-392.
Motion, subsequent to matter, ll, notc
(‘ i, 493.
calculation as to the origin of
terrestrial. note, 2%.
of the planet, :30, 5i.
earth’s,retur¢letl, note, 43].
Mountains, original liquefaction of the
present, note, 3H.
Mundane eg, 221.
Muscles, note (' , ‘207.
Muscles, attached to the head, note ('),
385.
Muscular motion, 486.
Museum, British, a ﬁne collection of
diamonds there, not: (t), 72.
Nature, how to judge rightly of, note
('), 532, laws of, note (1’),
532.
Neg-r0, a, liberated on ﬁnding a diamond
of a certain weight, note (1'), 70.
Nerves. 209, note ('), 442.
of the heart, note ('), 494.
~—--- optic, note (1), 447.
Nutriment of the animal fabric, 56, :37.
how conveyed to the planet,
42, 43.
Newton, on the indiviaihility of primal
atoms, note (t), 7.
his discovery of gravitation,
490-492.
Noah, the end will be as in the days of,
note, 389. 51.1, or t.
North Pole, 10, note ('), 40.
North Pole, points to the sun, 268.
cause of the year being
there equally divided into
summer and winter, 268.
its temperature, note ('),
279.
thier experienced by the
navigator, nole ('), 283.
Northern lights, note ('), 336.
Numbers, 424-427.
Oceans, Atlantic and Paciﬁc, 287.
Oleﬁant gal, 139.
Ourang Outang, note (’), “251
Organizalion, 242.
—-——-—- the result of necessity,
and progressive, note
(1), 238, note (t),
43.
according to Lucretius,
Buﬂ'on, Dr. Kirby, and
Swammerdam, is pro
duced from ﬂuidity,
note ('), 173.
opinion of Cuvier on,
477479.
how carried on in ﬂuids,
note (' ), 42.
of a plant, note(‘), 232.
of man, 206.
———-——-of the universe, 4i 4-422.
eti'ect nfsolar matter on
terrestrial, 272, 273.
Organs of man, note (‘), 416, 417.
..._-—_-__-- deposited, their three
fold division, 207.
their hoiling and freez
ing point, mode of in
crease, 20$.
all formed from the
heart, 207.
seven in number, 208.
how they communicate,
208.
stomach,iungs, and lirer,
inactive in the fcrtul,
210.
1NDEX. C,“ Oi
Organ: of man, heart, brain, and uterus,
241, 245.
Organs of the earth, deposited; their
oval and fcetai state,
238-240, 241, 245.
their mode of increase,
238, 239.
Origin of life, unknown, 10.
Oval shape, changes to the cordiform, 20.
Oral form of the earth, opinion of the
ancients respecting it, note
m, 221, 222.
Oval life, of the planets, 39.
on what its duration depends,
49,50.
of a plant, 191.
instance of its extended duration,
192.
Ovum must be formed before the fatal
life begins, 10.
of man, how formed, 205, note
(1'), 205.
its change to the foetal state,
205.
of the universe, 11- Its form,
origin, and laws by which go
verned; its three stages; its
size, 16, 17.
Ovum of the universe, its change to the
foetal state, 18, 19.
its threefold divi
sion, 11 and 12.
Ovum of the earth, 221.
of what composed, 222.
its colour, 222.
how deposited, 225.
its light and heat, whence
derived, 2.31.
Oxyds, 156, 157.
Oxygen, the term, whence derived, 153.
does not exist naturally in
a separate state, 153.
names bestowed on it by phi
losophers, and experiments
of Mr. Schoeie, 154.
-—-- its proportions, Lavoisier's ex
periment, 155.
Oxygen, itsquaiities and uses, 155, note
(1), 154. 102.
its importance as an agent,
155, 159.
it supports combustion, 100.
—_ when combustion takes place in
atmospheric air, it is always
present, 162. note (H), 154.
—— its use in respiration, 162, note
('), 155.
_ unites with hydrogen to pro
duce the ﬂuid, water, 163.
—— its combination with iightand
caloric, note I"), 154.
comes from the sun, is the
seed of all life, and always
accompanied by carbon, 179,
337-310.
-_ is matter in its mostcondensed
state, 62.
_— is the consolidated hydrogen,
181.
—— the base of all acids, 180.
— how deposited at our mirth,
note (I ), 151.
—_ not produced by the vegetable
kingdom, 179.
— necessary to germination, note
(-), 220.
— causes coloured
note ('), 437.
Oxygenation of blood, belongs to the
third life only, 213.
circulation,
Parables, note ('), 17.
Parasitical plants and animals, note ( '),
340-346.
Parasites, note ('). 467, note ('), 473.
-———~— 0f the earth, 236.
they form its crust or surface,
237.
produced from man’s body,
237, 238, 246. 534-536.
Parnsiticai races, their increase, notes,
380,3Sl, note ('), 53-1. )ule('), 379.
Parent-1, their ottice, 458462.
i'arhciiu, or mock suns, note ('), 29.
562 INDEX.
Parts, composing whole bodies, note ('),
405.
Patriarchs, 522, their longevity, note
(n, 248.
Pearls, their mode of formation, note
v), 239.
Periods of animal and vegetable repro
duction, note (‘), 273.
Petrifaction of animals at the deluge,
257-26].
Phirnix, note (i), 437.
I’igmentum Nigrum, note ('), 486.
Placenta,conveys nutriment to the heart,
206, note (1), 4l5.
Planetary power of reproduction, 57.
matter, its division into three
forms, 48.
Planets, how produced, 35.
' scriptural reference to their
deposition, 40, 4] .
_— stationary in the oval life, 43.
enter into the fcetal life, 48.
their motions, note (i), 5-1.
- revolution round the sun, note
(i), 5“
their density governed by their
distance from the sun, 43-45.
Planets, their variation in size, notch),
53.
designated by the same charac
ters as the metals, note ('),
44.
cause of their luminous ap
pearance, note ('), 400, 40].
their third stage not yet ar
rived, 58.
Plotinus, his opinion, and that of other
writers that God had created from
eternity one perfect being, nolc
(')r 3
l’lumbago,itsuae, colour, and lustre,l33.
Polar inﬂuence, human body governed
by it, note ('), 509.
Polarization, exhibited in the molecules
of matter, note ('), 37.
P0108, 274-286.
--- North and South, 21, 2'1.
l’olea, Aristotle's opinion as to their
position, and that of lheheavenl
at large, note ('), 54.
North, Captain Rose's acoouutof
it, 283-286, note ('), 276.
—— South, Captain Cook ’s description
of the, 280-282.
——- South, danger of navigating it,
note (2). 282.
Pole-star, apparent revolution of the
celestial bodies round the, note, 25.
Primary organs, 209.
Primordial, oftbe human body, note (1),
206.
egg, of the Brahmins, l3.
Propagation, twofold, 240, note (1’),
248, 476. it", 198, 20l-203,
512, 518-521.
Progression and retrogression, 347-350.
Pulse, note ('), 462.
Pyramid, the form assumed by mutter
according to Plato when it became
fire. Derivation of the term, and
manner in which worshipped, notes,
30, 31.
Quadrupeds, the oriparous of earlier
origin than the \‘iviparous, note
(0,240.
Rain, aeronautical observations of Mr.
Green on its formation, note(' ),
293.
—- theory of Dr. James Hutton. its
periodicity in some COUIIl-l'ltta.
Monsoons. its partial distri
bution. Calculations of Sir
John Leslie and Dr. Thomson
as to the annual quantity which
falls. Mr. Green on the sound
produced by its leaving a cloud,
notes, 294, 295.
Rainbow, note ('), 405. A tmoapheric
phenomenon observed by Mr.
Green, note (‘), 405, 406.
Red snow and drew, 18", notes, 18R,
1w, 190.
lNDF-X. 563
Reduction, process of, note (t), 150.
Reﬁning, process of, note (II), 109.
Reﬂexion and refraction, note (°), 403.
Religions, note (i), 528.
Repulsion, 481, 485.
Rest, earth’s primitive state that of, 225.
Retina, note (t), 447.
Rocks, the base,ot whet composed, 305.
of inl'usoriul formation, how
organized, 315-326.
rents or divisions in,335, note(°),
3315.
Rod otiron, ‘28, 490.
Ross, Sir John, his estimate of the
annual amount of rain and snow
at the North Pole, note ('), 302.
Rotation of the planets, 52-54.
Saliva, note, 199.
Snlivation of a ship's crew by accident,
note, 490.
Scale of the organs of man, note('). 208.
Seas, how produced, their names, 320.
their proportion on the earth's
surface, note (f), 279.
their current, note, 219. 230, 231.
Sea, its luminous appearance, note 327.
Seasons of the earth, 269, 270.
moon, 271.
Seeds and eggs, their analog , their re
Ceptinn ofnutriment, note('), 227.
Seeds, Spalanzani's experiments, and the
etl'oct of wuterpn them; inge
nuity of the god-ﬂy, notes, 180.
—~ puriﬁed by germination, note (1'),
235.
~— their memhrune, 501.
their lengthened vitality, 192, note
(~), 193.
Separation of matter by organization.
209.
Serpent-ﬂower, note, 202.
Sexes, note: (‘), (T), .510. 508-511.
Shapes of mutter, as developed by the
vegetable kingdom, 198.
Shell, how produced, note ('), 402;
cause of its formation. note, 7163.
7_-—a-Q__-_-..Vf-~ --_ __ - ._ - _---_;3_ 7-i
Shoots of plants, their annual develop
ment, note ('), 57.
Signs of the end of the world, note (1'),
352.
Silex, note U), 310; specimens of sili
ciﬁed fossils, note (1'), 310-3l2.
Silica, interior of animalculaa consists
of it, note ('), 325.
Silicitied trees, the cause, 309-313.
Silk, how produced, notes, 500.
Silkworm, 503-507.
Singular phenomenon, note, 380.
Skeletons of Indians overgrown with
silver, note ('), 483.
Sky or ﬁrnnunent, note ('), 401; its
appearance from Mom Blunc, note
(' ), 408.
Sleep, 450, 451.
statues of, note (‘ ), 22.").
Snow, phenomenon observed in an
aeronautical expedition, note
('), 290.
—- its perpetual descent, 290-293,
298.
—-- its limits, 300-303.
--- thought by Anaxngoras to be
black, note (°), 172.
—— storms, their luminous nature,
note ('), 291.
$01, name given the sun, applied to gold
by the early chemists, note, 72.
Solar rays bring forth the insects from
their eggs, note ('), 179.
matter, 37, 38, 39, 223, 224.
—- atmosphere, it! condensution, 36,
.‘17.
Solidity, Sir Isaac Newtonend Lucretius
on, 6.
of primitive mutter, Newton
and Priestley on the, 17, 40.
its increase, 223.
Solids and ﬂuids, their proportion in
our planet, 271.
Sonnd,408-411, note; ('), (1'), (D,
400, note, 410, note ('), ~11], note
(t). 111.
Source of planetary lite, 51, 52.
564 INDEX.
Space, 413, 414, note ('), 413.
Speciﬁc gravity: arrangement of ani
mals by, 184.
Sphere, each animal has a, 347, 848,
624-628, 541.
man should possess his own, and
conform to its conditions,
531, 532, 541, 543.
a new one. about to be dis
covered, 5“.
Spine, 418, not: (1'), 418.
Spirit of God: its motion on the face
of the waters, not: (‘),
13.
--- man, its separation from the
descending body, and ascent to
a new sphere, 621.
Spontaneous combustion, note, 853.
generation, under utmo
spheric inﬂuence, 186
189.
Spring, the ﬁrst season, note ('), 270,
271.
Sports adapted to infancy, 458.
Stages of crystallization, deﬁnite, note
(‘), 240
Stages of life, table of the, 2.
Stars, doctrine of the Greek philoso
phers concerning them, note
(0; 43
—— opinion of the ancients on tin
appearance of new ones, that
which appeared at the birth
of Christ, note ('), 397.
— produced by the decomposition of
the solar boundary, note,
398.
_— meteoric, circulation round the
sun of a cloud of, note (1'),
60.
—-—- suddenly produced,
224.
falling, note, 60.
Statues in Easter Island of gigantic
form, note ('), thin-258.
Steam, 388-390; its power, note ('),
389.
note, 223,
Steam-engines, improved, note (I), 50.
explosion of, note ('),
390.
Steam, gas, and iron machinery misap
plied by man, 310, 37]; cause of
the premature change of the earth,
370-374.
Steel, proved by experimentto be formed
ofironand carbon, note (3), 118.
-— its hardness. note, 11].
new mode of making it, note('),
122.
not malleable when cold, note (‘),
121.
does not change colour when
heated in hydrogen gas, note ('),
120.
Stones, heathen worship of, note (i ),
2%, note ('), 33.
Strata of the earth, formed by decom
position, 341.
Strikes of the cotton-spinners, note ('),
537.
Sulphur, with diﬂiculty converted into
vapour, note (1'), 134.
combined with iron in pit-coal,
note (‘), 135.
contained in dew, note(‘), 177.
Sun, opinions of philosophers respecting
it, notes ('), (1'), 34.
——-—-the primary object of worship after
the ﬂood, note ('), 209.
— how worshipped by the Persians,
note (1), 33.
the primary organ of the universe:
source of its life, laws, motion,
heat, and light, 32, 33.
--—— its combustion, 3-1.
—- its particles, of what composed, 62
83 ; their colour, note ('), 400,
note ('), 401.
—- spots on the, note (‘), 433, 431.
its conversion to charcoal, 432.
-—opinion of Anaximenes on it, note,
434.
Superior life: the brain, its centre or
heart, 443.
lNDEX. 565
'l‘aint in the potato crop, note, 380.
Temperature, deﬁnite, necessary to
lcetal lite, note, 195.
of the earth, 214.
Three stages of life, note ('), 220,341
346.
of matter, 219, 220.
of the planet, 48.
Threefold division of matter, 24, 490.
of the universe, 394.
of the earth, 275, 289.
of the earth’s surface,
336-338.
of organization, note
('), 245.
of the egg, note. (1),
24, note ('), 235.
Threel'old state of matter united in one,
61].
Thunder, artiﬁcial; how produced,
note, 536.
Tides, cause of the, 271, 272.
Touch, note, 442.
Turnip-ﬂy, note (1'), 33B.
Unity, hydrogen used to denote, note
('), 42.3.
Universe, Plato on the origin of the, 3.
endowed with animal life, 2.
the macrocosm compared to
man, 3.
progressively created, not at
one stroke, 5.
its three stages oflife, 2.
its ﬁrst or solid stage, 6.
its present or ﬂuid stage, 6.
its change to the locomotive
stage already commenced,
43], 432.
how effected, 432-437.
its oxygenation, 436, 437.
Uterus, 209, note ('), 415, 4.52, 453.
Vallisneria, note, 510.
Vegetable life, its three stages, 190.
its progression, note ('),
439.
Vegetable life, its identity with the fretnl
note (1’), 216, note ('),
911.
on the minute scale, note
('), 188.
Vegetable, animal produced from the,
201, 1102, 20:1, note (r),
201, note ('), 430.
respiration, not: ('), 191,
animal life produced by it,
201.
Veins and arteries, 64, 56.
Vessels of the fcetus generate bone,
note (1), 207.
Via Lactea, its divisions, of what com
posed, variation in width, compelled
to pass through the three stages of
life, 59, 60, 61.
Virtue and vice, note ('), 529.
Vital principle, note ('), 497, sought
after without success,
168.
Vitality, developed by matter when ex
posed to atmospheric inﬂuence,
note (1), 186, 181.
Volcanoes, three sorts of matter ejected
by them, note, 335.
Water, ancient and modern opinions
that from it all things have
originated, note (1), l70,noto
('), 422.
how worshipped, nata, 423.
opinion of Kirwan on its ele
ments, note (1), 163.
the gravitating element, of what
composed, 62, 163, 292.
Water, produced by the union of
solar and terrestrial matter,
how deposited, 292-296. ac
companying phenomena, 296
300.
produced in the combustion of
charcoal, note (it), 164.
Water-iron, note (H), 165.
Water, crystals produced from it, note
(§), 105, 100.
566 INDEX.
Water, celestial, nole('), 166.
an illuminated gas produced from
it, note, 3981.
monads composing a drop,
note ('), 243.
“deposition of earth or land from
it, note ('), 287.
change of matter by ﬁre into,
120!!! ('), 284.
its conversion to steam, note ('),
278.
not intended to be divided into
its elements, 371.
Water-spouts, note, 278.
Waters, phenomenon of the Black, note
(1'), 328.
Weeds, not“, 187.
their ﬁrst stage, notes, 193.
Whewell, Professor, his opinion on the
oriqin 0f the solar system, note ('),
6.
Woman, her importance to society,
458-461.
Word, the, Mia ('),51 I.
y Warm, where they must abound, the
cause, note (1'), 463, note (1),
461.
mun formed from them, 46",
47:7, 476.
their development, 468-473.
Zinc, concrete mass of iron and, note,
“5.
Zodiac, the third or aeriform division of
the universal fmtus,58.
whence the term, 68.
_ its division into twelu: parts,
53.
_-—its spheres, ofwhai composed,
395.
, its mode of organization com
pared to that of the earth'l
surface, 395-398.
mm] an inhabitant ofthe, 396~
398.
Zodiacal light, note ('), 29.
Zone, how divided by the Chnldaaug,
nole ('), 69.
Zoophytes, note ('), 330.
Printed b; i). Adlmd, BarthlrlomovI-‘C-l‘on.
