{"name":"Stonehenge A Temple Restored To The British Druids","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1740__stukeley___stonehenge_a_temple_restored_to_the_british_druids.pdf","mytitle":"Stonehenge A Temple Restored To The British Druids","mylang":"de"}
S T O N E H E N G E
A
T E M P L E
R E S T O R' D
T O T H E
25zitiſh : B B Ki J B S.
By IV I L L I A M S TU KE L E Y, M. D.
Rećtor of All Saints in S T A M F o R D.
–Deus est qui non mutatur in ævo, M A N I L I U s.
L O AV D O /V:
Printed for W. I N N y s and R. M A N B y, at the Weſt End
of St. Paul's.
M Dcc.xL. sảse
vey ./carce - , "siis :
* ( 3g6 - 28 et P : 556
| sé -
|-|
|
!
1
-
erz. Z.42zz/źr./z/2
/zz2zz/Z/2?
c_ /zc/zzz a/a/(%/e
----
* - , ------- ----- – -
To His G R A C E
P E R E G R I N E
Duke of Ancaster and Kesteven,
Hereditary Lord Great Chamberlain of
E N G L A N D, &c. &c.
May it pleaſe your G R A C E,
O accept of this attempt to illuſtrate
T one of the nobleſt antiquities now left
upon earth. I am confident your Grace will
not diflike it, either becauſe it is a religious
antiquity, or becauſe it belongs to our own
COuntry.
A Your
D E D V C A 7" I O N.
Your Grace beſt fhews your regard to reli
gion, by a conſtant attendance on its duties,
in the fervice of the church; and by a regu
lar praćtice of its precepts, in their whole
extent. And as you are juftly fenſible, the
foundation of religion reſts on a careful obſer
vance of the fabbath: you not only ſtudy to
encourage it, by your own great example;
but likewife difcountenance, that too faſhi
onable cuſtom of travelling on fundays, and
other profanations thereof: which are the
fure root of national corruption, the fure
prefage of national ruin.
Nor are your Graces virtues more confpi
cuous, in your religious and moral charaćter,
than in the love of your country. This you
inherit with the blood that runs in your veins;
this you derive from an immemorial feries of
noble anceſtors, renowned in our annals, for
their ſteady allegiance to the fovereign power;
for their vigor in ſupport of the conſtitution
both in church and ſtate; that have often
hazarded
D E D I C A 7 I O N.
hazarded and ruined their fortunes, and
poured out their blood, in its defence. I
might inſtance particularly, the great part
they bore in the Reformation, the Reſtora
tion and the Revolution.
After the honour I have enjoyed of having
been long known to your Grace: I could en
large upon the amiable qualities of your pri
vate life, your domeſtic and focial virtues,
your humane and beneficent diſpoſition to all
around you, friends or dependants, or thoſe
ofyour own family. With truth I might fay,
that you never refuſed to ferve any perfon
that applied to you, where it was in your
power: that you never knowingly did an un
kind, an injurious thing to any perfon: that
no one ever withdrew griev’d from your pre
fence. I can fafely affirm, and fear no con
tradićtion, that juſtice, honour and honeſty
are fome of the real jewels, that adorn your
Grace's coronet. And they, at this time of
day, receive a feafonable luftre, from your
high ſtation, and illuſtrious birth.
But
D E D I C A 7 I O N.
But the agreableneſs of the ſubjećt infenſi
bly drew me from my main purpoſe, which
was to makethis publick acknowledgment, of
the great favours your Grace has confer'd
upon me: and to beg leave to profefs myſelf,
May it pleafe your G R A c E,
Tour G R Ac F's most humble,
And most devoted fervant,
jan. 1. 1739-4o.
William Stukeley.
P R E F A C E.
! few years ago I ffent / ne time every stimmer in vietsing, meastring,
and conſidering the works gf the ancient Druids in our Iſland; I men
thoſe remarkable circles of Stones which we find all over the kingdom,
many of which I have féen, but of many more I have had accounts.
Their greatneſs and number astonist'd me, nor need I be afraid to /ay, their beauty
and deſign, as well as antiquity, drew my particular attention. I could not help
carrying my inquiries about them as far as I was able. My studies this way hace
produc'd a vast quantity of drawings and writing, whicổ conſider'd as ai intire
work, may thus be intitled,
Patriarchal C H R 1 s T I A N 1 T y :
O R ,
A Chronological H I S T O R Y
O F T H E
Origin and Progreſs of true Religion, and of Idolatry.
The parts of which the whole is compos’d are theſê:
I. Canon Moſaicæ Chronologiæ, or the year of Moſes fettled, by which le
reckons time in the history of the old world; the time of the year fix’d when cre
ation was begun. This is done in a new manner, and becomes an intire / stem of
chronologyfrom the creation to the Exodus, and is exemplified by many particular
Kalendars of the most remarkable tranſactions; which are proofs of the truth of
the Canon. There are inter/perſed a great many astronomical and historical illu
strations of the Jacred pages, particularly Sanchoniathon's genealogies, and Ma
nethon's Egyptian Dynasties, are applied in a new Method to the history and
chronology of the Scriptures.
II. Melchiſedec, or a delineation of the first and patriarchal religion, from
the best light we can gather in the facred history; and from the most ancient hea
then customs, which were remains of that religion. In this Treatif it is flewn,
that the first religion was no other than Christianity, the Moſàic diſpenſation, as
a veil, intervening; that all mankind from the creation had a knowledge of the
plurality of perſons in the Deity.
III. Ofthe mysteries of the ancients, one of the first deviations from true reli
gion, to idolatry; this is chiefly purfü'd in an explication of the famous table of
Ifis, or Bembin-table, publiſh’d by Pignorius, Kircher, &c. wherein that know
ledge which the ancients had concerning the true nature of the Deity, is further
explain'd,
( a ) IV. A dist
P R E F A C E.
IV. A diſcourſe on the hieroglyphic learning of the ancients, andof the origin of
the alphabet of letters. Very many hieroglyphic monuments of the Egyptians are
explain'd, more eſpecially thoſe that relate to their true notions of the perſóns in the
Deity. The time and rife of the alphabet of letters is deduc'd from a new founda
tion. The preſent /ậuare Hebrew characters are fhewn to be the primitive idea of
detters, from whence all others are deriv'd. Whence the idea of every letter was
taken ? an explication of all the old Hebrew coins with Samaritan charačiers.
V. The patriarchal history, particularly of Abraham, is largely purfü'd; and
rhe deduction of the Phoenician colony into the Iſland of Britain, about or/fion after
his time; whence the origin of the Druids, of their Religion and writing; they
hrought the patriarchal Religion along with them, and /ôme knowledge of/fmbols
or hieroglyphics, like thoſe of the ancient Egyptians; they had the notion and ex
pečiation of the Meffiah, andof the time of theyear when he was to be born, of his
office and death.
VI. Of the Temples of the Druids in Britain, their religious rites, orders, fa
crifices, groves, tombs, their curſus's, places of/forts and exercifes, &c. particu
larly an ample and accurate deſcription of that stupendous temple of theirs at
Abury in North Wiltſhire, the most august work at this day upon the globe of the
earth; with many prints of ground-plots, views and admeafürements of all its
parts; of their manner of Jepulture; an account of my digging into many of their
harrows and tumuli, with drawings of them, &c.
VII. Of the celebrated Stonehenge, another Temple of theirs, with prints of
that work; an account ofthe barrows I dug up, and what was diſcover’d in them ;
of the knowledge the Druids bad of the magnetical compaß, and conječtures of the
particular times when theſe works were made, long before Cæſar arriv'din Britain.
I propost to publiſh theſe two first, and proceed to the ſpeculative parts after
wards; reſerving them, God willing, to the maturer time of my life.
My intent is (beſides preſerving the memory of theſe extraordinary monuments,
.fo much to the honour ofour country, now in great danger of ruin) to promote, as
much as I am able, the knowledge and praćfice of ancient and true Religion; to
revive in the minds of the learned the ſpirit of Christianity, nearly as old as the
Creation, which is now languiſhing among us; to restore the first andgreat Idea of
the Deity, who has carry'd on the fame regular andgolden chain of Religion from
the beginning to this day ; to warm our hearts into that true Jenſe of Religion,
which keeps the medium between ignorant füperstition and learned free-thinking,
between /lovenly fanaticiſm and popi/b pageantry, between enthu/ia/in and the ra
tional worſhip of God, which is no where upon earth done, in my judgment, better
than in the Church of England. And feeing a ſpirit of Sceptici/in has of late
become f0 faſhionable and audacious as to strike at the fundamentals of all revela
tion, I have endeavoured to trace it back to the fountain of Divinity, whence it
flows ; and fhew that Religion is one /ystem as old as the world, and that is the
Christian Religion; that God did not leave the rational part of his creation, like
the colony of an ant-bill, with no other guide than instinč7, but proportion'd his
diſcoveries to the age of the world, to the learning, wiſdom, and experience of it ;
as a wife parent does now to his children. I fball /bew likewife, that our prede
ceffors, the Druids of Britain, tho' left in the extremest west to the improvement of
their own thoughts, yet advanc'd their inquiries, under all diſadvantages, to fich
heights, as ſhould make our moderns afham'd, to wink in the fin-fhine of learning
and religion. And we may with reafón conclude, there was fomewhat very ex
traordinary in thoſe principles, which prompted them to fuch a noble /pirit as pro
duced theſe works, still viſible with us, which for grandeur, /implicity and anti
guity, exceed any ºf the European wonders, Thaf
P R E F A C E.
That the doćirines and works ofthe Druids have bitherto been /6 little confider
ed (ſince authors only tranſcribe from one to another, the few remaining ſêraps to
be found in claffic writers) was an incentive to me likewiſè in the following at
tempt, and at the fame time it pleads for me, and beſpeaks the reader's favour.
I want likewife the great advantages to be had from a knowledge of the remaining
Celtic languages, books, manuſcripts, and history, the Corniſh, Welſh, Iriſh,
Highland, &c. the chief repoſitory now of their doctrines and customs ; /o that in
my own opinion I may very well/ay with the poet,
Interea Dryadum filvas & faxa fequamur
Intaćtas, tua Mecænas haud mollia justa. Virgil.
And tho' there has been oflate a large volume publiſh'd on the ſubject ofStone
henge, yet we may well /ay there has nothing been wrote upon the ſubječi. Nor
have I any other notion of this performance, than that it is as a first attempt to
fay fomething upon thoſe famous philoſophers and priests the Druids, who are never
ſpoken of in antiquity but with a note of admiration; and are always rank'd with
the Magi of the Perfians, the gymnoſophists of the Indians, the prophets and hie
rophants of the Egyptians, and thoſe /ört of patriarchal priests, whoſe orders com
menc'd before idolatry began; from whom the Pythagoreans, Platoniſts, and Greek
philoſophers learn'd the best things they knew. To clear away rubbiſh, and lay a
foundation only, in this difficult and obſcure work, is doing /ômewhat. The method
of writing which I have chofè is a diffuſive one, not pretending to a formal and
flif/cholastic proof of every thing Ifay, which would be odious and irkſome to the
reader, as well as myſelf. The knowledge I have acquired in theſë matters, was
from examining and studying their works; the proofs are deriv'd from distant and
différent topicks, and it would be very inconvenient to marfbal them / llogistically
in a work of this nature; the proof reſults from the intire work; in all matters of
/6 great antiquity it must befound out by the reader; and to one that has proper
Jagacity andjudgment, conviction will steal upon him inſenſibly, if I am not miſ:
taken; and he will own the evidence in general, is as strong as the nature of the
fubjeći will bear, or requires.
It was very diſagreeable to me that I was forc'd to combat against a book pub
list'd in the name of the celebrated Inigo Jones, for whofè memory I have the
greatest regard. I wonder the publiſher of that work did not think of a very ealý
method to convince himſelf that he was in an error. If Stonehenge is a Roman
work, it was certainly built by the Roman /cale; had be reduc'd his own meafüres
to that standard, he would have feen the abſurdity of his opinion; for we cannot
think that a temple, or elegant building, as he would have it, fhould not fhew its
founders by the /cale on which it is form’d; they are all fračtions in the Roman
Jeale, undoubted evidence that the Romans had no hand in it. For there is no
meaning, no deſign in the choice ofthe meaſures, neither in general nor particu
lar; a thing unworthy of a great architeti, or a great deſign. But it appears
very evident to me, that Inigo Jones had little or no part in that work, eſpecially
as it is moulded at preſent ; and I think I have reaſon to beof opinion that he never
drew the deſigns therein publiſhed, becauſe I ſhould be unwilling to/ay be knowingly
falſified them. I have very much fhortened what Ihad to ſay against that book,
becauſe I have no love for wrangling, and barely mention'd what was neceffary,
that the reader may have a true notion of this noble antiquity.
*
"/. TAB.I.
Dzzzzzz/
rz&0%
-- AA'
}
|
}
||
}/§
|-|Š
-
4/Ż.
. Nazz
/h/
Faza
G 17.
zacz, rz
;-----
/
-
-
S T O N E H E N G E
A W O R K Of the
25zitiſh Bzuids
D E S C R I B ' D.
C H A P. I.
Of the Situation ofStonehenge in general. That it was a temple of
the Druids, of the patriarchal mode, who were a most ancient
oriental colony. In luter times, the Belgæ from the continent,
conquer'd this country from them. Whence theſe stones were
hrought ? Of their nature, magnitude, weight. Of the mea
fure of the Druids, the ancient Hebrew cubit, and its propor
tion to the Engliſh foot. -
TH E Wiltſhire downs, or Saliſbury plain, (as commonly call'd) for
extent and beauty, is, without controverſy, one of the moſt delight
ful parts of Britain. But of late years great encroachments have
been made upon it by the plough, which threatens the ruin of this
fine champain, and of all the monuments of antiquity thereabouts. Monu
ments, we can ſcarce ſay, whether more wonderful in themſelves, more ob
ferv'd, or leſs underſtood! among them, Stonehenge has been eminent from the
remoteſt ages, tho' 'tis not the greateſt, moſt confiderable, or moſt ancient.
But 'tis my intent to begin my diſcourſe from it, becauſe the lateſt, and from
thence proceed upwards in our inquiries, about the times and authors of theſe
ftupendous works, the temples of the Druids in our Iſland: for I cannot doubt
that Stonehenge was fuch. The idea we conceive of the diſtance of time, when
theſe kind of works were made, cannot be ill-form'd, if we confider, that the
utmoſt accounts of 'em we have in writing, are from the Britons, the remains
of the people who lived here, at the time of the Roman invaſion. This is men
tion d in fòme manuſcripts of Ninnius before the Saxons and Danes came over.
And the oldeſt Britons ſpeak of this only by tradition, far above all memorial.
They wonder'd at Stonehenge then, and were as far to feek about the founders
and intent of it, as we now. They have recourſe to magic, as is uſual, when
they would account for any thing ſeemingly fo much above human power, to
accompliſh. They tellus, theſe ſtones of immenſe bulk were brought from a
plain, in the middle of Ireland, and the like. Which reports give us only no
obſcure hint of their true authors, the Druids, who were fam'd for magic,
- '' B ' ' and
J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
TAB. I.
and were driven laſt into Ireland, in the time of the Romans. There they built.
fuch like works again, or their brethren had built before; till Christianity, to
which the greateſt and pureſt part of their own doćtrine was akin, foon put
an end to their polity, which the Roman arms could not do. And they em
brac'd that religion, to which their own opinions and rites had fo direct a ten
dency. This is the ſentiment of Origen on Ezekiel iv. And 'tis ſufficiently
evident, if wc confider, that the firſt planters of Chriſtianity in Ireland, im
mediately converted the whole iſland, without fo much as the blood of one
martyr. Nay, the Druids themſelves, at that time the only national priests,
embraced it readily, and fome of them were very zealous preachers of it, and
effećtual converters of others. For inſtance, the great Columbanus himſelf was
a Druid: the apoſtle of Ireland, Cornwall, &c. We need not be ſurpriz'd at
this, when we affert, that there is very much reaſon to believe, theſe famous
philoſophic priests came hither, as a Phanician colony, in the yery earlieft
times, even as foon as Tyre was founded : during the life of the patriarch
Abraham, or very foon after. Therefore they brought along with them the
patriarchal religion, which was fo extremely like Christianity, that in effećt it
differ'd from it only in this; they believed in a Mefiah who was to come into
the world, as we believe in him that is come. Further, they came from that
very country where Abraham liv'd, his fons and grandfons; a family God al
mighty had ſeparated from the groſs of mankind, to ſtifle the feeds of idola
try; a mighty prince, and preacher of righteouſneſs. And tho' the memoirs
of our Druids are extremely ſhort, yet we can very evidently diſcover from
them, that the Druids were of Abraham's religion intirely, at leaft in the ear
lieſt times, and worſhipp'd the ſupreme Being in the fame manner as he did,
and probably according to his example, or the example of his and their com
mon anceſtors.
All this I ſhall prove, în the purſuit of this work. But before we come to
fpeculation, intend to give an exaćt deſcription of their feveral temples, and the
like works; for ſuch will be a good foundation for us to build upon. That
we may proceed from things evident and more known, to thoſe leſs known,
and which we defign to make evident, as well as we are able, and the nature
of it will permit. A matter ſo immers'd in the dark miſt of time, where very
few ſcatter'd traces remain, muſt needs beſpeak the reader's candor. The dig
nity of the ſubjećt will excuſe my boldneſs in attempting one fo difficult. And
however I ſucceed in accounting for theſe wonderful works; at leaft, I ſhall be
inſtrumental in preſerving their memory, in givingjuft drawings of them.
Stonehenge, by the extravagant grandeur of the work, has attraćted the eyes
and admiration of all ages. After the reformation, upon the revival of learning
among us, the curious began to confider it more intimately, I cannot fay fuc
ceſsfully. Mr. Camden roſe as the fun of antiquity, that put out former lights,
and, like Cæſar, affrights all that value a reputation, from attempting any thing
in his way. His great ſkill in Roman learning, and our Engliſh hiſtory, only
enabled him to be, as it were, filent on Stonehenge. He ſaw with excellent
judgment, that neither Roman nor Engliſh had place there, or could ferve to il
luftrate it. He writes modeftly, as his manner was; “ Of theſe things I am
“ not able fo much to give an accurate account, as mightily to grieve, that
“ the founders of this noble monument cannot be trac'd out.” He could not
perſuade himſelf that either Romans, Saxons or Danes had any hand in it. And
as for his repreſentation of it in pićture, I verily believe, it was drawn only
from fancy or memory, or by fome engraver from his oral deſcription. A. D.
162o, king fames I. being at the earl of Pembroke's feat at Wilton, and agreea
bly ſurpriz’d with the fight of Stonehenge, conſulted the famous architećt Inigo
fones, upon it; thinking it a matter in his way. This great man, who de
fervedly may be ſtiled the Engliſh Vitruvius, gave his opinion of it, as a Ro
man work; and left, I ſuppoſe, ſome few indigeſted notes in writing there
upon.
A \\
|
§Š,§
|;
\\ ,
}*
W
§
WAR
"
\\
MWAW
NANNA
NANMV
MW
N
"")
\\
* N RR
- N
FÖRÄN
w w
R
N N
' , "W
V /
EI
WWW
W |
|
11
WW
|
| (WWF
|
-
III. |- E, !| 1
W
1 \ ,
l' . » "
| "I w.
* *
|
|
|
|
:
a st
\\ \\
RR \ A
w
*
s* ~
x & S S s s s.
*s
,
s
RNRA * : RYSSE
----
RNA \ .
FA TA *
S
-
D E s c R 1 B E D.
upon. From which his fon-in-law fohn Webb compos'd an intire treatife, en
deavouring to prove it. But they that are acquainted with Roman architećture,
or have conſider'd Stonehenge, muſt needs be of a different opinion. And as
my Lord Biſhop of London well obſerves, in his notes on Camden, “it cannot be
“ ſafe to cloſe with Mr. fones, tho’ his book otherwife be a learned and ingeni
“ ous piece.” Inigo fones lived 3o years after this, and yet Mr. Webb makes an
apology for his work, “ that if he had furviv'd to have done it, with his own
“ hand, it would have been better.” But 'tis very reaſonably believ'd, that tho’
was an extraordinary genius in architećture, yet he wanted many
qualifications for an author, eſpecially in ſuch a work as Stonehenge. ’Tis my
opinion, that had his architećtonic ſkill been united to Mr. Camden's learning,
he could never have demonſtrated Stonehenge to be a Roman work. After
wards, Dr. Charlton publiſh'd a piece againſt Webb's performance, and certain
ly has ſaid enough to overthrow it, tho’ he could not with equal ſucceſs esta
bliſh his own opinion, that it was the work of the Danes. Whereas Olaus M’or
mius finds no fuch monuments among the Gothic nations: which, as Mr. T%
land obſerves, is anſwer ſufficient to his allegation. Webb anſwer'd the Doćtor's
book, and by turns effećtually demoliſh'd his opinion, but could not still vin
dicate his own. Yet from all their diſputations, no ſpark was ſtruck, towards
a diſcovery of the real truth. What is the worſt part in both performances of
Mr. Webb, his repreſentation of the real monument in his drawings, is fi&titi
ous. And, as Mr. Aubry rightly obſerves, “in endeavouring to retrieve a piece of
“ architećture in Vitruvius, he abuſes the reader with a falſe repreſentation ofthe
“ whole.” It requires no great pains to prove this, nor need we take much time
to be fatisfy'd in it: the work is still extant. As foon as ajudicious eye comes
upon the ſpot, we diſcern that Webb's equilateral triangles forming the cell are
fancies: his three entrances acroſs the ditch are fo too; and that he has turn'd
the cell a fixth part from its true fituation, to favour his imaginary hypotheſis.
But 'tis againſt my inclination to find fault with the labours of others, nor do
I thereby ſeek to bribe the reader in my own favour. I had a great pleaſure for
feveral years together, in viewing and examining theſe noble remains of our
anceſtors. What I wrote about them, was for my private amuſement, and that
of friends. And I publiſh them only for the honour of my country, and in
hopes that ſuch a publication will not be unſerviceable to religion; which is
my ultimate view.
Tho' Stonehenge be the proudeſt fingularity of this fort, in the world, as far
as we know : yet there are fo many others, manifeſtly form’d upon the fame,
or kindred defign, by the fame meaſure, and for the fame purpoſe, all over the
Britanic iſles; that we can have no room to doubt of their being made by the
fame people, and that by direćtion of the Britiſh Druids. There are innume
rable, from the land's end in Cornwall, to the utmoſt northern promontory in
Scotland, where the Roman power never reach'd. They are to be found in all
the iſlands between Scotland and Ireland, ifle of Man, all the Orkney iflands,
&c. and numerous in Ireland itſelf. And there is no pretence, as far as I can
fee, for any other perſons or nations being the founders of them. They are
circles of ſtones, generally rude, of different diameters, upon elevated ground,
barren, open heaths and downs; chiefly made of ſtones taken from the fur
face of the ground. There are no remembrances of the founders, any other
than an uninterrupted tradition of their being ſacred; that there is medicinal
virtue in them; that they were made by the Iriſh; that they were brought
from Afric; that they were high-places of worſhip; fanćtuaries; bowing, ado
ring places; and what names they commonly have, intimate the fame thing.
And in many places the expreſs remembrance and name of Druids remain,
and the people bury their dead in or near them to this day, thinking them ho
ly ground. Mr. Toland in his hiſtory of the Druids, p. 23. tells us, “ In
“ Gealcoffa's mount in Iniſoen in the county of Dunegal, a Druideſs of that
- - ** name
S 7' 0 N E H E N G E
TA B.
XXXIV.
TAB. II.
“ name lived; it fignifies white-legg'd, according to the ancient manner in
“ Homer's time. On that hill is her grave and her temple, being a fort of di
“ minutive Stonehenge, which the old Iriſh, at this day, dare not any way
“ profane.” Many instances of this fort, of all theſe particulars, we have in
our iſland: particularly the temple on Temple-downs by Abury. Whatever is
dug up in or near theſe works are manifeſtly remains of the Druid times; urns,
bones, ornaments of amber, glaſs beads, fnake-ſtones, amulets, celts, flint
hatchets, arrow-heads, and ſuch things as beſpeak the rudeſt ages, the utmoſt
antiquity, moſt early plantations of people that came into our ifland, foon af
ter Noah's flood. I have all the reaſon in the world to believe them an orien
tal colony of Phænicians; at leaft that ſuch a one came upon the firſt Celtic
plantation of people here: which reaſons will appear in the progreſs of this
diſcourſe. I ſuppoſe in matters of ſuch extraordinary antiquity, it would be
abſurd to fet about a formal demonſtration; and thoſe readers would be alto
gether unreaſonable, that expećt we prove every faét here, as they would do
by living witneſſes, before a court ofjudicature. When all is confider'd, that
I have put together on this affair, a judicious perfon, I preſume, will agree, I
have made the matter ſufficiently evident, and as much as the nature of things
requires.
In the times juſt preceding the coming of the Romans into Britain, the Bel
gae, a moſt powerful colony from the Gallic continent, had firmly feated
themſelves all over the country, where Stonehenge is fituate, quite to the fou
thern fea; taking in the ſouth part of Wiltſhire, and all Dorfèt/hire. Wilt
fhire has its name from the river Willy, which in Welſh is wyli, in Latin, va
gire, from its noiſe. A river of like name in Northampton/hire. Upon the
former river at Wilton, probably liv'd the Carvilius, one of the four kings
that fought fulius Cæſar, the pićture of whoſe tumulus we have given towards
the end. The Belgae carne into Britain upon the ſouth, as other Celtic nations
before had fix'd themſelves from the eaſt, Kent, the Thames, &c. fuch as the
Cantii, Segontiaci, Atrebates, &c. ſo that in Caeſar's time, all the ſouth and
eaſt parts of Britain were difpoffeſs'd of their original inhabitants, and peopled
from the continent : and this very work of Stonehenge was in the hands of the
Belgæ, who built it not. In my itinerarium curiofilm, p. 181. I obſerv'd no
leſs than four ſucceſſive boundary ditches here, from the fouthern fhore; which
with good reaſon, I ſuppos'd, were made by the Belgæ, as they conquer'd the
country by degrees, from the aboriginal inhabitants. This fhews, they muſt
have been a long while about it, that the Britons diſputed every inch of ground
with them, and that for two reaſons; as well becauſe of the extraordinary
beauty and goodneſs of the country, as fighting pro aris & focis for their great
temple of Stonehenge: not to ſpeak of that other greater temple, a little more
northward, at Abury. The Segontiaci had got Hampſhire, to the eaſt of
them, before, as far as the Colinburn river, and the Atrebates, Berkſhire. The
firſt ditch runs between the river of Blandford, formerly Alauna, and the ri
ver of Bere, the piddle in Dorfêt/hire, two or three miles fouth of it.
The fecond runs to the north of Cranborn chaſe, upon the edge of Wiltſhire,
by Pentridg: it divides the counties of Dorſet and Wilts. The third is conſpi
cuous upon Saliſbury plain, as we paſs from Wilton to Stonehenge, about the
two-mile ftone, north of Wilton: it is drawn between the river Avon and the
Willy, from Dornförd to Newton. The fourth is the more famous Wanſdike,
of great extent. Gwahan in old Britiſh fignifies / paratio, distinéfio guahann
feperare, and that undoubtedly gave name to the ditch. The method of all
theſe ditches, is, to take the northern edge of a ridge of hills, which is al
ways ſteep; the bank is on the ſouth fide. And in my itinerary, p. 134. I
fhow'd a moſt evident demonſtration, that it was made before the time of the
Romans, in the paſſage of the Roman road down Runway hill. TAB. II.
Wan/dike is the laſt advanc'd poſt of the Belgæ northwards, and that it was
made
-
-
-
*
-ls||
-
|
--
|--
-|
|-|
--
--
--
-
---
-
-
-
-
--
-
-\
|
---
-
-
..
.
#
|
-
|--|>|
#
|
|
|
|
.
s
;
-*|
-
..\|..%
S|.#|
&|*
-|
-|\\
--
.
~-%wo--*|
|
|
N
.
'
S
.
#
|
|
.
|
s
§
s
|
§
|
-
-tūNà|
-||*.|'|s-§-&s&--s-||m
-||-|*|§-|
#
.
|
|
i
-
-
\
.
-
s-
-'--#os|--|%%
--V-|-
-§§N£\%|.N
.:---|#-#|#%
.\-.:
.|\
-oW•
s----#.
--
-
|
-
--
.
|s
|
-*
|
.
-
-|N|
#|
|
s
-
-
>
.
.|
§
|"
.
-|
%||"..
s
-
-
-
…
--W.
---%
*
-
..-Z
O|
%--
.s:
#t
-#*s-|W
s
-
-
*
\
--|
-*|l
-||
-|
.
|
|
:-|
|-|
|l|-||
-#|
||
--
--\Z.
\
-
-
-
--
-
-
,
-
-
-
-
|
-
-
--
--
--
-
----
---- ----
|
=
----
----
:
|
|
D E s c R I B E D. 5
made after Stonehenge was built, is plain, becauſe the ſtones that compoſe the
work, were brought from Marlborough downs in north Wiltſhire, beyond the
dike; and as then in an enemy's country. And moſt probably it was built be
fore the Belgae fet footing in Britain, becauſe of the great number of bạrrows
or ſepulchral tumuli about it, which, no doubt, were made for the burial of
kings and great men.
The ftones of which Stonehenge is compos'd, beyond any controverſy, came
from thoſe called the gray weathers, upon Marlborough downs near Abury;
where is that other moſt wonderful work of this fort, which I ſhầll deſcribe
in my next volume. This is 15 or 16 miles off. All the greater ſtones are of
that fort, except the altar, which is of a ſtill harder, as deſign'd to refiſt fire.
The pyramidals likewife are of a different fort, and much harder than the reſt,
like thoſe of that other Druid temple call'd the Weddings, at Stanton-drew in
Somerſetſhire. Dr. Halley was at Stonehenge in the year 172o, and brought a
piece of it to the Royal Society. I examin'd it with a microſcope. ’Tis a
compoſition of cryſtals of red, green and white colours, cemented together by
nature's art, with opake granules of flinty or ftony matter. The Doćtor ob
ferv'd from the general wear of the weather upon the ftones, that the work muſt
be of an extraordinary antiquity, and for ought he knew, 2 or 3ooo years old.
But had the Doctor been at Abury, which is made ofthe fame ftones, he might
well from the like argumentation conclude, that work as old again as Stonelenge,
at leaſt much older, and I verily believe it. Nevertheleſs the current of ſo ma
ny ages has been more merciful to Stonehenge, than the infolence of rapacious
hands, (befides the general ſaccage brought upon the work of old) by the un
accountable folly of mankind, in breaking pieces off with great ħammers.
This deteſtable praćtice aroſe from the filly notion ofthe ftones being faćtitious.
But, alas! it would be a greater wonder to make them by art, than to carry
them 16 miles by art and ſtrength ; and thoſe people muſt be inexcuſable,
that deface the monument for fo trifling a fancy, Another argument of vulgar
incogitancy, is, that all the wonder of the work confiſts, in the difficulty of
counting the ſtones ; and with that, the infinite numbers of daily viſitants
buſy themſelves. This ſeems to be the remains of ſuperſtition, and the notion
of magic, not yet got out of peoples heads, fince Druid-times. But indeed a
ferious view of this magnificent wonder, is apt to put a thinking and judicious
perſon into a kind of ecstacy, when he views the ſtruggle between art and na
ture, the grandeur of that art that hides itſelf, and ſeems unartful. For tho'
the contrivance that put this maffy frame together, muſt have been exquifite,
yet the founders endeavour'd to hide it, by the ſeeming rudeneſs of the work.
The bulk of the conſtituent parts is fo very great, that the mortaiſes and tenons
muſt have been prepar'd to an extreme nicety, and, like the fabric of Solo
mon's temple, every ſtone tally'd ; and neither axes nor hammers were heard
upon the whole ſtructure. Nevertheleſs there is not a ſtone at Stonehenge, that
felt not, more or leſs, both ax and hammer of the founders. Yet 'tis highly
entertaining to confider the judicious careleſneſs therein, really the grand
guſto, like a great maſter in drawing, ſecure of the effećt: a true maſter-piece.
Every thing proper, bold, aftoniſhing, The lights and ſhades adapted with
inconceivable juſtneſs. Notwithſtanding the monftrous fize of the work, and
every part of it; 'tis far from appearing heavy : 'tis compos'd of ſeveral ſpecies
of work, and the proportions of the diffimilar parts recommend the whole, and
it pleaſes like a magical ſpell. No one thinks any part of it too great or too
little, too high or too low. And we that can only view it in its ruins, the leſs
regret thoſe ruins, that, if poſſible, add to its folemn majeſty.. . -
The stones of the gray weathers are of a baſtard fort of white marble, and
lie upon the ſurface of the ground, in infinite numbers, and ofall dimenſions.
They are loofe, detach'd from any rock, and doubtleſs lay there ever fince the
creation. Being ſolid parts thrown out to the ſurface of the fluid globe, when
C its
J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
its rotation was firſt impreſs'd. All our Druid temples are built, where theſe
fort of ſtones from the ſurface can be had at reaſonable diſtances; for they are
never taken from quarries. Here is a very good quarry at Chilmark in this
country. Saliſbury cathedral, and all the great buildings are thence; but 'tis
a ftone quite different to our work. It was a matter of much labour to draw
them hither, 16 miles. My friend the reverend Dr. Stephen Hales, the excel
lent author of vegetable ſtatics, and other works, computed them as follows.
The ſtone at the upper end of the cell, which is fallen down and broke in half,
is in length (fays he) 25 feet, in breadth 7 feet, and in thickneſs at a medium
3 ;, amounts to 6 12 cubic feet. Now a cubic foot of Hedington ftone weighs
near 154# pounds troy. If Stonehenge stone be of the fame ſpecific gravity, it
will amount to 94,348 pounds, which is 3 1 ; tuns. But if this be of the fame
fpecific gravity as Burford stone, which weighs to 155 : the cubic foot, then it
will weigh 953 19 pounds troy, or 32 tuns, If lt be equal to Blaidon stone,
which is 187 pounds troy per cubic foot, then it weighs I 14444 pounds troy,
or 38 tuns. But I am fure that the ftone is of conſiderably larger dimenſions,
than what Dr. Hales has ſtated it at, and that the fort of ſtone is much heavier
than that of the largeſt ſpecific gravity he ſpeaks of and that it amounts to
more than 4o tuns, and requires more than 14o oxen to draw it; yet this is
not the heavieſt ftone at the place.
The notion we ought to entertain of Stonehenge is not a little enhanc'd, by
the diſcovery I made from frequent menſurations there. It gave me the op
portunity of finding out the standard and original meaſure, which the people
us'd, who made this and all other works of this kind. And this precludes
any tedious diſputation againſt the opinion of authors; for whoever makes any
eminent building, moſt certainly forms it upon the common meaſure in uſe,
among the people of that place. Therefore if the proportions of Stonehenge
fall into fractions and uncouth numbers, when meaſur’d by the Engli}},
French, Roman, or Grecian foot, we may affuredly conclude, the architećts
were neither Engliſh, French, Roman or Greeks. Thus, for instance, when
the accurate Greaves tells us, the door of the Pantheon (which is of one stone)
is of Engliſh foot-meaſure 19 foot within : ſhould we not be apt to affert
at firſt fight, that the architećt in fo coſtly a work, did not chuſe his meaſures
at random, but intended that this dimenſion fhould be 2o feet? When we
confider this building is at Rome, and that it amounts to 2o Roman feet, muſt
we not conclude, it was erećted by the Roman ſtandard? adding too, that all
the reſt of the dimenſions of this stately strućture fall aptly and judiciouſly into
the fame fcale. So as long as any vestigia of St. Paul's cathedral remain, the
Engliſh foot, by which it was built, will eaſily be known. I must prepare the
reader for a right underſtanding of our Druid edifices, by informing him, that
Stonehenge, and all other works of this nature in our iſland, are erected by that
moſt ancient meaſure call'd a cubit, which we read of in the holy ſcriptures,
and in ancient profane authors. I mean the fame individual meaſure, call'd the
Hebrew, Egyptian, Phænician cubit; moſt probably deriv'd from Noah and
Adam. ’Tis the fame that the pyramids of Egypt and other their works are
projećted upon; the ſame as that of Moſes's tabernacle, Solomon's temple, Gc.
and we may reaſonably pride ourſelves in poffesting theſe viſible monuments of
the old meaſure of the world. My predeceſſor Biſhop Cumberland ſhows, enough
to fatisfy us, that the Egyptian and Hebrew meaſure was the fame, tho’ he has
not hit upon that meaſure, to a nicety. My friend and collegue Dr. Arbuth
not has been more ſucceſsful, in applying it to ſuch parts of the greater pyra
mid, as evidently eſtabliſh its proportion, to our Engliſh foot, from the mea
fures Greaves has left us: and ſhows it to be 2o inches and # of Engliſh meaſure.
Thusthe Doćtor obſerves the fide of the greater pyramid at baſe, is 693 Engli/5
feet; which amounts exaćtly to 4oo Egyptian cubits, a full and fuitable num
ber for fuch a ſquare work, and without queſtion the originally defign'd mea
fure,
•
R
S
|}|i|
|
|
S
§
|ŠįŠN-NN
|S
§NN§
|Y
R
N
Ñ
Ñ
\NNS? /
| §
N Ñ -
UA §N / /
|
|
|
|
|
|
|| ||
|
|| ||||||
|||||||
|
||||||||||||
||
re tam
|
|
-- ·
|
|
|.| | | | | | | | | , '
||| ||
| ' ||
|
| | " |
-
| | | || ||
t* | | || | | - |- | || || ||
' , ||||||||||||||||||
|
| | | |
D E s c R I B E D.
fure, the stadium of old. I have taken notice that Inigo fones obſerv'd the like
dimenſions, in laying out the plot of Lincoln's-Inn-fields. The Doćtor adds
many more inſtances, deduc'd in the fame way, to confirm it. I add, that
Greaves fays, the lowermoſt ſteps of the pyramid are near 4 feet in height,
which amounts to 2 cubits and 2 palms. They are 3 foot in breadth, i. e.
1 cubit 4 palms. The length of the declining firſt entrance is 92 feet and an
half, i. e. 55 cubits. The length of the next gallery is 1 Io feet, which a
mounts to 6o cubits. There is another gallery in the pyramid, of the fame
length. Mr. Webb fays the diameter of Stonehenge is 1 Io feet. This would
tempt one to ſuſpećt the fame meaſure us'd in both. Thus the diameter of the
like work at Rowldrich in Oxfordſhire, deſcrib’d by Dr. Plot, is 35 yards, i. e.
1 Io feet, groſsly meaſur'd. Father Brothais in his obſervations on upper E
gypt, in our Phil. Tranſ found a door-cafe made of one ftone, in a magnificent
building, it was 26 ; feet in height, this is 15 cubits. Dr. Huntington, in the
fame Tran/ fays, he found the ſphynx ſtanding by the northern pyramids to be
1 Io feet in circuit, i. e. 6o cubits. , Ptolony in his IVth book, and Pliny
XXXVI. fpeak of the obeliſk rais'd by king Ramests at Heliopolis, which
Mr. Webb, p. 34. gives the length of in Engliſh feet, 136. This is 8o cu
bits. That which Augustus fet up in the circus maximus at Rome upon re
dućtion of Egypt, Webb fays, is 12o feet 9 inches, which amounts to 7o cubits.
Another, Augustus fet up in the campus martius, which he fays is 9 foot higher,
i. e. 5 cubits. He ſpeaks again of that erećted by Fontana before St. Peter's,
8 1 feet, which was 5o cubits. I ſuppoſe the bafe being injur'd, it was cut a
little ſhorter. This at the baſe, he fays, is 9 foot fquare, i. e. 5 cubits. The
Vatican obeliſk is 17o foot high, which is ioo cubits. 12 foot broad at bot
tom, which is 7 cubits; at top a third part leſs.
Hence we gather, the meaſure of the ſhew-bread table of the Yews, a cubit
and half in height, Exod. xxv. 23. It had a golden crown about it, meaning
a moulding, or verge or corniſh, as upon our tea-tables. ni peripheria, coro
na, becauſe 12 loaves were to be pil'd upon it. It was 3 1 inches in height,
that of our ordinary eating-tables. And we ſhall find by this fame cubit divi
ded into its 6 tophach's or palms, all our Druid works are perform'd, "Tis not
to be wonder’d at, that it ſhould come into Britain, with an eastern colony
under the condućt of the Egyptian, Tyrian, Phænician Hercules, (who was the
fame perfon) about Abraham's time, or foon after, as I have good reaſons to
believe, which will be ſhown in its proper place.
C H A P. II.
Of the nameofStonehenge. Theſe works prior to the Roman times.
Izho were the builders? Of the general fituation of it, again.
Of the beauty of its general proportion. Apeep into it. A walk
round the area. Remarks on two stones standing on the vallum,
and two correſponding cavities for water vafes: explained from
ancient coins. That the Welſh are the remains of the Belgæ
from the continent, who lived here at the Roman invaſion, and
hy whoſe reports, Stonehenge was built by the most ancient orien
tal colony, that brought the Druids bither.
O M E we to the name of Stonehenge, fo call'd by our Saxon anceſtors;
an argument fufficient, they were not the builders of it; they would
have called it by a more honourable name. Rode hengenne is in Saxon a hang
ing
8 S 7 0 N E H E N G E
ing-rod or pole, i. e. a gallows; and Stonehengeisa ſtonegallows, called fo from
the hanging parts, architraves, or rather impoſts, the more remarkable part;
and which only can perſuade people from thinking, the ſtones grew in the very
place, (as they expreſs it.) And fo Mr. Camden, Dr. Holland, Mr. Webb and
others think, of the wonderful work at Abury; becauſe there are none of
theſe overthwart ftones, as here. Many are fo aftoniſhed at the bulk of theſe
ftones, that meaſuring all art and power by their own, they had rather think,
they ſprouted up in their places, like muſhrooms, at regular diſtances, in ma
thematical circles; than that they were plac'd there by human induſtry, for ex
cellent purpoſe. But pendulous rocks are now called henges in Yorkſhire, and
I have been informed of another place there called Stonehenge, being natural
rocks. So that I doubt not, Stonehenge in Saxon fignifies the hanging ftones.
In Cornwallis a Heath call'd now Hengston down, probably from fuch a work as
ours, now demoliſhed. It is in the hundred of Easte. And near it, is that
other memorable Antiquity, compoſed of many upright ftones, call'd the Hur
lers, a Druid temple. The old Britons or Welſh call Stonehenge choir gaur,
which fome interpret chorea gigantum, the giants dance: Ijudge, more rightly
chorus magnus, the great choir, round church, or temple. As Banchor (where
probably was of old, another Druid temple) means the high temple. But they
miſtake it for chorea, chwarae xuare, a ball, dance; as Necham fings;
Nobilis est lapidum stručiura, chorea gigantum :
Ars experta fuum paffè, peregit opus.
Mr. Camden defines the work coronæ in modum. The Latin corona a crown,
corolla a ghirland, and the Britiſh crown comes from its circular form, as cór
chorus. The armoric Britons call cryn rotundus, kruin the Iriſh. Coryn is
the round tip of any thing, many fuch like words in all the Celtic dialećts.
The chorus of a building among Roman chriſtians, became appropriate to the
more ſacred part, or eaſt end of churches, always turn'd of a circular form ;
from the time of Constantine the Great. Thus all the churches in the holy
land, thus the chapel in Colchester caſtle, and in the Tower of London, (both, .
in my opinion, built about his time) are round at the eaſt end. The old Bri
tons or Welſh, we find, hada notion of its being a ſacred place, tho' they were
not the builders of it; for I take them to be the remains of the Celtic people
that came from the continent, who chiefly inhabited England, at leaft the
fouth part, when the Romans invaded the iſland, they are more particularly
theremains of the Belgae. I ſuppoſe theirname Welſh, a corruption of Belgæ,
'Ové?)zi in greek, Belgífchen and Belfchen in german. Strabo IV. ſpeaks
of their way of making flannel, called Aaway, for which our Welſh are fo fa
mous. Strabo gives the celtic word without the guttural aſpirate, chlena in la
tin. The moſt ancient inhabitants, the remains of the old Phaenician colon
and primitive Celts who built Stonehenge, were the Pičis, Scots, Highland and
Iriſh, all the ſame people, tho' perhaps differing ſomewhat in dialećt, as in fi
tuation: no otherwiſe than a Cumberland-man and one of Somer/et/ire now.
The Corniſh, I ſuppoſe, ſome remains too, of the old oriental race. But at
this very day in Wales, they callevery antiquated appearance beyond memory,
Iriſh. Upon view of land, that from before any ones remembrance appears
to have been plow'd, or very ancient ruins of buildings, and the like, the
immediately pronounce, That it was in the times of the Iriſh. The very fame
is obſervable in the north, of the Piĉis or Pights, as they pronounce it, guttu
rally, in the oriental faſhion, which we cannot imitate. They call old foun
dations, Pights houſes, &c. Every thing is Pičti/h, whoſe origin they do not
know. Theſe people are conſcious, that they are not the Aborigines, who by
time and ſucceſſive inundations, were forc'd northward and weſtward, into
Scotland and Ireland. And alſo in the days ofthe Romans, ſuch ofthe then in
*- habitants,
|
-
1111.
|
|
\
.
\\
|
'.
". a
|
|
8 . --
S 7' 0 N E H E N G E
*------- * --- - - - - -*--* * * * * * * *
D E S C R I B E D. 9
habitants as would not ſubmit to their gentile yoke, took the fameroad. The
Iriſh therefore, or ancient Scottiſh, is the remnant of the Phænician language,
mixt with old Bi/ċayan and Gallic, dialećts of Celts ; and fome oriental, Arabic
in particular: as Mr. Toland obſerves. And they are the deſcendantsof thepeople
who built Stonehenge, and the like Works. Whence ſpring the ſtrange reports
of theſe ftones, coming from Egypt, from Africa, from Spain, from Ireland.
As retaining ſome memory of the ſteps, by which the people who preceded
their anceſtors, travelled; nor they themſelves, nor even the Belgæ pretending to
be the builders of this wonderful work. For the Belgae could not be ignorant
of their own coming from the Gallic continent. -
I have taken notice of another remarkable particular, as to the name of
Stonehenge; which I apprehend to be of higheſt antiquity: that it was call
ed the Ambres, or Ambroſë, as the famous main Ambre by Pen/äns in Corn
wall, another work of the Druids akin to this. And from hence the adjacent
town of Ambre/bury had its name. But of this matter, I muſt beg the readers
patience, till I come to the laſt chapter, and diſcourſe of the antiquity of theſe
works in general. - -
So much at preſentas to the name of our fabrick; it is time to draw toward
the ſacred pile, and fancy ourſelves walking upon this delightful plain:
juvat arva videre -
Non rastris hominum, non ulli obnoxia curae. Virg.
nought can be ſweeter than the air that moves o’re this hard and dry, chalky
foil. Every ſtep you take upon the ſmooth carpet, (literally) your nofe is fa
luted with the moſt fragrant ſmell of /ểrpillum, and apium, which with the
fhort grafs continually cropt by the flocks of ſheep, compoſes the fofteſt and
moſt verdant turf, extremely eaſy to walk on, and which riſes as with a ſpring,
under ones feet. The following drawing TAB. III. is a proſpećt taken from TA B. III.
the king's barrow, weſt from We/pastan's camp, in the way from Ambre/bury to
Stonehenge, by the Bristol road. Tho' the graver has not done it juſtice: yet it
will give one a general notion of the fituation of the place. It is admirably
chofen, being in the midſt of thoſe wide downs, eall'd Saliſbury plain; between
the river Avon to the eaſt, and a brook that runs into the Willy, on the weſt.
Theſe two ſtreams half round encompaſs it, at 2 miles diſtance, forming as it
were a circular area, of 4 or 5 miles diameter, compos'd of gentle acclivities
and declivities, open and airy. Yet agreeably diverſify'd with the appearance of
barrows, every where upon the edges of the higheſt grounds. Which very bar
rows are curious and entertaining, when view'd at hand, as well for the nicety
and handſome turn of theirforms, as for their great variety, and all within fight of
the temple. Theſe downsfeed many flocks ofſheep, and no doubt furniſh'd the
idea of Theffalian and Arcadian plains, to the noble Sydney refidingat the neigh
bouring Wilton. The rivers are planted very thick with towns. Six miles fouth
of Stonehenge is Saliſbury, a mile nearer is Sorbiodunum, or old Sarum, by the
fide of which paffes the Roman road via Iceniana reaching from Norfolk, into
Dorfêtſhire. As this road goes ſouthward, a mile beyond Woodyates, where it
enters Dorſetſhire and Cranburn chaſe, it paſies over a heath where are many
old barrows, like theſe on Saliſbury plain. It happens there, to infringe upon
one of the barrows, which luckily affords us a demonſtration, of the road be
ing made fince thoſebarrows; of which I took notice in my itinerarium p. 18o.
and further to gratify the curious have here inferted a print of it TA B. IV. TA B. IV.
and may take the opportunity once for all to advertize them, of the diſadvan
tage under which all drawings from theſe plains muſt appear. They are made
for ufe and inſtrućtion, like mathematical figures, and cannotbe expećted much
to pleaſe the eye; being form’d chiefly from bare lines, admitting no pićture
like decoration.
D I have
I O J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
TA B. IV.
I have obſerv'd another fimilar proof of theſe works being older than the
Roman times here, in that Roman road that goes from Marlborough to Bath.
It is near Abury, and I have a print of it engrav'd, which will be exhibited,
when I next publiſh an account of that great work. But in the former plate
IV. I call thoſe Druid barrows, which are often found on theſe plains: a cir
cular trench, fometime of 1oo foot diameter, with only a ſmall tump of earth
in the middle, under which there is commonly an urn. Sometime two or
three of theſe little tumps or diminutive tumuli within one circle, which it is
natural to ſuppoſe, were friends or relations. Theſe circles are always excel
lently well mark'd out. -
The particular ſpot of ground where Stonehenge stands, is in the lordſhip of
weſt or little Ambre/bury: the poffestion of the reverend Mr. Hayward, who
at preſent may be call'd the Archdruid of the iſland. "Tis a delicate part of
this large plain, with a gentle declivity from the ſouth-weſt to the ſouth and
north-eaſt. So that the foil, which is chalk, is perfećtly dry and hard. Hence
the infinite numbers of coaches and horſes, that thro’ fo many centuries have
been vifiting the place every day, have not obliterated the track of the banks
and ditches. The water cannot poſſibly reſt any where hereabouts. The
founders conſulted well for the ſtability of their work, and falubrity of the
place. Ceſar informs us in his commentaries, B. G. vI. 13. that among the
Druids, “one has the ſupreme authority. When he is dead, whoever excels
“ in dignity ſucceeds. But if there be more candidates, the Archdruid is choſe
“ by the votes of the Druids: and ſometimes they fight for it. At a certain
“ fix’d time of the year the Gauliſh Druids meet, in the territories of the Car
“ nutes, which country is in the middle of Gaul, in a conſécratedplace. Hi
“ ther all perſons from all quarters come, who have any controverfy, and stand
“ to their determination. The diſcipline of the Druids aroſe in Britain, and
“ is ſaid from thence to have been brought into Gaul. And now, they who
“ defign to be more throughly initiated therein, go over to learn.” Here in
few lines the great author acquaints us with a vaſt fund of ancient hiſtory, and
upon which whole volumes have been wrote. I obſerve no more from it at
reſent, than that we may very reaſonably conclude, the elegant and the mag
nificent ſtrućture of Stonehenge was as the metropolitical church of the chief
Druid of Britain. This was the locus conſécratus where they met at fome great
feſtivals in the year, as well to perform the extraordinary ſacrifices and religi
ous rites, as to determine cauſes and civil matters. Ceſar calls theſe appoint
ments of the Druids in Gaul conſecrated places, where probably was nothing
but a circle of rude ſtones. Had he feen thoſe of our iſland, an Abury or even
a Stonehenge, he would ſcarce have given them the title of temples: he was not
uſed to the old patriarchal way. But I reckon the true reading in that paſſage
quoted from him, to be loco conſécrato, not luco, which was put in by fome
bold tranſcriber, who had heard of the fondneſs of the Druids for groves. But
how unfit is a grove for a great and public meeting upon civil affairs? And this
for the excellency of its fituation upon a vaſt plain, was well calculated for a
publick meeting of thoſe of the order, at an elećtion of a new Archdruid. As
Ceſar's words give light to the work before us, ſo it confirms what the warlike
author ſays, of the diſcipline being originally in Britain; which the critics up
on the continent cannot bear, and vainly endeavour to ſpirit away Ceſar's
meaning. The very building of Stonehenge, to ſay nothing of other like works
here, ſhows it was not in vain, that the youth of Gaul came to learn of men,
who could contrive and execute fo mighty a work.
Stonehenge ſtands not upon the very ſummit of a hill, but pretty near it, and
for more than three quarters of the circuit you aſcend to it very gently from
lower ground. At halfa mile diſtance, the appearance of it is ſtately and aw
ful, really auguſt. As you advance nearer, eſpecially up the avenue, which is
to the north-eaſt of it, (which fide is now moſt perfećt) the greatneſs of its con
tOllr
P/a.
Engliſh . |Engliſh . |Engliſh . |Engliſh |
Feet Cnbits Feet Cnbits Feet Cnbits Feet Cnbits | TAB.VI.
I H / | |
|
|
H |- |2 H / | H /00
|+ / | 3 | /o
H 2 H /(70
H 4 | | 2oo
/
|-
H /0
H 2 5 H 3 |- O
| | 6 | 2 H 300 |
| 7 H 4 H 200
H 3 H 8 |3o H 400
H.5
H 2 |- 42
H /O H Ó | 2o H.500
H 4 | H 300
462
| | | 7 | 6oo
| 5
H 3 H 8 | 50 | 700 H 400
H /5 H 2 H30
H 6’ -
| 800
|- H Ó 0 1
| H /O | |500
| | | 900
L 4 |
? | //
-
| H 462 |
| H2O | 7o H /O00 ||
8 H / 2 H 6oo
| | //00
H 5 | 80 |
|- H /200
92 |- H.50 | 7oo
H 25- H (762
H / 5 32 H /300
H /O
| 6’ H
H /00 H/zoo || 800
H // H H6O
H30 H / 500
H //o | 900
H /2 | 7 H H/600
H |
/262 || | 700
|- 7o
D E s c R I B E D. 1 IV
tour fills the eye in an aſtoniſhing manner. TAB. V. is the front proſpećt from TA B. v.
the entrance of the avenue. The ftone that leans o'er the high altar appears
thro' the grand or principal entrance: becauſe we ſtand upon lower ground. If
the reader pleaſes to caſt his eye upon Plate XII. there 'tis repreſented in ortho- TA B. XII.
graphy, (to ſpeak technically) as here in proſpećt. Hence by this method of
comparing the deſigns together, we may, without confufion, gather a true no
tion of the work. Stonehenge is a good deal more in diameter, than the out
fide of St. Paul's cupola. And from a compariſon of theſe two buildings, I was
able to judge of the vanity of the architećt of St. Peter's at Rome, who in or
der to degrade the Pantheon, (whilſt he was imitating it) boaſted, he would
fet the Pantheon 2oo foot high in the air, meaning the cupola there. But the
architećt of the Pantheon, Valerius Ostienſis (had he been alive) would have told
him, that the vaftneſs of the diameter in theſe cupola's is loft by the very height.
Whatever we would have admired, ought to be preſerved as the largeſt dimen
fion. Therefore Valerius, with admirable judgment, has made the outward
breadth of the Pantheon one fifth part compleatly longer than its height, taken
in front; but if we meaſure it fidewife, taking in the portico, the breadth to
the height, is more than 6 to 4. By this means the wonder of the Panthecn, .
the curve or arch 15o Roman feet in diameter, remains. So the curve of Stone
henge, which is above 1oo Engliſh feet, appears extraordinary large and well
proportion'd, upon a height of 18 foot, which reaches to the top of the outer
corniſh; that of the inner corniſhes is but 24 foot high, at a medium. For
the corniſhes of the inner part of Stonehenge, or that which Webb calls the cell,
are not all of equal height, of which in proper place. Thus both parts of the
wonder is preſerv'd, the greatneſs of the circuit of the whole work, the great
neſs and height of the parts that compoſe it; the height being one fourth of the
diameter. The greatneſs too of the lights and ſhades in Stonehenge, as well as
their variety arifing from a circular form, gives it all poſſible advantage, and
makes it deſerve the appellation of,
Deorum glorioſa domus,
as Theocritus and Herodotus generally call temples. And its fituation is corre
fpondent to the antient notion. . Pauſànias praiſes the Tanagrei in Beotia, for
having their temples in clean and diſtinét area's, diſtant from profane buildings
and traffic.
Stonehenge is incloſed within a circular ditch. After one has paſs'd this ditch,
fays the right reverend annotator to Camden, he aſcends 35 yards before he
comes at the work itſelf. This meaſure is the fame, as that which Webb calls
I 1o foot, the diameter of the work. For the area inclos'd by a ditch, wherein
Stonehenge is fituate, is in diameter three times the diameter of Stonehenge.
See the Plate of the area. XXIII. Therefore the distance between the verge Tan.
of the ditch within fide, quite round, to the work of the Temple, is equal to XXIII.
the diameter of the Temple. . The reader remembers what I promis'd, about
the ſcale or meaſure whereby this work and all others of the Druids, is form’d;
that 'tis the old Hebrew, Phænician or Egyptian Cubit, which compar'd with
the Engliſh foot, amounts to 2o inches and #. Therefore I have drawn the
enſuing comparifon and proportion, between our Engliſh and Hebrew Scale ;
which is to accompany us in the future deſcription. TAB. VI. the ſcale of TA B. VI.
cubits and feet compar'd. That I might not be fufpećted to favour an hypo
theſis, I produce other peoples meaſures, where I can find them in print, pro
vided they be done with tolerable judgment and accuracy; for both are neceſ
fary in our cafe, with proper allowance. ”Tis not to be ſuppos'd, that in this
work, the minuteneſs and extreme curiofity of Deĝodetz, with which he mea
fur'd the remains of old Rome, is expećted, or even postible. For tho' the
ftones are not chizel'd and ſquar’d, to fuch precifeneſs, as Roman works are;
yet they are chizel'd, and are far from rude. Nevertheleſs every body h :
ill,
I 2. S 7 0- N E H E N G E
TA B. VI.
fkill, properly to meaſure them. . For they are much impair'd by weather: ·
much is knock'd off by wretched hands. Thoſe ſtones that ſtand, are luxated
various ways, by time and their own weight; by filly people digging about
them, and by the unfortunate colony of rabbets lately tranſlated thither. So
that we may well fay with Claudian,
Seram ponderibus pronis tračiura ruinam,
Pars cadit affiduo fatu, pars imbre pereſa
Rumpitur, abripuit partem vitioſa vetustas. -
I was forc'd to make many admeaſurements and repeated, before I could ob
tain an exaćt ground-plot; and it requir'd much confideration to do it, and to
find out the true ſcale by which it was compos'd, the Druid cubit, which they
brought with them from the eaſt. Therefore by the annexed ſcales, TAB. VI.
which I have contriv'd to anſwer all lengths, the reader will moſt perfećtly un
derſtand the ſubſequent deſcription, and fee the truth of my affertion: and may
from thence be enabled to meaſure any other like works, in our iflands, which
I have not had the opportunity of viewing. It was the eaſtern way, in laying
out a building, to uſe a ſtaff of 6 cubits long. This was of a convenient, ma
nageable length; and its diviſions being half a dozen, fuited well a reckoning
by duodenaries. Thus in Ezek. xl. 3, 5. Apoc. xxi. 16. the angel that laid out
the temple of Solomon, is deſcribed, as having a reed of 6 cubits (a meaſuring
reed or cane) in his hand. This being the univerſal and firſt meaſure of an
tiquity, was in time ſpread all over the world. In particular, it became the
TA B. VII.
TA B. VIII.
TA B. IX.
TA B, X,
decempedum of the Greeks and Romans; the common meaſuring ſtandard. But
'tis remarkable, they alter'd the diviſions, thinking it more artful and conveni
ent to have them in leſs parts: and inſtead of 6 cubits, they made it confiſt of
Io feet. .. And by time and change, the whole meaſure became fomewhat al
ter'd from the primitive. For the Greek decempedum was ſwell'd fomewhat too
long, as the Romans diminiſh'd theirs a little. Ezekiel's reed is our Io foot
and 4 inches ; ; 4oo cubits is the stadium of the ancients, or furlong, 7oo feet.
When you enter the building, whether on foot or horfeback and caſt your
eyes around, upon the yawning ruins, you are ſtruck into an exſtatic reverie,
which none can deſcribe, and they only can be ſenfible of, that feel it. Other
buildings fall by piece meal, but here a fingle ftone is a ruin, and lies like the
haughty carcaſe of Goliath. Yet there is as much of it undemoliſhed, as en
ables us ſufficiently to recover its form, when it was in its moſt perfećt state.
There is enough of every part to preſerve the idea of the whole. The next
Plate, TAB. VII. the peep (as I call it) into the fančium fanếForum, is drawn,
at the very entrance, and as a view into theinfide. When we advance further,
the dark part of the ponderous imposts over our heads, the chaſm of fky
between the jambs of the cell, the odd conſtrućtion of the whole, and the
greatneſs of every part, ſurprizes. We may well cry out in the poet's words
Tantum Relligio potuit !
if you look upon the perfect part, you fancy intire quarries mounted up into
the air: if upon the rude havock below, you fee as it were the bowels of a
mountain turn'd infide outwards. It is pleaſant likewiſe to confider the ſpot
upon which 'tis fituate, and to take a circular view of the country around it.
For which purpoſe I have ſketch'd the following proſpećts, taking in the
country almoſt round the circumference of the horizon. This Ufe there
will be in them further ; if ever it happen, that this noble work ſhould be de
ftroy'd: the ſpot of it may be found, by theſe views.
TAB. VIII., north proſpećt from Stonehenge.
TA B. IX. ſouth-weſt proſpećt from Stonehenge.
TA B. X. ſouth-eaſt proſpect from Stonehenge.
The
- - -- - -
P/2. TABVİí.
-
E
|
:<\È
}H
----|
-
|i
|–~
È
ttttt#---E
<<È
É
|
----
–--
–
,
-st2~
--*E=
-
-r
~SSS
Tv-n
. . -. - a
-r*** AN* A
--~ ~~~~
» --,
*
* *
-
r
* * * * * *
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ·
s-```
---- –
~~~~,
~
V----v^v^-, *Ca– ř~ ~
v. - - »
- N ·
N-N\ -
- ,
v ~ -- ~~ -
----F –
*
-
§v:
-
F ~ ~ -v
\
-AY', \
s \\
-- E -----
A \\\
~
*
v v
Tg v
SAN
* - *
--T
y
-
* –
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *»
N -
-- ser
~
~~ * *
**
. **
~
-,
*
~~
~~
==-->
-
-,
|
J
D E S C R I B E D.
The vallum of the ditch which incloſes the area, or court, is inwards, and
makes a circular terras; walking upon which, we take the foregoing proſpećts.
The loweſt part of the area is towards the entrance. The tops of all the cir
cumjacent hills, or rather eaſy elevations, are cover'd o’re, as it were, with bar
rows, which cauſe an agreeable appearance ; adorning the bare downs with
their figures. And this ring of barrows reaches no further, than till you lote
fightof the temple, or thereabouts. Stand at the grand entrance by the ftone
that lies upon the ground, and the view of the temple preſents itſelf as in the
Vth Plate, the front proſpećt of Stonehenge. Direćtly down the avenue, Tx 2. v.
to the north-eaſt, the apex of an hill terminates the horizon, between ·
which and the bottom of a valley you fee the Curfüs, a work which has never
yet been taken notice of Being a ſpace of ground included between two long
banks going parallel eaſt and weſt, at 35o foot diſtance, the length Ioooo feet.
This was defign'd for the horfe races and games, like the Olympic, the Isthmian,
&c. of the Greeks. But we ſhall ſpeak more particularly of this afterwards.
In the valley on this fide of it, the ſtrait part of the avenue terminates in two
branches; that on the left hand, leads to the Curfits; that on the right goes di
rećtly up the hill, between two famous groups of barrows, each confiſting of
feven in number. The fartheft, or thoſe northward, I call the oldeſt king's
barrows; the hithermoft are vulgarly called the feven king's graves.
If we walk a little to the left hand, TAB. VIII. is preſented. See the TA P. VIII.
northern long barrow : on this fide of which, the eye takes in the whole
length of the Curſus. Many barrows at the end and on both fides of it. That
mark'd P. was open'd by my Lord Pembroke, thoſe mark'd S. were open'd by
myſelf. What was diſcover'd therein will be treated of hereafter. Further to
the weſt, the higheſt ground of that ſpot whereon Stonehenge ſtands, eclipſes
a diſtant view, and there are the neareſt barrows planted with rabbets, which
do much damage too at Stonehenge, and threaten no leſs than the ruin of the
whole. Upon the vallum of Stonehenge is one of the ftones there, which
feems to be a ſmall altar, for fome kind of libations, and at the letter A. the
mark of a cavity; of which more particularly, in the next page. The next
or ſouth-weſt proſpećt,_TAB. IX. from Stonehenge, takes in the country from Ta B. IX.
Berwickbarn, and my Lord Pembroke's wood of Groveley, to Saliſbury ſteeple:
a chain of barrows reaching a 6th part of the whole horizon. Many from
the great quantity of theſe ſepulchral tumuli here, injudiciouſly conclude,
that there have been great battels upon the plain, and that the flain were
bury'd there. But they are really no other than family burying-places, fet
near this temple, for the fame reaſon as we bury in church-yards and confecra
ted ground. Saliſbury ſteeple feen from hence, brings to my forrowful re
membrance, the great Thomas Earl of Pembroke, whoſe nobie afhes are there
depofited. He was patron of my ſtudies, particularly thoſe relating to Stone
Henge. Virtue, piety, magnanimity, learning, generofity, all ſublime qualities
recommended and added to his illuſtrious deſcent. Glorious it will be for me,
if theſe pages live to teſtify to another age, the intimacy he was pleaſed to
honour me with.
quis talia fando
/
Temperet a lachrymis
In this Plate, the reader may remark another of the cavities within the vallum,
to which that correſponds on the oppofite diameter before hinted at.
The ſouth-eaſt proſpect finiſhes the circle, TAB. X. looking towards the TA B, X,
valley ſouthward, where the rain-water pafes, from the whole work of Stone
bengé, the whole tract of the Curſus and the country beyond it, as far as north
long barrow; and fo is convey'd into the river Avon at Lake. That road be- |
tween king barrow and the ſeven burg is the way to Veſpastan's camp and ſo \
tO
J' 7' 0 N E H E NV G E
I 4.
TA B.
XXIII.
TA B.
XXIII.
to Ambrostury. The barrow under thoſe ſeven kings of later form, is that
neareft to Stonehenge.
Doubtleſs in the ſacrifices and ceremonies which were here praćtis'd, water
was usd, and I obſerve moſt of our Druid temples are fet near rivers. The rea
fon why Stonehenge was not fet near a river, has hitherto effectually preſerv'd it,
this part being uninhabitable upon that account, and rather too far off a town
for tillage. But when I curiouſly contemplated the beauty and convenience of
this court, I obſerv'd two remarkable places, which plainly have a conformity
with the two ſtones fet upon the vallum ; which ſtones puzzle all enquirers.
Theſe particulars ſeem to explain one another, and more eſpecially by the help
of a coin in Vaillant, tom. II. p. 24.o. for which reaſon I caus'd it to be engra
ven on that plate, TAB. XXIII. the area of Stonehenge. ’Tis a coin of Philip
the Roman emperor, ftruck by the city of Heliopolis in Cæle/yria under mount
Libanus, now call'd Baldec, where is an admirable ancient temple remaining,
deſcrib’d and pićtur'd in Maundrel's travels of the holy land. In the walls of
it are two or three ftones of an immenſe length, which feem to be the frag
ments of an obeliſk, dedicated to the fun, whence the name of Heliopolis. The
coin preſents a temple built upon a rock: to which they aſcend by ſteps. The
temple is inclos'd in an area with a wall. On the left hand by the circuit of the
area is a ſtone altar. A little further, is a great vafe for water to be us'd in the
facrifices. The legend is colonia IvLia AvGusta FELix. HELiopolitana. Now
the two cavities in the circuit of our area, very probably were the places where
two great ſtone vafes were fet, and the two ftones were two altars for ſome par
ticular rites, which we don't take upon ourſelves to explain. See another coin
II. in Destamp's féleếfiora numifinata, p. 23. which is to the fame purpoſe.
Thoſe ſtones are fet in their proper places in my ſcheme of the area of Stone
benge: and I leave them to the better conjećtures ofthe learned in theſe matters.
Mr. Webb fancies them the jambs of two portals of two entrances, befides the
great entrance; and makes them favour his imaginary triangles, from which
he forms the work of Stonehenge, upon a Witruvian plan. And in order to
bring this about, he draws one ſtone, that toward the eaſt, or on the left hand,
from the true and only entrance, no leſs than 12o foot out of its real place.
No doubt, the reader will be ſurpriz'd at this, and the eafier credit me, when
I ſay his ground-plot in other parts, is very far from being exaćt. The reader
will obſerve from my ſcheme, that the two femicircular hollows mark'd AA,
wherein I ſuppoſe the water-vafes were fet, are plac'd alternatively, with the
two stones: I don't pretend to ſhow why the Druids did fo. But that stone
standing, together with the upper A, and the center of the grand entrance by
the ſtone that lies flat there, make an exaćt equilateral triangle; yet really have
not the leaft relation to the ſcheme of the work of Stonehenge in general, or to
the cell in particular. Nor do the ſtones, or thoſe hollows, point out any
other entrance croſs the ditch into the area. So in the tabernacle of Molês and
temple of Solomon, great vafes in braſs were fet for water, in the court before the
temple. - ,
C H A P.
|
«
|
|
S|
\
D E s c R I B E D.
C H A P. III.
The admeaſurement of the ground-plot; and outer circle of the
temple, and imposts over it. Of the principal line of the work,
running down the avenue, and ſingle entrance, into the area, or
court. The imposts are jointed exquisttely by mortaiſe and tenon.
The temple at Perſepolis a building of this fort.
ET us now fet about an examination of the meaſures of the temple itſelf.
L Take a ſtaff Io foot 4 inches and : long. Divide it into fix equal parts.
Theſe are the cubits of the ancients. Each cubit is divided into fix parts.
Theſe are palms. Thus have we the original meaſure of the founders of Stone
henge. We will take Mr. Webb's meaſures, and compare 'em herewith. TA B.
XI. the ground-plot.
Mr. Webb fays, p. 55. that the whole work of Stonehenge being of a circu
lar form, is I Io foot in diameter. But to be precife, 'tis Io8 and fomewhat
more, and his own fcale in his ground-plot ſhows the fame. This is the dia
meter from outfide to outfide, which in our ground-plot is the principal diame
ter. The thickneſs of the ftones of the outward circle, he ſays, p. 59. are 3
foot and an half. Hence the inner diameter becomes almoſt 1o2 feet Engliſh.
If the reader pleaſes to meaſure Io2 feet upon the comparative fcales, which I
gave of the Engliſh foot and Hebrew cubit, being the meaſure us'd by the Dru
ids, or in the fcales at the bottom of the ground-plot, he will find that it a
mounts exaćtly to 6o cubits. 3o cubits being the radius wherewith they struck
the circle upon the turf, which is the inner circumference of that work. That
fufficiently defin'd their ground-plot. For tho' they intended in general, that
the thickneſs of the ftones of this outer circle ſhould be 3 foot and a half; but
to ſpeak more properly, 2 cubits (which is the fame meaſure) yet they were
more careful of one fide only, of that dimenſion. And the chief bufineſs be
ing withinfide this temple, they fet the beſt face of the ftones inwards, upon
that ground-line; the other face was fuited as well as the ſcantlings they could
get, beſt anſwer'd. Webb's 3 foot and a half is preciſely 3 foot 5 inches, and
fomewhat more, making compleatly 2 Druid cubits, as you find by the ſcales.
They that carefully view Stonehenge, will eaſily fee, that the ftones of the in
fide both of the outward circle and of the cell, are the ſmootheft, beſt wrought,
and have the handfomeſt appearance. For ſo the polite architećts of the eaſtern
part of the world, beſtow'd more elegance within their temples than without,
Not as our modern London builders, who carve every moulding, and crowd eve
ry ornament, which they borrow out of books, on the outfide of our publick
ftrućtures, that they may more commodiouſly gather the duft and ſmoke.
The truth is, good fenfe and obſervation of nature, produces the fame ideas in
all ages and all nations. Our Druids obſerv'd, that God almighty in forming
the body of a man, made all the external parts great, bold, round, with orna
ment fufficient; but where the beauty chiefly confifted in the fitneſs of the pro
portions, in ſymmetry and plainneſs. In the infide, he has diſplay'd all the
zninutiae of divine ſkill. They have done the like, according to their way, in
Stonehenge. So even as to the outward appearance, I find they took care to fet
thofe ftones that had the beſt outward face, toward the front or entrance. And
to embarraſs the general ſcheme of the work, they made uſe of two centers in
ftead of one, but 2 cubits diſtance from one another; perhaps to make the thing
intricate and as magical: befides the advantage it gives to the oval form of the
TA B. XI.
included cell.
Obſerve,
TA B. VI.
I 6 S 7 0 N E H E N G E
TA B. XII.
TA B. V.
Obſerve, in laying down the ground-plot and projećting this outer circle,
we faid it was 1 Io feet, (groſs meaſure) in diameter. We remember what is
before-mention'd, that the learned Greaves meaſur’d two galleries in the great
er pyramid, in like manner, each I Io feet. So the biſhop of London fays,
from the grand entrance of Stonehenge, to the work is 35 yards: fo he fays the
diameter of the circle at Rowldrich in Oxford/hire, is 35 yards: all this while 6o
Druid or Egyptian cubits are meant. So the length of Solomon's temple was 6o
cubits, whereof the Ædes 4o cubits, the fančium fančiorum 2o. -
The intention of the founders of Stonehenge was this. The whole circle
was to confift of 3o ftones, each ſtone was to be 4 cubits broad, each interval
2 cubits. 3o times 4 cubitsis twice 6o: 3o times 2 cubits is 6o. So that thrice
6o cubits compleats a circle whoſe diameter is 6o. A ftone being 4 cubits
broad, and 2 cubits thick is double the interval, which is a ſquare of 2 cubits.
Change the places between the ftones and their intervals, and it will make a
good ground-plot for a circular portico of Greek or Roman work. For ſuppo
fing theſe intervals to be ſquare plinths of 2 cubits each fide, and columns pro
perly fet upon them: it will admit of 3 diameters for the intercolumniation,
which is the diaſtyle manner in architećture. . But to talk of pycnostyle with
Mr. Webb, and call theſe ſtones of ours pillars or pillafters, where they are
twice as broad as the ſpace between them, and to call this an order, is
monftrous.
Thus a ſtone and an interval in this outward circle of Stonehenge, makes
fquares; 2 allotted to the ftone, 1 to the interval; which for ſtability and beau
ty withal, in ſuch a work as ours, is a good proportion. The curiofity of the
work, and the general orthography of the outward circle, I have deſign'd in
Plate XII. and it may be feen in the feven ſtones now remaining at the grand
entrance. Which ſhow what ſtrićtly was the intent of the founders, and where
they took the liberty to relax of that ſtrićtneſs, and that with judgment; ſo
as to produce a good effećt. I ſhall explain it from Mr. Webb's own meaſures,
that I may give the truth its full advantage. P. 59. he fays, the ftones which
made the outward circle are 7 foot in breadth. Obſerve that 7 foot makes 4
cubits of the Druids. He ſays, they are 15 foot and a half high. You find
that exaćtly 9 cubits. P. 61. he fays, the architraves lying round about upon
them, are 2 foot and a halfhigh, i. e. our cubit and half. He mentions their
breadth to be 3 foot and half, equal to the thickneſs of the upright, i. e. our two
cubits. They are jointed in the middle of each perpendicular ſtone. Hence
tho’ he has not mention'd the length of theſe architraves, we gather them to be
6 cubits long. This is ſpoke of their inward length, for outwardly they muſt
needs be fomewhat longer, as being an ark of a larger circle. I muſt obſerve :
about theſe architraves, as Mr. Webb calls them, that they are more properly
call'd impoſts or corniſhes; for they are not made to ſupport any thing above
them, as is the nature of an architrave, but for the ſtability and ornament of
what ſupports them, which is the nature of impoſts and corniſhes. Tho' theſe
bodies of ſtone here, never had or were intended to have, any mouldingsupon
them, like Greek and Roman works; they are wrought perfectly plain, and
fuitable to the ſtones that ſupport them. I obſerve further, the chizeling of
our upright ftones, is only above ground. For the 4 or 5 foot in length below
ground, is left in theoriginal natural form. And that the upright ftones are made
very judiciouſly to diminiſh a little, every way; fo that at top they are but 3
cubits and a halfbroad, and fo much narrower as to ſuffer their imposts, to
hang over a little, or projećt (in properer terms) over the heads of the up
rights, both within fide and without. By this means theſe uprights are in
much leſs danger of falling or ſwerving any way: and the imposts, which
are not broader than the thickneſs of the ſtones at bottom, which ſupport them,
have a graceful effećt, by projecting a little, without danger of furcharging
them. We fee here plain, natural, eaſy geometry, what we may call the
firſt
|
|
§
į
|
| |
';
*
|•
§
N
s
::
| |
|
1
1
11 |
| |
|
|
|
| ||
|
D E S c R I B E D. 17
firſt rudiment of art, deduc'd from common reaſon: but they that can find
any Roman delicacy herein, muft, I freely own, have a much nicer eye and
tafte, than I can pretend to. The Druids had, from patriarchal times, made
their altars or temples of rude unpoliſh'd ſtones. But now hearing, probably
from Phænician traders, of the glories of Solomon's temple, at leaſt of other
temples made artfully in imitation of it; ſuch as thoſe of Sestris in Egypt, and
others about Phænicia : they thus made a ſmall approach to ſquare ſcantlings
and ſtones wrought. And this ſeems to have been the firſt and the laſt work
of theirs of this kind, that I can hear of, either in the Britanic iſles, or on the
continent. And no doubt but it muſt give them fo high a reputation, that
even the people of Gaul themſelves could not help owning to Cæſar, that the
diſcipline of theſe men was firſt begun here, and carry'd on with ſuch ſucceſs,
that they fent their youth from the continent hither, as to an academy, to be
initiated in their learning. We are not to ſuppoſe theſe words are to be ſtrićtly
taken, as if the Druids here began their inſtitution : but that being an oriental
manner of religion, and much different from that on the Gallic continent, what
they had of it there, was deriv'd from Britain. It appear'd as much new to
them, who were chiefly idolaters, as in many ages preceding, Abraham's reli
gion appear'd new to the inhabitants of Phænicia and Egypt : who were then
not much tinćtur'd with idolatry. Nor, probably, had the Druids much op
portunity of building another fuch work, as Stonehenge, between its foundati
on and the Roman times. Becauſe, I apprehend, the encroachments of the
Gallic nations from the continent, feating themſelves in Britain, about 2oo
years before Cafar's invaſion, had moleſted the Druids much, in theſe ſouthern
counties: and drove them with the old Britons, farther northward and weſt
ward. But of this we will treat more particularly afterwards, when we offer
our opinion, of the time when it was made.
In the orthographic plate, TA B. XII. we may fee the ſtrićt geometry of the TA B. XII.
work of this outward circle, and the artful variation therefrom, in order to make
the aperture of the grand entrance ſomewhat wider than the reſt. Mr. Webb
does not take notice of this particular; and he might have triumph'd in it.
For 'tis no leſs than a Vitruvian rule, to relax the intercolumniation juſt in the
middle of the portico, in the front of a temple, and over-againſt the door. He
fpeaks of it in Lib. III. 2. when talking of the Eustyle ratio, the beſt for uſe,
appearance and strength : he direćts the intercolumniation to be of two diame
ters and #; but the middle intercolumniation of three diameters. By which
means the approach to the door will be much more commodious, and nothing
diminiſh'd of beauty in aſpect. And this is the reality of the cafe before us.
But alas, our Britiſh prieſts knew nothing of Witruvius ; they deduc'd this
knack from an authority much ancienter than him, viz. from pure natural
reaſon, and good fenſe. Nor does this hurt the whole of the work. The
aperture ought ſtrićtly to have been two cubits equal to the reſt, but they ad
vânc'd it to two cubits and a half. This only crowds the next intervals on each
fide a ſmall matter nearer, the reſt preſerving their true diſtance quite round.
And in the work itſelf, 'tis obvious enough to the naked eye. Again, there is
another remarkable particular obſerv'd by our prieſts. Becauſe the aperture of
the principal entrance we are fpeaking of, is wider than the reſt: they have
made the impoſt over it thicker than the reſt, and 'tis equally obvious to the
naked eye. This was the more effećtually to fecure it from breaking. But
this additional thickneſs they have put below. They were ſenſible it would
have produc'd an ill effect at top, by breaking the line of that noble cincture.
It muſt be own'd this was extremely well adjuſted. And the breadth of the
ftone that hangs over head in this place is astoniſhing. See Plate VII. call'd a TA B. VII.
peep into the ſančium ſančiorum. I had the greateſt pleaſure imaginable, in the
year 1723, fuly, in being here for feveral days together, with the learned
Heneage Lord Winchelsta. I have juſtgeen to boaſt of that intimacy
u1g
J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
TA B. VII.
TA B. V.
TA B. XII.
dulgd me in; and his memory muſt for ever be dear to me, for his noble qua
lities. My Lord and I were very careful in taking the meaſures of Stonehenge;
and with great grief we obſerv'd, the ftones here repreſented in that Plate,
and TA B.V. the front view, to be much deviated forwards from their true
perpendicular, and in the utmoſt danger of falling. "Tis to be fear'd fome in
diſcreet people have been digging about the great entrance, with ridiculous hopes
of finding treaſure, and looſen'd thereby the chalky foundation. We found
by meaſure, that the upper edge of the impoſt overhangs no leſs than 2 foot
7 inches, which is very confiderable in a height of 18. The whole breadth at
the foundation is but 3 foot and a half. And this noble front is now chiefly kept
up by the maſonry of the mortaiſe and tenon of the impoſts.
Thro' the middle of the principal entrance, runs the principal line of the
whole work; the diameter from north-eaſt to fouth-weſt. This line cuts the
midde of the altar, length of the cell, the entrance, the entrance into the court,
and fo runs down the middle of the avenue, to the bottom of the valley for
almoſt 2ooo feet together. This is very apparent to any one at firſt fight, and
determines this for the only principal entrance of the temple. All the other
intervals of the ftones of the outer circle, have no preheminence in any re
fpećt. There is no fuch thing as three entrances, which Mr. Webb's ſcheme
fuggeſts. He might as well have pretended there are 6, for fo many points of
his triangles meet in intervals, at the verge of the outer circle. Upon this line
are all the principal centers that compoſe the work, it varies a ſmall matter
from true north-eaſt.
- The contrivance of our artificers in making mortaiſes and tenons, between
the upright ftones and the imposts is admirable, but fo contrary to any praćtice
of the Romans, that it alone is enough to diſqualify their claim to the work.
Much judgment and good fenfe is ſhewn in the management of them. The
centers of the tenons are 2 cubits diſtant from each other, upon each upright. By
this means there is 4 cubits diſtance from the center of the tenon of one ftone,
to the center of the tenon of its next neighbour, acroſs the intervals, or in
one impoſt. Divide the upper face of an upright into its 2 ſquares, the cen
ter of a tenon is in the center of that ſquare. Divide theunder face of an im
poft, into its 3 ſquares, the correſpondent mortaiſes are in the centers of the
two outermoſt fquares, and thiswas the ſtrićt geometrical method us’d by the
founders: fo that the ftones fitted, as foon as plac'd in their true fituations.
Theſe tenons and mortaiſes of this outer circle are round, and fit one another
very aptly. The tenons and mortaiſes, are Io inches and a half in diameter,
which is 3 palms, or half a cubit. They rather reſemble half an egg, than
an hemiſphere. Theſe moſt effećtually keep both uprights and impoſts from
luxation, and they muſt have uſed great labour that threw them down. Sir
Robert Sibbald ſpeaks of a rocking ftone in Ireland, contriv'd with mortaiſe
and tenon like ours: of which Mr. Toland gives us an account, with other
like, the works of the Druids.
The whole height of upright and impost is 1o cubits and a half. The up-
rights 9 cubits, the impoſt I cubit and a half, ſo that the impoſt is a 6th part
of the height of the upright. If we meaſure on the outfide, the collećtive
breadth of two upright ſtones, and the interval between them, 'tis 1o cubits
and a halfequal to the whole height; and the interval is half the breadth of a
ftone, the thickneſs of a ſtone is half its breadth. That impoſt which lies over
the grand entrance, we faid, was deeper and longer than the reſt. Abraham
Sturges an architećt, and myſelf meaſured it, in preſence of Lord Winchelea.
Its middle length is 1 I feet 1o inches, which is 6 cubits 4 palms; 2 foot 1 1
inches high, which is 1 cubit 4 palms. They have likewiſe added a little to its
breadth, more than the reſt, being 3 foot 9 inches, which is 2 cubits and a
palm. N. B. The fcale of my drawing is adapted for the infide of the cir
cle, upon which the proportions in geometry are built: ſo that the
breadths
*
§{S
|
Z
2
»
|
%4
•• •
- - -
- |
- |
* * * * * *
* - - -
- - *
-
** -
..* -
-*
*
. *
- |
.* -
* |
-
- -
- -
.." , .
- *** A
|- - - - -
|
- -
-
|
• *
- *, * --
* * * *
-N - -
- -
* - * - -
- |- |
- S , * * v.
|- - -- - -
s» s . |- -
* * * * * |
v.v - -
- * * .*
É3. sa
|
-
- --
-
-
-
-
*- S . » . . .
- · , , , * NY
|- -
S *- *
- -
*
- * • •
~ * * .
S • v • \\
"-" (-- N. -
* *
S - - |
* ~
S-- - -
-
"** |- R
|- - NRA
|
STSSS NM".
* ... ~~ - R -
- • Q -
- , u
~ -
|
~~ - 1
S • ]
EN: » NN
:S |- -
"," |
- YN A
~ J - |
"," , 1
N -
- -
« R.
- * R
- R |
- Ng v -
|
|
R- r
-
|
-
)
m
v
S
S
'NN
S
S
S N
S
| š
| Š.
Š
«
D E s C R I B E D. I 9
breadths of the uprights and lengths of the impoſts are ſomewhat more, than
by the ſcale appearsthere. - The intelligent reader knows this muſt be the con
fequence, in arks of a larger circle.
Nothing in nature could be of a more fimple idea than this vaſt circle of
ftones, and its crown-work or corona at top; and yet its effećt is truly majestic
and venerable, which is the main requifite in facred ſtrućtures. A ſingle ftone
is a thing worthy of admiration, but the boldneſs and great relievo of the
whole compages, can only be rightly apprehended, from view of the original.
On the outfide, the impoſts are rounded a little to humour the curvity of the
circle, and within they are ſtrait, tho' they ought to be a little curv'd. This
makes them ſomewhat broader in the middle, than at the end, and broader than
the 2 cubits, which is the thickneſs of the upright ſtones, upon an ichnography.
So that within, the crown-work makes a polygon of 3o fides. But this little
artifice without debafing the beauty of the work in the leaft, adds much
ftrength to the whole, and to the impoſts in particular. We may gueſs their
proportions are well chofe, when fo many of them are thrown down by vio
lence, and not broke in the fall. And their greater breadth in the middle, or
that part that covers the intervals, adds to the folemnity of the place, by the
fhadow they preſent at the bottom. The whole affair of jointing in this build
ing is very curious, and ſeems to be the oldeſt and only ſpecimen of this kind
of work in the world. There is nothing, that I know of, comes in competi
tion withit, but the celebrated ruins at Per/polis. TAB. XXXV. Itis compos'd TA :
of great ftones laid acroſs one another, as Stonehenge: but not with mortaiſe XXXV.
and tenon. The vulgar and learned too, generally take it for the remains of
the palace of the Perſian monarchs, burnt by Alexander the great; but it is
really an open temple like ours, and made much in the fame manner. But the
ftones are well ſquar'd, ornamented with mouldings and carvings, and the
whole of them are ſquares, not round works as here. Perſepolis is a mixture,
between the ancient patriarchal round form of open temples, and the fquare
form introduc'd under the fewiſh diſpenſation, in oppoſition to the former,
which were generally degenerated into idolatrous purpoſes. But of this I
fhall ſpeak more perhaps hereafter, when I treat of the moſt ancient tem
les. -
P Of the outer circle at Stonehenge which in its perfećtion confiſted of 6o
ftones, 3o uprights and 3o impoſts, there are more than half the uprights,
viz. 17 left ſtanding. I 1 of theſe uprights remain, continuous, by the grand
entrance, five impoſts upon them. , One upright at the back of the temple
or on the ſouth-weſt, leans upon a ſtone of the inner circle. There are fix
more lying upon the ground, whole or in pieces, . So that 24 out of 3o are
ftill viſible at the place. There is but one impoſt more in its proper place.
And but two lying upon the ground, ſo that 22 are carried off. Hence I in
fer, this temple was not defac'd when chriſtianity prevailed. But fome rude
and ſacrilegious hands carried the ſtones away for otherufes. However it can
not but be the higheſt pleaſure imaginable to a regular mind, to walk round
and contemplate the ſtately ruins which I have endeavour'd to preſerve in the
outfide views, fuch as TAB. XIII. from the fouth-weſt, and fo of the reſt. TA B. XIII.
But we may ſay with Lucan,
fam magis atque magis præceps agit omnia fatum. N
C H A P.
2.O S 7 0 N E H E N G E
C H A P. IV.
Ofthe leffer circle of stones, without imposts. A diſputation against
Mr. Webb.
A NY drawings have been made and publiſh'd, of Stonehenge. But
they are not done in a ſcientific way, fo as may prove any point, or
improve our underſtanding in the work. I have therefore drawn four archi
Ta s. XII. tećtonic orthographies: one, TAB. XII. is of the front and outfide: three are
different fećtions upon the two principal diameters of the work. Theſe will for
ever preſerve the memory of the thing, when the ruins even of theſe ruins are
periſh'd ; becauſe from them and the ground-plot, at any time, an exaćt mo
Ta ». XIv, del may be made. TAB. XIV, XV, XVI. theſe orthographies ſhow the pri
XV, XVI. mary intent of the founders; they are the defigns, which the Druids made, be
fore they put the work in execution. And by comparing them with the draw
ings correſpondent, of the ruins, we gain ajuſt idea of the place, when it was
in its perfećtion. But now as we are going to enter into the building, it will
TA B. XI. be proper again to furvey the ground-plot, TAB. XI. which is fo different from
that publiſh’d by Mr. Webb. Inſtead of an imaginary hexagon, we fee a moſt
noble and beautiful ellipſis, which compoſes the cell, as he names it, I think
adytum a proper word. There is nothing like it, to my knowledge, in all an
tiquity; and 'tis an original invention of our Druids, an ingenious contrivance
to relax the inner and more ſacred part, where they perform’d their religious of
fices. The two outward circles do not hinder the fight, but add much to the
folemnity of the place and the duties, by the crebrity and variety of their in
tervals. They that were within, when it was in perfećtion, would fee a moſt
notable effećt produc'd by thiselliptical figure, included in a circular corona, ha
ving a large hemiſphere of the heavens for its covering.
Somewhat more than 8 feet inward, from the infide of this exterior circle,
is another circle of much leffer ftones. In the meaſure of the Druids 'tis five
cubits. This circle was made by a radius of 24 cubits, drawn from the com
mon centers of the work. This ſtruck in the chalk the line of the circumfe
rence wherein they fet theſe ſtones. The ſtones that compoſe it are 4o in num
ber, forming with the outward circle (as it were) a circular portico: a moſt
beautiful walk, and of a pretty effećt. Somewhat of the beauty of it may be
TAB. XVII. ſeen in Plate XVII. where, at preſent. 'tis moſt perfećt. We are impos'd on,
in Mr. Webb's ſcheme, where he places only 3o ſtones equal to the number of the
outer circle, the better to humour his fancy of the dipteric aſpećt, p. 76. He
is for perſuading us, this is a Roman work compos'd from a mixture ofthe plain
neſs and ſolidneſs of the Tuſcan order, with the delicacy of the Corinthian.
That in aſpećt 'tis dipteros hypaethros, that in manner 'tis pycnostylos ;
which when apply'd to our antiquity, is no better than playing with
words. For ſuppoſe this inner circle confifted of only 3o ſtones, and
they fet as in his ſcheme, upon the fame radius, as thoſe of the outer: what
conformity has this to a portico properly, to an order, tufċan, corinthian -or
any other, what fimilitude is there between theſe ſtones and a column? where
one fort is ſquare oblong, the other oppofite (by his own account) pyramidal.
Of what order is a column, or rather a pilaſter, where its height is little more
than twice its diameter? Where is the baſe, the ſhaft, the capital, or any
thing that belongs to a pillar, pillafter or portico? the truth and fact is this.
The inner circle has 4o ſtones in it. Whence few or none but thoſe two in
tervals upon the principal diameter, happen preciſely to correſpond with thoſe
of the outer circle. Whereby a much better effećt is produc'd, than if the
caſe had been as Webb would have it. For a regularity there, would have been
trifling
í
í
2
*|--
-
|---t
|-:---|-|-|-|
-----:--
|--'..*.:-
-|-•,
--
-'..--'',
--.**.
.
"
|-',.--
--.**
,
|--*\'.:---*
.'.\:-.*
i.
"')%:----'',
-
-*-
-,
'».|
---.---
-*",'.–4:|-:·
|--·
«--
-
--
|--*:-.-
----
-:’
|--
---**-|------
-----
.*.'.---„“<-.
"
---:
`-'s--.-|---|-
--|---
-
--.
----
--.*
-.*-*.--|--".---
--
".------:||----
-:-----:------
**-|----
--:---
--*---
-|--*---
.
-----"
--'.----*
------|
-----
----
-----
--•,---:
----.--
»
---Ñ-N-|-';
-
|
------|
-----
--
---
----|
--
|---
|
|-.
-*
------
-
--',
-.-".
-
-.'----
-*',
:-'.:",
*
.
:.:
*
--|':.
-A|-|
-*--
{--*
-*
-
:'|-'.
**
--1
-
-
--
-
---
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
|--
-
-
*:
*
,«':
-
*;:.
*-|
-
*|
*
--
*
---
%--
:|--
'.:--,|
"..'--
-y--
:
:
:
-
*-:
- - - - - - - - - - -
• • • • •* • • • • • • • • •
'-': -
zº --
*.
*
-
|-
*
U
-
-
-
-
-
*
-
*
*
4
-
-
*
-
-
|
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
*
«.
-
- -
|- |
.
-
* |
- - |
« • . "
- -
.*
» *
. , -
- *
--
-
-
*
*
*
*- .
- - - - - - - -*. - - - - - -
* *
- -
-
-
-
- -
-
-
', -
-
-
*..." -
• • •
- - -
* * -
|- -
-
*
- «
- -
-
- * , -
- *,
- - -
-
*
-
|
-
- -
-
-
-
-
|
:
*
'.
.
'.*
',*--
|'.-.“|-",|-:|
-
:
|:-:*
.!
|-*
'4-|
--
|-----
---
:
',::
1*
(*
:
|
|
-?
|Š's§
*§
|-EŠÉsFÈËS.|GPS*ËSŠ
§--
-
||-
-
*|
-*-
*
/
/
||-|
3.~*a§*
-§-
|
ra*sQD
§§
|/
W-§--:
D E S C R I B E D. 2. Î
trifling and impertinent. Again, Mr. Webb makes theſe ſtones pyramidal in
fhape, without reaſon. They are truly flat parallelograms, as thoſe of the
outer circle. He fays, p. 59. they are one foot and a half in breadth, but
they are twice as much. Their general and defigned proportion is 2 cubits,
or two cubits and a half, as they happen'd to find fuitable ftones. A radius of
23 cubits ſtrikes the inner circumference: of 24 the outer. They are, as we
faid before, a cubit thick, and 4 cubits and a half in height, which is above
7 foot. This was their ſtated proportion, being every way the half of the
outer uprights. Such ſeems to have been the original purpoſe of the founders,
tho' 'tis not very preciſe, neither in deſign, norexecution. In fome places, the
ftones are broader than the intervals, in fome otherwiſe: fo that in the ground
lot I choſe to mark them as equal, each 2 cubits and a half. There are ſcarce
any of theſe intire, as to all theſe dimenſions; but from all, and from the ſym
metry of theſe Celtic kind of works, which I have been converſant in, I found
this to be the intention of the authors. "Tis eaſy for any one to fatisfy them
felves, they never were pyramidal; for behind the upper end of the adytum,
there are three or four left, much broader than thick, above twice; and not
the leaſt ſemblance of a pyramid. I doubt not but he means an obeliſk, to
which they might fome of them poſſibly be likened, but not at all to a pyra
mid. Nor indeed do I imagine any thing of an obeliſk was in the founders
view; but the ftones diminiſh a little upward, as common reaſon dictates they
ought to do. Nor need we beſtow the pompous words of either pyramid, or
obeliſk upon them. For they cannot be faid to imitate, either one or other,
in ſhape, uſe, much leſs magnitude: the chief thing to be regarded, in a com
pariſon of this fort. The central distance between theſe ſtones of the inner cir
cle, meaſured upon their outward circumference, is 4 cubits. I obſerve fur
ther, that the two ſtones of the principal entrance of this circle, correſpondent
to that of the outer circle, are broader and taller, and fet at a greater diſtance
from each other, being rather more than that of the principal entrance in the
outer circle. It is evident too, that they are fet ſomewhat more inward than
the reſt ; ſo as that their outward face ſtands on the line that marks the inner
circumference of the inner circle. I know no reaſon for all this, unleſs it be,
that the outfide of theſe two ſtones, is the outſide of the hither end of the el
lipfis of the adytum: for ſo it correſponds by meaſure upon the ground-plot.
This is apparent, that they eminently point out the principal entrance of that
circle, which is alſo the entrance into the adytum. For five ftones on this
hand, and five on that, are as it were the cancelli between the /ànč7um and
Jančium fančiorum, if we may uſe fuch expreſſions. 'Tis ſcarce worth
mentioning to the reader, that there never were any impoſts over the heads of
theſe ſtones of the inner circle. They are ſufficiently faſten'd into the ground.
Such would have been no fecurity to them, no ornament. They are of a harder
kind of ſtone than the reſt, as they are leffer; the better to refiſt violence.
There are but nineteen of the whole number left; but eleven of them are
ftanding in fitu. There are five in one place ſtanding contiguous, three in
another, two in another. The walk between theſe two circles, which is 3oo
foot in circumference, is very noble and very delightful. Probably it gave Ini
go fones the idea of defigning that fine circular portico, which is one great
beauty, among many, in his drawings for White-hall, publiſh'd lately from the
originals by my Lord Burlington; who has a true notion of the extraordinary
merit of that great man: and very commendably has reviv'd his memory.
Such a circular portico put in execution, would have a marvellous effećt, much
exceed a common gallery in uſe, becauſe 'tis a perpetual walk, without turn
ing back, and well becomes a royal reſidence. The beſt view of this fort, to
be had from our work, is from the north, as in TAB. XVII. the reader cannot TAB, XVII,
but obſerve, how little pretence here is for an imitation of Greek or Roman
portico's, notwithſtanding the grand andggrad. curve of the outward
Ut
22 J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
But when we fee the diſproportion of the inner circle in regard to any purpoſe
of this fort, we muſt own the invention of Hermogenes in contriving the pſeu
do-dipteros, is here apply'd with an ill grace. The founders of Stonehenge cou'd
have no need of make-ſhifts for want of room on Saliſbury plain. Or how
could a concentric row of little ftones, or pillars if he will fo have it, bear any -
reſemblance to the contrivance of Hermogenes, which confifted in having none;
in taking away the whole inner row of pillars, fo as to add to the convenience
of room, and preferve the aſpećt, at the fame time? Moſt undoubtedly the
Druids had no further meaning in it, than to make uſe of the even numbers of
3o greater ftones, and 4o lefier ſtones; and this was to produce a more per
plexed variety, by the interſtices having no regard to one another. So far were
they from having a notion of Grecian beauty, in the pillars of circular por
tico's being fet on the fame radius; pillar anſwering to pillar, intercolumniati
on to intercolumniation. And this will be ſhown repeatedly in the progreſs of
this work, to be the common praćtice of the Druids in other like in
ftances. -
But when we confider the cell, as Mr. Webb names it, we find him guilty
of great difingenuity, in ill conceiving the form of it, and in diſtorting his
ground-plots, to colour it over the better. The minute you enter this adytum,
TA B: as in TAB. XVIII. you diſcover 'tis not a hexagon, nor ever was intended for
*VIII. one, and there can be no greater abſurdity than to imagine it one. It is in
truth compos'd of certain compages of ſtones, which I ſhall call trilithons, be
cauſe made, each of two upright ftones, with an impoſt at top: and there are
manifeſtly 5 of theſe trilithons remaining. , But the naked eye eaſily diſcovers,
they are very far from making 5 fides of a hexagon. They cannot be brought
to any approach, of a truly circular polygon. 3 trilithons of the 5 are remain
ing entire, 2 are ruin'd indeed, in fome meaſure, but the ftones remain in fitu.
And nothing is eafier, than to take the ground-plot, from ſymmetry and cor
reſpondency. We fee the two trilithons on the wings or fides of the adytum,
are fet almoſt in a ſtrait line, one of another; when in a hexagon form, they
ought to make a confiderable angle. If you examine them trigonometrically,
the true angle of an hexagon is 12o degrees, but here is an angle of near 15o.
And by making it an hexagon, he ſuppoſes one trilithon entirely gone, that
neareſt the grand entrance, when there is not the leaſt appearance that ever
there were fuch ſtones there. No cavity in the earth, no ſtump or fragment
viſible, nor is it eaſy to imagine, how 3 ftones of fo vaſt a bulk could have
been clean carried away, either whole or in pieces. There is no room for
them to have been carried away whole, no traces of their having been thrown
down, broke in pieces and fo carried away. This outer fide of the work be
ing the moſt perfećt of the whole. Of the ruins of the other trilithons, there
is not the leaſt part wanting. What has been thrown down and broke, re-
mains upon the ſpot. But this trilithon in diſpute, muſt needs have been ſpi
rited away, by nothing leſs than Merlin's magic, which erećted it, as the
monks fable. Befides, if it were ſtill ſtanding, it would be very far from
making this adytum a regular hexagon, to which he has accommodated his
peripteros ſcheme: p. 87. Further, granting it was a regular hexagon, it
would be very far from correſponding with that ſcheme, or have the leaſt ap
pearance, of its being taken from fuch a one. For our editor there, has con
verted the cell quite from the nature of that at Stonehenge. He has made the
upper end of hiscell at theletter H oppofite to the grand entrance G, nota tri
lithon as it is notoriouſly at Stonehenge, but an angular interval between 2 trili
thons. It is not the fide of the figure, but the angle. Whereas it is moſt no
torious at Stonehenge, that the upper end of the adytum oppofite to the grand
entrance, and to the whole length of the avenue and entrance between it and
the area, is a trilithon; not an angle or interval. And that trilithon is exceed
ing ſtately, tho' in ruins, one of the upright ftones being fallen, other
eaning.
--
z
§
Š
S
§
ŘE § |
RS
İş
§
Š
Š
§
§|
§l
.
|
P 22. TAB.XII.
D E s c R I B E D. 23
leaning. So that here, we have the cell converted full a 6th part of the whole
compaſs, from its true and original fituation, and fo in all the ſchemes of Mr.
Webb's book, not one excepted. In that, for inſtance, Scheme I, p. 56, the
high altar is plac'd at D not againſt a trilithon, as it ought to be, oppỏfite to
the grand entrance in the front of the temple, and to the (only) entrance be
low, into the area, but against an angle between two. If then you ſuppoſe
that hexagon remov'd back a 6th part, fo as that a trilithon be fet behind the
high altar, as it is really in the thing its felf, and upon the principal diameter of
the whole work: then this abſurd conſequence follows, that the oppofite tri
lithon of the cell stands in the very midſt of the entrance into the cell, upon
the fame principal ground-line or diameter of the work, and quite obstrůćts
the view and entrance into it. It is altogether as ridiculous, as if a dead wall
was built under St. Paul's organ-loft, which is and ought to be the chief en
trance into the choir. Befides, by Webb's ground plots and uprights, it ſeems
as if when you entred this adytum, there were 3 trilithons on the right, and 3
on the left, whereas it is moſt obvions, there are but two on the right, ană
two on the left; when you advance into it, the orderly way, from the north
eaſt grand entrance of the avenue; which he himſelf p. 55. owns to be the
principal. But I am tired of ſo ungrateful a taſk, which neceſity alone could
have extorted from me.
C H A P. V.
Of the cellor adytum of Stonehenge. Of the Surgeons amphi
theater, London.
Iſputations become cloiſters and porticoe's. Let us now with minds
free from paffion, enter the adytum with an intent to find out its true
figure, to examine what it really was, and what it is. And that may eaſily be
done, becauſe (as I faid before) as to the trilithons of which it is chiefly com
pos'd, they are all remaining. Not a bit is loft, but what miſchievous and filly
people knock off with hammers, to fee whether, as the wretched vulgar notion
would have it, the ftonesbe faćtitious. TAB. XVIII. is a deſign of it, which
I made fitting in the center of the grand entrance in the inner circle. This
point is properly the door-way or entrance into the adytum, as a wicket or little
door, whilſt the jambs of the hithermoſt trilithons preſent themſelves, as the
greater door, of above 4o feet wide, 25 cubits. I obſerve in the old Greek ſtory,
many footſteps of the primitive patriarchal way left in their ſacred ſtrućtures,
which are parallels to this work before us, and others of our Druids. For in
ftance, Pauſànias in atticis ſpeaks of a temple dedicate to Venus, in the front
of which, is a wall (as he calls it) built of rude ſtones. Nevertheleſs he con
cludes it to be a very famous work. One may very well imagine, this wall of
rude ſtones is the remnant of fome fuch old work as ours, left for the ſacred re
gard the people had to it, even after art was rifen to great height, together with
fuperſtition and idolatry. For that the moſt ancient Greeks had very little of
idolatry, any more than our Druids, I ſhall ſhow when I diſcourſe on that
head. Again : the more ſacred part of the temple at Hierapolis anſwering to
our Adytum, had no door, tho' none enter'd therein but the chief priests. Lu
cian de deá Syria. I ſuppoſe it was in imitation of the ancient uſage, without
doors to ſhut or open, as our temple here. For the ancients thought it wrong,
to confine the deity, as it were, within any cover'd place: 'till Moſes, by God's
direćtion, made a tabernacle cover'd with ſkins, which was to adumbrate the
Meſfiah Son of God, who was to be cloathed with our nature, And Solo
- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - * - * - mon's
TA B.
XVIII.
24 J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
mon's temple was builtin imitation of this tabernacle. But before that, the an
cients meant no more by temples, or altars, as they were firſt call'd, than a
certain known and conſpicuous place, ornamented in a particular manner, that
fhould mark out a kebla, or a place towards which we are to addreſs the Deity,
and that for uniformity ſake. As the Turks and Arabians do now, who are the
deſcendants of Iſhmael, and had this cuſtom from Abraham. Tho' the ſupreme
Being be omnipreſent, yet for our convenience, where time, place, and fuch
kind of circumſtances are neceſſary to a public aćtion, he would have, as it
were, the place of his preſence made notorious. As in the fewiſh diſpenſation
he did in a moſt extraordinary manner, by the /bechinah. And from Solomon's
temple, all the reſt of the world borrow'd the faſhion of temples, properly
fo call'd, built magnificently and with roofs. For the ſacred houſes mention'd
in ſcripture before then, were only little chapels, ſhrines, like our Druids kist
vaens, which fometime they carried about in a cart, fometime were fix'd in ci
ties, for publick uſe ; as Beth Dagon, and the like. Theſe were but kistvaens
improv'd, niches turn'd into facella, in imitation of two or three ftones in A
braham's altars, which we may well call the kebla, and find many of them a
mong our Druid antiquities. -
The cell is form’d by a radius of 12 cubits and a half, from the two centers a
and b, as to the inward curve; the outward takes a radius of 15 cubits ; for
theſe ſtones are two cubits and a half thick. The two circles are turn'd into an
oval, by a radius of 3o cubits, (after the uſual manner) fet in the two centers
c and d, where the two circles interfećt. The former centers are 12 cubits
and a half diſtant from each other, the length of the radius. The fame oval
is obtain'd by a ſtring of 6o cubits, the ends ty'd together, and turn'd round
upon two centers, according to the gardiners method. An oval form’d as this
is, upon two centers coinciding with each other's circumference; or, which is
the fame thing, whoſe centers are diſtant from each other the length of their
radius, is moſt natural and moſt beautiful, being the ſhape ofan egg, Moſt
probably theſe religious philoſophers had a meaning, in thus including an egg
like figure, within a circle, more than mere affećtation of variety. Whatever
that was, we may reaſonably conclude, that from the method in antiquity, of
making the kebla of a curved figure, the chriſtians borrowed theirs of turning
the eaſt end of their churches in that manner; and that the Druids in the work
before us, have produc'd the nobleſt kistvaen or kebla that is known.
My purpoſe in drawing many prickt lines upon the plate, is not difficult to
be underſtood. Nor does it require particular explanations. To avoid affećtation
or tediouſneſs, I leave them to the readers amuſement: only obſerve, that Mr.
Webb's equilateral triangles have no hand in forming the cell. The intent of
it is very diſtant from a regular polygon. But that it is incomparably more
beautiful; than ſuch a one would have render'd it. It is as a magnificent niche
27 cubits long, and as much broad, meaſuringin the wideſt place.
This part is call'd >nuo; or concha templi and adytum, into which, we may
fuppoſe, none but the upper order of prieſts, together with the high-prieſt,
were commonly to enter, during the time of miniſtration, in religious rites.
We may imagine the beauty of the appearance here upon thoſe occaſions,
when an innumerable company of the Druids affifted, all in white ſurplices.
The center of the excentricity of this oval is but three cubits nearer the entrance,
than the center of the whole work. And they have cut off but one trilithon,
which they make the opening of the adytum; meeting the eye to great advan
tage, from the grand entrance. By aforefaid contrivance, there is left a
fpace of five cubits between the jambs of the opening of the adytum, and the
inner circle in front, juſt the fame as is between the inner and outer circle. The
inner circle there performing the office of cancelli to it, as we obſerv'd before.
If a choir of this form was put in praćtice, and executed by a maſterly hand,
it would have a very extraordinary effećt, and perhaps excel the too fimilar
COI1Ca VG
-
*Z
Ż
|
|
-
-
-
s
-
*) A
R T O NJ F H E N G E
D E S C R I B E D. 25
concave of a cupola. Our Druids had undoubtedly ſuch a notion, in placing
this within a circle. And for the fake of this, they turn'd the two circles
into a ſmaller ſpecies of an ellipfis. -
There's a Druid antiquity like our adytum in ſhape, call'd Eglwys Glominog,
on the top of Arennig vaur in Lhanykil pariſh, Merionydhſhire, but made of a
continued wall. The ancients thought the world of an egg-like ſhape, and as
the world is the temple of the Deity, they judg'd it proper to form their tem
ples, fo as to have a reſemblance thereto. The ancient hieroglyphic of the Deit
is a circle, and I have reaſon to believe it more ancient than the flood. Plató,
who learnt much from the anceſtors of our Druids, fays in Diogenes Laertius,
that God is ſpherical, which he muſt mean hieroglyphically. So our Druids,
as well as he, may mean the infinity of nature in the Deity, who made the
world, by this ſcheme of Stonehenge; at leaſt they underſtand by the circle,
the feat and reſidence of the Deity, the heavens, which include all things.
It ſeems to me, that Inigo fones from this adytum projećted the plan of the
Surgeons theatre in London, a fabric for feeing and hearing much admired b
all good judges. And which my Lord Burlington, out of a ſpirit truly noble,
and a great love for the architect's memory, has lately repair'd, with his own
charges and excellent ſkill. I find the Surgeons theatre (or rather amphitheatre)
is form’d from the fame proportion as our adytum, the tranſverfe and conjugate
diameters being as 4 to 3, viz. 4o foot and 3o foot. And this appears to me
a ſtrong preſumption, that Inigo fones did not make the ground-plot of Stone
henge, publiſh'd under his name. The Surgeons amphitheatre is a good deal
leſs than our cell. -
Such is the noble and eaſy geometry of the adytum of Stonehenge. The
ftones that compoſe it, are really ſtupendous, their height, breadths and thick
nefs are enormous, and to fee fo many of them plac'd together, in a nice and
critical figure, with exaćtneſs; to confider, as it were, not a pillar of one
ftone, but a whole wall, a fide, an end of a temple of one ftone; to view
them curiouſly, creates ſuch a motion in the mind, which words can't expreſs.
One very remarkable particular in the conſtrućtion of this adytum, has eſcaped
all obſervers: which is this. As this part is compos'd of trilithons (as I before
call them) fett two and two on each fide, and one right before; they rife in
height and beauty of the ſtones, from the lower end of the adytu», to the
upper end. My meaning is this. The two hithermoſt trilithons correſpond
ing, or thoſe next the grand entrance, on the right hand, and on the left are
exceeded in height, by the two next in order; and thoſe are exceeded by the
trilithon behind the altar, in the upper end of this choir. So that in laying
down the meaſures of the parts, that compoſe this place, the reader muſt be
content to take my word. Mr. Webb's meaſures cannot be preciſe in all of
them, feeing he knew nothing of this particular; and that his notion of an
hexagon, is contradićted by it, as well as by faćt. . “He ſays p. 6o. the ſtones
“ of the greater hexagon ſeven foot and a half in breadth, three foot nine
“ inches thick, and twenty foot high, each ſtone having one tenon in the
“ middle.” His meaſure of ſeven foot and a half in breadth, only ſhews the
vaftneſs of the ftones, it is no precife meaſure, for the founders regarded not
any precifeneſs in their breadth: becauſe two together were deſign'd to make a
compages, whereon to fet the impoſt, and this I call a trilitbon. Each trili
thon ſtands by its felf, independant of its neighbour, not as the ftones and im
posts of the outer circle, link'd together in a continued corona, by the impoſts
carried quite round. Indeed the breadth of a ſtone at bottom is ſeven feet and
a half, which is 4 cubits and a half. Two ſtones therefore amount to nine cu
bits, and there is a cubit of interval between them, making in the whole ten
cubits. But they were not careful of the particulars, only of the whole, in
one of theſe compages or trilithons. I
H Il
26 J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
TA B. XV.
The ſtones of the cell are made to diminiſh very much, towards the
top, moſt apparently with a defign, to take off from their weight, and
render them what we call top-heavy, in a leſs degree. Hence the interval be
tween thetwo upright ftones of the compages widens fo much upwards. This
muſt certainly contribute very much, to their ſtability. In affigning 2o foot
for their height, Mr. Webb has well taken the medium. A very ſmall
matter more than 2o feet makes exaćtly 12 cubits of the Hebrews, Egyp
tians and Druids. The reader remembers the proportion I affign'd between the
Engliſh foot and this cubit. 2o inches and # make a cubit, therefore 2o feet
and # make 12 cubits. The true caſe as to the height of the trilithons, is thus
reſpećtively, and which may be feen in TAB. XV. with the harmony and
fymmetry, in the proportion of the whole. We may obſerve their gradual ri
fing in height, all from the fame baſe, like pillars of higher orders and more
diameters. But the intelligent reader muſt needs ſee, that our founders never
had fight of Greek or Roman pillars, and never pretended to imitate them, or
take any one idea from them. And of theſe three different orders or degrees of
altitude, in theſe trilithons, one exceeds the other by a cubit. So that their
heightsreſpectively are 13 cubits, 14 cubits, 15 cubits.
The imposts of theſe trilithons are all of the fame height. Mr. Webb
p. 61. “informsus, the architrave lying on the top of the great ſtones of the
“ hexagon and mortaiſedalſo into them fixteen foot long, 3 foot 9 inches broad,
“ 3 foot 4 inches high.” Mr. Webb's 16foot long, is too ſcanty, it amounting
to 9 cubitsand 2 palms, butthe intent of the founders was to make theſe im
poſts equal both in length and breadth to the foundation of the upright ſtones
that ſupports them, I mean the two stones at bottom, the fuſtaining part of
the compages, which in its whole breadth makes Io cubits; and Io cubits long
the imposts are to be affign'd. Moſt certainly whoever undertake to meaſure
them, whether from thoſe fallen on the ground, or ſtill in their proper place,
will be apt to fail in giving them juſt length. Both becauſe 1, 'tis obſervable
that theſe impoſts are form’d ſomewhat broader upwards, than in their bottom
part; but this may not be taken notice of by every one. This was done very
judiciouſly upon an optical principle, which it is plain the founders were aware of
For a ſtone of fo confiderable an elevation, by this means only, preſents its
whole face in view. Therefore they that meaſure it at bottom will not take
its true length. 2. If they take the dimenſion, either from a ſtone ſtill in its
proper place, or from one fallen down, they will be very liable to ſhorten the
meaſure. For in the firſt caſe, the upper edge of theſe impoſts, muſt needs
have ſuffer'd from the weather, in fo elevated an expoſure, thro' the ſpace of
2ooo years. Itis very apparent they have ſuffered not a little. , Large and deep
furrows of age are vifible all around them. But if they meaſure thoſe fallen,
they muſt well imagine ſuch have doubly ſuffered, from weather, and from
the people every day diminiſhing all corners and edges, to carry pieces away
with them. So that in this caſe, analogy and fymmetry only can ſupply theſe
defećts. Thus we found before, that the breadth of the impoſts of the outer
circle is equal to their ichnographical breadth: fo it is here, being 1o cubits.
Befides, the outer face of theſe impoſts is longer than the inner, as being in
the larger circle. Therefore ten cubits is to be underſtood their medium mea
fure.
Mr. Webb gives it as a general meaſure, that they are 3 foot 9 inches broad.
He has before told us, the uprights which ſupport them were 3 foot 9 thick;
take that twice, it makes 7 foot and a half, which he affigns for the breadth, of
the uprights. This is all juſt within a trifle, and it is not expećted that he
who was not aware of the cubit, by which theſe works were made, ſhould do
it with greater accuracy. The truth of the whole is this: Webb's 7 foot and half
is 4 cubits and a half, as we faid before; the half of it is 3 foot 9, and a very
little more. But this muſt be taken for the leaſt breadth of the impoſts, that
at
§
Š
Š
§
§
RS
k
|s
§
S
Š
§
S
}
§
§
§l
{
- . - * - * -
V
- - - - -
-|
|
|| |
|
|
| |||||||||||
|
| || ||
||||||
||||||
"
|
||
|||||||||||||||
| " |
|
|
| | | |
|
| | | | | | | | |||
|
| |
|
–
- - * - .
- - * - - - - * -
|
| T |
| |
|| ||||||||
P26 TAB.xiiii.
|§.È|§.fi}§
|
/
|
D E s c R I B E D. 27
at the ends. For in the middle they are ſomewhat broader. Tho the infide
faces are ſtrait, yet, as we obſerv'd, in proper place, ofthe impoſts of the outer
circle ; fo here, they are rounded behind: their outer circumference anſwer- Ta a. XI.
ing to the great oval upon which they are founded. So likewiſe their ends are
made upon a radius of that oval, whence the innner face of the impoſt is
fomewhat ſhorter than the outer, and is another reaſon why their lengths may
eafily be taken fomewhat too ſhort. I have drawn the impoſts in their true
fhape in the ground-plot. The artifice of the tenons and mortaiſes of theſe TA B. XI.
trilithons and their impoſts, what conformity they bear to that of the outer cir
cle, is exceedingly pretty, every thing being done truly geometrical, and as
would beſt anſwer every purpoſe, from plain and fimple principles. In the
bottom face of the impoſt, if divided into three ſquares, the two mortaiſes are
made in the middle of the two outermoſt ſquares. Draw diagonal lines from
corner to corner; where they interfećt, is the center of the mortaiſe; which
central diſtance from one to the other, is ſeven cubits of the Druid meaſure.
Each tenon is a cubit broad upon its longeſt diameter, for they are of an oval
figure. An admirable contrivance, that the impoſts ſhould lie firm upon the
heads of the uprights, and keep the uprights ſteady in their places, to ſtrengthen
and adorn. We may remark this pretty device, in the management of the te
nons and mortaiſes. Cut an egg acroſs upon its ſhorteſt diameter or conjugate;
one half thereof repreſents the ſhape of the tenons of the outer circle. Cut it
acroſs upon its tranſverſe diameter, one half is the ſhape of the tenons of the
adytum. ’Tis evident the meaning of it is this. The tenons of the outer cir
cle are higher in proportion, than the others, becauſe the imposts are leſs and
lower than the others, and on both accounts more liable to be diſturb'd, either
by accident or violence, than the others: therefore more caution is us'd for their
preſervation. This is an inſtance of art, noble and fimple withal. Mr. Webb
fays the impoſts are 3 foot 4 inches high, which is preciſely 2 cubits, a fixth
part of the height of the medium order of trilithons; as the impoſts of the outer
circle are a fixth part of the height of the ftones of the outer circle. The
medium order of trilithons is above 24 foot high, i. e. 14 cubits. The lower
order is 13 cubits, viz. thoſe next the entrance. The upper trilithon behind
the altar was 15 cubits. Each rifing a cubit higher than the other, as we be
fore obſerv'd. -
I promis'd to ſhow the reader what Stonehenge is, and what it was. The
latter, I preſume, is done in the four prints, TAB. XII, XIV, XV, XVI. be- TA B. XII,
ing geometric orthographical fećtions of the whole work, all necefiary ways, XIV, XV,
fuch as architećts prepare in defign, when they fet about a building. ’Tis whol- XVI.
ly needleſs to ſpend many words in explaining them. What the work is, of
our adytum at preſent, is ſhown in the ſubſequent prints, TA B. XVIII, TA B.
XXI, XXII. The Vth correſponds with the XIIth. The one ſhows the front of XVIII,
the temple when in perfection, the other as now in ruins. The XVIth may be *****".
compar'd with XIX and XX. all preſenting a view from the adytum toward
the entrance. TAB. XVIII. is a contrary view, when one ſtanding by the en
trance, looks toward the adytum. The fame is preſented in Plate VII. which
I call a peep into the fančium fančiorum. XXII. is the fame, but a little oblique.
This plate ſhows at preſent, what the XIVth does in its original. . Plate XV
and XXI. correſpond, ſhowing the adytum on one fide, in its perfect, and in
its ruinous ſtate. Particularly they explain, what I ſpoke of, as to the orderly
rifing of the trilithons in height, one above another, from the lower end to the
upper end of the adytum. TAB. XXII. illuſtrates it, by exhibiting to view, TA».XXII.
the other and moſt perfećt fide of the adytum. "Tis an oblique proſpećt of it,
from the entrance. -
The quantity of the folid is well adjuſted, in proportioning the stone-work
of this adytum, to the intervals upon the ichnography. Each trilithon is 1o
cubits, and each interval about 6. Thejambs, or vacuum of the entry
thCII)-a
TA B.
XVIII.
28 S 7' 0 N E H E N G E
themſelves to 25 cubits, which is about 43 feet. From which meaſure m -
Lord Pembroke demonstrated the falfity of Webb's hexagonal ſcheme, when his
Lordſhip first did me the honour to diſcourſe about Stonehenge. In Mr. Webb's
deſigns, we find two jambs (taking one trilithon away) expand but little above
3 1 feet, by his own ſcales. Tho I don't pretend, but that fome of my fore
going meaſures, may here and there poſibly vary a little, upon a very ſtrićt
trial, and where proper judgment is not us'd, becauſe the ftones in ſome parts
may protuberate, or great parts of them may have fallen off; yet 1o foot dif
Tap. xix, ference from truth cannot be allow'd of In the Plates XIX and XX. obſerve
XX. the infide of that upright ſtone, which makes the northern jamb of the chief
entrance of the outer circle. A very great piece is fallen off towards the top,
which diſcovers its tenon and the mortaiſe of the impoſt above it. And in the
management of ſuch prodigious ſtones as theſe are, fix'd in the ground, and
ramm'd too like poſts: 'tis not to be wonder'd at, if by chance we find fome
little variation. Tho for my own part, I obſerv'd none; rather wonder'd,
how it was poſſible for them, without lewices and the like devices, to fet them
in their places to fuch preciſeneſs. And the reader, whoſe mind has receiv'd no
prepoffeſion, cannot but be abundantly fatisfy'd, that the multitude of mea
fures I have given from Mr. Webb's own account, are perfećtly agreeable to the
fcale of cubits, deduc'd from works of the Egyptians and others: and that in
round and full numbers, not trifling fraćtions. If we collate the numbers given,
with the Roman ſcale, the meaſures appear very ridiculous and without defign;
and that is a fure way of confuting the opinion, of its being a Roman work.
But as theſe ſtones are generally rough, and by time muſt ſuffer in all dimenfi
ons, 'tis not praćtical to take their true meaſure, without neceſſary judgment,
and relation had to ſymmetry.
Of theſe greater ftones of the adytum, as I obſerved before, there are none
wanting. They are all on the ſpot, Io upright ftones, 5 corniſhes. The tri
lithon firſt on the left hand is entire in fitu, but vaſtly decay'd, eſpecially the
corniſh. There are ſuch deep holes corroded, in fome places, that daws make
their neſts in them. The next trilithon on the left hand, is entire, compos'd
of three moſt beautiful ſtones. The corniſh happen'd to be of a very durable
kind of Engliſh marble, and has not been much impair'd by weather. My
Lord Winchel/ea and myſelf took a confiderable walk on the top of it, but it
was a frightful fituation. The trilithon of the upper end of the adytum, was
an extraordinary beauty. But alas through the indiſcretion probably, of fome
body digging there, between them and the altar, the noble impoſt is diflodg'd
from its airy feat, and fallen upon the altar, where its huge bulk lies unfraćtur'd.
Recidit in ſolidam longo post tempore, terram
Pondus, & exhibuit junčiam cum viribus artem. Ovid Met.
The two uprights that ſupported it are the moſt delicate ftones of the whole
work. They were, I believe, above 3o foot long, and well chizell'd, finely
taper’d and proportion'd in their dimenſions. That ſouthward is broke in
two, lying upon the altar. The other ſtill ſtands entire, but leans upon one
of the ſtones of the inward oval.
fam jam lapſura cadentique
Imminet affimilis
The root-end or unhewn part of both, are rais'd fomewhat above ground. We
cannot be fure of the true height of this, when it was perfećt: but I am fure
15 cubits, which I have affign'd, is the loweſt. The next trilithon, that to
ward the weſt, is intire, except that fome of the end of the impoſt is fallen
- clean
§ §
ES|
$
§.§
È
§
S
S
|
§
Š
§
Ñ \\
|
\
|=l–
|*
Š$}||§
P28. TAB.XV.
D E s c R I B E D. 29
clean off, and all the upper edge is very much diminiſh'd by time. As Lucre
tius ſays,
Minui rem quamque videmus,
Et quaſi longinquo fuere omnia cernimus aevo,
Ex oculifue, vetustatem, fubducere nostris.
The laſt trilithon, that on the right hand of the entrance into the adytum, has
fuffer'd much. The outer upright being the jamb of the entrance, is ſtill
ftanding, the other upright and impoſt are both fallen forwards into the ady
tum, and broke each into three pieces. I ſuppoſe from digging near it. But
from one piece of the impoſt lying loofe, in the middle, between the jambs of
the adytum, Mr. Webb in the plan of his ruins of Stonehenge (being his 6th
Scheme) forms the remains of his imaginary 6th trilithon, ſuppoſing it one of
the ftones of the inner or leffer hexagon, as he calls it. Yet if this fragment
was really a ſtump of ſuch a ſtone, as he would have it, ftill it would not
create an hexagonal form of the cell, but ſtand juſt in the middle of the en
trance, and block it up in a very abſurd, unfeemly, and incommodious a man
ner. And nothing can be more certain, than that there never was fuch a thing
in being. That ſtone of the trilithon which is ſtanding, has a cavity in it
which two or three perſons may fit in, worn by the weather.
Stonehenge is compos'd of two circles and two ovals, reſpećtively concen
tric. At the diſtance of two cubits inward from the greater oval, deſcribe
another leffer oval, on which the ftones of the inner oval are to ſtand: 19
ftones in number, at about the central diſtance of 3 cubits. This leffer oval is
to be deſcrib’d by a ſtring and the 2 centers, as before. Or by 2 circles from a 1o
cubit radius, and the 2 centers aand b, as ofthe otherbefore was ſpoken. Mr.Webb
fays, p. 6o, “ the ſtones of the hexagon within, 2 foot 6 inches in breadth, one
“ foot and a half thick and 8 foot high, in form pyramidal.” His two foot
and a half is our cubit and half, for the breadth of theſe ftones; being but a
third of the breadth of the ftones of the greater oval. And the interval be
tween ſtone and ftone, the fame. Their height is likewife unequal, as the
trilithons, for they rife in height as nearer the upper end of the adytum. Mr. TA B. XV,
Webb's 8 foot affign'd, is a good medium meaſure, for it is juſt 4 cubits and 4
palms, the third part of the height of the medium trilithon. From the ruins
of thoſe left, we may well ſuppoſe, the firſt next the entrance and loweſt
were 4 cubits high; the moſt advanc'd height behind the altar might be five
cubits, and perhaps more. The stones are ſomewhat of what Mr. Webb calls a
yramidal form, meaning that of an Egyptian obeliſk, for they taper a little
upwards. They are of a much harder fort than the other ſtones, as we ſpoke
before, in the leffer circle. The founders provided that their lester bulk ſhould
be compenſated in ſolidity. They were brought ſomewhere from the
weſt. Of theſe there are only 6 remaining upright. The ftumps of two
are left on the ſouth fide by the altar. One lies behind the altar, dug up or
thrown down, by the fall of that upright there. One or two were thrown
down probably, by the fall of the upright of the firſt trilithon on the right
hand. A ſtump of another remains by the upright there, ſtill ſtanding.
Their exaćt meaſures either as to height, breadth or thickneſs, cannot well be
aſcertain'd. For they took ſuch as they could find, beſt ſuiting their ſcantlings,
but the ſtones were better ſhap'd and taller, as advancing towards the upper
end of the cell.
I C H A P.
3o S 7' 0 N E H E N G E
C H A P. VI.
Of the number of the stones. Of the altar-stone. Of what has
heen found in digging, about the temple. Aplate of tin of the
Druids writing. Aplate of gold, /uppoſed to be of the Druids
writing.
HU S have we finiſhed the work, or principal part of this celebrated
wonder; properly the temple or ſacred ſtructure, as it may be called.
Tho' its loftieſt creſt be compos'd but of one ftone, laid upon another. . “ A
“ work, as Mr. Webb fays juſtly, p. 65. built with much art, order and pro
“ portion.” And it muſt be own'd, that they who had a notion, that it wasan
unworthy thing, to pretend to confine the deity in room and ſpace, could not
eaſily invent a grander deſign than this, for ſacred purpoſes: nor execute it in
a more magnificent manner. Here ſpace indeed is mark'd out and defin’d:
but with utmoſt freedom and openneſs. Here is a kebla intimating, but not
bounding the preſence of the Deity. Here the variety and harmony of four
differing circles preſents itſelf continually new, every ſtep we take, with open
ing and clofing light and fhade. . Which way fo ever we look, art and nature
make a compoſition of their higheſt guſto, create a pleaſing aftoniſhment, ve
ry appoſite to ſacred places.
The great oval confifts of Io uprights, the inner with the altar, of 2o, the
great circle of 30, the inner of 4o. Io, 2o, 3o, 4o together, make Ioo u
right ftones. 5 impoſts of the great oval, 3o of the great circle, the 2 ſtones
ftanding upon the bank of the area, the ftone lying within the entrance of the
area, and that ſtanding without. There ſeems to have been another ſtone
lying upon the ground, by the vallum of the court, direćtly oppoſite to the en
trance of the avenue. All added together, make juſt 14o ſtones, the number
of which Stonehenge, a whole temple, is compos'd. Behold the ſolution of
the mighty problem, the magical ſpell is broke, which has fo long perplex'd the
vulgar! they think 'tis an ominous thing to count the true number of the ſtones,
and whoever does fo, ſhall certainly die after it. Thus the Druids con
tented themſelves to live in huts and caves: whilſt they employ'd many thou
fands of men, a whole county, to labour at theſe publick ſtrućtures, dedicated
to the Deity.
Our altar here is laid toward the upper end of the adytum, at preſent flat on
the ground, and ſqueez'd (as it were) into it, by the weight of the ruins upon it.
"Tis a kind of blue coarſe marble, ſuch as comes from Derbyſhire, and laid
upon tombs in our churches and church-yards. Thus Virgil deſcribes an an
cient altar, after the Etruſcan faſhion, and which probably had remain'd from
patriarchal times. -
Ædibus in mediis nudoque fub ætheris axe
Ingens ara fuit. AEne. II.
Servius upon the IIId Georg. fays, in the middle of a temple was the place
of the Deity: the reſt was only ornamental. This altar is plac'da little above
the focus of the upper end of the ellipfis. Mr. Webb ſays, p. 56, the altar is 4
foot broad, 16 in length. 4 foot is 2 cubits 2 palms, which at four times
meaſures 16 foot. I believe its breadth is 2 cubits 3 palms, i. e. 1 and a half:
and that its firſt intended length was 1o cubits, equal to the breadth of the tri
lithon before which it lies. But 'tis very difficult to come at its true length.
'Tis 2o inches thick, a juſt cubit, and has been ſquar'd. It lies between the
tWO
Š
s
R
Ès
|B
§
§S
|Š
|
§
-
|
-
– -
-
----
-- - - - |- – l= = = |
-
-
– -
-
-
- -
- -
-
– =
-
-
- - - - - |
_ – - * - * * - -- –-
- - T - - - - - -
-
-
-
-
-
- *
-
. . .
----
|
----
-------
---- .
-
|||||||
ès
| | | |
Ñ
*
*
W
Ñ
R A
- ----
~~~~
|
|
1
si
|
I
|
||
| §
c
iŠ,i
S
•
|$Ss
P30. TAB xvi.
.** *
- - -
*
* -
<
D E s c R I B E D. 3 I
two centers, that of the compaſſes and that of the ſtring: leaving a convenient
fpace quite round it, no doubt, as much as was neceſſary for their miniſtra
t1OI).
Mr. Webb ſays, the heads of oxen, and deer, and other beaſts have been
found upon digging in and about Stonehenge, as divers then living could teſtify,
undoubted reliques of ſacrifices, together with much charcoal, meaning wood
aſhes. Mr. Camden fays, mens bones have been found hereabouts. He means
in the barrows adjacent, and I ſaw fuch thrown out by the rabbets very near the
temple. But eternally to be lamented is the loſs of that tablet of tin, which
was found at this place, in the time of King Henry VIII. (the Æra of reſtitu
tion of learning and of pure religion) inſcrib'd with many letters, but in fo
ftrange a charaćter, that neither Sir Thomas Elliot a learned antiquary, nor
Mr. Lilly maſter of St. Paul's ſchool, could make any thing out of it. Mr.
Sammes may be in the right, who judges it to have been Punic; I imagine if
we call it Iriſh, we ſhall not err much. No doubt but it was a memorial of
the founders, wrote by the Druids: and had it been preſerv'd till now, would
have been an invaluable curiofity. To make the reader fome amends for fuch
a loſs, I have given a ſpecimen of ſuppoſed Druid writing, out of Lambecius's
account of the Emperor's library at Vienna. "Tis wrote on a very thin plate
of gold, with a ſharp-pointed inſtrument. It was in an urn found at Vienna,
roll'd up in ſeveral caſes of other metal, together with funeral exuviae. It was
thought by the curious, one of thoſe epiſtles, which the Celtic people were
wont to fend to their friends in the other world. So certain a hope of a fu
ture ſtate had the Druids infus'd into them. The reader may divert himſelf
with endeavouring to explain it. The writing upon plates of gold or tin is
exceeding ancient, as we ſee in job xix. 24.
TIWDAKO HET ND *
4 . WTYRE DAOYAyA
WEWEV. NERRTAI VÀ
țBA . /CRNNO ++414
ár svazpiavº rºbº
RABAV (0^*
Plutarch in his pamphlet de demonio Socratis teils a fimilar ſtory. “ About
“ the time ofAggſilaus, they found a brazen tablet in the ſepulchre of Aleviena
“ at Thebes, wrote in charaćters unknown, but feem'd to be Egyptian. Choiu
“ phis, the moſt learned of the Egyptian prophets then, being conſulted upon
“ it, confirm’d it, and faid it was wrote about the time of Hercules and Pro
“ teus king in Egypt. Tzetzes, chil. 2. hiſt. 44. mentions Proteus a king in
“ lower Egypt by the fea fide, pretends he was fon of Neptune and Phænicia,
throwing him up thereby to very ancient times, thoſe of the firſt famous na
vigators, our Hercules and the Phænicians. He is faid to have lived in the
ifland afterward call'd Pharos, from the watch-tower there erećted. Here Ilo
mer fings, that Profeus diverts himſelf with his phocae or fea-calves, moſt un
doubtedly
3 2. J W O N E H E N G E
TA B.
XXXI.
doubtedly his ſhips. But at that time of day, every thing new and strange was
told by the Greeks in a mythologic way.
In the year 1635, as they were by the barrows about Normanton
ditch, they found a large quantity of excellent pewter, as much as they fold at
a low price for 5 l. ſays Mr. Aubry in his manuſcript collećtions, relating to
antiquities of this fort. There are feveral of theſe ditches, being very ſmall in
breadth, which run acroſs the downs. I take them for boundaries of hundreds,
pariſhes, &c. Such as the reader may obſerve in my Plate XXXI. of the bar
rows in Lake-feld. I fufpećt this too was a tablet with an inſcription on it, but
falling into the hands of the countrymen, they could no more diſcern the
writing, than interpret it. No doubt but this was fome of the old Briti/h/tan
num, which the Tyrian Hercules, firnam'd Melcarthus, firſt brought ex Caffi
teride infilla, or Britain. Which Hercules liv'd in Abraham's time, or foon
after.
Mr. Webb tells us, the Duke of Buckingham dug about Stonehenge: I fear
much to the prejudice of the work. He himſelf did the like, and found what
he imagin'd was the cover of a thuribulum. He would have done well to have
given us a drawing of it. But whatever it was, vafes of incenſe, oil, flower,
falt, wine and holy water, were uſed by all nations in their religious ceremo
Il 1CS.
Mr. Thomas Hayward, late owner of Stonehenge, dug about it, as he ac
quainted Lord Winchefféa and myſelf. He found heads of oxen and other
beasts bones, and nothing elſe. In 1724. when I was there, Richard Hayns
an old man of Ambro/bury, whom I employed to dig for me in the barrows,
found fome little worn-out Roman coins at Stonehenge, among the earth rooted
up by the rabbets. He fold one of thern for half a crown, to Mr. Merril of
Golden Square, who came thither whilſt I was at the place. The year before,
Hayns was one of the workmen employ’d by Lord Carlton to dig clay on
Harradon hill, eaſt of Ambre/bury, where they found many Roman coins,
which I ſaw. I fufpećt he pretended to find thoſe at Stonehenge, only for fake
of the reward. My friend the late Dr. Harwood of Doĉfors-Commons told me,
he was once at Stonehenge with ſuch fort of Roman coins in his pockets, and
that one of his companions would have perſuaded him, to throw fome ofthem
into the rabbit-holes: but the Doćtor was more ingenuous. Nevertheleſs were
never fo many fuch coins found in Stonehenge, they would prove nothing more,
than that the work was in being, when the Romans were here; and which we
are affured of already. I have a braſs coin giyen me by John Collins Eſq; col
lector of the exciſe at Stamford. The heads of /ulius and Augustus averſe: the
reverſe a crocodile, palin-branch and garland, co L. N E M. the colony of Ne
nau/its in France. It was found upon Saliſbury plain; and might be loſt
there before the Roman conqueſt of Britan under Claudius, by people of
France coming hither; or in after-ages: no matter which.
fuly 5 1723. By Lord Pembroke's direćtion, I dug on the infide of the al
tar about the middle: 4 foot along the edge of the ftone, 6 foot forward to
ward the middle of the adytum. At a foot deep, we came to the ſolid chalk
mix'd with flints, which had never been ſtir'd. The altar was exactly a cubit
thick, 2o inches and #; but broken in two or three pieces by the ponderous
mafies of the impoſt, and one upright ftone of that trilithon which ſtood at the
upper end of the adytum, being fallen upon it. I Ience appears the commodi
oufneſs of the foundation for this huge work. They dug holes in the ſolid
chalk, which would of itſelf keep up the ftones, as firm as if a wall was built
round them. And no doubt but they ramm'd up the interſtices with flints.
But I had too much regard to the work, to dig any where near the ftones. I
took up an oxe's tooth, above ground, without the adytu'n on the right hand
of the lowermoſt trilithon, northward. And this is all the account, of what
has been found by digging at Stonehenge, which I can give,
C H A P.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
|ş#
;
Z
#
97, mnam// w g/.$/w/.y
zź-4. y 4/x .
a
/?%34-./3.
|
D E S C R I B E D. 33
C H A P. VII.
Ofthe area round Stonehenge. The bowing stones. The manner
of facrificing.
F the court round the temple of Stonehenge, ſomewhat is faid already,
and of the two ſtones ſtanding within the vallum : and of the two cavi
ties remarkable, which have fome correſpondency therewith. I ſuppoſed, they
were places, where two great vaſes ofwater ſtood, for the fervice of the tem
ple, when they perform’d religious rites here. And I endeavour'd to illuſtrate
it by a coin of the city Heliopolis. 6o cubits is the diameter of Stonehenge, 6o
more reaches the inner edge of the circular ditch of the court. The ditch ori
ginally was near 3o cubits broad, but thro’ long traćt of time, and the infini
ty of coaches, horfes, &c. coming every day to ſee the place, 'tis levell'd very
much. The intire diameter of the court, reaching to the outward verge of the
ditch, is 4 times 6o cubits, which is about 41o foot. The five outer circles
of the ditch are ſtruck with a radius of 8o, 9o, Ioo, 1 Io, 12o cubits.
Juſt upon the inner verge of the ditch, at the entrance from the avenue, lies
a very large ftone, at preſent flat on the ground. Mr. Webb, p. 57. pretends
to give us the meaſure of it, confounding it with the other two before-men
tion'd to be within the vallum, to which they have no relation, no fimilarity
in proportion. This is to favour his notion of three entrances of the area, de
pendant upon his hypotheſis of equilateral triangles. He there tells us at the
Îetter F, “ the parallel ſtones on the infide of the trench were four foot broad
“ and three foot thick; but they lie fo broken and ruin'd by time, that their
“ proportion in height cannot be distinguiſh'd, much leſs exaćtly meaſur'd.”
Thus he, but 'tis invita Minervá; for all three ftones, in all appearance, are
as little alter'd from their firſt fize, as any ſtones in the work. The two ſtones
within the vallum are very ſmall ſtones, and ever were fo. The one ſtands ;
the other leans a little, probably from fome idle people digging about it. This
ftone at the entrance is a very great one, near as big as any one of the whole
work, and ſeems too as little alter'd from its original form: only thrown down
perhaps by the like fooliſh curiofity of digging near it. Instead of Webb's four
foot broad, it's near ſeven : but to ſpeak in the Druid meaſure, four cubits. It
is at preſent above 2o foot long. If it ſtood originally, and a little leaning, it
was one of thoſe ſtones which the Welſh call crwm lechen, or bowing-ſtones.
However, Mr. Webb muſt falfify the truth very much, in making this and the
two former any thing alike in dimenſion, fituation and uſe. But he does fo,
much more in the next, which is doubtleſs a crwm leche, ſtill ſtanding in its
original posture and place in the avenue. ’Tis of much the like dimenſion as
the other, tho' not fo ſhapely, and ſtands in like manner on the left hand, or
fouth, of the middle line, of the length of the avenue. I ſurmiſe, the Dru
ids confider'd the propriety of making the other a little more ſhapely than this,
becauſe within the area, and nearer the ſacred fabric. There is the diſtance of
1 19 feet between them, to ſpeak properly, 8o cubits. . This interval Mr. Webb
contraćts to about 43 foot, and ſuppoſes there was another ftone to anſwer it on
therighthand, as alſo another to anſwer that on the infide the ditch. And he fu
poſes the like of thoſe before-mention'd, both within and without the ditch, at
his two fancy'd entrances. But of theſe, there is nec vola nec vestigium, and I
dare fay, never was. This ſtone has a hole in it, which is obſervable of like
ftones, fet thus near our like temples: as we ſhall fee in the progreſs of this
work. The ftone is of 24 foot in circumference, 16 high above ground, 9
broad, 6 thick. The uſe of it I can't certainly tell; but I am inclin'd to :
that
TA B.
XXIII.
J' 7' 0 NV E H E N G E
that as part of the religious worſhip in old patriarchal times, confisted in a fo
lemn adoration, or three filent bowings: the firſt bowing might be perform'd
at this ſtone, juſt without the ditch, the ſecond perhaps at the next ſtone, juſt
within the ditch. Then they turn'd by that ftone to the left hand, as the man
ner was, in a procefion round the temple, both the prieſts and animals for ſacri
fice. At thoſe two stones and water-vafes, probably there were fome waſhings,
luftrations, or ſprinklings with holy water, and other ceremonies, which I
don't pretend to aſcertain. Then upon the entry into the temple, perhaps
they made the third bow, as in preſence of the Deity. After this, in the court,
we may ſuppoſe the prieſts prepar'd the hecatombs and cuſtomary ſacrifices.
If that great ſtonejuſt within the ditch, always lay, as it does now, flat on the
round, and in fitu, (which I am not unwilling to believe) then, I apprehend,
it was a table for dreffing the vićtims. Ezekiel, in deſcribing the temple of
Jeruſalem, ſpeaks of ſuch in the entry, xl. 39, 40, 41, 42, 43.
'Tisjuſt to think, the ancient form of ſacrificing here, like that of the Ro
mans, Greeks or elder nations, was pretty much the fame as that among the
fews, and that as in patriarchal times; and in ſhort, no other than the origi
nal praćtice of mankind, fince the firſt inſtitution of ſacrifices, at the fall.
Thérefore we ſhall ſubjoin it from Homer's deſcription, in Iliad I. It quadrates
extremely well, in all appearance, with the place and temple before us.
Straightway in hafte, a chofen hecatomb
To God, prepar'd, the well-built altar round,
They place in order. Then their hands they waſh,
And take the falted meal. Aloud the prieſt,
With hands uplifted, for the affembly prays.
After the prayers, they wav'd the falted meal,
And then retiring flay the animals.
The ſkins being ítript, they cut off both the thighs,
And cover them with cawl; firſt offer'd crude.
The prieſt then burns a part on plates, + thereon red wine,
Libation pour'd. The miniſtring young men
Stand by him, with their five-fold ſpits in hand.
But when the thighs are burnt, out of the reſt
Entrails and fleſh, harflets and ftakes they make,
Upon the ſpits transfixt. Then roaſted well
They fet all forth. After the duty done;
A feaſt they next prepare. Plenty of food
Diſtributed around, chearful repaſt.
Banquet being o’re, the youths huge goblets crown,
And fill to all in cups. Then ſacred hymns
Sung to the Deity, conclude the day.
+ In another place he adds,
With choice cloven bits of wood,
Without leaves–
Theſe are moſt ancient rites, ſymbolical of the purity of the ſacrifice of the
M/iah, pointed at by, and deriv'd from the Moſàic diſpenſation, where every
thing of ſacred purpoſe was to be perfećt.
Thus much is ſufficient to give the reader an idea of the ancient manner of
facrificing, fuch, no doubt as was praćtis'd at this very place entirely the He
brew rite. I ſuppoſe only thepriests and chief perſonages came within the area,
who made the proceſion with the ſacrifices along the avenue. The multitude
kept without, on foot or in their chariots.
C H A P.
P.34. TAB.XVIII.
f/2.% %.%2 2///ø of 7%-72%
- -
- -
-
-
-
-
-
~
-
-
- -
*S 35,s's
Śs.
~ *s
-
t ...,
'…
t jazz£e/gy …/2.-
D E s c R I B E D. 35
C H A P. VIII.
Of the Avenue to Stonehenge.
HE Avenue of Stonehenge was never obſerv'd by any who have wrote
of it, tho’ a very elegant part of it, and very apparent. It anſwers, as
we have faid before now, to the principal line of the whole work, the north
eaſt, where abouts the fun rifes, when the days are longeſt. Plutarch in the
life of Numa fays, the ancients obſerv'd the rule of fetting their temples, with
the front to meet the rifing fun. Promachidas of Heracleum, and Dionyſius
Thrax take notice of the fame thing. And this was done in imitation of the
Moſàic tabernacle and Solomon's temple: probably a patriarchal rite. This
avenue extends itſelf, ſomewhat more than 17oo feet, in a ſtrait line, down to
the bottom of the valley, with a delicate deſcent. I obſerve the earth of the
ditches is thrown inward, and ſeemingly fome turfon both fides, thrown upon the
avenue: to raiſe it a little above the level of the downs. The two ditches con
tinue perfećtly parallel to the bottom, 4o cubits afunder. About midway, there is
a pretty depresture, natural, which diverſifies it agreeably. Stonehenge, I ſaid, is
not on the higheſt part of the hill. I found, the reaſon, why the Druids fet it
juft where it is; becauſe it is preciſely 1ooo cubits from the bottom to the en
trance of the area. When I began my inquiries into this noble work, I
thought it terminated here, and Mr. Roger Gale and myſelf meafur'd it fo far
with a chain. Another year, I found it extended itſelf much farther. For
at the bottom of the valley, it divides into two branches. The eaſtern branch
goes a long way hence, direćtly eaſt pointing to an ancient ford of the river Avon,
called Radfin, and beyond that the viſto of it bears direćtly to Harradon hill
beyond the river. The weſtern branch, from this termination at the bottom
of the hill I ooo cubits from the work at Stonehenge, as we faid, goes off with
a fimilar ſweep at firſt; but then it does not throw itſelf into a ſtrait line im
mediately, as the former, but continues curving along the bottom of the hill,
till it meets, what I call, the curfes. This likewife is a new unobſerv'd curio
fity belonging to this work, and very much enlarges the idea we ought to en
tertain, of the 'magnificence and prodigious extent of the thing. The temple
which we have been hitherto deſcribing, confiderable indeed as it really is, in
itſelf; yet now appears as a ſmall part of the whole. I ſhall therefore deſcribe
all theſe parts ſeparately, to render them more intelligible: and then ſhow
their connećtion, and what relation they have, to one another, as well as I
can. But it is not eaſy to enter at once, into the exceeding greatneſs of thought,
which theſe people had, who founded it; bringing in all the adjacent country,
the whole of nature hereabouts, to contribute its part to the work. Therefore
I ſhall diſcourſe of it backward and forward; firſt going from Stonehenge to its
termination, or more properly its beginning, and then return again. Explain
ing all the way, what is its preſent condition, and what, 'tis reaſonable to fup
poſe, was its original, when the Druids made their firſt defign. This together
with the feveral views I have drawn of it, will give us nearly as good a notion of
the whole, as we can at this day expećt, and perhaps preſerve the memory of
it hereafter, when the traces of this mighty work are obliterated with the
plough, which it is to be fear’d, will be its fate. That inſtrument gaining
ground too much, upon the ancient and innocent paſtoritial life; hereabouts,
and everywhere elſe in England: and by deſtrućtive incloſures beggars and de
populates the country.
At the bottom of the valley, and the end of the strait part of Stonehenge
avenue, Iooo cubits from Stonehenge, as we faid, the eaſtern wing of the
avenue turns off to the right, with a circular ſweep, and then in a strait
line
TA B,
XXVIII.
TA B.
XXVIII,
S 7' 0 N E H E N G E
line proceeds eaſtward up the hill. . It goes juſt between thoſe two most con
fpicuous groups of barrows, crowning the ridg of that hill eaſtward of Stone
henge; between it and Veſpastan's camp, ſeparated from them both by a deep
valley on each fide. Theſe two groups of barrows are called generally the ſeven
king's graves, each. I call that moſt northerly, the old ſeven kings graves,
for there are really 7, tho' but 6 moſt apparent; they are all fet at greater di
ítance, all broader, flatter, and as it is moſt reaſonable to fuppoſe, older than
the other. The other are fet cloſer together, of a more elegantly turn'd figure,
campaniform, and in all appearance, much later than the former. Therefore
I call theſe, being fouthwatd and direćtly between Stonehenge and the town of
Ambrg/bury, the new feven kings barrows. Of the feven old, the moſt nor
therly one and probably the oldeſt, is exceeding flat and as it were, almoſt
funk into the earth with age; ſo that it is ſcarce viſible at a diſtance. The
avenue runs up to the top of the hill, juſt between them: and they make as
it were wings to it, and I believe were defign'd as fuch, when fet there. When
the avenue firſt turns off in the valley, it is much obſcur'd by the wheels
of carriages going over it, for a great way together: for this is the road to La
vington. Nevertheleſs a curious eye, without difficulty, fees all the traces of
it ſufficiently, till it is got higher up the eaſy aſcent of the hill, and out of the
common road. Then it is very apparent and confiſts of the two little ditches
as before, (when coming direćtly from Stoilehenge) exaćtly parallel, and ſtill
4o cubits afunder. And it is made with the fame degree of variation, or about
6 degrees ſouthward from the true eaſt point. . So that it is evident again,
the Druids intended it ſhould go full eaſt, but their compaſs by which they
fet it, varied fo much at that time, according to my opinion of the matter.
To perpetuate the mark of it as much as I can: I meaſured the diſtance of it
from the ſouthern ditch thereof, to the ditch of the neareſt i. e. moſt nor
therly of the new 7 kings barrows, and when in the right line ofthoſe 7 barrows:
itis 257 feet. I know not whether there wasany deſign in it, but it is exaćtly
15o cubits. From the northern ditch of the avenue here, to the neareſt of the
old ſeven kings barrows, is 35o foot; which is exaćtly 2oo cubits.
Whilſt we are here upon the elevation of this hill, between theſe two groups
of barrows, 'tis 27oo feet from the beginning of this wing of the avenue at
the bottom of the valley, where it commences. It ſtill continues in the ver
fame direction eaſtward, till unfortunately broke off by the plow'd ground,
3oo feet from hence. This plow'd ground continues for a mile together, as
far as the river's fide at Amber/bury. So that 'tis impoſſible to trace it any far
ther. The firſt plow'd field, that fouthward, is Mr. Hayward's; the other is
of a different eſtate, call'd Counte/i-farm. And the plowing of theſe two go
on at right angles one of another. That piece on the north fide of the avenue,
of the latter tenure, goes along the line of the avenue, is long and narrow, and
has (as uſual with greedy farmers) encroach'd upon and fwallow'd up fo much
of the length of the avenue. And that amounts to 75o feet more in length,
which muſt certainly be added to the avenue. This is all along the eastern
declivity of the hill we are upon, that of the twice feven kings graves, and
reaches near the bottom of the valley, between it and the hill whereon ſtands
Veſpastan's camp. , Now reaſon and thejudgment I have got in converfing with
works of this kind, tell me, the founders would never begin this avenue at the
bottom of a valley, but rather on a conſpicuous height, which is viſible from a
great distance of country round. We muſt ſuppoſe the intent of the avenue
was to direćt the religious proceſſion to the temple; and that at the beginning
of it, they made fires early in the morning of that day, when they held their
grand feſtivals, to give notice to all the country. Therefore when we
croſs this valley still eaſtward, with the former direćtion of the compaſs, and
mount that next hill, whereon ſtands Veſpastan's camp: we find exactly fuch
a place as we could wiſh, and extremely ſuitable to that purpoſe. For it com
TA B.
XXVI.
TA B.
XXIV.
TA B.
XXVII.
mands
-ss
*\,.
un,
-
-|
".
%
>s:~-sS.
-
-
-
D E S C R I B E D. 37
mands a very extenfive proſpećt both upwards and downwards of the river,
and on the other fide of it, for many miles; all about that part of the country
where it is highly reaſonable to think the old Britons liv'd, who frequented
this temple. This eminence is north of Veſpastan's camp, north-weſt from
Ambreſbury church. Here is a very large ſcene of the country taken in. It
has a fine gentle rife for half a mile and more, even quite from the ford at
Radfin. You ſee the moſt delightful river Avon flank'd with villages on both
fides, from almoſt as far as new Sarum, and then to the head of it, 5 miles
off. It was the cuſtom of the Druids to give notice, by fires, of the quarterly
days of ſacrifice. Thus the Druids in Ireland before chriſtianity, us'd to kin
dle a fire call'd in their language Tlachdgha, on Allfaints eve, to perform a
general ſacrifice: as Mr. Llwyd mentions in his Iriſh dićtionary. Mr. Toland
fpeaks of others too. I obſerv'd there has been a bank acroſs the bottom of the
valley, for the more eaſy paſſage of the religious ceremony, and this much
corroborates my conjećture of the avenue reaching hither.
Plate XXIV. explains all that I have laſt faid about this avenue, and ſhews
its direćtion to Haradon Hill, on the other fide the river.
I am apt to believe from the conformity I have obſerv'd in theſe works,
that there was a facellum or little temple here upon this hill, where the
avenue began. We ſuppoſe this might eaſily be deſtroy'd when they began to
plow here, being fo near the town. I have found feveral of theſe kind of large
ftones, either travelling to Stonehenge, or from it. One as big as any at Stone
henge, lies about 3 miles off northward, in Durington fields. Another in the
water at Milford, another at Fighelden; they feem to have been carried back
to make bridges, mildams or the like, in the river. There is another in the
London road, eaſt from Ambre/bury, about a mile from the town. Another
in the water at Bulford. A ftone ſtands leaning at Preſhute farm near the
church, as big as thoſe at Stonehenge. What confirms me in the conjećture
that there was a facellum here originally, is, that an innumerable company of
barrows on the oppoſite hill, on the other fide of the river coming down Hara
don, and in the line of the avenue ſeem to regard it; as is uſual in theſe works.
For thoſe barrows are not in fight of Stonehenge itſelf, by reaſon of the inter
poſition of the hill whereon ſtand the double groups of ſeven king's graves.
And even thoſe two groups ſeem to regard this little temple as well as the great
one, curving that way. The diſtance from hence to Stonehenge is 4.ooo cu
bits.
In order to have a juſt notion of this avenue, it is neceſſary to go to the neigh
bouring height of Haradon hill, on the other fide the river. The largeſt bar
row there, which I call Hara's and which probably gave name to the hill, is in
the line of the avenue; the ford of Radfin lying between, as we fee in the laſt
Plate. I ſtood upon this hill May 11. 1724. during the total eclipſe of the
fun, of which I gave an account in my Itinerarium. Here is a moſt noble
view of the work and country about Stonehenge. Whoever is upon the ſpot
cannot fail of a great pleaſure in it; eſpecially if the fun be low, either after
rifing or before fetting. For by that means the barrows, the only ornaments of
theſe plains, become very viſible, the ground beyond them being illuminated
by the funs flaunting rays. You fee as far as Clay-hill beyond Warminster 2o
miles off You fee the ſpot of ground on the hill, whereon ſtands Veſpastan's
camp, where Iconjećture the avenue to Stonehenge began, and where there was
a/acellum, as we conceive. From hence to that ſpot a valley leads very com
modiouſly to Radfin, where the original ford was.
This Radfin-farm ſeems to retain its Celtic name: meaning a ford or paſſage
for chariots, the old way of carriage here uſed. Rhedeg currere, rhedegfain
curfitare, in Iriſh reathaim. Fin in the old Iriſh, is white. It regards the
chalky road which went up from the ford. "Tis a pretty place, feated in a
flexure of the river, which from hence ſeems to bend its arms both ways, to
L embrace
TA B.
XXIV.
TA B.
XXIV.
TA B.
XXVI.
38 J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
TAB. XXV.
TA B.
XXVI.
XXVII.
TA B.
XXIV.
XXVIII.
embrace the beginning of the avenue. The place is very warm, ſhelter'd from
all winds, and eſpecially from the north. I am perſuaded it was originally a
feat ofan Archdruid or Druid. See Mr. Toland diſcourſing of the Druids hou
fes, p. 1 I 1. The nuns of Ambre/bury too had a chapel there. The ford is
now quite difus'd, becauſe of the bridge by the town's end; and the road of it
is foreclos'd by hedgerows of paſtures on both fides the lane, leading north
wards from Ambr/bury to north Wiltſhire. This road lying between Radin
and the beginning of Stonehenge avenue, is ſweetly adorn'd with viorna. We
are ſuppoſed now to ſtand on the tumulus of Hara, an old Iriſh royal name,
and poſſibly the king who was coadjutor in founding Stonehenge, who lived, it's
likely, in the eaſtern part of Wiltſhire : for which reaſon they direćted the
avenue this way.
Et nunc fervat honos fedem, tuus, cffaque nomen.
Here are very many barrows upon this fide of the hill, all looking toward the
facred work. Hence we furvey Ambro/bury, Veſpaſian's camp, and Stonehenge,
the cur/its, and little Ambre/bury. Likewife a very ancient barrow which an
fwers to that of Weljastan's camp, ſeeming to be plac'd here with fome regulari
ty and regard to the facellum at the beginning of the avenue. This is a long
barrow, which I ſuppoſe the Archdruids who liv'd at Radfin, and perhaps the
chief perſon concern'd in projećting the magnificent work. The reader muſt
indulge me the liberty of theſe kind of conjećtures; there is no evidence pofi
tive left in fuch matters of great antiquity. I have ſome little reafon for it,
which I ſhall mention when we ſpeak of the barrows. There is this preſent
uſe, to afix thereby names to things, that we may talk more intelligibly about
them.
We are next to advance down Haradon-hill in the fame direćtion, nearer
Radfin, from whence I drew Plate XXV. This valley leads us very gently to
the river.
Qga fe fibducere colles
Incipiunt, mollique jugum demittere clivo
U/ậue ad aquam. Virg.
This and the two views in Plate XXVI. give us a good notion of the country
on this fide. There are feven barrows together, in the road from Ambre/bury
to Radfin, one great one and fix little ones, which regard the facellum, but
cannot poſibly to Stonehenge. This was a family burying-place probably of
fome confiderable perſonage, who liv'd at Ambre/bury. Theſe plates ſhow us
too, the avenue marching up the next hill, where the old and new feven kings
barrows receive it again, as wings to it. This is ſhown more diſtinćt in the
next plate, TAB. XXVII. where the corn ground has began to encroach upon
it. I could ſcarce forbear the wiſh,
Pereat labor irritus anni.
When you are gone a little farther toward Stonehenge, and arriv'd at the top of
the hill, if you turn back you have the view preſented to you like that TA B.
XXIV. beyond A the beginning of the avenue, is Radfin, beyond that Hara
don. The proſpećt forward, toward Stonehenge, is ſhown TAB. XXVIII.
There you fee the union of the two wings of the avenue, at the commence
ment of the ſtrait part of it C. Again, you may obſerve the nature ofthe weſt
wing of the avenue, going with a continued curve round the bottom of the
hill, till it enters the Hippodrom or curſus. At a distance you fee Yan/bury
camp, thought to be another of Veſpastan's. Next you deſcend into the val
ley to the union of the wings of the avenue, and aſcend the agreeable part
of
-
|
"
|
"
A
|
||.
|o
%
-
%--
%
%
*
$s
t--
.
-
:
!”
-
|
%
-
-
§s#
|
|
|
>
|s
|
s
n
,
-
*
*t
//Żz zzzzzzz, Z/.
D E s c R I B E D. 39
of it, to the temple. Along here went the ſacred pomp. How would it de
light one to have feen it in its firſt ſplendor!
am nunc folennes ducere pompas
Ad delubra juvat, ca/0/ậue videre juvencos. Virg.
I have often admir’d the delicacy of this aſcent to the temple. As foon as
you mount from the bottom, 'tis level for a great way together : and the whole
length of it is a kind of ridge, for it flopes off both ways from it on each fide ;
fo that the rain runs off every way. Juſt about half way there is a depreſſure,
as a pauſe or foot pace, ſhowing one half of the avenue aſcending, the other
deſcending, both magnificent, in the ancient guſto. There was a temple of
fupiter Labradeus near Mylafa a city of Caria, much frequented. The
way leading thither was called ſacred, and pav'd 6o furlongs, thro' which
their procefion went. Philostratus ſays, you went to the temple of Diana at
Epheſus, by a ſtone portico of a stadium. Pau/anias in Phocicis ſays, the
avenue to the temple of Minerva Cranea near Elatea is aſcending, but ſo gent
ly that it is imperceptible. Again in Chap. X. we read of a pav'd way, to
the oracle at Delphos. But the natural pavement of our avenue is much finer.
I take notice, that fupiter Labradæus was a ſtatue holding a halbard in his
hand, which inſtrument like afecuris or amazonian ax, was as a ſcepter to the
Lydian kings. And apparently our Engliſh halbard is the very word, with
an aſperate way of pronunciation prefix'd, Labrada. So our Druids carried
about a ſharp braſs inſtrument which we often find, call'd a celt, (I know not
whence) with which they us'd to cut the Mi/letoe, at their great feſtival in mid
winter. I have repreſented one hanging at our Druids girdle, in TA B. I. it TA B. I.
was to be put into the flit at the end of his ſtaff, when uſed. But of this here
after. Now with the Poet in his celebrated Ode
–Quibus
Mos unde dedučius per omne
Tempus, Amazonia fecuri
Dextras obarmet, quærere distuli:
Nec ſcire fas est omnia Horat.
being arriv'd again at Stonehenge, from the laſt print, TAB. XXVIII. though TA a.
fmall, we may fee the beauty of the curve in the outer circle of that work, XXVIII.
eſpecially from the avenue, when the eye is below it. We obſerve the fame
in the grand font view. TA B. V. TA B. V.
And now we are return'd to the ſacred fabric, we will diſcourſe a little upon
theſe temples in general, and fo conclude this chapter.
In Macrob. Saturn. I. 18. mention is made of a famous round temple in
Thrace, where they celebrate moſt magnificent religious rites. It is upon the
hill Zilmiffus. The temple is open at top. I ſuppoſe like ours, not a little
round hole like as in the Pantheon, nor is it a ſmall round facellum like thoſe
little round temples at Rome to Romulus, to Vesta, &c. It is not reaſonable to
think they ſhould build a Pantheon in Thrace, nor can I underſtand it otherwiſe,
than that, it was like our Stonehenge, and in truth an ancient patriarchal
ftructure of a primitive model. The Deity here worſhipp’d was call'd Saba
zius ſays he, ſome make him fupiter, fome the fun, ſome Bacchus. Theſe
are the firſt perverſions of the řehovah of the řews. In my Judgment, the
name Sabazius is a corruption of the Hebrew name of God nisax ſabaoth,
Deus exercituum, a title that would well fuit the warlike Thracians. In time
Idolatry debaſed every thing. When they perform’d the religious rites of
Bacchus, they cried Evohe, Sabbai, and call'd him Evius, Evan, Sabazius, &c.
Evoke is a corrupt manner of pronouncing mrin fehovah, and this facred cry is
truly
S 7' 0 N E H E N G E
|
truly no other than what frequently occurs in holy ſcripture. nisar mm yd
vah Sabaoth. He is the king of glory, Pſalm xxiv. 1o. But I have diſcourſed
on this head in my Paleographia Sacra Nº I. which will be continued.
Diodorus Siculus in his Book II. mentions a very eminent temple of a round
form, among the Hyperboreans, as he calls them, who inhabit an iſland fitu
ate in the ocean over-againſt Gaul, which is not leſs than Sicily. He gives an
odd account from thence mix'd with fable, and ſeemingly fome reports of Stone
henge itſelf.
Mr. Toland is confident, this hyperborean region is our Schetland iſles,
whence Abaris the Druid and hyperborean philoſopher, famous in Grecian ſtory.
Whilſt I am writing this, March 6. 1739-4o. we had an account read before
the Royal Society, much confirming Mr. Toland's notion ; ſpeaking of the ad
mirable temperature of the air there, not ſubjećt to ſuch extremities, ſuch fud
den changes, as even in Britain itſelf . There are ſuch templesas ours there.
Arnobius in VI. ſpeaking of the origin of temples, “We don't, ſays he,
*** make temples to the Gods, as if we deſign'd to ſhelter them from the rain,
“ the wind, the fun : but that we may therein preſent ourſelves before them,
: “ and by our prayers, after a fort, ſpeak to them as if preſent.” We may well
affirm this of our temple, built after the manner of the patriarchal ones, tho'
'probably an improvement, and ſomewhat more magnificent. Ours confists of
two ovals and two circles. Many in our iſland, which I ſuppoſe older than
Stonehenge, confiſt of one oval, or niche-like figure made of three ftones only,
(of which our adytum is a more magnificent ſpecimen) and a circle of rude .
ftones fix'd in the ground; of which our work, crown'd with a circular cor-
niſh, is a more magnificent fpecimen. Sometime I meet with a niche without
a circle, ſometime a circle without a niche. We may well fay, the circle is
analogous to our chapels, churches, or cathedrals, according to their different
magnitude ; the niches correſpond to our choirs, altars, and more ſacred part
of the ſacred building, the more immediate place of the reſidence of the Deity. .
They are what now theTurks and Arabians call the kebla, deriv'd, as we faid
before, from the patriarchal praćtice, and particularly from the great patriarch
Abraham. I doubt not but the altars which he and his poſterity made, men
tion'd in ſcripture, were a ftone upon the ground before three fet in a niche
like figure, and the whole inclos'din a circle of stones. At other times they fet
only one stone for a kebla,as fometime our anceſtors did likewiſe. This practice
waspropagated generally among all ancientnations. Among many it was forgot
ten, or not praćtiſed, where they had but little religion at all. Among others,
after idolatry had prevail'd with them, they thought all former manners of
worſhip like their own, and miſtook the ftones which were kebla's or places of
worſhip, for the objects of worſhip. Hençe Maximus of Tyre fays, the Ara
bians worſhipp'd he knew not what, for he ſaw only a great ftone. Which,
no doubt, was the kebla toward which they direćted their devotion, as they
had learnt from Abraham, or the like patriarchal anceſtors. So Pau/anias in
Achaicis ſays, the ancient Greeks worſhipp'd unhewn ſtones inſtead of statues;
more particularly among the Pharii, near the statue of Mercury, were 3o
fquare stones, which they worſhipp'd. If our author could not make his nar
ration agreeable to common fenfe, he might well miſtake this ancient patriar
chal temple, ſomewhat like ours of Stonehenge, for a circle of deities: he
himſelf being a stranger to any other than image-worſhip. I ſhall handle this
matter more largely hereafter, and now let us deſcend again from the temple to
the curſus. Only I would cloſe this chapter with this ſhort reflection. This
avenue is proof enough (if there needed any) that our work is a temple, not
a monument, as ſome writers would have it. But it requires no formal confu
tation. - -
C H A P.
--
4Z
A
-
-
-
|
:
·
|
|F2.#|}
•
-|
-
D E S C R I B E D. 4. I
C H A P. IX.
Of the Curſus. Games exercis'd on holy festivals. The Druids
understood geometry.
BOUT half a mile north of Stonehenge, acroſs the firſt valley, is the
curſus or hippodrom, which I diſcover'd august 6. 1723. "Tis a noble
monument of antiquity: and illuſtrates very much the preceding account of
Stonehenge. It was the univerſal cuſtom, to celebrate games, feaſts, exercifes
and ſports, at their more publick and folemn meetings to ſacrifice. Which was
done quarterly and anniverſarily, at certain ſtated ſeaſons of the year. Macrob.
Satur. I. fays, “ Upon holy days dedicated to the gods, there are ſacrifices,
“ feaſts, games and feſtivals. For a ſacred folemnity is, when ſacrifices are
“ offer’d to the gods, or holy feaſtings celebrated, or games perform’d to their
“ honour, or when holy days are obſerv'd.” This great work is included be
tween two ditches running eaſt and weſt in a parallel, which are 35o foot aſun
der. When I mention 35o foot, I ſpeak in the grofs, and as we ſhould fet it
down in an Engliſh ſcale: but if we look into Plate VI. where I have given a TAB. VI.
comparative view of our Engliſh foot, and the moſt ancient cubit ; at firſt fight
we difcern, this meaſure means 2oo of the Druid cubits. This curſiis is a lit
tle above 1oooo foot long: that is, it is made of 6ooo Druid cubits in length.
A moſt noble work, contriv'd to reach from the higheſt ground of two hills,
extended the intermediate diſtance over a gentle valley: fo that the whole cur
fas lies conveniently under the eye of the moſt numerous quantity of ſpecta
tors. To render this more convenient for fight, it is projećted on the fide of
rifing ground, chiefly looking fouthward toward Stonehenge. A delightful
} from the temple, when this vaſt plain was crouded with chariots,
orfemen and foot, attending theſe folemnities, with innumerable multitudes!
This curſus, which is two miles long, has two entrances (as it were :) gaps
being left in the two little ditches. And theſe gaps, which are oppoſite to each
other, in the two ditches, are oppoſite to the ſtrait part of Stonehenge ave
IlU16.
I mention'd before, that at the bottom of the ſtrait part of Stonehenge ave
nue, in the valley, the avenue divides itſelf into two parts. One goes direćt
ly eaſt toward Radfin, the other goes northweſtward, and enters our curſus nearly
at the ſame diſtance weſt from the gaps or entrances before-mention'd: as thoſe
gaps are from the eaſt end of the hippodrom. , Theſe gaps being at a conveni
ent diſtance from that eaſt end, may be thought to be in the nature of distance
poſts. It ſeems to me, that the turf of the adjacent ground on both fides, has
been originally taken off, and laid on the whole length of this curſus, becauſe
it appears fomewhat higher in level. Tho' this was an incredible labour, yet a
fine defign for the purpoſe of running. The earth of the vallum is likewiſe
thrown inward.
The eaſt end of the curſus is compos'd of a huge body of earth, a bank or
long barrow, thrown up nearly the whole breadth of the curſus. This ſeems
to be the plain of festion, for thejudges of the prizes, and chief of the ſpećta
tors. The weſt end of the curſus is curv'd into an arch, like the end of the
Roman circus's. And there probably the chariots ran round, in order to turn
again. And there is an obſcure barrow or two, round which they return'd, as
it were, a meta.
This is the fineſt piece of ground that can be imagin'd for the purpoſe of a
horſe-race. The whole is commanded by the eye of a ſpectator in any part.
In the middle is a valley, and pretty ſteep at preſent: yet only fo, as that a
M Britiſh
TA B.
XXVIII.
TA B,
XXIX.
42. J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
TA B.
XXIX.
TA B.
XXVIII.
TA B.
XXX.
Britiſh charioteer may have a good opportunity of ſhowing that dexterity,
fpoken of by Ceſar. But the exquiſite foftneſs of the turf prevents any great
damage by a fall. The ground of it hereabouts declines ſomewhat north
ward. The main part of this hippodrom is upon a gentle ridge running east
and weſt. This render'd the place cooler.
On the ſouthern ridge, toward the weſt end of it, are many confiderable
barrows: but none towards the eaſt end, for that would obſtrućt the view of
Stonehenge. There are many barrows but of no confiderable bulk, on the
north-fide, upon the extenfive aſcent, toward the great north long barrow.
This magnificent work of the curſiis is drawn due eaſt and weſt: except a
fmall variation of 4 or 5 degrees ſouthward from the eaſt. If we meaſure
along the bank, from the eaſtern meta, at 7oo cubits exaćtly, we come over
againſt the middle line of the ſtrait part of the avenue to Stonehenge: 5oo cu
bits further condućts us to the gaps or oppofite entrances, I before mention'd;
which we ſuppoſe as diſtance poſts. The whole interval between the eaſtern
meta and theſe gaps, is 12oo cubits. At 1ooo cubits more, we come to the
place where the weſt wing of the avenue enters the ſouthern ditch of the cur
fils. That weſt wing too, isjuſt 1ooo cubits long to its union, with the ſtrait
part of Stonehenge avenue. Likewife the strait part of Stonehenge avenue is juſt
Iooo cubits long, as mention'd in its proper place. This weſt wing begins,
in the bottom of that valley, which croffes the middle of thecurſus and ſweep
ing along by the bottom of the hill, in a gentle curve, meets with the lower
end of the strait part of Stonehenge avenue, where the wing or avenue unites
to it, with an equal angle. So that the whole work is laid out with great
judgment and ſymmetry; and curiouſly adapted to the ground, which was
well confider'd, before the plot was mark'd out, by the firſt furveyors. From
the bottom of the valley croffing the middle of the curſiis, to the weſtern meta
is 38oo cubits more, making in the whole 6ooo cubits. The north end of
the eaſtern meta does not extend ſo far as the northern bank of the curſus: I
fuppoſe, the reaſon is, that there might be liberty that way, to ſtop the horfes,
at the end of the courſe. Therefore they fet out, on the fouth fide of the cur
füs and return’d by the north fide. I obſerve the ditch and bank towards the
eaſtern end of the curſus much obſcur'd, by the trampling of men and horfes,
frequenting the ſpećtacles here: this being the moſt throng'd.
The Curſus is direćtly north from Stonehenge: fo exaćtly, that the meridian
line of Stonehenge paffes preciſely thro' the middle of the Curfüs. And when
we ſtand in the grand entrance of Stonehenge and obſerve the two extremities of
the Curſus the eaſtern and weſtern meta, they are each exaćtly 6o degrees from
the meridian line; on each hand: making a third part of the circle of the ho
rizon. By which we fee, the Druids well underſtood the geometry of a circle,
and its meaſure of 36o parts.
Pauſànias in Beotic. fays, º among the Thebans, by the gate Prætis is the
* Gymnaſium of folaus and likewiſe the stadium, which is a bank of earth
* thrown up, ſuch as that at Olympia and of the Laurii. In the ſame place is
‘ the heroical monument of folaus. A little beyond, to the right is the hippo
* drom, and in it Pindar's monument. The fame author in Arcad. VIII. writes,
* that before the walls of Mantinea, in a field, was a stadium made for horſe
* races, in honour of Antinous. Not far from it was the temple of Neptunus
* equestris and others. So that we fee it was the manner of the ancient Greeks
thus to define their places for ſports by banks of earth, and that near their temples.
After the Romans had borrow'd the uſe of the Britiſh chariots for travelling
and the like, they us'd them too in the Circenstan games. Thus Sidonius Apol
linaris his poem upon it, Lib. XXII.
Instant verberibus ſimul regentes,
famque & pečiora prona de covinno
Extenst rapiuntur.
Again,
W
h
}
%
.
-
|
/
'
''
l
%
1,
%
.£
)
N
|
%
''*
\
|
s
s
^
/\
/|\
|
-
|
|
-
-
|
-
-
–
|--
-|----|
--
---–
--|--
-
-
|---
-–
|
|-
-
-=
-
=
--
|
D E s c R I B E D. 43
Again,
Tunc cætus juvenum fed aulicorum
Elæi /imulachra torva Carapi
Exercent, ſpatiantibus quadrigis.
tandem murmura buccinæ strepentis
Sufþen/as tubicen vocans quadrigas,
Effundit celeres in arva currus.
Hinc agger Jonat, hinc Arar reſultat,
Hinc /é/è pedes atque eques reflečtit,
Stridentum & moderator effedorum. v
Such, we may well imagine, was the ſcene of this place, in ancient days.
And as the poet mentions the river Arar, I may take notice, in pasting, that
I have feen, feveral other places of ſports and racings, which I take to have
belong'd to the ancient Britons. As particularly thoſe two great banks call'd
Rawdikes in the meadow near Leicester, which ſpeċtators look on as unac
countable. Another fuch work, I have feen in the meadow by Dorchester,
the ancient Roman city and epiſcopal fee, in Oxfordſhire. Both are by the fide
of rivers. Another upon the river Lowther by Perith in Cumberland.
Theſe places by rivers, were more agreeable to the Greek taſte, as in a hot
ter country. Another like place of ſports, was in the chalky valley juſt with
out the town of Royston, on the ſouth fide of it, by the London road. The
old Roman road there, or Hernien-street paſies over one corner of the work,
as being of later date. I may, perhaps, deſcribe theſe more largely, another
time. We read in Homer and Virgil that races were celebrated at funerals.
C H A P. X.
Of the barrows, or ſepulchral tumuli about Stonehenge. Gene
rally fet in groups, which are family burial places; and in fight
of Stonehenge. They are ſingle burial places. How the body
is poſited. What has been found in digging into theſe bar
7°07ØJ.
bers, round Stonehenge. We may very readily count fifty at a time, in fight,
from the place; eaſily diſtinguiſhable: but eſpecially in the evening, when
the floping rays of the fun fhine on the ground beyond them. Theſe barrows
are the artificial ornaments of this vaſt and open plain. And it is no ſmall en
tertainment for a curious perſon, to remark their beauties, their variety in form
and magnitude, their fituation. They are generally of a very elegant campa
niform ſhape, and done with great nicety. There is likewiſe a great variety in
their ſhape, and turn, and in their diameters, in their manner of compoſition.
In general, they are always upon elevated ground, and in fight of the tem
ple of Stonehenge. For they all regard it. This fhews, they are but ſuperficial
infpećtors of things, that fancy from hence, great battels on the plain; and
that theſe are the tumultuary burials of the flain. Quite otherwiſe; they are
affuredly, the fingle ſepulchres of kings, and great perſonages, buried during
a confiderable ſpace of time, and that in peace. There are many groups of
them together, and as family burial places; the varietyin them, ſeems to indi
CatC
H COME in the last place to ſpeak of the barrows, obſervable in great num
s 7 0 N E H E N G E
TA B.
XXIV.
TA B.
XXXIII.
TA B. IX.
TA B.
XXXII.
cate fome note of difference in the perſons there interr’d, well known in thoſe
ages. Probably the prieſts and laity were ſomeway diſtinguiſh'd; as well as
different orders and ſtations in them. Moſt of the barrows have little ditches
around, extremely well defin'd. In many is a circular ditch 6o cubits in dia
meter, with a very ſmall tumulus in the center. 6o or even 1oo cubits is
a very common diameter in the large barrows. Often, they are fet in rows,
and equidiſtant, ſo as to produce a regular and pretty appearance, and with fome
particular regard to the parts of the temple, the avenues, or the curſis.
For inſtance, where the avenue begins at the firſt elevation, from Radfin ford,
advancing towards Stonehenge, ſeven large and flat old barrows are on the right
hand of the avenue, towards the eaſt end of the curſus, ſeven large barrows
of a newer ſhape, are on the left hand: both theſe groups before ſpoken of,
are plac'd in a fimilar manner, in regard to the avenue, and as wings or
openings to it. Upon every range of hills, quite round Stonehenge, are ſucceſ
five groups of barrows, for fome miles: and we may even obſerve, that great
barrow by Lord Pembroke's park at Wilton, which I call the tomb of Carvilius,
is fet within view of Stonehenge.
In 1722, my late Lord Pembroke, Earl Thomas, who was pleas'd to favour
my inquries at this place, open'd a barrow, in order to find the poſition of the
body obſerv'd in theſe early days. He pitch'd upon one of thoſe ſouth of
Stonehenge, cloſe upon the road thither from Wilton: and on the eaſt fide of
the road. "Tis one of the double barrows, or where two are inclos'd in one
ditch : one of thoſe, which I ſuppoſe the later kind, and of a fine turn'd bell
faſhion. It may be feen in Plate IX. On the weſt fide, he made a fećtion
from the top to the bottom, an intire ſegment, from center to circumference.
The manner of compoſition of the barrow was good earth, quite thro', except
a coat of chalk of about two foot thickneſs, covering it quite over, under the
turf. Hence it appears, that the method of making theſe barrows was to dig
up the turf for a great ſpace round, till the barrow was brought to its intended
bulk. Then with the chalk, dug out of the environing ditch, they powder'd
it all over. So that for a confiderable time, theſe barrows muſt have look'd
white : even for fome number of years. And the notion of fan&tity annex'd
to them, forbid people trampling on them, till perfećtly fettled and turf’d over.
Hence the neatneſs of their form to this day. At the top or center of this
barrow, not above three foot under the ſurface, my Lord found the ſkeleton
of the interr’d; perfećt, of a reaſonable fize, the head lying toward Stonehenge,
or northward. -
The year following, in order to proſecute this inquiry, by my Lord's order,
I begun upon a barrow north of Stonehenge, in that group ſouth of the curſus.
'Tis one of the double barrows there: and the more eaſterly, and lower of the
two: likewiſe ſomewhat leſs. It was reaſonable to believe, this was the ſepul
ture of a man and his wife: and that the leffer was the female: and ſo it
prov'd, at leaſt a daughter. We made a large cut on the top from eaſt to
weſt. After the turf taken off, we came to the layer of chalk, as before, then
fine garden mould. About three foot below the ſurface, a layer of flints, hu
mouring the convexity of the barrow. Theſe flints are gather'd from the fur
face of the downs in fome places, eſpecially where it has been plow'd. This
being about a foot thick, reſted on a layer of ſoft mould anothe, foot: in which
was inclos'd an urn full of bones. This urn was of unbak'd y, of a dark
reddiſh colour: crumbled into pieces. It had been rudely wrot t with ſmall
mouldings round the verge, and other circular channels on the us tfide, with
feveral indentures between, made with a pointed tool, as depićted in Plate
XXXII. where I have drawn all the forts of things found in this barrow. The
bones had been burnt, and crouded all together in a little heap, not fo much
as a hat crown would contain. The collar bone, and one fide of the under
jaw are grav'd in their true magnitude. It appears to have been a girl of about
I 4
--. .
Pzz. TARxxIII
-
* ,
-
* ,
3 |
- -
«
. |- 2 `s
---- ~ -
----
A
23–
/
- - -
- * ~
~ ~ ~
~
-
*
*
~
*.
§ =
/
*
È = | § . . 2 %
# i IIIIIIImº,
S o
Ë
Š -----
= * | §
~
| *=s
~
The Area of
STONE HENGE
3o È= /C2O
š=
í
D E s C R I B E D. 45
14 years old, by their bulk and the great quantity óf female ornaments mix'd
with the bones, all which we gather'd. Beads of all forts, and in great num
ber, of glaſs of divers colours, moſt yellow, one black. Many ſingle, many
in long pieces notch'd between, ſo as to reſemble a ſtring of beads, and theſe
were generally of a blue colour. There were many of amber, of all fhapes
and fizes, flat fquares, long ſquares, round, oblong, little and great. Like
wife many of earth, of different ſhapes, magnitude and colour, ſome little and
white, many large and fattiſh like a button, others like a pully. But all had
holes to run a ſtring thro', either thro' their diameter, or fides. Many of the
button fort ſeem to have been cover'd with metal, there being a rim work'd in
them, wherein to turn the edge of the covering. One of theſe was cover'd
with a thin film of pure gold. Theſe were the young lady's ornaments. And
had all undergone the fire: ſo that what would eaſily conſume fell to pieces as
foon as handled. Much of the amber burnt half thro'. This perſon was a
heroin, for we found the head of herjavelin in braſs. At bottom are two holes
for the pins that faſtned it to the ſtaff . Befides, there was a ſharp bodkin,
round at one end, fquare at the other, where it went into a handle. I ſtill
preſerve whatever is permanent of theſe trinkets. But we recompos'd the aſhes
of the illuſtrious defunct, and cover'd them with earth. Leaving viſible marks
at top, of the barrow having been open'd, to diffuade any other from again
diſturbing them: and this was our praćtice in all the reſt.
Then we op'd the next barrow to it, inclos'd in the fame ditch, which we
fuppos'd the huſband or father of this lady. At fourteen inches deep, the
mould being mix'd with chalk, we came to the intire ſkeleton of a man.
The ſkull and all the bones exceedingly rotten and periſh'd, thro' length of
time. Tho' this was a barrow of the lateſt fort, as we conjećture. The body
lay north and ſouth, the head to the north, as that Lord Pembroke open'd.
Next, I went weſtward, to a group of barrows whence Stonehenge bears eaſt
north-eaſt. Here is a large barrow ditch'd about, but of an ancient make. On
that fide next Stonehenge are ten leffer, ſmall, and as it were crouded together.
South of the great one is another barrow, larger than thoſe of the group, but
not equalling the firſt. It would feem, that a man and his wife were bury'd
in the two larger, and that the reſt were of their children or dependants. One
of the ſmall ones, 2o cubits in diameter, I cut thro', with a pit nine foot in
diameter, to the furface of the natural chalk, in the center of the barrow ;
where was a little hole cut. A child's body (as it ſeems) had been burnt here,
and cover'd up in that hole: but thro' the length of time confum'd. From
three foot deep, we found much wood afhes ſoft and black as ink, fome little
bits of an urn, and black and red earth very rotten. Some ſmall lumps of
earth red as vermilion : fome flints burnt thro'. Toward the bottom a great
quantity of aſhes and burnt bones , From this place I could count 128 bar
rows in fight. See a vaſt multiplicity of 'em, TAB. XXXI. -
Going from hence more ſoutherly, there is a circular diſh-like cavity dug in
the chalk, 6o cubits in diameter, like a barrow revers'd. ’Tis near a great bar
row, the leaſt of the ſouth-weſtern group, ’Tis between it, and what I call
the buſhbarrow, fet with thorn-trees, TA B. XXXII. This cavity is ſeven feet
deep in the middle, extremely well turn'd, and out of it, no doubt, the adja
cent barrow is dug, The uſe of it ſeems to have been a place for ſacrificing and
feasting in memory of the dead, as was the ancient cuſtom. ’Tis all overgrown
with that pretty ſhrub erica vulgaris, now in flower, and ſmelling like honey.
We made a large croſs fećtion in its center upon the cardinal points; we found
nothing but a bit of red earthen pot.
We dug up one of thoſe I call Druid's barrows, a ſmall tump inclos'd in a
large circular ditch. I choſe that next to buſhbarrow, weſtward ofit. , Stone
benge bears hence north-eaſt. We made a croſs fećtion ten foot each way,
three foot broad over its center, upon the cardinal points, At length we found
N - a fquariſh
TA B.
XXXI.
TA B.
xxxii.
46 J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
a fquariſh hole cut into the ſolid chalk, in the center of the tumulus. It was
three foot and a half, i. e. two cubits long, and near two foot broad, i. e. one
cubit: pointing to Stonehenge directly: It was a cubit and half deep from the
furface. This was the domus exilis Plutonia cover'd with artificial earth, not
above a foot thick from the furface. In this little grave we found all the burnt
bones of a man, but no figns of an urn. The bank of the circular ditch is on
the outfide, and is 12 cubits broad. The ditch is 6 cubits broad (the Druid's
ftaff) the area is 7o cubits in diameter. The whole Ioo. -
I open'd another of theſe of like dimenſions, next to that Lord Pembroke fir
open'd, ſouth of Stonehenge. We found a burnt body in a hole in the chalk,
as before. Mr. Roger Gale was with me.
In ſome other barrows I open'd, were found large burnt bones of horfes and
dogs, along with human. Alſo of other animals as ſeem'd; of fowl, hares,
boars, deer, goats, or the like. And in a great and very fiat old faſhion'd bar
row, weſt from Stonehenge, among fuch matters, I found bits of red and blue
marble, chippings of the ftones of the temple. So that probably the interr’d
was one of the builders. Homer tells us of Achilles flaying horſes and dogs, at
the funeral of his friend Patroclus.
Lord Pembroke told me of a braſs fword dug up in a barrow here, which was
fent to Oxford. In that very old barrow near little Amber/bury, was found a
very large braſs weapon of 2o pounds weight, like a pole-ax. Said to be given
to col. Wyndham. In the great long barrow fartheft north from Stonehenge, which .
I call north long barrow, and ſuppofd to be an Archdruid's, was found one
of thoſe braſs inſtruments call'd celts, which I hold to belong to the Druids,
wherewith they cut off the miſletoe, as before mention'd. Mr. Stallard of
Amberſbury gave it to Lord Burlington, now in Sir Hans Sloane's cabinet: 13
inches long. They dug a cell in a barrow eaſt of Amber/bury, and it was in
habited for fome time. There they found all the bones of a horfe. This is
the fum of what is moſt material, that fell within my obſervation, relating to
the barrows about Stonehenge. We find evidently, theſe ancient nations had
the cuſtom of burning their dead bodies, probably before the name of Rome.
So lachrymatories we read of in ſcripture, ancienter than Greek or Roman times,
Pſalm lvi. 8.
:
TAB. XXXI. the barrows in Lake-field. This is as a church-yard, the bu
rial-place of ſome town, or large family. I mention'd before, that the ditches
obſervable here, are bounds of pariſhes, hundreds or lordſhips. The country
men fometime call this group, the prophets barrows. Becauſe the French pro
phets 3o years ago, fet up a ſtandard on the largeſt barrow, and preach'd to
the enthuſiaſtic multitude. . .
TAB. XXXIII. buſh-barrow, a barrow planted by the ſhepherds. ’Tis ſouth
of Stonehenge, and commands a pleaſant proſpect of the temple, the curſus, the
avenue, and of all the barrows arounds this plain. You ſee the hills a little on
this fide Abury, whereon runs the Wanſdike, the boundary of the Belgie
kingdom. -
B. XXXIV. the tumulus of Carvilius who fought fulius Cæſar. 'Tis
on the other fide of Wilton (Carvilium) by Lord Pembroke's park: and plant
ed with four trees, as one of the viſto's to the park.
TAB. XXXV. one of the temples at Perfpolis a patriarchal one, open : but
made after Solomon's temple, fquare: with mouldings and ornaments. I take it
to be of the ſame age as Stonehenge.
C H A P.
TAB.XXIIII.
P40.
$
|
Ntr
|i
i
A
G
/ *
%
*
';
;
i
-
|
/
| 6 f';
J 1%
%
%%.
Ä
L) A
|
",
|§i|
|
##
%
|
; | | |
g, ff; 4 i #
AV M #{}; % % }
| Ë % ( 4% "| .
{ ;',%
|- :/ / / ! - Era R
| ==TT | " .
| /h/, ; ;
|| ()
| s # |1
El TA
| % /
% %% } {
' he: {{%
| 4
}
§
h '; -4 * | , ,
''////}} , "", // fi // :
% % %% // % f / / / , // //
///// % g/, // # /// */
%% % "; //////// /
/ | ||/ | /
//////žir // / / / /
D E s c R I B E D.
C H A P. XI.
Of the original name of Stonehenge, and a conjeếture of thege
neral time of building fuch kind of works. Of Wanſdike, by
whom madeand when. OfVeſpaſian'scamp. Stonehenge wascall'd
the Ambers, or Main Ambres: which mean the anointed stones,
i. e. the conſecrated, the/acred stones. The meaning of the word
Ambrofia. The Tyrian Hercules brought the Druids hither,
with Abraham's religion. Apher a grand/on of Abraham's,
his companion.
Have inform’d the reader, to the beſt of my ſkill, what was, and what
is the ſtate of Stonehenge, both above, and below ground. I apprehend,
it will be expećted, that I ſhould ſay fomewhat, concerning the antiquity and
time of erećting theſe works, eſpecially of Stonehenge. But what can we ſay,
of a matter fo very remote? where the oldeſt memoirs and reports of the old
eſt nation inhabiting the iſland, can give us no fatisfaćtion about it: but are as
far to feek, as to the founders of this wonderful work, as we are, at this time,
and are forced to apply to magic: in order to account for it. Notwithſtand
ing, I ſhall endeavour to fatisfy the readers curiofity, in this point, as well
as I can; by giving him my own opinion about it. Not doubting of his
candour, in fo arduous an attempt: which may perhaps be an amuſement
to him, whether it gains his belief, or not. Therefore, I ſhall recite, in ſhort,
what occurs to me, on this ſubjećt. 1. As to the antiquity of theſe temples
in general. 2. Of the time of founding Stonehenge.
The former will anticipate, in fome fort, what I promis'd, in treating of
the temples of the Druids in general. But I am naturally led to it, here, by
obſerving, that the name of the adjacent town of Amherſbury, points out a
relation to the work of Stonehenge, and to the ancient name of it. For as we
took notice at firſt, the preſent name of Ston enge, is purely Saxon, given by
our lateſt anceſtors, by a people wholly ſtrangers to the purport of the thing,
that had no notion, no report of its having once been a ſacred place; and fig
nifies no more than hanging-ſtones, or a ſtone-gallows. The ancient Britons
call'd it choir-gaur, which the Monks latiniz'd into chorea gigantum, the giants
dance; a name fuited to the marvelous notion they had of the ſtrućture, or
of the reports of magic, concern'd in raifing it. But I had rather chuſe to
think choir gaur in Welſh, truly means, the great church; the cathedral, in
our way of ſpeaking. A general title, which the Welſh inhabitants, the rem
nants of the Belgae, conquer’d by the Romans, gave it; as well knowing the
true uſe of it, and even frequenting it in a religious way. Tho' they had dri
ven off the firſt poſſeſfors of it, and the builders: I mean in Divitiacus his
time, or fooner, before the Roman invaſion.
There is a very plain reaſon: that Stonehenge was built, before the Wan/dike
was made, and that was the laſt boundary of the Belgic kingdom in Britain.
The ftones of which Stonehenge is compos'd, were fetcht from beyond that
boundary, confequently then an enemies country. It ſeems not improbable,
that the Wan/dike was made, when thisBelgic kingdom was at its height, and
that time we may well gueſs at, from Ceſar. “ He tells us in Bü. Gall. Lib.
II. 4. “ the Belgie are of German original. By force of arms, they posteſs'd
“ themſelves of the countries, ſouth of the Rhine and towards the ocean, dri
“ ving out the Gauls. They were a very warlike nation, and could produce
“ 1ooooo men in arms. That one of their kings Divitiacus, in the me ;
- 6 C.
O
S 7' 0 N E H E N G E
“ of fome then living, obtain'd the government, both of great part of Gaui
“ and in Britain too.” I believe the Belgae and Sicambri, all one people of
German original. Our Welſh call themſelves Cymri, and from them Cumber
land has its name. It is very juſt to think this Wan/dike was made in the time
of Divitiacus, both becauſe of the greatneſs of the work, fuiting ſo potent a
prince, and becauſe it is the laſt boundary : after that time, the Roman power
fwallowing up all diviſions.
I judge, we may reaſonably place the time of making the Wanflike, about
5o years before Caſar wrote, we may ſay Au c. 65o. Divitiacus probably
ordered it to be made in perfon. And it ſeems to have been drawn from the
upper end of the Tes river, about Whit-church, and Andover, in Hampſhire:
to the Avon river, about Bristol. Theſe two rivers and the Wan/dike ſeparated
the Belgic kingdom from the old Celtic Britons. They by this means, were
driven from this beautiful country, and from their ſtately temple of Stonehenge,
by theſe powerful invaders. It is remarkable enough, that the inhabitants of
Somerſetſhire, the ancient feat of the Belgæ, retain ſtill the Belgic, liquidating
pronunciation, v confonant for f. z for s.
The Devizes is a town in the middle of the length of Wanſlike, very pro
bably erećted, among others, to fecure this ditch or fortification. It ſeems to
have been the capital fort or frontier town, and to have its name from the king,
as a trophy or monument of his power: built by him in perſon. Anonymus
Ravennas may pofiibly call it Punčiuobice, but we have no certainty, that his
copy retains the word uncorrupt, or that he tranſcribed it right: nor what altera
tion the Romans made in the original word, nor what was made in the later
and barbarous times. However there ſeems enough therein, as well as in the
preſent name of the town, to countenance our conjećture. The former part
of the word punčiuo, which Mr. Baxter thinks monſtrous, may come, per
haps, from the German word pooghen, which fignifies an arduous work, and
might regard the caſtle here, which is faid to have been once, the ſtrongeſt
in Europe. Neubringenfiscalls it Diviste. They tell us legendary ſtories of its
being built by an old Britiſh king.
Divistis was probably the name of this Belgic Monarch, or Duiguis : as
Gluiguis king of Demetia in Wales is wrote Glivifüs in Toland, p. 186. and
the termination may have been form’d into Latin, from the Celtic word
taeog dux. Whence, perhaps, the Etruſcan Tages, fo much boaſted of
in their antiquities; likewife the modern Doge of Venice. So that Divitiacus
may well be Divifüs dux. The name of the Wanſlike, I fhewed to be purely
Celtic, p. 4.
It is an ancient oriental cuſtom to make theſe boundary ditches. Thus the
land belonging to the feveral tribes of Iſrael was marked out by a ditch, as we
read in the accounts of the holy land. Particularly the author of le voyage de
la terre fainte, printed 1675. Paris, p. 57. ſays, “ he travell'd five or fix miles
“ along fuch a ditch going from foppa to feruſalem, which parted the tribes
“ of Benjamin and fudah.” ”Tis recited fo/hua xv.
The monkiſh writers make much ado about Aurelius Ambroſius, a chriſtian
kingofthe Britons (in the time of our great anceſtorHengist) building Stonehenge,
by the help of Merlin Ambroſius the magician, in memory of the Britiſh nobility
flain treacherouſly by Hengist, at Ambre/bury. Some ſay the faćt was com
mitted ad pagum Ambri, others call it cænobium Ambrij, others ad montem
Ambrij. One while they refer the name to Ambroſius, another time to an
Abbot Ambrius, and this was among our Roman Britiſh anceſtors, who were
chriſtians. They add too, that Merlin fetch'd theſe ſtones out of Ireland,
that they had been brought before, out of Africa into Ireland: that he fet them
up here in the fame form, by art magic; and that the ftones were of a medi
cinal Virtue. Theſe matters we read in Girald. Cambrenſ de admirand. Hib.
c. 18. Higden's Polychron. v. Geoff. Monmouth VIII, Matt, Westminster, &c.
This
|--
|
-|
|||
|-|
||
||-||
|-|-|
|
||||
1||
|
||
|
||
|
i
||||
|
-*----
-
|
seg
--Fi|-
|-
,hj|
|
--*
|-||-
|-=-|
į
|
-
" ",
*****
- - - - - - -
*---- *
!
:
D E s c R I B E D. 49
This calls to my memory, what the above-mention'd Dr. Harwood in
form’d me, he had heard the great Sir Christopher Wren ſay, that there
were fuch ſtrućtures as Stonehenge, in Africa, being temples dedicate to
Saturn. But I need not be tedious in obſerving, how abfurd the Monkiſh re
ports are; of a chriſtian king erećting Stonehenge, as a ſepulchral monument
for the Britiſh nobility, mafiacred in the monaſtery of Ambrg/bury. At the
fame time they fay, their bodies were buried in the church-yard of the mo
naftery. Nor how they confound the names of Ambroſius the king, Ambrius
the abbot, the town, abby and mountain of Ambry, and perhaps of Merlin
too, for one of them was call'd Ambroſius. But their affirming, the edifice
came out of Africa into Spain, thence into Ireland, thence into Britain, and
of its being erećted here in the fame form, by art magic; and that the ftones
are of a medicinal virtue: theſe notions lead us to the original truth, of
the Druid founders, and that Stonehenge had originally, the name of Ambres,
and from it the adjacent town of Amhrg/bury had its name.
To purſue this matter a little further. Between Stonehenge and the town,
hanging over the river, upon elevated ground is a fine and ancient camp, com
monly call'd We/pa/ian's, and not without much probability, attributed to him.
We have often had occaſion to mention it before. That great man, deſtin'd
by providence for executing his final vengeance, on the people of the fews,
and thereby accompliſhing our Saviour's predićtions; by his ſucceſiès in this
place, pav'd a road to the imperial dignity. Having conquer'd the iſle of
Wight, he purſued his good fortune, higher up into this country, where he
made this camp, and another acroſs the heath, call'd ? ang/bury; which ſeems
to retain the latter part of his name. The camp we are ſpeaking of near
Ambre/bury, is an oblong ſquare, nicely placed upon a flexure of the river,
which cloſes one fide and one end of it. There is an old barrow inclos'd in it,
which, doubtleſs was one of thoſe belonging to this plain, and to the temple
of Stonehenge, before this camp was made. It is pretty to obſerve, that the
road from Stonehenge to Ambr/bury, runs upon the true via prætoria of the
camp. The Generals tent or prætorium was in that part fouth of the road, be
tween it and the river, toward little Ambroſbury. There is another gate of
the camp, at the lower end, northward, the porta prætoria ordinaria, in the
Roman language. Now I apprehend, that Stonehenge was originally call'd
the Ambres, from thence this camp was call'd Ambr/burgh, and thence the
name of the town underneath.
Mr. Camden writes, “ that near Penfans in Cornwall, is a very remarkable
“ ftone, call'd main Ambre, which tho' it be of a vaſt bigneſs, yet you may
“ move it with one finger: notwithſtanding a great number of men cannot
“ remove it from its place. The name is interpreted the ftone of Ambroſius.”
A pićture ofit in Norden's hiſtory of Cornwall, p. 48. I have ſeen one of theſe
rocking ſtones, as call'd commonly, in Derbyſhire. Mr. Toland in his hiſtory
of the Druids, mentions it too, and fays there are ſuch in Wales and in Ireland.
Sir Robert Sibbald mentions them in Scotland, all rightly judg'd to have been
done by the Druids. Sir Robert ſpeaking of the rocking stone near Balvaird
(or the Bards town) in Fife: “ I am inform’d (fays he) that this ftone was
“ broken by the uſurper Cromwell's foldiers. And it was diſcover'd then, that
“ its motion was perform'd, by a yolk extuberant in the middle of the under
“ ſurface of the uppermoſt stone, which was inferted in a cavity, in the fur
“ face of the lower ſtone.” This is the artifice of the ſtones at Stonehenge,
but applied here by the Druids for a moveable principle, as there, for ſtabili
ty. I call them mortaiſe and tenon: and before obſerv'd them to be of an egg
like form; which Sir Robert calls a yolk. The Main Amber in Cornwall was
likewiſe destroy'd in the civil wars, by one of Oliver's governors . Theſe re
formers had a notion of theſeworks being ſuperſtitious matters. Main Ambre is
lapisAmbroſius, orpetra Ambrosta. Andthat nameleads us to confider the famous
O petræ
5o ,5 / O N E H E N G E
petre Ambroste, on the coins of the city ofTyre. A ſpecimen of them, I have
drawn on the Plate following.
AMB POC IE
II ET PE
|
|
N
R
Theſe, and many more of the like fort, struck by the city of Tyre, in honour
of their founder Hercules, may be feen in Vaillant's ſecond Volume of colony
coins, pag. 69, 148, 2 18, 25 I, 337.
They repreſent two great, rough ftones, call'd petrae ambroſie, with an al
tar before them, and an olive tree; Hercules the hero of Tyre, the famous Na
vigator of antiquity, their founder, ſacrificing. On fome of the coins fetre
amhroffe wrote in Greek. He is repreſented indeed like the Greek Hercules,
but in the latter times of the Roman empire, when theſe coins were ſtruck,
they at Tyre were as far to feek about the true meaning and origin of their firſt
antiquities, as we of ours. And what knowledge they had of them, was from
legendary reports of the Greeks, who chiefly, among the heathens, had the
knack of writing. Theſe reports, as we may find in Nonnus his Diony/iacs, 4o.
and 41. acquaint us, that Hercules invented ſhipping, as a latin poet too inti
mates, Tibullus.
Prima ratem ventis credere dhếta Tyrus.
They acquaint us that he ordered Tyre to be built, where the petræ ambro
fiae ſtood, which were two moveable rocks, ſtanding by an olive tree. He
was to ſacrfice on them, and they ſhould become fixt and stable: rather, the
City ſhould bebuilt with happy auſpice, and become permanent.
Here are our Main Ambres, made artfully moveable, a kind of altars, or pil
lars, the fame as the pillars of Hercules fo fam'd, and as little underſtood. They
were the original patriarchal altars, for libations and ſacrifices, and mean, in
general, their Altars, whether moveable or immoveable: or as we may ſpeak,
their temples, which imply an altar properly, incloſed with ftones and a ditch,
or ground dedicated and fet apart for public celebration of religious rites. For
the word Ambroſius means in general, conſecrated, dedicated to religious
uſe.
Befidethe petræ ambrostae of Tyre, and our main ambres of Britain and Ire
land, we meet with another in Hephæstion's Hiſtory III. 3. “ Speakingof Her
“ cules, he mentions the Gygonian ſtone, as he calls it, near the ocean, which
“ may be mov'd with the stalk of an aſphodel, but can't be remov'd by any
“ force” . It ſeems this word Gygonius is purely Celtic. For givingog ſignifies
motitans, the rocking ftone; and gugon is what the boys with us call a gig, or
little top. For theſe Gygonian ſtones are of that ſhape, pyramidal, N
- O
-
|SS
Š
e
>
S:
}
s.
*
*
~
s
|
|
S
;
|
}
*
w
S
Š "," A MAN
·
- |
P
Š
-E#
EE=
#
EES
E
-
-
Š
§S
|
R. R. N.
W -- " |- -
!\, ,
g
| ·
|-Ë
|
|*
|
A
|
|
:
-
--
---
}
|||
*|
| W, N
||
-|
|||[]||||L
| | ||
}|U| |I
|||
í
|
|
|
||
|-|
|||--"M|
|Tla|-#
-i
|-| i
||F.--;
|i
-
|
||
}
:
|
,
í
|4
|AHi,
n
|
f.} |
a
S
§
$
<S
Š
|
§}
e
(
}-S
Ề
S
:
*
D E S C R I B E D. 5 I
No wonder theſe matters are well nigh loft, in the miſt of extreme antiquity,
when even the meaning of the word ambroſius was hardly known, either to the
antients or moderns, till Mr. Baxter diſcover'd it, in his gloffary. It fignifies
oil of roſes, roſàceum: the moſt antient kind of perfume. In the 4th Odyffy,
v. 445. Edothea a fea goddeſs, teaches Menelaus and his companions, to cure
the odious ſmell of the fea calves.
Außeori'w Ġan fiya &#z Siza q'ép3ơz
HồvacéAz Tveiáozv.
Sheputambrofia to their noſes, ſweetly ſmelling. Again, in his hymn to Venus,
the graces waſht the goddeſs, and anointed her with oil ambrofial : fuch as be
comes the immortals.
à Xeroav (Azio
Auéeć7w, diz Ges; é7rsvlooSev xièv è ſvrag.
Lastly, in Iliad. XXIII. Venus anoints Hečior's body with ambroſial oil of
roſes,
–– foÈćerti } Xeler »zla
Auếeooiw
Which is a tautology. For from length of time, they ſcarce knew the true
meaning of the word in Homer's age.
Virgil ſeems to underſtand but fomewhat of the original meaning of the
word, ſpeaking of Venus ; her hair was anointed with ointment perfum'd.
Ambrostæq; comæ divinum vertice odorem
Spiravere AEneid.
----
In Pliny Nat. Hiſt. XIII. 1. we find the oleum rhodinum moſt antient, com
mon and fimple. And this is the true ambroſia, which from its very antient
uſe in ſacred rites, had almoſt loft its meaning; and was us'd to fignify, one
while, the food of the gods, another_time, immortality; again, whatever is
divine, or appropriate to the gods. But ſimply, it ſignifies oil of roſes, ſtill
from its firſt uſe, in ſacred matters, it imports anointed, in a religious fenfe;
conſecrated, dedicated. Then main ambres, ambres, petræ ambro/iæ, fignify
the ſtones anointed with holy oil, confecrated; or in a general ſenſe a temple,
altar, or place of worſhip.
The truth is, it was a patriarchal cuſtom to conſecrate their altars, pillars,
or in a general word temples, by anointing with oil, either fimple or perfum'd.
Roſe oil being the oldeſt, engroſs'd the general name of the aćtion; ſo that a
ftone anointed with oil of roſes, is a main amber, or lapis ambroſius. The fame
is an altar, or ftone dedicate to religious uſe. The plural number, petrae am
brofiae, import a church or temple, in our way of ſpeaking.
We have an illuſtrious inſtance of this praćtice in the holy Scriptures, and
the earlieft. Gen. xxviii. This is not commonly underſtood by writers. 'Tis
the moving and memorable hiſtory of young facob, fent away from his fa
ther's houſe alone, to take a long journey to fome unknown relations. . He
came to a place, call'd afterward Bethel, and fleeping with his head on a ftone
for a pillow, had a celeſtial viſion; and a promiſe from God, of the higheſt
importance to him and all mankind. Awaking, he thought the place had
been holy ground, where, perhaps, his grandfather Abraham had before-time
built an altar; an houſe of God, or gate of heaven, as he elegantly names it.
“ Therefore he roſe up early in the morning, which was one circumſtance (in
“ patriarchal
52 J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
“ patriarchal times) of the work he was going about, and took the ſtone that
C C | had put for his pillow, and fetit up for a pillar; and poured oil upon the
“ top of it, and called the place Beth-el, i. e. the houſe of God. Then he vow
‘ ed, that if God would pleaſe to proſper him in his journey, and bring him
“ back into his own country, he would build a temple there, and conſecrate to
“ God the tythe of his ſubſtance, as was the manner in thoſe times.”
This is in reality a votive, patriarchal temple, altar or houſe of God, which
he not only vows to build, but at the fame time endows it. The ftone which
řacob anointed, was not an altar properly, lying on the ground whereon to
make a libation, but he fet it up as a pillar. It was one of the upright ftones,
which the ſcripture calls pillars, as ſtanding of itſelf; a part of the circle of
ftones, inclofing the altar. And by the aćt of anointing, facob confecrated it,
as the manner then was, deſtined it for a facred purpoſe, as an earneſt of his
will in good time to fulfil it. And this he did fulfil, chap. xxxv. building the
celebrated temple of Bethel. Here feroboam fet up one of his golden calves.
At laſt it was deſtroy'd by Veſpastan.
In Exod.xxiv. 4. “ we have an inſtance ofMoſes rifing up early in the morning
“ and building an altar, and fetting up 12 pillars around it.” This was before the
tabernacle was made, which introduced the cuſtom of cover'd temples.
But fo famous was that patriarchal temple of facob's, which he built at Be
thel; that the heathen called all their temples of that fort, when they were per
verted to idolatrous purpoſes, Baethylia, lapides Baetyli, and the like. Which
indeed is but another manner of exprefſing lapis Ambroſius, or our Main Am
bre. And according to cuſtom, the fabulous Greeks having loft the true hiſto
ry of its origin, affix'd many ſtrange ſtories to it; as of Saturn devouring fuch
a ftone, wrapt up in a ſkin, inſtead of his Son fupiter: which ſeems to be
form’d from the memory of praying at theſe places, in the name of the media
torial deity, as the patriarchs did. And Sanchoniathon tells us, the god Oura
nus deviſed Baetylia, or animated ftones. He means our rocking ftones, gygo
nian ſtones. I ſhall ſhow in my diſcourſe on that ſubjećt, that by Ouranus,
he means righteous Noah, who, according to patriarchal uſage, builded an al
tar unto febovab, Gen, viii. 2o. meaning one of theſe patriarchal temples. In
time, by the corruption of mankind, theſe places were defecrated to idolatrous
purpoſes; and writers pervert the intent of them. So that God Almighty, raiſ
ing up the Moſaic Diſpenſation, was oblig'd to interdićt the very uſe and pra
étice of theſe open temples, and introduce the cover'd one of the tabernacle;
by way of oppoſition to heatheniſm, as well as with other important views.
We find now the meaning of anointed ftones in antiquity, and the olive
tree fet by the ftones on the Tyrian coins. As the very learned Author of Ar
chæologia Græca obſerves, on the affair of conſecration, “ they were more
“ or leſs ſumptuous and expenſive, as other parts of divine worſhip, accord
“ ing to the ability of the worſhippers.” Young facob a traveller us'd plain
oil, part of his viaticum, others us'd perfum’d oil, or ambrosta. That author
cites us from Athenæus, the method of conſecrating fupiter Cteſias's ſtatue
with a libation call'd ambrofia: and others by anointing with oil, prayers and
libations, Exodus xxx. 22. We have the holy precious ointment made under
the fewiſh diſpenſation for the like purpoſe. And we uſe fuch, for inaugura
tion of our kings, to this day.
The Tyrian Hercules who built Tyre and fet up thepetræ Ambroſae in thoſe
coins, (if I miſtake not) liv'd as early as the time, of facob's anointing the
ftone at Bethel. The great Bochart, who penetrated very deep into the Phe
nician learning, looks upon it as a clear matter, that in fofhua's time, the
Phænicians fent innumerable colonies, into the mediterranean coaſts, and
even to the ocean. In the preface to his admirable work Canaan, he fays,
“ he has a great ſuſpicion, that colonies went abroad this way, before that
“ time. Particularly, he afferts, that Hercules, in Euſebius firnamed Defanaus,
“ who
(
§||
§
B
A
T
2.
!5
P
||
|
:*
2
l,
#-*
,|
}*.
yN-
-'|
i||-!
*
,
|A
-}-|
||
|
|\,:
||-|-|
||*-:",',}
}|}|};
-|
|\*|||-.
|;}
-
}-}
!#*
};
R
V
4/
4/
'/
4
/f/%
52. J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
“ patriarchal times) of the work he was going about, and took the ſtone that
g g | had put for his pillow, and fetit up for a pillar; and poured oil upon the
“ top of it, and called the place Beth-el, i. e. the houſe of God. Then he vow
‘ ed, that if God would pleaſe to proſper him in his journey, and bring him
“ back into his own country, he would build a temple there, and conſecrate to
“ God the tythe of his ſubſtance, as was the manner in thoſe times.”
This is in reality a votive, patriarchal temple, altar or houſe of God, which
he not only vows to build, but at the fame time endows it. The ſtone which
řacob anointed, was not an altar properly, lying on the ground whereon to
make a libation, but he fet it up as a pillar. It was one of the upright ftones,
which the ſcripture calls pillars, as ſtanding of itſelf; a part of the circle of
ftones, inclofing the altar. And by the aćt of anointing, facob conſecrated it,
as the manner then was, deſtined it for a ſacred purpoſe, as an earneſt of his
will in good time to fulfil it. And this he did fulfil, chap. xxxv. building the
celebrated temple of Bethel. Here feroboam fet up one of his golden calves.
At laſt it was deſtroy'd by Veſpastan.
In Exod.xxiv. 4. “ we have an instance ofMoſes rifing up early in the morning
“ and building an altar, and fetting up 12 pillars around it.” This was before the
tabernacle was made, which introduced the cuſtom of cover'd temples.
But fo famous was that patriarchal temple of facob's, which he built at Be
thel; that the heathen called all their temples of that fort, when they were per
verted to idolatrous purpoſes, Baethylia, lapides Baetyli, and the like. Which
indeed is but another manner of exprefſing lapis Ambroſius, or our Main Am
bre. And according to cuſtom, the fabulous Greeks having loft the true hiſto
ry of its origin, affix'd many ſtrange ſtories to it; as of Saturn devouring ſuch
a ftone, wrapt up in a ſkin, inſtead of his Son fupiter: which ſeems to be
form’d from the memory of praying at theſe places, in the name of the media
torial deity, as the patriarchs did. And Sanchoniathon tells us, the god Oura
nus deviſed Bætylia, or animated ftones. He means our rocking ftones, gygo
nian ftones. I ſhall ſhow in my diſcourſe on that ſubjećt, that by Ouranus,
he means righteous Noah, who, according to patriarchal uſage, builded an al
tar unto febovab, Gen. viii. 2o. meaning one of theſe patriarchal temples. In
time, by the corruption of mankind, theſe places were deſecrated to idolatrous
purpoſes; and writers pervert the intent of them. So that God Almighty, raif
ing up the Moſaic Diſpenſation, was oblig'd to interdićt the very uſe and pra
ćtice of theſe open temples, and introduce the cover'd one of the tabernacle;
by way of oppoſition to heatheniſm, as well as with other important views.
We find now the meaning of anointed ftones in antiquity, and the olive
tree fet by the ftones on the Tyrian coins. As the very learned Author of Ar
chæologia Græca obſerves, on the affair of conſecration, “ they were more
“ or leſs ſumptuous and expenſive, as other parts of divine worſhip, accord
“ ing to the ability of the worſhippers.” Young facob a traveller us'd plain
oil, part of his viaticum, others us'd perfum’d oil, or ambrosta. That author
G
cites us from Athenæus, the method of conſecrating fupiter Cteſias's ſtatue
with a libation call'd ambrofia: and others by anointing with oil, prayers and
libations, Exodus xxx. 22. We have the holy precious ointment made under
the fewiſh diſpenſation for the like purpoſe. And we ufe ſuch, for inaugura
tion of our kings, to this day.
The Tyrian Hercules who built Tyre and fet up the petræ Ambroſae in thoſe
coins, (if I mistake not) liv'd as early as the time, of facob's anointing the
ftone at Bethel. The great Bochart, who penetrated very deep into the Phae
nician learning, looks upon it as a clear matter, that in fofhua's time, the
Phænicians fent innumerable colonies, into the mediterranean coaſts, and
even to the ocean. In the preface to his admirable work Canaan, he ſays,
“ he has a great ſuſpicion, that colonies went abroad this way, before that
“ time. Particularly, he afferts, that Hercules, in Euſébius firnamed Defanaus,
“ who
||
P52. TABXXVII.
||
D E s c R I B E D. 53
“ who was famous in Phænicia before the Exodus, is thefame, who conquer'd
“ Antaeus in Africa: which in Eufèbius, is fet 56 years before. He iscall'd Her
“ cules primus, and that is 63 years before the Exodus, in Euſébius's chrono
‘; logy.” Again, hejudges it to be 2ooo years diſtance between the later Ro
man times and the firſt Hercules. Now from Constantine the great, 2ooo
years carriesus up to facob's time. And he proves, from Aristotlede mirabilibus,
that Hercules built Utica in Africa, atthat time ; wherein Euſebius ſays he was
famous in Phænicia, and this muſt be when Hercules was old. He having
conquer'd Antæus in that country, when he was young,
But I find in the fame Euſébius, Prometheus is fet 1 1 1 years ſtill earlier, be
fore the firſt mention of Hercules, this is during the life of the patriarch fo
Jeph. Prometheus and Atlas were brothers, and ſtudents in Aſtronomy, with
whom the ſtory of Hercules isalways conjoin'd. And fo high at leaft, I muſt
place the time of our Tyrian Hercules, who is the fame as Defanaus. But
Marianus tranſcribing Euſébius calls him Dofenaus. And He/jchius fays Dorfànes
is a name of Hercules, with the Indians. But by the Indians, it is likely, the
Phænicians and Arabians are meant; for the ancient Greeks call all the country
to the eaſt of the mediterranean fea, India. And then we may in fome mea
fure underſtand the report of Ammianus Marcellinus, who takes it from Tima
genes, an old Greek Hiſtorian, but a Syrian by nation, ſpeaking concerning the
peopling of Gaul, “ that the more ancient Hercules condućted the Dorienſes,
“ to the countries bordering on the ocean.” Perhaps the Dofareni are meant,
an Arabian nation, mention'd by Ptolemy. A Deity of the Arabians was called
Dufaris or Dofaris, mention'd by Step. Byzant, Suidas and Tertullian. A dif
ficult word, which Bochart cannot trace from the Arabian language; nor is it
eaſy to ſay, what Deity he was. No wonder fuch matters are obſcur'd, thro’
fo long diſtance of time. Some think him Bacchus, ſome Mars, and why not
Hercules? for after mankind laps'd into idolatry, theſe three were much con
founded.
I find fufficient teſtimony, of the Tyrian Hercules coming from Arabia,
about the red fea, or having companions, that were natives of that country.
For this reaſon they nam’d an iſland at the city of Gadis, which they built,
Erythia, Erythraea; which Pliny IV. 22. fays, was fo called from the first
poſſeſfors, the Tyrians, who came from the Erythraean fea: which is the
red fea. Solinus ſays the fame. That fea had its name from Erythras,
as the Greeks and the fame Pliny write; who is Edom o Estàu, brother of fa
cob. The words are ſynonymous, ſignifying red. The reports of Hercules's
expedition to that iſland Erythraea now Cadiz, is famous in all the old Greek
WT1tCrS.
This relation we have given of the Tyrian Hercules, that he lived about the
time of Abraham, or foon after, according to Euſébius's chronology; that he
came from about the red fea, and had companions in his travels, that lived
thereabouts, is much confirm’d by what foſephus writes, from Alexander Po
lyhistor; who cites it from a very antient author, called Cleodemus, fir
nam’d Malchus, who wrote a hiſtory of the fews, agreeable with the Moſaic.
He ſays, Abraham had feveral Sons by Keturah, he names Apher, Suris and
faphra. That Apher and faphra were auxiliaries to Hercules, when he fought
in Lybia againſt Antæus. That from Apher the country was nam'd Africa.
That Hercules married his daughter, and begat of her Dodorus. foſephus in
the fame chap. of the firſt book of his antiquities, writes, that Abraham had
fix fons born of Keturah : men, heroic and wife. That they and their poſteri
ty were fettled in Troglodytis, in the country of Arabia felix, reaching to the
red fea. He makes Opher or Apher grandſon to Abraham, by Midian his fon.
That Apher waged war in Lybia and conquer'd it, and plac'd his fons there, who
call'd the Country Africa from their father. So Schindler in his lexicon,
ag. 136 I.
fag P Ma
54 S 7 0 N E H E N G E
Making proper allowance for relations ofſuch very antient matters, tranſmit
ted by hiſtorians of different countries, different languages, and ſo often tranſcri
bed and tranſlated, before they come down to us; here is enough to confirm
and explain, what we have before advanc'd: both as to time and place, and
matter. And we cannot but ſee what relation our Main Ambres and the gygo
mian ſtone by the ocean, have to the petræ ambroſie, which Hercules fet up at
Tyre: which is the drift of my diſcourſe. That very gygonian ſtone, for ought
I fee, may be our rocking-ſtone near Penfans, it stands by the ſea-fide. Nor
do I fee any abſurdity, if wejudge, that it was erećted there, by Hercules in
perfon. Near it is that other famousDruid temple call'd Biſcawoon, confisting
of 19 pillars in a circle and a central kebla. The entrance is made of 2 fome
what larger ftones, than the reſt: not improbably one of the Herculean labours.
It is affirm’d by the beſt authors, that our Tyrian Hercules, the more ancienter
Hercules, built the city of Gadis, at Cadiz now. And where-ever Hercules
came, there we read of his pillars. Thus Avienus.
Hic Gadir urbs est, dičia Tarteffius prius,
Hic fiunt columnæ pertinacis Herculis.
Arrian II. of the life of Alexander, remarks, “ that Gadis was built by the
“ Phænicians. There was a temple of Hercules. The form, the ſacrifices
“ and ceremonies there perform'd, are all afer the Phænician manner.” Stra
bo in his Lib. III. fays there were two pillars in this temple, dedicate to Hercu
les; which the learned Tristan in his commentaries on medals, p. 384. fays, he
doubts not, but they werepetræ ambrosta, in imitation of thoſe ofthe fame name,
in the temple of Hercules of Tyre, which Herodotus in Euterpe ſpeaks of He
appears to have been an extraordinary genius, and a man of great piety withal.
Therefore where-ever he came, he made theſe patriarchal temples, or fet u
pillars of ſtone, as antiquity called them. Juſt as the patriarchal family did
in the land of Canaan. And Hercules ſeems to me, to have been a great man,
raiſed up by providence, to carry the reform’d patriarchal religion, to the ex
tremest part of the then known weſtern world. Here, I ſuppoſe, the reli
gion of Abraham remain'd pure, for many ages, under the Druids, till per
haps corrupted by incurſions from the continent. It is remarkable, that the
Romans, who were ſo catholic, (different from thoſe we now abſurdly call Ro
man catholics) as to permit all religions, perſecuted only that of the Druids,
and the chriſtian: whence we are naturally led to think, there was a good
deal of reſemblance. Indeed, the Druids are accuſed of human ſacrifices.
They crucified a man and burnt him on the altar; which ſeems to be a moſt
extravagant act of ſuperſtition, deriv'd from fome extraordinary notices they
had of mankind's redemption: and perhaps from Abraham's example mifun
derſtood. But as to human ſacrifices fimply confidered, the Romans them
felves and all other nations upon earth at times, praćtis'd them.
To this Hercules, antiquity affixed very many names, from different noti
ons of him, retain’din different countries; and after idolatry took root, he was
worſhipp'd under thoſe names of conſecration, according to the old method.
For inſtance, one of his names was Palaemon. Palaemon, ſays Heffchius, is
Hercules. The Greeks madehim a fea Deity, who had been fo great a ſea-cap
tain. They call him Melicerta, which is his Phænician name Melcartus, king
of the city. Ovid tells us the ſtory in Met. IV. Nonnus calls him Astrochiton
ſtarry-robed, from his being made a conſtellation in heaven. In the Gallic
f of him, which Lucian ſaw, he is repreſented with a ſphere in one
and, under the name of Ogmius. Mr. Toland in his history of the Druids,
fhews us the true interpretation of that word, from the Iriſh language; after the
learned had in vain attempted theexplication of it. From thence we infer he
brought the uſe of letters hither, Ceſar informs us, the Druids had :
C
XXVIII
"I AH
|Š.
§ÈiŠ|
P.54.
|
N
/|
i||
H--
|
'
;:
i
|F
-.§§
--i
s#
|-
|-
È~
;
:2|
N|
•-s
-
st
Ss
s
s
----:#
---
2
-3
-*
S
~=
s-3.:-53----|-::::
-
|
|-s|
|-
:
---
---
--.~
s|
S
–--
:
-------|--
-
*-----
4--
--r|
-|-|
-
A*
<.
§s$
§
§SS
'
.
|4
|
J|
4·
{//í
-
Ấ
r
%|--
}
|
|
i
|
*į||4|
||--;-MR--||-|#
-
§to|-gB
}4
/||U
****|-|-
|-||-
||
|5W
3|4||-[
*-v|-|--
*|||}4
|-v.}HG;|||-;
--|-
;-,
i.|È
§
NS
È
S
|
'|
|||
|-|-}
||%
|
|#
||
|
||
.|}
||
|-|
s
Š
Š
»~§'
"
\
|-\|
*»
\s*|
W
.
|-SS
sS§
Š*
|
----ss§
r-sSS
§§Š
|
D E s c R I B E D. 55
He is called Affis, by the eaſterns, which fignifies the valiant: the fame as Hae
fus of the Germans.
Befide the patriarchal custom of building theſe places of worſhip, and con
fecrating them with oil, we find many other footſteps of that moſt ancient
religion, in the hiſtory of Hercules. . Silius ſpeaking of the ſtrange rites uſed
in the Gaditan temple of Hercules, fays, the prieſts officiated there barefooted,
praćtis'd chaftity, had no statues, us'd white linen furplices. And it is a noto
rious custom with the ancient Phænicians, to pay tithe. Indeed they paid
tythe to Hercules. Which only imports, that it was a precept and praćtice
introduc'd by Hercules. And after they had deified Hercules they praćtis'd it
toward him. This was a common method, when idolatry began. I ſhall
treat more largely of theſe affairs; when I diſcourſe expreſily of the patriarchal re
ligion. Likewife, I ſhall prove more fully, from chronological charaćters,
that this Hercules liv'd at the time, we are ſpeaking of, in the canon Moſaicae
chronologiae. What I now recite, concerning theſe matters, I could not well
avoid, as they in my apprehenſion, relate to the name of Stonehenge.
Pliny Nat. Hist. VII. 56. gives us a teſtimony, of our Hercules, under the
name of Melcartus, (as Bochart rightly correćts it) firſt bringing tin into
Greece, from the Caffiteridiflands. By which the Britiſh are meant. The tin
of Tyre, which the merchants of Greece, came to buy, at the fairs of that ci
ty, is mention'd Ezekiel xxvii. 12. which, no doubt, came from hence. But
it is much earlier mention'd, among lead and other metals, when the Midia
nites had it in Moſes's time, Numbers xxxi. 22. the Chaldee and Arabic verfion
there, uſe the word kastira, the Hieroſolymitan kistara. No wonder the Mi
dianites ſhould then abound with tin: when we were told by fof phus, that
Apher ſon of Midian, was one of Hercules's companions. The LXX. in
that paſſage of Numbers call it (zsi-eos. But tin is mention'd earlier still, in
job xix. 24. and fob liv'd in this fame country, on the borders of Arabia.
It is very evident from Bochart, that the Phænicians, had fail'd quite round
Britain, by what he writes of Thule. How then can we doubt but the great
įland, which they found in the extremeſt weſt, was Britain? but they kept
their gainful navigation hither fo ſecret, for many centuries, that even Herodo
tus the earlieft Greek writer profeſſes he knows not, whence the tin comes.
Britain was the only country, where it could come from, in any quantity, as
Pliny fays. But from this great ſecrecy of the Phanicians, we have loſt the
high antiquities of Britain, as unknown to the Greeks ; the only heathen na
tion that had the addreſs to commit things to writing. Therefore we muſt be
content with what ſmall remains of this kind, can be fiſh'd out of the wreck
of time, by fuch conjećtural methods, as antiquaries cannot avoid infifting
OI).
In Devonſhire is Hartland point fo call'd corruptly, asthe excellent Camden
obſerves, for Herculis promontorium. And upon the Durham fea coaſt is a
town on a promontory call'd Hartlepool. A village call'd Hart near it. I take
it to have been call'd by the Greek traders here Heracleopolis. And hence, pro
bably came that fine old altar in Greek, dedicated to the TyrianHercules, which
Mr. Roger Galeand I copied, in Corbridge church-yard.
From theſe and many other confiderations of this kind, which I ſhall here
after treat of more largely and profeſſedly: I cannot but join in opinion with
Franc. Philelphus in his epiſtles, and Lilius Giraldus in his Hercules mention'd
by Mr. Camden, in thelaſt quoted paſſage, and with many other writers, thatthe
very ancient Phænician or Tyrian Hercules condućted an eaſtern colony hither;
upónthe aborigines; withwhom camethe Druids, the buildersofStonebenge and
the like works among us. And let thisſuffice for what Ipromis'd upon the firſt
head of thischapter, viz. to ſpeak of the antiquity of theſe works in general.
2. We are to ſpeak of the time of founding Stonehenge,
56 J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E )
C H A P. XII. -
A conjesture about the time of the founding of Stonehenge,
An uniform variation in fetting theſe works, not to be accounted
for, but by ſuppoſing the Druids us'd a magnetical compa/s.
Their leader, the Tyrian Hercules, was poffe/s'd of a compg/s
box. The oracle of Jupiter Ammon had a compaß-box. The
golden fleece at Colchis was a compa/s-box. Both theſe temples
werefounded by Apher, Hercules his companion, and grand/on
to Abraham. Apher, Aphricus, or Phryxus the fame perſon,
&ems to have given name to Britain. The Druids /et their tem
ples and other works by it. The history of the mariner's compa/s,
Jince thattime. The history ofthe variationofthemagnetic needle.
A conječžure of the time of building Stonehenge, from thence.
N my Enquiries into theſe works of the antient Druids in our iſland, I ob
I ferved a greater exaćtneſs in placing them, with regard to the quarters of
the heavens, than one would expećt, in works ſeemingly fo rude; and in fo re
mote an age, to which we muſt neceſſarily refer them. What more particular
ly mov'd my attention, was a certain variation from cardinal points, which I
obſerved regular and uniform, in the works of one place. And that variation
was different, in works of another place; yet equally regular and uniform in
that place. Suppoſe (for inſtance) the works about Abury in Wiltſhire gene
rally vary 9 or 1o degrees to the left hand, from cardinal points: i. e. weſtward
from the north. And the worksat Stonehenge generally vary to the right hand,
from cardinal points, and that to the quantity of 6 or 7 degrees. The principal
diameter or groundline of Stonehenge, leading from the entrance, up the middle
of the temple, to the high altar, (from which line the whole work is form’d)
varies about that quantity fouthward of the north eaſt point. The intent ofthe
founders of Stonehenge, was to fet the entrance full north east, being the point
where the fun riſes, or nearly, at the fummer folſtice. As well becauſe that
is the fartheft elongation of the great celeſtial luminary, northward; the com
plement of our earthly felicity, in ripening the fruits of the earth : as becauſe
.then they celebrated one of their principal religious meetings or feſtivals, with
facrifices, publick games, and the like. Such was the cuſtom of all the antient
nations. The Isthmian, Nemæan, Pythian games, famous in the
works of the learned nations: thoſe of Tyre II. Maccabees iv. 18. dedicated to
their and our founder, the antient Tyrian Hercules, who, I ſuppoſe, condućted
the firſt Phænician colony, with our Druids, into Britain: theſe were all held
at this time of the year. A cuſtom continu'd from patriarchal times. *
This exaćtneſs with which the Druids fet their works, and the uniformit
of their variation, make me believe, this variation was not the effećt of chance
or negligence.
By a ſuperficial reflexion upon it, we ſhould be apt to ſuſpect, it was owing
to their obſerving the fun's rifing on the longeſt day of the year, or ſummer ſol
ftice, and fetting their line by it. For this is ſuppoſed to be a method by which
they formerly fet our Churches: marking the fun's rifing at the equinox. But
the Druids were too good aſtronomers and mathematicians to need fo mean an
artifice: nor does it correſpond to the quantity preciſely enough. Befides, this
fame variation appears where it cannot poſibly regard the fun's rifing, at that
time,
- - For,
«
|
|
$
:
6. T.A.E.XXIX.
P 6
-J.
|
|
|
|
G
A
I
|
|
|
|
**
-
**
-
|
4
|
|
D E s C R I B E D. 57
For, I obſerv'd the like variation, or very near, in all the other parts relating
to this temple before taken notice of; befide the avenue leading up to the tem
ple from the north eaſt, in a ſtrait line; which has the before-mention'd variati
on all the way. At the bottom of the hill, this avenue divides into two wings,
each going off from the laſt mention'd part, with a decent ſweep; the one to
the left hand, weſtward, the other to the right hand, eaſtward. They go off
with a like angle, and that angle varies the like quantity. The western wing
goes to the curſus, before obſerv'd, the place upon the downs, half a mile off
Stonehenge, made for races with chariots and horſes. The right hand wing of
the avenne runs direćtly eaſtward for a mile together, pointing to a place on an
angle of the river, called Radfin. This part of the avenue, which was intend
ed by the founders, to have been drawn preciſely eaſt and weſt, varies about 5
or 6 degrees to the fouth.
Likewife, that great work of the curſus itſelf, which stretches its length a
croſs the downs, from eaſt to weſt, like a line of latitude upon the globe, varies
fuch a like quantity, from true eaſt and weſt, the fame way. The meridian :
line of Stonehenge paffes exaćtly through the middle of this curſus.
Further, at the eaſt end of this curfüs, the huge bank of earth, above 2oo
foot long, made acroſs the end of the curſus, as a meta, and whereon fat the
princes andjudges of the prizes: This bank of earth is drawn exaćtly at a right
angle with the curſus, conſequently due north and ſouth, but with the variati
on before ſpoken of Theſe, and other like obſervations here, as well as in o
ther Druid Works, appear'd to me no otherwiſe to be accounted for, but that
the Druids us'd a magnetical compaſs, in laying down the works: and that the
needle vary'd fo much, at that time, from the true meridian line.
I remember I open'd this affair, near 2o Years ago, to Dr. Halley, who was
of the fame fentiment. Nor am I the firſt who fufpećted the Phænicians of
old were poſleffed of this great ſecret, as well as the Chineſe, from times imme
morial. I am not moved to think otherwiſe by what Bochart writes againſt it.
The very name of the magnet lapis Heraclius ſtrongly ſuggeſts, the Tyrian na
vigator before-mention'd knew it, as is well argued by Fuller in his Miſcella
nies, IV. 19. And many things occur, in the mythology of the antients,
wherein (if I miſtake not) I diſcern moſt evident traces of this knowledge of
the direćtive power of the magnet. We are not to deſpiſe the fables of the an
tients, but to make the beſt uſe of them, and ſearch out for their latent truths.
My predeceſſor Cumberland, obſerves in Sanchoniathon, p. 325. “ that Apol
“ lodorus (for inſtance) hath many truths in his mythic hiſtory, deriv'd from the
“ tradition of Phænicians and Egyptians, planting Athens.” And the Greeks,
thoſe happy praćtitioners in writing, as well as other arts, took the unlucky
turn of the marvellous, to fo exorbitant a degree, as to write nothing without it.
In Apollodorus, put out by the learned Dr. Gale, p. I 14, we have an ac
count of the 1oth labour of Hercules, his conqueſt of Cadiz, or Gadira, as
then call'd, or Erythea. We are told, the hero fet up the 2 pillars at the
Streights mouth, at Gibralter, or then Tarteffus; which we may reaſonably
fuppoſe fome temple made of theſe rough ftones, or fome main ambres, like
thoſe we mention'd before, the petræ ambroſiae in the Tyrian coins. Then,
“ ſays our author, going on his journey, the rays of the fun were ſo vehement
“ upon him, that he had the boldneſs to draw his bow againſt him. The
“ god admiring the intrepidity of the man, gave him a golden cup with which
“ he fail'd over the ocean.” . Piſander in his Ild. book, (in Atheneus Deipno/
XI.) writes the fame, only that Oceanus lent him the cup. Panyafis in his I.
of the hiſtory of Hercules, ſays, he begg'd it of Nereus, fon of Sol, and with it
fail'd to Erythea. (Macrob. Saturn XXI. 5.) Theoclytus, in Atheneus afore
faid, in his II. de tempest. mentions the fame thing. He faid it before in his Ti
tanomachia. Pherecydes, in his III. of history, quoted both in Atheneus and
Macrobius, tells a ſtory fomewhat like that of Apollodorus, but more particular.
Q– Servius
58 S 7 O N E H E N G E
Servius Æn. VII. mentions it, but as fome of the former, makes the cup ofbraſs,
inſtead of gold. Alexander Epheſius the like. All very antient writers. Lu
cian ſays, that Hercules fail'd in a ſea-conch ſhell. What can we understand
by all this, mention'd by fo many grave authors, but a compaſs-box,which ena
bled him to fail the great ocean, and penetrate to our northern iſland, leſs ob
noxious to the funs vehement heat? Add to this, in the fame place, Apollodo
rus ſpeaks of his fighting Albion and Dercynus, by Mela, called Bergion, Sons
of Neptune; which were the moſt antient names of the Britannic Iſles, before
the name of Britain. Diodorus Siculus, in his IV. book delivers a like account
of this Ioth labour of Hercules, but in a mere hiſtorical manner. And adds, that
when he return'd by Sicily, he dedicated a grove to Geryon the hero, where,
to his time, the people did religious rites. For this affair of facred groves, we
know our Druids were famous. He built a temple likewiſe at Gades. We are
not to ſuppoſe it a cover'd edifice, like what poſterity call'd a temple, but an
open one, according to the mode of thoſe days. Cover'd temples, at that time,
being a thing unknown in the world. Afterward, a magnificent temple, pro
perly, was there built to him. Mela witneſſes, that it was our Egyptian Her
cules, who was there worſhipped. For I ſuppoſe our Egyptian and the Tyrian
Hercules to be all one. The fame mention'd by the name of Affis, in Mane
thons XVII. Dynasty, in fof phus c. App. in Africanus, Euſèbivs, and Syncellus.
Apollonius II. 14. writes, it was not the Theban but the Egyptian Hercules that
came to Gades: which is confirm’d by Hecateus. And Herodotus, in Euterpe
fays, Hercules is a very antient deity among the Egyptians, not fo, among the
Greeks. And I ſuppoſe this hero lived at, or very near the time of the patri
arch Abraham. - -
Theſe were the times about the beginning of idolatry. And Hercules was
far from being an idolater himſelf, though worſhipp'd afterwards, for his great
exploits, and perhaps on this very account of his inventing or knowing the uſe
of the compaſs. This is the Hercules kneeling on one knee, a conſtellation in
heaven, taken notice of by Dionyſius Halycarn. by Tzetzes, Hyginus, Æsthylus
and others. It ſeems to indicate his piety; for which the astronomers his dif
ciples plac'd him in the heavens. He kneels upon the arćtic circle, and ſup
ports the zodiac on his ſhoulders; tho' this is not underſtood by the painting
on our modern globes. The Phænicians, his ſucceſſors in the tin trade of Bri
tain, kept the trade and the very name of the Iſland as a great ſecret ; as well
as the uſe of the compaís, till it was loft with them. But it ſeems highly pro
bable, becauſe Lucian deſcribes Hercules with a ſphere in his hand, that he af
fixed the preſent Aſteriſms of the zodiac: and his ſucceſſors, the Phænicians,
propagated them. - -
'Tis next to our preſent purpoſe, to confider that famous oracle of fupiter
Ammon in Africa, to be referr'd to the moſt early times of idolatry: render'd
illuſtrious by Alexander the Great taking a journey to it. Which gives us the
opportunity of knowing ſomewhat of it.
Quamvis Æthiopum populis, Arabumq; beatis
Gentibus, ac Indis, unus fit fupiter Ammon. Lucan.
All theſe nations, with Egypt and Africa, were peopled by the poſterity
chiefly of Ham. They were the firſt that fell into idolatry, and worſhipped
* their common progenitor, call'd Amynus, in Sanchoniathon. Hecateus ſays,
Amoún, as the Egyptians write it, is the word of thoſe that invoke god, and
that they meant ſomewhat very myſterious by it. The hiſtorv of its origin is
this. Bacchus, the hero, or demigod, travelling through the fandy defarts of
Africa, with a great army, was periſhing with thirſt; he pray'd to his father
fupiter for relief, who fent a ram thatſhow'd him a ſpring, ſav'd him and his
hoſt. Out of gratitude, the hero builds a temple there, to the deity who
aided
|
{
N
NS§R
1|
§:§*
|-ŠR§
-N
|
N
-
N
S
§
te
RT.
.R
§
§ -
'š
- S. TSRS
§ §
S
"
-
-
|s
'r
ATT T Mko".
- w MM
\N \\ \\ \\
\ \\ "
\ :
n
1W m Eft" |
N
§
-
;|-|
|
4
%
-:
s
*\
\
|
| |-Z
|
-4%|-.
//»^
v:
:ż|-|-|#
--|-
|-
|--
|-
·
*
4||
//-
|-,
4-%*
|-r
2
/A0|
;%|-A}#
%
-
--
-|
{;|-
|-
.
|
-
.*
-%|
|
|
|:
|||
{|
|*
-
|
T
|
|-1
|-|
r
|
r
|]
|
|
|
"
|G |
|| 1
*
}
4|
|
|
|
|
-|
|
P.58. TAB.XXX.
Š
Š
Š
|S
S
N§
S
G
D E S C R I B E D. 59
aided him under the form of a ram. There is no room to doubt, that this
is in part copied from the tranſaction of the children of Iſrael, in the Arabian
wilderneſs. They have added to it, a name and notion borrowed from patri
archal tradition, of a divine perfon, ſymboliz'd by a ram; horned, anointed,
which is all one. We chriſtians mean Meffiab. Innumerable pafages in old
authors, which I might cite, innumerable monuments of antiquity in ſculp
ture, ſhew, that fupiter Ammon was figur'd as a ram, with a ram's head,
with rams horns. They applied the patriarchal notion of the Mffiah, to their
progenitor Ham, in an idolatrous way: and deified him under that charaćter.
There is a very remarkable paſſage in Herodotus, which, it is worth our while,
to tranſcribe.
In Euterpe cap. 42. that author tells us, why the Theban Egyptians pay fo
great a regard to the ſheep. “ Hercules on his importunity to fupiter,
“ that he might have the honour perſonally to fee him, at length prevail'd.
And the god confented to exhibit himſelf to his view, under this device.
viz. fupiter cut off a ram's head, put the ſkin over his own head, and thus
appear'd to Hercules. Whence the Egyptians made the ſtatue of fupiter,
with a ram's head, and call fupiter Ammóun. Whence they hold ſheep
for ſacred animals, never kill them but once a year, upon the feſtival day of
Yupiter, when only one ram is ſacrificed, and his head put upon the ſtatue
of futiter ; all that are there preſent, beat the ram, and at laſt he is buried
in a ſacred urn.”
It is impoſible not to fee, that this is derived from that hiſtory recorded,
Exodus xxxiii. Moſès defires of řehovah repeatedly, that he might fee him.
He calls it ſeeing his glory. He is anſwer’d at length. “ I will make all my
“ goodne/s paſs before thee, and I will proclaim the name of Yehovah before
“ thee. Thou canft not fee my face, but I will put thee in a cleft of the
“ rock, and cover thee with my hand, whilſt I paſs by. Thou ſhalt fee my
“ back parts only.” Here he notoriouſly promifes Moſès, that he ſhall fee him,
in a ſymbolical form. In the next chapter, Jehovah deſcended in the lumi
nous cloud, or Shechinah, and proclaimed the name of fehovah; recites
thoſe attributes that relate to his dealings with mankind, in the ſtrongeſt
point of light; “ his goodneſs and mercy, and long-ſuffering, forgiving ini
“ quity, tranſgreflion and fin : but adds, he will by no means clear the guilty,
“ but vifit the fathers iniquity upon the children.” Wherein our original and
fatal tranſgreſiion is ſufficiently intimated, and that God's juſtice is equal to his
mercy; and the neceſity of a divine redemption by ſacrifice, which in ſcri
ture language is call'd, “ the lamb flain from the foundation of the world.”
All this the moſt ancient nations had a knowledge of, from patriar
chal tradition. When they laps'd into idolatry, they applied theſe good noti
ons to their new idolatry, and made ſtatues from the ſymbolical and figurative
forms of ſpeech, us'd in true religion. Their ſacrificing the ram on the feſti
val day of fupiter, their beating the ram, putting his head on the ſtatue of
their deity, burying him in a ſacred urn: all moſt evidently pointing out the
notions they had, in the moſt early times, of the ſuffering ſtate of the Meffiah.
And ſuch was the origin, in ſhort, of fupiter Ammon. But it appears, by
what learned authors write, on Curtius's deſcription of his statue, that a mag
netical compaſs box made one confiderable part of his ſacreds. This we read
in Hyde Perf. relig. p. 495. in Curtius publiſh’d by Pitiſcus, and by Rader
the jeſuite, and Schottus in Ortelius, by Fuller, Herwart and others. “ This
“ compaſs box with the ſtatue of the deity, was fet in a golden ſhip
“ (the golden cup of Hercules) and carried in procestion on the ſhoul
“ ders of the prieſts, accompanied by women finging an hymn in their
C C
C C
C (
« C
C C
C C
C C
* «
“ own language.” I doubt not, but the circumſtance of carrying this gol
den ſhip, on the ſhoulders of the prieſts, is an imitation of the Moſàic ark in
the march of the Iſraelites, thro' the wilderneſs, during their forty years pil
grimage.
6o J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
grimage. Tho' they miſtook the reaſon of the thing; the fewiſh church then
being in a military and travelling ſtate. But where the camp reſted, the ark
was repoſited, in the adytum of the tabernacle: fo likewife when in poffesti
on of the land of Canaan. This is ſufficient proof, that the Lybians here
in, copied after the Iſraelites, not vice verfa, as our moderns are willing to
think, in theſe caſes.
Curtius tells us, the habit of Ammon's ſtatue was made of Smaragd and
other precious ſtones, wrought in Moſaic work. Which I take to be too, in
imitation of the pontifical attire, under Moſes's adminiſtration: particularly of
the ſacred, oracular pećtoral, made of Moſaic work, with gems. I appre
hend, that befide the statue of Ammon, there was a figure of (the upper part at
leaſt of) a ram, on the compaſs box: which was the oracle. And it is eaſy to
gueſs how this may be managed for the purpoſe; even beyond the trick of
fanuarius's blood, and other Popiſh devices.
Hence we may better underſtand the famous golden fleece, which occaſion
ed the Argonautic expedition, one of the earlieſt and moſt memorable Æra's
of the Grecian hiſtory. If we ſuppoſe this golden fleece to be a compaſs box,
we ſee the reaſon why the choice youth of Greece fet out upon that voyage:
which, as all other matters of ancient hiſtory, among the Greeks, is fo unac
countably puft up with the leaven of fable. It became navigators to run any
hazard for ſuch a treaſure. If we enquire into its origin, it is thus. Phrixus
fon of Athamas and Nepheles (according to the Greeks) had a ſhip given him
by his mother. The ſhip is call'd in the fable a golden ram, or the ram with
a golden fleece (the fame thing as Hercules's golden cup.) In this, he and his
fifter Helle, flying the ill-ufage of their mother-in-law Ino, fail away by fea.
Helle affrighted in the voyage, falls overboard and gives name to the Helleſpont.
Phrixus continues the voyage, and goes to Æetes king of Colchis, where he
hangs up his golden ram in the temple, to fupiter Phyxius, (one would be
apt to imagine they meant Pyxius, alluding to the box.) faſon made his far
fam'd expedition thither afterward, and ſtole it. But the ram was placed in
the heavens, among the conſtellations, as a mcmorial; the firſt fign in the Zo
diac: which ſhews the high antiquity of the ſtory.
This account manifeſtly pretends very great antiquity, and fome fignal
event. I obſerve this Imo their mother-in-law, is faid to be the nurfe of Bac
chus, and throwing herſelf with her ſon Melicerte into the fea, became a god
deſs, under the name of Leucothea. Her fon became a god, under the name
of Palaemon. This Melicerte is allowed by all the learned, to be no other than
our Melcartus above-mention'd. Palæmon is Hercules, fays Helýchius. . Pa
læmon is his name of deification. Paufanias in the beginning of his corinthi
aca informs us, this apotheofis of Ino and Melicerta was the occafion offounding
the famous Isthmiangames. Plutarch faysthe fame, and Phavorinus. Again,
I obſerve, Phrixus is faid to be fon of Nephele (a cloud) whence call'd nubige
na by Columella. We muſt hence expećt ſomewhat very ſecret and obſcure.
Further, all writers ſay openly this ram or ſhip of Phrixus was oracular and
could ſpeak upon occafion. So all the writers of the Argonautics too will
have the ſhip Argos to be loquacious and oracular. Magnes another name of
the load-ſtone is often call'd Adamas, which ſeems to be no other than Atha
mas. Apollodorus makes Magnes the fon of Æolus, who marrying Nais, inha
bited the iſle Seriphus. Æolus was a great failor, invented fails, and ſtudied
the winds, therefore deified and made the god of the winds. I ſuppoſe it all
ends in the myſterious invelopement of the knowledge of the magnetic com
aſs.
P I hope for the readers candour, in reciting thus much from antient fable,
which I did as conciſely as poſſible. But in matters of obſcure antiquity, we
muſt make uſe of all helps. And in heathen antiquity we have no other. A
ftrićtly hiſtorical way of writing in former times, is only to be expećted
2 2CTC
|
-
Põ0. TAB.XXXI
|
|
||
|
i
§
||
r.2:
*2
",
2
2
%
Tr.
|
|
|
||
.
-
%
|
|
%
|
|
-
|
AT
i.
D E s C R I B E D. 6I
facred canon of the fetes. And what is remarkable, after God's holy fpirithad
deferted them, their writers became the greateſt fablers in the world, and, if
poſſible, out-did the Greeks, in that way.
One would imagine, the faſhion of theſe moſt antient charts, was to divide
the circle into 12 parts, and affix the celeſtial figns of the zodiac to them; be
ginning with the eaſt at aries, where the fun rifes at the equinoxes; and thence
they might call the box by the name of aries, as fhewing the eaſt where aries
is plac'd. As now the Turks and Arabians call it kibla noma, i. e. ſhewing
the kibla, or fouth point, the way toward which they turn their faces in devo
tion. So we only enquire for the north point; and call it the lode-ſtone, be
cauſe it fhews the lode-ſtar or north pole. But'tis all one; any one point in a
circle being found, the reſt are found too.
From what has been ſaid, it ſeems probable, that the fable of the hero find
ing out the ſpring in the fandy defarts of Africa, by the help of a ram fent from
fupiter, means the travelling over thoſe immenſe plains by the help ofa com
afs, which they call'd by the name ofa ram, or a golden ram. And that the
ofeſſors of the antient oracle of Ammon had fuch a ſecret, which they cun
ningly applied to the ſacreds of their deity. Probably, in that moſt early age,
they had not improv'd the uſe of it to the pitch and manner that we enjoy, with
a needle; and that fet upon a central pin: but having found out the verticity of
the magnet, they put it into a boat, which was to ſwim on water, and therein
it would have liberty to turn itſelf to its proper direćtion. And this is the fen
timent of the learned Dr. Wallis, in the Philoſophical Tranfàéfions, No. 278.
This boat was the better a handle for the mythologiſts to call Hercules's veffel a
golden cup, becauſe cups were made in the ſhape of a boat, and had the fame
denomination, cymbium.
Thoſe learned commentators upon Curtius abovementioned agree, there
was a ſtone along with the ſtatue of Ammon, carried about in the golden
fhip; and perhaps, hence the antient navigators took the hint of applying the
figure of the ram to their compaſſes, however form'd, and gave it the name of
the ram, or golden fleece, which the Greek fables, their moſt antient hiſtory,
ring of: and hence their fhips deriv'd their oracular quality. Phrixus's ſhip,
the golden ram, being faid to ſpeak on occafion, as well as the ſhip argos. The
ftupendous properties of this ſtone, without difficulty, would perſuade even
thoſe above the vulgar, that there was a divine principle in it, quite metaphy
fical, conſequently oracular. And in the dawnings of idolatry, the evil agent
who was vigilant to pervert every thing to his own purpoſe, would not fail to
make great uſe of the ſecrets of the magnet. The intire notion of oracles a
mong the heathen, is cauſed by the devil's mimickry of God's tranſaćtions a
mong the patriarchs and the fews. But I believe the Egyptians took their no
tion of carrying a boat in all their religious proceflions, from this magnetic boat,
of which both Herodotus and Plutarch inform us. For they intended it to fig
nify the movement and deſcent of the divine ideas from the ſupreme mind; e
fpecially the very fountain and principal of thoſe ideas: and it muſt be own'd
to be admirably well chofe. Hence the top and the bottom of the verge or
limbus of the celebrated I/iac table, is adorn'd with a boat. In one a ram, in
the other a bull. Meaning the origin of the chain of ideas flowing from the
divine mind. ’Tis highly probable, that with the ram is the copy of fupiter
Ammon's boat, mention'd by Curtius. And I ſuppoſe this is Herwart's opini
on, but I have not yet ſeen his book. Of this I ſhall diſcourſe larger in my
explication of the Bembin table. However Herodotus tells us in his II. book,
that the temple of fupiter Ammon took its rife from Phænicia. I only men
tion this for the fake of thoſe that are over aćting the credit of antiquities in
Egypt.
learn in Plutarch's diſcourſe de Ifid. & Oſir, that the ſhip argos of the
Greeks, was in reality the ſhip that our Hercules fail'd round the world in.
R Further,
62 s 7' 0 N E H E N G E
Further, this oracular ſhip has its name argos, fays my friend Mr. Baxter, giff.
ant. rom. from the Hebrew and Syrian word argan, an ark. Which confirms
what I faid above, concerning the carrying about the ſhip of Ammon on the
fhoulders of the prieſts. Strabo in II. of his geography, mentions the temple
of Leucothea, built by Phrixus at Colchos ; that there was an oracle there; and
that the ſheep was never flain at the place. This fhews its relation to that of
fupiter Ammon. Leucothea is the name of conſecration of Hercules his mother,
Hercules himſelf being call'd Palaemon; both made ſea deities: from the ex
traordinary fame of Hercules, the firſt and great fea captain. Pauſànias in Af
ticis ſays, he was buried in the Corinthian Isthmus; where the Isthmian games
were kept to his memory. But Mela writes, that his remains were at Gades.
It's probable there was only an honorary monument of him at the Isthmus, as
founder: as the honorary monument of folaus mention'd to be among the The
#ans, by the Stadium, p. 42.
Mr. Baxter in gloff. ant. rom. v. afċania makes Phrixus to be Aphricus, and
the fame perſon as fupiter Ammon, or thefounder ofthe temple of fupiter Am
mon; rather, of that prior to fupiter Ammon. We are not to regard the little
artificesof the Greeks, who draw all celebrated events and perſons of antiquity,
into their own country. Apbricus, no doubt, is the Aphre before-mentioned,
fon of Midian, fon of Abraham; whom Cleodemus makes an aſſociate of Her
cules, in his Lybian wars. foſephus makes him the conqueror of Lybia, and
that he gave name to Africa. "Tis not unlikely but that he is the hero that tra
vell'd over theſe barren ſands by the help of the compaſs, as hiscountrymen the
Arabians have from times immemorial praćtifed, in travelling over their own
defarts. And might probably erećt a patriarchal temple there; and in times of
his posterity it degenerated into the idolatrous temple of fupiter Ammon. And
there the compaſs box of the hero remain'd, and was converted into part of the
heathen ſacreds.
"Tis no very ſtrange matter, if they at another time call this fame heró Bac
chus, therein confounding him with the like travels of the Iſraelites, through
the Arabian defarts. We are not to expećt theſe hiſtories of old times involv'd
in fable, abſolutely confiſtent. But if this account be agreeable to truth or near
it; then we may imagine the fame Aphre, by the Greeks call'd Phrixus, accord
ing to Mr. Baxter, paſs'd the Helleſpont, made the expedition into Colchis, and
built a likc templc there. And a compaſs box called the golden ram, was made
alike part ofthe objećt of their adoration. This is exceedingly confirm’d by
thereport of Herodotus and Diodorus S. who ſay, the Colchi praćtiſed the rite of
circumcifion, a matter which the learned cannot account for; but appears plain
from hence: theſe being the deſcendants of Abraham. They ſay, at the fame
time, that the Ethiopians praćtiſe the like: and that 'tis no recent cuſtom a
mong them, but from the beginning. . I apprehend by Ethiopians are meant A
rabians, who are people deſcended from Abraham. Herodotus ſays likewife
the Egyptians circumcis'd, which muſt be accounted for in this fame manner;
fome Arabian or Ethiopian nation bringing the cuſtom among them. As a
further confirmation of Phrixus being Aphricus, Bochart fhews the Colchic and
Hebrew tongue is much a-kin. And thus we may account for what Mr. Toland,
p. 133; ſays, that the idiom ofthe Iriſh language (which we ſuppoſe the rem
nant of the moſt antient oriental,) has a mixture of Arabic in it.
I ſaw a book in Dr. Mead's library, Muſeo de las medallas deſconocidas Eſpa
nolas, p. 35. Nº. 82, 83. are two ancient unknown medals, ſuch as they often
find in Spain. The firſt a head (not of the beſt workmanſhip) on the obverſe,
young, but heroical enough, a necklace on. Behind it A Þ PA in the old Phæ
nician charaćter, like the Samaritan. Reverſe a horfeman, and under the exergue
another word in like Punic charaćter. The other Nº. 83. has the fame head
in the obverſe, but without the necklace: and A H P A before, in plain Greek,
behind a dolphin. The reverſe as the laſt, There is another fuch coin in the
fame
.nav
uv/
****
***
rrrrrrrrrr
/*
/*
-----
e
2/6
7-
ayz
co
632
ev
teve
op
Żyn
enzoy
nzen)
6izozeco
'8'34
z
/)o/,
”
7;
uello
6’
ye
ya
26
zäynag/"
/2
zzzo
u
ató.zip
/
v
vez
prene/
encouvrazo
ny?
)
yvize2/3
A'ye
6
yna:
A-sateo
yzer:P
\
\
\
\
\\\\
|
|
W
\\
|
.eeyur
-
|
*
,
/’
yzaeg?
.e2ýnerv
.e.'ynuv
|
|
-
4-
-
|
•
|
D E s c R I B E D.
fame book, no difference, but the name and dolphin tranſpos'd. I veri
ly believe this is our Aphra, or Apher in our Engliſh tranſlation call'd Epher,
Gen. xxv. 4. ftruck by fome city in Spain, who acknowledged him their founder.
It is remarkable enough, what Mr. Norden writes, in his hiſtory of Corn
wall. The Corniſh men univerſally ſuppoſe that the fews are the people who
firſt work't in their rocks, for tin: and in old neglećted tin-works, they find
fome of their tools. , The workmen call them attal farazin, the fews caſt off
works, in their Hebrew ſpeech, ſays Norden. Now I apprehend he means
our Arabians: and it is a circumſtance confirming the former notions. And
to it we may refer the origin of the odd reports, of our Stonehenge coming from
Africa and the like. By the Greeks, Hercules Melcartus or Melicerta, and
Phrixus or Apricus are made halfbrothers: by foſephus, Hercules is fon-in-law
to Aphricus. The Phænicians paid tythe. So the Arabians, in Pliny, the
like: being patriarchal cuſtoms.
Aphricus or Phryxus we may very well ſuppoſe to be father of the Phrygians.
And his expedition thro' the propontis to the Euxine fea, the Greeks colour
over with their Helle and Helleſpont. But we cannot entertain too high a re
fpećt for him, becauſe I fee it no leſs reaſonable, to refer the origin of the Bri
tons to him. I mean that eaſtern colony that came hither with Hercules, upon
the old poſſeſfors or aborigines Albionites, which gave the more famous name of
Britainto the iſland. The Brigantes is the fame name, ſays Mr. Baxter the com
mon and more ancient name of this people: who being driven northwards by
inundations of foreigners from the continent in after times, the name became
more appropriate to the inhabitants of Yorkſhire and the neighbouring counties.
In Tacitus the Brigantes are called maxima Brittanorum natio. At the fame
time they forc'd the ancienteſt poffeſfors, the Albionites or Albanians ſtill more
northwards. Likewife many of theſe Brigantes paſs'd into Ireland, where
they became a famous nation. The Bryges, Phryges, Phrixi, Bristnes, Bri
gantes, Britones are intirely ſynonimous words in different dialećts. And this
affignment of the origin of our anceſtors, very well accounts for that notion
of their Phrygian or Trojan deſcent, fo riveted in the minds of the old Britons.
A notion which prevail'd among fome of the Gallic nations on the continent,
and they had retain'd the memory of it, in the time of Ammianus Marcelli
nus, who mentions it. Likewife in Caeſar's time, fome Gallic nations, claim
ed kindred with the Romans; probably upon this very account.
This is, in ſhort, fome preſumptive evidence we have, of Hercules and
Aphricus planting Britain, introducing the Druidswith the patriarchal religion:
and concerningthe knowledge they had of the uſe of the compaſs. This whole
matter will be further confidered, when I come to treat of it exprefily. At
preſent we will continue the hiſtory of the compaſs, as it became more fully
known to the world.
Martinius in his Atlas, and Gilbertus de magnete, Lib. I. 2. ſhow us, the
Chineſê have us'd the magnetic needle from times immemorial: that they have
a trick of telling fortunes with it: as the heathen afore-mentioned made it
oracular. The Arabians likewiſe have us'd it, for travelling over the great
and wild defarts, of weeks together, where there is no track to guide
them; nor have they any notion of time when they began this praćtice.
Herwartius publiſhed admiranda ethnicae theologiae, wherein he endeavours
to prove that the old Egyptians had the uſe of the magnetic needle,
and that the Bembin table contains the doćtrine of it, invelop'd in hierogly
phicks. The learned Fuller in his Mistellanies Lib. 4. 19. afferts, that the
Phænicians knew the uſe of it, which they endeavour'd to conceal by all poſ
fible means, as they did their trading in general. That it was loft with them,
as many other arts, their ars plumaria, the dying of purple, (the invention of
our Hercules of Tyre) the Hebrew poetry, and other curious knowledge, which
is periſhed. T
”Tis
J' 7' 0 N E H E N G E
'Tis not unlikely that the lodeſtone being applied to religious ufe, was one
cauſe of its being forgot: together with the ſecrecy of the Phænician voyages.
Suetonius in Nero, ſpeaks of a prophetic needle, which the emperor us'd to pay
his devotions to. Thelearned Burman fhews, that moſt,orall oftheold MSS. and
printed books, read it acuncula, acucula, or acungula; which, in my opinion,
the criticks have caufeleſly correćted into icuncula: becauſe they had no notion
of the magnetic needle being underſtood by it.
Monfieur Fauchet, a famous French antiquary, in his antiquities of France,
quoies fome verſes from a poet in that country, who wrote A. D. I 18o. where
in is as plain a deſcription of the mariner's box, as words can make. The poet
mentions it by accident, not as a thing new and ſtrange. Q/orius in his dif
courſe of the aćts of king Emanuel, refers the uſe of the compaſs among the
Europeans, to Gama and the Portugueſe, who found it among fome barbarous
pyrates, about the Cape of Good Hope ; who probably were fome remains of
the old Phænicians, or Arabians, or at leaft have preferved from them, this
praćtice. About A. D. 126o. Paulus Venetus is faid to have brought it from
China; by the great author on the magnet, our countryman Gilbert. Gene
brand in his chron. fays, theuſe of the lode-ſtone reviv'd among us about A. D.
13o3. by Fl. Melvius a Neapolitan, and others attribute it about that time to
fohn Goia a Neapolitan. . foſeph de Costa fays, fome Mahometan ſeamen whom
/a/guez de Gama met with near Moſambick, who had fail'd thoſe ſeas by the
uſe thereof, taught it him. I obſerve our ancient Britons, the Welſh, call a
fteers-man or pilot llywydd, whence no doubt comes our Engliſh word lode
ftone, and lode-ſtar, the north-pole. Llyw is the helm of a ſhip in Briti/h.
Lodemanage in Skinner's etymology an old Engliſh word, ſignifying the price
paid to the pilot. Our lords of the Cinque Ports keep a court at Dover, by
that name. Theſe things ſeem to indicate fome memorial of the magnet left
among the Welſh, from the oldeſt times: and of its application to failing.
Thus have we given a kind of hiſtory of this prodigy in nature, the magne
tic needle: to confirm our ſuſpicion, that the Britiſh Druids knew the uſe of
it, and uſed it in theſe works of theirs, which we have been treating of We
learn in the Philoſophical Tranfäčtions, Lowthorp, Vol. II. p. 6o 1. that there are
confiderable veins of the magnet, in our own country, in Devonſhire; where
the Phaenicians and Druids must needs be very converſant.
We return now to our firſt ſubjećt Stonehenge, and apply what has been faid,
to the obſervation we there made. It is not to be thought, that the Druids,
men who employed themſelves in thoſe noble ſtudies, which Caeſar gives us
an account of, and who were at the pains of bringing theſe vaſt ſtones to
gether, from ſuch a confiderable diſtance of 16 miles: I ſay, it is not to be
thought, but that they would be nice and exaćt in placing them. And this,
not only particularly, in reſpećt of each other, upon the projećted ground
plot: but alſo in general, in reſpećt of the quarters of the heavens. And this
I found to be a juſt furmiſe, when I examined their works for feveral years to
gether, with ſufficient accuracy, with a theodilite. As I took notice before,
the works of one place regarded the cardinal points, but with a certain uni
form variation therefrom. Whence I grounded my conjećture, that they were
fet by a compaſs, which at that time varied, according to that quantity ob
ferv'd. Of which property of variation we may well ſuppoſe, the Druids
were ignorant. This I now propoſe for the rule of investigation, of the time
when Stonehenge was erećted. Hoping the reader will judge as favourably of
the attempt, as things of this great antiquity require.
The variation at Stonehenge is about 6 or 7 degrees, from the north eaſt
ward. I have in order to form our hypotheſis, fet down a ſcheme of the state
of the variation in England, from the beſt obſervations I could meet with.
Dr. Hally takes notice, that the variation at Paris is always 2 degreesand a half
- - 1Il O1 C
S
--|
|
v
|
2
É
4%
%
| %
\\\\\'
| \
\\
yw
is " \\ \ \ \ \
" " \\ \ ;
*
.*
\\ N \ \ e
* \\ \ \ \
',
-
\ \ *',
|- - - - \\ \,\* y
* ,
\ \\
, !
|
-
\\ \ \\ \\ |
\,: § V v \\
* , \ \
W
*
-
,t\\
||
|
-
D E S C R I B E D.
more easterly than with us. . Orontius Finæus in 155o obſerv'd it to be there,
about 9 degrees, eaſterly, therefore to reduce it, I have ſtated it at 1 1 degrees
3o. and from thence continued it, to the preſent time, as in the enſuing table,
Anno Dom. Obſervation. Variation.
deg, min.
I 55O By Finaeus * 3o eaſt.
158o – Mr. Burroughs I I I 5 eaſt.
16oo – 8 o eaſt.
1622 – Mr. Gunter 6 o eaſt.
1634 – Mr. Gellibrand 4 5 eaſt.
1642 – – 3 5 eaſt. - - - -
1657 – Mr. Bond – O O
1665 Mr. Bond – I 22 weſt.
1666 – Capt. Sturmy I 27 weſt.
1667 Capt. Sturmy – I 33 weſt.
1672 – Dr. Halley 2 3o weſt.
1683 – 4 3o weſt.
1685 – 5 5 weft.
1692 – 6 o weſt.
1723 – I I o weſt.
I733 –- 12 o weſt.
174o – 15 45 weſt.
By this table it appears, that in the ſpace of 18o years, the variation of
the magnetic needle in England, has ſhifted from 1 1 degrees and a half eaſt
ward, to 1 1 degrees and a half weſtward. In 9o years the medium of thoſe
extremes, which was 1657, there was no variation at all; the needle pointing
due north and ſouth. But alas our obſervations extend no farther. We know
not the bound of the variation, on either hand: nor the quantity of its moti
on, when thereabouts. Mr. Geo. Graham thinks it is now near the weſtern
bound. It is very flow, in all probability, when upon the return, and as
it were, ſtationary: like the fun's inotion at the tropics, when it is returning.
So that the nice determination of its circle, and of its motion, is referved
for remote poſterity. Dr. Halley conjećtures, that the whole period of varia
tion, is perform’d in about 7oo years. Upon this ſuppoſition, in groſs, we
we may thus found our conjećture, of the time of building of Stonehenge.
By what we can find, the variation is about 9 minutes in a year, or a de
gree and a half in Io years, at this part of its circle. Now I obſerv'd at Stone
henge, that the eaſtern wing of the avenue, the curſus and other parts belonging
to the temple, abated fomewhat in their variation, eastward, being ſomewhat
leſs than that of the temple itſelf. It is highly reaſonable to believe, that the
great work of Stonehenge could not take leſs than half a ſcore years in build
ing: and that thoſe other works were made in ſucceeding years, not long af
ter it was finiſhed. From hence I gather, which way the magnetic variation
was moving, at the time of founding Stonehenge, viz. from eaſt toward no
variation and fo to weſt. This muft be the foundation of our calculus.
Therefore at the time of the founding of Stonehenge, the variation was about
the fame quantity and place, as abont A. D. 162o. in our preceeding table.
Suppofing with Dr. Halley, the revolution of this variation be about 7oo years,
three intire revolutions thereof, bring us to about the year of the city of Rome
28o. which is about 46o years before our Saviour's time: 42o years before
Ceſar invaded Britain. About 1oo years before our Saviour's birth, Divitia
cus made the Wan/dike north of Stonehenge, and drove the pofeſſors of this
fine country of the Wiltſhire downs, northwards. So that the Druids enjoy
ed their magnificent work of Stonehenge, but about 36o years, And the very
S great
–- = k.
66 S 7' 0 N E H E N G E, &c.
great number of barrows about it, requires, that we ſhould not much ſhorten
the time. Sir Iſaac Newton in his Chronology, reckons 19 years for a medium
of a king's reign. So that in that ſpace, there were about 19 kings, in this
country. And there ſeems to be about that number of royal barrows (in my
way of conjećturing) about the place.
I obſerve, this time we have affign'd for the building of Stonehenge, is not
long after Camby/ểs's invaſion of Egypt. When he committed fuch horrid
outrages there, and made ſuch diſmal havock, with the prieſts and inhabitants
in general, that they fled the country to all parts of the world. Some went
as far as the East Indies, and there taught many of the antient Egyptian
cuſtoms; as is taken notice of by the learned. It is not to be doubted that
fome of them fled as far weftward, into the iſland of Britain, and introduced
fome of their learning, arts and religion, among the Druids; and perhaps had
a hand in this very work of Stonehenge: the only one that I know of, where
the ftones are chizel'd. All other works of theirs, are of rude ftones, un
touch'd of tool, exaćtly after the patriarchal and fewiſh mode: therefore
older.
This was at a time, when the Phænician trade was at height, the readier a
conveyance to Britain: it was before the fecond temple at feruſalem was built:
before the Grecians had any hiſtory.
Dire8?ions to fhe binder.
All the half ſheet plates are to be bound up with the book, as fingle leaves,
according to their pages, and without guards, viz. Plate, Nº. 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8,
9, Io, 12, 14, 15, 16, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 3o, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35.
Thoſe Plates, No. 11, 17, 19, 2 I, are to be once folded in the middle, and
bound up with guards. Thoſe Plates, Nº. 3, 5, 13, 18, 2o, 22, are to be
folded in three parts, and bound up with guards. . -
I N D E X.
/
P
|
|
66. TABxxxiiii.
a.
|
---
|
|
%
-•
----*-Ē=
||
*
* -
*
|
P68. TAB.XXXV.
~
N.
N
-
|
È ặrs
È Rēšē§
's Riss assa | ž, F
—
H
-
=
ss
RR§
|
§ = |
|||||
| –
x
=ti
-
-sss-|§.|§Š§§'ss
||
\
~#*
Tonehenge the latest of the Druid temples, Page 1, 17, 66
Older than the time of the Saxons and Danes, I, 2, 3, 7, 47
Older than the time of the Roman Britons, - I, 2, 32
Older than the time of the Belgæ, who preceded the Roman invaſon, 4, 8, 9, 47
The history of the Belgæ feated about Stonehenge, in Cæſar's time, 4, 8, 47
Our Welſh the remains of the Belgæ, 8
The Cimbrians the fame, 48
Of the Wanfdike: made by Divitiacus, 4, 47
Of Veſpaſian's camp Ambreſbury, 4
The stones of Stonehenge are from the gray weathers on Marlborough a
5, 47
Of their nature, magnitude, weight, 5, 6
Of their number, - 3o
Mr. Webb's drawings of Stonehenge falê, 3, 22, 25
Abſurd to compare the work to Roman or Grecian orders, 6, Io, 16, 2o, 2 I, 28
The cell not form’d from three equilateral triangles, 3, 18, 24, 33
But one entrance into the area, 3, 18, 23, 33
He makes one /fde of the cellout of a bit of a looſe stone, 29
He has turn'd the cell a/ixth part from its true/ituation, 3, 22
The cell not a hexagon, but an oval, 2O, 22, 29
Demonstratedby Lord Pembroke's meafüre, 28
Demonstrated by trigonometry, 22
Proved by the fürgeons amphitheater, London, being an imitation thereof, 25
Stonehenge not made by the Roman foot, 6
Webb makes the inner circle, of thirty stones, instead of forty, 2O
He contrač7s I 19 feet to 43, 33
He draws a/tone on the vallum 12o foot out of its true place, I4
Stonehenge not a monument, 4Q
The Druids came with an oriental colony, upon thefirst Celtic inhabitants, 62, 63
Introduc'd bere by the Tyrian Hercules, 7, 31, 32, 59, 52, 55, 63
The colony were Phoenicians or Arabians, 63, 66
They found out our tin mines, - 32, 55, 63
The Druids camebither about Abraham's time orfon after, 2, 7, 31, 32, 4° ;2
bey
I N D E X.
They were ofthe patriarchal religion, Page 1, 2, 17
Which was the fame as christianity, e 2, 54
Stonehenge prov'd the work of the Druids from the infinite number of the like,
all over the Britannic i/les, 3»
Farther fuggestions : becauſe accounted Jacred, made by magic, medicinal, came
from Ireland, Spain, Afric, Egypt. In fôme places the name of Druids re
maining, 3, 5, 9, 47, 48
From the antiquities dug up about them, 4, 45, 46
Schetland istes the Hyperboreans of the Greeks, thence Abaris the Pythagorean
philoſopher, 4O
Stonehenge not built by the Saxons, deducedfrom its name, 7, 47
Demonstrated to be older than Roman times, 9, IO
Such in countries never conquered by the Romans, 3
Stonehenge and/itch works built by the Phoenician colony, 8, 9, 32, 49
The cathedral of the Arch-Druid, 8, Io, 32
Called antiently the Ambres, 9, 47
Thence Veſpaſian's camp, and Ambreſbury nam'd, 49
Stonehenge call'd choir gaur: thegreat church or cathedral, 4, 47
Made with mortai/è and tenon, unuſual with the Romans, I
Made by the ancient Hebrew, Phoenician cubit, 6, 12, 28
Its proportion to our foot, 6, II, 15, 26, 3o, 32
The ancient decem-pedum, I 2
The Druids were geometricians, 16, 18, 27, 42
Knew the uſe of the compa/s, 57, 63
They carried a little ax to cut down mi/letoe, 39, 48
The Druids letter, 3 I, 54
The patriarchal temples were open, 19, 23, 39, 39, 40, 46, 52, 54, 58.
Moſes's tabernacle the first cover’d temple, 23, 24, 58
Patriarchaltemples, 19, 40, 46, 5o, 5 i, 54
Of rude/tones, ú.ncbizel'd, 66
The kehla, 24, 3O, 4O,
Had no statues, 4, 39, 4 #
Patriarchal altars, 30, 50, 52
Their temples fronted the east, 35
Their temples were confecrated and endowed, 52
Paying tythe, 52, 55
Bowing, a part of worſhip, 33, 34.
They officiated barefooted, 55
They praćřiſed chastity, before officiating, ibid.
The priests wore white linen furplices at the timeof officiating, 24, 55
Theirpublick devotion was call'dpraying, or invoking, in the NAME, 52
They believ'dafuture state, 3 I
They gave notice of religiousfestivals byfire, 37
Thoſe were the quarterly fàcrifices, ibid.
The manner of Jacrificing, 34, 54.
They us'd waterför purification, I I, I 3, 14, 34.
Of the water vafes at Stonehenge, I I, I 3, I4,
The stone table 8 3, 14 :
Of thestones and cavities on the vallum, II, I4
Crwm-lechen, bowingstones, 33, 34
Human
:
I N D E X.
Human facrifices, Page 54
Heathen imitations of the Jews, 46, ôo, 62
Main Ambres, rocking stones, gygonia, petræ ambroſiæ, Bæthylia, 18, 49,
59, 5 I, 52, 54
Ambrofia what? 5 I, 52
Horned, anointed, analogous to ſacred, conſecrated, 52, 59
The time when Hercules lived, 52, 53, 58
Hercules built patriarchaltemples, where-ever hecame, 54, 57
Probably be made the Main Ambre by Penfans, and Biſcawoon, 54.
Perſepolis a patriarchal temple, 19, 46
Of the avenue of Stonehenge, 35, 39
Of its two wings, 35, 38, 41, 57
Eastern wing, its variation, 36, 56, 57, 64, 65
Of the Hippodrom or Curſus, 13, 41, 56
Its variation, 42, 57
The Romans borrowed the Britiſh chariots, 42
The eastern meta, its variation, 57
Other like works, in other parts of England, 43
The via Iceniana, 9
Of the barrows or/pulchral tumuli, 43
Druid barrows, IO, 4#
Arch-Druids barrows, 3
Urn burial, 44, 46
The bodies lay morth and/ºuth, 45
Beads of amber, gla/s, gold, &c. found, ibid.
Horfes, dogs, and other animals buried with them, 46
Carvilius's tomb, 4, 44, 46
The magneticalcompa/s known to Hercules, the Phoenicians and Arabians, 57
The oracle of Jupiter Ammon hada compaß, 59, 6 I, 62
The golden fleece was a compa/s, 6o, 62
How the compa/s wasforgot, 55, 58, 63, 64
Apher grand/on of Abraham, companion of Hercules, from Arabia, 53, 62, 63
Hegave name to Africa andto Britain, 53, 62, 63
A/theme of the variation of the compaß, 65
A conječturether from, when Stonehenge wasfounded, 65
F I AV I S.
