{"name":"New And Complete Illustration Of Occult Sciences","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1790__sibley___new_and_complete_illustration_of_occult_sciences.pdf","mytitle":"New And Complete Illustration Of Occult Sciences","mylang":"de"}
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
z
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.7
/
v
v
w
v
v
.
i
i
d
u
n
i
l
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/c
n
_
L
t;b
b
_u
b
fc:-w
-p
u
-y
u
u
y
it;
I L
N E w A
N
D c 0 M P L E T E
L u s T R A T I O N
0 F THE . ; ' A P p / x _____
u L T S C l E N C E S:
0 R
, THE
Art of foretelling future Events and Contingencies,
B Y T H E
A s p e c t s , P o s i t i o n s , and I n f l u e n c e s , of the HEAVENLY BODIES.
F O U N D E D O N
Natural Philofophy, Scripture, Reafon, and the Mathematics.
I N F O U R P A R T S .
P ART I.
AN Enquiry into, and Defence of, Aftrology; with an interefting Difcourfe on Natural and Occult Philofophy—in which
the Wifdoin and Omnipotence of Godj the intellectual Faculties of Angels, Spirits, and Men; the Order, Harmony,
Sympathy, and wonderful Properties, of the Celeftial and Terrcllrial Worlds; the Signs, Influences, and ElfeCIs, of the
Heavenly Bodies upon all animal, vegetable, and mineral, Subftanccs ; the Numberof the Spheres; the Method of erect­
ing the Horofcopc to caft Nativities; and the Doctrine of Horary Qtidtions; are clearly exemphlied and explained.
P A R T II.
EXAMPLES for acquiring a Practical Knowledge of Aflrology, with Rules for calculating, rectifying, and judging, Na­
tivities; by which the Reader is enabled to difeove^yuh Prcciflon and Accuracy, every material Incident of his future
Life and Fortune, illuftrated by a Variety 6f new, entertaining, and curious, Qucftions, lately refolved, upon every ma­
terial Occurrence in public and private Life. With a Collection of the mod remarkable Nativities that have been caft for
Kings, Princes, and other eminent Men, by the mull celebrated Profellors of this Science, in all Ages of the World;
with aftonifliing lnftances of their exaCt Completion.
P A R T III.
METEOROLOGICAL Aftrology defined and explained : Wherein certain Rules are laid down for prejudging the Revo­
lutions, Viciflitudes, and Misfortunes, with which every Part of the habitable World may be occafionally threatened.
General EffeCts produced by great Conjunctions, Eclipfes, Tranfits, Comets, Blazing Stars, and other extraordinary
Phenomena ; with the Art of calculating Eclipfes, Tides, and Weather, for any Number of Years to come. To which
is added, A Collection of improved TABLES, contrived to anfwer all the Purpofes of Aftronomical Calculations.
P A R T IV.
THE DiftinCtion between Aftrology and the Diabolical Practice of Exorcifm ; in which the Methods ufed for raifing up
and confulting Spirits are laid open, with various inftances of their Compacts with wicked Men. Account of Appa­
ritions and Spirits ; including a general Difplay of the Myfterics of Witchcraft, Divination, Charms, and Necromancy.
Compiled froma Series of intenfe Study and Application, andfounded'on real Examples and Experience.
A
icrfxo
v riA
iict^of lywq;
H $£Cty(jiQ* rtvoi£a{,---- ARGOL. AsTR. Lib. ii. C. 8.
Tie Sun, Moon, and Stars, hath God dijlributed unto all Nations under Heaven. They declare the Glory of God, andJhewforth
his Iiandyzvork ' Day and Night do continually tell of them, and their Voice is heard in all Languages, and their Words arc
gone into the E ids of the Earth.----- Dent. iv. 19. Pfal. xix. 1—5.
By E B E N E Z E R S I B L Y , Fellow 6 f the Harmonic Philofophical Society at P A R I S .
Embellifhed with Curious C O P P E R - P L A T E S .
L O N D O N :
PRINTED FOR THE PROPRIETOR, AND SOLD BY C. STALKER, No. 4, STATIONERY COURT,
LUDGATE-STREET. MDCCXCV
Digitized by Go stfe
a*
Original from
M P / i t v n e v d i mi 1r i i r r a b v
-V
Digitized by
THE HEW YORK •
PUBLIC LIBRA!’.', ,
8 2 7 2 6 6
A STO R, LE N O X A ND
T I L D E N F O U N D A T IO N .,
R 1918 L
4
Google - _Original from
V
«■ ——
. ----
M
PA
/ vnut' D
l IPI
D E D I C A T I O N .
To the Ancient and Honourable Fraternity
of Free and Accepted MASONS,
Gentlemen and Brethren,
T
HE Antiquity of your excellent Fraternity, the
univerfality of its plan, and the moral rectitude
and purity of its defign, claim a decided pre-eminence
over every other Bond of Society into- which mankind
have ever formed themfelves, for the mutual welfare and
happinefs of each other. The noblenefs of £oul which
firft prompted to its inftitution, and the benevolence of
heart which has ever fince prevailed throughout all its
members, will remain a fubje£t of lafting admiration I
To you, therefore, as the promoters of liberal fcnti-
ment, and the guardians of every ufeful fcience, I com­
mit this venerable pile of ancient Aftrology; a fabric
obvioufly conftrufted by the Great Architect of the
World, primeval with the Ordination of nature, and in-
feparable from one of the grand fubjefts of your official
contemplation.
This Science, by being little known, and lefs under-
llood, may meet with cenfure and difapprobation from
that dcfcription of learned, as well as of illiterate men,
whole.
Original from
MDVA/ v n o f c ' Dl ID I Ir I ID D A D V
Digitized by Google
D E D I C A T I O N .
whole rule of faith uniformly keeps pace with their own
arbitrary conceptions. But the difpaffionate part of man­
kind, with every good Mafon, will candidly weigh the
evidence “ by the balance of the SanCtuary,” and referve
their fentence till after a fair and impartial trial.
Sheltered, therefore, under the wing of your fraternal
regard, and patronized by every (ober admirer of the
fecret works of Nature, I (hall attempt to lay the Foun­
dation Stone of an illuftrious Building, facred to Urania,
upon which lome more able and ingenious Workman,
fanCtioned by your patronage and protection, may here­
after raile the edifice to out-top the Ikies, and, like Ja­
cob’s ladder, pierce the (tarry regions, leading the intel­
lectual faculties of the foul to the mod fublime contem­
plations of God and Nature.
I have the honour to profefs myfelf, with unequivocal
attachment and efteem,
Gentlemen,
Your Accepted Brother,
And faithful Servant,
E. S I B L Y ,
Portsmouth Common,
In the Year of Mafonary, 5784;
Original from
fc
irriA
#vrtDi/ midi ir 11
P D A D V
T O T H E
YOUNG STUDENT in ASTROLOGY.
M y F r i e n d ,
W
H O E V E R thou art, that fhalt with fo much
eafe receive the benefit of my laborious ftudies,
and doft intend to proceed in acquiring this heavenly
knowledge of the Stars, wherein the great and admirable
works of the invifible and all-glorious God are ma’
ni-
feftly apparent, in the firft place confider and adore thy
omnipotent C REATO R, and be thankful unto him for
thy exiftence. Be humble, and let no natural knowledge,
how profound and tranfcendent foever it be, elate thy
mind, or withdraw thee from thy duty to that divine
Providence, by whofe all-feeing order and appointment,
all things heavenly and earthly have their conftant and
never-ceafing motion; but the more thy knowledge is
enlarged by this comprehenfive fcience, the more do thou
magnify the power and wifdom of the Almighty God, and
ftrive topreferve thyfelf in his favour; having in conftant
remembrance, that the more holy thou art, and the
nearer thou approached to God in thy religious duties,
the purer judgment (halt thou always give. Beware of
pride and felf-conceit, yet never forget thy dignity. Re­
flea
Digitized by Google Original from
t i r u i v / A n 1
/ m i n i I f " ' I I D D A D V
( V
i )
fle& often on the primeval ftate of thy creation, that
thou waft formed in the perfect image of God, and that
no irrational creature durft offend Man, the Microcofm>
but did faithfully ferve and obey him, fo long as he was
mafter of his reafbn and paflions, or until he fuffered his
own Free-Will to be governed by the unreafonable part.
But alas ! when the firft father of us all gave up the reins
to his difobedient affe&ions, and deferted his reafon
and his God, then every creature and beaft of the field
became rebellious and difobedient to his command. Stand
faft then, O Man I to thy integrity, and thy religion !
confider thy own noblenefs, and that all created things,
both prefent and to come, were for thy fake created; nay,
for thy fake, even God became man 1 Thou art that crea­
ture, who, being converfant with Chrift, liveft and con­
verted: above the heavens. How many privileges and ad­
vantages hath God beftowed on thee ! thou ranged; above
the heavens by contemplation, and conceived; the motion
and magnitude of the Starsthou talked: with angels;
yea, with God himfelf: thou haft all creatures within thy
dominion, and keepeft the Devils in fubje&ion. Thy ca­
pacity for acquiring knowledge is unlimited by thy Ma­
ker ; and the bleffednefs of an enlightened mind will bring
thee the confolations of joy and happinefs— Do not then,
for fhame, deface thy nature, nor make thyfelf unworthy
of
Original from
MClAf v r \ D is m m i i S' I i n n / i n u
Digitized by Gckgle
( vii )
of thefe celeftial gifts; do not deprive thyfelf of the power
and glory God hath allotted thee, for the poffeflion of a
few imperfect, vain, and illulory, pleafures.
j
W hen thou haft perfected the contemplation of thy
God, and confidered the extent of thofe faculties with
which thou art endued, thou wilt be fit to receive the
following inftru&ion, and to know in thy practice how
to conduct thyfelf.— As thou wilt daily converfe with the
heavens, ft> inftnnft and form thy mind according to the
image of divinity. Learn all the ornaments of virtue, and
be fufficiently inftru&ed therein. Be humane, courteous,
familiar to all, and eafy of accefs. not the unfor­
tunate with the terrors of a fevere fate; in fuch cafes, in­
form them of their hard fortune with fympathetic concern;
dire£t them to call upon God to divert the judgments im­
pending over them; to fummon up all their fortitude, and
to endeavour to remove the threatened evil, by a manly
exercife of that free-will with which the all-merciful God
hath endowed them. Be m^deft in converfation, and afto-
ciate with the fbber and learned. Covet not riches, but
give freely to the poor, both money and judgment. Let
no worldly confideration procure an erroneous judgment
from thee, or fuch as may difhonour this (acred fcience.
Love all thy fellow-creatures, and cherifh thofe honeft
a men
Digitized by Gck gle Original from
m p i m v n o k ' D i i m i r i i r b a b v
men who cordially embrace this Art. Be (paring in deli­
vering judgment concerning thy king and country, or of
the death of thy prince; for I know experimentally that
Regesfubjacent legibusJlellarum . Rejoice in the number
of thy friends; and avoid litigious fuits and controverfies.
In thy ftudy, be totus in i
l
/
i
s
,
that thou mayeft b
lus in a
r
t
e
. Be not extravagant in the defire of learning
every fcience; be not aliquidtantum in . Befaith­
ful and complacent; betray no one’s fecrets, I charge thee.;
never divulge the truft either friend or enemy hath commit­
ted to thy faith. Inftruft all men to live well; and be
a good example thyfelf. Avoid the falhion of the times,
its luxuries, and la(civioufne(s; but love thy country, and
be its friend. Be not difmayed, though evil (poken o f;
confcientiafrcejiat m ille t
e
j
i
i
b
u
s
.
PO ETICAL
Digitized by Google Original from
MC\A/ Dl IDI Ir I IDDAnv
uui
i
id111,
uuuyie-uiymz.eu
/
i
iLip;//vvvvvv.Nciu
nu
ubL.ui
y/dLLt;bb_ubfc:#pu-yuuyit;
P O E T I C A L
( vii )
I N V O C A T I O N
T O
U R A N I A.
D
E S C E N D , Urania, with prolific Flame,
And fpread the growing Trophies of thy Namej
Duclofe to Man a Knowledge of the Skies,
Whofe fpangling Beauties draw our wond’ring Eyes.
InftruCt young Students in their Care to know.
The ftarry Influence on all Things below ;
Unveil to them the ftrange myfterious caufe
Of thofe Effects deriv’d from Nature’s Laws ;
As fiery Meteors, Comets, Lightning, Thunder,
Eclipfes, Blazing Stars, at which Men wonder.
The boift’rous rolling of the troubled Sea ;
The daily Tides, their fov’reign Regency.
Whirlwinds, and Water-fpouts, which pleaftng Ihow .
The compound Colours of the heav’nly Bow;
W ith ev’ry occult Virtue and Attraction,
The rife, the growth, decay, and putrefaction.
Of all Sublunaries that can be found.
From noble Birth, to Herbs within the Ground.
How Fire and Water, Air and Earth, agree.
When equipois’d, in focial Harmony.
That there’s a Chain of Concord down defeends.
From lleav’n to Earth ; then back to Heav’n afeends.
By Nature {hew to fober Men of Senfe,
Orion s Bands, Pleiades’ fweet Influence;
Shew that the Stars, which trim the heav’nly Spheres,
Are fet for Signs, for Seafons, and for Years;
Which Day by Day to Man doth utter Speech,
And Night to Night this facred Knowledge teach;
That
Digitized by G O ^
Original from
MPUl Vr\Rlf Dl IDI Ir I IP RADV
( * )
That there's a Time for all Things here below:
A Time to reap, to gather in, and fow ;
A Time for Birth to Creatures God has giv'n,
A Time to View the great Expanfe of Heav’n.
W hat lhall befal us, if we’re wife to look.
Is there contain’d, as in a facred Book;
W hat moves our Inclinations, what our Wills ;
W hat gives us Health, what fubje&s us to ills;
W hat makes one wife; another raving mad ;
another thrifty, yet in rags is clad :
W hat makes one born a Beggar, and his Fate
Shall be to rife unto a great Eftate ;
Another, born in very high Degree,
Defcend therefrom, to abjedt Poverty.
What makes us merry, lovers of the Fair;
And others hate to come where’er they are.
What makes fome barren, as we daily fee.
While others fruitful are inclin’d to be.
W hat makes one chufe to change a Angle Life,
Yet grafp much Mis’ry when he takes a W ife;
And why another lhall this Path purfue,
And prove that one is not fo bleft as two.
W hat makes one travel both by Sea and Land;
While others hate to move from whence they Hand.
W hat makes one labour much for well-earn’d Praife,
While others, undeferving, wear the Bays.
What makes one Army, going forth to fight.
By one much fmaller quickly put to Flight. \
Is it not plain the ftarry Influence forces.
Ordain'd by Heav’n to adt in conflant Courfes ?
Thefe Truths unlhaken Hand within this Book,
Therefore, confider o’er the Leaves, and look ;
Where Rules enough you’ll find to Pradtice by,
In the pure Science of Aftrology.
QJJ ESTI ON S
Original from
I BM/ D I I D I Ir I I R R A R V
Digitized by Google
A N
I L L U S T R A T I O N
Of the C E L E S T I A L S C I E N C E of
• ' *
A s T R O' L O G Y.
p A R T T H E F I R S T.
S
E N S I B L E as I am of the rooted prejudices of the times, againft
the venerable fcience of Aftrology, and fenfible alfo of the reproach
and obloquy that will be levelled againft me by men of obftinate
and dogmatical principles ; I fhall neverthelefs venture, upon the bafis of
t r u t h and e x p e r i e n c e , to make this feeble effort towards reftoring a
competent knowledge of that comprehenfive fcience, which in all ages
of the world was deemed the chief ornament o/ fociety, and the diftin-
guifhing excellence of enlightened minds. It is therefore to be lamented
that the cultivation of it is become obfolete and unfafhionable; and that,
owing to the violent difturbances at the clofe of the laft century—to the
want of recent information on the fubjedt, and to the too refined notions
of modern philofophers, its congenial rays have been fo long withheld
from fhedding their divine light upon thefe kingdoms.
That an Aftrology in the Heavens does really exift, and was ordained of
God from the beginning of the world, for the immediate information and
direction of his creatures here below, is obvioufly and incontellibly proved
from various parts of thofe facred Books, which contain the unerring word
of God, and the perfedt rule of faith for every good and fober Chriftian.—
To revive the gloomy days of fuperftition, or to impofe on the untaught
multitude, precepts of ignorance, is no part of the Author’s defign.— His
aim is, to remove the mote from the eyes of prejudiced men; and by juft
reafoning, and fair argument, founded on the principles of religion and
morality, to ihew them that God is a God of order, and created nothing in
vain;—that he framed the world by number, weight, and meafure, and
fixed the whole fyftem of heavenly and earthly things upon fo perfedt and
immutable a plan, that the whole doth work harmonioufly and fympathe-
B tically
14 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
tically together, fo as to anfwer all the various purpofes for which they
were firft ordained;—that fuperiors do uniformly rule inferiors j and that
celeftial bodies fenfibly adt upon and influence all earthly fubftances, whe­
ther animal, vegetable, or mineral; not by chance or accident, but by a
regular inherent caufe, implanted in them from the beginning, by the om­
nipotence of God.
It is a maxim with perfons of a contumacious turn of mind, to confider
every thing as impoflible, that does not immediately fall within the com-
pafs of their own ideas; forgetting that the operations of Nature are as un-
fearchable as they are curious, and that the ways of God furpafs all human
comprehenfion !—and fo warped are they from every fentiment of libera­
lity, that thofe who difeover a willingnefs to receive inftrudtion, or who
differ from them in opinion, are condemned to ridicule and fcorn. But to
fliew how reprehenfible fuch condudlis, we need only refledt on the unbe­
lieving St. Thomas, and the pointed exclamation of our Saviour, upon that
occafion. Men of this untoward difpofition, will take up my book from
the impulfc of curiofity, ’till recolledting themfelves, they will tofs it
with contempt into fome obfeure corner, and upbraid its author perhaps in
terms not the moll liberal or pleafing. And yet, I am bold to fay, that
even fuch perfons, invulnerable as they may be to the force of reafon,
might foon be convinced of the purity and excellence of this Science,
would they but fora time diveft themlelves of prejudice, and impartially
weigh the evidence brought in its fupport.—Nay, I have reafon to be­
lieve, that how much foever they appear externally to condemn Aftrology,
they neverthelefs feel in their own mind, arid vainly attempt to ftifle,
an internal convidtion of its abfolute exiftence. Would they but wifely
cultivate this internal evidence, and put on the folid reafoning of dif-
paffionate men, the order of nature would then unfold itfelf to their view,
and the ltupendous works of Creation captivate their fenfes j ’till emu­
lous of attaining the moll exalted knowledge, they would feck the vaft
extent of fpace, and find the Whole canopy of heaven expanded for their
contemplation. And thus familiarized in the wonderful properties of
heavenly and earthly things, they would no longer confider Aftrology
as the parent of wicked compadt and infatuation, or the child of impof-
ture, but would be fenfible it contains the balfamic nutriment of Truth
and Wifdom.
Thofe who deny the being of Aftrology, have furely never contem­
plated the myfteries of their own exiftence, nor the common occurrences
that are infeparable from it j many of which are inexplicable when abftradt-
cdly confidered, and only ceafe to ftrike us with wonder, bccaufe they are
obvious
Digitized by Google Original from
MDl/l/ v n Q V Dl ID I i r I ID D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y
obvious and familiar to our fenfes. If we recoiled: that the moA trivial
incident in nature, cannot come to pafs without a caufe; and that thefe
caufes are inceffantly giving birth to a new fate, which at one time brings
us comfort, and at another overwhelms us with misfortunes; that to-day
give6 us the full enjoyment of our wilhes, and to-morrow confounds
every imagination of our hearts j it is ftrange we (hould deny that fuch
caufes exift, when every hour’s experience confirms the fad, by the good
or ill fuccefs that conftantly attends all human purfuits. To illuftrate
this obfervation more fully, let us attentively confider the ftupendous
frame or model of Nature, as laid down in the holy Scriptures, and en­
deavour to deduce therefrom the fubordinate dependence of one part upon
another, from the interior heavens, to the minuted: fubftance upon earth.
Hence we may poffibly difcover the origin of thefe caufes, and prove that
Aftrology does not exift in imagination only.
The fubftance of this great and glorious Frame, which the Almighty
created, we call the world; and the world confifts of the heaven and the
earth*. The model of it is, as the prophet Ezekiel defcribes it, in the
form of a wheel-f; with many wheels within the fame, involved one
within another. And thus we find it by mathematical demonftration ;
for the earth is a wheel or globe of fea and land, circumfcribed by the at-
mofphere, as within a greater wheel, which is globous too; and furrounded
by the heavens, as by many wheels involved one within another, encircling
the fun, moon, and ftars, and all the hoft of them. The power which
firft actuated and put thefe wheels in perpetual motion, was the fame
which called them into exiftence; the executioners of whofe will, are re­
presented by the Prophet under the fimilitude of four living creatures,
immeafurably endued with wifdom, courage, agility, and ftrength. And
hence were life, and fpirit, find power, and virtue communicated to the
heavens, and from the heavens to the earth, and from the earth to man
and beaft, and to every plant and-herb, and earthly fubftance. Hence
alfo are derived the magnetic powers, and wonderful properties of na­
ture j the virtues of fympathy and antipathy, the invifible effeCts of at­
traction and expulfion, and all the various influences of the ftars and
The proper agents of this noble ftruCture, are angels, and m e n t h e
one compofed of a pure etherial fpirit, and incorruptible; the other, in
his primary ftate, lefs pure, but incorruptible alfo, until his fall, which
brought upon himfelf and offspring mortality and death. The angels are
eithergoodorbad,andultimatelyknow their reward or doom j but the works
planets.
* See Gen. i. i, f Ezck. i. 15. 16,
Original from
v n p t ' Dl IDI Ir I IDQADV
i6 A N - I L L U S T R A T I O N
of fallen man are yet upon the anvil, and time with us is (fill going >on.
But man is now endued, as in his primary (late, with the agency of a
Free W ill, and hath good and evil, fora ted of his obedience, continually
fet before him, with freedom to choofe either. And thus, unconftrained
either by the immediate hand of God, or by the operation of the planets,
as fecond caufes, fome embrace life, and others feek condemnation; and
hence follow virtue and vice, profperity and adverlity, ficknefs and health,
life and death, and all the viciffitudes of Fortune. And though the rife
and fall of empires proceed from the virtues and vices of thofe men who
govern and inhabit them ; and thefe virtues and vices proceed from the
free will or agency of thofe men ; and though the incidents .good and
bad of one man’s life are innumerable, and the men who are the fubjedts
of thofe incidents in one fingle age, are innumerable alfo ; and though
the ages of men, (ince the creation of the world, are innumerable too j
yet have all thefe multiplied incidents, whether trivial or important, come
to pafs by a regular courfe or concatenation of caufes, originally im­
planted in the wheels or frame of nature. And with fuch minute per-
fedtion was this ftupendous frame conllrudted, that neither the fall of
man, nor the tremendous (hock which agitated the world upon that af*
flidting occalion j not all the wickednefs of mankind in after ages, nor the
defolations which have rent the earth in confequence thereof, have yet
impaired the wheels of this aftonifhing machine, or for a moment im­
peded its conflant and unceafing motion. And fuch was the amazing
forefight and providence of God, that perceiving, .at one view, all the
events of futurity, the turnings and windings of every man’s will, and the
total fum and uplhot of all virtue and vice, he at once contrived the fates
of profperity and adverlity, of rewards and punilhments fo to come up,
as precifely to anfwer the virtues and prayers of the righteous, and the
vices and profanenefs of the wicked, in all ages of the world, at their
fit and appointed feafons.
Now all mankind have each of them, more or lefs, a certain (hare of
wifdom, power, or wealth, wherewith they occupy in this life, and carry
forward all their undertakings. Thus we fee fome men, by means of
riches, courage or contrivance, grow mighty, and purpofe, as if nothing
could impede the full accomplishment of their defigns and yet we find
there are two things which confound the wifeft, the greateft, and proudeft
of them all, in the very fummit of their glory $— thefe are. Time, and
Chance— two mighty lords upon earth, which bring to pafs many flrange
and marvellous events. Time is that motion of fpace which proceeded
out of eternity when the world began, and holdeth on unto eternity, which
is to fucceed at the world’s end. Out of this one long time, are engen­
dered
«*Goosle Original from
M C I A / V A D V Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 17
dcred infinite fpaces of time, of a great variety of forts; and thcfe are
either general or fpecial, and each of them either fortunate, or unfortu­
nate. There is a time for every purpofe under heaven * ; a time of plea-
fure, and another time of pain and grief j a time to rife, and a time to fall >
a time to be born, and a time to die. There is a certain lucky time in
man’s life, wherein if he go out to battle, though with but few men, yet
he carrieth the vidtory; and there is another time wherein, though he go
out with ever fo complete an army, yet fhall he gain nothing but difgrace-f-.
Soalfo there is a time when overtures of marriage fliall be fuccefsful, but a
man’s defires anfwer it not, and again there is a time when defires of mar­
riage fhall ftrongly urge, and all overtures prove ineffectualbut there is
a time alfo when defircs and overtures fhall exadtly correfpond, and fuit
together. In like manner, there is a time when profperity and riches fhall
offer fhemfelves, and be attained, whether a man fleep or wake ; and by
and by, though he purfue them with wings, yet fo unlucky a time occurs,
as renders all his endeavours fruitlefs. Some men come into the world
in a lucky hour, fo that let them be wife orfoolifh, they fliall be buoyed
up on the wings of fate in all matters of wealth or honour, and fucceed in
all that they take to ; while wifer and better men, fmitten with an un­
lucky time of birth, fhall be as undefervedly difparaged, and all their un­
dertakings fhall prove unfuccefsful and unhappy. Some fliall be lucky
in the van of their enterprizes, and as unfortunate in the rear ; and others
again contrariwife. And thus time feems to mock and fport with the
men of this life, and to advance, or counteract, all their fkill and contri­
vances, even to a degree infinitely beyond whatever we could reafonably
conceive or expedt. And yet time of itfelf is but a dead thing, and a
mere inftrument; but the wheels of the heavens turning upon it, imprint
riddles in its face, and carve and cut out the .various fliapes of profperity
andadverfity, upon the minuteft portion thereof. And wonderful it is to
obferve, that a child, the moment it draws breath, becomes time-fmitten
by the face of heaven, and receives an impreffion from the ftars therein,
which taking rife from the afeendent, fun, moon, and other principal
fignificators, operate as the imprefTors Hand, and point out, as with
the finger of God, the caufes whence the fate and fortune of the new­
born infant proceed; and whether it come before, or at its full time, or
in what part of the world foever it is born, it matters not; for as the na­
ture of the fignificators are that afeend upon the horizon at the birth,
fuch fhall certainly be the fortune of the J native. This is a truth that
* See Eccl. iii. r, 2, &c. f Chap. ix. i r.
X This aflonifhing property of nature will be illuftrated more at large, in its proper place,
and the reader enabled, by plain and obvious rules, to make the experiment upon himielf, upon
his own family, or upon any other fubjedls he may think proper.—The event of his own obfer-
vations will confirm the fa£t> and afford him an inexhauftible fund of moral and religious con­
templation !
C will
Original from
M P A l v n c k ' Dl IPI Ir I ID
Digitized by Gcx sle
i8 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
will bear the moft minute enquiry, and will be found the ordination of
an all-wife and indulgent Providence, for the fpeculation and improvement
of his creature man. And thefe fignificators reprefent, as it were, aferies
of curious knots, which untie by courfe; and as every knot unties, dif­
ferent times feem to fly out, and perform their errands; and of thefe,
fometimes we may obferve two, or three, or more, lucky knots opening
together, and at other times as many that are inaufpicious. Yet all times
are beautiful in theirfeafons, if men could hit them ; but through the ma­
lignity of fin, and an intemperate purfuit of worldly pleafures, we often
lofe the favourable time afforded us, of embracing the moll fubltantial
happinefs.
J y The fecond great lord over human inventions, is Chance. And thefe
jyfchances proceed from a great variety of rare and fecret operations of hea-
, 'Vpn, which throw in the way of men thofe ftrange and fortuitous turns of
fortune, that furpafs all human forefight or conception. And yet there
is really no fuch thing as chance in nature ; much lefs can there be any
thing that comes by chance, in refpedtof God ; but all thofe curious hits
that ftrike in between the caufe and its effedt, we call Chances, as belt fuit-
ing human ideas, becaufe of the undefcribable properties of them. For
in fhuffling a pack of cards, or in calling the dice, it feems to us a meer
chance what call lliall happen uppermoft, or what card will go to the
bottom of the pack, and yet it is evident by experience, that there is a
certain luck in nature, which prelides over all thefe adventures, fo that a
man lliall either win or lofe in a methodical courfe. It alfo happens in the
time of battle, and in every purfuit after wealth and honor, that chances
fall in upon us, and turn the fcales by a fecret kind of fate, beyond all
that could reafonably have been expedted ; and thus heaven breathes into
all human adtions, an infinity of thefe chances, that overturn the wifdom
and power, and all the greatnefs of man. Thefe chances are uniformly
managed by a certain kind of luck, either good or bad, which drives the
nail; and this, by fome heavenly influence, that infufes a fecret virtue or
poifon into our adtions, as courage into their hearts on one fide, or difmay
on the other ; and Ikill into fome mens heads to purfue the right courfe
to be rich, or folly into others, whereby they run headlong to milery and
want; or elle fortunateth or infortunateth by miftake of words, fignals,
or adts, that turn to the belt or worlt advantage, by llrange hits or mif-
carriages ; and thus it happens that a flight miftake in battle begets an utter
rout,after a vidtory made almoft complete, by the meer utterance of a wrong
word, or fleering an improper courfe. Eut which way foever it happens,
the whole matter is wrought by a good or ill luck, and the hand of God
is at the bottom of i t ; not by any new contrived adt, but by the fame
, regular courfe of nature, ordained from the beginning of the world.
Thus
Goosle Original from
MC\AJ V f l D k ' DI IP I Ir I I B B A B V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 19
Thus both Time and Chance are the fervants of nature, under whofc
■commands they fway the world, and worldly m en; but by her laws are
both of them difpofed. Time meafures out the extent of mens lives, and
fets bounds how long they may live by ftrength of nature, and how much
of that time fliall be extenuated by means of fin ; and it alfo carves out
limits to the particular fates of all mankind; and Chance aits in obferv-
ance of thofe limits, and brings about the good and bad fuccefs of every
fate. And thus by the fervice of Time and Chance, nature performs all
her great and.fecret operations, whether upon colledtive bodies, or places,
•or perfons. It may be thought firange that nature fhould bring forth men
•and women at a great diftance of years, hours, and places, all deftined to
•die at one time, and by the fame manner of death, either by war, plague,
peftilence,' or Ihipwreck; and that time and chance fhould pick them up,
and draw them together, from a variety of different purfuits, to partake
at lafl: in one and the fame deftrudtive fate. Yet this is no more ftrange
than true; for thefe things frequently happen, and that by the imper­
ceptible influences of thofe heavenly afpedts and ftars, which their
courfes fought againji Sifera*. And by the fame rule, as many men, wo­
men, and children, are, on the other hand, gathered together by a fimi-
lar force and virtue, to enjoy great and good fortune.
Some perhaps will contend, that thefe operations of nature are incom­
patible with the free agency of man’s will. But if what has already
been prcmifed be attentively confidered, this fuppofition will immedi­
ately vanifh; for God, who ordained the courle of nature, certainly
forefaw the minuted turn of every man’s will, and eventually contrived
his fate to correfpond therewith, fo as to admit its free and uncontrouled
choice. And whoever denies this antecedent principle, or prefcience of
<2od in the conftrudtion of the world, denies one of his moft eflcntial
attributes. The Will of man, without doubt, in a variety of inftances,
makes great druggies and wredlings with the ftarry influences, both
in good and in evil purfuits, and often prevails over them exceedingly;—
for though a perfon be born under fuch benevolent or malignant afpedts,
as fliall point out his natural temper and difpofition, and indicate the
principal tranfadtions, fortunate or unfortunate, that arc likely to be the
diftinguifliing marks of his life; yet does it depend entirely upon the
free uncontrouled will of that man, whether all thofe circumflances, fo
pointed out in his nativity, (hall come to pafs, or n o t; becaufe the free
will in every man, when fortified by habits of virtue and wifdom, often
■enable him to over-rule thofe evil afpedts, fo as to avoid the commif-
iion of any criminal offence, and to guard him againd the misfortunes or
* Judg, v. 20.
•loflfes
Goosle Original from
M
PU
fvnet' D
l IDIIr IIDBADV
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Ioffes impending over him ; while men of a profligate and cardlefs
habit, not only lofe the advantages of a promifing nativity, but, if
born under malevolent afpedts, are often reduced to the laft ftage of di-
ftrefs, artd perifh under the very fame ftrokes of nature, which wifer
and better men, born in the fame inaufpicious moments, have endured
with much eafe. And thus far fapiens dominabitur ajlris, the wife man,
above the fool, may ruledijg ftars. But we muff not forget, that under
thefe operations of fate, there are many influences fo powerful, that no
wifdom of man can oppofe. Such are the fatal wounds of death, w hen.
nature’s glafs is run out, and fuch the violent blows of excruciating
pain and ficknefs, and the high tides of profperity and adverfity; in all
which cafes, we find by experience, ajira regunt , the ftars rule,
and overpower men. Yet neverthelefs, fuch is the infinite prefcience
and providence of God, that forefeeing the defires and deferts of all wife
and holy men, in their different ages and times, he alfo laid their fates
fuiting to their adtions. He forefaw Jofeph’s prayers and tears in his
captivity, and accordingly provided his advance in nature to correfpond
therewith*. He forefaw Hannah’s falling, and earned:prayer, and ordained
her opening womb to bud forth in courfe of nature exadtly anfwering
thereto-f'. So that the wifdom and will of man has its full free work, with­
out reftraint or controul; and grace and virtue adt by their own princi­
ples, as they are led by the Holy Ghoft; and yet nature, as it was contrived
from all eternity, adls freely too. This is the dodtrine we are taught by
the word of God, which is confirmed by the evidence of our own reafon
and experience.
Now the fcience which we call Aftrology, is nothing more 'than the
ftudy or inveftigation of this frame or model of nature, with all its admi­
rable produdtions and effedts j whereby we acquire a knowledge of the fe-
cret virtues of the heavens, and the Ihining luminaries therein contained.
It is a fcience which all may attain to, by common diligence and applica­
tion ; and the more we delight in it, the more readily do we forefee the
motions of future events, and the curiofities of chance and natural acci­
dents, and the courfes of luck by which both are governed, and the order
of fate, unto which all of them are fubfervient; together with all the
moft curious adts of attradling and expelling, alluring and threatening,
encouraging and disheartening, and all fuch like operations of nature,
moft fecretly and imperceptibly performed, beyond the reach of ima­
gination. And as by a fkill in this ftudy we attain to fee and experience
things that are paft, fo by the fame fkill we attain to a knowledge of
things which are to come and, by knowing the time of our birth, are
* See Gen. xxxvir. and xli. 40. Pfal. cv. lS, 19, 20.—f Sam. i. 10, u , &c.
enabled
Original from
m c i a / v n o k ' di id 11
r i i d d a d v
Digitized by ( j O O Q I C
"••enabled to read in the heavens the ftory of our whole lives, our bldfings
and crolTes, honour and difhonour, profperity and adverfity, ficknel's and
i health, and all the years of our life, and time of our death, even as though
1 we had feen them tranfadled and come to pafs in their feveral times and
feafons. For God hath afluredly given this knowledge unto the wife
man, to know the time and the j
u
d
g
m
e
n
ta
n
dthe number of our days, t
we may be certified how long we have to * live, with comfort and content;
that we may be timely prepared for all ftates of profperity and adverfity,
for a long and happy life, or a calamitous and fpeedy death; and that we
may fupport ourfelves with fortitude and refignation, in proportion to
our foreknowledge of thefe events. And no man fo fit to foreknow
thefe, as he who is able to fay. Majorfum quam cuipojptfortuna tiocere.
But many men will not believe, that by natural means all or any of
this foreknowledge can be fairly and lawfully obtained; or that the in­
fluences attributed to the heavenly bodies have any foundation in truth.
It is therefore neceflary, before I enter upon the practical part of the
fcience, to bring fuch evidence in fupport of what has been already ad­
vanced, as will be found incontrovertible and decifive ; and for this pur-
pofe I muft refer to the teftimony of thofe facred writings, which con­
tain the revelation of God, and in which the dodtrine of this fcience is
fo demonftrably proved, that it will be difficult to believe the one, with­
out admitting the other. Let us confider the account given by Mofes, of
the creation of the heavenly bodies. God faid, “ Let there be lights in
the firnament of heaven, to divide the day from the night; the greater
light to rule the day, and the lefler light to rule the night, and let them
be for figns, and for feafons, and for days and years.”—Thefe then were
the purpofes for which they were ordained, and irrevocably fixed by their
great Creator—firft for lights; for had they not a place in the firmament,
or were we deprived of their illuminating rays, we fhould be inftantly
overwhelmed with impenetrable darknefs. Secondly, they are to divide the
day from the night; and this they never ceafe to do ; for when the fun,
the greater light, is funk five degrees below our horizon, we call it night;
for then the moon andftars appear, andfhed their lefler light, and darknefs
in fome degree is fpread around, and every thing declares it to be theftate
of night. But when the fun, that glorious fountain of life, light, and
motion, begins to touch the eaflern verge of the horizon, darknefs is
difpelled, light begins again to dawn, and the ftars which beautifully be-
fpangle our hemifphere, are foon obfcured by the full blaze of day ; but
as days and nights are unequal, and never continue in one flay, thefe celef-
tial luminaries diftinguilh their refpedtive reigns. Thirdly, they are for
* Eccl. i. y. Pfal. xxxix. 4, 5.
No. 2. D figns
Original from
M C l A f v r i D k ' 01 i d 1 1r 1 I P D a r v
Digitized by Google
uuiiiciiii,
vjuuyie-uiyiu^eu
/
i
ill
|
j
;//
v
v
v
v
v
v
.
i
idL
i
iil
i
ubL.ui
y/cK.^tibb_ube-H-pu-yuuyie
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
figns—not to brutes, for they have not the faculty of underftanding them »
nor to angels, for they continually behold the face of God, and obey his
will in the government of the heavenly bodies, at his pleafure. There­
fore when God faith, Letthem be fo r fg n s, he mud fpeak in ref
to man whom he formed a rational creature, capable of diflinguilhing one
fign from another, and of improving by them. Nor are we to look upon
them as mere figns, like beacons upon a hill, or as only fetting bounds to
days, months, and years ; but we are to confider them as figns and tokens
of thofe hidden events of futurity, which it concerns every wife and good
man to know ; and which he may always forefee, by a virtuous and fober
ftudy of thefe intelligent figns, placed by God for that purpofe in the fir­
mament of heaven. And that this was the intent of them, is clearly de-
monftrated by the words of our Saviour, when he foretold the deftru&ion
of Jerufalem, and the final confummation of all things. His apoftles
afked him. What (hall the fign of thefe things be? He replies. Earth­
quakes, famines, and peftilences ; fearful fights in the heavens, and figns in
the fun, in the moon and in the * ftars. Such alfo was the fign by which
the Eaftern Sages difeovered the birth of our Saviour, and the place of
his nativity ; and numerous other infiances may be adduced, both from
facred and profane hiftory, in l'upport of this dodtrine.——
—
'The fourth ufe
of thefe ceieftial luminaries, is for feafons. This is alfo obvious ; for we
find that heat and cold, and drought and moifture, are all guided and go­
verned by the heavenly bodies; and that not only fpring and autumn,
and fummer and winter, bear tefiimony of i t ; but we have it confirmed by
the evidence of our own conftitution and feeling; for when the weather
is heavy and lowering, we find ourfelves dull and languid ; when bright
and radiant, we are chearful and merry; and, when unfettled and uniea-
fonable, we feel it by indifpofition and melancholy; and this is all brought
about by the operation of thefe luminaries upon the feafons of the year,
in the due courfe of nature. The next ufe allotted them is fifthly for
days, and fixthly for years ; and that thefe are meafured out, and governed
by them, is every way apparent; by the fun’s circuit, and the moon’s
energy.—The fun, like a ftrong man, rejoices to run his race; he rifeth
out of the chambers of the eaft, and with golden rays difpels the morn­
ing clouds, and exhales the pearly dew; chearing and refrefhing all na­
ture with his prefence. Hence it is evident that thefe luminaries were
not only placed in the heavens to give light upon the earth, to govern,
the feafons, and to fet bounds to tim e; but alfo to communicate figns
and tokens to mankind, of things to come. We fhall now confider how
far it is fcriptural, and confonant to reafon, to allow them thofe influ­
ences attributed to them by Aftrology.
* Lukexxi. 6, 7, 11, 15, &c.
That
Origirval from
mcu/ v n o r di iri 1r i irb a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y 23*
That the fun, moon, and all the planets, have a diredt and obvious influ­
ence upon earthly fubftances, no man of common obfervation will pretend
to deny. The fun is the fountain of heat, and that heat is the nurfe of
life; and the moon is the fountain of moifture, which tempers the vio­
lent heat of the fun, and modifies all his operations. But the fun and
moon, and all the planets, have each of them a particular fpecific pro­
perty, according to their own innate quality, and according to the nature
of that fign or band of ftars under which they happen to be pofited.
This is a fadt eftabliflied by repeated obfervation and experience; for
when the fun enters the equinodtial fign Aries, the fpring begins to {hew
herfelf, and ajl vegetative nature, by the moon’s humidity and the fun’s
temperate heat, feems to revive and flouriih, and, as it were, to rife from
the dead ; whither the cold blafts of the hyemnal air, had before configned
it.- So, when his radiant beams enter the fign Taurus, they ftir up the
benign influences of the Pleiades and Hyades; Hcedi being then to the
north, and Orion to the fouth, and Ardurus finking below the horizon ;
and their cold and tempeftuous effedts begin to ceafe, as they are fuc-
ceeded by thefe benevolent conftellations which produce warm fouthern
winds, and gentle (howers, replenishing the earth, and caufing vegetation.
Again, when the fun rifes with the Dog-ftar, we find an influence which
eaul’
t's vehemency of heat, contagion, and infirmity. Medicaments ad-
miniftered under this conftellation, prove hard and obnoxious; and we
find dogs at this time are apt to run mad; the fea is troubled without any
apparent caufe, and all nature feems more or lefs opprefled by i t ; and
yet thefe effedts are never found to be equally violent in any two fummers,
which clearly proves an influence in the ftars, as well as in the fun. And
keeps the fame conftant and invariable courfe
again, though the fun
through the twelve figns of the Zodiac, for an infinity of annual revo­
lutions, yet we never find the feafons and weather exadtly correfpond,
which they doubtlefs would do, were it not that cold and heat, and wind
and rain, are governed by the configurations the fun has with the planets
and fixed ftars ; and this alio evidently proves the force of their influence.
It is likewife manifeft, that, whenever the planet Saturn is palling out of
one fign into another, the weather, is more or lefa turbulent.and.unfettled.
But it is not the weather only, nor the inanimate part of the creation
alone, that is affedted by the influences of the fun, moon, and planets;
for we find they operate upon the human fpecies, and upon all animate
nature, in every part of the world. The fun, and the quality of the
heavens about the torrid zone, naturally occafion thofe men who are born
and live under it to be quite black, with fhort crifped hair, of a mean
ftature, and hot conftitution, imbibing a fierce and favage fpirit; and
this
Original from
M P A / V f > D l / n i IDI i r I I D D
igitized by Goi gle
s
if
i
n
n
fi
-n
H
-w
-
a
Q
n
q
q
a
-
'
n
p
/
f
i
i
m
c
n
n
n
h
p
i
r
aaaaaa
/
/
t
I
t
im
/
n
^
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
P
i
n
n
o
'
i
i
i
p
m
n
n
24 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
this by reafon of the fun’s .continual ftay and power in that fiery reglo
It is obfervable, that the inhabitants of the fouth, are of a better an
quicker wit, and much more ingenious and tradable ; and this is acK
counted for by their vertical point being fituated nearer the zodiac,
which the planet moves. So likewife the inhabitants of the north are of"*
a ftrong body, but of rude manners and condition, bccaufe their vertical
point is placed at a great difiance from the fun’s courfe; and therefore they
abound with cold and moifture, and are of a phlegmatic conftitution, of
a fair complexion, tall, courageous, and ingenuous. Europe, being
iituated in the north-weft part of the earth, is under Mars in Aries; and,
by reafon of this planet ruling in that triplicity, its inhabitants are na­
turally of a noble and magnanimous fpirit, given to martial exploits, and
feats of war; of a generous mind, and courteous manners. And thus the
fup, modified by the different figns and conftellations through which he
paffes, regulates the climates, and ftieds his influence upon all mankind,
leaving behind him evident marks of his government and fway. Some,
indeed, have attempted to account for the fwarthy and black complexion
of the favage race, by a variety of other plaufible conjedtures ; but none
are to be relied on, that do not attribqte its caufe to the intenfe heat and
power of the fun in thofe climates ; than which nothing can be more
confonant to reafon, fince we find, even in this country, that if we remain
long together in the fun, in the heat'of fummer, our complexions change,
and we become in a degree tanned and fwarthy.
Confpicuous as are the influences of the fun, thofe of the moon are no
lefs fo. This is evinced by a confideration of that wonderful and never-
ceafing operation of the moon upon the ocean, fo as to occafion that per­
petual flux and reflux of the fea, which we call tides. Here we fee the
waters of the vaft ocean, forgetful, as it were, of their natural reft, move
and roll in tides obfequious to the ftrong attra&ive power of the moon,
and with an increafe or diminution of force, in proportion as {he appears
in ftrength, or want of afpecl. This is an influence fo univerfally ad­
mitted, and fo peculiar to that luminary, that it eftablifties at once the
dodtrine we contend for. But there are numerous other inftances of
the effefls of the moon, no lefs common than extraordinary, and perfectly
well known. Thofe unhappy perfons who labour under a deprivation of
fenfe, and are afflidted with lunacy, have their fits more violent and ter»
rible, in proportion as the moon increafesor diminifhes in light and mo­
tion ; and, in all chronic and acute difeafes, her power and influence are
vifibly and forcibly felt. Indeed every fubjedt of the creation is more or
lefs effedted by the moon’s energy ; the eyes of cats are obferved to fwell
or fall at the full and change of the moon; and even the ftiell-fiih at the
bottom
Original from
M C I A / \ f m I DI I f * I I D D A D V
Digitized by G O O C f l e
I O F A S T R O L O G Y . 2 S
2
1. ie ocean, are known to feel the weight of her influence.
fcwho deep in the fields, or in any place expofed to the open air, by
flight, find their beads oppreflfed with water, and their fenfes inert
y i heavy ; and butcher’s meat hung up, and expofed to the moon-light,
1
1 foon putrify. The gardener alfo brings us abundant teftimonies of
e influence of the moon upon the vegetable world. If peas are fown /
the increafe of the moon, they never ceafe blooming; and, if
id herbs are fet in the wane, experience Ihews they are neither fo rich in
avour, nor fo flrong and healthy, as when planted during her increafe; fo
ines, becaufe they Ihould not fpread too fall:, are ufually pruned in the
vane. It is alfo remarkable that a pomegranate will, live only as many
years as the moon was days old when it was planted ; and, in planting
fftrubs, or the like, if they are to Ihoot up ftrait and tall, and to take little
root, they are fet when the moon is in an airy fign and increafing in light;
but contrariwife when they are to take deep root, and to ftrike downwards.
And thus we may obferve flowers that are under the moon’s influence
only open their bloflfoms in the-night; whilft thofe which are peculiarly
under the government of the fun open every morning when he begins to
rife, and clofe in the evening when he finks below the horizon. Thefe
effeds and influences of the moon are fo common, and fo generally known,
that it were almoft needlefs to repeat them here, but for the purpofe of
drawing this conclufion, that, as one planet has a known and forcible ac­
tion upon lublunary things, it is natural to believe that all the others
are endued in fotne degree with a fimilar force and virtue. Indeed moll
phyficians know that the planet Saturn rules all climaderical years, as the
lun doth critical days, and the moon the crilis of all acute difeafes; and
that every fcventh year Saturn comes to the fquare or oppolition of his
place in the radix of every man’s nativity ; and that, after the revolution
of the fun, he becomes the chief ruler of critical days, and is often ob-
ferved, by his configurations with the moon, to fet afide the fatal crifis
of thofe del'perate dilorders, over which the patient was not expeded to
live. From thefe phyfical reafons, we may fafely conclude that Saturn
is by nature cold and melancholy, as the fun is hot and chearful ; and,
being thus oppofite to the lun in quality andeffed, fo is he in relation to
the figns and manfions of the heavens where he bears rule, and therefore
inclines always to cold, as the fun does to heat. Hence it follows, that
when the fun is in Aquatics, which is the proper fign of Saturn, and op­
pofite to his own fign Leo, the weather inclines more to cold than to heat;
and, at every conjunction, fquare, or oppolition, of Saturn with the two
great luminaries, we always fin.i the weather cold, moift, and lowering,
even in the mutft of the lummer, unlels the rays of Jupiter or Mars inter-
pofc, in which cafe thefe efteds are fomewhat lefs vifible. Thus, we
No. a. E may
Digitized by Go< gle Original from
MEIA/ V H D V Dl ID I i r I I D B A P V
3i
fin
nfi
-n
rl-
tf
-a<
;n
i
m
c
t
n
m
i
i
tp
i
i
'
aaaaaa
//.
t
I
tti
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
i
n
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
may prefume to affirm, that the influences of the fun, moon, a ^ B |
nets, are eftablifhed beyond contradiction.
But, befides thefe figniorities of the fun, moon, and planets, the
for a light by night; and to thefe ftars hath he committed a certain J
or dominion*over the day and night, and that promifcuoufly. Now the 1
ftars have no vifible operation upon us, befides that little light they ad- "
minifter to our eyes in a dark and clear night; and that is lb very fmall,
that all the ftars in heaven, befides the fun and moon, are not to be com­
pared, in this refpeCt, with the fmallefl. w ax-light; and this little light
too is only to be had when the nights are ferene and unclouded. Can it
then be fuppofed that God made thefe glorious bodies, many of which
are bigger than the whole earth, and move in their orbs as fo many other
worlds in the heavens, merely for a twinkle in the night, and that only
when the weather permits ? lo! every little daily that grows upon the cold
ground has a fecret and infenfible virtue wrapt in its leaves and flowers;
and have thefe celeftial bodies no influences but what we now and then
catch with our eyes, as they occafionally fparkle their dim glances upon
us ? Yes, they have each of them a fecret power and virtue, wherewith
they ad upon all earthly things, as well by day as by night, and in cloudy
as well as in clear weather. But, as their operations are not performed by
fenfible and palpable means, it follows that they have a fecret and hidden
way of rule, whereby the influences are imperceptibly infufed into every
concern of this life. And, as have the ftars, fo alfo have the fun and
moon, a fecret and imperceptible aCtion, peculiar to themfelves ; for it is
not the mere heat that gives life, nor the mere moifture that fuftains i t ;
for, if that were the cafe, then might man make living creatures artificially.
It is true that heat may hatch the eggs, but all the ingenuity of man can­
not make an egg that can be hatched; for there is a fecret operation of
the fun and moon, independent of heat and moifture, necelfary to the pro-
dudion of life, both in vegetive and fenfttive animals. And in thefe
fecret and infenfible operations, befides the light that they give, confifts
that rule which the fun, moon, and ftars, were ordained to exercife over
all the fons of day and night; and herein are written all thofe ordinances
of the moon and ftars, which are to be a unto mankind, and to the
whole body of nature, fo long as the world -j*endures. Thus the ftars
have their natural influences, affigned to them in the frame of nature,
from the beginning of the world; and thefe influences are diffufed upon all
earthly things, as far as day and night extend their limits. And this God
* See Jeremiah xxxi. 35. and Gen. i. 18. t Jeremiah xxxi. 35, 36.
Jlars have alfo their principalities in the heavens. The Lord, who gaveP
the fun for a light by day, gave the ordinances of the moon and ftars alfo
1 him-
Digitized b Gcxsle Original from
M H / l / v n o k ' Dl I P I i r I I P P A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 27
. rms, when he fays to Job, *
* Canft thou bind the fweet
^ of P l e i a d e s ,
or loofe the bands of Orion ?— Canft; thou bring
^^^flazzaroth in hisf
e
a
f
o
n
-
,
or canft thou gA
rdlurus
icnce it is evident that the ftars called the Pleiades have their ordinances,
is, their fweet i n f l u e n c e s ,which no power of man is able to
* 1 the ftars of Orion have their ordinances, and binding faculty, by
* - .vers in fummer, and froft in winter, bringing fuch an hard and tough
tof armour upon the ground, as all the contrivances of man are not
: to prevent. Thus Mazzaroth, and -j-Ardlurus with his fons, have
) their ordinances, and the whole hoft of heaven have their courfe, by
ich the purpofes of God, and all the events of this life, are uniformly
>ught to pafs.
To this purpofe it is faid, by Deborah the prophetefs. That of
heavenfought in their courfes againft Sifera ;£, not by fword or fpear, nor
by thunder or lightning j but by thofe fatal and malevolent influences,
wherewith Sifera and his hoft were marked from their cradle, and drawn
together, by the operations of time and chance, to partake in one common
deftrudlion in the lame day. And to this enfed the Almighty difcourfes
with Job, concerning the treafures of theflow and hail, which he has hid
againfl thetime of trouble, and the day of war and § battle. Now what can
we fuppofe the meaning of this hiding to be, but the order of thofe me­
teors, fo curioufly lodged within tHe arms of the ftars, and withheld by
their influences, that they may fall by due courfe of nature, at fuch exatt
periods, as to effedl the punilhment of the wicked, and of God’s declared
enemies, fuch as was Silera, at the precife time when their abominations
call forth the judgments of an injured and incenfed Deity ? And after the
fame manner the light and heat, the wind and rain, the thunder and
lightning, the froft and dew, are all of them fo admirably contrived in
the polition of the heavens, that they come to pafs in their due and ap­
pointed feafons, and make the grafs to grow even in the wildernefs, where no
man || dwells. Now it muft be obvious to the meaneft underftanding,
that, if thefe things were regulated by a virtue immediately ifluing from
the bofom of the Deity, then would the light and heat, the wind and
rain, and all the reft of them, fall only where men and beafts dwell, who
may fee and enjoy the bleflings of them, and adore and glorify Him who
fends them; but, fince they fall equally where neither man nor living
creature is to be found, it follows, that they fall by virtue of means, and
that in a continued courfe, wherever thofe means lead them, making the
* Job xxxviii. 31, 32, 33. | See Argol. Aftr. ante Ephem. lib. ii. cap. 8. Stellse tempef-
tuofae funt Orion, Ardturus, &c. pluriof* Pleiades. + Judges v. 20. § Job xxxviii. 22, 23,
24, 23, &c, UJob xxxviii. 26, 27.
earth
Digitized by Go., gle Original from
KIHA/ v n c V Dl IQ I I T I I D D A D V
28 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
earth fertile and produdtive where eaters are not to be found as
where they are.
Thus far both Scripture and Reafon unite, in confirming our belief
theftarry influence; but, there are fo many other proofs of it, in the o?
dinary produdtions of nature, that it would be highly unpardonable were
I to pafs them over in filence. The loadftone affords us one very ftrikinj
example, by its attractive and expulfive faculty, and by the magnetic
tue it has a power of communicating to other diftinCt bodies. Thus we!
fee a needle, only touched with the loadftone, and placed in the compafs,
will conftantly point towards the north pole, and, though it be ever fo
far diftant, or though rocks and mountains, or even the earth’s body, in­
tervene, yet it retains this directive property in fo extraordinary a degree,
that it will continue precifely in the fame direction, unlefs violence be
ufed to prevent i t ; and, even after it has been removed by force, it will of
itfelf return to its former fituation, without the leaft fenfible difference.
The properties of the loadftone in many other refpeCts are lo very inex­
plicable, that the experiments of our moil celebrated modern mathema­
ticians have not been able fo afford us a fatisfaCtory definition of them.
This however is certain, that it could not poflibly imbibe thefe miracu­
lous properties without the aid of fome celeftial matter, which is com­
municated to it by the influence of the pole-ftar, or fome other of the
heavenly bodies within the polar circles, from whence it is manifeft the
loadftone receives thefe fecret and admirable qualities. Another afto-
nifhing effeCt of this influence may be obferved in the natural produc­
tion of life and motion ; how it ftarts up and grows, and continues in the
lap of heat and moifture, proportionably conjoined, and perfeCt in all its
parts, beyond the utmoft of our comprehenfion whence it comes, or
which way it is maintained, unlefs by the operation of this fecret and in-
viiible influence. And, if this be denied, I would wifh to afk. Whence
the rofe, furrounded by ill-fcented weeds and thirties, derives its fragrant
fmell ? or how the plantane, by the path-way fide, acquires its admirable
virtue of healing fores ? or which way the lily. Handing up to its middle
in mud a: d mire, receives its coat of many colours, fo beautifully wrought,
as many times we fee it is ? or how a grain of wheat, thrown into the*
cold earth, putrifies and* dies, and then ftarts up into new life, and mul­
tiplies into an ear of thirty or forty grains for one ? Or tell me how the
m.iticr in an egg, by the fitting of the hen, is in a few weeks animated,
and converted into a chicken, that will eat, and walk, and chirp, the mo­
ment it emerges from the (hell ? Or by what means the feed in the womb,
without any art, or fkill, or knowledge of the mother, coagulates, and
* St. John xii. 24.
turns
v
*
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
MC\A/ Dl IDI Ir I IDDADV
f
iWS ihto flelh and blood, receives life, and is fo admirably formed into
jberfedt child, that learns to cry, and fpeak, and call? You will fay,
perhaps. That this is the immediate workmanlhip and effedt of God.
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 39
But this we already know ; the only queftion is, how he does it; whe­
ther by means, or without? If without means, then every child that is
born, and every feed that grows out of the ground, mull of neceffity come
to pafs by a new creation; for to bring things into exiftence without
means, is the fame as to produce them without matter; and requires no
more; but for the Almighty to fay. Let there be men, or. Let there be
leaves and flowers; and, as the Word fays, they come to pafs. But we
are certain there never was more than one creation, which was at the be­
ginning of the world, and ever fince that time all things are come to
pafs by a regular courfe of nature; and hence it follows that there mult
be a natural and efficient means for the produdlion of all things. And,
if fo, then mull thefe things come to pafs by an earthly means alone, or
means alone, it is evident, they cannot come to pafs; for we know ex­
perimentally, that neither fire, earth, air, or water, can of themfelves in-
fufe into the rofe its grateful and fragrant fmell; it mull therefore pro­
ceed from the agency of fome fpiritual or material fubftance, far fuperior
in efficacy and virtue to any earthly element. If it proceeds from a fpi­
ritual fubftance, it is effected either by the angels, or by the foul of the
world. But by the angels we know it cannot be; for they have their pe­
culiar offices alloted them in another way; and, though they are fubjedfcs
of the world, yet are they no part of the great frame of nature, from
whence all things in their order are formed. And, if it be effected by the
foul of the world, then certainly mull there be fuch a foul fomewhere ex-
ifting, which at prefent is a matter in difpute among the learned; and this
foul mull have a fpecial feat in the world, worthy of itfelf, from whence it
may inform and aduate every minute particle of the creation. If this be
admitted, then it undoubtedly dwells among the celeftial matter, and from .
thence fupplies the earth, through the medium of the heavenly bodies,
with all that power and virtue, which brings to pafs that variety of lhape,
colour, fmell, life, and increafe, which we daily fee come to pafs. But
if this hypothefis be denied, and it is infilled that the earth is fup-
plied with all her fecret virtues by fome fupernatural material fubftance;
then name any one thing befides the heavenly matter, and the liars of
heaven, that can be fuppofed to form that fubftance, and the argument
ceafes; for either way it proves an influence and aftrology in the heavens,
beyond contradidlion, and there will remain only one queftion to be de­
cided, which is. W hether thefe celeftial influences create the fucceffion of
earthly things byan immediate power from God, or whether there exifts
No. 2. F a gene-
elfe by the aid and affiftance of fome celeftial influence. But by an earthly
Original from
m c i a / d i s m id i i r i i d d a d v
Digitized by Google
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
n
,
u
u
u
y
i
t
;
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
t
;
u
/
m
ll|j.//v
v
w
v
v
.i
i
c
i
l
i
iili
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/d
t
.
L
e
b
b
_
u
b
t
;
-
^
|J
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
a general foul in the world, through the means of which they come fO
pafs in a due order and courfe of nature ? mavis accipe; I
contend for no more. ** In the beginning God created the heaven and
the earth; and the earth was without form, and void; and darknefs was
upon the face of the deep, and the fpirit of God moved upon the face of
the waters.” Here, when there was nothing but earth and water, and
darknefs overfpread all, the fpirit of God maintained that chaotic mafs,
and managed the earth by the water, and the water and darknefs by
himfelf. But now both the earth and water are under the face of heaven,
and the light is upon this heaven, and the fpirit of God moveth upon the
face of the heavens in that light; and, as he a&uates the earth and the
waters by the h
e
a
v
e
n
s
, fo doth he aduate the heavens by himfelf. And
agreeably to this idea fpeaks the prophet Hofea, when he fays, Godwill
hear the heavens, and they Jhall hear the earth, and the earth the corn and
•wine and oil, and they JhaU hear *
Jezreel; wherein he thew
man lives by corn and wine, fo they by the earth, and the earth by the hea­
vens ; and, if fo, then by the heavens is it that the earth receives all its effi­
cacy and virtue, whereby it brings forth fmell, colour, tafte, and life.
Mofes alfo tells us, that Godfoall open his good treafure the heavens, to give
rain unto the land, and to blefs all -j- works of our hands; whence it is evi­
dent that there lodges in the celeftial influences a faculty of fortunating
civil affairs, as well as of managing natural things ; and that the root of
all earthly bleffings is from heaven. Mofes fays again, that fun, moon,
andJlars, God hath dijlributed unto all nations under heaven; and the
Pfalrnift, fpeaking of the fun and heavenly bodies, fays, they declare the
glory of God, and /hew forth his handy-work', day and night do continually
tell ofthem, and their voice is heard in all languages, and their words are
gone into the ends of the § w
o
r
l
d; by which we learn that the
and all the ftars therein, are full of fuch virtues as the whole world hath '
need of; and that thefe virtues God hath lodged in the heavens, to be
dealt out for the comfort and happinefs of his creatures upon earth. His
fpirit (faith Job) hath garnifhed the J heavens', and by the fpirit of his
mouth was the whole army of heaven piade.
The notion, or idea, that there is one general foul actuating the whole
world, as there is one foul informing every man’s body, was not only the
opinion of the Platonifts and ancient philofophers, but alfo of many
learned men in later ages; and I muft confefs, it appears very reafonable to
believe, that the world has fuch a foul. For were there not one and the
fame general living virtue, comprehending the whole fyftem of nature,
* Hofea it. 21, 22. f Deut. xxviii. 12. € Deut. iv, 19. Pfiil. xix. 3, 5.
J Job xxvi. 13. P61. xxxlii. 16.
from
Digitized by Google Original from
MPA/ v n e k ' Dl IP I Ir I IP QARV
O F A S T R O L O G Y 4 *
from the exterior circumference of the heavens tothe inmoSt centreofthe
earth, how could the fympathies and antipathies of nature poffibly work,
fuch compliances and differences as we know they do, at the amazing
distances we fee them, and without any vifible or imaginable contact ;
unlefs fome faculty exifls in the world, that is capable of fuftaining this
invisible comfpondency between one creature and another ? Where life
is, thefe things are eafily effected; as the child in the womb is nourifhed
by the food the mother eats; but in the inanimate part of the creation,
we are at a lofs which way to account for it. Now, admitting that there
really is fuch an univerfal foul existing, yet is it questionable whether
this foul be intelle&ual, or merely vegetive. That there is an intelledtnal
power informing the whole world, as the foul does the body, i9 not to be
doubted ; for otherwife the whole frame of nature would be inert and
motionlefs; but then, if we admit the foul of the world to carry this in­
tellect in its own brain, it will follow, that this foul is a God; for an
intelledual being, filling heaven and earth with its prefence, is an attri­
bute of * Gods. Hence I conclude there is an univerfal foul in the
world, but that it is only vegetive, and not intellerftual; and that in this
foul dwells the fpirit of Almighty God, whofilleth the heavens and the
earth with his prefence, and from hence garniSheth the heavens, and
caul'eth the precious influences of the fun, moon, and ftars, to be distri­
buted into all parts of the § world. And thus God rules immediately in
the heavens, but rules the world mediately by the heavens. It is true,
indeed, that God is equally well able to govern and maintain the world
without means, as he was at firft to constitute and create the frame of na­
ture; but fuch is His divine will and pleafure, that he has thought fit to
bring all things to pafs by virtue of means, as ordained from the beginning
©f the world. It is a common and true maxim, that God and nature
have made nothing in vain; and yet it is as true, that grafs and herbs
grow where no creatures live to eat -f them. Now, were the world go­
verned by God’s immediate prefence only, then would the produdtion of
this grafs and herb be a work in vain ; becaufe God’s word brings
forth all things at pleafure; and, having a power of increasing or dimi­
nishing its operation in a moment, would certainly not have brought forth
this fertility in an uninhabited and defolate country. But nature, running
her courfe by a conftant and unchangeable decree, has no power to ceafe
her work without a miracle, and therefore, though the grafs may grow in
vain, yet nature’s operations are not in vain, fince by one and the fame,
caufe it produces vegetation in all parts of the world.
* See Jer. xxiii, 23* 24, 25. § Aits xvii. 38. Job xxvi. 13,
t Job xxxviii. 26,
Deut. iv. 19.
Known
Digitized by Go<. sle Original from
MPM Dl IP I Ir I IRRARV
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Knoton untoGod are all his works, from the beginning of the * world; and
therefore it would be derogatory to the attributes of the Deity, not to be­
lieve that the minuted events of this world were forefeen and provided
for in that moft perfed: frame or model of nature, which, as we have al­
ready feen, may be compared to the conftru&ion of a watch, confiding of
piany fmall wheels, regulated by one mafter-wheel, or firft mover, which
being wound up at the creation, with the line of time, of a feemingly
infinite length, has ever fince been winding off, unto the prefent hour}
and yet is there ftill more line upon the wheel; but how much remains,
is only in the bread of the Almighty. And when this line (hall be en­
tirely wound off, then will the frame o f nature find its -f~ period, and all
fubordinate wheels will ceafe their motion. But until that time, there
is allotted in this frame of nature, unto every one that comes into the
world, a certain order or courfe of life, by which he runs through fick-
nefs and health, honour and difhonour, and all the occurrences of life,
from his cradle to the grave. For man is, as it were, a little world within
himfelf; and, though he dand but as one wheel in the frame of the great
world, yet within this one there feems many thoufands of wheels, efpe-
cially in enterprifing people, which appear to move one within another
almod ad infinitum, till the thread turned on the outer wheel break, or ,
elfe be wound off, and there they make a dop, and die. All thefe things
God, who made man at the firft, perfectly knows, and foreknew from
the beginning of the world; and, by this order of man’s life, he perfectly
knows all the paffages of our lives, and even the mod fecret thoughts of
our hearts, both deeping and J waking; and how one thought drives off
and brings on another, and continues To doing till the lad moment of our
life, when our breath fails. Now evfcry man being, as it were, a wheel
of the great world, it will follow that all men move in a certain frame or
wheel above themfelves, by virtue of which the mader-wheel of every
man’s life is put in motion; and this wheel is fubordinate unto others,
and thefe alfo unto the mader-wheel of the whole world, which is the
high and mighty wheel of heaven, wherein the fun, moon, and dars are,
fet, jo carry on the great works of nature, unto the end of time. And
hence comes the original of every man’s nativity, and of all natural qua­
lities, paffions, and incidents of our lives, except the motions of our free*
will and reafon, which may be allured and inclined by the works of na­
ture, bpt cannot be forced by them. Now above and beyond this great
wheel of nature, there is yet another § wheel, within which the heavens
themfelves are turned;- and herein is that great and hidden line of time,
whereby the whole world, with alJLits dependencies, is made to hold on
and continue its motion, unto the final end of all things ; and this ftu*
* Afls xv. 18. f 2P
eter iii. %John ii. 24, 25. § 2Cor. xii. 2, 3, 4-
' pendous
Digitized by Google Original from
M C I A / v n o t ' m ID I I n I I D D
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 43
pendous wheel is God himfelf, "Who draws out the line of time,
upon the circles of the earthy he jlretches out the heavens as a curtain, and
beholdeth all the inhabitants of the world as grafsboppers under his * fe e t;
and hence he difcerns, as.it were, with one view, all the World naked
before him, both paft, prefent, and to come.
From what has been advanced, it appears obvious that every occurrence
of our lives, and all the various produdtions of nature, however ftrange
or incomprehenfible they may appear, are brought to pafs by a regular
and efiablifhed means, decreed by the wifdom of God, at the begin­
ning of the world j and confequently, whatever happens by a contrary
effefl, muft of necefiity be produced by the immediate hand of God, and
conflitutes a miracle. Such was the cafe when the Almighty made the
fun and moon fland ffcill; and when, at the prayer of Ifaiah, he reverfed
its courfe, and made it retrograde. Such alfo were the works of our Savi­
our, when he raifed the dead, and gave fight to men born blind. And fuch
was the work of God, when the fea made a lane for men to pafs through
on dry ground ; and when the fire had no power to fcorch nor tQ burn
thofe who walked in the midfl: of *
j~ it. Thefe miracles, it is true, had
no immediate dependance upon the works of nature; and yet, as God
from the beginning faw the necefiity of them, and the occafion upon
which they would be required, it is reafonable tofuppofe he fet down in
his eternal mind the contrivance of thefe miracles, and fo ordained them
to keep pace with the works of nature, and to come to pafs at their ap­
pointed feafons, without diflurbing or deranging that univerfal frame of
the world, out of which all natural things proceed, and from whence all
the hofl of heaven derive their faculty of influencing earthly fubftances.
And that the heavenly bodies poflefs thefe influences, in an infinitely
powerful degree, I believe will not be denied, fince both fcripture and
reafon, as we have now feen, fubftantially prove them. The ancient
philofophers were unanimous in fubfcribing to this opinion, even with­
out the teftimony of the facred writings; and many very learned authors,
in later ages, have fupported the fame dodtrine. Milton gives us a very
ftriking proof of his belief of the ftarry influence, in the following paf-
fage of his Paradife Lofi::
To the blank moon
Her office they prefcrib’d; to th’other five.
Their planetary motions and afpedts.
In fextile, fquare, and trine, and oppolite.
O f noxious efficacy, and when to join
In fynod unbenign ; and taught the fix’d
* Ifaiah xl. 22, 23, &c. + See Joih. x. 12, 13. 2 Kingsxx. 11. Johnix. 6, 7. and xi. 44, 53.
Exod. xvi. 2i, 22. Dan. iii. 27.
No. 2. G Their
Original from
MCIA/ V r i D ^ D I I D I Ir I ID D A D V
Digitized by Google
44 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Their influence malignant when to Ihow’r ;
W hich of them rifing with the fun, or falling,
Should prove tempeftuous, &c.*
The ingenious Mr. Fergufon alfo proves, in a variety of inftances, an
efficiency and influence in the fun and moon, though he denies that any fuch
faculty exifts in the fixed ftars. And yet he has fhewn, by very fatisfac-
tory obfervations, that “ the fixed ftars are fo many glorious funs, with
fyftems and worlds furrounding them fimilar to our o w n a n d that
“ the Almighty would not have placed them at fuch diftances from each
other, unlefs proper objedts were near enough to be benefited by their
influences.” Hetace it follows, from his own hypothefis, that the fixed
ftars do each of them poflefs a natural -f* influence, homogeneal to the fun
and moon. But to what diftance the fixed ftars, or any of the heavenly
bodies, are capable of extending thefe influences, is beyond the power of
the moft enlightened mind to determine ;
fince the celeft
through aboundlefs and unlimited fpace, and operates upon every fub-
ftance that falls within the line of its direction. And now, having made
it apparent, by an union of concurrent teftimonies, that the fun, moon,
and ftars, have their refpedtive influences, and that an Aftrology in the
heavens does by confequence exift, it will be proper to confider how far
the ftudy of this noble fcience is compatible with our moral and religu
ous obligations, and what degree of it is attainable
ftanding.
That the ftudy and practice of Aftrology is a moral purfuit becoming
fober and religious men, may be collected from the cuftoms of the an­
cients in all enlightened countries j as well as from the beft and wifeft of
God’s chofen people. And that our all-wile and beneficent Creator
originally implanted in the frame of nature a means whereby mankind
may attain to the knowledge of fuch future contingencies as concern their
welfare and happinefs, is in no refpedt to be doubted, fince we obferve
in the brute creation, that even the moft inconfiderable creatures upon
the earth are more or lefs endowed with a gift of foreknowledge. Thus
the induftrious bee, and laborious $ant, lay in th
l'upply the neceflary wants of an inclement winter, which they foreknow
is
* See Paradife Loft, b. x. 1. 656. f See Fergufon’s Aftronomy, 6th edit. Sett. 4, 5, 8, 9, 14,
r 5, &c.
X O f all the race of reptiles, the ant, and fpider, and the bee, appear to be endowed with
the greateft fhare of fagacity. T he wifdom of the ant is-confpicuous in forming themfelves
into a kind of republic, and therein obferving, as it were, their own- peculiar laws and po­
licies. But the cunning of the fpider feems to exceed that of the moft other infetts; its various
artifices to enfnare its prey are no lefs remarkable than its contrivance of a cell or retreat
behind its web, where it feafts upon its game in fafety, and conceals the fragments of thofe
carcafits it has devoured, without expofwg to public view the leaft remains of its barbarity,
which
by the human under-
Origiral from
m c w w v n o v d i i d i 1 1 i p b a d v
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 45
is yet to come. The badger, and hedge-hog, and the mole, alfo pro­
vide themfelves a magazine of plants and herbs, which they foreknow will
enable them to lie concealed in their holes, during the hard frofts of
winter, contented with their prifon, which affords them fafety. Their
holes are alfo conftruCted with amazing art, and have generally two a-
pertures, that, in cafe one is befet by an enemy, they may cfcape by the
other. The doublings of the hare, and the tricks of the fox, to efcape
the hounds, are alfo aftonifhing indications of forefight and fagacity.
The feathered race are likewife endowed with a fimilar faculty, and often
foretel an approaching florm a confidefable time before it appears; by re­
tiring in flocks to their holes and hiding-places for fhelter and protection.
The birds of paflage feem to inherit this gift in a molt remarkable de­
gree ; for they afl'emble together in prodigious flocks, at an appointed
hour, and take their leave of us before the approach of winter, which
they forefee will deftroy the flies and other infeds upon which their own
life depends, as they feed upon nothing elfe. And it is no lefs extraor­
dinary than true,, that thefe birds return as early as the fun brings forth
this ctafs of infetls into new life; and they have alfo the fagacity to find out
and repofiefs their former nefts and * habitations. The fame provident
forecaft, for felf-prefervation and fafety, is even extended to the innume­
rable inhabitants of the immenfe ocean, where we fee the fifhes, prefied
by unceafing hunger, indiscriminately prey upon one another,, the large
upon the fmall even of its own fpecics; whence the fmaller fifh, in re­
gular gradations, when in danger of being devoured, fly for an afylum
to the Shallow waters where they know their enemy cannot or dares not
purfue them. And this purluit of one fpecies of fifh after another, is by
no means confined to a Angle region; for we find fhoals of them purfu-
ing one another, from the vicinity of the pole even down to the equator;
and thus the cod, from, the bank of Newfoundland, purfues the whiting,
which flies before it, even to the fouthern fhores of Spain. It is aftonilh-
ing alfo that herrings, which appear to generate towards the north of Scot­
land, regularly make their way, once a year, to the Britifh Channel.
Their voyage is conducted with the utmoft regularity ; and the time of
their departure is fixed from the month of June to Augurt; They always
aflemble together before they fet out, and no ftragglers are ever found
w hich m ight diftinguifh its place o f abode, or create the Ieaft jealoufy in any infefl, that their
enem y w as near, in to w hat hiftory can we look:, to find people w ho are governed by laws equal
to w hat w eobfervc in the republic of bees ? W h a t experience can we dciire beyond that w e o b -
ferve in the cunning fpider, to teach us to guard 3 gainft the artifices of thofe w ho lay fnarcs to
catch the thoughtleis and unw ary ? O r w hat can exceed the indefatigable ant in teaching us Icf-
fons o f frugality and induftry ?* W ell m ight the wife m an fay to m e ilothful and ignorant, Go, thou
Jlu gga r d y to the an t, conjider her w ays, an d be w ife.
* This has been difcovered'by tying certain m arks to their legs, or by cutting off* a claw, & c.
before they emigrate. In the enfuing fpring, if you preferve their nefts, you will find the
fame birds will inhabit them, or if you deftroy them they will icbuild in the fame place, or
near it.
1 from
Digitized by G o gle Original from
m c \ / u v n o v D i i m i r i i d d a d v
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
/
i
e
u
/
iiu
_
|j;//v
v
w
v
v
.i
idu
i
ili
ubL.ui
y/dt.Lt:bb_ubt:-ff-pu-yuuyit;
46 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
fiom the general fb
ody. It is impoffible to aflign any caufe for this
emigration, but it doubtlefsly proceeds from the fame inftindtive im-
pulfe with which all orders of animate nature are more or lefs endued.
Seeing then that the fupreme Being, in his paternal regard for the mi-
nuteft part of his works, has endued the loweft clafs of animals with a
gift of foreknowledge in what immediately concerns their fafety and
welfare; would it not be derogatory to the equal providence of God, to
fuppofe he had not ordained, in an infinitely fuperior degree, a means of
communicating foreknowledge to man, whom he hath gracioully formed
in his own exprefs image and likenefs, and appointed lord over his vaft
creation ?— A creature whom he hath endowed with a rational foul, ca­
pable of paying him adoration and worfhip ; and with an underftanding
qualified to decypher the golden characters he hath placed in the firma­
ment of heaven, for figns of thofe hidden events of futurity which are
yet to come ? If we give the fcriptu'res an attentive perufal, we fhall
find a variety of paflages to confirm this opinion, both in the old and new
Teftament. And we may gather additional evidence, that the Almighty
intended we fhould ftudy futurity, from the communications given to
Adam in Paradifeby the angel Gabriel; as well as from the commillion M i­
chael the Archangel received from God, to fhew him, in a vifion, the
principal events of futurity, from his fall, to the birth, refurre&ion, and
afcenfion, of * Chrift. And I think I am warranted to fay, from the
authority of our Saviour’s own words, tha*t there appears only one event
concerning the human race, which the Deity ever propofed to withhold
from their knowledge, and that is, the time of the laft and terrible day
of judgment. But even of this awful and fecret event, we are promifed
fome previous intimations, by figns in the fun, moon, ;£ and ftars ;
.which are the common fignificators of all inferior tranfaClions of futurity.-
For this reafon we are told to watch,
for no man
thefe thingsfhall come ; therefore thofe who ftudy the fydereal fcience, by
their watchfulnefs of the heavenly bodies, and their capability of difco-
vering fuch figns in the fun, moon, and ftars, whenever thetremendous
fiat fhall be paft, will be the firft to know that the vifitation of God is
at hand ; whilft thofe who condemn both the fcience and its profeftors,
unprepared by any previous intimation, and folded in the arms of
incautious repofe, will find the fatal hour approach like a thief intbe
4 See B rookes’s N a t. H ill. 2d. edit. i2 m o . ro l. i. p. 25. In tro d . vol. ii. p . 168. vol. iii. p . 2,
4. vol. vi. p. 9, 2o.
* See M ilto n ’s Paradife L o ft, B ooks v. vi. vii. viii. xi. and xii. A dam for this purpofe is faid
to be taken up to the top of an high hill, by M ichael, w ho addreftes him in thefe lin e s:
A dam afeend
T h is hill ; let E ve, (for I have drench’d her eyes)
H ere fleep b elo w , w hile thou to f
o
r
e
f
i
w ak’f t ;
A s once thou fleptft, w hile (he to life w as form ’d.
J M a tt. x x iv . 29, 36. M a rk xiii. 24, 25, 3*. L u k e xxi. 25.
night;
Digitized by ( j O O Q l 0
Original from
M P U f v n p t ' D I I D I i r I I R B A D V
night§ •, when petrified and motionlefs, in bitter anguifli and defpair,
they will too late repent their negligence and incredulity.
Now if we confider Aftrology, what it truly is, a legal and virtuous
ftudy, we may eafily believe the accounts transmitted to us by Jofephus
and other hiftorians,' concerning its antiquity and divine original. We
have already leen that Adam, previous to his expulfion from Paradife, was
inftru&ed in a foreknowledge of futurity, by the exprefs command of
God, as a means of enlarginghis mind, and alleviating his diftrefs, upon
being turned adrift into the wide world. Jofephus, an hiftorian of cha­
racter and eminence, who quotes the moll ancient authors of refpeflability
for what he alTerts, confirms the fame thing, and further informs us, that
Adam, before his death, inftrudted his fon Seth in this fcience, who after­
wards engraved the rudiments of it upon permanent pillars of ftone, which
endured through many generations, and were not entirely effaced till fome
time after the * deluge. We have it from the fame authority, that the
art was taught by Enos and Noah, who preferved it to the days of Abra­
ham, and he increafed the knowledge of it by divine aids, teaching it to
the Chaldeans and Egyptians. Jofeph is alfo faid to have patronifed and
§ I w ould recom m end a ferious and attentive perufal o f thefe fcriptures to every perfon w ho
has doubts concerning the do& rine of A ftrology. It is here pointed out, to the underftanding
o f the m oft unlettered part o f m ankind, that the great and terrible day of the L o rd , the day of
judgm ent, will m oft anuredly com e. O u r S aviour’s difciples enquire of him , W h e n this day
fhall be ? H e replies, <4 O f that ’day and hour know eth no m an, no no t the angels w hich are
“ in heaven, neither the S on, but the F ath er o n ly .” T h e y alfo afk, W h atfh all be the figns
hereof ? T h e y are told, w T h e re fhall be figns in the fun, in the m oon, and in the ftars ; the
4< fun fhall be darkened, and the m oon fhall not give her light ; and upon the earth diftrefs of
iC nations, w ith p e rp le x ity ; the fea and the w aves roaring ; w ith great earthquakes in divers
<l places, and fam ines, and peftilences ; fearful fights and great figns fhall there alfo be in the
<c heavens. W a tc h , therefore, far in an hour w hen ye think n o t fhall thefe things com e for
w as, in the days that w ere before the flood, they w ere eating and drinking, m arrying and giv-
<c ing in m arriage, until the day that N oah entered the ark ; and they knew n o t, until the flood
M cam e and took them aw ay > fo alfo fhall the com ing of the S on o f m an be. T h e n fhall he
<l fend forth his angels, and fhall gather together his eletft from the four w inds, from the u tter-
4< m oft part o f the earth, to the utterm oft p art o f heaven ; then fhall tw o be in afield, the one
w {hall be taken, and the other left ; tw o w om en fhall be grinding at the m ill, the one fhall be ta-
c< ken, and the other left. T h erefo re be ye ready, left, com ing, he find you fleeping ; and w hat
<c I lay to you, I fay unto all, W a t c h . ” N o w it is clear, from the above, that figns o f great
and direful events are difcoverable not only by the celeftial bodies, but alfo by fearful fights in
the heavens ; by trem endous earthquakes ; by total eclipfes of the tw o great lum inaries, w hich
deprive them , for a tim e, of the pow er of giving lig h t; and by other extraordinary phenom ena*
w hich fhould alw ays be attended to w ith reverence and aw e. T h efe figns our Saviour inform ed
his difciples fhould precede the deftru& ion of Jerufalem ; and aftrologers, and other hiftorians,
have born record of the exadt com pletion o f this p ro p h e c y ; and it m uft be felf-evident to ev e­
ry thinking m ind, that the laft day w ill com e to pafs exactly in the w ay our Saviour has dc-
feribed it. T h o fe, therefore, w ho w atch the heavenly configurations, and learn to underftand
the figns our Saviour fpeaks of, w ill be tim ely inform ed of the approach of this direful day, and
found prepared, by repentance and hum ility of heart, to be gathered w ith G o d ’s ele<ft ; w hile un­
believing and im penitent m en, given up to fenfual and carelefs habits, will be found fleeping
w hen the avenger com eth. “ In that day the ftouteft heart will trem ble, and the countenance o f
the proudeft m an will fall, before the face of^ an inCenfed D e ity ,” See M atth . xxiv.
M ark. xiii. and L u k e x x ;$ * See Jof. A n t. lib. i. cap. 4, 8, iz , & c.
No. 2. H taught
Digitized by Google Original from
M c i h t v n D i i m 1r 1 i r r a b v
v
j
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
iy
iu
z
t
?
u
/
i
ill
|
j
;//
wvvvv
.
i
idu
mi
ubt.ui
y/dt.Lebb_Ubt;-w-pu-yuuy
le
48 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
taught it in Egypt, and is fuppofed by Origcn, Diodorus Siculus, and
other ancient hiftorians, to have been the author of an aftrological work,
called. The Aphorifms of Hermes the *
j* Egyptian. Mofes afterwards
taught and profefled it, independent of the gift of prophecy, which al­
ways came by divine infpiration, and confequently was only exercifed
upon certain extraordinary occafions. From Mofes, we are told, the pro­
phets and feers had it; and that it was afterwards particularly taught
among the tribe of Iflachar, who are on that account (tiled in the facred
writings, Men whohad underjlanding in, and were expert at re­
viving all queftions concerning futurity; and as this tribe were neither
priefts nor Levites, nor endued with the fpirit of prophecy, it follows
that their underjlanding in the times, and their ability in foretelling future
events, arofe entirely from an acquired knowledge of the figns and influ­
ences of the heavenly bodies. For the fame reafon the Perfian aftrologers
were called mages, or wife men, who were (killed in the times; and the
Chaldeans termed their young ftudents in aftrology, MenJkilled in ivifdom
and cunning §fcience, to learn the learning ofthe Chaldeans. And, after the
Chaldean method of ftudying the fcience of aftrology, Daniel, and Shad-
rach, and Mefech, and Abednego, were inftruCted by their tutor Melzar,
and became ten times more learned in all matters and underjlanding
than all the ajlrologers in the r
e
a
l
m
, in confideration of which
elected members of the public * fchools at Babylon, which were founded
for the ftudy of this a rt; and Daniel was made, by the, king’s decree,
mafter over the Chaldean || aftrologers.
In the days of Samuel, it appears to have been a common cuftom to go
to the feers, or men of underftanding in the times, not only to be inform­
ed concerning future contingencies, but alfo to enquire after loft goods..
To this effect we find Saul and his fervants difeourfing, when they were
fent out to find the ftrayed afles of Kiftt, Saul’s father; and, not being able
to find them, the fervant propofes to go and enquire of the leer, which way
the afles were gone, and where they may be found. Saul agrees to this, but
(ks, What have we to give him ? we have no bread , nor have we any
ufjicient prefent. The fervant replies, I have afourth part of a
fiv e r; I'll give him that. Saul anfwers. ; let ** us go. This
paflages enables us to diftinguifh between the gift of prophecy, for the
purpofes of eftablilhing God’s true religion, and the art of anfwering ho­
rary queftions, and predicting future events. The one was evidently ef­
fected by fupernatural means, and promulgated to the people without
4 O rig . tom . in G e n . D iod. Sic. lib.i. cap. 1. | 1 C h ro n . xii. 32. § E fth. i. 13. D a n . i. 4 .
* In fom e of thefe fchools A bram is faid to have been ta u g h t; and that B elus, the father of
N im rody afterw ard s built the fchooU houfe w here D aniel w as in ftru fled in this fcience. See
Jof. A n t. lib. i. cap. 8. D iod. Sic. lib. i. cap. 8.
1 Dan* i. 4, 5, 11, 17, 18, 1$, 2o> ii. 13. v. 11. ** 1 Sam. ix. 6, 7, 8, 10.
i expence;
k.
D
3 Digitized by Google Original from
klClJU V n R k ' Dl ID I Ir I I R B A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y , 49
expence j whilft the other, by being calculated for the benefit of rcfpec-
tive individuals, was always accompanied with money or prefents. In
the fame way we find David, when in Keilah, where he heard that Saul
was coming to befiege him, was defirous of knowing the truth, whether
Saul was coming or notj and if he was. Whether the men of Keilah would
be true to him, or would betray him. And being informed they would
betray him into the hands of the enemy, who were feeking his life, he
fled into the wildernefs of Ziph, and efcaped the danger that was im­
pending over-j-him. And in the New Teftament alfo, we have fre­
quent confirmations of the meteorological part of this fcience, from our
Saviour’s own words, in his converfation with the pharifees, who were
all verfed in aftrology. He addrefles them to this effed : “ When it is
** evening, ye fay, it will be fair weather, becaufe the fky is red ; and
" in the morning it will be foul weather, becaufe the fky is red and
“ lowering. And, when a cloud arifeth out of the weft, ltraightway ye
fay, A fhower cometh; and it is fo. And, when ye fee the fouth-wind
*
* blow, ye fay. There will be heat j and fo it comes to pafs. Ye hy-
** pocrites, ye can difcern the face of the || fky, but the figns of the times
**ye cannot difcern.” And now, if we impartially contemplate the
origin and antiquity of this fcience, and recoiled: that the beft andwifeft
men in every age of the world were profeflbrs of it, we muft admit its
practice to be highly confiftent with all our moral and religious duties.
That the human undetftanding is alfo capable of attaining to a very
high degree of knowledge in the hidden works of futurity, and in the
fecret operations of nature, is likewife to be proved, beyond the power
of contradiction. Indeed the paffages already quoted from the holy
fcriptures are a fufficient confirmation of it to every difpaffionate-reader;
but, as there are fome very extraordinary inftances of this predidtive fa­
culty recorded by different hiftorians, I will juft mention a few of
them, by way of corrobating the evidence already brought in its fup-
port. ’I he Emperor Domitian required the profeffor Largius Proculus
to calculate his nativity, from the fuppofed time of his birth, which was
done, and delivered into the emperor’s own hands. Afclatarius, a moft
famous aftrologer of thofe times, procuring a copy of this nativity, rec­
tified it, and foretold the hour and manner of the emperor’s death; which
when Domitian heard, he commanded Afclatarius to be brought before
him, when he affirmed his predidions would prove true. Domitian aflc-
ed him if he could foretel the manner of his own death ? Afclatarius re­
plied, That he knew he ftiould ffiortly be torn in pieces by dogs ; but, to
confute the aftrologer, the emperor ordered him to be burnt alive. The
cruel fentence was accordingly put in execution; his body was bound and
ir 1Sam. xxiii. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. |fSee Matth, xvi. a Lukexii. 24, 55, 56.
laid
Digitized by Go*,'file Original from
m c u / v n c v Diim i r 1 i d d a d v
5o A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
laid upon the pile, and the fire kindled; but at that inftant there arofea
dreadful ftorm of wind and rain, which drove the fpeclators away, and
extinguifhcd the fire; and Afclatarius was afterwards torn in pieces by
dogs, as he had foretold. When Latinus informed the emperor of this
event, he was greatly mortified, and very'melancholy; and, on the day his
aflaflination had been predicted, he feigned himfelf indifpofed, and locked
hinnfelf up in his chamber. Stephanus, the captain of his guards, went to
his door, pretending he had received fome important difpatches, which
he wanted to deliver to him; but, Domitian declining to admit him till a
certain hour was part, Stephanus perfuaded him it was then much later
than the time fpecified. The emperor, in confequence, concluding the
danger to have palled by with the hour, or looking upon the predidtion as a
mere fable, feeing no confpiracy or danger about him, opened the door,
upon which Stephanus fteppedupto him with a drawn dagger, and ftabbed
him to the heart, in the very hour that had been predicted by the aftro-
loger, on the eighteenth day of September, the month he had ordered to
be called * Germanicus. The fame writers add, that Apollonius Tyaneus
was at that inftant of time at Ephefus, Handing in the prefence of the
magiftrates, and in a kind of ecftacy cried out, O Stephanus, ftrike the
tyrant; and after a paufe added, ’Tis well, thou haft killed him. This art
of re&ifying nativities, a difcovery which brought the fcience to very
high perfedtion, and has enabled its profeflors to be aftonifhingly exadt in
predictions of confequence. Thus Lucius Tarutius Firmianus, by the
aCts of Romulus’s life, and the time of his death, found that he was born
in the firft year of the fecond Olympiad, the twenty-third day of the
month about lun-rifing. And hence he difcovered that the building of
Romewas begun when the Moon was in Libra, theSun with Mercury, and
Venus in Taurus, Jupiter in Pifces, and Saturn with Mars in -j- Scorpio.
The Archbifhop of Pifa confulted feveral different profelfors of aftrology
concerning his deftiny, and they all calculated his nativity at different
times, and without any communication with one another; but they all
foretold him he would be hanged. It feemed highly incredible at the
time, becaufe he wasinfomuch honourand power; but theevent juftified
the predictions; for in the fedition of Pope Sextius IV. in the fudden
rage and uproar of the people he was ieized and J; hanged. Petrus
Leontius, a celebrated phyfician and aftrologer of Spoletanum,cafthis own
nativity, and foretold that his death would be occafioned by water, and
many years afterwards he was found drowned in a pond, into which he
had fallen the preceding night, by miftaking his § way. Jofephus tells us
.he caft the nativities of Vefpafian, and his fon Titus, and predicted that
they would both be emperors; and fo it turned out. R. Cervifius
* Vid. S ueton. in D o m itian . f Vid. P eucer dc Divinat. fe£t. deAftrolog. %Vid. Annal.
Florewin. $ jovios, £k>g. 35.
calculated
Original from
M C I A / D V Dl ID I I f" I I D D A D V
itized by Goc ole
O F A S T R O L O G Y . $t
calculated the nativity of his fon Marcellus, and foretold that he (hould
come to great preferment and dignity in the church ; and, his mother
afterwards entreating him to marry one CafTandra Benna, he very refo-
lutely declined it, faying. He would not with the bands of matrimony bind
himfelf from that better fortune which the liars had promifed him if
he continued to live Angle and unmarried. And he was afterwards really
made Pope*. Picus Mirandula was a fevere writer againft Aftrology,
infomuch that he was termed, Flagellum Aftrologorum ; and, to flop the
malignity of his pen, Lucius Bellantius, and two other aflrologers of
eminence, procured the time of his birth, and calculated his nativity,
which they afterwards fent him, with this prediction inclofed, “ That he
would die in the thirty-third year of his age.” This exafperated him fo
much, that he began to write a new trail, with inconceivable afperity,
againft the poor aflrologers, attempting to prove their calculations a mere
bubble, and themfelves a fet of impoftors. But, when the fatal ap­
pointed hour arrived, he faw the folly of his own conceits; recanted his
opinion, and fealed by his death a Handing memorial of the inerrability
and truth of this fcience. Many other extraordinary circumflances of
the kind might be related from different authors, were it not already
fufliciently obvious that the intellectual faculties of man, when culti­
vated by fludy, and improved by obfervation and experience, are capable
of attaining a very extenfive degree of knowledge and fkill in this art.
We will therefore difmifs this argument, and endeavour to exolain what
the fubjeds are that the fcience of Aflrology naturally comprehends.
Aftrology is compounded of «o^p
, Jlar> and x
o
r«
5
, and literally
implies,fhe doSlrineof the J
i
a
r
s
; teaching how to judge of their e
and fecret influences, and to foretel future events, by the order of their
different afpeds, qualities, and pofitions j and alfo how to difeover their
energy and force upon earthly fubflances, in the wonderful and abflrufe
operations of the nature. It comprehends the mofl excellent part of that
noble fcience called Phyfiology, or natural Philofophy, which is the doc­
trine of natural bodies in the conflrudion of the works of nature. The
body natural may be conceived either generally, as one perfed and entire
body; or fpecially, as it may be divided into two, or fubdivided into
many thoufand component parts. This grand and perfed body of na­
ture is called the World, or the whole world, which is generally confi-
dered as making but one entire body ; but this general body admits of
many fpecial divifions and fubdivifions j and is firft divided into two
* V id. T h u a n . 1. 15. It is rem arkable th at this predi& ion w as printed at V enice, and pu b -
liflied by C urtius T ro jan u s, in a book of nativities w ritten by G auricus, upw ards of three
years before M arcellus C ervinus was proclaim ed P o p e. A nd this is that P ope, w ho, w hen the
L e& urer, as the cuilom w as, read a certain portion o f the w ritings of the F athers at dinner­
tim e, faid, 4C H e could not conceive how thofe w ho held i‘o high a place could provide
for their ow n falvation.”
iN'o. 3. I branches
Digitized by Google Original from
MCWU V O R V Dl ID ■ If" I I P D A R V
52 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
branches, making one body natural called Celeftial, and another calld
Terreftial; and hence arife two diftindt fciences, the one termed Ura-
nology, and the other Geology.
Geology is a fcience treating of the natural body called the earth, and
fpeaks either generally of the whole earth, or fpecially of the parts, or fome
„ particular part, thereof; and is either fpeculative, or praftical. Specu­
lative. Geology confifts in the fimple inveftigation of the earth, either
in whole, or in part, and of the principles and aifedlions thereof.; and to
•this purpofe it treats either of the common being of any earthly thing,
merely as it is a being abftradt from all matter, whether intelligible, or
fenfible ; and as it operates thus, it is termed Metaphyfical or Preter­
natural Philofophy. But, if it difcourfes of a movable being in matter,
and that as it is perfe&ly material, it is then called Natural Philofophy.
Or, if it fpeaks of things converfant in matter intelligible, but not fen­
fible, as they are the abftradts of matter, it is named Mathematical or
Abftratt Philofophy. Of this fort of fcience the fubjedt is Quantity,
and is either continued, or difcrete. If,o f continued quantity, it is
called Geometry, or its fubordinate, Perfpedtive ; but if the quantity be
difcrete, it is then termed Arithmetic,-or its fubordinate, Mufic. Na­
tural Philofophy properly fo called, -treats of terreftrial bodies, either
fimple or mixed. The fimple bodies confift of the four elements,
called Fire, Air, Earth, and Water, which occupy all places, from the
utmoft and inferior bodies .of -the heavenly matter unto the inmoft cen­
tre of the earth; fo that-vacuum no where exifts under the cope of
heaven. The mixed bodies are compounded of thefe four elements, and
are divided into animate and inanimate bodies. And all animate bodies
are endued either with a,vegetive, fenfitive, or rational, faculty. Now,
while we ftudy the dodtrine of this earthly body natural, the fciences of
Geography, Hiftory, and Chronology, naturally flow from i t : the firft
of which defcribes the fituation and boundaries of the different parts of
the earth ; the fecond relates the hiftory of whatever has been feen or
tranfadled upon it; and the third computes and adjuftsall the different
,a;ras and portions of time, from the creation of the world to the pre-*
fent hour. And fubordinate to thefe are Topography, or a defcription of
particular places, and Chronologies of certain diftindt periods of time.
Pradtical Geology is that part 'of natural Philofophy which confifts in
Speculation, for the profit and advantage of mankind ; and leaves a track
or fruit of its operation remaining, when the adt itfelf is paft and gone.
And this is a fort of ftudy clafled under the denomination of Art, rather
than of Science. The fubjedt of it muft be either Man himfelf, or fome
fubordinate fubftance. If Man be the fubjedt of inveftigation, then the
objedt will be to teach him precepts of morality ; and this we call
Ethical
Original from
MClJhf V r ^ D IS n i I DI I r ' ■ i n n a n w
Digitized by Google
O P A S T R O L O G Y . 53
Ethical Philofophy j orelfe to inftru&him in the Art of Reafoning, called
Logical Philofophy ; or in the Art of Speaking, which we term Gram­
matical or Rhetorical Philofophy. But, if the Speculation be upon any
fubordinate fubftance, then the Earth itfelf, or the productions of it,
become the fubjcft of inveftigation. If it be the Earth, then the bufi-
nefs we contemplate, is to improve and cultivate the foil, for the en-
creafe of ufeful vegetation, which is called Agriculture $ but, if it be the
productions of the earth, then the ftudy mutt be fo to prepare and manu­
facture them, as to render them the effentials of Health, Wealth, Food,
or Cloathing; or whatever elfe is conductive to the comforts or neceffi-
ties of mankind. And thefe are feverally diftinguilhed by as many fig—
nificant Terms as there are occupations or employments, by the inven­
tion and ufe of which all thefe things are produced.
Uranology is a Science which treats of the natural body of Heaven*
after the fame manner as Geology deferibes that of the Earth ; and fpeak8
either generally, of the whole Heaven ; or fpecially, of fome particular
or diftinCt part of it. And, as Uranology is a part of Phyfiology, fo has
it the fame principles, whether internal, as Matter and Form ; or ex­
ternal, as thecaufes Efficient and Final; and thefe are Principles of their
own nature, as Chance and Fortune are Principles by accident. It hath
alfo affeClions internal, as Motion and Reft, and Finity and Infinity j
and the fame external, as Time and Place. Uranology is alfo either
fpeculative or pra&ical. Speculative Uranology confifts in the Ample
knowledge of the Heavens, either in whole or in part, and of their
various Principles and AffeCtions j and to this purpofe it fpeaks of thefe
things either mathematically or naturally. Mathematically, it treats
of Aftronomy, or Uranometry, which is a fcience that points out the
magnitude, meafure, and motion, of the heavens, and of the ftars there­
in ; and naturally, it defines the qualities, motions, afpeCts, and opera­
tions, of the heavenly Bodies, and all their apparent and infenfible in­
fluences. Praftical Uranology is that fublime Art, which, being once
perfectly known and rightly underftood, enables a man, by his fkill in
the affeCtions of the Heavens and heavenly Bodies, to unbofom the re-
moteft tranfaCtions of futurity, and to trace the myftcrious and mod
obfeure operations of Nature to their fource j whence he defines the in­
nate principles and virtues of all animal, vegetable, and mineral, fub-
ftances, and points their refpeCtive ufes, for the lafting profit and ad­
vantage of mankind.
Having thus Ihewn what the word Aftrology imports, and arranged its
component parts by the rules of Science, it will be feen that its colla­
teral branches are fo extenfive and multitudinous, that mod men, of any
3 learning
Original from
KIPA/ Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
54
learning or ingenuity at all, are Tome way or other converfant in aftro-
logy, without appearing to know it. But the perverfenefs of human
nature is in this inftance mod ftrikingly vilible, fince it leads mankind
to a choice of inferior fpeculations, whilft they utterly negleCt an invefti-
gation of thofe curious, indifcernible, infenfible, and impalpable, tracks
of nature, which open to a field of unbounded information, calculated to
reform the mind, and enlarge the underftanding ; and to extirpate the
feeds of atheifm, by leading to the mod fublime and heavenly contem­
plations of a Supreme Being. The common objections againft engaging
in this elevated ftudy are equally abfurd and ridiculous ; but they pro­
ceed only from thofe men who wilfully negleCt, or obftinately perfift in
a difbelief of. Nature’s fecret and imperceptible works ; and yet her ope­
rations are fo manifeft, and fo often confirmed by fatal experience, that
it is aftonifhing mankind are not more frequently awakened by them.
Thus we fee a man inftantaneoufly taken off, by a violent and feverifh
diftemper, and yet no one can poflibly conceive how or from what caufe
it proceeds ;
nor can the moil able phyfician, by anydepth of medical /kill,
point out its genuine caufe, fo as to fhew that another man under the
fame fymptoms fhall be feized with juft fuch another diforder. But
look into the fick man’s nativity, by the rules of Aftrology, and there
ypu will mod apparently fee the root and caufe of his affliction : and
hence we demonftrably prove, that it was not fo much the effeCt of
catching cold, or of any accident, which brought on the malady, but
the evil influence of fome malignant afpeCt, that unperceived and unfuf-
pcfled gave the fatal blow, while a cold, or fome trifling accident, were
but mere inftruments ; for another man fhall have a worfe cold, and
fcarcely find himfelf the leaft feverifh, or expofed to danger;
Thus we find Aftrology comprehends every operation that proceeds out
of the mafter-wheel or frame of Nature, and furnifhes us with a know­
ledge of the occult virtues of all earthly fubftances, and of the nature and
end of every particle of God’s Creation ; and, to minds that can relifh
enjoyments fuperior to thofe of fenfe, nothing can furnifh more noble
and exalted pleafures than a contemplation and ftudy of thefe immenfe
works ; while nothing furely can give greater proof's of an abjeCt and
contracted mind, than to be daily converfant with, and yet ftupidly in­
fenfible of, the amazing miracles of nature. The fun, moon, and ftars,
were not made by a wife and beneficent Creator, that the wonders of
them fhould open themfelves to eyes that fee not, or difplay their in­
fluences unregarded to the incurious inhabitants of the earth. It was in­
deed principally for the pleafure of Him by whom all things exift, that
they arc and were created; who rejoiceth in his works—in furveying that
ftrutture which omnipotence alone could raife; but they are likewife de-
figned
Digitized by Google Original from
M P / i f v n e k ' Dl IP I Ir I I R P A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 55
figned to communicate wifdom and happinefs, and intelle&ual and mo­
ral improvement, to mankind. And to him, who is not barely fatisfied
with an external admiration of things, they will fuggcft fuch reflexions
as will make him both wifer and better ; for, at the fame time that they
feaft his imagination, they will enlarge his underftanding, and meliorate his
heart. Whatever part ofthe works of nature we caft our eyes upon, we {hall
find imprinted therein ample lefl'ons of ioftruCtion and improvement.
Would we comtemplate the inexpreffible greatnefs and majefty of God, let
us but look up and furvey the heavens, which are fpread over us like a cur­
tain; they declare the glory of God, and work—they vifi-
bly £hew it forth to the rude and illiterate ; but the mind which is fraught
with thiscomprehenfive ftudy may for ever expand itfelf in the immenfity
of the profpeX. Even the irrational and inanimate part of the creation
arc held forth by the wifdom of God to direX the Beings of Reafon in
the way that they {hould go ; and our Saviour in his parables defeends to
the lifelefs emblems of feed fown, of the fig-tree, and of a Angle grain
of muftard-feed, toenlighten the underftandingof mankind. Is it not then
the duty of every rational creature to improve by this divine example, and,
by a ftudy of that excellent part of Aftrology called natural philofophy,
to increafe.our imperfeX knowledge in the fubjeXs of creation? Such
knowledge as this lies open even to the way-faring man ; it grows in every
field, and meets us in all our paths; and, as it is moft important to be
well underftood by the reader before any material progrefs can be made
in the Aftrology of the heavens, I {hall conclude thefe obfervations with
a fliort introduction to the ftudy of Nature.
K A Summary
Digitized by Google Original from
M P 1
A/ V f l D V DI IDI I T I I D D
5$ A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A Summary V IE W of the W O R K S of C R E A T I O N , in the
C O N S T R U C T I O N of N A T U R E .
N
ATURE is that which God has ordained Emprefs over all the
Works of his Creation, and over every part of the Celeftial and
Terreftrial World. This world comprehends both the Heaven and
the Earth, and is compounded of three fcparate and diftindt parts, which
are all'o called Worlds, namely, an Elementary world, which is the low-
eft in dignity; a Celeftial world, which is next above the elementary;
and an Etherial world, which is the higheft of all ; and thefe three lefs
worlds, make the one entire Great World. In the order of Nature, the
all-wile and fupreme Being has ordained that every inferior Ihould be
governed by its fuperior; and by this eternal decree, the Intellectual
world aduates and governs the Celeftial, which confifts of the fun,
moon, and ftars, and all the holt of heaven; and the Celeftial world
aduates and governs the Elementary world, and all elementary bodies,
whether animal, mineral, or vegetable.
The Elementary world is compofed of the four elements, Fire, Air,
Earth, and Water, of which all things peculiar to the elementary world
are generated; but thele elements, in the ftate wecommonly find them, are
not pure, butintermixed with each other; and they often change oneinto
the other by nature, as fire turns into fmoke, and fmoke into air, and air
into water, &c. Each of thefe elements has likewife two fpecific qua­
lities, viz. fire is hot and dry, water is cold and moift, air is hot and
moift, and the earth is cold and dry j fo that fire is inimical to water,
and air to earth. Thefe elements alfo pofTefs three eflential proper­
ties inherent in themfelves, viz. air has motion, thinnefs, and darknefs;
fire has motion, brightnefs, and thinnefs ; water has motion, darknefs,
and thicknefs; and earth has darknefs, thicknefs, and quietnefs ; fo that
fire is twice more thin than air, thrice more moveable, and four times
more bright ; air is twice more bright, three times more thin, and four
times more moveable, than water ; water is twice more bright, thrice
more thin, and four times more moveable, than earth ; as therefore fire is
to air, fo is air to water, and water to earth ; and vice , as earth is to
water, fo is water to air, and air to fire. Three of thefe elements have
motion, and are aCtive ; but the earth is fixed and pafiive, and only fup-
plies matter for the other elements to aCt upon ; for as nothing can be
produced unlefs matter be fubminiftered, fo of neceffity one element
muft fubminifter that matter for the operation of the others : and no
influence could be difpenfed by the heavens, unlefs there were elementary
bodies
Digitized by Got. sle Original from
M
C
U
/ vnDF D
l IPIIr IIDDA
D
V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 57
bodies to receive their influence j therefore every adtive principle muft of
neceflity be in motion, and every paflive principle muft be at.reft. And
accordingly, as the a&ive elements find the earth that they a<ft upon
to be pure, or impure, fo will the work be that is produced. The
earth can bring forth nothing of itfelf, but is the womb or matrix into
which the other elements diftil or projed their feminal virtues ; and in
proportion as it is impregnated by their force and energy, it brings forth,
according to the due courfc of nature. The Earth alfo receives the cc-
leftial rays and influences of all the heavenly bodies, as ordained by God,
to be the objedt, fubjedt, and receptacle of them ; whereby it not only
brings forth what is intended to be produced, but alfo multiplies what-
it receives, and feparates the good from the bad, and the pure from the
impure. It likewife contains the feeds or feminal virtues of all elemen­
tary bodies, and hath a triplicity in itfelf, viz. mineral, animal, and ve-
getive. It is the common fountain or mother from whence all things
fpring, whofe fruitfulnefs is produced by the three-fold operation of fire,,
air, and water. And, as thefe elementary bodies poflefs moft extraordi­
nary qualities, it will be proper to confider each of them diftindtly, and.
to explain their feveral properties more at large.
Fire, the firft adtive element, is an el^ftic body, compofed of infinite­
ly fmall particles, fcarcely, if at all, adhering to each other, and a body in
motion. It is in efFed, the univerfal inftrument of all the motion and.
adtion in the univerfe j without fire, all bodies would become immove­
able, as in a fevere winter we adtually fee our fluids become folid for want
of it. Without fire a man w'ould harden into a ftatue, and the very air
would cohere into a firm rigid mafs. Fire then is the foie caufe of all.
mutation or changej for all mutation is by motion, and all motion by
fire. Upon the abfence of only a certain degree of fire, all oils, fats,
waters, wines, ales, fpirits of wine, vegetables, and animals, become,,
hard, rigid, and inert; and the lefs the degree of fire, the fooner is this
induration made. Hence, if there were the greateft degree of cold, and
all fire was abfolutely taken away, all nature would grow into one con­
crete body, folid a$ gold, and hard as diamond; but upon the re-ap­
plication of fire, it would recover its former mobility. So that upon
this one element of fire, depends all fluidity of humours and juices; alfo
all vegetation, putrefadion, fermentation, animal heat, and a thoufand
other things. Fire is in itfelf but one, though it centers in divers places.
It centers in the heavens, and is boundlels, where it guards and pre-
ferves nature, and enlivens all the creation, giving life, light, and mo­
tion, to ail creatures, and ftirs them up to tecundity and fruitfulnefs. It
centers alfo in the earth, where it generates metals, minerals, and ftones ;
and, by joining itfelf with the beams of the celeftial fun and moon, pro­
duces
g
m
z
e
db
yGoogle Original from
mcmj vnck' d
i im ir i i
u
u
i
i
id
1
1
1
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
iu^t:u
/
i
ill|j.//v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
i
o
l
i
i
i
li
ubi.ur
y/ci
LL
t:
b
i_u
ie-
w
-p
u-
yu
u
y
it;
58 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
duces vegetation upon the furface of the earth. It occasions that heat
we fometimes obferve in fprings and fountains ; and imparts a principle
of its own into whatever it produces, fo that whatfoever retains life re­
tains it by virtue of its own inclofed heat; and, whenever this is exhauft-
ed or extinguilhed, it perilhes and dies. And, as water purgeth, cleanfeth,
and difiblveth, all things that are not fixed, fo fire purgeth and perfeCteth
all things that are fixed ; and, as water conjoins all things that are dif-
folved, fo fire feparates all things that are conjoined j it caufes all feeds to
grow and ripen ; and, when they are ripe, it expels them by the fperm
into divers places of the earth ; and, as the fituation and temperature of
thefe places are, whether hot or cold, moift or dry, pure or impure, fo
will the diverfity of things be both in the bowels, and upon the furface of
the earth. But, amongft all the wonderful properties of fire, there are
none more extraordinary than this ; That, though it is the principal caufe
of almoft all the fenfible effefts that continually fall under our obferva-
tion, yet it is in itfelf of fo infinitely a fubtle nature, that it baffles or de­
feats our moft fagacious enquiries, nor ever comes within the cogni­
zance of our fenfes.
Fire may be divided into three kinds or fpecies, viz. celeftial, fubterra-
neous, and culinary. Celeftial fire is that which is peculiar to the celeftial
regions, where it exifts in the greateft purity and perfection, unmixed
with fmoke, or any of that grofs, feculent, or terreftial matter, found in
culinary and fubterranean fire ; but allowing for this difference, the effects
of the celeftial fire appear to be the fame as thofe of the culinary. Sub­
terraneous fire is that which manifefts itfelf in fiery eruptions of the earth,
volcanoes, or burning mountains, and is always found in the more central
parts of the earth, and often in mines and coal-pits. Culinary fire is that
which we employ in all chemical operations, and in the common occafions
•of life. To afcertain the force and power of fire, the learned Boerhaave
made innumerable curious experiments, which enabled him to divide it
into fix degrees. The firft degree is that by which nature performs the
office of vegetation in plants, and by which chemiftry imitates and does
the like. This commences from the higheft degree of cold, which in
Fahrenheit’s thermometer is denoted by one; and ends at eighty degrees,
fince in this whole interval vegetables of one kind or other give indication
of life and growth; fo that if all plants be examined by the degrees of
heat contained within thefe limits, we fhall find all of them come to ma­
turity in one or.other of thefe intermediate degrees. This heat is fuited
to extracting the native fpirits of odoriferous vegetables with oils, as that
of rofes, jeffamin, and the like. Thus the fragrant feeftt of rofes may be
-communicated to oil, by putting the inodorous and infipid oil of olives in a
ttall clean chemical glafs, and digefting it in a heat of fifty-fix degrees*
with
Digitized by Got ole Original from
M P W V n D k " Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 57
with the mod fragrant rofes, gathered juft as they are opening in a m orn­
ing; the application of a fimilar degree of heat would alfo impregnate
alcohol with the pureft fpirit of faffron. The fecond degree of fire may
be accounted that of the human body in a healthy date. This degree is
always greater than that of the ambient air, and may be fuppofed to
commence at the 40th degree of the thermometer, and end about the
94th. W ithin this compafs animals may live and fubfift, that is, if their
juices be of any degree of heat within thefe bounds. The eggs of infeefts
fubfift unhurt during hard winters, and hatch in the fucceeding fpring.
Fifties, both of the fea and of rivers, live in water which is only thirty-
four degrees warm ; and fifties that have lungs, and all refpiring animals
in a date of health, communicate to their humours a warmth of ninety-two.
degrees ; and therefore the utmod limits of this degree are fixed at thirty-
three and ninety-four. Within the compafs of this heat are included the
vital actions of animals; the fermentation of vegetables, and the putre­
faction both of vegetables and animals ; and likewife the generation,
breeding, hatching, birth, and nutrition, of animals. This degree is alfo
employed by chemids to prepare elixirs, volatile alkaline falts, and tinc­
tures. The third degree of fire is that which extends from ninety-four
degrees of the thermometer to 212 ; at which lad, water ufually boils.
This degree is required in the didillation of finiple and compound wa­
ters, the eflential oils of vegetables ; and will coagulate or confolidate the
ferurn, blood, and other animal juices, and confequently dedroy life.
The fourth degree of heat may by reckoned from the degree 212 to 600
within which limits all oils, faline lixivia, mercury, and oil of vitriol, are
didilled ; lead and tin will alfo melt and mix together. The oils, falts,
and faponaceous juices, of animals and vegetables, are rendered volatile and
acrid, and become more or lefs alcalel'cent; their folid parts are calcined,
and lofe their didinguiftnng qualities and proper virtues; and with this
degree of fire, fofiil lulphur and fal armoniac are fublimed. The fifth
degree is that wherein the other metals melt, and which commences from
fix hundred degrees of the thermometer, and ends where iron is held in a
ftate of fufion. In this degree moft bodies are deftroyed ; but glafs, gold,
filver, copper, and iron, remain long unchanged ; all other fixed bodies
grow red-hot in this degree, and all the unvitrifiable ftones are calcined.
The fixth and higheft degree of fire hitherto known, is that of the bura-
ing lens, or fpeculum, by M. Villette, Tfchirnhaufen, BufFon, and others.
The focus of thefe lenfes will even volatilize what is called the metalline
or mercurial part of gold, and vitrify the more terreftrial. The utmoft
degree of fire is the vitrification of fixed bodies, which the ancient magi,
or the aftrologers of the eaft, difeovered; and they predicted the final
end of the world by fire, and its mutation into tranfparent glafs.
Air is the next adtive element that engages our attention, and it is d i­
vided into proper or e
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
r
y,and common or Elementary
No. 3. L air.
Original from
M H Ji/ V r* D VDl ID I Ir I I P P A D V
Digitized by Google
6o A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
air, properly fo called, is a fubtile, homogeneous, elaftic, matter ; the tafr$ .
or fundamental ingredient of common air, and that which gives.it the
denomination. It likewife enters into the compofition of moftor perhaps .
all bodies, and exifts in them under a folid Tromf^ deprived of its elaf- i,
ticity, and moft of its diftinguifhing properties, and ferving as the ce- ^
ment, and univerfal bond, of nature; but capable, by certain procefles,
of being difengaged from them, recovering its elafticity, and refembling
the air of our atmofphere. The peculiar nature of this aerial matter we
know but little of; what authors have advanced concerning it being
chiefly conjeft ural. We have no way of altogether feparating it from the
other matter, with which, in its pureft ftate, it is more or left combined,
and confequently no way of afcertaining, with fatisfadtory evidence, its
peculiar properties, abftradledly from thofe of other bodies. Philofophers
both ancientand modern maintain, with great plaufibility, that it is the fame
"with the pure ether, or that fine, fluid, adtive, matter, diflfufed through the
whole expanfe of the celeftial regions, and of the interior heavens; and
is fuppofed to be a body fuigeneris, ingenerable, incorruptible, immuta­
ble, prefent in all places and in all bodies.
Common or heterogeneous air is a coalition of corpufcles of various
kinds, which together conftitute one common mafs, wherein we live and
move, and which we are continually receiving and expelling by refpiration.
The whole aflemblage of this makes what we call th and
where this air or atmofphere ends, there the pure ether is fuppofed to
commence, which is diftinguifhed from air, by its not making any fenfi-
ble refradtion of the rays of light, as air does. This common air, fays
flows into it from the heavenly bodies, and probably the magnetic effluvia
of the earth, whatever fire can volatilize, is found in the air. Hence the
whole foil'll kingdom mult be.found in i t ; for all of that tribe, as falts,
fulphurs, ftones, and metals, are convertible into fume, and thus capable
of being rendered part of the air. Gold itfelf, the moft fixed of all na­
tural bodies, is found to adhere clofe to the fulphur in mines; and thus to
be raifed along with it. Sulphurs alfo make a confidcrable ingredient of
the air, on account of the many volcanoes, grottos, caverns, and other
(piracies, chiefly affording that mineral, difperl'ed through the globe. All
parts of the animal kingdom mult alfo be in the air; for, befide the co­
pious effluvia continually emitted from their bodies, by the vital heat, in
the ordinary procefs of perfpiration, by means of which an animal, in-the
courfe of its duration, impregnates the air with many times the quantity
of its own body; we find that any animal when dead, being expofed to
the air, is in a certain time wholly incorporated with it. This fadl is
Digitized by Google Original from
M P / i / V C \ U Y Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
Genesis Chap./. Yen i f
' T i i e ?. " , w y o f ' - :
PUBLIC c:3n.-.;V:'
ASTOR, LENOX AND
1 9 : 8 L
D i g i t i z e d b y ( j O ^ ' ^ I C
O r i g i n a l f r o m
K i c t J t f v n n i ' d i m i i r i i c b a b v
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
n
,
o
u
u
y
i
t
:
-
u
i
y
m
z
e
u
/
i
ill|j.//v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
idu
nu
ubi.uiy/di_i_ebb_ube-/f
|
j
u
-
y
u
u
y
it
:
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 61
proved in a very ftriking manner, by an extraordinary effect produced by
thofe dead bodies, after they became filled with air, which were unfor­
tunately drowned in the Royal George at Spithead, on the 29th of
Auguft, 1782. This fhip was heeled on her fide for the purpofe of
fome repair, when the water rufhed into her lower port-holes, and funk
her almoft inftantaneoufly. She went down in fourteen fathom water,
and fell upon her fide, as was evident from her top-mafts, which remain­
ed above the water in an inclined dirediion. A confiderable time after
this fatal accident, fhe fuddenly righted, and her mads became nearly
perpendicular. Noone couldaccountforthis extraordinary circumftance,
till an anonymous writer publifhed the following ingenious and corredt
Tolution of i t :— “ By the mufter-roll of this unfortunate fhip, it appears
that 495 fouls perifhed between her decks ; and, as the bodies had nd
way to efcape, they of courfe remained in that fituation. Now all bodies
in a date of putrefaction ferment, and this fermentation generates large
quantities of air, fo that a putrifying carcafe, inflated by the generation
of air, expands itfelf to a fize far exceeding its original bulk, and becomes
lighter than water in a very high degree ; and will confequently be prefled
upwards towards thefurface with a power equal to the weight of a quantity
of water adequate in bulk to the inflated carcafe; and would rile imme­
diately to thefurface in a perpendicular line, if not obftrudted in its paf-
fage. Now it is obvious that the 495 carcafes, which lay between the
decks until fermentation and putrefaction commenced, would rife as foon
as the generated air rendered them fpecifically lighter than fea-water : and,
as fermentation increafed their bulk, they would, by their expanfion, re­
move a quantity of water from between the decks, on the lowed fide of
the fhip (to which by their gravity they would naturally incline when
their breath firft left them),equal to their encreafed bulk; and, being then
adled upon by the upward preflure of the water, would exert againft the
under-part of the decks, immediately over them, a power likewife equal
to fuch weight of water as equals their increafed bulk. The heavieft fide
of the fhip, being thus firfl lightened by the difplacing fo large a quan­
tity of water, and exchanging it for air j and then adled upon by the
preflure of the water upwards againfi: the under fide of the inflated carca­
fes, lifting hard againft the decks on or beneath the center of the fhip.;
and farther by the preflure of the water upwards, againfi the underfide of
the hulls, mails, &c. together with the counterpoife of a large weight
of water between decks, on the higheft fide, would caufe her to be near­
ly.in equilibrio; and confequently, the firfl flrong tide (as was the cafe)
would fwing her on her keel, and right her.”
As to vegetables, none of that clafs can be wanting in the contribution of
their effluvia to the commonair, fince we know that all vegetables, by pu-
trefadlion, become volatile. The aflociations, reparations, attritions, dil-
folutions, and other operations, of one fort of matter upon another, may
iikew lie
Digitized by Google Original from
MCIA/ v n o k ' Dl IP I Ir I I D D A R V
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
n
,
v
ju
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
^
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
w
.
i
i
d
i
i
i
i
u
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/c
iL
L
t;b
b
_
u
b
t:-«
-|J
U
-y
u
u
y
ic
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
likewife bcconfidered as fources of numerous other neutral or anonymous
bodies, unknown to the mod inquifitive naturalift. Thus air is one of
the moil confiderable and univerfal agents in all nature, being concerned
in the prefervation of life, and the production of mod of the phenomena
relating to this world. Its properties andeffeCts, includinga great part of
the refearches and difcover|es of the modern1philofophers, have in a con­
fiderable degree been reduced to precife laws anddemonftrations ; in which
form they make a very extenfive and important branch of the mixed ma­
thematics, called Pneumatics ; for a more perfect knowledge of which,
I beg leave to recommend the curious reader to Dr. Prieftley’s invaluable
Experiments and Obfervations on different kinds of air. But I fhall juft
obferve further, that to the prefTure of air we are to attribute the cohe­
rence of the parts of bodies. Breathing too, on which depends animal
life, is owing to the prefTure and lpring of the air; and to the lame
cjufe may be attributed the production of fire and flame, as appears from
the fudden extinction of fire when deprived of air. It is likewife necef-
lary for the exiftenceand propagation of founds, for the germination and
growth of plants, for conveying all the variety of l'mells, and for re­
ceiving and tranfmitting the rays and influences of the celeftial world to
the terreftial. Air aCts upon all bodies by its common properties of
weight and elafticity, and by the peculiar virtues of the ingredients where­
of it is compofed. Thefe properties of weight and elafticity in the air,
when engendered in large quantities in the bowels of the earth, and
heated by the fubterranean fire, occafion earthquakes, and other vehe­
ment commotions of nature. And by fome late experiments of M. de la
Hire, it is found that a certain quantity of condenfed air, if heated to a
degree equal to that of boiling water, would produce an exploiion fuffi-
cicnt to tear afunder the folid globe. By means of a corroding acid, air
difiolves iron and copper, unlcfs well defended by oil ; even gold in the
chemift’s laboratory, when the air is impregnated with theeffluvia of aqua
regia, contracts a ruft like other bodies. It fixes volatile bodies, and vo­
latilizes thole which are fixed. From the different effluviae diffufed
through the air proceed a variety of cffeCts. Near mines of copper, it
will dilcolour iilver and brafs ; and in London, where the air abounds
with acid and corrciive particles, metalline utenfils ruft much fooner than
in the country. Stones alio undergo the changes incident to metals.
Thus Purbeck ftone, of which Salifbury cathedral is built, is obferved
to become gradually fofter, and to moulder away in the air ; and Mr.
Boyle gives the fame account of Blackington ftone. It is very difficult
to obtain oil of fulphur in a clear dry air, as its parts are then more ready
to evaporate ; but in a moift cloudy air it may be obtained in abundance.
All falts melt moft readily in cloudy weather ; and feparations proceed beft
in the fame ftate of the air. If pure wane becarried into a place where the
air is full of the fumes of wine then fermenting, it will begin to ferment
a-frefh. The wholefomenefs and unwholefomenefs of air is certainly
2 owing
Digitized by G o o g l e
Original from
MCI/!/ v n o k ' Dl IP I Ir I I R D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y * 63
owing to the different effluvia with which it abounds. The beft air is to
be found in open champaign countries, where the foil is dry, and fpon-
taneoufly produces wild thyme, wild marjoram, and the like fweet-
feented plants. The morning air is more refrefhing than that of the even­
ing, and air agitated with breezes than that which is ferene and ftill.
As good air contributes greatly to health, fo that which is bad or in­
fectious is no lei's prejudicial to it, as is evident in contagious difeafes,
plagues, murrains, and other mortalities, which are fpread by an infedted
air. But this infefcted air may be corrected, and the body preferved from
its fatal effects, by the effluvia of aromatic and ffrong-feented herbs and
flowers. From obfervations on bleeding in rheumatifms, and after tak­
ing cold, it is evident the air can enter with all its qualities, and vitiate
the whole texture of the blood, and other juices. From pallies, verti­
goes, and other nervous affections, caufed by damps, mines, &c. it is
evident that air thus qualified, can relax and obftruCt the whole nervous
fyftem. And from the cholics, fluxes, coughs, and confumptions, pro­
duced by damp, moift, and nitrous, air, it is evident it can corrupt and
fpoil the noble organs of the whole human ftruCture. Thus air is an
inftrument which nature is univerfally applying in all her works, con-
fequently a knowledge of its properties icems highly neceflary not only
to the chemift and phyfician, but to the philofopher and divine.— For
more on this important fubjedl fee Hales’s Veget. Stat. ch. vi. Sir
Ifaac Newton’s Optics, Qu. 31. p. 371, 372. Buffon’s Hift. Nat. Supp.
vol. i. M . de la Hire, Mem. de l’Acad. An. 1703. Phil. Tranf. vol.
lvi. p. 152, &c. Bacon, Nov. Organ, lib. ii. app. 13. Lavoifier’s Phy-
fical and Chemical Eflays, vol. i. Black’s EfT. and Obf. Phyf. and Liter,
vol. ii. Chamb. Cyclop, new Edit. Art. Air. And Prieflley on Air.
Water, the third adtive element, is the menffruum of the world, and
is of two kinds; firft. Pure Water, which is a limpid and colournefs li­
quor, without fmell or tafle, Ample and volatile, and is peculiar to the
celeftial regions. Secondly, Grofs Water, which is a pellucid fluid, con­
vertible into ice by cold, naturally pervading the flrata of the earth, and
flowing on its furfacey and with the body of the earth conflitutes the
terraqueous globe. The Agure of the component parts of water appears
to be fmooth and fpherical, like thofe of quickfllver; whence it becomes
extremely moveable and penetrating. Thus it readily enters the pores of
wood, leather, ikins, chords, and muflcal firings, and is capable of
moving and agitating particles of matter lefs adtive than itfelf; and fo
proves the more immediate phyAcal agent of fermentation, putrefadlion,
folution, and the like ; and thus it alfo conveys earthy and faline matter
through flltres of paper, ftone, &c. and even raifes fome proportion of
them in diffillations. Its particles appear to be extremely minute, and
fo have a large fhare of furface. Hence water is admirably fitted for a
No. 3. M folvent,
Original from
Mi~ifr v a d \s ni in 11r 1inn
Digitized by Google
64 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
folvent, or for readily entering the pores of falts, and coming into full
contadl with all their particles; and thus it will pafs where air cannot, on
account of its moifture, or lubricating power, whereby it fallens muci­
laginous matters, and will therefore fokc through theclofe pores of a
bladder. It penetrates the atmofphere very copioully, by means of the
continual diftillations of the ocean and rivers, railed up by the heat of
the central fun, and draws along with it a warm unfiious vapour, which
caufes a natural generation of whatever the earth, as a matrix, is impreg­
nated with. Water always contains an earthy fubllance, and is found in
the hardell bodies, and in the dried air. It is the proper menftruum.
of falts, and, by the readinefs with which it imbibes the different
kinds of air, is eafily rendered, by a lately-difcovered chemical procefs, to
poffefs the lame qualities and virtues of the mod edeemed mineral waters
hitherto difcovered. Water is alfo of infinite ufe in all the works both
of nature and art, as without it there could be no generation, nutri­
tion, or accretion, performed in any of the animal, vegetable, mine­
ral, marine, or atmofpherical, regions. The blood could not flow in the
veins, the fap in the veflfcls of vegetables, nor the particles of minerals
concrete and grow together, without water. It is this that makes the
larged part of our blood, our drink, and other aliments. There could
be no corruption, fermentation, or diflolution, carried on without i t ; no
brewing, no diddling, no wines, no vinegar, no fpirits, made without
it. We alfo meet with water under an infinite variety of forms, and in an
infinite variety of bodies, as that of air, vapour, clouds, fnow, hail, ice,
lap, wines, blood, flefh, bone, horn, done, and other bodies, through
all which it feems to pafs unaltered, as an agent or indrument that dif­
fers no alteration by re-adtion, but remains capable of refuming the form
of water again upon any occafion. In its own common date, water ap­
pears to be a combination of all the elements together, as containing a
quantity of fire, which keeps it fluid ; a quantity of air, and a quantity
of earth; whence it is not at all furpriling, that water alone, as it appears
to the lenfes, fhould fufEce for vegetation in fome cafes, where little
earth is wanted, or for fupporting animal and mineral life, where no great
degree of nutriment is required; and hence it proves a glue or cement to
dime bodies, a folvent to others; thus it confolidates brick, plaider
of Paris, done, bone, and the like; but diflolves falts, and fubtile earth
approaching to falts, and becomes the indrumental caufe of their adtion.
Water alfo conveys nourilhment or a more fixed and folid matter to the
.parts of vegetables, where having depofited it, the finer fluid perfpires
into the atmofphere, which gives us the phyfical caufe of the dampnefs and
unwholefomenefs of woody countries, as they remarkably find in America.
For all large vegetables aft after the manner of forcing-pumps, continu­
ally drawing in krge quantities of water at their roots, and difeharging
it
Digitized by Google Original from
M C U / v n D V Dl ID I i r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y , 65
it at their leaves; which intimates a method of colleding water in dry
countries* and likewife of making fait water frelh. It is alfo obferva-
ble, that water in paffing through plants, after having depofited its more
terreftrial part, does not always go off pure, but impregnated with the
finer effluvia, or more fubtile particles, of the vegetable; thus making an
atmofphere around every plant according to its nature, odoriferous or o-
therwife, which fupplies us with a rule for procuring the odoriferous
waters of vegetables by diftillation. But the particles, not fine enough
to go off thus along with the water, are left behind upon the furface of
the leaves and flowers of plants, being now thickened or drained from
their moiffer parts, and remaining in the form of honey, manna, gums,
or balfams, according to the nature of the vegetable. And hence we
deduce the phyfical caufe why plants prove more odoriferous and fweet
when the air is both warm and moifl, as is the cafe immediatly after a
fummer fliower. Water is likewife of the utmoft ufe in divers of
the mechanical arts and occafions of lifej as in the motion of mills,
engines, fountains, aud all other machines which ad by the laws of
Hydroftatics.—For the further properties and effects of Water, fee
Defag. Exp. Phil. vol. ii. Cotes’s Hyd. and Pneum. Ledtures. Phil.
Tranf. No. 203, 220,337. Fergufon's Ledures, 4to. p. 68, &c. Chamb.
Cyclop. Art. Water, Fluids, Hydroftatics, &c.
The fourth element, which is paflive and fixed, is Earth, and confifts
of a Ample, dry, and cold, fubftancej and is an ingredient in the compo­
sition of all natural bodies. It muft be obferved, that pure native earth
is a very different matter from the earth whereon we tread, and this pure
earth is fuppofed to be the bafis or fubftratem of all bodies, and that
wherein the other principles refide. It is all that is folid in an animal
or vegetable body, all the real vafcular parts, the reft being juices. This
earth may be found in and feparated from all animal and vegetable fub-
ftances, and is the fame in all, and is the bafis of all. It remains after
the feparation of the other principles, by chemiftry, from all animal and
vegetable fubftances, and neither coheres together, nor fuffers any change
in the fire. The affayers acknowledge no difference between the earth of
animals and vegetables, but make their tefts for the niceft ufes equally of
both. If water be poured upon this earth, it requires fome degree of te­
nacity, fo as to become capable of being formed into veffels ; but, if oil
he added, it coheres into a much ftronger and more compaft mafs; hence
it appears that oil and earth are the principles which give conliftence and
tenacity to plants. This oil, as well as this earth, feems the fame in all,
and polreffes nothing of the poifonous or medicinal virtues of the plaut,
or whatever it is extraded from j they being all feparable by decodion,
diftillation., and other proceffcs of that kind, and never remain either in
the
Digitized by Go< gle Original from
M P U / Dl ID I i r I I RB A B V
p>iFinnfi-nrl-w-p><;n
qq^-v^p/Pi
m
n
<
;n
m
i
n
p
i
r
AAAAAA//:rlni
i
/
np>
7
n
ifiin
-p
>
if
in
n
n
'i
11pi
i
i
n
n
Digitiz
66 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
the earth, or in this connecting oil. Long drying will divert plants of all
their virtues; fo that nothing but thefe principles (hall remain in them,
and thefe, giving folidity and figure, preserve the plant in its former ap­
pearance j but, thefe only remaining, it poflefi’
es none of its virtues.
This pure earth may be procured by drawing off the fpirit, fulphur,
phlegm, and falts, of wine ; and what remains will be a taftelefs, fcent-
lefs, durty, matter, not capable of being raifed by diftillation, or diffolv-
ed by folution, but will prefcrve jhe fame ftate and form even in the fire;
and this is called pure earth, or caput It may alfo be obtained
pure and unmixed from the common clafs of vegetables and other bodies,
by letting the remaining mafs, after diftillation, be thoroughly calcined,
then boiled in feveral waters to get out all its fait, and after this dried
in a clear fire, or in the fun ; and this dried mafs will be pure earth.
Thus, from the different qualities and operations of the four elements
upon one another, we may obferve, that the fire preferves the earth
from being overwhelmed or deftroyed by water; the air preferves the fire,
that it is not extinguifhed ; and the water preferves the earth, that it is
not burnt; but, if either of thefe active elements were to become predo­
minant in any great degree, the world would be deftroyed ; as was the
cafe at the time of the deluge, by the predominancy of water.— For more
on this fubjeCt, fee Boerhaave’s Chemift. part ii. p. 21. Shaw’s Lectures,
p. 151, Phil. Tranf. No. 3. Hill’s Hift. of Foffils. Linn. Syft. Nat.
tom, iii. 1770. Da Cofta’s Foffils, p. 119, &c. Swed. Mem* 1760.
Of thefe four elements the whole terreftrial world is compofed, with
all its productions and appendages; and over thefe Man hath the do­
minion, as God’s vicegerent upon earth, being compounded of the moil
perfect and noble part of earthly matter, and formed after God’s own
image and likenels. Hence man is called' the Microcofm, from ^p©-,
little, and w o r l d ,
literally fignifying, the little world, which
plied to Man by way of eminence, as being an epitome of all that is excel­
lent and wonderful in Nature. If we attentively confider the rtruCture
and faculties of roan, we (hall clearly perceive his exiftence upon earth,
in a character fubordinate to that of angels, is only intended by the Deity
for a ftate of probation ; and, as this corporeal life (hall terminate, either
in a£ls of piety or profanenefs, fo (hall follow the retributions of an im­
partial and juft Judge, in a future ftate of everlafting duration. Man is
compofed of three diftinCt eflences, Spirit, Soul, and Body j as St. Paul
evinces when he fays. Let your S
p
i
r
i
t
s
, Souls, ,
and , be kept -
lefs at the coming ofthe Lord Je/us Chrijl. And thefe three eflence
compounded of the three lefler worlds >{Jje Soul of Man is formed of the
ethereal world ; the Spirit, of the cSeftiaT world ; and the Body, of the
elementary world. Hence arc deducible the influences of the fun, moon,
and
e
db
yGoogle Original from
MC\AI v n o ^ Dl IP I i r I I R D A P V
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 67
andftars, upon Man’s body, becaufc he hath a microcofmical fun, moon,
and ftars, within himfelf, that bear a fympathy with the celellial bodies,
and in the centre of whicb Chines the divine Spirit. For the fenfual, ce­
leftial, part of man, is that whereby we move, fee, feel, tafte, and fmell,
and have a commerce with all material objects ; and through thefe the
influences of the divine Nature are conveyed to the more refined and
fenfible organs. This celeftial fpirit adfuates and influences the elemen­
tary eflence, andftirs it up to the propagationofits like, and to every other
purpofe for which Nature defigned it. And this fpirit is even difcoverable
in herbs and flowers, which open when <he fun rifes, and clofe when he
fets ; whichmotion is produced by the fpirit being fenfible of the approach
and departure of the fun’s influence. Next to thefe, in Man, fhines that
pure, etherial, angelic part, called the rational foul; which is a divine
light or ftream flowing immediately from the Great Creator, uniting
Man with God, and railing him above all other parts of animated na­
ture. This Soul, when once it enters the body, runs parallel with
eternity ; and joins in with the celeftial fpirit, through the fphere of the
planets; and is conducted by a divine genius, to an hypoftatical union
with the elementaty body ; fo that there exift two active principles in
the body of man to one paflive ; and, as the Superior Rules in the celef­
tial world are fituated at the time of man’s nativity, fo will his confti-
tution and difpofition be framed. And here we derive the caufc of all
thofeaftonifhing variations of temper, difpofition, andconftitution, which
are^rot only peculiar to different fubjedfs, but even to one and the fame
perfon j for every one will bear tcftimony of this fadt, that we find our-
ielves fometimes chearful, and at other times melancholy; to-day in perfedl
health, and to-morrow in pain and anguifh; this hour compofed, affa­
ble, and complapmt, and the next aultere, petulant, and peremptory ;
and thefe contrarieties are evidently produced by the continual refiftance
and oppofition of the four elements in man's body, which alternately dif-
pofe him to the various affedtions difcoverable in human nature. The
caufe of this is induced from the natural enmity of the elementary mat­
ter, viz. heat and cold, and drinefs and moifture ; each of which occa-
fionally predominates in man’s body, according to the motion and influ­
ence of thofe heavenly bodies, that rule, govern, and modify, the operation
of the four elements, in and upon every terreftrial fubftance. Thus it is
evident, that the underftanding and intelledlual faculties of Man are form­
ed of the ethereal world; the fenfitive powers of life and adtion are derived
from the celeftial world j and the grofs and corruptible part, the flelhand
blood, confifts of the elementary world ; which are all fubordinate the
one to the other. Under this idea of the workmanfhip and conftrufclion
of Man, Job exclaimed, that he was fearfully and wonderjully made ; in
-ift poffeffing the three-fold eflences of fpirit, loul, and body.
No. 3. N Sceptical
Digitized by Go<. ole Original from
Mci/if Di mi 1r i i d r a d v
aifinnfS-nrl-«-p>
<;n
c
^
a
-
n
p
/
f
i
i
m
<
;
n
n
n
mpi
r
AAAAAA//:rlni
i
/
n
p
>
7
n
ifiin
-p
>
ifin
n
n
'i
11pi
i
i
n
n
68 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Sceptical and atheiftical writers, indeed, have attempted to overtorn this
fyftem of nature in the conftruCtion of man, by denying the immortality
of the foul, and a future diftribution of rewards and punilhments j con­
tending that the foul is an indivifible part of the body, and has its diffo-
lution in the common courfe of mortality. But thefe tenets are fo ex­
tremely abfurd, fo vague, and fo deftitute of evidence, that the rational
mind is at a lofs to conceive howfuch an inconfiftent doftrine coaid have
everbeen broached; for, the fame philofophical reafoning, thatenables us
to define the nature and exiftence of the body, will likewife prove the
nature and exiftence of the foul. It is only from the primary or effential
qualities of body, its extenfion, and folidity, that we form any idea of
i t ; and why may we not form the complex idea of a foul or fpirit, from
the operations of thinking, underftanding, willing, and the like, which
are experiments in ourfelves ? This idea of an immaterial fubftance is as
clear as that we have of a material one ; for, though the notion of imma­
terial fobftances may be attended with difficulties, we have no more
reafon to deny or doubt of its truth, than we have to deny or doubt
of the exiftence of the body. That the foul is an immaterial fub­
ftance, appears from hence-—that the primary operations of willing and
thinking are not only unconnected with the known properties of body,
but feem plainly inconfiftent with fome of its mod elfential qualities.
For the mind not only difcovers no relation between thinking and the
motion and arrangement of parts; but it'likewife perceives, thatconciouf-
nefs, a fimple aCl, can never proceed from a compounded fubftance* ca­
pable of being divided into many parts. To illuftrate this, let us only
fuppofe a fyftem of matter endowed with thought; then, either all the
parts of which this fyftem conlifts muft think, which would make it
not one, but a multitude of diftinCt confcious beings ;*or its power of
thinking muft arile from the connection of the parts one with another,
their motion, and difpofition, which, all taken together, contribute to the
production of thought. But it is evident, that the motion of parts, and
the manner of combining them, can produce nothing but an artful ftruc-
ture, and various modes of motion. Hence all machines, however artful­
ly their parts are put together, and however complicated their ftruc-
ture, though we conceive innumerable different motions, varioufly com­
bined, and running one into another with an endlefs variety, yet ne­
ver produce any thing but figure and motion. If a clock, or watch, tells
the hour and minute of the day, it is only by the motion of the different
hands, pointing fuccefiively at the different figures marked upon the
dial-plate for that purpofe. We never imagine this to be the effeCt of
thought or intelligence, nor conceive it poflible, by any refinement of
ftruCture, fo to improve thecompofition, as that it (hall become capable
of knowledge and confcioufnefs; and the reafon is plainly this, that
thought
Digitized by G O O g l C
Original from
M P A / V r t R k ' Dl IPI i r I I R R A B V
of? A S T R O L O G Y . ' 69
thought being fomething altogether different from motion and figure,
without the leaft connexion between them, it can never be fuppofed to
refult from them. This then being evident, that intelligence cannot
arife from an union or combination of unintelligent parts j if we fuppofe
it to belong to any fyftem of matter, we muft n eeflarily attribute it to
all the parts of which that fyftem is compofed; whereby, inftead of one,
we (hall, as was before obferved, have a multitude of diftinCt confcious
beings. And becaufe matter, how far foever we purlue the minutenefs
of its parts, is ftill capable of repeated divilions, even to infinity, it is
plain that this abfurdity will follow us through all the fuppofitions that
make thought inherent in a material fubftance. Wherefore, as confci-
oufnefs is incompatible with the cohefion of folid feparable parts, we are
neceffarily led to place it in fome other fubftance of diflinfl Nature and
Properties—and this fubftance we call Spirit, which is altogether diftinCt
from body, nay, and commonly placed in oppolition to it ; for which
reafon, the beings of this clafs are called immaterial ; a word that im­
plies nothing of their true nature, but merely denotes its contrariety to
that of matter, or material fubftances.
As to the immortality of the human foul, the arguments to prove it
may be reduced to the following heads ; firft, The nature of the foul it-
felf, its defires, fenfe of moral good and evil, and gradual increafe of
knowledge and perfection ; and fecondly, The moral attributes of God.
Under the former of thefe confiderations, it is apparent that the foul, be­
ing an immaterial intelligent fubftance, as has been already proved, does
not depend upon the body for its exiftence ; and therefore may, and ab-
folutely muft, exift after the body, unlefs annihilated by the fame power
which gave it a being at firft, which is not to be fuppofed, fince there are
no inftances of annihilation in nature. This argument, efpecially if the
infinite capacity of the foul, its ftrong defire after immortality, its ra­
tional activity and advancement towards perfection, be likewife confidered,
will appear perfectly conclufive to men of a philolophical turn ; becaule
nature, or rather the God of nature, does nothing in vain. But argu­
ments drawn from the moral attributes of the Deity are not only better
adapted to convince men unacquainted with abftraCt reafoning, but equally
certain and conclufive with the former; for, as the juftice of God can
never fuffer the wicked to efcape unpunifhed, nor the good to remain
always unrewarded ; therefore arguments drawn from the manifeft and
continual profperity of the wicked, and the frequent misfortunes and un-
happinefs of good and virtuous men in this life, muft convince every
thinking perfon, that there is a future ftate wherein all will be fet right,
and God’s attributes of wifdom, goodnefs, and juftice, fully vindicated.
Had the religious and confciewtious part of mankind no hopes of a future
ftate, -they would be of all men the moft miferable; but, as this is abfo-
lutcly
Original from
M P A / v n ( 3 ^ D I I D I If” I I B B A B V
u
u
n
i
c
m
i,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
i
i
l
l
|
j
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
i
iciu
iiu
u
b
L
.u
i
y/dLL.t:bb_ubt:-«-pu-yuuy
it:
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
lutely inconfiftent with the moral charadlerer of the Deity, the certainty
of fuch a ftate is clear to a demonftration.
Thus far we have confidered the elementary world, which is the lowed:
in dignity j and man, the chief fubjedt thereof. The celeftial world,
which is next in eminence, is conftituted of a body natural, mod: Simple,
fpherical, clear, fluid, and moving conftantlyiti acircle, and this by virtue
of an innate power always within itfelf; comprehending and containing
the lun, moon, planets, and ftars, fixed in diftindt orbs by the great Ar­
chitect of Nature, and bearing fympathy with all terreftrial fubftances, as
being formed out of the fame chaotic mafs at the beginning of the world.
This celeftial heaven is what Mofes calls d
a
k
i
g
nt
he firmament, wh
the work of the fecond day’s creation, and literally fignifies an expahfe or
extenjion; a term very well adapted by the prophet to the imprefiion
which the heavens make on our fenfes ; whence in other parts of the
Scriptures, the heaven is compared to a curtain, or a tent flxetched out to
dwell in. Through the medium of this celeftial world, and the heavenly
bodies therein contained, the fupreme Being rules, governs, and actuates,
the elementary world ;and this is apparent, becaufe that thing w
term obedience is only to be found in elementary bodies. And finee mo­
tion is the caufe of all mutation and change, and as all motion originates
with the heavenly bodies, by the revolutions of which even Time itfelf
is meafured out and divided, fo we find thel'e celeftial influences produce
all the variations of heat and cold, drinefs and moifture, generation and
corruption, increafe and decreafe, life and death, and all the viciffitudes
of nature, without even varying themfelves, or being fubjedt to the leaft
change or alteration j whilft the elementary bodies are perpetually chang­
ing, and never continue in one ftay. Hence it is apparent that the celef­
tial bodies are adlive, and the elementary paflive; fo that the celeftial bo­
dies give the form and ftamp to all the productions of nature, and the ele­
mentary bodies fubminifter matter to receive this form. And as the pofi-
tions and aftedtions of the heavenly afpedts are when this form or ftamp
is given, and as the quality of the elementary matter fhall be when fubmi-
niftered, fo will the nature and quality of the fubjedl be, that receives this
celeftial form or ftamp. And, were it not for this adtiveand paflive prin­
ciple, then would all elementary things be alike, without a pofiibility of
exifting. It is, therefore, a perfedt knowledge of this mediate or celef­
tial world, its various affedtions and difpofitions, the nature, tendency,
and eftedt, of the luminaries, their motions, afpedls, and pofitions, which
enable us to judge of future contingencies, and to difcover the fecretand
abftrufe operations of nature. But, to attain this knowledge in any com­
petent degree, we muft trace thefe heavenly intelligencers throughout the
whole celeftial regions, and acquaint ourfelves with their general and
elfential
Digitized by
*Goosle Original from
M P A i V n D t ' Dl IP I I r I I D D A D V
o f a s t r o l o g y . 71
effential qualities. I (hall for this purpofe, after treating of the ethereal
world, make this fpeculation a leading clue to the art of calculating
nativities.
The ethereal world, which is the fuperior, and the higheft in dignity,
is that which the infpired writers, and the ancient philofophers, called
the Empyrean Heaven, and is conceived to be the abode of God, and blef-
fed fpirits, of angels, and the fouls of the righteous departed j wherein
the Deity is pleafed to afford a nearer and more immediate view of himfelf,
a more fenfible manifeftation of his glory, and a more adequate percep­
tion of his attributes, than in the other parts of the univerfe, where he
is likewife prefent. But the mod exalted conceptions we can poflibly
form of this blifsful abode, are extremely inadequate and imperfect $ nor
is it in the power of the moft enlarged underftanding to frame fuitable
ideas of the Godhead, or of the angelic hoft that perpetually furround his
throne. As much, however, as the human comprehenfion is able to con­
tain, the Almighty has been gracioufly pleafed to reveal to us in the Scrip­
tures, by the infpired writers, particularly Ifaiah, Ezekiel, and St. John
the Divine, who have given us very magnificent defcriptions of the hea­
venly manfions, their ftrutture, apparatus, and angelic attendance. From
this divine Revelation the Hebrew writers, and other learned men, have
deferibed the Harmony of the Univerfe, and the neceflary fubordination
and dependence of one thing upon another, from the interior heaven to
the remoteft corner of the earth. We (hall therefore prefume to follow
thefe authors in fpeaking of God and his angels j and whoever fufficiently
contemplates the fubject will be fecure againft the impious doctrines of
Atheifts, of Free-thinkers, of immoral and irreligious men.
God is an immaterial, intelligent, and free. Being; of perfect good-
nefs, wifdom, and power; who made the univerfe, and continues to fup-
port it, as well as to govern and direct it by his providence. By his im*
materiality, intelligence, and freedom, God is diftinguilhed, from fate,
nature, deftiny, neceflity, chance, and from all other imaginary beings.
In feripture, God is defined by, I am that I am ; Alpha and Omega; the
beginning and end of all things. Among philofophers, he is defined a
Being of infinite perfection ; or in whom there is no defect of any thing
which we conceive might raife, improve, or exalt, his nature. Among
men, he is chiefly confniered as the firft caufe, the firft Being, who has
exifted from the beginning, has created the world, or who fubfifts
neceflarily, or of himfelf; and this knowledge of God, his nature,
attributes, word, and works, with the relations between him and
his creatures, make the extenffve fubjedt of Theology, the lifter
fcience of Aftrology.
No. 4. O Sir
Original from
w m / i / v n o i f ' di i d i i r 1 i d
Digitized by ( j O G ^ l C
7 a A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Sir Ifaac Newton confiders and defines God, not as is ufually done, from
his perfe&ion, his nature, exiftence, or the like; but from his dominion.
The word God, according to him, is a relative term, and has a regard to
fervants; it is true it denotes a Being eternal, infinite, and abfolutely per-
fe£l; but a Being, however eternal, infinite, and abfolutely perfect, with­
out dominion, would not be God. The fame author obferves, that the
word God frequently fignifies Lord; but every lord is not God; it is the
dominion of a fpiritual being, or lord, that eonftitutes God; true domi­
nion, true God; fupreme, the fupreme; feigned, the falfe god. From
fuch true dominion it follows, that the true God is living, intelligent,
and powerful; and from his other perfections, that he is fupreme, or
fupremely perfect: he is eternal, and infinite; omnipotent, and omnifci-
cnt; that is, he endures from eternity to eternity, and is prefent from
infinity to infinity. He governs all things that exift, and knows all things
that are to be known; he is not eternity, nor infinity, but eternal, and
infinite; he is not duration or fpace, but he endures, and is prefent; he
endures always, and is prefent every where; and, by exifting always, and
every where, he eonftitutes the very thing, duration and fpace, eternity
and infinity. He is omniprefent, not only virtually, but alfo fiibftanti-
ally; for power without fubftance cannot fubfift. All things are contain­
ed, and move in him, but without any mutual paflion; he fuffers nothing
from the motions of bodies; nor do they undergo any refiftance from his
©mniprefcnce. It is confefled that God exifts neceftarily ; and by the
fame neceflity he exifts always, and every where. Hence, alfo, he muft
be perfeClly fimilar ; all eye, all ear, all brain, all arm, all the power of
perceiving, underftanding, and aCting ; but after a manner not at all cor­
poreal, after a manner not like that of men, after a manner wholly to us
unknown. He is deftitute of all body, and all bodily ihape; and there­
fore cannot be feen, heard, or touched; nor ought to be worfhipped un­
der the reprefentation of any thing corporeal. We have ideas of the at­
tributes of God, but do not know the fubftance even of any thing; we
fee only the figures and colours of bodies, hear only founds, touch only
the outward furfaces, fmell only odours, and tafte taftes; but do not, can­
not, by any fenfe, or any reflex adt, know their inward fubftances; and
much lefs can we have any notion of the fubftance of God. We know
him by his properties and attributes; by the moft wife and excellent
ftruCture of things, and by final caufes; but we adore and worihip him
only on account of his dominion ; for God, fetting afide dominion, pro­
vidence, and final caufes, is nothing elfe but fate and * nature.
The admirable metaphyfician and divine. Dr. Clarke, has demonftrated
the being of a God, with that clearnefs and force of reafoning for whichr
* See Newton’s Phtlof. N at. Princip. Math, in calce.
2 he
Digitized by Google Original from
M C \ A / V r \ D P Dl I P I i r I I P D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 7 3
fie is fo eminently diftinguifhed, by a feries of propofitions, mutually con­
nected and dependent, and forming a complete and urianfwerable argu­
ment in proof of the attributes of the Deity. Something, he fays, has
exifted from all eternity; for, fince fomething now is, fomething always
was: otherwife the things that now are mull have been produced out of
nothing, abfolutely and without caufe, which is a plain contradiction in
terms. There muft have exifted from all eternity fome one unchangeable
and independent Being; or elfe, there has been an infinite fucceffion of
changeable and dependent beings, produced one from another in an endlefs
progrcffion, without any original caufe at all. For without, this feries of
beings can have no caufe of its exiftence, becaufe it includes all things that*
are or ever were in the univerfe; nor is any one being in this infinite luc-*-
ceffion felf-exiftent or neceflary, and therefore it can have no rcafon of its-
exiftence within itfelf; and it was equally poffible, that from eternity*
there fhould never have exifted any thing at all, as that a fucceffion of fuch^
beings fhould have exifted from eternity. Confequently their exiftence
is determined by nothing; neither by any neceffity in their own nature,
becaufe none of them are felf-exiftent; nor by any other being, becaufe
no other is fuppofed to exift.—That unchangeable and independent Being,-
which has exifted from eternity, without any external caufe of its exift­
ence, muft be felf-exiftent; it muft exift by an abfolute neceffity origi—
-
nally in the nature of the thing itfelf, and antecedent in the natural order'
of our ideas to our fuppofition of its being. For whatever exifts,. muft
cither come into being without a caufe; or it muft have been produced
by fbme external caufe; or it muft be felf-exiftent: but the two former
fuppofitions are contrary to the two firft propofitions. From this laft'
propofition it follows, that the only true idea of a felf-exiftent or necef-
farily exifting being, is the idea of a being, the fuppofition of whole non-
exiftence is an exprefs contradiction ; and this idea is that of a moft limplc
being, abfolutely eternal and infinite, original and independent. It fol­
lows alfo, that nothing is fo certain as the exiftence of a fupreme inde--
pendent c*ufe; and likewife, that the material world cannot poffibly be
the firft and original being, uncreated, independent, and of itfelf eternal;,
becaufe it does not exift by an abfolute neceffity in its own nature,.fo as
that it muft be an exprefs contradiction to fuppofe it not to exift. W ith
refpeCt both to its form and matter, the material world may be conceived-
not to be, or to be in any refpeCl different from what it is without a con­
tradiction. The fubftance or effence of the felf-exiftent being is abfo­
lutely incomprchenfible by us; neverthelefs, many of the effential attri­
butes of his nature are ftriCtly demonftrable, as well as his exiftence.—
The felf-exiftent being, having no caufe of its exiftence but the abfoluta
neceffity of its own nature, muft of neceffity have exifted from everlaft-
ing, without beginning ; and muft of neceffity exift to everlafting, without
end.—The felf-exillent being muft of neceffity be infinite and omnipre-
fent.
Original from
M P / l f Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by C j O O Q I C
■n A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Xent. Such a being muft be every where, as well as always unalterably'
the fame. It follows from hence, that the felf-exiftent being muft be a
moftfimple, unchangeable, incorruptible, being, without parts, figure,
motion, divifibility, and other properties of matter, which are utterly in-
•confiftent with complete infinity. The felf-exiftent being muft of necef-~
fity be but one; becaufe in abfolute neceflity there can be no difference
or diverfity of exiftence; and, therefore, it is abfolutely impofilble, that
there fhould be two independent felf-exiftent principles, fuch as God and
matter.—The felf-exiftent and original caufe of all things muft be an in-
_ , ielligent being. This propofition cannot be demonftrated ftridtly and
properly.*
? priori; but, a pofieriori, the world affords undeniable argu-
ments to prove that all thmgs'are^the effefts of an intelligent and know-
* iog caufe. The caufe muft be always more excellent than the effedt; and,
therefore, from the various kinds of powers and degrees of excellence and
perfection, which vifible objedts poflcfs j from the intelligence of created
beings, which is a real diftindt quality or perfection, and not a mere ef­
fect or oompofition of unintelligent figure and motion ; from the variety,
order, beauty, wonderful contrivance, and fitnefs, of all things to their
proper and refpedtive ends; and from the’original of motion, the felf-
exiftent creating being is demonftrated to be intelligent. The felf-exift-
ent and original caufe of all things is not a neceffary agent, but a bdng en­
dued with liberty and choice. Liberty is a neceffary confequent of intel­
ligence.; without liberty, no being can be faid to bean agent, or caufe of
anything; fince to a61 neceflarily, is really and properly not to adt at all,
but to be adted upon. Befides, if the fupreme caufe be not endued with
liberty, it will follow, that nothing which is not could poflibly have
been ; that nothing which is,.could poflibly not have been; and that no
mode or circumftance of the exiftence of any thing could poflibly have
been in any refpedl otherwife than what it now actually is. Farther, if
there be any final caufe i# the univerfe, the fupreme caufe is a free agent;
and, on the contrary fuppofition, it is impoflible that any effedt fhould be
finite; and in every effedt there muft have been a progreflion a# caufes
infinitum, without any original oaufe at all.—The felf-exiftent being, the
fupreme caufe of all things, muft of neceflity have infinite power; fince all
things were made by him, and are entirely dependent upon him ; and all
the powers of all things are derived from him, and perfedlly fubjedt to
him ; nothing can refill the execution of his will.— The fupreme caufe
and author of all things muft of neceflity be infinitely wife. This fol­
lows from the propofitions already eftablifhed; and the proof a ’
,
cf the infinite wifdom of God, from the confideration of the exquifite
perfection and confummate excellency of his works, i6 no lefs ftrong and
undeniable.—The fupreme caufe and author of all things muft of necef­
fity be a being of infinite goodnefs, juftice, and truth, and all other moral
perfections; fuch as become the fupreme governor and judge of the
world.
Original from
m c u / v n o b ' D i i m i r i i b b a b v
O F A S T R O L O G Y 75
world. The will of a being, infinitely knowing and wife, independent and
all-powerful, can never be influenced by any wrong affection, and can ne­
ver be milled or oppofed from without ; and, therefore, he muft do al­
ways what we know fitted to be done ; that is, he muft aCt always ac­
cording to the ftriCteft rules of infinite goodnefs, juftice, and truth, and
all other moral perfections ; and more particularly, being infinitely and
ncceffarily happy and all-fufficient, he muft be unalterably difpofed to do
and to communicate good or *happinefs.
To this more abftrufe argument a priori, for theexiftence of God, we
may add another, more generally obvious, and carrying irrefiftible con­
viction, which is deduced from the frame of the world, and from the
traces of evident contrivance and fitnefs of things for one another that
occur through all the parts of it. Thefe confpire to prove, that the ma­
terial world, which in its nature is originated and dependent, could not
have been the effeCt of chance or neceflity, but of intelligence and defign.
The beautiful, harmonious, and beneficial, arrangement of the various bo­
dies that compofe the material fyftem; their mutual dependence and fub-
ferviency ; the regularity of their motions, and the aptitude of thefe mo­
tions for producing the moft beneficial effects ; and many other pheno­
mena refultingfrom their relation, magnitude, fituatton, and ufe, afford
unqueftionable evidences of the creating power and wife difpofal of an in­
telligent and almighty agent. The power of gravity, by which the ce-
leftial bodies perfevere in their revolutions, deferves our particular confi-
deration. This power penetrates to the centres of the fun and planets,
without any diminution of its virtue, and is extended to immenfe dif-
tances, regularly decreafing, and producing the moft fenfible and impor­
tant effeCts. Its action is proportional to the quantity of folid matter in
bodies, and not to their furfaces, as is ufual in»mechanical caufes ; and,
therefore, feems to furpafs mere mechanifm. But however various the
phenomeiyi that depend on this power, and may be explained by it, no
mechanical principles can account for its effects; much lefs could it have
produced, at the beginning, the regular fituation of the orbs, and the pre-
fent difpofition of things. Gravity could not have"determined the planets
to move from weft to eaft, in orbits nearly circular, almoft in the fame
plane; nor could their power have projected tw| comets, with all the va­
riety of their directions. It we fuppofe the matter of the fyftem to be
accumulated the centre by its gravity, no mechanical principles, with
the afliftance of this power, could feparate the huge and unwieldy mafs
into fuch parts as the lun and planets; and, after carrying them to their
different diftances, project them in their feveral directions, preferving ftill
the equality of adlion and re-aCtion, or the ftate of the centre of gravity of
No. 4.
* See Clarke’s Demonftration of the Being and Attributes of God.
P the
Digitized b> Google Original from
m p a / D i i m 1r 1 i d d a
76 ‘ A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
the fyStem. Such an exquifite Structure of things could only arife from
the contrivance and powerful influences of an intelligent, free, and mod
potent, agent. The fame powers, therefore, which at prefent govern the
material world, and condud: its various motions, are very different from
thofe, which were neceffary to have produced it from nothing, or to have
difpofed it in the admirable form in which it now proceeds.
But we Should exceed the limits of our plan, if, confining our observa­
tion to the earth, our own habitation, we were to enumerate only the
principal traces of defign and wifdom, as well as goodnefs, which are dis­
cernible in its figure and conftituent parts, in its diurnal and annual mo­
tion, in the pofition of its axis with regard to its orbit, in the benefit
which it derives from the light and heat of the fun, and the alternate vi-
ciflitudes of the feafons; in the atmofphere which Surrounds it, and in
the different Species and varieties of vegetables and animals with which
it is replenifhed. No one can Survey the vegetable produftions of the
earth, io various, beautiful, and ufeful, nor the various gradations of ani­
mal life, in Such a variety of Species, all preServed diftind, and propa­
gated by a fettled law, each fitted to its own element, provided with pro­
per food, and with inftinds and organs Suited to its rank and Situation,
and especially with the powers of fenfation and Self-motion, and all more
immediately or remotely fubfervient to the government and ufe of man,
Without admiring the Skill and defign of the original Former. But thefe
are more Signally manifefted in the Strudure of the human frame, and in
the noble powers and capacities of the human mind ; more efpecially in
the moral principles and faculties, which are a diftinguifhing part of our
constitution, and lead to the perception and acknowledgement of the ex­
istence and government of God. In thofe instances that have now been
recited, and a variety of Similar inftances Suggelted by them, or naturally
occurring to the notice of the curious and refleding mind, contrivance is
manifest, and immediately, without any nice or Subtle reafoning, fuggefts
a contriver. It Strikes us like a fenfation; and artful reafonings againft
it may puzzle us, without Shaking our belief. No perfon, for example,
that knows the principles of optics, and the Structure of the eye, can
believe that it was formed without Skill in that Science; or that the ear
was formed without the knowledge of Sounds; or that the male and fe­
male, created and preferved in due proportion, were not formed for each
other, and for continuing the Species. All our accounts of nature are full
of inSlances of this kind. The admirable and beautiful Structure of
things for final caufes exalts our idea of the contriver; and the unity of
defign Shews him to be one. The great motions in the SySlem, performed
with the fame facility as the leaft, fuggeft his almighty power, which
gave motion to the earth and the celefttal bodies with equal eafe as to
the minuteff particles; the Subtility of the motions and actions in the
internal
Original from
MCl/U V n R k ' DI IP I Ir I I Q D A P V
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 77
internal parts of bodies, (hews that his influence penetrates'the inmoft
recedes of things, and that he is equally aClive and prefent every where.
The fimplicity of the laws that prevail in the world, the excellent difpo-
fition of things, in order to obtain the beft ends, and the beauty which
adorns the works of nature, far fuperior to any thing in art, fuggeft his
confummate wifdom. 'I he ufefulnefs of the whole fcheme, fo well con­
trived for the intelligent beings who enjoy it, with the internal difpofition
and moral ftruCture of thofc beings, fhews his unbounded goodnefs.
'1 hefe are arguments which are fufficiently open to the views and capa­
cities of the unlearned, while at the fame time they acquire new ftrength
and luftre from the dilcoveries of the learned. The Deity’s acting and in-
terpofing in the univerfe, fhew that he governs it, as well as that he form­
ed it and the depth of his counfels, even in conducting the material uni­
verfe, of which a great part furpaffes our knowledge, tends to preferve an
inward veneration and awe of this great Being, and difpofes us to receive
what may be otherwife revealed to us concerning him. His eflence, as
well as that of all other fubftances, is beyond the reach of all our difco-
veries j but his attributes clearly appear in his admirable works. We know
that the higheft conceptions we are able to form of them are ftill beneath
his real perfections j but his dominion over us, and our duty towards him,
are abundantly * manifeft.
Another fubftantial argument to prove the exiftence of God, as the
creator and governor of the univerfe, may be deduced from the univerfal
confcnt of mankind, and the uniform tradition of this belief through
every nation and every age; it is impoffible to conceive, that a fallacy,
fo perpetual and univerfal, ftiould be impofed on the united reafon of man­
kind. No credible and fatisfaCtory account can be given of this univerfal
confent, without afcribing it to the original conftitution of the human
mind, in confiquence of which it cannot fail to difcern the exiftence of a
Deity, and to the undeniable traces of his being, which his works afford.
Fear, ftate-policy, and the prejudices of education, to which the concur­
rence of mankind in this principle has been fometimes refolved, are founded
on this univerfal principle, fuppofe its being an influence, and are actuated
by it. It is much more reafonable to imagine, that the belief of a God
was antecedent to their operation, than that itfhould have been produced
by them; and that it was dictated by reafon and confcience, independent
of the paflion and policy of men. The uniform and univerfal tradition
of this belief, and of the creation of the world by the divine power, af­
fords concurring evidence both of the principle and of the tad. 1he
exiftenceof God is alio farther evinced by thofe arguments whichhave been
ufually alledged to prove, that the world had a beginning, and, therefore,
* See M aclaurin’s A ccount o f Sir Ifaac N ew to n ’s Phil. D ifc. b. iv. chap. 9. B axter in his
^ ’rHam, R ay, N ieu w en ty t, D e la Pluche in his N atu re D isplayed, C ham b, C yclo p . & c.
that
Digitized by Goc gle Original from
MHA/ V n D f c ' Dl ID I Ir I ID R A R V
aiRnnR-nH-w-ac;n
i
nnc
;n
m
i
h
p
i
rAAAAAA//-r
l
n
i
i
/
n
n
y
n
i
F
j
i
n
-
s
i
F
i
n
n
m
'i
i
ipi
i
i
n
n
78 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
that it mud have been created by the energy of divine power. In proof
of this, the hiftory of Mofes, confidered merely as themoft ancient hifto-
rian, deferves particular regard. His teftimony is confirmed by the moll
ancient writers, among the heathens, both poets and hiftorians. It may
be alio fairly alledged, that we have no hiftory or tradition more ancient
than that which agrees with the received opinion of the world’s begin­
ning, and of the manner in which it was produced ; and that the mod
anpient hiftories were written long after that time. And this confidera-
tion is urged by Lucretius, the famous Epicurean, as a ftrong prefump-
tion that the world had a beginning: -
------Si nulla fuit genitalis origo
Terrarum & cceli, lemperque seterna fuere:
Cur fupra bellum Thebanum, & funera Trojae,
Non alias alii quoque res cecinere poetae?
Befides, the origin and progrefs of learning, and the moft ufeful arts,
confirm the notion of the world’s beginning, and of the common asra of
its creation ; to which alfo may be added, that the world itfelf, being
material and corruptible, mud have had a beginning; and many pheno­
mena occur to the obfervation of the aftronomer and mathematician,
which furnilh a ftrong prefumption, that it could have had no long du­
ration, and that it now gradually tends to diftolution. From thefe con-
fiderations we may infer the abfolute being and providence of God ;
which alfo demonftrate the exiftence of his angels and miniftring fpirits,
who are the meflengers of his will, and the proper inhabitants of the
ethereal world, ahd confequently the next fubje&s of our enquiry.
An Angel is a fpiritual intelligent fubftance, and the firft in rank and
dignity of all created beings j though the word Angel, Ayyo.o(, is not pro­
perly a denomination of nature, but of office; denoting a mejfenger, or
executioner of the will of fome fuperior power or authority. In this fenfe
they are frequently mentioned in Scripture, as miniftring fpirits fent by
the Almighty to declare his will, and to corredl, teach, reprove, and com­
fort. God alfo promulgated the law to Mofes, and appeared to the old
patriarchs by the mediation of angels, who reprefented him, and fpoke
in his name. The exiftence of angels is admitted in all religions ; the
Greeks and Latins acknowledged them under the names of genii and
demons ; and in the Alcoran we find frequent mention of them j the
profeflors of the Mahometan religion affigned them various orders and
degrees, as well as different employments, both in heaven and on earth.
The Sadducees alfo admit their exiftence: witnefs Abufaid, the author of
an Arabic verfion of the Pentateuch; and Aaron, a Caraite Jew, in his
comment on the Pentateuch ; both extant in manufcript in the king of
France’s library. The heathen philofophers and poets were alfo agreed as
to the exiftence of intelligent beings, fuperior to man ; as is (hewn by
Digitized by Google Original from
M C I A / v n o ^ Dl m i I f" I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 79
St. Cyprian, in his treatifc on the vanity of idols, from the teftimonies
of Plato, Socrates, and Trifmegiftus. Authors are not fo unanimous
about their nature as of their exiftence; Clemens Alexandrinus believed
they had bodies, which was alfo the opinion of Origen, Caefarius, Ter-
tullian, and feveral others; but Athanafius, Bafil, Gregory, Nicene,
Cyril, and Chryfoftom, hold them to be mere fpirits. Authors
are alfo divided as to the time of the creation of angels; fome will have
it to have been before the creation of our world, or ever from eternity ;
while others maintain that they were created at the fame time with our
world. The moft probable conje&ure is, that they were created at dif­
ferent periods, whenever it pleafcd the Almighty to call them into ex­
iftence. But, though we cannot fo clearly demonftrate the precife nature
and duration of angels, we may neverthelefs conclude, that, though they
are of an order highly fuperior to that of men, yet are they not complete
and perfeft; for, had they been created thus originally, they could not
have fallen, as Adam did, nor have finned, which the feriptures inform
us fome of them did, by rebelling againft the Almighty, and in contend­
ing with him for fupreme authority. For this reafon, as they are them-
felves imperfett beings, they can in no one refpedl be confidered proper
objects of human adoration, which we are bound to pay alone to that
O ne Supreme, who is omnipotent, immortal, infinite, the fource and
centre of every thing that is great, and good, and perfect.
Theologifts have divided angels into different ranks or fubordinations,
which they term Hierarchies, from „f0{, holy, and , fignifying,
holy c
o
m
m
a
n
d
, or to rule in holy things. Dionyfius and other ancient
writers have eftablifhed nine choirs or orders of thefe celeftial fpirits,
namely, feraphim, cherubim, thrones, dominions, principalities, powers,
virtues, angels, and archangels; and thefe they form into three Hierarchies,
appointing them their refpe&ive offices in the performance of adoration
and praife, and in executing the word and will of God. The Rabbins
and Jewifh writers, who had obvioufly a more immediate knowledge of
the angelic hoft, by the infpiration of their prophets, and the revelation
of God’s true religion, have defined one rank of angels, or intelligent
beings, fuperior to all the foregoing, which anfwer to or are contained in
the ten diftinguifhing names of God, and are the pure offences of his
fpirit, or ftream though which his will and pleafure is communicated
to the angels and blefied fpirits, and through which his providence extends
to the care and prote&ion of all his works. The firft of thefe divine ef-
fences is denominated riVT, "Jehovah,
and is peculiarly attribute
the Father, being the pure and fimple effence of the Divinity, flowing
through Hajoth Hakados to the angel Metratton, and to the miniftering
fpirit Refchith Hagalalim, who guides th and beftows
the gift of being upon all things. To this fpirit is allotted the office of
No. 4. bringing
Digitized by Google Original from
M P A i w r \ d \s ni 1d 1 \ r 1 i d d a r v
a
ifi
n
nf
i-n
rl
-M
-a
Q
n
i
m
c
n
n
i
m
p
i
r
aaaaaa
/
/
t
I
tti
i
/
n
a
7
m
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
F
i
n
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
m
n
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
bringing the fouls of the faithful departed into heaven ; and by him God
fpake to Mofes. The fecond is and is attributed the perlon
of the Mefliah, or A
o
fo
<
, whole power and influence defcends though the
> angel Mafleh into the fphere of the Zodiac. This is the fpirit or word
which actuated the chaos, and divided the unwrought matter into three
portions: of the firft or molt eflential part was the lpiritual world com-
pofed ; of the fecond was made the viflble heavens and the luminous
bodies ; and of the third or inferior part was formed the terreftrial
world, out of which was drawn the elemental quinteflence or firft matter,
of all things, which produced the four elements, and all creatures that
inhabit them, by the agency of a particular fpirit called Razjel, who was
the ruler of Adam. Ih e third is and is attributed to the
Holy Spirit, whofe divine light is received by the angel Sabbathi, and
communicated from him through the fphere of Saturn. This is
cipium generations, the beginning of the ways of God, or the manifefta-
tion of the Father and the Son’s light in the fupernatural generation.
And from hence flow down all living fouls, entering the inanimate body,
and giving form to unfettled matter. The fourth is *
7
1
t, El, through the
light of whom flow grace, goodnefs, mercy, piety, and munificence,
to the angel Zadkiel; and, thence paffing through the fphere of Jupiter,
falhioneth the images of all bodies, bellowing clemeocy, benevnlence,
end juftice, on all. The fifth is ViV#, Elohi, the upholder of the fword
find left-hand of God, whofe influence penetrates the angel Geburah, and
thence defcends though the fphere of Mars, giving fortitude in war and
affliction. The fixth is JTiiQ¥, Tfebaotb, who beftoweth his mighty
power through the angel Raphael into the fphere of the Sun, giving rao-
v tion, heat, and brightnefs, to it, and thence producing metals. The fe-
venth is Elion, who rules the angel Michael, and defcends though
the fphere of Mercury, giving benignity, motion, and intelligence, with
elegance and confonance of fpeech. The eighth is W it, whole
influence is received by the angel Haniel, and communicated through the
fphere of Venus, giving zeal, fervency, and righteounefs of heart, and
producing vegetables. The ninth is Tttf, Shaddai, whofe influence is con­
veyed by cherubim to the angel Gabriel, and falls into the fphere of the
Moon, cauling increafe and decreafe of all things, governing the genii and
proteClors of men. The tenth is O H 1
?#, Elobim, who extends his bene­
ficence to the angel Jefodoth, into the fphere of the earth, and difpenfeth
knowledge, underHanding, and wifdom. The three firft of thefe ten
names, viz. ftlPP, Jehovah, IT, Jah, and riVTK, Ehjeh, exprefs the
elfence of God, and are proper names $ but the other feven are only ex-
preflive of bis,.attributes. The principal and only true name of the God­
head, according both to the Hebrews and and Greeks, is
the name o ffour letters, with which the Godhead, in molt
languages, is obferved to be exprefied; thus in Hebrew the Supreme
Being
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
M C I A / D I I D I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . Hi
Being is called ri'T Jehovah; in the Greek, ©
«>
<
; in Latin, it
Spanifh, D
i
o
s; in Italian, I
d
i
o;in French, in the ancient G
ilii, D iex;
in ancient German, D
i
e
t; in the Sclavonic, Buck-, in Arabic,
Alia-, in the Polifli, Bung-, in the Pannonian, in the Egyptian,
Henu-, in the Perlian, S
j
r
e;and in the language of the ancient Magi,
Orji. Thus God is conceived to work by the ideas of his own mind,
and thefe ideas difpenfe their feals, and communicate them to whatever
is formed or created.
In the exterior circle of the celeftial heaven, in which are placed
the fixed ftars, the AnimaMundi hath her particular forms, or feminal
conceptions, anfwering to the ideas of the Divine Mind ; and this fitu-
ation, approaching neareft to the empyrean heaven, the feat of God, re­
ceives the fpiritual powers and influences which immediately proceed
from him. Hence they are diffufed through the fpheres of the planets
and heavenly bodies, and communicated to the inmoft centre of the earth,
by means of the terreftrial elements. Thus have the wife and learned
men among the Jews deduced the conftrudion and harmony of the world,
and flicwn that God performs all his fecret and ftupendous works by the
medium of the celeftial bodies. He ads and governs immediately by
himfelf, but mediately by the heavenly bodies, which are the inftruments
of his Providence, and the fecondary caufes, by which the earth and all
fimilar fyftems are regulated; and thefe, perhaps, regulate one another,
by a reciprocal influence and fympathy, communicated to them in the
ordination of nature. And hence comes the original or ground-work
of all men’s nativities, and all manner of natural queftions and things,
and the ftory of all that may happen or proceed out of natural caufes, to
the full end of time. To demonftrate this more fatisfadorily, we fhall
now define the natural properties of the celeftial world, with its particu­
lar divifions, quantity, motion, and meafure, as laid down by the rules
of Aftronomy; and this will lead us to the dodrine of nativities.
AN
Digitized by ( j O O Q I C
Original from
M DA f V A D L' n i m i Ir I IDE? A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
AN ASTRONOM ICAL SURVEY of the CELESTIA L W O R LD ;
with the Places, Order, and Motions, of the H eavenly Bodies.
I
T was formerly a fubjedt of difpute among Philofophers, whether the
earth or the Sun was the centre of the celeftial fyftem ; but the latter
opinion has been generally received fincethe time of Copernicus, whoabout
the year 1543 published his fix books De Orbium Coeleftium Revolu-
tionibus, wherein he proves the Sun to be very near the centre of gravity of
the whole fyftem, and in the common focus of every one of the planetary
orbits. Next the Sun, Mercury performs his revolution around him ;
next to Mercury is the orbit of Venus ; and next to Venus, our earth,
with its attendant or fecondary the Moon, perform ajoint courfe, and by
their revolution meafure out the annual period. Next to the earth is
Mars, the firft of the fuperior planets: next to him is Jupiter j and, laft
of all, Saturn. Thefe and the comets are the conftituent parts of the
Copernican or folar fyftem, which is now received and approved as the
only true one, becaufe mod agreeable to the tenor of nature in all her ac­
tions; for, by the two motions of the earth all the phenomena of the
heavens are rcfolved, which by other hypothefes arc inexplicable without
a great number of other motions contrary to philofophical reafoning. It
is alfo more rational to fuppofe that the earth moves round the Sun, than
that the huge bodies of the planets, the ftupendous body of the Sun, and
the immenfe firmament of fiars, fliould all move round the earth every
twenty-four hours. The harmony which runs through the folar fyftem
wonderfully confirms this hypothefis, viz. that the motions of all the
planets, both primary and fecondary, are governed and regulated by one
and the fame law, which is, that the fquares of the periodical times of
the primary planets arc to each other as the cubes of their diftances from
the Sun; and likewife the fquares of the periodical times of the feconda-
ries of any primary are to each other as the cubes of their diftances from
that primary. Now the Moon, which, in the Copernican fyftem, is a fe­
condary of jhe earth, in the other hypothefis is confidered as a primary
one; and fo the rule cannot take place, becaufe the periodical time ftated
as that of a primary one does not agree therewith. But this fingle confi-
deration is fufficient to eftablifh the motion of the earth for ever! viz. if
the earth does not move round the Sun, the Sun mull move with the
Moon round the earth. Now, the diftance of the Sun to that of the
Moon being as 10,000 to 46, and the Moon’speriod being lefs thantwen-
ty-eight days, the Sun’s period would be found no lefs than two hundre,
and forty-two years; whereas, in fadt, it is but one year. The Sun alio
being the fountain of light and heat, which it irradiates through all the
1 fyftem
Digitized by Google Original from
mcwu vncfc' di id 1 i r i i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 83
fyftem, it mud of courfe be placed in the centre, in order that the planets
may at all times have it in an uniform and equable manner. For, if the
earth be fuppofed in the centre, and the Sun and planets revolve about it,
the planets would then, like the comets, be fcorched with heat when
neareft the Sun, and frozen with cold in their aphelia, or greateft diftance;
which is not to be imagined. But, if the Sun be fuppofed in the centre
of the fyftem, we then have the rational hypothefisof the planets being all
moved round the Sun, by the univerfal law or power of gravity arifing
from his vaft body, and every thing will anfwer to the laws of circular
motion and central forces; but otherwife we are wholly in the dark, and
know not how to define thefe operations of nature. Fortunately, however,
we are able to give not only reafons, but dcmonftrable proofs, that the Sun
does poffefs the centre of the fyftem, and that the planets move about
him in the order above-mentioned. The firft is, that Mercury and Ve­
nus are ever obferved to have two conjunctions with the Sun, but no op-
pofition, which could not happen unlefs the orbits of thefe planets lay
within the orbit of the earth. The i'econd is, that Mars, Jupiter, and
Saturn, have each their conjunctions and oppofitions to the Sun alternately
and fuccefiively, which could not be unlefs their orbits were exterior to
that of the earth. In the third place, the greateft elongation or diftance
of Mercury from the Sun is about twenty degrees, and that of Venus
forty-feven degrees ; which anfwers exaClly to their diftance in this fyf­
tem ; but, in the other, they would be leen one hundred and eighty de­
grees from the Sun, in oppofition to him. Fourthly, in this difpofition
of the planets, they will all of them be fometimes much nearer to the earth
than at others; the confequence of which is, that their brightnefs and
fplendour, and alfo their apparent diameters, will be proportionally great­
er at one time than another; and this we obferve to be true every day.
Th us, the apparent diameter of Venus, when greateft, is near fixty-fix
feconds, but, when leaft, not more than nine and a half; of Mars, when
greateft, it is twenty-one feconds, but, when leaft, no more than two fe­
conds and a half; whereas, by the other hypothecs, they ought always
to be equal. The fifth is, that, when the planets are viewed with a goocf
telelcope, they appear with different phafes, or with different parts of
their bodies enlightened. Thus Venus is fometimes new, then horned,
and afterwards dichotomized, then gibbous, afterwards full, and fo en-
creafes and decreafes her light in the fame manner as the Moon, and as
this fyftem requires. Thefixth proof is, that the planets, all of them,
do fometimes appear direct in motion, fometimes retrograde, and at other
times ftationary. Thus, Venus, as fhe paffes from her greateft elongation
weftward to her greateft elongation eaftward, will appear direCt in mo­
tion, but retrograde as fhe paffes from the latter to the former; and,
when (he is in thofe points of greateft diftance from the Sun, fhe feems
No. 4. R for
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
v n o h ' DI IP I i r I I R R A B V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
84
for fome time ftationary; all which is neceftary upon the Copernican hy-
pothefis, but cannot happen in any other. The l'eventh is, that the bo­
dies of Mercury and Venus, in their low conjunctions with the Sun, are
hid behind the Sun’s body, and in the upper coniundions are feen to
pafs over the Sun’s body, or difk, in form of a black round l'pot, which is
neceftary in the Copernican fyftem, but impoflible in any other. The
eighth is, that the times in which thefe conjundions, oppofitions, fta-
tions, and retrogradations, of the planets happen are not fuch as they
would be if the earth were at reft in its orbit, but precifely fuch as
would happen were the earth to move round the Sun, and all the other
planets in the periods afligned them ; and therefore this, and no other,
can be the true fyftem of the world.
But, the better to determine the pi sees of the celeftial bodies, and to
underftand the conftitution of the heavens more clearly, aftronomers have
conceived or deferibed feveral circles, called the circles of the fphere, by
which the celeftial world is divided and meafured out. Some of thefe
are called great circles, as the equinoctial, ecliptic, meridian, &c. and
others fmall circles, as the tropics, parallels, &c. The equinoctial line
is a circle which we imagine to inveft the whole world, and is fo called,
becaufe, whenever the Sun, in his progrefs through the ecliptic, comes to
this circle, it makes equal days and nights all round the globe, as he
then rifes due eaft, and fets due weft, which he never does at any other
time of the year. This equinoctial line is conceived to be three hundred
and lixty degrees in its whole circumference; and each of thefe degrees
is divided into lixty minutes, or fixty equal parts of a degree, and thefe
again into as many l'econds. The meridian is another great circle, con­
fiding alfo of three hundred and fixty degrees, extending from one polar
point to the other, and twice cutting the equinodfial line, compafling the
whole world from north to fouth, as the equinoctial does from eaft to
weft, and terminates at the fame point where it began. The equinoctial
line is fixed and immutable, and is of neceflity always conceived to be
in one and the fame place; but the meridian is mutable, and may circle
the world in any or in all degrees of the equator, as we may have occafion
to conceive or imagine ; it muft, however, uniformly divide the fphere
into two equal parts, which are called hemifpheres. The polar points
are thofe two points in the immenfe ball of the world which are equi-
diftant from the equinodiial line,, the one in the utmoft northern, and the
other in the utmoft fouthern, point. The three hundred and lixty degrees
of the equinoctial line are called the longitude of the world, becaufe they
are in order as the Sun and ftars move in their circuits through the fpaci-
ous heavens in their refpeCfive orbs. But the three hundred and fixty de­
grees of the meridian are called the latitude of the world, becaufe they
mete
Original from
MCtAJ Dl ID I Ir I I R D A D V
Digitized by G O O * ? l e
L^uuidiM,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
i
i
i
l
|
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
v
v
.m
c
iu
nu
ubi
.u
iy/
d»
_t
.eb
b_
ube
-w
-|j
u-
yu
uy
ie
O F A S T R O L O G Y 85
mete out that diftance wherein the Sun and all the ftars, in a certain
breadth one from another, move in their circuits from eaft to weft.
Now the Sun, in his annual progrefs from weft to eaft, does not keep
the equinoftial line, but declines from it at one part of the year to the
north, and at another part of the year to the fouth j and the planets alfo
obferve the fame order in their progrefs, except that the Sun always keeps
the fame conftant track, whereas the planets often vary in their declina­
tions from the equino£fial line. Hence another great circle is conceived
in the heavens, called the Zodiac, which is likewife divided, as all the
great circles are, into three hundred and fixty degrees ; but this circle
being as it were the high road of the planets, and comprehending fo much
of the heavens as the Sun and planets fwerve in their declinations, is con­
ceived to be twenty degrees broad; and it is confined to this fpace, be-
caufe none of the planets ever reach beyond ten degrees north, or ten de­
grees fouth, from the equino£lial line; and the Sun’s path or track in the
Zodiac is called the ecliptic line, becaufe the cclipfes only happen when
the Moon is alfo in this line.
The Zodiac is alfo divided into twelve equal parts, called the twelve
Signs, or boufes of heaven ; and, thefe beginning where the Sun enters the
equinoctial to the northward, the firft fign is named Aries, and the reft
in order are called Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio,
Sagittarius, Capricornus, Aquaries, and Pifces. Thefe figns confift of
thirty degrees each ;a
nd, being all of them divided into four equal parts,
determine the four feafons of the year. Now, when the Sun enters into
the fign called Cancer, he is in his greateft north declination, and at that
time is diftant from the equinodtial line twenty-three degrees to the
north; which occafions another circle to be defcribed, called the tropic
of Cancer, the centre of which being the north pole, it comprehends
as much of the extremity of the round world as falls under twenty-
three degrees and a half from the equator to the northward. And, when
the Sun enters the fign Capricornus, he is in his utmoft fouth decli­
nation, and occafions another circle to be defcribed, called the tropic
of Capricorn, as many degrees from the equator to the fouth as the
other tropic is to the north. At the diftance of forty five degrees from
each of thefe tropics two other circles are imagined, called the ar&ic
and antardtic circles, which, being but little more than twenty degrees
diftant from each pole, do likewile encircle fome fmall portion of the
extremities of the world. The inferior circles, called parallels, run
from eaft to weft, and ferve to divide the heavens into federal fpaces be­
tween the greater circles.
Ancient
Original from
M P M DIIDI Ir I I D D A D V
u
u
m
c
iiii,
o
u
u
y
ie
-
u
iy
iL
i/ie
u
/
i
iLLp.//vvvvvv.i
id
u
nu
ubL.ui
y/cn-<_ebb_ube-«-pu-yuuy
ic
Digitize
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Ancient tradition has handed down to us the origin of that important
circle called the Zodiac, with the reafon why it is fo named, and the inge­
nious method which the firft men made ufe of to know exactly the line
which the Sun deferibes under the heavens in the perpetual changings of
its place, and to divide the year into equal portions. This tradition is
found in two ancient authors, the one Roman, the other Greek. The
firft attributes it to the Egyptians ; the other, to the firft inhabitants of
Chaldea. They every day faw the Sun and the whole heavens turning
and pafling from eaft to weft. In the mean time they obferved that the
Sun, by a mttion peculiar to it, from day to day receded from fome cer­
tain ftars, and took its place under others, always advancing towards the
eaft. Whilft the Moon was making twelve times that revolution, the
Sun made it only once ; but (he began the thirteenth again before the
Sun had as yet completed its own. The habit of dividing the year into
pretty near twelve lunations made them wilh that they had twelve divi-
fions of a year perfectly equal, or twelve months, which might be exa&Iy
equivalent to the year itfelf, and which might, as it were, be pointed at
with one’s finger in the heavens, by (hewing fome certain ftars under which
the Sun pafles during every one of thefe months. Here is then the me­
thod in which they divided the courfeof the Sun in twelve equal portions
or cohesions of ftars, which are called afterifms or conftellations. Our
aftronomers took a couple of brafs open veffels, the one pierced at the
bottom, and the other without any orifice below. Having flopped the
hole of the firft, they filled it with water, and placed it fo as that the wa­
ter might run out into the other veflel the moment*the cock fhould be
opened. This done, they obferved in that part of the heaven where the
Sun has its annual courfe the rifing of a ftar remarkable either for its
magnitude or brightnefs j and, at the critical inftant it appeared on the
horizon, they began to let the water flow out of the upper veflel into the
other during the reft of the night, and the whole following day, to the
very moment when the fame ftar, being come to the eaft again, began to
appear anew on the horizon. The inftant it was again feen, they took
away the under veflel, and threw the water that remained in the other
on the ground. The oblervers were thus fure of having one revolution
of the whole heaven between the firft rifing of the ftar and its return.
The water, which had flowed during that time, might then afford them
a means of meafuring the duration of one whole revolution of the heaven,
and of dividing that duration into feveral equal portions; fince, by dividing
that water itfelf into twelve equal parts, they were lure of having the re­
volution of a twelfth part of the heaven during the efflux of a twelfth
part of the water; they then divided the water of the under veflel into
twelve parts perfectly equal, and prepared two other finall veflels capable
of containing exaflly one of thofc portions, and no more. They again
i poured
"tvGoogle Original from
MPlAf V f l UV DI ID I Ir I ID D A D V
aifinnfi-nrl-w-a<;n
c
Q
a
i
i
p
/
f
i
i
m
<
;
n
nil
h
p
i
i-AAAAAA//:rhn
i
/
n
^
m
f
i
i
n
-
^
i
f
i
n
n
n
'
i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 87
poured into the great upper veflel the twelve parts of water all at once,
keeping the veflels fhut. Then they placed under the cock, ftill fhut,
one of the two fmall veflels, and another near it to fucceed the firft as
foon as it fliould be full.
All thefe preparations being feady, they, the next night, obferved that
part of the heaven towards which they had for a long while remarked that
the Sun, the Moon, and the planets, took their courfes, and ftaid for the
riling of the conftellation which is fince called Aries. The Greeks, per­
haps, gave that name to fome ftars different from thefe which went by it
before the flood; but this enquiry is not neceflary at prefent. The in-
ftant Aries appeared, and they faw the firft ftar of it afeending, they let
the water run into the little meafure. As foon as it was full, they re*
moved it, and threw the water out. In the mean time they put the other
empty meafure under the fall. They obferved exactly, and fo as to re­
member very well, all the ftars that rofe during all the periods which the
meafure took in filling; and that part of the heaven was terminated in
their obfervations by the ftar which appeared the 1aft on the horizon the
moment the meafure was juft full: fo that, by giving the two little veflels
the time neceflary to be alternately filled to the brim three times each
during the night, they had, by that means, one half of the courfe of the
fun in the heaven, that is, one half of the heaven itfclf; and that halF
again was divided into fix equal portions, of which they might fhew and
* diftinguifh the beginning, the middle, and the end, by ftars, which. Frond
their fize, number, or order, were rendered diftinguifhable. As to the
Other half of the heaven, and the fix other conftellations which the furi
runs over therein, they were forced to defer the obfervation of them to
another feafon. They waited till the fun, being placed in the middle of
the now known and obferved conftellations, fhould leave them at liberty
to fee the other during the night.
Doubtlefs, fome precautions were neceflary, not to miftake as to the
fall of the water, which muft flow more flowly in proportion as its mafs
is lefs high. However, after having, by this or fome fuch means, made
themfelvcs fure of the great annual courfe which the fun faithfully fol­
lows in the heavens, and of the equality of the fpaces filled by the twelve
collections of ftars that limit that courfe, the obfervers thought of giving
them names. They in general called them the ftations or the houfes of
the fun, and afligned three of them to each feafon. They then gave
each conftellation a peculiar name, whofe property did not only confift
in making it known again to all nations, but in declaring, at the fame
time, the circumftance of the year (which was of concern to mankind)
when the fun fhould arrive at that conftellation.
No 4. S By
Digitized by Goi.>gle Original from
M P U / V f l D ^ DI IP I Ir I ID R A D V
u
u
i
i
i
o
i
i
i
,
o
u
u
y
i
t
:
-
u
i
y
n
i
^
e
u
/
i
i
l
i
_|
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
v
v
.
i
i
c
i
l
i
i
i
l
i
u
^
l
.
u
i
y
/
d
L
.
t
.
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
f
f
-
(
J
U
-
y
u
u
y
i
t
;
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
By a particular care of Providence, the dams of the flock commonly
happen to be pregnant about the end of autum n; they bring forth
during the winter and in the beginning of the fpring; whence it
happens that the young ones are kept warm under the mother during
the cold, and afterwards eafily thrive and grow -aCtive at the return of
the heat. The lambs come the firft, the calves follow them, and the
kids fall the laft. By this means the lambs, grown vigorous and ftrong,
tnay follow the ram to the fields, as the fine days come on. Soon after
the calves, and at laft the kids, venture abroad, and, by increaftng the
flock, begin to augment the revenues of their mafter.
Our ancient obfervers, feeing that there were during the fpring no
productions more ufeful than lambs, calves, and kids, gave the conftel-
lations, under which the fun pafles during that feafon, the names of the
three animals which enrich mankind moft. The firft was named Aries,
the fecond Taurus, the third the two kids, Gemini, the better to cha­
racterize the fecundity of goats, which more commonly bring forth two
young ones than one, and an abundance of milk more than fufiicient to
nourith them.
The bulk of mankind had already very often remarked, that there was
a point to which the fun raifed itfelf in its coming towards them, but
which it never exceeded; and that it afterwards funk daily, in receding
from them, for fix months together, till it arrived at another point a great
way under the firft, but below which it never defeended. This retreat
of the Sun, made very flowly, and always backward, gave the obfervers
the occafion of diftinguithing the ftars, which follow the two kids, or
Gemini, by the name, of the animal that walks backward, viz. the crab.
When the fun pafles under the next conftellation, it makes our climate
feel fultry heats, but chiefly the climates where men were at that time
all gathered together. When poets attribute to that conftellation the
fiercenefs and raging of the lion, of which it bears the name, it is very
eaiy toguefs at what might determine that choice from the beginning.
Soon after, the houfing of the hay and the corn is entirely over through­
out the eaft ; there remain on the ground only a few ears fcattered here
and there, which they caufed to be gleaned by the leaft neceflary hands ;
this work is left to the youngeft girls. How then could they reprefent
the conftellation, under which the fun fees no longer any crops on the
ground, better than by the name and figure of a young maid gleaning ?
The wings you fee her have in the fpheres are ornaments added of later
date, after the introduction of fables. The virgin, which follows the
lion, is certainly no other than a gleaning girl, or, if you will, a reaper;
and, left we (hould miftake her functions, the befides has in her hand a clut­
ter of ears; a very natural proof of the origin here attributed to her.
Original from
W E \ A / V f i Dl I D I I r I I D D A D V
Digitized by Goc.ole
u
u
m
c
i
m
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
ini|j.//vvvvvv.i
i
d
u
iiu
ubL.ui
y/cn.t.ebb_ubt:-ff-pu-yuuyifc;
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
The perfed: equality of days and nights, which happens when the Sun
quits the fign Virgo, caufed aftronomers to give the next fign the name of
Libra, that is, of a balance. The'frequent difeafes which the Sun leaves
behind him, or caufes by his retiring, procured the next lign the name of
Scorpio; becaufe it is mifchievous, and drags after it a fting and venom.
Towards the end of autumn, the fall of the leaf expofes wild hearts, leav­
ing them lefs covering: vintage and harvert are over ; the fields are free;
and it is of ill confequence to fuffer the propagation of hearts at the ap­
proach of winter. Every thing then invites us to hunt, and the fign, in
which the Sun is at that time, has from thence obtained the name of
Sagittarius; that is, the archer, or huntfman. What is the proper and
diftindive charader of the wild goat, or Capricorn, of which the firft
lign of winter has the name ? it is to look for its food, getting from the
foot of the mountains to the higheft fummit, and always climbing from
rock to rock: the name of Capricorn was then fit to inform men of
the time when the Sun, having reached the loweft verge of its courfe, was
ready to begin to afeend again towards the higheft, and to continue to do
fo for fix months together. This is quite the reverfe of the crab (Cancer);
and the happy concurrence of the oppofite charaders of thefe two ani­
mals is a proof of what dire6led the firft obfervers in the impofition of
all thefe names. Aquaries and Pifces, without any difficulty, mark out
the rainy feafon, and the time of the year when filhes, fatter and nicer than
in any other time, bring on again the profit and pleafure of fifhing. It
may be remarked, that, of the twelve conftellations, there are ten the
names of which are borrowed from feveral animals; which caufed aftro-
nomers to give the annual circle, which they compofe, the name of Zo­
diac. It is a6 much as if you would fay, circle ofanimals.
By this very plain induftry, men acquired a new method of meafuring
time, and of regulating all their works. They already knew,, without
any trouble or care, how to regulate the order of their feafts and common
bufinefs, by infpedion only of the phafes of the Moon. From the know­
ledge of the Zodiac, they obtained an exabt knowledge of the year ; the
conftellations became to them fo many very fignificant figns, which,,
both by their names and refpeflive fituations, informed them of the or­
der of their harvefts, and of the cautions they were to take in order to
bring them about, openly and daily Ihewing them how long they were to
ftay for them; the people were neither obliged to cart up the days, nor
mark out the order of times, to regulate themfelves. Twelve words, ap­
plied to twelve different parts of the heaven, which every night revolved
before their eyes, were to them a part of knowledge no lefs convenient
and advantageous than ealy to be acquired. When men, after the letting
of the Sun, faw the ftars of the fign Aries afeend the oppofite horizon,
and diftant from the Sun by one half of the heaven, they then knew that
the
Original from
MP\A/ V f i P k ^ Dl ID I Ir I I RR A R V
Digitized by Got. ole
9© A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
the fun was under the fign Libra, which, being the feventh of the celef-
tial figns, was diftant from the firft: by one whole half of the Zodiac.—
When at the approach of day they faw in the middle of the heaven, and
at an equal diftance from eaft and weft, the fineft ftar of the fign Leo, they
eafily underftood that the fun, then ready to rife, was at the diftance of
three figns from Leo, and removed towards the eaft one quarter part of its
circle. Thus, without feeing the ftars which the fun drowned by his
brightnefs as he came under them, they faid, with a perfedt affurance, that
the fun is now in Scorpio ; two months hence we {hall have the fhorteft
day. '1 hey could, on light of afingle conftellation, placed in the eaftern,
or middle, or weftern, part of the heaven, immediately fay where the fun
was, how far the year was advanced, and what kind of work it was fit
they Ihould bufy themfelves about. After this manner Ihepherds and
farmers ftill regulate their works; and, if we at prefent are now ignorant
of the ftars, if we are not able to determine the diftance between one
conftellation {hewn us and the a&ual place of the fun, it is becaufe we
can read and write. The firft men perufed the heavens for want of writ­
ing ; and it is on account of the conveniency of writing that the gene­
rality of men now difpenfe with looking among the ftars for the know­
ledge of the operations and order of the year. But writing itfelf, that
fo ufeful invention, is one of the produdts of aftronomy; and it may be
eafily (hewn alfo, that the names given the twelve ccleftial figns gave birth
to the invention both of painting and writing. The hiftory of the heavens
ftill promifes further novelty, and it will continue to inform us of the
helps for which we are indebted to the ftudy of nature.
Now, merely to know and to underftand thofe divifions of the heavens
is nothing more than fpeculative aftrology, commonly called Aftronomy;
but, to attain to the knowledge of Aftrology in general, we muft be con-
verfirit in the affeSlionsand qualities of the heavenly matter, and of the pla­
nets and fixed ltars. It is generally imagined that the fixed ftars are faft-
ened in the eighth orb of the celeftial heaven, and only move as that orb
doth, and uniformly together, about one minute’s fpace in a whole year;
but reafon has not abfolutely determined this point, foas to leave it quite
fotisfadtory, or incontrovertible. The fixed ftars are obferved to differ
from the planets by their twinkling or fparkling ; whence philofophers
have conceived them to Ihine with their own innate light, the fame as the
fun does. The number of ftars difcoverable in either hemifphere is
not above a thoufand. This at firft may appear incredible, becaufe they
feem to be without number; but the deception arifes from our looking
confufcdly upon them, without reducing them into any order*. If we
but look ftedfaftly upon a pretty large portion of the iky, and count the
* See F erguCon's! Aftronomy, Sed. 3$$, Ac.
ftars
Digitized by Google Original from
MCVA/ V f i D l f Dl ID I I r I I D Q A D V
l
s
im
11
d
111,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
1i
c
c
p
.
/
/
v
y
w
w
.
i
id
li
i
i
u
u
£
»
l
.u
i
y
/
d
t
.
L
C
s
a
_
U
5
C
#
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
o
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 9 1
ftars in it, we ftiall be furprifed to find them fo few • and, if we confi-
der how feldom the moon meets with any ftars in her way, although/
there are as many about her path as in other parts of the heavens,
may foon be convinced that the ftars are much thinner fown than peo­
ple are aware of. The British catalogue, which, befides the ftars vifible
to the naked eye, includes a great number which cannot be feen without
the affiftance o‘
f a telefcope, contains no more than three thoufand in both
hemifpheres. Ffoiti what we know of the immenfe diftances of the fixed
ftars, the neareft may be computed at 32,000,000,000,000 of miles from
the earth, which is farther than a cannon-ball would fly in feven mil­
lion of years! Thefe ftars, on account of their apparently various mag­
nitudes, are diftributed intofeveral clafles or orders ; thofe which appear
largeft are calledJiars of theJirjl magnitude; the next to them, in fize
and luftre, ftars of the fecond magnitude 5 and fo on to thefixth, which
confift of the fmalleft that can be feen by the naked eye. This diftri,
bution having been made long before the invention of telefcopes, tl
ftars which cannot be feen without the help of thefe inftruments
diftinguifhed by the name of telefcopic ftars.
For the fame reafon that the ftars within the belt or circle of th
diac were divided into conftellations, fo have been thofe on eit.
of it ; viz. to diftinguifh them from one another, fo that an\^
ftar may be readily found in the heavens, by the help of a ce
upon which the conftellations are fo delineated as to p u ^ ^ h _________
markable ftars into fuch parts of the figures which reprefent them as
are moft eafily diftinguifhed ; and thofe ftars which could
into any part of thefe figures are called unformedJiars.
the ancient conftellation.s is forty-eight : viz. upon the zoo^^^^fl^e _
upon all that region of the heavens on the north-lide of t^P^fadiac,
twenty-one ; and upon the fouth
whole forty-eight conftellations.
.and aftrologians .having added a
down in their proper order.
T A B L E of the Ancient C
Urfa minor The Li ttie'Bear
Ptolem
y.
s.
’T
ycho.
7
Urfa major The Great Bear 35 29
Draco The Dragon 3 1 32
Cepheus Cepheus 4
•Bootes, ArBophilax 2
J 18
Corona Borealis The Northern Crown 8
Hercules, Engonafn
No. 5.
Hercules kneeling •
... T . . '
29
N
» '
28
making in the
odern phiiolophcrs
I T* /
: tile whole
H
cvel. flam
ft.
12 24
73 87
40 80
51 35
52 54
8 21
45 " 3
Lyra
Digitized by Google Original from
m c i a i n i i D i \ r i i d d a d v
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Lyra
Cygnus, Gallina
Caftiepea
Perfeus
Auriga
Serpentarius,
Sqrpens
Sagitta
Aquila, Vultur
Antinous
Delphinus
Equulus, EquifeStio
Pegafus Equus
Andromeda
Triangulum
Aries
Taurus
Gemini
Cancer
Leo
Coma Berenices
Virgo*
Libra, Chela
Scorpius
Sagittarius
Capricornus
Aquarius
Piices
Cetus
Orion
Eridanus,
Lepus
Canis major
Canis minor
Argo
Hydra
Crater
Corvus
Centaurus
Lupus
Ara
Corona Auftralis
Pifces Auftralis
}
The Harp
The Swan
The Lady in her Chair
Perfeus
The Waggoner
Serpentarius
The Serpent
The Arrow
The Eagle 1
Antinous J
The Dolphin
Horfe’s Head
Flying Horfe
Andromeda
The Triangle
The Ram
The Bull
The Twins
The Crab
The Lion
Berenice’s Hair
The Virgin
The Scales
The Scorpion
The Archer
The Goat
The Water-bearer
The Fifties
The Whale
Orion
Eridanus, the River
The Hare
Great Dog
Little Dog
The Ship
Hydra
The Cup
The Crow
Centaur
The W olf
The Altar
Southern Crown
Southern Fifti
lem
y. T
ycho. H
evel. F lam ft.
10 11 17 21
19 18 47 81
13 26 37 55
29 29 .46 59
9 40 66
29 *5 40 74
18 l 3 22 64
5 5 5 18
15
12
3
23
J9 7 1
10 10 H 18
4 4 6 10
20 19 38 89
23 23 47 66
4 4 12 16
18 21 27 66
44 43 5 1 141
25 26 38 85
23 *5 29 83
35
3 o 49 95
14 21 43
32 33 5° 110
*7 10 20 5 i
24 10 20 44
3 1 14 22 69
28 28 29 5 i
45 41 47 108
38 36 39 “ 3
22 21 45 97
38 42 62 78
34 10 27 84
12 i3 16 19
29 13 21 3 1
2 2 13 14
45 3 4 64
27 19 3 1 60
7 3 10 3 1
7 4 9
37 35
19 24
7 9
13 12
18 24
The
Digitized by Goggle Original from
M P / i / Dl IP I \r I I R B A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 93
The NEW SOUTHERN CONSTELLATIONS.
Columba Naochi Noah’s Dove 10
Robur Carolinum The Royal Oak 12
Grus The Crane *3
Phoenix The Phenix
Indus The Indian 12
Pavo The Peacock 14
Apus. AvisIndico The Bird of Paradife 11
Apis, Mufca The Bee or Fly 4
Chamaelion The Camelion 10
Triangulum Auftralis South Triangle 5
Pifcis volans, Flying Fifh 8
Dorado, Xipbias Sword Fifh 6
Toucan American Goofe 9
Hydrus Water-Snake 10
HEVELIUS’s CONSTELLATIONS made out of the unformed Stars.
Lynx The Lynx
H
evel.
19
F
liim
ft.
44
Leo minor
Afteron & Chara
The Little Lion
The Greyhounds 23
53
25
Cerberus
Vulpecula& Anfer
Cerberus
The Fox and Goofe
4
27 35
Scutum Sobiefki
Lacerta
Sobiefki’s Shield
Lizard
7
16
Cameleopardalus Cameleopard 32 58
Monoceros Unicorn 19 3 l
Sextans Sextant 11 4 *
Thefe conftellations, or groupes of fixed ftars, have doubtlefs their
diftin6l energy and inflence in the operations of nature; although we
have not means fufficient to diftinguiih them all, according to their
peculiar virtues. The nearer they are fituated to the ecliptic line, and
the zodiac, fo much the apter are they to operate in the common a<£ts
of nature; and fo much the mpre eaiily allured into the opportunities
of our acquaintance. Of the firft magnitude we have extraordinary in-
ftances of that ftar in Leo, called Cor Leonis, in twenty-five degrees of the
fign, to be of the nature of Mars and Jupiter mixed together ; and is a
ftar greatly contributing to noble qualifications, and kingly favour. Fa­
mous alfo is the knowledge of S
p
i
c
aa
ftar of Virgo by conftella-
tion, but in thefign Libra : this ftar partakes both of the nature of Venus
and Mars, and contributes greatly to ecclefiaftical preferments. After
thefe are very well known the ftars called Aldebaron in Gemini, and
A ntaret
Digitized by G O U ^ l C
Original from
MCIA/ Dl ID I Ir I ID D A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
94
Antares in Sagittary, both liars of the nature of Mars, provoking to
courage and magnanimity, but inclining to violence and cruelty. Of
the fecond magnitude are the South , and the Head of Pollux,
both liars of a furious and violent nature. Of the third magnitude, >
the Head of Medufa,orAlgol,is famous for its mifchievous inclinations ;
and fo are the two AJfes, liars of the fourth magnitude. Of the fifth
magnitude are the Pleiades, liars of remarkable influence, and celebrated
for their fweet and benevolent nature. Stars of the fixth magnitude
are very fmall ; yet, notwjthllanding this, they are not without their
operations upon earthly things j as in the breall of the Crab, called
Prcefepe, are feveral little liars which appear only like a white cloud,
and yet the force of this conllellation has been often felt in the affairs
of mankind. Thefe fixed liars alfo often prove their force in the change
of weather, as they happen to rile, culminate, or fct, with the fun,
moon, and planets.
But the conllellations which form the twelve figns of the zodiac have
obvioully the moll powerful and moll immediate operation upon man j
and the reafon is, becaufe they form the pathway of the fun, moon, and
planets, in all their peregrinations, and thereby receive from them a
more forcible power and energy. And, as thefe.figns form a confiderablc
part of the Science of Allrology, we lhall confider them under all their
various qualities and affections, both with refpecl to their operations upon
man’s body and upon the four feafons of the year. Thefe figns are
known or dillinguilhed by the following charaders :
Aries as Cancer & Libra
« Taurus SI Leo rn. Scorpio
n Gemini *
$
.
Virgo / Sagittarius
Vf Capricornus
~ Aquaries
x Pifees'*1
*
They are placed in this order, and divided into fqpr equal parts, an-
fwering to the four quarters of the year, becaufe the equator cuts and
divides the circle of the zodiac at the point beginning with Aries, and at
the oppofite point of Libra, dividing the whole into two equal parts,
confilling of fix northern and fix fouthern figns. But the reafon why
the fun’s courfe begins and is reckoned from Aries is, as tradition in­
forms us, becaufe the fun, when firll brought into exiltence, was
placed in this fign. And this is not an unreafonable conje&ure, fince
the fpring quarter begins when the Sun enters Aries, and brings with
it increase and length of days, and all nature begins to multiply and
flourilh, and, as it were, to rife into new life. The fix northern figns
terminate with Virgo, and the fix fouthern commence with Libra j but
the northern figns have always been confidcred of a more efficacious and
noble nature than the fouthern.
Philofophers
Original from
M P I A / v r \ D V m I DI I f* I I D D A D V
Digitized by Got. ale
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 95
Philofophers have alfo afiigncd another reafon for this order and di-
vifion of the twelve figns of the zodiac, namely. That Nature works by
oppofition and contrariety, and thus brings about the four ftates of all
elementary bodies, viz. generation, confervation, corruption, and anni­
hilation. As therefore generation is the firft ftate, and is produced and
nourifhed by heat, they begin with the fiery fign Aries. The next
quality being confervation, or durability, they fignify the fame by
placing an earthy fign next in order, lince earth gives permanency and
fixation to corruptible bodies. The third quality being corruptible,
it is reprefented by an airy fign, becaufe air is known to be the fource
of putrefaftion. The laft ftate of an elementary body is its final end,
or dilfolution; and, as water dilfolves all corruptible bodies, fo have
they deferibed it by placing a watery fign the laft of all. In this ar­
rangement of the figns of the zodiac we may further obferve, that two
paflive principles are placed between two active ones j and, as our all­
wife 'Creator hath fo conftructed nature, that the oppofition of one
thing fhould occafion the exiftence or duration of another, fo we may
obferve it in the divifions of the zodiac j for inftance, Aries, a fiery fign,
is placed oppofite to Libra, which is an airy fign; and in all refpects
refembles a man fitting before a fire with a pair of bellows in his hands,
blowing to keep it burning : for, without air, fire is foon extinguifhed.
In the fame mannfer it is with the water and the earth $ but, to make
thefe obfervations more apparent, we will arrange the figns of the zodiac
under all their different qualities and forms.
The Divifions of the Twelve S I G N S of the Z O D I A C .
Signs oppofite are the f «v » n s si «
t
t
Northern and commanding,
firft fix to the laft fix\ <
a
>
n
i t Y? x
x Sou
Some are Mafculine, as r n si a f s Fiery and airy, mafeuline.
Some are Feminine, as « es y x Earthy and watery, feminine.
Airy n <
e
= z
zH
ot and moift.
-Watery aa nj, x Cold and moift*
Equinoctial «r «
e
»
as
# SI ni ss
n na t k
V 25 a Y f
Tropical
Fixed
Common
Moveable
No. 5. U Theft
Digitized by Google iiinAfvrvrn/ ni mi 1
r*1idd adv
Original from
96 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Thefefigns are term
edJixed, c
o
m
m
o
n
, and , becauf
everthefunis inanyoneofthem
, it anfw
ersto the feafonof theyeari
thew
eather beingtheneitherm
oveable, or fixed; orbetw
eenboth.
"Springquarter V n
_Sum
m
erquarter 25 a
Autum
nquarter A m t
(/W
inter quarter V ss K
A
ries begins the fpringquarter, forwhich reafonall therevolutions!
figures, either for the w
orld or for particular dates, are fet.from the
funenteringthefirft pointoftheequinoctialfignA
ries.
Bicorporal ordouble! n x
bodied j / Mt
hefird part ofthefignonly.
Fruitful Signs S
B »
n K
Barren n a n.
Humaneorcourteous n
M
utefigns, or flowoffpeech S
B n K
Feral figns < a fr thelafl; partonly.
Signs ofright orlongafcenfions sb a 1
5 a ttt .fr
Signs offliort andobliqueafcenfions x n
r B n
Signsbroken Si X
Signs whole s
+
m
PW n
Signs fortunate V n a & $ ss
Signs unfortunate B 03 «t x
Signs fw
eet n ««■
m
m
Signs bitter a t
Signs w
eak * y f
Signs drong a m
m
m
m
Som
e figns are controvertible in their nature, according to their
accidental fituation in the heavens, as n and a in the ead are hot
and dry, » and m hottilh, t cold and m
oid, cold and dry. In
thewed n m and fc
f are cold andmoid, y cold, t hot and dry.
Thefequalitiesareabfolurtelyneceflarytobeobferved in judgingofthe
weather.
W
henthe m
oon, or lord of the afcendant, is pofited, at anativity,
inanyof thefignsw
etermhot, thenativewill be m
anlyand vigorous,
and
Digitized by Got.'sle Original from
MCUU V n R f c ' D I I P I Ir I I B D A R V
L
s
U
l
11CJU!,
K
J
U
U
y
i
C
-
U
i
y
i
L
I
^
C
U
/
I
I
L
L
f
J
.
/
/
W
W
W
.
I
I
d
U
I
I
I
!
U
O
L
.
U
I
y
/
y
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
b '9itj
uumaiu,
vu
uyie-u
iyiuteu
/
n
u
fj.//n
w
w
.n
a
u
iiu
uai.ui
y/dLLea;>_uae^fju-yuuy/i
&
\ >
?;
■
9 .
THE NEW YORK
P u b l i c l i b r a r y
ASTOR, LENOX
T1LDEN R'l>I.U..r'ON",
D» ^ b> G o o g l e
HEW/
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 97
and choler will abound in him ; but, if any of thofe figns we term cold,
he will then be meek, womanifh, and effeminate; all which affedtions
proceed from phlegm.
There are figns called quadrupedian, or four-footed, as Y # si / Hr,
becaufe thofe creatures from whence they are named have four feet;
and in a nativity, where either of them afcend, they import that the con-
ftitution of the native partakes much of the nature of that creature they
reprefent; for inftance, if Aries afcends, then he will be hot and dry, and
partake of the qualities of the ram ; if Taurus be lord of the afeendant,
he will be furious, as the bull; if Leo afcend, he will be in nature bold
and magnanimous; if Sagittarius, he will be perfevering and intrepid;
if Capricorn, he will be luftful and libidinous, like the goat. So there
are figns of humanity, as n in & z , and the firft part of / ; and in
nativities where any of thefe figns afcend, or in which the lord of the
afeendant is placed, itfignifies that the native is of a friendly difpofition.
humane, affable, and courteous ; of an excellent carriage, and engaging
behaviour. Again, fome figns are called fruitful, as as nj. x ; and, if
the afeendant or his lord, or the moon, be placed in any one of thefe, or
if the cufp of the fifth houfe has one of thefe upon it, or if his lord be
pofited in one of them, the native will have many children, or will be
of a prolific conftitution ; but, if barren figns polfefs the aforefaid places,
then, according to the plain courfe of nature, fterility and barrennefs
will follow. There are alfo fome figns termed mute, as as nj, x . If
any of thefe afcend in a nativity, and Mercury, who is the general fig-
nificator of fpeech, be afflidted by the planet Saturn and the Dragon’s
Tail in an evil houfe of heaven, and the afeendant alfo vitiated, the na­
tive will be born dumb ; if Mercury be free, and the afeendant only
afflidted, or if the afeendant be free, and Mercury afflicted, the native
will be generally filent, and flow of fpeech. But, if figns of voice afcend
in a nativity, as 1
1 nR 23 t the native will poflsfs a volubil
fpeech, and be a good orator. Again, fome figns are feral, i. e. brutifh,
or favage; fuch are siand the laft part of Sagittarius. Some
termed hoarfe, or whifttyig, as Y 8 ; and whenever Leo, or the
laft part of Sagittarius, afcend in a nativity, the native will be brutifhly
inclined, and pofl'efs an unfeeling and cruel difpofition. Thofe perfons,
in whole nativity Y a & V are horofcopical, have a conftant hoarfe-
nefs or whiffling in their delivery and fpeech, though otherwife quick
and voluble enough ; and thofe perfons are generally crooked, deformed,
or imperfedtly born, who have a afeending, and Caput Algol pofited
in the afeendant.
There are alfo degrees which are termed mafeuline, feminine, light,
dark, fmoky, pitted, azimene or deficient, and increafing fortune;
thefe are all exhibited at one view in the following table,
A TABLE
Original from
mc\a/ v n nv di im 1
r i i
Digitized by Google
98 AN i l l u s t r a t i o n
ATABLE exhibiting the A ffections and S ignifications of the
D egrees in each S ign of the Z odia c.
cn
trp’
3
(A
V
a
n
E5
D
e
g
re
e
s
M
a
fe
u
lin
e
D
e
g
re
e
s
F
e
m
in
in
e
D
e
g
re
e
s
L
ig
h
t
D
e
g
re
e
s
D
a
r
k
D
e
g
re
e
s
S
m
o
k
y
D
e
g
re
e
s
V
o
id
P
itte
d
o
r
D
e
e
p
D
e
g
re
e
s
D
e
fic
ie
n
t
o
r
A
z
im
c
n
e
D
e
g
re
e
s
D
e
g
re
e
s
en
c
re
a
fin
g
F
o
rtu
n
e
8 »S
30
9
22
8 20
2 9
A 0 2 4
3 0
6 11 16
2 3 29
0 *9
II 21
3 °
S ' 7
24
7 15
2 8
3
30 0
12
20
5 12
24 25
6 7 8
9 lo
3 IS
, 27 .
16
26
5 22
3 °
4 12
22
7
2 7
0
16
30
2 12 17
26 30
0
9 10 11
12 13
1 4 15
II
1 2 3
4 *s
* 10
23 30
8 12
27
12^
28 14
2o
18
3 °
1 2 17 23
26 30
a
S *s
3 °
8
2 3
30 10 20
2S 6 13 IS
22 23 28
18 27
28
2 5 7
19
12
3 °
8
20
8
16
5
_ 3 ° _ 22
10
2 7
8 13 16
21 22 0 3 14
2 o
5 20
3 °
l s'
2 7
5
27
10
21 0 3 0
17
20 30
0 3 is
21
« i 4 »7
3 °
1 4
2 5
8
22
3
3 0 24
14
29
9 IO 22 ~
23 27
l 9
28
7 18
20
t
2 12
30
5
24
9 *9
30
12 * 3
0 7 12 i s
24 27 3o
I 7 8
18 19 13 2®
kf
I I
3 0
10
10
19
7 22
30 *5 2 5
7 17 22
24 2 9
26 27
28 29
12 12
I4 20
5 21
27
IS *s
_ 3 2 _
9 21
3 ° 13 4 2S
I 12 17
22 24 29 18 I9 7 1^
17 20
X
10 23
3 °
20
• 28
12 22
28
6 18
3 °
0 2 5
4 9 24
27 28 O
-- i.
13 20
In the firft column againft you find 8. 15. 30, under the column of
mafeuline degrees ; and under the column of feminine, you have 9. 22,
•which fhews that the firft eight degrees of T are mafeuline, and the
ninth degree feminine; from 9 to 15 are mafeuline, and from 15 to 22
feminine ; and from 22 to 30 are mafeuline. The ufe of which is, that, if
the principal fignificator in a nativity be pofited in the degrees and figns
mafeuline, be the native male or female, it argues, that he or fhe fhall
inherit a more mafeuline temper and refolution than ordinary. But, if
the fignificator be in feminine figns and degrees, then the native will be
more effeminate, timid, and lefs robuft. The fame obfervation holds
good with refpeft to the other figns and degrees, as in the table they
ftand direcled. The fourth column points out that there are certain de­
grees in each fign, which are termed ; and, if either of thefe afeend
2 in
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
mcxa/ v n R k ' di im 1r i i r r a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 99
in a nativity, the native will be of a fairer and clearer complexion than
ordinary. The fifth column {hews that there are degrees termed or
obfcure ;and, whenever thefe happen to be horofcopical in a nativity, they
declare the native to be of a dark or fallow complexion, and, if he fhould
be born deformed, his deformity will be confiderably greater. The fixth
column thews which degrees of the zodiac are called ; and, if any
of them arife on the eaftern fineter at the time of birth, they declare the
native of a mixed complexion, neither fair nor fwarthy, but partaking of
both ; and fimilar to his complexion will be his underftanding. The
feventh column thews which of the degrees of the zodiac are called void;
and, if the afcendant in the radix of any nativity be pofited in them, it
delares an imbecility in the judgment and underftanding of the native;
and, the farther he enters into converfation or bufinefs, the more obvious
will this defedt appear. The eighth column points out what degrees in
each of the twelve figns are called deep and pitted; and thefe, in a nativity,
fignify, that if the afcendant, his lord, or the moon, be fituated in any of
them, the native will be of a hafty and imperfedt fpeech, incapable of ex-
preffing his defires, or of declaring his fentiments and will be always in­
volved in vexatious litigations and difputes j and, like a man in a or
fnare, will tvant the afliftafice of another to help him out. The ninth
column diftinguithes the a z i m e n e ,lame, or deficient, degre
nativity any one of thefe afcend, or the lord of the afcendant, or the mbon,
be in any of them, the native will be crooked, lame, or deformed, or in
fome manner vitiated in the member or part of the body that the fign
governs in which fuch azimene degrees thall happen to be. This rule
is fo unexceptionable and invariable; that it ought to be well confidered
in the judgment of every nativity. The tenth column points out all the
degrees in the twelve figns that are augmentors or increafers of fortune;
and the knowledge to be derived from them is, that if, in a nativity,-the
cufp of the fecond houfe, or lord of the fefrond, Jupiter, or part of for­
tune,. be in degrees augmenting, they ^hen '■■become arguments of much
wealth ; and prefage that the native thall, according to his capacity or
fituation in life, attain to ftill greater honour, riches, and preferment.
But, befides thefe general properties, each of the figns potTd's' a parti­
cular efficacy and virtue peculiar to themfelves, or to that part of the hea­
vens wherein they bear rule. For, as upon earth all ground will not
bring forth the fame fruit, fo in the heavens all places or parts thereof
will not produce the fam$eftcdts. Upon the earth, a man in his journey
rides over ten miles, more or lefs, upon the fands ; at another time, he
traces over as many miles more upon the clay ; and, after that, he pro­
ceeds on another ten miles upon the marl and gravel. Similar to this,
by the molt correct obfervation, appears to be the alternate variations of
No. 5. X the
Digitized by Goi sle Original from
KIPM V n Qlf Dl IP I IC I IDD ADV
uuiM
diM
,
u
u
u
y
ie
-
u
i
y
iLiz.eu
/
i
ill|j.//vvwvv.i
i
d
u
n
u
ubL.ui
y/cJLt.eb^_ube-w-pu-yuuy
le
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
the heavenly matter. This we ftwll render apparent, by examining the
different and diftindt qualities of every fign throughout all the degrees of
the zodiac. And firft
Of A R I E S, r .
This fign, obfervation and experience both inform us, is hot and
dry, like a high gravelly or Tandy ground 5 and, when this fign afcends
at a birth, or if the fun or moon be pofited in it, it ufually contributes
unto the native a dry body, lean and fpare, ftrong and large bones and
limbs, piercing eyes, a fwarthy or fallow complexion, and fandy-co-
loured or red hair, and inclines him to be choleric, brutal, violent, and
intemperate ; that is, this fign naturally produces thefe effedls. But, if
the planets Jupiter or Venus be in the afeendant, or in this fign, it very
materially alters both the conftitution and complexion of the native for
the better; but, if Saturn or Mars be pofited there, then it is altered
confiderably for the worfe *. For, as forne land will bear wheat, and
other land only rye, and yet, by adding comport to it, or by ordering it
accordingly, the nature of the mold may oftentimes be changed, and
made to bring forth fruit contrary to its own nature :—juft the fame it
is when the planets, or their afpe&s, fall ftrongly into a fign; they quite
change its nature and effedt; but,- if none of thefe happen, then the fign
Aries, and the reft, unalterably purfue their own nature.
Aries is an equinoftial, cardinal, diurnal, moveable, fiery, choleric,
hot and dry, luxurious, violent, fign; eaftern, and of the fiery triplicity.
It is the day-houfe of Mars, and confifts of twelve ftars. The difeafes
- produced by this fign are the fmall-pox and falling ficknefs, apoplexies,
head-ach, megrims, baldnefs, and all difeafes of the head and face, hair-
lips, ring-worms, meafles, fevers, convulfions, and the dead palfy.——
The regions over which Aries prefides, are England, France, Baftarnea,
Syria, Paleftine, the Upper Burgundy, Germany, Switzerland, the Up­
per Silefia, the Leffer Poland, Denmark, and Judea; the cities of Naples,
Capua, Ancova, Imolia, Ferrara, Florence, Verona, Lindavia, Brunf-
wick, Craconia, Marfeilles, Saragoffa, Barganum, Caefarea, Padua, Au-
gufta, and Utrecht. In man. it governs the head and face; and the
colour it rules is white mixed with red.
T A U R U S , «.
Taurus differs greatly from the preceding fign, being in nature cold
and dry, as if out of a hot and fandy foil a man were on a fudden to
enter into a cold deep clay country. If this fign afcends at a birth, or is
* See Do&. ofNat. lib. i. cap. 10. fe£t. i.
2 pofited
Digitized by C j O O Q I C
Original from
ICIA/ V r i R t ' Dl IP I Ir I I R D A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . IOI
pofited in the fun or moon’s place, it ufually renders a perfon with a
broad brow, thick lips, dark curling hair, of qualities fomewhat brutal
and unfeeling; melancholy, and flow to anger; but, when once enraged,
violent and furious, and difficult to be appeafed. Hence it follows that
this is an earthy, cold, dry, melancholy, feminine, fixed, nodturnal,
fign ; fouthern, and of the earthy triplicity; the night-houfe of Venus ;
and contains twenty-three ftars. The difeafes incident to this fign are,
cold and dry melancholic habits, fluxes of rheum, wens in the neck, fore
throats, king’s-evil, quinfeys, and confumptions. The regions over
which itprefides are, Perfia, Media, Parthia, Cyprus, the iflandsof the
Archipelago, the Lefler Alia, White Ruffia, the Greater Poland, Ireland,
Lorraine, Helvetia, Rhetica, Franconia, and Switzerland; with the cities
of Mantua, Borronia, Parma, Sens, Terentia, Bythinia, Panorum, Heri-
opolis, Leipfic, and Nantz. In man, it governs the neck and throat;
and the colour it rules is red mixed with citron.
G E M I N I , n .
Gemini is in nature hot and moift, like a fat and rich foil ; and pro­
duces a native fair and tall, of ftraight body and fanguine complexion,
rather dark than clear ; the arms long, but oftentimes the hands and feet
(hort and fleffiy : the hair and eyes generally a dark hazle, of perfedl
fight, and lively wanton look, the underftanding found, and judicious
in worldly affairs. Gemini is defined an airy, hot, moift, fanguine,
double-bodied, mafculine, diurnal, weftern, fign, of the airy triplicity.
It is the dayhoufe of Mercury; and confifts of eighteen fixed ftars.
The difeafes.produced by this fign are, all the infirmities of the arms,
lhoulders, and hands, phrenzy-fevers, corrupt blood, fradures, and dif-
orders in the brain. The regions over which it prefides are, the weft:
and fouth weft of England, Brabant, Flanders, America, Lombardy/
Sardinia, and Wittembergia; the cities of London, Mentz, Corduba,
Bruges, Hasford, Norringberg, Louvaine, Mogontia, and Verlailles.
In man he governs the hands, arms, and (houlders; and rules all mixed
red and white colours.
C A N C E R , s .
This fign, like a watery moorifh land, is by nature cold and moift;
and, when it afcends at the time of birth, it yields a native fair and pale,
of a flaort and fmall ftature, the upper part of the body generally large,
with a round face, brown hair, and grey eyes ; of qualities phlegmatic
and heavy, effeminate conftitution, and fmall voice ; if a woman, inclin­
ed to have many children. Cancer is the only houfe of the moon, and
Digitized by Google Original from
MPJi/ V f l D V Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
a
i
f
S
n
n
f
i
-
n
r
l
#
a
Q
n
q
q
a
-
^
p
/
F
i
i
m
<
;
n
m
i
h
p
i
r
aaaaaa
/
/
,
H
tii
i
/
n
a
y
n
i
f
i
m
-
a
i
f
i
n
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
102 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
is the fird fign of the watery or northern triplicity ; it is a watery, cold,
moid, phlegmatic, feminine, nodlurnal, moveable, fruitful, foldicial,
fign ; and comprehends nine fixed dars. Peculiar to this fign are all dis­
orders of the bread and domach, pleurifies, indigedion, fliortnefs of
breath, want of appetite, cancers, coughs, phthijics, dropfies. Surfeits,
impodhumes, adhmas, and consumptions. The regions which are
more immediately under the government of this fign, are Scotland, H ol­
land, Zealand, Grenada, Burgundy, Numidia, Africa, Bythinia, Phrygia,
Cholcis, and Carthage ; together with the cities of Condantinople, Tu­
nis,, York, St. Andrew’s, Venice, Algiers, Genoa, Amderdam, Mag-
denburg, Cadiz, St. Lucia, and New-York. In man, it governs the
bread, ribs, lungs, liver, pleura, and ventricle of the domach ; and the
colour it rules is green and rufl’
et.
L E O , .
Leo is the only houfe of the fun, by nature fiery, hot, dry, mafculine,
choleric, barren, and commanding ; eadern, and of the fiery triplicity ;
and claims twenty-Seven of the fixed dars. When this fign afcends in
a nativity, it denotes that the native will be of a large mafculine body,
broad fhoulders, and audere countenance ; dark or yellowidi hair,' large
commanding eye. Sprightly look, and drong voice ; the vifage oval, and
ruddy, or Sanguine; a refolute and courageous Spirit, afpiring mind, free
and generous heart, with an open, bold, and courteous, difpofition. It
mud however be remarked, that the beginning and middle of this Sign
produce all the above faculties in the greated degree of drength ; and
that, in 'the latter part of the fign, the native will be rather Spare and
thin, with light flaxen hair, and of a weaker conditution and tempera­
ture. The difeafes produced under Leo, are all the paflions and affec­
tions of the heart, as convulfions, fwoonings, tremblings, qualms, violent
fevers, plagues, pedilences. Small pox, meafles, yellow jaundice, pleu­
rifies, fore eyes, and all difeafes arifing from choler, and all pains in the
back, ribs, and bowels. The provinces under the rule of Leo are, Italy,
the Alps, Silicia, Bohemia, Phcenicia, Chaldea, part of Turkey, and
Apulia; alfo the cities of Rome, Damafcus, Cremona, Prague, Linzi-
nus, Philadelphia, Syracufe, Bridol, Crotona, and Ravenna. In man, it
governs the heart and back, the vertebra of the neck, and pericranium.
It rules the colours red and green.
V I R G O ,
Virgo is an earthy, cold, dry, barren, feminine, Southern, no&urnal,
melancholy, fign, of the earthy triplicity, and the houfe and exaltation of
Mercury, confiding of twenty-four fixed dars. When this fign afcends,
it
Original from
M P 1A I v n o k ' D I I P I i r I I P D A D V
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 103
it perfonates a decent and wcll-compofed body, flender, and above the
middle ftature, of a ruddy brown complexion, black or dark brown lank
hair, the vifage fomewhat round, the voice fmall and flirill, a witty and
ingenious mind, ftudious, but rather unftable j and, if the afcendant be
free froth the malevolent afpetts of Saturn, and this fjgn afcends with
Mercury therein, the perfon who hath them fo fituated at his birth will
be an excellent orator. The particular difeafes of this fign, are thofe
produced by worms, wind, and obftru6lions; hardnefs of the fpleen, mo­
ther, hypocondriac melancholy, cholic, and iliac paflion. The regions
under the government of Virgo, are Babylon, Mefopotamia, Aflyria, A-
chaia, Greece, Croatia, Corinthia, Crete, the Duchy of Athens, part of
Gallia Comata, part of Rhenus and the Lower Silefia; with the cities of
Jerufalem, Corinth, Navarre, Arethium, Brundufium, Padua, Touloufe,
Paris, Bafil, Cratiflavia, Heidelburg, Sigina, Erphordia, and Lyons. In
man it governs the belly, bowels, fpleen, omentum, navel, and dia­
phragm ; and it rules the colour black l'peckled with blue.
L I B R A ,
Libra is a fign aerial, fanguinei hot, and moift, equinodiial, cardinal,
moveable, mafculine, wellern, diurnal, and humane ; the day-houfe of Ve­
nus, of the airy triplicity, andconfifts of eight liars. At a birth it pro­
duces one of a tall, llrait, and well-made, body ; of a round, lovely, and
beautiful, vifage, a fine fanguine complexion in youth, bu t in old age com­
monly brings pimples, or a very deep red colour in the face ; the hair yel­
low, or fomewhat tending to flaxen, long and lank, grey eyes, of a cour­
teous friendly difpofition, with a mind juft and upright in all itspurfuits.
The difeafes common to this fign are, the Hone, gravel, heat, wind, cho­
lic, and difeafes in the loins, impollhumes or ulcers in the reins, bladder,
or kidneys j corruption of blood, weaknefs in the back, and gonorrheas.
The regions under its peculiar fway, are Ballriana, Cafpia, Seres, Oalis,
./Ethiopia, Sabandia, Alfatia, Sundgavia, Livonia, Auftria, Pannonia, Por­
tugal, and the Dukedom of Savoy. Alfo the cities of Lifbon, Spria,
Placentia, Lauday, Frielbury, Heilbom, Antwerp, Frankfort, Vienna,
Olyfiponis, Arafatum, Cajeta, Charles-Town, Suefla, Argentum, Velk-
kirchium, aud Halafrifinga. In man it governs the reins, kidneys, and
bladder; and the colours under its rule are black, darkcrimfon, or tawney.
S C O R P I O , tru
Scorpio is a moift, cold, phlegmatic, feminine, no&urnal, fixed,
northern, fign ; the night-houfe and joy of Mars, and is of the watery
trigon ; and includes twelve liars. It gives a ftrong, robuft, corpulent.
No. 5. Y body.
Original from
icuw d 11
d 1ir 1 i d d a r v
Digitized by ( j C K
104 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
body, of middle ftature, broad vifage, brown complexion, and brown
curling hair* an hairy body, (hort neck, and fhort thick legs, quick in
bodily motion, but referved and thoughtful in converfation. The dif-
eafes incident to Scorpio, are the ftone and gravel in the bladder, ftrangu-
ary, and other imperfeflions in the urinal paflage; ruptures, fiftulas, he­
morrhoids, venereal difeafs, running in the reins, priapifms, fcurvy, and
piles. It bears rule over the regions of Matragonitida, Commagena, Cap­
padocia, Judea, Idumea, Mauritania, Getulia, Catalonia, Norwegia, the
Weft Silefia, and the Upper Bavaria, the kingdom of Fez, and Barbary;
together with the cities of Algiers, Valentia, Trapizuntia, Aquila, Pof-
toria, Camerinum, Petavium, Mefllna, Vienna of the Allobroges, Ge-
dandum, Crema, Ariminum, and Frankfort upon Oder. In man it go-
'verns the privities, ‘feminal veflels, groin, bladder, and fundament; and
prefers a brown colour.
Sagittarius is afiery, hot, dry, mafculine, diurnal, eaftern, common, bi­
corporal, fign, of the fiery trigon; the houfe and joy of Jupiter; contain­
ing thirty-one ftars. At a birth it endows the native with a well-formed
body, rather above the middle ftature ; with an handfome comely coun­
tenance, a vifage fomewhat long, ruddy complexion, chefnut-coloured
hair, but fubjeOt to baldnefs; the body ftrong, active, and generally makes
a good horfeman ; ftout-hearted, intrepid, and carelefs of danger. The
difeafes proper to this fign, are the fciatica, windy gouts, running fores,
heat of the blood, peftilential fevers, and diforders produced by intem-
peratenefs, and falls from horfes. The regions under its government are
thofe of Arabia Felix, Tyrrhenia, Celtica, Hifpanicda, Dalmatia, Scla-
vonia, Hungaria, Moravia, Mifnia, Provincia, Lyguria, and Spain; the
cities of Toledo, Mutina, Narbonne, Avignon, Cologne, Agrippina,
Stutgardia, Rottemburgus, Cullen, Tuberinum Indemburges, and Buda.
In man it governs the thighs, hips, and os facrum, and rules the yellow
green colour, tending to red.
Capricorn is an earthy, cold, dry, melancholy, feminine, nodturnal,
moveable, cardinal, folfticial, domeftic, fouthern, quadrupedian, fign,
of the earthy tripjicity, the houfe of Saturn, and exaltation of Mars ; and
contains twenty-eight ftars. When this fign governs a nativity, it pro­
duces a flender ftature, of a dry conftitution, long thin vifage, fmall
beard, dark hair, long neck, and narrow chin and breaft; with a dif-
pofition colle£ied, witty, and fubtle. The difeafes peculiar to Capri*
corn, are the gout, fprains, fraftures, diflocations, leprofy, itch, fcabs.
S A G I T T A R I U S , *
C A P R I C O R N ,
and
Digitized b Google Original from
mcva/ v n c k ' di i p i i r i i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . i or
And all difcafes of melancholy, and hyfterics. The regions over which it
bears lway, are thofe of India, Ariana, Macedonia, Illyria, Thracia, Bof-
nia, Mexico, Bulgaria, Greece, Mufcovy, Lithuania, Saxony, Morea, the
Orcades, Stiria, Romandiola, Marchia, Heflia, TcriDgia, and Albany.
Likewife the cities of Juliacum, Chevonia, Berga, Mecklinberg, Gau-
danum, Vilna, Oxford, Brandenburgh, Augufla, Conftantia, Derrhona,
Feventra, Fortona, and Pratutn. In man it governs the knees and ham s;
and rules the black or dark brown colour.
A QJ J A R I E S , xs.
Aquaries is an hairy, hot, moift, rational, fixed, humane, diurnal, fan-
guine, mafeuline, weftern, fign j of the airy triplicity ; the day-houfe of
Saturn, and comprehends, in its degrees of the zodiac, twenty-four liars.
In a nativity, it denotes a perfon of well-fet, thick, robuft, ftrong, body,
long vifage, and pale delicate countenance; clear fanguine complexion,
with bright Tandy or dark flaxen hair. The difeafes common to this fign
are, lamenefs and bruifes in the ancles, fractures anddiflocations, corrup­
tion and putrefa lion of the blood, gouts, cramps, aptTrTtfeurnatilms. The
regions under its government are, Oxiana, Sogdiana,'the Deferts of Ara­
bia Petrea, Azania, Sarmatia, Great Tartary, Wallachia, RedN
Ruflia, Da-
nia, the fouth part of Sweden, Wellphalia, Moffelani, Pedemantum, part
of Bavaria, Croatia. Germany, and Mufcovy ; with the cities of Hamburgh,
Breva, Montferrat, Trent, Pifaurum in Italy, Salilburgus, Ingolftadius,
Forum, Sempronium, and Bremen. In man it governs the legs and an­
cles ; and rules the Iky-colour, or blue.
P I S C E S , x. '
Pifces is a watery, cold, moill, fe ninine, phlegmatic, nocturnal, com­
mon, bicorporal, northern, idle, effeminate, fickly, fruitful, fign, of the
watery triplicity, the houfe of Jupiter, and the exaltation of Venus ; and
confifts of twenty-four ftars. It produces a native of a fhort flature, pale
complexion, thick fhoulders, brown hair, of a flefhy body, not very up­
right ; round-fhouldered, with an incurvating of the head. The difeafes
produced by this fign, are gouts, lamenefs, and pains incident to the feet;
fait phlegm, biles, pimples, and ulcers proceeding from putrified blood ;
alfo all cold and moift difeafes. The regions it governs are Phazonia,
Nazomontidis, Garmatia, Lydia, Pamphilia, Silelia, Calabria, Portugal,
Normandy, Galicia, Lufitania, Egypt, Garomentus; and the cities of
Alexandria, Sibilia or Hyfpalis Compoftella, Parantium, Rhotomagum,
Normatia, Ratifbonne, and Rhemes. In man it governs the feet and toes,
nd prefides'over the pure white colour.
2 It
Original from
mcvu dm di ir i i d d a d v
Digitized by Goi gle
106 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
It may perhaps be thought, by Tome of my readers, that the foregoing
influences, attributed to the twelve figns of the zodiac, are merely con­
jectural and imaginary. But the artifl:, whoever he be, that has the
good fenfe to determine for himfelf, by the ftandard of experience and
obfervation only, will carefully attend to all that has been flated, as the
particular efFe6t and virtue of each refpeftive fign. For, without an
intimate acquaintance with them, no correct judgment can be formed
upon any nativity ; but, on the contrary, if the foregoing are ftri&ly at­
tended to, no one who tries them will ever find an error in his calculations.
Coiftfiderations
Digitized by C j O O Q I C
Original from
m c v a / v r i R t ' D i i m i r i i b b a r v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 107
Confederations on the Natural Properties, Influences, and Effects, of the
S U N , M O O N , and P L A N E T S.
T
HE importance of thefe celeftial luminaries in the fcale of Nature,
and the force of their operations upon the animal and vegetable
fyftems, require that they fhould be thoroughly inveftigated, and their
properties well underftood, before any advances are made in calculating
nativities, or refolving horary queftions. We fhall begin with Saturn,
the moft remote of the fuperior planets, and confider them individually,
in the following order :
Saturn h | Mars I Venus ?
Jupiter U J Luna D | Mercury g
And the central Sun o .
There are alfo other chara&ers which we fhall have occafion to fpeak
of. The Dragon’s Head 8 , the Dragon’s Tail e , and the Part of
Fortune ©. And firft.
Of S A T U R N , .
Saturn is the moft fupreme, or moft elevated, of all the planets, being
placed between Jupiter and the firmament, at about feven hundred and
eighty millions of miles from the fun. It travels in its orb at the rate of
eighteen thoufand miles every hour, and performs its annual revolution
round the fun in twenty-nine years, one hundred and lixty-feven days,
and five hours, of our tim e; which makes only one year to that planet.
And, though it appears to us no larger than a ftar of the third magnitude,
yet its diameter is found to be no lefs than lixty-feven thoufand Englifh
miles; and confequently near fix hundred times as big as the earth ! This
planet is furrounded by a thin broad ring, fomewhat refembling the ho­
rizon of an artificial globe j and it appears double when feen through a
good telefcope. It is inclined thirty degrees to the ecliptic, and is about
twenty-one thoufand miles in breadth j which is equal to its diftance
from Saturn on all lides. There is reafon to believe that the ring turns
round its axis, becaufe, when it is almoft edge-ways to us, it appears fome­
what thicker on one fide of the planet than on the other; and the thickefl
edge has been feen on different lides at different times. But, Saturn hav­
ing no vifible fpots on his body, whereby to determine the time of his
turning round his axis, the length of his days and nights and the pofition
of his axis are wholly unknown to us. He has two degrees forty-eight
minutes north, and two degrees forty-nine minutes louth, latitude. He
No. 5. Z is
Digitized by Go*, ale Original from
ME\/i/ v n c k ' Dl ID I Ir I I B R A B V
is retrograde one hundred and forty days, and ftationary five days before
and five days after his retrogradation.
Saturn is in nature cold and dry, occafioned by his being fo far re­
moved from the heat of the fun ; abounds in moift vapours, and is a me­
lancholy, earthy, mafculine, folitary, diurnal, malevolent, planet; and
the greater infortune. His effects, when lord of the afcendant, or prin­
cipal ruler of a nativity, with all his qualities, are as follow : he produces
a middle ftature, with a dark, fwarthy, or pale, complexion, fmall leer­
ing black eyes, broad forehead, lean face, lowering brow, thick nofe
and lips, large ears, black or brown hair, broad Ihoulders, thin beard,
with fmall lean thighs and legs. If this planet is well dignified at the
time of birth, the native will be of an acute and penetrating imagination ;
in his conduct, auftere j in words, referved j in fpeaking and giving, very
fpare ; in labour, patient; in arguing or difputing, grave j in obtaining
the goods of this life, ftudious and l’olicitous ; in his attachments, either
to wife or friend, conftant and unequivocal ; in prejudice or refentment,
rigid and inexorable. But, if this planet be ill dignified at the time of
birth, the native will be naturally fordid, envious, covetous, miftruftful,
cowardly, fluggilh, outwardly difiembling, falfe, ftubborn, malicious,
and perpetually diflatisfied with himfelf, and with all about him. When
Saturn is oriental, the human ftature will be fhorter than ufual, and, when
occidental, thin, lean, and lefs hairy. If his latitude be north, the na­
tive will be hairy and corpulent j if without any latitude, he will be of
large bones and mufcles $ and, if meridional, fat, fmooth, and flelhy ; in
his firft ftation, ftrong and well-favoured ; and, in his fecond ftation,
weak and ill-favoured. Thefe remarks likewife hold good with refpett
to all the other planets. It is alfo to be remarked, that, when Saturn is
fignificator of travelling, he betokens long and laborious journeys, peril­
ous adventures, and dangerous imprifonment. Saturn governs the fpleen,
right ear, bones, teeth, joints, and retentive faculty, in man ; and rules
every thing bitter, (harp, or acrid. His government and effedts in all
other refpedls are as follow.
Difeafes under Saturn.— All melancholy and nervous aflfedtions, quartan
agues, falling ficknefs, black jaundice, tooth-ach, leprofy, defluxions,
fiftulas, pains in the limbs and joints, gout, rheumatifm, hemorrhoids, *
deafnefs, infanity, palfy, confumption, dropfy, chin-cough, frattures,
apoplexies, and all phlegmatic humours; and, in conceptions, he rules
the firft and the eighth months.
Herbs and plants under Saturn.—-
Barley, fumatory, beec
birdsfoot, biftort, bucklhorn plantane, vervane, fpinach, bearsfoot, wolf-
bane.
Digitized by Goc ole Original from
M H A l V r \ Q l f Dl I P I I r I I B P A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 109
bane, fern, fage, box, poppy, angelica, tamarind, capers, rue, willow,
yew-tree, cyprefs-tree, hemp, pine-tree, wild campions, pilewort, clea­
vers, clowns woundwort, comfrey, cudweed, croflwort, darnel, dodder,
epithymum, elm-tree, ofmond royal, flea-wort, flix-weed, gout-wort,
(linking gladden, winter-green, hound’s tongue, hawk-weed, hemlock,
henbane, horfetail, knap-weed, knot-grafs, medlar, mofs, inullen, night-
(hade, polypody, quince, rupture-wort, rulhes, Solomon’s feal, yarrow,
cetrach, Saracen’s confound, lervice-tree, tamarifk, black-thorn, melan­
choly thiftle, thorowax, tutfan, aconite, afphodil, agnus callus, ftarwort,
orach, (hepherd's purfe, bl ick hellebore, mandrake, opium. Ingather­
ing his herbs, the ancients turned their faces towards the eall, in his
planetary hour, when in an angle, and eflentially fortified, with the moon
applying to him by fextile or trine.
Stones, m
e
t
a
l
s
, andminerals.—The fapphire, and lapis lazuli, or that
Hone of which azure is made; likewife all unpolilhed black and blue
(tones -
t the loadllone, tin and lead, and the drols of all metals.
Animals under S
a
t
u
r
n
.—The afs, the cat, the hare, moufe, dog, wolf,
bear, elephant, bafilifk, crocodile, fcorpion, adder, ferpent, toad, hog,
and all creeping things produced by putrefadlion. Alfo the tortoife, the
eel, and all kinds of (hell-fi(h. Among birds, the crow, lapwing, owl,
bat, crane, peacock, thrulh, blackbird, oftrich, and cuckow.
Weather and winds.—He brings cloudy, dark, obfeure, weather, with
cold biting winds, and thick, heavy, condenfed, air. Thefe are his
general effects ; but the more particular and immediate alterations of
weather produced by this planet are only to be known by his feveral
pofitions 3nd afpedts with other planets, fortitudes, and debilities, -of
which I (hall treat at large in my third book. Saturn delights in the
eaftern quarter of the heaveus, and caufeth the eaftern winds. He is
friendly to Jupiter, Sol, and Mercury, but at enmity with Mars, Venus,
and the Moon.
Triplicity and Jigns.— Hegoverns the fign Capricorn by night, and
Aquaries by day, and the airy triplicity by day. Of the weekly days
he rules Saturday, the firft hour from fun riling, and the eighth hour
of the fame day, and the firft hour of Tuefday night.
Regions under Saturn.—Bavaria, Saxony, Stiria, Romandiola, R.avenna,
Conftantia, and Ingoldftadt.
Tears.— Saturn’s greateft.year is four hundred and fixty-five ; his great
is fifty-feven ; his mean, forty-three and a half; and his lead, thirty.
The fignification of which, in aftrology, is, that, if a kingdom, city,
town#
Digitized by Google Original from
MPl/il v n e t ' Dl IP I i r I I D D A D V
I 10 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
town, principality, or family, takes its rife when Saturn is eflentially
and occidentally itrong, and well for tilled, it is probable the fame will
continue in honour and profperity, without any material alteration, for
the fpace of four hundred and fixty-five years. Again, if in a nativity
Saturn is well dignified, is lord of the geniture, and not affli&ed by any
crofs-afpefts, then the native, according to the common courfe of na­
ture, may live fifty-feven years ; if the planet be but meanly dignified,
then the native will not live more than forty-three years ; and, if he be
weakly dignified, he will not live more than thirty years ; for the na­
ture of Saturn at beft is cold and dry, whjch are qualities deftru&ive to
health and long life in man.
Orb.—Saturn’s orb is nine degrees before and after any afpedt ; that is,
his influence begins to operate, when either he applies, or any planet ap­
plies to him, within nine degrees of his perfedl afpedt; and his influence
continues in force until he is feparated nine degrees from the afpedt partial.
J U P I T E R , v .
Jupiter is the next planet below Saturn, and called th .
He appears to our fight the largeft of any ftar in magnitude except
V enus; and is of a bright refplendent clear afpedl. Modern aftronomers
have proved him to be four hundred and twenty-fix millions of miles from
the fun, and above a thoufand times bigger than our earth ; he goes in
his orbit at the aftonilhing rate of near twenty-fix thoufand miles an hour,
and his diameter is computed at eighteen thoufand Englifh miles, which
is more than ten times the diameter'of the earth. He conpletes his
courfe through the twelve figns of the zodiac in eleven years, three hun­
dred and fourteen days, and twelve hours. He is confiderably fwifter
in motion than Saturn; but to us his mean motion is four minutes
fifty-nine feconds; his fwifter motion fourteen minutes. He has exaltation
in fifteen degrees of Cancer ; fuflfers detriment in Gemini and Virgo,
and receives his fall in fifteen degrees of Capricorn. His greateft lati­
tude north is one degree thirty-eight minutes ; and his greateft latitude
fouth one degree and forty-minutes. He is retrograde one hundred
and twenty days ; and ftationary five days before and four days after his
retrogradation. His orb, or radiation, is nine degrees before and after
any of his afpedls.
Jupiter is a diurnal, mafculirie, planet, temperately hot and moift,
airy and fanguine; author of temperance, modefty, fobriety, and juf-
tice. He rules thelungs, liver, reins, blood, digeftive virtue, and na-
2 tural
Digitized by Google Original from
m c \ a / D i i m i r i i d r a d v
r n
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
ral faculties of man. When he prefides over a nativity, he gives an erect
and tall ftature, a handfome rofy complexion, an oval vifage, high fore*
head, large grey eyes, foft thick brown hair, a well-fet comely body, (hort
neck, large wide cheft ; robuft, ftrong and well proportioned thighs and
legs, with long feet j his fpeech fober and manly, and his converfation
grave and commanding. And, if well dignified at the birth, this planet
betokens moft admirable manners and difpofition to the native. He will
be in general magnanimous, faithful, and prudent, honourably afpiring
after high deferts and noble actions, a lover of fair dealing, defirous of lerv-
ing all men, juft, honeft, and religious j of eafy accefs, and of affable man­
ners and converfation ; kind and affectionate to his family and friends;
charitable and liberal to the utmoft extent of his abilities ; wife, prudent,
and virtuous, hating all mean and fordid actions. But, if Jupiter be ill-
dignified, and afflicted with evil afpeCts at the time of birth, he then be­
tokens a profligate and carelefs difpofition, of mean abilities, and (hallow
underftanding j a bigot in religion, and obftinate in maintaining errone­
ous doCtrines ; abandoned to evil company ; eafily feduced to folly and
extravagance ; a fycophant to every one above him, and a tyrant in his
own family. If the planet be oriental at the birth, the native will be
more fanguine and ruddy, with larger eyes, and more corpulent body,
and generally gives a mole or mark upon the right foot. If occidental,
then it beftows a moft fair and lovely complexion, particularly to a fe­
male ; the ftature fomeWhat ihorter, the hair light brown, or approaching
to flaxen, but thin round the temples and forehead.
«
Difeafes under Jupiter.— All infirmities of the liver, obftruCtions, plu-
rifies, apoplexies, inflammation of the lungs, infirmities in the left ear,
.palpitations o f the heart, cramps, pains in the back, diforders in the
reins, proceeding from corruption of blood; quinfies, windinefs, fevers,
proceeding from a fuperabundance of blood j all griefs in the head, pulfe,
feed, arteries, convulfions, pricking and (hooting in the body, and pu­
trefaction of the humours. In generation, he governs the fecond and the
oiinth months.
■Herbs and plants.— Agrimony, Alexander, afparagus, aven§, bay-tree,
elccaropaiu, beets, betony, borrage, bilberries, buglofs, chervil, colts­
foot, lweet cicely, cinquefoil, alecoft, dandelion, docks, bloodwort,
quickgrafs, endive, harts tongue, hyfop, liverwort, lungwort, fweet-
maudlin, pak-tree, red rofes, (age, faucealone, feurvy grafs, fuccory,
cherries, lady’s-th idle, barberries, ftrawberries, liquorice, apples, mul­
berries, myrobolans, olives, peaches, pear-tree, felf-heal, wheat, madder,
maftic, fugar, honey, rhubarb, violets, pomegranate, mint, faffron, daify,
feverfew, nutmegs, gilly-flowers, mace, cloves, flax, balm* fumitory, wild
No. 6. A a and
Digitized by Google Original from
MP\A/ V f l D VDI I DI i r I I D P A D V
112 a n i l L u s t r a t i o n
and fwecf marjoram, borrage, St. John’s wort, almond-tree, hazel, fig-
tree, goofeberry-tree, pine-tree, coral-tree, ivy, and the vine.—-Rule
forgathering, the lame as under Saturn.
Stoves, metals, and minerals,— The topaz, amethyft, marble, emerald,
.chryflal, fapphire, hyacinth, bezoar, and freeftone. Tin, lead, and
pewter.
Animals.—The unicorn, doe, hart, flag, ox, elephant, horfe, fheep,
and all domeftic animals, that do not fly the dominion of man. Alfo
the whale, dolphin, fea-ferpent, and fheth-fifh. Among birds, the eagle,
ftork, peacock, pheafant, partridge, ftock-dove, fnipe, lark, &c.
Weather and winds.— Jupiter produces pleafant, healthful, and l'erene,
weather; and governs the north and north-eaft winds. He is friendly
with Saturn, Sol, Venus, Mercury, and Luna, but at enmity with Mars*
We call Thurfday his day; and he rules on Sunday night. His influence
commences an hour after fun-rife, and he governs the flrfl hour and the
eighth.
Signs and triplicity.— He rules the celeftial fign Sagittary by day, and
Pifces by night. The effect of which is, that if Jupiter be flgnificator
in the revolution of any year, by day, and in Sagittary, he is fo much the
more fortified ; and if in Pifces, in a nofturnal revolution, the effect is
the fame. This obfervation extends to all the other planets. He pre­
sides over the fiery triplicity by n ig h t; fo that, if Jupiter be in twenty
degrees of Aries, or the tenth degree of Leo, in any revolution, he
fhall be accounted peregrine, as not having any dignity therein, being
neither in hishoufe, exaltation, term, triplicity, or face; but in z noc­
turnal revolution he would not be accounted peregrine, for then he would
have triplicity in both thefe figns.
Journeys.—
When he is flgnificator, he denotes pleafant travelling, good
fuccefs, fafety, health, and mirth.
Countries under Jupiter.— Spain, Hungary, Babylon, Perfia, and Cullen.
Colours under Jupiter.— Sea-green, blue, purple, afh-colour, a mixed
yellow and green.
Tears.—
Jupiter’s greateft year is four hundred and twenty-eight; the
longeft year he gives is fcventy-nine ; his mean year is forty-five; and his
leaft year is twelve,
M
A
R
S*
Original from
m t u / U A m / n i i d i i r* i i n n n n v
Digitized by Google
6 F A S T R O L O G Y . I J 3
M A R S .
Mars is next located to Jupiter, and is the firft planet above the earth
and moon’s orbit. His didance from the fun is computed at one hun­
dred and twenty-five millions of miles ; and, by travelling at the rate of
forty-feven thoufand miles every hour, he goes round the fun in fix hun­
dred and eighty-fix of our days, and four hours ; which is the exadt
length of his year, and contains fix hundred and fixty-feven days and
three quarters j but every day and night together is forty minutes longer
than with us. His diameter is four thoufand four hundred and forty-
four miles, which is but a fifth part fo large as the earth. He is of a
deep fiery red colour, and by his appulfes to fome of the fixed ftars, feems
to be encompalfed by a very grofs atmofphere. His mean motion is
thirty-one degrees twenty-feven minutes j and his fwift motion from
thirty-two to forty-four minutes. His exaltation is in twenty-eight de­
grees of Capricorn ;his fall in twenty-eight degrees of Cancer, and h
detriment in Libra and Taurus. His greateft north latitude is four <fc-
grees thirty-one minutes ; and his greateft fouth latitude fix degrees for-
ty-feven minutes. He is retrograde eighty days, and ftationary two or
three days before retrogradation, and two days before direction. 'H is orb
or radiation is feven degrees before and after any of his afpedts.
Mars is a mafculine nodturnal planet, in nature hot and dry, choleric
and fiery, the lefler infortune, author of quarrels, diftentions, ftrife, war,
and battle •, and rules the gall, left ear, head, face, ftnell, imagination,
and attractive faculty of man. This planet, prefiding at a birth, renders
upaftrong well-fet body, of fhort ftature, but large bones, rather lean
than fat j a brown ruddy complexion, red, fandy, flaxen, or light brown,
hair, round face, fharp hazle eyes, confident bold countenance, adtive and
fearlefs. If well dignified, the native will inherit a courageous and in­
vincible difpofition ; unfufceptible of fear or danger j hazarding his life
on all occafions, and in all perils ; fubjedt to no reafon in war or conten­
tion ; unwilling to obey or fubmit to any fuperior; regardlefs of all things
in comparifon of triumphing over his enemy or antagonift ; and yet pru­
dent in the management and diredtion of his private concerns. If the
planet be ill dignified, and afflidted withcrofs afpedts, the party will then
grow up a trumpeter of his own fame and confequence, without decency
or honefty ;a lover of malicious quarrels and affrays ; prone to wicked-
nefs and flaughter, and in danger of committing murder, of robbing on
the highway, of becoming a thief, traitor, or incendiary; of a turbulent
fpirit, obfcene, rafh, inhuman, and treacherous, fearing neither God nor
man, given up to every fpecies of fraud, violence, cruelty, and opprclfion.
If the planet be oriental at the nativity, the native will be above the middle
ftature, very hairy, and of a clearer complexion. If occidental,, the native
I. will
Digitized by Got. ole Original from
V n D ^ Dl IP I Ir I IDD A D V
i 14 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
will be fhort, of a more ruddy complexion, a fmall head, with yellow
Jiair, and a dry conflitution.
Difeafesunder Mars. Peflilental fevers, plagues, murrains, tertian
agues, megrims, carbuncles, yellow jaundice, burnings and fealdings,
ringworms, blifters, phrenzy fevers, all hot and feverifh complaints in
the head, bloody flux, fiftulas, difeafes of the genitals, wounds of every
defciiption, (lone in the reins and bladder, the difuria, ifeuria, diabetes,
flranguary, fmall-pox, fhingles, St. Anthony’s fire, choler, and all cho­
leric difeafes, wounds, or bruifes by iron orfire, overflowing of the gall,
and all effe&s proceeding from intemperate anger and paflion.
Herbs andplants. Arfe-fmart, aflarum, barberry-bufh, broom, fweet
bafil, broom-rape, butchers broom, bramble, brook lime, betony, crow­
foot, madder, wake-robin, cranes bill, cotton-thiftle, toad-flax, garlic,
hurt-bufh, hawthorn, hops, mafterwort, rocket, muftard, hedge-muftard,
ortions, dittany, carduus benedidus, radifh, horfe-radifh, rhubarb, rha*
phontic, monks rhubarb, thiflles, woolly thiftle, ftar-thiftle, treacle-rauf-
tard, dyers weed, wormwood, birthwort, camelion-thiftle, danewort, eflue,
cornel-tree, euphorbium, fpear-wort, white hellebore, fpunge, laurel fteel,
monks-hood, leeks, fcammony, colloquintida, elaterium, devilsmilk, net­
tles, ginger, pepper, red fanders, briers, cammoc, horehound, and all
trees that are prickly and thorny.—Rule forgathering, the fame as before;
Stones, m
e
t
a
l
s
, and minerals. The bloodftone, loadflone, jafper, touch-
ftone, adamant, amcthyft of divers colours ; antimony, ftone-ftilphur,
Vermillion, white arfenic, &c.
Animals. The maftiff, wolf, tyger, cockatrice, panther, and all fuch
beafts as are ravenous and wild. Alfo the fhark, pike, barbie, fork fifh,
all flinging water ferpents, and voracious fifh. Of birds, the hawk, kite,
raven, vulture, owl, cormorant, crow, magpye, and all birds of prey.
Weather and •winds. O f Mars proceed thunder and lightning, fiery
meteors, peflilential air, and all flrange phenomena in the heaven. He
rules the weflern winds j and is friendly with all the planets except the
moon. Tuefday is his day ; he rules the firfl and the eighth hours, and
Friday nights.
Signs and triplicily. Aries is his day-houfe, and Scorpio his night.
He bears rule over the watery trigon, viz. Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces.
Regions
Digitized by Google Original from
KIHAf v n o v ' Dl ID I Ir I I DE A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 115
Regions under Mars.-—Jerufalem, the Roman Empire, Evento, Saro«
matia, Lombardy, Batavia, Fcrraria, Gothland, and the third clima*te.
journeys.—
In journeys he portends danger of robbery, lofs of life, and
all the other perils attendant upon the traveller.
Years.— His greateft revolution-year is two hundred and fourteen ; his
great year is fixty-fix; his mean year is forty ; his leaftyear is fifteen.
The M O O N .
The Moon is next below Mars, being a fatellite or attendant on the
earth, and goes round it from change to change in twenty-nine days twelve
hours and forty-four minutes ; and round the fun with it every year. The
moon’s diameter is two thoufand one hundred and eighty miles; and her
diftance from the earth's centre is two hundred andfor.ty thoufand miles.
She goes round her orbit in twenty-feven days feven hours and forty-three
minutes, moving about two thoufand two hundred and ninety miles every
hour; and turns round her axis exacftly in the time that fhe goes round
the earth, which is the reafon of her always keeping the fame fide towards
us, and that her day and night taken together is as long as our lunar
month. She is an opaque globe, like the earth, and fhines only by re-
fledfing the light of the fun ; therefore, whilft that half of her which is
towards the fun is enlightened, the other part muftbe dark and invifible.
Hence the difappears when the comes between us and the fun; becaufe her
dark fide is then towards us. When fhe is gone a little way forward, we
fee a little of her enlightened fide ; \yhich ltill encrcafes to our view as
fhe advances forward, until fhe comes to be oppofite the fun, and theri her
whole enlightened fide is towards the earth, and fhe appears with a round
illumined orb, which we call the full moon, her dark fide being then
turned away from the earth. From the full fhe feems to decreafe gra­
dually as flie goes through the other half of her courfe, fhewing us lefs
and lefs of her enlightened fide every day, till her next change, or con­
junction with the fun, and then fhe difappears as before. Her mean mo­
tion is thirteen degrees ten minutes and thirty-fix feconds ; her l'wift
or diurnal motion often varies, but never exceeds fifteen degrees two mi­
nutes in twenty-four hours. Her greateft north latitude is live degrees
and feventeen minutes ; and her greateft fouth latitude is five degrees and
twelve minutes, or thereabouts. She is never ftationary nor retrograde,
but always direeft; though when fhe is flow in motion, and goes lefs than
thirteen degrees in twenty-four hours, fhe is confidered equivalent to a
retrograde planet. Her exaltation is in the third degree of Taurus; her
detriment in Capricorn, and her fall in three degrees of Scorpio. Her
No. 6. B b orb.
Digitized by Goc sle Original from
M P A f DI I DI Ir I I D D A D V
i !0 A N I - L ' L -IT'S T r m 'AVT I O N
b th / or’hldfation, is twelvudegreesbefore tmdafterariy of iher^afpe&s ;
and- fhe rules over all'infants uiMiMhe feventh/year-bf their..age.
/J
The Moon is Ydrhinine, no&Urnal, cold, moift, and phlegmatic. >Her
influence, in itfelf,‘is neither fortunate nornnfortunate, but as the happens
to fall in with the configurations of the other planets, and is then either
malevoldhtbr otftferwifeliS'lhbfeUfpeTftshappen to be. . And under-thefe cir-
cuthftimees fhe?t>eC<3me$'the mbfl: powerful of all theihaeavenly bodiesimher
operations, by reafon of her proximity to the earth, and the fwiftnefs of
her motion, by which fhe receives andttranfmits to us the light and in­
fluence of all the fuperiors by her configurations with them. When fhe
has fttU 'in a:ridtivity, the produce* i full ftatune, with fain and paU.^om-
■pk^ibn^ rou^d fatey'grey eyes, loweringt brow, very hairy,,.fho.rt arms,
thick handstand feet,< fwvooth: body,1
!inclinedi to be( fat, <rqrpu.lept„,,and
phlegmatic. ‘ If the- beimpedited of the. fun at the. time o f bblh, ,t^e
-kiareS a blemWh on of *
near the1 eye y if- the . be impedited in fu6p_ed$int
hoUles, th£‘
tflemitb wilhbe near the aye j^hut if with fixed .ftars^.and'jn
unfdpt-unattftangleSj- the blemith will fall.in.the eye; .and will affedl the
$ght. a If be^weli dignified at the nativity, the native wilLbe of foft
•'tfng^giftg ttlaffiners and difpofition, a .loven job the. polite arts, and of an
'•ingenious imagination,’ fond of. novelties, and; given. to:;travelling, or
,fam(blibgfabOut’4the‘00utitry ; unfbthle, and providing, only for the pre-
:cfente'Hhe,iCaieiefsiof fututity j timorous, prodig?h< and safily.affrighted
‘but-10vihgfpeJfce#» and .defiring to^five, free; from the.cares..and anxieties pf
thfe world. -If the native be- brought jupi to. a mechanical,employment,
4i4 WilP'-be!frequently tampering-’with a variety ,of different trades,,b,ut
'purfuingUlone of them long together. . If the Moon. be ill-dignified ajt the
'bfttlV the native will then- .be flathfulvandolent^and of-nctfore^ft ; given
•up-'to a drunken*' diforderly, beggarly, life, hating labc^r., lOf ^ny kind,of
•bufinefs'or employment. . When oriental, ifhe inclineth, rn<?re,to, corpu­
lence j- butv wheoaoccidiintah ratbeit.Jeqn, awkward, .and-.HMQnUfid*
feajitmder f<6e'tM»(?*.-;j-Tho pallfy,.chQlic, qootpJatQts of the bowels,
the ftone land gravely'overflowings.orrtibitru£liQns of the, tprn)s,,dropfy,
fluxes and dyferatery, all cold .^and nrheumatic complaints* yvo|rm% in .the
belly, difordeirs of the eyes, ifurfeits, oougbs, jcoovulbows,, falljng .fick-
nefs,* king’s-evil, impofthumesn: fmflll)-pox,t lethargy, .pfjeafles,, phren-
>-zies,^apoplexies*, vectigoj lunacyvnanslj.aU) cwde hpmpyrs ip any part -jof
the body. In conception fhe. mlesuhe feventh mftfith ; 3ndfgqvqrn$ tjhe
brainy the ftomach; obasvels, 'bladder*:-the left sy&iq pvjnn.andrithp right
eye in woman, land thewholoexpul'fivfi faculty.
K e rb s
Digitized by Go ale Original from
MPiAf di mi \r i i r b a d v
O ip :A S T R O X .O J C ;Y . ' .' 117
Herbs and plants.— Adder’s tongue, cabbages, colewrqrt, ducks-meat,
water-flag,Tily, w ater lily, fleur de luce, lettuce, fluellin, moonwort,
looftrife, moufe-ear, orpine, poppies, purflane, privet, rattlegrafs, turnips,
white roles, white and burnt faxifrage, wall-flowers, willow-tree, toadftool,
water plantane, water agrimony, water betony, houfeleek, moon-herb,
hyfl.op, cuc^yjtnber,^endive, mulhrocxms, poppies, linfeed, rapefeed, and
all luch herbs.p turn towards the moon, and'ihbreafe and decreafe as fhe
doth ; ,the .palm-trjge, which fends forth a twig every time the moon rifes,
arid all (uph .trees and plants as participate o*r lympathize With her, and
are juicy a.nd full of lap. In gathering her herbs, the fame rule fs to be
obfervcd as with the other planets. ‘ *
Stones and metals.—^All ftoncs that are white and green, the marcafite,
the chryflal, the fenenite, and all foft flones. Silver,' and all hard white
metals. And the colours white, pale green, and pale yellow.
Animals under the moon.— AH amphibious animals, or fuch as delight
in water, and all.that lympathize with the moon, as the camelion, dog,
hog, frog, hind, goaf, baboon, panther, cat, the civet cat, mice, rats,
&c. Among filhes, the aelurus, whofe eyes increafe and decreafe accord­
ing to the courle of the moon, and all other filhes of the like nature j the
tortoife, the echeneis, the eel, crab, oyfler, lobfter, cockle, mufcle, and
all kinds of (hell filh. Among birds,, the goofe, fwan, duck, dive-dap­
per, moorhen, the night-owl, night-raven, bat, and all forts of water-
fowl.
»'Weather and w/Wj.-r-She produces weather according to her configura­
tions with other planets,, viz. with Saturn, cold, moift, and cloudy, wea­
ther j with Jupiter, warm and temperate air ; with Mars, winds, clouded
Iky, and fudden florins; with, the Sun, Ihe varies the weather according
to the time of the year with ,Venus, warm and gentle lliowers ; with
Mercury, ftormy winds, and rain. But in the third part of this work, ,
we lhall treat of this fubjedt more particularly. . The moon always occa-
fions thofe winds figpified by the plane! to which Ihe applies in her con­
figurations. •
Signs And (ripjjfity.—;Of the celeftial figns, Ihe has only Cancer all otted
to her for her houfe. She rules the eartny triplicity by night, viz."Tau­
rus, Virgo, and Capricorn. c She is in friendfhip with Jupiter,. Sol^.Ve-
nus, and Mercury; but at enmity with Saturn'and Mars. Of the weekly
days, (he rules Monday, and Thurfday nights. ’
Regions.—;She has dominion over Denmark, Holland, Zealand, Flan­
ders, Noringberg, and North America. -toliaci -
■ir^Tr Tears.
Go sle Original from / J.
h iD Af v r » D t r n i i d 1 i r 1 i d d
ii8 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
/
Tears.t—Her greateft year is three hundred and twenty; her great !s one
hundred and eight ; her mean year is fixty-Iix ; and her leaft year is
twenty-five.
V E N U S ? .
Venus is the next planet below the earth and moon, having her orbit
within that of the earth. She is computed to be fifty-nine millions of
miles from the fun, and, by moving at the rate of fixty-nine thousand miles
every hour, (he pafies through the twelve figns of the zodiac in two
hundred and twenty-four days feventeen hours of our time nearly. Her
diameter is feven thoufand nine hundred and fix miles, and by her diurnal
motion ffie is carried about her equator forty-three miles every hour, be­
sides the fixty-nine thoufand above-mentioned. When fhe appears weft
of the fun, ffie rifes before him in the morning, and is called the morning
Jia r; but when ffie appears eaft of the fun fhe ffiines in the evening after
he fets, and is then called the evening f
i
a
r
and continues alternat
the fpaceof two hundred and ninety days in each of thefe fituations. It
tnay perhaps be thought furprifing at firft, that Venus lhould continue
longer on theeaft.or weft fide of the fun than the whole time of her pe­
riod round him ; but the difficulty vaniffies when we confider that the
earth is all the while going round the fun the fame way, though not fo
quick as Venus ; and therefore her relative motion to the earth mu.f . ■
.
■every period be as much flower than her abfolute motion in her orbit as
the earth during that time advances forward in the ecliptic, which is two
hundred and twenty degrees. To us (he appears through the telefcope in
all the various fhapes of the moon. Her mean motion is fifty-nine mi­
nutes eight l'econds ; and her daily or fwift motion is from fixty-two mi­
nutes to one degree twenty-two minutes, but never greater. Her utmoft
latitude, either north or fouth, never exceeds nine degrees two minutes.
Her exaltation is in twenty-feven degrees of Pifces ; her detriment in
Aries and Scorpio; and her fall in twenty-feven degrees of Virgo. She
continues retrograde forty-two days, and is ftationary two days before and
two days after her ftate of retrogradation. Her orb, or radiation, is feven
degrees before and after any of her afpedis. In the human ftrutfture (he
governs the reins, back-bone, feed and feminal veflels; alfo the neck, throat,
breafts, and expulfive faculty; and rules the light blue and white colours.
Venus is a feminine planet, temperately cold and moift, notfturnal, the
leifer fortune, author of mirth and conviviality, alluring to procreation
and to the propagation of the fpecies. When fhe afeends at a nativity,
ffie gives a nandfome, well-formed, but not tall, ftature; complexion fair
and lovely., bright fparkling eyes of adarkhazleor black, the face round,
regular, fmooth, and engaging; the hair light brown, hazle, or chefnut,
fhining
Original from
V f l D V Dl ID I I r I I D D A D
Digitized by G o t ' f i l e
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 19
fhiningand plentiful; the body regular and well-proportioned; and of a neat,
fmart, and airy, difpofition ; generally with dimples in the chteks or chin,
and often in both; the eye wandering, and naturally amorous ; in motion
light and nimble; in voice, foft, eafy, fweet, and agreeable, inclined to
amorous converfation, and early engagements in love. If well-dignified
at the time of birth, the native will be of a quiet, even, and friendly, dif­
pofition, naturally inclined to neatnefs, loving mirth and cheerfulnefs, and
delighting in mufic; amorous, and proneto venery, though truly virtuous,
if a woman; yet (lie will be given to jcaloufy, even without caufe. If
the planet be ill-dignified, then will the native be riotous, profligate,
abandoned to evil company and lewd women, regardlefs of reputation or
character; a frequenter of taverns, night-houfes, and all places of ill-
fame ; delighting in all the incitements to incefluous and adulterous prac­
tices; in principle a mere atheift, wholly given up to the brutal paf-
fions of unbridled and uncultivated nature. If Venus be oriental at the
time, theflature will be tall, upright, and ftraight; but, if occidental, fiiorc
and (looping, though comely and well-favoured. If (he be fignificator
in a journey, and well-dignified, (lie portends much mirth, pleafure, and
fuccefs, and promifes fafety and good fortune by the way.
Difeafesunder V
e
n
u
s
. All diforders of the belly and womb, fuffopa-
tion, palpitation, heart-burn, diflocation, priapifm, impotency, hernias,
diabetes, all ftages of the venereal complaint, and all diforders of the ge­
nitals, kidneys, reins, navel, back, and loins.
Herbs and plants. Ale-hoof, alder-tree, apple-tree, (linking arach,
alkakengi, archangel, beans, burdock, bugle, ladies’ bed-draw, bilhop’s-
weed, blights, chickweed, chick-peafe, clary, cock’s head, cowflips,dailies,
devil’s bit, elder, eringo, featherfew, figwort, filapendula, fox-gloves,
gromwell, groundfell, kidneywort, lady’s mantle, mallows, herb Mercury,
mint, motherwort, mugwort, parfnip, penny-royal, periwinkle, primrofe,
ragwort, rofes, fow-thidles, fpinach, tanfey, teafels, violets, vervain,
maiden-hair, coriander, meliot, daffodil, done-parlley, fanders, fatyrion,
wild thyme, mujfk, the fig-tree, pomegranate, the Cyprus, fweet-apple
tree, peach, myrtle, walnut-tree, almond-tree, apricots, the turpentine-
tree, ambergreafe, gum, laudanum, frankincenfe, and all fweet odori­
ferous plants, as the lily, rofe, &c. In gathering, the fame rule is to
be obferved as with the other planets.
Animals under V
e
n
u
s
. All fuch as are of a hot and amorous nature, as
the deg, coney, bull, (heep, goat, calf, panther, and hart. Among fillies,
the pilchard, gilthead, whiting, crab, dolphin, and tithymallus. And,
among birds, the fwan, water-wagtail, fwallow, pelican, nightingale.
No. 6. C c pigeon.
Digitized by Goosle Original from
M P / l / v n o ^ DI I DI ir * 1 m n
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
pigeon, fparrow, turtle-dove, (lock-dove, crow, eagle, burgander, par­
tridge, thrufh, blackbird, pye, wren, &c.
Stones and metals. The beryl, chryfolite, emerald, fapphire, cornelian,
marble, greenjafper, setites, the lazuli, coral, and alabafter; alfo copper,
brafs, and filver. She governs the light blue, and white, colour.
Weather and winds. She denotes gentle (howers in winter, and tempe­
rate heat in fummer; and (he rules the fouth wind.
Signs and triplicity.Of the celeftial figns (he hath for her houfes
Taurus and Libra. She rules over the earthy triplicity by day, viz. Tau­
rus, Virgo, and Capricorn, She is friendly with Jupiter, Mars, Mercury,
and the Sun and Moon ; but is at enmity with Saturn. She prefides
over Friday, and Monday night.
Tears. Her greated year is one hundred and fifty-one j her great year
is eighty-two ; her mean year is forty-five; and her leaf! year is fifteen.
M E R C U R Y ? .
Next to Venus, and within the orbits of all the other planets, is Mercury,
and of courfe the neared of them all to the central fun. He completes
his revolution, ortraverfes through the twelve figns of the zodiac, in eigh-
ty-feven days and twenty-three hours of our time nearly ; which is the
length of his year. But being feldom feen, on account of his proximity
to the fun, and having no fpots vifible on his furface or difk, the time of
his rotation upon his own axis, and the length of his days and nights, are
as yet unknown to us. His didance from the fun is computed to be thir­
ty-two millions of miles, and his diameter two-thoufand fix hundred.
He moves round the fun at the rate of ninety-five thoufand miles every
hour ; and receives from that luminary a proportion of light and heat al-
mod feven times as great as that of the earth. At the times he becomes
vifible, he appears of a bright filver colour, though generally faint and
dufkifh to the naked eye. His mean motion is fifty-nine minutes and
eight feconds, and fometimes fixty minutes; and his diurnal motion is
mod times one hundred minutes a day. His greated latitude, both north
and fouth, is three degrees thirty-three minutes. His exaltation is in
fifteen degrees of Virgo; his detriment in Sagittarius and Pifces, and
his fall in fifteen degrees of Pifces. He is retrograde twenty-four days ;
and is dationary one day before and one day after retrogradation. His
orb or radiation is feven degrees before and after any afpedt. He prefides
over Wednefday, and Saturday n ig h t; and governs the brain, tongue,
hands, feet, and intelledtual faculty, of man.
Mercury
Digitized by Google Original from
M P l / i / Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
I l l
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
Mercury is the lead of all the planets, in nature cold, dry, and melan­
choly ; but author of the mod pointed wit, ingenuity, and invention.
He is occasionally both mafeuline and feminine; and lucky or unlucky,
as his poSition in the heavens may happen to be. When he is in conjunc­
tion with a malculine planet, he is mafeuline ; when with a feminine pla­
net, feminine; good and fortunate when joined with the fortunes, but
evil and mifehievous when in conjunilion with malevolent afpe&s. When
he governs a nativity, he renders up a tall, Straight, thin, fparc, body,
narrow face, and deep forehead ; long Straight nofe, eyes neither black
nor grey ; thin lips and chin, with but little beard; brown complexion,
and hazel or chcfnut coloured hair ; the arms, hands, and fingers, long
and Slender; and thighs, legs, and feet, the fame. If orientally pofited,
the Stature will be Shorter, with fandy hair, and fanguine complexion,
fomewhat fun-burnt; the limbs and joints large and well fet, with fmall
grey eyes. But, if occidental, the complexion will be quite fallow, lank
body, fmall flender limbs, hollow eyes, of a red cad, and of a dry constitu­
tion. If Mercury be well dignified at the nativity, the perfon will inherit
a Strong fubtil imagination, and retentive memory; likely to become an ex­
cellent orator and logician, arguing with much eloquence of fpeech, and
with Strongpowers of perfuafion. Is generally given to the attainment ofall
kinds of learning ; an encourager of the liberal arts ; of a Slurp, witty,
and pleafant, converfation; of an unwearied fancy, and curious in the
fearch of all natural and occult knowledge: with an inclination to travel
or trade into foreign countries. If brought up in the mercantile line,
will be ambitious of excelling in his merchandize, and will moil times
prove fuccefsful in obtaining wealth. But, be the planet ill-dignified,
then the native will betray a difpofition to Slander, and abufe the charac­
ter of every one without distinction ; he will be a boaSter, a flatterer, a
fycophant, a bufy-body, a tale-bearer, given to propagate idle tales and
falfe Stories ; pretending to all kinds of knowledge, though a mere ideot
in his intellectual faculty, and incapable of acquiring any folid or fub-
Slantial learning ; apt to boatt of great honeSty, yet very much addicted
to mean and petty thievery.
Dtfeafesunder M
e
r
c
u
r
y
.. All diforders of the brain, vertigoes, mad-
nefs, defects of the memory, convulsions, aSthmas, imperfections of the
tongue, hoarfenefs, coughs. Shuffling in the nofe. Stoppages in the head,,
dumbnefs, and whatever impairs the intellectual faculty; alfogout in the
hands and feet. In conceptions he governs the Sixth month.
Herds and plants. Calamint, carrots, carraways, champignon, ,dill,
fern, fennel, hogs-fennel, germander, hoarhound, hazel-nut, liquorice,
fweet marjoram, mulberry-tree, oats* parlley, pellitory. of the wall.
i famphire.
Original from
M P / i S Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
X22 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
famphire, favory, fmallage, Touthern-wood, trefoil, valerian, honey-fuc-
klc, annas, columbine, juniper-tree, piony, the herb Mercury, lugwort,
dragon-wort, cubebs, vervain, hiera, treacle, and diombra wallnuts. In
gathering, the fame rules are to be obferved as with the other planets.
Stones and metals. The emerald, agate, red marble, topaz, mill-ftone,
marcafite, and fuch as are of divers colours. Alfo, quickfilver, block-
tin, and filver marcafite.
Animals. The dog, and all fagacious animals, and fuch as do not fly
the dominion of man ; the ape, fox, weazle, hart, hyena, mule, hare,
civet-cat, fquirrel, fpider, pifmire, ferpent, adder, &c. Among fifties,
the trochius, the fox-filh, the mullet, the pourcontrcl, and the fork-
fifli. And among birds, the linnet, parrot, popinian, fwallow, martin,
pye, and bulfinch.
Weather and winds. He ufually caufes rain, hail-ftones, thunder,
lightning, &c. according to the nature of the planet he happens to be
in configuration with. He delights in the northern quarter of the hea­
vens, and produces fuch winds as are fignified by the planet to which he
applies in afped.
Signs and triplicity.He hath for his houfes the celeftial figns Gemini
and Virgo; and he rules the airy triplicity by night, namely, Gemini,
Libra, and Aquaries.
Regions. Flanders, Greece, Egypt, and the Eaft and Weft Indies.
Tears. His greateft year is four hundred and fifty; his great is feven-
ty-fix; his mean year is forty-eight; and his leaft year is twenty.
S O L o .
Sol, or the Sun, is an immenfe globe or body of fire, placed in the
common centre, or rather in the lower focus, of the orbits of all the
planets and comets; and turns round his axis in twenty-five days and fix
hours, as is evident by the motion of the fpots vifible on his furface. His
diameter is computed to be feven hundred and fixty-three thoufand miles ;
and, by the various attra<ftions of the circumvolving planets, he is agi­
tated by a fmall motion round the centre of gravity of the fyftem. He
pafles through the twelve figns of the zodiac in three hundred and fixty-
nve days, five hours, forty-eight minutes, and fifty-feven ieconds, which
forms the tropical or folar year, by which ftandardall our periods of tim*
-are meafured. His mean motion is fifty-nine minutes and eight feconds,
but
Original from
MCI ht V r s D IS n i l D I li-~ I i n n * n w
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 123
but his fwift or diurnal motion is fixty minutes, and fometimes fixty-one
minutes fix feconds. He conftantly moves in the ecliptic, and is there­
fore void of latitude; and, for the fame reafon, is never ftationary or retro­
grade. His exaltation is in nineteen degrees of Aries ; his detriment in
Aquaries; and his fall in nineteen degrees of Libra. His orb or radiation
is fifteen degrees before and after all his afpefts. In man, he governs the
heart back, arteries, the right eye of the male, and left of the female ;
and the retentive faculty. He prefides over Sunday, and Wednefday night.
He is friendly with Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon;
but is conftantly at variance with Saturn.
The Sun is in nature mafculine, diurnal, hot, and dry, but more tem­
perate than Mars; and, if well dignified, is always found equivalent to one
■of the fortunes. When he prefides at a birth, the native is generally of
a large, boney, ftrong, body, of a fallow fun-burnt complexion, large
high forehead, with light or fandy curling hair, but inclined to be foon
bald ; a fine, full, piercing, hazel eye; and all the limbs ftraight and well
proportioned. If he is well dignified, the native will be of a noble,
magnanimous, and generous, difpofition ; high-minded, but very humane;
of a large and benevolent heart, affable, and courteous; in friendfhip,
faithful and fincere ; in promifes, flow, but punctual. Thefolar man is
not of many words ; but, when he lpeaks, it is with confidence, and to
the purpofe ; he is ufually thoughtful, fecret, and referved ; his deport­
ment is ftately and majeftic ; a lover of fumptuoufnefs and magnificence ;
and poffeffes a mind far fuperior to any fordid, bafe, or dilhonourable,
pra&ices. If the fun be ill-dignified, then will the native be born of
a mean and loquacious difpofition ; proud and arrogant; difdaining all
his inferiors, and a fycophant to his l'uperiors ; of (hallow underftand-
ing, and imperfect judgm ent; reftlefs, troublefome, and domineering; of
no gravity in words, or fobernefs in actions ; prone to mifchievoufnefs,
aufterity, uncharitablenefs, cruelty, and ill nature.
Difeafesof the Sun.All palpitations and trembling of the heart, faint­
ing and fwooning, weaknels of fight, violent fevers, choler, diforders of
the brain, tympanies, cramps, foul breath, all diforders of the mouth
and throat, catarrhs, defluxions, and king’s evil. In conception, he pre­
fides over the fourth month.
Herbs and plants. Angelica, avens, afli-tree, balm, one-blade, lo-
vage, burnet, butter-bur, camomile, celandine, centaury, eyebright,
fig-tree, St. John's wort, marigolds, mifletoe, piony, Peter’s wort, pim­
pernel, raifins, rofa folis, rofemary, rue, faffron, tormcntil, turnfole.
No. 6. D d vipers-
Digitized by ( j O O ^ j l C
Original from
Mcwir v n o t ' D i i m 1
r 1i d d a d v
j>24 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
vipcrs-buglofs, wallnut-trec, cloves, mace, nutmegs, fcabions, forrel,
wood-forrel, borrage, gentian, ivy, lavender, bay-tree, myrtle, olive-
tree, mints, date-tree, oranges, citrons, thyme, vine, zedoary, myrrh,
frankincenfe, aloes, lapis calaminaris, lemon-tree, mulk, fvveet marjo­
ram, ginger, vervain, cinquefoil, barley, and pepper-honey. In gather­
ing thefe herbs, the cuftotn has been to do it in the fun’s proper hour,
which may be found by the table calculated for that purpofe, in this
work, when he is in an angle, well fortified etfentially, and no way im­
peded j and let the moon apply to him by trine or lextile.
Stones and metals. iEtites, the Hone called the eye of the fun, becaufe
it is like the apple of the eye in form, the carbuncle, chryl'olite, the Hone
called Iris, the heliotropion, hyacinth, topaz, pyroyphylus, pantaurus,
pantherus or pantochras, the ruby, and diamond. Alfq pure gold, and
all yellow metals.
Animals. The fun rules all ftately, bold, ftrong, furious, and invin­
cible, animals, as the lion, tyger, leopard, hyena, crocodile, wolf, ram,
boar, bull, horfe, and baboon. Among filhes, he rules the fea-calf,
whofe nature is to refill lightning $ all Ihell-filh, the llar-filh for its re­
markable heat, and the filhes called ftrombi. Among birds, the eagle,
phcenix, fwan, cock, hawk, buzzard, lark, and nightingale.
Weather and winds. He produces weather according to the proper fca-
fon of the year; in the fpring, warm and gentle Ihowers; in fummer,
if in afpedl with Mars, extremity of heat ; in autumn, fogs and mills ;
and, in winter, fmall drizzling rain. He delights in the eallern part of
the heavens, and brings eallern winds.
Signs and triplicity.— Of the celellial figns, he has only Leo for his
houfe. She rules the fiery triplicity by day, viz. Aries, Leo, and Sagit­
tarius.
Regions. He rules the fourth climate, Italy, Bohemia, Sicilia, Chal­
dea, the Roman Empire, and North and South America.
Tears. His greateft year is one thoufand fix hundred and forty j but
others fay, only four hundred and fixty-one j his great year is one hun­
dred and twenty; his mean year is fixty-nine and his lead: is nineteen.
The DRAGON’S HEAD a , and DRAGON’S TAIL e .
The Head of the Dragon is mafculine, partaking of the nature both
• f Jupiter and Venus j but the Dragon’s Tail is feminine, and of a di­
rect
Digitized by Google Original from
MP\/ii v n o k ' D iim ir i i b b a b v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 125
reft opposite quality to the head. Thefe are neither figns nor constella­
tions, but are only the nodes or points wherein the ecliptic is interfered
by the orbits of the planets, and particularly by that of the moon ; making
with it angles of five degrees and eighteen minutes. One of thefe points
looks northward, the moon beginning then to have northern latitude ;
and the other points fouthward, where She commences her latitude fouth.
But it mull be obferved, that thefe points do not always abide in one place,
but have a motion of their own in the zodiac, and retrograde-wife, three
minutes and eleven feconds per day ; completing their circle in eigh­
teen years and two hundred and twenty-five days; fo that the moon can
be but twice in the ecliptic during her monthly period ; but at all other
times She will have a latitude or declination from the ecliptic. The head
of the Dragon is considered of a benevolent nature, and almoSt equivalent
to one of the Fortunes ; and, when in afpeft with evil planets, is found
to lefl’
en their malevolent effefts in a very great degree. But the Dragon’s
Tail I have always found of an evil and unhappy tendency, not only add­
ing to the malevolence of unfortunate afpefts, when joined with them;
but leSTening confiderably the beneficial influences of the Fortunes, and
other good afpefts, whenever found in conjunction with them.
Should the reader be defirous of more particular information on the pla­
netary fyStem, I beg leave to recommend to his attentive perufal the.
aftronomical works of the ingenious Mr. Fergufon. And, in order to
bring all the foregoing particulars, concerning the periods, distances,
bulks, &c. of the planets, into one point of view, I fubjoin his follovv--
ing comprehensive Table.
*
}
I
a t a b l e
Digitized by Goode Original from
M H A S V n D f Dl I P I I r I I D D
tsi
ON
*
A TABLE of the P eriods, R evolutions, M a g n i t u d e s , &c. of the P l a n e t s ,
As formerly computed by Aftronomers.— For their nearly true Pittances from the S un, as determined from
Obfervations of the Tranfitof Venus, in the Year 1761.
1
S u n and
P lanets.
A nnual pe­
riod round
the S un.
D iu rn al ro ­
tation on its
A x is. •
D iam e­
ter in
E nglifh
m iles.
M ean
diam . as
feen from
the S un.
M ean dif-
tance from
the Sun in
E nglifh m iles.
E x cen tri-
city o f its
O rb it in
m iles.
A xis
inclin­
ed to
O rb it.
Su n
viercury
V enus
liarth
M oon
M ars
lupiter
Saturn
23d. 6h.
U n know n.
24d. 8h.
id . oh.
29d. I2 jh .
24h. 40m .
9h. 56m .
U nknow n.
763000
2600
79C6
7970
2180
4 4 4 4
81000
67000
80 o'
U n k n .
7 5 ° o'
23° 29
2° 10
0° o'
o® o '
U n k n .
87d 23h
224d iyh
363d 6h
363d 6h
686d 23b
4332d 1ah
to 7 5 9 d 7 h
20"
30"
21"
6"
1"
3 7 "
>6"
31.000. 000
c9,000,000
82.000.000
82.000.000
125.000. 000
426.000. 000
780.000. 000
6.720.000
413,000
1.377.000
13,000
11.439.000
20.352.000
42.735.000
O rb it
inclin.
to E -
cliptic.
Place o f its
A phelion.
P lace o f
its A f-
cending
N o d e .
6® 54;
3® 20
0® o'
5® 18'
1® 52'
1® 20'
2® 3° '
t 130 8'
ss 4 ° 20'
k f 8® 1'
8 14 *4 3 '
n *3 ° 5 9 *
V ariable.
8 I 7 ®i7 '
23 7 ° 2 9 '
23 2 I® I3 '
ttjj 0® 32'
«Q> 9® 10'
t 2 7 ® 50
S u n and
P lanets.
P ropor
tion of
L ig h t
and
H eat.
P ropor
tional
q u an ­
tity o f
M atter
H o u r­
ly m o ­
tion in
its O r­
bit.
H our­
ly m o­
tion o f
its E -
quator
S quare m iles in
furface.
C ubic m iles in folidity. W o u ld fall to
the S un in
S u n
M ercu ry
450I0
6i
227500
U n k n . £5000
3818
U nkn.
1,828,911,000,000
21,236,800
23 2>5 7 7 >I , S>I 3 7 i000>000
9 i , 9 5 >5 3 4 >5 ° °
days hrs.
*5 >3
’ S
^•6
V enus U nkn. 69000 43 691,361,300 2 58,507,832,200 3 9 17
Ji
E arth I 1 58000 1042 199,859,860 265,404,598,08° 64 t o u £S
M oon 1 = To 2200 9 i 14,898,750 5,408,246,000 64 10
M ars 4
U n k n . 47000 5 5 6 62,038,240 4 5 »9 6 9 ,3 3 5 >84 ° 121 O
fig
Ju p iter T
Iff 220 25OOO 25920 20,603,970,000 ?78,153,595,000,000 290 O - £
S aturn 1
^75 9 4
18000 U nkn. 14,102,562,000 155,128,182,000,000 767 O
£ e l _ . .
§ P eriods round
3 5 I Jupiter.
P ro p o r
tio n of
diam e­
ters.
P ro p o r
tion of
B ulk.
P ro . o f
G ra v ity
on the
furface.
P ro p o r
tion of|
D en fi- |
ty .
10000 877650 2 4 2 >i
3 4 t 3
I
TT U n k n . U n k n .
i ° 3 i 1 U n k n . U n k n .
io 4 i I I lo o
2 8 1 1
T 7
5 t o V «23 *
5 « *
1
T U n k n . U n k n .
I 0 6 l y 1049 2 «9
8 7 8 5 8 6 »5
N o .
D. H. M.
1 18 36
3 »3 !S
7 3 5 9
i6 18 30
O“
“
p '
§1
t/> *
•
No.
P eriods round
S atu rn .
D. H. M.
1 21 19
2 17 40
4 ** 2 5
15 22 41
7 9 _ _ 7_ _ t? _
If the M o o n ’s p ro je c -1
tile force w ere deftroyed, fhe w ould fall to thej
earth in four days tw en ty -o n e hours.
-| ~
~
>
*
—
1
r
c
H
>
>
-*
O
2
o r A S T R O L O G Y. 129
twelve figtis being divided into four triplicities, the fourth column (hews
which of the planets, both night and day, govern each triplicity. For
inftance, oppofite to Aries, Leo, and Sagittary, arc the Sun and Jupiter ;
which imports, that the Sun governs by day, and Jupiter by night, in
that triplicity. Oppofite Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, are Venus and
the Moon, which (hews that Venus has dominion by day, and the Moon
by night, in that triplicity. Oppofite Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries*
are Saturn and Mercury, by which it appears that Saturn rules by day,
’and Mercury by night, in that triplicity. Oppofite Cancer, Scorpio, and
Pifces, (lands the planet Mars, who rules in that triplicity both night
and day. Inthe fifth, fixth, feventh, and eighth, columns, oppofite Aries,
(lands it 6. ? 14. &c. which imports that thefirftfix degrees of Aries are
the terms of Jupiter ; from fix degrees to fourteen,are the terms of Venus,
and fo on. In the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, columns, oppofite Aries, we
find <
? 10. o 20. ? 30. which (hews that the firft ten degrees of Aries are
the phafes of Mars; frorn ten to twenty degrees are the phafes of the Sun *
and from twenty to thirty the phafes of Venus. In the thirteenth co*
lumn, in a line with Aries, (lands Venus in detrim ent; which (hews that
Venus, being in Aries, is in a fign diredlly oppofite to one of her own
houfes, and is therefore faid to be in detriment. In the fourteenth column,
in the fame line with Aries, (lands Saturn in fall; which (hews that Sa­
turn, when he is in Aries, is oppofite to Libra, his houfe of exaltation,
and fo becomes unfortunate, and is hence faid to have his fall in that
flSn- ■ ,
The effe&s produced by the planets under thefe fituations, are as fol­
low : If the planet, which is principal fignificator, be pofited in his own
houfe, in any fcheme or calculation whatever, it indicates profperity and
fuccefs to the perfon fignified, to the bufinefs in hand, or to whatever
elfe may be the fubjedi of enquiry. If a planet be in his exaltation, it
denotes a perfon of inajeflic carriage, and lofty difpofition, high minded,
auftere, and proud. If a planet be in his triplicity, the perfon will be
profperous and fortunate in acquiring the goods of this life ; no matter
whether well or ill descended, or born rich or poor, his condition and
circumftances will notwithftanding be promifing and good. If a planet be
in his terms, it betokens a perfon to participate rather in the nature and
quality of the planet, than in the wealth, power, and dignity, indicated
thereby. It a planet be in his phafes, and no otherwife fortified, though
fignificator, it declares the perfon or thing fignified to be in great dif-
trefs, danger, or anxiety. And thus in all cafes, judgment is to be given,
good or bad, according to the (Irength, ability, or imperfediion, of the
fignificator.
TABLE
Digitized by Goi.>sle Original from
k i p a i v n p r di i p 1 1r 1 1P D a d v
1 3o A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
TABLE (hewing the FORTH'UDES and DEBILITIES
of the P l a n e t s .
E s s e n t i a l D i g n i t i e s .
A Planet in his own houfe,
or mutual reception by
houfe, (hall havedignities 5
In exaltation, or reception by
exaltation 4
In triplicity 3
In terms 2
In decant or phafis 1
A c c i d e n t a l F o r t i t u d e s .
In medium coeli or afcendant 5
In the 7th, 4th, or n th , houfe 4
In the 2d or 5th houfe —
— 3
In the 9th houfe ----- 2
In the 3d houfe 1
Direct — ------------ — --------------4
In hayz--------------....._________
_ n
Swift in motion ______ „____2
h at or 2o
riental — ---------- 2
$ $ or the i>occidental • --------- 2
Free from combuftion •- .5
In cazimi or in the heart of o ---- .5
Befieged by at and ? • - 5
Partial conjunction of theQ'----- 4
In partial conjunction with
at or f . - 5
In partial trine of at or
. - In partial fextile of at or ? - 3
In conjunction with Cor Leonis,
in 25 degrees of si ------ 6
In conjunction with Spica Virgi-
nis, in 18 degrees of «
o
= 5
In the terms of a; or ? - 1
D e b i l i t i e s .
In detriment 5
In fall 4
Peregrine 5
A c c i d e n t a l D e b i l i t i e s .
In the 12th houfe, ____ _ 5
In the 8th or 6th houfe -
Retrograde - — >5
Slow in motion -
—------------- 2
h at or $occidental ------------ -
? or 8 oriental —------- ■
I) decreafing in light------------ -—
Combuftion of the ----------------
Under the Sun’s beams-----— -—
Befieged by b a
nd * — -------
Partial conjunction of --------
Partial conjunction with or —
Partial oppofition of or
Partial quartile of bo
r ----
In conjunction with Caput Al­
gol, in 21 degrees of » or
within 5 degrees --------- — 5
In the term of bo
r -----
t a b l :
Digitized by Go*, gle Original from
m p u i v n c v d i i d 1 1r i i d d a d v
<
N
<
N
N
vo
^
*
0
t
}-
vo
CO
TABLE of the FORTITUDES and DEBILITIES of thePARTof
FORTUNE.
D i g n i t i e s .
The Part of Fortune in « or x 5
In & f si 23—----------------------- 4
In n ------------- —------ —-----------3
In ----------------------------------- -2
In the afcendant or medium cceli 5
In the 7th, 4th, or 11th, houfes 4
In the 2d or 5th houfe-------------3
In the 9th houfe ------------------- 2
In the 3d houfe ------- 1
In conjunction of V or ? -----
In trine of it or $------------------- 4
In Textile of it or ? ----------------- 3
In conjunction of the 8--------------
In conjunction of Regulus in 23
degrees of Leo ______ _
____ - 6
In conjunction of Spica Virginis
in 19 degrees of ^ ------- 5
Not co m b u ft------------- 5
The ]> in conjunction or oppofiti
ded two days, viz. one day before, a
The s in quartile of the O
and after.'
D e b i l i t i e s .
In yp ss --------------------------- 5
In the 12th h o u fe--------------- _ 5
In the 6th houfe---------------- —4
In the 8th houfe -----------■
- ■
——4
In conjunction of J? or -------- 5
In conjunction of 8 _________ 3
In oppofition of hor 4
In quartile of bo
r £ -3
In terms of h or ------------------2
In conjunction of Caput Algol
in 21 degrees of # __________ 4
C om buft-------------------------- 5
of the o h or the s is impe-
one day after.
$ is impeded twelve hours before
To arrive at a proper degree of correCtnefs in our refearches into futuri­
ty, we muft be well verfed in the true nature and ftrength of the planets’
fortitudes and debilities, fo as to give them their due weight in the
fcale of nature, according to the experienced rules of this fcience, and
no further. For the more a man endeavours to ftrain a judgment be­
yond the natural tendency of the planets, and the more he fwerves from
truth in putting down their ftrength or debility, the more he augments
his error, and betrays his inexperience. To avoid this, let the ftudent
acquaint himfelf perfectly with thefe tables j and in practice, whenever he
has occafion to colleCt the fortitudes and debilities either of the planets or
part of fortune, let him fubtraClthe lefs number from the greater, and the
remainder will be the planet’s excefs of fuperiority, or debility; accord­
ing to which will be its operation upon the lubjeCt of his inveftigation.
No. 7. F f O f
Original from
mc\ai di im 1r i i
Digitized by Got. sle
v
ju
u
y
it:-u
iy
iiiz
t:u
/
i
i
l
l
|
j
:
/
/
v
v
w
v
v
.
i
i
d
u
i
i
u
ubL.ui
y/ot.L
eb
b
_
u
b
t;-w
-p
u
-y
u
u
y
it:
a n i l l u s t r a t i o n
Of the PLANETARY HOUSES, and their EFFECTS;
To givea m
ore fubftantial ideaof thenatureandarrangem
ent of the
tw
elve houfesof theplanets, w
efhall confider them according to the
followingdiagram:
V
In this fcheme Cancer and Leo have afligned unto them the two
great luminaries, Sol and Luna; becaufe they are agreeable to each other
in nature; for the Sun, being naturally hot and dry, (hews his effedts more
forcibly when pofited in Leo than he doth in either Aries or Sagittarius.
And the Moon, for the fame reafon, hath Cancer allotted to her govern­
ment, becaufe the is cold and moift, and of the nature of this fign; and
being the firft of the watery triplicity, and next to the Sun’s houfe, the
receives her light from him; and all things are generated by their joint-
influence.
Saturn is naturally cold, and therefore an enemy to heat; and, being the
higheft and moft remote from the luminaries of all the other planets,
has for his manfton the tigns Capricorn and Aquaries; which are the
oppofite figns to Leo and Cancer, and are confequently cold and moift.
Saturn is accounted the moft obnoxious and moft malevolent of all the
planets, becaufe he oppofes the two great luminaries, wljich are the
fountains of life, light, and nutrition.
Jupiter
V
Digitized by Goc;gle Original from
MCIA/ V n B k ' Dl ID I I T I I Q D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . *33
Jupiter is placed under Saturn, and has the two figns that go before .
and after Capricorn and Aquaries allotted for his houfes, namely, Sagit-
tary and Pifces, which are in trine to the houfes of the two luminaries;
Pifces, his night-houfe, is in trine to Cancer, the houfe of the nodturnal
luminary, and Sagittary, his day-houfe, in trine to Leo, the houfe of the
diurnal luminary. Jupiter being naturally temperate, and having thefe
amicable afpedts, is deemed the moll benevolent of all the planets to
mankind, and the greaterfortune.
Mars next in order follows Jupiter, being placed under him ; and
therefore thofe fjgns that go before and after the houfes of Jupiter are
allotted to Mars, viz. Scorpio and Aries, which are in quartile to the
houfes of the Sun and Moon, as Aries his day-houfe is to Cancer, and
Scorpio his night-houfe is to Leo. And, fince a quartile is found to be
an afpedt of enmity, he is accounted malignant and unfortunate in an
inferior degree to Saturn, who beholds the luminaries with an oppofition,
therefore he is called the leff'erinfortune.
Venus, a more temperate planet, hath appointed unto her thofe houfes
that go before the houfes of Mars, viz. Libra and Taurus, which are in
a fextile to the houfes of the two luminaries, and form an afpedt of love
and amity; but, becaufe a fextile is not fo flrong and perfedt an afpedt as
a trine, lhe is accounted the lefferfortune.
Mercury being fituated within the orbits of all the other planets, has the
figns allotted him which precede the two houfes of the great luminaries,
namely, Gemini and Virgo; and, becaufe Mercury is never diftant from the
Sun above one fign, he naturally inclines neither to good nor evil, but
participates either in the good or evil influences of whatever planet he is
joined with in afpedt.
The EXALTATIONS and FALLS of the PLA N ETS.
The Sun, which is the fountain of life, takes his exaltation in nine­
teen degrees of Aries, becaufe he is then in the higheft northern point
cf the ecliptic, making all things to fpring and flourish, and producing
fine warm weather, and length of days. And he is faid to have his fall
in Libra, becaufe it is the oppolite fign in the heavens to Aries, in which
the Sun declines to the utmoft louthern point, and occafions fhortnefs
of days, and cold winterly blalls, dellructive to the fruits of the earth.
Now the Moon, being co-partner and co-temporary with the Sun, and
receiving all her light from him, which enables her to be vifible to us firIt
in Taurus, and, becaufe it is the firft: fign wherein fhe has a triplicity, her
exaltation takes place in Taurus, wherein fhe increafes in light and mo­
tion.
Digitized by Go*, gle Original from
MP1A1 v n o t ' Dl IPI \r I I R D A D V
J34 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
tion. But Scorpio being the fign oppofite to Taurus, in which the de-
creafes in light, it is hence allotted for her fall, being the fign immedi­
ately after Libra, and oppofite to Aries, the houfe of the Sun’s exaltation,
Saturn, the moft remote planet, is the author of cold, as the Sun is of
heat, and is therefore exalted in that fign wherein heat is diminished
and cold increafed, viz. Libra; and his fall takes place in that fign where
cold is diminifhed and heat increafed, viz. Aries; which are quite con­
trary in nature to the Sun.
Jupiter is exalted in Cancer, and has his fall in Capricorn; for Jupiter
delights in the northern part of the heavens, where he ftirs up northern
winds, which increafe fertility and vegetation; and, his greateil declina­
tion northwards being in Cancer, he is therein exalted. For the con­
trary reafon he has his fall in Capricorn.
Mars is naturally hot and dry; and becaufe his influence and effe&s
are raoft powerful in Capricorn, a fouthern fign, where the Sun is gene­
rally hotteft about noon, he is for this realon exalted therein; and he
takes his fall in Cancer, quite contrary to the nature of Jupiter; for
Mars is hot and violent, and Jupiter cold and temperate.
Venus is naturally moift, efpecially in Pifces, in which fign the fpring
is moiftened and forwarded in the increafe and ftrength of nature; and
therefore fhe has the fign Pifces for her exaltation ; and, as Venus is the
mother of generation and procreation, ihe has het fall in Virgo, in the
autumn, when all things wither and fade.
Mercury, becaufe he is dry, and contrary in nature to Venus, is ex­
alted in Virgo, and has his fall appointed him in Pifces. Virgo is both
his houfe and joy.
The T R IP L IC IT IE S of the P L A N E T S .
A Triplicity means three figns of the Zodiac, of one and the fame
nature, making a perfect triangle; and of thefe triplicities among the
figns there are four, anfwering to the four elements: viz. the fiery tri­
plicity, which confifts of Aries, Leo, and Sagittary; the airy triplicity,
confifting of Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries; the watery triplicity, con-
t ining Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces; and the earthy triplicity, which
includes Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn. Thefe figns apply to each other
in a trine, in the fame manner as a planet in a fiery fign applies to another
planet in a fiery fign (if in the fame number of degrees) in a trine; and
2 thus
Original from
M CIM v / ^ D i / n i m i i f* i i n n a d v
Digitized by Got. gle
O F A S T R O L O G Y , 135
thus a planet in an airy fign beholds another planet in an airy fign with
a trine; and fo the watery and earihy figns apply in the fame manner;
and each of thefe trine afpedts confifts of one hundred and twenty degrees.
The Sun and Jupiter have dominion over the fiery triplicity; the Sun
by day, and Jupiter by night. The Sun by day, becaufe he is hot and
fiery, and of the nature of thefe figns; and Jupiter by night, becaufe he
is temperate, and moderates the extremity of heat. This is called the
eaftern triplicity.
Saturn and Mercury have dominion over the airy triplicity, which is
weftern; Mercury by night, and Saturn by day. But as Libra is the
exaltation of Saturn, and Aquiries the houfe and Jign wherein he has moil
joy; and as Gemini is only the houfe of M ercury; it follows that Sa­
turn has the principal government in this triplicity.
Mars both night and day governs the watery triplicity, which is nor­
thern; and it feems that Mars was appointed to this triplicity to tem­
per and abate his violent heat; for we find he is more powerful in his
malignant effects in the fign Leo than he is in Cancer; therefore he has
his fall appointed him in Cancer, though he is peregrine in Leo.
Venus and the Moon bear rule over the earthy triplicity, which is fe­
minine and fouthern, cold and moift, producing fouth-eafl winds, and
cold moift air; hence this triplicity is afiigned to the care of feminine
planets.
The T E R M S of the P L A N E T S .
A Term is a certain number of degrees, in each houfe or fign of the
Zodiac, wherein the planets Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, and Mercury,
have a certain priority; but the Sun and Moon have no terms. Thefe
degrees are called terms, ends, or bounds; for the planets have each their
proportions fo allotted therein, that at the end of a certain number of GI
degrees, the terms of one planet ceafe, and thofe of ahother begin.
For inftance, from the firft degree of Aries to the fixth, are the terms
of Jupiter; from the fixth to the fourteenth, are the terms of Venus;
and fo of all the reft. Ptolemy, Albumazer, and Bonatus, have all
fhewn that the greater years of the planets are difeovered by their feve-
ral terms or bounds through the Zodiac; which is done by finding what
number of degrees each of the planets have allotted them in each fign;
and then, by adding them together, the fum will be the number of each of
their great years, as will appear more obvioufly by the following example:
No. 7. G g TERMS.
Digitized by Got. gle Original from
mcim v n p i ' Di i m 1r 1 i r e a r v
*36 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
T
1*;
E R
u
M
*
S
.
s S
IntheSignV 4 6 5 8 7
2 7 6 8 7
4 6 6 7 7
25
3 7 6 7 7
- / a t
6
6
6
5
5
6
6
6
7
7
!«
cb 6 8 6 5 5
3
8 6 7
6
(*; 6 8 5 6 5
Y? 6 7 S 6 6
6 5 5 8 6
K 5 6 5 8 6
Great years 5 7 7 9 66 82 76
Thefe great years being added together, make juft three hundred and
fixty degrees, being the whole extent or circumference of the Zodiac.
The degrees are in this manner divided into terms, to lhew what pla­
net has moft dignities in a fign, whether by exaltation and houfe, tripli­
city and houfe; or houfe, exaltation, or triplicity, alone j and to that
planet which has two or more dignities, we affign the firft term, whe­
ther he be a fortune or an infortune. If an infortune has not two dig­
nities in a fign, he is placed laft, and the firft term is given either to the
lord of the exaltation, or to the lord of the triplicity, or to the lord
of the houfe, uniformly preferring that planet which has two dignities
to thofe that have only one. But an exception to this rule extends to the
figns Cancer and Leo; for Cancer being the oppofite fign to the exalta­
tion of Mars, which is in Capricorn, occafions the firft term of Cancer
to be afligned to Mars ; and, becaufe Leo is the oppofite fign to the houfe
and joy of Saturn, the firft term of Leo is for this reafon given to Sa­
turn. To the infortunes are allotted the laft degrees of all the figns, ex­
cepting thofe of Leo, which are given to Jupiter. The quantity of terms
are divided according to the following method ; when Jupiter and Ve­
nus have not two dignities in the fame fign, nor in the fecond, third, or
fourth, houfe, they have feven degrees allotted for their terms. Saturn
and Mars, becaufe they are infortunes, (except in their own houfes,) have
but five, and fometimes only four, three, or two, degrees each. Mercu­
ry, becaufe he is of a mixed nature, has ufually fix degrees allotted him ;
but, when any of the planets are eflentially dignified, they claim each one
degree more; as Venus in the firft term of Taurus has eight degrees, and
Saturn
Digitized by Gov ale Original from
k i p i m v n o r d i m i ir i i b b a r v
OF AS T ROL OGY. . 137
Saturn in the firft term of Aquaries claims fix. But, becaufe Venus has
eight degrees in Taurus, Saturn has only two, being very weak in Tau­
rus ; and again, in Sagittary, Jupiter is increafed one degree, becaufe he
is ftrong, and Mercury is diminilhed one degree, becaufe he is weak; fo
that Jupiter takes eight degrees, and leaves Mercury but five.
It is alfo necefiary to obferve, that a planet in his own term is ftrong;
and that, the more dignities he gains therein, the fironger will his influ­
ence be; for example, Jupiter in the firft term of Sagittary is ftronger
and more powerful than in the firft term of Aries, though they are
both equally his terms ; and the reafon of this is, becaufe the fign Sa­
gittary is both his houfe and triplicity, and Aries is his triplicity only,
wherefore he has the firft eight degrees of Sagittary for his term, and
only fix in Aries. Hence it becomes apparent, that, the nearer a planet is
in nature to the place of his term, the ftronger will his influence be
therein. Jupiter, being hot and moift, has but five degrees for his term
in Virgo, which is a cold and dry fign ; but in Gemini, which is hot
and moift, he has fix degrees, becaufe it agrees with his nature; and yet
in Cancer, which is cold and moift, he poflelLs feven degrees, although
it does not agree with his nature ; and the reafon is, Cancer is the houfe
of Jupiter’s exaltation, and therefore the greater term is allotted him.—
In like manner, if a planet that is cold and dry be pofited in a term of
the fame temperature, his coldnefs and drynefs will be greatly increafed
thereby, and he will operate the more powerfully in.his influences. The
fame rule holds good in refpeft to all the other qualities of the planets;
and it muft be remembered, that a planet is always increafed in ftrength
by being fituated in houfes or places of his own temperature and quality.
Th us a planet that is hot and dry lofes much of his natural vigour in a term
that is cold and moift; and a planet that is cold and moift lofes confi-
derably of its nature in a term that is hot and dry. And in like manner,
if a planet that is a fortune be pofited in a fortunate term, his beneficent
effedts are the more increafed, and he is fortified with greater power and
ftrength to operate upon whatever fubjedt he is the lignificator of. And
on the contrary, if an evil and malevolent planet be in an evil fign and term,
its effects will be thereby rendered ftill more mifehievous. And the lord
of a term when pofited in that term, be the fign what it may, has more
power therein than the lord of the fign, or than the planet that has the
fign for its exaltation. Again, if the lord of any term be pofited in his
term, and the lord of the lign be fituated in another fign in afpedl with
him, the lord of the term will have more power in the fign where he is
than the lord of the fign, and {hall be the principal lignificator; but, if
the lord of the term be pofited in his own term and fign alfo, then his
ftrength and energy will be ftill more confiderable. It may alfo be ob-
2 ferved,
Origirial from
M P A f V r * D I f Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
Digitized by G O O f i l C
138 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
ferved, that, when a planet is weak in a fign, his debility would be very
much lelTened Ihould he chance to be fituated in that part of the lign
wherein he has terms. Whenever a planet is pofited in a term and fign
both of his own nature, it is a very ftrong and fortunate afpeCt.
The P H A S E S of the P L A N E T S .
The planets’ Phafes confift of the twelve figns of the Zodiac, divided
each into three equal parts; fo that one phafis contains ten degrees, and
every fign three phafes. They are called phafes, becaufe they fignify or
reprefent the forms, natures, and inclinations, of the feveral planets ap­
propriated to them. A planet’s term divides a phafis; a phafis divides a
lign; a fign divides a tripiicity ; and a triplicity divides the whole Zodiac.
To afcertain the proper phafes of each planet, we begin with Mars,
in the equinoctial fign Aries, becaufe it is the houfe of this planet;
wherefore the firft ten degrees conftitute the phafis of M ars; the lecond
ten degrees are the phafis of the Sun ; and the third, which make up the
whole thirty degrees of Aries, conftitute the phafis of Venus. The
firft ten degrees of Taurus make the phafis of Mercury; the fecond ten
degrees are the phafis of the Moon; and the third ten conftitute the phafis
of Saturn. The firft ten degrees of Gemini make the phafis of Jupiter;
the fecond ten, the phafis of M ars; and fo on in the following order,
throughout the twelve figns of the Zodiac.
Mars hath the firft phafis in Aries, which is the phafis of ftrength,
magnanimity, and courage; of refolution, confidence, and intrepidity.
The Sun hath the fecond phafis in Aries, and this is the phafis of re­
nown, majefty, and m ight; of candour, gcnerofity, and noblenefs of foul;
and herein the Sun has his exaltation. Venus hath the third phafis in
Aries, which is the phafis of effeminacy, and wanton merriment; ofjoy,
fport, and play.
In Taurus, the firft phafis is attributed to Mercury, and it is the phafis
of mechanical arts, agriculture, and learning; of refined wit, logic, and
oratory. The Moon has the fecond phafis in Taurus, and it is the phafis
of power, ambition, and authority ; of violent force, compulfion, and ar­
bitrary fway. Saturn has the third phafis in Taurus, which is the phafis
of cruelty, oppreffion, and bondage; of poverty, fervitude, and menial
occupations.
Jupiter hath the firft phafis in Gemini; and this is the phafis of nume­
ration, algebra, and all figures ; of decyphering hieroglyphic characters,
writings,
Digitized by ( j O O C j l C
Original from
M C U / D I I D I I n I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 139
writings, and fculptures. Mars has the fecond phafis in Gemini: which
is the phafis of fludy, perfeverance, and labour; of trouble, grief, and
painful anxiety. The Sun has the third phafis in Gemini: and it is the
phafis of boldnefs, contempt, anddifdain; of indolence, forgetfulnefs,
and ill manners.
The firfi phafis in Cancer belongs to Venus : it is the phafis of a good
underflanding, mirth, and wit; of cheerfulnefs, complacency, and love.
The fccond phafis in Cancer belongs to Mercury: it is the phafis of
wealth, honour, and preferment; of fruitfulnels, fertility, and fuccefs in
bufinefs. The third phafis in Cancer belongs to the Moon; and it is
the phafis of fuccefs in arms, law, and oppoficion; of travelling, perfe­
verance, and flrength.
Saturn has the firfi: phafis in Leo: it is the phafis of violence, rage,
and tyranny; of luft, cruelty, and mifchievoulhefs. Jupiter has the le-
cond phafis in Leo: it is the phafis of difp-utation, contention, and ftrife;
of hofiility, violence, and battle. Mars hath the third phafis in Leo:
which is a phafis of efteem and friendfhip, of union in the public caufe,
and of fuccefs in arms.
The Sun has the firfi: phafis in Virgo: it is the phafis of riches, pro­
perty, and wealth; of induftry, improvement, and cultivation. Venus
hath the fecond phafis in Virgo: it is the phalis of avarice, covetouf-
nefs, and fordid gain; of meannefs, penurioufnefs, and parfimony.
Mercury has the third phafis in Virgo: and it is the phafis of advanced
age, infirmity, and weaknefs; of gradual decline, difiolution, and decay.
The Moon has the firfi phafis in Libra: it is the phafis of juflice,
mercy, and truth; of humanity, liberality, and benevolence. Saturn has
the fecond phafis in Libra: it is the phafis of advantage, emolument, and
gain; of watchfulnefs, labour, and fubtilty. Jupiter has the third pha­
fis in Libra: which is the phafis of lafcivioufnefs, luxury, and licenti-
oufnefs; of diflipation, drunkennefs, and depravity.
Mars has the firfi phafis in Scorpio: it is the phafis of violent flrife,
contention, and flaughter; of thieving, murdering, and robbing. The
Sun has the fecond phafis in Scorpio: it is a phafis of injuflice, deceit-
fulnefs, and envy; of difcord, malice, and detra&ion. Venus hath the
third phafis in Scorpio: and it is a phafis of lewdnefs, fornication, and
adultery; of flattery, fedudtion, and deceit.
Mercury poflefles the firfi phafis in Sagittary: it is a phafis of flrength,
valour, and intrepidity; of jollity, opennefs, and feflivity. The Moon
Wo. 7. H h has
Original from
MEIA/ DI IP I Ir I IDDADV
J4o A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
has the fecond phafis in Sagittary: it is the phafis of affliction, forrow,
and perturbation of mind; of internal woe, fufpicion, and miftruft. Sa­
turn has the third phafis in Sagittary: and it is the phafis of obftinacy,
obduratenefs, and tyranny; of wilfulnefs, mifchievoufnefs, and cruelty.
Jupiter has the ftrft phafis in Capricorn: it is the phafis of hofpita-
lity, benevolence, and honelty; of conviviality, merriment, and fport.
Mars hath the fecond phafis in Capricorn: it is the phafis of inordinate
.defires, of unbridled paffions, and intemperate lufts; of difcontentednefs,
peevifhnels, and difappointment. The Sun has the third phafis in Ca­
pricorn: and it is a phafis of exalted underftanding, manlinefs, and wif-
dom; of fobriety, integrity, and honour.
Venus hath the firft phafis in Aquaries: it is a phafis of continual
anxiety for gain, of laborious toil, and unwearied application; of difap­
pointment, misfortune, and lofs. Mercury has the fecond phafis in Aqua­
ries: it is the phafis of modefty, clemency, and good nature; of gen-
tlenefs, mildnefs, and complacency. The Moon hath the third phafis in
Aquaries: and it is the phafis of diflatisfaCtion, repining, and difcontent;
of jealoufy, ingratitude, and envy.
Saturn hath the firft phafis in Pifces: it is a phafis of thoughtfulnefs,
fedatenefs, and temperance; of fobriety, reputation, and fuccefs in bufi-
nefs. Jupiter hath the fecond phafis in Pifces: it is the phafis of aufte-
rity, haughtinefs, and ambition; of pride, vain-glory, and felf-conceit.
Mars hath the third and laft phaiis in Pifces: and it is the phafis of con-
cupifcence and luft; of debauchery, lewdnefs, and profligacy.
The advantage to be derived by a perfect knowledge of the planets’
phafes will hereafter appear in the judgment of a nativity; for, if the
afcendant on the cufp of any perfon’s nativity be found in thefe phafes,
then will the native’s natural difpofition, manners, occupation, and gene­
ral purfuits, be regulated by them, according to the ftrength or debility
of the other afpedts; for, if the lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, or
planet applying to the afcendant in afpe<ft, or beholding the lord of the
afcendant, or Moon, are both pofited in phafes of the fame nature, then
will their effects upon the native be moft powerful and efficacious.
The J O Y S of the P L A N E T S .
The planets are faid to be in their joys, when they are pofited in thofe
houf^s wherein they are moft ftrong and powerful; as,
2 The
Digitized by Goi gle Original from
MPUi/ v n o k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D R A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 141
The planet 1
?‘
s
o
s
>
f ~
t
"t
'y joyeth in
«
It may, perhaps, be enquired, why Saturn joyeth not in Capricorn, as
well as in Aquaries, fince both thefe figns are his houfes ? T he reafon
is, that in Aquaries he has both houfe and triplicity, and is therefore bet­
ter dignified, and more potent, in Aquaries than in Capricorn. So like-
wife Jupiter joyeth in Sagittary, and not in Pifces, becaufe in the former
fign he has both houfe and triplicity, but in the latter he has houfe
only. The fame obfervation extends to the other planets. The Moon,-
indeed, has no triplicity; but Ihe joyeth in Cancer, becaufe it is a fign
of her own quality and nature. Hence it appears that Saturn, though ftrong
and well dignified in Capricorn, is much ftrongcr, and has more digni­
ties, in Aquaries; Jupiter alfo» has ftrong influences when polked in
Pifces, but much ftronger in Sagittary; Mars is potent in Aries, but
infinitely more fo in Scorpio; Venus has great operation in Libra, but
in Taurus her effects are more powerful; and Mercury, for the fame
caufe, operates much more forcibly in Virgo than he does in the fign*
Gemini. The efficacy of thefe rules having been proved by repeated
experience, it is neceflary for every ftudent to confider them with at­
tention.
— *
The A N T I S C I O N S of the P L A N E T S .
A planet’s Antifcion is a certain virtue or influence it acquires by be­
ing pofited in conjunction with any ftar or planet, in degrees equally dif-
tant from the two tropical figns. Cancer and Capricorn, in which degrees,
the Sun, when it arrives, occafions equal day and night all over the world.
For example, when the Sun is in the tenth degree of Taurus, he is as far
diftant from the firft degree of Cancer as when in the twelfth degree of
Leo; therefore, when the Sun, or any planet, is pofited in the tenth degree
of Taurus, it fends its antifcion to the twentieth degree of Leo; that
is, it gives additional force and virtue to any planet at that time in the
fame degree by conjunction, or that cafteth any afpeCt to it. The planets’
antifeions may, at all times, be found by the following table.
A TA-
Original from
M C U f v n o i / m ID I I I O D A D V
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
iy
m
z
e
u
/
i
i
l
l
|
j
;
/
/
w
w
v
v
.
i
i
o
l
i
i
i
u
ubL.ui
y
/d
L
L
t;b
b
_ub
e-«-p
u
-yuu
yit;
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
J42
A T A B L E of the A N T I S C I O N S of the P L A N E T S * .
v into
Deg. into deg. Min. into min.
1 29 1 so
& SL 2 28 2
n 23 3 27 3 57
kf t 4 26 4 S6
rr 5 25 5 55
6 24 6 54
The foregoing table fhews, that a planet, fituated in one degree one
minute of Aries fends his antifcion into twenty-nine degrees fifty-nine
minutes of Virgo; a planet in two degrees two minutes of Taurus, into
twenty-eight degrees fifty-eight minutes of Leo, and fo on through the
table. Thefe antifcions are confidered, in the rules of aftrology, equi­
valent to a fextile or a trine, particularly if the planets are of the
benevolent or fortunate kind. Thefe planets have alfo their contra-anti-
fcions, which are of the nature of a quartile, or oppofition. To know
' where thefe fall, it only requires to find the antifcion, and in the oppo-
fite fign to that will be the contra-antifcion. For inftance, luppofe Ju­
piter in one degree of Aries, his antifcion will then fall in twenty-nine
degrees of Virgo, and his contra-antifcion in twenty-nine degrees of
Pifccs, becaufe Pifces is the fign immediately oppofite to Virgo, where
the antifcion falls.
The A S P E C T S of the P L A N E T S .
The ftrongeft or moft forcible rays, afpeCts, or configurations, pecu­
liar to the planets, are the following: a conjunction, denoted by this
character, 6 ; a trine, a ; a quartile, o ; afextile, * ; and an oppofition, § .
A conjunction, <5, is not properly an afpeft, though frequently fo call­
ed ; for, when two planets are both in the fame degree and minute of a
fign, they are faid to be in conjunction, confequently cannot at that time
be in afpeCt to each other. The effefts of conjunctions are either good
or bad according to the nature and quality of the planets that compofe
them, or as the planets in conjunction are friends or enemies to one
another, or to the fubjeCt then under confideration.
A fextile afpeCt, * , implies two of the heavenly bodies pofited at the
diftance of fixty degrees in longitude, or one fixth part of the Zodiac,
* The Antifcions, according to the fyftem of Argol and Morinus, are followed here, though
difcontinued by fome modern profeffors. The Placidean method, however, will be given in the
courfe of the work.
from
V
Original from
M P / i f v r > o k ' di mi 1r i i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . >43
from each other; for which reafon it is fometimes called a fexangular
afpedt, or an hexagon. The Textile is termed an afpedt of imperfedl love,
amity, or friendfhip; becaufe when two planets, or fignificators, are in
Textile to each other, they import that any matter in difpute, treaty of
marriage, or other fubjedt of enquiry, may be happily terminated, or
brought about, by the intervention of friends; or that for want thereof,
the contrary may happen. And, though the Textile afpedt is Tometimes
over-ruled by the more powerful influences of malignant ones, yet it
is generally confldered an omen of the favourable kind.
By a quartile afpedt o , two planets are underftood to be poflted at
jjinety degrees, or one fourth part of the circle of the Zodiac, from each
other; is confldered an afpect of imperfedl hatred, and adts
with the fextile, inclining rather to malignancy, contention, and mis­
fortune, as the other does to friendfhip, harmony, and good fortune.
A trine afpedt a , imports the planets to be fituated at the diltance of
one hundred and twenty degrees, or one third part of the circle of the
Zodiac, from each other; and is fometimes called a trigonal afpedt, or
a trigonocrater, implying rule or dominion in a certain trigon or tripli-
city. This is an afpedt of the moft perfedt unanimity, friendfhip, and
peace; and it is fo confldered, becaufc when the planets are in a a afpedt,
they are poflted in figns precifely of the fame triplicity and nature; that
is to fay, they are both in an earthy, airy, fiery, or watery, fign; and
confequently both contribute the fame influences unimpeded. But in a
i* . which is an afpedt of imperfedl amity, the planets are poflted in
figns of only a partial nature, viz. fiery with an airy, or an earthy with a
watery, fign; and as the fiery fign is hot and and the airy hot and
the earthy cold and d
r
y, and the watery cold and , fo the planets
thus poflted, agreeing only in one point out of two, give but an imperfedl
influence. Thus the diflindlions between a * and a a afpedt, and between
a □ and g , are founded in reafon and experience.
The oppofition g of two planets, fignifies their being poflted at one
hundred and eighty degrees, or juft half the diftance of the Zodiac, apart,
which places them in a diametrical radiation. This is confldered an afpedl
of perfedt hatred, or of inveterate malice and enmity, as malignant in
its effedls, as the trine is benevolent; and of double the deftrudtive ten­
dency of the □ afpedt. To inftance this, let us fuppofe two kingdoms,
ftates, focieties, or private gentlemen, at variance, and it is enquired whe­
ther the caufe of difpute may be amicably adjufted? If a figure be eredted
No. 7. I i for
Original from
MCIA/ Dl ID I Ir II R D A D V
Digitized by Goi. gle
744 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
for the pofitions of the heavenly bodies, and the two fignificators, repre-
fenting the two adverfaries, be in a quartile afped, I fhould infer, that
notwithftanding the then fubfifting enmity of the parties, with all the
threatened mifchiefs attending it, harmony may be reftored, if proper
means were ufed for that purpofe. But, if the fignificators are found in
actual oppofition, the difpute in queftion would moft probably occafion
hoftility, war, litigation, or duel, or be attended with fome alarming con-
fequences, before the matter would fubfide. Wherefore an § is juftly
termed an afped of perfed enmity.
Thefe afpeds are all divided, for the fake of perfpicuity, into
and platicafpeds. A partile afped confiders two planets exadly fo many
degrees from each other as make a perfed afped j that is, if Venus be
in nine degrees of Aries, and Jupiter in nine degrees of Leo, they are in
partile trine afped. Again, if the Sun be in one degree of Taurus, and
the Moon in one degree of Cancer, they are in a partile fextile afped; fo
that all perfed afpeds are partile, and imply the matter or thing threat­
ened, whether good or evil, to be near at hand.
By a platic afped, we are to underftand two planets fo pofited, as to
admit half the degrees of each of their own rays or orbs; for i-nftance, ,
if Saturn be pofited in fixteen degrees of Aries, and Jupiter in twenty-
four degrees of Gemini, then Saturn would be in a platic fextile afped
to Jupiter, becaufe Saturn would be fituated within the moiety of both
their orbs, which are nine degrees each. The fame circumftance ap­
plies to the afpeds of all the planets; for if their diftance from each other
brings them within one half of each of their orbs or radiations, when add­
ed together, they will then form a platic afped. It mull alfo be care­
fully obferved in thefe platic afpeds, whether the co-operation of the
two planets is going off, or coming on. In the above example, the ef-
fed of Saturn’s platic fextile afpe6t with Jupiter was going off; but if
we reverfe their lituations, and place Saturn in twenty-four degrees of
Gemini, and Jupiter in fixteen degrees of Aries, then the afped would
be coming on with all its force and influence, and would proportionably
affed the fubjed, whatever it be, under confideration.
To enable the reader to find the platic afpects more readily, I fubjoin
the following table of the planets’ orbs, mean motion, and latitude.
TABLE
/
*Google Original from
MP A f V n D l f D l i m i r i l O D A D V
OF AS TROLOGY. 145
TABLE of the ORBS andM
EANMOTIONof thePLANETS.
Orbs • Mean Motion.
Saturn 10 degrees 2 minutes 1 fecond
Jupiter 12 degrees 4 minutes 59 feconds
Mars 7 degrees 31 minutes 27 feconds
Moon 12 degrees 30 min. 13 deg. 10 min. 36 fee
Venus 8 degrees 59 minutes 8 feconds
Mercury 7 degrees 30 min. 59 minutes 8 feconds
Sun 17 degrees 59 minutes 8 feconds
T A B L E of the P L A N E T S ' L A T I T U D E .
Saturn
Jupiter
Mars
Moon
Venus
Mercury
North Latitude.
D. M. S.
2 48 o
1 38 o
4 3 1 0
5 0 *7
9 2 0
-3 8 3 0
South Latitude.
D. M. S.
2 49 o
1 40 o
6 47 0
5 0 1 2
9 2 0
3 .35 0
The Sun, always moving in the ecliptic, can have no latitude.
Now it muft be obfcrvcd, that thefe afpects of the planets are project­
ed or call contrary ways, either onward-in a line progreffively with the
figns of the Zodiac, which are termed finifter afpects j or elfe backward,
in a line reverfeways to the order of the Zodiac, which are termed dexter
afpects. The whole of thefe appear at one view in the following table.
TABLE of the RADIATIONS, or SINISTER and D EX TER AS­
PECTS, of all the PLANETS.
♦ □ A S ♦ □ A S ]
Dexter
Sinifter
s s y f t
n S
B si si
n « T —
■
a m
. * *" t n
~ X v
Dexter
Sinifter
a
X ss
a SI
25 n b
, X
m
. t v
kf
1
m «
a
» nn
23
x r a
Dexter
Sinifter
n V X s t£
=
SI 23 n <
y
>
£ zz
# "l A
Yf
v » n
Dexter
%iifter
22 » V
Vf
wa. ni *t
m
t si 25
Jc
P~ X
X « n 25
* ♦ □ A S ♦ □ A S ♦ □ A S
Digitized by Goc gle Original from
M P / i l V n D t ' D l i m i r i l B R A B V
!46 a n i l l u s t r a t i o n
In the foregoing table, at the top of the third column, note the cha­
racters of the afpects Textile * , quartile o , trine a , and oppofition 8 ,
as placed over the figns of the Zodiac. In the firfl column obferve the
words dexter and finifter, and in the fecond column the fign Aries T .
Thefe are intended to fhew, that a planet, pofited in *T, would fend his
Textile afpect, dexter to Aquaries, and finifter to Gemini; his quartile,
dexter to Capricorn, and finifter to Cancer; his trine, dexter to Sagittary,
and finifter to Leo; and would be in oppofition to a planet pofited in
equal degrees of Libra. The fame rules apply throughout the table; but
it muft not be forgot, that finifter afpects go in the fame order with the
lign6 of the Zodiac, and dexter contrariwife; and that the dexter
afpects are more ftrong and powerful than the finifter. And thus, ac­
cording to the operations of the planets and ftars, are the natures of all
men, as the planets have predominancy in them; and fuch are the na­
tures of all manner of herbs and plants that grow in the field. Some
are influenced by Saturn, and thence are cold and dry; others by
Jupiter, and thence are hot and moift; one by an order of Mars draws
nothing but poifon to its roots; and another by the fweet influence of
Venus fucks nothing but the fweet Tap of the earth into all it fibres.
If Saturn or Mars rife with a birth, it is ten to one but the child dies
that year, unlefs Jupiter or Venus interpofe, by throwing their friendly
I influences ftrongly into the fign. And in thefe refpects we have as in-
j f ' conteftible proofs of the truth of what we advance, as the phyfician has
f
of the nature of herbs when he taftes them; he, from that demonftra-
tion, declares them to be hot or cold, and good either to cure or kill;
but we can afcertain this without tailing them, becaufe we know the
fource from whence they derive thefe oppofite qualities.
It were needlefs for me to dwell longer upon an explanation of the
different virtues and effects of the planets and figns. Sufficient has now
been laid to point out their operations and natural influences to the
underftanding of the moft limited capacity. It therefore only remains
for my readers, or fuch of them as intend to make any progrefs in the
ftudy, to familiarize themfelves with the fubject, by a frequent perufal of
it; and particularly to acquire a correct knowledge of all the charac­
ters by which the figns, planets, and afpects, are feverally diftinguifhed.
It will then be proper tounderfland the following terms peculiar to this
Art.
> LXPLA-
Digitized by Google Original from
M P A / v n c t ' D i i m i r i i b b a b v
u
v
n
i
a
n
i
,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
iu
z
,c
u
/
iiL
L
fj.//w
w
w
.iic
n
.iiiu
u
a
L
.L
M
y
/a
»
_
«
>
e
3
a
_
u
a
c
tfp
u
-
y
u
u
y
ic
O F A S T R O L O G Y . *47
E X P L A N A T I O N of the T E C H N I C A L W O R D S and
T E R M S of A R T ufed in A S T R O L O G Y .
D
IRECTIO N fignifies a planet moving on in its natural courfe,
from weft to eaft, according to the fucceflion of the figns in the
Zodiac; thus, a planet is direct, when it moves in confequentia, from
Aries to Taurus, from Taurus to Gemini, &c. Direction is alfo a cal­
culus, whereby to find the time of any accident or remarkable event that
will happen to the perfon who propounds a queftion, or has his nativity
caft. For inftance, a perfon enquires how many years he may live, by
the courfe of the planets at the time of birth? Having eftablifhed the
Sun, Moon, or afcendant, as fignificators of life, and Mars or Saturn as
promittors or portentors of death, the direction is a calculation of the
length of time in which the fignificator will be in meeting the promittor;
and this refolves the queftion. In thefe calculations, the fignificator is
fometimes termed apheta, or giver of life, and the promittor anareta, or
giver of death. The directions of all the principal points of the heavens,
planets, and fixed ftars, as the afcendant, mid-heaven. Sun, Moon, and
Part of Fortune, are worked by the fame rule.
S t a t io n a r y is underftood of a planet, when, to the eye or fenfes of
a beholder here on earth, it appears to ftand ftill, without any progrefiive
motion in its orbit. Not that a planet ever is or can be naturally in this
ftate, but is only rendered fo in appearance, by the inequalities which
arife from the pofitions and motions of the earth ; for, were the planets
to be viewed from the Sun, or centre of the fyftem, they would always
appear uniform and regular.
R e t r o g r a d a t io n implies an apparent motion in the planets,
whereby they feem to go backwards in the ecliptic, and to move in ante-
cedentia, or towards the antecedent figns, viz. from eaft to weft, contrary
to the order of dire<ftion and to the fucceflion of the figns of the Zodiac.
This alfo is an appearance produced by an oppofite motion of the earth to
that of the planets. ,
A pplication fignifies the approach of two planets together, either
by conjunction or afpeCt, and is of three kinds; the firft is, when a pla­
net, fwift in motion, applies to one of flower progrefs; for example, fup-
pofe Mercury pofited in fixteen degrees of Gemini, and Mars in twenty-
one degrees of the fame fign, both being direCt in motion; Mercury, by
having the greater apparent projectile force, would overtake and form a,
No. 7. K k con-
Original from
m q a i v n D i / m i m i r 1 i o d a d v
Digitized by Google
ai
finnfi-nrl-M-aqn
q
q
^
-
o
p
/
F
i
m
’
K
n
m
i
h
p
i
r
A
A
A
A
A
A
/
/
T
h
i
i
i
/
np>7nifSin-PiiRnnn
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
148 A N ^ I L L U S T R A T I O N
conjunction with Mars, which is termed a diredl application. The fe-
cond kind is formed by two retrograde planets; as, fuppofing Mercury
in fixteen degrees of Gemini, and Saturn in fifteen degrees of the fame
fign, both retrograde. Mercury, being the lighter planet, applies to the
body of Saturn, a more ponderous planet, by retrogradation; and this is
termed a retrograde application. The third kind is occafioned by one
planet going direCt in motion, and meeting another planet that is retro­
grade; for inftance, fuppofe Mercury retrograde in fixteen degrees of
Gemini, and Saturn dirc61 in twelve degrees of the fame fign; here
Mercury, being the lighter planet, applies to a conjunction of Saturn by
a retrograde motion; and thefe two laft are deemed evil applications. It
muft alfo be obferved that the fuperior planets never apply to the inferior
but by a retrograde motion; whereas the inferior planets apply both ways.
Separation is underftood of two planets that have either been in
partile conjunction or afpeCt, and are juft departed or feparated from
it. Thus, if we fuppofe Saturn in twelve degrees of Sagittary, and Ju­
piter in thirteen degrees of the fame fign, Jupiter will be then feparated
one degree from a perfeCt or partile conjunction with Saturn; but they
would ftill be in a platic conjunction, becaufe they are within the moiety
of each other’s radiations, which is four degrees and a half each, confe-
quently thefe planets would continue in platic conjunction until they
were feparated nine degrees, and then the afpeCt would entirely ceafc.
The exaCi knowledge of every degree of the feparations of thefe alpecis
is of the utmoft confequence in giving judgment upon various impor­
tant occafions. For inftance, fuppofe it were demanded whether a cer­
tain treaty of marriage would take place or not? When all the afpeCts
are collected upon the horofcope, and the two planets, that are fignifica-
tors of the parties, are found applying to each other in a conjunction,
and in common or fixed figns, the marriage may probably take place in
fome length of time. If the fignificators are pofited in moveable figns,
angular, and approaching fwift in motion to a conjunction, it may then
be confummated in a very ihort time; but, if the fignificators are fepara­
ted from a conjunction only a few minutes of a degree, one may fafely
conclude that there has been great probability, only a few days .before,
that the wedding would have taken place; but by this afpeCt the parties
appear to be hanging in fufpence, and fome diflike or change of fenti-
ment feems to have taken place: and, as the fignificators gradually.fepa-
rate from the partile and platic conjunctions, in the fame gradation will
the treaty and afFeCtions of the parties alienate and wear avH&A|^and,>
by
the comparative time that the afpeCt will occupy before it d H n lw jafes,
fo will the time be fo many weeks, months, or year bef<£Pffl|HPties
fhall wholly rclinquifh the connexion.
IITION
Digitized by Goc gle Original from
V n D k ' Dl ID I i r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 149
P rohibition indicates the Rate of two planets that are fignificators
- of fome event, or the bringing of fome bufinefs to an itfue or conclufion,
and are applying to each other by conjunction; but, before fuch conjunc­
tion can be formed, a third planet, by means of a fwifter motion, inter-
pofes his body, and deftroys the expected conjundlion, by forming an
afpedt himfelf; and this indicates that the matter under contemplation
will be greatly retarded, or utterly prevented. For example, fuppofe
Mars was pofited in feven degrees of Aries, Saturn in twelve degrees,
and the Sun in fix degrees, of the fame fign ; Mars is the fignificator of
the bufinefs in hand, and promifes the itfue or completion of it fo foon
as he comes to a conjunction with Saturn; but the Sun, being fwifter in
motion than Mars, pafieshim, and prevents their conjunction, by forming
the afpedt himfelf. This indicates, that whatever was expected from the
approaching conjunction of Mars and Saturn is now prohibited by the
Sun’s firft impediting Mars and then Saturn; and this is termed a conjunc­
tional or bodily prohibition. There is alfo a prohibition by afpedt, either
fextile, quartile, trine, or oppolition; and this happens when two pla­
nets are going into conjunction. Suppofe Mars to be in feven degrees of
Aries, Saturn in thirteen degrees of the fame fign, and the Sun in five
degrees of Gemini; the Sun, being fwifter than Mars in his diurnal mo­
tion, will quickly overtake him, and pafs by the fextile dexter of Mars,
and form a fextile dexter with Saturn, before Mars can reach him; by
this means their conjunction is prohibited.
F r u str atio n imports a fwift or light planet approaching to an
afpedt with one more flow and ponderous; but, before they can approach
near enough to form that afpedt:, the weighty planet is joined to fome
other, by which the firft al'pedt is fruftrated., To inftance this, fuppofe
Saturn pofited in fixteen degrees of Gemini, Jupiter in fifteen degrees of
Leo, and Mars in eleven degrees of the fame fign; here Mars applies to
a conjunction with Jupiter, but, before he can reach it, Jupiter meets
a fextile afpedt from Saturn, which fruftrates the conjunction of Mars,
and, in practice, utterly deftroys whatever was promifed by it.
R ef r a n a t io n is the Rate of a planet in direct motion, applying to
an afpect or conjunction with another planet, but before they can meet
becomes retrograde, and thus rejrains to form the afpedt expected. Sup­
pofe Jupitei in the twelfth degree of Gemini, and Mars in the eighth;
here Mars, the fwifter planet, promifes very foon to overtake Jupiter, and
form a conjunction with him; but juft at the inftant falls retrograde,
and refrains from the conjunction, by taking an oppofite courfe from
Jupiter. H
T ranslation
r
Original from
klC M i v n DL" Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
*5°
T ranslation of L ig h t and N a t u r e . This happens when a light
planet feparates from a weighty one, and joins with another more pon­
derous, and is effe&ed in this manner: let Saturn be placed in twenty
degrees of Aries, Jupiter in thirteen degrees, and Mars in fourteen de­
grees, of the fame fign; here Mars feparates from a conjunction with Ju­
piter, and tranflates the light and nature of that planet to Saturn, to whom
he next applies. The effeCt of this in practice will be, that, if a matter or
thing be promifed by Saturn, then whoever was reprefented by Mars
(hall procure all the affiftance that the benevolent planet Jupiter could
bellow', and tranflate it to Saturn, whereby the bufinefs in hand would be
the better effected, and more happily concluded; and this, being a very
fortunate pofition of the planets, is very proper to be known, fince it pro-
jnifes much in law-fuits, marriages, and all other queltions of the kind.
R eception is when two planets, that are fignificators in any queffion
or nativity, are pofited in each other’s dignity, as the Sun in Aries, and
Mars in Leo, which is a reception by houfes, and is deemed the molt
powerful and efficacious of all receptions. But reception may be by ex­
change of triplicity, term, or phafe, or by any effential dignity; as Venus
in Aries, and the Sun in Taurus, is a reception by triplicity, if the quef-
tion or nativity happen by day. Or if Venus be in the twenty-fourth
degree of. Aries, and Mars in the fixteenth degree of Gemini, it is a re­
ception by terms. The ufe of thefe pofitions, in practice is confiderable;
for, fuppofe the event of any queffion required be denied by the afpeCts;
or the fjgnificators are in no afpeCt with each other; or it is doubtful
what may happen from a quartile or oppolition of the fjgnificators; yet,
if the principal fignificators are found in mutual reception, the thing
defired will Ihortly come to pafs, and probably to the fatisfaCtion and
content of all the parties concerned.
P er eg rina tio n defcribes a planet to be fituated in a fign, or in
fuch certain degrees of a fign, where it has no effential dignity, either
by houfe, exaltation, triplicity, term, or phafe; as Saturn in the tenth
degree of Aries, is peregrine; and the Sun in any part of Cancer, is
peregrine, having no dignity whatever in that fign. In all queftions of
theft, it is very material to know the peregrine planet; for it has been
uniformly found, by almoft every regular profeffor of this Art, that the
thief may be almoff conftantly difcovered by the peregrine pi met pofited
in an angle, or in the fecond houfe.
Combustion is the ftate of a planet, when fituated wir'im eight de­
grees thirty minutes of the body of the Sun, either befj. /- •- tf'er him.
Suppofe Mercury in the twenty-fuff degree, the Sun in the ■
■
-enty-fifth
degrafr-
Digitized by Gc
k gle ■ A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 151
degree, and Venus in the twenty-feventh degree of Aquaries; here
Mercury and Venus would be both combuft; but Venus would be
more affcdted by it than Mercury, becaufe the Sun applies to or moves
towards Venus, and recedes from Mercury, whereby his rays afflidt her
more forcibly on his nearer approach, and become weaker upon Mercury
by his recefs from him.
C a z i mi reprefents a planet in the heart of the Sun; that is, if a planet
be only feventeen minutes before or after the Sun, as if the Sun were in
fifteen degrees thirty minutes of Taurus, and Mercury in fifteen degrees
twenty minutes of the fame fign, Mercury would be then in cazimi, or
in the heart of the Sun. All authors agree that a planet in cazimi is for­
tified thereby, and is of greater efficacy ; whereas a planet in combuftion
is of a malignant nature. If the fignificator of a querent, orperfon pro­
pounding a queftion, be combuft, it fhews him or her to be under fearful
apprehenfions, and threatened to be over-powered, or greatly injured, by
fome fuperior perfon. It ffiould be carefully oblerved, that all planets
may be in combuftion with the Sun, but the Sun cannot be in combuftion
with any planet; and that combuftion can only be by perfonal conjunc­
tion in one fign, and not by any afpedl, either fextile, quartile, trine, or
oppofition ; the Sun’s quartile or oppofite afpedts are afflifcting, but they do
not combure, or render the planet combuft. A planet is always confi-
dered under the fun-bcams, until he is elongated feventeen degrees before
or after his body.
V oid of Course, is when a planet is feparated from another planet,
and does not, during its continuance in that fign, form an afpedt with any
other. This raoft ufually happens with the Moon; and in pradtice, it is
obferved, that, if the fignificator of the thing propounded be void of
courfe, the bufinefs under contemplation will not fucceed, nor be attend­
ed with any fatisfadtory or pleafing confequences.
B e s ie g in g , fignifies a planet fituated betwixt the two malevolent pla­
nets Saturn and Mars; for inftance, if Saturn were placed in the twelfth
degree of Aries, Mars in the fixteenth, and Jupiter in the fourteenth, de­
gree, Jupiter would then be befieged by Saturn and Mars.
I ncreasing in L i g h t , is when a planet is feparating from the Sun
or the Sun from a planet; thus the Moon, at her greateft diftance from
the Sun,‘appears with the greateft: degree of light, having her whole
orb illumined.
No. 8. L I Oriental
Original from
M ci/i/ v n c v d i id 1 1r 1 i q b a d v
Digitized by Google
j 52 a n i l l u s t r a t i o n
O r ie n t a l and O c c id e n t a l . A planet, when oriental, rifes before
the Sun; and, when occidental, fets after him, and is feen above the hori­
zon after the Sun is down; confequently, when a planet is oriental, it is
pofited in the eaft, and when occidental, in the weft.
S uperiors and I nferiors. Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, arediftin-
guifhed by the name of the fuperior, ponderous, and more weighty, pla-
nets; and Venus, Mercury, and the Moon, are called the inferior planets.
/ A fuperior always governs or over-rules an inferior; this is an obferva-
tion that holds good throughout the whole fyftem of nature.
S w if t of Course, is when a planet moves farther than his mean
motion in twenty-four hours; and he isflow of courfe when he moves lefs
than his mean motion in the fame portion of time.
A l m u t io n , fignifies a planet that bears principal rule in a fign or fi­
gure; which planet muft confequently have the moft eflential dignities.
H a y z , implies a mafculine diurnal planet to be fituated above the
horizon in the day-time, or a feminine nodturnal planet pofited below the
horizon in the night-time; which is an accidental fortitude the planets
delight in, and gives a favourable omen in all figures wherever they are
found.
L o n g it u d e and L a t i t u d e . The longitude of any ftar or planet,
is the degree of the ecliptic or Zodiac in which they are found, numbered
from the firft point of the fign Aries. The latitude of a ftar, or planet,
is its diftance north or fouth from the Sun’s path or ecliptic line, num­
bered by the degrees of the meridian.
D e c l in a t io n , is the diftance a planet fwerves either north or fouth,
from the equator or equinodtial line, in his circuit through the twelve
figns of the Zodiac.
R i g h t A scen sio n , is the number of degrees and minutes of the
equinoctial line, reckoned from the beginning of Aries, and comes to
the meridian with the Sun, Moon, ftar, or planet, or any portion of the
ecliptic.
O blique A scension, is the degree and minute of the equinoctial
line, that comes to, or rifes with, the degree of longitude of any ftar or
planet in the horizon; or it is the degree of the equinodtial line that
comes to the horizon with any ftar or planet in an oblique fphere.
O blique
Digitized by Got. gle Original from
M C V M V f l D k ' Dl ID I I r I I D D A Q V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . i
O blique D escension, is the degree o f the equinoctial line that fets
in the horizon, with the degree of longitude of any ftar or planet, in an
oblique fphere; making an oblique angle with the horizon.
A scensional D if f e r e n c e , is the diftimftion between the right and
oblique afcenfion of any planet or ftar, reckoned in the equator.
P ole of Po sitio n, fignifies the elevation of the poles of the world
above the circle of pofition of any ftar or planet.
C ircles of Position, are circles pafling through the common in-
terfedions of the horizon and meridian, and through any degree of the
ecliptic, or the centre of any ftar, or other point in the heavens ; and are
ufed for finding the fituation or pofition of any ftar or planet.
H oroscope, is a figure or fcheme of the twelve houfes of heaven,
wherein the planets and pofitions of the heavens are colleded for any
given time, either for the purpofe of calculating nativities, or anfvvering
horary queftions. It alfo fignifies the degree or point of the heavens, ri­
ling above the eaftern point of the horizon, at any given time when a
prediftion is to be made of any future event; but this is now moft com­
monly diftinguilhed by the name of the .
C o l o u r s . The colours given by, or peculiar to, each of the planets
and figns, is of great importance in the determination of all queftions
where the complexion of a perfon or the colour of a thing, is neceflary
to be known. The reader mull therefore be careful to remember, that of
the planets, Saturn gives a black colour; Jupiter, red mixed with green;
Mars, a red fiery colour; the Moon, all white fpotted, or light mixed
colours; Venus, white and purple colours; Mercury, light blue or
azure colour; the Sun, all yellow colours, or inclined to purple. Of the
twelve figns, Aries gives a white mixed with red; Taurus, white
mixed with citron; Gemini, white mixed with red; Cancer, green
or ruffet; Leo, red or green; Virgo, black fpeckled with blue ; Li­
bra, black or dark crimfon, or fwarthy colour; Scorpio, dark brown; Sa-
gittary, yellow, or a green fanguine colour; Capricorn, black or ruf-
fet; Aquaries, light blue or Iky-colour; Pifces, a gliftening light co­
lour. Thus, by knowing the colour or complexion attributed to each
of the planets and figns, it is eafy to determine the complexion of the
native, or of any perfon or thing enquired after; for, as the complexion
or colour of the lord of the afcendant, or the fign, or fignificators, are,
that reprcfent the party, fuch will be their colour or complexion. So if
it be aiked concerning two cocks juft going to pit, W hich fhall be the
2 winner ?
/
Original from
m c u / di i d i ir i i d d a r v
i 54 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
winner? Ere£l the figure, and the two planets reprefenting the diflin-
guifhing colours of the two cocks lhall be their fignificators, and that
planet which is the fuperior, or has the moft elTential dignities, and is
mofl flrongly fortified, (hall by his colour point out the cock that fhall
win his battle. So of any other queflion determinable by colours.
And fince this Art cannot be underftood, nor the work read with any
pleafure or improvement, without a perfeCt and familiar knowledge of
all the characters peculiar to the figns, planets, &c. I fhall infert them
in this place all together, that they may be at any time referred to with
eafej recommending at the fame time to all my readers, not to proceed
any further till they have learned them by heart.
CHARACTERS reprefenting the TW ELV E SIGNS of the ZODIAC,
D ragon’s H e a d , D ragon’s T a i l , and P a r t of F o r tu n e.
Aries e
y
* Scorpio n
Taurus 8 Sagittary t
Gemini n Capricorn
Cancer 23 Aquaries zz
Leo St Pifces H
Virgo m Dragon’s Head 8
Libra Dragon’s Tail 8,
The Part of !?ortune ©.
A R A C T E R 3 of the P L A N E
Saturn h Moon p
Jupiter % Venus :?
Mars $ Mercury
The Sun o .
C H A R A C T E R S diftinguifhing the feveral A S P E C T S of the
P L A N E T S .
Sextile '* j Trine r^ \
Quartile □ j Oppofition g.
And the Conjunction 6 .
EX PLA N A TIO N
Digitized by Got ole Original from
M P / l f V O R k ' Dl ID I Ir I I R R A B V
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
EXPLAN ATIO N of the TW ELVE HOUSES of HEAVEN, with
DIRECTIONS for eroding the HOROSCOPE.
H
AVING (hewn what the efTential qualities are, which the planets
and heavenly matter derive from an inherent principle of oature, it
follows that I fhould explain the accidental qualities they receive by their
different pofitions in the twelve houfes of heaven; for, as the heavens
are perpetually in motion, either afeending or defeending, and fince it is
beyond the reach of human penetration to define what flar or planet fhall
afeend at the nativity of children yet unborn, fo, in reference to human
ideas, it is purely accidental what dignities the planets fhall acquire, or
what houfes they fhall bepofited in at the time of birth.
That the reader may form a competent idea of what is meant by the
twelve houfes of heaven, let us fuppofe the whole celelfial globe, or
fphere of heaven, divided into four equal parts by the horizon and meri­
dional line, and each of thefe into four quadrants, and each quadrant
into three equal parts, by lines drawn from points of fedions in different
parts of the horizon and meridian equi-diftant from each other. By this
operation, the whole globe or fphere will be apportioned into twelve
equal parts, which conflitute what we call, twelve houfes of heaven.
And thefe houfes, as observation and experience abundantly fhew, make
up that great wheel of nature, whereon depends the various fortunes con­
tingent to all fublunary matters and things.
In this divifton of the heavens, the firfl quadrant is deferibed by a pa­
rallel line, drawn from the point of theeaft angle to the fouth, or mid­
heaven ; and contains the twelfth, eleventh, and tenth, houfes, called the
oriental, vernal, mafeuline,' fanguine infant quarter. The fecond qua­
drant is deferibed by a fimilar line, running from the exterior point of the
midheaven to the point of the weftern angle, and contains the ninth,
eighth, and feventh, houfes, called the meridian, ellival, feminine,
youthful, choleric, quarter. The third quadrant is formed by a parallel
line running from the extreme point of the eighth houfc to the north
angle; and contains the fixtb, fifth, and fourth, houfes, called the occi­
dental, autumnal, mafeuline, melancholic, manly, cold and dry, quar­
ter. The fourth quadrant is deferibed by a line drawn from the extreme
point of the north angle to the extremity of the line which deferibes
the firft quadrant, both meeting in the eat! angle of the heavens, and con­
tains the third, fecond, and firft, houfes, called the northern, wintery,
feminine, phlegmatic, quarter, the feat of old age, decrepitude, and
decay. Ih e lines thus drawn deferibe the following figure, or horo-
fcope, into which the figns and planets are fcverally introduced, and re<-
No. 8. M m prefented
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
m c u / v n d is ni i d i i r i i d d a d V
prefented as in their ttue places in the heavens, before any queftion can be
l'olved, or nativity calculated. The fpace in the centre, were the figure
drawn circular, migfit represent the vacuum in which the earth moves;
but it is generally uled to write down the day, year, and hour of the day,
when the figure was created, with the purpofe of it, whether for a nati­
vity or queftion refolved.
FIG URE of the HOROSCOPE, or T welve H ouses of H eav en.^
, A
IN y v.\ /
>
1 ■
yj \
< * \ \
»
f^
2
\
M t \^ j
\y k
5 /V \ K
y \ xX V
\
Thefe twelve houfes are each diftinguifhed by their refpedtive figures,
and are either a
n
g
u
l
a
r,
f
u
c
c
e
d
e
n
t, or cadent. The angular houfes are four,
called the afcendant, midheaven or medium cceli, the feventh houfe, and
the bottom of the heaven; thefe are deemed the moff powerful and moft
fortunate houfes. The fuccedent houfes are the eleventh, fecond, eighth,'
and fifth j and are ranked next in force and virtue to the angles. The
third clafs, or cadent houfes, are the third, twelfth, ninth, and fixth; and
are confidered of the leaft efficacy of them all. But, notwithftanding they
are divided into only three clafifes, or orders, whereby their force and ef­
ficacy are eftimated, yet there is a regular gradation in this refpedt running
throogh the whole, whereby one houfe is fubordinate to the other, from
firft to laft. Confidered in this order, they ftand thus:
i 1 0 7 4 1 1 5 9 3 2 8 6 12
A
ccording
Digitized by Got..gle Original from
M P U f DIIDI Ir I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 157
According to this rule, if we find two planets, equally ftrong and
of the fame dignities, one pofited in the firft houfe and the other in the
tenth, we judge the planet in the firft houfe, or afcendant, to have fupe-
riority over the planet in the tenth houfe; and, in pradtice, we infer, from
fuch a pofition, that the perfon, whofe fignificator was in the firft houfe,
would get the better of his opponent, whofe fignificator was in the tenth
houfe; but, both being fo nearly equal in point of dignity, great ftrug-
gles and difficulties would intervene, as the nature of the cafe in point ‘
may happen to be. This rule holds good from the tenth houfe to the
feventh; the feventh to the fourth, and fo on through the whole; but
it fhould always be remembered that planets in angles, that is, thofe
which are feated in the angular houfes, are the moft forcible and potent in
their operation.
The firft houfe,. which is denoted by the figure 1, is called the afcen­
dant, becaufe, the point of its angle being level with the horizon, what­
ever planet afeends from under the earth muft afeend upon this line, and
become vifible firft in this houfe. The line upon which the planets
afeend, or move, is called the cufp of the houfes; and that of the afcen­
dant is generally reejeojied to extend about five degrees above the earth
and twenty-five degrees beneath, ready to afeend. But, if figns of long
afeenfions alcend, then half five degrees above the earth, and thirteen be­
low, are its utmoft limits. If figns of fhort afeenfions afeend, then five
degrees *bove the horizon, and fifty degrees below, are ufually allowed.
Now thp quality of whatfoever part of the heavens occupies or fills up the
degreesfcf this houfe, carries along with it the health, life, and nature, of
every infant or thing that is conceived or brought forth within itsjurifdic-
tion. And hence hath this point of the heavens a faculty of attracting or
receiving the virtues of the celeftial matter that is accidentally afeending
in that part of heaven at the birth; and alfo of the planets and fixed ftars
in their tranfits; and all the rays of the planets, in their afpedts and con-
jundtions, are attracted into this part of heaven, in order to the formation
of the fhape, ftature, temperature of the body, quality of the mind, and all
accidents and contingencies which fhall befal the native’s body, or health,
or life, unto his dying day; fuch a fympathy is there between this part
of the heavenly frame and of every adt and thing that is produced or
that receives life under it. For, as the feed in the ground, after it has
taken root, buds forth, and appears above ground, fo the heavenly in­
telligencers, after they have framed the embryo, and the temperament
thereof, under the earth, give it life and being of its own, putting forth
level with them juft as they afeend. We do not however fuppol'e, that
the temperature and qualities of the native were wholly framed at theexadl
1 time
Digitized by Got.>ale Original from
MPAf v r tc Y Dl I D I I r I I D D A D V
a
i
f
i
n
n
F
i
-
n
r
l
-
w
-
^
c
n
i
m
c
;
n
m
i
i
t
p
i
r
A
A
A
A
A
A
/
/
:
r
l
n
i
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
R
i
n
-
a
i
R
n
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
158 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
t
time of birth, although the fituation of the heavens at that time never
fails exadtly to defcribe them* we have every reafon to believe, that the
temperature and qualities of the body, and the difpofition of the mind,
are formed in regular gradations from the conception to the time of birth ;
but that the birth defcribes them is indifputably clear, becaufe it can*
not happen at any moment of time, in any part of the world, but it mull:
fall even with that part of the heavenly matter afcending from the lower
unto the upper horizon, which is interefted in, and therefore points out,
thofe temperatures and qualities. For any man to be fatisfied in this
point, let him but note what the nature of this afcending point of hea­
ven is, with all the ftars and planets pofited therein, or having afpedfc
with them from other houfes, giving each of them their due weight and
influence, according to their nature and dignity, neither ftrained one way
nor the other ; and, juft as thefe are found at the time of birth, juftfo
fhall be found the qualities and endowments of that native, with the
principal a&ions and events of his life, which this point afcending takes
the charge of. And in this trial will the reader find more fubftantial
proofs of the truth and exiftence of Aftfology than fhe mod acute argu­
ments can inftil into his mind.
Now, fince the firft houfe, or afcendant, gives birth and life to the na­
tive, it follows that thofe houfes which arc the attendants on and up­
holders of life, fhould bejoined with it; and, as children, or the native’s
offspring, are the upholders of life in this world, and religion and learn­
ing the grand means of upholding it unto eternity in the other world, fo
the houfes, which contribute thefe bleffings to the life already given, are
joined in an harmonious trine with the firft houfe, making up that three­
fold cord, which, as Solomon faith, ; the one is a
fuccedent houfe, called the fifth houfe, and th# other a cadent houfe,
called the ninth houfe; and,.to be convinced of the effects of this fifth
houfe, note the heavenly matter, planets, ftars, and afpcdts, therein po­
fited at the time of birth, according to the rules here laid down, and they
fhall truly reprefent the number and ftate of the native’s offspring, and
all other particulars relative to children, and to breeding or barren women.
So alfo examine the ftate of the eH$|nth houfe; and, as that reprefents,
fo fhall the native be in refpeft of ^religion and fcience; for the heavenly
matter, planets, ftars, and afpedts therein, fhall (hew what and how the
man fhall prove, whether wife or foolifh, devout or fchifmatical, and
what ftudy or occupation he fhall be inclined to follow : and thefe fur-
nifh matter for grace to work upon ; but, as for grace itfelf, nature can
have no power over i t ; grace may rule nature, but nature cannot fway
grace.
The
Digitized by Google Original from
Dl I P I i r I I B D A B V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . *59
The fecond angular point of the houfes of heaven is called the mid­
heaven, which is that point which culminates, being the very top or
higheft point of the heavenly frame. And, whatever part of the heavens
happens to be culminating in this point at the birth of any perfon or
thing, that takes charge of, and carries along with it, ever after, the pre­
ferment, honour, profeflion, fituation, and authority, of the native; and,
as the nature of the planets, ftars, afpedls, and heavenly matter, happens
to be, that are fituated in this point, or in the degrees pertaining to it,
fo (hall the native prove in his life-time, in point of dignity, advancement,
and reputation, in this world, whether high or low, fortunate or unfor­
tunate, favoured or difgraced. The attendants upon, and upholders of,
man’s honour and dignity, as the Scriptures and every day’s experience
perpetually (hew us, are wealth and fervants. The firft of thefe is at­
tached to the midheaven in a fuccedent houfe, called the fecond houfeof
heaven j and the other in a cadent houfe, called the fixth houfe of heaven j
and thefe two are iituated in an harmonious trine with the angular point
of the midheaven. And now well obferve what the planets, liars, af-
pedts, and heavenly matters, are in either of thefe houfes at the time of
birth, and fuch {hall the native’s fortune prove in point of riches and
fubordinate dependants; in the firft of thefe houfes for wealth, and in
the other for fervants or dependants.
The third angle of the figure of heaven is the feventh houfe, or point
of the heavens and degrees contingent, which are always or
fetting out of our horizon, and finking under the earth; and this point
is diredtly oppofite to the eaftern angle or afeendant. Now, as the rifing
heaven, or afeendant, is the beginning and conduit of life, fo this fet­
ting heaven, level with the afeendant, is the bringing all mundane
affairs level with life, fuch as our entrance into the ftate of marriage;
our contracts and enterprifes in bufinefs, war, and travel; and our con­
nections and fuccefs therein, whether with friends, ftrangers, or enemies;
and thefe whether honeft men, parafites, or thieves. And the heavenly
matter, planets, ftars, and afpedls, fituated in this angle at a nativity, appa­
rently thew how a man {hall fare in refpedt to wives, more or lefs, any or
none, good or bad; and, in matters of bufinefs or adventure, how fortu­
nate or unfortunate he may be likely to prove; and, with enemies or
thieves, how far he is likely to be injured by them. Neceflary upholders
of marriage, fupporters in trade and travel, and defenders againft thieves,
^plunderers, and enemies, are friends, relations, and neighbours. And
thefe, in a trine to the feventh houfe, are brought forth, the firft out of
the eleventh houfe of heaven, a fuccedent houfe, and the other out of the
third houfe of heaven, a cadent houfe. The eleventh houfe, by the pla-
No. 8. N n nets.
Original from
m c i a / v n di i p i i r I I
Digitized by Google
Digitize
160 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
nets, ftars, afpedts, and heavenly matter, therein, points out the ftate of
a man’s friends and hopes in this life; and the third houfe defcribes, by
the fame means, how happy or unhappy a man ftiall prove in his rela«*
tions, connections, and neighbours.
The laft angle of heaven is the fourth houfe, called the bottom of
heaven, and reprefents that point which in our conception feems to hang
at the very bottom of the round ball of the Celeftial world, being diame­
trically oppofite to the exterior, or midheaven. And, as that thews what
a man in the courfe of nature (hall rife to in the world, this, on the con­
trary, declares what and when fhall be his fall, decay, and death. This
houfe has therefore fignification of the end of every worldly concern,
and, amongft other ends, of the grave, which is the end of all men liv­
ing, however dignified or great. And the planets, ftars, and afpeCts, po-
fited in this houfe at the time of birth, never fail to (hew what kind of
end the native is likely to.find; for, as the twelve figns have each their
particular and vifible effects upon and over every part of man’s body, and
as the planets and their afpcCts fflew in what fign the native fflall be im-
pedited, that is, in what part of the body the root of his natural infirmity
mail be placed, and what accidents fhall befal him during life, fo is it
an eafy procefs to point out the manner of his death, and whether natural,
honourable, or ignominious. The upholders of this angle are the houfes
of tribulation and death; the one a fuccedent houfe, called the eighth
houfe, or houfe of death; and the other a cadent houfe, called the twelfth
houfe. And now let it be carefully obferved what planets, ftars, afpeCts,
and heavenly matter, occupy thofe houfes at the time of nativity; and
they fhall point out, in the twelfth houfe, all the principal misfortunes,
afflictions, and tribulations, of the native’s life, and in the eighth houfe
' the time and manner of his death.
Independent of the faculties hitherto fjpecified, each of thefe houfes of
heaven have other fignificators and effeas, which they demonftrate in
various other ways. For inftance, the afcendant reprefents the native
coming into th* world, and the fourth houfe at the fame time repre­
fents the parents of the native going out ; for
another always comesm-f*, according to the courfe of nature. Of thefe
parents, the father is more efpecially fignified by the fourth houfe;
and then, fecondarily, but not fo forcibly, the mother of the native is fig­
nified by the tenth houfe, and the grandfather by the feventh; and uncles,
aunts, and relations, on the father’s fide, by the fixth; and uncles, aunts.
t See Ecclef. i 4.
and
Gooole Original from
M C I A / V O D m ID I I r I I D D A D V
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
n
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
c
e
u
/
i
ill
|
j
.
/
/
w
w
v
v
.
i
i
d
i
i
m
u
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/c
iL
.L
.t:b
b
_
u
b
e
-ff-iJ
U
-y
u
u
y
ie
:
F A S T R O L O G Y . 161
and relations, on the mother's fide, by the twelfth. Hence alfo it comes
to pals, that by the fourth houfe are fignified houfes and lands, and all de­
grees of patrimony, left by the father; and by the eighth houfe are fhewn
all goods and legacies left by will of the deceafed. The fecondand fixth
houfes in half-trine to the houfe of the grave, and in oppofition to the
eighth and twelfth, have a fecondary fignification of ficknefs and death.
Such are the qualities and operations of the twelve houfes of heaven
in the common courfe of nature; but thefe qualities are fometimes ma­
terially altered, and changed for the better or worfe, by means either of
the Moon or fame other of the celeftial'motions or affe&ions. It is cer­
tain that the Moon circleth the earth once in every twenty-eight days; but
in this perambulation fhe neither keeps the Sun’s pathway in the ecliptic,
nor continues her courfe conflantly on the fame fide of it; but once in
every fourteen days fhe croffes the ecliptic, alternately to her north and
fouth declination; and it is found by long and correct observation, that
the point in the heavens where fhe croffes this line is very firongly af-
fedted by her motion. The Moon is the great body of life and growth;
and, when fhe paffes the ecliptic to the north, which brings her nearer
into this northern world, fhe then gives an extraordinary degree of fruit-
fulnefs, which wonderfully flrengthens with its influence whatfbeyer
happens within the line of its jurifdidtion. And this point, wherever it
falls, is called the Moon’s north node, but is diftinguiffied in afirological
works by the name of the Dragon’s Head, as already explained in page
125. If this point happens to afeend in a nativity, it ftrengthens life with
a robuft and lively conltiunion; if it falls in the midheaven, it promifes
great honour and preferment; if in the eleventh houfe, profperity and
riches. If Jupiter or Venus happen to be in thefe degrees, it makes them
much flronger and more efficacious in their benevolent operations; but,
if Saturn or Mare be pofited there, it gives them, on the contrary, a
ftronger inclination to prove mifehievous and unfortunate. When the
Moon interfefts the ecliptic line to her fouthern declination, fhe leaves
that point of the heavens where fhe croffes it, which is termed the Dra­
gon’s Tail, as barren to all intents and purpofes as the other was fruitful.
Hence this point afeending at a nativity blemifhes life, and leaves a ftain
upon it; impairs honour and advancement in the midheaven, and^waftes
riches, and brings adverfity, in the eleventh houfe; and it weakens as well
the benevolent a ufpices of Jupiter and Venus as the evil inclinations of
Saturn and Mars. How theiie circumflances operate beyond the equinoc­
tial, experience is yet filent; but it feems reasonable to fuppofe that the
Dragon’s Tail is there the fruitful point, and the Head the barren point,
fince, when the Moon is going off from us, her influences mufl he coming ,
on with them.
Next
Digitized by Go*, gle Original from
MCiAf v r s D is ni 1d 1 \ r 1 i d d a d v
aifSnnfi-nrl-w-s<;n
Q
c
a
n
p
/
f
i
i
m
c
;
n
n
n
i
i
p
i
i
-
A
A
A
A
A
A
/
/
:
r
h
n
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
i
n
n
n
'
n
i
P
i
n
n
r
*
162 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Next to the nodes, the Part of Fortune has its operations upon thefe
twelve celeftial houfes. The point, which we term the Part of Fortune,
is the diftance of the Moon’s place from the Sun’s, added to the degrees
of the afcendant; and the nature of it is, as conftant obfervation afcer-
tains, that, if this point falls among fortunate ftars, or in a fortunate part
of the heavens, then it promifes great fuccefs in health or wealth, honour
or offspring, or any other fpecies of profperity, according as it is feated
either in the firft, eleventh, or fifth, houfes, or in any others. The rea-
fon of this appears to be, that the Sun, Moon, and Afcendant, being the
prime conduits through which the flream of life flows, this feat of the
Part of Fortune is the harmony of all three concentering and uniting in
the fame adts of benevolence.
Now, befides thefe, there are yet other qualities, accidentally affedted,
which concern either particular perfons or times. Thus, the places of
Saturn, or Mars, or the Tail of the Dragon, in the vernal figure, are un­
fortunate in the higheft degree for the whole of that year; or, if they
happen in any of the quarter figures, they portend affliction and mif-
fortune for that quarter. But the places of Jupiter and Venus in a ver­
nal figure are as fortunate as the others are unfortunate for the fame time.
The places of an eclipfe of the Sun or Moon, and of the comets, are alfo
fortunate or unfortunate, as their fituation may be, or as perfons, coun­
tries, or ftates, may be concerned in them. The place of Saturn or Mars
in a man’s nativity proves unfortunate to him all the days of his life; and
the place in either of them in a revolutional figure is equally bad for that
year. But the place of Jupiter or Venus in a nativity, or in a revolu­
tional figure, is always as fortunate, either for a man’s life-time, or for
the year, as the other is unfortunate. Alfo the places of the twelfth
houfe, or eighth, or fixth, as they were in the native fcheme, have always
bad fignifications unto a man, whenfoever they come up upon any of his
concerns. And the places of the tenth houfe, of the eleventh, of the
afcendant, and of the fecond houfe, generally promife as much good as
the other houfes do evil upon all the common occafions of life.
Thus far we have feen the operations of the twelve houfes of heaven,
as they appertain to the time and circumftances of a nativity. We fhall
now explain their properties in that fyftem of nature upon which the
do&rine of horary questions is grounded. And fuch has been the induf-
try and indefatigable labour of our forefathers, in bringing this fcience to
maturity, and in difeoveringand diflinguifhing the particular fignifications
and efFedts of all pofitions of the planets in thefe twelve houfes of heaven,
that whoever takes the pains to inform himfelf fufflciently of them will
1 on
Origirral from
m p m d \s m id 1 1r 1 i d d a d v
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . l6 3 /
not be in want of competent grounds whereon to judge, or give rational
anfwers to every interrogation or queftion on the common occurrences of .
, life, or any contingent accidents or undertakings, with the confequenceS
and fuccefs of them.
The firft houfe bears fignification of the life of man, and of the fta- ^
ture, colour, complexion, form, and fhape, of him who propounds a quef-
tion; and, as all the viciffitudes of nature depend upon the periods of '
man’s life, fo all queftions are refolved by this houfe that relate to Tick- \
nefs, health, or long life; and alfo all accidents by which life may be en- x $ \
dangered or impaired; what part of one’s days will be the moft happy '*
•
and profperous; whether any abfent friend or relation be living or dead;V^ '
or whether any journey, voyage, or fhip at fea, will be attended with fuc- w
cefs and fafety, or meet with any accident fatal to life, or deftruCtive to
the fhip.--------In ftiort, all queftions relating to circumftances that
affeCt life are to be anfwered from the firft houfe. In ftate-aftrology,
and in eclipfes, great conjunctions, appearances of comets, and other lu­
minous and extraordinary phenomena in the heavens, and upon the Sun’s
annual ingrefs into the equinoctial fign Aries, the firft hou'e bears figni­
fication of the community at large, or of that ftate, empire, or kingdom,
where the figure is erefcied. Of colours, the firft houfe gives a white;
from which is to be underftood, that, if a planet be pofited in this houfe
that governs a light colour, and a queftion be propounded from any party
relative to a perfon, matter, or thing, where colours are concerned, and
this planet be the fignificator thereof, then the perfon's complexion and
hair, or, if cattle, then their Colour, ftiall be of a white, pale, or lightifh,
kind; and, though this may appear ridiculous and infignificant to the un-
derftanding of fome readers, yet the faCtftands unfhaken in practice. Now,
as every one of the twelve houfes of heaven have their fignificators, fo
have they alfo their co-fignificators, which have frequent operation, hnd
therefore ought to be confidered. A co-fignificator is a planet either
fallen into conjunction or joined in afpeCt with the principal fignificator;
in which cafes the planet either aflifts or oppofes in the matter under con-
fideration; if it be joined with a benevolent planet, it imports good ;
but, if it happens to the contrary, it either denotes deftruCtion to the fub-
jeCt of enquiry, or great difturbance in the effecting it. The co-fig­
nificators of this houfe are Saturn and Aries; and, if Saturn is moderately
well dignified in this houfe, and in any benevolent afpect with Jupiter,
Venus, or the Sun or Moon, it promifes a good fober conftitution </f body,
and generally gives long life. If Mercury is lord of this houfe, and well
dignified, the perfon Avail be a powerful and good fpeaker.
No. 8. O o From
Original from
MC\A/ v n B V D I I P I IC I ID D A D V
164 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
From the fecond houfe we form judgment upon all queftions relating
to wealth or poverty, profperity or adverfity, and lofs or gain in any un­
dertaking that may be propounded by the querent; and alfo concerning
moveable goods, money lent, or employed in fpeculation. In fuits of
Jaw or equity, it (hews a man’s friends or afliftants; in private duels, it
defcribes the querent’s fecond; in eclipfes, it fhews the growing profpe­
rity or adverfity of a ftate or people; and, at the Sun’s entrance into Aries,
it exprefles the ftrength of the empire where the figure is ereCted, in its
internal refources, in its allies, and in all other requifites of war, or felf-
defence. It gives a green colour, of which a fimilar ufe is to be made
as is defcribed in the firft houfe; and the fame obfervation will hold
good in all other houfes, and in queftions that relate to colours. The
co-fignificators to the fecond houfe are Jupiter and Taurus; for, if Jupiter
be placed in this houfe, or is lord thereof in full dignity, it implies the
acquifition of an eftate or fortune; but the Sun and Mars never promife
good in this houfe; either of them indicate difperfion of fubftance, ac­
cording to the capacity and quality of him who propofes the queftion.
The third houfe having fignification of brethren, filters, kindred, and
neighbours; and of all inland journeys, and of removing one’s manu­
facture or bufinefs from one pi >ce to another; fo all queftions that are
founded upon any fubjeCts relative thereto are anfwered from the pla­
nets fituated in this houfe. Its co-fignificators are Mars and Gemini;
which is one reafon why Mars, unlefs joined with Saturn, is not found
fo generally unbenevolent in this houfe as in the others. If the Moon
be pofited here, it is always an argument to the querift of much reftlefT-
nefs, travelling, and change of fituation. This is a fuccedent houfe, and
gives a yellow, red, or forrel, colour.
From the fourth houfe we refolve all queftions in any way relating to
or concerning the father of the querift. Alfo all enquiries relating to
lands, houfes, oreftates; or to towns, cities, caftles, or intrenchments,
befieged; of treafures hidden in the ground, and all other queftions re­
lating to the earth; are anfwered out of this houfe, which is called the
mum cceli, or the angle of the earth. Its co-fignificators are the Sun and
Cancer; and therefore, if the Sun be pofited in this houfe, it denotes the
father o f the querift to be of a generous and noble difpofition. It go­
verns the red colour.
By the fifth houfe we form all our predictions relative to children, and
to women in the ftate of pregnancy; alfo, all queftions concerning the
prefent health of abfent fons or daughters, or the future health of thofe
at home;, enquiries relating to the real and perfonal effects of one’s fa-
1 ther,.
Digitized by Google Original from
MDWU v n o k ' Dl ID I Ir I ID D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y 16f
ther, or concerning the fuccefs of meffengers, ambaffadors, or plenipo­
tentiaries; or refpe&ing the ammunition or internal ftrength of a place
befieged; are all anfwered from this houfe. Its co-fignificators are Ve­
nus and Leo, and therefore unfortunate when occupied either by Saturn
or Mars, both of which indicate bafe and untoward children to the en­
quirer, It indicates a mixed black and white or fanguine colour.
The fixth houfe refolves all queftions that in any refjpeCt appertain to
fervants or cattle. All’
o enquiries concerning the ftate of a lick per-
fon, whether curable or not; the nature of the difeafe, and whether of
fhort or long duration; particulars relating to uncles and aunts, and all
kindred on the father’s fide; alfo concerning one’s tenants, ftewards,
or the like; are refolved by the difpofition of the ftars and planets fituated
in this houfe. Its co-fignificators are Mercury and Virgo; and, when
Mars and Jupiter are found in conjunction here, it is a ftrong argument
of a good phyfician, whenever it comes up upon a queftion propounded
in behalf of a patient who is vifited by a gentleman of the faculty. This
houfe, having no afpeCt with the afeendant, is always deemed unfortu­
nate. It gives a black or dark colour.
By the feventh houfe, we are enabled to refolve all queftions on love-
affairs and marriage, and to deferibe the perfon of either the man or
woman that the querift will be joined with in marriage. It likewife
anfwers all enquiries of the defendant in law-fuits and litigations; or
concerning our public enemies in time of war. In thefts, it enables us
to deferibe the perfon of the robber, by his fhape, ftature, complexion,
and condition of life. In an annual ingrefs, it ufually indicates whether
peace or war may be expended; and, prior to an engagement, betokens
which fide fhall prove victorious; it difeovers fugitives, out-lawed men,
and offenders efcaped from juftice. The co-fignificators to this houfe
are the Moon and Libra;, and, when Saturn or Mars are found herein, it
is deemed an unfavourable omen, productive of great forrow and wretch-
ednefs to the querift in any matrimonial engagement. It gives a dark
blue, black, or brown, colour.
From the eighth houfe we folve all queftions concerning death, its
time, quality, and nature; with all matters relating to legacies, wills,
and laft teftaments; or who fhall inherit the fortune and eftates of the
deceafed. Enquiries on the dowry or portion of maids or widows; in
duels, concerning the adverfary’s fecond; in law-fuits, relative to the
defendant’s fuccefs and friends; and queftions on public or private ene­
mies, or concerning the fubftance and fecurity of thole we connect our-
felves w ithin bufinefs; are all anfwered by the fituation of the planets in
this
Digitized by Go*,>sle m c u / v n D u m in i i r* i i d d a d V
Original from
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
w
.
i
i
d
li
iil
i
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/d
i_
L
.t:i>
b
_
u
5
fc
;-w
-p
u
-y
u
u
y
it;
166 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
this houfc. Its co-flgnificators arc Saturn and Scorpio; and its colours
are green and black.
By the ninth houfe we are enabled to anfwer all queftions on the fafety
and fuccefs of voyages and travels into foreign countries; alfo, enquiries
of the clergy concerning church preferments, benefices, advowfons, and
the like, and all queftions relative to kindred and relations on the wife’s
fide; and the fame on the hufband’s fide, if the wife be the querilt; and
all matters relating to the arts and fciences are likewife refolved from this
houfe. Jupiter and Sagittarius are its co-fignificators; for, if Jupiter be
pofited herein, it naturally indicates a man of religious and exemplary
manners, and of modeft carriage and behaviour; but, if Saturn, Mars,
or the Dragon’s Tail, are found herein, it indicates a perfon of atheiftical
and irreligious principles; inftances of which, from the nativities of ma­
ny unhappy men of this caft, are almoft innumerable. The colours be­
tokened by this houfe are green and white.
The tenth houfe, being the medium coeli, or moft elevated part of the
whole heavens, refolves all queftions concerning kings, princes, dukes,
earls, marquifles, and all noblemen; judges, principal officers of ftate,
commanders in chief, all orders of magiftrates, and other perfons in
power and authority. Enquiries after preferment, honours, dignity, of­
fices, places, penfions, or finecures; or concerning the ftate of king­
doms, empires, provinces, commonwealths, counties, cities, or focic-
ties of men; are all refdved from the midheaven. The co-fignificators
of this houfe are Capricorn and Mars; and, whenever Jupiter or the
Sun are polited herein, it gives the ftrongeft prefumptions of fuccefs in
whatever purfuits the querift may be engaged. But, if Saturn or the
Dragon’s Tail afflict the fignificators in this houfe, it denies honour,
fuccefs, or preferment, to perfons of quality or eminence; and to com­
mon people it denotes vexation and difappointment in the common
functions of their occupation or employment. Its colours are the red
and white.
By the eleventh houfe we anfwer all enquiries concerning friends and
friendfhip, hope, truft, expectance, or defire; alfo whatever relates to
the fidelity or perfidioufnefs of friends; or to the counfellors, advifers,
affociates, favourites, flatterers, or fervants, of kings, princes, or men in
power. The co-fignificators of this houfe are the Sun and Aquaries;
and its colour is either faflrron or deep yellow.
The twelfth houfe, being the houfe of contribution, refolves all queftions
of forrow, affliction, anxiety of mind, trouble, diftrefs, imprifonment,
perfecution.
V .
D
2
Original from
MCVA/ QV Dl ID I i r I I D D A D V
Digitized by ( j O O Q I C
u
u
m
c
i
i
i
i
,
v
j
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
z
.
e
u
/
n
l
l
|
j
.
7
/
w
v
v
v
v
.
h
c
i
l
i
nu
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/
d
n
_
e
^
i
_
u
b
e
-
w
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
e
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 167
perfecution, malice, fecret enemies, fuicide, treafon, confpiracy, afTaf-
iination, and every thing appertaining to the misfortunes and afflidtions
of mankind. Its co-fignificators are Venus and Pifces; and Saturn great­
ly joyeth in this houfe, being the parent of malevolence and malignity.
The colour it gives is green.
From the foregoing circumft.intial furvey of the twelve houfes of hea­
ven, I truft the reader will be enabled to form fuch an idea of the nature
of predicting by the horofeope, as will enable him not only to proceed to
place the liars and planets therein with correctnefs and precifion, but alfo
to form an accurate and diftindt judgment of their power and influence,
under whatever afpedts or pofitions he may occafionally find them; for
until he can accomplifli this, it will be in vain for him to attempt any
examples in the dodtrine of horary queflions or nativities, which will be
the next objedt of cur plan, after explaining the tables for finding the
places of the planets every hour and minute of the day, and directing the
reader how to place them in the horoicope. But I cannot dilinil’s this
fubjedt, without giving my readers the definition of the twelve houfes of
heaven, from the works of the learned and much-efteemed philofoph-r and
aftrologian, Morinus; and in doing this, I fhall adhere as much to the
lpirit and letter of the author, as the nature of a tranflation will admit.
** It is a fad!, fays this excellent author, which preponderates in the ba­
lance of reafon, and highly claims our fober confideration, that the life of
man is refolvable into four diftindt periods or ages; namely, infancy,
youth, maturity, and old age; though it may be laid with ftridt truth,
that fcarcely half the human race attain to the conclufion of only their third
period. In the conftrudtion of man therefore, we difeover four affedtions,
into which all other things appear to be reducible, as it were to. their firft
beginning; namely, life, adtion, marriage, and paffion. Thefe agree with
the rife, perfedtion, declination, and termination, of all things, and com-
prife the whole effedts and operations of nature. For man is truly faid.
to rife into the world the moment he receives refpiration and life; to be
in perfedtion when he attains to manhood and maturity, and to the pro­
pagation of his fpecies; to decline, when he begins to lofe the innate
radical principle of heat and moillure; and to fultain the laft paffion of
life, when he ceafes to breathe, and filently finks into the grave. The
life, adtion, marriage, and paffions, of men, are therefore governed by the
fame celeftial principle, which regulates the birth, perfection, declina­
tion, and diffolution, of all other things. Wherefore life, in the fyftem
of nature, is regulated by the eaft angle of the heavens, called the afeen-
dant ; adtion, by the l'outh angle, or midheaven; marriage, by the weft
angle; and paffion, by the north angle of the heavenly frame. And hence
No. 8. P p arife
S
Digitized by Go*, ole Original from
MCiAf v a d i / n 1 1n 1 1r* 1 1 0 0 a d v
168 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
arife four triplicities of the fame genus or generical nature, and twelve
houfes, as heretofore defcribed. The firft triplicity is of the eaftern an­
gle, or afcendant, attributed to infancy, and called the triplicity of life,
and includes the firft, ninth, and fifth, houfes, which behold each other
in a partile trine in the equator, where this rational divifion of the twelve
houfes is made.
“ Man either does, or ought to, live in a three-fold refped, in himfelf,
in God, and in his pofterity; for the great ends for which he was created,
are to worfhip and glorify his Maker, and to propagate his fpecies. The life
of man in himfelf is therefore the firft and prime objedl in the order of
nature; for, without this, all other parts of the creation would be vain,
being made for man su f e a n d benefit. For this caufe, thelife of man ap
pertains to the firft and principal houfe in the divifion of the heavens.
But man’s life in God, confiftingnn his image of the Divinity, in the ra­
tionality of his foul, and in the purity of his morals, claims, for this rea-
fon, the ninth houfe, according to the motion of the equator, which is
the houfe of piety and religion. And as man’s life is continued in his
pofterity, according to one and the fame unchangeable law prefiding over
all nature, fo the houfe of infancy and children, which is the fifth houfe,
is appropriated for this purpofe. And thefe three concerns being con-
fefifediy the grand objc£t of man’s life, the three houfes of heaven, under
which they are refpedtively nourifhed and foftered, form a trine with each
other, in a chain of mutual harmony and concord.
“ The fecond triplicity confifts of the angle of the midheaven with
the fixth and fecond houfes. This triplicity wholly appertains to the
fecond ftage of man’s life, namely, that of vigour and adtion; and there­
fore comprehends all worldly attainments, with the advantages flowing
from them; for every thing that worketh phyfically worketh for fome
phyfical good; and, as the motion of the equator is from the eaft angle to
the midheaven, fo is the progrefs made in all our earthly acquifitions.
The higheft degree of man’s elevation in this world, is to that of majefty,
power, honour, dignity, preferment, or magiftracy, or to any of thofe fi-
tuations by which he acquires fuperiority and affluence. Thefe confid­
ing of immaterial matter, and forming the firft order of earthly dignity,
claim the angular houfe of this triplicity, or the midheaven. The fe­
cond degree of worldly honour, is conceived to arife from fubjeds, fer-
vants, tenants, vaflals, and domeftics; and thefe, being formed of mat­
ter material and animated, are placed under the fixth houfe. The third
advancement to earthly grandeur, is by matter material and animate, fuch
as gold, jewels, and other valuable effeds, accumulated by induftry and
fweat oj the brow',which being under the fecond houfe, thefe thteehoufes
2 are
Digitized by Google Original from
mcu/ v n D iim ir IIODADV
^
i
f
i
n
o
R
-
n
d
-
w
-
»
c
;
n
i
m
c
t
n
n
n
i
i
p
i
r
A
A
A
A
A
A
//:
r
l-
n
i
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
S
n
n
o
'i
i
i
p
i
n
n
n
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 169
are alfo joined by fympathy in a partile trine, applying to each other in
concord and unanimity.
“ The third triplicity comprehends worldly connections, whether by
marriage, confanguinity, or friendlhip, and thefe holding on in the or­
der of nature, even as the progrefs is made from tht: miuheaven to the
weftern angle, apply to the progrellive tendency of youth to manhood and
maturity. In this ftage of life, man is joined in a three-fold tie or obli­
gation; in body, in blood, and in friendlhip. Firft, he is joined in body,
by the mod facred of all earthly ties, matrimony; lanTioned under the
feal of God’s primary command, “ and multiply.” Secondly, he
is joined in confanguinity, not only by the propagation of his like, but
by all orders of his kindred in blood. Thirdly, he is joined in friend-
fhip under that facred bond of benevolence and love, which the Almighty
commands every man to exercife towards his neighbour. This is the
very cement of fociety, and medicine of life, performing thofegood offi­
ces in civil life which the tree of life promifed in our more perfedt ftate;
and thefe are the lentiments of fricndfhip which alone can give a true
relilh to every enjoyment of this world. The mod: important of thefe
obligations, being marriage, is for that reafon placed under fandtion of the
angular or fuperior houle; the fecond tie, being that of blood, claims the
government of the third houfe; and the eleventh houfe, which perfedls
this triplicity, is facred to friendfhip. Thefe three boufes, from an
union of nature, behold each other in a partile trine, according to the mo­
tion of the equator.
“ The fourth and laft triplicity is that of paffion, which comprehends
the three dalles of human afflictions. The firft or angular houfe of this
triplicity, in alluiion to its polition in the lower horizon, is termed the
dark angle, the depth of night, and bottom of heaven; the den and cave
of the liars and planets. To this houfe is committed the firft order of our
woes, agreeable to the courfe of nature. Thefe are, infupportable mif-
fortunes, and vifible decline of life; the firft conlequences of original
fin, by which man is devoted to corruption and decay, and to all the infir­
mities of nature. The fecond order of human afflictions, is tribulation,
forrow, and difeafe; arifing either from the treachery and perfecution of
enemies, from the chains of fervitude and bondage, or from poverty and
want. Thefe, with a long train of confequent miferies, are appropriated to
the twelfth houfe. The laft Ihock that can be fuftained by human na­
ture, is death, the final end of all men. This is under government of
the eighth houfe, termed, on this account, the houfe of death. And thefe
houles likewife, from the conformity of their nature and qualities, con-
flitutc a partile trine in the equator.
“ Thus
Digitized by Go^ sle Original from
M P u r v n u t ' di i m 1r 1 i q d a d v
l;® A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
“ Thus the termination of this temporal life is the beginning of life
eternal. For nature knows no annihilation. All the works of Omnipo­
tence are refolvable or changeable from one ftate to another; but God,
having created nothing in vain, fuffers nothing to he annulled. Where­
fore according to the fecon'd motion of the planets, which is from weft to
eaft, an entrance is made out of the eighth into the ninth houft* which
is the houfe of life in God, wherein man is taught by the revelation of
the SUPREM E W ILL, that he fhall pals, by the fecond motion of the
foul, which is attributed to the mind or reafon, as the firft or wrapt foul
or fenfitive appetite is to the body, from this life of anxiety and peril,
to an eternal life of peace and reft. And therefore, whatever is firft in
dignity in the order of nature, poffelfes the firft; andmore'noble heufes in
thefe triplicities, in regular fubordination, according to the motion of
the ecliptic and planets.
“ And now, w h a t m a n i s h e , who, confiding in the ftrength of his
own wifdom, will dare to meafure the works of his CREATOR by the
ftandard of his own comprchenfion ? or will venture to affirm, that thefe
operations and divifions of the .twelve celeftial houfes, conjoined with
fuch wonderful harmony, contrivance, and concord, are the efFeds of
chance oraccident? or that will fay, fuch admirable confents, fo excellently
formed, and mutually dependent on each other, are cafually found in
things fo complicated and abftrufe? If he obftinately perfifts that thefe
are altogether fidlious, let him point out the thing wanting to complete
the evidence in fupport of the natural foundation and excellency of them ?
But he can do neither; and therefore, as this divifion of the heavens is
founded in reafon, and obvioufly contrived by lupernatural wifdom and
prefcicncc, it comprehends genethliacally all things that in the courfe of
nature can poffibly be enquired of or concerning the works of man.
For as much as the knowledge of contrarieties is univerfally the fame, fo
an affirmative, or a negative, may be fought out, and found to be comprifed
in the twelve houfes of the Zodiac, anfwering to the divifion.”
DIRECTIONS
Digitized by Google Origiral from
m e u / v n d v di i m i r i i r r a r v
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
nii|j;//vvvvvv.iidu
mu
u^
i.
u
iy
/d
cc
t
;
5b
_
u
b
e-
/y
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
it;
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 171
D IRECTIO N S for eredting the FIG URE of HEAV EN, and placing
the PLA N ETS in the HOROSCOPE.
W
IT H O U T being expert at finding the true places of the planets
and liars, at any hour or minute required, either by day or night
and without knowing how to difpofe them in the horofcope, fo as to re-
prefent their exadt fituations in the heavens; nothing can pofiibly be
known or predicted by Aftrology. This acquifition, therefore, is the
next Rep to be attained ; and, though it may at firR appear a talk of fome
difficulty and labour, yet by the help of a common Ephemeris, which is
publifhed annually, and the following tables, which are calculated and
Subjoined for this purpofe, the reader may in a few hours become perfedt
mailer of this very efiential part of the fcience.
The Ephemeris, of which Mr. W hite’s is the beft, is calculated to
(hew the exadl places of the Sun, Moon, and planets, every day at twelve
o’clock; confequcntly, by referring to it, a figure may be accurately fet
to that exadt time. But it may feldom or never happen, that a figure is
wanted precifely at that hour, and therefore it is neceifary the young prac­
titioner fhould know how to redtify the daily motions of the planets, by
the number of degrees they move every twenty-four hours, fo as to eretl
the figure, and introduce the true places of the figns and planets, when­
ever required. T his, by referring to the Ephemeris for the Rations of
the planets at noon, may be done extremejy eafy, by the common pro-
cefs of figures; but, that every reader may be enabled to do it without
trouble, I have fubjoined an eafy table, whereby the planetary motions
are reduced to hours and minutes, and may be found for either day or
night.
It is likewife of importance to know the planetary hours, that is, the
hour in which every planet has its particular rule; for hereby we are
enaibled to determine various points, and to draw many ufeful conclu-
fions, either in our judgment on nativities or horary queftions. In ga­
thering herbs for medicinal purpofes, the planetary hour is certainly
of confequence, however modern refinement might have exploded
the idea. In nature, the moR fimple remedies are frequently found to
produce the moR falutary effedts; and in earlier times, when the art of
phyfic was lefs obfeured, and pradtifed more from motives of benevo­
lence, the world was lefs afflidted with difeafe, and the period of hu­
man life lefs contracted. The fupreme Being, in his abundant mercies
to mankind, has furniihed ample remedies in the laboratory of nature,
were nature but adhered to, for the removal of every curable diforder in-
No. 9. Q q cident
Digitized by Google On git aI from
MCMf Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
cident to the human frame j for, notwithftanding all the parade of com­
pound medicines the art of phyfic does not confift fo much in preparing
the remedy as in knowing how to apply it. Hence it happens that old
women, without education or experience, by the help of a Ample herb
gathered in the planetary hour, in which hour it imbibes its greatcft degree
of ftrength and fpecific virtue, will fometimes perform very extraordi­
nary cures, in cafes where geptlemen of the faculty are absolutely at a
lofs how to treat them*. The planetary hours always begin at fun rif-
ing, and each planet governs in rotation, according to the following table.
A TABLE of PLANETAR Y HOURS for every D a y in the Week,
beginning at S un R is in g .
Sunday
Pla. H.
M
onday
Pla. H.
Tuefday
Pla. H.
W
ednef.
Pla. H.
Thurfday
Pla. H.
Friday
Pla. H.
Satur.
Pla. H.
G 1 D 1 9 I 9 1 V 1 9 1 b 1
* 2 b 2 O 2 ) 2 9 2 9 2 if 2
» 3 V 3 ? 3 b 3 G 3 I
> 3 3
D 4 9 4 9 4 If 4 9 4 b 4 G 4
* 5 O 5 D 5 9 5 9 5 if 5 * 5
V 6 ? 6 b 6 O 6 J
> 6 9 6 9 6
* I
9 7
n 7 9 7 b 7 O 7
D 7
O 8 5 8 9 8 9 8 if 8 9 8 1
? 8
? 9 * 9
0 9 I 9 9 9 9 9 If 9
9 10 If 10 9 3 0 1
? 10 G 10 T
> 10 9 10
D II 9 1
1 9 1
1 if 1
1 9 1
1 b 1
1 G 1
1
b12 O 12 T
> 12 * 3 2 9 12 if 12 9 12
n 13 9 > 3 b 1 3 O *3 D 1
3 9 * 3 9 2 3
914 9 14 if 1 4 * H b 1 4 0 24 D J 4
O 1
5 I * 5
9 1 5 9 2 5 if 1 5
9
2 5 b
9 l6 b 16 O l6 D 16 9 16 , 9 16 Jf 16
» 17 n 17 9 17 b * 7 O 17
i> 2 7 «
? X1
» 18 9 18 9 1
8 if 18 9 18 b 1
8 0 1
8
b 19 0 19 J 2 9 9 J 9 9 19 n * 9 9 *9
V 20 9 20 b 20 0 20 D 20 9 20 9 20
* 21 9 21 if 2 1 9 21 * 21 G 21 D 21
O 22 9 22 9 22 9 22 22 9 22 b 22
? 23 b 23 O 23 J
> 23 * 23 9
23 if 23
9 24 if 24 9 24 1
? 24 G 24 D 24 9 *4 .
To
* Although the author cannot too feverely cenfure the ambiguous garb in which the mo
dern pra&ice of phyfic is attired, yet he wiflies not to hurt the feelings of thofe good merx
whofe Hves have been devoted to the ftudy of medicine, and who moved, like the good Sama­
ritan*
Original from
M E U / V r \ D n i ID I i r • ■r> rt m
Digitized by Got ale
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 173
To underftand the preceding table, the reader muft recollect that we
have already affigned to each planet his refpedtive rule over every day in
the week; for inftance, the Sun governs Sunday, the Moon Monday,
Mars Tuefday, Mercury Wednefday, Jupiter Thursday, Venus Friday,
and Saturn Saturday. Each planet begins his rule the moment the Sun
appears above the horizon; and continues for one planetary hour, at the
expiration of which the next planet in order commences his rule, and con­
tinues the fame portion of time, and then the third planet in order governs,
and fo on through the whole week. So that, if I want to know what planet
rules in any particular hour of the day or night, I take the planet which
begins rule that day, and reckon in order till I find it. For example, on
Sunday the Sun rules the firft hour, Venus the fecond, Mercury the third,
the Moon the fourth, Saturn the fifth, Jupiter the fixth, Mars the feventh,
the Sun the eighth, Venus the ninth, and fo on through the whole day
and fucceeding night, till the Sun rifes again, by which mode of reckon­
ing it will be uniformly found, that each planet will begin his govern­
ment at Sun rifing, according to the order above defcribed, to the end
of the world. This alfo.evidently appears by the table; for if we begin
with the firft column, and reckon down the whole twenty-four hours,
we find the Moon begins her government at the top of the fecond column
on Monday morning, when the Sun rifes. If we reckon down the fecond
column, in the fame order, we find Mars begins his rule at the top
of the third column, on Tuefday morning. So the planets will be found
to obferve the fame regular order throughout all the other columns,
which take in the hours of every day and night throughout the week;
and for the enfuing week the table begins again in the fame order, and
will fo continue without alteration or error, to the end of time. By re­
ferring to the figures, which reprefent the refpedtive hour of every day
ritan, with bowels of compaflion* adminifter balm to the bleeding iiTues of their afflicted bre­
thren. ' The many invaluable difcoveries lately added to the Pharmacopoeia, both from rhe
vegetable and mineral worlds, are ftrong arguments of the neceflity of regular practice, and of
profeffional education, in forming the phylician. But were the bulk of thefe gentlemen to
confult a little more the planetary influences, both on vegetable and mineral fubflances, and
apportion them in their prefcriptions according to the nature and conlfitution of the patient,
uniformly confulting the effedts of Saturn and the Moon in each crilis and critical day, 1 am
perfuaded that more immediate relief, in mod cafes where nature is not too far exhaufted, might
be afforded to the fick and languifhing patient. Surgery too, which like a guardian angel itcps
forward to alleviate the perilous accidents of the unfortunate, would gain much improvement
by the like confiderations. It is not therefore the regular-bred practitioners of either Phyfic or
Surgery that the author means to. arraign; but that baneful defeription of empirics and
quacks, who now pervade the kingdom; and, like a fwarm^of locufts from the caff, prey,
upon the vitals of mankind. Thefe mongers in the fhape of^men, with hearts callous to every
fentiment of companion, have only fees in view. Governed by this fordid principle, they
fport with lifer unmoved amidft the bitter anguifh and piercing groans of the defponding patient;
till, too far gone for human aid to reltore, they abandon him to defpair and death. For the lake
of humanity, and thehonour of a Cnriftian country, let the legiflative pow-er check this growing
enormity!
and
Digitized by Gck ale Original from
M H / i / v n o k ' d i i n i 1
r 1i R R
i 74 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
and night throughout the week, the reader may always fee what planet
governs in that hour, as its character is placed in the fame line with the
figure. For example, fuppofe I want to know what planet rules the
fifth hour on Sunday morning; I look down the firft column of the
table, over which is placed Sunday planetary hour, and at the 5th hour,
I find Saturn governs. Again, fuppofe it be required to know what pla­
net governs the ninth hour on Friday afternoon ? Look down the column
over which Friday planetary hour is printed, and in the 9th hour it will
be fecn that Mercury governs. Or if it be afked, what planet rules the
nineteenth hour on Wednesday night.? Look down the column over which
Wednesday planetary hour is prefixed, and at 19, which fignifies the
19th hour, or the feventh hour after the Sun is fet, it will be found that
Mars governs; and fo for any other time required.
But a planetary hour not agreeing with the common divifion of time,
and being peculiar to aftronomy and aftrology only, we fiiall explain it
more fully. Theplanetary hours are reckoned from the time of the
Sun’s rifing to its fetting, which fpace of time is divided into twelve
equal parts, and thefe are termed the twelve planetary hours of that day.
Then the time from the Sun’s fetting to its rifing the next morning is
in the fame manner divided into twelve equal parts, and thefe conftitute
the twelve planetary hours for that night. Hence it is obvious, that,
when the days are fhort, a planetary hour does not confift of above forty
minutes, more or lefs, according to the twelfth part of the whole time
from the Sun’s rifing to its fetting; and, the nights being then long, a
planetary hour by night may conlift of an hour and ten or twenty minutes,
or more; and fo •viceverfa, when the days are long, and the nights ihort;
fo that the duration of planetary hours, both by day and night, are con­
tinually varying, and never agree with the common meafure of time,
except on thofe two days in every year when the Sun enters Aries and
Libra,'and then equal night and day is difpenfed to all parts of the world.
Therefore, to enable the reader to find the length of the planetary hours
without the trouble of calculating, I fubjoin the following table, by
which they may be found, both night and day, for ever.
TABLE
Digitized by Google Original from
M C U / V f l D F D I I P I i r I I D R A D V
O P A S T R O L O G Y . 175
T A B L E o f the P L A N E T A R Y H O U R S for every D a y and
N i g h t intheW
eek.
Length of the
Day.
Length of the Plane­
tary Hours by Day.
Length of the Plane- 1
tary Hours by Night. 1
H. M. H . M. S. H . M
. S.
6 0 0 3 o 0 1 30 0
6 3 ° 0 32 3° 1 27 30
7 0 0 35 0 1 25 0
7 3° 0 37 3° 1 22 30 i
8 0 0 40 0 1 20 0 1
8 30 0 42 30 1 J7 30
9 0 0 45 0 1 *5 0
9 30 0 47 3° 1 32 30
10 0 0 50 0 1 10 0
10 30 0 5* 3 ° 1 7 3 °
11 0 0 55 0 1 5 0
11 30 0 57 30 1 2 3 o
12 0 1 0 0 1 0 0
12 3° 1 2 30 0 57 30
*3 0 1 5 0 0 -5 5 0 I
13 3° 1 -7 1 30 0 52 30
14 0 1 10 0 0 50 0
14 3° 1 12 30 0 47 3 o
15 0 1 *5 0 0 45 0
15 3° 1 *7 30 0 42 30
16 0 1 ' 20 0 0 40 0
16 30 1 22 30 0 37 3 °
J7 0 1 25 0 0 35 0
Thefirft colum
noftheabove table is intended to{hewthe tim
e be­
tw
een the rilingand fetting of the Sun, from fix hours to feventeen,
which takes inm
orethan thelongeftor fhorteft days. Then fuppofethe
timefromtheSun’srifingtoits fetting beonlyfix hours; the planetary
hours that daywould beeachthirtym
inuteslong, asfpecifiedinthefe-
cond colum
n, and the planetaryhours the night following w
ould be
eachonehour and thirty m
inutes long, as exprefifedinthe third co­
lumn. A
gain, fuppofe the tim
e betw
eenthe Sun’srifingandfettingbe
thirteen hoursandthirty minutes, what w
ouldbethe lengthofthepla­
netaryhours that dayandnight? Look inthe firft colum
nof the table
No. 9. R r for
( "
Digitized by Goi sle Original from
MC\A/ v n o k ' Dl ID I i r I I D D A D V
176 ' A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
for thirteen hoursandthirtym
inutes, andinthe fam
elineinthefecond
column H
andonehour fevenm
inutes and thirty feconds, which isthe
exadt lengthofeach planetaryhour thatday; andin the fam
eline inthe
third colum
n H
andfifty-twom
inutesthirty feconds, whichisthe length
of theplanetaryhours that night. B
ythe fam
erule the length ofthe
planetaryhours m
aybeeafily found in this table, every dayandnight
through theyear. Thelengthoftim
e betw
eentherilingandfetting of
the Sun m
ayalw
ays befoundin the Ephemeris. This tableis calcu­
latedwithin thirty-minutes of the Sun’sreal tim
e every day, whichis
fufT
icientlynearforall thepurpofes required.
TABLE to reducethe M otion of the P l a n e t s toany Hour of the
Diurnal
Motion
One Hour’s
Motion.
Diurnal
Motion One Hour’s
Motion.
Diurnal
Motion
One Hour’s
Motion.
D.or D. M . a D.or D. M . S. D.or D. M. S.
M. M. s . T. M . M. S. T. M . M. S. T .
1 O 2 3° 22 O 55 O 43 1 47 3 °
2 O 5 0 23 O 57 3° 44 I 5° 0
3 0 7 3o 24 1 0 0 45 I 52 3°
4 0 10 0 25 I 2 3° 46 1 55 0
5 0 12 3 o z6 1 5 0 47 1 57 3°
6 0 15 c 27 I 7 30 48 2 0 0
7 0 17 30 28 1 10 0 49 2 2 3°
8 0 20 0 29 I 12 30 5° 2 5 0
9 0 22 30 3° 1 *5 0 5 i 2 7 3°
10 p 25 c 31 I 17 30 52 2 10 0
11 0 27 3° 32 1 20 0 53 2 12 3°
12 0 3° 0 33 I 22 p 3° 54 2 15 0
*3 0 32 30 34 I 25 0 55 2 17 3 °
14 0 35 0 35 1 27 3 ° 56 2 20 0
0 37 3° 36 1 3° 0 57 2 22 30
16 0 40 0 37 I 32 3° 58 2 25 0
*7 0 42 3° 38 I 35 0 59 2 27 3 o
18 0 45 0 39 1 37 3° 60 2 3° 0
19 0 47 3° 40 I 40 0 61 2 32 3°
2 0 0 50 0 41 1 42 3 ° 6 2 2 35 0
21 0- 52 30 42 1 45 0 6 3 2 37 30
To
Original from
m c i a / v n D L ' m i n i 1r - 1 i o o a o v
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y / 177
To find the true place of each planet, at any hour when we have occa-
fion to ereft a figure, it only requires to turn to the Ephemeris for the pla­
nets’ places at noon ; thofe being found, note how many degrees or mi­
nutes they move in the zodiac by twelve o’clock the next day, or from
noon the preceding day; and then, by the help of the foregoing table, it
will be feen how many degrees, minutes, or feconds, they move in an
hour. For example, fuppofe a planet moves one degree in twenty-four
hours, how far does it move in one hour ? At the top of the firft column
is the figure 1, and in the fame line of the fecond column is 2 minutes
and 30 feconds; which (hews, that, if a planet be twenty-four hours in
moving one degree, it then moves at the rate of two minutes and 30
feconds in an hour. Or fuppofe a planet only moves two minutes in
twenty-four hours ; look into the firft column of the table f the figure 2,
oppolite, in the fecond column, (land 5 feconds, which fhews that, if a
planet moves two minutes in twenty-four hours, it then only moves five
feconds in an hour. Again, if a planet’s diurnal motion be thirteen mi­
nutes, what is its hourly motion? Look into the firft column for 13,
and oppofiteis32, 30; which indicates, that, if a planet moves thirteen
minutes in twenty-four hours, it moves thirty-two feconds and thirty
thirds in an hour. The fame rules hold good for the motions of all the
planets ; it muft however be carefully obferved, that, if the diurnal mo­
tion of any planet be in degrees, then you muft enter the firft column of
the table under the denomination of degrees, and the fecond column
with minutes and feconds; but, if the diurnal motion of the planet be
only in minutes, then you muft»begin to reckon in the firft column only
with minutes and in the fecond column with feconds and thirds.
This is indicated by the initial letters placed over each column, which
fignify degrees or minutes in the firft column, and, in the fecond,degrees
and minutes, minutes and feconds, feconds and thirds. Then fuppofea
planet moves one degree and thirteen minutes in twenty-four hours, how
far does it move in an hour ? Refer to the table, and fay.
One degree in 24 hours is 2 min. 30 fee. o thirds per hour.
Thirteen min. in 24 hours is o min. 32 fee. 30 thirds.
Anfwer 3 2 30
And thus any quantity of a planet’s diurnal motion may be reduced to
time in the fame manner.
But as no figure can be eredted without the help of an Ephemeris, and
tables to {hew the Sun’s place in each of the twelve figns, unlcfs by en­
tering into long and tedious calculations, I fhall therefore infert in this
place the two pages of W hite’s Ephemeris for June 1784, and the tables
above-mentioned, with an explanation of the whole*
(CO -
Digitized by Goc gle Original from
M m * / v n o t ' D i i m 1r 1 i b b a b v
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
178
( C O P Y.)
W H I T E ’ S E P H E M E R I S , for June 1784.
__________ T u n e hath X X X D a y s.
T h e L u N A T i o N s .
F u ll m oon the 3d day, a t 34 m inutes p aft 4 aftern o o n .
L a ft q u arter the 10th d ay , at 28 m inutes paft 8 m o rn in g .
N e w m oon the 17th day, a t 6 m inutes paft 6 evening.
F irft q u arter the 23th day, a t 33 m inutes paft 10 a t n ig h t.
M . S
D . 1
undays and other
'em arkable days
G
rifes
O
fets d
O ’s
leclin. d
D 's d
eclin. &
[ rifes
£ fets {
<Z
ou th ;
C lo ck H
ifter G ||
T \ V h it-T uefday iS icom 8 8 :&2n 11 2:o s 7 111152 10 a i7 2 3 1
2 I^m ber W e e k 3 5 1 8 9312 19 >14 i S 2 14 11 15 2 22 I
3 5 ° 8 10:&2 26 >17 2 1
I rifes m orn 2 12 1
1 4 *C. G e o . I II . b o rn 3 4 9
8 1 1 :** 3 3 -i8 31to a 3 0 16 2 2 I
\ I’r .E rn .A u g .b o m 3 4 9
8 n 2
s2 4 0 :*7 7 1
io 49 1 21 I _ 5 2 I
h r ' frin ity S unday 3
48 8 12 ;22 46 '24 18 1
i i 22 2 25 I 4 1 II
1 7 3 4 7 8 1 3
22 51 >9 5 5 i[I 46 3 2 5
I 3 ° I)
1 8 3 4 7
8 13
2 2 57 14 *4 m orn 4 2o I 19 1
1 9 <
D xford T . begins 3
46 8 23 2 8 11 0 4 1 10 I 7 1
11 IO
Prs. A m elia b orn 3
46 8 * 4
23 6 1 41 0 18 6 12 0 5 6 1
II 11
S t. B arnabas 3 4 5 ; 8 x 5
23 10 4 n 4 7 © 29 6 46 0> 4 4 1
II *2 3 4 5 ; 8 15 23 14 10 55 0 4 1 7 3 2 0
' 31 I
|l c 1 S u n d .aft . T rin . 3 4 4
8 16 2 3 *7 16 28' 0 5 5
8 19 c1 , 9 I
11 14. 3 4 4 * 8 16 23 20 21 9 1 1 11 9 8 c> 6 I
ll *
I) 15 3 4 4
8 16 23 22 24 46I * 3 r 9 59 obef. 6 1
1 16 3 4 3
8 * 7
23 24 27 5 2 2 ro 51 c> 1 9 1
1 * 7 S t. A lban 3 4 3
8 *7
23 26 28 1 <T fets U 45 c> 3 2 1
1 lS
3 4 3
8 *7
23 27 2 7 3 2 9 a 3 4
0238 0 4 5 H
1 IQ 3 4 3
8 17
23 28 2S 4 4 io 4 1 29 0 58 ||
c 2 S un. aft. T rin . 3 4 3
8 17
23 28 22 47 10 26 2 17 ■ 11 y
1 21 L ,ongeft day 3 4 3
8 17
23 28 18 5 4 10 44 3 2 1i 25 1
1 22 3 4 3
8 *7
23 2 8 14 19 10 57 3 4 S 1
1 37 1
It 23 3 4 3
8 17 * 3 2 7 9 1* I I 8 4 2 5 ii 50 1
1 24 S t. Jo h n B aptift 3 4 3
8 17 23 25 3 4 3 11 19 5 5 2 3
1 2 5
3 4 3
8 *7 2 3 2 4 1 S S 7 11 28 5 4 4 • 5
I 16 |
I 26 3 4 4
8 l6; 23 22 7 40 11 38 6 2(i :2 28 I
1 C 2 Sund. aft. T rin .• 3 4 4
8 l6,23 i 9 13 14 11 52 7 lc> l2 * 41 I
1 28 3 4 4
8 l6i 2 3 ifi 18 24. m orn 7 55) ‘2 53
I 2 9
S t.P eter 3 4 5
8 *5 2 3 >3; a* 51 0 s 8 52I ■
3 5
1 3 0
T rin ity term end! 4 5
8 *5: 2 3 S|2 6 c) 0 351 9 5 1
1
[ •3 16
?
1 *-< D a y L engtl1 H elioc H elioc H elioc H elioc: H elio c H elioc h
1 W increaf. o f day lo n g fr long If long £ lo n g © 1long $\ lo n g 5 rifes |
1 I 8 3 3 r I 9 t f 3 > 2 5 ;w 2lt i 3 a 4 2; n * 3 «
D26 V 2 - 1 9 ^ 4 6 10 a53
1 7
8 42 16 2(, * 9 43125 53116 2 1 1 7 ii4 6 a 2 6 X 3 3 10 28
1 13
8 46 16 3<519 53(26 2 f; i s 59(22 5:B tS 39 2 3 3 10 3
1 19
8 50 16 3^120 4
.2 6 5 /f 21 58,28 4:225 17 10 1 9 38
1 odec 2 16 3:I 20 *5
2(>124 15I 4 v s 1
5 4 n 56I28 15
9 12
Digitized by Goodie
Original from
m ew v n u v di im \r i ID D A D V
179
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
i
( C O P Y.)
W H I T E ’ S E P H E M . E R I S , for J u n e 1 7 8 4 .
J u n e .
0 Day-lig. Day-lig. Dura. PI. D’s h S U ’s ’s ? ’s S ’s
begins ends twilig. node. latit. latit. latit. latit. latit.
I 4 X38 0 n 6 0 59 1n 19 1 s 8 OS22
7 4 19 O 6 I I 1 18 0 5 6 2 3
13 All day- light 4 O O 6 1 3 1 x7 0 43 3 36
'9 3 4 ' O 5 I 5 1 16 0 29 4 27
25 3 22 O 4 1 6 1 *5 0 4 29
» ’s D’s I? s U ’s X*s ? ’s S ’s
C
O
V
)
U s
longitude long. latit. long.
_
long. long. long. long.
I m i 3° 4 1211143 4S40 23 z 3 6 X5 9 2o2?5 x22 « 57 27X 2/
2 12 27 27 26 36 4 59 23K 2i 7 3 21 28 24 10 27 2 3
3 x3 24 5° 10X5 l 4 59 23 18 7 8J22 5 H 2 3 27 15
4 *4 22 12 25 22 4 40 23 '5 7 1222 4 2 z6 36 27 2
5 15 >9 33 IoVf 2 4 3 23 12 7 I6U3 x9 49 26 44
c 16 16 S3 24 44 3 10 23 9 7 1923 5^29 226 24
7 x7 x4 *3 9~2I 2 4 23 6 7 *3 *4 , 33 on 15 26 1
8 18 11 32 23 48 0 5 »z 3 3 7 26 2S ic 1 282S 35
9 19 * 8 5 1 8X 2 0 n 2 5 23 0 7 29 !25 47 2 4 125 6
lo 20 6 9 22 I 1 37 22 56 7 33 26 24 3 53 2+
■ 34
II 21 3 27 5V46 2 43 22 53 7 36'27 /<* 5 24*U*i
12 22 0 45 I? I7 3 3»22 5° 7 39 2Z 3? 6 2o 23 2 7
c 22 58 3 2 » 3 s 4 21 22 47 7 4 X28 16 7 34 22 54
14 2 3 S3 2! 15 40 4 49 22 43 7 43
28 53 8 47 22 21
13 24 S* 38 28 33 5 222 40 7 45 29 JO lb O
21 48
16 *5 49 55 xxxxx4 4 59 22 3<
> 7 47 oSb 8'i 1
x4 21 I5
x7
26 47 11 23 44 4 42 22 33 7 49
O 4512 27 20 45
18 2 7 44 27 6 2 4 13 22 29 7 5 1 1 22 x3 40 2 0 18
19
28 4« 43 18 9 3 3 2 22 2S 7 53
2 Ox4 54 '9 S3'
C 29 38 58 o S l 7 2 42)22 21 7 54 2 37 16 7 19 3 i
21 250 36 13
11 58 I 45 22 17 7 55 3 x4 x7 2o x9 x3
22 1 33 27 23 46 O 4 4 2 2 x 3 7 56 3 52 18 3 3
19 0
2 3 2 30 4 1 5 33 OS 1922 8 7 56 4 29 x9 47 t8 52
24 3 l 7 54 x7 2 5 I 22 22 4 7 57 5 6 2l O18 47
23 4 *5 7 29 28 2 22 22 O 7 57 5 44 2 2 14(18D45
2 6 5 '22 19 11=2=45 3 I7 21 56 7 RS7 6 21 *3 27)18 51
C 6 19 3 ' 24 23 4 4 ,zr 5 2 7 57 6 58 z4 40J19 0
28 7 l6 42 711125 4 4°|3 * 47 7 57 7 3&25 54 '9 X
2
29 8 13 53 20 5s S 2 21 43 7 56 8 x3 27 7 19 30
30 9 it 3 4 X53 5 7 21 39 7 56 8 5° 28 21 x9 54
a
»< U X ? 5 3?’s U ’s X’s S S ’s
C
O rifes fets rifes fets declin. declin. declin. declin. declin.
I 00142 I1 2 5 3m 9 9a 22 21 s 20 9 SS3 23 n 9 i7n 26 23 n 5
7 O 20 IO Si 3 1 8 40 21 23 9 45 22 3 2 '9 x9 21 2l
>3 11 a S3 lo 36 2 5 7 riles 21 2 7 9 4 o 21 48 2o 5 3 l»9 4 X
*9 11 29 10 z 3 2 54 3m34 21 3 1 9 3720 59 22 8,18 39
2 5 11 4 10 7 2 57 3 6 21 36 9 38 2p 4 2 3 o'18 32
No. 9, S S
Digitized by G o t ' S l e
Original from
h i n u v n c k 1 D i i m 1r 1 i b d a b v
i 8o A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Of Houfes
A T A B L E
calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
Sol in Aries•
A.
D.
•
•
Time
from Noon.
H . M.
10
Houfe.
r
11
Houfe.
D 8 M
12
Houfe.
D n M
Afcendant
25
D. M.
2 1
Houfe.
D a M
3
Houfe.
D mM
o O O O 0 8 40 22 27 26 42 12 49 2 33
o 55 O 4 1 9 46 23 21 27 23 13 20 3 22
I 50 O 7 2 10 52 24 x5 28 2 14 4 4 12
2 45 O 11 - 3 11 58 25 9 28 42 14 48 5 2
3 40 O 15 4 13 3 26 2 29 21 *5 31 5 52
4 35 O 18 5 14 8 26 54 0 a I 16 13 6 42
5 30 O 22 6 x5 12 27 46 0 40 16 57 7 3 1
6 25 O 26 7 16 16 28 38 1 20 *7 38 8 21
7 21 O 29 8 J7 19 29 29 2 0 18 20 9 11
8 l6 O 3^ - 9 18 22 O2
2
i2C 2 39 19 3 10 2
V * °: 10 19 25 I IC 3 19 19 46 10 52
io. 0 0 4 ° 11 20 28 I 59 . 3 59 20 29 11 43
u 2 0 44 12 21 3 i 2 49 4 38 21 13 12 33
i i 57 0 48 *3 22 34 3 38 5 J7 21 56 i3 24
12 53 0 51 H 23 37 4 27 5 57 22 40 14 15
X3 48 0 55 15 24 40 5 16 6 36 23 23 15 6
14 44 0 59 16 25 42 6 5 7 15 24 7 15 57
15 40 1 3 *7 26 44 6 53 7 55 24 5° 16 48
16 3 1 1 6 18 27 46, 7 41 8 35 2 5 34 *7 40
17 35 1 10 19 28 47 8 3° 9 14 26 18 18 3 1
18 27 1 14 20 29 48 9 18 9 53 27 2 19 22
19 23 1 18 21 0 n 49 10 6 10 34 27 46 20 14
20 20 1 21 22 I 50 10 55 11 12 28 3° 21 5
21 16 1 25 23 2 5° 11 43 11 52 29 14 21 57
22 12 1 29 24 3 5 i 12 3 1 12 32 29 58 22 49
23 9 1 33 25 4 5 i 13 19 *3 12 Ot%42 23 41
24 6 1 36 26 , 5
✓ 5° *4 8 13 52 1 27 24 33
25 2 1 40 27 6 50 14 57 14 34 2 12 25 25
'25 59 - 1 44 28 7 49 15 43 15 24 2 57 26 18
126 57 1 48 29 8 48 16 3 o *5 5 i 3 42 27 HI
27 54 1 52 3 ° 9 47 17 16 16 3 i 4 28 28 4
A1
Digitized by G o v a l e O
rigirval from
M P A / v n D I ID i l f ' i i n n a n \ y
A T A B L E
Of Houfcs calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
double Horary Times.
Sol in Taurus.
A. R.
D .M .
Time
From Noon
H . M.
10 I 11
Houfe. Houfe.
a jD n M
12
Houfe.
D esM
Afcendant
a
D. M.
1
2
Houfe.
D«kM
3
Houfe.
D »tM
27 54 I 5 2 0 9 47 17 16 16 3 i 4 28i 28 4
28 5 1 1 55 1 10 45 18 3 17 11 5 *3 ; 28 57
29 49 1 59 2 11 43 18 51 *7 s k i 5 59 : 29 5°
3° 46 2 3 3 12 41 19 39 18 3 1 6 44 0 ^ 43
31 44 2 7 4 13 38 20 26 *9 12 7 29
.
1
1 37
32 42 2 1I 5 H 35 21 13 19 52 8 J4 2 3 1
33 40 2 *5 6 *5 32 22
1 0 20 32 9 0 3 25
34 39 2 *9 7 16 29 22 47 21 *3 9 47 4 19
135 37 2 2 3 8 *7 25 ' 23 34 21 54 10 34 5 *3
36 3 6 2 26 9 18 2 1 24 21 22 35 11 21 6 7
37 35 2 30 lo *9 *7 25 7 23 m 6 12 8 7 1
138 34 2 34 U 20 13 25 53 23 57 12 55 7 55
39 33 2 38 12 21 10 26 39 24 38 *3 42 8 49
40 32 2 42 J3 22 7 27 26 25 *9 l 4 3 ° 9 43
4 1 3 1 2 46 *4 23 4 28 12 26 0 15 17 10 37
42 3 1 2 5° *5 24 O 28
5?
26 42 16 4 11 32
43 3 1 2 54 16 24 56 29 46 27 24 16 52 12 27
•44 3i 2 58 *7 25 5o
0&33 28 6 17 40 13 22
[45 3 i 3 2 18 26 48 1 20 28
47 18 28 14 17
A 6 32 3 6 ' 1 *9 27 45 2 7 29 30 J9 l 6 l1 15 13
l4I 33 3 10 20 28 42 2 54 oi%j3 20 4 16 9
48 33 3 M 21 29 39 3 41 0 55 20 52 17
6
1
49 34 3 18 22 O25135 4 29 i 37 21 40 ! 18 2
5° 35 3 22 23 I 3 ° 5 i i 2 20 22 28 18 57
!5 ‘ 3 6 3 26 24 2 26 6 6 3 2 23
1
l l
.
19 52
5 2 38 3 3 1 25 3 21 6
. 55 3 46 24 6|! 20 48
153 40 3 35 , 26 4 17, 7 44 4 29 24 55 1 21 44
54 42 3 39 27 5 12 8
i
33 5 12 2 5 45 22 40
;55 44 3 43 28 6 8i 9 21 5 55 26 34 23 36
,56 40 3 47 29 7 3
58
' 10 9 6 39 27 24 24 32
\S7 47 3 51 30 7 1 10 58 7 22 28 h 25 29
A ,
A T A B L E
O f Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
double Horary Times.
Sol in Gemini..
A. R.
D. M .
Time
From Noon
H . M.
10
Houfe
n
n
Houfe
D 25 M
12
Houfe
D a M
Afcendant
D M
2
Houfe
D«rM
3
Houfe
D f iMf
t
57 48
58 51
59 54
60 57
02 O
6
J 3
64 6
6 5 9
66 13
67 i 7
68 21
69 25
70 29
I 1 33
72 38
73 43
74 47
75 52
76 57
78 2
79 7
80 12
81 17
82 22
83 27
84 33
85 38
86 43
87 48
88 54
90 O
3 51
3 55
4 0
4 4
4 8
4 12
4 16
4 21
4 2 5
4 29
4 33
4 38 ,
4 42
4 46
4 V 5 1
4 55
4 59
5 3
5 8
5 12
5 16
5 2 i
5 25
5 29
5 34
5 38
5 43
5 47
5 51
6 56
6 0
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
• J3
H
15
16
17
18
J9
20
- 21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
7 58
8 54
9 49
10 45
11 41
12 38
!3 34
*4 3°
15 26
16 22
17 18
18 14
19 10
20 7
21 3
22 0
22 56
23 52
24 47
25 43
26 39
t i l l
29 27
0 &23
1 19
2 J5
3 12
4 9
5 6
10 58
n 46
12 35
13 23
14 12
15 1
r5 5 1
16 40
17 30
18 19
19 9
*9 58
20 48
21 38
22 28
23 19
24 9
25 00
25 5 1
26 42
27 33
28 24
29 14
one 5
0 c6
1 48
2 40
3 32
4 23
5 14
6 4
7 22
8 6
8 co
9 34
10 18
11 *3
11 47
12 31
13 16
*4 1
14 46
*5 3 1
16 16
17 1
J7 46
18 32
!9 17
20 4
20 49
21 .55
22 20
23 6 .
23 5 r
24 37
25 23
20 9
26.j *5
27 41
28 27
29 13
3° 0
28 14
29 4
29 55
0 £
=46 ,
1 36
2 27
3 18
4 9
5 0
5 5 i
6 42
7 33
8 24
9 15
10 6
10 57
n 49
12 41
T3 32
r4 24
l{
16 7
t6 58
J7 50
18 42
*9 33
20 2c
21 17
22 9
23 1
23 53
25 29
26 25
27 21
28 18
29 1S
0 »n 12
1 9
2 6
3 3
4 0
4 57
5 54
6 5 i
7 48
8 45
9 4 2
»o 39
11 36
12 33
*3 3 o
14 27
15 23
16 20
17 17
18 14
19 11
20 8
21 5
22 2
22 59
23 56
A
Sol in Cancer.
„ I Time
* jFrom Noon
D. M .j H . M.
1 10
. Houfe
25
11
. Houfe.
D a M
1 12
iHoufe.
D «rM
Alcendan
D. M
t 2
Houfe,
. D IV
. Houfe.
ID triM
9° 0! 6
I O O 6 3 6 li 0 0 23 53|2 3 56
9 1 5 6 4 I 7 0 6 5<
5 0 47 24 45.24 53
02 11; 6 9 2 7 5 8: 7 4 *
? 1 33 25 37,25 5°
93 1
1
&
i 6 *3 3 8 55| 8 41[ 2 *9 26 zi126 47
94 2 z\ 6 J7 4 9 52j 9 33! 3.. 5 27 2C
)27 44
95 27| 6 22 5 10 48 10 2j: 3 5 1 28 11 28 40
96 326 26 6 i r 45,11 *7 4 37 29 2 29 36
97 3 8, 6 31 7 12 42,12 9 5 23 29 53 0 * 33
1 9 8 43 6 35 8 *3 3973 2 6 9 0 m.44 1 291
90 48! 6 39 9 14 3613 54 6 55 1 36 2 25,
100 53: 6 44 10 15 33! *4 46 7 4° 2 26 3 21
to l 58 6 4 8 11 16 3C
►
I5 37 8 26 3 17 4 17
103 3 6 52 12 n 27 16 28 9 12 4 8 5 12
104 8 6 57 l 3 18 24 17 20 9 57 4 59 6 8:
105 13 ' 7 1 H 19 21 t8 12 10 43 5 50 7 4
106 17! 7 5 15 20 18 19 4 11 28 6 4 1 8 0
107 22! 7 9 16 21 *5 *9 55 12 14 7 3 1 8 56
108 26 7 14 l 7 22 12 20 46 12 59 8 22 9 53
109 31 7 18 18 23 9 21 37 J3 45 9 l 3 JO 5°
n o 35 7 22 l 9 24 6 22 28 14 3° 10 3 11 46
i n 39 7 27 20 25 3 ?3 *9 J5 14 to 53 12 42
112 43 7 3 i 21 26 0 24 9 *5 59 1
11 42 *3 38
*13 47! 7 35 22 26 57 25 0 16 44 ■
12 3 i 14 34
114 5 1 7 39 23 27 54 25 5 i *7 29 ]
t3 • 20 ;[5 30
115 54 7 44 24 :28 5jf 26 41 18 14 :14 9316 26
116 57 7 48 25 5
29 48 27 32 18 ,5 8 :t4 58 1
■1 22
118 1 7 52 26 o «*45 28 23 i 9 42 ir5 47 1
18 18
” 9 ^ 7 56 27 1 42 29 14 20 26 16 361 9
14l
120 71 8 0 28 2 39 0 * 4 21 10 i•7 ‘
•252IO
IO
121 i s 5 29 3 35 0 55 21 54 1
.8 1421
5
122 2 8 9 30 4 3 2 1 46 22 38 19 2|22 i|
No. 9>
• T t
L
^
u
ii
id
i
u
,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
.
e
u
/
ii
ll
|
j
.
/
/
w
w
w
.
i
i
ci
u
ii
l
i
u
s
l
.
u
i
y
/
d
(
.
L
e
i
a
_
u
a
c
#
j
j
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
e
Sol in Leo.
A. R.
D. M.
'1 ime
From Noon.
H . M.
10
Houfe.
A
it
Houfe.
D «iM
12
Houfe.
D * M
Alcendant
D. M.
2
Houfe.
D «iM
3
Houfe.
D / M
122 12 8 9 0 4 32 1 46 22 38 T9 2 22 1
123 *4 8 13 1 5 28 2 36 23 22 J9 5 i 22 57
124 16 8 *7 2 6 24 3 26 24 5 20 40 23 53
125 18 8 21 3 7 20 4 *5 24 48 21 28 24 49
126 20 8 25 4 8 16 5 5 25 32 22 l 7 25 45
127 22 8 29 . 5 9 12 5 54 26 16 23 6 26 40
128 24 8 34 6 10 8 6 43 26 58 23 54 27 35
129 25 8 38 7 11 4 7 32 27 41 24 42 28 3 '
13° 26 8 42 8 12 0 8 20 28 23 25 3° 29 27
131 28 8 46 9 12 56 9 8 29 6 26 18 0 13*22
132 2? 8 50 10 '3 5o 9 57 29 4«# 27. 6 I 18
i 33 28 8 54 11 l 4 48 10 45 01430 27 54 2 H
134 29 8 58 12 *5 43 11 33 1 13 28 41 3 10
135 29 9 2 *3 16 38 12 21 1 55 29 28 4 7
136 29 9 6 *7 33ix3 9 2 . 36 0 * *5 5 3
137 29 9 10 *5 18 28 *3 57 3 18 1 2 5 59
138 29 9 14 16 *9 23 14 44 4 0 1 48 6 55
139 28 9 18 l 7 20 18 15 3 i 4 4 1 2 35 7 52
140 28 9 22 18 21 12 16 18 5 22 3 21 8 49
141 27 9 26 *9 22 6 *7 6 6 4 4 8 9 46
142 26 9 3 ° 20 23 0 '7 53 6 ■45 4 55 10 42
'43 25 9 34 21 23 54 18 40 7 26 5 42 11 39
144 23 9 38 22 24 48 *9 26 8 6 6 28 12 35
'45 22 9 41 23 25 42 20 11 8 47 7 H J3 3 1
146 20 9 45 24 26 35 20 57 9 28 8 0 H 28
147 18 9 49 25 27 29 21 43 10 8 8 47 15 25
148 16 9 53 26 28 23 22 30 10 48 9 34 16 23
'49 H 9 57 27 29 *7 23 16 11 29 10 22 17 21
' 5° 11 10 1 28 O* 10 24 2 12 9 11 9 18 18
15 1 9 10 5 29 1 3 24 47 12 5° 11 56 # 16
'52 6 10 8 30 1 56 25 32 *3 3° 12 44 *5
A
Digitized bV
Got.>sle Original from
V ( ^ D I
fDI ID I In I I D D A D V
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
l
e
-
u
i
y
iu
^
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
w
w
v
v
.
i
io
l
i
iil
i
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/c
n
_
«
_
t;b
b
_
u
b
t:-ff-p
u
-y
u
u
y
ie
A T A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
Sol in Virgo.
A.
D.
R.
M.
Time
From Noon.
H. M.
IO
Houfe.
11
Houfe.
D ^ M
12
Houfe.
D ^ M
Afcendant
"I
D. M.
2
Houfe.
D * M
3
Houfe.
D M
152 6 10 8 0 1 56 25 3 2 *3 3° 12 44 20 35
*53 3 IO 12 1 2 49 26 l 7 14 9 13 3 i 21 *3
r54 O IO l6 2 3 42,27 2 H 49 H 19 22 11
x54 57 IO 20 3 4 35 27 47 *5 29 *5 6 23 10
•55 54 IO 24 4 5 27 28 3 2 16 9 '*5 54 24 9
156 5 1 IO 27 5 6 J9 29 *7 16 48 16 4 * 25 9
!57 48 10 3 1 6 7 11 0 *n 2 17 28 17 29 26 10
l S* 45 IO 35 7 8 3 0 46 18 9 18 *7 27 11
*59 4 i 10 39 8 8 54 1 3 ° 18 48 19 5 28 11
160 37 IO 42 9 9 46 2 14 *9 27 19 ^ 3 29 11
161 33 10 46 10 10 38 2 58 20 6 20 41 O 12
162 29 IO 50 11 11 29 3 42 20 48 21 29 1 *3
163 25 IO 54 12 12 20 4 26 21 26 22 *7 2 14
164 21 IO 57 *3 13 12 5 10 22 5 23 5 3 *5
l6 5 *7 II 1 14 14 3 5 54 22 45 23 53 4 16
166 12 II 5 r5 14 55 6 37 23 24 M 41 5 18
167 8 11 9 16 15 45 7 21 24 4 25 30 6 *9
168 3 11 12 17 16 36 8 4 24 43 26 19 7 21
168 59 II 16 18 17
r i
- 8 47 *5 23 27 9 8 23
169 54 11 20 19 18 J7 9 30 26 2
2Z 59 9 26
170 49 11 23 20 19 7 10 12 26 4 1 28 5° 10 30
171 45 11 27 21 i9 57 10 55 27 22 29 41 11 34
172 40 11 3 1 22 20 48 11 39 28 1 o y 32 12 37
173 35 11 34 2 3 21
3o
12 22 28 40 1 22 »3 4 1
174 3° 11 3 8 24 22 28 *3 5 29 20 2 *4*4 45
*75 2 5 11 42 25 23 18 *3 47 29 59 3 6 *5 5°
176 20 11 45 26 24 8 *4 29 0 * 3 9 3 58 16 56
177 *5 11 49 27 24 58 *5 11 1 19 4 5 1 18 2
178 10 11 53 28 25 48 15 54 2 2 5 44 *9 8
179 5 11 56 29 26 38 16 37 2 39 6 S8 20 H
180 0 12 0 3 o I27 28 17
• / 21 3 l 9 7 3 2 21 21
• 7
A
Digitized by G o ^ ^ l e
Original from
m c \a/ v n m ^ di iqi 1r i i d d a d v
l
a
m
,
v
j
u
u
y
i
t
r
-
u
i
y
i
l
u
c
u
/
r
i
l
l
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
l
a
l
i
ii
l
i
u
s
l
.
u
i
y
/
a
»
.
(
.
c
a
a
_
u
s
c
#
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
A T A B L E
OfHoufes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
double Horary Times,
bol in Libra.
A. R. I
D. M.
Time
From Noon.
H . M.
10
Houfe.
iC
s
Houfe.
D ^ M |
12
Houle.
DrnM
Alcendant
t
D. M.
2
Houfe.
D * M
r 3
Houfe.
D r M
180 0 12 0 0 27 28I17 21 3 19 7 3 2 21 21
180 55 12 4 1 28 1818 4 3 59 8 27 22 27
181 5° 12 7 2 29 8 18 46 4 40 6 22 23 33
182 45 12 11 3 29 56l*9 29 5 20 10 J7 24 40
183 40 12 *5 4 °«145 20 11 6 2 11 12 25 48
184 35 12 18 5 1 34 20 54 6 43 12 8 26 57
*85 30 12 22 6 2 24 21 37 7 24 *3 5 28 6
186 25 12 26 7 3 13 22 20 8 5 H 129 16
187 20 12 29 8 4 2 23 4 8 46 x4 57 OX25
188 15 12 33 9 4 52 23 47 9 28 15 53 I 35
189 11 12 37 10 5 41 24 3 1 10 10 16 5 i 2 45
190 6 12 40 n 6 3° 25 *5 10 52 !7 5C 3 55
191 1 12 44 12 7 x9 25 59 11 35 18 50 5 6
191 57' 12 48 13 8 8 26 42 12 18 x9 5 i 6 J7
192 52 12 5 i H .8 57 27 26 12 59 20 53 7 28
m 48 12 55 i 5 9 46 28 10 13 43 21 56 8 40
194 43 12 59 16 10 35 28 53 H 26 23 0 9 52
195 39 13 3 17 M 24 29 37 x5 10 24 5 11 4
196 35 13 6 18 12 *4 0 t 20 J5 54 25 11 12 *7
*97 3 1 13 10 19 13 2 1 4
48
, 16 39 26 l8 lx3 30
198 27 *3 14 20 13 5 1 1
17 23 27 2614 43
199 23 13 18 21 H 41 2 32 18 8 28 35 *5 56
200 x9 13 21 22 *5 30 3 16 18 54 29 45 *7 10
201 *5 *3 25 23 16 x9 4 1 l 9 39 0 ^755 18 24
202 12 13 29 24 *7 9 4 4 6 20 26 2 6 19 39
203 9 13 33 25 *7 58 5 3 1 21 H 3 *7 20 54
204 6 x3 36 26 18 . 48 6 16 22 1 4 29 22 10
205 3 13 40 27 19 37 7 1 22 49 5 42 23 26
206 0 *3 44 28 20 26 7 46 23 37 6 56 24 42
206 57 J3 48 29 21 16 8 32 24 26 8 1025 57
207 54 *3 52 30 22 6 9 18 25 15 9 25 27 *3
A
\
Otgttized by G o ^ ' o l e
Original from
m e \ a 1v n qv d i m i 1
r i i d d a d v
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
v
j
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
'
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
io
n
n
u
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/d
n
-
t
:
b
b
_
u
b
t
:
-
w
-
|ju
-
y
u
u
y
it
;
OF A S T R O L O G Y 187
I A T A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
double Horary Times.
Sol in Scorpio.
A. R.
D. M.
Time
From Noon.
H . M .
IO
Houfe.
n
11
Houfe.
D m
,M
12
Houfe.
D t M
Alcendant
t
D. M.
2
Houfe.
D ~ M
3
Houfe.
D x M
207 54 *3 52 0 22 6 9 18 M ' 15 9 25 27 13
208 5 1 J3 55 1 22 56 IO 5 20
26
5 10 42 28 3°
209 49 »3 59 2 23 46 10 52 56 12 0 29 46
210 46 H 3 3 24 37 11 39 27 47 J3 20 1 V■ 2
211 44 H 7 4 25 28 1Z
1 25 28 39 '5
/ 41 2 18
212 42 H 11 5 26 19*3 12, 29 30 16 4 3 35
213 40 >4 15 6 27 1o'13 59 0 # 2 4 *7
0
18 4
/ 52
214 39 *4 19 7 28 014 47 1 I I 18 53 6 iO
()
2 I5 37 J4 22 8 28 5° 45 3<
> 2 13 20 19 , 7 28
216 36 H 26 9 29 4O IO 26 3 IO 21 47 8 47
217 35 *4 3° IO 0 / 3 1 17 >2 4 6 23 16
/
10 5
218 34 14 34 11 1 22 18 8 5 3 24 46 11 24
219 33 H 38 12 2 13 19 0 6 1 26 17 12 42
220 32 *4 42 13 , 3 4 19 5 1 7 0 27 49 ‘4 0
r\
221 3 1 *4 46 J4 3 55 20 42 8 0 29 20 15 18
222 3 1 x4 5° 15 4 47 21 34 9 2 0 x 5 0 16 35
223 3 1 *4 54 16 5 38 22 25 10 6 2 13 17 53
224 3 1 H 58 *7 6 29 23 *7 11 9 4 6 19 11
225 3 * 15 2 18 7 21 24 9 12 14 5 42 2° 29
226 32 15 6 19 8 J3 25 2 J3 21 7 19 21 48
227 33 15 10 20 9 6 25 55 14 29 8 57 23 6
228 33 15 14 21 9 58 26 49 15 37 10 37 24 24
229 34 15 18 22 10 5 1 27 44 16 48
r\ 13 18 25 42
230 35 15 22 23 11 45 28 39 *7 58 14 0 27 Q
231 36 15 26 24 12 40 29 35 19 11 15 42 28 17
232 3 8 *5 3 1 25 13 33 0 ^ 3 2 20 27 »7 24
O29 35
233 40 15 35 26 •4 28 I 29 21 43 19 8 O 8 52
234 42 15 39 27 15 22 2 26 23 3 20 54 2
?
235 44 15 43 28 16 17 3 24 24 24 22
3J 3 2 0
236 46 x5 47 29 »7
12 4 23 25 47 24
_/
18 4 43
237 48 *5 5 » 3° 18 8 5 23 27 10 [20 5 5 0
No. 9.______________________ U u
Digitized by Google
Original from
RIEWkS V n R k ' D I I P I I r I I D P A R V
A T A B L E
OfHoufes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
__________ double Horary Times.
Sol in Sagittarius.
A. R.
D. M.
j
Time
From Noon.
H . M.
10
Houfe.
/
11
Houfe.
D x M
12
Houfe.
Afcendant
>
c
f
D. M.
Houfe.
D x M
3
Houfe.
D d M ;
237 48 15 5 1 0 18 8 5 23 27 10 26 5 6 0
23» *5 55 1 19 4 6 24 28 37 27 5 1 7 16
|239 54 16 0 '2 20 0 7 26 0 /*
v
* 6 29 3 8 8 S2
240 57 16 4 3 20 56 8 29 1 37 l r 26 9 48
242 0 16 8 4 21 52 9 32 3 11 3 15 11 4
l243
0
J 16 12 5 22 48 10 35 4 48 5 5 '12 20
i244 6 16 16 6 23 44 1i 3 8 6 27 6 5613 35
245 9 16 21 7 24 4 i 12 4 2 8 8 8 46 14 50
1246 13 16 25 8 25 3 8 J3 47 9 52 10 37|16 5
I247 17 16 29 9 26 35 14 53 11 40 12 27|! 7 20
•,248 21 16 33 10 27 33 16 0 13 3° 14 1618 34
249 25 16 38 11 28 3 ' J7 8 15 20 16 4 J9 48
250 29 16 42 12 29 3 ° 18 18 17 J9 *7 5 121 1
25 r 33 16 46 13 0 * 3 ° *9 28 »9 18 J9 37 22 33
252 38 16 5 1 14 1 29 20 39 21 20 21 21 23 25
253 43 16 55 15 2 28 21 5 i 23 3 ° 23 4 24 36
254 47 16 59 16 3 28 23 4 25 32 24 4825 47
j255 52 17 4 17 4 29 24 J9 27 44 26 3 i 26 57
|256 57 *7 8 18 5 3° 25 36 28 58 28 1428 8
258 2 *7 ] 1 19 6 41 26 55 2 K t7 29 5 7 29 19
259 7 17 16 20 7 33 28 »4 4 3 8 1 b 39 On 30
260 12 17 21 21 8 35 29 34 7 0 3 20 1 4 1
261 17 *7 25 22 9 37 0^"55 9 24 5 0 2 5 1
262 22 17 30 23 10 39 2 J7 11 53 6 3 8 4 1
263 27 >7 34 24 11 52 3 39 H 23 8 15 5 IC
264 33 x7 38 25 12 45 5 2 16 59 9 5 1 6 19
265 38 *7 43 26 *3 48 6 27 19 3° 11 27 7 27
266 43 *7 47 27 14 52 7 53 22 5 *3 2 8 34
267 48 17 5 1 28 J5 57 9 20 24 39 14 36 9 4c
268 54 O 56 29 17 210 49 27 20 16 9 10 46
270 0 18 0 3° 18 8 12 19\ 30 0 J7 0 11 5 1
Digitized by Google Original from
mc\a/ v n D ^ d 1mi 1r
Sol in Capricorn.
A.
D.
R.
M.
Time
From Noon
H . M.
1 IO
Houfe.
11
Houfe
D vs M
12
. Houfe.
D ^ M
Afcendan
D. M.
t 2
Houle
D » M
3
. Houfe.
D n M
27O 0 18 O O 18 S
112 191 0 0 17 41 11 5 *
27 r 6 l8 5 1 l 9 1
1!3 5C
> 2 37 19 1C
) 12
56
272 12 18 9 2 20 2C
>J5 23 5 19 20 38 14 2
-73 J7 18 13 3 21 261J16 57 7 55 22 5 J5 8
274 22 18 *7 4 22 34:18 3 2 10 29 23 3° 16 13
275 27 18 22 5 23 42 20 8 13 2 24 54 17 *7
276 33 18 26 6 24 5° 21 45 J5 37 26 17 18 20,1
*71 3«- 18 3° 7 25 59 23 22 18 7 27 4 » i9 22
278 43 18 35 8 27 9 25 c 20 35 29 4 20 24
279 4S 18 39 9 28 J9 26 39 2 3 0 0 ]
a 26 21 25
280 53 18 44 10 29 28 28 20 25 22 1 46 22 26
281 58 18 48 11 O"v
■
3 « 0 X 2 27 43 3 5 23 281
283 3 18 52 12 I 48 1 45 30 0 4, 23 24 30
284 8 18 57 13 2 59 3 28 2 « 16 5 39 25 31
285 13 19 1 14 4 IO 5 10 4 27 6 54 26 32
206 *7 19 5 *5 5 22 6 54 6 33 8
8i27 33
287 22 19 9- 16 6 34 8 39 8 39 9 20 28 33
288 27 19 J4. 17 ' 7 46 10 2 5 10 43 IO 3 i 29 32
289 31 19 ‘i8 18 8 59 12 12 12 42 11 41 O S
33
OI
290 35 19 22 19 10 12 '3 59 H 40 12 5° 1 29J
291 39 19 27 20 11 27 15 46 16 3 1 *3 58 2 27'
292 43 19 3$7 21 12 40 17 33 18 20 15 5 3 25
293 47 *9 35 22 ‘3 54 *9 21 20 5 16 11 4 23
294 5 1 19 39 2 3 *5 8 2r 10 21 5 2 *7 17 5 20
295 54 19 44 24 16 22 23 0 23 33 18 22 6 16
296 57 *9 48 25 *7 37 24 5° 25 13 *9 2 6 7 *3
298 c 19 52 26 18 53 26 39 26 49 20 2 9 8 9
299 3 19 59 27 20 10 28 26 28 22 21 32 9 5
3°° 6 20 0 28 21 27 0 r 12 29 53 22 34 10 2
301 6 20 5 29 22 43 1 57 1 H23 ?3 35 10 59
302 12 20 9 3 ° 24 0 3 41 2 5° 24 36 11 55
digitized by G O O O l C
Original from
m c i a / v n p t ' D i i m 1r i i d r a r v
A T A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
________________ by double Horary Times.
^ol in Aquaries.
A. R.
D. M.
Time
From Noon.
H . M.
10
Houfe.
11
Houfe.
D r M
12
Houfe.
D r M
Afcendant
n
D. M.
2 1 3
Houfe. Houfe.
D n M^D 25M
302 12 20 9 0 24 0 3 4 1 2 5° 24 36
11 55
3°3 14 20 13 1 25 17 5 26 4 14 25 36 12 51
3°4 l6 20 17 2 26 34 7 11 5 37 26 35 x3 45
3°5 18 20 21 3 27 s 1 8 56 6 58 27 33 14 39
3°6 20 20 25 4 29 8 10 40 8 *7 28 3 1 x5 3 2
307 22 20 29 5 OK 25 12 25 9 33 29 28 16 26
308 24 20 34 6 I 43 *4 10 10 49 O2
B24 17 19
3°9 25 20 38 7 3 1 15 54 12 3 1 20 18 x3
3 10 26 20 4 2 8 4 19 *7 37 *3 14 2 16 x9 6
311 27 20 46 9 5 37 *9 22 14 24 3 11 20 0
3 12 27 20 5° 10 6 55 21 4 *5 3 2 4 5 20 53
3*3 28 20 54 11 8 *3 22 45 16 40 4 58 21 46
314 29 2fr 58 12 9 3 i 24 24 *7 46 5 5 1 22 39
3*5 29 21 2 *3 10 49 26 2 18 53 6 43 23 3 1
316 29 21 6 *4 *3 6 27 38 J9 56 7 35 24 23
317 29 21 10 *5 12 24 29 13 20 58 8 27 25 14
318 29 21 14 16 H 42 0 » 3 7 22 0 9 18 26 5
3*9 28 21 18 *7 16 0 2 10 23 0 10 9 26 56
320 27 21 22 18 ‘7 *9 3 4 2 24 0 11 0 27 44
321 26 21 26 *9 18 37 5 11 24 58 11 59 28 38
322 25 21 30 20 19 55 6 40 25 55 12 40 20 29
3 23 24 21 34 21 21 12 8 8 26 5 1 x3 29 0 si 20
324 23 21 38 22 22 29 9 35 , 27 < 47 14 lb 1 11
^25 21 21 41 23 23 46 11 1 28 41 *5 6 2 1
326 20 21 45 24 25 3 12 26 29 36 *5 54 2 5 1
327 l8 21 49 25
/
26 20 x3 5° Oas 29 16 43 3 4 2
328 l6 21 53 26 27 37 *5 *3 I 22 *7 3 1 4 32
329 14 21 57 27 28 54 16 35 2 14 18 20 5 2 3
33° 11 22 1 28 0 r 12 '7 5 6 3 5 l9 8 6 J3
331 9 22 5 29 I 29 19 16 3 56 l9 56 7 3
332 6 22 8 3° 2 47 20 34 4 45 20 44 -Z - 53
A
Digitized by Google
A T A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
double Horary Times.
Sol in Pifces.
A. R.
D. M.
Time
From Noon
H. M.
IO
Houfe
X
11
Houfe
D-r M
12
Houfe
D « M
Afcendant
D. ss M.
2
Houfe
D 22M
3
Houfe
D iiM
33 2 6 22 8 0 2 47 20 34 4 45 20 44 7 54
333 3 22 12 1 4 3 21 5° 5 35 21 41 8 43
334 O 22 16 2 5 19 23 5 6 23 22 *7 9 33
334 57 22 20 3 6 35 24 18 7 12 23 2 10 23
;335 54 22 24 4 7 51 25 3° 8 0 23 47 u 13
336 51 * 22 27 5 9 6 26 4 2 8 48 24 3 1 12 2
i337 48 22 3 i 6 10 21 27 53 9 35 25 J5 12 51
133s 45 22 35 7 11 36 29 3 10 22 26 0 •3 41
[339 41 22 39 8 12 51 O n 12 11 7 26 45 H 3 °
| 34° 37 22 4 2 9 !4 6 !
! 1 20 11 5 2 27 3° *5 !9
[341 33 22 46 10 *5 20 2 27 12 37 28 14 16 8
342 29 22 5° 11 16 33 3 33 r3 23 (28 58 16 57
343 2 5 22 54 12 '7 45 4 39 14 7 29 4 2 17 46
344 21 22 57 13 18 57 5 44 *4 . 54 Ofl.25 18 35
345 J7 23 1 H 20 9 6 48 35 I 9 *9 25
346 12 *3 5 15 21 21 7 5 1 16 *7 1 52 20 14
347 8 23 8 16 22 32 8 54 J7 1 2 3 6 21 3
348 3 2 3 12 l 7 23 43 9 56 *7 44 3 19 21 52
34s 59 2 3 16 18 24 54 10 58 18 26 .4 2 22 41
349 54 23 20 *9 26 5 11 59 19 9 4 4 ° 23 3°
350 49 23 23 20 27 16 i3 0 19 52 5 3 ° 24 19
34i 45 23 27 21 28 26 14 0 20 33 0 H 25 8
352 4 ° 23 3 i 22 29 36 15 0 21 *5 p s
8
25 58
/
353 35 23 34 23 0 a 45 15 59 21 56 7 4 2 26 47
344 3° 2 3 3» 24 1 54 16 58 22 37 8 20 27 36
n /
355 25 23 42 2 5 3 2 17 56 23 18 9 10 28 26
356 20 23 45 26 4 10 18 52 23 59 9 54 29 15
357 *5 23 49 27 5 18 19 47 24 I O 3» onR 4
358 10 23 53 28 6 26 20 40 25 21 11 22 0 53
359 5 23 56 29 7 33 21 3 4 - 26 2 12 5 1 43
369 0 24 0 30 8 40 22 27 26 42 12 49 2 33
X x
Digitized by Go sle Original from
M C U / v n D P D I I D I I r I I D D A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
192
It is no uncommon thing with many readers, and particularly thofe
not very conversant with figures, to pafs over all tables as intricate, or
difficult tounderftand. But, fince no information can be obtained in the
practical part of this Science without them, it is proper to caution all my
readers againft this much mistaken notion j for every perfon who can make
ufe of a Ready R
e
c
k
o
n
e
r
, or Trader's Sure Guide, may with equal eafe un­
derstand all the tables calculated for this work.
The ufe of the Ephemeris, in Setting a figure, is to point out the places
of the planets at noon, whenever required. For this purpofe, we refer
to the given day of the month, in the firft column of the right-hand page,
and oppofite to it, in the Second column, is the Sun’s place or longitude
that day at noon. So alfo, in the fame line of the Succeeding columns
through the whole table, are the places of the Moon, Saturn, Jupiter,
Mars, Venus, and Mercury, as Specified at the top of each diftintt co­
lumn j and thefe are the true places of the Sun, Moon, and planets,
every day throughout the year, precifely at twelve o’clock at noon.
Therefore, if the figure be erected before that time, the diurnal motion
of the planets muft be deducted in hours and minutes, in proportion to
the rate they move at per hour; but, if it be eredted after noon, then So
many, hours or minutes mull be added as will bring them to the precife
time of eredting the figure.
The twelve tables of Houfes are next to be referred to ; and thefe are
calculated to fhew what degrees of each fign polfefs the cufps of the
twelve houfes of heaven when the figure is eretied. They begin with
the Sun’s entrance into the fign Aries, and Shew his progrefs through
each degree of the twelve Signs of the zodiac.
. Now let it be required, by way of example, to eredt a figure for F ri­
day, the 11th day of June, 1784, at 11 h. 24 min. A. M. that is, at
twenty-four minutes pad eleven o’clock in the morning. To do this, I
refer to the firft column of the right-hand page of the Ephemeris for
June, and oppofite the n th day of the month, in the fecond column,
which has o 's longitude printed at the top, I find 21. 3. 27, with the
fign n prefixed at the fide of the firft range of figures. This indicates,
that the Sun, at twelve o’clock that day, is in twenty-one degrees three
minutes and twepty-feven fecond6 of Gem ini; but the nnnutes^ apd
feconds, when lelj than thirty, a^e rejected without fenfible error, and,
when more than thirty, have as many added as wift make them up even
degrees. I therefore turn to the table of houfes, and in the page enti­
tled Sol in Gemini I look for the column that has the fign n at the
top, which is the third ; I feek for 21 degrees, and in the column on
Jt* rf /'*»**> ldl-,h
<
!
Google Origirkal from
M E I A / V f l D f Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S 'T .R O L O G Y. 193
the left fide of it, entitled Timefrom noin, I find, even with 21 degrees,
5 h. 21 min. The hours and minutes thus found are uniformly to be
added to the time or hour of the day when the figure is ere&cd, un-
lefs it be precifely at noon, in which cafe, as we have before obferved,
the places of the Sun, planets, and figns, are to be fet down exactly as
they are found in the.Ephemeris, and tables of houfes. But, the pre-
fent figure being erected juft thirty-fix minutes before twelve o’clock, I
am to add this time, reckoning from noon the preceding day, to the
above 5 h. 21 min. and from thefe two fums added together I fubtradfc
^■twenty-four hours, and the remainder will give the degrees of each of the
twelve figns, as then pofited upon the cufps of the horofeope; thus:
Time anfwering to 21 degrees of n
Time from noon the preceding day
Added together, make
Subtract
Remainder
h. min.
5 21
*3 24
28 45
24 0
4 45
I feek this remainder in the tablesof houfes^entitled £q1 in Gemini, in
the column of T
im
ejro
mnoon-, but, not finding 4. 45, I take the neareft
number to it, which is 4. 46; and oppofite this number, in the next
column on the right, I find 13 degrees of Gemini in the tenth houfe,.
which is denoted by 10th houfe n , at the top of the column; and there­
fore I place thirteen degrees of Gemini in the line or cufp of the tenth
houfe of the figure. This done, I refer to the next column in rotation
to the right hand, and in the fame line with the twenty-one degrees of J
Gemini I find 20. 7, and, looking to the top of the column, find it to
be twenty degrees and feven minutes of the fign 25, with 11 houfe over,
and therefore I place twenty degrees feven minutes of Cancer upon the
cufp of the eleventh houfe. I follow the fame rule with the next co-
lumn, where I find 21. aB, and looking to the top find the fign &, 12
houfe, and accordingly place twenty-one degrees thirty-eight minutes
of Leo upon the cuip of the twelfth houfe in the figure. Then I refer
to the next column, where I find 17. 1, and at the top the word Afcen-'
dantwith the fign »
R prefixed, which fignifies that feventeen degrees one
minute of Virgo occupy the firft houfe or Afcendant, which I place ac«-
cordingly. I then refer to the next column, and even with the preced­
ing figures ftand 9. 15, when, looking up the column, I obferve the
fign ^ below "R, and 2 houfe at the top, which ihews that nine degrees
fifteen minutes of Libra are to be placed on the cufp of the fecond houfe.
This done, I refer to the laft: column, and even with the former num-
2 bers
Digitized by Gck>sle Original from
MC\A/ v n e k ' Dl ID I Ir I I Q B A P V
194 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
* bers I find 7 .4 8 ; and, looking up the column as before, Iobfervethe
fign below «a=
, and 3 houfe over, which indicates that feven degrees
forty-eight minutes of Scorpio are to be placed on the cufp of the third
houfe. Thus the fix oriental houfes, namely, the tenth, eleventh, twelfth,
firft, fecond, and third, arefurnifhed with the degrees of each fign then
rifing upon them ; and the fix occidental houfes, being oppofite to the
former, are always furnifhed with the fame degrees and minutes-of the
oppofite figns; th u s:
Houfes oppofite. Signs oppofite.
4 10 r t£
h
5 11 n
6 12 n
1 7
25 *?
2 8 a zz
3 9 X
So that the tenth houfe is oppofite to the fourth, and the fourth to
the tenth j the eleventh to the fifth, and the fifth to the eleventh j and
fo through the whole j the ufe of which is that, if on the cufp of the
tenth houfe you find the fign Aries, then on the cufp of the fourth houfe
you.muft place the fign Libra; and, whatever degree and minute of Aries
pofTefles the cufp of the tenth houfe, the fame degree and minute of Li­
bra muft be placed on the cufp of the fourth houfe; and the fame rule
muft be obferved with all the other houfes and figns, which is univerfal
and ever holds true. For example, in the prefent figure, we have placed
13 degrees of n on the cufp of the tenth houfe j now t being oppofite
to n , and the fourth houfe to the tenth, I therefore place 13 degrees of
t on the cufp of the fourth houfe. Upon the cufp of the eleventh
houfe, 20 degrees 7 minutes of Cancer being already placed, and the
fifth houfe being oppofite to the eleventh, and oppofite 2s, I there­
fore put 20 degrees 7 minutes of kupon the cuf
The cufp of the twelfth houfe being alfo occupied with 21 degrees 38
* minutes of Si,I place 21 degrees 38 minutes of the oppofite fign &
upon the cufp of the fixth houfe, which is oppofite the twelfth. Upon
the cufp of the firft houfe, orafeendant, their is 17 degrees 1 minute of
and the feventh houfe being oppofite to the firft, and the fign x to
m , I accordingly place 17 degrees 1 minute of x upon the cufp or line
of the feventh houfe. Having alfo placed 9 degrees 15 minutes of £=
upon the cufp of the fecond houfe, I place 9 degrees 15 minutes of the
oppofite fign v upon the cufp of the eighth houfe, which is oppofite to
the fecond. I then refer to ■the'third houfe, upon the cufp of which are
placed 7 degrees 48 minutes of i»t; and the oppofite houfe to this being
Digitized by Gc
kgle Original from
m p u / v n R k ' D i i m i r i i d p a p v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 195
the ninth, and « the oppofite fign, I place 7 degrees 48 minutes of
Taurus upon the cufp of the ninth houfe; and thus the twelve houfes
are completely occupied with the twelve figns of the zodiac, with the
degrees afcending, at the precil'e time of ereding the figure.
Having fo far fucceeded, the next thing is to place the Sun, Moon, and
planets, in the figure, agreeable to their polition at that time inthe heavens,
and this is alfo to be done by the help of the right-hand page of the Ephe-
meris. For inftance, I again refer to the 11 th of June, and oppofite
to it, in the column of the o ’s longitude, I find him in 21 degrees 3
minutes and 27 feconds of Gemini that day at noon. But as the figure is
ereded thirty-fix minutes before noon, I note how far the Sun has moved
from noon the preceding day, and find he has gone at the rate of fifty-
feven minutes, which gives a difference of one minute and twenty-feven
feconds for the time before noon, as follows :
Sun's place at noon, June n th
Dedud for 36 min. before noon
* min. fee.
21 3 27
O 1 2 7 • •1
■
9
*
21 2 O f
Remains
Thus I find the Sun’s place at twenty-four minutes after eleven o’clock,
in 21 degrees 2 minutes of Gemini; which fign being then upon the cufp
of the tenth houfe, I therefore place the Sun in that houfe, clofe to the .
fign, with thefe degrees and minutes. I then refer to the Ephemeris for ■ :
the Moon’s place, and in the column of her longitude, oppofite the 1ith •• *
day of the month, I find her in 5 degrees 46 minutes of v , at noon ; but, ; J
to know her place thirty-fix minutes before, I note how much (he goes
in an hour, and find her motion to be 35 minutes ; then I dedud 21 mi­
nutes for the time before noon, and find her true place to be in 5 heur»-
25 minutes of Aries, which I accordingly enter before the cufp of the **
eighth hoiffe clofe to that fign. I then refer to the Ephemeris for the
planet , and on the n th of June I find him*retrograde in 22 degrees
53 minutes of the fign k
f, wherefore I place him under Capricorn, in
fifth houfe, with an R prefixed, to denote that he is retrograde.—I refer
to the Ephemeris in like manner for the planets Jupiter, Mars, Venus,
and Mercury, which I alfo enter in their proper places in the figure, viz.
Jupiter in 7 degrees 36 minutes of K, Mars in 27 degrees 1 minute ol
ss, Venus in 5 degrees 5 minutes of n , and Mercury retrograde, in 24
degrees 2 minutes of the fame fign.
The planets being thus entered, I next refer to the top of the fecond
page of the Ephemeris, for the column of the Moon’s node, which we
term the Dragon’s Head, and I find on the 7th day of the month it is
No. 10. Y y fi
Digitized by Google Original from
V n R k ' Dl IP I Ir I I P P A R V
a
i
f
i
n
n
f
t
-
n
d
-
w
-
^
n
q
q
^
-
v
^
p
/F
i
m
n
c
n
m
i
h
p
i
r
aaaaaa
/
/
t
I
tti
i
/
n
p
7
m
f
i
i
n
-
a
iF
>
n
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
196 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
- in four degreesfef Pifces; but, as it moves backward about three minute#
per day, I dedu<ft eleven minutes, to bring it to the n th of June, and
its place will then be in four degrees 8 minutes of Pifcesj I therefore
enter it in the fixth houfe, under the fign K ; and, as the place of the
Dragon’s Tail is always oppofite to the Dragon’s Head, I place it in the
fame degrees of the oppofite fign, which in this figure falls in the twelfth
houfe, which is oppofite to the fixth.
The figure is now entirely completed, except putting in the Part of
j • Fortune, which is the diftance of the Moon’s place from the Sun’s added
,j to the afcendant. The mode of determining this has commonly been by
firft finding the true place of the Moon, then the true place of the Sun;
then fubtrafting the Sun’s place from the Moon’s, and adding to the re-
^ mainder the degrees of the afcendant; and this, if taken in the fphere of
■
i
the Moon, gives the place of the Part of Fortune. But, a much more
' correct method having been’adopted by the learned Placidus, we recom-
njHC ^ mend it in preference to any other; it is as follows: Firft note the fign
‘ i an<^ degree on t^ie afcendant, and enter with the fame fign and degree in
the table of oblique afcenfions calculated for this work, in the latitude
wherein you ere£t your figure ; and in the common angle of meeting you
will find the number required. Then enter the fame table with the de­
gree of the Sun, and fubtradt the oblique afcenfion of the one from the
other, and the remainder will be the Sun’s diftance from the J afcendant.
, Then take the right afcenfion of the Moon, and enter the table of the
Vt Moon’s right afcenfion under the degrees of north or fouth latitude, as
then happens to be; and, when the Moon’s right afcenfion is found,
fubtradt it from the Sun’s diftance from the afcendant, and the remainder
will be the right afcenfion of the Part of Fortune. For example, in
» . V
the’figure before u s: deg.
The fign n. has 17 deg. 1 min. upon the afcen­
dant, the oblique afcenfion of which is
The oblique afcenfion of the o (both being in
northern figns, nothing is added) is
161
47
min.
33
43
W hich being fubtradled from the othes, remains 113 50
Then fubtradt the right afcenfion of the Moon, 2 52
Remains 111
W hich is the right afcenfion of the Part oi Fortune. I refer for this
fum to the firft column of the preceding tables of houfes, under A. R.
J In this operation always obferve, that, if the fign afcending be foilthem, and the fign in
which the Sun is pofited be northern, then add the whole circle of the zodiac, or three hundred
and fixty degrees, of the northern fign5 andv i a v e r fa y if anorthern fign afcend, and the Sunbe
placed in a fouthern.
which
Digitized by Google Original from
M P A / v n p i f ' Dl I P I I r I I P P A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 197
which fignifies Right Afcenfion, and in the fourth table, or Sol in Can­
cer, I find 111 deg. 39 min. which is only nineteen minutes lefs; and op-
pofite to this fum, in the third column of the table, ftands 20, with the
fign ns at the top, and this denotes the Part of Fortune to be in 20 de­
grees of Cancer; but, as nineteen minutes were wanting to make up the
number, I allow one minute more, becaufe fifteen minutes on the equator
is equal to I minute of tim e; and hence the true place of the Part of For­
tune falls in 20 degrees 1 minute of Cancer; and I accordingly enter it be­
low that fign in the fcheme, which is now completed, and ftands thus.
This figure includes all that is required for the purpofe of judging
horary queftions, and the like; but, in nativities, and in the more imme­
diate concerns of life and death, regard mud be had to the fixed ftars,
according to their magnitude, influence, and pofitions near the afcendant
or its lord, near the Moon, or the other fignificators. And, becaule it is
of importance to know their natures, qualities, and fignificators, I {hall
fubjoin a table of the moft confiderable fixed ftars in the northern he­
misphere, and then {hew how to colledl fuch of them into the horofeope
as may relate to the fubjedt at any time under inveftigation.
A TABLE
Digitized b
>Google
• Original from
MCUtf V O C k ' D4 ID I Ir I I D D A D V
A T A B L E o f the principal F i x e d S t
their true L ongitude, L atitude,
a r s near the
M agnitude,
E clip tic, (hew ing
and N ature.
N a m e s o f th e Fixed S t a r s .
L ongitude
1 13. M . I
L atitu d e.
3 . M . D. !Maglsja tu re
S o u th fin d o f th e T a il o t th e W h a le r O 2 c 2 0 47 s r 2 b
T h e S ta r in th e W i n g o f P e g a fu s T 6 1 1 22 35 N 2 3 2
T h e H e a d o f A n d ro m e d a V
* 11 20 2 5 4 2 N 2 U ?
W h a le ’s B e lly r 14 982■5 I S 4 b
T h e G ir d le o f A n d ro m e d a r 2 7 22 5 59 XT 2 ?
B rig h t S ta r in th e H e a d o f th e R a m a 4 39 9 57 3 b J
1 T h e left F o o t o f A n d ro m e d a a 11 i t -7 46 N 2 ?
I T h e B rig h t S ta r in th e J a w o f th e W h a le a 11 2 9 i12 37 S | 2 b
T h e H e a d o f A lg o l M e d u fa a 2 3 Q 22 22 N 3 b V
T h e P le ia d e s a 26 O! 4 3 ° N 5 3 »
T h e m id d le S ta r o f th e S e v e n a 26 *6 4 O N 3 3 2>
O c u lu s T a u r u s u 5 ZSI 2 36 S 3 ?
A ld e b u 6 4<d 5 3 i S 1 3
R*igela ra n n n 56 3* 11 s 1 U 3
T h e fo rm e r S h o u ld e r o f O r io n / 17 S3 16 53 s 2 3 2
S h e G b a t n m 8 55
22 5 1 N I 2 *
1 T Efe fo rm e r S ta r in O r io n ’s B e lt * n 19 23 38 s 2 V b
T h e m id d le S ta r in O r io n ’s B e lt n 20#* 23 24 33 s 2 V *
T h e h ig h e ft S ta r in th e H e a d o f O r io n n 20 40 *3 26 S 4 V b
T h e S ta r in th e H o r n o f th e B u ll n 21 41 2 14 s 3 3
T h e fo llo w in g S h o u ld e r o f O r io n n *S 4 i 16 6 S 2 3 2
Propus n 27 5 1 O 13 s 4 <f
The right Shoulder of (A u rig a n 28 21 2 I 27 N 2 * 2
- The Bright P oot of G e m in i 25 6 O 6
48 s 2 2 ?
Caftor Apollo 25 *7 10 10 2 N 2 J ? b
Pollux Hercules 25 20 12 6 38 N 2
The fmaller Dog Star 2 3 22 47 *5 57 s 2
*
s £
Praefepe SI 4 L 1 14 N Neb *
North Aflellus SI 4 20 3 8 N 4 3 0
South Affellus SI s 37
O 4
s 4 $ 0 1
Cor Leonis, Regulus .• SI 26 27 O 2 6 N 1 3
Heart of Hydra * it SI 24 12 22 24 N I b ?
Vindemiatrix TO 6 S 2
16
15 s 3 b ? 2
The Back of the Lion T
O 8 10 r4 20 N 2 b ?
T h e T a i l o f th e L io n T
O 18 32 12 18 N 1 b ? 2
C r a te r , o r th e B o tto m o f th e P itc h e r T
O 2 0 27 33 O S 4 ? 2
A r& u ru s r D z
19 7 1 30 N| 1 71 3
T h e V ir g in ’s S p ik e , A rif la 2 0 4 5
1 * 5 9 N I 2 a.
T h e S o u th B a la n c e " l 12 6 O 2 5 N 2 l b ?
The North Balance 16 • 7
8
35 N 2 7+ J
The left Hand of Ophincus n 29 15 >7 19 . N 3 1# b
Higher Star in the P orehead of th e Scorpion t O 5
I s N 2 b ?
The left Knee of Ophincus t 6 9
I I 30 N 3 . %
Cor Scorpio t s 57 4 O S 2 3 I f I
The Scorpion’s Heart, A n ta re s t 6 4 1 4 *7 S 1 5 *
The right Knee of Ophincus t 55 7 18 N 3 b ?
The Bright Star of the V u ltu re Y f 28 3 5 29 21 N 2 b 8
The Mouth of Pegafus m r— 8 3 22 7 > 3 S 2
T h e T a i l of th e Goat «
*
•
"
* 2 o 2 2 29 S 3 b
Marchab X 20 2 19 26 Is 2 3 5
F om ahaut X O 4< 2 l 0 S I ? 2
S c h e a t Pegafi X 25 4 31 7 h n 2 1 b
The
Digitized by Got sle Original from
m e m / v n m r d i i d i i r 1 i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 199
The firft column contains the names of the ftars; the fecond column
fliews their longitude, or in what degree and minute of the twelve figns
they are fituated; the third column lliews the degree and minute of their
latitude, either north or fouth, which is denoted by the letters N . S.
The fourth column denotes their magnitude; and the fifth fliews their
natural quality; for example, the ftar in the wing of Pegafus is in fix
degrees eleven minutes of Aries; has twelve degrees thirty-five minutes
north latitude, is of the fecond magnitude, and participates of the nature
and quality of Mars and Mercury. The fixed ftars may be found and
diftinguiftied in the heavens by their conjundtions with the Moon, or by
obferving their order from any given point in the heavens; thus begin
with the Pleiades, vulgarly called t h e Jiars, and next to them in
order, but fomewhat lower, is a large red ftar called Aldebaran, or the
fouth eye of the Bull-,next follows Or Belt or Girdle, which are three
ftars in a rank thus, ***, and are vulgarly called the Yard or Ell.
Next follows a ftar called the Great Dog, which is a large bright ftar,
fomewhat lower than the Girdle of Orion. The next is called the head
of Gemini, and is about the height of the Seven Stars; there are two to­
gether appear thus, **; the largeft of the two is the ftar here nomi­
nated. The next, which follows in order, is called South no
great ftar, but of a red colour; there are two of them, near together anej.
alike, and ftand or appear thus, % ; the loweft of the two is the ftar
here meant. Next in order follows a ftar called the Head of Hydra,
lower than Afiellus, and of-a bright white colour. Then follows a ftar
in the flank of the Lion, very bright, and about the height of the Se­
ven Stars. Next to that the Virgin’s Girdle, a bright ftar, and lower
than the flank of the Lion. And next follows a curious ftar called the
Virgins Spike, very large and bright; it is a ftar of the firft mag­
nitude, and appears a little lower or more foutherly than the Virgin’s
Girdle. Next in order follows the ftar called a very remarka­
ble bright red-coloured ftar, about the latitude of the Pleiades. Then
follows the ftar of the Crown, large and bright, and higher than Ardtu-
rus. Then the Right Shoulder of Hercules, of a pale white colour, near
the altitude of the Seven Stars. Then follows the head of Ophincus, of
a pale-white colour, and fomewhat fouthward of Hercules. Then ap­
pears a ftar under the armpit of Sigittary, a bright ftar, but very low.
Next, the bright ftar of the Vulture, large, and lower than the Seven Stars.
The next ftar is called the Left Shoulder of the ; about the
altitude of Orion’s Girdle, of a pale-white colour. The next in order is
the ftar called Marchab, being a ftar of a bright colour, a little lower than
the Seven Stars, but much bigger. Then follows the Southern ftar of
the Whale's Tail-, this ftar is of a pale colour, and about the height of
the Sun the fhorteft day. Then follows a ftar called the Girdle of An-
No. 10. Z z dromeda.
Digitized by Google Original from
MCIAJ Dl IPI Ir I I P D A P V
200 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
dromeda, a bright glittering liar, and much higher than the Pleiades.
Laflly, there is the bright flar of the of a red colour, and lower
than the Seven Stars. Thofe that would be curious in thefe fpeculations
fhould fludy the celeflial globe, and learn to be very expert in the ufe of
it, which is mod eafily attained, ,and alfo very entertaining.
Now, to know whether any of the fixed flars fall into the figure ere<5t-
ed, I note the fign and degree upon the cufpsof thehoufes, and then exa­
mine the fecond column of the foregoing table of fixed flars, and, if I find
either of them afcending or defcending within five degrees of the figns
upon the cufps of the feveral houfes, they are then to be entered in the
fame manner as the planets, and their qualities and influences are to be
duly weighed, according to the nature of whatever planet they corre-
fpond with, which is fhewn in the lafl column of the table. In the fore­
going figure of the heavens, I obferve feventeen degrees one minute of
upon the afcendant; then, looking down the twelve figns in order in the
lecond column of fixed flars, Ifind ntt 18. 32, and even with it in the firft
column, the tail of the Lion, which fhews that this flar is alfo afcend­
ing within five degrees of the culp of the firft houfe, or afcendant j and
therefore I place it in the firft houfe of the figure, under the fign m . I then
examine the other cufps according to their rotation, and, on the cufp of
the fourth houfe, I find t 13. o, and, in the table of fixed flars, I find
t 14. 55, and even with it the Right Knee of Ophincus, which
fhews that this flar is within two degrees of the cufp of the fourth
houle, in which I accordingly place it. On the cufp of the fixth houfe
I fee -r 21. 38, and in the table of fixed flars I find Marchab Pegafi in
~ 20. 25 ; I therefore place it under the fign ~ in the fixth houfe of the
figure. Upon the cufp of the eighth houfe in the figure is v 9. 15,
and in the table of fixed flars I find the head of Andromeda in 11. 20,
I therefore place it juft within the cufp of the eighth houfe. Upon the
medium cceli, I find n 13. o, and in the table I find the eminent fixed
flar Rigel, of the firft magnitude, in n 13. 56, I therefore place him in
the mid-heaven. Upon the cufp of the eleventh Hands s> 20. 7, and
in the table I find the flar Pollux in ss 20. 12, which I enter within the
cufp of the eleventh houfe. Upon the cufp of the twelfth is 21. 38,
and in the table I find the flar Hydra in si 24. 12, and therefore I enter
him in twenty-four degrees of Leo in the twelfth houle; and thus I have
collected the pofitions of all the planets and eminent fixed flars, as they
flood in the heavens at twenty four minutes pall eleven o’clock, on Fri­
day the eleventh of June, 1784. As the fixed flars move on their lon­
gitude at the rate of fifty feconds per year, and of courfe vary in their po-
fition, I have for this reafon calculated a table, by which their fituation
may be known at any given time, pallor to come..
TABLE
Digitized by Go<..gle Original from
MEIA/ v n c b ' Dl i m IC I I D E A
#
TABLE, (hewing the Places of the F i x e d S t a r s * at any.T im e, part
or to come.
Years. degrees Min. Second t ( Years. (degrees Min. Seconds
I O O 5° 40 O 33 20
2 O 1 40 5° O 41 40
3 O 2 30 60 O 50 O
4 O 3 20 70 O 58 20
5 O 4 i° j 80 X 6 40
6 O 5 0 90 1 *5 0 j
7 O
5 5° 100 1 23 20 j
8 O 6 40 200 2 46 40 j
9 O 7 3° 3 °° 4 10 O
10 O 8 20 400 5 33 20
20 O 16 4° 5°° 6 56 40
3° O 0 600 8 i 9 O
-
»
----—
Now, fuppofe it were required to know the fituation of twenty
years ago* I refer to the table of fixed ftars, and find him in fix degrees
forty-five minutes of Gemini, in this prefent year* I then enter the co­
lumn of years in the above table, at No. 20, and even with it in the fol­
lowing columns (land o. 16. 40, which (hews that Aldebaran has moved
fixtecn minutes and forty feconds in twenty years* and, this fum being
deducted from fix degrees forty-five minutes, his prefent place in Gemi­
ni, (hews that twenty years ago he was pofited in fix degrees eighteen mi­
nutes and twenty feconds of this fign. This rule will hold good for any
other ftar, or for any number of years* only obferving, that, if it be re­
quired to know the (far’s place twenty years hence, then the fixteen minutes
and forty feconds muft be added * and (o in proportion for any other length
of time. But, fince the afpedts of the planets at the time of eredting the
figure conftitute the principal index of our judgment, I examine their
pofition in this refpedl, and note them down under the title of the figure,
where they (land as a conftant guide to our judgment on the matter under "
confideration.' For inftance, I examine the figure above projected, and
in the mid-heaven I find the Sun in twenty-one degrees two minutes of
Gemini, and Mercury in twenty-four degrees two minutes of fhe fame
fign, applying by his retrograde motion to a partile conjundtion with the
Sun, which I note thus, <
5 0 8-. Examining the other planets, I find •
Venus in five degrees five minutes of_Gemini, and the Moon in live de­
grees twenty-five minutes of Aries * I then reckon from fivedegrees of Aries
to five degrees of Taurus is thirty degrees, and from five degrees of Tau­
rus to five degrees of Gemini is thirty degrees more* thefe, amounting to
fixty degrees, conftitute a partile fextile afpedl, which I thus note,
2-
Digitized by Goosle Original from
M P A / V f l D ^ DIIDI Ir I I B B A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
* T
>?. Then I obferve Jupiter in feven degrees thirty-fix minutes of
Pifces, and Venus in five degrees five minutes of Gemini, and, their dif-
tance from each other being reckoned as before, they are found to be near
eighty-eight degrees apart; and, as ninety degrees make a quartile, they
are now within each other’s orbs, and are confequently in a platic o
applying to a partileafpedt, becaufe Venus is a fwifter planet than Jupi­
ter; wherefore I note down this afpedt o $ V. Then I find Mars in
twenty-feven degrees one minute of Cancer , and Saturn retrograde in
twenty-two degrees fifty-three minutes of Capricorn , which being op-
pofite figns, and the planet’s degrees within each other’s orbs, conftitute
a platic oppofition, which I note thus, g <f. Thefe being all
the afpedts, I range them together under the title of the figure thus,
<SG>8* 5 ■
? o ! it i W . This figure is eredted in the hour of
Mars, as may be feen by referring to the table of planetary hours; I there­
fore fignify it thus, <
t hor. and, the latitude under which the figure is
eredted being that of London I enter 51. 32, that is, fifty-one degrees
thirty-two minutes north latitude. But, as no figure can be eredted by
the foregoing tables of houfes for any other latitude than that of London,
without being redlified by the pofitions of the poles, I here fubjoin a
table of the poles pofitions for the eleventh, third, twelfth, and fecond,
houfes, whereby a figure may be eredtetj for any latitude from thirty to
fixty degrees.
TABLE of the Circles of Pofitions of the eleventh, third, twelfth, and
fecond, Houfes, from thirty-one to fixty Degrees of Latitude.
lAfcen-
dant
D.
11 & 3
Houfes
D. M.
12 & 2
Houfes
D. M.
Afcen-
dant
D.
11 6c
Houfe
D. M.
12 & 2
Houfes
D. M.
3 1 1r 25 21 58 46 19 28 35 9
32 11 52 22 47 47 20 7 36 8
33 12 *9 23 35 48 20 49 37 8
34 12 48 24 24 49 21 33 38 10
35 *3 17 25 *3 5° 22 l 7 39 11
36 *3 48 26 4 5 1 23 4 40 16
37 H *7 26 55 52 23 5 1 4 1 20
38 14 49 27 46 53 24 40 42 26
39 15 20 28 38 54 25 34 43 32
40 15 52 29 32 55 26 29 44 41
41 16 25 30 25 56 27 25" 45 5 i
42 16 59 3 i 22 57 28 24 47 0
43 17 36 32 16 58 29 26 48 J3
44 18 J3 33 13 59 3° 30 49 26
1 45 18 50 34 I X 60 31 39 5° 42
Suppofe
Original from
M C \ /k / v n o f c ' Dl ID I I r I I P D A P V
Digitized by Got. gle
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 203
Suppofe it were required to find the poles elevation of the eleventh,
third, twelfth, and fecond, houfes for the latitude of fifty-three degrees,
I enter the table at No. 53, under the title afcendant, and right againft
it I find under the eleventh and third houfes twenty-four degrees thirty
minutes, which is the poles elevation; and under the twelfth and fecond
houfes I find forty-two degrees twenty-fix minutes, which is the poles
elevation for the twelfth and fecond houfes; and in this manner they may
be found for any other latitude.
Now, by knowing the poles elevation for thefe houfes, a figure of the
heavens may be eredted for the nativity of any perfon born within thirty-
one to fixty degrees of latitude. For example, fuppofe a perfon born
in fifty-three degrees of latitude, on the firft of June, 1784, at thirty-
fix minutes paft five o’clock in the afternoon, what would be the de­
grees of each fign upon the cufps of the twelve houfes ? to know this,
turn to the Ephemeris for the Sun’s place on the firft of June, and it
will be found in eleven degrees thirty minutes of Gemini; then refer to
the table of houfes for the Sun in Gemini, and in the column under
loth houfe, I look down for 11. 30, but, finding no minutes, I look into
the column upon the left hand under time from noon, where I find
4 h. 38 min. the next arch of time being 4 h. 42 minutes, I divide
the difference for the thirty minutes, which makes the true time 4 h. 40
min. To this I add 5 h. 36 min, the time after noon, which added to­
gether make 10 h. 16 min. which I feek in the column of time from
noon and in the next column on the right hand I find the figure 2,
with 10 houfe ne at the top, which denotes that two degrees of Virgo
are at that time upon the cufp of the tenth houfe. Then, in order'to
know what figns poffefs the other houfes, I look into the firft column of
the table, with A. R. at the top, which fignifies the right afcenfion of
time, and even with the above number I find 154. o, which declares that
to be the right afcenfion of the mid-heaven. To thefe 154 degrees I
add 30, which make together 184 ; then I refer to the above table for
poles pofition in fifty-three degrees, and even therewith ftand 24. 40.
which is the pole of the eleventh houfe. I then refer to the table of
oblique afcenfions, at the end of this work, for twenty-five degrees of la­
titude, and feek the number 184, which I find in the column under Li­
bra, and 12 min. over; then I look into the firft column of degrees in this
table, and even to 184 ftand 4; but thefe twelve minutes being too
much, I equate for them by the Sexagenary Tables, placed alfo at the end
of this work, by which I find that three degrees forty-three minutes of
Libraare to be placed on the cufp of the eleventh houfe. Then I add thirty
degrees to the above 184, for the twelfth houfe, which make 214. I re-
No. 10 3 A fer
Digitized by Go<.>gle Original from
M C \ / U V O D F D I I D I i r I I B B A B V
*04 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
fer to the above table of poles pofition in the latitude of fifty-three de­
grees for the pole of the twelfth houfe, which I find to be 42. 26 ; I re­
ject the 26, and in the table of oblique afcenfions for lat. 42 I feek 214
which I find under the column of Libra; and, looking into the firft co­
lumn of degrees, I find 27; but, equating by the Sexagenary Table for the
odd minutes, it gives twenty-fix degrees thirty-one minutes of Libra for
the cufp of the twelfth houfe. Then, for the firft houfe or afcendant,
I add to the above 214 thirty degrees more, which make 244, and this
fum I feek in the above table under the pole or latitude of birth, which
is fifty-three degrees; I turn to the table of oblique afcenfions for fifty-
three degrees, which I find in the column under Scorpio, and even with
it in the firft column of degrees I find 14, which fliews that fourteen
degrees of Scorpio are on the cufp of the afcendant. I then bring down
the above 244, adding thirty degrees more for the fecond houfe, andthefc
make 274; I then refer to the above table of poles pofition for lat. 53,
and even with it in the column under fecond houfe I find 42. 26.—I re­
ject the 26 as before, and refer to the tables of oblique afcenfions for
forty-two degrees of latitude, where I feek No. 274, and find it in the
column under Sagittarius; and even with it in the firft column of de­
grees I find 14, which diredts fourteen degrees of Sagittarius to be placed
on the cufp of the fecond houfe. Then for the third houfe I add thirty
degrees more to the above J 274, which makes together 304; I then refer
for the pole’s pofition of the third houfe in the above table, and find even
with lat. 53 the number 24. 42; but, as thefe minutes exceed thirty, I
refer to the table of oblique afcenfions for twenty-five degrees, where I
leek 304, which I find in the column under Capricorn, and even with it,
in the firft column of degrees, I find 21; but, by equating as before for
the odd minutes in the SexagenaryTables, I find that twenty-one degrees
twenty-nine minutes of Capricorn are upon the cufp of the third houfe.
Thus the fix oriental houfes are fumilhed with the proper degrees of each
lign rifing upon them at the time required. and ftand thus •
On the cufp of the ioth houfe **
Deg.
2
Min.
O
11th houfe c
S
s 3 43
12th houfe 26 3 1
Afcendant, or ift houfe n H 0
2d houfe t H 0
3d houfe kf 21 29
t Note, that as often as thefe additions of 30 for each progreffive fign exceed 360, which is the
whole number of degrees in the circle of the Zodiac, then the circle of 360 muft be fubtradled,
and the remainder will be the number required of the tables of oblique afcenfions.
1 And
Digitized by Google Original from
M P / i / v n n k ' D i i m 1r 1 i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . *04
And by thefe, the fix occidental houfes are to be furnifhed in the fame
manner, as before directed, with the oppofite figns ; but for the fake of
plainnefs I will again ftate them.
oppofite
f 1
r* 2 0
t£ = v 3 43
A
is V 2 6
3 1
n a H 0
X n 14 0
V. J
22
V, 2 1 2 9
In this plain, eafy, and obvious, manner, may the fituation of the
heavens be found for any latitude whatever. But, to make it more eafy,
it is neceffary to explain what we mean by the poles pofitions, and the
equations of time. If we imagine twelve great circles, one of which is
the meridian of any given place, to interfefct each other in the two poles
of the earth, and to cut the equator in every fifteenth degree, they will be
divided by the poles into twenty-four femicircles, which divide the equator
into twenty-four equal parts j and as the earth turns on its axis, the planes
of thefe femicircles come fucceflively after one another every hour to the
fun. And, as in an hour of time there is a revolution of fifteen degrees
of the equator, in a minute of time there will be a revolution of fifteen
minutes of the equator, and in a fecond of time a revolution of fifteen
feconds. Thus, to every pi,ice fifteen degrees eaftward from any given
meridian, it is noon an hour fooner than on that meridian, becaufe their
meridian comes to the Sun an hour fooner. And to all places fifteen de­
grees weftward, it is hour later, becaufe their meridian comes an hour
later to the Sun j and fo on, every fifteen degrees of motion caufing an
hour’s difference of time. Therefore they, who have noon an hour later
than we, have their meridian, that is, their longitude, fifteen degrees
weftward from u s; and they, who have noon an hour fooner than we,
have their meridian or longitude fifteen degrees eaftward from ours ; and
fo, for every hour’s difference of time, fifteen degrees difference of longi­
tude. And, as we fhall have frequent occafion to equate the motions of
the equator with the hours and minutes of time, I here fubjoin two tables
for that purpofe.
TABLES
Digitized by ( j O O S j l C
Original from
MCVAf v n c Y Dl ID I IT I I D D A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
TABLES for converting mean folar Time into Degrees and Parts of the
terreftial Equator j and alfo for converting Degrees and Parts of the
Equator into folar Time._______________________________ _
T a b l e I. For converting Time into
Degrees and Parts of the Equator.
T a b l e II. For converting Degrees and
Parts of the Equator into Time.
X
o
O
n>
*
2
?
d
rt
C
T
Q
s
p
o
cS
§
p*
• •
O 1
n
<n 1
1
H
o
u
r
s
s
p '
*
a
rt
Cp
H
o
u
r
s
s
B
! o
X
O
2
CTQ
—
I
CO
rt S
CO
rt CO
rt 2 CO
rt ! S §
CO
a ■
—
* s
CO
rt
r t
QTQ 5 ’
c
n
CO
o>
O
CO
p p 0 O
p 0 5 p p
p ’ p
0 -« .
a
c
CO
c
r-t
r t
CO H H CO H CO CO H CO CO H
CO CO
' rt
O s r rt
O p* rt
p ?
p - 0
0 a
0
5.
v
>
•-i
CL
<
s
> Qu
1
/1 CL
l/>
3-
c/> 1
1 15 I O
15 3 1 7 45 1 0 4 3 1 2 4 70 4 40
2 3° 2 O
3° 3 2 8 0 1 2
1
0 8 3 2 2 8 80 5 20
3 4 5 l 3 0 45 33 8 *5 3 0 12 33 2 12 90 6 0
4 60 I O 34 8 3° 4 0 16 34 2 16 100 6 4 °
5 75 5 I 15 35 8 45 5 0 20 35 2 20 n o
7 20
6 90 6 1 3° 36 9 0 6 0 24 36 2 24 120 8 O
7 i °5 7 1 45 37 9 15 7 0 28 37 2 28 130 8 40
8 120 8 2 0 38 9 3 °
8 0 32 38 2 32 140 9 20
9 135 9 2 15 39 9 45 9 0 36 39 2 36 i 5 °
10 O
I O
150 10 2 J ?
40 I O O 10 0 4 ° | 4 ° 2 40 160 10 40
11 16511 2 45 4 1 I O
15 11 0 4 4 ,4 1 2 44 170 1 I 20
12 180 12 3 0 42 I O
3°
12 0 4 8 4 2 2 48 180 12 0
!3 <95 13 3 15 43 I O
45 13 0 52 |43 2 52 190 12 40
14 210 »4 3 3° 44 11 0 14 0 5 6,44 2 56 200 13 20
15 225 15 . .3 45 45 11 *5 15 I 0 4 5 3 O 210 14 O
16 240 16 4 0 46 11 3° 16 1 4 4 6 3 4 2 2 0 14 40
i ? 255 17 4 15 47 11 45 ■7 I
8 4 7 3 8 230 15 20
18 270 18 4 3°
48 12 0
18
1 12 48 3 12 240 16 O
19 285 l 9 4 45 49 12 15 '49 1 l 6 49 3 16 250 16 40
20 300 20 5 0 5°
12 3° 20 I 20 50 3 20260 17 20
21 3>5 21 5 15 5i 12 45 21 I
24 5i 3 24270 18 O
22 33° 22 5 3° 52 13 0 22 I 28 52 3 28 280 18 40
23 345 23 5 4 5 5 3 13 J5 |23 1 3 253 3 32 290 19 20
24I360 24 6 ° i 54 13 3° 24 1 36 54 3 36 300 20 O
25I375 25 6 *535 r3 45 25 1 40 55 3 40 310 20 40
26 390 26 6 30 56 l 4 0 26 I 44 56 3 44 320 21 20
27405 27 6 45157 14 15 27 I 48 57 3 48 3 3 °
22 O
2 8 4 2 0 28 7 0 58 14 30 28 1 52 58 3 52340 22 40
29,435;29 7 15 59 r4 4 5 |
29 2 56 59 3 5 6 3 5 ° 23 20
3 0 4 5 0 3 0 7 3°
60 *5 o ilI30 2 060 4 0 360 24 1 O
If
Digitized by G<x <
zle Original from
VrtBIr' DIIRI IT I I P D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 207
If the reader in Table I. reckons the columns marked with afterifks
to be minutes of time, the other columns give the equatoreal parts or
motion in degrees and minutes; if he reckons the afterifkcolumns to be
feconds, the others give the motion in minutes and feconds of the equa­
tor; if thirds, in feconds and thirds. And if in Table II. he reckons the
afterilk columns to be degrees of motion, the others give the time
anfwering thereto in hours and minutes; if minutes of motion, the time
is minutes and feconds; if feconds of motion, the correfponding time is
given in feconds and thirds. An example in each cafe will make the
whole very plain.
E X A M P L E I.
In 10 hours 15 minutes 24 feconds 20 thirds, %
u. How much of the
Equator revolves through the Meridian ?
Hours 10
Deg.
150
M.
0
s.
0
Minutes 15 •m am
3 45 0
Seconds 24 - 0 6 0
Thirds 20 0 0 S
Anfwer *53 5
E X A M P L E II.
D
egreesf I^°
^ 3
M
inutes $1
Seconds 5
through the M
eridian?
H. M. s. T.
- 10 0 0 0
- O 12 0 0
- 0 3 24 0
- 0 0 0 20
Anfwer 10 15 24. 20
For theconvenience of perfons born in anypart of England, who
m
aywant tocalculate their own nativity, I have added the following
tableof thelatitude and longitude of the m
oll confiderable tow
ns in
thekingdom, which will likewife- anfw
erforanyother places of birth
that happennear them
.
Ho. 10. 3B ATABLE
Digitized by Google Original from
A I P A / v n o k ' d i 1d 1 i r 1 I D D A D V
a
i
f
i
n
n
f
i
-
n
r
l
#
a
c
n
c
c
a
v
i
p
/
f
i
i
m
c
n
n
u
n
p
i
i
•
AAAAAA//?rln
11
/
n
a
7
m
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
i
n
n
n
208
A TA BL E
Reading, Berkfhire
Bedford, Bedfordftiire _ -
Buckingham, Buckingham{hire
Cambridge, Cambridgefliire
Ely, Cambridgelhire
Chefter, Chefhire
Launcefton, Cornwall
Carlifle, Cumberland
Derby, Derbyftlire
Exeter, Devonfliire
Crookhern, Somerfetfhire
Dorchefter, Dorfetfliire
Durham, Durham
Colchefter, Eflex
Glouceftgr, Gloucefterlhire
Winchef^ Hampftiire
Hertford, Hertfordfhire
Hereford, Herefordfhire
Huntingdon, Hujtfingdonftiire
Canterbury, Ken^
Rochefter, Kent
Lancafter, Lancalhire
Leicefter, Leicefterfhire
Lincoln, Lincolnflure
L ondon
Monmouth, Monmouthlhire
Portfmouth, Hampftiire
Norwich, Norfolk
Peterborough, Northamptonfhire
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
of the L a t i t u d e and L o n g i t u d e of the principal
C i t i e s and T o w n s in E N G L A N D .
[Long.| Lat.
21 5 1 5 4 58
* 4 5 2
ii,5*
4 ° i5 *
3652
4 i 5 *
5 5 S 1
39Si
29?Z
41S
2
5 4 5 *
4 0 5 0
5 4 S 2
4 ' 5 4
28,51
8 $2
L ong L a t. '
22 3 0 S1 2 3
22 5 5 S2 8
22 5 7 Si 5 9
2 3 3 * 52 1 3
* 3
40 5 * 25
20 21 S3 *♦
18 4 ' 5° 4 3 :
20 36 5 4 5 7 ,
21 5 4 5 2 5 7 :
* 9 3 » 5 ° 42
21 9 5° 4 5
20 4 7 S° 40
22 0 5 4
46
24 2S 5 ‘ 5 9
21 7 5 « 5 2
22 4 5 * 2
2 3
22 S i 5 °
20 3 5
2 3 12 5 2 21
24 4 3 5 i 18
24 7 5 * 2 4
20 3 3 : 5 4 6
22 1 4 5 2 3 9
22 5 4 S3 * 4
2 3 26 S« 3 2
20 30 S1 5 i
22 26 SO 5 °
2 4 4 5 5 2 4 4
23 7 5 2 . 3 4
Newcaftle, Northumberland
Nottingham, Nottinghamlhirc
Oxford, Oxfordfhire
Oakham, Rutlandlhire
Shrewfbury, Shropftlire
Briftol, Somerfetmire
Bath, Somerfetfhire
Wells, Somerfetfliire
Litchfield, StafFordftiire
Ipfwich, Suffolk
Guildford, Surrey
Chichefter, SufTex
Coventry, Warwickfhire
Kendal, Weftmorland
Salifbury, Wiltfhire
Worcefter, Worcefterlhire
York, Yorkftiire
Beaumarais, Anglefea
Brecknock, Brecknockftiire
Carmarthen, Carmarthenshire
Bangor, Carnarvonfhire
Cardigan, Cardiganfhire
Denbigh, Denbighfhire
ISt. Afaph, Flintlhire
ILlandaff, Glamorganfhire
Montgomery, Montgomeryfhire
St. David’s, Pembrokefhire
Radnor, Radnorfhire
22
22
22
20
• 9
20
20
21
24
22
22
z f
2 0
21
21
22
*9
l 9
1$
19
18
• 9
19
20
20
*7
20
2r
8
S6
S3
S
3
S1
5 4 5 1
5 S3
34S2
5 1
4 9
2
to
56
10
S3
S3
51
52
s«
S2
46
40
4 5
27
22
12
12
IO
12
4 7
27
21
3
* 3
5 7
24
5 9
S
S
21
> 9
*4
21
3 *
3 7
5 9
20
Thus hy proper attention to the rules and directions preceding, may
any perfon, though of {mall abilities, ereCt the horofcope and introduce
the figns, planets, and {tars, therein, at any given time required. This
is indifputably a confiderable advancement in the practical part of the
Science of Aftrology} though it muft be owned, that the mere know­
ledge of thus defcribing and arranging the planets in the horofcope, with­
out we add unto it the ability of defining, from fome certain and expe­
rienced rules, the meaning, effeCts, and influences, of them, under what­
ever afpeCts or fituations they may be found, can be of but little or no
advantage. To make this apparent, let me but alk the reader to turn to
the foregoing figure of the heavens, ereCted for the n th of June
1784, and defcribe the natural meaning and indications of the figns and
planets we have taught him to place therein ? A compliance with this
he finds impoffible, not having either by theory or practice attained to
them. As a key to this important acquifition, I {hall now lay down
fome experienced rules and aphorifms, which Ihould be attentively con-
fidered, and thoroughly underltood, before any further advances are made
in the lludy. I {hall therefore begin with the following general Axioms.
1 I. That
u
^ Digitized by Google Original from
k l C M i V l ^ D ^ Dl I D I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 209
I. That every fign, planet, and fixed flar, hath afpecific and particu­
lar effedt in one houfe, or part of the heavens, different from what they
have in another.
II. That the Sun by himfelf in any houfe ®f a figure hath one effedl,
the Moon another, Saturn another, Jupiter another, and fo on through
the whole. And that this holds good alfo in refpedt to the figns and
fixed flare.
III. That, as a planet hath one effedl in himfelf, fo hath he another
whenjoined in conjunction with another planet; and by a fextile, quar-
tile, trine, and oppofition.
IV. That the quartile and oppofition of Saturnand Mars have one ef­
fect; and the quartile and oppofition of Jupiter and Venus another.
V. That a planet hath one fpecial or fpecific effeCl when lord of the
firfl houfeor afeendant; another when lord of the fecond houfe; ano­
ther when lord of the third houfe; and, when lord of the fourth, flill
another; and fo on throughall the twelve houfes of heaven.
VI. That whatever point of the heavens retains the Sun as fignificator
in any nativity retains afolar force and influence in refpeCt to that native
aslong as he lives. The fame rule extends to the Moon, and to Sa­
turn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, &c. wherefore the horofeope or afeendant
in every geniture hath and doth contain a radical influence over the na­
tive’s life; the mid-heaven over his actions and occupation; and each of
the other houfes over thofe particular events and viciflitudes to which
they refpcClively appertain.
VII. That the fame point in the heavens, which in one nativity is the
place of the Sun, may in another nativity be the place of Saturn, Jupi­
ter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, or the Moon.
VIII. That every agent, aCtingby itfelf, ads onlyaccording to its own
peculiar form and virtue.
IX. That every patient fuffers according to its own proper nature; and
that whatever is receivedis received only in proportion to the capacity of
the receiver.
X. That the fame, always exifting, mufl always work the fame effeft
in or upon the fame fubjeft. Thefe being premifed, we fhall confider
The
Digitized by Go<.>sle Original from
MCl/U v n R k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
u
u
m
c
im
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
t
i
u
/
m
l
l
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
ic
ili
m
u
u
b
t
.
u
i
y
/d
L
L
t;b
b
_
u
b
t
;-«
-|J
u
-y
u
u
y
ie
210 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
The Effedls of each PLA N ET in each of the TW ELV E HOUSES.
Saturn in the firft houfe, or afcendant, {hews melancholy, with many
forrows; if near the afcendant, {hort life; if at a diftance, innumerable
troubles; in the fecond, deftroys the fubftance; in the third, hatred be­
tween brethren, and danger and lofs in journeying; in the fourth, death
of father and mother before the native, lofs of inheritance and friends;
in the fifth, barrennefs, death of children, or difobedient ones if living;
in the fixth, much ficknefs, erodes by fervants, and Ioffes by cattle; in
the feventh, an ungovernable wife, {hort and wretched life, with many
public enemies; in the eighth, a violent death and lofs of legacies; in
the ninth, many Ioffes by fea; in the tenth, diihonour, imprifonment,
{hort life to the parents, death by fentence of a judge; in the eleventh,
defpair, falfe friends, death of children; in the twelfth, forrow, trou­
ble, imprifonment, and perfecution, by private enemies. Thefe are the
common effe6ts of Saturn, when fignificator, and weak or meanly dig­
nified.
Jupiter in the firft gives a good, happy, and long, life, juft and ho-
neft; in the fecond, profufion of riches; in the third, friendftiip of
brethren, and fortunate journeys; in the fourth, lands and inheritances,
with an honourable life and end; in the fifth, many children obedient
and virtuous; in the fixth, health and faithful fervants, profit by deal­
ing in cattle; in the feventh, an honourable marriage, a good wife, an
honeft, wife, difereet, virtuous, woman; in the eighth, a natural death,
long life, legacies; in the ninth, a true Chriftian, ecclefiaftical prefer­
ment, profitable fea-voyages; in the tenth, preferment, great and dura­
ble honours, and riches by trading; in the eleventh, encreafe of riches,
faithful and great friends, the fulfulling of all his defires; in the twelfth,
profit by cattle, vidtory over private enemies: this if he beftro'ng; if
weak, the good will be much abated.
M ars in the firft houfe denotes fliortnefs of life, quarrelfomenefs, fears
in the head or face; in the fecond, poverty, want, and many troubles;
in the third, evil brethren, danger in travelling, atheift, an ungodly
perfon; in the fourth, {hort life to the father, ftrife between him and
the native, deftru&ion to his inheritance; in the fifth, wicked children,
and of {hort life, or fickly; in the fixth, fevers, bad fervants, lofs of
cattle; in the feventh, quarrels, law-fuits, public enemies, an evil wife,
ficknefs, a follower of lewd women; in the eighth, a violent death,
lofs of fubftance, poverty; in the ninth, changing of religion, lofs at
fea by robbers, an atheift; in the tenth, unfortunate honour, troubles
from magiftrates, ficknefs to the mother, martial preferment; in the
eleventh.
Original from
MEM/ V O R ^ DI I BI Ir I I R R A R V
211
OF A S T R O L O G Y .
eleventh, fialfe friend?, lofs of fubftance. In the twelfth, imprifonment,
lofs by feryagts and cattle, many private energies j this if Mars be weak
and affii&ed j if ftrong, thefe evils abate, and fometimes the contrary
good takes place.
Sol in the firft jjjives honpur, glory, and long life. , In the fecond,
a flow of riches continually, but a confumption of it. In the third, good
brethren and journeys, a ftickler for his religion. In the fourth, honour
in age, a great and noble inheritance. In the fifth, fe\v children; yet'fuch
as will be good and virtuous. In the fixth, difeafes of the mind. In
the feventh, a good wife, honourable adverfaries, and ficknefs. In the
eighth, a good portion with a wife, danger of a violent death. In the
ninth, truly religious, ecclefiafticaf preferment, gain by the fea. In the
tenth, greatnefs, honour, glory, and power, from kings, princes, and no­
ble women, much exceeding the quali^ of the native’s birth, thefriend-
Ihip of perfons of high degree. In the eleventh, great and noble friends,
and very faithful, the fulfilling of one’s hopes. In the twelfth, power­
ful adverfaries; this if ftrong; if weak, in many things the contrary.
Venus in the firft gives health, but inclines to the pleafure of women.
In the fecond, riches in abundance by women’s means. In the third,
religious loving brethren, good journeys. In the fourth, an inheritance,
honourable old age. In the fifth, m^ny children, comely, obedient, and
v irtu o si In the fixth, ficknefs 'from womankind, faithful pleafing fer-
_ v a n fl^ A fu in final1cattle. In the feventh, an incomparably good and
v-U^^Hatife, a happy marriage, and haying but few enemies. In the
eig^^Pw good dowry with a wi(e, a natural death. In the ninth, eccle-
. fiaftical preferment, a real religious ,pian, profit by fea. In the .tenth,
honour and .preferment by women’s means, the favour of great women.
In the eleventh*,honourable and faithful female friends. In the twelfth,
profit by great cattle, free from the power of private enemies j this if
llrong ; if weak the contrary.
Mercury in the firft gives noble thoughts, good invention, graceful,
elocution, a lover of arts and feiences. In the fecond, profit by arts and
fciences, books, writings, and the like. In the third, a mathematician,
fwift and profperous journeys, a fcholar, one of an excellent invention,
crafty brethren, a moral perfon. In the fourth, the getting of an inhe­
ritance by cunning or deceit. In the fifth, ingenious children. In the
fixth, thievilh fervants, difeafes of the breath and brain. In the feventh,
a fomenter of quarrels, vexatious law-fuits; a difcreet wife. In the
eighth, an augmentation of eftate by wills and legacies, death by a con­
fumption. In the ninth, an incomparable artift, and one that under-
No. ii, 3 C ftands
Digitized by Google Original from
M P 1
A/ v r s D i ^ n i i n i i r i i n n a D V
i,
u
u
u
y
i
c
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
c
u
/
i
i
l
l
|
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
i
a
u
n
u
u
i
i
.
u
i
y
/
a
n
.
c
a
5
_
U
3
C
#
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Hands all fciences, even the moll obfeure and occult things, a finder-out
of many new and excellent inventions. In the tenth, liberal preferment*
or a fecretary to fome great perfon. In the eleventh, inconftant friends.
In the twelfth, his private enemies will be of little effeft. This if Mer­
cury be ftrong and not afflidted ; if weak, the good will much abate.
Luna in the Tirft (hews the native will travel; will gain fuperiority
and rule over others ; the favour of princes and noble women, and
great advantages thereby. In the fecond, fometimes riches, fometimes
poverty, an unftable fortune. In the third, many journeys. In the
fourth, gain by travelling. In the fifth, many children. In the fixth,
difeafes of the brain, good fervants, and gain by fmall cattle. In thefe-
venth, an honourable marriage. In the eighth, danger of drowning, but
otherwife a long and healthful life. In the ninth, travels beyond fea,
inconftancy in religion, acquaintance with arts and fciences. In the
tenth, great honour unto the native, profit by fea-voyages; the favour of
fome noble woman. In the eleventh, the friendfhip of great ladies, and
noble friends. In the twelfth, the common people will be his private
enemies. This if Luna be ftrong and free from afflidtion ; if weak and
afflicted, the contrary.
The Dragon’s Head in the firft (hews honefty. In the fecond, a good
eftate. In the third, fortunate journeys and honeft kindred. In the
fourth, gain by land and travels. In the fifth, long life; happy and vir­
tuous children. In the fixth, health, good fervants, and profit in cattle.
In the feventh, an honeft and virtuous wife. In the eighth, many lega­
cies, and a natural death. In the ninth, fincere piety, profperity at fea.
In the tenth, durability of honour. In the eleventh, everlafting and
faithful friends. In the twelfth, open enemies; but the pofition of the
Dragon’s Tail in the fame places fignifics the contrary. The pofition of
the Part of Fortune gives fubftancc from all thofe things fignified by
that houfe in which it is pofited, unlcfs afflidted by the prefence or beams
of a malevolent planet.
General Effeds of the P L A N E T S in each of the T W E L VE
/ S I G N S ofthe Z O D I A C.
Sa t u r n in his own houfe fignifies wifdom, prudence, and liability
of fortune. In the houfe of Jupiter, a juft man, and one that will
be rich, and acquire honour. In the houfes of Mars, a ftrong body, and
furious. In the houfes of Sol, greatnefs and honour. In the houfes of
Venus, afecretlover of women. In the houfes of Mercury, one that is
ftudious of arts and fciences. In the houfe of Luna, infirmities of the
breaft and lungs.
Jupiter
u
3 Digitized by Goi gle Original from
KI C \hl V n D P D I I D I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 213
Jupiter in the houfes of Saturn fignifies avarice and covetoufneft,
living always in fear of poverty. In his own houfes, infinite riches, ho­
nours, and dignities, and that among great perfons, and clergymen. In
the houfes of Mars, the native may rife to honour by war. In the
houfe of Sol, Ihews honour, glory, and treafure from kings and great
perfons. In the houfes of Venus, riches by women, or an honourable
wife. In the houfes of Mercury, a good rhetorician. In the houfe of
Luna, encreafe of fubftance beyond expe&ation, with honour and re­
nown j for Cancer is not only the exaltation of Jupiter, but alfo alfo a car­
dinal fign, and the northern tropic.
Mars in the houfes of Saturn thews a lofty and magnanimous fpirit,
and wife. In the houfes of Jupiter, it thews the acquaintance of kings,
princes, and noblemen. In his own houfes, a great and ingenious wit, a
mathematician. In the houfe of Sol, forenefs of the eyes, danger of a
violent death. In the houfes of Venus, luxurioufnefs, a boafter, given to
falthood, and a deluder of women. In the houfes of Mercury, one in­
genious in arts and fciences, but covetous, knaviih, and deceitful. In
the houfe of Luna, a wavering, furious, rath, man, one that may arrive to
honour, but will precipitate himfelf therefrom afterwards.
Sol in the houfes of Saturn (hews a dejefted forlorn man. In the houfes
of Jupiter, one that fhall attain honour and glory in the world, and be a
companion of princes. In the houfes of Mars, a great and eminent man,
a commander, captain, or general of a arm y; a fubtle, crafty, politic,
flatefman. In his own houfe, one that may attain the height of honour,
glory and renown, quod capax,according to the quality of his birth.
the houfes of Venus, one that will rife or fall by the means of women. In
the houfes of Mercury, a good engineer, a foldier, and mathematician. In
the houfe of Luna, honour by different women, but fuchas he afterwards
fhall receive prejudice from.
Venus in the houfes of Saturn fignifies hopes of honour and friends,
many children, and old age. In the houfes of Jupiter, (hort journeys,
ficknefs, imprifonment or death. In the houfes of Mars, private and
public enemies, and manyjourneys ; as alfo a lover of different women. In
the houfes of Sol, a fincere lover of his friend and a lover of his children.
In her own houfes, a healthful long-lived perfon, juft and religious. In
the houfes of Mercury, one covetous, butfickly, religious, yet an enemy
to himfelf. In the houfe of Luna, a traveller, and one that will arrive to
great honour and preferment.
Mercury
Digitized by Goc^le Original from
KIEWil V r i B k ' Dl m i Ir I I R R A B V
214 AN i l l u s t r a t i o n
Mercury in the houfes of Saturn (hews honour and travelling by fea,
with much pleafure, but ficknefs withal. In the houfes of Jupiter,
lands, inheritances, an honourable wife, and good friends. In the houfes
of Mars, private enemies } ficknefs, many journeys, and a long life. In
the houfes of Sol, lands and inheritances, yet fubject to imprifonment,
and private enemies. In the houfes of Venus, much wealth and riches,
travelling by fea, one religious, with fome ficknefs. In his own houfes,
wit and ingenuity, knowledge of arts and fciences, honour and renown,
and a lover of children. In the houfe of Luna, many good friends, and
many journeys by land.
Luna in the houfes of Saturn fignifies one religious, and having many
adverfaries, as alfo fore eyes. In the houfes of Jupiter, a fickly body,
but one that (hall attain honour, glory, renown, and the favours of great
men. In the houfes of Mars, a lover of friends and children. In the
houfe of Sol, one that (hall be very rich through his own induftry. In
the houfes of Venus, a great lover of children, and one that (hall have
many friends. In the houfes of Mercury, inheritances, lands, and private
enemies. In her own houfe, happinefs and long life.
General EffeCts from the Position of the LORDS of the HOUSES.
The lord of the afeendant in the afeendant (hews a fortunate and
happy life, and one that (hall overcome all his enemies. In the fecond,
riches and wealth by his own induftry. In the third, many journeys.
In the fourth, lands and inheritance. In the fifth, children, and one
given to pleafure. In the fixth, ficknefs. In the feventh, public adver-
laries, the man will be an enemy to himfelf. In the eighth, legacies.
In the ninth, one religious, learned, and a traveller into foreign countries.
In the tenth, honour, preferment, and favour of princes. In the eleventh,
friends. In the twelfth, danger of imprifonment.
The lord of the fecond in the fecond imports great wealth; In the
third, wealth by brethren and travelling. In the fourth, by the father.
In the fifth, by gaming. In the fixth, wealth by,dealing in cattle. In
the feventh, by. marriage and womankind. In the eighth, by legacies.
In the ninth, by the church, arts and fciences, religion, and the fea. In
the tenth by honour, preferment, trade, tperchandife. In the eleventh,
by friends. In the twelfth, by great cattle. In the afeendant, by birth,
or good fortune.
The lord of the third in the third (hews affectionate brethren,
good journeys. In the fourth, gain by travelling. In the fifth, plea­
fure
Original from
m c v a / v n R k ' d i i m i r i i d d a d v
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 215
fure in travelling. In the fixth, ficknefs in travelling. In the feventh,
thieves and robbers, and fometimes the native meets with a wife. In
the eighth, death in travelling. In the ninth, religious journeys. In
the tenth, for preferment, trade, and the like. In the eleventh, for
ftudy and improvement. In the twelfth, imprifonment in travelling.
In the afcendant, for pleafure, and in purfuit of ufeful difcoveries. In
the fecond, for profit, wealth, and riches.
The lord of the fourth in the fourth, forefhews a good eftate or inhe­
ritance, a father of long life. In the fifth, that the eftate (hall go to the
native’s children. In the fixth, that an eftate may be acquired byphyfic.
In the feventh, that he may have an eftate with a wife.. In the eighth,
by fome gift, legacy, or wife’s portion. In the ninth, by merchandize,
by arts and fciences, or by the church. In the tenth, by fome office,
dignity, or preferment. In the eleventh, by means of a friend. In the
twelfth, by dealing in great cattle. In the afcendant* by inheritance.
In the fecond, by purchafe. In the third, by travelling, or by the
death of brethren.
The lord of the fifth in the fifth, indicates ftrong, lively, and vir­
tuous, children. In the fixth, that his children fhall be induftrious to
gain wealth, and it may be by his fervants. In the feventh, that they
will travel, and that the native and they will difagree. In the eighth,
that they {hall poflefs the mother’s dowry. In the ninth, that they (hall
be given to pleaiure, and go to fea for the father. In the tenth, that
they (hall be fickly, and follow the father’s'trade. In the eleventh, that
they {hall have many public adverfaries, and prove enemies to themfelves.
In the twelfth, that they fhall have many legacies, yet prove enemies to
their parents. In the afcendant, they will prove religious, and learned,
and love their parents. In the fecond, they will prove honourable, and
poflefs the native’s fubftance. In the third, that they-fhall have many
friends, and fuch as will be of their own kindred. In the fourth, that
they will have many private enemies.
The lord of the fixth in the fixth, forefhews ficknefs, yet juft fer­
vants. In the feventh, ficknefs by women, and quarrelling. In the
eighth, danger of a violent death, and dangerous ficknefs. In the ninth,
ficknefs at fea. In the tenth, ficknefs from hard labour and employment
in fome trade. In the eleventh, by lofs of fome friend, or fruftration
of his expectations. In the twelfth, by vexation of private enemier.
In the afcendant, by irregularity .of life. In the fecond, by lofs of fome
eftate. In the third, by reafon of fome journey. In the fourth, by lofs
No. 11, 3 D of
Original from
m c \ a / v r i D is n i 1d 1 ir 1 i d d a d v
Digitized by Google
2l6 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
of inheritance or difappointment in trade. In the fifth, from vexatious
children and loofenefs of life.
The lord of the feventh in the feventh, (hews ficknefs or death to the
native; yet a good wife. In the eighth, danger of Iofing the wife’s for­
tune. In the ninth, fhe will be a ftranger to him, and a traveller. In the
tenth, fhe will be honourable, arid poflefs a good inheritance. In the
eleventh, (he will bean entire lover of him and of his children. In the
twelfth, (he will be his private enemy. In the afcendant, (he will be a
very great lover of her hufband. In the fecond, (lie will be the aug­
mentation of his eftate. In the third, (he will be a lover of her huf-
band’s kindred, and defire to go beyond fca. In the fourth, (lie will be
very honourable, and the native (hall have land by her. In the fifth, a
lover of the native’s children. In the fixth, (he will be a great affliction
to the native and herfelf.
The lord of the eighth in the eighth, (hews the native (hall die a na­
tural death, and that he (hall have a rich wife. In the ninth, he will
be in danger of drowning. In the tenth, his death may be by fentence
of the judge. In the eleventh, by the confpiracy of fome pretended
friend. In the twelfth, by confpiracy of a private enemy. In the af­
cendant, by the native’s own irregularity. In the fecond, by means of
fome moneys or goods. In the third, either by the confpiracy of fome
brother, kinfman, neighbour, or thief. In the fourth, by means of
the lofs of an eftate, or fome grief. In the fifth, by drunkennefs and de­
bauchery. In the fixth, by ficknefs. In the feventh, by a public adver-
ary, or eminent grief,
f
The lord of the ninth in the ninth, (hews good fea-voyages, know­
ledge of arts and fciences, a religious perfon. In the tenth, that reli­
gion will be profitable and honourable, and the native (hall be famous
for his learning. In the eleventh, church dignity, and merchandize, by
means of a friend. In the twelfth, church lands, and that the native
will have clergymen for his enemies. In the afcendant, makes the na­
tive truly religious and learned j and a merchant. In the fecond, riches
by fea, arts, fciences, and the church. In the third, a fe&arian. In
the fourth, gain by the church. In the fifth, one of a loofe religion.
In the fixth, honourable church preferment; and yet that the native
may be a (lave in his religion. - In the feventh, an enemy to the church.
Io the eighth, death or perfecution fcr his religion.
The lord of the tenth in the tenth, great honour, glory, and renown.
In the eleventh, by means of a friend. In the twelfth, through an
enemy.
'O
riginal from
M P 1/1I V n R k ' DI I DI Ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 217
enemy. In the afcendant, by the native’s own induftxy, In the fe-
cond, by means of his money. In the third, by a brother, kinfman, or
neighbour, or by travel. In the fourth, by his father. In the fifth, by
a wife. In the eighth, by a wife’s fortune ; it may alfo fignify a vio­
lent death. In the ninth, by religion, arts, fciences, 4nd navigation.
The lord of the eleventh in the eleventh, denotes great friends. In the
twelfth, private friends. In the afcendant, friends indeed to the native.
In the fecond, fuch as (hall augment the native’s fortune. In the third,
fuch as are of his kindred or neighbours, or as he (hall find in travelling.
In the fourth, his father. In the fifth, fome friends of his wife. In
the fixth, his fervants. In the feventh, his wife. In the eighth, fome
brother’s fervant. In the ninth, a clergyman, merchant, or lover of arts.
In the tenth, kings, princes, nobles, or great perfons.
The lord of the twelfth in the twelfth, denotes ftrong and powerful
private enemies. In the afcendant, fuch as are among his own family
or houfliold. In the fecond, fome perfon envying his (ituation or eftate.
In the third, kindred and neighbours. In the fourth, his father. In the
fifth, his children. In the fixth, his fervants. In the feventh, his wife.
In the eighth, fome diftant relation. In the ninth, fome merchant, fo­
reign dealer, or dignitary in the church. In the tenth, kings, princes,
or men in power. In the twelfth, fome particular reputed friend.
G E N E R A L E F F E C T S produced by the A S P E C T S .
Of the C O N J U N C T I O N .
The conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter (hews inheritances of houfes
and lands, pofleflions, and many worldly profits arifing from cultivating
the earth and tillage, if Mars afflitl not, nor the evil beams of Sol. If
Jupiter is fignificator, the native is miftruftful.
The conjunction of Saturn and Mars (hews much evil, the native will
be afflidted, and vexed, (hall undergo many troubles, and go through
great difficulties. If you would know the caufe of the good or evil, you
muff conlider the houfe in which the configuration happens, and what
houfe the configurated planets are lords of, and accordingly you may
nearly fpeak to the particular matter or accident, be it good or evil; for
things are much varied according to the diverfity of pofition and do­
mination of the planets, by which you muff neceflarily vary thofe judg­
ments.
2 The
Original from
V f > D \/ n i l D I ir I I D D A D V
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
i
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
;
/
/
w
w
w
.
i
i
d
u
iil
i
u
b
L
.u
iy
/d
L
L
e
b
b
_
U
b
t
:-tf
-|J
U
-y
u
u
y
it
;
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The conjunction of Saturn and the Sun, (hews the lofs of inheritance,
danger of houfes being burnt, the native likely to be cheated, to receive
much detriment, and, it may be, lofe all and become poor; except a
fortunate planet be pofited in the fecqnd houfe.
The conjunction of Saturn and Venus (hews one libidinous, and that
he (hall marry a woman wholly of an oppofite temper and difpofition to
himfelf, get difhonour among women-kind, be unhappy in marriage,
and lead, by reafon of his wife, a very difconfolate life. If Venus be fig-
nificatrix, (he is much affliCted; but, if Saturn, then the conjunction is
beneficial; and this is to be obferved in all fimilar cafes.
The conjunction of Saturn and Mercury (hews craft, fubtilty, and
policy, that the native will dive into many fecret, deep, and occult, things,
find out myfteries, be covetous and proud, mixed with a certain kind of
gravity. If Saturn be fignificator, the native has a good elocution ; but.
If Mercury, he has a great impediment in his fpeech.
The conjunction of Saturn and Luna (hews one poor and obfcure; if
Saturn be fignificator, the man is changeable, feldom an hour in one
mind, often doing things, and then repenting of them again ; but, if
Luna be fignificatrix, he is grave, cautious, malapert, over-wife and con­
ceited, and for the mod part wilful in all things.
The conjunction of Jupiter and Mars, if Jupiter be fignificator, makes
the native choleric, ha'ty, angry, bold, proud, prefumptuous, and dar­
ing j gives him feme martial command, and glory and renown in war­
like undertakings; but, if Mars be fignificator, it makes him milder,
religious, good, juft, gives him preferment in the law, or he becomes a
prieft, deacon, bilhop, or other dignitary in the church.
The conjunction of Jupiter and Sol: if Jupiter be fignificator, he af­
flicts the native feverely, calls him into a deep melancholy or difpair,
feizes him with a fever or frenzy, brings the body to a confumption, and
afflicts the eftate with confiderable lofs, even to his utter ruin and dc-
ftruttion ; yet, when by direction Jupiter frees himfelf from Sol’s
beams, thefe evils will ceafe ; but, if Sol be fignificator, he fo debilitates
Jupiter, that the configuration can promife nothing; but it makes the
native religious.
The conjunction of Jupiter and Venus : if Jupiter be fignificator, the
native is fuperlatively happy (more efpecially if the configurations happen
in Pifces, the houfe of Jupiter, and exaltation of Venus) ; he increafes in
wealth
Original from
KIPUl Dl ID I Ir I IP D A D V
Digitized by G o t ' f i l e
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 219
wealth and fubftance, in honour and glory, in health of body, and tran­
quillity of mind, having in general the love of woman-kind j but, if
Venus be fignificatrix, the native has beauty, health, and riches, attains
to great honour and renown, is truly virtuous, pious, and religious,
and has generally ecclefiaftical or jurifprudential preferment. Thi6 is
one of the moft happy configurations that can be.
The conjunction of Jupiter and Mercury, if Jupiter be fignificator,
makes the native virtuous, religious, wife, of great knowledge, and of
good elocution, makes a general fcholar,-4and gives him the knowledge
of moft arts and fciences ; he may prove to be the ambaffador of a prince,
or fuch-like; but, if Mercury be fignificator, the native is folid, ferious,
and grave, pious and religious, and probably may acquire a good eftate by
merchandize or fome ecclefiaftical promotion.
The conjunction of Jupiter and Luna: if Jupiter be fignificator, the
native proves a traveller, it may be beyond fea j he is generally of a
changeable and mutable mind, and, although naturally of a very good hu­
mour and condition, yet fometimes pettiih, froward, and peevifh. If
Luna be fignificatrix, it gives great riches and treafures, according to the
native’s capacity or birth, makes him prudent, wife, religious, and ho­
nourable •, gives him the acquaintance of great and worthy men, clergy­
men, and fuch-like, and probably church preferment.
The conjun&ion of Mars and Sol Ihews a hot and dry conftitution,
danger of fhort life, and death by hectic fevers, marafmos, or by fire
or lightning. If Mars be fignificator, the native has the favour of kings
and princes, and it may be their frowns too, to his utter undoing; he
may rife haftily, but perhaps to a precipice. If Sol be fignificator, the
native proves valiant and warlike, attains fome martial command or
preferment ; but if he goes into war he is killed in the battle, or at beft
comes off wounded, or with the lofs of a limb.
The conjunction of Mars and Venus : if Mars be fignificator, the na­
tive is given up to women, and retains the acquaintance of luch as have
an infamous life and converfation; he is kind, gentle, and courteous,
and, though fometimes hafty, yet of a good humour and difpofition, in-
fomuch that his kindnefs is oftentimes his undoing; but, if Venus be
fignificatrix, the native is luftful, lafeivious, a fornicator, adulterer ;
given over to wicked and lewd courfes, hafty, ralh, proud, inconfidcrate,
qnarrelfome, and running himfelf into many hazards, dangers, troubles,
and Ioffes.
No. n . 3 E The
Digitized by Google Original from
M c u r v n o v d i i b i i r 1 i d d a d v
lj
\
j
\
i
i
d
1
1
1
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
m
li_|j.//vvvvvv.i
id
u
i
i
li
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/c
ii_
i_
e
b
b
_
u
b
t:-tf-|ju
-y
u
u
y
ic
220 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The conjun&ion of Mars and Mercury: if Mars be fignificator, he
makes the native pragmatical, talkative, a fmatterer in learning, a bab­
bler, and deceiver, yet induftrious for the promotion of his own ends
and defigns ; it gives no great preferment, he may be a knavifh apparator,
cheating petty-fogger, or pedantic pedagogue; but, if Mercury be figni-
ficator, the native proves one of harfh manners and converfation, of an ill
life, a thief, highwayman, felon, murderer, traitor, &c.
The conjundion of Mars and Luna : if Mars be fignificator, the na­
tive is of evil manners and infamous converfation ; rifes to no great pre­
ferment; but, if it fhould fo chance that the fcale fhould turn, his rife
may be by means of fome great lady ; but, if Luna be fignificatrix, the
native is bold, rafh, adventurous, quarrelfome, furious, given to cruelty
and bafe actions, may prove a thief, murderer, or traitor; feldom lives
long, for this pofition fignifies a (hort life, and that the native may die a
violent death, by the means of fire, iron, a fall, blow, wound, or by the
hands of the executioner.
The conjunction of Sol and Venus: if Sol be fignificator, it makes
the manners of the native foft and effeminate, yet he is born to glory,
and to do and perform great actions; he obtains the love of women, but
aflociates himfelf with fuch as are bafe, obfeure, libidinous, infamous,
and much below his rank and quality. If Venus is fignificatrix, itfhews
a fhort life, one aiming at glory, but not attaining it ; the native is hec­
tic or confumptive, melancholy, meets with many crolfes, Ioffes, and
vexations, lives notout half his days.
The conjunction of Sol and Mercury: if Sol be fignificator, the na­
tive is adorned with wit, ingenuity, learning, arts, fciences, policy,
underftands languages, and the power of words ; and, becaufe Mercury
delights to be under the Sun-beams, not being there by hurt, as are the
other planets, the native has excellent elocution, and proves a good rhe­
torician and logician. If Mercury be fignificator, he bends all his wit,
craft, and policy, for the accomplifhing of high matters, and the at­
taining of great things; he becomes the favourite of a king, prince, or
great man.
The conjunction of Sol and Luna: if Sol be fignificator, though he
generally gives a great and high fpirit, and aiming at magnificent things,
yet this configuration gives only mean and low acquaintance, and the fo-
ciety of the common people, makes the native mutable and changeable,
and his fortune as unfiable. If Luna be fignificatrix, the native fhall aim
at noble and gallant things, but not attain them j many croffes fhall be-
fal him, and his life fhall be fhort.
The
Original from
v n e v DI I D I i r I I D D A D V
Digitized by G o o g l e
a
ifin
n
fi-n
r
l-w
-^
q
n
q
q
a
-'n
p
/F
i
i
r
v
^
n
m
i
h
p
i
i
-
aaaaaa
/
/
t
1
t
i
i
i
/
n
p
>
7
m
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
i
n
n
n
M
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
221
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
The conjunction of Venus and Mercury : if Venus be fignificatrix, it
gives a delicate beautiful body, adorned with wit, ingenuity, and elo­
quence, makes the native courteous and complaifant, furnifheshim with
variety of arts, and learning, and is a configuration of very good import ;
if Venus be lady of the fecond, it gives a good augmentation of fortune
through merchandize, or the ftudy of arts and fciences. If Mercury be
fignificator, it makes the native an orator, furnilhes him with courtfhip,
foft and effeminate words, makes him pleafant in all company, gives him
the fociety and love of women, and, if Venus be flrong, of great ladies ;
in a word, it makes him exceedingly happy.
The conjun&ion of Venus and Luna, if Venus be fignificatrix, makes
the native mutable and changeable, a mere Proteus, yet with a deal of
pleafantnefs and fatisfaclion to others; it makes him of many words, a
great promifer, but no performer; proud, lofty, conceited, and gives
him profit by the fea, and all lunar and moift commodities. If Luna
be fignificatrix, the native is very effeminate and courtly, having a volu­
ble tongue, free language, and excellentdifeourfe, inclined to the love of
women, which, if Venus be ftrong, is only to fuch as are virtuous; de­
lights in mufic, dancing, and merry company, never thinking of forrow,
or laying any thing to heart.
The conjunction of Mercury and Luna, if Mercury be fignificator,
makes thenative travel into foreign countries, defirous to fee new things,
fafhions, and places ; gives him favour and efteem among the ladies, and
to be in great eflimation among the popularity, by means of whom he
rifes to a good fortune and to great profperity in the world. If Luna is
fignificatrix, it makes the native ingenious, and a lover of learning, feek-
ing after the knowledge of mofl arts and fciences ; chiefly the mathema­
tics, geography, cofmography, and navigation, by which he attains
credit and reputation; he delights in journeys and embaflies, being of a
mutable and inconftant humour and difpofition.
Of the S E X T I L E and T R I N E .
The fextile and trine of Saturn and Jupiter, if Saturn be fignificator,
makes the native grave, fober, wife, religious, pious, and endows him
with riches and treafures of this life, gives him the favour and acquain­
tance of the rich and great, or the native becomes a merchant, and gains
confiderably by it. If Jupiter be fignificator, thenative is more propenie
to melancholy, is inclinable to dig and delight in the earth and follow
hufbandry ; fome eftate, inheritance, or houfes, may fall to him ; and he
may be promoted to fome ecclefiaftical dignity for his worth, learning,
and virtue; however, Saturn fhews cowardice.
The
Original from
MHAf v n o t ' di m i ir i i d b a r v
Digitized by Got gle
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
:
t
;
u
/
m
l
l
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
m
c
iu
iil
i
u
^
l
.
u
i
y
/c
J
L
L
t
i
b
^
u
b
t
;
-
#
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
l
e
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The fextile or trine of Saturn and M ars: if Saturn be fignificator, his
natural llownefs and warinefs turns into raihnefs and boldnefs, (yet with
a kind of temerity $) he runs into precipitate actions, and ftrange adven­
tures ; it commonly gives martial preferment. If Mars is fignificator,
the raihnefs and daringnefs of difpofition are much abated, and the native
is guided by very confiderate and deliberate counfels i if he proves reli­
gious, (as fuch feldomdo,) he is an abfolute fe&arian, following pertina-
cioufiy the fentiments of his own mind: it {hews an eftatc in land or
legacies.
The fextile or trine of Saturn and the Sun : if Saturn be fignificator,
the native has an auftere countenance, a lightifh brown hair, large bones,
not very fleihy, (looping a little in hie going, he has a (how of generofity
and noblenefs in his aftions, but pafiionate and feeking revenge, yet
without any great courage or valour if put to the trial j he probably may
attain preferment at court. If Sol be fignificator, the man is more
corpulent, yet with a very decent body and a full round face; given to
boafting and oftentation, wilful and conceited, yet without any kind of
malice, fcarcely injuring any but himfclf, by his too much extravagant
expence and prodigality.
The fextile or trine of ^uj^tec.and Venus: if Saturn be fignificator,
the native is comely, having brown hair, a delighter in women’s company,
wafting his patrimony upon the female fex, fcarcely leaving any eftate
hehind for his fuccefiors, given over to pleafure and voluptuoufnefs. If
Venus be fignificator, the native is modeft, (hamefaced, yet loving his
belly well, very affable and courteous, and inclinable to few vicious ac­
tions ; gains by the dead, from ancient people, and from the fruits and
profits of the earth ; he has a good repute and converfation, and fcarcely
marries till after thirty years of age.
The fextile or trine of Saturn and Mercury : if Saturn be fignificator,
the native is conceited, full of chimeras and whims, of plots and con­
trivances, yet not often with effect, though carried on with a great
deal of ingenuity} he loves curiofities, and is ftudious, fubtil, and re-
lerved. If Mercury is fignificator, the native is peevilh, difeontented
and deje&ed in his own mind, has ftrange fancies, and is very wilful,
even fometimes to his own ruin, yet given to the ftudy of arts and fei-
cnces, and finding out many curious inventions.
The fextile or trine of Saturn and Luna : if Saturn be fignificator, the
native is wilful, though very changeable of difpofition, fubjeft to jealouly
and miftruft; if Saturn be well fortified, the native becomes popular
and
Digitized by G O t ' Q I C
Original from
m c i m D i i m i r i i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 223
ahd gains much wealth and eftimation by the common people ; he alfo
attains the favour of fome eminent lady, and becomes famous in his ge­
neration. If Luna is fignificatrix, the native is cold by nature, and of an
ill complexion, inclinable to fordid and mean adlions, yet he is deliberate,
and, if he does ill, he does it with preconfideration j he is apt for invention,
but very wilful in all things, conceited of himfelf, fo that bethinks no­
thing well done but what he does himfelf.
The fextile or trine of Jupiter and Mars : if Jupiter be fignificatbr,
it Ihews one of a free and noble difpofition, bold, valiant, and honoura--.
ble, attempting and attaining brave and honourable exploits, generous to
his friends, obliging to his enemies, yet defiring and endeavouring to
rule j he is alfo refolute and fubtle ; if Mars is fignificator, the native is a
man of a large foul, chearful and merry, of ajovial difpofition, active, cou­
rageous, pious, and a very juft man j ennobled with valour, victory, and
virtue, one of good fame, and obtaining the favour and good-will of great
and worthy perfons.
The fextile or trine of Jupiter and S ol: if Jupiter be fignificator, it
fhews a ftrong, tall, well-proportioned, body, of a freth ruddy com­
plexion, a noble, generous, courageous, foul, and of a magnanimous
mind, one attempting and atchieving great and honourable things j or
becomes the favourite of fome king, prince, or great perfon, and rifes to
the top of preferment. If Sol be fignificator, the native is born to honour
and glory, and, quodcapax, arrives to the higheft of all worldly felici­
ties ; he is a man of great fpirit, performs beneficent and honourable
adtiorrs j as Jupiter endows him with a fund of treafure, fo the liberal
fpirit of Sol makes him wafte it by his too great generofity.
The fextile or trine of Jupiter and Venus, if Jupiter be fignificator,
gives a tall and complete perfon, of a pleafant, loving, courteous, difpo­
fition, kind to the female fex, of an exceeding good nature, and the pa­
tron of hofpitality j it is the afpe£t o f love, concord, agreement, good
fortune, and riches ; the native is preferred, and rifes to honour. If Ve­
nus be fignificatrix, the perfon is comely and lovely, one generoufiy dif-
pofed, aiming only at things brave, honourable, virtuous, and good j it
is the afpc& of virtue and piety, of honour, perferment, and vaft for­
tunes in the world ; the native has the acquaintance of perfons of the
higheft ecclefiaftical order, and, it may be, attains the like preferment
himfelf.
The fextile or trine of Jupiter and Mercury : if Jupiter be fignificator,
it (hews a juft, virtuous, good, man, ingenious, and of a very fubtle wit j
No. 11. 3 F it
Original from
M C U/ V Pi D b' Dl ID I i r I I D Q A P V
Digitized by C j O O Q I C
224 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
it is the afpeft of ingenuity, eloquence, and learning; the native-is af«
fable, courteous, mild, and a general lover of learning, one who by his
worth and virtue may be the fecretary orambaffador to fome king or prince.
If Mercury is fignificator, it (hews one very ingenious, and whofe wit is
mixed with virtue and honefty • of a deep underftanding, profound wif-
dom, found judgment, and fuccefsful in any enterprize j a perfon fit
to be the counfellor of a king, or manager of the affairs of a kingdom or
commonwealth ; generous, free fpirited, and perfectly trufty.
The fextile or trine of Jupiter and Luna : if Jupiter be fignificator, the
native is naturally good, juft, and virtuous, but of a very mutable mind,
changing his opinion with the lead perfuafion j it is the afpedt of popu­
larity and general applaufe, and he becomes famous in his generation,
and draws after him the love of the common people j he is loquacious,
highly conceited of himfelf, fortunate by water and women : if Luna
be fignificatrix, it fhews one of a generous, noble, juft, mind, aiming at
high and honourable things j he gains by the church and churchmen,
and is an exadl obferver of juftice and truth ; and a perfon who by his
good nature would oblige the whole world.
The fextile or trine of Mars and Sol j if Mars be fignificator, the native
has a riling fortune, proves great, famous, and eminent, in the world,
meets with preferment at court, or has the efpecial favour of fome king
or prince: it is the afpedl of adtion and honour; he is witty, ingenious,
and trufty ; faithful even to his adverfaries ; of a nimble wit, quick fancy,
courteous, and friendly ; he may prove a general or commander of an army.
If Sol be fignificatrix, it is the afpedl of valour and vidlory ; the native is
of a high fpirit and courageous, attains military honour and preferment,
loves warlike exercifes, appears a terror to his adverfaries, and rifes far
fuperior to his birth.
The fextile or trine of Mars and Venus : if Mars be fignificator, it is
the afpedt of liberty and love ; if Mars be out of his dignities, the native
is vicious above meafure, loves gaming, wantonnefs, women, and all
-manner of lewdnefs and debauchery, he is ill-natured, unlefs among his
own party, and waftes and fpends his fortune upon women j but, if Mars
is in his dignities, it fhews one witty, ingenious, a fearcher out of myfte-
jies, and one who lhall gain a confiderablc fortune in the world. If Ve­
nus is fignificatrix, it is the afpedt of pride, vanity, and vain-glory : the
native is comely, bold, rafti, adventurous, fearing nothing, aiming at
great things, and promifing himfelf mountains, but perfedting little j
and, if Venus is weak, the perfon is debauched, and guilty of many lewd
adtions.
The
Digitized by Got. gle Original from
M E I A / Dl I DI i r I I D D A
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 22$
The Textile or trine of Mars and Mercury : if Mars be fignificator, it
is the afpe£l of confidence and craft; the native has a pregnant fancy,
capable of anything} prudent, fubtle, bold, very ingenious, eloquent,
and ftudious in moft arts and fciences, yet fomething hafty, and fubje6fc
to paflion, which being over, the man is good-humoured again. If Mer­
cury is fignificator, the native is valiant, courageous, ingenious, a lover
of military exercifes, phyfic, furgery, and chemiftry} and may probably
get a fortune by the fire, or dealing in martial commodities; the native
has generally a good opinion of himfelf.
The fextile or trine of Mars and Luna: if Mars be fignificator, it is
the afpedt of loquacity and mutability ; the native gets by the common-
people, or by travel, often changing his Ration or place of dwelling; he
is turbulent, furious, and rafh, but as eafily purfuaded again to a compla­
cent humour. If Luna be fignificatrix, the native is pafiionate, ambi­
tious of honour, afpiring to great things, and purfuing them even to a'
precipice; and, when attained, they feldom continue with him ; and the
reafon is, becaufe of the mutability and changeablenefs of his own na­
ture, mind, and difpofition, which beget a change of his fortunes.
The fextile or trine of Sol and Venus : if Sol be fignificator, it is the
afpe£l of candour and generofity ; the native is exceedingly good-natured,
of an heroic difpofition, having nothing but gallantry in all his adtions ;
he gets by women, and has the favour of fome rich lady, by whom he
meets either with a good fortune or promotion ; he is witty, ingenious,
and of an adtive fancy. If Venus be fignificatrix, it is the afpetl of gran­
deur and magnificence; the native meets with court preferment, or has
the favour of fome prince ; rifes to high honour and glory in the world;
of a good difpofition, yet a little pafiionate, loon angry, and as quickly
appeafed again; of a free, liberal, difpofition, lofty, and a little given to
pride and vain-glory ; but in general a fociable, merry, good-humoured.
The fextile or trine of Sol and Mercury : if Sol be fignificator, the na­
tive is proud, ambitious, conceited, yet very courteous, and without any
Teeming refentment; pafles over lin.dl affronts, left the taking notice of
them fhould be any prejudice to his grandeur ; he is nimble-witted,
loquacious, and very good at invention. If Mercury be fignificator, the.
native feems to rife in the world wholly by his own wit and ingenuity,
and without doubt will attain to a degree of honour above that of his
birth and anceftors quality.
The
Original from
M d M DI I P I I r I I D R A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The Textile or trine of Sol and Luna : if Sol be fignificator, it is
the afpe£t of credit and fame, makes the native eminent in the world,
born to great actions, and to perform extraordinary undertakings atnongft
the common people ; he is cried up for a god among the multitude ; if
be be a prieft or a phyfician, he has a vaft number of followers ; he is
pleafant, chearful, and good-natured. If Luna is fignificatrix, the na­
tive is proud, ambitious, coveting after honour and glory, and generally
born to enjoy a great meafure thereof, but very mutable in his refolves,
and, if Luna be weak, he falls into dilhonour again.
The Textile of Venus and Mercury : if Venus be fignificatrix, the native
is very comely, witty, ingenious, fubtil, and of a good nature, feldom
guilty of any difhonourable action, a good orator, and of an afpiring
fancy, yet feldom bringing things to perfection. If Mercury be lig-
nificator, the native is of an exceeding courteous nature; amorous, one
delighting in womens company, by whom he meets either with for­
tune or preferment} he is wife, prudent, juft, virtuous, a lover of
learning, and cmbelliihed with many excellent parts, both natural and
acquired ; but, if Mercury is weak and out of his dignities, the native
proves vicious inftead of virtuous.
The Textile or trine of Venus and L una: if Venus be fignificatrix, the
native will certainly arrive to honour, and be made great or rich, by
means of fome eminent lady } he alfo has the eftimation of the common
people, and becomes very popular; but is one of an inconftant, unftable,
mind, by reafon of which he performs no great things; he is a comely
engaging perfon, neat and genteel, and very apt to be taken with court-
fbip. If Luna be fignificatrix, the native is very effeminate and amorous,
of a gentle obliging difpofition and temper, one fober, juft, and having
the love of moft women that he converfes with ; but, if Luna be weak
and otherwife unfortunate, the native inclines to vice.
The fextile or trine of Mercury and Luna : if Mercury be fignificator,
the native is witty and ingenious, a lover of novelties and all manner of
new inventions and fancies, and mutable and changeable in his mind,
refofation, and in all undertakings ; a man purely given to’ the art
of diflimutation ; though a pleafane companion. If Luna be fignificx*
tri-x, the native dives into arts and fciences, is fubtlc, crafty, covetous,
a lover of himfelf, referved', and a little melancholy; if Luna is ftrong,
he makes an excellent orator, a good advocate, and may be a fecrctary
to fome prince or nobleman; if Luna be weak, the native is a complete
matter of the art of deceiving.
2 Of
Digitized by Google Original from
m c i a / v n e if m i d i i r* i i d d a d v
p
u
fin
n
fi-n
rl-tf-a
Q
n
i
m
c
n
m
i
h
p
i
i
-
a
a
a
a
a
a
//t
It
ti
i
/
n
a
7
m
R
in
-
p
>
iR
n
n
n
'i
1
1
pi
i
i
n
n
2 -7
P F A S T R O L O Q Y .
Of the Q JJ A R T I L E and O P P O S I T I O N .
The quartile or oppofition of Saturn and Jupiter : if Saturn be fig-
nificator, it (hews trouble and vexation •
, if the man be a fe&arian, he is
perfecuted by the clergy, tormented, and molefted ; if the conjunction
falls in the afcendant, twelfth, eleventh, tenth, or ninth, houfes, the mif-
chief falls in the fore part of life, and the native, through his own folly,
lofes a great part pf his fortune or eftate. If Jupiter is lignificator, it is
the afjpeCt of unceafing troubles and miferies. The native is a continual
Jofer, has great erodes, meets with difgrace and contempt, and, were he
born to a prince’s eftate, would be in danger of becoming a beggar j the
native is of a poor low fpirit, crofs, peevilh, inactive, dull, miferable, and
unfortunate in the world.
The quartile or oppofition of Saturn and M ars: if Saturn be fignifica-
tor, it is the afpeCt of cruejty and murder ; the native is bafe, trea­
cherous, perfidious, envious, quarrelfome, choleric, proud, fcornful,
unfociable, ra(h, ungrateful, and a very ill-natured perlon ; he has good
ftore of wit, but it is only to do mifehief with, and he himlelf meets with
many troubles by war j if M^rs be fignificator, it is the afpeft of trealon
and rebellion j the native is wilful, melancholy, fubjeCt to many linger­
ing and continuing difeafes, apd will be in danger of an untimely death
by falls, .blows, treachery, or poifon ; the native has an unhappy father,
from who.m he in part derives his turbulent fpirit, which extremely hurts
both himfelf and others.
The quartile or oppofition of Saturn and the Sun : if Saturn be figni­
ficator, it is the afpett of contempt and infamy, it thews danger of a vio­
lent death, and it may be by the hand of Juftice ; the native aims at high
and great things, but always mifles his expectations, for his very at­
tempts only are his ruin, both of goods and eftate, and may fometimes
colt his life. The native has a (hew of boldnefs, courage, and revenge,
but his va.lour is but a vapour. If .the S.un be fignificator, it is the afpeCl
of treafon and cowardice; the native is inwardly very fpiteful and mali-
c.ipus, falfe even to his deareft friend, ljudying revenge only by ways oc­
cult and cowardly ; he is wilful, fearful, and timorous, yet impudently
boafting of great things, far above his fphere, capacity, underltanding,
pr .undertaking.
The quartile or oppofition of Saturn and Venus : if Saturn be .fignifi­
cator, it is the alpeCt of infamy and vice. The native loves women,
defires unlawful things; his carriage is rude, his condition bafe, given
No. n . 3 G over
Original from
V r s D V DI ID I Ir I I D O A D V
Digitized by Go*, gle
u
u
i
i
i
d
1
1
1
,
o
u
u
y
i
t
s
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
i
ill|j.//v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
id
u
iiu
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/d
L
L
e
i>
b
_
u
b
e
-w
-|J
u
-y
u
u
y
it:
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
over to lulls and pleafures of the flelb, inclinable to nothing but vicious
and fordid adtions, prodigal in his expences, wafteful to the confumption
of his fortunes. If Venus be fignificatrix, it is the afpedt of deformity
and bafenefs j the native is of a poor, low, bafe, timorous, fpirit, afflidted
with the greateft of all misfortunes and cataftrophes, lofes by the fruits
and produ&s of the earth, and is indeed a gainer by nothing. It is the
deftrudlion of the fignificatrix.
The quartile or oppofition of Saturn and Mercury : if Saturn be figni-
ficator, it brings many evils from mercurial men and things, and from
profecution and lawfuits \ gives the native an impediment in his fpeech,
and makes him flutter, or ftammer, dulls the fancy, fpoils the inge­
nuity, and makes the native wholly intent upon mifehief, wickednefs,
deceit, cheating, and thieving. If Mercury be fignificatdr, the native
will be unfortunate in all his adtions, perpetually poor, of a perverfe,
felf-willed, evil, malicious, envious, treacherous, difpofition, and it may
be a murderer, for Saturn ftirs up mercurial men to all manner of wick­
ednefs ; he will be deceitful above meafure, of a dejedted mind, revenge­
ful, and bring nothing to perfediion.
The quartile or oppofition of Saturn and Luna: if Saturn be fignifi-
cator, it is the afpedt of travel and difeontent; the native is of an in­
different ftature, dark or black hair, a difproportioned body, fometimes
crooked, a traveller, wanderer, or vagabond j one having the ill-will and
reproach of all people, and not undefervedly j a mere deceiver, and fubjedt
to great and manifold misfortunes from the vulgar. If Luna be fignifi­
catrix, it is the afpedt of jealoufy, fufpicion, and miftruft, the native is
crooked both in perfon and mind, malicious, deceitful, flrongly vi­
cious, fcandalous, and debauched ; he is afflidted all the days of his life
with innumerable troubles, crofles from adverfaries, want of health,
wafling of his eftate, poverty, death of his mother, a fhort life, and
danger of a violent death.
The quartile or oppofition of Jupiter and Mars: if Jupiter be fignifi-
cator, it is the afpedt of fury and ingratitude ; the native is rafh, furious,
fcdventurefome, quarrelfome, choleric, and fometimes is vexed with ma»
ligant fevers, is in danger of a violent death by a wound or blow; a
wafter and defiroyer of himfelf, running headlong into precipices, defi-
rous of rule, refolute, ill-natured, fubtle, and perpetually ungrateful to
all his friends, forgetting all their kindnefies. If Mars is fignificator,
it is the afpedt of atheifm and infidelity ; the native wafies and deflroys
his fortune and fubflance ; he is bold audacious, impudent, and incorri­
gible ; of a proud, fcornful, fcofflng, haughty, infolent, humour, a defpifer
2 of
Digitized by Google Original from
M C V M V n D k " D I I P I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 229
of religion, virtue, piety, and moral honefty; and is the abomination of
all good men.
The quartile or oppofition of Jupiter and the Sun : if Jupiter be fig-
nificator, it is the afpedl of arrogance and vain-glory ; the native is
profufe and riotous, given to all forts of excefs and prodigality, and lofes
his expectation ; this configuration deprives him of all manner of honour
and preferment: he is n-oble, lofty, and brave, but only in outward ap-
pearance, and does nothing but to be feen of men. If the Sun is figni-
ficator, the native waftes his patrimony, is proud, lofty, and pragmati­
cal j a defpifer of the church and religion, and a great lover of pleafure
and difiipation, to his own infamy and ruin.
The quartile or oppofition of Jupiter and Venus : if Jupiter be fignifi-
cator, it is the afpett of fornication and lu ll; the native is given over to
debauchery, more efpecially if Venus difpofes of Jupiter. If Venus
be lady of the fecond, the native waftes his fortune and eftate, and will
become indigent and poor; he follows bafe and lewd women, and gets-
an infamous name in the world. If Venus be fignificatrix, the native is
proud, pragmatical, conceited, given over to carnal pleafures, a defpifer
of piety, virtue, honefty, and religion, one having a mere outiide, a flat­
terer, deceiver, a waiter of his own fortunes and patrimony ; he will
have many enemies created by his own evil ways, chiefly among thofe of
the church, and people of anhoneft converfation.
The quartile or oppofition of Jupiter and Mercury : if Jupiter be fig-
nificator, it is the aipedt of ftrife and contention ; the native will be in­
volved in many troubles, controverfies, and perplexities, have many law-
fuits and incumbranes, to his very great prejudice, and to the injury of
his health as well as of his eftate ; he will be ralh, humourfo ne, and very
unftablein all his ways, being generally deceived in all his expectations ;
for Mercury, thus afflidted, reprefents things wrong to the imagination.
If Mercury be fignificator, it is the afjpedt of folly and impudence, the
native is overfeen in all he undertakes, makes filly refolves, and as fool-
ifhly repents of them to his prejudice ; a repining Ample creature, given
over t© fimplicity and abfurdity, to his own utter undoing.
The quartile or oppofiton of Jupiter and the Moon : if Jupiter be fig­
nificator, it fhews a wafting and lofs of l’
ubftance by many ordinary peo­
ple, makes the native mutable, foolilh, without resolution, and one full
of words without any depth or reafon in them ; it fhews alfo lofs of
credit and eftimation, and brings many popular evils on him ; if the
Mcon
Digitized by Go*.>sle Original from
M E M J V n R k " D I I Q I i r I I D D A D
230 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
Moon be fignificatrix, the native is perplexed with unequal fortunes in
the world, many crofies and afflictions befal him; falfe friends, and de­
ceitful confederates enfnare him, his fubftance is made a prey to merci-
lel's enemies, and himfelf the object of their cruelty.
The quartile or oppofition of Mars and the Sun : if Mars be fignifica-
tor, it is the afpett of confufion and ruin, the native aims at great and
high things, but falls at laft into an abyfs of trouble and tnifery ; he
milcarries in all his undertakings, heaps upon himfelf torrents of for*
row, and forebodes a violent death, which, if the Sun be lord of the fix th,
l'eventh, or eighth, houfes, will be by means of a fall, or of a wound
with a weapon ; but, if lord of the tenth, by fentence of a judge. If the
Sun be fignificator, it is the afpecl of vanity, fury, andmadnefs; it fhews
danger of the lofs of an eye, violent death, or death by a malignant fever;
the native is rath in all his adions, fquanders away his fubftance, and
makes his life and fortunes miferable and defperatc.
The quartile or oppofition of Mars and Venns: if Mars be fignifica­
tor, the native is given to vanity, wickednefs, luftful pleafures, and all
manner of abominations of the flelh, gluttony, gaming, and drinking;
he is treacherous, ill-natured, and very unfortunate ; when he marries,
he commonly marries a woman of ill -fame; he is much given to boaft-
ing and oftentatton. If Venus be fignificatrix, the native is infinitely
wicked, a thief, felon, highwayman, or murderer ; takes to all manner
of vice and mifehief; unfortunate both to himfelf and others ; given to
ftrife, contention, and every kind of debauchery and wickednefs.
The quartile or oppofition of Mars and Mercury : if Mars be fignifi­
cator, the native is bold, impudent, bafe, treacherous, deceitful above
meafure, even to his moil endeared friend ; an atheift, a defpifer of God
and all goodnefs, afuperficial, inconftant, unfettled, wretched, creature;
a ftiifter up and down, a thief, and one that lives by dangerous courfes ;
one ill brooking, and long retaining, the fenfe of an injury; humourfame,
conceited, difficult to be pleafed, and unfortunate in all things. If Mer­
cury be fignificator, the native is guilty of many crimes, is of a very
wicked and evil nature, likely to be guilty of murder or 'robbery;
breeder of contention and mifehief, and a follower of almoft every diffio-
nourable pradice.
The quartile or oppofition of Mars and the Moon : if Mars be fignifi­
cator, the native is ill-tongued, a perfeft fcold, gives railing and bafe
language in almoft all difeourfe, is ungrateful, and a forgetter -of Joind-
nefles.
Digitized by Got. gle Original from
KIHA/ DI ID I Ir I I D E A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 231
nefi'es, a wanderer, a vagabond, a detractor from other men’s worth, one
ftupid, and of a fervile life, unfortunate in all his undertakings.. If the
Moon be fignificatrix, the native will be in danger of lofing one of his
eyes, die a violent death, or be fubjedt to many erodes, troubles, and
affli&ions of fortune and juftice ; he is fubject to hurts, wounds, and
other mifehiefs, and is mutable, rath, paflionate, ambitious, prodigal,
malicious, treacherous, and fubjecl to innumerable miferies.
The quartile or oppofition of Sol and Venus; if Sol be fignificator,
the native lives in a dithonourable repute, receives many great troubles
and misfortunes by means of women ; he is bold, confident, proud, one
delighting in tlrife, contention, and oppofition, unfortunate in moft of
his actions, and coming off in moft of his undertakings with dithonour.
If Venus be fignificatrix, the native deludes himfclf with vanities, and
expectations of things which will never be; he is angry, patfionate,
and given up to pride, boafting, and vain glory ; receives much hurt by
great men, and fometimes may be in danger of his life* by fentence of
the judge.
The quartile or oppofition of Sol and Mercury; if Sol be fignificator,
the native is fubjetl to many lofles and vexations by the law ; or receives
hurt by mercurial men and things, is unfortunate, and has an impedi­
ment in his fpeech, one that is deceitful, falfe, and not to be trufted. If
Mercury be fignificator, the native is of a middle ftature, dull fwarthy
complexion, tanned or fun-burnt, with light brown hair, full face and
eye, high nofe, hafty, choleric, proud, angry, and infolent ; a boafter,
ambitious, highly conceited of himfelf, and fubjedl to the frowns of
princes and great men.
The quartile or oppofition of Sol and Luna ; if Sol be fignificator, the
native’s fortune is mutable and unftable, he falls into contempt and re­
proach among the common people, and merits the hatred or difpleafure
of foine great lady or perfon ; he is a cheat, deceiver, or impoftor. If
Luna be fignificatrix, the native is full-faced, of a clear vifage, and light-
coloured hair, very ambitious of honour, which flies from him like a
fhadow purfued; one aiming at and attempting many great things with­
out fuccefs, but meets with many crofles, lofles, troubles, forrows, and
obftrudtions, in his way to preferment.
The quartile or oppofition of Venus and Mercury ; if Venus be figni­
ficatrix, the native is crafty, fubtle, deceitful, and given to thievery ; he
has an impediment in his fpeech, is of dull underftanding, froward, felf-
No. 12. 3 H ' willed.
Digitized by G o o g l e
Original from
MCl/i/ DIIDI Ir I IP B A D V
232 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
willed, crofs, and indeed a perfeft knave, one whofe ill conditions and
bafe mind always keep him poor. If Mercury be fignificator, the na­
tive is deceitful, difhoneft, llothful, given to indolence and eafe, and
delights in the company of lewd women j a mere diffembler, and one
that waftes and fpends his fortune in debauchery.
*
Thequartile oroppofition of Venus and Luna j if Venus be fignifica-
trix, it fhews mutability, ftrifc, contention, quarrelling, debate, one of
an ill tongue and a worfe life, unfortunatein marriage and children, one
idle, indolent, and lazy, fubjeft to poverty and beggary. If Luna be fig-
nificatrix, the perfon is of a bold, impudent, audacious, difpofition, given
up to luft and lewdnefs ; a mere vulgar fordid creature, a wanderer,
fugitive, and vagabond j deceitful, and fubjedt to a rpultitude of misfor­
tunes, efpecially from and among women.
The quartileor oppofition of Mercury and Luna j if Mercury be fig­
nificator, the native is mutable, unftable in all his ways, foolifh, arro­
gant, void of reafon and good manners, loquacious, and very much con­
ceited of himfelf j he fhall meet with many troubles and oppofitions,
and that from the common people, lofe the favour of fome noble wo­
man, and be reduced to an abjedt ftate of poverty : the frowns of a
prince are not fo formidable as the hatred of the common people, for that
10precipitates a man, that it prevents him for ever from rifing again
without fome extraordinary aid : if Luna be fignificatrix, let the native
take what care and pains he will, he fhall never do any thing commenda­
ble j it fignifies a defedl in the tongue, and makes the native in every
undertaking very unfortunate, and for the moil part expofed to contempt
and infamy.
O
n the EFFECTS of the HOUSES.
Firft houfe. If one or both of the infortunes vitiate the degrees afcend-
ing, or the light of time be eclipled.or afflidfed, or the lord of the afcen-
dant combuft, or retrograde and peregrine, or the birth was exadtly up­
on a new or full Moon ; or Luna be in conjunction, quartile, or oppofi­
tion, of Saturn or Mars, or both, in the fourth, fixth, eighth, or twelfth,
houfe, or befieged of the infortunes ; the native will be of fhort life 5 but
contrariwife, if there be fignifications of long life ; that is, if the afcen-
dant, planet therein, or its lord, or all of them, he in a good houfe of hea­
ven, effentially ftrong, and free from affliction, encreafmg in number,
light, and motion ; the native will then have a long and happy life j
otherwife unhappy. Now the afflicting planet, by confidering what
houfe he is lord of, and pofited in, will iheW the caufe.
Second
Digitized by G o c ' g l e
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 233
Second houfe.-—
The cufp of the fecond houfe, free from affli&ion, or
aflifted with the prefence or beams of fortunate planets, or part of for­
tune, or lord of the fecond ; or the lord of the fecond ftrong, free from
affliction, and in a good houfe, or in conjunction, fextile, or trine, of
fortunate planets, or in conjunction of benevolent fixed ftars of the firft
or fecond magnitude, are all evident teftimonies of much wealth, and
great riches ; but, if the cufp of the fecond houfe, the planet therein,
or the lord thereof, be combuft, weak, afflicted by conjundtion, quar-
tile, or oppofition, of the infortunes, decreafing in number, light, and
motion, or in an evil houfe, they are evident teftimonies of poverty and
extreme want.
Third houfe.—
-The cufp of the third, free from affliction, fortified
with the dragon’s head, or good planets, or their afpedts, or the prefence
of its lord ; or the lord thereof ftrong and free from affliction, and in a
good houfe, in fextile or trine with good planets, or the Moon, (hews
good, pleafant, and fafe, journeys; but, if the cufp thereof or its lord be
afflidted with the conjunction, qu.irtile, or oppofition, of the infortune;
or the lord thereof be weak, peregrine, and in the feventh or eighth houfe,
it indicates misfortunes, and Ioffes by robbery or otherwife.
Fourth houfe.—The lord of the fourth, in the fourth, (and generally
any planets there,) fhew an inheritance in land, if they are fortunes, and
ftrongly dignified; or, if the cufp of the fourth, or its lord, be in fextile or
trine with Saturn or Jupiter, it denotes the fame; but, if infortunes, or af­
flicted by the quartile or oppofition of any planet, chiefly Saturn or Mars,
or the lord of the fourth be weak or retrograde, there is either no in­
heritance, or elfe it is much incumbered, and in danger of being loft.
Fifth houfe.—The angles and cufp of the fifth, and fign in which the
lord of the eighth is, being in fruitful figns, many planets in the fifth,
efpecially Jupiter Venus, Mercury, and Luna ; or they calling their
trines to the fifth, or its lord, or if there be any tranfiation or reception, .
or mutual pofition between them and the lord of the fifth ; or the lord of
the fifth, and the lord of the afeendant, or the planet in the afeendant, or
dragon’s head, be there ; thefe arc fignificators of a plentiful ifluc : but.
Saturn, Mars, Sol,, or dragon’s tail, there, efpecially in barren figns, and
Luna, and the lord of the afeendant, in barren figns al-fo, and the lord of
the afeendant, or fifth, in quartile or oppofition of one another, or with
Saturn or Mars, are evident teftimonies of barrennefs.
Sixth houfe.—If the lord of the fixth or planet in the fixth afflict
not the afeendant or the lord' thereof, or the lord of the afeendant be not
ip the fixth, or in its lord’s dignities, or in quartile or oppofition of Sa­
turn
Original from
M C U / D I I P I i r I I D D A D V
234 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
turn or Mars ; or cotnbuftof Sol in the fixth, feventh, or twelfth, houfes;
or the lord of the fixth, or any planet of his nature, be not in the afcen-
dant ; then will the native be healthful, and of a ftrong body, and very
free from difeafes ; and fo contrariwife. If the lord of the fixth or pla­
net therein be in quartile or oppofition of the lord of the afcendant or fe-
cond, or planets therein, or exalted therein, or the lord of the fecond be
in the fixth in quartile oroppo'ition of the lord of the afcendant, or fixth,
the native’s fervants will prove treacherous and thievifh to him ; and fo
on the contrary.
Seventh houfe.—-If the Moon or any light planet tranflate the light of
the lord of the afcendant or planet therein to the lord of the feventh
or planet therein, or there he any mutual reception between the figni­
ficators, either by houfe or pofition, or they apply one to another by
conjunction, fextile, or trine, but efpecially with reception, or the Moon
apply to the conjunction, fextile, or trine, of the lord of the afcendant,
or planet therein, and the fignificators be in fruitful figns, the native
will marry ; fo alfo, if file tranflates the light of Mars to Venus ; and
fo contrariwife. The lord of the afcendant near a partile afpeCt of many
planets, or the lord of the feventh and planets therein, applying jointly to
the lord of the feventh, many planets in the feventh, and they in good
afpeCt with Luna or Venus, or lord of the feventh, are arguments of
marrying more than once j and fo contrariw'ife. The agreement between
both is dilcerned from the quality of the application, reception, tranfla-
tion, pofition, and dignities, of the fignificators ; and in thefe words the
wholebufinefsof public adverfaries is comprehended ; favethat that fignifi-
cator which is ftrongeft, freed, from affliction, mod affifted, and bed po-
fited, (hall overcome, and that perfon fhall live longed.
Eighth houfe.— The lord of the afcendant drong, or in a good houfe,
and in good afpeCt with the lord of the eighth, or planets in the eighth ;
or if Jupiter or Venus be lords of the eighth, or pofited in the cufp
thereof, or Luna tranflates the light of the lord of the eighth, or planet
in the eighth, to the lord of the afcendant, or planets therein, by good
afpedls; or when the lord of the afcendant, the luminaries, lord of the
eighth, or cufp of the eighth, be in violent figns, the native will die a
natural death; but, if the fignificators of death be effentially fortified, and
in the eighth, or in quartile or oppofition of the lord of the afcendant, Sol
and Luna, or planets in the alicendant, and in violent figns, or in oppo­
fition to the afcendant, the native will be.in danger of dying a violent
death. The cufp of the eighth adorned with fixed ftars ot the firft and
fecond magnitude, or with the prefence of Jupiter, Venus, Sol, Luna,
dragon’s head, or part of fortune, or with the good afpeCtof the faid pla­
cets ; or the lord thereof ftrong, free from affliction, and fortified with
Digitized by Google Original from
M n / i / di id i ir i i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 235
the conjunction, textile, or trine, of benevolents, are figns of a good
dowry ; and fo contrariwife.
Ninth houfe.— If the lord of the ninth, or planets in the ninth, be in
mutual reception with the lord of the afcendant, or planets in the atten­
dant, or the Moon or any light planet makes any tranflation, or there be
any pofition or any application between the principal fignificators by
good afpedt, the native will travel, prove a merchant, a fcholar, or cler­
gyman } and, if Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, Luna, the Part of Fortune, or
Dragon’s Head, be there, or the lord of the ninth, or planets therein,
being in good afpedt with any benevolent, the native will be truly religi­
ous, and gain much by any thing he undertakes. The lord of the ninth
in the afcendant, in trine to a planet in the ninth, the fame j but, ifSaturn,
Mars, or the lord of an evil houfe, or Dragon's Tail, be pofited there ; or
the lord thereof be weak, combuft, afflicted, or retrograde ; it forebodes
much evil.
Tenth houfe.—The only figns of honourare theflrengthof thelordsof
the afcendant, medium caeli, and their difpofition either by good applica­
tion, pofition, reception, or tranflation ; or the prefence or good afpedt of
Jupiter, Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna ; or the pofition of the Dragon’s
Head or Part of Fortune in the tenth or eleventh houfes ; the contrary
afpedts fhew difhonour, difgrace, fliame, contempt, and at length endan­
ger a violent death.
Eleventh houfe.— The lord of the eleventh, or any other planet there,
fhew friends; fo alfo, if they be in mutual reception, or pofition, or if
there be any tranflation or application between them and the lord of the
afcendant, or planets therein, or if Jupiter, Venus, Sol, Luna, or Dra­
gon’s Tail, be there, they are arguments of great, noble, generous, and
faithful, friends ; but, if the fignificators have malignant afpedts, and
there be no tranflation, reception, nor pofition, or if Saturn and Mars
or the lord of the twelfth be pofited there, they fhew either few or no
friends, or elfe very bad and falfe ones.
Twelfth houfe.— No planet in the twelfth, nor the lord thereof in
any afpedt with the lord of the afcendant, or planets in the afcendant, or
afcendant itfelf, or the lord of the afcendant not pofited in the twelfth,
or in afpedt with the lord of the twelfth, are arguments of few private
enemies ; but, if the afcendant, its lord, or planets therein, be in conjunc­
tion or evil afpedt with the lord of the twelfth, or Saturn and Mars, and
they lords of evil houfes, or if they be pofited in the afcendant, feventh,
or twelfth houfes, or in combuftion, the native will have many and great
enemies, and be fubjedt to imprifonment, and many other troubles; but
No. 12. 3 I if
Digitized by Goc sle Original from
M P A / V r i D k ' Dl ID I \C I I D D
236 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
if inftead of evil, the afpetts be good, with the fignificators in bad
houfes, the native will be deluded and drawn into troubles through fair
pretences, and his private enemies will always be fuch as outwardly ex-
prefs a kindnefs for him.
GENERAL JU D G M EN TS to be inferred from D IRECTIO N S.
1 The lordof the afeendant to p
r
o
m
i
f
f
. To the afeendant, it figni-
fiesjnuchLhappinefs ; to the fecond houfe or its lord, it has fignification
of fubftance ; to the third or its lord, of journeys ; to the fourth or its
lord, of inheritances ; to the fifth or its lord, of children ; to the fixth
or its lord, of ficknefs and fervants; to the feventh or its lord, wives,
public enemies, and law-fuits ; to the eighth or its lord, death and le­
gacies ; to the ninth or its lord, learning, ecclefiaftical preferment, mer­
chandize, going to fea j to the tenth or its lord, honour, preferment,
office, dignity, trading; to the eleventh or its lord, friends, hopes, and
expectancies; to the twelfth or its lord, imprifonment, and private
enemies.
The lord of the fecond to promiffors. To the fecond, a great encreafe
of wealth and riches j to the third or its lord, gain or lofs by kindred,
neighbours, or travelling; to the fourth or its lord, gain or lofs by houfes,
lands, or parents ; to the fifth or its lord, by children, or by gaming; to
the fixth or its lord, by fervants, or cattle; to the feventh or its lord,
by marriage, women, public enemies, law -fuits; to the eighth or its
lord, by death, or legacies ; to the ninth or its lord, by learning, arts,
fciences, the fea, religion; to the tenth or its lord, by trade, honour,
preferment, or dignity; to the eleventh or its lord, by friends; to the
twelfth or its lord, by great cattle, private enemies, imprifonment ; to
the afeendant or its lord, by the native’s own induftry.
<
The lord ofthe third to promiJJ'ors. To the third, many pleafaot Jour­
neys; to the fourth houfe or its lord, gain by travelling, or to fee his father,
or fome eftate; to the fifth or its lord, travelling for pleafure, or on ac­
count of children ; to the fixth houfe or its lord, journeys about fmall
cattle ; to the feventh or its lord, journeying on fome law-fuit, public
adverfary, or woman ; to the eighth houfe or its lord, concerning fome
legacy, or wife's portion ; to the ninth or its lord, for the fake of reli­
gion, merchandize, learning, or to fee foreign countries ; to the tenth
or its lord, for honour, preferment, trade, or to fee his mother ; to the
eleventh or its lord, to fee a friend, or in hopes of advantage ; to the
twelfth or its lord, becaufe of private enemies, or fear of imprifonment;
to
Original from
Dl ID I Ir I I D D A P V
Digitized by Google
u
u
i
i
i
c
i
i
m
,
v
j
u
u
y
i
t
i
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
i
i
i
l
|
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
v
v
.
i
i
d
u
i
i
u
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/c
n
-^
e
b
b
_
u
b
t:-M
-|J
u
-y
u
u
y
ie
O F A S T R O L O G Y 237
to the afcendant or its lord, for health or pleafure; to the fecond or its
lord, for fubftance or wealth.
The lordof the fourth to promiffors.To the fourt
tances ; to the fifth or its lord, an eftate to fome of the native’s children;
to the fixth or its lord, aneftate to fall to the native from fome relations,
or uncles and aunts by the father’s fide ; to the feventh or its lord, by
marriage, or the law j to the eighth or its lord, by fome legacy or portion
by a wife ; to the ninth or its lord, by learning, trading to fea, the
church, or wife’s kindred ; to the tenth or its lord, by the wife’s fa­
ther, or the king or fome noble or great man ; to the eleventh or its
lord, by means of a friend j to the twelfth or its lord, by dealing in cat­
tle ; to the-afeendant or its lord, by his own induftry ; to the fecond or
its lord, by purchafe ; to the third or its lord, by death of kindred.
The lord of the fifth to promiffors.To the fifth houfe, it gives
native a child; to the fixth or its lord, that his children may become
fervants to him ; to the feventh or its lord, that they may travel, or that
his wife may have another child ; to the eighth or its_ lord, danger of
death, through fome excefs of pleaTure^ to the ninth or its lord, that
the~native will chiefly deTfght in religion, arts, fciences, or the fea; to
the tenth or its lord, ficknefs to the native’s children; to the eleventh or
its lord, the love of a fpecial friend, or the marriage of one of his chil­
dren ; to the twelfth or its lord, the death of a child, or danger thereof,
or a legacy left to i t ; to the afcendant or its lord, the love or hate of the
native’s children to him, or their travelling beyond fea; to the fecond or
its lord, that they thall have honour and renown in the world, and have
fome gifts from their father ; to the third or its lord, that the native
fhall take recreation in the country, and among his kindred ; to the
fourth or its lord, that the native’s children may deal in great cattle, and
have many private enemies.
The lord of the fixth to promiffors. To the fixth houfe, thriving by
trade and hutbandry; to the leventh or its lord, danger of ficknefs
through fome women, or by quarrelling ; to the eighth or its lord, dan­
ger of mortal ficknefs ; to the ninth or its lord, ficknefs at fea, or from
too much ftudy ; to the tenth or its lord, grief for fome difhonour, or
not attaining the honour defired ; to the eleventh or its lord, infection
among cattle, or grief of the native for fome fpecial friend’s fake; to the
twelfth or its lord, lofs of cattle by thieves, ficknefs, or infection ; to
the afcendant or its lord, ficknefs through the native’s own folly j to the
fecond or jts_lord,for want of money, or lot's, of an eftate; lo the third
or its lord, by reafon of fome journey, or unkindnefs of kindred ; to the
fourth or its lord, by reafon of his father, or grief for lofs of inheri­
tance;
Digitized b
> Google Original from
MCIA/ v n D YDl IRI 1 I R R A D V
lz
ui
11d
111,
v
j
u
u
y
i
c
-
u
l
y
i
liz
.
c
u
/
11
u
p
.
/
/
v
v
vv
vv.
i
id
li
i
ili
u
^
l
.
u
i
y
/
d
u
-
c
s
s
_
u
s
c
#
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
23« A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
tance; to the fifth or its lord, from fotne unlawful pkafure, difobedi-
ence, or death of a child.
The lord of the /eventh to promijfors. To the ferenth houfe, fick-
nefs, or illnefs to the native ; to the eighth or its lord, the wife’s por­
tion ; to the ninth or its lord, (he goes into the country, or is concerned
with her kindred ; to the tenth or its lord, takes poffeffion of an inheri­
tance ; to the eleventh or its lord, (he has a child, or comes more into the
hulband's favour ; to the twelfth or its lord, (he is fickly, or (ome way
concerned with her hufband’sprivate enemies ; to the afeendant or its lord,
(be and her hulband become greater friends or enemies than formerly; then
alfo law-fuits either begin or end; to the fecond or its lord, a wife politic
enemy, ora law-fuit proves good or bad to the native’s fubftance ; to the
third or its lord, fhe either goes beyond fea, or takes fome long journey;
to the fourth or its lord, the brings him lands; to the fifth or its lord,
children and friends ; to the fixth or its lord, (he meets with private
enemies.
The lord o f the eighth to promisors. To the-.eighth houfe, legacies ;
to the ninth or its lord, legacies by fome of the wife’s Srelhren, or by a
clergyman ; to the tenth or its lord, by his wife’s father or his own mo­
ther ; to the eleventh or its lord, by fome friend; to the twelfth or its
lord, by fome of his wife’6 uncles or aunts by the father’s fide, or fomeof
his own by the mother’s fide ; to the afeendant or its lord, danger of
death ; to the fecond or its lord, receiving of the wife’s portion ; to the
third or its lord, a legacy by a brother or kinfman ; to the fourth or its
lord, by a father ; to the fifth or its lord, danger of death to a child, or
the falling of an inheritance to i t ; to the fixth or its lord, a dangerous
ficknefs to the native ; to the feventh or its lord, the wife’s dowry, or
legacies by means of a wife.
The lord of the ninth to promiffors. To the ninth houfe, good fuc-
cefs at fea, church preferment; to the tenth or its lord, preferment
and honour by means of learning, the fea, or the church ; to the eleventh
or its lord, that the native gets many friends by his learning and fanftity ;
to the twelfth or its lord, many private enemies ; to the afeendant or its
lord, that the native (hall attain to learning, arts, fciences, or ecclefia-
ftical preferment through his own induftry ; to the fecond or its lord,_by
means of hi6 wealth, and that he may get or lofe fubftance thereby ; to"*
the third or its lord, that he may attain thofe things by means of a bro­
ther, kinfman, or neighbour, or may travel for improvement; to the
fourth or its lord, by means of a father or of an inheritance, or he may
get an eftate thereby ; to the fifth or its lord, that he (hall be induftri- 1
l ous.
Digitized by Goc ole Original from
MCW/ vr\Dll' Dl ID I Ir I I B D A R V
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 239
oars, and delight in the education of his children ; to the fixth or its lord,
ficknefs through too much ftudy, or care for bufinefs; to the feventh
or its lord, church preferment by means of a wife or woman ; to the
eighth or its lord, by means of her fortune; or danger of death for fome
mifdemeanor.
The lord of thetenth to p
r
o
m
i
j
f
o
r
s
.
To the tenth
eminent honour and preferment } to the eleventh houfe or its lord, pre­
ferment through friends, and that he fhall attain honourable friends by
his preferment; if he be a tradefman, he will gain much thereby, through
his friends and acquaintance, and fo on, conjideratis ; to the
twelfth or its lord, dithoncur and lofs, or danger of imprifonment by
means of a private enemy ; jo the afeendant o.r its lord, honour, glory, or
dignity, by his. own induftry ; to the fecond or its lord, by means of
money ; to the third or its lord, by travel, kindred, neighbours, or the
like; to the fourth or its lord, by means of a father, or an inheritance ;
to the fifth or its lord, by means of children, or pleafant companions; to
the fixth or its lord, by means of a fervant; to the feventh or its lord,
by a wife, or fome woman ; to the eighth or its lord, by a legacy, or
wife’s portion ; to the ninth or its lord, by the fea, merchandize, the
church, arts, fciences, &c.
The lord of the eleventh houfe to p
To the eleven
Aire friends ; to the twelfth or its lord, friendlhip from enemies; to
the afeendant or its lord, endeared friends for the native’s own fake; to
the_fecond or its lord, profitable friends to the third or its lord,
friendlKip^'Tundred, brethren, or neighbours ; to the fourth or its lord,
friends by means of an eftate ; to the fifth or its lord, by means of jo­
vial companions, or children ; to the fixth or its lord, by means of a fer­
vant ; to the feventh or its lord, by a wife, or the reconciliation of an
enemy; to the eighth or its lord, legacies by means of a friend, alfo
honourable friends; to the ninth or its lord, friendlhip by reafon of the
church, fea, arts, fciences, merchandize, &c. alfo religious friends; to the
tenth or its lord, the friendlhip of the king, queen, or fome nobleman;
honourable friends, and fuch as are friends to him by reafon of his pro-
felfion, dignity, or greatnefs.
The lord of the twelfth to promiJJ'ors. To the twelfth houfe, pri­
vate enemies; to the afeendant or its lord, danger of imprifonment;
to the fecond or its lord, lofs or gain of fubftance by private enemies or
by cattle ; to the third or its lord, enemies amongft kindred or relations;
to the fourth or its lord, prejudice to inheritances ; to the fifth houfe
or its lord, ficknefs, falfity of children ; to the fixth houfe or its lord.
No. 12. 3 K • lofs
Digitized by Google Original from
M C U / V n O V Dl ID I I r I I D R A D V
240 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
lofs of cattle by robbery or the like * to the feventh or its lord, death
of private enemies j to the eighth or its lord, gifts or legacies ; to the
ninth or_ its lord, enemies among churchmen, merchants, and learned
meh'j to the tenth or its lord, the notice of great and noble men, or
lofTof credit; to the eleventh or its lord, lofs of friends, or that friends
may become enemies.
r Thefe directions may either fignify good or evil to thofe things which
I
'we have fpecified them to fignify, according to the nature and quality of
the promiflor ; for, if the direction was to the fextile or trine of the pro-
miftcr, without doubt the things promifed by that direction may be
eminently good; if to the quartile or oppofition, very bad } and, if to
the conjunction, then according to the nature and quality of the planet,
and the houfes he is lord of, be he good or evil.
As the afcendant fignifies the body, mind, and life } the fecond, ef-
tate and fubftance} and the tenth, preferment, credit, trade, and favour of
great men } fo alfo Sol, Luna, and the part of fortune, befides what they
import by being pofited in or lords of any particular houfe, fignify the
body, mind, fubftance, life, health, dignity, offices, affections, eftate,
fortune, and friendfhip, of great perfons. Thefe things being under-
ftood, he that would truly judge of the eflfeCts of dire&ions, ought
to confider the true fignification of the fignificator, of the promit-
tor, and of the houfe f firft, what they fignify eflentially, and what ac­
cidentally } fecondly, what by domination, and what by pofition; for
thofe things fignified by the fignificator fhall either be augmented or di-
minifhed, preferved or deftroyed, ftrengthencd or weakened, attained or
loft, according, firft, as the houfe or point where the direction falls is
fortified or vitiated, by the prefence or beams of good or evil ftars; fe*
condly, according to the eminency of the fignificator ; and, laftly, as the
promiflor is good or bad, ftrong or weak.—Therefore the fignificator
fignifies the thing promifed j the houfe in which the direction falls, its
relation or quality } and the promiflor, the means of the accomplilhment}
wherein muft be confidered the radical fortitudes of both, for accordingly
the effeCts of the direction will operate, and be durable, whether good
or evil, till this or fome other fignificator meets with another promiflor,
& e contrario i wherein note, that, if the fignificator be ftrong, the thing
promifed will be very good and great} which, if the promiflor anfwers
in ftrength, in the direCtion will glorioufly appear; but, if the promiflor be
weak or mean, the native may attain the thing fignified, but not without
great delay, labour, care, and to il; but contrariwife, if the fignificator be
weak;
Digitized by Google Original from
m p a / D i i m i r i i b b a p v
'o
u
u
y
it
J
-
u
iy
iu
z
.e
u
/
i
n
i
|
j
.
7
/vvvvvv.i
i
d
i
i
n
u
u
^
l
.
u
i
y
/c
n
_
c
e
^
b
_
u
b
e
-w
-p
u
-
y
u
u
y
ie
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 241
weak j for then the matter will not be great nor eminent, let the promif-
fbr be what it will.
If the fignificator difpofes of the place of the diredion, though an
evil one, the promiflor will not do fo much hurt as it otherwife would ;
but, if the promiflor be difpofer of the place of an evil direction, it will
then operate with double force, according to the greatnefs of its malig­
nity. But, if another planet difpofes of the place of the direction, then,
according as that planet fympathizes with the fignificator, either by na­
ture, body, or beams, fo the good or evil fignified by the direction
(hall be increafed or diminifhed.
If Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, be fignificators, they will not be fo much
impedited by evil promifiors as the other planets are $ but, whenever they
are promiflors, and afRided by malefic afpeds, they effed what they
portend with violence.
If two diredions, the one good, the other evil, fhall operate at one and
the fame tim e; unlefs they are diametrically oppofite one to another, the
effeds of both will appear, but that moft apparently which coheres with
the revolution of the year.
The fignificator and promiflor (hall fympathize together; and, if the
good diredion fhall fall in fextile to the radical place of the fignificator,
or near the body of an eminent fixed ftar, cohering in nature j that di--
redion will famoufly manifefl: its influence; for diredions to the bodies
of fixed ftars of the firft, fecond, or third, magnitude, according as they
in nature agree or difagree with the fignificator, fo they will fuddenly and
unexpectedly either help or impede him, and chiefly in and by thole things
fignified by the houfc in which the diredion falls.
J U D G M E N T S to be inferred from T R A N S I T S .
Tranfits of good planets by good places or promifiors fignify good, but
by. evil places, evil j and fo contrariwife. And whatfoever we have be­
fore faid of diredions, the fame things, in an inferior degree, are to be
underftood of tranfits, with this difference, that, whereas diredionsfig-
nify the good or evil to be eminent, tranfits fignify much frnaller mat­
ters of the fame kind ; and whereas the force or efieds of a diredion laft»
long, the effeds of a tranfit are generally over as loon as the tranfit j the
one oftentimes lading years, the other but days or weeks at inofl.
B
ut
D
2 Digitized by Got. ole Original from
M P \ A / V f l D t ' Dl ID I I r I I D R A D V
2,J2 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
But the tranfits of the fupcriors, as Saturn and Jupiter, are very emi­
nently to be confidered, for they never pafs without obvious effefts, which
often laft a whole year, he they good or evil.; for, if they be lords of ill
houfes, or radically in an ill houfe, if they tranfit the afcendant, the
nuartile, or oppofition, or place of its lord, they threaten life ; if the
fecond or its lord, the fubftance ; if the third or its lord, journeys ; if
the fourth or its lord, danger to the father, or lofs df inheritance ; if the
fifth or its lord, lofs by gaming, and death of children ; if the fixth or its
lord, death of cattle; if the feventh or its lord, ficknefs of the wife;
if the eighth or its lord, lofs of fubftance, becaufe they caft their op­
pofition unto the fecond ; if the ninth or its lord, lofs at Tea, robbing by
land, envy of churchmen ; if the tenth or its lord, the king’s difplea-
fure if a courtier, but lofs of trade if a tradefman ; If the eleventh or its
lord, evil friends, or their affliction, the lofs of hopes ; if the twelfth or
its lord, death, and lofs by cattle.
Obferve on what day the moon or other planets caft their trine or
Textile to the cufp of the fecond, or tranfit the trine or Textile of its lord,
or planet near its cufp, or caft their trine or Textile to the part of fortune,
for thofe days will be good to the native, and very profitable ; and, if
he mind his bufinefs, he may then have-aftonithing fuccefs ; but thofe
days in which the faid planets tranfit the quartile or oppofition will be as
bad, wherein, if he lofes not money, he is fure to get none; and this I
have found more than a thoufand times true ; the fame if an evil planet
tranfits the conjunction of the lord of the fecond or part of fortune ; but
the tranfits of a good planet to their conjunction are advantageous.
Saturn and Jupiter, if they be lords of good houfes, and tranfit the
good afpeCt or conjunction of any fignificator, with whom they agree in
nature, or were radically in good afpeCt with, fignify much good.
If good planets .or the lord of the afcendant tranfit the medium coeli,
or place of its lord, or its Textile or trine, the native gets honour, or
trade, and, if he be in purfuit of any preferment, he attains it.
The lord of the afcendant, tranfiting the afcendant or his radical place,
Thews health to the native; the fecond, or the conjunction, Textile, or
trine, of its lord, gain ; the third, or conjunction, Textile, or trine, of its lord,
good journeys, and the friendfliip of kindred and neighbours, &c.
The lord of the fecond tranfiting the cufp thereof, or his radical place,
denotes gain; the third houfe, or the conjunction, Textile, or trine, of its
lord, or planet therein, (hews gain by travelling, neighbours, kindred, &c.
i The
Digitized by Gck gle Original from
W C \ A / D I I D I I r I I D D A D V
O F - A S T R O L O G Y . 243
The tranfits of the Moon difeover all things, whether good or evil,
■which happen to a man daily, through the whole courfe of his life ; her
application to, or tranfits of, fextiles and trines, ffiew good ; of quartiles
and oppofitions, evil, concerning all thofe things fignified by that houfe
in which the tranfit is made; where, if fhe be fignificatrix, the good or
evil will alfo fall in part upon the things fignified by her, according to
the houfe (he was lady of, or pofited in the radix ; but, if not, the good
or evil will fall upon thofe things fignified by the fignificator which is
tranfited.
J U D G M E N T S to be inferred from R E V O L U T I O N S .
Thejudgments of a revolution are eafy to be determinied, by confider-
ing in what houfe and fign in the revolution the radical fignificators are
pofited ; for according to thofe revolutional pofitions and configurations
we arc to judge. So that, if the lord of the fecond houfe be in the third, it
iliewsgain to come either by travel, or by kindred, or neighbours; and, if
he be alfo in fextile or trine with the lord of the third in the radix, the
fame; if with the lord of the fourth, by a father; if in the medium caeli,
or in conjunction, fextile, or trine, with his radical lord, gain by trade,
office, preferment, or noblemen. Hence it appears, that the fignificator of
fubftance in a revolution is not the lord of the fecond in the revolution,
but the lord of the fecond in the radix; the fignificator of lands is not
the lord of the fourth in the revolution, but the lord of the fourth in the
radix ; the fame is to be underftoodof the reft; but, if the fame fign which
afeended radically afeends in the revolution, its e f f e c t s will be the more
firm, becaufe the fignificators are the fame; the like, if the fame planets
which were lords of the feveral houfes in the radix be lords of the fame
in the revolution, though they poffefs not the fame fign.
Whatfoever good or evil i6 prefaged unto the native, either by direc­
tion, tranfit, or revolution, we are to meafure thegreatnefs thereof, ac­
cording to the radical ftrength or fortitudes of jhe fignificators, compar­
ed with their ftrength or fortitudes at the time of direction ; where, if
they are radically ftrong, the good or evil will be great and permanent,
the which is confirmed if they be ftrong alfo at the time of direction or
tranfit; if radically weak, the good or evil will but meanly manifeft it-
felf; and fcarcely at all, if weak at the"time of direction or tranfit; but,
if radically weak, and ftrong at the time of the direction or tranfit, the
effeCts thereof may appear much beyond the expectation of the native,
but will not be very durable.
No. 12. 3 L The
Original from
M cw u v n e t ' di 1p 1 i r i i d d a d v
Digitized by Google
The S I G N I F I C A T I O N of feveral F I X E D S T A R S in
N A T I V I T I E S .
The fignificator of life or manners, joined to Caput Algol, makes the
native furly and choleric, and {hews danger of fudden death. To the
Pleiades, it {hews wantonnefs, ambition, and fcorn. To Aldebaran,
courage in war, and a martial inclination j the lord of the afeendant and the
Moon or Saturn in conjunction with this ftar, {hews a murderer, or one
that bears a very wicked mind. To Hircus, {hews curiofity, one defiring
novelties ; yet a careful and fteady perfon. To Cingula Orionis, a {harp
memory and underltanding, one induftrious. To Syrius, an angry, proud,
fancy, giddy, imprudent, perfon. To Hercules, fubtilty, craft, bold-
nefs, and cruelty. To Regulus, greatnefs of fpirit, a generous and mag­
nanimous mind. One ambitious of rule and dominion. To Antares, an
unruly rafli perfon, and one likely to ruin himfelf by his obftinacy. To
Arifta, a fweet, noble, generous, foul, a lover of arts and fciences, and,
if Mercury be with it, a curious inventor of rare things ; but,'if Saturn,
a violent rigid fellow, and fometimes a fool. To Aquila, boldnefs, con­
fidence, valour, but a wicked perfon. To Cauda Delphina, one delight­
ing in fports, games, {hooting, hunting, and the like. The fignifica­
tor of fubftance, or Cufp of the fecond, part of fortune, or its difpofitor,
in conjunction with Regulus, or with Arifta, {hew much riches.
The fignificators of fubftance, part of fortune, or its lord, in conjunc­
tion with Aldebaran or Caput Algol, {hew lofs of eftate, and poverty.
The Sun or Moon with the Pleiades or Praefepe, Antares, or Deneb, the
native will fuffer fotnc hurt or defeCt in his eyes j and it is incurable if
that light be angular. The Moon in conjunction with Cingula Orionis,
and combuft, thews blindnefs of one eye at leaft. The fignificators of ho­
nour in conjunction, or within five degrees of conjunction forward or back­
ward, with Aldebaran, or with Hercules, Regulus, Arifta, Lanx Bore­
alis, or Antares, {hew great honour and preferment. The Sun or Moon
in conjunction with the Pleiades, or the Hyades, {hews military prefer­
ment; the fame if thofe ftars culminate. Caput Algol culminating, gives
the native authority over others j fo alfo Aldebaran, or Antares, in con­
junction of Sol or Luna in the afeendant, or medium coeli, give the native
honour, but with many difficulties and cafualties. Arifta afeenrding or
culminating, gives the native religious preferment. Fomahaut and Ri-
gel in the afeendant, or medium coeli, give an immortal name. Regulus,
ArCturus, or Humerus Orionis, in conjunction of Sol, Luna, or Jupiter,
in the tenth, give ample fortunes, and very great preferment. Syrius,
or Procyon, in conjunction with Sol in the afeendant or tenth, gives royal
preferment and favour;
Original from
m c u / D i i m i r i i b b a b v
Digitized by Got. sle
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 245
The luminaries, one or both in conjunction with Caput Algol, or
with Aldebaran, Hercules, Humerus Orionis, or Antares, prefage a vio*
lent death. Sol in conjunction with Caput Algol, in the eighth, and
his difpofitor in quartile or oppofition to Mars, the native will be in dan­
ger of lofing his head ; if the light culminates, he may die by fome wound.
Luna with Hercules, or ArCturus in the afcendant, feventh or tenth, in
conjunction with Mars, the native will be in danger of being fuffbcated.
Luna with Antares, and Mars in the fourth, feventh, eleventh, or
twelfth, houfes, with Aldebaran, the native will die by the fword, or by
a blow, or a fudden fall. Luna with Antares in oppofition of Saturn
with Aldebaran, (hews, that, if the native be not hanged, he will at leaffc
die a violent death. Saturn or Mars with Caput Algol, and Luna with
Deneb, he dies by the fentence of the judge. The Moon with Cor Hy­
dra, affliCled by Saturn or Mars, he will be in danger of poil'on, or of
drowning; and, if the infortune be angular, it is fo much the more certain.
The Moon with Procyon, and Sol or Mars with Lucida Vulturis, or Fo-
mahaut, or Ultima in dorfo Capricorni, fhews danger of being bit by aveno­
mous beaft. The Moon with Syrius and Saturn, or Mars with Ultima in
ala Pegafi, a violent death by the fury of violent hearts, or martial men.
The Moon with Cingula Orionis and Saturn, or wirh Caput Hercules,
or Antares, fhews the native will be in danger of perifhing by water, or by
wicked perfons. The Moon with the Pleiades, and Saturn or Mars with
Regulus, fhews the lofs of one or both the eyes: and this judgment is
confirmed, if Luna at the fame time be combuft.
The Pleiades in conjunction with Mars, and Regulus with Saturn, arc
eminent fignifications of a violent and untimely death. Fixed ftars of
the firft magnitude near the cufp of the feventh, fhew a good and rich
wife; but her conditions will much fympathize with the nature of the
ftars. Significators joined with fixed liars of the firft or fecond magnitude,
near the ecliptic, fhew great preferment, and eminent honours. Fixed
ftars of the nature of Saturn in conjunction with Sol, involves the native
in many miferies. Fixed ftars of the nature of Mars and Sol, or Mercury
and Luna, give glory and renown ; of the nature of Jupiter and Venus, or
Mercury and Venus, honour and wealth. Fixed ftars in angles, give
admirable preferment, and many great gifts ; and elevate from poverty to
an extreme height of fortune.
The SIG N IFICA TIO N of FIXED STARS in DIRECTIONS.
The afcendant, a planet therein, or its lord, directed to Ultima in ala
Pegafi, Oculus Tauri borealis, Lucida pedis Gemini, in femore Leonis,
fhew utjto the native good fortune, worldly happinefs; with the love of
f' women.
Digitized by Got gle Original from
M P 1A/ v n B
Y Dl I P I I r I I P R A D V
a
if
in
n
fi-n
r
l-w
-p
^
n
<
;
c
a
-
n
p
/f
i
i
m
<
;
n
m
i
h
p
i
r
aaaaaa
/
/
t
I
tti
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
S
n
n
o
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
246 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
women. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Cador, Pollux, or Prsefepe, wounds
or hurts in the face, arms, or eyes ; imprifonmeat, captivity, banilhment,
or other obfcurity; the native has often fore eyes upon thefe directions;
falls into many troubles through lu d ; engages in quarrels, meets with
k>fs of reputation, and fometimes death itfelf. To the Afelli, a burn­
ing fever, lofs of eye-fight, efpecially the left eye, or forenefs of the
eyes through didillations of (harp rheum j hurts by fierce and violent
beads or quarrels, malicious danders, and other inconveniencies. T o Cin­
gula Orionis, Lanx Borealis, Axilla Sagitarii, CornuCapricorni Audralis,
Tibia dextra Aquarii, denotes legacies by inheritance, gain by jovial men
and things, occafions inordinate love, and gives a kind of gravity. To Al-
debaran, Regulus, from Scorpio, Antares, Humerus prajcedens Orionis,
Humerus fequens Orionis, honour and wealth in a large meafure, edima­
tion among perfons noble and great; yet thefe directions (hew fome dan­
ger to the native's health, and may give him acute fever, or other
violent difeafe. To Arida, honour and renown in the church, ecclefiadical
preferment, applaufe and edimation among all men 3 it makes the native
ingenious, indudrious, honourable, and beloved. To Cauda Leonis,
much worldly happinefs, but accompanied with melancholy, troubles,
end difcontent. To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Cadoris, Genu Pollucis,
Ventre Gemini, or Cynofura, (hews danger of life, honour, or edate, by
evil men, thieves, and the like; yet thefe directions often give the native
polfeffions, inheritances, and legacies. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala
Leonis, Dorfo Leonis, Lanx Audralis, Genu & tibia dextra Ophinci,
Deneb, Ultima in Dorfo Capricorni, Sinider humerus, & cubitus dexter
Aquarii, makes the native folicitous about houfes, poflefiions, buildings,
mines, or the like ; gives him much labour, care, hazard, didurbance,
and vexation, and a melancholy difpofition; with difgrace, (lander, and
(caudal, through women. t ° Hircus, it makes the native eminent in
martial affairs, and dirs him up to valour, making him fubtle, witty,
and difcrect, but a mere diflembler; fpending and wading himfelf upon
luds and wantonnefs, which ruins his credit and edimation, reduces his
trade if hehas any, and at lad brings him tothieving, fwindling, robbing,
and the like defperate purfuits.
The medium cceli, planets therein, or its lord, dire&ed to Ultima in ala
Pegafi, Zona Andromeda, Pes Andromedae, Oculus xauri Borealis, Lu­
cida pedis Gemini, in femore Leonis, or Lucida Coronae, gives the native
honour, glory, and renown, and makes his fortune generally rife by means
of women. x ° the Pleiades, Hyades, Humerus Orionis fequens & pre-
cedens, C..ftor, Pollux, Procyon, or Praefepe, brings the native’s honour into
quedion, wounds his reputation, involves him in many troubles and contro-
verfies j portends danger of a dab, of imprifonmeat or of lome tragical end
1 o f
Diqitized bv.Go ale Original from
MPU/ v n u V Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y , 247
of his life. To the Afelli, Caput Hercules, Marchab, Dexter humerus
Aurig®, forefhew an everlafting wound in the native’s honour, and more
efpecially if the Dragon’s Tail be near them ; he then runs himfelf into
every fpecies of fin and wickednefs. To Cingula Orionis, Lanx Borealis,
Axilla Sagittarii, Cornu Capricorni Auftralis, Tibia dextra Aquarii, Caput
Andromeda, Collo Serpentarii, <hews honour, glory, renown, the favour of
great men, clergymen, ecclefiaftical preferment; and, if a tradefman or mer­
chant, a good trade, and happy returns from fea, with great profit. To Al-
debaran, Frons Scorpii, Antares, Hircus, Syrius; thefe are profperous di­
rections, and exalt the native infinitely, both in wealth and honour; he
proves of an ingenious, magnanimous, and noble, mind; gains favour from
princes and noblemen, and authority over others; becomes governor over
an army, town, fort, or caftle; and performs great aCtions with honour
and applaufe. To Rigel, Arifta, Regulus, Arclurus, Fomahaut; thefe
are the beft directions that can ever happen to any native, for they not
only raife him to honour, glory, renown, and wealth, to the enjoyment
of pleafure and riches, and to the favour of kings, princes, prelates, and
eminent ladies; to power, authority, and dominion, with a healthful
conftitution of body ; but alfo crown him with an immortal name. To
Cauda Leonis, Caput Algol, Cor Hydra, extreme danger by reafon of
murder, robbery, or fome fudden death, from the hands of others ; or
the native aCiing the fame upon others ; thefe are very evil directions.
To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu Pollucis, Ventre Gemi­
ni, Cynofura, finifter humerus & dexter cubitus Aquarii, Lucida Vul-
turis, Scheat Pegafi, Cauda Ceti Auftralis, fhew unto the native many
troubles, ftrife, contention, much dilhonour, the lofs of the favour of
fome great or noble man, or eminent friend; gives the native many ene­
mies, and much difcontcnt. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala Leonis, Lanx
Auftralis, genu et tibia dextra Ophinci, Deneb, Ultima in Dorfo Capri­
corn*!, foreftiew ftrife and contention with ancient men, lofs of eftate,
or good name; the falfity of eminent and ancient friends, with many
other troubles, if not imprifonment. To the fecond ftar in ala Siniftra
Leonis, Lucida Perfei, Dorfo Leonis, Vindemiatrix, honour and preferment
among fcholars, learned men, and governors of towns or cities ; it may
be the native may become mafter of a fchool in the country, or fellow of
a college in the univerfity, or a magiftrate in a city or town corporate.
The fecond houfe, its lord, or planets therein, to Ultima in ala Pegafi,
Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lucida pedis Gemini, in femore Leonis, fliew an
increafe of the native’s fubftance. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Caftor, Pol­
lux, Prajfepe, lofs of fubftance and eftate by quarrelling, contention, en­
vious neighbours, kindred or relations, tedious and vexatious law-fuits, and
whoredom. To the Afelli, thefe are the worft of all directions, for they
No. 12. 3 M fignify
Digitized by Go<.'2le Original from
M P A / V n D f c ' Dl ID I ICI ID D A R V
248 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
fignify the confumption of an eftate, though it confifted of mountains o f
gold. To Cingula Orionis, Lanx Borealis, Axilla Sagittarii, Cornu Ca-
pricorni Auftralis, tibia dextra Aquarii, an irrcreafe of fubftance, great
gains, gifts, legacies, and augmentation of wealth, by the means of great
ladies and honourable women. To Aldebaran, Regulus, Frons Scorpii,
Antares, Humerus praecedens Orionis, Humerus fequens Orionis : an aug­
mentation of fubftance by honours, preferments, or fome office or dig­
nity, by the means of great and noble perfons ; by military perfons, 6cc.
To Arifta, an increafe of fubftance by means of the church, ecclefiaf-
tical perfons, or to ecclefiaftical preferment by ingenuity, induftry, and
honourable women. To Cauda Leonis, an increafe of wealth, but witb
much care, labour, and forrow ; if the direction happen near the dragon’s-
tail, or the quartile or oppofition of Saturn or Mars, it proves almoft
fatal to the native’s eftate. To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu
Pollucis, Ventre Gemini, Cynofura, an evil and hurtful time, a lime of
lofs, of cares, of forrows, troubles, and vexations, the native’s eftate waftes.
he knows not how. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala Leonis, Dorfo Leonis,.
Lanx Auftralis, genu 6c tibia dextra Ophinci,, Dcneb, Ultimo in dorfo
Capricosni, finiller humerus 6c cubitus dexter Aquarii, gain by houfes,
lands, inheritances, by buying and felling of them, 6cc. yet with care,
pains, induftry, and much labour- To H ircus: this lhews gain by mar­
tial men and things, arts, fciences, and the like ; if the direction falls in
the third, by kindred, neighbours, friends, travels, religious affairs, 6cc.
The Sun to the laft ftar in Ala Pegafi, Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lucida
Pedis Gemini, in femore Leonis, (hews the beginning of good fortune,
martial command, and warlike honour; but in the end the native lofts all
again, honour, eftate, and liberty. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Caftor,
Pollux, Prsefepe, dangerous and violent difeafes, contentions, quarrellings,
he commits murders, rapes, or other infolencies; he will be in danger of
death by the fhot of a gun, the caft of a ftone, or a ftab, or may be be­
headed, or baniffied, or wrecked j I have known thefe directions to caufc
violent fevers; and Sol to the Pleiades, a peftilential difeafeof which the
native afterwards died ; but to Prasfepe, danger of being murdered ; to>
the Afelli, ficknefs, and fharp burning fevers ; in danger of fire, lofs of
honour and fortune mifchiefs from- martial men ; the native may be in­
danger of hanging, beheading, or imprifonment- To Cingula Orionis,
Lanx Borealis, Axilla Sagittarii, Cornu Capricorni Auftralis, tibia dex­
tra Aquarii, thefe fignify a noble, healthful, pleafant, and profitable,
tim e, and all things go according to the native’s defire.— —To Al­
debaran,. Regulus, frons Scorpio, Antares, Humerus praecedens 6c
fequens Orionis t. thefe directions prefage ficknefs to the native, it
may
Digitized by Google
/
Original from
M c i h
i d i i d i i r ii d d a
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 2 4 9
may be Tome violent or putrid fever; they often exalt him to the top of
honour and preferment, but make him faftiousand proud, and thereby en­
danger the lofs of all his happinefs. To Arifta: this certainly gives the
native eminent honours, with a great augmentation of his fortune and
eftate; if Arifta culminates, and the Sun comes to it by direction, it
fhews ecclefiaftical preferment, or fome eminent place under govern­
ment. To Cauda Leonis, though no very good direction, yet it aug­
ments the native’s eftate, and raifes him to fome honour, but withal de-
ftroys it again, caufing much melancholy, and difeafes from thence. To’
Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu Pollucis, Ventre Gemini),
Cynofura : thefe directions forethew much evil to the native’s body, ef­
tate, honour, and liberty }
and betoken, if not the deftruction, yet the
injury, of them all, as ficknefs, lofs of money, fcandal, and danger of im-
prifonment. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala Leonis, Dorfo Leonis, Lanx
Auftralis, genu & tibia dextra Ophinci, Deneb, Ultima in dorfo Capri-
corni, Sinrfter Humerus, & Cubitus dexter Aquarii j thefe directions pre­
cipitate the native’s honour and credit, and make him go under many
evil reports, to his great prejudice. To Hircus, it thews martial prefer­
ment, honour in war, exalts the native both in wealth and dignity,,
makes him ingenious, and apt to find out many rare inventions.
The Moon to thelaft ftar in AlaPegafi, Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lucida*
Pedis Gemini, in femore Leonis, forefhews a healthful time, with aug­
mentation of wealth and honour. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Caftor, Pol­
lux, or Praefepe, make the native fuffer the fcandal of evil tongues,
vexes and afflicts him with crofs neighbours, law-fuits, and other trou­
bles. To the Afelli: this direction afflicts the body with many evils
and-, if it falls near theoppofition of Saturn and Mars, or the Sun, it is
much if the native be not blind j or have fome continual diftemper in.
the eyes, or pains in the head. To Cingula Orionis, Lanx Borealis, Ax­
illa Sagittarii, Cornu Capricorni Auftralis, Tibia dextra Aquarii, new
friends, the acquaintance of ladies and noble women, and gifts by their
means. To Aldebaran, Regulus, Frons Scorpii, Antares, Humerus pre-
eedens & fequens Orionis ; thefe directions forelhew honour, glory,,
renown, and wealth from the king and other noble perfons, give the na­
tive a command over others,, and make him famous in his generation.
To Arifta, honour, glory, and preferment both in church and ftate, the
overcoming of an adverfary j dominion over the common people, and
gain by them. To Cauda Leonis, gives honour, and a good eftima-
tion among the vulgar, but withal threatens fcandal, lofs, and con­
tempt. To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu Pollucis, Ventre
Gemini, Cynofura, fcandal, odium, and feorn even of the common fort
the ill will of fome eminent lady or woman.3. danger of thieves, and
fuch-
Original from
MC\A/ V
r\B
lf m I DI i r I ID
250 A N I L L U S ’t ’fc-A T I O N
fuch like perfons. To Lucida colli Leonis; ala Lconis, dorfo Leonis*
Lanx auftralis, Genu & tibia dextra Ophinci, Dencb, Ultima in donfo Ca-
pricorni, finifter humerus & cuKifkis dfcxter Aquarii j thefe are evil di­
rections, giving the native melancholy difeafes, efjpecially in thofe parts
fignified by the fign in which the ftar is ; he goes alfo under fcandal and
reproach. To Hircus, is a very noble direction, and may fignify the ad*
vancement of the native in all things, chiefly in military affairs j yet in­
volves him in feveral vices and troubles with women; and bids him be­
ware of fome fevere wound by a fall,- blow, or ftab. The fignifications
of the part of fortune, being direCted in like manner, are altogether the
fame with what we hinted in the directions of the fecond houfe.
' •• f
In all thefe directions we muft have great regard both tb the fign and the
houfe. In directions which concern the body, we have refpeCt to the fign,
becaufe that tnoft commonly indicates the part affliCled ; fo alfo does the
houfe ;*for, if the direction falls in the afcendant, the affliction falls in the
head, as on the eyes, nofe, ears, or brain ; if in the fecond, in the throat,
«&c. In directions which concern the eftale, honour, or fortune, we
chiefly take notice of the houfe, for that indicates the means by which the
thing fhall be attained ; the nature of the flar, the quality of theperfon;
if in the third, by a kinfman, or by travel ; if in the feventh, by a wife,
or woman.
#
In directing any planet to thefe fixed ftars, confider whether the flar
fympathizes with the fignificator in nature and quality, or n o t; if it does,
the direction may be good, although it be to an evil ftar; for fweet to fwcet
is fweet; like to like breeds no difcord ; an union and agreement of natures
takes away the evil effects ; for, if the lord of the afcendant was Saturn,
and he fhould be directed to Cauda Leonis, a ftar of his own nature, this
could be no evil direction, nor any way affliCl the native either in .body
or eflate; but would have famous and glorious effeCts, both for health and
wealth, according to the place it falls in. In thefe directions we are
principally to regard the magnitude of the ftar; for ftars only.of the firfl
magnitudeprefage things eminently glorious or dangeroufly deftructive;
and thofe which are of the fecond come very near them. Then the place
o f the direction i6 to be noted; for, if it falls in an angle, the direction
will not only be famous and eminent, but alfo manifeft itfelf with a great
deal of life and vigour, and that on a fudden ; in a fuccedent houfe, the
effects will be more languid ; in a cadent, not only weak and flow, but it
may be a queftion whether they will ever operate at all. Regard muft
alfo be had to the latitude ; for ftars having fouth latitude operate not
fo much upon our northern hemifphere as thofe which have north
thofe which have no latitude fhew their effect, be they good o f evil,
l with
%
Original from
M P / i f v n e t ' d i i m i r i i d d a d v
Digitized by Goosle
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 251
with ftriCt equality $ and thofe which have north latitude manrfeft their
force with great vigour.
The fign alfo in which the ftar is pofited is much to be confidered ; for
fixed ftars in cardinal figns exceed the others in power by fo much as
their place is more excellent and remarkable. And if a direction to any
eminent fixed ftar falls in fextile or trine to the places of any of the for­
tunes or of the luminaries, or coheres with any other eminent direction
at or near the fame time to the body or afpeCt of any planet of the nature
of the fame ftar, the effects will not only be indubitably evident, but
alfo very ftriking and wonderful.
The durability of their effect remains only to be confidered ; wherein
muft be noticed, whether there be a continued feries of directions attend­
ing, of the fame purport and effect j for, if there be, and nothing contra­
dicts their influence, the effects of them will, we may fafely conclude,
be durable and lading. f
APHORISM S for guiding the JU D G M EN T upon N A TIV ITIES and
HORARY QUESTIONS.
Confider the degree afcending, Sol and Luna ; and fee whether they are
afflicted, or not j if they areextremely afflicted, or either of them, it is an
argument of fhort life, and therefore it will be in vain to form long di­
rections for fuch a nativity. Thefc points are faid to be afflicted or un-
fortunate, when either the conjunction, quartile, or oppofition, of the
infortunes vitiate their places, or when many violent fixed ftars of the
nature of the lord of the eighth afcend with the degree afcending or with
the luminaries.
Confider the lord of the afcendant alfo; for, if he be eflentially ftrong,
free from the affliction of the infortunes, not'combuft nor retrograde, nor
impedited by the lord of the fourth, fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, but
encreafing in number, light, and motion, it fhews longlife. If the Sun
in a birth by day, or the Moon in a birth by night, be ftrong, free from
affliction, and afiifted by the fortunes, it (hews long life; but thofe who
are born exactly upon the very change or full of the Moon feldom live
long; the Moon befieged between Saturn and Mars argues fhort life.
That planet which has noil dignities eflential and accidental in a
figure is the lord of the geniture, more efpecially if he be lord of the
afcendant alfo.
No. 13. 3 N The
Original from
V n D t ' Dl I Q I i r I I D n
2 j2 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
The planet or planets in the afcendant are the chief fignificators of man*
ners; but, if no planet be in the afcendant, then the planets from which
the Moon feparates, or to which fhe applies, fhall be the fignificators.
The fignificator of manners in Aries, fhews one witty ; in Taurus, one
laborious ; in Gemini, a lover of learning; in Cancer, inconftancy; in Leo#
fobriety and difcretion ; in Virgo, covetoufnefs; in Libra, inconftancy
and conceitednefs; in Scorpio, wifdorn, fubtilty, and boldnefs ; in Sagit­
tarius, valour; in Capricorn, lafcivioufnefs; in Aquaries, complacency and
kindnefs; in Pifces, a mere hypocrite.
Mercury and Luna in conjunction, fextile, or trine, in any fign, (hews
ingenious perfons ; the quartile fttews wit, but more turbulent; the op­
position thews one feditious, ftubbom, imprudent, and deftruCtive. Mer­
cury in Taurus or Capricorn, in a cadent houfe, and retrograde or com-
buft, or afflicted by Saturn or Mars, thews the native to be Ample, and of
rude underftanding. Mercury in his own houfes, or in Aries or Aquaries,
in reception with Mars or Saturn, thews a tharp wit, and one of an admi­
rable invention. Mercury received of the Moon, cither by houfe or ex­
altation, gives a fertile genius. Mercury in conjunction, fextile, or trine,
of Saturn, thews a wary conftant wit; of Jupiter, an honeft upright mind ;
of Mars, a confident opinion ; of Sol, a proud heart; of Venus, a pleafant
w it; and.of Lqna, a ready and piercing wit.
If many planets be ftrong and eflentially fortified, efpecially Saturn,
Jupiter, and Mars, or Sol, the native will enjoy a manifeft and ample for­
tune, live nobly, and in great efteem, above the ordinary quality of his
birth, managing the actions of his whole life with glory and fuccefs; and
this judgment will be more confirmed, if moft or all the planets be effen-
tially fortified at the fame time. But, contrariwife, when moft of the
planets are in their detriment or fall, peregrine, cadent, retrograde, afflict­
ed, or combuft, the native is then continually involved in a thoufand mif-
fortunes, one upon the heels of another, and his whole life is nothing
but a vale of mifery. But a mediocrity .of teftimonies fhews a various for­
tune, fometimes miferable, fometimes extremely happy, according to the
times of evil or good directions.
Saturn fignificator of fubftance fhews riches by building, hufbandry,
gardening; Jupiter, by the church, religion, government, truft, clothing;
Mars, by war, inftruments of war, law, furgery, or phyfic; Sol, by ho­
nour, command, office, dignity, or preferment; Venus, by friends, gifts,
or women ; Mercury, by arts, fciences, learning, oratory, merchandife ;
Luna, by navigation, by the common people, or women.
Digitized by Google Original from
MCIA/ v n o Y Dl ID I IT I ID D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 253
The Moon fortunate in the afcendant gives wealth and eftimation all
the life long. The Sun and Luna in trine, and he in his exaltation, free
from the affliction of Saturn or Mars, are ample teftimonies of a large
fortune ; the fame if Jupiter or Venus be in the fecond. The difjpofitor
of the part of fortune in the eighth, or the lord of the eighth elfentially
fortified in a good houfe, promifes the native an eftate by the death of
friends. The Moon combuft, or in conjunction, quartile, or oppofition,
of Saturn, deftroys an eftate though never fo large, reduces the native
to poverty ; the fame happens if the lord of the fecond be fo.
If the fignificator of fubftance be eflentially fortified, well pofited, free
from affliction, or in a fixed fign, the native’s fubftance will be firm and
durable all his life. An infortune in the fecond, ftrong, fhews, that the
eftate may continue, but with great difficulty; but, if weak, that it will
come to nothing ; if a fortune be there, the native’s eftate will be firm.
If no planet be in the fecond, confider the lord of the fecond, and the dif-
pofitor of the part of fortune, and judge by them, and by their directions
to good or evil promifl'ors. The fignificators of fubftance oriental and
fwift in motion fhew the native will be rich quickly; but occidental, flow
in motion, or both, or retrograde, not till old age.
The lords of the afcendant, and third houfe, in good, afpeCt or mutual
reception, fhews concord among brethren, kindred, and neighbours, but,
if in evil alpeCt, the contrary. If Saturn or Mars be peregrine in the
third, or the Dragon’s Tail be there, the native and his kindred will be at
perpetual variance, and by them he will receive many crofles and lofles.
If Saturn or Mars, or the Dragon’s Tail, be in the third houfe, or in
conjunction, quartile, or oppolition, of the lord of the third, the native
lofes by travel, and will always be in danger of thieves or robbers upon
the highway, and will have many evil neighbours.
The Sun or Moon in Via La&ea, afflicted with the conjunction, quar­
tile, or oppofition, of Saturn and Mars, or with nebulous ftars, portends
bindnefs, if both luminaries affl:Cted ; if the Sun only be afflicted, it is
the right eye; if the Moon, the left. The fame if the Moon be in con­
junction, quartile, or oppofition, with Sol or Saturn, with nebulous ftars,
or if Sol be in conjunction with Mars in the eighth.
The Sun in good afpeCt with Saturn or Jupiter in a diurnal geniture,
or the Moon fo conjoined in a noCturnal, efpecially in the fecond or fourth,
or if they have dominion in the fourth, fignify a good patrimony to de-
fcend to the native, and an augmentation ot his paternal inheritance. But
the Sun afflicted by Mars by day, or by Saturn by night, ana not afliftecl
by the fortunes or Luna by night ; decrealing and afflicted by Saturn or
2 Mars,
Original from
m p a / v n u k ' □ 1 1D 1 ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by Goi gle
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
Mar6, or both ; or if the lord of the fecond, or the fourth houfe or its
lord, be afflicted in like manner; it {hews the native will wade his father’s
eftate and bring it to nothing. The fame if Saturn be in conjunction
with the lord of the fourth in the twelfth ; or the infortunes in the fourth
in conjunction with the lord of the fifth ; fo it is alfo if Mars be in con­
junction with Sol, and peregrine, afflicting the fecond.
In a diurnal genefis, Sol and the lord of the fourth fignify the father,
and the Moon the mother; but, in a noCturnal, Saturn, with the lord of
the fourth, the father; and the Moon the mother. Now, if thefe behold
the afcendant or its lord by fextile or trine, there will be a concord and
love between the native and his parents; but, if by quartileor oppofition,
much ftrife, difeord, and contention. The fignificators which call the
beft or greateft afpect to the afcendant or its lord (hew that the perfon
fignified by them will love the native beft.
Saturn in the fourth, in his houfe or exaltation, direCt, fwift in mo­
tion, and in fextile or trine with Jupiter, Venus, or the lord of the fecond;
'the lord of the fourth in reception with either luminaries, and they in
good afpeCt to the fourth or planets therein ; {hew an ample fortune by
managing quarries, mines of metal, coals, Rones, minerals, &c.
The lord of the afcendant in the fixth or twelfth, and he or the afcen­
dant affli&ed by malefic planets, {hews a fickly perfon. If the fign af-
cending and all the planets be in figns of one triplicit'y, the native will
always be afflicted with difeafes of the nature and quality of that trigon;
if the fiery, with fevers and inflammatione; if the airy, furperfluities and
difeafes of the blood ; if the watery, dropfy, and other watery difeafes;
if the earthy, confumptions, malancholy, and the like.
The Sun in the fixth, feventh, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, and afflicted
or afflicting the lord of the afcendant, gives few years, with much fick-
nefs, and many afflictions. The Moon applying to conjunction of Sol
{hews lean and infirm people, afflicted with fuch difeafes as the phyfician
can neither cure nor difeover. The Moon afflicted by the conjunction,
quartile, or oppofition, of Saturn or Mars, in conjunction with the Dragon’s
Tail in the afcendant or fecond, thews the falling ficknefs, or the native’s
whole life to be fickly; and fixed liars of the nature of Saturn being join­
ed with the luminaries do the fame, making the perfon alfo lean and pale.
Mars in the afcendant thews difeafes in the head, and fears and wounds'
in the face ; Saturn in the medium cceli, fudden hurts by falls, bruifes,
and the like, as alfo lofs of honour ; but, in the afcendant, pains of the
teeth. The Moon afflictedby the oppofition of Saturn, Mars, or Mer­
cury, thews madnefs or folly; the fame if Saturn and Mars bein partile
oppofition, or applying to it from angles.
If
Digitized by Go*, gle Original from
MCWi/ V n D V Dl ID I IT I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Yi 25
If Mercury be lord of the fixth, or the planets in the fixth be ftrong,
efl'entially fortified, and in good afped with the afcendant, orfecond, or
their lords, it (hews that the native’s fervants will be honeft, juft, and
profitable to him ; the fame if the lignificators be angular ; and fo con-
trariwife. A fortunate planet in the fixth or twelfth (hews good fervants,
and profitable; but the Dragon’s Tail, Saturn, or Mars, in the fixth, and
peregrine, denote bafe, fordid, and thievifh, fervants.
%
Planets in the fifth, and the Moon and Venus, or their difpofitors, free
from afflidion ; figns upon the afcendant and fifth, and figns in which
their lords are, being fruitful, fhew many children ; the fame if Venus
or the Moon be in the afcendant; or Jupiter in the feventh. Jupiter or
Venus, or the lord of the fifth, in trine to Luna, in humane or fruitful
figns ; all or moft of the planets in fruitful figns, and in good afped to
the lord of the fifth, or planets therein, fhew a plentiful iffue. Saturn in
the fifth declares ftubborn and undutiful children} Mars, fuch as will be
bold and daring ; but Sol in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, of Saturn
in the fifth or eleventh, (hews barrennefs; the fame if the lord of the fifth
be retrograde, or combuft, or in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, of
Saturn or Mars, and they peregrine. Saturn or Mars, or both, peregrine
in the fifth or eleventh ; Sol in the fifth joined to an infortune; Sol, Sa­
turn, Mars, or Mercury, in quartile or oppofition of Luna in the medium
cceli; Jupiter in oppofition of Saturn or Mars or both ; the lord of the
fifth in the eighth, or twelfth ; or in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition,
of Saturn or Mars ; are all certain arguments that the children will die.
In marriages, obferve the motion of the fignificators; for, if they are
dired and fwift, the native marries early ; but, if retrograde and flow,
or ftationary, they prolong the time very much. The particular time of
marriage is difcerned by dired and converfe directions of the afcendant,
or medium caeli, or their lords ; or the Sun or Moon to the conjundion,
fextile, quartile, or trine, of the lord of the feventh, or planets in the fe­
venth, or by diredions of the afcendant or medium cceli or their lords
to the conjundion, fextile, quartile, or trine, of Jupiter, Sol, Venus, or
Luna ; and, if any of them are in the feventh houfe, or afcendant, con­
joined to many planets, they (hew many wives ; and fo alfo does the lord
of the afcendant in configuration with many. The Moon configurated to
one planet only, (hews but one wife ; and, if the Moon be ftrongeft, the
man out-lives his wife ; but, if the planet with whom the Moon is con­
joined be ftrongeft, he dies firft.
The Moon applying to Saturn, well-affeded, (hews a ferious, induf-
trious, fober, laborious, woman ; but, being ill-affeded, a fufpicious.
No. 13. 3 O crofs.
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
m c \ a/ v n c ^ D i i m 1r i i r b a d v
as 6 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
crofs, envious, froward, woman, indolent and carelefs ; applying to Ju ­
piter wcll-afFedted, a fober, hcneft, godly, religious, chafle, and virtuous,
woman, and a good houfewife ; but, being ill-affedled, the woman may
have virtues, but they are generally clouded ; applying to Mars welN
affedted, it fhews one of a lofty, honourable, open, and generous, mind ;
a true friend, yet fcorning to receive any affront or injury, and one that
will delire to be mailer j but, being ill-affedled, an evil, quarrelfome,
protld, petulant, woman; applying to the Sun, being well-affedted, fliews
an honourable and truly noble creature, full of generofity and humanity,
affedting high and great things ; but, if ill-affecled, fhe will be idle,
vain, foolifh, proud, infulting, and domineering; to Venus well -affedled,
a beautiful, fair, pleafant, civil, courteous, loving, good conditioned, and*
virtuous, woman ; but, if ill-affedled, fhe is an impudent, bold, arro­
gant, prodigal, talkative, luflful, bafe, woman; laftly, the Moon applying
to Mercury well-aftetled, fhews a loving, neat, ingenious, pleafant, well-
l’
poken, careful, woman; but, if ill-affedled, an intruding, prattling,
inconilant, diffembling, turbulent, creature.
The lords of the tenth and feventh, orfecond andfeventh in each others
houfes of the figure, or in mutual reception, fhew a good wife ; but the
lords of the fixth or twelfth in mutual reception, or pofition with the
lord of the feventh, fhew a very mean, obfeure, ill-bred, woman. Sa­
turn or Mars in the feventh, very flrong, fhews a good and rich wife,
yet her fubflance not attainable without trouble; if peregrine there, it
fhews one of low birth, poor, and ill-conditioned j if Jupiter, Sol, or
Venus, be there, the contrary. If the fignificators of man and wife be in
quartile or oppofition of one another, or in quartile or oppofition to the
Moon, there will be many quarrels, and that upon very flight occafions j
the contrary if they be in conjunction, fextile, or trine, or in mutual re­
ception or pofition; or if the Moon makes any tranflation between them
by good afpedt. The lord of the feventh in quartile or oppofition to Sa­
turn or Mars, fhews an evil woman, immodefland fhamelels; and, if the
lord of the feventh be in the twelfth, although in trine with Venus, the
woman will prove inconftant to her hufband.
If Mercury andLuna be in conjundtion or reception, or the lord of
the ninth be in theafeendant, or the lord of the afeendant be in the ninth,
or Mercury or Luna be in the afeendant, third, or ninth, or mutual re­
ception of their lords, or conjundtion with them, the native will tra­
vel beyond fea, or take many long journeys. The caufe of the journey
appears from the nature of the fignificator, and the houfe in which he is
pofited; if Saturn be fignificator, the caufe is from fome inheritance, le­
gacy, or things and commodities faturnine; if Jupiter, the caufe is from
3 religion.
Digitized by Gck ole Original from
M C \ A / V n U t ' D I I D I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 257
religion', ecclefiaftical preferment, honour, or law; the like of the other
planets. If the lignificator be in the afcendant, the native is poffefied with
a natural defire of feeing ftrange countries ; in the fecond, he travels for
a defign of enriching himfelf ; and fo of the other houfes.
If the lord of the ninth be in the afcendant, the native will travel much ;
if in the fecond houfe, he will gain confiderably by his travels ; if in the
third, he will cohabit with ftrange women, and often fhift his reftdence ;
if in the fourth, his parents will have fome occult infirmities, and he will
die on his travels ; if in the fifth, he will have children in another coun­
try ; if in the fixth, he will gain by his flaves or fervants, and his cat­
tle will fall fick in his travels ; if in the feventh, he will obtain a good
and obedient wife. When the fignificators of journeys are efifentially
ftrong, well pofited, and free from afflidion, and in fextile or trine of a
good planet, they denote honour, profperity, and fecurity, in travels,
capax,according to the quality of the perfon ; and contrariwife, if Sa­
turn or Mars afflift the fignificators, it ftiews, in the twelfth houfe,
danger of imprifonment; in the fecond or third, treachery by kindred or
neighbours, or danger by common thieves ; but, in this judgment, Saturn
ftiews rather poverty and want of money ; Mars bodily wound*. The
countries into which the native had beft travel, are chiefly thofe fubjecl to
the figns of the afcendant, fecond, ninth, tenth, aad eleventh ; or thofe
figns in which Jupiter, Venus, Part of Fortune, or Dragon’s Head, are
pofited ; but thofe fubjed to the figns in which the infortunes or Dragon’s
Tail are pofited, will prove unfavourable to the traveller; and fo alfo will
thofe that are fubjed to the figns of the fourth, fixth, feventh, eighth,
or twelfth, houfes.
Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon’s Head, in the ninth, or Saturn or Mars in
the third, oppofite to the ninth, Jupiter being peregrine, cadent, and af-
flided, thews either pernicious fedaries of no religion, or atheifts. But
Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon’s Head, in the ninth, thews a truly reli­
gious perfon; the fame if Sol, Mercury, Luna, or Part of Fortune, be
there in fextile or trine with Jupiter or Venus. If no planets are in the
ninth, confider its lotd and Jupiter ; if they or either of them be efifen-
tially fortified and ftrong, or angular, or in reception with Sol or Luna,
or with the lord of the afcendant or planets therein, or pofited in the af­
cendant, the native will be truly pious, honeft, and religious; and fo con­
trariwife. Saturn in the ninth, efifentially ftrong, ftiews ftrong zeal, chaf-
tity, and faith ; Sol there, (hews piety, and make? an excellent preacher.
If Sol or Jupiter hath dominion in the ninth houfe, or in the afcendant,
and hath dignities in the places of Mercury or Luna, the words of the
native will be lik$ oracles.
The
Original from
M P \ / t / v n u k ' Dl I P I I r I I R R a r v
The fignificators of honour in their houfcs, exaltations, or mutual re*
ception or pofition with the lord of the afcendant, or angular, being alio
free from affliction, bellow on the native honour, glory, trull, and com­
mand. Jupiter, Sol, Venus, or Luna, in the medium cceli, the fame*
more efpecially if they are eflentially fortified. The Sun and Moon in
the degree of their exaltations, not affli&ed, Ihew, capax, the great-
ell preferment. The light of time culminating, and in fextile or trine
with Jupiter and Venus, or with the other light, Ihews great honour.
But thofe who have neither of the luminaries angular, or in a mafculine
fign, or in fextile or trine of Jupiter or Venus, will all their days be ab-
jedt and poor, and of the vulgar fort.
If the planet or planets which have dignities in the places of Sol, Luna,
or fign afcending, lhall be llrong and eflentially fortified, and if it be
Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, oriental, or if it be Venus or Mercury oc­
cidental ; the native lhall raife himfelf, though low, to a very high
condition. So alfo Sol culminating in Aries, Leo, or Sagittarius ; or
Sol and Luna in reception, or in fextile, or trine ; or if the Sun or light
of time be in conjunction with Aldebaran, Regulus, Arilla, Pleiades, An-
tares, Rigel, Hircus, Cor Hydra, ArCturus, Fomahaut, or Marchab,
and more efpecially if thofe liars culminate ajfo, the Sun, Moon, and
Jupiter, in trine with each other; the Sun and Mars in mutual reception,
or in trine from fiery figns; Jupiter, Venus, and Luna, in conjunction or
partile trine, efpecially in angles; Jupiter and Venus in conjunction in
any angle, but chiefly in the tenth, with the Dragon’s Head there; are all
teflimonies of eminent honour.
The Sun in Cancer, the Moon in Scorpio in conjunction with Jupiter,
or in trine with him from Pifces, are arguments of great preferment.
The Moon in the afcendant, near the full, or in conjunction, fextile, or
trine, with Jupiter, Sol, or Venus, or with fixed liars of their nature, and
of the firft magnitude, Ihews great cncreafe of honour and preferment.
Sol or Luna in conjunction with Regulus or Arilla; or in conjunction
with the Dragon’s Head and Jupiter in the tenth, in trine to them, or to
Mars or Venus, will raife the native from obfcurity to, fit with princes.
Whatfoever preferment is fignified, if Saturn or Mars call their quartile
or oppofition to the tenth houfe, its lord, the Sun, or Jupiter, it will be
lollagain. If the lord of the tenth and afcendant apply one to another,
and are both oriental, and in their eflential fortitudes, the native will be
great, and be beloved.
Saturn in the tenth never lets the native enjoy his honour and prefer­
ment long, but calls him down headlong, when leall expected; from
which
Digitized by Goc gle Original from
m c u r v n p ^ di id i ir i i d d a r v
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 259
which deje&ion he never rifes. The lord of the afcendant in Textile or
trine with the Sun, and oriental, or in trine or textile with the lord of
the medium cceli, the native will attain to honour and dignity, and be be­
loved of kings, princes, and noblemen. The lord of the afcendant in the
lign afcending, or in his own dignities, he will rife to honour and efteem
by his own induftry ; more efpecially if he appliesto a planet angular and
in his own exaltation. The quality of the preferment is difcerned from
the planet or planets which apply to the luminaries, or to which the lu­
minaries apply; if Saturn be that planet, preferment comes by means of
an eftate, inheritance, pofieffions, or favour of anceftors; if Jupiter, by
means of virtue, honour, or learning, or honefty, gravity, juftice, reli­
gion, or wealth. If Mars, by valour, or by merit as captain or general
in the army, or by being a phyfician, furgeon, chemift, &c. If Venus,
by courtship, pleafantnefs, or through the means of women. If Mer­
cury, by wit, judgment, oratory, or learning; by the law, merchandize,
&c. wherein alfo confider the houfe in which this planet is. If no planet
beholds the luminaries, or is beheld by them, then confider the planet in
the tenth, and the flrongefl planet there, if there be many; if no planet be
in the tenth, confider the lord of the tenth, and difpofer of the light of
time, or that luminary which is either above the earth or flrongeft, and
judge ut fupra, for if the planets fflewing the preferment be eflentially
ftrong, free from affliction, and affifted by other planets in quartile or
trine, the native’s honour will be permanent, otherwife not.
Mars in his detriment, and in oppofition to the afcendant, fflews an un­
fortunate and infamous man. Mercury in quartile or oppofition to Sa­
turn, caufes an impediment in the tongue or fpeech ; in conjunction,
Textile, or trine,, to Jupiter, makes excellent orators, of great reafon, under-
ftanding, and jultice, and gives him great friends among churchmen and
lawyers; in afpeCt with Mars, he inclines to phyfic, furgcry, chemiftry;
in quartile or oppofition of Sol, to coining money ; in Textile or trine
with Luna, gives him a good underftanding, and inclines him to the
knowledge of things to come, to arts and fciences, as philofophy, phi-
lC*gy, mathematics, medicine, &c. if her application be in Virgo or
Scorpio, the native proves a lover of the mathematics. Mars in afpeCl
with Sol, gives the native power, authority, and magiftracy, making him
famous. Jupiter, Sol, Venus, or Luna, in the eleventh, efientially forti­
fied, and in conjunction, Textile, or trine, with the lord of the afcendant,
fflews great and good friends, and contrariwife if Saturn and Mars be
there and weak. The Dragon’s Tail in the eleventh always fliews falfity
in friends, which is found never to fail; in the third the fame. Fortunes
in the firft, fifth, feventh, ninth, and eleventh, houfes, many friends; in­
fortunes in the twelfth or in angles, many enemies.
No. 13. ' 3 P Thofe
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
n
,
u
u
u
y
i
t
:
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
/
i
t
i
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
:
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
i
d
u
n
u
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/d
L
L
t
:
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
f
f
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
ie
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Thofe planets which are in oppofnion to the luminaries, lord of the as­
cendant, or are pofited in the twelfth houfe, fignify the native’s enemies;
no planets in the twelfth or Seventh, or in oppofition of the luminaries,
few or no enemies. The lord of the afcendant in the Seventh or twelfth,
or the lord of the Seventh or twelfth in the afcendant, argue many enemies.
Thofe planets in feptima, or in oppofition of the luminaries, will difcover
their malice openly ; thofe in the twelfth or cadent, will aft their malice
clofely and cunningly. The lord of the afcendant either difpofing of the
fignificator of enemies, or much ftronger in eflential dignities, and angular,
the native overcomes all his enemies, and contrariwife. Significators of
enemies cadent, peregrine, retrograde, or combuft, argues mean perfons.
Either of the luminaries afflifled by conjun&ion, quartile, or oppofition,
Saturn or Mars in angles, and difpofed of alfo by the Said infortunes, ar­
gues imprifonment; fo if Sol or Luna be in the twelfth in conjunction
with Saturn. Saturn and Mars in conjunction, out of their own digni­
ties, or dignities of the luminaries, the fame; the fame if Sol and Luna be
in conjunction in the eighth, in any fign, except Taurus, Cancer, or Leo.
The lord of the afcendant combuft in the twelfth, imprifonment and ma­
ny Sorrows: in the tenth, death by fentence of a judge : in the eighth,
Sorrows, and an infamous end. The lord of the afcendant in quartile or op­
pofition of the lord of the eighth, or any planet therein, or in conjunction
with evil fixed ftars of the nature of the lord of the eighth, or in the
fourth, fixth, eighth, or twelfth, in conjunction, quartile, or oppofition,
of Saturn, Mars, or combuft, and out of all his eflential dignities, are
all demonftrations of a violent death. If thefe configurations happen in
fiery Signs, it may be by beheading ; in airy figns, hanging; in earthy Signs,
by falls, blows, or the like ; in watery figns, by water or drowning; in
angles, the death will be more honourable; fuccedent, by accidents;
in cadent, very fhameful. If the fignificators of manners be with Ca­
put Medufae, the native will be of a violent nature, even to murder or be
murdered; if with Aldebaran, he will be fierce and given to warlike ac­
tions ; if with the Pleiades, he will be ambitious, turbulent, and libidi­
nous ; if with Cingula Orionis, he will be witty, of great underftanding,
and have a vaft memory; if with Regulus, he will be magnanimous, no­
ble, generous, and aiming at rule and dominion ; if with Antares, he
will be rafh, headftrong, without rule or government, obftinate even to
his own deftruCtion; if with Hercules, he will be rafh, bold, impudent,
cruel, fubtle, crafty, with a (hew of valour and honour; if with Arifta,
he is noble, generous, and brave, of a gentle, affable, and courteous, dif-
pofition, juft, honeft, faithful, true-hearted, ftudious, and ingenious; if
with Lyra, wanton and luxurious; but pretending to gravity and honefty;
if with Aquila, bold, confident, and valiant.
3 Saturn
Digitized by Google Original from
MC\ M V n UV DI I DI Ir I I R E A R V
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 261
Saturn oriental, or in the afcendant, gives a ftature fomewhat above the
middle fize ; occidental, a mean ftature, inclining to brevity. Jupiter ori­
ental gives a tall, large, and comely, perfon; occidental, middle fized, but
large boned and well fet. Mars oriental gives an indifferent large cor-
porature and ftrong body ; occidental, one of a middle fize, but full body.
Sol gives a large and comely corporature; Venus oriental gives a tall,
ftraight, and flender, perfon ; occidental, one fhort and well fet; Mercury
oriental gives acompleat, tall, upright, and flender, body; occidental, one
low and final]. The Moon increafing gives a full, fat, plump perfon,
inclining to tallnefs ; decreafing, a fhort, low, fquat, body. Planets hav­
ing north latitude lhew large and grofs bodies, but of a more dull and
ftuggifh nature; planets having fouth latitude lhew lefs proportion, and
fuch as are nimble and a<ftive. Saturn fhews a long vifage, fwarthy, black,
or tawny, and lowring; Jupiter, a fair, full, comely, vifage. Mars a full,
fun-burnt, or ruddy, vifage. Sol a full round face, high bold forehead,
and tawny complexion; Venus a fair beautiful vifage; Mercury accord­
ing as he is conjoined : of himfelf he gives a long fwarthy complexion ;
Luna full-faced if increafing ;. pale, wan, and long, vifaged, if near her
change. If Saturn is lord of the geniture, or in the afcendant, the na­
tive is melancholy, envious, fearful even of his own fhadow ; if Luna
is in quartile or oppofition of him, he proves ambitious, and tills his ful-
len fancy with glorious conceits; but, if Mars, it is much if he proves not
mad ; if Mercury, an enthufiaft or diviner. If Saturn be in the medium
cceli, it deftroys the native’s honour and fame, though ever fo great, and
he ever fo deferving; fo much the more if he be in quartile or oppofition
to Sol or Jupiter; but, if Jupiter or Venus be there under fortunate di-
reClions, he may with much labour preferve i t ; yet at laft it will be de­
stroyed. Saturn in conjunction with Luna in an angle, though the native
were ever fo rich, yet (hall he be reduced to poverty; fo the Dragon’s Tail
in the fecond deftroys the native’s eftate and fortune, be it never fo great,
and he will be driven to many exigencies and wants; and Saturn or Mars
retrograde, peregrine, and cadent, being in quartile or oppofition to the
fecond houfe or its lord, makes the native perpetually poor. Saturn in or
lord of the afcendant in one man’s nativity, being upon the cul'p of the
feventh in another’s, forelhews perfect hatred, and the latter will be the
injured perfon. Saturn in the afcendant, in Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Ca­
pricorn, or Aquaries, in good afpeCl with Mercury, makes fcholars and
learned men; with Jupiter, divines and lawyers; if he be in the eighth,
in a noClurnal geniture, he forelhews a violent death. Saturn lord of the
feventh, makes the native long before he marries; fcarcely before thirty,
unlefs Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, or Luna, be in the afcendant; or fome
of the other three, and the lord of the afcendant be in good afpeCt of
Luna. Saturn in quartile or oppofition with Sol or Luna from angles,
Digitized by Go*, ole Original from
M P A / V n D f D I I D I I r I I D D A D V
262 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
portends blindnefs; the fame if the luminaries be in quartile or oppofi-
tion of Mars. Saturn in the imum cceli, although in a fortunate gencfis,
forelhews an evil end to the native, though he be a prince.
Jupiter lord of the geniture, or in the afcendant, makes the native of a
noble and brave fpirit, aiming at good and honed things, without the
fenfe or lead imagination of evil. But if either of the luminaries, or
Saturn or Mars, be in quartile or oppofition to him, he proves proud,
treacherous, and a pe^fed villain, who under the notion of fandity may
lhroud a thoufand enormities. Jupiter or Venus pofited in the afcendant
or medium cceli, free from afflidion, makes the native beloved of all forts
of perfons, though his birth be ever fo mean ; and gives him a jud, up­
right, and honed, foul. Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon’s Head, in the
fifth, in a fruitful fign, (hews many children ; and, if Luna be in any good
afped with them alfo, Ihe fhews dill the greater number.
Saturn or Mars in the ninth, and Dragon’s Tail in the afcendant, gene­
rally makes the native an atheidin judgment, though a pried by profef-
fion. Saturn upon the cufp of the fecond, makes the native always poor,
let him have what afiidance foever; unlefs he be eflentially fortified there,
and in good afped of the fortunes. Saturn and Mars in oppofition to
equinodial figns, makes (if a king) a great tyrant; and, if they be in quar-
tile with Jupiter, he may be an obferver of law and religion, but it will
be for his own ends. Saturn in oppofition to Luna, or Mars in oppofi­
tion to the afcendant, makes an abfolute knave and a traitor.
Mars lord of the geniture in the afcendant eflentially fortified, makes
a courageous perfon, a good foldier, furgeon, orphyfician, and one honour­
able in his profefiion. Mars drong in a nativity, and lord of the fe-
venth, in no good afped to the luminaries or afcendant, the native will
be unfortunate in war, controverfies, and law-fuits; for the feventh houfe
fignifies his enemies, and in this refped they will be too powerful for
him. Mars in the medium coeli brings fcandal and difhonour to the
native in many things, whether he deferves them or not. Mars in Aries,
Scorpio, or Capricorn, in the afcendant of a nativity, makes the native in­
vincible ; and this more efpecially if he be in good afped of the lumina­
ries, or planets eflentially fortified. Mars in conjunction, quartile, or
oppofition, to Luna and Saturn, in the fame afped of Sol from angles,
fliews a violent death. If fo pofited in violent figns, though out of an­
gles, the fame; Mars and Sol in the fecond houfe, eflentially fortified, the
native may have a good edate, but will have ways enough to fpend it; but,
if they be weak, peregrine, or afflided, the native will be driven to want.
Mars
Digitized by Google Original from
h lH A / V f l R Y DI I DI i r I I DD A
O F A S T R O L O G T . 263
Mare and Sol in afcendant, in aereal or fiery figns, make proud^.Hporn-
ful, prodigal, perfons, conceited of themfelves. Mars in opjCfition to
Jupiter or Venus deftroys the iflue of the native, t$WJgh ever fo great and
numerous.
Sol lord of the geniture, or ftrong in the afcendant, makes the native
aim at fovereignty, rule, and dominion ; who, quod capax, will be very
famous ; the fame if Aries, Leo, or Sagittarius, afcend, and the Sun be
ftrong and in trine with Jupiter. Sol in the afcendant makes a great
boafter and very proud perfon ; Mars there, denotes a notorious liar, ro­
mancer, and inventor of fables, and a contriver of mifchief, given over to
perjury, violence, and cruelty. Sol or Luna in quartile oroppofition to
Saturn or Mars from angles, chiefly the medium cceli, fhews a violent
death ; if to Mars only, and in humane figns, the native will beflain by
the hands of his enemies ; if to Saturn, he will either have a great fall,
be imprifoned, or ftarved to death in a prifon. Sol and Luna affliCted in
watery or airy figns affliCt the native greatly with the gout. Sol and Lu­
na in conjunction of Venus in Cancer or Capricorn give the native a great
fancy and a large underftanding. If Sol, Luna, or the medium cceli, be
directed to the conjunction, fextile, or trine, of Jupiter or Venus, the na­
tive, if in years, generally marries. Sol, Luna, or the afcendant, being
Hyleg, direCied to the conjunction, quartile, or oppofition, of Saturn, and
the direction being in Aries, Cancer, or Leo, the native rarely efcapes
death when thefe directions come up, becaule thofe figns reprefent the
mod vital parts in man’s body, and Saturn in the oppofite figns has moft
power to do mifchief. Sol and Mercury in conjunction in the third or
fourth makes the perfon fkilful in occult arts and fciences. Sol, Luna,
or the afcendant, in a geniture of fhort lite direCted to the Dragon’s Tail,
generally proves mortal.
Venus, lady of the geniture, or ftrong in the afcendant, makes the na­
tive a great lover of plealure, of an upright, juft, honeft, heart; bur, if
fhe be weak, and afflicted by Saturn or Mars, the native is libidinous,
fenfually and beaftly inclined, and will be affliCted with venereal dif-
eafes, Venus and Mercury in conjunction in Gemini, Libra, or Aqua-
ries in the afcendant, in trine with Jupiter in the ninth, make great
fcholars, and learned men. Venus and Mercury pofited in the medium
cceli, either in Aries, Gemini, Virgo, or Scorpio, make the native very
eminent in arts and fciences. Venus in the afcendant, and Mercury lord
thereof, in reception with her, denotes a good underftanding, and a wor­
thy honeft man. Venus pofited in the medium cceli makes the native,
whether man or woman,, marry very advantageoufly.
No. 13. 3 Mercury
Digitized by Go*.>sle Original from
M P / i / v n o t ' Dl I P I I r I I R P A R V
u
u
u
y
i
c
-
u
i
y
i
i
i
^
e
u
/
i
i
u
_
f
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
v
v
.
i
i
c
i
l
i
i
i
l
i
u
b
t
.
u
i
y
/
d
L
L
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
«
-
|
J
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
264
Mercury lord of the geniture, or Strong in the afcendant, gives the na­
tive an admirable fancy and great elocution ; if he be in good afpedlt with
Luna or Venus, or in reception with either of them, he proves a famous
orator j if in good afpedt or reception with Saturn or Jupiter, he makes
an excellent philofopher or divine ; if with Mars, a good phyfician, fur-
geon, or mathematician. Mercury in cafimi, aod in his own dignities,
makes the native a great orator, or fubtle counfellor, in the estimation of
all men. Mercury in fquare or oppofition of Mars gives a fharp, but
a turbulent and troublefome, wit and understanding; one never content,
but always feeking out new things and Strange inventions. Mercury in
an angle in Pifces, afflicted of Mars or Sol, and the Moon in an angle,
' afflidted of Saturn, makes a fool or a madman; for thefe configurations op-
prefs the brain, and reprefent a thoufand fancies. Mercury in Cancer, re­
trograde, in fquare to Mars and Jupiter, and they in oppofition to each
other in the nativity of a divine, makes a great enthufiaft. If Mercury be
afflicted by Saturn in thofe genitures where Cancer, Scorpio, or Pifces,
afcend, the native is cither dumb or has a very great impediment in
his Speech ; the fame if Mercury be with the Dragon’s Tail if afflidted by
Mars in fuch a genefis, the native Stammers very much. Mercury free
from affliction in genitures where Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Sagittarius,
or Aquaries, afcend, gives the native a graceful lpeech and an excellent
elocution. Mercury and the Dragon’s Tail in the afcendant in Libra, and
the Moon in Aries in the feventh, make the native a promoter of fcandal
and falfehood. Mercury in either of the houfes of Saturn gives a found
understanding ; and, if he be in fextile, trine, or reception, of Saturn, the
native comes into great repute by his ingenuity. Mercury in the houfes
of Mars, in good afpedt of Luna and lord of the afcendant, gives an ex­
cellent understanding.
Luna being lady of the geniture or Strong in the afcendant, the native
loves novelties, is fubjedt mutation, and defirous of travelling to fee dif-
tant countries; of a gentle nature and difpofition, and timorous j if She be in
afpedt with Mercury, rthe native will be maSter of many languages. Lu­
na in conjunction with the Pleiades, and in quartile of Mars from an
angle, Shews great defedts in the eyes, if not total blindnefs. Luna in
conjunction or oppofition of Sol in any genefis, Shews that the native
will live but a Short tim e; unlefs the Moon has great latitude •, for that
fometimes may make the conjunction or oppofition eight or nine degrees
distant. Luna in conjunction of Saturn in an earthy lign, and an earthy
fign alcending, makes the native very melancholy and low-fpirited. Luna
in reception and trine of Mercury gives a good understanding, and makes
the native able to overturn the arguments of moft men. Luna in the
twelfth, in quartile to Caput Algol in the medium cceli. Shews lofs of
2 honour.
Digitized I Go*,tgle Original from
v n P k ' D i i m 1r 1 i r d a r v
l
j
u
i
i
i
d
111
,
v
j
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
/
.
e
u
/
i
i
l
l
|j
.
/
/
vvvvvv.i
icili
ii
li
u
b
L
.
u
i
y
/
c
u
_
L
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
f
f
-
|
J
U
-
y
u
u
y
it;
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 265
honour, if not captivity, or death in prifon. Luna in Via Combufta, and
Sol in Via Ladtea, denote great danger to the eyes; if the infortunes be in
the afcendant, or in oppofition thereto, it prefages blindnefs. Luna, Sol,
or the afcendant, directed to the conjunction of Mars, fhew the fmall-
pox ormeafles in children ; in men it denotes malignant fevers j and, in
elderly people, death. Luna in good afpedt of the almuten of the medium
coeli, and in the fame with the lord of the afcendant, gives the native
eminent honour. Luna or Sol, or both, or the afcendant, afflicted by
the body or partile afpedt of the infortunes, denotes that they will be of
a very fhort and fickly life.
Fixed ftars of the firft or fecond magnitude in the afcendant, or medium
cceli, give the native extraordinary fame and honour, make him eminent
and profperous, and one whom the world will admire. Fixed ftars of a
violent nature, upon the cufp of the medium cceli, and its lord polited
with fuch, fhew deftrudtion to the native’s honour and fame. Fixed ftars
are to be confidered, in general pofitions or directions, in refjpedt of their
afpedts, as well as the planets.
The medium cceli afflidted by the Dragon’s Tail, and both the lumina-
naries afflicted by Mars, in a violent fign in the fourth, fhew a wretched
end, both to the honour and life of the native. The medium coeli well
fortified gives the native not only great honour, but fuch as fhall be fixed
and durable j though fometimes upon bad directions it may be fubjedt
to interruptions. The medium cceli directed to promittors never kills,
unlefs in the genefis there be figns of a violent death.
All the planets, or moft of them, above the earth, make the native,
of whatfoever capacity, eminent and famous beyond it j and, if they fhall
be fo pofited in their dignities, he fhall, like a comet, out-fhine all others
in the place where he lives. All the planets in a nativity retrograde, and
under the earth, though the native be of great and noble birth, fhew him
not of a riling, but of a falling, fame and fortune. The lord of the afcen­
dant ftronger than the lord of the feventh fhews the native always over­
comes his adverfaries, and fo contrariwife. Aries, Leo, or Sagittarius,
afcending, and the lord of the afcendant in the medium cceli, fhews
the native will always be aiming at things beyond the capacity of his
birth or prefent fortune.
The inferior planets many times fhew great honour to the fame of a
native, but will not be of long continuance. The fortunes in the ninth
make famous churchmen, lawyers, and rich merchants j the fame, if the
benevolents trine the ninth or lord thereof. Many planets in the ninth,
*n
Digitized by Go*, ole Original from
M H A / v n o VD I I D I I
TI I D D A D V
266 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
*
in the nativities of any clafs of perfons, gives them the highcft Honour and
dignity in their profeflion. If Virgo afcend, the native is generally very
ingenious, unlefs Mercury be in Sagittarius or Piices ; and then the native
is generally confident and conceited of his own abilities, though a mere
fool. The lord of the medium coeli in the twelfth, and the lord of the
twelfth in the afcendant, denote captivity or imprifonment ; the like if
the Moon or lord of the afcendant be pofited in the twelfth. The greater
the planets’ dignities are,the more fplendid and glorious are the native’s
honour and fortune j the greater their debilities, the more obfcure will
be his. If the medium coeli be direCted to the body of Saturn, he being
pofited in the tenth or eleventh houfe, the native will lofe all his honour
and offices, and will fcarcely ever rife again to preferment; and, if in luch
genefis there be fignifications of a violent death, the aforefaid direction
puts an inglorious period to the native’s life.
A continued feries of good directions make a bad nativity fometimes
very good ; but that good lafls not long. Two, three, or more, planets
in the eighth, upon good directions unto them, encreafe greatly the na­
tive’s fubftance by wills and legacies of the dead. The eleventh houfe,
fortified by the prefence of good planets, fhews many great and powerful
friends, but, by the prefence of evil planets, and they ill-affected, it
fhews few and faithlefs friends. The lord of the eleventh flronger than
the lord of the leventh declares the native’s friends to be more powerful
than his enemies.
All the planets under the earth, when they promife honour, dignity,
and fortune, which is chiefly when they are efi'entially fortified in noc­
turnal genitures, generally perform it in the latter part of the native’s life.
All the planets in a nativity out of their eflential dignities, fhew obfcure
perfons ; who, if they ever attain any honour, glory, or renown, in the
world, never long enjoy it. A fortunate planet in the eighth houfe always
denotes a natural death j the lord of the eighth in the medium coeli fhews
the native will die by tbefentence of a judge. Such as have a fatellium,
or croud of planets in angles, have at fome time or other of their lives
prodigious luccefs or detriment, according to the oceuring directions.
Many planets in reception, or in good afpeft of each other, give the native
,many and good friends. Planets lquaring or oppofing each other from
angles and cardinal figns denote great misfortunes to the native, and that
at laft he fhall die a violent death. Cardinal figns pofleffing the angles of
a nativity make the native, if of any capacity, mod eminent and fatnousin
hisgeneration, and to do fuch ads as that after-ages fhall admire him. D i­
rections to the bodies or afpetls of planets the defcending part of heaven,
although they denote the greateft happinefs, yet it proves not very durable.
In
Original from
IlCtJtJ V A B i / rsi in i i r ^ i i n n a n v
Digitized by Google
PF A S T R O L O G Y. | r 267
la a feminine genefis, the lord of the fcventh being pofited in the af­
cendant, makes her govern over her hufband ; and if the lord of the
afcendant be a fuperior planet, and the fign thereof commanding, (lie will
be a great virago, and heCtor over him. Allowance is many times to be
given in the meafureof time in directions, when tranlits of weighty pla­
nets, contrary to the nature of the directions, (hall near that time occur;
for good and evil directions maybe either anticipated or continued by the
force of the tranlits. Some perfons, although they have bad genitures,
rife wonderfully, becaufe their genitures fympathize with the nativities
of thofe by whom they are raifed. The greatclt fympathy that can be in
any two nativities, is by having the fortunes in one upon the places of
the luminaries in the other; and the luminaries in the latter upon the
places of the fortunes in the former. The greateft antipathy is, where
the infortunes in the one 'polfefs the places of the luminaries in the other;
and the luminaries in the latter poflefs the places of the infortunes in
the former; the fame happens if the lord of the afcendant in the one be in
oppofition to the lord of the afcendant in the other, and fo contrari-
wife. The lord of the afcendant in the radix in conjunction with the
lord of the eighth, in the revolution, and in the eighth houfe, will be
very dangerous to the life of the native.
Mercury peregrine, and in detriment or fall, retrograde or combuft,
in quartile or oppofition of Luna from angles, flow in motion, cadent, or
in via combufta, or afflicted by Saturn or Mars, (hews the native not to
be wife, but rather ftupid, and dull of underltanding, impertinent, trou-
blefome, a diflembler, and very filly creature; but the quartile or op­
pofition of Mars and Mercury caufes a turbulent and unquiet wit, and
makes the native the author of many inventions.
RUDIM ENTS of the D O CTRIN E of HORARY QUESTIONS.
Let the radix be drawn into a fpeculum, and, being fully and com-
pleatly directed with obfervations of all the current tranlits, draw forth
the revolution alfo of the year. Then, confider the matter about which
the queflion is propofed, whether it be tranfient or durable. Confider
alfo to what houfe the thing belongs, what planet is the fignificator
thereof, the afcendant and its lord, and the planets which may confirm,
impede, or deflroy, thebufinefs. What planets are hurtful to the fignifi­
cator of the thing, and confequently to the querent, which are fuch as
the lords of the feventh or twelfth houfe, or fuch as are in quartile or
oppofition to them in the radix. Then if the lord of the afcendant come
by direction or tranfit to the body or good afpeCt of the lord of the houfe
fignifying the thing, or planet pofited therein ; or they contrariwife to
No. 13. 3 R the
Original from
I C\ A/ V f l D k ' Dl ID I I r I I R D A B V
Digitized by Google
263 . A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
the good afpedt of the lord of the afcendant, the matter {hall come to
pafs, or take effect. So if a planet by direction or tranfit hath lately
feparated from the fignificators of the thing, and immediately applies
to the conjunction, textile, or trine, of the lord of the afcendant, or pla­
net therein, it fljcws the fame. If the fignificators of the thing, or lord of
the fourth from the houfe fignifying the fame, (hall tranfit the afcendanr,
or come by direction thereto, it (hews good. If the radical and revolu-
tional fignificators apply by good afpedt in the Ephemeris,' or are in
reception, or another planet makes a tranflation or collection of their
light, it fhews the perfection of the matter. If the aforefaid tranfits or
directions happen to be in mutual reception to the lords of their radical
places, it thews fo much the more eminent good. And, whether the fig­
nificators be terong or weak at the time of the direction or tranfit, if
they were terong in the radix, their fignifications will be the more firm.
If any planet collects the light of both fignificators, and at that time tran­
fits the afcendant or houfe fignifying the thing, it perfedts the matter.
The fame if by direction or tranfit they come to one another’s places in
the radix, or to any eminent fixed tear, upon the cufp of the eleventh
houfe, or medium cceli. Confider what houfe the planet which tranf-
lates or colIeCts the light of the fignificators is lord of, and pofited in,
for according to the nature of the things fignified by thofe houfes fhall
the matter terminate. If the Sun, Moon, or Part of Fortune, tranfit the
medium cceli, or houfe fignifying the thing, or come thereto by direc­
tion, it fignifies good. But, if there be neither direction nor tranfit,
nor fignificators of good or evil, it is requifite to fufpend judgment to a
future day.
If it be a weighty and durable thing which is defired, it will fcarcely
be performed without a good direction or tranfit j yet you may judge
thereof, according to the next that comes, as it is either good or evil.
But, if the oppofite evil to what we have ftatedlhould happen, then judge
of it by the contrary rule j but, if both good and evil happen, judge ac­
cording to the more weighty and greater number of teftimonies. And
whatfoever we have faid of the radix, if the fame configurations happen
in the revolution, they import the fame, but not with fuch powerful effedt.
Lately, confider to what points in the revolution the radical fignifi­
cators approach by tranfit or direction j or contrariwife, to what points
in the radix the revolutional fignificators apply; and accordingly, as it
is either good or evil, join all with the other configurations aforefaid,
and accordingly judge.
RUDIM ENTS
Digitized by Google Original from
kinhi v n o k ' D i m i i r i i d r a r v
aifinnR-nrl-w-^<;n
qq3
~i~ip/R
im
^
n
mi
h
pi
r
aa
aa
a
a
//-
rin
i
i
/
n
P
7
mFiin-P>ifinoo
'i
iipi
i
in
n
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 269
RUD IM ENTS of the D O CTRIN E of RADICAL ELECTIO N S.
If any thing be really intended to be obtained, the time of the be­
ginning and undertaking thereof ought to be eleded from the radix
of life, and nothing elle. For at that time, once for all, the great God
deputed every fignilicator to a certain purpofe or fignification, and firmly
eftabliflied the fame, forever unalterable by the power of nature* There­
fore, in making an eledion, firft corredly learn what planet is the true
and real fignificator of the thing defired, for without the true knowledge
thereof all' is in vain; fecondly, confider the nature and quality of the
thing, whether it be proportional to the capacity of him 'w ho defires it,
or impoilible.
Confider alfo to what houle of heaven the fame doth appg-tain, and
what eminent fixed ftars were upon or near the cufp thereof, and what
planets in the radix beheld it by friendly afped. Note, likewife the re­
volution, what fign is upon the cufp of the fame houfe, what planet is
lord thereof, or beholds it by good afped. Confider the promiffor, or
planet, or houfe fignifying that or them, by or from whom the thing
hoped for is to be obtained or performed. Then confider in every elec­
tion the fourth houle,, from the houfe fignifying the thing, its lord, and
planet pofited (if any be) therein; for that hath fignification of the end
of the matter.
Let the radix be direded with a fpeculum completely fitted, thereby
readily to obferve,-with a glance of the eye, all the tranfits of every
fignificator, whether good or evil. This done, obfbrve at what time the
fignificators come by diredion ortranfit to the body or good afped of the
promififor in the radix, or to the lord of the fourth, or planet pofited
therein, or eminent fixed liar of the nature of the promiffor, or at what
time there is any tranflation made by the promiffor. Sun, or Moon, by
good afped,. to the cufp of the afeendant, lord thereof, or planet pofited
therein ; as alfo at what time in the Ephemeris they come to any good
afpe6t, and make your eledion for the fame accordingly.
Obferve when thofe radical fignificators come by diredion or tranfit
to the body or good afped of the aforcfaid revolutional promiffors.—
Gbferve alfo when the cufp of the fourth from the houfe fignifying the
thing,- or its lord, by diredion or tranfit comes to the body or good
afped of the afeendant or its lord, or tranflates the light of the fignifi­
cator or promiffor thereto; or comes to the houfe or lord thereof ligni-
fying the thing. Note alfo, when the revolutional fignificators come
by tranfit to the body or good afped of the aforefaid promiffors, whether
3 radical
gitized by G ( X > Q l e
Original from
li r t m v /r tm / rsi in 1 ■
r * 1 m n , m /
27o AN I L L U S T -R A T .1 O N
radical or revolutional, and whether there be no evil dire&ion or tranfit at
she fame time, neither radical or revolutional, accompanying the afore-
faid configurations.
Let the fignificators, hut efpecially the promisors, be eflentially forti­
fied, or in conjunction,; Textile, or trine, with their places in the radix, if
pofiible. Let the medium cceli in the radix, as alfo the Sun and Moon
and lord of the eleventh, be free from all affliction, andhaftening by di­
rection prtranfit t<J fome good configuration. And let the fame fign and
degree if pofiible afeend, at the undertaking, which did in the radix, for
then the fignificators are the fame ; if that cannot be, let thofe upon the
cufp of the houfe fignifying the thing, afeend ; or let the Sun or Moon
be pofited in the houfe fignifying the thing, taking heed that the radical
infortunes may be cadent if pofiible, and not angular. Obferve if there
be any reception between the radical fignificators and promiffbrs; the
fame obferve in the revolution j or whether the radical and revolutional
fignificators are in reception one with another at the time of the directions
or tranfits, for that is very promifing ; and thofe afpetls only are propi­
tious to make elections in.
Laflly, if the radical fignificators be weak or unfortunate, there can
be no ftrong or firm election made for the native ; for what good can be
expe&ed to proceed from weak, afflicted, impotent, and unfortunate,-
promiflbrs or helps ? It is true there may be an accidental good, but that
never can overcome the power of an eflential or radical evil; yet, if an
election be made for fuch a one, let the fignificators be eflentially ftrong
at the time of the election, and if pofiible in trine to their radical places.
•Now, if the exaft time be required in which any thing fignified fhould
come to pafs, that muft be found by the direction of each fignificator to
their refpeCtive promiflbrs both by progreflive and converfe operation j or
by drawinga fpeculum for the mundane afpeCts, which will at firft fight
point out the year, month, and day, in which all the material accidents of
human life (hall appear, and be made manifeft. If you would know how
many children the native fhall have, you muft have confideration to the
fifth, feventh, ninth, eleventh, firft, and third, houfes, for thefe fignify
the native’s children, for, as the fifth from theafeendant fignifies children,
fo it fignifies the firft and feventh child j the feventh fignifies the fecond
child, for it is the houfe of brethren from the fifth ; the ninth fignifies
the third child, becaufe it is the third from the feventh, and fo. in like
manner the eleventh fignifies the fourth child j the firft, the fifth child;
the third, the fixth child; the fifth, the feventh child as aforefaid ; the
feventh, the eighth child j and fo on. The fex of the infant is difeovered
by the nature of the fignificators.
. In
Digitized by Got.-sle Original from
MPl/il V n R t ' DIIDI Ir I I R R A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 271
In regulating and ascertaining thefe judgments, the difcreet Aftrolo-
gian muft likewife underftand, that all fiery Signs incline men to be cho­
leric, hafty, furious, quarrelfome, revengeful, proud, ambitious, impe­
rious, importunate, hardy, and ravifli; involving themfelves in many trou­
bles and misfortunes; yet they arc moftly ingenious, but often changing
their opinions and purfuits.
Airy figns Shew men cheerful, affable, courteous, liberal, free-hearted,
faithful, good-natured, and loving mirth, .fuch as finging, dancing, mu-
fic, and all civil recreations; of modeft deportment and manners, and
of found reafon and underflanding.
Earthy figns denote perfons of referved thought, flow in fpeech, and
deliberate in all their undertakings, keeping clofe their count'd and in­
tention. T hey alfo frequently prove to he very fraudulent, covetous,
and fufpicious, lcldom forgetting or forgiving injuries ; often forrowful
and low-fpirited; loving no man’s efteem but their own ; for the mod
part prudent and careful, but auftere and furly in their manners and de--
portment.
Watery figns make them cowardly, luxurious, wanton, mutable, dull,
and fluggifli; with low, effeminate, whining voices, very timorous and
fearful, having much deceit in them. They are ufually pretty much-
given to the fehools and nurferies of Venus, which often prove a great
injury to them, and fometimes their total ruin.
It muft alfo be remembered, that Saturn is extremely cold and dry;'
Jupiter is remifsly hot and moift, Mars extremely hot and dry, the Sun
is meanly hot and dry, Venus is hot and moift. Mercury is remifsly cold
and dry, the Moon is meanly cold and moift. If Saturn be in Aries, his
d-rinefs is increased, and his coldnefs abated, or he is intenfely dry, or re-
naiisly cold; InTaurus he adis with a double force, viz. he is intenfely
cold and dry ; in Gemini he is remifsly cold and dry, in Cancer he is in­
tenfely cold , fo that if Saturn afpedl the afeendant from any of thefe
figns, he varies -his influence, according to the fign he is in. A planet in 1
his houfe, as the Sun in Leo, retains his own nature, and is well affedied '
in his influence, but if in his detriment, as in Aquaries, he is then ill
affedled or deprived. If he be only peregrine, he is meanly affedted as to
good or evil, viz. neither effentially ftrong nor weak; if in his fall, he
flags in his motion, and is a man indifpoled and uneafy. Therefore a
planet in his fall or detriment effedls no good to the native, if any, it is
cepraved, and confequcntly dangerous or pernicious.
No. 14. 3 S A pla-
Original from
m c u / v n e v d i i d 1 1r 1 i d d a d v
Digitized by Google
*72 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
A planet direct and fwift in motion, or on the contrary, is as thofe very
terms import; therefore their celerity, orientality, and their pofition, if .
fuperiors, fupra terram, makes them more manifeflrand powerful. Aries
alcending gives a martial wit and inclination, but, if the Sun be in par-
tile, trine, or fextile, to it, or its lord, or in conjunction of Jupiter, who
may be in platic fextile or trine to either of them, then it is made folar
and jovial, but chiefly folar. Underftand the like in other figns afcend-
ing, according to their refpeCtive nature, aad the nature alfo of thofe pla-
nets that behold them.
The .nature and ftate of every planet mult be attended to ; for a pla­
net may be confidered in relation to the portents or fignification of any
fign or manfion of heaven ; thus, Firft as to pofition j fecond, dominion ;
third, exaltation ; fourth, afpedt; fifth, oppofition thereunto; as for ex­
ample, Saturn in Aries mufl be confidered as Martialized and Solalized,
becaufe Aries is the houfe of Mars, aad the exaltation and triplicity of
the Sun, and fo in others. The afeendant in any nativity is to be ob-
ferved, alfo the lord of the afeendant and his pofition, or a planet pofited
therein j all which arc to be confidered by the reader or ftudent as to the
portents or fignification of the afeendant. The fixth houfe fignifies dil-
cafes, but yet the twelfth fhall be a configurator in all corporal afflic­
tions, as being in oppofition thereto.
From the lord of the afeendant, or in any other houfe, proceeds the chief
virtue or mod powerful parts as to the fignification of that houfe; if Sa­
turn and the Sun be in conjundtion in Leo in the tenth houfe, the latter
being neareft to the cufp thereof, then the native arrives to fome degree
of dignity or honour from the analogy, pofition, dominion, or fortitude,
of the Sun, as ^fo his propinquity to the cufp. But Saturn being of a
contrary nature, and adverfe to what the Sun portends, alfo hating the
place of his refidence, and partly afflidting the Sun, will therefore caufe
fome unhappy misfortune to arife, and cloud the glory promifed by the
Sun in the end. Saturn in conjunction with Jupiter in Virgo is mod
powerful, and overcomes in his effedts; but, if they are conjoined in
Aries, then Jupiter is ftrongeft, and becomes vidtor. This reciprocally
by each being in his fall.
The luminaries are to be confidered as more powerful and fignificant
than the reft of the planets; and therefore any of the fuperiors in conjunc­
tion with the Sun in Leo influences much power and honour to the na­
tive by virtue of the Sun, &c. So if Saturn be in conjundtion with Ju­
piter in Sagittary, the houfe of Jupiter, then Saturn adts in dependance
to his difpoiitor. Any planet ftrong in a good houfe is of good fignifi-
catioo.
Digitized by G o * . ' f i l e
Original from
M P Jif v n u V Dl IB I Ir I I D R A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 273
cation, but much better if the planet be a fortunate one by nature. A
malefic planet, weak in the tenth houfe, denies honour, if they behold
either the cufp or the lord thereof by any malevolent afpedt ; then many
impediments or obftru&ions prejudice or hinder the native’s advancement.
Mars in the mid-heaven, ftrong, ufually portends military preferment,
dignity, or profefllon.
Saturn or Mars, ftrong in a good houfe of a figure, are as difeords in
mufic, corredted to effedt a concord or harmony in founds; for, being
well affedted, they caufea perfedt good, though it be attended with dif­
ficult means or methods to accompany it. In fine, their good is always
tempered with fomething of evil, becaufe they arc naturally more propenfe
to effedt evil than good as for example, Saturn in the fecond houfe, or
lord thereof, and ftrong, gives riches by rapine and covetoufnefs; in the
feventh he denotes the death of the wife. A malefic planet meanly af­
fedted in a good houfe oftentimes obftrudts or prevents what is naturally
fignified thereby, or at beft but meanly effedts a good. As for example,
Saturn meanly affedted, viz. peregrine in the fecond houfe, gives not
riches, yet retains them when gathered, by being fparing and penurious.
Mars fo pofited and ill-effedted, difiipates or deftroys an eftatc by prodi­
gality, and fuch other imprudent expences. Saturn, debilitated in the
eleventh houfe of a nativity, produces trouble with or by the means of
friends unrelated ; and the analogy is according to the debility of the pla­
nets, and how they are beheld, and mitigated by Textiles and trines, or
contrarily inflamed by quartiles or oppofitions.
An infortune in conjundtion with a fortunate planet, is either impeded
or deprived of the good fignified ; for, though the fortunate planet be in
his own houfe, yet he partakes fomething of the nature or analogy of
the malefic, with whom he is conjoined. Three planets or more in
conjundtion, adl jointly and feverally according to their refpedtive na­
tures, and to their heavenly ftates, but principally according to the nature
and ftate of the moft ftrong and ruling planet. If an infortune, cfpecially
Saturn, be placed between two planets which are in conjundtion, he pre­
vents or retards the good promifed by the other two planets; the nature
or kind thereof is diicovered by the houfe of heaven wherein fuch a con-
grefs is made.
The lord of the afeendant applying to the conjundtion of the Sun in
any nativity, (hews the native apt, or delights to converfe with honour­
able perfons, grandees, and fuch-like; as alfo will be ambitious of fame,
honour, and dignity, &c. If he apply to Saturn, the native effedts to
converfe or affociate himfelf with perfons of an inferior rank, viz. ruf-
3 t i c * #
Digitized by Gck>gle Original from
m c u / d i i d 1 1r 1 i d d a d v
tics, plebeians, &c. He is fubjedt to envy, fear, penfivenefs, and co-
vetoufnefs. Two planets in reception adt or difperfe their influence in
an amicable method, and, if benevolent by nature, their virtues are the
more powerful. Many planets in cardinalfigns in any geniture, always
eflfeft fome great things ; if in one houfe, the native receives or fuffer6
an excels of good or evil, according to the nature of that houfe. The
benevolent planets Jupiter, Venus, and Mercury alfo, retrograde in any
nativity, is of eminent import, adding to the felicity of a native, and this
is the more powerful if they are applying to the conjun&ion of the earth ;
but the retrogradation of Saturn or Mars in angles, is ever attended with
•difficulties and unhappinefles, from which pofrtions I fhall always pray.
Libera nos, D om ine.
E N D of the F I R S T P A R T .
A N
Digitized by Go»..ale Original from
v n o t ' Dl I P I I r I I D R A D V
A N
I L L U S T R A T I O N
O F T H E
CELESTIAL SCIENCE
O F
A S T R O L O G Y.
P A R T t h e S E C O N D .
C O N T A I N I N G T H E
DOCTRINE o f NATIVITIES,
A N D T H E
A R T OF R E S O L V I N G H O R A R Y Q U E S T I O N S *
T O G E T H E R W I T H
A Collection of N ativities of the mod eminent and remarkable
Persons, T wins, D warfs, Giants, &c.
By E. S I B L Y, M. D. F. R. H. S.
PRINTED IN THE YEAR M.DCC.XCIII.
Digitizes by Google Original from
klEMJ VflD V D l i m i r I I QDAD V
A N
I L L U S T R A T I O N
Of the CELESTIAL SCIENCE of
A S T R O L O G Y .
•* * ",
* J *
<
■ 7 ‘ ■ ' ’ \ ,
P A R T THE S E C O N D .
The ART of RESOLVING HORARY QUESTIONS.
I
T is an obfervation moll true, that all people endued with reafon are
folicitous to know their future eftate and condition j but, as fome
perfons find it impoflible to procure the exadt time of their birth, aftro-
logy fupplies that defedt by the dodtrine of Horary Queftions. So that
from a queftion ferioufiy propounded almoft as much fiuisfadtion may be
given the querent, upon many fubjedts of enquiry, as if his nativity were
adtually known. For, as the nativity is the time of the birth of the body,
the horary queftion is the time of the birth of the mind ; and there are
few perfons living but are in fome way or other fubjedf to horary doubts,
which, being ferioufiy propounded in the fihape of aqueftion, may befatis-
fadtorilyrefolved. This dotlrinefeems to be founded upon that miraculous
fympathy in nature, which is admirably manifefted between the Moon
and thefea ; by which that amazing body of water is'conftantly drawn
after her, though no man fees, or can conceive, how. In thefe fympa-
thies there can be no doubt but the vegetive foul of the world invilibly
carries and unites a fpecific virtue from the heavens between one thing
and another, every where working thofe fecret effedts, which no mortal
can fail to admire. And in the prefent cafe, who is to determine what
this foul cannot effedt between the heavenly bodies and the animal
fpirit of man, working fuch fympathies, as that a queftion of impor­
tance to our welfare cannot ftart from the mind but in a point of time
when the planets and figns governing the perfon's birth are adting up­
on the very fubjedt that engages his thoughts and attention. And .hence
the birth of the queftion, like the nativity of a child, carries the llory of
. the
e M c u i v n o / di id ■ i r i i d d a d v
278 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
the whole matter in hand upon its forehead. And hence alfo follows
that flcill in natural predictions by which the artift is. enabled to demon-
ftrate the particulars of the event required j and this as well by the ftars
of heaven as Abiathar the prieft was of old enabled to do by the ftars of
the ephod.
But, however, the predictions that are made from the queftionary way
are by no means fo perfect and correct as thofe deduced from nativities ;
and therefore I recommend all judgments of futurity to be made from na­
tivities, when they can be procured, rather than from horary queftions.
But at the fame time I am very confident that theomnifcient Creator is not
at all wanting for any poffiblecareinhis contrivance of the works of nature,
for the fupply of all ourmodcrate wants and enquiries. And, if it be ef-
fcntial to man’s welfare to be forewarned of thejudgment, as
Solomon declares it is, and that the wife manJhall know it*, then it is
plain that God has afforded means to obtain this knowledge withoutami-
racle; and this means may furely be by the ftars of heaven, refponding
our horary queftions j and experience continually affirms, day by day, that
it is fo. Not that I believe the trivial concerns and accidents of mankind,
as fome writers have pretended, may be thus deduced, as if a glove, loft or
hidden in fport and wantonnefs, fhould be fo watched and attended by
the heavenly intelligencers, that they muft needs point out where this
piece of leather were to be found ; or that queftions propounded out of
mere curiofity or diverfion are to be refolved by them. No; God’s works
are ferious, and not to be made the fport and ridicule of the gay and incon-
fiderate. For, although the heavenly contrivance may aptly refpond our
ferious and important concerns, as when David anxioufly defired to know
whether heJhou/d go up into any of the cities ofJudah, and which of them ?
yet that they fhould as aptly fatisfy our intemperate defires, and be fub-
fervient to our frolics, is too ridiculous to imagine. There is no doubt
but the heavens are able to fhew us more learning than we mortals, in
this ftate of frailty and corruption, can ever attain to underftand; and it
is a great bounty of God that we know fo much as we do ; therefore it
highly becomes every wife and good man to glorify the Maker of all
things for the little knowledge he can and doth attain, and to be careful
how he fports even with the leaft among his gracious works.
All enquiries that are ferious, and that come under the denomination
of an horary queftion, muft neceflarily relate either to things paft, -
fent, or to come ;or to concerns that once were, now are, or may be;
and the anfwer to fuch queftions muft be either effential or accidental.
The effential anfwer is always one of the three things following, to wit,
* Ecclcf. viii. 12. and v. 6.
3 that
zed by Google Original from
icuir v n R k ' Diim ir i i p r a b v
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 279
that the matter concerning which the enquiry is made, is fird, or
not to be;
fecond,either good or b
ajand third, either
Therefore, if the quedion be real, and the matter rightly dated, the
true anfwer, which is always fhort, will be eafily difeovered by the fol­
lowing rules, 'i he accidental anfwer is that which appertains to the
accidents of the bufmefs in hand ; and is always defined by where, when,
how, or why. And whoever attempts to extend his judgment beyond
thefe limits, drains art beyond its bounds, and forces it to lpeak that
which it is totally incapable of, and by this means many pretenders to
Adrology fdil egregioufly in their undertakings. To avoid this, let the
fallowing queries be attended to.
Q JJ E R Y I. Is the Subjectof Enquiry t o b e , or n o t
Here the fird thing to be attended to is the perfection or dejlruCthn of
the matter under confederation. The perfe&ion or completion of the
fubjett of enquiry may be effedled four feveral ways, viz. by the ap­
plication, t
r
a
n
j
l
a
t
i
o
n
, reception, and pofition, of the planets ; and thefe are
determined and defined by the proper and refpedlive fignificators of the
fubjeCts of enquiry, which are, fird, the lords of thofe houfes which re­
late to the matter in hand ; fecondly, planets near the cufps of thofe
houfes ; thirdly, planets exalted or dignified therein ; and fourthly, the
confignificators of thofe houfes. The lords of the houfes are thofe planets
which are lords of the figns that happen to fall upon the cufps of the
houfes. The conjignijicators, of each houfe are as follow : of the fird
houfe or afeendant, Saturn and Mars ; of the fecond, Jupiter and Venus ;
of the third. Mars and Mercury ; of the fourth, Sol and Luna; of the
fifth, Venus and Sol; of the fixth. Mercury alone; of the feventh, Lu­
na and Venus ; of the eighth, Saturn and Mars ; of the ninth, Jupiter
alone; of the tenth, Mars and Saturn ; of the eleventh, Sol and Saturn;
and of the twelf'h, Venus and Jupiter. From hence it appears that
each houfe hath a primary and fecondary confignificator ; the fird where­
of arifes frem the order of the planets, the other from the order of the
figns.
The confideration of the matter propofed is takeli from that houfe
which hath relation to, and lignification of, the fame; and this figni-
fication of the houfes is either limple or compound. 1 he fimplc figni-
fication of the houfes is that which hath relation fingly to the perfon
of the querent; compound fignification is that which hath relation to
the matter or quefited. The querent is he or (he that afks the quedion;
the matter, or quefited, is that about which the quedion is propofed.
The fim.. le fignifications of the houfes are as follow : the nrd houfe
signifies the querent's life and perfon; the fecond, his fubdance; the
No. 14. 3 U third.
Digitized by Goi >sle O
riginal from
KlPUf V f l D ^ Dl ID I IC I I D D A D V
<*8o A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
third, his kindred, neighbours, and fhort journeys; the fourth, his grave,
father, and lands; the fifth, his pleafures and offspring; the fixth, his
fickncfs, fervants, and finall cattle > the feventh, his wife, public ene­
mies, and law-fuits ; the eighth, his death, and legacies ; the ninth, his
religion, long voyages, and learning; the tenth, his mother, trade, and
honour; the eleventh, his friends and hopes; the twelfth, his private
enemies, great cattle, imprifonment, and croffes. The compound figni-
fication is derived from the Ample, by confidering what houfe that is
which fignifies the matter or quefited ; and accounting that, be it what-
foever houfe it may, for its afeendant or firft houfe; and fo aferibing
the iignification of the firft houfe of the figure to it: doing in like man­
ner to all the other houfes in order. So that, if a queftion relates to a bro­
ther or relation, the third houfe is then his afeendant or firft houfe, and
fignifies his life and perfon; the fourth houfe (which is in this cafe his
fecond) his fubftance or eftate; the fifth houfe (his third) his relations
and fhort journeys; the fixth (his fourth) his father; the feventh his chil­
dren ; the eighth his ficknefs; the ninth his wife. See. and the fame of all
others* Thefe things being laid as a foundation, we now come to fhew
the perfection of the matter by the different affections of the afpeCts.
Application is when two planets haften to conjunction or afpeCl of one
another. The light planets only apply to the more weighty. So Saturn
applies to none; Jupiter only to Saturn ; Mars to Saturn and Jupiter;
Sol to Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars; Venus to Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and
S ol; Mercury to Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sol, and Venus; and Luna to
them all. But, if any of the higher planets be retrograde, they may then
apply to a lighter by retrogradation. Thus Saturn may apply to Jupiter,
Mars, Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna; Jupiter to Mars, Sol, Venus,
Mercury, or Luna; Mars to Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna; Venus to
Mercury, or Luna ; and Mercury to Luna, when retrograde. In this
application the lords of each houfe are not only to be conlidered, but alfo
the confignificators of the fame; for, if they alfo apply together by good
afpeCt, we may give the more probable judgment. Thefe applications
« may be always difeerned by the Ephemeris ; wherein may not only, be
^ feen when the Moon applies to any afpeCt, but alfo when any of the other
planets apply to one another.
Tranflation is when a planet feparates from the body or afpeCt of one
planet, and immediately applies to the conjun&ion or afpeCt of another.
And the planet tranflating is always lighter, except in retrogradation,
than the planets from or to whom the tranflation is made. So Luna
may tranflate the light of the other planets from one to another; Mercury
may tranflate the light of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sol, and Venus, from
one
Digitized by Gov gle O
riginal from
M P1A/ v n c k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
O 5* A S T R O L O G Y. *8x
one to another j Venus the light of Saturn, Jtipiter, Mars, and Sol, from
one to another j Sol the light of Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, from one to
another;. Mars the light of Saturh and Jupiter from one to another; but
Jdpiter and Saturn, wiihout'retrogradation, can make no tranflation. This
tranflation is to be confidcredbetwecn the lords of the houfes fignifying
the matter, the planets mear the cufps, and the confignificators of the
fame. So, if the queftion belong to the feventh houfe, and Sagittarius be
on the afeendant, .then Jupiter is lord of the afeendant, and Mercury of
the feventh; Sattirn is the iirfl: confignificator of the afeendant, and Mars
the fecond ; Luna is the firft confignificator of the feventh, and Venus is
the fecond. And, if the tranflation be between Jupiter and Mercury, or
Saturn and Luna, or Mars and Venus, it may poflibly perform the mat­
ter ; but, if there be a tranflation between them all, as alfo between
planets pofited near the cufps of the houfes, the thing will undoubt­
edly be brought to pafe, the fame as by application. A more weighty
planet may alfo make a tranflation by feparating in retrogradation frort*
a weightier than himfelf, and applying to a lighter than himfelf. So
Jupiter, being retrograde, may feparate from Saturn or his afped, and
tranflate his light and virtue to Mars, Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna.
Reception is either Angle or mutual. A Angle reception is wheft
hut one of the fignificators receives the other into his dignities, viz. his
houfe, exaltation, or triplicity; this is but of fmall force, and is called
difpofition. Mutual reception is when two planets are in each other’s
dignities; as Mars in Gemini, and Mercury in Aries. This reception
is threefold, either by houfe, exaltation, or triplicity. By houfe, when
Saturn is in the houfes of Jupiter, and Jupiter in the houfes of Saturn.
By exaltation, as when Saturn is in Aries, the exaltation of Mars j and
Mars in Libra, the exaltation of Saturn. By triplicity, as when Saturn
is in Leo, the triplicity of Mars, and Mars in Taurus,- the triplicity of
Saturn. There is alfo another reception of dignities ; and that is when
one planet is in another planet’s houfe, and that planet in the other’s
exaltation or triplicity. As Saturn in Taurus, the houfe of Venus, and
Venus in Libra, the exaltation of Saturn, or in Virgo, his triplicity.
Thefe receptions are remarkably ftrong and forcing, if they fall either
in the antifeions of each other, or in or near each other’s Textile or trine.
Pofition is when either the lords of two houfes concerned, or the
confignificators of the fame, or both, are pofited in each other’s houfes;
or the lord of the afeendant, or its confignificator, or both, are pofited
in the houfe fignifying the thing; or, laltly, when the lord or configni­
ficators of the houfe fignifying the thing are pofited in the afeendant.
- • So,-
Original from
k i c u / d \s m i d i i r I i d d a d v
* 3 2 A N I L L tu S . T ' H T I O N
So, if the qucftion belongs to the medium Cceli, if the lord of the afeen-
dant be found in the medium cceli, or lord of the medium cceli in theaf-
cendant, or in mutual polition, it perfeds the thing defired. This pofi-.
tion is eminent, and, if the faid fignificators be pofited in the antifeions
or other dignities of each other, or of the planets f gnifying the thing, it
absolutely denotes the lull completion of it } more elpeciallv if the.faid
fignificators by pofition are in textile or trine to each others or to Jupi­
ter, Sol, or Venus, or to lords of good houfes. '1 he power of antitci-
©ns are equal to a fextile or trine, chiefly if they fall near thofe points,
gr in the dignities of their proper planet, or both Thefe antifeions are
to be.confidered in all the wa\s aforefiid ; to wit, -in application, trartf-
lation, reception, and pofition, in which they effed much more than
©therwiSe could be imagined. If there he application of one or both fig­
nificators, though to no afped, but to the.antifcion of the other figni-
ficators.; or reception by antifeion with good afped, or a real pofition
i/i antifeion of the,one, with a good tranllation to the other fignificator,
it pcrfefcis things beyond expectation. .And thus, by any or all of the
foregoing circumstances, may ihe.fubjed of enquiry be brought to p*fs,
and completed.
The matter is deftroyed by prohibition, which is -when; the fignifica-
tors are applying to. an afped, and befote they can conic to that al’
ped,-
tbe.ligbter or applying pLnet comes to the conjunction or afped of ano­
ther ; which planet deftroys what is defired. Or by fruftration, which
is when fignificators are coming to an afped, the more weighty planet,
before they ;can make that afped, meets with the conjundion or afped
of .another planet, and thereby frustrates the former afped. Or by re-
franatjon, which is when two fignificators are coming to an afped,. and,
before they can make that afped, the applying planet falls retrograde,
if dired; or, if retrograde, he becomes aired before he can make the faid
afped.
Things are alfo deftroyed by afped, which is when the fignificators
- apply to the qm-rtile or oppofition of one another, without reception $
or by the conjundion of the Sun, which is called combuftion, and is the
greattft afflidion of all. Alfo by feparation, which is, when the fignificators
of the querent, and thing propofed, have lately been in afped, and are
newly leparated, though never fo little ; and this denotes the full and
ablolute deftruCtion of the matter, which we feldoin or ever find to tail.
The quality of the afped likewife (hews the condition of the thing or mat­
ter 1-tely paflcd, if it was good, good $ if evil, evil j and it is eitner
totally dc(tro\c t, or at leaft brought to pafs with much difficulty, if the
translation be made by quartile or oppofition. But more cfpecially if
3 another
Original from
m e u / v n p k ' d i i d i i r I I D D A D V
Digitized by Gc
ksle
u
u
iiid
in
,
u
u
u
y
it:-u
iy
iu
z
.e
u
/
i
i
l
l
|
j
;
/
/
v
v
v
v
v
v
.
i
icau
i
i
l
i
ubL.ui
y/dLL.t:bb_ubfc;-w-pu-yuuyit;
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 283
•nother planet at the fame time (hall tranflate the virtue or light of both
fignificators to Saturn or Mars, or to the lords of evil houfes.
If there be a tranflation between the fignificators by quartile or oppofi-
tion, or by fextileor trine, and, before the tranflation can be made, one
or both of the fignificators fhall go into another fign, the matter will
■come to nothing. If there be prohibition, fruftration, refranation, evil
afpedt, feparation, or evil tranflation, by quattile or oppolition, without
mutual reception, it is enough to deftroy the matter, but more efpecially
if fome or all of them happen to be in fixed figns, and in a fuccedent or
cadent houfeof the figure, or from the houfe fignifying the thing. Move-
able figns are Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn ; fixed figns are Tau­
rus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquaries ; common figns are Gemini, Virgo, Sa-
gittary, and Pifces; angles are the firft, fourth, feventh, and tenth; fuc-
cedents are the fecond, fifth, eighth, and eleventh, houfes ; cadents
are the third, fixth, ninth, and twelfth, houfes.
Q JJ E R Y II. Is the Matter G O O D or E V I L ?
Confider the houfe to which the thing belongs, its lord, and planets
therein; and the houfe fignifying the matter of the end, its lord, and pla­
nets therein; and, if the houfe fignifying the thing be fortified by the
prefence or beams of good planets, or eminent fixed ftars of the firft or
fecond magnitude, or if the Dragon’s Head be there, it fhews good, but
the contrary, evil. The fame more particularly, if the lord of the houfe
fignifying the thing be angular, ftrong, and eflentially fortified ; or in
good afpedt to the cufp of that houfe fignifying the matter Of the end, its
lord, or planets pofited therein ; but the contrary, evil.
Likewife mutual pofition or reception, and the lignificators in good af-
peft with the fuperior planets, or planets more weighty than themfelvcs,
are all teftimonies of good. But the fignificator of the thing peregrine,
flow in motion, retrograde, or feparated from the lord or planet in the
houfe fignifying the matter of the end, are all fignificators of evil. The
houfe fignifying the matter of the end is always that which relates to the
thing or things expe&ed from the queftion propofed ; for example, if the
queftion was. Is it good to remain ? here the end of the query is to be un-
derftood, whether it be for health, wealth, preferment, or the like: if for
health, theafeendant fignifie,s the matter of the end; if wealth, the fecond
houfe ; if preferment, the tenth, and fo on.
Q JJ E R Y III. Is the Report T R U E or F A L S E ?
Thefe judgments are drawn from that houfe, its lord, and planet
therein pofited, fignifying the matter or thing concerning which the re-
No. 14. 3 X port
Original from
m c i* / vr-iD 1/ m id 1 ir' 1 i d d a d v
Digitized by Gc
kgle
284 A N i l l u s t r a t i o n
port is. So, if it be of a brother orother relation, judgment isdrawn front
the third j if of a father, from the fourth ; if of a child, from the fifth ;
if of a fervant, from the fixth j if of a wife, enemies, or war, from the le-
venth j if of a king or prince, from the tenth ; if a lawyer or •clergy­
man, from the ninth, and fo on. If any planet whatfoever be in the houfc
fignifying the thing concerning which the report is, or the Dragon’s
Head be there, or the lord of the fame hoofe be angular, or in conjunction
or afpeCt of any planet, the matter or report is true. But, if the report
was good, and the laid fignificator or planet pofited in the faid houfe be
retrograde or flow in motion, or combuft, or peregrine, or in evil afpedt
of a more weighty planet, or cadent, or in conjunction with the Dragon’s
Tail, or the Dragon’s Tail pofited in the faid houfe, it certainly fignifies
the report is premature ; and fo contrariwife.
\
'I he Moon angular generally fignifies the report to be true ; more ef-
pe&qBv if the report be evil, and fhe be in evil afpedt with malign pla­
nets ; orTf good, and fhe be in good afpedt of the benign. The Moon
in a fixed fign, and in conjunction of the Dragon’s Head, (hews truth
but moveable, void of courfe, and in conjunction of the Dragon’s Tail,
falfehood. Laftly, if it be concerning the furrender of a city, or conqueft.
cither by fca or land j confider the afeendant of the given place, and up­
on what cufp it is pofited in the figure, and accordingly judge in all re-
fpeCts as if that houfe was the real and eflential fignificator of the thing
concerning which the report was made. Hitherto of the eflentiai anfwet
of a queftion : we now come to the accidental.
Q JJ E R Y IV. W here, or which w a y ?
Wherever the fignificator is, there is the thing ; the houfe where the
fignificator is pofited fhews the quarter of heaven, or point of the com-
pafs, which way the thing may be. If the houlc and fign cohere, this
judgment is fo much the more firm j if they difagree, confider the pofi-
tion of the Moon, and with what fhe agrees moft, and give judgment
from her. If the Moon agrees neither with the fign nor houfe in which
the fignificator is pofited, then confider the part of fortune in the fame
manner as before you confidered the Moon, and accordingly judge. And,
if this anfwers not, confider laftly the dilpofitor of the Part of Fortune,
and determine by that.
The diftance is difeovered from the proximity ordiftanceof thefignifi-
cators to body or afpedt, confidered as they may happen to be either an­
gular, fuccedent, or cadent, refpet being had to their latitude, whether
little or great, north or fouth. Great latitude Ihews obfeurity, and great
difficulty
Original from
MEVM V f'IB t' Dl m i I/" I I D D A D V
Digitized by Gouale
^ifinnfi-nrl-w-^c:n
c;c;a~>-)P/fi
in
'K
n
nil
h
pi
r
a
a
m
a
a
/
/
t
I
t
t
i
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
R
i
n
-
a
i
F
i
n
n
n
'i
iipi
i
in
n
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 285
difficulty in finding what is fought for : if the latitude be north, it (hews
difficulty only, not impoffibility ; but, if fouth, then all the labour of
feeking will be in vain, unlefs the fignificators be angular and near in af-
pe<ft. Angles fignifying nearnefs ; fuccedents farther off; and cadents
beyond thought or imagination.
The fignificator angular and without latitude (hews fome paces ; if it*
hath north latitude, fome furlongs diftant ; if fouth, fome miles. The
fignificator fuccedent and without latitude (hews fome furlongs ; if it
hath north latitude, fome miles ; if fouth, fome leagues. The fignifica­
tor cadent and without latitude (hews fome miles; if it hath north la­
titude, fome leagues j if fouth, fome degrees. But thefe rules are chiefly
to be confidcred in things having life ; the former give the knowledge of
the way and difiance in general, and the latter meafure it out diftindlly
by numbers. If it be required to know the true number of paces,
furlongs, miles, leagues, or degrees, of diftance, confider the number of
degrees and minutes between the body or afpedt of the fignificators,
and according to the number of degrees which are between the conjunc­
tion, fcxtile, quartile, trine, or oppofition, fo many paces, furlongs, miles,
leagues, or degrees, is the thing fought after difiant from the place from
whence it was loft, or from the perlon making enquiry. And, fo many
minutes as adhere to the degrees, fo many (ixtieth parts of the fame de­
nomination of the meafure which one degree fignifieth are to be accounted
and added to the former number.
Q JJ E R Y V. W h e n , or i n w h a t T i m e ?
The limitation of time is taken, firftly, by houfeand fign j fecondly, by
afpett ; thirdly, by tranfit; or, fourthly, by direction. The firft three are
ufed in horary queftions, or elections ; the two laft only in nativities
and annual revolutions. If the fignificator hath latitude, the meafure of
time hath its limitation from houle and fign. Whether things are to be
brought to pals or deftroyed, the time, if it be fignified by the houfe and
fign, muft be confidered as the fignificator is angular, (uccedent, or ca­
dent, having moveable, fixed, or common, figns. Angles fignify the
Hidden performance of the matter ; luccedents, long time and with much
difficulty; cadents, fcarcely at all, or at lead when all hopes are part, and
with care and vexation. Angles fignify, if they have moveable figns,
fome days ; if common figns, fome weeks ; and, if, fixed figns, (ome
months. Succedents fignify, if tney have moveable figns, fome months';
if common figns, fome years; and, if fixed figns, when all hopes are paft,
if at all. If it be required to know the certain number of days, weeks,
months, or years, confider the number of degrees and minutes between
the
Digitized by Got ale Original from
M P /i/ V n R k ' DIIQI Ir I I DD A n\ y
2$6 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
the body or afpedfc of the fignificators, and according to the number of de­
grees which are between their conjunction, Textile, quartile, trine, or op-
pofition, fo many days, weeks, months, or years, ftull it be before the
tnatter enquired after fhall be fully accomplifhed or quite deftroyed.
Great fouth latitude often prolongs the time beyond the former limita­
tion ; north latitude often cuts it fhorter ; but, if the hgnijficators have
ho latitude, the limitation of time is made fimply by the afpeCt.
The time fignificators meet by afpeCt is found out in the Ephemeris j
to wit, the month and day thereof in which the fignificators meet. Tran-
fits (hew the progrefs of the matter, whether the fignificators have lati­
tude or not, ind point out the moil probable times in which the matter
may be forwarded or impeded.
In obfervations of tranfits, the figure mud be drawn into a fpeculum.
Find what configurations, viz. what conjunction or afpeCt, it is by
which the matter may be brought to pafs, or deftroyed ; and, laftly, ob-
ferveiin the Ephemeris when the chief fignificators come in the fame
fign, degree, and minute ; for that is the time in which the matter will
be completed. And by the tranfits in the fpeculum may conftantly be
found the good and evil days that affeCt the matter, until it is either per­
fected or become fruftrate.
Q U E R Y VI. H O W or W H Y ?
The planets which make the prohibition or fruftration, whether by
good or evil afpeft, are the hurting, deftroying, or impediting, planets ; to
wit, the planets that fignify he, fhe, or that thing, which fhall hinder
Or deftroy the bufinefs. The man, woman, or thing, is difeovered from
the impediting planet, by confidering what houfes he is lord of, and
what he is pofited' in. The houfe he is lord of denotes the quality or
relation of the man, woman, or thing ; the houfe he is pofited in, the
matter ; and the houfe in which the prohibition or fruftration happens*
thecaufe or reafon.
If the impediting planet is lord of the fecond houfe, it is a matter o f
eftate ; if the third houfe, kindred, neighbours, &c. if of the fourth
houfe, inheritances or fathers ; if of the fifth houfe, gaming, pleafures,
children; if of the fixth houfe, ficknefs, fervants, fmall cattle; if of the
feventh houfe, enemies, law-fuits, wives ; if of the eighth houfe, lega­
cies, wives portions, death ; if of the ninth houfe, religion, churchmen,
voyages at fea, arts, fciences ; if of the tenth houfe, mothers, great men,
trade, honour, offices, employments ; if of the eleventh houfe, hopes,
3 ' friends.
Digitized by Go». ale Original from
MPl/il V n D I ^ DIIDI Ir I I R B A B V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 2S7
friend's, acquaintance; if of the twelfth houfe, great cattle, difeafes,
private enemies, imprifonment, &c. Then confider whether the pla­
net is good or evil, mafeuline or feminine, or whether in a mafeuline
or feminine fign and houfe, and accordingly judge of the effe&s more
retnifs or exaCt, as they may be brought to pafs either by man, woman,
or thing; judging always in this cafe by the fuperior teftimonies. And
obferve, laftly, that, whatfoever has been faid of the impediting or hin­
dering planet, the fame is to be underftoad of the planet adjuvant, or
helping.
The next thing to be confidered, is the propriety of the queftion pro-
pofed, and the fincerity of the querent ; for it fometimes happens that
queftions are improperly and incorre&ly dated; and at others, that they
are put through knavery and impertinence, with a view to injure and
- difgrace the artift. In thefe cafes, the queftion not being radical, no
anfwer can be obtained ; and therefore he who attempts to refolve them
will bring fhame upon himfelf, and difgrace upon the fcience. Every
queftion, to be radical, muft be fincere and natural; and, unlefs they are
fo, they cannot be refolved. Therefore, to afeertain their fincerity on
the one hand, and their fitnefs or unfitnefs on the other, the following
rules muft be obferved.
Eredl the figure as before dire&ed; and, if the fign afeending and the
planet in the afeendant deferibe exactly the perfon of the querent, the
queftion is radical, and fit to be judged. But, if either the very begin­
ning or extreme end only of the fign afeends, it will not be proper to
give judgm ent; for it denotes the querent to be a knave, and the queftion
a forgery, propofed merely out of ridicule and intemperate mirth. This
rule I have often verified in practice, by direCtly charging the querent with
fuch defign; and the effeCt this unexpected difeovery had upon them has
ufually produced an acknowledgment of it. The fame thing is indicated
by the quartile or oppofition of the Moon with the lord of the feventh
houfe; or by the Moon being void of courfe, or combuft; which pofitions
likewife denote the queftion to be improperly and incorreCtly ftated. Sa­
turn in the afeendant, impedited and afflicted, (hews the queftion propofed
to be either falfe, or without ground, or the fubject of it paft hope; and
whenever the lord of the afeendant is found combuft or retrograde, it in­
dicates the fame thing, and fhews the queftion is propofed to anfwer fome
abfurd or knavifh purpofe, and therefore not to be meddled with.
Any queftion may be deemed radical, when the lord of the afeendant
and the lord of the hour are of the fame nature and triplicity. Thus,
fuppofe Leo afeends upon the horofeope at the time the queftion is pro-
No. 14. 3 Y pofed>
Original from
MCIA/ v n B
Y Dl ID I Ir I I RDABV
Digitized by Go*, sle
288 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
pofed, and 'Mars happens to be lord of the hoar, the queftion will be
radical, becaufe the Sun, which is lord of the horofcope, and Mars, arc
of one nature, viz. hot and dry. So, if Jupiter be lord of the hour,
the queftion will be radical, becaufe the Sun and Jupiter are of the fame
triplicity ; and this obfervation extends to all the other planets, anduni-
formly fhews the queftion proper to be judged. But, whenever the tef-
timonies or fignificators in the figure are found equally ftrong for and
againft the matter propounded, it ought not to be adjudged} for theartift
knows not which way the balance may yield, and therefore judgement
fhould be deferred to a future time.
There is one rule by which the radicalnefs of a queftion may beafcer-
taincd with greater certainty, or at leaft with lefs probability of mif-
take, than by any other} and this is by the moles with which every
perfon is more or lefs marked. It is really an aftonifhing fa61, and no
lefs extraordinary than true, that thefe moles or marks are all uniformly
diftinguiftied by the figns and planets which prevail at the time of birth,
if not abfolutely produced by them. It was the truth and univerfality
of this obfervation which firft led to the difcovery of that affection and
government which the celeftial figns have upon the different members of
man’s body ; a fa£l fo obvious, that, notwithftanding all endeavours to
refute the idea of planetary influence, yet this fadt is annually recorded
in every almanac, and finds a place in almoft every other agronomical
publication.
According to this rule, whenever a perfon comes to propound a quef­
tion, let a figure of the twelve houfes be eredted for the querent; then
note what fign is upon the cufp of the afeendant, and in the part of the
querent’s body which that fign governs, if the queftion Be radical, the
querent will have a mole. For inftance, if Aries be the fign afeending
at the time, the mole will be on the head or face; if Taurus, on the neck
or throat; if Gemini, on the arms orfhoulders } if Cancer, on the breaft;
and fo upon any other part of the body which the fign afeending (hall
govern. Obferve next, in which of the twelve houfes the lord of the
afeendant is pofited, and in that part of the body the fign governs which
happens to fall upon the cufp of that houfe will the querent have another
mole. Next obferve the fign defeending on the cufp of the fixth houfe,
and in whatever part of the body that fign governs the querent will find
another mole ; and upon that member alfo which is fignified by the fign
wherein the lord of the fixth houfe is pofited will be found another,
Obferve alfo what fign the Moon is pofited in, and in that part of the
body which is governed by it lhall themative or querent find another
mole. If the planet Saturn be the fignificator, the mole is either black
or
Digitized by Go».igle Original from
m c i a / Dl IP I i r I I P P A P V
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 289
or of a dark colour; if Mars be fignificator, and in a fiery fign, it then re- a
fembles a fear, cut, or dent, in the flefli ; but in any other fign it is a red r '
mole. If Jupiter be 'tbe fignificator, the mole is of a purple or bluifli
caft ; if the Sun, it is of an olive or chefnut colour ; if Venus, it is yel­
low ; if Mercury, of a pale lead colour j if the Moon, it is whitifh, or
participates of the colour of that planet with which (he happens to be in
afpedt. And, if the planet which gives the mole be much impedited or
afflidted, the mark or mole will be larger and more vilible.
If the fign and planet which gives the mark or mole be rriafculine, it
is then fituated on the right fide of the body; but if feminine, on the
left fide. If the fignificator or planet which gives the mole be found a-
bove the horizon, that is,, from the cufp of the afeendant to the cufp of
the feventh, either in the twelfth, eleventh, tenth, ninth, eighth, or fe-
venth, houfe, the mark or mole will be on the fore part of the body; but
if the fignificator be under the earth, that is, in either the firft, fecond,
third, fourth, fifth, or fixth,. houfe, it will be fituated on the back
or hinder part of the body. If only a few degrees of the-fign afeend upon
the horofeope, or defeend on the fixth ; or if the lord of the afeendant,
lord of the fixth, or the Moon, bepofited in the beginning of any fign ;
the mole or mark will be found upon the upper part of the member thofe
figns govern. If half the degrees of a fign afeend, or the fignificators be
pofited in the middle of any fign, the mark or inole will be in the middle
of the member ; but, if the laft degrees of a fign afeend, or the fignifica­
tors are in the latter degrees of a fign, the mark or mole will then be fi­
tuated on the lower part of the member fuch fign governs.
If the queftion be radical, the time rightly taken, and the querent fin-
cere, and of fufficient'age, this rule will feldom or ever be found to fail.
In afeertaining the exadl time of any perfon’s nativity, I have found it of
excellent u f e ;never having been once deceived by it in the finalleft de­
gree. In company I have frequently tried the experiment upon a ftran-
ger, and ever found it correfpond, to the aftonilhent of all perfons
prefent ; and it is an experiment which any reader may eafily make upon
himfelf or friends. But in the months of November and December,
when figns of fhort afeenfions are upon the afeendant, great care mud be
taken to beexadt in point of time ; for in thofe months the Sun is fre­
quently not vifible, and clocks are not always to be depended upon ;
therefore without proper care the right afeendant may eafily be milled,
for Pifces and Aries both afeend in the fpace of fifty minutes, ond Aqua-
ries and Taurus in little more than an hour ; but, if the time be taken ex-
adt, no one need ever miftruft the certainty of thefe rules, and the exact
conformity of the marks or moles to the figns and planets which repre-
fent
Digitized by
^ G o o g l e
Original from
v n o k ' Dl IPI Ir I I D R A D V
*9o A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
font them. Thus, by looking at a perfon’s nativity, and attending to thefe
rules, the reader may exactly point out and defcribe the moles in any part
of the native’s body, though it be a perfon he never faw or converfed
with ; and, if he is corredt :to time, he may fafel-y venture his life upon
the matter. And by the fame kind of fimple, eafy, and certain, rules, arc
all predictions in aftrology managed ; fothat, inftead of calling in the aid
of any fupernatural or infernal compadt, it only requires to be corredt to
time and calculation, and to know the true nature and influence of the
planets, and by thefe alone are the events and contigencies of futurity
demonftrated and foretold.
As thefe rules hold good upon the body of every querent, fo will they,
m utatis m utandis,upon the body of the quefited ; for example, Suppofe
a perfon enquires concerning a wife or fweetheart, then the feventh houfe
will be her nrffc oralcendant, and the twelfth her fixth ; and in thofe parts
of her body which the figns upon the cufps of thofe houfes govern fhall
£be have moles ; and fo by the Moon and other fignificators. It is alfo
found by conftant obfervation, that an infortune pofitedin the afeendant
always marks theface with a mole or fear; for the afeendant oriirft houfe
always reprefents the face, let what fign foever afeend; thefecond repre-
fents the neck, the third the arms and flioulders, the fourth the breaft,
and fo on, every houfe and fign in order, according to its fucceffion. It
is alfo obfervable, that, if the Moon be in conjundlion or oppofition of the
Sun, in an evil afpedt to Mars, apd in angular houfes, the querent has a
natural infirmity or blemifh in or near one of his eyes. Thus having
fhewn how to difeover whether queftions are proper and radical, or not;
we fhall now diredthow to give judgement upon them.
Q JJ E S T I O N S proper to the F I R S T H O U S E .
The firft houfe has fignification of the life of every perfon, and expref-
fes the ftature and temperature of the body ; and in Horary Queftions
thefe following are proper unto it:
1. O f thelength o f the Querent's l
i
f
e
.
2. O f the good or e v il attending l
i
f
e
.
3. W hen or in w h a t tim e fh a ll the n ative undergo a change ?
4. W h a t p a r t o f the Q uerent's life is likely to be mojl p rof'perous ?
£. *
'T ow ardw h a t p a r t o f the w o rld may he direct his affairs to p r o f p e r in
them ?
6. A perfon havin g a defire to fp ea k w ith another,f a l l h e fn d him a t home
n . O f an abfent p
a
r
t
y
, i f dead or a live.
b. O f aJhip a t f
e
a
, her fa fe ty or dejlruftion.
3 '
Digitized by Got sle Original from
V r t P k ' Dl IP I Ir I I R B A P V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 291
Thefe particulars, being explained, will give light fufficient to the aftro-
logian, whereby he may judge of any other queftion proper to this houfe.
O f theL en gth o f the Q uerent's
To refolve this queftion, obferve the fign afcending, the lord thereof,
and the Moon ; and if they arc found free from the malignant beams of
the infortunes, or of the lords of the fourth, fixth, eighth, and twelfth,
houfes, and not combuft, the querent’s life will not be Ihort; and, if
the fignificators are not afflidted by the prefence of violent fixed ftars, it
may be ftill further prolonged ; but if the lord of the afcendant be com­
buft and retrograde, and in an evil houfe of heaven, the querent is not
likely to live long. When the fignificators are unfortunately afpedted
from good places of the figure, or the benevolent planets interpofe their
rays, the malevolence threatened will be fomewhat abated ; but if it be
from evil houfes in the horofcope, and the benevolent planets afford no
help, danger of a fhort life is much to be feared.
O f the Good or E v il attending L ife ?
The good or evil that attends each perfon is diftinguiflied by the for­
tunate and unfortunate radiations in the figure. When benevolent pla­
nets poffels the afcendant, or the principal places of the figure, they in­
dicate much good to the querent through the whole courfe of his life.
And if the lord of the afcendant and the Moon be friendly afpedted by
the beams of the fortunes, although from malignant places of the fcheme,
yet it prefages good to the native, inafmuch as an accidental evil cannot
rebate or withftand an effential good. But when the infortunes poffefs
thefe places, or by evil afpedt afflidt the fignificators, the querent will be
fubjedt to a troublefome life. If Saturn poffefs the afcendant, the querent
will be melancholy and penfive, and fubjedt to perplexities from aged
men. If Mars, he will be choleric, and liable to oppreflion by knaves
and fwindlers, and fometimes by the treachery of kindredj if the Dra­
gon’s Tail be in the afcendant, he will never be free from fcandal and dif-
grace. When the afflidting planets are lords of unpropitious houfes,
the evil will be longer durable ; but, when the affifting planets are lords
of good houfes, the good will be the more permanent. Note alfo the
houfes thofe planets govern j for from thence is difeovered by what
means the querent fhall be fortunate or unhappy. And, as the malignant
beams of the evil planets prevent or eclipfe the good that is fignified, fo
Jhe benevolent rays of the fortunate ftars reverberate much of the mif-
chief portended : by duly confidering which, according to the ftrength of
the planets affifting or afflidting, the extent of the good or evil that at­
tends each querent’s life may be nearly afeertained.
No. 15. 3 Z In
Original from
M P / i f VflDfc' Dl IQI I f I IDE?
Digitized by Goosle
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
In w h a t Timethe N a tiv e may a
Whenever this queftion is ferioufly propounded, and the nativity of
the proponent not attainable, (for, if the nativity can be had, horary
queftions are ufelefs,) ereCt the figure, and draw it into a fpeculum, and
direCf the feveral fignificators to their promittors, as in a nativity. Find
the true diftance of each fignificator from its promittor, and turn it into
time, as in a nativity, and according to the effects of the directions judge
of it. But this method is only to be taken when queftions of weighty
concern are propounded; upon any trivial or ordinary bufinefs it is wholly
unneceflary. In matters of little importance, it is fufficient to ob-
ferve the degrees of diftance between the fignificators, either of their
bodies or afpedts, which will point out the time correCtly enough. When
fixed ftars of a violent nature occupy the principal parts of the figure,
the afcendant, mid-heaven, or place of the Moon, they prefage fudden and
unexpected mifchief; but, when fixed ftars of a noble and generous na­
ture poflefs thofe places, they demonftrate fudden and permanent good
to the querent.
W h a t P a r t o f the Q uerent's L ife is likely to be m of profperous f
To refolve this queftion, it only requires to obferve in what part of the
figure the fortunate ftars are, and according to their pofition judge of it.
If the propitious planets are in the afcendant, the twelfth or eleventh
houfes, the native will profper moft in his younger days. If in the tenth,
ninth, or eighth, in the middle part of his age. If in the feventh, fixth,
or fifth, after his middle age. If in the fourth, third, or fecond, his
latter days will be the moft comfortable and happy. The time is afcer-
tained by reckoning for every houfe fituated between the fortunate
planets and the afcendant five years, if the fignificators of life be weak ;
if moderately dignified, fix ; but, if the fignificators of life are remarka­
bly ftrong and well dignified, then feven years may be reckoned for every
houfe.
T ow ard w h a t P a r t o f the W orld may the Shierent direSi his Courfe to
profper?
It is a misfortune not very uncommon for perfons to undertake long
journeys and voyages, much to their prejudice and difadvantage ; for, al­
though all places are alike to him that made the earth, yet they are not fo
to men that poffefs i t ; therefore it will be requifite for thofe who judge
queftions of this kind to obferve the following rules, or at leaft as many
of tfiem as may be neceflary. The whole canopy of the heavens is di-
2 vided
,itiz
M
b
,Google Original from
MCWU v n D k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D P A D V
O P AS T R OL OGY.
vided into four quarters ; eaft, weft, north, and fouth ; and thefe four
quarters are again fubdivided, viz. the firft houfe is full eaft, and the
twelfth houfe, being in afcenfion next unto it, is eaft by fouth ; the ele­
venth next unto that, fouth by eaft; and the mid-he.ven fouth, &c.
Now according to thefe quarters of the heavens, thus divided and fub-
divided, look for the benevolent planets Jupiter, Venus, Luna, and the
part of fortune, or the mod of them, and direct the querent in his affairs
thither. For example, fuppofe thefe planets (hall be in the mid-heaven,
that being fouth, diredt the querent fouthward; if they be in the ninth,
it is beft to go fouth-weft. If in the weft, it is his intereft to go full
weft; and fo of the reft. Confider alfo the nature of the querent's de-
fire, whether it be for health, riches, honour, friends, &c. that he en­
gages in his undertaking; for, by rightly undcrfhnding the queftion, the
querent’s defire (hall be the more readily anfwered. If it be for health
he would remove his habitation, obferve where or in what quarter the
lord of the afcendant and the Moon are pofited, and diredt him that
way. If for riches, take notice of the lord of the fecond and the part
of fortune. If for honour, confider the Sun and the lord of the tenth*
If for friends, the lord of the eleventh; and fo of the other fignificators.
A Perfonhavin g im portant Bufmefs w ith another, Jhall befin d him a t Home ?
The truth I have always found in the anfwers to this queftion princi­
pally induced me to give it a place here; for I have often tried the ex­
periment, both for myfelf and others, and have never known it to fail.
The rules are thefe: If you would fpeak with a perfon that you have fa­
miliar andconftant dealings with, but no way related, take the feventh
houfe and his lord to fignify him, that is the feventh from the afcendant;
for the afcendant always fignifies the querent. If the lord of the fe­
venth be in any of the four angles, viz. in the firft, fourth, feventh, or
tenth, houfes, the perfon you would fpeak with is certainly at home. If
the lord of the feventh be in any of the luccedent houfes, viz. in the fe­
cond, fifth, eighth, or eleventh, he is not then at home, but is near it,
and may with a little diligence be found; but if the lord of the feventh
be in any one of the cadent houfes, viz. the third, fixth, ninth, or
twelfth, the party is far from home, and confcquently cannot be
with if fought for. If the lord of the afcendant apply to the lord of the
feventh by a friendly afpedt at the time of enquiry, the querent may per­
haps meet the quelited, or accidentally hear of him by the way. Or, if
the Moon or any other planet transfer the light of the lord of the feven.h
to the lord of the afcendant, it denotes the fame thing. The nature and
fex of the planet transferring the light denotes what manner of perfon
fliall give notice to the querent of the perfon he enquires after, accord­
ing
Digitized by Go<.>sle Original from
m p a / di i m 1r i i b b a b v
294 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
ing to the fign and quarter he is pofited in. But, if the perfon enqui­
red after be a relation, then the lord of the feventh is not to be taken,
but the lord of that houfe which fignifies fuch relation; as, if it be a
brother, then the lord of the third mud be referred to; if a father, re­
gard mud be had to the lord of the fourth ; if a fon or daughter, obferve
the lord of the fifth, and foon; and, according to their politions, judge
as above fpecified.
theP a r ty long abfentbe dead or alive ?
Herein alfo mud be confidered what relation the querent hath to the
party quefited, and take the fignificator accordingly. But, if there be no
relation between them, then take the afcendant, his lord, and the Moon,
to fignify the party that is abfent; and judge thus: If the lord of the
afcendant, or the Moon, be in conjunction with the lord of the eighth,
or a planet in the eighth, and no benevolent teftimonies concur, the ab­
fent party is certainly dead. Or when the Moon, and the lord of the
afcendant, fhall be in oppofition to the lord of the eighth, from the fe-
cond and eighth, or from the fixth and twelfth, houfes, the abfent party
is likewife dead. If the lord of the afcendant be in the fourth, and the
Moon in the feventh, in quartile to him, it fhews great danger to the
quefited, if not abfolute death. When an evil planet fhall tranfiate the
light of the lord of the eighth unto the lord of the afcendant, or of the
lord of the afcendant to the lord of the eighth, it is moft probable the
abfent party is dead. If the lord of the afcendant and the Moon be in
the fourth houfe from the afcendant, or in the houfe of death, and either
combuft, or in their fall, or joined with the lord of the eighth, the par­
ty quefited is undoubtedly deceafed; but if none of thefe pofitions hap­
pen, and on the contrary you find the Moon, and the afcendant, and its
lord, flrong and well fortified, the abfent party is alive and well. If the
lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, feparate from the lord of the fixth,
the abfent party has been lately fick; if from the lord of the eighth,
he has been in danger of death; if from the lord of the twelfth, he has
been in prifon, and fuffered much anxiety of mind. And, by thus vary­
ing the rule, his condition, according to the application and feparation
of the fignificators, will be corredlly found.
O f a Ship a t Sea, her Safety or D e fru ftio n ?
This queftion, although attributed by the ancient Arabian and Latin
aftrologers to the ninth houfe, becaufe it relates to voyages, yet the
judgment hereof being fuch asproperly relates to the firft houfe or afcen­
dant
Digitized by Google Original from
K
H
Z t \sr\o is m i n i i r- i i n n A n v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 295
dant, I have for that reafon referred it thereto. The parts of the (hip
are thus divided according to the figns of the zodiac*.
*
v
* The bread of the (hip
1» Under the bread toward the
water
'n The rudder or dern
23 The bottom or floor
& The top above the water
»r The belly of the (hip
a That part above the bread in
the water
tn Where the mariners abide
t The mariners
v? The ends of the (hip
ss The captain or mader
X The oars.
The afcendant and the Moon are generally fignificators of the (hip, and
the burden (he bears; but the lord of the afcendant is fignificator of the
perfons thatfail in her. And, if inaquedion all thefe appear fortunate, they
denote profperity to the (hip; but, if on the contrary they are found im-
pedited and afflidted, the veflel and all in her are in imminent danger, if not
abfolutely lod. When amalevolent planet, having dignities in the eighth
houfe, (hall be found in the afcendant, or the lord of the afcendant in
the eighth, in evil afpedt with the lord of the eighth, twelfth, fixth, or
fourth, houfe, or if the Moon be combufl under the earth, all thefe are
indications of danger, and prefage the (hip either to be lod, or in a very
defperate condition. But when all the fignificators are free, and no way
impedited, it denotes the (hip to be in a very good and profperous con­
dition, and all the perfons and things on-board her. If the afcendant and
the Moon be unfortunate, and the lord of the afcendant drong, and in a
good houfe, it indicates the (hip to be in an ill condition; but the men,
&c. that are on-board her, will do well, and come home in fafety. But
if the afcendant in the Moon (hall be fortunate, and the lord of the af-
cendant unfortunate, it (hews that the veflel will do well, or that it is in
fafety; but that her crew are in danger of being dedroyed by fome putrid
difeafe, or of being taken by an enemy.
If any perfon enquires what fuccefs a (hip (hall have in her voyage
upon her fetting fail, you mud then note the angles of the figure; and
if the fortunate planets and the Moon (for (he is lady of the feas) arc
found therein, and the unfortunate planets cadent, or in an abjedt con­
dition, it forcfhews the (hip and her lading will go very fafely unto the
intended haven. But if the infortunes be in angles, or in fuccedent
houfes, (he will meet with fome accident in her voyage; and the mif-
fortune will fall upon that part of the (hip, perfon, or thing in the fame,
* D a S ignum <\r, pe& oribus navis; 8 , ei quod eft fub pe& oribus m odicum verfus aq u am ; n ,
gubernaculo n av is; 2 3 , fu n d o n av is; f t , fum m itati navis quae flat fuper eq u am ; ventri n a v is;
ei quod fublevatur et d ep rim it de p eftoribus navis in aq u a; tq , loco ubi m orant nauta ; Jf,
ip n n au tae; Vf, finibus exittentibus in nave'; xr, m agiftro navis; X , rem is.— H aly de Judic.
A ftrol. parts tertia, cap. 14. fol. i i j .
No* 15. 4 A fignified
Digitized by Google Original from
M P U f V n R V ' Dl ID I I r I I B R A
s
i
f
i
n
n
f
i
-
n
r
l
-
w
-
a
Q
n
i
m
<
;
n
n
i
l
h
p
i
r
A
A
A
A
A
A
//T
h
n
i
/
n
p
>
7
n
i
F
i
i
n
-
p
>
i
f
S
n
n
n
'
i
i
i
P
i
i
m
n
296 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
fignified by the fign where the infortune i« pofited. And, if the infor*
tune threatening this danger {hall be Saturn, the vefiel will either be
fplit or funk, and mod of the crew either drowned or fubjedt to many
hardfflips. But if the infortunate be Mars, and he in any ot his efiential
dignities, or afpedting a place where he hath ftrength, or pofited in an
earthy fign, he portends the farne mifehief, with the additional misfortune
of the crew being either taken by an enemy, imprifoned, or carried into
flavery. But if the fortunes caft their friendly beams unto either of the
aforefaid places, and the lords of the angles, particularly of the afeendant
and the difpofitor of the Moon, be free, it denotes that, although the {hip
{hall undergo much damage, or be loft, yet the major part of the men and
goods (hall be faved. But if Mars afflidt the lords of the angles, and dif­
pofitor of the Moon, the men and the {hip will be in danger of pirates,
or of a public enemy. And, if any other evil affedtions appear in the figns,
there will be quarrelling and contention, or fome dangerous mutiny, in
the ftiipj and this will chiefly happen when the infortunes are located in
thofe figns which difpofe of the parts in the upper divifion of the {hip.
But, if Saturn afflict in the fame manner as above recited of Mars, there
will be many difturbances in the {hip, but no bloodihed. And, if the in-
fortunate figns fignify the bottom or lower part of the {hip, it prefages
drowning by means of fome dangerous leak. If fiery figns be in the mid­
heaven, near violent fixed ftars, and Mars prove the affli&ing planet, the
{hip will be burnt, either by fome accident within her, or by lightning,
or by the falling of fome inflammable meteor. But, if Mars be in an hu­
man fign, the burning of the {hip will be occafioned by fome engagement
with an enemy ; and the danger will begin in that part of the {hip fignified
by the fign wherein the infortune was placed in the figure. If Saturn be
the threatening planet inftead of Mars, and pofited in the mid-heaven,
the veffel will be caft away, or damaged by the motion of violent ftorms
and winds, or by reafon of leaks, or bad fails; and the danger will be
either greater or lefs, in proportion to the dignity or power of the infor­
tune, and his diftance from the beams of the benevolent planets.
If the lord of the afeendant in the figure be fortunate, the {hip Cball
return with fafety and good fuccefs j but, if he be unfortunate, Ihe {hall
fuffer much lofs and damage. If the lord of the eighth houfe fhull af­
flict the lord of the afeendant; or if the lord of the afeendant be in the
eighth, it denotes the death of the captain or mafteE of the ftfip, or fome
of the principal officers belonging to her. And if the Part of Fortune
and part of fubftance, and their lords, (hall be afflicted, it denotes lofs
in the fale of the goods that are in the {hip. But if, inftead of this afflic­
tion, they fhall he in fortunate pofitions, it denotes much gain, and a
profitable
Digitized by Google Original from
m c v m v n d i i p 1 i r 1 i p d aV v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 297
profitable voyage. When the lord of the afcendant, and the difpofitor
of the Moon, (hall be flow of courfe, the (hip in all likelihood will make
along and tedious voyage; more particularly if the lords of thofe places
be flow alfo. But, if the flgnificators be quick in motion, the ftfip will
make a fhorter or quicker voyage than may be expected. If in the figure
there be enmity in the politions between the lord of the afcendant and
the difpofitor of the Moon, and no reception between them, nor any aid
from benevolent planets; the feamen will contend one with another, or
there will be difcord between the captain, or matter, and the crew; and
he whofe fignificator 19 ftrongett, {hall overcome: that is if the lord of
the afcendant be moft powerful, the feamen will prevail; but, if the
difpofitor of the Moon be beft fortified, the matter or captain will over­
come. If the lord of the fecond fliall be remote from his own houfe,
and the fccond houfe from the Moon, and the lord of the part of for­
tune, from the part of fortune, in cadent houfes, or in quartile or oppo-
fition, it prefages want of neceflary provifions ; and, if they be found In
aquatical figns, it fliews want of frefti water, and great danger of death
by hunger and thirft.
QUESTIONS proper to the SECOND HOUSE.
The fecond houfe being the houfe of fubftance, the questions p r o p e r
to it are as follow :
1. S h all the Q uerent be rich or poor?
2. B yw h a t M eans Jhallhe attain Riches ?
3. The Time when ?
4. Shall he obtain the Goods or M oney lent ?
5. Shall he obtain the W ages or Stipend due to him ?
Shall the Q uerent be rich or poor ?
In refolving this queftion, obferve the fign of the fecond houfeand its
lord, the planet or planets located therein, and catting their rays to the
cufp, or the lord thereof; the part of fortune alfo, and its difpofitor; and,
if all thefe flgnificators are free, and affirted by the bodies or afpedts of
the benevolent planets, the querent will attain a very confiderable for­
tune; *ad ftnil1
-efcape pcuzer4yr But when the flgnificators are affli&ed,
and the fortunate ftars afford them no afliftance, it denotes the perfon in­
terrogating will be poor all his life-time. If the lord of the afcendant,
or the Moon, be joined to the lord of the houfe of fubftance; or the lord
of the feventh houfe to the lord of the afcendant; or if the lord of the
houfe of fubftance be pofited in the afcendant; or if the lord of the af­
cendant and the Moon be in the houfe of fubftance; or if the Moon,
or
Original from
M P U / Dl ID I i r I I Q P A Q V
Digitized by Go*.>ak
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
or any other planet, transfers the light of the lord of the fecond houfe to
the lord of the afcendant, or of the lord of the afcendant to the lord of
the fecond houfe ; the querent will attain riches, and live in good efteem,
according to his fituation or birth. But, if none of thefe portions hap­
pen, then note Jupiter, the natural fignificator of fubftance; or Venus,
who alfo is a fortune; or the Dragon’s head, which always portends
good; and if they be free from the ill beams of the infortunes, or happen
to be poll ted in the houfe of fubftance, the querent will moil certainly be
rich, and will bear great fway in the place where he lives. When Saturn,
Mars, or the Dragon’s tail, are pofited in the fecond houfe, or affliCt the
lord of the fecond, Jupiter, Venus, or part of fortune, it is an argument
that the querent will not attain riches; or, if he were in a good capacity,
he will be reduced to a very mean fituation. The fignificators of fub­
ftance fwift in motion, and in good parts of the figure, and free from af­
fliction, fliew the querent will be rich of a fudden; but, if they are flow
in motion, though not afflicted, the querent will attain riches but flow.
ly ; particularly if the planets fignifying riches are ponderous, and in
fixed figns.
B y w h a tM eans Jhall the Q uerent attain Riches ?
The fignificators of fubftance, their feveral locations, and the houfes
they govern, are in this queftion to be particularly attended to; for
from thence is known by what means riches come. If the lord of the
fecond houfe, or the other fignificators of fubftance, be fortunately placed
in the afcendant, the querent will attain great riches without much la­
bour, in a manner unexpectedly ; but, if the lord of the fecond be in the
fecond, it fhews the querent will obtain an eftate by his own induftry.
The adjuvant planets lituated in the afcendant, or the lord thereof, denote
the querent will advance himfelf by his own induftry. If the lord of the
fecond be in the fecond, he acquires wealth by merchandize, and by
properly managing his bufinefs; if in the third, or lord of the third, he
gains by brethren, kindred, or neighbours. The moft allured teftimonies
upon queftions of this nature, are thefe : If the lord of the firft and fecond,
and Jupiter, be in conjunction either in the fecond, firft, tenth, fourth,
feventh, or eleventh, houfes; or if they apply by fextile or trine to each
other with mutual reception; but if they apply by quartile or oppofition,
with reception, the party will then alfo thrive, and have an eftate, though
with much labour and difficulty.
‘
th e tim e when a M an may attain Riches ?
Confider ferioufly the applications of the Moon, or lord of the afcen­
dant, unto the planet or planets fignifying the fubftance of the querent;
for
Original from
m p \ a / v n D i i m i r i i d r a d v
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 299
✓
fortheydenote the time when the querent may acquire riches. Then
find the degrees of diftance between the fignificators, and turn them
into time, which will fhew the true diflance of time in which riches, or
the goods of fortune, are attainable by the querent. Fixed figns prolong
the bufinefs; but corporal fhew an indifferency, or that the time will
neither be long nor fhort. Moveable or cardinal figns haften the matter.
In all queflions that relate to time, the furefl way is, to take the right or
oblique afcenlions of the fignificators, and direct them to their feveral
promittors, as in a nativity; and thus the time of a man’s obtaining
riches may be exactly known ; but, if the queftion be of fmall confequence,
obferve the degrees of diftance ; and, according to the figns they are in,
meafure out the time in years, months, weeks, or days, as before di­
rected.
S h all the Q uerent obtain the Goods or M oney lent ?
In this queftion the lord of the afcendant, and the Moon, are figni-
/ ficators of the querent; and the lord of the fecond denotes his fubftance.
But the feventh houfe and its lord reprefent the perfon of whom you
enquire; and the eighth houfe, and the lord thereof, his fubftance. Ob­
ferve whether the lord of the afcendant or the Moon be joined to the
lord of the eighth, who is fignificafor of the fubftance of the party en­
quired after; for if either of them be joined to, or in good afpedt with, a
planet in the eighth houfe, and the planet therein happens to be a benefic
ftar, the querent fhall then obtain the goods or money enquired after.
And if it fhall fo happen, that an infortune be either in the eighth houfe,
or lord of the eighth, and receives either the lord of the afcendant or the
Moon, the perfon enquiring fhall obtain what he expects; but not
without reception. When the lord of the eighth is pofited in the firft or
fecond houfe, and the lord of the fecond fhall receive him, it denotes the
perfection of the bufinefs enquired after. But, if the lord of the feventh
or eighth fhall be pofited in the firft or fecond, and be not received by
either the lord of the afcendant, the Moon, or lord of the fecond, it
fhews the querent will not only go without his defire, but, if he purfues
the bufinefs, will fuftain much lofs and detriment. If the lord of the
afcendant or the Moon be joined to one of the fortunes, which have
dignity in the fign afcending, it denotes the difpatch of the bufinefs en­
quired after; or if either of them be joined to an infortune, having dig­
nities in the afcendant, and receives the lord of the afcendant, or the
Moon, it denotes the accomplifhment of the matter or bufinefs enquired
after. And, if the fortunes be in powerful places of the figure, and
joined to the lord of the afcendant or the Moon, the matter or bufinefs
will be accomplifhed, although there be no reception.
N o. 15. 4 B I f
Digitized by Got ale Original from
V f l D ^ Dl I P I I r I I R D A D V
I f theQ uerent Jhall obtain his W ages, Salary, or due .
either fr o m G overnm ent or fr o m an Individual.
Behold the afeendant, the lord of the fame, and the Moon, for they
have fignification of the querent; and the fecond from the afeendant,
which is the querent’s houfe of fubftance, and its lord. And note the
tenth houfe and its lord, which are the fignificators of the quefited. And
the eleventh houfe, and its lord, fignify the fubftance of him or them.
If in the figure the lord of the afeendant or the Moon be joined to the
lord of the eleventh, or to a fortunate planet in the eleventh houfe, with­
out let or impediment, the querent will certainly obtain the wages or
falary. And if it fhall happen that the Moon or lord of the afeendant
be joined to a malefic planet, and an unfortunate planet receives them,
the querent will then obtain his defire, although it will be after long
waiting and with many folicitations. But if there be no reception be­
tween the lord of the afeendant, the Moon, and the infortune, notwith-
ftanding any oppofition between them, yet the querent will rarely ob­
tain his money or falary enquired after. If the fignificators are in friendly
afpe<ft from good houfes of heaven, and this without impediment or hin­
drance, the querent will be fuccefsful; but, if infortunes impede the
fignificator of the querent’s good, confider what houfe he is lord of, and
that will point out the perfon or thigg that obftrudts it.
JU D G M EN TS proper to the T H IR D HOUSE.
This houfe appertains to brethren, fillers, kindred, and neighbours; to
inland journeys, and rumours; and therefore thefe queftions are particu­
larly moft proper to it:
1. Shall the Q uerent and his B reth ren , N eighbours, accord?
2 . O f the Condition and EJlate o f an abfent B ro th er?
3. S h all the Q uerent's inland Journeys be profperous ?
4. R eports and Rum ours, whether true or
5. O f the A d vice o f a F riend, & c . i f good or b a d ?
Many other queftions may be propounded, that properly pertain to this
houfe; but whoever underftands the manner of judging thefe, may tvith
eafe anfwer any other that may be propofed.
Shall the Q uerent and his B reth ren , & c, or N eighbours, accord ?
The Moon, the afeendant, and its lord, are the fignificators of the
querent; and the third houfe, and its lord, of the quefited. The queftion
is refolved thus: If the lord of the third houfe be a benevolent planet,
and
Digitized by Google Original from
v r > p V Dl ID I i r I I R R A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 30 r
and in the afcendant, or the Moon be in good afpeft with a fortunate
planet in the third, the querent and his brethren and neighbours will
agree well. When the lord of the afcendant and lord of the third are in
fextile or trine to each other, and in mutual reception j or the lord of the
third carts a fextile or trine to the cufp of the afcendant; and the lord of
the afcendant or the Moon carts the fame to the cufp of the third houfe;
it is an argument of great unity, love, and concord, between them. When
a fortunate planet is in the afcendant, and the lord of the afcendant be­
holds the cufp of the third, or applies friendly to the lord of the third, it
isan argument of agood difpolition in the querent, and fpeaks him willing
to accord with his brethren, kindred, and neighbours. And if a fortune
be in the third, and the lord of the third apply in harmony to the lord of
the afcendant, the brethren, kindred, or neighbours, are moft indulging.
Thofe perfons whofe fignificators do not apply are moft imperious, and
apt to difigree; and thofe, whofe fignificators make application, are flexi­
ble, willing, and yielding, and defirous of agreement and concord. When
Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon’s Tail, in fuch a quertion, fhall be in the
afcendant, it denotes the perlon enquiring to be obftinate, and averfe
to a friendly agreement; but if they, or either of them, are pofited in
the third houfe, the brethren, neighbours, and kindred, are of a malicious
difpofition. And, if it happens that Saturn or Mars be peregrine, re­
trograde, or combuft, the malice and mifehief they threaten will be the
more dangerous. When Saturn or the Dragon’s Head are in the third,
the neighbours are obftinate, and the kindred covetous and fparing. If
Mars, the kindred are treacherous, and the neighbours difhoneft. And
this is more certain, when they are out of their eflential dignities.
O f theCondition and EJiateo f an abfent B roth er ?
To refolve this quertion, confider the lord of the third houfe, for that
hath rtgnification of brethren ; and the houfe where he is pofited, becaufe
that fliews the ftate and condition of the quefited. For if the lord of the
third be in conjundtion, quartile, or oppoiition, of the infortunes, or in
evil afpedt of the lords of theobfeure houfes, the condition of the brother
is forrowful; but if on the contrary he be in good afpedt with the for­
tunes, and in propitious places of the figure, his condition is good and
profperous. If the lord of the third be polited in the fourth, in no evil
afpect of the malcvolents, the brother that is abfent hath an intention
to enrich himfclf in the place where he is; for the fourth houfe is the
lecond from the third. If the lord of the third be pofited in the fifth,
in conjuu&ion with the lord of the fifth, with or without the reception
of the fortunes, it fhews the abfent brother to be in health and very happi­
ly fituated. But if the lord of the thirdhoufe be in the fifth, void of courfe,
or
Digitized by Got ale Original from
MCMJ v n Q V Dl ID I I f ' I ID
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
3 0 2
or in. corporal conjunction, or malicious afpeCt of the infortunes, and
this without reception, and the unfortunate planets themfelves im­
peded, it declares the abfent brother in a bad condition, indifpofed in
health, and not contented in the place where he is. But if he be found
in any of the obfeure parts of the figure, which are naturally evil, as the
fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, the abfent brother is not well, nor in
a profperous fituation. Wh£n the lord of the third is found in the eighth,
either in conjunction, fextile, or trine, of one of the fortunes, the abfent
brother is not well; or if the lord of the third be joined to evil planets
in the fixth houfe, or in conjunction with the lord of the fixth, he is
then in an infirm and fickly condition; and if the lord of the fixth be in
the third, except the lord of the third he well difpofed, it denotes the
fame. Then note whether the lord of the third be in conjunction with
the lord of the eighth, or in combuftion ; for fuch a configuration de­
clares he will die of the infirmity. But, if the lord of the third be in the
feventh, the brother is in the fame country he went into at firft, and con­
tinues there; and his condition is neither well nor ill. If the fignificator
be in the eighth, the abfent brother is in danger of death, particularly
if he be combuft, or in conjunction with the lord of the eighth, in con­
junction or afpeCt of the infortunes; for thefe are ftrong arguments of
death. When the lord of the third is in the ninth, it denotes that the
abfent brother is removed from the place he firft went to, and is gone
into a more remote country. And if he be in the tenth, in conjunction
or good afpeCl of the fortunate planets, and with reception, it denotes
him to have acquired fome honour, office, or preferment, in the place
where he lives. But, if he be in conjunction, quartile, or oppofition,
of the infortunes, combuft, or any other way infortunated, it is to be
feared the abfent brother is dead. If the lord of the third be in the
eleventh houfe, in conjunction, fextile, or trine, of the fortunes, or in
conjunction with the lord of the eleventh, it denotes the abfent brother
to be at the houfe or place of fome friend, where he is happy and well);
but, if he be malicioufiy beheld of the unfortunate planets, he is not
pleafed with the fituation he is in, but is grieved and perplexed. The
fignificator of the abfent party, in the twelfth houfe, in conjunction or
good afpeCt of the fortunes with reception, and the fortunes themfelves
no way impeded, thews he will deal in merchandize, and gain riches;
but, if he be infortunated in the twelfth honfe, either by the bad afpeCts
of the malevolents, or by the lord of the eighth, or in combuftion, it
thews the abfent brother to be difeontented, troubled, and perplexed, and
not likely to fee the land of his nativity again.
S h a l l
Digitized by Google O
riginal from
M C I A / Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 303
S h all the Q uerent's inland "Journeys be p r o f p e rous ?
Perfons who travel much in the country where they live, and have not
their nativities to direct them, may have occafion to enquire the event of
fome intended journey; for we know thofe that travel much do not al­
ways travel fafe ; but fometimes are in danger either of thieves, ficknefs,
or accidents, upon their journeys, that may occafion them to repent the un­
dertaking of them. Now, for the prevention of fuch accidents, and to en­
able the reader to refolve queftions of this nature, let the following rules
be obferved :— Give the afcendant and his lord, and the Moon, to the
querent; the third houfe and lord thereof tofignify the journey; and if the
fignificators be fwift in motion, or in the eflential dignities of each other,
or in conjunction, fextile, or trine, to each other, in good places of the
figure, the journey will be good and profperous. Or if the Moon be
in the third, in fextile to the afcendant, or the lord of the third caft a
fextile or trine to the afcendant, or be in the fame; and the lord of the
afcendant well dignified in the third; they alfo denote a fafe and plea-
fant journey. If the lord of the afcendant or Moon apply to any planet
in the third houfe, or the lord of the third to a planet in the afcen­
dant, it likewife denotes the journey enquired after to be pleafant. Or,
if Jupiter or Venus be in the third houfe, it {hews a profitable and de­
lightful journey; particularly if they caft a fextile to the afcendant. The
Dragon’$K n4>in. the third houfe {hews the fame. When Saturn, Mars,
or the Dragon^Hsa4 , are pofited in the third houfe, or affliCt the lord
thereof, or the Moon, it portends an unlucky journey to the querent, and
very ill fuccefs therein. Saturn {hews the querent to be melancholy and
penfive in his journey; Mars and the Dragon’s Head Ihew him to be in
danger of thieves and robbers; and, if they are in human figns, or fiery,
it denotes him to be lamed or wounded in his journey. When the lord
of the afcendant is retrograde, the querent will return again before he
hath gone to the place he intended ; and, if the fignificators be flow, he
makes but little hafte or fpeed in his journey. If the lord of the fixth
affliCl the fignificators, the querent will fall fick by the way; if the lord
of the twelfth, he will be impeded by malicious people; and, if the lord
of the eighth be the afflicting planet, it {hews danger of death; particu­
larly if the fignificators are near violent fixed ftars.
R eports and R
u
m
o
u
r
s, w hether tru e orfa lfe ?
This queftion may be anfwered thus .*
— Obferve the lord of the afcen­
dant and the Moon, and the difpofitor of the Moon, and fee if either of
them be in an angle or fuccedent houfe in a fixed fign, or in good afpeCt
with Jupiter, the Sun, or Venus; for ufually, upon fuch configurations.
No. 15. 4 C the
Original from
v n o k ' D i i m 1r 1 i p r a r v
Digitized by Google
3©4 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
the reports and rumours are true. But if the lord of the afcendant or
the Moon be afflidled of Saturn or Mars, or cadent from an angle, al­
though they be ftrong in the fign where they are, yet the rumour is falfe.
Rumours are alfo true and good when the angles of the figure are fixed
figns, and the Moon and Mercury in fixed figns, feparating from the in­
fortunes; and applying to a fortune pofited in any of the angles of the
figure. So alfo when the angles of the tenth and fourth houfes are fixed,
and the Moon ftiall be received in either of them, although the rumours
and reports be of an evil nature, yet they will hold true. If thefortu- A
nate planets Jupiter and Venus fhall be in the afcendant, and the Moon^
at the fame time unfortunate, let the rumours or reports be ever fo mif-
chievous and unlucky, they will be fure to prove falfe, and come to no­
thing. Mercury being retrograde or otherways afflidled, declares ill ru­
mours to be falfe; the like doth the affli&ion of that planet to whom
Mercury or the Moon applies. If the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
fhall be under the Sun beams, the truth of the rumour is kept fecret by
men in power, and few fhall know the truth thereof. If the Moon be
void of courfc, or in quartilc or oppofition of Mercury, and neither of
them caft their fextile or trine afpedls to the afcendant, the news or ru­
mour is vain and falfe, and may be fafely contradicted.
T h e A d v ic e o f a F rien d, w h eth er good or had f
It fometimes happens that neighbours or friends, in fundry-difEcult or
embarrafTed circumstances, will advife and perfuade a perfon what he had
belt to do in fuch a cafe; and, if it be required to know whether they in­
tend faithfully, or perfidioufiy, by fuch advice, eredt your figure to the
moment of time they firfl drop their counfel, and judge as follows:—Be­
hold the mid-heaven, that being the houfe fignifying advice, and fee if
there be any fortunate ftar or planet pofited therein; for then the counfel
or advice is ferious and good, and will be proper to follow. But, if an
infortune be found in the tenth houfe, the friends that pretend counfel
a& deceitfully, and intend knavifhly.
JU D G M EN TS proper to the FO U R T H HOUSE.
The fourth houfe gives judgment on poffefilons, inheritances, lands, or
houfes; and of things loll and mifiaid; of the father, &c. and hath thefe
queftions proper to it, viz.
1. S h all the Q uerent p u rchafe th e Houfe or L a n d defired ?
2 . O f the Q uality thereof, and Jhall the Q uerent do w e ll to take it ?
3. I f it be befif o r one to rem ove, or abide w here be is ?
4. O f hidden Treafure, i f attainable ?
5. It
O
riginal from
M C \ M v n D V D I ID I I r I I D D A D V
b>Cj O o q Ic
3°5
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
I tthere f reafure hidden in the Place fuppofed ?
6. Shall the Q uerent enjoy the EJlate o f his F a th er f
Thefe queftions, being once refolved, will lead theartift to the under­
standing of any thing of che like nature.
S h all the Q uerent p u r chafe the Houfe or L a n d defired ?
To refolve this qucftion, give the afcendant and his lord, and the Moon,
to fignify him that enquires; the fign of the fourth houfe and lord
thereof to fignify the thing quefited. If the lord of the afcendant, or the
Moon, be in the fourth houfe, or the lord of the fourth in the firft, or if
either of them are in conjunction with the lord of the fourth, or in fextile
or trine to him with reception, it declares the accomplishment of the
thing without impediment or hindrance. But if they are joined without
reception, or in quartile or oppofition with perfect reception, the que­
rent may poffibly obtain his defire. Or if the fignificators be not joined
together, either by body or afpeCt, yet, if there be a tranllation of light
between them, either by the Moon or another planet, it fhews a pof-
Jibility of the purchafe, though with much difficulty and trouble.
The following is alfo a good method to judge of this q u e f t i o n Gi v e
the fign afeending, and the lord thereof, and the planet from whom the
Moon is Separated, to the querent or purchafer; the Seventh houfe and
his lord, the planet or planets pofited therein, and the Moon, to fignify
the thing to be bought or purchaSed; and the mid-heaven to fignify the
price thereof. And if in your figure the lord of the afcendant behold the
lord of the Seventh, and the lord of the Seventh apply to the lord of the
afcendant, the feller hath a great defire, to deal with the buyer; and if they
chance to be in each other’s dignities, or any good tranllation of light hap­
pen between them, or if they apply to corporal conjunction, the que­
rent will agree with the feller without much difficulty or trouble.
But, if the application or tranllation of light be by quartile or oppofition,
the buyer and feller will at laft agree; but it will be with much labour
and lofs of time, and after many probabilities of breaking off. If the
lord-of the afcendant, or the Moon, apply to the lord of the fourth; or if
the lord of the fourth, or the Moon, apply to the lord of the afcendant;
or if the lord of the fourth alone Shall apply to the lord of the afcen­
dant, and there be a reception between them; or if the lord of the afcen­
dant, or the Moon, be in the fourth, or lord of the fourth in the afcen­
dant; they denote the party enquiring Shall buy or purchafe the land or
inheritance enquired after. But, if neither of thefe happen, yet, if the
Moon Shall transfer the light of one fignificator to the other, it denotes
that
O
riginal from
M P \ M V n D V ' Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
Digitized by Go*,'gle
uM
j
ii
i
d
i
M
,
v
j
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
i
ill
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
i
d
li
iili
u
b
L
.
u
i
y
/
c
n
.
«
_
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
w
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
t
;
that the thing will be perfected by the mediation of friends, or by meflen-
gers. But, if there be no application, reception, or tranflation of light,
between them, then it is improbable that any thing ihall be concluded
between them.
O f theQ uality o f the P u r chafe, an d w hether the Q uerent does w ell to take it ?
Take the fourth houfe to refolve this interrogatory; and if the two
unfortunate planets are poGted therein, either potent or peregrine, the
thing enquired after will be wafted by the buyer; and at prel'ent is in no
very good condition. If the lord of the fourth be infortunated, either
by retrogradation, detriment, fall, or peregrination, it denotes the houfe
or land to be bad, or fo encumbered that it will never continue long
with the purchafer. But, if the fortunate planets or the Dragon’s
*Tailbe
in the fourth houfe, itihews the bufinefs enquired after to be good; and
the buyer or purchafer fhall be a gainer thereby. When the fortunate
•planets caft their benevolent rays unto the fourth houfe, and the lord of
the fourth (hall be pofited in a good houfe, in fextile or trine to the fe-
cond houfe or its lord, it is an argument that the bargain is good, and
the purchafer (hall be a gainer thereby. If Aries, Leo, or Sagittarius, be
upon the culp of the fourth houfe, it denotes an eftate to be hilly, hard, and
dry. If Taurus, Virgo, or Capricorn, the land is level, and very good.
If Gemini, Libra, or Aquaries, the ground is fome part high and fomc
low ; and is in quality neither very good nor very bad. If Cancer, Scor­
pio, or Pifces, it abounds with much water. An unfortunate planet in
the fourth, retrograde, (hews the land or houfe will turn out very un­
lucky, and not be worth the taking, and will be accompanied with many
infelicities; but if a fortunate planet be pofited there ftrong, the land is
good, and may well invite the querent to go on, for he will have a good
bargain.
I f bejlf o r a Perfon to r
e
m
o
v
e,or abide w here be is?
In this queftion give the afcendant and the lord thereof to fignify
the querent; the feventh houfe and lord thereof, to fignify the place
to which he would go ; the fourth houfe and his lord,j£the fubftanea ef'
4b» qusrent; and the tenth houfe and his lord, the profit of removal.
The lord of the afcendant or fourth in the feventh, and the lord of the
afcendant and feventh, fortunate planets, fwift in motion, ftrong, and po­
tent where they are, the querent then will do well to remain where he is,
and not remove. But if the lord of the feventh be with a good planet,
and the lord of the afcendant or fourth with an evil one, the querent had
better remove, for he will get little by continuing where he is. Fortu-
2 nate
4*'
Digitized by Google Original from
M P A / V r t D k ' D I I D I Ir I I D D / I n u
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 307
nate planets in the afcendant or fourth may invite the querent to remain
where he is. If the lords of thofe houfes are in conjunction or in good
afpedt with fortunate ftars, it denotes the fame. Unfortunate planets
in the afcendant or fourth fhew the querent it is good to remove; and
if the lords of the afcendant and fourth be afflicted by the malefics,
either by body or afpett, it denotes the fame. Obferve the afflicting
planet or planets, and the houfe or houfes they govern, for from thence
the occafion of the mifchief that the querent fuftains is known; the
like obferve of the affifting or friendly planets, whence a rational anfwer
to the queftion propofed will be eafily obtained.
O f Treafures hid,whether attainable or not?
It is not uncommon for penurious perfons to hide treafure in their
life-time, and go out of the world without informing their heirs or
executors where to find it. Whenever this is fufpeded to be the cafe,
and a queftion is grounded upon it, ere6l your figure, and confider what
application, reception, tranflation, 6cc. there may be between the lords
of the afcendant and fourth houfe. If there be a friendly application
and reception, the perfon enquiring fhall obtain the treafure he enquires
after; but, if there be a quartile or oppofition between the fignificators,
without the reception, the treafure will rarely be found. When
the fignificators apply to each other corporally in a fixed fign, there are
great hopes of finding and obtaining the fame fpeedily; particularly
if the application be in a good houfe. Both or either of the luminaries in
the afcendant no way unfortunate, or friendly beholding the fame,
argues a fpeedy recovery of the treafure h id ; but, if they fhould
happen to be cadent, or in quartile or oppofition thereto, it gives
but fmall hopes. If the part of fortune be in the afcendant, beheld
by fortunate planets, or by the luminaries, the querent will have a
fairprofpeCt of acquiring his wiflies; but, if the part of fortune and
the luminaries be cadent, particularly the Moon; and neither of the
lights caft a friendly afpeCt to the part of fortune, or to the afcendant;
nor the lord of the afcendant beholding the afcendant; it is an argument
that the querent will not obtain the treafure hid. I always find, in quef-
tions of this nature, when fortunate planets are in the fourth, or
govern the fourth, that there is treafure; and, if the lord of the al-
cendant, or the Moon, be in good afpedt with thofe planets, the que­
rent generally attains it by diligent fearch. But, on the contrary,
if intortupes be in the fourth houfe, or the luminaries weak therein, it
16 an argument of irrecovery; •or ftiews that it has been taken away be­
fore.
No. 1 $. 4 D Is
Digitized by Google Original from
M P / d Dl I P I I r I I P B A P V
a
ifin
n
fi-n
r
l-w
-a
Q
n
C
Q
a
'^
P
/f
i
ifv
iQ
n
n
il
h
p
i
r
AAM
AA//:rlni
i
/
n
p
»
7
n
if
S
in
-a
ifin
n
o
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
Is theTreafure hidden in the Place
A queftion being thus, in a general way propounded, give the lord of
the afeendant and the Moon to the querent for his fignificators; and
the fourth houfe, and the planet or planets pofited therein, will lignify
the treafure enquired after. When Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's
Head, are in the fourth houfe, they declare the treafure to be in the
place fuppofed; and, if they be in their eflential dignities, it is very
certain that there is great value there. Or if any of the other planets
are polited in their own houfes, or in the fourth houfe without impedi­
ment, it fhews that there is treafure in the place fuppofed. But if the
fourth houfe be infortunated with the Dragon’s Tail, or Saturn or Mars
be there, and no way eifentially dignified; or if Saturn or Mars caft a
quartile or oppofition thereunto; there is no treafure at all. The lord of
the fourth,or the Moon, feparating from good planets, (hew that there has
been treafure hid in the piece fuppofed, but that it is gone.
Shall the Querent enjoy the EJlate of his Father ?
This queftion is oftentimes of great importance to the proponent, and
therefore ought to be contemplated with more than ufual acutenefs. If
in the figure, judicioufiy erefted, and corre6l to time, the lord of the fe-
cond and lord of the fifth are found in the mutual dignities of each
other; or the lord of the fecond in the fifth, or the lord of the fifth in
the fecond, the querent will enjoy the eftate of his father. But if the
lord of the fifth houfe be retrograde, or affli&ed by fome malevolent pla­
net, it prefages that much of the eftate which the querent’s father intend­
ed for him will be wafted, or otherways difpofed of. When the lord of
the fifth difpofes of the part of fortune in the afeendant, or fecond
houfe of the figure, there is no fear but the querent will enjoy what he
experts from his father. The lord of the afeendant, or fecond houfe,
dilpoling of the lord of the fifth, (hews the thing enquired after to befo
fecured to the querent that he cannot be deprived of it. The Moon tranf-
ferring the light of the lord of the fifth by Textile or trine, to the houfe of
the fecond, or lord of the afeendant, declares the queftion enquired af­
ter (hall come to good; or if Jupiter or Venus in.the fifth (hall friendly
behold the lord of the fecond, or a planet in the fecond, it fignifies the
fame. If the lord of the fecond and fifth apply to a good afpedt, or a cor­
poral conjun&ion by retrogradation, the querent will receive fame of
his father’s eftate very (hortly, and in his father’s life-time: but if the
lord of the fourth be in afpe<ft with an infortune, or an infortune in the
fourth, it denotes the father will not part with any thing til] his death.
JU D G -
Original from
MCIAf Vr sDI ^ Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by Goc sle
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
l
e
-
u
i
y
l
u
z
e
u
/
i
iu
_|
j
;
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
ic
il
iiil
i
u
b
L
.
u
i
y
/d
L
L
t:b
b
_
u
b
t:
-ff
-p
u
-y
u
u
y
it:
OF AS T ROL OGY. 3°9
JU D G M EN TS proper to the F IF T H HOUSE.
This houfe appertains to the birth of children, embaflies, meflengers.
&c. and hath thefe queftions proper to it.
I . Whether a WomanJhall ever have Children
2. Inwbat TimeJhallJhe conceive ?
3. Whether a Woman enquiring he with
4. WhetherJhe bepregnant with a Boy or
5. ShallJhe have Twins?
6. When willthe Birth happen?
7. O f a MeJJengerfent on an Embajfy?
And, by knowing how to refolve thefe queftions, the reader will be
able to anfwer any others belonging to this houfe.
To anfwer this queftion, carefully obferve the afcendant, its lord,
and the Moon ; and, if either of them be joined to the lord of the fifth,
the querent fhall have children. But, if neither of thefe happen, note
whether any other planet transfer the light of the lord of the afcendant
to the lord of the fifth; for that is an argument that the querent may
have children. Confider alfo whether the fign upon the fifth be fruitful,
and whether the lord of the fifth, the Moon, the afcendant, and its
lord, are in^prolific figns, for, if fo, it is an afl'ured argument that the
querent will have ilfue. If the lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, be
pofited in the fifth houfe, the querent will have children; or, if the lord
of the fifth houfe be in the afcendant, it declares the fame. If neither
the lord of the afcendant, nor the Moon, apply to the lord of the fifth,
yet, if there be a tranllation of light and virtue between them, the que­
rent need not doubt of having children. But if all the fignificators be
in fterile figns, and in defc&ive degrees of thofe figns, the querent will
rarely have 1
flue. So alfo, if Venus, the general fi^nificatrix of children
or ilfue, be affli&ed, either by the prelence of Saturn, Mars, or the
Dragon’s Tail, or combuft of the Sun, the querent will not have chil­
dren. Saturn or the Dragon’s Tail in the filth, or afRitling the lord of
the fifth, generally denies ilfue; and if Saturn or Mars be in quartile or
oppofition to the fifth houfe, or its lord, it portends the fame. .Laftly,
confider the planets Jupiter and Venus; and, if you find either of them
in the fifth, third, ninth, or eleventh, houfes, free from all impedi­
ment, the querent will certainly have children.
Whether a WomanJhall ever have Children ?
In
Digitized by Go*,’
file Original from
M C \ / U v n R k ' Dl I P I I r I I R R A R V
u
u
i
i
i
d
m
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
/
'
e
u
/
i
ili
_|
j
;
/
/
w
w
v
v
.
m
c
i
u
n
u
u
s
l
.
u
i
y
/c
iL
t
.e
b
b
_
u
it
:
-
«
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
it
;
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
In •what‘
TimeJhall the Woman conceive ?
Having before found a portability of iflue, it may be artced when the
time fkall be; to anfwer which, obferve in what fign the lord of the
fifth Houle is pofited, and what planet or planets are in configuration .
with him; for, if he be in the afcendant, fifth or eleventh houfes, in
fruitful figns, and with fruitful planets, the querent may fpeedily con­
ceive. If the lord of the fifth be in the firll houfe, the querent may
conceive, in the firfi year; if in the fecond, the fecond year; if in the
tenth, the third year; if in the feventh, the fourth year; if in the
fourth houle, the fifth year; and fo on. Or, having noted the capacity
and condition of the* querent for conception, obferve the diflance be­
tween the friendly alpedts of the Moon, or lord of the afcendant, with
the lord of the fifth, and Jupiter or Venus, and judge of the time thus:
If they are in moveable figns, theh degrees of diflance fhew weeks or
•days; in common figns, months or weeks; in fixed figns, years or
months, &c. as before directed in queftions that relate to time.
I f a Woman enquiring be 'with
It fometimes happens that a woman has reafon to believe fhe is with
child; and yet, owing to fome internal complaint, may be in doubt
about it, and by that means be led to afk the queflion, whether lhe be
or not? The queflion is found by thefe rules : If the lord of the afcen­
dant, or the Moon, behold the lord of the fifth with any good afpedt or
tranflation; or they, or either of them,* happen to be pofited in the fifth
houfe; the woman enquiring is with child. And, when the fignifica-
tors apply friendly, or are pofited in fruitful figns, and in fruitful houfes
alfo, a's the fifth, eleventh, and feventh, the party enquiring is with
child. The lord of the afcendant, or lord of the fifth, afpedting a pla­
net with reception in an angle, and the Moon in reception with a planet
elfentially fortified in an angle, alfo fhews the querent to be pregnant,
Jupiter, the natural fignificator of children, in the afcendant, fifth, fe­
venth, or eleventh, houfes, no way afflidted of the infortunes, denotes the
querent to be with child. But if Jupiter be afflidted, or cadent, thewo-
man enquiring is not with child. If the lord of the tenth, and the Sun,
.be in good places of the figure, and in friendly configuration with the
benefics, the woman enquiring is with child. Likewife, if the Moon,
and the.lord of the triplicity fhe is in, be well located in ligns of many
children, as Cancer, Scorpio or Pifces, the woman has conceived.
So alfo, if Jupiter and Venus be pofited in angles, free from the ma­
licious beams of the infortunes, the woman is certainly with child. But,
if the fignificators are afflidted of Saturn, Mars, or the Dfagon's Tail,
the
Digitized by Google Original from
mpia/ d i i d 1 i r 1 I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 311
the woman is not with child, but is troubled with fome complaint
which fhe hath miftaken for conception. The pofitions of Saturn,
Mars, or the Dragon’s Tail, in the fifth, likewife fhew non-conception;
but, if it happens that the teftimonies for her being with child are the
gre ater in number, they then threaten abortion; and the fame when they
afflicl either Venus, the Moon, or the lord of the fifth houfe, or the
afeendant.
W
hethertheW
om
anbepregnant withaBoyorGirl?
To anfwer this queftion, obferve the afeendant, and its lord, the fifth
houfe and the lord thereof, together with the Moon, and planet to which
Ihe applies; for, if they, or moftjfthem, be in the mafeuline figns, the
querent is with child of a boy; but, if in feminine figns, it is a girl.
The faid fignificators, though in feminine figns, yet if they are in afpedl
with mafeuline planets, and in houfes mafeuline, and with ftars of a
mafeuline nature and difpofition, the woman will have a male child.
Mafeuline planets are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and the Sun; the feminine
are Venus and the M oon; Mercury is in its nature convertible, and is
either mafeuline or feminine according to the planet or planets he is in
afpedt with. Signs of a mafeuline difpofition, or nature, are Aries, Ge­
mini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and Aquaries. And feminine figns are
Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Pifces; which being
well obferved, the fex is cafily difeovered.
ShallJhehave T
w
i
n
s, orm
orethanone?
Confider the fign upon the afeendant, and where the lord thereof is
pofited, and what fign is upon the cufp of the fifth houfe; for, if the
fignificators are in bicorporal or double-bodied figns, the querent will
very probably have two children. If Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon’s
Head, be in a fruitful fign, either in the fifth or afeendant, it is potfible
for the querent to have three children ; particularly if the Moon lends
her afiiilance. But, if thefe planets are not pofited in the afeendant, or
fifth houfe; yet, if they caft their friendly rays to either of them, it is
an argument that the querent will have twins. But, if fixed figns, or
moveable, poflefs the cufps of the afeendant or fifth houfe, and the Sun
or Moon be pofited therein, it is a certain argument that the woman is
breeding with but one child.
W
h
e
n,orinwhat T
i
m
e, willtheBirthhappen?
To refolve this queftion, regard muft be had to the fignificators as well
of the child as of the perfon enquiring; and to the part of children alfo, (as
No. 16. 4 E will
Digitized by G O O g l C
Original from
m c w / D i i m i r 1 i r b a b v
Si2 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
will be explained hereafter,) which muft be diredfced by the oblique afcen-
fions, &c. to the degree of the fifth houfe or its lord, or to Jupiter, or
to his good afpedtsj and, by allowing a day to each degree of diftance, the
time of birth will be nearly found. This is difcovered by confidering
what diredion or tranfit there may be either to the fifth houfe, or to Ju­
piter, Venus, or the Moon, for at that time the woman may be delivered;
particularly if the true tranfit or diredion falls in the fifth, eleventh, or
afcendant.
Of a Mejfengerfent onanEm
baffy, oro
nanyim
p
When this queftion is propofed, give the afcendant and its lord to
him that fent the mefienger j the feventh houfe and its lord to fignify
him to whom the mefienger is fent; and let the Moon fignify the meffage
itfelf; and the lord of the fifth the mefienger, and his management or
ordering of the bufinefs. When the lord of the fifth houfe fhall feparate
from the lord of the feventh, and apply to the lord of the afcendant,
then judge the mefienger hath affeded his bufinefs, and is returning again.
And, if he feparates from the lord of the fecond, he then brings money
with him, let the fignificator of that houfe be either a fortune or infor­
tune. If the fignificator of the mefienger feparates from fortunate planets,
it is an argument he has been honeft, and will bring good tidings of the
bufinefs ; but, if he feparates from the malevolents, it {hews the mef-
fenger has done his bufinefs lamely, or has been hindered in the per­
formance of it. If the fignificator of the mefienger applies to an infor­
tune by quartile or oppofition, and this before he can feparate from the
lord of the feventh, it fignifics that the mefienger has met with fome
impediment in the bufinefs he went about from the party to whom he
was fent. But, if the fignificator of the mefienger fhall go to the quar­
tile or oppofition of either of the infortunes, after he is feparated from
the lord of the feventh ; the mefienger will receive fome prejudice or
impediment in his way home. If there be found an infortune in the
ninth, the mefienger will not travel fafe, but will be in danger of high­
way robbery, and bodily hurt; but if, on the contrary, a benefic be in
the ninth, he will travel fafe. If the lord of the afcendant and lord of
the fifth are in reception, or in good afpedl from good places of the figure.,
the mefienger is faithful, juft, and honeft; particularly if he be either a
fortune, or in good afpedt with a fortune. But, if there be no reception
or afpebt, and the configuration be with or in the dignities of an infortune,
the contrary may be expedted. If there happens a reception between
the lord of the feventh and the lord of the fifth, the mefl'enger will be
received; and, if at the fame time the lord of the fifth or Mercury
tranflates the virtue of the lord of the feventh to the lord of the afcen-
2 dant.
Original from
M P U / d i i p i i r i i d r a d v
Digitized by Got.>gle
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 313
dant, the querent obtains whatfoever he hoped for by themeflage; which
I have found true in a variety of inftances.
JU D G M EN TS proper to the SIX TH HOUSE.
The fixth houfe gives judgment on ficknefs, fervants, and fmall cattle,
&c. and the following questions are commonly attributed to i t :
1. W hatTartofthe Body is aff
2. Is the Difeafein the Body or Mind, or both ?
3. Shall the Dijlemperbe chronic or acute?
4. What is the Caujeof the Dijlemper ?
5. Shall thefickParty recover, or dieof the Difeafe ?
6. O f Servants, Jhall they provejujl, or dijhoneft ?
7* O ffm all Cattle, Jhall the Querent thrive by them or not ?
In the former part of this work, I have fhewn what difeafes are attribu­
ted to each planet, houfe, and fign; which, in refolving the firft of thefc
five queftions, fhall be particularly noticed.
What Part of the Body is afflisted?
Having eredled the figure, obferve the afcendant, the fixth houfe, and
place of the Moon, for they are natural fignificators of the difeafe; and
then judge as follows : The horofcope afflicted by the prefence of an evil
planet, or by the pofition of the Dragon’s Tail, indicates that the diflem-
per lies chiefly in the head, and in that member or part of the body re-
prefented by the fign afeending. If the Moon be afflidled by the infor­
tunes, the fitk party is indifpofed in that part of the body the afflidting
planet governs from his own houfe. If the afcendant be Scorpio, and
Mars and Venus be in the afcendant, or fixth houfe, the difeafe lies in the
head, bowels, and fecrets, becaufe Mars governs thofe members in either
place ; which rule holds good with all the other figns and planets.
Is the Difeafe in the Body or Mind, or in both ?
The afcendant and the difpofitors of the Sun and the Moon bear figni-
fication of the mind, and the lord of the afcendant and the Moon of the
body. Now, if the afcendant, its lord, the Sun, or the Moon, be af­
flidled, it fhews the diflemper hath feized the whole body and mind alfo
of the fick party. If the afcendant and the difpofitors of the Sun and
the Moon be afflidled, the difeafe impairs the mind ; but, if the lord of
the afcendant and the Moon be afflidled, the difeafe affedls only the body,
and the mind is free. If Saturn afflidl the afcendant, and the dilpofiror
Original from
V f> D V ni ID I Ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by Google
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
3 *4*
of the luminaries, and the Moon he at the fame time in quartile or oppo­
fition of him, or in quartile or oppofition of the lord ot' the afeendant,
the fick party is afH'ded in mind, concerning the things of this world,
and about Ioffes in his bufinefs or eftate. If Jupiter, by being lord of
evil houfes, afflid the aforefaid fignificators, the querent is troubled in
fnind about religious tenets. If Venus, by difappointments in love ; if
Mars, or Mercury, by a too intenfe exercife of the mind, by Study, or
by application to fcience or philofophy.
Shallthe Difeafebechronicoracute?
To know this, confider the complexion of the perfon, his age, and the
time of the year; for the knowledge of thefe conduce much to the dif-
covery of the certainty of the matter propounded. Difeafes in autumn
and winter are ufually reputed chronical or long; but longer in winter
than in autumn. In fpring and fummer, acute or Short; but more acute
in fpring than in fummer. So infirmities affli&ing young perfons, or
thofe in the firft half of their age, are Shorter and lefs dangerous than
thofe in elderly perfons, or thofe that are in the laft part of their age.
Likewife, melancholy and phlegmatic perfons arefubjed to chronical dif-
eafes; but fanguine and choleric perfons to acute. Saturnine difeafes,
which are cold and dry, are ufually long and tedious; the Moon and
Venus are protraders of the infirmity; Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, and
Mercury, fignify difeafes of no long continuance, but fuch as may re­
turn fpcedily ; but, by being lords of evil places, or otherwise afflided,
they may have Signification of chronic difeafes. The figns poffeffing the
afeendant, Sixth houfe, or place of the Moon, being fixed, declare a
chronic difeafe; common figns Shew difeafes neither very long nor very
Short; moveable figns denote the difeafe to terminate quickly, either
one way or the other. An infortune being lord of the fixth, and in the
fixth, prefages a lafting ficknefs; but, if a benefic be lord of the fixth,
and in the fixth, the difeafe will admit of an immediate cure. The lord of
the afeendant, the Moon, or lord of the fixth, in conjundion, Textile, or
trine, of the lord of the tenth, denotes the difeafe to be of no long con­
tinuance; and if they be in conjundion, Textile, or trine, of the fortunes,
the fame. But if the faid fignificators, or any of them, be in conjunc­
tion, quartile, or oppofition, of the infortunes, the difeafe will be both
long and tedious; and, if this fhall happen in fixed figns, it argues the
duration or continuance to be Still the longer.
WhatistheC
aufeoftheD
ijlem
per?
The caufe of the diftemper is known from the pofitions of the fignifica­
tors of ficknefs, before described, in either of the four trigons or triplici-
ties; for therein they Shew the humour that is predominant. If thefe
figni^cabcn^
Digitized by Google Original from
KIHA/ v r t Q\f DI ID I Ir I IP R A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
orthe moft of them are pofited in fiery figns, they declare the diftemper to
have its origin from choler, whence fevers and all fuch-like difeafes pro­
ceed. But, if the fignificators be in airy figns, blood is then predomi­
nant in the body, and the difeafe is thence cauied j as gouts, leprofies,
&c. When the fignificators of ficknefs are in earthy figns, they declare
the cauie of the difeafe to have its origin from melancholy, and thofe
difeafes are ufually long and tedious, as confumptions, agues, &c. And
the fignificators of difeafes in watery figns denote the infirmity to pro­
ceed from cold and moift caufes, as phlegm; and thefe difeafes principally
are coughs, phthyfic, and all difeafes of the ftomach. When the pofitions
of the fignificators do not thoroughly point out the nature of the diftem-
per, note the fixed ftars in the figure, and they will afiift in the difcovery
of the caufe of the difeafe.
ShalltheJick Partyrecover, ordieofthe
If the Moon deilux from the infortunes, and apply to the benevolents
without fruftration, prohibition, or refranation, there is great hopes the
infirm party will recover; fo the fignificators of ficknefs, no-way af­
flicted, but free from the ill beams of the malevolents, declare great
hopes of the recovery of the fick. If they are in fextile or trine of the
luminaries, or in any friendly reception with them, or either of them,
the fame. The Moon, encreafing in light and motion, and being pofited
in good houfes of heaven, in fextile or trine of the lord of the afcendant,
denotes great hopes of life; if the lord of the afcendant be an infortune
in this judgment, it will no-way affeCt the fick party. When the Moon
{hall either be found in the afcendant, or in any of her dignities, or fhall
caft a fextile or trine thereunto, it is a great argument the fick will not
die of the difeafe afflicting. The lord of the afcendant and the Moon
combuft of the Sun denote death, unlefs there be fome reception between
the Sun and them; and, if they (hall be in conjunction with the lord of
the eighth, except Jupiter or Venus interpofe their friendly beams, it
{hews the fame. The lord of the eighth in an angle, and the Moon and
lord of the afcendant cadent, or afflicted of the infortunes, prefage mor­
tality ; the application of the lord of the afcendant or the Moon unto
the lord of the eighth by evil afpeCt, fhews the fame; and, if he be an
infortune, it puts the matter pall all doubt. The lord of the afcendant
in the eighth, or lord of the eighth in the afcendant, declares the irre-
covery of the fick. If the lord of the eighth be in the tenth, and the
lord of the afcendant in the fourth, fixth, or feventh, houfes, any-way
afflicted, it portends death to the fick party. The lord of the afcendant
and Moon with violent fixed ftars, according to their latitude, generally
denote death unto the fick.
No. 16. 4 P ° f
Digitized by Goc gle Original from
M V r i D t ' Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
s
if
in
n
f
i
-
n
r
l
^
-
^
c
n
c
c
^
p
m
p
/f)
i
m
c
n
n
n
h
p
i
\-
a
a
a
a
a
a
//t
It
ti
i
/
n
^
7
m
R
i
n
-
s
i
P
i
n
n
n
'i
iip
i
i
i
o
n
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
O f Servants, Jhall they prove jujl, or dijhonejl ?
When this queftion is put by the mafter, give the lord of the afcendant
and the afcendant itfelf to fignify the querent; the fixth houfe and its
lord to fignify the fervant. And, if the lord of the fixth commit his
difpofition by any friendly ray to the lord of the afcendant, the fervant
will prove juft and honeft. If the Moon transfer the light of the lord of
the fixth to the lord of the afcendant, by a good afpedt, it fpeaks the ho-
nelly of the fervant. The lord of the fixth in the dignities of the for­
tunes in fextile or trine to the afcendant, pleads for the honefty of the
fervant. If he be near fixed ftars of a benevolent nature, the fame. But,
if the lord of the fixth fliall be in conjunction of the infortunes, and in
quartile or oppofition to the afcendant or lord thereof, the fervant will
not prove honeft. The Moon in the fixth, in quartile to the lord of the
fixth in the fecond, fliews the fervant to be a pilferer, and fuch a one as
the querenf will never grow rich by. If the principal fignificators are
void of all reception, and there be neither good application or tranflation
of light to be found among them, the fervant is not to be trufted. When
Mercury, the natural fignificator of fervants, fliall be in the dignities of
Saturn or Mars, and in quartile or oppofition to the afcendant or fecond
houfe, or either of their lords, it gives great caufe to fufpedt the fervant.
If the Dragon's Tail be in the fixth, or doth afflidt the lord of the fixth,
it denotes the fame.
Offmall C
a
t
t
l
e
, fa ll the Querent thrive by them or not ?
By fmall cattle are meant hogs, fheep, and the like.—If the lord of
the fixth and the lord of the fecond are in conjunction, in a good houfe
of heaven, the querent may thrive by them ; or, if they be in fextile or
trine, the fame. The lord of the fixth cafting a friendly afpedt to the
Part of Fortune, or being in good configuration with the difpofitor there­
of, denotes much good to the querent by dealing in fmall cattle. The
lord of the fixth in the fecond, in the dignities of Jupiter or Venus,
and Jupiter or Venus cafting a fextile or trine to the fecond, or to the fe­
cond in conjunction with him, argues great gain to the querent by deal­
ing in fmall cattle. But if, on the contrary, the lord of the fixth be un­
fortunate, and in evil afpedt with the lord of the afcendant or fecond, or
caft malignant rays to either of their cufps, the querent will lofe by deal­
ing in fmall cattle. If the lord of the fixth be in quartile or oppofi­
tion to the difpofitor of the Part of Fortune, or the Moon, the querent
cannot thrive by dealing in fmall cattle. The fame if the lord of the fixth
be afflidted either by Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon’s T ail; or be found either
retrograde, combuft, cadent, or peregrine. The Dragon’s Tail and Mars
fhew
Digitized by Google Original from
m c i a / d i m i 1r 1 i b d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 317
(hew much lofs therein by knaves and thieves, and ill bargains, &c. and
Saturn denotes much damage by the rot or murrain.
IN TER RO G A TO R IES proper to the SEV EN TH HOUSE.
This houfe refolves queftions concerning marriage, partnerlhip, law-
fuits, public enemies, war, &c. thefts, fugitives, and ftrays; which, be-
caufe they are of feveral diftinfl natures, are treated of under three diffe­
rent heads ; and firft, of marriage.
1. Shall the Sluerent marry t
2. A t what Time Jhallthe Querent marry ?
3. Shall the Querent marry more than once ?
4. What Manner of Perfon Jhall the Querent marry ?
5. Shall they accord after Marriage
6. Shall the Marriage be confummated or broken off?
Shall the Querent marry
^ CL
To know this, confider the pofition of the lord of the afeendant^ the
Moon, and Venus, and the pwt -ef m«riager>aod their-pofition6
-» for they
all have fignification of the party enquiring in this cafe. If all or the
greater part of them be in prolific or fruitful figns, it is a great argument
that the p.irty enquiring will marry. If the Moon or lord of the afeen­
dant be in good afpedl with the Sun, or either of the fortunes, or near
fixed ftars of their natures, the party enquiring may marry. When the
lord of the afeendant, the Moon, or Venus, are in the feventh houfe, or
in the dignities of the lord of the feventh, and the lord of the feventh
either in the afeendant, or in fextile or trine to the faid fignificators, the
querent will certainly marry. If none of thefe arguments appear, but
on the contrary all the fignificators of marriage are in Aerile- figns, and
in quartile or oppofition to the lord of the feventh, or feventh houfe, the
party enquiring is averfe to marriage.
A t what TimeJhall the Querent marry ?
The fignificators of marriage applying to each other by a friendly afpeft,
or by conjunction in the oriental or meridional parts of heaven, denote
the querent will be married fuddenly j but, if in the occidental part of
heaven, or feptentrional, it will be much prolonged, and a great while
before accomplifhed. All the fignificators above the earth, and fwift in
motion, accelerate or haften the matter, particularly if in moveable figns;
but, if they are under the earth, and flow in motion, the marriage will
be retarded. The degrees of diftance, either in body or afpeCt, between the
3 lord
Original from
fclEUkf V n DI ID I Ir I I D D A D V
lord q£ tbe afcendant and the lord of the feventh, the Sun, or Venus,
fhew the time of marriage, if there happen a good tranfit to bring on
the bufinefis. In this judgment, moveable figns give weeks or days; bi-
corporal give months or weeks.; and fixed figns jrears or months : and,
if the fignificators are flow in motion, and in fixed figns, the degrees of
diftance will be fo many years; if fwift in motion, then fo many months;
fc decateris.
ShalltheQ
uerentm
arrym
orethanonce?
The fignificators of marriage in bi-corporal or double-bodied figns de­
clare the querent, be it either man or woman, to marry more than once.
The fignificators of marriage in conjunction, fextile, or trine, with many
planets, portend marriage to the querent more than once; particularly
from the fifth, feventh, or eleventh, houfes. Many planets in the feventh
houfe, in fextile or trine to the luminaries or lord of the afcendant, denote
the querent will be married more than once. But, if the fignificators of
marriage are in fixed figns, and in afpedt with not above one planet, it
prefages that the querent will marry only once.
What KindofPerfonJhalltbeQ
uerent , andhowqualified?
Obferve what planet the lord of the afcendant, or Moon, is neareft in
afpedt with, and the fign he is in, and defcribe the perfon, either man
or woman, accordingly; for fuch a one the querent will marry. If the
lord of the afcendant or Moon be in conjunction or afpedt with Venus,
the perfon is pleafant and affable; if with the Sun, he is noble, of a
great fpirit, and imperious; if with Mars, the perfon is many times rafh
and furious, and fubjedt to choler and paffion ; if with Saturn, he is in­
clinable to melancholy, but prudent and grave; if with Jupiter, the
perfon is juft, honeft, and religious; if with Venus, fubtil, cunning,
&c. Note the fixed ftars that are near the fignificators, for they often
alter the quality of the planets. By thus confidering the dignities and
debilities of the planet or planets aforefaid, the fhape, qualification, and
temperature, of the perfon whom the querent fhall marry, may be known
and difeovered.
ShalltheyaccordandbehappyafterM
arriage?
The lord of the afcendant, or Moon, in conjundtion, fextile, or trine,
of the lord of the feventh or Venus, argues much pleafure and delight
after marriage, and fhews the parties fhall agree well, and not quarrel;
but, if they are in quartile or oppofition unto each other, it fhews much
quarrelling
Digitized by Go< gle O
rigirw
al from
M C1AJ W
r
\Q
VDl ID I i r I I B B A B V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 319
quarrelling and contention after marriage; and, if they be in quartile,
conjun&ion, oroppofition, of the infortunes, in any places of the figure,
it thews the fame. Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon’s Tail, in the afcendant,
fhews the querent to be imperious after marriage, and by his or her
obftinacy will occafion much difcontent and trouble. But, if they are
pofited in the feventh houfe, the perfon whom the querent marries Will
be the occafion of the trouble and difcontent. Benevolent planets poffeff-
ing the feventh houfe, and a friendly reception between the lord of the
feventh and lord of the afcendant, denote good agreement after marriage.
If there happens to be a reception, through they are in quartile, it im­
plies the fame.
Shall the Marriage be effected, or broken off?
The perfon, who enquires concerning the concluding or breaking off
an intended marriage, muff have the lord of the afcendant and moon for
fignificators; and the perfon quefited muft have the lord of the feventh
and the planet from which the Moon is fep3rated. If the lord of the af­
cendant or Moon be joined to the lord of the feventh, or in fextile or
trine to him, in any of his effential dignities, the marriage intended will
be brought to perfedion, particularly if it be from good houfes of the
figure. If a quartile or oppofition happens between the fignificators,
and no reception, the intended marriage will be broken off, and come to
nothing. When there is no afped between the fignificators, yet, if there
be any good tranflation of light between them, and this by a benevolent
planet, the marriage may be effected by a perfon reprefented by the houfe*
that planet is lord or governor of. So alfo, if the fignificator of both
parties apply to a friendly afped, and, before the afped be made, an in­
fortune interpofes his malicious rays, the marriage will be obftruded by
a perfon fignified by the houfe the interpofing planet is lord of. If the
interpofing planet be lord of the third, a kinfman of the querent’s, or a
neighbour or brother, fhall break off the bufinefs if he be lord of the
tenth or fourth houfes, the father or mother of the querent will obftrud
the marriage intended $ and lb of the other houfes.
Of Partnership, Law-Suits, W ar, &c.
The extent of this part will be better underftood by being digefted
into the following particulars:
1. Shall two Partners agree and befucin their Partnerjh
2. Shall the Querent, or his Adverjary,
3. Shall a Perfon returnfafe from War ?
4. Shall the City, C
a
j
l
l
e, orJlrong Hold, bef.eged, be taken ?
No. 16. 4 G Shaii
Digitized by Goi gle Original from
MCWk/ V f l Ok" Dl ID I Ir I ID D A D V
l
-'
u
i
i
id111,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
l
u
z
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
id
u
n
u
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/d
t
.t
.e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
f
f
-
|j
u
-
y
u
u
y
ic
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
Shall twoPartners agree and befuccefsful in their Partnerjhip ?
The lord of the afcendant and feventh, being friends according to na­
ture, and in reception or good afpe<ft with each other, declare the part­
ners (hall agree in their partnerlhip, and gain confiderably by their un­
dertaking. If they are enemies by nature, and void of good rays toward
one another, and in no reception, it is an argument that they will never
agree, but will be perpetually jangling, and injuring each other. If the
lord of the afcendant be a more weighty planet than the lord of the
feventh, and better dignified, it (hews the querent will thrive beft in the
partnerfhip j but, if the lord of the feventh be moft ponderous, the
quefited gains moft. Mars or Mercury lord of the fecond, afflifting the
lord of the eighth, (hews the querent will cheat his partner; but, if
either of them be lord of the eighth, and afflift the lord of the fecond,
the partner will cheat the querent. He, whofe fignificators are ftrongeft
and in good places of the heavens, will thrive beft in the partnerlhipj but
he, whofe fignificators are weak and in evil places of the figure, will be
injured by the partnerlhip.
Shall the Querent, or his Adverfary,overcome in a L
1 *xt Ay
If the lord of the afcendant be more^petent than the lord of the fe­
venth, or the afcendant better fortified than the feventh houfe, either by
the good afpeCts or the prefence of the fortunate planets, there is great
probability the querent will be fuccefsful in the fuit at law, and overcome
his adverfary. But, if the lord of the feventh be more powerful in digni­
ties than the lord of the afcendant, and the feventh houfe better guarded
by the prefence or rays of the fortunate ftars than the afcendant, the ad­
verfary will overcome. If the lords of the afcendant and feventh be af­
flicted by the infortunes, neither party will fucceed, but both will be
injured, if they go on with the fuit. If they (hould both be affifted by
the fortunate, planets, poflibly fome friend will make up the breach be­
tween them. Both fignificators in their eflential dignities, and in angles,
fhew both perfons to be too high to hearken to a reconciliation. If they
apply friendly to each other, the matter will be taken up among them-
lelves; and he, whofe figniftcator doth apply, will be the firft to make
overtures of friendftiip and peace.
Shall a Perfon returnfafe from a Cruize or Campaign ?
The lord of the afcendant ftrong and potent, free from the evil beams
of the infortunes, is an argument of great fecurity to the que^nt, and
that he (hall return fafe from a cruize or campaign. If he be pofited with
a good planet, in a propitious houfe, it (hews the fame. If the lord of
the
Digitized by G O f
Original from
m c i a j vnmc di i p i 1r 1 i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 321
the afcendant be combuft or cadent, or in his peregrination, or if Mars
be weak in the figure of the queftion, the querent will gain no honour
or reputation in the war. If the lord of the afcendant be in afpeft with
a good planet, and at the fame time the lord of the feventh be with an
evil one, he may return home again ; but he will fuffer great prejudice
before his return. Saturn being in the firft, or with the lord of the firft,
prefages much lofs and damage to the querent by war. If Mars fhall be
with the lord of the firft, either by conjunction, quartile, or oppofition,
and weak, and Saturn locally in the afcendant, the querent will be wound­
ed. But, if Mars or the Dragon’s Tail fhould ill-dignify the afcendant,
the querent will be mortally wounded; and, if the lord of the afcendant
and the Moon fuffer affliction at the fame time, he will be killed on
the fpot.
Shall the City, Town, Cajlle, orfir ong Hold, be taken
The afcendant and lord thereof reprefent the befiegers, and the fourth
houfe the befieged; the lord of the fourth, the governor; the fifth and
its lord, the ammunition, foldiery, and the afliftance they either have
or may expeCt. If the lord of the afcendant be ftrong and fortunate,
and joined to the lord of the fourth in the afcendant, or with the Moorr
or lord of the tenth houfe, in reception ; it is an argument that the
befiegers fhall prove victorious. Or, if the lord of the fourth be in
houfes not beholding the fourth, or impeded of the infortunes, it is
an argument that the garrifon will be taken, and the governor thereof
fubjeCt to danger. If the unfortunate planets, or the Dragon’s Tail,
happen to be in the fourth houfe, and the fortunate planets interpofe
not their benevolent rays, it will be taken by treachery and bafenefs in a
fhort time. If the lord of the fourth commit his difpolition and virtue
to the lord of the afcendant, it fhews the governor has been tampered
with, and for a confideration will lurrender the garrifon. But if none
of thefe afpeCts happen, and on the contrary the fourth houfe and its lord
fhall be fortunate, and free from all impediments, and the lord of the
fourth be in no reception with the lord of the firft, the garrifon, &c,
then befieged, fhall be taken by the army that inverts it.
Of T h e f t s , F u g it iv e s, S t r a y s , &c.
1. O f Fugitives or Strays, Jhall they befound or not ?
2. Which Way are they gone, and to what Difiance
3. Things lofi,if recoverable or
4. Who is the Thief? The Age and Sex of the
5. Are there more than one concerned?
6. Be they Strangers or Familiars ?
7. In what TimeJhall the Thing fiolen be
Wc
Original from
M P A / V r ^ D 1/ n 1 1n 1 1r 1 i n n a
Digitized by Google
3 «* A N I L M J S T R A T i O N
We fhall now confider thefe in their order, and fo conclude the judg­
ments belonging to the feventh houfe.
The Moon and Mercury are naturally fignificators of fugitives and
Arays: but the feventh and ite lord are particularly fignificators thereof,
unlefs the thing Arayed be a horfe, &c. If the lord of the feventh be
retrograde, the perfon abfconded fhall return again of his own accord,
before he goes far from the querent's hoofe. The lord of the afcendant
or Moon in good afjpeft with the lord of the feventh, and the lord of the
feventh in application, declares him to be seturning home again. If the
feventh do not apply, the querent may find him by enquiry. But if the
fignificators behold each other by quartile or oppofition, or from no af-
pedtat all, it denotes the perfon will not return again. If the lord of the
feventh be in the third or ninth, it denotes the fame. If an horfe, ox, or
cow, be Arayed, obferve the lord of the twelfth, and, if he be found re­
trograde, the Aray will return of his own accord; and obferve the fame
rules as above, only changing the lord of the houfe. If the Moon tranf-
fers the light of thedord-of the fugitive or Aray to the lord of the afcen­
dant, it argues hopes of recovering them again. If (he transfers Mer­
cury’s light or virtue, it fignifies the fame. The Moon in good con­
figuration with Jupiter or Venus, or either of them caAing a good afpedfc
to the afcendant, or its lord, from good Jioufes of the figure, fhew hopes
of recovery. The lord of the feventh, either in the twelfth houfe of the
figure, or combuA, denotes the perfon to be under bonds of refiraint,
perhaps in prifon j Mercury fo pofited argues the fame. When the pla­
net feparates from the houfe of the Moon, it (hews the Aray is taken in­
to cuAody, and driven away and fold ; and, if any planet be found to
feparate from the lord of the fecund, it ihpws the fame. If the Moon,
or fignificator of the Aray, &c. apply to the lord of the eighth from his
afcendant, or be pofited in the eighth, it is dead. If the difpofitor of
the Moon, or fignificator of the hea&, be pofited in the eighth houfe, ap­
plying to the quartile or oppofition of an infortune in the fourth, the
fame. The lord of the fixth or twelfth, pofited in the fixth or twelfth,
or in the ninth or tenth, argues the beafi Arayed to be either in the pound
or in the cuAody of fome perfon. The lord of the feventh, or fixth,
fortunated by the good heams of Jupiter or Venus, in the fecond, fifth
or eleventh, houfe, or the Sun caAing a trine unto them, denotes they
are likely to be found again.
Which Way are they gone ? and to what ?
The Moon, or fignificator of the fugitive or Aray, in the tenth houfe,
Aiews they are gone fouth; in the feventh, weA; in the fourth, north;
OfFugitivesor S
t
r
a
y
s,fall theybefoundornot?
2 in
Original from
M P A / Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O ' L O G Y . j
in the afcendant, eaft. If the fignificator of the ftray be in watery figfts,
they are northward, and in fome moift moorifh place. If in airy figns,
they are wcftward, and in mountainous and high places. If in earthy
figns, they are fouthward, and in copfes or woods. If in fiery figns, they
are eaftward, and in the open fields. The Moon in the fame quarter with
the lord of the afcendant, and not more than one fign diftance between
them, (hews they are near the place from whence they went; but, if they
are diftant above ninety degrees, then they are gone far from the querent.
If the Moon be diftant from the fignificator of the fugitive or ftray, either
by body or afpe<ft, only one degree in a moveable fign, they are diftant
above Seventeen furlongs from the owner; if in common or fixed figns,,
ftill lefs ; fo that the diftance is to be apportioned according to the num­
ber of degrees the Moon and fignificator are from each other.
O fThings l
o
j
i, i f recoverable or not ?
Fortunate planets in Textile or trine to the lords of the afcendant or
fecond houfe, and the difpofitor of the part of fortune pofited in the afcen­
dant or fecond houfe, declare a recovery of the goods loft. Either of the
fortunes in the afcendant, having dignities in the fecond houfe, or the
Moon in the feventh, in fextile or trine to the lord of the afcendant, are
very certain arguments of recovering the thing or things loft. The Moon
in the tenth, in trine to a planet in the fecond; or in the fecond, in trine
to the lord of the fecond; the difpofitor of the Part of Fortune or the lord
of the afcendant, in the fecond; the luminaries in trine to each other, or
in trine to the cufp of the fecond houfe; or the lord of the fecond in the
eleventh or fourth houfes; are all arguments of recovery. The lord of
the eighth in the afcendant, or with the lord of the afcendant, denotes a
recovery of the goods loft ; arid Jupitec, Venus, or the Dragon’s Head,
in the eleventh houfe, give great hopes of the fame. The Moon, the
Part of Fortune, or its difpofitor, or the lord of the fecond, in the eighth
houfe, are great arguments that the goods loft cannot be recovered.
When both luminaries are under the earth, the thing loft is hard to be
recovered; and, if the fecond houfe or its lord be any way afflitled, ir
denotes the fame. But the greateft arguments of irrecovery are the pofi-
tions of Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon’s Tail, out of their effential digni­
ties, in the fecond houfe; or the lord of the fecond in combuftion, or
in the eighth houfe; or the lord of the fecond in quartile or oppofition
with the lord of the eighth. If the lord of the feventh be in conjunction
with the lord of the eighth; or if the lord of the fecond behold not the
firft houfe, or lord thereof; or the Sun and Moon not afpedting each
other, nor the Part of Fortune; or if they are both under the earth; there
can be no reftitution of the goods loft.
No. 16, 4 H Who-
Digitized by Gck sle Original from
MPl/l/ v n o k ' Dl IQ I Ir I IP D A D V
3 H A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Who is the Thief?— the Age Sex of the Thief?
A peregrine planet in an angle is to be taken for the fignificator of the
thief i particularly if the peregrine planet hath dignities u^the^feventh
houfe, or is lord thereof; or-afflicts the houfe of fubftance^ or its lord ;
or the Part of Fortune, or its^owfir But, if no planet malicioufly afjpedts
the aforefaid fignificators, then admit the lord of the leventh to fignify
the thief, becaufe he hath natural fignification of thieves.' 'Or, if
the planet afflidting the fubftance, or Part of Fortune, or their lords, be
peregrine, or efientially dignified, he will fignify the thief.— If the planet
affiidting the fubftance, &c. be mafculine, and in a mafculine fign and
quarter, it denotes the thief to be a man. If the planet be feminine,
and in feminine parts of the figure, it denotes the thief is feminine, or a
woman. Saturn fignificator of the thief thews him to be old, except in
the beginning of figns; the Sun, Mars, and Jupiter, about thirty or fome-
what more; Venus and Mercury, youthful ; the Moon, according to her
age ; in the firft quarter the fignifies young ; in her fecond, between
twenty and thirty; in her third, between thirty and forty-five; in her
fourth, between forty-five and fixty.
Are there more concerned in the Theft than one?
Many planets afflidting the fignificators of fubftance, whether pere­
grine or not, fhew many thieves, or more thieves than one. If the
fignificator of the thief be in fextile or trine with other planets, and in
double-bodied figns, there are more thieves than one, although but one
be found to afflidt the fignificators of fubftance. The angles of the figure
fixed, and the fignificator of the thief fixed, in no afpedt with any planet,
except the lord of the fubftance, or the difpofer of the Part of Fortune,
whom he afflidts, denote that only one perfon is concerned in the theft
©r robbery.
Isthe Theft committed by Strangers or Familiars ?
The luminaries beholding the afeendant, or its lord, or the lord of the
firft in the firft, in conjunction with the lord of the feventh, denote the
thief to be a familiar, or one well known to the lofer. When the lumi­
naries are in their proper houfes, or in the houfes of the lord of the afeen­
dant, or in the triplicity of the lord of the afeendant, they denote the
thief well known to the querent or lofer. The fignificator of the thief
ftrong in the afeendant, denotes a brother or kinfman, particularly if he
chance to be lord of the third: if the lord of the feventh be in the fe-
venth, he is one of the family. The lord of the afeendant, in the third
or
Origirral from
m c i m v n D i i m i r i i d d a d v
Digitized by Google
O P A S T R O L O G Y . 325
or fourth houfe, denotes the thief to be a fervant in the family. The
fignificator of the thief, in the third or ninth from his own houfe, fhews
the thief to be a ftranger j and if the lord of the afcendant and the fe-
venth, or fignificator of the thief, be not of one triplicity, it denotes the
fame. Mars or Mercury, fignificator of the thief, prefage him to be a
common pilferer, unlefs they govern a houfe of relation j which if they
do, they then point out who it is. If the thief be a domeftic, he is
known thus: The Sun fignifies a father or mafter j the Moon, a mother
or miftrefs j Venus, a wife or a woman ; Saturn, a fervant or a ftranger
coming there by chance; Mars, a fon, brother, or kinfman ; Mercury,
a youth, familiar, or friend.
Inivhat‘
lime Jhall theThing
If teftimonies of recovery appear in the figure, the time may be known
thus: Obferve the application of the two planets fignifying recovery,
and confider the degrees of diftance between their body and afpedt, and
turn the diftance into time. If they happen to be in moveable figns,
then allow as many weeks or days as there are degrees of diftance for the
fpace of time in which it may be recovered; if in common figns, allow
months or weeks j if in fixed figns, years or months. When the Sun
and Moon together behold the afcendant, the thing loft will fpeedily be
recovered j for they fuffer nothing to lie long hid or obfcured: and, if at
the fame time the lord of the fecond be in the afcendant, it will be had
again very fpeedily. The fignificators increafing in light and motion,
and pofited in fortunate places of the figure, prefage a fudden recovery
of the goods loft or miffing.
JU D G M EN TS proper to the E IG H T H HOUSE.
This is called the Houfe of Death, becaufe we enquire from it con­
cerning death, and of the manner of it. It has alfo fignification of the
dowry of a wife, being the fecond houfe firopi the«ight$R The queftions c
proper to it are thefe :
1. O f the Time of the Death of the Querent ?
2. What Manner of Death Jhall be die?
3. Shall the Querent obtain the Wife's Portion ?
4. Shall the Querent or bis Wife diefirjl ?
And each of thefe fhall be treated of particularly in a feparate and dif-
lin tt fe&ion.
2 O f
Digitized by Goi gle Original from
MC\A/ v n c f c ' di i p i 1r 1 I P P A P V
326 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
O f theT
im
eo f theDeatho f theQ
yerent?
To anfwer this queftion, let the lord of the afcendant, the afcendant
itfelf, and the Moon, fignify the querent; the eighth houfe, lord there­
of, and the part of death, together with the planet or planets in the
eighth, fignify the death of the querent. If the lord of the afcendant
and the Moon be free from the beams of the infortunes; or if no infor­
tune, nor the Dragon's Tail, be pofited in the afcendant; they argue n®
danger to the querent, but (hew him to be of a long life. If the faid
fignificators, or either of them, be in conjunction or good afpeCt of the
fortunes, or the fortunes pofited in the afcendant, and the part of life
free ; they prefage the querent, according to nature, may live to a con-
fiderable age. Thus, finding all the fignificators free, the querent will
live as many years as there are degrees between the conjunction, quartile,
or oppofition, of the lord of the eighth houfe and the lord of the afcen­
dant. Or if, before the lord of the afcendant receives this affliction from
the lord of the eighth, he happens to be combuft of the Sun in the
fourth, eighth, twelfth, or fixth, houfes, the degrees of diftanee between
the Sun and the fignificator will fhew the years the querent may live,
before he fhall conclude this life. But, if the fignificators be afflicted,
either by the infortunes, or by the lords of the fourth, fixth, eighth, or
twelfth, houfes, the querent’s life will be of no very long continuance.
In the meafure of time, allow for degrees of diftanee, &cc. in moveable
figns, weeks ; in common figns, months and in fixed figns, years;
which will fhew the length, according to natural caufes, of the querent’s
life. When queftions of this nature are propounded, draw the figure
into a fpeculum, and direCt the fignificators as in a nativity; and when
the afcendant or Hyleg fhall come to any malicious direftion, according
to the folar meafure of time, adjudge the perfon enquiring may be cut
off from the land of the living. But this is only to be done when the
nativity of a perfon is not to be had ; for no abfolute confidence can be
placed in predictions that relate to death, but fuch as are grounded upon
the genethliacal figure of birth, for reafons that will hereafter be given.
What Manner of Death fhall the Querent die ?
Either die lord of the eighth or planets pofited in the eighth fhew the
kind of death the querent fhall be fubjeCt to, reference being had to the
planets beholding him or them. If the fignificator be Jupiter or Venus,,
in their effential dignities, they portend a gentle death to the querent,
except violent fixed ftars be near them. If Saturn be fignificator, he de­
notes death by fome fevere ague, dropfy, or confumption; Mars, by fe*»
Krs or wounds j, the Sun, by pleurifies, or by fome obftruCtion of the
vitals;.
Digitized by Google Original from
M P U / v n c f c ' Dl I P I i r I I D D A B V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 327
vitals; M
ercury, bythephthyfic, frenzy, m
adnefs, lethargy, &
c. andthe
M
oonbydrowning, or bydifeafes proceedingfromcoldandm
oifture.
Shall the Querent obtain his Wife's Portion ?
Every querent is fignified by the afcendant, and the fecond houfe fig- '
nifies his fubftance; the quefited is fignified by the feventh houfe, and
the eighth houfe hath fignification of fubftance in this queftion.—
The lord of the eighth in the eighth, no way impeded or afflicted by the
unfortunate planets, declares the querent will have a good eftatc with
his wife, and take pofleffion of it without trouble. Jupiter, or Venus,
or the Dragon’s Head, pofited in the eighth houfe, or on thecufp of the
eighth, in the terms of the fortunes, the lord of the eighth being no way
impeded, argues the querent fhall have his wife’s portion without any
manner of trouble. The part of fortune in the eighth houfe, in the
dignities of Jupiter or Venus, and they calling their fextile or trine af-
pedts thither, argues not only that the querent fhall have the dowry of
his wife, but alfo (hews it to be confiderable. If there happens a friendly
afpedl between the lord of the fecond and eighth, with reception; or, if
the lord of the eighth be in the fecond, or the lord of the fecond in the
eighth; they denote the querent will obtain his wife’s dowry without
difficulty. But, if there be a quartile or oppofition between the fignifi-
cators, and no reception or tranflation of light; or if the lord of the eighth
be combuft or retrograde; the querent will not obtain the portion of his
wife without great trouble and difficulty. If Saturn or Mars be in the
eighth, and peregrine, very little of the wife’s portion will be obtained;
and, if any, there will be great and violent contention about it. the Dra­
gon’s Tail in the eighth portends the fame. If a woman enquires concern­
ing the eftate of a man fhe expedts to marry, thefe rules will ferve fuffici-
ently; for the afcendant reprefents the woman, if a woman enquires; and
the feventh houfe mull then be for the man, and the eighth for his eftate.
Shall the Man or his Wife diefir f ?
In this queftion particularly note the lord of the afcendant, and the
lord of the feventh, and obferve which of them goes to conjuntlion, quar­
tile, or oppofition, of the lord of the eighth houfe, or to combuftion of
the Sun, or to afpedls of the unfortunate planets, and thence judge. If
it be the lord of the afcendant that firft fuffers that afflidtion, the man,
if a man be querent, (hall die firft; if the lord of the feventh goes firft
to thofe afflidlions, the women will die firft. But it is always to beob-
ferved, that the fignificator which is ftrongeft and moft powerful in the
figure denotes the party reprefented by him (hall live the longeft. This
queftion, however, fhould never be decided but by infpedlion of the na­
tivity of each of the parties, properly redtified and duly confidered.
No. 16. 4 1 JU DG-
Original from
M C M / V r t D k ' Dl ID I i r I I D D A D V
Digitized by G o o g l e
a
ifin
n
fi-n
r
l-M
-a
Q
n
i
n
'
K
n
n
n
h
p
i
r
A
A
A
A
A
A
/
/
.
r
l
n
i
i
/
n
^
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
i
n
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
in
r
i
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
JUDGM ENTS proper to the N IN T H HOUSE.
We judge of voyages at fea, their profperity or infelicity, of fcience,
6cc. and of perfons and things religious, by the ninth houfe: and thefe
queflions are the mod common unto i t :
1. Shall the Voyage be profperousor not ?
2. W ill it be long orJhort ?
3. May the Querent profit by the Science intended?
4. Shall a Clergyman obtain the Benefice he enquires after ?
Thefe queflions properly explained and refolved will give fufficient
light to enable the reader to refolveany others, of the like nature and im­
port, proper to this houfe.
Shall the Voyage beprofperous or not ?
When the ninth houfe or its lord fhall be unfortunately afpedted, it
denotes many hazards and dangers to attend the voyage. If Saturn be
the afHidling planet, the perfon enquiring will be fubjeft to ficknefs
and lofs of goods j but, if Mars or the Dragon’s Tail afflidt either the
ninth houfe or its lord, they declare danger by enemies or pirates. If
the ninth houfe or its lord be fortunate and ftrong, much good and
great fuccefs are promifed to the querent in the voyage, and that he fhall
make a happy and fafe return. The lord of the afcendant and lord of
the ninth in conjundlion, fextile, or trine, with each other, particularly
if there be any reception between them, or pofition in each others
houfes, argues an admirable voyage, and a propitious and fafe return ;
but, if they be in quartile or oppofition, void of all reception, or if
there happen no good tranflation between them, the querent will have
an unaufpicious voyage, and, before he returns home again will have
reafon to wifh he had let it alone. If the lord of the afcendant or the
Moon be in conjunction with a fortunate planet in the tenth houfe,
that being the fecond from the ninth, the querent fliall gain great flore
of wealth by the voyage he undertakes, and enjoy remarkable health of
body. But if the lord of the afcendant or the Moon be in abjedl
places of the figure, or with the lords of abjeCl houfes, or in quartile or
oppofition to them, either peregrine or combuft of the Sun, the perfon
will fall fick in the journey, and the voyage will be unfortunate to him
and, if they be with violent fixed ftars of the firft magnitude, it will be
worfe.
Will
Digitized by Goggle Original from
MEVA/ V n D k ' Dl IRI Ir I I R R A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 329
W ill theVoyage be long or ?
The fignificators of the perfon enquiring; and of the voyage, fwift in
motion, oriental, and in moveable figns, denote the voyage to be fliort
and quick; but, if occidental, they Ihew fome obftrudtions. When
the lord tf the afeendant applies to the lord of the ninth, or the lord of
the ninth to the lord of the afeendant; or if a fortunate planet transfers
the light of the one to that of the other ; they are good arguments of a
fafe return, and a fhort and fpeedy voyage. The lord of the ninth in a
fixed fign, and the lord of the afeendant and Moon in fixed figns, denote
a very long voyage to the querent; if in common figns, the voyage will
be indifferently good ; if in moveable figns, he returns fpeedily. If the
lord of the afeendant be retrograde, or if either he or the Moon apply to
a planet that is retrograde, it fignifies the perfon that goes the voyage
will return home in a fhort time, or perhaps before he goes to the place
intended.
May the Querent profit by the Science
Give the afeendant, its lord, and the Moon, to fignify the querent;
the ninth houfe, the lord thereof, and the planet pofited therein, to fig­
nify the fcience enquired after; and, according to their portions and
configurations, judge of the queflion. The lord of the afeendant and
lord of the ninth in conjunction, or in fextile or trine unto each other,
either in or from angles or fuccedent houfes, give great hopes to the
querent that he (hall gain or profit by the art or fcience he intends to
follow. If fortunate planets poflefs the afeendant or ninth houfe, and
thence (hall friendly behold either the cufps of each houfe or the lords of
them, it is an argument that the querent will profit by the art or fcience
intended. If the Moon be pofited in the ninth, in fextile to the lord
of the afeendant or ninth houfe in the eleventh, particularly if a recep­
tion happen, there is no doubt but the querent will gain by the fcience
intended, and prove a good artift therein ; but, if none of thefe things
appear in the figure, but on the contrary there happens aquartileor oppo-
fition between the fignificators, the party enquiring will not profit by the
art or fcience intended. When the unfortunate planets or Dragon’s Tail
are pofited in the afeendant or ninth houfe, or afHidl their lords, or the
Moon; or if an unfortunate planet happens to be lord of the ninth, and
pofited in an evil place of the figure; the perfon enquiring will not gain
much by the fcience.
Shall
Digitized by Go*, ole Original from
M C l A f V / T D V Dl ID I I f" I I D D A B V
330 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
ShallaC
lergym
anobtaintheB
eneficeheenquiresaftert
Give the afcendant and its lord, and the Moon, to fignify the clergy­
man ; and let the ninth houfe fignify the living, or other ecclefiaftical
preferment, fought after. The lord of the afcendant or Moon, joined to
the lord of the ninth by body or good afpe<ft, gives great hopes that the
minirter or querent may obtain the benefice defired. If the Moon or
lord of the afcendant be in the ninth, or lord of the ninth in the afcen­
dant, or in reception with each other, they are very good arguments
that the querent or minifter (hall obtain the parfonage or church-prefer­
ment defired. When the lord of the afcendant, or Moon, are joined to
the Sun or Jupiter; or in fextile or trine of either of them, in the af­
cendant or ninth houfe; it denotes that the querent will obtain the be­
nefice enquired after. If the principal fignificators be in fextile or trine
with reception, the preferment or benefice comes with little trouble; if
they be in quartile, and at the fame time in reception, the benefice may
be obtained, but it will be with great trouble and delay. The bufinefs
may alfo be brought to pafs by tranflation of light; for, if a planet fepa-
rates immediately from the good afpedt of the lord of the ninth, and ap­
plies to the lord of the afcendant; or if he feparates from the lord of the
afcendant, and applies to the lord of the ninth ; the benefice or prefer­
ment will be obtained, and by the means of a perfon fignified by the
planet that thus transfers the light of the fignificators to each other.—
But, if none of thefe teftimonies happen, it will be a very difficult mat­
ter to obtain the benefice defired. The lord of the afcendant retrograde,
combuft, or cadent, and he or the Moon in quartile or oppofition of the
infortunes, or of the lord of the ninth houfe, without reception, declares
the deftruftion of the matter enquired after, and fhews that it (hall come
to nothing. Infortunes in the ninth houfe, or in the afcendant, or afflict­
ing the lord of the afcendant or ninth houfe, or the Moon, fhew much
trouble and vexation to the perfon enquiring after the benefice, and an im-
poflibility of obtaining the bufinefs at laft. Obferve that planet which
cafts a quartile or oppofition either to the lord of the afcendant or Moon,
and take notice of the houfe he is lord of; for by that means may be dif-
covered what or who will be the occafion of preventing the bufinefs from
taking place. The afflidling planet, being lord of the third, denotes a
neighbour to be the impeditor of the thing; if of the eleventh, fome
pretended friend ; if of the tenth, the patron hath no good opinion of
him; if of the feventh or fifth, he is confidered a contentious and im­
proper perfon. Fortunate planets in fortunate places of the figure, be­
friending the fignificators, give hopes of the bufinefs enquired after; but,
if malefic planets, in unfortunate places of the figure, afflifcl the fignifi­
cators of the bufinefs, it will never come to any thing.
2 JUDG-
Digitized by Go*, gle Original from
M C I A / V H D I ^ Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
m
z
e
u
/
i
i
l
l|j
.
/
/v
v
w
w
.
m
c
ii
i
n
u
u
s
l.
u
i
y
/
d
t
.
<
.
e
b
b
_
u
b
t
;
-
t
f
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
t
:
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 331
JU D G M EN TS proper to the T E N T H HOUSE.
The honour, office, dignity, and profelucn, of each querent, are known
from the tenth houfe; and thefe interrogations arc common to it.
1. Shall the Querent obtain the office or dignity dc/ired '?
2. Shall he remain in the employment he poffieffies ?
3. What profeffion •will be bejlfo r any one tofollow
Thefe queftions properly anfwered will inflruCt the ingenious reader
how to judge of any other of the like nature.
Shall the Querent obtain the Office or Dignity
Still remember to give the afcendant, its lord, and the Moon, to fignify
the querent, let him be a perfon either of high or low condition; and the
tenth houfe and the lord thereof, and the Sun, becaufe he is the natural
fignificator of honour and dignity, to reprefent the office, honour, or
dignity, enquired after. If the lord of the afcendant or Moon be joined
to the Sun, or to the lord of the tenth, or if they behold the tenth by a
fextile or trine, the querent fhall obtain the dignity fought after, by his
induflry, and by the means he intends to ufe. If the lord of the afcen­
dant or the Moon be in the tenth, or the lord of the tenth, or the Sun be
pofited in the afcendant, and neither of them impeded, the querent fhall
obtain the honour or office he feeks after. The fignificators in textile
or trine to each other, or a fortunate planet tranflating the friendly beams
of one to the other, give allured hopes of fuccefs to the querent. For­
tunate planets in the tenth, or in conjunction, fextile, or trine, of the
lord of the tenth, having dignities in the afcendant, declare the querent
will obtain the office or dignity defired. If Saturn or Mars be flrong in
the afcendant, and joined to the lord of the tenth, either by body or good
afpeCt, it prefages hopes of the preferment fought after, and that it
will be gained, although with much trouble. A fortunate planet tranf-
ferring the light of the lord of the tenth to the lord of the afcendant,
denotes the querent will obtain the dignity or honour fought after, by
the means of the perfon reprefented by that planet who thus transfers the
light of the lord of the tenth. If the Sun’s light be fo transferred, it
portends the fame. But, if none of the aforefaid configurations re­
ceptions, or tranllations, happen among the fignificators, the honour and
preferment fought after by the querent will not be obtained; although
he may have the greateft promifes, and moft probable hopes that can
poflibly be conceived.
No. 17. 4 K Shall
Digitized by Go». gle Original from
MCIA/ Dl ID I Ir I I Q R A R V
332 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Shall a Perfon remain in the Employment he pojfejfes ?
When a perfon is in an employment, truft, or office, and is jealous of
being turned out of the fame, obfervc whether the lord of the afcendant
or Moon, and the lord of the tenth, are going to conjunction, or to any
friendly afpedt, as a fextile or trine; or if there beany reception between
the two chief lignificators: for, if fo, the querent fhall hold and keep the
employment he poflefTes. If the lord of the afcendant be in fextile or
trine to either of the two fortunes in the tenth houfe, and no affliction
happen from the infortunes, the querent will long enjoy the place he
poflefTes. The lord of the afcendant in the tenth, or lord of the tenth
in the afcendant, denotes the fame. But, if the lord of the afcendant or
the Moon be in quartile or oppofition with any planets, and the fame
planets in conjunction, fextile, or trine, with the lord of the tenth, or the
Sun, the querent will lofe the employment he poflefTes ; and fuch per-
fons as are fignified by the planets in conjunction, fextile, or trine, with
the lord of the tenth, or the Sun, are endeavouring to prejudice him in
the bufinefs. The lord of the afcendant retrograde, and combuft of the
Sun, fhews the querent to have incurred the difpleafure of thofe that
have power over him, and that they will therefore take away the office
or employment he holds. If the Moon or lord of the afcendant be in
quartile or oppofition with the lord of the tenth or the Sun without re­
ception, it portends the querent to be in danger of lofing the office or
employment he holds or poflefTes. The lord of the afcendant or the
Moon feparating from the lord of the tenth or the Sun, declares the
querent in danger of lofing the office or employment he holds; particu­
larly if from their feparation they apply to the malicious afpe&s of the
infortunes.
W hat Profejjion will be bejlfo r the Querent tofollow ?
This queftion is only fit to be propounded by mechanics, and not by
thofe who live and move in a higher iphere ; and, when a proper perfon
propounds the queftion, he may be anfwered according to the following
rules. Confider the lord of the afcendant, and the Moon, for the perfon
enquiring; and the lord of the tenth houfe, and the planets Mars and
Venus, for the trade and profeffion of the querent, and obferve the afpedrs
between the lignificators according to the figns they are pofited in, and fo
judge of the profeffion of the querent. If the lignificators, or the great­
er part of them, happen to be in fiery figns, the querent will do well in
any profeffion that relates thereunto, according to his capacity of birth;,
as a phyfician, chemift, furgeon, goldftnith, filverfmith, jeweller, apo­
thecary; or, if of a meaner condition, he may make a good cutler, fm ith,
baker, glafs-maker, our the like. The lignificators in aereal figns, ac­
cording
Original from
r i A # \ y r \ n 1/ m i n i i ^ ■ m n
gitized by Goode
OF A S T R O L O G Y
. 333
cording to the birth of the querent, denote he will make a good law­
yer, arithmetician* accomptanr, furveyor, fcrivener, clerk, aftronomer,
&c. otherwife a good haberdafher, milliner, painter, draper, or one
that may deal in retail commodities. But, if the fignificators be in
earthy figns, the querent may make a good farmer or hufbandman, gar­
dener, grafier, coach-maker, joiner, carpenter, &c. The fignificators of
trade or profeffion, in watery figns, denote the querent to do well in
brewing, malting, or in felling wines and fpirituous liquors. When
the lord of the attendant is in .Textile or trine to either of the fignificators
of trade, and they are pofited in angles or other good houfes of the figure,
the querent may do very well in the trade or profeffion he follows. If
the Moon be in the like good configuration with any of them, it portends
the fame. But, if the fignificators of trade be afHiCted in cadent places of
the figure, and the lord of the afcendant or the Moon in quartile or op-
pofition to them, the querent will not thrive by the trade or profeffion
he is about to follow.
JU D G M EN TS proper to the E L E V E N T H H O U SE.
This houfe gives judgment relative to the friends of each querent,
their bafenefs or fidelity, and of his hopes, &c. The queftions that are
moil common to it are thefe r
1. Shall the Friends of the Querent provefaithful to him-?
2 . Shall the Querent obtain what he anxioufly defires 2
All other things particularly relating to this houfe are comprehended!
under thefe two.
Shall the Friends of the Querent provefaithful to him ?
The afcendant and its lord reprefent the querent, and the eleventh:
houfe and its lord the friends of the querent. Now if any benevolent
afpeCt is found between the lords of the afcendant and the eleventh houfe,
or any friendly reception or tranflation of light between them, the friend
of the querent is not to be fufpeCted, but he will prove faithful. If
the Moon be in friendly afpeCt to the lord of the eleventh, or there
happens any good tranflation of light or reception between them, ini
good places of the figure, the friend proves juft and faithful. The dif-
pofitor of the part of friends, in conjunction, Textile, or trine, or in good
reception with the lord of the afcendant in good houfes, and configurated
with ftars of a benevolent nature, argues the querent’s friend to be juft
and faithful to him. The lord of the afcendant or the Moon in the
eleventh houfe, and the lord of the eleventh in the afcendant, fhews a
reciprocal
Digitized by Google Original from
M E M / V n D V D I I D I I r I I D D A
a
i
f
i
n
n
f
i
-
n
H
4
a
c
n
c
c
a
-
n
o
/
f
i
i
n
-
i
c
n
n
i
l
n
c
i
r
AAAA/A//,r
l
n
i
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
i
n
n
n
'
i
n
p
i
i
i
n
n
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
reciprocal affedtion between the querent and his friends. If cither of the
fortunes caft their friendly beams to them both at the fame time, it ar­
gues the fame. On the contrary, if the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
be in quartile or oppofition of the infortunes in the eleventh, or of the lord
of the eleventh, the friends of the querent are not faithful to him. It
there be no reception between them, this judgment is the niore certain.
The Dragon’s tail aftlidting the eleventh houfe, or the lord thereof, thews
the friends of the querent to be very deceitful, let them pretend ever fo
fair. The fame if the lord of the eleventh be near violent fixed ftars,
as Caput Algol, Oculus Taurus, Serpentarius, the Chafle, &c. If the
fignificators of the querent and his friends be in quartile or oppofition
from fixed figns, and in angles, it declares the friends, or at lealt fuch as
pretend to be fo, faithlefs ; and that perpetually. If the natural fignifi­
cators of friendfhip, which arc Jupiter and Venus, be pofited in the af­
cendant, or caft a friendly afpedt thereto, or to the lord thereof, or the
Moon, the friends of the querent will prove faithful. But, if they caft a
quartile or oppofition to the Moon, or lord of the afcendant, or to the afcen­
dant itfelf, it admonifhes the querent to beware of pretended friends.
Shall the Querent obtain what he hopesfo r or defires ?
When a perfon hath hopes of a thing, and is unwilling to declare what
it is, yet would wifh to be refolved what the effedt may be, and accord-
ingly propounds the above queftion, the afcendant and its lord are to figni-
fy him, and the eleventh houfe and its lord, with the fortunate planets
therein, are to fignify the matter or thing defired. If the fignificators
are in reception, or in good afpedt with each other, the bufinefs or matter
hoped for is poflible to be obtained ; or, if there be any good tranflation
of light or reception in houfes, it argues the fame thing. If the lord of
the afcendant and lord of the eleventh receive each other in angles, or
fhall be received of the fortunate planets in angles or in fuccedent houfes,
the thing that the querent hopes for fhall be accomplifhed. Either the
lord of the afcendant or the Moon received in fixed figns, fliews the que­
rent fhall obtain the bufinefs that he hopes for, and that completely; if
in moveable figns, he will obtain very little or nothing of what he hopes
for; and, if in bicorporal figns, he will have only a part of what he de-
fires to obtain. But if on the contrary the fignificators are in quartile
or oppofition, and void of all manner of reception, having no good
tranflation of light, or if they be combuft, cadent, peregrine, or retro­
grade, or with fixed ftars of an evil influence, the matter defired will not
be brought to perfetlion. But, if the querent in propounding the quef­
tion tells the particular thing he hopes to attain, then the fignificators
thereof muft be taken from their proper place, and the rules varied as
the fubjedl may require.
2 JU D G -
Original from
M E U / Vf'IDfc' DI ID! IT I I DD A B V
Digitized by Got gle
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 335
JU D G M EN TS proper to the T W E L F T H HO U SE.
By this houfe we judge of private enemies, captivity, and imprifon-
ment ; and the queftions belonging to it are,
1. Haththe Querent private Enemies ?
2. Who are t
h
e
y
, or how may he know them t
3. O fa Prifoner orC
a
p
t
i
v
e
, when may he be
Thefe queftions being refolved, will enable the reader to anfwer any
others of a fimilar ftiape and tendency.
Hath the Querent private Enemies ?
If th is queftion is indifferently propofed, obferve what afpeft there
be between the lord of the afeendant and twelfth houfe, and from what
houfe of heaven it happens; and fo judge of the querent’s private enemies.
If the afpedt be by quartile or oppofition, and out of malignant houfes of
the figure, the querent hath private enemies; and if the lord of the twelfth
be a fuperior planet, as Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, and any way dignified,
the enemies are the more to be feared; but, if they are inferiors, they are
not fo dangerous; the more powerful the fignificators of the enemies are,
the more injury will the querent fuftain by them ; the lefs powerful, the
lefs evil and mifehief will they be able to do him. If the lord of any other
houfe befides the twelfth be in quartile or oppofition to the lord of the
afeendant or the Moon, or to the afeendant itfelf, from obfeure places of
the figure, the querent hath private enemies. But if the afeendant, and
the lord thereof, and the Moon, be void of the evil afpedts of any planet
or planets, and are befriended by the good rays of the fortunes, and the
lord of the afeendant and the Moon in fortunate places of the figure, they
denote the querent hath no private enemies.
Who are his private E
n
e
m
i
e
s
, and how may he know them ?
To refolve this queftion truly, obferve the pofitions of the lords of the
afeendant and twelfth houfe; for, if the lord of the twelfth afflidt the
lord of the afeendant, or the afeendant from the third houfe, the lord of
the third aflifting, the querent’s greateft private enemies are thofe that live
near him, or are nearly related to him ; that is to fay ; either a brother,
kinfman, or neighbour. The perfon is to be deferibed by the planet af-
flidting, and the fign in which he is pofited. If the lord of the twelfth
afflidt the afeendant or his lord from the fourth houfe, the father of the
querent is his enemy ; if in the fifth, his children or fome occafional
No. 17. 4 L vilitor
itized by C j O O $ j l C
Original from
M C V M V r i D k ' Dl ID I I T I I R D A D V
s
ifin
n
F
i-n
r
l-w
-a
c
n
i
m
c
;
n
n
il
n
p
i
r
a
a
a
a
a
a
/
/
t
I
t
t
i
i
/
n
^
y
m
R
i
n
-
^
i
R
n
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
Digitizec
vifitor will prove his private enemy. If in the fixth houfe, his fervants,
or an uncle. If in the feventh houfe, his wife or partner fhall prove fe-
cretly mifchievous to him. 1 he perfon or perfons fignified by that houfe
where the Dragon’s Tail is pofited will be malicious and prejudicial to
the querent; particularly if the lord thereof afflidt the lord oft he afcen­
dant, the afcendant itfelf, or the Moon, at the fame time.
O f a Prifoner orCaptive, whenJhall he befe t at Liberty?
The lord of the afcendant or Moon, fwift in motion, denotes freedom
from imprifonment in a fhort time; if either of them commit their vir­
tues or difpofitions to any planet or planets in the third or ninth houfe, or
to the lords of them, not being pofited in angles, it argues a releafe from
imprifonment in a fhort time. . If the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
be more potent in the figure than the lord of the twelfth, or be feparating
from the ill afpedts of the lord of the twelfth, or the difpofitor of the part
of imprifonment, particularly in moveable figns, and thence immediately
applying to the friendly beams of the fortunate planets Jupiter or Venus;
the prifoner or captive cannot remain long in the prifon where he is, but
will be releafed. The lord of the afcendant or the Moon in the fourth,
fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, or under the fun-beams, or retro­
grade, or unhappily afflided of Saturn or Mars, fhews the perfon under
reftraint will not be releafed from confinement fora long time. And, if
the infortune happens to be lord of the eighth, he will die in prifon. If
the lord of the afcendant or the Moon feparate from the lord of the
fourth, and immediately apply to Jupiter or Venus; or if the lord of the
fourth feparate from the lord of the afcendant; they argue good hopes
that the captive or prifoner fhall not continue long in prifon. A fixed
fign afcending at the time of the queftion, and the lord thereof a ponder­
ous planet, and in an angle, portends a tedious time of imprifonment.
If common figns, the afflidion will not be fo long; if moveable, it
will be very fhort; if the lord of the afcendant be cadent from his houfe
or exaltation, and the Moon happen to be in Scorpio or Aquaries, it pre-
fages long imprifonment. If the lord of the hour in which the prifoner
was taken be an unfortunate planet, and unfortunately placed in the
heavens, it declares a tedious imprifonment, and very long captivity;
but, if he be a fortune, the imprifonment cannot be long. The only
Way to difcover the length of time in which a prifoner or captive fhall
be releafed, is, by obferving the degrees of diftance between the fignifi-
cators and the fortunate planets, or the Sun; and according to the figns
they fhall be found in, whether fixed, common, or moveable, meafure
the days, weeks, months, or years, of the prifoner’s captivity, as here­
tofore direded.
Having
"
>
vGoogle Original from
m c u / v r t D v n i i D i \n i i d d a d w
O F A S T R O L O G Y 3 3 7
Having thus given rules and directions how to folve any kind of quef-
tion proper to each of the twelve houfes, I fliall next proceed to illuf-
trate thel'e rules further, by giving examples of a variety of true and re­
cent queftions which I have refolved for different perl'ons, moll of whom
are now living, and ready to confirm any fad: that may be difputed by
the incredulous' reader. I (hall begin with fuch as properly belong to
the firft houfe, and fo pafs on regularly to the others, and give an exam­
ple or two from each of them.
Q U ESTIO N I. On the L E N G T H of LIFE.
A gentleman of eminence and fortune in his majefty’s navy, having an
inclination to lay out a fum of money on life-annuities, applied to me
with a very prefiing folicitation to inform him whether his life would be
long or fliort, that he might thereby determine whether fuch a purchafe
would be to his advantage. Not being able to procure his nativity, I
took down the time of the day when the queftion was propofed, and,
having redified it by a corred regulator, I immediately projeded the
following fcheme.
My
Digitized by Go gle M C U / V r i D / Dl IP I i r I I R D A B V
My full: bufincfs was to examine the figure, to find whether it were
radical, and fit to be adjudged, which I found to be the cafe, becaul'e
the lord of the afeendant and the lord of the hour are of one nature and
triplicity; and the fignificator of the querent exactly deferibed his perfon,
which is of a middle filature, fanguine complexion, and of an acute un­
demanding, denoted by Mercury’s pofition in the fign Aries, the houfe
of Mars. The Moon being in oppofition to the fun, (hews him to have
a mark or fear near the left eye; which was alfo true ; and therefore, as
I found all circumftances to concur in proving the quefiiion to be well
and ferioufly grounded, and free from all impofition, I gave him my
judgment upon the figure as follows.
The princely fign Leo, the querent’s fignificator, occupies the afeen­
dant j and the Sun, the lord thereof, and giver of life, is pofited near
his meridian altitude in the medium cceli, and in the fign Aries, his
houfe of exaltation, ftrong, powerful, and in full dignity, free from the
evil rays of the lords of the fixth, eighth, fourth, or fecond, houfes,
which neither impedite the Sun nor the afeendant with any evil afpe<ft.
But the Moon, lady of the twelfth, is in oppofition to the Sun, making
at the fame time a quartile mundane afpedt with the afeendant, and a fex-
tile afpedt with Saturn in the zodiac; from which pofitions I inferred the
following particulars.
The afflidtion of the lord of the afeendant, by the oppofition of the
Moon in Libra, the houfe of Venus, and Venus difpofitor of the Moon
in her own houfe, and in the feminine fign Taurus, going to a femifex-
tile with the Sun, denotes that he will receive fome confiderable injury
from a female connexion, now exifting under the fpecious pretence of
friendfhip and fond attachment; and this is declared by the Moon being
lady of the twelfth, the houfe of private enemies, which difpofes of the
part of fortune, and thereby indicates that he will lofe fome part of his
fortune by her means.
The Moon’s mundane quartile afpedl to the afeendant, in an airy fign,
declares that he will be attacked with a fevere fit of the wind cholic,
or fome dangerous complaint in the bowels and reins; but it will not
prove fatal to him, becaufe the Sun, the lord of his afeendant, is more
ftrong and powerful, and in greater dignities, than the afflicting planets;
and therefore, according to natural efficient caufes, they will prevail over
all fubordinate efte&s.
From
Digitized by Go*, ole Original from -
K I P W V n R k ' Dl I P I I r I I R P A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 33 9
From a confideration of thofe parts of the figure which relate to the
circumftances of his paft life, I informed him he had improved his for­
tune, and been fuccefsful in fome important voyage, becaufe the Dra­
gon’s Head is fituated in his ninth houfe; but that he had lately fuftvred
greatly by a violent hurricane, that threatened deftrudtion or fhipwreck ;
which is denoted by the oppofition of Saturn to the Part of Fortune, and
the Moon having lately l'eparated from an oppofition with Mercury, lord
of the third houfe, where the Dragon’s Tail is pofited. This circum-
ftance I had the pleafure of hearing him acknowledge to be true; and
that the ftorm arofe only eight days before the ftiip came into port.
He requefted me to afcertain the time when the above illnefs would
happen. I accordingly took the number of degrees between the Sun and
Moon, by fubtracfting the lefs fum from the greater; and found the
diftance to be eleven degrees fifty-nine minutes. I then fought the
Moon’s latitude, and found it one degree thirty-three minutes fouth,
which, added to the above, make thirteen degrees thirty-two minutes;
and, as the fignificators are in moveable figns, I computed the time by
weeks and days, and predicted this illnefs would befal him about the
20th of July following ; and that, after he fliould be reftored to health
again, he would go on, without fuftaining any other ferious indifpofition,
until the fixty-ninth year of his age > about which time I conceive the
functions of life will be naturally extinguifhed, by a complication of in­
firmities.
I have lately had the pleafure of convening with the gentleman on the
fubjedt of this queftion. He informed me, that towards the middle of
July, 1783, he was attacked with a kind of bilious complaint in his
ftomach, which brought on violent fits of the cholic. That, towards
the latter end of the fame month, he found an obftrudtion in his bowels,
and his phyfician declared it next to a miracle that his life was faved.
He now appears to be in perfedt health, and has funk a confiderable fum
of money in life annuities, which he declares was done in confequence of
the verity he found in thefe predictions.
QU ESTIO N II. On the FA TE of a SH IP at SEA.
In the year 1781, a gentleman called upon me who had a confiderable
fhare in a privateer, which had been completely fitted out and fent to
fea a long time before, and the proprietors could not obtain the leaf!
information of her. He therefore requefted me, if in my power, to give
him fome probable account of what had befallen her. After convincing
myfelf the queftion was radical, and no trick or impolition intended.
No. 17. 4 M which
Original from
M P A / V f l D ^ Dl IDI \r l i d d
Digitized by Google
which is always necelfiry to be carefully enquired into by the rules al­
ready laid down for that purpofe, I proceeded to give my judgment on the
following figure, rectified to the precife time the queftion was propound­
ed.
Here the afeendant and the Moon are fignificators of the fhip ; and
Venus, becaufe the fign Taurus, the houfe of Venus, is on the afeendant,
is fignificatrix of the crew; and Mercury, with the Part of Fortune,
denote her ftores and all the other materials on-board her. The (hip it-
felf appears weil found and fubftantial, but not a fwift failer, as is demon-
ftrated by an earthy fign poffefling the cufp of the afeendant, and the
fituation of the Dragon’s Head in five degrees of the fame fign. The
planet Mars is fignificator of the enemy.
Now the Moon, which reprefents the fhip, being fituated in the eighth
houfe, the houfe of death and difappointment, and at the fame time be-
fieged by the two malefic planets Saturn and Mars, denotes her to be
overpowered by the enemy* Mars* lord of the feventh, the houfe of
open
Digitized by Google Original from
M C l / l / V O D V D l ID I i r I I D D A D U
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 341
open enemies, being pofited with all his dignities therein; and in re­
ception of Jupiter, lord of the enemy’s houfe of fubftance; and being
alfo difpofitor of the Moon, Mercury, and Venus, which reprefent the
Ship and^crew, obvioufly declares them to be in the hands of the enemy.
The fignificators, being pofited in fiery figns, indicate an engagement to
have taken place; but the fuperior Strength of the malefic rays of the
infortunes declare it to have been of Short duration, and of very unequal
force. The crew being represented by Venus, who is difpofed of by
Mars in the twelfth houfe, the hrrufe of imprifonment and affli&ion,
plainly Shews them to be imprifoned in the enemy’s country. And as
Mercury is retrograde, and Situated alfo in the twelfth houfe, with the
Moon’s fortunate node, it is apparent that the Ship and iiores will never
be reftorcd to the owners, but will be appropriated to the ufe of the cap-
tors, or difpofed of for their advantage. The Moon’s pofition in the
eighth houfe declares the Ship to have been taken at a confiderable dis­
tance from home: and Sagittarius poSTeSIing the cufp of the eighth, which
is a fouth-weft fign, and fituated in the fouth-weft part of the heavens,
denotes the capture to have been made in a fouth-weft part of the world.
The querent left me with Strong hopes of finding this judgment erro­
neous ; and appeared fo extremely averfe to believe there could be any
truth in it, (becaufe perhaps it operated fo much againft his own intereft,)
that I would not fuffer him to leave the room until he had promifed
upon his honour to let me know the refult. Accordingly, in about fix
months afterwards, I received a Short note from him, informing me that
the owners had received advice from the captain of the privateer, that he
had fallen in with a French frigate of twenty-four guns, which being
vaftly fuperior to him, he was obliged, after a Short refiftance, to ftrike
his colours, and was carried prifoner, with the reft of the crew, into
France.
QU ESTIO N III. Of an ABSENT SON, whether DEAD or ALIVE.
A poor woman applied to me in the greateft diftrefs of mind, on ac­
count of her fon, who had turned out wild, and went to fea without the
confent of his friends. He had been abfent a confiderable time, with­
out ever once fo far refledting on the dilconfolate fituation of his parent,
as to be induced to addrefs a line to her, to remove her anxiety, or to
Slate his own profpedts and purfuits. It was the woman’s conftant practice
to make enquiry after him among the feafaring people, till at length She
heard an imperfect ftory of fome engagement abroad, in which her fon
was
Original from
m c u / v n c k ' d i m i i r i i q b a p v
Digitized by « q 1 c
342 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
was reported to be killed. Upon this unpleafant news, the requefted
me to inform her, by the rules of Aftrology, whether her fon was d; ad
or alive, or whether the account the had heard was true or fall'e. Her
uneafinefs of mind was too apparent for me to doubt her fincerity, or to
fuppofe the queftion not fit to be adjudged, and therefore I erected this
figure, and gave my opinion thereon as follows:
In this figure Virgo rifes upon the afcendant, and Mercury, lord
thereof, and fignificator of the querent, is pofited in the twelfth houfe,
the houfe of affliction and forrow. The fifth houfe of the figure is here
confidered as her fon’s firft or afcendant, and Saturn, lord thereof, is
his fignificator, and is pofited in the fourth angle, or imura cceli, which
reprefents the grave and termination of all things. Saturn is alfo in
conjunction with the Part of Fortune in the fourth, both or which are
difpofed of by Jupiter, and Jupiter by M ars; which malefic planet
pofleffes the fon’s firft houfe or afcendant in his exaltation, and in oppo-
fition to the Sun and Venus in the feventh, which is the houfe of open
enemies and war.
2 From
igitized by G o o g l e
Original from
MPUii v n p t ' D i i m i r i i r r a r v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . ’ 343
From thefe configurations I drew the inferences following: That Mer­
cury, the querent’s fignificator, by being pofited in the twelfth houfe,
plainly Ihewed her fears were too well grounded. That Saturn, figni­
ficator of the quefited, and the Part of Fortune, being both difpofed of by
Jupiter, and this planet dilpofed of by Mars, indicates all their benevo­
lent effefls to be deftroved by the malignant influence of this infortune.
Mars being in the fon’s afcendant, in his exaltation, and in oppofition to
Sol, is a ftrong argument of a violent death ; the kind and manner of
which are thus delcribed. Saturn, his fignificator,'is pofited in the fiery
fign Sagittarius ; and Leo, which occupies the cufp of his eighth, and
Aries the cufp of his fourth, are alio of the fiery triplicity ; the Sun,
the giver of life, and light of time, is pofited in the watery fign Cancer,
difpofed of by the Moon in the watery fign Pifces, and the Moon by
Jupiter in the watery fign Scorpio; and the whole of their influences are
transferred to the fiery planet Mars, in his afcendant. From thefe cir-
cumftances it became obvious to me that the youth was no longer in ex-
iftence; and that his death happened upon the water, by means of fome
fatal warlike inftrument, and in fome defperate engagement with an open
enemy.
The querent then alked me if I could give her any fatisfaftory account
how long ago this happened. I took down the degrees and minutes of
the two principal fignificators, viz. the Sun and rs, and fubtra&ed
the one from the other, which gave four degrees five minutes for the re­
mainder ; and this being converted into time by the rules before laid
down for moveable figns, in which the above fignificators were pofited, I
informed her the accident had befallen her fon fomewhat more than a
month before fhe heard the news of it. Some time afterwards a fhip ar­
rived with an account of this engagement, which happened on the coaft
of France, and confirmed the whole of this judgment.
Q U E S T I O N IV. On the Profpedt of R I C H E S .
A gentleman called upon me to enquire, whether any remarkable
change of circumftances would ever happen to him in refpedt of riches,
and the time when. Conceiving his defire to arife from a ftrong impulfe
of the mind, I took the exadt time of the day, and ere&ed the following
figure to refolve this queftion.
No. 17. 4 N The
Original from
m c i a / v r t D k ' di id 1 i r 1 i d d
Digitized by Goi. ole
11
li
U
b
i.
u
i
y
/
d
L
L
e
b
b
_
u
b
t
:
-
f
f
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
e
3 4 4 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
33
?
§
5
D
V
S
J
5)
D
V
IT
)
D
D
D
T h e lord of the afcendant, and lord of the hour, being of one nature
and triplicity, (hews the figure to be radical. And, as Gemini occupies
the cufp of the afcendant. M ercury is its lord, and the querent’s fignifi-
cato r; and being pofited in the eleventh houfe, in a watery fign, and in
trine to Jupiter, lord of the feventh, who is here pofited in the fixth, is
a ftrong argum ent of riches by means of fervants, or of perfons in a fub-
ordinate capacity. T he M oon, who is lady of the fecond, being in her
exaltation, in trine afpedt to the Sun, and applying to a trine with Jupi­
ter, and a dexter trine afpedt with M ercury, declares a great and fudden
flow of riches to the querent, and that unexpedtedly.
Being m uch preffed to fpeak to the particular point of time when this
good fortune (hould come up, I confidered what might be the gentle­
m an’s occupation ;and obferving Mercury to be his fignificator, and
rte d in a watery fign, I told him that I judged he belonged to the fea,
and had fome employment on (hip-board, in a capacity where writing or
accounts were principally concerned. T his he acknowledged, by faying
he was captain’s fecretary. I then obferved that his principal fignifica-
2 10*S
O
rig
in
a
l from
m p \a/ v n p y di i m i r I I D D A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 34s
tors of wealth and riches were alfo poflted in watery figns, as the Moon
in Cancer in the fecond houfe, and Jupiter in Scorpio in the fixth, and
the Sun and Mercury in Pifces in the eighth, all in trine afpedts of each
other, which plainly indicated thefe riches were to come by the fea; and
as they-were to be fudden, and as it were inftantanecus, I concluded they
would arife by the capture of fome rich prize, in a fouth-eaft direction
from London, which is denoted by the Part of Fortune being in the twelfth
houfe, and Venus, its difpoiitor, in Aquaries, a fouthern fign, in quar-
tile afpedt to the Part of Fortune; and the Part of Fortune being oppofite
to Jupiter, lord of the feventh, the houle of public enemies, alfo de­
clares the querent’s fortune fhould come that way; which is rendered ftill
more apparent, by the Part of Fortune being in fextile to the Moon and
Mercury. When I had mentioned thefe particulars, he frankly told me
his fhip was under failing orders, and he expedted to be called on-board
every hour.
1
To afcertain the time when thefe riches fhould be acquired, I parti­
cularly noticed the application of the Moon to the lord of the afeendant,
and found them nineteen degrees ditlant from a pirtile trine afpedt. But
the Moon, being fwift in motion, with three degrees north latitude, and
Mercury having no latitude, I dedudted three degrees from the Moon’s
place, which I fet down at twelve degrees; and then by fubtradting
twelve degrees from twenty-eight degrees three minutes, which is Mer­
cury’s place, there remains fixteen degrees three minutes ; which, as
the Moon is in a moveable fign, and Mercury in a common fign, is equal
to fixteen weeks, or thereabout; and therefore I concluded this good
fortune would happen to him in nearly that diftance of time. And I have
fince had the fatisfadlion of hearing, from the gentleman’s own mouth,
that this predidtion was literally verified by the capture of a rich prize
within the time fpecified.
Q U ESTIO N V. On the Succefs of a JO U RN EY .
Being applied to by a tradefman, who was going a journey on fome
particular bufinefs, to inform him whether it would be profperous and
fuccefsful; I took the time of the day, and projedted the following
fcheme to correfpond with it.
Here
Digitized by Go*. gle Original from
M P / l f V f i D V Dl I P I Ir I I D R A D V
u
u
i
i
i
c
i
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
iii/itJ
U
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
i
d
i
i
m
i
u
^
L
.u
f
y
/d
u
t
_
e
b
b
_
u
b
t
if
f
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
le
34^ A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Here I find four degrees fourteen minutes of Gemini upon the cufp of
the horofcope, and confequently Mercury is the querent’s fignificator,
which being pofited in the twelfth houfe, the houfe of anxiety and dif-
appointment, combuft of the Sun, and difpofed of by Mars, the impli-
cator of private enemies, in the querent’s houfe of fubftance; which po-
fitions plainly {hewed the object of the journey to be concerning the ad-
juftment of fome accounts, or other money matters. The Moon, lady of
the third, fignifies the journey; and the feventh houfe and its lord, i. e.
Jupiter, reprefents the place and perfon the querent is going to.
Now the Moon having lately feparated from a partile conjunction of
her fortunate node and Jupiter, and applying to a quartile of Mars, and
then to a conjunction of Venus, tend to prove that his journey (hould
be fafe and unimpeded; but at the fame time denotes that the objeCt of it
{hould not be accompliflied, which is further confirmed by the pofition
of Mars in the fecond houfe. I informed him that he would moll pro­
bably meet with unplealant treatment from fome lady, refpecting money
concerns, and that they {hould part in anger, which would terminate to
O
riginal from
M C I A / V r i D t ^ □ I ID I I f" I I D D A D V
Digitized by Got, gle
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 3 4 7
his prcjodice; and this I conceived from the application of the Moon to
a quartile afpeCt with Mars, followed by a conjunction with Venus. It
further appeared to me that his journey would be far from pkafant or
agreeable ;but that on the contrary he would meet with great vexation,
trouble, and difappointment. This is indicated by the M
> on’s unior-
tunate node, or Dragon’s Tail, being pofited in the fifth, or houle of
pleafure and delight, at the fame time that the querent’s figniiicator oc­
cupies the houfe of difappointment and trouble. Hence I perfuadtd
him to poftpone his journey to a future, day, becaufe, if he did go, I was
perfectly fatisfied he would lofe more than he would gain, excluiive of
being difappointed in the principal objeCt of it. He then left me, and
went home with an undetermined mind ; but has fince told me that his
neceffity got the better of his reafon, and therefore b» Avent the journey
contrary to my advice, and found the even*, with^all its contingencies,
exactly as I had preditled them.
Som
em
onths after, hecam
e to m
e again, faying he w
ifhed to take
anotherjourneyonthe fam
ebufinefs; but, asm
yform
er prediction had
foexactlycorrefponded with the event, he w
as now determ
ined toaC
t
implicitly bym
yadvice, andtherefore requefted m
e toerect afigure to
knowwhether therew
ere better hopes'of fuccefs in his'prefent under­
taking than in the form
er. To oblige himI drewout the figure to
theexadtim
eof propofingthe queftion, and, findingthe benevolent af-
pefls all in the qnerent’s~favour, I toldhimhehadnotim
e tolofe; for
that, if hehaftenedaw
ay, fuccefs w
ould crow
n his labours. He went,
met the parties at hom
e, fettled his accounts, and returned with his
pockets full ofm
oney, andhis heart full ofcontentj andafewdaysaf­
terw
ards hethanked m
efor m
yfervices.
Q U ESTIO N VI. On PA TERN A L IN H E R IT A N C E .
. A young gentlem
an inthe navy, whohadbeenrather wild, andw
as
in confequenceunder the difpleafureof his parents, having beenthreat­
enedto bedifinherited, cam
e the inftant he received this unfavourable
news, and enquired of m
ewhether hefliould, or Ihouldnot, enjoyhis
father’seftate. Torefolvehis doubts, I projectedthefigurefollowing.
No. 17. 4 O The
Digitized by G O O Q l e
Original from
kihai v n e v di im 1r 1ib b
u
u
i
i
l
a
m
,
v
ju
u
y
ie
-u
iy
iu
^
tiu
/
MLL|j://wvww.iieiLiiiLiubL.uiy/caLi.ebb_u&e#pu-yuuyie
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The afcendant andits lord reprefent thequerent, and, asA
quaries oc­
cupies thecufpthereof, Saturn is his fignificator.. The father is repre-
fentedby thefourth houfe, andM
ercury, the lord thereof, is his fig­
nificator. The fecondhoufeanditslordfignifiesthequerent’sfubflance;
andthe fifth houfeandits lord the fubflance of his father. Here w
e
findM
ercuryinconjunctionwith Jupiter in the eighth houfe* w
hich:
is thefather’sfourth, and im
plies a fubflantial fortune, particularlyas
the fun is pofited in the fam
e houfe, with m
utual reception betw
een
thetw
ofignificatorsoffubflance; w
herebyit is evident that thefonwill
inherit the father’seflateandfortune.
The conjunction of Jupiter with M
ercury* the father’sfignificator,
is alfoaflrong argum
ent of paternal regard on the fideof the father;
andthereforeI inform
edhimthat there appeared to m
e no doubt but
hew
ouldfucceedtothe eflate of hisaneeftors, providedheaC
tedat all
confiflent with thedutyandobedienceof afon, and w
ould ufe proper
endeavours toregainhis father’s goodwill and forgivenefs, andaimto
bem
oreprudent andcareful infpending his income; for thepofitiono£
z Jupiter
Digitized by Go*.>gle Original from
m c i a i v n p i ^ D i i m ir i i r b a b v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 349
Jupiter declareshimto be regardlefs of m
oney am
ong his com
panions
andacquaintance, andextravagantly generous and good-natured. The
conjuntlion of M
ars with V
enus likew
ifethew
s his defireafter w
om
en,
anddenotes that theyw
ill beacontinual fource of m
isfortune and ex­
pence to him, and w
ill help off pretty faft with his money; but the
polition of the fortunate nodeof the M
oon inhis fecond houfe fuffici-
entlyindicates that hewili haveacom
petent provifionduringlife,
QUESTIONVII. O
naCHANGE of SITUATION.
A perfonhadfom
etimebeenfettledinbufinefs, without m
eetingwith
fom
uchencouragem
ent asheexpected; and, anopportunityofferingof
fettling inthe fam
elineof bufinefsinanother place, hecam
eandrequeu­
edm
yadviceuponthe matter, whether it w
ouldbem
oft tohis advantage
toem
brace the prefent offer, ortocontinue in his form
er fituation. To
fatisfyhiminthis particular, I erected thefollowingfigure.
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
35°
-Leo, beinguponthe cufpoftheafcendant, gives theSunfor theque­
rent’sfignificator; thefourth houfe and its lord represent his prelent
fituation; andthe leventh houfe and its lord the oh;etowhich he has
thoughts of rem
oving. Nowthe Sun, the querert’sfignificator, being
onthe point of leavinga fixedfign, and entering upon a com
m
on fign,
clearly im
plies aftronginclination in the querent totr a v e l, or torem
ove
fromone placetoanother; or rather, that hehadalm
oft determ
ined in
his ow
n m
ind to change his prcl'ent abodefor theone-under contem
­
plation; and, onputting thequeftion tohim, hefranklyconfefledit.
Thefeventh houfehaving nobenevolent afpedt, andSaturn, its lord,
reing pofited in the fixth, indicates afflidtion and prejudice by open
enem
ies, if herem
oved tothe place intended; and that he w
ould fuffer
great lofsandinjury thereby, if he rem
oved. But finding M
ars, lord
of the fourth, intrineafpedt tothe fourth, which reprefents his pre­
fent placeof abode; and V
enus, ladyof the tenth, thehoufe of trade
and profeffion, ftronglydignifiedtherein, andapplying toaT
extileafpedt
ofM
ars, denotes 3nencreafingandprofperous trade tothequerent, pro­
vided he rem
ained in his prefent fituation; which for thefe reafonsI
greatly prefled himtodo. He tookm
yadvice, andhas latelythanked
m
efor it, having alreadyfoundanincrcafeof bufinefs. I toldhimhe
neednotdoubtof{till greater fuccefs; for w
hen theefF
edts ofthe T
extile
afpedt of V
enus andM
ars {hall begin to operate, which w
ill be about
the end of October, as is dem
onftrated bythedegrees betw
een thefe
two fignificators, at which tim
e theyw
ill alfobein am
utual reception,
his encreafe of trade w
ill becom
e m
orevifible; particularly asV
enus,
the principal fignificatrix of bufinefs, w
ill then haveleparatedfroma
conjunction with M
ercury, and w
ill applytoaconjundtionof theSun,
the lordof theafcendant, and thefjgm
hcator of the querent.
QUESTION V III. On CHILD-BEARING .
AladyhavingbeenT
o
m
etim
em
arried, without having any reafonto
fuppofe herfelf pregnant, and beingverydefirous of children, cam
eto
enquire whether Ihefliouldever breed. Having everyreafontobelieve
thequeftionfincereandradical, I tookdoW
nthe precifetim
eoftheday,
anderedtedthis figuretocorrefpondwith it.
No
Digitized by Go< sle Original from
m p u / v n e v d i i m 1r 1 i d d a d v
3 5 *
O F A S T R O L O O a
* ' ][i ' :
No pofition of the planets, perhaps, could be more favourable to the
defires of the querent, than thofe in the above fcheme. As "Libra rifes
upon the afcendant, Venus is lady thereof, and fignificatrix of the que­
rent; and, being pofited in the fifth houfe, in her exaltation, having
the fruitful fign Pifces upon the cufp thereof, is one infalliable proof
that the querent will have children. The Moon, which is the author of
all radical moifture, is feparating from the conjunction of the Sun, the
author of all vital fpirit, and applies to a fextile afpeCt of Jupiter, a be­
nevolent and prolific planet, and from thence forms a conjunction with
Venus, the querent’s fignificator; and then applies to her fortunate node.
From thefe confiderations I hefitated not a moment to inform the que­
rent that fhe would be the mother of a large and numerous offspring.
This is declared by the pofition of Venus in the fifth houfe, which
gives three children ; and, being lady of the afcendant, in conjunction
with the Dragon’s Head, or fortunate node of the Moon, gives three
more. The Moon, being likewife in conjunction with them, adds three
more, and makes the number nine. And, as thefe configurations are
No. 18. 4 P all
r
Original from
ME \hl V r \Q V Dl IDI ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by Google
352 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
all pofitedinthedouble-bodiedfruitful fignPifces, it doublesthe num­
ber, anddeclares there (hall be eighteen children. This judgment is
ftrengthened by Jupiter’s T
extile afpeC
t with the above fignificators,
andtherebyadds tw
om
oretothe number; which induced m
e to in­
formtheladythat (hewouldinall probabilitybethe m
other of twenty
children. . S
t. ' / . • « . »
This isan extraordinary inftance of the pofition of the heavens to
give fruitfulnefs and fecundity, and, what I haverarelyfoundeitherin
genitures or horaryfigures; and, therefore, I w
ouldwi(h the readerto
note, inordertoenablehimtojudgeof otherqueftions of the;likena­
ture, that, ifthelordoftheafcendantbeinthefeventhhoufe, orthelord
ofthefifthinthefirft, or thelordofthefirft inthefifth; or, ifthelord
ofthefifthbein thefeventh, or thelordof thefeventhinthe fifth, or
theM
oon pofitedwith them, or goodplanetsintheafcendant, or with
thelordof the fifth, or fituatedinanyof theangles; thereisnoneof
thefeinftances any fort of doubt but that thelady w
ill conceive. But,
when noneof thefeteftim
oniesconcur, andbarrenfigns or evil planets
occupytheabove-m
entionedplacesof the figure, (he neverhas norever
will conceive. W
hen good and evil planets are prom
ifeuoufiy joined
together, (he m
ay perhaps conceive, and havechildren, but they w
ill
not live, nor fcarcelyevercom
etomaturity.—
But to return:—
thelady
then prefied m
eto informher howlongI thought it m
ight be before
(he (hould conceive with her firft child. To l'atisfyher onthis head,
* I referredtothefigure, andobfervedthe M
oon withinfixdegrees fifty-
onem
inuses ofapartileconjunctionwith Venus, the querent’slignifica-
trix; and, the M
oon being inacom
m
on fign, I com
puted the tim
eto
beat fixw
eeksandtw
odays, and, defiringhertotakenoticeofthetim
e,
had no doubt but (he w
ould foon after have reafon tobelieveherfelf
pregnant. v
' , ;
• * . * t •
It’is not lefs rem
arkable thantrue, that exaC
ilyasI had predictedthe
event turnedout; for thelady, fom
em
onths after, very politely called
tothank m
efor theinform
ationI had given her, anddeclaredhercon­
ception tohavetakenplaceas nearas pofliblefromthe tim
e I hadm
en­
tioned. Duringthisconverfation, (hedefiredm
etoinformherwhether
(hew
asbreedingwithaboyor a girl; and, finding her ferious in the
dem
and, I folvedit bythefollowingfigure.
Here
Original from
M D l A f Vf - I D Lf n i ID I I f " I I D D A D V
Digitized by Got. sle
L
v
u
iiia
m
,
v
j
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
c
u
/
iil
l
|
j
.
/
/
vv
vv
v
v
.iid
u
n
u
ui>L.ui
y
/
a
i
.
i
.
c
a
3
_
u
a
c
#
f
j
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
e
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 353
Here the firft thing to be confidered is the lord of the afcendant,
which fignifies the mother ; and the lord of the fifth, which reprefents
the child ; together with the afpe<fts of the planets to the above fignifi-
cators, and the angles of the figure j and, whether mafculine or femi­
nine •
, and fo judge by the greater teftimonies. In the above figure the
angles are feminine; and the Moon, which is a feminine planet, is:
pofited in a feminine fign, feparating from a fextile afpeft with the Sun
in a fign of the fame nature, and applying to an oppofition with Mars,
lord of the afcendant and fifth, in a feminine fign alfo, at the fame time-
that (he is forming a platic trine with Jupiter, who is alfo pofited in sl
feminine fign; fo that we have five teftimonies that the lady was pregnant
with a girl. And therefore, as there are but three teftimonies in favour o r
a boy, viz. the fextile of Jupiter to Mars, which is mafculine, the fign
upon the cufp of the fifth houfe, which is alfo mafculine, and the lord
of the fifth houfe, which is the fame, I informed the lady (he might reft
perfectly allured of having a girl ; and fo the event proved; for indeed
thefe
Digitized by Google Original from
MCI h
i Vn Df c ' DIIDI Ir I I Q D A D V
354 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
thefe rules have never been known to fail in determining queflions of
this nature.
But, for a more general mode of afeertaining whether a lady be preg­
nant with a boy or girl, take particular notice of the afeendant and its
lord, and of the fifth houfe and its lord; and note whether the figns
wpon their cufps be either Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, or
Aquaries, for thefe figns always import a male ; but, the other fix give
a female. If the lord of the afeendant be in a mafeuline fign, and the
lord of the fifth in a feminine, then have recourfe to the Moon, and, if
fhe applies to a planet in a mafeuline fign, fhe gives a boy; but,! if a fe­
minine, a girl. Always remember that the mafeuline planets are Saturn,
Jupiter, Mars, and the Sun; and the feminine, Venus and th? Moon.
Mercury, as he happens to be pofited either with a mafeuline or feminine
planet, inclines accordingly; but, when he is oriental of the Sun, he is
reputed mafeuline; and, when occidental, feminine.
The querent will fometimes afk how long fhe hath conceived. To
telblve this, have regard to the Moon, the lord of the fifth, and the lord
of the hour, and note which is neareft from the feparation of any planet,
and from what afpedt this feparation was; if from a trine afpedt, fhe is
in the third or fifth month of her conception ; if from a fextile, fhe is
either two or fix months gone; if the feparation was from a quartile,
fhe is in her fourth m onth; if from an oppofition, fhe hath conceived
feven months; but, if from a conjundtion, her conception has been only
one month.
Q U E S T I O N IX. On taking S E R V A N T S .
A merchant of my acquaintance having lately an occafion for an up­
per clerk, to fuperintend a bufinefs of confiderable trull and impor­
tance; and, being recommended to a perfon for this undertaking, of
whofe ability and induflry he was fomewhat in doubt, called to afk my
advice and opinion on the matter, whether he was likely to anfwer his
purpofe or not.
The
Digitized by Gck gle Original from
w c i a / v n o ^ d i i d i i r i i d d a r v
u
u
M
id
ii
i,
u
u
u
y
l
e
-
u
i
y
i
i
i
/
i
e
u
/
ii
tip;//wvvvv.i
ic
ii
m
u
u
b
t
.
u
i
y
/
d
n
_
t
;
b
b
_
u
^
t
;
-
«
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
t
:
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 355
The firft houfe reprefents the querent, and the fixth the quefited.
Venus, who is the querent’s fignificator, is fituated in her own terms;
and Mars, who is fignificator of the fervant, is fituated in her own term
of Jupiter, accompanied with the Part of Fortune, in the eleventh houfe,
which is the houfe of confidence and truft, and of friends and friendfhip;
and is an irrefragable argument of mutual concord and good faith. Mars
is alfo lord of the querent’s fecond, as well as of the fervant’s fixth, and
denotes that great advantages fhall accrue to the mafter by the fervant’s
means; Saturn, in the third houfe, is in partileafpe£t to Mars, and denotes ^
that the dealings which may be conducted by the fervant fhall be very
beneficial, though attended with great labour and difficulty, as is evi­
dently demonftrated by Saturn’s pofition in the fign of Capricorn. The
oppofition of the Sun and Jupiter in a watery fign indicates that fome
little inconveniencies may arife by the fervant’s drinking rather too freely;
but, as the Dragon’s Head, or fortunate node of the Moon, is pofited
in the fourth houfe, which fignifies the end or termination of the bufi-
nefs, it is felf-evident that all matters entrufted to the care and manage-
No. 18. 4 Q_ ment
Digitized by Google Original from
m c i a / \srsD\f n i i d i i r* i i n n an \ y
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
ment of this fervant will terminate to the mailer’s fatisfaCtion and ad­
vantage. I therefore advifed him by no means to hefitate in taking him
into his fervice.
Q U ESTIO N X. On C O U R TSH IP and M A RRIA G E.
A young lady having for fome time received the addreffes of a gentle­
man of fortune, during which a variety of circumftances had occurred
to put off the much-wiihed-for day of confummating their nuptials; and
being alfo in doubt whether her lover had not fome attachment to an­
other lady, who fhared in his affections, and fought for his company,
fhe was induced to come to me for my advice and opinion, whether the
above gentleman was really fincere in his profeflions to her, and whether
their marriage fliould ever be confummated, and when ? Finding her
perfeftly fincere and earneft in her wilhes, and the queftion truly radical,
I gave her my judgment as follows :
la
Original from
m c v m v n o i r d i i q i i r i i d d a d v
D
icjiti. * C o o o l e
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 357
In this figure the Sun is fignificator of the lady ; and Saturn, lord of
the feventh houfe, is fignificator of the gentleman. It mult alfo be ob-
ferved that in this, and in all queltions relative to matrimony. Mars and -
the Sun are the natural fignificators of a woman’s marriage; and Venus
and the Moon are thofe of a man’s. Now Saturn, the gentleman’s figni­
ficator, is remarkably well pofited in the fifth houfe, and has Venus
within his orb, applying to him by conjunction ; which is a very pow­
erful indication that his affections are fincere and honourable, and that
his mind is fully bent to the marriage-ftate. The Sun likewife, being
in a Textile afpeCt with Mars, the lady’s fignificator of marriage, plainly
fhews her inclination to matrimony to be flrongly fixed, and her affec­
tions perfectly fincere.
The next thing to be confidered, is, whether there be any fruflration,
or impediting afpeCt between thefe fignificators; and, I find the Moon
and Venus, the gentleman’s fignificators of marriage, are applying to a
quartile afpeCt with each other. This is an evident proof that the mar­
riage is prolonged by the interference of fome other woman, of this gen­
tleman’s intimate acquaintance, becaufe the afpeCt is made in a feminine
fign ; but as the Moon, in feparating from Venus, applies to a perfiCt
trine with Mars, the querent’s principal fignificator of marriage, and
alfo to a Textile of the Sun, her natural fignificator in the figure, it totally
removes the evil effeCts of the malefic afpeCt, and leaves the path free and
unobftruCted to the gates of Hymen. This opinion is greatly flrengthen-
ed by confidering the mode in which their fignificators are feverally dif­
pofed. Saturn difpofes of the Sun, who is pofited in the term of Venus;
and Venus, Saturn, and the Moon, are all difpofed of by the benevolent
planet Jupiter, who is himfelf difpofed of by Mars, the principal figni­
ficator of this lady’s marriage, and who thus triumphs over every obftacle
to the celebration of their nuptials. I therefore could not hefitate in de­
claring to the lady, in the fulleft and rood fatisfaCtory terms, that the
gentleman who courted her had a fincere and tender regard for her; and
that, though fome circumflances might have happened rather unfavour­
able to her wilhes, yet Ihe might rell perfectly allured that he was the
man allotted to be her hulband.
Apparently well fatisfied with thefe declarations, Ihe proceeded to en­
quire in what length of time this defirable circumftance might come to
pafs. To gratify her wilhes in this particular, I referred again to the
figure, where the Moon, the gentleman’s principal fignificator of mar­
riage, wants upwards of eleven degrees of forming 3 perfect Textile afpeCt
2 with
Original from
M P A / v n e Y Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
Digitized by Google
u
u
i
i
idi11,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
/
i
e
u
/
11LLp:
/
/w
w
w
.
i
idii
n
u
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/c
ie
t
.
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
f
f
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
it
;
358 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
with theSun,(the lord of the afcendant,)and the fame to Mars, her figni-
ficator of marriage; and therefore, by converting the degrees into tmie
by the rule heretofore given, I fixed her marriage at about the end of
three months, alluring her it would not exceed that time. The event
has fully proved the truth of the prediction; the lady and gentleman have
both done me the honour of a call fince the celebration of their nuptials,
and I found they were married precifely at the time I had predicted ; I
have likewife the additional pleafure to find, that my aflurances to the
lady were productive of frelh efteem and clofer attachment to the man of
her heart, and they now live a pattern of conjugal felicity.
Q JL T E S T IO N XI. On W A R and B A T T L E .
During the trial of a certain noble Commander in Chief, at the Go­
vernor’s houfe in Portfmouth, a company of gentleman one day called
upon me, and requefted I would take down the pofitions of the planets
at the time that much-talked-of aCtion commenced, and give them my
judgment upon it, according to the rules of planetary influence. W il­
ling to oblige them in a matter which I conceived could be of no pre­
judice to any party, fince no advantage could be taken from i t ; and alfo
deeming it a fit fubjeCt whereby to manifeft the fublimity and excellence
of this art, I hefitated not to promife them every information in my
power. For this purpofe I ereCled my figure, not to the time this
queftion was propounded, for, it related to an event that had long been
pafied by, and not to any matter that was hereafter expeded to happen
and therefore I projected the fcheme to correfpond with the exaCt time
when this extraordinary aftion commenced, and at which moment the
heavenly bodies were under the remarkable configurations delineated in.
the following fcheme:
The
Digitized by Google Original from
M C \ A / v n p f c ' Dl I DI 1C I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 3 9 5
The afcendant, the Moon and Venus, reprefent the Britilh fleet ;
Mars and Aries denote that of the enemy. The firft thing to be con-
fidered is the afpedt thefe two fignificators bear to one another, which is
a partile Textile, a well-known indication of imperfedt love j and, as it
fhews that Mars and Venus have not in themfelves an inveterate hatred,
fo it imports that the two commanders in chief did not behold each other
in an afpedt of perfedt and direful malignancy and wrath. Venus, lady
of the afcendant, is polited with Jupiter in his fall, a benevolent planet
and a lover of peace; and as he is in this figure lord of the third houfe,
and within fifty degrees of the afcendant, it indicates that both com­
manders have a defire to promote peace, by afting principally upon the
defenfivc, and by guarding and protedting their refpedtive coafts, without
a defire of any clofe or decifive adtion, or of venturing to any great dif-
tance from home.
I
The cool, cautious, deliberate, planet Saturn, is fitua.ed in the firft
houfe, and indicates not fo much a defire for hot and precipitate adtion, *
.No* ib« 4 R
Go gle Original frorr»
I
360 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
as for felf-prefervation, or the protection of national wealth $ and this is
plainly exemplified in the Britifh admiral’s watchfulnefs and care in
covering and protecting the homeward-bound India fleet ; as well as in
the French admiral’s retiring after he found his views upon that rich
and unguarded flota were Completely fruflrated. The pofitioft of Mer­
cury, being combuft of the Sun, and difpofer of the Moon, Venus, and
Jupiter, and lord alfo of the twelfth houfe, the houfe of private enmity
and malice, indicates private rancour and enmity in a fubordinate com­
mander j and, as Mercury is pofited between the two fignificators, Venus
and Mars, evilly dignified, and combuft, fo he denotes the perfon reprc-
fented by him will infallibly be governed by malevolent principles, and
ufe his influence to retard the objeCt of the bufinefs in hand. The truth
of this indication has, I think, been too well eftablifhed to need any fur­
ther illuftration from me*
The enemy, as I have before obferved, is reprcfented by Mars, who
is pofited in the tenth houfe, the houfe of honour, and in the fign of
his triplicity, but in the dignities of Jupiter; and this fhews that the
enemy would as much as poflible avoid clofe aCtion, but would take the
advantage to fhift from fighting; and Mars, being in his fall deprives
the enemy of their honour, and clearly proves, that if a clofe and well-
conneCted aftion had been kept up, and continued without ceafing, a
decifive victory would have followed on the part of the Englifh, becaufe
Jupiter is in conjunction with Venus and the Moon, which difpofes of
M ars; but, as Mars has the watery triplicity afiigned him, he fhews the
enemy fhould take the advantage of that element to run away.
We find alfo, in the above figure, a quartile afpeCt of Saturn and Mer­
cury, a configuration which is always known to produce tempeftuous
weather and ftrong winds, and this we find was the cafe off Ufhant at the
time of the above engagement. The pofition of Mercury in the firft,
where Saturn is fituated, plainly indicates thefe winds to be highly con­
ducive to the fafety of the enemy, but of dangerous tendency to the
Britifh fleet, in cafe of a purfuit.
After duly weighing the natural influences and eflfeCts of the configu­
rations in this figure, which are the true and genuine flate of the hea­
vens at the time of the engagement, I hefitated not to declare, that both
commanders had a ftronger inclination to preferve peace than to break it,
and that a clofe connected and decifive aCtion was not to happen, owing
to Saturn being in the afeendant on the fide of the Englifh, with two
much thought and deliberation; and to Mars being in his fall in the
2 dignities
Digitized by Google Original from
V f l D k ' Dl ID I I r I I R B A B V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 361
dignities of Jupiter, on the part of the French, which declares their
watchfulness to run away. This judgment is likewife further confirmed
by the two principal fignificators not forming a warlike aSpeCt, but ope­
rating by one rather inclined to tranquillity and peace.
Whoever contemplates the preceding figure, and defines its afpefls by
the rules laid down in this or in any other Treatife on Aftrology, will
find no point ftrained to effect the tendency of the foregoing judgment.
The meaning put upon them here is uniform and natural, and no more
than what they are and have been allowed to bear from the earlieft ages,
and fuch as every profeflbr of the art muft allow to be conformant to the
ftridteft rules of the Science, If this be admitted, I think it muft ftrike
the fenfe of every intelligent man, that this pofition of the planets, on
the famous 27th of July, could not have been configurated to deferibe the
particular turns of that aCtion, by mere accident, nor without having
fome influence upon it.— A ftrong proof of planet ary operations* as well
as of the moral certainty of predicting by their means.
Q J J E S T I O N XII. On T H E F T .
Being once on a journey through the Weft of England, and particular
bufinefs detaining me in a fmall town where Some of my friends lived,
an atrocious robbery and burglary was during that time committed in
the neighbourhood, in*the houfe of a poor old blind decrepid man, who,
by hard labour and rigid ceconomy in his younger days, had Saved up
three hundred pounds to divide among his children at his death. This
money was kept in a ftrong cheft by the bedfide where the poor old man
lay; when Some villains, watching an opportunity in the abfence of his
family, made their way into his apartment, broke open the cheft, and
carried off all the money undiscovered. My friends hereupon made it
known that I had Some knowledge of the occult Sciences, and, if applied
to, might poflibly give Some account how the money went; in confe-
quence of which I received a letter the next day from the poor man’s
eldeft Son, earneftly entreating my afiiftance in making a difeovery of
the robbers, and to endeavour to get reftored to his father Some part at
leaft of the little all he had been years labouring to Save up for his chil­
dren. Moved with compaflion at So cruel a circumftance, I determined
to do my utmoft to Serve this diftreffed family, and for this purpoSe pro­
jected the following figure.
The
Digitized by Google Original from
M C I * / V r S D t ' Dl ID I \r I I D
u
u
m
a
i
i
i
,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
l
u
z
e
u
/
1
»vvv
i
.
n
a
i
.
m
u
u
a
i
.
m
y
/g
i->
-g
a
a
_
u
a
e
-)i-
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
u
Thefign Taurus, occupyingthe alcendant, gives Venus for thequerent’s
fignificatrix j the Moon lady of the fourth, reprefents the querent's
father, and the feventh and tenth houfes are to denote the thieves; and
<*he reafon I allot two houfes for them is, becaufe the feventh houfe of
the figure is the natural fignificator of thieves to the querent, who was
heir to part of the money, and had been promifed it by his father, and
confequently bore a (hare in the lofs; and the tenth houfe being the
father’s feventh, reckoned from his firfi, or fourth in the figure, natu­
rally denotes thieves to h im ; and therefore, as the fon is querent, and the
father had the principal (hare in the lofs, both thefe houfes mu/t be well
confidered, before any account can be given of the thieves.
Here I find Jupiter, the lord of the eighth and twelfth houfe, pofited in
the tenth, out of all his eflential dignities, in his fall, and confignifica-'
tor with Mars; wherefore I declared two perfons to be concerned in the
robbery, and described them according to thefe fignificators, viz. a mid­
dle ftaturc, with dark brown hair, pale complexion, of a furly difpo-
» fition
'Digitized by Original from
KYtrt/7 V
//'V t f 76
-*Tm
J
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 363
fltion, one fomewhat fhorter than the other; and appeared to be fons of
a perfon who had worked with or for the querent’s father.
My next bufinefs was to confiderwhat was dorie with the money; and*
as there are two fignificators in refpeft of the queftion, namely, the fe-
venth houfes and their lords, fo there muft be two to reprefent the dif-
pofal of the money; and thefe are the fourth houfes and their lords.
Accordingly I find the Moon, who governs the querent’s fourth houfe,
pofited in Scorpio, a watery fign; and, being alfo underneath the fign, I
declared fome part of the money was buried underneath a rock or ftone
over which the tide flowed, and near the habitation of the thieves/
which I judged was not far diftant from the fea fide. Again, I find Mars
lord of the father’s fourth, pofited in Capricorn, a beftial fign, in con­
junction with Jupiter, who governs corn, and with Saturn, who rules
the fruits of the earth; and, as Mars is the lighter planet, and applies to
Jupiter, and as Jupiter is in the term of Saturn, I concluded that an­
other part of the money had been paid away to fotne hufbindman or far­
mer, who refided about the diftance of eight miles fouth from the place
where the robbers lived.
When thefe circumftances were all thrown together, and each duly
confidered, fufpicion feel upon two pc'for.s, who were brothers, in every
refpeCt anlwering to this defcg'.ion, uod who, upon enqunv, they found
had paid one hundred poo »
• . iu a f.rnu-r three days aiur the robbery
was committed, who lived in the firu t.on above uelrribed, and who
had for fome time threatened the p ;tis with an action, on account of
their backwardness or inability to pay him. Upon t. ia I was afleed, if
the parties were taken up, whether auv of ‘he monev would he recovered?
To anfwer this, I referred again 10 the figure, and noted the fituation
of the two luminaries, both of which .re .fflicted. The.light of time
is pofited in the twelfth houfe, in conjunction with Venus, lady of the
afeendant, and fignificatiix of the queient, which affords one ftrong ar­
gument againft recovering the money. The Moon is alfo greatly afflict­
ed in the fixth houfe, and in no afpett either to the Sun or to the
afeendant, but on the contrary is applying to a trine of Mercury, lord
of the fixth, and this to a Textile of Saturn, lord of the father’s fixth,.
and alfo the fignificators of the two thieves; all which pofitions give the
ftrongeft proofs of an utter impoflibility of recovering any part of the
property, particularly as both the fignificatots of the querent and his
father are greatly affliCted by accidental pofitions, as well a9 by the
part of fortune being in conjunction with the Moon’s unfortunate
No. 18. 4 S node
'*
* Original from
M P W Dl I P I I r I I R B A R V
Digitized by C j OC > Q l0
364
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
node, or Dragon’s tail; wherefore I judged the money lofl; beyond reco­
very.
Many circumftances, however, afterwards concurring, to confirm this
fufpicion of the two brothers above alluded to, they were in confequence
taken into cuftody, and examined before feveral of the county magif-
trates, who found fufficient grounds to commit them for trial at the
next affizes. They were in confequence arraigned; but, though fuf­
picion fell heavy upon them, yet, as no pofitive evidence could be ad­
duced to prove they were caught in the faff, or to identify the money,
they were both acquitted, notwithftanding the long train of well-con­
nected and concurring circumftances, which came out upon the trial, left
them guilty in the eyes of all the court.
A perfon of a free and convivial humour called upon me to enquire con­
cerning a legacy which his wife’s mother had often promifed to leave them
at her death; but, having fome high words, in confequence of his loofe
way of living, (he had lately refeinded her former promifes; and, as this
lay upon his mind, and had vexed him for fome days pad, he was now
defirous to know, by the celeftial intelligencers, whether this legacy
would be left him or not. Finding the man fincere in his wilhes, and,
deeming the queftion perfedlly radical, I proceeded to give my judgment
upon the matter as follows.
Q JJ E S T I O N X III. On L E G A C I E S .
Mercury
Original from
M f u r v n pi*' D i i m i r i i r d a b v
leain,
u
u
u
y
i
c
-
u
i
y
n
i
i
c
u
/
i
i
ll
|
j
.
//
w
v
v
v
v
.
i
ia
l
i
iiu
u
a
i
.
u
i
y/a<_
<_
e
£»
a
_U
ic
tf
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
ic
O F A S T R O t 0 CiY.
f i
Mercury is here lord of the afcendant, and lignificator of the querent;
he is fituated in the feventh houfe, and difpofes of Jupiter, the fignifi-
cator of his wife, who is pofitcd in the fourth, bis own houfe, Itrong
and powerful, and in trine afpedt to the Sun. The Moon’s fortunato
node likewife falls in the wife’s fecond houfe, in fextile afpeft to the part
of fortune in the querent’s fecond; all which are very powerful tefti-
monies that the querent’s wife would not lofe her inheritance. This
opinion is alfo ftrengthened by the pofition of the benevolent planet
Jupiter, who is lord of Pifces and the wife’s lignificator, and lord alfo
of the wife’s tenth, and lignificator of the mother, viz. the fourth houfe
in the figure; which evidently fhews a mutual love and attachment be­
tween the mother and daughter, that nothing but death can efface, and
to which inheritance will follow.
\ # •- -
The querent’s lignificator being in his fall in Pifces, a watery fign,
and in conjunction with Venus, Ihews him to be a man given up to
drinking and conviviality, and perhaps to other fpecies of intemperance,
as
Original from
k i n a * v / A n i / m i n i i r i m n * n v /
366 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
as is denoted by the quartile of Jupiter and Mercury; and farther fliewf
that it has in fome meafure been the means of alienating the wife’s affec­
tions from him. And as Mercury is difpofed of by Jupiter, in a femi­
nine fign, and pofited with a feminine planet, and being alfo controver­
tible in his nature to the quality of any planet he is in configuration
with, plainly manifefts the querent to be of an effeminate mind and fpi-
rit, content to give up all rule and government to his wife, fo he has
but the enjoyment of his friend and his bottle.
The fituation of the Sun and the Dragon’s Head in the wife’s fecond,
or querent’s eighth, denotes that he had heretofore received a legacy by
the death of his wife’s father; which being mentioned, he readily con-
feffed that it was fo. This legacy he appears to have fquandered away,
as is manifefted by the part of fortune being in conjunction with the
Dragon’s Tail in the fecond houfe. And now, taking all the foregoing
afpeCts together, and noting that the Sun, tbe natural fignificator of
fathers, is pofited in his exaltation, with the Moon’s fortunate node,
and free from all fruftation or affliction; and, notwithftanding the que­
rent had fquandered away the firft legacy by the father, and had lately
fallen out with the mother; yet I hefituted not to declare, that, accord­
ing to the belt of my judgment, he would be certain of the legacy by
the mother alfo; not out of any regard or love to him, but purely
through her affedtion and anxioufnefs for the welfare and happinefs of
her daughter.
Q JJ E S T I O N XIV. On the Succefs of a F L E E T .
At the time Admiral Rodney fet fail for the Weft Indies, with a
grand fquadron under his command, and a convoy of above three hundred
fail of merchant fhips, exhibiting at once the pride, the glory, and the
riches, of this great commercial empire, I was applied to by fome naval
gentlemen, who particularly requefted me to give them my opinion on
the fuccefs of the admiral’s expedition, and the fafety of his fleet.
Many opinions had for fome time been in circulation relative to this
equipment, and many of the firft-rate connoifleurs in politics had un­
dertaken to declare it too weak for the object of its deftination, and that
it would fall an eafy prey to the enemy; I was therefore the more readi­
ly prevailed upon to project a figure for this queftion, upon which I de­
livered my judgment as follows.
% The
Digitized by C j O O Q I C
Original from
M c u f v r s o is n i m i ir i i d d a d v
u
u
n
i
d
i
i
i
,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
i
iu
_|
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
w
.
i
i
d
u
iil
i
u
s
l
.
u
i
y
/d
u
_
t
;
b
b
_
u
b
e
^
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
e
OF AS T R OL OGY. 367
^The watery fign Aquaries, falling upon the afcendant, gives Saturn for
the admiral’s fignificator ; and, as Pifces all'o falls intercepted in the
fkft houfe, Jupiter, lord thereof, muft have confignification of all thofe
that accompanied him. The ninth houfe reprefents the voyage, the firft
houfe or afeendant the port or ftation from whence they fet fail, the fe-
venth houfe the quarter to which they are defined, and the lord thereof
denotes the obftacles or enemies they (hall meet with; the fourth houfe
reprefents the completion of the voyage, and the accomplilhment and
termination of the objeCt or bufinefs of the expedition; the whole of
which are to be feparately and diftinCtly contemplated.
Saturn, the fignificator of the commander in chief, is pofited in the
medium cceli, the houfe of perferment and honour; and, being at the
fame time in Sagittarius, a fign of the fiery trigon, and contrary to his
own nature, deferibes him to be a man of a free, generous, and noble,
fpirit, ambitious of glory and applaufe; and, having been lately in con­
junction with the Moon’s unfortunate node, and now in the very degree
of its exaltation, ihews him to have been under great anxiety and dif-
No. 18. 4 T trefs.
Digitized by Goc-gle Original from
ki cmj D i i D i i r i i d r a r v
3 6 3 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
trefs, in regard to his private circumftances. But this affliction appears
only as a dark cloud, which, when the ftorm is over, quickly gives way
to the all-cheering and enlivening beams of the refrefhing Sun. And
this is evinced by the admiral’s fignificator having juft feparated -from
this malignant configuration, and afterwards forming a propitious Textile
afpeit in the zodiac, and a mundane trine afpedt to the fecond houfe, the
houfe of profperity, fortune, and riches, aided by Mars, the lord there­
of, who is fituated in the firft houfe, and in his own triplicity.
In examining thefe Ggnificators, I find Saturn, who reprefents the
admiral, is difpofedof by Jupiter, lord of the tenth houfe, the houfe of
princes, which fhews his appointment came from the king himfelf.
Venus, lady of the enemy’s houfe of fubftance, as well as all the fignifi-
cators of the enemy, and part of fortune alfo, are difpofed of by Saturn,
lord of the afcendant; and Mars, the natural fignificator of war, and
lord of the Britifh admiral’s houfe of fubftance and riches, is pofited
in the afcendant, in trine to Scorpio, his own fign, in the ninth, the
houfe of fea-voyagesj and, being alfo in his own triplicity, fhews that
this voyage (hall be profperous and important. This judgment is greatly
ftrengthened by the pofition of the propitious fixed ftar Fomahaut
in the firft houfe; which, being of the nature of Venus and Mercury,
and of the firft magnitude, and joined with Mars in Pifces, declares
great riches, honour, and preferment, fhould be acquired by this voyage,
and fuch as fhould place the noble commander above the frowns and ma­
lice of both his public and private enemies.
The fign on the feventh houfe, and the intercepted figti Virgo, fhew
the deftination of the fleet; and the Sun and Mercury reprefent the
enemies they fhall meet with; and, as the lord of the feventh is pofited
in a fign that has more planets within its degrees than one, fo it points
out that the admiral fhall be engaged with more fleets than one. Here
is alfo a moil remarkable reception between Venus and Mars in exaltati­
on; Mars being pofited in the fign of the exaltation of Venus, and Venus
in the fign of the exaltation of Mars; and, as Venus is lady of the ene­
my’s houfe of fubftance, this reception declares that the Britifh fleet will
capture many rich and noble prizes, and make great havock with the fub­
ftance or riches of the enemy. Mars being in fextile afpeft with the
part of fortune, and the Sun lord of the feventh, fhews thefe prizes
fhall be taken with much fighting. And that the vidlory fhall declare
itfelf on the fide of the Englifh, is manifefted by Venus, fignificatrix
of the enemy’s fubftance, being difpofed of by Saturn, the lord of the
afcendant, and fignificator of the Britifh admiral.
6 After »
Digitized by G o o g l e
Original from
MCVA/ v n R k ' Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
OF AS T R OL OGY. 369
After duly weighing the probable tendency of all thefe propitious
afpedts, and reflecting that the Moon, whofe influence is conliderable,
is pofited in the dignities of Saturn; and, that Jupiter and Saturn difpofe
of all the planets in the figure; and, likewife that Jupiter and Saturn
are the grand fignificators of the British admiral and fleet, I boldly af­
firmed this expedition would prove fortunate and fuccefsful, crowning
its commanders, and all under them, with honour, glory, and riches,
and adding immortal fame to the annals of the Britifh page. This is a
fad! that has accordingly happened, and fuch as comes within the cogni­
zance of every individual.
Q U ESTIO N XV. On PLACES and PR EFER M EN TS.
A gentleman who had for fome time been foliciting for promotion in
the army, and having met with feveral unpleafant rebuffs, which made
him almofl defpair of fuccefs, came to afk my opinion whether, if he
perfevered in his folicitations, he fhould eventually obtain the preferment
he fo much defired. I gave m y judgment of this queftion from the fol­
lowing figure.
Here
Original from
M P u r v n o k ' D i m i 1r 1 i d d a d v
Digitized by G
o<. sle
37o A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Here the celeftial Crab afcends upon the horofcope, and the Moon,
fignificatrix of the querent, is pofited in the fign Leo. The tenth houfc
bears fignification of the querent’s honour and promotion ; and the ele­
venth denotes his friends and patrons. The Moon, lady of the afcend-
ant, being pofited in the fecond houfe, out of all her effential dignities,
declares the querent to be in diftrefled circumftan^sjj and that his failure
hitherto has been greatly owing to the want of iftoney. -His patrons in
the prefent bufinefs are defcribed by Venus, who being pofited in the
fign Pifces, in every degree of her exaltation, thews them to be of fuf-
ficient weight and intereft to accomplifh his defires; and, as Venus is
alfo in a propitious Textile afjped with Mars, and in trine to the afcen-
dant, it indicates that his petition (hall be attended to, and his withes
gratified.
This judgment is abundantly confirmed by the following confidera-
tions. The Sun is pofited in the medium cceli, the houfe* of his ex­
altation; and the fortunate node of the Moon is conjoined with him
in the tenth alfo, which is an irrefragable argument of honour and pre­
ferment. It is alfo to be obferved, that the Sun is lord of the fecond
houfe, and difpofes of the Moon, the querent’s fignificatrix: and thus
fhews that his preferment fhould be in the military line. And as a
watery fign rifes upon his afeendant, and occupies the cufp of his ninth
houfe, and as Mercury, lord of his third houfe, is pofited in his ninth,
it declares he fliall be l'ubjed: to an employment upon water; and, being
in Scorpio, a fixed fign, denotes the querent fhall be fobject to a long
continuance upon the water, and at a great diftance from home. Venus
being likewife in the fame fign, in the triplicity of Mars, and Mars in
the triplicity of Venus, and in Textile afped of each other, denotes he
fhall hereafter meet with a number of friends, and prove remarkably
fortunate in his port. 1 his poft is reprefented by the lituation of the
Moon in Leo, and Mars in Taurus, and the Sun in Aries, to be a com­
mand on-board fhip, over foldiers or marines; and this he acknowledged
was what he had been foliciting for, and what I told" him he would cer­
tainly fucceed in.
He then requefted me to afeertain the length of time in which I fup-
pofed this command would be given him. I took notice of the degree
the Moon was in, and what application fhe had made. I obferved fhe
had lately been in trine afped of the Sun, which flrongly prompted the
querent to pufh forward for promotion; and her next application, being
to a trine with her fortunate node, declares this promotion fhall be
very fhortly attained, though with difficulty, becaufe fhe is at the fame
2 time
Digitized by Goi gle Original from
v n e t ' Dl ID I Ir I I D R A D V
O P : A S T R O L O G Y , 371
time forming a quartile afpeCt with Mars, which fhews that fome per-
fon of confequence is endeavouring to exclude him, in order to make
way for another perfon. I further informed him that the men under
his command would prove faithful and obedient; and that he himfelf
would be fortunate and fuccefsfui in executing his commifiion, and gain
confiderable honour and applaufe. The truth of this prediction was
very foon after exemplified in the rapid progrefs the querent made in
all the acquirements of honour and profpcrity, and I have frequently had
the pleafure of receiving his thanks for the information I gate him on
the above occafipn.
QU EST ION XVi: On I MP RI SONMENT.
A perfoa of cred.it, during- the- late War, being taken up on fufpicion
of giving private information to the enemy, or of aiding and aflifting in
fuch a traiterous comefpondence, was committed for trial at the enfuing
afifizes j and his wife, under all the horrors of diftrefs and affliction, came
to enquire of me how the matter would terminate, whether her bulband
would fuffer. death, or be acquitted of the crime laid to his charge.—
The anxiety of the poor woman was a fufficient proof of the fincerity
of her defire; and therefore, having taken down the precife time of the
day, I eredted the following fcheme to refolve the queftion :
No. 19. 4 U Sagittarius
Digitized by C j O O Q I C
Original from
MC1A/ V f l D t ' DIIQI Ir I I D P A D V
372 A N I L L U S T R A T l O N
Sagittarius being upon the cufp of the afeendaht, Jupiter is lord
thereof, and the querent’s fignificator. Gemini defeends on the cufp
of the feventh, and gives Mercury as fignificator of the hulband; the
twelfth houfe fignifies the prifon, and the prifoner’s profecutors the
tenth houfe and its lord denotes the judge \ and the fourth houfe de­
clares the trial, or termination of the matter. • J
i '
Now Mercury, the lord of the feventh houfe, and fignificator of the
hufband, is pofited in the twelfth, the houfe of imprifonment, and is
difpofed of by Mars, the fignificator of private enemies, who is pofited
in the tenth houfe or medium.cceli, vyhich here fignifies the houfe of
juftice and mercy. The afeendant denotes the prifonerV open enemies
or accufers j and, as Jupiter is pofited therein, ftrong, and in conjunction
of Saturn, lord of the fecond, it (hews his profecutors are perfons of
rank and power, who are pofiefiTed of every ability to carry on the profe-
cution againft him. The Moon, lady of the houfe of death, being in the
fourth, in trine to the afeendant, (hews that the accufation or indict­
ment is of fuch a nature as threatens the prifoner’s life. But, finding the
Dragon’s tail in the tenth, arid the part of fortune in the fixth, difpofed
of by Venus, and at the fame time in oppofition to Mercury, the pri­
foner’s fignificator, I was clearly of opinion that the diftribution of
money among thofe who appeared to be his friends, would greatly
tend to fave his life, and facilitate-jbis enlargement.
Finding the Moon, lady of the eighth houfe of the figure, pofited
in the fourth, and going to an oppofition of Mars and Venus, I hereby
imagined the prifoner would run a great hazard of his life in attempting
to efcape out^of prifon, by being fired upon j aj»d this I found after­
wards happened, though no further mifehief enfued. I next confidered
the application of the Moon, after her feparatiori^froin the above afpedts,
and I find her going to a propitious trine afpedt with Jupiter, the figni­
ficator of his enemies, and from thence applying to an oppofition of the
Sun, and to a fign of Saturn j and as Saturn is lord 'of. his eighth
houfe, and the Moon lady of his fecond, I judged that he*$ioqld efcape
the hand of juftice, by being admitted an evidence, whicn in the courfe
of a few months afterwards really happened, to the prefervation of his
own life, and to the deftrudlion of that of his accomplice. it
Thus have I given fufficient examples of the verity and utility of
Aftrology in the queftionary way j which, though.not of fo much im­
portance, nor always attended with fo much certainty, as the genethlia-
cal, yet it is not to be wholly difregarded, fince in many cafes, as we have
abundantly
Digitized b
>
Google Original from
m e m / v n o ir di i qi i r i i b b a d v
OF A S T R O L O G Y 3 7 3
abundantly (hewn, it may fafcly be relied on. I fhall therefore difmifs
this part of the fcience, with once more obferving, that horary queftions
fhould never be made ufe of when the querent’s nativity can be had;
as fo much more certainty depends upon the one than upon the other,
and of courfe affords greater fatisfadtion to every perfon who bends his
mind to the knowledge of futurity.
Before I enter upon the management of nativities, it will not be im­
proper, in this place, to give the rules, by which the reader may be
enabled to afcertain the kind of perfon each planet reprefents, when fig-
nificator, in all or any of the twelve figns of the zodiac. By the help of
thefs, it is eafy to determine what kind of perfon the new-born babe
will be, when it arrives to years of maturity • and we can alfo, by the
fame means, as truly defcribe the ftature, complexion, make, and dif­
pofition, of a perfon we never faw, provided the true time of birth be
previoufly known. Thefe rules are therefore abfolutely neceffary to be
well underftood by every perfon who is deflrous of calculating a nativity.
PERSO N S defcribed by SA TU RN in the TW ELV E SIGNS of
the ZODIAC.
Saturn in the lign A rie s reprefents a perfon of a frefh ruddy com­
plexion, fpare, and large boned, full face, deep voice, dark hair, with
little beard j addidted to felf-commendation and praifej and given to
boafting of valour and courageous undertakings, when there is but little
caufej being generally a contentious quarrelfome bravado, and confe-
quently very ill-natured.
Saturn in Taurus defcribes an uncomely perfon, of a heavy, lumpifh,
aukward, appearance, with dark hair, rough fkin, middling ftature, of
a rugged uneven difpofition, inclinable to vicious and fordid adtions,
unlefs the*£ortunate ftars, by their propitious rays, modify and temper
this otherwife baneful influence.
Saturn in G em ini reprefents a perfon of a moderately tall ftature, .of a
dark fanguine complexion, oval vifage, and well proportioned body, the
hair either dark brown or black. The native is generally very ingenious,
but unfortunate in molt of his undertakings; his difpofition ia naturally
perverfe, felfifh, and crafty, and therefore warily to be dealt with.
Saturn in Cancer denotes one of a weak and infirm conftitution of
body, of a thin middling ftature, rather ill-proportioned, and fometimes
i crooked j .
Digitized by Google Original from
M P \ A / V r ^ D V DI I D I I r I I D D A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
crooked ; a pale meagre countenance, fad brown hair, and languid eyes;
of a morofe and jealous difpofition, leaning to vicious inclinations, and
very deceitful in his dealings. /
Saturn in L eogives a perfon of a moderate large flature, broad round
fhoulders, wide chefl, light brown hair, of a furly auflere afpefl, ra­
ther lean, and hollow-eyed, large bones and mufcles, and bends or
floops forward in going. The qualities of the mind and difpolition are
tolerably good, and carry an appearance of noblenefs and generofityj
though fomewhat paflionate, and eager of revenge, but neither courage­
ous nor valiant when put to the teft.
Saturn in Virgo reprefents a perfon of a tall fpare body, fwarthy com­
plexion, dark brown or black hair, and much of it j a long vifage, and
folid countenance, but generally an unfortunate perfon, much inclined
to melancholy, and retaining anger long j a projeftor of many curio­
sitie s to little purpofe; fludious, fubtle, and referved j and, unlefs fome
\ th e r configurations of the planets contradidl, is too much addicted to
pilfering and indiredl dealing.
Saturn in L ib ra deferibes a perfon above the middle flature, tolerably
handfome, brown hair, an oval face, a large nofe and forehead, a mode­
rately clear complexion, yet not beautiful; not willing to entertain low
or mean thoughts of themfelves, fomewhat prodigal in expcnces, and
conlequently rarely leave any confiderablc eftate behind them for their
children to enjoy j they are eafily moved to controvcrfy and debate, and
often come off vidiors.
Saturn in Scorpio reprefents a perfon of a middling flature, a fquare
thick well-fet body, broad fhoulders, black or dark hair, and ufually
fhort and th ick ; very quarrelfome and contentious, delights to create
mifehief, and to promote violent and dangerous adtions, though to his
own detriment and infelicity.
Saturn in S a g itta riu s ufually gives a full flature, brown hair, the
body very conformable and decent, the complexion not much amifs; a
difpofition fufficiently obliging, not courteous, but moderately frugal,
rarely profufe, but fomewhat choleric, and by no means able to bear
an affront, yet willing to do good to all, and fometimes too apt to com­
ply, and rafhly make fuch promifes as cannot conveniently be performed
without prejudice; a real lover of his friend, and merciful to an enemy.
Saturn
O
riginal from
K\C\lil Dl ID I I r I ID R A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 375
Saturn in C apricorn perfonates a lean raw-boned perfon, with dark
brown or black hair, a rough Ikin, a middle ftature, rather inclined to
brevity than tallnefs, an obfcure fallow complexion, little eyes, long
vifage, and an ill pofture in going ; for the qualities of the mind, Sa­
turn fo pofited, and fignificator, ufually gives a difcontented, melan­
choly, peevilh, perfon, covetous of his goods of this life, not addicted
to ufe many words, a lover of the earth, and all things of profit pro­
duced from thence, fearful, fubject to retain anger, and rarely wants a
reafonable portion of gravity.
Saturn in A qu aries reprefents a full ftature, a large head and face, the
body rather inclinible to corpulency than otherwile, dark brown hair,
and a clear complexion, a fober graceful deportment, very affable and
courteous, of an excellent fearching fancy, and generally a very happy
proficient in what he labours after, whether in fciences or curious arts;
apt to conceit and think well of his own powers and abilities, and
therefore fubjedt to no ill-becoming pride j but naturally a perfon of a
very pregnant genius.
Saturn in Pifcesreprefents a perfon of a middle ftature, pale complex­
ion, with hair tending to blacknefs, a large head, and a full eye, fome-
times the teeth diftorted, not very comely, yet aftive, and too much in­
clined to difiimulation, contentious, malicious, and prone to many ill
aflions* which abate as the perfon grows in years ; not loquacious,
but very deliberate ; in fine, it denotes an uncertain fickle perfon in moft
things, one that is able to prefent a good outfide, but will prove in the
end fradulent and deceitful, and therefore warily to be confided in.
PERSONS reprefented by JU P IT E R in each of the T w e lv e S ig n s.
Jupiter in A rie s defcribes a middle-ftatured perfon, of a ruddy com­
plexion, with light brown or flaxen hair, quick and piercing eyes, a
high nofe, and fometimes pimples in the face, an oval vifage, the body
rather lean than corpulent j but generally a perfon of a noble and free
difpofition, one that loves a good outfide, and to demean himfelf with
much generofity amongft his friends and affociates, and confequently
very obliging and complacent.
Jupiter in T aurus gives a perfon of a middle ftature, well fet, a fwar-
thy complexion, brown rugged hair, fomewhat curling or frizzled, a
well-compa<fted body, but not decent, the difpofition reafonably good.
No. 19. 4 X the
Digitized by G ( X
O
riginal from
MPWi/ V f i D t ' Dl ID I Ir I I D B A B V
376 A In I L L U S T R A T I O N
the judgment found, and a perfon of no contemptible .deportment; a
lover of the female fex, and generally good-natured, and free to fuch
objefts as deferve charity and compaflion.
Jupiter in G em ini reprefents a decent well-compofed body, with fan-
guine complexion, not very clear, a perfon above a middle ftature, rather
tall than otherwife, brown hair, full becoming eyes, a graceful deport­
ment, very affable and courteous, a gentle, mild, obliging, perfon, an
admirer of the female fex, efpecially thofe of the moll refined wit and
beauty, a general lover of learning; but, if Jupiter be near violent fixed
liars, it renders the perfon ralh and unftable in his adtions, and confe-
quently inimical to himfelf, and unacceptable to others.
Jupiter in Cancer gives a perfon of a middle ftature, a pale, unwhole-
fome, fickly, complexion, flefhy, or inclinable to corpulency, dark
brown hair, an oval face, and the body moftly difproportioned ; a bufy
loquacious perfon, too apt to intermeddle with other men’s affairs, con­
ceited and high, has no mean thoughts of his own abilities, a great lover
of women ; fortunate by water, and delights to be thereon, and yet a
perfon of very little courage or valour, unlefs his fignificator be well
beheld of Mars.
Jupiter in L eo reprefents a ftrong well-proportioned'body, tall of fta­
ture, light brown or yellowilh curling hair, ruddy complexion, full
eye, and a perfon fufficiently comely; in difpofition very noble minded,
courageous, magnanimous, lofty ; delighting in valiant warlike adtions
and atchievements he proves a terror to his enemies, and a perfon that
fcorns to bend to an adverfary, but will encounter with any danger or
hazard for the fake of honour.
Jupiter in V irgo gives a perfon of a reafonable full ftature, brown
hair tending to blacknefs, ruddy complexion, but not fair or clear, a
well-built perfon, and one we term handfome, having a due proportion
and conformity in all the members; in difpofition fomewhat choleric,
and ambitious of honour, inclinable to boafting, ftudious, yet covet­
ous, and through rafhnels fubjedt to Ioffes in eftate ; in fine, not eafily
wrought upon by any perfon.
Jupiter in L
i
b
r
ap
erfonates a compleat body and inviting countenance,
a moft clear complexion, a full eye, an upright ftature, rather tall than
otherwife, not grofs but flender, an oval face, light brown hair, fome-
times
Digitized by G O O Q l C
O
riginal from
M C U l / V n D k ' Dl IR I i r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 377
times flaxen, fubjedt to pimples in the face; of a very mild difpofition
and winning behaviour, a great delighter in noble exercifes and recrea­
tions, obliging to all perfons $ and confequently gains much honour
and efteem.
Jupiter in Scorpio reprefents a perfon of a middle ftature, a well com­
pacted body, brown hair, a full fldhy face, a dull complexion ; but,
in difpofition, a lofty, proud, ambitious, perfon ; one that defires and en­
deavours to bear rule over his equals, refolute, and ill-natured, cove­
tous, and guilty of too much fubtlety in all his adtions ; and therefore
ought warily to be dealt with by thofe who (hall be concerned with
fuch a perfon.
Jupiter in S agittariu s gives an upright tall ftature of body, chefnut-
coloured hair, oval face, ruddy complexion, much beard, a good eye,
a perfon every way decently compofed ; in difpofition very courteous
and affable, of a moft noble graceful deportment and behaviour, juft in
all his adtions, and injurious to none, generally a great lover of horfes ;
and, in fine, a moft accomplifhed perfon, deferving commendation and
more than ordinary refpect from all perfons with whom he converfes and
affociates.
Jupiter in C apricorn gives a mean ftature of body, a pale complexion,
thin face, little head, not much beard, a fmall weakly perfon generally,
yet ingenious; brown hair, fometimes the beard lighter of colour than
the hair of the head; in qualities and conditions not very commendable,
low-fpirited, peevifh, not very active nor fortunate in the world, unlefs
fome other teftimonies aflift ; in fine, a very helplefs, indigent, harm-
lefs, perfon.
Jupiter in A qu aries perfonates a middle ftature, brown hair, indif­
ferently well fer, a clear complexion, rather a corpulent body than
otherwife, and well compadted; in difpofition chearful and affable, hurt­
ful to none, but obliging to all, delights in decent and moderate recrea­
tion, very juft and merciful, even to thofe that are enemies; in fhort,
a very good-humoured, laborious, induftrious, perfon, rarely guilty of
any extravagance, but generally of a very commendable difpofition and
deportment.
Jupiter in Pifces deferibes a perfon of a middling ftature, of a dark
complexion, flefhy body, and light brown hair, a harmlefs creature, yet
1 ftudious
Digitized by Go*.>sle Original from
M P l / i f V r i D t ' Dl I P I I r I I P D A P V
37j» A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
ftudious in profound matters, and endowed with very excellent natural
parts and acquirements, fortunate upon the water, and one that gains
love from thofe he hath converfation with, fometimes proves a reafon-
able good friend, and delights in good company, if the Moon dart her
quartile or oppofite afpedls.
Jupiter ufually fignifies good teeth, as Saturn doth the contrary, and
fometimes produces fome apparent mark in the fore-teeth ; Jupiter, ill
an airy fign, gives broad fore teeth j in a fiery fign, crooked, or dif-
torted; in an earthy fign, foul teeth j but, in a watery fign, the teeth
decay fuddenly, and grow black and rotten ; and this the more certain
if Jupiter be in any bad afpeft of Saturn or Mars, or in conjunction
with the Dragon’s tail.
When Jupiter is fignificator, and pofited in a watery fign, the perfon
is fat and comely j in an airy fign, more ftrong and corpulent, with a
decent comelinefs and proportion of body ; in an earthy fign, a well-
compofed body, not fatnor lean, but a mediocrity, provided he has not
much latitude, and in no afpedt with other planets; but, if in a fiery fign,
the body is rather fquare than corpulent. If Jupiter be fignificator, and
pofited in a watery fign, the perfon has fome impediment in his fpeech,
or fpeaks with great deliberation ; this is the more certain, if in quartile
or oppofition to Mercury.
PERSONS deferibed by MARS in each of the TW E LV E SIGNS.
Mars in A rie s reprefents a perfon of middle ftature, of a fwarthy
complexion, well fet, large bones, light hair, or fometimes red and cur­
ling, and auftere countenance $ if Mars he occidental, the complexion is
more ruddy and the body more fmooth j if oriental, the perfon is taller of
ftature, and the complexion not fo fwarthy, and it readers the native
mbre comely and valiant ; in difpofition. Mars in Aries ever (hews a bold,
confident, undaunted, perfon, choleric, lofty, defirous to bear rule over
others, and fcorns to fubjefl himfelf to any perfon ; a true lover of war,
and often gains preferment and great advancement thereby.
Mars in T aurus gives a middle-ftatured perfon, well fet, rather fliort
than tall, pretty corpulent, of no clear complexion, brown or black rug­
ged hair, a broad face, wide mouth, generally a well-fet body, fometimes
ruddy, and marked in the face; it reprefents a profligate perfop* one that
gives himfelf much liberty in all manner of vicious a&ions, as gaming,
drinking,
Digitized by Google Original from
M P A / V f i R t ' Dl I P I I r I I P P A P V
OF A S T R O L O G Y , 379
jin k in g , wenching, c. and, in fine, a very treacherous, debauched,
ilUnatured, unfortunate, perfon, unlel's the fortunes interpofe their
friendly rays. If Mars be near the Pleiades, this defcriptiou is ag­
gravated.
Mars in G em ini perfonates a reafonably tall ftature, black or brown
hair; the beginning of the fign gives it lighter; if- it falls near Alde-
baran, the complexion is tending to fanguine, the body well proporti­
oned, and the members conformable, but a very unfettled perfon in
mod: of his adlions, yet ingenious in many things, though unfortunate
in all; and generally lives in fome mean condition, Shifting here and
there, exercifing his wits for a livelihood.
Mars in Cancer gives a (hort perfon, of bad complexion, brown frair,
and much of i t ; a difproportioned body, fometimes crooked, and the
condition of the mind for the mod: part as crooked ; a dull fottifh per­
fon, of few or no commendable actions, unfortunate, always engaged
in fome fervile or mean employment, and is rarely capable of better.
Mars in L eo gives a ftrong able-bodied perfon, of a fun-burnt com­
plexion, tall, with light flaxen hair, large limbs, and great eyes; a hafly
choleric perfon, whofe paflion too often overfways his real'on; delights
in warlike exercifes, as (hooting, riding, fighting, &c. but naturally a
noble generous free-fpirited perfon, efpecially to fuch as obferve him,
and endeavour to oblige him.
Mars in V irgo give a middle-flatured well-proportioned body, black
or dark brown hair, the complexion fwarthy, and fometimes a fear or
blemi(h in the face; a hafly revengeful perfon, too fubjefl to paflion,
and apt to retain an injury a long time in his memory; very humourfome
and difficult to be pleafed, conceited, but generally unfortunate in all
or mod; of his aftions.
Mars in L ib ra gives a well proportioned body, fomewhat tall, light
brown hair, oval face, and fanguine complexion, a brifk chearful af-
pe&, a lover of the female fex, conceited of his own abilities, inclin­
able to boafting, delights in noble recreations, loves neatnefs in his ap­
parel, and is generally beloved o f women, but often to his prejudice.
Mars in Scorpio gives a well-fet middle ftature, black curling hair,
broad face, corpulent body, and fwarthy complexion j in difpofition a
No. 19. 4 Y very
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
MC\AJ V n D l ' DIIDI Ir I IP B A R V
u
u
m
a
i
i
i
,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
e
u
/
u
i
L
f
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
v
v
.
i
i
c
i
u
n
u
u
s
l
.
u
i
y
/
c
n
_
L
e
b
b
_
u
i
f
c
;
-
w
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
3 S0 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
very ill-humoured perfon, pafiionate, quarrelfome, unfociable, rafti, re­
vengeful, and ungrateful ; but, notwithftanding his ill-nature, he has
fome good qualities intermixed with them ; a perfon of quick and rea­
dy apprehenfion, and becomes excellent in any thing his active fancy
leads him to the infpeCtion of.
Mars in S a gittariu s gives a tall perfon, with a well proportioned body
neatly compared, fanguine complexion, brown hair, oval vilage, quick
eye, a perfon of a large heart, and of a choleric hafty difpolition, yet
a chearful, merry, jovial, companion, adtive, courageous, loquacious, de­
lights in neatnefs, and loves to hear himfelf applauded by others, and
is in fine of no contemptible humour or temper.
Mars in Capricorn gives a mean ftature, a lean body, an ill complexion,
and black lank hair, a thin face, little head, but an ingenious perfon, and
of a reafonably good difpofition, a penetrating fancy, and generally very
fortunate and happy in moft of his undertakings.
Mars in A qu aries defcribes one of a well compofed body, reafonably
corpulent, reddifh or fandy-coloured hair, a moderately clear complexion,
middle ftature, but of a turbulent fpirit, too much addicted to contro-
verfy, many times to the detriment of body and eftate, if other tefti-
monies do not occur.
Mars in Pifces gives a mean featured perfon, rather fhort and flefhy
than otherwise, no handfome body nor good complexion, a light brown
or fair flaxen hair, a fottifh kind of debauched perfon, very dull and
ftupid, yet a lover of women, a mere diftembler, an idle companion,
not a friend to himfelf or others.
If Mars be in conjunction, quartile, or oppofition of Saturn, or with
the Dragon’s tail, and they in angles, then the native is more fierce and
violent ; in fiery figns he is choleric and hafty, and many times hath a
falling in of the cheeks; in other figns the face is more full and flefhy;
Mars in earthy figns renders the native of a fullen temper, not courte­
ous or affable ; in airy figns, more free and obliging; in watery figns,
fomewhat ftupid and fottifh, unlefs he be well beheld of Jupiter, Sol,
or Luna; their friendly afpeCts do fomething meliorate the aforefaid
fignifications, which muft be warily confidered by the ingenious artift
in his judgm ent; as alfo the nature of thofe fixed ftars that are joined
to the particular fignificators.
3 PERSO N S
Digitized by Goosle O
riginal from
M P A / v n c t ' di m i 1r 1 m o a d v
OF A S T R O L O G Y , 381
PERSONS defcribed by the M OON in each of the TW ELV E SIGNS.
The Moon in A ries defcribes a perfon of an indifferent ftature of
body, a round face, light brown or flaxen hair, reafonably corpulent or
flefhy, and a moderately good complexion j in difpofition a mutable
perfon, rafh and paflionate,.ambitious of honour, and of an afpiring
fancy, but rarely fortunate, or at lead continues but a fhort time in fuch
a condition.
The Moon in 'Taurus gives a well compofed body, of a middle ftature,
rather inclinable to brevity, a corpulent ftrong body, of no clear com­
plexion, brown or black hair ; a perfon of a gentle difpofition and
obliging temper, of fober carriage and deportment, juft in all his ac­
tions, and confequently gains refpeCtfrom all perfons he converfes with;
and alfo eafily attains preferment in the world, fuitableto his degree and
quality of birth.
The Moon in G em ini perfonates a well compofed body, and tall,
brown hair, good complexion, not fanguine or pale, but between both ;
the members well proportioned, and the body very upright and comely;
the difpofition not commendable, but rather offenfive ; an ingenious,
fubtle perfon, remarkably crafty, yet generally unfortunate, unlcfs other
teftimonies aflift.
The Moon in Cancer reprefents a middle ftatured perfon, well pro­
portioned and flefhy, a round full face, brown hair, pale dufkifh com­
plexion ; in difpofition flexible, jocular, and pleafant ; often addicted to
good fellowfhip, very harmlefs, and generally well beloved ; fortunate
in mod affairs, yet mutable and uncertain in his refolvcs, but free from
paffion or rafh a&ions.
The Moon in L eo denotes a perfon fomewhat above a middle ftature*
a well proportioned body, ftrong and large boned, fanguine complexion#
light brown hair, full faced, large eyes; in difpofition a lofty, proud*
afpiring perfon, very ambitious of honour, defirous to bear rule over
others, but abhors fervitude or fubjeCtion, and rarely proves a fortunate
perfon.
The Moon in V irgo fignifies a perfon fomething above the middle fta­
ture, brown or black hair, an oval face, fomething of a ruddy complex-
ioa^ in difpofition an ingenious perfon, melancholy, very referved, co­
vetous, unfortunate, and rarely performs any commendable atlion.
The
O
riginal from
M C \ M v r * D V DI ID I i r I I D D A D V
$ 3 3 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The Moon in L ib ra fignifies a well compofed body, neatly comp2<ft-r
ed, moderately tall of ftature, fmooth light brown hair, and fanguine
complexion mixed with white ; the difpofition no lefs pleafant, a very
jocund perfon, a lover of mirth and recreation, as alfo very well refpedted
of the female fex in general. If a woman, fhe will be admired, or at
leaft courted by many lovers; yet fubjedt to misfortunes, unlefs Venus
be well placed, and in good afpedt to the Sun, Moon, or Jupiter.
The Moon in Scorpio reprefents an ill-fafhioned perfon, thick and
fhort, flefhy, and of a very obfcure complexion, brown or black hair,
and in fhort a very ill-difpofed perfon, and rarely qualified with any
good hum ours; fottifh, malicious, and treacherous, unlefs alleviated
with good education, or the Moon be in fome good afpedt of the fortunes ;
If a female, fhe rarely lives free from fevere cenfure, and not without
defert, except the Moon be befriended by fome benevolent configuration
of good planets.
The Moon in S a g itta riu s gives an handfome well proportioned body,
an oval face, bright brown hair, and fanguine complexion ; a generous
free-fpirited perfon, paffionate for a fhort time, ambitious, aiming at
great things, and generally of an obliging temper, and confequently
gains refpedt of fuch perfons as he or fhe alfociates with.
The Moon in C apricorn fignifies a perfon of a low flature, and of- an
ill complexion, a fpare thin body and face, brown or black hair; fome-
times a defedl or weaknefs in the knees, and at beft no ftrong bodied
perfon; one of fmall activity or ingenuity; inclinable notwithfland-
ing to debauchery and mean aftions, which renders him a perfon of
but low efteem; yet if the Moon receives the friendly rays of Jupiter,
the Sun, or Venus, from good places of the figure, the difpofition is
thereby much corrected.
The Moon in A qu arics gives a perfon of a middle flature, not tall nor
fhort, but between both ; the body well proportioned, but rather cor­
pulent, brown hair, and clear fanguine complexion ; an ingenious
perfon, of a very affable courteous difpofition, inoffenfive to all, loves
curious and moderate recreation, apt for invention, which confequently
ihews an adtive fancy, a pregnant brain, and is rarely guilty of any un­
worthy adtion.
Th*
Original from
M C l f d v n u t ' D I ID I I r I I D D A D V
The Moon in Pifcesdefcribes a perfon of a mean or low ftature o
body, and the complexion rather pale than otherwife, the hair a bright
brown, the body plump or fat, a perfon not much delighting in a t ion,
unlefs thofe of the worft kind, and unfortunate in moft undertakings,
neither good for himfelf or others j the difpofition may be fomewhat
meliorated, provided the Moon be pofited in a good place of the figure,
and in afpett with good and adjuvant planets, which mud alfo be con-
fidered of all the planets in their particular fignifications, efpecially of
the difpofitions and qualities of the mind, throughout all the twelve
figns.
PERSONS represented by VENUS in each of the T welve Signs.
Venus in A ries gives a middle ftature, rather flender than grofs bo­
died, light hair, and ufually fome marks or fears in the face ; a good
complexion, but generally a very unfortunate penfive perfon, neither
lucky to himfelf or to any other he has concerns with ; the reafon is be-
caufe Venus receives her detriment in Aries.
Venus in Taurus gives a comely perfon, of mean ftature, a ruddy com­
plexion, but not clear, brown hair, and plump body, not grofs, but de­
cently compofed, a mild-tempered perfon, of a winning difpofition,
fortunate in moft of his adlions ; injurious to none, but rather obliging
to all, thereby gaining a general refpedt from moft perfons he con-
verfes with.
Venus in G em ini ufually gives a perfon above a middle ftature, reafon-
ably tall, a flender, well-compofed, ftrait, body, brown hair, and a mo­
derately clear complexion ; in difpofition a good-humoured loving perfon,
very liberal to fuch as appear fit objedts of charity, and is eafily wrought
upon to do good, being a lover of all juft adtions, and rarely guilty of any
thing which is difhonourable or unworthy.
Venus in Cancer generally reprefents a Ihort ftature, round face, fick-
ly pale complexion, light coloured hair, and a reafonably corpulent bo­
dy ; in difpofition an idle flothful perfon, too much addidled to good
fellowlhip and recreations of the meaner fort; but puts the beft fide
outward, and feems to be in earned when he is n o t; in fine, it ihews a
very mutable inconftant perfon in moft of his adiions.
Venus in L eo gives a reafonably tall perfon, and the members well
compadted, clear complexion, round face, full eye, fometime freckles
No. 19, 4 Z in
Original from
m p u i vcw v D i i m i r 1 i b r a b v
Digitized by Go^>gle
384 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
in the face, light brown or flaxen hair, and many times of a Tandy red ;
in difpofition not to be difliked, moderately paflionate, foon angry, and
quickly pacified j of a generous free difpofition, a little addidted to pride,
but not in the extreme ; often indifpofed in body, but not much pre­
judiced thereby ; a fociable good-humoured perfon in general.
Venus in V irgo gives a tall well-proportioned body, an oval face, fad
brown or black hair, dark complexion, an ingenious perfon, and a good
orator, but fomewhat unfortunate in molt of his affairs ; a lubtle adtive
perfon, of an afpiring fancy, but rarely attains his deflres.
Venus in L ib ra gives an upright tall perfon, a decent-compofed bo­
dy, and a conformity in all the members ; fanguine complexion, brown
hair, fometimes freckles in the face, and dimples in the cheeks ; in dif­
pofition, a perfon of an obliging deportment, and generally well beloved
of molt he has any dealings or converfation with.
Venus in Scorpio reprefents a well-fet body, reafonably corpulent, a
broad face, dulkilh complexion, and fad brown or black hair $ but in
difpofition a very debauched perfon, too fubjedt to contention and en­
vy ; guilty of many vicious adiions, and this the rather if Venus hap­
pens to be in any ill afpedt with Saturn or Mars.
Venus in S agittariu s gives a perfon rather tall than otherwife, of a
moderate clear complexion, tending to fanguine, brown hair, oval
vifage, and a very proportionable body in general j in difpofition very
generous, one that aims at no mean or bafe things j a commendable
deportment, fomething proud, and a little paflionate ; yet in general of
a good temper, and no way to be difliked, delighting in harmlefs re­
creations and, in fine, a very obliging fortunate perfon.
Venus in C apricorn reprefents a mean llature, rather inclining to
brevity than otherwife j of a pale fickly complexion, thin faced, dark
hair, tending to black j in difpofition none of the bell, a general lover
of women j or, if a woman, a delighter in the courtlhip and dalliance
of men ; one that loves pleafure $ not fortunate, but too fubjedt to
change his ftation, and fuffer fudden cataflrophes in his affairs.
Venus in A qu aries perfonates a handfome decent compofed body,
reafonably corpulent, clear complexion, and brown hair generally, but
fometimes of a flaxen colour; in quality and difpofition exceeding good
2 and
i
Digitized by Goi ole Original from
MCM/ Dl ID I Ir I I RE A D V
u
u
i
i
i
a
m
,
k
j
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
l
i
^
c
u
/
i
ic
c
p
.//v
v
vv
vv.
i
na
u
iiu
cm
c.ui
y
/
o
u
.
e
s
a
_
u
s
e
#
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
ic
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 385
and commendable ; a very affable courteous perfon, inclinable to few
or no vicious a&ions, one that loves civil recreation, a peaceable quiet
perfon, obliging to all, fortunate in his affairs, and well refpedted by
his friends and acquaintance in general.
Venus in P ifces perfonates a middle-ftatured body, of a mpderate
good complexion, between pale and ruddy, a round face, brown hair
fometimee flaxen, with a dimple in the chin, a flefhy plump perfon j
in difpofition, a good humoured creature, juft in his actions, very mild
and peaceable ; ingenious, but fomewhat mutable in his refolutions, and
• moderately fortunate in the wo/ld.
PERSONS deferibed by M ERCURY in each of the T welve Signs*
Mercury in A rie s gives a body of a mean ftature, fpare and thin, an
oval face, light brown hair, fubjedt to curling ; no clear complexion,
a very ill-dilpofed mind, and much addidted to theft, and fuch-like un­
worthy actions.
Mercury in P aurus gives a perfon neither tall nor very fhort of
ftature, but a well-fet corpulent body, of a fwarthy fun-burnt com­
plexion, brown hair, fhort and thick ; in difpofition a very flothful
idle perfon, one that loves his eafe and his belly well, and takes pleafure
amongft women to his own detriment and misfortune.
Mercury in G em ini gives a reafonably tall perfon, an upright ftrait
body, every way well compofed, brown hair, and good complexion;
in difpofition very ingenious, a good orator, and fometimes becomes a
very cunning lawyer, or a perfon dealing in books, &c. In fhort, Mer­
cury in Gemini gives a perfon that well underftands his own intereft,
and is rarely overcome by the moft fubtle politician, or deluded by the
moft crafty knave that he may have occafion to encounter with ; but
generally out-wits the moft cunning fophiftry, elpecially if Mercury be
no way afflidted.
r * ■ ' * 4
Mercury in C ancer perfonates a low or fhort ftature of body, of an
ill complexion, fad hair, thin face, ftiarp nofe, and little eyes ; and in
difpofition a mere diflembler, a fottifh kind of pot-companion, and
light fingered ; alfo an ill-natured perfon, unlefs the Moon and Jupiter
be in good afpect with Mercury.
Mercury
y
Digitized by Got gle Original from «
n d w V n i ) v d 1m i 1 ' r Y t n r r A D v
386 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Mercury in Leo gives a perfon of a pretty large ftature of body, but
no clear complexion, rather fwarthy or fun-burnt, light brown hair,
round face, full eye, and a broad or high nofe ; in difpofition a hafty
choleric proud conceited perfon, ambitious of honour ; a boafter, and
too often fubje6t to contention.
Mercury in V irgo defcribes a tall, (lender, well-proportioned, perfon,
dark brown or black hair, no clear complexion ; a long vifage, and an
auftere afpeft ; in difpofition and qualities of mind a mod ingenious
perfon, a profound wit, and fearching fancy, capable of attaining divers
languages, befides other rare accomplilhments ; and this in a greater
degree, provided Mercury be free from afflidion. hut it mull be under-
flood, that every perfon who has Mercury for their fignificator, and
fo polited, mull not expect fuch qualifications ; for the capacity of birth
parents, and education, muft alfo be confidered, and guide every judi­
cious artifl in his judgment.
Mercury in L ib ra defcribes a decent compofed body, rather tall than
otherwife, light brown fmooth hair, ruddy or fanguine complexion,
the body reafonably corpulent; in difpofition a very juft and virtuous
perfon, prudent, a lover and promoter of learning. In fhort, a perfon
moft happily qualified with both natural and acquired accomplifh-
inents.
Mercury in Scorpio gives a perfon of a mean ftature, well fet, broad
fhoulders, fwarthy complexion, fad brown hair curling, with an ill-
corn pofed body ; fuch a perfon is very fubtle, a lover of the female fex,
inclinable to company, and does many a6ls of good fellowfhip, inge­
nious, and ftudious for the promotion of his own intereft.
Mercury in S a g itta riu s perfonates a tall ftature, a well-fhaped body,
not corpulent, but rather large-boned and fpare, an oval face, brown
hair, ruddy complexion, and large nofe ; for qualities and conditions,
paflionate, but foon appeafed ; too rafh in his adlions, which many times
occafion his own detriment; but good-conditioned in general, and de­
lights in noble things, yet rarely attains his ends.
Mercury in C apricorn fignifies a perfon of mean ftature, thin face,
brown hair, and dulkifh complexion, fometimes bow-legged, or fome
defect in thofe members; in difpofition peevifh, difcontented, and un­
fortunate, without other teftimonies concur j in fine, an impotent de­
jected perfon.
M
ercury
Original from
m p u / v n c v di id i ir i i d d a d v
Digitized by Got gle
' O F ' A S T R O L O G Y , 3S7
Mercury in A
g
u
a
r
i
e
sd
enotes a perfon of an indifferent ftature of body,
reasonably corpulent and flefhy, a good clear complexion, brown hair,
full face; in difpofition an ingenious obliging perfon, inclinable to the
ftudy of arts and fciences, of a pregnant wit, and apt to find out many
curious inventions.
Mercury in Pifcesgives a perfon of a low ftature, brown hair, thin
face, of a pale or fickly complexion, generally very hairy upon the
body; in difpofition a repining dilconfolate perfon, yet a lover of wo­
men, and addided to drinking; and confequently the greateft enemy to
himfelf.
PERSONS defcribed by the SUN in each of the T W E LV E SIGNS.
The Sun pofited in A
r
i
e
s,which is accounted his exaltation, defcribe
a perfon of a reafonabld ftature of body, ftrong and well compofed, a
good complexion, though not very clear, light hair, flaxen, or yellowifh,
a noble fpirit, very courageous and valiant, delights in all warlike ac­
tions, gains vidory and honour thereby, appears a terror to his enemies,
and makes himfelf famous in his generation, fometimes even beyond
his capacity of birth.
The Sun in Taurus reprefents a fhort well-fet perfon, with brown,,
hair, not very comely, a dark complexion, wide mouth, great nofe,
broad face, a good confident bold perfon, fufficiently ftrong, and not a
little proud, delighting much in oppofing others, and generally becomes
ennqueror.
The Sun in Gemini reprefents a well-proportioned body, of fanguinc
complexion, above the middle ftature, brown hair, a perfon of a good
difpofition, affable and courteous to all, not very fortunate in any af­
fairs, fubjed to the checks and controulment of others, and patiently
pafles over flight abufes, which (hews him to be a*very mild-tempered
perfon.
The Sun in Cancer perfonates or reprefents a mean ftature,’ of an ill
complexion, with fomc deformity in the face, very unhealthy afpeft,
broVvn hair, and an ill-proportioned body, but very harmlefs and inno­
cent; chearfulpand a lover of the females; alfo an admirer of mufic,
dancing, and fuch kind of recreations ; but cares not to. follow .any em­
ployment, to all kinds of which he appears undifpofed and averfe.
No. 19. 5 A * The
gltized by G O O O l C
Original from
KIPUf V f l R k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
38S a n i l l u s t r a t i o n
The Sun in Leo gives a ftrong well-proportioned perfon, of a very fan*
guine complexion, light brown or yellowifh hair, full face, and large
eyes, fometimes a tnark or fear in the face, a very honeft perfon, faith­
ful to his friends, punctual in the performance of his promife, yet de­
lights to take his pleafure, is ambitious of honour, whether in war or
otherwife ; and ufually promotes all things in order thereto.
>
The Sun in H rgo gives a perfon fomewhat above the middle ftature,
a well-proportioned body, not corpulent, but rather llender; good com­
plexion i the hair brown, and much of it; in difpofition an ingenious
chearful perfon, enjoying all decent recreations, particularly thofe which
delight the ear and the palate.
The Sun in Libra gives an upright ftraight body, an oval face, and
ruddy chearful complexion, light hair, full eyes, and fometimes pimples
in the face. The Sun in Libra fignifies a very unfortunate perfon in all
or moft of his aftions, efpecially in warlike affairs ; for therein he is furc
to come off with difhonour, if heefcapes other dangers, unlefs his figni-
ficator be befriended by fome potent benignant planet.
The Sun in Scorpio gives a fquare body, full face, cloudy complexion,
fun-burnt, brown hair, a very plump fleffiy body in general; in difpo­
fition an ingenious perfon, but of a rugged nature; ambitious of honour;
pne that would not willingly admit of an equal; fortunate upon the
feas or in the practice of phyfic.
The Sun in Sagittarius gives a tall, well-proportioned, comely, perfon,
with an oval vifage, fanguine complexion, and light brown hair ; for
qualities and difpofition, a very lofty proud-fpirited perfon, aiming at
great things, and too fevere in the exercife of his power ; yet fome ho­
nourable exploits are performed by him, which add much to his com­
mendation, and render him confpicuous.
The Sun in Capricorn ufually reprefents a mean ftature, a fickly com­
plexion, brown hair not curling, an oval face, a fpare thin body, not
decently compofed, but rather a difproportion in the members thereof;
in difpofition very juft in his actions, thereby gaining love and friend-
ffiip ; fometimes paflionate, a favourer of the female lex, and in general
a good-humoured perfon to thofe he hath converfation with;
The Sun in Aquariesdeferibes a perfon of a middle ftature, a corpu­
lent tody, decently compofed, a round full face, light brown hair, and
3 generally
Original from
itized by Google m c u / v r s D i / n i m i i r I i n n a n w
saifinnfi-nrl
#acn
ccaiio/fi
iivicn
i
h
i
i
i
i
9
i
i
,
j
(a
a
aa
a/
/,
H
i
i
i
i
/
na7nifiin-aifinnn
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 389
generally a clear complexion ; the difpofition moderately good, but fob-
je£t to oftentation, and defirous to bear rule, but free from malicious
adtions againft any one.
The Sun in Pifces gives a perfon rather fhort of ftature ; a round face,
and an indifferent good complexion ; light brown hair, fometimes flaxen,
a reafonably plump or corpulent body ; a general lover of the female
fex, and of all kinds of pleafure ; addicts himfelf to gaming and feafting,
many times to his own detriment j yet a perfon very harmlefs to others,
and one who injures none but himfelf, which he often does by too much
extravagance and prodigality.
Brief OBSERVATIONS in drawing a D efection from the PLA N ET
that is LORD of the ASCEN D A N T.
I. If no planet be in afpeft with the lord of the afeendant, then judge
of the native by the lord of the afeendant wholly, without any regard
to the fign in which he is pofited.
II. If the lord of the afeendant be retrograde, or in his fall or detri­
ment, then deferibe the native with due reference to the nature of that
fign in which he is fo pofited.
•III. If the lord of the afeendant behold the afeendant at the time of
birth, then judge of the native by the quality of the fign upon the cufp
of the afeendant.
IV. If two planets happen to be in afpedt with the afeendant, take
your judgment from him who is mod perfedt in partile, and pofited in
his own houfe, rather than from him who is in his exaltation.— Thefe
obfervations are to be confidered as well in regard to the difpofition and
qualities of the mind as in the defeription at>d formation of the body.
The
Google Original from
M Q A / V r N D V ni ID I I T I I D D A D V
S9« A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The A R T of C A L C U L A T I N G N A T I V I T I E S
A
N A TIV ITY , or Geniture, is the very moment of birth, or precife
time of the child’s coming into the world, and in which he is
made a vifible member of the creation. In this moment it is that the
ftars begin to aft and operate their influence upon the new-born infant,
by the power or intervention of thofe angels who rule and govern the
conftellations then level with the horizon, or that afcend upon the ho-
rofcope, according to that faying of St. Jerome, in his comment upon
the eighteenth chapter of St. Matthew, where he fays. Great is the dig­
nity o ffouls, fo r every one at their firfi coming into the world have an an­
gel appointedfor their cujlody and fafety. And, as it is from thefe confi­
gurations that we are enabled to point out the incidents of the native’s
future life, fo is it abfolutely neceffary that the very inftant of birth
ffiould be well and minutely ascertained, in order to arrive at corre&nefs
and certainty in thefe fpeculations. It muft be obvious to every one
that the celeftial bodies are in perpetual motion, and therefore every
quarter of an hour muft confiderably vary their pofition ; as does alfo
different parallels from any one given point of the heavens; and hence
it is that the latitude, as well as the true time of birth, becomes fo
abfolutely neceffary in calculating or bringing up the directions of a
nativity.
By knowing the place of birth, the latitude is eafily afcertained ;
but to determine the precife time of a native’s emerging from the womb
is a circumftance that has been always found difficult and precarious ;
not only on account of the inattention of nurfes and midwives to this
molt interefting event, but alfo by reafon of the difference and uncer­
tainty of almoft all clocks, watches, and dials, in reference to the
Sun. Wherefore the ancient profeffors of this art, to remove the
errors in the common or eftimate time of birth, have contrived fe-
veral ways of rectifying a nativity ; and have given l'uch rules for this
purpofe, that the true time of birth may be thereby correctly afcertain­
ed. This rectification may be effected three different ways ; firft, by
the Trutinam Hermetis,or Trutine of Hermes; fecondly, by the Ani-
moder of Ptolomy ; and, thirdly, by the natural accidents of the native.
Thefe three methods I ffiall explain fully, when I come to treat of the
rectifications of nativities ; fuffice it here to fay, that the method moftly
in ule, and which is found liable to the leaft error, particularly in the
made p l a in and e a s y .
/ genitures
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
m p a i v n D P D i i m i r i i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 391
genitures of gro^vn perfons, is that of rectifying by fuch accidents as
might have befallen them during their pad. life.
As the do&rine of nativities is the very eflence of Aftrology, and the
principal criterion by which mankind will judge of the utility and rea-
fonablenefs of the fcience, it will be requilite for me in this place to be
as plain and circumftantial as poflible. It cannot be unentertaining, nor
wholly ufelefs, even to a common reader, much lefs to thofe who mean to
Rudy the heart, to know the true grounds upon which this part of the
fcience is founded; together with thofe afpeCts or configurations at
birth, from which our predictions are framed j and the time alfo when
their influence and effefts will vifibly operate upon the body or affairs
of the native. In elucidating this fubject, I fhall be principally guided
by the Quadripartite of the great Ptolomy ; the truth and excellency
of whofe doCtrine the experience of many ages, and the obfervations of
the moft intelligent profeflors of this art, have fully eftablifhed and
confirmed.
It is manifeft to the moft fuperficial obferver, that a certain fecret
power is diffufed through all things that are near the earth, accordirfg
to the nature and properties of the firmament, and circumambient
air, and to the power and influence of the luminaries and other ce-
leftial bodies. The Sun being the fuperior luminary and the foun­
tain of life, governs all things that bear relation to the earth, not only
by varying the feafons, and bringing to perfection the feeds' of animals,
and the fruitfulnefs of plants, the flowing of waters and the mutation
of bodies, but alfo the changes of the day, of heat and moifture, of
drinefs and cold, as it hath refpeCl to the meridian, or mid-heaven.—
The Moon alfo, being neareft to the earth, diftils down an amazing in­
fluence, by which things animate and inanimate are affeCted and changed.
Rivers are augmented and diminifhed according to her lig h t; the tides
vary as fhe rifes and fets; plants and animals, in whole or in part, ir-
creafe and decreafe with her. In the fame manner the ftars, fixed and
erratic, as they keep on their uniform courfe, caufe many appearances
around us, for they produce cold and heat, and wind and rain, by
which alfo things on earth are fuitably governed ; and their mutual con-
figuration&„as..their influences co-operate with or oppofe one another,
produce variations accordingly.
The power of the Sun is on all hands admitted to be moft ,
as it is obvioufly moft univerfal. The other heavenly bodies, according
No. 20. 5 B to
Digitized by Google Original from
mc va/ v n nv di i m ir i i d r a d v
392 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
to the variety of their afpefts with the Sun, unite with, or refid, his in­
fluence, agreeable to the nature and force of fuch afpefts. This hap­
pens mod frequently, and mod forcibly, with the Moon, at all the
changes. But thefe affedtions in the dars operate more obfcurely, and
employ longer time, according to their declination, or as they appear or
difappear in our horizon. Hence then, by the rules of nature, and the
tedimony of our own reafon and experience, it mud be admitted, that
of all the planets, the influence of the Sun is the mod powerful j and
that the influence of the other planets have mod energy, when the
beams of the Sun co-operate with them. The Moon likewife, by rea­
fon of her fwiftnefs, and proximity to the earth, modifies and conveys
thefe influences to fublunary bodies, with a force fuperior to all the
other dars. And thefe influences are always mod powerful, and mod
vifible in their effedls, when this mediation of the Moon is exercifed in
conveying the influences of the dars to the Sun, or of the Sun to the
other dars, and thence to the earth. But, in defining thefe varying pro­
perties and effeils, particular regard mud be had to the latitude, decli­
nation, rifing, and fetting, of the dars, both fixed and erratic, el'pecially
thofe which approach neared to the ecliptic.
Whoever contemplates thefe premifes, and attentively obferves the
afpedts, will find that not only conjoined bodies are fubjedt to the confi­
gurations of the dars, but alfo the buddings and perfedtion of feeds are
framed and formed according to the quality with which the heavenly
matter and circumambient air is endued. The obfervant hulbandman
and fhepherd preconjedture the proper feafons for fecd-fowing, planting,
and procreation of animals, by confulting the date of the winds and
the face of the fky. The fkilful mariner likewife prepares againd the
dangers of an approaching dorm by fimilar obfervations j but they are
frequently deceived for want of better experience, and an adequate know­
ledge of the courfes and effects of the heavenly bodies, which, when ex­
actly underdood, conduce to an almod certain prefcience herein. For
it is found, that he who corredtly knows the motions of the dars, and
their configurations with the Sun and Moon, and is not ignorant of the
times, nor the place, nor the afpedts, and is well lkilled in the Ample
ways of nature, can admirably foretel, in any feafon, the proper date
and temperature of the air ; as that it will be hotter and-Mgj^^#? or colder 'fo
or drier, according to the nature and properties of the refpedtive rays
of the dars and Moon configurated with the Sun. And, as thefe fpecula-
tions are founded upon the mod Ample principles of nature, as that the
Sun is hot and dry, and the Moon is cold and moid, and the obferva­
tions
Digitized by Go< gle Original from
MCVA/ DIIDI Ir I I D R A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 393
tions deduced herefrom are feldom known to vary ; fo, by fimilar qua­
lities and obfervations, and by rules equally well founded, vve obtain a
legal and an extenfive prefcience refpetting man. For, from the natural
Rate of the ambient and heavenly matter at the time of the conftruCtion
of the body, it is eafy to know in general, the quality and temparature of
each perfon born ; that fuch fhall be the formation of his body, and
fuch the difpofition of his mind, and fuch the future events, advantage­
ous or difadvantageous, of his life, according to the ftate of the heavens
at that particular time, whether qualified for the produ&ion of fuch a
temper, or whether inimical to it. Thus, a prefage is not only poffible
by the laws of nature, but proper and neceflary to the wifdom and well­
being of fociety.
The errors of thofe who do not underftand the fundamental princi­
ples of this learning have doubtlefs afforded ftrong and plaufible reafons
to the bulk of mankind for difcarding it altogether, and for confidering
thofe events which others have more fuccefsfully afcertained, to be the
effefts of mere chance. But furely a dofirine is not to be rejected, be-
caufe fome of its followers are vicious or ignorant. In this fpeculation,
above all others, reafonable allowances fhould be made, as well for the
weaknefs of human comprehenfion, as for the great and undefinable ex­
tent of the contemplation. Much depends upon the ability of the phy-
fician, in modifying and proportioning his prefcription, no^ only to cor-
refpond with the ftate of the difeafe, but alfo with the temperature and
conftitution of the patient. In the fubjedl under confideration, a judg­
ment no lefs fagacious is abfolutely neceflary j becaufe the quality of the
heavenly matter is often conjectural, and the mixtures of different af-
pedts and influences are fometimes fo complicated, that the brighteft
underftanding can fcarcely arrange them with precifion.
But the confideration of Nativities, in points which relate to the par­
ticular temper and difpofition of refpective perfons, hath other caufefr
in nature too apt to be forgotten, or perhaps lightly paffed over as cir-
cumftances of no moment. But it is undeniably true, and muft be ad­
mitted on all hands, that the place of birth will often make confidera-
ble difference in thofe who are born ; and though the feed be the fame
from which they are procreated, and though the conftitution of the
heavens be the fame, yet the diverfities of countries wherein they are
born will naturally produce a difference in their bodies and minds. Be-
fides this, a different education and cuftom will form a different difpo­
fition and manner of life j as docs alfo the different fituation or claifes
1 in
Digitized by Goc>sle O
riginal from
M P U f v n o ^ d 1 1d 1 1r 1 1
394 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
in which mankind are brought up, and to which they are accuftomed.
Therefore he who does not attentively confider each of thefe diftintlions,
and unite them judicioully with the caufes produced by the ambient and
heavenly matter, will meet with great uncertainty in his conclufions.
For, although the power of heaven is confeffedly the greateft, and with
thefe all the others arc conceived as adjuvant caufes, yet they do not al­
ways alfume the circumambient matter as a concaufe ; confequently
thofe who attempt to predidl from the motion of the heavenly bodies
alone, without due reference to- thefe confiderations, will entail contempt
upon themfelves, and difgrace upon the fcience.
But that aftrological predi&ions are pofiible, and to be defined with
great precifion, when properly managed, is an aflertion moft true,
and which, I flatter myfelf, I have already made manifcft. It remains,
therefore, that we fpeak of the advantages of this benevolent difpenfa-
tion of Providence j for, if a foreknowledge be advantageous or necef-
fary to the fafety and future happinefs of the foul, what can be more fo in
relped of the body, fince it affords not only temporal -delight, happinefs,
and pleafure, but enables us to underftand things both divine and hu­
man ? Whatever happens in the courfe of nature, either necefTirily, or
accidentally that materially aflfeds our profperity or adverfity, and either
prolongs life or deftroys it, if they happen fuddenly and unexpectedly,
confound with fear, or tranfport with joy; but, if they are foreknown,
they fortify the mind by fuch foreknowledge, and prepare it for fuftain-
ing the beft or worft occurrences with calmnefs and fcrenity. In what
relpect therefore is man fuperiorto the irrational part of the creation, if he
cannot bear to know the hour of his diffolution ? The terms of our ex-
iftence, as every day’s experience repeatedly (hews, are that we muft
fuffer death. Where then, to minds fraught with reafon and integrity,
can be the horror, thediftrefs, or calamity, of knowing the time when
that certain event fhall take place ? To men of a virtuous habit, fuch
a knowledge muft be invaluable ; and to thofe of lefs fcrupulous prin­
ciples, it cannot be unwelcome, provided reafon or philofophy make up
any part of their conftitufion. To men of the moft exemplary conduct,
it affords fit opportunity of adjufting their temporal concerns, and re­
lieves them under the diftreffes and afflictions of this life, by afcertain-
ing the period of their fufferings, and by giving them hopes of retribu­
tion and reward in that which will fucceed. To the inconfiderate and
worldly minded, it not only gives the fame advantages, but begets in
them a proper fenfe of the more important concerns of that endlefs ftate
ef exiftence, “ from whence no traveller returns.” For thefe grand
purpofes
O
riginal from
V f l D k ' Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
Digitized by Goi. gle
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 395
purpofes chiefly, the all-wife and benevolent hand of Providence feems
to have pointed out to mankind the Art of Prefcience and Prediction ;
not to fay any thing of the innumerable lefs important concerns of hu­
man affairs, which may oftentimes afford fingular advantage and happi-
nefs to individuals, as well as to ftates and focieties, by being thus time­
ly forewarned of what fhall hereafter come to pafs. And furely I need
not mention a ftronger inftance of the advantages of prefcience, than
what will naturally arife from the obfervation of every man of experience
when he looks back upon the occurrences of his paft life, and recollects
but half the Ioffes and inconveniences he has fuflained, only for want of
that foreknowledge in worldly affairs which the art of prediction fupplies.
* W e are not however to believe, that the accidents and events of life
fo befal men, as though a law were fet over them by fome indiffoluble
caufe from above, by which they are of neceflity brought to pafs, no
other caufe being able to oppofe or prevent them. It were unphilofo-
phical and abfurd thus to imagine; for the motion of the heavenly bo­
dies is immutable by divine law, and the mutation^of earthly things is
difpofed of and revealed by a natural generation and order, which the fu-
perior caufe follows by accident. It is alfo to be obferved, that many
things happen to man, not only by reafon of the natural and proper qua­
lity of the heavenly matter, but alfo by the operation of fome more uni-
verfal caufes ; as by great mutations and mixtures of the elements, plagues
and peftilences, and floods and conflagrations, are produced, by which
multitudes are at once fwept away, and perifh under one common fata­
lity. Thus greater caufes always overcome the lefs, and the ftronger
the weaker; and, whenever the ftronger power prevails in any great mu­
tation, the more general effeCls we have been fpeaking of happen........-
Other things likewife happen to individuals; becaufe the natural proper­
ty of each is overcome by the contrariety of the circumambient matter,
whether the antipathy thereof be fmall or fortuitous. Now, this being
admitted, it becomes apparent that of thofe things which happen gene­
rally and particularly, be the accident whatever it may, whofe firft
caufe is ftrong and irrefiftable, and no other caufe having power to with-
ftand it, come to pafs wholly by neceflity. But thofe accidents
which have a weaker caufe are overthrown, if any other caufe, able to
withftand it, is found; and, if fuch a refilling caufe appears not, then
thofe accidents happen agreeable to the nature and impull'e of their firft
caufe; and they are produced, not through the ftrength of the caufe, nor
by neceflity, but becaufe the antipathy by which it might have been
deftroyed is neither known nor to be defined. Thus it happens to
all things that have a natural caufe and beginning, as metals, ftones.
No. 20. 5 C plants.
O
riginal from
vn by D i i m i r i i p b a d v
Digitized by Goc gle
396 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N .
plants, animals, wounds, ficknefs, affedlions, &c. fome of which work
neceffarily, and others not, except when fomething is found of fuffici-
ent ftrength to oppofe their efficient power. Hence it is demonftrable,
that, though fimple caufes have natural properties peculiar to themfelvcs,
yet there are other caufes equally fimple, which operate in contact with
thole of the former, and by which the bare fimple nature of each is
changed by mutation into a third quality which differs in nature from
either of the former; according to which fuch fimple natural proper­
ties are either partly or wholly changed, or otherwife fruftrated or di­
verted. As for example, in the weather, the Sun, in his own fimple
nature, is the fountain of light and heat; but, being joined with Saturn,
never fails, if not prevented by fome other apparent caufe, both in win­
ter and fummer, to produce cold and cloudy weather. But, if Mars hap­
pens to be joined in configuration with them, the cafe is altered, and,
inftead of cold, the weather will not fail, in fummer, to be hot and ful-
try, though at the fame time cloudy, corrufcuous, and diforderly; and,
in winter, remarkably clofe and warm, though lowering and turbulent;
more efpecially if attended with a new or full Moon. Thefe are fadts
founded upon a rational hypothefis, and proved by long experience and
conftant obfervation.
Thefe preliminaries being laid down, and conlidercd as the ground­
work of Allrology, it follows that thofe, who would wiffi to be proficient
in it, ffiould learn topredidl futurities after a natural way, by fuch prefci-
cnce as nature has pointed out, and not by an inconfiderate or vain opi­
nion that this (hall happen, becaufe it hath many great and efficient
caufes which it is impoffible to refill j or that this (hall not happen,
becaufe it hath refilling affedlions. Calculators of nativities, therefore,
when thdy fpeak of thofe things which may come to pafs, can do it in
no other way, conformable to truth and nature, but by the power and
effetls of the circumambient matter or afpefls, which, being more or
lefs inclined to fuch a temperature, will produce fuch an accident, lla-
ture of body, or difpofition of mind. As when a phyfician afferts that
an ulcer will eat away or putrefy, or a naturalill that the loadftone will
attract iron ; not becaufe it is neceffary that the ulcer Ihould eat away
or putrefy, or the loadllone attradl; but, if the contraries are not known
nor their effects prevented, thefe circumllances will affuredly happen,
according to the caufe and confequcnces of things, as they have been
from the beginning of the world. Thus it happens, and thus we ought
to judge, in the calculation of nativities; for thofe events which per­
petually fall in upon all human affairs, are produced according to the
l'ucccffion of natural order, either becaufe things that may oppofe and
prevent
Digitizedby G O O Q l e
Original from
v n c k ' Dl ID I I r I I R R A P V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 397
prevent are not found, or becaufe they are not known. And again,
events known naturally, and according to order, and thofe things being
found which difagree and oppofe, they are then either wholly prevented,
or elfe come to pafs with very fmall effett, and are Scarcely vifible in
their operation.
Now, feeing there is both in generals and particulars fuch a confe-
quence, it is curious to remark, that though many people believe in
generals, and allow it is poflible to prognoflicate upon that fyflem, and
alfo think it advantageous towards prefervation and health ; yet in par­
ticulars they will not allow the fame operations to have any force. For
many confefs they know the proper feafons, and the lignification of the
fixed ftars, and the afpedts of the Moon, and they obferve them for the
eftablifhment of their health, and to reduce their conflitutions to a good
and regular temperature, in fummer by cooling medicaments, and in
winter by heating. They alfo obferve the fignifications of the fixed
liars, for the purpofes of navigation ; and they plant, and fow, and for­
ward vegetation, by obferving the different afpedls of the Moon ; and
no one fuppofes thefe general effedls either impoflible or ufelefs. But
in particulars, as of cold or heat, which increafe and decreafe in their
proper temper, and by the properties and mixtures of other matter, they
neither believe it poflible to foretel, or conceive that we may be pre-
ferved from, the confequences attending them. But the caufe of this
opinion, is the difficulty of knowing particulars, and the management
of them, with precilion and truth j and becaufe men are feldom found of
fo penetrating a comprehenfion, that none of the contraries be hidden
from their view ; hence, the oppofing power of influence for the mofl
part not being joined with a foreknowledge in the effect produced by firffc
caufes without impediment, they judge of things Amply, as though
immutable and impoflible to be prevented. But as in the art of predic­
tion its poflibility appears worthy of confideration, although it is not
altogether infallible, this prefervative part is certainly worthy of parti­
cular regard, fince it may bring relief to many, though not a perfedt cure
to all. For this reafon the Egyptians, finding the efficacy of this art,
every where joined phyfic to prognoftic aflronomy; and hence it is ap­
parent, tha', if they had thought futurities could not be removed or di­
verted, they would never have prescribed certain remedies and perferva-
tives againlt the effedl of the ambient, prefent or to come, whether in
general or particular cafes ; they therefore fought out a method at once
advantageous and profitable, that by aftrology the quality of the Subja­
cent temperaments, and the accidents which come to pafs by the influ­
ence of the heavenly bodies, might be difeovered and known; but
j the
Digitized by Cj O O Q I c
Original from
ME\A/ v n e t ' Dl mi IC I I R B A D V
4
398 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
the medical art, to didinguidi the fimpathies and antipathies of each,
and to underdand the natural cure of prefent difeafes, and the true
mode of preservation from future. For without this fpecies of adro-
nomic knowledge ^hc medical art is foundin many cafes to fail; though
I am ready to allow that there are not remedies to be found for all bodies
and difeafes.
Thefe observations become clear and obvious, from a confideration
of the planets and their afpcdls. The Sun is found by nature to caufe
heat and drinefs in a moderate degree. His power and influence is mod
viiible to our fenfes, by reafon of his magnitude, and the manifeft mu­
tation of the feafons; fer, by how much the nearer he approaches to
our vertical point, by fo much the more he flirs up heat in us, and
fubjevts us to his nature. But the nature of the Moon is chiefly moid-
eniug; for, being nearer the earth. She exhales the vapours of all moid
bodies, and thus evidently affedts all moid things, and putrefies them j
but, becaufe of her analogy with the Sun, (he moderately participates of
heat. The planet Saturn cools and dries, becaufe he is far didant from
the heat of the Sun and vapours of the earth j but he cools mod abun­
dantly, and dries mod moderately. The other planets alfo receive
virtue according to the configurations they make with the Sun and
Moon. Mars drieth much, and burns, becaufe of his hot and fiery na­
ture ; but the influence of Jupiter is temperate, becaufe he moves be­
tween the coldnefs of Saturn and the heat of Mars. Venus hath nearly
the fame temperature, but in a different meafure, becaufe of her vicini-.
ty to the Sun ; (he moidens mod, as does the Moon, through the great-
nefs of their light, by which they affume the moidure of the vapours of
the earth. Mercury fometimes dries, and fometimes moidens, according
to his pofition and configuration with other dars. Hence arife the four
principal humours, from whence all bodies are engendered. Tw o of
them are generative and afclive, the hot, and the moifl ; for by thefe are
all things joined together, and increafed ; and two are corruptive and
hurtful ; the dry, and the cold ; for by thefe all things are diffolved,
and dedroyed. Wherefore two of the planets, viz. Jupiter and Venus, are
defined to be benefics, becaufe of their benevolent temperature, and
becaufe heat and moidure equally abounds in them ; and likewife the
Moon, for the fame reafons. But Saturn and Mars, being of an oppo-
fite nature, are defined to be of a malevolent and dedrudtive influence, by
reafon of the extreme cold of the one, and the violent heat of the other.
But the Sun and Mercury, being of a controvertible nature, are found to
produce both thefe influences, according to the nature, force, and quality,
of the afpedts or configurations they make with other bodies.
As
O
riginal from
M P J i f Dl I P I I r I I P D A R V
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 399
As there are four diftindt humours or qualities incident to the planets,
fo are there two primary fexes by which they are diftinguifhed, namely,
the mafculine and the feminine. The feminine planets partake prin­
cipally of moifture ; therefore the Moon and Venus are termed feminine,
becaufe moifture chiefly abounds in them. But Saturn, Jupiter, Mars,
and the Sun, are mafculine, becaufe they heat and dry with the greater
energy. Mercury, in point of fex, is confidered indifferently, becaufe
he equally dries or moiftens as occafion may be; The ftars are likewife
confidered, as to fex, according to their pofition with the Sun. When
they are oriental, and going before the Sun, they become mafculine;
but, when they are occidental, and follow the Sun, they are feminine.
The two apparent diftindtions of time, called day and night, are alfo
divided into fexes. The day, becaufe of its heat and adlivity, is termed
mafculine ; and the night, becaufe of its moifture, and conveniency for
reft, feminine ; therefore the Moon and Venus are nodturnal, and the
Sun and Jupiter diurnal; but Mercury is in this rcfpedl alfo indifferent,
diurnal when in an oriental fituation, and nodturnal when occidental.
But the two malevolent planets, Saturn and Mars, are confidered diur­
nal and nodturnal, not according to their quality and nature, as heat to
heat, but contrary j for a good temperament, taking its like, maketh
the good greater j and unlike, mixed with evil, deftroys much of that
evil j therefore Saturn, as cold, is joined to the heat of the day j and
Mars, as dry, to the moifture of the night. So each of them, becoming
moderate in their influences, will appear confonant to the conditions
which give the temperament. It is alfo to be remarked, that a planet is
diurnal, when in a diurnal nativity above the earth and in a nodturnal
nativity under the earth j but n
o
B
u
r
n
a
l,when in a nodturnal nativity
the earth or in a diurnal nativity under the earth.
Now the influences and effedts of the planets have fmaller or greater
force, according to their afpedts and configuration with the Sun ; for
the Moon along her increafe, from her firft appearance to the firft
quarter, is moiftening $ from the firft quarter to her full, fhe warms ;
from the full to the laft quarter, fhe dries ; and, from the laft quar­
ter till fhe is hid, fhe is cold. The planets matutine to the firft fta-
tion are more moift j from the firft ftation till they rife at night,
they are more heating ; from their rifing at night to the fecond ftation,
they dry more j and, from the fecond ftation, they cool more. The firft:
ftation is when a planet begins to be retrograde; and the fecond ftation
when from retrogradation it becomes diredt ; and they begin to rife at
night when in oppofition to the * Sun. Thus the power of thefe va­
rious
* The rifing and fetting of the ftars are threefold j cofmical, achronical, and heliacal.—
Cofinical rifing is, when a ftar or planet afeends the horizon with the fame degree and mi-
No. so. 5 D nute
itizedby G o o g l e
Original from
M C \ A / Dl I P I I r I I R P A P V
400 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
rious affeftions, being mixed among themfelves, produces many diffe­
rences of quality in the circumambient matter which continually fur-
rounds us ; the proper and diftinct power of which, alternately prevail­
ing, is changed more or lefs by the force of other configurations. To
thefe effects, the operation of the fixed ftars in general contaibute not a
little. Thofe of the greateft magnitude are the moft powerful and ef­
ficacious j and thofe in or near the ecliptic have more energy than thofe
remote from it. The bright ftars have more influence than the dull
and languid j thofe of a red colour partake of the quality of Mars ;
thofe of a lead colour operate with fimilar effect to Saturn j and fo of
the others, according to their affinity with the planets, as hath been al­
ready explained. Stars which have northern latitude and declination
affedt us moft ; and with South Latitude, the more fouthern. Thofe
^lituated in the zenith influence more than thofe which arc more re­
mote ; and fuch as are in partile conjunction or antifeion of any planet,
or which rife or fet, or culminate, with any planet, have a more than
ordinary power and influence : but of themfelves the fixed ftars emit no
rays.
The four angles of the horofeope, or cardinal houfes of heaven, from,
whence the general winds take their rife, muft likewife be confidered.
The oriental angle is poffeiTed of great drinefs j for, when the Sun ar­
rives there, thofe things which were moiftened by the night begin to dry;
and the winds which blow from thence, commonly called eaft-winds, are
very drying, and without moifture. The angle of the fouth is moft hot,
becaufe the Sun, being there culminate, burns and heats with greater
energy, becaufe our mid-heaven declines to the fouth ; wherefore the
winds proceeding from thence, commonly called fouth-winds, are hot
and filling. But the occidental angle is moift, becaufe, when the Sun
arrives there, thofe things which were dried in the day begin to be
moiftened ; confcquently the winds blowing from thence, commonly
called weft-winds, are free from thicknefs or moifture. The northern
angle or point, lying towards the Bears, is moft cold, becaufe the culmi­
nating Sun, in refpect to that part of the earth which we inhabit, declines
moft from it j for which reafon, the winds blowing from that quarter
are generally cold and freezing. The perfedt knowledge of thefe things
is very neceffary to enable us to diftinguifh the mixture of particulars; for
it
nute of the ecliptic in which the Sun is ; and cofmical fetting is, when a ftar or planet fets exaftly
when the Sun rifes. Achronical rifing is, when a ftar rifes above the horizon at Sun fetting ; and
achronical fetting is, when a ftar fets with the Sun. Heliacal rifing is* when a ftar, which before
w
as>hidden by the rays ofthe Sun, begins to appear in the eaft ; and heliacal fetting is, whga a ftar,
which before was feen, is hidden under the Sun-beams, and disappears#
Digitized by G<x sle Original from
MC\A/ v n o VDl ID I Ir I I D R A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 401
it is apparent, that, according to the conftitution of the feafons, of ages,
and of the angles, the efficient power and influence of the ftars vary;
and, when there is no contrary conftitution, the ftars have a longer
influence, becaufe it is unmixed ; for, in heating, they that are moft hot
are moft powerful j and, in moift conftitutions, thofe are the moft pow­
erful which are of a moiftening nature. But, when the conftitution is
contrary, they are weaker, by reafon of the temperament and mixture of
contrariety, affe&cd by the heating ftars in cold conftitutions, and by
the moift in dry. In the fame manner each of the other conftitutions
have power, according to the proportions of their mixtures. To thefe
we may join the mutual properties of the twelve figns of the zodiac j
for their general temperatures are agreeable to the feafons fubjeCt to each
fign ; and they obtain fome other qualities arifing from their analogy to
the Sun, Moon, and ftars ; and thefe confiderations of the agreement or
difagreement of the natures and mixtures of the various influences of the
ftars, ftgns, and parts of heaven, are of no fmall confequence in aftrolo-
gical contemplations.
Of the twelve figns, fome are termed tropics, fome equinodtial, fome
fixed, and others bicorporal. The tropics are two; the firft from the
fummer folftice, the thirty degrees of Cancer ; and the other from the
winter folftice, the thirty degrees of Capricorn. Thefe are called tro­
pics, becaufe, when the Sun is pofited in the beginning of thefe figns, he
turns back out of the courfe of latitude or declination to the contraries,
making fummer by his entering into Cancer, and winter by his paflage
into Capricorn. There are alfo two of the figns equinodtial; one from
the vernal equinox, which is Aries ; the other from the autumnal
equinox, which is Libra. Thefe are fo termed, becaufe, whenevever the
Sun enters the beginning of them, he makes the days and nights equal
all the world over.
O f the other eight figns, four are fixed and four bicorporal. The fixed
are thofe which follow the tropical and equinodtial ; becaufe, when the
Sun is pofited in any of thefe, the cold or heat, or drinefs or moif-
ture of the feafons, which began while the Sun was in the tropics of
equinoctials, more ftrongly affects us, and the conftitution of the fea­
fons is more forcibly felt ; not becaufe their condition is naturally fuch,
but becaufe we, being no longer under fuch a conftitution, become more
fenfible of its power. The bicorporal follow the fixed ; and, becaufe
they are between the fixed and the tropics, they partake of the nature of
both conftitutions.
l Again,
Digitized by Go*,'file Original from
v n o k ' di i q 1 1r
L^u
nid
in,
o
u
u
y
i
t
i
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
e
u
/
iiiL|j.7/vvvvvv.ridunu
u
b
i
.
u
r
y/c
u_
t.t;bb_ubt:-w-pu-yuuyit;
4o« A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Again, fix of the twelve figns are named mafeulfne and diurnal j and
fix feminine and nocturnal. And becaufe the night is always next to
the day, and the feminine is joined to the mafculine, they are placed
one after another by turns. The beginning is taken from Aries, be­
caufe the moifture of the fpring is the beginning of the feafons ; and
becaufe the mafculine virtue is predominant, and the active power before
the pafiive } therefore the figns Aries and Libra are efteemed mafcu­
line and diurnal ; for thefe defcribe the equinoctial circle j and the prime
mutation, and ftrongeft motion of all* is caufed by them. The other
figns are alternately placed one after another in their proper order ; and,
from the form and quality of them, fome are termed four-footed, others
terreftrial; fome commanding, and others fruitful. And, to renew them
in the mind of the reader, it may not be improper to diftinguifh them
here. Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and Aquaries, are maf­
culine and commanding. Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn,
and Pifces, are feminine and obeying. Aries, Taurus, Leo, Sagittarius,
and Capricorn, are four-footed. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, are
terreftrial. Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces, are fruitful. Again, Aries,
Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn, are termed moveable. Taurus, Leo,
Scorpio, and Aquaries, fixed. Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pifces,
common. Aries, Taurus, and Gemini, vernal. Cancer, Leo, and
Virgo, eftival. Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius, autumnal. Capricorn,
Aquaries, and Pifces, hyemnal. Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius* are hot,
dry, and fiery. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, are cold, dry, and earthy.
Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries, are hot, moift, and airy. Cancer, Scorpio,
Pifces, Gemini, and Leo, are moift and watery $ and Virgo is barren.
Now from this difpofition and temperature of the figns are brought
about the great ends and purpofes of nature, by means of the afpedts and
pofitions of the planets configurated in them ; and it is upon thefe
afpedts and configurations that the art of predicting is grounded, and
the events of futurity fought out and known. Thefe afpedts are of two
forts, or clafies, viz. zodiacal and mundane. The principal zodiacal
afpedts are the fextile, quartile, trine, and oppofition ; and, though the
conjunction cannot properly be termed an afpedt, yet it may come un­
der the more general name of a familiarity, common to all the afpedts.
The conjunction is formed by two planets being bodily joined, or meet­
ing in the fame degree and minute of a fign. The fextile is formed by
two planets when they are two figns, or fixty degrees, afunder; the
quartile, when three figns, or ninety degrees, afunder ; the trine, when
four figns, or one hundred and twenty degrees, afunder; and the oppo­
fition, when fix figns, or one hundred and eighty degrees, afunder;
which
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
K I P A l V H D k ' Dl I D I I r I I D R A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 403
which being juft one half of the great circle, places the planets exaclly
facing one another. The fmaller or inferior zodiacal afpe£ls are the
femiquadrate of forty-five degrees j the quintile, of feventy-two degrees;
the fefquiquadrate, of one hundred and thirty-five degrees; and the
biquintile, of one hundred and forty-four degrees. And thefe are either
partile or platic; partile, when the conjunction or afpedt is made in
the fame degree and minute, and platic when not configurated in the
fame degree and minute, but only within the orbs of the afpcding pla­
net. Moreover, thefe afpedls are either dexter or finifler ; dexter, when
contrary to the fucceffion of the figns, as a planet in Leo calls a fextile
dexter to another planet in Taurus. Sinifter afpedls arc according to
the fucceffion of the figns ; agreeable to which, a planet in Aries cafls
his trine finifler to another in Leo; or one in Leo cafls a trine finifler
to another in Sagittarius.
Mundane afpedls are thofe which are made in the meridional circle,
in reference to the earth, and confifl of only the fextile, quartile, trine,
and oppofitionf; though there are other familiarities which we call pa­
rallels, and thefe both mundane and zodiacal. Of thefe familiarities,
the conjundlion is good with benevolent flars; but with malevolent bad.
The quintile, biquintile, fextile, and trine, are alfo good and fortunate;
but the femiquadrate, fefquiquadrate, quartile, and oppofition, are evil
and unfortunate. Thefe good and evil influences proceed more from the
nature and quality of the flars, than from the nature of the figns they
poflefs; for it is found that even good afpedls of malefic planets will pro­
duce mifchief, though not in fo great a degree as the evil configurations.
#
; Zodiacal parallels are what are commonly called Antifcians, and are
nothing more than parallels of declination, or two points in the hea­
vens at equal diflances from the beginning of any of the tropics, or
equinoctial points. For example; one planet in ten degrees of Aries,
and another in twenty degrees of Pifces, are in zodiacal parallel to each
other ; or, in other words, one planet in twenty degrees of Pifces cafls
its antifcian, or one parallel, to ten degrees of Aries, and its contra-anti-
fcian, or another parallel, to ten degrees of Libra. But, in taking thefe,
particular attention muft be had to each of the planets latitude, for want
of which, great errors have been frequently made. For, fuppofe the
Moon to be pofited in twenty-two degrees of Taurus, with five degrees
of north latitude, her antifcian, or zodiacal parallel, taken in the com­
mon way, would fall in eight degrees of Leo, and her contra-antifcian
in eight degrees of Aquaries; whereas the true antifcian falls in ten
degrees of Cancer, which is no lefs than twenty-eight degrees from that
No. 20. 5 E obtained
Digitized by G O O < ? l e
Original from
m c w u v n c f c ' d i i d 1 1r 1 i d b a b v
404 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
obtained in the common way, for there is exactly that difference be­
tween the ecliptical longitude of twenty-two degrees of Taurus, with­
out latitude, and twenty-two degrees of Taurus, with five degrees of
north latitude.
A planet thus confidered, as having latitude, hath four zodiacal paral­
lels ; one at its body, one at its antifcional point, and the other two at
their oppofite points. And hence, according to the example above
Rated, the Moon’s parallels at her body fall in twenty degrees of Ge­
mini, and at the antifcional point in ten degrees of Cancer; and their
oppofite points or contra-antifeians, fall in twenty degrees of Sagitta-
rious, and in ten degrees of Capricorn. Thefe antifeians, and contra-
antifeians, are always of a benign and friendly nature, when formed by
the benefic planets; but they are equally unbenign and unfortunate, when
made by violent and malevolent ftars.
As zodiacal parallels are only equal diftances from the tropical and
equinodtial circles, fo mundane parallels, by a parity of reafon, are no­
thing more than a like equal diftance from the horizontal or meridional
points or circles. For example, a planet on the cufp of the twelfth
houfe is in parallel to the cufp of the fecond houfe, becaufe it is exadfly
at the fame diftance from the afeendant or horizon that the twelfth is ;
and likewife in parallel to the eighth houfe, as being exa&ly the fame
diftance from the tenth houfe or meridian that the twelfth is. And, as
the zodiacal parallels are meafured by the circle of the zodiac, fo the
mundane parallels are meafured by the diurnal or nodlurnal arches; for
juft fo long as the Sun or any other planet will be in proceeding from
the cufp of the twelfth houfe to the cufp of the tenth, juft fo long the
fame Sun or other planet will be in proceeding, on the lame day, from
the cufp of the tenth to the cufp of the eighth houfe; and juft fo many
hours and minutes of time as there are between the fun-rifing and noon,
juft fo many hours and minutes are there, the fame day, between noon and
fun-fetting; hence the diftance between the Sun’s rifing and fetting is no­
thing but the diurnal arch, which the meridian, or Sun’s place at noon,
cuts into two equal parts; and the diftance between the Sun’s fettingand
riling conftitutes the nodturnal arch. Thefe mundane parallels have a
two-fold confideration in direttions; firft fimple, and according to natural
order ; and fecondly, according to the motion of the earth, or pritnum
mobile, both of which muft be attended to in the calculation of nativities.
Now there are figns diflociate and feparate; and thefe are fuch as
have no familiarity by any of the ways before mentioned ; for they nei­
ther
Original from
I C U / V n D ^ Dl ID I I r I I D R A D V
a*Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 405
ther command nor obey, nor mutually behold each other, nor are of
equal power j but they are configurated by one or five figns, and do not
at all partake of the afpedts, either by oppofition, trine, quartile, or
Textile. Hence they are termed in]u£i; for, being configurated by one
fign’s diftance, they areas it were diitorted from each o:her j and thofe
which behold by five figns divide the wh de circle of the zodiac into
unequal parts. The figns. under this defcription, arc Aries, Gemini,
Libra, and Sagittarius, which have no familiarity or afpedts with Taurus
or Scorpio j and the figns. Cancer, Virgo, Capricorn, and Piiees, have
no familiarity with Leo or Aquaries.
But the planets have familiarity with all parts of the zodiac by
Houles, Trigons, Exaltations, and Terms. Cancer and Leo, approaching
nearer to our vertical point than either of the others, and thereby pro­
ducing heat and warmth, are for that reafon defined to be the houfes of
the rvvo great and primary luminaries : Leo is attributed to the Sun as
maLuline, and Cancer to the Moon as feminine. Hence the femi-
circle of the zodiac from Leo to Capricorn is termed folar, and from
Aquaries to Cancer lunar, in order that each planet Ihould polTefs one
fign for its houfe in each of its femicircles ; the one bearing configuration
to the Sun, and the other to the Moon, according to the motion of the
fphere of each, and to their natural qualities. Saturn, therefore, being
in nature cold, and inimical to heat, occupying the higheft orb, and
being at the greateft diftance from the luminaries, takes for his houfes
the figns which are oppolite to Cancer and Leo, namely, Aquaries and
Capricorn, becaufe thefe figns are by nature cold and wintery, and the
afpects which are made by oppofition do not combine to any good or
benevolent purpofe. Jupiter, becaufe his orb is next below that of
Saturn, alTumes for his houfes the two next figns, Sagittarius and Pifce?,
which are windy and fruitful, by reafon of their trigonal refpeet to the
luminaries, which is a lituation proper for the produdtion of good.
Mars, being next in order to Jupiter, and dry by nature, takes for his
houfes the two next figns, Aries and Scorpio, which are iim'lar in their
efifedts to Mars, by having malefic and mifehievous radiations with the
luminaries. Venus, being temperate, has for her houfes the two next
figns, Taurus and Libra, which are of a fruitful and prolific nature,
and correfpond with the luminaries by a Textile ray, and is never more
than two figns. diltant from the Sun. Mercury, being circumfcribed by
the orbs of all the other planets, takes lor his houfes Gemini and Virgo,
and is n'.«er more than one fign diltant from the centra! Sun, being the
firlt planet next him.
The
Digitized by Gooale Original from
KIPU/ Dl IRI \f* 1 I R E
aifSnnfi-nrl-w-^Qn
q
q
^
-
h
p
/
R
i
m
c
n
n
n
h
p
i
r
aaaaaa
/
/
t
I
tti
i
/
na
7mPiin-aiRnno
'i
i
i
p
i
i
in
n
406 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The familiarities by triplicity are next to be confidered by calculator*
of nativities; for whereas a triplicity and figure of equal fides obtains
an agreement, fo the circle of the zodiac is circumscribed by three
circles, the equinoctial and the two tropics, and is divided into four
equilateral triangles, which conftitute thefe triplicities. The firft is
formed by the three mafeuline figns, Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius; and
it has for its lords, the Sun, Jupiter, and M ars; but Mars being of a
contrary nature to the folar influence, he is excluded from bearing any
government in this triplicity, and therefore the Sun has the rule by
day, and Jupiter by night. Aries occupies the equino£tial circle, Leo
the eftival, and Sagittarius the winter. This trigon is principally
northern, by reafon of the dominion of Jupiter; and it is windy and
fruitful. It is alfo north-weft, and receives a mixture of the north-weft:
winds, becaufe it is the houfe of Mars, which planet ftirs up and governs
thofe winds.
The fecond triplicity, which confifts of Taurus, Virgo, and Capri­
corn, is under the government of the Moon and Venus. The Moon
governs by night, and Venus by day. Taurus is in the eftival circle,
Virgo in the equinodial, and Capricorn in the winter. This triplicity,
becaufe of the dominion of Venus, is fouth ; for this ftar, being endued
with a warming and moiftening power, produces fouth winds ; and be­
caufe Saturn has his houfe in Capricorn, in this triplicity, it likewife
partakes of a mixture of the eaft winds; for Saturn, being familiar to the
oriental parts, by reafon of the condition of the Sun, produces and go­
verns the eaft winds.
The third triplicity is formed of the figns Gemini, Libra, and Aqua-
ries, three mafeuline figns, and is placed under the government of
Saturn and M ercury; Saturn rules by day, and Mercury by n ight;
Gemini is fituate in the fummer circle, Libra in the equinotiial, and
Aquaries in the winter. This triplicity is chiefly eaftern, on ac­
count of the government of Saturn; but it becomes partly north-eaft,
by the influence of Jupiter, on which account it aflumes a mixture of the
north-eaft winds.
The fourth triplicity, confifting of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces, is
chiefly under Mars, who derives an influence here, on account of
having his houfe in Scorpio ; but, becaufe the figns in this triplicity are
feminine, the Moon by night, and Venus by day, rule jointly with
Mars, and intermix their qualities and influence together. Cancer is
fituate in the eftival circle, Scorpio in the winter, and Pifces in the
3 equinoftial.
V
Digitized by Google Original from
M P / i l V n B k ' Dl ID I Ir I ID D A D V
This triplicity is weftern, becaufe of the dominion of Mars and the
Moon j but, affuming a mixture by the rule of Venus, it becomes in
fome meafure fouth-weft.
The familiarities by exaltation are thus occafioned ; the Sun, when
he enters Aries, makes his tranfit into the high and northern femicircle ;
but, when he enters Libra, he pafles into the low and fouthern femicir­
cle. For this reafon, the Sun has his exaltation in Aries, in which the
days begin to lengthen, and the heating nature of the Sun begins to in-
creafe j and for the contrary reafon he receives his fall in Libra. Saturn,
being of an oppofite nature to the Sun, has an exaltation in Libra, and
his fall in Aries; for, whercfocver heat is increafed, cold is diminifhed ;
and, where there is an augmentation of cold, heat is leflened. So the
Moon, becaufe fhe makes her conjunction with the Sun in Aries, and
makes the beginning of the increafe of her light in the firft fign of her
triplicity, which is Taurus, that is afligned for her exaltation. So Ju ­
piter, the producer of northern and fruitful winds, when in Cancer, be­
comes more northerly, and acquires a greater increafe of power ; he
therefore takes Cancer for his exaltation, and Capricorn for his fall. And
fince Mars is chiefly of a burning nature, and becomes mod heating in
Capricorn, becaufe he is then in his molt fouthern declination, he hath
his exaltation in Capricorn, oppolite to that of Jupiter, and his fall in
Cancer. Again, Venus is naturally moiftening, but moftly fo when in
Pifces ; for which reafon fhe aflumes her exaltation in that fign, and
takes her fall in Virgo. But Mercury being of an oppofite nature, and
moftly dry, takes the oppofite fign Virgo for his exaltation ; for then
autumn, the drieft part of the feafon, appears $ and he has his fall in the
fign Pifces.
Familiarities by terms have been already largely explained in the
former part of this work. But it is necefiary to remark, that the be­
ginning of the figns, and of the terms alfo, ought to be made from the
beginning of the equinoctial and tropical figns j and this is manifeft, be­
caufe we fee their natures, and powers, and familiarities, have not any
other caufe, but from the tropics and equinoxes ; for, if other begin­
nings are appointed, we (hall either be neceflitated to ufe the nature of
the figns no longer in the theory of judgments, or, if we do admit them,
we fhall commit error by corrupting the diftances, and dividing thofe
from which influences are afforded them.
Befides thefe familiarities of the ftars and figns, they alfo poflefs what
are called their faces, thrones, and the like. Their proper face is when
No. 20. 5 F each
Digitized by Google Original from
M P A f v n u t ' Dl ID I I r I I D D A D V
4o 8 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
each flar keeps the fame figure with the Sun and Moon which its houfe
bears to their houfe. This is done when Venus makes a fexangular
figure to the luminaries ; to the Sun when fhe is occidental, and to
, the Moon when oriental, according to the fucceffion of houfes. They
are alfo faid to be in their thrones, when they have a power in the place
they poflefs, according to the foregoing prerogatives, by two or more
teflimonies ; for then their energy and influences are increafed, becaufe
the familiarity of the ambient twelve figns co-operates therewith. They
are likewife faid to be in their joy, when, although they have no fami­
liarity with the ambient figns, yet are fo in refpeCt to others of the fame
condition with them, and by which likenefs there is found a communi­
cation by fympathy. So again, whem they are found of an unlike and
contrary condition, much of their power is diminifhed by a new and
mixed virtue arifing from the different temperature of the ambient figns.
Hence let it be underflood, that, when Mercury is one fign diflant from
the Sun, he is in his face ; Venus, when two figns diflant; Jupiter,
when four figns diflant ; and Saturn, when five figns from the Sun.—
The fame observation holds good in refpeCl of the Moon, but then the
rule mufl be made in figns antecedent to her ; as, if the Moon were in
Virgo, then Mercury would be fo dignified in Leo, Venus in Cancer,
Mars in Gemini, &cc. The thrones of the planets are thefe : Saturn’s
throne is in Aquaries ; Jupiter’s in Sagittarius; Mars’s in Scorpio ; the
Sun’s in Leo; Venus’s in T aurus; Mercury’s in Virgo; and the Moon’s
in Cancer.
The familiarities, by application and feparation, are likewife to be con-
fidered in the DoCtrine of Nativities. Thofe planets which precede
apply to thofe which follow ; and they that follow feparate from thofe
which precede. Thefe applications and reparations arc likewife to be
confidered with refpeCt to their latitude ; for the fmaller the latitude of
planets in conjunction is, the more powerful will be their influence ;
and, if two planets in conjunction have confiderable latitude of different
denominations, their influence will be thereby- much leffened. This
obfervation likewife holds good in directions; for, the nearer any pla­
net is to the ecliptic line, the greater will his influence be. Moreover,
their effects are either flrong or weak, in refpeCt of the horizon ; for,
when they are pofited in the mid-heaven, or pafs into the place fucce-
dent to the mid-heaven, they are very flrong and powerful ; the fame
alfo if they are in the horizon itfelf, or in any of the fuccedent houfes,
and more particularly when in oriental parts. But, when they are in the
imum ceeli, or otherwife pofited under the earth, their influence is very
weak, and of but little effeCt.
1 From
Digitized by Goi 'ole Original from
M P / i f v n u v D i i m i r i i b b a p v
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 409
From all the foregoing confnierations, it is evident that the efficient
power of the ftars is deduced from their peculiar and natural afpedts.
or proportional diftances, confidered in refpedt of the Sun, the angles,
and the quality of the ambient figns j and by the power and influence of
thefe afpe&s are all aftrological fpeculations governed. But how thefe
afpects were firft difcovered, and their virtues and proportions afcertained,
does no where appear; though it might be no difficult talk to account
for both upon philofophical and mathematical principles, fince nature
every where, as well in the motions and effedfs of the heavenly bodies,
as in all other arithmetical and geometrical refpedls, particularly cele­
brates thofe proportions above all others; Picus, fpeaking of the afpedts,
thinks mankind were led to the knowledge of them by obferving the
different phafes of the Moon ; for, when fhe is new, horned, in her
quarters, gibboffity, or at full, her forms are flill changed at thefe
proportioned diftances from the Sun ; befides which, it is to be obferved,
that in her annual revolutions fhe is conftantly found about the trine of
her own place in the beginning of the former year.
Other aftronomers, of eftablifhed reputation, have likewife obferved,
that nature particularly points to every configuration, while we confider
the motions of the other planets. Abohazer judicioufly affirms, that
the two inferior planets, in their ftations, defcribe the arch proper to a
quartile afpect ; and Pliny alfo recommends to our obfervation the trine
afpedt, conftantly formed by the ftations of three fuperior planets.
But, above all, it cannot be confidered without great admiration, how
wonderfully nature hath nobilitated all the afpedts in the motions of
Saturn and Jupiter. For, as their conjunctions are rare, and happen but
once in twenty years, fo hath nature evermore difpofed thefe conjunc­
tions in the moft remarkable parts of the zodiac, that is, in fuch figns
only as behold each other in an equilateral triangle infcribed. For, be­
tween any two great conjundtions of Saturn and Jupiter, there are nine­
teen Egyptian years, three hundred and eighteen days, and thirteen
hours, in which fpace of time thofe planets are moved from the place
of their former conjundtions eight figns and almoft three degrees; which
excefs of three degrees is the caufe why, after ten conjundtions, they pafs
from one triplicity to another, and one triplicity continues one hundred
ninety-eight equal years, two hundred fixty-five days, (the intercalary
day of every fourth year omitted,) and ten hours. But the revolution of
all the triplicities is finifhed only once in feven hundred ninety-four
equal years, three hundred thirty-one days, and fixteen hours; or other-
wife in feven hundred ninety-four Julian years, one hundred thirty-
three days, and fixteen hours ; which, being doubled, amounts to one
thoufand
Original from
MPWil v n Q V Dl IP I Ir I I P R A D V
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
thoufand five hundred and eighty-eight, which number of years thofe
authors are thought to have refpedted who confidered the year 1588
from the birth of Chrift would prove fo fatal.
From hence therefore it is, and not without fufficient caufe, that
-they are termed great conjundtions, both happening rarely, and abiding
in one triplicity almofl: two hundred years together, and not compleat-
ing all the triplicities of the zodiac in much lefs than eight hundred
years : confequently they have not yet gone through all the triplicities
eight times fince the beginning of the world. Neither are the other
afpedts formed by thefe planets to pafs unnoticed ; for whoever obferves
when Saturn and Jupiter behold each other by an oppofition or quartile
afpect, they will evidently perceive that they ftill carry fuch a regard
to the figns or places of their preceding and next conjunctions, as ever­
more to irradiate the one and the other with an oppofition, fextile,
quartile, or trine afpect; which I think is a fufficient proof that nature
hath allured us to the confideration of the archs formed by thefe afpects
in the particular motion of each refpective planet.
To confirm the virtues and effects of thefe afpects, we need only con-
' fider what phyficians are taught by experience, namely, that the crifis
^ of all acute difeafes has a palpable and extraordinary fympathy with
all thefe five configurations of the Moon, made to her place at the be­
ginning of the difeafe. Or, as a further proof, we need only refer to
what has already been faid relative to the tides, which conftantly
obfefve the motions of the Moon, their fpring and highefl floods al­
ways concurring with their conjunction and oppofition to the Sun, as
the neaps and loweft tides always do to her quarters. And it is
equally remarkable that the feas, in their daily ebbing and flowing upon
every coaft, have refpect only to fuch azimuthal circles, as are in a
quartile pofition when the Moon paffes by them. Again, the Sun mod
evidently manifefts great effects by the quartile afpect, fince he modi­
fies and governs the viciflitudes of feafons, or four quarters of the
year, by his ingrefs into the four equinodtial and tropical points of
the zodiac.
The power of thefe afpects is not injudicioufly ftated by Julius
Firmicus, in the arithmetical obfervation which he makes of the num­
ber of figns agreeable to the afpects, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, anfwering in pro-
greifive order to the conjunction, fextile, quartile, trine, and oppoli-
tion ; for thefe numbers only, and no others, will divide the zodiac,
confifling of twelve figns; for which reafon he makes them the only
aliquot
Digitized Go ale Original from
v n c t ' d i m i 1r i i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 411
aliquot parts of a circle. Ptolomy alfo added not a little to the dignity
of thefe irradiations, when he firft difeovered the geometrical propor­
tion which the fubtenl'cs of each of thefe archs bear in rel'pcd to the
diameter of a circle. Others again, with no lefs ingenuity, have ob-
ferved, that, amongft all regular or ordinate figures that may be inferibed
in a circle, though the fame be infinite, there are none whofe fides and
angles carry away the prerogative at the circumference and centre, hut
thofc whofe fides and angles are anfwerable to the fubtenfes and archs
of their afpeds. For, amongft all ordinate planes that may be inferibed,
there are no two whofe fides joined together have pre-eminence to oc­
cupy a femicircle, but the hexagon, quadrate, and equilateral triangle,
anfwering to the Textile, quartile, and trine irradiated. The fubtenfe
therefore of a Textile afpect confifts of two figns j and, joined to the fub­
tenfe of a trine, compolcd of four, being regular and equilateral, take
up fix figns, which is a complete femicircle. In like manner, the
Tides of a quadrate inferibed, fubtending three figns, and, twice reckoned,
alfo occupy the moiety of a circle. And what the foregoing figures are
faid to perform, either doubled or joined together, may alfo be found
in the alped of oppofition.; for the diametrical line which paffes from
the place of conjundion to the oppofite point, divides a circle into two
equal parts, a circumftance which cannot be found in any other inicripts.
For example, the fide of a regular pentagon fubtends feventy two de­
grees; of an odagon but forty-five; the remainders of which archs, viz.
one hundred and eight, and one hundred and thirty-five, degrees, are not
fubtended by the fides of any ordinate figure.
And thus, as the fubtenfes of thefe afpeds are the fame with the fides
of the foregoing inferipts, and only take up the circumference of a
circle; fo it is evident, that the angles at which they concur are the
fame wherewith the ordinate planes take up the whole fjpace about the
centre. For, if we confider the angle of a Textile alped at the earth, it
is all the fame with that of an equilateral triangle confiding of fixty
degrees, and contains two-thirds of a right angle; but fix times two
thirds of a right angle make four right angles; wherefore fix Textiles,
equal to fix equilateral triangles, fill the whole fpace about a point,
which is equal to four right angles. Secondly, every angle of a
quartile is a right angle, and the fame with the angle of a rectangle
quadrilater figure, four of which fill a whole fpace. Thirdly, the angle
which two ftars in a trine make at the centre of the earth, is meafured
by an angle of one hundred and twenty degrees, which is equal to the
angle of a regular hexagon, confiding of a right angle and one-third;
and, taken three times, makes four right angles; whereof three equila-
No. 2 1 . 5 G teral
Digitized by ( j O O Q I C
Original from
MCXA/ V H D F Dl ID I i r I I D B A R V
4.12 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
teral hexagons, or three trine afpe&s, alfo fill the whole fpace about the
centre. To thefe we may likewife add the afpedl of oppofition ; which
confifs of two right angles, and therefore being doubled will perform
the like operation with the reft; whilft any other figure of many angles,
however joined together, will either fall fhort of tour right angles, or
elfe exceed them. For inftance, the angle of a pentagon contains a right
angle and one fifth over, wherefore three fuch angles placed about a point
will fall fhort of four right angles by two fifths of a right angle ; whilft
on the other hand foui* fuch angles will exceed four right angles by
four-fifths.
Thefe fpeculations therefore duly confidered, it were fenfelefs to ima­
gine that nature hath fo many ways diftinguifhed thefe remarkable irra­
diations of the ftars in vain, or admonifhed us to a particular regard of
them, by lo many rare and fecret operations, as well in the motion of
the planets, as in their effcdls and proportions, if they were not endued
with more force and virtue than any of the others. Hence it has. given
fcope to the ingenuity and abilities of the learned to afiign a caufe, why
thefe few configurations, above all the others, fhould be endued with
fuch extraordinary efficacy. Nor has any reafon yet been given, with
more apparent probability, than that thefe proportions, whereof the
afpedfs are found to confift, areprecifely the fame with thofe which are
found in harmonical concords; for which reafon it is fuppofed no lefs
probable, that the rays of the ftars in thefe proportioned diftances, ffiould
powerfully affedt the matter of all fublunary things, by the fame rule
that the like geometrical fymmetry in founds and voices fhould ftir up
the fenfe and paflions of the hearer. And it is an eftablifhed obfervation
throughout the productions of nature, that, where due proportion is
not wanting, there the never fails to endue all her effedts with fuch an
height of perfection, as cannot but ftrike the fenfe and underftanding of
every obferver. And thus it is even in artificial compofitions, and in
medicines; for we know thefe only to be moft kind and fovereign,
which obferve a competent fymmetry or temperature of the adtivc and
paffive qualities. W ith great propriety, therefore, and with every ap­
pearance of truth, moft of the learned agree with Ptolomy, that the caufe
of this wonderful efficacy in the foregoing afpedls, proceeds in a great
meafure from harmonical proportion.
But more clearly to demonftrate this fimilitude or affinity between
the proportions of the afpefcts, and the like diftances obfefved in mufical
concords, we mull underftand that all harmony whatfoever originally
fprings from three fuch terms of numbers as refpedt each other in fuch a
manner.
Digitized by Goi. sle Original from
M C U i / Dl ID I i r I I D D A D V
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 413
manner, that their differences invariably retain the fame proportion as
is found between their extremes. F®r inftance, in thefe three numbers,
6, 4, 3, anfwering to the figns of the oppofition, trine, and quartile
configurations, it is evident, if we compare the extremes with the mean,
that 2 will be the difference between 6 the firft, and 4 the fecond,
number; and 1 is in like manner between 4 the middle or fecond,
and 3 the third, number; but 2 being double in proportion to 1, there­
fore 6, the firft number, refpedts 3, the third number, with the like
proportion. The analogy of which proportions, as before ftated, is
found to be the bafis of all mufic, arifing wholly from thefe three
fimple concording diftances, which by muficians are termed
confifting of a fefquialter proportion, as 6 to 4 ; or, which is all the
fame, of three or two ; diateJJ'aron, compounded of a fefquitertia, as 4
to 3; and d
i
a
p
a
f
o
n,confifting of a double proportion, as 6 to 3, or 2 to
i; and is equal to the two firft diftances and proportions put together.
For a fefquialter added to a fefquitertia, according to the rules of pro­
portion, will produce a diapafon, or double proportion, exactly fuch as
is found between the former extremes compared together, viz. as 6 to
3. In like manner, by comparing the diapafon with both thefe parts,
that is, with the fefquialter and fefquitertia, according to the cuftotnary
manner of fupputating proportions, we are brought to the two other
compounded or imperfect concords, fo conftituting the five firft'and na­
tural diftances in harmonical founds, that, being diverfly and judicioufly
varied between themfelves, produce an infinite variety of all kinds of
melody.
After the fame manner we'find it with regard to the light and in­
fluence of the heavens. For, although there are other afpeits attributed
to the ftars, both zodiacal and mundane, yet thefe five were anciently, and
are even now, obferved as being moft apt to aCtion, and moft powerful in
their etfe&s, namely, the conjunction, oppofition, trine, quartile, and
fextile; and there is nothing more certain, than that by the harmonical
mixture of thefe proportioned beams, the generation and corruption of
this mortal world is infinitely varied and governed. Wherefore, as the
force of all harmony, fo likewife the effectual reafon of all adtion in the
influence of the ftars, is properly deduced from the aforefaid fymmetry
of thefe diftances. But, more fully to illuftrate that the angles of the
afpedts, compared between themfelves, concur with thefe harmonic pro­
portions in mufic, let it be remembered, that ftars in an oppofite or dia­
metrical afpeCt are disjoined by the fpace of two right angles, which
are meafured with the arch of fix figns, or one hundred and eighty de­
grees of circumference; and that the trine, confifting of four figns, or
o;ie-
Digitized by Goi sle Original from
KIEMJ v n o t ' Dl ID I Ir I I D B A R V
4 H A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
c e hundred and twenty degrees, conftitutes one right angle and one
third of another j alfo, that the quartile afpedt takes up one entire right
angle, and is lubtended with the arch of three figns, or ninety degrees ;
ai d likewifc that a Textile is conftituted but of two figns, or fixty de­
grees, which is two thirds of a right angle. This being admitted, if
we now compare the two right angles of the oppofition, taken toge-
^ ther with the angles of the reft of the afpedts, and either the trine placed
~ between the oppofition and the quartile, or the quartile between
y the oppofition and the Textile, we (hall find either way three r.urn-
^ bers which admit all the laws of harmonic proportion, as becomes evU
1 dent by the following figures*.
The firft figure fufficiently.explains itfelf j but in the fecond, let the
• oppofition be compared with the Textile, and it will be found to have a
^ triple proportion to the Tame, compounded of a double and fel'quialter
^ proportion, as diapente is with diapafon in mulic; and hence it is found*
no fimple or perfedt afpedt, but exadtly anfwerable to B flat, the hrft
imperfedtor compounded concord in mulic, being a fixth from G re
u t •
,
which is neverthelefs in Tome refpedts efteemed perfedt, becaufe it
bears the fame divifion, compared to Df o l re, as the perfedt concords do;
for it is half a fifth, ^pd'fituate in the centre between r and D f o l re.
Again, tfie fextile afpedt compared with the trine, is juft one half there­
of, which has been already proved to be in a fefquialter proportion to
the oppofition, as D f o l re is to r u t, and therefore exactly correfponds
with the diapente in mufic, which I here take occafion to mention
* T he firft figure proves the three concords to have three perfe& afpe& s \ and the fecond
(hews the fextile to be an imperfect afpeft, agreeable to diapente cum diapafon, that is, a triple pro­
portion, as 60 is to 80.
again
Digitized by Got ale Original from
klCMJ D I I Q I I r I I D D A D V
OF A S T R O L O G Y .
again, becaufe I may hereafter allude to it when I come to fpeak of the
new afpects. What I have already faid will fuffice to ffiew the pfiilo-
fophical fpeculation of thofe who have afcribed the efficacy of the pla­
netary irradiations to the harmonical proportions which are found between
them; and, fince it is obvious that thefe afpects do really bear the fame
mutual refpect one towards another as all harmonical concords are found
to retain among themfelves, what reafon can be affigned, why nature’s
operations in the lights and influences of the heavenly bodies ffiould not
be governed by this fymmetry of proportion, in the fame manner as we
find to be univerfally admitted in the fcience of mufic ?
But all this rather ferves to illuftrate a fimile, and to prove that nature
has indeed dillinguiffied thefe proportions with extraordinary virtues
above any other, than to fatisfy the mind in the infinite variety of
founds and lights, thefe proportions only ffiould correfpond fo fweetly
in mufic, and be mod effectual in the operations of nature. Kepler,
with a fficw of plaufibility, has endeavoured to demonftrate, that God, in
the creation of the world, obferved the fame proportion in the magni­
tude and diftance of the celeftial fpheres that is found in the regular
folids which in geometry have their origin from the ordinate planes ;
and therefore concludes, that the motions of the heavenly bodies cor­
refpond moll fweetly, and co-operate moil powerfully together, when
the nature of fublunary things, endued, as he fuppofes, with a fenfitivc
faculty, apprehends and receives the beams of the liars by their con­
currence at the centre of the earth ; which anfwers to the ordinate
planes, from whence the regularity of thefe proportions is derived, as
the impreffed characters of that admirable fymmetry which God is laid
to have obferved in the creation of the world. And hence he fuppofes
that, as often as any earthly fubllance meets with thefe proportions, it is
affected as it were by this idea, and exercifed in fuch a manner, that
what it but ordinarily performs at other times it will now produce
with much more effect. Not that thefe proportions work any thing of
themfelves ; for, in mufic, it is neither the founds, nor the proportion
of the concords, that work any thing of themfelves, or beget any de­
light in the hearer; but the foul, approaching to the organs of fenfe,
there firfl entertains the founds inwardly, then regards their proportions,
and, finding the fame good and geometrical, lallly exhilarates itfelf, and
moves the body wherein it is as with an object wherein it takes delight.
Such alfo is the fympathy between the heavenly influences and all fublu­
nary matter, animate, or inanimate.
No. 2i. 5 H But,
Digitized by Google Original from
m c i a / v n o t ' di m i \r 1
u
u
i
i
i
c
m
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
z
.
e
u
/
i
ill|j.//v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
i
d
u
iiu
u
b
L
.
u
i
y
/
c
u
_
L
e
b
b
_
u
b
t
;
-
w
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
l
e
Digitize
416 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
But, be this conceit of Kepler’s as it may, we are not without fuffi-
cient geometrical demonftration, to fhew the reafon why thefe propor­
tions or irradiations of the ftars are more effe£lual than any others. For,
lince it is admitted that an union of beams affords the greateft influence,
fo it is allowed that the conjunction and oppofition are, for this reafon,
the moft potent and powerful configurations of all others, as is fhewn
by the following figure, where we find the beams, as well incident as re­
flected, to be united.
Por, let A be fuppofed in conjunction with B, it is firft manifeft that
all the beams flowing from G and E, the points of touch in the circum­
ference of A, fhall unite themfelves with the beams that are fent from
B to C, the earth’s centre. Secondly, we are alfo to obferve, that in
this cafe the beams A C , or B C, coming from the centre of the ftars,.
reflect only into itfelf, as being perpendicular j whereas thofe beams
which are fent from the points E and G make an acute angle at C, and
reflect the one into the other at equal angles ; as G C reflect from C to
E, and E C from C to G. Laftly, the union that happens in an oppofi­
tion is manifeft without any illuftration, where the beams fent from the
oppofite points make but one ftrait line, as G F, and E H , in the
foregoing figure.
^ G o o g l e
Origirral from
M C \ A / V n D F Dl I DI \r I I D D A D V
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 4i f
In like manner, in my contemplation, the configurations of the Tex­
tile and trine have a concurrence of their beams at the earth, and a mu­
tual reflection of the one into the other, and fo an union by reflection, as
in the following figure is manifeft.
For, admit A B C to be three ftars, A and B in a Textile configuration,
and A C in a trine ; then, for To much as B F, the beam incident of the
Textile, Tails obliquely in refpect of A F, and makes an acute angle there­
with, it is evident, to any one who has the fmalleft underftanding in
optics, that B F fhall reflect to C, and fo be united to C F, the inci­
dent of the ftar C, which is in a trine configuration with A. For the
fame reafon, C F fhall reflect to the ftar in B, and be alfo united with B
F, the incident of the ftar at B. And hence arife the grounds of that
familiarity in thefe archs of heaven, which Ptolomy has laid down as the
moft apt lor the apheta of life, or the houfes of the figure.
But the quartile afpect, whofe beams only cut each other ad
reSloSy and fo reflect into themfelves, derives its principal virtue from
the exact proportion of its angles in taking up the centre of the earth ;
and hence the myftery of thefe configurations wholly confifts in this, that
thefe irradiations only, and thofe that are derived from them, are pro­
portionable unto all patible matter, and therefore moft effectual. For
that thefe irradiations only are every way proportionable, has been al­
ready abundantly proved, whether we refpect their taking up thecircum-
ference, the power, and proportion, of their fubtenfes, unto the diameter,
or, laftly and principally, their occupying of place at the centre of the
earth by their angles, whereby they muft needs fhine upon all element <ry
A
m ater
Original from
MEl/i/ V n E k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D E
*!§ A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
matter with a due and even mixture of light and influence. And, fince
no other archs, fubtenfes, or angles, are found to enjoy thefe preroga­
tives, it is evident that thefe, above all others, have that fymmetry of
proportion which is neither defective, interrupted, nor redundant j but
l'uch are the archs, fubtenfes, and angles, of thefe irradiations, that thefe,
and no other, are exactly proportionable. Now as that which is defedtive,
and wants equality of proportion, leaves the action fruftrate and with­
out effect; fo that, which on the other hand offends inexcefs, muft needs
incur the contrary fault, and overcharge that which either nature or art
intended to perform ; whereby it will neceffarily follow, that, wherever
there is no defect, nor excefs, but an equal and juft mixture of the in­
fluence of the ftars in thefe irradiations, thefe only can be apt and pro­
per to produce perfect and agreeable effects in the formation and tempe­
rature of all fublunary things. For it happens in thefe effects which are
produced by the mixture of light and heat, juft the fame as in chemi­
cal operations, where a defect of heat produces nothing j while, on the
contrary, excefs will deftroy the whole, cither by fublimation, vitrifica­
tion, eruption, or the like.
Having thus fatisfactorily (hewn how the points of the ordinate planes,
whcreunto thefe configurations have been compared, often reiterated, do
take up place, I fhall now fet forth how the beams of any two ftars in
any one of the former configurations fhall occupy more fpace than that
which is comprehended between their incidents or beams of true motion;
and how by their beams, either incident, reflected, or oppofite, they
occupy and poffefs the whole centre of the earth at one inftant with pro­
portionable angles. To demonftrate this, in refpect to the conjunction
and oppofition, whofc force rather depends upon union than proportion,
I need only refer the reader to a view of the laft diagram but one, where
he will find that the united beams of fuch ftars as are in conjunction and
oppofition furround the centre, and all elementary matter whatfoever,
fubject to the actions of heaven. W ith regard to the quartile, whofe
beams incident and oppofite traverfe the centre of the earth at four right
angles, viz. at A F G, G F I, A F H, and H F I ; and feeing four
points of a rectangle quadrilater figure hath been already proved to occu­
py place j I likewife need no other proof, in this configuration, than that the
reader will in the laft figure obferve how thefe four right angles, made
by one quartile afpect, take up the centre of the earth. But, concerning
the trine and fextile afpects, we have yet more to confider; for, fuppofe
two ftars, A and B, in the laft diagram, irradiate the earth with their
fextile beams ; although it be true, that, by protracting the oppofite
beam from B to F, the centre of the earth feems occupied with propor-
3 tionable
Original from
M C \ A / v n o t ' Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
Digitized by Gc
kgle
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 419
tionable angles, B F A being fubtended by the ark of fixty degrees,
which is before declared to be the angle of an ordinate equilateral trian­
gle, and fo leaves the outward angle B F I equal to the angle of an ordi­
nate hexagon, fubtended here by the ark of one hundred and twenty de­
grees, which is the ark of a trine ; and the like being alfo found in the
angles made by the oppofite beams ad ; yet, neverthelcfs, we
muft here coofider how the incident beam of B, viz. B F, refledts into
C, and fo takes up the whole femicircle A B C I with three fextiles, viz.
A F B, B F C, and C F I. In like manner, if we fuppofe C to be in
a triangular configuration with A, it is evident that as the oppofite beam
of A, viz. F I, makes a fextile with the incident beam of a ftar at C, viz.
C F j fo C F, being the beam incident of the ftar at C, refledls alfo to
the point B, and fo makes the fame three fextile afpedts wherewith the
aforefaid whole femicircle is occupied, as above demonftrated, Thefe
confiderations will undoubtedly fatisfy the reader how any two ftars, in
either of the afpedts above alluded to, proportionably occupy the whole
centre of the earth in the fame moment of time, without reiterating the
fame angle.
I have hitherto only fpoken of what are termed the old configurations,
which are indifputably the moft excellent; but I fhall now mention
what are called the new ones, as introduced by the ingenious Kepler,
namely, the quintile confifting of feventy-two degrees ; the biquintile,
of one hundred and forty-four degrees ; and th of one
hundred and thirty-five degrees ; which afpedts, being added to the for­
mer, make eight configurations, anfwering to the eight confonant flops
in a monochord. Thefe new additions are by no means improperly made,
fince many eminent pradtitioners of this fcience have experienced their uti­
lity in fpeculations on the weather and meteors ; as well as in bringing
up the accidents of a nativity. Neither is there any want of philofophi-
cal or mathematical demonftrations to fupport them; for as in mufic
there are but three perfedl concords, namely, the diapafon, diapente,
and diateflaron ; fo in aftrology there are but three perfedt afpcdls anfwera-
ble to them, viz. the oppofition, the trine, and the quartile ; the fextile
having already been proved an imperfedt afpect, anfwering exactly to B
flat, the firft among the imperfect and compounded concords. Where­
fore, confidering that the firft three perfect concords are found to have
their perfect afpects anfwerable unto them, and that B flat, being an im­
perfect concord, is alfo found to agree exactly in proportion with the
fextile, being an imperfect afpect, this undoubtedly gave Kepler fuffici-
ent reafon to conceive that the other harmonical proportions contained in
the fame monochord might alfo have their afpects, namely, the quin-
No. 21. 5 I tile.
Digitized by Got gle Original from
m c x a / v n d i i m 1r 1 i d r
420 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
tile, biquintile, and fefquiquadrate, which are precifely found to cor-
refpond with them, and are in a fimilar degree effectual in their mode of
operation.
Thus having explained what the afpects or configurations of the pla­
nets really are, and proved that their power and influences are grounded
upon philofophical and mathematical principles, I (hall now proceed to
fhew their applications in the iflues of human life, from the conception
to the grave.
It is, I believe, univcrfally admitted, that the beginning of human
generation takes place at the time of conception ; and therefore we ought
to be exact in afcertairiing this time, and in confidering the effective
power of the configurations of the ftars, as they then happen to be pofited,
and from thence contemplate the qualities of the mind and body. For
in the beginning, although the feed at once aflumes a quality by the
communication of the circumambient matter, which at other times of
its formation and increafe becomes different ; yet naturally, as it in-
creafes, it retains its own proper matter, and is rendered more like the
peculiar nature of the firft quality, with which it was imprefl'ed at the
time of conception. But, if it be of fome importance to know the time
of conception, it is infinitely more fo to know the true time of birth ;
for by the firft, the accidents only before birth are known j but by the
fecond, thofe incident to our whole lives are to be difeovered. Where­
fore one may be called a beginning, and the other an after-beginning j
the firft, the generation of human Teed ; the fecond, that of man. For
in this ftate the infant aflumes many things which it had not when in the
womb, and thefe peculiar to human nature alone, and the formation of
the body. And although the properties of the celeftial and elemen­
tary matter feems to confer nothing at the time of birth in refpect to the
formation of the child, yet it operates moft forcibly upon it in other re-
fpects ; for nature, after perfecting the formation, difpofes the enluing
effect according to the ftate pf the former at the beginning. Hence it
is reasonable, in thofe whole time of conception is unknown, that the
configurations of the ftars formed at their birth, Ihould be fignificative ;
not that it wholly contains an effective power, but becaufe it neceflarily
hath a power by nature fimiiar to the effective. But it is always beft, if
the time of conception can be had, to compare it with the time of birth ;
for the time of conception fhews what fhall happen to the infant while in
the womb; as whether it (hall be ftrong or weak, firm or infirm, perfect or
imperfect, male or female. Angle or twins j or whether it fhall arrive to
the full and perfect time of birth. But the occurrences of life after birth
are to beconlidered from the polition of the heavens at the birth only.
2 Now
Digitized by G o o g l e
Original from
v n o ^ m i d i ir i i c d a r v
a
if
in
n
P
)
-
n
r
i#
^
c
;
n
q
c
^
-
n
p
/
f
i
i
m
<
;
n
n
il
h
p
i
i
-
aaaaaa
/
/
-
H
i
t
i
i
/
n
a
7
m
F
>
in
-a
ifin
n
c
^
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
O F A S T R O L O G Y * 421
Now, fince nothing can be predi&ed in aftrology without this funda­
mental guide, namely, the radix, or true time of birth, various me­
thods have been invented, in different ages, for the purpofe of afcertain-
ing this point with precifion, after the eftimate or iuppofed time is
given. And this is termed the rectification of nativities, becaufe the
time ufually noted down by parents or midwives is feldom correct, either
through inattention, or errors in clocks; but, by thefe rules, the diffe­
rence between the eftimate or fuppofed time, and the real, is difcovered
and corrected. This re&ification is done by various ways ; firft, by
theT rutineof Hermes; fecondly, by the Animoder of Ptolomy ; and,
thirdly, by accidents of the native’s life, which are alfo fivefold ; firft,
according to Argol ; fecondly, according to Kepler; thirdly, according
to Morinus ; fourthly, by the luminaries ; and fifthly, by a new and
more corrett method.
By the T rutineof Hermes, ere£t the figure to the eftimate time of
birth, and redtify the Moon’s place thereto; then take herdiftance from
the afcendant, if file be under the earth ; or from the feventh houfe, if
above the earth, by fubtra&ing the angles from the Moon’s place;
adding thereto the three hundred and fixty degrees of the zodiac, if fub-
trafction cannot be made without: then with the remainder enter the fol­
lowing table under the column of Moon’s diftance, and even with it, in the
fecond column, if the birth was in February ; in the third column, if in
January or December ; in the fourth column, if in April or September;
or in the fifth column, if in March, May, June, July, Auguft, October,
or November; will be found an equation of days to be added to, or fub-
tratded from, the day of birth, according to the letters A or S, at the
top of each refpedtive column, whofe iuin or difference gives the day of
the month in the month of conception ; always obferving, that, if the
year of birth be a leap-year, one day more mull be added.
T HE
Digitized by G
o<. gle Original from
M P w i / v n p ^ D i i m i r 1 i r r a b v
uuinani,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
i
e
u
/
m
ll|j.
7
/vv
v
v
v
v
.m
c
iliiili
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/d
n
_
e
^
b
_
u
b
e
-
w
-
f
j
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
e
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
T h e T A B L E .
1
Ddift A “ A A s Ddift; A A A A |
O O 3 2 1 ° 1 6 O 0 1 2 3
O *3 2 I s I j 5 17 I 2 J 4
_c
0 26 1 s I 2
A
5 4 2 3 4 5
Z
O
J
W t 9 s 1 2 3 1
L*
C
S
aq 4 21 3 4 5 6
1 21 1 2 3 4 ; 4 9 4 5 6 7
2 4 2 3 4 1 3 26 5 6 7 8
2 *7 3 4 5 6 1 £
*
«
*
S
s
3 iq
0 6 7 8 9
a
s i
0
0
3
3
0
13
4
5
5
6
6
7
7 !
8
e
0
0
3
2
0
17
7
8
8
9
9
10
10
II
§ 3 26 6 8 9 !§ 2 4 9 10 11 12
4 9 7 8 9 10
§
1 21 10 11 12 13
-
4 21 8 9
I
IO 11 1 9
t
11 12 *3 14
5 4 9 10 11 12 0 26 12 13 H 1.5
5 l 10 11 12 *3 0 *3 *3 14 15 16
6 0 1r 12 *3 14 0 0 T
4 15 16 17
If the birth was in January, the month of conception was A pril; if
February, the month of conception was May ; if March, June ; if
April, July ;
if May, Auguft; if June, September; if July, October j
if Auguft, November; if September, December; if October, January;
if November, February ; and, if December, March. Then bring the
Moon’s place, the day of conception, to the fign, degree, and minute,
afcending, at the eftimate time, for the true time of conception. Or
thus ; fubtraft the right afcenfion of the Sun at the eftimate time of con­
ception, from the right afcenfion at the eftimate time of birth, (taken in
the Table of Houfes right againft the Moon’s place, under the afcendant,
adding the three hundred and fixty degrees of the zodiac, as before, if
fubtradlion cannot otherwife be made;) the remainder, converted into
time, is the true hour and minute of conception. The degree and mi­
nute of the fign in which the Moon was pofited at conception is the
true degree and minute afcending at birth, according to the Trutine of
Hermes.
To
Digitizes by - G o g g l e Original from
M P A / V f l D ^ Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 423
To reftify by the Animoder of Ptolomy, ere£fc the figure as near as
poflible to the eftimate time of birth, and confider in what fign, and in
what degree of that fign, the new Moon happened that laft preceded the
birth ; or, if a full Moon more nearly preceded the time of birth than a
new, then note the degree of the fign wherein either of the luminaries
were pofited that were above the earth ; but, if one of the luminaries be
exactly rifing, and the other fctting, prefer that which is rifing. Then
obferve which of the planets hath moft dignities by triplicity, houfe, ex­
altation, term, or configuration, in the degree of fuch preceding new
Moon, or in the degree of the luminary above the earth, or that afcends
at fuch preceding full M oon; and alfo what fign and degree then afcend
upon the horizon, or that culminate or poflefs the cufp of the tenth
houfe ; and if the degree of the planet, dignified as above, be lituated
nearer the degree afcending than to the degree culminating, place the
fame degree in number of the fign afcending upon the cufp of the
afeendant that fuch ruling planet pofleffed of the fign he was in. But,
on the contrary, if the planet be nearer the degree on the cufp of the
tenth houfe or medium coeli than to the afeendant, then the degree
culminating, or pofleflifig the cufp of the midheaven, mud be made
the fame with the degree the faid planet was in ; and fo, according to
the fign and degree thus afeertained, mud the other houfes of the
figure be varied ; and this will be the true time of the native's birth.
But, if it fhould happen that two planets have equal dignities in the
degrees aforefaid, prefer that which is pofited the ncareft to the afeen­
dant. Ptolomy further obferves, that what fign the Moon is in at the
time of birth is the very fign which afeended at the conception ; and
again, whatever fign the Moon is in at conception, that, or the oppofite.
Will be the fign afcending at birth.
To rectify by accidents, according to the method of Argol, fet the
fcheme exactly to the eftimate time, and draw it into a fpeculum ; then
run down the columns in the fpedulum belonging to the afeendant and
medium coeli, confidering what directions might moft probably fignify
the accidents given, obferving the afeendant for accidents befalling the
body ; the medium coeli for things relating to credit or reputation, as
trade, honour, dilhonour, preferment, &c. and convert the time of the
accident into an arch of direction, by Naibod’s meafureof time; and then,
finding the true, right, or oblique, afeenfionof the promifior with lati­
tude, if he hath any, from which fubtradting the arch of direction, the
remainder will be the right alcenfion of the medium cceli, or oblique
afeenfion of the afeendant. If it be the oblique afeenfion of the afeen
dant, fubtract ninety degrees from it, the remainder will be the righ
No. 21. 5 K afeenuo”
Original from
MC\A/ V r i D t ' Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by Go*.>sle
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
DigitL
afcenfion of the medium caeli corrected, between which and the right
afcenfion of the medium cceli of the fuppofed time take the difference
which add or fubtract to or from the fuppofed time, according as the right
afcenfion of the medium cceli did increafe or decreafe, and the fum or
difference is the true time of birth required.
Secondly, according to Kepler, gather a table of the Sun’s place for
eighty, ninety, or one hundred, days, more or lefs, immediately fucceed-
ing the day of birth ; then, having the time of the accident, number fo
many days of the Sun’s motion as there were years elapfed from the
birth, making proportion for the odd days, and find the Sun’s place at
that time, with the right afcenfion thereof, which fubtract from the
oblique afcenfion of the promiffor denoting the accident, added to two
hundred and feventy degrees, the remainder is the right afcenfion of time
c o r r e c t e d ;where note, that, having fet the figure to the eftimate time,
calculate the Sun’s place thereto, and find the difference between that
and his place at noon the day of birth j which, if it exceeds his place of
birth, fubtract 'the aforefaid difference from his place at noon, agreeing
with that day fignifying the number of years in which the accident
happened; but, if it be lefs, add j fo fhall the difference or fum be the
Sun’s direction for years complete ; then, for the odd days of the acci­
dent, if any be, find the Sun’s diurnal motion, in the faid collection,
againft the day fignifying the faid number of years, and fay, as three
hundred and fixty-five days fix hours are to the Sun’s diurnal motion,
fo are the faid odd days to the odd minutes, which are to be added to the
Sun’s direction aforefaid, which fum is the Sun’s true place at the time
of birth. But, to rectify it by an accident compared with the medium
cceli, fubtract the right afcenfion of the Sun, found by the former rule
for the year and day of the accident, from the right afcenfion of the pro­
miffor, (by adding three hundred and fixty degrees, if fubtraction cannot
be made without,) and the remainder is the right afcenfion of time cor­
rected.
Thirdly, according to Morinus, to rectify the afeendant or medium
cceli by a direction to the conjunction or oppofition of the promiffor of
any accident is exactly the fame with Argol j but, if it be to the fextile,
quartile, or trine, of any fuch promiffor, firft find their latitude, and
then in all refpects follow the fame method as is above given in the di­
rections of Argol.
To rectify by the luminaries, proceed as follows : If no direction of
either angles will anfwer to the accident given* and it be eminent*
confider
r . o .oip Original from
m h a / v n d v D i i m 1r 1 i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 425
confider the pofition of the luminaries, and fee what diredlion of either
of them might moft probably fignify the fame; which done, find the
luminaries pole of pofition exadily for its place in the eftimate figure,
under which pole diredt the faid luminary to the faid probable promiffor,
and find the difference between that and the time of the accident convert­
ed into an arch of direction ; then make a fecond fuppofition, at the
pole of pofition, working as before; and, noting the difference between
the arches of the two diredtions, fay, as the difference of thefe two arches
is to the difference in the poles of pofition, fo is the firft aforefaid dif­
ference to the difference between the firft fuppofed pole of pofition
and the true pole of the luminary propofed ; but it is neceffary here,
that the eftimate time be given pretty exadt. Thus, having found the
true pole of pofition, it gives the true oblique afcenfion or delcenfion of
the luminaries, with its diftance from the meridian ; by which may be
found the medium cceli corredt, and thereby the true time of birth.
Befides thefe, there are feveral new methods of rectifying nativities
by accidents. For inftance, fet the figure to the eftimate time, and
draw a fpeculum thereto; in which, befides the afpeCts *of the planets,
infert alfo the afpedts which the afeendant and medium cceli make with
every fign; this done, confider what promiffors occur to a conjunction,
fextile, quartile, trine, or oppofition, of the afeendant or medium cceli,
and for every year account one day in the Ephemeris to the year current
in which the accident happened, find that promiffor’s place (in that
day adhering to the year current) for the eftimate time of birth ;
faying, as twenty-four hours is to the planet’s diurnal motion, fo are
the hours and minutes elapfed from noon to the minutes to be added or
fubtraCfed to or from the planet’s place at noon that day according as
the faid planet was either diredt or retrograde; then, laftly, as three hun­
dred and fixty-five days fix hours are to that promiffor’s diurnal motion,
fo is the number of days elapfed from the birth (at the termination of
which the accident fell out) to the minutes to be again added or fub-
tradted to or from the aforefaid place of the faid promiffor, as he was
diredt or retrograde; to which very degree and minute the afeendant or
medium, cceli rauft be brought. But, if there be no direction of the
afeendant or medium cceli to fignify that accident, confider what other
fignificator, being diredted to any likely promiffor, might effeCl the
fame ; and, in the Ephemeris, againft that day fignifying the number of
the years current, for the eftimate time of birth find the place of the faid
promiffor; then fay, as three hundred and fixty-five days fix hours are
to twenty-four hours, fo arc the days elapfed (in which the accident
happened from the birth-day) to their proportioned part: fecondly, as
twenty-four
Digitized by G
o<. sle Original from
MPWW v n u t ' Dl IDI i r I ID D A D V
426 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
twenty-four hours are to the fignificator’s diurnal motion, fo is the afore-
faid proportional part to the minutes and feconds, which are to be fub-
dutted out of the place of the aforefaid promiflbr; and the remainder is
the exact place of the faid fignificator at the true time of birth. In this
cafe it will be neceflary to have the eftimate time very near, and that
the Sun, Venus, Mercury, or the Moon, be fignificators; and Saturn,
Jupiter, or Mars, or their afpeCts, promiflors j otherwife, if the more
.weighty planets be lignificators, take the diurnal motion of the promifTor
and work as before ; fubducting thefe minutes and feconds from the
fignificator, and the remainder is the exaCt place of the promiflbr at the
true time of birth. If yet no direction appears, which may lignify the
given accident, confider the Moon’s directions on the right-hand page of
the Ephemeris, againft the day fignifying the year current in which the
accident happened j and, allowing two hours for a month, fubtraCt the
days elapfed from the birth-day from the hours and minutes, adhering
to the lunar afpect, and the remainder will be the hour and minute of
birth corrected. The fame obfervation likewife holds good with refpect
to the mutual afpects.
But the Ihorteft, eafieft, and moft Ample, way of rectifying a nativity,
and which includes all the perfections of the foregoing, provided the
eftimate time does not exceed two hours of the real, is as follows.
HavingereCted the figure to the eftimate time, obferve whether either of the
luminaries be pofited in the centre of any one of the three prime angles,
namely, the afcendant, medium coeli, or feventh houfe, or near them;
and, if fo, bring either of them to the cufp of the angle, and the
degree and minute they were in is the true time of birth. But, if
neither of thefe are found thus centrically pofited, nor near the cufps of
either of thofe anglds, then bring them to a right parallel from angles,
and that will be the true time. If their pofitions Will not admit of
this, obferve the two benefic planets Jupiter and Venus, and note
whether either of them are fituated as above fpecified, namely, in the
centre of the angles, or in a right parallel with either of the luminaries,
that is to fay, with the Sun by day, or the Moon by nighty and either
of thefe brought to the cufps as before, will give the true time of
birth. So likewife either of the malefic planets Saturn and Mars, if
found pofited in the centre of the angles, or near their cufps, or in
parallel to either of the luminaries as above, will be the prorogator of
life, and likewife (hew the true time of birth ; but thefe Iaft pofitions
are rarely if ever found in the fchemes of grown pcrfon’s nativities,
-becaufe their influences, if not corrected by the rays of benevolent
3 ftars*
Original from
m p \a/ v n r v d i i d i ir i i d d a d v
Digitized by Gc
ksle
O
' F A S T R O L O G Y . 427
liars, are of fo deftru&ive a tendency, that they generally cut off life
in a lhort time, either in infancy, or at leall in the full ftage of life.
Now, having brought a nativity from its ellimative or fuppofed time
to that of the real, we are next to confider its proper and contingent
parts and fignifications, fo far as they relate to accidents before birth, and
to thofe after the fubjedl comes into the world ; as alfo to parents,
brethren, and relations, of the native. The particular confiderations
before birth relate to fcx, as whether the infant be male or female ;
and likewife to number, as whether there be twins or not. The caufes
of deformity, of monfters, and of thofe which perifh in the womb for
want of nourilhment, are alfo included in this part of the dodtrine of
nativities. But the particular fubjedls of enquiry after birth relate to
the length of life and form of the body j to bodily difeafes, and
accidental hurts and blemifhes of the members j to the faculties of the
mind and mental affeblions. They likewife include the future fortune
of the native, as well in poffeffions as in dignities; and alfo in the
quality of his adtions. Then concerning marriage and procreation j the
harmony of friends, and animolity of enemies; next of travelling ;
and, Jaftly, of death.— But the confideration concerning death is natu­
rally joined to that which relates to the fpace of life, fince it (hews the
quality and mode of its termination.
It may naturally be alked, how thefe events are feverally and refpec-
tively dillinguilhed ? To explain this, let it be always remembered, that,
for any particular event, we are to refer to fuch peculiar place in the
zodiac as is proper to that fpecies of action in the geniture concern­
ing which we are about to enquire. And, whatever liar is found to
have dominion in fuch place, either by triplicity, houfe, exaltation,
term, or configuration, fuch liar lhall have dominion of the event. But,
if two or more liars lhall be found in thefe feveral pofitions, then that
liar which has familiarity by moll ways, namely, that has the majority
of dignities, lhall be taken as ruler of the event, and lhall alfume the
dominion accordingly. The quality of the event is always known from
the nature of thefe ruling liars, added to that of the figns in which thofe
liars are pofited, and the familiarities they have with the other fignifi-
cant parts of the heavens. The extent and importance of the event is
Jtnown from the lordlhips and dominions of thefe ruling liars, according
to their llrength or weaknefs in refpect of their afpects in the world and
the geniture. They are llrong in refpect of the world, when they are
in proper places, or oriental, or augmented ; and in refpect of the ge-
niture, when they make their tranfits on the angles, or fuccedent houfes;
N
o. 2 i . 5 L but
Original from
M P A i V f l R k ' Dl I P I i r I I P P A R V
Digitized by Google
but particularly when they occupy the cufps of the afcendant or mid-,
heaven. And they are deemed weak in rcfpect of the world, when they
are in occidental places, and flow, retrograde, and diminifhing their
courfes; but weak in refpect of the geniture, when they are in cadent
houfes, or falling from the angles. The general time of the event is
known from thefe ruling ftars being orientally or occidentally pofited in
refpect of the Sun and the ho.rofcope, and from their being in the angles
or fuccedent houfes; for, when they are matutine or angular, they are
quick ; but, when occidental or vefpertine, flow.
Thefe things being premifed, it follows that the firfl confideration upon
^>- the face of a geniture is that which relates to the parents of the native.
^ The Sun, therefore, and Saturn, reprefmt the perfon of the father j and
the Moon and Venus that of the mother; and, as thefe are found
afflicted among themfelves, of otherwife, fo we underftand the accidents
appertaining to parents will be. The ftars that are configurated with
the luminaries fhew what relates to their fortunes and poflefflons ; for, if
they are furrounded by the benefics, and by fuch as are of the fame
nature, and in the fame figns, or the fucceeding, their fortunes will be
illuftrious and fplendid ; particularly if the Sun be configurated with
oriental ftars, or the Moon by occidental. If Saturn and Venus be ori­
entally pofited, or angular, they forefhew happinefs according to the par­
ticular circumftance;? of each parent. If the luminaries are of ,
and in no good afpect with the fortunate ftars, a low condition, or an
ignoble life, is prenoted : but, if the luminaries are varioufly configu­
rated with good and evil ftars, a mediocrity and inequality in the fortunes
of the parents is thereby demonftrated j as when Mars afeends to the
Sun, or Saturn to the Moon, and the benefics in different conditions.
Again, if the part of fortune in the nativity is found in a good pofition,
with the ftars configurated with the Sun and Moon, the. affairs of the
parents will be prol'perous; but, if it be difeordant, and fituated in a bad
place of the figure, with malefic ftars, their concerns will turn out inju­
rious and unprofitable.
The length and fhortnefs of life muft be confidered from other confi­
gurations. If Jupiter or Venus are any way joined in afpect with the Sun
or Saturn, or if Saturn hath an harmonizing configuration with the Sun,
that is, if they behold each other by a fextile or trine, and ftrongly dig­
nified in other refpects, they proinife long life to the father. But if
thefe pofitions are found weak, with Mars dignified above the Sun, and
Saturn in quartile or oppofition, the father will be taken off in the early
part of his life. The drftinctions which relate to the mother are thefe.
3 If
Digitized by Goc gle Original from
m c u m v n o k ' m i m i r i i r b a p v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 429
If Jupiter is configurated to the Moon or Venus, or Venus alone beholds
the Moon by a Textile or trine afpedl, the mother will enjoy health and
longevity; but, if Mars be pofited in any of the angular or fucceedent
houfes, beholding the Moon or Venus with a quartile or onpofition; or
if Saturn is thus configurated with the Moon, flow in motion, and de­
clining from angles ; they induce the diredl contrary effedts, and pro­
claim adileafed and fhort life to the mother. Thus from the nativity of
a child may the principal concerns of the father and mother be fought
out, and ascertained ; and fuch is the fympathy exifting by this bond of
nature and confanguinity, that little difference will be found, if com­
pared with the proper nativity of each parent.
But, to give judgment in fuch cafes with correflnefs, feparate fchemes
mull be erefted for the father and mother, by the following rule. In
the figure eredled for the father, if the nativity be diurnal,, note the
degree in which the Sun is pofited in the child’s nativity, and make that /
the degree afcending upon the horofcope for the father; and conforma­
ble to that order the cufps of all the other houfes, by the rules hereto-'
fore laid down. If the figure be eredted for the mother, then take the
degree of Venus, inftead of the Sun, and proceed in all other refpedts
the fame. But, if the nativity be notlurnal, take the degree of Saturn for
the father, and that of the Moon for the mother. And in all thefe cafes
it mult be obferved, that the nativity of the firft-born is to be pre­
ferred, then that of the fecond, and fo on. And that whatever is pre­
noted in relation to the parents from thefe figures, is only fuch as fliall
happen to them after the birth of the child, and not to any thing before.
The time in which any or each of thefe events will happen, is to be
fought out by the archs of direction, or diftances of that liar which hath
the dominion in refpedt of the Sun and the angles of ,the world ; and
this I (hall make perfedtly eafy to the meanefl underftanding, when I
come to treat of directions in general.
Now the next confederation in the native’s geniture is the place of
brethren, and this is taken from the fign on the mid-heaven, and the
maternal place, which is the pofition of Venus by day, and the Moon by
night; for, as this can only relate to children born of the fame mother,
this fign, and that which fucceeds it, being maternal, naturally confti-
tutes the place of brethren. This place, therefore, being configurated by
benevolent ftars, denotes plenty of brethren, becaufe the increafe of bro­
thers and fillers happens according to the multitude of liars, and from
their being fituated in double-bodied figns, or in thofe of one form.—
But, if the malefics have fuperiority in number or power, or are adverle
by
Digitized by Go*, gle Original from
M c u / 01 i p 11r 1 i p p a p v
Digitize
430 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
by oppofition, paucity of brethren will happen, particularly if unbe-
nign ftars circumfcribe the Sun. If the contrariety of afpects be in an­
gular houfes, efpecially in the afcendant, Saturn will procure thofe that
are firft nourifhed, and firft born ; and Mars will induce to fewnefs and
death. Moreover, if the flats which give brethren are well-affected ac­
cording to mundane fituations, the general fortunes of the brethren will
be glorious and famous ; but mean and obfcure if the contrary pofitions
happen. If the malefics be fu'perior in number and ftrength to the
ftars which give brethren, their confutations will ‘
be puny, and their
lives fhbrt.
And here alfo we may obferve, that from the geniture of one brother
the principal incidents of the life of another may be difcovered, .by con-
ftituting the place of the given planet as an horofcope, that is, the planet
which has principal rule in the houfe of brethren, whether by day or
night. The method is to place this ruling planet, with the fame de­
gree he is found in, upon the afcendant, furnifhing the cufps of all the
other houfes by this ftandard, as before ftated in the cafe of parents. It
moft however always be remembered, that mafeuline ftars produce
males, and feminine females. Alfo if the ftars which denote brethren, and
that which has rule in the houfe of brethren, agree by any harmonious
configuration, they will be well-affected towards each other, and live in
friendfhip and concord; but, if thefe ftars are found in contrary pofi­
tions, and in figns inconj-unct, enmity and hate will.mark theirxonduct
towards each other.
The foregoing fpeculations are deduced from an inveftigation of the
pofitioft of the heavens at the time of birth; but, in.order to know whe­
ther the infant be male or female, during the ftate of pregnancy, the
time o f conception-only muft be confidered. .Forthis purpole, we muft
particularly obferve the-pofitionof both the.luminaries in refpect to the
horofcope at the time of conception, together with the fituations of
all the ftars which have a regard to them ; and whether the ruling ftars
are eonftituted of a mafeuline or feminine nature. For the production of
males -and females is according to the diftinction of mafeuline and fe­
minine ftars, which I have already fhewn proceeds from the nature of
the figns in which they are pofited, and from their mutual and mundane
refpect j for, being oriental, they are mafeuline; but, occidental, femi­
nine. The fame likewife'in refpect to the Sun; for, being oriental, they
are referred to the made; and, occidental, to the female. Therefore thofe
which have the greateft powerin thefe refpects at the time of conception
will give fufficient grounds fto conjecture-at the faxof the infant for
months before it is both.
So
Google Original from
MPlAf V n P I r ' DIIDI IT I I C R A D V
t> F A S T R O L O G Y . 431
So likewlfe the fame confederations hold good, in Tome refpefts, con­
cerning twins, or more } for herein wc are principally to regard the two
luminaries, and the afcendant. For it happens through the mixtures
which are occafioned when thefe poflefs bicorporal figns, or when the
ruling planets are fituated in them, and many prolific ftars caft their rays
to the fame, that it will be a plural conception. The number then
generated is known from the ftar which induces the propriety of the
number; but the fex is determined by the ftars configurated with the
Sun, Moon, and horofcope. For we find from obfervation, that, when
both the luminaries are in the mid-heaven, twins are procreated ; when
Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, have configuration with the afiigned places
in bicorporal figns, three males are generated; but three females, when
Venus, Luna, and Mercury, are configurated in the fame manner. Saturn,
Jupiter, and Venus, thus difpofed, produce two males and one female; but
Venus, Luna, and Mars, two females and one male. Thefe configu­
rations but rarely happening at the time of conception, render it a kind
of phenomenon whenever they occur ; and hence we generally find the
births that follow in confequence are ranked amongll the wonders of
the day in the public prints, though the caul'e has a radical foundation
in nature. And hence too it is, that, as thefe configurations are more or
lefs imperfectly made, fo will be the quality of the conception, either
bringing all into life uniform and perfedt at the birth, or elfe bringing
one with good conformation, and another with puny, imperfedt, or mon-
ftrous, members.
There are alfo certain configurations of the ftars, which abfolutely pro­
duce moles or monfters in every conception that takes place under
them. Thus it happens when the luminaries decline from angles, and
fall cadent, without any kind of afpedt to the afcendant, and when the
cardinal houfes are occupied by the malefic planets. But, to deferibe
the fpecies of unnatural birth, it is neceffary, in thefe configurations, to
obferve the place of the laft full Moon preceding the time of conception,
together with the ruler thereof, and the lord of the luminaries ; for, if
the places of thefe fignificators have no familiarity with the place of the
faid preceding full Moon, what is then generated will be of unnatural
conformation. If the luminaries are at the fame time pofited in four-
footed figns, and the two malefic planets in angular houfes, what is
then conceived will not be in human fhape; but, if Jupiter or Venus in-
terpofe their benevolent rays, and give teftimony to the luminaries, then
what is conceived will be of human conformation, but of a fierce and
favage nature. If Mercury correfponds with the luminaries, the dif-
pofition will be agreeable to nature, but the form of the body will be
No. 22. 5 M unnatural;
Original from
M C \ A / v n o t ' DI ID I I r I I D D
Digitized by Go< gle
43* AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
unnatural; or, if the luminaries be in human figns, and the ruling planet
•difcordant, then the offspring will be of proper conformatioon, but tnon-
ftrous in quality. If one of the malefic ftars give teftimony in any of
the foregoing pofitions, what is then generated will be irrational, or of
ungovernable qualities; but, if Jupiter or Venus give teftimony, the
offspring will naturally poffefs the mental accomplifhments, with an her-
maphroditical conformation. If Mercury alone gives teftimony to the
aforefaid pofitions of the luminaries, that which is procreated will be
deaf, and perhaps dumb, though intelle&ually well qualified, and in­
genious. Thefejpeculations are doubtlefs abftrufe, becaufe fuch con­
figurations feldom happen, and the refult of them is very little known ;
but, to confirm their effedt, I have only to recommend to thofe who
have their doubts, to be guided by obfervation, and to decide by the re­
fult; for, the more we enquire into the pathlefs ways of nature, the more
readily we deduce a radical caulefor all her productions.
But here I muft not omit to remark, that the time of conception, and
that only, is to be referred to for the conformation or accidents of the
child in the womb ; and the time of birth for what ftiall happen after;
notwithftanding there is always fuch a concurring agreement between
the conception and birth, that whatever is produced by the former is
in a great meafure to be difcovered from the latter, though not wholly
corredt, or to be relied upon as infallible. Thofe therefore, who are
born in their natural fhape, and afterward become crippled and lame,
even to a monftrofity, yet, fince not brought into the world with the na­
tive, they fall under the defcription of blemifties, or bodily infirmities,
rather than the refult of monftrous and unnatural conformations.
Diftindt from this fpecies of conception, is that which, though per-
fedtly natural and well conformed, yet is void of ftamina, and hence
termed an embryo not nourifhed. This kind of conception happens when
one of the luminaries, in an angular pofition, is joined with a malefic
ftar, and that luminary giver of life. So likewife, if the parallel of
longitude between the malefic planet and the luminary be partile, or
according to a figure of equal fides, and none of the fortunes correfpond-
ing, and at the fame time the lord of the luminaries be pofited in a dif-
cordant place, what is then generated cannot be nourifhed, but decays
in the womb, or expires foon after the birth. Or, if they are not equi-
laterally configurated, but the two malefic planets nearly irradiate the
places of the luminaries, afflicting both, or only one of them, no matter
whether the malefics be fuccedent oroppofite, fo one or both of them be
in partile configuration with the luminaries; for whatever is born under
3 fuch
Digitized by Google Original from
m p u i v n o k ' d i i d i i r i i r r a r v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 433
fuch influences will be of no duration, fince the greatncfs cf the power
of the malefics will deftroy what fhould necefiarily conduce to the nou-
rifhment of life.
It is particularly to be obferved, that Mars afflifls the Sun by fuc-
ceflions, and Saturn the Moon ; but by oppofitions the contrary hap­
pens ; for in thefe the Sun is affli&ed by Sat urn, and the Moon by M ars;
and this affli&ion is the more eminent when the malefic ftars are fignifi-
cators, and by that means become fuperior both to the luminaries and
the horofcope. From thefe obfervations, fubordinate effects have been
afcertained ; for, when there are two oppofitions of the malefic ftars, and
the luminaries fituated in angles, whatever follows that conception will
be ftill-born. But if at this time the luminaries are feparating from the
benefic planets, or are in any other afpect with them, carting their
beams at that time in a converfe direftion, the fcetus will obtain anima­
tion, and be found alive and perfect at the birth ; but will live only fo
many months, days, or hours, as there are degrees, minutes, or feconds,
of the folar motion, between the beams of the Apheta and the neareft
malefic planet. But if the malefics caft their beams to the parts preced­
ing the luminaries, and the benefics to the degrees following, what is
born will l’
uffer great afflictions, and ftruggle much with infirmities, but
fhall recover and live.
And hence the confideration that naturally follows regards the dura­
tion or fpacc of life, which, taking in the whole compafs of human pur-
fuits, and the duration and viciflitudes of them, doubtlefs becomes the
moft interefting part of the doctrine of the ftars. The mode of afeer-
taining this important point, namely, the fpacc or duration of the na­
tive’s life, is defined from a companion of the aphetic, hylegiacal, or
prorogatory, places, with the killing or anaretical places in thegenethliacal
figure, at the time of birth. The aphetic place is the fituation of the
Apheta, Hyleg, Prorogator, Significator, or giver of life, for they have
all the fame meaning j and, the anaretic place is the fituation of the
Anareta, or killing planet ; and, whenever thefe fhall meet together, or
be conjoined in a bodily afpect, the native will find a termination of life;
confequently the length of time, in which the Apheta and Anareta,
as policed in each refpective figure of a nativity, will be in forming a
conjunction, or coming together in the fame point of the heavens, is the
precife length of the native’s life; and this period is afcertained by what
we term arches of direction, equated by the folar motion, and reduced
to common time. The method of afeertaining thefe aphetical and
anaretical places, of finding the arches of direction, and of reducing
them
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
ME\A/ v n o k ' Dl ID I i r I ID D A D V
434 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
them to the common meafure of time, fhall be copioufly explained
after we have taught the mode of afcertaining the particular occurrences
of the native’s life, from the face of the horofcope, or genethliagal
figure.
O f the FO RM and TEM PER A TU R E of the BODY.
If thefpace of life appears likely to exceed childhood, we are next to
confider and define the ihape and figure of the native’s body, according
to the rules heretofore laid down. The parts of the body are formed
before the foul ; and, becaufe it is infinitely more grofs, hath a connate
and almoft apparent endowment of temper. But the foul, not being
communicated to the body till the entire conformation thereof be wholly
perfected, manifefts by degrees an aptitude proceeding from the firft
caufe, but much later than thofe of the external accidents ; and therefore
it requires fome length of time before the nature and progrefs of this
mental aptitude can be known. As to the form and temperature of the
body, that is generally deferibed from the oriental horizon, and from
fiuch of the planets as bear rule in it, or have the dominion thereof;
together with their particular and refpective configurations with the
Moon ; for according to the quality of thefe two places, and the nature of
the ruling ftars, the formative virtue, and the temperament in each fpe-
cies, with reference to the declination of the afeending fixed ftars, is the
particular formation of bodies defined.
To what has been already faid, concerning the effects of each planet
refpectively, in giving fhape to fuch infants over whofe nativities they
prefide, we muft likewife add the peculiar force and operative faculty of
the luminaries, with which they may then happen to be configurated.—
If the Sun co-operates, it contributes much towards the production of a
more comely and majeftic perfonage, and of a mild and good habit;* and
the Moon, when fhe withholds her defluxion, caufes a more propor­
tionate, flender, and moift, temperament; but varioufly, according to the
nature and qualities of her feveral quarters. Again, if the luminaries
correfpond with oriental rays, they add to comelinefs and ftature; or, if
ftationary, they make the native ftrong and robuft. But, when they
occidentally concur, difproportionate formations and evil temperaments
are commonly the refult.
In this fpeculation, the different effects of the four quadrants are
likewife to be confidexed ; that from the vernal equinox to the fummer
tropic
* i
Digitized by Google Original from
M C l / U Dl ID I \ C I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 435
tropic gives the native an excellent complexion, comely, of a good
ftature, abounding with heat and moidure. But the quadrant from the
fummer tropic to the autumnal equinox gives but an indifferent com­
plexion, though the body is well proportioned, healthy, and vigorous,
abounding with heat and drincfs. That from the autumnal equinox to
the winter tropic gives a fanguine complexion, with a (lender, lean,
and fickly, habit, abounding with drinefs and cold. The quadrant from
the winter foldice to the fpring equinox gives a dark complexion, with
a moderate dature, fquare and drong, abounding with cold and moif-
ture. This is to be underflood in reference to the (igns afcending, and
in which the Moon and other fignificators refpedtiveiy bear rule. But
it is more particularly to be obferved, that the figns which are of hu­
man form, both in the zodiac and without it, make bodies of a mod
excellent fymmetry and proportion j while thofe which are not of hu­
man form adt contrariwife, deranging the proper rules of proportion,
and influencing from the properties eflfential to an elegant (hape to that
of difproportion and deformity.
O f the radical Caufe of B L E M I S H E S and B O D I L Y
D I S E A S E S .
From a flmilar hypothefls to the above, we derive the obfervation of
external blemifhes and bodily difeafes, with all the common accidents
of the human frame, to which the native is expofed during the courfe of
his life. The mod approved mode of afcertaining and didinguifhing
thefe is by regarding the eadern and wedern angles of the horizon, but
particularly the wedern, and the part preceding, which is the fixth
houfe, for that is inconjundt with the oriental angle. Thefe angles
being properly taken, we (hould next obferve the malefic dars, and how
they are configurated j for, if both or either of them are pofited upon tha
afcending parts of the faid angles, either bodily or by quartile or oppo-
fition, there will be external blemifhes, or bodily infirmities, infe-
parable from the perfon then born. Or, if both the luminaries, or only
one of them, be angular, as above defcribed, either in conjundlion or
oppofition, with a malefic dar afcending, they will produce fuch infir­
mities or blemilhes as the particular places of the horizon and figns then
afcending, and as the nature of the malefic and ill-affedted dars, (hall
refpedtively manifed j for in this cafe, as in all fimilar ones, the degrees
of the figns which are upon the afflidted part of the horizon will (hew
the particular part of the body wherein the infirmity is, whether it be a
blemidi or difeafe, or both; and the nature of thofe dars will likewife
point out the caufe and quality of the fymptom.
No. 22. 5 N Blemilhes
Digitized by Goo<?le Original from
M O A f D fc' n i ID I I r I I D D A R V
436 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Blemiffies and bodily hurts for the moft part happen when the male-
fics are oriental; but difeafes when occidental. And, as their caufe is
different, fo alfo is their effedt; for hurt or blemifh fuffers pain only
once, and is not prolonged; but a difeafe frequently comes by fits, or
continually affefts the patient, inducing a long and lingering diftolu-
tion, or confumptive habit. Thefe are general confiderations; but the
more particular doeirine of blemilhes and difeafes hath another fpecu-
lation of figures, by which, for the moft part, fimilar accidents follow.-
For blindnefs of one eye is indicated, when the Moon is pofited in either
of the aforementioned angles by herfelf, or at the precife time of be­
coming new or full; or when fhe is configurated in a quartile afpedl,
and applies to any of the nebulous converfions in the zodiac. The fame
misfortune happens when Saturn or Mars, being oriental, afqend to the
Moon, pofited in an angle; but, whenever they are thus configurated to
both the luminaries, either in the fame fign or in the oppofite, and
orientally pofited in refpedlof the Sun, but occidental in relpedt of the
Moon, they caufe blindnefs in both the eyes. Mars ufually denotes
blindnefs by the effedts of a blow or thruft, and by lightning, burning,
&c. but, if configurated with Venus, it generally proceeds from an ac­
cident in play or exercife, or from the fudden attack of aflaffins or def-
peradoes.
Saturn produces blindnefs by cataradls and colds, or by pin and web,
and by fuch like accidents ; but, if Venus be pofited in any of the above-
mentioned angles, particularly in the weft, configurated or joined with
' Saturn, and Mars at the fame time elevated, or in oppoiition, the males
then born will be incapable of propagating their fpecies, and the females
either wholly barren, or fubjeft to abortion, or to the bringing forth of
ftill-born children, or to fuch as adhere to the womb, and are obliged to
be feparated by manual operation, or brought away in pieces. This moft
commonly happens in the figns Cancer, Virgo, and Capricorn. But if
the Moon be at the fame time in the afeendant, configurated with Mer­
cury or Saturn, and applying to Mars, what are then born will partici­
pate in the nature of both fexes, and perhaps be void of a natural paf-
iage. It is likewife found, that, if the Sun be configurated with Mer­
cury, and both the luminaries difpofed after a mafeuline manner, the
Moon decreafing, and the malefic ftars afeending in the following de­
grees, the males will be deprived of the members proper for generation,
or be irreparably blemiihed or inefficient in them, particularly in the
figns Aries, Leo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Aquaries; and the females will
be naturally barren all their lives.
3 Impediments
Digitized by Google O
riginal from
M P l / i f V D Q l f Dl I P I I r I I P D A P V
impediments or blemilhes in the fpeech are found to arife from the
configurations of Saturn and Mercury with the Sun, in the aforefaid
angles; particularly when Mercury is pofited in the weft, and beholds
the Moon either by an oppofition or quartile afpedt. And, if thcfe con­
figurations happen to be made in mute figns, as in Cancer, Scorpio, or
Pifces, the impediment will prove confiderably greater. Again, if the
malefic liars are pofited in angles, and the luminaries afcend to them
either by conjunction or oppofition ; or if the malefics afcend to the
luminaries, and the Moon be in her node in hurtful figns, as Aries,
Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, or Capricorn, the defedts of the body will be
by lamenefs, gibbofity, diftortion, or luxation. If the malefic ftars are
in conjundion with the luminaries, thefe affedtions will take plaee from
the birth j but, if they are fituated in the mid-heaven, elevated above the
luminaries, or in oppofition to them, they will aril'e from the concur­
rence of various accidents, fuch as falls, blows, wounds, and the like,
during their progrefs through life.
Blemilhes happen for the moft part when the Moon is in tropical or
equinoctial figns. In the vernal figns they are .chiefly occafioned by
morphew; in the fummer, by tetters j in the autumn, by the fcurvy ;
and, in the winter, by biles and other morbid eruptions. But difeafes
moftly happen when the malefic ftars are configurated in the aforefaid
angles, but contrarily as to the luminaries, viz. occidental to the Sun,
and oriental to the Moon. In thefe pofitions Saturn induces to unufual
coldnefs in the belly and reins, and fubjedts the native to phlegmatic
humours, bloody fluxes, jaundice, and the whole train of hyfterical
affedtions. Mars occafions melancholy, difeafes of the lungs, fiftulas,
hot ulcers, and putrefafclions. If Mercury co-operates with either of
thefe ungracious planets, it is for the increafe of evil, adding frefti vio­
lence to the diforder, and perhaps fooner inducing a fatal determination.
But the properties of fome bodily difeafes arife from the variety of
figns which poifefs the foregoing configurations upon the two angles.—
For inftance. Cancer, Capricorn, and Pifces, caufe difeafes from putre-
fadtion, tetters, fcurvy, or king’s evil j but Sagittarius and Gemini by
falls, epilepfies, falling ficknefs, and the like. If the planets are in the
latter degrees of thefe figns, they produce bodily difeafes and blemilhes in
the extremities, by reafon of luxations or injuries, from whence arife
elephantiafis, gouts, cramps, and rheumatic complaints. And here it
m ud be carefully noted, that, if none of the benevolent planets are con­
figurated with the malefics which poifefs the caufe of thefe various difor-
dcrs.
O
riginal from
mpw di im ir i ibr
Digitized by Go^ gle
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
/
.e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
;
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
id
u
1
1
li
u
^
l
.
u
i
y
/c
M
-
c
t
:b
i_
u
b
e
-w
-p
u
-y
u
u
y
ig
438 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
ders, nor to either of the luminaries in angular pofitions, then thefe
bodily difeafes will be wholly incurable, and the blemiflies never to be
removed j but, if the benefics poflefs a confiderable (hare in the configu­
rations which induce the caufe, or overcome the malefic rays by an equal
or fuperior power, then the difeafes will be much more moderate, and
the blemifties not fo obvious, if more than barely difcernible. It muft
here, as in all other cafes of the like kind, be obferved, that the Wronger
any ruling planet is, whether benefic or malefic, the more eminent and
powerful its effecls will be ; and alfo that a planet is ftronger when ori­
ental than when occidental j wherefore a malefic planet orientally pofited
gives blemifties; but an occidental, difeafes. It is likewile to be re­
marked, that, if the pofition of the planet inducing the caufe be very
ftrong, the defedt will be from the birth; but, if weak, it will aril'e
from fome accident after birth.
O f the natural B E N T and Q U A L IT Y of the M IN D .
Such is the do&rine of bodily accidents, as deducible from the face of
a genethliacal figure; but the qualities of the mind, as rational and
mental, are judged of from the conftitution of Mercury with regard to
different figns and planets. That which appertains to the fenfe alone,
or that renders it irrational, is confidered from the more corporeal ftate
of the luminaries; that is, of the Moon and ftars configurated by fepa-
ration or application. But, fince the animal inclination is various, this
fpeculation is contemplated from many and divers obfervations, accord­
ing to the diverfity of figns which contain Mercury and the Moon, or
the ruling ftars which have dominion in them, and that confer their in­
fluences to the temper and quality of the mind ; together with the con­
figurations of thofe ftars which have refped to the Sun and the angles
confidered as to the proper and diftinft nature with which each of
them ad upon the mental motions of each individual. It is there­
fore generally found that tropical figns render the native’s mind highly
ingenious, full of invention, eager in the purfuit of moral and political
knowledge, and of great fortitude and perfeverance. Double-bodied
figns agitate the mind with a variety of whimfical and very ufelefs pur-
fuits, lead the tongue to loquacious habits, and induce to negligence and
folly. Fixed figns fortify the mind with prudence and virtue, and give
a bias to ceconomy, chaftity, and temperance. Again, oriental confi­
gurations produce mental qualities of a ftrong and ingenious nature, free,
open, and undiffembled, quick of apprehenfion, conftant, judicious,
benevolent, and chafte; but the occidental ones ad upon the mind
Original from
KIEMJ v n QY Dl IP I i r I I P B A D V
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y , < 3?
in a very oppofite manner, inclining the native to proiligacy and intern*
perance, and impairing the intelleft by a naturally vicious difpofition.
It is likewifea juft obfervation, that if the ftars which have dominiop
are pofited in good places of the figure, and well configurated, they render
the mental endowments exquifitely perfeft, and induce to a general good
fortune. This is moil remarkably obvious in thofe genitures which
have Mercury well configurated, and joined with the feparation or ap­
plication of the Moon. But, if Mercury and the Moon are not thus
difpofed, or are afflifted by the evil rays of the malefics, they will even
then imprint the quality of their natures upon the foul, though not fo
flrongly, but in a lefs obvious and more obfcure degree j not tending
fo much to good fortune and advancement in the common concerns o f
life. Hence the property of the ruling planet, whether good or evij,
inAils its own nature into the animal lpirit, with a power and energy
equal to its predominancy in the heavens at the hour of birth j and this
energy is either ftrengthened or diminifhed, according to the force and
aftion of fubordinate configurations ; for thofe who, by reafon of ftrong
malefic rays, are prone to violence and injuflice, have not their vicious in­
clinations hindered, unlcfs thefe evil rays are oppofed by fomc contrary
effeft •, but, if a contrary afpeft oppofes this familiarity of the malefics,
the evil inclination is then proportionally corrected, and the mind is
more eafily brought to a proper fenfe of its intemperate purfuits. By
the fame rule, thofe who are good and juft, becaufe born under a fami­
liarity of benefit ftars, willingly and chearfully purfue a life of recti­
tude and virtue j and, being naturally fortunate, as well as prudent, their
undertakings generally prove advantageous and profitable; but, if a con­
trary afpeft oppofes this happy familiarity of the benefics, either a lefs
exemplary conduft, or a more unprofitable purfuitof worldly concerns,
is fure to mark the ebarafter of the native through all the different,
flages of his life.
Thus far we have confidered the influences of Mercury and the Moon
upon the mind of man, in a general way, unconnefted with the ope­
ration or effeft of any particular planet, which may happen to affutne the
dominion, and thereby imprint its own peculiar influences upon the
mental faculties, in proportion to its fuperiority over the other planets.
Let us now turn our obfervation to that prodigious variety of affeftions
of the animal or intelleftual part of man, which each diftinft planet is
found to produce, when they alone govern the mind at the time of
birth.
No. 22. 5 O Saturn
Digitized by Google Original from
V f l D t ' D I I R I i r I I D Q A Q V
440 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
Saturn having alone the dominion of the mental faculties) and ruling
Mercury and the Moon, if he be eligibly fituated in refpeft of the world
and the angles, will induce the native to an imperious and covetous
difpofition, remarkably fordid, felf-fufficient, and envious j but, if he
be but indifferently pofited in refpeft to the angles and the world, he
difpofes the mind to treacherous inclinations, fraught with fuperflition,
cowardice, and meannefs. If he is found in a concordant familiarity
with Jupiter, and both in good pofitions of the figure, they qualify the
mind with better inclinations, and difpofe it to a£ts of benevolence,
prudence, and magnanimity ; but, if they are configurated in evil places
of the figure, they work a contrary effeft, difpofing the mind to turbu­
lence and cruelty, and to various atts of hypocrify and fraud. If Saturn
be in good afpedt with Mars, and well pofited in the figure, he difpofes
the inclination to great and arduous undertakings, remarkable for in­
trepidity and courage in war, and for a watchful, laborious, inflexible,
and colle&ed, mind, though much difpofed to adts of violence, tyranny,
and oppreffion; but, if they are found in bad pofitions of the figure, they
produce a mind given up to every fpecies of fraud and impofition, and
wholly abandoned to impiety and wickednefs. If united to Venus, in
elevated pofitions, he renders the mind libidinous and luftful, given to
diffipation and intemperance, but fubjedt to fufpicion and jealoufy in
refpeft of women ; but, if unhappily difpofed in thehoufes of the figure,
he will induce the mind to the raoft filthy uncleannefs, and to other adts
of the bafeftand moft reproachful kind. If Saturn hath familiarity with
Mercury, in a good pofition, he additts the mind to the fober fludy of
the polite arts, or bends the inclination to the purfuit of fome particular
improvement or new difeovery in the fciences j and in general renders
the difpofition fedate, careful, and induftrious ; but, if they be confi­
gurated with each other in evil places, they incline to treachery and
unfaithfulnefs, difpofe the mind to the recollection of paft injuries, and
.urge to malice and premeditated revenge. This variety of mental af­
fections chiefly proceeds from the influences of Saturn, but they are
moderated, and differently difpofed, according to the nature and force
of thofe rays, which, as we have feen, are refpectively contributed by
tfie prefence of other planets.
Jupiter having alone the dominion of the mind, and being well pofited
in the figure, influences the animal foul to the moil noble and exalted
ideas of honour and rectitude, difpofing to magnanimity in the caufe of
morality and virtue, and leading the operative faculties to every praife-
worthy actof generofity and benevolence, but, if Jupitex is pofited in any
dilcordant part of the figure, his influences have lefs effect* for, though
l they
tz
«
,b
yGoogle Original from
V n D ^ Dl ID I i r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 441
they imprint the fame natural impulfe upon the mind, leading to all good
and moral purfuits,. yet it is in a much more faint and obfcure manner,
being accompanied with a great degree of indolence and ina&ivity. If
Jupiter hath configuration with Mars in a good pofition, he produces a
fiery and impetuous difpofition, bold, daring, and courageous, and given
to the purfuit of great and arduous enterprifes; but, if evilly difpofed
with Mars in the figure, he induces to an unmerciful, feditious, and
unftable, mind, prone to turbulence and fadtion, and given up to all the
irregularities of an evil and diflipated inclination. If Jupiter be in
familiarity with Venus, and well polited, he difpofes the mind to fenti-
ments of liberality and juftice, gives ingenuity and perfeverance, and
Strengthens the intelledt by a capacious memory; but, if placed in
difcordant parts of the figure, he difpofes to the purfuit of fenfual and
lafcivious pleafures, and gives a turn for loofe and diforderly converfation.
If Jupiter hath configuration with Mercury, and in good places, he
difpofes the mind to the purfuit of learning and wifdom, and gives
thofe natural endowments of a refined intelledt, which produce the moft
accomplifhed politicians, orators, poets, painters, or mathematicians;
and is indeed one of the moft happy configurations that attuate and
govern the mental faculties; but, if he hath an evil configuration with
Mercury, he induces the mind to vanity and enthufiafm, leads to felf-
conceitednefs and fuperftition, and gives levity, loquacioufnefs, and Su­
perficial ideas.
Mars having alone the dominion of the mind, and well pofited in the
figure, produces a bold, confident, and intrepid. Spirit, given to violence
and war, impatient, tyrannical, and arbitrary, intermixed with an ex­
ternal fhew of rectitude and generofity; but, if unhappily difpofed, he
influences the mind to barbarity and malevolence, given to implacable
hatred and inhuman revenge, and difpofes the foul to the perpetration
of the moft dark and malicious afts of cruelty and fraud. Having fa­
miliarity with Venus, and happily fituated in the figure, he gives a
mind fraught with liberality and chearfulnefs, difpofed to fincerity and
friendftiip, to circumfpedtion and Sobriety, and fond of mirth and plea­
sure; but, if in an evil pofition of the figure, he inclines to drunkennefs
and debauchery, and furnithes a mind given to treachery, deceit, and
every fpecies of immorality. If Mars hath familiarity with Mercury in
a profperous ftation, he gives a mind happily formed for the conducing
of military or naval affairs, furnifhes the foul with a thirft for great and
noble adtions, and fortifies it with temper, deliberation, coolnefs, con­
fidence, and magnanimity; endowing the mind, at the Same time, with
the fineft feelings of honour, generofity, humanity, and benevolence; but.
Digitized by Got sle Original from
M P U / V S l R t ' Dl I P I I r I I P D A B V
Digitize
44* A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
if evilly difpofed, he furnilhes a carelefs and inconftant mind, prone to
wicked and mifehievous pradlices, and fond of difeord, ftrife, and
fedition.
Venus alone having government of the intelledlual faculties, and well
placed in the figure, endows the mind with complacency and foftnefs,
renders the fentiments delicate, modeft, and well difpofed, and the man­
ners fweet and engaging ; but, contrarily fituated, ihe induces to waa-
tonnefs, floth, and effeminacy, fraught with cowardice and profligacy.
Having familiarity with Mercury, and in a profperous pofition, the leads
the mind to a relifh for philofophy and fcience, gives eloquence and in­
genuity, and forms an intellect for divinity, law, or phyficj but, evilly
difpofed, Ihe gives a treacherous and unftable mind, bent on perverfenefs
and contention, and given to Hander, hypocrify, and intemperance.
If Mercury alone hath the dominion and government of the mind, he
inclines it to the purfuit of prudence and wifdom, gives a turn for in­
genious fpeculations, and a taftc for poetry and fcience; the retentive
faculty is generally ftrong, and the wit lively and penetrating; but, if
he be pofited in an unpropitious part of the figure, he difpofes the mind
to forgetfulnefs and indolence^ and influences to the purfuit of mean and
crafty objedts ; rendering the native mutable and unfteady in mind and
judgment, and in mofl cafes ralh, inconfiderate, and fubjedi to error.
The luminaries likewife have their peculiar operations upon the mind
and mental faculties of the native; for the Moon, being in her greateft
north and fouth latitude, renders the motions of the animal foul more
various, crafty, and mutable; but, when fhe is in her nodes, fhe makes
them more quick, adtive, and fprightly. In oriental politions, and in-
creafing in light and motion, fhe gives a more open, free, and ingenuous,
m ind; but, if decreafing, fhe renders the imagination dull, languid, and
heavy, and the temper changeable and uncertain; The Sun contributes
his effedts according to the familiarity or configuration he makes with
the planet which is ruler of the mental faculties. If the afpedt be good,
and in a fortunate part of the figure, he conduces to form the mind more
honourable, juft, and perffcdt; but, in the contrary politions, he influences
to a more abjeft, cruel, and unworthy, difpofition.
From the foregoing premifes, the ingenious ftudent will readily infer,
that the qualities and affe&ions of the mind are confidered, firft, from
the places and pofitions of Mercury and the Moon; fecondly, from the
lords of the different places of the figure; thirdly, from the nature and
conftitution
d
b
vGouolc Original from
M P A / V f \ D ^ Dl I P I I r I I P R A P V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 443
conftitution of the planets with thofe places, or their refjpeCt to the Sun
with their lords j fourthly, from their oppofition in refpett to the angles ;
fifthly, from the nature and property of each flar in conjunction with,
or beholding, thofe places; and, fixthly, from the power or debility of
every fuch fignificator refpeCtively confidered. Nor ought the fixed flats
of the firfl and fecond magnitude, in or near the ecliptic, or that are
nearly vertical to the place of birth, and in conjunction with the figni-
ficators, to be in any wife negleded.
We may likewife add, that Mercury in conjunction with the Sun
produces a mind fitly formed for the prudent and fuccefsful manage­
ment of any kind of bufinefs; but, if they irradiate each other at a dif-
tance of twenty or twenty-four degrees, the mind will be altogether
unfit for bufinefs, or any aCtive line of life, but moltly difpofed to ftudy,
or to a fedentary calling. In equinoctial or tropical figns. Mercury has
the fame incitement to activity and public bufinefs as when bodily
configurated to the Sun ; but in watery figns he aCls contrarily, in other
figns more varioufly, but always beft where bed dignified.
If Mercury be afflicted with malevolent planets, the wit is always
dull, flow, and flupid; if fwift in motion, he renders the mind quick,
but inconflant; if retrogade, dubious and unfixed; if under the Sun­
beams, the mind will lean to the purfuit of ufelefs and unprofitable fpe-
culations ; if pofited in oriental houfes, the difpofition will be open and
ingenuous; but, if in occidental, it will be wily, fubtle, and diflembling.
If Mercury be better dignified and flronger than the Moon, the reafon-
able faculties will be flronger than the fenfitive, particularly if Mercury
be in figns of long afcenfion, and the Moon in thofe of fhort afcenfion ;
but, if Mercury be in commanding figns, and the Moon in obeying, the
native’s intellect will be naturally weak and impaired ; and, if the Moon
chance to be at the fame time irradiated by the afflicting rays of either
of the infortunes, the native will be irrational and a perfeft ideot.
Of the N A T U R A L D I S E A S E S incident to the M I N D.
The affeClions and properties of the mind are of a feparate and diflinCl
confideration from the difeafesof the mind, fuch as madnefs, inf
the falling ficknefs, and the'like; but are equally deducible from the
face of the native’s geniture. For this purpofe we mull again refer to
the configurations of Mercury and the Moon, and obferve how they are
pofited in refpeCt of each other, and in reference to the angular houfes.
No. 22. 5 P and
Digitized by Goi sle Original from
KiPAf v n e t ' di i n i ir i i r d a d v
444 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
andalfo to the malefics. For, if Mercury and the Moon are in an in-
conjunct pofition in refpedt of themfelves, or the oriental horizon, and
are irradiated by contrary and malefic configurations, whereby fuperiors
rule oroppofe, they thus conftitute various difeafes in the qualities of the
mind; the particular fpecies of which is known from the qualities of the
liars which poflefs the places. Hence it is obvious that the more mo­
derate difeafes of the mind have their radical caufe from an excefs or
defeat of thofe operations which induce the mental qualities; for, the
predominancy of fuch qualities naturally promotes an excefs of evil, and
conftitutes a difeafe, in proportion as the ambient matter is unmixed, and
above or below a proper mediocrity; but the more obvious and fatal
difeafes of the mind arife from a difproportion or defeft of matter infinite
ly greater, and wholly befide nature.
Thofe who are born when Mercury and the Moon are inconjundl,
either in refpe£t of themfelves or the oriental horizon, Saturn and Mars
being angular, and beholding the configuration. Mars by night, and
Saturn by day, will be naturally fubjeft to the falling ficknefs all their
lives; but, if Saturn happens to take this pofition by night, and Mars by
day, the native will be fubje£l to phrcnzy and madnefs, more efpecially
if the afpe£t fall in Cancer, Virgo, or Pifces. Again, if the Moon,
■being in her phafis, is overcome by malefic rays, namely, by the con­
currence of Saturn when approaching to a new, or by Mars at her full,
either in the figns Sagittarius or Pifces, whoever is born under fuch con­
figurations will be fubjeft to lunacy. Therefore the malefic flars, over­
coming or predominating in any configuration, induce a variety of
mental difeafes, which are either remarkably violent, or obfeure and la­
tent, according to the nature and energy of each refpe&ivc ruling planet.
If the benevolent planets Jupiter and Venus have familiarity, in ori­
ental pofitions, and angular, with the malefics occidentally poflted,
thefe mental difeafes, though ftrong and violent, will be curable; if
Jupiter prefides, they will be moved by medical help; but, if Venus,
by the natural llrength of the mental faculties. But, if thefe pofitions
happen to be reverl'ed, the malefic ftars angular, and in oriental ftations,
and the benefics fetting, the difeafes will become more manifell, and
be wholly incurable. Hence we derive the caufe of the ever-varying
mutation of the animal fpirits, which are always more or lefs affe&ed
in proportion as Mercury and the Moon are agitated by the good or evil
influences of other concurring and adjuvant caufes.
Such
Digitized by
Google Original from
MCl fi / Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 44$
Sueh are the morbid affe&ions in the adtive part of the rational foul,
produced by the planetary configurations, but the great change which
arifes in the patient, that is, in the irrational part of the foul*, is in­
duced chiefly from excefs or defied!, according to the particular confor­
mation of male or female, in which they either exceed, or are deficient, in
the parts proper to their fex. For it is found, that, if the Sun be configu­
rated with the Moon in the place of Mercury, and Mars and Venus have
familiarity with them, the luminaries being in mafcnline figns, the
men will exceed in that which is natural, having thofe parts in excefs
that are proper to man; and the woman will have a conformation of
parts preternatural and mixed. But, if Mars and Venus fhould be one
or both conftituted with them after a mafculine manner, the men will
be fubjeot to mixtures of fex, and the women to violent luft and intem­
perate vw.ntonnefs. If Venus alone be difpofed after a mafculine manner,
this fenfation will be lefs ftrong, and the parties will condutl themfelves
with more decency and modefty; but, if Mars and Venus both are fo
conftituted, they will be moved to carnal embraces by the molt violent
and irrefiitible fenfations.
If the luminaries alone are configurated in feminine figns, the women
then born will be of immoderate conformation, and will have ftrong and
continual defires after men; but the men then born will be changed to
that conformation which is inferior to nature, and will inherit an effe­
minate and tender conftitution of body and parts. And, if Venus be
difpofed with them in a feminine manner, the women will be more la-
feivious and prone to veneryj and, in whatever line of life they chance
to glide, this paflion will always be prodominant, and moft probably
fubjedl them to difgrace and infamy. The men under this conftitutioa
are ftill more effeminate and impotent; but, if Mars be thus conftituted
inflead of Venus, they become robuft and vigorous, and luft after women.
The oriental or diurnal configuration of Mars and Venus contribute
to a more mafculine and robuft conformation, but the occidental and
vefpertine to their being more effeminate and debilitated. If Saturn
happens to be configurated with them, he contributes to mQre luft and
wantonnefs, but in an unnatural way; if Jupiter irradiates the afpe<ft,
* To prevent the reader from being innocently led aftray, and the defigning critic from ex­
plaining away the author’s meaning, it is juft neceffary to remark, that what is faid here of the
mind and foul is not to be underftood of the S u pern atu ral fou l, w h ich n ever dieth, but of the
intelle&ual rational part of the an im al fo u l, which is formed, ruled, and wholly governed,
by thefe fupreme and foie fecond caufes, under God, the liars \ but principally by the Moon
and Mercury*
he
Digitized by Go<. gle Original from
MCUki vnoif Dl IP I Ir I I R D A P V
u
u
\
11d111,
o
u
u
y
ie
-u
iy
iL
iz
tiu
/
i
i
l
l
|
j
.
/
/
w
w
w
.
i
idu
nu
ub
t.u
i
y/dt.Lt;bb_ubt:-w
-|Ju-yuuy
le
446 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
be conduces to more modefty and decency ; but Mercury influences to a
greater mobility of paflion, to a frequent change of objects, and to a con­
tinual love of variety, whether the native be male or female.
Of W E A L T H and R I C H E S .
W e have hitherto confidercd only fuch parts of the native’s geniture
as relate to the accidents of his body and mind, and the general qualities
incident to them, as well before as after the birth. From thefe the
fpeculations naturally follow which regard the contingencies of them ;
whereof thofe appertaining to temporal poflefiions feem peculiarly to
agree with what concerns the body, and thofe which relate to honour
and dignity feem more particularly to flow from the qualities of the
mind.
To afeertain, therefore, the kind and quality of worldly pofleflions,
in any rational degree, we are to confider of the pofition of the Part of
Fortune, with the nature and ftrength of the planet which rules it, to­
gether with his configurations and pofitions in refpedt to other ftars.
For, whatever planet aflumes the lordlhip of the Part of Fortune, if ftrong
and well dignified, he will afl'uredly contribute wealth and riches, but
more abundanty and lafting when the luminaries give teftimony to him
by irradiating the place of his pofition. It is to be obferved that Saturn
gives an increafeof wealth by the improvement and cultivation of lands,
or by buildings or navigation. Jupiter contributes riches by the con­
fidence and love of friends, which produce legacies and patrimony ; alfo
by preferment in the church. Mars conduces to wealth by warfare, in­
trepidity, and good generalfhip. Venus, by friendlhip, gifts, and mar­
riage. Mercury by fcience, oratory, or perfeverance in bulinefs.
Saturn having familiarity with the part of Fortune, and configurated
at the fame time with Jupiter, promifes lands and hereditaments; par­
ticularly if pofited in a fuperior angle, and Jupiter occidental in a double­
bodied fign, or in application with the Moon; for then, being adopted,
the native will become the heir of others. And, if thofe ftars, which are
of the fame nature with the fignificator of the Part of Fortune, give tefti—
mony of dominion, the pofleflion will remain with the native; but, if thofe
of a contrary quality are elevated above the lord which has dominion, the
pofleflion will be of no duration, and future riches precarious. The ge­
neral time of thefe events is taken from the inclination of the ftars which
produce the caufe in refpedt to the angles and fucceedents. It may alfo
3 be
Digitized by Google Original from
m c m j D i i m 1r 1 i d d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 447
be further obferved, that if thefe lords of the Part of Fortune, commonly
called fignificators of riches, are in an angular pofition, the acquifition of
wealth will happen in youth ; and, if on the cufps of thofe angular po­
fitions, ftill earlier. If they are pofited in fuccedents, the riches will
prefent themfelves at a middle age; if in cadent houfes, either late or
in extreme old age. The fame circumftances are likewife produced by
oriental and occidental pofitions, in refpedt of the Sun and the World.
O f D I G N I T I E S and H O N O U R S .
Things which relate to honour and dignity are deduced from the
difpofition of the luminaries, and the familiarity of the ftars by which
they are furrounded. Wherefore, if both the luminaries at the time of
birth are found in mafculine figns, angular, and attended by the five
planets, the Sun by oriental ftars, and the Moon by occidental, thofe
perfons will afpire to extraordinary power and dignity, and exercife au­
thority and dominion over others, from whence great tribute and ho­
nour will flow. And if thefe forrounding planets are angular, or con­
figurated to a cardinal houfe above the earth, they will be great and
powerful in a fuperior degree; but flill more fo, if the attending planets
make a dexter configuration to the angles above the earth, with the Sun
in a mafculine fign, and the Moon in a feminine ; for then the native
will arrive to a power like that of princes, having abfolute dominion and
government, difpofing, in a comparative degree, of the iflues of life and
death.
But if the luminaries happen to be thus pofited, and none of the fur­
rounding planets are in angular ftations, nor give teftimony to the angles, the
native will be great and honourable as a magiftrate or general, but not
as having dominion or princely dignity. So if the furrounding planets
are fome or mod of them in angular ftations, or configurated to the
angles, yet, if the luminaries are not in angular pofitions alfo, the native
will not arrive to fuch illuftrious preferment, and will but moderately
excel in dignity and honour. But, if neither of the attending planets is
configurated to the angles, the native will be obfcure, and pals his whole
life without promotion or dignity ; and if neither of the luminaries 2re at
the fame time found in a mafculine fign, nor angular, nor attended by
the benefic rays of good planets, the native’s life will be abjeS and mife-
rable, and his fortune hard.
No. 22. 5 CL Thus
Original from
M P/i/ Di i m 1r 1 i d d a
Digitized by Go*, gle
44S A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Thus the general confederation and mutability of dignity and honour
is fought out and determined. But many things between the two ex­
tremes of dignified ftation and abjedt fervility muft be taken into the
account, before any reafonable judgment can be formed from the native’s
geniture ; for we muft recolleti, that every perfon born under the fame
propitious configuration cannot alike arrive to the felf-fame height of
dignity and honour, becaufe the difference of birth and ftation will at
once deftroy the poflibility of it ; not to fay any thing of crofs afpedls,
and other baneful familiarities, which may either cut the thread of.
life, or tend to leffen the grateful influences of benefic configurations.
It therefore follows, that we are not only to judge of perfonal honour
and dignity, under certain reftriftions, from the nature, quality, and
place of birth, but likewifefrom a due confideration of all occurring and
fubordinate rays, which may in any fhape be liable to affedt the fignifi-
cators of dignity. We muft not however forget, that, when thefe fignifi-
cators are fo dignified in a nativity, that no evil rays, either mundane
or zodiacal, or any fubordinateparallels, confpire to afflict or diminilh their
good influences, and the prorogator of life is ftrong and durable, be the
quality of birth what it may, and the obfcurity of the parents ever fo
remarkable, yet the infant thus brought into the world ftiall be exalted to
a degree of eminence and grandeur infinitely beyond whatever could
have been expedted. And it is juft the fame in refpedf of riches, plea-
fure, wedlock, children, friends, enemies, travelling, and all other
events common to human life; for, if the place of the nativity proper to
either of them be thus ftrongly and happily configurated, the effedts will
be produced in an eminent and glorious manner ; but, when there hap­
pen crofs and latent familiarities to oppofe and afflidt the refpedtive fig-
nificators, and particularly if there are teftimonies of fflort life, death
will of courfe enfue, and all inferior or dependent incidents naturally
ceafe, and are prevented.
O f natural I N C L I N A T I O N S or P R O F E S S I O N S .
Since the confequences of the fall produced that unalterable decree of
heaven, that manJhould eat bread by the his brow j and fince the
increafe of mankind upon the face of the earth rendered a variety of
profeflions neceffary ; fo it is natural to believe, what obfervation has
long confirmed, that the bent of every man’s mind is more or lefs dif-
pofcd towards the purfuit of fome particular avocation, by which the calls
of nature may be fupplied, and the decrees of heaven fully accompliftied.
And hence it is that the liars, as fecond caufes under God, derive the
• power
Digitized by Go ole Original from
MP / i l V f l D ^ Dl IP I Ir I I R P A D V
u
u
M
id
iM
,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
iy
i
L
i
z
.e
u
/
i
n
i|j;//v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
i
d
i
n
i
u
u
s
i
.
u
i
y
/d
n
_
e
^
b
_
u
i
t
;
-
r
t
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
t
;
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 449
power of influencing mankind to a natural choice of thefe profeflions j
our propenfities to which are fo deeply rooted, and fo ftrongly imprinted
on the mental faculties, that no human bias is able to counteraft them,
nor the moft elevated ftation in life, not even that of majefty itfelf, fuf-
ficient to repel the inclination from an attachment to fome branch of me-
chanifm or fcience, by which an advantage might in fome meafure be de­
rived, either univerfally or individually.
To enter upon this fpeculation, we mull confider the lord of the
profeflion or planet that alfumes the dominion, which is taken two
ways, either from the Sun, or the fign upon the midheaven ; where­
fore we ought to obferve the ftar that makes an oriental appearance next
to the Sun, or midheaven, but more particularly when approached by
the application of the Moon; and if one and the fame planet pafl'es
both, or makes the neareft approaches to the Sun or mid-heaven, we
take that planet for lord of the profeflion. ►But if one planet be pofxted
before the Sun, and another in the mid-heaven, having familiarity with
the Moon, both are to be confidered, and that only preferred, as fignifi-
cator, which is apparently the moft ftrong, and beft dignified. In cafe*
where no planet is found approaching the Sun, nor pofited in the mid­
heaven, then that fhall be taken which hath dominion, or is lord of the
mid-heaven.
To endeavour to afeertain the very profeflion or mechanical trade each
native will follow, is an idle and abfurd attempt, and favours of folly
and fanaticifm. For, though it is poflible to deferibe the kind and qua­
lity of the profeflion in refpedt to its general tendency and genus, yet it
is impoflible to afeertain particularly whether a man fhall be a common
carpenter, a wheelwright, or cabinet-maker. What we are able to dif-
cover is made known by the properties of the three planets. Mars, Ve­
nus, and Mercury, confidered in refpcCt of the figns in which they are
pofited. Mercury influences to the love of literature, and the polite
arts ; and, if he be lord of the profeflion, will naturally incline the adtive
qualities of the mind to fuch purfuits as are conformable thereto, and
which come under the various branches of the fciences and philofophy.
He therefore produces excellent orators, ftudents in law, phyfic, or di­
vinity j eminent poets and hiftorians j together with the whole train of
dependent and inferior avocations of this clafs, which are difcoverable
by the prefence or aflifting rays of the other planetary configurations;
for, if Saturn gives tellimony to Mercury, the profeflion will be of an
inferior order; but, if Jupiter, they will be more excellent and ho­
nourable.
2 If
Digitized by ( j O G ^ l C
45© A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
If Venus aflumes the dominion of the profeffion, (he will difpofe the
native to the ftudy of flowers, and of botany in general, and confequently
to the knowledge and preparation of unguents, tin£lures, eflences, fpices,
aromatic waters, wines, cordials, and other productions of herbs and
flowers, fome or other of which the native will probably deal in. If
Saturn gives teftimony to her, (he makes chemifts, apothecaries, dealers
in dyes and colours, or fuch as deal in wearing apparel, or the
materials of which they are compofed. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony,
the native will afpire after fome eminent office, or place of truft under
government; or to fome poll; of honour, or official department in the
ftate ; or will obtain fome honourable profeffion in the navy or army by
a perfeverance in that line.
If Mars is ruler of the profeffion, and irradiated by the Sun, he leads
to all thofe branches of the mechanics which are wrought by the
operation of fire ; whence he produces all the artificers in brafs and iron,
and the workers and refiners of metals. But, being in conjunction with
the Sun, he influences to hulbandry, agriculture, and working in wood
and ftone. If Saturn gives teftimony to him, he carries the inclination
towards a feafaring life, or to a love of gain by travelling, or by traffic
in foreign countries, or by dealing in Haves or cattle. If Jupiter gives
teftimony, the native’s profeffion will be that of the army or navy, or
fome place, office, or employment, dependent thereon.
If Mercury and Venus are fo configurated in the geniture as to be­
come joint rulers of the profeffion, they will produce excellent mufi-
cians, and good compilers of mufical pieces ; alfo, mufical inftrument
makers, compofers of fongs and glees, and admirable fingers ; likewife
comedians, opera dancers, tumblers, and all the tribe of exhibitionifts.
And, if Saturn gives teftimony, he will make jewellers, toymen, and
dealers in ornaments and precious ftones. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony
to them, he will difpofe the mind to the ftudy of politics, or of national
and conftitutional law ; or he will make the profeffion that of a teacher
or fchoolmafter, or the ruler and manager of fome public feminary of
learning.
If Mars and Mercury are joint lords of the profeffion, they lead the
inclination to the choice of painting or drawing; to ftatuary, fculpture,
carving, engraving, and fuch-like ingenious arts. But, becaufe the hap­
py configurations which confpire to the production of talents proper for
thefe purfuits are not often to be found in any geniture, without fome
malevolent
Original from
Mcur v n o v di ipi i r i i r p a r v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 451
malevolent or affliCting rays, whereby the native’s genius is impaired, it
feldom happens that we find very high perfection, or fuper-extraordinary
merit, among the numerous profelTors and followers of the polite arts *
whence comes the foundation of the common faying, fo ftri&ly confor­
mable to truth and reafon, that painters, poets, and muficians, mud be
fo bom ; that is, mud inherit from nature a ftrong bias for either of
thefe profeflions, to make any extraordinary progrefs in them. And it
is remarkable, that, if Saturn gives teftimony to this joint rule of Mars
and Mercury, all the above ingenuity and tafte will be dcftroyed, and
the native become wholly untradable and indolent, and given up to
theft, fwindling, fharping, and other fpecies and fraud and violence, for
the means of a fubfiftence.
If Mars and Venus jointly take dominion of the profeflion, they pro­
duce workers and dealers in various kinds of metals; likewife hufband-
men, apothecaries, and phyficians, and all profeflions in the nature of
plants and herbs. If Saturn gives teftimony to them, they will make
ignorant pretenders to mufic and divinity ; and, in all other profeflions
under this configuration, the native will betray a want of ingenuity and
capacity. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony, the contrary effects will hap­
pen ; and, in whatever purfuit the native engages, proper to this mixture
of the ruling planets, he will have the fatisfadion of deriving both ho­
nour and profit from his labours.
It muff: alfo be obferved, that the quality of the flgns in which thefe
congrefles arc made, and wherein the lords of the profeflion are pofited,
confers to the variety and advantage of fuch profeflion. Thofeof human
fhape conduce amazingly to the perfection of all thofe fciences and avo­
cations which are for the improvement and information of the mind.
Four-footed flgns contribute to the greater perfection of metallic arts,
navigation, and architecture. Tropical and equinoCiial flgns forward
the purfuits of hufbandry, agriculture, the mathematics, chemiftry,
and theology. Earthy and watery flgns to the perfection of phyfic and
furgery, to the art of conftruCting fhips, and to the profeflion of a
merchant.
Again, if the Moon poflefles the place of the profeflion, having confi­
guration with Mercury, at her conjunction with the Sun, either in
Taurus, Capricorn, or Cancer, flie will conduce to greater fagacity and
penetration in whatever profeflion the native happens to follow. If this
configuration happens in Sagittarius or Pifces, it conduces to a melan­
choly and timid purfuit of bufinefs, and burthens the mind with enthu-
No. 23. 5 R fiaftic
Digitized by Goi sle Original from
m p a / v n o k ' D i i m i r i i r r a r v
4 $ 2 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
fiaftic and fuperftitious affe&ions. If it happens in Virgo or Scorpio, it
contributes profound wifdoin and knowledge to the profeffion of phy-
ficians, lawyers, or divines; and to the followers of l'cience or philofo-
phy. If in Libra, Aries, or Leo, it makes enthufiaftic preachers, and
fills the mind with idle and immoderate ideas of gain by each refpedtive
bufinefs or avocation.
Thus the kinds and qualities of profeffions are to be fought out in a
general way, and deferibed accordingly; but the importance and extent
of them muft be confidered from the ftrength and dignity of the ruling
ftars. For, being oriental or angular, they make the profeffion eminent
and profitable; but, if occidental, or declining from angles, it will be
unimportant, mean, and unprofitable. If the benefics are fuperior, the
profeffion will be eminent, honourable, and conducive to great riches ;
but, if the malefics are fuperior, it will be mean, inglorious, and wholly
unprofitable. Saturn is found to deftroy the benefits of an attive pro­
feffion by tardinefs, indifference, and inactivity: but Mars through
boldnefs, loftinefs, and prefumption ; wherefore both aft in oppofition
to the fuccefs and advantage of the native’s profeffion. But the general
caufes of the failure or profperity of bufinefs muft be judged of from
the difpofition and quality of the ftars which produce this effect; and
this in reference to the oriental and occidental angles. The eaft angle
denotes the beginning of life; the weft angle the end ; and the mid­
heaven the middle part, from about thirty to forty years: and, as the
fignificators are difpofed in the radical figure, fo will the effects thereof
be at the let time of life conformable thereto.
It muft be ever remembered that the doCtrine of profeffions here laid
down, and the effefts arifing from them, relates only to fuch as are fol­
lowed in confequence of the natural impulfeof the mind; in which cafes
alone we are to feck for adequate fuccefs and perfeflion in the profecu-
tion of them. Among the obfervations we make of the common Occur­
rences of life, we too often find youth configned to fuch employments,
by the wiil or caprice of their parents, as they are neither defigned for
by nature nor have the leaft inclination to follow. And hence it
is that fo many bunglers rife up in all trades and profeffions, who, finding
their bufinefs a continual load of oppreffion and perplexity, either aban­
don it altogether, or elfe become indolent, fottilh, and inactive, to the
utter ruin to their families and to the general annoyance of the more
induftrious part of mankind. From this confideration, parents and
guardians Ihould be careful to educate and bring up the riling generation,
as far as prudence will admit, according to the natural bent and genius
i of
Original from
m p u / v n o ^ d i i m i r i i q d a d v
Digitized by Got. ale
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 453
of their own inclinations, which is the only diredl road to excellence
and perfe&ion. This I think is a fadt that needs no further illuftration,
fince the obfervations of mod men will furnilh them with inftances of
perfons being regularly bred to fome profefiions, which even at an ad­
vanced time of life they wholly abandon, in purfuit of fome other calling
more confonant to their nature and abilities, and in which they often
fucceed, to the aftonifliment to their competitors.
Of M A R R I A G E .
To What has been faid follows the confideration of marriage, or the
fit conjundlion and living together of man and woman, according to the
divine ordinance of thefupreme Being. And, as this law was evidently
e(labli(hed from the beginning of things, as well for the propagation of
the fpecies as for the mutual comfort and happinefs of the fexes, it were
fenfelefs to fuppofe human nature void of the impulfe of reciprocal love;
or that the involuntary adtions of the foul, by which it is moved towards the
objedt of its affedtions, have not a radical caufe in the order of nature.
If this be admitted, it cannot furely be deemed a fubjedt of ridicule, to
believe that this, as well as the other important tranfadtions of our lives,
may be fought out by a contemplation of the celeflial bodies.
To inveftigate this point, therefore, in refpedt to men, let the pofi-
tions and conftitutions of the Moon be particularly confidered. For,
when (he is found in the oriental quadrants at the time birth, (he
influences the native to the confummation of marriage at an early period
of his life 5 but, if pofited in the occidental quadrants, he will probably
live Angle till the approach of old age, and then marry a very young
woman. If the Moon be afflidted by the Sun-beams, and in configura­
tion with Saturn, in either of thefe pofitions the native will never marry
at all. If (he be found in a fign of one form, and making application to
one planet only, the native will marry but once; but, if pofited in a bi­
corporal or fign of many forms, and making application to feveral (bars
in the fame fign, he will be feveral times married. And, if the (bars
which receive the Moon’s application, either by a conjunction, fextile, or
trine, are benefic, the wives will be good and virtuous; but, if the ap­
plication be made to malefic planets, and by evil configurations, they
will be altogether of an oppoiite defcription. Therefore, if Saturn re­
ceives the Moon’s application, it indicates a laborious, but fullen, fro-
ward, and ungovernable, wife. If it be made to Jupiter, (he will be free,
open, and generous, truly virtuous, and a good houfewife. If to Mars,.
* (he
Digitized by G O O Q l e
Original from
MHAl v n o k ' Dl IP I Ir I I D D A D V
454 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
(he will be bold, ftubborn, and refradtory. If to Venus, chearful,
complacent, affable, and chafte. If to Mercury, wife, prudent, loving,
and conftant. But, if Mars irradiates the place, £he will be furly, pafi-
iionate, talkative, and unfteady.
For the particulars of marriage in refpedl of women, we are toconfider
the pofitions of the Sun, inftead of the Moon ; for, if he be fituated in
the oriental houfes, at the time of birth, the native will either marry very
young, or elfe at an advanced time of life to a young man j but, if the
Sun be found in the occidental houfes, fhe will marry late, or to a man
far advanced in years. And alfo, if he be fituated in a fign of one form,
fhe will marry but once; but, if in a fign of many forms, or configurated
to many oriental ftars. Hie will have more huihands than one, who will
partake of the fame nature and qualities as the Bars to which the confi­
gurations are made. Thus, Saturn, if configurated to the Sun, will
indicate fober, grave, and laborious, huihands, hut cold and phlegmatic.
Jupiter difpofes them to more opennels of mind, and generoiity. Mars
makes them violent, warm, unruly, pafiionate, and arbitrary. Venus
foreihews them to be indulgent, fond, good-natured, and handfome.
Mercury difpofes them to be careful, prudent, induftrious, and faithful.
But, if Saturn be joined with Mercury, they will be churlilh and re-
ferved j if with Venus, they will be dull, four, and inconftant: if with
Mars, quick, lively, luilful, and fond of variety. Thofe are here to be
confidered the oriental quarters in refpedt of the Sun, which precede the
oriental and occidental fign of the zodiac j and, in refpedt of the Moon,
thofe from her new and full to her other quarters ; and the occidental
houfes are thofe which fall oppofite to the foregoing.
As to events that occur after marriage, that is a different fpeculation,
and requires great attention to the following particulars. Whenever the
geniture of both hufband and wife have the luminaries configurated in
mutual agreement, that is, in trine or fextile to each other, they will
live together in comfort and harmony, and for a long continuance of
time, if the luminaries happen to be in mutual reception. And this du­
ration will flill be more firm and lafting, if the pofition of the hufband’s
Moon agrees with that of the Sun in the wife’s geniture. But, if the
pofitions of the luminaries are placed in figns inconjuntt, and configu­
rated by quartile or oppofition, they will either live together in difeord
and enmity, and be rent by violent jealoufies and contention, or elfe be
fully and finally eftranged from each other.
Again,
Original from
M C I M v n e v Dl ID I I r I I P D A R V
Digitized by Gocigle
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 45;
Again, if the benefic rays of the fortunate planets behold the configu­
rations of the luminaries in mutual reception, the marriage will be
durable, conftant, happy, and profitable; but, if the malefic planets
irradiate thofe places, the marriage will be unhappy, contentious, and
miferable. If the luminaries are not configurated in mutual reception,
yet if the benefics give teftimony to them, the marriage will be mode­
rately happy and durable} and, when ftrife and difagreements happen,
the fame will wear off, and reconciliation will take place between them ;
but, if the malefics give teftimony to the difcordant pofitions of the lu­
minaries, inconftancy and infidelity will enfue, and the marriage will
be diffolved with fcandal and difgrace. If Mercury be joined with the
malefics, the reparation will be for hatred and diflike, and by mutual
confent; but, if Venus gives teftimony to them, it will be a divorce, by
due courfe of law, for infidelity and adultery.
Marriages, in other refpe&s, are confidered from the familiarities and
connexions of Venus, Mars, and Saturn. For, if thefe are all three
configurated with the luminaries, the marriage will be good, domeftic,
and profitable; by reafon of the affinity which the benefic planet Venus
hath with Mars and Saturn; with Mars, becaufe of youth and florid coun­
tenance, feeing they have exaltation in mutual trigonal figns, as Mars in
Capricorn the triplicity of Venus, and Venus in Pifces the triplicity
of M ars; or Mars in Pifces the exaltation of Venus, and Venus in
Capricorn the exaltation of Mars. So likewife Capricorn and Libra are
common to Saturn and Venus; for Venus in Libra hath houfe, and Sa­
turn triplicity ; and in Capricorn Saturn hath houfe, and Venus tripli­
city ; and hence fhe bears relation to Saturn by an older complexion,
feeing they have their houfes trigonal to each other. Wherefore Venus
with Mars conduces to make the inclinations more fond and amorous;
and Mercury, giving teftimony to them, qualifies the paffions, and keeps
the fenfual appetite within rational bounds. If Venus be found in any
of the above familiar and promifcuous figns, fhe indicates marriages be­
tween kinfmen and relations; or, if fhe be with the Moon in a maf'cu-
line geniture, it predicts that two fillers, or near relations, will be mar­
ried to the fame man; but, if fhe be thus configurated to Jupiter, or the
Sun, in a feminine geniture, it fhews the woman will marry two bro­
thers, or two men that are nearly related.
It is likewife obfervahle, that, in all cafes where Venus is thus con­
figurated to Saturn, in the place of marriage, the connubial ftate
will be blifsful and happy to the native; and, if Mercury be joined
with them, he adds profperity 4 but, if Mars be fubftituted in his place.
No. 23. 5 S . the
Original from
M E W i / V n R I ^ Dl I R I 1r 1 I R B
Digitized by Go(. ale
456 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
the marriage will be altogether wretched, contentious, and unhappy.
If Mars be configurated to Venus, Saturn, and Mercury, the native
marries with a perfon nearly of an equal age; but, if he be pofited in an
oriental or eafterly ftation, the native marries with a perfon much youn­
ger ; and, if in an occidental or wefterly ftation, with a perfon much older.
If Venus and Saturn be found in promifeuous figns, fuch as Capricorn
or Libra, the native will marry among his own kindred ; but, if this
configuration is made upon the cufps of the horofeope or mid-heaven,
irradiated by the Moon, and the geniture be mafeuline, the native will
luft after his own lifter, aunt, or mother-in-law; or, if the geniture be
feminine, {he will have defire unto her own brother, uncle, or daugh­
ter’s hufband. Should the Sun irradiate the place, inftead of the Moon,
then the males will have defire toward their daughters, or fon’s wife ;
and the females to their fons, nephews, or lifter’s hulband.
Obfervation likewife proves, that, if Venus and Saturn are configu­
rated neither in a mafeuline nor feminine fign, but in thofe of an oppo-
fite quality, which are alike in fex, but contrary in nature; or in thofe
that are ruled by places of a contrary nature, as Capricorn is ruled by
Saturn and Mars, and Pifces by Jupiter and Venus; the native will be
prone to luft, of a loofe converfation, and immodeft carriage ; more par­
ticularly if the configuration be made in the firft or latter degrees of
Aries, near the Hyades, in the latter degrees of Leo, or upon the face
of Capricorn. And, if thefe planets occupy the two principal angles,
namely, the afeendant or mid-heaven, thefe libidinous affettions will be
the more ftrong, open, and oftenfive, making the party glory, as it were,
in lafeivioufnefs and debaucheries; but it is a moft extraordinary cir-
cumftance, that the fame afpedts in the northern and weftern angles not
only conduce to an oppofite difpofition, but render the native either
barren, deficient, or of evil conformation, in refpedt to the parts necef-
fary to generation.
The difpofition of men, as to modeft or vicious habits, very much de­
pends on the pofition and configurations of Mars; for, if he be feparat-
ing from Saturn and Venus, and applying to Jupiter, men born at that
time will be difereet and modeft, decent in their intercourfes with the
other fex, and difpofed only to the natural ofe. If Jupiter and Venus be
configurated to Saturn and Mars, the native will be eafily moved on, and
have a fecret defire to adts of venery; but will have an external (hew of
chaftity, and labour to avoid the {hame. If Mars and Venns are alone
configurated together, or if Jupiter bears teftimony, the native will be
openly lafeivious, and indulge in the ofoft luxuriant enjoyments of the
oppofite
Digitized by Google Original from
M P U / v n B k ' D I I D I i r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 457
oppofite fex. If one of thefe planets be oriental, and the other occi­
dental, he will be difpofed towards men as well as women; but, if both
are found configurated in the occidental quarters, the native’s company
fhould be avoided, for he will burn with unnatural defires after men or
boys; more particularly if the afpecl falls in mafculine figns, in which
cafe the inclination is moft aftonilhingly moved towards this infamous
and {hocking prafclice. It is likewife to be remarked, that, if Venus be
alone in an occidental pofition, the native will for the moft part have
intercourfe with none but the meaneft and moft proftituted part of the
fex; but, if Mars be alone in this pofition, he influences to greater delicacy
and faftidioufnefs, and marks the character with a defire after married wo­
men, or to the more continent and modeft among the {ingle ones.
Such are the caufes which vary the fenfual appetites of men; we will
now confider thofe peculiar to women.—If Venus be configurated to
Jupiter, and Mercury gives teftimony, the native will be fober, pure,
and moderate in her defires after men; but, having familiarity with Mer­
cury alone, (he will privately give herfelf up to fenfual embraces, though
remarkably coy and referved in public. So likewife, if Venus be con­
figurated to Mars alone, the native will be wanton and lafcivious ; and, if
Mercury has familiarity with them, (he will be wholly given up to luft-
ful pleafures and proftitution. If Jupiter concurs in this afpctl, and
Mars be combuft of the Sun, the native will be mean and abjed, fub-
mitting to the ufe of the moft vulgar and loweft clafs of mankind; but,
if Venus be combuft inftead of Mercury, {he will fubmit with more re-
ferve and caution, and moftly with decent and genteel perfons. If thefe
planets be configurated after a feminine manner, the fenfual appetite of the
native will be only paffive; but, if difpofed after a mafculine manner, it
will be a&ive alfo. Saturn, having familiarity with thefe configurations,
adds to the greater luft and licentioufnefs; but Jupiter to a greater {hare
of modefty, decency, and external decorum.
Of C H I L D R E N .
After the confideration of marriage follows that of children. This fpe-
culation is deduced from the ftars configurated in the midheaven, or
fuccedent, which is the eleventh houfe ; but, if none of the planets are
found in thefe places, then the oppofite ones are to be confidered. The
Moon, Jupiter, and Venus, are the givers of children; but the Sun,
Mars, and Saturn, occafion llerility, or paucity of children. Mercury,
as in all other cafes, contributes his influences according to the nature
and quality of that ftar or planet with which he is configurated ; adding
to the increafe of children when in the eaft, but tofterility and barren-
nefs
Digitized by Got. szle Original from
MP/ii v n e t ' Di i m 1r 1 i b b a b v
45S A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
nefs when occidental, or in the weft. When therefore thefe ftars which
are givers of children, are thus pofited, and by themfelves, they fore-
Ihew only one child to the native ; but, if they are formed in double-bo­
died or feminine figns, they caufe the generating of twins : fo likewife, in
fruitful figns, as Pifces, Cancer, or Scorpio, they will produce two or
three children at a birth. If they are of a mafculine nature, by being
configurated to the Sun, and in mufculine figns, they caufe males j but,
if they are difpofed after a feminine nature, they give females. If they
are overcome by malefic planets, and pofited in barren places or figns,
fuch as Leo or Virgo, they will give children, but not of any liability
or duration ; they will be naturally weak and puny, by being void of a
proper lhare of vital heat and nourilhment. If the Sun and malefic ftars
jointly polTefs the midheaven or eleventh houfe, in mafculine or fterilo
figns, without either of the benefics concurring, they indicate perpetual
barrennefs to the native, and (hew an utter want of children ? but, if they
be in feminine or fruitful figns, or aided by the benefics, they forelhew
the production of children, but fuch as are either hurt or blemilhed in
their bodies, or of a Ihort and unhealthy life.
In all thefe cafes it muft be remembered, that whenever the malefic
ftars have the dominion, and the benefics give teftimony, being configu­
rated in, or having refpedt to, prolific figns, there will happen a reje&ion
of children according to the excefs which the ftars giving teftimony have
in each condition, either of all the children, or of a few, or moft, as they
are found more powerful, by being more oriental or angular, or more ele­
vated or fuccedent. If therefore the lords of thofe figns, being givers of
children, are orientally pofited, or in good places of the figure, the chil­
dren will be fortunate and afpiring, and will arrive at Angular fame and
honour: but, if the pofition be occidental, or in evil places of the figure,
the children will be altogether mean and obfcure. Moreover, if they
agree with the part of fortune and horofcope, they forelhew mutual love
and confidence, and a good underftanding always to exift between the
children and parents, and that they will become the heirs and inheritors
of their fortunes; but, if thefe be found unconjoined and difiigreeing, the
children will be vicious and incorrigible, lofing the efteem, and wearing
out the patience, of their parents, and thereby perhaps miffing the inhe­
ritance of their fubftance. If the ftars which alfume the dominion of
children are agreeably configurated among themfelves, they forelhew love
and harmony among brothers and fillers, and that they will help and
affift one another during their lives. But, as to other particulars rela­
tive to the fortunes and general purfuit of children, they are to be fought
out by placing the fign and degree in which the fignificator of children
l is
gitized by G O O f i k
Original from
m c i a / v r i D ^ m ip i i r i i p r a b v
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 459
is found, upon the afcendant, and making the figns upon the cufps of
all the other houfes agreeable thereto, in the fame manner as if it was
the proper nativity of each child, and then judge of the difpofition of
the figure, according to the rules heretofore laid down.
O f F R I E N D S and E N E M I E S .
The things which relate to friendfhip and enmity are confidered by
obferving the principal places of the geniture wherein the fignificators
thereof have familiarity or afpedt, together with the weaknefs or ftrength
of them. The great and more durable familiarities or differences of thefc
ftars are termed fympathies and enmities ; and the fmall and temporary
familiarities are called focieties and contentions. To difeover thefe, we
muft carefully obferve the places of the Sun and Moon, in refpedt to the
horofeope and part of fortune; for, if thefe happen in the fame figns, or
if they change places when rifing, ,and not more than feventeen degrees
diftant, they forefhew long and faithful friendfhip; but, if they are in-
conjundl, or pofited in oppofite figns, they produce great and implacable
enmity and hatred. If the luminaries are not found in any of thefe fi-
tuations, but are only configurated in figns, either by trine or fextile,
they (hew flight and precarious friendfhip; but, if by quartile, fmall and
impotent enmity. Hence it happens- that friendfhips ceafe and appear
as it were at an utter end, while the malefics tranfit the configuration ;
and yet, when thefe are over, the friendfhip is again renewed, and
mutual civilities and good offices take place, as if no fuen circumftance
had happened. So in like manner the malicious objedts of hatred and
enmity feem to ceafe and lie dormant, when the benefic ftars are making
their ingrefs upon the configuration ; but are renewed with frefh ran­
cour foon after thefe ingrefles are at an end.
Friendfhip and enmity are therefore confidered under three kinds ; for
men are obferved to be fo difpofed either by eledtion, or for profit, or
for forrow or pleafure ; and when either all or moft of the forementioned
places have familiarity with each other, friendfhip is conftitutcd by thefe
three kinds; but, if thefe places are found unagreeable, then enmity arifes
in a fimilar manner. When the places of the luminaries alone have fa­
miliarity, friendfhip will arife from eledtion, involuntary choice, or na­
tural regard, which is the moft firm and lafting; but, if the places of the
luminaries are contrarily difpofed, hatred is in the fame manner pro­
duced, and is the moft inveterate and fatal. When the place of part of
fortune hath familiarity, or is otherwife found, then thefe affedtions
No. 23. 5 T arife
Original from
M H / l / V O R l f ' Dl ID I I C
a
ifin
n
fS
-n
rl-w
-a
^
n
Q
Q
a
r
i
P
/f
i
i
m
c
n
n
u
h
p
i
r
aaaaaa
/
/
t
1
i
i
i
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
F
u
n
-
»
i
f
i
n
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
460 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
arife from motives of lelf-intereft or gain ; but, when they are from the
horofcope, they are produced by thofe aflions of the mind which arife
from melancholy and choler, or from vivacity and good humour. But
in all thefe cafes we mult particularly obferve the ftars elevated above or
configurated with each of thefe refpeflive places ; for that place (hall give
a higher degree of friendfhip or enmity than any other, to which the
elevation or fucceflion of ftars is the neareft, whether in the fame fign
or the adjoining. But the place which pafles the ftars in configuration,
if the ftars are friendly, denotes advantage and intereft to be the caufe of
friendfhip; or, if difeordant ftars occur, enmity will arife from interefted
motives, which will expire with the caufe of it.
/
/
/ The foregoing obfervations are applicable to the moft extravagant and
/ lafting inftances of friendfhip and enmity j but thofe which arife from
more temporary and trivial caufes have a different fpeculation. The
common occafions of friendfhip or animofity, which arife in the general
purfuit of bufinefs or pleafure, or which arife from mixing with the
world, are only to be deduced from the motion of the ftars taken in
both genitures, in order to find when the fignificators in one nativity
fhall come to the fame point in the other nativity; for at fuch periods
there will arife particular friendfhips or enmities, which will have du­
ration no longer than the refpeflive familiarity or connexion of thefe
ftars exift. Saturn and Jupiter, coming in this manner to each other’s
places, caufe friendfhip by meeting in focieties or company; or by agree­
ment in hufbandry and agriculture, or by the joint inheritance of for­
tunes. Saturn and Mars produce ftrife and contention, and often fore-
ihew premeditated fraud and villainy. Saturn and Venus denote loveand
friendfhip through the interference of kindred, but it hath no duration.
Saturn and Mercury produce friendfhip by converfation or connexion in
bufinefs, fcience, or confederacy. Jupiter and Mars produce enmity by
politics, improper perferment, or interefted meafures of government.
Jupiter and Venus occafion friendfhip through the interference of wo­
men, ecclefiaftics, or teachers; Jupiter and Mercury through mutual
attachment to literature, fcience, and philofophy; Mars and Venus
caufe friendfhip by a like difpofilion to lafeivioufnefs, diflipation, and
intemperance; Mars and Mercury produce enmity by fimilar interefts
in bufinefs, or by the fame parties following the fame avocation; but
Venus and Mercury by means of jealoufy, learning, correfpondence by
letter, or love of women.
The increafe or decreafe of friendfhip and enmity is difeerned from the
nature of the poffeffed places of each fignificator, compared with the
1 firft
v
Digitized by C j O O Q I C
Original from
K \ C \ h l Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
firft four principal places of the figure > for, if they apply to the place of
the part of fortune, or to the luminaries angular, they render the friend-
lhip or enmity more confpicuous; but, feparated and disjoined, they
make them obfcureand fecret. To know whether thefe affedtions lhall
be more or lefs injurious or advantageous, we are to obferve the force
and power of the liars which behold the above-mentioned places, and
judge according to their quality and difpolition either to good or evil.
But, if it relates to good or evil from fervants, the place of the ruling
difpofition in refpedl of them in the figure mull be taken from the fign.
in the twelfth houfe, and from the liars which behold the place in the
geniture itfelf, with the ingrelfes or oppofition ; but more particularly
when the rulers of the figns have either familiarity with the principal
places of the geniture, or are contrarily and unhappily configurated;
from which judgment mull be made accordingly.
Of the Natural INCLINATION for TRAVELLING.
The circumllances which relate to travelling are confidered from the
pofition of the luminaries in refpedl to the angles, but chiefly from thofe
of the Moon; for, if Ihe be found in the feventh houfe, and declining
from angles, Ihe denotes a continual difpofition for travelling, and perpe­
tual change of place, to the native. Mars himfelf being occidental, or
declining from the midheaven, and having an oppofite or quartile pofi­
tion to the luminaries, will produce the lame inclination in a fomewhat
lefs degree. But, if the part of fortune falls in the fame fign with th?
fignificator of travelling, the principal part of the life and adlions of
the native will be fpent in a foreign country.
Whenever the benevolent planets irradiate the above-mentioned places
of the luminaries, or Mars, or the part of fortune, or fucceed to them,
the native’s 'travelling will be glorious and profitable, and his return
fafe and without impediment; but, if the malevolent liars behold or
fucceed, the contrary effedts will be found to happen. In all thefe cafes,
however, the quality and temperament of the fmaller familiarities, asthey
add to or take from the power and force of their configurations, muft
be invariably attended to. If the luminaries incline or fall to the ori­
ental quadrants, the travelling will be towards the eaftern or fouthern
parts of the globe, confidered in refpetl to the place of birth ; but, if
they are found in the occidental quadrants, the peregrination will be to­
wards the north or well. If the figns in which the fignificators of tra­
velling are pofited be of one form, either in refpedt of themfelves, or
of the flats which have the lordfhip over them, the travelling will be
Digitized by G o g g l e Original from
M H A l v n c i ' Dl ID I I r I I D R A D V
462 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
far, but at intervals; but, if the figns are double-bodied, or of two
forms, it will be perpetual, and of vaft extent. It mud however be
here obferved, that, though the caufes and fuccefs of travelling are in­
fluenced by Mars and the part of fortune, yet the quarter towards
which the peregrination fhall be is only to be known from the pofi-
tion of the luminaries.
If Jupiter and Venus are rulers both of the luminaries and places of
the figure which induce travelling, the journeys will not only be com­
pleted without danger, but they will alfo be pleafant, healthy, and
agreeable ; for, by the good government of the countries be vifits, and
the accidental meeting of friends, he will meet with hofpitality and kind-
nefs; the conftitution of the air, and the plenty of neceflary accommoda­
tions, contributing at the fame time to his health and prefervation ; and,
if Mercury be joined to the aforefaid configuration, an additional fhare of
honour, profit, and information, will be derived from the journey ; but,
if Saturn and Mars poflefs or govern the places of the luminaries, at a
great diftance from each other, they will occafion great dangers and a
variety of ill fortune in the courfe of the journey. Being in moift fignts,
they denote misfortune by Ihipwreck, or falling into defolate and inac-
ceflible places; in fixed figns, by precipices, or tempeftuous and con­
trary winds; in tropical and equinoctial figns, by want of provifions,
by a fcorbutic or epidemic diforder, or by afickly temperature of the air;
in human figns, by the fudden attack of mountaineers and robbers, of
favages, or ambufeades ; in earthy ligns, by the attack of wild and fe­
rocious animals, or by falling into pits, or fubterraneous places; but
if Mercury gives teftimony in any of the foregoing cafes, the danger
may arife from venomous creatures, or by poifon, or fome villainous
accufation.
Thefe are the general confiderations ; but the more particular, fuch as
relate to the peculiar advantage or injury of each event, muft be deduced
from the nature and property of the principal places and fignificators of
profeflion and fubftance, of dignity and honour, or of bodily and mental
endowments, according to the rules already premiled. But the know­
ledge of the times when thefe various incidents are to happen is only to
be acquired from the refult of the directions of each refpeftive fignifi-
cator, by the method which we fhall prefently recommend.
Of
Digitized by Gov ole Original from
kipa/ v n r v di ip 1i r 1IPp a r v
Of the APHETA , HY LEG, PRORO G A TO R, or SIG N IFICA TO R
of L IFE , and the Places proper thereto.
The aphetic, hylegiacal, or prorogatory, places, are thofe particular
places of the figure, or of the heavens, from whence the apheta, hyleg,
prorogator, or fignificator of life, is to be taken. Thefe appellations:
have all the fame meaning, and fignify that planet or ftar which is lord
life. The firft is derived from the Greek, the fecond from the Hebrew,
and the latter from the Latin.
The hylegiacal or prorogatory places are in number five, viz, the
afeendant, the feventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, houfes, and are ta­
ken from the five degrees next and immediately above the cufp of the
afeendant to the twenty-five degrees below the cufp of the fame, com­
puted by oblique afeenfion. In the fame manner the prorogatory places,
are determined in the feventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, houfes; for
inftance, it is computed from the five degrees in the eighth houfe, to
the middle of the eleventh houfe, towards the twelfth ; which middle
is eafily found, by adding half the femidiurnal arch to the right afeenfion
of the medium coeli, and where that ends is the middle of the eleventh
houfe ; the part beyond which is not hylegiacal or prorogatory. Now
thefe only are the places in which the planet who afluines the power of
hyleg or giver of life can be found $ for whatfoever is under the earth
is not fit for fuch dominion j nor is any pafition above the earth, which
hath not configuration to the horofeope. The twelfth houfe, therefore,
which is called the evil angel, is not prorogatory, becaufe it not only de­
clines from the angle, but alfo makes the influence of the flars polited
therein of an evil tendency, fince it difturbs, and as it were dellroys, the
thick vappur proceeding from the moifture of the earth, whereby they
become contrary to nature both in colour and magnitude.
If the native’s birth be by day, the Sun fhall be taken for hyleg, pro­
rogator, or giver of life, if he be found in any of the foregoing hylegiacal
places ; if he be not,, then obferve whether the Moon be polited in either
of them, and, if fo, then the fhall be taken for fignificator of life. But'
if neither of the luminaries be fo found, then any planet whatfoever, that
hath moft dignities in the place of the Sun at the preceding conjun&ion
with the Moon, and in the horofeope, -fhall be preferred as figniheator of
life. It muft however be remembered, that this planet muft be dignified
three ways or more, in one of the above-mentioned places, to be fo pre­
ferred ; but, if no planet fhould be found fo dignified, or, if dignified, not
in an aphetical place, then take the afeendant for giver of life.
If the time of birth happens to be by night, the Moon fhall be pre­
ferred for giver of life, if fhe be pofited in any of the aphetical places of
No. 23. 5 U the
Digitized by Go<. gle Original from
M n / i f VPi Rk ' Dl IQI i r I I D D A D V
p>iRnnfi-nrl-w
-a«;n
i
m
c
;
n
n
il
h
p
i
paaaaaa
/
/
t
I
tti
i
/
n
p
>
7
n
ifiin
-a
iP
in
n
n
'i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
Digiti;
the figure. If (he be not, then the Sun (hall be preferred, if found in
any of thefe places; but, if neither Sun nor Moon be fo fituated, then any
planet whatever, which was mod dignified in the place of the preceding
full Moon, and in the place of the part of fortune, (hall he preferred. If
none fuch are found in the geniture, the afcendant (hall be taken for
giver of life, if a conjundlion preceded ; but, if it was a full Moon, then
the part of fortune mud be preferred. If both the luminaries, or feveral
of the planets which affume the power of fignificator of life by the
above-mentioned conditions, are found together in the aphetical places,
and feem to contend for dominion of prorogation, then that (hall be pre­
ferred which is found in the mod principal place of the luminaries, whe­
ther it be the Sun, Moon, or any other planet whatever. The princi­
pal places of the luminaries are thefe : fird, in the medium cceli; next,
in the afcendant; then, in the eleventh houfe; next to that, the feventh ;
and, ladly, the ninth houfe. According to this order, therefore, by the
genethliacal figure at the time of birth, (hall the fignificator of life be
fought out and afcertained.
Of the ANARETICAL or KILLIN G PLAN ET, and of the
QUALITY of D EA TH .
The anaretic or killing places are the places of Saturn and Mars,
which kill according to the diredion of thehyleg to the fucceeding figns,
when they meet either bodily, or cad their rays from any place of the
figure, whether it be by quartile or oppofition ; and fometimes it hap­
pens by fextiles, when they proceed from figns obedient or beholding,
becaufe they have then the fame efficacy with the quartile or oppofition.
So likewife a quartile, configurated from the following or fucceeding
figns to the aphetic place; and alfo a fextile evilly affeded, when in
figns of long afcenfion; and even the trines, in (hort afcenfions, have
fufficient force to kill, when unimpeded by benefic rays; as will alfo the
lolar place, if the Moon be hyleg. But it mud be remembered that
thefe places are only anaretic when they are evilly affeded; for their
anaretic or killing power is impeded or dedroyed, whenever it falls in the
terms of a benefic dar, or whenever the benefics cad a fextile, quartile,
trine, or oppofitional, ray to the very anaretical point, or to thole points
which follow. Hence life is generally found to bepreferved, when Ju­
piter is not above twelve degrees didant from the anareta or killing pla­
net ; or when Venus is not more than eight. The zodiacal afpedts of
the anaretic or killing dars will be likewife of little force, whenever the
latitude of the apheta, or giver of life, and that of the anareta, or de-
jfirpyer of life, doth not correfpond.
W hen
b
yGoogle Original from
K I P 1A/ v n u t ' DI ID I Ir I I R D A D V
\Vhen the afliftingand anaretic rays are found two or more on each fide,
we muft obferve which of them exceed moftin number and power, which
is to be underftood when the benefics or anaretas are fome of them in
proper places of the figure, and others n o t; particularly when fome are
oriental, and others occidental, either in refpeCt of the Sun or the figure
itfelf; for in general no planet under the beams of the Sun hath power
to kill or fave, unlefs when the Moon is giver of life ; in which cafe the
place of the Sun, being affliCted by fome malefic planet joined to it, and
receiving no help from benefic rays, will certainly produce death ; but,
if any benevolent configuration irradiates the place, the native’s life will
be preferved.
To define the caufe and quality of death, we muft confider whether it
is likely to happen by means of the beams of the malefic ftars being caft
orientally j for the place of the malefic or anaretical planet, if joined by
body, or, if not, the place of the afpeCt, ought carefully to be obferved,
in order to judge of the quality of death. If thefe deftruCtive beams flow
occidentally, confider the occidental place of the ftar > for, fuch as they
are which have dignities in the anaretic place, fuch will be the quality
of death ; or, if no planet hath dignities therein, then fuch as before others
are carried by their motions to thefe anaretic places are to be efteemed
the caufers of death, and our judgment ftioulft be regulated thereby ; the
configurations of the ftars made thereto being likewife confidered, to­
gether with the nature of the figns and the terms in which they fall.
Saturn, poflefling the dominion of death, caufeth death by chronic
diftempers, phthyfics, fluxes, agues, difeafes of the fpleen, dropfies*
iliac and hyfteric diftempers, and, in a word, by all thofe diforders
arifing from abundance of cold. Jupiter produceth death by the quinzey,
inflammation of the lungs, apoplexy, cramps, and cardiac affeCtions, and
by thofe diforders which happen with vehement and ftinking breath­
ing. Mars caufeth death by continual fevers, femi-tertians, fudden ftrokes
and nephritic affections, fpitting of blood and hemorrhage, by abortion
and birth, and St. Anthony’s fire, and by all diforders which arife from
abundance of heat. Venus induceth death by affeCtions of the fto-
mach and liver, ringworms, and bloody flux; alfo by putrefaction and
fiftulas, and giving of poifon; and, in a word, by all thofe complaints
which proceed from abundance of moifture, or through want or wafting
thereof. Mercury deftroys life by madnef's, extafy, and melancholy ;
falling ficknefs, coughs, and fpitting aifeCtions, and by thofe which hap ­
pen Amply through much drinefs, or a want thereof. And thefe deaths
happen
Original from
MCIA/ v n o k ' D I I D I i r I ID Q A R V
4^6 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
happen naturally, when the rulers of death are in their proper and natu­
ral quality, and none of the malefics concur.
Violent and remarkable deaths happen when both the malefics are
lords of the anaretic places, or when both or one of the two are joined to,
or fquare, or oppofe, or evilly affedl, both of the luminaries, or the Sun
alone, or the Moon j for then the mifchievoufnefs and violence of death is
produced by the evil affections of the malefics. But the remarkablenefs
and extraordinary circumftances of the death proceed from the teftimony
of the lights; and its quality is known from the reft of the afpedting
liars, and the figns containing the malefics. Saturn therefore inquar-
tile or oppofition to the Sun, orientally, and in fixed figns, caufeth death
by fuffocation, tumults of the people, or by hanging or ftranglifig; in
like manner he doth the fame if he be occidental, and the Moon follow;
or, if he be in beaft-like figns or places, he caufeth toperilh by beafts;
and Venus, being jointed to them, caufeth death by poifon, or by the
treachery of women. If he is in Virgo or Pifces, or in moift figns, con­
figurated to the Moon, he will caufe death by water, by being fuffocated
and drowned; if he be about Argo, by Ihipwreck; if he be in tropical or
equino&ial figns, the Sun being with him, or oppofing, or if Mars be
there, he will caufe death by the effetls of a fall; if they are in the tenth
houfe, death will happen by precipitation from on high ; thus Saturn
caufes thefe effeCts, being configurated to the luminaries.
Mars in quartile or oppofition to the Sun, and the Sun or Moon ori*
ental, in figns of human form, will caufe death by daughter, either
civil or hoftile, or by laying violent hands upon himfelf. If Venus give
teftimony, death will enfue by means of women; if Mercury be configu­
rated to them, death will enfue by robbers, and evil doers, and pirates.
If he be in mutilated or imperfedl figns, or with the Gorgon of
Berleus, he will induce to death by beheading, or by the effect of ampu­
tation. Being found in Scorpio or Taurus, he will caufe death by me­
dical cutting and burning, or by contractions; but, if he be found in the
midheaven, or oppofite to the midheaven, he vill caufe death by hanging;
particularly if he be found about Cepbeus and Andromeda. If he be found
in the weft, or oppofite to the horolcope, he will caufe death by fire ;
but, if he be found in fourfooted figns, he will caufe death by falling, or
by the breaking of limbs. If Jupiter gives teftimony to Mars, and he
evilly affe&ed, death will happen through the anger of princes, or by
condemnation. If the malefics efpecially agree together, and both of
them evilly affedt any of the faid places, they make the cruelty of the
death the greater. The quality of death, and the ruling thereof, always
will
Original from
Met*/ v n m / n ii Di m i i d d a d v
Digitized by Go*,.sle
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 467
will be (hewn by the ftar that is in the anaretic place; but death will
happen in ftrange places when the ftars which poffefs the anaretic point
fall from angles; and efpecially when the Moon is either found with, or
in quartile or oppolition to, the faid places.
Thus the caufe and quality of death are to be fought out, and the ex­
tent of life known, by the refult of the directions of each refpeCtive fig-
nificator, either direCt, by which the anaretic point is carried to the
place of the giver of life; or converfe, by the hyleg being carried to
the weft angle, which alone of all converfe directions hath power to
cut off life.
4
Of D I R E C T I O N S .
A dire£lion, or an arch of direction, is the pathway or track defcribed
in the heavens by any planet that is fignlficator, or that affumes the do­
minion or government of life, or any other incident or event peculiar
to the native, from the moment of birth to its meeting or forming an
afpeCt with the anaretas, or promittors, at which time the event, be
it what it may, that is indicated thereby, comes to pafs. For, as all the
heavenly bodies conftantly move in circles, their progrefs, whether for a
long or fhort time, will neceflarily form arches, the content or degrees of
which, being accurately found, and meafured, or equated by the folar mo­
tion, will defcribe the length of time, whether it be years, months, or
days, which the fignificator will be in forming the arch of direction
which produces the event. Now thefe directions are known by the
following rules, and are of two diftinCt clalfes, the firft of which is zo­
diacal, or according to the circle of the zodiac; and the fecond, mun­
dane, or according to the motion of the planets round the earth, or in re­
lation to their proportional diftance from the l'everal houfes of the figure.
Z O D I A C A L D I R E C T I O N S .
How to direct the SUN,
.beingin or near the Midheaven, namely, when he
is either on, or not more than three degreesfrom, the of the Houfe.
Firft, Take the right afcenfion of the Sun, and"then the place of the
afpect to which it is to be directed, viz. the right afcenfion of the afpect,
whether it be a conjunction or oppofite ; the latitude in this cafe is to
be negleCted if he. hath not greater latitude than his orb; if he hath, it
is not to be neglected; this is the difference between the horizontal (or
mundane) and zodiacal afpeus, becaufe they are made from the greateft
No. 23. 5 X nearncfs
Digitized by Go( gle Original from
MEl/if v n UY DIIDI Ir I I R B A P V
u
u
n
i
c
m
i,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
iy
i
L
i
z
.t
:
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
id
u
iil
i
u
b
L
.u
r
y
/d
t
.L
t
;
b
b
_
u
b
t
:
-
«
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
it
:
468 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
nearnefs to the greateft diftance of the ftars amongft themfelves; and
above the real path of them in the zodiac. The greateft nearnefs hap­
pens in the fame partile longitude, although they are diftant and differ
according to latitude ; unlefs, aslhavefaid, the latitude, in either oppo-
fition or conjunction, exceeds the greatnefs of their orb ; if it be greater,
then is the conjun&ion or oppofition in the zodjac of final1 force; now
fubtraft the right afcenfion of the Sun from the right afcenfion of the
planet’s afpeft, and the remainder in the arch of direction. As for ex­
ample, fuppofe the medium cceli, in eight degrees fifteen minutes of' Scor­
pio, and the Sun in eight degrees twenty-one minutes of the fame fign,
to be dire&ed to the conjunction of Venus in twenty-two degrees forty-
five minutes of Sagittary. The right afcenfion of the Sun is two hundred
fifteen degrees fifty-eight minutes, the right afcenfion of Venus is two
hundred and fixty-two degrees eight minutes; fubtract the right afcen­
fion of the Sun from the right afcenfion of Venus, and there remains for­
ty-fix degrees ten minutes, which is the truearch of direction ; and which,
if equated, or turned into time, according to the folar motion, by the rules
hereafter laid down, will fhew the time when this afpett will be formed.
Howto direSi the S
U
N
,beingnear the Horofcope or /eventh H
Take the oblique afcenfion of the Sun, in the latitude of the place, if
it be in the afeendant, and near the cufp thereof; but, if near the cufp of
the feventh houfe, his oblique defcenlion or the oblique afcenfion of his
oppofite place; then take the oblique afcenfion or oblique defeenfion of
the afpebts, under the fame pole, ftill neglecting their latitude if it be
not greater than their orb ; then fubtradl the oblique afcenfion of the Sun
from the oblique afcenfion of the afpe<ft, and the remainder is the arch
of dire£tion required.
How to direSlthe SU N above the E
a
r
t
h
, fa r di/lant from any of the
cardinal Houfes. I f the Sun be above the , and above three Degrees
dijlantfrom the Cufp ofthe cardinal , do thus :—
Take the diftance of the Sun from the midheaven in rightafeenfion, and
from that fubtraCf the right afcenfion of the nfpetts, which we call the
firft diftance ; then get the femidiurnal arch of the Sun, and alfo of the
afpedls, and by the rule of proportion fay, if the femidiurnal arch of the
Sun gives that right afcenfional diftance, what lliall the femidiurnal arch
of the sfpe<2: or promittor give? the produdt flaall be the fecondary
right
Digitized by Gc
ksle Original from
KIPtAJ Dl ID I Ir I I D B A P V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 469
right afcenfion; and, if both be made in the afcending part of heaven,
fubtraft the fecondary afcenfion from the primary, and the remainder is
the arch of dire&ion.
Another .
Take the elevation of the pole of the Sun, and therein the oblique
afcenfion of the Sun, and likewife the oblique afcenfion of the afpedt:
fubtraft one from the other, and the remainder is the arch of direction.
For this reafon, I have fet the table of the eleventh, third, twelfth, and
fecond, houfes, from thirty to fixty degrees of north or fouth latitude.
How to take the Pole of Pofition, commonly called the Circle of Pofition, of the
SU N or any other Signifcator.
Firft obferve whether the fignificator be above or under the earth : if
above, get his femidiurnal arch } if under, his feminoilurnal; which,
being obtained, mull be converted into degrees and minutes, whereof
one third part is the pole of one houfe ; then take the liar’s diftance from
the nearelt houfe to which he is placed, and by the rule of proportion
lay, if the third part of the femidiurnal or feminodurnal arch of the fig­
nificator gives the pole of the other houfe, what lliall his diftance give ?
which if it falls in the third, fourth, ninth, or tenth, houfes, the remain­
der is the pole of pofition ; but, if it falls in the firft, fecond, fifth,
fixth, feventh, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, add or fubtradl it to or from
the pole of the fucceeding or preceding houfe; as for example: the
Moon’s femidiurnal arch is eight hours fifteen minutes ; a third part is
two hours forty-five minutes; which, converted into degrees, give forty-
one degrees fifteen minutes for the fipace of one houfe; the Moon’s dif­
tance from the tenth houfe in right afcenfion is thirty-three degrees fifty
minutes, the pole of the eleventh houfe is twenty-three degrees ; then by
the rule of proportion fay, if forty-one degrees fifteen minutes, being the
fpace of one houfe, give twenty-three degrees, the pole of the eleventh
houfe, what lhall thirty-three degree fifty minutes give ? It gives eigh­
teen degrees fifty-two minutes for the Moon’s true circle or pole of pofi­
tion. But, becaufe it is near nineteen degrees, I take nineteen degrees
for her pole; and note, that, if odd minutes at any time exceed thirty,
accept of it as a whole degree ; but, if they be under thirty, then rejedt
them entirely.
IIow
Digitized by Got gle Original from
M P U l V n D b ' Dl I P I Ir I I R D A D V
u
u
i
i
i
c
m
i
,
o
u
u
y
i
t
:
-
u
i
y
l
u
^
t
i
u
/
i
ill|j;//v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
io
u
iiu
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/
c
i
<
-
t
.
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
t
f
-
|
j
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
w to o . i r d t t h e SU Nto anyNfpccl, being under the "Earth, in th
of Twiligh
The Sun, being found in the fpace of twilight, ought to be directed
above parallel circles to the horizon, and not above horary circles, as
when the Sun is above the earth. If the Sun be found in the morning
twilight, firft diredt the Sun to the degree of the afpedt under the lati­
tude of the place, although the Sun is not there, and afterwards take
the didance of the Sun from the horofcope, in oblique afcenfion, which
call the Sun’s primary diftance; and be careful that this didance be, not
greater than the parallel of twilight, which does not exceed eighteen de­
grees, for, if it be, the Sun is not in that parallel, and in this cafeyou mud
work by the following rule ; but, if the Sun be in the parallel of twilight,
then, with the diftance of the Sun from the horizon above taken, enter
the table of twilight under the latitude of the place, which is in the top
of the table, and with the fign and degree in the head or foot of the table :
and in the angle of meeting, or body of the table, find the diftance of
the Sun from his rifing, and obferve the degree of the parallel of twi­
light, which the Sun pofl'cflcs in the firft column, taking the proper-
tional part of the Sun’s place to degrees ; and under the fame parallel
look out the diftance of the direction, that is to fay, what diftance the
Sun is from the horofcope, in that parallel of tw ilight; and this diftance
call the fecondary diftance ; then, if both the firft and fecond diftance are
equal, the true arch of dire&ion is that which was firft taken in the
horofcope; but, if they are not equal, l'ubtratt the lefs from the greater,
and the remainder call the oriental diftance; and, if the fecondary diftance
be greater than the primary, then fubtraff the oriental diftance from the
arch of direction, and the remainder is the true arch of direction, which
is to be equated as before. In feeking the primary diftance of the Sun
from the horofcope, in the tables of twilight hereafter inferted, it is
fufficient to take the proportional part of the degree only, rejecting the
minutes, which, when taken, note the degree of the depreffion or paral­
lel of twilight, and in the right line with parallel diftance find the
neareft proportional diftance, which when found by proportional parts,
the firft primary natural diftance of the Sun may be neglected, for it is not
necefTary to take the degrees and minutes of the depreffion of twilight, but
it is only the greateft and the neareft degree of the Sun’slongitude with the
proportional part; as for example: the Sun directed to the quartile of
Mercury in no degree of Cancer, Mercury being in no degree of Aries at
birth ; at the fame time eleven degrees of Pifces afeend. In the latitude
forty-four degrees, the Sun being in Aries, fifteen degrees forty-fix mi­
nutes.
Digitized by Google Original from
M P A / di m i i r i i b r a b v
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 471
nutes, the oblique afcenfion of the afeendant in that latitude is three
hundred forty-nine degrees forty-five minutes, the oblique afcenfion of
the fun, with the circle, is three hundred and fixty-eight degrees twenty-
eight minutes, the difference is eighteen degases forty-three minutes;
enter the table of twilight in the latitude of forty-four degrees, and
there look for this difiance, eighteen degrees forty-three minutes, and
alfo for fixteen degrees of Aries, which cannot be found; but there is
ten degrees and twenty degrees, which is near enough; now under ten de­
grees of Aries is eighteen degrees thirty two minutes; and under twenty
degrees, I find nineteen degrees one minute, the difference is twenty-
nine minutes; then I fay. If ten degrees give twenty-nine minutes, what
fhall fix degrees give? anfwer, feventeen minutes, which, being added to
eighteen degrees thirty-two minutes, make eighteen degrees forty-nine
minutes, and againft that in the firft column is the parallel of twilight
thirteen degrees required.
Now the Sun’s primary diftance, viz. eighteen degrees forty-three mi­
nutes, being neglefcled as aforefaid, I take eighteen degrees forty-nine mi­
nutes; then looking out the afpedl, which falls in no degrees of Cancer,
under the latitude forty-four degrees, and thirteen degrees parallel of twi­
light, I find twenty-four degrees forty-five minutes, which is the fecoh-
dary diftance, and is greater than the primary by five degrees fifty-fix
minutes; the oblique afcenfion of the Sun is eight degrees twenty-eight
minutes, and the oblique afcenfion*of the afpedt is fixty-five degrees ten
minutes,and both underthelatitudeof forty-four degrees. Now I fubtrafct
the oblique afcenfion of the Sun from the oblique afcenfion of the af-
peci, and the difference is fifty-fix degrees forty-two minutes. And, be-
caufe the fecondary diftance is greater than the primary, I fubtradt five
degrees fifty-fix minutes from the aforefaid fifty-fix degrees forty-two
minutes, and there remains fifty degrees forty-fix minutes, the true arch of
direction required, which is to be equated as before. If the Sun is to be
diredted at evening twilight, all things muft be noted as before, but juft
contrary in all the operations, or elfe taken in oblique afcenfion to all the
oppofite places.
To direft the Sun, being found beyond the Parallel of , under the
Earth.
If the Sun be found under the earth, whether oriental or occiden­
tal, out of the parallel of twilight: Firft take his feminoclurnal arch,
and from thence fubtraci his whole arch of twilight, and keep the re­
mainder, which is the obfeure arch ; afterwards take the feminodlurn.il
arch of the afpeft, from whence fubtracf his whole arch of twilight.
No. 24. $ Y and
Digitized by Google Original from
MCVA/ Dl IQ I I r I I D R A D V
472 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
and the remainder is the obfcure arch of the afpect. Next take the
diftance both of the Sun and afpect from the fourth houfe in right afeenfion j
then by the rule of proportion fay. If the whole arch of obfeurity of the
Sun gives his diftance from-the fourth houfe, what ftiall the arch of
obfeurity of the afpect give ? which diftance being found, obferve the
lame rules as in directing the Sun above the earth, and confider the arches
of obfeurity the liune as the femidiurnal or feminocturnal arches :
>
ForExample,;
Let the Sun, in eleven degrees forty-five minutes of Aquaries, be*'di-
rccted to an afpect in twenty-two degrees thirty-five minutes of Pifces;
the feminocturnal arch of the Sun is feven hours feven minutes, the whole
arch of twilight being fubtracted, which is one hour forty-three minutes,
the remaining five hours twenty-four minutes is the argh of obfeurity;
the Sun’s diftance from thefourth houfe,in right afeenfion, is forty degrees
eleven minutes. Now the feminocturnal arch of the afpect is fix hours ele­
ven minutes,and his archof twilightis onehourthirty-nineminutes, which
being fubtracted from the feminocturnal arch, leaves four hours thirty-two
minutes for the arch of obfeurity. The diftance of the afpect from the
fourth houfe in right afeenfion is feventy-nine degrees ten minutes; then
by the rule of proportion fay. If five hours twenty-four minutes give forty
degrees eleven minutes, what (hall four hours thirty-two minutes give ?
thirty three degrees forty-four minute^, the arch of direction required..
To direct the Sunto Zodiacal P
a
r
a
l
l
e
l
s
, being f
Heavens.
Firft find the declination of the promittors, with latitude if they have
any, and fee what degree and minute of the Ecliptic anfwers to that
declination, which is its parallel; if the Sun be near the cardinal houfes,
his direction is as aforefaid, but, if farther diftant, then direct under his
proper pole of pofition, as above fjpecified.
To direSta Signifcator, having Latitude, to any Conjunction or
As the Sun keeps his true courfe in the Ecliptic, fo the reft of the
planets which have latitude, when they come to be directed to any
afpect, move in their own fpheres according to their fucceffion of la­
titude. We call it fucceffion, becaufe it is not always the fame, but is
changed according to the greateft diftance or nearnefs that they are to
the nodes ; therefore it follows, that a Significator having latitude when
he is to be directed to any afpect, the latitude of the afpect is to be neg­
lected.
Original from
m c i / u v n e t ' di m i i r i i b d a b v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 4 7 3
lefted, and the latitude which the fignificator hath at that place where
the afpeft falls is to be taken ; and-the directions are the lame as the
others; only negleding the rule of the Sun’s direction under the earth.
Todireft aSignificator, having , to Parallels.
Firft find the declination of the ftar, to whofe parallel you would di-
re6t a fignificator with latitude, which when found, enter the tables of
declination with the latitude the fignificator (hall have in that place, un­
til you come to the degrees and minutes of the promittor’s declination:
' As fo r Example.
I would direft the Moon to the Parallel of Saturn.
Suppofe Saturn to be in thirteen degrees of Pifces, and his latitude one
degree fouth ; his declination will be found to be feven degrees thirty-
fevt n minutes, which in the Ecliptic anfwcrs to about ten degrees of
Pifces; the Moon is in twenty-four degrees of Leo; now I enter the
tables of declination under Virgo, the oppofite part, in that place where
the Moon meets with this parallel. The Moon’s north node is in nine­
teen degrees of Cancer, fo in that place fhe will have three degrees fifty-
three minutes north latitude, with which I enter the table of declination;
and againft ten degrees of Virgo, and four degrees north latitude, I find
eleven degrees thirty-three minutes, which is too njuch; fo under the
faid four degrees of latitude I come to twenty-one degrees of Virgo, a-
gainft which I find feven degrees fifteen minutes, and under five degrees
north latitude I find eight degrees ten minutes, in which faid twenty-
one degrees of Virgo I find what latitude the Moon will have, and by
her diftance from her node I find fhe hath four degrees twenty-three mi­
nutes north latitude. Now the difference between feven degrees fifteen
minutes and eight'degrees ten minutes is fifty-five minutes; therefore'
I fay. If fixty minutes give fifty-five minutes, what fhall twenty-three
give? anfwer, twenty-one minutes, which, added to feven degrees fifteen
minutes, will make feven degrees thirty-fix minutes, which fliews, that
twenty-one degrees of Virgo is the true parallel of Saturn.
How to direft a Signifocator to his own proper Afpefts.
F int find his longitude, that is, the longitude of his afpect in the
Ecliptic, if it be the Sun; and according to her latitude, if it be the
Moon ; always obferving the latitude thatfhe hath at the place of her af­
pect, which is found by her diftance from her nodes, as before taught;
then
Digitized by Got.>gle Origiral from
M P / i / d i i p i i r i i d
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
47+
then take the right afcenfion or oblique afcenfion of the afpect, both in
latitude and longitude, and work according to the former rules j but
note that neither the afeendant nor medium cceli are to be directed to any
of the planet’s afpects in the Zodiac, but to thofe in the world only; nor
to parallels in the Zodiac, but to thofe in the Horizon or world, and to
tliefe always direct, and never converfe.
Of M U N D A N E D I R E C T I O N S .
The afpects in the world are proportional diftances by their motion
about the world; for a ftar, that fhall be diftant from the Horizon a third
part of his diurnal arch, fhall call his Textile to the afeendant; and, if he
be half his diurnal arch, he will caft a quartile to the afeendant; and
two third parts of his arch is a trine, and his whole arch is an oppofition;
therefore the firft houfe is in Textile to the eleventh and third, and in
quartile to the tenth and fourth; in trine to the ninth and fifth, and in op-
pefition to the feventh; and fo of the reft. And, although the diurnal and
nodturnal arches differ among themfelves, yet the houfes have no dif-
tindtion, property, nature, or force, of themfelves, but what they re­
ceive from the ftars, and in the divifion of the houfes by double horary
times, according to the method and rules of Ptolomy. The houfes have
no more refpedt to the Ecliptic than if there were no fuch thing; for
they have only refpedt to the femidiurnal and feminodurnal arches of the
ftars; and the afpedts they make in the world, to any houfe or from any
houfe, have no refpedt to the Ecliptic but according to their femidi­
urnal and feminodturna! arches, or according to their motion about the
world; which being rightlyconfidered, and well underftood, will render
the whole mundane art of diredtions very eafy.
To diredl theMid-heaven or the Afeendant to the Quartile, orTrine,
ofany Star.
If you would diredt the mid-heaven to a Textile of any ftar that is
placed either in the twelfth, afeendant, or fecond houfe, you have only
to do thus: take the oblique afcenfion of the cufp of the twelfth houfe,
under its proper pole, and under the fame pole the oblique afcenfion of
the promittor; fubtradl the one from the other, and you will have the
arch of diredlion. For; obferve, that, when the houfe is directed to the
body of any planet, at the fame time the mid-heaven comes to the Tex­
tile, and, when the afeendant comes to the body of any ftar, at the fame
time the mid-heaven is diredted to the quartile thereof; and, when the
cufp of the fecond houfe is directed to the body of a ftar, then the mid­
heaven
wnGoogle Original from
M CI A/ V r s D L ' n i ID I I f* I I D D A B V
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 475
heaven comes to the trine j fo that, by always obferving this rule, it will
be impoflible to err; for thefeafpeds in the world are not made by their
diftance in figns, degrees, and minutes, but by their diftance according
to the order or fucceflion of the houfes, which diftances are afeertained
by the fetnidiurnal or feminodurnal arches.
The fame rule is alfo to be followed in direding the afeendant as was
obferved in the mid-heaven ; for, if it be required to direct the afeendant
to a fextile, We have no more to do than to dired the cufp of the eleventh
houfe if the promittor be above the earth, or the cufp of the third
houfe if he be under the earth, to his body; in both of which cafes
the afeendant will be found to come to his fextile. If it be required to
dired the afeendant to a quartile, obferve whether the promittor be
above the earth ; and, if fo, dired the mid-heaven to his body; biit, if un­
der the earth, dired the cufp of the fourth houfe to his body, either of
which operations will bring the afeendant to his quartile ; but, if the
afeendant is to be direded to a trine, then, if the promittor be above
the earth, dired the cufp of the ninth houfe to his body; but, if under
the earth, the cufp of the fifth houfe, which will in the fame manner
bring the afeendant to his trine. By an attention to thefe rules, the
angular houfes may at all times be direded with Angular eafe and exad-
nefs; for, having found the cufp of the houfe required, we are to dired
under the pole of that houfe, let the pofition of the ftar be where it will}
which if rightly done, the diredion will never fail of being true.
Todireft theAfeendant or Medium-coeli to the Conjunction or Oppoftion of
any Star.
To dired the medium-coeli to a conjundion or oppofition, take the
right afcenfion of the tenth houfe from the right afeenfion of the ftar,
with latitude; and after the fame manner the conjundion, with con­
trary latitude; the remainder is the arch of diredion fought. But, in di­
recting the afeendant to the conjundion of a ftar, fubtrad the oblique
afcenlion of the afeendant from the oblique afcenfion of the ftar, with
latitude, if any ; and in the fame manner for an oppofition, only with
contrary latitude, and the remainders will be the arches of diredion
required.
Another Way to direct the Afeendant.
Subtrad the femidiurnal arch of the ftar from his right afcenfion,
and from the remainder fubtrad the right afcenfion of the medium-
No. 24, 5 Z cceli.
Digitized by Go*,>ale Origirkal from
M P U / V H D V Dl I D I i r I I P D A D V
476 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
coeli, and there will remain the true arch of direction of the afcendant,
as before. By the fame operation the afcendant may be directed to any
of the fixed ftars.
Another Way to direct the M
e
d
i
u
m
-
c
c
e
l
i
t
oa Sextile, or Trine.
Firft enter the tables of declination with the ftar’s place, and take its
declination according to -its latitude, obferving to what degree of the
ecliptic that declination anfwers j if it be above the greateft obliquity,
work by the tables of afcenfional difference, and find its femidiurnal
arch ; but, if the declination be within twenty-three degrees thirty mi­
nutes, enter the tables of femidiurnal arches, and look for the corref-
ponding degrees in the ecliptic, and againft it will be found the femi­
diurnal arch in hours and minutes, which muft be converted into degrees
and minutes of the equator, whereof two thirds make a fextile, which
muft be added to the right afcenfion of the ftar, if it be pofited in the
occidental part of the heavens; but, if it be in an oriental pofition, then
fubtract the two-thirds of the equator: for example, fuppofe the right
afcenfion of the medium-cceli to be two hundred and twenty degrees,
which anfwers to twelve degrees twenty-feven minutes of Scorpio, and a
planet were in twenty-eight degrees of Sagittarius, havingeleven minutes
of north latitude, his declination will be twenty-three degrees twenty
minutes, which anfwers to twenty-three degrees of Sagittarius ; with this
I enter the tables of femidiurnal arches, under the latitude of the place,,
viz. fifty-two degrees, which I find to be three hours forty-fix minutes,
and, being converted into degrees and minutes of the equator, make fifty-
two degrees thirty minutes. Now two-thirds thereof is thirty-feven
degrees forty minutes j which, being fubtracted from two hundred and
fixty-feven degrees forty-nine minutes, the planet’s right afcenfion, leaves
two hundred and thirty degrees nine minutes for the right afcenfion of
the fextile of the planet j from whence the right afcenfion of the medium-
cceli being fubtracted, there will remain ten degrees nine minutes, the
true arch of direction to the fextile. The directions to a quartile or trine
are performed in a fimilar manner.
Another Way to direSl the Afcendant to a Sextile, Quartile, or Trine, Afpedi
of any Planet.
, If the afcendant is to be directed to the afpect of a planet above the
earth, divide the femidiurnal arch of the planet into three equal parts,
and add two of thofe parts to the oblique afcenfion of the planet, taken
under the pole of birth, and from that fubtract the oblique afcenfion of
the afcendant, and the remainder is the arch of direction to a fextile.
By
Digitized by Google Original from
MC\A/ V r t D V Dl ID I i r I ID P A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 477
By the fame operation the afcendant is directed to the quartile and trine
afpects ; only obferving to take four of thofe parts for a trine, and the
whole femidiurnal arch for a quartile. It is proper juft to remark, that
the afcendant and mid-heaven are never to be directed to zodiacal afpects,
but to thofe only in the world.
Another Way to dirthe .
Take one-third part of the femidiurnal arch of the planet from its
right afcenfion, and from the remainder fubtract the right afcenfion of
the mid-heaven, and the refidue is the true arch of direction to the fex-
tile afpect, as before. If the third part of the femidiurnal arch of the
planet be added to its right afcenfion, and from that film the right af­
cenfion of the mid-heaven be deducted, there will remain the true arch
of direction to a trine.
But it muft be carefully remembered, that, in all cafes where directions
are to be brought to the afpects of planets under the earth, we are to divide
the feminocturnal arch of the planet into three parts, and to work by
the right afcenfion-of the fourth houfe, inftead of that of the mid-heaven,
but in all other refpects the operation is the fame.
Another Way to direct the Afcendant to a Quartile .
Take the oblique afcenfion of the planet, under the pole of birth,
with latitude if any, and ter that add its femidiurnal or feminocturnal
arch, according as the planet may be pofited, either above or under the
earth; from this fum fubtract the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant,
and the remainder is the arch of direction to the quartile afpect. By a
proper attention to thefe fimple and ealy rules, the whole myftery and
difficulty of the art of directions, which has lb long embarrafted modern
aftrologers, will be entirely removed.
w to dire£i the Afcendant or Medium-cceto a ,
Sefquiquadrate, or B
i
q
u,
The fame operation is to be followed in thefe directions as are given
above for the textiles, quartiles, and trines, with this difference only,
that a femiquartile, being only half the quartile, and the quintile only a
fifth part, are to be fubtructed in that proportion from the femidiurnal or
f.minocturnal arches ; the fefquiquadrate is the femidiurnal or feminoc­
turnal arch, and half the lame added thereto; and the biquintile is a
quintile doubled, as appears fully and diftinctly by the tables of afpects,
which follow at the end of thefe rules for directions.
The
Original from
m c u i v n D i ^ m id i i r I i n n a d v
The true Method of dire51mg a Significatorto any Afpedl or Pr
dire51 or converfe.
If the fignificator and promittor happen both to be pofited near the
cufps of houfes, what hath been obferved in the rules for directing the
afcendant and mid-heaven may ferve here ; for it only requires to bring
them both to the cufps of the houfes to which they are near, and it will
form the afpect that is between the houfes. But in cafes where the fig­
nificator and proinittor are differently pofited, the following rules muft
be obferved.
Suppofe a fignificator to be pofited in the tenth houfe, and to be di­
rected to the fextile of a promittor in the twelfth or eighth houfe ; firft
take the difiance of the fignificator in right afcenfion from the tenth
houfe, which call the primary diftance; then take the diflance of the
promittor from the twelfth houfe, which referve ; next take the femi­
diurnal arch of the fignificator, and alfo of the promittor; add the two
arches together, and fay, by the rule of proportion. If two arches give
the diflance of the promittor from the twelfth houfe, what {hull the
femidiurnal arch of the fignificator give ? which when found, add it to
the primary diflance of the fignificator, and the fum will be the arch
of direction required. But it muflhere be obferved, that, if the fignifi­
cator had been placed beyond the cufp of the tenth houfe, or in the
ninth houfe, then the primary diflance muft be fubtracted from the fe-
condary, and the remainder will be the arch of direction. The fame
rule is to be followed for the quartile afpect, if the promittor be in the
afcendant; but, if the promittor be pofited either in the fecond or fixth
houfe, then the fame rule muft be'followed for the trine, always remem­
bering to take the feminocturnal arch inflead of the femidiurnal, when
- the direction is to or from a planet under the earth.
' Another Way.
If a fignificator be pofited within three degrees of the mid-heaven, take
his right afcenfion, and the right afcenfion alfo of the promittor’s body
or oppofition, together with his latitude; but, if the fignificator be with­
in three degrees of the afcendant, then take the oblique afcenfion both
of the fignificator and promittor, under the pole of the houfe, and fub-
tract the fignificator from the promittor, regarding his latitude if he hath
any, and the remainder is the arch of direction required; which, if right­
ly performed, will never be found to err.
It
Digitized by Google Original from
m c u j D i i m i r i i r d a r v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 479
It may here be remarked, that, if the fignificator and promittor be
upon or within three degrees of the cufp of any other houfe, the direc­
tion is the fame with the houfe, and may be directed under the pole of
that houfe, or by right afcenfion if upon the mid-heaven as before ;
but, if they are in the defcending part, then ufe the oppofite places. For
example : fuppofe the Sun were to be diredted to a fextile of Jupiter, the
Sun being on the cufp of the ninth houfe, in five degrees of Leo, and
Jupiter in eighteen degrees of Cancer, the pole of birth being forty-four
degrees. Now I take the oppofite fign and degree, becaufe the Sun and
Jupiter are both in the defcending part of the heavens ; the poles of the
ninth and third houfes are eighteen degrees, and the oblique afcenfion
of the Sun’s oppofite place is three hundred and fourteen degrees nearly;
from whence I fubtradt fixty degrees, and the remainder, which is two
hundred and fifty-four degrees, is the oblique afcenfion of theafcendant.
Now the oblique afcenfion of Jupiter’s oppofite place, under the pole of
eighteen degrees, is two hundred ninety-feven degrees ; from whence I
fubtradt the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant, viz. two hundred and
fifty-four degrees, and there remains the arch of direction required,
which is forty-three degrees; becaufe, by the motion of the primum
mobile, when the afcendant comes to the oppofite place of Jupiter, the
Sun at the fame time comes to his fextile.
Todirect a S
i
g
n
i
f
c
a
t
o
r
, being above three Degrees dijlant from the Cufp of
any Houfe.
Find the femidiurnal arch of the planet if above the earth, or the
feminodlurnal arch if below the earth, with his diftance from the pre­
ceding or fucceeding cufps of the houfes, either of which will anfwer
the purpofe ; then take the femidiurnal or feminodturnal arch of the pro­
mittor, as his pofition either above or below the earth {hall require ; for,
if the afpedt be above the earth, the femidiurnal arch muft invariably be
taken, but, if under the earth, the feminodturnal; and this may always
be readily known by the houfes themfelves; for the tenth houfe hath the
eighth and twelfth houfes in fextile, the firftand feventh in quartile, and
the fixth and fecond in trine ; and fo of all the reft, which is abfolutely
neceflary to be thoroughly underftood, to render thefe mundane afpefls
familiar and intelligible, and therefore I mention it again here. Having
afeertained the arches as above required, fay, by the rule of proportion.
If the femidiurnal or femino&urnal arch of the fignificator gives his
diftance from the cufp of the houfe, what (hall the femidiurnal or femi-
nofturnal arch of the promittor give ? which when found, call it the
fecondary diftance of the promittor from the cufp of the preceding or
No. 24. 6 A fuc-
Digitized by Gck sle
Original from
m e \m v n R k ' di i m ir i i c d a d v
a
if
in
n
fi-n
r
l-M
-
a
c
n
im
<
;
n
m
i
h
p
i
r
aaaaaa
/
/
t
!
i
t
i
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
P
)
i
f
in
n
n
'i
11
p
i
i
i
n
n
480 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
fucceeding houfe, according to which the fignificator and promittor were
faken from j if they are both taken from houfes which precede, or follow,
then in either cafe fubtradt the lefs from the greater, and the remainder
is the arch of diredtion fought. But, if the fignificator betaken from the
cufp of a preceding houfe, and the promittor from thecufp of a fucceed­
ing, or liceverfa, then add the two numbers together, and the fum will
be the arch of diredtion required, as before.
To direft a Significator own AJpefts.
This is only applicable to the Sun and Moon, for no other fignifica­
tor can be diredted this way ; but when either of thefe happen to be the
fignificator, and come to their own afpedts, they are productive of very
remarkable effects. The operation is quite eafy j for to bring up the di­
redtion of either the Sun or Moon to their proper Textile is no more than
finding the content of two third parts of their feuiidiurnal or feminoc-
turnal arches, according to their pofition either above or below the ho­
rizon, and that will be the true arch of diredtion to the fextile. For
the quartile, the content of the whole femidiurnal or feminodlurnal arch
is to be taken ; and, if a fifth part of the whole femidiurnal or feminoc-
turnal arch be added to the fextile, it will be the diredtion to the quintile
afpedt; and thus, by taking fuch a proportion of thefe arches as corre-
fponds with each refpedtive afpedt, may the true arches of diredtion of all
of them be found.
To direft aSignificator to Parallels in the World.
Parallels in the world fignify nothing more than the pofition of two
planets, when equally diftant from any one of the four cardinal houfes ;
for example, fuppofe one planet to be upon the cufp of the eleventh
houfe, and another upon the cufp of the ninth houfe, they are then in
exadt mundane parallel, as being both equally diffant from the mid­
heaven, or tenth houfe. Solikewife a planet upon thecufp of the ele­
venth houfe is in parallel with a planet upon thecufp of the third houfe,
being both equally diftant from the afeendant. Again, a planet, when
placed on the cufp of the eleventh houfe, is in parallel to a planet upon
the cufp of the fifth houfe, becaufe they are both equally diftant from
the tenth and fourth houfes j which rule will hold good with regard to
the other houfes. Now thefe laft-mentioned are parallels by their po­
fition ; but, if one planet ftrould be pofited upon the ninth houfe, and
another upon the twelfth, they are not in parallel till by the motion of
the primum mobile they are brought to that equal point of diftance.
Original from
M C \ A / v n o k ' Dl I P I i r I I D D A D V
Digitized by Go». gle
u
u
i
i
i
c
m
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
L
i
z
.
e
u
/
i
ill|j.//v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
i
d
u
u
u
u
s
l
.
u
i
y
/
c
M
_
i
_
t
;
b
b
_
u
i
»
t
;
-
«
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
c
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 481
that one fliall bejuft fo far paft the mid-heaven as the other wants to it,
and, when they are fo, they are in exadt parallel. And, further, if two
planets are '■'laced either in the eleventh or twelfth houfe, they will, by
the motion of the primum mobile, be brought to that equality of diftance
fo as to be in exadt parallel ; for, fuppoling them to be fituated one in
twelve degrees and another in fixteen degrees of the fame fign, when the
fourteenth degree comes to be upon the cufp of the mid-heaven, the
parallel is then made ; becaufe both planets are then juft two degrees
diftant from the mid-heaven. The fame rule is to be applied to all the
four angular houfes; but, becaufe diredtions to thefe parallels may be
fomewhat difficult to a learner, I fliall here give an example at large of
the eafieft and moft corredt method of taking them.
Find the declination of that planet which is neareft to the angle from
which it is taken, with latitude if he hath any ; then obferve what de­
gree of the ecliptic anfwers thereto, and take the femidiumal or feminoc-
turnal arch, according as the planet is fituated either above or below the
horizon. Ufe the fame operation with the other planet, which is fartheft
from the angle; and, having found the content of both their arches, add
them together j then find the diftance from the angle, with this precau­
tion, that, if it be from the afcendant, take the diftance by oblique afcen-
ficn ; if frotn the feventh houfe, by oblique defcenfion, or by the oblique
afcenfion of the oppofite point ; but, if the diftance be from the mid­
heaven, or the fourth houfe, it muft be taken by right afcenfion, and,
when found, call it the primary diftance; then take the difference of the
right or oblique afcenfion of the two planets, and by the rule of propor­
tion fay. If the two arches give that difference of right or oblique afcen­
fion, what (hall the femidiumal or ferninodiurnal arch of that planet
give which is neareft the angle P and the produdt fliall be the fecondary,
right, or oblique, afcenfion ; which, if the planets are fituated one before
the angle, and the other after it, fubtraft the primary diftance of that
which is neareft the angle from the fecondary diftance, and the remain-
deris the arch of direction required ; but, if both planets fhould be po-
fited fhort of the cufp of the houfe, then add the primary diftance to the
fecondary, and the fum will be the arch of direction, as before.
It may not be improper in this place to remark, that, when a fignifi-
cator comes to the parallel of Jupiter or Venus, in good places of the
figure, thefe parallels produce very powerful effects, and are nearly of
equal force with their fextiles and trines; fo that, if afignificator, par­
ticularly the giver of life, comes to the parallel of the lord of either the
fourth
Original from
MClik/ Dl IPI Ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by G o o g l e
4$2 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
fourth or the eighth houfe, it mod certainly produces death, unlefs fome
other dirediion, of an equally powerful but benefic nature, falls in with it
at nearly the fame point of time, and iropedes its malefic effedt. By the
fame rule, if a fignificator comes to the parallel of the lord of any other
houfe, being evilly placed in the figure, it produces vexation and mis­
fortune, according to the nature of the houfes they govern j and fo, on
the contrary, if the parallel be made in fortunate places of the figure, they
denote an increafe of profperity and happinefs, according to the nature of
the houfe that the promittor is lord of. Thefe parallels are always made
by the motion of theprimum mobile from eaft to weft.
Another Way of direftmg to Parallels in the World.
, If the fignificator and promittor are in parallel above the earth, take
their diftance from the right afcenfion of the medium coeli, which call
the primary diftance ; then by the rule of proportion fay, If the femi-
diurnal arch of the fignificator gives his diftance from the medium-cceli,
what fhall the femidiurnal arch of the promittor give ? which having
found, work by the fame rule before laid down for dire&ing the Sun a-
bove the earth in the zodiacal afpedts, and the rcfult will be the arch of
dire&ion required.
When the fignificator and promittor are both under the earth, their
diftance muft either be taken from the fourth houfe or from the horizon,
but the operation in all other refpedts isprecifely the fame as the foregoing;
but, if one planet be above the earth, and the other below, take the dif­
tance of the one from the mid-heaven, and of the other from the fourth
houfe, and work as before; or otherwife take the oppofite place of the
planet under the earth, in manner before fpecified. Great care muft
however always be taken, in bringing.up the diredtions, not to miftake
the femidiurnal for the feminodturnal arch, but in all cafes to take the
femidiurnal arch if the planet be above the earth, and the feminodturnal
when the planet is under the earth: for by thefe parallels in the world,
we conceive the fignificator to remain immoveable in the horary circle of
his pofition, becaufe, in a nativity, the virtue of the fignificator as well as
the promittor in the fame primum mobile is imprinted ; and thefe virtues
are brought to by its motion from eaft to weft.
To direft the Sun, being under the "Earth, to any Afpeft.
If the Sun be in the fpace of twilight, firft find the diredtion of the
Sun to the afpedt of the promittor, whether it be a fextile, quartile, or
2 trine.
Digitized by Google Original from
m h a / vn r v d i i m i r i i q d a d v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 4S3
trine, in manner already taught, which arch call the feigned arch j then
find what degree of the zodiac the Sun comes to at that time, by taking
his pole, and then his oblique afcenfion ; to this add the feigned arch
above-mentioned, and the fum will be the oblique afcenfion of the degree
of the zodiac to which the Sun comes on both fides. Then with the
Sun’s primary diftance from the horizon, find what parallel of twilight
he poflefles, and therein his fecondary diftance, to which the feigned di­
redtion ftiall come; and by the rule of proportion fay. If the feminodtur-
nal arch of the Sun give his fecondary diftance from the horofcope, what
ftiall the femidiurnal or feminodturnal arch of thepromittor give ? the
fourth number ftiall be the fecondary diftance of the promittor from the
cardinal or any other houfe of the genethliacal figure, from whence we
are to feek the proportional diftance, and thereby obtain the true arch of
direction required.
Todireft theSun,out of the Space of
Obtain the feigned place of the afpedt, as taught in the preceding rule,
and find what degree of the ecliptic the Sun comes to by this direction;
then fay. If the arch of obfeurity of the Sun gives his primary diftance
from the fourth houfe, what ftiall the obfeure arch of the ecliptical de­
gree give, which the Sun comes to by this diredtion ? the product will
be the fecondary diftance from the fourth houfe. Now, if the Sun be
pofited in the third or fourth houfes, ufe this diftance; but, if he be in
the fecond or fifth houfes, fubtradt from this diftance a third part of the
Sun’s feminodturnal arch, and the remainder is the Sun’s fecondary dif­
tance from the third or fifth houfes ; then fay, If the feminodturnal arch
of the Sun gives his fecondary diftance from the determinate houfe, what
diftance ftiall the feminodturnal arch of the promittor give from that
houfe alfo ? which when found, proceed as in the foregoing rules for
the arch of diredtion required.
Method of directinga Signifcator to all Afpecls converfe, that are made in
the IVorId.
Directions are eafily brought up to afpedts which are made converfe,
by confidering the promittor asfignificator ; for, if a fignificator be pofi­
ted in the eleventh houfe, and the promittor in the twelfth, the fextile
will fall in the tenth houfe; and to direct a fignificator from the ele­
venth houfe into the tenth is contrary to the fuccefiion of both houfes
and figns, wherefore the afpect is called converfe. Now the beft way
to manage thefe afpects is certainly to direct the promittor to the figni-
No. 24. 6 B ficator
Digitized by G ( X
Original from
m c u / v n o v Di i m i r i i b r a b v
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
ficator in al! cafes where the directions are converfe, which may be done
with the greateft exactnefs by the preceding rules, only obferving to take
the femidiurnal and feminocturnal arches of the promittor firft, inftead
of thofe of the fignificator, and perform the operation throughout as if
the promittor were fignificator. But remember that neither the afcen-
dant, mid-heaven, nor any other of the houfes, are ever to be directed
converfelyj for they have no motion whatever to any preceding planet
or afpect.
i .7 • < : . * •
How to equate the Arches of Direction, whereby to afcertain the Length of
Time in which the Events denoted by them will be in co>?iing to pafs.
The art of bringing up the directions of a nativity, from the difufe
which this fcience has for fome years paft fallen into, is a matter that has
puzzled mod of its prefent followers; and the method of equating thefe
directions when found, by a meafure that ftiall in all cafes correfpond to
truth and nature, has been the fubject of many controverfies and difputes
among modern authors; arifing, I conceive, from their ignorance of the
plain and genuine fyftem handed to us by the immortal Ptolomy, and
from a want of reflecting that the revolutions of all the heavenly bodies,
as well as the periods of all earthly events, are only reducible to one uni-
verfal ftandard-meafure of time, namely, the Sun’s geocentric motion in
the ecliptic. It is therefore furprifing that fo many inventions (hould
have arifen, and fo many errors in confequence adopted, in equating di­
rections ; fince it muft be evident to the mod unlettered mind, and a fact
beyond the reach of contradiction, that the fame rule which eftimates the
days, months, and years, of a man’s life, from the moment of his birth,
likewife eftimates the progreflive motion, in days, months, and years, of
every luminary within our cognizance, in the vaft extent of fpace] This
rule is nothing more than the Sun’s apparent progrefs through every de­
gree and minute of the ecliptic, meafured by the degrees of the equator;
to which unerring ftandard every matter that refers to any defcription or
portion of time muft be ultimately brought, or all our labour, and all
our accuracy, will prove abortive and premature.
According to the common adage, “ when the difeafe is known, the cure
is half performed;” and fo we may fay of the meafure of directions; for,
when the ftandard is known, the procefs is eafily accomplifhed, as follows.
When the true arch of direction is found, by any of the foregoing rules,
and is to be equated, take the right afcenfion of the Sun’s place at the time
Digitizedby Goi ole MEM1 V A D Y I Ir I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 4%
S
of birth, and add the arch of direction to the Sun’s right afcenfion ; with
this fum enter the tables of the right afcenfion, and find what degree and
minute of the ecliptic anfwers thereto; then take the Ephemeris for the
year of birth, and note how many days and hours the Sun will be, from
the time of birth, in coming to that degree and minute of the ecliptic;
and for every perfect day, which is twenty-four hours, account a year,
and for every two hours over and above the even days, a month, and fo
in the fame proportion for minutes and feconds of time, and the arch of
direction will be truly equated; as will be {hewn by repeated examples,
in equating the directions of the following nativities.
I flatter myfelf that the rules given in this fyftem of directions, if
carefully attended to, will be amply fufticient to familiarize any of my
readers in this important branch of the occult fciences, without the aid of
which, little or nothing can be done in the calculation of nativities.
For though it be admitted, that a ftudent may make great advances in
the knowledge of futurity, by acquiring an adequate, comprehenfion of
the nature and effects of the various configurations and familiarities of the
celeftial bodies, and of their particular influence both benefic and ma­
lefic upon the human race; and though we may by this means attain to
know that l'uch and fuch events will certainly come to pafs; yet even
this acquifition in the fcience muft be confidered incomplete, without
the ability of pointing out, by fome fixed and certain rule, the precife
time when thefie events lhall happen. This is not to be attained by the
methods ufed in the vulgar Aftrology, as already laid down in the former
part of this work, where the common Aftrology is treated of, but with
great rifle and uncertainty, and was therefore only introduced for the pur-
pofe of anfwering horary queftions, where correctnefs, in this particular,
is little attended to by any modern profeflbrs.
This grand acquifition is therefore not to be obtained by any other
mode, than that of bringing up the arch of direction of each refpective
fignificator in the native’s figure of birth, to the afpect which denotes
each refpective event; and this arch of direction, as I have before ob-
ferved, is nothing more than the track or circle in the heavens formed
by the fignificator in moving from that particular point in the heavens
where he is found at the birth; fo the precife point where he forms the
afpect with the promittor that indicates the event, which, upon his ar­
rival there, is to happen. It is confequently apparent, that if this track
or circle can be found, and its content in degrees and minutes accurately
taken, and reduced into common time according to the motion of the
Sun, which regulates all our accounts of time, it will fhew us at one
view.
Digitized by Google Original from
MH/ ll v n o k ' DIIQI i r I I D D A D V
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
l
u
z
e
u
/
i
n
i
|
j
;
/
/
w
w
v
v
.
i
i
d
u
n
u
ubL.ui
y
/d
t.
t.
t:
b
b
_
u
b
t:
-
w
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
ie
486 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
view, the exact time when the event, according to the common courfe of
nature, (hall infallibly come to pafs.
In this procefs confifts the whole myftery of afcertaining the period of
man’s life, which is thought fo wonderful a matter by fome, and confi-
dercd altogether impoffible by others ; and yet it is no more than a fimple
operation of nature, deduced from an intimate knowledge with fecond
caufes. For this is a rule that will never be found to fail, if our arith­
metic be true, that at the very time the principal fignificator in a nativity,
that is, the giver of life, (hall arrive at the anaretical point of the afpect
of the killing planet, the native (hall furely depart this life provided
no benefic rays at the fame time irradiate the place, or in any afpect con­
cur to impede the killing force, which may always be known from the
difpofition of the benefic planets in the nativity. If this affertion be
true, which has been proved by innumerable examples in all ages of the
world, and which I truft will be confirmed by the nativities following,
it is evident that we can, by the foregoing rules, bring up the directions
with fufficient accuracy to afccrtain the precife length of time in years,
months, and days, in which the fignificator of life will be in moving to
the anaretical or killing point; and juft fo long will be the life of that
native. Where then is the myftery or impoffibility of afcertaining the
period of human life, and with extraordinary precifion? But this accu­
racy wholly depends upon the true time of birth being obtained ; for a
failure here in the radical point will deftroy the whole calculation, and
nothing predicted therefrom can poffibly happen but by the effect of
chance.
But it is here neceffary to remark, that in fuch nativities as are vital,
and afford fufficient teftimonies of a ftrong and healthful conftitution,
one diredtion alone is feldom found to kill : for in fuch nativities there
is required a train of malevolent directions to concur to death j and the
interpofition of one fingle direction of the benefics, even if it be a quar-
tile or oppofition, irradiating the very anaretical point, will moft times
preferve life. But where feveral malevolent directions of the malefic
ftars concur together, without the aid or interference of the benevolent
planets, they never fail to deftroy life. And here it mu ft be obferved,
that in fuch trains of directions we are to diftinguifli between the killing
planet and that which is the caufer of the quality of death ; for one pla­
net doth not (hew both. The foremoft of the malefic train is the killing
place, and (hews the time of death; but the following directions, though
benevolent, (hew the quality of it. If this train falls all together, and
none follow, then obferve thofe which precede, though at a diftance,
and
Digitized by Google Original from
vn Pt' D
l IDIIr IIDDADV
u
u
M
i
d
m
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
e
u
/
i
i
L
L
p
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
v
v
.
i
id
u
n
u
u
^
l
.
u
i
y
/c
K
.e
t;b
b
_
u
b
t;
-«
-p
u
-y
u
u
y
it;
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 487
and benefic, for the quality of death 1 for, though the benevolent ftars
contribute to the prefervation of life, yet they frequently fpecify the dif-
eafe which is the caufe of death, as we have already abundantly fhewn.
And with thefe concur the configurating ftars, the quality of the ftars
and figns, and the terms in which the ruling planets happen to be pofited.
But in violent deaths the genethliacal pofitions of the luminaries are to
be obl'erved, and how the malefics aflfefcit them, and are alio connected by
directions in the quality of death.
Of S E C O N D A R Y D I R E C T I O N S . '
All the directions hitherto treated of are termed directions,
becaufe they are the firfl and molt important of any thing of the kind
in the doCtrine of nativities ; and without the aid of thefe, all aftrologi-
cal calculations would be vain and delufive, as mud appear obvious from
what has been already premifed. But fecondary directions are by no
means of fuch an extenfive confideration j nor of any great utility in the
fcience, that I have as yet been able to difeover, particularly if accuracy
and truth are to be preferred in thefe fpeculations. For, by the ufe of
the primary directions in the calculation of nativities, we are not only
enabled to judge of the quality and influence of the afpeCts, but can
likewife trace them to the precife time of their operation; whereas the
fecondary directions at belt only afford the artift matter for fuperficial en­
quiry and vague conjeCture. I lhall neverthelefs explain the nature and
ufe of them in this place, fince it is the plan of this work to comprehend
every praCtice hitherto introduced into the feiened of aftrology, with a
view to enable the reader to diftinguiih the ufeful and rational from the
inutile and redundant part of it.
By fecondary directions, then, we are to underftand thofe configurations
and familiarities of the planets which arife daily from the time of birth,
and are applied to the prediction of events that are to come to pafsin the
fame fuccefiion of years from the birth as correfpond with thofe days. For
example, allafpects of the ftars, both to the luminariesandcardinal houles,
that happen on the firftday after birth, are applied to the firft year ; thofe
of the fecond day after birth to the fecond year ; thofe of the third day
to the third year'; thofe of the fourth day to the fourth year; and fo on,
in progreflive rotation, as far as this fpeculation can extend.
In the management of thefe directions, we are principally toobferve what
configurations the Moon has to the other planets ; for, if fhe be joined
with benefic ftars, or irradiated by their good afpects, or even by the
No. 24. 6 C good
Digitized by Got gle Original from
M P l / l l v n c i c D I I D I 1r 1 I P P A P V
488 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
good afpe&s of the infortunes, it denotes a happy, healthful, and prof-
perous, year to the native, in nature and quality peculiar to the principal
fignificator in each configuration, and to the houfes and figns in which
they fall in the radical figure. But on the contrary, if the Moon be
joined to malevolent ftars, or irradiated by them, or in parallel declina­
tion of the infortunes, it forebodes, to thofe years pointed out by the
days in which thefe evil configurations happen, great affli6lions either
in mind, body, or eftate; and, if a primary direction (houid correfpond.
with them, of the fame malignant nature, a complication of temporal
misfortunes will moil probably enfue.
In the confideration of thefe directions, we are particularly to attend
to the critical days and climadterical years ; for at thofe times the good
or evil configurations of the planets are moil powerful in their opera­
tion. If upon either of thofe occafions the^Moon be found in quartile
oroppofition to the place in which flie was pofited at the time of birth,
and an evil primary direction of the fignificator of life correfpond there­
with, death is then at the door, or at that time very much to be appre­
hended, even in the ftrongeft conftitutions. And fo likewife, if the Sun
or Moon in the fecondary directions are afflicted by the malignant rays of
inaufpicious configurations with an evil primary direction, with which
both the revolution and tranfit agree, it is confidered an irrevocable indi­
cation of death to the native.
Thefe fecondary directions, I underftand, have always been in reputa­
tion among the Arabs and Egyptians, who, in common practice, prefer
this method of predicting from the.genethliacal figure to the more com­
plicated and laborious mode of calculation by the primary directions.
The former practice has doubtlefs the advantage in point of expedition;
for by the ufeof it in thofe countries, they will, upon the bare infpect-
tion of a nativity, give an account of the general and particular incidents
during the whole courfe of the native’s life ; and yet, by repeated trials
of it myfelf, I have found it in many inftances erroneous, and therefore
not to be adopted in theferious inveftigation of nativities, where accuracy
and truth are to be defired. It it is a doctrine much on a level with that
of horary queftions, and may be ufed to give a general idea of the native’s
figure of birth, and of his probable bent of fortune, where time or cir-
cumftances will not admit of particular calculations.
But, upon delivering judgement upon either fpecies of directions, whe­
ther prinary or fecondary, it is abfolutely neceflary to pay the greatelfc
attention to the nature and quality of the afpects we direct to, as well
thofe
Original from
M
C
\A
/ D
IID
I Ir IIDDADV
Digitized by Goi. gle
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
u
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
i
e
u
/
i
iL
ip
;//v
v
v
v
v
v
.iid
L
i
n
u
u
b
i
.
u
i
y
/
d
u
.
t
;
b
b
_
u
b
e
#
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
t
;
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 489
thofe in the world as thofe in the zodiac: for it often happens that a
zodiacal afpeCt may import much good, when at the fame point of time
a malignant mundane configuration may come up, of fo ftrong and pow­
erful a nature as to fruftrateall the beneficial effeCls portended by the
former. The want of attending to, or knowing, this, has frequently
confounded our modern pra&itioners j who, confiding in the benignant
tendency of fome extraordinary good afpefts in the zodiac, have promifed
an advance of fortune to the native, which has never come to pafs, becaufe
counter-afpe&s in the world, which have the ftrongeft and neareft rela­
tion to fublunary things, have confpired, at the fame inftant of time, to
fuperfede the beneficial effeCls of the zodiacal configurations; and which
would perhaps have been felt in an extraordinary degree of malignity,
were it not that the above-mentioned falutary aipeCts were oppofed to
them* / S y .
Hence it mull appear to every rational mind, that the ftri&eft caution
and the utmoll deliberation are neceflary, in forming our opinion upon the
dire&ions of a nativity ; for, if atlaft we err in this, all our labour is loft,
and the unfortunate enquirer is deluded with vain expectations of a happy
run of great good fortune, or terrified with the approach of fome dread­
ful cataftrophe, neither of which, by the nature of the ftars, was ever
intended to happen. That this want ofjudgement has of late years been
too commonly praclifed upon the public, cannot be denied, nor too fe-
verely reprobated. But Hill, let not the relentlefs unbeliever of Aftro-
logy raife his exalted creft too high on this occafionj nor infill, becaufe
thcfe errors have been common, that the fcience of prediction has no ex-
iftence in truth and nature; his unbelief mull clearly aril’
e from a want
of inclination to contemplate the curious efteCls of fecond caufes.
Brute creatures may perhaps enjoy the faculty of beholding vifible
things with a more penetrating eye than ourfelves j but Tpiritual objects
are as far out of their reach as though they had no being. Neareft,
therefore, to the brute creation, are thofe men, who fuffer themfelves to
be fo far governed by external objects, as to believe nothing but what
they fee, and feel, and can accommodate to their own lhallow imagina­
tions. Let fuch men doubt whether they have a foul in their body, be­
caufe their eyes never faw it i or that there are ftars in the firmament at
noon-day, becaufe the appear not; or that it is not air in which they
breathe, becaufe nothing appears to them but an infenfible vacuity.
Surely all that know they poflefs a foul mull of necefiiry believe the
rule and government of angels, which they fee not j and,.if from no
other grounds, they muft, I think, from that apparent analogy which
they
Digitized by Gooale Original from
M P W i / V f l D ^ Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
490 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
they cannot but perceive between the greater and the lefs world j for,
as the little world man confifts of an outward vifible body, and an in­
ward fpiritual foul, which gives life and motion to the organical frame,
fo pofieding all parts as to be wholly in all, and in each didinft part
wholly ; fo mud it be alfo in the great univerfe, the fenfible and mate­
rial part whereof .hath being and motion from thofe fpiritual powers
which dwell in, and wholly fill and aduate, i t : therefore the Adrologian
regards nature with the eyes of St. Paul, 2 Cor. iv. 18. he looks not a t
the things which are feen , but a t the things w hich are notfeen : f o r the
things which are feen are tem poral, but the things w hich are not Jeen are
eternal.
Having now completely laid down the rudiments of the Science of
.Aftrojogy, in as comprel\jnfive, plain, aqd intelligent, a manner as pof*
fible, I (hall immediately proceed to teach <the application thereof, in
calculating the following nativities. It is my wi(h to perform this talk
in fuch a manner as to enable the mod fuperficial reader to accompany
me through every minute procefs in the bulinefs, and to follow me in
bringing up every diredion to their proper afpects, as they (hall refpec-
tively occur in the genethliacal figures. If I can do this, I have no
doubt of foon convincing the mod obftinate unbeliever of the fcience,
that it has both utility and truth on its fide j and that the beings of rea-
fon, who bear the image of their beneficent Creator, are not wholly left
without the help of forefight and foreknowledge, in a very ample and
extraordinary degree, if they will but adopt the necelTary means of ac­
quiring it.
The nativities that follow fall immediately under my own obfervation
and knowledge, and I have chofen them in preference to any that have
been before publilhed, or to thofe of perfons not now living, becaufe I
would avoid putting it in the power of any perfon to fay, that our calcu­
lations are at all founded upon enquiries into the people’s way of life, of
their good or ill fortune, of their ficknefs or health, of the particular
incidents of their life pad, or of the external caufes of their death ; for,
if the rules that I have laid down will not enable us to accomplifh all
this from the fituation of the planets in the figure of birth, our fcience
is indeed a mere delufion, and its followers nothing better than jugglers
and impodors.
But, to make this enquiry eafy to my readers, and to fave them as much
as poftible the trouble of long and tedious calculations, I (hall in this
place introduce a fet of tables, which are fo contrived as to refolve every
quedion
Original from
MP1M V n D t ' D I I D I i r I I D D A D V
dby G o o g l e
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 4 9 i
• queftion that will arife in the management of nativities or horary quef-
tions; as well in refped to the places and pofitions of the planets and
their afpeds, as to the bringing up their proper diredions. I fhall
likewife add a fhort explanation of each diftind fet of Tables, and
reduce them to pradice, in calculating the following nativities, in fuch
a manner as to make their ufe eafy and familiar; hoping by this means
to remove, if poffible, that fudden impreffion of difficulty and embar-
raffment, which is felt by mod readers on the firft view of mathematical
Tables. I am perfuaded no difficulty whatever will attend the acqui-
fition of a competent knowledge of thefe, if a proper attention be paid
to them ; without which, little progrefs can be expeded. The moft
accompliffied artift of us all could never yet beftow the gift of infpira-
tio n ; and therefore, without fuitable endeavours, let none attempt the
intricate paths of fcience.
The Tables I ((hall introduce in this place, are thofe for finding the
femidiurual and feminodurnal Arches ; Tables of T w ilight; of M un­
dane Afpeds ; of Right and Oblique Afcenfions ; of Declination, and
Afcenfional Differences ; with fome others, calculated to make the ufe of
the above more comprehenfive and univerfal.
O f the T A B L E S of S E M I D I U R N A L and S E M I ­
N O C T U R N A L A R C H E S .
After what has been premifed in the foregoing Treatife on Diredions,
the neceffity of readily finding the femidiurnal and feminodurnal Arches
mull become obvious. I have therefore calculated a Table of them to
every degree of the Ecliptic for the latitude of London* which, being
moft wanted, will of courfe fave the practitioner fome trouble. Under
the different latitudes in the other Tables, are fpecified the femidiurnal
arches of all the northern figns, proper to thofe latitudes; as Aries,
Taurus, and Gemini, at the top of the Table ; and Cancer, Leo, and
Virgo, at the bottom of the Table. But, to find the feminodurnal
arches proper thereto, it only requires to fubtrad the femidiurnal arch
from twelve hours, and the remainder will be the feminodurnal arch
fought. So likewife the feminodurnal arches for all the l'outhern figns
are placed under the different latitudes in the Tables, having Libra,
Scorpio, and Sagittarius, at the top of the colum ns; and Capricorn,
Aquaries, and Piles, at the bottom ; and, to obtain the femidiurnal arches
correfponding with them, add the amount of the feminodurnal arch to
twelve hours, and the fum will be the femidiurnal arch required; many
examples of which will be fhewn hereafter.
No. 25. 6 D But,
Original from
MEUkf v n c f c ' Dl I P l i r I I D P
Digitized by Go*, gle
492 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
But, (hould the fcmidiurnal or femino&urnal arches be required for
any latitude not fpecified in the Tables, they may be found th u s: Firft,
find the declination of the planet under the pole of birth ; and, if the
declination falls in any of the fix northern figns, add the difference of
Afcenfion to ninety degrees, and the fum will be the femidiurnal arch, in
degrees and minutes ; if the afcenfional difference be fubtraded from
ninety degrees, the remainder will be the femidiurnal arch. But, if the
declination fhould fall in either of the fix fouthern figns, then fubtrad
the difference of afcenfion from ninety degrees, for the femidiurnal arch ;
and add the afcenfional difference to ninety degrees, for the femino6tur-
nal arch. If the arches thus found are divided by fix, they will give
the horary times, or true length of the planetary hours; and, if divided
by three, they will give the true diftance of one houfe, by which method
the true divifion of all the houfes may be obtained, according to the
rules of Ptolomy j two of which parts make a Textile, as appears more
obvioufly by the Table of Mundane Afpetts, wherein are fpecified all the
afpedts that are made in the world.
O f the T A B L E S of T W I L I G H T .
The ufe of thefe Tables, in bringing up the arches of dirediions, hath
been already mentioned ; it will therefore be fufficient in this place to
inform the reader how to make ufe of them. The firft column on the
left hand contains the parallels of Twilight ; and the body of the Tables
(hews the diftance the Sun muft be from the eaftern or weftern angles, that
is, from the afeendant or feventh houfe, to be in thofe parallels; therefore,
whenever thefe Tables are ufed for any calculations, the following me­
thod muft be adopted : Take the oblique afcenfion of the afeendant
under the pole of birth, from whence fubtradl the oblique afcenfion of
the Sun, and the remainder will be its primary diftance, which is to be
fought in the Tables as near as poflible to that degree which the Sun is
in; which being found, look in the column of Parallels of Twilight,
and fee what parallel correfponds with it, for under that parallel the
arch of Twilight muft be taken; examples of which will hereafter be
frequently given.
Of the TABLES of MUNDANE ASPECTS.
The firft column of thefe Tables contains the femidiurnal and femi-
nodturnal arches, from three to nine hours, calculated to every fix mi­
nutes. In the next column, and oppofite to thefe arches, in a diredl
line, is the fpace of the houfe that the femidiurnal or feminodturnal
arches
Digitized by Go».'file Original from
M C U/ Dl IB I Ir I I B B A B V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 493
arches refpe&ively give; and in the fucceeding columns are arranged all
the mundane afpects anfwering thereto, truly calculated to the very de­
gree and minute, which are fometimes twice as much as at others; and
the reafon is, becaufe the femidiurnal and feminodturnal arches vary in
their content to full that amount.
Of the T A B L E S of R I G H T A S C E N S I O N S .
To find the right afcenfion of a ftar, the longitude muft be given,
with which enter the left hand column of the table; and under the'fign
and latitude at the top of the columns, in the angle of meeting, is the
right afcenfion required. For example : Suppofe a planet to be pofited in
ten degrees of Aries, and to have two degrees north latitude ; enter the
tables of right afcenfion with ten degrees of Aries, in the left-hand
column, and in the angle of meeting, under two degrees of north lati­
tude, will befound the right afcenfion thereof, viz. eight degrees twenty-
three minutes.
Of the T A B L E S of D E C L I N A T I O N .
To find the declination of a planet, the longitude muft be given, with
which enter the table of declinations on the left hand ; and in the column
of longitude, againft the degree of longitude, is the declination fought. If
the ftar hath latitude, either north or fouth, enter the tables under the
latitude, as the titles dire<ft, always remembering that, if the ftar be in
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, or Sagittarius, the degrees of longi­
tude to the left hand, beginning at the top of the tables, are to be
taken ; but, if the ftar be in Capricorn, Aquaries, Pifces, Aries, Taurus,
or Cancer, then the degrees of longitude to the right hand, beginning
at the foot of the table, muft be retorted to. Example : Suppofe a ftar
in ten degrees of Virgo, with one degree twenty-feven minutes north
latitude; I enter the table of declinations, finding Virgo in the head
of the table; and againft ten degrees under one degree of latitude I
find eight degrees forty-feven minutes, and againft ten degrees under
two degrees of latitude I find nine degrees forty-two-minutes ; the dif­
ference is fifty-five minutes. Then, for the part proportional agreeing to
the odd minutes of latitude, I fay. If fixty give fifty-five, what fball
twenty-feven give ? It gives twenty-five; which, added to eight degrees
forty-feven minutes, leaves the declination of the point fought, nine de­
grees twelve minutes. But, if the ftar had been in twenty degrees of
Aries, I muft have entered at the foot of the table; and, having the
fame latitude, the fame declination would emerge.
O f
Original from
m h a i v n c k ' D i i m 1r i i d d a d v
u
u
i
n
c
m
i,
u
u
u
y
l
e
-
u
i
y
l
u
z
e
u
/
i
n
i|j.//v
v
v
v
v
v
.i
id
u
nu
ubL.ui
y
/d
u
_
tib
b
_
u
b
e
-w
-|ju
-y
u
u
y
it:
494 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Of the T A B L E S of the A S C E N S I O N A L D I F F E ­
R E N C E S of the P L A N E T S .
The afcenfional difference is a certain arch of diftance, between the
right and oblique afcenfions of any ftar or planet, in any degree of the
Ecliptic; and, to find it by the following Tables of Differences, obferve
the following rules. Enter with the degrees of declination on the left
hand of the Table, and under the circle of pofition in the head, in the
common angle of meeting, with equation, will be found the afcenlional
difference required. Example : Suppofe a planet to have ten degrees of
declination, and his circle of pofition be fifty-one degrees forty-two mi­
nutes ; I enter with ten degrees on the left hand under the circle of fifty-
one degrees, and there I find twelve degrees thirty-five minutes ; but,
having forty-two minutes more, I take the part proportional between
fifty-one degrees and fifty-two degrees, viz.
Declination ten degrees latitude
Difference
deg. deg. min
5 1 12 35
52 13 3
O 28
Then I fay, by the rule of proportion, If fixty give twenty-eight, what
lhall forty-two, the odd minutes of the circle of pofition, give ? It gives
twenty nearly; which, added to twelve degrees thirty-five minutes, gives
the true afcenfional difference, twelve degrees fifty-five minutes of the
point fought.
Having obtained the afcenfional difference, the ufe of it, in the art of
dire&ions, is as follows : Firft, if the declination be north, fubtraft
the afcenfional difference from the right afcenfion, and the remainder
will be the oblique alcenfion ; but, if you add it to the right afcenfion,
the fum will be the oblique defcenfion. Secondly, when the declina­
tion is fouth, add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and the
fum will be the oblique afcenfion; but, if you fubtraft it from the right
afcenfion, the remainder will be the oblique defcenfion. And note,
that the afcenfional difference is only of fervice when the planet or ftar
hath latitude.
O f
O
riginal from
m c i a / d i i p i i r i i d d a d v
Digitized by Go*,'gle
u
u
i
i
let111,
v
ju
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
:
e
u
/
i
il
l
(
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
id
u
iil
i
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/c
n
-
L
e
i
i
_
u
b
t
;
-
f
f
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
t
;
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 49!
Of the T A B L E S of O B L I Q U E A S C E N S I O N S for
the L A T I T U D E of L O N D O N .
Enter thefe tables with the degrees of longitude in the left-hand co­
lumn ; and in the common area, under the (ign in the top of the column,
is the true oblique afcenfion fought. For example, fuppofe the liar to
be in ten degrees of Aries, and the latitude of birth fifty-one degrees
thirty-two minutes; look for ten degrees in the fide column under Aries
in the head, and the oblique afcenfion will be four degrees ten minutes
of the point fought.
To find the oblique defcenfions by thefe tables, obferve the following
rule: take the oppofite fign and degree, and, if it fall in any of the fix
northern figns, add one hundred and eighty degrees to the oblique afcen­
fion found, and the fum will be the oblique defeenfion of the point fought;
but in the fix fouthern figns fubtra&ion muft be made, and the ob­
lique defeenfion remains. Example : in the latitude of fifty-one de­
grees thirty-two minutes, I would know the oblique defeenfion of ten
degrees of Libra. Now I take the oppofite point Aries, which is nor­
thern, and add thereto one hundred and eighty degrees, as follows:
deg. min;
Oblique afcenfionof ten degrees of Aries is 4 10
Add 180 o
184 10
Thus the oblique defeenfion of ten degrees of Libra is one hundred
and eighty-four degrees ten minutes ; but, for the oblique defeenfion of
ten degrees of Aries, I take the oblique afcenfion of the oppofite point
Libra, which is fouthern, and fubtratl one hundred and eighty degrees
from it, as follows :
deg. min.
Oblique afcenfionof ten degrees of Libra is 194 12
Subtract 180 o
14 12
Thus the oblique defeenfion of ten degrees of Aries is fourteen de­
grees twelve minutes ; and the fame rule will hold good in all fimilar
No. 25. 6 E . operations
Digitized by Google O
riginal from
m c w u v n e t ' D i i m ir i i r r a d v
u
u
11
id
111
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
m
^
e
u
/
mu_|j.//vvvvvv
.iic
iu
n
u
u
b
t
.
u
i
y
/d
u
u
e
b
b
_
u
b
t
:
-
w
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
ie
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
operations for the latitude of London. I fhall likewife give a praxis for
finding the oblique afeenfions and defcenfions of every other latitude, by
help of the aforementioned 'Tables o f D ifferences.
It would be needlefs to enter into any further explanation, or to adduce
other examples in this place, to fhew the nature and ufe of the following
fet of tables, fince we fhall hereafter have frequent occafion to refer to
them in calculating and bringing up the directions of the following
Nativities, which will at once prove the facility and correctnefs with
which any calculations may be found by them, and initiate the young
praftitioner into a more intimate knowledge of them, without labour or
embarralfment. What I have already premifed on the fubject, has been
merely to demonllrate their general expediency, and to remove thofe fug-
geftions of difficulty and difguft, which are too frequently felt by
common readers upon the firft fight of a collection of tables, from an
ill-founded apprehenfion that they (hall never be able to underftand
them ; and which confequently is apt to give a fatal blqyv to the further
progrefs of the fludent. Now the fame objections mignt be made with
equal propriety to the ufe of the Trader’s Sure Guide, and the Ready
Reckoner, fince both of them confift of nothing but tables, calculated
to fhew the value of any quantity of goods at any given price, and are
now univerfally made ufe of by perfons wholly unacquainted with the
theory of figures. If, therefore, thefe books can be ufed with fo
much advantage for the above-mentioned purpofes, by perfons utterly
incapable of performing the moft fimple rules in addition or multipli­
cation, why may not the following tables be reforted to with fimilar
eal'c, for folvingany queftions upon the fubjeCt before us ? the anfwer is
obvious, and the utility of the plan unexceptionable.
A T A B L E
Digitized by
*Google Original from
MCI/!/ V f l D k ' Dl ID I Ir I ID D A D V
4 9 7
A T A B L E of Semidiurnal and 1
Semino&urnal A R C H E S .
Pole of 44 degrees. Pole of 47 deg. | Pole oi 50 degrees.
Sefnid n Semid. nr n
1
Semid. «r
1 ... ...
n
Semin . ^ m * Semin. "i * j&W/ff. W
l ‘ *
deg. h. m. h«m- h h. m. h.m. h.m.
1
I h* r o . h.m. h.m.
o 6 0 6 47 7 24 6 0 6 5 17 34 6 0 1
6 56 7 44 30
1 6 2 6 48 7 25 6 3 6 53 7 35 ! 6 2 6 587 45 29
2 6 4 6 5° 7 26 6 5 6 55 7 3 6 6 4 0 59,7 47 28
7 6 6 '6 51 7 27 6 7 6 57 7 37 6 6 7 17 4»
2l
4 6 8 6 52 7 28 6 9 6 59 7 38 6 8 7 3 7 49 26
5 6 9 6 54 7 29 6 10 7 °j7 39 6 9 7 5 7 5° 25
6 6 11 6 55 7 3 ° 6 12 7 2 7 40 6 11 7 7 7 5 1 24
7 6 *3 6 56 7 3 1 6 J4 7 4 7 4 * 6 J3 7 9 7 52 23
8 6 H 6 58,7 32 6 *5 7 5 7 42 6 15 7 10 7 53 22
o 6 15 6 597 33 6 J7 7 7 7 43 6 *7 7 12 7 54 21
IO 6 16 7 °,7 33 6 *9 7 8 7 43 6 19 7 14
7 S£
20
u 6 18 7 27 33 6 20 17 9 7 44 6 21 7 15 7 56 19
4
\
12 6 20 7 3 7 34 6 22 ,7 7 45; 6 23 7 17
7
18
n 6 21 7 4 7 34 6 24 ,7 12 7 46 6 25 7 19
7 5e
l 7
/
j
14 6 23 7 6 7 35 6 25 7 *3 7 46 6 26 7 20 7 58 16
15 6 24 7 7 7 35 6 27 7 7 47' 6 28 7 227 59 *5
16 6 25 7 8 7 36 6 29 7 o 7 4oi
6 3° 7 248 0 14
17 6 27 7 ro 7 36' 6 3° 7 18 7 48. 6 32 :7 25,8 0 13
6 29 7 11 7 37i 6 32 7 79 7 49 6 34 7 275 1 12
19 6 3° 7 12 7 37 6 33 7 20 7 49 6 3 6 7 28 8 2 11
20 6 32 7 33 7 38 6 34 7 22 7 49 6 38 7 3° 8 2 10
21 6 33 7 14 7 38 6 36 7 23 7 5° 6 40 7 3 18 31 9
O
22 6 34 7 *5 7 38 6 S8 7 24 7 5° 6 4 2 7 33 8 3 : 8
23 6 3 6 7 *7 7 38 6 39 7 26 7 5° 6 43 7 34 8 4; 7
/
24 6 38 7 18 7 38' 6 40 7 27 7 5 1 6 45 7 36 5 4 6
25. 6 39 7 19 7 39 6 43 7 2b 7 5 ' 6 47 7 37 8 4 5
26 6 40 7 20 7 39 6 44 7 29 7 5 1 6 49 7 3 » 8 4 4
27 6 42 7 21 7 39 6 46 7 3° 7 5 1 6 5 1 7 4C8 *5 3
28 6 43 7 22 7 39 6 48 7 3 17 5 1 6 53 i7 4 ' 8 5 2
29 6 45 7 2.
7 39 6 49 7 33 7 5 * 6 54 1
7 43 8 5 1
30 6 47 ,7 24 7 39 6 5 1 7 34 7 5 1 6 56 1
.1
7 44 8 5 0
Semid. V
R
i
1 SI 23 Semid,. m a os !
i
Sm/V. »
c
z
I
a sz deg.
Semin, x 1 ~ >f jjSfw/w. x
1
iSemin. x X
T kf 1
498 A N . ' ' I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T A B L E of Semidiurnal and Semino&urnal A R C H E S ,
Pole of 51 degrees. Pole of 52 degrees. Pole of 53 degrees.
Scmid. 8 n Semid. n Semid. D
L
Semin. ■
& "I X Semin. <
£
: X Semin., "I X
deg. h. m. h.m. h.m. h. m. h.m. h. h. m. h.m. h.m.
O 6 0 6
CO
7 48 « 0 7 0 7 52 6 0 . 7 37 57 3°
I
.
6 2 7 0 7 49 6 2 7 2 7 54 6 , 2 7 5 7 58 29
2 6 4 7 27 5M 6 4 7 4 7 55 , 6 4 7 7 8 0 28
3 6 6 7 4 7 52 6 6 7 6 7 56 6 6 7 9 8 1 27
4 6 8 7 6 7 53 6 8 7 8 7 58 6 8 7 11 8 2 26
5 6 I O 7 8 7 55 6 10 7 10 7 59 6 10 7^3 8 4 25
6 6 I2 7 9 7 56 6 12 7 12 8 0 6 12 7 »5 8 6| 24
7 6 14 7 I17 57 6 H 7 14 8 1 6 iS 7 J7 8 7l 23
8 6 l6 7 13 7 58 6 16 7 16 8 3 6 l 7 7 18 8 8 22
9 6 18 7 15 7 59 6 18 7 *7 8 4' 6 19 7 20 8 9 21
IO 6 20 7 »7 8 0 6 20 7 19 8 5
.' 6 21 7 22 8 10 20
11 6 22 7 18 8 1 6 22 7 21 8 6 6 23 7 24 8 11 19
12 6 24 7 23 8 2 6 24 7 23 8 7' 6 25 7 26 8 12 18
*3 6 26 7 22 8 3 6 26 7 25 8 7 6 27 7 28 8 13 l 7
14 6 28 7 23 8 3 l 6 28 7 27 8 8 6 3° 7 3° 8 14 16
: *5 6 29 7 25 8 4 6 3° 7 28 8 9 6 32 7 32 8 15 15
16 6 31 7 27 8 5 6 32 7 3° 8 10 6 34 7 34 8 16 14
*7 6 35 7 28 8 5 6 34 7 32 8 11 6 36 7 35 8 17 13
18 6 37 7 3° 8 6 6
3o 7 34 8 11 6 38 7 371
8 17 12
*9 6
/ 39 7 32 8 7 6 38 7 35 8 12 6 40 7 39 8 18 11
i-
: 20 6 41 7 33 8 7 6 4° 7 37 8 12 6 42 '7 41 3 19 10
21 6 43 7 35 8 8 6 42 7 39 8 13 6 44 7 43 8 »9 9
22 6 45 7 37 8 8 6 44 7 40 8 *3 6 46 7 44 8 20 8
23 6 47 7 38 8
8 I
6 46 7 42 8 J3 6 48 7 46 8 20 7
24 6 49 7 39 8 9 6 48 7 43 8 >4 6 5° 7 48 8 20 6
2 5 6 5i 7 41 8 9 6 5° 7 45 8 14 6 S 2 7 5C8 21 5
26 6 53 7 42 8 9 6 52 7 4 7
8 J4 6 54 7 5i 8 21 4
27 6 55 7 43 8 10 6 54 7 48 8 *5l 6 57 7 52 8 21 3
28 6 56 7 45 3 10 6 56 7 5° 8 15 6 59 7 54 8 22 2
29 6 57 <7 46 8 10 6 58 7 518 * 5 7 1 7 55 8 22 1
3° 6 58 7 48 8 10!
i 7
0 7 51 8 15
7
3 7 57 8 22 0
Semid. a 2
2
5 Semid. m
1
a S3 S r t w / V . a deg.
Semin. Semin. X :| Semin., X
P o l e o f 5 4 d e g r e e s . P o l e o f 5 5 d e g . P o l e o f 5 6 d e g r e e s .
S em id. nr n Sem id. n
r n Sem id. n
r b n
Sem in. * n x Sem in . *
0
= "
1 * Sem in. ^ "
i X
d e g . h
. m. h
.m.h»
m
. h
. m. h
.
.
m
>h
.
m
. h
. m. h
.
m
.h
.
m
.
O 6 0 7 5 8 2 6 0 7 7 8 5 6 0 7 98 1 2 3
°
1 6
' 2 7 7 8 3 6 2 7 8 8 7 6 2 7 1 1 8 1 4 2 9
2 6 5 7 9 8 5 6 5 7 I O 8 9 6 5 7 14 8 J5 2 8
7 6 7 7 1 1 8 6 6 7 7
1 2 8 1 0 6 7 7 1 6 8 1 7
2 Z
o
4 6 9 7 J
38
7 6 9 7 14 8 1 2 6 9 7 1 8 8 1 9 2 6
5 6 1 1 7 *5 8 9 6 1 2 7 1 7 8 1 3 6 1 2 7 2 0 8 2 0 2 5
6 6 *3 7 *7 8 I O 6 h 7 19 8 15 6 h 7 2 2 8 2 2 2 4
7 6 1 5 7 J
98 1 1 6 1 6 7 2 1 8 16 6 1 6 7 25 8 2 3 2 3
8 6 1 7 7 2 2 8 13 6 1 8 7 2 3 8 17 6 19 7 27 8 2 5 2 2
9 6 19 7 2 4 8 14 6 2 0 7 2 5
8 1 8 6 21 7 2 9 0 2 6 2 1
I O 6 2 2 7 2 6 8
1 5
6 2 2 7 2 7 8 1 9 6 23 7 3 2 8 2 7 • 2 0
1 1 6 24 7 2 8 8 1 6 6 25 7 2 9 8 2 0 6 2 6 7 3 4 8 2 9 19
1 2 6 2 6 7 3°
8
>7 6 2 7 7 3 1
8 2 1 6 2 8 7 3 6 8 3 0 l 8
1 3 6 2 8 7 3 2 8 1 8 6 2 9 7 33 8 2 2 6 30 7 39 8 3 , 17
h 6 3 1 7 3 3 8 >9 6 32 7 35 8 2 3 6
33 7 4 1 8 3 2 1 6
15 6 33 7 35 8 2 0 6 34 7 37 8 2 4 6
35 7 43 8 33 15
1 6 6 35 7 3 7 8 2 1 6 3 6 7 39 8 2 5 6 37 7 45 8 34 14
17 6 37 7 3 9 8 2 2 6 3 9 7 4 1
8 2 6 6 3 9 7 4 8
0 3 5
1 3
1 8 6 3 9 7 4 1 8 23 6 41 7 43 8 2 7 6 41 7 5 °
8 3 6 1 2
19 6 41 7 43 8 2 4 6 43 7 45 8 2 8 6
43 7 5 2 8 37 1 1
2 0 6 4 4 7 45 8 2 5 6 4 6 7 47 8 2 9 6 4 $ 7 5 4 » 37 2 0
2 1 6 4 6 7 47 8 2 5 6 4 8 7 49 8 3 0 6 4 8 7
5 o i« 3 «
9
2 2 6 4 8 7 49 8 2 5
6 50 7 5 1 s 3 0 6 5° 7 5 8 ' $ 3 8 8
2 3 6 5° 7 5 °
8 2 6 6 52 7
5 3 8 3 0 6 5 2 7 59 8 39
/*\
7
2 4 6 5 2 7 5 2 8 2 6 6 54 7 54 3 3 1 , 6
55
8 1 8 39 6
2 5 6 5 4 7 54 8 2 6 6 56 7 56
0 3 ‘ i
6 57
8 3 8 39 5
2 6 6 57 7 55 8 27 6 5
9 7 58 8 3 2 6 59 8 5 Is 4 ° 4
2 7 6 5 9 7 57 8 2 7 7 1 8 o j 8 3 2 7 2 8 7 1 8 4 0 3
2 8 7 1 7 59 8
27 7 3 8 2 8 3 3 : 7 4 8 88 4 0 2
2 9 7 3 8 0 8 2 7
7
6 8 4 8 34 7 6 8 1 0 8 4 1 1
3° 7 5
8 2 8 2 7
7 7 8
5 8 34 7 9 8 1 2 8 4 1 O
Sem id. *
R a 2
3 \ Semid,•m a 2
5 |
Semid,,n
a a 2
5 d e g .
Sem in, x y ? Semin . X -# > f I
~
|
Sem in, x
No. 25. 6 F
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
I
Digitized by
B E,
Shewing the Semidiurnal Arch to every degree of the Ecliptic.
Calculated for the Latitude of 51 degrees 32 minutes.
deg. h.m.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
I
9
10
II
12
*3
*4
*5
16
*7
18
*9
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
3°
*r
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
|6
6
6
6
1
6
6
!6
6
6
6
6
h.m.
°|6
2i7
4;7
6!7
8.7
10.7
12 7
>4 7
>57
i8'7
207
22 7
39
1
3
5
7
9
11
r3
158
178
208
24
2ol7
z8i
7
3°|7
3*7
34|7
367
38.7
407
42|7
4 1 7
7 26
h.m.
ss
h.m.
28:8
308
33|8
331
8
368
37i8
38
39
40
41 8
46 7 42 8
48 7 43 8
458
468
J 47 8
56 7 488
50
52
541
5
59|7
498
50 8
31.8
52I8
53|8
34;8
558
56.8
37|8
5918
08
118
28
23I8 3;8
8
8
8
9
9
10
10
11
11
12
12
J3
*3
13
13
12
a
h.m.
7 5o 6 5 # ol
.7 496 585
7 47 6 565
1217
n | 7
" 7
10,7
I0|7
9 , 7
48
48
58
68
68
78
78
8
8
8
8
7
7
7
7
17
7
7
5 9 ,
5 7 ,
5 6 7
33
54|
53
52l
51
h.m.
466 54I
5
456 52!5
436 5° _
426 48 5
41 6 46 5
406 445
9 b 3 9 6 42 3
8.7 386 4°$
8|7 37,6 385
7|7 36,6 365
35
33
3 1
3°.
2816
266
236
2C 6
176
156
1^6
11 6
96
? 6
- I 6
596
34j
3 2
1
3°|
28 5
26 5
245
22 5
20
h.m.
384
564
4 4 !
4 2
40!
3 6
3 4
3 2 !4
"i
h.m.
4
3 9 . 4
5 7 . 4
h.m.
10
S
|3
5 5
5 3
5 2
5 ?
5 4
52
5 °l
48
46)4 4g|4
46
4 5
4 3
38k
185
* 6 5
14 5
125
i o 5
85
6 5
4 5
2,5
05
3 °
28
26
24
22
20/
l8 4
164
41
39
3 7 ,
36 3
3 4 )
32
3° |
29
27
2 5
23
21
1414
124
io|4
84
64
44
24
i |4
20
i8 |3
153
*33
123
11 3
103
h.m.
58
57
56
55(3
54
54
53
53
52
5 *
5 *
50
5°I
47
47
47,
484
2;3
*'3
°|3
59|3
48
48
4 9 |
49
5°l
5°|
5 *
5 * 4
5 2
53
3
1|3
3
3
53
54
54]
55,
56 4
5 7
h.m.
10:
11
12
5
15
5
* 3 5
165
185
20
2!
23)5
25
27
h.m.
29
3°
32’
3i\
36|5
37
39
4 4 *
584 43|5 4Q
J
|
59|4
49,4
, 4914
*6|3 48,4
484
484
474
474
474
O
!
1
2
3
41'
5
10
4
4
4
|4
4
(4
45,
4^5
84
52
57
59(
1
1
21
4
61
8
101
12
*4
161
18
20
22
24
26
28
3°
32
3i
$
421
44
48(5 461
5° 48
5°
4
Is
01
Google Original from
mcui vrtois d i ini ir iirb abv
B E,
Shewing the Seminodurnal Arch to every degree of the Ecliptic.
Calculated for the Latitude of 51 degree^ 32 minutps.
deg.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
*3
H
J5
16
l l
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
3 °
h.m.
6
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
S8 4
564
54
52
5°
484
464
444
424
404
38 4
364
34;4
32:4
304
284
264
h.m. h.m.
59
57
55
53 4
51
49
47
45.4
43J3
4°i3
sb a m
h. m.
83
3
5
43
3*3
1 3
3
59
58 3
2 4
22
2 0
184
16
14
37
34
32i
30
29
273
253
57 3
12
10
8
6
4
2
1
2 4
23
22
21
2 0
*
9 .
183
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4 10
3
’
3
3
'3
*5
*4
*3
11
56,3
563
553
543
543
53 3
53 3
523
52
51
51
50
5°
49
49 4
484
48
47
47|4
47
47
48
48
49
49
5°
5 °
51
51
52,
52
53
53
54
54
5I'4
564
564
574
5«;4
h.m.
4
4
4
4
4
4
14
4
4
:4
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
185
19
20
21
22
1C
12
13
H
*5
17
59
0
1
3
4
5
6
7
8
23
24
25
2 7
2 9
3°
32
34
37
405
435
45|5
475
495
5r5
53 5
h.m.
1
2
4
6
8
10
12
H
16
18
2 0
22
24 6
26
28
55
57
59
1
3° 6
22 6
34 &
36 6
5 38 6
40 6
42 6
44 6
466
486
506
52 6
54 6
56 6
58 6
h.tn.
6
7
7
7
87
10
12
14
167
187
20
22
24
26
3°
32
36 7
40
42
44
h.m. h.m
.
21 8
238
28 7 24 8
26 8
288
7 3° 8
318
38)7 33 8
35 8
37 8
. . 39 8
46 7 40 8 11
487 42 8 11
507 448 12
527 45 8 12
54,7 478 12
56|7 48 8 13
587 498 13
597 5 ° 8 13
508
52 “
8
53 8
55 8
8
59 7
17
37
57
77 56
87 57 8
1 0 7 5 8 8
1 2 7 5 9 8
148 08
15 o
1 7 8
19 8
y.t
h.m.
— K
h.m.
38
48
58
7 8
88
98
98
io'8
id 8
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
*3
13
13
12
127
127
117
117
107
107
97
97
87
7 7
7'7
6 7
'7
co 6
49 6
48
47 6
45-6
446
6
h.m.
7
7
7
7
7
7
59
587
57
56
42
40
39
37
35
33
31
3°
28
26
24
23 6
21 6
196
557
53:7
52.7
506 596
17
*5
14
12
106
8|6
76
5
3
1
59
58
56
54
52
48
46
44
4?
40
38
36
34
32
3°
28
26
2 4
22
20
18
16
14
12
io
8
6
4
2
O’
Origirval from
V n D k ^ Dl I P I i r I I D D A P V
"0
-t A T A B L E o f T W I L I G H T f o r t h e L a t i t u d e o f 44. d e c re e s .
O SB 1
0 2 0 0 a 10 2 0 0 m i o 2 0 3 °
3 5 9 5 6 4 5 9 4 5° 4 41 4 3° 4 22 4 16 4 13 4 10
d 6 55 6 52 6 4 2 6 30 6 16 5 3 5 59 6 43 5 38 5 34
5 8 42 8 39 8 2 6 8 n 7 5 2 7 34 2 19 7 9 7 2 6 58
6 10 32 10 26 10 11 9 5 2 9 3° 9 8 8 49 8 36 8 2 7 8 21
7
o
12 2 4 12 *7 11 59 11 36 11 9 10 43 10 2 0 10 4 8 52 9 45
0 ‘4 *9 14 12 13 5 i »3 22 12 5° 12 1 9 1 1 5 2 11 3 2 11 18 I t 9
9 l 6 J 7 16 9 *5 44 '5 11 ’4 3 2 l3 55 *3 24 *3 0 12 44 12 33
10 18 18 18 7 17 38 16 58 l 6 14 15 33 1 4 -56 14 29 14 10 T3 58
11 2 0 23 2 0 9 *9 35 18 53 *7 59 '7 12 16 3 ° 15 59 15 37 15 23
12 22 3 i 22 17 21 38 2 0 45 19 47 18 53 18 6 ;! 7 3 0 17 4 16 4 8
13 2 4 45 24 28 23 45 2 2 4 6 21 37 2 0 35 19 4 2 19 1 18 3 2 1 7 13
14 27 5 26 4 4 25 H 24 44 23 3° 22 19 21 19 2 0 3 3 2 0 14 9 39
15 2 9 32 29 IO 28 IO 2 6 49 25 24 24 6 22 59122 6 J21 3 0 2 1 4
l 6 3 2 7 3 i 4-5 30 3 2 28 59 27 23 25 54 24 3 8!23 4 i 22 5 9 2 2 32
' I 34 4 6 34 27
/ 33 2 3 i 16 29 2 5 27 45 2 6 2 0 25 19 2 4 3° 23 5 9
10 37 32 37 l 6 35 4 0
33 38 3 1 3 ° 29 3 8 2 8 0 26 55 26 *
0 25 2 6
3°
n 2 0 10 O « 20 IO O <ir 2 0 IO <
D
0 A 10 2 0 O ni IO 2 0 O l i o 2 0 3P
3 4 10 4 12 4 *3 4 19 4 26 4 3 5 4 41 4 4 8 4 53 4 55
4 5 34 5 35 5 37 5 44 5 53 6 5 6 13 6 22 6 28 6 3°
5 0 58 6
A
58 z
1 7 9 7 2 0 7 3 4 7 44 7 5 6 8 3 8 5
6 5 21 8 21 8 2 5
O
8 34 8 47 9 3 9 15 9 2 8 9 39 9 4 0
.7 9 4 5 9 44 9 48 9 56 10 13 10 3 1 ;10 45 11 0 11 10 11 13
8 11 9 11 7 11 13 l i 21 11 39 11 59,12 14 12 31'12 42 12 45
9 12
32
12 3 1 12 36 12 4 6 1 3 4 !3 2 5 2 3 42 14 1 1 4 13 14 16
10 13 58 »3 55 13 59 H 1 2 1 4 29 r4 5 2 1 5 11 15 30 15 44 15 4 8
11 i j 2 2 *5 19 «5 23 15 35 15 54 l 6 17.16 49 16 5 9 17 14 17 18
12 16 4 8 16 43 16 47 16 59 16 19 18 4 2 1 8 6 18 28 18 43 18 47
*3 18 13 18 7 18 10 18 22 18 45 *9 9 1 9 32 19 56 2 0 12 20 17
14 19 39 *9 3 i 19 33 19 4 6 2 0 12 2 0 36 2 0 59 21 2 4 21 4 2 21 4 6
15
X1
21 4 2 0 55 20 55 21 8(21 34 22 1 22 2 5 .2 2 51 23 9 23 *3
l6 22 3 2 22 19 2 2 2 0 22
33 22 55;23 26 23 5 i 24 !7 2 4 3 6 24 4 2
23 59 23 44 23 44 23 57 2 4 19,24 5 * *5 1 7 2 5 44 26 3 2 6 7
18 25 2 0 25 9 25 8
25 2 0 25 4 3 2 6 J 5 26 4 2 27 10 2 7 3° 2 7 37
30 x 2 0 10 O ~ 2 0 10 0 i Yf 2 0 IO O
Digitized by Google Original from
m e m / v n d i i d i i r i i d d a d v
o p A S T R O L O G Y S °3
T
to
• O es ic I 20 O si 10 20
I <
0 | "R
IO
1• O
20 3 °
3 5 33 5 3 i 5 23 5 IO 5 0 4 49 4 3 8
1
; 4 3 3 4 26 4 2^
4 7 3° 7 26 7 16 6 58 6 43 6 27; 6 13 6 5 5 56 5 59
5
/ 9 29 9 24 9 10 8 47 8 27 8 6! 7 48 7 35 7 25 7 21
0 r1 29 I 1 24 11 6 10 40 10 10 9 46. 9 2 3 9 7 8 55 8 49
7 *3 3 4 »3 28 *3 5 12 34 12 0 11 28 11 0 10 3 9 10 25 10 18
8 *5 44 '5 35 *5 7*4 3° *3 5° *3 11 12 38 12 10 11 56 u 46
9 17 58 *7 46 17 *3 l 6 49 ‘ 5 4i r4 56 l4 1743 .45 »3 27 *3 _ i 6
10 20 15 20 3 19 20 18 31 l7 34 16 40 *5 57 *5 19 14 59 14 45
11 22 40 22 26 21 37 20 36 19 3 0 18 3° i7 38 16 54 16 21 16 i ?
12 25 10 24 54 24 O 22 46 21 30 20 2 0 l9 2 0 18 29 18 4 17 4 $
*3 27 53 27 30 26 28 25 I 2 3 33 22 13 21 4 20 7 19 3949 16
h 30 45 3° l 8 29 3 27 20 25 39 24 8 22 51 21 50 21 1020 47
»533 5° 33 J931 46 29 47 27 5° 26 6 24 39 23 36 22 3922 18
l6 37 20 36 37 34 43 32 20 3° 6 28 6,26 26 25 18 24 17,23 50
17 41 *7 40 20 37 58 35 9 32 28 3o 1028 20 27 0 25 5725 2S
l8 46 6 44 46 41 37 38 5 34 573 2 2130 31 29 3 27 39 26 50
3° n 20 IO O « 20 IO | (D V20 IO O
O *
=
»10 20 O m
. 10
1
20 0 * IO 20 30
3 4 24 4 25 4 28 4 34 4 4ij 4 5° 4 4 9 ; 5 9 5 16 5 18
4 5 53 5 54 5 57 6 4 6 13' 6 26 6 3«, 6 49 6 57 6 59
5 Z 21 7 21 Z 25 7 34 7 45 8 0 8 15 8 29 8 39 8 4i
6 8 49 8 49 8 5° 9 4 9 !7 9 34 9 51 10 8 10 20 10 23
7!10 18 IO *7 10 20 10 34 10 48 11 7 'i 2711 45 11 58 12 i
8 11
1 46 11 44 11 50 12 3 12 ! 9 12 5013 243 20 J3 36 13 39
9 *3 16 •3 *3 13 19 »3 3 0 «3 40 H 1oil4 3 6 ,1 4 5 8 15 13 15 r7
10 H 45 14 41 H 46 x5 0 15 19 !5 4316 9 16 33 16 5° 16 54
11 16 15 IO 9 16 14 16 28 16 49 *7 1417 4018 7 18 25 18 29
12 *7 45 *7 37 *7 42 17 57 18 18 18 4 5 4 9 1419 41 20 0 20 5
*3 T9 16 >9 7 19 11 19 25 19 47 20 15,20 4521 i4i 21 33 21 40
*4 20 47 20 36 20 3 8 20 5321 !5 21 4522 1622 47 23 7 23 13
15 22 18 22 4 22 522 21 2 2 44 23 15 23 47 24 »9 24 3° 24 37
16 a3 5° 23 .34 23 3423 49 24 10 24 44 2 5 18 25 50 26 10 26 19
J 7 25 2325 4 25 0 25 i 7 l25 4i 26 13 26 48 27 21 27 24 27 50
18 26 5726 36 26 30 26 45 2 7 40 27 40 28 18 28 50 29 16 29 24
30 x 20 I O O X
T 20 I O 0 V 20 I O O
No. 25. 6 G
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
5°4
P
a
r
a
l
.
j
A T A B L E o f T W I L I G H T f o r t h e L a t i t u d e o f 5 0 d e g r e e s .
O SB 10 2 0 O a 1 0 1 2 0 0 1 0 2 0 3 °
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1 0
1 1
1 2
*3
H
»5
1 6
*7
1 8
6 9
8 1 8
1 0 33
1 2 5 1
x5 1 5
1 7 4 6
2 0 4 4
2 3 1 0
2 6 6
2 9 2 0
35 5 8
37 5
4 2 5
4 9 1 7
6 5
8 1 5
1 0 2 7
1 2 43
15 5
!7 33
2 0 8
2 2 4 9
2 5 4 i
2 8 5 0
3 2 1 8
36 9
40 4 5
4 6 4 8
5 5 4
8 1
1 0 9
1 2 1 8
*4 33
1 6 5 4
1 9 2 0
2 1 5 0
2 4 3 °
2 7 2 4
3 0 2 8
33 5 1
37 3 8
43 5°
47 5 8
5 40
7 3 8
9 39
1 1 4 0
13 49
1 6 0
1 8 1 5
2 0 3 4
2 2 5 9
2 5 33
2 8 1 6
3 1 9
3 4 1 3
37 37
4 1 2 8
4 6 0
5 2 5
7 l 8 j
9 « ° |
7
i 3 5
■ J 6
1 7 I I
19 1 7
2 1 2 7
2 3 4 0
2 6 5
2 8 3 4
3 1 I O
33 55
36 5 °
4 0 5
5 J3
1 6 5 8
8 4 6
i o 3 1
1 2 2 0
|»4 1 S
1 6 1 0
j i 8 6
I 2 0 6
’
22 I O
,
24 1 7
' 2 6 2 6
2 8 43
;3 i 3
i33 3°
3 6 4
4 59
6 39
8 2 1
1 0 4
1 1 4 9
13 35
1 5 2 0
1 7 1 0
1 9 i
2 0 5 5
2 2 4 9
2 4 4 6
2 6 4 6
2 8 5 0
3° 57
33 7
4 5 °
6 2 5
8 0
9 4 °
1 1 2 0
1 3 0
r4 43
1 6 2 5
1 8 8
l 9 5 1
2 1 3 7
2 3 2 8
25 1 8
2 7 1 0
2 9 3
3 1 i
4 4 0
6 1 8
7 43
9 2 8
“ 3
, 1 2 3 9
1 3 1 6
!»5 54
1*7 3 3
I 1 9 1 4
; 2 0 5 6
i 2 2 3 8
1 2 4 2 0
' 2 6 8
2 7 53
2 9 3 6
4 4 °
6 1 4
7 4 8
9 2 0
1 0 5 0
1 2 3 0
H 5
l 5 4 ©
1 7 1 6
1 8 5 2
2 0 2 9
2 2 7
2 3 45
2 5 24
2 7 3
2 8 4 4
3 0 i n 2 0 I O O # 2 0 I O O *Y
* 2 0 I O O
O 1 0 2 0 O n I O 2 0 O 1 1 0 2 0
30
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1 0
1 1
1 2
13
M
* 5,
l 6 i
1 7
1 8
4 40
6 1 4
7 4 8
9 2 0
1 0 5 6
1 2 3 0
*4 5
1 5 4 0
1 1 7 1 6
j i 8 5 2
| 2 0 2 9
, 2 2 7
2 3 45
25 24
27 3
2 8 4 4
4 4 1
6 1 5
7 4 8
9 2 0
1 0 5 8
1 2 2 8
1 4 0
*5 3 6 ;
1 7 1 0
1 8 4 4
2 0 1 8
2 1 53
2 3 2 8
2 5 4
2 6 4 0
2 8 1 7
4 4 4
6 1 8
: 7 5 °
, 9 2 6
I11 0
1 2 3 0
1 4 6
*5 4 °
1 7 1 4
1 8 4 7
2 0 1 6
2 1 54
2 3 2 8
2 5 0
2 6 3 6
2 8 1 0
4 51
] 6 2 7
1 8 3
| 9 3 8
: i i 1 3
1 2 4 8
1 4 2 0
4 5 56
*7 3 o
*9 3
20 37
2 2 1 0
2 3 44
2 5 1 7
2 6 5 1
2 8 2 4
5 4
6 4 1
8 1 9
9 57
11 3 4
1 3 1 0
H 4 6
1 6 2 1
J7 5 6
J9 31
2 1 s
2 2 3 9
24 1 3
2 5 47
2 7 2 1
2 8 54
5 1 3
6 54
8 35
j i o 3 8
I11 55
13 34
j i 5 1 0
! 6 4 9
1 8 2 6
20 O
2 1 3 8
23 33
2 4 4 8
2 6 2 3
27 57
29 3 1
5 2 5
7 1 0
8 54
i o 3 8
1 2 2 0
*4 1
1 5 4 1
1 7 2 1
18 59
2 0 3 8
2 2 1 5
2 3 5 °
2 5 2 8
27 4
2 8 4 0
3° *5
5 36
7 2 4
9
1 0 5 8
1 2 4 0
1 4 2 6
1 6 8
17 50
1 9 3 0
2 1 0
2 2 4 9
2 4 2 7
2 5 5
27 4 °
2 9 1 9
3 0 2 8
5 4 4
7 3 4
9 2 3
1 1 1 0
1 2 5 8
1 4 4 4
1 6 2 7
1 8 1 0
1 9 5 °
2 1 3 3
23 J 3
24 53
2 6 3 1
2 8 9
2 9 4 6
3 i 2 3
5 46
7 3 7 ,
9 27
11 17
10 4
*4 5 i
*6 35
18 18
20 1
21 40
23 23
25 3
26 41
28 20
29 57
3 1 34
H 30 x 20 IO O 20 IO O b*20 I O O
a
i
F
i
n
n
f
i
-
n
r
l
-
«
-
p
>
Q
n
i
m
Q
n
m
i
h
p
i
r
A
A
A
A
A
A
/
/
T
h
i
i
i
/
n
a
7
n
i
f
i
i
n
-
a
i
f
i
n
n
c
^
'i
i
i
p
n
m
n
Digitized by Google Original from
MC\A/ v n o i ' Dl IPI Ir I I D D A D V
u
u
i
i
i
c
i
m
,
u
u
u
y
i
t
:
-
u
i
y
n
-i^
e
u
/
i
i
ll|j.//v
v
v
v
v
v
.iid
u
n
u
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/d
t.t.t:b
b
_
u
b
fc
:-«
-|J
u
-y
u
u
y
ie
*0
A TABLE of TW ILIGHT for the Latitude of 52 degree's.
O 25 IO 20 O a 10 • 20 0 1
1
t* IO 20 3 0
3 6 40 6 36 6 22 6 5 5 4 5 j
I 6 2 7 5 l6 5 2 4 5 6 4 55
4 9 I 56 8 36 8 10 7 4 4 7 J 9 7 O 6 44 6 35 6 3°
5 11 2 9 U 21 10 54 10 20 9 45 ! 9 *3 8 4 » 8 27 8 15 8 8
6 H 4 * 3 5 2 l 3 18 12 35 11 5° 11 9 10 36 10 11 9 55 9 46
7 16 4616 3 1 15 48 *4 53 n 57iJ3 / 12 27 11 56 u 36 11 2 5
8 J9 3 7 * 9 19 18 25 •7 17 16 9]
i5 8 H 20 13 42 *3 *3 5
I 9 22 41 22 18 21 IO J9 47 18 2517 10 16 14 *5 2 9 14 49 »4 45
10 26 O25 28 24 6 22 2 3 20 4 4 1 9 1 7 18 9 17 *7 16 43 16 25
1 1 29 41 28 5 9 l27 16 25 8 23 921 27'20 7 19 7,18 28 18 5
12 33 54 3 2 5930 43 28 5 25 40 2 3 40 22 9 21 020 13 J9 45
13 39 2 37 40 34 35 3 i 16 28 21 26 1 24 *3 22 54 21 59 21 26
M 46 3 ° 43 54 29 0 3-4 45 3 1 11 28 24 26 49 24 48123 46 23 8
*5 46 5°,45 4 38 40 34 J3 3 ° 55 28 3 o 26 4 5 |2 5 35'24 5°
l6 43 2 3 3 7 3 Ii33 3°,3 o 45 28 45127 25,26 36
17 49 40 4 i 11 36 21 33 5 3 ° 47 29 IO128 21
18 45 26'39 20 35 3° 32 55 3 1 10 3° 8
3 ° n 20 | 10 O « 20 IO O r 20 IO o
O *= IO 20 O nt 10 20 O / 10 20 3 ° ~
3 4 53' 4 54 4 s«j 5 5 5 J 7 5 29 5 45 5 58 6 7 6 10
4 6 3 ° 6 3 1 6 3 6 6 45 7 0 7 16 7 3 6 7 53 8 5 8 9
5 8 8 8 8- 8 I 3I 8 24 8 43 9 2 9 26 9 46 10 0 10 6
6 9 46 9 46 9 5°; 10 5 10 25 10 47 11 2 5 11 38 11 55 12 0
7 I11 25 11 24 11 30 11 44 12 7 12 3 l i»3 0 13 28 13 46113 55
8i13 4 »3 0 I 3 8 *3 2 3 *3 48 14 »5 14 49 *5 18 *5 3 7 4 5 46
9 * 4 43 •4 39 *4 45 l 5 0 ‘ 5 2815 57 16 34 *7 5 17 26^7 35
■ 10! 16 23 16 *7 16 2 3 16 40 *7 7 17 39 18 18 18 5° 19 1519 25
11! 18 5 17 55 18 0 18 18 18 4619 20 20 0 20 36 21 2(21 10
1219 44 l 9 34 »9 37 19 55 20 2520 1 21 44 22 19 22 48 122 59
1321 26 21 3 1 21 15 21 33 22 4 22 4 i 23 26 24 5 24 30 24 45
i 4,23 28 22 5° 22 53 2 3 40 23 4024 21 25 7 25 48 26 16 26 28
i 5 24 5° 24 3° 24 3 1 24 49 25 20 26 0 26 48 27 3° 2 7 59 28 10
x6(26 36 26 10 26 9 26 25 26 57 27 39 28 28 29 13 28 40 29 55
17,28 21 27 54 27 4928 0 28 35 29 *7 30 8 3° 53 3 1 25 31 37
18 3 ° 8 29 35 29 27 29 4 « 30 13 3° 55 3 1 48 3 2 3 ° 33 5 33 2 0
3° X 20 10 O ~ 20 10 O v 20 IO O -•
Digitizes by_Go sle Original from
O P A S T R O L O G Y S°7
*
T
p
•
-
> A TABLE of TWILIGHT for the Latitude of degrees.
• c 35 10 20 0 il IO 20 O 1
$ IO 20 3 °
3 7 6 6 53 6 38 6 l l 5
1
55, 5 36 5 20 5 9 5 3 4 59
4 9 35 9 *9 8 58 8 29 7 sH 7 3*| 7 11 6 54 6 46 6 39
5 12 II II 50 I1 23 IO 45 10 4
J 9 28 9 0 8 4c 8 28 8 2C
6 14 55114 34 13 56 13 6 12 13 11 29 10 54 10 26 10 JO 10 0
7 *7 49 n 24 16 35 *5 3o 14 26 '3 3f 12 48 12 *4 11 52 11 4 >
8 20 56 2 0 24 ‘9 24 18 4 16 44 *5 38 *4 45 14 4 *3 38 *3 20
9 24 18 23 39 22 23 20 43 r9 6 *7 46 16 43 l S 54 J5 22 *5 4
10 28 c *7 13 25 38 23 30 21 23 19 57 18 40 *7 45 n 9 16 46
1132 *7 3 1 15 a9 10 26 27 24 7 22 •3 20 4519 35 18 56 18 29
12 37 30 36 I 32 39 29 40 26 49 24 34.22 5 *
i(21 34 20 44 20 13
13 45 3 42 18 37 36 33 13 29 41 27 0I25 o|23 34 22 32 21 57
14 43 37 37 M 32 46 29 33 27 10,25 34 24 24 23 43
15 57 3 l 42 O36 P
j
32 *5>9 29 27 34 26 *7 25 28
l6 48 23 39 5 135 4 3 1 50 29 38 28 11 27 16
*7 44 10 38 634 21 3 * 46 30 7 29 4
18 49 37 41 2536 56
1 33 58 32 6 30 54
3° n 20 IO O 8 20 IO 0 V 20 IO O
O •a jo 20 O ttl IO 20 0 / 10 20 30
3 4 59 4 59 5 5 5 *3 5 26 5 4 1
1
5 55 ! 6 10 6 21 6 26
4 6 39 6 39 6 46 6 55 7 10 7 3 1 7 50 8 8 8 20 8 28
5 8 20 8 19 8 26 8 37 8 57 9 20: 9 43 10 4 10 21 10 28
6 10 0 9 59 10 7 10 20 10 40 11 8; U
1 3° 12 0 12 J9 12 27
7,i 1 41 11 39 11 47 12 0 12 26 12 55 33 2 5 J3 54 *4 *5 *4 24
813 20 13 18 13 26 13 43 14 9 *4 4 1 l 5 *5 *5 46 16 9 16 *9
9 15 4 *4 58 *5 6 >5 24 15 51 16 26 *7 0 *7 36 l8 0 18 11
10 16 46 16 38 16 46 17 4 *7 34 18 10 18 49*9 25 *9 50 20 3
11 18 29 18 19 18 26 18 44 ‘9 *5 J9 54 20 35;21 *4 21 40 2 j 54
12 20 *3 20 0 20 6 2° 24 20 56 21 37 22 2023 123 3 123 43
*3 21 57 21 41 21 45 22 A22 37 23 J9 24 424 47 25 18 25 3 1
14 23 4023 2 3 23 26 23 44 24 >7 25 125 48 26 34 27 5 27 x8
IS 25 2825 5 25 6 25 24 25 57 26 40 27 3 *28 *7 28 54 29 5
16 27 1626 48,26 48 27 4 27 37 28 23 29 *3 3° 130 36 30 50
29 428 3020 20 28 44 29 *7 30 4 30 55 3 * 44 32 20 3 2 35
1830 54 3° l6 3° 9 30 20 30 57 3 1 44 32 37 33 27 34 3 34 18
30 K 20 10 0 20 IO O v 20 IO C
)
No. 25. 6 H
Digitized by Google Original from
M HA f v n O b ' Ol ID I Ir I I D Q A Q V
« O 2S IQ 20
•
c) a jo 20 O 10 20 3 °
3 7 l7 7 *3 6 55 6 3° 6 10 5 49 5 3 1 5 18 5 10 5 7
4 9 56 9 4 8 9 23 8 5° 8 *7 7 48 7 22 7 5 6 54 6 49
5 12 40 12 3 1 11 57 I 1 13 10 28, 9 5C 9 *7 '8 54 8 39 8 3°
6 *5 39*5 24 14 38 13 40 12 4 4 4 * 55 11 *4 10 44 10 25 10 15
7 18 4 818 2617 28 l6 14 l 5 2 *4 5 *3 JO 12 35 12 11 11 5 8
8 22 1021 44,20 29 l8 56 17 2 7 l 6 *5 45 10 14 27 *3 58 13 40
9|25 5925 20,23 44 21 46 *9 .5 7 28 27 *7 *5 16 2 j
/ *5 46 *5 26
10 30 1829 25 27 l6 24 47 22 3 4 2 0 44 *9 *9 18 16 l 7 34 »7 11
1 1';35 3 5 3 4 1631 16 28 O25 1723 721 27 20 i 4 *9 24 18 57
1247 3 0 4 0 3 9 3 5 58,3 * 3 8 28 1027 35 23 37 22 14 21 17 20 45
13 42 O35 4 l 31 2028 10 25 5° 24 15|23 10 22 30
14 56 9 40 3 l 34 4430 54 28 11 26 49,25 4 24 18
15 46 59 38 3 1,33 46 3° 36 28 2626 49 26 8
i6 4 2 54;36 5° 33 6 3° 36 28 57 27 5 8
17
48 2740 15 35 44 32 5 1 3° 58 29 5°
18 57 34 44 0 38 30 35 9 33 0 3 * 45
3 ° 1 X
I 20 IO O « 20 IO O «
v
»20 IO O
0 * IO 1 20
1
O ni 10 20 O X IO 20 30
3 5 7 5 7 •5 10 5 21 5 34 5 5° 6 8 6 20 6 36 6 40
4 6 49 6 48 6 54 7 5 7 29 7 44 8 6 8 26 8 40 8 49
5 ; 8 3 ° 8 31 8 381 8 5 * 9 10 9 3' 10 4 10 26 10 45 10 54
6 to 15 ro 14 JO 21 'jo
1 3 6 10 58 11 27 11 58 12 25 12 46 12 56
7 11 58 11 55 I 2 4 12 20 12 44 *3 *7 *3 5° *4 20 *4 45 H 55
8\l 3 4 ° •3 37 *3 45^4 4 H 3°i! 5 6 *5 44 16 18 16 44 16 54
9 *5 26 *5 i 9 J5 26 15 47 16 *5[16 54 l 7 34 18 11 18 39 18 5°
16 *7 11 *7 0 17 9*7 29 »7 59 18 40 l 9 24 20 4 20 34 20 45
11 18 57 18 46 18 50119 10 l 9 44!20 26 21 10 21 54 22 25 22 38
12'20 44 20 29 20 34 20 54 21 27,22 JO z 3 0 23 45 24 *7 24 3 i
1 3 22 3 ° 22 14 22 16 22 36 23 1023 57 24 47 25 34 26 7 26 21
M '24 18 23 58 23 5924 18 24 54 25 41 26 34 27 20 27 57 28 10
15:26 8 25 44 25 41 26 c 26 3627 25 28 18 29 9 29 45 30 b
16:27 58 27 28 27 2527 40 28 18129 8 3° 3 30 55 3* 3° 3 1 48
*7 29 5° 29 29 8.49 25 3 ° 0 3 0 5 1 32 47 32 4 * 33 49 33 35
18 3 i 44 31 0 30 5° 3 1 7 3 1 4 ° 32 3433 3 134 26 35 5 35 20
3° x 20 : 10 O Z Z 20 1 10 1 O >
f 20 1 IO O
Original from
M P u r v n di i m i r i m n * « w
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 509
A T A B L E o f T W I L I G H T f o r t h e L a t i t u d e o f 5 5 d e g r e e s .
• 0 Z3 I Q 2 0 O si 10 2 0
1___ _
o | I O 2 0 3 0
3 7 4 0
7 3 4 7 1 6 6 4 8 6 2 0 5 59 5 4 0 ! 5 2 6 5 1 8
5 H
4 I O
3 >, 1 0 1 8
9 5 1 9 1 2 8 35 8 0 7 3 6 7 1 6
7 5 6
59
5 *3 2 c
‘3 1 0 1 2 3 5 1 1 4 2 1 0
5 °
1 0 8 9 3 ° 9 8 8 54 8 4 4
t l 6 4 1 6
1 9 <5 2 8 4 4
2 0 i I 3 1 4 1 2 1 8 1 1 34 [ 1 1 1 1 0 4 1 1 0
29
7 2 0
9 •9 4 0 1 8
3 0 4 7 4 4 5 1 4 4 4 3 1 13 37 ( 2
5 6
1 2 2 9 1 2 1 6
b 2 3 5 9 23 2 0 2 1 4 9 1 9 5 6 4 8 1 2 1 6 4 6 *5 4°!14 5 2 i J4 2 0 H 4
9 2 8 2 C
27 2 6 2 5 2 4 2 3 0 2 0
5° *9 9 ‘7 4 6 1") 4 9 : 1 6 1 1
*5 5 0
1C
33 4 4 3 2 2 1 2 9 2 7 2 6 1 8 2 3 38 2 1 3 1 •9 5 6 1 8 4 8 1 8
5 J7 37
1 1 4 1 3 ° 38 5 ° 3 4 14 2 9 5 7 : 2 6 3 4 :24 0 2 2 i O ^ O
1 49 J9 57 *9 2 6
1 2 4 0 2 4 : 3 4 5 2 9 4 6 2 6 4 0 2 4 2 7 1 2 2 5 2 2 1
5 2
2 1
15
*3 3 8 5 6 33 1 0
29 2 6 2 6 4 8|
2 5 0 23 47 2 3 5
1 4 45
0 0
37 3 32
2 1 29 1 5|27 9 2 5
4 6 2 4 57
*5 4 * 3 1 35 2 (y 31 4 8 1 2 9 2 1 2 7 44 2 6
49
l 6
47 6 3 8 54 3 4 2 8 | 3 1 3 8
2 9 49 2 0 44
1 7 56 25 4 2 44 37 1 8 33 59 3 1 5 2 3°
4 0
1 8
47 1 0 4 0 1 8 36 2 6 33 55 3 2 36
3°
U 2 0 1 0 O « 2 0 l o C
> ~ y ~ 2 0 I O O
O 1 0 2 0 O 1 »n 1 0 20 c
5 1
1C 2 0
•
3 °
1
3 4 M 5 4 5 2 1 5 3 ° 5 44 6 2 6 20 6
3 8
6
5 2
6 58
4 6
49 6 58 7
6
7 8 7 5 6 7 59 8
1
2 4 : 8 4 6 9 3 9 t o l
1
5
/
8 44 8 42 8
5 2 9 6 9 6 9 54 1 0 2 4 1 0 5 1
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9 l
6 1 0
30 1 0 2 8 1 0
37 1 0
53 1 1 1 8 1 1 4 8 1 2 2 2 1 2 55 J3 1 6 : 1 3 2 5 !
7
c»
1 2 1 6 1 2 1 4 1 2 2 2 1 2 4 0 1C
57 L 3 4 i H 2 ° 1 4 55 *5 *9 *5 2 9 !
£
H A ‘3 5 8 1 4 7 1 4 2 6 1 4 56 *5 34 1 6
l ' r. 1 6 5 2 *7
1
2 0 , 7 3 1!
9 >5 S°'\'S 4 4 1 5 5 1 16 1 1 1 6 34 J7 2 5 1 8 7 1 8 49 >9
1 9 1 9
3 1 !
1C
l7 1 4 j17 2 « j i 7 ‘ 3 fc x7 5 fc
1 8 30 J9 2 0 0 : 2 0 44 2 1 1 7 2 1 3 0 ;
13 '9 2 6 1 1 9 1 5 *9 2 2 '9 41 2 0 7 2 1 2 2 1 5 1 2 2 38 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 6
1 2 2 1 J 5 2 i O2 1 6 2 1 2 6 2 2 5 2 2
5 ° 2 3 4 2 2 4 3 1 2 5 8 2 5
22l
*3 2 3 5122 4 6 2 2 59 23 1 1
23 39 [24 37,2 5 3 2 : 2 6 2 3 2 7 1 2 7
*5
*4 2 4
57|24 34 2 4 3 c 24 5 ^ 2 5 3 ‘ 2 6
2 4 - 2 7 2 1 1 2 8 1 4 2 8 53 29 8
*5 2 6 4 9 2 6 2 ^ 2 6 2 1 2 6 4 ! 27 c
.
J 2 8 1 1
29 9 30 4 3 ° 4 4 3 ° 59
1 6 2 8 4 4 2 8 11 2 8 8 2 8 25 29 4 29 57 30 5 7 !3 i 53 32 35:3 2 5 *
27
, 0
30 4 0 30 1 2 9 55 3 °
1 0 30 49 3 1 4 1 32 +4 33 4 1 34 24134 4 0
l o 32 36 3 i 5 1 3 1 41 3 1 55 39 33 33 2 -
3 4 3C 35 2 9 5 6
3 °
3 0 X 2 0 IO O - 2 0 1 0 O vt 2 0 1 0 1
' 0 r
Digitized by Google Original from
m c u / v n B v d i i d 1 1r i i d d a d v
a n i l l u s t r a t i o n
T
w
•-i
C
O A TABLE of T W IL IG H T for the Latitude of 56 degrees.
O 2210 20
j
0 a 10 20 0 ns 10 20 30
3 8 9 8 I
1
7 32 7 8 6 37 6 12 5 5° 5 37 5 26 5 20
4 I 1 10 IO 56 IO 24 9 40 8 56 8 20 7 5° 7 3° 7 1.6 7 IO
5 14 24 H 5 13 19 12 10 11 19 10 3 X 9 5 2 9 25 9 7 8 58
6 l 7 55 17 30 l6 26 *5 6 *3 48 12 46 11 57 11 2.2 10 58 IO 46
7 21 49,21 14 19 4 2 18 2 16 24 *5 4 14 4 '3 20 12 5° 12 35
8 26 172 5 25 23 26 21 9 x9 5 *7 27 16 J4 15 20 14 44 14 25
9 31 4 I;3° 24 27 35 24 3 1 22 54 19 55 18 4 2 l 7 21 16 39 16 15
10 39 34 36 58 32 25 28 11 24 54 22 28 20 39 x9 24 18 35 18 6
11 32 22 28 ^ 25 8 22 58 21 30 20 31 19 57
12 37 21 3 1 32i27 56 25 24 23 39 22 3° 21 50
*3 44 0 35 3 * 3° 54 27 9 25 51 24 3 1 23 44-
J4 40 4 34 5 30 27[28 5 26 34 25 38
J5 45 45 37 3 2 33 9 30 21 28 3 8 27 34
16 55 5 4 1 27 36 2 32 38 3° 45 29 30
11 45 58 39 7 35 6 32 55 3 1 3 1
j .
5 i 40 42 25 37 54 35 9 33 34
i
,co
1
o
I
n 20 j o __0 B20 IO O r 20 IO 0
0 tO
: IQ 20 O «t 10 20 O f 10 20 30
i * 3 5 22 5 24 5 28 5 40 5 54 6 14 6 35 6 55 7 11 7 18
! 4 7 101 7 10 7 i6| 7 3° 7 49 8 15 8 4 i 9 7 9 27 9 35
5 8 5 8 8 58 9 5 9 21 9 44 10 14 10 45 n 16 11 40 11 4 9 f
6 10 46 10 45 10 5 4 l» 12 11 37 12 11 12 47 J3 22 x3 JO >4 0
7 12 35,12 3 2 12 40 x3 1 13 29 f4 8 14 47 *5 28 *5 5816 '9
8 14 25 14 20 H 28 14 5° *5 21 16 4 16 47 17 29 18 5 18 15
9 16 15 16 8 16 15 16 38 17 11 56 .8 42 l 9 29 20 6 20 19
10 18 6 i7 56 18 4 18 26 x9 1 19 4920 39 21 28 22 7 j22 21
11 ‘9 57 19 44 '9 50 20 14 20 5021 4^22 34 23 27 24 7;24 21
12 21 5° 21 34 21 38 22 1 22 39 23 32^4 28 25 24 26 5.)26 20 i
^3 23 43 23 24 23 25 23 49 24 2825 22 26 20 27 18 28 128 17 j
x4 25 38 25 x4 25 i 4 25 36 26 1627 12 28 12 29 10 29 57130 14
J5 27 34 2Z 4|27 127 24 28 4 29 1 30 2 3 1 5 31 5°'3 2 7
16129 32 28 56128 5029 11 29 51 3° 49 3 i 523 2 57 33 45 34 2
17^1 3 1 3° 49 3° 39 3° 59 3 i 39 32 39 33 4 2 34 5° 35 36 35 5 2
18 33 34 32 44 32 29 32 40 33 26 34 26 35 S836 28 37 28 37 46
30 X 20 I O O - 2 0 JO O 20 10 6
Original from
I I n 11 \ / / \ n i / r% i m i m a
Semidi­
urnalor
feminoc
turnal
Arches.
fh. m.
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
6
o
6
12
18
24
3°
36
42
48
54
o
6
12
18
24
3°
36
42
48
54
o
6
12
18
24
30
36
42
48
54
o
S/w? oj
one
Houfe
d. m.
*5
‘5
16
16
’7
18
18
'9
*9
20
20
21
2r
22
22
23
23
24
24
25
25
26
26
27
27
28
28
29
29
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
30
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
30
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
Semi- Sex- Quin­
quar- tile. tile.
tile.
Smq. * CL
m.
22 30
23 J5
24 o
24 45
25 3 °
26 15
27 o
d.m.
3°
31 o
32 0
d. m.
036
37
38
Q uar-
tile .
□
d. m,
45
1246
24I48
3°
Trine.
d. m.
60
62
33 0|39 36i
49
48|5 i
0|C2
1254
34 0 4 °
35 ®42
36 043
27 4537 ° 4 4 2455
28 30138 0^5 3657
29 1539 °'46 48 58
0140 o'4S 060
45J
4 1 °4 9
3042 050
1543 0 5 1
044 052
_ 45 45 ° 5 4
34 3046 055
35 *5 47 ° 5 6
048 057
058
060
061
062
30
30
3 1
32
33
33
36
36
37
38
39
39
40
4 1
42
42
43
44
45
4549
30 50
15 5 *
o 52
45 ?3
3054
15 55
o 56
45 57
No. 26.
063 3679
o 64 48 8i
066 082
067 1284
068 2485
3 0 5 8 069 3687
J5 59 ° 7° 48 88
o 60 072 0 90
T F
064
3°66
068
70
72
7t
1
3°
o
3°
o
12 61
2463
3664
48 66
o 67
1269
2470
3672
4873
075
12 76
2478
0 80
82
30
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
30
o
3°
o
3°
o
3°
o
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
1 0 0
102
104
1 0 6
108
110
1j 2
114
116
118
120
Sefq Biquin­ Opp0-
qua­ tile. fition.
drate.
Sfq. Bq. 8
d. m. d. ID. d. m.
,67 30 72 0 90 O
69 45 74 24 93 0
72 0 76 48 96 0
74 *5 79 12 99 c
76 30 !8i 36 102 0
7« 45;84 0 105 G
81 0 86 24 108 O
83 l 5 88 48 111 c
85 30 9i 12 114 0
87 45 93 36 117 •0
9° 0 96 0 120 0
92 15 98 24 123 c
.94 3° 100 48 126 0
196 45 103 12 129 0
'99 0 1o5 36 *32 c
»101 >5 ro8 0 *35 0
*103 3° 110 24 138 0
,105 45 112 48 '41 0
1108 0 **5 12 144 0
»110 15 1 *7 36 147 0
>112 3° 120 0 *5° 0
114 45 122 24 153 0
117 0 124 48 1 56 0
a t) «5 127 12159 0
121 30 129 36 162 0
123 45 132 0 i6 5 0
126 0 J34 24 168 0
128 *5 136 48171 0
130 3 o *39 12 174 0
132 45 J4* 36,177 0
135 0 r44- •01180- 0
Cooole
Original from
mcia/ \srsnis midi lr I
Bar
stz A N P L X V S i r *R A T 1*0 N
■■■
■
■
■
—■ ,, , i i , . ■■
Semidi
krnal or
/bninoc­
turnal
Arches.
Space ojiSemi
one
lloufe
quar-
tile.
Smq.
h. m. |d. m.
' o
61
3°
30
12131
i 8|3 *
24I32
7
7
7
7 '
7
7
7
7
1
7
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
j8
0 8
8
9
13
42;33
4834
54(34
°|35
6 35
12 26
18:36
24
>
3°
36
142
48
54
Of
•6
12
iB
24
3°l
36
v42|
t48
137
37
3«
38
39
39
40
Sex-
tile.
* :
d. m. d.m. d. m.
Quin­
tile.
Qo
Quar*.
tiki
Trine.
d. m.
045 o|6o 0172
3° 45 45!6 i 0I73
046 3062 074
3°47 15^3 075
o 48 o|64 c76
3048 45^5 0)78
49 30:66 079
50 15167 0180
3°
O i1
s
3° 5 »
o
53°,
o
3°
o
3°
[52 3070 0*84
71 0)85
72 0I86
4°
4i
41
42
42
43
43
44
ol
45
68 081 36
69 0 8 2 48
56
°|57
3^57 45
o
12
2 4
36
19°
|9 i
|93
94
4896
0:97
!2J99
30
30
Sej'qui-
.qua­
drate. I
Sfq.
d. m.
Biquin­
tile.
Ll 4a
,
Bq.
m.
l53 15
54 °
54 45
55 3°
*5(75 0I90
3P
f 0
24,100 30
102 -iO
i ° 3 3 0
105 p
106 .30
108 o
5
12
24
120 o
122 O
0(124
126
128
l 3 ° ol
122 o
134 o
136 o
i35 o
Oppp-
fition.
d. mr d. m .
1 8 0 p
38
140 o
142 o
144 o
173 087 36 109 30446 o
174 08 8 4.8I
0)76 o
77 ol
58 3078 o
59 *579 ° m 48
|9»
9 *
93
4 K 1 1 1 1
o
12
24
36
196
54 44
°'45
3° . . ....
0 6 0 0^0 o
3 0 6 0 45 8i 0 9 7
061 3082 0.98
3062 15.83 ol
0 6 3 0 8 4 o
3° 63 45 85 °|
0 6 4 3086 jO
ro 6 5 1787 .0
0 6 6 088 o
. 3 0 6 6 4 5 8 9 p
c
12
24
199 '36
100 48
102 o
103 1:2
1 0 4 2 4 I
• 0 5 3 6
1 0 6 3 8
0 1 4 8 o
112 30 I5O O
114 0 1 5 2 O
l
u 5 30154 C
117 0 1 5 6 0
1J'8 30 158 o
120 0 1 6 0
121 30162 o
123 0 1 6 4 c
124:30166
126 0168
148
150 45
*53 0
*55 ‘5
157 3°
L59 45'17° 24
162 o 172 48
158 24
160 48
163 12
165 36
168
-4 4 4
137 15 146 24I183 p
139 30148 48186 oj
H 1 45:151 12 189
*44 0,153 36
146 15156
192
J95
198
I201
204
1207
c 210
i64 15
166 30
168 45
171 c
J73 15
*75 3°
a75 1 2
l 77 36
180 ol
182 24(228
21 2
216
219
222
225
184 48 231
187 12 234 o
l 77 45 l8 9 36237 °|
180 o 192 o 240 ~
182 15194 24243
184 30 196 48 2f6
186 45 199 12,249
189 0201 36 252
127 30(770 o'191 15204 0I255
129 0172 o 193^30206 24258 c
t3 ° ‘3°^74 0195 45208 #
I . 3 2 O 4 7 6 O I 9 8 0 2 1 1 1 , 2
*33 3Q178 0200 15213 3j
6
o\67 3090 0I108 0435__0 7 80 0202,30216 c
261
264 cj
267 (O
^70
■ Original from
M E M / v r \ t > l f Dl I P I I / " I I D P A P V
-5*3
O F A S T R O L Q Q Y .
A T a b x .
e of R ig h t A scensiqns.—
- N orth Latitude.
O 1 <
£ 3 4 5
V d. m. d’ ' m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
D O 0 359 37 359 13 358 49 358 25 35*8 1 357 37
1 O 55 O 32 O 8 359 44 359 20 358 56 358 32
2 I 5° 1 27 I 3 O 39 0 15 359 51 359 27
3 .2 45 2 22 I 58 1 34 1 10 0 46 O 22
,3 40 3 i-7 2 53 2 29 2 ;5 I 41 1 17
5 .-4 35 4 12 3 48 3 34 3 O 2 36 2 12
6 5 30 5 n
/ 4 43 4 *9 3 55 3 31 3 7
7 6 25 6 2 5 a8 5 i,4 4 5° 4 26 4 2
& 7 ?* ~ 6 57 6 33 6 9 5 45 5 21 4 57
9 8 l6 7 5-2 '1 28 •7 4 6 40 6 16 5 52
IO 9 U 8 47 8 23 7 59 7 35 7 11 6 47
11 10 6 9 42 9 18 8 55 8 3 1 8 7 7 43
12 11 2 10 38 IO 14 9 5i 9 27 9 3 8 39
*3 11 57 11 33 11 9 10 46 10 22 9 58 9 34
14 12 53 12 29 12 5 11 42 11 18 10 54 10 3°
*5 *3 4» *3 25 *3 1 1
! 12 38 12 *4 11 5° 11 26
j 6 14 44 14 20 13 57 *3 34 *3 IO 12 46 12 22
17 *5 40 *5 16 h 53 *4 30 *4 6 *3 42 *3 18
18 16 3 1 i6 12 *5 49 15 26 15 2 H 39 14 *5
17 35 ■7
.8 16 45 16 22 l 5 58 *5 35 15 11
20 18 27 t8~ 4 *7 4 1 ; J7 18 16 54 "16"3i 16 7
21 *9 23 *9 0 18 37 : 18 14 17 5 * 17 28 *7 4
22 ; 20 20 19 56 19 33 ; *9 11 18 48 18 25 18 1
23 | 21
16 20 53 20 30 ; 20 8 *9 45 *9 22 18 58
24 22 12 21 5° 21 27 21 5 20 42 2 0 *9 *9 55
25 23 .9 22 47 22 24 22 2 21 39 21 16 20 52
26 24 6 23 44 23 21 22 59 22 36 22 *3 21 50
27 -25 2 24 41 24 *9 23 57 23 34 23 11 22 48
28 25 59 125 38 25 16 24 4 4 24 3 1 24 9 23 46
29 26 57 | 2 6 35 ,26 13 25 5 i 25 29 25 7 24 44
3° 27 54 1 27 33 27 11 26 49 26 27 .26 5 ?5 42
Digitized by Gooale Original from
MCIA/ v n p t ' Dl ID I ir I I D D A R V
5 1 4 A N i l l u s t r a t i o n
A T able of R ight Ascensions.— Smith Latitude.
0 1 2 3 1 4 5 6
T d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
b .
m. d. m.
d-
m.
0 0 0 0 23 0 47 1 ' 11 1 .* 35 I 59 <2 23
1 0 55 1 18 1 42 2 6 ! 2 3° 2 54 3 18
2 1 50 2 13 2 37 3 1 '3 25 3 49 ’ 4 13
3 2 45 3 8 3 32 3 56 4
20 4 44 5 8
4 3 40 4 3
1
4 27
1 r■
-
4 5 i ! ri *5 5 39 6 3
5 4 35 4 5s 5 22 5 46 6 10 6 34 6 58
6 5 3° 5 54 6 18 6 42 7 6 7 3 ° 7 53
7 6 25 6 49 7 *3 7 37 8 1 8 25 8 48
8 7 21 7 44 8 8 8 32 8 56 9 20 9 43
9 8 16 8 40 9 4 9 28 9 5 1 10 15 10 38
10 9 11 9 35 9 59 10 23 10 46 11 10 11 33
11 10 6 10 30 10 54 11 18 11 41 12 5 12 28
12 11 2 11 25 11 49 12 J3 12 36 *3 0 '3 23
>3 11 57 12 20 12 44 13 8 13 3i 13 55 H 18
H 12 53 i3 16 l 3 39 14 3 14 26 14 5° *5 13
*5 *3 48 14 12 *4 35 H 58 15 21 15 45 16 8
16 14 44 *5 7 I 5 3° 15 53 16 16 16 40 J7 3
J7 J5 40 16 2 16 25 16 48 17 11 *7 35 *7 58
18 16 35 16 58 17 21 J7 44 18 7 18 3 ° 18 53
19 17 3 1 *7 54 18 J7 18 40 >9 2 19 25 19 48
20 18 27 18 5° r9 13 19 36 19 58 20 21 20 43
21 19 23 19 46 20 9 20 22 20 54 21 *7 21 39
22 20 20 20 42 21 5 21 28 21 50 22 12 22 34
23 21 16 21 38 22 1 22 24 22 46 23 8 23 30
24 22 12 22 35 22 57 23 20 23 42 24 4 24 26
25 23 9 23 3 1 23 43 24 16 24 38 25 0 25 21
26 24 6 24 28 24 50 25 12 25 34 25 56 26 l 7
27 25 2 25 25 25 47 26 9 26 3 o 26 52 27 13
28 25 59 26 22 26 43 27 5 27 26 27 48 28 9
29 26 57 27 *9 27 40 28 1 28 22 28 44 29 5
3° 27 54 28 16 28 37 28 58 29 19 29 40 3° 1
Digitized by Google Original from
RicuM v n o t ' d 1i d 11r 1i d d a p v
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T able of Right A scensions.— North Latitude.
O 1 2 3 ‘ 4 5 6
« d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
0 27 54 27 33 27 U 26 49 26 27 26 5 25 42 '
1 28 51 28 30 28 8 27 57 27 25 27 3 26 40
2 29 49 29 27 29 6 28 45 28 23 28 1 27 38
3 30 46 30 25 30 4 29 43 29 21 28 59 28 37
4 3 1 44 3 1 23 31 2 30 39 30 19 29 58 29 46
5 32 42 32 21 32 0 3 1 4 1 31 l8 3° 57 3° 35
6 33 4° 33 20 32 59 32 38 32 17 3 1 56 3 i 34
7 34 38 34 18 33 58 33 37 33 16 3 2 55 32 33
8 35 37 35 17 34 57 34 36 34 15 33 54 33 33
9 36 36 36 16 35 56 35 36 35 *5 34 54 34 33
IO 37 34 37 15 36 55 36 35 36 15 35 54 35 33
11 38 33 38 14 37 54 37 35 37 J5 36 54 36 33
12 39 33 39 *4 38 54 38 35 38 15 37 55 37 34
13 40 32 40 13 39 54 39 35 39 15 38 56 38 35
14 4 i 3 l 4 * 13 40 54 40 35 40 16 39 57 39 36
*5 42 31 42 13 4 i 54 4 i 36 41 17 40 58 40 38
16 43 3 1 43 *3 42 54 42 3 6 42 18 4 i 59 4 i 39
17 44 31 44 *3 43 55 43 37 43 19 43 0 42 40
18 45 3 i 45 J4 44 56 44 38 44 20 44 1 43 42
*9 46 32 46 14 45 57 45 39 45 21 45 3 44 44
20 47 32 47 15 46 58 46 40 46 23 46 7 45 46
21 48 33 48 16 47 59 47 42 47 25 47 5 46 49
22 49 34 49 17 49 0 48 44 48 27 48 9 47 52
23 5° 35 50 18 50 2 49 46 49 29 49 12 48 55
24 5 1 3 6 51 20 5 1 4 5° 48 5° 32 5 ° J5 49 58
25 52 38 52 22 52 6 5 1 5 i 5 1 35 51 18 5 i 2
26 53 40 53 24 53 9 52 54 52 38 52 22 52 6
27 54 42 54 27 54 12 53 57 53 4 2 53 26 53 10
28 55 44 55 29 5 5 ! 5 55 0 54 45 54 3° 54 J4
29 56 46 56 32 56 18 56 3 55 49 55 34 55 18
3° 1 57 48 57 35 57 21 57 7 56 53 56 38 56 23 J
No. 26. 6 K 3
i
Digitized by Go*, gle Original from
m c u / v n c ^ D i i m 1r 1 i d d a r v
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T able of R ight Ascensions.— South Latitude.
O 1 2 3 4 5 6
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
o 27 54 28 16 28 37 28 58 29 19 29 40 30 1
I 28 51 29 13 29 34 29 55 30 16 3° 37 3° 57
2 29 49 30 10 3° 3 i 3° 52 3 1 13 31 34 31 54
3 30 46 3 1 7 31 28 31 49 32 10 32 31 32 51
4 3 1 44 32 5 32 25 32 46 33 7 33 27 33 47
5 32 42 33 3 33 23 33 43 , 34 4 34 24 34 44
6 33 40 34 1 34 21 34 4 i 35 1 35 21 35 4 i
7 34 3 8 34 59 35 *9 35 39 35 58 36 18 36 38
8 35 37 35 57 36 17 3 ^ 37 36 56 37 15 37 35
9 3 6 36 36 56 37 15 37 35 37 54 38 13 38 32
io 37 34 37 54 38 13 38 33 38 52 39 11 39 29
11 38 33 38 53 39 12 39 3 l 39 5° 40 9 40 27
12 39 33 39 52 40 u 40 30 40 48 4 i 7 41 25
13 40 32 40 51 41 10 41 28 41 46 42 5 42 23
H 4 i 3 1 41 5° 42 9 42 27 42 45 43 3 43 2i
1
5 42 31 42 50 43 8 43 26 43 44 44 2 44 19
16 43 3 1 43 49 44 7 44 25 44 43 45 0 45 17 >
17 44 31 44 49 45 6 45 24 45 42 45 59 46 15
i8 45 3i 45 49 46 6 46 23 46 41 46 58 47 14
l 46 32 46 49 47 6 47 23 47 4° 47 57 48 13
20 47 32 47 49 48 6 48 23 48 39 48 56 49 12
21 48 33 48 50 49 6 49 23 49 39 49 55 50 11
22 49 34 49 50 50 6 5° 23 5° 3 j 50 54 51 10
23 5° 35 5° 5 i 5 ‘ 6 5 1 23 si 38 5 1 53 52 9
24 5 1 3 6 5 i 52 52 7 52 23 52 38 52 53 53 8
25 5'2 38 52 53 53 8 53 24 53 38 53 53 54 8
26 53 4° 53 55 54 9 54 24 54 38 54 53 55 7
27 54 42 54 56 55 11 55 25 55 39 55 53 56 7
28 55 44 55 58 56 12 56 26 56 40 56 54 57 7
29 56 46 57 0 57 13 57 27 57 4 i 57 54 58 7
3° 57 48 58 2 58 15 58 29 58 42 58 55 59 7
Google Original from
MCtA/ v n p t ' DI I P I ir I i p p a p v
5*7
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T a b l e of R i g h t A s c e n s i o n s . — North Latitude.
c I 4 i* (
n d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
C 57 48 57 35 57 21 57 7 56 53 56 38 ~5* 23
I 58 5 1 58 38 58 24 58 10 57 57 57 42 57 28 .
2 59 53 59 41. 59 27 59 *4 59 1 58 47 58 33
3 60 56 60 44 60 3 1 60 18 60 5 59 52 59 38
4 61 59
-
61 47 61 35 61 22 61 10 60 57 60 44
5 6 3 3 6z 5 1 62 39 62 27 62 *5 62 2 6l 5°
6 64 6 <
>
3 55 6 3 43 63 32 63 20 63 8 62 56
7 65 9 64 59 64 47 64 37 64 25 64 *3 64 2
8
66 *3 66 3 65 52 65 42 65 30 65 19 65 8
9 67 *7 67 7 66 57 66 47 66 36 66 25 66 14
IO 68 21 68 I I 68 2 67 52 67 42 67 3 * 67 21
11 69 25 69 16 69 7 68 57 68 48 68 38 68 28
12 7° 29 70 21 70 12 70 3 . 69 54 69 45 69 35
*3 7 1 34 7 1 26 7 1 *7 7 1 9 7 1 0 70 5 i 70 42
*4 72 38 72 3 * 72 22 72 *5 72 6 7 1 58 7 1 49
*5 73 43 73 36 73 28 73 21 73 *3 73 5 72 57
16 74 47 74 4 1 74 33 74 27 74 *9 74 12 74 4
*7 75 52 75 46 75 39 75 33 75 26 75 *9 75 12
18 76 57 76 5 * 76 45 76 39 76 33 76 27 76 20
*9 78 2 1 77 56 77 5 1 77 45 77 40 77 34 77 28
20 79 7 79 2 78 57 78 52 78 47 78 4 * 78 36
21 80 12 80 8 80 3 79 59 79 54 79 49 79 44
22 81 17 81 *3 81 9 81 5 81 1 80 56 80 52
23 82 22 82 18 82 *5 82 11 82 8 82 4 82 0
24 83 38 83 24 83 21 83 18 83 *5 83 11 83 9
25 84 33 84 30 84 27 84 25 84 22 84 20 84 *7
26 8c 28 85 3 6 85 33 ! 85 32 85 29 85 28 85 25
27 86 .44 86 42 86 40 j 86 39 86 37 86 36 86 34
28 87 49 87 49 87 46 j 87 46 87 44 87 44 87 42
29 88 55 88 55 88 53 ! 88 53 88 52 88 52 88 5 1
1 3° 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0
Google Original from
mcwu v n o k ' di m i l r i
518 A N I L L U S T R A T
A T a b le of R i g h t Ascensions,—-Sooth Latitude.
0 1 2 3 4 5
6 I
f
n d. m. d• m • d. m. d. m. •d. m. d. m. d. m.
o 57 43 58 2 58 15 58 29 58 42 58 55 59 7
1 58 51 59 4 59 17 59 3° 59 43 59 55 60 7
2 59 53 60 6 60 19 60 31 . 60 44 60 56 61 8
3 60 56 61 8 61 21 61 33 61 46 61 57 62 9
4 61 59 62 11 62 23 62 35 62 48 62 58 63 9
5 63 3 63 H 63 25 6 3 37 63 50 6 3 59 64 10
6 64 6 64 17' 64 28 64 39 64 52 65 1 65 ir
7 65 9 65 20 6 5 3 1 65 4 1 65 54 66 2 66 12
8 66 13 66 23 66 34 66 44 66 56 67 4 67 13
9 67 17 67 27 67 37 67 46 67 58 68 6 68 15
lO 68 21 68 30 68 40 68 49 68 59 69 7 69 16
11 69 25 69 34 69 43 69 52 70 1 70 9 70 17
12 70 29 70 38 70 46 7° 55 7 1 3 71 11 71 19
13 7 1 34 71 42 7 1 49 7 i 58^ 72 5 72 -13 72 21
H 72 38 72 46 72 53 73 1 73 8 73 i 5 73 23
* 5 73 43 73 53 73 57 74 4 74 74 18 74 25
16 74 47 74 54 75 1 75 7 75 14 75 20 75 27
l l 75 52 75 58 76 5 76 11 76 17 76 23 76 29
18 76 57 77 3 77 9 77 15 77 20 77 26 77 31
19 78 2 78 7 78 13 78 18 78 23 78 28 78 33
20 79 7 79 *2 79 17 79 21 79 26 79 31 79 35
21 80 12 80 17 80 21 80 25 80 29 80 34 80 38
22 81 17 81 21 81 25 81 28 81 32 81 36 81 40
23 82 22 82 25 82 29 82 32 82 35 82 39 82 42
24 83 28 83 30 83 33 83 36 83 39 83 42 83 45
2S 84 33 84 35 84 37 84 40 84 42 84 45 84 47
26 85 38 85 40 85 4 1 85 44 85 45 85 48 85 49
27 86 44 86 45 86 46 86 48 86 49 86 51 86 52
28 87 49 87 50 87 5° 87 52 87 52 87 54 87 54
29 88 j j 88 55 88 55 88 56 88 56 88 57 88 57
3° 90 O 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0
Digitized by Google Original from
k i r u u v n o k ' d i i d i i r i i q d a d v
5 X
9
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T able of R ight A s c e n s i o n s . — North Latitude.
(D
1
2 3 4 < C
23 d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
O 9° 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0
1 9 1 5 9i 6
91 7 9 X 7 9 1 7 9 X 8 9 X 8
2 92 9 92 12 92 14 92 x4 92 15 92 16 92 18
3 93 16 93 18 93 20 93 2° 93 23 93 24 93 26
4 94- 22 94 24 94 27 94 28 94 30 94 32 94 35
5 9; 27 95 30 95 33 95 35 95 38 95 40 95 43
6 96 32 96 26 96 39 96 42 96 45 96 48 96 50
7 97 38 97 4 2 97 45 97 49 97 5 2 97 56 O
8 98 43 98 47 98. 5° 98 55 99 0 99 4 99 8
9 99 48 99 52 99 57 100 0 100 7 100 12 100 16
IO 100 53 IO
O 58 101 3 IOI 8 101 14 IOI x9 lor 24
I 1 101 58 102 4 102 9 102 x5 102 20 102 26 102 52
12 103 3 103 9 103 x5 103 20 xo3 37 103 33 103 40
*3 104 8 104 14 104 20 104 27 104 34 104 40 104 48
14 105 13 i °5 x9 xo5 27 xo5 33 xo5 40 105 48 105 56
x5 106 17 106 24 106 33 IOO 39 106 47 IOO 55 107 3
16 107 22 107 29 107 38 107 43 107 53 108 2 108 9
17 108 26 108 34 108 43 108 53 108 59 109 9 109 18
18 109 ,30 106 39 109 48 x°9 57 110 5 n o x5 n o 25
x9 n o 35 I IO 44 I IO 53 111 3 111 12 i n 22 i n 32
20 111 39 111 49 111 58 112 8 112 18 112 29 1x2 35
21 I 12 43 112 53 113 3 xx3 13 x l 3 24 1x3 35 ri3 46
22 xx3 47 " 3 57 114 8 114 18 114 30 114 40 114 52
^3 H 4 5 1 x l5 0 115 x3 X15 23 1x5 35 IX5 47 1x5 58
24 1x5 54 116 5 116 17 116 28 ll6 40 I l6 52 XI7 4
25 116 57 117 9 117 21 1x7 33 117 46 u 7 58 n 8 10
26 118 0 118 x3 118 25 118 38 118 55 119 3 119 16
27 1x9 4 119 16 119 29 119 42 119 55 120 8 120 22 ,
28 120 7 120 x9 120 33 120 46 120 59 121 23 121 27
29 121 9 121 22 12 1 36 121 5° 122 3 122 18 122 32
3° 122 12 122 25 122 39 122 53 I23 7 123 22 123 37
No. 26. 6 L 3
Original from
ME\AJ Dl I R I i r I I R D A R V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T a b l e of R i g h t A s c e n s i o n s . — South Latitude.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1
23 | d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
o 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0
I 9 1 5 91 5 9 1 5 9 > 4 91 4 9 i 3 9 1 0
2 92 9 92 10 92 9 92 8 92 8 92 6 92 6
3 93 16 93 *5 93 14 93 12 93 9 93 9 93 8 ;
4 94 22 94 20 94 19 94 l6 94 *5 94 12 94 9
5 95 27 95 25 95 23 95 20 95 18 95 *5 95 *3
6 96 32 96 30 96 27 96 24 96 20 96 18 96 *5
7 97 38 97 35 97 3° 97 28 97 25 97 20 97 18
8 98 43 98 39 98 35 98 32 98 28 98 24 98 20
9 99 48 99 43 99 39 99 35 99 3° 99 26 99 22
10 IOO 53 IOO 38 100 43 100 89 100 34 100 29 too 25
11 IOI 58 101 53 101 47 toi 42 101 37 IOI 32 IOI 27
12 103 3 102 57 102 5° 102 45 102 40 102 34 102 29
*3 104 8 104 2 IO3 55 103 49 103 43 103 37 IO3 3°
14 105 *3 105 6 104 59 104 52 104 46 104 40 IO4 33
*5 106 *7 106 10 xo6 3 105 56 io 5 49 io 5 42 105 35
16 107 22 IO7 *4 107 7 106 59 106 52 106 45 106 37
' 17 108 26 108 18 108 9 108 2 107 55 107 47 107 39
18 109 3 i IO9 22 109 14 109 5 108 57 108 49 108 40
x9 I 10 35, I IO 26 110
17
110 8 110 0 109 5 1 109 43
2° H I 39 I 1 I 3 ° 111 20 111 9 111 2 I IO 53 I 10 44
21 112 43 112 33 112 23 112 13 112 4 I I I 54 111 45
22 U 3 47 T13 37 l l 3 26 H 3 16 123 6 I 12 56 112 47
2 3 114 5 1 114 40 114 29 114 19 114 8 1J3 58 1J3 48
24 1J5 54 115 43 u 5 32 ” 5 20 115 10 114 59 114 49
25 116 57 116 46 116 35 116 23 116 12 116 0 “ 5 5°
26 118 0 117 49 " 7 37 117 25 117 M 117 2 116 5°
27 n 9 4 118 5° 118 39 118 27 118 J5 118 3 117 52
28 120 7 119 54 n 9 40 i x9 29 119 l6 119 4 118 52
29 121 9 I20 56 120 43 120 30 120 17 120 5 n 9 53
3° 122 12 121 58 121 45 121 3 ° 121 -l8 I2 1 5 120 53
'»»Google Original from
m c i a / v n p t ' D i i m ir i i d r a r v
52‘
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T a b l e of R i g h t A s c e n s i o n s . — North Latitude.
1 O 1 2 3 4 5 6 1
1 51
d. m. d. m . d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
1 c 122 12 I22 25 122 39 122 53 *23 7 123 22 123 37
1 I 123 *4 123 25 123 42 123 57 **24 9 124 26 124 42
1 2 124 16 I24 30 I24 45 *25 0 *25 *5 *25 3 ° *25 46
1 3 I25 is *25 33 *25 48 126 3 126 18 126 34 126 5°
1 4
126 20 126 36 126 5° 127 6 127 22 127 38 127 54
5 127 22 ,2 7 38 127 54 (128 9 128 25 128 42 128 58
6 128 24 128 40 128 56 129 12 129 28 129 45 130 2
7 129 25 129 42 I 29 5 8 *30 *4 130 30 130 48 *3 * 5
1 8 130 26 *30 43 *3* O j*3 * l6 *3 * 33 *3 * 50 132 8
9
*3 * 27 *3 * 44 132 O *32 18 *32 35 132 53 *33 11
1 IO 132 28 *32 45 *33 2 *33 20 *33 37 *33 55 *34 *4
11 *33 28 *33 4 6 *34 3 *34 21 *34 39 *34 57 *35 16
I 12 *34 29 *34 47 *35 4 *35 22 *35 40 *35 59 136 l8
*3 *35 29 *35 47 *36 5 136 23 136 40 ‘37 0 *37 20
*4 136 29 *36 47 *37 6 *37 24 *37 42 *3 8 1 *38 21
15
*37 2 9 *37 47 *38 6 *3 8 24 *38 43 *39 2 *39 22
16
*38
1
29 *38 47 *39 6 *39 25 *39 44 140 3 140 24
17 *39 28 *39 47 140 6 140 25 *4° 45 141
4 1
141 25
18 140 28 140 46 *41 6 141 25 *4 * 45 142 5 1142 26
*9 141 27 141 46 142 6 142 25 *42 45 *43 6 :
!*43 27
I 20 142 26 *4 2 45 *43 5 *43 25 *43 45 *44 6 ‘44 27
1 21 *43 25 *43 44 *44 4 *44 24 *44 45 ‘45 6 ‘45 27
1 22 *44 23 *44 43 *45 3 *45 24 *45 45 146 6 146 27
23
*45 22 *45 42 146 2 146 23 *46 44 ‘47 5 *47 27
1 24
146 20 146 40 *47 0 *47 22 *47 43 148 4 148 26
25 *47 18 *47 39 148 0 148 20 148 42 ‘49 3 *49 25
1 26 1
148 16 *4 8 37 :148 58 *49 *9 149 41 :150 2 J50 24
1 27 1
'49 *4 :
*49 35 ;'49 56 *5° 18 :*50 39 1
' 5 * 1 :‘5 * 23
I 28 1
'5° 12 J
' 5° 33 1
' 5° ,54 1
' 5 * *5 1
‘5 * 37 1
‘5 * 59 *
152 •
20
1 29 1
'5 * 9 ]
15* 30 i' 5* .52 1
' 52 *3 1
'52 35 1
[52 57 1
'53 '22
II 3° *
'5 2 6 1
:52 27 ]152 49 1
'53 9 ‘'53 33 *
'53 55 1
‘54 l8 1
Digitized by Goosle Original from
MDIA/ v n c f c ' Dl IDI i r I ID
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T able of R i g h t A s c e n s i o n s . —-South Latitude.
r ”
, 0 L I
1 •
3 | 4 . 5
0 '1
I ----- -
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d 1
m . d. m. d. m.
Q 122 12 121 58 121 45 121 3 2 121 18 121 5 120 53
1 123 *4 123 0 I22 47 I22 33 122 *9 122 6 121 S3
2 I 24 l 6 124 2 123 48 123 34 123 20 123 6 122 53
3 *25 *9 125 3 124 49 124 35 124 20 124 7 123 S3
4 125 20 126 5 125 5* *25 36 *25 22 125 7 *24 53
5 126 22 127 7 126 52 126 36 126 22 126 7 *25 52
6 128 24 128 8 127 53 *27 37 127 22 127 7 126 52
7 129 25 129 9 128 54 128 37 128 22 128 7 127 50
8 130 26 130 9 129 54 [29 37 129 22 129 6 128 50
9 *3* 27 ‘3 * 9 *3 ° 54 *3° 37 130 20 130 5 129 49
io I32 28 132 10 *3 ! 54 *3 * 37 *3 * 20 *3 * 4 *3° 4 »
11 133 28 133 10 132 54 132 37 132 20 132 3 *3* 47
12 134 29 *34 11 *33 54 *33 37 *33 *9 *33 2 132 46
*3 135 29 *35 11 *34 54 *34 36 *34 18 *34 O *33 45
*4 136 20 136 11 *35 53 *35 35 *35 *7 *35 O *34 43
*5 137 29 *37 10 *3 6 52 *36 34 *36 16 *35 5« *35 4 o
16 138 29 138 10 *37 5* *37 33 *37 *5 *36 57 *36 39
*7 139 28 *39 9 *38 50 *38 32 138 14 *37 55 *37 37
C
i
18 140 27 140 8 *39 49 *39 30 *39 *3 *3« 53 *38 35
19 141 27 141 7 140 48 140 29 140 9 *39 5° *39 33
20 142 26 *42 6 *41 27 141 27 *4 * 8 140 49 140 30
21 *43 24 *43 4 142 25 142 25 142 6 *4 * 47 *41 28
22 144 23 *44 3 *43 23 *43 23 *43 4 142 45 142 25
23 *45 22 *45 1 *44 21 144 20 *44 2 *43 42 *43 22
24 146 20 *45 59 *45 39 *45 *9 *44 59 *44 39 144 *9
25 *47 18 *46 57 *46 37 146 17 *45 56 *45 36 *45 16
26 148 16 *47 55 *47 35 *47 *4 *46 53 *46 33 146 *3
27 149 H 148 53 *48 32 148 9 *47 5° *47 39 *47 9
28 150 12 *49 5° *49 29 149 8 148 47 148 26 148 6
29 *5 * 9 *5° 47 150 26 *5° 5 *49 44 149 23 149 3
30 *52 6 *5 * 44 *5 * 23 *5 * 2 150 40 150 20 149 59
''
9<
|J
»Google Original from
m pu/ v n q y di im i r i i q r a r v
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 523
A T a b l e of R i g h t A scensi ons.—North Latitude.
c> 1
r
I 3 4
1
-
( 6
n d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d .
1
n i .
0 ‘5 2
6 1 5 2 2 7
* 5 2 4 9 J53 1 0 153 33 j ' S 3 5 5 *54 1 8
1 '53 4 *53 2 6
*53 4 7 154 9 154 3 ° *54 53 155 1 6
2 *54 O 1 5 4 2 2 ‘ 5 + 44 155 6 155 2 9 4 5 5 5 °
1 5 6
*4
3 >54 5 8 *55 *9 *55 4 0 > 5 6 3 I 5 6 2 6 1 5 6 49 *57 1 2
4 *55 54 1 5 6 1 6 j56 39 *57 O l S7 2 4
157 4 7
1 5 8 1 0
5 1 5 6 5 0 *57 *3 157 36 J57 5 8
1 5 8 2 0 1 5 8 44 i |9 8
6
l S7 4 8 •58 1 0 ‘58 33 * 5 8 55 1159 1 8 159 4 0 l 6 0
5
v
1 5 8 4 4 *59 7 159 3 0 J59 5 2 i
i
1 6 0 15 1 6 0 3 8 l 6 l 2
8 159 4 0 1 6 0
,4 1 6 0 2 7 1 6 0 49 ;
1 6 1 1 2 1 6 1
3 5
l 6 l
59
9 1 6 0
37 l 6 l O . 6 1
2 3 1 6 1 4 6 j 1 6 2 9 1 6 2 3 2 1 0 2 5 6
1 0 1 6 1 33 1 6 1 5 6 1 6 2 19 1 6 2 4 2 103 6 1 6 3 2 9
1^3 53
« > .
1 6 2 2 9 1 6 2
5 2
1 6 3 1 5 1 6 3 3 8 1 6 4 2 1 6 4 2 5 i64 49
1 2 ! > 6 3 2 c 1 6 3 4 8 J
l
1 6 4 1 0 1 6 4 3 4 1 6 4 5 8 1 6 5 2 0 1 6 5 45
1 3 1 6 4 2 0 1 6 4 4 4
l65 7 1 6 5 3 0 l65 54 1 6 6 1 8 1 6 6 4 2
1 4 i65 l 6 165 4 0 1 6 6 3 1 6 6 2 6 l 6 6 50 1 6 7 1 4 1 6 7 3 8
l 5 1 6 6 J 2 1 6 6
35 1 6 6 59 j 1 6 7 2 2 1 6 7 4 6 1 6 8 I O 1 6 8 34
1 6 1 6 7
7
I 6 7 3 0 1 6 7 55 !
1 6 8
II
1 8 1 6 8 4 2
1 6 9 6 1 6 9 3 0
*7 1 6 8 3
1 6 8 2 7 1 6 8
5°
1 6 9 1 4 1 6 9 3 8 1 7 0 2 1 7 0 2 0
1 8 1 6 8 5 8 i 6 9 2 3 1 6 9 4 6 1 7 0 9 >7 ° 33 ■70 57 1 7 1 2 0
1 9 i 69 54 1 7 0 1 8 1 7 0 4 2 I 7 !
5 1 7 1 2 9 1 7 1 53 1 7 2
X7
2 0 1 7 ° 4 9 1 7 1 J3 »74 37 1 7 2 O 1 7 2
25 1 7 2 49 ‘73 *3
2 1 1 7 1 4 4 1 7 2 8 ' 1 7 2 3 2 !
1 7 2 5 6
*73 2 0 i 73 44 ‘7 4 8
2 2 1 7 2
3 9 *73 3 x73 2 7 :
4 7 3 5 ° *74 15
1 7 4 39 175 3
23 >73 3 5 173 58 174 2 2 ‘7 4 4 ° i *75 1 0 l75 3 4 *75 5 5
2 4 3 7 4 3° !i7 4 53 *75 ‘7 175 4 0 1 7 6
5 1 7 6 2 9 176 53
2 5 *75 2 5 4 7 5 4 8 1 2 .
<7 6 36 J77 0 1 7 7 2 4 ‘77 4 7
2 6 ! 1 7 6 2 0 : « 7 6 4 3 *77 7 ‘77 3 ° 177 5 6
. 7 8 1 9 1 7 8 43
2 7
1
>77
■
15 4 7 7 38 1 7 8 2 1 7 8 2 6 J1 7 8 5 0 179 1 4 179 3*8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ - . 1
2 8 1 7 8 I O 1 7 8 33 >7 8 <7 1 7 9 2 0 1 7 9 45 1 S 0 9 1 8 0 33
2 9 ‘79 5 4 7 9 2 8 J79 5 2
1 8 0 1 6 1 S 0 4 0 1 8 1 4 1 8 1 2 8
3°
1 8 0 0 i I ' O 2 3_ 1 8 0 47 1 8 1 1 0 1 8 1
3 5 1 8 1 59 1 8 2 2 3 _
N o . 2 6 . 6 M 2
Google Original from
V n D t ' Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
A T a b l e of R i g h t . A s c e n s i o n s . — South Latitude.
O x 2 3 4 5 6i
n
R d. m. d. m. d. 1
u. d. 1
m. d. 1
m. d. m. d. m.
O l i 2 6 ‘5 1 44 ‘5 1 23 ‘5 1 2 ‘5° 40 ‘5° 20 ‘ 49 59
i 53 4 >52 40 ‘52 2'0 ‘ 51 59 ‘5 1 38 ‘5 ‘ 16 ‘ 5° 55
2 II54 O *53 38 ‘53 >7 ‘52 55 ' 52 34 ‘52 12 ‘ 5 ‘ 5 ‘
3 i154-
-- -1
58 ‘ 54 35 ‘54 ‘ 3 ‘53 40 ‘53 30 ‘ 53 8 ‘52 47
4 55 54 ‘55 32 ‘ 55 10 ‘ 54 48 ‘ 54 26 ‘ 54 4 ‘ 53 43
5 156 50 ‘5^ 29 ‘ 56 5 ‘ 55 44 ‘ 55 22 ‘ 55 0 ‘ 54 39
6 ‘57 48 157 25 ‘ 57 3 ‘56 40 ‘56 i 3 ‘55 56 ‘55 34
7 158 44 i58 22 ‘ 57 59 ‘57 36 ‘ 57 ‘4 ‘ 56 52 ‘56 3°
8 1
*59 40 159 18 158 55 158 32 .58 IO ‘57 48 ‘57 26
9 160 37 160 14 ‘ 59 50 ‘ 59 28 ‘ 59 6 ‘ 58 43 ‘58 20
IO l6l 52 l6 l IO l6o 47 160 24 160 2 ‘ 59 39 ‘59 *7
11 1162 29 162 6 l6l 43 161 20 160 58 160 35 160 I 2
j
163 25 163 2 162 39 162 16 161 53 16i 3° 161 7
‘ 3 164 20 163 58 163 35 163 12 162 49 162 25 162 2
14 ‘65 16 (64 53 164 30 164 7 163 44 163 20 162 57
15 166 12 165 48 165 25 165 2 164 39 164 ‘5 ‘63 52
1
167 7 166 44 166 20 ‘65 57 ‘65 34 165 10 164 47
‘7 168 3 167 40 167 17 166 52 166 29 166 5 165 42
18 168 58 168 35 168 12 167 47 167 24 167 0 166 37
'9 169 54 169 3° 169 7 168 43 168 ‘ 9 167 55 167 32
20 170 49 170 26 170 2 169 38 169 ‘4 168 5° 168 27
21 171 44 171 20 170 57 170 33 170 9 169 45 169 22
22 172 39 172 l6 171 52 ‘7 ‘ 28 ‘7 ‘ 4 170 40 ‘7° ‘ 7
23 l73 35 •73 10 172 47 172 23
i l l
59 17 ‘ 35 17 ‘ 12 1
24 '74 30 ‘74 6 ‘73 42 '73 18 ‘72 54 172 3° 172 7
25 ‘75 25 ‘75 2 '74 38 ‘74 ‘4 ,‘ 73 5° ‘73 26 ‘73 2
26 176 20 ‘75 57 ‘ 75 33 '75 9 ‘ 74 45 ‘74 20 ‘73 57
27 *77 ‘ 5 176 52 176 .28 j‘76 4 ,‘75 40 ‘ 75 16 ‘74 52
28 ,78 JO '77 47 .77 33 !‘76 59 j‘76 35 j‘76 JO ‘75 47
29 179 5 178 42 .78 18 177 54 177 3° ‘77 6 176 4 2
3° 180 0 379 37 '79 J 3 .178 49 178 25 1178 0 ‘77 37.
b
yGoogle Original from
M C I A / V n R t ' Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
$2S
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T able of R ig h t Ascensions.— North Latitude.
c) I /I I 4 i5 <
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
C 180 0 180 23 180 47 181 10 181 35 181 59 182 23
I 180 55 181 18 l8l 42 182 6 182 3° 182 54 183 18
2 l8l 5° 182 13 182 37 183 0 183 25 i8 3 49 184 13
3 182 45 183 8 183 32 183 56 184 eo 184 44 i8 5 8
4 183 40 184 3 184 27 184 5° 185 15 ■185 89 186 3 t
5 184 35 184 58 185 22 185 46 186 10 • 186 34 186 58 ;
>
6 185 3° 185 54 186 18 186 42 187 6 ,8:7 3° 187 53 ,
7 186 25 186 49 187 *3 187 37 188 0 188 25 188 48 f
8 187 20 187 44 188 8 188 32 188 56 189 20 1
189 43
9 188 l6 188 39 189 3 189 27 189 5° 190 ‘5 190 3 8
IO 189 IO 189 34 189 58 190 22 190 46 191 10 191 33
11 190 6 190 29 190 53 191 17 i 9i 40 192 5 192 28 ,
12 191 2 191 25 191 48 192 *3 192 3 6 . ‘93 0 193 23
13 191 57 192 20 192 43 193 8 193 3° 193 55 194 18
H 192 53 193 16 193 39 194 3 194 26 194 5° 195 13
15 193 48 194 12 194 35 194 58 195 20 J95 45 196 8
16 194 44 195 7 195 3o 195 53 196 l6 196
!
40 197 3 !:
17 195 40 196 2 196 25 190 48 197 10 197 35 197 5 8 !
:
18 196 35 196 58 197 20 197 44 198 7 198 30 198 53 L
19 197 30 197 54 198 17 198 40 199 2 199 25 199 48 ,
20 198 27 198 5° 199 13 199 36 199 58 200 20 200 43 1
21 199 23 199 46 200 9 200 32 200 54 201 l6 1
201 39
22 200 20 200 42 2CI 5 201 28 201 50 202 12 202 34
23 201 .16 201 38 202 1 i
1
202 24 202 46 203 8 203 3°
24 202 12 202 35 202 57 |203 20 203 42 204 4 2O4 26
25 203 9 203 30 2O3 53 204 l6 204 38 z0S 0 205 20
26 04 6 204 2.9 204 5° |205 I 2 205 34 205 56 206 *7 1
27 205 2 2°5 25 205 47 206 9 206 30 206 52 207 16
28 205 59 206 22 206 43 207 0 207 26 207 48 208 9
29 206 57 107 19 207 40 .208 5 208 22 208 44 209 5
1 30 207 54 2C.8 16 208 37 ;208 58 i C 9 19 209 40 ‘210 0 '
Digitized by Google Original from
vriRk' Diim ir i i r p a r v
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T able of R ig h t AscENSiovs.^Sonth Latitude.
i t
1
1 0 1 A
I 5 4 5 6
i »
•- —
d. m. d. m- d. m. a. tn. d. tn. d. m. d. m .
o 180 0 179 37 179 *3 *78 49 178 25 178 0 *77 37
1 180 55 180 32 180 8 179 44 179 20 178 59 178 32
2 181 5° 181 27 181 3 180 39 180 *5 *79 5° 179 27
3 182 45 182 22 181 58 181 34 181 10 180 46 150 22
4 183 40 18317 182 53 182 29 I182 5 181 40 181 *7
5 184 35 184 12 183 48 183 24 !*83 0 152 36 182 12
6 185 30 185 7 184 43 18419 i'83 55 '83 3° 183 7
7 186 25 186 2 185 38 18514 184 50 184 26 184 2
8 187 20 186 ?7 186 33 186 9 185 45 '85 20 *84 57
9 188 l 6 187 C
2 187 28 187 4 186 40 186 l6 185 52 i
10 189 IO 188 47 188 23 l8 7 59 *87 35 187 10 186 47
11 190 6 189 42 189 18 188 55 188 3° 188 7 lS7 43
12 191 2 I90 38 190 *4 189 50 189 27 189 3 188 39
*3 191 57 191 33 191 9 190 46 190 22 189 58 **>9 34
H 192 53 192 29 192 5 191 42 !9 i 18 190 54 190 30
i5 *93 4» 193 25 '93 0 192 38 192 *4 191 50 191 26
16 194 44 194 20 *93 57 '93 34 *93 10 192 46 192 22
'7 *95 40 *95 (6 '94 53 *94 3° 194 6 '93 42 '93 18
18 *96 35 196 12 '95 49 '95 26 *95 2 194 39 '94 l 5
19 197 30 197 8 196 45 196 22 '95 58 *95 35 *95 10
20 198 27 198 4 197 40 197 18 196 54 196 30 196 7
21 199 23 *99 0 *98 37 198 *4 197 5° ’ 197 28 *97 4
22 200 20 '
^ I199 56 '99 33 '99 10 198 48 198 25 198 0
23 201 I6 200 53 200 30 200 8 199 45 199 22 195 58
24 202
1
12 201 5° 201 27 201 5 200 42 2C0 *9 199 55
25 203 9 202 47 202 24 202 2 201 39 201 16 200 52
26 204 6 203 44 203 20 202 59 202 36 202 *3 201 5°
27 (205 2 204 40 204 *9 203 57 203 34 203 10 202 48
28 j205 59 205 38 205 l6 204 54 204 3° 204 9 203 46
29 206 57 206 35 206 J3 205 5° 205 29 205 7 204 44
O
O
57 207 33 207 10 206 49 206 27 206 5 205 42
Digitized by Gocsle Original from
Mcwi/ vriP v di mi ir i i r d a d v
5*7
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T arle of R ig h t A scensions.— North Latitude.
1— ■
----- ‘
O I £ 3
1 4
5 6
d . i n . d . m . d . m . d . m . | d . m . d . m . d . m .
0 2 0 7 5 4 203 1 6 2 0 8
3 7
2 0 8 5 8 2 0 9 J9 2 0 9 4 0 2 1 0 1
1 2 0 8
5 1
2 0 9
*3 2 0 9 3 4 2 0 9 5 5
2 1 0 1 6 2 1 0
3 7
2 1 0
5 7
2 2 0 9 4 9 2 1 0 IO 2 1 0
3 1
2 1 0
5 2
2 1 1
J3 2 1 I 3 4 2 1 1
5 4
3 2 1 0 4 6 2 1 1 7
2 1 1 2 8 2 1 1
49 2 1 2 1 0 212 3 1
2 1 2
5 1
4 a n 4 4 2 1 2
5 2 1 2 2 5 2 1 2 4 6 2 1 3 7 2 1 3 27 2 1 3 4 7
5 2 4 2 4 1
2 1 3
3 2 1 3 23 2 1 3 43 . 2 1 4 4 2 1 4 2 4 214 4 4
6 2 1 3 4 0 2 1 4 1 2 1 4 2 1 2 ! 4 41 12 1 5 1 2 1 5 2 1 2 1 5 4 1
7
2 1 4 3 8 2 1 4 59 215 2 9 215 3 9 : 2 I 5 5 8
2 1 6 1 8 210 3 8
8 215 37 2 1 5 57 2 1 6 1 7
2 1 6
37 ;
2 1 6 5 6 2 1 7 1 5
2ll 35
9 2 1 6 3 6 2 l 6 5 6 2 1 7 1 5 21 7 35 2 1 7 54 2 1 8
*3 2 1 8
3 1 ,
I O 2 1 7 34 2 1 7 54 2 1 8 13 2 1 8
33 2 1 8
5 1
2 1 9 1 1 2 1 9 2 9
I 1 2 l 8
33
2 1 8
53 2 1 9 11 2 1 9 3 1 2 1 9 5 0 2 2 0
9 2 2 0 2 7
1 2 1 2 1 9 33 2 1 9 5 i 2 2 0 u 2 2 0 3 ° 2 2 0 4 8 2 2 1
7
2 2 1
2 5
13 2 2 0
3 i
2 2 0
5 1 2 2 1 1 0 2 2 1 2 8 2 2 1 4 6 2 2 2 5 2 2 2 2 3
1 4 2 2 1 3 i
2 2 1
5 °
2 2 2 9 2 2 2 27 2 2 2 45 2 2 3
3 2 2 3 2 1
J5 2 2 2 3 1
2 2 2
5° 2 2 3 8 I[
2 2 3 2 6 2 2 3 4 4 2 2 4 1 2 2 4 1 9
1 6 2 2 3
3 1
2 2 3
49 2 2 4 7 j
[ 2 2 4
2 5 2 2 4 43 2 2 5 0 2 2 5
*7
1 7 2 2 4 3 1
2 2 4 4 9 2 2 5
6 j
2 2 5 2 4 2 2 5 4 1 2 2 5 59 2 2 6
*5
1 8 2 2 5
3 1
2 2 5 49 2 2 6 6 2 2 6 23 2 2 0 4 i
2 2 6 5 8 2 2 7 1 4
*9 2 2 6 3 1
2 2 6 49 2 2 7 6 2 2 7
2 3
2 2 7 4 0 227 57 2 2 8 1 3
2 0 j 2 2 7 31 2 2 7 49 2 2 8 6 ! 2 2 S
| 2 3
2 2 8 39 2 2 8 5 6 2 2 9 I 2
2 1 j2 2 8
33 2 2 8
49 2 2 9 6 2 2 9
2 3 2 2 9 39 2 2 9 55 2 3 0 1 1
2 2 ;2 2 9 34 2 2 9 5 0 2 3 0 6 2 3 0 2 3 2 3 0
38
2 3 0 54 2 3 1 1 0
2 3 2 3 0 35 2 3 O
5 i
2 3 1 6 2 3 I 2 3 2 3 1 3 8
2 3 1 53 2 3 2 9
2 4 2 3 1 3 6 2 3 1
5 i
2 3 2 7 2 3 2 2 3 2 3 2 3 8
2 3 2 53 2 33 8
8
25 2 3 2 33 2 3 2
53 233 8 2 33 2 4 2 33 3 8 233 53 23 4
2 6
233 4 ° 2 3 3 55 234 9 2 3 4 2 4 2 3 4 3 8 2 34 53 235
/ 7
2 7 2 3 + 4 1 2 3 4 5 7 235 1 1 235 2 5 235 39 235 53 2 3 6
7
2 8 235 43 235 5 8 2 3 6 *3 2 3 6 2 6 2 3 6 4 0 2 36 54 2 37
r
\ 7
2 9
I 3 0
2 3 6 4 6
237 4 8
237
2 3 8
0
1
-
2 3 7
2 3 8
J 4
15
2 3 7 2 7
2 3 8 2 9
2 3 7 4 i
2 3 8 4 1
237 54
2 3 8 55
238
239
7
7 .
No. 26. 6 N 3
Digitized by Google Original from
v n c k ' D i i m 1r 1 i r r a r v
A T able of R i g h t A scensions.— South Latitude.
O 1 2 3 4 15
%
6
' W
l d. m. d. m. d. m. d. rn. d. m. d. m. d. m.
o 207 54 207 33 207 11 206 49 206 27 206 5 205 41 ■
I 208 5 1 •208 30 208 8 207 47 207 25 207 3 206 40 :
2 209 49 209 27 209 6 208 45 208 23 208 1 207 38
' 3 ‘
210 46 '210 25 210 4 209 43 209 21 208 59 2c8 37
4 211 44 21 I 25 21 I I 210 41 210 19 209 58 209 36
5 212 41 212 21 212 0 211 39 211 18 210 57 210 35
6 .213 40 213 20 212 59 212 3s 212 17 211 56 211 34
7 214 38 214 18 213 58 213 37 213 16 212 55 212 33
8 "
215 37 215 *7 214 57 214 36 214 15 213 54 213 33
9 216 36 216 l6 215 56 215 36 215 15 214 54 214 33
.! 10 217 34 217 J5 216 55 216 35 2l6 15 2 IS 54 215 33
11 218 33 218 14 217 54 217 35 217 15 216 54 216 33
12 219 33 219 14 218 54 218 35 218 15 217 55 217 34
J3 220 3 1 220 *3 219 54 219 35 219 15 218 56 218 35
1 14 221 3 1 221 13 220 54 220 35 220 16 219 57 219 36
: 1S
1fm■
■>
—
0
5
M
O
31 222 13 221 54 221 36 221 17 220 58 220 3 8
1 16 223 31 223 13 222 54 222 36 222 18 221 59 221 39
17 224 3 1 224 *3 223 55 223 37 223 19 223 0 222 40
i 225 3 i 225 14 224 56 224 38 224 20 224 1 223 41
; *9 226 31 226 l4 225 57 225 39 225 21 225 3 224 44
20 227 31 227 15 1226 58 226 40 226 23 226 5 22c 46
21 228 33 228 16 227 59 227 41 227 25 227 7 1
226 49
22 229 34 229 J7 229 0 228 44 228 27 228 9 227 5 1
23 2 3° 35 23° 18 230 1 229 46 229 29 229 11 228 55
1 2 4 231 36 231 20 231 4 23° 48 230 31 230 1 5 229 58
; 25 232 38 232 21 232 6 231 5 1 231 35 231 18 231 I
■ 26 2 3 3 40 233 2 4 233 9 232 54 232 38 232 21 232 6
27 234 4 1 234 27 2 3 4 11 233 57 233 4 1 233 26 23 3 10
28 2 3 5 43 235 29 235 15 235 0* 234 45 234 3° 234 1 4
29 236 46 236 31 236 18 236 3 235 49 235 34 235 18
3° 237 48 237 35 237 21 237 7 . 236 53 236 38 236 23
%
Digitized by Got sle Original from
MCUU v n c t ' Dl ID I Ir I IP D A D V
OF A S T R O L O G Y .
A T able of R ig h t Ascensions.— North Latitude.
l
O I 2 3 I -4 5 6
1 * d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. ID. d. m.
1 O
i 237 48 238 1 238 15 238 29 238 41 238 55 239 7
I 238 5 1 239 4 239 *7 239 30 239 43 239 55 240 4
i 2 239 53 240 6 240 19 240 31 240 44 240 56 241 8
I 3
■
1.
’40 56 241 9 241 21 241 3 3 241 45 241 57 242 9
I *
"
4 241 59 242 11 242 23 242 35 242 46 242 58 243 9
5 243 3 243 14 243 25 243 37 243 48 243 59 244. 10
6 244 6 244 J7 244 28 244 39 244 5° 245 1 1
245 11
7 245 9 245 *9 245 3 1 ;245 41 245 51 246
> !
246 11
I 8 246 13 246 23 246 34 ■
246 44 246 54 247 4 247 *3
9 247 *7 247 27 247 37 247 47 247 56 248 -6 248 15
IO 248 21 248 3° 248 40 248 49 248 58 249 7 249 16
11 249 25 249 34 249 43 249 51 250 0 250 9 250 *7
12 250 29 25° 38 250 46 250 55 2 5 1 3 251 11 25 i *9
*3 251 34 25 i 4 i 251 49 25 2 58 252 5 252 J3 252 21
*4 252 38 252 46 252 53 253 1 253 8 253 ]5 253 23
15 253 43 253 5° 253 57 l254 4 254 11 254 18 254 25
16 254 47 254 54 255 1 255 7 255 14 255 20 255 23
17 255 5 i 255 5 8 256 5 256 11 256 l l 256 21 256 29
18 256 57 257 3 257 9 257 15 257 19 257 25 ,257 3 i
19 258 1 258 7 258 *3 258 18 258 23 258 28 258 33
20 259 7 259 11 259 17 259 21 259 26 259 3 1 259 35
21 260 11 260 J7 260 21 260 25 260 29 260 34 260 3«
22 261 27 261 21 261 25 261 28 261 3 1 261 3 6 261 40
23 262 21 262 25 262 29
■
■— 1
262
1
31 262 35 262 39 262 41
24 263 28 263 3° 263 33 263 36 263 39 263 41 263 45
25 264 33 264 35 264 37 264 40 264 41 264 45 264 47
26 265 38 265 40 265 41 265 44 265 45 26c 48 265 49
27 26 6 44 266 45 266 46 266 48 266 49 266 5 1 '266
! 5 1
28 267 49 267 5° 267 5° 267 5 1 267 5 r 267 54 '267 54
29 268 55 268 55 268 55 268 5 6 268 56 268 57 I268 57
1, 3° 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 0 (270 0 270 0 I27O 0 I
Digitized by G
o<. sle Original from
m c \ a / v n u i f ' D i i m i r i i d p a r v
530 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T able of R ight Ascensions.—South Latitude.
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
° 237 48 237 35 237 21 237 7
I"""
236 53 ;236 38 236 23
1 238 5 1 23s 38 238 24 238 10 237 57 237 4 1 237 28
2 239 53 239 41 239 28 !239 14 239 1 238 47 238 33
3 24O 56 240 44 240 3 1 '240 18 240 5 239 5 i 239 38
4 241 59. 241 47 241 35 241 21 241 10 240 57 240 44
5 243 3 242 51 242 39 242 27 1242 25 242 1 I241 50
6 244 6 243 55 243 43 243 3 1 ,243 20 243 8 '242 56
7 245 9 244 59 244 47 244 37 ,244 25 244 x3 244 2
8 246 13 246 3 245 51 245 41 ;245 3° 245 19 245 8
9 247 17 247 7 246 57 246 47 ,246 36 246 25 246 14
io 248 21 248 11 248 1 247 5 1 ;247 4 i 247 3 1 247 21
11 249 24 249 16 249 7 248 57 ‘248 48 248 38 248' 28
12 250 29 250 21 250 j 1 250
1
3 249 54 249 45 249 35
J3 251 34 25 i 26 25 1 *7 251 9 251 0 25° 51 250 4 i
H 252 3 8 252 31 252 21 252 15 252 6 251 58 251 49
*5 253 43 253 36 253 28 253 21 253 *3 253 5 252 57
16 254 47 254 41 254 33 254 27 254 *9 254 11 254 4
J7 255 5 1 255 46 255 39 255 33 255 26 255 19 255 11
18 1
1
25n 57 256 5 1 256 45 256 39 256 33 '256 27 256 *9
i 9 |258 1 257 56 257 5 1 257 45 257 40 257 34 257 28
20 259 7 259 1 258 57 258 5 1 258 47 258 41 •
’58 36
21 260 11 260 8 260 3 259 59 259 54 259 49 259 44
22 261 17 261 *3 261 9 261 5 261 1 260 56 260 52
23 262 21 262 18 262 4 5 . 262 11 262 8 262 4 262 0
24 263 28 263 24 263 21 263 18 263 J5 263 11 263 9
25 264. 33 264 3° 264 27 264 25 264 21 264 19 264 *7
26 26? 38 265 36 265 33 265 3 1 265 29 265 28 265 26
27 266 44 266 41 266 40 266 39 266 37 266 36 266 34
28 267 49 267 49 267 46 267 46 267 44 267 44 267 43
29 268 55 268 54 268 53 268 53 268 5 1 268 5 i 268 5 *
30 27O 0 270 0 270 0 270 O 270 0 270 0 270 0
Digitized by Google Original from
MPUi/ V n D f c ' Dl ID I Ir I I R R A R V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 531
A T able of R ig h t A scensions.— North Latitude. #
•
C
) 1 2 r
J 4 i
> “ 6r- j
H
f d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. ra. d.' m. d. m.
O 270 0 27b 0 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 0 276 0
1 271 5 271 5 271 5 271 4 271 4 271 3 271 3
2 272 11 272 10 272 io 272 8 272 8 272 6 272 6
3 273 16 273 *5 273 14 273 u 273 11 |273 9 273 8
4 274 21 274 x9 274 *9 274 l6 27V x5 274 11 274 11
5 275 27 275 2? 275 23 275 20 275 18 275 I c 275 >3
6 276 31 276 30 276 27 276 24 276 21 276 18 276 15
7 277 3V 277 35 277 31 277 28 277 25 277 21 277 18
8 278 43 278 39 278 35 278 31 278 28 278 24 278 20
9 279 48 279 43 279 39 279 35 279 3 1 279 20 279 21
xo 280 5.3 280 48 280 43 280 39 280 34 2so 29 280 25
11 281 c8
1 J
281 53 281 47 281 41 281 37 281 31 281 27
12 283 3 282 57 282 5 * 282 45 282 40 282 34 282 29
13 284 8 284 1 z83 55 283 49 283 43 283 37 283 31
H 28 c 13 285 6 284 59 284 53 284 46 284 40 284 33
*5 286 17 286 10 286 3 285 .56 285 49 285 41 285 35
16 287 21 287 14 287 7 286 59 286 5 1 286 45 286 37
17 288 26 288 18 288 11 288 1 287 55 287.47 287 39
18 280 31 289 21 289 *4 289 5 288 57 288 49 288 4 1
19 290 35 290 26 290 x7 290 : 8 290 0 289 51 289 43
-20 |291 39 291 3° 291 20 1291 11 291 1 290 53 290 44
■21 j292 43 292 33 292 23 292 *3 292 4 291 55 291 45
22 j293 47 293 37 l293 26 293 16 293 6 292 56 292 47
23
294 5 1 294 40 294 29 294 19 294 8 293 293 4*
*
24 ' 29 c 54 295 43 295 3 r 295 21 295 10, 294 59 294 49
25 296 57 !296 46 296 35 296 23 296 11 296 1 295 5 °
26 298 1 j297 49 297 37 297 25 297 H 297 2 296 51
27 299 4 I298 51 298 39 298 27 298 »5 298 3 297 5 1 ;
28 3°° 7 1
299 54 299 4 i 299 29 299 16 299 4 298 52
29 301 9 !3°° 56 3°° 43 300 3° 300 x7 300 5 299 53
3° 302 11 1
3 01 58 301 45 301 3 1 301 18 301 *5 3°° 53 J
No. 27. 6 0 3
Digitized by Go*, sle Original from
m p \ a / d i i p i 1r 1
I R P A P V
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
A-Table of R ig h t A scensions.-—South L a t i t u d e .
O 1 2 3 4 5 ’ 6
V
? d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. id.
O 270 0 270 O 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 0
I 27 * 5 271 6 271 7 271 8 271 8 271 8 271 9
; 2 272 11 272 11 272 14 272 15 272 16 272 16 27218
3 273 16 273 18 273 20 273 23 273 23 273 24 273 26
4 274 21 274 24 274 26 274 31 274 3 1 274 3 1 274 34
5 275 27 275 3° 275 33 .275 38 275 38 275 40 275 43
6 276 J2 276 36 276 39 276 45 276 45 276 48 276 51
7 277 38 277 41 277 45 277 5i 277 5 1 277 56 278 0
8 278 43 278 47 278 51 278 59 278 59 279 4 279 8
9 279 48 279 5 i 279 57 280 6 280 6 280 11 280 16
io 280 53 280 58 281 3 281 13 281 13 281 19 281 24
11 281 58 282 4 282 9 282 20 282 20 282 26 282 31
12 283 3 283 9 283 15 283 27 283 27 283 33 283 40
*3 284 8 284 14 284 21 284 34 284 34 284 41 284 48
U 2$5 13 285 19 285 27 285 41 285 41 285 48 285 56
*5 286 17 286 24 286 31 286 47 286 47 286 ss 287 3
16 287 21 287 29 287 38 2&7 54 287 54 288 1 288 11
*7 288 26 288 34 288 43 289 17 289 0 289 9 289 18
18 289 31 289 39 289 48 290 56 290 6 290 15 290 25
; i-9 290 35 290 44 29° si 291 3 291 11 291 21 291 31
' 20 291 39 291 49 291 58 292 8 292 18 292 29 292 39
-! 21 292 43 292 53 293 3 293 13 293 24 293 35 293 46
S
j 22 293 47 293 57 294 8 294 »8 294 30 294 41 294 5 1
23 294 5 X 295 1 295 J3 295 23 295 35 295 47 295 58 {
; 24 295 54 296 5 296 17 296 28 296 40 296 53 297 4
:i 25 296 57 297 9 297 21 297 33 297 45 297 58 298 10
f 26 298 1 298 *3 298 25 298 38 298 50 299 3 299 16
j : 27 299 4 299 16 299 29 299 41 299 55 300 8 300 22
! 28 300 7 3 °° *9 3OO 33 3° ° 4 6 3 °° 59 301 12 301 27
29 301 8 301 21 301 36 3 01 5° 302 3 302 18 302 31
70 302 i 1 302 2? 302 3^9 3°2 53 3°3 7 3°3 21 3°3 37
Original from
M P U / v n R k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
2
1
>Go
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T able of R ight Ascensions.— N orth L a t i t u d e .
O 2 3 ! ^ 5 6
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. 1
m. d. m.
c 302 11 3°i 58 301 45 3° i 3* 3° * 18 3°i 5 3 ° 0 52
i 3°3 *4 303 0 302 47 302 33 302 *9 3°2 6 3° i 52
2 3°4 16 304 1 3°3 48 3°3 34 303 20 3°3 6 302 52
3 3°5 18 3°5 3 3°4 50 304 35;3°4 21 3°4 7 _3°3 52
4 306 20 306 s 305 5 1 305 36 3°5 21 305 7 3°4 52
5 3°7 21 307 7 306 5 * 306 36 306 21 306 7 305 5 *
6 308 24 3°8 8 307 53 3°7 37 3°7 22 3°7 7 306 5 *
7 309 25 309 9 308 54 308 37 308 22 308
7 ,307 5*
8 31° 26 3 *a IO 3°9 54 3°9 37 3°9 21 3°9 6 3° 8 5.0
9 3 ** 27 311 1-0 310 54 3*° 37 3 10 21 3*o 5 3°9 49
I O 312 28 312 11 3“ 54 3 ** 37 3 ** 21 3 *1 4 3 *° 48
11 3*3 28 3J3 12 312 54 312 37 312 20 3*2 3 3 ** 47
12 3H 29 3 i 4 11 313 54 3*3 37 3*3 *9 3*3 2 3*2 46
*3 29 325 11 3*4 54 3*4 3 6 3*4 18 3*4 1 3*3 45
: *4 316 29 316 11 3*5 53 3*5 35 3*5 *7 3*5 O 3*4 42
*5 317 29 3 J7 I O 316 5 * 3*6 34 316 16 3*5 58 3*5 4*
16 318 29 318 10 3*7 5 * 3*7 33 3*7 *5 3 *6 57 3*6 39
*7 3*9 28 3*9 9 3*8 50 3*8 3 * 3*8 *4 3*7 55 3*7 37
28 320 27 320 8 3*9 49 3*9 30 ■3*9 11 3*8 53 3*8 3.5
19 321 27 3 21 7 320 48 320 29 320 10 3*9 5* 3*9 32
20 322 26 322 6 321 47 321 27 321 8 320 49 320 3*
2! 3 2 3 2 5 323 4 322 45 322 25 322 6 321 47 321 28
22 324 23 324 3 323 43 323 23 323 4 322 45 322 25
23 325 22 325 1 324 4 * 324
i-
21 323 5 * 323 4* 323 22
24 326 20 325 59 325 39 325 *9 324 59 324 39 324 *9
25 3 27 18 326 57 326 37 326 *7 325 56 325 36 325 16
26 328 16 327 55 327 33 327 *4 326 53 326 33 1
326 12
27 329 I 4 328 53 328 3 * 328 11 327 5° 327 ,30 ;327 10
28 330 11 329 50 329 29 329 8 328 47 328 .
•' 1
27 1328 6
29 3 3 1 9 33° 47 33° 26 33° 5 329 44 3 2 9 2 3 329 3
3° 332 6 3 3 * 44 3 3 * 23 3 3 * 1 330 4 * 330 20 1
3 2 9 59
Original from
m p a i v n o t ' D i i m i r i i r r a r v
534 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T able of R i g h t Ascensions.— South Latitude.
O 1 2 3 4 I
l j 6
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. 1
tn.
o 302 12 302 25 302 39 302 53 3° 3 7 303 21 303 37
1 3°3 14 303 28 3°3 42 3°3 57 3°4 11 3°4 26 3°4 41
2 304 l6 3°4 3 1 3°4 45 3° 5 0 3°5 15 3°5 3 ° 3°5 46
3 305 18 305 33 3°5 48 306 4 306 18 306 34 3°6 5°
4 306 20 306 36 3°^ 5 1 3°7 6 367 21 307 38 307 54 ;
5 3°7 22 307 38 3°7 54 308 9 308 25 308 41 3°8 58
6 308 24 308 40 3°8 S6 309 11 309 29 3°9 45 310 1
; 7 3°9 25 309 41 309 58 3 i° 14 310 31 310 48 311 5 •
8 310 26 3i° 43 3 i i 0 3 “ l6 3 ii 34 311 51 312 8 f
9 3 11 27 3 »i 44 3 12 1 312 18 3 12 35 312 54 3*3 1 I !
io 312 28 312 45 3*3 2 3*3 19 3*3 37 3 i3 55 3 H 14
11 3J3 28 313 46 314 4 3H 21 3*4 39 314 57 315 16
12 3*4 29 314 46 3*5 4 3 i 5 2 3i 5 40 315 59 316 18 <
*3 3*5 29 3*5 47 316 5 316 22 316 41 3 i7 0 317 *9 1
H 316 29 3l6 47 317 6 •3 i7 24: 317 41 318 1 318 21
*5 317 29 317 47 318 6 3 10 24 •3*8 44 3 19 1 3*9 21
16 318 29 318 47 3 r9 6 319 -25 3*9 44 320 4 320 24
17 3*9 28 319 47 320 6 320 25 320 45 321 4 321 25
18 320 27 320 46 321 6 321 25 3 2 t 45 322 5 322 26
19 321 27 321 46
]
0J
I
co
|
6 322 25 322 45 323 6 323 27
20 322 26 322 45 ‘323 S 323 25 323 45 324 6 324 27
21 323 25 323 44 324 4 324 '24 324 45 325 6 325 27
22 324 23 324 42 325 3 325 24 325 45 326 6 326 27 .
23 325 21 325 42 326 1 326 23 326 144 327 5 327 27 ;
24 326 20 326 40 327 I 327 21 327 44 1328 4 328 26
25 327 18 327 39 328 O 328 21 328 41 '329 4 329 25.
26 328 16 328 37 328 58 329 19 329 4 i 33° 1 33° 24
j 27 329 14 329 35 329 56 33° *7 33° 39 331 1 3 3 i 24
28 330 11 33o 33 33° 54 33i 15 331 37 33i ’
59 332 21
29 3 3 1 9 33i 3 ° 33 * 5 1 332 H 332 35 332 57 333 2 0 ,
/ 30 332 6 332 27 332 49 333 11 333 34 333 55 334 181
Digitized by Google Original from
D
l IPIIr IIRPA
B
V
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T able of R ig h t Ascensions.— North Latitude.
H d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
0 3 3 2 6 3 3 1 44 3 3 1 23 3 3 1
1
2 330 41 33° 20
f
329 59
I 333 4 332 41 332 20 3 3 1 59 3 3 1 38 3 3 1 16 33° 55
2 334 I 333 38 333 17 332 55 S32 34 332 12 3 3 i 51
3 334 58 3 3 4 35 334 *3 333 51 333 3° 333 8 332 47
4 335 55 335 3 2 335 10 334 48 334 26 ‘
3 3 4 4 333 43
5 336 5 i 336 29 3 3 6 7 335 44 335 22 335 0 334 39
6 337 48 337 25 337 3 336 40 3 3 6 18 335 56 335 34
7 338 44 338 22 337 59 337 36 337 H 336 52 ■336 30
8 339 40 339 18 338 55 338 32 338 IO 337 48 337 26
9 340 37 340 14 339 5 1 339 28 339 6 (338 43 338 21
IO 3 4 i 33 3 4 i IO 34° 47 34° 24 340 2 339 39 339 *7
11 342 29 342 6 3 4 i 43 3 4 1 20 340 58 34° 35 34° 12
12 343 2 5 343 2 342 39 342 l6 3 4 i 53 341 30 3 4 i 7
*3 344 20 343 58 343 35 343 12 342 49 342 25 342 2
345 16 344 53 344 3 ° 344 7 343 44 3*3 20 342 57
*5 3j 6 12 345 48 345 25 345 2 344 39 344 J5 343 5 2
16 347 7 346 44 346 21 345 57 345 34 345 10 344 47
17 348 3 347 40 347 *7 346 52 346 29 346 5 345 42
18 348 58 348 36 348 12 347 47 347 24 347 0 346 37
19 349 54 349 31 349 7 348 43 348 19 347 55 347 32
20 35° 49 350 26 3 5 ° 2 349 38’ 349 14 348 50 348 27
21 3 5 1 44 3 5 1 21 3 5 0 57 35° 33 35° 9 349 45 3 4 9 22
22 352 39 352 16 3 5 1 5 2 351 28 351 4 3 5 ° 40 35° *7
2 3 353 35 353 11 352 47 3 5 2 23 3 5 i 59 3 5 1 35 3 5 1 12
24 354 30 354 6 353 42 353 18 352 54 352 3° 3 5 2 7
25 355 25 355 1 354 38 3 5 4 >4 353 50 353 26 353 2
26 3 5 6 20 355 57 355 33 355 9 3 5 4 45 354 21 353 57
27 357 *5 356 5 2 356 28 356 4 »
355 40 355 16 354 52
28 358 10 357 47 357 2 3 3 5 6 59 356 35 356 11 355 47
29 359 • 5 358 42 358 18 357 54 357 3° 357 6 356 4 2
3° 360 0 359 37 359 13 358 49 358 25 358 1 357 37
Mo. 27. 6 P
Digitized by Goc ole Original from
M EM / V n R k ' Dl IP I Ir I I P P A P V
53$ A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T a b l e o f R i g h t A s c e n s i o n s . — South Latitude.
O 1 2 3 4 5 6
X d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
O 332 6 332 28 332 49 333 11 333 33 333 55 334 18
1 333 4 333 25 333 47 33+ 9 334 3 1 334 53 335
2 334 1 534 22 334 44 335 6 335 29 1335 5 1 336 H
3 334 58 335 J9 335 4 i 336 3 336 26 336 49 337 12
4 335 55 336 16 336 39 337 1 !337 24 337 47 338 10
5 336 5 1 337 J3 337 36 337 5 8 338 21 338 44 339 8
6 337 4 8 33S 10 338 33 338 55 339 18 339 4 i 340 5
7
• 338 44 339 7 339 3 ° 339 5 2 34o 15 34° 38 341 2
8 339 40 340 4 340 27 34° 49 341 12 34i 35 341 59
9 34° 37 341 0 34i 23 34i 46 342 9 342 32 342 56
io 34i 33 341 56 342 19 342 42 >343 6 343 29 343 53
11 342 29 342 5 2 343 *5 343 3 8 344 2 344 25 344 49
12 343 25 343 48 343 11 344 34 344 58 345 21 345 45
J3 344 20 344 44 345 7 345 3 ° 345 54 346 18 346 4 2
H 345 16 345 4 ° 346 3 346 26 346 50 347 H 347 38
J5 346 12
[
346 35 346 59 347 22 347 46 348 10 348 34
i 6 347 7 347 3i 347 55 348 18 348 42 349 6 349 3°
*7 348 3 348 27 348 5 1 349 *4 349 38 350 2 35° 26
18 348 58 349 22 349 46 35° 9 35° 33 35°.57 351 2 i
19 349 54 35° 18 35° 42 351 5 351 29 351 53 352 17
20 35° 49 35i 13 351 37 352 1 352 25 352 49 353 *3
21 351 44 352 8 352 32 352 56 353 20 353 44 354 8
22 352 39 353 3 353 27 353 5 i 354 15 354 39 355 3
23
353 35 353 5 8 354 22 354 46 355 10 355 34 355 58
24 354 3° 354 53 355 17 355 4 i 356 5 356 29 356 53
25 355 25 355 4 8 356 12 356 36 357 0 357 24 357 4 8
26 356 20 356 43 357 7 357 3 * 357 55 358 *9 358 43
27 357 *5 357 38 358 2 358 26 358 50 359 i 4 359 38
28 358 10 358 33 358 57 359 21 359 45 36° 9 36° 32
29 359 5 359 28 359 52 360 16 360 40 36t 4 361 28
3° 360 O 360 23 36° 47 361 11 1
361 35 361 59 362 23
Digitized by G o i , s l e
Original from
M P A / v n o k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
S H E W I N G T H E
D E C L I N A T I O N S
O F T H E
P L A N E T S .
Google Original from
MDIA/ v n p t ' di i q i i r I ID
Digitized by Google Original from
MCIA/ V r i R ^ Dl IP I Ir I ID D A D V
A T a b l e of D e c l i n a t i o n s . —North Latitude.
2*
0
d. m.
]
d.
L
m.
/
d /
1
m. d .:
5
m.
4
d. m. d.'
5
m.
<
d.
5
m.
O 22 32 24 32 25 32 26 32 27 32 28 32 29 32 3 c
1 22 31 24 31 25 3 1 26 3 1 27 3 1 28 3 1 29 3i 29
2 23 3 1 24 3 i 25 3 1 26 3 i 27 3 1 28 3 1 29 31 20
3 23 30 24 30 25 30 26
_ 3° 27 3° 28 3° 29 3° 27
4 23 28 24 20 25 28 26 28 27 28 28 28 29 28
26,
5 23 26 24 26 25 26 26 26 l 27 26 28 26 29 26 25;
6 23 2 3 24 23 25 23 26 23 27 22 28 22 29 22
7 23 20 24 20 25 20 26 20 27 !9 28 J9 29 >9 23
8 23 17 24 *7 25 *7 26 16 27 16 28 16 29 16 22
9 23 13 24 J3 25 *3 26 12 27 13 28 12 29 12 21:1
10 23 9 24 9 25 9 26 9 27 8 28 8 29 8
2o;
11 2 3 4 24 4 25 4 26 4 27 3 28 3 29 3 *91
12 22 59 23 59 24 59 25 59 26 59 27 58 28 58 lb
*3 23 53 23 53 24 53 25 53 26 52 27 52 25 52 l7 .
14 22 47 23 47 24 46 25 4 6 20 46 27 45 28 45 16
15 22 4 1 23 4 * 24 40 25 40 26 40 27 39 28 39 15
16 22 34 23 34 24 33 25 33 *26 33 27 32 28 32 H 1
17 22 27 23 27 24 26 25 26 26 25 27 25 28 24 »3
lb 22 19 23 19 24 18 25 18 26 17 27 16 28 16 12
*9 22 10 23 10 24 9 25 9 26 8 27 7 28 6 11
2Q 22 2 23 2 24 i 25 0 25 59 26 58 27 57 10
21 21 53 23 43 23 52 24 5 1 25 5° 26 49 27 45 9
22 21 43 22 43 23 42 24 4i 25 40 26 39 27 38 8
23 21 33 22 33 23 32 24 3 1 25 3 ° 26 29 27 2a 7
i
24 21 23 22 22 23 21
i 24 20 25 19 26 18 27 *7 6 !
2-5 21 13 22 11 23 10 24 9 25 8 26 7 27 6
5
26 21 1 22 O 22 59 23 58 24 57 25 56 26 55 41
27 20 5 ° 21 48 22 4 7 23 46 24 45 25 44 26 43 3'
28 20 38 21 36 22 35 23 34 24 33 2 5 32 26 30 2
29 20 26 21 23 22 22 23 21 24 20 25 19 26 l 7 ■
3° 20 J3 21 12 22 10 23 9 24 7 25 6 26 . 4 °,
0 1
! 5 3 4 1
> >
JNo. 27. 6 Q 2
Digitized by Gocsle Original from
MEUif Dl IDI \r I I B P A R V
540 AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T a b l e of D e c l i n a t i o n s . —South Latitude.
23
0
d. m.
1
d. m.
2
d.
►
m. J
1
m.
4
d. m.
<
d .' m.
(
d. m.
c 23 32 22 32 21 32 20 32 19 32 18 32 17 31 3 °
I 23 3 1 22 3 1 21 3 1 20 31 19 3 1 18 31 *7 3 i 29
2 23 3 1 22 31 21 31 20 3 i 19 3 1 18 3 i 17 31 28
3 23 3° 22 3° 21 30 20 3° 19 53 18 3 ° 3° 27
4 23 28 22 28 21 28 20 28 x9 28 18 28 17 28 261
5 23 26 22 26 21 26 20 26 19 26 18 16 ?7 26 25
6 23 23 22 23 21 23 20 23 19 23 j 8 23 x7 23 24
7 23 20 22 20 21 20 20 20 19 20 18 20 17 20 23
8 23 17 22 17 21 17 20 17 19 x7 18 >7 x7 17 22
9 23 *3 22 x3 ^ 21 13 20 13 *9 13 18 13 .17 13 21
10 23 9 22 9 21 9 20 9 19 9 18 9 17 10 20
11 23 4 22 4 21
* 4 20 4 19 5 18 5 17 5 *9
12 22 59 21 59 20 59 | 19 59 19 0 18 0 *7 0 18
x3 22 53 21 53 20 53 19 53 18 54 17 54 16 54 x7
x4 22 47 21 47 20 47 ! J9 47 18 48 17 48 10 48 16
x5 22 4 i 21 4 i 20 41 ! 19 41 18 42 17 42 16 42 x5
16 22 34 21 35 20 35 *9 35 18 36 17 36 16 36 14
x7 22 27 21 28 20 28 19 28 18 29 17 29 10 29 13
i8 22 19 21 20 20 20 19 21 18 21 17 21 l6 21 12
19 22 10 l 21 11 20 11 19 12 18 13 17 x3 16 13 11!
1
20 22 2 21 3 20 4 19 4 18 5 17 5 l6
1
5 IO
21 21 53 20 54 19 55 18, 56 17 57 l6 47 15 5« 9 !
22 21 43 20 44 19 45 18 46 17 47 l6 37 15 48 8;
23 21 33 20 34 19 35 18 36 17 37 l 6 47 15 38 7 \
24 21 23 20 24 19 25 18 26 17 27 l 6 28 x5 28 6‘
25 21 12 20 14 19 15 18 l6 17 l 7 l 6 18 15 x9 5
26 21 1 20 2 19 3 18 4 17 5 l 6 7 15 8 4
47 20 5° 19 51 18 52 i 7 53 16 54 15 56 14 57 3
28 20 38 19 39 18 40 17 41 16 42 15 44 14 45 2
2g 20 26 19 27 18 28 17 29 16 30 15 32 14 33 1
3° 20 13 x9 14 18 J5 x7 x7 j 6 18 15 19 14 20 O
O ][ 2i 1 3
» 4 5 6 a
Digitized by Google Original from
MCIA/ Dl IP I Ir I ID D A B V
OF A S T R O L O G Y . 54*
A T a b l i of D e c l i n a t i o n s . - — North Latitude.
p-!U
!L
0 < < 4 5 6
a d. m. d. m. d. ra. d .' m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
O 20 13 21 12 22 10 23 9 24 7 25 6 26 5 3 °
1 20 0 20 59 21 57 22 56 23 54 24 53 a5 5 1 29
2 19 47 20 45 21 44 22 4 2 23 40 24 39 25 37 28
3 X9 33 2Q 3 1 21 30 22 28 23 26 24 25 25 23 27
4 x9 19 20 x7- 21 16 22 H 23 12 24 11 25 9 26
$ x9 5 20 3 21 2 22 0 22 5 8 23 56 24 54 25
6 18 5° 19 49 20 47 21 45 22 43 23 4 1 24 39 24
7 18 35 19 34 20 32 21 29 22 27 23 25 24 23 23
8 18 20 19 18 20 16 21 *3 22 11 23 9 24 7 22
9 18 4 19 2 20 0 20 57 21 55 22 53 23 5 1 21
IO 17 48 18 46 *9 44 20 4 ‘ 21 39 22 37 23 34 20
11 x7 32 18 29 19 27 20 25 21 22 22 20 23 n •9
12 17 15 18 12 19 10 20 8 21 5 22 3 23 0 18
13 16 58 x7 55 18 53 *9 51 20 4 s 21 46 22 43 *7
/
14 16 4 * 17 38 18 36 19 33 20 3° 21 28 22 25 16
15 16 24 x7 21 18 18 *9 13 20 12 21 10 22 7 *5
16 16 6 17 3 18 0 18 57 x9 54 20 52 21 49 x4
17 15 48 16 45 *7 42 18 39 *9 36 20 33 21 3° *3
13 15 29 16 26 *7 23 18 20 *9 *7 20 H 21 11 12
! 9 15 11 16 8 17 4 18 1 18 58 l 9 55 20 52 11
20 *4 52 x5 49 l6 45 l 742 *18 39 19 36 20 33 10
21 14 33 15 3° l6 26 17 23 18 20 l 9 17 20 *3 9
r1
.22 14 M 15 11 l 6 7 x7 4 18 0 18 57 *9 53 8
23 13 54 14 5 i *5 47 16 44 l 7 40 18 37 *9 33 7
24 13 34 14 31 *5 27 16 4 2 n 20 18 *7 19
.O *3 6
25 13 14 *4 11 »5 7 16 4 17 0 x7 57
✓
lo
-0 53 5
26 12 54 13 51 >4 4 7 15 43 16 39 x7 36 18 33 4
27 12 33 *3 3° 14 26 15 22 16 18 x7 15 18 11 3
28 12 13 9 x4 5 15 1 l 5 57 16 54 17 50 2
29 I I 52 12 48 1 3 44 H 40 l 5 36 16 33 *7 29 1
1
|3° 11
<
31
0
12
j
27
1
13 23
2
x4 *9
*
15 *5
4
10 11
5 V »l
Digitized by Gc
k
Original from
KIPUI/ v n p ^ Dl ID I Ir I I D D A R V
A T a b l e of D e c l i n a t i o n s . - — South Latitsdc.
1 .
0
d. m.
:
d. m. d.
I
m.
5
d.
I
m.
4
d. m.
5
d.
9
m.
6
d. m.
1
0 20 13 T9 14 18 16 *7 17 16 18 *5 20 14 21 3°
1 20 O 19 I 18 3 *7 4 16 5 *5 7 14 8 29
2 19 47 18 48 *7 5° 16 5 * 1s 52 H 54 l3 55 28
3 *9 33 18 35 17 36 16 38 *5 39 14 41 13 42 27
4 19 19 18 21 17 22 l6 24 15 26 14 27 *3 29 26
5 19 5 18 7 >7 8 l6 10 *5 12 14 *3 *3 *5 25
6 18 5 ° J7 5 2 1 16 54 15 56 H 58 *3 59 13 1 24
7 18 35 T7 3 « 16 39 15 41 H 43 13 44 12 46 23
8 18 20 17 22 l6 24 15 26 H 28 13 29 12 31 22
9 18 4 J7 6 l6 8 15 10 14 12 13 14 12 16 21
10 17 4 » 16 50 15 52 14 54 *3 12 58 12 1 20
11 17 32 l6 34 *5 36 14 38 13 40 12 42 11 45 19
12 17 16 *7 J5 20 14 22 13 24 12 26 11 29 18
13 16 58 16 0 15 3 14 5 13 8 12 10 Irl 13 17
*4 16 4 * 15 43 14 46 13 4» 12 5 i 11 53 io 56 16
*5 16 24 15 26 14 28 13 3 i 12 34 11 36 10 39 *5
16 16 6 IS 8 14 11 13 H 12 17 11 19 10 22 14
'1 15 4 » H 5° J3 53 12 56 11 59 11 1 10 4 13
18 *5 29 *4 32 »3 35 12 38 I I 41 10 43 9 46 12
19 11 *4 J4 J3 17 12 20 11 23 10 25 9 28 11
20 52 13 55 12 58 12 1 11 4 10 7 9 10 10
21 14 33 13 36 12 39 11 42 10 45 9 48 8 51 9
22 H *4 *3 17 12 20 11 23 10 26 9 29 8 32 8
23 13 54 12 58 1 12 1 11 4 10 7 9 10 8 J3 7
24 *3 34 12 38 11 41 10 44 9 48 8 51 7 54 ~6
2{ 13 12 18 11 21 10 24 9 28 8 3 1 7 35 5
so 12 54 1I 59 u 1 10 4 9 8 8 u . 7 15 4
371 12 33 11 3 ° 10 39 9 43 8 47 7 59 6 54 3
a3 13 13 II 17 10 20 9 24 8 *8 * 7 31 6 35 2
39 I I S2 io 50 10 0 9 4 8 7 7 11 6 15 1
30
1 11
3* 10 35 9 39 8 43 7 46 0 5<
> 5 54 0
1 I
5 1 |a 3 4 i £ B
Digitized by G O O ^ I C Original from
M n / i / v n u k ' D i i m i r i i d r a d v
543
O F A S T R O L O G Y.
A T able of D e c l i n a t i o n s . —North Latitode.
O 1 2 3 I 4 | 5 6
"R ' d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m . d. in. d. m . d. m .
0 11 3 1 12 27 *3 23 14 *9 J5 15 16 11
/
n 7
1 11 9 12 s 13 1 *3 57 14 53 *5 46 -
10
s
45
2
3
IO
IO
48
26
11
11
45
23
12
12
41
19
*3
13
36
14
M
*4
32
10
15
15
28
6
10
l6
24
2
4 10 5 11 I I I 57 12 52, 1 13 48 14 44 15 40
0
5 9 43 10 39 11 35 12
/
3 ° 13 26 14 22 J5 18
6 9 21 10 17 11 13 12 8 13 4 14 0 14 55
7 8 58 9 55 IO 5 * 11 46 12 42 *3 37 H 33
8 8 36 9 3 2 10 28 1I 23 12 19 ’ 3 14 »4 10
9 8 13 9 IO 9 6 11 1 1I 56 12 52 13 47
10 7 51 8 47 9 42 IO 38 J I 33 12 29 ‘3 24
11 7 28 8 23 9 18 IO 14 11 9 12 5 *3 0
12 7 < 8 0 8 55 9 5 1 IO 46 11 42 12 37
13
f
6 42 7 37 8 32 9 28 IO 23 11 J9
A
12 14
14
*5
6
5,
J9
56 2 14
52
8
7
9
47
9
8
5
42
I O
9
0
37
10
10
36
33
11
11
5 1
28
16 5 33 6 29 7 24 8 *9 9 H 10 IO
/
11 5
17 5 9 6 5 7 0 7 55 8 5° 9 46 IO 41
i8‘ 4 46 5 42 6 37 7 32 8 27 9
c
%
22 IO x7
J9 4 22 5 18 6 *3 7 8 8 3 8 58 9 53
20 3 58 4 54 5 49 6 44 7 39 8 34 9 29
21 3 35 4 3° 5 25 6 20 7 *5 8 10 9
Q 5
22
23
3
2
11
47
4
3
7
43
5
4
2
38
5
5
57
33
6
6
2
28
7
7
47
23
O
8
42
18
24 2 24 3 19 4 H 5 9 6 4 6
/
59 7 54
25 2 0 2 55 3 5° 4 45 5 5° 6 35 7 3°
26 1 36 2 3 1 3 26 4 21 5 10 6 11 7
/
0
27 1 12 2 7 3 2 3 57 4 52 5 47 O 42
28 0 48 1 43 2 38 3 33 4 28 5 23 6 18
29 0 24 1 19 2 H 3 9 4 3 4 59 5 54
3° 0 0 0 _5i_ 1 2 45 3
40 4 35 5 3 °
• JN
’o. 27.
Digitized b
]
•y Go».isle
A T a b l e of D e c l i n a t i o n s . — South Latitude.
O I 2 1 4 5 6
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. in. d. m. d. m. d. m.
C 11 31 IO 35 9 3 9 8 43 7 46 6 5° 5 54
i 11 9 10 14 9 18 8 22 7 2 5 6 29 5 33
2 IO 48 9 53 8 57 8 1 7 4 ■ 6 8 5 12
3 I O 26 9 31 8 3 5 1 7 39 6 43 5 47 4 51
4 IO 5 9 9 8 14 7 18 6 22 5 26 4 3°
5 9 43 8 47 7 5 2 6 56 6 O 5 4 4 8
6 9 21 8 25 7 3° 6 34 5 38 4 42 3 46
7 » 50 8 3 7 7 6 11 5 15 4 19 3 2 3
8 . 8 36 7 40 ■ 6 44 5 49 4 53 3 57 3 1
9 8 *3 7 17 6 21 5 26 4 30 3 34 2 39
10 7 51 6 55 5 59 5 4 4 8 3 12 2 17
11 7 28 6 32 • 5 37 4 41 3 46 2 50 1 55
12 7 5 6 9 5 4 18 3 2 3 2 27 1 3 2
*3 6 42 5 40 4 51 3 55 3 0 2 4 1 9
H 6 19 5 2 3 4 28 3 32 2 37 1 41 0 46
5 5° 5 1 4 6 3 10 2 15 1 19 0 24
16 5 33 4 3 8 3 4 i 2 57 1 5 2 O 56 0 0
J7 5 9 4 H 3 19 2 24 1 29 O 33 0 24
18 4 4 <
> 3 5 i 2 56 2 1 1 5 O 10 0 47
19 4 22 3 27 2 32 I 37 O 4 i O 14 1 9 I
20 3 58 3 3 2 8 1 J3 0 18 O
O
O
1
1
33
21 3 35 2 29 1 44 O 49 0 6 I '2 1 57
22 3 11 2 16 1 21 O 26 0 29 I 25 2 20
2 3 2 47 1 52 0 57 O 2 0 53 I 48 2 43
24 2 24 1 28 0 33 I ° 22 I 17 2 12 3 7
25
/
2 0 1 5 0 9 1 0 46 I 4 1 2 36 3 3 1
26 I 36 0 4 i 0 15 j 1 JO 2 5 3 0 3 55
27 I 12 0 17 0 39 I 1 34 2 29 3 24 4 19
28 0 48 0 7 1 3 1 57 2 52 3 47 4 42
29 O 24 0 3 r 1 27 1 2 21 3 16 4 11 5 6
3° O 0 0
4
1 5° ! 2 45 3 40 4- 3 5 5 •?o
Digitized by Goofile Original from
m c m / v n c i f ' di i d i i r i i q d a p v
545
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T a b l e of D e c l i n a t i o n s . — North Latitude.
0 1 e
2 3 4 5 6
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
o 0 0 O 55 1 5° 2 45 3 40 4 35 5 30
1 0 24 O 3 1 1 27 2 21 3 16 4 11 5 6
2 0 48 O 7 1 3 1 57 2 52 3 47 4 4 2
3 I 12 O 1 O 39 1 34 2 29 3 24 4 J9
4 I 36 O 4 1 O 15 1 10 2 5 3 0 3 55
5 2 O I 5 O 9 O 46 1 41 2 36 3 3 1
6 2 24 1 29 O 34 O 22 1 J7 2 12 3 7
7 0 47 1 52 O 57 O 2 O 53 1 48 2 43
8 3 11 2 l6 1 21 O 26 O 29 1 25 2 20
9 3 35 2 3° 1 44 O 49 O 6 1 2 I 57
IO 3 5« 3 3 2 8 1 *3 0 18 0 38 1 33
11 4 22 3 27 2 32 I 37 O 4 i 0 h 1 9
12 4 46 3 5 i 2 55 2 0 1 4 0 9 O 46
*3 5 9 4 14 3 *9 2 24 I 28 0 32 0 23
5 33 4 38 3 43 2 47 2 52 0 56 O 0
*5 5 56 5 I 4 6 3 10 2 *5 1 19 O 24
16 6 l 9 5 24 4 29 3 33 2
1
00
1
co
1 42 O 47
*7 6 42 5 4 6 4 51 3 55 3 0 2 4 I 9
18 7 5 6 9 5 14 4 18 3 23 2 27 I 32
7 28 6 32 5 37 4 4 1 3 46 2 5° I 55
20 7 5 1 6 56 6 0 5 5 4 9 3 *3 2 18
21 8 *3 7 18 6 22 5 27 4 31 3 35 2 40
22 8 36 7 41 6 45 5 5 ° 4 54 3 58 3 2
23 8 58 8 3 7 7 6 12 5 1 6 4 20 3 24
24 9 21 8 25 7 3° 6 34 5 3« 5 4 2 3 46
25 9 43 8 47 7 52 6 56 6 O 5 4 4 8
26 10 5 9 9 8 H 7 18 6 22 5 26 4 3 °
27 10 26 9 3 1 8 36 7 4 0 6 43 5 47 4 5 1
28 IO 48 9 53
!
j 8 57 8 I 7 4 6 8 5 I2
29 11 9 10 H 9 18 8 22 7 25 6 2 9
5 33
J 30
I 1 31 10 35 1 9 39 8 43 7 46 6 <0 5
~ ---!
Digitized by Google Original from
M P / I / v n o k ' Dl IRI \ r I I R R A R V
546 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T a b l e of D e c l i n a t i o n s . — South Latitude.
r ~
O 1 2
> 3 4 ( 6
1 * d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. in.
o O 0 O 55 I 5° 2 45 3 40 4 35 5 3°
l O 24 1 19 2 14 3 9 4 4 4 59 5 54
2 O 48 I 43 2 38 3 33 4 28 5 23 6 18
3
1 12 2 7 3 2 - 3 57 4 5 2 5 47 6 42
4 1 36 2 3 1 3 26 4 21 5 16 6 11 7 6
5 2 0 2 55 3 50 4 45 5 40 6 35 7 3°
6 2 24 3 *9 4 14 5 9 - 6 4 6 59 7 54
■ 7 2 47 3 42 4 37 5 3 2 6 27 7 22 8 l 7
8 3 11 4 6 5 1 5 56 6 5 i 7 46 8 41
9 3 35 4 29 5 24 6 19 7 15 8 10 9 5
io 3 5« 4 53 5 4 8 6 43 - 7 39 8 34 9 29
11 4 22 >7 6 12 7 7 8 3 8 58 9 53
12 4 46 5 4 i 6 36 7 3 1 8 26 9 21 IO 16
J3 5 9 6 5 7 0 7 55 8 50 9 45 IO 40
H 5 33 6 29 7 24 8 19 9 14 IO 9 11 4
J5 5 5 6 6 52 7 47 8 42 9 37 IO 33 J1 28
16 6 19 7 14 8 9 9 5 IO 9 10 56 11 51
J7 6 41 7 37 8 32 9 28 IO 2 3 11 19 12 H
18 7 5 8 0 8 55 9 5 1 10 46 11 42 12 37
19
7 28 8 2 3 9 18 IO 14 11 9 12 5 *3 0
20 7 51 8 47 9 4 2 IO 37 11 3 2 12 28 *3 2 3
21 8 *3 9 9 10 5 11 0 11 55 I2 5 1 13 40
22 8 36 9 32 J 10 28 11 23 I2 19 >3 14 M IO
23 8 58 9 54 10 5° 11 46 12 42 *3 37 H 33
24 9 21 IO J7 11 12 12 8 J3 4 14 O H 55
25 9 43 ]0 39 11 35 12 3 o 13 26 M 22 *5 18
26 IO 5 11 1 11 57 12 52 13 4 ® H 44 15 40
27 IO 26 11 23 12 19 13 14 14 IO J5 6 16 2
28 JO 48 11 45 12 41 »3 36 14 3 2 *5 28 l6 24
29 11 9 12 6 *3 2 13 58 14 54 J5 5 ° 16 46
1 3° i 1 31 I2 27 13 23 *4 19 *5 15 I 16 11 *7 7.1
Digitized by Goo: Original from
mp\a/ v n e ^ di im ir i i r e a r v
O P A S T R O L O G Y . 547
A T able of D eclinations.— N o r t h Latitude._______
O L 2 3 4 1 S
6 1
n d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m , r
0 11 3 1
IO 3 5 9 3 9 8 4 3 7 46 6 5° 5 54
1 I I 5 2 IO 56 IO 0 9 4 8 7 7 1 1 6 *5
2 12 1 3 I I *7 IO 2 0 9 2 4 8 2 8 7 3 1 6 35
3 12 3 3 1I 37 IO 4 0 9 4 4 8 4 8 , 7 5 1 6 55
. 4 12 5 4
11 58 11 1 IO 4 9 8 8 1 1 7 >5
5 1 3 * 4 12 1 8 11 2 1 IO 2 4 9 2 8 8 3 1 7 35
6 *3 3 4 12 3 8 1 1 41 IO 4 4 9 4 8 8 5 1 7 54
7 ‘3 . 5 4
12 5 8 I 2 1 11 4
I O
1
. 7 9 1 0 8 *3
8 1 4 m 1 3 J7 12 2 0 1 1 2 3
I O 2 6 8 2 9 8 3 2
9 14 3 3 l3 3 6 1 2 3 9 11 4 2 I O 45 9 4 8 8 5 1
IO H 52 l3 55 1 2
5 8
I 2 1 1 I 4 1 0
7 9 1 0
I 1
* *
1 1 1 4 1 4 *3 *7 1 2 2 0 1 1 23 1 0
25 9 2 8
1 2
t
*5 2 9 3 2 *3 35 1 2
3 8
I I 4 i 1 0
43 9 4 6
»3 , >5 4 « 1 4 5 0 *3 53 1 2 56 1 1 59 1 1 1 IO 4
1 6 6
J5 8 M 1 1 *3 H 1 2
l 7
1 1
1 9
IO 2 2
*5 1 6 2 4 1 5
2 6 1 4 2 9 1 J3 3 1
1 2 3 4 1 1 36 1 0
39
1 6 l 6 4 1 l S 43 1 4 4 6 13 4 8 1 2 5 1
1 1
53 IO 56
1 7
1 6 5 8 1 6 0
*5 3 H 5 J3 8 1 2 1 0 . 1 1
*3
1 8 *7 1 5
1 6
*7 *5 2 0
*4 2 | 2 '3 2 4 1 2 2 6 1 1 2 9
*9 3 2 1 6 34 l 5
36 J4 3 8 1 3 4 0 1 2 4 2 1 1 45
2 0 1 7 4 8 1 6 5 ° *5 5 2 J4 54 *3 56 1 2 5 8 1 2 1
2 1 1 8 4 J7 6 1 1 6 8 *5 1 0 1 4 1 2 *3 1 4 1 2 l 6
2 2 1 8 2 0 J7 2 2 1 6 2 4 *5 1 4 2 8 J3 2 9 1 2 3 1 :
23 ' 1 8 35 3 7 37 1 6 39 3 5 41 H 43 *3 44 I 2 4 6
____ i
2 4 1 8
5° >7 52 1 6 5 4 *5 5 6 1 4 5 8 13 59 *3 1
2 5 l 9 5 1 8
7 J7 8 I O 1 0 *5 1 2 3 4 1 3 *3 r5 ■
2 6 19 *9 |1 1 8 2 1 *7 2 3
l 6 2 ? 15 2 6 H 2 7 *3 29
27 *9 33 | 3 8 35 *7 <36 l 6 3 8 3 5 .39 1 4 4 i 1 3 4 2
2 8 “ 1 9 4 7 1 1 8 4 8 *7 5 ° 1 6 5 1 *5 52 : 1 4 54 *3 55
2 9 2 0 0
1 *9 1 . 1 8 . 3 I 1 7 4 1 6 5 »5 7 H 8
3° 2 0 1 3 1 j9 1 4 1 8 1 6 1 7 7 *7 1 6 18 *5 2 0 14 2 1
No. 27. 6S 2
Digitized by Google Original from
m p u / v n o t ' D i i m 1r i i r r a r v
A T able of D e c l i n a t i o n ^ . — Sauth L a t i t u d e .
O 1 2 3 4 1
*
<
;—
n d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m .
o 11 3 1 12 2 7 1 3 2 3 H 1 9 15 1 5 l 6 n
1 7 7
i I I 5 2 12 4 8 1 3 4 4 1 4 4 0 *5 36 l 6 3 3 1 7 2 9
2 1 2 1 3 1 3 9 1 4 5 1 5 1 15 5 7 l 6 5 4 17 5°
3 3 3 1 3 2 0 1 4 2 5 1 5 2 1 1 6 1 8 *7 1 4 1 8 1 0
4 12 5 4 1 3 56 1 4 4 6 15 4 2 1 6 3 9 ; 1 7 35 1 8 3 1
5 1 3 1 4 *4 11 1 5 7 1 6 3 1 7 0
17 56 1 8 5 2
6
1 3 3 4 1 4 3 1 1 5 2 7 1 6 2 4 1 7 2 0 j 8 1 7 1 9 1 3
7 1 3 5 4 1 4 5 1 1 5 47 1 6 4 4 1 7 4 0 18 3 7 *9 33
8 1 4 1 4 1 5 11 1 6 7 !7 4 1 8 0 1 8 5 7 T9 53
9 *4 33 1 5 3° 1 6 2 6 1 7 2 3 1 8 2 0 19 1 7 2 0 13
I O 1 4 5 2 *5 49 1 6 45 1 7 4 2 18 39 1 9 3 6 2 0 33
11
15 11 l 6 8 1 7 4 1 8 1 1 8 5 8 19 5 5 2 0
5 2
1 2 15 2 9 1 6 2 6
17 2 3 18 2 0 19 1 7 2 0 1 4 2 1 11
*3 1 5 40 1 6 45 *7 4 2 1 8 3 9 1 9 36 2 0 3 3 2 1 3°
H i 6 1 7 3 1 8 0 1 8 5 7 1 9 5 4 2 0 5 2 2 1 49
*5 16 2 4 *7 2 1 1 8 18 1 9 1 5 2 0 12 2 1 1 0 2 2 7
1 6 l 6 41 J7 3 s . 8 3 6 1 9 33 2 0 3 0 2 1 2 8 2 2 2 5
17 1 6 5 8 1 7 55 18 53 ] 9 5 1 2 0 4 8 21 4 6 2 2 43
. i 8 ■17 15 18 12 19 1 0 2 0 8 21 5 2 2 3 2 3 0
i 9 ! 7 32 1 18 2 9 19 2 7 2 0 2 5 21 2 3 2 2 2 0 2 3 *7
2 0 I 7 4 8 1 8 4 6 19 44 2 0 4 i 21 3 9 2 2 3 7 2 3 3 4
2 1 18 4 1 9 2 2 0 O 2 0 57 21 5 5 2 2 5 3 2 3 5 »
2 2 18 2 0 1 9 1 8 2 0 1 6 2 1 *3 2 2 11 2 3 9 2 4 7
2 3 18 35 l 9 3 4 2 0 32 21 2 9 2 2 2 7 2 3 2 5 2 4 2 3
2 4 1 8 5° : 1 9 4 9 2 0 47 21 45 2 2 4 3 ' 2 3 4 1 2 4 39
2 5 1 9 5 2 0
3 ! 2 1
1
2 2 2 0 2 2 5 8 2 3 5 6 2 4 5 4
2 6 1 9 1 9 2 0 17 2 1 1 6 2 2 1 4 2 3 1 2 2 4 11 2 c 9
2 7 1 9 33 2 0 3 1 21 3° 1 2 2 2 8 2 3 2 6 2 4 2 5 2 5 2 3
2 8
; 1 9 47 1 2 0 45 21 44 2 2 4 2 2 3 4 0 2 4 3 9 25 37
: 2 9 2 0 0 2 0 59 ‘ 2 1 47 2 2 56 2 3 5 4 2 4 5 3 2 5 5 1 ,
r 3° 2 0 13 21 1 2 2 2 J O 2 3 9 2 4 , 7 6 > . 1 1 ;
Digitized by G ( X >2 l 0 Original from
m c \/u v n e f c ' o i i m i r i i b r a d v
A T able of D e c l in a t io n s .— North Latitude.
O 2 0
* 4
1
> !
1 6
t d. m
. d. m
. d. m
. d. m
. d. m
. d. m
. d. 1
1
1
.
Q 20 * 3 l 9 14 1
8 16 ! 7 ’ 7
16 1
8 * 5 20 14 2
1
I 20 26 * 9 27 1
8 28 * 7 29 16 30 1
5 32 14 33
2 20 3 8 1 9 3 9 18 40 * 7 4
1 16 42 * 5 44 h 45
3 20 5 ° * 9 5 1 1
8 52 1
7 5 3 1
6 54 1 5 55 J4 57
4 21 J 20 2 19 3
1
8 4 * 7 5 16 7 1 5 8
5 2
1 * 3 20 J 3 l 91 5
1
8 1
6 * 7 * 7 16 1
8 1 5 1 9
6 21 23 20 2 4 1 9 25 1
8 26 * 7 27 16 28 * 5
28 ,
7 21 3 3 20 3 4 J 9 3 5 1
8 3 6 1
7 3 7 16 38 J 5 3 »
8 21 4 3
20 4 4 19 4 5 18 46 * 7 4 7 1
6 47 1
5 48 '
9 2
1 5 3 20 5 4 » 9 5 5 1
8 56 J 7 5 6 16 57 ' 5 5 8
10 22 2 2
1 3 20 4 1 9 5 1
8 5 * 7 6 10 6
1
1 22 IO 2
1 1
1 20 1
2 1 9 * 3 1
8 1 3 * 7 H l6 * 4
12 22 19 2
1 * 9 20 20 1
9 2
1 1
8 2
1 17 22 l6 12
* 3 22 27 2
1 28 20 28 * 9 28 1
8 29 2 7 29 l6 29
14 22 34 2
1 3 5 20 3 5 J 9 3 5 , j8 3 6 17 36 16 36
1 5 22 41 2
1 4 i 20 41 1 9 41 1
8 42 * 7 42 ib 4 2
16 22 47 2
1 4 7 20 4 7 1
9 4 7 18 48 ' 17 48 16 48
1 7 22 5 3 2
1 S3 20 5 3 ' 9 5 3 1
8 5 4 1 7 5 4 1
0 5 4
18 22 5 9 2
1 5 9
20 5 9 * 9 5 9 * 9 0 1
8 0 l 7 0
19 2 3 4 22 4 2
1 4 20 4 J 9 5 1
8 5 '7 5
20 23 9 22 9 2
1 9 20 9 19 10 1
8 10 * 7 10 |
2
1 23 * 3
22 * 3 21 J 3
20 1 3 J9 14 1
8 H * 7 * 4
22 23 17 22 J 7 2
1 * 7
20 * 7 1
9 n 1
8 r 7 * 7 * 7
2 3 23 20 22 20 21 20 20 20 19 2 0 1
8 20 * 7 20
i 24 23 23 22 23 2
1 23 20 23 *9 23 j8 23 : 7 23
;
i 2 5 23 26 22 26 2
1 26 20 26 19 26 1
8 26 17 26
26 23 28 122 a8 21 28 20 28 l 9 28 1
8 28 J 7 28
27 23 3 ° 22 3° 21 3 ° 20 3 ° 19 3 ° 1
8 3o 17 30
; 28 2 3 3 1 22 31 2
1 3 l 20 3 i 1
9 3 1 1
8 3 1 * 7 3 1
! 29 23 3 1 22 3i 2
1 3 1 20 3 1 19 3 1 1
8 3i > 7 3 1
. 23 32 22 32 21 3 2
20 32 1
9 32 1
8 32 J7 32 ,1
Digitized by Google Original from
MPiAf v n o t ' D i i m 1r 1 i d d a d v
Digitized
AT able ofD eclina tions.— SouthLatitude..
O 1 2 5 4 5 <
X d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
0 20 J 3 21 12 22 10 23 9 24 7 25 6 26 4
1 20 26 21 25 22 23 23 22 24 20 25 19 26 *7
2 20 38 21 37 22 36 23 35 24 33 25 32 26 30
3 20 5° 21 49 22 48 23 47 24 45 25 44 26 43
4 21 I 22 0 22 59 23 58 24 57 25 55 26 55
5 21 J3 22 11 23 10 24 9 25 8 26 7 27 6
6 21 23 22 22 23 21 24 .20 25 19 26 18 27 17
, '
21 33 22 32 23 3 1 24
3 1 1 25 3 ° 26 29 27 28
8 21 43 22 42 23 4 i 24 4 i 25 40 26 39 27 38
9 21 53 22 52 23 5 1 24 5 i 25 50 26 49 27 4 8
10 22 2 23 I 24 0 25 0 25 59 26 58 27 57
11 22 IO 2 3 10 . 24 9 25 9 26 8 27 7 28 6
1 12 22 19 23 »9 24 18 25 18 ' 26 «7 27 l6 28 15
i 22 27 23 27 24 26 25 26 26 25 27 24 28 24
14 || 22 3+ 23 34 24 33 25 33 26 3 2 27 3 1 28 3 *
!
_
_
_
_
_ 1
1 22
1 4 1 23 4 1 24 40 25 39 26 39 27 38 28 38
16 22 47 2 3 47 24 46 25 45 26 45 27 45 28 44
17 22 53 23 53 24 53 25 52 26 5 2 27 52 28 5 i
iS 22 59 I 23 59 24 59 25 58 26 58 27 58 28 57
19 4 ! 24 4 25 4 26 3 27 3 28 3 29 2
I 20 23 9 ;' 24 9 25 9 26 8 27 8 28 8 29 7
21 23 *3 24 *3 25 13 26 *3 27 *3 28 12 29 12
22 2 3 17 24 l 7 25 *7 26 17 27 16 28 16 29 16
23 23 20 24 20 25 2° 26 20 27 i 9 28 >9 29 1 9
24 23 23 24 23 25 23 26 23 27 22 28 22 29 22
25 23 26 24 26 25 26 26 26 27 25 28 25 29 25
26 23 2.8 24 28 25 28 26 28 27 28 28 28 29 28
27 23 3° 24 3° 25 30 26 3 0 27 3° 28 3 ° 29 3°
28 23 3 1 24 3 1 25 3 J 26 3 i 27 3 1 28 3 i 29 3 i
29 23 3 i 24 3 1 25 31 26 3 1 27 3 1 28 31 29 3 1
3° 23 3 2 24 « 0
25 3 2 26 3 2 27 32 28 3 2 29 32 *
»Google Original from
w p a / v n p t ' D i i m 1r 1 i r e a r v
3
i
f
i
n
n
f
i
-
n
r
l
-
w
-
3
c
;
n
c
e
p
n
^
P
/
F
i
i
n
n
^
n
n
n
h
p
i
r
A
A
A
A
A
A
//:
r
ln
i
i
/
n
p
i
7
n
i
F
i
i
n
-
3
i
f
i
n
n
n
'
i
i
i
p
i
i
i
n
n
T A B L E S
S H E W I N G T H E
A S C E N S I O N A L D I F F E R E N C E S
O F T H E
P L A N E T S .
No. 2 6T 3
Digitized by Goosle Original from
M C I A / V r i R ^ Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
Digitized by Google Original from
M C I A / Dl I P I I r I I D B A D V
O F A o T K O L
i U U X. 553
A T a b le of A scensional D ifferences to 60 Degrees of Latitude.
2 3 t 5 (
5 7
p
d.
8 9
> 1
d.
O
d. m
. d. ID
. d. m
. d. m
. d. m
. d. m
. d. in. m
. d
. m
. m
.
I O I O 2 O 3 O 4 O 5 O 6 O 7 O 8 O 9 O 11
2 6 2 O 4 O 6 O 8 O 10 O J3 O 15 O *7 O *9 O 21
3 O 3 0 6 O 9 O >3 O 16 O 19 O 22 O 25 O 29 O 32
4 O 4 0 8 O 13 O *7 O 21 O 25 O 3 ° 0 34 O 38 O 42
5 0 5 0 IO O l6 O 21 O 26 O 32 O 37 O 42 O 48 O 53
z, 6 O 0 13 O 19 O 25 O 32 O 38 O 44 O 5 1 O 57 I 4
7 0 7 0 15 O 22 O 3C O 37 O 44 O 52 O 59 1 7 1 *4
0 8 0 8 0 >7 O 25 O 3 J O 42 0 5 1 0 59 I 8 I 16 I 25
9 0 9 0 19 O 29 O 38 O 48 1 57 1 7 1 16 I 26 1 36
10 O I 1 0 21 O 32 O 4 2 O 53 I ‘
4 I 14 1 25 1 3 6 I 47
—
* 11 O 0 23 O 35 O 47 O 58 10 I 22 I 34 I 46 I 58
12 O *3 0 25
28
O 38 O 5 1 1 4 1 17 1 3° 1 43 1 56 2 9
< J3 O 14 0 0 42 O 56 1 9 I 23 1 37 ! 52 2 6 2 20
14 O 15 0 3° 0 43 I O 1 J5 1 3° 1 45 I 1 2 16 2 3 *
-5 0 l6 0 3 2 0 48 I 4 I 21 I 37 I 53 2 10 2 26 2 42
O *7 0 34 0 52 1 9 1 26 1 44 2 1 2 J9 2 36 2 54
I 0 18 0 37 0 55 1 14 1 321 1 5° 2 9 2 28 2 47 3 5
-3 I 0 19 0 3 >
. 0 59 l8 1 38 I 57 2 17 ~2 37 2 57 3 *7
l'> 0 21 0 41 I 2 1 23 1 44 2 4 2 25 2 46 3 8 3 29
20 0 22 0 44 ( 6 I 27 1 49 2 I 2 2 3 + 2 56 3 18 3 4 *
4j 2 1 0 23 0 46 1 9 I 3 2 1 55 2 19 2 4 1 3 6 3 29 3 53
22 0 24 0 49 I x3 1 37 2 2 2 26 2 5° 3 ! 5 3 4° 4 5
Q 23 0 25 0 5 1 I 17 1 42 2 8 2 33 2 59 3 25 3 5 1 4 18
24 0 27 0 53 I 20 1 47 2 *4 2 4 1 3 0 3 35 4 3 4 3 o
25 0 28 I 0 56 I 24 1 52 2 20 2 49 3 J7 3 45 4 H 4 43
o 26 0 29 0 59 1 28 1 57 2 27 2 56 3 26 3 59 4 26 4 56
27 0 3 1 I 1 1 3'2 2 3 2 33 3 4 3 35 4 6 4 3y 5 9
. /)
28
29
0
0
32
33
I
1
4
7
1
1
36
40
2
2
8
13
2
2
40
47
3
3
12
20
3
3
45
54
4
4
J7
28
4
5
5°
2,
5
5
23
37
w' 3° 0 35 1 9 1 44 2 i 9 2 54 3 29 4 4 4 39 5 *5! 5 5 1
3 1 0 36 I 12 1 48 2 24 3 1 3 37 4 J4 4 5 1 5 28 6 5
w 32 O 37 I *5 I 53 2 3 ° 3 8 3 46 4 24 5 2 5 4 i 6 2 0
a j
33 0 3 9 I 18 I 57 2 3 6 3 *5 3 55 4 34 5 14 5 54 6 35
34 O 40 I 21 2 2 2 4 2 3 2 3 4 4 4 45 5 26 6 8 6 5°
0 35 0 42 1 24 2 6 2 48 3 3 1 4 J 3 .4 56 5 39 6 2 2 7 6
36 O 44 I 2 7 2 11 2 55 3 39 4 2 3 5 7 5 5 2 6 36 7 2 2
■M 37 O 45 1 3° 2 16 3 2 3 47 4 33 5 18 6 5 6
51 7 3 8
38 O 47 I 34 2 21 3 8 3 55 4 43 5 30 6 18 7 6 7 55
•Q 39 O 49 1 37 2 26 3 15 4 4 4 53 5 42 6 3 2 7 22 8
13
40 O 5° I 4 1 2 31 3 22 4 13 5 4 5 55 6 46 7 38 8
3 1
4 i ,° 5 2 1 44 2 37 3 29 4 2 2 5 15 6 8
7 1 7 55 8 49
4 2 O 54 I 48 2 4 2 3 37 4 31 5 26 6 21 7 l 6 8 12 9 8
43 O 56 I 5 2 2 48 3 44 4 41 5 38 6 34 7 32 8
3° 9 28
44 O 58 i 1 56 2 54 3 52 4 5 1 5 5° 6 49 . 7 4 » 8 4 8
9 48
145 1 0 i 2 0 3 0 4 1 5 1 6 2 7 3 8 5 9 7 1 0 9
Digitized by Google Original from
MCIA/ V n R t ' Dl IP I Ir I ID R A R V
A T a b l e of A s c e n s i o n a l . D i f f e r e n c e s , &c.
a 3 I 5 <
5 7 8
V
r•
<
9 IO
d. m
. d. m
. iL m
. d. m
. m
. d. m
. ' d. m
. d. m. :d. hi. d. m
.
46 I 2 2 4 3 7 4 9 5 12 6 15 7 18 •8 22 9 29 O 31
1
1 ' 47 I 4 2 9 3 >3 4 18 5. 23 6 28 7 34 -8 4O 9 47 IO 54
4h I 7 2 *3 3 20 4 27 5 35 6 42 7 50 8 59 10 b 11 1s
49; 1 9 2 19 3 27 4 37 5 47 6 57 8 •7 9 •7 10 3C 11 42
. 5° I 12 2 23 3 35 4 47 5 59 7 11 8 2; 9 3 ? ID S3 12 8
z 5 1 I 14 2 28 3 43 4 .5 7 6 12 7 ' 27 8 43 10 0 11 >7 i I 3 <
52 I J7 2 34 3 51 5 6 26 7 44 9 3 10 22 U 42 13 3
w 53 1 20 2 39 3 59 5 19 6 4c 8 1 9 23 10 45 12 ■
8 J3 32
M 54 I 23 2 45 4 8 5 31 6 •55 8 19 9 43 11 c I2 35 H *
55 1 26 2 52 4 18 5 44 7 11 8 38 10 6 11 35 r 3 4 14 35
b 56 I 29 2 58 4 27 5 57 7 ;
?27 8 5» 10 29 12 2 •3 351 15 c
57
_O
I 32. 3 5 4 38 J 11 7 44 9 19 10 54 12
3 ° H
1
7 15 45
58 I 36; 3 12 4 49 6 26 8 2 9 41 11 .20 *3 0 ‘4 4 1 16 2
z; 59
Z
I 40 3 20 5 O 6 41 8 ■
22' 10 4 n 48 J3 32 15 >7 J7 4
Q
O
A,
I 44! 3 28 5 21 6 57 8 43 10 2Q; I2 17 14 5 J5 55 J7 47
M OI I 48; 3 37 5 25 7 kl5 9 5 10 5612 48 l4 45 10 3 6 18 33
I 53 3 46 5 39 7 33 9 28 11 2+13 21 »5 20 *7 20 '9 22
‘•3
/
I 58 3 ' 5& 5 54 7 53 9 53 11 5413 57 16 i 18 7 20 15
64
c
2 3 4 6 6 10 8 *5 10 20 12 2714 55 16 45 18 57 21 12
^5 2 9 4 18 6 27 8 37 10 49 13 215 16
7 32 ‘9 5 1 22 13
06
/ _ -2 l 5 4 3° 6 46 9 2 11 20 13 3916 1 18 2 : 20 5C23 20
7
/rO
2 21 4 33 7 6 9 29 11 55 H 20 16 49 19. 2: 21 55 24 ■
3
3
Q O
O 2 29 4 57 7 27 9 58 12 3° l S 5 57 42 20 21 23 5 25 a
69 2 36 5 ■
J 3 7
n 51 IO 30 '3 10 *5 53 18 36 21 2r 24 23 27 21
70 2 45 5 3 ° 8
rj J7 11 5 •3 55 t6 47 19 *3 22 43 25 48 28 59
71 2 54 5 49 8 45 11 43 *4 43 J7 46 20 53 24 5 27 •3 30 48
72 3 5 6
/
10 9 17. 12 26 15 37 18 52 22 12 25 38 29 10 32 52
n 73 3 16 6 34 9 52 13 1? ;6 38 20 6 23 41 27 22 3 1 12 i s
74 3 29 7 c lO 32 H 7 17 46 21 30.25 21 29 21 33 32 31 56
a 75
_ / 3 44 7
O 29 11 *7 15 8 19 3 ,23 6 27 10 3 1 38 36 H 4 i 9
l
TI
7^ 4 1 8
0
3 12 b 16 *7 xo 33 24 5 29 38 34 *9 39 26 45 1
77
_ O
4 20 8 42 t 3 7 '7 3^ 22 16 27 32 8 37 3 c 43 J9 49 48
V 78 4 43 9 27 14 it ‘9 12 24 18 29 38 35 *7 4 1 2 3 48 10 56 3
79
O 5 9 iO 2f f5 38 21 4 26 45 32 44 39 10 46 18 54 54 65 7
0 O 5 4 i 11 25 17 J7 23 22 29 45 39 3 -
f44 8 52 51 63 55 90 0
0I
r)
6 *9 !2 4 19 *9 26 12 33 32 41 35 50 5° 6 2 33 90 0
S2
r
\ 7 8 *4 23 21 54 29 50 38 30 48 24 60 33 90 c
83 8 io l6 3 * 25 i t 34 43 45 2/ 58 52 90 0
Q 84 9 34 *9 24 29 55 41 4 56 21 90 c
85 11 27 23 3 136 49 53 0 90 O
86 14 3 ' 30 58 48 23 90 0
5? 19 27 41 47 90 0
88 36 5 1 90 . 0
1
8^ 90 c
/•
I90
— _1
_
Digitized by Gcx 2le Original from
MP I A S v n c f c ' D l l R I i r I I D Q A D V
5 5 5
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T a b l e of A s c e n s i o n a l D i f f e r e n c e s , S
ee.
1 | 12 *3 >4 1 1
;
> 10 i 17 18 19 0
cl. m . ! d. m . d . m . d. m . 1 <*• m . >
1
. m . a . m . d . m . <1. i n . d f i n.
1 1 0 1 2 l
O *3 O »4 0 15 O 16 0 17 0 1 ' O
1 9
0 21 O 22
j 2 0 23 O 25 O 28 0 3 °
O 3 2 c 34 0
37 O
39 0 42 O 44
'3 0 35 O 3 8 O 42 0 45 O 481 0 52 0 54 O 59 1 2! 1 6
4 0 47 O 51 O 56 1 0 1
4 !
' 1 9 1 14 I 18 1
23 1 2 / -
0 5 0 5h 1
4I
r 9 1 i5j I 21 1 26 1 32 1 38 1 4 4 I 49
6 I 10 1 j?! 1 23 I 3° I 37 1 44 1 5° 1 57 2 4 ! 2 12
— 7 I 22 I 3° 1 37 I 45 I 53 2 1 2 9 2 *7 2 25! 2 34
8 I 35 1 431 1 5 2 2 0 2 9 2 10 2 28 2 37 2 46 2 56
j‘ 91 1 46 1 56 2 6 2 16, 2 26 2 36 2 43 2 5 - 3 8
3
18
|< 1C I 58 2 9 2 20 2 31 2 42 2 54 3 5 3 17 3 3° 3 4i
11 2 IO 2 22 2 34 2 47 2 59 3 12 3 24 3 37 3 5° 4 3
£ 12 2 22 2 35 2 49 3 2 3 16 3 30 3 44 3 58 4 12 4 26
«3 2 3 4 2 49 3 3 3 18 3 33 3 48 4 3 4 18 4 34 4 49
14 2 47 3 2 3 18 3 34 3 5o 4 6 4 22 4 3 9 4 5o 5 12
J D5 2 59 3 l6 3 33 3 5° 4 7 4 24 4 42 5 0 5 18 5 36
l6 3 I2 3 3 0 3 48 4 6 4 24 4 43 5 2 5 2i! 5 4°- 5 59l
U 17 3 24 3 4 4 4 3 4 22 4 42 5 2 5 22 5 421 6 2 6 23
18 3 37 3 5» 4 18 4 39 5 0 5 21 5 42 6 4 1 9 25 6 47
•9 3 5° 4 12: 4 34 4 55 5 18 5 4 0 6 3 6 26 6 49 7 12
3 20 4 3 4 26 4 49 5 12 5 36 5 59 6 24 6 48 7 12 7 37
21 4 *7 4 4 1 ; 5 5 5 3° 5 54 6 »9 6 45 7 10 7 36 8 2
22 4 3° 4 5 6 ; 5 21 5 471 6 J3 6 39 7 6 7 33 8 0 8 27
3 23 4 44 5 11 5 37 6 5, 6 32 6 59 7 27 7 56 8 24 8
53
24 4 58 5 26 5 54! 6 2 3 !
- 6 5i 7 20 7 49 8 19 8 49 9 19
'25 5 12 5 4' 6 11 6 41 7 11 7 4i 8 12 8 43 9 14 9 46
I26
I 5 26 5 57 6 28 6 59 7 31 8 2 8 35 9 / 9 40 ;0 14
r
£
l 27 5 41 6 13 6 45; 7 18 , 7 51 8 24 8 58, 9 32 10 6 10 4i
28 5 56 6 29 7 3 7 37! 8 11 8 4 6 9 21 9 57 10 33 11 9.
Jj.29 6 11 6 46 7 21 7 57 8 32 9 9 9 45 10 23 11 0 11 38i
,3 ° 6 2- 7 3 7 4 0 : 8 i7 8 54 9 32 10 10 10 49 11 28 12 8
3» 6 42 7 2 C 7 59 8 37 9 16 9 55 i° 35 11 16 11 56 12 38
32 6 59 7 3« 8 181 8 5° 9 38 10 19-11 1 11 43 12 25 13 9
33 7 *5 7 56 8
37 9 i9 IO 1 I G 44 1 1 27 12 11 12 55 13 4°
34 7 32 8 151 8 57 9 41 I O 25 II 9ji1 54 12 4 0 !3 26 H 13
35 7 49 8 34 9 l 8 IO 3 I O 49 11 35:i 2 22 •3 9 >3 57 14 46
Q 36 8 7 8 53 9 39 IO 26 I I 13 12 1 12 5° »3 39 14 29 15 2 0
37 8 25 9 13 10 11
1° 5° \ 1 39 12 2913 10 14 10 15 2 15 55
38 8 44 9 3410 23 11 14 12 5 12 57,13 45 H 42 15 3 6 16 31
39 9 3 9 55 10 4 6 I I 39 12 3 2 1 3 2614 20 15 15 1-6 11 17 8
'40 9 23 10 16 11 10 12 5 13 O»3 5514 5 i l5 49I16 48
M M
No. 28. ' T u
Digitized by
vGoogle Original from
KIPAf v n c f c ' di i p 1 1r 1 I P P A P V
uuiiidiii,
ouuy
ic-uiy
lu^eu
/
i
ill
|
j
.//
vvvvvv
.
i
idu
nu
ubL.ui
y/ciLt.ebb_ube-ff-pu-yuuy
it;
Digitizer
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T a b l e of A scensional D i f f e r e n c e s , &c.
II
d. m.
o
<
z
J
V
a
a
n
a
a
a
o
a
Q
f2
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
5°
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
5*
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
9
10
10
10
11
11
12
12
12
'3
*3
*4
H
15
16
16
*7
18
18
l 9
20
21
22
23
24
25
27
28
30
32
44
5
27
49
13
37
2
28
55
24I
ia
d. in.
10
11
11
11
12
12
*3
13
14
14
39
2
26
51
16
43
11
ij
d . i n.
I 1
I2
I 2
12
*3
13
*4
3944
53*5
2415
57
31
16
17
7j*7
4518
25 19
7,19
5220
4021
32
37
26
29
3«
53
J5
45
25
22
23
24
25
27
28
3°
3 1
33
9
40
*3
47
23
1
40
22
6
52
43
36
23
34
39
35
o
26
53
21
50
20
5 *
•4
d . m .
12
12
l5
d . in.
»3
13
H
15
16
*5
‘5
16
'7
*7
18
*9
2C
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
24 l6
58
3 *
58
27
56
28
58
3°
5
40
17
3417
1i t 18
5°j19
3220
*5
1
49
20
21
22
5028
7 29
31
3
45
37
3 1
32
34
36 58
4 *23
3624
34 25
3726
4427
57 29
15 3°
4132
14 34
57|35
5138
13 35 44 39
7 1,34
7236
73(39
74 42
22
45
29
4 i
75 46 3° 5 2
7651 14
57 21
06 8
90
77
78
79
38
40
44
47
58
67
90
7
5 1
3
S°
3°
29
2
42
45
49
53
59
67
90
22
6
*7
2
37
3°
49
o
r3
13
'4
«5
15
16
16
17
>7
18
*9
20
20
21
22
23
22
25
26
27
28
30
3 1
33
35
37
d ?
*7
56
37
19
4
52
42
35
3 1
3 1
35
44
58
18
45
lo
3
58
40
43
46
50
1
6
d . in.
'4
*4
15
16
16
*7
28
58
28
o
33
7
4217
1918
57>9
3 7 /9
19(20
321
5° 22
3823
3024
2425
22 26
2327
2928
3929
5431
36!32
44 34
1936
20
58
31
5
40
10
54
34
'7
d . m .
15
r5
16
*7
»7
18
*9
19
16 20
59(21
4422
32.23
2223
59
34
10
48
27
8
5 i
36
22
11
2
56
■
s
d. m.
16
*7
:s
18
19
20
21
21
22
23
24
25
24
1
38
17
58
4
23
i,
57
47
39
34
35
‘9
d . m .
17
18
18
19
20
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
1524 53:26 3428
1025 53:27 39 29
926 57'28 40J30
1228
>9
3°
47
9
38
*5
1
44
47
3°
14
23 5 x
7|55
54 3861
60 17(69
68 3190
90 o
4
o
8
33
16
24
37
40
42
45
,48
51
29
(30
3»
33
35
36
38
5
18
35
5834
2835
6 37
52
49
5640 58
6
3°
13
20
43
46
49
52
5957
656 2362 3770 40
33
1369
890
61 57
42
o
22
4
10
48
8
70
90
12
30
3 1
32
122
2033
44
39
41
44
46
49
53
57
63
53
4°
37
4c
10
5 2
34
j 536
38
40
I 2
44
47
5°
25
4
44
25
8
53
4°
29
20
15
I o
9
II
>7
27
42
1
26
58
37 39
25(41
2243
3445
5448
2
0
d . m .
18 2;,
•9
19 5C
20 35
21 21
22
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
3°
3 1
32
34
35
3T
56 54
52 58
5°
'3
90 o
63
7 1
90
36
39
J3
27
47
5
o
5 i
54
59
64
7 1
90
58
5 1
45
42
43
46
53
4
19
39
5
3 7
J 7
5
3
12
35
16
19
5 °
2
16
28
o
Google Original from
M
P/i/ D
l IPIIr IIRPAPV
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 557
AT a b l e of A sc e n sio n a l D i f f e r e n c e s , &c.
21 1
d . m .
23
d . m .
23
d. m .
2
4
d. m
.
2S
d. in.
26
d. m .
%7
d . m .
&
d. m . d .
*9
i n. d.
3 0
m .
l O 23 O 24 O 25 O 27 0 28 0 29 0
3 1 0 3 2 O 33 O 35
2 O 46 O 49 O 55 O
53 0 56 0 59 1 1 1 4 I 7 p * 9
•
t~w 3 I 9 I * 3
I 17 1 20 1 24 1 28 1
3 2 1 36 I 4 0 1 44
*/
4 I 32 I 37 1 42 1 47 1 52 1
57 2 2 8 2 13 2 1 9
o 5 I 55 2 2 2 8 2 14 2 20 2 27 2 33 2 40 2 47 2 54
w
6 2 19 2 26 2 33 2 4 * 2 49 2 56 3 4 3 12 3 20 3 29
>
—
i
7 2 42 2 5 1 2 59 3 8 3 17 3 26 3 35 3 45 3 54 4 4
r. 8 3 6 3 15 3 25 3 35 3 45 3 56 4 6 4 17 4
l 8 4 39
r4
9 3 29 3 40 3 5 1 4 3 4 «4 4 26 4 38 4 5° 5 2
0 5 15
< 10 3 53 4 5 4 18 4 3 ° 4 53 4 56 5 9 5 23 5
✓ 3s 5
/ 5 1
11 4 17 4 3 ° 4 44 4 58 5 12 5 26 5 4 1 5 56 6
*
■
11
/
6 27
z; 12 4 41 4 56 5 I 1 5 26 5 4 1 5 57 6 13 6 29 6 46 7 3
13 $ 5 5 21 5 3* 5 54 6 1) 6 28 6 45 7 3 7 21 7 40
‘
-H
*4 5 3° 5 47 6 5 6 22 6 4 i 6 59 7 18 7 37 7 56 8
O >7
J 15 5 54 6 ! 3 6 32 6 5 1 7 11 7 3 1 7 5 1 8 11 8 32 8 54
16 6 1 9 6 39 6 59 7 20 7 4 i 8 3 8 24 8 '46 9 8 9 32
o *7 6 441 7 0 7 27 7 49 8 12 8 35 8 5 8 9 25
✓ 9 45 10 10
Ih 7 10 7 33 7 56 8 ‘9 8 43 1 9 7 9 3 2 9 56 10 23 10 49
0
Jd
*9 7 36 8 0 8 24 8 49 9 H 9 40 10 6 10 33 11 0
r\
11 28
O
20 8 2 8 27 8 53 9 *9 9 46 10 H 10 4 1 11 9 11 38 12 8
0
21 8 28 8 55 9 23 9 5° 10 19 10 47 11 17 11 46 12 *7
/
12 48
22 8 55 9 24 9 53 10 22 10 52 11 22 n 53 12 24 12 56 r3 29
o 23 9 22 9 5 3 io 23 10 54 11 25 11 57 12 29 l3 313 37 H u
24 9 5° 10 22 10 54 11 26 l i 59 12 33 l3 7 *3 42 14 17 x4 54
25 10 *9 10 52 11 25 11 59 12 34 *3 9 13 45 r4 21 14 59 *5 37
75 26 10 47 11 22 11 57,12 33 13 9 ‘ 3 46 *4 24 *5 2i 41 10 21
✓
C
i3 27 11 *7 11 53 12 29 *3 7 *3 45 *4 23 *5 3 J5 43 16 24
O»7 6
28 11 47 12 24 ‘3 3 f3 4 2 14 21 *5 2 '5 43 16 25 17 8 *7 53
a 29 12 *7 12 5 6 *3 37 *4 18 »4 59 *5 4 1 16 24 *7 8 i 7 54 l8 40
3° 12 48 13 29 '4 11 '4 54 »5 37 16 21 l7 6 *7 53 18 40 *9 28
* 3 1 *3 20 *4 3 H 47 *5 3 » 16 16 J7 2 *7 5° 18 38 »9 27 20 11
0
3 2 '3 53 *4 37 [5 23 16 9 16 56 .*7 45 18 34 »9 24 20 J9 21 9
33 H 26 *5 *316 0 16 48 T7 3818 27, 1 9 2° 20 12 21 6 22 1
rT
~
l 34 *5 0 1 5 49 16 38 *7 29 18 21 *9 2 20 6,21 1 21 57 22 55
35 *5 36 16 26 *7 l 7 18 10 *9 3*9 58 20 54 21 5 1 22 5° 23 5 1
Digitized by Got gle Original from
M P A / V n R k ' Dl I P l i r I I D R A P V
55s AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
i
Z
I
d. m.
1
36 16 121
;37 16 49 i
38) 17 27 t
Z 39 18 61
L i 4°j 18 47 1
|° 4 i 19 3° 2
42 20 13 2
43 20 592
h 44 21 452
45 22 342
< 46 23 26 2
►
* 47,24 18 2
A 48 25 H 2
HH 49 26 12 2
5° 27 132
J 5 1 28 17 2
u 52 29 26 3
53 3° 37 3
54 3 1 543
55 35 >43
0 56 34 4 1 3
57 36 143
<*- 58 37 544
0 59 39 4° 4
60 4 > 5° 4
:/} 61 43 5° 4
62 46 124
w 63 48 53 5
64 5 > 55 5
65 55 236
oj 66 59 346
67 64 44 7
O 68 7 1 4 9 g
69 90 O
ja 70
Q
. i
“■m. I il. in.
7
7
4 j>7
44 18
49,20
34j2 i
20]22
8 23
5824
5°25
44 26
41 27
40 28
42 29
4 7 3 °
58
39
22 20
HI
, r 23
5631 37
832
t2 35
47
HI
22
17
16
25
6
52
39
28
*9
12
34
35
37
38
40
12
44
47
24
d. ni.
18
>9
d. m.
26
d. m.
z 7
d. m,
i 2
S
d. m.
36120
2121
8
3 4
22
21
21
I22
23
24
i25
26
27
. 28 3130
829 3831
3 o 49|
52 3
33 21
44
13
48
56
38
32
20
26
27
22 11
53
5°
46
45
48
52
5434
*7 36
4537
*939
5941
49,43
4745
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
128
29
3°
0I31
11 32
2634
46 35
— 937
36 39 38
38 1440
39 5642
29J41 45 44
x 8 |4 3 4 4 4 6
5
23
23
24
25
\z6
27
28
|32
33
35
d.
53;19 48(20 45!2i 44:22 44*2^
37*24
33(25
3 0 . 2 6
29
ni.
3422 2523
24 23 28 24
1624 22 25
9*25 I926 3C27
5 26 17 27 32 28
327 1838 3629
5 28 22 29 43 31
629 2830 5432
n |3 ° 3832 733
5i 33 24,35
45
41
30 ..
d. i n . il
!24
25
2031
3233
47)34
8 35
3337
2 ' 3 8
38U°
20
57
>9
49 59|53
2752 58)56
28 56 25. ...
I c 60 29 65 54I
365 2172 42
972 2690 o
8 90 o
47
5 °
17
27
49
27
26
52
541
45
147
5° 54
53 5 2
57 3661 38,66 49)73 35)90 o
[66
,72 57i9°
90
4 8
- , r 4 0 5 * 4 1 5 4 5 8 5 8 ^
1651 19:54 37)58 1962-30;
54 J 6 58 0:62 1467 18
57 39,6 i 5 7 |67 24?3 4 6
1 7 6 6
73
H
57
o
' L l - / U " I T
7 3 4 4 6 3 6 2 S 3 8 1 5
2 8 3 6 1 1 3 8 0 3 9
53 37 53 39 3941
23 39 >9 4 * 2143
5941 244 1 1 4 5
4 M 2 53 45 12 47
k 2 33 44 53)47 21 5 °
IO,44 32 47 249
0,46 4 M 9 35 52
*949 452 2|55
6
4 0 J 2 6
4 0 2 7
43 28
4830
56)31
7|3 2
2233
35
36
40
2
43
20
1658
52
155
I62
P7
73
90
3273
11 9°
23
o
90
4 :;;
4 ?!
49,|
5 2l
59)
7
H
I
34
531
161
44
53
37
29
29
39
1
37
33
52
45
3 >
35
o
Digitized by G o c - g l e Original from
MEM/ V n Q k' Dl ID I 1r I ID D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y .
A T a b u of Ascensional D i f f e r e n c e s , 6cc
Z
o
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
.9
ioj
n
I2|
‘ 3
14
‘5
16
17
18
'9
20
21
22
23
24
25
, '27
^ 28
L)
C
iJ
d.
0
I
1
2
3
3
4
4
5
6
6
7
7
8
9
9
10
11
u
12
'3
*4
J5
16
17
17
18
j*
m.
36
1
2
“ J O J/
24 2 30 a 36
1
37
14
5 1
28
5
42
20
58
37
16
d , vn.
° 3 7
1 13
3
3
a ,
3 4 6
4 25
5 2
5 4 1
6 20
6 5 9
7 38
8 1
8
3 2919
3° 20
Q 38 IO
0 19 i°
3 5 11 111
1611 43 l 2
3
47
31
16
2
5°
3819 24
2720 16
l 8 ? l Q 22
0 :
34 3!
5 •
, 36 37 39 40
m
. d. m
. d. m
. a. m
. d. m
. d. ITU d. m
. d. m
39 O 40 O 42 0 44 O 45 O 47' O 49 O 5°
18 21 I 24 1 27 I 31 1 34 1 37 1 4 1
57 2 2 2 6 2 11 2 16 2 21 2 26 2 3 1
36 2 4 2 2 48 2 55 3 1 3 8 3 15 3 22
15 3 33 3 3 1 3 39 3 47 3 55 4 4 4 13
55 4 3 4 13 4 a 3 4 33 4 43 4 53 5 4
34 4 45 4 56 5 7 5 19 5 3° 5 42 5 55
14 5 26 5 39 5 52 6 5 6 18 6 32 6 46
54 6 8 6 22 6 37 6 5 i 7 6 7 22 7 38
35 6 50 7 9 7 22 7 38 7 55 8 13 8 3°
15 7 32 7 49 8 7 8 25 8 44 9 3 9 23
56 8 15 8 34 8 53 9 *3 9 34 9 55 10 16
37 8 58 9 18 9 39 IO 1 10 24 10 46 11 10
19 9 4 1 10 3 10 26 10 50 11 14 11 39 12 4
1 10 25 to 49 11 J4 11 39 12 5 12 32 J3 0
4 4 ii 59 11 35 12 2 12 29 12 57 *3 26 *3 55
27 11 44 12 22 12 50 *3 19 13 49 14 20 14 52
11 12 50 ■3 9 ‘ 3 39 14 IC H 42 *5 1545 49
55 *3 26 *3 57 *4 29 15 2 *5 36 16 11 16 48
40 1*4 13 H 46 ‘ 5 20 15 55 16 3 ' 17 8 *7 47
26IK 0 *5 36 16 12 16 49 *7 27 18 7 r8 47
M 1? 49, 16 27 i7 5 17 44' 18 24 19 6 19 49
0 16 38' *7 17 *7 58 18 39 r 9 22 20 6 20 52
4817 29 18 18 52 19 36 20 21 21 8 21 56
3818 20 J9 19 48 20 34 21 211
22 11(23 1
2819 12 [9 5s 2.0 45 21 34J2? 24 23 1624 I<
5
1920 6 20 54^1 441
22
1 35;23 28 24 22,25 J9:
12 21 1 21 5 122 4423 3 7 24 33 25 3° , 26 30
6 21 57 22 5°23 45'24 41,25 40 26 4° 27 43
I 22 55 23 5 I2 4 48 25 47 26 49 27 52 28 59:
■N«. W .
Original from
M D A f V r s D 1/ n i l D I I / " I I D D A D V
iL
L
p.//w
w
vY
.iiaunuusL
.uiy/a<
.1
.
=3s_uae»K
,u-yuuy,e
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T a b l e o f A scensional D i f f e r e n c e s . &c.
3121 10
3 2 2 2 3
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
4 1
43
44
46
47 40
4 8 4 1
d!,m.
22
23
24
25
26
28
29
30
31
42^2
4 5 3 6 56138
'^38 2940
49
5°
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
" 3
*
d . 1
22
22
23
24
25
27
2 8
29
30
31
32
34
34
35
33
d . m .
5«
55
53
53
55
o
7
*7
29
45
£35
2837
3 22
5 9 23
56
56
57
o
5
13
23
37
54
J5
24
25
27
28
29
3°
31
33
34
35
3837
7
43
45
47
5°
52
55
59
62
67
74
9 0
7|42
52 43
44!45
43 48
40
*9
4
57
57
38
40
42
44
46
850 4353
54
16
53
48
53
56
59
6 6 3
59
42
4
o
jo 3°
6 7
74
90
1
16
1 0
53
12
o
58
56
57
59
3
9
18
29
44
1
22
47 _
16 38
5°
d .
23
24
25
27
28
29
3°
3 1
33
34
35
37
3
4
m .
55
56
59
4
11
21
32
45
40
28
53
2.3
59
39
30 42
1644
3
5
d . m .
24
25
27
28
29
3°
31
33
6 34
53
57
3
11
22
35
5°
10
35
37
39
40
42
59
3 °
36
d . m .
25
2
29
30
3 1
33
34
5336
53
o
9
21
35
52
12
3636
37
37
39
540
4642
33 44
26
29
25 44
18 46
846 20 48 40
948 3 1j5 1
53 53 4056
33
10
52
39
33
46 36
48 48 51
5 1
3 53
2050
11
48
42
53
756
59
63
68
74
90
19 56
x3 59
3 x!63
21 68
2 74
1 9 9 0
o
3 °
24
4263
3 1
11
26
56 3459 5963 46
> 3 *
d . 37ra .
26
28
29
3°
31
33
55
5
18
32
5°
12
34 32
4
39
40
42
44
46
48
53
56
60
363
x3
55
44
3
42
54
J7
55
49
6 64
68
59 5 163 48
40 68 25 74 42
68 1974 3 7 9 ° o
7 4 32,90 o
90
. 3* 39
d . m . d. m .
*7
24
44
6
36
2
26
x5
59
49
45
49
2
27
4
57
16
4
4 1
x3
29
48
10
36
4
36
*5
58
28
29
30
31
33
34
36
37
9
40
42
44
946 46
48
51 22
54 o
56 48
60 11
o
68 76
74 45
90
29
30
3 1
33
34
36
37
39
40
42
47 44
42 46
49
59 5 1
54
56
60
64
68
74
90
♦
d. m.
30
3*
33
34
35
37
39
40
42
44
46
49
51
54
57
60
64
68
74
4990
o
37
1
28
59
53
13
58
49
45
50
4
29
8
3
20
8
44
52
o
»
•
»
:
r
i*
Digitized by Google
OF A S T R O L O G Y . s 6 i
A T able of Ascensional D ifferences, &c.
41 4 2 . 43 44 45 4
<
L
> 47 48 49 i 5
<
->
d. m. d. no. d. m. d. m . d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. in. d. m.
i O 52 ■ft 54 O 56 O 58 1 O 1 2 I 4 I 7 1 9 I 12
2 1 44 ’i 48 I 52 I 56 2 O 2’ 4 2 9 2 13 2 18 2 23
•
»7 3 2 37 2 42 2 48 2 54 3 O 3 7 3 *3 3 20 3 27 3 35
4 3 29 3 37 3 44 3 52 4 I 4 9 4 18 4 27 4 37 4 47
o 5 4 22 4 3 1 4 4 i1 4 5 1 5 1 5 12 5 23 5 35 5 47 5 59
6 5 *5 I 26 5 37 5 5° 6 2 6 *5 6 28 6 42 6 57' 7 12
h
h .7 6 8 6 21 6 34 6 49 7 5 7 18 7 34 7 5 ° 8 7 8 29
8 7 X 7 16 7 32 7 48 8 5 8 22 8 40 8 59 9 18 9 58
tr
9 7 55 8 12 8 3° 8 48 9 7 9 26 9 47 10 8 lo 30 5,3
<
10 8 49 9 8 9 28 9 48 10 9 10 3 1 10 54 11 18 H 42 12 8
11 9 44 IO , 5 IO 27 10 49 11 12 11 57 12 i 12 28 12 55 ‘ 3 24
z 1? IO 39;11 2iii 26 11 5 1 12 16 12 4. ‘3 11 [ 3 39 *4 9 *4 4c
*3 I I 35 12 O I2 26 12 53 >3 21 *3 5° H 20 14 5 1 *5 24 r5 58
*4 12 3 i 12 5 * »3 27 ‘ 3 56 H 26 14 58 •5 30 16 . 5 16 49 17 17
J hS 13 28 *3 58 H 28 *5 0 *5 3 2 16 7 16 42 <7 ! 9 11 57 18 37
16 T4 26 H 58 *5 3 l 16 5 16 40 i i 16 l 7 54 18 34 *9 16 19 59
U *7 15 25 *5 59 16 3 + !7 10 *7 48 18 27 >9 8
l 9 5 »20 36 21 22
18 16 24 1 ‘7 38 18 J7 18 58 19 40 20 23 21 9 21 57 21 47
w
*9 *7 25 18 18 44 19 25 20 9 20 53 21 40 22 2923 10 24 14
n 20 18 27 *9 8
19 5 120 35 21 21 22 8 22 5£ 23 5 124 45 25 42
21 19 30 20 3° 20 59 21 46 22 34 23 25 24 18 25 H 26 12 27 J4
22 20 34 21 20 22 8 22 58 23 50 24 44 25 40 26 40 27 42 28 47
o 23 21 39 22 28 23 19 24 12 25 7 26 5 27 5 28 829 30 20
24 22 46 23 38 24 32 25 28 26 26 27 27 28 3 ' 29 30JO 48 32 %
25 23 55 24 5° 25 47 26 46 27 48 28 52 3° 0 31 1232 2' 33 46
C
/3 26 25 5 26 3 27 3 28 6 29 11 30 20 3 1 32 32 4834 8 35 52
C
d 27 26 J7 27 1828 22 29 29 30 38 3 1 5 133 .7 34 2835 53 37 27
28 27 3 128 3 ^ 9 44 3° 54 32 7 33 25 34 3 ° l,2 37 43 39 19
a 29 28 48 29 5* 3 * 8 32 22 33 40 35 2 36 28 38 O39 37 41 2l
3° 3° 7 31 19 32 35 33 53 35 i6 36 43 38 *5 39 53 41 37 43 29
3 13 i 29 32 45 34 5 35 28,36 56 3 » 29 4° 7 4 1 52 43 44 45 44
rK32 3 2 54 34 *4 35 38 37 738 40 40 19 42 4 43 57 45 27 48 8
U
33 34 22 35 47 37 l6 38 5° 40 30 42 16 44 .846 9 48 5° 5° 43
w 34 35 53 37 23 38 59 40 39 42 25 44 i8 46 2OJ40 3 150 53 53 4o
35 37 30 39 5 40 46 42 33 44 20^6 29 40 40 5 l 3 53 40 56 34
Q 3 6 39 10 40 52 42 39 44 33 46 36 48 48
p'1 11 53 4«5& 42 59 59
37 40 55 42 44 44 39 46 42 48 54 5 1 J7 53 55 56 49,60 6 63 4 ,
38 42 47 44 42 46 46 48 59 5 1 22 54 0 56 4860 1164 0 68 36
39 44 45 49 49 49 2 5 1 27 54 3 56 57.60 1664 4'.68 4i 74 4o
40 46 50 49 4 51 29 54 8 57. 4:0O 20 64 8 68 4474 52(90 0
f
Digitized by Google Original from
V n P k ' D I I D I I r I I R Q A D V
AN I L L U S T R A T I O N
A T able of A scensional D ifferences, &c.
U
03
4
5
6
7
8
9
'ic
11
12
I
*4
SI . 5
1 . Si
d. m
. d. m
. d. m
.
1 14 1 17 I 20
2 28 3 34 2 39
3 43 3 58 3 59
4 57 5 8 5 *9
6 12 6 26 6 40
7 27 7 44 8 1
8 43 9 2 9 23
*7
13
34
16
•'7
18
!9
2 0
21
22 2$
23
2d.
10
11
12
*3
15
16
‘7 56
44
22
23
20
28
5*3
3 14
5 *9
20
l S
■7
18
20
21
i l 23
H
26
39
10
4;
3 * 37
133 22
26
27
?03 28
29
3 °
* 3 *
32
O 33'
2535
37
;03
■03
I
341
35
366
39
41
43
45
47
10
2
o
2
12
54
5d 3 °5 3
53
56
59
i 9
24
5 1
486
3K
37 6
38 74 44
39 90
40
lO 2 2
U 43
24
47
11
37
4
32
2
34
3 '3 3 ;
27
29
56i3 i
3s
10 45
12 8
>4 57
16
*7
19
20
22
23
25
. 54
d. El.
4
5
6
8
9
11
12
14
23
45
8
3 i
55
19
44
9
35
3
d. ”
1
2
4
5
7
8
10
11
‘5 3 1
17 o
18 32
4
38
J5
56j24 53
35i26 34
23
5°
?9
50
2223
20
21
92
462
263c
' 32
34
. 54
34 4436
36 39
38
-|0 42^2
42 53!
45 12
2 947 391
5°
3U
59
16*
25
74 42
90 o
40
1l{28
5330
37 3 1
2833
*7!35
*3 37
H 39
2042
33
59
10
1652
756
13 59
- 63
4068
44 53
47 21
50 1
53
1
3 1
3 *
19
74 3 7 9 °
90 o
!7i
4
54
44
4537
4839
4 i
44
46
49
4452
37;
44 32
47 ®
[49
52
55
59
63
'68
74
26
52
18
4 4
11
3 8
6
3 5
*3 4
H 3 5
16 7
17 40
19 15
20 52
3°
10
5 3
39
37
19
J 5
14
19
29
4 5
9
4 i
22
24
25
27
29
131
33
35
. **
d. «.
1
2
29
58
27
57
27
58
29
4
5
1
10
12
‘3 35
J5 9
16 45
18
20
21
23
25
26
28
. *1
d. m.
32i
5
38
H
*9
3
4
6
7
9
10 5411
12 3013
14 7
45
25
*5
l7
2219
1)20
42
*»
d. m
.
1 36
3 :12J
4 .4C
6 25
44 8
9 4 i
20
14
16
18
24
9
s
3° 41.
32 36
34 41
39
41
49
o
18
4 8 4
6 19
5021
22 35
24 22
26 12
28
3°
3a
34
36
36 48 38 28
40 49
43 l 7
27
5|26
1|3 I
133
5-35
*4
24l(52
2655
4 8 59
I963
21
I
22
C
>
1
s s 32
6
3 10
68 2
74 26
90 ©
5s
62
67
74
90
18'
4
i
16
52
58
53
*9
6
4 »
51
54
54
4 i
4 i
_ 58
48 36
62 49)67
74
90
37
40
42
#
51 19'
54 3
59 19'
63
67
74
90
42
12
cfi
4 i
23
81
53
41
23 31
25 23
1
18
20
26
37
5
1
11 47
°t! 3 31
15 17
» «
20 43
22 26
24 3 1
31
3
4
0
■ H 1 <
* .
d. ■
>
. d. m
.
1 40 | 1 4
-3 20 3 28
5 0 5 *3
6 41 6 57
8 22 8 43
10
26 29
9}29 30
30 35 3
32 4
34 5
37
4)39
*5
5
47 49
0 5
. 54 1
858
62 1
67 1
i]73 5
90 o|
742
7 4 4
26
165
410 28
12 17
*4
»5 55
4j*7 47
19 41
21 36
23 34
25 35
27 39
29 47
1 59
* 9
836 3 7
5
40
44 25
748 20
5° 27
52
A' 39
61 5 7
4
% 3 46
4 34
7 39
241
4 53
657
590
-i*»
Digitized by Google Original from
mc v a / v n p t ' D i i m i r 1 i d r a r v
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
i
i
,
o
u
u
y
i
c
-
u
i
y
lu
^
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
id
u
n
u
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/d
c
c
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
t
f
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
it:
T A B L E S
S H E W I N G T H E
OBLIQUE ASCENSION of the PLANETS,
For the L A T I T U D E of L O N D O N.
No. 28. 6 Y
Original from
Mn/i/ v n e f c ' d 1ip 11r 1i p p a p v
Digitized by Got ole
Digitized by Google M C I A / Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
uuiiicim,
vjuuyie-uiyiuz^u
/
i
ill
|
j
;//
www
.
i
iaunu
ubL.uiy/cu-t.ebb_ubt;^-fju-yuuyie
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 5*5
A T A B L E of O B L I QJ J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.— N orth L a titu d e.
<
y
» O I 2>
j
>
41
(
"rn.
(
d . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . m . d . d . m .
O 0 0 358 2 7 3 5 6 5 5 355 21 353 47 3 5 2 1 3 35° 3 9
I 0 2 5 358 5 2 3 5 7 J 9 355 4 6 354 1 2 352 3 7 3 5 i 3
2 0 4 9 359 *7 3 5 7 4 4 35* 1 0 354 3* 353 2 3 5 1 2 7
3 I 1 5 359 4 2 3 5 8 9 3 5 * 3 5 3 5 5 0 353 2 6 3 5 i 5 1
4 I 5 9 0 7 3 5 8 53 35* 5 9 355 2 5 353 5° 352 J 5 j
5 2 4 0 3 1 3 5 8 5 8 357 2 3 355 49 354 1 4 352 39 |
6 2 2 9 0 57 5 5 9 23 357 4 9 356 14 354 4 0
353 4 !
7 2 5 4 1 22 3 5 9 4 8 358 1 3 3 5 * 3 8 355 4 353 2 8 1
8 3 1 9 I 4 6 O 12 358 3 7 3 5 7 3 355 2 7 353 5 1
9 3 4 5 2 12 O
37 3 5 9 3 357 2 7 355 *7 354 H
I O 4 JO 2 3 6 1 2 '359 2 7 357 5 ° 35* 1 4 354 37
11 4 35 3 0 1 2 6 [359 5 2 358 1 5 35* 39 355 1
1 2 5 1 ’ 3 2 5 1
5 i O *7 358 4 1 357 4 355 2 7
*3 5 2 6 3 5° 2
*5 O 4 1 359 4 357 2 7 355 50
5 52 4 15 2 4 1 1 6 359 3 ° 357 5 1 3 5 * *5
1 5 6 l l 4 43 3 7 1 3 2 359 55 358 17 3 5 * 39
1 6 6 43 5 8 3 33 I 5* 0 1 9 358 4 1 357 2
17 7 9 5 34 3 59 2 22 0
1
45 359 6 357 2 7
1 8 7 35 6 0
4 25 2 27 1 I 1 359 32 357 5 2
l 9 8 1 6 2 6
4 5 ° 3 13 1 3* 359 5* 358 17 j
2 0 8 2 8 6 5 2 5 1 5 3 38 2 o 0 2 0 358 4 i i
2 1 8 54 7 1 8
5 4 1 4 -• 5 2 26 0 47 359 * 1
22 9 2 2 7 44 6 7 4 3 1 2 5 1 1 1 2 359 2 9
2 3 9 4 8 8 1 0 6 33 4 57 3 1 6 1 37 359 54
2 4 IO 15 8 7 1 5 23 3 4 3
2 2 0 20
25 IO 43 9 6 7 2 8 5 5° 4 9
2 27 0
43
3 6 11 1 0 9 34 7 55 6 *7 4 35 2 53 1 1 0
27 1 1 3 8 IO X 8 22 6 44 5 2 3 2 0 1 3 6
2 8 - 12 6 1 0 2 8 8 49 7 1 0 5 2 8 3 4 * 2 1
2 9 12 34 I O 5 8 9 l 7 7 3* 5 5 5 4 1 2 2 26
3° 13 _ 3 11 25 9 45 __ 8_ 5 6 2 3 4 39 2 53
Digitized by Google Original from
M E \ A / V C W Y Dl I R I I T M O D A D V
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 M in.— South L a titu d e.
O 1 z 3 4 < 6
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d .“m. d. m.
0 O 0 1 33 3 5 4 39 6 *3 7 9 21
1 O 25 1 57 3 32 5 3 6 37 8 11 9 46
2 O 49 2 22 3 57 5 28 7 2 8 35 10 9
3 1 15 2 47 4 21 5 54 7 28 9 1 10 35
4 I 39 3 11 4 46 6 J9 7 52 9 26 11 0
5 2 4 3 36 5 11 6 44 8 *7 9 5° 11 24
6 2 29 4 3 5 36 7 10 8 43 10 16 11 49
7 2 54 4 28 6 1 7 35 9 8 10 41 12 13
8 3 19 4 53 6 21 7 59 9 33 11 7 12 39
9 3 45 5 *9 6 52 8 25 9 59 11 33 13 5
IO 4 10 5 43 7 *7 8 5° 10 23 II 58 J 3 30
11 4 35 6 8 7 42 9 15 10 49 12 23 *3 55
12 5 1 6 35 8 7 9 42 I I 15 12 49 H 21
13 5 26 6 59 8 32 10 8 11 40 * 3 *5 H 47
14 5 52 7 26 8 59 10 34 12 6 *3 40 r5 J3
15 6 *7 7 52 9 26 11 0 12 32 H 7 15 39
16 6 43 8 18 9 5 1 11 26 12 58 , 14 33 16 5
*7 7 9 8 43 10 *7 11 51 l 3 24 H 59 16 3 i
18 7 35 9 IO IO 43 12 18 *3 51 15 25 16 57
19 8 1 9 36 11 10 12 44 14 *7 15 5 1 J7 23
20 8 28 10 3 11 37 13 11 H 45 16 19 *7 5 1
21 8 54 10 3 ° 12 5 13 39 15 13 16 47 18 *9
22 9 22 10 56 12 32 14 5 15 39 *7 13 18 46
23 9 48 11 23 12 58 14 33 16 7 17 4 i J9 *4
24 10 >5 11 52 13 25 15 1 16 35 18 8 *9 42
25 10 43 12 19 13 53 15 29 *7 2 18 36 .20 9
26 11 10 12 46 *4 21 15 56 J7 3 ° 19 4 20 39
27 11 3« *3 H >4 5° 16 26 *7 59 19 33 21 6
28 12 6 *3 42 J5 17 16 53 18 28 20 2 21 35
29 12 34 H 11 15 46 17 21 18 57 20 3 1 22 5
30 ‘ *3 3 H 40 16 15 17 5 i *9 27 21 0 22 33
Original from
m c u / d i i r i i r i i d d a p v
O F A S T R O L O G Y , 5 r>7
A T A B L E of O B L I QJJ E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.—
s .
d.
0
d. in.
1
d. m.
2 j 3
d. m. Jd. m.
4
d. m.
5
d. m.
6
d. m.
0
1
2
3
4
5
13 3
n 3 1
14 0
14 30
15 0
15 29
11 25
n 53
12 21
12 49
13 18
13 4 8
9 45
10 13
10 41
11 10
it 38
12 7
8 5
8 33
9 1
9 29
9 55
10 23
6 23
6 co
7 18
7 46
8 12
8 40
4 39
5 5
5 3 i
5 5 8
6 26
6 53
2 53
3 j8
3 45 '
4 12 I
+ 38
5 4
6
7
8
9
10
11
16 0
16 31
17 2
17 35
18 4
18 33
14 19
14 4 8
15 19
15 5°
16 21
16 53
12 37
13 7
13 37
14 8
14 39
15 10
10 59
11 22
11 52
12 23
12 54
13 25
9 9
9 38
1° 7
10 36
11 6
11 37
7 21
7 49
8 i 7
8 45
9 15
9 45
5 32
5 59
6 27
6 55
7 22 j
7 52 i
12
*3
H
15
16
*7
19 8
19 41
20 13
20 46
21 21
21 56
17 26
*7 57
18 30
19 3
19 38
20 12
15 4 i
16 13
16 46
17 18
17 50
18 24
13 5 6
14 26
14 58
15 3 1
16 2
16 34
12 6
12 36
13 -8
13 39
14 12
14 44
10 1C
10 45
11 16
n 47
12 18
12 48
8 21 i
8 50
9 19 !
9 5 *
10 20
10 50
18
19
20
21
22
23
22 31
23 7
23 42
24 19
25 56
25 33
20 47
21 21
21 55
22 31
23 7
23 42
18 59
19 32
20 6
20 42
21 17
21 53
17 8
17 41
18 16
18 53
19 28
20 3
15 17
15 50
16 23
16 58
*7 33
18 7
13 21
13 52
14 56
15 0
15 34
16 8
11 23
11 55
12 26
12 59
13 33
14 6
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
26 11
26 42
27 28
28 7
28 48
29 29
30 10
24 20
25 0
25 39
26 0
26 59
27 39
28 21
22 31
23 8
23 48
24 27
25 7
25 48
26 29
20 38
21 16
21 55
22 33
27 12
23 51
25 32
18 42
19 19
19 57
20 36
21 15
21 54
22 32
16 43
17 19
17 55
18 33
19 11
19 49
20 28
14 39
15 *5
15 5 i
16 28
17 4
17 41
18 21
Original from
MC\A/ Dl IRI i r I I R D A R V
A T A B L E pf O B L I Q JJ E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 M in — South Latitude.
8
d.
0
d. m. d.
L
m. d. *
2
m.
3
d. m.
4
d. m.
i
d. m.
6
! d. m.
O J3 3 14 40 l6 J5 17 51 19 27 21 0 22 33
1 »3 3 1 *5 10 l6 44 18 20 *9 56 21 3° 23 2
2 H O *5 3 8 17 •5 18 5° 20 26 22 l 23 33
3 14 30 16 8 17 46 l 9 21 20 56 22 32 .24 5
4 15 O l6 37 18 15 19 51 21 27 23 2 24 35
5 15 29 17 8 l8 46 20 22 21 57 2 3 33 25 6
6 16 O n 37 J9 16 20 53 22 27 24 3 25 3 8
7 l6 3 1 18 7 19 47 21 25 22 59 24 35 26 10
8 J7 2 18 40 20 19 21 57 23 32 25 7 26 42
9 17 33 *9 12 20 5 1 22 29 24 5 25 39 27 14
IO 18 4 l 9 4
3 21 22 2 3 1 24 48 26 12 27 46
11 18 35 20 16 21 55 23 33 25 IO 26 46 28 20
12 19 8 20 49 22 29 24 7 25 43 27 21 23 54
23 19 4 i 21 23 23 2 24 40 26 *7 27 55 29 28
H 20 *3 21 5 6 23 36 25 H 26 5 i 28 27 3 o 2
l 5 20 46 22 3 ° 24 I 1 25 49 27 26 29 4 30 3 8
ib 21 21 2 3 4 24 44 26 24 28 2 29 39 3 1 14
J7 21 56 23 40 25 *9 26 59 28 37 3° 15 3 [ 49
18 22 3 1 24 14 25 55 27 34 29 14 3° 5 i 32 26
19 23 7 24 49 26 3 i 28 12 29 50 31 28 33 3
20 23 42 25 25 27 8 28 49 3° 27 32 5 33 4 o
21 24 19 26 3 ■27 45 29 26 3 1 3 32 42 34 18
22 24 56 26 39 28 21 3 0 3 3 i 41 33 20 34 57
23 25 33 27 J7 28 59 3 0 41 32 20 33 5 8 35 35
24 26 11 27.56 29 37 31 19 32 5 8 3 4 37 36 13
25 26 49 28 34 3° 18 32 0 33 38 35 J7 36 53
26 27 28 29 H 3° 5 » 32 39 34 28 35 57 37 33
27 28 7 29 54 31 39 33 l 9 35 0 36 37 3 8 15
28 28 48 3 ° 35 32 ’9 34 1 35 42 37 20 3 8 56
29 29 29 3 1 J7 33 0 34 43 36 24 38 1 39 38
3° 30 26 3 1 53 33 42 35 25 37 6 3 8 44 40 3°
Original from
M E U / V n R k ' Dl ID I Ir I I D P A D V
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.— Latitude.
d.
n
0
d. m.
1
d. m.
2
d. m.
3
d. m.
4
d. m.
5
d. m.
— T “ “
d. m.
O 30 10 28 21 29 29 24 32 22 34 20 27 18 21
1 3 ° 52 29 2 27 9 25 12 23 14 21 7 19 0
2 3 i 36 29 45 27 47 25 5 2 23 52 21 47 19 38
3 32 19 30 27 28 33 26 35 24 35 22 29 20 ry
4 33 4 31 12 29 18 27 19 25 18 23 11 20 58
5 33 48 3 1 57 30 2 28 4 26 2 23 14 21 42
6 34 34 3 2 42 30 46 28 49 26 45 24 3° 22 24
7 35 20 33 28 3 i 33 29 33 27 29 25 20 23 7
8 36 7 34 J5 32 20 30 19 28 15 26 6 23 52
9 36 55 35 2 33 7 3 1 6 29 1 26 52 24 37
IO 37 44 35 5° 33 56 3 1 54 29 50 27 39 25 25
i 1 38 33 36 39 34 44 32 43 30 3 8 28 27 26 12
12 39 23 37 3° 35 34 33 32 31 28 29 16 26 59
13 40 14 38 21 36 24 34 23 3 2 17 3° 7 27 4 8
14 41 6 39 J3 37 14 35 15 33 7 3° 57 28 37
*5 4 1 59 40 6 38 7 36 8 34 0 3 1 49 29 29
16 42 52 41 0 39 1 37 2 34 54 3 2 4 i 30 22
*7 43 47 41 54 39 56 37 56 35 48 33 35 3 i 17
18 44 42 42 48 40 49 38 5 i 36 43 34 3 i 32 11
*9 45 36 43 44 4 i 47 39 45 37 3 8 35 27 33 6
20 46 33 44 4 1 4 2 44 40 42 3 8 34 36 23 34 2
21 47 3 i 45 38 43 4° 4 1 39 39 33 37 ‘9 34 58
22 48 29 46 35 44 3 8 42 37 4° 3 1 3 1 *7 35 56
-3 49 28 47 35 45 3 8 43 36 41 32 39 19 36 57
24 5° 28 48 35 46 39 44 36 4 2 3 1 40 20 37 59
25 51 29 49 37 47 4 * 45 40 43 33 41 21 39 0
26 52 3 i 50 40 48 43 46 43 44 3 6 42 25 4° 3
27 53 34 51 42 49 46 47 46 45 4° 43 28 4 i 7
28 54 37 52 46 5° 5° 4 8 51 46 45 44 34 42 13
29 55 41 53 5° 5 1 55 49 56 47 5 i 45 40 43 20
3° 56 46 54 56 53 2 5 1 3 48 55 46 48 44 -9
Original from
v n o k ' di i m m m D a d v
a n i l l u s t r a t i o n
A T A B L E of O B L I Q U E A S C E n s i o n s , ;
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.— South Latitude, j
II O 1 2 ! 3
- ■
5 6
a . d. m. d. m. d. m. j d. m. | d. m.
1
d. m. d, m.
C 3° 10 3 1 58 33 4 2 35 25 37 6 38 44 40 20
I 3° 52 32 40 34 25 36 8 37 49 39 26 41 3 '
2 3 1 36 33 21 35 9 36 5 i 38 32 40 iO 4 i 47
3 32 19 34 6 35 5 2 37 35 '3 9 16 40 53 4 2 31
4 33 4 34 5° 36 37 38 20 : 4 ° 0 41 38 43 15
i 5 33 48 35 36 37 21 39 5 40 46 42 24 44 1
6 34 34 36 21 38 7 39 5° 41 3 1 43 12 44 48
7 35 20 37 8 38 54 40 37 42 18 43 58 45 34 1
8 36 7 37 55 39 4 i 41 24 43 5 44 45 46 21
9 36 55 38 44 40 29 42 13 43 54 45 34 47 10
IO 37 44 39 32 41 18 43 1 44 43 46 21 47 59
11 38 33 40 21 42 8 43 5 i 45 33 47 11 48 48
12 39 23 41 12 4 2 58 44 4 2 46 24 48 1 49 38
*3 40 14 42 2 43 48 45 34 4-7 13 1 48 53 5° 3°
H 41 6 4 2 55 44 4 i 46 25 48 5 49 44 51 22
15 4 i 59 43 47 45 33 47 17 48 58 SO 37 52 13
16 42 52 44 4 i 46 28 48 11 49 5 1 5 1 3° 53 6
*7 43 47 45 35 47 22 49 5 50.44 52 24 53 59
18 44 42 46 31 48 18 49 59 5 1 4° 53 19 54 54
45 36 47 27 49 14 5° 54 52 35 54 13 55 49
20 46 33 48 23 5° 9 5 1 49 53 3° 55 9 56 43
21 47 3 1 49 19 5 i 5 52 45 54 25 56 4 57 39
22 48 29 50 16 52 2 53 43 55 24 57 1 58 36
23 1 49 28 5 i 15 53 1 54 4 2 56 22 58 0 59 34
24 50 28 5 2 15 54 0 55 4 2 57 21 58 58 60 32
25 5 1 29 53 17 55 1 56 42 58 21 59 58 61 31
26 52 3 * 54 J8 56 1 57 43 59 2 i 60 58 62 30
27 ; 53 34 55 20 57 3 58 44 60 21 61 58 63 30
28 54 37 56 23 58 5 59 46 61 23 62 59 64 3 1
29 55 4 i 57 26 59 9 60 49 62 25 64 1 65 32
?o 56 36 58 31 60 14 61 5i_ 63 29 65 4 66 35
b
yGoogle Original from
k i p u m v n o t ' d i i p i i r i i p p a p v
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— North Latitude.
25 c I 2
> 5 4(
• i <
d. d. 1
m. d. m. d. m. d .'m. d. m. d. *m. d. m.
O 56 46 54 56 53 2 5 1 3 48 59 46 48 44 29
1 57 5 2 56 2 54 9 52 10 50 7 47 56 45 38
2 58 59 57 10 55 18 53 19 5 i 17 49 6 46 49
3 60 6 58 18 56 26 54 28 52 26 5° 16 47 59
4 . 6l r4 59 2S 57 37 55 39 53 38 5 i 29 49 *3
5 62 23 60 37 58 47 56 5° 54 49 5 2 4 i 50 26
6 6 3 33 6l 47 59 57 58 1 56 3 53 56 51 4 i
7 64 43 62 59 61 8 59 M 57 16 55 11 52 58
8 65 54 64 9 62 20 60 27 58 29 56 25 54 12
9 67 6 65 22 63 34 6l 4 1 59 43 57 41 55 3 °
10 68 J9 66 37 64 5° 62 58 6i 0 59 1 56 5°
11 69 33 67 52 66 5 64 *5 62 18 60 *9 58 10
12 70 47 69 6 67 19 65 33 63 37 61 37 59 3 ^
*3 72 1 70 22 68 38 66 5° 64 56 62 57 60 53
H 73 *7 7 i 38 69 55 68 8 66 16 64 J7 62 H
J5 74 33 72 54 7 1 u 69 26 67 34 65 39 63 35
16 75 50 74 11 72 3° 70 45 68 55 67 1 04 59
*7 77 7 75 29 73 50 72 5 70 *7 68 25 00 24
18 78 25 76 48 75 10 73 26 7 r 40 69 46 67 49
19 79 48 78 7 7 6 3 ° 74 48 73 2 7 1 I I 69 16
20 81 2 79 28 77 52 76 10 74 26 72 37 70 43
21 82 21 80 48 79 13 77 32 75 49 74 2 7 2 9
22 83 41 82 9 80 36 78 55 77 15 75 28 73 39
23 85 1 83 3° 81 99 80 19 78 39 76 54 75 3
24 86 22 84 52 83 20 81 45 80 5 78 23 76 32
25 87 42 86 15 84 44 83 10 81 3 2 79 5° 78 2
26 89 3 87 38 86 8 84 35 82 58 01 *7 79 30
27 90 24 88 59 87 3 i 85 59 84 25 82 45 81 1
28 9 1 47 90 2 3 88 55 87
88
24 85 5 1 84 *3 82 32
29 93 11 9 i 46 90 21 52 87 20 85 43 84 i L
3° 94 34 93 12 91 47 90 18 88 48 87 12 85 35 II
No. 29. 7 A
Digitized by Gougle
Original from
M E U / v n E V Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
572
i
i A T A B L E of OBLIQJLT E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— South Latitude.
'Id O I 2 3 4 5 6
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. in. d. m. d. m.
O 56 46 58 3 1 60 14 61 53 63 29 65 4 66 35
I 57 52 59 36 61 19 62 57 64 39 66 7 67 38
2 58 59 60 43 62 25 64 2 65 39 67 11 68 43
3 60 6 61 50 63 ‘3 i 65 8 66 43 68 6 69 46
4 61 14 62 58 64 39 66 15 67 5i 69 22 70 52
5 62 23 64 7 65 47 67 22 68 57 70 28 73 57
6 63 33 65 15 66 54 68 30 7° 3 7 ' 34 73 2
7 64 43 66 25 68 3 69 38 71 12 72 42 74 10
8 65 54 67 34 69 12 70 47 72 20 73 49 75 36
9 67 6 68 45 70 23 73 55 73 27 74 56 76 23
IO 68 19 69 59j 73 35 73 7 74 38 76 7 77 33
11 69 33 73 »3 72 48 74 18 75 49 -77 17 78 43
12 7° 47 72 25 74 0 75 29 77 0 78 27 79 52
33 72 1 73 39 75 32 76 43 78 11 79 38 81 1
U 73 *? 74 53 76 26 77 57 79 23 80 50 82 12
35 74 33 76 7 77 39 79 9 80 36 82 1 83 23
16 75 5° 77 23 78 55 80 23 81 45 83 1 4 84 36
1 7 77 7 78 38 80 10 Si 38 83 3 84 27 85 48
18 78 25 79 561 81 26
CO
u
O
84 18 85 39 87 0
19 79 43 81 13 82 42 84 7 85 33 86 53 88 14
20 81 2 82 32 83 58 85 23 86 47 88 7 89 27
21 82 21 83 5o 85 15 86 39 88 2 89 22 90 40
22 83 41 85 9 86 33 87 56 89 17 90 37 9i 55
23 85 1 86 281 87 53 89 15 9° 34 9 i 54 93 10
24 86 22 87 47 89 11 90 32 93 53 93 30 94 26
25 87 42 89 , 8 90 31 93 5 » 93 30 94 26 95 43
26 89 3 90 28 93 53 93 10 94 28 95 42 96 57
27 90 24 91 48 93 30 94 29 95 46 96 59 98 13
28 91 47 93 3o 94 31 95 49 97 4 98 j8 99 33
29 93 3i 94 32 95 51 97 8 98 23 99 36 100 49
3P 94 34 95 54 97 17 98 27 99 42 100 54 102 6
2
Digitized by Go*.'2le Original from
m cu/ v n o k ' di ipi 1r i i p p a r v
I A T A B L E of O B L I QJJ E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— North Latitude.
SI O ] 5
) £ 41 5 (
r
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. 111
. d. m.
0 94 34 93 11 9 1 47 90 18 88 48 12 85 35
1 95 58 94 35 93 12 91 45 90 16 88 41 87 5
2 97 22 96 1 94 37 93 12 91 4 ? 90 n 88 36
3 98 45 97 26 96 3 94 39 93 12 91 41 90 8
4 'too 8 98 5 i 97 3° 96 7 94 4 i 93 n 9 1 39
5 IOI 33 IOO l6 98 Sfj 1 97 34 96 9 94 43 93 11
6 102 57 IOI 40 100 23 99 2 97 38 96 13 94 43
7 104 22 103 6 IOI 49 100 31 99 9 97 .44 96 16
8 105 46 104. 33 103 17 102 0 100 39 99 16 97 46
9 IC7 I 1 I05 59 [04 44 103 39 102 8 100 46 99 21
IO IO0 36 107 25 106 10 104 56 103 37 102 16 100 54
11 IllO
2
108 53 107 38 106 23 i°5 8 ,03. 47 102 27
12 I111 27 110 19 !100 7 107 52 106 37 IOI
19 1
103 59
13 112 53 111 46 n o 34 109 20 108 6 106
1 n
48 ;
i105 3°
14 114 18 1J3 12 112 2 n o 5° 109 36 [108 20 IO7 2
x5 ” 5 44 ” 4 37 " 3 3° 112 19 111 5 109 51 108 35
16 117 10 |116 4 114 58 1*3 48 112 36 '111
1 22 n o
I 7
J7 118 36
0 1 31 116
*
* 1
25 !
|l l 5 16 114 6 112
I 53 40
18 120 2 118 5« 117 53 46 i *5 36 114 25 l l 3 *3
19 121 27 t 20 25 119 22 |i 18 *5 117 7 115 57 114 46
20 122 54 121 51 120 49 ;119 44 118 36 117 27 116 16
21 124 20 123 18 122 16 121 11 120 6 118 57 117 49
22 i -5 46 124 45 123 43 122 40 121 37 120 29 119 21
23 127 12 126 12 124 11 124 8 123 6 ,121 59 120 53
24 128 39 127 39 126 39 125 37 124 35 123 29 122 24
2 C 130 5 129 6 128 7 127 6 126 4 124
/ 59 123 54
26 13 1 3 1 130 3 1 129 34 128 34 127 34 120
O 3° I25
/
26
27 132 57 4 3 1 59 *3 r 2 130 0 129 3 120 0 120
- O
58
28 *34 23 *33 27 132 29 131 3 i 13° 32 129 29 I 20 29
r>
29 l 35 5° 134 53 133 57 132 59 132 0 130
S
o9 1
I29 58
3° *37 15 136 19 135 23 134 27 133 29 132 29 113 T 20
Original from
m c \hi v n o k ' D i m i i r i i d d a d v
A T A B L E of O B L I Q E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg;. 32 M in — South .
si O . 3 4 I (
:
—
)
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d .' m. d. m.
O 94 34 95 54 97 12 98 27 99 42 100 54 102 6
1 95 58 97 '7 98 34 99 49 101 2 102 13 103 24
2 97 21 98 39 99 55 IOI 9 102 22 103 32 104 42
3 98 45 100 O IOI J7 102 29 103 42 104 51 106 1
4 100 8 101 24 102 40 i °3 5 1 105 2 106 n [°7 19
5 101 33 102 48 104 2 105 12 106 22 107 3 i 108 37
6 102 57 104 12 io 5 23 106 33 107 42 108 5 1 IO9 57
7 IO4 22 1°5 35 106 47 107 55 109 4 n o 12 I I 1 i-7
8 105 46 106 59 108 9 109 17 110 25 111 32 I 12 37
9 IO7 11 108 23 109 33 n o 40 111 46 112 52 l l 3 56
IO 108 30 109 47 I IO 56 112 3 ” 3 9 114 J3 115 16
I I 110 .2 i l l 11 112 !9 J13 26 114 30 l l 5 34 116 37
12 111 27 112 36 n 3 43 114 48 IJ5 52 116 55 117 58
13 112 53 1*4 2 115 7 116 11 117 13 118 J7 n 9 19
14 ” 4 18 ” 5 26 1x6 3° 117 34 118 36 119 39 120 40
15 11S 44 116 5° 117 55 118 57 119 58 121 0 122 O
16 “ 7 10 118 16 119 18 120 20 121 21 122 22 123 20
*7 u 8 36 " 9 41 120 42 121 44 122 45 123 45 124 42
I 8 120 2 121 5 122 7 123 7 124 ■7 >25 7 126 4
39 121 27 122 3 ° 123 3 1 124 3 1 125 3° 126 28 127 26
; 20 122 54 123 55 124 5 6 125 55 126 54 I27 5° 128 48
21 124 20 125 20 126 21 127 19 128 17 I29 J3 130 10
22 125 46 126 46 127 45 128 43 129 40 13° 37 131 32
| 23 127 12 128 9 129 9 130 7 13 1 3 131 59 132 54
1 24 128 39 129 35 130 34 ' 3 1 3 1 r32 26 133 21 134 16
25
„/
130 5 2 132 0 132 56 *33 49 !34 45 J35 38
26 13 1 3 i 132 27 l 33 26 J34 19 r35 13 136 8 137 1
27 132 57 [33 54 134 5° »35 43 136 36 l 37 3° 138 23
28 J34 23 »35 18 136 !3 ■37 6 138 0 138 53 139 45
29 •35 50 136 44 J37 36 138 30 *39 24 140 16 H i 8
30 137 15 138 8 r39 1 L39 55 140 49 141 40 142 3 1
Digitized by Go< sle Original from
m c i a / v n c t ' D i i m i r i i d d a d v
| A T A B L E of O B L IQ J U E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— North Latitude. 1 t
O rI 5 L
I- t c)
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d / m. d. m. d.*m. d. m.
O *37 15 136 *9 *35 23 *34 27 *33 29 132 29 *3 * 29
1 138 41 137 46 136 5 * *35 54 *34 57 *33 58 132 58
2 140 7 139 12 *38 *7 *37 22 136 26 *35 28 *34 29
3 141 33 140 39 139 44 138 5° *37 54 *36 58 136 0
4 142 59 142 6 *4 * *3 140 10 *39 23 138 27 *37 30
5 144 25 *4 3 .32 142 40 141 46 140 5 * *39 55 138 59
6 l45 51 144 58 *44 7 *43 *3 142 *9 141 24 140 30
7 H 7 *7 146 24 *45 33 *44 4 * *43 46 142 53 *4 * 58
8 148 43 *47 52 *47 1 146 9 *45 *5 144 22 *43 27
9 150 8 149 18 148 27 *47 37 146 44 *45 5* *44 57 -
IO 151 34 15° 44 149 53 149 2 148 12 147 18 146 26
11 152 59 152 10 *5 * 20 *5° 29 *49 40 148 46 *47 54
12 ^54 25 153 36 *52 47 *5* 55 *5 * 7 *5° *4 149 22
*3 *55 5° >55 2 *54 *3 *53 22 *52 33 *5 * 42 *50 52
*4 157 16 156 28 *55 38 *54 48 *53 59 *53 9 *52 18
4 1 157 53 *57 5 *56 16 *55 27 *54 37 *53 47
16 160 7 159 18 158 3* *57 42 *56 54 *56 3 *55 *5
*7 161 3 ? 160 44 *59 57 *59 9 158 20 *57 3* *56 43
18 162 58 162 9 161 23 160 35 *59 47 *58 58 *58 9
*9 164 23 163 36 162 5° 162 2 161 *4 160 25 *59 35
20 165 48 165 2 164 16 163 29 162 40 161 52 161 3
21 167 *3 166 28 *65 4 * 164 55 164 7 163 *9 162 3°
22 168 39 167 52 i67 6 166 *9 *65 33 164 45 163 57
23 170 4 169 18 168 32 167 45 166. 58 166 12 *65 24
24 171 3° 170 43 169 57 169 1,1 168 24 167 38 166
/ A
5°
25 172 54 172 7 171 22 170 35 169 49 169 2 168 *5
26 174 20 *73 33 172 47 172 1 171 *5 170 28 169 42
27 175 45 *74 58 *74 *3 *73 27 172 40 *7 * 54 17* 7
28 177 10 176 23 *75 38 *74 52 174 6 *73 20 *72 33
29 178 36 *77 48 *77 3 176 18 *75 32 *74 45 *73 59
3° 180 10 *79 *3 178 29 *77 43 176 57 176 11 *75 25 ,
1 No. 29. 7 B
Digitized by Go< ole Original from
M
E
\A
S D
l IPIIr IIDDARV
: A
1 T A B L E of O B L I QJ J E A S C E N S I O N S , 1
1
For the Latitude 51 Deg. ;32 M in.-—South Latitude.
c) I fI 3 4,.- 1 I <
d. d. m. d. m. d ."m. d. m. d. m . d .'"m. d. m.
o 137 15 138 8 139 2 139 55 140 49 Mi 40 142 32
I •38 42 *39 33 140 26 141 19 142 13 M3 3 M 3 54
2 140 8 140 58 141 52 142 43 M3 36 144 26 145 *7
3 141 33 142 24 M3 16 144 8 144 59 M5 49 146 40
4 ‘142 59 143 53 144 42 M5 32 146 22 147 12 148 5
5 144 25 H 5 17 146 7 146 57 M7 46 148 36 149 27
6 145 52 146 42 M7 32 148 21 149 12 M° 0 M° 5°
7 147 J7 148 7 I48 56 149 45 M° 35 M i 25 M 2 M
8 148 43 149 32 1 5 0 22 M 1 9 M i 59 M2 49 M3 38
9 150 8 150 58 M 1 47 M2 35 M3 24 M4 13 M5 2
lo *5 * 34 *52 23 M3 12 M3 59 M4 49 M5 37 156 2 5
11 M2 59 153 48 M4 16 M5 24 [56 13 M7 1 M7 47
12 154 25 155 14 156 2 M6 5° M7 37 M 8 25 M9 12
13 M 5 50 156 30 157 27 158 15 M9 2 M9 49 160 35
14 157 16 158 4 158 52 159 40 160 26 161 *3 :161 59
15 M8 42 *59 28 160 16 161 4 161 50 162 37 163 23
16 160 7 160 54 161 42 162 28 163 M 164 0 164 47
17 161 32 162 *9 163 6 163 52 164 38 165 25 166 12
18 162 58 163 45 164 3 1 i6 5 16 166 3 166 49 167 35
19 164 23 i6 5 10 i6 5 56 166 42 167 27 168 13 168 59
20 i *5 48 166 35 167 22 168 6 168 5 i 169 38 170 24
21 167 13 168 2 168 46 169 32 170 17 171 3 171 49
22 168 39 169 25 170 10 170 55 171 42 172 27 M3 13
23 170 4 170 50 171
1
Co
!
^
172 22 M3 6 M3 52 174 37
24 171 3° 172 15 173 0 173 46 174 3 i 175 16 176 3
25 172 54 173 40 l74 27 175 12 *75 57 176 4 2 J77 28
26 174 20 *75 5 175 52 176 37 177 22 178 8 I78 54
i 27 *75 45 176 32 177 17 178 2 I78 48 179 33 l8o 19
28 177 10 177 56 178 43 179 26 180 12 180 57 l8l 43
29 178 36 179 22 180 8 180 5 2 181 37 181 23 183 10
30 100 O 180 47 18 r 32 182 >7 183 3 183 49 184 25
z
Digitized by Goosle Original from
i v n c k ' D i i m i r i i r r a r v
I A T A B L E of O B L I QJLJ E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 M in.— North Latitude.
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
O t8o 0 179 13 •7 s: 29 r77 43 1761 57 1761 11 ‘75 25
1 181 25 l8o 39 1791 52 *79• 9 178: 23 177 37 r76 5°
2 J82 5° 182 4 181 17 181 34 379 47 179 3 178 17
3 184 15- 183 29 182 43 180 58 Ii8i 12 180 27 *79 4 i
4 ,83 40 184 55 184 8 183 23 182 3 8 181 52 181 6
5 |l8 7 6 186 20 i g5 33 184 48 184 3 183 18 182 32
6 188 30 187 45 187 0 186 13 i8 5 29 184 44 l8 3 57
7 189 56 189 IO 188 25 187 39 186 54 186 9 185 23
8 191 21 190 35 189 5° 189 5 188 19 187 33 186 47
9 192 47 191 59 !91 H 190 29 189 43 188 57 189 11
IO J94 12 193 25 192 39 £91 54 191 9 190 22 189 36
11 l 9S 37 I94 S° 194 4 193 19 192 33 191 47 J191 1
12 ig j 2 196 *5 >95 29 194 44 193 57 ^93 r 1 ll92 25
13 198 28 197 42 196 54 196 8 *95 22 194 35 |193 49
H 199 53 i199 6 198 19 *97 32 190 46 196 0 *95 13
J5 201 19 200 32 199 44 198 56 198 10 197 23 196 37
16 202 44 201 56 201 9 200 20 199 34 198 47 198 1
*7 204 10 203 22 202 33 201 45 200 58 200 11 199 25
18 205 35 204 46 203 59 203 10 202 23 201 35 200 49
19 207 1 206 12 205 24 204 36 203 47 202 59 202 13
20 208 26 :
207 37 206 49 206 2 205 12 204 23 2°3 35
21 209 5 2 :
209 2 208 13 207 25 206 35 205 47 :
204 59
22 21 I 17 210 28 :209 38 '208 5 l ■
208 1 207 11 206 22
23 212 43 •
211 53 :211 4 ■
210 15 :
209 25 :
208 35 :
207 46
24 :
214 - 9 *
213 18 :212 29 !
211 39 2
210 49 :
210 O !
209 10
25 :
215 35 2
U4 43 :213 53 2
2I3 3 2
212 14 :211 :24 ^
Jio 33
26 :
216 59 :zi6 10 :215 19 s
214 28 i2I3 38 5
212 48 S
5ii 55
27 :218 27 !
217 36 :216 43 2
J*5 52 2
•l 5 1 2
514' :
I I S
S13 20
28 -
219 53 2
u 9 2 2
218 9 2
>17 17 J216 -4 2
515 34 2
514 43
29 :221 19 5
120 27 219 34 2
118 ,41 jH7 47 s516 57 sii6 6 I
30 :
222 46 J
12I 52 1
2
520 59 2
520 5 2
ir q 11 5>18 20 2117 29 I
Original from
m c u / v n u t ' di mi 1r i m p a p v
A T A B L E of O B L I Q J J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.—South
V
.f C I 2 5
| 41 5 (
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
0 180 10 180 47 l8l 32 182 i i i8 3 3 183 45 184 35
1 181 25 182 12 182 57 183 42 184 28 185 *5 186 2
2 182 5° 183 37 184 22 185 8 l8 5 54 186 40 187 27
3 184 15 185 2 185 47 186 33 187 20 188 6 188 53
4 i8 5 40 186 27 187 *3 187 59 188 45 189 32 190 19
5
187 6 187 53 l88 3 8 189 25 190 11 190 58 191 45
6 188 30 189 J7 I9O 3 190 49 191 35 192 22 193 10
7
O
189 56 190 42 191 28 192 '5 J93 2 J93 48 194 3 6
8 191 22 192 8 I92 54 193 4 2 194 27 *95 h 196 3
9 192 4 7 193 32 I94 195 5 *95 53 196 4 2 l 97 3 0
10 194- 12 194 5 8 !95 44 196 32 197 20 198 8 198 51
11 195 37 196 24 197 10 *97 58 198 47 199 35 200 25
12 197 2 197 52 198 37 199 25 200 13 201 2 201 5 2
13 198 28 199 16 200 3 200 5 2 201 40 202 29 203 18
*4 199 52 200 42 201 29 202 18 203 6 203 57 204 45
15 201 J9 202 7 202 55 203 44 204 33 205 23 206 *3
16 203 44 203 32 204 22 205 12 206 1 206 52 207 42
17 204 10 204 58 205 47 206 38 207 27 208 18 209 9
j .8 205 35 1206 24 207 *3 208 5 208 53 209 46 210 S8
1 19 207 2 207 5° 208 40 209 32 210 20 211 14 212 6
20 208 26 209 *9 210 7 210 58 211 48 212 42 213 34
21 209 52 210 42 211 33 212 23 213 16 214 9 215 3
22 211 17 212 8 212 59 213 52 214 45 215 38 216 33
23 212 43 213 36 214 27 215 19 216 H 217 7 218 2
24 214 9 215 2 215 53 1216 47 217 42 218 36 219 3°
25 215 35 216 28 2 l 7 20 J218 14 219 9 220 5 221 2
26 216
n 59 217 54 2l8 47 '219 +2 220 37 221 33 222 3 °
27 2l8 27 219 21 220 16 221 10 222 6 223 2 224 0
28 219 53 220 48 221 43 222 3 8 223 34 224 3 2 225 3 2
29 221 19 222 H 223 9 224 6 225 3 226 2 227 2
J ° 222 46_ 223 42 224 37 22? 33 226 32 227 3 2 228 35
Original from
MCWU v n p ^ D I I R I i r I I P D A D V
A T A B L E of O B L I Q J J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— N orth L a titu d e.
"I c £
> r
1 A
1
- I i t)
d. d. m. d. 1
tn. d. m. d .' m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
O 222 46 221 5 1 220 59 220 5 219 ll 218 20 217 29
1 224 11,223 16 222 24 221 3° 220 36 219 44 218 5 [
2 225 37 224 4 1223 47 '222 54 222 0 221 7 1
^20 15
3 227 3 226 6 225 10 224 *7 223 24 222 30 221 37
4 228 29 227 33 226 35 225 41 224 47 223 51 222 59
5 229 ss 228 58 228 0 227 4 226 11 225 *5 224 21
6 23 * 21 230 25 239 26 228 29 227 35 226 39 225 44
7 232 47 231 5 1 230 51 229 53 228 57 228 1 227 6
8 234 14 233 14 232 *5 231 *7 23O 20 229 23 ,22$ 28
9 235 40234 40 233 39 232 4 * 23I 43 230 47 229 5°
IO 237 61236 5 235 4 234 5 232 56 232 10 23 « 11
11 238 33|237 30 236 29 235 29 234 30 233 3 i 232 3 5
12 239 58238 55 237 53 236 53 235 53 234 53 233 56
*3 241 24 240 >9 239 18 238 16 237 15 236 r5 235 18
H 242 .$0,241 44 240 4 1 239 40 238 39 237 38 236 40
15 244 16 243 10 242 5 241 3 240 1 239 0 238 0
16 245 4 1244 34 243 3° 242 26 241 24 24O 21 239 20
*7 247 8i
i245 58 244 53 243 49 242 47 241 43 240 4 '
18 248 33 247 24 246 17 245 11 244 8 243 5 242 1
19 249 58 248 49 247 4 i 246 34 245 33 244 26 243 23
20 251 24 250 *3 249 4 247 57 246 51 245 47 244 44
21 252 49 25 * 37,250 27 249 20 248 H 247 8 246 4
22 254 14 253 1 25* 5 i 250 43 249 35 248 28 247 23
23 255 38 254 25 253 *3 252 5 250 56 249 48 248 43
24 257 3 255 48 254 37 253 27 252 18 25 r 9 250 3
25 258 27 257 11 255 58 254 48 253 38 25 2 29 25 i 23
26 259 5 1258 36 257 20 256 9 254 58 253 49 252 4 i
27 261 15 260
°l
258 43 257 30 256 18 255 9 253 59
28 262 39 261 21 260 5 258 5 1 257 38 256 28 2s? 18
! 29 264 3262 43 261 26 260 11 258 58 257 47 2?6 06
30 26$ 20 204 6t2b2 48 261 33 260 18 2$9 6 2$7 5+ i
No. 29. 7 C
Original from
MCXA/ Dl ID I Ir I ID D A D V
uuiiidiM,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
iiLip.//
vvww
.iidunu
ubL.uiy/dn_t:bb_ubt;-«-|ju-yuuyie
Digitized by
A T A B L E of O B L I Q J J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 M in.— L a titu d e.
n | c I £
> c} 4 ( (
1
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d .' m.
\ d. m.
0
. 222 46 223 41 224 37 225 33 226 3 1 227 3 1 228 31
1 224 11 225 7 226 3 227 1 228 0 229 1 230 1
2 225 37 226 33 227 3 1 228 29 229 27 230 3 1 231 3 1
3 227 3 228 1 228 5s 229 57 230 57 232 0 233 1
4 228 29 229 28 230 26 231 26 232 26 233 30 234 34
5 229 55 23° 54 231 53 232 54 233 56 235 1 236 0
6 2 3 1 21 232 21 233 21 234 23 235 25 236 3 1 237 36
7 232 47 233 48 234 49 235 5 [ 236 54 238 1 239 7
8 234 H 235 *5 236 *7 237 20 238 23 239 3 i 240 39
9 235 40 236 41 237 44 238 49 -39 54 241 1 242 n
10 237 6 238 6 239 11 240 16 241 24 242 33 243 44
11 238 33 239 35 24O 38 24X 45 242 53 244 3 245 H
12 239 53 241 1 242 7 243 H 1
244 24 245 35 246 47
241 24 242 29 243 35 244 44 ,245 54 247 7 248 20
14 242 5° 243 56 245 1 246
11
247 24 248 38 249 53
15
/
244 16 245 23 246 3° 247
41
248 55 250 9 25 l 25
16 245 41
r\ 246 48 247 58 249 10 !
1
250 24 251 40 252 58
17 247 8 248 H 249 26 250 40 25 1 55 253 11 254 30
18 L+s 33
.0
249 41 250 53 252 8 253 23 254 4 « 256 1
1249 58 251 7 252 21 253 37 254 52 256 i3 257 33
20 25 r 24 252 35 253 5° 255 4 256 23 257 44 259 6
21 252 49 254 1 255 16 256 3 1 257 52 259 H 200 39
22 254 J4 255 27 256 43 258 0 259 21 260 44 262 11
23 255 38 256 54 258 11 259 29 260 5 i 262 16 263 44
24 257
_ 0 3 258 20 259 37 260 58 262 22 263 47 265 17
25 258 27 259 44 261 4 262 26 263 5 1 265 J7 266 40
20 259 5 i 261 9 262 3 ° 263 53 265 *9 266 49 268 21
27
_0
201 *5 262 34 263 57 265 21 266 48 268 19 269 51
20 2X>2 39 263 59 265 23 266 48 268 ! 5 [269 49 271 20
29 20/J 3
_/
265 25 266 48 268 *5 269 44 j 271 *9 272 55
. 3° 265 20 266 49 268 13 269 41 271 11 1
272 48 274 25
. 3
Google Original from
MEtA/ V n D t ' Dl IQI Ir I I D D A Q V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 581
A T A B L E of O B L I Q JJ.E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— Latitude.
c
> i *
> c
] i1 5 (5
d.
A
d. m. d. m. d. m. d / m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
0 26 c 26 264 6 262 48 261 33 260 18 259 6 257 54
1 266 49 265 28 264 9 262 5 1 261 37 260 24 259 11
2 26S J 1V266 50 265 29 264 11 262 56 261 41 2/00 29
3 269 34- 268 I I 266 5° 265 3 1 264 *4 263 1 26l 47
■4 270 56 269 3 1 268 9 266 5^ 265 3 1 264 18 263 3
5 272 18 270 5 ^ 269 29 268 9 '266 5° 265: 34 264 19
6 273 38 272 *3 270 49 269 28 268 9 I266 5° 265 34
7 . 274 58 273 3 J 272 8 270 45 269 26 268
/
6 266
0 5°
8 276 J9 274 5 1 273 27 272 4 270 43 269 23 268
S
’_ 5
9 277 39 276 IO 274 45 273 21 271 58 27Q 38 269 20
IO 278 58 277 28 276 1 274 37 273 J3 271 53 27O 33
/
11 280
17
278 47 277 18 275 58 274 27 273 7 27I 46
12 281 34 280 4 278 34 277 8 275 4 1 274 21 273 0
13 282 53 281 21 279 5° 278 ■
21 276 57 275 33 274 21
L
/
14 284 10 282 27 281 ' 5 279 37 278 11 276 46 275
/
24
15 285 27 283 53 282 21 280 5 1 279 24 277 59 276 37
16 286 41 285 ■7 283 34 282 3 280 37 279 10 277
n
48
J7 287 58 286 21 284 48 283 *7 !281 49 280 21, 278' 59
18 280 11 287 35 286 0 284 31 i283 0 281
i
33 280 8
19
/
290 27 288 47 287 11 285 4 1 284 11 282 43 281 *7
20 291 4 1 290 1 288 25 2s6 53; 285 21 283 53 282 27
21 292 53 291 15 289 37 288 ■51
286 33 2S5 41 i 3
37
22 294 5 292 26 !290 48 2S9 13 287 40 286
1 1 1
284
r\ 44
23 295 16 293 35 '291 57 290 21 288 48 287 i8 '285 5°
24 296 37 294 45 '293 6 291 3° 289 57 288 26 286
_00 58
25 297 37 295 54 294 *3 292 38 291 3 2S9 3 1
i)
288
*0^ 3
0
26 298 46 297 1 295 21 293 45 292 9 290 38 209 O
27 299 54 298 10 296 29 294 5 1 293 17 291 44
/
290 x4
2S 301 1 299 l 7 297 35 295 5 8 294 21 292 46 29I l 7
29 302 8 3 °° 24 298 41 297 3 295 27 293 53T
/
292 21
30 303 14 301 29 299 46 298 7 296 3 1 294 56 293 27 .
Original from
M E W V r i D k ' Dl ID I I r I I D D A P V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
5'S*
A T A B L E of O B; L I QJ J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 M in — ' Latitude
1
c I 2
► r
1 II 1 (
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d." m. d. 'm. d .'"m. d. m.
° 265 26 266
i
49 268 13 269 4 i 271 11 272 .47 274 25
1 266 49 268 14 269 39 271 8 272 40 274 17 275 56
2 268 11 269 37 271 5 272 36 274 9 275 47 277 28
3 269 34 271 l 272 29! 274 1 275 35 277 15 278 59
4 270 56 272 21 273 511 275 25 277 1 278 43 280 3 °
5 271 18 273 45 275 16 i276 5° 278 28 280 10 281 58
6 273 37 275 8 276 40 278 15 279 55 281 38 283 28
2 274 58 276 3 ° 278 3 279 41 281 21 283 6 284 57
8 276 l 9 277 5 1 279 24 281 5 2 >2 45 284 32 286 24
9 277 39 279 11 280 47 282 28 284 11 28 c <8 287 5 i
IO 278 58 280 3 i 282 8 283 5° 285 34 287 23 289 17
I T 280 17 281 53 283 3 ° 285 11 2»6 58 288 49 290 44
12 281 34 283 11 284 5° 286 34 288 20 290 14 292 11
13 282 53 284 3 i 2S6 10 287 55 289 34 291 35 293 36
14 284 10 285 49 287 30 289 15 291 5 292 59 295 1
15 285 27 287 6 288 49 290 34 292 26 294 21 296 25
16 286 43 288 21 290 5 291 5 1 293 44 295 43 297 46
*7 2»7 5» 289 38 291 21 293 10 295 4 297 3 298 7
18 289 *3 290 54 292 4 i 294
1
27 296 23 298 23 3°° 29
19 290 27 292 8 293 55 295 45 297 41 299 43 301 5°
20 291 41 293 23 295 10 297 1 299 0 300 59 3° 3 19
21 292 53 294 38 296 26 298 J9 3°° 17 302 19 3°4 3 °
22 294 5
, / 295 5 i 297 40 299 33 3° i 31 303 35 3°5 48
23 295 10 297 1 298 5 i 3°o 46 302 44 304 49 3°7 3
24 296 27 298 13 300 3 301 59 303 57 306 4 3°8 19
25 297 37 299 23 301 13 3°3 10 305 11 307 19 3°9 34
26 290 40 300 31 302 23 3°4 21 306 21 3°8 3 i 310 47
27 299 54 3 °i 41 3°3 34 3°5 3 i 307 34 309 14 312 1
28 3 °i 1
Q 302 50 304 41 306 4 t 308 43 310 54 3 13 11
29 302 O 1303 58 3°5 5 i 3°7 50 3°9 53 312 4 3 ‘4 21
] 3° 3°3 14 !3°5 4 [306 58 308 57 3 U 1 3 13 11 315 31
Digitized by Google Original from
m c i a / v n p ^ D i m i i r i i p d a d v
A T A B L E of O B L I Q J J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— North Latitude.
yf C
) > 5 I t i <
3
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d .‘m. d. tn. d. *
m. ' d.
1
m.
O 3°3 14 301 29 299 46 298 7 296 3 1 294 5 6 293 * 5 !
. 1 3°4 19 302 34 3° ° 5 * 299 11 -97 35 295 59 294 28
*2 22 3°3 37 3°* 55 300 14 298 37 ■
297 1 295 29
3
306 26 3°4 40 302 57 301 16 299 39 298 2 296 3 °
4 3°7 29 3°5 42 3°3 59 302 *7 3° ° 39 299 2 297 3°
5 308 3 1 3°6 42 3°4 59 3°3 18 301 39 3° ° 2 298 29
6 3°9 3 2 307 45 306 0 3°4 i8 302 39 3°* 2 '299 28
7 310 52 3°8 45 3°6 59 3°5 18 303 38 302 0 3° ° 26
8 3 1* 3 1 3C9 44 3°7 58 306 *7 3° 4 36 302 59 j3°* 24
9 3 12 29 31° 4 * 3° 8 55 3°7 11 3°5 35 3°3 56 302 21
10 3*3 26 3 * 1 37 3°9 5 1 308 *5 3°6
30
3°4 5 * 303 *7
11 3 14 22
!
3x2 32 3JO 46 3°9 6 3°7 25 3°5 47 304 11
12 315 18 3*3 29 3 *1 42 3 1 ° 1 3° 8 20 306 4 * 305
_/■
6
1 3 316 12 3*4 25 312 38 3*o 55 3°9 *5 3°7 36 3°6 1
14 317 8 3*5 *9 i 3*3 32 3 11 49 310 9 308 30 |3° 6 54
I C 318 1 !316 12 3*4 27 3 12 42 3 11 2 3°9 22 3°7
„ 0 47
j
16 3 l8 54 3*7 5 !3*5 *9 3*3 35 3 11 55 3*° 16 308 38
17 3 49 46 3*7 58 316 12 3*4 26 312 47 |3 *1 7 3°9 3°
18 320 37 3l8 4 8 3*7 2 3*5 18 3 *3 36 3 ** 59 3 10 22
1
19 321 27 3*9 39 3 '7 52 316 9 1
314 27 312 49 3 ** 12 ;
/
20 322 16 32° 28 3 l8 42 316 59 3*5 27 3 13 39 312 I 1
1
2I 323 5 321 16 319 3 1 3*7 47 i3 *6 6 3*4 27 312 5° 1
22 323 52 322 5 320 *9 3 l8 36 3*6 55 3*5 *5 3*3
3l I
23
J ^
324 40 322 53 321 6 3*9 22 3*7 316 2 1
1
3*4 26 |
24 325 26 3-3 39 321 5 2 32° 10 3*8
!
29 3 »« 4 8
/ 3 *5 12
2C .326 12 324 24 322 39 320 55 3*9 *4 3*7 36 ,3*5 59
j
26 326 c6 325 i° 323 22 321 40 32° 0 1
1318 22 316 45
27 327 4 1 325 54 324 8 322 25 320 44
O 3*9 7 i3*7
~.O
29
28
J »
328 24 326 38 324 5 * 323 9 321 28 3*9 5° !
31b
„„O
12
I 29 329 8 327 20 325 35 323 52 3 22 11 32° 34 3*8
3 0 22Q 5° 328 2 326 18 ^24 35 322 *4 321 16 3*9 4 0 ,
No. 29. 7 D
uumdiM
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
e
u
/
iiiip.7/www.i
iciut
mi
ubi.ur
y/cn_Lt;bb_ube-«-|ju-yuuyie
5S4 a n ’ i l l u s t r a t i o n
A T A B L E of O B L I Q J J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 M in.— South Latitude.
kf c I 2
> £1 4 i t
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
0 303 *4 305 h 3°6 58 308 57 3 ** 1 3*3 12 3*5 3 *
1 3°4 19 306 10 308 5 3*° 4 3*2 9 3*4 20 316 40
2 3°5 22 307 h 3°9 10 3 *1 9 3*3 *5 3*5 26 3*7 47
3 306 26 308 18 3*° *4 3*2 *4 3*4 20 3*6 32 3*8 52
4 3°7 29 309 20 3 11 *7 3*3 *7 3*5 24 3*7 35 3*9 57
5 3°8 31 310 22
1
312 *9 3*4 20 ;3 *6 27 318 39 321
L . .
0
6 309 32 3 11 -5 3*3 21 3*5 22 3*7 27 3*9 40 I322 1
7 310 32 3»2 *5 ;3*4 22 3*6 24 3*8 28 320 4* 323 3
8 3 11 31 313 25 3*5 22 3*7 22 3*9 29 321 42 324 4
9 312 29 3*4 22 316 20 3*8 21 320 29 322 4* 325 2
10 313 26 315 *9 3*7 16 3*9 18 321 26 323 37 325 58
11
314 23 316 16 3*8 12 320 *5 322 22 324 33 326 54
12 3*5 18 3 i7 12 3*9 11 321 10 323 *7 325 29 327 49
13 316 12 318 6 320 4 322 4 324 12 326 25 323 48
14 317 8 3 i9 0 32° 59 322 58 :
;3 25 6 327 *9 329 38
*5 318 1 3*9 54 321 52 323 52 1
326 0 328 11 33° 3 *
16 3*8 54 320 47 322 46 324 45 326 52 '329 2 33* 22
17 3*9 46 321 39 323 32 325 37 327 42 ,329 5 2 332 12
18 320 37 322 30 324 26 326 28 328 32 33° 44 333 1
19 321 27 323 21 1
325 16 327 18 329 22 33* 32 333 48
20 322 16 324 10 1
326 4 328 6 33° 10 S3 2 21 334 35
21 323 5 324 5 8 1
326 52 328 54 33° 59 3 33 8 335 22
22 323 52 325 45 327 40 329 4 * 33* 45 333 54 336 8
23 324 46 326 32 328 27 33° 27 332 3 * 334 40 336 52
24 325 26 327 18 329 4 3 3 * 11 333 *5 335 22 337 36
25 326 12 328 2 329 58 33* 56 333 58 336 6 338 18
26 325 56 328 48 33° 42 332 4 * 334 42 336 49 339 2
27 327 4 i 329 32 33* 27 333 25 335 25 337 3 * 339 42
28 328 24 33° *5 332 11 334 8 336 7 338 12 340 22
29 329 8 33° 58 3 3 2 5 * 334 48 336 46 33 3 52 3 4 * O
_3" 329 50 33i 39 333 3 * '335 28 337 20 339 32 3 4 * 32
Digitized by G o g g l e Original from
m c i a / v n D t ' D i i m i r i i d d a d v
j
u
i
iidiii,
o
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
u
/
i
i
l
l
|
j
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
i
i
c
i
u
i
i
u
u
b
L
.
u
i
y
/
c
a
^
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
#
^
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
e
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 585
| A T A B L E of O B L I QJ J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 M in.— North Latitude.
O J I 3 4 5 (5
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
O 329 50 328 2 326 18 324 35 322 54 321 16 3 J9 40
1 33° 32 328 42 327 0 325 17 323 36 321 59 320 22
2 331 12 329 25 327 4 1 325 5° 324 18 322 40 321 4
3 331 52 33° 6 328 21 326 41 325 0 323 22 321 45
4 332 32 33° 4 6 329 2 327 21 325 42 3 24 2 322 27
333 11 3 3 1 26 329 42 328 0 326 22 324 42 323 7
6 '333 46 332 4 330 22 328 41 327 2 325
✓
22 3 23 47
7 334 27 332 42 331 X 329 *9 327 40 326 2 324 25
8 335 4 333 21 331 39 329 57 328 *9 326 40 325 2
9 335 42 333 57 332 *5 33° 34 328 56 327 18 325
I s 42
IO 336 18 334 35 332 52 331 11 329 33 327 55 I320 20
11 336 52 335 11 333 29 331 48 33° 10 328 32 326 57
12 ;337 29 335 46 334 5 332 26 33° 46 329 9 ! 327 34
13 33 8 4 335 20 334 4 i 333 1 331 23 329 45 :328 11
14 338 39 336 56 335 16 333 36 331 58 33° 21 328 40
15 339 *4 337 3 ° 335 49 334 11 332 34 33° 56 329 22
n
16 339 47 338 4 336 24 334 46 333 9 331 32 329 58
»7 34° *9 i338
1
37 336 58
1
335 20 333 43 33 2 5 !33° 32
18 34° 52 339 11 337 3 1 335 52 334 *7 332 39 331 6
19 34i 24 339 44 338 5 336 27 334 50 333 14 !
0
331 47
20 3 4 i 56 340 n 338 38 336 59 335 22 333 48 73 2 14
21 342 28 1340 40 339 9 337 3 1 335 55 3.34 21 332 46
22 342 59 34i 20 339 41 33 8 2 336 28 334 52 333 18
23 343 27 34i 52 340 12 338 35 337
1
i 335 25 333 5°
24 343 59 342 22 340 44 339 7 337 32 335 57 334 22
25 344 3 l 342 52 3 4 i H 339 38 33 8 2 336 27 334 54
1 26 345 1 343 22 341 45 34° 9 33 8 32 336 58
/> 335 25
j 27 345 3 o 343 52 342 1+ 34° 39 339 4 337 20 335 55
1 28 346 0 344 22 3+2 45 341 10 339 34 337 59 33 6 27
| 29 346 29 344 5° 343 16 34i 40 34° 4 338 3° 336 5.8
30 346 58 345 20 343 45 3+2 6 1
34° 32 339 0 337. 27
Digitized by Google Original from
m p u / v n D f c ' D i i m 1r i i d d a d v
u
u
i
i
i
d
i
n
,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
^
e
u
/
i
il
l
|
j
.
/
/
v
v
v
v
w
,
i
i
d
i
i
iil
i
u
b
L
.u
i
y
/a
c
u
e
b
b
_
u
b
e
-
t
f
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
it;
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
SS6
I' A T A B L E of O B L I QJ J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— South Latitude. t
ss 1 O I 2
I c! II f ()
d. |
1
d. ni. d. m. d. m. d .w
m. d. 'm. d. m. d. m.
o 329 50 331 39 333 3 1 335 28 337 26 339 32 3 4 i 39
I 330 32 332 21 334 12 336 9 i33 8 6 34° 11 342 »9
2 331 12 333 1 334 52 336 4 8 338 45 34° 49 342 56
3 3 3 r 52 333 40 335 32 337 7.7 339 24 341 27 ,343 32
4 332 32 334 21 336 12 338 5 34° 2 342 5 !344 9
5 333 11 335 0 336 52 338 44
1
340 41 342 41 344 45
6 333 49 335 40 337 29 339 22 34i 18 343 17 :345 21
7 334 27 336 18 338 7 339 57 34i 52 343 52 ;345 54
8 335 4 336 53 338 4 2 340 32 342 27 344 26 '346 27
9 335 4 " 337 29 339 18 34i 7 343 2 345 0 1347 1
IO 336 l8 33 8 5 339 54 34i 44 343 37 345 34 ;347 34
.11 333 5 2 3 3 8 39 34° 28 342 19 344 10 346
7
348 5
12 337 29 339 12 34i 1 342 52 344 42 3+6 49 !
b is 37
i3 338 4 339 48 34i 36 !343 26 345 16 347 12 349 14
H 338 39 340 22 342 10 343 58 345 48 347 42 1
349 4°
15 339 H 34° 57 342 42 344 29 3+6 21 348 12 35° 9
id 339 47 341 3° 343 14 344 2 346 52 348 44 !35° 41
17 340 19 342 2 343 47 345 34 347 24 349 I351 lO
18 34° 52 342 34 ^343 19 345 4 ;347 54 349 45 3 5 1 39
19 341 24 343 7 344 5° 346 35 l348 22 135° 15 352 8
20 34i 56 343 39 344 21 3+6 6 348 54 !35° 45 352 38
21 342 .28 344 16 345 52 347 37 349 25 35i 15 353 5
22 342 59 344 4 1 345 22 347 8 349 52 3 5 r 42 353 32
23 343 27 345 12 346 52 348 38 35° 22 352 11 354 1
24 ;343 5° 345 4 1 347 22 349 7 350 5 1 352 39 354 28
25 344 31 3+6 12 347 5 2 349 36 3 5 i 20 353 7 354 56
26 345 1 346 42 3+8 22 350 4 3 5 1 48 353 34 355 22
27 345 3° 347 11 34° 5° 35° 3 1 352 15 354 355 48
28 346 0 347 39 349 !9 35° 59 352 42 354 29 356 *5
29 346 29 348 7 349 47 35i 27 353 10 354 55 356 4 2
_
3° 346 58 348 35 3A° _15_ 35i 55 353 37 355 21 357 _ 7 1
Original from
fcinAf v r s D n i i di ir i i p d a d v
j A T A B L E of O B L I Q J J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— .
K C I 2
>
$ I4 J
5 c)
d. d. m . d. m . d. m. d . ’m . d. m. d. m. d. m .
O 346 58 345 20 343 45 342 9 34° 33 339 0 337 27
/
1 347 26 345 49 344 14 342 39 3 4 i 3 339 29 337 56
2 347 54 346 18 344 43 343 7 3 4 i 32 339 58 338 25
3 348 22 346 46 345 IO 343 34 342 1 3 4 0 27
/
338 54
4 348 5° 347 14 345 39 3 4 4 4 342 3° 34° 56 339 21
5 3 4 9 n 347 41 346 7 344 3 1 342 58 341 24 339 51
6 3 4 9 45 348 8 346 35 3 4 4 59 343 25 341 52 340 18
/
7 3 5 ° 12 348 3 7 347 2 345 27 343 53 342 19 3 4 ° 46
8 35° 38 349 4 347 28 ,3+5 55 3 4 4 21 342 47 3 4 i h
9 351 6 349 3° 347 55 346 21 3 4 4 47 343 *3 3 4 i 41
IO 3 5 1 32 349 57 348 23 3 4 6 49 345 t8 343 41 342 9
11 351 59 35° 24 348 5° 347 16 345 43 344 9 342 37
12 352 25 35° 50 349 l 7 347 42 346 9 3 4 4 35 343 3
13 352 5 1 3 5 1 *7 349 43 348 9 34^ 36 3+5 1 343 29
H 353 17 3 5 1 42 35° 9 348 34 347 2 345 27 343 55
15 353 43 352 8 ;
3 5 0 3 4 349 0 347 28 345 53 3 4 4 21
16 3 5 4 8 352 34 3 5 1 1 349 26 347 54 346 20 3+4 47
17
354 34 353 1 3 5 1 28 349 52 3+8 20 346 45 345 *3
18 354 59 353 25 3 5 1 5 3 -- 35°' 18 348 45 347 u 3 4 5 39
19 355 25 353 52 352 18 350 45 349 11 3 4 7 37 346
/
5
20 355 5° 3 5 4 n 352 43 351 IO 349 37 348 2 34°
/
3 °
21 356 16 354 41 353 8 3 5 1 35 35° 1 348 27 346 55
22 356 41 355 7 353 34 352 1 3 5 ° 27 348 53 347 21
23 357 7 355 32 353 59 ;352 25 35° 52 349 »9 347 47
24 357 32 355 57 354 25 35 2 5 ° 3 5 1 *7 349 44 348
: )
I I
_/
25 357 56 356 24 354 49 353 16 3 5 1 43 35° 10 348 3 6
26 358 22 356 49 355 H 353 41 352 8 35° 34 349 0
27 358 46 357 12 355 39 354 6 352
3 l
35° 59 349 25
28 359 11 357 38 3 5 6 3 354 32 352 58 3 5 1 25 349 5 1
29 359 34 358 3 356 28 3 5 4 57 353 23 3 5 1 49 35° H
3° 360 0 358 27 3 5 6 55 355 21 353 47 352 13 35° 39
No. 29. 7 k
Original from
m e \ a / v r i D t ' d i i m i r n n n a d v
5S8 a n i l l u s t r a t i o n
I ~ * '
I A T A B L E of O B L I Q J J E A S C E N S I O N S ,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.— Latitude.
X 0 j C
> cI 4 I t
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d .‘m. d. m.
O 3 4 6 58 348 35 35° 15 3 5 1 55 353 37 355 21 357 7
I 347 26 349 4 3 5 ° 43 3 5 2 24 354 5 355 48 357 34
2 347 54 349 32 3 5 i 11 352 5 ° 3 5 4 32 356 14 357 59
3 348 22 349 59 3 5 1 38 353 16 3 5 4 58 3 5 6 40 358 24
4 348 50 3 5 ° 26 352 5 353 43 355 25 357 6 358 5°
5 349 l 7 35° 54 352 32 354 10 355 51 357 33 359 l 7
6 349 45 3 5 1 22 352 59 354 37 356 J7 357 58 359 40
7 35° 12 351 5° 353 27 355 3 356 44 358 23 0 0
8 35° 38 352 l6 353 53 355 29 357 9 358 48 0 31
9 3 5 1 6 352 42 3 5 4 *9 355 5 357 34 359 *3 0 55
IO 3 5 * 32 353 8 354 45 3 5 6 22 358 0 359 40 1 20
11 3 5 1 59 353 3 4 355 10 3 5 6 47 358 24 0 4 1 44
12 352 25 354 0 355 35 357 *3 358 49 O 28 2 8
13 352 5 1 354 26 356 1 357 38 359 *5 O 54 2 33
14 353 l 7 3 5 4 52 356 27 358 4 359 41 1 *9 2 58
*5 353 43 '355 *7 356 53 358 28 0 5 1 43 3 21.
16 3 5 4 8 35 5 44 357 *9 358 54 0 3 ° 2 9 3 45
17 354 34 356 10 357 45 359 *9 0 5 6 2 33 4 10
18 354 59 1359 35 358 9 *59 43 1 19 2 56 4 33
19 355 25 357 0 358 3 4 0 8 I 45 3 21 4 59
20 355 5° 3 5 7 24 358 58 0 33 2 10 3 46 5 23
21 356 16 1357 48 359 23 0 57 2 33 4 9 5 46
22 356 4 i 358 H 359 48 1 23 2 57 4 33 6 9
23 357 7 3 5 8
1 38 O 12 1 47 3 22 4 56 6 32
24 357 32 359 3 O 37 2 11 3 46 5 20 6 5 6
25 357 56 359 29 1 2 2 37 4 11 5 46 7 21
26 358 22 359 53 I 27 3 1 4 35 6 10 7 45-
27 358 4 & 0 18 1 5 i 3 25 5 0 6 3 i 8 9
28 !359 11 0 43 2 16 3 5° 5 24 6 58 8 33
29 |359 94 1 8 2 44 4 H 5 48 7 2 3 . 8 57
1 3° 1350 0 1 33 3 5 4 39 6 J3 7 47 9 21
2
Digitized by ( j C K Original from
M en u o i i m 1r i i p d a d v
^
i
f
in
n
f
i-n
r
l-tf
-a
c
n
Q
Q
a
-'n
p
/fi
ir
v
iQ
n
m
i
nPirAAAAAA//-rl-nM
/
n
3
7
n
i
R
i
n
-
a
i
R
n
n
n
'i
iip
i
i
i
n
n
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 589
P R A X I S ,
For finding the ObliqueAfcenfions or D of the Planets, fo r any L a ­
titude, by the help of Artificial Sines and .
JjM R ST , The planet’s declination is to be fought.
Secondly, The height of the pole wherein the planet ia pofited.
Thirdly, With this enter the Sines and Tangents, and gain the afcen-
fional difference.
Fourthly, The right afcenfion of the planet muft be found, either as
it is or without latitude.
Fifthly, To this right afcenfion, add or fubtradl the afcenfional dif­
ference, according to the declination of the planet, whether it be north
or fouth, and the oblique afcenfion is found.
If the declination of a ftar is north, fubtradl the afcenfional difference
from the right afcenfion, and the remainder will be its oblique afcenfion;
but, if added together, the fum will be the oblique defcenfion of the ftar~
If the declination of a planet is fouth, add the afcenfional difference and
right afcenfion together, and the fum will be its oblique afcenfion ; but,
if you fubtracl, the remainder will be its oblique defcenfion.
E X A M P L E .
Suppofe it be required to find the oblique afcenfion of
Mars, as in the figure page 197 of this work, under the
elevation of the pole of the eleventh houfe, which is
-twenty-three degrees twenty-nine minutes j proceed thus:
Firft find the declination of Mars, which is twenty-two
degrees two minutes north; with this look into a table
of artificial fines and tangents, and feek the tangent an-
fwerable to that degree and minute, which will be
Then feek the co-tangent anfwerable to the elevation of
the pole (or latitude), viz. twenty-three degrees twenty-
*nine minutes, and it will be ---------v ■ ■
■ ■
Which co-tangcnt fubtradl from the tangent by adding
10.000000 to the tangent, otherwife fubtradlion cannot
be made; and there remains ■
■ ■■
■ .
9.607136
10.362044
9.245092
This
Digitized by C j C K > S lC
Original from
M
HM D
l mi ir IIRBM3V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
This remaining number feek in the column of fines, and it will an-
fwer to ten degrees eight minutes, which is called the afcenfional dif­
ference.
Then feek the right afcenfion of Mars, in the foregoing
tables of right afcenfions, with one degree feventeen mi- d. m.
nutes north latitude, which will be — —
- 11921
The declination of Mars being north, fubtratt the af-
cenfional difference from the right afcenfion, and the af-
cenfional difference is ■ — — —
— 108
The remainder is the oblique afcenfion of Mars requi­
red, viz. • ■■ ■
■ — ■ 109 13
To find the oblique defcenfion of the planets, with latitude, work as
by the following example of the Moon in the aforefaid figure.
Firfl, The Moon’s declination is to be fought, which is four degrees
twenty-nine minutes north latitude.
8.894366
10.051664
8.842702
Which number feek for in the column of fines at the top, and it will
be found anfwerable to three degrees fifty-nine minutes, which is called
the afcenfional difference.
The Moon’s latitude being two degrees forty-two minutes north.
Seek the right afcenfion of the Moon with that latitude, d. m.
and it will be — — — — —
- 25^53
To this add the afcenfional difference, becaufe the de­
clination is north, • — • —
— • 339
And the oblique defcenfion required will be ■ ■
■ 36 52
If
Secondly, With this declination find the tangent anfwer­
able thereto, and it will be • ■- — — —
■ —
Thirdly, Find the Moon’s pole, viz. forty one degrees
thirty-fix minutes, with which, feek the co-tangent an­
fwerable, and it will be ■
■
■
■
* ■
■■■ ---------
Which co-tangent fubtrafr from the .tangent, by adding
10.000000 which fubtradlion cannot otherwife be made;
there will remain • --------- -----
Original from
M
C
IA
/ ^ nilDi Ir 1i n n a n \y
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 591
If the declination of the Moon were fouth, the afcenfional difference
mud then have been fubtraded from the right afcenfion, and the remain­
der would have been the oblique defcenfion.—The fame rules will apply
to the calculating or finding the oblique defcenfion of all the planets, in
every degree of latitude.
I fhall now fubjoin Tables of Logiftical Logarithms, for the purpofe
of finding the part proportional, either in time or motion, between any
two planets or fignihcators ; which will entirely complete this fet of
Aftrological Tables, and render them an eafy and familiar guide to every
fludent, in afcertaining the dire<ftions of all the planets, whether mun­
dane or zodiacal, direct or converfe, that can poffibly occur in the cal­
culation of nativities, or horary queftions.
To make the ufe of them more obvious to the underftanding of every
reader, I fhall fubjoin a variety of examples, (hewing how to afcertain
the daily and hourly motion of any given planet; and alfo to determine
the precife time when any two fignificators will meet in one and the fame
point of the heavens, or form any other afped upon the horofcope or gc-
niture of any enquirer, in the courfe of pradice.
The expedition with which Nativities may be calculated, or Aftrolo­
gical Queries anfwered, by the aid of this fet of tables, not to mention
the expedition with which the governing configurations are found, will
amply reward the reader for any time or trouble beftowed in acquiring a
competent knowledge of them ; as will abundantly appear by the method
in which I fhall bring up the diredions of the fubjoined nativity of my
learned friend Mr. Witchell, Mafter of the Portfmouth Royal Academy.
It may alfo be premifed, that the ftudent, well informed in all the fore­
going rudiments of the fcience; in the nature and tendency of the pla­
nets, and their various configurations ; will, with pleafing aptitude, by
the ufe of thefe tables, find himfelf qualified for the calculation of his
own or any other nativity, precifely in the fame way as will be laid down
in the management of that above-mentioned, which will prove a compe­
tent example for all others.
Thefe tables of Logiftical Logarithms are of a triple or three-fold ex­
tent; the firft column appertains to motion, the fecond toabfolute num­
bers, and the third to a correct meafure of time, as fpecified at the top
of each table refpedively.
I have thought it moft confident to let the tables precede, and the ex­
planatory examples follow; for it is impofiible to imprels the mind with
No. 30. 7 F a proper
Digitized by Google Original from
M P / i / v n o k ' Dl I P I I r I I R R A P V
592 AN ILLUSTRATION OF ASTROLOGY.
a proper idea of the procefs, without often referring to thefe and the
other tables which compofe the fet, as will evidently appear by what oc­
curs hereafter.
It is not abfolutely neceffary that the reader Ihould ftudy the art of con-
ftrudting logarithms to underftand the ufeof the following tables, which
are here inferted for the mere purpofe of references, agreeable to the fcve-
ral Examples that follow j it is fufficient for the reader to know, that ad­
dition of logarithms is the fame thing as multiplication in common arith­
metic, and fubtradlion in logarithms the fame as divifion j therefore in
multiplication by logarithms, add the logarithms of the multiplicand and
multiplier together, and their fum is the logarithm of the produdl; and
in divifion, fubtraft the logarithm of the divifor from the logaritham of
the dividend, and the remainder is the logarithm of the quotient. To
extradl the roots of powers by logarithms, divide the logarithm of the
number by the index of the power, and the quotient is the logarithm of
the root fought; to raife a number to any power, multiply the logarithm
of the number by the index of that power, and the product is the loga­
rithm of the power to which the number was required to be raifed.
TABLES
Original from
M
iriA
f vrtrs i
s m i n i ir* i i n n r
\n\y
Digitized by Gougle
T A B L E S
O F
L O G I S T I C A L LOGARITHMS,'
For finding the Part proportional both to
T I M E and M O T I O N ,
Digitized by Google Original from
v n o k ' di id i ir i i q r a d v
Digitized by Google Original from
M C I A / V r i R ^ Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 595
L O G I S T I C A L L O O A K 1 TH M b.
Minute. O 1 2 3 4 5 6
60 120 j 8o 240 3°° 360
Time,
m. f.
h. m.
0 24
h. m.
. O 48
h. m.
1 12
h. m.
1 36
h. m.
2 0
h. m.
2 24
0
1
2
3
4
1 0
24
48
1 12
36 ,
2 O
35563
32553
30792
29542
2^573
17782
17710
17639
’757°
17501
17434
14771
14735
14699
14664
14629
14594
13010
12986
12962
12939
12915
12891
11761
11743
11725
H7°7
11689
11671
10792
10777
10763
10749-
10734
10720
lOOOO
9988
9976
9964
9952
9940
6
7
8
9
10
11
24
48
3 12
36
4 0
24
27782
27I I2
26532
26021
25563!
25149|
17368
17302
17238
*7175
17110
17°5°
14559
14525
14491
14457
14424
14390
12868
12845
12821
12798
12775
12753
11654
11636
11619
11601
11684
11666
10706
10692
10678
10663
10649
10635
9928
9918
9905
9893
9881
9869
12
14
>5
16
*7
48
5 12
3 6
6 0
24
48
1
24771
24424
24102
23802
23522
23259
16990
16930
16871
16812
16755
16698
14357
I4325
14292
14260
14228
14196
' 1273©!
12707
12685
12663
12640
12618
11549
11532
11515
11498
11481
11464
10621
10608
10594
10580
10566
' i°552
9858
9846
9834
9823
9811
9800
18
*9
20
21
22
23
7 12
0 3 6
8 0
24
48
9 12
23010
22775
22553
22341
22130
21946
16642
16587
16532
16478
16425
16372
14165
14133
14102
14071
1404O
14010
12596
12574
12553
12531
12510
12488
H447
11430
11413
11397
11380
H363
10539
105251
10512
10498
10384
10471
9788;
97771
9765!
9754
9742
973i
24
25
26
27
28
129
3°
36
10 0
24
48
11 12
36
12 0
21761
121584
21413
21249
21091
20939
20702
16320
16269
16218
16168
16118
16069
16021
13979
13949
13 9 19
13890
13860
i 383*|
13802
12467
12445
12424
12403
12382
12362
1 1 2 3 4 1
11347
11331
H3H
11289
11282
11266
11249
10458
10444
10431
10418
10404
10391
10378
9720
9708
9 6 9 7
9686
9675
9664
9652!
Mo. 30. 7 G
Digitized by Google
Original from
MC\A/ V O D ^ Dl IDI \r I I D R A D V
L
j
C
J
i
D
D
3
1
3
3.
D
f)
3
?
!
£
§
3
D
sj
3
1
3
b
3
1
3
3
3>
s
m
:
v
r
3
596 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
f
L O G I S 1 I C A L L O G A R I T H M S.
| Minute O 1 2 3 4 . 5 6
I
6 0 1 2 0 l 8 o 2 4 0 3 0 0 | 3 6 0
} 1 i m c . li • m . ! h . m . h . m . h . m . ho m . h . m .
!In . 1.
C
M
O
0 4 S 1 1 2 ' 1 3 6 2 0 2 2 4
3 ° 12 ° |
20792 1 6 0 2 ij 1 3 8 0 2 1 2 3 4 2 1 1 2 4 9 1 0 3 7 8 1 9 6 5 2
3 1 1 2 4 2 c 6 49 *5 9 7 3 : 1 3 7 7 3 1 2 3 2 c 1 1 2 3 3 i o 3 6 5 | 9 6 4 1
3 2 4 8 2 0 5 1 15 9 2 5 ! 1 3 7 4 5 1 2 3 0 c 1 1 2 1 7 1 0 3 5 2 , 9 6 3 0
33 l 3 I 2 2037 8 1 1 5 878 1 3 7 1 6 1 2 2 7 9 1 1 2 0 1 1 0 3 3 9 , 9 6 1 9
34 3 6 2 0 2 4 8
> 5 8 3 2 1 3 6 8 8 1 2 2 5 9 1 1 1 8 6 1 ° 3 2 6 i 9 6 0 8
35 H O 2 0 1 2 2 j 5 ? 8 6 1 3 6 6 0 1 2 2 3 9 1 1 1 7 0 1 0 3 1 3 959 7
36 2 4 2 0 0 0 0 1 5 7 4 ° 136:52 1 2 2 1 8 11 1 5 4 1 0 3 0 0 9 5 8 6
37 4 8 1 9 8 8 1 * 5 6 9 5 1 3 6 0 4 1 2 1 9 8 1 1 1 3 ^ 1 0 2 8 7 9575
3 > 15 I 2 J 9 7 6 5 1 5 6 5 1 13 5 7 6 1 2 1 7 8 1 1 1 2 3 1 0 2 7 4 9 5 64
39 3 6 1 9 6 5 2 1 5 6 0 7 1 3 5 4 9 1 2 1 5 9 1 1 1 0 7 1 0 2 6 1 9553
4 0 l6 0 19542 T5 5 ^ 3 1 3 5 2 2 1 2 1 3 9 1 1 0 9 1 1 0 2 4 b 9542
4 1 2 4 19435 1 1 5 SZ 1 3 4 9 5 1 2 1 1 9 1 1 0 7 6 1 0 2 3 5
!
9 5 3 2
4 2 4 8 ; 1 9 3 3 1 15 4 7 ? 1 3 4 6 8 1 2 0 9 9 1 1 0 6 1 ; I O 2 2 3 9 5 2 i
43 i 7 12 1 9 2 2 8
*5435 1 3 4 4 1 1 2 0 8 0 1 1 0 4 5 1 0 2 1 0 9 5 i °
4 4 3 6 1 9 1 2 8 I 5 3 9 3 I * 3 4 1 5 1 2 0 6 1 1 1 0 3 0 I O I 9 7 9 4 9 9 •
45 18 0 1 9 1 3 1 1 5 3 5 1! i 3 3 8 i 1 2 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 5 I O I 8 5 9 4 » '
4 6 2 4 >h 935 1 5 3 1 c 1 3 3 6 2 1 2 0 2 2 ; 1 0 9 1 9 i| I O I 7 2 9 4 7 b
47
1
4 8 188,12: 1 5 2 6 9 13 3 3 6 1 2 0 0 3 109841 1 0 1 ^ 0 94 0 7
i 4 8 I 9 J 2 i s 7 5 1 1 5 2 2 9 1 3 3 1 ° 1 1 9 8 4 . 1 0 9 6 9 1 0 1 4 7 : 9 4 5 6
4 9 3 6 1 8 6 6 1 1 5 1 8 9 1 3 2 8 4 1 1 9 6 5 ; 1 0 9 5 4 1 0 1 35| 9 4 4 6
5 ° 2 0 0 1 8 5 7 5 t J 5 X49 1 3 2 5 ', 11946' 1 0 9 3 9 1 0 1 2 2 ; 9 4 3 5
5 1 2 4 1 8 4 8 7 1 1 5 1 1 0 1 1 3 2 3 3 1 1 9 2 7 ' i o 9 2 4 ( 1 0 1 1 0 ' 9 4 2 5
5 2 4 8 1 8 4 0 c
1 1 5 ° 7 1 1 3 2 0 8 ; 1 1 9 0 b i 1 0 9 0 9 ; 1 0 0 9 8 9 4 1 4
53 21 12 1 8 3 2 c > 1 5° 3 2: 1 3 18 3; n 8 8 c ) 1 0 8 9 5b I O 0 8 5 9 4 0 4
5 4 3 6 1 8 2 3 c ) H 994• 1 3 1 5 8i . 1 1 8 7 j1 1 0 8 8 c
«
> ICO 73: 9 3 9 3
55 2 2 0 1 8 1 5 c i x 4 9 5 61 13133: n 8 5 :> 1 0 8 6 5 ; 1 0 0 6 1 9 3 8 3
56 2 4 1 8 0 8 j
I 1 4 9 1 8 ! 1 3 1 O 'i 1 1 8 3 , } 1 0 8 5 c 1 10 0 4 c;' 9 3 7 2
57 4 8 1 8 0 0 4 I 1 4 8 8 1 13o 8 3» 1 1 8 1(1 1 0 8 3 5 ; 1 0 0 3 6 > 9 3 6 2
58 23 12 1 7 9 2 c ) 14844■ 130 551 1179;7 108 2 ]
1 1 0 0 2 4 r 9 3 5 1
59 36 *7855j 1 4 8 0 8 : 13034- H 7 7 «) 10S06i 1 0 0 1 2 : 9 3 4 i |
6 0 24 O 1 7 7 8 ; » 1 4 7 7 1 1 3 0 1 c a 117611 1 0 7 9 : 1 1 0 0 0 c >
1 9 3 3 Vi
3
Digitized by Gcx ale Original from
M P A l v n c t ' Dl I P I i r I I R B A R V
597
L O G I S ; I C A
. L L O G A R i f H M S.
Minute. 7 8 9 IO 1I 12
- 13 i
420 480 540 600 660 720 780
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h, m. h. m. h. m.
in. f. 2 48 3 12 3 36 4 0 4 24 4 48 5 I2
o 0 9331 8751 8239 7782 7368 6990 6642
1 24 9322 ;742 8231 7774; 7361 6984 6637
2 48 9310 8733 8223 7767i 7354 6978 6631
3 l 12 9300 8724 8215 776° 734° 6972 6623
41 36 9289 87i5 8207 7753 734i 6966 66 zc
5 2
O 9-79 8706 8199 7745 7335 6960 6613
6 24 | 9 ^ 9 8697 8191 7738 7328 6954 6 0c
•
7 48 9219 8688 8183 ■ 773i 7322i
! 6948 6607
8 3 12 9249 8679 8175 7724 7315; 6942 6598
1 9 36 9238 8670 8167 7717 7 3°9| 6936 6592
! i° 4 O 9202 8661 8159 7710 73°2i 6930 6587
!
i
24 9218 8652 8152 77°3j 7296, 6924 6381
! ,2 48 9208 8943 814^ 7698 7289' 6918 6576
13 5 12 9198 8635 8136 7688 72S3 6912 657°
14 36 918' 8626 8128 7681 7276, 6906 6565
15 6 0 9178 8617 8120 7674 7270| 6900 6557
16 24 9168 8608 8112 7667 7264| 6894 6554
*7 48 9158 8599 8104 7660 7257| 6S88 6548
18 7 12 9148 8591 8097 7653 725! 6S82 6543
19 36 9i38 8582 80S9 7646 7244 6877 6538
20 8 0 -9128 8573 8081 7639 7238 6871 6532
21 24 9119 8565 8073 7632 7232 686j 6527
22 48 9109 8556 8066 7625 7225 t8j<> 6521
23 9 12 9°9 , 8547 8058 7618
1
7219 6853) 6516
24 36 ' 9089 8539 8050 7611 7212 68,47 6310!
1 25 IO 0 9070 853° 8043 7604 7206 6841 65°5j
26 24 9070 8522 8035 7597 7:00 6836 6500I
27 48 9060 8513 8027 7590 7193 6830 6494!
28 II 12 9°5C 8504 8020 7583’ 7187 6824 6489
29 36 9041 8496 8012 7577; 7181 6818 ;6484
30 12 0 9031 8477 8004 75701 7175 ■6812 6478!
Digitized by Google Original from
MEUi/ v n c k ' DI ID I Ir I I D D A D V
L 0 cJ I S T I C A L L O G A R I T H M S . -
M
i nute. 7 8 9 IO 11 I2 *3
420
O
C
O
540 600 660 720
O
O
O
r-
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m f.
1
C
O
3 12 3 36 4 0 4 24
00
5 12
. 1
3° 12 O 9031 8487 8004 7570 7 175 6812 6471
3 1 24 9021 8489 7997 7563 7168 6807 6473
32 48 9012 8476 7989 7556 7162 6801 6467
33 *3 12 9002 8462 7981 7549 7 r56 6795 6462
34 36 8992 8453 7974 7542 7 M9 6789 6457
35 14 O 8983 8445 7966 7535 7143 6784 6451
36 24 8973 8437 7959 7528 7*37 6778 6446
37 48 8964 8428 7951 7522 7 I3 1 6772 6441
38 15 12 8954 8420 7944 75’5 7124 6766 6435
39 36 8945 8411 7936 7508 7118 6761 6430
40 l6 0 8935 8403 7929 7501 7112 6755 6425
4 * 24 8926 8395 7921 7494 7106 6749 6420
42 48 8917 8386 7914 7488 7100 6743 6414
43 *7 12 8907 8378 7906 7481 7003 6738 6409
44 36 8898 8370 7899 7474 7087 6732 6404
45 18 0 8888 8361 7891 7467 7081 6726 6398
46 .24 8879 8353 7884 7461 7°7 5 6721 6393
47 48 8870 8345 7877 7454 7069 67 J5 6388
48 19 12 8861 8337 7869 7447 7063 6709 6383
49 36 8851 8328 7862 744i 7°57 6704 6377
50 20 0 8842 8320 7855 7434 7C
5C 6698 6372
51 24 8833 8312 7847 7427 7°44 6692 6367
52 48 8824 8304 7840 7421 7038 6687 636a
53 21 12 8814 8296 7832 7414 7032 6681 6357|
54 36 8805 8288 7825 7407 7026 6676 635i*
55 22 0 8796 8271 7818 7401 7020 6670 6346!
56 24 8787 8279 7811 7394 7OI4 6664 634i‘
57 48 8778 8263 7803 7387 7008 6659 6336
1 -<
8 23 12 8769 8255 7796 7381 7002 6653 633i
59 36 8760 8247 7789 7374 6996 6648 6325
J 60 24 0 875j 8239 7782 7368 6990 6642
Digitized by Google Original from
M P U / v n R k ' Dl IP I i r I I D R A D V
L O G I S T I C A L L O G A R I l H M ft.
Minute. 14 15 10 J7 18 *9 20
840 900 960
1
j 1020 1080 1140 1200 i
Time. h. m. h. m. b. m. h. m. h. in. h. in. h. m.
m. f. 5 36 6 0 6 24 6 48 7 12 7 36j 8 ° !
0 0 6320 6021 5740' 5477 5229 4994 477
1 24 63*5 6016 5736i 5473 5225 4990 4768,
2 48 6310 6011 5731j 5469 5221 4986 4764!
3 i 12 6305 6006 5727 5464 5217 4983 . 4760
4 36 6300 6001 5722 5460 5213 4-979 4757
5 2 O 6294 5997 5718j 5456 5209 4975 4753
6 24 6289 599’ S l l3! 5452 5205 4971 475°
7 48 6284 5987 5799; 5447 5201 4967 4746
8 3 I2 6279 59 "
2 5704 5443 5 197 4964 4742
9 36 6274 5977 5700! 5439 5193 4960 4739
10 4 0 6269 5973 5695 5435 5 l89 4956 4735
11 24 6264 5968 5691 543° 5i85 4952 4732
12 48 6259 5963 5686 5426 5 181 4949 4728
13 5 12 6254 5958 56S2 5422 5*77 4945 4724
h 36 6248 5954 5677 5418 5 l 13 4941 4721
15 6 0 6243 5949 5673 5414 5 i69 4937 47l l
16 24 6238 5944 5669 54°9 5*65 4933 47*4
*7 48 6233 5939 5664 5405 5161 4930 471°
18 7 12 6228 5935 5660 5401 5*57 4926 4707
19 36 6223 5930 5655 5397 5*53; 4922 47°3
20 8 0 6218 5925 5651 5393 5H9! 491b 4699
21 24 6213 5920 5646 5389 5*45 4915 4696
22 48 6208 59*6 5*42 5384 5141 4911 4692
23 9 12 6203 59ii 5637 5380 5 137 4907 4689
24 36 6198 5906 5633 5376 5133 4903 .4685
/ r>
25 IO 0 6193 5902 5629 5372 5129 4900 4682
26 24 6188 5897 5624 5368 5 125 4896 4678
27 48 6183 5892 5620 5364 5122 4892 4674
28 11 12 6178 5888 56 l5 5359 5 118 4889 4671
29 36 6173 5883 5611 5355 5**4 4885 4668
3° 12 0 6178 5878 5607 5351 5110 4881 4664
No. 30. 7 H
Digitized by Gck sle Original from
MP\/i/ vn Dl ID I Ir I I D D A D V
600
■
I 0 G IS 4’ I C A L L O G A R I T H M S.
Minute• H l 5 l6 *7 18 J9 20
840 900 960 1020 1080 1140 I2C
O
Time. h. m.. h. m. h. m. h. m. 1h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. r
. 5 36 6 0 6 24 6 48
. .. 17 12 7 36 8 0
3° 12 O 6168 5878 56°7 53 51 5 110 4881 4664
31 24 6163 5874 5602 5347 5106 4877 4660
32 48 6158 5869 5598 5343 5102 4874 4657
33 13 12 6153 5864 5594 5339 5098 4870 4653
34 36 6148 5860 5589 5335 5°94 4866 4650
35 H O 6143' 5855 5585 533 *1 5°9° 4863 4646
36 24 6138 /850 558o 5326 5086 4859 4643
37 48 6133 5846 5576 5322 5082 4855 4 ^ 9
38 15 12 6128 584* 5572 53l8 5°79 4852 4636
39 36 6123 5836 5567 53*4 5°75 4848 4632
40 16 0 6118 5832 5563 531Q 5071 4844 4629
41 24 6113 5827 5550 53°6 5067 4841 4625
42 48 6108 5823 5554 53°2 5o63 4837 4622
43 17 12 6103 5818 555° 5298 5°59 4833 4618
44 36 6099 5813 5546 5294 5°55 4830 4615
45 18 0 6094 5809 5541 5290 5°5 I 4826 4611
46 24 6089 5804 5537 5285 5048 4822 460S
47 48 6084 5800 5533 5281 5°44 4819 4604
48 l 9 12 6079 5795 5528 5277 5°4° 4815 4601
49 36 6074 5790 5524 5273 5°36 4811 4597
5° 2 0 0 6069 5786 5520 5269 5°3 2 4808 4594
51 24 6064 5781 55l6 5265 5029 4804 459°
52 48 6 o 59 5777 55ii 5261 5025 4800 4587
53 21 12 6°55 S772 5507 5257 5021 4797 4584
54* 36 605c1 5768 55°3 5253 5°i7 4793 4580
55 22 0 6045 5763 5498 ; 5249 5°i3 4789 4577
56 24 60401 5758 5494 1 5245 5°°9 4786 4573
57 48 6035 5754 549°; 5241 5°°5 4782 457°
58 23 12 6030 5749 5486 5237 5°°2 4778 4566
59 36 6025 5745 548i 5233 4998 4775 45 63
.1 60 24 0 6021 5740 5477 5229 4994 477i 4559
2
digitized by G O O O l C
Original from
MCVA/ V r i R ^ Dl I P I I r I I D D A D V
L O G I S T I C A L L O G A R I T H M S .
Minute. 21 ‘ 22 23 24 25 20 2 7
1260 1320 138° r44° 1500 1560 1620
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. ro. h. m. h. m.
m. r
. 8 24
!
0
0
oc
9 12 9 36 10 0 io 24
►
M
O
G
O
o O 4559 4357 4164 3979 3802 3632 3468
I 24 4556 4354 4161 3976 3799 36a9 34%
2 48 4552 4351 4 i 58 3973 3796 3626 3465
3 1 I2 4549 4347 4*55 397° 3793 3623 3460
4 36 4546 4344 4152 39^7 3791 3621 3457
5 2 O 4542 4341 4149 3964 3788• 36iS 3454
.6 24 4539 4338 4145 3961 3785 3615 3452
7 48 4535 4334 4142 3958 3782 3612 3449
✓
8 3 12 4532 4331 4 i39 3955 3779 3610 3446
9 36 4528 4328 4»36 3952 3776 3607 3444
IO 4 0 ‘ 4525 4325 4 i35 3949 3773 3604 3441
11 24 4522 4321 4 *3° 3946 377° 3601 3438
J2 48 45l8 4318 4127 3943 3768 3598 3436
13 5 12 4515 4315 4124 394© 3765 3596 3433
14 3 6 4511 4311 4120 3937 3762 3593 343 >
15 6 0 4508 4308 4117 3934 3759 359° 3428
16 24 45°5 43©5 4114 3931 3756 3587 3425
*7 48 45°i 43D
I 4111 3928 3753 3585 3423
18 7 12 4498 4298 4108 3925 3750 s3582 3420
19 36 4494 4295 4 1Q5 3922 3747 3579 3417
20 8 0 4491 4292 4102 3919 .3745 3576 3415
21 24 4488 4289 4099 3917 3742 .3574 3412
2 2 48 44841 4 2 8 5 4096 39H 3739 3571 3409
23 9 12 4481 4282 4092 39H 3736 3568 3407
24 36 4477 4279 4089 3908 3733 3565 34°4
25 IO 0 4474 4276 4086 39°5 373© 3563 34©i
26 2 4 4471 4273 4 0 8 3 39°2 3727 356° 3399
27 48 4467 4269 4080 3 8 9 9 3725 3557 3396
28 I I 12 4464 4266 4077 3896 3722 3555 3393
29 36 4460 4263 4°72 3893 3 1 19 355 2 3391
A O
3 0 12 0 4457 4260 4071 3890 3716 3549 3388
Original from
v n R k ' di idi ir
L O G I 'S T
' I C A L L O G A R I T H M S .
M
i nute. 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
1260 1320 1380 1440 1500 1560 1620
T im e . h. m. b. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. in. :
m r.
C
M
C
O
C
O
T
h
00
9 12 9 36 10 O 10 24 i° 48'
3° 12 0 4457 4260 4071 3890 37l6 3549 3388
3 * 24 4454 4256 4068 3887 3713 3546 3386
32 48 4450 4253 4065 3884 37lo 3544 3383
33 13 12 4447 425° 4062 3881 3708 3541 338o;
34 36 4444 4247 4059 3878 3705 35 S8 3378
35 14 O 4440 4244 4055 3875 37°~ 3535 3375
36 24 4437 4240 4052 3872 3699 3533 3372
37 48 4434 4237 4049 3869 3696 35 30 337°
38 15 12 443° 4234 4046 3866 3693 3527 3367
39 36 4427 4231 4°43 3863 3691 3525 3365
4° l6 0 4424 4228 4040 3860 3688 3522 3362
4 1 24 4420 4224 4037 3857 368s 35r9 3359
42 48 44i7 4221 4034 3855 3682 35l6 3357
43 *7 12 4414 4218 4°31 3852 3679 35!4 3354
•44 36 4410 4215 4028 3849 3677 3511 3351
45 18 0 4407 4212 4025 3846 3674 35°8 '3349
46 24 4404 4209 4022 3843 3671 35c6 3346
47 48 4400 4205 4019 3840 3668 3503 3344 .
48 19 12 4397 4202 4016 3837 3665 3500 334*
49 36 1 4394 4199 4013 3834 3663 3497 3338
5° 20 0 4390 4 1 9 6 4010 3831 3660 3494 3336
51 24 4387 4193 4007 3828 3 657 3492 3333
52 48 4384 4189 4004 3 8 2 5 3 6 5 4 3489 333*
53 21 12 4380 4 1 8 6 4001 3822 3651 3487 3328
54 36 4377 4 1 8 3 3998 3820 3 6 4 6 3484 3325 •
55 22 0 4374 4 1 8 0 3995 3 8 1 7 3646 3 4 8 1 3323
56 24 437° 4*77 3991 3814 3643 3479 332P
57 48 4367 4174 3988 3811 3640 3476 33* 8,
1 58 23 12 43*>4 4 1 7 1 3 9 8 5 3808 3*>37 3473 33*5
59 36 4361 4 1 6 7 3982 3 8 0 5 3 6 3 5 3471 3343
6 0 2 4 O 4357 4164 3979 3 8 0 2 3 63^ 3 4 6 8
digitized by G O O O l C
Original from
m c i a / v n p t ' D i i m ir i i d r a r v
L O <
3 I S T I C A L L O G A R I T H M S .
Minute. 28 29 30 31 32 33 34
1680 1,740 1800 i860 1920
'O
OO
O
2040
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 11 12 11 26 12 0 12 24
to
OO
13 12 13 36
O O 33*° 3158 3010 2868 2730 2596 2467!
1 24 33°7 3*55 3008 2866 2728 2594 2465
2 48 33°5 3*53 3005 2863 2725 2592 2462
3 1 12 3302 3150 3000 2861 2723 259° 2460
4 36 3 3°6 3J48 3002 2859 2721 2588 2458
5 2 O 3297 3H5 2998 2856 2719 2585 2456
6 24 3294 3H3 2996 2854 2716 2583 2454
7 4s 3292 3J40 2993 2852 2714 2581 2452
8 3 12 3289 3J38 2991 2849 2712 2579 2450
9 36 3287 3*35 2989 2847 2710 2577 2448
10 4 0 3284 3*33 2986 2845 2707 2574 2445
11 24 3282 313° 2984 2842 2705 2572 2443
12 48 3279 3I28 2981 2840 2703 2570 2441
13 5 12 3276 3 125 2979 2838 2701 2568 2439
14 36 3274 3 I23 2977 2835 2698 2565 2437
15 6 0 32! 1 312° 2974 2833 2696 2563 2435
16 24 3269 3118 2972 2831 2694 2561 2433
x7 48 3266 3115 2969 2828 2692 2559 2431
18 7 12 3264 31J3 2967 2826 2689 2557 2429
19 36 3261 3110 2965 2824 2687 2555 2426
20 8 0 32591 3 108 2962 2821 2685 2553 2424
21 1
24 32561 3 i o 5 2960 2819 2683; 2551 2422
22
1
48 3253,
1 3103 2958 2817 2681 2548 2420
23 1 9 12 3251 3101 2955 2815 2678 2546 2418
24 36 3248 3°98 2953 2812 2676 2544 2416
25 IO 0 3246 3096 2950 2810 2674 2542 2414
26 24 3243 3°93 2948 2808 2672 2540 2412
27 48 324i 3091 2946 2805 2669 2538 2410
28 11 12 3 238 3888 2943 2803 2667 2535 2408
29 36 3236 3086 2941 2801 2665 2533 2405
3° 12 0 3233 3083 2939 27981 2663 2531 2403
No. 30. 7 *
Original from
MPUf v n R b ' di ip 1 1r 1 i p p a p v
L O G I S T I C A L L O G A R I T H M S .
Min ute• 28 29 3° 31 32 33 34
1680 1740 1800 i860 1930 1980 2040
Time. b. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. r. 11 12 11 16:12 0 12 24 12 48: 13 12J*3 36
3° 12 O 3233 3 °* 3 2939 2798 2663I 2531 2403
31 24 3231 3°8 i 2936) 2796 2660 2529 2401
32 48 3228 3078 2934 •2794 2658 2527 2399
33 !3 12 3225 3076 2931 2792 2656 2525 2397
34 36 3223 3° 73| 2929 2789 2654 2522 2395
35 14 O 3220 3°7 !j 2927 2787 2652 2520 2393
36 24 3218 3069' 2924 2785 2649 2518 2391
37 48 3215 3065 2922 2782 2647 2516 2389
38 15 12 32 ,3 3064 2920 2780 2645 25H 2387
39
16
36 3210 3061 2917 2778 2643 2512 2384
4° 0 3208 3°59 2915 2775 2640 2510 2382
4 i 24 3205 3° 56 2912 2773 2638 2507 .2380
42 48 3203 3°54
1
I 2910 2771 2636 25°5 2378
43 17 12 3200 3052 2908 2769 2634 2503 2376
44
18
36 3198 3049 2905 2766 2632 2501 2374
45 0 3195 3047 2903 2764 2629 2499 2372
46 24 3 193 3°44 2901 2762 2627 2497 2370
47 48 3*9°1 3° 42 2898 2760 2625 2494 2368
48 19 12 3188: 3°39 .. 2896 2757 2623 2492 2366
49 36 3l8 5
' 3037 2894■ 2755 2621 2490 2364
5° 20 0 3i8 3
1 3034 2891 2753 2618 2488 2362
5i 24 318c> 3032 28891 2750 26161 2486 2359
52 48 3178! 30301 2887’ 2748 2614 2484 2357
53 21 12 3 i7fI 3°27’ 28S4[ 27461 2612: 2482 2355
54 36 3»7 *
1 3025; 2882' 2744 261c» 2480’ 2353
55 22 0 3 i7c> 3022 288c> 2741 2607- 2477’ 2351
56 24 31685 302c> 2877’ 27391 2605; 2475 2349
57 48 3 l 6 ‘; 3° i £: 2875; 2737 26051 2473! 2347
58 23 12 3 i6:5 3°iJ; 287^! 2735 2601 2471 2345
59 36 316c> 3013! 287c) 2732; 2S99> 2469' 2343
*0 24 0 3i5c
>
| 301c> 2868’ 27301 25961 2467 2341
Digitized by Google Original from
v n o k ' Dl I P I i r I I P P A R V
OF A S T R O L O G Y 605
L O G I S i I C A L L O G A R I T H M S .
Minute. 35 36 37 38 39 40 4 i
2IO
O 2160 2220 2280 2340 2400 2460
Time. h . m . h . m . b . m . h . m . h . m . h . m . h . m .
1
1
1
. f. 14 O »4 24 14 48 15 12 15 16 0 16 24
O O 2341 2218
1
I 2°99 1984 1871 1761 1654
I 24 2339 2216 2098 1982 1869 *759 1652
2 48 2337 2214 2096 1980 1867 1757 1650
3 1 12 2335 2212 2094 1978 1865 *755 1648
4 36 2333 2210 2092 1976 1863 1754 1647
5 2 O 2331 2 2 c 8 2090 *974 1862 1752 1645
6 24 2328 2206 2088 197z i860! *75° 1643
7 48 2326 2204 2086 1970 1858 1748 1641
8 3 12 2324 2202 2084 1968 1856 1746 1640
9 36 2322 2200 2082 1967 1854 J745 1638
IO 4 0 232° 2198 2080 1 9 6 5 1852 J743 1636
11 24 2318 2196 207^ 1963 1850 1741 *634
12 48 2316 2194 2076 1961 1849 J739 l6 33
13 5 12 23H 2192 2074 *959 i^47 1737 1631
*4 36 2312 2190 2072 I957 1845 1736 1629
15 6 0 2310 2188 2070 1955 1 8 4 3 J734 1627
16 24 2308 21S6 2068 1953 1841 J732 1626
*7 48 2306 2184 2066 *951 * 8 3 9 1730 1624
18 7 12 2304 .2182 2064 195° 1838 1728 1622
19 36 2302 2180 2062 1948 1836 1727 1620
20 8 0 2300 2178 2061 1946 1834 i725! 1619
21 24 2298 2176: 2059 1944 1832 1723 1617
22 48 2296 2174I 2057 1942 1830 1721 1615
23 9 12 2294 2172 2055 1940 1828 1719 1613
24 36 2291 2170 2053 1938 1827 1718 1612
2? IO 0 2289 2169 2051 1936 1825 1716 161c
26 24 2237 2167 2049 1934 1823 1714 1608.|
27 48 2285 2165 2047 *933 1821 1712 l i ool
28 11 12 2283 2163 2°45 1931 1819 17x1 16051
29 36 2281 2161 2°43 1929 1117! 17 ° 9 1603!
3 o , 12 0 2279 2159 2041 1927 1S 16 1707 1601:
digitized by G O O O l C
Original from
m c v a / v n p t ' D i i m 1r 1 i d r a r v
L 6 G I S T I C A L L O G A R I T H M S.
Minute. 35 36 37 38 39 40 '
41 1
2100 2160 2220 2280 2340 2400 2460
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. .
m. r. 14. O 14 24
O
O
T
h
t
J
-
15 12 15 36 16 9 16 24
3° 12 0 2279 2159 2041 1927 1816 1707 1601
3 1 24 2277 2157 2039 I925| 1814 17°5 1599
32 48 2275 2155 2037 1923 1812 1703 1598
33 13 12 2273 2153 2O35 1921 1810 1702 1596
34 j 36 2271 2151 2033 1919 1808 1700 1594
35 |14 0 . 2269 2149 2032 1918 1806 1698 *592
36 24 2267 2147 2O
3O 1916 1805 1696 I591
37 48 2265 2145 2028 1914 1803 1694 *589
38 15 12 2263 2143 2026 1912 x8oi 1693 1587
39
l6
36 2261 2141 2024 1910 1799 1691 1585
40 0 2259 2139 2022 1908 *797 1689 1584
4 1 24 2257 2137 2020 X906 1795 1687 1582
42 48 2255 2135 2018 1904 J794 1686 1580
43 *7 12 2253 2133 20l6 1903 1792 1684 1578
44
18
36 2251 2131 2014 1901 1790 1682 l 577
45 0 2249 2129 2012 1899 1788 1680 1S15
46 24 2247 2127 2010 1897 1786 1678 1513
47 48 2245 2125 2009 1895 *785 1677 1S7 1
48 *9 12 2243 2123 2007 1893 1783 i 675 1570
49 36 2241 2121 2005 1891 1781 1673 1568
5° 20 0 2239 21191 2003 1889 1779 1671 1566
51 24 2237 2117 2001 1888 *777 1670 156 S
52 48 2235 2115 1999 1886 . 1775 1668 i563
53 21 12 2233 2113i 1997 1884 *774 1666 1561
54 36 2231 211J 1995 1882 1772 1664[ 1559
55 22 0 2229 2l0g> 1993 1880 177c• 1663! J558
56 24 2227 2107’ I991 1878 1768 1661 JS56l
57 48 2225 21O3; 19891 1876' 176 1 1659 J554
58 23 12 2223 21031 1987 »875 j76S l6 57 1552
59 36 2220 2101 19861 1873 17631 1655 *55*
60 24 0 22l8 2095> 1984 1871 1761 1654 1549
Digitized by Goosle Original from
v n c k ' D i i m i r i i r r a r v
L O G I S T I C A L L . O G A R I T H M S .
Minute. 42 43 44 45 46 47 48
2520
O
O
O
2640 27O
O
--
2760 2820 2880
Time. h. m. h. m. b. in. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. r. 16 4' 17 12 17 36 18 0
I
18 24
O
O
O
O
19 12
O O 1549 »447 *347 1249 1154 1061 969
_/■
O
1 24 1547 1445 *345 1248 1152 1059 968
/ /
2 48 1546 1443 *344 1246 115 1 1057 966
/
3 1 12 1544 1442 *342 1245 1149 *°56. 965
4 36 1542 1440 *34° 1243 1148 i°54, 963
5 2 O 1540 *438 *339 1241 i *
%
46 i°53 962
6 24 *539 *437 *337 1240 1145 1051 960
7 48 1537 *435 *335 1238 i *43 1050 959
8 3 12 1535 *433 *334 *237 1141 1048 957
/
9 36 J534 *432 *332 *235 1140 1047 956
10 4 0 1532 *43° *33' *233 1138 1045 954
11 24 153° 1428 *329 1232 **37 1044 953
12 48 1528 1427 1327 1230 **35 1042 95*
13 5 12 1527 1425 1326 1229 **34 1041 95°
_ , g
H 3 6 *525 1423 *324 1227 1132 1039 948
15 6 0 1523 1422 1322 1225 **3° *°37 947
16 24 1522 1420 1321 1224 1129 1036 945
*7 48 152° 1418 *
.3*9 1222 1127 *034 944
18 7 12 1518 1417 *3*7 1221 1126 *°33 942
*9 36 1516 *4 I5 *3*6 1219 1124 1031 9 4 i
20 8 0 *4*3 13 14 1217 1123 1030 939
21 24 1513 1412 *3*3 1216 1121 1028 938
^ /
22 48 1511 1410 1311 1214 1119 1027 93°
23 9 12 1510 1408 1309 1213 1x18 1025 935
24 36 1508 1407 1308 1211 1116 1024 933
25 IO 0 1506 1405 1306 1209 1**5 1022 932
26 24 i 5°4 1403 *3°4 1208 * *13 1021 93°
27 48 *5°3 1402 *3°3 1206 1112 1019 929
28 I 1 12 1501 1400 *3 °* 1205 1110 1018 927
29 36 *499 *398 *3°° 1203 1109 1016 926
.39 12 0 1498 13971 1 298 1201 1107 1015 9 24 ;
No. 30. 7 K-
6o8 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Digitized
i JU
, O G I S T I C A >L L O G A R I T H M S.
M i n u t e . 4 2 43 44 45 46 47 4 8
2 5 2 0 2 5 8 0 2 6 4 0 2 7 0 0 2 7 6 0 2 8 2 0 2 8 8 0
T i m e . h . m . h . m . h . m . h . m . h . m . h . m . h . m .
m . f . 1 6 4 8 1 7 1 2 1 7 3 6 1 8 0
<
N
O
O
iH
O
O
0
0
1 9 1 2
3 ° 1 2 0 1 4 9 8
1 3 9 7
1 2 9 8 1 2 0 1 1 1 0 7 1 0 1 5 9 2 4
3 1 2 4 1 4 9 6
1 3 9 5
1 2 9 6 1 2 0 0 1 1 0 5 1 0 1 3
923
3 2 4 8 1 4 9 4
1 3 9 3
1 2 9 5 1 1 9 8 I I 0 4 1 0 1 2 9 2 1
33 J3 1 2 1493 1 3 9 2 1 2 9 3 “ 97 1 1 0 2 1 0 1 0 9 2 0
34 3 6 1 4 9 1 1 3 9 0 1 2 9 1
*195 I I O I 1 0 0 8 9 1 8
35 14 O 1 4 8 9 1 3 8 8 1 2 9 0
1193 ib 9g 1 0 0 7 9 1 7
36 2 4 1 4 8 7
1 3 8 7
1 2 8 8 1 1 9 2 1 0 9 8 1 0 0 5 915
37 4 8 1 4 8 6
1 3 8 5
1 2 8 7 1 1 9 0 1 0 9 6 1 0 0 4 9 H
3 8 15 1 2 1 4 8 4
1 3 8 3
1 2 8 5 1 1 8 9
1095 1 0 0 2 9 1 2
39
l 6
3 6 1 4 8 2 1 3 8 2 1 2 8 3 1 1 8 7 i °93 1 0 0 1 9 1 1
4 0 0 1 4 8 1 1 3 8 0 1 2 8 2 1 1 8 6 1 0 9 1
999 9 0 9
41 2 4 1479 1 3 7 8
1 2 8 0 1 1 8 4 1 0 9 0 9 9 8 9 0 8
4 2 4s ' H 77 1 3 7 7
1 2 7 8 1 1 8 2 1 0 8 8 9 9 6 9 0 6
4 3 ' 17 1 2 1 4 7 6
1 3 7 5 1277 1 1 8 1 1 0 8 7
995 9°5
44
1 8
36 1474 1 3 7 3
1 2 7 5 1 1 7 9 1 0 8 5
993 905
45 0 1 4 7 2 1 3 7 2 1 2 7 4 1 1 7 8 1 0 8 4 9 9 2 9 0 2
4 6 2 4 1 4 7 0 1 3 7 °
1 2 7 2 1 1 7 6 1 0 8 2 9 9 0 • 9 0 0
47 4 8 1 4 6 9
1 3 6 8
1 2 7 0 1174 1 0 8 1 9 8 9 8 9 9
4 8
19 1 2 1 4 6 7 1 3 6 7 1 2 6 9 1173 1 0 7 9 9 8 7 8 9 7
49 3 6 1 4 6 5 i 36 5 1 2 6 7 1 1 7 1 1 0 7 8 9 8 6 8 9 6
5 ° 2 0 0 1 4 6 4
t 3 6 3 1 2 6 6 1 1 7 0 J 0 7 6 9 8 4 8 9 4
5 1 2 4 1 4 6 2 1 3 6 2 1 2 6 4 1 1 6 8 1 0 7 4 9 8 3 893
5 2 4 8 1 4 6 0 1 3 6 0 1 2 6 2 1 1 6 7 i °73 9 8 j 8 9 1
53 2 1 1 2
1459 J359 1 2 6 1 1 1 6 5 1 0 7 1 9 8 0 890
54 36 1457 1357 1 2 5 9 1 1 6 3 1 0 7 0 9 7 8 8 8 8
55 2 2 0
14 55 1 355 1257 1 1 6 2 1 0 6 8
1 977 8 8 7
5 6 2 4 1454 1354 1 2 5 6 1 1 6 0 1 0 6 7
975 883
57 4 8 1 4 5 2 1 3 5 2 1 2 5 4 1159 1 0 6 5
974 8 8 4
5 8 2 3 1 2 1 4 5 0 1350 1253 1157 1 0 6 4
97 2 8 8 3
3 6 1 4 4 9
1339 1 2 5 1 U 5 6 1 0 6 2 9 7 1 8 8 1
6 0 2 4 0
1447 1347 1 2 4 9 1154 1 0 6 1 9 6 9 8 8 c
----------.11*
b
yGc
k»gle Original from
v n o k ' D i i m i r i i d p a r v
I T U G I S I I C A L L O G A R I 1 H M 5 .
M i n u t e . 49 5 ° 51
5 2 53 54 55 !
2940 3 0 0 0 3 0 6 0 3 1 2 0 3 i 8 o 3 2 4 0 3 3 0 0
T i m e . h . m . h . m .
1
h . m . h . m . h . i n . h . m . h . m .
t n . f. 19 3 6 ,20 0 2 0 2 4
O
O
O
<
N
21 12
40
C
O
0
2 2 0
o O 8 S 0 7 9 2 7 0 6 6 2 1 539 4 5 8 3 78
I 2 4 8 7 9 7 9 0 7 ° 4 6 2 0 5 3 7 4 5 6 377
2 4 8 877 7 8 9 7 °3 6 1 9 5 3 6 455 375
3 1 12 87 S 7 8 7 7 0 2 6 1 7 535 454 374
4 1 3 6 8 7 4 7 8 6 7 0 0 6 1 6 533 4 5 2 373
5 2
O 8 7 2 7 8 5 6 9 9 6 *5 532 4 5 * 3 7 *
6 2 4 8 7 1 7 8 3 6 9 7 6 1 3 5 3 i 4 5 c 3 7 c
7 4 8 8 6 9 7 8 2 6 9 6 6 1 2 5 29 4 4 8 3 6 9 •
8 2 12 8 6 8 7 8 0 6 9 4 6 1 0 5 2S 4 4 7 3 6 7
9
j
3 6 8 6 6 7 79 6 93 6 0 9 5 2 6 4 4 6 3 6 6
I O 4
v y
0 865! 7 77 6 9 2 6 0 8 5 2 5 4 4 4 3 6 5
11
I
2 4 8 6 3 ; 7 7 6 6 9 0 6 0 6 5 24 443 3 6 3
i
! 12 4 8 8 6 2 774 6 8 9 6 0 5
i
5 2 2 4 4 2 3 6 2
13 5 1 2 8 6 0 773 6 ^ 7 6 0 3 5 21 4 4 0 3 6 1
14. 3 6 8 5 9 7 7 2 6 8 6 6 0 2 5 2 0 4 3 9 359
T
I c 6 0 857 7 7 °
6 8 5 6 0 1 5 1 8 4 38 358
J
16 2 4 8 56 7 6 9 6 8 3 599 5*7 4 3 6 357
*7 4 8 855 7 6 7 6 8 2 598 . 5*6 4 3 5 356
l 8 7 12 853 7 6 6 6 8 0 5 96 5 * 4 4 34 3 5 4
19 36 8 5 2 7 6 4 6 7 9 595 5*3 4 3 2 3 5 3
2 0 8 O 8 5 0 7 6 3 6 7 8 5 9 4 5 *2 4 3 * 35 2
21 2 4 8 4 9 7 6 2 6 7 6 5 92 5 10 4 3 ° 3 5 °
2 2 4 8 8 4 7 7 6 0 6 75 5 9 i 5 ° 9 4 2 8 349
23 9 12 8 4 6 7 59 6 73 5 9 ° 5 °7 4 2 7 348
2 4 36 8 4 4 757 6 7 2 5 8 8 5 0 6 4 2 6 346
2 C 10 O 8 4 3 7 5 6 6 7 0 5 8 7 5 °5 4 2 4 345
2 6 24 841 7 5 4 6 6 9 5 8 5 503 4 2 3 344
27 4 8 8 4 0 753 6 6 8 5 8 4 5 0 2 4 2 2 3 4 2
28 11 12 8 3 8 7 5 1 6 6 6 5 8 3 5 ° * 4 2 0 3 4 *
2 0 36 837 7 5 ° 6 6 5 5 8 1 499 4 1 9 3 4 °
3 0 1 2
0
O 835 7 4 9 6 6 3 5 8 0 4 9 8 4 1 8 ,339
Original from
M C U / V C W lY D l I Q I Ir I I D E A D V
Digitized by
L O G I S T I C A L L o G A R I T H \! S.
M i n u t e .
49 5 ° 5 1 5 2 I
i
53 54 55
2 9 4 0 3C O O 3 0 6 0 3 1 2 0 ] 3 1 8 0 3 2 4 0 3 3 o o
T i m e ,
m . f .
h . m .
1 9 3 6
h . m .
2 0 0
h . m .
2 0 2 4
h . m . |
2 0 4 8
h . m .
2 1 1 2
h . m .
2 1 3 6
h . m .
j 2 2 O
3°
3 1
32
33
3 4
35
1 2 0
2 4
4 8
1 3 1 2
^ 36
1 4 0
835
8 3 4
833
8 3 1
8 3 0
8 2 8
749
747
7 4 6
7 4 4
743
7 4 i
6 6 3
6 6 2
6 6 1
6 59
6 5 8
6 5 6
5 8 0
579
577
5 7 6
574
573
4 9 S
497
495
494
493
4 9 1
4 1 8
4 1 6
415
4 1 4
4 1 2
4 1 1
339
' - 337
336
335
333
33 2
36
37
38
39
4 0
4 1
2 4
4 8
15 1 2
36
1 6 0
2 4
8 2 7
8 2 5
8 2 4
8 2 2
8 2 1
8 1 9
7 4 0
739
737
736
7 3 4
733
6 55
6 5 4
6 5 2
6 5 *
6 4 9
6 4 8
572
570
5 69
5 6 8
5 6 6
5 6 5
4 9 0
4 8 9
4 8 7
4 8 6
4 8 4
‘ 4 8 3
4 1 0
4 0 8
4 0 7
4 0 6
4 0 4
4°3
3 3 1
3 29
3 2 8
327
3 2 6
3 24
4 2
43
44
45
4 6
! 4 7
4 8
1 7 1 2
0 3 6
1 8 0
2 4
4 8
8 1 8
8 1 6
’ 8 1 c
8 1 4
8 1 2
8 1 1
7 3 i
7 3 °
7 2 9
7 2 7
7 2 6
7 2 4
6 4 7
6 4 5
6 4 4
6 4 2
6 4 1
6 4 °
5 6 3
5 6 2
5 6 1
559
558
557
4 8 2
4 8 0
479
4 7 8
4 7 6
475
4 0 2
4 c 0
399
398
3 9 6
395
3 2 3
3 2 2
3 2 0
319
3 1 8
3 1 6
1 4 8
! 49
5°
5 1
5 2
53
1 9 1 2
36
2 0 0
2 4
4 8
2 1 1 2
8 0 9
8 0 8
8 0 6
8 0 5
8 0 3
8 0 2
723
7 2 1
7 2 0
7 1 9
7*7
7 1 6
6 3 8
6 37
635
6 3 4
6 3 3
6 3 1
I
555
554
5 5 2
5 5 1
5 5 ° :
5 4 8
4 7 4
4 7 2
4 7 i
4 7 0
4 6 8
4 6 7
394
392
3 9 i
390
3 8 8
3 8 7
3*5
3*4
3*3
3 * i
3 1 0
309
1 54
55
5 6
57
I 5 '
59
| 6 0
36
2 l O
24
4 8
2 3 1 2
3^>
2 4 O
8 0 1
799
7 9 8
7 9 6
795
793
7 9 2
7 * 4
7*3
7 1 1
7 1 0
7 0 9
7 0 7
7 0 6
6 3 0
6 2 8
6 2 7
6 2 6
6 2 4
6 2 3
6 2 1
547
546
544
543
5 4 i
5 4 0
539
4 6 6
4 6 4
4 6 3
4 6 2
4 6 0
459
458
3 8 6
3 8 4
3 8 3
3 8 2
3 8 1
379
378
3°7
3 q 6
3 0 5
304
3®2
3 0 1
— £ 5 ,
Google Original from
v n c f c ' Dl ID I I r I I Q Q A D V
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 611
L 0 G 1 s r I C A L L O G A R I T H M S.
Minute 57 58 * 59
336° 3420 8480 3540
Time
■
h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 22 24 22 48 23 12 23 36
o O 300 223 H 7 73
1 24 298 221 146 72
2 48 297 220 *45 71
- 3 I 12 296 219 143 69
4 36 294 218 142 . 68
5 O O 293 216 141 67
6 24 292 215 140 66
7 48 291 2I4 139 64
8 3 12 289 213 137 63
9 36 288 211 136 62
io 4 0 287 210 135 61
11 24 285 209 134 1 60
.2 48 284 208 J3 2 , 58
5 I2 283 . 206 131 57
H 36 282 205 13° 56
15 6 O 280 204 129 55
16 24 279. 202 127 53
i7 48 278 201 126 52
18 7 12 276 200 I25 5i
19 36 275 *99 124
.._ 50
20 8 0 274 197 122 49
21 24 273 >96 121 47
22 48 271 195 120 46
23 9 12 270 194 i 19 45
24 36 269 192 1X7 44 I
25 IO 0 267 191 116 42
26 24 266 190 115 4 i
27 48 265 189 “ 4 4°
28 11 12 264 187 ' 112 39
29 3^ 262 186 I 11 38
3° 12 0 261 185 I IO 36
Digitizet N
t?o\ sle
7 L Original from
M P A / v n o t ' Dl I P I I r I I P D A D V
6 l 2 a n I L L U S T R A T I O N
L O G I 3 T I C A L L O G A R I T H M S. |
Minute 56 57 58 59
336° 3420 j 3480 354°
Time h. m . h. m. I h. m. h. m.
m. r. 22 24 22 48 I 23 12 23 3 6
3° 12 O 261 185 110 36
3 i 24 260 184 log 35
32 1
48 258 182 107 34
33 i »3 12 257 181
1
106 33 {
34 i 36 256 180 105 |
1
3 1 i
3 ? 14 O 255 179 io 4 ' 3° j
36 24 253 177 IO3 29 !
37 48 252 176 101 28 !
I
38 15 12 251 175 100 i
27 !
39 36 250 *74 99 25 !
40 16 0 248 172 98 24 !
41 24 247 171 96 23 j
42 48 246 170 95 22 j
43 *7 12 244 169 94 21 j.
44 36 243 167 93 *9 1
45 18 0 242 166 9 1 18 1
46 24 1 241 l6 5 90 >7
47 48 ; 239 !
I l6 3 89 16
48 19 12 1 2 38 | 162 88 *5
49 36 ! 237 j 161 I 87 13 i
5° 20 0 235 160
o5
12
5 i 24 234 158 1 84 I X
52 48 233 *57 1 8 3 10
53 21 12 232 j 56 j 82 8
!
54
1
*
36 230 155 80 7
55 22 0 229 153 79 6
56 24 228 >52 7 8 5
57 48 227 151 7 7 4
58 23 12 225 , 5° 75 2
59 3 6 224 148 7 4 I
\l 60 24 0 223 *47 73 O
Digitized by G O O O l C
Original from
i c i /i/ v n c k ' D i i m ir i i d d a d v
OF AS TROLOGY. 613
USE of the foregoing Tables of LOGISTICAL LOGA RITHM S.
E X A M P L E I.
Suppofe, in refpedt of motion, it be required to find the true place of
Venus thirty-fix minutes before twelve o’clock at noon, on the n th of
June, 1784. The operation is to be performed in the following manner.
Refer to page 179 of this work, and take the place of Venus for the
eleventh and tenth days at noon, which will be found to be.
On the eleventh day at noon in Gemini - 3 53
On the tenth day in ditto - - - 2 41
Subtract the lefs from the greater, and there re­
mains the diurnal motion - - t 12
Then by the rule of proportion, if twenty-four hours give one de­
gree twelve minutes, what will thirty-fix minutes of time give ? Apply
to the tables of logiftical logarithms; and in the firlL column at the top
feek one degree, and in the firft fide column on the left hand find twelve
minutes; the logarithm anfwering thereto will be found in the common
angle of meeting, which will be - 16990
In the fame manner feek for thirty-fix minutes - 2218
Which fubtraft, and there will remain - - 14772
This number mull likewife be fought in the table; but, as none is found
anfwering thereto nearer than 1477, look in the top column, and this lo­
garithm ftands under 2 min. and even with o in the left-hand column,
which {hews the motion of Venus in thirty-fix minutes of time to be
two minutes; and, if this be fubtradted from the place of Venus that day
at twelve o’clock, the remainder will be the true place of Venus at thir­
ty-fix minutes before noon, as required, viz. in five degrees five minutes
of Gemini.
E X A M P L E II.
In rcfpeT of time, let us admit the Moon in twenty-four hours tq
move thirteen degrees five minutes, and it be required to know what is
her motion in five hours twenty minutes ? proceed thus; feek on the top
of the table for thirteen degrees, and five minutes in the firfi: column on
the left hand, and in the angle of meeting take the logarithm 6614;
then, in the third column on the top of the table, feek five hours twenty
minutes, but, finding only five hours twelve minutes, we rauft therefore
3 have
O
rigirral from
m p w v n o v d i i p 1 i r i i p d a d v
614 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
have recourfe to the fecond column on the left hand, and feck 8 under
the chara&er of min, and even therewith, in the angle of meeting, will
be found - 6532
To which * add the above number - - 6614
And the fum will be - - - - 13146
For w'hich look into the table, and it will be found to give two degrees
fifty-four minutes, which is the motion of the Moon in five hours twenty
minutes.
E X A M P L E III.
If a part proportional between two numbers be required, as for in-
flance the oblique afeenfion of Jupiter, in feven degrees thirty-fix mi­
nutes of Pifces, in one degree fouth latitude, under the elevation of the
pole of 51 deg. 32 min. then refer to the table of oblique afeenfion in
page 388; in the firft column of the left hand feek eight degrees, and
under one degree on the head of the table, in the angle of meeting, will
be found - - - - - 332 16
Take the oblique afeenfion of feven degrees, viz. - g j i 30
And fubtraCt the lefs from the greater, and there will
remain - - - - - o 26
Then feek the logarithm of twenty-fix minutes in the firft column on
the head of the table, and the logarithm of thirty-fix in the fame manner,
which are the minutes belonging to Jupiter, and the logarithm to each
will be found as follows - - - 3632
Ditto - - - - - 2218
Thefe are to be added together - - 5850
The number fought for in the logarithms, and will be found to give fif­
teen minutes fixteen feconds, which muft be added to the oblique afeen­
fion of feven degrees of Pifces, viz. - 351 30 o
Part proportional belonging to thirty-fix min. is o 15 36
Added together gives the true oblique afeenfion of
Jupiter in feven degrees thirty-fix minutes of
Pifces - - - - 352 5 36
E X A M P L E IV.
To find the time of the conjunction or afpeCt of any of the Planets,
take firft the diurnal motion, and places of the planets on the day the af-
* In all proportional dem ands, if the firft term be tw enty-four or fixty, you are to add the tw o
given num bers j b u t, if it (hould be the fecond term , then you are to fubtraA ,
peCt
Original from
h i r u f v n D ^ n i i D i 1r 1 1d d a d v
Digitized by Google
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 6 i 5
pe<ft will happen, and, if the planets are both direCt or both retrograde,
let the lefs diurnal motion be lubtraCtcd from the greater j but, if one be
direCt and the other retrograde, add their diurnal motions together, and
the aggregate is the diurnal excefs. Then take the places of the planets
from the Ephemeris on the day preceding the afpeCt, and fubtraCt the
place of the planet that is fwifteftin motion from the place of that which
is flower, and the remainder is the diftance in longitude; this had, the time
thereof will be obtained by the following analogy ; as the diurnal excefs
is to twenty-four hours, fo is the planets to the time of the afpeCt.
A P R A X I S .
To find the quartile of the Moon, and Saturn on the twelfth of June,
1784. Proceed thus: Refer to page 179 of this work, and on the twelfth
day at noon the Moon will be found in nineteen degrees feventeen mi­
nutes of Aries, and Saturn in twenty-two degrees fifty minutes of Cap­
ricorn, retrograde. The diurnal motion of the Moon is thirteen degrees
three minutes, and the motion of Saturn three minutes. Now, as Saturn
is retrograde, his motion is to be added to the Moon’s, and then the di­
urnal excefs makes thirteen degrees twenty-one minutes, with which
enter the table of logarithms ; in the top column feek thirteen degrees,
and in the firft column on the left hand fide feek twenty-one minutes, and
in the angle of meeting will be found - - 6527
In the fame manner feek the logarithm to the difference
of longitude, viz. three degrees three minutes, which
will be - 12279
Subtract the lefs from the greater, and the re­
mainder is 5752
W ith which number enter the logarithms, and on calling the eye up­
wards will be found in the third column from the top fix hours, and in
the fecond column on the left hand will be found twenty-two minutes
twenty-four feconds. Thus, it is evident, the Moon came to the fextile
of Saturn on the twelfth day, at fix hours twenty-two minutes and twen­
ty-four feconds, P. M. or afternoon; and in the fame manner may be
found the conjunction of any other planet, or afpeCt.
RULES to be obferved in direfting a NA TIVITY.
In order to find the arch of the equator that is interfe&ed between
the fignificator and promittor, which is commonly called the arch of di­
rection, it is necelfary to obferve.
No. 31. 7 M I. Whe-
Original from
K\E\hl vn UY Dl I P I I r I I R D A D V
A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
I. Whether the fignificator be on the cufp of thefirftor feventh houfe;
and, if fo, fubtradi: the oblique afcenllon or defcenfion of the fignifica-
tor, with latitude, if any, from the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion of
the promittor under the pole of the houfej and the remainder is the arch
of direction, which is to be turned into years by the table.
II. If a fignificator be in the tenth or fourth houfes, fubtrafr the right
afcenfion of the fignificator, with latitude, if any, from the right afcen­
fion of the promittor, and the remainder will be the arch of direction,
which is to be turned into years by the table.
III. If a fignificator be not pofited in the afcendant or mid-heaven, or
in the oppofite houfes, then find the pole of pofition of the fignificator,
and, according whether it be in an oriental or occidental part of the hea­
vens, take the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion of the promittor, under
the fame pole, and the remainder is.the arch of direction fought, which
turn into years as before.
IV. If it be required to diredl the promittor to the fignificator, con­
trary to the fucceffion of* figns, then, inftead of fubtrafting the oblique
or right afcenfion of the fignificator from the promittor, l'ubtratl the ob­
lique or right afcenfion of the promittor from the fignificator, and the
remainder is the arch of diredtion.
V. If the promittor is to be directed contrary to the fuccefiion of figns,
and is fituated in the mid-heaven or fourth houfe, fubtradl the right af-
ccnfion of the promittor, with latitude, from the right afcenfion of the
fignificator, and the remainder is the arch of dire&ion, to be turned in­
to years, &c. by the table.
VI. If a promittor be oriental or occidental above the earth or under
it, yet not in the mid-heaven or fourth houfe, feek its pole of pofition,
and thereby gain its true oblique afcenfion or defcenfion with latitude,
and fubtradl it from the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion cf the fignifica­
tor under the fame pole, and the remainder is the arch of dire&ion re-
VII. When any planet is to be diredled to the oppofite part of the
heavens, it muff. then be directed with oppofite latitude.
VIII. No planet, except the Sun and Moon, can be diredled to either
.a fextile, trine, or quartile, of its radical place.
* T h e S un and M oon, and V enus and M ercury, can only be dire& ed converfely, that is, con­
trary to the fucceffion of figns, they being the only planets capable of the rapt m otion.
IX. The
Original from
MGA l m ID I \T I I D B A D V
Digitized by Google
u»
uiiidin,
u
u
u
y
i
e
-
u
i
y
i
u
z
e
u
/
i
i
ll
|
j
.
/
/
vvvvvv
.
i
i
o
l
i
i
i
u
u
^
l
.
u
i
y
/
d
t
.
t
.
e
b
b
_
u
b
t
:
-
«
-
p
u
-
y
u
u
y
i
g
O F A S T R O L O G Y . 6 1 7
IX. The Sun moves in the zodiac only, and meets all bodies or afpedts
therein, it being his unalterable courfe, that is, without latitude; but,
when he is directed to a planet or zodiacal parallel with latitude, it is
then called a direction in mundo; but, when diredted to a planet without
latitude, it is termed a zodiacal direction, and is either diredt or converfe,
as the motion of the planet is either with, or contrary to, the fucceifion
of figns.
X. The Moon mee»s all rays in the circle of latitude in which Ihe
conftantly moves, and that is always out of the ecliptic, except when
the is in her nodes j and therefore, when fhe is diredted, as a fignificator
with latitude, to a promittor in the zodiac, the latitude of the Moon’s
place mud be found. Under this latitude, the declination mud be fought,
which (hews the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion under the pole of the
M oon; and hence the arch of diredlion is corredlly found, by fubtradl-
ing the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion of the Moon under her pole, not
forgetting that this oblique afcenfion or defcenfion mud be taken ac­
cording to the latitude of her place at the hour of birth. This is called
a zodiacal diredlion with latitude; but, when tlie Moon is diredted to an
afpedt without latitude, the place of the zodiac where the afpedt falls
is to be taken without latitude, both in right afcenfion and declination;
and thus find the oblique defcenfion or afcenfion of the point under the
pole of the Moon; from which fubtradl the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion
of the Moon, taken according to the latitude file had at the time of birth,
and the arch of diredlion is found, which is to be converted into years as
before.
XI. Diredlions are of two forts, zodiacal and mundane. The Sun and
Moon arc capable of being diredted both ways; but the angles of a figure
can only be diredled in mundo, they being fubjedt to the accidents and
divifion of no circles, but thofe which conftitute the meafure of each
quadrant, and are meafured by the parts of the diurnal and feminocturnal
arches; therefore they never meet any rays with latitude but bodies and
oppofitions.
XII. The mid-heaven and afcendant are two different * circles. The
mid-heaven meets all rays, and meafures all afpedts by the zodiac; but the
afcendant, by the rapt motion or horary circle; by which motion the di­
urnal circle is alfo meafured, the houfes of heaven divided, and the mun­
dane afpedts proportiOnably meafured.
* T h e zodiacal circle m eafures thirty-fix m inutes to an hour, but the rapt m otion, or horary cir­
cle, is fom euines m ore or lels, according to the length of the fem idiurnal arch or planetary hour.
2 The
Original from
M H A / V O D / Dl I P I I r I I P D A D V
Digitized by Got.>ale
6i8 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The knowledge of equating the planet’s places for different meridians be­
ing abfolutely neceffarj for calculating the nativities of rhofe perions who
were born under the meridian of London, for which latitude the Ephe-
merifes are generally calculated; I fhall now teach how to calculate ei­
ther the mundane or zodiacal directions for any other latitude, and how
a planet in one meridian may be reduced to that of another, with the ut-
moft degeee of corredtnefs and precifxon.
For example, fuppofeit were required to know the difference between
the meridians of London and Briftol; refer to page 179 of this work, and
on the t i t h o f June, at twelve o’clock at noon, the Moon is in five
degrees forty-fix minutes of Aries, under the meridian of London ;
but, to reduce it to the meridian of Briftol, purfue the following method.
See by the table, page 208, the longitude of London, and it will be
found - - - - - - 23 26
Subtract the longitude of Briftol, which is - M9 41
And there remains - - - - 3 45
W ith this difference, three degrees forty-five minutes, look into the table
for turning the degrees of the equator into time, in page 206; then refer
to table the fecond, by which it will be found, that one degree gives four
minutes ; and confequently, three degrees forty-five minutes, the dif­
ference of the two longitudes, muft give fifteen minutes difference of
time in two meridians; and, as Briftol is fituate weft from London, the
Moon muft be in five degrees forty-fix minutes of Aries, fifteen minutes
before noon at Briftol, and at noon, viz. at twelve o’clock according to
her own motion in an hour, gives for that time, going at the rate of
thirty-three minutes forty-feven feconds the quarter of an hour, eight
minutes twenty-feven fcconds, which, being added to five degrees forty-
fix minutes, make five degrees fifty-four minutes and twenty-feven le-
conds of the Moon in Aries, at twelve o’clock at Briftol. And here note,
that, if the place were fituate eaft from London, then the difference of time
muft have been fubtraCted from the meridian of London, which would
in the fame manner have fhewn the difference of the meridians.
END of the FIRST VOLUME.
Original from
MClAf v n D V m IPI Ir I I D D A D V
Digitized by G
ot*ale
»9 A s t r o l o g y . — S ib le y 's (E ) C o m p le te Illu s tra tio n of th e
A stro lo g ic a l a n d O c c u lt S c ie n c e s; c o m p re h e n d in g th e
a r t o f fo re te llin g fu tu re e v e n ts b y th e H e a v e n ly b o d ie s.
W ith numerous curious copper-plates, an d N a tiv itie s an d
in c a n ta tio n s ; p o r tr a it. 2 v o ls. 4 to ,'h a lf calf. Scarce.
'V:,-V
V
N
.
Digitized by Got gle Original from
m e m / v n b ^ 01 id 1 1r i* T d d * a d v
