{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__comstock___tongue_of_time.pdf","mytitle":"Tongue Of Time","mylang":"de"}
THE
TONGUE OF TIME,
5v
STAR OF THE STATES:
A SYSTEM OF HUMAN NATURE, WITH THE PHENOMENA OF THE
HEAVENS AND EARTH.
AMERICAN ANTIQUITIES,
REMAINS OF GIANTS,
GEOLOGY,
VOLCANOES,
EGYPTIAN AND
INDIAN MAGIC,
DIET,
DRESS,
DRINKS,
DISEASES,
SLEEP,
SOMNAMBULISM,
TRANCES,
RESUSCITATION.
AN ACCOUNT OF PERSONS WITH TWO SOULS, AND OF FIVE PERSONS
WHO TOLD COLORS BY THE TOUCH.
BY JOSEPH COMSTOCK, M. D,
n
NEW YORK:
1838.
JOFCONGRSSSI
[WASHINGTON
6
6
«
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1838, by
JOSEPH COMSTOCK, M. D.
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Connecticut.
en
^ CONTENTS
CHAPTER I.
Preliminary Address, to all people who read, reflect, and reason. Varieties of
style. Chaucer. Cicero. Biography. Milton. Addison. Celebrated
Women. The Chinese. National Characters. Literature. Languages.
Use of evil. The Crusades. The Holy Land. The refutation of atheism.
Page 9—76.
CHAPTER n.
Man, Matter, and Mind. Prolongation of Life. Fossils. Remains of Giants.
Volcanoes, and submarine Volcanoes. Geology. Niagara Falls. Theories
of the World. Falling stones. Showers of stars. Formation of solids in
the air. Stumps of trees ninety feet below the surface. Rafts. Coal beds.
Mounds. Skeletons. The Deluge. American Antiquities.
Page77—12L
CHAPTER HI.
Ancient Mounds and Fortifications. Remains of work shops, Walls, Pyra-
mids. Palaces, and Cities. The Flood. Mr. Evans. Gov. Pownal. The
Potatoe. Tobacco. Creation. Page 122—189.
CHAPTER IV.
Superstition. Idolatry. Witchcraft. Dreams. Egyptian and Indian Magic.
Somnambulism. Judicial Astrology. Phrenology. Animal Magnetism.
Death of JuUus Caesar. Salem Witchcraft. Cases of Nancy Hazard, Jane
C. Rider, Mrs. Cass, and Miss M'Evoy, who told colors by the touch. See-
ing with the fingers. Hearing with the eyes. Optics. Sir Isaac Newton.
Dr. Newton, Mr. Locke. Page 190—261.
CHAPTER V.
Of burying, embalming, and burning the dead. Of visions, voices, and im-
pressions. Cromwell. Lord Herbert. Pausanias. Anaxagoras. Ros-
common. A premonition defeated. Prediction of snow in June, fulfilled.
The Indian and his tamed snake. Page 262—276.
CHAPTER VI.
Enthusiasm. Buonaparte's Russian Campaign. French and American
Revolutions. Roger Williams. William Penn. Edmund Burke. Robert
Morris. Page 277-285.
IV CONTENTS.
CHAPTER VII.
Of Sleep. Dreams. Sleep watching, sleep working, and sleep talking.
Hippocrates. Question of the legality of telling certain dreams. Remark-
able cases. Opium and the Poppy. Page 286—301.
CHAPTER VIII.
Universality of deception. Fascination of serpents. Inquiry after universal
opinions, and the common lot of mankind. Bishop Heber. The Veddahs.
Mr. Marsden. Locke. Reid. Stuart. Brown. The Craniology of Gall.
The Quaker. Evil Spirits. Socrates. Plato. Page 302—317.
CHAPTER IX.
Life. Health. Death. The Soul. Sudden death of a Beauty.
Page 318—326.
CHAPTER X.
Theology. Ethics. Diet. Dress. Drinks and Diseases. Alcohol. Exer-
cise. Famine. Priestley. Johnson. Josephus. Bishop Beveridge,
Trances. Resuscitation. Heat and Cold. Page 327—368.
CHAPTER XL
Of the Senses, passions of the mind, memory, judgment, association. The
Will. Mr. Alexander Alexander, and Point no Point. Page 369—382.
CHAPTER Xn.
Something of Politics. Vattel. Patrick Henry. John Randolph. Volcanic
Waters. Thorlakson. Comets. Stimulus of Necessity, Uses of the
Spleen. Page 383—410.
CHAPTER XIIL
Some further notice of the sleeping preacher. Different opinions of her
sleeping and waking soul. Herod the Great. The Gymnosophists. Case
of William Blatchford, Jr. Women bearing children at sixty years of age.
Page 411—457.
CHAPTER XIV.
History and anecdotes of women. Of the best method of females managing
property, and preserving their estates. Of prayer. Deceit. Singular
case. Hortense on optics. Conclusion. Page 458—483.
REFERENCES
We would refer gentlemen of all professions—the presidents, professors,
and members of the several colleges, ministers of all denominations, and
people of every religious sect, to the following pages. And indeed all, who
would enlarge the bounds of knowledge, respecting their own country, and its
phenomena, and of Human Nature itself, and its system, are included in this
reference.
Whether in the shape of praise or blame, extension, contraction, or alteration,
every thing is desired which will tend to improve the subjects upon which the
present writer has touched, and they are many.
In most things our country is still an infant Hercules, which time, and taste,
and talents, is fast ripening into manhood.
Most of our chapters contain sp much of variety, as cannot fail to interest
the professional reader, the general reader, the matron, and the miss.
But to his fair readers the writer would more particularly refer :—
Ladies have minds of philosophic cast.
Which thrill at rainbows, Rome and ruins vast
;
Which comets scan, and northern lights survey,
Nor fiery clouds, nor trembling earth dismay.
Pleased with the western realms, once claimed by waves,
With Alleghany's heights, Kentucky's caves,—
With the Atlantic shores, and sounding seas,
And mighty rushing winds, that bend the trees,
—
Missouri's grapes, the sweetest of all kinds.
Dressed with the sand, pruned by the desert winds,—
The lily of the lake,—the lily's queen,
—
The falling flood—Niagara, is seen.
The water rainbow cloudy their eye delights.
As the vast lakes pour o'er the mountain heights.
Around the Isle, the hasty rapids move,
Pushed on by Erie, and the lakes above ;
The rolling, rushing, restless torrent pours,
Between the King's and freedom's firmer shores ;
And hastens on with deep and dashing flow.
To find the broad, the grand, Ontario.
VI REFERENCES.
Yet ere it ends and ocean-rest enjoys,
It flows anew, and forms the Iroquois.
River of thunder ! with thy thousand isles,
Where cascades leap, and where the vortex boils ;
Poets must soar sublime, thy scenes to sing,
Yet still the Mississippi is thy king ;
—
Great rolling remnant of the ancient sea.
The world affords no parallel to thee.
Such scenes will elevate the soul sublime.
And open vistas to remotest time
;
Scenes that will transport female hearts on high,
And brighten views that reach beyond the sky.
Star of t^ States, display thy native land,
Bid taste, imagination, truth, expand, ^
And pay a tribute worth a lady's hand.
"'Twas Solomon, of cedar trees who spake.
The lofty tree, more lofty could he make ;
But lofty subjects were not his alone,
The humble hyssop's heard of from his throne.*
The female mind must high and broad expand,
To rear a race to fit this lofty land
;
Sons from their mothers, most their talents take,
Mothers the first and last impressions make.
He who would raise his country's glories high,
Must on the fair with fervent faith rely.
The Spartan matrons taught the world the truth,
That martial spirits must be formed in youth ;
Hence, when their sons marched for the tented field,
" Bring back, or be brought back, upon your shield"
—
Was ihe farewell, the soul, nerve-steeling speech.
Which last of all their ears was wont to reach.
Our country owed to her our Washington I
—
Who bore and bred and marshalled such a son.
Statesmen and soldiers on the sex depend
—
Ah! mother, sister, lover, female friend!!
Whoever lays aside our volume without attentively perusing our tenth
chapter, will deprive himself of much utility and entertainment.* We make
this remark from our knowledge that some who buy books do not read them,
and designate that chapter, as containing much, as we think, that will interest
the general reader, and lead him to look further into the present volume.
Perhaps, however, there are others who may find other chapters more interest-
ing to them.
* " And he discoursed of trees, from the cedar of Lebanon, to the hyssop
shat grows out of the wall."
REFERENCES. VU
The religious inquirer, who would renew and revive his ideas, and who
would find new food for pious aspirations, who would be a partaker of purity
in doctrine, and piety in dispensation, and who would behold temples glitter
with glory, coronets and crowns studded with diamonds, and all sweetly
reclining upon religion, are referred to extracts in this work, from those who
had adorned the summit, the spire, the pinnacle of their profession. We
would, in this connection, mention Bishop Beveridge ; and in our thirteenth
chapter, what is said of the sleeping preacher. Miss Baker.
THE TONGUE OF TIME.
CHAPTER I.
PRELIMINARY ADDRESS, TO ALL WHO READ, REFLECT, AND REASON.
VARIETIES OF STYLE. CHAUCER, CICERO. BIOGRAPHY. MILTON.
ADDISON. CELEBRATED WOMEN. THE CHINESE. NATIONAL
CHARACTERS. LITERATURE, LANGUAGES. USES OF EVIL.
No book was ever written by any one man exactly so as to
please anotber, much more, all others.
Dr. Goldsmith said, that the best way to please the whole
world, was to try to please only one half of it. What is written
in beauty, must be felt in a song.
Those writers have done most good by their writings, who have
combined the pleasurable with the profitable,—who have exhibited
the honey and the rose, and who have left the sting and the thorn
to exhibit themselves.
But the empire of veracity never ought to be invaded ; when
trath can be discovered, it must always be portrayed, and the
extensive domain of deception, left to shift for itself.
A spot which would be invisible upon the sail of a ship, would
be apparent on a lady's frock. Every writer should dress himself
in white satin, that if there be soils, he may discover them first
himself.
The delusions of duplicity, should have no place, and if the
fairy flights of fancy, must be ever introduced, they should be
well digested.
We have heard, from philosophers, of a certain kind of light-
ning, which melted the sword, but singed not the scabbard,
2
10 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
A discriminating sort of heavenly fire, which should teach us
to seize the strong point of every case, and to hold on to it with
never ceasing effort and exertion, and never remit our embrace,
till death enfeebles our grasp.
In the cases of the five ladies, w^ho told colors by the touch,
and some of whom appeared to have double minds, or souls, our
testimony is of such a kind as to set incredulity at defiance.*
We had not admitted them unless they had been based upon
indubitable testimony. Nor not at all, except with a view of
throwing around them a halo of such philosophical and physiolo-
gical light, as our present knowledge, feeble as it is, affords.
The same obseiTations apply to the Salem witchcraft, to Indian
sorcery, Egyptian magic, and the tricks of mountebanks and
jugglers.
We have inquired with much care, into the geological part of
our subject, as also into what is known of the phenomena of the
heavens, and the antiquities of the earth.
We were led more particularly to the latter subject, by seeing
the publication of a most extraordinary opinion, that the mounds
and fortifications of America were natural productions ! And
this, not by any common writer, but by a professed geologist, and
a professor also in one of our colleges.
We never knew an opinion of greater absurdity ever promulga-
ted, nor one at which we were more utterly astonished. We
have in consequence, been at much pains to collect, and to con-
centrate, such evidence upon the subject as we could obtain, both
as relates to the western states and to Mexico.
Every person of the least pretensions to knowledge, to geogra-
phy, geology, travels, or history, ought to know something of
these New-World-wonders, so as not to send abroad opinions
disgraceful to the very name of an American.
These structures of the ancient unrecorded ages of America,
are no where in the known world to be matched, except in Egypt
alone.
We have said something upon a variety of subjects, in a short
space, and of course have not talked, when we had nothing to say.
* In order to steer clear of the doctrine of Materialism, it is requisite to adopt
the opinion of double souls, minds, or spirits.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 11
Those writers are fatiguing in the extreme who attempt to say
every thing that can possibly be said upon a subject—who write
as if tliey thought that their readers knew nothing, and that
tliey themselves knew every thing. Our citizens are too well
informed to need prolixity, or to be pleased with monotony of
this kind.
There is another class of writers, who will pretend that they
have something to tell of the most paramount, magnificent, and
vital importance, and begin with a long, every day, tedious detail
about winds, weather, sunshine, clouds, time of day, or time of
year, and what, and where their hero ate and drank ; things
that have been told over and repeated more than five hundred
thousand times.
The world has too many things to be seen, and too many good
writers in it to be read, and too many good speakers in it to be
heard, to listen to repetitions and non-essentials.
We have heard to our full satisfaction, that the sun rose in all
its glory, or that it rose in silver and sat in gold—that the air was
bland, balsamic and delicious, the morning beautiful, the sky
serene, and the dew-drops diamonds—that there were singing
ciioirs, flitting from tree to tree, and grove to grove, cooing doves,
and nightingales mellifluous—that the earth had a green carpet
of grass, or a white coverlet of snow, or a painted cushion of
violets—that there were little rills, singing and dancing over
pebbles of crystal, or large rivers pouring thunder over the
rocks—that there was a calm lake, which painted the stars in its
placid bosom, and laid down the blue spangled sky, as a carpet
in its waters. All,well enough to be sure, if toldjjut once, and
stale enough if eternally repeated.
And then we have other condiment dishes, into which every
one dips his spoon ; such as Alexander's weeping for another
world to conquer ; of places dark as Erebus, or frowning as a
mountain thunder cloud ; of the soft tinge of tender melancholy
;
of tears like stars, glittering in the eye ; of tears like rain, falling
to the earth ; and of tears like rills, furrowing the cheek.
Of the sea, we hear of its colors of black, of blue, of green, of
purple, and of white ; of its chafing with its sandy strand, or
throwing its bellowing billows upon the wavy shore, or of its
12 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
mounting up in mountain heights ; and of its lying untroubled in
placid repose.
So we have flowery fields, beaming beauties, lovely ladies,
charming creatures,
And waves that wind their watery way,
And blustering blasts that blow,
And locks that lovely, loosely lay,
And well wrought words of woe,
not for poetic purpose, nor for the necessity of the narrative, but
for the display of the author's alertness at alliteration.
How does it add to the interest of an incident, for the writer to
tell that it was a dark cold night, with chill damp winds, which
blew the rain against the windows, when he had to go only a few
steps, in a lighted city 1
Dean Swift said of the British ministers, that he used them
like dogs, because he expected that they would use him so.
This dogged kind of treatment seems to be adopted by many
authors, and reciprocated by their readers.
§ 2. With our respect for great men, we are often obliged to
mingle our regret for their errors. This regret is, however, some-
times misapplied. Lord Brougham has been censured for hold-
ing the opinion, that belief is independent of the will. But in
this respect, his lordship agrees with other great philosophers,
and his censurers must prove him in an error, or prove themselves
greater philosophers, an^ more correct judges than he is, in order
for their opinions to have much weight. But they have done
neither.
Some great men are only great on great occasions, but it is
dangerous for a great man not to be great on small occasions
;
for those who take hold of embroidery, do not expect to find it
ever to end in a web ; and if ever a great ox dwindles down to a
frog, all frogs will think themselves great oxen.
A philosophy which hides its head in the clouds, is as useless
as the ignorance which buries its face in a mole-hill ; and little
better than either, are those writers who deal in skipping, short-
winded, asthmatic, unpolished truisms, impossible to be applied
or remembered.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 13
There are others prone to dole out matters of small conse-
quence, in a strutting style, to blow up great bubbles filled with
air, which burst and leave nothing behind but a drop of impure
water.
There is another kind of style, which is smart and snappish,
the writers of which, find out that the world and every thing in it
has gone amiss from Adam, till it was so lucky at last, as to find
them with pens in their hands. Such writers make every thing as
lucid as a cake of ice, but at the same time as frigid, hard and
repulsive. They cannot be brought within the pale of General
Washington's remark, that " good humor makes one dish of
MEAT A feast."
Our free constitution permits Christians to do all the good they
can, and infidels all the evil they can, provided neither commit a
breach of the peace. It hence becomes all-important, that the
young should be educated and moralized, and that no poison be
cast into the springs from which they drink, and from which the
mighty rivers of freedom are to flow. Still, with education we
always connect reproof, admonition, and rigid rules of discipline.
But we are convinced that these are often, very often, carried too
far ; for the judgment can only gain a manly and adequate
strength, by its being sufi*ered to undergo much exercise of itself.
It is from this very circumstance that the constellation of the
northern bear is so often, in Congress, eclipsed by the stars of
the south.
Education, without good judgment, never made a Cicero.
Great learning, and even great wisdom, may sometimes be found
in an individual, with very little judgment. We suspect that even
Cato was deficient in the latter, from his having been impeached
by his countrymen, no less than fifty times, and the last time, at
.the age of eighty-six.
Such men as Herod, Alexander the Great, and Napoleon, who
acted upon the thunder and lightning principle, achieved every
thing by fear and force, and cannot be subjected to the rules of
other mortals. Cowper thought that there was somewhere in
infinite space, a world that did not roll within the precincts of
mercy. Those men appear to have belonged to that world.
2*
14 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Some writers, and some preachers, have been thought very
great, because their readers and hearers could not understand
them. Aristotle is supposed to have written with affected ob-
scurity. Hence the world sought after him with respect and
reverence, for an explanation ; eveiy one thinking that he should
liimself become wise, if he could but comprehend Aristotle. But
it is impossible to understand that which has no meaning. The
air of mystery, ^vith an occasional clear, terse, and pithy axiom,
however, ever made him venerable.
It is thought that if Homer could be so translated as to give the
true and elegant simplicity of his meaning, that he would be as
entertaining even to children, as is Robinson Crusoe, because he
wrote according to the uncontaminated principles of nature.
Homer was no metaphysical writer. These write, in order to
reconcile contradictions, and as they cannot do this, they so in-
volve their sentences as not to have their failures very apparent,
as they have no meaning at all.
We have some modern writers, with whom every thing is deli-
cate and delightful, and if honey never cloyed, their style would
never tire. But as Plutarch observes, that every kind of wicked-
ness produces its own particular torment, so we may s:ay, that
every kind of sweet, brings with it its own satiety. Gold may,
however, be often told over without soiling the fingers, and we
can hardly conceive of the period when the style of Johnson,
Addison, Mr. Jefferson, and Washington Irving, will not be held
in esteem.
§ 3. The Mahometans, call a tavern-haunter, a worshipper' of
fire—and to such, the language of Sir William Jones, well ap-
plies, viz. that he resembles a coal, which when hot burneth the
hand, and when cold blacketh it.
§ 4. Every one who visits a libraiy, may well be surprised, if
he pleases to turn over many thick and ponderous volumes, which
are written upon subjects unattainable, or which if attained, would
not be applicable to any useful purpose. Yet a library, as Dr.
Johnson observes, is a melancholy place, when the number of
writers, with their bright anticipations of fame, and their subse-
quent blasted prospects, is considered. P\)r who ever wrote a
THE TONGUE OF TIME, 15
book, which its author did not entertain a more exalted opinion
of, than its readers and the pubhc 1
It is not always the most elegant writer that leaves the deepest-
impression on his reader. We sometimes find bad grammaro.
obsolete terms, and ancient authors, making^ deep, or pleasant, or
striking indentations on the mind. Thus Chaucer says,
For libertie is thing that women looke^
And truly els the matter is acrooke.*
The English language has varied so much in less than 700
years, that to understand Robert Glocester, who wrote in the
reign of Henry II., we require the glossary of a dead language.
Wiclif, who translated the Bible, about 200 years later, is more
intelligible, but still very obscure. He probably wrote in all the
elegance of his day, as he was professor of Divinity at Oxford,
His translation of a verse or two of the Bible, follows, being the
most intelligible of any that we could select.
" Men schulen louynge hemsillf coucitouse ; high o berynge,
proude, blasfemeris ; not obedient to fadir and modir, unkynde
cursid, withouten affecciouny (2 Tim. iii. 2.)
" x4.nd anon the damysel roos and walkide, and she was of
twelve year, and thei weren abayschid with a great stoneying."
(Mark v. 42.)t
§ 5. To study human nature in all its phases, is a curious
and not a useless study. There are some persons who are ex-
tremely careful of their health, who are yet ever ready to risque
their lives in duels, or any romantic or dangerous enterprise.
And there is another class, consisting of the lower order of
people, who are recklessly careless of their health, and yet the
most fearful of death of any mortals in the known world.
Individuals of each class, will sometimes strike the beholder
dumb, not with admiration, but with unaccountable surprise.
There are some prosing, jury-confounding arguers, who travel
all sorts of courses excepting straight ones, and who can throw a
* Richardson's Dictionary, Art. Acrook.
t Richardson's Dictionary, Art. Affectiok.
16 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
shade of darkness upon all subjects, and never a ray of light upon
a single one.
AYlio ever saw, without a thrilling emotion of sympathy, a
beautiful woman, suddenly thrown into deep, painful, and un-
feigned distress 1 Such an exhibition, beheld unmoved, would
denote an inhabitant of that world which rolls without the pre-
cincts of mercy. And yet you will find a jury-confounding-limb
of the law, arrayed against her. But judges will see that justice
is done, and let it be done, though the heavens be dissolved. It
is a happy trait in human nature, that it leans towards tlie feeble
and frail, and that conscience sustains the bearing. For Cicero
said, that he did not consider that man the most virtuous who
committed no faults, but him whose conscience accused him with
the fewest.
The judge on the bench, often suffers more from the load of
responsibility upon his feelings, than the criminal at the bar, from
the load of guilt upon his conscience.
What a difference in the physiognomy of the judge and the
soldier ! The face of the former, who is only about to send a
convict to prison, is longer than that of the latter, who is about to
be killed himself.
Were we to see nobody but officers of the. army and navy, we
should at once conclude that this world was made up of roses and
honey-sucldes, and nightingales, and humming birds—of suns by
day, and stars by night, and milk and honey every where—and
that mountains of dead bodies, and seas of blood, and bleached
bones, and clotted gore, had never any place in it.
The face of the dead who die suddenly, or by violence, is less
changed than that of those who lingeflife away, by slow decline.
It is those dead of consumption, who have lost all looks of life in
some instances, not in all. But the careless head which was
bound around with laurels, and the brave heart, which was
ready to shed its blood for its country, bear the physiognomy of
death, if the body falls, without a murmuring look, or frowning
brow.
The pen of the poet, and the pencil of the painter, brothers in
allegory, have done the most justice to the minds and bodies of
the human race. They have exhibited pictures to the life, and to
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 17
the death, and both are required for a full portrait of human
nature.
Of all truths, theological truths are of the most consummate
importance ; and the common sense, and the common people,
who always finally decide right, of all nations, have, in this case,
so decided. The reason is, that such truths have an intimate
relation with both life and death—with here and hereafter—with
time and eternity.
§ 6. Biographers, who write of the living, dare not tell what
they know, and those who write of the dead, find many para-
mount facts unknown or forgotten, so that no man's life was ever
fully written. What one man has been doing, during his whole
life, it would take another man his whole life to find out and
to tell.
Dr. Johnson wrote the life of Milton, with much care and at-
tention. Yet he was unapprized of one of the most extraordina-
ry events of his, or of almost any other man's life.
Milton, who had been Cromwell's Latin Secretary, was con-
sidered as rebelling, in that and many other respects, against the
legitimate monarch. Yet to the surprise of Dr. Johnson, he went
unpunished.
The fact was, that when others were being an-ested and tried
for their treasonable practices, Milton pretended to be dead, and
actually had a funeral procession in public.
The facetious and merciful monarch, Charles II., did not dis-
approve of his escaping death " by a seasonable show of dying,"
and still suff*ered him to enjoy his liberty and life.*
It is not improbable, however, that Charles might have approved
of some of Milton's religious writings, or have viewed them more
favorably, than he did those in which he contended for the liber-
ties of the people. For it is a fact, that those who have no reli-
gion themselves, sometimes hold in the highest estimation those
who have. Whilst those who have, and those who take the most
* The reader can consult Cunningham's History of Great Britain, Vol. I.,
for more particulars of this affair. Milton's hiding place was Bartholomew
t!lose, near Smithfield.
1§ THE TONGUE OF TIME.
unbounded liberties, disapprove of any one else enjoying or taking
any at all.
One of Milton's political works, was, however, seized and or-
dered to be burnt, by the common hangman.
It would be perhaps, difficult to find two great writers more
unlike, than were Milton and Addison. For whilst the latter was
ridiculed, for his endless mention of thefair sex, in the Spectator,
and was himself one of the most inoff'ensive men in the world,
with respect to the government under which he lived. Milton, in
the language of Dr. Johnson, thought man only created to rebel,
and woman to obey. In fact, Milton's treatment of women, puts
us in mind of what old Chaucer says, that " they weren wont
lightly to slaken her hunger at euin with akehornes of okes."
The writings of Milton and Addison are as different as were their
notions concerning women. The former, we never read except
as a duty, or a study ; we speak more particularly of his Paradise
Lost, which is a work of fiction, founded on the Bible. Now, in
every work of fiction, delight is constantly given to the fancy, by
the plausible face of the narrative ; and by our being persuaded,
as we float along the placid stream, that we are on the real cur-
rent of life, or that we shall find, at the end of our voyage,
stranger things than real life ever made us familiar with.
But a work of fiction, founded on the Bible, we know must be
false, if it disagrees with its source. And when never so true, it
cannot be truer than the Bible, and hence unnecessary.
The writings of Addison are pure, elegant, lively, and never
deviate from the purest morality.
Time obliterates hypothesis, but confirms nature. There is
nothing of nature in the personification of Sin and Death, by
Milton, nor in his making Satan enter into a toad, and hiding in
the reptile, his spear and shield. Besides, blank verse, in which
he writes, is poetry only to the eye, and a kind of harsh prose to
the ear. To the understanding, it is a block of stumbling, and
a rock of offence. There is no exception, no not a single one,
except one, and that is Shakspeare.
Time, common opinion, and popularity, have confirmed this
decision—as they have Addison's Spectator, in public favor, al-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 19
though it SO often mentions the fair sex, as to have drawn upon
it the ridicule of Swift.
Still, we think that the different numbers of the Spectator have
pretty well exhausted the subject, and that the frequent articles in
our present periodicals, headed woman, are legitimate subjects of
ridicule. Not because they may not be well written, but because
the subject is thread bare.
§ 7. The conclusion of one of Lord Byron's letters to Dr.
Drury, will find a response by many, as a truth spoken in jest.
It is as follows :
—" Remember me to yourself, when drunk : I
am not worth a sober thought." Yet Byron's poetry had more
of mind, more of exquisite and elevated description, more of
imagination, and poetic imagery, and tenderness of feeling, than
that of any one of his giant contemporaries. Sir Walter Scott not
excepted.
And it is still doubtful whether he ever intended to throw the
gauntlet at Christians and Christianity, considering his extreme
sensibility ; for he confessed, in the plenitude of his fame, that
" the depreciation of the lowest of mankind was more painful to
him, than the applause of the highest was pleasing."
His strength was Herculean ; but its government, use, and
application, were like Napoleon's, not always directed to the right
end.
The arguments of the one, and the arms of the other, were
like bomb-shells, which they were determined should burst their
glare of light on the world, let the destruction which they scatter-
ed round, be what it might.
It could not be said of Byron and Buonaparte, what the latter
said of Voltaire, that " he was considered the great man of the
age, because all around him were pigmies." Their era abounded
with diamond geniuses, male and female, of the very first water.
Among the latter. Miss Hannah Moore, Madame De Stael, and
Miss Edgeworth, were such a trio as this world never upheld, at
the same time, since it had historians to write its history. The
appearance on the globe, of such a feminine genius as either of
them, once in a thousand years, would ever have been considered
as sufficient to mark the era.
20 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
We suspect that if Napoleon had competitors of antiquity,
that could compare with him in arms, that when as a soldier, a
politician, and especially as a shrewd and wise remarker upon
general subjects, he is considered, that the world, in any one man,
never produced his equal, in times ancient or modern, distant or
near at home.
The beacon set up by Madame De Stael, warning us to beware
of such persons as have once proved themselves capable of com-
mitting bad actions, experience daily proves to us all, the vast
utility of.
A fourth female of fine endowments, we must not omit to men-
tion, in the person of the empress Josephine. Her words were
like apples of gold in pictures of silver, for they were fitly spoken.
She ranked the qualities of submission, obedience, and compli-
ance, in her sex, as upon a level with political address in men.
A proof of her fine qualities, was, her obtaining such a man as
Buonaparte for a husband. And it is remarkable that his star
did not wane till he left this excellent woman for the daughter of
Austria, Maria Louisa. And to this latter alliance he imputed his
ruin. He remarked of Josephine, that it was foretold of her in
her infancy, that she would wear a crown. That a mind that had
such a load of living things upon it, as Napoleon's, should find
time to read, and taste to admire, the Iliad, is a mark of its vast
powers.
Of this work of Homer, he remarked, that it was like the books
of Moses, the token and pledge of the age in which it was produ-
ced. He observed of Homer also, that in that epic poem, he had
proved himself a poet, an orator, a historian, a legislator, geogra-
pher, and theologist. And he adds, that he might be called the
encyclopedist of the period in which he flourished.
He observed, that one thing particularly struck him ; which
was, the combination of the rudeness of manners, with refinement
of ideas. Heroes were described as killing animals for their
food, cooking their meat with their own hands, and yet delivering
speeches distinguished for regular eloquence, and denoting a
high degree of civilization.
He remarks of his own policy, that it was led on by the spirit
of the age, and the circumstances of the moment.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 21
He denied that the face was an index of the mind. He thought
that popular opinion always decided right, however obscure the
subject, complicated the business, or profound the mystery.*
He said that he did not ascend the throne by pushing another
from it—that he found the crown fallen, that he snatched it up,
and that the nation placed it on his head.
He said that he could appear before the tribunal of God
and await his judgment without fear. This will doubtless be
considered by some, rather as a proof of the Emperor's courage,
than as a mark of his piety.
As a reasoner, Buonaparte was erect in his positions, precise,
and not extravagant in his facts, and never blundering, but gene-
rally very correct in his conclusions. Observation and history had
taught him, that those who had achieved great changes in the
world, had not succeeded by gaining over the chiefs, but by ex-
citing the common people. He carried the key which unlocked
the hearts of the multitude, and this accounts for his unbounded
popularity, as well as for the ardor, energy, and alacrity of his
armies.
But then his hundred victories could only have been obtained
by a very superior degree of skill in the art of war, an intuitive
promptness of discovering facts, and all their bearings and rela-
tions, and a quickness in executing his plans, which even exceed-
ed that of Julius Caesar.
He appears to have been a believer in God, and his providence,
as he observed, that to Him alone it must belong to pronounce
upon what is no longer within the reach of the judgment of men.
The remark in relation to Talleyrand, that he was a man who
could fit himself for any station on the eve of his appointment to
it, was, perhaps, equally applicable to himself.f
Buonaparte's adage was, that it was not for a circumstance to
regulate policy, but rather for policy to govern circumstances.
He refused to receive the communion, because he did not think
he had sufficient faith in it for it to be beneficial to him, but too
much to allow him to be guilty of sacrilege.
* Las Casas' Napoleon.
t We believe that this remark was first made by Talleyrand, in relation to a
certain minister of Buonaparte's.
'3
I
22 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
His views of mankind appear to have been rather favorable.
He did not think men were so ungrateful as was generally sup-
posed. Of women he said, that a handsome woman pleased the
eye, but a good woman pleased the heart.
§ 8. Of national characters, not protestant, we admire that of
the Chinese the most, and that of Spain the least.
We have an extract from a placard, posted up on the walls of
Canton, during a great drought in China, which has reminded us
more of Bishop Butler's opinion, that Christianity is the universal
religion, than any thing which Ave have ever seen, coming from
a pagan country. The extracts are as follows
:
" There is now a great drought, calamities and misfortunes are
heaped up, and it is a time of sorrow and grief. Prayers are of
no avail—all these misfortunes proceed from ourselves. Our
hearts have long been hardened, and we have been discontented
with our lots ; the uneradicated roots of error are many. Evil
dispositions burst out like torrents, overthrowing mountains
;
therefore heaven is annoyed with our repeated supplications. I
offer advice to the men of age. It is necessary they should
examine themselves—and let no one think himself guiltless, and
accuse others. Let all at once excite their hearts, and from their
own feelings, conjecture those of others ; constantly be contented
in your stations.
Cherish with the greatest care filial duty and brotherly love ;
then, the harmony of relations, friends, youth and manhood.
In affairs do not indulge your own temper and wishes ; depend
not on talent and ability ;
presume not on riches, and treat peo-
ple contemptuously, and on high station to insult them. Be not
covetous of ill-gotten wealth. Think not on unlawful pleasures.
Presume not on strength and power. Cherish not revengeful
feelings. In all affairs consult your heart and hold fast by reason.
Constantly correct yourselves, and be indulgent to the thoughts
of others. Certainly then you will be able to repent and renovate
yourselves, and draw back the favorable will of heaven.
Seek and do this, all this, with real sincerity, and it cannot be
but the calamities will be changed into blessings."
Whoever reads the foregoing and does not find many senti-
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 23
ments in agreement with those of the Gospel, will be suspected of
not havnig paid a proper attention to the study of his Bible.
§ 9. The Spaniards were the first to make slaves of the Afri-
cans, They are a nation who wear daggers, and assassination is
a revolting feature in their national character. Besides, they are
cruel, vindictive, and malevolent. If they have religion, it is
without morality.
The barbarous treatment of Cortez, to the poor Indians of
Mexico, was of the most horrid and accursed kind. If private
enormities are visited on the nation to which the individual be-
longs, his barbarities were sufficient to blast the prosperity of the
Spaniards for a thousand years to come.
The national character of the English, is of two kinds—the
legitimate, or royal, and the puritanical. These divisions are
very distinct, and retain their features among those, and the de-
scendants of those, who emigrated long since from the Mother
Isle. Those states in America, which were settled upon puritani-
cal principles, are still different in their manners, customs, habits
and notions, from other states.
The soldiers and officers of Cromwell's army, when they halt-
ed, after their marches, were wont to enter the pulpits of the
churches, and to hold forth in discourses and sermons, to the
people, in the place of clergymen.
This teasing inclination to preach, is evidenced to this day in
the laymen of the puritanical states. Nothing suits them better,
than to get into a meeting house, and to deliver temperance,
abolition, and education addresses—in which, all that they know
about religion, is brought in also. Centennial, independence,
and funeral orations, are all occasionally made to bear the style,
and to introduce the subjects, of sermons.
We knew one of these pseudo-orators, after he had ended,
thanked by the minister in whose pulpit he had been standing,
for his sermon, to his no little chagrin, or at any rate, surprise.
His oration was upon the landing of the pilgrim fathers at
Plymouth, in New England.
It is supposed that all the seeds of no one class of plants that
ever flourished on the surface of the globe, is ever entirely lost.
24 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
They may be covered in the sands of the ocean, or buried by
earthquakes, in the heart of the earth, to be washed on shore, or
thrown out centuries of ages hence, or be found about the dust
of those who died three thousand years ago. From the lead
mines of Missouri, seeds, from which shrubs have sprung, have
been disinhumed, in the mining oper^ions,* a great many feet
from below the surface. This retentive and renovating quality,
of the vegetable world, is found to exist in the annual and moral,
also.
Ancestral customs, spring up in posterity, when congenial cir-
cumstances present, and this at great distances of time, after
their supposed total loss.
It is true the outer, may sometimes supersede the inner man,
in producing impressions.
Cromwell, who was the very greatest hypocrite that the whole
creation ever bore, with a heart black and corrupt as can be
found in the deepest hell, had religion and morality, and mildness
on his tongue, and placability in his demeanor.
The character of Richard Cromwell, his son, was formed from
the surface sweets of his father, and did not partake of his heart
malignity at all. He was of course too good a man to occupy
the Protector's place. He could not, like him, live upon poisons,
and yet not swell, nor turn livid, nor look pale. Too good to be
a hypocrite liimself, he was too good also to suspect his father of
hypocrisy, and had no conception that he was unlike him m
heart, when he had his exterior.
It is supposed, however, that Cromwell did something by his
rebellion in favor of English Liberty. This may be true. But
a remark contained in a letter to a mercantile house in London,
from Gen. Washington, although applied by him to another sub-
ject, may, we think, be with propriety applied to the present, so
iar as relates to Cromwell. That it was " Mean in quality, but
NOT IN PRICE."
A feminine holder forth in the pulpit, has been compared to two
females boxing in the street, as to the effect that each phenome-
non has upon the spectator—he being equally displeased if a gen-
* Mr. Schoolcraft.
THE TONGUE OF TIME, 25
lleman, and equally gratified if a ruffian. Dr. Johnson compared
these female preachers to a dog standing up on his hind legs.
We look upon one of these Cromwell-preachers as equally
disgusting. They have never too much religion for themselves,
and never any to dispense to the public, if they knew themselves.
But 0'Cow??.e// has promulgated lately the clue by which we
are to be guided into the political labyrinth of such patriots as
was Cromwell, and as is himself—by saying, that ' consistenci/^ is
a rascally doctrine,*
It is doubtful whether the prince of the infernal regions, has
held communion with a viler politician since the days of Crom-
well, than this O'Connell. A wretch, who would have the slaves
Hberated, to murder women and children.
"And the Lord said unto Satan, The Lord rebuke thee, O Sa-
tan." Satan is said to have three forms of temptation. The
roaring lion, the subtile serpent, and the angel of light. We
should place Cromwell and O'Connell in the serpent class.
§ 10. We are taught that among all nations, savage and
civilized. Christian and pagan, Jews or Gentiles, that there were
-certain occurrences which were mysterious, and which puzzled
the best minds, and the best men, even such as Newton and
Locke. That as one deception decayed, and one imposture van-
ished, by time or by detection, that another and another arose.
And that there always has been in the world, from the witch of
Endor and the Salem witchcraft, to Swedenborg and the Animal
Magnetists, persons who were susceptible of splendid, but impo-
sing conceptions, and misconceptions- Persons who could first
delude themselves, and then a few others, and at last the world.
But look at the effects. Keep the results, the end in view.
Mark the consequences, and the failure of all beneficial conse-
quences. Note the permanency or the transitoriness of the
issue. The permanency as to place and people, or the emigrant
and migratory habits of the actors, and their evanescent conse-
quences.
No one would now believe, with Cotton Mather, in the reality
of melted brimstone being poured down a young woman's throat
* In his answer to Dr. Doyle.
3*
26 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
in the same room wherein he himself was at the same time, and
of which he could discern nothing at all. The reply is, no ; and
that no person in our days would for a moment credit such
monstrous absurdity. But the continuation of the reply is, that
the world is changed, and that neither the actors nor the actions
are alike ; and that the animal magnetists, and the Swedenbor-
gians, and the phrenologists are men of science. So we reply,
were Mr. Locke and Sir Isaac Newton. And as to the acts and
doings of the parties, if we are to believe the spectators, they are
equally unaccountable, in some instances, upon any known natu-
ral or scientific principles, as were the pranks of the Salem
witchery.
We therefore must, as friends to the world, and to the good of
society, and to the best interests of the community, disapprove
of secret societies, and strange practices, and hidden mysteries.
We spurn occult sciences, and protest against guides who are
blind themselves, or who would make us blind, in order to lead us
astray. The world has now stood long enough to have its eyes
wide open.
The progress of true knowledge, and genuine wisdom, cannot
be aided by imposition or imposture. But that the general good
may be injured by attempts to piy into futurity, and by gipsies,
and supposed witches, and fortune telling, seems to be admiftecj,
by nations, ancient and modern, enacting laws against them.
W^e have no more faith in the modern editions of these works,
thcin in their first impressions.
Wave after wave, and cataract after catai'act of absurdities
have passed away, and yet a mountain of them remain to be re-
moved.
§ 11. Our view of the world is, that its continents and islands
all once joined, and formed only one division of land, without
any intervening seas. Can we be allowed to infer, that this state
of things will again occur ? And may these words, which we
find in the Bible, be supposed to allude to the subject, and to be
a confirmation of this theory 1 The words to which we have
reference are these: " And there shall be no more sea."* No
" In the lime of the flood, as Josephus observes, the dry land was turned
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 27
more sea to divide the dry land into islands and continents. If
they Iiave reference to the things of earth, they are to be taken
literally.
§ 12. Mahometanism has long been supposed to have bor-
roAved something from Judaism, and something from Christianity.
A prize question was made at Berlin upon the subject.
The prize was awarded to the Rabbi Geiger, who, as it related
to Judaism, proved to the satisfaction of the judges, that all those
parts of the Old Testament found in the Koran, were derived
from those sources from whence the Jews formed their 3IisJina
and Talmud.
The Gospel and the Koran agree in their injunctions with
respect to giving alms to the poor, but make no special provision
for the payment of Priests. And in this latter respect, both dis-
agree with the Books of Moses, or Pentateuch, which established
tithes for that special purpose.
In this respect, we see the ameliorating effects of toleration,
for the modern clergy are more in number, and are probably
better paid, than were the ancient Priests.
It has been a query in my own mind, from whence Mahomet
obtained any knowledge of the Bible ; for the Arabians were
pagan idolaters at the time he promulgated his new religion. He
however destroyed their idols, and enjoined the worship of one,
and only one, true God.
It is an erroneous supposition, that the Mahometans actually
worship their Prophet. This they are prohibited to do, although
they make pilgrimages to Mecca, and hold the- birth place of their
lawgiver, as did the Jews Jerusalem, in very great veneration.
It has been said, but we have not been able to trace to any com-
petent authority the fact, that Mahomet forbade wine to his fol-
lowers, because it was enjoined by Christianity, and used by
Christians in his day to excess. But there is still a doubt upon
the subject ; for it does not appear, that there were any Christians
in that part, if in any part of Arabia, in the times in which he
lived, except renegades.
There is one passage in the Koran that is not a little curious,
as in its objects of benevolence, it agrees with the Gospels, and
28 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
m the amount to be given, it exactly agrees with the Pentateuch.
It is as follows: "Let us not defraud the poor of a tenth of our
goods." Tithes, or tenths, being the proportion allotted to the
Jewish priests, and giving to the poor enjoined by the Christian
religion.
There certainly is something in Mahometanism superior to pa-
ganism, as it enjoins frequent prayer, and fasting, and almsgiving.
And indeed in many respects its rules so much resemble those
given in the New Testament, as to have led to the supposition,
that they must have been derived from it. But the answer to the
Berlin prize question, nor the Life of Mahomet, by the Rev. Mr.
Bush of New York, throws no light upon this matter. The latter,
indeed, speaks directly of the Koran's " plagiarisms from our
Scriptures," but if we recollect aright, he offers no opinion as to
the source from whence they were obtained, or even asserts that
Mahomet ever saw a Bible in his life. We were not a little sur-
prised, however, that Mr. Bush should decide that the Koran was
a worthless, dishonest book, although founded, as he thinks, on
the Bible !
!
But it is clear that Mahomet, from some source or other, had
some knowledge of the Scriptures, as he acknowledges that both
Moses and Jesus were true prophets, and that they gave correct
doctrines originally, but that their original revelations are lost,
and that our present Bible does not contain them. But we must
leave these subject to those who make divinity their profession, to
which class we have not the honor to belong—although we may
again refer to them.
§ 13. China, and Ilindostan, are highly civilized countries,
but neither Jewish, Christian, nor Mahometan. We must rank
Mr. Graham with the Hindoos, as he and his followers would
dispense with all animal food, and have nothing eaten but
vegetables. If they claim affinity with any class at home, they
must take theii* stand among the skeleton makers.
The Chinese eat animal food when they can get it, but it sel-
dom falls to the lot of the common people. That people, have
been supposed by Europeans to be boastful of their numbers, their
country, and institutions. By a late census, the inhabitants of
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 29
the Celestial Empire amounted to three hundred and sixty-nine
millions. And Mr. GutzlafF, the Prussian missionary to China,
who had a better opportunity of judging than perhaps any other
European ever had, thinks the amount not over rated. And yet,
as to longevity, they make four persons only of this immense
number to be one hundred years old ! Whilst by our last census,
(that of 1830,) out of a population of less than thirteen millions,
there were in the United States, two thousand five hundred and
fifty-six persons of one hundred years old, or upwards ! This is
pretty sufficient proof that animal food is favorable to longevity,
for there are no people in the known world who eat so much
animal food as the Americans. Many of these centenarians
were colored people, which shews that they are well treated in
this country.
§ 14. The animal magnetists, the phrenologists, the Sweden-
borgians, and the vegetable eaters, all agree in making strong
cases out of scanty materials. Their minds appear to have been
chaotic, but hissing, by which they raised a steam, which first
blinded themselves, and then others.
. They could pull down a cathedral, but could not erect a wig-
wam. It is they who make us thiek of what Cecil says of the
Jacobins in England—that they have poisoned Watts' Hymns for
children. One says, that he who thinks that all mankind are
wrong, and always have been from Adam, must keep his thoughts
to himself, or be prepared to die a martyr. Animal food is coe-
val with man ; and it would be equally reasonable and consistent
to forbid water, as to forbid meat.
It is a maxim with the Jewish Rabbins, that the love that is not
accompanied with reproof is not genuine. But this must have
its limits, and not be extended to those in whom there is nothing
to reprove.
§ 15. Some one observes, that great writers are rare, and the
necessity for them very rare'. There have been very few who
were able to present excellent sentiments, adorned with all the
sweets and perfumes of pure, smooth, chaste, and elevated
language.
30 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Some things are rejected from prejudice, and others for the
reason that thej are used hy those who are dislilied. The Papist
has the books of the Apocrypha in his canon, whilst the Protes-
tant pays less respect to them than to works known to be the
works of profane authors.
Do good to your friend, that he may be more wholly yours—to
your enemy, that he may become your friend, is one of the finest
sentiments of antiquity.*
Every man is proud, but few are, as should be the chairmen
or speakers of Congress and of Parliament, prompt, patient, and
proud.
It is hark and steel for the mind, to take some one of the great
luminaries of antiquity, and to write upon any subject, our con-
jectures of what he would say upon it.
Cicero composed themes upon imaginary topics, which he
rehearsed every day. Such eloquence as was that of Demosthe-
nes and Cicero, was learned in no school. Men of their stamp,
are always self-educated ; and never, hke sciolists, say that they
have finished then* studies, for they remain students during life.
Instead of relying on the brightest torches which the world ever
displayed, they lighted one of their own, of superior lustre, upon
which the eyes of the world have been fixed ever since.
Let the aspirant for excellence at the forum, the bar, or the
senate, figure to himself a model of Ciceronean exfeellence—which
never shall give an opponent the advantage in an argument, nor
ever fail of taking it when given—which shall select the strong
point of every case, and seize every object by the right handle,
and so present the prominent features of every subject, as to en-
force admiration, and to compel conviction, that every thing to
the purpose, has been said that could be said.
Let Cicero's manly piety, poetic fancy, philosophic profiindity,
scholastic acuteness, his selections in youth, of what was
most proper to practice in mature age, his speaking well, and
acting better, be models embalmed in the heart of every young
American. It is a pure heart that makes the tongue im-
pressive.
* A sentiment derived from Cleobulus.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. $1
Such men as Demosthenes and Cicero, although buried, are not
dead, for they hve in fame forever.
Edmund Burke, and Patrick Henry, perhaps came the nearest
of any of the moderns, in concentrating their excellencies.
With all these bright luminaries before them, we may expect to
see our youthful aspirants, in the language of Milton, springing
upward like a pyramid of fire. Still, those who fly too high, too
far, or too fast, may find their pinions fail.
The motto on Goethe's ring
—
ohne haste, ohie rast, haste not,
REST not—is the proper one for every scholar, and every aspirant
to adopt. Of all the German writers, no one is to be more ad-
mired than Goethe. One of his views has particularly struck
us, as evincing his candor, and self-knowledge. He thought he
could promise to be upright^ but not impartial. Impartiality, in
his opinion, being more than could always be possible. His
character is, as every ones should be, not only pure, but bright.
Time only respects what it has finished. The wood of the tall
tree, whose growth is rapid, rapidly decays.
Every one owes obedience to the laws, but a still higher obliga-
tion is due to morality ; and when it so happens that both cannot
be complied with, it is better to do an illegal act, than an immoral
one.
In China, in one respect, morality and legality, are made to
converge to a point. There, a man is directed, at a fixed period
by law, to take a wife, and he obeys. Every thing there is a
matter of legislation, and marriage is not excepted.
Milton was of opinion, that those who made men abhor mar-
riage, committed a diabolical sin.
Fortune usually knocks at the door of every man once during
his life, but if she does not find him at home, she does not call
again. But when a man marries, he secures her an abode in his
own house.
Many females have rejected the first matrimonial knock at the
door, to their lasting regret in after times.*
* It is said of a certain lady whose husband is, or has been in the alms hDUse,
that she refused an offer of marriage from a gentleman who afterwards was
chosen President of the United States.
32 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Let novel and romance writers say what they will, the greatest
number of happy marriages have ensued from interest, expedien-
cy, necessity, and the choice of friends.
In all these cases, the creation, ripening, increase, and security
of affection, are more sedulously sought, than in love matches.
Marriage and money are in some respects alike. Those who
do not look well to small incidents, will not be happy, and those
who do not look to small sums, will not be wealthy.
Nothing is so dangerous as for the parties to think that they
love so much, that they never can hate, as is the case in love
matches. And nothing is so sure a road to poverty, as for any
one to think that he is so rich that he never can become poor.
Love, like money again, is easier gotten than kept.
The best garden in the world must have care and cultivation,
or fine fruits and flowers will not be produced, and the most ex-
cellent dispositions and sweetest tempers, must be cherished, and
will certainly change for the worse, by improper management.
There is no danger in our happy land, of persons entering into
the married state if they are not rich, provided they have industry,
good morals and economy.
"^
Let there be no amalgamation—no mixture of races—no
Ethiopian changing his skin. Let this, all this, be avoided for
the sake of heaven, pity, and decency, but let other matrimonial
barriers be few, if not entirely broken down. It was antichrist
who forbade to marry.
§ 16. There was magnanimity in the reply of lord Nelson,
when requested to prosecute one for ill behavior. His blunt an-
swer being, that there was no need of ruining a poor devil, who
was sufiiciently his own enemy to ruin himself. Those who de-
spise marriage, are of this description.
There are few who of choice break into that domicil whose
pillars are bone, whose covering is flesh, and whose garniture is
blood, let their belligerent hump be never so fully developed.
We often meet with those who have acquired renown for having
seen the world, and every thing in it, in their travels ; and who
yet can scarce enlighten us on any thing we wish to know, or tell
us what we cannot see ourselves, that their mouths have been
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 33
open, and their eyes shut, when absent, just as we find them at
present. They pass the world without experience, just as some
judges on judicial benches, decide cases by precedent, whether it
does justice or injustice, in the case on trial.
Mr. Burke said that kings were fond of low company. But
this is just what most men would be if they dared to show their
true inclinations.
Garrick stole away from high company, into a wood-yard,
where he was found, aping and mocking a cock turkey, to amuse
a young negro, who was laughing most boisterously.
But how did Mr. Burke know that kings were fond of low
company 1 Had he ever seen them in it—had he ever known
tliem manifest a predilection of the kind 1 Probably not. We
presume that it was only an inference drawn from a general view
of mankind, from which he did not except kings.
The disposition of men and women to be amused, is with few
exceptions, universal. The natural bent of every child is to play
rather than study. And the reason that travellers bring home so
few things from abroad, of intrinsic value, is, that they are satia-
ted with amusing stories and unimportant trifles.
We seldom see a person too much engaged to stoop and pick
up a pin. And a strange trifle will stop any gentleman's coach
en the road, and stay the proceedings of Congress and Parlia-
4
34 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
ment. Most men manifest a pleasure at hearing high words,
however low the contending parties. In the interval of courts of
justice, we do not hear the judges and counsellors talking of the
great and intricate points of law. The blunders or eccentricities
of a witness, is ten to one more apt to engross their hours of
conversation.
The bent brow, and the studious look of the divine and physi-
cian, are not carried out of the pulpit and sick room.
Babes mourn when they see other persons weep, not knowing
what the cause of grief may be ; and men laugh when others
laugh, though bearing loads of misery.
It is an unpleasant task to talk of grief. Human pride induces
every one to wish that he may be thought fortunate and lucky,
and that if he has had a mountain in his way, that he has remo-
ved it himself. This is one universal principle. It is a hard task
to keep another life in constant view. It makes the heart beat
hard, and shortens the sweets of this. Light hearts alone beat
long. Those monks who have dug their own graves, by throw-
ing a shovel full of earth from them every day, have soon suppli-
ed the narrow house with a tenant.
Respect your end^ by making this life useful to yourself and
others, and agreeable to all. That kind of pride is most nauseous
which disdains to give pleasure to others, and that moroseness
most unenviable which is never pleased itself.
There is a common saying in one of the States of the Union,
that it takes all kinds of people to make a world.
The literary, refer to Shakspeare to prove temporal things,
just as divines to the Bible, to prove spiritual. The vast and un-
limited survey, which that philosophic poet took of all sorts of
people, and the critical acumen which he manifested in pointing
to the inmost recesses of their hearts, has not less astonished than
entertained the world.
The king is made to say of Armado, the fantastical Spaniard,
that he loved to hear him lie. Whether Mr. Burke had this, or
any other of Shakspeare's writings in view, when he said that
kings loved low company, is not apparent. .
Minds that feast the world at the expense of the emaciation
of their own bodies, discover many things which paiT^T^^i**^''
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 35
bodies do not discover, nor highly rehsh when discovered by-
others.
Such minds had Shakspeare and Edmund Burke. Without
labored volumes, we find historic scraps from such writers, which
throw more light upon the world than tomes of extracts and com-
pilations.
§ 17. Sir Walter Raleigh, in his History of the World, Dr.
Grey, Decker, and Ben Johnson, must all be referred to, to com-
plete the history of one man and his horse ! It is an extraordi-
nary case, however, and is worth notice of itself, and as a charac-
teristic of the times of 1609. Banks, an Englishman, had a
horse, which he had trained to follow him wheresoever he went,
even over fences, and to the roofs of buildings. At home. Banks
and his horse went to the top of that immensely high building,
St. Paul's church. The horse and his master then went to Rome,
where they performed feats equally astonishing. But the result
was, that both master and horse were burnt, by order of the Pope,
for enchanters. Sir Walter Raleigh observes, that had Banks
lived in olden times, he would have shamed all the enchanters of
the world, for no beast ever performed such wonders as his. The
burning of this poor man and his extraordinary horse, was dis-
graceful to the age ; but acts, equally disgraceful, have been per-
petrated long since.
§ 18. There are things which may be talked of, which can
not be thought of. We may talk of a globe, or a flower, or a
circle without any kind of color whatever, but we cannot possibly
think of them. We may, however, both talk and think of a
mighty wind, which is without shape or color, except in fancy.
What odd fantastic things we women do, was said or fancied
of women, by a woman. But the most fantastic being of which
we ever heard, was a Spaniard, of the other sex, who apologi-
zed to the sky, which he termed sweet welkin^ for breathing in its
face.
The false dignity of the Spaniards, is as notorious as their cru-
elty. Their national character is Arabian. They derived it from
the Moors, who were in fact Arabs, and once, and long, had pos-
session of Spain. The Spaniards expelled them at last, but re-
36 THE TONGUE OF TIMe/
tained their manners. Or at least they expelled those whom
the Inquisition could not convert, or did not burn, or reduce to
poverty and ruin. The amount of those expelled was six
hundred thousand, the remnant of a race, once numerous and
powerful.*
The Jews, who at one time formed a large proportion of the
population of Spain, were almost totally extirpated by the In-
quisition. After this court of blood and murder, had gotten rid
of the Moors and Jews, their vengeful eyes were turned upon the
Christians themselves.
What scenes of hon-or, barbarity and death, have the three na-
tions of Moors, Jews, and Indians, suffered from this incarnate
race of devils, the Spaniards. The blood chills, humanity shud-
ders, and mercy faints, at the recital. If the spirits of persons
unjustly and cruelly destroyed, are permitted to retaliate their in-
juries upon the Spanish nation, its prosperity must be blasted for
centuries to come. And it is now suffering one of the greatest of
earthly calamities, that of civil war.
It is agreeable to turn away from the black acts and the dia-
bolical actors, to a few redeeming qualities, in the writers and
poets of that nation. Cervantes, the author of Don Quixote, is
one of the principal of these. He, as a writer, produced as much
laughter in the world as any author who ever wrote. Shakspeare
can hardly be excepted. Yet it is unpleasant to think how
strongly the misfortunes of his life, contrasted with the merri-
ment of his celebrated work. The first part of it was written by
him at the age of 56, whilst confined in prison for debt. He lost
his left hand, when young, and a common soldier, at the battle
of Lepanto. He was captured on his return homeward, from
thence by water, by the Algerines, and for five years kept a pris-
oner, or more properly speaking, a slave, by them. He died
April, 1616, aged 67 years.
The romances and plays of the Spaniards, exceed those of all
other nations, in giving wit and success to rogues and robbers.
A striking feature of their plays is still more indicative of the
national character It is the frequency of murder, and the infre-
quencTj of its punishment. In one of their plays, however, the
*M Sismondi.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 37
devil, who is one of the dramatic persons, is punished pretty
well, by beina^ compelled to become a preacher, in the city of
Lucca, in order to make some atonement for the evil he had
done to the Capuchins, in that place. But there is still one ob-
jectionable feature in this play, for the manner in which this is
brought about ; it being by the descent of the infant Jesus to the
earth, with Si. Michael, who compel the devil to clothe himself
in tlie habit of St. Francis, and to become a preacher of right-
eousness.*
It is said of one of their dramatic writers, that he wrote no less
tliaii 2200 theatrical pieces. This was Lope dc Vega, who must,
as it is calculated, have given the world a new play, once in eight,
days from the beginning of his life to the end of 'it. Besides
which, we are told that he wrote twenty-two volumes quarto, of
poetry.
There are some sentiments of extreme delicacy occasionally
found in both the poetry and prose of the Spanish writers. The
representation of the ermine, by Calderon, suffering itself to be
caught by its pursuers, rather than to be wounded, for fear its
beautiful fur should be soiled, is of this kind. Every one will
consider the .account fabulous, but it shows a delicacy of inven-
tion.
Whoever does not feel a tearful emotion, or a throb of sensi-
bility, at reading the following pathetic lines, let him read them
over again. They are from a Spanish poet, named Garcilaso.
Poor lost Eliza ! of thy locks of gold,
One treasured ringlet in white silk I keep
Forever at my heart, which when unroU'd,
Fresh grief and pity o'er my spirit creep.
And my insatiate eyes, for hours untold
O'er the dear pledge will like an infant weep :
With sighs more warm than fire anon I dry
The tears from off it, number one by one,
The radiant hairs, and with a love-knot tie ;
Mine eyes ; this duty done.
Give over weeping, and with slight relief,
*
I taste a short forgetfulness of grief.
"See M. Sisinondi.
4*
38 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
It is related of one of the kings of Spain, that he wished to
marry a certain beautiful lady, and that after his overtures were
made, that he was rejected. Much surprise at her conduct was
manifested, and it was not until after much solicitation, that she
could be induced to tell, what she called, the hidden and fatal
reason, why she could never become the king's wife. It was,
that in coming down a certain stair-case, in company with the
king's brother, his lips and her's came in contact. The fact was
that she liked the king's brother better than she did the king, and
him at last she married. And creditable it is, though strange
it sounds of a Spaniard, the king had magnanimity enough to
forgive them both.
§ 19. Melancholy sensibility is a more common mark of the
poetry of the north, than of the south of Europe. The pleasant,
the beautiful, and praiseworthy things of Spain, are fitful in their
appearance, and evanescent in their stay. The ferocity of the
soldiers, and the vindictive spirit of the citizens, were probably
produced by the revolting spectacle of seeing persons burned to
death by the Inquisition. The Mexican national character is
Spanish. The ancient national character of the country, in the
time of the Romans, does not appear to have had the bloody
stains upon it which are apparent in modern times. But the
Visigoths, who were the conquerors of Spain, the popes, and the
autos da fe^ were all then unknown.
There never was a character which more dissrraced a crown,
except Nero, than Philip II., of Spain, He had, as we are told
by M. Sismondi, a savage disregard of the miseries of war and
famine. His perfidy was most shameful and fiendlike, and his
ambition to do evil, unbounded. As an expiation for such mon-
strous crimes, he introduced a new one, still more monstrous.
This was the Inquisition, a cruel, unjust court, which was first
invented in the twelfth century. As he had shut the gates of
mercy on mankind, in civil matters, he made the mild religion of
Christians, a sanguinary engine of torture in religious ones. He
• calculated to expiate his own crimes, by exquisitely punishing
those who were innocent of any crime whatever. We feel dis-
gusted, and a contempt beyond all the powers of expression, at
a kingly wretch, who could so transform a religion of mildness,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. d\f
purity and benevolence, as to make it the engine of bonds, im-
prisonment, chains, torture, and the faggot.
We are told that some of the ruthless ancients, not very justly
called Fathers, struck out of the Bible that passage, Jesus wept
;
they thinking, as appears by the testimony of Epiphanius, that
his weeping was a degradation of his character. But it was the
very text that ought to have been noticed by such persons as
Philip II. ; as denoting for his imitation, a disposition touched
with human infirmities, merciful, benevolent and forbearing, mild
and placable. In all things the very antipodes of Philip II., that
monster of iniquity, is that character which this text designates.
It seems doubtful whether the Spaniards derived from the
Moors, the true characteristics of Arabic poetry. The aim of
the Arab, was to make a bold and brilliant use of the most
gigantic images. Their poetry never aims to express the tender
emotions of the heart, but the most ardent passion, emotion, and
hyperbole of the soul. Hence the very best poets that Europe
ever produced, from Homer to Byron, would not be esteemed
worth translating by them. They are all too tame—too smooth,
and in their view, quite insipid and timid.
By what a Tartarian monster such cruelty ought to be punish-
ed, as was that of Nero and Philip II., we will introduce a few
couplets, of what may be deemed the Arabic description.
THE SERPENT OF HELL.
A fiery serpent with a red hot tongue,
And blue-flame breath, his boiling poison flung,
A thousand feet his length, twice two his tails,
Like red-hot pitchforks sharp ; his teeth red nails ;
Brimstone his food, of boiling pitch he drank,
He darts aloft, or coils into a bank
;
His flaming breath, blows white the red-hot coals.
And whirlwind sparks, fly high, when he unrolls :
All his delight to torture damned souls,
On Nero now his flaming breath is spent,
Through Philip's head his red-hot tongue is sent,
While with his tails, all hell with wonder seeS; »
Their bodies thrown, high as the highest trees.
A Spanish lady of fashion, was surprised by her lover, with
another lover ; and to his furious reproaches, she calmly answer-
40 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
ed, that she was persuaded that he did not love her, since he
believed his own eyes in preference to her word.
It would seem that the Roman Catholic laity, although they so
highly reverence their priests, are not entirely blind to their luxu-
ry, laziness, and sensuality. One of the Spanish writers says of
them, that to live pleasantly, to buy good fish, the whitest bread,
and the finest wine, is their object, the whole year round. And
he adds, God willing, I would be of this order, if I could pur-
chase my salvation at this price.
Another says of them, that he held Saint Peter, and Saint An-
drew, to have been egregious fools, for suffering so many torments
for the sake of God, since all these people also are to be saved,
meaning the clergy of the Romanists, of his time.
Love, and a nice sense of honor were the leading characteris-
tics of Arabian manners, which the Moors introduced into Spain.
They regarded the habitation of their wives as a sanctuary, and
any reflection cast upon their females, as blasphemy.
O ! I must write to you my dear upon asbestos : my sighs, and
tears, and flaming breath of love, would destroy paper, like a
blaze of the hottest fire.
Mr. Burke said, that there could be no virtue where there was
no wisdom. Were this rule applied to love-letters, they would be
condemned as without the limits of wisdom and virtue ; they
generally being most insufferably nonsensical, in the opinion of
all, except those for whom they are designed.
The romances, and poetry, and novels of Europeans and Amer-
icans, must keep within the limits of some kind of probability,
although they are pictures of what might have been true, rather
than truth itself. But Arabian stories, as in the Arabian Nights,
keep not within any such bounds.
A tale, which does not astonish, surprise and confound, and
which does not set at defiance all sober calculation, and rational
theory, is with that imaginative people, dull, lifeless, and unwor-
thy of notice.
A kill-ski/ salutation, a thunder-tongued speech, and an Ossa
on Pelion description, alone have charms for them.
All the east partakes of this inflated taste. A Turkish paper
tells that, " a soul-animating rose-bush, bud and blossom yielding.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 41
ill the happy imperial rose-garden, has exhibited signs of vegeta-
tion ;" by which it is understood that the Sultan is expecting an
addition to his family.
They loved to hear of flying against tornadoes, of breasting
floods, fires, furies and fears, and of scaling the towering Ararat.
The Turkish Sultan, when the French under Buonaparte, in-
vaded Egypt, called upon all true believers, to take arms against
those swinish infidels, the French, that they might deliver their
blessed habitations from their accursed hands.
§ 20. The Sultan holds a feast upon a curious occasion exery
year. It is on the 17th of May, and is celebrated at the Sweet
Springs. It is on account of the cattle being turned to green
pasture at that time of year. A pleasant feast, at a pleasant
place, and for a pleasant cause.
The beginning of a letter lies before me to the Grand Sultan,
which is a fair sample of eastern style ; it is thus : —My Sublime,
Magnanimous, Awe-inspiring Mighty Great Sovereign, our bene-
factor and the benefactor of all mankind ; may God grant to
your sublimity a life without end.*
An Arab describing a giant.—A giant stood behind the highest
pyramid of Egypt, looking over its top, towards the river. He
had been to the city of Alexander, and came from the utmost
springs of the river Nile. His shoes were of wood ; they had
formerly been two large canoes ; he had one of them on each
foot, which it completely fitted and filled. His walking cane was
the mast of a seventy-four gun ship, which he had hauled on
shore from the harbor of Alexandria, and then pulled out. His
course from the pyramid, was towards the Nile, which he seemed
inclined to cross. I doubted whether he would wade, or swim,
or sail the river ; but he did neither ; he jumped over from the
<^astern .to the western shore, at a single bound, but split his
shoes by the leap.
A blazing fire, made of human bodies, of dried, well seasoned
mummies, from the catacombs of Egypt, warms the Arab by night,
and the milk of his mare, sustains him by day.
* From Ibrahim Bey, Pasha of Egypt.
42 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
§ 21. Mr. Warburton,* speaks of the Egyptians as having
animalized the asterisms. But the aborigines of America, had
done the same before the continent was discovered. The con-
stellation of the Great Bear, bore the same name in the Indian
language, as.that of great hear in English.
" The very silliest things in life,
Create the most material strife."
The world is, in this respect, in modern, as it was in ancient
times. Mr. Hume observes, " what can be imagined more trivial
than the difference between one color of livery and another, in
horse races 1 yet this difference begat two most inveterate factions
in the Greek empire, the Prasina and Veneti, who never sus-
pended their animosities till they ruined that unhappy govem-
ment."t
Lope de Vega, would confine all rules of art under six locks
and keys, when he was about to write a play, before he began a
line of it. But poets, and authorities, and judges, and all sorts
of people, may, like the Spaniard, defy and deny all rules occa-
sionally, and thus gain more credit from those who pay, that is,
the vulgar, than by observing them ; and more applause from
those who applaud, that is, fools.
One of Lope de Vegans characters, Tello, says that his father,
when he died, gave particular directions for one of his hands to
be left out of the grave, that he might be able to receive, what any
one was disposed to give him.
The horse of the Arab knows his master as well as the dog of
the Frank, and is attached to him as affectionately.
We keep in view the Arab and ^aniard, as having many
things in common, as to customs and literature. We were told
not many years ago, and for aught that we know, it may be the
case now, that the Spanish popular preachers, adorned their ser-
mons, or rather speeches, with images drawn from the ancient
mythology. And that they would not have thought that they had
much success in their vocation, unle:<s they had been cheered
with repeated bursts of laughter. Jests, a play on words, and
* Divine Legation, b, iv. s. 4.
^Seept. 1 Ess. 8.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 43
scandalizing episodes, with a romantic sporting style, were char-
acteristics of the pulpit, as well as of the play-house. And even
blasphemous expressions were sometimes used, and afterwards
explained away by their clergy.
We have been present at religious assemblies, in which violent
bursts of grief, instead of laughter, were considered by the
speaker, as a token of his success. This excessive anxiety to
rarify the passions, is of Arabic origin. It was most apparent in
Spain, and there it was directly derived from the Moors. But it
had spread into other kingdoms, and was arrested in England, by
the Puritans and Presbyterians ; who with a view to check the
abuses apparent in external rehgion, endeavored to deprive it of
all worldly colors and colorings, and to fix its basis on the heart
and understanding alone. A sober, sad, unyielding demeanor,
which was not altered by either joy or grief, blessings or judg-
ments, mercies or afflictions, luck good or bad, jests or dirges,
was a mark of puritanism.
A Chinese, who knew nothing of Christians, should he visit
Europe, and have a Bible put into his hands, which had been
translated into his own language, would have no idea that the
Spanish priests were Christian ministers, by their sermons, nor
the Puritans a Christian people, by their looks.
The extremity of puritanism was reached by the Quakers, who
abjured all external religion, except as evidenced by a religious
life and conduct. Hence they seldom preached ; they prayed in
secret, or mentally, and never sang at all.
The pure principles of equality, were advocated by them
:
hence they had neither bishops, priests, ministers, elders, nor
deacons. In civil government, they would have no governors.
They even carried these principles of equal rights, so far as
to extend them to inanimate objects, and would, at one time,
have none of their books printed, with any capital letters in
them !*
To the house of Bourbon, M. Sismondi awards the credit of
abolishing the burning of heretics in Spain. The last Auto de
/c, was in the time of Charles II.
* London Quarterly Review.
44 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
A rich imagination, with a whimsical style, is a mark of Span-
ish writers, and this, one of their own poets might have had in
view, when he wrote the following lines :
" Let every candidate for fame,
Rely upon this wholesome rule,
Your work is bad, if wise men blaiae,
But worse, if lauded by a fool
!"
After all, it cannot be denied but that the style of many parts
of the Bible is highly figurative, and that all the eastern nations
retain to this day, some resemblance in their style, to that which
is found in the sacred writings.
It has been thought strange, that the most western nations of
Europe, should have had more resemblance to the Asiatics, than
any other part of it. But the solution is to be found in the con-
sideration, that this part of Europe, lies nearest to Africa, the
northern coasts of which derived its inhabitants from Asia—to the
Moors once having been in possession of Spain, and to tiie Por-
tuguese having first doubled the Cape of Good Hope, and visited
India in their voyages.
The East Indies were first visited by the Portuguese, as were
the West Indies by the Spaniards.
To the inhabitants of the Peninsula, we must therefore award
the credit of having discovered new countries, or countries before
unknown to Europe, and of .having invented new and noble ideas
in their writings. To the Enghsh, and to their descendants, the
palm must, however, be awarded, for their immense improvements
in each—improvements which would have never been made by
their original discoverers.
Much that is done in all Roman Catholic countries, is rather to
be gazed at than admired,
§ 22. Alfonso I. of Portugal, is supposed to have been the
founder of that kingdom. He had for his arms, five escutcheons
ranged in form of a cross, on which were represented the thirty
pieces of silver, the price for which Jesus was betrayed.
The city of Lisbon, if the Portuguese are to be believed, was
founded by Ulysses.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 49
A trait of the Portuguese literature is the bringing of rehgious
plays tipon the stage. At one period they made St Anthony,
their patron-saint, Generalissimo of their armies, but the church,
in hisname, received the pay for his mihtary services.
The warring vi^orld, has presented the road to heaven, black
with clotted, and red with gushing blood, and never were specta-
cles of horror more apparent than in those wars undertaken pure-
ly for the sake of religion. Whoever casts his eyes upon the
pages of history, as they relate to the wars of the Saracens, which
were undertaken to establish Mahometanism, and to the crusades,
cannot fail to find out this.
§ 23. The crusades, when their objects are considered, can-
not but strike the mind, and thrill the heart, and accelerate the
pulse, and raise the soul, to sublime emotions. They were holy
wars, whose aim was to rescue a holy land, a holy city, a holy
sepulchre, from the hands of infidels—a region where the holy
prophets had dwelt and had prophesied : where the holy people
had fought the Philistine, the Assyrian, and the Jebusite—a city
where the throne of the Lord had been established on earth
—
a city of our God below—a city to which the child Jesus had been
carried, in order to be presented to the Lord—a city where Isaiah
had prophesied ; where David had reigned and written, and where
Solomon had recorded the never ending words of wisdom, and
had erected a temple for the residence of the Divinity. How rich
the recollections—how redolent the rehearsal-—how fruitful of
food to the feelings of every thing connected with our religion !
A region in its associations most lovely—the loveliest of the love-
ly ; and yet in its reversal of events, most austere and terrible :
for in this same city, one million, one hundred thousand of the
chosen people perished, by the Roman armies, under Vespasian
and Titus, or rather by their own suicidal superstition ; those
humane Emperors, not wishing to destroy either the city or the
citizens, had they not been compelled by the wicked obstinacy of
the Jewish leaders.
The inhabitants were reduced to such extremity by famine,
that the young nursing mother's breasts *
afforded nothing but
46 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
blood for her infant's support ; which offspring of her own, she
was at last constrained by hunger to kill and to eat.
It is not wonderful that a land producing such vast and varied
events, should have a language of interjections. When Asia is
visited, the garden of Eden is approached : when at Jemsalem,
the river Jordan, and Galilee, and the lake Genneseret, Caperna-
um, Chorazin, Bethsaida, the mount of Olives, and mount Cal-
vary are approximated—names of places which preach sermons
by their bare mention, as the mention of Egypt, and Babylon,
and Jericho, place historical volumes before our eyes.
The Saracens considered the voice of heaven, throuo-h its
prophet Mahomet, and its word in the Koran, to have pointed out
the only pathway of salvation for their souls, m the subjugation
of the world to the tenets of Islamism ; and that every one who
fell fighting in a cause so glorious, was sure of eternal glory
;
whilst the Crusaders believed that the honor of the only true reli-
gion was sullied, by the theatre upon which its founder was born
and crucified, baptized, preached, and wrought miracles, being in
the possession of unbelievers.
Each party believed itself the worshippers of the true God
;
and each party had many prodigies to adduce, as having been
performed by heaven's hand in its own favor. That the king of
heaven was on their own side, each party was fully persuaded
;
and that He did not give them the entire and total victory, was
imputed to the agency of demons and evil spirits, who opposed
the will of heaven, and caused success to sometimes lean towards
their enemies.
The Crusaders imagined that they were combatting the powers
of heJl in incarnate forms, when they fought the Saracens ; and
both parties, at that period of time, supposed that a war was
waged between spirits, good and bad, just as on earth betwixt
armies and nations.
The dark and dreadful powers of enchantment, had much to
do against the knights, and Godfrey and Baldwin, the leaders of
the Christians, in the crusades.
§ 24. The manners and customs of eastern nations never
change. Modern travellers discover features of character among
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 47
the present inhabitants, which serve to throw light upon some
things mentioned in the Bible. The inhabitants of Spain, and
Portugal, having their national characters based upon eastern
models, likewise retain their enduring propensities.
The reformation altered the religious nationality of those
countries which adopted it ; but prior to that period, Europe in
her other kingdoms, was much as is the Peninsula now. We
have referred to the burlesque, introduced into the sermons of the
Spanish priests ; but Dr. Robertson, in his Life of Charles V.,
mentions the same thing in regard to Luther himself; of whose
cotemporaries he says, " nor were they offended at the gross
scurrility with which his polemical writings are filled, or at the
low buffoonery which he sometimes introduces into his gravest
discourses." And he adds, that " no dispute was managed in
those rude times without a large portion of the former ; and that
the latter was common even on the most solemn occasions, and in
treating the most sacred subjects."*
Nothing is more probable than that Mahomet, when he affirm-
ed that Moses and Jesus gave true revelations at first, but that
they were lost, founded this opinion upon the conduct, and mode
of worship, which he had learned that the Christians had adopted
in his day. It is not on the whole, very probable, that he ever
learned any thing directly from the Bible, or ever siaw one at all.
Printing was then unknown, and copies of the Scriptures very
scarce, and very dear. The whole Christian world was then
Papistical, for even the Greek church, which was the earliest
seceder from the Roman, did not leave the holy mother until about
two hundred years after Mahomet.
With the greatest reason imaginable, might he then conclude,
that true and genuine revelation was unknown, when he beheld,
or heard of the enormities of that world denominated Christian,
in the dark ages of the Romish church ; a period when monkish
superstition was combined with heathenish idolatry. The Visi-
goths had overrun Spain. There was, or had lately been a civil
war in France. The Jews at Antioch, had revolted and murdered
the Christians. The Sclavonians and Avari, had lately ravaged
*SeeVol.II, p. 159.
43 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Italj ; and the Persians had taken Jerusalem, and carried off the
cross of Christ.
The Jews, whom foreign nations confounded with the Chris-
tians, were about the same period, banished from both France
and Spain. The barbarians at Rome, had done away the ver-
nacular use of the Latin language ; and the power of the Popes
had lately begun or been increased in the same city.
There is no proof that Mahomet understood either Greek or
Hebrew, and therefore, if he could have obtained a copy of the
Bible, he could not have read it ; for it never was translated into
Arabic, till more than eight hundred years after Mahomet.
Had the prophet of Mecca lived in the time of Luther, and
had he understood the Bible as well, he might have embraced
Christianity, and been an able promulgator of the true faith ; the
moral precepts which he has given in the Koran, being many of
them very similar to those contained in the New Testament, as
before observed.
But the greatest wonder, enigma, and problem, is from whence
the Koran was derived; it being superior in the splendor of its
composition, and sublimity of its ideas, to any thing known to
have been composed in the seventh century, in any part of the
world. Christian, Pagan, or Mahomedan. This no one will
deny. We find the same elevated sentiments respecting the
Deity, which Cicero, Plato, and even which the Bible itself ex-
presses, in the Psalms ; and the same moral rules respecting an-
ger, the forgiveness of injuries, and giving to the poor, which are
found in that greatest of all sermons, the sermon on the mount.
But after noticing these things, and examining the evidence
respecting Mahomet's ever having had the Bible, or ever having
received any oral assistance, the external evidence is lacking, and
the internal evidence strongly against it ; for in the first place, let
it be considered, that the Bible, in those days, what few volumes
of it was in the world, was not in the hands of the common peo-
ple, but that It was sedulously kept from them by the Popes.
Secondly, that there were no Arabic Bibles, in the world at all.
Thirdly, tliose parts of the Bible to which the Koran bears so
near a resemblance, are such parts of it as have been approached
to, the nearest, by a few wise Greeks and Romans, by Seneca,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 40
and the Chinese ; and are just such parts of the sacred writings
as vagabond Jews and monks, would be least likely to retain, and
to communicate. They are passages too sublime for the vulgar,
or the vagabond, and no others, who had any knowledge of the
Scriptures, are even pretended to have conveyed any oral know-
ledge of them to Mahomet.
Sergius, a monk, is mentioned as an assistant in the composi-
tion of the Koran. There is no kind of authority for so saying,
and if there was, the internal marks of the Koran would go to
prove that he could have been nothing more than an amanuensis,
a thing not very probable for a foreigner. There is nothing of
monkish superstition in the Koran.
§ 25. The Great Author of the Christian system, said of him-
self, that he was the light that lighteth the world. That the light
that he introduced into the world, should have shone into Arabia
—
that it should have illuminated parts of the world where the
written word had not been sent, nor Gospel preachers ever reach-
ed, is the position, in regard to the matter, which we assume, in
this sui generis instance. Consonant is this, to the cessation of
oracles in the world, since his advent, and the miracles of healing
performed by Vespasian, as related by Josephus.
From the Rev. Mr. Buck's Theological Dictionary, we will in-
troduce some extracts from the Koran, in proof of what we have
said.
" God ! there is no God but he ; the living, the self-subsisting ;
neither slumber nor sleep seizeth him ; to him belongeth whatso-
ever is in heaven and on earth. Who is he that can intercede
with him but through his good pleasure 1 He knoweth that
which is past, and that which is to come. His throne is extended
over heaven and earth, and the preservation of both is to him no
burden. He is the high, the mighty."*
This passage of the Koran is said to be engraved on the orna-
ments, recited in the prayers, and much admired by the Mussul-
men.
Relating to moral duties, we have the following precepts :
—
" show mercy, do good to all, and dispute not with the ignorant."
* Sale's Koran, Vol. II. p. 30—Theological Dictionary.
5*
58 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
" Seek him who turns thee out ;
give to him who takes from thee
;
pardon him who injures thee; for God ^vill have you plant in
your souls the roots of his chief perfections."*
As an instance of their precepts, reduced to practice, and as
evincive of the knowledge of the Koran, even among Mahome-
tan slaves, we give the following anecdote.
The caliph Hassan, son of Hali, being at table, a slave let fall
a dish of meat, reeking hot, which scalded him severely. The
slave fell on his knees, rehearsing these words of the Alkoran
;
" Paradise is for those who restrain their anger." *'
I am not
angry with thee," answered the caUph. " And for those who for-
give offences against them," continues the slave. " I forgive thee
thine," replies the caliph. " But above all, for those who return
good for evil," adds the slave. *'
I set thee at hberty," rejoined
the caliph ;
" and I give thee ten dinars."t
Could it be proved that sentiments and deeds such as these,
were actually derived from our Scriptures, many would hold them
in higher estimation ; but as these Mahometans give all the glory
to one only true God, the reference is to the same ultimate source
to which it belongs.
* Buck's Dictionary, Art. Koran,
t Theological Dictionary, by the Rev. Charles Buck.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 51
We have already noticed, that the passages of the Koran,
which bear the greatest analogy to the Bible description of the
Deity, and to its moral precepts, were such as were not exclu-
sively found in it. And in proof of this, we will introduce, in-
stead of giving our own words, a passage found in the works of an
eminent divine. It contains, it is true, admissions which we did
not expect to have seen ; but still, they are, in part, undeniably
correct. He says, " In reality the necessity of forgiving injuries,
though frequently inculcated in the Alkoran, is of later date
among the Mahometans than among the Christians ; among
those later than among the heathens ; and to be traced originally
among the Jews. (See Exodus xxxiii, 4, 5.)" What is incorrect
in the above quotation is, that the Rev. writer sends us to a part
of the Bible for proof that the forgiveness of injuries is a Jewish
doctrine, when the place to which he sends us, says not a single
word, nor gives a remote hint of any thing of the kind, or any
way connected with the subject at all ! We felt but little disap-
pointment on this occasion however, when we recollected that it
was not a new thing for the Rev. author to treat his readers in
this way. His volume abounds with such deceitful references.
Indeed, on the present occasion, before examining that part of the
Bible to which reference is made, we felt a kind of indefinite
surprise ; for it came to mind, that the Jewish doctrine was an
eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth, and that this rule was re-
ferred to in the Sermon on the Mount, in order to be corrected.
As a matter of curiosity, we will here give one of this Rev.
author's references. It is in relation to the subject of baptism ;
and he says, " That infants are to be received into the church,
and as such baptized, is also inferred from the following passages
of Scripture." We are then referred to sundry chapters and
verses, none of which mention the subject of infant baptism, and
one, which may stand as an example for the remainder, is as fol-
lows : " And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multi-
tude about them, and the scribes questioning them."*
* Mark, ix, 14. Had we not examined other passages, and found them
equally irrelevant, we should have thought that here was some mistake, in tlie
Rev. author's stereotype edition.
52 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
§ 26. It was a remark of Sir George Lyttleton, that the
greatest mischief which can be done to religion is to pervert it to
the purposes of faction. But we think that equal injury has been
suffered by the overdoings of its friends ; especially when they
have dared to use dissimulation. The consequences have been
direful and extensive from 'this source, and are apt to so alienate
the mind, as to produce in it an incurable malady.
We view the Scriptures as of divine origin, and that they will
stand the test of scrutiny, and that any attempt to obviate their
intricacies, by subterfuge, will do more injury than all that pro-
fessed infidels can accomplish.
They cheated a man and killed him, said a little boy to his
father. The father was about to remonstrate, and to inform the
child that cheating was not killing. But the child continued his
story—that one of his schoolfellows informed him, that several
men had combined to make another man believe that they were
drinking gin, when in fact it was only water ; and that the man
fell a victim to the imposture, by continuing to drink as much gin
as his companions did of water, till he killed himself. Thus
cheating turned out to be killing the body, and we fear has some-
times killed the souL
There is no way of obtaining a correct view of things, but by
ascending to an eminence, to a height, so high that objects may
be viewed and reviewed in their true attitudes.
We are sometimes bedazzled, and sometimes bewildered, by
comments and commentators.
Chateaubriand tells of his sleeping upon the banks of the river
Eurotas, with his saddle for a pillow, where the light of the milky
way was so great that he could see to read by it. But what was
his star-light "? To what did the illumination of these common
people of the skies amount, when their king, the sun, appeared
among them ? There is much of this night-light in the world,
which depends upon darkness for its existence, and vanishes
when day-light appears.
It is not the number, but the magnitude of things which is
glorious and admirable. One star may differ from another star
in glory, but no star can compare with the sun. But here, how-
ever, the moral and physical worlds are at variance. For although
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 52
all the stars of heaven combined cannot make one great lumina-
ry, yet all the people of the earth combined can make a great man.
Great men, and great authors, owe their celebrity to great com-
binations of the common people in their favor. It is the commu-
nity, the majority, which makes, or unmakes a man. The tongue
OF TIME decides correctly, but is slow of utterance, so that a man
is often laid low in his grave, before his reputation is raised high
among the living. Dr. Harvey, and Mr. Milton, and even Shaks-
peare himself, may be noticed as instances. Dr. Harvey who
made the greatest anatomical, physiological, and medical discove-
ry which the world has ever known, by demonstrating the circu-
lation of the blood, instead of being benefited, was injured in his
practice by it, so long as he lived. And Milton's Paradise Lost,
afforded him neither fame nor money during his life. Shaks-
peare, the great poet of nature, whose works seem likely to
€ndure as long as the English language lasts, had some dawn-
ings of royal patronage from Queen Elizabeth, but they were
evanescent and illiberal.
Those rapturous acclamations, which England, France, Ger-
many, with the other kingdoms of Europe, and America, have
awarded to his productions, have only been uttered since death
had put him past hearing them, or of them.
On the subject of reputation, a quaint old author speaks to this
effect :
—That the good or bad repute of men, in a great measure
•depends on mean people, who carry their stories from family to
family, and propagate them very fast.
And he then goes on to illustrate his subject, by a reference to
little insects, which the smaller they be, the faster they multiply.
Perhaps upon a thorough examination, it will turn out to be a
fact, that those who have risen the very highest in reputation,
have paid the least attention to those whose tongues have been
employed to deprive them of any credit at all. Who have follow-
ed the advice of Epictetus, which was, that when any one was
told that another had spoken ill of him, to make no apology, but
only to answer, that if he had not been ignorant of many other
faults, which you had committed, he might have increased the
catalogue. "We know that this passes with many for apathy and
54 TBE TONGUE OF TIME.
meanness of spirit ; but old Chaucer says, Think not on smarts
and thou shaltfele none,
§ 27. We are told in the Spectator, of a lady who never
missed one constant hour of prayer, but yet who spent six or
eight hours of the twenty-four at cards. When her hour of prayer
arrived, she gave her cards to another person to hold, during her
absence. And when her devotions were over, she returned to
her game, as the writer expresses it, with no little anxiousness.*
Such an anecdote sounds much worse than it in reality ought
perhaps to do, there being no passage in the Bible prohibiting the
amusement of cards. And experience seems to have established
the fact, that lio;ht hearts beat the longest. Human nature is so
constituted, that it requires, and will have, some hours of recrea-
tion. This lady's spending so much of her time at cards, we
would not attempt to justify. But one thing at least was com-
mendable—which was, that she did not suffer any thing to inter-
fere with her hours of prayer.
That puritanical principle, which would annihilate the bright
orb of day, and blot out the stars from the firmament, and make
all creation one incessant period of gloomy darkness, is not
authorised by the Great Author of nature.
He made the feathered songsters with an appetency to spend a
great part of their time in leisure and singing. And so far as the
sources of heavenly bliss are revealed, they are to consist in carol-
ing unceasing praises, in a place fitted for exquisite and rapturous
enjoyment.
If then the joys of heaven are to be begun on earth, they can-
not be made to consist of gloomy misanthropy, nor in a sullen
renunciation of every pleasure and amusement.
Besides, the example of him, whose example was of para-
mount authority, whilst on earth, did not sanction the creed of
gloomy worshippers, who disfigure their faces. And we find him
giving directions to one of the chief Pharisees, at whose house he
was at meat, who were the proper persons to be invited to his
feasts—and to the company generally, how they were to behave,
when bidden to a wedding. And it was, when he himself was
* Sperutor, No. 7
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 55
one of the guests at the latter, that his first miracle was wrought.
There is a most unlicensed latitude taken in the interpretation
and application of the Scriptures.
Sectarians explain away, and in reality render null and void,
such texts as do not happen to suit their own particular creeds.
We have been horror-struck at the latitude of some of their per-
versions of Scripture.
Indeed, we can produce the books of Christian writers, and of
Christian ministers, in which express and explicit passages of the
Bible are denied to mean what they assert and purport, even when
there is no pretension that they were spoken as parables—whilst
other texts are made to mean what they do not say, nor even
give any intimation of whatever. Obscure and difficult scrip-
tures are plain to such writers, whilst those that are plain, are
made dark, or of no meaning at all. And in one instance, at
least, we could point to a certain text, which the sectarian writer
finding so much in his way that he could not remove it, has treated
with sneers and downright ridicule.
Every part of Scripture is not equally plain, and it is our
method, to regard the literal expressions as conveying the true
meaning, where no metaphor, hyperbole, similitude, nor parable
is used. But there are certain sects who incline to make a Bible
for themselves, and to unmake that which is made for them.
Those acquainted with the matter need not be told, that some
parts of the Gospel itself, are never quoted by some sectarians,
nor any weight given to them, whilst others seem to regard such
neglected texts, as containing all that is necessary to be known,
taught, or studied, and as a substitute for the whole of divine
revelation.
But Milton tells of those who will do almost any thing, if they
do not smell within themselves the brimstone of hell.
§ 28. We find now and then, in scattered and detached frag-
ments, and at great distances apart, those things which most we
wish to know.
Ministers are men, and like other men, reluctantly speak of
knotty points ; and when we come to one of them who is eminent
56 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
in his profession, and who speaks upon intricate subjects, we lis-
ten to him with much interest. We will notice some of these.
" It is well worth remarking upon this place, that the promise,
ye shall sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel^
was made to the Apostles, at that time when Judas was yet one
of the number ; and consequently, the promise was as much
made to him as to any of the rest : from whence it follows unde-
niably, that he was not predestinated to be a traitor, but fell from
his apostleship, and from his right to this promise, by his after
voluntary transgression."*
This writer appears to us to have spoken as sensibly in senti-
ment, and as soundly in doctrine, as any one that we have read,
upon this point. The apocryphal books, so deemed by protest-
ants, are considered canonical by papists.
Mr. Burke, speaking upon the book of Ecclesiasticus, says that
he does not determine whether it be canonical, but of this he is
sure, that " it contains a great deal of sound sense and truth."!
" The Mosaic law was intended for a single people only, wha
were to be shut in as it were, from the rest of the world, by a
fence of legal rites and typical ceremonies ; and to be kept by
that means separate and unmixed, until the great antitype, the
Messiah, should appear, and break down this fence, and lay open
this inclosure."!
Of the resurrection, it has been said, that Job believed that the
soul slept with the body until the resurrection. This was the
Egyptian opinion. The mention of any resurrection at all, is no
where so explicitly made in the Old Testament, as by Job. The
New Testament teaches that a general day of judgment is to be
held, at the end of the world, when the solemn decision is to be
made, where, and to which region, every individual is to be as-
signed.
But in the interval, the space between death, and the period
when this ultimate determination and final award is to take place,
the state and location of the soul, seems to stand without any ex-
* Clarke, Vol. II. Ser. 138. Richardson's Dictionary, Art. Apostle,
t Burke on the French Revolution.
t Atterbury, Vol. I. Ser. 4.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 57
plicit mention. Nor do we know the general opinion of divines
upon this point.
In our common-place book, we notice the following extract, in
which the eminent writer refers or tells what others believed ; but
without at last giving any very definite opinion, that we discover,
of his own. He tells us, that " the fathers believed that they who
die in the Lord, rest from their labors, and are in blessed places,
and have antepasts of joy and comforts ;
yet in those places they
are reserved unto the judgmeni of the great day."*
Tyndal, in his Worlce^ tells of '' sopliisters with an antheme of
half an inch, out of which some of them draw a thread of nine
days long." We do not wish quite so protracted a discourse upon
the present subject, but should have been better satisfied, if Bish-
op Taylor had given us his own ideas, instead of those of the
fathers only,
A divine with whom we was lately in company, expressed his
own view, which was, that the soul remained in the same state,
as it is, when during life, a person sleeps. He was of the Baptist
denomination.
There have been some very sensible men, who believed in im-
pressions, and premonitions of future events ; and the great wit
of England, would appear to have been one of those. He says,
" why hath not my soul these apprehensions, these presages, •
these changes, those antedates, those jealousies, thpse suspicions
of a sin, as well as my body of a sickness."t
Angels, which were called in Saxon, God's errand ghosts, the
heathen philosophers are supposed by Bishop Bull, to have ac-
knowledged the existence of, although they called them by other
names, such as demons, genii, or the like.|
We'learn that the ancient Hebrews styled the resurrection of
the body, the angelical clothing of the soul.§
We read, in one and the same chapter, of an angel having
smote Peter on the side, and liberated him from prison ; and of
an angel having smote Herod so that he died.
''
Bishop Taylor. Dissuasive from Popery, p. iv. part ii. sec. 2.
+ Dr. Donne. Devotions,
t Bishop Bull.Vol.I. ser. 2.
§ See Cudworlh's Intellectual System, p. 797.
6
58 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
It seems to have been the idea entertained by the people, who
lived in those times, that every person had his guardian angel,
which not only represented him in person, but also in voice ; for
when Peter, after his release from prison, knocked at the gate,
the damsel inside, knew him by his voice, and instead of openino-
it, ran in and told the people of the house. These disbelieved
her. And when she constantly affirmed that it was Peter, al-
though she had not, as it appears, seen him, and only knew that
it was he by liis voice, they said it is his angel.
It would seem that Peter's knocking was accompanied with his
hailing or hallooing ; as we are told, that Rhoda, the damsel,
came to hearken. This hearkening must have been for the pur-
pose of learning who the person was that wished admittance.
To hear, and not to wait to hearken, is usually thought sufficient,
when any one knocks ; sufficient, we mean, for those within to
open the door, or to bid the person to walk in, and thus to give
him the liberty to open the door for himself. But the custom of
the times when the Acts were written, appears to have been for
the person wishing admittance, to announce himself at the gate
or door, or door of the gate, before it was opened.
Angelic agency, good and evil, seem distinctly portrayed, by
the liberation of Peter from prison, and the knocking off of his
chains, and by the killing of Herod. A German divine, to whom
Adam Clarke^ refers, would ascribe the deliverance of Peter, to
the friendship of the jailer, or prefect of the prison, and thus deny
any supernatural interposition. German infidelity has become
almost proverbial, and Dr. Clarke thinks this poor divine, an ob-
ject of pity.
§ 28. It would seem, that the Persian Magi, in their Arima-
nius, and the Egyptians, in their Typhon, personated evil, or evil
angels only. And it is said of the Greeks, that they did, at one
period of their history, like the Indians of America, sacrifice to
evil demons.
Typhon, was the son of Tartarus and Terra, or of earth and
hell ; a giant, with a hundred heads, resembling those of a dragon,
or serpent. Flames of devouring fire, are said to have darted
from his mouth and eyes. He was no sooner born than he waged
THE TONGUE OF TIME* 59
war against heaven and its gods, and so frightened them, that
they assumed the shapes of various brute animals, in order to
conceal themselves from his fury* Typhon was regarded by the
Egyptians, as the source o^ every evil, and in consequence, repre-
sented as a wolf, or a crocodile. He was at last put past doing
harm by the father of the gods, who crushed him under mount
iEtna.
If any monster more anomalous, can be produced from the re-
cords of antiquity, it must be that of a serpent, with a head at
each extreme. The dragon or winged serpent, comes next, who
when called the fiery dragon^ stands for satan himself. Last of
all comes the atheist^ who has got ahead of the whole in ab-
surdity.
§ 29. The iron gate, having opened to Peter of its own accord,
is, we believe, an anomaly. We must call to mind the ideas of
the Jews, and the notions of the ancients, upon this point. They
supposed that spirits occasionally located themselves in particular
inanimate objects. No doubt the writer meant to be understood,
and was understood by those of his day, as conveying nothing
but what was well comprehended and acknowledged ; that is,
that a spirit or angelic essence, was for the time, and for the pur-
pose, the inhabitant of the iron gate, and that it was opened by
his potency.
The account given of the death of Herod in Josephus, has
been supposed by commentators, to differ very essentially from
that given in the Acts.
§ 30. Josephus gives several particulars, which are not con-
tained in the book of the Acts. But perhaps a person sufficient-
ly well informed respecting the customs and opinions of the an-
cients, and who had sufficient talents and ingenuity of his own,
might be able to reconcile the seeming discrepancies.
It appears from both accounts, that the death of Herod Agrip-
pa, took place at Cesarea, whither he went as Josephus relates,
and exhibited shows and games, in honor of Claudius, making
vows for his health. On the second day of these games, Herod
appeared in the theatre, arrayed in a garment made wholly of
60 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
silver, and of a contexture truly wonderful. The rays of the
morning sun, falhng upon this splendid garment, shone out in a
sui-prising manner, which struck the beholders with awe and
horror. He was then saluted as a god by his flatterers, and his
mercy implored by them. This impious flattery was not rebuked
by the king ; at which time, happening to look upwards, Herod
saw an owl perched on a certain rope, over his head. This bird
of ill omen, he conceived to be a messenger of evil tidings to
himself. This produced in him, as the historian expresses it, the
deepest sorrow ; and he adds, that a severe pain arose in his
bowels, and that he died after five days severe illness.*
That violent mental agitation will affect the bodily organs, is
known to every physician. Despondency, depression of spirits,
grief and sorrow, sometimes amount to that most afflicting dis-
ease, hypochondriacism, accompanied with melancholy anddys-
pepsy, and sometimes despair. We think that we have known
this state of mind to affect the bowels unfavorably, and perhaps
in a few instances, fatally. The sight of the owl, therefore,
which seems to have been the immediate exciting cause of Her-
od's sorrow and perturbation, might have been considered as an
evil angel itself, or the habitation of one ; as the opening of one
of the iron gates of the city, of its own accord, was no doubt
meant to convey the meaning of a benevolent invisible agent.
The Jews had the most technical religion that ever existed in
the known world. It was made up of ceremonies, and rites, and
ordinances, of which they were extremely tenacious. Most events
were by them referred to special and particular providences, to
the immediate interposition of the Divinity himself, or to the
agency of his messengers or angels. Angel, in the original,
meaning nothing but a messenger. The inquiry naturally arises
in the mind, by what power a general providence was carried on,
whilst a special providence was counteracting it 1
This rehgion of ceremonies, of circumcision, of feasts, fasts,
of years of Jubilee, and of days set apart for special purposes,
was succeeded by one, which as Paley observes, contains less
* See Whiston's Josephus. Ant. lib. xix. cap. 8. sec. 2. We have abridg-
ed his account.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 61
of ritual, than any other that ever prevailed amongst man-
kind.
That the efforts of inanimate matter made itself a worm, and
that this worm by its own striving, made itself* limbs, and thus,
that matter itself, without any agency, divine or intelligent, be-
came animals, with all their various functions, symmetry and
ability, is an atheistical notion, as unconsonant with facts as with
philosophy and experience. For how, it may be asked, should
this struggle after utility and usefulness, ever have ended in such
a multiplicity of rites as had the Jews, or such a complicated my-
thology as had the heathen, both of which had usages not in-
stinctive nor pleasurable, but on the contrary, extremely burden-
some. Besides, how should this striving of a worm after useful
limbs, and pleasurable sensations, ever have ended in the structure
of a human body, which is visited with pain and sickness, and
mental maladies, and liable to death ? Yes, why should animal
organization be deranged by pain, and dissolved by death, when
matter itself, by man, cannot be annihilated at all 1
If man was formed from the appetency of matter, and from
the covetings, desirings, and longings of the worm, to become a
more perfectly organized creature, why did not this perpetual en-
deavor, this imperceptible exertion, this effort of incalculable
ages, render his organized existence, equally durable, if not eter-
nal ? for surely, the aversion to death is the greatest of all aver-
sions, known either to man or beast.
If matter had the plastic power of forming itself into man, it
surely would have had the ability to have continued him in exist-
ence, so long as he pleased to live. And we are surprised to find
that this idea has not struck the minds of those who have dared
to promulgate atheistical absurdities, as well as of those who have
written in order to refute them.
A writer of this stamp even goes so far with his materiahsm, as
to maintain the opinion that ideas are material things ; whilst
Bishop Berkeley, dissents to materialism so entirely, as to assert
that there is no such thing as matter in the universe ! If both
opinions are not equally heretical, which we believe, they are
equally preposterous ; although the Bishop's notion is the easiest
6*
62 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
to confute, it being such an absurdity as every dog can bark
away.
Archbishop Tillotson obseiTed, that the gravest and wisest per-
son in the world, might be abused by being put into a fool's coat.
Berkeley, appears to us to have arrayed himself in such a gar-
ment of his own accord.
It is one thing to make an idea clear, and another to make it
pathetic, elevated or useful ; but a notion that is apparently absurd,
and neither sublime, nor beautiful, nor beneficial, is not worth
preserving, nor scarce confuting. It is worse than useless to ad-
duce Bishop Berkeley's theory against the materialists, because it
is immensely more absm'd than any thing they ever advanced.
§ 31. We view our own religion to be of such an elevated
and pure character, its principles so immeasurably transcending
all others, as to need none of those little evasions and artifices
which little commentators and sermonizers are prone to use.
The only way to insure justice to ourselves, is to do it to others.
Let not Roman Catholics, nor even Mahometans, be deprived of
all that their systems can honestly claim ; and when this is allow-
ed them, they will look with more complacency, upon that pure
and glorious stream which is ultimately ordained to water the be-
nighted regions, and sterile portions of the universe.
There is nothing which disgusts so much as to see statements,
which we know to be false, made in relation to science and re-
ligion.
The most excellent and learned commentary upon the Bible,
which we ever knew, a friend and acquaintance of ours, dropped
and dismissed, and would not read another line of, from finding
an uncandid and evasive exposition of the first verse that he
looked at. We regretted this, for the reason that we wished our
friend and professional brother, to read this excellent work. Still,
we must not blame him over much, nor censure him at all, for he
holds to the Scriptures, but not to the glasses ; and we have our-
selves just thrown down a newspaper, for the reason that we found
a misstatement in it.
The elevation, the victory of one Christian sect over another,
is at most but a partial good, for a universal evil. It is like the
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 63
elevation of one edge of a falling platform. The occupant of the
raised spot, stands higher than his fellows, but the whole platform
is falling. Union is the bond, and the only bond of safety. If
the world beholds two denominations disagreeing, one party only,
may at first stand for a fools, but the final result will invariably be,
that the same epithet is bestowed upon both ; and a worse conse-
quence will in time ensue ; the religion which they differed about
will suffer. We do not mean to insinuate that it will ever be un-
dermined ; but that its spread and progress will be impeded
;
infidels and infidelity will be increased, and the whole system will
sufi*er from the feebleness, or cariosity, or gangrenous state of a
limb of it.
§ 32. We seldom hear people ridicule what they call religion,
it is some singularity, or supposed heterodoxy, which is always
made the pretext. Piety will become a subject of raillery when
it greatly affects singularity. It is one of the marks of prudence,
not to render itself remarkable. A celebrated writer thought
that it was better to be superficial than gloomy. But a lady to
whom I read the passage, replied, that it was best to be neither
superficial nor gloomy.
We sometimes sink into melancholy, without any very evident
cause, that even ourselves can discover ; the reason of which is,
that the state of the mind depends upon a body, which is subject
to vary, and to lose its equilibrium. The clearest sky is liable to
be obscured, and the soul like the body has its fogs.
The moral world, like the natural, has its x4.pril days, in which
sunshine and showers quickly alternate. It should be remember-
ed, that the Jewish law was founded on fear, but that the new
system, is one of glad tidings and love.
Those who give their alms, with more humility than the receiv-
er accepts them, sow their pathway of life with pearls, which will
continue to shine when they have ceased to tread it.
Indiscriminate charity does little good. It is better to make a
few families comfortable, than a great number unthankful.
Such is our lot in life, that if we have friends, they are liable to
be scattered to remote regions, and sad is the hour when we are
compelled to bid a dear friend adieu.
64 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Those books have made most noise in the world, which con-
tained more paradoxies than solutions, more conjectures than
truths, more raillery than sobriety, more theories than proofs, and
more heat than light. Men of sense, have thought those works
least meritorious, which have suddenly become most popular.
But time corrects the error, and compels the majority to think
with the wise, and not with the popular.
It is sinners who cause joy in heaven, when.they repent. It
was the brother of the prodigal son, who was condemned in the
eyes of religion, for not being properly affected at the return of
the prodigal. We ought to be careful to pardon those who are
pardoned in heaven.
People avoid those who are perpetually preaching. The ser-
mons of the Great Head of the church were short, and we find
that he was at one time absent from his disciples for the space of
eight d^js, and whither, we have no account.
§ 33. It is as dangerous to receive indiscriminate advice from
doctors for the soul, as from doctors for the body. System, regu-
larity and judgment, are requisite in both cases, by inattention to
which, sinners may pass their lives in sinning and repenting, and
patients in recovering and relapsing. Violent and harsh reme-
dies, are equally to be avoided in the one case as in the other ; as
are irregularity and sudden vicissitudes. Both must be strict
without being severe, and patient without desponding.
Obstinate attachments, and blind prejudices, want of confi-
dence, looking for effects without causes, breaking rules, and not
strictly adhering to directions, without disclosing the aberration,
are equally to be avoided, by the catechumen and the patient.
There is no evil that such are not capable of committing, even
with the best intentions, who follow a blind devotion ; or who
swallow drugs by their own wayward fancies.
The physician and the divine, must each of them be cautious
in interfering in testaments and marriages ; and neither must
show much signs of hfe, except in matters relating to his own
profession.
Only the half learned and half wise, make themselves noted,
by their obstinacy, vanity, intermeddling, taciturnity, or garrulity.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 65
Was it to set an example of forbearance towards infidels, that
the Saducees, who held that they had no souls, and who neither
believed in angels nor spirits, went unreproved, unspoken to,
whilst the Pharisees were addressed in a voice of thunder 1
Such was the fact, but the reason is not obvious, and must be
left to the reader's own conjecture. We refer the reader to the
New-Testament, where he will find a woe against Scribes and
Pharisees, but none against the Saducees.
It has been said, and the saying emanated from high authority,
that a sick man who has lived a life of adversity, supports pain
and disease immeasurably better than the rich man who has lived
in affluence. But our own experience has led us to doubt this.
Poor people are not educated so well as the rich. And that for-
titude and deference, that resignation and heroism, which result
from a thorough education, are conspicuous in sickness, as well
as in war, and the other trials of life. Besides this, those who
are favored with but few personal comforts, hold on to what they
have, with a firm grasp.
A mind at ease, fearless of the event, and with confidence in
remedies, leads to unexpected recoveries.
It has been remarked, that when patients wish for death, that
they commonly recover ; and the reason may be, that their minds
are not in an anxious state about futurity.
The divine and the physician have to suffer the discouraging
neglect of the great, the impetuous contradiction of the obstinate
and ignorant, as well as the undeserved reproaches of the un-
reasonable.
Those who despise science and education, are such as are too
idle to cultivate them, or whose abilities are too mean to reach
them, or whose self-conceit puff's them up above them.
§ 34. Popularity is not so apt to be acquired by an acquaint-
ance with dead languages, as with living manners. The popu-
larity of some men rises, in proportion as the contents of their
beer barrels sink. And some work themselves out of obscurity,
as the frogs crawled into Pharaoh's palace, without any one being
able to tell how they got there.
66 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
There are some men, if they can live in notoriety, are contented
to Hve in turmoil, like the vexed spirits of the deep, which as they
emerge from the sediment of the sea, delight to whirl in the foam
which they raise on its surface.
There are some rough-hewn beings, who spend a long life in
accumulating riches, by ways and means, and modes of living,
and habits of acting, that men of feeling would not endure a
single hour for all that they are worth.
But what some one said of a certain lady, that she was of no
particular age, will apply, a little modified, to a vast majority of
men, who have no particular characters—who are the humble
servants of the great—unambitious, and unoffending, and un-
aspiring in themselves, and who aim at no higher objects than the
approbation of the dignified, and a banquet upon their superflui-
ties. Like the bees of Sampson, they aspire at no higher object
than to make honey in the bowels of a lion.*
Nine houses out of ten, are filled with this kind of population,
in every city. They are the listeners and applauders of self-
consequential characters, who could receive no applause else-
where. The laughers at their stale and good-for-nothing jokes
—
the swearers that they are always right, always courageous,
always just, always wise.
Whoever would study human nature systematically, will find
this class to fill one great niche in its fabric. The great star of
these little asterisms, like Alexander, Julius, and Napoleon, find
it easier to rule millions of men through the medium of their
passions, than to control or rule the passions of a single man.
We find men without eloquence, without the power of decla-
mation, suflicient to captivate a mob, without much sense, com-
mon or uncommon—without wit, and very meanly furnished with
either talents or virtue, who have become vastly popular, from this
one intuitive, instinctive tact of bowing to boobies.
Rivalries in wit and humor, anxiety for literary preeminence,
strife relating to distant wonders, the latest news, and matters of
fact, which have occasioned so much sensibility and solicitude,
so many sallies, and so much suUenness, have no place in com-
* Mr. Cumberland.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 67
panics where neither wit, humor, nor literature exist. That
familiarity of a low-bred, slovenly fellow, so dreadful to be en-
dured, is not felt where all are seekers for distinction in the school
of vulgarity. The fawning of a water spaniel, which a neat an'd
well dressed man would so much shudder at, would scarce be
regarded by an ostler or a fisherman.
Matter of fact men, who would debate all day and a part of
the night, or all night and a part of the day, about the name of
a person, or the date of an occurrence, may pass for geniuses
among themselves. A matter of fact, and its precise day and
date, may sometimes be of vital importance in the trial of a case,
before a court of law or equity ; whilst its investigation, in a con-
vivial company, would be entirely worthless. It might spoil a
good stoiy, and become a nuisance to the ears of every hearer.
Dr. Johnson would not hear nor heed such a missplaced interpre-
ter, nor could Sir Joshua Reynolds bear an interloper of the
kind.
But in studying to avoid particular defects, we may sometimes
incur general ones. By too closely barricading against the cold
and storm, we may shut out the light of the sun. There are
some men of good sense, who have not had any great experience
in the world, who have a very interesting and important story to
tell, who yet cannot tell it, without entering into all the details of
place, season, peculiarities of the weather, persons, sexes, the
relations and friends of the parties, and a conclusion of anecdotes
about some of the latter. Like old Pilpay, the fabler, who would
make the end of his story about the dog, a proper introduction to
one about a crow, and the end of the latter, a step towards an-
other, about a goat.
The world is made up of all sorts of people, and although it
may be interesting to know this fact, it may be very disgusting to
come into contact with more than one half of them. Still, in
order to benefit the community, or to be benefited by it, we must
endure its follies.
It is one of the best ways in the world to persuade men to be
right, to put right opinions into their minds, and then to convince
them that they had them in their previous possession. To make
them right, by assuming that they are so already. Such a method
68 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
with children, is adopted by some excellent mothers, and the pro-
gress and proficiency of their little ones, is a proof of its ex-
cellence.
Great men, great bodies of men, and little children, must all
be instructed in a way that best pleases them to receive instruction.
Even flattery may in this respect be found not to have Jbeen made
for nothing. Admonition finds a more sure conductor in praise,
than in any other vehicle, and is ofl;en repelled by any other,
whatever. There are some things which ought to incur the uni-
versal resentment of humanity ; and which to avoid, ought to
form a part of the moral education of every child, and to influ-
ence the moral conduct of every patriotic and benevolent heart.
One of these is cruelty of any kind, and especially the torturing,
or putting to unnecessary pain, a brute animal.
Dr. Johnson, supposes in his Idler, that there are among the
inferior professors of medicine, as he expresses it, a set of wretch-
es, who nail dogs to tables and open them alive, as a favorite
amusement. We believe that the celebrated writer labored under
some error of statement, from misinformation. And we venture
to assert, that no such detestable cruelty ever was practised for
amusement, by any one professing the noble art of healing. If
such scenes as he portrays ever had an existence, which we very
much doubt, they had ends in view, very different from amuse-
ment ; and must have been designed for the discovery of those
hidden springs of life which throw light upon the human anatomy,
and of course upon the mitigation of maladies, the relief of pain,
and the cure of diseases.
The physician, if such an one could be found, guilty of wan-
ton cruelty of any kind, ought to be held in abhorrence by his
professional brethren, and to be, as Dr. Johnson says, more dread-
ed than the gout or stone.
Want of knowledge, and an overstock of malice, with the aid
of exaggeration, have often raised a thunder-black cloud to over-
shadow the purest designs, and most benevolent motives.
It is a maxim, or ought to be, that he that does not govern
himself, must be governed.
In a republic, the majority must govern themselves, or else
they will soon lose the name, the nature, and form of a republic,
and decline into a monarchy.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 69
§ 35. War, and the small-pox, ought, if possible to be exter-
minated from the world ; for with both, a lying spirit always did,
and always will prevail. Lying scribblers, and trotting gossips,
are the companions of each.
Could we credit the Gazettes, in time of war, the enemy will
have invaded the country at a hundred different places all at
once. And when the small-pox breaks out in a town, report will
say that it is in every family, or that every body has been exposed.
Gen. Washington observed, that there existed in the economy
of nature, an inseparable connection between duty and ad-
vantage. But what dutjj really is, must be learned by a strict,
and careful, find systematic attention to the sound principles of
moral science.
The French, who served a short apprenticeship to liberty in
America, during the revolutionary war, went home and set up
the trade for themselves, but soon broke, and became the most
poverty-struck bankrupts, in that commodity, which the world
had ever beheld. They lacked thfe indispensable requisites of
duty, self-government, subordination, and truth. With them, the
liberty of the press was a torch of sedition, and wo-worth were
their principles. Every thing proved that they had not learned
their trade.
We had a few prominent characters of the French school, but
they were overruled by a vast majority, who had sound religion
and morality, with the most fervent patriotism.
We had great men, and not a few of them, who were not great
wits, great scholars, nor great orators. And on the other hand,
we had some who had, like Gen. Charles Lee, and Col. Aaron
Burr, these, all these accomplishments, who were not great men.
In Gen. Hamilton, we had a great man, a great soldier, and ora-
tor, with all the blandishments of his inferiors. But he failed to
follow the good rule of Epictetus, which we have mentioned, and
in consequence, he fell in a duel. We had some other patriots
who fell in the same way, from a disregard of the same admo-
nition.
The observation of the rules of Epictetus and Cleobulus,
would forever prevent dueling. We have already noticed both
7
70 THE TOXGUE OF TIME.
the rules of these wise aucients, of whom one was one of the
seven wise men of Greece.
The overdoiugs of the aspirations of hberty, maddened the
majority in France ; but here, only a few were its dehided devo-
tees. And these few were easily quelled, and made to pay their
just debts, and to quit their possession of other people's land, and
to pay the smsdlgnat of excise, rather than to be choked to death,
with the attempt at swallowing the infernal camel of rebellion.
Gen. Arnold, to be sure, ruined himself by swallowing the
camel, like a rebel, but he could not ruin his country. He fell,
but he had only Satan's will, not his power, of dragging other
fallen angels with him down to hell.
"We had no other traitor, whose name is not too ignoble to be
mentioned, except that of Arnold. He was the only Coriolanus
of his countr}'.
The generals of any other part of the world, of any other era,
since the time that Moses speaks of in the first book, verse, line,
and chapter of the Bible, fail in the comparison with those of
America.
They of all other periods and places, had more of am^bition,
or waywardness—more of self, and less of country—more of
rivalry, like Caesar and Pompey, or more of family love, like
Buonaparte—more of the unfeeling barbarism, like Charles XH..
of Sweden—more of sordid avarice, like 3Iar]borough, and more
love for parade than for tactics, like 3Iack, who could not move
without five loaded coaches of useless equipage.
Our generals, and our contests, have been marked with great
and important events, springing from small causes, and maintain-
ed by seemingly inadequate means—whilst those of other coun-
tries have been eminently conspicuous, for having been founded
upon causes more notorious, for Iiavmg been carried on with
means immensely superior, and for having ended after all, in
consequences far, immensely far, inferior to ours.
When Augustas Caesar died, he had a pack of selected specta-
tors, who gave a shout of applause as the emperor breathed his last,
in token of his brilliant and successful career, and well spent life.
There was never any need of any thing of this kind for our
American generals. The people paid them a spontaneous horn-
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 71
age, and retain their memories in the highest heartfelt veneration.
The ingratitude of the republicans of antiquity, was proverbial.
And in reading Grecian history and biography, we are forcibly
impressed with instances of it, towards their most meritorious
cliaracters.
Directly the reverse is the fact in our republic. There never
was a government more lavish of its finances, in rewarding its
officers and common soldiers.
The remnant of our revolutionary armies are distinguished, in
their old age, for the benevolence of their country. Foreigners
never have been able to reproach us with any lack of generosity
in this respect.
The London literati think, however, that notwithstanding our
boasted freedom, that there are few countries in the world, that in
reality enjoy less freedom of thought and action than ours. That
what we call freedom, will not permit an individual to leave the
stream, on the course of which all are swimming, and swim any
other way.* If this is true, there is not, nor can there be, any
charge of bonds, imprisonment, or death, to compel a man to
swim with the tide.
When a man, or a minority, deviates from the majority, it is
inseperable from the nature of liberty itself, for the latter not to
express opinions of censure, and to manifest tokens of disappro-
bation.
§ 36. It is the order of Providence, that no institution suc-
ceeds of itself, nor is any exception made in favor of those most
liberal and excellent.
Were we to judge of mankind by the reports of their opponents,
there would be no patriots in politics, no heroes in war, no learn-
ed lawyers, nor skilful physicians, nor sound divines.
Monarchists judge unfavorably of republics, and savages of all
organized institutions whatever.
Those more acquainted with the face of the rock, than with the
face of man, are apt to attach hard features to all human affairs.
The definition of friendship, by Aristotle, may have been instan-
* See London (Quarterly Review, 1831.
72 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
ced in some cases betwixt man and wife, and a few pairs of other
friends. But rarely are we permitted to observe it in private, and
never in public bodies. That philosopher, as Diogenes Laertius
relates, being asked, what is a friend 1 answered, one soul dwell-
ing in TWO BODIES,
§ 37. Love feels no load, and as it is universally needed, it is
wisely ordained to be of easy attainment. It is the connecting
chain between heaven and earth. A principle felt by the dwell-
ers in heaven above and earth below, in common. What are the
causes of joy above, at repentance of sin—what of blessings dis-
pensed to mortal man, but love 1 It has been said, and may be
said again, that love overcame the gods, or else they would not
have noticed man. Self-love has been denominated the spring
of action. But it sometimes shews itself by not acting, but by
forbearing to act. As when a man denies the loan of money to
a friend, for fear that it may mar their friendship, by his having
to enforce its payment. Self-love, again, may deter a man from
attempting to grow rich, for fear of those casualties and disasters
which produce poverty. And which, when it is contrasted with
former riches, make it doubly insupportable. It is those who
climb high trees, who break their necks if they faU. And it is
those that are highly praised, who are liable to be most vociferous-
ly censured.
§ 38. But the decay of reputation, may be owing to its never
having been deserved at all.
Wit, genius, and judgment, are seldom found to exist in the
same person at the same time. As the last becomes more matur-
ed, the former decay. And as these may have been the sole
causes of a man's ever having had popularity, he is liable to lose
his reputation, when he most deserves it.
When a general has acquired fame by his valor, he may lose it
by his discretion, its better part, as Falstaff said.
Few men are apt to confess that they have achieved out little,
because they belong to a race to whom but little power is given.
They are much more willing to adduce their want of diligence,
or the superiority of their feelings to the subject in question, than
to appeal to the imbecility of their natures.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 73
Some men talk as though they could enter into competition
with Providence itself, were they only to exert themselves.
§ 39. When we view a new and unheard of custom, which
has antiquity to boast in its favor, many are apt to conclude that
it must originally have been founded in wisdom, although they can
discern neither wisdom nor utility in it now. But when the su-
perabundance of folly, and the scarcity of wisdom are consider-
ed, it is ten to one, that such a conclusion is not a mistake.
Who in reading his Bible, will be able to find many of the rites
and practices of the Roman Catholics 1 And who would sur-
mise that dancing was one mode of worship 1 And yet it is a
principal one among the Shakers. And long were we in doubt
from what part of the Bible it could possibly be, or have been
derived. But we have since learned, that they refer to David, as
having danced before the ark, and that the child leaped in the
womb of Elizabeth at the salutation of Mary.
§ 40. It is not a little remarkable, that among the American
savages, superstition was originally engrafted upon medicine, and
not upon religion. For some of them had nothing at all of the
latter, nor no ideas of the Divinity, nor no anxiety about a future
state. But they all had an extreme anxiety about their bodily
health, and the removal of their diseases by remedies. Dancing
and gaming were among the latter. The exercise incurred in the
former, may sometimes no doubt, in cases such as rheumatism,
and in colds, be useful. But the superstition consisted in the
physician's dancing, in such cases as his patient was not able to
endure the exercise himself.
As to gaming it serves to amuse the mind, to keep the spirits
from sinking, and to take off in a measure the fear of death,
which is always prejudicial in sickness.
In fevers, both dancing and gaming are bad, but in hypochon-
drical complaints and madness, they are of utility. And we
learn from the excellent and observing Dr. Rush, that a case of
insanity was cured by playing at cards.
Those savages who had an idea of gods, supposed that their
wrath was manifested in sickness. Hence, their physicians, or
7*
74 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
medical conjurers, prescribed gaming as a means of appeasing
their anger, and of restoring health.
§ 41. From the mouth of the St. Lawrence, to the confines
of Florida, were the least traces of civihzation, and the most
striking marks of barbarism.
In Florida itself, contrary to the regions north, there was some-
thing like the semblance of a government. The authority of
their sachems being not only permanent, but hereditary. In the
former vast region, they had no tamed animals, not even dogs.
The Arab had his camel, the Tartar his mare, the Laplander
his rein-deer, and even in Kamschatka, the savage had trained his
dog to labor.
That part of America in which Canada and the United States
are situated, with the exception of Florida and the Natches, was
the most barbarous part of the New World. New Holland, how-
ever,. is equally destitute of every thing but a sim'dar state of bar-
barism, and even more so. For in that vast region there are no
traces of cultivation.* Whilst in the former the Indians did plant
and cultivate a little corn.
The two greatest means of power, comfort, and civilization,
were entirely lacking : —The use of metals, and dominion over
animals. West of the Mississippi, and south of its mouth, there
may have been more marks of civilization. But in no part of the
New World was either milk or iron known. And among some
tribes, contrary it is thought, to all other savages, they did not
even know the use of the bow and arrow.
The country was thinly inhabited, the aged were sometimes
put to death when provisions were scarce, and they unable to
assist in procuring game. Infants sometimes shared the same
fate.
Pity and thankfulness were unknown. As the savage never
gave away what he wanted himself, he did not thank any one for
a gift, thinking that it would not have been given, if its owner
wanted it himself. Like wild brute beasts, they had neither ten-
derness nor sympathy. These, even our domestic animals, and
* A late account, however, controverts this.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 75
neat stock, do manifest some tokens of. They were therefore
inferior to tamed and tutored animals, to the dog and horse, in
these respects.
The Spaniards viewed and treated the Indians, like other ani-
mals, enslaving, plundering, or kiUing them, as they saw fit. It
required a papal bull, to teach them that they were not an inferi-
or race. Until this was issued, they appear to have viewed them
as the Hebrews did the native inhabitants of Canaan, doomed to
destruction, and only made to be extirpated.
The savage character is that of harshness in all respects.
Their women were their abject, ill-treated, over-worked slaves.
They had no lap-dogs, no favorite cats, no pet squirrels, birds nor
monkeys. The impulses of moroseness, the feehngs of barbar-
ous independence, revenge, and the absolute necessity of provi-
ding food, were their incitements to action. No excursions for
amusement, no conversation for improvement, no place of tuition
or instruction for youth, was known among them. They were
only talkative when drunken. When they had sufficient food,
they would sit whole days without moving or speaking, singing or
dancing. If they had any system of education, it was the incul-
cation of fortitude. Schools, in which the art of suffering was
taught to be endured, without wincing or complaining. But even
this kind of learning, was private and voluntary, and learned by
the young barbarians without a teacher.
We are told by Dr. Robertson, that a girl and a boy would
bind their naked arms together, and put a coal of live fire so as
to lie on both. They would then watch each other, and suffering
stand and endure the pain, and vie, one with the other, which
should first complain, or attempt to shake it off*.
As the savages made no excursions except for war or food, they
supposed when the Spaniards invaded them, that they did it to
procure food for themselves, and that their own country had fail-
ed to support them.
It has been said, that the Mexicans had forebodings of an in-
vasion of their territory ; and that when the Spaniards landed, it
threw Montezuma and his subjects into a terrible consternation.
Our understandings, our systems, our knowledge, are tried with
mysterious events, in the occurrences of national, foreign and
76 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
domestic phenomena. But this is no more wonderful, than that
we are tried by mysterious doctrines, and unaccountable ordinan-
ces. The Israelites were commanded to extirpate, with fire and
sword, the natives of Palestine, both male and female, old and
young. But we see just such indiscriminate destruction take
place in wars, famines, inundations, and earthquakes, and ship-
wrecks ; so that the mysteries of command and of dispensation,
are alike inscrutable.
From what we have learned of the savages of the northern
parts of the New World, they were the most savage of all the
savage races ; so that other savages were, when compared with
them, comparatively civilized.
That our country, our heroes of the revolution, our independ-
ence, owe something to the aboriginals, by making the first se-
llers wary, acute, watchful and hardy, is obvious. Washington's
first crimpaigns, were against this monstrous race. It is thus that
physical evil, produces moral good.
That most elevated of all the virtues, Charity, could not be
exercised, was there no want in the world. Were none poor,
there would be no chance to give ; there would be none to receive
;
there would be nothing culpable in withholding ; there would be
no fault in breaking the command, for it could not be kept.
And what were reason, judgment, imagination, memory, and
the all pervading passion of self preservation, bestowed for, except
to qualify the human race, the better to avoid, the better to resist,
the better to overcome evil 1 If then there was no evil, the pswers
of man would be useless ; his arts, his arms, his skill, his pro-
fessional knowledge, would have been made in vain. He would
not dig in mines, and in mountains for gold, had it not the power
of removing the evils of poverty. He would not build the forge,
melt the ore, and laboriously produce iron, and steel, was there
not the evils before him, of bushes, and thorns, and forests, to
clear, and of a stubborn soil to break.
The distaff and the loom owe their invention to the evils of
cold, damp, and nakedness. One part of our own country owes
its inhabitants to the persecution of the Puritans, another part of
it to that of the Catholics, and a third to that of the Quakers.
Persecution is an evil, but it has had good effects in these few
instances.
CHAPTER II.
MAN, MATTER AND MIND. PROLONGATION OF LIFE. FOSSILS. RE-
MAINS OF GIANTS. SUBMARINE VOLCANOES. GEOLOGY. NIAGARA
FALLS. VULCAN JURILLO. THEORIES OF THE WORLD. FALLING
STONES. SHOOTING STARS. FORMATION OF SOLIDS IN THE AIR.
STUMPS OF TREES NINETY FEET BELOW THE SURFACE. RAFTS.
COAL BEDS. MOUNDS. SKELETONS. THE DELUGE. AMERICAN
ANTIQUITIES.
§ 1. The knowledge of truth, in ancient times, was a pre-
rogative of priests, or princes, or prophets. And in times more
modern, it was held in chains, by popes and prelates.
Ancient history consists in a great deal said about a few men
at most. Often one man is the hero of a long detail. Distinc-
tion not being confined to worth or talent, it flew in the air, like
the sea-gull over the golden mines of Peru, to alight on sand or
water.
The Jewish nation, to the time of the introduction of Chris-
tianity, had the records of their race, for a little more than four
thousand years. And still how few the names of their eminent
men ! Those who were men of genius, however, stood on the
very summit of elevation. And will so forever stand in relation
to religion. But that nation had made little progress in the arts
and sciences.
Ever since the advent of the new dispensation, the number of
noted names has rapidly increased. The system in itself in all
its features, religious and civil, is strikingly republican, and ought
to be held in the highest estimation by every lover of liberty and
religion. But to become the sun of a system, little or great, has
charms for the moderns, as it had for the ancients. And ambi-
tion has now a glorious career marked out. For nations to whom
78 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
the riches and honors of this world are denied, may Hke the Scots,
believe that they can boast of spiritual treasures, more pure, more
genuine, and more overflowing, than any nation under the whole
heaven. Or like the Romanists, they may think that the head of
their church, is the head of all the churches on earth. Or like
the Episcopalian, they may deem their king the defender of the
faith, and above the pope himself. Whilst the meek and unas-
piring Quaker, has a full assurance, that by his abjuring war,
and following peace with all men, he alone imitates the founder
of true religion.
Men's views of things are the result of their knowledge and
understanding. But time and chance happen to all men. Pas-
sions are the gales of the moral world, and like a gale at sea,
may drive the most correct and accurate mariner from his course.
Love and aversion, avarice and ambition, bigotry and supersti-
tion, courage and cowardice, riches and poverty, luck, good or
bad, friends sincere or treacherous, make men act differently,
who may be upon an exact level as to talents. Nay, they make
the same man's course very discrepant at different times, although
to others his situation may seem identical.
Office-seeking, and seeking for golden opinions from all sorts
of people, will turn a man into a monkey, and spaniel his course
of conduct. A man never elevates himself by levity or servility.
The road through the mighty main, and through the moral
world, must be in part at least, laid out by our own soundings.
Old remarks, like old charts, may only mislead the navigator. If
we lean on others, we fall when they fall. But if they stand, wc
may not stand, for the reason that it is in their power at any time
to push us down.
Old charts, like old landmarks, should however, never be
touched when correct. Nor can devious paths, which lead from
that which is strait and narrow, be even entered into with safety.
It is true that for such deviations we have great examples, but still
not the greatest of all.
Julius Caesar, would admit no deviation from the line of recti-
tude in common men, or on common occasions. Yet, when an
aspiring, ambitious man, had a crown in view, he would allow of
his breaking this salutary rule. And all great commanders of
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 79
armies, in times remote and modern, would deceive and tell false-
hoods, or employ others to tell them to an enemy. But under
the new dispensation, the exceptions to integrity cannot have any
place at all. As he that would be great, is to be the minister,
which word in the original signifies a servant.
Those men who have been the greatest of all, or whom the
world has so esteemed to be, have, like comets, appeared at great
distances apart, and like those portentous messengers, have ever
moved in eccentric orbits. Their course, their exit, and their
entrance, has been incalculable. Not Wellington himself could
calculate the rapidity of Napoleon, as he approached for the battle
of Waterloo, else had not the British general been at a ball at
the time. They neither love nor hate, nor reward nor punish,
after the manner of common men. Their violence and their
gentleness, their seriousness and their merriment, their business
and their diversions, are all peculiar. Their orbits are indefinite
and indefinable. Their perihelion and aphelion, like that of the
comet, cannot be computed. Their cast of character, their mode
of expression, the ideas which they receive, and the expressions
which they convey, all vary from those of other mortals. Mas-
tering great events, great on great occasions, they are too much
feared to be hated, and too powerful to be despised. Such na-
tures are only natural when they command and the world obeys
.
Whilst they are in the world, let their distance be never so great,
the timid and contemplative feel serious and nervous, and in their
presence, even the bold and courageous, breathe with difficulty.
The thunder that rolls over head, the lightning that flashes, the
flame that consumes, the bellowing volcano, and the bursting
earthquake, and the devastating hurricane, are their only com-
petitors in causing perturbation, unless we add the roaring lion,
and the coiling rattlesnake. Their souls are like the flash that
descends from the cloud ; their nerves like the rod of iron which
conducts it to the earth. The apportioning of equal misery to
all, is the full amount of their justice ; the fire and the sword, the
meed of their mercy.
These things argue strongly and powerfully against wars un-
dertaken from ambitious motives, and for conquest, or from any
motives except those of self defence. And there is another
80 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
source of a nature still higher, and of an authority more para-
mount and decisive, to which we might refer, were this the place
to enlarge upon the subject.
The word 2^ or/J is a contraction of wear-old. Still this world,
this old world, is always new : for its face is always presenting
new appearances. Seasons change, and nature is inconstant, and
does not always change them alike. In this respect the worlds
physical and moral agree. Both are continually presenting new
features. Lord Bacon thought, that were it not for the fixed
stars, all creation would be in a state of chaos. These keep the
system of the universe from running wild. Those simple and
beautiful principles, gravitation and attraction, keep the rolling
globe from rolling out of its place. And compel the pleiades,
and northern bear, to maintain their constant course.
§ 2. The anatomical structure of the human race, is surpri-
singly regular, and has been in all ages. The Egyptian mummy,
perhaps of antediluvian age, presents the same bony structure, as
that of the savage of the new world. The bones of the head,
the vertebrcB of the back, with their irregular shape and spinous
processes, the atlas of the neck, the little anvil and stirrup and
mallet of the ear, the lightning shaped sutures of the skull, the
eight little bones of the wrist, and the whole number, two hundred
and forty-eight bones of the whole body, have ever been found,
when examined, in surprising uniformity. No little foramma or
hole, and holes are numerous, and irregular in shape and size, is
omitted, with its little irregularities, through the bones ,of the
whole body. This regularity is also extended to the soft parts.
To the viscera, to the number of nerves, to the principal arteries,
and to the color of the blood and bde, which in health, never fail
of being the same, whether the subject be black or white.
Reason would have taught us, that as the structure of man is
as uniform as that of the heavenly bodies, that he might have en-
dured as long. And that it would have been easier for nature to
have kept the same being in life and motion, than to have stop-
ped his course, and ended his career by death, and replenished
the world with new and infant forms of the same mould and or-
ganization. But experience and observation teach the reverse of
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 81
this theory. It is these, therefore, that teach the great lesson of
mortahty, especially to those to whom revelation is unknown.
The infant and the animai have no idea of their own liability to
die.
The bones are the fixtures of the animal frame. The soft parts
turn to dust in about four years after burial, in common soils.
Some soils, from extreme aridity, however, may preserve the flesh
for an indefinite period. The traveller in the desert sands of
Egypt, Arabia, and Lybia, who meets his death and burial in a
sand flood, may remain for centuries with his frame shrivelled,
but not turned to dust.
Ice will preserve bodies forever, if it does not thaw, minimal
petrifactions are as enduring as the mountain of Ararat.
Life is motion, and total rest, the rest of the heart and lungs, is
death. Could art ensure flexibility, it might prolong motion, and
modern men might breathe as long as did Adam and Methuselah.
Keeping the joints of a petrified man limber, as well as petrifying
him by art, are modern discoveries, by an Italian. Can it ever be
extended to' the heart, cartilages of the ribs and breast 1 And if
so, the next step in keepmg man alive, and rendering his life long
as that of a tree, would be to discover some means of keeping his
blood from coagulating, and of keeping his heart irritable, so as
to be sensible of the stimulus of the blood. Paracelsus entertain-
ed the notion that he could render man immortal, but he did not
himself arrive to old age. His elixir of immortality failed, but
he was the inventor of calomel, which has removed more of hu-
man maladies than any other remedy except opium.
What the Jews say about a certain bone in the body which they
call the Zmz, is fictitious. At any rate what they say about its lo-
cation is incorrect. This bone they tell us is incorruptible and
imperishable. And that at the last day, God will make use of it
as a renewal to life, and a means of restoration at the resurrec-
tion. In fact they pretend that the body will grow from it, as a
plant grows from a seed. This bone they place between the last
vertebrse of the loins, and the os sacrum. But it so happens that
these two bones join,* and that no intervening bone is found be-
* Excefjt a thin cartilage between ihem.
8
CK6 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
twixt them. Every tyro in anatomy knows this, and the Jews
now pretend that this mu-aculous rehc, is another bone, which is
the last of all in the vertebral column,- and which is called the os
coxygis. But there is no bone of the spine but what is as per-
ishable as many other bones. The teeth are the most durable of
all the bony structures. They are bony in their interior, but then*
outward surface is covered with an enamel which prevents their
decay. These survive all other parts of the body, and remain
when all the fleshy and bony parts are crumbled to fragments and
dust. Fleshy parts sometimes become bony. The present wri-
ter has opened the body of a gentleman who died with dropsy of
the lungs, and found the great artery, or aorta, turned to bone at
its root, where it springs from the heart. There were nine pints
of water in the cavity of his thorax, which is that cavity which
contains the heart and lungs. The lower part of the right lobe
of this gentleman's lungs was turned to liver, or in technical lan-
guage, hepatized. He died suddenly. The day before his death
he came after medicine to me at my own house, a distance of a
mile and a half, alone in his carriage.
This turning of fleshy parts to bone, occurs in other cases, and
in other parts of the body, and sometimes without any disease or
detriment. Little bones sometimes form, called sesamoid bones,
because they resemble seeds, and some have supposed that one of
these was the luz of the Jews.
§ 3. In the secondary strata of rocks, three thousand species
of fossil animals have been found, not one of which is now
known to exist upon the globe. Consequently, man is not one of
them. A fossil or petrified human skeleton has been extremely
<rare. Geology, therefore, teaches that other animals preceded
man in the creation. However this may be, geologically, we find
it so scripturaDy. The fossil and petrified remains of man, have
not been entirely lacking, however ; one having been found in
Guadaloupe. And the body of a petrified Indian was found in
digging to lay the foundations of the city of Quebec.
We read in the Bible that there were giants in the earth, and
some late geological facts confirm this truth, by the discovery of
their remains.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 83
The Journal of Madrid, the Athenee, conlains a letter descri-
bing an enormous petrifaction, which was discovered by the work-
men in digging the canal of Sopena. A rock was found about
eight feet below the surface of the earth. And at the distance of
eighteen feet below this rock, and twenty-six beneath the earth's
surface, amidst argillaceous earth, was found a body in a state of
petrifaction, the bones of which resembled whitish stone. This
body was upwards of eighteen feet long, the head two feet broad,
and the breadth of the chest three feet !*
A physician and surgeon examined this body, and found it to
be a genuine petrified man, or rather giant.
§ 4. M. CuviER, of Paris, was the greatest practical geologist
which the world has ever produced. From him we learn that
there are occasionally found in the earth, to the greatest depth to
which it has been penetrated, the remains of marine animals.
And they are also found upon the highest mountains. To ac-
count for the latter, he supposes that the bottom of the sea must
have been suddenly elevated, nay, to use his own expression, in-
stantaneously so. But what he thinks more astonishing, and
quite certain is, that living creatures have not always existed on
the earth, which is agreeable to sacred history. Some of the
summits of the highest mountains are raised however, above the
shells which lie scattered high up upon them. But these summits,
he supposes to have been thrown up out of water. We must
conjecture then, that this was done by volcanic fire, which when it
had thrown up the sea bottom thus high, destroyed all animal or-
ganization, and that the mass was calcined, or crystalized, so that
no organic exuviae can be traced. Different strata, some inclined,
and some horizontal, with animal remains in each, but of differ-
ent kinds, go to prove that such sudden and tremendous catastro-
phes, have occurred at periods distant, different and distinct.
That they Avere very far apart, is evident from the animal remains
being unlike each other, and also from the dissimilarity of the
strata themselves. A new stratum was thrown up above an old
* History sacred and profane, agree that there were giants in the earth. And
we are told of Scipio Africanusthe younger, that in Spain he slew a man of
gigantic stature who was a Spaniard !
84 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
one, and settled down upon it, and became inhabited by animals.
How often this was done, geology, which is a science compara-
tively new, has not yet taught us. Nor from what depths these
strata were forced up, can the geologist decide. But M. Cuvier
thinks it probable, that the whole crust of the globe has been
moved and overturned, to a great depth, and that the early com-
motions extended deeper and more extensively, than the later
ones. That the fossil remains which are now found at immense
depths in the earth, must, if they be of land animals, once have
lived on the earth's surface, and if of sea animals, must have in-
habited the sea-bottom, is abundantly evident. The remains of
what is called the Inguadon, are found at the depth of a thousand
feet from the earth's surface.- Seventy feet is its length, ten feet
its height, and fifteen feet its girth. It is found in a sand-stone
rock, and this rock is composed of, or incorporated with, vegeta-
ble matters, shells and fish. And as Professor Silliman observes,
the man who is capable of believing that this creature was form-
ed there, is capable of believing any thing, with or without proof.
It must have once lived and breathed, and moved its hulk like
carcass upon this our rolling globe.*
It is supposed to have been an animal of the lizard kind, its
shape being like that species of animal. The giant, of eighteen
feet in height, would have been but a single mouthful for this
seventy feet monster. Which, however, the mammoth might
have destroyed, by a single thrust of its tusks, with his giant din-
ner within its capacious maw. But should we inquire how such
monsters lived, and upon what they fed, and how and why they
became extinct, we should find no one to answer us. Nor as to
why they were created at all.
We have seen that the surface of the world has frequently
changed, and that its diff*erent surfaces produced different races
of animals, or at least supported them. Geologists have not been
able to form any plausible theory, to account for the phenomena
* The head of the most colossal creature of which any indications have eveir
been found, was lately dug up at Rhenish Hesse, in Germany. It measured
six feet in length, by three feet and a half in breadth. A humeral bone six feet
long was found near it, weighing two hundred pounds. They were twenty-
eight feet below the surface.
'
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 85
of the earth, either by water, by fire, or by hurricanes, nor by all
combined. Nor will any known chemical agency help them out
of their dilemma. We must help them a little ourselves, by
supposing these immense lacertee, in droves as numerous as ants,
helped to raise the crust of the earth, to throw up hills, and to
elevate mountains, by their operations in the sea. Amphibious
by nature, when they found no land, or an insufficient quantity of
it, we may conjecture, that they raised the sea-bottom into emi-
nences, reaching above the surface of the waters. And that the
sands thus elevated were in a course of time immens », some of
it crystalized into granite rocks. And then we may call in the
aid of moles, and of ants, large in proportion, as is the inguadon
to the little lizard, to assist in accounting for the earth's other in-
equalities. And thus go on, and attribute mountains, and valleys,
and caves, whose phenomena cannot be imputed to fire and water,
to the agency of animals and insects, of inguadon and mammoth,
dimensions at least comparatively.
§ 5. Conclusions have been too hastily drawn upon some
geological subjects. We must wait for more facts. Inductive
philosophy should descend from generals to particulars, instead
of reversing: this method, and still continuing the name. Man
has been supposed to be of modern origin. But we read that
there were giants in the earth, of whose antiquity we have no
precise account. And that the remains of Goliah's, and of the
sons of Anak, or the similitudes of their race, are occasionally
found in a fossil state, must be admitted. Of one instance of this
kind, we have the best testimonials before us, even the statement
under oath, of a respectable and credible eye witness, Capt.
James Allen.
In the spring of 1807, Capt. Allen was master of the ship Ju-
piter, of Philadelphia, on a voyage up the Mediterranean. In
the month of May of that year, he lay a considerable time at the
port of Girgenti, the ancient Agrigentum, in the island of Sicily.
Its situation is about twenty leagues from Palermo, and sixty
leagues south-west of Mount ^Etna. Whilst there, he was in-
formed that some human skeletons, of vast size, had been dug
from the ground about three miles distant.
8*
86 THE TOx\OUE OF TIME.
Digging into the earth to obtain sulphur, is a common employ-
ment of the people of the island of Sicily, and they had here dug
to the depth of one hundred and seventy feet ! when they came
to a marble wall, adorned with hieroglyphics. When they were
attempting to remove a part of this wall, it fell into a hollow place -
or cell, upon two marble coffins, which contained the gigantic
bones. The falling of the wall so deranged the place, that it
could not be told whether it was erected for a place of sepulture,
or whether it was a part of some building of another kind. And
although one of the skeletons was much broken by the accident,
very happily the other was entire, except the loss of a small part
of one of the bones of the leg.
Capt. Allen placed the bones of the most .perfect skeleton in
their proper position, and found the skeleton to be eleven feet and
four inches in length, Italian measure, which is equal to about ten
and a half feet English ! Capt. Allen deseended to the bottom
of this deep excavation, and carefully examined the hieroglyphics,
which he says were engraved in the most curious manner, on the
wall. The boxes or coffins, were also ornamented with hierogly-
phics. A friend of Capt. Allen, Mr. Backus, was induced tore-
quest Capt. Allen to make oath to these facts, for the satisfaction
of those who might see the account, and who were strangers to
his character. His character and credibility being such, that
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 87
where he is known, that his naked certificate or assertion would
be received as soon as his affidavit. Mr. Backus thought this ac-
count important, as a confirmation of Scripture history.*
What we have to regret is, that Capt. Allen did not take a copy
of the hieroglyphics. A regret which we deem will meet with
many responses. Capt. Allen tells us that the head of the skele-
ton, including the skull and jaws, were about the dimensions of a
two gallon pail or bucket. The diameter of the thigh bone, he
supposed to be about four English inches. The marble blocks
and slabs of this subterranean wall, so curiously ornamented with
hieroglyphics, might probably now be obtained for the inspection
of the scientific and the curious, by a vessel visiting Girgenti.
The earth through which the workmen descended to these
bones, was all made earth. It appeared to be composed of sea-
mud, filled with the shells of oysters, scollops, and other sea
shell-fish, all of which were of uncommon size.
It is worthy of notice, that the Cyclops, a race of men of
gigantic stature, were referred, by the ancients, to the very region
where these bones were found : —the western parts of Sicily.
But whence was the origin of one hundred and seventy feet of
earth over these bones, their coffins, their tomb and the hierogly-
phics 1 Surely there are no causes now in operation, unless they
be the occasional eruption of volcanoes, which can be brought to
bear upon the subject. Unless, indeed, we make the world as
many millions of years old, as we now make it centuries. And
that the superincumbent deposit was not of the usual volcanic
origin, is evident, for it was not lava, but earth and shells. And
again, it was thirty leagues from Mount iEtna, which was the
nearest volcano. And were we to bring in for aid, a transient
eruption at the spot, why were not the marble walls, the coffins
and the bones thrown out of their places, and ruined 1 The
subject is certainly one which has its difficulties, but are they in-
surmountable ] I think not.
We have only to suppose that a submarine volcano broke out
near this part of Sicily, at some remote period, which threw on to
the island this immense superstratum of mud and shells, of one
* See Med. Rep. Hex. iii. Vol. 3, pa. 14.
88 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
hundred and seventy feet in thickness. Vesuvius sometimes
throws out mud in modern times, without vitrifying it, or turning
it into proper lava, or even soil.
And of the fact that volcanos may break out beneath the sea,
however mysterious, we have abundant proof, and shall presently
give an instance. But we have, in this case, to infer that if an-
other island was thrown up near to Sicily, or if an addition to the
latter was made, that it afterwards sunk, but left the strata over
this ancient tomb, as a memorial of the catastrophe.
§ 6. In the instance in which we are about to give, the island
or shoal that was thrown up, afterwards sank, and disappeared.
It was about half a league, or two miles from the shore. Had it
been nearer, some of the volcanic matter might have been thrown
on to the island of St. Michaels, near which it happened, and
thus have remained as a memorial of the event.
The occurrence of this submarine volcano, took place in 1811,
in the month of January. It was preceded by earthquakes, and
on the 31st of that month, smoke and flames were seen issuing
from the sea, and as one of the witnesses and writers expresses
it, a most awful and tremendous explosion of smoke and flame
issued from the watery element.
Along with the smoke, and fire, and flame, the same writer says,
issued cinders, ashes, and stones of immense size. Large quan-
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 0^
titles of dead fish, and some of them nearly roasted, and others
as if boiled, floated on the surface, towards the shore.
The wind was blowing a gale from the southward a part of the
time, which carried the smoke over the land ; the sea was ex-
ceedingly agitated, and the surf broke on shore with frightful
violence, even to the 22d of February.
All the terrors of the phenomenon, which excessively terrified
and dismayed the inhabitants, did not last the whole time, but
smoke and flames were seen to issue from the spot, the 17th of the
succeeding June. Vessels, when they first discovered it, at sea,
supposed that a naval combat between two belligerent vessels was
going on, and then, from the immensity of the smoke, that two
fleets were engaged.
It is wonderful indeed, that the part of the ocean in which
this volcanic eruption took place, was from seventy to eighty
fathoms deep. This was asserted by fishermen, and at first hard-
ly credited, but afterwards, Capt. Thomas, of the ship Otis, from
Lisbon to New-York, spoke an English armed brig, that had for
a considerable time been stationed at St. Michaels, the comman-
der of which had sounded, not a great while before, the very spot
whence the eruption proceeded, and found the true depths, from
seventy to eighty fathoms.
Inflammable air, when it issues from water, and comes in con-
tact with the atmosphere, will take fire and burn spontaneously.
But the smoke, the boiling of the sea, and the throwing up of
large stones, together with cinders and ashes, must be referred to
a fire of bitumen, sulphur, and other combustibles beneath the sea
bottom, which produced steam. This can only account for the
first stages of the phenomena, which occurred in January and
February, and which are related in the letter of Mr. Hickling, to
J. B. Dabney, Esq., the American Consul, and by Mr. Andrew
Adam, of St. Michaels, in a letter to his brother in London.
Afterwards, when this submarine volcano was seen in June, by
Capt. Thomas, and by Mr. Henry Neil, who came to New-York
in the same vessel, the throwing up of stones, ashes and cinders,
appears to have subsided. And the flame, and hissing or roaring
noise, which were described by Mr. Neil, to Dr. Mitchell, were
so THE TONGUE OP TIME.
caused by the burning of inflammable gas, when the gas aprived
at the surface of the water.
This process is imitated upon a small scale, artificially, by
chemists, as we have witnessed ourselves.
Capt. Farwell, who arrived at Boston, from St. Ubes, witnessed
the phenomenon of smoke and the throwing up of large columns
of water, the 18th of June, five months after the eruption first
began.
St. Michaels is one of the Azores, which are situated in lati-
tude between thirty-six and forty, N. The Azores are also
called the Western Isles.
It is to be noticed that the throwing up of the inflammable air
and carbonic matters, when seen in June, by Capt. Thomas and
Mr. Neil, were not constant, but in intermitting pulses, of from
five to twenty minutes apart. Capt. Thomas was in sight of the
eruption for nearly twenty-four hours, and described the smoke,
which was black, and the flames, as rising some hundreds of feet
into the air.*
§ 7. But in relation to giants and gigantic animals, we must
not forget the bu*d whose claws, or toes, were eighteen inches
long, as ascertained by the tracks, lately discovered by professor
Hitchcock, on the banks of Connecticut river.
Birds of the size which such feet would indicate, might fly to
mountain heights, with tigers, and bears, and lions in their claws !
And thus we may account for petrifaction of animal bones, upon
mountain crags, which quadrupeds could not reach, and in
crevices which neither they, nor the bird itself, could enter. It
being well known that when birds of prey feed, that they choose
the highest objects to perch upon, from whence the bones of their
victim may drop into holes and fissures below, or be found in
.piles where the highest trees stood, although these trees may have
long since disappeared by the desolating hand of time.
That there were clefts in some rocks, before they were rent at
the crucifixion, we learn from Moses having been placed in one
of them, to hide him from the divine presence, as the Lord pass-
ed by.t
* See Med. Rep. Hex. iii. Vol. 3, p. 96.
t Gen. xxxiii, 22.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 91
In relation to the bones of men and animals, we cannot but
admire the height and depth of creating wisdom. Every little
eminence, or depression, process, apophysis, bump, cavity, aceta-
bulum, or foramen, or fissure, having in different classes of ani-
mals, a different shape, and in the same class of animals, the same
shape.
So that the class of animals, to which even the fragment of a
bone belonged, could be determined by M. Cuvier. And he
could thus determine whether that class of animals was in exist-
ence now, or had disappeared from the face of the earth.
Such a minute knowledge of comparative anatomy, was never
known in the world before. And to it, the world is much indebt-
ed ; for as M. Cuvier observes, skeletons are rarely found in a
complete state. The bones being detached and distant, owing
to different birds or beasts having fed upon the same carcass, and
each one carrying off a different limb or bone to pick. Besides,
the bones of some animals were broken by the powerful jaws and
grinders of hyenas, in order to extract the marrow from them,
and are only found in fragments ; whilst the decomposing hand
of time, has detached the softer appendages of the same bone
from itself.
§ 8. But we need not resort to animals of monstrous growth,
to the mammoth, which we have seen the skeleton of, and within
the inclosure of whose ribs, thirteen men sat and dined. Or to
the ingLiadon, of which we are told, by professor Silliman, as being
seventy feet in length. We say that we need not resort entirely
to these, and to other immense animals, for immense geological
changes and structures. Although, they undoubtedly had a share
in these changes, proportioned to the immensity of their size.
We know that animals of sizes minute, have existed, and still
exist, in such myriads as to give rise to structures immense.
Coral islands and coral reefs are formed by httle worms, or
vermicles, vermes zoophyta. These creatures, each secreting the
size of a sand or two of coral, and uniting the portions of their
labor together, form new islands in the sea, and increase the
dimensions of those islands already formed.
^ THE TONGUE OP TIME.
The mariner has found, by the loss of his ship, the pernicious
efforts of these httle creatures. Ships strike and bilge, and are
lost upon coral islands, on the way of the coral formation upwards
out of the ocean, but not so far up as to be visible. And perhaps
so far down, when the preceding navigator made his soundings,
as not to have been reached—such an instance having been late-
ly ascertained. And thus vessels are wrecked, where charts indi-
cated no danger. Shallows, and shoals, and reefs exist, where
none were formerly known, nor could have been known ; because
they were not there, they did not exist.
It seems to be the habit of these coral insects to vermiculate
upwards, with their structures, from the ocean depths. But
when they reach the surface they do not advance much, if any,
above high water. Coral islands, therefore, if they have a soil,
owe it to other causes—to the ordure of bii'ds, roosting and feed-
ing upon them—to sea weed, growing and being cast upon their
shores and surface—and to the stranding of whales, sharks, and
other monsters of the deep. And sometimes soil is earned in
boats from one place where it can be procured, to rocky islands
where it is lacking.
Of this last process, the late Commodore Oliver H. Perry, a
family relative of ours, referred the writer to examples in the Medi-
terranean, which had fallen under his own immediate observation.
§ 9. That the sea once covered all the land which is now dry,
is very generally admitted by scientific men, and is universally
admitted by geologists.
It is agreeable to sacred history, that before the flood of Noah,
water covered over the face of the whole earth. Moses, in the
first chapter of the Bible, tells us, that God said, let the waters
under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the
dry appear. The word land, after dry, in our translation of the
Bible, is put there by translators, and is known to every
philologist, not to have any word answering to it, or synony-
mous with it, in the original.
There was, therefore, nothing dry in the universe, until the
waters were gathered together, and then the dry appeared. The
translators of our English Bible, have supposed it to have been
THfi TONGUE OF. TIME. 93
dry land^ and so they have rendered the dry, dry land, and very
properly so, as we ourselves suppose ; we having full general
confidence in the truth and verity of the forty-seven learned men
who made the translation, by order of King James the first, of
our present Bible.
But upon a subject involving such vital considerations as the
present, relative to which a professor in one of our theological
seminaries, and a minister, has been accused by another profes-
sor of promulgating principles fraught with atheism, we have
deemed it our duty to be a little critical.* We hope not hyper-
critical. And as the dry, a little further along, in the same chap-
ter, is called Earth, and the gathering together of the waters Seas,
we cannot, on the whole, object to the addition of the word land,
made by those who translated the Bible.
What we wish particularly to call attention to, is, that no land
nor earth, nor nothing dry, was seen, until the waters were re-
moved, or gathered together.
§ 10. And in the next place, we wish to impress it on the
mind of the geological reader, that although there is an account
of the creation of the heavens and earth, in this first chapter of
Genesis, yet that there is no account of the creation of water.
And if he who reads the chapter, reads it with great care and
attention, he must admit that something had been created pre-
vious to the creation of what Moses relates in the first chapter of
Genesis. This is an important point, as some geological fea-
tures of the interior earth, cannot be accounted for, nor some of
its external phenomena explained, by the account given by Mo-
ses. Suppositions have therefore been made, one of which is,
that the seven days were not diurnal days of twenty-four hours
each, but that they were of much longer periods, and consisted of
a thousand years each.
But such a supposition cannot be made to agree with the Crea-
tor's having rested on the seventh day, and constituted it the
Jewish Sabbath. It would make the sabbath to occur only once
in seven thousand years, and to last a thousand years when it
did occur
!
* We here refer to Stewart of Andover, and Hitchcock of Amherst.
9
94 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Water, then, appears to have been created before the period at
which Moses begins ; as it is mentioned in the first chapter of
Genesis, without any mention being made of its creation in that
chapter, or at that time, or at any other time.
And as to the earth, at its first elementary creation, or the crea-
tion of its substance, it was without form and void.
The act then, to which Moses refers, evidently seems to be, as
to the earth, the reducing of it to form, and the clearing its surface
of water, so that the dry might appear, and the fitting of it for
a habitation of land animals, and man. This was done in the
six diurnal days mentioned by Moses.
Previous to this, we suppose that stones, mountains, and sili-
cious particles existed, immersed in, or covered over with water.
For of these, we read nothing about either having been created
in the six days ; nor of water itself, as before observed, at any time.
How many millions of ages, stones, mountains, gravel, the
ores of metals, silex^ sulphur, alumina, lime, magnesia, barytes,
strontian, zincon, glucine, yttria, thorina, arsenic, saline substan-
ces, and metals may have existed with water itself, we cannot
decide, for the Bible does not.
Of these, none of these, does Moses give us any account of
their having been created in the six days. We know that many
of these substances, however, are reckoned among the earths.
But not one of them do we admit to be the eartli to which Moses
refers. And we would here limit the word earthy to the surface
of the globe, to the soil or upper surface of the earth, in which
trees, and plants, and seeds grow.
This is the agricultural sense in which the term earth is used, and
this we must allow to be the sense in which Moses used it. He
not giving us any account of the creation of subterranean substan-
ces, such as beds of coal, mines of salt, volcanoes, or fire, or wa-
ter or air.* And that the deep interior of our planet is a burning
fire, is now admitted by geologists ; for the deeper the earth has
been penetrated, the higher it raises the thermometer, and the
warmer the temperature grows.
Indeed, about two hundred chimneys have been reckoned up,
which emit the smoke, steam, cinders, lava, and ashes, from the
'^
Unless air is indicated by the S-piril of God, moving on the waters.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 95
interior. These are volcanoes, which are now, or have been, in
active operation, throughout the world, as chimnies to the globe.
§ 1 1. What an immense work might the waters at Niagara falls
be made to do. Machinery might be erected there, to bore and
penetrate the earth to an unlimited extent, even down to its sub-
teraneous fires ! ! There being water power sufficient for any
imaginable purpose, which now roars away its time in idleness.
We were more astonished at the immense quantity of water,
than by the height, or any other phenomenon of the Falls, when
we paid this wonder of the world a visit.
The expense of such an undertaking would be less than that of
one of Buonaparte's great campaigns, and harmless to human
life.
What an immense acquisition to the science of geology, and
to human knowledge in general, might be realized.
Besides, we might anticipate that the precious minerals brought
to light might go far to defray the cost, and even to enrich the
undertakers.
Let America do a work which shall exceed all the wonders of
the Old World, and draw down upon her the eyes of all nations.
Machinery might be erected there, which with sufficient length
and strength of cable and chain, might drag all the canal boats
from the Hudson to Buffalo, and sea vessels from Montreal
96 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
through lake Ontario, to Lewistown ; and by a canal around the
falls to Buffalo, and into lake Erie itself. And also propel the
cars on the railroads.
§ 12. How are we to account for earthquakes, except we re-
fer them to the action of internal fires '?
We are puzzled with the query how fire can burn without air,
but we do not know that this is the fact. Although, when volca-
noes have burst out, and thrown up islands in the midst of the
sea, we are at a loss to know how the atmospheric air found its
way into the heart of the earth, when covered with water, and
why the water did not extinguish the burning mass ?
Our only resort is, in such a case, to conjecture that there is
somehow and somewhere, a subterranean admission of air.
When new volcanoes break out in the vicinity of old ones, we
refer the descent of the air down the crater or chimney of the pre-
vious one.
As to water not extinguishing volcanoes which break out from
beneath the ocean, the reason must be, that the intensity and im-
mensity of the fire, decomposes the water, into oxygen and hy-
drogen gases, which gases when ignited in contact, make the fire
still hotter. No method being ever yet discovered, to produce a
more intense heat, than by the ignition of these gases.
We are told by the Baron Humboldt, that the vulcan Jurillo*
which burst out and was formed on the 29th of September, 1759,
in the night, was preceded by earthquakes, from the June before.
The volcanic mount Jurillo rose one thousand six hundred and
ninety-five feet higher than the old plain around its base. It
bursting out in the midst of a plain, and rising thus high, in that
short space.
This volcano is forty-two leagues from any other volcano,
thirty-six leagues from the sea coast, and six day's journey from
the city of Mexico, the capital of New-Spain, in which country
the volcano is situated.
A tract of land, as the Baron tells us, rose up, of from three to
four miles square. Those who saw the catastrophe, told him that
the flames issued forth for more than half a league square. Frag-
ments of burning rock were thrown up to an immense height.
* This volcano goes by another name in some authors.
THE TONtSUE OF TIME. 97
The softened surface of the earth boiled and swelled like the sea,
when agitated by the winds. Two rivers precipitated themselves
into the burning fierj chasm, but so far from allaying the fire, it
burnt with greater violence, by decomposing the water, into oxy-
gen and hydrogen gases.
That water finds its way to the fires of Mount Vesuvius, seems
proved by mud being sometimes thrown out at its crater, during an
eruption.
The rivers which the Baron Humboldt describes as falhng into
the fiery furnace of the vulcan Jurillo, at its formation, were
probably small ones, and the quantity of water which they afibrd-
ed was therefore the easier decomposed. But in cases of volca-
noes breaking out from beneath the sea, we are astonished at their
not being immediately quenched when they break through the
crust of the sea-bottom.
We must then suppose, either that the quantity of burning ma-
terials is immense, or that the propelling power pushing the melt-
ed lava upwards, prevents the ingress of the water. Or in the
third place, that that portion of water admitted, is immediately
extruded, or decomposed into the gases of hydrogen and oxygen,
which are but fuel to the fire.
§ 13. There have been many conjectural theories of the world,
at different eras, and by men of genius.
TV^iRTON, who was a believer in revelation, believed the earth
to have been formed from a comet.
Leibnitz, supposed from the numerous appearances of fire
and fusion that it presents, that the earth was once a sun, and hav-
mg burnt out, it became the earth.
BuFFON, who makes all the heavenly bodies fragments broken
off from the sun, would include the world also in the number.
WiDEBURG, supposes tlic earth to have been originally a spot
on the sun.
Professor Hitchcock, supposes that granite is both the high-
est and the lowest of all the rocks, and that no other kind of rock
is found either above it or below it. And that the granite moun-
tains were thrown up by the power of fire, in a fused state, and
crystalized on the surface of the earth.
9*
98 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
But to this theory of Hitchcock some pretty plausible objections
present themselves. As first, that granite is found crystalized,
deep in the earth. And second, that many granite mountains,
and indeed, we believe by far the greatest number, have no craters,
and therefore cannot be identified as of volcanic origin. And
third, that stones falling from the heavens, or meteoric stones are
not granite.
Professor Hitchcock thinks that all rocks are the result of
secondary causes, and of such causes as are now in existence.
We cannot coincide with this opinion. But believe that granite
formed a principal part of the nucleus of the globe, before the
earthy surface was created upon it for the production of plants,
and for the habitation of animals.
But all the theories adduced, give us no account of the forma-
tion of water, nor no one of them, nor the Bible itself.
We believe that seas and oceans were formed before the moun-
tainous and rocky nucleus of the globe ; and that the latter was
precipitated in a state of fusion, or extreme heat, into the watery
abyss below. And thus we account for the cracks, fissures,
broken, sharp and angular points, and fragments of rocks, stones
and gravel, so universally conspicuous in granitic tracts of
country.
No one can be consistent and reasonable, and still entertain the
opinion, that the earth is either a sun burnt out, or an extinguish-
ed comet, or a piece broken off from the sun, and yet suppose
that it had seas upon its surface, when it was precipitated into its
present location.
§ 14. We know of no substances ever having fallen far from
above except rocky ones. And there have been so many of these,
and their descent from above has been so well authenticated, that
no one now calls in question the fact of meteoric, or lunar stones
falling to the earth. Two instances of this kind have occurred
in the state of Connecticut within the last thirty years. The im-
age which the men of Ephesus worshipped, as mentioned in the
Acts, because it fell down from Jupiter, probably had some help
of the priests to shape, and form it into an image. But that the
raw material might have fallen from above, in form of a meteoric
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 99
Stone, the present state of our knowledge of similar events, will
justify us in fully admitting.
Some of these aerolites, have reached the earth whilst yet
warm. And however involved in intricacy the particular spot
may be from which they emanated, we incline to the opinion that
the nucleus of the earth may have had the same original.
Secondary limestone had its origin from animal exuviae ; from
shells, bones, horns, and other animal recrements. Hence it
abounds with petrified animals or parts of animals.
We have ourselves examined a portion of the mass of stone
which fell from the heavens in the town of Weston, in the state
of Connecticut, in December, 1807.* And we have a list before
us of meteoric stones having fallen, with the places and periods
at which they fell ; which were as follows : At Ensisheim in
1492, at Mort in 1750, at Aire in 1769, at Juliac in 1790, at
Sienna in 1794, at Benares in 1798, at L'Aigle ip 1803. And
we may add, at Norwich, in Connecticut, in 1836 ; at St. Jer-
maine in 1808 ; in Italy the same year.
The chemical examination of these aerolites has discovered no
new principles. Nothing has fallen with them from the heavens,
which was not in, or upon the globe before. And this goes to
confirm the hypothesis, that the nucleus of our orb, may have
descended from the same source as these stones.
We are aware that the experiments of Margraff*, Boyle and
Boerhaave, detected a small quantity of earth in rain water.
Which is not wonderful, when we consider that the waters of the
earth ascend in vapors and water-spouts, and form clouds, which
are precipitated in rains.
But this theory cannot apply to the formation of meteoric
stones, although such an attempt has been made by Dr. Mitchell.
We consider them to have been little miniature worlds, like our
* David B. Warden, Esq. Consul General of the U. S. at Paris, observes,
that pieces of this stone weighed from six to one hundred pounds. He observ-
ed that the sharp parts of it cut glass. He analysed it with much skill.
The marks of recent fire, were considered by Professor Silliman as marking
the character of this meteoric mass of stone. It was of a dark hue, with while
streaks or veins, which Mr. Warden considered white iron. See M. R. for
1810, p. 194.
100 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
own, with fire and combustibles in their centre, which blew them
up, and that the broken fragments fell upon our planet.
The mass of stone at Ensisheim, in Germany, is called thunder
stone ; its weight is said to be upwards of two hundred pounds.
A piece of the mass was analyzed by Professor Barthold. It was
composed of sulphur, iron, magnesia, alumine, lime, and silex.
The iron and sulphur, were the smallest in quantity, and lime
the largest.
By its name it indicates that it fell in time of a thunder storm,
or that a single clap, as in other instances, or a similar sound to
thunder, accompanied its fall. The following instance is more
recent, and was observed and recorded, with care and accuracy
in France, at the time, April 26, 1803. It is given by C. Biot,
tnember of the National Institute, in a letter to the French minis-
ter of the Interior. Its authority is therefore indisputable. A
fiery globe of brilliant splendor, was observed moving with great
rapidity through the atmosphere. It was seen at Caen, Alencon,
and a great many other places in the vicinity, but fell at L'Aigle.
Some moments after it was first observed, there was heard at
L'Aigle, and in the country round, for more than thirty leagues, in
every direction, a violent explosion, which lasted five or six min-
utes. At first there were three or four reports, like the firing of
cannon. This was followed by a noise like the discharge of
musketry. A dreadful rumbling succeeded, which might be com-
pared to an earthquake, or to the beating of a vast number of
drums. The air was calm, and the sky serene at the time. But
there was a small cloud, at a great elevation in the atmosphere,
from which the noise seemed to proceed. This cloud appeared ta
lie still, and not to move at the time of the phenomenon. It lay
to the N. N. E. of the city of L'Aigle. This cloud was noticed in
various places and hamlets around, as from it proceeded, besides
the artillery reports, already mentioned, a hissing or whizzing
noise, like that of a stone discharged from a sling. In the canton
over which the cloud hovered, for about two leagues and a half
in length, and for nearly a league in breadth, mineral masses fell,
which resembled the meteoric stones which have fallen in other
places. Not by any means so thick as to cover the whole surface
of the earth, but at difibrent distances apart. The stones fell
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 101
with the hissing sound already mentioned. The district in which
they fell was marked out by the stones, in something of an ellip-
tical form. The greatest length or dimension of which, was from
northAvest to southeast. A direction in which all or most moun-
tains run.
The French writer describes the declination to have been of
about twenty-two degrees. And what he thinks to have been a
remarkable result is, that the direction which the meteor must
have followed, is exactly that of the magnetic meridian.
The largest stones fell first, which was obviously owing to their
having been the heaviest. The largest of all these stones weigh-
ed seventeen pounds and an half. The smallest which the writer
saw, weighed about two gros, which he tells us is the thousandth
part of the former.* All this happened on a bright day at about
one o'clock in the afternoon.
But a more extraordinary aerolite phenomenon occurred in
another part of France, about five years afterwards. It would
seem that France is particularly liable to hail storms, which some-
times do great damage to the vineyards and growing products of
the farmers. And in consequence, they have in that kingdom,
insurance companies, which insure against damages done by
hail ; which we never heard of elsewhere. The French therefore
perhaps pay more attention to every thing relating to hail storms
and hail stones, than the inhabitants of any other nation—which
may account for the present discovery about to be noticed.
At St. Germaine, a squall from the west was accompanied with
thunder, lightning, rain, sleet and hail. The mean size of the
hail stones exceeded that of hen's eggs. Seventy-five panes of
glass in one house were broken in seven minutes, although a
high row of trees sheltered the windows. Curiosity led to the
collection of a parcel of these hail stones ; one of which appear-
ing darker than the rest, it was broken open, and a porous brown-
ish stone, of an irregular shape, measuring ten lines by six, was
found inside of it. The surprise of the persons present was un-
equalled. As these stones which were found in the hail stones,
became dry, they lost their brownish color and became white, re-
* About 105 grains.
102 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
sembling a piece of chalk which had been rolled bj the waters.
More of these chalk stones were found in other hail stones,
which were collected, and lodged with the magistrate of St. Ger-
maine, in France, whilst in the state in which they fell ; that is,
with the hail stone surrounding the chalk stone. The weight of
one of these chalk stones was eighty-nine grains. The grain of
the stones was very fine and tender. The raspings, like chalk,
and carbonate of lime, effei-vesced with acids. These stones fell
July 31, 1808, being Sunday. Others fell the same day at Rouen.
It has been very justly remarked, that they had nothing in com-
mon with other meteoric stones, which have fallen elsewhere, as
in Germany, France, and America. All these latter bore marks
of electric heat, or of volcanic fusion, or of a disrupting blast.
In fact of fire in some form.
We may here allude to the natural tendency which thmgs have,
of the same specific gravity, to find the same location. The at-
tempt has been made to account for the carbonate of lime being
found in hail stones, by supposing that the fine particles of the
lime was in the water. That the water freezing, made the hail
stone, and that the particles of lime in it, made the chalk stone,
by settling and being compacted together.
If this explanation is admissible, in this instance, it surely
cannot be extended to other meteoric stones. For in the very
next instance which we shall give, the stones fell from above,
burning hot, and reached the earth in the same state. This hap-
pened in Italy, within the limits of the ancient states of Parma,
on the 19th of April, 1808. The sky was clear, except a few
ash colored clouds at the time, and the weather serene. The in-
habitants of several villages first heard two loud reports, like those
of a cannon. These were followed by other reports, which those
who heard them, compared to the thumping together of boxes.
These thumping sounds were very near together, and lasted more
than a minute. Then succeeded a sound of a duller and more
indistinct kind, during which burning hot stones fell to the earth,
and some of them penetrated its surface to the depth, as we are
told, of several decimetres.
The rapid fall of the stones produced a whistling sound, which
those who heard it, compared to a stone whirled from a sling.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 103
The appearance of one of these stones picked up at Pieve, is de-
scribed as that of an oblong square with the angles rounded off.
Its surface being uneven and cavernous, but vitrified. Its color
blackish brown. It struck fire with steel. The inside was ash
colored, with small points of a blackish hue, and some small spots
which were, or appeared to be, metallic. Of these metallic spots
some were of a whitish yellow, and lamellar. Others were more
compact, of a tin color, globular, and acted upon the magnetic
needle. Indeed, the mass itself was magnetic. The weight of
this stone was two Piedmont pounds. It was a compound of sili-
cious earth fifty parts, oxyd of iron twenty-eight, magnesia nine-
teen, oxyd of nickel two and a half, oxyd of manganese, one and
a half, oxyd of chrome one, and of sulphur four, total one hun-
dred and six. The several products of the analysis, weighing six
parts more than the whole mass, that was subjected to experiment.
This proves that much precision was used by Professor Guidotti,
who performed the chemical operations. The small increase in
weight was imputed, and no doubt correctly, to the addition of
oxygen to the iron from the atmosphere, during the process.
We do not know that the chemical analysis of any stone upon
the earth's surface, or which has been dug from its bowels, pre-
sents precisely the same results as this meteoric stone. Still all
the products are well known as belonging to our planet, and it is
as well known that the products of meteoric stones do not agree
among themselves, in all cases. Mr. Guidotti, who was professor
of chemistry at Parma, thought that these productions were form-
ed in the atmosphere, from earthy and metallic substances, which
are, as he supposed, incessantly floating there. But from whence
then were derived the heat, and the loud cannon like reports 1
These the professor leaves out of the question. Or at any rate,
he leaves them out of his solution of the question. We incline to
think that the phenomena of electricity must be called in, to ac-
count for these. And that as some meteoric stones are inclosed
in hail, whilst others come down to the earth " burning hot," that
we must look to some source different from earthy and metallic
particles rising from the earth, and floating in the air, for their
origin.
104 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Allowing that these stones were thrown from the moon or sun,
in a volcanic eruption, the distance is too immensely great for
them to reach the earth, and to retam the heat which they imbibed
there. Especially, as they would have to travel through a region
of intense cold, on their way here. Their heat must therefore be
accounted for in some other mode, if it could be proved that they
came from the sun, moon or stars. And as electricity, or the fire
and phenomena of lightning, are excited, as we suppose, by two
different currents of air, or by two clouds pursuing opposite di-
rections with rapidity, we must appeal to a similar source for the
heat of meteoric stones, or to the burning of gases for it.
The chemistry of the upper regions is as yet but imperfectly
known. But we are inclined to think, that every operation of an
igneous, gaseous, and electric kind, which art can produce, and
many which it cannot, are produced by nature.
The meeting of a stream of oxygen and hydrogen gases, being
fired by an electric spark, would produce sufficient heat to vitrify
stones. And these stones which fell in Parma, we are told, were
vitrified upon their external surface. But the artillery sound
which preceded the fall of these and of other aerolites, remains to
be accounted for. We must recollect that those which Ave are
now considering fell in fragments. Indeed, the title of the article
from which we have drawn our information, is that of a sJioicer
of stones. And we are told that their surface was uneven and
cavernous. We may then infer, that their internal cavities con-
tained air, or water, or both. And that the heat, to which they
wei^ subjected, rarified the air, or turned the water to steam, and
burst the mass into fragments, which would of course produce
the sound. Upon this subject we have learned that stones have
been picked up upon the surface of the earth, of a round form,
and red sandstone color, which have been called natural granades.
They having a cavity or hollow in the middle, and having been
thrown on or into a fire, would burst and fly to pieces, with an
explosion. Such stones have been found in Maryland.
But has nature any galvanic battery in her laboratory 1 If the
voltaic fluid be the same as that of electricity, which we have the
best authority for supposing, this question is already answered in
the affirmative.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 105
By the operation of the galvanic battery, metals are so far vol-
atilized as for their particles to float in air, by which a metallic
atmosphere is formed. And that this analytic process is perform-
ed by nature, seems conclusive to some, from meteoric stones
having been found, consisting partly of iron. But perhaps we
need not resort to the agency of either galvanism or electricity, in
every instance, in order to produce a metallic atmosphere. As
sailors have been salivated at sea, from sea-water having found
admission to a large quantity of quicksilver, which formed a part
of the cargo of the vessel, which they were on board. Every rat,
mouse, and cock-roach was killed by it. And an apothecary in
New York, accidentally produced a salivation in his wife, who
was present when he was distilling a considerable quantity of
mercury, in order to purify it. In these cases, the particles of
this substance floated in the air, were inhaled into the lungs by
inspiration, and thus it produced its specific effects upon the
system.
Those who hold the opinion that aerolites are formed from
substances floating in the atmosphere, must resort to the hypothe-
sis that iron, nickel, silex, sulphur, magnesia, and limestone, are
first rendered volatile, and "then synthetically formed into the
ponderous stones which fall from above. And some respectable
writers have held these ideas. I have not however, heard them
attempt to account for the heat, light, and explosion, which their
system would render it extremely difficult for them to do.
§ 15. Those who have seen electric fire collected from t\M air
by means of electric machines, and who from water, by decom-
posing it, have seen its component parts produce an intense heat,
will be the more easily able to account for meteors, fire-balls, and
shooting stars. When these occur without any explosion, we
presume that they are not, or are not usually connected with
aerolites.
§ 16. The phenomenon of shooting stars, we have seen imi-
tated upon a small scale, in Mr. Peale's Museum, at Philadel-
phia. It was done by putting a small, thin, but not very thin,
piece of iron upon a bit of charcoal, and placing them under two
10
106 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
streams of gas, the one of oxygen, the other of hydrogen, the
two streams coming together, and being lighted at their junction.
Such an intense heat was thus produced as to burn the iron into
an immense multitude of beautiful sparks, which seemed to be
emitted from the burning iron in a kind of regular order, or dia-
mond shape of circumference. They danced about the room
like shooting stars in the air.
As we have seen that iron forms a part of meteoric stones, we
would refer tlie origin of shooting stars to the burning of iron in
the atmosphere, by the ignition of oxygen and hydrogen gases, in
the upper or etherial regions. These shooting stars have been
noticed on the 13th of November, in the years 1834, 5 and 6.
But the fii'st veritable account of the phenomenon, which we
have seen, of their falling in immense numbers, as they did at the
above periods, occurred in November, 1799.
^^^^^^H
I
^^^m
^^^B
^ffi?^
_^^^K; ,,ii,iiPl^ftsill
H^^^* --m
^^^^ -^^^fi^^^^
The account is given by Andrew Ellicot, Esq. as seen by him-
self, on a voyage from New Orleans to Philadelphia. It is called
an extraordinary flight of meteors, (commonly called shooting
stars,) and is described as a phenomenon grand and awful, the
whole heavens appearing as if illuminated with sky rockets,
which disappeared only by the light of the sun, after day break.
He tells us that these meteors appeared as numerous as the stars,
and that they flew in all possible directions, except /row the earth,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 107
or rather from the sea, as he was at sea. Some of them descend-
ed perpendicularly, over the vessel which he was in, so that he
was in constant expectation of their falling among the crew on
deck. It is said that this immensity of corruscations extended
over a large portion of the West India Islands, and over a part
of the continent.*
Although the four preceding notices of falling stars, occurred
in November, and the first three of them on the 13th of that
month, yet it appears that a similar phenomenon appeared in
April, 1803, and was observed in New Hampshire, Virginia, and
North Carolina. In how many other places we have not been
informed. Our information is derived from the New York Med-
ical Repository, Vol. VI. A work which concentrates a great
variety of valuable and highly interesting matter.
It IS represented as a very remarkable exhibition of meteors, or
shooting stars, and as having occurred towards the end of April,
and as continuing from one o'clock until after three o'clock in the
morning. And that the light was so brilliant, a part of the time,
that a person might have seen to have picked up a pin from the
ground. The beholders in several places gave certificates of what
they had witnessed, which seems to prove that the phenomenon
was considered new, or at least rare, at that time, and not as now
so common an occurrence, that it is looked for by some people,
every year on the 13th of November. The present year, 1836,
those who watched were at Cambridge, Mass. gratified with the
sight that very night. In Connecticut, the night was cloudy, and
so far as we have heard, the phenomenon never has been seen ex-
cept in clear weather. In the instance to which we have referred
in 1803, one hundred and sixty-seven of these falling meteors,
were counted by a single person in about fifteen minutes, and he
could not count them all.
As hydrogenous gas when ignited with a blaze, explodes with
a sound, it is diflicult to refer these shooting stars to that cause,
as no noise is stated to have been heard in any of the instances to
which we have referred. But the noise of thunder, succeeding a
blaze of lightning, may be with some probability, referred to its
* See American Philosophical Transactions, Vol. VI. Med. Repos. for
Aug. Sept. and Oct. 1804, pa. 167.
108 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
exploding the hydrogenous gas, within certain limits. These
limits being bounded hy the extent of the cloud ; which, as we
suppose, detaches a certain portion of it from the whole mass,
and by its watery vapors, prevents the electric fire from extending
beyond, or rather circumscribes a portion of the hydrogen itself.
A wise provision of things may be therefore discerned in rain be-
ing sent with the lightning, else the whole heavens of hydrogen
might explode at once.
§ 17. That solid matters may form in the upper regions, we
must suppose, and indeed, we have the authority of Sir Isaac
Newton, for supposing ; who conjectured that the vapors, and
the light from the sun, had like water, their sediment, and that
this sediment thus begun, might attract other matter from the
planets, until at last a secondary planet might be formed. And
then that it might go on increasing until it became a comet, which
comet, after its parts became condensed, might lose its identity,
and end in becoming a part of the sun itself. This ultimate dis-
position of comets. Sir Isaac thought designed to supply the con-
stant waste of the sun, which results from its immense emission
of light and heat continually. We must not here omit to men-
tion, that it was his opmion, that all the planets were formed of
the same matters as our earth, such as earth, water, stones, &c.
but differently arranged ; or as he expressed it, variously con-
cocted. The opinions of a philosopher such as was Sir Isaac
Newton, of whom it was said that he was
So near the gods—man cannot nearer go,
merit upon all occasions, the utmost consideration.
As stones are ascertained to have fallen from the aerial regions,
we conclude that they were formed there, and it is philosophical
to suppose that this source is their primitive origin.
§ 18. If there are any who disbelieve in the falling of mete-
oric stones to the earth, we can refer such to at least one instance
in which they fell at sea, near a vessel, one of which fell on the
deck of the vessel itself. This was preserved by the captain,
and brought home by him, who certified to the fact, and adverti-
sed that it might be seen and examined by any person, at his place
THE TONGUE OP TIME. MK)
of residence in Westminster street, Providence, R. I. Capt.
Gatewood, was the commander of the vessel referred to. He
took his departure from Block Island, bound to St. Barts, June
17th, 1809. And when three days out, steering E. S. E. in lat.
30, 58, N. long. 70, 25, W. it blowing very brisk from the south,
and being cloudy and squally, with sharp lightning and loud
thunder, a sharp and uncommon noise was heard astern, which
he compared to the report of a pistol, at two distinct and different
discharges. A few minutes after these reports, the clouds appear-
ed to separate over head, at which moment a stone fell on deck,
and at the same instant, a large number fell in the water, under
the lee, about twelve feet, as the captain supposed, from the vessel.
The stone which fell on board, weighed upwards of six ounces.
It was of the color of iron, with spots interspersed, resembling
verdigris, which were supposed to have been impregnations of
copper. The editors of the Rhode Island American, who first
published this account, examined the stone themselves.*
It was apprehended that if the large quantity of stones which
fell near the vessel, had fallen on board, that serious injury might
have been done to the crew. A stone thus falling on board a
vessel which had no stones on deck, is a decisive proof of falling
stones.
In Jan. 1810, a meteoric stone fell in North Carolina, which
was submitted to the examination of Bishop Madison, of Wil-
liamsburg, Virginia. Bishop Madison tells us that this stone
weighed three pounds, and that its general appearance was similar
to those of the meteoric stones of Europe, and to those which
fell in Connecticut. But it had one peculiarity unknown to some
of these. It had polarity, and was strongly magnetic. It fell
from above, like those in Connecticut, with an explosion. Mete-
oric stones have been referred to the volcanoes of the earth, but
when their heat and the explosion accompanying their fall are
considered, this opinion cannot be maintained.
§ 19. It has been supposed that all light and heat proceeded
from the sun alone. But this opinion is not entirely correct.
* See N. Y. Medical Repos. Vol. II. Hex. 3. p&. 178.
10*
110 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
God said let there be light and there was light. This was before
the sun, moon, or stars, were created. The hght of the aurora
borealis, evidently does not proceed from the sun. And as to
heat, volcanoes, culinary fires, and heat by friction, as well as
animal heat, do not emanate from the sun. Nor does that most
intense heat produced by firing oxygen and hydrogen gases. We
have known this heat thus produced, so great as to burn up into
scintillating sparks a piece of iron, and a piece of copper, in a
moment. A very considerable heat may be produced by mixing
sulphuric acid with water. Nor can the heat of lightning and
electricity be referred to the sun, nor the light which they so
vividly produce. The earth's surface and interior appear to have
an agency in producing heat. The higher we ascend towards
the sun, the colder it grows. A mountain three miles in height,
is at its summit a region of eternal frost. Even if situated be-
tween the tropics, its snows never melt. And where there is no
mountain, the atmosphere is equally cold, as aeronauts have
found, when they have ascended in balloons to an equal height.
Brandy has been frozen which has been carried up in balloons to
a great altitude.
Variations in temperature, sudden cold a part of the same day
which has been mild and even warm, excessively inclement win-
ters, and backward springs, must be accounted for by causes
which favor the descent of this congealing air from the upper re-
gions. Perhaps, however, sometimes in part to ice-bergs. In
this country, and in other countries situated in northern latitudes,
the descent of this cold sti*eam of air from above, seems to par-
ticularly be to the north-west. Hence the piercing winds from
that pomt of compass. The coldness of our northwesters has
been referred to the great lakes, but this is incorrect. Virgil men-
tions the same thing respecting that wind as occurring at Rome.
Geor. iii. ver. 366.
Semper hiems, semper spirantes frigora cauiri.
The meaning of caurus^ or chorus, is a north-west wind. And
the meaning of the sentence, may be thus given. " It is always
winter; and the cauri, the north-westers ever blowing coldy (See
Adam Clarke on Acts xxvii. 12.) Virgil was born about seventy
THE TONGUE OP TIME. Ill
years before the birth of Christ, now nearly two thousand years
ago, and we see at that great distance of time that the north-west
wind was ever blowing cold at Rome.
Some general atmospheric causes must occasion the freezing,
and ever freezing air of the regions over head, and only fifteen
thousand feet distant from our summer grass, and garden flowers,
to descend to the north-west ; and by being reflected, to visit us
with frosts, chills, and congelation.
In the neighborhood of the Cordilleras of South America, they
have the cold of the polar circles on the top of the mountain;
the mild climate of the temperate zone at its middle, and the
heat of the equatorial regions at and around its base.
Tropical regions are not uniformly hot, sultry, and pestilential,
as people at the north are apt to imagine. For at less than three
miles over head, even under the equator, as Le Blond observes,
is a region of eternal frost. And at the height of ten thousand
feet, in the latitude of forty-five, the same eternal frosts are
reached. In no part of the United States have we any mountain
upon whose top snow lies the year round, because there is none of
suflicient elevation.
The Caatskill and White mountains are the most elevated.*
But even these do not rise to eight thousand feet. And the high-
est part of the Alleganies, the Otter peak, is short of four thou-
sand feet. Our earth may then be considered as a warm orb,
surrounded at the altitude of three miles, with a polar region.
In passing from the shore of the ocean to the top of the Andes,
you experience all the vicissitudes of climate, and see all the va-
rieties of vegetable productions, which are found in equatorial
and arctic regions, and the countries intermediate. Such a re-
gion is interesting, not only to the natural but to the medical
philosopher. For the constitutions of man on the mountain
heights, correspond with those in cold boreal countries. Those
in the middle regions with those of temperate climes ; whilst the
human and brute species, of the low and torrid region, differ from
those on the ascents and heights. Hence it is found, that inva-
* It has been said that a mountain in Essex county, New York, is higher than
either.
112 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
lids who require a change of air, and new varieties of food, may
find them by travelling the mountains, up or down, without taking
long journeys, as those of level countries are obliged to do.
Merseilles and Naples may be found as to their temperate cli-
mates, by a journey of a mile and a half.
In French Guiana, which is a region of most intense heat, the
thermometer is elevated as high as 77' to 89^ at an elevation of
twelve hundred to fifteen hundred feet, on the mountains. Here
hail nor hoar frosts are never known. The natives go habitually
naked. And as Le Blond tells us, it is impossible to excite, by
the best machines, the electric spark. Here the temperate region
is difficult to arrive at, on account of craggy mountains, wliich
are steep and difficult to pass. The cold region commences
where the temperate one ends, at about from seven thousand nine
hundred feet, to nine thousand two hundred and fifty-five feet.
The cold increases as a higher elevation is gained, till tlie region
of suow and ice is found, where all vegetation is at an end, ex-
cept arctic plants. Palms thrive in the hot region. Orchards
flourish in the middle zone, whilst the botanist finds the plants of
the Alps and of Greenland, on the inclement and bleak tops of
the Andes.
§ 20. It has been supposed that our climate here in New Eng-
land, New York, and the other northern states, was gradually
changing for the better, that is, becoming warmer in the winter.
The clearing of the country, the cutting down of the forests,
which sheltered the snow, and kept it from melting by the rays of
the sun, has been assigned as the cause of this amelioration.
But this opinion has been contested ; although it was held by an
author whom we have heard more highly applauded, out of New
England, than any writer who has ever issued a publication in
that section of country. We refer to Dr. Wilhams, and his His-
tory of Vermont.
It is an opinion held in opposition to his, upon this point, that
as the earth and the sun retain the same relative situations to each
other, that it is unphilosophical to hold the opinion, that any ma-
terial diminution of cold can occur. EspeciaDy, as it is not
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 113
proved that the sun emitted less rays, or less warm ones, in an-
cient than in modern times.
When a country is covered with forests, these forests protect the
snows of winter from melting. And snow is very well known to
be a bad conductor of heat. It secures, therefore, to the earth a
greater degree of warmth than when its surface is bare of trees
and snow, and lies exposed to the piercing blasts of winter.
Naked fields have been known to freeze to the depth of three
feet ; whilst in the woods, where the earth's surface is covered
with snow, there has been at the same time, little or no frost.
Snow will sometimes fall when the ground is but little frozen,
or perhaps not frozen at all. And admitting that it is frozen to a
considerable depth, if the snow lies steadily upon it during the
winter, as it often does in the woods, it extracts the frost by its
moisture, and by its being warmer of itself, than frozen ground.
It indeed seems to be a fact that since our forests have fallen,
that we have had some colder days than were ever known whilst
they were standing. But we at the same time have not had so
much steady cold weather. The mean temperature may not
vary much, if any, by the clearing of the country ; although it
is admitted that we have had less snow and more pleasant warm
days in winter, and more excessively cold ones, than when our
forests were standing. But that the mean temperature of some
years does very materially vary, cannot be denied. When this
variation causes more warmth, and a higher mean rise of the
thermometer, it has been referred to planetary influence, or to the
increased action of fire, in the heart of our orb, or in its atmos-
phere. And when we have had extremely cold winters, and cool
summers, and backward springs, and early autumnal frosts, we
have heard of spots on the sun, and of mountains of ice higher
than the top of the highest mast, floating in the ocean. The
proof of which, as well as of immense fields of floating ice, can-
not be denied. But how and where do these immense moun-
tains of ice form ; and how, and from whence are they pushed
into the sea "? We must suppose that they are the productions of
the polar regions. That they have been long accumulating,
during centuries indeed, which have passed without a thaw. And
114 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
that at last they are detached by thaws, and high winds from the
north, which drive them into more southern seas.
Facts confii-m this theory. Access to Greenland, which was
formerly visited by navigators, and even by missionaries, had been
prevented for the space of four hundred years, by ice. In the
year 1816 or 1817, this icy barrier broke up. This breaking up
probably began in 1815 ; as we heard of floating ice in 1816, in
abundance, and the summer was very cool both here and in Eu-
rope, in 1816. The disruption of the ice, therefore, probably
began the year preceding, which was the year of the great gale in
New England, i. e. Sept. 1815. And we have observ^ed that
when an elemental strife or commotion occurs in one part of the
world, that something similar occurs in a distant, and sometimes
very distant part of it.
§ 21. Geologists of great genius, are busily engaged in form-
ing a plausible and probable theory of the earth's interior, and of
the mammoth, inguadon, and other fossil remains, petrifactions,
and animal exuvia it contains ; as well as of its other physical
phenomena. We may mention the Rev. Mr. Buckland, in Eng-
land, Professors Silhman and Hitchcock, and Dr. J. L. Comstock,
in this country. We must direct the eyes of these philosophers
upward. Geography cannot be learned without some knowledge
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 115
of astronomy. Now we view the subject of aerolites, and the
falhng of stones and rocks from the heavens, as intimately con-
nected with geological researches ; and indeed, as the astronomi-
cal part of geology. The explanation of this curious subject,
like the developement of all others which are involved in myste-
ry, must be preceded by an extensive collection of facts. As an
important part of our knowledge of the anatomy and physiology
of man, it is necessary to become acquainted with all the proper-
ties of the elementary matters of which he is formed. Nor can a
system of human nature be completed, without deep reflection,
and a scrutinizing examination into physical phenomena.
Water, which so readily quenches fire, is still a constituent part
of every thing that burns. Nor do we scarcely know any sub-
stance that is combustible, but that it contains some water. In-
asmuch, that as a general rule, it may be said that fire will not
burn without water.* The hottest of all fires is made of the
constituent parts of water. We cannot account for the pheno-
mena of the earth, unless we assume the theory that water in
oceans, was placed first in our system, and the rocks, mountains,
sands, and all the granitical, and primitive parts of our orb, was
thrown in a fused or heated state into it.
We mention this subject a second time, in oi'der to remark,
that a great part of what are mountains now, was once gravel and
sand, which amphibious and marine animals, beneath the sea,
could manage to throw into eminences, and submarine mountains ;
which upon the changing of the location of the sea, upon its
leaving one part of the globe for another part of it, which on all
hands is allowed to have happened, came to view as dry land, and
is so still.
The incorporation of the shells of marine animals, can be
accounted for upon this hypothesis, and upon this only, into
mountains not volcanic.
§ 22. A writer who wrote before the American Revolution,
and who was at the time he wrote, a member of the British Par-
liament, and who had previously been Governor of Massachusetts
* Air contains water, and fire will not burn without air. Coal contains lees
water than any other fuel.
116 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Bay, Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey, and Governor of South
Carolina, Thomas Pownal, Esq. has made some interesting geo-
logical remarks upon our soil, rivers and mountains, in connection
with Mr. Lewis Evans, of Pennsylvania, who was the earliest
geologist of the New World.
This writer, after having said much upon the Alleghany, End-
less and Kittatinni mountains, and mentioned the Kaatskill
mountain, and also their spurs, observes, that " The stones in all
parts of these mountains are full of sea shells." And further
says, that "It is not in the loose stones scattered through the vales
that these shells abound only, but they are found at the tops of the
mountains also."
He mentions having seen some mixed with the rocky base of a
high mountain. And of having found a soft stone in a creek,
five or six feet long, as full, as he says, of all sorts of shells, as
if they had been kneaded into a lump of brown clay.
There was all the variety of shells that could be imagined, and
many that he had never seen before, nor of which he could ima-
gine their existence in nature. He mentions particularly, a large
escalop, with corbels as fine as diose of cockles. He was almost
disposed to pronounce this a lusus natures, but he afterwards saw
that sort of shell, and many other of the sorts which he saw there,
in a bed of soil more than thirty feet under ground, in Virginia.
Gov. Pownal, mentions his having examined also a spot near
a mill in Maryland, where earth had been dug from an adjacent
bank to construct the mill dam. Here he found shells at the top,
mixed with loose sand. At three or four feet deep they were
inclosed in a sandy clay. And at four or five feet deeper, the clay
was gradually hardened, as he says, into a loose kind of stone.
As Mr. Evans was not a professed geologist, as he had declared
for no system, and as his remarks are the result of his own rigid
inspection, and as he visited the States* from Massachusetts to
Virginia, as well as part of what now forms the state of Ohio, and
above all, as he appears to have been a man of first rate talents
and acquisitions, we have noticed his observations with much
interest. And we have here particularly adverted to what he has
* Then Colonies.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 117
said respecting the different locations in which he found sea shells,
as confirmatory of our previous hypothesis.
What he says of the soil, or sand, hardening into stone, with
shells innbedded in it, is directly in point, in relation to the geology
of our mountains, which are not of volcanic origin. These emi-
nences, when the sea left them dry, were sand, gravel and sea-soil,
which in the course of time, and by the action of the sun, air, and
percolation of fresh water, falling from the clouds in rain, have
become crystallized into rock.
Some of their fissures, and crevices, may be referred to the
action of water freezing into ice. Ice occupies more space than
water. It is thus that casks, and other vessels, are burst by the
freezing of water in them. And the power thus produced is im-
mense, when the cold is fextreme.
§ 23. As to fish bones, shells, and trees being found imbedded
in the soil of America, at the distance of forty, fifty, and even of
one hundred feet, at which latter distance the trunk of a tree was
found on Long Island,* they must be referred to alluvial action.
A hill, which composes the upper division of Cincinnati, is,
according to a very competent and very learned authority, Dr.
Drake, of that city, like the scite of the whole town, of alluvial
origin. This hill is composed of loam, brick-clay, gravel, sand,
pebbles, which are silicious, and fragments of argillaceous grit,
with a thin soil on the top of it. Some of the pebbles, however,
are termed by him, opake calcareous carbonate, and some white,
blue, brown, and red amorphous quartz, flint, and several varie-
ties of granite, but all water worn, and resembling those found
on the beaches of the adjacent rivers.
The formation here must be of river alluvion, or by the action
of fresh water, as no marine shells are found, nor no animal exu-
viae have been found, except the vertebrae of the mammoth, and
of those but one solitary bone, at the depth of twenty feet, in the
hill.
* This was about thirty miles from New York. At Hempstead plain, a log
three feet long was found in digging a well, at the depth of one hundred and
eight feet, also on Long Island.
11
118 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Vegetable matters were found at the same depth, and also at
the depths of thirty-six and of ninety feet, in digging wells in the
same hill. At the depth of ninety feet, the workmen dug up the
stumps of two trees, which they supposed had grown there. An
intelligent labourer would certainly be able to determine this
point, by their position, and the fine and fibrous ramifications of
the roots. And our country certainly abounds with more intelli-
gent operatives, than any other country in the known world.
And our merchant ships are commanded by men of better
general knowledge, than those of any nation, England not ex-
cepted. From these creditable and praiseworthy acquirements,
of the common mass of our population, we expect much, and
have already, as we think, begun to experience the scientific
benefits.
We have already referred to one ship master, whose descrip-
tion of the bones, and of the scite in which they were found, at
Girgenti, were drawn up in a style of scholarship. How many
highly important facts might by this time have been concentrated,
and made known in the world, had every captain of a merchant
vessel been equally obseiTiiig, and equally competent i
We incline to coincide with those persons who dug this well of
Jacob Burnett, Esq. at Cincinnati, in their opinion that the trees,
of which they found the stumps, ninety feet below the surface,
might have grown there, and afterwards been covered to that
depth, by river alluvion.
From their very deep situation, it has however been inferred,
that these stumps were deposited there, when that part of the
country was, as Mr. Volney supposes it to have been, in ancient
times, covered with the waters of a lake.
In either case, a curious geological question might be raised,
as to the age of the world.
§ 24. Coal beds, wliich are not formed from peat, must be
referred to rafts of wood.
As these stumps were not turned to coal, although ninety feet
of earth had accumulated over them, we are led to the query,
how many ages fossil coal is in forming] As to how long this
mass of ninety feet of earth, was in its accumidation over these
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 119
Stumps, we would refer the matter to Professor Hitchcock, of
Amherst College, who supposes that the same causes are in ope-
ration now, as formerly, as to alluvial formations.
The Rev. Mr. Buckland, however, is said to have discovered
that the first chapter of Genesis, is not correctly translated, and
that the earth is as many millions of years old, or more, than it
has hitherto been reckoned thousands.
We have seen it lately stated, that by a government survey,
there are found twenty thousand square miles of coal bed, in
Pennsylvania.
Those immense rafts of trees and wobd, in our western rivers,
one of which is ten miles long, and two hundred and twenty yards
wide ; and another, much more capacious, viz. one on Red River,
fifty-one miles in length, we must suppose destined to become
coal, at some period immensely future, if they are not removed.
But for this formation, the river must be obstructed, by the raft,
and change its course, and leave the wood and the other vegetable
products in quiet, to be changed by terrene operations. Coal
beds may, however, be formed from peat ;* Professor Hitchcock
having found one hundred incipient coal beds formed in Massa-
chusetts alone, from this substance.
§ 25. We incline to think that a peculiar vegetable action,
or fermentation is necessary for the formation of coal. It may
be compared with that of the human body, which in certain situa-
tions after death, instead of decaying or changing into its origi-
nal elements, is wholly turned to a fatty substance, called adipo
cere. Bodies lying on the beds of certain rivers, after the person
was drowned, have been found wholly turned into this fatty, or
waxlike substance, which is deemed incorruptible.
§ 26. As we have referred to gigantic human bones, as hav-
ing been found in the Old World, we have some documents
before us, upon the same subject, relating to the New ; all lead-
ing to the conclusion that both continents were once inhabited, in
* Peat is formed from a little vegetable, named sphagnum palustre, in placea
wet and swampy—it is called turf, by some.
120 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
part, by a race of men of superior stature to the present. Has
the world, therefore, as it grows old, a tendency to belittle its ani-
mal productions 1
The fossil remains of men and of animals, seem to speak such
a language.
Mr. James Foster, of Aubeville, Ohio, in relation to the anti-
quities of that state, writes, that he is situated in the midst of
them ; and that he has seen skeletons from eight to ten feet
high.*
R. D. Richardson, Esq. of Circleville, in the same state, states
that a mound in Montgomery county, was opened, in which a
singular kind of vault was discovered, in form of a sugar-loaf,
coming to a flat arch on the top. And that in this vault
was discovered a large quantity of human bones, the arm bones
measuring from the shoulder to the wrist, about three feet in
length, being as we may remark, at least ten inches longer than
those of an ordinary man.
The same gentleman remarks, that in Franklin county, five
miles west of the town of Washington, a large number of bones
were found within a small mound, which mound was com-
posed of flat stones ; and that one scull was taken out nearly
whole, and so very large as to cover the face of the largest persons
who were present. Another particular is told of this fossil crani-
um, appended to which it seems that a part of the vertebrae of
the neck bones still remained attached, which seems to speak a
language not to be misunderstood. It is, that this mound, and
the observation may apply to other mounds, was a place of sepul-
ture for those who fell in battle ; and that the giants of old, like
their less bulky successors, were sometimes engaged in war. In-
deed, who can view the whole of animated nature, and not be
struck with the universality of hostility ? The elder President
Adams observed, that he believed that even the eels in vinegar
were quarrelsome.
But the fact to which we allude is, that the stone head of an
arrow was found sticking into the back of the neck bones of this
skeleton. A part, this, of a living body, which for an arrow to
* Med. Rep. Hex. iii. Vol. 3, p. 383.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 1*21
penetrate, would divide, or compress, the spinal marrow, and
cause a person to fall as instantly down, as though shot through
the heart ; and as certainly, yet not so soon, to die. This
ancient warrior, must have been shot as he was retreating from an
enemy, between two contiguous bones of the neck—the cervical
vertebra. The arrow, to have so long retained its place, must
have penetrated the intervertebral cartilage, and divided, or lace-
rated, that continuation of the brain, called the spinal cord, or
marrow.
These bones ought if possible to have been preserved. But we
have to regret, that very ancient bones, crumble, upon being dis-
interred and exposed to the air, and no method has been hitherto
discovered to prevent this. The most probable is, to place them
immediately upon their removal, into a glass case, made airtight.
A tumulus, or mound, has been recently opened at Westmore-
land, England, about a mile and a half from Great Ashley.
This tumulus was seventy-five feet in diameter, and about eight feet
high, and was constructed of loose fragments of lime-stone rock;
in removing which a few feet from the surface, the skeleton of a
giant eight feet long, and a large horse's head were found.
A little lower down, two other skeletons, lying across each
other, one of which had a dirk, or knife, between the ribs of it,
were discovered,
11*
CHAPTER III.
ANCIENT MOUNDS, FORTIFICATIONS, REMAINS OF WORKSHOPS, WALLS
AND WELLS IN AMERICA, AND OTHER ANTIQUITIES, SUCH AS PYRA-
MIDS AND PALACES, AND REMNANTS OF CITIES. CREATION.
§ 1. The remains of ancient, labored, and extensive works,
mounds, ditches, walls, and excavations, are subjects of great
curiosity, and have excited much learned speculation. We have
not heard of their parallels, or anv thing like them, in the Old
World, as a whole ; although some of the barrows in the latter,
may approach some of our small mounds. That they were not
erected by the present race of Indians, in their present state, is
allowed on all hands. But by whom and for what purpose they
were erected, is a perplexing query—wliich is increased by then*
various modes of formation ; by the various quantity of ground
which they inclose ; by the different height of their earth-bank
walls ; and by the stones brought, in some instances, from con-
siderable distances, to aid in some parts of their construction.
Like the Egyptian pyramids, they excite our wonder, and stimu-
late our curiosity, to know that about them which cannot be
known. And like them, they may ever have been of less utility
than the immense labor and pains, which they denote. If we
could believe that the ancients erected works for no other purpose
than to excite astonishment in the moderns, we would point to
Egyptian pyramids, and to these wonders of the West and South,
as instances.
The Right Reverend Bishop Madison, of Virginia, has written
with much sense, acuteness, and erudition, upon the subject.
And he has almost made me of his own opinion, that those works
to which he refers, and which he visited, on the Kanhawa river.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 123
and its vicinity, could not have been erected for fortifications, or
military works.*
The reasons for this opinion are, that many of them have the
foss, ditch, or moat, within the inclosure or earth-bank parapet
—
that this supposed parapet, wants the elevation necessary for a
defensive work—and above all, that a mound, some sixteen or
eighteen feet higher than the walls, is erected at the distance of
some forty or fifty yards, which completely commands them. An
enemy getting possession of this mound, and there being nothing
to hinder, could throw any kind of missiles with effect into the
inclosure. And the Bishop very justly observes, that to first build
a fortification, and then to rear a castle, or mound without it,
which would give an enemy its entire command, would be as far
from the notions of an Esquimaux, as a Buonaparte.
One of these mounds, on the Kanhawa, in Virginia, measured
four hundred and twenty feet in circumference, and was very
nearly forty feet high ; there being on the top a level of twelve or
thirteen feet in diameter. These mounds have in other places,
and in various instances, been opened. And that they were
cemeteries, has been ascertained by the bones which they were
found to contain. But as to the supposed fortifications, orinclo-
sures, the use or purpose for which they were constructed, is the
grand desideratum. That those on the Kanhawa could not have
been built for any military purpose, is further rendered probable,
by their not unfrequently standing at the very bottom of a hill,
from which, as Bishop Madison observes, stones in thousands
might be rolled into every part of them.
And again, that those which are remote from water courses,
still have no marks denoting wells ever having been dug in them ;
and as water is an indispensable article for a beseiged army, this
fact, although it diff*ers from what has been observed in Ohio,
would seem to be conclusive as to those inclosures in which wells
never had any existence.
But there is one further position taken by the Bishop to dis-
prove the supposed military design of these works. And it is
such an one, that if it existed throughout the United States, or to
any great extent in any one State, would of itself be sufficient to
* See American Philosophical Transactions, Vol. VI.
124 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
decide the matter, and to compel every one, who thought upon
the subject, to think with him. We allude to the frequency of
those structures, which upon the river Kanhawa, for the extent of
eighty or one hundred miles, and also in contiguity to many
streams which empty into it, they are to be met with in almost
every square mile ; and in most of this distance, for every mile
square, there are several. And they are indeed as thick and as
irregularly dispersed, as the farm houses and barns, of planters
and farmers.
Now we say, that if they were equally thick throughout the
country, we should suppose that some agricultural object was
their design ; some pen, or pound for wild beasts, or planting
patch. But the fact is, that in some parts of the New World, and
for hundreds and hundreds of miles in extent, no such structures
exist at all.
Throughout the whole of New England, nor in Eastern New-
York, do we hear of any Indian forts. We must therefore keep
in mind, that the present race of aboriginals never originally con-
structed these laborious works, for which they lacked skill, tools,
enterprise, and industry.
They were the works of another, a more systematic, and pro-
bably of a more gigantic race. Beings to whom the Indian tribes
were in constant hostility, and whom they finally extirpated ; and
that so long ago, that their memory is lost—no tradition being
retained, by whom, or for what purpose, these earth-bank inclo-
sures, with their ditches, were ever erected. But as to the conti-
guous mounds, it is evident from the showing of Mr. Jefferson,
in his Notes on Virginia, that the present race did use the upper
part of them, as did the ancient race their bases, for places of
sepulture ; or perhaps this remark belongs to Bishop Madison
himself, as we learn from him, that near the summit of one of
these mounds, articles of European manufacture, such as the
tomahawk, and knife, were found, which were never seen at any
depth ; it being well known that the Indians deposit with the bodies
of their deceased friends, such articles as they most highly prized
whilst living. Were this universally the case, we might account
for these mounds being carried upwards to a great height above
the contiguous walls of the supposed fortifications, by tlie modern
Indians.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 125
But here another difficulty meets us ; for (he mound already
noticed, on the Kanhawa river, of forty feet in altitude, could not
have been thus used by the modern aboriginals ; it having a tall
oak, of two feet and a half in diameter, which had grown on the
top of it. The oak had been blown down apparently a few years
before Bishop Madison visited the spot, but was still lying there.
Now as respects the moderate elevation of these banks, dis-
proving their having been originally intended for fortifications, we
have to remark, that fascines, pickets, or the sharpened tops of
prostrate trees, might have crowned, and added additional security
to them—all which wood works long ago decayed, nor left a
wreck behind. And as to the foss or moat being inside, it is not
certain that although the Romans, according to Polybius, con-
structed their forts with the moat outside, that it does not afford
equal obstruction to an invading force, when dug in the interior.
And of one thing we may be pretty certain. It is, that when an
army in haste has fortified itself by fascines, prostrate trees, or
pickets, and when an invading army is immediately in the vicini-
ty, that the besieged, if for further security, they determined to
throw up a bank, and to dig a trench, that they must of necessity
work inside of their wooden barrier.
This may account for the moat sometimes being on the inside ;
which on the Kanhawa does not always appear to have been the
case. And in Ohio, we have not learned that any instance of the
kind has been noticed, except when there has been two moats,
one outside, and the other inside the wall. As to water, it might
have been collected from the rains, and retained in wooden
cisterns.
We must be careful to keep in view that the ancient aborigi-
nals were not the same savage hordes as the present Indians, who
live by hunting and fishing. The former no doubt lived partly
by agriculture, and had some knowledge of the mechanic arts,
and of the smelting of ores. In proof of which, the Hon. W.
Campbell, of Ohio, mentions one of these fortifications, of a
peculiar character, on Point creek. This, he tells us, is stationed
on the summit of a very high hill, and that its walls are of stone !
And although it incloses, as he thinks, two hundred and fifty acres
of land, the stones of which the wall is built, must have been
126 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
brought from a considerable distance ;* a certain proof that the
present dilatory race of savages never built it.
Here then was a farm of two hundred and fifty acres enclosed
with a stone wall, within which are several excavations, which
tlie Hon. Mr. Campbell tells us, must have been wells. And al-
though he observes, that this fortification must have been im-
mensely strong, yet he does not suppose that the design was so
much for defence in war, as for the security of certain work-
shops. This opinion is predicated upon the discovery of the
cinder of metals there found, in large quantity ; and that deep
in the midst of a heap of it, is to be seen a large fiue.
He does not find the construction of this great inclosure calcu-
lated for sallies on an invading enemy. And it evidently incloses
too much land to be needed for work-shops, and the operation of
smelting alone. Both the purposes of inclosing a farm, and of
securing the work-shops, appear to have been intended by this
large, curious, and ancient structure.
He thinks that appearances justify the conclusion that the metal
wrought, was at least partly iron ; and mentions a spot three or
four miles southwardly, where the artists probably procured their
ore. This was between two parallel and perpendicular rocks,
not far apart. It had been lately opened when the account was
written in 1812, and the marks of supposed mattocks discovered.
Another of these fortifications is situated on the banks of the
Little Miami, about thirty-five miles N. E. from Cincinnati, over-
looking the river, and calculated to defend the adjacent beautiful
and fertile country, as well as the stream. The plain upon which
it stands, is about two hundred and thirty-six feet above the level
of the Miami, and between two other small streams, with high
banks. The walls of this inclosure are of earth, and surrounded
by the steep banks of the water courses, except at the N. E.
corner. The lines of the walls correspond with the precipitous
banks of the water courses, and vary in height agreeably to their
altitude and shape ; being usually from eight to ten feet high,
where additional security is aflfordedby them, and nineteen and a
half feet high, on the plain, where this additional security ceases.
* Vide Med. Rep. Hex. iii. Vol. 3. pa. 385.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 127
On the exterior of this wall is a deep ditch. The base of the wall
is stated to be four poles and a half thick, and that in a number
of places it appears to have been forced by bodies of water
breaking through it, which were collected and pent up within the
inclosure. And here we would observe, that the excavations
which are mentioned to be found within the area of the stone
fortification, where the work-shops were once situated, if not
really wells, may have been designed for the accumulation and
retention of rain water, in small ponds.
Two mounds are situated about twenty poles from the eastern
gate of the Little Miami fortification, each ten feet and eight
inches in height. From these mounds, in a north-east direction,
are two roads or paths, one pole apart. These end at or near a
third mound, and are raised about three feet from the surface of
the earth. This has been supposed to have been a race ground.
But Mr. Campbell thinks that it was most probably a place where
the savages made their prisoners run the gauntlet. Between the
wall and the river, at the S. W. end of this fortification, are three
roads forty poles in length, cut out of the precipitous bank of the
stream. There are excavations supposed to have been wells, in
this, as well as in the fortification on Paint Creek.
§ 2. In Christian countries, a spot is chosen for a burying
yard, where the graves are dug contiguous to each other, the
whole extent being small. The origin of church-yards, so called,
or burying grounds, is Roman Catholic. Bodies were thus con-
centrated in a small space, and near a church, that they might be
the more conveniently prayed for by the priests ; that denomina-
tion, unlike the protestants, making it a part of their religion, to
pray for the dead. The laying of the dead of the same family
near together, who were so nearly connected in life, would seem
to be congenial to the feelings and affections of the living, and
to human nature itself. The aboriginal or Indian mode of
sepulture, displayed this trait of the human race, by laying the
first dead body on the surface of the ground, and covering it over
with earth. And the next, and succeeding bodies, were placed
around it, in a circular direction, until the basis of a tumuli or
mound, of sufficient or of the intended size, was in time formed
128 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
by deaths and burials. Then, as others of the tribe dropped
away, they were laid over the first, in a somewhat smaller circle,
and covered like the former with earth, until by subsequent deaths
the second circle was finished. Then a third, fourth, and indefi-
nite number of circles were formed, until the mound was twelve,
twenty, or forty feet in height, as fancy or the size of the tribe
might dictate.
That this was the mode of sepulture of the ancient aboriginals,
was ascertained by Mr. Jefferson, who had one of these mounds
opened under his own inspection, which was situated on the Ri-
vanna river, in Virginia. The number of bones in this mound,
authorized the conclusion, that a thousand bodies had been there-
in deposited ; and yet it was a small tumuli compared with some
others ; it being only forty feet in diameter, and about twelve
feet in height, or a little above.
President Jefferson, who never touched a subject without throw-
ing light upon it, by examining the different layers of earth, and
of human bones connected with these layers, and by finding in-
fant bones in the mound, corrected the erroneous notion that these
cemeteries were always the results of combatants slain in war,
and all inhumed at the same period. He found that the earth
and the bones of the different layers were distinct, and uncon-
nected with those above or below ; and that the various strata of
bones were in various states and stages of decay, indicating the
various periods in which they were inhumed.
The origin and growth of these mounds may be considered
now as well ascertained ; and the only question which remains to
be settled, is with respect to the inclosures ; the high walls of
earth, and sometimes of stone—the wide and deep, but some-
times narrow and shallow moats and ditches. There are others
on the Fox river, of small elevation, and considerable length, in
the shape of aligators, and lizards, evidently of no military origin:
—Pos^-J/or/e7?i deposites, no doubt. That one hundred of these
structures, which required great labor to construct them, should
be found on the Kanhawa river, in the space of one hundred
miles, sufficiently proves that they had other uses than the occu-
pancy of garrisons, or any other purposes purely military. They
were inclosures for gardens, patches for potatoes and corn, and
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 129
houses, and places to secure domestic animals, and to shut out
wild beasts, and to secure work-shops for the mechanic arts, from
being plundered.
That they were built on the low lands near the Kanhawa river,
plainly proves that a part of their design was agricultural, for
here are some of the best lands in Virginia. Had they been de-
signed wholly for military purposes, they would have been built
on the adjacent and adjoining hills. But had they not been built
partly with that design, they had not been built at all.
We must constantly bear in mind, that they were not construct-
ed by the present race of savages, but by a different and more
civilized people, between whom and the former, there was unre-
mitting hostility ; so that they found it necessary to fortify their
dwellings, protect their animals, and secure their tools ; and that
this state of things continued for a long number of ages ; until
the one hostile people had extirpated, or amalgamated with the
other, and that then these structures, like the Chinese wall, when
the Tartars and Chinese became one nation, ceased to be of any
use.
These domestic fortifications, must, however, be considered as
calculated to secure a partial jurisdiction of their proprietors, over
the surrounding country. When their ramparts were increased
by fascines, both in height and in security, those within, might
with their arrows, keep depredators at a distance. The aborigin-
als in this region, cultivated corn and potatoes ; and it is remark-
able that the Europeans did not find the latter north of Virginia.
§ 3. As to animal food it was derived from the chase ; and as
to milk, it was unknown in the New World, as an article of diet,
although the lama, so similar to the camel, might have supplied
it in those parts of the continent where it was found. Camel's
milk is a favorite article of food in some parts of the Old World,
and mare's milk is used by the Tartars. It is one of the difiicul-
ties, in deriving the aboriginals from the eastern continents, when
it is considered that this article of diet, so universal there, was
unknown upon the first discovery of America. But if it can be
supposed that man passed over the polar and arctic regions of
the Old World into the New, how could the equatorial and tropi-
12
130 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
cal animals and reptiles, find their way thither 1 and from whence
came the rattlesnake, the condor, the lama, and numerous other
birds, beasts, and reptiles, unknown in the Old World 1 We
have no other way to solve these perplexing questions, than by
supposing that the whole world was originally but one continent
;
and that at the primaiy formation of dry land, water did not
cover three-fifths, or three-fourths of the globe, as at present
;
and that all the oceans were in one. There will be no difficulty
in inferring what was done with the superabundant waters of the
flood, upon this hypothesis.
The common origin of man, is to be inferred from the surpri-
sing uniformity of his anatomical structure. In the Egyptian
mummy, in the Chinese, in the Sandwich Islander, in the Green-
lander, and in the Patagouian, we know of no material anatomical
or physiological difference. The same number of cranial bones,
the same red blood, and yellow bile, and transparent tears, and
the same uses of each is universal.
§ 4. It has been supposed that men partake of the nature of
the particidar countries, and even districts, in which they happen
to live—that where nature furnishes things upon a grand scale, or
a beautiful scale, or upon a rough and barren scale, as to lofty
mountains, magnificent rivers and bays, charming fields and
groves, or rough and craggy cliffs, angular rocks, and precipitous
hills, and misshapen vallies, that the inhabitants will have corres-
ponding notions, and bodily forms, and modes of intercourse,
conduct and refinement. And we ourselves, think that there is
about as much reason, and about as many facts in support of this
system, as for that of Messrs. Gall and Spurzheim's system of
craniology. We at any rate know one beautiful town, perhaps
including its adjacent scenery, marine and terraqueous, the most
beautiful in America, which has long been noticed, even so long
ago as the American revolution, and it is said before it, for very
beautiful women. We refer to Newport, R. I.
It is a remarkable geological feature, that where we see one
handsome hill, or dale, or point, or promontory, which looks as if
it had been struck out by nature, after the model of an easy,
elegant, and graceful penman, with his finished strokes of de-
THE TONGUE OP tlME, 131
pression and elevation, that we do not see it alone. We shall find
another, and another, and often spacious districts proudly peer-
ing, of the same description. And on the other hand, where we
see one mountain resembling a thunder-cloud, or one knoll filled
with stones, rough and round, or a sunken bog and quagmire, or
hills and vales, which are crooked and zig-zag, like the marks
and letters of a child, who has just begun with pen and paper,
that we shall find their ungraceful neighbors near by.
§ 5. But in further remarking upon aboriginal antiquities, we
may observe, that some of them must have been designed, if all
were not, for defen:>ive or military works alone. There is, for in-
stance, a hill between the city of Rochester, and the village of
Le Roy, and it is the only hill which occurs between these two
places, which are twenty-seven miles apart. It is called Fort-
hill, from a moat or vast ditch upon its brow, so long indeed, that
our patience failed to go to the end of it, as our carriage was
waiting. This incloses no area, and the earth thrown out of it,
was thrown towards the brow of the hill. It is nothing more than
a long fosse and bank. I should think it must originally have
been six feet wide, and six feet deep. It must have been a pretty
formidable barrier to a hostile tribe, who attempted to march that
v/ay further west into the Genesee country. We did not learn
that there was any mound or eminence of any kind in its
vicinity.
It is one very extraordinary feature in the mounds, or cemete-
ries in Virginia, Ohio, and we believe wherever they have been
found, that the earth which composes them was brought from a
distance ; there being no excavations in the immediate vicinity of
those on the Kenhawa, from which it was taken.
Earth from Jerusalem, has been, on account of its supposed
sanctity, carried to Europe ; and these aboriginals, probably had
some spot which they considered holy, from which at immense
labor, they brought the earth to cover their dead.
It is, as we conceive,, very justly remarked by the Right Rev.
Bishop Madison, that the Indians had two kinds of these mounds.
The largest he considered to have been national. Here those
slain were inhumed after a battle ; and here the bones of those
132 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
whose fate was sealed by death, at too great a distance to bring
their bodies, were deposited, after having been carefully collected,
and the relioious ceremonies and mournina: of the nation, had
been gone through with, which were of a thrilling and extrava-
gant kind.
The other species of mound was smaller, and designed for a
family or society. Every fortified or inclosed space had its
mound, which was placed in a line with the principal gateway.
These mounds were from ten to twenty feet in height.
Now in relation to these mounds commanding the gateways of
the supposed fortifications, if they were really such, may we not
suppose, that the top of them was fortified by pickets, and that
they were the places where centinels were stationed, to defend the
gate, when there was a gate to the gateway, against an invading
enemy ? And thus did these mounds answer the double purpose
of cemeteries and of bastions.
§ 6. It appears from an account now lying before us, relative
to these mounds and fortifications in Georgia, for there, as well
as in Virginia and Ohio, where a fortification or inclosure was
discovered, there was one or more mounds also, near it ; that the
mound itself was fortified, by a moat and bank about it, distinct
from the main fortification, but near it, or within it. This was
not always, but in one instance it was the case ;
perhaps in more.
Again, upon Cedar Creek, Jones County, Georgia, there is one
of these circular forts ; and we may here observe, that this is
always, or generally their shape. It is situated on a very high
hill, and incloses about seven acres of land, with a double moat
and wall, about twenty feet from each other, forming two circles
of earthern wall, and two of foss or ditch ; the wall being now,
from six to eight feet in height. There is to this fortification,
four gateways, and inside each of them, there is at the distance of
about twenty feet to the right, an elevation of earth, which is now
eibout eight feet in height. There cannot possibly be any doubt
about the design of these being to protect the gateways, for they
are within the fort ! They are not circular however ; the largest
of them which is near the N. E. gateway, being two hundred feet
long, by one hundred and twenty wide ; affording a summit, upon
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 1^3
which a very considerable body of soldiers might stand, sit or lie.
The other three are of similar shape, but much smaller* Exteri-
or to all these works there is a mound or barrow, which is suppo-
sed to be a cemetery.
§ 7. The fortification in Georgia, which we have first noticed,
contains an area of about twelve acres. It is from fifteen to
twenty miles from Fort Hawkins. The elevation of earth within
this inclosure, is of an oblong shape, and appeared to be one hun-
dred and fifty feet by eighty. It was evidently intended for a kind
of citadel, and here an ancient city might once have stood, near
the sea shore, when the shore was as in ancient times, near where
the immense bed of oyster shells, with other marine remains,
now lie.
This bed of shells, ninety miles in length, with other oceanic
exuvise, runs quite through the State of Georgia, whose present
sea shore is at a considerable distance from it southerly. And it
is to be particularly noticed, that these antiquities are not to be
found on the plain and alluvial formation, which constitute the
present southerly part of the state, but beyond the ancient sea-
shore, in the upper country, which is not champaign, nor alluvial,
but interspersed with hills, vallies, and rivulets.
We are then at liberty to suppose, that these relics of antiquity,
are as ancient as the former shore of Georgia ; and that they pre-
ceded the alluvial formation of the south part of the state, called
the lower country.
We have noticed an interesting communication to the Editor's
of a former periodical, published in New York, from Dr. Nicho-
las Childers, from which we have drawn some particulars, re-
specting the antiquities found in Georgia.*
We may here notice one opinion which has been advanced
upon the subject of these American mounds and fortifications ;
and we do it, because it comes from an authority so high, that it
merits notice, although for its most glaring absurdity, it merits
none. It even shows that any one who could hold such an opin-
ion, could neither have seen any of them, nor read, nor thought,
* Med. Rep. for August, September, and October, 1810, pa. 146.
12*
134 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
nor conversed, much about them. It is that they are natural
productions
!
§ 8. It was our opinion, and the remark has already been
made, that it was allowed on all hands, that the present race of
Indians could not have constructed these works. We have, how-
ever, since observed one writer, who holds the contrary opinion,
and thinks that the ancestors of the present savage race, might
have been their engineers. He calls in question Dr. Robertson's
opinion, who supposes that a nation will not so far degenerate as
to lose the necessary arts of life, such as the plough, and the
loom afford. But this writer thinks that ploughs and looms were
not necessary, or could not be termed the necessary arts of life, in
a country where game was so plenty as to afford both food and
clothing.* The writer did not reflect, that this singular notion of
his, implies the increase of game, and of forests, in a civilized
country ! He having previously admitted, that the remains of
old forts, which he tells us are of an oblong form, and built con-
tiguous to the water, and that fragments of earthen ware found
more especially near the forts, but some of them all over the
country where he resides, indicate that it was once peopled by
men of very different habits from the present natives. If, there-
fore, the present race may live upon wild animals, and dress them-
selves in the skins of wild beasts, their ancestors might have done
the same. They might have had their forts in the morass, form-
ed by nature, and their bastions behind the oak, and their citadel
in the mountain crag, as now :
—besides, if there were not two
conflicting nations formerly upon this continent, these military
antiquities would point to centuries of constant^ civil war—a state
of things unheard of on earth, among men civilized or savage,
who had the art of fortification. One observation of the writer is,
however, a very appropriate answer to those who have said that
these fortifications were erected by mariners, who were cast on
shore, to protect themselves from the savages. It is that they are
not erected on the sea coast, but in the interior. This is so much
the case that we have never heard of one of these antique struc-
* A Topographical Description of Jefferson County, N. Y. See Med. Ra-
pes, for May, June and July, 1810.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 135
tures upon the tide-waters ; a very extraordinary and surprising
fact indeed !
§ 9. We are told of the existence of mounds on the Oak-
mulgee river, in Georgia, upon a plain. Near one of these
mounds, Fort Hawkins has since been erected. In digging into
the side of one of these eminences or mounds, to erect some
building belonging to the garrison, we are told of the workmen
finding the remains of guns, whose locks were much longer than
of those now in use ; and that at or near the same place, farming
utensils, such as axes and hoes, were found, but of an unknown
shape, and different from those now in use ; and also, that the
clapper of a bell was discovered, which after the loss it had sus-
tained by rust, or oxydizing, weighed seven pounds.
But we cannot imagine that these articles could have been of
any great antiquity, and not coeval with the age of the large trees
which grew on these mounds. We incline upon this subject, to
the opinion before adduced, that these articles were of European
manufacture ; and that the Indians, since the Spanish invasion,
sometimes used the ancient cemeteries to inhume modern bodies,
and modern articles in, which belonged to the deceased. They,
these guns and the farming tools, were probably articles of
Spanish, or Portuguese manufacture, which from the migratory
habits of the natives, may be easily conceived, as having been
brought or handed thus far north from Mexico or Brazil. As to
their having been interred into the side of the mound, the reason
may have been, that the top of it was encumbered with a tree or
trees. The guns were in a state of mutilation and decay.
Dr. Childers mentions an oak, which is on the wall of one of
the fortifications, which agreeably to the usual mode of compu-
ting the age of trees, by circles, must be three or four hundred
years old. But we incline to the opinion, that the age of these
ancient fortifications, must be extended back to a period far more
distant than the trees indicate, or even the trees that bore their
acorns, indicate. We have already advanced the opinion that
those ancients who erected the mounds and fortifications on the
Kanhawa, in such numbers, were cultivators of the soil, and that
they did not, like the present savages, depend upon such a pre-
136 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
carious mode of existence as hunting and fishing, or at least, not
wholly.
We have a confirmation of this opinion from what we learn
of some parts of Georgia, in which ancient roads may be traced,
in the middle of which grow the lofty oak ; and in the stones,
in some of the most fertile districts, having been gathered, and
now found in heaps ; and in the soil being thinner upon the de-
clivities of some fertile hills, than upon their tops, from their hav-
ing been washed by rains whilst under cultivation. Intelligent
farmers, who of all mankind are least apt to be visionary, have,
as we are told, adopted the opinion generally from these facts, in
the most fertile parts of that State, that an ancient race of plant-
ers preceded them.
§ 10. Dr. Childers mentions one trait of aboriginal history,
which so far as we know, is unique. It is, that in the upper and
middle counties of that State, heaps of ashes are found, contain-
ing from one hundred to five hundred bushels. He remarks, that
when one of these heaps are found, others are found in^its neigh-
borhood, and that one heap is seldom found alone, and -sometimes
many on the area of an acre. It would seem then, that these
ancient planters, did not know the use of ashes as a manure, and
that they so disposed of them as least to encumber the ground.
Or did they, in clearing their plantations of trees, collect them
together into immense piles, and then set them on fire 1
We incline to the opinion that they were culinary ashes, brought
put from their dwellings, and thus deposited, from their contain-
ing pieces of earthenware. This, Dr. Childers tells us, was of
rude manufacture, and unglazed ; but carved on the outside with
various figures. He saw one piece whose circumference, or
periphery of circle, denoted a vessel of at least twenty inches
diameter.
But are we right in any of our conjectures about these ash-
heaps ?
When we were told that human bones were found among these
ashes, we thought of their being funeral piles, or piles where the
bodies of slain enemies were consumed, which might not be ad-
mitted into the mounds with those of the nation ; and we thought
of widows burning themselves.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 137
But from Indian prejudices, and superstitions, respecting their
dead, and from the care which they took of the hodies and bones
of their deceased friends and warriors, we inchne to the opinion,
that the bodies of their enemies might be forbidden their cemete-
ries, and were therefore disposed of as the ancient Romans dis-
posed of the bodies, both of friends and enemies, burned. The
bones found in these heaps appear to have been in the very last
stages of decay, and crumbled to dust immediately upon expo-
sure to the air.
There may have been local customs among the aboriginals, as
there was, and is now, among them and all other nations. We
do not recollect that Dr. Robertson, in his History of Spanish
America, mentions any thing of the kind, or Humboldt in his
Travels, or Clavigero, or the Abbe Molina, in their histories of
South America.
After all, if Virginia, and Ohio, and Georgia, once had a race
of natives who cultivated the soil, what need is there for suppo-
sing that they were exterminated 1 Why may we not conclude
that they were only driven away further south ?
Molina says, contrary to Dr. Robertson, that the Chilians were
not hunters, when the Spaniards first arrived, but that they had
passed from the hunter state to that of husbandmen. He men-
tions their cultivation of potatoes, Indian corn, or maize, pom-
pions, &c. He mentions cider as having been made of wild ap-
ples, and other wild fruits, and as being the drink of the inhabit-
ants of the Archipelago of Chiloe. He also mentions native
brass in Chili.
§ 11. The Baron Humboldt tells us, that in those parts of
America in which the natives did not cultivate the soil, that they
were not attached to it, and that they left it and retired to other
parts at the approach of the Europeans ; but that the natives of
tho southern parts of Anahuac,* and some other tracts, were so
much attached to the country which their forefathers had cultiva-
ted, that they suffered cruel vexations rather than leave it. His
conclusions coincide also with the Indian tradition, that they came
from the North. He supposes that the Toultees appeared in
* Now called New Spain.
138 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
South America as early as 648. To them he imputes those pyra-
mids which are yet admired, and whose faces are laid out with
accuracy. To them he gives the credit of having introduced
maize and cotton, and says that they could cut the hardest stones,
and paint in hieroglyphics, and that they had a solar year more
perfect than that of the Greeks and Romans.
Why then is it wonderful that some remains of a more civilized
race than that of the present savages, should exist in Georgia,
Kentucky, Virginia, Ohio, and even as far north as Jefferson
county in New York ] and even in Ouisconsin 1 Why is it more
wonderful that the northern Indians erected fortifications and
mounds, than that those of the south built pyramids, and forged
metals, and constructed bridges, and manufactured cotton 1
It seems quite as mysterious why some of the inhabitants of
the New World, were in a state of comparative civilization, and
had cultivated the arts, whilst other parts of it even at the south,
were as savage as those of the north are at this time.
Dr. Robertson mentions that the natives of Bogota and the
Natchez, were far more advanced towards the civilized state, than
in the surrounding tracts of country. But he, like the Baron
Humboldt, leaves the reason why, an unexplained mystery. The
Baron refers to the north-west coast, between Nootka and Cook
river, and under N. lat. 57° for superior acquisitions ; and speaks
of their hieroglyphical paintings, and especially of a harp, which
is at least as remarkable as the famous harp in the tomb of the
king of Thebes. But he, although a scientific traveller, unravels
few mysteries. In fact his writings tend to increase the difficul-
ty of the problem, as it respects the derivation of the inhabitants
of the western continent from that of the eastern.
It is indeed difficult to decide from what race, or from what
part of the eastern people they could have emanated. Not from
shepherds, or a pastoral community, because they knew not the
use of milk. Not from agriculturalists, because they brought no
wheat, rye, barley, or oats, with them. And while it has been
wildly and madly supposed, that the first emigrants might have
brought over useless and destructive animals, and even noxious
reptiles, and hurtful insects, it has scarce been noticed that they
left all the precious grains behind. Would a man who was going
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 139
a voyage of three thousand miles, take in alJigators, and leave his
cows behind, his oxen and his sheep 1
§ 12. The Mexicans were acquainted with the use of sea-sail,
and used to boil in earthen pans, the salt water from certain pits,
to procure it. But the natives more northerly, did not know its
use, nor do they on the north-west coast, or beyond the Mississip-
pi, know it to this day, except that some may have learned it from
the whites. This seems to denote that the Mexicans learned the
use of this article for themselves, either by appetite, or accident,
or experiment. Had it been brought from the Old World, as an
article for seasoning and preserving food, or had the knowledge
of it been brought from thence, how was this knowledge lost,
nearest to its source, and not found till Mexico was reached 1
The national character of the northern tribes, seems to ap-
proach the definition of William Penn's of a great man—that it
does not consist so much in doing great things, as in suffering
great miseries, without complaining. The Indians had this char-
acter of greatness, and still retain it, to the great chagrin of the
missionary who would convert them, and to the school-master
who would teach them, to the legislator who would learn them
laws, and to the soldier who would subdue them.
The barbarous independence of the natives, resembles that of
some barbarians with white faces, who spurn all the restraints
and self-control which health, happiness, and competence would
teach. The natives have rejected many useful things from dis-
like to those who use them. But it is almost sufficient of itself
to disprove their origin from the eastern continent, that they did
not know the use of salt and milk, as they are tenacious of cus-
toms derived from their ancestors, to the last degree.
Salt is so highly esteemed among some nations as to be used as
a common term for all kinds of food, as bread is with us. It
seems also to have been used as a generic term for the payment of
a stipend ; as from salt, sal, comes salary.
It was a part of the law, ecclesiastical, that every oblation should
be seasoned with salt. This article seems indeed to have had
a higher rank than any other ; it having been used as a sacred
seal in making covenants—" neither shalt thou suffer the salt of
140 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat offering:
with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt." And again, " it is
a covenant of salt for ever before the Lord unto thee, and to thy
seed with thee."
Had those who have written with an intention to prove that the
Indians were the descendants of the lost ten tribes of the Jews,
considered this part of the canon, and had they known that the
natives knew not the use of salt, they would probably have spared
themselves their labor.
§ 13. The ultimate principles of all aliments, animal and
vegetable, are the same.* These are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon,
and azote. But salt, or the muriate of soda, is a condiment in
preserving meat, producing digestion, and preserving health. It
is relished by man, and sought after by animals, which are pas-
tured at a distance from the sea. Where they are kept within a
certain distance of the salt water, the sea air suffices, without the
salt itself. The saline springs of the west, and the celebrated
springs of Saratoga and Ballston, were discovered by animals,
and especially deer, being seen to resort to them.
The lamas and apalcos of the south, and the bison and buffalo
of the north, would have afforded milk to the Indians, had they
known its use.
The similarity of the natives to the Tartars, has been used as
an argument for the former havino^ been the descendants of the
latter. But here the same difficulty occurs as to salt and milk, to-
gether with another, relating to language ; that of the Tartars
being barren, and consisting, as it is said, of but a very small
number of words ; whereas, in Spanish America alone, the Baron
Humboldt found no less than twenty languages ; and he is care-
ful to tell us that these were not dialects, of one or a few lan-
guages, as some have supposed, but that they were as different
from one another as the Greek and German, or the French and
Polish. He also informs us what seems at first almost incredible,
that fourteen of these languages have grammars and dictionaries,
as he expresses it, tolerably complete.
* There may be shades of difference which chemistry has not reached. Ani-
mal and vegetable charcoal, have properties entirely different.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 141
In relation to the aboriginal mode of living, it is worthy of no-
tice, that where the natives were treated with the most lenity, and
in consequence, as we may suppose, adopted the diet and cus-
toms of the Europeans, that they have rapidly diminished in
numbers ; whereas, where they were treated with such inhuman-
ity, as they were by Cortez, and the other Spaniards, as to make
their customs odious, and of course where they persisted in their
former habits with most pertinacity, there their population has
least diminished. By a late census of Mexico, there were eight
millions of inhabitants, and one half Indians ; whilst in Penn-
sylvania, where William Penn treated them with the greatest hu-
manity, Indians are rare, and about Philadelphia, very seldom
seen.
A young man aged twenty-eight years, who attended the uni-
versity lectures in that city, with the present writer, from one of
the counties of that state, informed me that he had never seen an
Indian in his life. And in New England, where great attention
has been paid to them, in all respects, they have rapidly dwindled
away. This goes far to show that there is some hazard in com-
munities, and even in individuals, changing their accustomed
habits of living, even for those which are apparently better.
§ 14. We incline to the opinion that the world must have
been peopled before it was divided into continents and islands,
both with men and animals. The difficulty of transporting use-
ful animals, and the improbability of those having been trans-
ported which were useless, worthless, destructive by their claws,
teeth and horns, and noxious by their poisons, seems too great to
favor the idea that they would have been removed from one conti-
nent to another, and from a continent to a distant island. There
are difficulties attending any view which can be taken of the
subject, but of difficulties and evils, we must choose the least.
§ 15. Linnasus, a very eminent and pious naturalist and bot-
anist, of Sweden, supposed that the inhabited part of the globe,
was once confined to one spot—that this spot was originally laid
bare by the partial subsidence of the waters ; and that man and
all the original species of animals were there assembled.
13
142 THE TONGUE OF TIME,
All temperatures, he imagined, were to be there found concen-
trated among hills, mountains and vallies, inclosing regions,
warm and cold. We know that such regions exist at the present
day. A high mountain in a tropical climate, having eternal win-
ter on its top, and constant summer at its base, with all the inter-
mediate temperatures between. Such a region would eminently
qualify, men and animals to become the inhabitants of the various
and different hot and cold climates of the globe. It is self evi-
dent that tropical animals could not have travelled to America
through the polar regions ; but it is no new opinion that the conti-
nents once joined, and that the islands also joined the continents.
We may refer to Grotius, Acosta, Buffon and others, as having
entertained this opinion. We must account for their separation
by the agency of earthquakes at first, and to the agency of winds
and of water increasing the distance to the extent now found to
exist.
Africa is distant one thousand five hundred miles from the near-
est part of America. The elements are in a constant state of
warfare, and we must consider winds, waters, and fires, constantly
at work in changing the earth. When we cast our eyes on a
map of the world, we never fail to conclude that the gulf of Mex-
ico was blown into its present situation—that the constant attrition
of the waters have in the course of time carried away the plains,
and left the high lands in the shape of the West India Islands.
This attrition of waters was caused by the trade winds.
These winds now, as ever, are in motion, and are the cause of
an extraordinary phenomenon—the gulf stream—a river running
in the sea, from forty to fifty miles wide, and more than one
thousand five hundred miles in length. It now runs a northerly
course, at the distance of about seventy-five miles from the south-
ern states, till it reaches the banks of Newfoundland, when it
takes a southerly du'ection, reaches the coast of Africa, where
it is lost by filling the void which the trade winds had made, by
blowing away the African waters, into the gulf of Mexico. We
conjecture that an earthquake may have sunk a part of the Old
World, now the liquid space between Africa and St. Roque, in
South America ; and that the gulf stream might have formerly
taken a southern instead of a northern direction, as at present,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 143
and have completed the vast chasm now existing, of one thousand
five hundred miles ; and that the present northerly direction of
this stream of the sea, was caused by a wider space of ocean,
being in time immense, formed southwardly of the stream, by the
washing away of the now two continents. An inspection of a
map of the world will justify, at least, some part of this hypothe-
sis. The north and north-west winds, in North America, ars
powerful winds, and the latter, in winter, long continued. Why
these winds should not turn the gulf stream in a southerly direc-
tion, must be accounted for from the immense unbroken Atlantic
and Ethiopic oceans lying in an eastern and south-eastern direc-
tion from the gulf of Mexico.* But to the westerly and north-
westerly winds, must be referred the cause of the gulf stream
running at the distance that it does from the shores of America.
Were it not for these, this stream would run along quite in contact
with the coast. The trade winds may therefore be considered as
pihng up the waters, and keeping them from spreading, on the
eastern side, and the winds from the continent, on the western
side, acting as the banks of a river on either side, to keep the
gulf stream in its place. But a N. E. wind narrows it, and drives
it nearer our shores. It is however to be noticed, that this stream
runs no farther north than Newfoundland, and that it then takes a
southerly course along and among the Azores, or Western Isles,
to the African coast.
This turning south of the gulf stream-, must in part be imputed
to the northerly winds meeting it, and in part to the lower surface
of the ocean on the coast of Africa ; the latter being occasioned
by the piling up of the waters in the gulf of Mexico, by the con-
stant trade winds blowing west ; and that winds may pile up wa-
ters, we know from having seen the streets so flooded in a torna-
do, that boats have been rowed up to houses, and taken out the
occupants at the windows. This occurrence took place during
the great gale of September, 1815 ; when a vessel was driven up
into the middle of Pleasant street, in Providence, R. I. near the
theatre. There we saw it lying, out of sight of water, after the
gale had subsided, and the waters of the river had returned to
their accustomed channel.
* See map of the world.
^^^ THE TONGUE OF TIME,
A very similar tornado, just one hundred and eighty years and
a month preceding, and fifteen years after the first settlement at
Plymouth, in New England, is upon record * The water then
rose twenty feet perpendicular. The invasion of both was about
the same time ; both being in the morning, a little before day
;
and in both the wind blew from the south-east. The Indians in
the first, had to -];^^^ ^^^ ^^,^^^ ^^ prevent being drowned. Some
lives were lost in each ; six in that of 1815, in the town of South
Kingston, R. I. In this town, the force of the wind and water
deepened a shallow passage from the ocean into Point Judith
pond adjacent, to fifteen feet, which before the gale, the present
writer had often rode through on horseback ; the depth of the
water being less than two feet at that time.
When this occurrence is considered, and when looking on the
map of the world, at the wide ocean between Africa and Ameri-
ca, we cannot but surmise that similar causes, upon a large scale,
might have, in thousands of years, done what this tornado in a
few hours, produced a miniature picture of.
In the gale of 1815, it rained, and the rain which fell was salt
as the ocean ; it leaving saline marks on the glass of windows,
more than thirty miles from the ocean.
§ 16. Had the aboriginal inhabitants of America been found
negroes, instead of Indians, the joining of the two continents at
some remote period, would, we are aware, appear more plausible.
But this difiiculty, we mean that of the dissimilarity of the In-
dians, their manners, and customs, and language, to other nations,
and to the negroes, are problems to be met, adopt what theory we
may, in respect to deriving them from the Old World.
The Goths, Vandals, and other barbarians, who overran Italy,
appear to have wrought great changes in Europe, in almost or
quite everything; and the ancient Roman tongue was, by a
gradual compact, between the conquerors and the conquered,
changed into the modern ItaUan. So that the present language
of Rome, may be considered as a dialect of the ancient Latin.
In the other parts of Europe, there are traces of the barbarous
languages, in the Teutonic and Sclavonic. But the number of
* See New England's Memorial—Year 1665, pa. 103.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 145
languages amongst the Scandinavians, who poured their savage
hordes upon civilized Europe, appears to have been few. The
languages of Germany and England, are of Teutonic origin
;
and most of the modern languages of Europe, are a mixture of
German and Latin, or Teutonic and Latin. From Portugal to
Sicily, the language of all the people and nations is of this mix-
ture. The Spanish, the French, and Italian, are all from the
same source ; and as M. Sismondi says, who has investigated
with philosophic patience, and written with classical elegance,
upon the matter, that the diversities which exist, arise rather from
accidental circumstances, than from any distinction between these
different races of men. Each of these tongues, he says, is
founded upon the Latin, but the form is often barbarous. A great
number of the words were introduced into these languages by the
conquerors, but by far the greater number, belong to the conquer-
ed people.
The Moors, who possessed Spain, were in fact Arabians, and
carried thither their learning and books ; both of which from
thence spread over Europe. Paper, the numerals, called Arabic,
and the compass, and gunpowder, were known to the Arabians,
before they were known in Europe.
On the borders of the Danube, the Bulgarians, and Wallachi-
ans, speak a language known as the descendant of the Latin, and
which those who know Italian, can comprehend. And the Poles
and Hungarians, speak so good Latin, that a classical scholar can
hold conversation with them.
Although to the Arabians we owe so many useful inventions,
to them we are little or nothing, as respects language, indebted.
The languages of modern Europe are few in number, and mostly
dialects of the Latin and Teutonic. And when words are deri-
ved from other sources, as from the Hebrew, Greek, Saxon, arid
Sclavonian, they are easily traced.
§ 17. We have adverted to the comparative scarcity of ori-
ginal languages in Europe, compared with their great number in
South America. The Baron Humboldt found no less than twen-
ty, which were entirely distinct, and not dialects. Another wri-
ter, who had perhaps a better, or more extensive opportunity of
13*
146 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
examining the same subject, makes them no less than thirty-five.
And in neither calculation, is the unknown amount embraced, of
the Indians in the northern parts of North America. The Rus-
sian alphabet, as Madame de Stael tells us, resembles the Greek.
There is clearly no nation in Europe, from whom the Indians
could have derived their languages. The coincidences of simi-
lar words, are so few as to fail entirely of any kind of proof from
that source ; and when resort is had, as it has been had by Pres-
ident Edwards, and Elias Boudinot, to assimilate the words of one
or two tribes in North America, in a few instances, with the He-
brew, the analogies were so doubtful of identity, and so few in
number, that we are sure that the writers themselves could have
had little or no confidence in their own examples. But even if
the instances could be indefinitely multiplied, not one of them
would probably apply to the thirty or forty discrepant languages
of South America, differing as they do radically, among them-
selves, and not being dialects of each other, or of any known de-
rivation, or common stock.
Could we point to any, or many barbarous nations of the Old
World, who had a great variety of different languages, we might
infer, that it was usual for savages to have no settled orthography,
but to have a Babel among themselves. And here we believe the
attempt has in one instance been made ; as Mr. Boudinot refers
to Sir William Jones, as having been informed by a Mr. Hyde,
that the language of the Tartars, like those in America, was in
perpetual fluctuation, and that more than fifty dialects were spo-
ken between Moscow and China, by the many hundred tribes,
and their several branches. We are clear that if the American
aboriginals were derived from any nation now in the eastern con-
tinent, that it must have been the Tartars.
§ 18. But when the antiquities of America, in the north and
in the south, are taken into view, it is impossible to satisfy our-
selves that the Indians are of the Tartar race, or that they are the
lost ten tribes of the Jews, as Mr. Boudinot has written a book to
endeavor to prove. Even if the fact adduced from Sir William
Jones, be admitted, respecting the fifty dialects of the Tartar
hordes, they are spoken of as nothing but dialects, or derivatives
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 147
from a common source, or from each other, and not as radically
different, like those of America. In neither case would a glim-
mer of light be thrown upon those ancient structures, the mounds
and fortifications of the North, and the Pyramids, and remains
of ancient cities, in the South. No one supposes that the Jews
or the Tartars ever built pyramids.
But pyramids are still standing in America, one of one hun-
dred and eighty-eight feet and four inches in height, and of one
thousand four hundred and sixty-seven feet and eleven inches
This is at Cholula ; the measure we have given in English
;
and although not so high as the highest Egyptian pyramid, that
at Cheops, yet the Baron Humboldt remarks, that the one at Cho-
lula, has the longest base of any pyramid in the known world.
The Egyptian pyramids are built of stone, all except one,
which is of brick. Those of America are of brick, all except
one, which is of stone. This last, is the pyramid of Popantla,
near Vera Cruz, and is of beautiful whin stone, faced with amyg-
daloid.
Both in Egypt and America, these immense and costly struc-
tures are beyond the reach of history or even of tradition. No
doubt but that in both countries their design was the same, that of
sepulchral monuments. Kings who considered the shortness of
148 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
life, and perhaps some of them, of the few opportunities which
they had to make their names celebrated, and to immortalize
their memories, might, when their pride, ambition, and resources,
were great, seek in the pyramid for a supposed never ending
glory after death. It is not probable that they were designed for
the purpose for which the tower of Babel was begun, that of
guarding against a flood which had covered the highest moun-
tains. Had this been the design, these structures would have
been upon mountain tops, whereas, they were some of them on
plains, and none of them on heights.
But these immense brick structures, and the more costly stone
one, of a hard species of basaltes, or whin-stone, and amygda-
loid, could only have been erected when power, and wealth, and
skill, were more elevated, than they could be found when Colum-
bus discovered the New World, and the Spaniards conquered it.
And in every possible point of view that can be reasonably taken,
the country must have been long settled, and agriculture and the
arts in a high state of perfection, before they could have been
erected at all.
That they must have been designed for monuments, and nei-
ther for fortresses, nor store-houses, nor habitations, is self evident,
for there were no apartments, the whole inside being filled up
with brick and clay.*
The sepulchral earth mounds of the north, were imitations of
these more costly structures of the south. They were humble
aspirants of the same, or aiming at the same shape.
How far north the custom of building pyramidical structures
had reached, may have not yet been fully ascertained. We have
no data to show that Indians in New England ever built any, or
ever inhumed their dead in mounds. Nor have we ever learned,
until quite lately, that any thing more than pyramids of earth,
have ever been found north of Mexico. A very recent account,
however, that now lies before us, states that a number of mounds
have been recently discovered in Licking county, in the state of
Pennsylvania, and that one of them, of fifteen feet in height, and
of sixty feet base, is formed of sand-stone. And what is suffi-
* We speak here of American pyramids. Those of Egypt had apartments
;
in one room of one uf them, was a stone sarcophagus.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 149
ciently noticeable is, that there is no sand-stone to be found any
where in the neighborhood of this unaccountable buiJding. There
are however heaps of Indian arrow heads near by.
§ 10. It is remarkable that the pyramids of America, hke
those of Egypt, are built by stages. Those of Egypt being usu-
ally of five, and those of America of four stages each, in height.
The American pyramids are situated in New Spain, of which
Mexico is the capital. The whole lie in North America, although
often spoken, and even written of, as lying in South America.
We have before noticed the fertility of soil in which the anti-
quities of the United States are found. And we may notice
Mexico, in which pyramids and palaces of unknown antiquity
stand, as the most fertile part of the New World, and comparable
with that country which the Nile overflows. We speak of its
vallies, which like Egypt, are sometimes overflowed, and always
fertilized, by its mountain floods. And we may also observe, that
New Spain, or the province of Mexico, is almost three times as
large as the kingdom of the Pharaohs.
This serves to show that both these distant, very distant, parts
of the globe, in which pyramids were erected, owed the origin
of their riches to the land, and to its being cultivated. And we
have reason to suppose, from the silence of history respecting
these structures, both in Egypt and in Mexico, that the periods
when they rose, were prosperous and happy ones ; for kingdoms
are never so happy, as when no wars, revolutions, nor insurrec-
tions, afford any thing for historians to record.
Egypt is a country as old as any history, sacred or profane,
can be said to reach. From the banks of the Nile, corn was
carried into Judea, and knowledge into Greece, in the earliest
ages. But even before corn was carried into Judea, Abraham,
the founder of the Jewish nation, with Sarah his wife, were driven
into Egypt on account of famine.
We incline to think that the pyramids of Mexico, may be coe-
val with those of the Old World, and that their erection took
place prior to those disruptions which afterwards divided the world
into the present continents. That the same abundance in each
country would lead to the same ambition, and that the results
150 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
would lead to the rearing of similar structures, by men of the
same era, seems extremely probable.
§ 20. The Mexican pyramids of Teotchuacan, were visited
by Lieut. Glennie, R. N. recently ; and his communication respect-
ing them was read before the London Geographical Society.
The village of Teotchuacan, is elevated seven thousand four
hundred ninety-two feet above the level of the sea. Its lat. N. 19**
43' and long. 98° 5V W. It is about a mile and a half from the
ocean. The largest of these pyramids is seven hundred and
twenty-seven feet square at its base, and two hundred and twen-
ty-one feet in height. It stands due north and south, i. e. having
two of its sides parallel to the meridian. About three hundred
and fifty feet from the base of this ancient structure, there is a
rampart, which after the long lapse of ages which have passed
since it was erected, is still thirty feet in height. On the north
side of this rampart are the remains of a flight of steps. From
these steps there is a road leading in a northerly direction, and
they are covered with a white cement. The remains of steps
were also found on the pyramids, which were covered with the
same sort of white cement, as were also the broad terraces, which
the Baron Humboldt called stages.
But the number of small pyramids surrounding the large one
was estimated by Mr. Glennie at two hundred and upwards, and
makes this spot, the citi/ ofpyramids.
The Indians call the two largest pyramids the sun and moon,
and the small ones the stars. The small pyramids vary in their
dimensions, but they are all built of the same material, which is
volcanic stone, and plaster, or clay, from the adjacent soil. And
they are all coated with cement.
The ground between the bases of these pyramids, appears to
have been used as streets by the antediluvian dwellers. And what
places the wealth and luxury of the times in a most striking light,
the streets themselves were covered, or paved with cement
!
One of the smaller pyramids was covered with a kind of broken
pottery, which was ornamented with curious figures and devices.
In the neighborhood of these edifices, a great number of small
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 151
figures were found, such as heads, arms, legs, &c. &c. moulded
out of clay, and hardened by fire.
We do not recollect that M. Humboldt mentions this city of
pyramids, although he mentions a cluster of them somewhat simi-
lar. What confirms us in the opinion that it was not the same,
is, that the Baron tells us that the pyramids which he visited were
all built of brick, with the exception of one only. This one stood
at Popantia, near Vera Cruz, and was constructed of wliin-stone,
and faced with amygnaloid. Whereas, those which Lieut. Glen-
nie describes, were all built of volcanic stone, and covered with
cement.
That the erection of pyramids is very ancient, and that these
strange structures derived their origin from the attempt to build a
place or places of security against another flood, seems most
probable. And that they may have been raised for ornament, or
for a display of fancied splendor, when the original design and
utility of their prototype was lost, even in tradition, may be in-
ferred.
Bishop Heber found among the pagans of the East Indies, a
tradition still in existence, of what is supposed by some to have
been the first of all attempts to construct a pyramid. His guide,
Abdallah, telhng him that JumsTieed Jum, was the first who built
in brick—adding that it was he who built the tower of Babel, four
thousand seven hundred years ago ! We have thus the name of
the principal artificer, and the chronology of that event.
§ 21. We have seen it stated, that the word sack^ is retained
in all languages ; that being the only Avord which all the work-
men remembered of their former dialect, at the confusion of
tongues ; and that all the Babel-builders, when they found that
they could proceed no further with the building, called out for
sacks, to carry ofi* their tools in.
We do not think that the authority for this opinion is of the
highest order. But the word, at any rate, is derived from the
Hebrew, and may be probably found in all written languages.
§ 22. The opinion advanced respecting the antediluvian ori-
gin of the Egyptian pyramids, cannot be maintained in conjunc-
152 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
tion with that which makes them substitutes, or imitations of the
tower of Babel, because the latter was built since the flood.
§ 23. That this continent, and a great part of its inhabitants,
were in the state of the eastern continent during the dark ages,
seems as probable as that the Egyptians, Grecians, and Romans,
all deteriorated from their ancient splendor. The remains of
antiquity, of a period immensely past, are annually developing
themselves in the New World. And should any method be found
of decyphering the meaning of its hyeroglyphics, of which we do
not despair, we may yet discover who were its ancient inhabitants.
A man in preparing a piece of rock for a mill-stone, in the
town of Salem, Ohio, after removing three inches of its solid sur-
face, came to holes which had been made into it by art. But what
was still more extraordinary, he came to two iron wedges, one of
which had a thin strip of iron each side of it, after the method of
splitting rocks at this day. Here was three inches of sohd rock
formed over these wedges since they were driven there !
That iron, excluded from the air, in rock, would remain for
any length of time without becoming oxydated, or destroyed by
rust, we can easily conceive. But it is still wonderful, that during
the formation of three inches of stony matter over these wedges,
that the action of air and water should not have destroyed their
texture.
There are other facts in geology equally curious, and equally
mysterious, in the Old World.
We have an account, for instance, given by Professor Silliman,
from Count Bournon's Mineralogy, of stumps of columns, and
fragments of stones half wrought, with coins, and the handles of
hammers, at the depth of fifty feet, beneath the layers of eleven
beds of compact limestone. But what principally commanded
the attention of the workmen, was a board of about an inch in
thickness, and seven or eight feet long. This board was broken
into many pieces, of which none were lacking. And it appeared
to be, if united by putting the pieces in order, a board of the same
form as is used at the present day in quarrying stone ; it being
worn in the same manner, having its edges rounded and waving.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. *
153
Tliese remains of immense antiquity, (the smaller parts of the
board, and the wooden instruments, and pieces of instruments,
being changed into agate,) were found at Aix, in Provence,
France, in the years 1786, 1787, and 1788. The workmen were
quarrying stone for the rebuilding, upon a vast scale, the Palace
of Justice.
Another geological fact of some interest is from the London
Quarterly review.
Workmen were engaged in quarrying stone at Oreston, on the
eastern shore of Catwater, for the celebrated breakwater at Ply-
mouth, England. The material of this Oreston quarry, is com-
pact, close grained marble ; but there are seams of clay interposed
occasionally, of considerable extent ; and some cavities are found
in the marble, which have no clay, but are empty.
It was in a bed of clay, forty-five feet long, and twelve feet
deep, and fifteen feet wide, inclosed on every side with solid rock,
that fossil bones were found, in a high state of preservation
—
insomuch, that Sir Everard Home said, that he had never observ-
ed better specimens. They were portions of three different skele-
tons of the rhinoceros. The part of the cavity in which they
were found, was seventy feet below the surface of the solid marble
rock !*
§ 24. There is something in Cattaraugus county, N. Y. which
merits notice, and a more scientific examination. It is in the
town of Draubulainville, or not far from it, on the brow of a hill.
About a hundred acres has rocks in resemblance of the founda-
tions of the houses of a city. These apparently rocky scites of
ancient houses, are situated by the side of streets ; and curious
to relate, these streets cross each other at right angles.
Some of the streets are covered over, so that the traveller may
walk under cover, in what are supposed to be streets not formed
by art, but by the sportive hand of nature.
This latter hypothesis requires further examination, however,
before it is decided. We incline to think that the relics of an
ancient city are there to be found.
* See Silliman's Journal of Science, Vol. 2, No. 1, p. 144. Also, Q,uarterly
Review, for Dec. 1819, No. 43.
14
154 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
§ 25. Chronology and history, are contained in the bowels of
the earth. Geologists may draw the age of the world from cer-
tain changes of known substances, which have taken place within
periods which can be ascertained. We look to Herculaneum and
Pompeii, for data of this kind, but not to them alone.
What has been already noticed as to the discoveries made at
Provence, in France, and at Oreston in England, ought to stimu-
late to observation. Eleven beds of limestone were found to cover
the remains of the labors of the ancient quarrymen, at Aix.
Correct observation, will no doubt be able to discover how long
an inch, or a few lines of limestone is in forming. And then the
length of time for forming fifty feet, could be easily calculated.
And as the handles of the tools, which were of wood, and the
thinner part of the board, were changed into agate, should the
like changes be found to have taken place in those ancient cities,
we might be able to deduce some data as to the chronology of
other remains in other places ; the time that these cities were
buried being very well known to have occurred A. D. 79, in the
reign of Titus. There is some doubt, however, whether the man-
ner in which they were buried would be favorable to those phe-
nomena which occur in other places, in the bowels of the earth.
Herculaneum and Pompeii both being first covered over by
an immense shower of ashes, which fell on the roofs of the build-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 155
ings, several inches in depth. These were thrown out at the cra-
ter of Mount Vesuvius. After this eruption of ashes, followed an
eruption of lava, melted by the intensity of the internal heat of the
mountain. This flowed towards these devoted cities, and finally
reached them, filled their streets, and covered the roofs of the
houses, which it did not consume, owing to the quantity of ashes
with which they were covered. Many roofs were, however,
crushed beneath the load of lava.
Herculaneum was discovered by some workmen reaching
the house tops when engaged in digging a well. But if in the
streets themselves, petrifactions should not be found, the roots and
stumps of trees, and wood and timber found beneath the surface,
would undoubtedly afibrd them. And thus some conclusion
might be arrived at, as to the length of time that it takes for wood
and timber to become petrified.
Petrified ears of corn, impregnated with silver, copper, and
other metals, have been found on heights where corn does not now
grow. The trunk of a petrified tree has been found upon Mount
Stella, a part of the Alps in Italy, in the country of the Grisons,
at four thousand feet above the height where even shrubs at pre-
sent vegetate.
In Spain, near the tower of Munda, at an elevation of one
thousand five hundred feet above the sea, are to be found beds of
wood in a petrified state. And it is said, that the tops of the
Andes, thirteen thousand two hundred feet high, are covered with
oyster shells. The strata in the environs of Pans, have furnished
no less than sixty genera of fossil animals.
But the most extraordinary of all geological facts is, that the
impressions of plants found in Europe, are generally those of the
tropical climates of America and India.
§ 26. This would seem to show, that the whole globe has
been pushed, or attracted further towards the north star, than it
originally was. We incline to think, that the increase of iron,
and the gradual growth of iron ore, on and in the globe, and in
the blood of animals and men, as they multiply, may be so great,
that the whole terrestrial ball, as it diurnally whirls around, from
west to east, may gradually be drawn north !
156 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
No country can alter its relative position, with respect to other
countries and continents, to be sure. But that the whole mass,
as it rolls upon its own axis, in empty space, may, by the power-
ful action of polarity, progress further into the northern universe,
is the position which has, upon this difficult point, occurred to us.
Another view of which, however, maybe taken—which is, that
the internal fires of the earth may, at certain remote periods, have
been so powerful as to have caused tropical plants once to have
flourished in arctic regions.
And it is not impossible that both these causes may have acted
in combination, in order to produce a result so deeply mysterious,
and which to every geologist and philosopher, is so profoundly
interesting. And there is a third cause worthy of notice, and
which may probably by some be deemed the principal. It is a
diminution of the heat of the sun. How is it, that the heat which
heats the world, is produced, unless by the consuming, or the de-
flagration of combustibles 1
§ 27. The sun, that has been warming and hghting the world
ever since the creation, must reasonably be supposed to have un-
dergone, in that vast space of time, some diminution in the extent
and intensity of its influence. Some abatement of its fires, which
are succeeded by dark spots on its disk, visible to the eye. We
may view the sun likewise, as differing primarily in its different
parts, as to the amount, the quantity, the ardency of its heat. An
orb which is more than two millions six hundred and thirty-
two thousand English miles in circumference, may easily be con-
ceived to vary in its different points. We may consider it as
having volcanoes upon every part of its surface, which are fed by
the constant combustion of inflammable materials, within its inte-
rior ; and that some of these volcanoes are immensely large and
active, others smaller and of less energy, whilst others are extinct,
and have for the present ceased to throw out flame, light, and
heat. Hence the climate of the same country may, and does
vary, in the same season of diff'erent years, owing to more and
hotter rays of the sun being sent forth.
And the mean temperature of similar, or of the same identical
latitude, in different countries, may vary very considerably, owing
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 16t
to the greater evolution of heat, in the rays of the sun, when one
part of the same meridional line is exposed to those rays, than
when another part of it is.
The same cause may likewise make a country lying more
northerly, warmer than another lying considerably further south.
A^ a remarkable instance of this, among others equally remark-
able, that might be adduced, Paris, which is situated in lat. 48° 50'
has a mean temperature very nearly two degrees higher than
Cambridge in New England, whilst the latter is situated more
than five degrees more southerly ! it lying in N. lat. 42° 23'.
This more powerful action of the sun upon northerly regions,
renders them habitable, and able to produce corn to support the
inhabitants. Otherwise, Lapland, and some parts of Russia,
Siberia, and Norway, and other northern climes, would be unin-
habitable at all by man. And on the other hand, the opinion of
the ancients respecting the tropics would be realized, for did the
sun emit as vivid rays, between them, and with an ardency propor-
tioned to Its nearness, neither grass, nor fruit, nor man, nor beast,
could endure the heat. All would be burnt up. It is therefore
manifest, that the northern limb of the sun emits the hottest fires.
§ 28. It was an idea entertained by the astronomers and phi-
losophers of ancient times, who had visited tropical and equato-
rial countries, that they were uninhabitable from the violence of
the heat. Climates were determined, not by latitude, which they
did not know how to calculate, but by the qualities of the inhabi-
tants, and of the animals.
A negro, or Ethiopian, denoted a hot climate, as did an
elephant and rhinoceros. These were found in Africa, a country
which is divided from Europe by the Mediterranean ; and al-
though in some parts that sea is narrow, yet the men, the animals,
the trees, and the soil, differ immensely from each other, upon
its southern and northern shores. But these discrepancies are
by no means sustained throughout the world. Charleston, for
instance, the capital of South Carolina, lies four degrees south of
Carthage, in Africa ;
yet the negro, the elephant, nor the rhinoce-
ros were neither of them natives of Carolina.
14*
158 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Other causes than those depending upon the heat of the sun,
or the cold of the poles, alter climates. The sandy soil and ab-
sence of verdure, as well as the non-existence of springs, rivers,
rivulets, and lakes, make Africa, in the same parallel of latitude,
much hotter than America, where all these are found. Indeed,
the abundance of our waters may be one reason, and a prej|y
powerful and prevailing one, why the continent of America is so
much colder than the parallel latitudes of the East. The evapo-
ration of water causes cold. The vapors rise high into the air
during summer, and descend in winter, formed into rain, snow,
hail, or cold, damp, piercing winds, sleet, or hoar-frost.
We have supposed that the northern limb of the sun emits the
hottest fires, and that the south pole, is colder than the north.
Indeed, the latter has been approached to within about six hun-
dred miles ; whilst circumnavigators, on account of the ice, have
not been able to penetrate beyond the seventy-second or seventy-
third degrees of south latitude, which is not nearer than one thou-
sand two hundred miles of the south pole. But there may be
another reason why the north is hotter than the south, as it has
been calculated that the sun is longer by the space of seven or
eight days on the northern side of the equator, than it is on its
southern side. Thus from March 21st, when the sun crosses the
equator northward, to the 23d of September, when it crosses it
southward, there are one hundred and eighty-six days; whilst
from September 23d, or the autumnal equinox, to the vernal equi-
nox on the 21st of March, is only the space of one hundred and
seventy-nine days.
Thus the natural order of things, pay a compliment to the
northern regions, which are far more extensive than the Southern,
as well as more populous ; there being more land, and more ani-
mals, north of the equator than south of it.
§ 29. The Aurora Borealis is termed by the northern sava-
ges, the dance of the spirits ; and shooting stars, are believed by
the Mahometans, to be shot at unfit and wicked persons, who ap-
proach too near the gates of Paradise.
An unprecedented aurora borealis, occurred on January 25,
1837. The glow of light was of a purple hue, and reflected a
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 159
dark red color on the snow, which covered the ground at the
time.
My first impression was, upon going out between the hours of
seven and eight o'clock in the evening, from visiting a patient,
that some large building, or village, was on fire. But this idea
vanished when the aurora was observed to spring up in vivid
streams, from all the northern regions, verging both east and
west, and streaming southerly. Its color may be produced by
any one, by putting a little iodine into a vial, and then pouring in
some spirits of turpentine. And the smoke which arises from
this mixture, resembles some of the darker shades of that north-
ern wonder. It was compared in New York, to a thousand rain-
bows, and was there said to have shades of blue and white.
We incline to the chemical theory, in accounting for the aurora
borealis, in conjunction with the agency of fire, or a lambent
flame, in the higher regions. The explosive energy of electrici-
ty, its rapid movements in lightning, and the absence of thunder
in the aurora, all militate against the electric theory of Franklin.
The purple aurora above referred to, was observed by Profes-
sor Olmsted, of New Haven, to affect the needle in an unusual
manner. Its fluctuations, at times, amounted to a whole degree
to the westward of its mean position.
160 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
The fine particles cast off from the polar star, in course of
time immense, and being combined with those particles emana-
ting from the sun, and other heavenly bodies, may account for
this phenomenon—this northern dawn.
The one of January 25th, was noticed the same night in Paris,
as well as New York. The northern lights are a new phenome-
non in this country. Their first appearance in New England,
was on the night of December 17th, 1719. They had been un-
known in Great Britain, at least in modern times, until March
6th, 1716.
§ 30. Ciudad del Palenque—signifying the city of the desert,
called also Otulum, from a river of that name running near it,
was such a striking monument of antiquity, that the king of Spain
ordered it to be examined. Immense and costly buildings of
hewn stone, and a vast range of ruins, were covered over by a thick
forest ; and trees, which by counting the concentric circles, ap-
peared to be nine hundred years old and upwards. Two hundred
men were twenty days in felling and burning the trees, and clear-
ing away the rubbish, so that a part of the ruins might be ex-
amined. These ruins extended more than eight leagues ! They
were sixty miles in circumference, and rather upwards, which is
more than ten times larger than the city of New York. Four-
teen massive buildings, all built of hewn stone, were found in
good preservation. The largest of these was a temple, which
stood upon a mound, sixty feet high. Another river, the river
Micol, winds round the base of the mountain, near where these
buildings stand, and is there, nearly two miles wide. Bas-
reliefs, hieroglyphics, remains of buildings civil, sacred and pub-
lic, viaducts, fortifications, and ruins, as far as the eye can reach,
fill the beholder with awe and admiration. Colkuacam, is one
name hj which some have called this city.
§ 31. There are in the Cumberland mountains, especially in
the neighborhood of Laurel ridge, Tennessee, many natural cu-
riosities. The vicinity abounds with caves, in which are vaulted
apartments, large and splendid, and which viewed by torch-light,
display a gloomy grandeur. It is a region of animal bones and
THE TONGUE OF TIME.
of petrifactions, both animal and vegetable,
and some of species of animals, now extinct.
161
Some are of men.
mi
si-'. ^.
Wmm^^^ms i«iJi^^
1^^
But the most interesting of all the discoveries yet made, is that
bj Messrs. Chester and Davis, about a mile beyond the Mammoth
Grotto, in the mountains referred to, in a cave which they discov-
ered themselves, of one hundred and twenty-five feet, into the
mountain. This cave is of difficult entrance, and in it was found
the bodies of two petrified men, and a petrified dog. One of the
men was holding a spear in his hand, in a balanced position, as
though he was surprised, and had just started on a quick walk.
The other is in a sitting posture, with his head as it were leaning
against a projected rock. The dog is in a laying posture, upon a
flat rock, as if crouched with terror, or as about to make a spring;
the features of the body, not being distinct enough to certainly
tell which. It is extremely difficult to conjecture, what caused
the death of the man in the erect posture, and how he should
have died standing erect, with a spear in his hand !
§ 32. So far as we have been able to trace the world, there is
something like system attending it in all ages. There has seldom
been a period, marked with wisdom, or monstrous for absurdity,
in one part of it, but that it has been parallelled in another. The
crusades of the Christians, were preceded by those of the Ma-
162 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
hometans. The miracles of Moses were imitated by the magi-
eiaas of Egypt. The period of witchcraft, so deemed in New
England, had in Germany, and in Scotland, the same mania, ac-
companied with enormities still greater. And so of individuals,
one man has not been found greatly in advance of another in his
career of military glory, of grand discoveries, of superstition, of
persecution, or of toleration. Julius Caesar had rivals in Pompey
the Great, anil Brutus. Buonaparte had to compete with a Wel-
lington and a Blucher. The great Sir Isaac Newton, had Locke,
and Halley, and Bentley, for contemporaries, and a rival in Leib-
nitz, who laid claim to some of his grand mathematical dis-
coveries. Hannibal, esteemed invincible, found a conqueror in
Scipio.
Persecution did not end when the yoke of the Pope was
thrown off, by the reformation. The protestants persecuted each
other in England ; and even in Switzerland, the civil and eccle-
siastical authorities had Manzius drowned for being re-baptized.
And Calvin had Servetus burned for denying the Trinity. Even
in Massachusetts, the descendants of the Pilgrims, persecuted the
Quakers.
But the present day is strikingly and luminously and beautiful-
ly marked with toleration, which has spread its cheering rays
throughout Christendom, and even reached the Grand Sultan, on
his throne at Constantinople ; whose course we admire, but whose
end, we fear, will be hastened by the jealous Mussulmen.
It is extremely difficult for those who live at an immense dis-
tance apart, as to time, or as to space, to penetrate the motives
which led to the construction of certain buildings, the fabric of
certain utensils, or the motives for certain acts of government, or
actions of individuals. We cannot, for instance, but admire that
wisdom which confounded the language of that people, who after
a flood which had covered the highest mountains, undertook to
rear a tower as a place of security against a future catastrophe of
the kind, upon a plain, the plain of Shinar ! And yet those
Babel-builders were our acknowledged forefathers. Reason
would teach us, that reasonable men would have chosen not a
plain, but high land, and even the highest mountain in the coun-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 163
try, for such a structure, and that otherwise it could not have been
the least security.
We cannot but think, but that with the confusion of languages
there was a confusion of ideas, among the descendants of the
Babel builders, of what the real intention of the ancient Babel
was undertaken for ; and that as these descendants were disper-
sed into distant parts of the then undivided globe, that they un-
dertook and did erect pyramids as an imitation of that on the
plain of Shinar. They did this without reason or utility, it is
true, but in these respects they copied after their fathers. It was
sufficient for them, that their eyes beheld something similar to
what the eyes of their fathers had gazed upon with admiration,
and that they had their example for what they did. A chord was
struck whose vibrations excited pleasure m the auditory nerves,
delighted the eye, and thrilled with extacy through the breast.
Such a chord, has now, ever had, and in all time, so long as
fathers have sons, and sons have fathers, and love of local habit-
ation inspires, will have, existence.
The Swiss pine for a view of their lofty mountains, when they
become the inhabitants of champaign countries ; and even the
inhabitants of the mountainous parts of New England, and those
who were dwellers on the sea-coast, when they remove into the
far west, feel a lack of the delight of their eye, and some never
seem to themselves at home, at a distance from their native moun-
tains and seas, where are nothing but plains and prairies to be
seen.
Such human nature is, or such it becomes, by a curious, but
wide spread and never ending principle, the association of ideas,
of which Mr. Locke gives a curious example, of the young man
who could not dance unless there was a trunk in the room, be-
cause he had learned to take all his dancing steps in a room
where an old trunk happened to stand.
A multitude of such kind of instances occur in health, and
more especially are they connected with sickness ; in which, as
Dr. Rush observes, a bed, a chair, a table, become matters of
consequence, as to their identity, and as to the places which they
occupy in the room. And we may observe, that the room of the
house itself, into which, or out of which, the sick man is removed,
164 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
sometimes have such an influence on the prejudices of even a
strong mind, debilitated by disease, as influencing the event, and
meriting the attention of the physician and the nurse. We well
remember the horror which a dying man once expressed at hia
bed being turned round.
The Baron Humboldt tells us, that it is impossible to read,
without being warmly aff*ected, what is related of the manner of
living of the first Spanish Colonists. Surrounded as they were
by Indians, of whose language they were ignorant, they cultivated
such plants as recalled to their minds their native plains and gar-
dens. He is speaking of New Spain, and further says, that the
epoch at which an European fruit first ripened, was distinguished
by a family festival. He gives an instance of a brave officer, the
valorous Andres de la Vega, who collected together his old com-
panions in arms, to share with him three asparaguses, the first
that ever grew in Cuzco.
This association of ideas is found in families and individuals
of all nations, and may be viewed in some of its shapes, as a
universal principle.
In order to account for the spread of customs, and the erection
of structures, which are found similar in places far distant from
each other, we must look at the migratory propensities of indi-
viduals, and of tribes, and of nations, in ancient times.
The founder of the Jewish nation,* was born in Mesopotamia,
called also Padan-Aram. From this his native place, and the
native place of mankind, he was told to depart for Canaan, but
from this place he was driven by famine into Egypt. From
Egypt he was driven out by Pharaoh, on account of his beautiful
wife. And we do not find him going directly back to Canaan,
but going south, and finally reaching it, probably by the circuitous
journey that the Hebrews did, at a later period, who, under Moses,
were forty years in travelling to a' place which, by a direct route,
might have been achieved in as many days ; as though loth to end
their journey, and to reach that promised land, where they knew
that they must become stationary.
The original propensity of man, seems to have been to con-
sider the whole world, and not a particular spot in it, as his habi-
* Abram, according to Josephus, first taught that there was but one God.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 165
tation, and under this emigrant feeling, to have roved so far, as to
have made it difficult for him to return. Else how should the cold
regions of Europe, have been peopled from the fertile, and flow-
ery, and paradisical region, betwixt the Euphrates and Tigris,
where man first knew, and first was known on earth 1
We know what is said in fabulous history, about Europa,
daughter of Agenor, king of Pha3nicia, being carried by a god,
Jupiter, into Crete, the present Candia, an European island ; and
that from this beautiful virgin, who enamoured the god, that
Europe had its name.n But we find that Crete had inhabitants
before the arrival of the god and his lady ; for we are informed
that after this intercourse of heaven with earth, and the nymph's
giving birth to three sons, Minos, Sarpedon, and Rhadamanthus,
that Asterius, king of Crete, married her. Therefore we find,
that even if Europa gave her name to Europe, that she did not
give it its first inhabitants.
§ 33. But in pursuing the subject of American pyramids, and
other antiquities, we must be allowed to suppose, that men, ari-
sing from a common stock, and primarily peopling a common
spot, might have, as related to buildings, and beauty, and dress,
and ornaments, common ideas. And that afterwards, when ne-
cessity compelled a man to dress himself in something besides
the skins of animals, of which his first coat was made, in Eden,
and the woman to procure something for an apron besides fig
leaves, that their children followed their example from choice
;
and that the mother of inventions, necessity^ was the first invent-
or of new fashions.
We can hardly suppose, with our present information, that the
natives of South America could have derived from Greece and
Rome those decorations which bear a resemblance to some of
theirs in their ancient temple% We have seen some newspaper
statements, of Greek inscriptions having been found in mounds
and caves ; and of a medal found in connection with the anti-
quities of Georgia, having hieroglyphics on one side of it, and
the word Roma on the other. And although this latter account,
is from what we deem a respectable source, yet the gentleman
who gives the statement, did not himself see it taken from an
^ 15
;
166 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Indian mound, but had the account second hand ; but it was such
an one as he had full confidence in.
We can implicitly rely upon what the Baron Humboldt tells us,
who travelled into Mexico, and South America, on purpose to be-
come acquainted with those interesting countries ; and who was
a learned man, and had been to Rome, and examined the anti-
quities of the eternal city. He was a Prussian, and we believe
travelled under the patronage of the king. In the Intendancy of
Oaxaca, or Guaxaca, he found an ancient palace built for a place
of resort when the king had lost one of Ms family, such as a wife
or child. It was called 3Iitla, a place of sadness, and sometimes
by the Indians, Leoba, which signifies a tomb. No account, not
even traditionary, could be obtained by whom, or at what remote
time, it was built.
This mourning palace speaks of a degree of refinement in
sorrow which we should not expect to find except in a nation far
advanced. Palaces would first have been built for royal residen-
ces, for splendor and munificence, before one would have been
thought of for a purpose so opposite. But the history of human
nature in all ages, and in all nations, developes some men of
sedate looks, and of serious minds, however the majority may be.
Solomon said that it was better to go to the house of mourning,
than to the house of feasting, although his own practice did not
illustrate this sentiment. And the Rev. Laurence Sterne, who
once took those words for a text, began his sermon as follows,
—
" This I deny."
We are apt to attach to all nations which are not Christian, the
idea that they are revellers, and that soberness of demeanor, and
sedateness of countenance, and strictness of conduct, belong to
themselves alone. But these things are not exactly so.
From the magnificence of antique edifices now standing, and
from the great extent of august #hins, compared with the small
extent of that part of America which was not found in a state of
barbarism, we must be compelled to the conclusion, that when
the Europeans discovered the New World, that it was in a retro-
grade state—such a state as Europe experienced during that peri-
od long, dismal, and dreary, called the da7'k ages.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 167
Had an inhabitant from China, visited Europe, for instance, in
the year 1000, he would have found but few spots in it, besides
Constantinople, which were not sunk into incivihty, misery and
semi-barbarian wretchedness.
And as arts and arms once travelled east from Rome to Byzan-
tium, the light which dispelled the darkness of the dark ages,
spread from Constantinople to the west.
But neither do we, in the history of nations, nor of individu-
als, usually find an isolated fact. What occurred in the old
world, probably once o^urred in the new. That is, the flux of
nations which Indian tradition referred to, as being from north to
south, was once from south to north.
Such were the conclusions of the Baron Humboldt, who had
the best opportunity of knowing. He even goes so far as to call
Callao, and the plains Tiahuanacu, in lat. 17*^ 10' south, the cen-
tre of the first civilization of mankind.*
The traditions of the Indians, it is extremely difficult, or utter-
ly impossible to ascertain; the dates of. Their history, nor their
chronology is neither of them known. Still, the Mexicans had
hieroglyphical writings, which are preserved in Mexico, and we
do not despair of their yet being decyphered. Those Indians
whose traditions were, that they came from the north, appear to
have been located in the United States, and in New Spain. And
they might have not extended further back than the time of their
great grandfathers, or not at any rate to remote antiquity. Those
who questioned them under an impression that they must have
come from the north, would have been probably satisfied, without
taking any very great pains to ascertain whether they referred to
a time recent or remote.
The remarkable ruins which have been just noticed, are situa-
ted between the cities of Cuz^ and la Paz, near a small interi-
or sea, called the lake Chucuito. The august grandeur of these
antiquities, may be considered as the Palmyra, or Balbec of the
Western continent. But the palace of 3Iitla, or mourning, is
further north ; and it is in this that decorations of small porphyry
stones, wrought into mosaical work, are found. Mosaic-work,
* Travels Vol. ii. p. 347.
168 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
indicates the art of cutting and polishing small and hard stones,
in a high degree of perfection. The artists of the present day,
could not conceive of this being done, (as the little stones, of va-
rious colors, are cut square,) without steel tools, of first rate ex-
cellence and temper. The Mexicans had not found out the use
of iron and steel ; but they had two kinds of copper, the one
kind soft and flexible, and the other kind hard and resisting, out
of which their edge tools were made. And here, it may be ob-
served, that the stones of different regions vary in their degrees
of hardness. The stones of the United .gtates exceed in hard-
ness those of England, in a great degree, which will account for
the English erecting stone structures, with more facility and at
less expense, than can be done here. Porphyry, like granite,
may differ in different places as to its degrees of hardness.
In this building, the palace of Mitla, it appears that all the
beauties of mosaic work are found, such as Greeques, Arabes-
ques, labyrinths, and meanders ; and the same design which
pleases the eye in those vases called Tuscan. But they called
tajnind in the Baron Humboldt, what he had witnessed at Rome,
near the grotto of the nymph Egira, in the fi'ise of the old tem-
ple Deus Redicolus,
If it be possible that the Mexicans could, as it relates to the
mosaic work, have had any intercourse with Rome, or any artist
from thence, it must have been in very remote times ; for this
temple of Deus Redicolos^ written more properly Rediculus, was
erected by the Romans so long ago as the invasion of Rome by
Hannibal, who died B. C. 182 years. The name of this deity,
of Roman imagination, is derived from redire, to return. And
the Romans raised this temple on the spot from which Hannibal
had retired, when he approached the city of Rome to besiege it, to
the god Retire, or Deus Rediculus^-
Such is what some might deem a connecting link between
Rome and Mexico
!
§ 34. That any nation should have incurred the immense
labor of cutting the hardest stones into little squares, in such im-
mense quantities as would be needed to adorn such a building, is
seemingly wonderful. Such an instance points to a period when
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 169
time and money must .have been at command in great profusion,
for both would have been required for a great many other purpo-
ses at the same time.
Our own treasury is to be sure overflowing at present, with be-
tween forty and fifty milhons, for which our government have no
use ; but this is a very unusual state of things, in any republic or
monarchy, ancient or modern. If, however, it was at the disposal
of one man of absolute power, it would be easy for him to erect
expensive buildings, and to adorn them with mosaic work.
But such a coincidence relating to so singular a fact, between
Rome and Mexico, should not, when taken by itself, hastily lead
us to conclude that there was any intercommunication, in the
days of Hannibal. We should as soon think of referring this
matter to a common origin, and Egypt as its source ; for not Ro-
mans and Mexicans, but the Greeks also, adorned their edifices
with mosaic work ; and we have historical evidence that the lat-
ter nation derived much of their knowledge from the ancient
Egyptians.
And we are also told of this singular edifice, the palace of
Mitla, that there is a striking analogy in the distribution of its
apartments, to what was observed in the monuments of Upper
Egypt, by M. Denon, of which he has furnished drawings. We
have now before us what is known of this palace—that its orna-
ments resemble those of the Romans, Greeks, and Arabians, and
the division of its apartments, those of Upper Egypt. A palace
still standing in New Spain, in our own native North America, the
sight of which is worth a voyage across the Atlantic, apd yet
mentioned by few. Unvisited by those who are crossing the At-
lantic to take a view of curiosities there, of less interest—unvisit-
ed by our own countrymen who go to Mexico.
§ 35. There is reason to conclude, that when the Indians
completed one of their mounds, that it was of a pyramidical
shape, and that those with flat tops had not received all the bodies
that were intended. It has been therefore supposed, that the an-
cient nation who buried their dead in this manner, were suddenly
extirpated, or driven away. Some mounds, with their tops in the
form of pyramids, having been opened in Ohio, particles of bones
15*
170 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
were found, but all in the last stage of decay ; whilst others,
which were contiguous, with flat tops, were examined, and skele-
tons discovered in a state of better preservation, as if more re-
cently deposited.
The evidence increases by information from different quarters,
that whatever may have been the design of the ditches, and walls,
that the mounds were places of sepulture ; but why these sepul-
chres were sometimes outside of the walls, and sometimes inclo-
sed by them, is not clear.
There is one of these inclosures on the Scioto, about three
miles from Chilicothe, Ohio, so ancient that the walls are so de-
cayed, as almost to be on a level with the adjacent ground. It is
circular, and about a mile in circumference, and incloses from
twelve to fifteen mounds. Near this circular fort are several
smaller ones, also circular.
Although the mounds differ in different places in the west,
somewhat in shape, we have not learned of any fortification
there, of any other form than circular. There is one thing wor-
thy of notice, that in one of those mounds, on the Scioto, the
- heads of the skeletons were uniformly found lying towards the
west. It may be also noticed, that upon descending about two
feet, that the earth was mixed with charcoal, and it has hence
been inferred that these ancient bodies were buried on a funeral
pile. But it is improbable that the bodies were burned, for if so,
how could the bones have appeared in strata with their heads
lying towards the west 1 The mound that was opened with the
heads thus situated, was about twenty yards in circumference, and
six or seven feet in height, and was one which was not within thte
fortification.*
§ 36. It does not appear that the Indians of New England
disposed of their dead in any other manner than by burying them
in the earth. We have visited the burying ground where the Mo-
hegan chiefs were interred. During the great gale of 1815, there
was a part of the bank of Narragansett bay washed away, and
some Indian skeletons exposed. These were as recent as the
* See Med. Rep. Vol. xii. p. 87.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 171
coming of the English, however, as there were remains of wool-
len blankets, in which the bodies had been wrapped. They
sometimes deposited their dead in natural caves, where they have
been found in Kentucky and Pennsylvania. The present writer
examined some cloth, in the possession of Mr. Gratz, of Phila-
delphia, which was found enveloping the remains of a dead body
m a cave, upon land owned by that gentleman, in the state of
Kentucky. This cloth was woven by the threads being tied to-
gether in knots, at a little distance apart, apparently by the
fingers. It points to an era more distant than the present race,
as they had not, north of Mexico, any cloth of any kind, when
they were first visited by Europeans.
One of the bodies found in one of the caves in Kentucky, was,
by the quality of the soil, so preserved, as to be in the state of a
mummy ; the skin and flesh not being decayed, but only shrivel-
ed and dried.
Indians carry off and conceal the bodies of their dead, which
fall in battle, unless the scalp is taken off, in which case they let
them remain. The reason is, that when the scalp is taken off
they cannot conceal the death of the warrior ; and as it is always
their aim to make the number of their slain appear as few as
possible, they remove from the battle ground those who fall,- so
that their enemies may remain in ignorance as to the numbers
which they have lost. It is also an object of the utmost policy to
keep from the knowledge of their enemy, the actual number of
their living warriors. And this they have hitherto done so effect-
ually, that in all their numerous wars with the whites, from Brad-
dock's defeat, to the present Seminole war, that neither before
hostilities commenced, nor in the time of them, nor in the peace
succeeding, could the amount of their fighting men ever be ex-
actly known.
§ 37. As to the general customs of the Indians, there is con-
siderable variation among the different tribes ; and in order to
know them with precision, we must know what their habits were
before they had much intercourse with the whites.
From the best information, they are in their aboriginal state,
theoretically, and in general practically, a moral people. Dr.
172 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Williams, in his History of Vermont, clears their character of
lying and falsehood, which he tells us were viewed with horror,
and that they had no name for adultery and rape.
Edwards, in his History of the West Indies, tells of an old
Carribee Indian, who imputed the increase of hurricanes, and
the other miseries of the Indians, to their having become almost
as bad as the whites.
An Indian in conclusion of a speech to Gen. Washington said,
We know that you are very strong—we have heard you are wise,
but we shall wait to hear your answer to this, that we may know
you are just. They called Gen. Washington the town destroyer.
Columbus swore to their Spanish majesties, that there was not a
better people in the world, more affectionate, affable, or mild.
De las Casas, Bishop of Chapia, attests to the innocence of the
Indians, and to the wickedness of the Spaniards. Another wri-
ter says of them, that they appeared to be fulfilling the scripture,
in taking no thought for the morrow. Indeed, there is a general
agreement among those who have delineated the Indian charac-
ter, that they are, in the words of the historian of Vermont, free
from all that train of infamous and unmanly vices, which arise
from avarice. The like attestation is given by a French writer,
of the Indians living high up on the Missouri river. This wri-
ter's account of them is worth noticing in some other respects.
It was written originally in French. The manuscript was put
into the hands of my friend, the late Dr. Mitchell, of '^ew York,
who translated and published it.
Subordination and family government seem to be entirely lack-
ing. They are creatures of the present, and think little of the
pastor the future, unless to revenge an injury or insult. These
Missouri tribes, unlike most others, had no priests ; but they have
a natural turn for gravity, and are very cautious both in word and
action. Their old men seem to be substitutes for priests. They
have happy memories, and some of them can relate most of the
incidents of their lives. Their old men are their preachers in one
sense, for they admonish the young men daily ; and refer them
to the Master of Life, as loving the man that is peaceable, rea-
sonable, liberal, generous towards his friends, and courageous
against his enemies. They advise the young men to marry
THE TONGUE OF TIME. -
173
early, and condemn those who seduce married women, to which
they refer the origin of the greatest disturbances among the red
men. They have a singular kind of polygamy, for if a man
marries a wife who has several younger sisters, he commonly
marries each one as she becomes marriageable, till he marries the
whole. This is in contravention of the law of Moses, which
forbade a man to marry his wife's sister, to vex his wife, so long
as she lived.
But there is another Indian custom very much in conformity
with the Jewish law, and which is mentioned in three or four dif-
ferent places in the Bible, and which, although not always follow-
ed by the Indians, yet it was followed on the Missouri, by those
who strictly regarded their ancient customs. It was that of mar-
rying the widow of a deceased brother. The law of Moses
makes no exception to the living brother having a wife already.
It commands him to marry her, and to raise up seed to his de-
ceased brother. The Indian custom was to marry a brother's
widow, if she was young, nor do they appear to have avoided it
on account of having been already married.
Their practice of divorcing their wives was frequent, and un-
ceremonious ; so that by the time a man was thirty years old, he
probably had had ten wives, and divorced nine of them. The
facility of divorce among the Jews is well known. It consisted
merely of writing a bill of divorcement, putting it into his wife's
hand, and sending her out of the house. But this does not prove
any thing in common between the Jews and Indians, except the
hardness of their hearts. All these coincidences may have been
fortuitous, and accidental.
The physiognomy of the Indians is not Jewish, but East In-
dian, or Hindoo, which is said to be the most ancient people on
earth. It was from the resemblance of the natives of America,
to the East Indians, that they at first received the name of In-
dians.
Mr. Boudinot, in his anxiety to prove the natives to have been
the descendants of the lost ten tribes, runs into an error, and
makes his book contradict itself—in the fore part of which he
tells us, that these lost ten tribes, were lost before the crucifixion ;
174 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
whilst in the latter part he speaks of the miseries of the Indians,
a^ arising from their having been concerned in that event
!
The fact is, that at that era, the Jevrs had not the power of life
and death in their own hands. Their government was in the
hands of the Romans, and they were a conquered people, and
in a legal point of view, the Romans were those who executed the
laws, however criminal the Jews may have been as accusers, and
false witnesses. Besides, crucifying was a Roman, and not a
Jewish method of inflicting death. At any rate, all the remains
of the twelve tribes, at that time in Judea, was the tribe of Judah,
and the half tribe of Benjamin. So little do some know of
sacred history, who write on sacred subjects.
§ 38. A French writer, Jean Baptiste Trudeau, thinks that
the accounts given of the Indians by their priests, Jesuits, and
Recollects, are contradictory, and very little to be relied on. As
to himself, he had learned their language, and resided among
them, as well as travelled in their country, and therefore had an
opportunity to correct the misstatements of those once supposed
saints—misstatements, which he supposes that they had particu-
lar inducements to publish to the world. We fear that the like
accusation will lie, with a heavy weight, against some of our
traders, land speculators, and soldiers. And that very many of
theii* accounts are exaggerated, as to their bad qualities, diminish-
ed as to their good ones, and on the whole, partial and prejudiced,
as to the Indian character.
The Indian character is a negation of that of the whites, with
respect to avarice, ambition, conquest, and jealousy. But it con-
centrates its positive feature in revenge. And in this respect they
are devils incarnate. Nor do they, nor will they, discriminate
between the offender and his companions, or the nation to which
he belongs. They punish without mercy, and without discrimi-
nation of age, or sex.
The hospitality of these Upper Missourians, the Panis, Man-
danes, and Ricaras, to their own distinguished countrymen, and
especially to the white men, exceeds that of any other people in
the known world—although something of the same kind may
have been found elsewhere among other Indian tribes. It is the
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 175
offer of their youngest and handsomest women to their visitors,
even by husbands, parents, and brothers, who importune their
guests to make free with them.
They appear to have no such sentiment as jealousy. But this
is only a partial abnegation, and not universal among all the
tribes.
During the menstrual period the women live as secluded as if
they were infected with plague or small pox. The place she in-
habits, her food, utensils, and even fire to light a pipe with, no
one else would resort to, or use for fear of some misfortune. A
similarity to Jewish customs, may here again be traced. And
there is one feature to be found in their habits, which we do not
recollect to have ever read of, except in the account of the Es-
senes, a sect of Jews, mentioned by Josephus. It is that of the
entire chastity of the women when they find themselves in a state
of pregnancy ; all sexual intercourse being then at an end.
This sect of the Jews, the Essenes, we do not find distinctly
mentioned in the New Testament ; but whoever reads the account
of it, as given by Josephus, will be forcibly reminded of many
Christian rules of conduct, which were most rigidly practiced by
them. They lived on the borders of the Dead Sea.
But no inference is to be drawn of a common origin, from casu-
al coincidences in one or two particulars, when there is a total
discrepancy in a hundred others.
Polygamy, as we know, was allowed by the Jews, and even
ordained, in those contingencies to which we have referred above.
The Indians and Jews herein agree. But the Indian makes a
servant of his wife, and he who has a number of wives, has a
number of slaves, whom he exchanges for others at pleasure.
Say what we will to them, they will not be convinced that the
whites are not slaves to the women. This they insist upon.
As to themselves, they hold the sex very cheap, and say, that
they cannot carry women with them when they die, and that he
who quarrels and fights for the possession of a woman, is a fool
and a madman.
The woman who permits intercourse with her husband when
she is pregnant, is considered as behaving foolishly, and as en-
176 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
dangering the life of herself and child. Here the instinct of all
the inferior animals is observed to be the same.
They have Jying-in hospitals, or huts, to vrhich their women re-
sort in parturition, but their confinement seldom lasts more than
two days. And if the woman belongs to a marching party, they
are not delayed more than half a day. She then marches with her
young stranger, having however, the assistance of some of her
friends. They plunge their infants in water the day after they
are born, whether it be winter or summer.
They have no very decisive regulations in most of the affairs
of life, except their hunting laws, which are executed with much
rigor. Their rule is, to keep together in a line. The man who
pushes forward of the company, and frightens the game, to the
detriment of themselves, and of their wives and children at home,
is punished severely. They beat him with sticks and clubs, cut
his clothes to pieces, bjreak his weapons, tear down his hut, and
kill his horses and dogs. And in this respect their chiefs, and
greatest braves, fare as bad as those in the humblest ranks of life.
We thus find the marks of a republican governinent in the New
World, even amongst these uncontaminated aboriginals. May
all who breathe its air, inhale the true spirit of equal rights.
The Indian method of retaining a long speech, is for one to
pay strict attention to the speaker, till he hears as much as he
thinks he can retain. He then' touches the elbow of his next
neighbor, who does the same to another of the company, when he
thinks his memory is fully saturated. And thus different parts of
a speech is imbibed by different persons, and the whole remem-
bered by the company, who put their parts together, as occasion
afterwards requires. They thus make out the whole of what has
been said in along speech, without mistake or omission.
There have been accounts published by the Canadian traders,
of a people who were found six hundred leagues up the Missouri,
who were white, and had long beards. They have been called
"Welch Indians. This name arose from a tradition among the
Welch nation, that a colony of their people, at some distant peri-
od, emigrated, and had not since been heard of The Welch
seemed disposed to claim these fair, and bearded Missourians, as
THE TON<JUE OP TIxME, 177
this long lost colony of theirs. Their claim however lacks any
positive, or even very circumstantial evidence.
But that a nation exists, very high up this immense river, (which
is of itself one thousand four hundred miles longer than the At-
lantic, between America and Europe,) and of a lighter com-
plexion than the Indians proper, there seems too much evidence
to deny.
We have before us, an account given by a French gentleman
to Samuel Russell, Esq. which has been translated, and from
which we learn, that an exploring party of Canadians, was stop-
ped by this people, and compelled to return—and that they were
as white as the Europeans, and had long beards. They would
not accept any presents, and had a language totally different from
the Indians, of which the Canadians could understand not a
single word. The presence of the Canadians appeared to give
great uneasiness, and when they attempted to pursue their voyage
further up the Missouri, this strange people rose in arms, and
compelled them to descend.
Some travellers from tl:ie United States, appear to have after-
wards, however, been more successful in their intercourse, and to
have become more particularly acquainted with them. But fur-
ther knowledge is necessary, before any definite conclusion can
be formed as to who and what they are. Our conjecture is, that
they may turn out to be a branch of some one of the earliest
French colonies in Canada.*
The Arabians are savages who have the Old World's wreck of
knowledge and letters in their hands. Hence, they sometimes
display a dignified sentiment, and disclose an useful invention.
But there is nothing in the mental, mechanical, or physical
condition of the American aboriginals, to lead to a conclusion that
they had ever had any connection with a more cultivated people.
We mean here to be understood to except the Mexicans, and have
particularly in view the natives of the United States, who did not
appear to have, or to have had, any connection with the inhabi-
tants of Mexico, or with those further south. There is not a
* The Canadians not being able to understand a word of their language, is,
however, adverse to this hypothesis.
16
178 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
single fact that points to such a connection. We formerly thought
that the potatoe did. But we find that this useful vegetable was
not used by the Mexicans, nor cultivated in Mexico, when the
country was first discovered—although it was found further south,
in Chili, Peru, and on all the Cordillera of the Andes. Nor was
the potatoe found north of Virginia, but was there found, and from
thence carried to England, by Sir Walter Raleigh ; and to Ire-
land, from the bay of Albemarle, in 1586. Virginia may there-
fore lay claim to it as a product of her soil, primarily. And
although she may not now in her soil find it growing wild, yet
such was the fact as regards most of South America. The moun-
tains of Peru and Chili were, however, exceptions.
The Baron Humboldt tells in his travels, what will appear
wonderful to us, who have observed how completely the potatoe is
ruined by exposure to frost. He says that the Mexicans and
Peruvians can preserve potatoes for whole years, by exposing them
to the frost, and drying them in the sun. He tells of having seen
them in a spherical form, of from twelve to thirteen inches in
diameter.*
Had the potatoe been found in Mexico, we might the easier
conceive of its having been transferred from thence to Virginia,
and of its being an aboriginal product of Peru or Chili. As it is,
we may designate Virginia, as the native soil of that species of
solanum—that which we cultivate in the United States, and which
was carried to Europe. There are other species of it in South
America, which have not reached us.
Sir Walter Raleigh first introduced both potatoes and tobacco
into Europe. And of the latter. Queen Elizabeth granted him
the monopoly.
It is not a trait of human natilre, unworthy of notice, that to-
bacco outran the potatoe in its adoption and use among the in-
habitants of Europe. , Even the sober Germans, learned to love
the narcotic weed, before they learned to cultivate the esculent
and excellent potatoe. In France, the latter were first raised for
the sake of their blossoms !
The French people paid no regard to an American vegetable,
more valuable than her gold mines, until on a court day, Louis
* Vol. II, p. 351. As big as a largest sized pumpkin !
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 179
XIV. wore its blossom suspended from the button-hole of his
coat. This gave the impulse to that flowery people. To pos-
sess the flower they cultivated the fruit. That penetrating mon-
arch knew the road to the hearts and judgment of his imaginative
subjects, who invented the rufiie—although the John Bulls assert
that they made an improvement upon this French invention, by
adding the shirt.
It is a curious fact in the history of the potatoe, that the
sweet potatoe, (Convolvulus Battatas,) was known in England
before it. This latter had the reputation of restoring decayed
vigor, like the Eringo root. And it is to this that Shakspear
refers in the following line.
*'
Let the sky rain Potatoes, hail kissing Comfits, and snow Eringoes."
Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 5.
Our common table potatoes, (Solanum Tuberosum,) were de-
nominated, to distinguish them from the sweet potatoe, Virginia
potatoes. They were at first considered a luxury, rather than an
article of every day diet, in England. Ireland preceded England
in the general use and culture of potatoes, although they were
brought to England first.*
Eleven years after their first introduction into Ireland, we find
them noticed in the herbal of Gerard, (1597,) as a delicate dish.t
It is a curious fact that in Austria the stalk of the potatoe pro-
duces a cottony kind of flax, and is considered a textile plant
;
whilst in Sweden, sugar is extracted from its tubers. And its
balls, or lop-apples, yield vinegar by fermentation, or spirit by
being distilled.
§ 39. That extraordinary plant, tobacco, was unknown to
the world prior to the discovery of America. It is considered by
some as the essence of essences, as it is relished after food of all
kinds. After the rarest viands, the finest fruits, and richest wines
;
and even after eggs, milk, tea, coffee, and honey.
We are told that smoking was first introduced into England by
Sir Walter Raleigh.
* See the Pharmacologia of the excellent Dr. Paris, Vol. 1, p. 59. + 96,
180 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Snuff was prohibited by a decree of Pope Urban VIII. lo be
taken in church, under pain of excommunication, in 1624.
In 1634, smoking was forbidden in Russia, under the penalty
of having the nose cut off.
King James I. wrote what he called a Counter blaste to To-
bacco. In this the royal author informs his subjects, that smok-
ing, " is a custome loathsome to the eye, hateful to the the nose,
harmefuU to the brame, dangerous to the lungs ; and in the blacke
stinking fume thereof, neerest resembling the horrible Stigian
smoake of the pit that is bottomlesse." *
We are told by Dr. Parts, that in 1653, the Council of the
Canton of Appenzel, cited smokers before them, whom they pun-
ished ; and that they ordered all inn-keepers to inform against
such as were found smoking in their houses. And that in Bern,
in 1661, the police regulations were divided after the manner of
the Ten Commandments—the prohibition of smoking, being
placed immediately after the command against adultery.
Even in its native continent, tobacco did not pass without cen-
sure, discountenance, and prohibition. The blue-laws of Con-
necticut prohibited smoking within less than two miles of any
inhabited dwelling house.
Still, the attachment to it became so great, that it is the staple
commodity of the largest state in the Union—Virginia. It is ex-
ported in large quantities to the Old World, and extensively used
by all classes in the New.
An army suffering from cold, want of food, and want of clothes,
has been known to complain more for the want of tobacco than
of all its other privations. It is the principal luxury of the sea-
man, the soldier, the manufacturer, the laborer, and the idler.
The Arab of the burning desert, and the Laplander and Esqui-
maux of the arctic regions, the king, the priest, and the physi-
cian, have all at length bowed their heads to its fascinating influ-
ence, and have proved by their money, and even by the risk of
their lives, their devotion and attachment to its pleasing, and
soothing, and anti-dyspeptic effects.
Its essential oil, and Nicotin, are poisonous principles. And
it contains nitre, by which its inflammability is increased.
* Pharmacologia, Vol. I. pa. 48, 49, of Dr. Paris.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 181
Dr. Rush mentions two persons who smoked on a wager,
and both died—one in smoking his seventeenth, and the other
his eighteenth pipefull.
Moderate smoking after meals, greatly promotes digestion, and
prevents dyspepsia.
Of snuff, which is so extensively used to titilate the nose, the
medical philosopher, nor the natural philosopher, has never been
able to discover the utility, except in pleasurable sensation. And
yet, the present writer once had a distinguished gentleman under
his care whom he advised to discontinue the practice of snuffing,
to which he had long been in the habit. But he was afterwards
obliged to change his advice, and to recommend to his patient to
resume the practice, from finding him grow more unwell by its
discontinuance. He was not, however, very ill, but resumed the
practice with pleasure, and benefit to his health, so far as related
to a catarrhal affection, which became worse by the disuse of the
stimulant.
Snuff may, therefore, be useful in catarrhal affections, some
degree of which is very common in our very variable climate.
Perhaps, after all, the strangest thing in the history of tobacco is,
that it is adopted by the Chinese—a nation which very rarely
adopt any foreign custom whatever.
§ 40. At the time of the recession of the waters, after the
general deluge, the earth, for a considerable depth, must have
been in a semifluid state. It is easy therefore to see how the
immense plains of the Jerseys, Pennsylvania, Virginia, the Caro-
linas, Georgia, and the Floridas, were formed. But this process,
upon a small scale, is constantly going on at the mouth of all
large rivers, and with these our country abounds.
Gov. Pownal transcribes an extract from a letter of Monsieur
Vandreuil, the Governor of Louisiana, dated Sept. 28, 1752,
which states, that there is infinite difficulty in settling towards the
mouth of the river Mississippi, on account of the immense ex-
pense in banking against the inundations of the sea and land
floods. And he says, that he is against settling it as yet, and
that he is for waiting until the ground is more and more raised
16*
182 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
by the accretion of soil, as it has been three feet in the space of
fifteen years.
§ 41. But why do things of similar kinds appear congregated
together in alluvions'? Why are mines of trees, beds of fish bones,
pebbles, and stones of nearly the same size found in a row, or in
the same strata, and not indiscriminately huddled and mixed
together ] Some rocky shores on the Atlantic, which we have
visited, have the marks of the sea, agitated by a most powerful
wind, or tornado, on the moveable small rocks and stones, piled
slantingly up, at some unknown period. And we were struck
with the phenomenon of the similarity of size in these rows of
rocks and stones.
We have noticed the same alluvial law upon a field of grain,
or rather a field where grain had grown, after a heavy shower
which formed hills and brooks, soon after harvest. The stubble,
the chaff, the light and immature seeds, and the full and ripe
grain, were not indiscriminately mixed, but at least, partially, as-
sorted ; and were prone, each to congregate with its own kind, as
the little eddies had subsided.
We must refer to two laws, the one the law of gravity, and the
other the law of projectiles, to account for these phenomena.
Bodies of the same specific gravity will swim equally fast, or
sink equally quick, all things alike, in the same element. They
will of course, if seeds or chaff, be cast ashore together. We once
saw this exemplified upon a larger scale. In the time of the
great gale in September, 1815, two sloops of about the same size,
and driven from the same wharf, followed each other ashore into
the same little nook, where the waters were driven by the same
gale, into a little valley adjoining the harbor, which was before
dry land.
The sight was curious, to see them thus following each other,
as though guided by skillful mariners, into port, when there was
no one on board.
It is a law of projectiles, that the same force will throw the same
weight, the same distance. The same force, in wind and waves,
would therefore drive stones of the same weight into the same
row, on shore. And as stones of the same weight, when lying in
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 183
the same locality, are likely to be something of the same size, and
to gravitate equally, we hence account for rocks and stones of
similar sizes, on the sea shore lying in the same line, the same
distance from the sea. And the same principle will apply exten-
sively in the interior floods.*
§ 42. The fact that the mountains of America, having sea
shells on them, and in them, were once covered by the ocean, is
assumed by Mr. Evans. But he thinks it hazardous to positively
assert how it has happened that the sea and land have taken each
other's places. He conjectures that the sea barriers may have
been broken away by natural causes, or may have been worn
away, in an immense number of ages. He thinks that in what-
ever manner this part of our continent may have been disburden-
ed of its immense load of waters, that the place that they occu-
pied would rise, by a change of the centre of gravity ; and that
a directly opposite part of the earth, would, by the operation of a
part of the same cause, sink and become depressed.
This latter fact, in support of his theory, he finds evidence of,
in the Chinese Chorography, relating to Corea, in which it is said,
that in ancient times a mountain, which once joined the continent,
has now near five hundred leagues of sea intervening. As to the
truth of which, the authorities adduced, and names given, bear
internal evidence.
We might quote these names as vouchers, but we fear that our
readers would wish of us, as Voltaire did of his Russian, or Ger-
man correspondent—that he had more wit, and fewer consonants.
We therefore omit the names, although their being originally
given corroborates the fact.
§ 43. Was the earth an immense plain, or were it a globe
standing still, and liable only to be moved by shifting of a weight
from one side of it to the other, this change of gravity could be
more easily comprehended. But when we consider it as a ball
* This principle may be applied to the formation of the pebble-beach at
Memel, in Polish Prussia, the longest in Europe—and to that of the Chesil-
bank, near Portland Island, the longest in England.
184 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
revolving upon its own axis, once in twenty-four hours, and con-
stantly in a rapid whirl, this change of gravity, elevating one part
of it, and depressing another, is not so easy to conceive.
We incline to think that our continent must have been drained
by the burning out of a part of the combustibles of the internal
globe ; by which what now forms the bottom of the sea, sank
lower ; or that an earthquake, or a succession of earthquakes,
must have produced the catastrophe ; earthquakes being known
to depress the solid land, and to permit the sea to rush over it, of
which the sinking of Port Royal, in Jamaica, was a noted and
melancholy instance. City, citizens, and soil, all sank into the
sea at once. The idea of the draining of the ancient sea bed,
must be accompanied by the supposition that this bed was higher
than the land on to which the sea flowed, or higher than the other
seas into which it ran. But Mr. Evans makes this rising of the
ancient seabed, a consequence of the waters having run off, and
not a cause of their ninning off.*
We cannot conceive of the present ocean being drained, be-
cause we know of no depressed or sunken region, into wljich the
waters could run. Admitting the popular opinion to be true, that
the Atlantic is higher than the Pacific, we cannot admit that the
elevation of the former i§ any thing more than partial, owing to
the trade winds piling the waters up in the gulf of Mexico, and
against the eastern shores of the New World. At, and south of
Cape Horn, if these oceans do not lose their distinctive names,
they certainly lose their inequalities of surface.
We cannot possibly entertain the most distant idea, that if the
isthmus of Darien was cut through, that the Atlantic bottom
would become dry land ; nor that the present shores would be
materially elongated on the coasts of it. Such notions are better
fitted for Utopian visionaries, than for men of sober science.
* We are disposed to think that some of the references which we have raade
to Gov. Pownal, justly belong to Mr. Lewis Evans, a surveyor, and early con-
structor ofa map of what are now the middle states. Of this map he gave an
analysis; the first edition of which was publislied at Philadelphia, in 1749. A
second edition appeared there in 1755, from the shop of B. Franklin, and D.
Hall. In 1776, Gov. Pownal gave a new edition of Evans' map, with large
additions, and a topographical description of such parts of North America as it
related to. This was published in London. See N. Y. Med. Rep. for 1809.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 185
But even admitting that a part of our globe, when by any
means an ocean was drained from it, would rise, and become
higher than it was when it was a bed of the sea, this would do
nothing towards accounting for some parts of this ancient sea-
bottom being found in the mountains, and other parts in valleys.
We know that this appearance of mountains and valleys, has
been attempted to be explained by the supposition that the run-
ning off of the waters caused them. But what should make
water run swift on a plain and level surface, so as to cut gullies
four thousand feet deep, and scoop out vallies hundreds of miles
wide, like that of the Mississippi 1
These mountains and vallies would surely be needed, to make
or to have made the waters run off with such a current as to make
a plain surface assume such great elevation* and depressions.
The waters of countries extensively plain, as the Tonawanda
creek, in the Genesee country, run with so moderate a current,
that the traveller who is a stranger, is obliged to inquire, or to find
out from some other source than the motion of the stream itself,
which way the waters are running. This we know from our
own experience. We were there, however, when the waters were
low.
Besides, if the waters ran off with such a forcible and irresist-
ible power, why did they not carry off those sea shells, and other
animal exuviae, which according to Mr. Evans and others, are
found on mountain tops 1
We do know that some high mountains present no marks of
volcanic origin ; and we likewise know, that some coral eleva-
tions, beneath the sea, owe their structure and altitude to little
animals. We must refer ^elevations beneath the sea, which are
not volcanic, to animals ; and their great height to the immensity
of time which the sea submersed them, and the animals had to
construct them in. The Bahama islands, Cuba, the Florida reef,
are of animal origin, all of them. We must keep in view that
the materials were not as we find them now, but in a state of soft-
ness and semi-fluidity.
§ 44. We would refer ranges of mountains, differing in the
kind of mineral which composes them, to animals of different
186 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
species ; and cavities and caverns to other submarine inhabitants,
of still different classes. As the mammoth is extinct, so it may
be that tribes of insects and vermes have shared the same fate.
We have seen little circular depressions, in fresh water ponds,
made by the fish called the roach^ and seen these occupants in
quiet possession of their local habitations. Where there is a de-
pression, there is always an elevation, and vice versa.
But that the formation of mountains cannot be referred to the
flood of Noah, is certain, for we are told of the existence of
mountains before the flood ; and we are told that the ark rested
on mount Ararat, which is of so high an altitude as to have its
top always covered with snow and ice. To the top of this emi-
uence, professor Parrot, a Russian gentleman, ascended a few
years ago, with immense labor, and erected a cross upon the
highest peak.
§ 45. It has been made a question, what could have become
of the surplus waters, which covered the mountains in the time
of the flood. Professor Jamieson it is said, gave up this difficult
subject in despair. We suppose that seas now in existence con-
tain them ; and that the fountains of the deep were broken up in
order to produce that catastrophe ; and that the internal fii-es of
the earth, beneath the sea, burnt with such volcanic violence, as
to raise the sea bottom, as it raised the earth in the formation of
the vulcan Jurillo, in New Spain, of which we have given an
account from the Baron Humboldt.
We will further suppose that the intensity of this fire, beneath
the antediluvian seas, was so great as to evaporate the waters into
steam, and thus cause them to ascend into the atmosphere, by
which clouds were formed, which descended in rain of forty days
and forty nights continuance ; and that at the recession of the
waters, after the cessation of the rain, that the action of the fire
had abated ; and as the waters ran off", that the bottom of the sea
sank even lower than it had ever before been ; a part of the com-
bustible materials bavins: been consumed, afforded room for a
greater depression. Besides, we do not know that the seas before
the flood, covered three-fifths of the surface of the globe, as they
do at present. If it is admitted that any extra waters were crea-
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 187
ted, in order to flood the earth, we are at liberty to suppose that
the surface of the bed of the sea was enlarged for their accom-
modation, afterwards. And we are at hberty to suppose that im-
mense quantities of water exist in combination with soHd matters,
as in trees, plants, animals, and in the atmosphere also, which
did not exist in these locations, before the flood. And we may
suppose also that seas are much increased in depth since the
flood, by the sinking of the bottom of the sea, in consequence, as
before noticed, of the deflagration of the combustibles beneath it.
And we may add, by the washing of the sands upon their shores.
The existence of immense sandy deserts in Africa, Arabia, and
other countries, majHiave once added to the extent of the ante-
diluvian sea-beds^ and made the ocean shallow. We do not,
therefore, admit that infidelity can draw any kind of support, as it
lias attempted to do, from the difficulty of accounting for the dis-
posal of the diluvian waters.
The breaking up of the fountains of the great deep, we sup-
pose, was that of the breaking out of volcanoes beneath the sea,
and turning the ocean into steam. Steam made clouds, and
clouds descended in rain. Clouds are water. When they de-
scend in rain, we see no more of them. The sky becomes clear,
the clouds are under foot.
§ 46. There is a region where the attraction of gravitation is
equal, and consequently a body placed in it, will remain at rest
until the equiUbrium is destroyed. When this happens, the body
may gravitate towards the sun, moon, or earth, as it happens to be
propelled by the force that pushed it out of its stationary posture.
We can hardly doubt that any one who has seen the process of a
bit of iron being burned, and turned into sparks, by a blow-pipe,
will doubt of the process by which shooting stars visit our system
and sight. We suppose that the same intensity of heat is produ-
ced in the heavens, upon a large scale. Hence stones fall in a
vitrified state. As to the fixed position of the stones, whilst vitri-
fying, and the iron whilst burning, there is no difficulty in assign-
ing them to that region of equal attraction, which exists high up
in the heavens ; nor of comprehending how the process of defla-
gration destroys the equality of their fixed spot of attraction, by
188 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
pushing them aside, and then they fall to the earth. The same
principle may be applied to clouds, which do not descend in rain.
They are so equally attracted, that the earth does not draw their
vapors, and steam-like particles together into drops, and then at-
tract those drops down to its surface, as it does when it rains.
Hence it rains out of low clouds, but does not rain out of very
high ones. ^
V
§ 47. Of Creation. Aristotle beli^^d the world to be eter-
nal, and others have held the same opinion, for the reason that
they could not conceive how something could have been created
out of nothing. But if we appeal only to philosophy, and leave
out of the question all history, sacred and ncofane, how does it
obviate the dilemma 1 Is it not just as difficult for us to compre-
hend how matter should have existed of itself, from all eternity,
as it is, how it should have been created out of nothing, at a cer-
tain time 1 We think that the difficulty is rather increased than
lessened by such a supposition. If there was no system, no
plan, no design, no intelligent agent, how should any order, regu-
larity or system, ever have been acquired ? Why should sun,
moon, stars, earth, and oceans, keep their places and not become
a heterogeneous and uninhabitable mass 1
Besides, if one kind of matter was eternal, why are not other
kinds the same 1 Why is the earth eternal, and men, beasts,
birds and fish, mortal ? And if it be replied, that the death of
animals, and the decay of trees, is no annihilation of matter, but
only a change of material forms, we respond to the truth of the
opinion ; but would then inquire, why the heavenly bodies, and
the earth itself do not follow the same rule 1 If nothing but
matter guides the universe, and if universal nature, and all its
materials, be but an unconscious aggregation of atoms, why do
they differ—why are there rubies and roses, the Nile and the
nightingale, the bee and the bullock 1 Why should not the acorn
produce the elm, and the elephant give birth to the ox? Why
should not the honey-suckle throw out some branches and flow-
ers of the poison tree 1
Although all nature teaches that there is an intelligent and su-
preme First Cause, who created the universe, yet it is not a little
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 189
remarkable, that no writer, sacred or profane, goes any farther
back than the arrangement of our system, from chaos.
Moses is the most ancient writer which the world knows with
certainty ; and the computed chronology of his birth is only 1571
years before the Christian era. Some have supposed that Hesiod
and Homer were cotemporary with Moses, but the most common
computation makes them 664 years later, which brings the time
in which they flourished to only 907 years before our present
epoch.
Moses and Hesiod speak of the creation. Hesiod says that.
In the beginning of things the Chaos was created.
Chaos, is the mas/of matter supposed to have been in a state
of confusion, befor^ it was reduced to order. If Moses was the
earliest of all writers, we must refer to him as the first who as-
serted that there was a chaos, which he does in the second verse
of the first chapter of Genesis.
Upon this subject the Rev. Mr. Buck says, that Moses " derives
the origin of this world from a confusion of matter, dark, void,
deep, without form, which he calls Tohu Bohu ; which is pre-
cisely the chaos of the Greek and barbarian philosophers."
Mr. Buck adds that " Moses goes no farther than the chaos, nor
tells us whence it took its origin, or whence its confused state ;
and where Moses stops, there precisely do all the rest."*
We like to refer this important subject to an author of reputa-
tion, and a professional man, whom we may rest assured, exam-
ined the matter in all its bearings.
* See Buck's Theological Dictionary, Art. Chaos."
17
CHAPTER IV.
SUPERSTITION. IDOLATRY. WITCHCRAFT. DREAMS. EGYPTIAN
AND INDIAN MAGIC. SOMNAMBULISM. JUDICIAL ASTROLOGY.
PHRENOLOGY. ANIMAL MAGNETISM. DeIth OF JULIUS CJ3SAR.
SALEM WITCHCRAFT. CASES OF NANCY HAZARD, JANE C. RIDER,
MRS. CASS, AND MISS m'eVOY, WHO TOLD COLORS BY THE TOUCH.
THEORY OF OPTICS. VIRGILIAN LOTS. SIR ISAAC NEWTON. ST.
BERNARD.
§ 1. Superstition forms a curious part of the history of man.
It has not been confined to men of weak minds and slender
talents. Even the great Sir Isaac Newton, studied alchymy, and
with his relation, Dr. Newton, set up furnaces, and both were for
several months engaged in search of the philosophers tincture.
Sir Isaac also requested a friend of his to inquire after a strange
fellow in Holland, by the name of Borry, who was supposed to
possess valuable secrets, and always dressed in green. And with
his own pen Sir Isaac made copious extracts from the writings of
Jacob Behmen, and other writers, of unearthly^ but not of heav-
enly mould.*
Superstition is often ridiculed, and as often felt at times by
those who laugh at it. It seems equally common to men of com-
mon and of uncommon abilities, and perhaps fools alone, can
plead entire exemption from its sway. And so long as our race
continues, and events continue to occur which cannot be explain-
ed, nor accounted for, by the power of reason, nor by the princi-
ples of philosophy, nor by the consonance of experience, we
may despair of being ever able to say that its empire has ended.
* Life by David Brewster, L. L. D., F. R. S., chap.
THE TONGUE OF TIME, 191
Thiere are few general rules without some exceptions ; but
what those few are, we feel fond of ascertaining. All sweeping
conclusions, from which there is no appeal, ought for the aid of
all arts and sciences, and the general good of mankind, to be as-
certained. Compared with those from which appeals may be
taken, they are few indeed, and therefore, the task is the easier
accomplished.
The tendency to idolatry forms a prominent and striking fea-
ture in the history of nations. The Jews, even under the Theo-
cracy, had this most marvellous tendency. The stone on which
Jacob rested his head, when he dreamed his dream, was by him
set up for a pillar, anointed with oil, and this remarkable saying
uttered by him, respecting it ; " And this stone which I have set
up for a pillar shall be God's house."
We consider it strange that the patriarch should not have had
ideas of the Deity more exalted than to have supposed that a
single stone could have been his habitation.
" And Joshua said unto all the people, behold this stone shall
be a witness unto us ; for it hath heard all the words of the
Lord," «fec.
Samuel also, after a successful battle of Israel against the
Philistines, took a stone and sat it up, and called the name of it
Ebenezer, that is, the stone of help. We marvel again what help
there could be in a stone.
And we find Rachel carrying away the household gods of her
father, when she departed with Jacob her husband, for the land
of Canaan. It would therefore appear, that the founders of the
Jewish nation, like the Romans, had their household gods.
But these appearances of idolatry in the chosen people, may
be in semblance only ; and may only have been intended to de-
note the more immediate divine presence, as they supposed, in the
pillar, in the stone, and in the Ebenezer. And we are inclined to
take this favorable view of idolatry, not only when found among
the Jews, but as it existed in other nations. As the Divine pres-
ence was manifested locally, at the city of Jerusalem, where the
throne of the Jewish kings was called the throne of the Lord,
and where the child Jesus was carried to be presented to the Lord,
the prophets and patriarchs imbibed the idea of consecrating
1^ THE TONGUE OF TIME.
visible objects, where they had received signal victories over their
enemies, or other divine favors, to Him, as concentrating his
presence. And it is also obvious, that the Greeks did not worship
their statues, as such, but that they paid their adorations to the
rational spirits, or souls, which they supposed inhabited them.
They believed their gods to be very awful, or very amiable, and
hence they made their statues very beautiful, or very terrible, to
denote their local habitation in them. This was the case with the
wiser heathen, but the common people might not make the dis-
tinction.
§ 2. As the material man, had a rational soul, the Greeks
and Romans transferred souls to other material matters. Hills,
groves, flowers, seas, rivers, woods, earth, fire, the end of a field,
and the end of a journey, had its god, or spiritual essence. JTer-
minus, was a Roman divinity, which was supposed to preside over
bounds and limits, and to punish those who removed landmarks,
and all usui-pers of land. He was very properly represented
without feet or arms, to denote that he never moved ; but he had
a human head. It is said that when Tarquin the proud, wished
to build a temple on the Tarpeian rock, to Jupiter, that Terminus
refused to give way.
§ 3. Jewish superstition heard the gospel preached in one
way, the apostles in another, the Greeks and Romans in ways
still different, owing to their different ideas.
§ 4. Sir Isaac Newton's attention was first turned to astrono-
my by a desire to inquire into judicial astrology ; a pretended
science, which teaches by the influences of the stars, to foretell
events by their relative situation and aspects. In one instance,
therefore, superstition had beneficial effects. What was thus be-
gun, ended in discoveries the most brilliant ; and as we may well
suppose, led such a capacious mind as his to discredit judicial
astrology. On the subject of miracles, we perceive by his letter
to the celebrated Mr. Locke, that in his opinion, those of good
credit continued in the church for about two or three hundred
years. He observes, that Gregory Thaumaturgus, had his name
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 193
from thence, and that he was one of the latest who was eminent
for that gift. But he declares that of their number or frequency,
that he was not able to give a just account, and that the history of
those ages is very imperfect. The conclusion of this letter of the
author of the Principia, to the author of the Essay on the Hu-
man Understanding, the two greatest men of the age, is curious,
as evincing the belief of both, in secret and occult arts. It is in
tliese words :
—" Mr. Paulin told me you had writ for some of
Mr. Boyle's red earth, by which I knew you had the receipt.
—
Your most affectionate humble servant. Is. Newton."
The fact seems to be, that in all ages, certain dealers in myste-
ries, have been able to conduct them with so much tact and cun-
ning, and to produce so many witnesses, who would be deemed
competent in courts of justice, in their favor, that men of the
highest powers of mind, were staggered. There are those, who
at the present day, of this description, appear in this predicament,
respecting craniology and animal magnetism. Such may con-
sider, that a competent witness is not always a credible one, when
his testimony comes to be heard ; for it may be so utterly im-
probable, as to be of little or no weight. Still we do believe,
that there may be as much at present in favor of animal mag-
netism, of evidence, as there was in the days of Newton and
Locke, in favor of astrology, and of the valuable secrets of Mr.
Borry, of Holland, who always dressed in green, of alchymy,
and of the philosopher's stone, and tincture.
And after all, we do not see any reason to discredit what the
Reverend Mr. Law says, when he asserts, that Newton borrowed
the doctrine of attraction from what Behmen says in his three first
propositions of eternal nature. As it is admitted that Sir Isaac
began his immortal career of astronomical discoveries, under the
influence of judicial astrology, Mr. Law's assertion seems the
more probable. And although we are no disciples of either the
magnetists or craniologists, we feel no disposition to ridicule those
who are ; not being by any means certain, that valuable and valid
results may not be arrived at, by paths which appear now to lead
into the wilderness.
We feel inclined, however, to place the systems of Gall and of
Messmer, with those of astrology and alchymy, and with the se-
17*
194 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
crets of Borry, as to their own intrinsic value ; and that the whole
will float away without leaving a plank on shore, to mark the
place of their wreck, is more than probable.
There have been many kinds of knowledge of no use of them-
selves, but which have led to results which have had immense
Utility ; and this, by training the mind to a certain pitch of acute-
ness, in order to detect the error, or the mystery. The search
after the philosopher's stone, led to chemical discoveries which
have been of vast benefit in the arts, and especially in medicine
and chemistry.
§ 5. Of knowledge, and of its different kinds, we know of no
one who has spoken in a better and more pithy manner, than
Bernard, who is considered the first of the fathers, and who is
called a saint. He says that, some wish to know, merely for the
sake of knowing, a mean curiosity. Some wish to know, that
they themselves may be known, a mean vanity. Some seek for
knowledge from lucrative motives, an avaricious baseness. Some
desire to know that they may edify their neighbor, this is charity.
Others that they may be edified themselves, this is wisdom.
Of Catholic, or papistical superstition, it is not our design to
say a great deal, because it would carry us into their whole
church history. It is remarkable of this cannibal church, that it
subjected those of its own sect to the prison, the faggot, and the
steel, for their trifling shades of opinion, when upon all the prin-
cipal points they were orthodox ; whereas, we do not learn that
infidels outright, and pagans, fell under its malediction.
Gallileo was imprisoned for his astronomical opinions, which
were similar to those of Copernicus, and for certain valuable dis-
coveries of his own. Lord Cobham was burnt in England, in the
fifteenth century, because he had adopted the principles of Wick-
liffe, which were those, or veiy similar to those, of Luther. One
of the queries put to his Lordship was, whether he would wor-
ship the true cross, upon which Christ was crucified.
Luther, although so generally correct in his principles, always
held, even after he had reformed others, to the real presence, in
the eucharist. It is not, however, to our purpose to enter upon
the subject of religious polemics.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 195
Of astronomical superstitions, our almanac makers occasion-
ally put us in mind, by the print of a man's body, and by point-
ing out the different parts of it, over which the heavenly bodies
are supposed, especially to preside. This ancient hypothesis of
astral influence, still holds its empire over some modern minds.
The febris catarrkalis of Hippocrates, has received the modern
name of influenza, from the supposed influence of the stars in
producing it. It is to the Italians, that we owe this cognomen.
Palmistry and fortune-telhng are forbidden by a special state
statute of New York. The fortune-tellers have evaded the law
by examining the head and its bumps, instead of the palm of the
hand and its lines. We do not see much diff'erence in the fla-
grancy of palmistry and phrenology, but perhaps phrenologists
can point it out.
When we mention such names as those of Newton and Locke,
in connection with superstition, it is only to show its universality,
and that the minds of the wisest men, in private life, like the
wisest judges on the bench, may sometimes be influenced by false
witnesses. A man may outrun the world, but he cannot divest
himself of all the impressions of his childhood, and youth, and
school-boy days, and nursery tales. No, not even a Bacon, a
Locke, or a Newton could do this.
Those seekers for knowledge, whom St. Bernard includes in
his two last definitions, may, in their wilderness paths of phre-
nology and animal magnetism, happily stray into other paths,
which lead to mines of gold and diamonds. And we have no
reason to suppose that they are not already actuated by the mo-
tives which that ancient father so happily describes ; although
their present road may end where that of those did who sought
after the philosophers stone, of alchymy and judicial astrology.
The Romans were a very superstitious people. This principle
among them, was sufficient to turn the course of an army, and to
dissolve a legislative assembly ; as when a place was burned by
lightning, or when it thundered. They had the same opinion
that many others had, and that perhaps some still have, that
lightning was fire from heaven, and thunder the voice of the
Most High.
196 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Sometimes happy results flowed from their dreams and divina-
tions, as when in the quarrel of Pompey and Crassus, which en-
dangered the state, Caius Aurelius, who was of the equestrian
order, ascended the rostra ; and although a man who never inter-
meddled with state affairs, he now spoke to the people, when they
were gathered together in full assembly, that Jupiter had appeared
to him in a dream, and commanded him to acquaint the consuls
that they must take care to be reconciled before they laid down
their office. This had the desired effect ; for notwithstanding
the turn which the contending parties might have given it, for re-
taining themselves in office, they were reconciled on the spot.*
Indeed, we owe a very great number of the events, battles, and
edifices of antiquity, to superstitious, or religious motives. We
seldom find the heathen deities interfering in love affairs, but of
almost all other mortal occurrences, they condescended to take
notice, and to interpose in some way or other. Those events
which are considered by Christians, as particular and special
interpositions of Divine Providence, were by pagans deemed to
be interpositions of some god ; and two of their gods are often
brought into notice as acting in contrariety to each other. We
observe this in the warnings given to Julius Caesar, of his ap-
proaching assassination, and to Calpurnia, his wife. The vrin-
dows and doors flew open as he was in bed, the night preceding
his death. He was awoke by the noise and light, and beheld
Calpurnia, in a deep sleep, uttering broken words and inarticu-
late groans. She dreamed that she was weeping over Caesar, as
she held him murdered in her arms. Next morning she conjured
him not to go abroad that day ; and he made up his mind from
his own impressions, and from her being naturally a woman of
firmness, and having none of the weakness of superstition, to
comply. He had also been forewarned by a soothsayer, of the
great danger which would await him on the ides of March, which
had now come. He was persuaded, however, by Brutus Albinus,
in whom he placed much confidence, but who was in reality one
of the conspirators, to meet his senate. On his way to the senate
house, he met this same soothsayer, to whom Caesar said, the
* Plutarch. Life of Pompey.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 197
ides of March are come. Yes, said the soothsayer, but they
have not gone.
He entered the senate, without reading a paper, which was put
into his hand on the way, announcing the conspiracy, and there
very soon met his death by being stabbed. He fell, and expired
at the pedestal of Pompey's statue, which had been secretly in-
voked by Cassius, before the great attempt.
Plutarch, therefore, draws the inference, and thinks nothing
can be clearer than that some deity conducted the whole business,
and directed that his fall should be at the feet of his great rival
whom he had conquered, but whose statue he now dyed with his
expiring blood. The god, therefore, that overruled, and decreed
that he should go to the senate house, on the ides of March, and
there be assassinated, and die at the feet of Pompey's statue, could
not, in pagan opinion, have been the same that inspired the sooth-
sayer to foretell the danger, and who caused the windows and
doors to fly open in the night, and who forewarned Calpurnia of
the event, in a dream. Plutarch inclines to the opinion, that
although these things might have fallen out by chance, yet that
his dying in the spot he did, could not be thus referred, but that
some god must have had a particular agency in this tragic affair.
He concludes also, that from this instance, and from the repeated
intimations given by gods and men, to Caesar, of his death,
198 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
the veiy day it happened, that fate is not so secret as it is in-
evitable.
It would seem that the Fates^ in the ancient Mythology, were
greater in some respects, than even Jupiter himself, who was usu-
ally accounted the king of all the heathen gods. Life, was repre-
sented by a thread. The Fates* were three sisters, Clotho,
Lachesis, and Atropos. The first presided over man at his birth ;
the second spun the thread of his life, and was represented with
a distaff in her hand ; the third held her scissors, and cut this
thread of life at a certain inevitable period.
We must appeal to our great divines, and theologians, for a rule
whereby our opinions are to be guided in the matter of general
and special providences. A general providence, is represented
by the arising of a great tempest in the sea, so that the ship was
covered with the waves ; and a special providence, by the winds
and the sea being rebuked, and a great calm succeeding.
Adam Clarke, however, inclines to the opinion, that Satan, the
prince of the power of the air, raised the wind on the occasion
referred to. But it is to be noticed, that Satan was not repri-
manded, nor spoken to, but that the winds and sea were com-
manded to peace, by a direct address to these elements, and that
they obeyed.
We have an opinion of our own upon the matter, which we
believe to be orthodox, and consonant with the Bible, but it is not
our design to extend this part of our subject at the present time.
What we have said, arose from the circumstances preceding and
accompanying the death of Ceesar.
§ 6. Witchcraft, is superstition run mad. It is a moral ma-
nia, in a horrible shape, a mental derangement, as much to be
deplored as the invasion of yellow fever, or cholera. A strange
and retroverted state of things, in which the accusers merit the
bloodletting, strait-jacket, and water gruel treatment of an insane
hospital. A state of things, in which accusers are the guilty
party, and the accused the innocent.
A man wiser, and more scientific than his neighbors, or than
the age he lived in, a woman more poor, old, and ugly than other
females, have both been accused, and imprisoned for witchcraft.
* Fate was accounted by Josephus another name for providence.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 199
Roger Bacon, who was born in England, near the town of
Ilchester, in 1214, was, if not the original discoverer of chemis-
try in the world, certainly its inventor or introducer, as relates to
Europe. He was, moreover, the greatest mathematician who had
ever been known. And since the time of Archimides, no one
had lived who could compare with him in mechanical knowledge
and ingenuity. All religion in his days was popery, and he was
himself a friar of the Franciscan order. His stupendous knowl-
edge amazed his countrymen, and especially his superstitious
brotherhood. They imputed to magic, powers and processes so
much transcending their own, and of which they could not con-
ceive the reason.
The Newton, the Fulton, and Davy, of the day, was therefore
thrown into prison, and there he remained immured for ten years,
for knowing more than his countrymen.
Why ignorant and bigoted men, should have been surprised at
the stupendous knowledge of Bacon, is not so very wonderful, for
the dark ages had not yet passed away.
But in the seventeenth century, that such a man as the Rev.
Cotton Mather, so learned, and so eloquent a writer as he was for
his day, should have been so utterly confounded, by an hysterical
girl, as we shall see he was, is certainly astonishing.
Those persons at Salem, who pretended to be bewitched, and
who accused other persons of bewitching them, were afflicted with
that kind of madness, very well known to physicians by the title
of monomania. Sometimes by itself, sometimes combined with
hysterics in women, and with hypochondriasis in men, and with
what does not always attend it, malice, in both sexes.
Cotton Mather well knew the old shapes in which witchcraft
had appeared, but it now came to his sight, instead of his hearing
only, and put on new forms, and his understanding gave way to
the shock.
Whoever reads that Reverend gentleman's account of the
Salem witchcraft, and who is capable of weighing evidence, and
of feeling the weight of an argument, will not, without some hesi-
tation, say that it was all delusion, deception, and mistake. For
as Cicero observes, a certain weight of evidence is capable of
making the most improbable thing, probable. And here a wit-
200 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
ness apparently competent and respectable, testifies to what his
own eyes saw, hands felt, and ears heard. And this repeatedly,
and not himself alone, but as he expresses it, scores of other wit-
nesses, saw, heard, felt, and smelt^ the same. This last sense
bemg most distressingly tried on one occasion, when he, being
with many others in the room with one Margaret Rule, a bewitch-
ed girl, her mouth was widely opened, and as she said, pulled
open by her invisible tormentors, the witches, who as she assert-
ed, endeavored to thrust burning brimstone down her throat.
To Mr. Mather, the invisibles were not visible, but the smell
of burning brimstone, although none was seen by him, was in a
high degree suffocating. Nor was this all that his senses testified.
For he distinctly saw spots on the girl, burned to a blister; which,
as she said, and as he believed, was done by spectral fire, used
by invisible agents.
He also says, that he saw many pins sticking into her skin
;
and that this was done by the invisibles, he is certain, because her
attendants had previously taken every pin from her clothing, and
left none in her reach. All this, and twenty pages more, of mi-
nute, and collateral, and additional matter, are written by this
Reverend Divine from his own knowledge ; and in a style, of
'which as an example, we will here give the reader a quotation.
He says, " Wherefore instead of all apish shouts, and jeers, at
histories which have such undoubted confirmation, as that no
man that has breeding enough to regard the common laws of hu-
man society, will offer to doubt of them, it becomes us rather to
adore the goodness of God, who does not permit such things every
day to befal us all, as he did sometimes permit to befal some few
of our mifeerable neighbors."
He tells us that for the first nine days of this Margaret Rule's
illness, or as he calls it, afl^liction, that she without any emaciation,
or debility, or decay, or loss of spirits, took no food. Her teeth
would be set if food was offered her, and as to the liquids got
down in that period, a spoonful of rum was the most considerable.
She had by her invisible tormentors, however, something pour-
ed down her throat in this period, which her utmost efforts to spit
out could not clear her mouth of; and which she said was scald-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 201
iiag brimstone. This, the Divine tells us, was commonly invisi-
ble, although the act of deglutition was apparent.
He does not tell us that he ever saw any of that odd liquor, of
which she cried out as of scalding brimstone poured down her
neck. But of the scent of brimstone burning, throughout the
house, which he and other people in the house were scarce able
to endure, himself and scores of witnesses could testify.
He also tells of some of this liquor, as well as some of a white
powder, having once been seen, actually visible, as he states, the
former on her neck, and the latter on her cheek. This white
powder was used by Margaret's invisible tormentors, as it seems,
*' to extremely incommode her eyes."
We are told, besides the melted brimstone and this eye powder,
of scalds, pin-pricks, black and blue pinches, upon this girl. And
we are told that the scalded spots required medical applications.
Still, it does not appear that any injury which she, or any one
else received, was any thing more than very superficial, and
trifling ; and of such a kind as persons who were malevolent and
wicked, and designing, might for the purpose of carrying on im-
posture, inflict upon themselves. Nor does it appear that any
physician was called to examine this liquor, or powder, or scalds.
Mr. Mather was pastor of the North Church in Boston, a Doc-
tor of Divinity, a Fellow of the Royal Society, and considered
eminent for his learning and piety, and as the most eminent di-
vine of his day. He died in 1727.*
He relates of this Margaret Rule, that on one occasion, she
was raised up to the ceiling of her room, where she was held so
fast that it required several persons to pull her down.
Many other particulars, equally marvellous, are stated by this
Doctor of Divinity. We may conclude by his summary reflec-
tions, that he was very well satisfied with this Salem witchcraft
and its results—for he says, " In the whole, the devil got nothing,
but God got praises, Christ got subjects, the Holy Spirit got tem-
ples, the church got additions, and the souls of men got everlasting
benefits."
* The Salem witchcraft happened whilst Sir Edward Andross, and Sir
William Phipps, were Governors of Massachusetts.
18
202 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
We are of opinion, however, that all these things may have
happened, and that they do happen, without witchcraft. And
that the hanging of nineteen innocent persons, is certain, but that
the devil got nothing, as he says, is uncertain.
Upon a kind of cross examination of affairs in the room of this
girl, in the presence of a Boston merchant, Robert Calef, we do
not find Dr. Mather's statements fully verified.
To the question, what does she eat ! it was answered, she does
not eat at all, but drinks rum,
Mr. Calef also states that whilst he was in her room, she desired
the women to be gone, saying that the company of the men was
not offensive to her. And that having hold of the hand of a
young man, said to have been her sweetheart formerly, who was
withdrawing, she pulled him again into his seat, saying he should
not go that night.
She had occasional fits, and when she came out of them, she
was in a merry, talking mood.
This witness did not smell the brimstone, which was said to
have been melted whilst he was in the room. He writes, for he
has left an account of the Salem witchcraft, that he was told by
her attendants, that when the Rev. Mr. Mather visited her, that
their conferences were sometimes so private, that even the girl's
mother was not admitted into the room. But this statement was
denied by Dr. Mather. Indeed, Mr. Calef's representations were
so different from those of the Doctor, that he was arrested, both
by him and his father, for slander.
The father of Cotton Mather, was Increase Mather, D. D. then
President of the only college then in the United States, that of
Harvard. There was an arrest, or action brought, however, and
nothing more. Mr. Calef not being met before the court of ses-
sions by his accusers, either of them, was discharged of course.
§ 7. There are, so far as we know, m every country, under
different appellations, some pretenders to magical art. Egypt
had its sorcerers and magicians ; Greece and Rome had their
diviners and soothsayers ; the Scotch have their men of second
sight, and in Spain they have a sort of persons called Zahars,
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 203
who pretend that they can see what is going on in the bowels of
the earth.
It will not do to deny every thing for which we cannot account,
or give a reason. Why grass is green, and not red, like the rose,
and why the violet is blue, and not green like the grass, we may
not be able to comprehend, and yet we cannot deny.
It has been supposed, that what is called casting out devils,
was nothing more than the healing of persons who had fits of
epilepsy, or falling sickness. This hypothesis receives some
countenance, from what is said in one or more places, of the sub-
jects falling oft into the fire, and water, and foaming at the mouth.
Those who have epilepsy, fall suddenly down, let them be in
never so much danger of fire or of water. They also foam at
the mouth, which foam is sometimes bloody. They likewise have
their head drawn on one side.
The present writer had a patient so badly burned by falling
into the fire, in one of these kind of fits, that she died. In some
respects, therefore, this hypothesis holds good.
But the account given by St. Luke, of the demons in the per-
son, requesting to have the liberty of entering a herd of swine,
and of their being permitted, and of their hurrying the animals
into the sea, cannot be identified with any known disease.
In the Salem trials, one of the witnesses attested, that a drove
of fourteen oxen, turned out upon a beach, ran away from those
who attempted to drive them up, took to the sea, and with the ex-
ception of a single ox, were drowned.
The witness supposed these oxen to have been bewitched, and
that the witch was one Susannah Martin, then on trial for her
life.
In those times of delusion, any accident that could be laid hold
of, that could be compared to any thing in the Bible, in which
demons or devils had a hand, was eagerly applied to the passing
transactions.
The case of the swine, and the case of these oxen, were simi-
lar, so far as related to the drowning. And hence, in a trial for
life, such testimony was admitted by the court, that the jury might
apply the mischief to the accused, of drowning the oxen !
204 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
The trial, examination, and imprisonment of persons for witch-
craft, was preceded by prayer.
§ 8. It was in the latter part of February, 1691, that several
young persons, in Salem, were observed to act strangely, by
creeping into holes, under chairs and other household furniture.
Among these were the daughter and niece of Mr. Parris, the min-
ister of Salem. They at the same time made nonsensical speech-
es, used odd gestures, and put themselves into strange postures.
This was the denouement of the maniacal delusion which
spread into Boston, and into fourteen or fifteen other towns.
It began in the family of the minister, and to add wormwood
to his gall as he expressed it, there were in his own family both
accusers and accused. Elizabeth Parris, his daughter, Abigail
Williams, his niece, and Ann Putnam, were the chief accusers, in
the first stage.
On the 1 1th of March, a day of fasting and prayer was held
at this minister's house.
These girl& were all young, one of them not more than eleven
or twelve years old. Several of Mr. Parris' professional brethren,
neighboring ministers, met at his house on occasion of the fast.
A few days previous to this, it appeared that Mr. Parris' Indian
woman Tibuta, made a cake of rye-meal, wet up with the chil-
dren's water, which she baked in the ashes, and gave to a dog.
This was done in order to discover who the witches were that tor-
mented these girls, one of whom had fits. Poor Tibuta's manoeu-
vre was attended with adverse efi*ects to herself, for she was the first
whom these girls accused of bewitching them. She was imprison-
ed, and confessed sufiicient knowledge of witchcraft, and converse
with the devil, to save her life. For, by a strange, and perfectly ab-
surd course ofjudicial proceedings, any one who was accused, and
who confessed guilt, at the first examination, was permitted to go
away without being imprisoned, prest, or hung ; whilst those who
asserted their own innocence were almost certainly convicted, and
punished with death.
It seems a sufficiently marvellous mark of the times, that before
the Superior Court of Massachusetts, a criminal pleading guilty,
should by it be deemed innocent. But such being the case, as
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 205
the delusion spread, persons perfectly innocent, who were accu-
sed, were implored by their families, and even mothers, by their
children on their knees, to confess guilt, as the only possible way
of saving their lives.
Some conscientious and innocent women complied, and after-
wards, when the storm had subsided, published the truth of the
matter.
The' Indian woman, and two old women, one of whom was bed-
ridden, were the three first persons implicated.
But accusations were not confined to squaws and old women.
They soon spread to respectable men and women, to ofiicers,
church members, and to one minister of the gospel. And to be
accused, where spectral evidence was admitted, involved impris-
onment, confiscation of property, ruin of character, trial for life,
and death by hanging.
Nor were accusations confined to adults ; for an infant of be-
tween four and five years of age was accused, and—and what ?
Is it possible that there could on earth have been, even in those
mad times, a judge or a justice, who would have noticed such an
accusation '?
Yet such was the fact, and the poor little innocent
was committed to prison ! And what was the evidence against
it ? Why the prints of its spectral teeth—(teeth which it had
never shed,) were exhibited on the arms of its accusers !
Next came the brute creation. Two dogs were put to death,
one for being a witch, and the other poor fellow, for being be-
witched. And it is worth notice that the latter dog was the
only creature that was put to death by authority, for being afflicted,
as it was termed. The strange acting girls, who crept into holes,
and took brimstone, were not the witches, but the bewitched ; and
yet these bewitched persons were suffered to testify in cases of
life and death, against persons of the first respectability !
In the case of the dog, he having been noticed to have some-
thing the matter with him, those persons who had the spectral
sight, were sent for. They accused a respectable man, Mr. John
Bradstreet, of afflicting the dog, and of riding upon him ! To
save himself, Mr. Bradstreet made his escape out of the state.
It was dangerous for civil officers to offend the accusers, or to
favor the accused. The former, including those of the minister'a
18*
206 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
family, had now increased to eight or ten. Their screeches, and
yells, were on one occasion appalling, in and about the court
house, when the Superior court was in session. The reason was,
that the jury had brought in a verdict of not guilty, in behalf of
one whom these malevolent maniacs had accused. This verdict
dissatisl&ed the court, as well as the bewitched. They were sent
out again, and returned with a verdict of guilty.
Dudley Bradstreet, Esq. a justice of the peace in Ahdover,
having granted out warrants, and committed to prison thirty or
forty persons, began to relent, and refused to issue any further
processes. Upon this he was himself accused of having killed
nine persons by witchcraft, and was obliged to fly to the District
of Maine, for his life.
There was, in the persons who declared themselves bewitched,
an evident depravity, and destitution of moral principle, but owing
to their having been, for the time, a privileged order, it was diffi-
cult to detect them.
Persons who were permitted to swear to what was done in the
court room, which neither judges, nor jurors, nor spectators, nor
other witnesses, could see any thing of, were indeed an order of
witnesses, sui generis.
No doubt the court itself stood in awe of these incarnate de-
mons, else it would not have suffered itself to have been insulted
by their screams and noise when a verdict of the jury did not
happen to suit them. In the selection of the persons whom they
accused, it is probable that they were actuated by principles of
revenge, either on their own account, or on account of some of
their friends or confederates.
They frequently accused persons of murder, from the spectral
information, which, as they were suffered to say, the murdered
person, after his death, disclosed to them.
At the trial of Sarah Good, who with four others, was tried on
the 30th day of June, and all executed on the 19th day of the
following July, one of the accusers fell into a fit. Upon her
coming out of it, she cried out thM the prisoner had stabbed her
with a knife, in the breast, and had broken the knife ; a piece of
the blade was then produced. But in this instance, a young man
was called, who proved that this accusing bewitched witness had
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 20T
sworn falsely. He produced the haft, and part of the blade of a
knife, which the court having compared and viewed with the piece
broken off, which the girl produced, found that the latter belong-
ed to the former. The young man then testified, that the day
before, he happened to break his knife, in the presence of this
accuser of the prisoner, and that he threw away the part broken
off. She was then admonished by the court not to tell lies ; and
this was all the notice taken of a plain case of perjury, committed
in presence of the court. And still worse, she was after this suf-
fered to testify against the persons on trial.
There were women appointed to search the female prisoners
for extra teats, it being affirmed that such were on the bodies of
witches for his Satanic majesty to suck.
Upon the trial of Bridget Bishop, a jury of women found, as
they asserted, a preternatural teat upon her body ; but upon a re-
examination, a iew hours afterwards, there was no such thing to
be seen. It was this Bridget Bishop, who it was said, by looking
at the great and spacious meeting house, as she passed by it under
guard, demolished a part of it.
It does not seem to have occurred to those sage judges, that if
these witches had the power of stabbing a person in the court
room, without its being seen by themselves, and of demolishing
buildings by looking at them, that they might have demolished
the court itself, and despatched the witnesses.
It is stated that a physician first intimated that the girls in Mr.
Parris' family were bewitched. But we have some doubt of any
respectable man of the medical profession, having made any such
assertion, as his name is not given. Nor does it appear that a
single medical man was ever called to any one of these girls who
had fits, or as a witness on any of the trials. This goes very far
to prove that the professors of the healing art, set their faces
against the whole proceedings, as in duty bound. And by which,
we consider that they did an everlasting honor to their noble
art.
Of the liberal professions, it appears that divines and lawyers
may claim the whole glory among their own brotherhoods, of
what related to the Salem witchcraft.
^08 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Nineteen persons had now been hung for witchcraft ; and one
man by the name of Giles Cory, pressed to death, because he
would not plead.
A late president of Yale College, the excellent Dr. Dwight,
paid a visit to Salem, a few years before his death, as it would
seem, with special reference to inquiry into the history of a delu-
sion unparallelled in the New World.
From his account we learn, that more than one third of the
persons executed were members of the Christian church. One
of the number, Mr. Burroughs, had been a settled minister in the
town of Wells ; and that one hundred and fifty were imprisoned,
and two hundred others accused. At this period spectral evidence
was discontinued, and no more were found guilty by the jury.
Most of those in prison, were dismissed without bringing them to
trial ; and Sir William Phipps, the governor of the colony, being
at this time recalled, before his departure for England, pardoned
those under sentence of death. Such a gaol delivery America
had never seen, and it is hoped and believed, will never have oc-
casion to see again.*
In the early accounts of this witchcraft, there is no dislinction
made in titles, both men and women being called witches. Even
the learned Cotton Mather, calls his professional brother, the Rev.
Mr. Burroughs, a witch, instead of a wizzard. He was for
having him hung, and was gratified.
In the trials, the witnesses were suffered to testify to what
ghosts, spectres, appearances, and the shapes of persons, had
said and done, as well as to what the dead had told them. Seve-
ral penitent witches, were used as witnesses, and on one occasion,
several of them swore that the prisoner then on trial, together
with themselves, was baptized in the river at Newbury Falls, by
the devil himself ! and that they all, then and there, did worship
his infernal highness, on the bank of the river, kneeling !
Before the breaking out of the Salem witchcraft, as an epidem-
ic madness, there had been some sporadic, or scattering cases ;
and one person had been previously tried. This goes far to de-
yelope its history, and the suddenness and extensiveness of its
* April, 1693.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 209
spread. The people were prepared for it by predisposition.
Nothing grows faster than ill weeds, or is more contagious than
bad example, or has such allurements for vulgar minds, as strange
stories, which collect a crowd. The delusion swept away all
reason, all correct law, and all other diseases. Accidents, the
death of animals, the loss of children, and even sickness by fevers,
and the oversetting of carts, were all imputed to witchcraft.
Had the minister at Salem, in whose house the mischief began,
dismissed his squaw, and given his children each of them a sound
whipping, it might have saved the lives of twenty persons, and
the imprisonment of one hundred and fifty more.
We believe in days of fasting and prayer, but we do not believe
that they will answer in the room of family government. Nor did
they in this instance. The notice which these young persons,
and the Indian woman, saw taken of their eccentricities, encour-
aged them to go on.
Insanity is a state of mind in which all its principles are lost or
obscured, with the exception of /e«r, alone. And we shall see,
that it was the fear of pecuniary damages which gave the first
check to the madness of witchcraft.
The clergy, who have ever had unbounded sway over the minds
of the people of New England, with the exception of those of
Rhode Island, were all on the side of the reality of witchcraft.
Cotton Mather's account, entitled Wonders of the Invisible
Worlds was written by order of the Government of the State.
And as may have been expected, sanctions the proceedings of the
Superior Court, in condemning and executing the miserable ob-
jects of false accusers, false witnesses, and partial judges.
Increase Mather, his father, president of Harvard College, was
a believer in the reality of witchcraft, and an influential supporter
of his son's views, and of the Court's proceedings.
Had it not been that some spirited laymen beheld the whole
delusion with different eyes, and especially that Mr. Calefy a
merchant in Boston, boldly controverted the views of Cotton
Mather, inch by inch, it is impossible to tell to what unbounded
heights of horror, this devastating madness might have arisen.
Lieut. Governor Danforth, was at this period chief justice of
the Superior Court, for Suffolk county. The court convened for
210 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
the trial of persons accused of witchcraft in Boston ; and the
Chief Justice expressed his determination to take such decisive
measures with the supposed criminals, as would put a stop to its
progress. When news arrived of the reprieve, by Gov. Phipps, of
those previously condemned in Salem, so chagrined was his hon-
or, at the tidings, that he abruptly left the bench, and vacated his
seat for that session.
Susanna Martin, a widow woman, was one of those persons
who was tried, condemned, and executed at Salem. She is de-
scribed by Cotton Mather, in his " Wonders," as an imprudent,
scurrilous, and wicked creature. But the writer was evidently a
man of ardent passions, and of violent prejudices, especially
against supposed witches ; and approbated the proceedings of the
court which tried, condemned, and had her hung.
This poor widow gave answers to the questions of the court,
upon her trial, which would not seem to corroborate that reverend
writer's account of her. Upon being asked by the judge, respect-
ing her accusers, who feigned fits, at her presence, how her ap-
pearance hurt them, meaning her spectral appearance, which they
asserted had also thrown them into fits, she replied, " How do I
know 1 he that appeared in the shape of Samuel, a glorified
saint, may appear in any one's shape." This answer intimates
that she knew nothing of her spectral appearance, although, we
think that she was so far under the influence of the prevaihng
opinion, that she believed that her own appearance was assumed,
without her knowing it ; and that if she did, in a spectral form,
appear to her accusers, that it might be owing to the same won-
derful being who appeared to Saul, in the shape of the prophet
Samuel—that if the witch of Endor, could assume, or could pro-
duce that prophet, or his appearance, when he had been long
dead and buried, and was, as she supposed, a glorified saint, that
the same power, the same witch of Endor, or any other witch,
might assume her form, or produce her appearance, without her
consent, or her knowing any thing about it ; the raising of Samu-
el, at the command of Saul, being an involuntary act on the part
of the prophet, and for which he reproved the king of Israel, al-
though he did appear at the instance of the witch of Endor.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 211
We do not see how a Coke, a Blackstone, or a Webster, could
have taken ground in her favor more tenable, more orthodox, or
more elevated.
She had previously denied, and no doubt truly, her knowing
what ailed her accusers, or of her ever having done any thing to
hurt them ; and when told by the sitting magistrate, that it was
her appearance^ she replied that she could not help it.
At this period of infatuation, the belief was almost universal,
that spectres did appear to persons and hurt them, and she was
probably of the common opinion.
She was asked whether she did not think that her accusers
were bewitched ; she answered, No, she did not think they were.
The magistrate then told her to tell her thoughts about them.
She replied no, her thoughts were her own when they were in,
but when they were out they were another's.
Those who have had that most distressing disease of sleep,
called incubus, or night-mare, will at once recognize it in the ac-
count given by one of the witnesses upon the trial of the said
Susanna.
One Robert Downer, testified that this prisoner having been
some years before prosecuted at court for a witch, he then said
unto her, he believed she was a witch ; whereat she being dissat-
isfied said, that some she devil would shortly fetch him away,
which words were heard by others as well as himself.
212 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
The witness stated, that the night following as he lay in his
bed, there came in at his window, the likeness of a cat, which
flew upon him, and took fist hold of his throat, lay on him a
considerable time, and almost killed him ; at length he remem-
bered what Susanna Martin had threatened him the day before,
and with much striving he cried out. Avoid thou she-devil, in the
name of the Father, the Son and Holy Ghost, avoid ; where-
upon it left him, leaped on the floor, and flew out at the window.
This was a decided case of nightmare.
Upon the whole it appears that those persons who pretended
that they were bewitched, were either young, credulous, ignorant,
or malicious, or all these combined ; and that some of them, as
did Cotton Mather, impute to witchcraft, some of the well known
symptoms of hysterics. We know that they aff*ect the jaws and
the throat as he relates ; and that the jaws will sometimes remain
long closely shut, so that nothing can be got down. Indeed, we
think that from our own patients, we might give a narrative
eqiiaily marvellous, of things that took place, as those which he
himself saw, in Margaret Rule ; for it is to be observed, that he
did not see her ^elws pulled open, nor see her burned, nor see pins
stuck into her, nor see brimstone melted and poured down her
throat. All these things he relates upon her own veracity, about
her invisible tormentors. And we do know, and every physician
knows, that women after having come out of hysteric fits, are
very commonly in a merry talking fit or mood, as Mr. Calef re-
lates, was the case with the said Margaret. And as to the num-
ber afi'ected, we can call to mind its parallel in our own practice.
Hysterical diseases, like most others, do sometimes appear as a
kind of endemic, though rarely. We had in one season, four
cases of young women, all of whom had fits, in one vicinity.
Another case not far ofl* we heard of and did not attend ; and
was consulted, about the same period, in another case, in the
same town. These cases occurred during a religious revival
;
and at the same period, a young man in the same place, and who
attended the same meeting, with the five girls first mentioned, be-
came insane^ so that we were obHged to chain him. All this
might have happened from any other cause, that violently excited
the mind. And they all recovered.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 213
As to Margaret Rule's not eating and yet not emaciating, we
know that girls will long have hysterite, and eat very little, with-
out apparently falling away. And as Dr. Mather was not all the
time with Margaret, she might have eaten more than was told
him.
The globus hystericus, which seems like a ball rising up into
the throat, and choking hysterical women, very satisfactorily ac-
counts for the swallowing motion which he observed in the said
Margaret, and which she said was the swallowing of brimstone
poured down her throat. Of this being actually the case, no one
now a days will believe a single word.
As to the prints of teeth which were exhibited, they appear to
have been on the arms, where the bewitched could inflict them on
themselves, which we believe that they did.* And it is not to be
overlooked, that these persons, after all the miseries which they
caused others, never one of them received any serious injury
themselves. We are not told that the girl who perjured herself,
by saying that she was stabbed in the breast by Sarah Good, ever
exhibited any wound ; or if she did, it was only a slight scratch,
which she had given herself.
The malevolence of these persons, their aim at notoriety, their
lust of power, and their contempt of authority, were evinced by
their screams and yells, in and about the court-house, when the
jury had pronounced a person innocent, whom they were deter-
mined to destroy.
A court which had any respect for its own dignity, and who
did not stand in some degree of fear of these malevolent demons,
would have sent them every one to prison. But a court which
could admit spectral evidence, and which could send out a com-
mittee to search for extra teats to nurse the devil with, and could
believe that a witness had been baptized by him, could believe
any thing, and hang any body. A court too that could send an
infant of four years old to prison, for being a witch, and biting
with spectral teeth ! was a most powerful aid in keeping up and
spreading the delusion of witchcraft.
* We very well know, and every physician knows, that women in hysteric
fits will bite themselves, or any thing that they can lay hold of. It is common
to hold a slick between their teeth to keep them from biting their own tongues.
19
214 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
The way in which this awful delusion was at length arrested,
was not by prosecutions, imprisonment, pressing to death with
weights put on the breast, as was Giles Corey, or hanging. So
long as these continued, this demoniacal madness also continued
and increased. The low rabble, aided by Cotton Mather, waged
a kind of servile war, through the courts, against people of reli-
gion, reputation and resources. Like Jack Cade, they were
willing to away to the prison, or to the gallows, with every one
who spoke Latin.
Notwithstanding the aid afforded by the Mathers, and by Judge
Danforth, yet we must award to Boston and its citizens, the credit
of having first struck a decisive blow to the progress of its course.
A gentleman in Boston,givas accused by a person in Andover,
of being a witch."^ He prosecuted his accuser for slander, and
laid the damage at a thousand pounds. This had not only the
happy effect of saving himself, but of ruining the cause of de-
mentia, witchcraft and sorcery, in the town where the accuser
lived. The final discomfiture of the malicious malady in Salem,
and other towns, was, as we have seen, by the reprieve of the
condemned, and the discharge of the imprisoned, and the non-
prosecution of the accused.
These things go far, very far, in proving that the whole was
the work of deluded, designing, or revengeful flesh and blood.
All was over now, and we hear no more of girls crawling into
holes, and under chairs, and of their having spectres bite them,
and appearances stab them, and pour brimstone melted, down
their necks ; or of men having cats take them by the throat.
What is cured by natural causes, is pretty certainly caused by
them. We now hear no more of these preternatural fits and
afflictions. Distress for the loss of those unjustly cut off by false
* We have asked ourselves why men and women were alike called witches,
when the term is only applicable to the latter 1 Cotton Mather, who knew
better, uses this improper language, as well as the rest. The probability is, that
they did not find in the Bible, any command that wizards should not be suffered
to live, so fully and plainly expressed, as that respecting witches ; and as they
were determined to hang men, as well as women, by ecclesiastical, or the Mo-
saic law, they gave them the name of witches, as well as women, and then the
words of Moses' law, "thou shalt not suffer a witch to live," would apply
to all.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 215
accusation, stains on the reputation of courts and character, and
the harrowing sensations of jurors, that they had pronounced
guilty, those whom themselves and others now believed innocent,
were sensations not to be easily obliterated.
The distress of the Rev. Samuel Parris, in whose family the
mania first manifested itself, was however of another kind. His
parishioners demanded his dismissal. The good man held his
place as long as was possible ; and the neighboring clergy, who
had with him upheld the delusion in its reign, now supported the
cause of their brother for his place. All would not avail ; he
was dismissed. One would have thought that after the horrid
scenes and sufferings which Salem had endured, that his retire-
ment would have been spontaneous ; especially as they probably
might have been prevented by himself, had he, in his own family,
punished the first symptoms of the aggressors, as he ought. He
had formerly been a merchant in the town of Salem, but having
in worldly prosperity, succeeded better in the pulpit, than behind
the counter, he clung to his station with a pertinacity truly aston-
ishing.
Those judges who hung the witches, ostensibly pretended to
take the Bible for their guide, especially that clause of it, in
which Moses says, thou shalt not suffer a luitch to live. Now
they ought to have considered that there is no definition given
how the criminal or the crime is to be discovered. We can easily
account for this indefinitude of the Bible. The Jews were under
a Theocracy. They had likewise an inspired lawgiver. There
could, therefore, have been no ambiguity in defining the crime,
or of discovering the criminal. Under the new dispensation,
these things are not so ; nor is there any command given to pun-
ish a witch. The mistake of these judges, consisted in applying
to one peopk;, a rule which was designed locally, and solely for
another. They ought, in order to have been consistent with
themselves, to have abstained from eating pork, to have observed
the seventh day as a Sabbath, and to have punished the people
for any breach of these laws ; and they ought also to have reflect-
ed, that there was no instance in the Bible, of a witch having
been punished with death.
216 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
§ 9. There have been men whose countenances were marked
by benevolence and hiimanitj, the perusal of whose actions
would lead us to suppose that we had fallen in with the records
of the infernals ; and there have been others, whose actions, at
one period, were marked by every virtue, and at other times black-
ened with every crime. We would refer such heads, together
with those of the Salem judges, to the examination of the phre-
nologists. And we wish them to consider well, that these judges,
with Cotton Mather, appear to have had their tender sensibilities
most wonderfully excited, in favor of girls who had pin-pricks,
and the prints of teeth upon their arms, and who at the same
time, cut off by death the most disgraceful, innocent men and
women ; and this without any seeming remorse or feeling ; leav-
ing families bereaved of a parent or member, with a legacy of
never ending disgrace in their stead. Nay, they subjected some
of their victims to more than death to bodies tender, and minds
refined. Delicate and well educated women, were compelled to
stand with their arms extended, till exhausted nature gave way
under the load of pain ; they were then put into prison, and
heavily ironed.
Is there a bump for superstitious practices, of the most revolting
kind, which gradually diminishes, as light, and equality, and
toleration, diffuse themselves, till it is lost entirely 1 Is there
another bump which rules, and which led those bewitched persons
to refer to their neighbors every disaster, and accident, and afflic-
tion, with which providence saw fit to visit them "?
If this bump
should not be found, we incline to think that there is in the world
a tendency still, in some people, similar to that which influenced
those persons ; that is, to impute sometimes to their neighbors,
what happens by the hand of heaven.
We want the bump pointed out for sinning and for repenting.
A man lately sent to the treasury of the United States, ten dol-
lars, which he, or as he said his partner, defrauded the govern-
ment of some twenty years before, in the admeasurement of some
cloth.
The phrenologists, in order for them to be consistent with
themselves, must be able to display a change in the bump, when
a man is cruel, and when he is merciful, when he is stealing, and
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 217
when he is restoring, when he is pugnacious, and when he is pla-
cable.
§ 10. Something in the shape of witchcraft, or of certain
magical practices or pretensions, existed in all the nations of an-
tiquity ; but we do not recollect any tragical events recorded, as
flowing from it, until the introduction of Christianity ; a system
which exceeds all others in every thing, and which gives no sanc-
tion, either positive or implied, for punishing a witch. This
shows the tendency of superstition to pervert the best systems to
unhallowed purposes. It is true that Nebuchadnezzar, king of
Babylon, threatened to slay his astrologers, for not interpreting
and revealing to him his dream, which Daniel afterwards did ;
but this threat does not appear to have been executed.
That ancient nation the Egyptians, exceeded all others in all
kinds of knowledge, in which that of magic was included." The
rods of their sorcerers, we are told, became serpents, as did that
of Aaron, and that blood and frogs were produced by them, as
by him.
A modern English writer. Dr. Ferriar, has written a theory
of apparitions, which he endeavors to prove to have been imagin-
ary beings, and that those who supposed that they saw them,
were laboring under certain bodily diseases, which affected their
minds with a peculiar kind of false vision, bordering on delirium
and insanity. This writer has given an account of a magical
performance, which is taken from Lucian. Lucian was an elegant
scholar, and a philosopher of Samosata, in Syria, and was made,
by the Roman Emperor, Register to the governor of Egypt.
This was in the second century, after the Christian era. He vis-
ited many different countries, and Athens, among others. His
account is as follows : Eucrates says that he became acquainted
with Fancrates, who had resided twenty years in the subterrane-
ous recesses, where he had learned magic from Isis herself At
length he states, he persuaded me to leave my servants at Mem-
phis, and to follow him alone, telling me that we should not be at
a loss for attendants. When he came to any inn, he took a pin
of wood, a latch, or bolt, and wrapping it in some clothes, when
he had repeated a verse over it, he made it walk and appear a
19*
218 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
man to every one. This creature went about, prepared supper,
laid the cloth, and waited upon us very dexterously. Then when
we had no further occasion for it, by repeating another verse, he
turned it into a pin, latch, or bolt, again. He refused to impart
the secret of this incantation to me, though very obliging in every
thing else ; but having hid myself one day in a dark corner, I
caught the first verse, which consisted of three syllables. After
he had given his orders to the pin, he went to the market place.
Next day, in his absence, I took the pin, dressed it up, and repeat-
ing the syllables, ordered it to fetch some water. When it had
brought a full jar, I cried, " Stop, draw no more water, but be a
pin again." It was in vain, however, that I reiterated the com-
mand of as you were ; the perverse pin continued his employ-
ment till he had nearly filled the house. I not able to endure this
obstinacy, (continues Eucrates,) and fearing the return of my
companion, lest he should be displeased, seized a hatchet and
split the pin in two pieces. But each part, taking up a jar, ran
to draw more water ; so that I had now two servants in place of
one. In the mean time Pancrates returned, and understandings
the matter, changed them into wood again, as they were before
the incantation.
This pin story, teaches us that it is dangerous to raise stronger
spirits than we can lay. It reminds us of the Egyptian rods^
turned into sei-pents. It coincides with sacred history, in one
point, that of canfirming the strange faculty of the magicians of
Egypt, and in this respect it is not unworthy of notice. Any
sketch from profane history, which throws light upon sacred, we
always read with the greatest avidity. We have besides, another
object in view, in adducing from credible historians, examples of
this kind, which will appear hereafter.
We shall only remark here, that we received from a creditable
and respectable eye witness, Capt. B. the relation of a phenome-
non very similar, except the part relating to the water, and split-
ting the pin, to this story of Eucrates.
Every nation, at every epoch, have had and still have some-
thing to relate upon what they deem veracious testimony, which
sets at defiance the limits of common sense and general know-
ledge, which shows, either that there is in nature certain obscuri-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 219
ties and marvels, which she does not choose to reveal all at once,
but to deal them out at scores or centuries of years apart. Or
that there is by search, and study, and attention, and initiation,
occult mysteries, which may be found out. We see that it cost
Pancrates twenty years study, in the subterranean cells of Egypt,
under Isis herself, to produce his water bearer.
Magic, magical practices, and sorcery, are however, in all their
relations, the quackery of philosophy ; which has its quackery as
well as the medical art. Both, when the truth in all its purity and
lustre is known, turn out to be imposture and empiricism.
Very different are those phenomena of the human frame when
afflicted with nervous and some other diseases.
§ 11. Why the eye sees, and the ear hears, we cannot tell,
except by experience ; and yet there is no empiricism in seeing
with the ears, and hearing with the eyes ; nor no imposture, but
only a change produced by disease. And the same is the fact re-
specting those who could tell colors by the touch ; but these things
being so extremely rafe, pass with the multitude for magic and
witchcraft ; or rather did formerly, for there is at the present peri-
od, so general a diffusion of literature, and books, and informa-
tion, that it is likely to ruin the cause of witchcraft and magic,
and to restore the present and rising generation to correct modes
of coming at the truth, and of explaining singular, and strange,
and far apart phenomena.
§ 12. We have ourselves seen a young woman of about fif-
teen, who whilst in fits, could accurately tell the color of any kind
of cloth, by feeling it with her fingers. Her name was Nancy
Hazard ; and she could tell woollen, silk, and cotton, when woven
into small stripes, in the same garment, and the colors which
they bore, although each kind of material had a different color.
This she did of a vest which we happened to have on when we
first visited her. The main fabric of this vest was woollen, with
a very narrow perpendicular stripe of four fine threads of cotton,
and the whole crossed off with an equally fine stripe of silk. We
had not then noticed all the materials of this garment, nor did
we at first think that she was correct, till upon getting some per-
220 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
son, skilled in fabrics of the kind, to look at it, it proved true, and
our own eyes bore witness, upon inspection of it afterwards. We
have preserved a piece of this vest, for more than thirty years,
and it is now stitched to the margin of the volume in which an
account of this singular case was first pubUshed, drawn up by
myself.
These things she told by feeling alone, and that she had never
seen it, we knew, for she was in a fit with her eyes closely drawn
together, and the vest was a new one, and never had been worn in
her presence, if worn at all, before. Our surprise to be sure, was
excited, notwithstanding what Dr. Perry, whose copartner in
medical business I then Avas, had related to me of her being able
to distinguish her father, when she was in a fit, merely by touch-
ing his hand, with the ends of her fingers, and with her eyes
closed. Many other instances of the surprising results of her ex-
treme, but diseased sensibility, had also been told me.
But to prevent all deception, and to ascertain that she told
colors by the sense of feeling alone, we had a pillow put before
her face and eyes, and held around her head by a person standing
behind her. We did this for the satisfaction of others, to whom
we might afterwards happen to mention her case, for as to our-
selves, we just as well knew that she could not see before the pil-
low was put there, as after it was ; for the reason, that her eyes
were shut, and shut by the spasm of her fit, which she had no
control of—no power over ; and therefore, she could not have
opened her eyes if she had been so minded. We varied the ex-
periment, and repeated the same, by presenting her, whilst the
pillow was closely held before her eyes, with substances of difter-
ent colors, but she as accurately, and usually as quickly, told
their various, and even mixed hues, as other persons could do
with their eyes open. But it was all the effect of disease ; as
soon as her fit was entirely gone off", she had no more power of
telling colors by the touch, than any other person ; and when her
fits were severe, so as to produce convulsions, she could not of
course, tell any thing. The next time I visited her, I witnessed
something almost as extraordinary in relation to her acute ness of
smell. She had given proofs of this before we saw her the second
time. One of her attendants, whilst she was in a fit, took a small
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 221
vial of oil of lemons, and held towards her. She drew in the
fragrance with an incessant, convulsive kind of snuffing, she
being extremely partial to the odor of that substance. It was
then carried out of the room, and she, with her eyes shut, direct-
ed her face, as she lay on the bed, towards the passage the per-
son went out at. Before it was carried out, her musician rubbed
the end of his finger around the mouth of the vial. He did not
turn the vial up, and there was not the least particle of the oil, or
essence in a fluid state, upon that part—there was nothing but the
remains of the concreted oil. After the vial was carried out, he
put his finger under the bed upon which she was lying, about half
way between it and ihe floor. She instantly turned over on her
face, and snuffed with the most eager intenseness, in order to m-
hale the small remains of her beloved odor.
This girl, Nancy Hazard by name, had as we have before inti-
mated, the extraordinary faculty of distinguishing her father's
hand by the touch, in her fits, soon after their commencement.
It was discovered in this way. She had a propensity to beat her
breast with the ends of her fingers, in imitation of dancing, and
as if after a tune ; and when she seemed to strike so hard as to be
in danger of hurting herself, one of her attendants would place
his or her hand, where she struck. She seemed best pleased
when her father's hand was thus placed, and would refuse to beat
upon a strange hand. It was also discovered, that the hand of
any one of her relations was preferred to that of a person not
akin. This propensity lasted for some weeks, when it suddenly
changed, and strange to tell, the touch of even a distant relation,
would increase her cruel spasms to a horrible height. She had
been bitten by a large black spider, upon the back of her hand.
I had recommended music, at a former visit, and it was now
made by an excellent performer on the violin. She did not now
dance with her fingers alone, but on her feet, long and laboriously.
But it was altogether spasmodic and involuntary. The music
regulated the spasms, moderated their violence, and reduced them
to regular order, instead of the irregular motions of convulsions.
But it did not cure them ; she got well by the discharge of a thick
green matter, resembliiig the juice of green vegetables, strongly
pressed out. It was discharged from the back of her hand, copi-
222 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
ously, this being the spot where the spider had bitten her. It was
compared to the juice of corn leaves and sage, with which dairy
women, in the part of the country where she hved, sometimes
color their cheese. But it is singular, that it was discharged with
a sloughing of the skin only, without the formation of an ab-
scess.
I have since been informed, by a respectable physician, residing
in the town where this girl belonged, that he lanced an abscess
upon a man's heel, which was occasioned by the bite of a spider,
and that the matter discharged was of a green color. The man
was a laborer, and went barefoot.
At one of my visits to Miss Hazard, I found her in rather a
severe fit, lying on the bed, and witnessed her extraordinary tact,
or the instinct of diseased nervous sensibility, with respect to her
relations, who had now all become utterly obnoxious to her touch.
At this time, her intelligent musician, supposed from her moving
her feet, that she Avished to be helped up to dance. She was
speechless. At that instant a distant relation happened to come
in to see her. Her eyes were closed, and it was impossible for
her to have known of his presence. But hearing her musician
speak of her being helped up, he immediately attempted to assist
her. The effect was such an instantaneous increase of her con-
vulsions, (they being before tonic,) that for a moment I felt alarm-
ed at her immediate death. He was peremptorily desired to desist.
Not being one of her relations myself, I helped her on to her feet,
and stood near her, for about an hour and a half, during which
time she continued dancing, but with such violent and exhausting
energy, that she would have fallen several times, had I not sup-
ported her. But after resting a minute, not more, she would re-
sume the exercise, unless the music stopped, in which case her
spasms, or convulsions, would resume their irregular action,
either of the tonic, or clonic kind.
As none of her relations could assist her, the family were
obliged, at this time, to procure those not akin, to take care of her.
It was even said, that when in her fits, her father's presence in
the room, aggravated their violence. When out of them, all this
aversion, as well as all the other marks of her morbid sensibility,
vanished at once.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 223
Her hearing was afterwards said to have been so acutely in-
creased, that she had been known to have heard what was said in
a whisper, in another room. Of this the present writer cannot
testify from his own knowledge, however. But he received his
information from a matron lady of the first respectability, to
whose hospitable dwelling Nancy was for a while removed, with
the hope that change of place and scenery, might benefit her
strange disorder, which continued from December until the next
August, with some remissions before, and with some invasions
after, that period. She finally recovered, and got married. It
occurred in Rhode Island, whilst the present writer practised in
that state. An account of it, with some further particulars, was
published in the New York Medical Repository, Hex. 2, Vol. I.
Art. 1.
It was remarked to the writer, by the late Dr. Todd, Principal
of the Retreat for the Insane, at Hartford, that it was the most
extraordinary case, that he had ever heard, or read of. But this
cannot now be said.
§ 13. The case of Jane C. Rider, reported by Dr. Belden, of
Springfield, and that of Mrs. Cass, by Drs. Bernard and Colby,
of Samstead, Lower Canada, exceed it in the marvellous. And
that of Miss M'Evoy, of Liverpool, is still more surprising than
the whole. All these are of a much later date. And they are all
so well and so respectably authenticated, as to be entirely beyond
the surmise of exageration. And perhaps that of Rachel Baker,
of New York, which also occurred since, was in some of its fea-
tures, as extraordinary as any thing that we have related.
A case is also mentioned by Dr. Rush, of which the present
writer took a note from his manuscript Lectures, and which is a
parallel to any one of the preceding.
In the cases of Nancy Hazard, Jane C. Rider, and Mrs. Cass,
there were some things common to all of them, and others, pecu-
liar to each. One thing common to all, was, that they would walk
the room in their paroxysms, and avoid running against furniture,
or obstacles of any kind, with their eyes shut, or rather drawn to-
gether with the spasms, just as accurately as well persons with
their eyes open could do.
224 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Another thing common to the three, was, that all that magie
sensibility, which formed so prominent a feature in each of their '
cases, depended entirely upon their being in their fits.
This last circumstance alone, does away the probability, or
even the possibility, of there having been any deception, or aim
at deception, in either of their cases—they not having the com-
mand of themselves, or of their disorder, any more than a person
who is struck down with the palsy, or has the pain of pleurisy in
the side, or hermicrania in the head, or of adontalgia, or tooth-
ache. It was also common, for all of them to be fatigued with
the exertion of their extreme sensibility.
Jane C. Rider, in her fits of Somnambulism, could read, in a
room made totally dark. She could also read, and did read, in
the presence of hundreds of respectable persons, with her eyes
covered, and their sockets filled with cotton, and then a thick black
silk handkerchief tied over the whole. And this, although her
eyes were already shut. The same experiment was tried, by
putting pieces of black velvet over her eyes, and tying them in
their place, with a bandage before her eyes. She even sat the
table, brought out the cofi*ee cups on a salver, which she turned
sideways to get through the door, cut the bread into slices, which
slices she afterwards cut into two pieces each, by dividing the pile
in the middle—went into the pantry when the window blinds
were closed, and the door shut after her, and skimmed the milk,
pouring the milk into one vessel, and the cream into another,
without spilling a drop. All this was done in the darkness of
night, without her having a light, and whilst she was in a fit, so
severe as to keep her eyes shut. She even threaded a needle in
the night with her eyes closed.
But that she saw, through her closed eyelids, as people do when
it lightens in the night, is evident, for in the day time, the light
hurt her eyes so, that when she was in her fits, with her eyes shut,
yet she would not suflfer the bandage from before them to be re-
moved for a single moment. Thus the increased sensibility of
the optic nerve was so marvellously acute, that the visual rays
would penetrate through her shut eyes, even with black velvet,
and a handkerchief tied before them.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 225
§ 14. This fact, as well as others which we shall adduce,
strengthens our theory of optics, that seeing consists in rays,
emanating from the eye, and meeting other rays, emanating from
the object seen. Hence different objects can be seen at different
distances, according as the eye abounds with a multitude of rays,
or only with a few of them ; or as the object towards which the
eye is directed, emits more or less rays, which depends on the
light, the clearness of the atmosphere, and the height of the
winds ; it never being very dark in the night when the wind blows
very high ; and always being very light in the day time when the
weather is cold and the winds boisterous.
The rays, or feelers of the eye, are secreted by that part of the
brain from which the optic nerves arise, and these rays are con-
veyed outside of the optic nerve, to its expansion into the retina,
when they become visual rays, and are emitted and become sight
by the medium of light. When a certain portion of them are ex-
pended, the eye feels their loss, by the fatigue of sight and light,
and requires the organ's quiesence, and finally its complete re-
pose in slumber and darkness. Hence sleep ensues. High
winds affect the right line of rays, from the eye to the object, and
from the object to the eye ; so that, although it may be lighter in
the day time, during clear cold weather, when the winds are high,
yet vision cannot be extended to very distant objects so accurately
as when it is calm. A copious secretion of visual rays, enables
a person to see with less light, than when the secretion is sparing.
In the case of Dr. Belden's patient, Miss Rider, this secretion
was so profuse as to enable her to thread a needle with her eyes
shut, in a dark room. And as the air pump can never exhaust
every particle of air, so no place can be commonly made so utter-
ly dark, but that some light remains, or finds admittance.*
Enough indeed for Miss Rider to see to read in her fits, but not
when out of them.
But perhaps her reading in the dark, was not the most extraor-
dinary trait of her disease ; for like Mrs. Cass, and Rachel Baker,
* It is evident that the eye does not see until the secretion, transmission, and
emission of these visual rays, because it cannot see itself! No eye ever saw it-
self; in a glass it sees its image by reflection, but not itself.
20
226 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
she appeared to haye a double soul, or a division of her soul, into
two distinct parts.
Rachel Baker, of New York, would preach excellent sermons,
and make prayers, one of which we have read, and never read
nor heard a better, or more appropriate one. But it was only
whilst she was in a state of sleep, reverie, or somnambuhsm.
When she was awake, she had no faculty or gift of the kind.
This was repeatedly ascertained by Dr. Mitchell, and her nu-
merous other visitors. Her waking soul could remember the
things of time and sense, and the occurrences and business of
the day ; but the soul of her reverie, could only recollect things
serious, sacred and divine. It could connect one discourse with
another, upon those important subjects. But being awake, and
clothed and in her right mind, the chain was broken, the connec-
tion lost, and nothing but a secular soul remained, until another
paroxysm bid it give place to an essence, or entity, or spirituality,
more etherial. So Miss Rider could only sing in her fits, and
knew nothing of that art, out of them. She could repeat poetry,
which she had heard, or read over, but had not committed or re-
tained in her waking memory, but which was retained in her
sleeping or reverie one. When in her fits, she could repeat a
piece of poetry called the Pilgrim Fathers, and another called
the ^now Storm, with precision of style, correctness of taste, and
elegance of manner. But even after having recited these pieces,
both spontaneously, and at the request of her visitors for weeks,
her physician ascertained that when out of her fits and in her
normal state, that she could not repeat even one single stanza of
either of them. Her sleeping or reverie fits at first attacked her
only in the night, but they afterwards invaded her in the day time,
and for the first time, as she was obtaining water from the pump,
out of doors ; and that then her vision became so keen that she
could see the sun through the clouds, was proved by her remarks,
which were
—
What a beautiful day it is—koip bright the sun
shines, when in fact it was quite cloudy.
She was afterwards carried to the Insane Hospital, at Worces-
ter, under the care of Dr. Woodward ; and it became evident
there, as it had done to Dr. Belden, before she went there, that
her reverie or somnambulism mind, was distinct from her waking
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 227
one, by her hiding things which she could not find herself when
out of her fits, but which she found without difiiculty, when anoth-
er paroxysm occurred. At the hospital, she was seen to read
with her eyes closely bandaged, with pieces of black velvet over
them, under the bandage. And in this situation, she learned the
game of back-gammon, and so rapid was her progress, that she
won the sixth game of Dr. Butler, an experienced player, but
whose hints, respecting her movements, she would not follow, but
took her own course, and the result shewed the accuracy of her
reverie-judgment. But when after this she awoke, or came out
of her fit, it was proposed to her to play a game of back-gammon,
she professed her entire ignorance of the game, and that she
never saw it played. On trial it was found that she could not
even set the men,* She learned it however, whilst awake, but her
waking mind proved far inferior to her sleeping one, in the man-
agement and success of her movements in the little-battle of
back-gammon.
That Miss Rider actually saw when her eyes were shut and
bandaged, was justly inferred from her holding up things before
the bandage, as other people do before their eyes, and by her
then telling what they were, and reading a book correctly.
In the case which occurred at Sanstead, Lower Canada, to
Drs. Bernard and Colby, the patient, Mrs. Cass, made very
good poetry of a religious kind, and exhorted, and sung, when iri
her fits. Her aptitude for rhyming, was the effect of her illness,
as she had never shewn any taste of the kind in health. This
woman's sight, or at any rate her faculty of perceiving what was
done in her room, had been transferred to other nerves than those
of her eye ; and in this respect her case resembled that of Miss
M'Evoy, hereafter to be noticed ; both of whom were furnished
with substitutes to their organs of vision ; Mrs. Cass, when in
her fits, and Miss M'Evoy, when blind, by defect of her eyes,
when in her right mind.
* The reader who wishes to see a more full account of this interesting case,
can consult the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xi. Nos. 4 and
5, where he will find a well written account of it by L. W. Belden, M. D. of
Springfield, Mass. We introduce our own physiological and pathological
views, of which others will judge, upon this and other cases.
228 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
In relation to all these cases, as well as to that which we shall
hereafter notice, derived from the venerable Dr. Rush, a remark
of Dr. Colby is very appropriate, viz. that hy those 2vho disre-
gard all testimony he does not expect to he heard; and that, 2/"
facts 'are to he rejected, the inductive principles of Bacon will no
longer give certainty to science, and they of course, ivill he rejected
hy all who refuse to be convinced hy the weakness of human testi-
mony.
Those who deny that Miss Rider could see in a dark room, are
desired to find a place so dark that a cat cannot see in ? And
those who deny that the office of the optic nerves may not be
transferred to other nerves, or that by means of the nerves, that
there may be perception without contact, otherwise than by the
eyes, are referred to the experiments made upon the bat, by Spal-
lanzanni ; which creature when blmded, and even after its eyes
had been extirpated, or to use the words of the late Dr. Pardon
BoWEN, had heen all dug out, would fly about a room, in which
cords and lines had been made to cross each other in every possi-
ble direction, without flying against, coming in contact with, or
touching one of them. These remarks he made to the present
writer, in relation to the case of Nancy Hazard.*
§ 15. We think upon the subject of optics, that the nervous
rays are secreted by that part of the brain from which the second
pair, or optic nerves arise ; and that in some cases, that it may be
so conducted by other nerves, to other parts, besides the eye, as to
answer the purposes of vision. But we do not think, that when
that part of the brain which secretes the optical rays, becomes so
diseased as to lose its office, that this can ever possibly be done.
We once attended the post-mortem inspection of a man who
had died with a lingering disease of the brain ; who during his
illness, and it was long, had a variety of anomalous symptoms,
and for about the space of three weeks, had been totally blind,
before his death. There was in this case, a softening of that
part of the brain from which the optic nerves arise, so as that the
nerve of one side was entirely detached from the main part of
* Dr. Colby refers to Dr. Good, as having noticed this peculiarity of the bat's
avoiding obstructions that are neither seen, smelt, heard, touclied or tasted.
THE TONGUE OF TIMfi* 229
the cerebrum or brain, with a piece of the latter, however, hang-
ing or attached to it, of about the size of a wahiut. The other
optic nerve, or that branch of it which went to the other eye, was
much in the same state, though not entirely detached. Around
the detached portions of the brain, and in the cavity from which
they had been separated, there was a semi-fluid substance, re-
sembling the matter of scrophulous abscesses. In this case, or
in any case having any similarity to it, we should not expect that
the same phenomena which occurred in the cases of Mrs. Cass,
and Miss M'Evoy, could possibly occur ; and nothing of the
kind had occurred in this man.
§ 16. Upon the subject of metastasis, to which Dr. Colby
refers, we have seen the history of a case, arising from the me-
tastasis of small pox, in which all the phenomena of extreme
sensibility were the consequences which we have related to have
occurred in the case of Nancy Hazard, and with some manifesta-
tions still more striking.
§ 17. Mrs. Cass for a while was entirely blind, which goes to
prove that the visual rays which usually go from the brain to the
eye, had a transfer or metastasis to other nerves, for when blind,
and with her face turned towards the other part of the room, she
could still perceive, and tell every person who came into her
room, and every thing that was done in it, even to the moving a
vial, and all correctly ! She appears also to have kept the hour
of the day and night by her own feelings, without the aid of a
time piece. And one of her physicians says, that " guided by
her internal sensation she directed means for her recovery."
These means were cupping four times on her stomach, and the
use of the Avarm bath. The latter had not been suggested before,
but it was resorted to, and Mrs. Cass ultimately recovered, after a
degree and length of suffering seemingly too much for human
nature to endure. For four weeks at one time, she was in her fits
of reverie, without any other sleep than somnambulism. And
when she was entirely blind with her eyes, she was still so dis-
tressed at the approach of light, that her attendants were obliged
to keep the room in darkness. This is certainly as strong a proof
•20*
230 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
of the transfer, or metastasis of visual perception, as can possibly
be adduced or desired.
The wit and sarcasm, sometimes manifested by Mrs. Cass,
shews that some part of her sufferings was owing to that hydra-
headed disturber of female comfort, hysterics^ a disorder which is
regular in nothmg but irregularity.
This transfer of the senses is not entirely a new thing, although
its being so extremely rare, has caused it to be denied, and that
from a source from which we should have little expected.
§ 18. Dr. Rush, who seldom omitted to notice any well au-
thenticated fact, however strange, which could throw light upon
his profession, has left a case of the kind upon record. It was
that of a woman who lived near Lyons, who had a confusion of
all the senses. She tasted with her touch, and heard with her
eyeSj w^hen her ears were closely stopped.
When the present writer's account of Nancy Hazard's case
was first published, he feared with some of his friends, that he
had laid his own veracity, and the belief of his readers, under too
heavy a load ; whilst those who were much with her, and espe-
cially a gentleman who was an amateur on the violin, and who
attended day and night at her abode, in order to mitigate her ter-
rible fits by music, thought that I had passed too lightly over the
wonderful features of her case. It is true that there were some
things told by others, which he did not see himself, which were
omitted : he was then young, and the case new. But up to the
present time, cases of a similar kind, (except their not having
arisen from the bite of a spider,) have so much multiplied, that
Miss Hazard's case is somewhat thrown into the shade. Such
cases are wonderful because few and far apart. Still, there does
not appear to be any thing in anyone of them, absolutely incon-
sistent with philosophical and physiological principles.
§ 19. But after all, a gentleman of another profession, that of
Divinity, has given a case from his own examination, which ex-
ceeds all that the physicians who have related the foregoing cases,
have told ; and it differs from them all, in this, that the young
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 231
lady who was the subject of his experiments, was not in fits, and
never appears to have been afflicted with them.
The Rev. T. Glover, is the clergyman alluded to, and Miss
M'Evoy, of Liverpool, the patient, who became blind in 1816, in
the month of June. The cause of her blindness, as supposed,
was water on the brain, hydrocephalus internus. Of this head-
dropsy, she was relieved by the discharge of water from the ears
and nostrils, but this did not remove her blindness. The October
following, she accidentally discovered that she could read, by
touching the letters of a book. The Reverend gentleman visited
her, and found this to be the case, and he tells us that she read a
line or two of fine print by feeling the letters. Her age was then
about seventeen. But he did not fail of testing her powers, in
such a way as to satisfy himself, that her eyes had no agency in
her extraordinary faculty. He had her blindfolded, so that he
was certain that not a ray of light could penetrate to her eyes.
And he put her sight by feeling, to a test far more delicate than
that of reading. He first inclosed six wafers of different colors,
between two plates of common window glass, and as he tells us,
by touching the glass, " she accurately told the color of each."
Here then was something more than telling colors by the touch,
for she could not touch the colors. It absolutely appears that she
had sight at her Jinger-ends. Still, we will not decide this point
too hastily. But we must decide, that this was the fact, or that
her exquisite sensibility, could feel a reflection, a shadow, a shade.
And from what is next told us, by the Reverend Experimenter,
this rather appears to have been the true explanation. He says,
that " all objects appeared to her as if painted on the glass."
She was obliged to touch the glass in order to discover and de-
scribe the color, whereas, if she could have seen with her fingers,
what need would there have been for her touching the glass?
This and what follows, confirms our theory of optics better than
any experiment which we have known. It is that the rays of
the eye touch, or meet the rays from the object which is seen.
By touching the glass of the window, which looked into the
street, she could describe the passers by, and what was going on,
and what was lying there. But it does not appear that \eYj dis-
tant objects were to be discovered by her.
232 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
In one of the experiments to which Mr. Glover subjected her,
he tells us that, on applying her fingers to the window, she per-,
ceived two newly cut stones, of a yellow color, lying the one on
the other, at the distance of twelve yards. And in the same way
she described a workman in the street ; two children passing by ;
a cart loaded with American flour ; another cart with loaves of
sugar, and a third cart empty, and a girl with a small child in her
arms. It did not appear that she had in her fingers, the sense of
taste, like the woman mentioned by Dr. Rush ; for she could not
tell the difference between pure water, and water mixed with salt,
by touching them. Nor was there the power of distinguishing
colors by touching colored articles with the tip of her tongue ; but
by putting the petals of flowers between her Ups, she could tell
their color, and the difference of color, in differently colored
petals, exactly. She could accurately describe persons whom she
had never seen before, by holding a piece of glass in her fingers*
betwixt them and herself, they seeming to be painted on the glass.
But without a piece of glass this she could not tell. She could
tell gold and silver from steel. She said that gold and silver felt
finer than other metals. Her feeling itself, therefore, must have
been extremely delicate ; but did it enable her to describe the
carts, and persons, and other objects in the streets of Liverpool,
or was there actual vision in her fingers 1 We were at first incli-
ned to the latter opinion. But from her being obliged to touch
the glass, we incline to the opinion that the whole must be refer-
red to the sense of feeling exquisitely sublimed. If she could
actually have seen, she could have described what was passing
in the streets, without touching the glass of the window. But
this she could not do.
As persons can, with the eye distinguish a shadow, a shade,
and a reflection, her sense of touch could do the same. The
nearer an object is to us, the plainer appears its shadow. Nor
are shadows and shades discernable at any great distance. And
agreeably to this theory, Mr. Glover tells us, that she said, that a
man at the distance of only twelve yards, did not appear to her
more than two feet high. And that an ornament, in imitation
of an orange, she mistook for a real orange, but said, that at the
distance of 30 inches, that it did not appear larger than a pea.
•
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 233
By touching a mirror with her fingers, she could perceive no-
thing but her fingers. But by holding a piece of plain glass
three or four inches from the looking glass, she could discover the
image of her own person. Yet, if the mirror was removed fur-
ther off, she said that her face was diminished in size.
Mr. Glover says, that her power of telling colors, was more
perfect at some times than at other times, and that at some peri-
ods it entirely failed, every thing appearing black to her.
The Reverend gentleman appears to have been a very accurate,
scientific, and philosophic investigator. And he carried his ex-
periments and trials of her surprising faculty, to the number of
twenty ; and with such a degree of scrutanizing accuracy, that
there was no possibility of deception, had she had any intention
to have deceived—but this she appears not to have had. And the
results were full and satisfactory. She could not perceive colors
in the dark, which is one of the strongest proofs of a metastasis,
or transfer, of the visual rays to her fingers. And that her power
of feeling so nearly resembled sight, that light was necessary.
In this respect she was unlike Nancy Hazard, Jane C. Rider,
and Mrs. Cass, all of whom had a morbid, or sickly sensibility.
A sensibility which existed only in fits, somnambulism, or reverie.
It was, therefore, more acute whilst it lasted, than the sensibility
of Miss M'Evoy, but it was less permanent. And the sensibility
of the latter was more consonant with health. It seems that upon
this point, that repeated trials were made, and that she failed in
them all. Objects differently colored, were put under a pillow,
and when she touched them, they all appeared alike dark. A
green card she once said was yellow. This is a proof that no
deception was attempted, and that light was necessary.
But there was one similar trait in Miss M'Evoy, to the three
patients mentioned above, which is yet to be more particularly
noticed. She had intervals in which she had not the faculty of
telUng colors, even when it was light, and when she also had that
necessary appendage, a pane, or piece of window glass, in her
hand. We refer this deprivation to the brain and optic nerves
;
and to their not secreting a sufficient quantity of the rays of vision,
to reach such distant parts as the ends of the fingers, unimpaired
in quality, or deficient in quantity, or both—nature having prima-
234 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
rily designed that these rays should reach only an inch and a half,
or a little more than two inches at farthest, to act on the eye
;
whilst in being transferred to the ends of the fingers, they had to
travel to the distance of at least three feet, in a person of less
than middle height.
And we ought not to omit to notice also, that when the rays of
visual perception, had reached thus far, that they met a very dif-
ferent and deficient apparatus, from the eye itself—we mean the
finger ends.
We view the brain as a vast secreting sui generis, gland ; des-
tined to secrete the senses, and we view the nerves as destined to
transmit them to their appropriate organs. And we view the
pineal gland, as a moving substance, designed to transmit on the
outside of the nerves, the nervous spirit or juice, and as being
the heart of the brain, in its circulating the sensual fluids, as
the heart of the body does the blood ; and that when diseased na-
ture errs, and sends the visual producing power to the fingers, or
to the nerves of other parts, besides the eye, that something like
vision may be produced, wherever it is sent.
Hence, when the woman mentioned by Dr. Rush, could hear
with her eyes, with her ears closely stopped, the auditory liquid
was sent to the eyes.
This also developes the reason why persons have been known
to hear, whose tympanum, or drum of the ear, was destroyed.
The extremities of the nervous fibrils, answering as a substitute
to the drum of the ear, and receiving the auditory spirit of the
brain, or liquid of hearing ; which, as related to sight, was in
the case of Mrs. Cass, transmitted to the surface of the body.
Miss M'Evoy could not only read by touching the letters, but
by the aid of a convex lens, she could read, and did read, in the
presence of Mr. Glover, with her fingers nine inches from the
book. He observes, that when reading, she gently rubs the up-
per surface of the lens with the tips of her fingers. She said that
the letters appeared larger through the lens than without it. The
reader must stiO remember, that she in this experiment, as in all
the rest, was so completely blindfolded, that not a ray of light
could reach her eyes, even if she could have seen—which she
could not, she being totally blind.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 235
We have seen it noticed by another visitor to this young wo-
man, that she could tell, and did accurately tell, the time of day,
hy feeling the glass, or crystal of a watch.
Mr. Glover tried her sense of feeling as to the seven prismatic
colors, painted on a card. To these she gave the names of scar-
let, buff, yellow, green, light blue, dark blue or purple, and lilac.
Mr. G. says, that as the orange paint was much faded, the term
buff was correctly applied to it.
When she was reading through the glass lens, by feeling it, a
penknife was laid upon the line, and she immediately perceived
it, and told what it was.
Why Miss M'Evoy was unable to discern objects which she did
not touch, only by the medium of a glass, Mr. Glover could offer
no conjecture.
Upon this point we would remark, that the eye is able to dis-
tinguish colors, shadows, and shades ; and that the reflection, or
shadow of any object is strongest when a transparent medium,
such as glass, water, or polished steel, refracts the rays of light.
As her delicacy of touch had acquired the acme of sight, the
problem has its solution by a reference to this fact.
And in the case of Miss Hazard, something of a parallel delica-
cy we ourselves witnessed. For after feeling the hand of any of
the spectators, (with a pillow before her eyes,) she would after-
wards tell, by feeling of a piece of money, to whom it belonged.
That is, if she had before felt the hand of its owner, and he handed
it to her.
We tried this experiment personally ourselves. But if a piece
of money belonging to another person, was handed to her by me,
it appeared to puzzle her to tell to whom it belonged, and if she
decided, she decided doubtingly, as to the two, i. e. as to myself
and the other person who had handled it.
The objects which Miss M'Evoy could distinguish and describe,
made a shadowy alteration on the surface of the glass, which her
fingers could distinguish, just as do the eyes of other persons.
Without entering at the present time upon a discussion of that
doubtful question, whether the images of things seen, are painted
in an inverted position upon the eye, or upon any part of it, we
will mention some things which do appear more evident.
236 THE TONGUE OP TIRIE.
1. Sight, is an emanation from the eye, of rays, which meet
another kind of rays, coming from the object, or objects, which
are seen, or the object itself. That the rays of vision must go out
from the eye, in order for it to see, is evident, because the eye
cannot see itself. No person ever saw his own eye, no eye ever
saw itself, although by means of a mirror it has seen its image.
Now if seeing be the inverted painting of the object seen, upon
the eye, why cannot the eye see itself, and describe its different
parts 1 Why not see its own pupil, and crystalin lens, and vitre-
ous humour, and cornea, and retina, and be able to point them
out 1 This no person can do, let his anatomical knowledge be
never so accurate, or his eyesight never so acute.
2. The rays going out from the eye, must meet the rays com-
ing from the object seen, or else vision will not ensue. And un-
less refraction takes place, both kinds of rays travel in direct
lines, and must of necessity so travel, in order to insure vision.
Seeing, is therefore one kind of feeling. And in Miss Hazard,
Miss M'Ev^oy, Miss Rider, and Mrs. Cass, feehng was one kind
of seeing.
3. We should place the rays of vision sent out by the eye, to
the account of the aqueous humour. This humour being a real
spirit, which will not freeze in the coldest weather ; it being also
secretable and renewable. For in cases where it has been let out,
as in extracting the cataract, it is again reproduced. The con-
stant expenditure of this humour, whilst the eye acts, calls for a
continued supply of it, and this nature has provided, for if it is all
pressed out, its natural cavity is again filled with it, and that so
soon as ten, twelve, or at farthest, twenty hours. This is well
known to operators who extract cataracts.
4. The rays coming from the paper upon which we are writing,
feel differently upon the retina of the eye, from the letters which
we make. And so of all other colors and objects.
A metastasis, or transfer, of the aqueous humour of the eye, to
the ends of the fingers, or to the other cutaneous nerves, would
enable a person's touch to perform the offices of the eye.
This we think is proved by the cases of the four women above
mentioned.
THE TONCUE OF TIME. 237
5. In the case of Dr. Belden's patient, th^re was an ability to
discern objects in a dark room. This faculty has been acquired
by prisoners who have been long confined in dark dungeons. And
in the case of Miss Rider, the patient referred to, disease produ-
ced the same power at once. Whilst bats have the same pecu-
liarity, naturally.
We learn, therefore, that one set of nerves are endued with the
ability of sometimes performing the offices of another set. This
is paralleled by one set of organs doing the duties of others which
are lost, or which nature never bestowed.
We have seen a boy in Peal's Museum, wrife legibly with his
pen between his toes, he having been born without arms or hands.
And we have seen very striking pictures which were drawn by a
girl, with the pen or pencil held by the mouth, she having been
born without fingers or toes.
And Dr. Good gives instances of persons having been able to
talk intelligibly, after their tongues had been entirely cut out.
And in relation to hearino^, it has been known still to have re-
mained, after the loss of the tympanum, and the eight little bones
of the ears ; the extremities of the auditory nerves, supplying
the loss of the whole complicated machinery.
When the teeth are lost, in aged people, the dissolving quality
of a certain very important liquor in the stomach, is so increased,
that the food is nearly or quite as well digested, as it was whilst
the teeth remained. This liquor is called the gastric juice. It
dissolves the food, and even corrodes and destroys metals, as was
proved in the instance of a foohsh fellow, who swallowed in imita-
tion of a mountebank, a number of clasp-knives. The experi-
ment however cost him his life, by one of the springs of the back
of a knife penetrating his bowels.
6. The rays of vision, the rays of light, and the rays proceeding
from an object in view, all agree in penetrating a transparent
medium, such as glass, diamonds, crystal, mica, &c. And they
all agree, also, in not penetrating any opaque substance. Whilst
the more dense substance, water, will be absorbed, or pass into
wood, but cannot make its way into glass. We saw an instance
of this to day. A door, which had panes of glass fixed into it,
exhibited no signs of moisture upon its surface, whilst on the
21
238 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
glass, the exhalations of steam from a stove in the room, stood in
drops, and even ran down in little rills upon the wood from the
7. There was one experiment to which the Rev. Mr. Glover
subjected Miss M'Evoj, which shewed the faculty of perception
in her fingers in a manner as exquisite as any one which we have
already noticed, and perhaps more so.
It would indeed of itself be sufficient to prove that she had the
quality of sight, or its congener in her touch. And had it been
seen by Sir Isaac Newton, would, as we think, have staggered
that philosopher in his theory, of that part of his optics, in which
he supposes that sight is the result of the object seen, being paint-
ed in an inverted position upon the retina of the eye. The ex-
periment was as follows
:
Two polished pieces of glass pressed togther, exhibited betwixt
them rings and circles ; and Miss M'Evoy, by touching the sur-
face of one of these plates, was able to perceive and to describe
them. They seemed to her, as she said, to be flying before her
fingers.
Had this, and the other manifestations of transferred sensibility,
which she, and the other ladies which we have mentioned display-
ed, been seen by Cotton Mather, he would undoubtedly have
referred them to witchcraft.
We cannot but here award the meed of praise to Mr. Glover,
for his perseverance, and patience, and ingenuity. He was three
days in making his experiments and observations. He had others
with him to witness the extraordinary phenomena exhibited, and
he frequently repeated them. The young woman received no
compensation from her visitors, and had no motive to have de-
ceived them, even if deception had been possible.
We have full confidence in the narrative of the Rev. clergyman,
and with increased confidence in ourselves, we can assure the
* The rays emanating from objects, are rays of light, colored with the par-
ticular color of the object seen. Those from a red apple are red, those from a
green apple green, and those from an orange yellow. In order for vision to
take place, these rays must meet those secreted by the optic nerves, whether
they are retained in the eye, or whether they be transferred to the fingers, or lo
some other part of the body.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 239
reader that what we have related with respect to Nancy Hazard,
iu our younger years, is fully in our remembrance, and entirely
correct.
8. We would refer to the rings and circles exhibited by pressing
together two plates of polished glass, as the visible concentration
of the rays sent out from the eye, the rays of light, and the rays
emanating from the glass itself, invisible combination, or mixture.
AVe may here inquire how the Newtonian theory of light, which
consists in its being formed of the prismatic colors, as emitted by
the sun, applies to the light given by the lamp, by which we are
at present writing ?
§ 20. We are told of Margaret Rule, Cotton Mather's be-
witched girl, that she was lifted up to the ceiling of her room, and
held so firmly that several persons were required to pull her down.
This the Rev. Doctor relates, as having himself been an eye
witness of.
A phenomenon exhibited by the house-fly, had he looked over
head in the room, might have been equally mysterious. We every
day see this insect crawling and sleeping with its back downwards.
A sight which is so common that we think little of its being, as
it is, very wonderful.
And we are told in the Life of Columbus, that the discoverer
of the New World, discovered a new mode of fishing among the
Indians of some of the Carribee Islands. It consisted in fasten-
ing a certain kind of live fish to the line, which by suction would
adhere so fast to the fish in the sea, that both were pulled out of
water together. This Jisliing-fish would sometimes hold on so
fast to a rock, as to suffer itself to be pulled apart, rather than
quit its hold.
Man, in health and in disease, both together, is a microcosm
of almost every phenomenon. And if we are to believe Mr,
M,ather, we must suppose that the girl's hysterical disease, fur-
nished her with the power of the house-fly, and of this fish, in
overcoming the power of gravity.
But it is more than probable, that this Margaret Rule held on
to a nail, or hook, or some other substance, with a convulsive or
hysterical grasp, which is even in weak women, sometimes ama-
240 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
zingly powerful—as we have seen a girl, in hysteric fits, who re-
quired five men to hold her on to the bed, and who would manage
a man at arm's end, just as she pleased, or rather as her convul-
sions tended.
We certainly ought to be cautious how we cry out witchcraft,
until we have ascertained what diseases, deprivations, idiosyncra-
sy, and training, will do.
Had Cotton Mather possessed the same knowledge, the same
tact of discrimination, and the same independent spirit, as the
Rev. Mr. Glover, we should have heard little, perhaps nothing at
all, of the Salem witchcraft.
The human frame is a structure of no ordinary wonder and
amazement, when in health. But when subjected to disease, like
the sea agitated by a storm, its appearances become still more in-
§ 21. The universality of deception is worthy of notice. There
are in the vegetable world, certain plants which resemble each
other, and in most of their sensible qualities appear alike, and
yet one of them is a wholesome nutritious food, whilst the other
is a noxious poison.
There are minerals which bear a near af&nity in appearance,
such as yellow arsenic and sulphur, and yet the former is deleteri-
ous even unto death, whilst the latter is a mild and useful medi-
cine.
There are serpents whose figure, color, violence, and spirit, are
commensurate with the most harmful of their race, and yet they
can only frighten, for they have no fangs, nor no poison.
In the heavens, clouds which send forth the hurricane, and
pour down the hail, have their exact patterns in other clouds which
do neither, but pass away to the east, and leave the western sun
more delightful, without moving a leaf or moistening a blade.
The fogbank, and the iceberg, delude the anxious mariner with
the hope of his near approach to land, but he finds himself de-
ceived, disappointed, and sometimes ruined.
Like the fig-tree, other trees and plants present the appearan-
ces of fruit fine and fair, and yet when approached, we find
nothinff but leaves.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 241
The mirage of the desert, which' is a refraction of the rays of
light by the atmosphere, tantahzes the thirsty traveller with the
appearance of water, but he finds himself mocked, and that the
appearance is all, and that no water is to be felt or tasted.
Not a drop to cool his tongue, or to quench his burning thirst
is to be found, although to his eye, the coveted beverage, like a
flowing flood, or running river, seemed almost within his reach.
Thus the universality of deception, is very surprising indeed.
What we find so abundantly displayed in minerals, vegetables,
animals, and aerials, we shall most assuredly find in the bodies,
souls, and minds of men.
There is a propensity in many people to refer their diseases
and disasters to the wrong source—to the neghgence, or malice,
or avarice, or ambition, of some individual, who is entirely uncon-
scious of harm. The politician, and soldier, refer their maladies
to what they did and suffered for the cause of the people—the
student, to his intense study—the valetudinarian, to the ignorance
or quackery of his medical man, or to the mistakes of his nurse.
The man of business accuses the captain of the steam boat, or
the conductor on the rail-road, of delay, or precipitation or mis-
management.
The lady-patient, in one chamber, had the foundation of her
illness laid, whilst a girl at a boarding school, by food too scanty
21*
242 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
or bad, or both together. In the next chamber is another ladj,
ill from having stopped at the wrong inn, where was a poor fire,
bad tea, and damp sheets.
The man in one ward of the hospital imputes his lameness to
his master, whilst he was an apprentice, overloading him. In
another ward is a coachman, who sat so long in the cold, whilst
his mistress was making calls, that his feet were frozen. In a
third ward is a boy with an aneurism, which he imputes to a
blow from another boy.
In that house lives a lady who is nervous, and has every kind of
bad health, caused, as she supposes, by her very hypochondrical
father, enjoining upon her to sit by his bed-side, when she was a
girl, and hold his two hands betwixt hers.* If through extreme
fatigue and monotony she loosened her hold, her father would
immediately cry out, " Lizzy, you dont hold my hands." His
fits of low spirits occurred in the winter, when cold was added to
the fatigue of her sitting for hours, in one position, at the bed-side
of her father.
Thus the disorders of all the sick, are referred to accidental
causes, and no one is ill from the fragility of his frame, the fiat of
fate, or constitutional decay or decline. All have, at least just
now, a bad cold, caught whilst visiting a sick neighbor, or from
having been exposed in performing some official duty.
This kind of erroneous principle, when fostered by parents, and
friends, and nurses, and as in the Salem hysterical girls, by min-
isters, and officers, and courts, goes far, in our minds, towards
developing the mysterious mania, which led to the horrors of what
is called the Salem witchcraft.
We are by no means certain that similar scenes might not be
conjured up in our day, were there a sufficient number of unprin-
cipled abettors to begin the business, and were our ministers, and
deacons, and judges, and the community, possessed with the same
erroneous feelings, and disposed to let them go into action. Hap-
pily, this is not the case.
* This case is founded on fact; both the father and daughter were patients
of the present writer. She was his favorite child. The man was Lieut.
Governor of the state in which he lived.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 243
§ 22. The magical practices of our Indian aborigines, appear
to have been rather of a harmless kind, and were sometimes con-
nected with their religion, sometimes wi^h their medicine, and
sometimes with their politics, and at others with their amusements
and dances.
Lieut. Pike, of the XJ. S. army, afterwards General Pike, relates
his having been present at one of their religious, or medicinal
dances, composed of both sexes, all dressed in their gayest attire,
every dancer holding a small skin of some animal in his or her
hand. This skin appeared to be the wand of their magic. They
ran up to each other with these skins, one would point his skin
at another, and puff with his breath. The one thus blown upon,
of which ever sex, would instantly fall and appear almost lifeless,
or in great agony, and after a slow recovery, join in the dance.
But these blowers, who have the pretended power of blowing
others down, are of a particular class of initiated persons, and the
secret costs them forty or fifty dollars, besides giving the society
a feast.
Mr. Frazer, who was with Lieut. Pike, on the upper Mississip-
pi, was in one of the Indian lodges, when one of these blowers
came in. The young men immediately threw their blankets over
him and forced him out. Upon their seeing Mr. Frazer laugh at
244 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
them, they called him a fool, and told him he did not know what
the dancer could blow into his body.*
It appears by the account of a missionary to the North West
coast, that the Indians there held to something like the metemp-
sychosis of the Greeks. Le Koote^ the Chief of the Turn Garse,
told him, that of those who died, some were not well received
above, and were in consequence but sparingly supplied with tood
and drink. These, he added, came back, and assumed another
body. He gave an instance of this kind. It was of a certain
chief who was killed on board of an American ship. After his
death, he appeared to his wife and told her that he was the iden-
tical child which was about to be born of her ; and that after the
child's birth, the scars of the wounded chief, were found on th.e
infant. It would appear by the story that the child was' a male,
and the circumstance of the scars, was considered as a proof of
the truth of this doctrine. But we may remark, that there are
many infants born with marks upon them among us. These
marks are impute^to fright, or to some strong impression made
upon the mother's feelings or imagination. We well recollect a
certain young lady, who had what resembled a piece of the skin
of a nicely roasted pig upon her arm. Her mother attributed
this mark, or ncBvi materni, to her having been disappointed of a
certain piece of a roasted pig, at a wedding, whilst pregnant with
this daughter.
But medical histories abound with instances still more striking;
one of which is that of a woman in Holland, who attended the
execution of a criminal who was beheaded, when she was preg-
nant ; and who was in process of time delivered of a dead infant,
with the head entirely detached from the body.
Many years past we had a very respectable clergyman who
was for several years an inmate of our family, and who had five
fingers beside the thumb, on each hand ; and he had an only son
and child, whom we saw, who had the same peculiarity. The
clergyman also informed us, that his father had the same number
of fingers ; and that it was produced by his grandfather having
split his thumb into two parts accidentally with an axe, in sight
of his wife.
* Med. Rep. Hex. ii. Vol. iv. p. 378, 379.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 245
We think that instances of this kind are too well authenticated
to be denied, and that they sufficiently account for the fact related
by Le Koote, to the missionary.
In order to get at the true Indian character, we must consult
those travellers, or their works, who remarked upon it before they
had much connection with the whites.
Alexander Henry, Esq. travelled among the Canadian tribes
as early as from 1760 to 1776. He gives an account of one of
their juggling physicians, and his patient, who was a girl of about
twelve years of age, and who appeared to Mr. Henry, to have
had a fever, and to be in the last stage of consumption.
The Indian's mode of practice was that of sucking away the
disease through small hollow tubes, applied to her breast, or tho-
rax. His tubes appeared to be the wing bones of a swan. But
he accompanied his practice with a song and a rattle, and swal-
lowed the tubes himself, after the application of sucking was over.
Or at least two out of three of them were swallowed by himself.
The swallowing, or apparent swallowing of the tubes, put the
doctor into terrible agony, which he evidenced by throwing his
body about in horrid contortions. And the bringing them up was
equally distressing. Upon bringing up the second tube, which
appeared to have a small groove outside of it, a substance was
found by him which Mr. Henry says, resembled a small part of
the quill of a feather. This was handed about as a trophy, and
declared to be the cause of the girl's disease. His practice was
however, unsuccessful, for his patient died the next day.
Mr. Henry tells us, that their jouers, or jugglers, believe that
by drawing the figure of a person in sand, ashes, or clay, or by
considering a tree, stump, or hillock, as his substitute, that any
injury inflicted upon it, will be felt by the person himself, whose
figure the hillock or stump represents. This puts us in mind
again of the Salem witchcraft. Persons accused of being witch-
es, were complained of by their accusers, in court, of pinching
and pricking them there, when they were out of reach of each
other. And those sage Salem judges, had such persons' hands
tied, when the accusers declared themselves relieved of their tor-
ments ! This circumstance alone, is sufficient proof of the whole
being the work of imagination and mahce. The Indian man
246 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
and woman in the family of Mr. Parris, probably taught these
notions to his children. Mr. Henry tells us, that these Jouers are
supposed to be able to inflict death upon an absent person, by mu-
tilating his imagined image ; and he saw one of them ripped up
and killed by an Indian man, who accused him of having killed
his brother by his magic arts, exercised in this very way.
§ 23. Some persons, more competent to judge than ourselves,
have supposed a most striking similarity between the account
given by Mr. Henry, of the Indians at the Sault of St. Mary, con-
sulting the Great Turtle, and that of the ancient Greeks, con-
sulting their oracles. It took place in 1764.
That such coincidences should have existence in a matter of
such a strange, ambiguous, and eccentric character as the present,
is much more wonderful than that they should occur in the con-
struction of buildings, the systems of government, or the similar-
ity of ornaments and decorations.
Mr. Henry's account is to the following effect : for invoking
and consulting the Great Turtle, the first thing to be done was,
the erection of a large house or wigwam, of such dimensions as
to contain the whole tribe. Within this large structure was a
tent erected for the use of the priest, and the reception of the
spirit. This tent, its construction, and what took place within it,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 247
form the grand arcana of the whole performance. It was con-
structed with five poles, or rather pillars, of eight inches diameter,
and ten feet in height. These pillars were set about two feet into
the earth, into holes dug for the purpose, and then the earth
thrown out, put back around them. At the top, these pillars
were bound together with a circular hoop or girder. They were
set in a circular form, and at bottom inclosed a space of about
four feet in diameter. They were of wood, of five different spe-
cies, and covered over with skins of the moose, which were made
fast with thongs of the same. A part however, of one side, was
left unfastened, to admit of the entrance of the grand dramatisi,
the priest. The ceremonies did not commence but with the aj5-
proacli of night. To give light within the great wigwam, several
fires were kindled within it, around this tent. Nearly the whole
village assembled within the first inclosure, and Mr. Henry among
the rest. It was not long before the priest appeared. He had
very few clothes on, and was almost indeed in a state of nudity.
As he approached the tent the skins were lifted up, as much as
was necessary to allow of his creeping under them on his hands
and knees. His head was scarcely within side, when the edifice,
massy as it has been described, began to shake, and the skins
were no sooner let fall, than the sounds of numerous voices were
heard within, and beneath them. Some yelling, some barking
like dogs, some howling as wolves ; and in this horrible concert
were mingled screams and sobs, as of despair, anguish and the
sharpest pain. Articulate speech was also uttered, as if from hu-
man lips, but in a tongue unknown to any of the audience.
After some time, these confused and frightful noises, were suc-
ceeded by a perfect silence. And now a voice not before heard,
seemed to manifest the arrival of a new character in the tent.
This was a low and feeble voice, resembling the cry of a young
puppy. The sound was no sooner distinguished, than all the
Indians clapped their hands for joy, exclaiming that this was the
Chief Spirit, the Turtle, the spirit that never lied ! Other
voices, which they had discriminated from time to time previous-
ly, they had hissed, as recognizing them to belong to evil and
lying spirits, which deceive mankind. New sounds came afresh
248 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
from the tent. During the space of half an hour, a succession of
songs were heard, in which a diversity of voices met the ear.
From his first entrance, till these songs were finished, we heard
nothing in the proper voice of the priest, but he now addressed
the multitude, declaring the presence of the Great Turtle, and
the spirit's readiness to answer such questions as should be pro-
posed. The questions were to come from the chief of the village,
who was silent however, till after he had put a large quantity of
tobacco into the tent, introducing it at the aperture. This was a
sacrifice off'ered to the spirit ; for spirits are supposed by the In-
dians to be as fond of tobacco as themselves. The tobacco ac-
cepted, he desired the priest to inquire, whether or not the Eng-
lish were preparing to make war upon the Indians ? and whether
or not there were at fort Niagara, a large number of English
troops ? These questions having been put by the priest, the tent
instantly shook ; and for some seconds after, it continued to rock
so violently, that Mr. Henry expected to see it levelled with the
ground. x4l11 this was a prelude, as he supposed, to answers to
be given. But a terrific cry, announced with sufficient intelligi-
bility, the departure of the Turtle. A quarter of an hour
elapsed in silence, and Mr. Henry waited impatiently to discover
vhat was to be the next incident in this scene of imposture. It
consisted in the return of the spirit, whose voice was heard again,
and who was now delivering a continued speech. But the lan-
guage of the Great Turtle now, like that which had been heard
before, was wholly unintelhgible to every ear, that of the priest
excepted. And it was not, therefore, till the latter gave an inter-
pretation, that the audience learned the purport of this extraordi-
nary communication ; which did not commence before the spirit
had finished.
They were then informed by the priest, that the spirit, during
this short absence, had crossed lake Huron, and even proceeded
as far as fort Niagara, which is at the head of lake Ontario, and
thence to Montreal ; a distance, this, of more than a thousand
miles out, making more than two thousand miles, going and re^
turning, all in fifteen minutes.
At fort Niagara, he had seen no great number of soldiers ; but
on descending the Saint Lawrence, as low as Montreal, he had
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 249
found the river covered with boats, and the boats filled with sol-
diers, in number like the leaves upon the trees. He had met them
on the river, coming to make war upon the Indians.
The chief had a third question to propose, and the spirit, with-
out a fresh journey to fort Niagara, was able to give an instant
and favorable answer. *'
If," said the chief, " the Indians visit
Sir William Johnson, will they be received as friends."
" Sir William Johnson," said the spirit, (and after the spirit the
priest,) " Sir William Johnson, will fill their canoes with presents,
with blankets, kettles, guns, gun-powder and shot, and large bar-
rels of rum, such as the stoutest Indians will not be able to lift
;
and every man will return in safety to his family.
At this the transport and clapping of hands were universaL
The questions of public interest having been resolved, individu-
als were permitted to inquire into the condition of their absent
friends, and the fate of such as were sick. Mr. Henry, among
the rest, made an ofiering of tobacco, and inquired whether he
should ever revisit his native country. His question being put,
the tent shook as usual, after which he received answer, that he
should take courage, and fear no danger, for that nothing would
happen to hurt him, and that in the end he should reach his
friends and country in safety. These assurances wrought so
strongly upon his gratitude, that he presented an additional and
extra offering of tobacco.
These consultations of the priest and spirit, continued till near
midnight, when all the crowd dispersed to their respective lodges.
Mr, Henry tells us that he was on the watch through the scene,
to detect the particular contrivances by which the fraud was car-
ried on ; but although he appears to have been a very intelligent
and penetrating man, and is certainly a very good writer, yet he
says that he came away as he went.
The shaking of the tent, when it is considered that it was con-
structed of such massy materials, was not the least extraordinary
part of the performance ; and it was one that it does not appear
that any legerdemain was possible to produce. The number and
variety of voices, form another mysterious feature.
Capt. Carver witnessed in another tribe, a similar and equally
unaccountable display, as did M. de Champlain, as long ago as
22
250 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
1609, who supposes that the joueur or priest shook the tent him-
self. But this seems impossible, unless he was a Sampson of a
fellow. Besides, it does not account for the concert of discord-
ant and simultaneous voices, when no one was seen to enter the
tent except a single priest.
We strongly suspect that there was more art and labor, in pre-
paring this tent than travellers and the uninitiated were suffered to
see ; and that there was a subterranean cell below, and a subter-
ranean passage to it, in which other joueurs were concealed.
§ 24. Mysteries, when once found out, are mysteries no
longer ; and all surprise ceases, except at their simplicity. We
are apt to imagine, that had we been present ourselves, that our
senses would have been more acute, and that we might have detect-
ed this Indian imposture, but do we not see performances equal-
ly inexplicable, by mountebanks in all our principal cities 1 The
Hon. Mr. B. an eminent attorney, and afterwards a Senator in the
U. S. Congress, gave an account to a company, of which the
present writer was one, of some of the legerdemain of Seignior
Falconi., an Italian performer, which he witnessed, and which
excited much surprise ; and although Mr. B. was a man of very
superior talents, he was unable to unravel the mysteries which he
saw.
Among other things Falconi told his audience to propose to
him any question they pleased. One of them asked what was
the difference between lightning and electricity 1 He instantly
threw down a candle on to the table, and told the querist, or any
one else, to cut it open and he would find an answer. The can-
dle was cut open to the wick, which was found to be a piece of
paper rolled up, and upon which was written, '• the one is natural,
and the other artificial."
He gave another instance. The actor requested the gentlemen
present to lend him their watches. They did so. These he put
into a bag, or it so appeared. He then laid the bag on a table
and told them, or any one of them, to take a whip and whip the
bag as much and as long as they pleased. This was also done.
He then poured forth the contents of broken crystals, broken
dials, and broken wheels, and the whole machinery, in complete
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 251
rupture and ruin. Something must be done, he then said, for
these gentlemen who have delivered me their watches. We must
do our best to make good their losses. The fragments were then
returned into the bag. Some manoeuvering then took place, such
as concentrating the fragments into one end of the bag, and rub-
bing it with his hands. The contents were then carefully emptied
out on to the table. The watches appeared as they were when he
received them, and he handed them to their respective owners.
A lady, Mrs. C. when a girl, was present at one of his exhibi-
tions, and gave us the following account of one of his sleights.
He requested any lady present to hand him her ring. One was
handed him. He gave one of his auditors this ring, or so it ap-
peared ; told him to charge the pistol with powder, and put the
ring in place of a ball, and then fire it out of the window. All
this was done. He then expressed great anxiety for the recovery
of the ring ; and looking round he pointed out a young lady, of
one of the first families, and said that the ring might be found in
her slipper. She in much astonishment and perturbation, replied
in a tremulous voice. Oh ! no—it is not in my slipper. Please
Miss, said he, be so kind as to slip your slipper from your foot
;
she did so, and behold there was the ring.
We at first conjectured that the young lady was in concert with
the actor ; but this was not the case. Still, some other lady who
sat near her might have been, and who probably slipped the ring,
unknown to its wearer, into her shoe. It must have been another
ring that was put into the pistol.*
In the case given respecting the watches, the juggler's bag must
have been double, and the part of it into which the watches were
put made of some material so firm as to bear the strokes of the
whip without injury to the contents. The broken matters poured
out must have been the fragments of other watches fitted for the
purpose.
The Hon. Mr. B. observed that nothing was ever detected of
Falconi's tricks, except that he made use of very strong magnets,
and that one of the watthes was injured in that way.
* It might have been a double barrelled pistol, and the ring put into the bar-
rel which was not fired off.
252 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
We are not sufficiently adept in legerdemain to venture many
surmises of our own.
A certain German prince was so utterly confounded at the
pranks of a performer, that he sent for him to his palace, and
bargained with him for a large sum of money, to unfold to him
his many mysteries. He found them when once explained, easy
of comprehension, and entirely reconcileable with natural and
known principles.
§ 25. Gen. Hamilton, was in his day, once travelling in the
interior of New York, and putting up at a village for the night, he
was informed by his landlord that there was to be a sleight of
hand exhibition that evening, by an itinerant. This the general
for want of better entertainment, saw fit to attend. The actor
had not commenced when he entered, and closely inspecting a
countenance of superior intelligence, made bold to approach the
general with a dollar in his hand, which he asked him to be so
good as to hold during his performance.
Gen. Hamilton took the money, and held it as desired, but not
without some suspicion that it might have some connection with
some part of the actor's legerdemain, or that some attempt might
be made to abstract it froip him without his knowledge. Nothmg
of the kind however happened, and after all was over, the show-
man came to him and received back the deposit, thanking him for
the trouble he had given him, telling him at the same time, that
his only motive was to divert his attention from too close an in-
spection of what was transacting before him ; and intimating
that although his performances might pass very well with the
multitude, yet that he was not quite certain, that a man of his
physiognomy, might not discover more than he wished to have
known.
A counterpart to this anecdote, occurs in relation to Sir Dugald
Stewart. It may also throw some light upon the story of the
ring bemg found in the young lady's shoe. Sir Dugald, who was
present at some legerdemain exhibition, had a shilling piece
handed him which he was requested to keep ; he however handed
it to his next neighbor. During the play, a similar piece was
handed around to the audience, for their inspection. Afterwards
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 253
it was loaded into a pistol and fired out at a window. The jug-
gler then said that the piece might be found in that gentleman's
side pocket, pointing to Sir Dugald. Perhaps, replied Mr. Stew-
art, if it is not found on me, it may be found on my next neighbor,
who forthwith exhibited the piece.
It is thus that pranks so seemingly profound, vanish into thin
air, as soon as they are once detected ; and justify the remark of
Cato, that it is wonderful how one soothsayer could look another
in the face without a burst of laughter.
§ 26. The effects of imagination are immensely diversified,
and sometimes so strong as to confound falsehood with truth, and
disease with health. Things imagined to be true, are told for
truths, when void of all foundation ; and yet such imaginative
persons, do not know that they are uttering falsehoods. What
they imagine^ they cannot discriminate from what they see, and
consequently they pass for persons of no veracity. Such persons
are, however, commonly good natured. If society sometimes
suffers from their tergiversations, they themselves are exempts.
Very different is the condition of those who have fancied diseas-
es. They are greater sufferers than those who have real ones.
This is proved, as Dr. Rush observes, by the most painful mala-
dies being borne, such as gout and stone, without their ever driving
the sufferer to commit suicide ; whereas, this is committed, and
not unfrequently, by those who labor under hypochondriac and
other nervous diseases.
Many years ago, Elisha Barns, of Bucks county, Pennsylva-
nia, was in time of wheat harvest reaping wheat, with his son, a
stripling, and his hired men. In the course of the day they killed
a rattlesnake. The father and son had outside jackets of the
same kind of cloth, which they had thrown off in the heat of the
day. At night the father in attempting to put on his outside gar-
ment, as he supposed, found it much too small. He looked and
found the color right, and was much astonished at his increase of
bulk. Immediately, he supposed that he had been imperceptibly
bitten by the rattlesnake, and had swollen from the effect of the
poison. He became very ill, and was about to send for a physi-
cian, when his son came in with the old gentleman's coat, dang-
22*
254 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
ling like a bag about him, when poor Elisha Barns was well in
an instant.
We had a patient, Col. G. a man of superior natural abilities,,
who was a victim to all kinds of imaginary maladies. It was
even dangerous for his physician to detail the symptoms of dis-
eases, for his patient would surely have the whole of them. At
one of our visits, he told us that his disorder was an ulcer on his
kidneys, although he had no symptom indicating any such affec-
tion. We told him that he had had no sickness al stomach,
which was one of the symptoms of an affection of the kidneys.
He soon, in consequence of this information, began to retch, as
though he had taken tartar emetic. Nothing more of this kind
ever occurred. At the next visit, we found the Colonel sitting
with his feet in a chair, covered with flannel. What is the matter
now. Colonel, was our inquiry. Doctor, said he, I have got the
gout. How can that be, have you had any pain in your feet, your
ancles, or great toe ? No, he replied, but I do not doubt but that
I shall have. Nothing more was heard of the gout after that day.
But the very next conceit, would be as firmly rooted in his mind,
as though his fancy had never erred. It was only by a course of
steel, and other strengthening remedies, that his nerves gained
their wonted vigor, and then his mind responded, and lost its
troublesome vagaries.
The Hon. G. H. Esq. then mayor of the city in which he hved,
walked out into the street, one morning in the month of March,
dressed as usual at that period, with small clothes reaching no
further than the knee. He had on two pair of stockings, as was
his custom. Feeling an unusual coldness in one of his legs, he
cast down his eye, and lo, and alas, he beheld one leg smaller
than the other ! He hastened into the house, told his wife that
one of his legs was perishing, that it was cold and fallen away,
desiring her to send for Dr. S. immediately. She however, sent
for Capt. C, a friend and near neighbor, who came in directly.
The story was repeated with much agitation. Friend H. said
Capt. C. pull down your stockings, let us see both legs together,
and then we can judge better. Mr. H. comphed, when all the
terror ceased at once, he had drawn three stockings on to one leg.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 255
and left the cold and shrunk limb with only one. No physician
was needed for curing so plain a domestic case.
A case of a young farmer, mentioned by Dr. Darwin, had a
more tragic issue. He found his hedge fence nightly diminishing,
and unable to detect the depredator, determined one night to
watch the premises himself. In the dead of night, he perceived
a poor old withered woman making up a bundle of faggots from
his fence. He let her proceed till she had shouldered her load,
when he rushed from his concealment, and deprived her of her
booty, with bitter reproaches. In a moment of horror, she fell
on her knees, not to pray to him, but to heaven, that he might
never, so long as he lived, be warm again. Such a request, from
such a miserable looking supplicant, in the dead of night, and ut-
tered with much fervency, struck him to the quick. He felt cold,
and returned home shivering. He increased his bed-clothes by
night, and his body clothes by day, but fancied himself forever
cold, and neither apparel, nor wine, nor medicine, ever made him
warm. He even had a seive put over his face when he was in
bed, and increased his fires. It was all in vain. He declared
that never had he felt warm since the fatal orison of the old wo-
man. His chills finally ended in the chill of death. He fell a
sad victim to the chills of his imagination, and ended his days by
the effects of an irrepressible hallucination.
The same author mentions the case of a clergyman, of rather
a weak mind, who was drinking with some lively companions,
when with his wine he swallowed a part of a wafer. One of the
company humorously remarked, that it would seal up his bowels.
The clergyman felt the force of the remark, and his imagination
did the rest. He became indisposed, and although the medicines
given him, had the same operative effect as his attendants desired,
still his fancy could never be relieved. He could not be made to
realize, or believe, what his own eyes witnessed. His bowels
were relieved, but his fancy was not. He pined and died, ever
asserting that nothing had passed them since he swallowed the
wafer.
Had the Salem judges known a few such well authenticated
facts, it seems hardly possible that the pages of New England
256 '
THE TONGUE OF TIME.
history should ever have been darkened by such scenes as the Sa-
lem witchcraft.
As education becomes more diffused, and the sciences more
profoundly understood, the mind of man acquires expansion.
The palace, the play-house, the parlor, the hut and the hovel,
feel the influence of Newton and Kepler, and Copernicus, though
all theii* inmates may have never heard of even their names.
Eclipses were once thought to have proceeded from miraculous
or magical power.
§ 27. Sidereal, or planetary influence over men, diseases,
and cattle, and trees, once held unbounded belief. This is not of
Saxon origin, but is derived from the native Britons and Italians.
The Druids of Gaul, and of Britain, held both the professions of
physic and priestcraft conjoined. One of their rules was, to cut
the misletoe with a golden knife, but only when the mooji was six
days old. It then underwent the formality of consecration, when
it was considered as an antidote for poisons, and a preventive of
sterility.
The Vervain, (verbena officinalis,) after libations of honey, was
to be gathered at the rising of the dog-star, but with the left hand
only, and when neither the sun nor the moon shone. It then be-
came the vanquisher of fevers, an antidote to the bite of serpents,
and a chain to fasten friendship.*
Sir Theodore Mayerne, the Doctor Caius, of Shakspeare, was
physician to three English Sovereigns ;
yet some of his remedies
betray superstition in a most disgusting form. One was, the
bowels of a mole, cut out whilst the creature was alive. Another
was mummy^ made of the lungs of a man who had been executed,
or otherwise died a violent death.
In this class of great vulgar, must be placed also Sir Kenelm
Digby, Knight of Montpellier. He pretended to have a sympa-
thetic powder, which came from Persia, or sometimes from
America. This powder Avas to be applied to any tool with which
a person was wounded, such as an axe, an adze, or chissel ; after
this, the edge of it was to be covered over with ointment, and
* i^ee Pliny Lib. xvi. c, 44—and Lib. xxv. c. 9. Also Dr. Paris' Phar. v. 1.
27, 28 pages.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 257
dressed two or three times a day. Had the knight suffered his
treatment to rest alone in putting powders and ointments on axes
and adzes, we might have supposed that he had some confidence
in it himself; but he was careful not to do this, but to make suit-
able applications to the wound itself; although he gave the credit
of his cures, to the instrument having been under treatment, vrhich
caused the injury. Such wonderful effects have secrecy and
mystery, that even crowned heads were turned about to view"
these extraordinary cures of Sir Kenelm Digby. He delivered
a discourse upon them himself before an assembly of notables
and nobles in France. King James I. at length prevailed on him
to divulge his mighty mystery to him. It proved to be nothing
more than burnt copperas, (Calcined Sulphate of Iron.)* It
was found to be concealment that caused all the wonders of the
witchery.
Once known and all its virtues fled,
Though it before had raised the dead.
§ 28. We are not so much surprised when strange things are
heard of at a great distance, and among a pagan people. But
we like to trace the turnings and windings of human nature into
all its recesses.
When we find Asia respond to Europe, and Europe to Asia, we
become more certified of the common origin of man.
Every one knows that the ancient Greeks and Romans had
gods for every tiling. And at this time this appears to be the
case in some parts of India.
A communication from Mr. Dubois, a missionary to the Eng-
lish National vaccine establishment, is a curious proof of this ;
and at the same time, displays as curious a proof of national
superstition. The matter in view, related to the introduction of
the cow-pox, which they opposed upon the ground that one of
their goddesses, called Mah-ry Umma, became incarnate in small-
pox. She was a terrible deity, entering into the infected, and
causing head ache, back ache, cold chills, and fever ; and finally
breaking forth upon the skin in little angry suppurating boils,
called small-pox. But although she saw fit thus to afflict them,
* Vide Paris' Pharmacology.
258 . THE TONGUE OF TIME.
they believed that she might render them still greater evils if they
offended her. They therefore refused to substitute her rival in
her room, for fear of her anger !
No reasoning could overcome their prejudices. They feared
her goddesship for themselves, and for the whole nation. Their
scruples were finally overcome, by raising up a new superstition
in room of the old one. They were therefore told, that the god-
dess had chosen of late, to exhibit herself in a more mild and
placable form ; and that they might still adore her in her new
shape, and praise her for her benevolence, because her substance
was the same as it ever was.
It was thus that the great blessing of vaccination was intro-
duced into India.
§ 29. The story of Dr. Faustus, and the devil, had its origin
from John Faust, the first printer of books. He was a German,
and kept his art a secret. The books being printed in imitation
of manuscript, were at first supposed to have been written with a
pen. At that time Bibles were charged at five hundred crowns,
by the scribes of Paris, apiece. Thither Faust went and sold his
for sixty crowns. The uniformity of his printed writing, and the
low price of the volume, excited the amazement of the Parisians.
But when he reduced the price to thirty crowns, and besides fur-
nished copies as fast as they were wanted, all Paris was in a state
of agitation. He was informed against at the police as a magi-
cian. His apartments were searched and a great number of
copies discovered.
Part of the printing was done in red. This passed for his
blood ; and blood and witchcraft having a supposed mystical con-
nection, he was deemed by the award of the magistrates to be
leagued with the devil. He was obliged to fly, or he might have
shared the fate of other sorcerers, witches, and wizards of the
times—that is, have been burnt.
Such is a concise history of the first printed copies of the Bible
in the world.
The wonder subsided when the types were discovered. , Al-
though, those with which Faust first printed the Bible, were of
wood, and not like those of later times, moveable.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 259
The interesting and sacred volume was multiplied, till every
body possessed a Bible. After which, a new superstition arose.
It was that of opening the book at hazard, and the person's for-
tune, fate, or present object of inquiry, was supposed to depend,
or to be indicated, by the first passage upon which he cast his eye.
This was an early mode of appealing to the Bible. So far was this
custom carried, and so mischievous were its effects, that ecclesi-
astical history informs us that it was prohibited by law.
The Bible was not, however, the only book that was thus con-
sulted. Virgil was opened at random for the same purpose, of
which the great Dr. Johnson gives us some account, in his Lives
of the Poets. In his life of Cowley, who was secretary to Lord
Jermyn, and the latter Ambassador from England to France, a
treaty with the Scotch was negotiating, for the success of which
Cowley was much interested. In a letter to a friend he gives his
reasons for expecting a favorable issue to this treaty. And to add
weight to his opinion, he writes to him as follows, by which it ap-
pears that he had been consulting the Virgilian lots, that is, open-
ing Virgil :
" And to tell you the truth, (which I take to be an
argument above all the rest,) Virgil has told the same thing to
that purpose."
This method of divination was used by King Charles L, and by
Lord Falkland, both of whom happened together in the Bodleian
library—or more probably went there for the express purpose of
consulting Virgil.
As a matter of coincident curiosity, when it is considered that
Charles was beheaded by his subjects, and that Lord Falkland,
his secretary, was killed, fighting for his king, we notice this royal
piece of superstition, and its striking results. The passage upon
which the royal eye of Charles fell, is as follows
:
" Yet let a race untam'd, and haughty foes,
His peaceful entrance with dire arms oppose,
Oppressed with numbers in th' unequal field,
His men discourag'd and himself expell'd
;
Let him for succour sue from place to place,
Torn from his subjects and his son's embrace.
260 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
First let him see his friends in battle slain,
And their untimely fate lament in vain:
And when at length, the cruel wars shall cease,
On hard conditions may he buy his peace ;
Nor let him then enjoy supreme command.
But fall untimely by some hostile hand.
And lie unburied on the barren sand.*
It is presumed that there is not in Virgil, or any other book,
a passage more appropriate to the final fate of that monarch, than
the one to which chance directed his eye. He did not he unburi-
ed, but he fled from place to place for succour. His armies were
defeated, he was separated frorii his son, afterwards Charles H.,
and from his Queen, and finally beheaded by the sentence of
Cromwell.
Lord Falkland's eye met the following lines.
" O Pallas, thou hast fail'd thy plighted word,
To fight with caution, not to tempt the sword ;
I warn'd thee, but'in vain, for well I knew
What perils youthful ardor would pursue
;
That boiling blood would carry thee too far.
Young as thou wert to dangers, raw to war.
O curst essay of arms, disastrous doom.
Prelude of bloody fields, and fights to come !
Hard elementi^of unauspicious war,
Vain vows to heaven, and unavailing care ! t
Lord Falkland was the most learned man of his age. He was
killed at the early age of thirty-four, at the battle of Newbury.
Charles survived his secretary eight years, being beheaded in 1649.
Chance, in these two instances, paid tribute to superstition.
But there is no record of the ten thousand instances of the failures
which occurred in consulting Virgil. And it is by generals, and
not hjparticulars, that wise men form their opinions.
We cannot be censured for using the word chance, because we
have the very highest authority for it in the parable of the good
Samaritan.
* JEniad Lib. IV, 615, Dryden's translation.
t ^niad Lib. XL 152, Dryden's translation.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 261
We have often been surprised at the downright contradictions
of Christian writers of some parts of the Bible. And it occurs so
frequently, either directly or indirectly, that we hardly read or
hear a sermon without some degree of perturbation at witnessing
it. We here particularly have in view, the flat denial of some,
who say that there is no such thing as chance^ when Jesus Christ
says that there was.
23
CHAPTER V.
OF BURYING, EMBALMING, AND BURNING THB DEAD. OF VISIONS,
VOICES, AND SUPERNATURAL IMPRESSIONS. CROMWELL. LORD
HERBERT. PAUSANIAS. ANAXAGORAS, ROSCOMMON. A PREMO-
NITION DEFEATED. PREDICTION OF SNOW IN JUNE, FULFILLED.
THE INDIAN AND HIS TAMED SNAKE.
§ 1. The burial of the dead was a reUgioiis duty among the
ancient Greeks. And indeed throughout the heathen world, the
embalming, burial or burning, of deceased persons, was a matter
of great importance.
Nicias, an Athenian general, and a pious pagan, chose rather
to lose the honors of victory, than not to reclaim the bodies of his
soldiers slain.
The ghost of an unburied person was not allowed to pass the
river Styx.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 263
Six Athenian generals were put to death as criminals, for not
interring the bodies of the soldiers slain in the battle of Argi-
nusaj.* It was the opinion of the ancients, that the ghosts of
drowned persons were doomed to wander about for a hundred
years, before they found a resting place. And the cause assign-
ed was, that the rites of sepulture had not been bestowed upon
their bodies. This notion is alluded to in Shakspeare.
Puck. My fairy lord, this must be done in haste
;
For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast.
And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger ;
At whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there,
Troop home to church-yards ; damned spirits all.
That in cross ways and floods have burial,
Already to their wormy beds are gone, t
This care for the bodies of the dead was founded on an opinion
which is connected with, and affords a reason why, the Egyptians
embalmed their deceased friends. They held the opinion, that
the soul was dependant for its preservation upon that of the body.
In one sense, therefore, they held to the soul's immortality ; but
that it had no separate existence from the body. That it would
be renew^ed, and raised, and resuscitated, when the body was, was
their firm opinion. But that if the body was lost, or suffered de-
cay, that the soul would be lost, or suffer decay along with it, they
firmly believed.
That some of the Jews held to a similar doctrine, would ap-
pear to be true, when their notion respecting the luz is considered.^
The Greeks derived it from the Egyptians. And Job, after some
variation in his ideas and expressions upon the subject, finally
places future knowledge, consciousness, and existence, upon the
resurrection of the body.
The Grecian fable of Charon and his boat, ferrying the dead
over the river Styx, was derived from the Egyptians. His fee was
an obolus, about two cents, placed under the tongue of the deceas-
* Vide Plutarch. Life of Nicias.
t Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 3, Scene 2.
% The luz was the bone of immortality—a part that did not die in the grave,
nor before burial—the seed of resurrection.
264 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
ed. Such as had not been honored with a funeral were not suf-
fered to enter the boat for the space of one hundred years,
during which time they were condemned to wander on the shore.
Charon is represented as an old man, of robust form, piercing
eyes, long white beard, and hideous countenance.
There are many notions probably common to all nations.
Others appear to be derived from tradition, and some from the
Bible, even where it is unknown. We should have been surprised
yesterday, had any one informed us, that there was in the Bible,
any hint of the custom of our Indians, burying with their dead
the arms and ornaments of their deceased warriors, to be found
in it. But to day we were convinced that we did not know all
its contents, as we read the following verse :
*' And they shall not
lie with the mighty that are fallen of the uncircumcised, which
are gone down to hell with their weapons of war ; and they have
laid their swords under their heads ; but their iniquities shall be
upon their bones, though they were the terror of the mighty in the
land of the living."
It seems that an uncircumcised race, and a barbarous custom,
are here pointed at, not for imitation, but for derogation. Going
down to hell with their weapons of war, and having swords laid
under their heads, mean no more than our Indian customs present
to view now.
§ 2. As are the times, so are the treasons. As are the de-
terminations, so are the pretended revelations. Any one bent
upon violent measures, if he has visions, or hears voices, they are
in aid of his purpose. Even when sanctity is made the cloak for
enormities, its ardor increases in proportion to the violence in-
tended.
When the execution of King Charles I. was under discussion
in Parliament, Cromwell said, that should any one have volunta-
rily proprosed to bring the King to punishment, that he should
have regarded him as a traitor. But as affairs were then circum-
stanced, that he should pray to God for a blessing on their coun-
sels. He added, that when he himself was lately offering up
petitions for his majesty's restoration, that he felt his tongue cleave
to the roof of his mouth ; and that he considered that supernatu-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 265
ral movement, as an answer from heaven of its having rejected
the King.
We regard Cromwell as the high-priest of all hypocrites ; and
as having infused into his followers, both male and female, some-
thing of his own deceitful spirit.*
A woman, at the same period, desired admission to the military
council ; she having been illuminated by visions of a prophetical
nature, which gave the joyful tidings that their proposed measures
of violence and bloodshed were sanctioned from on high.
When it is considered that any one, however unprincipled,
may assert that he has had a vision, a voice, or a supernatural
impression, such assertions ought ever to be viewed with suspi-
cion, or scepticism. When we hear of any thing of the kind, we
ought to call to mind the case of Lord Herbert, of Cherbury.
This elegant and polished infidel had the daring idea, of having
heaven on his side ; and that the powers above should make
known to him their approbation of his deistical principles. He
therefore supplicated a special manifestation to be affordexl him.
And if his lordship is to be believed, he had it. He had, as is
asserted by himself, an answer from on high, which could not
have been uttered by any human agent, and which was distinctly
heard in the air, in confirmation of his opinions, and the query
proposed
!
§ 3. The horrors of the imagination, are sometimes the pun-
ishment of enormities which evade or defy all other modes.
Pausanias, being at Byzantium, cast his eyes, on a beautiful
young lady, of a noble family, whose name was Cleonice. Her
parents, aware of the power of the Spartan general, dared not to
deny his request, of having the young virgin, their daughter, for
a mistress. The only terms on her part, were, that the lights in
the room should be extinguished. This being complied with, she
was under the cruel necessity of entering his apartment after he
* Cromwell is thus described by his confidential physician, George Bate :
—
" A perfect master of all the arts of simulation, and dissimulation ; who, turn-
ing up the whites of his eyes, and seeking the Lord with pious gestures, will
weep and pray, and cant most devoutly, till an opportunity offers of dealing
his dupe a knock-down blow under the short ribs." See Lacon, p. 43.
23*
266 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
had retired to rest. It happened that she, in approaching his bed,
stumbled on a candlestick. The noise awakened Pausanias,
who had fallen asleep, and who did not, at the instant, recollect
the assignation. Apprehensive, like all other tyrants, of assasina-
tion, his dagger lay by his side. He caught it and plunged it into
her breast, and it reached her heart. Rest, quiet, and peace, de-
parted from that moment. Every night, the image of the young
woman haunted him ; and in a voice of menace, repeated this
verse
:
Go to the fate which pride and lust prepare.*
At Heraclea, was a temple where the shades of the dead were
consulted. Thither he resorted, and there Cleonice, as it is said
appeared, when Pausanias entreated her pardon. She told him
that soon after his return to Sparta, he would be delivered of
all his troubles.
His death was supposed to have thus been enigmatically fore^
told—which proved true ; for being accused of an attempt to be-
tray his country to the Pei-sians, he fled for refuge to the temple of
Minerva. This edifice the people walled up, surrounding the
^Plutarch, in the Life of Ciinon.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 267
whole building with stones, so that he could not get out ; and he
was there starved to death. His own mother laid the first stone.
But as to the necromancy, and the raising of Cleonice, it is
probable that the priest or priestess substituted some other young
woman in her place.
Jemima Wilkins once attempted to raise the dead. The daugh-
ter of one of her followers having died, she endeavored to palm
upon the gazing multitude another young woman, having some
resemblance to the deceased, and dressed like her.
It would appear that the art of ancient divination, was reduced
to certain rules, which even the priests themselves could only act
in conformity to, but could not vary their predictions so as to fit
all possible contingencies and catastrophes.
When Nicias, and Alcibiades, two Athenian generals, were
sent with a vast fleet against Sicily, it was foretold that they
should take all the Syracusans. It so happened that a vessel of
the enemy was captured by the Athenian fleet, having on board
the register or roll of the Syracusans. It contained, of conse-
quence, an immense number of the names of their enemies.
This very much disconcerted the diviners. They feared that the
prophecy that had been made, that they should take all the Syra-
cusans, was now accomplished, by this capture of all their names.
And such in the end proved to be the event. For instead of
taking all the Syracusans, Nicias lost an army of forty thousand
men, and his own life also.
Thus the predictions of the diviners ended in the capture of
the names of the citizens and soldiers, instead of their bodies !
Piety, principle, or superstition, sometimes led the pagans to
act up to the principles of true religion. But such instances took
place among the few of first rate talents, and highly endowed
minds. And that they were rare may be inferred from their hav-
ing been thought worthy of record. Nicias refused to suffer his
army to plunder the temple of Jupiter Olympias, when it was in
his power, because he deemed it to be a sacred place. And Julius
Caesar, being shewn a sword of his, which had been taken from
him, refused to take it, for the reason that it hung in a temple,
and had been dedicated to the gods. Sacrilege was considered a
crime of no ordinary magnitude.
268 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Those traces of piety and principle, remind us of the opinion
of Bishop Butler, in his Analogy between Religion, Natural and
Revealed.
§ 4. This pious but philosophic writer, expresses an opinion
that at first struck us with much surprise. It is, that Christianity
is " Natural Religiony Our first impressions were, that such a
view of Revelation, had a tendency to weaken its sanctity, and
to diminish its sublimity ; and to place it too much on a level with
the Koran, and other human systems ; for if the religion of the
gospel is but a natural religion, the query naturally arises, why
unassisted human nature might not have discovered itl We
cannot admit, therefore, that this analogy can be extended any
further than to the morality of religion, revealed and natural ;
and on the whole, we rather incline to the view taken by Hooker,
upon the subject—" that the reason why some of God's laws were
given, is neither opened nor possible to be gathered by the wit of
man." And to the same efi*ect. Bishop Horsley maintains that
there are certain points " upon which reason is dumb, and reve-
lation is explicit." Vol. J. Ser. 1.
We recognize the revealed doctrine of the agency of angels,
in the instance of Socrates, who asserted that he was attended,
aided and guided, by an invisible being, which kept him from the
commission of evil, and led him in the paths of duty. It is cred-
itable to human nature, and to natural religion, when we find a
pagan character so entirely unexceptionable as was his.
§ 5. Eclipses, especially of the moon, were a source of great
disquiet, and even of terror, to the Athenians, in the time of So-
crates, Alcibiades, and Nicias, who were cotemporaries. The
Athenians, at this period, about four hundred years before our
present era, disapproved of those philosophers, of whom Anaxa-
goras was one, who imputed to natural causes any unusual phe-
nomena in the heavens or earth. They thought the Divinity in-
jured, and his power and providence profaned, by ascribing them
to insensate, unintelligent causes, or to inevitable necessity.*
Protagoras, was obliged to fly his country for a system of this
* Plutarch.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 2GJ>
kind ; and Anaxagoras was thrown into prison, and with much
difficulty liberated by Pericles. Socrates, who was put to death,
lost his life in the opinion of Plutarch, for his philosophy ; but his
religion, as it appears, was one of his imputed crimes. Both
were too elevated for the times in which he lived. The account
given by himself is, that he was accused of the criminal curiosi-
ty of prying into the heavens, and into the abysses of the earth.
Natural philosophers were esteemed but a sorry set of beings, by
the community of his times. It was owing to Plato, that this
darkness and delusion was expelled from the world. He made it
appear that the Divine power was heightened, instead of being
degraded, by natural causes ; and that they operated in obedience
to his will.
Plutarch himself, had a correct idea of eclipses, referring those
of the moon to the earth's shadow. As every almanac foretels
them now, they have long lost their power of terrifying even the
superstitious ; but spots on the sun, not having yet been subjected
to mathematical calculation, have still a portentous appearance to
many eyes. Such spots were particularly noticed in 1816, both
here and in Europe. Here the summer was cold, and the harvest
scanty, frost occurring in New England every month in the year.
There, the season was irregular, and the spring succeeding was
noticed for the sudden melting of the snows upon the mountains
of Tyrol and Jura. Barometers were strangely irregular, and
the variations of the needle equally surprising. But the early
melting of the snows, was succeeded by the early appearance of
verdure and nightingales. It was at this period that news from
Italy for the first time since the world began, announced the ap-
pearance of tides in the Adriatic ! These facts as they relate to
Europe, were collected at Paris, in 1817 ; at which time northern
lights blazed over that metropolis for a whole fortnight together,
accompanied with peculiarities before unknown. After such a
variety of portents, had wars, famines and pestilence been preva-
lent, the banners of superstition might have flopped the skies*.
Happily, peace, plenty, and unusual prosperity succeeded. Su-
perstition gained just nothing at all, but sunk in reputation.
Of premonitions and predictions, if one happens to be justified
by the event, it is noised the world over ; but of their failures, in
ten thousand instances, we hear nothing.
270 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Dr. Johnson, the great moraUst and lexicographer, in his life of
Lord Roscommon, gives an instance of a prediction of his lord-
ship, when a boy of ten years old, which is sufficiently singular.
The lad was at Caen, in Normandy, his father at the same time
was in Ireland. He was usually rather a sober lad, but one day he
became very noisy and antic, playing, leaping, getting over ta-
bles, boards, &,c. &,c. In the midst of this extravagant mirth, he
suddenly stopped and cried out, Myfather is dead ! A fortnight
after, news arrived of his father's^deatli. This account was con-
firmed by the governor of the boy, and by Lord Roscommon
himself in more mature age.
An honorable member of Congress, whose family I was attend-
ing, received the news of the death of his brother, who lived at a
distance in another state. He assured me that the news was fully
expected, from his having heard some person in the night ride
briskly up to his house and stop, when no one came in, and as it
appeared, no person was there. He considered it as a warning,
or prelude to his receiving the intelligence that he did. He was a
gentleman of a nervous temperament, and subject to low spirits
;
his talents were of the first order, but his imagination unbounded.
He related to me that on one occasion, when going on to Con-
gress, that a number of the St. Domingo sufferers were on board
the same packet ; persons who had lost their houses, their friends
by murder, and their property by fire, and were driven from their
native soil by the negro insurrection there. Yet, he observed that
they were cheerful and talkative ; whilst he was so depressed in
spirits, at leaving his home, and parting with his friends and fam-
ily, that he could not say a word. It is thus that those who are
always imagining evil, (and strange indeed, would it be were it
otherwise,) may find a single instance in the course of their lives,
in which their imaginings prove true. But that these works of
imagination are not fixed by any irrevocable decree, a proof is
afforded by the next instance which we shall adduce.
A young man, member of college, received an impression, or
as he fancied, heard a voice, which told him he should die in three
days. It was as he was passing the stairs of the college building.
Towards the approaching end of the period, he fancied himself
so ill, that a physician was called, and made acquainted with the
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 271
particulars. He bled and blistered him, which did no good.
He grew worse, and the medical gentleman thought that he
should lose his patient. He changed his practice, and gave a
full dose of opium. This had the desired effect, of putting him
into a sound sleep, from which he did not awake till the three days
had expired. Immediately upon his awaking he inquired the
time of day. He found that the hmited period had passed and
that he was still alive. The hallucination vanished from that mo-
ment, and no more was heard of his illness or dying. As ima-
gination can kill as well as cure, little doubt was entertained that
he would have died had not this mode of treatment been adopted.
A Cambridge student coming into the room of one of his fel-
lows, observed a glass of wine standing on the table, which he
immediately drank. Presently the owner coming in, and missing
his liquor, observed that it was antimonial wine. The other be-
gan to retch, and soon after to vomit. Such was the power of
imagination, that it had all the powers of an emetic, for the wine
was not antimonial nor medicated.
§ 6. Second-sight, is the pretended faculty of seeing into fu-
turity, and of discovering what is going on in distant places. It
is claimed as an inherent gift by some of the Scotch Highlanders.
Sir Walter Scott seems to have had some confidence in this magic
art. But wise men have then* follies, and brave men their fears.
Dr. Beattie, an elegant writer on Moral Science, and a beauti-
ful poet, himself a Scotchman, said that those who pretend to it,
are of the lower class, ignorant and uninformed ; and that he did
not know the instance of a sensible well informed man, having a
case of the kind to relate.
In balancing accounts between these two great writers, let it be
considered, that if we admit the existence of such a faculty, that
all the instances given relate to matters of minor importance.
We have never heard of any great and important occurrence,
relating to nations, their warfare, revolutions, or changes of dy-
nasty, being predicted.
Now as we esteem the gift of prophecy upon a level with the
gift of miracles, and both as being derived from a high, and pure,
and infinite source, we are not ready to accede to its existence,
272 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
unless the object to which it points, in some measure corresponds
with the source from whence it is derived.
Inherent talents or tacts, are not to be put upon a level with
miraculous gifts. We admit, however, that it may be sometimes
difficult to distinguish them, for the reason that both may exceed
the limits of most minds. A person who could tell what the
square root of 106,929 was, sooner than a penman could write
down the figures, as Zerah Colburn did, is one of this description.
It is probable that the world itself never afforded a parallel in-
stance. The square which he gave, viz. 327, multiplied by itself,
proves the correctness of his answer. Yet he was but a youth,
and his education but indifferent. His mathematical acumen,
was the wonder of London, to which he was carried from Amer-
ica. A British peer wrote a volume, in which he endeavored to
unfold the rapid and mysterious movements which his mental
powers underwent, in producing such stupendous results.
There is nothing related of Nancy Hazard, Jane C. Rider, Mrs.
Cass, or Miss M'Evoy, more astonishing, or more surprising,
taking into view the rapidity of Zerah Colburn's results, common
minds and means.
§ 7. Almanac-makers, predict something of the weather with
much Mwcertainty, but which may prove strikingly correct ; but
that this part of their art, cannot be reduced to any regular sys-
tem, is evident from its rarity. One of the most singular instan-
ces which has come to our knowledge was a mere blunder. An
almanac-maker of the last century, by the name of Ames, an
ancestor of the celebrated statesman of Massachusetts, Fisher
Ames, had not quite fitted his almanac for the press, when busi-
ness called him from home, and he left the work to be finished by
his wife. The good woman found a blank sufficient for the word
:snow, opposite the 13th of June, which she filled with that chilly
word. Before Mr. Ames' return, his almanacs for the coming
year were in print, and some of them in circulation, and very
much to his chagrin, when he observed the prediction of his wife.
It so happened, however, that it did snow on the very day pre-
dicted, which gave immense celebrity to his future astronomical
productions*
THE TONGUE OF TISIE. 273
Some sage reviewers, have lately asserted that there is nothing
in this world but luck, good or bad. Others allow nothing to
luck or chance, but refer every thing to a particular predestina-
tion ; but this latter doctrine, which is held by many in the ab-
stract, we never knew admitted by a single person in the detail.
Wonderful recoveries from sickness, hair-breadth escapes from
accidents, plentiful harvests, great riches, bright talents, and suc-
cessful warfare, are referred to the special beneficence of provi-
dence ; but when laborers are indolent, servants dishonest, agents
treacherous, battles disastrous, and children thankless, and
friends traitorous, they never have the benefit of such reference.
All is then imputed to the incompetency, or turpitude of the
actors. We are inclined for ourselves, to think that the practical
decision is more correct than the theoretical one, and more con-
^sonant with the Bible.
The human mind when directed to a definite and particular
science, art or object, stands the greatest chance of success ; and
in minor affairs, such as the management of animals, in garden-
ing, the study of the instinct of bees, and even of reptiles, we
often witness what excites our admiration.
§ 8. An Indian had tamed a black snake, which he kept
about him during the summer months. In autumn he let the
creature go whither it chose to crawl, but told it to come to him
24
274 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
again upon a certain day, which he named, in the spring. A
white man who was present, and saw what was done, and heard
the Indian affirm that the serpent would return to him the very
day he had appointed, had no faith in the truth of his prediction.
The next spring, retaining the day in his memory, curiosity
led him to the place, where he found the Indian in waiting, and
after remaining with him about two hours, the serpent came
crawling back, and put himself under the care of his old master.
In this case, the Indian had probably observed that black
snakes usually return to their old haunts at the same vernal
season ; and as he had tamed, fed and kept this snake in a par-
ticular place, experience taught him that it would return on a
certain day.
The ferreting out of rogues is achieved by officers who have
studied into their vices and places of resort. High constable
Hays, of New York, has been conspicuously successful in this
branch of his official duties. In detecting and arresting Stevens,
Holdgate, and other extensive forgers of bank checks, how he
came by his knowledge was quite unaccountable ; and he refused
to reveal the mystery, when cross examined by the prisoner's
counsel. He probably disguised himself, found out their haunts,
and pretended to be one of their number, or this might have been
done by some one else in his employ.
A celebrated attorney in Connecticut, was employed in behalf
of a certain sailor, about to be tried for the murder of another
sailor. The principal witness was a third sailor. The attorney
found that his client must be convicted by the testimony of the
latter, unless some method could be devised to do it away. The
night before the trial was to come on, he dressed himself in a
sailor's habit, and went to the tavern where this witness, with
others of his fraternity were. Conversation ran upon the subject
of the approaching trial, and speculations as to the event. The
attorney pretended to be of a decided opinion that the accused
would be acquitted. This was strongly contested by the principal
witness, who said that he was guilty of the murder, and would be
found so ; and the dispute finally ended in a bet between him and
the attorney, and the money was staked, when the latter retired.
Next day, when the sailor was produced before the court to
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 275
testify, he was objected to as being interested in the event of the
suit, and there was ample proof present, of the bet. He was of
course rejected, and the prisoner acquitted.
§ 9. It was said by Malbranch, that our senses were not given
us to discover the essence of things, but to acquaint us with the
means of preserving our existence. But there have been persons
in the world, whose only errand in it seemed to be, to deal in
essentials, to develope mysteries, and to feed the curious with
curiosities, whilst others were destined to find the means of sus-
taining the lives of these inquirers.
It was a saying of Cato, that wise men learn more of fools,
than fools learn of the wise ; a truth that we every day see veri-
fied, for fools will follow no counsel nor example of the wise,
whilst the latter, from the follies or eccentricities of fools, may
sometimes be taught something of human nature which is amu-
sing and important.
It was the grand design of Mr. Locke, to point out what objects
our understandings were not fitted to deal with ; and it is equally
important to define what the human mind is capable of achieving,
as well as what it is not—to know what the bounds of human na-
ture are, and to ascertain the limits which it can reach, and
which it cannot transcend.
It has been laid down as a principle, that what a human mind
contemplates, a human agent can perform. But we deem this
view too limitless ; for the human mind can contemplate visiting
the moon, and of rolling the wheels of time backwards to the
antediluvian ages, and of living to the age of Methuselah, neither
which any human agent can achieve. But if a man thinks of
excavating a passage through the globe, and thus reaching his
antipodes, there is no known physical impossibility of its being
accomplished.
It has been truly said, that a man's mind is sometimes wont to
tell him more than seven watchmen.
The few truths best established, find opponents, and the most
veritable narrative has its sceptic. Incredulity is the wit, genius
and judgment of fools. And here perhaps, fools and some men
276 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
of great wisdom, approach each other nearer than upon any other
point whatever.
Buonaparte was incredulous as to the truth of history, and
more especially as to the history of the Saracens, and the won-
ders achieved by Mahomet.
The causes of the French revolution puzzled the greatest phi-
losophers, although its scenery passed before their eyes. The
secret springs, and murky movements of party, never can be
known ; since no party, nor indeed no mortal man, from Adam
to Talleyrand, could ever be made to confess the secrets of his
own soul, in full.
Let us inquire no further than America. The origin of her
inhabitants, and all their movements, are far better known than
those of any other nation in the known world, ancient or modern
;
and yet the historic page refers her revolution to a tax of half a
cent, (about one farthing,) upon the articles of tea and paper
;
neither of them articles of first rate necessity, nor the basis of our
revolution, although so imputed to be.
The secret springs of immense events are sometimes too fine
for mortal vision to discern ; as the source of all rivers is the fine
particles of moisture in the clouds.
Let the clouds cease to obscure the sky, and the rain cease to
fall from heaven to earth, and the rills, and brooks, and springs,
would dry up, and the Mississippi cease to flow.
That such immense consequences as a seven years war, and
the independence of the United States, arose from such slight
causes as a half cent tax upon non-essentials, will be a poUtical
and philosophical problem to posterity.
CHAPTER VI.
ENTHUSIASM. BUONAPARTE S RUSSIAN CAMPAIGN. ALEXANDER.
FRENCH AND AMERICAN REVOLUTIONS. ROGER WILLIAMS. WIL-
LIAM PENN. EDMUND BURKE. ROBERT MORRIS.
§ 1. Entlmsiasm and fanaticism are the allies of superstition.
They are contagious principles of the mind—wild thoughts, re-
duced to still wilder acts.
Mahometanism owes its rapid spread, the Saracenic empire its
speedy erection, to these stimulants of the mind.
Imperial Rome was founded upon this basis. JuHus Csesai*
laid the corner stone, and his name burnished the turret on the
cupola of the temple.
Men acting under these stimulants, are reduced to their element-
ary principles, and rush forward as do gales, hurricanes, torrents,
and earthquakes.
24*
278 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Perverted religion is the first food of fanaticism, but politics
have learned to tread in its steps, and war to waste what both had
erected. The face of the world owes its magnificent changes, as
well as its blackened and bloody fields, to these mental impulses.
The madman of Macedonia, left the name of Alexander so deep-
ly imprinted on the globe, that it can never be effaced. He died
at the age of thirty-three, but his imitators in devastation never
die.
The impress of imitation is as lasting as the pages of history.
The hves of Julius Csesar, and Napoleon Buonaparte, will bring
to mind their great exemplar, Alexander the Great.
The never ceasing visions of glory, make the most unbounded
tyranny pass for liberty and law, and the most cruel tyrant for a
minister of mercy and justice.
Equality of misery is hailed as equality of rights, and the food
of vanity as the bread of life.
The prefects of France in Napoleon's reign, rendered to the
emperor that homage alone due to heaven. The students of ser-
vility may profit by studying the times of the victorious Corsican.
A mayor of one of the cities of France, affirmed in his ecstacy of
loyal adoration, that the Deity after making Napoleon, must have
rested as he did after having created the universe.
§ 2. In 1817, Alexander, the Czar of the Russias, issued an
ukase, forbidding his subjects to pay himself divine honors, as they
did, and as they had been accustomed to do to his predecei^sors.
That emperor for his talents, his principles and his piety, merits
the highest eulogy. Buonaparte lauded him for his polished
manners, comparing him to a polite Parisian ; but posterity will
award him the meed of qualities more golden and glorious. The
greatest general of the modern world, with an army of eight
hundred and fifty thousand men, invaded his dominions, but was
compelled by his genius to quit them with disgrace.
The burning of Moscow decided the fate of Napoleon. Alex-
ander dared to draw the lion's tooth, although at an immense
laceration of his own hand and arm.
Of the immense army of the invader, something like five hundred
thousand men were lost by balls, bayonets, sabres, cold, starvation.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 279
fatigue and drowning. Of the remnant, one hundred and fifty
thousand were taken prisoners by the allies. These allies were
composed of the confederated armies of Russia, Prussia, Aus-
tria, Saxony, and the minor powers of Europe ; who, with a
generosity unparalleled, restored to France, those prisoners of
Napoleon's army. But now the spirit of martial enthusiasm was
developed in all its hideous glory. These men returned to France
not to become peaceable citizens, but to murmur aloud for more
war ; and to sigh and to manifest all manner of insubordination,
to be again under the command of the hero whe had led them
into the horrors of a Russian winter—who had reduced them to
feed on the carcases of horses, dead with starvation—who had led
them where their valorous companions in arms had fallen dead,
hundreds of thousands in number, around them.
An instance cannot be adduced since the world began, of a
more insatiable thirst for blood—a thirst which increased in a ten-
fold degree by its apparent satiety. Continual war was their
only wish, perpetual danger their only pleasure, and human blood
their only feast.
Buonaparte, at this period exiled to the island of Elba, had
sufficient discernment to discover the enthusiastic attachment of
the relics of his army, to his person and his fortunes. Hence
yras the path opened for his return to France, marshalling his old
280 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
army, and increasing it by new levies. The result was the battle
of Waterloo. It seemed, as Sir Walter Scott observes, that the
youth of France were, at this period, made for nothing but to be
slaughtered. Those who had withstood the pestilential climate
of St. Domingo, the sands and suns of Egypt, the cold of Russia,
the lances of the Cossacks, and the muskets and sabres and
swords of allied Europe, were, by their own enthusiasm, doomed
to die at Waterloo ; and to die for him, who in the language of
Lord Bacon, would have set the world on fire to roast a mess of
eggs for his own dinner.
Some savages have worshipped the tempest, and sacrificed to
the furious storm, to allay their devastations ; but the sacrifices of
the French were to increase the fury of the roused lion, to speed
the lightning, and to add to the thunder's roar, and to the volca-
no's cloud-mounting blaze.
Genuine liberty can only exist where self-government and edu-
cation are its companions. The name itself, without these ac-
companiments, may dethrone and cut off the head of a king, and
prostrate a tyrant ; but a hundred more merciless tyrants in their
room will assuredly rise up.
Mr. Burke said that absolute democracy was no more a legiti-
mate government than absolute monarchy. There can be nothing
absolute where there is genuine liberty, except absolute self gov-
ernment. In France, during their revolution, the people became
despotic, as soon as they had made their aristocracy republican,
and killed their king. Twenty thousand men, women and chil-
dren, from the suburbs of Paris, armed themselves with pikes,
and were ready to inflict death on all who had property, decency
or religion—upon all who manifested natural affection, by la-
menting the fate of their fathers beheaded, or their brothers and
sons imprisoned. Useless have been the efforts of tyrants in all
ages, to make men think and act alike, by compulsion.
William Penn, who taught universal toleration, and who act-
ed up to his own principles, did more towards producing uniform-
ity than any other man. Next to him, was Roger Williams, of
Rhode Island. The example and precepts of these men, and
their coadjutors, has infused toleration into all sects and denomi-
nations, religious and political.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 281
The English Constitution, which in times of democratic fury,
verges towards monarchy, and in times of monarchical despotism,
bends itself towards republicanism, comes nearest to perfection
of any system except our own.
Mr. Burke observes that the Magna Charta of King John was
connected with another positive charter from Henry I. And he
adds, that both the one and the other were nothing more than a
reaffirmance of the still more ancient standing law of the king-
dom. They were in fact, nothing more than a confirmation of
inherent natural rights, belonging to the people, which no govern-
ment on earth had ever any right to take away.
It was fortunate for our institutions, that men of such strong
and superior minds, as those possessed by Roger Williams, and
William Penn, came to this country with the spirit of liberty and
toleration deeply pervading their breasts, and influencing their
actions. They brought hither the genuine seeds of good old
English liberty, perhaps originally of Saxon origin, but which had
ceased to be cultivated in the mother country.
It is said by Mr. Southey, that Roger Williams, the founder
of Rhode Island, founded the first government, in the known
world, upon the principles of universal toleration ; not even Ro-
man Catholics being excluded from their religious privileges, or
debarred of any political right—which was not the case at the first
settlement of either Massachusetts or Connecticut.
William Penn, the founder and proprietor of Pennsylvania,
adopted universal toleration, not from imitation of Roger Williams,
or any one else, but from his own liberal views and sentiments, as
respected both religion and civil government.
Every lover of genuine and rational liberty ought to hold the
memory of these two worthies in very high estimation. Whoever
visits Philadelphia, or Providence, will call to mind that he is in
the city where the one and the other dwelt ; and cannot fail at
being pleased with the excellent institutions of each, and with the
liberal politeness, and friendship, and hospitality, of their present
inhabitants.
These early visitors of America, deposited the acorn in the
ground, and their posterity are living under the shade of its um-
282 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
brageous oak. An oak which has now extended its limbs, and
shelters and shades no less then twenty-six independent states.
It has been said that Coesar had friends, and that Pompey had
friends, but no one was a friend of Rome.
But these men were friends to their country, their whole coun-
try, and every one of its inhabitants, by instituting universal
toleration.
Some politicians would govern states, as does a bad nurse her
child—beat it till it cries, and then renew the blows, because it
cries. William Penn, and his society of Friends, would govern
mankind, by instilling into their minds the mild principles of reli-
gion, morality, forbearance, and friendship.
^;;;^^;==_
^^^^^^'
^^Bl
^^S^^Hr ilwj^^^
^Biyi^fi^g^lKl^Iiiil
1
IlilP" Zi^^-—-~-^^^^^^^m
We owe much to men of his principles, on the score of dimin-
ishing the number of capital punishment's, the abolition of the
slave trade, and the diminution of the use of ardent spirits. We
learn that in Great Britain, crimes of the higher grades have
rapidly diminished since the number of executions have been
lessened.
We repeat that we owe much to these men, whose names
ought to be mentioned with those of Washington and Greene.
The liberality, the political deference and urbanity, which we
view in the conduct and intercourse of public men, and diplo-
matic agents, and religious sects, and ministers of all denomina-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 283
tions, began with us in the New World, and is rapidly spreading
over the European and Asiatic parts of tlie Old.
And it is worthy of all consideration, that let our glorious
Revolution be imitated where it will, that unless the moderation
of these men travel with it, it will carry a curse rather than
bring a blessing. We have had a most notorious, but most ap-
palling proof of this, in the great French Revolution ; where the
name of liberty plunged the assassin's dagger into the breast of
youth, and innocence, and religion ; where eight thousand guilt-
less persons were massacred in prison, in two days ; where execu-
tioners and murderers, after wearying themselves with shedding
blood, entered into the hall of judgment, and with their hands
reeking and smoking with gore, took the seat of judges, in order
to pronounce the sentence of death upon other untried, uncon-
victed, and innocent persons ; whilst the judges, who vacated
their seats for these wretches, sallied forth to take their places,
and to act the part of hangmen, and executioners, in their own
identical persons ; where, in a short space of time, three hundred
thousand persons were committed to prison, one third of whom
were women.*
The moral moderation, and self control, of a Williams and
Penn, with their toleration, were there more conspicuously lack-
ing, than the military talents of a Washington^ the political abili-
ties of a Jefferson^ or the naval prowess of a Perry.
France continued to flourish in military and political glory,
even when she denied her God, desecrated her bishops, beheaded
her generals, and guilotinecf her citizens.
But mark, and well mark, the end and conclusion of the
tragedy. Her days of boasted liberty and equality, of republi-
canism, and liberty of the press, ended, as Edmund Burke pre-
dicted they would, in a monarchy, and military despotism, more
intolerably burdensome, odious, and degrading, than any that she
had ever before known.
The Bastile, about which the Jacobins made such a noise that
it was heard the world over, contained but nine prisoners at most,
when it was destroyed. Whereas, under what they called the
* See Sir Waller Scott's Life of Buonaparte, for thiS; and many other par-
ticulars of the French Revolution.
284 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
republic, as we have seen, three hundred thousand persons were
imprisoned, and this not inchiding the eight thousand who were
massacred in prison.
To indulge the tongue in harmless conversation, was to endan-
ger the cutting off of the head. Of the hundreds of thousands
imprisoned, many were let out only to behold the light that lighted
them to the guilotine.
The notions of the French canaille, were like those of the Swiss
emigrant woman, at New York, who cut open and began to plun-
der from a bag of coffee, of which there was a jpile lying on a
wharf; and when arrested, said that she supposed that she had
come to a land of liberty. The Republican Government of
France, was as Sir Walter Scott observes, that of a mob, robbing
and murdering those who had property.
Virtue, education, moderation, and toleration, are the four cor-
ner stones of a republic.
A representative legislature, will ever be a miniature picture of
the people. We behold in a legislator, the face of his constituents.
In the four Presidents which Virginia has given our Union, we
beheld in alto relievo, the towering, honorable, high-minded prin-
ples of that noble state.
But when we mention our own Revolutionary worthies, we
ought not to omit a name which is not so often repeated as it
ought to be. It is that of Robert Morris, of Pennsylvania, who
by his own financial abilities, and private credit, supported the
credit of the whole country. The sinews of war are men and
money. And the latter, or rather its substitute, was afforded by
paper, bearing the name of Mr. Morris. In reviewing our Revo-
lutionary war, it would seem that its wheels must have been stop-
ped, and that they could not possibly have rolled on to our final
independence, without the aid of that one man. He must be
considered as the Neckar of our emancipation.
It was said by a certain satirist, that money could not be of
much importance in the eye of Heaven, considering the unworthy
hands into which it often falls. And this remark has been applied
to victory. And well may it have been so applied, as it related
to the victories of the French Revolution. As empires resumed
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 285
their former bounds, kingdoms their former dynasties, men their
former occupations, and the people their former servitude, when
peace returned.
After that immense struggle, of more than twenty years con-
tinuance, after the millions of lives lost, and the hundreds of
millions of money expended, the affairs of Europe returned into
their old time-worn channels.
But not so here. Such was not the case in the New World.
Within less than half the duration of time of our war, with in-
comparably less loss of blood and treasure, we achieved our inde-
pendence, secured our liberty, abolished monarchy, and now
have doubled the number of our states.
Our Revolution furnishes a striking contrast, when compared
with those of the Old World. Even Cromwell's rebellion, as the
English call it, ended in the restoration of legitimacy.
25
CHAPTER VII.
OF SLEEP, DREAMS, SLEEP WATCHING, SLEEP WALKING, SLEEP WORK-
ING, AND TALKING. HIPPOCRATES. QUESTION OF THE LEGALITY
OF TELLING CERTAIN DREAMS. FALSITY OF DREAMS. REMARK-
ABLE CASES. OPIUM AND THE POPPY.
§ 1. One half the day we are in darkness even when the sun
shines, and when we are in the hght of it. This is owing to the
sight of the eye being covered in winking. And when we include
the time which we sleep, it is clear that more than half our days
are spent in darkness.
It was from the affinity between sleep and death, that Mr.
Boyle concluded that this life was not made for happiness.
When asleep, we cannot be said to be either happy or miserable,
it being a state of nihility as to enjoyment or suffering.
In winking, the eye is so quickly uncovered that we do not miss
the light.
Whether light is material or not, has been made a question.
Sir Walter Raleigh, concluded that it certainly was material,
because it sometimes gives pain. A bright sun, gazed at, will
give pain to a well eye, and is absolutely intolerable to an eye
inflamed. But if light is matter, it is matter of too subtil a nature
to be weighed. The rays of the sun, concentrated by a burning
glass, and made to fall into the most delicate scale of a balance,
will not affect the equilibrium.
Although we cannot be said to enjoy happiness when we sleep,
yet it fits us to enjoy life the better when we wake. Thus the bard
:
" Sleep, that knits up the ravelled sleeve of care,
The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath,
Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
Chief nourisher in life's feast."
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 287
The action of the mind is thought ; our sleeping thoughts are
dreams. It cannot be proved that we always think in sleep, be-
cause we do not always dream, and some persons never dream.
The voluntary actions of life are ended in sleep ; but the involun-
tary motions of life, which are breathing, the beating of the heart,
and the circulation of the blood, continue in the same vigor as
when we are awake.
§ 2. Persons sometimes distinctly remember their dreams.
At other times, like Nebuchadnezzar, they only are able to recol-
lect that they have dreamed, but cannot bring to mind the purport.
Sometimes an occurrence which takes place in the day time, first
brings a dream to recollection ; as when a basket of red apples is
seen, and the dreamer then for the first time remembers that he
dreamed that he saw a tree loaded with such kind of fruit the
night before.
Some superstitious persons believe that dreaming of fruit or
flowers in winter, is an omen of bad luck, which if it occurs, re-
calls their dream in all its vividness.
Dreams are sometimes impressed upon the memory upon first
awaking, but upon getting up, or even upon turning over, they
vanish. This is owing to an alteration in the position of the head.
The head contains the brain, and the brain contains the mind.
Those, therefore, who wish to retain their sleeping thoughts, must
impress them upon their waking thoughts, before they change
the position of the head. This will be the easier believed, when
we recollect that so many important points in the animal economy,
depend upon a fine transparent fluid, called the nervous juice ;
and that the brain itself, is a soft substance, with an immense
number of convolutions, or little eminences and depressions,
which are secured by a membrane which is softer and thinner,
and more tender, than the finest and thinnest fabric of silk that
was ever woven. This is called the pia mater^ and covers every
little inequality, cavity, and ventricle of the brain, and even fol-
lows its continuation into the spine, and covers the spinal cord.
The words of the Wise Man, respectmg dreams, are these
:
For a dream cometh of the multitude of business ; and a fool is
known by the multitude of words.
288 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Thus dreams, and fools, are mentioned in the same connection,
by Solomon.
§ 3. Nature sports with man in his waking hours. She dis-
plays the fog-bank, and the ice-island, to the eye of the mariner,
which he sometimes mistakes for land, although it may be fifteen
hundred miles distant. And we have just read of the loss of a
vessel, by what the sailors call the looming up of the land.
If nature sports with the senses so seriously, when man is
awake, she may continue her sports into his sleeping hours. We
have no control over our dreams, nor always of our senses ; for
when we open our eyes, in the broad light of day, we must see
such objects as are presented to our sight, and these are often such
as we would not choose.
There is an opinion in the world, that dreams should be inter-
preted by the rule of contrary, and that to dream of a funeral
betokens a wedding, and vice versa. And we once had a dream,
which we are sure ought to follow this rule. It was, that a certain
maiden lady, who was the very pattern of virtue and reservedness,
was of an opposite character, and that she assumed her modesty
and chastity of demeanor, only for the purpose of licentiousness.
No dream ever did a person more flagrant injustice. And in this
instance, we can boldly contradict what we have heard asserted,
viz. that we never dream of any thing of which we have not
thought when awake ; for we are certain that such a thought never
entered our heart, nor never ought to have done.
The present writer has sometimes dreamed of composing poeti-
cal stanzas, but never could call to mind a single couplet. One
line, however, was once distinctly recollected ; but it savors so
little of poetry, that no one will suspect that it sprang from the
inspiration of the muses. It was as follows :
The bustle of love's controversial glee.
The dreamer of the following lines, retained the whole stanza,
and we will give it a place.
" The v^^orld a thousand ways complains,
A thousand ways expresses pains,
But for her mirth she has but three,
And very small ones, ha, he, he."*
* Originally from King's Poems.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 389
§ 4. It is surprising to find, as we sometimes do, a great
amount of wisdom, combined with a share of downright folly.
The great hght of antiquity, the divine Hippocrates, whose
works on the heahng art, have stood nearly two thousand years
the test of utility, and the sanction of experience, left a prescrip-
tion for dreams, by which it would seem that he considered them
a disease of sleep. It is possible, however, that there may be
something mystical connected with the matter, when its strange-
ness is considered.
*'
If you dream," saith the sage, " that you see the stars grow
pale, as soon as you awake you must run round and round ; if it
is the moon that loses its brightness in your dream, you must run
straight forward ; and if the sun, then you must run backward
and forward."*
We may also notice the wise Marcus Aurelius, as a believer
in the verity of dreams. He thanked the gods for the remedies
communicated to him in this way, for his giddiness and spitting
of blood.
We also have an account of St. Jerome's having dreamed of
Iiis having received a severe flogging from an Angel, for the
offence, of which he was guilty, which was that of writing in the
style of Cicero ! which a certain commentator thought " a mar-
vellous piece of injustice in the Angel."
It is noticeable that Hippocrates defines the dream, as well as
the remedy. We are not aware that he extended his prescriptions
to dreams of any other description, than to those of the sun, and
moon, and stars.
§ 5. Dreams prove false even when seemingly substantiated
by waking facts. Of this, a remarkable instance occurred in
Vermont. A man had unaccountably disappeared from one of
the towns in that state, and no intelligence, nor trace of him was
received, although a very considerable time had elapsed. The
affair, of course, elicited many surinises and much conversation
in the neighborhood of his former residence. A man living in
*yee Analectic Review, No. 30, for June, 1815. We have not noticed this
subject in any of Hippocrates' writings, ourselves.
25*
290 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
the vicinity, dreamed one night, that the missing man appeared to
him, and told him that he had been murdered, and referred him to
a tree bearing certain marks, near which he had been buried, and
where his bones might be found. He also told the said dreamer,
by whom his life had been taken, and that his murderers were
two brothers, by the name of Bourn.
The man was so much impressed by his dream, that he got
up, and sat a while reflecting upon it ; then went again to bed,
and twice more had the same dream. Here then was all the evi-
dence that a dreamer could wish. He then left his bed with a
determination to search the spot, and aroused some of his neigh-
bors to accompany him.
To the surprise of all, the marked tree was found, and near it
the appearance of a grave, in which were found bones.
The Bourns, who were connected with the absent man by mar-
riage, and in whose company he had last been seen, in Vermont,
were arrested, and after examination, committed to prison. They
were tried for their lives, and one of them sentenced to be hung.
This one, Jessy Bourn, confessing himself guilty of the murder !
This fact seems truly astonishing, when there had been no mur-
der committed, and when the missing man was still living.
Stranger things happen in reality, than any writer of fiction ever
dared to invent. Here then was a man who confessed himself
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 291
guilty of murder, knowing at the same time that the gallows was
his fate, and still he was innocent, and the man whom he con-
fessed he had murdered, alive.
We often hear of persons leaving the world, falsely asserting
their innocence ; but here was one, apparently about to leave it,
falsely confessing his guilt. An advertisement having been in-
serted in the newspapers, for the purpose of discovering where
the lost man had wandered, it produced the desired effect. He
was found in New Jersey, where in a state of insanity he had
strayed away. And judges, jurors, witnesses, jailers, and dream-
ers, were surprised, and the supposed criminals and the commu-
nity gratified, by his living appearance, at Manchester, where
stood the jail, and where was to have stood the gallows.
It seems that the two brothers finding the popular current pet-
ting strongly against them, and circumstantial evidence corrobo-
rating the dreamer's story, agreed between themselves, that the
only method to prevent their both being hung, was for one of
them to confess himself guilty, and thus exculpate the other. As
they were both poor men, with families, this prudential proceed-
ing would save the life of one, and was the cause of the other's
owning the murder. An attitude of human nature, in which the
care of men for their families, beyond the grave, is strongly por-
trayed ; as the survivor was to take care of both their families.
On the appearance of the supposed defunct, a day of rejoicing
was ordained. To the beating of drums, and firing of cannon, a
sermon succeeded in the good New England style of thanJcsgiv-
ing. Upon a re-examination of the supposed grave, it was sup-
posed to have been an old disused potatoe hole, into which some
animal had found its way, and found its death, and left its bones.
It would surely have been better for the dreamer to have held
his tongue about his dream, than by telling of it to have caused
such immense trouble and misery. Still, considering its threefold
repetition, and the mysterious absence of the man, we presume
that there are but few but what would have done as he did.
Enough has now been told about dreams to prove that they can-
not always be related with impunity. And we recollect another
instance which occurred in the place where we once resided to
the same effect.
292 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
§ 6. A man of respectable family, and highly respectable con-
nections, had become very poor. A wealthy merchant's store
near by was robbed, and a person dreamed that this man was
the robber. His poverty was the only circumstance against him,
and this, we never can forget, when we heard of it, made a strong
and painful impression upon our own mind at the time. Not that
we believed him guilty, but that by the dream, added to his pover-
ty, that his feelings, his character, his relations, and his family,
would be injured. Happily the thief was brought to light, in the
person of a black fellow. We incline to think that an action of
slander might be sustained against a person for publishing such a
dream to the world. Certainly it might, if the theory be correct,
that the laws of the land will punish any one, who by words,
actions, writing, or painting, does an injury to the character of
another.
Many, and ourselves among the rest, had we been called on,
must have testified that the character of Esquire R. suffered by the
publication of this dream.
Dreamers who spread abroad odious and defamatory dreams^
ought to reflect that themselves may be dreamed about ; or that
waking dreams may be trumped up to fit their case.
§ 7. A pleasant story, of our native town, is told of the latter,
as having occurred in times past. Town meeting after town
meeting was there held upon some matter, not of very great con-
sequence, but upon which no decision could be had. Parties run
high, and discord was the order of the day. The principal cause
of all this turmoil was finally thought to be owing to a certain pet-
tifogger, whose intrigues, and contradictory speeches, seemed
fitted to entangle every subject, and to disunite every movement,
tending to concord. His name was Dorr. A new town meeting
was called, and every voter present was expected to sustain his
party. But when the vote was called, one man was sound asleep,
and every effbrt to rouse him was vain. After a while, however,
he spontaneously awoke, and declared that he had had a re-
markable dream and vision. That he had, in fact, been so near
to the infernal regions, as that he heard and saw what was going
on there ; and that news was brought to the prince of darkness,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 293'
whilst he was there, by one of his scouts, that a town meeting was
about being held in the town of L. Ah, said the Devil, saddle
my horse immediately, if that is the case I must be there. Whilst
he was preparing for his journey, his imp happened to mention
that he saw lawyer Dorr at the place ; upon which intelligence,
his Satanic majesty countermanded his horse, and gave up his
intended journey, obsemng, that if lawyer D. was there, it would
do just as well as though he was there himself. We heard no-
thing more of these vexatious town meetings after this. The joke
put down the lawyer, and reconciled the people.
§ 8. Connected with sleep and dreams, is somnambulism, or
sleep walking ; of the forms of which, when produced by disease,
we have already spoken. But it has its connections with health,
as well as with sickness. And in this respect, it resembles that
kind of insanity which George the third had, and which many
others have, in which the bodily health is not impaired, the mind
alone evincing disease. Although this is its apparent state, we
are not prepared to say that it is its actual state. And notwith-
standing what the physicians of the King said, in one of their
bulletins, respecting his health being good, when he was in reality
a maniac, we incline to think that this maniacal state alone proves
bodily disease. It is indeed true that the strength remains, and
is often surprisingly increased. And so it is in convulsions,
which none deny to be a severe bodily disease. There are some
instances ^of morbid strength in both, which, were they told,
would be sufficient to stagger credibility. And such is the case
with some persons in health. Charlemagne could straiten three
horse-shoes at once, with his hands alone ; a thing as far surpass-
ing the strength of common men, as craziness is different from
common reason.
Connected with sleep and dreams, are sleep watching, sleep
walking and sleep working. " A great perturbation in nature !
to receive at once the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of
watching."
§ 9. Professor Upham, in his Philosophy, relates a case of
manual labor performed by a man in his sleep, which is equally
294 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
curious with that of Jane C. Rider's skimming her milk, setting
her table, and cutting the bread, as before related. This man,
an inhabitant of Massachusetts, arose from his bed, went to his
barn, ascended to the scaffold, over the great beams, by means of
a ladder, threw down and threshed five floorings of rye, in suc-
cession, in one night. When one flooring was finished, he raked
off the straw, carried it up the ladder, and deposited it on rails,
laid across the beams of his barn, and pushed up the threshed
grain to one side of the floor, just as skilful and systematic labor-
ers do in the day time. After all this, he threw down the bundles
for a sixth flooring, but in passing a hay mow, where the hay had
been cut down, he fell about six feet on to other hay below. The
fall awoke him. It was winter, but he found himself in a profuse
perspiration, so that his clothes were soaked through with sweat.
He did not know at first where he was, but thought himself in the
barn of one of his neighbors. By groping a long time in the
dark, he at last found that it was his own barn that he was in,
and that the doors were open. These he shut, and went to his
house. Next morning he found all things in order, and upon
measuring his iiighfs work, it appeared that the five floorings of
rye had yielded five bushels—a good half day's work for a first
rate thresher.
But the most surprising part of the case is, that his sleep walk-
ing sense enabled him to ascend a high ladder, fifteen or twenty
times, which he must have done, to have thrown down the six
floorings, and to have carried back the straw of five of them, and
yet that in his waking state, that he had to grope about a long
time before he could find his way out of the barn, even when the
doors were open, and his eyes open. We must again refer this
most curious phenomenon, to the sixth sense, the 6a^-sense, to
touch Avithout contact, or to a double soul.
§ 10. It is commonly supposed that sleep walkers do not see,
although their eyes are open ; but that they do discern^ cannot be
denied. What this man did, as well as what others have done, is
sufiicient proof of this.
A lad who lived in the family of the present writer's father, was
a somnambulist. He arose in his sleep, upon a certain night, and
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 295
came into the kitchen, where some of the family were still sitting
by the kitchen fire. There was a large wooden mortar standing
in one of the corners of the fire place, mouth upwards ; this he
turned bottom upwards, and sat down upon it. If he had not
discerned that it stood mouth upwards, he would not have changed
its position ; but that he had not his waking senses, or waking
reason, was very evident ; as he was all this time in his night
dress, consisting of a single garment, and as soon as he was
awakened, he ran out of the room with the utmost precipitation.
It has been said, that in dreaming and sleep walking, the per-
son is in a partial sleep. We think, on the contrary, that in the
latter, that the sleep must be most profound, or else that the noise
of the flail, in the case of the man who threshed the rye, would
most certainly have awoke him.
There is a waking and a sleeping mind, with senses and sensa-
tions peculiar to each ; as in crazy people, who reason strongly,
but all their inferences and deductions, are from false, perverted
and imaginary premises.
§ 11. Sleep walking is, therefore, the insanity of sleep ; and
very seldom does it lead a person to useful and regular labor ; but
on the contrary, the most unimaginable, and dangerous actions
and eccentricities, usually are its results. We never recollect, in
all our maniacal patients, and we have had many, nor in our va-
rious authors, any single one which can compare with the sleep
mad act of a young man, whose case we shall next relate. It
occurred many years ago, in the then District, now State of
Maine.
He got up, and taking a rope in his hand, went to a barn, and
with one end of it tied up a bundle of hay. This he carried
some distance to the edge of a wood, where he ascended a tail
tree, dragging up his bundle. When he came to where branches
shot out, he deposited his hay in the bifurcation, or forking of the
tree, and then ascended still higher up, where he tied the rope
around one of the limbs, still leaving a part of it unemployed.
This part or end of the rope, he next tied around one of his an-
cles, and then precipitated himself head foremost downwards on
to the bundle of hay ! The concussion awoke him, and he found
296 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
himself standing on his head, with his feet upwards, and one
ancle tied so high above, that he could not possibly turn about,
and climb to the place, and disengage himself. In this uncom-
fortable posture, he was, therefore, compelled to remain the re-
mainder of the night. In the morning he was missed, the neigh-
bors aroused, and a search being commenced, he was at last dis-
covered in his ludicrous but distressed situation, ^nd so tall was
the body, or stem of the tree, before it shot out any limbs, that the
most dextrous climber present, could not possibly reach the som-
nambulist. Ladders were at length procured, and he was in the
end safely extricated.
gwf^^ffijy^Pfll
^^^B
^B^H^H^B -i -i^rC^LjSfer:
PI
Sleep walking usually differs from dreaming, in this, that the
sleep walker does not remember any thing about his wanderings,
his movements, or motives. This was true respecting the Spring-
field somnambuhst, Miss Rider, and with Mrs. Cass. Had this
young man, who was a schoolmaster, recollected his extraordina-
ry conduct in sleep, it would be a highly interesting part of his
case, to learn what thoughts and aims possessed his mind at the
time. But of these we can know nothing. It is very apparent
that his bodily dexterity, his strength and agility, were increased
in his sleep, by his being able to ascend a tree of such a height,
that persons awake could not climbs In this respect, his muscu-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 297
iar powers, like the senses of the sleep-walking ladies,* and like
the muscular powers of many maniacs, partook of a morbid en-
ergy. That he had a plan of operations, possessing his sleeping
mind, when he tied up the bundle of hay, with one end of the
rope, and left the other part disengaged, so that he could the easier
drag it up the tree, and when there could tie it round a limb, and
then round his ancle, must, we think, be admitted. Those who
do up bundles of hay for any common purpose, do not tie them
up with one end of a rope, but they first double the rope, and lay
the hay upon the middle of it, and then draw both ends through
the doubling, thus forming two running nooses.
We cannot believe that he had self destruction in view, for we
know of no instance in which suicide has been voluntarily com-
mitted by a somnambulist, although we have instances of their
endangering their lives by leaping from chamber windows. But
this has been done from fear of imaginary murderers, or some
other fancied injury.
But it is perhaps useless to speculate upon a manoeuvre so
strange, for that which is not done by the dictates of reason, rea-
son can do little in discovering. If he had method in his sleep
madness, his method was mad. It was unlike Kachel Baker's,
whose sleep sermons were methodical, systematic and excellent;
yet all dependant upon her sleeping mind, her waking mind
having no such talent, nor her waking memory any reminiscence
of them.
§ 12. Sleep-talkers appear to remember some things in their
sleep, and to forget other things intimately connected with them.
A man would answer his wife's questions correctly in his sleep,
but at the same time would forget his waking reservations ; in
consequence of which, she was able to draw from him secrets,
valuable to a woman, of which he would not tell her a word when
awake, when it is probable that he had no recollection of having
revealed them in his sleep.t
* See Chap. IV.
t Another instance of a similar kind, in which a boy confessed a theft in his
«leep, was told me by the Hon. M. Storrs.
26
298 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Had not Rachel Baker's sermons been written down by some
of her hearers, the world would have been deprived of a great
curiosity, as she had not the least remembrance of them, nor no
gift of preaching when awake.
§ 13. A more recent case of somnambulism, or sleep mad-
ness, which occurred at Portland, in the State of Maine, is wor-
thy of notice, as it appears to differ from those which we have
hitherto related, in this respect, that the boy recollected the causes
which led him to his perilous acts. Mr. Adams of that city, was
awakened in the night, by a noise which resembled scuffling, at-
tended with groans, which appeared to proceed from a room in
the third story, where his son, a lad of thirteen years, slept. His
first impressions were, that his house was attacked by robbers,
and that murder was attempted. Hurrying to the bed chamber
of the boy, he found the bed empty, and the window and sash
broken in pieces ; but looking out at it, he saw his son standing
up on the ground below, and when spoken to, he answered in his
usual voice, as if nothing had happened. Mr. Adams now has-
tened down stairs, and discovered him approaching the door to
enter the house. The first thing which he said upon seeing his
father was, that his arms were both broken ; and they were both
bleeding. He was taken into the house forthwith, a physician
sent for and his arms examined ; and what is quite surprising is,
that he had not a broken bone. The bleeding wounds on his
arms, were owing to the flesh being torn, the cutis and muscles
lacerated, but the bones were not injured ; and not the least mar-
vellous part of the disaster was, that he fell upon a picket gate,
as we are told, and that it was broken in pieces. It is evident,
however, that if he had fallen directly on the pickets, from the
window of the third story, that he must have been killed. The
probability seems to be, that he struck the gate, not vertically, but
rather partly in a horizontal direction, as he jumped from the
window, and thus demolished it. But in any point of view, that
his body and lower limbs escaped harm, is sufficiently worthy of
notice. The account which he gave was, that he thought that
somebody came into his chamber to kill him. He was frighten-
ed, and remembered jumping out of bed, and attempting to defend
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 299
himself with a chair, but his assailant pressing upon him, he next
tried to escape by the window, and run his arm or arms through
the glass, but finding the opening insufficient, he beat the glass,
sash and all, in pieces with the chair, when he jumped down into
the yard below. The laceration and bleeding of his arms, was
imputed to his thrusting them through the glass, and this was the
only injury of which he made any complaint.
§ 14. We have lying before us, some curious accounts from a
London physician, G. G. Sigmond, M. D. upon the subject of
sleep.* They are recent and novel. One case is that of a man
who lived to the age of seventy-three years, and yet who never
knew what sound sleep was, even for half an hour, during his
long life. He was once known to doze for about fifteen minutes,
which was every thing that he was known to have had resembling
sleep, and even this was not sound.
On the other hand, the case of Samuel Chilton, is equally sin-
gular. He was a laborer of about twenty-five, and slept for the
space of seventeen weeks ! In the last seven weeks he had one
evacuation which was alvine, and one which was urinary. In
the first ten weeks it is conjectured that he ate, but no one saw
him. He was bled, blistered, cupped, scarified, and had every
irritating application externally applied, without the slightest
effect.
In a case which occurred to the present writer, in which a
needle had been tried by pricking the man's leg with it, without
the least motion or flinching, and various other exciting agents
used, we had guns fired under his window in the night, and pistols
into the fire place of his room, with the effect of arousing him,
and finally bringing him out of his somnolency, and apoplexy of
fever and ague.t
Sir Isaac Newton, in a letter to the celebrated Mr. Locke,
writes that he had not himself slept an hour a night for a fortnight,
and for five days together, not a wink.
* See Boston Medical and SurgicalJournal, Vol. XV. No. 25.
t This was a case of intermittent fever, in which, instead of a chilly fit, the
patient went into an apoplexy.
300 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
^
Want of sleep, is one of the maladies of literary characters,
and narcotics the grand remedies for their comfort and relief.
Of these, opium, which the renowned and pious Boerhaave called
the finger of God, and which the celebrated Sydenham mentions
with gratitude to the Supreme Being, is the principal. This
remedy, judiciously managed, is worth more than its weight in
the most fine gold, nay than of diamonds of the first water.
Without it, Sylvius declared that he would abandon the science
of medicine, as holding forth expectations that never could be
realized. It will always do good if just enough, and not too
much is given. Doses which are too small, often fail, and even
make the sufferer more sleepless.
§ 15. The celebrated Dr. S enter, of Rhode Island, was called
to a sleepless lady, who was under the care of Dr. Perry. The
lady informed him that Dr. P. had given her opium, which only
kept her eyes wide open. Dr. S. expressed his surprise to her
that a physician of Dr. P.'s judgment, should think of giving her
opium ; and turning round directed that she should take some-
thing in another form of composition. This she did, with the
happiest effects. But after recovery, she was told that the latter
remedy contained about three times as much opium as her former
prescriptions. I had this anecdote from the lady herself, who,
contrary to some ladies, who are not pleased with any deception,
even if it benefits them, was highly pleased with the relief she ob-
tained.
§ 16. The white poppy, which produces opium, by its sponta-
neous juice, grows in its native soils of Asia Minor, India, and
Egypt, to the height of four or five feet. It is called " Masch-
Mlah^^ " the gift of God," by the Mussulmen. Opium was
known as long ago as the time of Galen, and the poppy is men-
tioned by Homer.* But it is to the illustrious Boerhaave, that
the modern world owes its extensive medical use.
In Persia and China, and many other eastern countries, it is
used as an exhilerant, just as the Europeans and Americans use
wine and distilled spirits.
* See the Pharmacologia of Dr. Paris, and the United States Dispensatory,
Ji
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 301
Hippocrates does not appear to have used opium as a narcotic,
or medicine to produce sleep, as he speaks of f^ijKMy [mecon,] the
name of the poppy plant in Greek, as a nutritive
—
mecon, hence
meconium ; and it is said, that the Persians use the young plants
which they pull up when they stand too thick, for pot herbs. It
would from hence appear, that the milky juice only, contains the
narcotic quality, and that the young plant contains so little of
this, that it produces no ill effect as an aliment. That Hippo-
crates did not use opium to produce sleep, may have been owing
to his preferring some other similar remedy ; as Diagoras, a co-
temporary of his, appears to have given opium for that purpose,
as we do now.
The poppy was cultivated in ancient times, and is so in some
countries at the present day, for its seeds, which are used as an
article of food ; sometimes by sprinkling them on bread, and
sometimes by extracting the oil which they contain, and using it
instead of butter. Watchmakers, under the name of oil of Ben,
use this oil for their machinery.
A solution of opium will kill plants. The bean plant was de-
st royed by Dr. Marcet by it in a day and a half. Leeches appli-
ed to the body of a child which had taken too much poppy-
heads, pro injection, were killed. Care must be taken never to
give a large dose of opium to a patient not in pain, for it is never
needed ; but in cases of severe pain, large doses are sometimes
the only remedies which nature affords.
26*
CHAPTER VIII.
UNIVERSALITY OF DECEPTION. FASCINATION OF SERPENTS. IN-
QUIRY AFTER UNIVERSAL OPINIONS, AND THE COMMON LOT OF
MANKIND. BISHOP HEBER. THE VEDDAHS. MR. MARSDEN.
LOCKE. REID. STUART. BROWN. THE CRANIOLOGY OF GALL.
THE QUAKER. EVIL SPIRITS. SOCRATES. PLATO. EPICURUS.
§ 1. We have before alluded to the universality of deception,
as very surprising indeed. No period is so remote, no clime so
distant, no court so polished, no nation so simple and uncontami-
nated, no cloister so secluded, no army so powerful, nor no indi-
vidual so acute, as not to have been subjected to this all pervading
principle. All prognostics sometimes fail. Events in philoso-
phy, in the arts and sciences, in business and pleasure, turn out
contrary to our "anticipations. Sun, moon and stars, clouds,
winds and skies, seas, seasons and comets, disappoint our calcu-
lations. If the common origin of man, is to be inferred from his
having any one thing in common, this is certainly one of the
most common of all, except his anatomical structure.
Deception is not confined to man ; animals deceive each other,
sometimes to their destruction, and then again only to their terror
and dismay. The mocking bird mocks the sparrow, which thinks
it hears its mate. It comes hopping and chirping along, when
suddenly the deceiver changes his tone and mocks the hawk, and
frightens the poor thing almost to death. We have seen a parrot
which would call chickens, and drop them its bread, but when
they approached to pick it up, it would call the dog and set upon
them.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 303
§ 2. The fascination of birds by serpents, has been affirmed
and denied ; but upon the whole, the evidence is conchisively in
favor of some strange and revoking principle in the affair. Curi-
osity in the bird at the sight of the coils and colors, and darting
tongue of the reptile, appear to be the first principle of attraction.
It flutters near, and then flies and flutters away, alternately, when
at last it flies to the serpent's mouth and is swallowed. There
have been different theories formed in order to account for so
mysterious a phenomenon. The poisonous breath of the serpent
has been supposed to paralyze the bird, when it comes near. But
why should it come near 1 It does come near, so near at last
that it is swallowed by the snake. A gentleman at the south,
who viewed the whole process, describes the serpent after it has
attracted the notice of the bird, as lying perfectly still, at its
whole length, and only moving its tongue. This it darts out, and
pulls in, constantly in succession. The curiosity of the bird to
view its destroyer more closely, has been assigned as the cause of
its coming so near as to be reached. We can hardly think this
possible ; and will just mention our own opinion, although it may
like all others, be liable to objection. It is, that the bird mistakes
the tongue of the serpent for a worm, which it attempts to seize,
when it is seized by the snake. As to the poisonous effluvia, or
breath, it cannot apply, for black snakes have been killed with
304 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
birds in them, which are not a venomous species of serpent, and
which have no poisonous breath.
Serpents are known to possess the power of climbing trees,
and thus to reach bird's nests, and to devour young birds. The
parent bird, therefore, beholds them with concern, flies round
them with a hostile note, and endeavors to drive them away.
One opinion is, that they sometimes approach so near in their
hostility, as to be caught by the snake ; but this cannot apply to
those cases in which birds have been taken, which had no young.
Two birds were seen to have been caught by one black snake,
which was lying stretched out on the limb of a tree. The snake
did not move, but the birds came to the snake.*
Dr. WillfamsOxN has written very sensibly upon the subject,
and imputes the whole process to such a degree of fear in the
bird, that it becomes dementated^ that is infatuated, crazy or mad.
But if terror be the cause, why does not the bird fly away at first,
why does it hover nigh, and fly round and round, till it flies to the
mouth of the terrific object ]
Fascination, or charming, if this be the cause, as is commonly
supposed, is a process of which no one knows any thing. It is
said to be an ancient opinion, which is all that can be said in its
favor. The instance of panic struck armies, has been adduced in
support of this theory of fear and terror. But we have never
1 -^rd of an army, which rushed on to the swords and bayonets of
an enemy, because they were afraid, but on the contrary, we have
heard of their running away as fast as possible.
We know that our theory will not apply to snakes catching
rabbits and squirrels ; but we impute this to the agility of the
snake, and to the young or feeble state of those individuals which
they happen to catch. This feeble state may be caused by hun-
ger in some instances, thirst, or lust in others. A cat one day
brought m a grown weasel, which curiosity led me to dissect,
knowing the marked agility of that little animal. I found its
stomach totally empty of food of any kind, in the most minute
quantity. This shews why it lost its strength and speed, so as to
fall a prey to puss. It was a female, and pregnant, and as all
* See an account from the pen of Hugh Williamson, M. D. in Med. Rep.
Hex.2.Vol. IV. p.341.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 305
beasts and birds of prey sometimes fail of food, this had shared a
like fate.
§ 3. The most prominent piece of deception among ancient
nations, was that of men and women, assuming preternatural
powers, pretending to be gods and goddesses, and making the
multitude believe their pretensions. They were also deified after
death, when their powers of doing good or evil were supposed to
be increased. A beautiful stone Avas presumed to be the residence
of an angel, or good spirit, and hence gems were worn as amu-
lets. The Arabians, who during the dark ages preserved letters,
figures and remedies, transferred them with their superstitious
notions, to the Europeans. These gems were not only worn, but
sometimes powdered, and taken as remedies for diseases, or to
keep off evil spirits, or to cure sterility. And if the recipient had
health, or good luck, or children, afterwards, it would be, of
course, imputed to the gem. The putting of corals around the
necks of infants is a relic of this superstition.
iEsculapius was the god of medicine. He is said to have re-
stored many dead to life, of which Pluto complained to Jupiter.
Pluto, the god of the infernal regions, fearing that his domain
would lack inhabitants. Jupiter noticed the complaint of Pluto,
and destroyed the medical god with a thunderbolt. So long as
the sick imagined their physician to be a god, they recovered.
This deception of fancy was not always confined to barbarous
nations, nor to the ignorant and illiterate, of civilized ones.
Even Lord Bacon betrayed a disposition to believe in the power
of charms and amulets, and Mr. Boyle seriously recommended
the thigh bone of an executed criminal, as a powerful remedy in
dysentery.*
The wise man of the Old World, Solomon, also, as we are told
by Josephus, used a spell or charm, to increase the efficacy of a
remedy. The falling sickness or epilepsy, was among the an-
cients supposed to have been caused by possession, or the influence
of demons. Solomon is said to have discovered a remedy for
this terrible disease, in a certain plant ; and to increase its effica-
cy by mystery, he had the root of the plant concealed in a ring,
* Pharmacologia, Vol. I. p. 29. Dr. Ives' edition.
306 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
and this ring applied to the nostrils of the patient. This decep-
tive process, was by a Jewish priest, practised before Vespasian
and his sons, and the tribunes of the Roman array ; and as Jose-
phus relates, with entire success.* It is probable that from
thence a certain plant obtained the name of Solomon's seal, which
it retains to this day.
Soranus, who wrote the Life of Hippocrates, relates what is
well known of honey, to every mother who has a young child,
that it is a remedy for children's sore mouths. But then, this is
not imputed by him to honey in general, but only to such as the
bees collect from flowers which grow near the tomb of Hippo-
crates.f
Did the man, woman or child, ever live, who was not on some
occasion, deceived and disappointed 1 We have the greatest
reason to suppose that such an instance never happened. The
universality of deception must therefore be admitted.
§ 4. We used formerly to believe with Mr. Locke, that there
was one universal point, in which all mankind, of every nation,
agreed, and in which they were not deceived. It is one in which
all ought to agree, and it is one in which none are deceived who
hold the opinion. Yet it is proved by a more extensive acquain-
tance with the nations of the world, than was known in the days
of Mr. Locke, that his view cannot be maintained. It was, that
there was a belief, coextensive with the human race, that there
existed a Supreme Being. Most, perhaps all, ancient nations, held
this tenet. This foundation of all religion, was as firmly held by
the ancient Athenians, as it is by modern Christians. Atheism,
among that people, even in individuals, was rare, and from one
circumstance, we should suppose very rare indeed. The instance
to which we allude, was that of Diagoras. He was a philosopher
and a poet, but after a whife became a professed atheist ; at which
the Athenians were so much incensed, that the Areopagites, whose
duty it was to punish impiety, as well as all other crimes, and
criminals, offered one talent for his head, and a reward of two
talents if he was brought alive,
* Id. p. 22. Antiquities of the Jews, Lib. vii. c. 2. 5.
tDr. Paris. Vol. I. p. ^27.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. . 307
The reason that this man became an atheist was, that he did not
see perjury punished by Heaven. A certain man swore falsely,
that some of the poetry of Diagoras, was his own, and because
justice was not done by the gods, Diagoras denied the being of a
God.
But there may have been some, in every age, who were secret
atheists, some insect blasphemers^ who disgraced themselves, their
nation, and their species. Still, it is only by modern travellers
and missionaries, that the fact has been brought to light, that there
are whole nations of atheists.
The authority of Bishop Heber is here conclusive. He drew
his knowledge from personal observation, and was himself among
the Zeddahs of India, when he wrote. And it is of this nation
that he says, that " they believe in evil spirits, but have no notion
of a God, or of future rewards and punishments, and consider it
a matter of perfect indifference whether they do evil or good."*
The whole Burman empire are atheists, and have been so,
according to Dr. (xood, for near a thousand years. They how-
ever expect a deity to appear at no very distant period ; it being
their opinion that their Boodhs, or gods appear, and disappear,
at certain periods.
The supreme good, with this singular people, is utter annihila-
tion. When their gods first appear, they are not, as they believe,
in a state of complete perfection. They gradually arrive at this,
at an indefinite period ; and when it is fully obtained, then do
they receive their reward, which is annihilation.
Men, are subjected to the same rules as gods. If both commit
sin, their sin is to be punished; and according to the number and
magnitude of their crimes, is to be their punishment. But when
these sins are thus expiated, then comes the reward, total anni-
hilation.
It would seem to us, that some superior, or Supreme Being, is
virtually recognised by the opinion that the punishment is propor-
tioned to the crime ; for how should this apportionment be other-
wise thus allotted 1 They however reject the doctrine of an eter-
* See Bishop Heber's Travels in India, Vol. II. p. 190.—Diagoras liyed 416
years before Christ.
308 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
nal self existent being, with horror ; and consider it impossible
that there ever was, or ever can be, either a god or a man, whose
existence shall never end.
These views are fully confirmed by Mr. Judson, an American
missionary at Burmah. He obtained an audience of the Emperor,
to whom he presented a tract in the Burmese language. This
tract began with stating, that there was one eternal God, who was
independent of the incidents of mortality, and that beside him
there was no god. The Emperor read this statement, when he
dropped the tract, or as Mr. Judson says, dashed it down, with
an air of indifference, perhaps of disdain. The fate of the mis-
sion appears to have been sealed, by an introduction, in this Em-
peror's view, so heretical.
Still this nation cannot be said to be entirely destitute of any
kind of religion at all, considering that they believe that sin is
punished ; and considering also, that they hold that virtue is re-
warded, by what they esteem the greatest good, which with them,
is non-existence. Even their absurd notions, shew some progress
in thought, reason, and induction, and mark a nation more ad-
vanced, than that of New South Wales, of which, Mr. Marsden,
the King of England's chaplain at that place, says, " They have
no knowledge of any religion, false or true."
§ 5. The systems of Locke, Reid, Stuart, and Brown, do not
appear to differ materially. They all deal in special pleadings.
Their general conclusions sometimes apply largely, sometimes
very limitedly, but seldom or never universal^. Mr. Locke, in-
deed, seems to be at odds with himself, when he teaches, that man
has no innate ideas, and yet that he has an innate idea of Deity !
All nations who believe in Revelation, believe that it was given
locally. Then why is Mr. Locke consistent, in assuming that the
very basis of all revealed religion is universal 1
We once knew a friendly Quaker, and a very good sort of man
was he, but he held, that he should have been the same man
which he then was, and he was pious and religious, even had there
been no divine revelation at all. He held that the inward spiritu-
al teachings^ were the same as those of the loritten word. We
referred him to the state of savage nations, in the wilderness
THE TONGUE OP TIME» 309
wilds, where not one of the many millions living, or who had
lived, could compare with Mm^ or even with the most diminutive
Christian. He was unable to parry this argument ; but probably
remained of his own opinion still.
The existence and influence of evil spirits, of the serpent, and
the devil, is revealed. It is a doctrine to be found in the Bible,
and therefore it is a matter of faith, which is not less than other
parts of revelation, enjoined on man to believe. We incline to
think that this belief does exist universally, among all savao-e
tribes, and even among the half human Papuan race,* and that it
may be marked down as a point in which the world agrees. We
are sometimes compelled to adopt conclusions which are not
pleasing. But it is far better to adopt unpleasing facts, than to
deal in fables and false theories.
The authority of such men as Bishop Heber, Dr. Good, Mr.
Judson, and Mr. Marsden, is of too serious import to be trifled
with, and indeed must command our implicit confidence.
§ 6. Mr. Locke's opinion, that our senses are the inlets of our
ideas, appears to coincide with that of Lord Bacon, that all our
knowledge is derived from experience. But these great men are
not therefore to be accused as having meant to teach that we are
to believe nothing except what we have seen, and experienced in
our own proper persons. For this would be the same thing as
teaching us to disbelieve all history, sacred and profane, as well
as the existence of all spirits, good and bad, and even of a Deity,
whom we have never seen.
Philosophical and metaphysical writers obscure their subjects,
by the multiplicity and obscurity of the terms which they use.
Thus we have instinctive prescience ; instinctive propensity ; dic-
tates of nature ; dictates of internal sensation ; simple notions ;
idtimate laws ; judgment ; and belief furnished bi/ the senses;
inductive principle ; constitution of human nature ; common under-
standing ; moral sense ; moral principle ; internal suggestions,
&c. ;t for the most of which, it is sufficient to use a more common
phrase, and one which if it is not fully understood, is more simple,
* The inhabitants of New Holland,
t See Dr. Good's Book of Nature.
27
3|0 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
and which indeed no one, except some fastidious philosopher^
will deny, that he himself understands—we mean common sense.
The supposition of the possession of this, is a universal principle.
It may very properly be termed the instinct of man. We are
well aware that some men may mistake their own uncommon non-
sense^ for this principle of common sense ; as when the craniolo-
gist asserts that every man has a bump for stealing. We do not
believe this assertion of Dr. Gall, nor his assumed fact in its sup-
port, which is, that there are very few persons who have never
stole any thing. And still more exceptionable do we deem his
opinion, that because robbery and murder do exist in the world,
that they exist by the will of God ; and that God formed a bump
of the skull, and a propensity of the mind, on purpose that these
crimes, which he prohibited, should yet be practised. We do not
admit that such opinions can be maintained, either by reason,
revelation, or common sense. Nor do we admit that these, and
other crimes, are willed, wished, or desired, by that Being, who
gave a law prohibiting them. We believe, that when a moral
agent was created, that power was given him to commit crimes,
as well as to practice virtue ; but that the latter was alone desir-
ed, and as we well know, commanded in the Bible.
§ 7. The gi'eat mystery is contained in that act of the Creator,
which created man an agent, which was capable of transgressing
his will. Yet, unless this was done, no moral agent was ever
created at all. And we certainly do not concede, that he who
made man, punishes him for crimes which he predetermined that
he should commit, and which he could not possibly avoid.
An omnipotent Being could exert his prescience, or withhold it,
just as he pleased. If he could not do this, he was not omnipotent.
And that he does not, on all occasions, exert supreme power, is
self evident ; for if he did, he would at once banish sin, and mise-
ry, from the world, and make men holy and happy. The matter
then resolves itself into this : that the possessor of all power, and
all foreknowledge, may not choose to exercise either, upon all
occasions.
Infinity, if it chose so to do, might have determined to know,
only by the result, whether his moral agent, man, would obey or
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 811
disobey. And it is just as easy to suppose this to have been the
true state of the case, as it is, that when God possessed all power,
that he did not choose to exert it, and thus to prevent the fall, the
disobedience, and the misery of man. And this we do certainly
know to be the fact. It is one of the most difficult things in the
world, to conceive of any being, who has the complete and entire
power of having every thing precisely as he pleases, that he should
not have them so as he pleases. But we do know, that in rela-
tion to the Supreme Being, this is true. Else had not the Bible
told us, that he repented that he made man, and that grieved him
to the heart. We know that certain commentators deny this part
of their Bible outright. But we do not see but that the appellation
of DEIST is as much deserved by such, as by those who deny the
whole of revelation.
§ 8. The principles of Messrs. Gall and Spurzheim, when
carried out, teach nothing less then that men were designed for
thieves and assassins. They appeal to his anatomical formation,
as proof positive of this.
Now the great and excellent Dr. Good, did not believe a single
word of their pretended science ; nor did the late Dr. Wistar, of
Philadelphia ; and a man of purer principles, nor a greater anato-
mist never existed. He had also an opportunity of judging cor-
rectly upon the subject, by having been an eye witness to the
dissection of the human brain, and to the pretended demonstration
of phrenology, by one of its great advocates ; which, in his view,
amounted to just nothing at all. The present writer heard him
speak in relation to this matter ; and although he was as free from
dogmatism, and peremptoriness, generally, as any man in the
world, and the very model of deference and urbanity, yet upon
this subject, he did speak so as not to be misunderstood, that
he considered it all as an imposture or delusion.
Still, although we deny that the head of man has thirty-two or
thirty-three distinct divisions, and that the criminal code can be
taught by them, we do admit that the human countenance can
express pleasure and pain, anger and good nature ; and that some
countenances are formed by nature with the dial of the mind im-
printed on the face. Physiognomy, thus far, is a predominant
31p THE TONGUE OF TIME.
principle. The young child, and the young puppy, read the hu-
man countenance divine. Both will fly the angry look and me-
nacing aspect, and both will notice the picture of good nature and
mildness, and be ever ready to receive the embraces and fondlings
of such persons as wear them in their countenances. So far,
physiognomy is a universal principle.
§ 9. There is no difficulty, with those who have clear ideas
themselves, in communicating them to others. When Dr. Reid
says, that common sense belongs neither to the mind nor to the
corporeal senses, but that it is a part of human nature which hath
never been explained, it is very evident that his ideas are in the
clouds, and that he communicates nothing to his readers but be-
clouded notions. Dr. Beattie's definition is more to the purpose,
when he teaches, that it is a power of the mind, which perceives
truth, so far as to command belief, by instinctive impulse. Mr.
Stewart makes common sense, and common reason, to be the
same. And if we confine his common reason to first impulses, or
to our first thoughts, he does not appear much, if any, out of the
way. But the common sense of men, after all, will differ, be-
cause their experience, their tact, or delicacy of perception, and
their wit, genius, and judgment differ.
He is the greatest general, who can bring the greatest number
of men to bear upon the enemy, at any given point, with the most
celerity. And this solves the enigma, of Buonaparte's vast supe-
riority to his opponents, as well as Julius Caesar's. It is precisely
so ^^dth individuals in private life. The man who can summon
all the energies of his mind at once, and who can discover all, or
the greatest number, of contingent relations, facts, and probabili-
ties, upon a given and passing subject, is the greatest man ; and
this whether he be a divine, a physician, a lawyer, politician,
soldier or scholar.
Lord Bacon said of knowledge, that it was power. But in
order for a man's knowledge to be powerful, it must, like an army,
be concentrated. Eccentric knowledge, is like a scattered army ;
it is divided, and therefore will be conquered.
There were individuals of antiquity, who by the light of nature,
obtained a firm behef of the existence, and correct ideas of the
THE TONGUE OP TIME.' 313
attributes, of the Divinity. Thus Epicurus says, that he pos-
sessed all immortality and beatitude. Cicero called God, the in-
expressible Being ; and says, that " the stable and perpetual
courses of the heavenly bodies, with their admirable and wonder-
ful regularity, manifest in themselves a divine energy and intelli-
gence, in so much that the man who does not see in them the
power of the divinity, must be truly stupid and insensible."*
Socrates, Plato, and Seneca, have all expressed ideas of the
Deity, not unbecoming those who have had the light of Revela-
tion. And Paul refers the Athenians to what their own poets had
said, upon the same subject, with approbation.
One cause, if not the sole cause of Socrates' having been put
to death, was, that he ridiculed the many gods in whom the Athe-
nians of his time believed. It was evidently his design to teach
his pupils their folly in trusting to false gods, and to fix their minds
upon the Great Supreme.
Instances of this kind might be multiplied, were it necessary
;
but we refer to the subject in this place, in order to shew, to what
sublime heights human nature may arrive, when its powers and
energies are concentrated. For those philosophers whom we
have named as having arrived to the height of true knowledge,
had also an immense store of knowledge upon other subjects.
And in the language of Cicero, it was the stupid and insensible,
who could view the heavenly bodies without being drawn to the
contemplation of one superior, intelligent, and Divine Being.
And in relation to the same subject, some one of the moderns has
observed, that an atheist had gotten one point beyond the devil.
But the query very naturally occurs, how whole nations should
have existed, and yet not have had any notions of the Divinity.
The opinion of Soame Jenyns was, that those who had this idea,
derived it from revelation, by intercourse with the Jews, or by in-
tercourse with those who had had some connection with, or tradi-
tion from them. That elegant writer even carried the matter so
far as to maintain that those nations which never had any such
intercourse, direct or collateral, did not even know how to make
a nail or a hatchet. We admit, however, that this opinion of the
* Cicero De Natura Deornm, as quoted by Lord Brougham.
27*
314 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
great supporter of divine revelation,* has been called in question,
and that when we consider the Egyptians, the Mexicans, and the
Chinese, that it seems impossible to maintain it.
One consideration occurs to us here, which is, that although a
few of the ancients had elevated ideas of the Divine perfections,
yet still, it does not appear that the great mass of the nations to
which they appertained, had conceptions any more sublimed than
those of barbarians.
Such men as Plato and Cicero, elevated the nations of which
they were members ; but we must be very careful to consider that
their mark is far too high to be stamped upon the national char-
acter of their respective people. They were like the church of
St. Peter at Rome, compared to the wigwam of the American
savage, or the kraal of the Hottentot.
High, very high, but higher seemed, because all near was low.
But there may have been in every nation, never so barbarous,
certain individuals who were the Platos and Ciceros of their
communities—who were, in their conceptions, what Gengis-
Khan was in arms, superior to all others of their time.
The recordsof many uncivilized empires never can be known,
because they do not exist ; and there have been men in every age,
whose brightness threw into shadows and shades, all their cotem-
poraries ; and whose characters, for that very reason, have been
martyred because of their virtues. Epicurus, whose common
diet was bread and water alone, who neither used wine, strong
drink, nor animal food, was so detested for his abstinence, that
the intemperate conspired to ruin his character with posterity, by
slander. They pretended that his apparent abstemiousness was
dissembled, and that he was in reahty luxurious and sensual.
Hence the most temperate man in the world, by false accusation,
has left his name standing at the head of wine bibbers and glut-
tons. Such O poor human nature is thy fate. It is true, how-
ever, that Epicurus taught his followers that the happiness of
mankind consisted in pleasure. But whence was that pleasure
" See the Internal Evidences of the Christian Religion, by Soame Jenjns,
Esq. Mr. Jenyna was many years M. P. for Cambridge.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 315
derived ] Agreeably to the true experience of all rational beings,
and to the dictates of all true religion and morality, he taught
that it was derived from temperance, the enjoyments of a mind
unsullied, and from the sweets of virtue ; and that it did not con-
sist in the gratification of the palate or passions, which was the
bane of pleasure, and all social and rational enjoyment. He re-
futed the Stoics, who attacked his doctrine, and added weight to
the refutation, by the purity of his life, and the unsullied guile-
lessness of his morals. Such sentiments, and such a life, could
only have emanated from correct and exalted ideas of the Divini-
ty, and these, as we have seen, he eminently possessed. His fol-
lowers, albeit, may not in this respect, all of them, have fully
appreciated the exalted notions of their leader ; as we find that
some of them alleged that the existence of evil militated against
the doctrine of an intelligent Creator, and was a proof of im-
perfection.
§ 10. Aristotle was a philosopher, who is reckoned with the
Pantheists. He held that God and matter were equally of eter-
nal duration, both being without either beginning or end ; and
that some such union exists between the Supreme Being and the
material world, as between the bodies and souls of men. This
opinion was revived and amplified in modern times, by Mr. John
Toland, in England, who was secretary and chaplain to a set of
philosophical idolaters, who held that an etherial fire surrounds
all things ; rules, revives and disposes them. They therefore
professed the worship of all Nature. Vanini, an Italian, appears
to have imbibed a similar opinion. His god was Nature. P«w-
theism appears to be a modern term.
§ 11. One more view remains to be taken of the opinions of
all nations, respecting the Divinity. Every nation, and every
tribe under the sun, have had ideas respecting the existence of
spirits of some kind, either good or bad, or of both good and
bad. Those who only acknowledged the existence of evil spirits,
were mostly such as were evil themselves, who had evil compan-
ions, who had ill success in hunting and fishing, who had more
noticed clouds than sunshine, and hurricanes than vernal pleasant
316 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
breezes. Like the savage, who was speaking of a certain place
which was noted for thunder, hghtning, tempest, and scarcity, he
said that there was no good spirit there—there the good Lord did
not rule. The ideas of mankind, and of the wisest philosophers
which the world has ever known, have elevated the attributes of
the Deity, in proportion to the altitude of their own conceptions ;
and on the other hand, the ignorant savage,
•*
Sees God in storms, and hears him in the wind ;"
and by all, afflictions were seldom forgotten, and mercies seldom
remembered.
§ 12. We are loth to find any thing amiss in the writings of
so good a man, and so good a writer, as was Mr. Locke. Still,
we have viewed his denial of innate ideas, taken in connection
with his derivation of all our ideas fi-om external objects, by
means of the senses, as savouring of atheism ; for what is that
substantial, external, sensible thing, which gives us the idea of
the Divinity, and of his Spirituality ? and why, if all our ideas
are derived from the senses, and why, as the senses are alike, or
similar in all the human race, are not our ideas and opinions also,
all alike, or equally alike t This is a question which we have
never heard as yet satisfactorily answered. If all ideas are deri-
ved from sensation^ all ideas, in difierent individuals, ought to be
as similar as are their senses and sensations.
§ 13. Spinozism does not materially differ from Pantheism.
Spinoza was born a Jew, at Amsterdam, in 1632. He was a ma-
terialist, in the fullest sense of the word. He held that God is an
infinitely perfect Being, that he was the cause of all things that
exist, but still, that the world, and all things in existence, consti-
tuted God—that there is but one Being, and one Nature, and that
that Being is both agent and patient, spirit and matter, and that
he produces nothing but modifications of himself—the whole
world, man, and the souls of men, all are parts of the Divinity,
endowed, however, with an infinite variety of attributes, such ag
extension, cogitation, locomotion, growth, and decay, but not an-
nihilation ; and that there is only one substance in the universe
—
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 317
that this substance, this universe, is one and the same Being, and
no other than the Eternal God.
This goes to the exclusion of any such beings as spirits, it de-
nies the Scripture doctrine of the devil and his angels, and makes
the Deity the sole author of all evil, both physical and moral. It
appears to be a doctrine full of absurdities, Atheistical, and im-
pure, and too glaringly erroneous to require much time spent in
its refutation. It makes the Divinity, when at the fall of man, he
cursed the world, to curse himself! and this very thing has so
forcibly struck us, as in our minds to be an ample and sufficient
mark of its abominable wickedness.
CHAPTER IX.
LIFE. HEALTH. DEATH. THE SOUL. SUDDExV DEATH OF A BEAUTY*
§ I. Life, is living matter in motion. Health, is the regular,
placid, pleasurable, motion of life. Disease, is an irregular and
perturbed, and painful movement of some one part, or of the
whole bodilj or mental organs. Death, is the cessation of all
motion, healthy and diseased.
The specific actions of life, are those of the brain, blood, heart,
lungs, nerves, muscles, fibres, and viscera. Upon these depend
the senses, and the secretions, as well as the excretions.
The secretion of bile, is a slow motion. The secretion of
tears is a quicker motion, and the secretion of a blush upon a
lady's cheek, is an instantaneous motion.
The higher classes of animals, like man, have sensation and
passion. Seeing, hearing, feeling, tasting, and smelling, affec-
tion, natural affection, anger, joy and grief, are common proper-
ties, inherited by all ; so is self preservation, which is a perpetual
motion, so long as life and wakefulness continue ; but they all
end for a time in sleep, in which state many of the accompani-
ments of life are suspended ; but even in that state, breathing, the
motion of the heart, and the circulation of the blood, continue.
Life more immediately depends upon two fluids, which are air
and blood ; yet persons die, when surrounded with pure air, and
when full of good blood. If the motion of the proper organs
cease to move these vital fluids, death ensues. Life must there-
fore, be defined to be living matter in motion, and death the ces-
sation of all motion.
§ 2. A man that does not sleep well, must stop his clock, and
let his watch run down. Sleep defies all rigid rules. It is lost by
being too much courted, like some fair faces. He who is inclined
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 319
to sleep too much, must go to bed late and rise early, and keep his
time pieces in motion, as they tend to produce watching, because
they are watched.
The separate state of the soul, is a state of conscious exist-
ence. It is life independent of all the bodily organs. In the
present state of existence, the soul loses its consciousness during
sleep, but in its separate state, whether it ever sleeps or not, we
have no data to form conclusions from, except that the Saviour
slept whilst on earth.
§ 3. The word soul, in the Bible, appears sometimes to be
used for both bodi/ and soul ; as where we are told that the soul
that sinneth it shall die, and when we are told of Noah and his
family, that eight souls were saved by water. We also read that
" they have given their pleasant things for meat to relieve the
soul," and that " they sought their meat to relieve their souls.'^
" Say that the weary flesh the willing soul delays,"
is a pretty line from Petrarch, and corresponds with a sentiment
from an infinitely higher source, that '*the spirit indeed is willing,
but the flesh is weak."
The word heart, appears sometimes to be used to denote the
soul, or thinking part, as where we read of man, " that every
imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil contin-
ually."
§ 4. A proof of the immateriality and immortality of the
soul, may be derived from the consideration that its intrinsic at-
tributes, such as ideas, recollection, judgment, imagination, and
memory, are immaterial. Now we know of nothing which de-
cays, except it be some kind or other of matter. No immaterial
thing decays. We do not know, however, that all kinds of mat-
ter decay, and we have reason to think that air does not, and
certainly it never turns to dust. It has been, perhaps, rather too
hastily concluded that both Moses and Job, make the soul to con-
sist of air, or breath. It is true that the former says, " the Lord
God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into hia
nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living «ouh" But
320 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
we should only infer from this, that tlie word soul, is used here,
as it is elsewhere, for the whole corporeal and spiritual man,
conjoined, and that it does not decide that the breath alone is
the soul, any more than it decides that the breath alone is the
body. We cannot prove any position, nor establish any fact,
from the Bible, by quoting a passage or passages from it, which
does not relate to the subject ; nor ought we ever to attempt to
prove any doctrine from obscure texts, against the decision of
those which are plain and perspicuous, and easy to be understood.
We have seen attempts of this kind which have struck us with
horror, and which have compelled us to the conclusion, that we
were reading the works of dishonest, and unprincipled sectarians,
who would make difficult texts mean just what they pleased, and
never once appeal to others, which undeniably decided against
their dogmas and dogmatism. We have indeed seen treatises of
this kind, founded upon certain passages of the epistles of Paul,
which attempted to estabhsh doctrines which that Apostle said
not a single word about, b^it which were spoken of explicitly in
the Evangelists, which they did not quote, because they decided
positively and unequivocally against them ; and even the other
writings of Paul, were equally plain, and in agreement with the
Gospels, whereas, the texts selected by these writers had no bear-
ing upon the ordinances which they were aiming to establish. We
cannot express our contempt for such barefaced dishonesty, and
therefore will not attempt it. But we have already in another
place, treated upon these subjects, and therefore, shall here be
brief.
§ 5. The picture presented to view by these writers was, not
merely allegorical—it was no attempt of the kind. It was no
parable nor parody. It was that of taking certain passages of
Scripture, whose meaning was not very apparent, and upon the
interpretation of which, the best commentators, and the soundest
divines, have differed, and saying that they meant that which they
did not express, nor even imply ; and then building doctrines
upon them in direct contrariety to the plainest expressions in the
Bible. These remarks, however, are not meant to apply to the
expressions used in Scripture, respecting the soul, which werdj
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 321
in different parts of the Bible, has shades of different meaning,
and is so used, by the sacred writers, that men may honestly and
conscientiously differ respecting it, and them. The words of Job,
which have been referred to, respecting the soul, as coinciding
with those used by Moses, are these ;
" the spirit of God is in my
nostrils." But it may well be questioned, whether these words
import any thing more than a general superintendance and sup-
port by providence of life, wliilst the body exists, and a reference
to Its fleeting and transitory state, and to the spirit's returning to
God who gave it, when life ends.
§ 6. Our great lexicographer, Noah Webster, makes the soul
in Scripture, to signify appetite^ and refers to Proverbs xxvii. in
proof of this. It is said in that chapter, that " the full soul
loatheth an honey-comb ; but to the hungry soul every bitter
thing is sweet." We do- not here find, therefore, as Mr. Webster
assumes, that soul and appetite are used as synonyms, but only
that the latter is made to be an attribute of the former. Soul is
here used as in many other places, for man himself. The active,
thinking, desiring, craving, and loathing part of man, is made to
stand for the sum total of his being, and called his soul.
§ 7. Those who make the soul to consist in the breath, may
refer to what we are told, that God breathed into man the breath
of life, and he became a living soul. But this would not reach
the case of the unborn infant, which has life, but never has breath-
ed. Josephus speaks of a spirit and a soul, and gives as a reason
why Moses forbade blood to be eaten, (the blood of animals,) that
he esteemed it to contain the soul and spirit.* He thus evidently
understood Moses, as teaching that the brute creation had souls.
In this way, therefore, may the unborn infant be endowed with a
soul, as it has red blood, and life, although it never has breathed.
It is worthy of a passing notice, that Adam had his name from
the red earth of which he was formed, and that all nations have
red blood, let their skins be of whatever color they may. Red
earth is, according to Josephus, earth of the purest kind. The
red color of the blood, has been supposed by physiologists, to de-
* Book III. Chap. xi. Sec. 2, of Josephus,
28
322 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
pend upon the iron which it contains ; and they have calculated
that the blood of forty men, contains iron enough to make a
ploughshare.
But it would not appear by the Bible, nor by Josephus, that an
unborn infant, if it was destroyed by an injury done to the
mother, was considered any thing more than a misdemeanor,
which was to be atoned for by such a fine, or the payment of such
a sum, to the husband, as the judges should direct ; and that it
was not considered as murder, unless the woman was so injured
that she died herself, in which case the aggressor was to be capi-
tally punished.*
This would go to prove, that a child before it was born, or
breathed the breath of life, was not considered a living soul ; and
so far this matter can be investigated upon paramount principles,
and not much further. Moses, Job, and Josephus, seem here to
agree. It is remarkable that Josephus, although he agrees with
the Bible, with respect to its not being a capital offence for another
person to produce abortion, yet if a woman produced abortion in
herself, he understood the law of Moses, as making it a capital
crime.
§ 8. We find a notice in our manuscript journal, of a woman
who first turned poet upon her death bed ; and of a young w^oman
who first shewed a taste for music in the same critical situation ;
and it is not very uncommon for predictions or prophecies to be
uttered in the dying hour. We once attended a gentleman, an
attorney by profession, who was said to have predicted the hour at
which he should die, which took place according to his predic-
tion. It was made during his illness.
Dr. Rush, mentions a clergyman who swore just before his
death. Dr. Priestly, and Dr. William Hunter, are said to have
died singing or laughing.
Life will continue longest in those parts least affected with
disease ; hence, when the head is not diseased, thought and hear-
ing may continue after the pulse and breathing cease. We have
seen a man play with an infant, and smile when dying ; and two
* Exod. xxi. 22, 23. Josephus, Ant. p. 138. B. V. C. viii.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 323
Others, who joked with their attendants, and laughed in the same
solemn hour.
The gloomy and contracted look about the forehead, in those
recently dead, may be owing to some sparks of life still remain-
ing. We noticed this in a man who had been a member of the
legislature of the state in which he lived, but who died by hang-
ing himself. The corpse of such persons loses the frown and
becomes pleasant, after such a while as life is entirely at an end
in the fibres and muscles.
The New England troops in the last war, were said to have
suffered as do the Swiss, that is, from home sickness. The Vir-
ginia troops suffered from being deprived of their accustomed
diet, and longed for hams and hominy. The Irish soldiers suf-
fered nothing, their home sickness consisting of being sick of
home ; they were perfectly contented abroad.
§ 9. When diseases are caused by intemperance in eating, by
secret drinking, by guilt, by the prospect of bankruptcy, or by
love, the patient will not reveal to his physician what the matter
is ; and if he cannot establish an opinion by his own sagacity, he
must make confidential inquiries of the sick man's friends.
Great intemperance may be called temperance by some, hence
the physicfan should try to ascertain the quantity of strong drink
which his patient is in the habit of taking, or has heretofore con-
sumed.
Cicero remarks, that there never was an error so great, or so
absurd, which did not find its supporters and adherents ; and we
see the truth of this remark, evinced in animal magnetism,
Thompsonianism and vegetable diet.
A sick man is seldom or never a wise man, and foolish physi-
cians sometimes succeed best, by silly speeches and absurd pre-
scriptions, which suit the sickly notions of his patient.
Hope is invigorated by discovering that well persons, and espe-
cially physicians, think as he does who is sick. A healthy wis-
dom, and a cheerful countenance, cannot always be borne by the
patient. However wise he may be when well, the sick man, is
not, we repeat, a wise man ; and as fools rush in, where angels
fear to tread, unless a wise physician has been chosen in health,
a foolish one will be selected in sickness.
324 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Improvements and progress in knowledge, with some, consist
entirely in new names ; and as fools in this world, beat the wise
in the number of names, they ever have hitherto ruled it. It is
true, however, that they often fare as did the patients of Celsus,
who when they would not be guided by reason, in the important
matter of abstinence, were allowed to eat, but immediately had
an emetic given them, to unload their stomachs.
§ 10. But emetics were one of the Roman luxuries. The
Roman epicures used to throw up what they had eaten in order
to eat again. Emetics are useful but disagreeable remedies.
The evil must be endured, that the good may succeed ;
just as
the labour of ploughing and spading, and hoeing a garden, must
be borne, that fruits and flowers may reward the toiler. Divines
teach us that we must by a course of trial, agony, and self denial,
reach heaven, if we reach it at all, and that we cannot get there
on downy beds of ease.
It is one of the links in the chain of human nature, that those
exciting causes which produce sickness and death in some, pro-
duce health and vigor in others. We are thus bound to the world
by a golden chain, one end of which is in the grave, and the other
end in heaven. In the time of plague and yellow fever, some
weakly persons have the best health.
"Why do w^e yawn, why do we sneeze, why do we cough, why
do we sleep, why do we sweat, why do we weep 1 These natu-
ral remedial propensities, may prevent asthma, consumption, gout,
apoplexy, and death. Slight aberrations from high health, and
from wakeful vigor, procrastinate severe diseases, and even death
itself. We die nightly, that we may live daily. Sleep, is to all
imaginable purposes, death, so long as it lasts. If we even think
in sleep, we think incorrectly, for there never was yet a correct
dream, ever known in all its bearings and relations, of which we
have had any account from any person living. We do not, of
course, include those impressions to which the Bible refers, made
on the mind by divine agency, in our definition of common
dreams. These we leave out of the question. We mean that
dreams cannot be put in competition with the waking faculties of
reason, judgment, discretion, and experience; all which they
ought to supersede, if they were inspirations divine !
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 325
THE SUDDEN DEATH OF A BEAUTY.
Ah ! many an hour that haunting face,
Will seem like all that's bright,
To occupy its former place,
And gladden and delight.
Her forehead crowned with auburn hair,
Than carded silk more fine.
Her step, her laugh, her cheerful air,
Would round the heart entwine.
The poetry of all her sex,
Seemed centered in her mien,
A goddess nymph it would perplex,
To find so fair a queen.
The show of languor, sickness, pain,
Her movements seemed to mock.
They spoke that tombs were made in vain.
That shrouds could never shock.
But death with all its horrors came,
And gave a wrench from life ;
Her heart-strings broke, down fell her frame.
Nor sickness held a strife.
A sudden death ! to startle all
!
No warning, no delay
;
As stars from highest heavens fall.
Life rushed, and left her clay.
We could not realize the truth,
Although before us dead.
Lay spirit, beauty, wit, and youth.
So soon their soul had fied.
But when we heard her tolling bell,
Our agonies struck deep
;
The tears in countless numbers fell.
Our eyes seemed blood to weep.
The temple now most solemn sounds.
Each life-breath bears a knell,
The heavenward spire, the woodland bounds,
The thrilling tidings tell.
28*
326 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Her life on earth, is now a name,
A name that thought will raise,
And with it bring that fairy frame,
That nought on earth displays.
Her graceful speech, her angel smile,
Will on our fancy beam,
And friendship strive, and many a while,
To make her death a dream
.
As sunbeams o'er the vast inane,
Leave night without a ray,
Death broke the links of life in twain,
And soulless left her clay.
Her form, her hand, her brow, her eyes,
Twin cherry lips and cheeks.
Her voice melodious as the skies.
When May of summer speaks,
Have gone ; and she to heaven, to tell
How death disrobed them all,
How she had passed her passing bell.
And lain beneath her pall.
But happier scenes we trust await
That sudden change of thine,
Though friends may mourn thy frowning fate,
Thou will not with them join.
Strange shrinking terrors come by death.
The rose and lily yield;
It frosts the blood, and stops the breath.
With horrors unrevealed.
The greatest sermon ever preached.
Fell not upon the ear
;
No sound that organ ever reached.
So solemn as this here.
CHAPTER X
THEOLOGY, ETHICS, DIET, DRESS, DRINKS, AND DISEASES. HEAT
AND COLD. ALCOHOL. EXERCISE. FAMINE. PRIESTLEY. JOHN-
SON. JOSEPHUS. BISHOP BEVERIDGE. TRANCES. RESUSCITA-
TION.
§ 1. Did not the experience of mankind go to prove that mise-
ry is the result of crime, vice would go on spreading and swelling,
and elevating itself to universal empire. For it is a fact, that no
one is virtuous of choice, and that all are vicious without some
kind of compulsion to drive them in to virtue's ranks. We
have been surprised that even some, or perhaps all, savage na-
tions, have no laws, on account of this universal extension of vice,
to punish it. But they have a more appalling remedy than laws
;
private and summary revenge, often ending in assassination and
murder. A strong man will let go his hold of a mouse, rather
than receive the immediate infliction of a wound by its bite.
The state of the savages is like that of most of the ancient na-
tions of the world ; for Josephus tells us, that no ancient nation
had any code of laws but the Jews ! all being governed by the
will of their kings, generals, or governors, except the Jews.
Were it not that a well known train of evils, physical, and moral,
and personal, await the wine-bibber, who would refrain the spark-
ling glass? Righteousness is a duty which a man owes to his
own soul, justice is one which he owes to his neighbor, mercy to
his beast, and temperance to his own health and character. All
these duties were so much neglected by the uncivilized nations of
antiquity, and such a train of immoralities perpetrated in their
place, that the same word is used in the Gospel for a sinner, a
328 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
heathen, and a gentile.* Where there is a general combination
in favor of vice and stupidity, such men as were our Washington,
and Franklin, pass the world undistinguished.
§ 2. Philosophy and recklessness have some things in com-
mon, but from very different motives. Neither pay much regard to
misfortunes. And as it is those who keep their wants and disas-
ters to themselves, who stand the best chance to have them alle-
viated, they again m this respect have a kind of unnatural coinci-
dence. He is most apt to have the offer of the loan of money,
who has not told that he is in need of it. And the spendthrift who
has but a single shilling left in his pocket, talks the loudest about
profusion.
§ 3. It is not easy to disprove the testimony of a single wit-
ness to an incredible story, but when a number combine, to tell a
lying wonder, it is a hundred to one, if they are not detected, by
being found to disagree. Hence the Italian quack, at Constanti-
nople, who sent his patient about the city to swear that the doc-
tor had taken out his liver, removed its diseases, and then put it
back again, was in no danger of not having a crowd at his heels.
Some people's eyes appear only to be made for the purpose of
espying wonders, and their tongues for relating them. We may
travel all day with one of these heroes, and upon stopping at an
inn for the night, ourselves will be made to stare as much as any
of the inmates, at the recital of what passed before our own eyes,
but of which we saw nothing at all. There is no bosom so fair as
imagination paints, nor no events so marvelous as those which
fancy and fiction conjure up.
§ 4. The study of personal virtue and vice, has usually ended
like lawsuits, by the conviction that each party had something to
praise and something to blame. We seldom find a character so
excellent as to not have a dark spot ; as the rainbow, with its
beautiful stripes, is still seated on a cloud. Those therefore are
most popular and most wise, who do not deal largely in either
praise or blame ; experience having taught, that those who are
* Adam Clarke, on Mat. ix. 10.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 329
censured become active enemies, whilst those who are praised re-
main but passive friends. The memory of a jest or an injury is
retained, whilst a benefit is forgotten. A wit has always therefore
to fear a person with a memory.
§ 5. Virtue and vice do exist sometimes in excess ; but it is
reasoning from particulars to generals, which is bad logic, to con-
clude, and to act, as though this was true, upon a large, or com-
mon scale. True friendship has ^leither its hot nor cold fits, but
like the blood of life, it flows in a current steady and uniform.
Like a string of diamonds, it must not be held too loosely, for fear
that it will drop from the hand, nor drawn too tight, lest it be
broken asunder and the diamonds scattered.
§ 6. It is a curious fact in the history of regions, that where
nature has shed her bounties with the most profusion, that the
inhabitants present most instances of insanity, bankruptcy, and
hypochondriacism. It is there that the estates of persons deceas-
ed are represented insolvent. A gentleman noticing this fact, in
the advertisements in a newspaper, of a certain town, concluded,
as he told the present writer, that it must be the poorest town in
the state ; but business calling him into it, he found it one of the
richest.
Some countries seem destined to the production of the vegeta-
ble creation in the greatest perfection. In some parts of South
America, esculent roots, which are elsewhere only cultivated in
gardens, grow spontaneously for leagues together, where they are
food for cattle.
Other regions develope the corporeal frame exuberantly, but
leave the mind in the rear ; as Germany, which as long ago as
near two thousand years, was by Julius Caesar observed, as hav-
ing men of large bodies, and slow minds. Italy again presents
a race with acute minds, but of small bodies. There, music,
poetry, statuary, and painting, are in perfection. And the greatest
discovery ever made, was owing to one of her inhabitants, Colum-
bus, who discovered America.
Italy is, however, a country of contrasts ; of palaces and huts,
princes and beggars, of sanctity and trifling, of humility and vani-
330 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
ty, of religion and immorality ; a race who are careful to have
their old sins pardoned, that they may go and commit new ones
with lighter hearts.
Perhaps the same region, however different in religion and the
government, have in all ages, some marks of resemhlance. When
the external marks of sanctity are cont^idered, in modern Rome,
it must remind us of what has been said of the ancient Roman
emperors ; that they thought they could not have too many gods,
nor too little religion. The pt-esent race think that they cannot
have too many religious rites, or too little morality.
§ 7. It is a trait of almost all who have written upon modern
Theology, to make bold and broad assertions, and to support
them with feeble, insufficient facts, and proofs, and arguments ;
evidently expecting that their subject was to stand for every thing,
whether it was treated with ability, mediocrity, or imbecility.
Such writers never ought to touch a pen, and it should be an in-
dictable offence to sell them a sheet of paper. They have done
religion injuries unbounded, and incalculable. Let no sermons
nor commentaries meet the public eye from palsied and paltering
hands. Religion can do much better without than with them. It
stands strong of itself, and can only be made to tremble in the eyes
of weak persons, who see it touched with hands trembling with
the palsy.
A man who supposes that his assertions are to stand for proofs,
only because he wears a black coat, will, in these days, find him-
self miserably mistaken.
Dr. Priestly, although a man of science, appears to have been
one of those bold asserters and feeble provers ; his substitute for
proofs, being repeated modes of misunderstanding his opponents.
We have known something of these unfair and provoking usur-
pers of the black, who would cavel at the plainest text in the Bible,
if quoted by an antagonist. Those who cannot feel the weight
of an argument, never produce arguments which have any weight
themselves. And those who use hypercritical remarks when talk-
ing about the Bible, are hypocrites themselves.
§ 8. " There is no unmixed happiness in any state of life, but
no one wishes to be perpetually told so." Those days which are
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 331
passed without sin or sorrow, may stand as samples of human
life, which are not to be lamented. As slowness of recovery from
sickness sometimes argues well for the continuance of future
health, so slowness of maturity in talents, provided there is a
gradual increase in knowledge, is most likely to ensure a high
degree of brilliancy.
§ 9. The greatest and most profound writer that Europe has
ever yet produced, was Samuel Johnson, but he had no precocity
of talents, unless we admit his epitaph on the duck to be genuine.
And this, on the whole, we feel rather inclined to do, and to place
it among those scintillations of future eminence, which occasion-
ally appear in individuals at an early age, but which disappear for
an indefinite space, to be revived again, or not revived at all, as
Here lies good master duck,
That Samuel Johnson trod on ;
Had it lived 'twould have been good luck,
For it was an odd one.
This is said to have been composed by him at the age of four
years, in consequence of his having killed a young duck, out of
a progeny of thirteen, by accidentally treading upon it.
The elevation and excellency of human minds, are sometimes
shown as forcibly by what they select, admire, and praise, in
others, as by what they invent themselves. Had Dr. Johnson
never given evidence of his talents in any other way than by
pointing out what is worthy of praise and imitation in writers
moral, religious, and instructive, the high order of his mind would
be abundantly evident. He observed of Thomas a'Kempis, that
his book must be a good one, since the world with open arms had
so generally received it. Be not angry that you cannot make
others as you wish them to be :
—This is a sentiment from that
work, reiterated by Johnson, and what higher authority can be
desired, in proof of its excellence ?
Dr. Beattie, from Dr. Johnson's devotional diary, entitled by
Dr. Johnson, his prayers and meditations, set down as a most
extraordinary incongruity, his recording upon what he dined.
332 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Thus, " N. B. I dined to day on herrings and potatoes." This
is Dr. Johnson's note. But it is no such extraordinary incongrui-
ty as Dr. Beattie seems to suppose, to thank God for such a din-
ner ; a dinner to be sure not the very best, but yet such an one as
Ireland and Scotland do not always afford to its suffering popula-
tion. Besides, Dr. Johnson elsewhere observed, that he who did
not care for what he eat, would not care for any thing.
The Greek adage was, I hate a bottle companion with a memo-
ry. Proud people would no doubt hate a dinner companion, who
remembered that he had dined with them upon an inferior dish.
But it well became a book of devotional exercises, to display its
authors humility in living, as well as in other respects.
§ 10. When men are in perplexity, when the land is their
enemy, and the sea the same, they shun the present moment as
the greatest evil, and seek in the dark events of futurity a solace.
Hence the great anxiety to pry into future events, arises from dis-
satisfaction with regard to the affairs of the passing times being
dark and difficult.
Aristotle taught, that men of great genius were of a melancholy
turn, and refers to Socrates, Plato, and Hercules, in proof of this
opinion ; and we may refer to Dr. Johnson as one of the same
class.
§ 11. Cunning, artful men, who eke out the lion's skin and
fox's tail, are less apt to be melancholy, than the really wise.
When their power fails, they resort to stratagems, which wise men
despise. But art, stratagem, and cunning, are better calculated
to keep the world in a bustle, than sober wisdom. A constant
excitement, even if it is caused by embarrassment, keeps the spirits
alert. The talents of some persons are very peculiar, and are
never displayed, except in helping themselves out of some kind
of trouble and perplexity, into which they fall again the first con-
venient opportunity. Such persons pass through life without
learning any thing from experience. They evince some ability
by getting out of a law suit, or evading the payment of a debt, but
never by keeping clear of either debt or lawsuit.
To recompense a fool, dame fortune gives success,
But turns her back on those whom sense and merit bless.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 333
§ ]2. Ill our inquiries after universal principles, we may refer
to Dr. Johnson, who says, that there was no nation that has not
used sacrifices. Perhaps some modern travellers would be able
to adduce a few exceptions, but the vast extent of this religious
feature of our race, is as surprising as it is difficult to be account-
ed for.
We are informed by M. Denon, in his Travels in Egypt, that
the town of Antinoe, is supposed to have been built by Hadrian,
and named after Antinous a young man of his suit. The empe-
ror Hadrian having been taken sick at the place where the town
now stands, the priest of the town of Besa, which stood in the
same place, declared upon being consulted, that the patient would
die, except some one devoted himself in his place. These priests,
we are told, were then in high repute, and young Antinous, vol-
untarily offered himself a sacrifice to save his master's life.
But whence the universality of sacrifices ? Does every one, or
any one, feel in his own breast, that the death of a beast, or of
a man, could mitigate his pain or save his own life? We cannot
possibly recognise such a feeling in our own breasts.
We suspect that where this notion has arisen spontaneously,
that it must have been founded upon theory. That as the human
and brute races universally die, that it was conceived that death
was acceptable to the gods, and that when they threatened to take
the life of one person by sickness, that they would be satisfied if
another died in his room ; and that if there was at a given period,
so many deaths in the world, that it would satisfy the gods, with-
out their being particular as to individuals. An opinion prevails
in Italy, respecting fever, that there is a certain quantity of that
disease in the world and no more ; and therefore that if one per-
son sick with it can contrive to transfer it to another, that he him-
self will recover. They therefore lay bunches of flowers on the
sick, which his friends take in their hands and carry into the
streets, and give away to the unknowing passers by. These
bouquets may be called fever floivers,
§ 13. The greatest favor that we can do to others, is to do to
them that, which, in our own conceptions, would most please us
for them to do to ourselves. Upon this basis the institution of
29
334 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
sacrifices seems to be founded. A sense of obligation, a feeling
of dependence, a consciousness of our own inability, and of the
potency of superior beings, leads to acts of propitiation. But
mankind are prone to mistake, to overact, and to end in extremes.
The excess, the overdoing of what was at first reasonable, rational,
and merciful, is pushed beyond the limits of all justice and hu-
manity, and ends in the most horrid barbarity. Such was the
case and such were the acts, of those who sacrificed human be-
ings, who off'ered innocent infants, upon the altars of idols, de-
mons, and devils. Such were the Molochs and Druids of the Old
World.
Some one has said that men do not suspect faults that they do
not commit. This is very erroneous. It would be making every
man a thief, who suspected that he had had any thing stolen by
others. But the world should not be told of faults which it has
mended. There is with some an intemperate curiosity after un-
profitable knowledge, however, still remaining. It shews itself in
conveying little meaning in abundance of words, in praising, es-
teeming, and extolling every thing that is done, let it be never so
absurd, in London, or any where else, where there are a great
many houses.
We see persons whose vanity leads them to seek for examples,
and to imitate with enthusiasm, a copiousness of charity, ill be-
stowed ; a semblance of devotion, unfelt at all ; and a bodily imi-
tation of piety, which the heart knows nothing about ; all only
because they can refer to something which has been done in a
metropolis. Such persons neglect industry for teasing their neigh-
bors ; they overlook charity at home, that they may have time to
carry it abroad, where it is less needed ; and they omit judicious
exertion, for what they think intellectual contemplation.
§ 14. But some further remarks upon sacrifices occur to us
here, in relation to that curious propensity in man, respecting
vicarious suftering. This may in part have originated from ob-
serving that fevers and other diseases, are sometimes contagious,
and thus inferring that sins were transferable., like diseases. Lord
Byron mentions a custom, by way of cautioning travellers from
receiving bouquets from strangers in Italy. \Ve do not adopt
the hypothesis that fever can be thus communicated, as the Ital-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 335
ians think it can, by a bunch of flowers, and as Lord Byron
seems to admit, and have only mentioned the subject to illustrate
the obscure one of sacrifices.
Moses was learned in all the knowledge of the Egyptians, and
as this nation used sacrifices, the inference may have been drawn
that he derived them from Egypt ; but they were used long ante-
rior to Moses, and the Egyptians ; for the first religious acts upon
record since the creation, and by the first-born of the first created
pair were acts of sacrifice. And what is not a little curious is,
that they appear by the Bible, and by Josephus, to have been
spontaneous and voluntary acts, entered upon by Cain and Abel,
without any previous command ! Upon this first religious act, of
the two first born of all the human race, were all the ancient reli-
gions founded.
SoAME Jenyns, in his Internal view of the Evidences of the
Christian Religion, notices this mark and basis of all ancient reli-
gions, and from it deduces the propriety and necessity of a sacri-
fice, offered once for all, as a part of the new dispensation. We
did, we must confess, feel some surprise at finding the incarnation
identified with a custom adopted by savage nations, and by some
of them so barbarously carried into practice ; although, we es-
teem Mr. Jenyns as a first rate writer upon Christianity. The
abuse of a thing, we are however aware, is no argument against its
proper use. And as to the antiquity and almost universal adop-
tion of sacrifices, they are fully established by historians, both
sacred and profane.
Josephus speaks of sacrifices other than those which were usu-
ally offered, which were appointed for the escaping of distem-
pers,* but he gives no reasons, nor no conjectures, why sacrifices
were instituted at first. A great and important work which he
promised, in which the reasons for the Jewish laws, institutions,
and ceremonies were all to be given, was never published by him,
or never has come down to us—a deprivation which we cannot
but feel with deep regret ; as his learning, his philosophical turn of
mind, and his intimate acquaintance with the secret customs and
opinions of his nation, would have made such a disquisition in-
valuable. He would probably have given in that work, some
* Antiq. B. 2, Chap. IX.
336 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
further account of the pillar of salt, into which Lot's wife was
changed, and which he tells us he had seen ;* as why it had last-
ed so long, and where it was located, and whether, as Ireneeus
states in the next centurj, it retained all the members of a human
body entire.
§ 15. Josephus was one of the most liberal minded Jews, of
whom we have any account ; for when certain others of his na-
tion were for using compulsion, and for circumcising certain
strangers who came to reside amongst them, by force, he would
not permit it. And it was on this occasion that he made that re-
markable speech, very remarkable indeed, for the times in which he
lived, and considering the nation to which he belonged. It was,
that " Every man ought to worship God according to his own in-
clinations, and not to be constrained by force ; and that these
men, who had fled to us for protection, ought not to be so treated
as to repent of their coming hither."t His liberality of sentiment
appears in his views of the meaning of certain parts of the Bible.
He says, for instance, " Let no one blaspheme those gods which
other cities esteem such ; nor may any one steal what belongs to
strange temples, nor take away the gifts that are dedicated to any
god."| This was true toleration and liberality.
§ 16. Theological writers have differed in opinion, whether
the miseries of human life ought, or ought not, to be imputed to
Adam and Eve, and the serpent who led them into temptation.
This question is not in reality of so much consequence as it has
been made, and as it at first seems to be. That pain, disasters,
and calamities, are endured, is undeniable ; nor are they either in-
creased or mitigated, by being referred to Adam, or to any other
cause.
Could the evils of life be lessened by referring them to their
true source, the most laborious scrutiny ought to be instituted to
discover it. But no one ever did, or ever will make such an as-
sertion ; and if he did, it would be entirely destitute of truth or
probability. The mode of decision is, therefore, of very trifling
* Antiq. B. 1, Chap. XL + Life, S. 23, p. 137.
t Antiq. B. 2, Chap. VIIL S. 10, founded on Exodus XXII, 28.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 337
consequence. The most difficult point to be decided, and the
most of all others unaccountable, is, why the brute creation is
subjected to pain and suffering. Now although a theory which
could solve satisfactorily this perplexity, would be received with
satisfaction, still, it is evident, that it would do nothing towards
mitigating those miseries of animals, which often are so affecting
and touching to sensibility. This subject is not then worth inves-
tigating ; nor do we feel disposed to say much upon its bearings
upon another important matter ; although we cannot but admire
at the long and numerous treatises entered into in order to prove
that suffering and death are the consequences of sin alone, when
animals suffer both, without being accounted sinners. All sin,
suffering and death, having been introduced into the world by
Adam, would go to prove that animals either sin, or that they do
not suffer, or that they are his descendants ; but neither of the
three, ever has or ever will be affirmed. Disputing about the
doctrine of original sin, is, therefore, a very useless subject of
debate, notwithstanding that it has been made a very voluminous
one.
§ 17. Sins, vices, crimes, and misdemeanors, are the subjects
which theology, ethics and jurisprudence, would prevent, if they
could ; but when prevention cannot be had, punishment must
ensue. He cannot, nor ought he to pass for a good member of
society, who promulgates opinions derogatory to either of these,
or who lifts his hand in prevention. W,e therefore, with caution,
would advert to some opinions, which in our view are erroneous,
because they stand so intimately connected with others which are
praiseworthy, and unexceptionable.
What is said by Josephus, respecting blaspheming those gods
which others esteem such, can never be adduced against faith in
one only true God, but it may, and ought to have a tendency to
prevent one Christian sect from reviling or contemptuously ex-
pressing itself about the tenets of another. We know that this is
often done only in order to its effects upon what is supposed to be
an erroneous principle ; but it often so happens, that the censure
is applied to those that are free from the errors imputed to them.
By shaking a superstructure too harshly, the foundation itself
•29*
338 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
may be made to totter. By attempting only to root out the tares,
the wheat may be trampled. It is best, therefore, to follow a good
example, and to respect an excellent precept, rather than by aim-
ing at what maybe erroneously called perfection, to hazard every
thing.
§ 18. It is true morality ; it is indeed the only method of in-
suring excellence, a safe and a permanent abode on earth, to
award the meed of praise to whatever, and to whoever is praise-
worthy, let the emanation come from whatever source or quarter
it may. It is by a contrary conduct, it is by elevating what has
no intrinsic value, only because it comes from our sect, or our
party, and by depressing what is truly estimable, when it eman-
ates from any other origin, that the progress of improvement has
been retarded.
Whether sermon, oration, pamphlet, newspaper or speech,
affords an excellent sentiment or sentence, it ought not to be over-
looked, let its author be of whatever denomination he may.
Whenever every thing is said, in relation to any point that can be
said with propriety, when there is no redundancy, nor no ambi-
guity, nor no deficiency, nor monotony, it amounts to perfection,
at least so far as man can perceive, or mortals penetrate.
The following from Bishop Beveridge, appears to approach, if
not to reach this point. I am. " He doth not say, / am their
light, their life, their guide, their strength, or tower, but only
' I AM.' He sets as it wore his hand to a blank, that his people
may write under it what they please that is good for them. As
if he should siy, Are they weak? lam strength. Are they
poor 1 I am riches. Are they in trouble ? I am comfort. Are
they sick"? lam health. Are they dying? I amWie. Have
they nothing ] I am all things. lam wisdom and power. / am
justice and mercy. / am grace and goodness. / am glory,
beauty, holiness, eminency, super-eminency, perfection, all-suffi-
ciency, eternity. Jehovah, / am. Whatsoever is suitable to
their nature, or convenient for them in their several conditions,
that / am. Whatsoever is amiable in itself, or desirable unto
them, that / am. Whatsoever is pure and holy ; whatsoever is
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 339
great or pleasant ; whatsoever is good or needful to make men
happy, that / am."*
§ 19. It is the taste of the people, which alone is competent
to compel authors and writers to deal them out excellent senti-
ments, in fine style. If these ; if the editors of newspapers and
other periodicals, find that the towns people will be satisfied with
husks, they will feed them upon nothing else. Novel-writers,
and the manufacturers of tales and stories, have done as Addison
did in the Spectator, with respect to the fair sex, exhausted the
subject. Lord Chesterfield observed, that a good joke makes us
laugh, but that a bad one makes us laugh still more. This dis-
covery seems to have been pretty highly appreciated by certain
writers, both at home and abroad, by their great number of bad
jokes. With a bad heart and a bad book, a state of war is better
than a state of peace.
§ 20. It has been said that all is fair in politics ; and although
it might be difficult to mantain such an opinion, in the abstract,
yet a good eflfect would ensue amongst friends, to take such a
view of the subject; there being no subject that is so apt to mar
friendship, as political discussions. It would be, therefore, best
for friends, to either avoid politics entirely, or to consider all fair
that relates to them, which would do away all harsh and acrimo-
nious feelings. But politicians, perhaps, know their own inter-
ests better than we can tell them. Addison describes a peaceable
lawyer, as eating once a day, and dancing once a year ;t and
politicians would probably consider themselves in the same pre-
dicament, were they to follow peace with all men.
Dr. Franklin seemed to think that vast discoveries were likely
to be made in physical science, with which moral science would
not keep pace. He even anticipated, in his fervid imagination,
that the time would come, when all diseases might be cured, and
life prolonged to the antediluvian age, and even at pleasure, which
would embrace of course, the cure of what is now called old
age.|
* Hee the word Am, in that excellent work, Richardson's Dictionary.
t Spectator, No. 21.
X See his letter to Dr. Priestly.
340 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
§ 21. We were amused with a new method for the cure of
fever, which we somewhere saw, invented by the patient himself.
This patient was Frederick Augustus, nephew to Frederick the
Great, king of Prussia ; who being seized with a violent fever,
from which he suspected that his recovery might be long, if it did
not carry him off, put his plan in practice upon himself, as it be-
hoves every one to do, who is inclined to make a doubtful experi-
ment, in which life is concerned. Whether when this method is
adopted, it will be one of the modes of lengthening life, and of
realizing Franklin's surmise, we cannot tell; we not having had
a call as yet, although we have had a great many patients with
fevers, in which we saw fit to adopt it.
The idea of the young prince of Prussia was, that if he could,
by laughing, produce a free perspiration upon himself, that he
should recover. To bring this about, he purchased as many
copies of a pathetic German tragedy, as the play contained char-
acters. He distributed to his servants the character that each was
to act in the copy which was put into his hands. Among these
servants were some who could scarce read at all. The blunders,
the awkwardness, and the distress of these new actors, notwith-
standing the pain he was in, caused him to laugh so immoderate-
ly, that a copious sweat was the consequence, so that the next
day he was entirely recovered.*
§ 22. A wealthy gentleman at the South, invented a mode of
relieving his ennui, hypochondriacism, and lowness of spirits, by
changing his dress a number of times in the day. This method
was approbated by Dr. Rush, but in our view the practice might
be altered for the better. The effect calculated to relieve the
tedium, would be chiefly confined to the exercise connected with
changing the apparel. Now, our change in prescription, would
consist in advising our patient to procure a great number of fine
new dresses for his wife, and to renew them as often as the fash-
ions changed ; by which means his attention would be diverted
by the sight of his wife in her new dresses ; and a greater portion
of exercise ensured, by his purchasing them for her, as often as
the fashions changed.
* Anecdotes of Frederick the Great.
THE TONGUE OF TIME, 341
§ 23. There is no absolute certainty that a man's judgment
is bad, because it does not coincide with our own, or that his taste
is bad, because he does not admire what we think admirable ; and
yet what vast subjects of contention have these matters afforded 1
There are some points that all will at once agree in, as that a
lady's glove should be soft, and a gentleman's razor sharp ; but
after this, an endless dispute might ensue, as to what color the
former, and what weight the latter ought to be of. Such, and all
similar matters, ought to be touched as the blossom of the orange
tree departs from its native bough, and touches the grass, lightly
and without noise.
§ 24. There is as much difference between a man of letters
and an ignorant man, as there is betwixt a man that is alive, and
another that is dead. A man who knows no more about a clock,
than to tell the time of day denoted on the dial plate, would dis-
play his consummate folly, by pretending to dictate or dispute
with the mechanic who made and put together the internal ma-
chinery ;
yet we have abundance of such cavilers upon religious
matters, who dispute with as much asperity, ministers, doctors,
divines, deacons, and duties, as if they could dispute their way to
heaven, by driving them out of the direct road that leads to it.
§ 25. But if it be called an act of omnipotence, to make
men and members of one house, of one and the same identical
mind, we cannot so much wonder at the vast variety of opinions
in a town, a city, a province, or a kingdom. Even the same man,
upon the same subject, is not always of the same mind ; for as
music depends upon the chords of an instrument, which may be
tight or loose, so mind depends on matter, which in the human
frame may be in the ascendant, or in the depressive, healthy or
sickly.
§ 26. We cannot dispute ourselves into heaven, but we may
dispute so long that its gates may be shut, admittance denied, and
we ourselves thrust out, or rather kept out, in outer darkness.
It is a curious fact, and one worthy of notice by all who would
view mankind as Jews, Christians, Mahomedans, or pagans ;
342 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
who would view, in fact, the human race with or without God in
the world, that all religionists are kind to those who have no reli-
gion at all, and unkind to those who have religion, and dissent,
diifer, or disagree in the least point, with themselves. A pious
brother who is not precisely of the same creed as that of the
church to which he belongs, let him have his lamps trimmed and
burning, let him lie on his oars, let him be ready to depart this
life at a moment's warning, let him despair of distinction, of
every thing but disapprobation and disaster here. It is thus that
practical rehgion stands no chance with doctrinal.
Of the ancient philosophers, no one went over to his opponent,
although controversies were carried on so long as tongues or the
breath of life remamed.
Some professors have led the world to suspect that their good-
ness was put forth and practised as a bait, a decoy, a lure for ap-
plause, which having missed, they felt as though they had labour-
ed in vain.
§ 27. The application of water has, as to the manner in
which it is to be applied, caused most acrimonious disputes. In
Mahomedan countries, whether the fore arm, or arm from the
hand to the elbow, is to be baptized, by pouring the water from
the wrist upwards, or from the elbow downwards, has separated
Persia from the other Mahomedans, and caused bitter bickerings,
and hostile heart-burnings. In Christian countries, whether the
whole body should be immersed, or the face only be sprinkled,
has occasioned no small dissension. Controversies will be forever
continued, though no converts should ever be made. But after
all, he who is candid will admit, that there must needs be a power-
ful efficacy in that religion Avhich has done more for the ignorant
and unlearned, than the learned and the philosophic could ever
do for themselves ; and such is Christianity.
§ 2S. It would be violating the spirit of a law, not to violate
its letter in favor of great men and great villains. We ought to
imitate Buonaparte in disbelieving history, when its pages dis-
grace human nature, if we can ; but it seems to estabhsh the
position that human sacrifices were offered by many nations of
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 343
antiquity. The Phojnicians and Druids, the Gauls and Cartha-
ginians, were guihy in this respect—guilty of what Abraham
went about, but whose hand was stayed, when he went to offer up
his son Isaac. Sacred history also confirms this point, as we
read in the Bible, as follows :
" Yea, they sacrificed their sons
and their daughters unto devils." This is spoken of the ancient
inhabitants of Canaan, and of the Jews, who imitated their exam-
ples afterwards. And again it is said, " They have built also the
high places of Baal, to burn their sons with fire, /or burnt offer-
ings unto Baal, which I commanded not, nor spake it, neither
came it into my mind." Even the Greeks and Romans cannot
be fully exculpated from having occasionally offered human sacri-
fices. The sacrifices of the Romans, do not appear to have been
derived from the Jews, as the Romans did not omit offering swine,
which were prohibited by the Jewish laws.*
§ 29. Things are viewed very differently when they are seen
through the prism of happiness, or when seen when the head is
covered with ashes, and the body with sackcloth. Ambition is
ever ready to take any road which leads to preferment. It will
mask itself in the mask of piety, it will practice the most degra-
ding or cruel superstitions, it will be devout, warlike, or gallant,
as occasions require. It will pay court to the muses, to the mass,
or to Mars. In chivalrous, or feudal times, fighting for the king,
and pleasing the ladies, were two points of the utmost import-
ance. Heaven is sought and served with much ardor, and brave-
ry practised with much punctilio, when it is thought that no
cowards can get to heaven, nor be esteemed on earth.
Since the reformation, and since the invention of printing, the
movements of men have of necessity been more precise, more
analytic, more shaded with the pale cast of thought, and much
more calculated to diffuse equality of rights, and to prostrate cru-
elty and tyranny than before.
§ 30. The human mind is so constituted that it can bear only
a certain proportion of misery at once ; hence a new disaster
crowds out an old calamity ; like a hollow cylinder filled with
* See Plutarch's Life of Fabius Maximus. Lives, Vol. 2. p. 6.
344 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
balls, if a new ball is introduced at one end, it will crowd out one
at its opposite end.
§ 31. Indians, when extremely fatigued, will pick up a stick
and carry it a distance upon their shoulder, when upon throwing
it down they feel relieved, and continue their journey with less
fatigue.
§ 32. Itch has afforded relief to low spirits, by taking off the
constant contemplation of an imaginary disease, and assuaging
the fear of death. Persons have been inoculated with this erup-
tive disorder, in order to cure them of insanity.
§ 33. An invalid who was advised to go to a town where there
were a great many learned men, said he would not go, and that
he had rather be where there were no philosophers, but only such
persons as believed that the sun rolled round the earth.
A man who was cured of that kind of madness which elevates
the mind to such a pitch of importance, as to make its owner
fancy himself a king, overflowing with wealth, protested to his
physician that he had ruined him of all his comfort and enjoy-
ment by curing him.
Money, which answers such a vast variety of purposes, has
been used to hire a person into health. A gentleman cured his
wife, who was always complaining, by giving her a dollar a day
for every day that she did not complain. If she uttered any
complaint, her wages were stopped for that day.
If theatres and operas have had any good effect, it has rather
been bodily than mental. Go to the opera to digest, said Vol-
taire. Laugh and be fat, is an old adage ; and no doubt laugh-
ter has contributed to prolong life and to cure diseases.
§ 34. An ancient philosopher, after the discussion of the sub-
ject, whether brutes had reason, comes to the decision that they
had not, because they have no idea of a Deity. It seems to have
been an ancient opinion, that such an idea among mankind was
universal, which the moderns do not find verified, some nations
having no notions of a Supreme Being.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 345
§ 35. He makes a happy exchange in his condition of life,
who retires from pohtics, not to the turf^ but to the plough ; for
he will find his horses and oxen more grateful and more manage-
able, than his constituents.
Peace is located in the heart, it does not depend upon the order
of the house, nor the state of the nation. A pacific disposition is
always commendable, except when it amounts to pusilanimity.
Some people recommend books to others, of whose practical
effects on themselves, those who recommend them, shew very little
evidence. We find ourselves in fashionable circles, who make
pretensions to high intellectual standing, but who, for any thing
they exhibit, either by speech or action, might have lived in a
world where no such characters as Johnson, or Milton, or Addi-
son, or Shakspeare, ever wrote. But if omissions, commissions,
and deductions can boast of being nobly allied, they slip along the
smooth path of companionable hours, without aiming at any
higher mark.
Amongst a people who live beneath the levelling principle, the
sound is never heard of—'* Sir, you have saved a life, a character,
a country." All republicans consider themselves too much upon
an equality to admit any such superiority.
To cunning men, some plaudits may be awarded, provided the
applauder can take the praise of having made the grand discov-
ery himself, that he whom he praises, is more than any body else
has ever thought him to be. A piece of nothingness is the pro-
logue and epilogue of certain persons whose bodies are adorned,
but whose minds are as barren as the deserts of Arabia. Subtilty,
cunning, and nihility, have the same advantage as the feline sort
of animals ; throw them which way you will, they always light on
their feet.
§ 36. Those who have had health and long life, have neither
lived too sparing, nor too full, nor been overburdened with cares,
nor business, nor labor, nor yet remiss in exercise and assiduity.
It is such persons who can say to themselves as Pope Ganganelli
did to his stomach, when it inclined to be sick, that he had no
leisure to attend to it, and like his stomach their cares will leave
30
THE TONGUE OF TIME.
them in quiet. Small diseases, like small children, too much
pampered, become great troubles.
Some persons never seem to blossom, and thus display the
flowers and sweets of life. They have the bark and prickles of
shrubs outside, and the bitterness of wormwood within. From
such people it is always best to hurry off as fast as possible, for
fear of being scratched, and without speaking a word, for fear of
being contradicted.
Tempests show the face of heaven more bright, as thorns and
briers make flowers look more agreeably.
§ 37. Public spirit, patriotism, and purity of morals, are all
more apparent in the country, than in cities and capitals ; the
reason may be, that in the country property is more secure, and
attachment to a local habitation, more decided. A bleak and
barren rock, securely possessed, will be furnished with a fertile
bed of soil, and converted into a garden ; whilst Eden itself, held
only by the tenure of a lease, would become a desert. There is
more grovelling servility on the one hand, and more lawless resist-
ance on the other, in cities than in country places. Cities abound
with more desperate, unprincipled characters, than country pla-
ces, which the divine and the moralist, although more highly
gifted with talents perhaps, than those in the country, cannot re-
form. Those who think it a great misfortune to be alone, who
feel solitude irksome, and sigh for a city life, are often those very
characters, who ought to be intercepted by a sanitary cordon, as
they approach cities, and kept out, and driven away, like an in-
fectious and pestilential distemper. They are often worthless
knaves, seeking the dregs of worthlessness, as fit companions for
themselves in a city, and which they cannot find in the country.
§ 38. The air, or weather is hot, when the thermometer stands
at 83°, it is very hot at 90% and at 98° to 102° is at blood heat. It
is cold when the thermometer is at 40°, and freezing cold at 32°,
but not esteemed severely cold until the mercury sinks to zero.
In New England, and in the northern parts of New York, it
sometimes sinks to 10°, 20°, and even lower than 20° below zero.
The French and English soldiers in Egypt, were subjected to a
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 347
heat of 116°, which in them, sometimes caused a bleeding from
the lungs.^ The sudden effects of heat is the coup de soliel, or
sun-stroke, which resembles apoplexy. In China, in the year
1743, in July, many persons were destroyed by heat. Heat pro-
duces freckles, which suddenly occur, but yet, sometimes become
permanent. Colds are more to be dreaded in summer, than in
winter.
The sun, which changes the whole complexion to a darker hue,
which is called tanning, does not produce such a change upon
those, who from their business are constantly exposed to heat
;
such as blacksmiths and cooks. Heat has its greatest effects after
cold ; hence the multiplicity of conceptions in March and May.
The Russians use the warm bath, and immediately afterwards
roll themselves in snow, and the Indians practice a similar transi-
tion, and both with impunity ; but with those Indians who have
adopted the customs of the whites, it has lost its efficacy. Heat
is not considered a cause of diseases between the tropics.
Dr. Rush inclined to give credence to the opinion, that a green
Christmas makes a fat churchyard. Dampness is more to be
dreaded than extreme cold. Damp sheets, an unaired shirt, a
wet coat, and wet stockings, have cost many persons their lives.
The reason is, that the system does not react under such partial
applications ; whereas, when the whole frame is attacked by ex-
treme cold, its energies are exciied, its heating propensities in-
creased, and the mental powers stimulated, to throw it off. So
extremely at variance are things seemingly similar. A little kills,
a great deal cures, and vice versa.
It is a curious fact that children seldom complain of cold, but
are bitter sufferers by heat. We often see an infant throw out of
bed its naked arms, and throw off its bed clothes, but never do we
see it pulling on a coverlit, or putting on an extra garment, unless
it is bidden. Old people, on the contrary, are the greatest suffer-
ers by cold. The African race, also, who are natives of sandy,
sun burning regions, are great sufferers by frosty weather.
Human nature has been more honored in hot, than in cold
climates. Asia, Eden, Egypt, and Greece, where man was first
known, and where his genius was first matured, are warm re-
gions. But victory, on the contrary, proceeds from the cold
348 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
1-egions of the north. It travels from towards the poles, into
countries lying in temperate climes. Buonaparte easily conquer-
ed Italy, but he failed when he directed his army of 850,000 men
into the colds of Russia. Victory cannot travel from the tropics
into the arctic regions, on account of the cold. The savage
hordes who overran Rome, Gaul and Spain, came from the north.
Rejoicing in the mildness of the air, the sweetness of the fruits,
and finding out their own superiority in bearing cold and hunger,
their conquest was but a feast for themselves, and a sacrifice of
their opponents.
Neatness and cleanliness were discoveries made, and virtues
practised by the inhabitants of warm climates, experience having
taught them the ill effects of filth of all kinds upon their health.
Cold water is a powerful stimulant, when thrown on the face of
a fainting person, and the cold bath and cool air increase strength
in the invalid.
That dampness is more destructive to health than a cold
ducking, is remarkably exemplified in Cuba, where persons who
get a partial wetting, throw themselves into the first stream they
come to, and thus wet themselves all over, and prevent taking
cold.
Pouring cold water into the sleeve of a person, with the arm
held up, gives great pain or suffering, and is one of the means of
punishment resorted to in the prisons of Philadelphia.
Diseases attack more frequently in the night than in the day
time, because the nights are colder than the days. It is better to
defend the body against the cold by warm clothing, and warm
houses, than to try to harden it so as to bear up against inclement
winters and weather ; for if this is done in winter, it will be un-
done by the heat of summer, and the hardening process must be
repeated every cold season. So far as the sensible qualities of
the air are concerned, cold is the most prolific cause of ill health.
Still, it is a mistaken idea that colds or catarrhs, produced by
catching cold, are the source of consumption. This alarming
disease, is hereditary to the English nation, and from them, their
American descendants received it, and not from the cold climate,
for the Germans, who are equally exposed to all changes of
weather, are far less subject to consumption than the English,
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 349
when both together inhabit America. It is also hereditary in
famihes.
A person's health is never hurt by wearing too many clothes,
but many yearly lose their lives by wearing too few. In our vari-
able climate, persons must submit to secure their health by wear-
ing more clothes than are agreeable. During severe exercise,
the raiment may be lightened to what is comfortable, but after
exertion is over, it must be increased somewhat beyond, or else
the health is endangered.
That the atmosphere is but an aerial circle around the earth,
is proved from its being lost at no great distance above us. The
atmospheric pressure is that which keeps man together ; let him
ascend above it, and his blood vessels burst.
Chimborazo is 20,000 feet only in height, which is considerably
less than four miles, and yet, the air upon the top of it, is too light
for life, in its full vigour. The Baron Humboldt ascended this
mountain, but he bled from his lungs in consequence of the light
cold air, and the lack of atmospheric pressure, and the warmth
of the steam and vapours of the air, lower down. Thus we see,
that in Egypt, extreme heat caused bleeding from the lungs, and
upon high mountains, extreme cold and light air, have the same
effect. This is easily explained upon the principles of anatomy,
aided by physiology. Common salt is a useful remedy for bleed-
ing from the lungs.*
Warm countries are not unhealthy when they are dry and
clean. It is moisture, miasm, and want of clean streets, and
clean houses, that make warm countries sickly. The Spaniards
shut up their windows and doors to keep out the heat, whilst the
English open them to let in the air. The former keep in their
houses in order to avoid the rays of the sun, and they have a
proverb that there is nothing to be seen in the streets but English-
men and dogs.
Mankind are not so prolific in countries very hot or very cold,
as in those that are temperate.
Fish are the only part of the animal creation that are most
abundant in cold regions. In the rivers and seas of the north,
* It is believed that those who use freely of salt with their food, are less liable
to consumption than others who use it but sparingly.
30*
350 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
the abundance of fish is truly surprising. The waters more
southerly, are supplied by their migratory propensities. Herring
travel south in the spring, and north in the autumn, directly the
reverse of wild geese.
A remarkable effect of the absence of atmospheric pressure
was noticed by the Baron Humboldt upon Chimborazo. The
snow that fell upon that mountain, was so light that a stone fell
through it just as though it had been water.
Wind increases the power of cold. A high wind gives no op-
portunity for the air surrounding the men and animals, to become
a little warmed by the warmth of their bodies. It is changing
every instant, for a current which may perhaps have its source in
Nova Zembia ; and although it may make no difference in the
thermometer, by blowing high, it does make a difference in the
health of men and women. The latter especially are more liable
to become sick in stormy weather with high wind.
June is the healthiest month, there being then neither great
heat nor cold, nor winds, nor rains ; besides, the diseases of win-
ter are past, and those of the hot season not begun.
Heavy rains and high winds may be succeeded by sickness,
owing to their breaking the scum upon stagnant waters, and
letting out pestiferous gases. But a contrary effect is not seldom
produced by them, which is owing to the blowing away of bad air,
and the washmg of streets from bad materials. The livers of
men and of animals, are most apt to show the effects of bad air, bad
aliments, and bad drinks. The old Romans examined the livers
of the brute creation in order to find out whether certain tracts of
country were healthy for man. If the liver was enlarged, or
otherwise diseased, the region was pronounced not salubrious.
Heat affects the liver, cold affects the lungs. Hence fevers in hot
seasons and coughs in cold ones. ^
Sudden mixtures of troops from all parts of the United States,
may so contaminate the air as to occasion sickness and mortality
in even cold weather. Mortal fevers prevailed in the extremely
cold winters of 1812, 1813, and 1814, from this cause, during our
war with Great Britain.
§ 39. The seeds of fever may lie in the human system for a
long time, without sprouting. They may then spring up and
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 351
prostrate a person upon a sick bed. The ague and fever, or in-
termittent fever, is one of those kind of diseases. We have
known several persons who came from fever and ague countries,
into parts of the country where that disease was unknown, and
after a residence there of six months, and in one instance of twelve
months, they were attacked, although they had escaped whilst in
the ague district. And that they had retained the seeds of the
disease thus long in their blood, was proved by no other person
having it except those who had been in fever and ague districts.
Washerwomen contract fevers from heaps of clothes thrust into
bags or baskets ; a thing that ought not to be done. A fever has
been taken by a person putting the stocking of another person
about his neck, who had had a fever.
Persons may get so accustomed to their own bad air that it will
not poison them, but will kill others who come suddenly in con-
tact or contiguity with them. A very destructive instance of this
kind occurred in England. A bookseller was imprisoned for
publishing a seditious libel. From some neglect his clothes had
become impregnated with destructive miasma, so that when he
was brought into court to be tried, a great number of the persons
present were made sick, and three hundred of the number were so
seriously il!, that they died, in the course of perhaps two or three
weeks. And of those friends, visitors, and attendants who were
about the latter, many sickened, and two hundred of the number
died ; making no less than five hundred deaths in the whole.*
And it is not a little astonishing, that in this instance, that there
seemed to be something of a sexual stamp upon this poisonous
exhalation. It first emanated, as we have seen, from a man, and
all those who died were men, it not carrying off a single woman !
We do not know that there is a parallel instance on record ; the
nearest approach to it being a kind of nationality in some fevers.
The sweating sickness, which proved very fatal to the EngHsh,
in the reign of Henry VII. was confined to the English people ;
those of other nations not having it when they were in the same
city, and Englishmen having it abroad, in cities where it invaded
no one else but the English, or their descendants.
* Dr. Rush. »
352 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
As the Jews are a distinct people, they have been known to
escape epidemics when those of other nations were suffering from
them. We have learned that the Swiss once had a fever, which
did not affect either French or Germans in the same town.
In the town of Derby, state of Connecticut, in 1795, a disease
prevailed resembling scarlet fever, which carried off the boys,
but did not invade the female children.
The same disease sometimes affects the members of the same
family, even when they live at a distance apart.
Flies are very abundant in some sickly seasons, but in Phila-
delphia, when in one instance the yellow fever visited that city,
the flies all disappeared.
§ 40. Benjamin Lay, of Philadelphia, attempted to fast forty
days, but could not complete the whole time. He visited a friend
during the period of his fast, and this friend found his breath so
extremely offensive and acrimonious, that it drew tears from his
eyes. It is impossible for a fast of this great length to be sustain-
ed in this country, unless by a long and previous training. Gradu-
al approaches must be made, from bread and water, down to a
handful of barley-corns a day, and this handful must be diminish-
ed by one at a time, every day, till only one barley-corn is taken,
the day preceding the commencement of total abstinence. By
this painful process it is possible that a person might at length fast
for the period of forty days ;"
but what would be its use or utility 1
It would at best be but imitating an example which we are no
where commanded to imitate, and which does not appear to have
been designed for man to attempt.
In the deserts of Africa and Arabia, fasting may be easier en-
dured than in America. The reason is, that the air in those
arid regions, finds no water, nor vegetables, and but few animals,
to impart its vital principles to. Its oxygen is more abundant,
therefore, and more enlivening, more life supporting, and exhile-
rating. The inhalations of the sustaining principle of life, is
there received in a greater proportion by breathing, and in a less
proportion by eating. Indians, who live irregularly, sometimes
fasting and sometimes gormandising, are more active than the
whites, but do not excel them in strength. The lion and tiger are
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 353
sometimes, like all beasts and birds of prey, empty, and at other
times over distended. Lions kept in a menagerie, require twenty
pounds of meat a day, and are uneasy with a less quantity.
The publications of Dr. Cheyne, Tiad some influence in their
day, to induce people to live wholly upon vegetables and fruit.
Morality, as well as health, was supposed by him to be aided by
this mode of living. But there is some downright doubts to be
met upon both these points. The first pair were led into tempta-
tion by a vegetable production, and fell without the influence of
animal food. Besides, the two first off*erings, by the two first born
of mankind, were the one, of the first fruits of the earth, and the
other, of the firstlings of the animal flock; and whilst the latter
was respected by the Divinity, the former was not ! And as to
health, it is worthy of all consideration, that autumns which
abound in fruit, are proverbially sickly ; but healthy autumns
abound with fresh meat.
Habit is every thing, and cannot be suddenly changed. The
ancient Scots ate but once a day, and then but sparingly ; whilst
the members of Congress, who make hearty and late breakfasts,
are injured in their healths, by not having their dinners till thr^e
o'clock. We have the case of a man who lived thirty days upon
vegetable food, who fainted at the smell of animal diet ; and of a
young physician, who after fasting entirely for three days, was
intoxicated by animal broth, and but a small quantity of that was
taken.
§ 41. Birds eat certain vegetable matters, which communicate
to them a quality which is poisonous to those persons who after-
wards eat the bird, but by which the bird's health is not injured.
The pheasant, or partridge, (tetrao umhellus,) feeds upon the buds
of the broad leafed laurel, (Icalmia latifolia,) with impunity ; but
persons have lost their lives by afterwards eating of these birds.
It is worthy of notice, that a physician came near losing his life
by a dinner upon the pheasant, whilst his wife and daughter who
dined with him upon the same bird, experienced no inconve-
nience. This was accounted for by his observing, that he ate the
black meat, whilst his wife and daughter partook only of the breast
and wings. This black meat lies in contact or in contiguity with
354 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
the intestines of the bird, which is thereby more exposed to the im-
pregnation of the poison.
Sixty boys at Princeton, N.J. were taken sick in one night,
from having all eaten of pot-pie made of pigeons, which had fed
on poke, or pigeon berries, (phytollaca decandria.)
§ 42. If tea is ever injurious, it is certainly but seldom so. It
appears to be, that kind of stimulus that is exactly adapted to the
female constitution, and to preserve them healthy and sprightly.
If it injures at all, the ill effects are felt in the nerves. Coffee
sometimes injures both the brain and nerves, occasioning
trembling at the stomach, and is to be avoided by those who have
palpitations at the heart, vertigo, or giddiness. Wine causes the
gout, which is as rare in those who drink distilled spirits, as in
those who drink water only. Mahometans, who drink no wine,
do not have the gout, nor does that disease appear to be known
amongst them. Cider produces the rheumatism. Vinegar is
wholesome, because it is always used temperately. We have
heard of an instance of sudden death, from a person accidentally,
Qr by mistake, having drank a pint of it at once, however. Cold
water, drank when the body is heated, has suddenly caused death.
It does this, by producing a cramp or spasm upon the stomach,
which is extended to the heart, and stops its beating ; for cramp of
the stomach alone, can be borne to any extent as to time and vio-
lence, without suddenly proving fatal. A pill of morphine is the
remedy, one eighth of a grain.
Curious facts, and such as are void of all analogical deduction,
or symmetry of reason, surprise us in the animal and vegetable
creations. Such as that carbonic acid gas is both pleasant and
salutary to the stomach, but suddenly kills by being breathed in-
to the lungs ; and that one part of a plant is esculent, whilst an-
other part will destroy life. The potatoe belongs to an order of
plants, (solanem,) of which the deadly nightshade is one ;
yet the
potatoe itself is one of the most healthy kinds of food.
§ 43. The dress of health, is always to dress warm enough.
It is better to err by dressing too warm than too cool. There is
no harm from too many clothes as to health, but every ill proceeds
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 355
from taking cold by wearing too few clothes. Comfort may be
marred by too many garments, or those that are too warm, but
such a dress produces neither consumption, gout, nor asthma
;
but it truly sometimes produces laziness.
People in this country imitate the dress of the people of France
and England, which pride never makes either too hot or too cold.
But health and pride hold different kinds of language. Persons
never ought to dress tight about the chest, by tight lacing or stays,
as there is danger of its producing bleeding from the lungs, and
laying the foundation of consumption. Ladies and dandies, be-
ware of jumps.
§ 44. We have seen the aesophagus, or meat pipe of a boy,
with a halfpenny inside of it, in a kind of bag or cyst. This
halfpenny was swallowed when the boy was a child, it stuck in
the passage edgewise, and became encysted, or covered over with
a thin skin, and whilst it thus remained, it did no harm to his
health. But when he arrived to the age of seventeen, this pellicle,
which covered the copper coin, broke, and as the metal had be-
come corroded by the fluids, a kind of poisonous verdigris had
formed in the sac, which passed into his stomach, and poisoned
him to death. He died in 1810, and was attended by Drs. Rush
and Dorsey, at Philadelphia. He came from Ireland, and it was
there that he swallowed the halfpenny. The Duke of Sully re-
ceived a wound in battle, into which some grains of gunpowder
were lodged. Eighteen years afterwards some of this powder
was extracted from the spot, and it is remarkable that it flashed
like pgwder which had been recently made.
§ 45. Exercise is necessary for people who live freely upon
animal food, but sedentary persons may live so abstemiously as
not to be injured, especially if they make it a rule to stand up
whilst they read and write. Mechanics who carry on their trades
within doors, such as jewellers, shoemakers, and tailors, ought to
work standing, at least one half the day.
We have an account of a certain gamester, who spent two
days and two nights at the gaming table, without rising. We
ehould suspect that he gambled away his health, if not his money.
356 THE TOxVGUE OF TIME.
A foolish Dutchman took it into his head that sleep was the
natural state of man. He therefore concluded that he would
spend his life in sleep, which he mostly did, till he went mad and
died. Of all the classes of mechanics, carpenters appear to be
the longest lived. Lawyers are usually healthy, and of the pro-
fessions, as a general rule, perhaps live the longest. They are
not so much exposed as physicians, to the weather, nor to the de-
pressing passions, as ministers.
Attendance on theatres disposes to nervous diseases, and does
not in fact tend much to morality, or practically to soften the
heart. Ladies may be seen weeping at a tragedy, who will omit
to pay their servants their wages, whose bread may depend upon
the pittance which they have earned, and drive a beggar empty
away from their doors. AVe have learned that the very night
after the news of the theatre having been burned at Richmond,
arrived in Philadelphia, that the theatre in the latter city was
crowded to overflowing; and that many applicants had to depart
for the want of seats ; although by that calamity, the Governor of
the state of Virginia, and a great number of other persons, ladies
as well as gentlemen, lost their lives.
§ 46. Of hereditary diseases, it has been noticed that con-
sumption is most apt to be transmitted from the father; especial-
ly when the eyes, and forehead, and chest, resemble those of
that parent. Madness and scrophula, are derived from the
mother ; and sometimes phthisic also. We have remarked of
hereditary diseases, that they often show themselves in children
first, and afterwards in the parent from whom they were inherited.
§ 47. Dr. Rush made a remark many years ago very credit-
able to New England, but which it is feared is not sustained by
the present generation. It was, that quack doctors could never
support themselves there, owing to the general diffusion of knowl-
edge among all classes.
§ 48. The desire of progeny is a deep seated principle, but
strongest in women. Give me children or else I die, was uttered
by one of the sex in remote antiquity ; and this same woman died
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 357
in childbed with her second child. We have seen a notice of a
woman in genteel life, who upon seeing a beggar woman in a
family way, declared that she would exchange situations in life,
and circumstances with her, if she could thereby be in the same
state.
§ 49. Very tall persons, nor dwarfs, do not usually arrive at
old, or at least to very old age. It is however said that a certain
dwarf, who was brought to England by George II. lived to the age
of eighty. George III., who was a seven months child, lived to
old age, and reigned a space of time unparalleled ; no less than
sixty years. He was the grandson of George II.
More depends upon air than upon aliment in protracting life.
The same air which at this instant is entering our lungs, may have
once entered the lungs of an Esquimaux, or a Seminole, a Lap-
lander, or an African. But the world is s-o large, its oceans so
vast, its deserts so broad, and its atmosphere so high, that there is
little danger of a general contamination of the air, so as to make
it like that of a sick room, in which the sick person is extremely
incommoded by too many people crowding, as they destroy the
oxygen, or vital principle of the air, and thus add to the aggrava-
tion of maladies, especially of those which are febrile. The near-
est affinity which the world bears to a sick room, is in that vast
epidemic called influenza, which has travelled from Asia to
Europe, and from Europe to America,
§ 50. Nothing shocks an American ear more poignantly, than
the sound of famine, or the news of its being suiFered by others.
In this plentiful country, absolute suffering from hunger, is one
of the evils little known to an individual. And never has a state
or community, since our vast country was cultivated, known the
horrors of want.
It is a curious fact, however, connected with this subject, and
which we have from sources upon which reliance can be placed,
that the first three days of deprivation of food are the most distress-
ing. After this space the painful sensations are less acute. Gene-
ral debility ensues, and the craving appetitc'is diminished. Fever
3J
358 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
which always enfeebles the desire for food, is produced, and
sometimes delirium takes place.
The system, in some degree, accommodates itself to its situa-
tion, so that the stomach, after long abstinence, ceases to be the
same organ that it was ; which is proved by a common, and even
sometimes by a very moderate meal, so disordering it, that the
person dies. The kind of food that contains most nourishment
in a small space, is clams. By these being dried, by which their
weight is lessened, and they of course deprived of their shells, a
person may carry more to support life about him than by any
other known substance.
It is a curious fact respecting drinks, that their stimulating
quality is increased by being sipped, licked, or taken in very small
quantities at once. This may be owing to the absorbents cariying
the stimulating quality more directly to the brain. It being a fact,
that persons whose brains have been examined, after having died
drunk, have been found to contain alcohol in so pure a state that
the smell of gin and of whiskey could be discerned, and the spirit
has even burnt, when flame was applied. We have been at pains
to ascertain this fact, ourselves.
A bet was made in Philadelphia, that a person might be made
drunk by licking and sipping a pint of small beer. The wager
was won, as the person who submitted himself to the experiment,
was actually made drunk.
Hunger and thirst may both be lessened by going into a bath,
either of cold or warm water. The pain of hunger may be in
some degree mitigated by applying a plaster of shoemaker's wax
to the stomach.
§ 51. We are told of Marmontel, that he was cured of a violent
pain in his head, by fasting ; a course which was prescribed by a
groom. Every kind of pain and distress is alleviated by music,
and sometimes by that of a very inharmonious kind. Two chil-
dren, in the same room, are seldom heard crying together ; the
little ills of the one, being absorbed by his listening to the cries of
the other.
A gentleman pained with the gout, shut himself up in a room
with his negroes, whom he made to sing as loud as they possibly
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 359
could. Such a method might be tried in surgical operations.
Tooth-ache will succumb to the sight and noise of two dogs a
fighting, and at the sight of a dentist.
Much may be done by the new use of old remedies, in juiti-
gatiiig hunger, thirst, pain, and the other ills of life. Alexander
and Buonaparte, did not invent any new instruments of destruc-
tion, but by the superior use of old ones, they killed more men,
and conquered more nations, than any other monarchs that ever
lived. We must learn to benefit mankind by the antithesis of their
example.
§ 52. At forty^ a fool or a physician, as relates to one's own
diseases. Macklin lived over one hundred years, and his method
was to go to bed as soon as he felt the least unwell, and to refuse
company for two or three days.
A chamber horse is made by placing a long board upon a thin
support at each end, and fastening a chair to the middle of it.
An invalid may then seat himself in the chair, and by means of a
strap or string overhead, give himself such a motion as to secure
a beneficial exercise within doors.
Languor and fatigue after exercise, are signs of debility ; these
must be met by MackUn's method, whilst too little exercise dispo-
ses to obstructions, low spirits, and a train of other evils. These
must be overcome by the chamber-horse, when the invalid cannot
go abroad. Singing is one of the methods of strengthening the
lungs. Quaker women have been supposed to have consump-
tion, because they never sing. Silent women are apt to be un-
healthy ; they having been designed to charm the world by their
agreeable conversation, when they deviate from nature's plan, it
pays, or rather punishes them.
Galen said that diseases are cured by remedies, and not by
rhetoric ; but he evidently had Demosthenes and Cicero, in his
mind when he wrote, and not a charming, sociable, agreeable,
and beautiful woman, who may do much towards curing some
diseases, without remedies. Some one said of his physician, that
he gained his affection by the suavity of his manners, but that he
ruined his constitution by his remedies. There is no danger of
360 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
the latter where pleasant conversation and good singing, only are
used as remedies. t
§ 53. Josephus tells us of Saul, that some strange demonia-
cal disorders came upon him, which brought such suffocations as
were ready to choke him, and that his physicians could find no
other remedy than that of singing and playing upon the harp to
relieve him. For this choking malady, of which we have, in fe-
males, had a great many cases, we have prescribed music, and
have seen it of much benefit.
Dr. Wallis, an English physician, tells of a friend of his, that
be was always drunk, after drinking, if he lay down, but not if
he sat up. This goes to strengthen our theory, that strong
liquors are carried directly to the brain, as they would more easily
find their way there in a supine than in an erect position.
Cold water is the remedy for fevers in Africa and Asia. Ma-
homet had this remedy used on himself by his wives. He was
refreshed by it, but it did not save his life, as he died afterwards.
It is supposed that cold water has killed some persons in yellow
fever. The life of Augustus, the Roman Emperor, was saved by
the cold bath, but one of his relatives was lulled by the same
remedy^ In the former case, by saving the life of a great man,
it obtained immense celebrity, and therefore was used improperly
in other cases. It is thus that good and evil occupy the same
bed, but that evil often proves the strongest, and crowds out its
bed-fellow.
§ 54. Alcohol or ardent spirits, stimulates the brain and mind,
increases energy of thought, and acuteness of intellect. In ex-
cess, in some, it rouses the malevolent and revengeful passions,
whilst in others, a silJy kind of good nature marks the mischief.
Wine has been called the milk of old age. It is the source of
smiles, songs and sighs. The Nubians make an intoxicating
liquor called omberber, which signifies the mother of nightingales,
because those sing, who drink of it to excess.
Philo says of angels, that they are the eyes and ears of the
Great King. The powers of seeing and hearing, are in some
persons vastly increased by partaking of wine ; but when per-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 361
fection is obtained, every change is for the worse ; and when the
mental powers are at their height by the stimulus of wine, they
are prone to rapidly deteriorate. He it is that endures to the end
who has the resolution to conquer.
A woman at the age of one hundred and three years, has lately
been taken up in the streets of New York, and committed for
being a common drunkard. A sad commentary upon a long
misspent life.
§ 5o. He who has wealth, and would apply it to the purposes
of health and comfort, must spend his summers in New England,
his autumns in Pennsylvania, or Maryland, and his winters in the
southern states ; and if consumptive, he must go as far south in
the cold seasons, as Florida. We would not recommend the
West Indies, as we knew a fine young physician who was con-
sumptive, go thither, who died with yellow fever. Consumptions
also prevail there.
As to diet for consumptive persons, we would recommend it
exclusively to consist of bread and butter, covered with sugar or
honey. Milk may sometimes be used to advantage, but it some-
times disagrees, and then does injury. When it does not sit well,
a table spoonful of lime-water may be added to a pint of it, or it
may have either of the sweets, honey, molasses, or sugar, mixed
with it, in such proportion as to render it harmless, palateable,
and salutary. It does best when it is rendered perfectly agreea-
ble ; and as no one is a judge of another's taste, this part of the
matter must be left with the patient himself.
The blood of calves and lambs, transfused into the veins of the
sick, is not likely to do so much as a milk diet. Transfusion has
never fulfilled its promises. What does not enter the stomach,
can never enter the blood-vessels with safety, not even water.*
A woman has been said to have been cured of consumption, by
keeping her silent for five days.t
* This position may be remarkably illustrated, by considering that a drop of
the purest water, swallowed the wrong way, produces strangulation and distress,
whilst the thick mucus or phlegm formed in or by the part, is borne without
excitement.
t Dr. Rush.
31*
362 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
§ 56. That the world might not be led into idolatry, the first
discoverer of opium, remains ^unknown. Of all remedies, this is
the best, and has been significantly and reverently termed the
finger of God. A grain of opium once an hour, till it eases pain,
and produces sweating, cures rheumatism, not transitorily but
permanently. Opium-eating is a bad practice, but not so injuri-
ous to health as an intemperate use of ardent spirits. The Earl
of Mar, died under a life insurance, to a large amount. After his
death, the insurance office refused to pay the premium, because
the earl had been discovered to have been an opium-eater. A
trial was held, and the great physicians of Edinburgh, examined
as witnesses, whether the habit of opium-eating shortened life or
not. It was the prejudice of physicians, both there and else-
where, that this was the fact ; but upon referring to individuals,
who were known long to have been in this habit, they were
found alive and in old age, and those who had died, it could not
be proved, had induced diseases, or shortened their lives by its
use. The insurance office was therefore compelled to pay.
Opium may be taken for tooth-ache, and for head-ache, after
the stomach and blood-vessels have been found in no fault ; for as
to these they must be in a proper state, or else the opiate will fail
of the desired effect.
It. has been supposed that opium-eaters refrain from strong
drink ; but this is not always the case, as the present writer had
a patient who was intemperately addicted to both. The person
referred to was a woman, who would eat opium till she grew
stupid, and then drink rum till she was elevated ; and when too
much excited by spirits, she would again resort to opium. She
was a woman of some standing in society, married, and the mother
of four children. She died with typhus fever.
§ 57. Those bear sickness and pain with most calmness, who
lave fortified themselves with a consideration of their probably
having them to endure. Hence women have more fortitude than
men, from their reflecting much upon the subject of endurance ;
or having, if I may be allowed the expression, studied the science
of suffering. This happens in consequence of women hoping,
or expecting that they are some time or other to become mothers,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 363
and of course, that they must be subjected to the pains of child-
bearino-. Men, especially those in advanced Hfe, who have had
little or no sickness, are very destitute of fortitude, in case they
fall sick.
Atticus was one of the best and most proper characters for a
pattern, and most worthy of imitatio«i, of all the ancient worthies,
mthis, that his conduct was so prudent, judicious and unexcep-
tionable, that he obtained the esteem, and retained it also, of all
the parties at Rome, without violating his neutrality. A very
different state of things from that in which a man unites with no-
body, and is despised by every body. His health was so fine that
he arrived at the age of seventy-seven years, without scarce know-
ing what sickness or pain was. But he now fell sick, yet not
severely so, his disorder being rather a slight chronic or slow fever,
than any acute disease. This he bore for three months, when his
illness put on painful symptoms, which he, it seems, lacked the
fortitude to bear. He then sent for Agrippa, his son-in-law, and
for two other persons, to whom he made known his intention of
ending his days by abstaining from food. His son-in-law remon-
strated in vain, with tears in his eyes. And here we may notice
the length of time, the short time compared with some other cases
of the kind in which fasting and famine may prove fatal. We
may also notice the effect of entire abstinence upon the fever of
Atticus ; for after two days, his fever left him and his disease
abated. Yet he still persisted, and three days afterwards, making
five fasting days in the whole, Atticus was a dead man.
A case of fasting in an insane man, Kilborn by name, hap-
pened in Colchester, Connecticut, which was so singular that it
was noticed in London, and published in the European Maga-
zine, for 1807,* from which we derived our first knowledge re-
specting it. Mr. Ezekiah Kilborn, until he was fifty years old,
was a man of intelligent mind. By degrees he then became in-
sane ; and after three years had elapsed, it was found necessary,
for the safety of his family, to confine him in chains. In this
situation, for nearly twenty-five years, he remained, when he im-
bibed an idea that he should be poisoned to death, and refused
* See the Obituary for March, 1807, in the European Magazine.
364 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
food ; and for the space of sixty-two days he lived without eating,
although he drank water and chewed tobacco. He' then, by the
solicitations of his attendants, and with a voracious appetite, took
one spoonful of milk, and again resumed his total abstinence,
when two days after taking the milk, and sixty-four days from the
first commencement of his fast, death closed the scene.* His
age seventy-seven. The inference may be drawn from this case,
that tobacco allays the suffering of hunger. This is owing to its
narcotic quality, and by its stimulating powers, it may also serve
to keep up that action in the powers of life which would sink
sooner in famine without it.
§ 58. The pulse in savages, is less frequent than among the
civilized, because they have less feeling, less tenderness, and less
pity. No savage would think himself a brave, was his pulse to
quicken at the approach of death, or become more frequent, when
he was dying, or to be put into a flutter, at the sight of a tree at
which he was to be tied up and burnt.
In fevers, cold wrists, and a drawing down of the lower jaw in
breathing, are always fatal signs. It is a fatal sign to hear a sick
person say, let me die in peace. Or if not uniformly fatal, it is so
often a sign of death, as to be very alarming. Gen. Washington,
in his last sickness, expressed, by the waving of his hand, this
fatal symptom of let me alone. So true it is that nature conspires
its own destruction, by refusing the only means of rehef.
§ 59. The smell of a dying person has been known to be so
acute, as to smell an apple in the pocket of a person below stairs.
Super-sensation, and double vision, are symptoms that physicians
do not like to see in their patients. They denote a taste of
another world, and a departure from the present. The howling
of dogs, has been supposed to denote death. Dr. Rush imputes
this noise in the canine species, to their acuteness of perceiving
bad smells emanating from sick persons. But persons die with-
out dogs giving any such notice, and dogs howl without any per-
* By a division of the town of Colchester, into Colchester and Salem, that
part of the former town in which Mr. Kilborn lived, is now a part of the latter,
us I am informed by the venerable Dr. Watrous, of Colchester.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 365
son's dying ; and when such a sound is heard, there is no appa-
rently uncommon smell about the sick. Whether or not it is not
wholly a superstitious notion, must remain undecided. We have
known sufficient of it to give it a passing notice ; but we should
hardly have dared to mention a subject so recondite, had we not
found an exemplar of high authority. We will not dismiss the
subject, however, without recommending to those persons who
place any reliance upon the howling of dogs, as denoting death,
to keep a journal for one year, and if they do not find that the
dog has proved himself a false prophet, much oftener than a true
one, then to continue to think that the spirit of prophecy is in the
dog, otherwise to give it up. The fact is, that coincidences are
noticed and remembered, whilst the ten thousand failures pass
without attention.
Animals are often very noisy upon slight occasions, as the hen,
when she is disburdened of an egg, and sometimes without an
event even thus trifling. Why, as people sometimes die during
the cackling of hens, the peeping of frogs, the hallooing of tree-
toads, and the cawing of ravens, are not these animals accounted
foretellers of mortality 1 If animated nature, in brays, bellows,
and screaming owls, sounds out upon no occasion, why may not
dogs howl, as dogs bark, without any cause at all 1 Coinciden-
ces, like diseases, are epidemic. One accident, good or bad, does
not come alone, but in clusters.
§ 60. As we have mentioned dogs, the subject of hydropho-
bia is suggested. A case of hydrophobia, after it has occurred
with its frightful symptoms, has not hitherto found a remedy.
Even opium fails of having any effect at all, as Majendie ascer-
tained. We should be induced to give the sulphate of morphia,
with the sugar of lead, in the largest doses—say ten grains of
each.
A case of hydrophobia occurred in Delaware, eighteen years
after the bite. This is the longest term ever known in America,
although thirty years are mentioned by Boerhaave. This slow-
ness of the poison to operate, is analagous to the vaccine, or cow-
pox, in some peculiar constitutions ; one case of which did not
occur till a year after inoculation, as we are credibly informed.
366 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
The poison of the mad-dog shows itself about the muscles of the
throat, and has, like mercury, cantharides, and tartar emetic, a
specific spot of the human frame, in which it manifests itself at
first. Just so of the dipsas, a serpent, whose bite causes a mortal
thirst. But all poisons, although they have a local action at first,
have a general one at last, affecting the system with fever, convul-
sion, mortification, or swelling.
Although hydrophobia has set at defiance the usual remedial
agents, we have a statement that a French physician having been
seized with it, and having no hopes of recovery, went into a bath
heated to 126* in order to end his miseries by drowning himself,
and that a perspiration ensued, and an unexpected recovery fol-
lowed.
§ 61. Cancer, like hydrophobia, is deemed an incurable affec-
tion, when from a schirrus tumour, it becomes an open ulcer.
The best way to keep a cancerous tumour safe, is to think nothing
about it, nor do nothing for it. A man caught a cancer on his
lip, by kissing a woman who had one on her's. We have known
death finally to ensue, from the patient submitting to an operation
for a kind of horny-wart, which never had troubled him, and
probably never would, had he not troubled that. It is best not to
rouse the lion, when we have no means to quell him.
§ 62. The source of colds and catarrhs is laid by exposure to
a current of air, or to wet, dampness, and heating one part of the
body whilst other parts of it remain cold.
The Russians avoid catching cold by heating their rooms by
means of stoves. The Hollanders by inuring themselves to their
climate, and accustoming themselves to sit without any fire at all
in winter ; as from the scarcity of fuel, they rake up their fires
after cooking, just as we do at night.
A man in New York, cured his family of influenza, by what he
called par boiling them, that is by the hot bath.
§ 63. Trances occur after a dangerous sickness, when the
mind is wholly intent upon the world of spirits. One Thomas
• 126^ of Fahrenheit, 42= of Reaumur.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 367
Say, of Philadelphia, lay so long in a trance, that he was given
up for dead, and laid out. When he recovered, he mentioned the
names of two persons who had died, whilst he lay in that state.
This, to be sure, seems very strange, as persons lying in a trance^
cannot be made to show any signs of life, not even by pricking
them with pins and needles. But Mr. Say went further ; he as-
serted that he had seen one of these persons in a state of happi-
ness, and the other in a state of misery. Now it is known, and
we have known something of it in our own practice, that persons
hear when animation is suspended, and when they show no signs
of sense, nor scarce any of life ; and the probability is, that he
heard of the death of these persons by the hearing of the ear,
and that there was nothing supernatural in the matter. As to the
states of happiness and misery in which he fixed them, the most
probable solution is, that he inferred them from his knowledge of
their moral characters. Sick persons, after recovery, like to deal
in the marvellous, and to tell what eye hath not seen, nor ear
heard. A whisper, has sometimes availed to arouse a person
from a trance, when loud noises have failed. But in one instance
in a patient of our own, we succeeded by firing pistols into the
fire place, andunder the windows of his room, in the night. The
flash and sound had the desired effect, although he was given up
as dying or dead by his friends.
A man in Tennessee, was resuscitated after having been put
into a coffin, and the coffin into the grave. The first spade full of
earth thrown on to the coffin, was succeeded by a groan, which
was distinctly heard. The coffin was raised, and the man com-
pletely recovered. A woman, who was apparently dead, revived
by a dog licking her lips.
An old man, who was dead to appearance, and for whOm
watchers were obtained, to watch with the corpse during the night,
was revived and restored to life and health. A person came into
the room to treat the people with liquor, when passing near the
corpse, he said, " come old man I will not pass you," and imme-
diately poured a glass of brandy into his mouth. Startling and
surprising enough to the attendants, it excited strangling. He
revived and recovered.
368 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Attempts to revive a dead person, never can do any harm, and
may, if not oftener than once in ten thousand attempts, save a
life. To be buried ahve, caps the cHmax of all the horrid deaths.
StilJ, as to suffering, although imagination places it at its height,
a very eminent and competent judge, in such matters, thought
that no suffering, or very little could be endured in the grave ;
and that all sensibility was soon lost, when air, or the supposed
soul, which some make to consist in air, is shut out. Air being
the breath of life, and breathing and life being the same thing, it
has been inferred, that those that do not breathe, cannot feel.
But upon these points there may be much said on all sides.
§ 64. Resuscitation, is caused by sympathy, as the motion of
the throat in swallowing, or in quackling, is extended to the heart,
which causes it to beat, and then to the lungs, and then breathing
ensues. And so of applying warmth to the skin, inflating the
lungs, and exciting the peristaltic motion, and rolling on a cask,
applying salt to the skin, and hartshorn, or ammonia, or ether, to
the nose, all of which should be tried on drowned persons.
CHAPTER XI.
OP THE SENSES, PASSIONS OF THE MIND, MEMORY, JUDGMENT, IMA-
GINATION, ASSOCIATION. THE WILL. WIT. GENIUS. NECESSITY.
EPITAPH. MR. ALEXANDER ALEXANDER, AND POINT NO POINT.
§ 1. Bad smells are said to be connected with immorality in
conduct. Hence the extraordinary immorality and wickedness of
the inhabitants about Mount Vesuvius.
A military commander gave credit to the books of Moses, as
being the best orderly code of discipline in the world.
The Bramins are very disagreeably affected by the smell of an
English sailor, after he has been a long voyage. This may be
owing to his living for a long time upon animal food, and to their
living upon vegetables only.
A drop of the oil of damask roses, will render fragrant a whole
pint of olive oil, and the odour is said to continue for a great
many years. A grain of the best musk, has been known to be
smelt in a room for twenty years. There is a fragrant shrub,
growing in North Carolina, which has been smelt at sea, one
hundred and twenty miles from the coast. A dog has been sup-
posed to discern the difference between a live sheep and a dead
one, when both were buried up in the snow. He scratched over
the live sheep, apparently with an intention of helping it out, but
howled over the dead one.
We have noticed an account from the great Boerhaave, of the
extraordinary acuteness of smell in the elephant. He was said
to have selected a piece of money from among one thousand
pieces, only because it had passed through his master's hands.
Some fevers are distinguishable by the smell. Typhus fever
has the smell of mice.
32
370 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
§ 2. No animal has naturally an odd number of eyes, nor is
any one formed by nature with a single eye. Some species of
the spider have eight eyes, some insects six, and some four.
Persons who have weak eyes, should avoid a light either too
scanty, or too excessive. Reading old books, is better for weak
eyes, than those which are newly printed. The eyes, like every
other part of the body, gain strength by exercise. It is, there-
fore, erroneous to resort to spectacles so long as they can be
avoided. The eye-sight may be deficient for a while, and become
better, by the natural powers of vision accommodating themselves
to the altered shape of the eye, or on the contrary, the altered
shape of the eye by old age, may accommodate itself to the con-
centration of the visual rays.
§ 3. For defect of hearing, sneezing, an emetic, and pouring
the juice of red onions, a little warmed, and mixed with the oil of
sweet almonds, into the ear, may all be useful.
We hear imperfectly when we yawn, owing to the muscles of
the lower jaw making a noise, and perhaps obstructing the air
into the Eustachian tube, or putting it in motion.
Deficient hearing is helped by holding a stick in the mouth ; a
discoveiy which was made by a young lady who was deaf, and
who happened to have a stick in her mouth by the end, whilst the
other end was lying on a harpsichord.
The little moveable bones of the ear, contrary to all other
bones in the body, do not grow as age advances, they being as
large in an infant of five months old, as ever they are.
People are observed to listen with their mouths open, which
may be a help to hearing in two ways, one by admitting the sound
by way of tlie mouth into two little tubes leading from near the
back part of the nostrils into the cavity of the ear. These tubes
are affected by colds and sore throats, in consequence of which
the hearing is rendered less perfect for a time, and sometimes, es-
pecially in children, the ear becomes painful. The other mode
in which opening the mouth helps the hearing, is by widening the
opening of the external ear.
§ 4. The lungs of an unborn child which has not breathed,
would appear entirely useless to it, as well as many other parts of
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 371
its little body. If we can suppose that it thinks, conjectures, and
reasons, it might well wonder for what purpose its feet and legs
were made, even after its birth, as it cannot walk for many-
months. A more perfect state of maturity, alone could unfold
these mysteries to its mind. So with man in his present state of
existence, there are a great many inscrutable things, which are
involved in the deepest darkness, which a future state of being
may render perfectly plain. For when the infant can walk,
nothing can be plainer to it, than the purposes for which its legs
and feet were made.
§ 5. Dr. Rush thought that the materiality of the soul did not
clash at all with Christianity. He thought that St. Paul was mis-
taken when he said that a seed placed in the ground did not grow
unless it died. He thought that if it died it would never grow.
He thought also that spirit did not naturally possess any more
immortality than matter, but that in either case, that all depended
upon the will of the Creator.
§ 6. The lapse of ages is not felt in the grave, whether time
passes fast or slow—a day from a thousand years cannot be dis-
tinguished ia that state. The memory of living beings, is both
active and passive, according to circumstances. We are com-
pelled to remember what we would forget, and often forget things
that we wish to remember. In order for thought to be produced,
and ideas retained in the mind, it is necessary for a due supply of
blood to be sent to the brain. We have had patients who during
fits of sickness, have lost week after week of their existence, of
which they remembered not one single circumstance when they
recovered. We suppose that in such cases, that there was not a
due supply of red blood sent to the brain. There are other cases,
however, in which a superabundance of blood flowing to the
head, may oppress the brain, confuse the thoughts, and destroy
the memory. Such is the state of things in apoplexy.
§ 7. Instinct, both men and brutes possess in common. The
infant has instinct, but when it arrives at maturity, reason in some
measure supersedes it, because instinct is not necessary, when
reason is surer.
372 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
The Mexicans consult the instinct of their children in a re-
markable manner, by first making them drunk, and then laying
a number of tools in their way, belonging to difi'erent trades.
The tool which the child chooses, designates the trade which it is
afterwards to learn.
§ 8. We perceive that infants have an instinctive attachment
to theii* mother, and have seen an account of an infant who at the
age of eighteen months, crept to its mother, in order to pull away
another infant she had taken, because its mother was dead.
The most extraordinary instances of memory in the world, and
the most incredible, are those of Cyrus, and Adrian, or Hadrian.
Cyrus remembered the name of every man in his army, consist-
ing of one hundred thousand men.
Adrian's memory was so retentive that he retained every inci-
dent of his life, and knew the names of all the soldiers of his
vast army. He killed five hundred thousand Jews because they
rebelled, and built a city upon the ruins of Jerusalem, which he
called iEka. He went to Britain, and it was he who built a wall
sixty miles long, to prevent the irruptions of the then barbarous
Caledonians. It has been supposed that when one faculty greatly
excels, that others, or some one of the other faculties, are defi-
cient.
We have an account of one Joshua Barnes, who exceeded
most persons m his retentive faculty, but was thought very defi-
cient in some other endowments ; insomuch that one of his class-
mates proposed for him this epitaph :
Here lies Joshua Barnes, of happy Memory,
waiting for judgment.
§ 9. Lmagination has been supposed to resemble memory
;
but the resemblance is not very close, as it embraces things future,
distant, ideal, and extends to other countries, and to other worlds.
It includes things profound, spiritual, sublime, and beautiful ; but
not these alone, as it descends to things superficial, prohibited,
and mean.
The current of our thoughts, our imagination and faith, are
partly controlable by the will, but not wholly so. We may wish
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 373
to have thoughts only pleasurable, but we cannot by the power of
the will always command them so to be ; and we may desh'e for
cogitations only holy, but evil thoughts and light imaginings will
sometimes visit the mind.
We are sometimes as unable to stop the current of our thoughts,
as we are the rolling of thunder, or the course of the Mississippi.
They follow as consequences of what we see and hear, and of
what we have heard and seen heretofore. When great conquer-
ors are mentioned, who can refrain from thinking of Alexander,
Julius Ca3sar and Buonaparte? And if an usurper, or a hypo-
crite, is named, Oliver Cromwell will most assuredly be thought of.
So if in sickness we have partaken of food or fruit that has
oppressed the stomach, given pain, or brought back fever, we
cannot see the article without its exciting in the mind the whole
train of our sufferings. And however distressing it may be, we
are compelled to think of our miseries, and their accompaniments,
all over and over again. The sight of a miserable object, who
had been so burned about the mouth, that although he had the
parts healed, his mouth was all the time wide open, would occur
to those who had seen him, when burns were mentioned, or
mouths distorted seen.
The strongest impressions are made when words, sounds, and
sights, have immediate relation to events. Monomania, or in-
sanity upon one point, may be suddenly produced, and yet last
for life. A man took it intojiis head, that a certain minister was
in reality the Devil himself. This he maintains, and is firmly and
fully persuaded of in his own mind. The strange reason was,
that this minister attended the man's wife in her last sickness, and
first announced to him that she was dead. He was a little crazed
upon that point only. A gentleman who escaped with his life
from Lisbon, when that city was ruined by an earthquake, and so
many lives lost, could not, during the remainder of his life, hear
the mention of the word earthquake, without going delirious.
The association of ideas, may sometimes be connected with a
similarity of sounds ; or fancy may suggest to an individual, re-
semblances, fitted to his imagination alone, and which to no other
mortal on earth, would excite the same idea. This is the basis
upon which men differ in legislative bodies, in armies, in courts^,
32*
374 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
and on juries. The same facts, and the same evidence, do not
make the same impressions.
A man once hved in the city of Philadelphia, whose name was
Alexander Alexander. Another man who had some business
with him, had forgotten the name, but in making inquiries, and
conversing upon the subject, he said that he recollected that the
man's name was like Point no Point, a place so called on the
Delaware river. Upon mention of this, the person to whom he
was addressing himself, immediately guessed that Mr. Alexander
was the person whom he wished to see, which was perfectly cor-
rect. But ever after, poor Mr. Alexander went by the name of
Point no Point.
§ 10. Men associate things with their particular professions.
The sight of a conspicuous eminence, a knoll or hill, would, by
a military man, be thought a suitable place for a fort ; by a mill-
wright, a place for a windmill ; whilst a gardener would view its
slopes and summit, as proper for certain plants, shrubs, and vege-
tables.
Judgment is dull and deficient in some men, and acute and
accurate iji others ; and upon it depends the great difference be-
tween men in the business and affairs of life. Its outlines are
formed by acute discrimination, between the propriety of immedi-
ate and vigorous action, in the general, or the Fabian policy of
delay, in order for the accumulation of energy, and the future
exercise of exertion, upon a scale more extended, or more deci-
sive, or less hazardous to life, or of more extensive injury to an
enemy, or of benefit to his country.
Accurate distinction, has been called judgment ; but this de-
pends not upon the mind, but upon the acuteness of the senses ;
whereas judgment is more of a mental act. They are, how-
ever, so nearly related, as sometimes not to be very easily dis-
tinguished.
A certain grazier, in this country, could distinguish the cattle of
every state in the Union, at first sight. This probably depended
more upon his acuteness of vision, than upon any thing else.
Sharpness of sight, and minuteness of comparison, are mighty
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 375
agents in sheriffs, constables, drovers, and jockies ; in hunters of
thieves, and hunters of beasts.
§ 11. One sense, and one faculty, sometimes take the place
of another ; and there have been persons who had so much judg-
ment, that every other gift of nature, or sense, seemed almost su-
perfluous.
Terror excites motion in paralytic limbs, and excites thought
in dull and torpid minds. It arouses energy and penetrates
mystery. It suggests resources which would otherwise never have
been thought of.
A party of shipwrecked sailors, upon a barbarous coast, hav-
ing been captured by the savages, expected nothing but immediate
death. Upon this, one of them, who was an Irishman and light
of foot, commenced an Irish dance. It amused the barbarians
mightily, and he and his companions were saved. He was after-
wards made a chief, and married to the daughter of one of the
native chiefs.
Acuteness of discernment, and minuteness of comparison, will
enable one person to detect an artificial strawberry, from one
that was natural, at first sight, which would deceive another.
§ 12. Old President Adams' definition of the people of New
England was, that they were a " going to meeting animal."
376 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
A certain writer assumes that man is a religious being, and
adduces one proof, which we think can hardly be admitted as a
pertinent one. It is, that the gamester thanks God for a good
hand of cards. He thinks that the mariner always calls on God
in a storm. But these things, by such persons, are oftener done
profanely than religiously.
§ 13. When we consider conscience, in all its bearings, in re-
lation to the general who kills by ten thousand a day, in relation
to the barbarian who murders the infant, and scalps and tortures
the adult, it is difficult to make it a universal principle of right
and of wrong. For in such cases, it is a principle of wrong without
any thing of right ; as is the case with it, in the vast hordes of
cannibals, thieves, and murderers, who infest Asia and Africa,
and the Islands. It is true that right and wrong belong to the
conscience, when there is any conscience, and that it acts as a
judge, when there is any internal judge, in deciding cases of con-
science.
But what sort of conscience can that savage have, w^ho imitates
his father, in murdering an infant, and plundering a traveller,
and whose father also only foUoAved the customs of his ancestors,
and of his nation, in doing the same acts of barbarity, from time
immemoriaH When we talk of conscience, we can hardly in-
clude in its limits the uncivilized barbarian, the savage, or the
Scythian.
Jews and Christians evidently exceed all others, of whatever
part of the world, in conscience ; and yet they lose all semblance
of it in a great many instances.
§ 14. It maybe as true philosophy, that the spirit of God ope-
rates upon the human mind, as that light acts on the eyes. But
we must not lose sight of revelation, and see it superseded by any
philosophy whatever. When we come to extend this operation
of the spirit of God, to all mankind, we are lost in finding it ; and
are obliged to admit that that spirit, which is described in revela-
tion as the prince of the power of the air, is also to be found still
in operation.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 377
§ 15. A Congress, a house of Commons, a house of delegates,
or a house of Assembly, or general Court, may be compared to
the understanding. A Senate, a house of Lords, or Upper House,
and a Court of Justice, may be compared to the moral, the reli-
gious faculty. We suppose, that although the former understand,
that the latter have a better^ a more profound, a more comprehen-
sive understanding. But in this there may be misconceptions in
some instances ; and even v^lien correct in the abstract, there may
be a deficiency in filhng up and carrying out ; for judgment and
justice build solitary cottages. Whereas trifling, indecision,
temerity, insurrection, revolution, and wickedness, are, with hell
and destruction, always full.
StilJ, all this only proves, that the strongest party is against
judgment and justice, and that the majority when it rules, does
not always rule right, although it must, in republican governments,
rule some how or other ; and generally, though slowly, arrive at
right.
Judgment draws upon realities only ; reason extends to an
immense number of other objects, and endeavors to clasp in its
arms the whole human race, and even to include objects unknown,
and unrevealed. Reason is more like Cain, who built the first
city, than like Judgment, who lived in the country.
But the world is like Lord Chatham, who would bestow favors
upon a sprightly fool, rather than upon a man of sense, who was
grave.
Reason is regular in its combinations, precise in its deductions,
and attractive in its demonstrations, but without judgment it fails
in its applications. Genius is far inferior to reason, in all these
things ; but it soars aloft, excites a gaze, and whilst it flies on
reason's wings, which is not long, it sustains its weight. But
neither reason nor judgment are always combined with genius,
and when these leave it entirely to support itself, it fails and falls
to the ground.
Wit and wisdom are two very diflferent things. Wit is allied to
genius, and wisdom to judgment. Genius, considers ; wisdom,
contemplates. Wit and genius are often incongruous ; wisdom
and judgment are always consistent, congruous, and concise.
378 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
But what wisdom, and judgment, and the most comprehensive
understandings, discover from time to time, are only what existed
in the mind of the Deity for ever.
§ 16. Motives, stimulate the will ; objects, the senses ; ambi-
tion and avarice, the desires ; meat, drinks, and condiments, the
corporeal frame. There is no action, either voluntary or involun-
tary, which can be possibly performed, without a stimulus of some
kind or other. Even air inspired, stimulates the lungs to expire
it. And the expiration of air from the lungs, arouses the whole
system to seek for the breath of life, and to breath fresh air in
again.
Edwards, on the will, has been more highly esteemed by some,
than either Reid, Beattie, or Priestly ; but only for the reason that
he buries his subject in deeper obscurity. For with some, an
author that cannot be understood, stands higher than any one who
can be comprehended.
If actions arise altogether from inevitable necessity, the sword,
and the hand, which committed murder, are both equally guilty,
and equally innocent. Reason, in the abstract, we know favors
the doctrine of necessity. But experience, the guide of common
sense—yes all experience is against this doctrine of necessity,
and cries out with one loud and unceasing voice, that the mur-
derer ought to be punished. And so it will for ever cry, with a
voice too loud for visionaries to silence.
§ 17. Man has been defined an anticipating animal, but this
will not distinguish him from some brutes ; for the beaver antici-
pates ; the butcher-bird, which catches insects and flies, and
sticks them on to thorns, to eat at his leisure, and as his appetite
craves, anticipates ; as does the squirrel, which hides nuts in hol-
low trees, and the ant, and indeed every bird that builds herself a
nest.
The memory, is the first of the mental faculties which decays
by age ; but when the memory first begins to decay, the judgment
increases. In extreme old age, however, both fail. An old
w^oman of ninety years, said that she had forgot every thing but
her God. But we now know an old lady of eighty-six, whose
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 379
memory is not impaired. And we knew a revolutionary officer
of upwards of ninety-six, who was a captain in the battle of
Bunker Hill, who could thread a cambric needle without spec-
tacles.
Some Indians do not anticipate so much as some brutes ; for
they will burn their wigwams in the spring, and sell their clothes,
and even their beds in the morning, without any provision for the
next winter or next night.
An old horse knows more than a young one, and a learned
pig is more sagacious than a child of the same age. Animals use
their limbs more, and their heads less, than man.
The more limited the studies of men, the less capacious their
minds ; the more confined their occupations, the more they re-
semble mere machines. Hence a soldier becomes a musket, and
a fisherman a net. Beasts do not perish because they have no
minds, but because their minds were not created for immortality.
§ 18. There was a Paris beggar, the top of whose skull was
knocked oiF, and which he carried about in his hand, to beg money
in. He would suffer physicians to try experiments upon him for
a trifling compensation. By pressure upon the membrane that
covered his brain, all the powers of his mind were destroyed,
until the pressure upon his brain was discontinued. He fell into
an apoplectic sleep, and if standing up fell to the ground, and
slowly recovered when the weight was removed.
The prospect of a battle next day, nor the certainty of death
by execution, does not always prevent repose, nor lessen the hours
of sleep. M. Custini, son of the General of that name, who
was guillotined at Paris, wrote to his wife a few hours before he
was beheaded, that he had slept nine hours the preceding night.
The present writer slept one night at Niagara Falls, and in
that end of the Cataract Hotel that was nearest the mighty won-
der, yet his anticipations of being kept awake were not realized,
for he slept well.
It is said that those who live near the cataracts of the Nile, can-
not sleep at a distance from them, owing to their having become
accustomed to the noise, the stimulus of which they lack upon
the ear.
THE TONGUE OF TIME.
A woman who slept habitually with a candle burning in her
bed-room, suddenly awoke if the light went out.
Some of the soldiers in Buonaparte's army, would sleep, after
extreme fatigue and exhaustion, on the ground by the side of a
twenty-four pounder, which was constantly firing.
The faculties of the mind are changed by sleep, and it is said
of some rogues, that they awake with less vicious propensities ;
but these increase, and return to their former height, when the
temptations of the day are before their eyes.
When troubles distract the mind, it is common for its energies
to be increased, if they are not so heavy as to sink and depress it.
And this acuteness of the mental powers, may continue in sleep,
and give rise to dreams, which have a connection with the waking
thoughts.
§ ] 9. A widow woman in New Jersey, was sued for five hun-
dred dollars, which debt she believed that her husband had paid in
his life time, but she was unable to find any evidence of the fact,
amongst the papers which he had Jeft. In a troubled state of
mind, she dreamed one night that her husband appeared, and told
her that in such a drawer, a receipt might be found for the money.
When she awoke, she searched and found the receipt in the place
pointed out. Now this dreaming might have been but a seeming,
which led to a recollection, that the drawer in which the paper
was, had not been searched.
We have known persons who could not easily distinguish be-
tween their waking and sleeping cogitations ; nor could they
always tell, what was in reality the truth, from what they imagin-
ed to be so. Such persons possess powerful imaginations. They
can hardly distinguish between dreaming and seeming, fancy and
fact. Such persons may lose their characters for veracity, and
still be unconscious of telling untruths. We have known some
bright females of this description, who did not appear as though
nature ever designed them for sleepers or dreamers. They ap-
peared always wide awake themselves, and as if nature had de-
signed them to keep the eyes of the world wide open, in order to
admire their persons, and its ears unstopt, to hear their pithy and
pleasing conversation. But imagination alone, performs some
things in sleep, which it never does awake.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 381
§ 20. Lovers, whose love is fervid and unceasing, exhaust the
subject which so intensely occupies their minds, during their
waking hours. And hence they cannot dream of each other,
when they very much wish so to do. But when their passion
abates, it is perhaps most apt to be renewed in dreams. Hence
ladies must be cautioned when their lovers tell them that they
dream of them, to suspect that the ardor of their passion has
diminished rather than increased.
A mischievous boy pricked a sleeping minister in his back with
a pin ; and it would seem that the mind of the divine was upon
the things of his profession, for he did not awake, but exclaimed,
" Oh ! I now know what St. Paul meant by a thorn in the flesh."
A gentleman got up in his sleep, and as it would appear dress-
ed himself, for he came into the room where his family was, who
had company, and joined very pleasantly in the passing conver-
sation, and even sung a song; when suddenly starting, he awoke,
and this was the first intimation that his companions had, that he
had not been all the time awake. We have this case from Dr.
Rush, as well as that of a young man in Connecticut, who was
subject to fits, in which he sometimes bathed himself, and under-
took some kinds of business, all without coming out of his fit,
and all of which he forgot as soon as the fit was off; but when he
had another fit, he recollected ail about it, and even took up the
business which he had undertaken in his former fit, where he had
left it, and just as it should be. This was another instance of a
double mind, or soul ; one mind and memory whilst in his fits,
and another mind and memory when out of them. The motion
of the fibres, arteries and nerves of the brain, was different from
that of health, hence new ideas, new actions, and new plans of
business, all which vanished when the morbid motion ceased, and
the healthy one returned. These repeated instances of souls, ap-
parently double, prove the intimate connection of the soul with
the brain.
Take away sleep, hope, and a day of rest, and life would be a
thousand fold worse than total annihilation. After the Sabbath,
the mind and the body, with renovated vigor, can accomplish
more than ordinary. It was on account of the injury done to the
33
382 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
constitution, that the decades of France, are said to have been
abohshed. They injured morals, also.
We have one case of palsy upon record, occurring during
sleep, but it is, so far as we know, a solitary one. It was that of
a man who dreamed that one of his legs was turned into stone,
and upon awaking, his leg was found so disabled by palsy, that
he could not move it. This was what Hippocrates called apo-
plexy of the leg.
The mind is apt to be affected by palsy, even if a single limb
only is paralyzed. We had a patient, a clergyman, and one of
the most serious, and free from all levity, of any one, even of his
own profession, that we ever knew. He had a slight shock of
palsy, which affected his tongue, and his speech ; but it produced
a degree of levity, which he sometimes manifested, entirely un-
known before that event.
CHAPTER XII.
SOMETHING OF POLITICS. VATTEL. PATRICK HENRY. JOHN RAN-
DOLPH. VOLCANIC WATERS. THORLAKSON. COMETS. STIMULUS
OF NECESSITY. PHYSIOLOGY. USES OF TH^ SPLEEN.' WOMEN.
WRITING AND PRINTING. CHINA. MUSIC. CONFUCIUS.
§ I. To obtain the lion's part, a man must have a lion's
heart. The want of immediate success, should not discourage
us, nor make us quit the path of principle. Perseverance in a
righteous cause has sustained the world. We must imitate such
a sustaining perseverance, let immediate discouragements be
what they may. He who would do universal good, must survey
the whole universe, and not a part of it. No, not even if that
part be never so bfilliant. A great many houses, and a great
many people, in a small space, should not divert the attention of'
the politician, from a still greater number of houses*, and a more
immense population, more widely spread, more extensively aim-
ing, claiming, and equally entitled, to common benefits. A rock
this upon which many a patriot has split. Affectionate resolves,
for a section, a city, a locality, have often been mistaken for a
resolution to embrace the whole community. The agriculturalist,
the mechanic, the merchant, the manufacturer, the navigator, the
fisherman, the professional man, and the single female, must all
be embraced, or else the political, the patriotic survey, is not
complete. A great city, has often been mistaken for a still greater
country. The language of a great commercial emporium, such
as London, and Paris, and New York, has been fatally mistaken
for the voice of the whole nation. Such mistakes must be sedu-
lously avoided by him who would do good to all, and harm to
none, and maintain k place to do good to any. The dweller upon
salt-water, must not be patronized exclusively, and to the preju-
384 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
dice of the inland population. Salt-water floats ships, but it does
not freight them.
The sugar, the cotton, the corn, wine, oil, and iron, the silver,
silk and gold, must have the dryland, and yeoman's hand, ar else
the empty sail may rot at the wharf.
The rain of heaven falls into the Atlantic, but it responds not
to the gift. It falls upon the thirsty plain, and its gratitude is dis-
played by the springing grass, the yellow corn, and fragrant
flower.
Commerce carries, commerce brings, commerce exchanges, but
labor, on land, produces. When the country fails, which God
made, the city falls, which Cam built. The vicegerent of heaven,
the legislator, must view them both, country and city, as common
stock, as to his care, his protection, his foresight, his study, and
his duty. Each, and all, must come within his political scope.
He must be alive to the land, the sea, the city, the country, the
hand, the head, and the heart. If one system be broken in frag-
ments, another system will tumble down, and the falling ruins will
crush the pretender to protection, and the country too. Even im-
mense mercantile and manufacturing failures, affect a few indi-
viduals, more than they do the country at large. Every rod of
fence that is built, and every house, manufactory, or other build-
ing that is erected, and every acre of ground that is cleared and
cultivated, add to the wealth of the nation, although these things
maybe done with so much extravagance, as to ruin individuals.
It is said that we have become a laughing stock to Europe, on
account of our profession falling so much below our practice.
There seems to be a disposition to imitate the customs and habits
of monarchical countries, in every thing except their mode of
government. Republican simplicity in dress, furniture, build-
ings, and equipage, is not maintained. All these are supposed,
on the contrary, to approach perfection just in proportion as they
assume the models of monarchies.
He or she who can form a matrimonial alliance with any blood
of foreign nobility, arrives at once at the summit of all perfection,
even in pur republican opinions.
The philosophy of money matters, the world never has had a
politician deep enough to dive into. The circulating medium,
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 385
scrip, Stock and exchange, are most wisely left to regulate them-
selves. Not even Adam Smith, in his Wealth of Nations, could
fully develope their intricacies.
We must never forget, that we owe our independence to paper
money. Patrick Henry, whom John Randolph of Roanoke,
termed Shakspeare and Garrick combined, observed that, "How-
ever right it may appear to decry the paper money, it would have
been fatal then ;" [that is, in the time of the revolution,] " for
America," he continues, *'
might have perished, without the aid
and eftect of that circulating medium." Yet to prove what ought
to be done respecting banks, an honorable Senator,* in the United
States Senate, based his argument upon what France and Eng-
land had done. Both these monarchies had prohibited small
bills, therefore, our republic must do the same ! But their laws
in this respect, are evidently designed for the benefit of the few,
and not for the many. The common people neither here nor
there can touch large bills, and to prohibit small ones is taking
away the rights of the many. The English government, at one
time made the Bank of England notes irredeemable except at the
pleasure of the Bank ; the Bank, at the same time, helping the
government to just such sums as it wanted. The play and the
players were thus helping the few, the rich and the strong, which
is the tendency of arbitrary rulers, and is the tendency here of
prohibiting small bills.
Elevated posts, and high-handed measures, in government, are
like the lofty crags of steep mountains, only accessible to eagles
and reptiles.
Right, as Vattel says, goes hand in hand with necessity ; and
necessity, with the voice of the many, will in the end speak so
loud as to be heard. But this voice may be suppressed, till Con-
gress, in the language of Mr. Henry, has blighted every blade of
grass, and every germ of vegetation. The prohibition of small
bank bills, is directly opposed to that clause of our Constitution,
wliich prohibits the enacting of any law, impairing the obliga-
tion of private contract.
* Mr. Benton, of Missouri.
33*
386 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Credit, travels the same road with success, and pubUc prosper-
ity. When these fail, credit sinks, commerce and navigation de-
cline, and bankruptcy, want of employment, with misery, ensue.
These disasters are to be looked for, when politicians and rulers
undertake to meddle with what they do not understand, the regu-
lation of the currency—a matter which must be left, like the laws
of nations, which are voluntary, conventional, and customary,
and only become positive, by consent, use and general utility.
Nor should rehgion ever be touched by statesmen.
Josephus says of Homer, that he never uses any word answer-
able to the word laiv. Wise maxims went far to do away its ne-
cessity ; but the wisest maxims never will do unless they are ob-
served.
Government does all for commerce, money matters, and for re-
ligious matters, which they ask, wish, want, or desire, when it
lets them entirely alone. It affects much good when it touches
them, it effects most good, when it touches them not. A giant's
strength is sometimes best when it reposes. But the world of
thought never rests, and yet to discover new territories within its
precincts, is an effect demanding an effort which few can reach.
Every sailor cannot be a Columbus, because New Worlds are not
every day to be discovered ; but every steersman in the world,
moral, physical, or professional, who is too ignorant, or too indo-
lent, to thoroughly inform himself of the state of navigation, of
the needle, the ocean, the rocks and the quicksands, is accounta-
ble for the consequences.
We must embrace human nature, and physical nature, as sys-
tems. They have systems, just as every tree has a body, though
every tree may not have blossoms.
§ 2. The history of the formation of hills and vallies, merits
a theory, a system. It is a part of Geology, which must be under-
taken. Countries that have mountains, and countries that have
hills, are very different. Mountams are stone, hills are eaith
;
not so exclusively, for some hills, and some mountains, are made
up, not of one ingredient, but of both.
Thorlakson's account of a volcanic mountain, in Iceland,
ought not to be omitted, as it combines the hill, the mountain, the
volcanic fire, and the volcanic water.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 387
Thorlakson, was a minister, and in the midst of his service, on
a Sabbath, he, although an aged man, was alarmed—so much
alarmed that he rushed from his church, and then he saw the peak
of a neighbouring mountain, alternately heaving up and sinking.
The next day this mountain top, ran down into the plain, like
melted lead. The plain rose, and the mountain sunk, so that no
towering mountain could be seen. After the melting of the
mountain, or before, volumes of water were extruded. It was
the Orsefa mountain, one of the loftiest in Iceland. Thorlakson,
did not mean, however, to say that the whole mountain was level-
led, but only that its top disappeared. The waters appear to
have preceded the fire, in such torrents as to sweep every tiling
before them. Fire then burst out, not only from the crater from
which the waters had issued, but from every side of the mountain,
bursting the ice and scattering it about in every direction. Ashes
and smoke darkened the air, and this terrific scene lasted for
more than three days.
§ 3. The stories and pictures of comets have been mere im-
positions upon the public. We have seen a table in the Penny
Magazine, with the years marked, in which comets appeared, or
remained visible. They do not appear to have aff'ected the cold
or the heat of the weather, or the health or sickness of the inhab-
388 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
itants. So much for this vaunted piece of imposture. Comets
are the castings off of inflammable matters from the sun, and
from the other heavenly bodies, and in fact the burning mountains
of the skies ; but at the same time, so far distant as not to affect
the atmosphere with their heat, or human lungs with their gases.
We well recollect that there was one of them in sight during the
extreme cold winter of 1812, It was to be sure a sickly season
in some places ; but if the sickness had been owing to cometary
influence, why, we may query, was not the sickness commensu-
rate in extent, with so general, so continental a cause 1
Comets do not appear to alter the state of the seasons, so as to
affect the crops, or the vintage. They are, as to the productions
of the earth, messengers of neither good nor evil. Time and
chance, happen alike to all men, whether comets are visible or in-
visible. A Mr. Forster, has referred plague and pestilence to
comets ; but we are told that his pretended facts are contradicted
by Littrow, most conclusively. And it is said that in 717, that
there was three years' plague in the East, and that there was
three hundred thousand deaths at Constantinople, but yet there
was no comet at all.* This is most unfortunate for those who
refer all plagues to comets ; and such instances are too numerous
not to set the matter entirely at rest. We hear of no comet in
1793, when the yellow fever carried off upwards of five thousand
persons, in the city of Philadelphia, nor in its various and de-
structive visits to the city of '^ew York. Nor do we learn that the
cholera, so destructive in most parts of the world, from 1817 to
1837, had any such precursor, or accomplice, as a comet.
The stimulus of necessity, prompts the animal to seek for food,
and drink and shelter. This stimulus of necessity arouses to ac-
tion in thousands of ways. Maternal affection, and the sparrow,
which for her young seeks her nest, although pleasurable sensa-
tions may accompany them, may still be considered as acting
under the stimulus of necessity. Did not the mother feed, dress,
warm, and take care of her infant, such horrid agonies would
wrench her breast, as would render attention to those duties im-
* See a decisive article upon this subject in the Penny Magazine, for 1832,
page 291. Decisive, we mean in proof of comets having no earthly influ-
ence.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 389
perative. Hence, necessity compels her to do these duties in
order to avoid the pain which would attend upon their omission,
as well as to enjoy the pleasure of their performance. This stim-
ulus of necessity acts upon the Indian, who finds it necessary for
his peace and comfort, to arise, tomahawk and scalping knife in
hand, and revenge an injury by inflicting desolation, destruction,
and death, upon an enemy.
This stimulus of necessity seems to be instinct, or the same
kind of principle which is so called. It is as manifest in the
vegetable as in the animal. But when we first heard such a kind
of statement, we were incredulous, and felt a shock at its seeming
absurdity. What we are now compelled to admit, to acknow-
ledge as fact, seemed at first the greatest and most absurd of all
falsehoods. But behold the grass in the low meadow, in time of
drought, suffering Just as much as the blade upon high hills ; and
the reason is, upon dissection, or the examination of the roots of
grasses and plants, that the roots in wet ground, run superficially,
horizontally, whilst those in dry ground, run deep and perpen-
dicular.
Behold the young chicken, pecking the shell in which it is in-
closed, and was hatched, in order to get out of prison. And be-
hold the potatoe, which has sprouted and grown in the cellar,
leaning, and always leaning its top towards the nearest window,
or nearest door, in search of light, air and liberty. The turnip
top, the onion top, and other vegetables, which send forth stems,
shoots and sprouts, in cellars, do the same. They all incline to-
wards light, air, warmth, and liberation. They always incline
from the walls of their prison, they never embrace the cellar walls.
This stimulus of necessity is, as John Hunter explains it, such
an alternation, or motion, or change of posture, as a system, or
part of a system, is uneasy without, and requires. Thus we gasp
for breath, we faint, we walk, stand, sit, talk, or are silent, all
from this stimulus of necessity. We expire the air inhaled, and
for the space of a clock tick or two, we rest, without breath-
ing, and then this stimulus of necessity, rises over rest and
repose, and we breathe again ; and upon our breathing again, de-
pends our hfe, for we die without it. Hence, this stimulus of
necessity, acts whilst we deep ; it keeps up breathing, for a person
390 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
asleep, who does not breathe, is dead. It keeps up the beating
of the heart, and the beating of the pulse, for a pulseless person
is a corpse.
We do not act by will whilst we sleep, but the breathing, the
pulse, the motion of the ribs, in respiration, the motion of the
lungs, inhaling and expiring the air, the receiving of the blood into
the ventricles, or hollows of the heart, and the propulsion of it
into the arteries, all arise from this stimulus of necessity, and life
depends upon it.
§ 4. There i§ in all living beings a wish to live, and a propen-
sity to sustain life. As to the mind, will, or thinking part, this
propensity manifests itself in voluntary acts of self preservation.
But the intimate connection betwixt mind and matter, between
the corporeal and mental systems, is here strikingly portrayed,
for the motions of the frame, the movements of the body which
are involuntary, have the same self preserving tendency. Hence
parts corporeal, over which the mind has no control, carry on ac-
tions calculated to sustain and to preserve ; such as producing an
appetite for food, digesting it when taken, turning it into chyle
when digested, and conveying that chyle, which is the milk of
life, into the blood ; sending the blood, by means of the motion of
the heart, into thousands of little canals, called arteries, to every
part of the body, to nourish it, to promote its growth, and to sup-
ply the defects, caused by decay, and disease, and disaster ; for
even a broken bone grows together, by means of the finer parts
of the blood, sent by little hair-like, or capillary channels, which
even enter, pervade, and sustain, the hardest bones. But this
sanative tendency, is in one respect extremely curious, for it
sends fluids to certain parts without any traceable pathway, or
any kind of canal whatever ; and sometimes in this way, rids the
system of purulent, and other hurtful matters.
The roots of the first set of teeth in children, are absorbed and
cast ofi*, and the jaws thus fitted to receive a new set ; whereas, if
nature sent forward a new set without removing the old roots, the
most painful and disastrous consequences would ensue. Some-
times nature does halt and fail in doing her duty and accustomed
work, however ; as we once drew a painful tooth from the lower
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 391
jaw of a boy, which was so firmly rooted that another physician
had given it up, after having tried in vain to extract it. To the
solid roots of this tooth, the soft rudiments of a new tooth were
attached ; the new comer having determined to move in, before
the old occupant had removed out, or made any preparation so
to do.
The sympathetic attributes of the mind, are inherited by the
body. Pain is endured by seeing a child, or an animal suffer,
and by the news of piracy, shipwreck, or other disaster. So the
teeth are set on edge by hearing sounds of a certain kind, and the
mouth made to water at the sight of some delicious viand or fruit.
And the stomach is made sick by tartar emetic, although not ap-
plied directly to it, but at a remote point. The effects of this
medicine, in sickening the stomach, for which it has an intrinsic
propensity, is worthy of notice, as it may remove disease and even
save life, as it did in the following instance.
A woman in London, was choked by a large piece of potatoe,
which lodged in the sesophagus, or passage from the mouth to the
stomach. Nothing therefore could be swallowed. An emetic so
urgently needed, could not be got down. Three hours had elaps-
ed, and no means of relief had been found, when a vein was
opened in the arm, the ulnar vein. A solution of tartar emetic
was made by dissolving three grains of it in an ounce of water.
Of this solution one fourth part was injected into the vein, which
by producing vomiting relieved the suffocating patient immedi-
ately.
This affinity of a medicine for a particular part, is exemplified
in mercury ; for if a mercurial ointment be rubbed into the soles
of the feet it will be carried to the mouth, render it tender, and
increase the saliva, and is smelt in the breath.
The blood is found to contain not only iron but sulphur also ;
the latter existing in that part of the blood which resembles the
white of an egg^ and hence is called albumen. The peculiar
effects of some medicines, and the phenomena of some diseases,
may be referred to the existence of iron and sulphur in the blood.
It also contains a very small proportion of soda.
The strength of animals which have red blood, may be referred
to the iron which it contains. And to increase the strength of
392 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
weakly persons, there is no better medicines than chalybeates, or
those which contain some preparation of iron or steel. Food sus-
tains the blood, and blood sustains the body. In the blood is
life, and the blood itself is alive, and is the only known living
fluid, except we include some secreted matters, which emanate
from the blood.
It is a curious fact in the history of animal nature, that some
things, or at least one ingredient which supports the blood, poisons
the air, so that if it is largely breathed, it is noxious, or fatal.
We here alude to azote, septon, or mephitic air, which is so uni-
versal in alimentary substances, that no animal is capable of liv-
ing long upon articles of food from which it is entirely absent.
This was proved by a French chemist and physician, M. Magen-
die, who fed animals upon substances containing no azote, which
after a while pined away, had an ulcer in their eye, and died.
He gave them distilled water for drink,* and fed them upon sugar,
gum, butter, and olive oil, which articles contain no azote. Azote,
therefore, seems to be a natural condiment, but a condiment
only ; like salt, which animals cannot live without, and cannot
live upon.
Some animals take in seeds, and the kernels of fruits for food,
from which the powers of digestion extract the nutritive oil, but
the kernel is evacuated whole, so that it will grow afterward. It
is thus that the wild olive is produced in France by means of
birds. Turkies, about Marseilles, have been fed upon ripe olives,
and the evacuated seed, or kernels, with the manure, collected and
placed in layers of earth, from which young olive trees sprang.
It is found that the kernel in passing through the bird, is deprived
of its oil, and thus receives the vegetating moisture of the earth
the more readily, and becomes more vigorous ; whilst the animal
is nourished by the oil it extracts. A similar effect may however
be probably obtained, by placing the kernel in the lye of wood
ashes, or a solution of potash.
The plants found on coral islands, are propagated by seeds,
brought in the bodies of birds. For every bird has no internal
* As water contains little animals in abundance, the distilling it kills them.
Hence Magendie's whole mischief.
T«E TONGUE OF TIME. 393
tiiill, in which to grind the corn and kernels which they swallow,
to which, in others, the gizzard answers. Were this the case,
and did not the gizzard sometimes fail of destroying the texture
of grain and of seeds, the propagation of plants could not be
achieved by birds, as the germinating principle would be de-
stroyed.
§ 5. It is remarkable, and perhaps there is hardly a more
striking disparity in man, that some nations and tribes, as the
Chinese, the hordes of gipsies, and the inhabitants of that part of
Africa about the mouth of Orange river, regard the smell of putre-
fying meat as a perfume, and relish it more highly as it ap-
proaches putrefaction ; whilst other nations, and the greater part
of mankind, are disgusted with food having any tendency towards
a taint. And that the latter have appetites the most congenial to
nature, and nature's laws, would seem proved by the stomach
restoring such nauseous and fetid articles, to an entire state of
sweetness. This is done by a juice formed and found in the
stomach. It is a liquid, and which liquid is the principal agent in
dissolving and digesting the food.
The stomach of a dog, as was ascertained by the repeated ex-
periments of Dr. Fordyce, would sweeten in a short time, the
most putrid meat, which the dog could be made to swallow.
This experiment may be tried by fastening the meat to be swal-
lowed, with a string, and after a certain time withdrawing it from
the dog's stomach.
This remarkable stomach liquor, called the gastric juice, has
therefore the power of arresting mortification. And by making
certain carnivorous birds swallow sponge, and then by means of
a string withdrawing it, and then squeezing out this juice, a suffi-
cient quantity of it has been obtained to be applied to bad sores
and ulcers upon the human body. It may be considered a power-
ful remedy in arresting the progress of mortification ; especially
if aided by bark and opium internally exhibited, at the same time.
As it is the principal agent in digestion, it has been sometimes
administered internally in cases of weak stomach, and dyspepsia.
The solvent powers of the gastric juice, were remarkably ex-
emplified in the fellow, who out of hardihood swallowed seventeen
34
394 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
clasp-knives ; the handles being found partly dissolved, and the
edges of the knives blunted, after his death ; for he died in conse-
quence. That such a powerful solvent should not dissolve the
stomach itself, is a startling query. And that such is sometimes
the case when the stomach suddenly loses its energy, whilst the
gastric juice retains its full vigor, cannot be controverted. But it
is wisely ordained that it does not act upon living, as it does upon
dead matters ; which is proved by leeches and snakes having been
accidentally swallowed in water, and having lived and rapidly
grown, in the stomach ; and also by the generation and growth
of intestinal worms, which the gastric juice does not affect until
they are dead.
Still, it is to be considered, that when a part of the stomach
loses its vitality, that it may be eroded and ulcerated. And we
hence account for the appearances discovered in the stomach of
Buonaparte, which were imputed to cancer. Depression of mind,
and loss of spirits, have a great effect upon the stomach, in under-
mining its digestive powers. Buonaparte, after having been
precipitated from the throne of Europe on to a secluded island,
and from an Emperor becoming a prisoner, we may well suppose,
labored under the depressing passions, in a high degree ; espe-
cially, as he was separated from a young wife and infant son
;
from the most brilliant city and fascinating society in the world
;
that of Paris.
But let the cause be what it may, it is only when the solvent
powers of the gastric juice are diminished, that we can expect to
ever hear of cherry-stones, or plumb-stones, sprouting in the
stomach or bowels. Such instances have rarely, and but rarely,
ever happened ; the intestinal canal being then reduced to a state
similar to that of other cavities of the body, in which there never
was any gastric juice. And we may mention that we have our-
selves extracted a bean from a child's nose, which had begun to
germinate, it having been lodged there for the space of a fortnight.
We had another patient, a poor fellow who often had fits, and who
was seized with an incessant puking, which nothing could stop or
control, till he threw up the cause. This proved to be a tadpole,
an inch and a quarter long, which in drinking at a muddy spring
the day before, he had swallowed.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 395
The saliva of the mouth, sufficiently resembles the gastric juice,
and appears, when swallowed, to have the like effect, and to assist
in dissolving the food. It is from this circumstance that those
who chew tobacco freely, and who spit lavishly, are liable to indi-
gestion and dyspepsia. And it may be owing to something having
been noticed of the resolvent powers of the saliva, that a popular
remedy for carrying away and discussing tumors, consists in
wetting them with fasting spittle.
The bile in men and mammals^ is yellow when healthy, and
is a powerful assistant in digestion. After the gastric juice has
dissolved the food, the bile precipitates the offal, or fecal matters,
or those parts which cannot with propriety and salubrity enter the
blood vessels, and mix with the blood. These, with itself, are
thrown out together as useless to the body, but retain the color of
the bile. That the bile does not enter the lacteals, is owing to
their closing their delicate and irritable mouths, when touched by
its acrimony. But intemperance may destroy this delicate touch
of the lacteals, and absorbents, so that they may admit the bile,
and turn the wine-bibber yellow. This we have often known.
Diseases may produce the like effect ; hence the yellowness of the
skin and eyes in jaundice. In some diseased states of the system,
the bile may become black. And in a man who had an ulcer in
his side, in the region of the liver, from which the bile discharged
outwardly, it was yellow when he was good natured, but if he
suddenly became angry^ the bile as suddenly became green. As
he was of a passionate temperament, his friends had frequent
opportunities of witnessing this curious phenomenon.
The bile of the cuttle-fish, is supposed by Dr. Monro, to be
naturally black. ^
For this fish, when it is pursued by an enemy,
discharges a black liquor, which so darkens the water, that under
the shades of its own night, it escapes its pursuers. We have an
opinion, however, that this black color is the result of terror, or of
anger, and that the bile of the fish is not naturally black. At
any rate there is no disagreement upon one point, which is, that
it is the means which nature has afforded it, of self preservation,
and that it voluntarily ejects this black liquor, to protect itsel^
and escape destruction, by darkening the waters.
* Animals which nurse their young by milk, are called mammaU.
396 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
The bile may act as natural physic. By its antiseptic qualities,
it may prevent gangrene in the bowels and fermentation in the
food ; and it may convert the mucus, or refuse matter of the chyle,
which is not good enough to be mixed with the blood, and yet too
good to be cast away, into fat
!
This last effect may be performed in that part of the alimentary
canal which is situated transversely, and which is called the colon.
And the use of the omentum, and its action, are thus placed in
the neighborhood of light, where they are considered as absorbing
and retaining this fatty matter, thus formed ; whereas, darkness
has long reigned over this whole region of the human body.
It is thus that systems have their minute subdivisions, so nicely,
so minutely constructed, that their uses have puzzled many men
of science. The spleen, is especially one of those parts, which
having no duct, or outlet, has much been an object of speculation
and inquiry. Let it be considered that nature formed it as one of
her exuberant benefices, which is of less eveiy day use than
many other parts. But in sickness, in those raging and sweeping
epidemics, which like plague, yellow fever, and cholera, carry off
their thousands, and scores of thousands, it may, by being a
reservoir for bad blood, contribute to preserve some lives from the
general wreck and ruin. The impure, black, and if we may be
allowed the term, menstruous, or uncoagulable parts of the blood,
being secreted from the general mass, by the spken, and retained
in it, which if suffered to pervade the whole volume of blood, or if
suffered to annoy the more noble viscera, would, in such sickly
seasons, be still more destructive of human life. And agreeably
to this theory, the spleen is actually found to contain a dark livid
colored blood, which will not coagulate readily, if at all. Blood
which coagulates, it may be remarked, is the only healthy blood.
It is thus that providence provides for the security of a part, at
least, of the human family, amidst the greatest, the most immense
devastations. But let it be considered further, in relation to the
spleen, that it is connected by immediate coaptation with the
stomach ; and that the stomach is the centre of universal sympa-
thy to the whole body, and its appetites, aversions, and senses—
a
sickness of that organ being produced by loathsome sights and
fetid smells ; a puking, from a blow on the head ; a faintness from
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 397
pain, even of a part so distant as a finger or a toe ; and indiges-
tion and loss of appetite, from a piece of bad news, or the sight of
a house on fire. A part which has such universal sympathies,
ought to have an adjunct at hand, to sustain it, and to contain
every drop of bad blood, which its substance, or its vessels, might
contain. And such it has in the spleen. Such is the spleen to
the stomach.
§ 6. The most mysterious part of physiology, as it relates to
the human voice, is the art of the ventriloquist, who utters sounds
without moving the lips or cheeks, or breathing through the
mouth.* This is almost as strange as a statement lately made,
of an unborn infant having been heard to make a whining noise ;
and is another kind of ventriloquism !
That curious part of animal machinery, the glottis, must here
be studied in order to develope this intricacy of ventriloquism.
And after all, the voice of the ventriloquist, seeming to emanate
from another body besides his own, is not void of mystery, and
would seem to demand some other explanation than the usual one,
that sound consists alone in the vibrations of the air. A stone
thrown into water, several fathoms deep, may be heard to emit a
sound, when it strikes another stone at the bottom. How then
can sound be made to depend upon the agitation of air, when it
travels through water?
Again, as in borborygm, or a rumbling in the bowels of animals,
it would seem impossible for the air to be put into vibration exter-
nally, by so obscure and confined a motion. And the beating of
the heart, which is secured and covered by the walls of the thorax,
and strictly inclosed in an air-tight sac, called the pericardium,
may still be distinctly in some, and even in a great many instan-
ces, heard to beat plainly.
§ 7. We once had a patient, and her case was a very singular
and obscure complaint in the head, who upon moving it in a cer-
tain manner, could produce a snap beneath the scalp, probably
occasioned by the motion of some bone of the cranium having been
* Dr. Good. See his Physiological Proem to Class 11.
34*
398 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
loosened by her long disease. And yet she had no dropsy internal
nor external of the part. And that any bone could possibly have
been loosened, considering their security by sutures, and not by
joints, is not easy to comprehend. It gave her some uneasiness to
do it, but I convinced myself by repeated examinations, of this sin-
gular fact, which I can account for in no other way than by suppo-
sing that the sutures around a piece of one of the parietal bones
had become loosened ; and that it still adhered to the dura-mater
internally, and to the scalp externally, and that the motion of the
head so moved the bone, as to make the noise. She died after an
illness of more than twenty years, aged fifty. No examination
was made after death, which is very much to be regretted.
But in relation to the subject of sounds, the query still recurs,
how, upon the Newtonian theory, it could put the air in motion,
externally, so as to reach the drum of the ear, when the cause
may have been beneath the bones of the skull, and was, at any
rate, within the thick scalp or skin of the head, well covered with
a fine head of hair.
If we are not entirely in the dark, and at sea, upon this subject,
our theory is hardly sufiiciently matured to be entered upon just
now. We will only just hint, that sound appears to be a peculiar
volatile substance, thrown ofi* by concussion, and that this sub-
stance meets another, which is constantly formed and emitted by
the internal ears of those who can hear. Whilst in those that are
deaf, the ear has lost the power of secreting and emitting the audi-
tory rays of hearing, and therefore does not hear.
If sound be not substance, why should thunder shake the house,
several seconds after the lightning has been seen, and which has
disappeared without making our domicil tremble "?
And if the
ear does not secrete and emit auditory rays, how should deaf per-
sons hear, by holding a pipe or wire in their mouths, one end of
which rests upon a harpsichord.; which wire answers as a substi-
tute to the auditory rays, or lines, which are not formed by the
ears of deaf persons. If sound was alone a concussion of the air,
why should a pipe, or a wire, or a stick, or a log, conduct it? It
is easy to see that the Newtonian theory cannot be maintained,
whatever substitute it may eventually have.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 399
§ 8. We are ready and willing to admit, that Sir Walter
Scott has settled all the points in novel writing. All love stories,
and romance matters, have, therefore, no need of any new en-
chanter to try to settle what is settled already. We have wonder-
ed to see attempts, upon a mean scale, which have already been
exhausted upon a magnificent one. Yet so the world and its
matters stand, that he who loves now, thinks that no one ever
knew of love before.
As he who prognosticates evil, seldom proves to be a false
prophet, so he that talks of love, can always gain hearers. But
of science no prophet prophecies, because it is a thing of profound
investigation and practical experiment ; and he who talks of it,
will often find the bare walls his only auditors ; and walls not like
those of Paris, which are said to have ears—he will have no
listeners under the windows, nor behind the arras.
As we have mentioned the subject of sound, the query arises,
how, if sound only arises from a concussion in the air, why it
happens, that a muslin night cap, if it happens to be tied over the
ear, or a silk cravat, when tied round the neck, if tied so high as
to touch the ear, causes a disagreeable teasing sound, which in-
duces the person to alter the situation of those articles of dress,
before he can either sleep or study. This we have often experi-
enced in our own person.
A bug, which flew into a lady's ear in the evening, caused a
sound, as she described it, more terrific than the loudest thunder.
She painted the sensations which it caused as intolerable, but
more from the noise than from any absolute pain. A candle
being raised near the ear, in order to examine it, the bug, attract-
ed by the hght, flew out, to her great relief. In such, or similar
cases, a feather dipped in honey and introduced into the ear, will
stop the buzzing, and may extract the insect, or any other extrane-
ous substance, such as a shot, pea, or kernel of grain, which
children sometimes introduce. Where the substance does not
adhere to thin honey, that which is thickened by age, or candy
may be used in stead. Oils, that are tenacious, or balsams, may
be tried where honey is not at hand. This lady thought she
should have gone crazy, had she not been soon relieved, by the
removal of the bug.
400 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Apoplexy is the disease of great men. It is very prone to at-
tack people as they are about to get into a vehicle of conveyance,
or to mount a horse. Sheriff Abbe died suddenly in this way, in
Connecticut ; so did Mr. Jonathan Little, of the city ofNew York ;
so did his Hon. Judge Bristol of 'New Haven ; and so did Mr.
Kirk Boot, at Lowell, Massachusetts. Mr. Boot was the founder
of Lowell. .
§ 9. Wherever we find Christianity, we find mercy, except
where we find Christians arrayed in hostility against each other.
We have now before us an account from Mexico, of the Monks
having arrested the arm aimed at murdering all foreigners. We
are pleased to hear, that those who show any signs of life so sel-
dom as these lazy monks, show it in a good cause.
Good thoughts are like good land, unplanted, unseeded, un-
tilled. The land may be good, but it is, when it produces nothing,
good for nothing.
These Monks had the good soil of the Christian religion about
them, and when it bore fruit, it yielded an hundred fold, although
it long before had lain fallow.
Seneca said, that he should rather be sick and confined to his
bed, than unemployed. But either confinement or pain is to be
preferred to employment in vexatious, and perplexing, and uncer-
tain lawsuits. When justice costs more than it is worth, it is best
not to buy it. This, however, relates to legal justice. Moral
justice is of another kind, and must be had at all events, even if
ever so dearly bought.
§ 10. There is not a better commentary upon worldly wisdom
than this, that Behoboam was the son of Solomon, and that the
wise man himself died an idolator.
Voltaire tells us, that he that is beloved by a beautiful woman,
has nothing to fear. He ought, notwithstanding, to have remem-
bered Solomon, and to have feared of becoming an idolator, or a
bundle of eccentricities, by female influence.
Adam Clarke, speaks of an old author, who says " knowledge
that is not applying, is only like a candle which a man holds to
light himself to hell."
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 401
Worldly wisdom, however great, cannot be trusted to construct
a candle for itself, which shall light the road to heaven ; and it is
a curious fact in human history, that those who enjoy the extreme
of prosperity, or suffer the extremity of adversity, are seldom
found in that road. The former fly, and the latter sink, into for-
bidden paths.
An Irish woman said of her pretty little daughter, that it was
not for the want of bating, she was so bad ; and this might be
true, and much beating may have been the very reason why she
was so bad. Harsh and cruel punishments, degrade both old and
young, below the paths of duty. The Quakers, who dispense
with all punishments, are a very moral people. They are very
careful not to do the devil's drudgery for him, that of punishing.
This they leave him to do for himself. There are some persons
who spend so much time in talking about reforming the world,
that they never do any thing at all towards reforming it, or them-
selves. If every one takes care to reform one, the world will be
reformed.
There are some persons in the world who pray without devo-
tion, and sin without sensibility. The man who exhibited his
knees callous, by the time and times which he had spent on them
in prayer, displayed the same desire for notoriety, as did the Phar-
isee, who prayed standing at the corner of the streets. Those
who pray in secret, do not tell of it in public, nor show their cal-
lous knees as a sign of devotion, in private.
When men run after new things, their prejudices do not always
run with them ; and when they find that one new thing does not
comport with their old prejudices, they throw it aside, and away
they fly after another, which they hope to find better suiting them.
It is thus that prejudice, like Scotch grapes, is seldom quite ripe ;
and if ever ripe, it is ripe out of season, and only ripe in error
and sourness. The man of prejudice and gloom, is for violence
in politics, and intolerance in religion. Such think little of the
fragility of the human frame. That half a bushel of bullets may
be shot into the left side of an enemy, without killing him, he is
willing to admit, but as to himself, he will believe that the flash of
an unloaded pistol has endangered his life. Like Herod, illiberal
prejudice will poison the air of an infant's cradle ; and for fear of
402 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
being poisoned himself, he will murder the infant, and the whole
Holy Land of infants.
One of the very greatest of all modern writers,* says of the
theory of Gall and Spurzheim, that it is too ridiculous even to be
laughed at. We merely speak here, to give our opinion of one of
the greatest of writers, and of two of the greatest of fools ; and
yet the latter are ten times as popular as the former, and twenty
times as often mentioned.
§ 1 1. It is a curious fact that in lately opening a British tumuli
of antiquity, that some small seeds were discovered in the region
of the stomach of a skeleton, which must have been eaten and
lain two thousand years. Some of these seeds were planted by
Professor Lindley, which germinated, produced briers, and this
briery shrub, produced fruit, which proved to be the common
raspberry.
A painful industry is necessary, in order to lay before a reader
what it is important for him to see. An author must, therefore,
lean against a pyramid, if he would not fall, and be regular as the
sun, if he would shine at all.
A great city is a place for notoriety, display, and a luminous
evolution of such talents as a man possesses, let them be of what-
ever kind they may ; or, on the other hand, it may be a cover for
individual obscurity, and a retreat, uninterrupted, and dark as
a dungeon, for such as do not wish to be known, sought, or
heard of.
The reckless, the idle, and the profligate, like the Italian no-
bleman, who turned gambler, and became murderer, when con-
fined in prison, and a halter awaited him, refer their misery to the
withholding of their friends—friends who have assisted them with
their substance, advised them, prayed, wept, and suffered all but
death and destitution for them.
When Napoleon was dealing out crowns, mitres, and batons,
his heart was wrung, his sensibilities aroused, his hfe endangered,
and he called a monster, because he would not deal out more of
the same materials.
* See Lacon, page 74.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 403
The honesty of poHcy—the departure from principles profess-
ed—of creeds once admitted, and of dogmas once firmly embra-
ced, maybe defended, as Mustapha defended his departure from
Christianity, to Mahomedanism, to save his life. He thought it
better to trust a merciful God with his soul, than unmerciful
wretches with his body. This was his defence to his friends for
turning Mahometan.
No man ever started as a teacher of truth, without informing
his pupils that he himself was still an inquirer after it.
§ 12. Has the soul changed its seat 1 We have spoken of
persons with two souls. Rachel Baker had a waking soul of no
extraordinary powers. There was nothing in the young woman
of any striking import. She was rather retiring in her manners,
unsociable, unobtrusive, unaspiring, unassuming. But in her
sleep, her sleeping soul had a wonderful, a marvellous, a prepon-
derating, an overwhelming, pre-eminence—a pre-eminence which
towered over all her living cotemporaries, in prayer and praise,
and over her waking self, in all things relating to Christ, Chris-
tians, and Christianity.* There is no form of prayer, no formula
of exhortation, no forms of expression, relating to the Christian
system, so exalted as hers, since St. Paul the apostle.
But has the soul changed its seat, and does it alternate between
the head and heart ? The Bible—the law, prophets, evangelists,
apostles, and epistles, all refer the soul to the heart. The thoughts
of his heart were evil continually, is in the first book of the Bible,
and St. Paul has told us that out of the heart proceed murmur-
ings ; whilst all the modern creation, Christian, Jewish, Pagan,
Mahomedan, and Papistical, refer the thoughts of man, not to the
heart, but to the head ; and with them join all men of medicine,
physicians, physiologists, surgeons, practitioners, prescribers,
anatomists, and even apothecaries.
Such being the case, the startling proposition of a person with
two souls, is to be met and matched, with the paramount authori-
ty of the soul being seated in two places ; or according to the re-
ligious ancients, inhabiting the heart, and according to the Chris-
* We should transcribe, but we observe that the copy right is secured.
404 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
tian moderns, inhabiting the head. If, therefore, the science of
double souls is new, the double seat of the soul may be alleged as
a doctrine of very great antiquity. The antiques on one side, re-
ferring the soul to the heart, and on the other to the head.
§ 13. To be neither believed, rewarded, nor praised here, is
often the fate of him who does a disinterested act of virtue ; and
what of futurity 1 what of an hereafter 1 Why, he who boasts
of his benevolence, is to lose, in a coming world, all recompeuce
there also. Alms-giving, and deeds of charity, must, therefore,
be only published to the world by the receiver, not at all by the
donor.
§ 14. A man may have physical courage, judicial courage,
and lion-hearted courage, without knowing any thing of that
moral courage, which fortifies the soul, and especially the female
soul, against adversity.
§ 15. It is one of the astonishing things of the world, to see
and to hear the aspirations of pride and ambition—ambition of
great debts—pride of being bound for great houses—liabilities for
contracts, more than the surety or principal is able to pay—talk-
ing of tens of thousands as mere trifles, such are some of the
displays of pride ; and it may be added that such kind of fame,
as that derived from being bound for great houses, will establish
a man's financial credit.
§ 16. There are those who sail the crystal seas in search, pre-
tendedly, for heaven, who are yet very careful not to lose their
sight of land. Spiritual things are always in their mouths, but
temporal things forever present in their acts, and apparently up-
permost in their hearts. Saints on Sunday, and demons on
Monday.
§ 17. Notwithstanding the variety of anecdotes which have
been given of Buonaparte, and the great number of commenta-
tors who have written of Shakspeare, every emanation from
either source, comes freighted with wisdom. They were charac^
THE TONGUE OF TIME* 405
ters who banished folly from their personal atmosphere. Wise
men have their follies, and brave men their fears. The excep-
tions are so few, that Shakspeare and Napoleon are the more
worthy of notice. And in this connection, it is worth considera-
tion, that the greatest writer in the English language, knew no
other language than the English.
§ 18. The most enchanting, the most fascinating beauties,
change in the features and modes of their charms, but are still
forever charming. There are other beauties, like April days.
They have bright suns, but clouds and showers of rain, range so
near in their neighbourhood, that a change of the weather for the
worse, is ever to be apprehended. How wrung and how twisted
has been the heart of him, who has left one of these fairy forms,
in angel smiles, with cherub eyes, and an elysian atmosphere
around her, to meet her the very next time, looking like a fallen
angel—sullen and pouting, nobody could guess for what, and her-
self unable to tell. Such are the disasters of love.
Red earth, of which man was made, and which, according to
Josephus, is the purest of all, irrigated with blood, breezed with
blushes, variegated with lily white, moving like the gazelle,
shining like the beams of the morning, in all the glory of the
East, such is a beautiful woman. Still, it is the spirit alone,
which enlivens the female countenance divine, with beams of
heavenly bliss. It is the spirit that keeps this beautiful mansion
of blushes, swept and garnished. It is a spirit, a mind, a soul,
controlled, cultivated, expanded, but always adapted to the varie-
gated varieties of times, seasons, and circumstances, that consti-
tutes the summit of excellence, the acme of perfection in woman.
Where such a spirit reigns, its fair possessor is sure to gain, and
sure to keep, the world in admiration. If such an one pelts, she
does not pout, and her peltings are with guineas ; the golden
surfaces of which, cures all the wounds which their edges had
made.
Relations and lovers take the most liberties, but render the best
assistance. The eye of a relation is never shut closely, and the
eye of a lover is never shut at all ; and the hands of both are
prone to be opened according to their ability.
406 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Lacon, thinks that women with reason somewhat weaker than
men, have passions somewhat stronger. We think that it must
be a special pleader with a great fee, to so contend, and a preju-
diced judge, with a brilliant bribe, to so decide. There never lived
a woman who was not inclined to virtue once, nor never did she
deviate, when the fault existed wholly in herself.
There is a vulgar, uneducated, inexperienced, reckless set of
boobies in the world, who always talk of women contrary to all,
that mothers, wives, sisters, or lovers, or daughters, ever justified,
or that can be sanctioned by those who have studied with fidelity
the female character.
It is true that when women fall, they fall like Lucifer ; and it is
for that very reason, that there are comparatively few that fall.
A great many women become the objects of slander, by the viru-
lence of the few who trip, of their own sex, and by the large
number of the other sex who are foiled. There are to be sure,
women in the world, who have no virtue now, but they can only
be considered as the relics of virtue that once existed. We can
hardly contemplate Christianity without contemplating women in
its connection.
" Each conquest owing to some loose advance,"
was a line written by Lady Mary Wortley Montague, of her own
sex. But we do not believe her ladyship, for, indeed, we know
better, as does every one who has had much experience with the
sex.
§ 19. Envy and love, and delight and despair,
Are passions that ever are hankering—where ?
A very dark cloud now happens to blind,
Q,uite shutting the light from what we would find.
Distinctness of vision is lost by the eyes,
That keep not their ken on the sex and the size.
There are milhons of eyes, for thousands of years,
Which have took in the light, and paid out the tears.
Who has not seen air, as 'tis flitting away,
O'er a heated stove, on a cold winter's dcy ?
He who has seen air, which is not to be seen,
May now without doubt, discern what we mean.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 407
And that indefinable thing he may find,
Which no one e'er knew, but is called woman's mind !
Distinguished is not, all that is in sight,
The eye not itself can discern by the light.
Sick persons who pick at their bed-clothes, suppose
Intruders are there, to blast their repose.
There are some so corrupt in sin and in lies.
The devil can scarce make worse if he tries.
A melodious voice is ever on wing,
As sunshine and flowers develope the spring.
§ 20, A lantern composed of little brass wire.
Will take up the heat of its candle on fire,
And so nullify flame, that fire-damp and gas,
Will not be ignited though round it they pass.
^ He who has a mind, may liken this scene.
To her who is sitting at home as a queen,
But sends not her flames abroad like a gale,
To conquer, or flutter, or wreck the heart's sail.
Tho' in are the flames, the full glare of light,
Is out, and abroad, dispelling the night.
The light of the lamp enlightens the mine,
Yet heats not, nor burns not, contented to shine.*
^ 21. The thorns of our lives are ten to the roses,
Then less the regret when death interposes.
Yetlive whilst you live—was the preacher's award,
And who that is wise, will this disregard ?
^22. Join not with your friend, when he censures his wife,
Unless they 're about to be parted for life.
Nor question his watch for the true time of day,
Nor dispraise his horse, unless bargained away.
Unsafe is the conquest that conquers a friend.
More safe are the boons which to ingrates extend.
^ 23. In the annals of time we hear of ripe grain,
Descending from heaven like copious rain,t
* The safety lamp of the miners, was the invention of Sir Humphrey Davy,
and is by them called a Davy. The fire damp was sometimes exploded with
terrible violence and destruction of life, by carrying a naked candle into mines.
This is now prevented by a wire-gauze cage, or lantern, inclosing a lamp. A
very great discovery, is thus simple. Some of the gas will enter the brass
wirelamp, or gauze-cage, and be consumed therein ; but the flame is so cooled
by the cage that it will not explode the fire-damp without.
t Chinese fable.
408 THE TONGUE OF TIJUE.
And what was the cause of joy thus displayed,
That corn was sent down without culture or blade ?
'Twas not that the laws below were complete,
'T was not that for praise, many mortals might meet,
Nor yet for that splendid and glorious cause,
That wrested the world from barbarous laws;
'Twas not that cities were built and supplied,
That marshes were drained ; states and empires allied
;
But this was the cause, this truth was presented,
That WRITING and printing vvere now first invented I
'Twas at this, that heaven and earth were elated.
And mortals towards gods became elevated.
The joy of the heavens to earth was expanded,
To rain down the wheat, the clouds vvere commanded.
Mankind, before rough, unpolished, and rude,
Were now with the means of improvement endued,
A winged intercourse, by paper and letter,
Made knowledge and news, and science its debtor;
Polite intercourse, and business and lover,
How great was the gift ! they all soon discover.
Now reason and justice, vvere taught and were spread,
In regions from which their semblance had fled.
The laws became fixed ; uncertain before,
They floated like wrecks on the ocean's wide roar.
The judge had his rules, by which to decide.
The scholar his grammar, by which to abide
;
Historians ground, on which they might stand,
Astronomers stars, which came at command ;
Logicians formed rules to reason aright,
Which rhetoric ranged in a silver-tongued light
;
Mathematics were fixed by figures and rules,
And scholars had books, and masters had schools ;
The first map was formed, and on paper the grounds,
Of him who held land, might be known with its bounds;
All painted and gilded, on platters and vases.
Were provinces traced, with lines in their places ;
Next rules were devised, for the tongue and the throat,
The gamut was formed, with the bar and the note ;
At music sublime, pathetic and sweet,
Confucius was charmed to forgetting to eat.
When music was known, soon painting had place,
With the colors, and lines, and looks of the face ;*
* The Chinese legends refer to the ancient monarch Yu, as having drained
the waters of the deluge, and divided his empire into nine grand divisions, and
one hundred and seventy-three kingdoms. All lying beyond these, were re-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 409
The all colored art, drew frowns, fears and smiles,
Showing all but the heart, with its freaks and its wiles.
The kingdom of Hades screamed out in affright,
At sight of a world that could read and could write,
All jangle and jargon, at once it was thought,
With murder and theft, would now come to nought
;
The prisons no more would groan with their loads,
Of wretches all fit for infernal abodes ;
The gambler, the quack, and the swearer who lied,
Would now be no better than dogs that had died ;
The dwellers infernal, exclaimed one and all,
None ! none ! will come here, and our empire must fall
;
But Satan undaunted, observed with a sneer.
That writers would wrangle, and writs would appear.
Had writing been not, the facts of the flood,
Might be but a tale of a deluge of blood ;
Of forty days rain of purple and gore.
Which floated the ark, and the earth covered o'er
;
Of mountains which saw above them the dead.
Afloat on a sea of carnation and red ;
And when the winds blew, and when roared the flood.
The dash of the waves and the spray, were of blood ;
A roaring red sea, of unnatural sound.
Like coflins let down into graves in the ground.
Those clouds which hang over Nile's shores to this day,
Had writing been then, had been banished away ;
garded as outside nations. The nine grand departments had each a grand vase,
upon which was painted, by the imperial mandate, the boundaries, subdivis-
ions, and statistical details, of the grand department to which it related. By
this process, the boundaries of the kingdoms and nations of the empire became
fixed and permanent.
Astronomy was early cultivated in China, and made the basis of state-rights
and ceremonies, as the celestial empire was designed to be as fixed and orderly
in its government, as were the heavenly bodies in their motions. The philoso-
pher Confucius was so ravished with the charms of music, that for three
months he did not perceive the relish of food, declaring that he could have no
conception of such perfection in sounds. It is a very curious fact in the na-
tional character of the Chinese, that the knowledge of sounds, and the science
of music, is supposed to be closely connected with the science of government.
The modern dynasties are considered degenerate, because they do not, in this
respect, come up to the ancients. This matter is even carried so far, that
those are thought unfit for rulers who do not understand music. Geography is
of very ancient date among the Chinese, and printing, gunpowder, and paper^
more ancient than in any other pari of the known world.
35*
410 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
Those mountains so grand, that they darken the air
With glorious gloom,—who erected them there ?
Not Moses has told; nor the use nor the space
;
All still are unknown, to history's disgrace.
Ere writing was taught, or ere fell the flood,
We ken that those wonderful pyramids stood
;
When oxen were known as mammoths for size,
And giants for men, to lift rocks to the skies.
Five hundred feet high, such stones are there found.
That modern men fail to move on the ground ;*
And tho' round them now, vast deserts are seen,
Before the flood washed on the sands, all was green :
Those mountains of art, the world's greatest wonder.
The deluge withstood, and earthquake and thunder,
No element crash can engulph or derange.
Or time's blasting hand, or barbarians change
;
Defeated the power which avarice sent,
Dismayed all the aid that the curious lent,
Whilst Athens and Rome, have felt the fell crash,
And low lie their columns by earthquake and flash.
* Sir Robert Wilson.
CHAPTER XIII.
SOME FURTHER NOTICE OF THE SLEEPING PREACHER. DIFFERENT
OPINIONS OF HER SLEEPING AND WAKING SOUL, AS EXHIBITED BY
HERSELF. THE GYMNOSOPHISTS. HEROD THE GREAT. CASE OF
WILLIAM BLATCHFORD, JR. WOMEN BEARING CHILDREN AT SIXTY
YEARS OF AGE.
§ 1. The case of Rachel Baker, whose sleeping soul preach-
ed excellent sermons, and made excellent prayers, but whose
waking soul could do nothing of the 'kind, nor remember nothing
that her sleeping soul had said or done, merits a further reference.
It is one of those cases in which what is floating upon the mind,
becomes concentrated, vivil and luminous, although whilst afloat,
all was unsettled, and bore a nearer relation to darkness than to
light. Every person has had ideas and sometimes very valuable
ones, which have been in the clouds, until some accident, sugges-
tion, or intense application, had brought them into a fixed and
available position, state or situation. Reading, friends, fear,
wine, joy, diseases, and sleep, may be adduced, as the most
prominent agents in these developements of man, matter and
mind.
It is discreditable to our taste in this country, that works
of fancy and fiction, should supplant such an extraordinary case
as that of Miss Baker. There are perhaps, few persons among
us of mature years, who would not think it derogatory to them,
to have it supposed that they were unacquainted with the novels
of Sir Walter Scott; yet here is a veritable account of a young
woman, whose performances were more extraordinary than any
thing that Sir Walter Scott relates, and which is attested by some
412 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
of the first characters* ia the city of New York, and yet the case
is known to but few.
The cases of Nancy Hazard, Miss M'Evoy, Jane C. Rider,
and Mrs. Cass, are if possible still more astonishing and curious.
And they ought to be known to all, as opening a wide vista to the
inmost recesses of the human mind. Nor can animal magnetism
supersede them.
Miss Baker was about twenty years old, when her extraordina-
ry faculty of sleep-preaching, was displayed in New York. Al-
though she denied that it was sleep, but insisted that she was wide
awake, yet when awake, she remembered nothing that had passed.
Dr. Mitchell says, that in confirmation of her being awake, she
on one occasion, described in vivid and glowing strains, the spec-
tacle then bright in her view. This consisted of angels, saints,
and the souls of just men made perfect. They were ministenng
before the throne of the Almighty, clothed in robes, white as
snow.
Another remarkable particular, and strikingly indicative of the
disparity between her two souls, was, that in the sermons of her
sleep, she acted under the persuasion that it was the duty of those
who are renewed by all merciful grace, to direct poor wanderers
to the straight and narrow path ; and this doctrine she held in her
sleeping conversation ; whilst at the same time, her waking belief
was, that it was not apostolical for a woman to be a public
preacher, or teacher in holy things. She had at about the age of
fourteen, joined the Presbyterian church in Onondaga county,
N. Y. ; but becoming uneasy in her mind, she about two years
afterward, submitted to submersion, and became a member of the
Baptist church.
When she insisted that she was wide awake, her eyes were
accurately closed, and there was no signs of winking, which
* The account was drawn up by the Hon. Samuel L. Mitchell, M. D. Sena-
tor in the Congress of the United States, and is attested by the following pro-
fessional gentlemen, whose names and celebrity are sufficient to fix the stamp
of truth and merit iipon any publication or statement to which they are affixed.
They are Doctors Johx H. Douglas, Joshua E. R. Birch, Valentine Mott»
and Archibald Bruce.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 413
there frequently is, when persons in fits have their eyes shut, by a
motion of the eye-lids, and a rolling of the eye-ball.
It is a duty to relate facts which are involved in mystery, and
for which we may not be able to account ourselves, because others
may be more penetrating, experienced or gifted, or successful
than we ; and every one is interested in knowing the limits to
which human nature extends, and the bounds beyond which it
cannot pass, and the circle within which it is inclosed. Every
one, therefore, ought to endeavour to make a mark on the world
which shall last, and be remembered, and noticed for its useful-
ness, of some sort or other, after the world is no longer of any
use to him.
A memento or a monument may be lasting, if it is not large.
There are few men who ought not to have written a sentence, and
there are few men who ought ever to have written a book.
O ! that mine enemy would write a book, was a sentiment
uttered by one of the old patriarchs, who wished that his enemy
would do something which would place him in such an attitude,
that he could not injure the world, nor himself.
That the seeds of ideas may be planted in the human mind, and
at first be as much out of sight as seeds covered with earth, and
planted in the ground, but that they may afterwards spring up as
the seed does, into a visible, and beautiful, and organized sub-
stance, is what we must admit.
It is reported that the house of Rachel Baker's father was
opened, and that frequently, to itinerant preachers. And that she
might have caught those expressions which floated on her sleep-
ing mind, until they ripened, and were sent forth, in such strains
of eloquence, system, and pathos, as are not exceeded by the
writings of the greatest divines, is the conclusion which we have
arrived at, after maturely considering this curious case. Most ex-
traordinary it surely is, that she, when awake, retained nothing of
them, and that when asleep, or in a state of somnambulism, that
the peculiar arrangement, beauty, and spirit, of her religious out-
pourings, probably exceeded every thing which she had, as a
whole, ever heard in her life.
As to her ever having derived any thing from her reading,
ivhich could have in the least assisted her in her superior sermons,
414 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
exhortations, and prayers, it is out of the question ; for ahhough
she could read, when that is said, all is said. She could barely
read, but it appears that she could not read even the most easy
lessons with ease or freedom.
Whoever, therefore, reads her pathetic, classical, and excellent
Christian effusions, which are not exceeded by the prayers and
meditations of him who stands at the head of English literature,
we mean Dr. Johnson, will have the more reason for profound
astonishment. Yes, when he considers too, that he is reading the
outpourings of a young, uneducated country girl, and she fast
asleep !
We are told, and so it appears to us, that her inventive powers
were such, in her sleep, as to be almost as remarkable as any part
of her history. She combined her ideas in new ways, and from
this power, modified and diversified her discourses, so as to form
an immense variety, uttering phrases, and metaphors, as Dr.
Mitchell observes, peculiar to herself.
Her sleeping soul was a storehouse of piety and devotion, from
which issued copious streams, differing from what she had been
accustomed to hear, as a glowing imagination, and more ardent
temperament, will make the same old story appear like a new,
brilliant, and interesting one.
Still, the greatest wonder must be kept in view, which was, that
none of these exalted strains, ever presented themselves to her
waking mind. But even when asleep, and when exhorting, or
preaching, or praying, she readily answered such questions as
were put to her, in a prompt, pertinent, and obliging manner, but
evincing at the same time a profound submission in every thing
to the will of the Most High, a deep and feeling sense of religion,
in all its glory, and a most pertinent view of all the pious bearings
which it could possibly prompt.
We have been more impressed with the introductory and con-
cluding prayers of Rachel Baker, her exhortations, and answers
to the questions proposed to her, than with any religious writings,
and speakings, whatever ; always meaning to except the Sermon
on the Mount, some of the writings of St. Paul, and some other
parts of the Bible. Still, in these sleeping effusions of hers,
there is the most complete summary of the Sermon on the Mount,
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 415
and of all the practical duties, and doctrines, and precepts, of the
apostles, epistles, and prophets, that we have ever seen. And
even when she quotes the Bible, and deviates slightly from our
present English translation, we are inclined to think that the best
Greek scholar will justify such deviation.
Indeed, as one of her visitors observed, she appeared to be in-
tuitively prepared to meet questions the most dark and abstruse ;
and to answer them with promptness, and with multifarious re-
mark, right onward, without repetition ; so as to exhaust her sub-
ject entirely, and almost, before she got through, herself also.
The colors of the duties of a parson, presbyter, elder, or preacher,
were painted by her so vividly, as to almost merit the title given,
of delirious ecstacy, by one who heard her. Still, there was no
rant, cant, nor raving ; nothing but what might be justified, paral-
leled, and referred to the Bible, either in the English translation,
the marginal notes, or in the original languages, from which it was
translated.
The pleasures of a life to come, for a life well spent here, and
the awfully solemn denunciations, and shuddering terrors, of eter-
nal damnation, the slumbering sentinel, who was drowsy at his
post, or winked on the watch tower, were perhaps never better in-
terlarded with scriptural allusions, or with copiousness of human
language, or with aptness of illustration, or with potency of ap-
plication. This oracular corpse amazed the clergymen, as well
as the doctors of medicine, correctly, who visited her. For her
sleep was deep and dead, and for the time, she was to all external
things, an inhabitant of another world, except as to hearing, and
answering questions. One of her visitors, who upon a stormy
night visited her, and heard her holdings forth, described the deep
attention of the auditors, the sighs of the women, the howling of
the tempest, united with the speaking corpse, when uttering its
awful warnings, as calculated to make the soul shudder, and
shiver in sublimity.
She was pale during her paroxysms, and as one described her,
colorless as dead. Indeed she might be, as she was on one occa-
sion, reduced to an alarming state of debility, by the multiplicity
of questions propounded to her ; she never refusing to answer
416 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
them pertinently, so long as they were asked, and her friends had
to interfere, in order to keep her from being quite exhausted.
She was in the city of New York in the autumn of the year
1814 ; and when in her sleeping fits, questions by different clergy-
men were at different times proposed to her. Some of these did
not relate to religious matters, but her answers always savored of
religion.
She was once asked this question : What is to become of the
poor of this city, during the inclemency of the ensuing winter 1
She sighed and said, " That is a question too difficult for me to
answer. I have not the eye of God, to discern the wants of the
poor in this great city ; nor the understanding of the Almighty,
to devise means for their relief. But one thing I know, that God
will provide for his own. He has said, bread shall be given them,
and water shall be made sure. And in regard to others, his
general providence will supply them, for he is good and kind even
to the evil and unthankful. He maketh his sun to rise upon the
evil and the good, and sendeth rain upon the just and the unjust.
He openeth his hand and satisfieth the desire of every living
thing."
This country was at that period at war with Great Britain, and
she was questioried as to what ought to be the conduct of Chris-
tians during the war ; to which her answer responded in senti-
ments which every Christian would admire, the conclusion of
which was as follows :
" But I would warn you all, that there is
another war, and a captain who is never defeated, even Jesus
Christ, who makes war upon sin from generation to generation.
He is always victorious. All his enemies shall be defeated and
scattered. For lo ! thine enemies, O Lord, thine enemies shall
perish. O ye sons and daughters of men, I entreat you to enlist
under the banners of the Captain of salvation, that you may be
saved."
The Rev. Dr. Mason was at that period the most popular
preacher in the United States ; and it was said to her, You have
been to Dr. Mason's church this evening, and heard him preach
;
he is come to see you. She answered, " I did not observe any of
the ambassadors of Christ in the assembly, but I know the
preacher has been with my God, and that my God has been with
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 417-
feim, for I heard the truth. The grand theme of a minister should
ever be Christ and him crucified. Ministers should be examples
to the flock in every good word and work, and keep low in the
valley of humiliation. They should warn unbelievers who are
blind to the things of God, for it is written, eye hath not seen, nor
ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things
which God hath prepared for them that love him."
The question was asked her. By what means can the heart
of an obdurate, rebellious sinner be changed, so as to yield
a cheerful obedience to the will of God ? Her ansv/er was,
" Nothing, my friend, short of the almighty power of God, can
change the heart of a sinner. For such is the deceitfulness and
desperate wickedness of the heart of man by nature, that he
would forever remain an enemy to God in his mind, by wicked-
ness, unless God should make his word like a fire and a hammer,
to melt and break his rocky heart in pieces. To take away the
heart of stone is the work of God, and the new heart is the gift of
his sovereign grace. Thus saith the Lord, a new heart also will I
give you, and a new spirit will I put within you ; and I will take
away the stony heart out of your flesh. O my fellow sinners, un-
less you experience this divine change, you are undone, and must
perish forever. Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a man be
born again, he cannot see the Jiingdom of God. Are you aston-
ished at this declaration ? Do you ask, how can these things be?
Marvel not that I say unto you, ye must be born again."
In one particular she agreed when asleep and when awake. It
was, in lamenting the peculiarity of her state ; and which she
spoke of when questioned, " and when awake, with reluctance,
betraying a deep sensibility, and regarding it as a misfortune.
When in oneof her fits, her views may be gathered from her an-
swer to the following question :
Q. What is your greatest grief?
A. My greatest grief is, that the hand of the Lord is lying heavy
upon me, and that he has made me to differ from my brethren
and sisters in a strange and unaccountable manner ; also, that I
am not sufficiently resigned to the will of my heavenly father in
this my affliction ; and I also grieve, bscause I do not live so near
tp God as I should.
•36
418 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Except in this one point, she appears to have been as different
from herself in her waking and in her preaching states, as two
distinct persons. In her normal, natural, or waking state, her
speech was heavy, languid, and drawling ; so much so, as to be
painful to the hearer ; whilst in her fits of preaching, her articula-
tion was distinct, and occasionally earnest and impressive, some-
times ornamental and figurative, fluent and rapid.
The fits invaded her with regularity, at about nine o'clock in
the evening, and lasted from forty-five minutes, to one hour and
a quarter. A few minutes after going to sleep, or becoming som-
nolent, her exercises commenced, beginning with prayer, which
was succeeded by a sermon, or rather an exhortation, as she did
not take any text, and were concluded by another prayer. During
these exercises, she did not move a limb, except the tongue, but
lay as motionless as a person entirely dead, her eyes being con-
stantly closed. She would, as already observed, answer ques-
tions, but could not, by any means, be aroused from her sleep, or
somnolent state. She was, therefore, evidently in a fit, and the
whole of her religious exercises were unstudied, unpremeditated,
and like the dancing of Nancy Hazard, whose case we have be-
fore related, involuntary. Physicians must regard her as having
periodical paroxysms of disease, of a peculiar kind. And this
seems to have been her own view of her case, when she regarded
it as a misfortune, both when in her fits and out of them. Like
other nervous diseases, hers did not alter her pulse, nor the heat
of her skin, except when her exercises fatigued her, and then her
pulse showed signs of debility. Her moral character, as Dr.
Mitchell observes, was fair and exemplary. The length of time
she had been thus affected was about three years, nor were her
physicians in New York, by bleeding, opiates, or any other reme-
dies, able to produce any change ; she having been brought
thither for medical advice, and sea air, but departed as she came,
without benefit from either. There were some shght hysterical
symptoms at the close of her discourses, with sighing and moan-
ing, when she appeared to fall into a natural slumber, but did not
awake.*
"*
Those who may wish to be made further acquainted with this case, are re-
ferred to a pamphlet, by Mr. Charles Mais, stenographer, of the city of New
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 419
§ 2. This case of sleep-preaching, although quite remarkable,
is not, however, the only one that has occurred. We have the
case of a man, a layman, before us, who did not suppose that he
had ever experienced conversion, who yet was in the habit of
rising from his bed, and praying and preaching in his sleep.
The distinction betwixt his waking and his sleeping mind and
memory, was sufficiently extraordinary to support the doctrine of
two distinct souls or spirits. After he had finished his sermon, he
dismissed his supposed audience, or pronounced a dismissal
;
but before this, he regularly appointed another time when he
would hold forth again. And strange to tell, he did not have
another fit of somniloquism, until the time of adjournment arrived,
when regular to the appointment of his sleeping mind, he never
missed, but with the utmost punctuality went to an upper window
of his house, his usual place of location, when he preached in his
sleep, and commenced exercises, after the manner of the minister
whom he had been accustomed to hear.
This man was moderate, steady, and respectable, and for years
had been under the influence of this singular affection. His health
was good, and he was in other respects like other people who are
sound in mind and body. Yet of this nightly sleep preaching,
when he was awake, he was unconscious ; he knew nothing, re^
membered nothing at all of it. His soul of night remembered
the things of night, his soul of day, the incidents of day. He
that should say, that the different states of the bodily organs, in
the time of sleep, caused the different states of the mind and
memory, would he not be teacliing materialism 1
We then have no resort except to the plurality of souls or
spirits. And that more than one spirit may inhabit the same
body, we have testimony higher than human. No one who ad'
mits that seven devils were cast out of one woman, supposes, or
can suppose, that these devils were any thing more or less than
evil spirits. No one ever did, or ever will maintain, that they
were material, corporeal, visible, or tai!gi))le bodies. They v/ere,
York, wiio look down liierally, the exercises of Miss Baker. In ihis painplilet,
the two prayers and the exhorlaiion. pronounced in one o-fher nightly exercises,
are given at length. They are well worthy ol'the notice of the curious and the
pious.
420 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
therefore, seven evil spirits, called devils. Now this man appears
to have had one additional spirit, or extra soul, which was a good
one, we may suppose a converted one, which led him to pray and
to preach in his sleep ; whilst his waking soul was deemed by
himself to be in an unconverted state, and did nothing of the
kind.
After all, however, the state of this man, and that of Rachel
Baker, did not materially differ from the common occurrence of
dreaming, except that they had the power of giving speech and
system to their imaginations, which common dreamers do not
possess. They dreamed sermons and spoke them. The man
had somnambulism with his dreams ; Rachel Baker had only
somniloquism with hers, as she did only talk and did not walk.
Age, owes most of its acts to impressions received in infancy,
or adolescence, which have long been forgotten, and every trace
of them banished from the recollection. Sickness, senility, or
the approach of death, may sometimes resuscitate the recollections
of youth which have long lain dormant. And dreams sometimes
do it, when every vestige of a past occurrence has passed from
the waking mind.
The Rev. Mr. Muhlenburg, who was minister of the Lutheran
church in Philadelphia, his auditors, many of them being from
Sweden, was surprised to hear the aged Swedes, on their death
beds, praying in the Swedish language ; a language which he
was sure they had not spoken for fifty or sixty years ; and which
it is probable, as Dr. Rush supposed, that they had forgotten en-
tirely, until the effects of the fever on the brain, revived its recol-
lection. The same thing has happened to native Welch, and
Germans, in this country.
§ 3. There is no religious sect in the known world, either
Christian, Mahomedan, or Pagan, who sacrifice so totally, all
the joys, comforts, and necessaries of the present life, for the sake
of the future, as the Gymnosophists, a religious sect among the
Hindoos.
Gymnosophist^ signifies naked philosopher. The forsaking of
all acts that are desirable, is one of their tenets, which carried to
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 421
its full extent, introduces the performer, or sufferer, immediately
into the abodes of bliss, and has the power to unbar the gates of
paradise.
As wearing clothes, is one of those desirable things, nakedness
is endured, almost totally, by the most fanatical of these devotees,
and naked feet by all of them.
They abandon the society of men, and pass their lives amid
the deserts and jungles, totally absorbed in contemplating things
spiritual, heavenly, and divine. It is thus that they think to fortify
and fit the imprisoned soul, for the moment of its liberation from
its fleshly prison, and for its entrance into those abodes prepared
for the sanctified, who by such austere sanctity, merit admittance.
The penances to which they subject their spare, naked, and ema-
ciated bodies, in order to vanquish the unholy solicitations of
their passions, are beyond description excruciating and terrible.
The severest tortures which human ingenuity can mflict, are
borne with unshrinking fortitude ; nor do they seek consolation
in human society, or compassion from human sympathy, or pity
from any mortal eye. It is theirs unflinchingly to bear torments
the most cruel, untouched to tear ties the most tender, undisturbed
to undergo tortures the most terrible.
Upon a man becoming one of the fourth, or highest order of
this religious sect, and which is termed Suniassi, the wife of his
36*
422 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
bosom is neglected, and the ehild of his affections abandoned.
Daily penalties of the body are endured for the purification of
the spirit ; but a day, a week, a month, or a year, does not end,
or mitigate the intensity of the sufferings, or lighten the load of
the sufferer. The privations, the patience, the penahies, the
pains, are to be perpetual to the penitent. His home is abandon-
ed ; his haggard frame and starved stomach, are taken where
food, fuel, or shelter, are not found. His naked body is exposed
to the stinging and the biting of insects—to the fangs and to the
poison of serpents—to famine, and to the ferocity of wild beasts.
Every misery is endured in meditation and silence, for the sake
of his soul. No companion accompanies him—no human voice
is heard but his own, and this only escapes his lips in the utter-
ance of one single mystic word, at intervals. This word is awan,
and is uttered sacredly, because it is the first word of the Vedas,
or Hindoo scriptures. '•Like the moping owl, which to the moon
complained, and not like the beautiful bird of night, which melo-
dious sung its anthems to returning day. Day and night, the sun
serene, or scowling sky, found him alike miserable, alike crying
awan. But what is his food, what keeps his soul from premature-
ly flying from its exhausted, emaciated, miserable tenement 1 It
is the food of the brute, the herbage that spontaneously springs in
the desert. But if the grass of the desert is dried up, and the
berries fallen and exhausted, his severe order permits him to visit
the nearest village, and to beg a handful of boiled rice ; which if
thrown on the ground, he takes up with his mouth, swallowing as
much, and no more, than will prevent absolute starvation. This
done, he flies to his sole, sore, solitary business, that of incessant
mental prayer, intense contemplation, painful fasting, and the
endurance of damp, drought, dearth, and nakedness.
They consider these abstemious sufferings as uniting them in-
timately with the Deity, and as enduing them with a portion of
his power. Hence it is supposed that their energy is unbounded,
that they can cast out devils of all kinds, and bring up demons
from the loicest bobun of nai'aka, or that Hindoo hell, which
is the region of serpents. They even themselves hold, that
the united prayers and powers of their order, can call down
the stars from heaven, remove mountains, and disembody the
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 433
soul ; and then again restore it to its breathless clod of a habi-
tation.
*'
These devotees are frequently seen in the jungles, and in the
neighbourhood of the deserts, in a state of dreadful emaciation.
They are held in the highest veneration by all pious Hindoos."
And no one who reads their history, can deny the power, the vast,
the intense, the concentrated, the mighty, the unbounded power of
religion on the mind. The present writer can say, that nothing
has ever str&ck him more forcibly, as evincing this point, than the
account of these Gymnosophists, and of the Essenes, as given
by Flavins Josephus. If then, false religions have such super-
human influence, what ought the true religion of the Bible to
have ?
§ 4. Account of the funeral ceremonies of the ancient kings
of Scythia, from Herodotus : —" The body having been trans-
ported through the different provinces of the kingdom, they come
at last to the Gerrhi, who live in the remotest parts of Scythia,
and among whom the sepulchres are. Here the corpse is placed
upon a couch, round which, at diflerent distances, daggers are
fixed ; upon the whole are disposed pieces of wood covered with
branches of willow. In some other parts of the trench they bury
one of the deceased's concubines, whom they previously strangle,
together with the baker, the cook, the groom, his most confiden-
tial servant, his horses, the choicest of his effects, and finally,
some golden goblets, for they possess neither silver nor brass.
To conclude all, they fill up the trench with earth, and seem to
be emulous in their endeavours to raise as high a mound as pos-
sible."
Let the moderns consider themselves as the descendants of
whatever nation they may, they can hardly come to any other
conclusion than that their remote ancestors were barbarians.
Here was no less than five persons murdered, in order that they
might be buried in the same trench with their master the king.
When we view the enormities of the Scythians, and the Druids,
w« may learn how highly we ought to prize the religion of Chris-
tians.
424 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
§ 5. We had supposed that although the pyramids of Egypt,
and of Spanish America, together with the mounds of the west-
ern and southern states, were of unknown eras, yet that the anti-
quities of England could be better traced to their authors, and
authenticated as to their origin. But we find that Silsbury-Hill,
so called, is an immense barrow of one hundred and seventy feet
in height, of which history gives no account. This immense
barrow, covers a surface of no less than five acres, and ihirty-
four perches of land, and is something more than'five hundred
feet in diameter at its base, and one hundred and five feet diame-
ter at its top. The tradition is, that an unknown king name J
Sil, or Zel, " as the country folk pronounce it," was burJe J there
on horseback. It is supposed to have had some connection with
the idolatrous worship of the Druids. But the tradition of its
having been a place of sepulture for a king, is most probably
ti'ue, although the Druids, or ancient Britons, might have wept or
worshipped there. The Druid barrow is circular, and of no very
great elevation elsewhere. This Silsbury-Hill is the largest bar-
row in England. The next in size is Marlborough-Mount, in the
garden of an inn at Marlborough.* There is another kind of
barrow found in England, of a long oval shape.
It is not then Egypt alone which has its monuments of antiqui-
ty, reaching beyond the reach of history ; both England and
America, are rivals to the land of the Pharaohs and Ptolemies, in
this respect.
The two most ancient sepulchral monuments, was the harrow^
or heap of earth, and the eairn, or pile of stones, raised over the
dead. The former, in process of time, arose to the mound, or
mount, and the latter to the pyramid ; in order, by distinguished
monuments, to distinguish the remains of those who had distinc-
tion whilst living. The book of Joshua, Homer, Horace, and
Virgil, may be referred to for such structures.
Burying the body in a sitting posture, with the arms about the
lower limbs, was one of the earliest methods of disposing of the
dead. To this burning succeeded. The latest adoption, that of
burying the body extended, entire, and at full length, continues to
the present time.
* See Saturday Magazine, for November, 1836.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 425
§ 6. A recently related case of somnambulism, from the pen
of Benjamin Haskell, M. D. of South Boston, is published in
the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal.
In some of its features, this case is equally curious and surpri-
sing, as those which we have already given. It occurred in a
young man of about twenty years of age, by the name of William
Blatchford, Jr., of Gloucester, Massachusetts, one of those towns
which suffered under the epidemic mania, called the Salem
witchcraft. He was first seized January 2d, 1834, with a severe
pain in his head, which was followed by something resembling
intermittent fever, Avhich was succeeded by fits. In these fits, he
performed all the feats of a rope-dancer, and balance-master,
balancing himself with one foot on the back of a chair, leaping
on and walking the mantel piece, with other similar acts of agili-
ty. His senses partook of a morbid degree of acuteness which
was astonishing : faint sounds to him were unpleasantly loud,
and slightly touching his skin, as painful as a blow, to well per-
sons. But his eyes displayed this increase of sensibility in a
most marvellous degree ; so that animal magnetism and witch-
craft, were called into account for the otherwise, to the beholders,
unaccountable phenomena. The first discovery of this magical
acuteness of vision, was accidental. The light happened to be
carried out of the room, in the night, just as he was coming out of
one of his fits, and his mother, who remained with him, happen-
ed to come against a chair ; he asked her why she did so. She
answered that it was so dark she could not see. He seemed sur-
prised, and disposed to deny that it was dark, observing that he
could see the letters on the back of a Bible, which lay on a table
the opposite side of the room. His father coming in with a light,
the experiment was tried, of putting a handkerchief folded a
number of times over his eyes, as he complained that the light
dazzled them. But whilst thus blindfolded. Watts' Psalms and
Hymns being presented to him, he read out of the book, a num-
ber of stanzas, whilst thus blindfolded. And we are told that
this experiment was often repeated during his illness. Dr. Has-
kell informs us that it was witnessed by himself, and by numbers^
who were incredulous, until obliged to submit to the testimony of
their own eyes.
426 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
The patient's residence was by the sea-side, overlooking a bay,
the entrance into a harbor. And by this surprising acuteness of
vision, he was able to tell, and did repeatedly tell, what vessels at
a distance, had on deck, when even the hull itself, to other per-
sons, was scarcely visible, if visible at all. And upon the arrival
of the craft, he was always found to have told correctly. With
his eyes, over which two closely folded silk handkerchiefs were
placed, and so held that he seemed to look through the hand of
his father who held them, he accurately told the number, and the
names of ten or twelve persons in the room. It was between
twilight and dark, and he named the several persons as his father
pointed at them, which proves that there could have been no col-
lusion. We incline, however, to the opinion which we have in
the similar instances, of Jane C. Rider, Mrs. Cass, Nancy Haz-
ard, and the case mentioned by Dr. Rush, expressed, that there
was a transfer of the visual rays, from the eyes to the fingers, or
other parts of the body.
We should feel inclined, if we now had a similar case, to try
the experiment of enveloping the whole body in a number of
blankets, in order the better to test this theory of transfer and
metastasis. What we are next told of the case of this young man,
strengthens our hypothesis, or rather it may be said, gives room
for another, which is, that the eye itself was endued with micro-
scopic powers, and had all the properties of a magnifying glass.
For we are informed, and the authority is of such credibility, that
we are not permitted to doubt, that he read fine print through ten
thick uesses of diaper, and which was held by a lady, who if not
unwilling to believe the evidence of her own senses, was incredu-
lous until thus convinced by them ; letters, at that time, as he ex-
pressed to Mr. Gott, appearing as large as the ends of the fingers.
Men, he said, were magnified into giants. This exaltation of
vision, did not last the whole time of the young man's illness,
and as in the case of Nancy Hazard, which we saw ourselves,
came on at the close of a fit ; the patients at the time, having
been neither in a fit, nor entirely free from the effects of one.
Some of Blatchford's fits resembled epilepsy, others ecstacy or
trance. Others were like those fits popularly called still hysterics^
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 427
in which he would he, from half an hour to an hour, void of
sense, and entirely motionless.
There is in this case, and in others of the same kind, abundant
food for metaphysical speculation. And there are now enough
of them upon record, to speculate upon. We have advanced the
doctrine of a transfer, or metastasis of the senses. Others may
suppose, that the ganglions of the nerves are elevated, so as to as-
sume the properties imputed by physicians to the brain, and by
the Bible to the heart ; so as in fact to assume the powers of the
senses. But these two theories are so nearly alike, that he who
can feel the weight of an argument, will feel no great disposition
to contend for the one to the exclusion of the other. We incline,
from the cases of Miss M'Evoy, and Mrs. Cass, to consider the
doctrine of a transfer, or metastasis of the senses, to be complete-
ly proved. But that in other cases, and even in theirs, that there
may have been an elevation of the powers and sympathies of the
ganglions, it would be wise to admit, and not inconsistent with
any rational theory to deny.
But in the case of this young man, sleep talking was a promi-
nent and entertaining feature, to his attendants and visitors. lie
had the summer previous to his illness, been employed in the
coasting trade, between the port of Gloucester and New York ;
and his visions of the night related to the seas, to the purchasing
of a cargo, to the lading and stowing away the materials, to
hauling off the vessel from the wharf into the stream, to obtain-
ing his papers, and clearing at the custom house ; to the hunting
up of the crew, from the grog-shops and boarding houses. He
considered himself as the captain, and it was noticed that his
cargoes were always well adapted to the port to which he sailed,
and that his return cargoes, were such as are usually brought
from the places to which he went, and from which he came.
But his sleeping, somnambuhst soul, carried him sometimes
ashore, cast him away, or dashed his ship on the rocks ; in all
which emergencies, he evinced as much presence of mind, nauti-
cal skill, correctness of judgment, and tact of managing and or-
dering his crew, and every thing connected with his perils, and
the safety of the ship, cargo, and hands, as the most adroit, and
experienced old sea-captain could possibly manifest. This was
4^S THE TONGUE OF TIME.
^
repeatedly verified by experienced ship-masters having been
present at his reveries, and who hstened to his imaginary dangers,
and to his remedies, and the methods and means prescribed, and
pursued by himself, and ordered for his crew.
When his imagination conjured up a storm, every disposition
was immediately made, such as furling the small sails, reefing
the large ones, sending down the topmast spars, and all the other
means of resort, of the most skilful mariner, and far exceeding
any thing ever experienced by himself, in the short time that he
had been employed as a hand, m the coasting business. He was
fertile in expedients, and showed an acquaintance with facts, and
availed himself of his knowledge in this respect, in his paroxysms.
But his waking mind had no retention of these same facts, nor
no remembrance that his sleeping mind had ever referred to them.
Yet, when the next night his sleeping mind resumed its empire,
the whole train of thought approached it, and business began just
where his sleeping mind had left it the night preceding.
The excitement of disease upon the nerves, rendered luminous
those readings and relations, which he might have heard in health,
but which he did not retain, owing to the slightness and transitori-
ness of their impressions. At least, this is one view which may
be taken of the subject ; and as an instance of which, in a fancied
voyage to Liverpool, his vessel was incommoded by a bank at the
Mersey's mouth, the river leading to that city. Yet upon being
questioned next day, he knew of no such obstruction. Thus his
sleeping mind was the best geographer ; there being a bar at the
mouth of that river, which he might at some time or other in his
life, have heard mentioned. His sleeping soul, in his voyages,
was careful to take a pilot on board at the proper time and place,
and to discharge him when no longer needed. His anchor was
unbent and secured, the cable stowed away. He kept a reckon-
ing, tlirew the log periodically, and took the altitude of the sun,
to find out the latitude. Every visitor was struck with the extent
and accuracy of that knowledge which was evinced, and only
evinced, in sleep—a knowledge which he had never had any ade-
quate opportunity to acquire, and of which awake, he scarcely
possessed a single particle.
THE TOXGUE OF TIME. 45^9
An incident which took place when his imagined voyage was
to Sumatra, where he was procuring pepper, strikingly illustrates
his knowledge of facts, and tact at expedients. He supposed
himself on shore, purchasing pepper, which was only brought to
him in small quantities at a time ; and being thus delayed he was
obliged to have his dinner sent from the ship to the shore, in which
transit it passed through the hands of the Malays, who abstracted
a part of it. Wiien he found this out, he advised his cook, when
he sent it again on si) ore by them, to say that it was hog. These
followers of Mahomet, truer to religion than honesty, respected
the prophet's injunction of " good Mussulmen abstain from
pork," and it was brought to him unmolested.
His conduct is mentioned as having been always consistent
with itself, and true to his imaginary character, in situation and
circumstances. His supposed voyages when short, occupied his
sleeping mind but one night, but if long, two nights were spent in
the detail. His vessel was always a temperance vessel, no spirit-
ous liquors being allowed on board. Yet he was sometimes
freighted Avith wooden pumpkins and squashes, which he sold to
the inhabitants of Salem ; and he sometimes cast his vessel away
to defraud the underwriters. Where his last sleeping story left
his vessel, there his next reverie found it, whether lying in port, or
in the midst of the Atlantic ocean. " In several successive voy-
ages, his black cook turned white through terror." His final
cure of voyaging in his sleep, was owing to his vessel having
been stranded on the pig-rocks, so called, at the entrance of Sa-
lem harbor ; on which occasion, himself and his crew had to take
to the boats. He came home to Gloucester, affirming that he was
sick of the sea, and would never wet his jacket with salt watei*
again. His sleeping soul, true to itself, and regarding its promises,
never was known to travel the deep afterwards. From that time
he has not been known to talkin his sleep ! The sequel of this
part of the case is certainly as worthy of notice as any part
of it.
Here then was the soul of sleep, accomplishing all its convic-
tions, pursuing all its determinations, systematizing all its pro-
jects, and concluding all its acts, by resolve and resolution, to
which it has firmly adhered.
37
430 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
What are we to think of the essence of the soul 1 What shall
we conclude about it, when we find its capabilities capable of
division, controlling the flesh, and yet that flesh when tortured
and pricked, and even when the biles upon this man, of which
he had several, were pinched, could elicit no signs of suffering,
no turn of thought from that current which somnambulism or his
sleeping soul was pursuing "?
We are sometimes taught the intimate dependance of the soul
upon the body, as when we see the latter sleeping, when the
spirit would willingly remain awake. But here the soul seemed
transported away from its pained tenement, and acting as though
it had no such companion as a body with biles upon it, which
were pinched ; or blistered surfaces, which were irritated ; or
nerves, which were lacerated. All these things were done to this
man, and yet he remained dead to his companions,—dead to his
house and home, and to all affairs on land, and alive only to the
ship and the sea. But before the soul of night assumed this all-
controlling, this paramount sway, the body seemed to assume a
short ascendant, a tyrannical, a barbarous reign. It had four or
five convulsive fits. At an early hour he would then express a
desire to retire to rest. When his bed was prepared, he went to it
and undressed himself. He would then leap from the floor on to
it, and then in the instant, his waking soul* resigned its empire.
His body became senseless, motionless, unsusceptible, as one en-
tirely dead, as the most pale and lifeless corpse, to stimulants
;
and from that moment, of a kind of half voluntary sleep-talking,
a farewell was bidden to his waking soul, and all its thoughts, to
his suff'ering, blistered body, and all its pains.
He would repose on his back, and nothing would arouse him
but the rays of the morning sun, which as they sprang from the
chambers of the East, the next morning, would call his earthly
mansion to resume its social soul of day, and animate his limbs,
and sound his voice, in accents of mortals, aided by the scenes
of earthly vision.
There are some things which ought to be, and to remain un-
known ; but nothing relating to this patient is of that descrip-
tion. Every thing related of him, and his singular case, merits
attention ; and attention we have given to this, and sundry other
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 431
cases of the kind ; so that our readers may be led into the intricate
mazes of 7nan, matter^ and mind. Independence ought to have
its proper pride, mendicity its proper shame, mendacity its proper
punishment, and veracity, and accurate analysis and observation
their proper praise. But nequid nimis, was the Latin adage,
which means in English, nothing to excess. It is best, if possible,
to deceive no one ; for whoso, like Mahomet and Cromwell, be-
gins by deceiving others, will end like them, in deceiving him-
self; and like Swift, die without a proper sense of death, from
insanity ; or from a loss of friends be deprived of the glory of.
gold, and the lustre of living.
His soul of sleep did not sanction fraud and imposture, without
retributive justice. In one of his fancied voyages, as we have
noticed, he sold to the inhabitants of Salem, a cargo of wooden
squashes and pumpkins ; but the matter coming tv light before
he got away from the wharf, he was obliged to fly by land, and
leave the old hulk of his schooner to remunerate the inhabitants
for the imposture.
There have been a few persons who have had the sharpness
of sight to discover vessels and fleets at sea, by their reflection in
the clouds, or the regions of the clouds, or atmosphere. Long
before the sight of either the sails or the hull of ships could be
discerned by themselves or any one else, this aerial vision, this
painting in the skies, of vessels under sail, has been so express-
ive, as that distant fleets and single vessels approaching the coast,
has been averred, and their arrival has confirmed the seeming
prediction. Young Blatchford, among his other displays of dis-
eased sensibility, appears to have had this peculiarity. We would
refer to this, his announcing the approach of two vessels, the one
an hermaphrodite brig, the other a topsail schooner, as passing a
ledge of rocks in the vicinity, when he was lying on his back on
the floor, out of sight of the water, and with a long range of
buildings betwixt himself and the harbor. The reflection in the
clouds, might be seen, as Dr. Haskell ascertained, from whence
his patient lay, through an opposite window.
That this man's diseases were not wholly of the mind, but of
a serious corporeal nature, his having pain in the head, intermit-
tent fever, vomiting, bleeding from the mouth and stomach, and
432 THE TONGL'E OF TIME,
the discharge of a fetid matter from his mouth, abundantly de^
moustrates. As to his perceiving the approach of vessels by the
clouds, although it may be considered supernatural by some, it is
not destitute of precedent. There has indeed, if we mistake not,
an attempt been made to reduce the art of discovering vessels at
sea, by their reflection in the atmosphere, long before they could
be discerned from the shore, to something like a system. But the
foreign periodical in which we noticed this curious subject, a
considerable time past, we are not now able to refer to. We
however, highly approve of the course pursued by Dr. Haskell,
in relating the facts as they occurred, in the case of Blatchford,
although he appears to have had some apprehensions of throwing
discredit upon his statements, by giving them to the public ; and
we fully agree with him, that no writer can do justice to science,
by only detailing plausible occurrences, and suppressing facts
equally true, but for which he is unable to account, or render a
reason.
The progress of science, the accurate study of man, matter
and mind, the phenomena daily developing of diseases, derange-
ment, fits, and somnambulism, bid fair to clear up many recondite
points in physiology and animal life ; the ultimate results of
which will, we trust, in time, reduce the mysteries of animal
magnetism, magic, and supposed witchcraft, to matters of sober
science.
The subject of the bar at the mouth of the river Mersey, which
obstructed his navigation in one of his sleeping voyages, and of
which his waking memory retained no traces of ever having
heard, was probably derived from his father, who had been to
Liverpool when young.
§ 7. Dreams may sometimes restore facts which have long
been forgotten, and which even cannot be recollected when the
dream in hours of wakefulness, is remembered. An instance of
this kind occurred to Dr. Rush himself, of which I took a note
when hearing his lectures. In 1766, Dr. Rush sailed for Edin-
burgh, from one of the wharves in Philadelphia. In ]S02,
thirty-six years afterwards, the Doctor dreamed that he embarked
for Edinburgh, and that his brother and Mr. Jonathan Smith,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 433
accompanied him to the wharf. When he was awake, he could
not recollect that Mr. Smith accompanied him to the wharf in
1766, and to satisfy his mind upon the subject, he took the oppor-
tunity to inquire of him, whether he had dreamed correctly or
not. Mr. Smith assured him that he had, and perfectly recollect-
ed the circumstance. Thus the truth presented itself to the soul
of sleep, which the waking soul could not remember.
Dr. Rush, upon the general subject of dreams, did not think
them necessarily connected with sleep ; which is to be under-
stood, by some persons never dreaming, although all persons
sleep. Thus Cleon slept as other persons sleep, but never dream-
ed at all. In Cleon's whole life, therefore, a dream never had
any connection with his sleep. His singularity in this respect,
attracted the notice of that excellent ancient writer, Plutarch,
who mentions the case of Cleon ; and Dr. Rush also mentions
it, as a proof of dreams not being necessarily connected with
sleep. We must however, maintain, that although sleep may be
without dreams, yet that dreaming cannot occur without sleep.
There is no such thing in nature as a dream without a drowse.
Waking-dreams^ so called, are only called so for the purpose of a
misnomer, and in ridicule. They are like counterfeit money,
plentiful, but spurious. They are worse than the dreams of
night, which only mislead and impose upon the individual who
has them, whilst the day dreams of visionaries, and enthusiasts,
and speculators, impose upon and mislead hundreds of others,
often to their ruin.
Dreams are excited by too much food on the one hand, whilst
inanition, hunger, thirst, night sweats, and hemorhage, may like-
irise occasion them on the other. Too many clothes, and a
retention of what ought to be evacuated, either from the bowels,
the bladder, or brain, are prolific of dreams. By the brain's be-
ing evacuated, we mean, that when too much blood is retained,
that it is apt to flow upon that organ, and that bloodletting may
prevent unpleasant dreams, and even apoplexy, and palsy, night-
mare and epilepsy.
Dreams may be compared to the delirium of fever, in both of
which, there is an incoherence of ideas. And yet, in both there
are sane, and sound, and vivid, and bright images, conceptions,
37*
434 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
and models of things in the mind, but unconnected and incohe-
rent. Hence, the notions, conceptions, and thoughts, and opin-
ions deducible from dreams, cannot be made to cohere by man,
and are therefore referred to the Divinity.
Without divine interposition, the want of cohesion, the loss of
connection, and the absolute absence of memory, place the dreams
of the Old Testament, like those of the New, and like those of
past, present, and passing times, in the same light that they have
ever stood ; that is, that they cannot be interpreted without divine
aid.
Somnambulism, and its congeners, sleep talking and sleep
preaching, are the madness of sleep, and resemble some cases of
waking derangement. Eloquence, music, preaching, and a
talent for poetry, have all been elicited by mania, in persons who
had nothing of these talents in health.
A gentleman in the Pennsylvania hospital, both astonished and
delighted the patients, by his displays of oratory, as he preached
from a table in the hospital yard every Sunday, in a state of in-
sanity. A female in the same hospital, composed hymns, and
sang them so sweetly, so soft and pleasant, as to cause the hearer
to hang with delight upon her performance. And yet, she never
had the talent of poetry, or music, when in health.
The talent of wit and cunning, as connected with mental de-
rangement, is common in all countries. But uncommon ingenui-
ty in the mechanical arts, and in painting, have occasionally been
evolved, and displayed.
The combinations of things which madness exhibits, are incom-
prehensible to reasonable men. For those things which are done
without reason, it is hard, and often impossible, for reason to as-
sign any motive for.
John Allen, of Connecticut, the present writer has seen, after
he had cut off his own nose. He frequently mutilated himself, or
made the attempt, but before proceeding to the revolting opera-
tion, he made a very long, and very excellent prayer.
Our ancestors, the early Britons, would appear crazy, to all
modern eyes. They dressed themselves in the skins of slain
beasts. They put the hide of skinned brutes upon their shoulders,
and all about tlteir bodies. The horns of the hide were seen
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 435
about the forehead of a human being, which had, before skinning^
grown from the forehead of a cow, a bull, or buffalo.
It is, however, hardly correct to say, that the skins of brutes
were put all about their bodies, for the greatest part of their bodies
were naked. They, like all other savages, delighted in orna-
menting a part of the body, rather than in covering the whole of
it. Their festivals were without curb or restriction. Their liber-
ty, was a license to riot, and to break all the rules of morality, and
decency, and propriety, without compunction, and without pun-
ishment.
Mental vigor cannot be preserved without bodily exercise. But
bodily exercise can be elicited, without any kind of mental vigor
whatever.
§ 8. There are some things detailed upon veritable authority,
which are so improbable as scarcely to admit of serious belief.
"We may notice them, whilst we wait for further evidence. Among
these, is the detail of the discovery of a people highly civilized in
the interior of New Holland, under the editorship of Lady Mary
Fox. Such a work seems calculated to excite the greatest atten-
tion. But our credulity is pretty severely put to the test, when we
are told in addition, that this people are descended from the Eng-
lish nation. It is a late London production.
If this people are more ancient than the discovery of New Hol-
land by the modern British nation,* the question would naturally
arise, how they got there at all, and especially how they became
located in the interior, and were not found on the coasts of that
vast country, or continent, of two thousand four hundred miles in
length, by two thousand three hundred in breadth.
There have been two well authenticated instances of women,
sixty years of age, in the United States, having given birth to
children. The first instance occurred in Pawtucket, four miles
from the city of Providence, in Rhode Island. The mother died,
but the child lived. The second instance occurred in Missouri,
in Jefferson county, the southern part of that state. The St.
Louis Republican states, that a gentleman youajies for the fact,
* New Holland was first discovered by the Datch, in 1616.
436 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
that the wife of a respectable citizen, of the age above mentioned,
presented her husband with twins. The husband himself was
eighty years of age.
If these instances are not unparalleled in the Old World, we do
not know where to find their parallel, except in Sarah, the wife of
Abraham.
To these we may add the case of a woman in Connecticut, but
a native of Rhode Island, who had a child at the age of fifty-four,
lacking about three months. This woman the present writer
knew, and attended at a privious birth of one of her children.
That infants have been born pregnant, is a strange affair, but
well substantiated by certain writers of the Old World, and we
have one instance of it in the New World.
§ 9. We learn from Haller, the celebrated Professer at Got-
tengen that Rzasynski's Natural History of Poland, contains an
example of a female child, pregnant, when born.
We may refer to Otto, to Thomas Bartholine Aristotle,
and others, as authorities in proof of instances of the like kind.
And the present writer had a case related to him by a matron of
the very first respectability, of an infant giving birth to another
infant, which, whether ever published or not, is to him unknown.
We should feel no disposition, however, to rank mankind with
the aphis, an insect which is hatched in a pregnant state. The
few instances in the human species which have occurred, are so
few and far apart, as to be considered monstrous productions.
They are, in my own view, tioin cases, so designed by nature, but
aberrating, so as that the progeny, instead of being separate, are
combined, coalesced, adherent, or the one within the other.
A great many facts relating to the animal economy, have been
already discovered, but they have been unfolded singly, slowly,
and at periods very distant. We have no reason to conclude that
the volume of nature will ever be laid all open at once to our view.
We must he contented to notice single facts, which have occurred
at remote periods, and in remote climes, and when we get enough
of them, we must put them together, and from generals descend
to particulars, and thus form systems.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 437
That we are correct in our views with respect to nature having
designed for twins those cases oi fetal impregnation^ so called, is
proved by this, that there is at least one instance upon record, in
which the human pregnant body was not a female, but a male.
This instance occurred in France, in a boy named Amidee Bissieu.,
who had complained, from that period of infancy in which he
could make himself understood, of pain in the left side. And
this side was thus early found enlarged into the form of a tumour.
He died in his thirteenth year, of fever and pulmonary consump-
tion, having passed during his illness, puriform matters, and a ball
of hairs. After death, the body was opened by Messrs. Guerin
and Bertin, and the facts were ascertained and stated by the
authority of a commission from the Medical School of Paris. A
sac was found attached to the arch of the colon, in which balls of
hair, and an organized mass were found. The dissection of this
mass, performed with extraordinary care, discovered traces of
some of the organs of sense, a brain, a spinal marrow, and large
nerves ; muscles, also, which were degenerated into a kind of
fibrous matter ; a skeleton, composed of a spine, a head, a pelvis,
and the rudiments of the limbs ; and lastly, an umbilical cord,
which was very short, and which was inserted into the mesocolon ;
an artery and a vein, which were ramified at both extremities, that
belonging to the fetus, and that belonging to the body of the boy
in whom it was found.
The existence of the preceding organs, were sufficient proof, as
the French Medical School, and physicians, determined, to
demonstrate the individuality of this organized mass. That is,
that it formed, nor was designed to form, no part of the body of
the individual in which it was contained, but that the primary ob-
ject of nature was, the formation of two bodies, separate and dis-
tinct. As its location was without the alimentary canal, it could
not have been swallowed ; as the body containing it was a male,
it could not have been the result of self, or extrinsic impregnation.
It remains, therefore, as a proof of our theory, that instances of
the kind, are nature's abortive attempts to form twins, the one of
which is contained within the other. It ought to be noticed that
this organized mass was contained within the mesocolon, but at-
438 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
tached to the colon, and that besides the parts already enume-
rated, this monstrous relic of humanity had teeth.
§ 10. We now proceed to notice a case of the kmd, which
occurred in the New World. This was in Washington county,
Kentucky, and is from the pen of Dr. Edward B. Gaither, of
Springfield, in that state, whose patient, an infant of two years
and nine months old, in whose body, after death, was found a
fetus, or the monstrous remains of another infant. The little pa-
tient was a female, who died about three hours after the arrival of
the doctor. It was supposed to have been affected with ascites, or
dropsy of the belly, but upon hearing a detail of the symptoms,
it was concluded that the disease had been mistaken, and liberty
was therefore obtained to examine the body. Upon doing which,
a cavity was opened occupying a part of the umbilical and epi-
gastric regions, containing yellow fetid water, and an imperfect
child, and also an animal substance of a whitish color, from
which grew a small teat, and hair, the latter being about an inch
and a quarter in length.
There was no visible connection of the imperfect fetus, or child,
with the cavity in which it was found ; the cord, which must have
existed, having been probably destroyed by putrescency ; and this
the smell of the fluid denoted, as well as the appearance of the
thigh, the bones of which had perforated the flesh at each knee.
On one foot there were three toes, on the other the indistinct ap-
pearance of two. The indications of sex were feminine. The
left arm was but a stump, at the end of which was a nail, but no
hand. The right arm was large and long, with three fingers and
a thumb. The head was imperfect, and without eyes or ears. It
had no mouth, nor proper face, but in that region of the head
which the face should have seemingly occupied, there was a small
protuberance, which contained, or in which were inserted, three
teeth, which were of the size of the teeth of a child of about the
age of the parent infant ;* which is a further confirmation of our
position, that nature had designed, abortively, the production of
twins—the size of these teeth denoting that nature went forward
* These teeth were two incisores, or front teeth, and one canine, or eye tooth.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 439
with a part of the organs, without interruption, whilst others were
hindered, frustrated, ruined, and no seeming efforts made to pro-
duce them ; this substitute for a mouth having no opening at all.
" On the back part of the head was hair eight or nme inches
long ;" which again shows that nature was not delayed in the
growth of this integument. The whole length of the body was
seven inches, its circumference ten inches. The length of the
arm was five inches, that of the stump not quite four.
Something hard in the abdomen of the little girl who had died,
was discovered by the parents when she was only one month old,
which continued to increase. She was healthy until nine months
old, and her appetite appears always to have been good. It is
quite remarkable that like some pregnant women, she had long-
ings for ardent spirits, which were very great. It took a con-
siderable quantity to affect her, and she would, if permitted,
become intoxicated. Of these she drank freely only one hour
before her death.
Her size was that of ordinary children of her age ; she had
dark hair and eyes, and as we are told, would have been called
handsome, had it not been for a melancholy gloom on her counte-
nance. " Her countenance exhibited evidences of a good under-
standing, and her little tongue confirmed it." But her general
appearance denoted that she was the child of grief.
The weight of the infant's infant was two pounds fourteen
ounces. The animal substance which had a teat, and hair, but
was not connected with the fetus, was two ounces. It was con-
nected, however, to the child by a cord, and was no doubt a
mows^roMs placenta. The quantity of liquor evacuated, was " be-
tween three quarts and a gallon." It was yellow water, havmg
the smell of bad eggs. So that the abdominal contents, of a kind
purely and solely extra, in this child of two years and nine months
old, must have amounted to at least nine pounds, which is the
average weight of a full grown and healthy infant, or rather more
;
it being considered rather a large new-born infant, that weighs
nine pounds.
§ 11. As many evils may be referred to the effects of poverty,
we think that these evils must be referred mostly to the vegetable
440 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
creation ; and that, as respects animals, the substitution of twins,
for single births, is one of animal nature's prolifics. It is one of
her attempts at supernumeraries, of sailors, citizens, and soldiers,
and of increasing the happiness of dust here, and which raaj end
in the happiness and eternal felicity of souls hereafter. Such
appears to be a provision of providence, supremely wise, but
which is frustrated by accidental causes, which special providen-
ces do not prevent. For, says a celebrated divine, whose work is
lying before us, " The miraculous and ordinary assistance of the
Holy Ghost are very distinguishable."*
§ 12. We should ever be cautious how we give way to the
figments of unbridled fancy. John Redman Coxe, M. D. who
was Professor of Chemistry, in the University of Pennsylvania,
when we attended that institution, has lately published a work
" On a Genus of Acephalous People in Ethiopia, as described by
St. Augustine." That there ever existed a people without heads,
we should hardly credit, although it was asserted by Augustine,
a saint. We presume, however, from the respectability of Dr.
Coxe, that he believed it, or else that he would not have given his
name to an account so marvellous.
But what we are next to mention, savours almost as strongly of
the wonderful, and yet it comes so well authenticated, that as it
has the name of the place where it happened, and the names of
the witnesses who saw it, we could not fail of noticing. It is an
account of a man who submitted to be buried alive for a
MONTH, and at the expiration of that period, was taken out
§ 13. The case occurred in a part of British India, and is
published in the " India Journal of Medical and Physical Sci-
encey It was communicated by H. M. Tweedell, Esq. ; and
it is substantiated by referring to Capt. Trevelyan, of the Bom-
bay Artillery, to Lieut. A. M. Boileau, of the Engineers, and to
Lieut. Macnaughten, of the fifth regiment of hght cavalry, as-
sistant to the Governor General in Rajpootanah.
* Rev. W11LLIA.M Jay, on the " Character and Narrative of the Rey,
John Clark," p. 52.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 441
The fellow was about thirty years of age, his native village not
far from Kurnaul. He told Major Spiers, of Ajmeer, of his
powers, and was laughed at as an impostor. Lieut. Macnaugh-
ten, however, who was then a cornet, put his abstinence to the
test, by suspending him for thirteen days, shut u^ in a wooden
chest, without food, and he came out alive ! The writer appears
to suppose that the buried performer was breathless during his
incarceration, for he says that the man by long practice, had ac-
quired the art of holdiug his breath, by shutting his mouth, and
stopping the interior opening of the nostrils with his tongue.
This opinion, however, is to be rejected at once ; for during his
four weeks burial, it appears that the grave was covered over
with two stone slabs, and it is not proved to have been air tight,
although the writer supposes that it was so. In many respects,
tlie experiment appears to have been conducted with much care ;
for in addition to the two stone slabs, which were each five or six
feet long, and several inches thick, and wide enough to cover the
mouth of the grave, there was also a watch placed outside, to see
that there was no deception practised. He was buried on the
bank of a tank, near the camp where the writer was. The pro-
cess of burying, and of disinterring, was conducted in the pres-
ence of Esur Lal^ a minister of one of the native princes or
governors, called the Muharawul. The guard, or watch which
was set round the grave, w^ere Chuprasees, in the employ of the
native prince.
The person, when he has a sufficient offer, for he requires to
be liberally paid, prepares himself to be buried, by abstaining
from solid food, for several days. This is done that no incon-
venience may arise from the contents of his stomach, whilst he
remains in his narrow house. His shroud, is a bag of cloth, in
which he is sewed up, and the grave is lined with masonry, and
floored with cloth. This last is done, in order to prevent the in-
cursion of white ants, which it seems, is the poor fellow's greatest
fear. His feet, it is said, are turned inwards towards his stomach,
and his hands pointed in the same direction, or towards his chest.
His grave was about three feet long, two and a half feet wide, and
about a yard deep. It was made through the floor of a small
building of masonry twelve feet by eight feet. He was placed in
3S
442 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
a sitting posture. The door of the building was securely walled
up. It was at his disinterment, at the end of a full month, that
the English visitors saw him. He was taken out in a perfectly
senseless state, his eyes closed, his hands cramped and powerless,
his stomach s|irunk very much, and his teeth jammed so fast to-
gether that they were forced to open his mouth with an iron in-
strument, to pour a little water down his throat. He gradually
recovered his senses, and the use of his limbs, and when we went
to see him, was sitting up, supported by two men, and conversed
with us in a low gentle tone of voice, saying, " that we might bury
him again for a twelvemonth if we pleased."
A man in England, being sentenced to three years' imprison-
ment, swallowed seven half crowns, lest they should be taken
from him. No bad effects followed, but at the end of twenty-
seven months, he complained of a slight pain and tenderness of
his abdomen, and a dose of medicine brought away the whole
number.
Jf'lavius Josephus mentions, that it was a frequent practice of
the Jews, during the seige of Jerusalem, by Titus, for them to
swallow pieces of gold, and then to desert to the Romans. These
pieces were evacuated, after their desertion, and sufficed to pro-
cure them the necessaries of life, which on account of the terrible
famine reigning in the city, could not be procured at any price
therein.
§ 14. A case was communicated to the Calcutta Medical
Society^ of a man, his wife and children, having been poisoned
by the milk of a goat. This poisonous quality of the milk, was
occasioned by the goat having been bitten by a snake.
We have had something of this kind of malady in America,
from persons having eaten of the flesh of animals which had
been bitten by a mad dog.
§ 15. A text of Scripture, read or recollected at a particular
crisis, has determined a person as to the path of his duty, and as
to acts of propriety, and even as to the state of his soul. Now,
although all Scripture be in itself true, still its application, com-
bination, and the deductions therefrom, may be erroneous.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 443
When it is said that Judas went and hanged himself, and when
it is said, go thou and do likewise, whoever would combine the
latter phrase with the former, would make a most unsanctified .
combination, authorizing the commission of self-murder, and
undermining all the original sense and meaning of these two
distant and different passages of the Bible.
Preachers, or those who would become preachers, have relied
much upon opening the Bible, or by being directed by passages of
Holy Writ falling upon their minds.
A man engaged in threshing wheat, feels an inclination to leave
that kind of business for preaching. The case of Gideon comes
to his mind, in which the angel of the Lord commissioned Gideon
to go and deliver Israel, as he was threshing wheat. All his
doubts, if any remain, are dispelled by these words next coming
to his eyes, ears, or mind, and which he applies to himself
—
" Arise, for the Lord is withtbee, thou mighty man of valour."
A religious lady who is unmarried, has an eligible offer, but
her suitor is not pious. Her doubts are all dissipated, her decis-
ion is fixed by opening the Bible, and casting her eyes on these
words ; —" Arise, therefore, and get thee down with the men,
doubting nothing ; for I have sent them."
" What thou doest do quickly," was an admonition upon a
particular occasion, addressed to a particular person, and for a
specific purpos3, by Jesus himself. But how often and how er-
roneously has this been applied to matters entirely different, and
ill timed 1 Precipitancy and ruin may have been the consequence
of these words misdirected, and sometimes applied to inexpedi-
ent, mischievous and wicked purposes.
§ 16. Mr. Jay tells us of his having read of a good old man,
who used to exhort people to live by the ten commandments, and
not by impulses ; and from this delusion of impulses, he used to
tell how he got free himself, by reverting to the decalogue.
When he was a lad, he was poor and pious, and thought all sug-
gestions in scripture style came from heaven. Walking in a
field, and being in want of firing, a neighbour's hedge presented
itself, and he wished for some of it to burn. Instantly these
words came
—
In all this Joh sinned not^ and in faith of this, he
444 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
began to make free with his neighbour's wood. But happily, he
tried this text by the command,—Thou shalt not steal, which
brought his error to hght ; or, as the ingenious relator remarks,
the word of God might have led him out of the church into the
jail.
§ 17. Some people have wisdom without being wise in its
application. Some have much scripture knowledge, but fail in
receiving its practical benefits.
§ 18. Without sunshine, rain and air, no husbandman can
have corn. His crop, therefDre, depends upon what he cannot
himself bestow. Still, it remains within his own power, to do
much ; for if he sows flints, he will have no corn ; and even if he
sows corn, upon fields unploughed, and lands untilled, his labour
will be lost, although sunshine, warmth and rain, be liberally
bestowed.
It has been very prettily observed, that a Christian should be
like the sun, which does good, not hj noise, but by shining.
III IIB^
i
i
^^^iS.=^^^i^au^- —,:_^;t-^"
^^m
§ 19. In Sweden, at a wedding, the priest who marries the
couple, sits at supper on one side the bride, whilst the bride-
groom sits on the other. The priest then, after the ancient
custom of that country, delivers an oration, in which he invites
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 445
the Saviour to be present, as he was at the marriage feast of
Cana, in Galilee.
At a Swedish wedding, all kinds of wine are not present, but
they make up the deficiency by having all kinds of cheese.
They have egg-cheese, toasted-cheese, sweet-cheese, and sour-
cheese.
§ 20. After the great earthquake which destroyed thirty thou-
sand persons in Judea, in the time of Herod the first, and who,
for his great many murders, is called Herod the great^ he said to
his soldiers, disturb not yourselves at the quaking of inanimate
things. But Herod could not dissipate a sure proverb ; that
afflictions are seldom forgotten, and mercies seldom remem-
bered.
This earthquake happened the same year that the battle of
Actium was fought. Herod, who had been an unwavering and
efficient friend of Antony, came to Caesar after that battle, and
desired him to remember how faithful a friend he had been, and
not whose friend. The conqueror of Cleopatra and her para-
mour, still continued Herod a king, and enlarged his dominions.
This was Augustus Ccesar.
Herod, who was capable of all sorts of the extremest wicked-
ness, had still a noble soul, and a talent for great and splendid and
magnificent undertakings. It \<^as be who built the temple at
Jerasalem, which was standing in the tmie of Christ, and his
apostles, and which was destroyed by the Romans, under Titus.
This was the last of the temples ; it being the third of those su-
perb and costly structures ; the first of which was built by Solo-
mon, which having felt the destructive ravages of time, fire and
war, was rebuilt after the Babylonish captivity, by Zerubbabel
;
and the third by Herod the Great, which is as yet the last ; al-
though another and a fourth is looked for by the Jews, as foretold
by the prophets, and which they mistakenly call the third.
This building of the second temple, when Zerubbabel was gov-
ernor of the Jews, n^erits a passing but particular notice. It was
done by leave of Cyrus, king of the Persians, and the possessor
of Babylon, by conquest ; for it was king Nebuchadnezzar, who
carried the Jews into captivity, and who pillaged the temple, and
38*
446 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
carried the holj vessels and sacred furniture away to Babylon,
together with the inhabitants of Jerusalem itself.
§ 21. Human nature must be viewed in various ways, in order
to complete its system, and the history of Cyrus affords a curious
picture, in its connections with history, both sacred and profane.
It had been foretold by Jeremiah, before this Babylonish destruc-
tion of Jerusalem, and the captivity of its inhabitants, that afrer
the Jews had served Nebuchadnezzar and his posterity, for sev-
enty years, that they should be restored to the land of their
fathers, and to the city of David and Solomon. The first year
of king Cyrus, was the seventieth year from the day that the
Jews were removed out of their own land into Babylon ; and in
this year, the first year of the reign of Cyrus, who had access to
the Jewish prophecies, anJ to the Bible, brought by the Jews to
Babylon, he wrote as follows :
—" Thus saith Cyrus the king,
since God Almighty hath appointed me to be king of the habita-
ble earth, I believe that he is that God which the nation of the
Israelites worship, for indeed he foretold my name by the
prophets, and that I should build him a house in Jerusalem, in
the country of Judea."
The foretellino- the leno^th of time that the Jews were to remain
in the Babylonish captivity, was by Jeremiah, but this mention
made of Cyrus, and of his own name having been foretold by
God, is by Isaiah.
" That saith of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and shall perform
all my pleasure ; even saying to Jerusalem, thou shalt be built,
and to the temple, thy foundation shalt be laid." Isaiah xliv. 28.
" This Cyrus is called God^s shepherd by Xenophon, as well
as by Isaiah." And the credibility of the historian is supported
by those, and by these words of the prophet—" I will make a
man more precious than fine gold, even a man than the golden
wedge of Ophir." Isaiah xiii. 12.
How Cyrus became acquainted with his duty, and of the will
of God, in this matter, we are informed by Josephus, who says,
*'
This was known to Cyrus by his reading the book which Isaiah
left behind him of the prophecies ; for this prophet said, that God
had spoken thus to him in a secret vision :
*'
My will is, that
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 447
Cyrus, whom I have appointed to be king over many and great
nations, send back my people to their own land, and build my
temple."*
Thus was Cyrus led to fulfil the prophecy of Isaiah, by having
read the prophecy itself, and by having therein found himself
pointed out as destined for the purpose.
But Mr. Whiston, the editor of the works of Josephus, thinks
that the rebuilding of the city of Jerusalem, as a distinct work
from that of rebuilding the temple, agreeably to this famous
prophecy of Isaiah, cannot be found to have been accomplished,
by, or in our Bibles. Nor indeed, can this prophecy be proved to
have been fulfilled at all, from any other source except from Jose-
phus alone.t
Cyrus did not himself live to the period that this work was ac-
complished, and upon his death, the Jews were interrupted by the
neighbouring nations. These nations and their governors repre-
sented Jerusalem as a bad city, and those who were rebuilding it
as rebels, and a seditious people against kings. And by reason
of these representations, it appears from the book of Ezra, in our
Bibles, that the Jews were interrupted, and a decree issued pro-
hibiting further proceedings.
This decree was made by Artaxerxes, the immediate successor
of Cyrus the great. But after Artaxerxes came Darius, who
upon being desired to have the records of his house and court
examined, found a decree of Cyrus, permitting the Jews to re-
build their city and temple, and he accordingly did permit the
work to proceed. And the temple was finished, as we read in
Ezra, vi. 15, in the sixth year of Darius.
One of the greatest accusations against Jerusalem was, that it
had always been an enemy to kings. This is found both in Ezra
* Josephus' Antiquities of the Jews, Book xi. Chap. 1, sec. 2. Josephus
tells us that this prediction of Isaiah, was one hundred and forty years before
the temple wasdemohshed. Both he and Ezra, (Chap. I. v. 1,) refer to Jere-
miah, as having foretold this captivity of the Jews, and that it should last seven-
ty years. But in our present copies of the Bible, I have not found any such
prediction by Jeremiah. It is probable, therefore, that both Ezra and Josephus
had copies of the sacred writings more perfect than those which have come
down to U9.
t See Note on the Antiquities of the Jews, Book xi. Chap. 1, sec. 1, p. 360.
448 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
and in Josephus. Hence Artaxerxes suspended the work. But
Darius, finding that the work had been decreed by Cyrus, reversed
the order of Artaxerxes, and the Jews were suffered to proceed.
§ 22. So eminent a person as was Cyrus, who was called
God^s shepherd, both by Xenophon and by Isaiah, merits a
further notice. His death varies with the various historians of
antiquity. By those who show his tomb at Persepolis, he is sup-
posed to have died quietly, and to have been buried by his friends,
decently, if not superbly, in his own dominions. By Josephus,
we learn nothing but the death of Cyrus, But from other histo-
rians, such as Diodorus, Herodotus, and Justin, we learn that
Cyrus marched against a Scythian nation, called the Massagetse,
and that he was defeated in a bloody battle, B. C. 530, by Tamy-
ris, the victorious queen of the Massagette ; and that this victori-
ous queen, incensed at the loss of her son, slain in a previous
battle, cut off the head of Cyrus the Great, and threw it into a
vessel filled with human blood.
The destruction of the temple of Solomon, which is to be
found in H. Chronicles xxxvi. 19, is recorded in the following
words :
—" And they burnt the house of God, and brake down
the wall of Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire,
and destroyed all the goodly vessels thereof."
But this second temple, built where that of Solomon had stood,
by the permission, and at the expense of Cyrus and Darius, was
sixty cubits lower than the first temple, which was built by Solo-
mon. It was Herod the Great, who erected the third temple, and
who restored its altitude and dimensions to those of the temple of
Solomon.
§ 23. Herod, in addressing the multitude of the Jews, upon
this subject, observes that, " Our fathers, indeed, when they were
returned from Babylon, built this temple to God Almighty ;
yet
does it want sixty cubits of its largeness in altitude, for so much
did that first temple which Solomon built exceed this temple
;
nor let any one condemn our fathers for their negligence or want
of piety therein, for it was not their fault that the temple was no
higher ; for they were Cyrus and Darius the son of Hystaspe&„
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 449
who determined the measure for its rebuilding ; and it hath been
by reason of the subjection of those fathers of ours to them and
to their posterity, and after them to tlie Macedonians, that they
had not the opportunity to follow the original model of this pious
edifice, nor could raise it to its ancient altitude ; but since I am
now by God's will your governor, and I have had peace a long
time, and have gained great riches and large revenues, and what
is the principal thing of all, I am in amity with and well regarded
by the Romans, who, if I may so say, are the rulers of the whole
world, I will do my endeavour to correct that imperfection, which
hath arisen from the necessity of our affairs, and the slavery we
have been under formerly ; and to make a thankful return after
the most pious manner, to God, for what blessings I have re-
ceived from him, by giving me this kingdom, and that by render-
ing his temple as complete as I am able."*
What a pious, what a submissive, what an unexceptionable
speech, to fall from the mouth of a Herod ! But we call the read-
er's attention to it most particularly, as illustrating the national
character of the Jews ; a people who were wont to display the acts
of the greatest piety to God, and of the greatest barbarity to men.
For this same Herod put his beautiful wife Mariamne to death,
who was a most excellent woman, and as Josephus remarks, the
shrewdest woman in the world ; and for the love of whom, he,
after her death, went mad. He also put to death his two sons,
Aristobulus and Alexander. And his other murders were innu-
merable. He was the Nero of the Holy Laud.
But of the temple, which Herod built, Josephus says that it was
the most prodigious work ever heard of by man. It was this
temple which the disciples came to Jesus to shew him the buildings
of, and of which he prophesied that not one stone should be left
upon another.! Herod, as Josephus tells us, took away the foun-
dations of the old temple, and laid others in the days of Nero
;
and that it was built of stones that were white and strong, each of
the length of twenty-five cubits, their height eight cubits, and
their breadth about twelve cubits. The whole length of the tem-
ple, built by Herod, was one hundred cubits. Its strength, its
* Antiquities of the Jews, Book xv. Chap. xi. § 1.
t Matthew xxiv. 1,2.
450 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
cloisters, and adornings, were all upon a most magnificent and
liberal scale, and cost more money than any one that preceded it.
And this was only one of a great number of expensive structures
erected by Herod, so that we are astonished at the immensity of
their cost, and puzzled to guess how the little kingdom of Judea
could supply revenues for their erection.
§ 24. His works at Cesarea, alone, which was a sea port of
the Mediterranean, formerly called Stratoh Tower^ would seem
to have been sufficient to have exhausted the revenues of a large
country. For he there not only built sumptuous palaces, and
large edifices, for containing the people, but he built also an
artificial basin for ships, to guard them against the impetuous
south winds, so that a fleet of large ships might lie in safety
there. This he did by letting down stones of about fifty feet in
length, not less than eighteen in breadth, and nine feet in depth,
or thickness, into water of twenty fathoms, (one hundred and
twenty feet,) deep ! And as some were lesser, so were others
bigger than those dimensions.
This mole was two hundred feet wide ; its entrance was on the
north side, because the winds from that quarter were the stidest
of all. It had a quay, or landing place, which ran round the
entire haven, and which was a most ao;reeable walk. There was
also a great number of arches, where the mariners dwelt.
One half of this marine wall was adorned with several towers,
one of which, and the largest, was named Drusus, after a son in
law of Ccesar, who died young, and was a work of very great ex-
cellence ; Herod always keeping an eye upon Rome and its great
men, whom he found it his interest to honor, and occasionally to
bribe. Upon this principle he erected a most costly and superb
structure in Jerusalem, called the tower of Antonia, in honor of
Mark Antony ; who, when in Egypt, and in possession of Cleopa-
tra, had a paramount influence in the afi'airs of Jerusalem, and
Judea. But it is not a little remarkable, that although Herod was
much given to the sex, that Cleopatra, who visited him at Jericho,
and off'ered him her own seduction, was refused by him. The
old fox, feeling more ambition for the queen of Egypt's dominions,
than love for her person, so that he had a serious intention of put-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 451
ting her to death, in order to become the possessor of her country ;
or rather, perhaps, to break up her possession of a part of his own
;
for she derived a part of her revenues from the country about
Jericho, which bore a certain balsam, the most precious of all
drugs. From this design, however, Herod's friends dissuaded
him, as tending to embroil him with Antony, who was then in
Egypt. He therefore instead of kilhng her, treated her kindly,
gave her presents, and conducted her on her way towards Egypt.
But in reality, he bore now, nor never, any high estimation of
Cleopatra ; but ever considered her inimical to himself personally,
although to some branches of his family she shewed her friend-
ship in very important respects.
§ 25. And this leads us to mention among the numerous
murders committed by tlie orders of Herod, some of them, as
serving to throw light upon the system of human nature itself,
upon human tyranny in particular, and upon the ruling passion,
even in death.
Mariamne, the beautiful and beloved wife of Herod the Great,
had an only brother, named Aristobulus. They were grand
children of Hyrcanus the high priest. Their father, Aristobulus,
was also high priest, and was the first of that order who assumed
the title of king. Herod was the son of Antipater, an Iduraean,
and became connected with the royal lineage of the Jews, by
marrying Mariamne, he having no royal blood by birth.
Both Mariamne, and her brother Aristobulus, were extremely
beautiful ; insomuch that Dellius, a friend of Mark Antony, who
came into Judea, when he saw them, exclaimed that they could
not be mortals, but must have originated from some god.
Their mother's name was Alexandra, a woman who made a
great figure in the court of her son in law, Herod. As young
Aristobulus was the son and grand son of high priests, Mariamne
urged Herod to confer the same honor upon him, her brother,
and make him high priest also. This Herod did, but took care
to have him murdered soon afterwards ; being jealous of the
popularity which he found him to possess, and which the people
of Jerusalem manifested for their young high priest, who was
very tall and handsome, and not yet eighteen years old. A most
452 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
open display of admiration having been made for him upon bis
first officiating as high priest, at the feast of tabernacles, determin-
ed Herod not to delay his destruction.
Upon a certain very hot day, some of Herod's servants and
acquaintance went into the fish ponds, of which there were large
ones about his house at Jericho, to bathe. Herod, and the young
high priest, Aristobulus, were at first spectators of their swimming,
but at the approach of the dark of the evening, the young man,
at the instigation of Herod, went into the water among them
;
when such of Herod's creatures as he had appointed for the pur-
pose, dipped him as he was swimming, and plunged him under
water, as if it had been done in sport only. Nor did they desist,
till he was entirely suffocated. And thus was Aristobulus mur-
dered, being only in his eighteenth year, and having held the
high priesthood one year only. Herod took care that none abroad
should believe that the child's death took place by any design of
his, or at least he so endeavored. And to carry on the deception
he shed many tears himself, and made for the deceased a magni-
ficent funeral, providing a great quantity of spices, and burying
many ornaments together with him.
Every family in Jerusalem considered the calamity not as if it
belonged to another, but as if one of themselves was slain. Alex-
andra, the young man's mother, was more deeply affected upon
her knowledge that he was destroyed on purpose. Accordingly,
she wrote to Cleopatra, how her son was murdered, who excited
Antony to punish the young man's murder ; telling him that it
was an unworthy thing that Herod, who had been made king by
him, and that of a kingdom that no way belonged to him, should
be guilty of such horrid crimes, against those who were of the
blood royal, in reality. Antony was persuaded by these argu-
ments, and when he came to Laodicea, he sent and commanded
Herod to come and make his defence. Herod was in fear, both
of the accusation and of Cleopatra's ill will, who was ever trying
to make Antony hate him. But he determined to obey the sum-
mons, having no plausible excuse, nor expedient way to avoid it.
He therefore went, leaving his uncle Joseph, procurator of his
government, to whom before his departure, he gave a private
^charge, that if Antony should kill him, that he should kill his
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 453
beautiful and beloved wife Mariamne, immediately; he having
an affection for her, that the thought of her being another's, even
after his death, was intolerable ; and probably thinking that An-
tony himself would seek to possess her, as the fame of her beauty
had reached his ears.
§ 26. Herod, however, by the rich presents which he carried
to Antony, overcame his resentment, and he was suffered to re-
turn to his kingdom, alive and welL It happened, however, that
during his absence, that Joseph, who had frequent matters of
business with the queen, in order to demonstrate the great affec-
tion of Herod for her, mentioned his orders, to put her to death,
in case he was put to death himself, as he could not endure a
separation even after he was dead. Herod had a sister Salome,
w^ho was a woman of an intriguing and resentful disposition, and
who felt no good will to Mariamne, because she had reproached
her with the meanness of her birth. This woman informed Herod
that Joseph had had frequent criminal conversation with his queen
during his absence ; which was a base calumny, but sufficient to
disturb the jealous disposition of Herod, whose affection for her
was vehement. He therefore questioned her about it by herself,
but she denied it upon her oath, and said all that an innocent
woman could possibly say, in defence of her innocence ; so that
Herod was prevailed upon to drop the suspicion, and returned a
great many acknowledgements of her pure and virtuous conduct
;
so that, lover-like, they both fell into tears, and embraced each
other with a most tender affection. But as the king gave more
and more assurances of his belief in her fidelity, and endeavored
to draw her to a like confidence in himself, Mariamne said, " Yet
was not that command thou gavest, that if any harm came to thee
from Antony, I, who had been no occasion of it, should perish
with thee, a sign of thy love to me." At these words king Herod
was very much shocked, and presently let her go out of his arms,
and cried out, and tore his hair with his own hands ; exclaiming,
that he had now an evident demonstration that Joseph had had
criminal conversation with his wife ; for that otherwise he would
never have uttered what he had told him by himself alone, unless
there had been such a familiarity, and firm confidence between
39
454 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
them. And whilst he was in this passion he had like to have
killed Mariamne ; but being still overt)orne by his love for her, he
refrained from murder, but a lasting grief and disquietness of
mind was the consequence. As to Joseph, he ordered him to be
slain without permitting him to come into his sight. This Joseph
was the husband of Herod's sister Salome, who was his niece as
well as wife.
Herod next murdered Hyreanus, the grandfather of his wife
Mariamne, a man eighty years old, and upwards ; and who had
been king and high priest. He had seen various turns of fortune,
had been a prisoner to the Parthians, and to Antigonus, the latter
of whom cut off his ears, that he might never be high priest again ;
it being contrary to the law of Moses, (Lev. xxi. 17—24,) that
any one should hold the priesthood who was not icithout blemish,
§ 27. After the battle of Actium, and the death of Mark An-
tony and Cleopatra, and the elevation of Augustus Caesar to the
empire, Herod sailed away to Rhodes, to pay his respects to the
conqueror. Upon this occasion he left Mariamne, and her
mother Alexandra, in the care of his treasurer Joseph, and Sohe-
mus of Iturea; and with a charge that if they- should hear that
any mischief had befallen him, that they should kill them both.
For he had some sufepicion of Augustus, from his having been the
friend of Antony.
But the ladies were much dissatisfied with Herod's arrange-
ment ; for instead of being left in a palace, they were put into a
fortress, and they considered Joseph and Sohemus rather as their
keepers than servants. To the latter, therefore, they used kind
words, and made liberal presents, and he considering that if
Herod should not return, that these women would probably sus-
tain prominent situations in the succeeding government, at length
made known to them the secret orders of Herod for their own
destruction, in case he should not come back. Manamne noAv
thought Herod's affection to her hypocritical, when she called to
mind the former orders of the same kind ; and she began to see
that there was no end to the dangers which she was exposed to
from Herod, so that she wished that he might obtain no favors
from Caesar. She found her future prospects of happiness blasted,
THE TONGUE OP TIME, 455
SO long as he lived ; and as to any thing after his death, in case
she survived him, she found that he was determined that she
should be put to death as soon as he himself was dead. These
things she openly declared, without concealing her resentment.
And now Herod returned home with joy, for he had made
Caesar his friend, who established the crown upon his head more
firmly than ever ; and to whom the king of the little kingdom of
Judea had presented eight hundred talents, as well as provisions
and wine for his army, as it was marching from Syria to invade
Egypt. But Cgesar greatly increased Herod's dominions, and
restored to him those parts which Cleopatra had possessed in her
lifetime. He also added to his kingdom Gadara, Hippos, and
Samaria ; and besides these, the maratime cities, Gaza, Anthe-
don, Joppa, and Strato's Tower, afterwards Cesarea.
But as Herod's affairs prospered with Caesar, they declined in
his own family. His mother and sister Salome, were in irrecon-
cileable hatred to Mariamne ; the latter having often reproached
them with the meanness of their birth ; and who lately, to Herod
himself, had behaved in an imperious and saucy manner, taking
advantage of his extreme affection for her, and resenting the or-
ders which he had twice left behind him, when he went abroad,
to have her put to death in case he did not return. She finally
sealed her own fate, by refusing him her embraces, and by re-
proaching him with the murder of her relations.
§ 28. That Sohemus had divulged to Mariamne his secret
orders, was discovered by Herod's ordering a eunuch, belonging
to her to be put to the torture. He therefore ordered Sohemus to
be slain immediately ; but as to Mariamne he had a kind of mock
trial of her case, which ended by her being condemned to death.
She met her fate with a dignity becoming her royal descent, her
excellent character, and greatness of soul.
But Herod was severely punished, by an inflammation of the
brain, a pain in the back of his head, and downright madness
;
so that he would call for Mariamne, and order his servants to call
her, as though she were still alive. And when she did not come,
his lamentations would break forth in a most boisterous and vio-
lent manner.
456 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
A pestilential disease also broke out about the same period,
which carried off the greater part of the friends whom Herod
most of all esteemed ; so that all men suspected that this distem-
per was brought upon them from the anger of God, for the injus-
tice that had been done to Mariamne. This circumstance
afflicted the king still more ; so that at length despair seized him,
and he went into desert places and bitterly afflicted himself.
But notwithstanding, he did not leave off murdering, for he
soon had Alexandra, the mother of his late wife slain, as also
Costobarus, the husband, after her first husband's death, of his
sister Salome. This he did not do, however, until Salome had
quarrelled with her husband, Costobarus, and dissolved their
marriage by sending him a bill of divorce. Thus it appears that
women did sometimes divorce their husbands, among the Jews,
although the laws of Moses only gave permission for a husband
to divorce his wife.*
With his sister's husband, Herod slew five other persons, three
of whom were his own most intimate friends. Nor did his distress
for Mariamne, nor his affection for her, prevent his again falling in
love. The obligations he was under to Caesar, and the respect
which he had for him,mduced him to imitate the customs of Rome,
to the scandal of the Jewish customs, and to the grief of the strict
and religious Jews ; for he built a theatre at Jerusalem, and an
amphitheatre on the plain, where chariot races, musicians, wrest-
lers, and games, were encouraged by liberal prizes to the victors.
He made also a great collection of lions, and of such other wild
beasts as were of uncommon strength, or rarely seen. Some of
the exercises for which great rewards were offered to the victors,
were performed by men entirely naked.
Inscriptions of the great actions of Caesar, and trophies of those
nations which he had conquered in his wars, and all made of the
purest gold and silver, encompassed the theatre itself. Men were
exhibited contending with ferocious wild beasts, either to please
the multitude, or for hire, or as criminals, which were thrown to
them to be torn in pieces.
Herod soon after married a young lady, having the reputation
of the most beautiful woman in the world. She was the daughter
* Antiquities of the Jews, B. 15, C. 7, p. 533.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 457
of Simon, a citizen of Jerusalem. And to elevate her and her
family to a dignity becoming royalty, Herod displaced the high
priest then in office, and elevated his wife's father to the high
priesthood.
39*
CHAPTER XIV.
HISTORY AND ANECDOTES OF WOMEN. OF THE BEST METHOD OF
FEMALES MANAGING PROPERTY, AND PRESERVING THEIR ESTATES.
OF PRAYER. DECEIT. SINGULAR CASE. HORTENSE ON OPTICS.
CONCLUSION.
§ 1. Woman was not made of the dust of the earth like man
and all other creatures ; but ^he was made of a part of man.
That part did not contain his heart, brain nor soul, however.
Adam said she was bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh, but he
did not say she was mind of his mind. She had a mind of her
own. It has often been said that Mahomet taught that women
had no souls. This point was thought of so much consequence
to determine, that the divines of Berlin made a prize question of
it. A thorough examination of the Koran was made, and the
prize obtained. But the result was, that it contained no such
assertion. It was entirely silent upon the subject. This matter
then, may be considered as decided, and at rest.
In savage nations, women are the servile slaves of the men,
and the more barbarous the tribe, the more degraded the females.
§ 2. It is Christianity that has elevated the female sex to their
present eminent station in society. Among the Jews, a wife was
a wife, just as long as her husband pleased to consider her so.
When he had a mind to put her away, all he had to do was to
give her a writing of divorcement. This writing merely stated
that he would not any longer live with her as a wife. She had
then liberty to marry another man. It was entirely foreign from
the ideas of a Jew, when he married, or when he formed the
marriage contract, that it was for life.
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 459
The disparity of power and privilege between the sexes, was
very striking in the Jewish nation. A man might have his son
put to death for being a glutton, a wine-bibber, or for disobedi-
ence. A woman had no such power. In time of mourning, a
man might shave his head and rend his clothes, a woman might
do neither. A man might subject his son to the vow of a Naza-
rite, a woman could not do it. A man might betroth his daugh-
ter, or even sell her, neither of which his wife could do. The
women were not permitted to assemble in the body of the syna-
gogue with the men. They were consigned to the galleries,
where they, on account of the lattices and want of light, could
not be seen, nor scarcely see. They were in many respects,
treated more like children than like persons of mature age.
A Jew had no notion of confining himself to one woman for
life, nor even for a part of his life. Hence polygamy and concu-
binage were universal in the patriarchal age, and amongst the
patriarchs themselves. And what would seem very foreign from
the ideas of Christians, concubines were assigned by wives to
their husbands. Rachel assigned to Jacob, her handmaid Bil-
hali, and Leah, her maid Zilpah.
§ 3. Concubines even seem to have taken the precedence of
wives. When David, in the rebellion of Absalom, fled beyond
Jordan, he left the care of his royal house to his ten concubines.
And this, so far as we recollect, is the only instance of any thing
like a female regency among the Jews. After this rebellion was
quelled, David did not, as we are told, go in to these women
any more. This was owing to the conduct of Absalom, by the
advice of Ahithophel, when he had fled towards these his concu-
bines. He maintained them, however, in the royal residence
after the rebellion was quelled, so long as they lived. But what
struck us as a matter of curiosity, in this 'aff*air, was that they are
said to have lived in a state of widowhood. (II. Samuel xx. 3.)
§ 4. Polygamy was not only allowed and practised among
the Hebrews, but in a certain case ordained. When a brother
died without children, and left a widow, the surviving brother
was directed to take her and raise up seed unto his brother ; and
460 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
there was no exception made as to his having one or more wives
already.
In ancient Greece, polygamy did not prevail. If it was per-
mitted it was not practised. Women were deified in Greece.
RhecB^ Proserpine^ Juno, Venus, and Minerva, were instances of
the elevation of women to goddesses. The social state of the
sex, therefore, was there, far above what it was in Judea. In
this respect, the English and Americans, more partake of Gre-
cian than of Jewish customs.
England has been called the heaven of women, and the hell
of horses. The cataracts, the lakes, the caves, the mountains,
the sea-shore, the city, the country, and the springs, tempt the
ladies, and jaunt the horses.
§ 5. At the highest point of civilization and splendor in Ju-
dea, which was in the time of Solomon, the women were the
family spinners, and weavers, and clothiers ; the girdle- sellers
abroad, and the body-linen makers at home. This was true,
likewise, in the Augustan age at Rome. The queen and daugh-
ter of Augustus, manufactured the clothes of that emperor, with
their own hands, assisted by their servants.
The oracle of religion was Judea, the cradle of arts and intel-
lect, Greece, and the cradle of arms, Rome.
Infanticide was practised in Greece, when the infant did not
appear to be worth raising, from deformity, idiocy, or imbecility.
It was there, also, that the wanton prevailed over the statesman,
the soldier, and the philosopher. Beautiful women were far less
common in Greece, than in Judea, but they had more mind ; and
when a beautiful woman became a courtezan, and was endowed
with superior mental powers, she bore a sway unbounded, and
entirely unknown in modern times. And what is not a little
curious, if not unparalleled, they appear to have elevated the
minds of their paramours, instead of debasing them.
It has even been supposed, that the great and good, and philo-
sophic Socrates, owed something of his superior talents to As-
tasia ; and that Pericles, that superior soldier, statesman and
citizen, had his mind magnetized from the same source. He
made Aspasia his mistress, and afterwards his wife. Even Plato
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 461
attests to the excellency of her accomplishments. She was a
teacher of eloquence at Athens. And he does not hesitate, in
awarding to her instructions, the formation of some of the most
eloquent orators of the age. A very high encomium from such a
source surely. Still, that the morals of the Athenians suffered
from the conduct of Pericles, towards Aspasia, there can be no
doubt. With personal charms of the very first order, she possess-
ed a superior elevation, we can hardly call it excellence of mind.
§ 6. There was another woman of the same name, and almost
equally pre-eminent, both for her personal charms, and under-
standing. She was born in Ionia, a country of Asia Minor, in
the town of Phocse. She was priestess to the Sun, and mistress
to three kings, to Cyrus first, afterwards to Artaxerxes, and then
to Darius.
Without such stimuli, such over excitement, philosophers
might not have philosophized, nor generals fought, nor orators
have been heard, nor kings have conquered. But what then 1
Perhaps the world, and especially its brightest gem, morality,
had been better ofi" without than with towering talents, from such
a source.
In the time of Lycurgus, female influence showed itself in
another form. It was not in single cases of exalted beauty, but
in the united efforts of the feminine community in general ; and
their influence was directed, and their talents exerted, in rousing
ihe whole arm-bearing population to deeds of valour, heroic and
chivalrous.
To individuals of the sex, we might refer for much of heathen
glory ; but alas for t?iat precious gem, virtue !
Lais was a courtezan of Corinth, who sold her favors for ten
thousand drachma. Poets, philosophers, and even cynics, throng-
ed around her, and he would have been disgraced, who had
possessed so little of taste, that he did not admire her, or at least
pretend so to do. That Alcibiades, was her paramour, is not
surprising, but that Diogenes, who lived in a tub, and who told
Alexander the Great, when he came to see him, that he wanted
nothing of him, except that he would stand out of his swwsAiwe,
lived by her smiles, is truly marvellous. Lais was finally put to
402 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
death) by a combination of married women, for fear that she
would corrupt their husbands ; an act not to be justified most
certainly, to commit murder for fear that adultery might be com-
mitted. It helps, however, to form a part of the history of
women.
The accumulation of wealth, by some of the ancient courte-
zans was truly surprising.
§ 7. One of this descriplion, PJiryne by name, had amassed
such vast treasures by her profession, that she offered to rebuild
the whole city of Thebes, at her own expense. She flourished at
Athens, about 23S years before the Christian era, and was mis-
tress to Praxitilles, the famous sculptor. He drew her picture,
which was such a master piece of art, and delineated so beautiful
an original, that it was placed in the temple of Apollo at Delphi.
Solomon, who was so well acquainted with all sorts of women,
awards the meed of excellence to the truly virtuous and industri-
ous—to her who despises the baubles and glitter of life ; the
paths of the vicious, and who putteth her hand to the distaff, and
who makes the domestic circle her home, her palace. The frail-
ties of great men form the comfort and delight of fools, and he
who fixes his eye on deformity, is himself deformed. This re-
mark forcibly applies to the character of Solomon, and to the use
that some persons make of his failings.
§ 8. Some of the most striking events which the world has
known, have had their origin from women. The chastitj^ of the
virtuous Lucretia was violated by the son of Tarquin the proud.
But Rome adequately revenged her cause. Mortified, past the
endurance of life, she perished by a dagger, wielded by her own
hand. And the consequences were, that the Tarquins were ex-
pelled from Rome, the monarchy was abolished, and a republi-
can government established in its stead.
Another Roman lady, Virginia, was taken captive by Appius
Claudius, one of the Decemvirs ; but before his vile purposes
were consummated, her father arrived from the camp and desired
to see his captive daughter. His request was granted ; when he
snatched a knife and plunged it into Virginia's breast, exclaim-
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 463
ing, " This is all my dearest daughter, I can give thee, to pre-
serve thy chastity from the lust and violence of a tyrant." The
bloody knife was shown to the soldiers by Virginia's father, who
were so incensed that they immediately marched to Rome. Ap-
pius was seized and committed to prison, where he destroyed
himself to prevent the execution of the law. A revolution was
the consequence, and the government of the Decemvirs abol-
ished.
Volumnia, the mother of Coriolanus, preserved Rome from its
impending destruction. Coriolanus, from the ingratitude of
Rome, had joined its enemies, the Valsci, and would have de-
stroyed his native city, had it not been for the intercessions of his
mother and wife. The readers of Shakspeare, are already in-
formed of these particulars, in the tragedy of Coriolanus. The
Roman senate decreed to Volumnia, whatever reward she should
ask ; and pleasing to relate, her request extended to her whole
sex. It was that a temple should be erected to female fortune.
Such a temple was erected, and situated upon the identical spot,
where she had arrested the career of her son.
We delight to trace the feelings, and even some of the faults of
females, when they are feminine ; for when faults are found, as
they are the common lot of humanity, we expect to find them
less glaring than in the other sex. But when women desert their
standard and assume the masculine character, we find them off
their ground. They are out of place, although they may not act
out of character.
In feats of horsemanship, in the circus, with bows and arrows,
or pistols or muskets, and more especially in fencing and wrest-
ling, a woman is like a dog or a bear walking on his hind legs.
They may excite the mirth of the mob and the shouts of the
vulgar ; but the pity or the derision of the refined and well-bred
man, surely awaits them.
§ 9. No polished man, of modern times, ever viewed the
Spartan female character with any great complacency, although
he might be compelled to admit that martial deeds may have
sprung from it. There was not that display of tenderness and
feeling which is the brightest ornament of beauty. The stern
464 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
heart of man, requires delicacy in woman. The Spartan mother,
when her son was about to depart for the field of blood and
battle, delivered him his shield herself, exhorting him to conquer
or die, telling him to bring back his shield, or dead or wounded,
to be brought back upon it. " Either this or upon this," were
her words. They were martial but not maternal.
We have seen in our short travels, women laboring in the corn-
fields of western New York. In time of peace, if men do their
duty, it is seldom necessary for women to do this. Let the Solo-
mon and Augustine ages be the standard. Exclude all from the
field, and none from the distaff. But all antiquity was made up
of extremes. It is Christianity which has levelled the asperities
of Paganism and Judaism, and given women a station in society
but little lower than the angels. The ancient Germans took their
wives with them into the field of battle ; but the ancient Romans
took not their women with them even to their social parties.
Among the Jews, women and children, and slaves and concu-
bines, were very much on a level. We are to account for the
frequent scenes of blood and murder, assassination and treache-
ry, among the ancients, from their social circles having been
wholly composed of males. Matters of this kind are seldom
perpetrated without previous concert ; and in circles where the
softer sex are excluded, such concerts are held.
It is female society that has tempered the mortar of modern
times ; and it is modern times that have produced such females
as Hannah More, Miss Edgeworth, Madame de Stael, and Jose-
phine. Surely Buonaparte could not say as did Solomon, that he
had not found one good woman in a thousand. (Eccles. vii. 28.)
§ 10. It is Christianity, let the sect be what it may, that has
elevated the female character to its proper dignity. And it has
surprised me, that as it has removed female happiness and com-
fort to the farthest extreme from the savage state, that the women
of our savage tribes, have not discovered it, and been more ready
to embrace its precepts. How immensely superior are the com-
fi^rts of the slaves of the South, to those of the Indians of the
West ! There is no comparison betwixt them as it relates to the
females-
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 465
It is an interesting matter of inquiiy why women of barbarous
countries, so readily received the Gospel in ancient times, and
are so backward in that respect now. It was however, true, that
all classes seem to have been more easy to convert in the early
ages of our era than at present. Convents afforded women a
home, a shelter, a safe abode, from violation and hardship ; and
this is undoubtedly one reason. Still, it does not solve the whole
difficulty, for the Roman Catholics of MexicOj, have convents
now, but female savages do not resort to them. Indeed, we can-
not learn that the Romanists of the South, have made any great- (^^
er progress in converting the Indians, than the Protestants of the
North. Monastic institutions appear to have been formed for the
purpose, at least in part, for sheltering the defenceless, in the
world's dark and barbarous ages. And it would seem that some-
thing of the kind would ever have an admirable effect in coun-
tries which had no laws, but those which suffered the strong to
trample on the weak ; the ruthless to despoil the innocent.
Are modern barbarians made of " sterner stuff," than ancient
ones "? or is there a physical difference of constitution 1 I suspect
that the latter may be true as relates to the American aborigines,
and that the sexual appetite is less imperative. Our Indians
frequently take female white prisoners, but we never hear of cases
of violation. Not so in the case where negroes have white women
in their power.
§ 11. The Jews were a nation, the male part of it, very much
given to libidinous passions ; and this is one reason why I cannot
agree with Mr. Boudinot, that our Indians are descended from
the lost ten tribes, as he supposes.
Some impute the cause of the ancient heathen more readily
embracing the Gospel, to the greater purily in the lives of Chris-
tians. In ancient Rome, at its first settlement, the inhabitants
were wholly men, who had to go among another nation to pro-
cure themselves wives. Thus courtship was short, and carried on
by companies of men, who went by dozens and scores among
the Sabines. So scarce and so dear was the sex, that he who
could procure a woman, immediately made her his wife. But
"courtship proceeded upon a larger scale at last ; and a small
40
W6 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
army of men carried to Rome an army of women. This is
called the rape of the Sabine women.
The Romans were prosperous without the other sex, but they
were not happy. The Sabine men resented the affront, and
declared war ; but we hear of no complaint whatever from the
women. Wives became mothers, and in process of time grand-
mothers. All the endearments of social life, and family attach-
ment, followed on in course. They became domesticated to the
homes of their husbands, and as a natural consequence, to the
city of Rome.
Romulus, with his twin-brother Remus, had been thrown into
the river Tiber, when infants, by the orders of an uncle of theirs;
for they had royal blood in their veins. They seem, however, to
have floated on shore, and were suckled by a she wolf, until some
shepherds found them, carried them home, and brought them up
as their own children.
Romulus was the founder and builder of Rome ; for when the
twins grew up, they put their uncle, who had treated them so
barbarously, and who had usurped the throne, to death.
It is not surprising that he who had sucked a wolf, should have
highly esteemed women, and that his subjects should have done
likewise. The high admiration of the human face divine, when
that face adorned the female form, the high estimation of female
virtues and graces, and the superior privileges of the sex, may be
referred to their first king having been nursed by a wild beast, and
to the scarcity of wives, at the first settlement of Rome.
To praise women in the tribune, to eulogise them at their
funerals, and to erect monuments to their memory, when dead,
were things done by the most noble men of that noble nation
;
and they were acts which reverberated back upon the actors, the
meed of gallantry and gratitude. The women were made priest-
esses ; the vestal virgins had the care of the sacred fire, and the
custody of those shrines which required keepers of spotless
purity. Still, it must not be forgotten, that some could be found,
even in those early and vestal times, who degraded the dignity of
their sex, and disgraced their origin. A Catiline and a Clodius,
could be admitted into the private apartments of the first married
ladies in Rome.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 467
Julia Augusta, was the only daughter of Augustus Caesar.
She was remarkable for her beauty and genius, and more re-
markable for her unbounded licentiousness. A disgrace to the
royal line, the luckless girl was stoned to death by Tiberias, the
successor of Augustus. However ill deserving Julia might have
been, she fell a victim to a cruel and barbarous tyrant.
Another Julia, the daughter of Germanicus, was still more in-
famous for her debaucheries. She was the sister of Caligula,
who is accused of being her first seducer. He finally banished
her upon suspicion of conspiracy. She was after a while recall-
ed by the emperor Claudius, whose murder she brought about by
the intrigues of Agripina, his wife, by means of poison. Julia,
at the time of being guilty of such monstrous crimes, was scarce-
ly twenty-four years of age. Agripina, was accessory to the
death of her husband, that her son might succeed to the crown.
Women sometimes love their sons better than they do their hus-
bands.
A third Julia, was the daughter of the excellent emperor Titus.
She prostituted herself to her brother, the emperor Domitian.
The first Julia, we have not mentioned yet. She was a model
of virtue and excellence, the daughter of Julius Csesar. She was
well married, but her father compelled her to divorce her husband,
in order to her marrying Pompey the great. She died suddenly
in childbed.
The history of Roman women, abounds with virtue the most
splendid, and vices the most abominable. The contrast was
greater at Rome than at Jerusalem. There was no country in
which widows mourned their husbands so long as in Jewry, how-
ever ; a trait of character in the Jewesses, which proved their
connubial attachment, however rare such examples were set them
by the men.
§ 12. Judith had been a widow three years and four months,
when the Assyrians besieged her place of residence. This was
Bethulia, a city situated between Jerusalem and Jericho. And
all this time—this three years and four months—she had fasted,
except upon the Sabbaths, and Sabbath evenings, upon the eves
of the new moons, and other festivals of her nation. With re-
4618 THE TONGfUE OP TIME.
gard to the Jewish fasts, however, it is said, that they were ob-
served generally only in the day time, and tlmt the faster ate at
night. From the great length of time that Judith is said to have
fasted, this is probably the case. For as we learn, she was still
extremely beautiful ; whereas, she must have been extremely
emaciated, if not dead, had it been otherwise.
She had also all this time worn sackcloth, and dwelt in a tent
on the top of her flat roofed house. Her husband, Manasses,
had died in barley harvest, by a coup de soliel, or stroke of the
sun ; a disease which kills suddenly, and is sometimes raistakeu
for apoplexy. Gen. Greene, a major general in the American-
Revolution, is said to have died with a like stroke of the sun, in
Georgia, in 1786.
In Jewish history we find no heroine comparable with Judith.
Nebuchadnezzar had made war upon the Jews. He was king of
Assyria, and had his capital at Nineveh. His general was Holo-
fornes, who invaded the hill country of Judea, besieged Bethulia,
and caused exquisite distress, by cutting off the aqueducts that
supplied the city with water.
In this state, the rulers of the place, Ozias being at their head,
made an oath to the citizens, that they would surrender the city in
five days to the enemy, unless some relief could be afforded before
the end of that time.
It was in this exigence that Judith, the rich, handsome young
widow, stepped forward, and with a degree of firmness and reso-
lution which denoted a very high order of intellect and self-posses-
sion, proffered her services to save the city. These are words she
used. " Then said Judith unto them, Hear me, and I will do a
thing which shall go throughout all generations to the children of
our nation."
After uttering an impressive, urgent, and excellent prayer, she
entered on her hazardous enterprise. Her prayer was as follows
:
" Smite by the deceit of my lips, the servant with the prince, and
the prince with the servant ; break down their stateliness by the
hand of a woman. For thy power standeth not in multitude, nor
thy might in strong men ; for thou art a God of the afflicted, an
helper of the oppressed, an upholder of the weak, a protector of
the forlorn, a saviour of them that are without hope. I pray thee,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 469
I pray thee, O God of my fathers, and God of the inheritance of
Israel, Lord of the heavens and earth, Creator of the waters, King
of every creature, hear thou my prayer; and make my speech
and deceit to be their wound and stripe, who have purposed cruel
things against the top of Sion, and against the house of the pos-
session of thy children. And make every nation and tribe to
acknowledge that thou art the God of all power and might, and
that there is none other that protecteth the people of Israel but
thou."
Judith then throwing off the weeds of her widowhood, decked
herself in splendid apparel, and braided her hair, and anointed
herself with precious ointment, and put on herself bracelets, and
chains, and rings, and ear-rings, and a tire upon her head. When
thus bedecked, she was a splendid paragon of female beauty
;
the admiration of every beholder. Giving her maid a bottle of
wine, a cruse of oil, and a bag filled with parched corn, lumps of
figs, and fine bread, she proceeded towards the camp of Holofor-
nes. When she came to the first watch, or sentinel, of the hostile
army, he examined her strictly, as to who and what she was, and
what she wanted. She answered promptly. She said that she
was a woman of the Hebrews, from whom she was flying ; and
whom she represented as about to be consumed, and that she was
going to Holofornes, to show him a way by which he could take
the besieged city, without the loss of a single man. Struck with
her dignity and beauty, and the purport of her errand, a hundred
men were selected to conduct her to their lord, the commander in
chief.
A high opinion of the Jews was immediately formed, from the
dignity and fascinating appearance of a single woman of their
nation. And an expression worthy of notice was made on the
occasion, by the Assyrian general. It* was, that not a single man
of the Jews ought to be left alive, because he might deceive the
whole earth. And it proved in the sequel, that if Judith was to
pass as a sample of Jewish deception, that he judged correctly.
She was introduced into the tent of Holofornes, whom she found
lying under a canopy of purple adorned with gold, and emerald,
and precious stones. And she fell down on her face before him,
and his servants took her up. He received her kindly, promising
40* «
470 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
her protection ; assuring her that he would give comfort to all
who were friends to his lord the king of all the earth.
In return, Judith in the name of God, promised him succe&s
against the Jews, if he would follow her counsel; and that all,
both man and beast, should come under the dominion of hi« lord
and king ; and that they, as well as the fowls of the air, should
live by him and his vicegerent, Holofornes. She also assured him
that his wisdom and policy were known and admired by all the
earth ; and that he was known to be the most excellent and
valiant in feats of war, of all his nation. Here was consummate
falsehood mingled with the deepest hypocrisy.
Thus did Judith fatten her victim with flattery, before she sacri-
ficed him.
Further, she represented her people as having broken the laws
of their God, in making use of consecrated things for forbidden
uses. This they had dane during the straitness of the siege, but
still it was unlawful ; and for this crime they were abandoned by
God, and would fall an easy and certain prey to man.
She told him of herself, that she was religious, and served God
day and night. And thus raising a high opinion in the mind of
Holofornes, of her sanctity, veracity, and fidelity, he felt no sus-
picion of her integrity. And this was not all. She likewise firmly
assured him of her knowledge of future events, by which she
knew that he would not only capture Bethulia, but that she would
lead him through all Judea, till he came to Jerusalem ; and that
then, anjd there, by her means, she should see him seated on the
Jewish throne. And that not so much as a dog should open his
mouth at him.
Holofornes replied, that she was both beautiful in her counte-
nance,jjad witty in her words ; and that if she did as she had said,
and that which she had prophesied came to pass, her God should
be his God, ahd that she should dwell in the presence of his lord
the king of Assyria. To keep up the appearance of the utmost
piety, she arose at midnight, and sent a request to Holofornes for
permission to- go forth to prayer ; which was granted. . To pay
her the utmost respect he brought her into the apartment where
his plate was set, and ordered a splendid feast to be prepared,
inviting her to partake of his own meat and wine. But at this
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 471
first entertainment, Judith refused to eat or drink ; choosing to
make use only of those provisions which she brought with her,
according to the rules of her nation. But she found it convenient
to deviate in this respect, upon another feast having been made
for her ; upon which occasion she assumed submission to every
thing that her host should desire, and liberally partook of the
viands and the wine ; so that both Judith and Holofornes drank
more wine that day than upon any other day since either of them
was born. When the feast was ended, the servants were dismissed,
the tent closed, and in it Holofornes was left alone with Judith.
He was well filled with wine, and lay along upon his bed. Be-
fore the tent was closed, Judith had given orders to her maid, to
stand without, and to wait for her coming forth to early prayers ;
and to secure a safe passage, she had spoken to the same purpose
to Bogoas, the eunuch of Holofornes.
Those who are frank, sincere, open, and unsuspecting, may
ponder here to some advantage, upon the profound dissimulation
of Judith. Unsuspecting and innocent persons are prone to be-
lieve that all others are like themselves ; which is a mistake
—
sometimes a fatal one.
Judith began her enterprise with prayer ; she closed it by
cutting off the head of Holofornes—which as she was about to
execute, she offered another prayer, in her heart, to the Lord
God, to strengthen her in the undertaking. She then approached
the post of the bed and took down from thence the falchion of
Holofornes, which was hanging there. Then taking hold of the
hair of his head, she smote twice upon his neck with all her
might. His head was dissevered, and she took it away from
him. And tumbling down the canopy, or tester, from the bed
post, she took that, with the head, and went forth. And she gave
the head of Holofornes to her maid, who put it into the bag in
which she had brought meat, and without any accident or inter-
ruption, she and her maid reached Bethulia.
The joy of the citizens, and the applauses bestowed upon Judith,
need no description ; for the imagination of every one will paint
them better than pen or pencil.
Among the nations of the East, the loss of the commander in
chief, was the loss of the army.
472 THE TONGUE OP TIME.
But Judith, in the sequel, proved her abihties to be great, by
the arrangements which she desired the army to make of an at-
tack upon the Assyrians, in the morning ; rightly judging, that
if the sentinels saw an army in battle array, that they would tell
their officers, and that the latter would fly with the news to the
tentof Holofornes, and finding him dead, every thing would be
put into confusion. She also told them to hang up the head of
Holofornes upon the highest part of the city walls. All this was
done, and the event justified the shrewd calculations of Judith.
For when Bogoas knocked at the tent of his master, and received
no answer, he ventured to go in, and found that he was dead, and
his body without a head, tumbled on the floor, and that Judith,
whom he supposed that Holofornes had slept with, was gone.
He then gave the alarm, that the slaves had dealt treacherously,
and that one woman of the Hebrews had brought shame upon the
house of king Nebuchadnezzar.
The captains of the Assyrian army were in great distress, and
rent their clothes. The army fled away, their camp was taken,
and the Jews chased the flying columns beyond Damascus, a dis-
tance of sixty or seventy miles. To Judith was given all the
plate, and beds and vessels of Holofornes.
We cannot but be struck with admiration at the daring enter-
prise, the signal skill, and wonderful success, of Judith. Her
prayer, and her whole management evince great powers of mind.
But to a Christian, a prayer to God to smile on deceit, and ta
strengthen a hand uplifted to assassinate, even an enemy, sounds
not a little singular. Still, the stratagems of war, have in all ages
been aided by deception and falsehood. The best men who have
commanded armies, have approved of deceiving an enemy to their
destruction ; as they have rewarded treason, although they must
have in their hearts despised the traitor.
In the whole records of antiquity, we know not where to find a
piece of deception so deeply conceived, so glaringly, so deceitfully
executed, and at the same time carried on under so thick a cloak
of piety and religion. Judith, when she cut off" the head of an
enemy to her country, destroyed a man who had shown her the
greatest respect, protection, favor, and friendship. Nor had he,
as it appears by what she told her countrymen after her return,
THE TONGUE OP TIME. 47^
offered, or at any rate effected, any improper intercourse with her.
If she had any pangs of conscience on the occasion, she probably
consoled herself by the reflection, that by cutting off one man, she
had saved a perishing city of thousands of men, women, and
children, tormented with hunger, dying of thirst.
§ 13. As to prayer, that alone does not sanctify, nor legalize,
nor prove the equity and justice of any thing that is prayed for.
The Mahomedan religion is a religion of prayer, in which they
are more uniform and exact than even the christian ; but that
does not prove the truth of the Moslem creed. And the Roman
Catholic prays for the destruction of heretics, in which they in-
clude all protestants ; but this does not prove that millions and
millions of the human race ought to be hurled from existence by
the hand of heaven, merely because they are not papists. No
protestant would deem that prayer meritorious, which contain-
ed a petition for his own perdition, for which the papist prays in
every prayer. Nor is the success of a measure, when prayed for,
any absolute criterion of its justice, or even of its benefit to the
petitioner. To this point is the following case :
A minister was praying for a child in a sick room with its
mother; and he said, as he was addressing himself to the Deity,
"If thou wilt spare,"—when he was interrupted by her, as she
exclaimed, " It must be his will, I cannot bear i/s." The child
unexpectedly recovered, and proved a very bad son indeed. The
mother, after suffering almost martyrdom by him, had the ago-
nizing horror of seeing him hanged at the age of tiventy-two I
Better had it been to have said, " Thy will be done," if it had
been the divine will to have taken him from his mother in his
infancy.
The strongest passions and affections of women are sometimes
excited, for which themselves nor no one else can render a reason.
Lacon says, that women have stronger passions, and less judg-
ment, than men. It may be so ; but I have strong reasons to
suspect, that as the statement stands, that it may convey errone-
ous ideas. The desire to have children is a strong desire, and
strongest in women. Still, there is no doubt, that in cases of
seduction and illegitimacy, the blame lies at the door of the man,
in ten cases, to one of that of the woman
474 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
As the diamond is polished by rubbing, so woman is prompted
by difficulties. Every woman wishes to be married, and if that
wish sometimes carries her too far, it is still with a prospect in her
view of its achievement. Men teach women to view with compla-
cency, that which they naturally view with horror. We have
said, that every woman wishes to be married ;
yet I am fully con-
vinced, that in a very great majority of cases, it is not from a like
reason that a man wishes to be married.
We have remarked that women were not like eagles ; for these
birds soar highest in calms, sunshine, and fair weather; whilst
woman shows her most exalted, amiable, and noble efforts, around
the bed of sickness, and in the mansion of distress ; in the allevia-
tion of misery, and the healing of broken hearts, alienated minds,
family broils, and domestic discords.
After all that may be said respecting the fondness of women
for getting married, it was the opinion of the celebrated Dr.
South, the divine, that there were ten women who were driven
to matrimony, to one that was led to it. Families usually wish to
see their daughters disposed of; and an expedient match, rather
than a happy one, is most thought of, except by the parties them-
selves.
Dr. Watts said, " Loose the fierce tiger from the deer,''''—but it
is better not to unite them.
In the world's vast variety, we find some females, who are
pleased with being eternally courted, and care little about being
ever married. They seem to have a premonition that courtship
is the happiest state ; and a correct one it is. This puts us in
mind of the remarks of S. Pierre, who held that all contracts pro-
duce harmonies ; which is true. But the execution of a harmoni-
ous contract, sometimes breaks the harmony itself. The manners
of women vary with the clime they inhabit, with the morality
established, and with the fashion of the place. The piety of the
most pious is not always at summer heat by the moral ther-
mometer.
§ 14. It is an ancient observation, which we find on record,
that the air of Baije, a city on the sea coast of Campania, was
most pernicious for modest virgins. This was now brought to
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 475
mind, by an account which we lately noticed in the " Christian
Spectator," respecting the manners, and especially the conver-
sation of the ladies at Naples ; which would put to the blush the
most debauched, and indelicate, and degraded classes of females
in England and America. It is as follows :
" The plai^i speaking of the Neapolitan ladies is truly surprising
;
they call every thing by its right name, without any circumlocu-
tion ; and in the reality of a story, whatever be the character of
the incidents, there is nothing left to be collected by inference
but the facts are broadly and plainly told, with the most circum-
stantial details."*
In connection with Italy and women, we must not omit to
mention a certain non-descript animal, of whose origin we should
like to have some naturalist give an account. He is called a
cscisbeo, which may be Englished, a cavalier-servant. Every
lady has an attendant beau of this kind, who attends her at all
parties and public places, at which she cannot even appear with-
out such a companion. Her being a married woman makes no
difference. He supersedes the husband in such cases, and even
attends his lady to church. He does more ; he enters her apart-
ment at any hour, by day or by night, whenever he pleases, let it
be never so private and secluded. It is hardly possible to credit
all that we are told upon this subject, and yet the source from
which it issues is so respectable that it commands belief. The
Christian Spectator says, that " Even the private chamber is not
closed to him at any hour ;" and that " liberties are allowed him
which the husband would not dream of taking." What these
liberties are we cannot dream of thinking, nor think of dreaming.
The licentiousness of Roman Catholic countries, is truly sur-
prising. " I am afraid to believe all that I hear of the licentious-
ness of Naples, but I see enough to make me think nothing is
impossible."!
A celebrated lord, who was visiting Spain, writing home to his
mother, relates the beauty and elegance of the Spanish ladies, in
* This account appears to have been taken from Dr. James Johnson, who
speaks from his own personal observation. See Christian Spectator for Sep^
tember, 1836, p. 42.
t Dr. James Johnson, as quoted by the Christian Spectator.
476 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
high and exalted terms ; and tells how he made a certain licen-
tious request to one of them. Her answer was, " wait till I am
married and you will make me too happy."
But in Papistical countries, the words plenary indulgence,
are labelled on their churches. The Neapolitan ladies would
think rather meanly of our free country, called the land of lib-
erty, when they should find themselves choked in their freedom
of speech, and frowned out of all sorts of society, good, and bad,
and indifferent, for their vulgarity of expression.
§ 15. Were all the world lighted with white light, without any
4'ays of red, yellow, or purple, the faces of the fair, would be all
of one colour, all pale, and equally pale. The rosy red of beau-
ty, the kindling flush of love, the dancing pink of delicacy, the
placid genial flow of content, and the retiring blush of modesty,
<jould not be distinguished apart. The red cheek reflects no rays
of light, with which the sun enlightens the apartment, except
those of rose, carnation, pink and peach-bloom. The shades
and shadows of red, and of white ; of the lily of the lake and
the lily of the field, commingled.
The green leaf, and the yellow orange, are seen in their true
colours, only by their capabilities of refracting a green, or an
orange colour from the rays of the sun ; and so of the violet's
blue, of buff, of lilac, of purple and scarlet and indigo. Yes,
said Hortense, that is the Newtonian theory, to be sure, but Ara-
bella looks red-cheeked by lamp-light, and by moon-light, and
by star-light, and by snow-light, as well as by sun-light. Have
all these kinds of light, and every ray of them, the seven prismat-
ic colours 1 My ideas upon the subject, said she, may be simple,
but they are short. It appears to me, she continued, tjiat when
Sir Isaac Newton made light alone to constitute the colour, that
he did not fully consider, that a green leaf may become a red
•lenf, as does that of the maple ; or of a cinnamon hue, as does
that of the oak. That a rose is actually red of itself, she inferred
from its looking red when the sun did not shine, as by moon-light
in the night ; and also by the light of the taper, when neither sun,
nor moon, nor stars, afforded it any light. Seeing, appeared to
her, to be one kind of feeling. The rays of the red roge^ were of
THE TONGUE OF TIME, 477
a red colour, and met the rays of vision emanating from the eye,
and when these different sorts of rays met, the dehcate optic
nerves, felt a red colour touching- them. Different colours, there-
fore, gave to the eye a different feeling. Black is distinguished
from white, at once, because it feels differently to the nerves of
the eye, whicli are called the optic nerves.
The delicacy of the nerves of the fingers, has been such in
some diseases, and in some blind persons, that they could readily
distinguish and describe colours by the touch. Here feeling and
seeing became identified. Roses, dahlias, green fields, and calm
seas, gave to the eye a feeling that was pleasant and agreeable.
A black cloud, an ocean tossed with a tempest, a full glare of sun-
light, or even the penetrating scarlet of eye-bright, (euphrasia,)
when in bloom, are all somewhat disagreeable, and distressing to
the sight. Hortense concluded by saying, that those who wielded
the theory of Newton, and who had powers of their own to en-
force his gigantic abilities, would probably turn her's or any
other girl's red and white to a leaden complexion, and silence
her attempts at philosophizing. But we remarked to her, that
silencing was not always confuting, and that her hypothesis ap-
peared as probable as any one's else.
§ 18. The most beautiful woman of all antiquity, was Mari-
amne. In saying this, we do not forget Sarah, the wife of Abra-
ham, nor Bathsheba, nor Abishag, nor queen Esther, nor Cleopa-
tra, queen of Egypt. Mariamne was the wife of the first of the
Herods, and who is called Herod the Great. And the beauty of
queen Mariamne, is proved by Cleopatra's having gone to Jerusa-
lem, and there having offered Herod her own seduction, which
that monarch refused ; although she was the mother of Julius
Caesar's son, and the enslaver and idol of Mark Antony ; and
that Herod's rejection of the advances of Cleopatra, was not
owing to his matrimonial fidelity, is abundantly proved. He was
a curious barbarian, however ; for once, on being summoned be-
fore Mark Antony, he was suspicious that he should be put to
death. He therefore, left the care of Mariamne with his sister's
husband, Joseph, with strict orders that if he was put to death by
Antony, that he should put Mariamne to death, so that she might
41
478, THE TONGUE OF TIME.
be with him after death ! The Jews, seem, therefore, to have
held the opinion, that in another world, the spirits or souls of
the deceased, should recognize each other, and still be man and
wife. But Herod returned safe, and having discovered from Ma-
riamne, that Joseph had revealed the secret to her, he caused him
to be put to death without even suffering him to come^ into his
presence. Many years afterwards, Herod went to Cyprus, to
meet Augustus Caesar, after that emperor had defeated Mark An-
tony ; and as Herod had been a great friend to Antony, he feared
that Augustus would resent it, and take a fatal. revenge, by putting
him to death. He for the same reason which had before influ-
enced him, commanded Sohemus, whom he left in the care of
his household, to put Mariamne to death in case that Augustus
destroyed him. Sohemus was equally imprudent as Joseph had
been, and Mariamne having discovered the orders given him by
her husband, treated Herod very coolly on his return, and even
refused his embraces. Herod, unable to find out the cause, and
Mariamne refusing to tell it to him, he had one of her eunuchs
put to the torture, who had been much about her in his absence.
The eunuch confessed that he saw a great change in the queen
after something that Sohemus had told her ; upon which Herod
inferred that he had made his secret orders to destroy her, in case
of his own death, known to her ; and he ordered Sohemus to be
slain.
§ 17. Women are fairies within their ring, but out of it nothing
at all. In achieving stupendous works, they are the file com-
pared with the axe, the scissors compared with the hammer.
They cannot raise the stone, and erect the pyramid, but still they
can give a polish peculiar and delightful. A woman never shines
in talking politics, and appears to most advantage when she does
not say one single word upon the subject. And as to her religion,
she always appears most elevated in action, and not in discussion.
The precipitate curiosity of mother Eve, may stand as an exam-
ple of feminine rehgious disquisition.
Capt. Marryatt says that it is of no use to have the best of an
argument when opposed to women. A supposition, a circum-
stance, a prejudice, or a custom, is just as weighty in the nursery,
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 479
or at a tea-party, as is proof positive before the Supreme Court.
There is no such thing as disproving a supposition. When all
kinds of probabilities, little and great, strong and weak, are
reared up as evidence, and arrayed as proof, the case is decided
by assumption.
Two or three witnesses may establish a fact, but a thousand
and one, cannot abolish a prejudice. When a woman's opinion
is once made up, by authority never so flimsy, it is impossible to
change it by all the arguments and demonstrations in the world.
Hence, under the old dispensation, we read of her thus,—" If
she go as thou wouldest not have her, cut her off from thy flesh,
and give her a bill of divorce, and let her go." The position
here displayed, is, that from a single act of waywardness in a
woman, there was no hope ; and that the sooner a man was rid
of her, the better for him. But as is hsr perverseness, so is her
affection, her confidence, her implicit reliance. She is smitten
down by a single mental blow, by a single act of perfidy, and
never rises again. She loses all, if her one ship be wrecked,
because her all was on board of one vessel. Still, the French
maxiin of contrariety here comes into play again ; for if a severe
stro^^^ do not kill her quite, and if she recovers from it, she may
live forever. Although a woman has less of force, she has more
of fortitude than man.
§ 18. Where ignominy is incurred, and character lost, and
the forfeiture of life is in danger, she will attend her friend, her
husband, her brother, to the court, to the prison, and even to the
gallows ; and this when his male relations will all desert him.
We have an instance of this fortitude and aff'ection in a remarka-
ble degree, in the case of Rizpah, the concubine of Saul. When
David had hung her two sons by Saul, together with the five sons
of his wife Michal, Saul's daughter, Rizpah took sackcloth and
spread it on a rock, and watched their bodies ; nor suffered the
, beasts of the field by night, nor the birds of the air by day, to
rest on or molest them. And this dismal occupation she perse-
vered in, from harvest time until water dropped on them out of
heaven. (II. Samuel, xxi. 10.) That is, from harvest time until
the autumnal rains.
480 THE TONGUE OF TIME.
Jealousy, is a prevalent passion in the sex. A man visiting a
house in which the family occupants are a woman of seventy,
and a young lady of twenty, will be able to discern this all perva-
ding feature ; and of which he would not have dared to surmise
the existence, had he not seen it.
§ 21. In the management of business, women are sometimes
found to be misers, but never men. When acting miserly, they
are most apt to show it by saving their salt, and losing their
bacon. But on the other hand, women who have money, are apt
to make a free use of it, so long as it lasts—to expend it on ob-
jects, not of primary importance, without having the forecast to
save it for future emergencies of indispensable necessity.
An accurate lawyer, and intimate friend of the present writer,
observed that it was best for women to have their property left in
lands ; for that they always had a repugnance to writing their
names, and conveying away their inheritance. This view of the
matter is correct, and those who have an interest in the manage-
ment of female finances, ought to consider it well. If any im-
provement can be made upon this suggestion, it appears to be that
of placing their funds in bank, or some other stock, where the
interest can be received at stated periods, and punctually paid.
A woman who has an idea that any merchant, mechanic, artist,
or retailer, owes her husband, will show no mercy in calling for
every thing in their line of business. She will consume her hus-
band for gridirons at a blacksmith's, and have four coats of paper
hangings, one on the top of another, on the walls of the same
room, and yet not be comfortable. As said an early settler, and
wealthy farmer, in our own America. He told his wife at their
begmniug of life, that he wanted to be rich. She replied that
she wanted only enough to be comfortable. He got rich, but
riches are nothing to a woman, unless in the expenditure. He
got rich ; but she, alas, if her own account is to be taken for an
affidavit, never got comfortable.
Josephus says of women, that they were prohibited by the laws
of Moses, from being witnesses in courts, on account of the for-
wardness and boldness of their sex.
THE TONGUE OF TIME. 481
But after all, a censure or a satire upon the sex, belong rather
to a Herod, or a Swift, than to a Solomon, or an Addison.
After casting about for a conclusion, from some celebrated
author, we concluded to conclude in our own words, which
convey our own sentiments.
Life, what art thou ? thy sunny days,
Thy calms, thy cheers, thy Christian rays,
Thy spice, thy balm, thy sweets, alone
, By woman can be truly shown.
Away, the censures of thy sex,
Let sickness come, let false friends vex,
Thy cheerful mien, thy angel smiles,
Deprive the demon of his wiles ;
The surest solace man can know,
The mother, sister, wife, bestow.
4V
INDEX.
Page.
A.
Adams, President 375
Address, preliminary 9
Adicipore, or Adipocere, 319
Alexander of Russia, 278
Alien on giunl remains, 85
Alexander Alexander, 374
Almanac making, 272
Alluvial laws, 182
Ambition, 343
Amalgamation, 32
America, why colder than the East, 158
Anahuac, 37
Anatomy, comparative 91
Anaxagoras, 269
Animal food, 28, 353
Animal magnetism, 193
Animal origin of mountains, 183
Antiquities at Aix, France, 153
in Cattaraugus, 153
in the Cumberlandmountains, 160
of Genesee, 131
of Georgia, 132
of Jefferson county, N. Y. 134
of Kanhawa river, Va. 122
of Kentucky, 171
Mexican, 139, 149
in Miami, 126
on the Oakmulgee 135
of Ohio, 117, 120
of Oreston, Eng. 153
of Ouisconsin, 138
of Pennsylvania, 148
on the Rivanna, 128
on the Scioto, 170
in Tenneesee, 160
of Teotchuacan, 150
Arabians, 27, 35, 145, 177
Ararat, 186
Aristotle, 71, 315
Association of ideas, 163, 374
Atterbury, Bishop 56
Atticus, 363
Atheism, 59, 61, 306, 316
Attraction, 155
Aurora borealis, 158
Page.
B.
Babel builders, 151, 163
Bacon, Francis 80
Bacon, Roger 199
Baker, Rachel 226, 420
Baron Humboldt, ]64, 167
Banks and his horse, 35
Baptism, 342
Bat, the sixth sense of, 228
Bath, cold 360
Bed of shells, ninety miles long, 133
Berkeley, Bishop 62
Bernard, St. 194
Beveridge, Bishop 333
Bible, 258
Bite of a spider, 222
Blood, 396
Bones in rock seventy feet deep, 153
Bramins, 369
Bump, phrenological 216
Buonaparte, 20, 394
Burke, Edmund 31, 33,56
Burman Empire, 308
Burying and burning the dead, 262
Burying arms with the warrior, 264
Butler's Analogy, 268
Byron, Lord 19
C.
Caesar, Julius 196
Campbell, Hon. Mr. of Ohio, 126
Cancer from kissing, 366
Cards, 54
Cases extraordinary of,
Baker. Rachel 226
Cass, Mrs. 229
Hazard, Nancy 219
McEvoy, Miss 231
Rider, Jane C. 223
Cervantes. 36
Change of climate, 361
Chamber horse, 359
Chaos chronology, 189
Charms, 303
Chatham, Lord 377
Chaucer, 15
484 INDEX.
Page.
Chronology, 189
Childers, Dr. of Georgia, 133
Child, imprisoned 205
China, 22, 28, 31
Churchyards, origin of 127
Choking, 391
Cicero, 30
Clergyman's case, 2n5
Climate, 111, 156, 348
Clouds, 188
Cold winds, Virgil on 110
Coins My feet in rock, 152
Comets, 388
Common sense, 310
Confusion of languages, 162
Congress, 377
Congress, speaker of 30
Consumption, 361
Conscience, 376
Corpse revived, 368
Covenant of salt, 139
Countries, 347
Craniology, 193
Creation. 92, 188
Cromwell, 265
Crusades, 23, 161
Crusades Mahometan, 161
Custine, M. beheaded, 379
D.
Dancing, involuntary 221
sayes life, 375
Dark ages, 152, 168
Death, 318
of a beauty, 325
of Julius Caesar, 197
Deity, 313
Deluge. 182
Denon, M. 333
Diet. 361
Divorce, 173
Divination, 267
Doctors, 64
Donne. Dr. 57
Dreams, 287, 388
Dress. 354
Drinks, 358
Drowned persons, 368
Druids, 334
E.
Earthquake, effects on the mind, 373
Earthen ware, ancient 136
Eclipses, 268
Effects of a gale, 143
Egyptian magic, 217
English national character, 23
Enthusiasm, 277
Epitaph on Joshua Barnes, 372
Epictetus,
Epicureans,
Essenes,
Europa,
Europe, its name,
Evans, Mr.
Evil, its uses,
Page,
53
313
175
165
165
116
76
F.
352, 358,
99
357
303
363
198
198
258
333
137
Falling stones.
Famine,
Fascination of serpents,
Fasting,
Fate,
Fates,
Faust's Bibles,
Fever Flowers,
First settlers in America,
Five hundred deaths from one man, 351
Flood of Noah, 186
Foot of bird, eighteen inches long, 90
Fortifications, 125
Fossil remains, 83,86
Friendship, 72
French Revolution, 69
Future stale, 371
G.
Galen, 359
Gales ofl685, and 1815, 144
Gastric juice. 393
Genius, 347,377
Georgia, antiquities of 132
Geology, 116 130, 152, 153
Germany,
'
329
fossil head dug up in 84
Giants, 41,83,119
Glenn ie, on antiquities. 150
Glover, Rev. Mr. 231
Goethe. 31
Gov. Pownal, 116, 181
Green Christmas, 347
Guardian Angels, 58
Gulf Stream, 142
H .
Hamilton, Gen. 252
Hannibal, 168
Harvey, Dr. 53
Hazard, JVancy 219
Health, 318
Heaps of ashes, 136
Heal and cold, 110, 156
Heathen atheist, 306
Henry's account of the Indians, 245
Herbert, Lord 265
Herculaneum, 154, 155
Herod, 59
Hesiad, on chaos, 189
INDEX. 485
Hippocrates, 289
Holy Land, 45
Hooker, 268
Horsley, 268
Howling of dogs, 364
Humboldt, Baron 164, 166
Hume, Mr. 42
Hunting laws, Indian 176
I.
Ice, mountains of 113
Idolatry, 191
Imagination, 372, 380
Imaginary diseases. 253, 254
Indians, divorce of 173
Indian doctor. 245
method of memory. ]76
magical practices. 243, 246
morality. 172
of Missouri, 172
physiognomy, 173
polygamy, 173
remedies, 73
and his snake, 273
Inguadon, 84
Insanity, 363
Instinct, 371, 389
Instruction, 68
Italy, 329
J.
Jerusalem, 45
Job, 319
Josephus, 336, 337
Johnson, Samuel 68, 331
Jouers, or jugglers, 245
Judges of courts, 33,34
Judgment, 374, 377
Jumsheed Jum, 151
K.
Kanhawa, antiquities of
Kempis, Thomas a'
Koran,
L.
Languages,
Laughing to cure fever,
Le Blond,
Legerdemain,
Life,
Linnaeus,
Locke, Mr.
Longevity,
Lost ten tribes.
Lot's wife,
Love,
Luthei,
Luz,
123
331
49,50
141, 145
340
112
250
318
141
192, 193
29, 346
140, 146, 173
336
72, 381, 405
47
263
96,
PAGE.
M.
Madison, Bishop 109
Magic. Egyptian 217
Materialism, 61
M'Evoy, Miss 231
Magnetists, 193
Mahometans, 354
Mahometanism, 27
Man, his nature, 130, 378
where most honored, 347
Martin, Susannah, executed, 210
Marriage, 32
Memory. 371, 372
Metempsychosis,
Mexico,
Mexicans, modern
Milk,
Milton,
Missouri Indians,
Mitla, palace of
Moloch,
Morris, Robert
Moses,
Mosaic work.
Mount Ararat,
Mountains, 111,142,
animal origin of
ofice.
Mounds on Fox River,
Mounds on the Kanhawa,
of the Ohio,
of the Scioto,
of Virginia,
244
149
38
74
18,53
174
166, 167
334
284
21, 335
167
186
183, 185
185
113
128
123
120, 125
170
122, 124
N.
Napoleon,
National characters,
Arabian,
English,
Italian,
Spanish,
New England,
Newton, Sir Isaac
Niagara Falls,
Number of centenarians,
of the Chinese,
of people in the U. S.
O.
Old age,
Olmsted, on the needle.
Opening a dead body,
Opinion of Linnaeus,
Opium,
Origin of man.
20
35
35
23
329
35
356
108, 162, 190
95
29
29
29
Palace of Milla,
Palsy,
P.
357, 378
159
82
141
300
130
167
382
486 INDEX.
Page. Page.
Pantheism, 315 Second-sight, 271
Palmistry, 195 Seeing with the fingers, 231
Partridges poisonous, 353 Serpents, 304
Penn, William 280 Sex of fevers. 351
Petrifactions, 155 Shakspeare, 34,53
Philosophic idolaters. 315 Shower of stones. 100
Philosophy, 268, 376 Sickness, 396
Physiognomy, 216 Shakers, 73
Phrenology, ' 195, 216, 31
1
SilUman, Professor 153
Pigeons poisonous, 354 Sismondi, M. 145
Point of congelation. 110 Smoking, death by 181
Poles, 158 Skeletons, fossil 153
Pompey the great, 196 Skeleton with arrow head in neck, 120
Pompeii, 154 with knife in side, 121
Politics, 339, 345 Sleep, 285, 318, 380
Polygamy, Indian 173 preaching. 223, 411
Popularity, 65 working, 293
Potatoes, 354 Smoking, 179
in France, 178 Socrates, 269
in Austria, 179 Somnambulism, 223, 229, 380
Pownal, Gov. 116, 181 Soul, 319 321,403
Progeny, 356 of infant unborn, 321
Prolonging life. 339 double, 226, 381
Professional longevity, 356 of animals. 321
Puritans, 23,43 Spanish nation, 35
Pyramids, 147 preaching, 42
Spinosa, 316
Q. Spinozim, refutation of |316
Quakers, 43 Spirit of the eye. 236
Quarrel settled by a dream, 196 Spleen, use of 396
Stars, shooting 105, 187
R. Stewart, Dugald 252
Rain, 187 Stimulants, 378
Reading by touch. 231 Stimulus of necessity, 389
Reason, 377 Stomach of Buonaparte, 394
Refutation of atheism and materi- Stones falling. 98
alism. 61 on board a vessel at sea, 106
Remains of giants. 120 stationary in the air, 187
Remedies natural. 324 Style, kinds of 13
superstitious. 257 Stumps oftreesninety feet deep, 118
Religious writers. 330 Sudden death of a beauty. 325
Resemblances, geological, 130 Superstition, 90
Resuscitation, 368 Swallowing a halfpenny. 355
Revenge, 174 Systems of the world, 97
Revolutionary characters, 69,71
Roman dream, 196 T.
Ruins, 166 Tartars, 146
Rush, Dr. 163 Taylor, Bishop 57
Russian campaign. 279 Terminus, a Roman god. 192
Theatres, 344
S. Theological truths, 17
Sabbath, 381 Theory of the deluge, 186
Sacrifices, 335 of optics, 235
. Salt. 139 The Fates, 198
Saul, 360 The stomach. 393, 396
Savages, 73 Tobacco, 178, 179
treatment of, 141 King James on 180
Say, Mr. in a trance. 367 Tohu Bohu, 189
Sea-bed, 184 Tropical plants in polar regie)ns, 155
INDEX. 487
Touch without contact,
U.
PAGE.
228
Universal principles,
Universality of hostility,
of deception.
34, 164, 333
120
240, 302
V.
Vaccination in India,
Vegetable diet.
Ventriloquism,
Victory,
Virgilian lots,
Virgil on northwesters.
Volcanoes,
257
353
397
347
259
110
96
W.
War,
Washington,
69
13,24,69
PAGE.
Washington, death of 364
Weather, 272, 346
Wedding, 444
Wedges, with rock formed over
them, 152
White Indians, 176
Will, 378
Williams, Roger 281
Williamson, Hugh, Dr. 304
Williams' Hist. Vermont, 172
Winds, 110
serving as river banks 143
Wit, 369
Woman, who heard with her eyes, 234
Wometi 405. 406
World, theories of, 26, 97, 116
attracted north, 156
Worship of All Nature, 315
31^77-2
