{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__jahr___manual_of_homeopathic_medicine.pdf","mytitle":"Manual Of Homeopathic Medicine","mylang":"de"}
...
Entered according to the Act of Congreee, in the year 1838, by TAe Nortl'
American Academy of the Hot7W10p41Aic Heflling Art, in the Clerk'E>
Office of die DiStrict Court of the Eutem Dill&riCt of P-:nneymnia.
Digitized by Coogle
-
INTRODUCTION.
A work of this, kind requfres, that eome, explanarory ,obll!lervations, 88 to ita
nature, Ul!e and mode of application should be given. This will be done as fully
IUld as clearly as the limita ofan introduction will admit o£ It is designed as a
medical directory fur the practical HOIDQlO)l8tbist, in which each morbid symptom
has ita appropriate remedy indicated, and each remedy ita own curative in1luence ,
particularized.
The contenta of the work will be found in the materis medica of the hoJDa!Oo
pathic eehool, ofwhich it is an abstract, and the diffilrent effecta of the sevel'lll
remedies arranged, after a scheme approved of, and adopted by HomaiOpRthista
generally.
Each remedy is introduced with a digest' o_f the symptoms, which have been
taken from trisls actUally made on healthy individuals, particularly selecting those,
which were the most remarkable; and also from patienta, who, in a state ofsick-
ness have ascertained their curative effects. There will be round interspersed,
notices ofdiseases cured by these remedies' which in an cases were selected after
the manner of the new eehool, and given in doses, prepared after the ~es of
Hahnemann.
Two hundred remedies are here published, one halfof which have been Mtis-
mctorily tested on healthy individuals; the remainder have not yet been sufficiently
tried; it was however Decll888ry to the completeness ofthe Work as A translation,
that they should appear; a few are merely introduced by name; the symptoms of
. . ',
which will be published among the Transactio118 of the North American Academy
of Homooopathic medicine.
The rem~es are alphabetically arranged, and the nomenclature of the United
States Dispensatory adopted; those planta which are not found there, are for the
most part named after Sprengel and the animals after Cuvier. An accurate
sketch of the parts, both ofplanta and animals as wen as their preparation, may
be seen in the Homooopathic materis medica.
The second part includes all the symptoms and the names of several disease&,
to which the proper remedies are referred; and ita use 88 an Index or IUpertory,
can scarcely ever be dispel18ed with.
Digitized by Coogle
W. AMIJIP""·
Homreopethia in the United States is eomperatively in ita Infimey. That a
science so singular and so new, should be miataken, or misrepreeented, or even
oppoeed, is not to be wondered at. Yet, i~ is highly ereditable to the medical pro-
feesion in this eountry, that hitherto, none of ita members have declared them-
selves as ita opponents. This is the more remarkable. as in every part ofEurope,
where the science has spread 88 rapidly and extensively, 88 it baa here' the most
virulent opposition has appeared. Should the conduct of the American Faculty
arise from a reluctance to attack a system, which they have not investigated, this
work will enable them, in some good degree, to ascertain what that ayetem ia,
which some Physicians at least, affect to despise.
The resulta of the multiplied trials made on healthy individuals, have, through
the zeal of the Homreopathista, already filled more than 15 octavo volumea.
Whether such observations made on the healthy, have any value or not, may
safely be referred to those, best acquainted with the old materia medica. Of the
number of c8ses successfully treated homreopathically, but few comparatively
could meet the public eye, yet sufficient have been published, to show the mik-
ing resembla~ce existing, between the artificial symptoms in the one case. and the
morbid symptoms in the other.
Every cure, and for the most part, the symptoms produced on healthy per-
sons, have been effected', by what are called "the little doses". On this pecu-
liarity, we do not expect to hear one syllable by way of objection, from any man
ofexperimental science, until he have made repeated and accurate investigations.
Suppose electricity had at its first ·disclosure been sneeringly called "the little
tempest", how ridiculous might it have appeared to those persons who were in-
capable ofcomprehending either its minuteness or its might- more especially so,
when they were told , .that by these small flashes from the little tempest the lawa
of the prodigious power of the atmosphere, could be ascertained and mathe-
matically determined; and that a new view of the world would proceed from the
correctness of these calculations. .As it is in the one instance, so will it certainly
be in the other, the principle of the new medical discovery will lead on, to the
entire transformation of both physical and medical science.
The unenviable feelings of the scoffer, and the pitiable position of the man of
• mere indifference, may easily been conceived, should Homreopathia, like electricity
be in accordance with nature and truth ! !
The following work must not be taken as a standard of Homreopathic science,
but rather as the desultory observations, contributed by a number of ditrer~nt
medical men. It is necessary to urge on every one, who would give this manual
a fhlr tnal, strictly and invariably to follow its directions: this advice which is the
Digitized by Coogle
. .:.
- 5-
result of experience, will prevent the recurrence of grou mistakes, into'which
many ofthe German phyeieians have fallen; who after acknowledging the sound-
ne88 of the HomCMpathic method, have ridiculoWJiy a'tempted to add improve-
men\~! of their own, and have published to the world, for new di8ooveriee, what
to the seientiftc Homa!Opathillt had been known for years before. Like emigranw ,1
to the United States, who no sooner touch the eoil than they propoee improve- !
men\8 and conceive thelll8elves capable ofaltering and amending the institutions
of the Republic.
There ill a quarter from whence Hom~Mpathia may IJilffer injury-and by
which iw reputation may be lowered and its Wlefulne88 abridged; I refer to the
futility of combining the practice of the old and the new school together: the
Juste-milieu-~stem, which some physicians have indiscreetly adopted. We
readily allow, that no medical man can be expected to pue imtanter, from one
mode oftreatment to an other: an afthlr ofI!Uch moment should be done gradually,
yet with the resolute purpose, as quickly as poseible, to lay aside the old method
of treatment. No practitioner, and more especially no Novieiate should arrogantly
affirm that what he cannot homa!Opathieally cure, can be cured by no other per-
I!IOn in that way. The history of Homa!Opathia (which is now 46 years old) has
abundantly shown, during the last 25 years, that whoever attempts to unite the
two modes of treatment, must ever remain a very moderate Homc:eopathillt; and
as it regards the advancement and perfection ofthe science, the whole ofthis claes
have contributed nothing that ill worth recording.
I
I sincerely hope, that this charge may not at some future day, oo brought
against American Pbysieiane.
- In order to render the study ofthis manual useful to thoee, who are desirous
oftrying tb~ Homa!Opathic method ofcure, we shall proceed to lay ~own certain
neeeaeary prelimiMrg imtructioftl.
Where the namta ofdi8ea8es occur in this work, they will answer at least one
purpoee, of showing that in special cases, remedies have succeeded, where the
artificial and morbid symptoms have corresponded. The morbid symptoms show
in aft c811e8, what remedies. are proper to be adniinistered. These should be
sought, in an accurate examina~on of the patient, nor should this enquiry be
made hastily, since a complete sketch of the entire symptoms ill an afthlr of no
ordinary difficulty to draw out. As Habnemann baa furnished in bill "Organon"
the moat ample instructions on this I!Ubject, we shall confine ourselves to such
rules only, as are absolutely indispensable.
When visiting the patient, his own description of hie ease must be carefully
Digitized by Coogle
.. ~-
6 -
observed, without any interruption; every symptom should, u nearly u pollible.
be written down in his own words, as an affair oC this nature can not be done &oo
accurately. He should be admonished to communicate u distinctly and UDI"e-
servedly as possible all his sensations. It will avail the HomCilOpathist but little,
should the ordinary vagile expressions be employed, in WJe in the old Patholop.
and which the well infurmed Pathologist will adlllit as being &oo indefinite, u for
instance: Dyspepsia, complaints of the spine, consumption, nervoua, bilioua &c.
as it is well known, that these names may apply, to a h()(llt of different maladies,
which never belonged to the same class. To employ terms to denote the order
ofa disease, will be equally unavailing, as: Hysterics, Hypochondria, Teuers,
Rheumatism, Catarrh &c. very little can be gathered from such generalities, as
to the proper mode oftreatment, while on the other hand, every thing dependa on
a.correct discriminati~n of the species of the disease. In like manner, the worda
Headache, Toothache, pain in the bowt>ls, &c., are far too indeterminate to in-
dicate the proper remedy. Whereas in all ca&ell, the more accurate the symp-
toms, the more easily is a remedy found.
After the patient has given, in all C88etl where it is practicable, his own descrip-
tion, the peculiarities on which he often is silent, muat be ascertained by questions,
1!0 framed, as to obtain the necessary information. In the group of aymptoma
written down , every aberration from the healthy state ofthe several functio08 of
the system, mtist be included , where pathologically connected or not. ~g
questions should carefully avoided, and the interrogation 1!0 shaped, that the pa-
tient muat answer otherwise than yes, or no. •The particular kind of feeling and
the very spot where it is felt, must be ascertained, not allowing such general
dt>Seriptions as "acute pain &c."
Enquiries after the condition under which the several symptoms appeared,
were exasperated, ameliorated. or removed, muat be made. For example, how
individual symptoms, or entire groups are affected at a particular season of the
year, state of the moon, time of the day, change of weather, warmth or cold,
when in the open air or in the house. How the symptome are in. sleeping and
waking, whether they appear before, during, or after sleep, or from a want ofit.
How, from the different positions ofreposing, whether on the back, the belly, the
right or left side; whether the patient lies high or low; how affected when sitting,
rising up; s~nding, beginning to walk, treading heavily, going up steps, reaehiog,
walking hastily; with other movements such as: bending, stooping, stretehing
forward, lifting, reaching up, false stepping &«:· .How affected in a carriage• on
horseback, and other exercises; how impressions change by touching, pressing,
rubbing &c.; when respiring, breathing deep, speaking, aneeang, gaping,
Digitized by Coogle
7 -
.
oougbing, walking agaiDa& the wind; how affected at meals, whether before,
during or after them, if not immediate, in how many hours. Alao what is o!).
aervable when masticating, swallowing, drinking. Also what is sin~ before,
during OJ: ~r stools, urinating, menstruation &e., what are &be effects of men·
tal and sensual irritations, p8811ions, solitude, society &c;., as also che intluenee
of certain aliments such as: pork, gooee, duck, fut, pastry, veal, oysten etc.,
and the usual stimulants: _coffee, tea, tobacco, wine, spirits, beer, &e.
In addition to an accurate description ofthe place, the kind and the condition
of the several symptolll8, their oonne.rion also must be attended to, whethe~ they
appear simultaneously .or in succe88ion; but on this subject the Physician Yersed
in Physiology and Pathology, will require no instruction.
It ill ofconsequence, that the symptoms collected be properly arranged; this
may be· done as they are written down or may lie dispo8ed in the Phyllician's
mind. The most important will be distinguished; but we do not mean those,
which are important in the view of the Pathologist; the~e are frequently very
obscure, indistinct, and difficult to diserirninate, still to him they are of great
significance. They serve to indicate the cltu1 and the genut~, but not the 1pecie1,
and therefore a88ist but little, in the choice ofa suitable remedy; consequently a
large'number of remedies will always be open to hill choice.
Ifthe entire group ofsymptoms (or in other worda: the ~ofthe disease)
is looked over, there will immediately appear many, of which the patient partie·
ulary complained, while others were noticed as of comparatively litde impor·
tance. On a quespon of this sort the Pathologist thinka often differently from the
patient. Those symptoms, which from their intensity are most important to· the
sufferer, are sometimes but of minor consequence to the Pathologist, while, those
which the patient considered oflittle importance, may be differently catimated by
the Pathologist.
A judicious Hom<l!Opathist will pay a due reg'1ird to both these arrangements,
without following either the one, or the other excluaiYely. He will consider thoee
symptoms of the fir.t importance, which are the most evidently characteristic
that is, those which are the mOf!t definite as to place, kind, and especially con.
dit£on. If these several symptoms thua accurately defined, be in a peculiar con·
nexion with others, then will they hold the qhest·relative importance. Again, if
there are other symptoms, ~hich by a -similar process, are eimiJal'ly ciharaererized
then the relatiye importance ol these, muat be decided upon patholotJically, or in
accordance with the feelingB of the patient; but should both these agree, which is
not a rare occurrence, then ill the symptom offirst rare importance. Ifill certain
symptotns, the same condition, or the same connexion appear, or it a peculig'
Digitized by Coogle
- 8
kind of sensation, is felt in many placee, then M1eh a oondition, kind or con·
nexion becomea a symptom of the first couequence, from the fiequeocy ofits
recurrence.
When the symptoms have been clusified according to their relative impor·
tance, the next thing is, to find a remedy, which exhibits preciaely the~
symptoms as to nature and rank. In truth, the correspondence ought to be eo
correct as to force the conviction, that no other remedy can 8118ftr equally welL
The following work will generally, though not always, ll88ist materially in this
afthlr, which must be ueed in the following manner; viz.:
You will begin with thoee symptoms, which are the most deDnite, then turn
to the second part,,or Repertory and look out thoee &ymptoDIB, and over agaiDIA
them, eet down the remedies there indicated; or give a number to each symptom
and affix the remedies to the number. But should you not find a symptom in·
eluding all the peculiarities of place, kind, condition, and connexion; then look
for the remediea connected with each peculiarity, and theee which moet fiequently
recur, are to be eelected. ·
In this manner, one symptom after another is to be sought for, and the rem-
edies indicated, eet against them. It will be found, that ifthe s~ptoma be aeeu-
rately defined, there will be. a fewer number ofremedies indicated, and the re•eree
where the symptoms are vague and indefinite. AB the indefinite symptoms will
be considered at last, thoee remedies which include the most important symptoms,
are to be taken out, and the others diSregarded.
The names ofdl8easee are of very minor importance, lAlli they may .serve to
confirm the choice ofa remedy applicable to them.
In deciding on the remedy moat proper, among the number annexed to each
symptom in the Repertory, those which appear indicated by a JMjority of tlae
.ymptoms, are the remedies sought for.
When the names ofone or more remedies have been found, aecording to the
process recommended, the whole articles in the first part mUlA then be compared
with the group ofsymptoms, keeping in view their relative rank. It will then
be easy to choose the one remedy malA similar to the disease. -
It mulA be borue in.mind, that theee directiooa, are intended ehiefty forth~
who are unaequainted with Homc:eopathis, but may wish to make trial of its effi·
CI!CY; but that these inetruotione, howenr IArictly followed, UD8110eisted with
other qualliicatio1111, can never make a Homc:eopatbie phyaician.-
The true Homc:eopathic physician will refer to this manual in cues only which
demand a prompt decilion, but his general rule is to refer all c-. to the materia
medica itself; it beooiMe therefore tha more Deoell8fY for thOee who oonfine
oigitiz~d by Coogle
- 9-
themselves to this extract, to proceed with the utmost precaution. In exhibiting
the remedies selected, the fi>Dowing rules must be attended to, viz.:
A. Procure the higher potence, as prepared after the directions given in the
Organon. Though diflerent potences are in use, still the aot~ dilUtion (X) is
most usuaL
B. Give from 1 to 3 globules at once. The application of different other pre-
parations requires a more intimate acquaintance with Homceopathia.
C. The influence of any remedy may be neutralized or destroyed in 'various
ways; for example, when large doses of medicine have been taken, either just
before or after receiving it. Spices and other stimulants, either in solids or fluids,
act this way. Should it operate favorably in such cBI!Ie&, it is from mere accident,
and therefore .
very uncertain. There are cases where the remedy and certain
stimulants are not antagonists to each other, and may by the Physician be allowed.
Coffee for instance, is an antidote to very many remedies and may act injuriously,
and.pure chocolate be substituted for it. Still there are cases, when the Hom~
pathist will forbid chocolate and allow, or even prescribe coffee. But on these
questions no general rule can be laid down, except that every article should be
laid' aside, which may interrupt the influence of the remedy.
D. The effects of the remedy are most carefully to be watched. He who is
accustomed to make minute observations, will readily perceive the slightest
alteration.
The following ~es taken from the homooopathic Therapeutics, require the
strictest attention.
1. The more acute or rapid the disease, the sooner can its issue be decided on,
the more tedious or chronic, the longer time must elapse before its result can be
reckoned upon.
The ordinary time in common acute cases is from 6 to 7 hours, in some in-
flammations and neurophlogoses a still shorter period, and in some very acute
cases such as apoplexy, cholera, &c., it does not exceed 10 or 15 minutes.
In chronic diseBI!Iel! the medium time is about 6 or 7 days, but which may be
extended. Violent paroxysms of chronic complaints are considered as acute, the
results arising from acute cases as chronic.
2. In many cases, where no ·effect appears in the first hour in acute com-
plaints, or in 24 hour& in those which are chronic, then the same remedy may be
repeated, but afterwards, the course of time peculiar to the disease must in aU
cases be waited for.
3. Should no alteration whatever appear, it will then be necessary to asoertain
without loss of time, whether the proper remedy have been chosen, or whether
Digitized by Google
- 10-
other inftuences have neutralized its effect, or whe&her the cbaogtw produced by'
the remedy have through negligence been overlooked &c. In such euee, the
magnitude of the d011es cannot affect the question, 88 the repetition of the eame
minute.d011es haa a far more powerful effect, than the so called largd ones. Should
the remedy have been correctly ch011en, it may be well to repeat it once, however
it would be preferable to change the medicine; but .on this point no specific in-
structions can be given. Sometimes there is in patients a repellency to certain
' '
medicines, a dose of no amount can avail. The new practitioner will pursue the
wiser course, by selecting another remedy which is nearly similar to the former,
and then alternate with both.
4. Should an amelioration occur, within the ordinary time, then no farther
steps should be taken while the improvement continues. This important rule
new Homc:eopathists fipd it difficult to follow. The more sudden the improve-
ment, the sooner a relapse may return. Should the 811Dle symptoms recur 88 at
first, before the amendment began, then repeat the 811Dle remedy. But if other
symptoms arise, other remedies must be selected, and a special reference to the
new symptOms must be had in the selection.
5. If the repetition of a remedy be without effect, 88 in the foregoing rule,
then must another remedy be sought for.
6. Ifa part ofthe symptoms disappear after a remedy, and another part after
a second remedy and then the primitive symptoms recur, both remedies may in
such cases be given in turns, until a change of symptoms require a change of
remedy; or until a general improvement takes place, which must quietly be
waited for, as long as possible.
7. Should there be an exacerbation after a medicine, it refers either to symp-
toms already in the system and now aroused, or they are new ones. In the one
case, the denominated homc:eopathic exasperation requires that nothing be done,
as it generally happens, particularly in chronic affections. that it is the forerunner
ofa cure.
8. But where the exacerbation admits of no delayj if other 'riolent pains ac-
company it; then an antidote should be applied, for which the following a~t the
mildest in the crude state: camphors, spir. aeth. nitr.; vinegar, coffee without
milk or sugar; wine in drops &c. The application of the antidotes will be found
annexed to each remedJ.
9. In those cases where a correct choice baa been made, especially where
sudden exasperation occurs, then the repetition of the remedy is preferable to the
antidote, still this treatment, requires considerable practical skill. The same
remedy may likewise be repeated, when ~r ,abating the violent symptoms by
Digitized by Google
11-
the antidote, no improvement appeare, u is frequently the eue. In many in·
stances to alternate the remedy and the antidote is good practice.
10. Should the exacerbation ari8e out of the malady itae~ a circUJDJJtance beet
known to the pracdoal Pathologist, then the remedy may be renewed, buf another
should be ready, provided the aecond d011e be not fuDowed by an amendmenL
it. When new symptoma accompany the exacerbation, then they are either
uniulportant and-the couree of treatment should not be disturbed on that aceount,
or they may be eo important, aa to require a remedy particuJarly adapted for the
new eymptome.
12. If the expected relief appears, it will generally continue in acute com-
plaints a few days, and in chronic cues (even a&r a solitary d011e) may hold on
for 6, 8, or even 10, 12 weeks, and may on no accOunt be interru.,:. either with
the 88108 nimedy or a fresh one; afterwarda should the disease appear 11 fresh.
then accurately dietinguish which eymptoma are become woree. Should precisely
the 8810e appear, u before the remedy wu given, then it may be repeated. The
HOID<IIOpUhiet often gives an intervenilig medicine, by which the system is dis-
poeed to receive the former remedy with greater effect, which we cannot here
fully explain. But should.the aymptomll not euctly agree, the remedy must by'
no me&JUI be reaewed, but rather select anew one, such as the new eyDJptoma
evidently require.
In this way, without an intimate acquaintance with Homceopethia, many
cures may be made, but the Physician may not a.ociate hie former habits of.pro-
ceeding, for eDmple:
a. The eDmination of the patient must not be made superficially, nor may he
theorize on the cue.
b. He must not be guided by names of diseaaee, or antiquated .medical
theories.
c. Remedies muat not be chosen for sudden and superficial effect, u is prac-
tized mthe old eohool.
d. Minute doeee must not be regarded u too insignificant to require a rigid
·discrimination in the choice; which may be repeated with a similar indifference
or changed one tbr the other, until finally the right one may be hit upon.
e. Homceopailiic remedies must not be given when the entire eyste~ is lml'-
eharged with allalepathic medicines, or the air ofthe room aft'eeted by tbe odour
of drug8 &e., or the patient himself furnished with medicinal, aromatic or other
operative material&
£ He muat not regard the above recited ru1ee and illatructiona,· aiJ the fanciful
and valuelees seheme eta eet ofblind, ecmeeked medical panizana, blat the resuk
Digitized by Coogle
.- 12-
ofa long and mature experience, 8U811ained by a great number o( llkilllul, ~·
uous obeerving Physician& ·
Should he aegleet theee preeautiona. he will perform oo eure but by mere acci-
dent, and no benefit ean ever be expeeted from him•
.Every honest enquirer, who from the pureet moti-vee, wiahee to 88lilt in ad·
vancing the ~t interests ofhis fellow· mortals (men o( other aims and eft'orts we
·have no wish to cortciliB&e) will, by a .strict adherence to theee instructions, I!(IOD
be convinced, that the whole homOIOpBthic edidce reets on troth: and should he
wisli fully to grasp the whole science, we will submit to him, what we eoneeive
to be, the necessary prerequisite&.
To study HomQlOpathia with e«eet, 11. man must know the German laDguage.
We are inen:ed to pity that man, who co~den this as too difficnk an unde!'*
taking. In Germany every respectable man finds it necell88J'Y, if he would main-
tain his station in society, to learn at least one language besides his own; and if
he aim at a profession, he must add the ancient classics aJao. On all hands the
knowled~e ofthe German is a neeeesary branch ofa polite education, and 88 it is
8poken by millions in the Union, it is further neee.ary as a medium ofsocial and
mercantile interooul'le. But should we even admit what some ahallow Politicians
are willing to believe, that this_
language will become extinct (quod Dena avertat)
in. this country, still not a single science could accurately and radieaDy be treated
without it. In Europe it holds the undisputed preeminent'e 88 the language of
science and in future·times the knowledge ofGerman will distinguish the literary
man from the'scientific mt>Chanie. Whoever presumes to deny this (as every new
truth, ~ for a while repelled in this way) will certainly not deny, that to keep
pace with the progress of m~eal science, the knowledge of the German language
is indispensable.
Translations have their use; still they are but indift'erent substitutes fOr the
language itself, and particularly 80 with the German. No language preeenta 80
many difficulties to the translator, or is liable to 80 many inaccuracies u the
·German.
It is our design gradaally to furnish translations of every article neeeiiiiiU')' for
the homreopathie Physician, and by this effort we furnish the meana of an ele-
mentary aequaintallee, and we hope to see a good use made ofit, namely in r.til.
itating the st.-;dy of the :German, by a comparison of the tran81ation with the
original, as there is ne methed ofob&aining a language 80 rapidly as by that mode.
He who is unacquainted with the German and has DO inclination to learn
it, .but is satisfied with reading tranalaQ()ns, may cerefully study the Organon,
pd other works, which we intend to publish. But be who reads German, we·
Digitized by Coogle
- 13 -·
recommend the materia medica in German; all furtker inetraet.iona he may obtain
by addressing himaelf to the Academy.
HomalOpathie Physicians understand the use of this book. They are of the
same opinion with the author, that "they who ~dertake the practice of medi· -
cine chiefly by the aid of extracts and repertories, will always continue mere
novices' will never accomplish what belongs to skill, rounded on science ll.lld car-
ried out practically, with diligence and care".
The abuse of this work is no prDQf, that it is, unnecessary. It is ofgreat value
to the Homceopatbic student, as it affords him the meana of knowing the principal
symptoms of the remedies, and is also serviceable to the practitioner, 88 it usistR
him to sel!let the proper remedies with greater facility.
All Homceopathists are indebted to the author for the extraordinary pains he
h88 taken in this performance. The only objections we have are the foUowing:
1. The pathological names are not in accordance with one system of patho-
logy, but are derived from different systems, frequently at variance with each
other. In the present state of the science, it could hardly be otherwise. A glos-
sary of these words ought to have been-carefully made, a defect which we intend
to remedy in our next edition.
2. The artificial symptoms produced on the healthy by medicines, are inter-
mixed with those which have been removed by the medicine. These last should
have been distinguished by some mark. _They should always be considered to-
tally distinct the one from the other. This indiscriminate mixture, if it were
allowed to remain, woUld operate against the progress ofmedical science. It was
impossible to avoid this defect in our translation, as Jahr availed himself of the
original contributions of many very respectable Phys~cians. We hope however
that Jahr himselfwill, for the sak~ of the science, undertake the task of revising
his work. ·As far as we can, it will be done in the following edition.
3. The characteristics of the several remedies are nol always sufficiently defi-
nite. We have made J>ut few alterations, 88 we are engaged at the Academy, in
some preparatory works, in which the principal character ofeach remedy will be
more distinctly marked, than hM hitherto been done.
4. The alphabetical arrangement in the Repertory, we never approved of,
from the difficulty we foWJd in using it. So long as different terms may be choeen
for the alphabetical order, so long will it be attended with perplexity. We shall
weigh the matter well, ascertain the opinion of the other Homceopathists, before
we decide on such an arrangement in our next edition. At least, ifwe retaiq the
2
Digitized by Coogle
-14-
alphabetical order, we shall add a systematic arrangement-or if we eystematize
the words we shall add an alphabetical list.
Whoever compares the American with the German edition, will discover
many alterations, which we consider as ,improvements, which have partly been
made from the materia medica, and partly from our own t>xperience.
The important medicines, which Heine has contributed, we could not allow
ourselves to keep back, such as: Actrea, Aquilegia, AJkekengi, ·Chenopodium,
Chiococca, NigeUa, and for the same reason we have added: Aloe, Barytte mu·
na., Berbem., Brucea, Ferri oxydum magneticum &ro.
The variouS observations on remedies, which have appeared in the latest pub-
lications, are included. Only two short articles, of little consequence' have ~n
omitted. We were inclined to make farther additions, from the mass of experi-
ments st our command; but the translation is sufficiently increased, and as this
edition is primarily designed for Americian Physicians, who may wish to gain a
superficial acquaintance with Homooopathia, we conceived that enough was already
affordt>d. Should the favorable reception of Homooopathia be answerable to our
anticipation, we may make further additions as the size of the volume may admit o£
In reference to the execution of this translation, we deprecate the severity o(
criticism, from the fact, that a work abounding with terms distinguished by the
nicest shades of meaning, is a task of'no common difficulty. We have broken up
untrodden ground, we had greater difficulties to surmount, than any scientific
work presents. Native Americans, English and Germans, have combined their
energies to,make this beginning. It will be no difficult task to discover d;fecta-
it may be easy to correct them, and we believe, it will now be easier to translate
the materia medica itsel£ In this first effort it has been our care, to be as faithful
and correct as possible. •.
· Every improvement which may be suggested, will most thankfully be received
and acknowledged, and no pains or care will be wan~ing in the 8zrangement and
execution which the work will admit o£
Finally it will be borne in mind, t~at the translators and editors of this entire
work have made a free will offering of their service.. - The printer likewise and
booksellers have given up their profits and appropriated them to the support ofa
benevolent medical institution.
Immediately this work is finished, we shall dispatch in single parts, the trans-
lation of the materia medica, each remedy will be enlarged with many experi-
ments, and on a plan adapted to study and use.
AUentoum, Jan. 18, 1836.
CONSTANTINE HERING.
Digitized by Coogle
Index of the remedies contained m this manual.
~ The namea or the aeveral remediee referred to in thia book , will be roua4 ia the lftt eolutart. -
In the aecond are ay1tematio nanu11 at full lensth, and ia the third are a few ....,, wlaicb are in
uae ia German medical worke ani artlxed to imported preparation•.
1. Acetum.
2. Aconitum. Aoonittim napeUus.
3. Actrea. Acuea spicata.
4. Aethusa. Aethusa Cynapium.
5. ~us. Vitex agnus. Agnus castus.
6. coho!.
7. Alkekengi.
8. Aloe.
Physalis Alkekengi.
9. Alumina. Aluminum oxydatum. Argilla.
10. Amanita. Amanita muscaria. Pers. Agaricus muscarius.
11. Ambra. Ambra grisea.
12. Ammonire carbonas. Ammonium carbonicwn.
13. Ammonire murias. Ammonium muriaticum..
14. Anacardium. Anacardium orientale.
15. Angustura. Galipea officinalis.
Antimonium crudum.
16. Antimonii sulphuret.
17. Antimonii & potassle Tartarus emeticus.
tartras.
18. Aquilegia. Aquilegia vulgaris.
19. Argentum.
Arnica ~ontana.
Argentum foliatum.
20. Arnica.
21. Arseniosum acidum. Arseni,cum.
22. Artemisia santonica. Cina.
23. Arum. Arum maculatum.
24. Asarum. Asarum europreum.
25. Assa faltida. Ferula assa f<lltida.
26. Aurum.· Aurum foliatum.
27. Badiaga.
28. Baryue carbonaS. IJaryta carbonic&.
29. Barytre murias.
Atropa BeUadonna.
Baryta muriatica.
30. Belladonna.
31. Berberis. Berberis vulgaris.
32. Bismuthi subnitras. Bismuthum.
33. Bovista. Lycoperdon bovista.
34. Bromum.
35. Brucea. Brucea antidysenterica.
36. Bryonia. Bryonia alba. ·
37. Caladium. Caladium seguinwn.
38. Calcis carbonas. Calcarea carbonica.
39. Calcis phosphas.
Hepar sulphuris.
40. Calcis sulphuretum.
41. Camphora.
42. Cannabis. Cannabis sativa.
4.1. Cantharis. Meloe vesicatorius; Lytta
vet~icatoria.
44. Cap8icum.
45. Carbo animalis. ·
Capsicum annuum.
46. Carbo vegetabilis. Oarbo ligni fagi.·
47. Cascarilla. Croton cascarilla.
Digitized by Coogle
- 16 -
48. Castoreum.
49. Caustieum. Tinetura aerie sine kali.
00. Chani.omilla. Matricaria ehamomilla.
51. Chelidonium. Chelidonium majus.
52. Chenopodium. Chenopodium olidum.
Cainca.
53. Chiocoeea. Chioeoeca raeemosa.
54. Cieuta. Cicuta viroea.
55. Cinchona. China.
56.-Ciimamomum.
57. Citricum (leidum.
58. Clematis. Clematis erecta.
39. Coceinella. Coecin. septempunctata.
60. Coeculus. Coeeulus subetosus. Menispermum coeeulull.
61. Cotfea. Cotfea arabica cruda.
62. Coffea tosta.
63. Colchicum. Colchicum autumnale.
fJ4. Coloeynthis.
65. Conium.
Cueumis col~this.
Conium mac tum.
66. Copaiba.
Isis nobilis.
Balsamum eopsive.
67. CoraJlin. Corallia rubra.
fl8. Crocus. Crocus sativus.
69. Cuprum. Cuprum meta)Jicum.
70. Curcas. Jatroph!l ourcas. Jatropha.
71. Cyclamen. Cyclamen europeum.
72. Dictamnus. Dictamnus albus.
73. Digitalis.
74. Drosera.
Digitalis purpurea.
Drosera rotundifolia.
75. Dulcamara. Solanum dulcamara.
_
1'1. :·-t ~·..t"-~ 76. Epeira. · Epeira diadema. Diadema. lf. .' :~ ~.._u~v
77. Euphorbium.
Euphrasia officinalis.
78. Euphrasia.
79. Evonymus. Evonymus europeus.
80. Ferrum. Ferrum metallicum.
81. Ferri oxydum magn
tieum.
Lapis magneticus.
8'2. Filix mas.
83. Graphites.
84. Gratiola. Gratiola officinalis.
85. Guajaeum. Guajaeum offieinale.
86. Helleborua. Helleborns niger.
87. Hydrargyrum. Hydrargyrum metallicum. Mercflrius vivus.
88. Hydra~gyri chloridum Mereurius sublimatu!l.
corros1vum.
89. Hydrargyri sulphure- Cinnabaris.
tum rubrum.
90. Hy~yamus. Hyoscyamus niger.
91. Jala~ Convolvulus Jalappa.
92. Jam . Eugenia Jambos. Eugenia.
93. Ifikatii faba. Ifunatia amara.
94. I ieium. I ·cium anisatum. Anisum stellatum.
95. Indigo.
96. Jodinum.
97. Ipecacuanha.
98.Kalmia. Kalmia latifolia.
99. Krameria. Krameria triandra. Ratanhia.
Dig111zed by Coogle
- 17 -
100. Kreosotum.
101. Lachesis. Trigonoee.Phalus Lachesis.
102. Lactuca. Lactuca Vlro&a.
103. Lamium. Lamium album.
104. Lauroeerasus. Prunus lauroeerasus.
105. Ledum. Ledu~alustre.
106. Lycopodium. Lyco ·um clavatlllJl.
107. Magnesie carbonas. Magnesia carboniat.
108. Magnesie murias. Magnesia muriatica.
109. Magnesie sulphas. Magnesia sulphuriC&.
110. Manganesii oxydum. Mangiwum. '
111. Marum verum. Teucrium marum verum. Teucrium.
112. Menyanthes. Menyanthes trifoliata.
113. Mephitis. Mephitis putorius.
114. Mezereum. Da~e mezereum.
115. Millefolium. Ac · ea millefolium.
116. Moschus. Moschus moschiferus.
117. Muriaticum acidum.
118. Myristica. Nux muschata.
119. Niccolum.
120. Nigella.
121. Nitri acidum.
Nigella sativa.
122. ~iritus retherisnitrici.
123. ux vomica. Strychnos nux vomica.
124. Oleander. Nerium Oleander.
125. Oleum animale rether.
126. Oniscus asellus.
127. Opium.
128. Preonia. Preonia officinalis.
129. Paris.
130. Petroleum.
Paris quadrifolia.
131. Petroselinum. Atum !ktroselinum.
132: Ph~llandrium. P ellan rium aquaticum.
133. Phosphorus.
134. Pho8phori acidum.
135. Platina. ·
136. Plumbum. Plumbum aceticum.
137. Potassre carbonas. Kali earbonicum.
138. Potassre nitras. Nitrum.
139. Potassre Jodidum. K.ali hydriodicum.
140. Prunus spinosa.
141. Psorinum.
142. Pulsatilla. Pulsatilla pratensis.
•
143. Ranunculus bulbosus.
144. Ranuncul. sceleratus.
145. Rheum.
Rhododend. chrysay.
146. Rhododendron.
147. Rhus vernix. Vernix.
148. Ruta. Ruta graveolens.
149. Sabadilla. Veratrum Sabadilla.
150. Sabina. Juniburus Sabine.
151. Sambucus. Sam ucus nigra.
152. Sambuci cortex..
153. Sapo.
154. Sassaparilla. Smilax Sassaparilla.
Digitized by Coogle
155. Scilla.
156. Seeale comutum.
157. Selenium.
158. Senega.
159. Senna.
160. Sepia.
161. Sericum.
162. Silica.
163. Sodre Boras.
164. Sodre earbonas.
165. Sodre nitrae.
166. Sodre sulphas.
167. Sodii chloretwn.
168. Solanum mammosum.
169. Solanum nigrum.
170. Spigelia.
171. Spongia tost8.
172. Stannum.
173. Staphi.sapia.
174. Stramomum.
175. Strontiqme carbonas.
176. Succinum.
177. Sulphur.
178. Sulphuricum acidum.
179. Tabacum.
180. Tanacetum.
181. Taraxacum.
182. Tartarieum acidum.
183. Thea.
184. Therebinthinre oleum.
185. Theridion.
186. Tiglii oleum.
187. To~o.
188. ToXIcodendron.
189. Thuya.
190. Urea.
191. Uva ursi.
192. Valeriana.
193. Veratrum.
194. Verbascum.
195. Vinca.
196. Vinum.
197. Viola odorata.
198. Viola tricolor.
199. Zineum.
200. Zingiber.
- 18-
Scilla maritima.
Polygala Senega.
Spongia marina tosta.
Datura stramonium.
Nieotiana tabaeum.
Tanaeetum Vulgare.
Leontodon taraxacum.
Thea CIB88J'ea.
Theridion currasavicum.
Croton tiglium.
Baryosma tongo.
Rhus toxieodendro&.
Thuya occidentalia.
Arbutus uva ursi.
Valeriana ofticinali&
Veratrum album.
Verbascum Thapeus.
Vinca minor.
J....
Silicea.
Borax. Natr. boracicum.
Natrum carbonicum.
Natrum nitricum.
Natrum sulphuricum.
Natrum muriaticum.
Strontiona carboniea.
Croton.
o,gitized by Coogle
..
1. Acetum.
ViM,..r. - Oe..;,.. Euif.
Andidote for: sulphuretum calcis; aconitum, asarum, cotrea, euphorbium,
stramonium, tabacun}, tongo; sepia.
It increases the symptoms of hyd!Ugyrum, belladonna and lachesis.
'-·· NB. Bemarkl oa itt u1e ia diHalel will app111t' in the tt&llllcfioaa of tho Ae&demy.
2. Aconitum.
Duration ofits effect: 6- 48 hours.
Af!.lidotu: acetum, vinum, paris1
Used as antidote for : chamomilla, coffea, nux vomica, petroleum, I!E'pia,
sulphur, veratrum. ·
It an81ilers wt;ll after: arnica (alternating), sulphur (limiting).
.Jt may lfUCcesifully precede the following, viz.: arnica (in inflammations caused
by contusion), arsenicum (in colies), belladonna (in inflammation of the brain),
ipecacuanha (in gastric complaints after in.ftainmation ofthe chest), spongin (in
croup), sulphur (in hepatitis, hremorrhoidal diseases, chronic inflammations).
Predominant effects: Stinging pain With a sensation ofsoreness, especially in
the internal organs.- Pains as from a bruise. - Intolerably psin.ful attacks. -
External and internal dry heat of the affected parts.- Congestions towards differ-
ent organs. - Acute i1lflammations ofinternal organs.- Acute rheutTUJtic i1lflam-
mations. - The slightest touch or movement very sensibly qffects the tJUjfermg parts.
- Thirst, and redneM of the face, during the complaints. - Exacerbation in the
evening and morning; diminution in the open air. - Different complaints, in con-
sequence offright and f!exation, or catching cold, especially during menstruation.
..._ Gastric and bilious complaints.
Genel'!ll painfulness of the body, with an acute sensibility to the touch.-
Jaundice with soreness of the liver.- Swelling o,the body artd turning black,
(protrusion oft!le eyes and hanging out of the tongue).- Great inclination, to lie
down. - Weakness and relaxation of the ligaments. - Fainting fits with agitation
of the blood and congestion to the head. - Sensation ofan interruption of the eir~
culation of the blood and coldness in all the veins. - Apoplexia sanguiuea. -
Convulsions ofchildren.-Cataleptic fit. The body stiff, immoveable, with shriek-
ing, gnashing of the tetth and hiceough. - Very great liability to tllke cold.
Digitized by Coogle
20 Aconitum.
Crawling on different spot1 offhe 1kin, with peeling and itehing. - Spots here-
and there, resembling fleabites. - Meale•. - Purpura miliam. - Inftammation
like erysipelas.
Frequent yawning.- Great drownneu, even in taking a walk, especially-after
dinner. - Coma vigil, with an.riotu fantarie•. - Very light Bleep. - Fearful
dreams, with nightmare.-Animated dreiUD8, in which obeeure circumstances are
completely developed.
Shaking chills with great redness of the face and pain in the limb& - General
chilly shiverings, in the evening," with thirst, burning heat in the face, rednet!lll
of the cheek11 and headache, ~reBSing outwards. - Heavy c'bilhl with t.ueeeeding
dry burning heat, anxiety and oppreBBion. - Burning dry heat, with hot p!U'Ched
skin and great thirst. - Hot skin with overflowing chilly shiverings.- Internal
dry heat, with chills over the whole body, with heat of the forehead and the lobes
of the ear.- Inflammatory acute fever.- Rheumatic, nervous, puerperal- and
milk-fever.- Pulse hard or intermitting, full, small.
Complaining and lamentation during the pains.- .DUtrunng anziety with
lamentations and upbrnidings - Apprehension8.- Fear ofdeath and eupentitious
prli'diction of the day ofitB approach.- Intolerance ofnoise.- E:rce•nve liability,
to be eanly frightened.- Great fretfulneBS and violent impetuosity.
Weakness ofmemory.- Inability, to exercise the thougbtB in .the natural way,
as if ~II mental impreBBions arose from the stomach. - Umteadine•• of idea.
'
Moping dizzines•, particularly in a warm room. - Vertigo with apparent lo68
ofeyesight, on moving the head, or when stooping, or rising from the seat, with
danger of falling. - GiddineBB attended with a sick stomach.
Headache on a small spot of the os bregmatis, either when touched, or blown
upon by the air.- Jamming or compressing headache (depriving of recollection),
especially above the root of the nose. - Squeezing in the forehead and over the
eyes.-Heaviness, fullnes8 and pressing outward• in theforehead, especially when
leaning forwards. - Stinging or throbbing in the head, or drawing, on one side
of the head. - Congestion to the head. - Burning, and bubbling, like boiling
water. - Iflllammations of the brain.- Hydrocephalus internus. - A feeling of
wavering and motion ofthe brain, in moving, drinking and speaking. - Selll!8tion
ofa cooling ball, ascending from the abdomen towards the head.- Headache from
taking ~old, with buzzing in the ears, catarrh and abdominal pains. '- Headache
increased by speaking and moving, alleviated in the open air.
Acute inflammation of the eyes, with deep rednes8 ofthe arteries. - Inflamma-
tion ofthe eyes, after catching cold, or caused by extraneous bodies, accidentally
entering them.- Inflammation of the eyes of newborn children.- Vehement
inflammation caused by bruising; (alternately with arnica).- Inflammation like
erynpelas, and hard 8WellingttJfthe eyelid.$, with a straining pain especially in the
morning. -Inflammation of the eyes with very painfullippitude (bleareyedness)r
eo that the patient prefen death to the pain. - Dryness and heaviness of the eye-
lids. - Closing of the eyes. with drowsineBB. - Sensation ofswelling in the eyes.
- Protrusion, spasm and distortion of the eyes.- Staring.- Dilated pupils. -.
Attacks ofsudden blindness.-:- Shunning light, or desire for light, (lighthunger.)
Otitis.-Humming befure the e8l'8.
Digitized by Coogle
Aconitum. 21
Stupefying compression at the root of the nose. - Bleeding at the no~e, (Epist-
axis).- Heightened senee .of smelling.
Redness ofthe face. - Blueish face with black lips. - DU!tortion of the cwnte-
'nance.- Sensation ofswelling about the cheeks. - Inflammatory, rheumat'ic, craw-
ling prosopalgia, with swelling of the lower'maxilla.-Hot, bloated face.-Sweat-
ing on the upperlip under the nose, and on that cheek, upon which one lies.
Throbbing toothache, after cold, with congestion to the·head and burning in
the face.- Pains and swelling after putting in artiicial teeth. '
Dryness in the 17UJ'Uth. ~ Moi11t tongue with sensation ofdryness in the mouth.
-Crawling, burning, stitching in the tong.fle.- Inflammation ofthe cavity ofthe
17UJ'Uth and of the to~e. - Painful sensation ofsoreness, 88 if the oriftce of the
salivary glands were corroded.- Salivation, with stinging in the tongue.- Spit-
ting ofblood (h~emoptysis).
Pain in the throat, 88 if from utringents. - Crawling in the tUOphagw. -
Choking in the throat when swallowing and speaking. - B~ing or stinging
pains in the throat with difficulty ofswallowing. - Inflammation ofthefauces, of
the soft palate, and ofthe tUophagm with deep redness ofthe parts.
Taste bitter or putrid.-Violent thirst, choking with thirst, eminently so, while
·the mouth dry.- Desire for wine.- Lingering nausea and anorexy.
Vain inclination to eructate.- Unproductive eruc.tation.- RUing ofBUJeetish
water, with qualmishness and buzzing in the ears.
Sick stomach in the morning, fasting. - Tendency to vomiting, (like after
taking sweet,.meal8 or very fat food), even when walking in the open air.- Vom-
iting of bitter bilious matter or bloOdy slime, attended with choking. - HtBffUJt-
emesis.- Vomiting oflumbricoides.
Cardi.algia after eating. - Straining pre1Bure in the stomach and in tAe scrolii-
cu1us cordis, as if proceeding from a weight, with obstruction of breatliing. -
Contraction in the stomach as iffrom astringents.- Gastritis and disphragmatitis.
-Swelling in the epigaatric, and hypochondriac regions, with throbbing and bur-
ning, increased by compression.
In the hypochondrioc regions a ltraining prume, as iffrom a weight. -Con-
striction of the hypochondria. - Pressure or stinging-burning soreness in the re-
gion of the liver:- Hepatitis.- Renitis with pungent pains in the lumbar region
and suppressed urinal s~retion.
Abdominal pains of a drawing kind, when preMing the stomach together.-
Compressing, raffing and pinching about the umbilical region, and retraction ofit.
-Insupportable cutting pain in the bowels, in the morning, in bed.- Enteritis
with burning, cutting and throbbing in the umbilieal region. .....: The abdomen is
suiol~en, as in ascites. - Painful soreness of the abdomen, when touched. - Wind-
colic with rumbling noise in the bowels, especially at night.
Hard stools with forcing.- Frequent, small, soft stools with tenesmus.-
White itools.- Waterish diarrbrea.- Involuntary stools from relaxation of the
sphincter ani.- Ascarides. -,Pains in the rectum.- Stinging and squeezing in
the anus..- Bleeding pilu.
Ischury with pressure in the bladder ahd pains in the kidnE-ys. - lschury of
newborn children.- Frequent, painful, uneasy urgings, to discharge urine.-
Flow ofurine with sweat, disrrhrea and pain in the bowels.-lnvoluntary flow of
Digitized by Coogle
Aconitum.
urine, proceeding from relaxation of the neck of the bladder.- Urine Aigh rea,
sparing, or brown, ardent, with a lateritious sediment.-The urine after remain-
ing for some time, deposits a bloody sediment.
Diqlinished sexual inclination. - AmoroW! fits. - Crawling aenaation in the
sexual parts.
Inflammatio~ of the labia majora; metritis; oariti&- Prolonged memtnuJtW11.
- Metrorrhagia. - The mell8truation commences with mania. - Lew:orrhc:ea,
tough and yellowish.
Violent sneezing with pain in the abdomen. - Sneezing is prevented by sore-
ness in the leftside.- Aphonia, caused by screaming.- HOIU'I!eness(with angina).
A kind of numbness and loss of sensibility in the trachea. - Tracheitis. -
Croup. - The epiglottis periodically palsied in swallowing, so that things may
easily enter the glottis and produce coughin!!l'
Cough from 81f!Oking tobacco or after drinking.- Dry short cough, especially
after midnight. - Hooping-cough. - Painful hamaoptym with nooturnal anxiety
and timidity. ~ Every solitary cough with violent stitchu in the chut and in it1
Bides. ·
Breathing short and difficult or quick, contracted.- An.rious contracting pru•
BUre of the che1t with obstruction of breath. - Suffocating fits with great anxiety.
Asthma Millari.
Pain in the breast with a sensation of~eaviness and comprellllion around the
·whole chest.-Cl'llwling pain in.the breast.- Stinging and piercifll{ through the
chest and its sides, ~pecially when breathirlg or coughing. - Pleuritis. - P~
monia. - A feeling ofgreat anxiety in the breast. - Chronic cl.iseue of the heart
with dyspnoe and .stinging in that region, when in motion and ascending stepe.-
Palpitation ofthe heart with anxiety, with a higher temperature of the body. -
Oarditis. ....:.. Rheumatism of the heart. - Galactorrhrea.
The small of the back aches, as ifbeaten; stitf, maimed and sore, the same in
the hip-joints;- boring pain in the whole back.- Crawling in the spine, as ii
from chafers. - ~ging agitation along the whole spine, increased by l'f'spiration.
-Rheumatic pains.in the neck, only by motion.- Debility and want of firmne88.
. in the neck, with a feeling, as if the flesh were loose from the bone.
The arms as ifcrushed and powerless. - A feeling of heaviness in them, the
fingers asleep.- Swelling of the shoulder-muscles with pain as ifbeaten, when
touched.- Disability of the fore-arm and hand, in writing and resting, relieved by
motion. - The band insensible, cold and benumbed. - Swollen hands. - Craw-
ling in the fingers. -
Hip-joint and thigh as if bruised and squashed, especially after lying d~wn
and sleeping. - Tottering walk caused by infirmness and pain in the head of tho
os femoris.- Want offirmness and easy breaking ofthe knee.- Inflamed swelling
of the legs and feet with internal and external heat; red spots on the skin and
soreness, when touched or moved. - Pain in the joints of the feet, with despair
and fear of death. - Heaviness of the feet. - Cold1 feet, especially on the toes.,
and sweat of the soleti and toes.
Digitized t,~Coogle
Actrea.
3. Actrea.
Att•• •pica/a. - Germ. CAr{llupluAral.
Duration of t;ffecl: in acute eases about 8 hours, in chronic eases Crom .s-
i2days.
It an8Uler8 weU qfter: nux vomica.
Predominant e.ffect8: Arthritic or rheumatic complaints; chronic arthritic pains.
- Neuralgia. - Hemicrania. - Prosopalgia Fothergilli. - Cotunni isehias. -
·Coincident gastric-bilious symptoms.- In the evening and at night appear the
·mo8t symptoms.- Many symptoms arise when lying or sitting,- The affections
of the head are relieved by exercise in the open air. - Symptoms in the head,
abdomen and mind after eating.
Continual restlessnf'SS Md anxious throwing about. - Great PX(litement of the
nerves, in the Qlorniitg. - Very reluctant, to be uncovered; exposure to the air
preduces a sensation ofa painful tension in the breast. - Liability to take cold. -
Disinclination to exercise in the open air.
:General itching, especially on the scalp and in the face. - Dry herpetic erup-
tions with isolated itching pimplel!. - A furfuraceoue peeling offon,ditrerent parts
ofthe body. - Pustulous eruptions. - Tedious crawling.
Coma vigil, with half open eyes. - Wakefulness.- Drowsiness in the day-
time.- Easily frightened, he startles at the least impression or noise and criea
sometimes while asleep.
Vehement internal and external !teat.- Violent febrile excitement, at night.
-Excessive agitation and congestion of the blood to the head, produced by.drink-
ing coffee. - Insatiable thirst. - Continual inquietude and anxious tossing about.
_._Incapacity, to lie in bed, at night. .....:. Nocturnal sleeplessness.- The attacks of
fever are mostly preceded by a mild cold shivering in the back, and beginning al-
ways at different times. - Nocturnal attacks of fever. - AnXious heat of the
forehead. - Bul'ning in the neck, as ifhot water were poured over it. - Excessive
mental excitement. - General; sour smelling sweat.
Dejectedness. - Sadness. - Desperation about the success ofevery, even the
most triffing undertaking. - Hopelessness. - Constant apprehension. - Bewil-
dering fits, almost to the degree of insanity. - Selfdeception. - Caprice. - Self-
satisfaction. - Anger. - Irresolution. - Great desire to work, though incapable
ofit.- Inconstancy.- Anxious solicitude, when quiet.- Constant lamentation
and sighing. - Fear ofdeath, especially at night in bed.- JudgnJent perplexed.
-Mental exhaustion. - Dejection, with inclination to weep.- Growing love of
life. - Inclination to debauchery. - Mental enjoyment, while exercising.
Weakness of memory.·- Incapacity to recollect.- Abstraction or occasional
absence ofmind. -,Indisposed to close thinking. - Weakened apprehension.
----
Giddiness and reeling, gradually abated in the open air. - Heaviness and dul-
ness in the forehead. - Vertigo with darkening before the eyes. - Dizziness with
a sensation of.,emptiness ~ the forehead, when stooping.
Shooting headache~ with a sensation ofswelling towards the neck, when sit-
ting.- Excessive racking in the vertex, almost causing despair, extending to the
Digitized by Coogle
,
Actrea.
eyebrows. - Dull cutting pllin in the head, attended "'ith momentary vanishing
ofconsciousness and with rustling and humming deep in the brain.- A tearing
gnawing pain in the right temple, especially in the mastoid process, as i( it would
be screwed oft; at night in bed, connected with a moodng cutting pain in the in·
terior of the head. - Pressure in the occiput. - Jerking throbbing in the brain.
Burning heat on the forehead , above the eyebrows, alternating with a jam·
tning pain between the forehead and os bregmatis. - Stinging, drawing or dull
pressing in the region of the thalami nervorum opticorum with obf!curarion of
sight, after smoking tobacco. - Sudden stitches through the right temple into the
brain. - Soreness of the whole head, wben l!itting or lying. - Congestion of the
forehead with great redness of the face. - Crampy pre88Ure in both tubero fron·
talia, when speaking. - Boring and rending headache on the whole right side,
with excesl!ive soreness, when standing accompanied with cloudiness and dizzinese,
decreased in the open air by exercise, · abated after drinking coffee. - Violent
shooting pain in the forehead. - Mooting in. the left tuber frontale, with a een-
S.'ltion, as if the bone would be crushed, with moaning, after eating and cold
drinking. -Throbbing and hammering, alternating with burning below the right
eyebrow. - Sensation of l:leat between the eyebrows towards evening.- Cutting,
sometimes gnawing in the'teft frontal sinus. - Frequently the pains in the fron-
tal sinus disappear, and wander to isolated spots of the cranium, but return after
midnight.- Excited sensibility of the whole frontal bone, becoming aeute, when
touched, and compelling, to cry out. - Stinging pain from witliin, in- the right
eyebrow.- Sometimes minute stitches, as if with a needle, sometime3 a stirrintr
boring pain in the middle of the forehead. •
Severe itching and crawling on the scalp alternating with sen~~ation of beat. -
The hairs falling off. - On the sinciput towards the front a furfuraceous peeling
off. - Copious sweat; the head and face dripping wet. - Sensation of ease nnd
hilarity after coughing and sneezing. - Burning beat on the occiput, in thf'
evening.
The eyes very red, sparkling, protruded, with a rapid motion; very sensiblf'
to the light.- Sparkling and glittering before the'eyes.- Smarting, itching and
burning.-Tension imd rooting in the interior of the eye, sometimes quivering.-
'When closing the eyes, a eens.'ltion a5 if sand were in them.- Boring and tearing
pain in the socket of the pght eye.- Sometimes fiery illusions, as if globes, after
midnight. - The eyes sunken and dim, with livid circles around them.- Irrita-
tion and cloudine!;S of the eyes. -The eyelids puffed and in'flamed, especially the
superiors.- Continual itching pricking thereon, compelling to rub them.- Iso-
lated millet-like vesicles on the right upper eyelid, without biting or itching. -
The eyes cemented together by a purulent yellow mucus. -Twitching of the left
upper eyelid in the morning. - Soreness in the right upper eyelid. -Secretion of
a serous fluid, sometimes tears.-Stinging and itching of the internal canthi, after
reading or writing.-Soreness of the internal canthi.
Tinkling; humming, roaring, or ringing in the ears. - A tense pressure in the
tympanum. -A sense of obstruction and transient difficult hearing, after eating.
- Burning itching, with a sensation of heat in the right external ear, when
Iying.-Rending boring pain in the right tympanum.- Rooting outward.- Sen-
sation as ifcold air were rushing in and aggravating the pain, in the afternoon. -
Digitized by Coogle
lI
A<Ua.
Selll!atioll oF beat alternating With itching on the lei\ earftap. - Pricking In tbEi
right earftap.- Great sensibility o{ the ears to currents ofSir.-Thin liquid sour·
smelling cerumen.- 8Jl88DlodiC pain in the interior ofthe right ear, extending to
the cavity of the mouth. -Perspiration behind the ears in lying.
Redness and erysipelatoua inflammation of the tip of the nose, with vehement
itching and pricking. - The cuticle of the nose furfuraceous peeling off. - Bur-
ning in the lei\ nostril, with sensatien of dryness and coldness. - Craeks on the
left wing of the nose, in the morning. ....... Scab on the right wing of the nose. -
Pustulo:us eruption on the septum of the 1\ose.- Red itching pimples; intolerably
burning af\er scratching. - Sensation of ulceration in the nostrils. - Excellllive
tearing boring pain in the root of the nose towards the right frontal sinus. -
Bleeding from the left nostril
The face bright red. -The right side of the face bloated, with a dull prelllling,
sometimes with compression of the parotis. - Racking spasmodic pain in the
zygomatic bone. - Boring upon the periosteum. - In the lower jaw tearing out-
ward with frequent stinging, especially after midnight....... Swelling of Ule cheek,
with rheumatic pains.- Sunken, pale aitd emaciated face.- Pressing outward
below the eyes, considerably augmented by exercise, sneezing, and stooping.
Drawing and tension in the Wlderlip, extending towards tl,le chin.- Dryness
and senilation ofsoreness on the upperlip, after eating.- Dry herpetic eruption
around the mouth, with isolated itching pimples.
Shooting and dilacerating pain in the left molares of the lower jaw, with a
sensation, as if they were too long, decreasing af\er smoking tobacco. - Burning
on the gUms, with a sensation ofswelling. - Drawing tension in the gums of the
right upperjaw, extending towards the uvula.-Highred Mue streaked appearance
of the gums. - Sensation of heat in the gums, af\er smoking tobacco and cold
drinking.
·Frequent spitting.- Conflux ofa sour liquid in the mouth.- Gnawing on the
inside of the right cheek, with soreness. - The tongue red, clean, not furred, hot
tremulous. - Sometimes burning on different spots of the tongue. - Soreness of
the tongue, chiefly in the morning.
Drynes~ and ardor in the throat; sometimes a sensation as if hot air were
passing through it. - Burning scratching in the throat, when swallowing solid
food. - Strong pressure in the ltlft tonsil, with sensstion ofswelling. - Dull pres-
sure in the whole cesophagus, with oppression of the chest.
Sour, bitterl$b, sometimes saltisb taste.- Return of food, with nausea and
tendency to vomit, in the evening.- Frequent thirSt with scratching dryness in
the·throat·as ifafter waking at night.-Increased heat after cold drinking.
Sour·eructation. - Heartburn after every meal. - Frequent eructation, and
Wleasy pressure in the <esophagus, after speaking. -Sensation as if from a vit-
iated stomach.
Tension and pressure in the stomach, after eating. - Flabbiness. - Constric-
tion. of the stomach, at night. - Grumbling and grasping towards the pyloru,s.-
Gnawing and drawing, sometimes turning into a considerable pain, at night.-
Spasmodie contraction immediately above the navel. - Throbbing pain in the pit
of the stomach.- Drawing and tension in the pit of the stomach, with inter-
mittent chilliness, when exercisiilg in the open air.- Pressure and sensation of
3
Digitized by Coogle
.._.
26 Actrea.
fullness, as if every thing were tight, with oppreesioil and gasping for air, after
awaking at night, increased to the highest degree by co1fee and exciting draught&
Pressure deep in the liver. - Sensation of fullneee in the liver~- TeDBion and
stretching in the part of the liver towards the diaplaraguL - aometimes a BUdden
momentary burning in it.- Stretching and dilacerating pain, u ifthe liver wotlld
enlarge, in the evening and when moving in the bed.- A light pricking pressure
after eatil\g.- Painful distension of the right hypochondrium, alleviated from
eructation. - Shooting and rending from the right to the left hypochondrium,
especially, ·when lying.
In the renal region burning, alternating with drawing.- Tearing stretching
pain towards the spina, severest on sitting, decreased by motion. - Sometim~
stitches fore- and backwards. -Pressure and sensation of soreness in both kid-
neys.-Vehement burning pain, sometimes pricking itching on the left side, imme-
diately succeeded by discharge of a muddy lateritious urine with much sediment.
Pains shooting outward in the abdomen, occasioned by sneezing and coughing.
-Very painful iension and pressing' wringing about the navel-Below the navel
a sharply circumscribed, reddish, painfully tense, small elevated tumour.- Dis-
tention of the belly, -attended with transient stitches, sometimes shooting, ex-
tending towards the right side of the breut. - Pressing griping in the bowels,
generally changing to a cutting vellicating pain, frequently before evacuation. -
Sensation ofa burning heat over the whole hypogutrium, in the evening, when
sitting.- Spasmodic retraction of the abdominal muscles, when going to bed. -
Inflation of the belly, especially on the right side.- Stretching drawing and ten-
sion towards the right lumbar-region.- Tympanous distention of the hypo-
gutrium and frequent grumbling from below. upwards, with eructation, after
, eating, gradually disappearing with a slight motion. - Frequent rumbling and
grumbling.- Sensation as if from a heavy weight on the abdomen, when lying.
Shooting about the rectum.-Frequent ineffectual efforts to stool.-Vehement
pressure, sometimes cutting and burning in the rectum.- Protrusion of the
hremorrhoidal tumours, and pricking burning therein._.:... Wringing in the bowels.
-During evacuation great anxiety, arising from the hypogastrium. - Costive-
ness with a drawing tension in the back, towards both loins. -Stitches in the
back. - Discharge of hard stools, in the morning. -Vehement tedious griping,
cutting and mooting in the bowels. - Stinging pain in the left side of the hypo-
gastrium. - Tenesmus. - Thin, corrosive, acrid evacuations, twice intermixed
with bloody slim!J, in the evening.- Galling and fretting about the ann&- Prick-
ing in the rectum.- Sensation ofemptinesa in the hypogastrium.
Dripping of ardent urine, with efforts to stool. -Constriction of the urethra
and violent burning in it. - Strong urging to urinate with vehement itching and
pricking at the orifice ofthe glans penis.-Copious, fiery, turbid urine, with athick
sediment, succeeded by alleviation in the morning. -Copious discharge of slime.
-Stinging in the urethra towards the abdomen. -Shooting and drawing strain-
ing in the ureters. - Sometimes transient stitches in the region of the bladder,
connected with pressure in the rectum, without evacuation.- Hrematuria.
Spasmodic erections, attende~ with a straining pain in the root ofthe penis. -
Libidinous sensations. - Inclination to cohahit.- Pressing, sometimes rending or
inward piercing in the right testicle.
Digitized by Google
Actrea. 27
The menses very profuse and four days before the proper period. - SoreneM
in the labia pudendi, with frequent prurient pains. - Drawing straining anil
prell8Ure, sometimes transient stitches in the vagina towards the uterus. -
Burning, when discharging urine.
Catarrhal complaints. - Flowing catarrh with uneasy tickling in the right
nostril and sneezing, caused by it. - Copious discharge of a serous fluid from
the nose.
Sometimes trembling of the voice.-Uncomrnonly rapid speaking.
Irritation to cough in the larynx from cold air and cold water. - Straining
cough and spasmodic constriction, of the bronchie. -Sometimes a frothy, slimy,
bloody expeetoration.
Considerably increased sensibility of the organs of respiration, to any thing
cold.- Angina pectoris.- Sensation, as if the chest·were screwed together,
almost to 81lffocation, with excessive oppression arid great anxiety. - Short, un-
equl, asthmatic, rattling breath, at night, when lying, relieved by rising.
• Compression of the right lung, coincident with pricking drawing or painful
stretching towards the left shoulder.- Sometimes shooting obliquely through "the
lungs, with asthmatical attacks.- Vehement pressure in the posterior part of
the lungs, sometimes a sensation, as ifit were dilacerated, at night.-Squeezing
and pressure from the heart towards the abdomen. - Strong oppression of the
chest, with sensation as if the blood had not a free p8888ge through the larger
vessels, with incapacity to lie on the back.-Pressure from the heart towards the
hepatic region with excessive anxiety, blueish red or brown face, at night.- DuD
pricking in the left side of the breast towards the spina; periodical jerks.- Great
sensibility to cold air;·short difficult breathing. - Sudden vehement tearing or
drawing in the pectoral cavity towards the abdomen, with burning. - The
warmth of the bed insupportable.- Frequent fainting dts, cold ·sweat.- The
heart beating weak, suppressejl, unequal, attended with strong pressure in the •
abdomen and rumbling succeeded by copious, drst slimy, then blackbloody evao-
uation.-Great weakness and tremor ofthe body.
Swelling of the female breasts, with sensation of heat in them. - Frequent
shooting pains in the right breast, sometimes a straining drawing in the left one;
at night. -Tedious itching in the nipples and after scratching a burning therein,
in the morning. -Flabbiness and minute pricking in the breasts, in the forenoon.
Light dull pressing in the external breast, with sensation of heavines&-
Stinging drawing towards the hepatic region in the morning. - Vehement moot-
ing in the sternum, extending towards the clavicles.
Stiffness of the neck. - Tension from the neck towards both shoulders. -
Sudden jerks in the spina, succeeded by a sensation as ifbeate~..- Slight chilli-
ness between the shoulders, in the morning. - Inclination to lie on the back. -
Continual throwing about.- Anxious restlessness, and sensation, as if besten,
when lying. -Formication in the back, especially in the os sacrum. -Cold shiv-
ering along the baCk, attended with trembling and great tenderness.- Drs~g
from the right costal- to the right lumbar-region.-A circumscribed, very painful
spot about the middle of the back, when touched intolerably burning, at mid·
night.- Sensation of weakness in the small of the back.- Copious, offensive,
Digitized by Coogle
.28 Actrea. - Aethusa.
clammy sweat, in the morning.- Painful rending in the left eide ofthe baek.-
Puatulous eruption on the left loin.
Continual pains in the extremities. - Boring pains in the lhoulder-join&a.-
Pricking and gnawing in the left os humeri, 88 if in the periosteum, moet ex-
cessive at night. -Boring in the wrist, with outward stinging pain towards the
ulna and radius.- Swelling ofthe wrist with redn818, piercing paina.- Stiftbess
of the right arm.- TeDSion in the fingers of the right hand, with drawing to-
wards the hand. - Burning on the back of both hands. - Sensation of warmth
and clammy sweat in the palm of the hands, after midnight.- Sometimes jerks
and plunges from the breut into the arms. - Benumbedneu of the arms or
hands. - A sensation Gf lameness in the arms with formication. - Slight stings
alternating with drawing in the tips of the fingers of the left hand, in the
morning.
Racking and jamming pains in the hips. - Drawing tension in the lumbar
region, 88 if from swelling, increued by warmth of the bed. - Crawling on
both hips.
In the right thigh, below the hip-joint vehement burning itching, increased by
friction. - Sensation of lamenesa in the thighs, with inability to move them.-
Involuntary motions of the muecles, sometimes jerks in the right thigh. -In bed
the thighs benumbed, and almost unable to move them.- Sensation in the thigh,
as iffrom dislocation.
In the knee ana foot-joint exceesive racking burning pains, 88 if a hot iron
were forced into the bones, or the whole leg as if split, with swelling. - Tume-
faction and redness of the knee-joint, very tender to the touch, even the bed-
clothes are insupportable, at night. - Boring rooting from the shinbone into the
foot-joint,- Painful stretching, mostly burning heat in the leg, abating by mo-
tij)n, in the morning, succeeded by ineffectual urging to urinate, with vehement
burning. -The cuticle of the right leg peeling off, sometimes attended with a
slight burning.- Boring and wringing pain in the external right ankle.-Rending
• stinging in the toes. - Pricking in the little toe of the left foot. - Swelling and
redness of the big toe of the left foot, with painful tension, after midnight. -
Whirling vibration in the sole of the foot, alternating with burning. - Numbness
in the back ofthe right foot, nearly torpid.
.4. Aethma.
Predominant effect•: Tearing and •tinging in the extremities.- Fits of tor-
por.- Cramps, with delirium and stnpor.- Epileptic cramp3.-The symptoms
incre&M in the room and decrease in the open air.
Great drotoline~1. - Coma vigiL
Coldne88, especially ofthe limbe, and chilli, with drowsineM. - Pulae 11mall,
somewhat hard, quick.- Irregular pulae and palpitation ofthe heart.
R.utlem&eu canl cm.riety.-Fretful peeviahneas increased in the open air.
Uneonscioumees.- Delirium.- Fixed ideas.- Insanity.
Digitized by Coogle
Aethusa. --. Agnus. 29
Diz%ineiB, a& if tlae brain tDere bound together.- Vertigo tDith drotDiinul.-
CMnpre11ing headache.-Tearing or 1triking and piercing in tlae head, ehiefty in
the afternoon. -The head (88 well 88 the filce and hands) eeems 88 if swollen
when coming from the open air into a room.
Violent burning of the eyes, 88 if from smoke in a room.- Many little red
Teins in the conjunctin. - Glistening protuberant eyes. - 8to.ring, lifelen eyu.
- Fixed strange look.-Downward distorted eyeballs.
Piercing and rending in the eor1. -The ears apparently closed, with difficult
hearing.
Face pale, tDan. - Collapsed and disfigured fuce. - Countenance· full of
anxiety, and denoting pains. - Painful piercing alld rending in the oua %ygo-
matica.
Sweetish or bitter taste in the mouth, with dryness.-Heat in the 0!80phagua.
..-... Milky foam aboqt the mouth.
Milk made me ofil thrown up.-Vomiting of porraceoua slime, of milky white
froth.- Vomiting, with frequent painful disrrhma. ·
Rending painfrom the 1crobicultu oordil upwardl into the tUOphagtu.
Stinging in the lumbar and hypoclumdriac regionl.- C6ldnel8 in tlae abdomen.
.-The abdomen bloated, sore when touched, especially in the region of the liver.
-Dark blue swelling of the belly.
Soft stool, with cutting pain and tenesmU&- DiarrluM, with a thin, biliotu,
light-yellow or green dilcharge, together tDith violent tenum.
Copious; pale urine.
Anxious, sobbing, 1/wrt breath.
Darting jerks in the nape.- Rending in the neck.- Pain in tlae mall of the
back, a& if1crewed together.- Painful furuncle in the small ofthe back.
Tightness in the tendons of the arms and fingers, when bent. - During con-
vulsions the thumbs are clinched.
5. Agnus.
Predominant ejfect1: Pains in the limbs, a& if they were lw:ated.- Inftamma-
tory, rheumatic swelling of the joints.-Arthritic concretioD&
Pricking, pungent itching on different parts of the skin.
Coma.- Ret~tless sleep with awaking, 88 ifalarmed, and starting&
Internal chilli tDith tremour and perceptible ezternal tDGNnth. -Chilliness, or
alternation of heat and chill, without thirst; only the hands are externally cold.-
Burning heat, flying over 'the whole ·body, with cold knees, in the evening in bed.
Melancholic-hypochondriac humour.- Great 141l.neu, tDith feor of approach-
ing death.- ExceE!SWe anxiety, with great debility.- Eccentric mind, alternating
with disesteem ofone's set£
Great mental ab1traction, absence o( mind, and want of recollection-- Diffi-
cult apprehension of what has been read.
~igitized by Coogle
36 Agnus. - AlcohoL
PaiR in the upper port of the helM~, t11 qfter !uniag 6eea in a JG.pWl nJOm,
relie•ed by looking towarda one point, and a aenation of heaYiaela when ~
away.-Contracting pain in the head, especially when reading.- PrellinfJ ren-
ding in the temples and forehead; increased by motion.
Pungent itching or pricking on the scalp, particularly at evening, and when
falling asleep.- Tightness of the teguments of the head, with ehiUinea Gnd ez-
ternally perceptible warmth.
Burning in the eyes, in the evening, when reading.-Pungent itc/Mg on the
eye-broioiJ, the lids, above and belOw the eyu.-Very dilated pupils.
Buzzing and tingling in the ean.
(Pseud081Ilia) a mere illusion of the smell ofmusk or herringB.- Hard pree-
sure in the root of the noae, disappearing by external pressure.
In the face, especially on the cheeks, formication and pagent itchi"'f.-
Rending in the right side of the lower jaw under the alveoli.
lllur• in the mouth and on the gums. - Eating or drinking warm ca118e8
toothache.
Taste in the mouth, 88 if from copper or metal. (PaeudogeWiia..) - Absence
of thirst and aversion to all liquids.- After dinner full and inJJated.
Frequent hiccoughing with peevish fretfulness.
Ajlabby sickiiJhfeeling, jir1t in the pit ofthe lt&maeh, then in the bowels, 88
ifall the intestines were sinking down. - Pressure in the region of the liver, in-
creased by touch.- SweUing and obduration ofthe apleen.-Ascite1.- Great flat-
ulency; rumbling in the abdomen, especially during sleep.
Costive:qess.- Soft 1tooll.- Crackl and chaps in the anm.
Augmented urine.-The urethra discharges a ytillow slime.
Relaxation ofthe 1ezual power, lax, cold genitals, not irritable, without incli-
nation. - Gonorrhrea. - Gonorrhrea 1ecundaria, with absence of desire and erec-
tion.- SweUing and induration of the te1ticle1, after suppretlled gonorrh<ea. -
Pungent itching on the perineum.-Prostatic fluid emitted when difiieult stooling.
Sterility.- Suppru1ed menstruation with pain, bearing down.
Toneless voice.- Cough in the evening in bed, before falling asleep.
Pressure upon the sternum, increased by breathing deeply.- Agalactia in
childbed.
In the arm-pits and upper-anna a hard pressure, augmented by touch.-
Arthritic concretions on the finger-joints.
Rending on the feet and toes, particularly when walking. -The feet easily
sprained, when walking on stone-pavements.- Heaviness in the feet, elrawinJ
downwards.
6. Alcohol.
For combustion in the lower degrees it is used externally, e81e6ed, and ot\ea
repeated.
·For overheating ofthe body, by drops 'Vith supr•.
• . - i¥.#....
. o;~itizedbyGoogle
miw msJf me te · • ·
.Atcohol. - Alkekengi. 31
AI antiJDte for: phoephol'WI, selenium~ sulphur,- and for others instead of
wine, viz.: acidum earbonicum, cuprum, graphite&; aconitum, &manita, bella-
doDD&, lactuea, dUX vomica, ranunculus, spigelia;-jodine1- bite of a serpent1
1. Alkekengi.
Duration ofeffect: a few days.
Antidote: eamphora.
U1ed at antidotefor: the bad consequences ofseeale cornutum.
Constant internal inquietude with pains in all the limbs.-When rising, trem-
bling and tottering of the body, sinking down with giddin~ and unconsciousness.
-Bending of the limbs almost impossible, stretching very difficult.- Excessive
decay of strength. -Complete atony, towards evening.- Emaeiation.-Jerkmg,
pricking and insufferable crawling in the extremities.- Typhus symptoms. -
Rheumatismus paralyticus.- Raphania; (necrosi» ustilaginea.)
Excessive soreness of the whole body, especially in the afternoon. - Frequent
jerking and convulsions. - Benumbedness uf the whole body. - Incapable of
drawing up the feet in bed. - Frequent involuntary stretching, with some relief
of pain.- Foimication through the whole body, particularly in the extremities.
Itching and pricking, liOmel.imes burning in the skin.- Congestion of blood to
the skin.- General perspiration of the body. - Pustulous itching eruption on the
right side of the spina near the shoulder. - Sweat on the feet and hands. - Co-
pious, clammy, offensive sweat of the whole body.
Drowsiness.- Disturbed sleep, continually interrupted by pains.- Wakeful·
ness towards morning. - During sleep talking, frequent startJin! and screeching.
-When fiilling asleep frequent starts through the whole body. ·
Inconsiderable symptoms offever towarda evenfhg.-Insatiable thirst.- Pulse
weak, slow and intermitting.- Dry, soft skin.- Great restlessness and anxiety.
- Cold shivering over the whole body with internal burning heat. - External
heat after chills.
Unaffected by agreeable impressions. - Indifference. - Aversion to company;
incapable of being diverted. - Dejectedness and timidity.- Pensiven~ - Ex-
cessive irritation with fits of sudden laughter about trilling things. -Capriciously
irritated abo~ a harmless word.- Inclination to anger and quarrelling.- Imagi-
nation ofdiverse confusedly playing phantasm's.-Tranaient insanity, terminating
with general powerlessness.
Diminished power of thinking.- Excessive mental exhaustion; inability to
think.- Confused thoughts.- A kind of stupidity.- Thoughtlessness.- Par-
oxysms ofunconsciousness with inclination to fainting.- Evanescence ofthoupts,
with reeling, when rising.- Unusual elevation ofspirit.-Attaeka ofinsanity and
fury, at different times, mostly attended with gnashing of the teeth, or eonTul·
eioDB and loud ahrieking.- Weakness ofmemory, he w~pts, whM he is about to
apeak.- Want of recollection.- Stupor.
Digitized by Goo0le
. t• I
J . ~::
~ ·
;·,
Alkekengi.
~ess and vertigo.-When raising the head giddine1111 and obecuration o(
Bight. -Giddiness with tremor of the body, while standing, accompanied with a
forsaking ofthe seilllell, and sinking down.-Giddiness, when sitting, with sen-
sation of ~hirling round, inclination to vomit, and vomiting.- An impression, u
if he were hanging on the ceiling, which makes it neceesary to close the eyee, on
lying. - Giddiness and fainting with strong pressure in the pit of the stomach,
succeeded by vomiting ofmucus.
Stunning headache; a dull pressing in the head with dizziness and beclouding
of senses. - Drawing pain in the left temple. - Pressing pain alternating with
drawing and burning. - Dull knocking and buzzing or clucking in the brain. -
Inward pressing pain in the sinciput.- Sell88tion ofheaviness in the whole head,
it can scarcely be raised.- ExCE>edingly painful tension in the occiput towards
the neck. - Spasmodic grasping in the right side of the occiput. - Frequent
numbness and torpor of the scalp, mostly succeeded by crawling or a pricking
Bensation ofdryness.- Squeezing between the frontal sinus, chiefly in the after-
noon.- Burning pressing pain in the left frontal sinus, at the same time a ~nsa­
tion of emptiness in the right. - Shooting tightness obliquely through the fore-
head.- Sometimes congestion to the forehead and bubbling in it.
The eyes cloudy, without lustre ·and .covered with a muddy gray mucus,
81lllken or retracted.- Weakness of sight, cecutiency.- Sometimes sparkling
before the eyes, sometimes darkening or gray spota before them.- Wavering
cast of the eye. - Diplopia: - Squinting. - Pressure in the left orbit. - Stinging
pressure in the eyes. - Pricking from inside outward In the right eye. -Pupil
contracted and somewhat distorted, motionless and inseusible to light.- The eye-
lids erysipelatously inflamed , swollen, in the morning cemented, but not quite
closed. - Vehement burning and drawing in the upperlids.- Continual twitch-
ing of the eyelids. - Sometimes a pricking tension in the left upperlid. - On the
right lower lid afew small very painful pustules.
Roaring before the ears, sometimes a peculiar sound or tinkling. - A mild
pressure in the right inner ear, with alternating drawing outward. - Pruriency
in the left external with a sensation of cold in the internal ear. -The earflaps
almost cold.- Diminished faculty of hearing. - Dysecoia (difficult hearing).-
Occasional transient deafness ofthe right ear; towards evening.
The nose rather .cold.- Squeezing tension, sometimes jamming in the root of
the nose, frequent alternating shooting through the right wing of the nose.-
When blowiug the nose, a copions thin, bloody discharge, mixed with slime. -
Soreness of the septum of the nose, immediately above the upperlip.
Pale and calcareous appearance. - Sunken and disfigured countenance. - ·
Reddish streaks on the right cheek towards the chin. - The left side of the face
bloated. - Frequent- distortion of the muscles of the face. - Distortion of the
mouth.-The right comer of the mouth drawn obliquely•
The lips pale, dry and cracked.- Painful tension in the underlip, sometimetJ
burning.- Livid lips.-An empty vesicle on the upperlip. - Soreness ofthe cor-
ners ofthe mouth with burning pains.
Rending pinching pain in the lower incisors with spasmodic drawing in the
whole lower maxilla and towards the maxillary glands.- Burning pain in a left
lower molar tooth, mostly passing over into a troubleaome sensation ofcoldneee. -
Digitized by Coogle
Alkek.eogi. 33
Shooting pinching pain in one of the right upper molar teeth, with stings in the
hard apd soft palate. - Outward rending pain in the backpart of·the upper max-
illa on the nght side near 'to the fauces. - Sensation, 88 if all the teeth were
hollow and soft, especially, when chewing. - Sensation 88 if a redhot pin were
thrust deep in the backpart of the lower maxilla, with painful stretching in the
joint and vehement chilly shivering~~ along the back.
On the inner edge of the gums in the left side a vehement burning, 88 ifan ~.,., ~
ignited coal were lying thereon. - The gums swollen, and covered with much
slime.- Drawing pain in the gums of the right side, alternat~ with stinging and
rending.- Gaping of the gums on the left side, so that the roots of the teeth are
partly laid bare, with insupportable burning pain. -The epidermis ofthe forepart
of the upper gums immedialely above the incisors peeling off, with continualsmart.
- On exposure to the air a pressure.- Bleeding of the inner edges of the guiW!.
-The blood very fluid, ofa grayish color and putrid taste.
The tongue furred with a thick muddy slime, very moveable, cold on the tip, Jrn-V •..-
its edges deflected. spasmodically contracted.-On the back of the tollgtle a vehe- . 1
ment burning, alternating with coldness.- Rasping and drawing pain in the root
of the tongue into the <esophagus, occasionally becoming violent.- Frequent tre-
mor of the tongue.- The tongue insensible, almost palsied.- Excessive crawling
and pricking on the back of the tongue. .- 1
Continual drawing and tension in the <eaophagus, sometimes with stinging. - /,rr.·•"'·
SpasJDodic pain in the right side of the <esophagus. - Tension and pressure from
the <esophagus towards the uvula.- Shooting spasm in the left tonsil.- Sensa-
tio~ of swelling.- Difficult swallowing, even liquids are retained a long while in
the mouth. - Tension and pressure in the throat, when swallowing. - Burning
hea• in the throat.- Rending in the throat, when erecting the body. - Burning
in the throst after coughing.-Spasmodic drawing and grasping in the <esophagus.
A nauseous, insipid, slimy, putrid or rancid taste, with a sensation Of dryness, I
as if produced by rancid oil. - Anorexia, every thing produces loathing and in-
clination to vomit.- Insatiable thirst.- Soreness of the salivary glands.- Offen-
sive smell from the mouth. - Sensation ofgreat weakness, sometimes a bulimy
suddenly arises, chiefly in the afternoon. .
Frequent rancid eructations.- Collection of water in the mouth.- Copious
secretion ofsaliva and slime. •
Tedious loathing and inclination to vomit.-Vomiting ofa slimy bilious matter,
preceded by choking. - Inclination to vomit, after drinking.
Cramp in the stomach.- Spasmodic compression of the stomach.- Drawing
mooting at the cardia.- Painful tension ~low the scrobiculus cordis, when mov-
ing.- Grumbling and rattling below the scrobiculus before vomiting.- Frequent
shooting through the stomach in a perpendicular direction. - Swelling of the
scrobiculus cordis with oppression on the chest and drawing pain towards the
spins. - Sensation of emptiaess and fiabbinelll!. - The stomaoh 88 ifcollapsed.
when rising.
Drawing pain' in the right hYW>Chondrium with outward presaing pain in the
depth.-Burning pain on a circumscribed spot toWards the scorbiculus cordia and
extending below the navel. - Sometimes a throbbing pressure or bubbling below
the right ribs. -When drawing a long breath e& vehement pressing from the right
Digitized by Coogle
Alkekengi.
hypochondrium towards· the navel.- When moving in bed a painful stretching
near the diaphragm and ispiua, which produces crying and moaning.- Burden-
some heaviness towards the abdomen, when rising.- Intolerably burning and
vellicating in the'hepatic region, when lying on the right side.- Soreness deep
within and externally a sensation of festering under the skin. - In the left hypo-
chondrium a drawing pain towards the back. - Excessive crawling succeeded by
heat, which frequently p1188eS over in shaking chills.- Frequent quivering in the
side forward.- Benummedness ofthe whole side, succeeded by pricking and shoot-
ing.- Painful drawing and tension with single jerks into. the depth of the hypo-
gastrium, originating in the back.
Slight distention of the hypogastrium. ....:.. Frequent rumbling and grumbling in
the hypogastrium, succeeded by voiding of wind. - Sometimes a spasmodic pain
below the navel, which is pressed inwards.- Vehement stinging and rending be-
low the navel towards the small'orthe back, increased to the·highest degree by
motion in.the bed. - Wringing in the right side of the hypogastrium , 1\8 if the
intestines were entangling, with constriction ofthe left side.- Stinging and velli-
cating towards the groins, mostly terminating in pressing. - Sensation ofempti-
ness in the whole abdomen..
Frequent pressing and straining: in the rectum.- Pressing drawing towards the
as 8IICI'UDl, especially during evacuation.- Squeezing pain in the upperpert of the
rectum.- Liquid black colored stool, with small fiatulency. -Cutting pressure in
the rectum, with efforts to stool...;.. Pruriency externally around the anus, extend-
ing to the thigh.- Excessive griping in the hypogastrium, sometimes with tenes-
mU& - Evacuation of hard faeces, succeeded by much slime and some blood, at
night.-Two loose stools Jith much porraceous and blackish mucU&- Vehement
burning around the anus with excessive drawing pain in the small of the back and
general shivering, succeeded by burning heat,- Continual itching and tension in
the perinamm. - Whitish blister like eruption on the perineum, somewhat bur-
ning, when lying. · '
The urine reddish anq forming a whitish cloud.- Copious discharge of urine,
at night.- Tension and straining in the bladder, extending into the penis.-Some-
times a peculiar pressure on the back of the penis.- Total relaxation of the penis
and scrotum. - Frequent troublesome itching on the root of the penis and on the
posterior part of the scrotum, where_it generally ends with a burning. - Some-
times a peculiar pricking in the right testicle.
The menses at the proper time, but very liquid, and continuing only two days.
Frequent sneezing.with a copious discharge of muddy mucus, commonly p~
ceded by tickling in the nose.- Epistaxis.- Stoppage in the head.- Sometimes
hiccupping, frequent yawning, with involuntary stretching of the extremities, by
which the pains in general are somewhat diminished.
The voice dull and anxious, speaking difficult, weak and painful.
Frequent cough with expectoration of much phlegm.- Hemoptysis, soon
ceasing. - Once coughing up of thin frothy blood, after dinner. - Periodically
returning spasmodic cough, towards morning.
Respiration deep and slow, sometimes sno~g and with rattling on the chest.
-Rending straining in the left lung, when lying on the llide.-Sometimes a strong
Digitized by Coogle
Alkekengi
'(>resB~ and constriction of the lungs, almost to suffocation.- Drawing pressure
in the right side of the lungs, especially in the evening. :- ~asional asthmatiC
attacks.
Strong heavy pressure on the cheat, as ifa heavy weight were lying upon it,
originating from motion, especially, when stretching the lower extremities and
attended with an excessive anxiety and oppression, exacerbated at midnight. -
Slow, dull, even intermitting palpitation of the heart. - Sensation of warmth
about the heart;,when rising. -Strong pressure and drawing in the whole breast,
when coughing. - Burning pain deep in the left side of the breast, towards the
spina.- Sensation ofemptiness and reeling, on rising.- Externally on the chest
a continually strong itching and burning alternately with chills,- Pruriency in
the left sideofthe breast, terminating with benummedness and almost irutensibility.
-Sore spasmodic pain on the right side, near the sternum, sometimes extending
to the navel
Pain as if beaten in the back and sacral region, attended with stretching and
trembling, and excessive crawling. - Sometimes racking and extending pains in
the middle of the spine, towards the sternum.
Drawing tightness in the muscles ofthe throat. - Drawing pain between the
shoulders alternately with crawling.- Continual shooting tension in both sides of
the throat extending to the shoulders. .:._ Spasmodic grasping and pinching on the
right shoulderblade.-Stinging drawing on the left sboulderblade extending to the
posterior part of the ribs.- Relaxation in the throat and shoulders.
Squeezing or shooting pain through the left RXilla. - Sometimes a rending
squeezing in both axillas.-Wrenchi~ pain in the left shoulder-joint.-Spasmodic .
dra'!ing through the arms, originating in the tips ofthe fingers.- Pricking or
straining in the right upper-arm.:- Excessive itching or burning in the fore-arma.
-Burning pain, sometimes straining and rending irt the left elbow.- ~ramping
pain in the joint of the right elbow.- Numbness and disability of the arms, he
cannot raise them.-Excessivecrawling, especially inside the arms.-Form,ication
in the right arm.- Frequent twitching and sudden jerks through the arms. -
Pricking and itching in the arms.-Sensation ofheat and burning in the palms of
the hands with external coldness.- Excessive drawing and jamming in the tips
of the fingers. - Racking pain in the metacarpal bones of the left forefinger. -
Tension on the back of the right hand. - Outward rending pain on the back of
·the left hand, alternately with pricking, extending to the fore-arm.- Burning ren-
ding pain in the first joint ofthe thumb, of the right hand; with pricking or velli-
cating in it. - Inflammatory swelling of the right thumb with boring pain, exten-
. ding to the back of the hand. - Spaamodic rigic;lity of the fingers ofthe left hand.
-Troublesome crawling in the hands, extending to the arms.- Benummedn-,
formication and a sensation ofbruising in the upper-extremities.-Tenderness of
the points of the fingers and benummedness of single joints. - Disability and in-
flexibility of the hands and fore-arms.-Nervous twitching in the flexores ofthe
l~ft hand. -Convulsions and stretchirig of the hands and arms, by which pains
are mitigated. - A pustulous pricking eruption on the right thumb towards the
hand.- The epidermis of the bands peeling off, with itching.
Drawing pain in the thighs and legs, commencing in the small of the back. -
Rending tension on the inner side of the thigh.-Shooting in the left hipjoint ex·
Digitized by Coogle
~
I
!
36 Alkekengi. - Aloe.
tending to the nuddle ef the external Bide of the thigh. - Mootmg in the buttock,
·.extending to the hollow ofthe knee. - Dilacerating pain in the right thigh, pro-
ceeding from the loins.-Pricking, spasmodic drawing, sometimes pinching on the
foreeide of the right thigh, and burning pain in the baekpart ofit, towards-the
anus, sometimes with a eensation 88 if the bone would be preaeed out.
Pricking in ·the thighs, terminating in an exceesive crawling, eometimee altEtr-
nating with violent burning, especially on the right thigh. - Frequent 8J18111DodiC
contraction or squeezing on single spots, chiefly ofthe exterior side ofthe thigh.
-Benummedness and disability, or pain 88 if beaten in both thigh&
Painful stretching on the right shinbone, wit~ great sensibility to the touch.-
Shooting obliquely through the bend of the knee, with eenSBtion of tumefaction,
gradually decreasing.-The cuticle furfuraceously peeling off.- Intenee burning,
88 if from boiling water, alternating with coldness in the external side ofthe right
leg.- Spasmodic grasping ~ cramp in the calves, succeeded by quivering
therein.- Drawing and rending in the let\ leg.- Crawling 80reneas in both legs·
-Formication, disability, benummedneas, trembling and inflexibility of the legs.
Vibration, pricking and crawling, sometimes burning in the feet. -Pain in
the feet, 88 ifbeaten.- Nutnbneas and disability of tile feet, especially of the right •
foot.- Torpor in the toes.- A whitish-red, veheinently pricking eruption, with
large pimples on the sole ofthe let\ foot.
8. Aloe.
(Extract or Aloe apieata nd otbora.)
Predominant ~ects: Enormous excitation ofall the organs. -:- A kind of pres-
sure, flli ifthe whole body would burst.
Universal turgtlscence; the skin very red, especially in the filce and its tem-
perature raised. - Burning heat on different parts of the body, especially in the
f8ce and on the scalp.
Vehement symptoms of fever, seldom chills or coldness.- Heat, sometimes
succeeded by swea,t8. - Mostly vehement thirst. - Quickened large pulse. -
Strong. palpitation ofthe heart.- Swelling ofthe veins.
Great anxiety, fearfulne88 and restle88Dess..;_ Fear of death and great anxiety,
refusing all places ofrest.
Intolerable headache. -Vehement pressure in .the occiput, as if pressing
asunder.-Throbbing in the centre oftoo brain.-Pre88ing extending pain, some-
t.imes pulsation in the sinciput. - Often a sensation of heat in the I!!Calp. - Con-
gestion to the head, continually, and more to the hindpart and forepart, causing a ·
protrusion ofthe eyes.
Eyes glittering, somewhat red, protruded.- Unsteady and anxious look, with
extreme restle88Dess.
Sometimes bleeding at the nose.
Frequent tinkling and bumming in the ears. - Throbbing and sensation of
heat in the backpart ofthe ear.
Digitized by Go?gle
.Aloe. - Alumina. 37
Lips dry, very red, and hot, sometimes trembling.-~- in the mouth,
great thi~t.-The mouth parched.-Tongue very red and dry.
Colic. - Violent pain in the bowel& - Cutting and griping in the umbilical
region. - One has to lie on the belly, but cannot rest. -Abdomen somewhat
bloated and stretched, very sensible to the touch. - Strong pt'e88Ure from the left
side ofthe abdomen towards the navel.- Intolerable tearing and stretching in the
interior of the abdomen.- Sometimes single stitches through the same. -'Flat-
ulency, wind not passing freely off.
F100es hard , afterwards fluid, and very Qldent. - Burning and prickling be-
fore evacuation. - Burning around the anus. - Tenesmus, and after. a few
minutes fluid excretions mi'led with blood and slime. - Dysentery......._ Tenesmus
with burning heat in the anus. - Piles, swollen and sore.- Copious discharge of
blood, with vehement pains in the small of the back.- Drawing stitches or tear-
ing from the anus into the small of the back and the abdomen. - H~emorrhoidal,
painful complaints.
Urine scantily discharged, very rad. - Sometimes a painful burning in the
neck of the bladder, while urinating.
Menstruation reappears very copious. - Abortus, succeeded by copious secre-
tion of bloody slime, with pressing and tearing in the uterus.- Metrorrhagia.
Breathing somewhat close.- Coughing up blood.
g. Alumina.
AlntiftiNWt tntffl•t••· - Pure cl•f· - Germ. 1'ho,..rth. Argi/1•.
Duration of f!ifect: often more than 40 days.
Antidotes: Bryonia, Camphors, ChRmomilla, Ipecacuanha.
Used as antidote for: poisoning with lead.- Solanin1
It answers well after: Bryonia, Lachesis, Sulphur.
After it succeedl well: Bryonia.
Predominant f!ifects: Rending p&.ins, especially in the limbs. - Comtriction rif'
internal organs. - All 1ymptoms are aggravated by eating potatoeB. - Symptoms
rectt.rring every 48 hour~.- Many •ymptoms, which do not appear at night or·
forenoon, arise after dinner and continue till the evening.- Symptoms which
appeared in the morning and evening, are diminished after dinner. - Symptoms
appearing in the afternoon decrease when others arise. - Different complaints
caused by vexation.
E.xcellive langu.ot:; iatigue even after alittle walk, by 8ptaking.- Relaxation
of the whole body, with inclination to lie down, by which the weaknees is aug-
mented.- Frequent stretching, when llitting.- Trembling and jerkl of'the head
and extremitie1.- Cramp1, altern4ting with laughing and weeping.- Unpleasant
lack ofheat ofthe body.
Tuberous tumors on the skin, with brown areola's around them.- Scales ex-
uding serum. - Herpe• with itching in the evening.- Rhagades (cutaneous
fissures), Panaritia.- Harsh dry nails.- Renewal of the cutaneous eomplaints at
every full- and newmoon.
4
Digitized by Coogle
38. Alumina.
~s 1Jifore mitlniglat.- ~Tat ti«p, restleas, often ctilltiD'bed by atart-
ing. - Profound mep, but not•refru~W!tg. - Moay tlreflfU, at flliglat, eome
anxio118, othel'8 with violent appreheosion of thievee.- Somnambolil!lm.
ChiUinese even near a tDaNn stove, and ac night; one cannot become warm in
bed.- Fever in the evening, with pret~Jiling chills.- Shivering, chiefly internal,
increlll!ed by drinking warm liquids; while an external wannth ill felt, particularly
in the cheeks; with stretching, groaning, siek stomach, trembling and irritability.
Dl humor. - Involuntary whining. - Anxiety and fearfulneu. - Timoroua-
' ness. - Easily to be frightened. - Gloomy and dejected countenance. - Peevish-
ness ·and avel'8ion to labour. - Fretfulnese and caprice. - Easily to 1Je displeased.
Weakness ofmerrwry.-Inability to think coherently.-Want of recollection.-
Constantly misapplying terms. - Great vivacity of the mind, alternating with
dullness of thoughts, sight, and hearing.- A sensation, as if the faculty ofself-
-consciousness were out of the body.
Vertigo in the morning, which often induces an apprehension of fiilling, with
a burning sensation in the nape. -:-Intoxication after smoking tobacco.
Headacl!e, as if the hail'8 were pulled up, or as ifcrushed.- Darting pain in
the brain, toith nomea and inclination to vomit. - Heavine88 of the head, with
paleness of the face, and feebleness.- Compressing headache.- Throbbing and
pulsation in the head.- Congestion of blood to the eyes and nose, with aching
pain in the forehead and bleeding at the nose. - Headache increased by walking
in the open air.
External itching on the forehead.-Painfulness ofthe scalp, as ifit were sore.
- Moist scabs on the temples.
Violent pressing in the eyes, which prevents them from opening. - Aching,
as if sand were in the internal canthus, in the evening.- Burning in the eyes;
they are closed by matter at night, and tearful in the daytime. - Sensation of
coldness in the eyes, on walking in the open air.- Dimness, it is like mist before
the eyes; glittering. - Strabism ofboth eyes.
Stinging in the ears.- Throbbing earache at night, in the morning stinging
.with excretion of a greenish matter; and swelling of the auditory pa888ge' and
the eustachian tube.- Heat and redness of one ear.- Swe~ng of the eal'8 and
discharge of 1patter from them.- Humming in the e81'8, and crackling, when
swallowing and particularly when chewing.
The nose red; swollen; a furuncle on it.-Small red veins appear on the nose,
as if injected.- The sense ofsmelling weakened.
A sensation, as if the white of an egg were dried upon the skin of the face.-
Feeling of heaviness in the face.- Tearing and pricking pain in the cheek-bone.
- Flushes of heat in the face. - Furuncle on the cheek. - Tuberous tumours,
uneven fumps, in the face.- Copper-like.redness on the cheeks. -Swelling of
the underlip.-Eruption on the lips.
Toothache, when chewing, or in the evening in bed; or during pregnancy.-
Drawing-, racking pain in the teeth, which extends to the zygomatic bone, fore-
head, and temples.- The teeth seem to be too Jong.-Tubercles on the gums.-
The lower jaw seems to be shorter.
The mouth, tongue; palate, and the gums ache as if sore, which almost
o 1tizedbyGoogle
Alumina. 89
prevents eating. - Drynees of the mouth. - .Putrid offensive odour from the
mouth.- Spitting of bloody slime.
Pain in the throat, ioorea&ed in the evening an4 at night, and relieved by
warm eating and drinking, likewise leellened in the forenoon. - Pain in the
throat, stinging or contracting, upecially when BtDIJllowing. - Difficulty in BtDIJl-
lowing, as if camed by a slight stricture of t1te tB8ophagm. - Drynees in the
throat.-Copious thick clammy slime in the throat, eepeeially in the evening and
at night, which can only be thrown out by hawking. •
• Taste sweetish or bloody.- Harsh and astringent taste: - The appetite .alter~
nates, sometimes too strong, at other times deficient.- Food has no taste; a
particular aversion to meat. - Potatoes are indigestible and cause griping in the
bowels.
Eructation; a chronic inclination to it.-Acrid, sour eructation and heartburn.
-Frequent namea, and inclination to vomit, particularly when speaking, on
entering the room after taking a walk, or in the morning.
Stomach-ache in the evening.- Sensation of contraction in the stomach, ex-
tending to the breast and throat.- Sorenees in the pit of the stomach, and the
hypoehonders, principally when stooping. ·
Pains in the liver, when stooping.-The region of the liver sore'to the touch,
with darting pains; it prevents the lying on the right side•.....: Pain in the kidneys.
Griping in the bowels, in consequence of cold.- Colic-like racking in the
bowels.- Lead-Culic.- Cutting in the beUy, 'chiefly in·the morning, moderated
by warmth.- Stitching pain in the abdomen, extending to the breast. - Protru-
sion, incarceration of the inguinal herni.e. - Herpetic eruption in the inguinal
region.
F.eeee indurated and inconsiderable, and pains in·the anus. - Costiveness. -
Difficult evacuations, on account of the inacti1!ity of the entrails. - Copiom dis-
charge of 1lime pa~ling with the ftllce•, attended with colic. - Diarrhrea with
visceral pains.- Discharge of blood with or after the stool.-Burning and itching
on the anm.- H.emorrhoidal tumours. - Pressing and stinging in the perin.eum.
Efforts to urinate, with a copiom aqueO?U discharge, with burning.- Urinat-
ing at night.- Urine in smaller quantity, with a red gravelly sediment.
Excited or suppressed 1exual paslion. -Nocturnal erections and involuntary ·
seminal emillion~. - Discharge of prostatic fluid in consequence of a hard bound
stool-Chronic yellowish gleets.- Seminal emissions increase the complaints.
Memu in too nnall quantity, too early and of too short duration. - Cessation
ofmenses.- Before and during the meme1, pains in the abdomen and other parts.
-Excoriating acrid leucorrhaa, before and after the menses.- Leueorrhrea of
an albuminous fluid, sometimes resembling the washes of meat.- Leucorrhrea
produces a soreness on the parts.
Disposition to catarrh ofthe mne.- Flowing from one nostril, while the other
is cheeked.
Catarrh of the throat and breast, atten~ed with a scraping sensation in the
larynx. - Sudden hoarseness and momentary failing of the voice, in the afternoon
and evening.
Cough with catarrh of the nose.- Dry rough, in the morning, succeeded by
Digitized by Coogle
40 Alumina. - Amanita.
expectoration. - Dry luJclcing CQUKh, tDitll momentGry interrwpted lmatling «
attended with pain in the head and the nape.
Difficult respiration, when Bitting.- Asthmatic afteetion.
Pre.wre on th£ chest, at night.- Conltriction of the breMt, when ICoopiog. -
Palpitation ofthe heart; Bin8'le throbs ofthe heart.- Itching in the breut.
The mtall ofthe back GChu, Gl ifbeaten, when resting. - Stinging pmn i11 the
bGCk; seDI8tion 81 if it were beaten, and sometimes, u if piereed with a hot iron.
The arms ache, when hanging down, or when extended. - Ttaring in the
srm, from the shoulder to the fingers. - Burning, 81 if with a hot iron, on the
arms, elbows and fingers.- Disabling heaviness in the arms.- Moist eeabe on the
fore-arms.-Pungent paina in the wrist, when working.-The skin of the hands
furfuraceously pooling off. - Rhagades in the hanth.- Gnawing p~Un under the
fingernails.- Panaritia.
The legs torpid, benumbed and asleep, at night.- Tearing in all parts of the
lower extremities.-The legs very heavy.- Drawing pains in the knee&, when
ascending steps.- Tt>nsion in the calves of the lt>gs, when walking; and a
crampy sensation, when putting one leg over the other, and stepping upon the
toes.- The joints of the feet ache, 81 if wearied, on sitting.- Cold feet.- Bur-
ning seDI8tion on the lower side of the toes.
10. Amanita.
Duration ofeffect: about 40 days.
Antidotes: camphora, cotfea tosta, pulsatilla, vinum.
·Predominant effects: Cramping ache in the muscle8, on sitting. - Rending
pain, especially in the limbs, continuing at rest, on sitting or standing, disappear-
ing by motion.- Complaints ap-pearing crosswise, viz.: on the right arm and left
leg and vice versa.- One feels best, when walking slowly.
Great tenderness of the whole body; the slightest' touch creates considerable
p~in.- Soreness of the arms and legs and all joints, after a moderate motion.-
BOring pains in all parts of the body, pnrti~ularly in the bead, attended with
drowsiness and lassitude, on sitting.- Powerlessness and heaviness of the limbs.
- Trembling. - Convulsions.- Epileptic fits with powerful motions. - Great
sensibility from the open air.
Pungent itching on different spots of the skin, inducing to scratch. -Itching,
burning and redness on different pctrts, like chilblains.- Millet-like eruptions,
whitish and thick, with a vehement itching.
Diurnal sleepiness, especially after dinner. - Vehement yawning, causing
giddiness.-Not refreshed from sleep and unwilling to rise from bed.
· Great chilliness, on exposure to the air, or when the bedclothes are raised up,
sometimes even when the limbs are warm. - Vehement shaking chills through
the whole body, with a warm face and cold hands, not succeeded by lteat or
thirst.- Perspiration on moderate walking or with the least exercise.
' Disinclination to speak.- Aversion to labour.- Inclination to rhyming and
prophecying.-Timid insanity.-Fearless destructive fury, with great bod~y power.
Digitized by Coogle
Amanita. 41
Vertigo, u iffrom into.ricGtion, upecially in the open air, or in the morning,
or when closely thinking. '- Momentary giddin@IS from. strong sunlight, 88 ifin·
stantly falling.
Headache, when lilting.- Dull pain, particularly in the forehesd, with incli-
nation to close the eyes.- Drawing headache, chiefly in the morning, when QIU)ak·
ing, extending towards the eyes and the root of the nose. - Pain in the right
side of the head, as if a·nail was for.ced into it.- Boring headache.- Agitation
in the brain, with a sensation, 88 if it were dilacerated.-Racking in the left'half
of the brain, attended with a muddled head. - Knocking in the vertex with
almost furious desperation.
Sensation of an external pressure on the left temporal bone, extending deep
into the brain, increased by t~uching of the hairs, and pressing upon the scalp;
attended with exeeedingly low spirits.- Sensation ofice-coldness on the head.-
Twitching on the forehead and temples.
Pressing or itching in the eyeti.-Burning in the internal canthi (comers ofthe
eyes), with soreness by touching. - Secretion of yellow, white matter in the
canthi, cementing the eyelids together.-The orifice of the eyelids is contracted.
- Quivering on the eyelids and one cheek. ~ Unpleasant twitching in the eye
with a squeezing pain. - WeakneBB of the eyesight and dimness. - Myopia. -
Diplopia.-Brown spots, like musketoes before the eyes.
Acute pain in the right auditory passage, produced and increased by cold air.-
ltching ofthe ears with redness and burning, as ifchilblains.- Buzzing in the ears
The internal surface of the nose very sensible.-Itching on and in the nose.-
Soreness and inflammation of the internal surface of the nose. - Bloody mucus,
when blowing the nose, and epirJtaxis.- Delicate sense ofsmelling.
Stinging and rending pain in the jaw•, the cheeks and the chin. - Itching,
redness and burning of the cheeks, 88 after freezing. - Quivering and pulsation
in the cheeks.-Blueish lips.-Ardent cracks on the upperlip.-Splli!IDodic draw-
ing in the chin and lower jaw.
Toothache, mo1tly ra_cking and increa~ed by cold.- Swollen, painful, easily
bleeding gums.
Mouth and palate aching as if sore. - SoreneB8 of the tf)ngue. - Yellowisb
aphthre on the tongue (after meals), with a sensation , as if the epidermis would
peel off.-- Abscess onthe frenulum.- Offensive smell out of the mouth; 88 after
eating horse- radish. - Froth before the mouth. - Discharge of an acrid saliva ·
from the mouth.
Taste in the mouth continually offensive, insipid and stinking.- Bread is not
relished.-Anorexia with hunger.- AttackB ofmdden appetite, especially in the
evening.- After eating,' pressure and fulness in the stomach and the abdomen.
Vacant eructation, alternating with hiccups.- Eructation with n tru<te of the
food which has been eaten.- Sick stomach, with wtting visceral pain.- Nausea
and vomiturition immediately after eating.
PreiBUre on the stomach and in the scrobiculus cordis, afkr eating.- Crampy
pain and pressing heaviness in the stomach.
Stitches in the region of the liver and spleen when breathing.- Pinching and
cutting pain in the abdomen, u ifdia"haa wouldfollow.- Noise and grwnbling
in the bowels.- Expulsion ofmuch wind ofa fetid garlic-like stench.
Digitized by Coogle
42 Amanita.- Ambra.
Constipation sueeeeded by a luJrrl dark colored tlUcluJrgt.- Diarrhooa-like,
f111PPY ltaoh, tDitA vehement pairw in the abdomen before, duririg and after the
stool, and attended with a di6clwrge of much tDind.- Painful retraction of the
sto~aeh and abdomen, with diarrhrea.- Crawling on the anus.
The discharge of urine seldom and in small quantity.- Light, lemon colored
~rine.- Discharge ofa viscid slime from the urethra• .
Great excitation ofthe 1ezual pa11ion tDith ajlabbg penil. - Insufficient semi-
nal discharge during the eoitus.-Afterthe coitus night,.sweats and great exhaus-
tion.- Itching on the genitals. -Drawing in the testicles.
Aggravated menstruation.
Frequent sneezing without catarrh. - Dry nose.- Frequent dropping ofdear
water from the nose, without catarrh.
Expectoration ofsmall lumps of slime almost without cough.
Short breathing and asthmatic affection, which makes walking difficult, even·
when walking slowly.- Difficult breathing, as if the breast were surcharged with
blood. - Constriction of the chest, with inclination, to draw long and frequent
breath.
Pain in the breast, especially in the pit of the stomach, as if the internal parts
• of the breast would be drawn together.- Stitches in the breast.-Painful palpita-
tion of the heart.-Excessive perspiration on the breast, at night.- Itching of the
nipples.
The small of the back, the neck and back as ifbeaten and wrenched, especially
when sitting,and lying.- Painful weakness ofthe muscles ofthe back. - Disabling
pains in the loins, increased by walking and standing.
The arms weakand powerless.-Disabling ofthe upper-arm caused by writing.
-Burning above the elbows and on the fore-arm, succeeded by small white pimples
attended with scaling of the epidermis.- Trembling haruls. - Rending in the fin-
gers.-Crampy pain in the ball of the thumb.-Torpor in the fingers, with great
sensibility to cold in them. - Itching burning and redness ofthe fingers, as after
chilblain:,;.
The legs heavy and.weary, especially the thighs.- Racking in the lower extre-
mities, as if in the marrow, chiefly when sitting and standing, alleviated by exer-
ciSe. - Painful sensation in the hips, when walking. - Drawing pain in the legs.
..,--On standing weakness ofthe legs, which occasions reeling of the body.- Stin-
ging pain in the feet and toes.-Rending pressure in the ankles.-Itching redneiS·
nnd burning of the toes, as after chilblains.·
ft. _
Ambra.
Duration ofeffect: about 40 days.
Antidotes: camphors, nux vomica, pulsatilla.
Used as antidote for: staphysagria.
Predominant ejfect1: Tearing or cramping pain in the mtUClel. - Twitching
and spasm1 in the muscular parts. - Pressing.pains in internal organs. - Single
_DigitizedbyGoogle
Ambra.
limbs readily benumbed.- E:racerbation in the evening, also on lying and in the
warmth, diminution when taking a moderate walk in the open air, but relapeet!f
on sitting.
' A general drawing sensation in all the limbs. - Cutting in the hands and feet.
- Great agittJtion in the blood and pulsation through the whole body, with grellt
weakness, after walking in the open air. - Re1tleune11 and trembling. in the
whole body, attended with drowsiness, after talking a great deal. -Spasms in the
body, jerkl tJnd twitches in the limbs.- Lassitude chiefly in the morning, in the
bed, and at night when awaking. 7 Benummedneu tJnd torpor in the whole sur-
face ofthe body, principally in the morning. ' -
Itching tJnd burning on different spots ofthe skin, as if from scabies. - Scabi-
ous and herpetic eruptions reappear. - Dryness of the skin.
Sleepiness during the d~ty.- Nooturnal sleeplessness, without any cauBe.-
Disturbed sleep, caused by coldneBB of the body and twitching in all the limbs. -
Reveries in sleep, with an:rious dreams andfantasies. - Frightful startling when
falling asleep.
Chills, in theforenoon, with drowsy weariness, relieved after dinner. - Fever·
chills on single parts, succeeded by beat of the face. - Flushes ofheat, with anx·
iety about the prrecordia.- Continual perspiration in the daytime, especially on
the abdomen and the thighs, when walking. - Sweat, after midnight., or on the
affected side of the body.
DiBconsolate sadness. - An:riety, particularly in the evening. - Confused in
c;ompany.- Despair and weariness of life. - Aversion to talk and to laugh.-
E:rcitement, inquietude and hastiness during mental labour.- Odd spectral illu-
sions, with obscene representations playing befure the imagination.
Thoughtless.- Slowness ofcomprehension.
Violent giddineBB, when walking in the open air. - Giddiness, which induces
to lie down, with a sensation ofweakness in the stomach.
Head muddled and aching. - The head weak and sensible to cold. - Pressing
pain'in the head with fear of iru.anity. - Squeezing with dizziness, especially in
the forehead and occiput.- Oppressing pain in the forehead and vertex, with
heat ofthe head, burning in the eyes and pale face, every other day.- Rending
in the upperpart ofthe head, in the forehead , in one halfofthe brain, or behind
the ears.- Congestion to the head, when listening to music.
Soreness of the scalp, when touching tbe hair.~ The hair fulling off.
The eyes ache, as ifthey were placed too deep. - Pressing upon. the eyes, as
if they -vr.ere closed too firmly, with dijficult opening ofthem, in the morning. -
Intolerable tickling about the eyes. - Itching on the eyelid, as ifa sty were origi-
nating. - lnjltJmmation ofthe eyes and swollen veins in the conjunctiva.- Misty
dimne88 and darkness before the eyes.
·Acute earache. - Tension in the ears.- Crawling and tickling in the internet
part ofthe ear.- Dull hearing on one side. - BuzZing and ringing before the ears.
Oramp in the wings ofthe nose. - Dried blood in the nose. - EpisttJ:ris, espe-
cially in the morning.
Redness ofthe face, with heat.-Jaundiced countenance.
Flmhe1 of heat in the face. - Orampy trembling and tfiJitch.ing of the facial
Digitized by Coogle
Ambra.
mmcle•.-Pungent crawling itching in the face with eruption, on the forehead and
in the whiskers.-A red spot upon the cheek.-Cramp in the underlip.-Hot liJ*-
-Screwing together or asunder in the jaw.
Stinging shooting toothache, especially in cariotu teeth, and chiefly in tlu~ open
air.- Drawing toothacl~e, at night and in the daytime, increased by taking eome-
thing warm. -Bleeding qfthe lfU1118.- Swollen, sore gums.
Dryness in the mouth, in the morning, when awaking, with a sell88tion of
numbness on the tongue and lips.-Pricking and cracks in the mouth.- Vesicles
in the mouth With a burning pain.- Sore knots under the tongue. - White or
·gray-yeUow furred tcmgue.- Offensive smell out ofthe mouth.
Fain in the throat, as ifoccasioned by a plug, which prevents swallowing.-
Choking in the throat, when swallowing food. - Rawness and scratching in tAe
throat.- Much grayish slime in the throat, with choking and vomiting, when
hawking.-Hawking ofslime in the morning.
Taste flat or rancid.- Anorexia.- After eating, pressure in the throat-pit, as
ifsome food remained there.- After drinking milk, a sour taste in the mouth.
Vain efforts to eructate.-Frequent eructation, 10metime1 lOUr, sometimes with.
a taste of the food eaten. - Hellrtburn especially in the evening, or when walking
in the open air.- Nausea and vomiting.
Pressure in the stomach, sometimes crampy.- Burning in the stomach and
below the scrobiculus cordis. ·
Pain in the liver, mostly of a squeezing kind. - Pressing pain in the epi-
gastrium and hypogastrium.- Heaviness in the abdomen.- Tension and injiaticm
ofthe abdomen after eating or drinking.- Compressing pain in the abdomen, some-
times in the morning.- Cutting pain in the bowels, in the evening, after midnight,
and in the morning in bed, with diarrhcea. - Soreness of the abdominal muscles,
when coughing or turning the body. - Sensation of coldness on one side of the
abdomen. - Twitching in the abdominal muscles, in the evening. - Obstructed
flatulency.- Colica flatulenta, after midnight.
Constipaticm. - Fruitless efforts to evacuate, with fearfulness and insufferable
apprehension of the approach ofothers. - Irregular, interrupted stool, after only
every other day.- Soft, lightbrown stools (diarrhrea).-After evacuation, pres-
surein the abdomen. - Discharge of blood with the stool. - Hromorrhoidal tu-
mours.-'fickling and itching in the anus and rectum.
Diminished secretion of urine.-Sudden effort to urinate, in the morning after
rising.- Augmented secretion ofurine, chiefly at night and early in the morning.
-Yellow-brown, turbid urine, with a brown sediment.'- A reddish cloud in the
urine.- Bloody urine.- Sourish offensive smell of the urine.- Burning in the
orifice ofth~ urethra.
On the genitals, itching with a vehement voluptuous sensation, withoJit exter-
nal excitement-Burning in the region ofthe seminal vesicles.- Erections in the
morning, without a voluptuous sensation, ~ttended with numbness and diminished
sensibility of the external genitals.
Burning pain as ifsore, and itching on the female privy parts.- Oaritis.- Dis-
charge ofblood 4;luring the intervnls.-Menstruaticm too early.- During the men-
struation, pressing in the leg and blueness ofit, caused by varices.- Leucorrhrea.
'
istrt I 8i5 ?tdftt >z+
. DigitizedbyGoogle .
'M' 7 · $ t ttte·lllit +~ -- __ __________
Ambra. - Ammonire carbonas. 45
Frequent sneezing. __. Dryness and obstruction of the nose, with sorenesa.-
Cheeked catarrh of the nose.- Lingering suppre88ed catarrh of the no~.
Hoarse, rough voice, and much thick slime in the trachea.
Short breath. - Asthmatic complaints in children or scrophulous persons. -
Offensive breath, in the morning, when awaking.- Whistling in the trachea.
Cough with catarrh and expectoration of white saltish slime. - Nightcough .
catued by vehement tickling in the throat. - Evening-Cough, with a pain below the
ribs of the left side, as if there &Omething :would be pulled off. - Spasmodic cough
with eructation and hoarseness.- During cough a pressing pain in the temples.
· Painful oppression of the chest and in the back. - Pressure in and upon the
bre,zst, es!pecially in the region ofthe heart. - Sensation of rawness in the breast.
-Nocturnal shaking and trembling in t~e chest.-Palp\tation of the heart, when
walking in the open air, with paleness of the face and pressure in the breast as if
from a lump.-Rheumatic pain in the external breast, as ifbeaten.
Stinging pain in the small of the back.- Stiffness in the small ofthe back, after
sitting.- Heavine88 in the back and a pain as ifthe intestines wO'Illd be pressed to-
gether.- Rheumatic pressure and drawing in the nape and the back.
The ar~ easily}all asleep, when lying upon them, especially at night, with a
•ensation ofnumbnl!88; sometimes also when carrying something.- Rending and
disabling, drawing, wrenchingpainintheslwu.lder-joints,elbows,fore-arms a11d hands.
-Trembling ofthe arms.- Pain in the bone on the elbow-knuckle when touched.
-Spasm in the hands, when grasping.- Benummedness of the hands, at night,
and when carrying something.- Continual coldness of the hands.- Drawing and
tearing in the.fingers.- Contraction of the fingers. -In the evening, attacks of
trembling in the thumb. - Weakness of the fingers at night. - Shrivelled tips of
the fingers, in the morning.- Itching herpes between the fingers.
The legs as ifbenumbed, with an infirm step.- Heaviness, tightness and lax-
ness of the legs. - Spasm in the legs, and at night, in the calves. - Rending in
the legs.- Sorenesa in the bend of the knee; iri the evening particularly painful.
-Painful spots on the shinbones.- Tingling (vibration) in the calves and the
feet. - Coldnesa of the legs and Jeet. - Arthritic pains in the joints of the feet
and balls ofthe big toes. - Stiffness in the joint of the feet.- Pain in the soles as
ifsore, when walking. - Burning in the soles of the feet. - Swelling of the feet.
-Itching in the interior part of the soles, not extinguishable by scratching.-In-
tolerable stinging in the chilblains on the toes. - Corns ache as ifsore.
12. Ammonire carhonas.
Duration ofe.lfects: about 40 days.
Antidotes: camphora, sulphuretum calcis.'
Pf'edominant e.lfects: Stinging and tearing pains. - Wrenching pain in the
limbs; the tendons contracted as if too short.- The right side of the body more
affected, than the left. - Exacerbation in the evening.
Restlessness in the whole body in the evening. - Inclination to stretch out the
extremities.-Excitation by speaking too long and hearing, too much talk. -Great
Digitized by Coogle
46 Ammoni:c carbonas.
weaknees, lusitude and soreneu of the limbe, which induces lying down, espe-
cially in the evening and when walking in the open air.-WMt.ing ofthe body.-
Great sensibility to the cold.-Aversion, to walk out.
Vehement itching here and there, and after scratching burning veeiclea and
pimples. -·Lingering miliary eruptions.- Summer-freckle•.- Warta.- Conu
with a burningJ slinging and tearing pain. - Ganglia. - Galling ofthe 1km on
young children.-Tumefuctions of the glandl. - Incurvation of bones.
8leepine88 in the daytime.- Late sleep and sleepleuneu, especially when late
going to bed.- Nightmare, when falling asleep.- Nausea and agitatiOn of the
blood at night.-Frequent frightful awaking and difficult falling asleep again.
Attacks ofchills, during the evening.-Vehement shaking chills before sleep.
-Feverheat in the head and cold feet. ,
Sadness with lamentation and fearful an.t:iety, mostly diaappearing in the
evening.-Anxiety with weakness and nightmare.- Fearfulness.-Wearinet111 of
life. - Peeviahnet111 in the morning. - Diltemper caused by cloudy weather. -
Peevish and angry.- Obstinate and disobedient.- Exceedingly merry.
Absence of mind. - Forgetfulneu and abstraction of mind. - Misapplying
words, miawriting and misreckoning.- Diminished faculty ofthinking.
Vertigot when sitting, or reading, or in the evening, sometimes IDith natUeG.
HeQdache, with lick 11tomach, or in the evening, after walking in the open
air, or after eating.- Chronic headache.- Pain as if from an abscetl8 in the head,
on moving, or pressing upon. - Urging, hammering and knocking in tAe 1&elld
tJnd outpreslling pain in the forehead, Q/1 if the skull would fly open. - Piercing
through the brain.- Sensation, as if the brain were looee in the head.
The.hair falling off.
Burning in the eyes, with shunning light in the morning.- Sensation ofcold-
ness in the eyes.-Hordeolum (sty).- NocturnaJ cementing of the eyes by mat-
ter.- Dried matter on the eyelids.- Inability to move the eyes. -Glittering dim-
ness.-Myopia.-Cataracta.-Diplopia.-Biack spots and 1treaks of light before
the eyes.
Buzzing in the ears at night. - Humming and tinkling before the ears. -
Dysecoia, with itching and 11Uppuration of the eOI'.- Hard tumefaction of the
parotis.
The tip of the nose heavy, as if from congestion, when stooping.- Itching
'and blains on the nose.- Purulent discharge out of the nose.- Epistazis in the
m9rning, when washing and after dinner.
The face Q/1 pale Q/1 death and bloated.- Cracks on the cheek, from the upper-
lip to the ear.- Knacking in the joint of the jaw, when chewing.- Itching erup-
tion on the face and on the body, with swollen jugular glands.- Summer-freckles
in the face. -Furuncle on the cheek. - Herpetic eruptions about the mouth on
the cheek and chin.- Dry rMped lips, with burning.
Toothache, mostly drawing, or racking, or stinging as ifan abecess and some-
times extending to the ear and cheek, when compreslling' the teeth, or in the
evening, or on exposure to the air, lik~wise during menstruation. - Tedioua
11tinging pain in the teeth. - Inflammatory 8tOeUing and auppuratioo. of the gum
and liability, to bleed easily.
DigitizedbyG ogle
Ammonire carbonas. 41
'
SweUing ofthe mouth on the internalBUrface ofthe cheeb. - Eruption of blis-
ters in the mouth and on the tongue.
Pain in the throat, in the morning and evening, 88 ifa bit were sticking in it.
-Soreness and scratching in the throat.-Swollen tonsils with impeded swallow-
ing.- Sp88modic.contraction in the anterior jugular muscles, after drinking.
Taste of blood in the mouth. - Bitter taste, especially in the morning, after ·
awaking.- Continual thir1t.- Inability to eat, wi,thout drinking. -Strong hunger
and appetite.-Want of appetite in the morning.- Soon satiated when eating.-
Aversion to milk. - Excessive inclination to sugar. - Heat in the face and dizzi.
ness, when eating.- After eating, 1cratchy heartburn, with nausea.
Suppression or '\'&cant eructation, sometimes sour. - Eructation with a long
remaining taste, of what has been eaten.- NaUIIea and vomiting after every meal,
with pressure in the pit of the stomach.
Pre31ure in the itomach after eating, IIIith namea and sensitiveness in the pit
of the stomach. - Contracting pain in the pit of the stomach when stretching.-
The clothe' occuion a prt~BUre upon the 3tomach.
Burning pain in the liver.- Boring stitches in the liver, when sitting.
Visceral pain with diarrhrea. - Contracting cramp3 in the abdomen with nau-
sea and waterbr88h.- Concussive pain in the hypog88trium, when stepping.-
UneMinees in the abdomen.- Pneumatocele in the left inguinal region.- Painful
flatulent colic.
Comtipation.-Difficult evacuation.- Tardy hard 1tool in smalllumps.......:Soft
flux-like stools, preceded and succeeded by cutting visceral pain.- Discharge of
blood from the anu3 during the 3tool and other time3. - Itching on the anm. -
Hmmorrhoidal tumours, sometimes bleeding.
Urging upon the bladder, with diminished discharge of urine.- Frequent,
copious urinating ,especially in the evening. - Nocturnal urinating and inconti-
nence in tl'e bed.
Excessive sexual passion, without voluptuous thoughts or ercctions.-Absence
of sexual passion and aversion to the other sex.- Constriction, drawing and
heaviness in the testicles,.with frequent 3eminal emissions. -Discharge of pros-
tatic fluid after a ha~ stool.
1 Mcn5truation in too 1mall a quantity and too short, with a discharge of black,
acrid blood.- Menstruation, aggravated, or too early. - Before and during men-
struation, pains in the small of the back and in the bowels.-During the menstru-
ation, pressure upon the uterus, cutting pain in the bowels, rending in the back
and genitals, and urging to lie down. - Sadness during the menses. - Aqueous
discharge from the uterus. - Acrid, corrosive, or aqueous, burning leucorrhrea.
~Sterility by me1utruation ofa too .mall quantity.
Tedious catarrh or dryness of the nose. - Checked catarrh and obstruction of
the nose, especially at night, almost suffocating.
Roughness and hoarseness, which nearly prevents speaking.
Cough with hoarseness, while the body is warm.- Dry cough, 88 ifcaused by
f~ther-dust in the throat.-Tickling cough with expectoration. - Cough only at
night; or only in the daytime; or in the evening before falling aaleep; or in the
.~
Digitized by Coogle
48 Ammonire carbonas. - Ammonire murias.
morning at :1, 4 o'elock.-When coughing stitches in the back.-Hcemopty.U with
violent affection of the breast.
Short breathing, especially when ascending steps.- Asthnwtk affection, with
palpitation of the heart, especially after exercise.
Stitches in the breast, when breathing and singing. - Stitches in the Bides of
the breUBt, when stooping and walking, and especially at night in the lrft side,
with inability to lie upon that side.- Congestion to the breMt, after writjng.-
Buming in the breast. --.,- Heaviness in the breast.- Hydrothorax. - Stitches in
the musculous parts of the chest. - Racking from the sides of the brelll!t to the
shoulder-joint.- Palpitation of the heart.
Drawing pain in the nape and the small of tile back. - Painful swelling of the
jugular and' axillary glands. - Drawing tightness in the back and sacral region.
The arms and fingers become torpid and deatl, at night, in the morning, and
when grasping something.- Rending in the joints ofthe arms, hands and fingers.
alleviated by the warmth of the bed. - Pain in the wrist, which formerly wu
sp'l\ained. - Attacks of trembling of the hands. - Swollen veins and blue hands,
after cold washing. - Scaling of the palm of the hands. - Hard cracked skin of
the hands. - Spasm in the fingers. - The fingers asleep. - The fingers become
bloated, when the arms hang down.-Swelling of the middle joints of the fmgers.
Tension in the legs, as if the tendons'were too short.-Contraction of the legs.
-Great weakness ofthe legs.-Pain in the hip-joints and thighs, U8 ifbeaten, in
the morning in .bed, relieved after rising and walking. - Cramp in the shinbones,
calves of the legs and feet.- Twitches in the knee and legs.- Drawing pain in
the legs, when sitting.-Rending.in the feet-joints alleviated by warmth in bed.-
Bu~::ning in the feet.- Stinging and soreness in the heel. -Swelling of the feet.-
Sweating of the feet.- Wrenching pain in the big toe; at night in bed, when mov-
ing.- Redness, heat, and swelling of the big toe in the evening, with pricking
pain, as from chilblains.
f 3. Ammonire murias.
'AttuJto,.ium ffturialicUM . - Oerm. Sol111t'alc.
Duration ofeffect: several weeks.
Antidote: camphora.
I '
Predominant effects: Tearing jerks, mostly in the limbs, as if in the bones,
and particularly in the points of the fingers and toes. - Burning and pressing, or
stinging and throbbing, like in an abscess, on many spots. - Tightne1s in the
joints, as ifthe tendons were contracted. ~ The right side more affected, than the
left. - Exacerbation of the pains (particularly in the extremities) in the evening
and at night; relieved in the open air.
Agitation of the blood in the body with anxiousness.- Dilabling weakneSI and
lassitude, particularly in the legs, with torpor, straining and drawing in the legs.
f!equent pricking and after scratching a rash,lik.e eruption.-Vesiculous erytp-
tion terminating with scabs. -The cuticle peeling offon different spot& '
Sleepiness in the daytime, with sluggishness and aversion to labour.- Early
sleepiness in the evening.- Sleeplessness before midnight.- Early awaking.-
Frightful, anzious dreams. -Nightmare.
Digitized by Coogle
Amlnonire murias. 49
~~~ and cAUl., cki£jly in tAe e11ening at 6 o'cloc"*.- ·Fever-chills, sueeeeded
by hea&, with a swollen, red laoe; thirst during chills and heat (during the whole
attaek).-General heat felt in a warm room, or after a rapid movement, attended
with a pricking sensation ofexternal heat on the breast.'- Sweat after midnight.
- Lingering, intermittent fever, with a yellowish hue in the face and shivering
from cold drinking.
Very fear:ful and peui11e, as if depressed by sorrow and grief, with a dupoli-
tion to 3/ted tear3. - lrk81Ylnim£s3 and imUfference,. with dieinclination to speak. -
Vexatious irritability. - Aversion to certain persons.
Dizziness and giddiness, di3appearing in tAe open air.
Semation offulne3s in the A.ead and.hea11ine11 in the forehead, especially in
ihe morning when rising. - Pressing in the forehead, towards the root of the
nose, with an impression, as if the brain were dilacerated.-Rending in the right
halfof the head and face. -Congestion to th~ head, accompanied with heat therein.
Burning in the eyu; chiPjly in the evening twilight, disappearing as soon as a
light is brought in; or in the canthi, when arising in the morning, with 3hunning
light, abating after washing.- Qui11ering in the eyelith.- Misty dimness.- Fly-
ing 3p0ts and 3peck8 bifore the eyes, during the daytime and in the evening, on ex-
posure to candle-light. - Yellow spots before the eyes, when looking at any thing.
Pi£rcing outward in the ears.- Boring and twitching in the ears. - Eruption
in the ears. - Running of the ears. - Disecoia. - Tinkling and buzzing ~fore
the ears.
Swe'lling of the nose, as from an ulcer, with bloody crusts in it, and tender-
ness to the touch.
Pain in tAeface, as iffrom rending in the facial bones.- Bumin,$' heat in the
face. -Ulcers in the corners ofthe mouth and ulcerous upper-lip.-Greasy shining
lips...:..._Dry, shrivelled, ,;.ackedlips.- On the under-lip burning spots, 11oid ofthe
epidermis. -Straining in the joint of the jaw, when chewing and opening the
mouth.- Swelling of the suhma.rillary glanth with a knocking pa~
Tearing toothache.- Swelling ofthe gums with stinging pain.
Burning 11esicles on the point of the tongue. '
Sore throat with a mnging pain when 3totJllotDi1!g.- Adhesive slime in the
throat, especially in the morning.
Bitter taste in the mouth, in tAe morning, with a bitter eructation and fearful-
ness;-Abeence of hunger and appetite.- Afler every meal, diarrh<ea with pain
in the bowels and extremities.
Eructation, f1103tly bitter or vacant.- Return of what has beeR eateR, or
rising ofbitter-sour water.-.Frequent 11ehement 1iccupping, attended with stitches
in the bl'e$8t.- Waterbrash ~r eating.
Drawing or gfiawing pain in the stomach, as iffrom worma.- Burning in the
stomach and scrobieulus cordia.
Stinging pain in the region of the spleen, in the morning when awaking, with
difficult breathing, which makes it neeel8llrY to sit up.
Distension of the abdomen.- Griping pain in the bo!Del8.- Tension and in·
tlation in the groin.-~on as ifswollen and suppurated in the inguina, when
to~h~ .
Digitized by Coogle
50 Ammonire murias. - Anacardiwn.
Constipation.-Hard, or freqneut lOA lltoola.- Dianbc:ea with IOI"t!llell in the
beHy and 8811111Ulon, u if beaten.- Poll'IICeCIQ elillly diarrllaa.- Dillcbarp of
blood with the feeea-&fere tiw llooU, prnn. fl6out the....Z.-Bmaning like a
eore upward Ja die rectum, "When litting.
I~ ..cretier& of wine, upeciGUJ tlwirtg 1M "'B'k- Reddilh, bright
urine, without any sediment.
Stinging and tbrobbiDg in the IIJiermatio cord.-Freq•eat ereet.ion&
Meme• too _.~g, tllith pre~ng contnJcting potu in tAe ~, tlae aural
region and tAe back.-During the meDIMl8 vomiting U¥1 diarrhcm, or reDding pain
in the feet.- Brown slimy leucorrhrea, discharged after urinating.
Sneezing with reeking pains from the nape to the ehouJder. - Catarrh with
obltruction oftlae *'"and lou ofsmelling.- Catarrh wkh efBux of a clear eor-
l'OIIive water.
HO.mtell toitA bum1Rg iA tAe lcryn.¥.
Severe rovgl m tAe ewening and at nigAt, when lying on the heck.- Drtl
coughjrMta tickling in tke tlroat, attended with llti&che~ in the left hypocboadrium
(looeening in the afternoon).
Asthmatic afteetion during manual labour.
Pain at the chest, 88 ifbeaten, when touched or not.- HUitMe• on tile cJaut,
with contracted breathing, espeeiaHy at night. - Preaure and ltitehes in the
breast.- Pulsating in. the breast, only while standing.
Paim in tAe ltJCf'al region, t11 ifbeaten, upecially at night, and when touched.
-Painful Btifthe&l!l in the amaH of the back, which prevents walking upright.-
Stitclael in tAe •houlder-blade•, wAen breathing.- Tearing in the ride• of the·
neck, and in the clavicles.- Stiff neck, with pain, from the neek to the shoul-
ders, when moving. .
The arms heavy and rigid, 88 ifmaimed. - Rnding in tile emu, u if in t1ae
bonel, at night. ---" Tearing in tAe •boulder•.- Swelling ofthe wri8ta with a tear.
ing pain.- on tAe "'""' pmtrde•, which become «;Vrfy.- ll4cking or •ti~,
throbbing, prickif~K, and pain 88 if from an ulcer in tlae point• of tAe finger~.­
The epidermil between the fingers peeling off.
Tightness in the hips and bend of the knees, aa if they were too short. -
Rending, stinging, wrenching pain in the hip.- Ctnllrfldion of the rinev!1 of tAe
bend oftAe knee.- I!Jti.Jfnu• of the knee-joint.- &ruling in tAe leg, 88 if in the
bone, during night.- Stinging pain in the calve& of the Ie«, when resting after a
long walk.- Insensibility and deadne88 of the legs.- Pain t11 if.frtma •n ulcer
and rending in tAe he&.- Stinking sweat of the feet. - Rending or .tinging,
beating and pricking in the tipt oftAe tou.
U. Anacardium.
&....., • .AA«a...U...
Duration ofeffect: Sometimes more than 30 days.
Antidote•: camphors, juglans1
Digitized by Coogle
Anaeardium.
Predomintt11t ~ece.: ~ ph, or tlull pru,;,g pain~, a iffrom 11
plug, or drawing preuure. - DuUAUI of1en1u, u of the eight, smelling, hear-
ing, &e. - Pt!Jt'iodictll compltrinu. - Many complaint.s NIIPfH'III' dtAring dinner
and return two holll'll afterwardl.-Many CODlplaints appear after meals.
Dull and heavy all over, from playing on .
the piano•..- Excee4ingly mtigued
from the leaet exercille.- Lalitude,- witA tremblmg tmd ueume t«akneu in the
extremities almoet increasing to lameotlll, Hpeeially in the knees.- Apoplectic
lllmene11.-Very eewlible to cold and draught of air, and 17erY et.Uily taking cold.
Burning itching, inereaaed by IIC1'8tebing.- Abunce Oftie natvral irritability
ofthe 1kin.- Pain in the sufferin« parts, u iffrom an abeceea.
Sopor day and night.- Early sleepineM in the evening, with disturbed sleep
at night. - Late fulling asleep. - Disgusting, dreadful or anorimu dretmw, with
eereeehing during the sleep.- Animated dreams, full ol reflexion and mental
exertion, with pain in the head, as if it were bruised, after awaking.
Great chillittUI and continuallhivering, even in a warm room. - Chill with
trembling and fever-shivering over the whole body, without thirst. -Shaking
chills with tearing pains, ill humor, and inquietude every third day. - lnterul
1en1atioft of chill with ezternal heat. - Heat .in the face, every afteruoon, at
4 o'clock, attended with nausea and languor.- Sweat in the daytime, when sit-
ting.- Night-sweats.
Hypochondria and melancholic hy1tery, sometimes after l!leiual clebaucheriee.-
UMOCiableness. - Anziety and (in the evening) apprehension& - Fear and mill-
trusting the future, with timidity.- Very easily displeased, contradicting, and
choleric. - Childish tmd awkward behaviour. - Laughing at eerioua things and
being serious at things laughable. - Self-contradiction. - JVicWIIUI and in-
humanity.-;- Irresi8tible inclination to maledictions.
The mind seems to be separated from the body.- Weakneu of fllemor'Y and
~. -Thoughtle88DeBL- Inability to recollect.
Muddled head.- GiddittUI, when walking, with an impreesion, aa ifall the
objects were at a greater distance or in a wavering motion.- Vertigo, with ap-
parent 1088 ofeye-eight, also when atooping~
Headache, in the occiput, from great noise, and when making false llteps.-
Headache causing giddineu and obstupe18ction, increased by touch.- The brain
aches u if bruised. - Racking pre~mre in the headfrom mental ezertion.- Pru-
ling headache, a iffrom a plug, eepecially ui the temples. - Conatricdng and
iftwllrd preuing pain in the head.- Rending pain~, particularly in the ~ht side
ol the head, extending to the 18ce and neck, immediately succeeded by buzziog in
the left ear. - Mooting in the head, in the evening, disappearing when 6sJ1ini
asleep.
Pain, as if a plug 10~ prelled upon the eye-bt.rlU.- Contraeted pupils.-
Weakneu and dimneu oflight.- Myopia.- Nete and dark apot8 befOre the eyes.
-The candle seems to flare, and surrounded by a halo.-The eyee 'fery eensible .
to the light.
Spannodic earacle, with rsckif~K and .n.gmg.-Prelling in the ean, u if
frOm a plug. - Itching in the ears and discbarge ofmatter &om them. - Painful
•welling ofthe external ear.-~ llearing.-Bu.ing &...t .-oaring in the ears.
Digitized by Coogle
52 Anacardium.
Epistaxis.- Anotmia. - Continual stench before the noee, as itfrom pigeonl-
dung or from burning sponge.
Pale face, with hollow sunken eyes, surrounded by livid eirelee.- Preeeure
upon the facial bOnes.- Rough, herpetic skin about the mouth, with a crawliDp;
itching.-Burning about the chin.
Jerking or racking toothache, by taking something very warm into the mouth.
- Straining or epaamodic drawing toothache, extending to ,the ear, Npecially in
the evening towards 10 o'clock.-The gums swollen and very eMily bleeding.
Offensive Bmell from the mouth, not obeerved by ont'llel£ - Heavineat' and
8Welling of the tongue, with obstructed speech.- White, rough tongue.- Con-
flux ofwater1n the mouth.
Agemia (losa of taste).- Fetid stench in the mouth.- Insipid taste ofall food.
-Excessive thirst, with obstruction of breath, when drinking.- Anorexia.-
Weakness of digestion, with preaaing fulnel!l!l and distension in the stomach and
abdomen; or sleepiness, aversion to labour and hypoclumdriac humor after ealing.
Waterbrash in the e¥ening, and vomiting, succeeded by 10urnese in the
mouth.- Nausea in the morning.
Pressure in the stomach, chiffly after eating. - Pressure in the pit of the
stomach, in the rooming when awaking. -Clucking in the pit of the stomach
and shaking in it at every step, after eating.
Pressure in the liver.
About the navel paine mostly preaaing or stinging,·increased by inspiration,
cough and external preaaure. - Hard abdomen. - Pinching flatulent colic, at-
tended with grumbling in the abdomen and efforts to evacuate.
Tenesmus.- Difficult discharge of the 110ft stool, caused by inactivity of the
rectum.- Discharge of blood with the stool. - Painful htemorrhoidtJ! tumours.-
Itching on the anus.-Moiature out ofthe rectum. ·
Frequent small discharge of a water-clear urine. - Urinating at nig~t.­
Burning in the glaus penis during and after urinating.- Turbid, clay-colored
urine.
Involuntary erection in the daytime.- Seminal emissions.-Abeence ofenjoy-
ment during the coitus. - Discharge of prostatic fluid, by natural, hut difficult
stool, and after urinating.
Leucorrluea with itching and excoriation on the privy parts.
Obstruction of the nose and sensation of dryness in it. - Tedious catarrh and
flow of mucus from the nose. -Vehement catarrh with catarrhal fever, accom-
panied with crampy tightness in the legs and the calves, with uneasiness about
the heart.
Roughness and rawness in·the throat, chiefly after eating.
Cough with crawling in,the throat and obstruction Qf breath. - Cough after
eating, with vomiting of what has been eaten. - Cough in the evening in bed,
with congestion to the h~d.- Concussive cough, like hooping-cough, mostly from
speaking - or at night. - Hacking cough with a purulent expectoration. -
H~emoptysis.- When coughing a stinging paiii in the side of the front and head.
-Yawning after the attacks ofcough. .
Short breath and asth!Jlatic affection;- Oppreu«m of the chest, which drivtlll
Digitized by Coogle
Anacardium. - Angustura.
ane out of the r~ into the open air. - Rattling in the trachfla, when lying on
the Bide.
Preuure in the breat, 88 iffioom a plug.- &itches about the heart, wbieh ex-
tend IIOIDetimee to the II1Diill of the back.- Inquietude about the heart.
Pain in the IHick, m tJfl4l bettDeen the alwultkr-bladu, ~ring aftll stinging,
or pressing. -Formication.~M~tween the shoulder-bladee. - Dull pressure upon
the shoulden, a iffrom a toeigh.t.- Stifthe~~~ of the nape. ·
wea~me.. ofthe arm~, attel)ded with a stretching pain.- Tremor of the arm
and hand.- Squeezing in the brachial musclee and bones, with weerin881J.-
Stinging and heavine~~~ in the fore-anh.- Racking ~p~~~m in the tDrilt, fMtacarptl6
and the finger-joint..-'- Sensation ofdryneae on the hands aDd fingers. - Clammy
sweat of the palma of the hand!!.- Denumbneae of the fingeJ'I!.
The Ugs stiff, tJB if BWathed, and viBited by a painful diBquiettule. - V'tbratioa,
jerking and drawing in the thighs and CJbcmt t4e knee, 88 if after an excei!Bive
fatigue fioom walking.- Dull pret!SUre in the thighs, at measured interVals.- Dis-
ability about the knee.- Itching emptio!!- about the knee, extending to the ealvet1
of the leg.- SpGBmOdic jerks and prenure in the legs, e!ipecially i~t the calves.-
Painful tension in, the calves, when walking and at night in bed , with wakeful-
neae.- Burning on the legs and solet1 of the feet.- Ooldfeet, eve~~ tt~hen tDalking,
and sometimes early in the morning.-The soles spasmodically contracted.
i 5. Angustura.
Bnpl...u,. ~,.,,.,.•. Will.!. G.Up•• nup•ri•. Bitar.
Duration ofeffect: a few days.
Antidote: coffea tosta.
Predominant effects: Cutting, or spasmodic, or presiing pains.- Lameness of
single limbs. - SpaBmB in musculom parts. - Knacking in the joints. - Caries.
Atony and a sensation, 88 if the marrow in the bones were curdled.-Rigidity
ofall the muscles, after sitting, in the evenigg, and a tension. therein, token tDalk-
ing. - Tetanus, the attacks of which mostly produced by touching, or even the
approach of others, or by swallowing oflukewarm water, or by_ noise, terminate
with blueneBB of the cheeks and lips, laborious, snorting reSpiration, or groaning
with closed eyet1.-Shaking of the whole frame from starlings along the spina, as
ifcaused by electric shocks. - Opisthotonus. . '
Exce~ve 11leepineBB in the evening, with sleeplessness before midnight. -Dis-
turbed dreamful sleep. •
In the evenip.g raised temperature of the whole body, especially of the cheekl,
attcBded with dizzine11 or preslling drawing in one side of the forehead, with
thirst.
Fearfulness and easily to be frightened.- Want of self-c~nce and purilltm-
imity. - lli humored, discontended and very easily displeased. - Ezaltation of
mind, particularly, when not employed with mental labour.
.Abstraction of mind and a kind ofdreaming while awake. - .z.&ntalllivccity,
especially in the afternoon.
I .
.' ., .
o,9itized by Google
Angustura.
Dizzy and muddled, 88 if after intoxication. - Dizzine., with a kind o(tea•
&ion or contraction in the head and knocking in the forehead.- Giddinee~, wheu
walking .in the open air, or ac1'081l a running water.
Hetldoche mostly prel!llling and with heat in theface. - The' brain ac~ as il
bruised.- Spasmodic Aeadache:- Boring in the temples. - The paine commence·
mostly in the evening-twilight and continue till fialliog asleep.
Sensation of numbnesa in the temporal mullllles, and temion in them, when
opening the jaws.- Quivering between the eyebrows, when reading.
Preuure in the eyu and a sensation ofbeiog fatigued by a bright light.- Sen-
sation ofaorenesa and drynesa inside the eyelids. - Rednesa, heat and burning ctf
the eyes with suppurativeeementing.during night.-The eyelith from apum IIMely
• opened. - Staring, protruded, motionlesa eyes. - Misty dimneM, 88 iffrom o~
city of the cornea.- Myopia.
Spasmodic pain in the ear. - Racking before and in the ears.- Sensation •
if something were lying upon the ear, or sticking in it.- Heat on the eara.-
Dullneu ofhearing.
· The internal part oftM not~e aching, 1111 ifexcoriated.
Blue countenance during convulsions.- Temion ofthifaeUJlmtUclu.- :!Jpa-
modic pain in the zygomatic bone and in the t'llMBeter•, increRI!ed by reet and de-
creased by moving the lower jaw.- Sensation ofheat in the cheeks, without ex-
ternal wannth, in the evening.- Trismus, tcith wide opening ofthe lips.
Drawing toothache (in the molares).- Knocking in the hollow teeth.
The mouth and lips very dry, without thirst.- Viscid, filthy slime in the mouth,
in the evening, with a continual inclination to drink.- White tongue with a sen-
sation of roughneaa. - Burning on the tongue and continual pinching on the
tip of it.
Taste bitter, especially after dinner and smoking tabaeeo. - Longing for cold
liquids or coffee. - Strong appetite and insatiablenesa, with avetsion to food.-
Ineffectual eructation.cauaea a sensation offulnesa in the breast.
Vacant eructation after eating:- Bilious eructation.
Qualmishness, during dinner. - Faintnesa, when walking in the open air.
Pain in the stomach, as ifa cutting soreness, when beginning to eat. - Spas-
modic pain in the pit ofthe stomach. - Cutting pain in the pit of the stomach a»d
the (right) hypochondrium, i,ncreaaed by moving the tr11ni.
Sorene88 in the right side of the abdomen. - Spasmodic visceral pain. - Pain
in the lumbar region, from inside outwards cutting. - Cutting pain in the hypo-
, gastrium, especially after taking warm milk:- Stinging pain in the abdomen.-
Vehement agitation and croaking in the bowel's, with tendency to diarrhrea.
Frequent, .thin, copious and feculent stools. - Slimy diarrlirea with cutting
visceral pain. - Pre88ure and sensation of contraction in the anus, with swelling
of the hremorrhoidal tumours and burnfng pricking; aecompanied with discharge
of a soft siool.
Frequent urging to ul'inate, with a small diScharge.- Frequent copious die-
charge, preceded by a preaaure ift the bladder and succeeded by strangury.-
Orange colored urine, which very soon 6ecomer cloudy.
Libidinous itching on the genitals..
Digitized by Coogle
Angustura.- Antimonii sulphuretum.
Hoal'lleneae, caul!ed by Dluch •lime in the trachea. - Low, nbkud woiee.
Dry cough, from tickling at the head of the larynx.- Veheme11t d.eep eougl'l
with ejection of yellow slime.
Intermitting re~~piration.- Hieooughing inspiration.- Ezce11ive "P1f'Uiion of.
tl£e cheat, when walking quickly or a&eending steps.
Oramp in the breast, 88 if from attacks ofsudden cold.- Painful senllitiveneu
of the breast, wheJJ. pressed upon. - Cutting •hodts or atitche• in the sidet1 of the
ehest and in the sternum.- Shocks about the hearC. - &lrrmg palpitation of tlwl
heart, when stooping. whilst ~tting, or in the evening mbed, when lying on the
left side. - A feeling of painful contraetion of the heart. - In the mmcle• ofthe
breast a pain a1 ifbeaten, when moving the body or the arms.
Pain in the nnall ofthe back, a1 ifbeaten, e-t~ecially at night and pa.rtieu1arly
towards 4 o'clock in the morning; disappearing after riaing.- Painful •tiffne••
bett.Deen the •lwulder-bladu aiul in tke neck, in the morni:Rg in bed and continuing
till noon.- Quivering in the muscles of the neck upon the shoulder.
The arm~ · weak and heavy, as if maimed, with stiflhess in the elbow-joint.-
Disabling weaknet!8 of the elbow-joints· and llands.- 8pa11111Jdic drawing in the
fore-arms, hands and fingers.- Cold fingers.
The thighs and legs a1 if beaten, heavy and weak, 88 if they would knack to-
gether in walking.~ Wrenching ljlalmOdic pain in the hip-iointl, leg• and feet.-
Squeezing dratoing in aU parts ofthe lower extremities.- Painful jerking stitche&
in the thigh and on the edge of the os ilium.-Lameness in the fuot.-joints.
1-6. Anlimonii sulphuretum.
Duration ofeffect: in acute cases not very long; in chronic cases about 60 days.
Antidotes: hydrargyrum, sulphuretum calcis.
After it, answers well: Pulsatilla.
----
Predominant effects: Rheumatic pains and i7!:flammationl ofthe tendltm.- A..-
thritic drawing·or. stitching straining pains, mostly in the extremities.- Gtutric
and biliotll complaints.- Exacerbation in the heat of the sun, afterdrinking wine,.
after eating, at night (and morning); remission at rest or in cool air.
Heavine88 in all the limbs.-Weakne88, whell awaking at night.-E1ft4Ciation.
-Troublesome corpulency (Polysarcia).- Oedemat0t11 stDeUing of the whole fxHlv.
- Apoplexia.
Itching especially on the Deck, breast, back and the limbe..- Eruptions, e~~pe-·
cially rising at night, or itching after becoming warm in bed, and preventiDg sleep.
-Eruptionslike miliaria and nettle-ra~h..- 7).maour1 ontlt~eliclell, u if from 1tings
ofinsects.- Eruptions like chicken?Jz, pricking when touched.- Pimples, filled:
wUh matte!', sueeeeded by yellowish and brown IC8bs.- Summer-freckles.-
MaeUbe hepatice. - Filtuloul ulcer1. - Corns 8IJtl horny excreeeeneet~. - DB-
colored, crippled nails.- WAite •welling.- Red, hot tumefiletiou.
Great drowsinea~ in the daytime. - Comtl~ iD the ~r:eDOOD.. -· Frfrhtful
awaking, at night.-Pee- irrit&UD~ dreams.:
Digitized by Google
Antimonii sulphuretum.
Intermittent 'lem-, with a predorqinant ga.tric or biliotu e~, with qtua(m-
ilhne., nau.tea, womiting, eructation, furred tongue, bitter tate ia 1M mclt.ltk.
and moderate thir1t. - Fever with diarrhrea, vomitin« and a cotting pain in the
bowels.- Tertitmfem-.- Warm pen!piration in the mol'Din«, every other day.
Anxious meditations about his tate. - Wecmne. qflife; with inelinatioo to
commit suicide by shooting or drowning.- EuiJy to be frightened. - mhumour
and peevishness.-The child will neither be looked at, nor touched.- Sentimen·
tal longing and amorous compleiion.- Mental dullnft!s aDd imbecility.-.buMity.
Sensation in the head, as after long labouring in cold.- Intosieation.- V~
tDith nau.tea.
Headache, after bath~g in a river. - Stunning headache, after smoking to-
bacco. - Pain in the forehead, as if the skull would fiy open. - Dull pain in the
fore- and upper-part of the head, increased by ascending llteps. - Rending in the
bead, alleviated by walking in the open air. - Boring outward in the forehead
and the temples.- Painful congution to the head, succeeded by epistaxis.
Pain on the os bregmatis, as if from swelling of.the periosteum.- Trouble-
some itching on the head, withfalling out of the hair.
Stinging in the eyu.- Red eyelith. - Arthritic i7fflammation oftAe eye•, with
itching .and cementing of the eyes by matter. - A moist &pot·on the external can-
thU&- Eye-gum in the canthi.-Dilatation ofthe orifice ofthe eyelids.-The eyes
sensible to the daylight. ·
Stinging pains in the ears.-Redness, swelling and heat of the ear.-Mooting
and whining tone in the ears.--: Deafne•s, as if a small leaf were put·upon the
ear.- Roaring in the ears.
Eruptions on the nose.-&reness ofthe nostrils and angles.-Cracked, scurfy
nostrils.
Heat in the tace, especially on the cheeks, with itching. - Red, burning, pu-
rulent eruptions in theface, with yellowish scabs. - Boils and vesicles in the face,
as if st~ by musketoea. - Honey-colored granUles on the skin of the tace. -
Eruption, like chicken-pox in the face and on the nose.-Soreness ofthe chin.-
Galled, Cf'IJCked comers of1M mouth.-Pimples on the upper-lip.- Dry lips.
ToothiJChe in 1wllow teeth, with pricking, jerking and digging towu-da the head,
renewed after every meal, increased by cold water, relieved in the open air.-
Jerking toothache, in the eve~ng in bed, and after eating. - Gnashing with the
teeth, in slumbering when sitting. - Bleeding of1M teeth and the gums, which
gape.
Dry mouth.- Increase ofsaliva on the tongue and in the mouth.- 8aliJidtion.
- White furred tongue. - SoreJleiiS of the edge of the tongue. - Velides upon
the tongue.
Pain in the throat, as if from a plug. - Obstructed swallowing. - Dryness or
roughneel or much vilcid slime in the throat. ·
Bitter ttUte.- Thirst, chiefly at night. - Tedioul 11nore.fta. - In the pit of
the stomach, especially in the morning, a feeling of hunger and emptine., which
is not to be removed by eatmg. .
Eructation with the ta1te oftD!wt has been esten, or with itching. - IWdog of
Watery fiuid in the throat.- Hiceupping, when amoking tobacco.
Digitize~by Coogle
Antimonii sulphuretum.. 57
Lotatlaing, nausea and i~i~wn to 1101nit, from a depraved stomaeh.-Naueea
from drinking wine.- Vomiting ofslime and bile.-Vomiting with diarrhrea and
great anxiety.
Cramp in the 1tomach. - Burning epaemodic pain _
in the pit of the stomach,
with despair and propensity to commit suicide by drowning. - Gastritis. - Pain
in the 1tomach, a1 if it were overfilled. - Painful soreness in the region of the
stomach, when touched. ·
Distemion ofthe abdomen, with semation offvlneBB, especially after eating.-
Vehement cutting vilceral pain..- Sensation of emptiness in the bowels, as if
after an excessive diarrhrea. - Pain from swelling and induration i~ the inguinal
region, when touched, or pressed upon. - Greatflatulency, with a rumbling and
grumbling noise in the bowels.
Difficult evacuation of hard freces. - Sudden calls to evacuate, with a quick
discharge of natural stool, with pressing.- Alternating diarrhrea and constipation
ofelderly persons.- Pappy stools.- Diarrhrea with.cutting pain. and mostly wa-·
tery discharge. - Diarrhrea of confined women. - Continual secretion ofa white
yellowish slime from the anus.- Dischargeof black blood from the anus.- Flow-
ing or blind piles with pricking and burning. - Ardent itching and cracks in the
anus. - Pressing (asunder) in the rectum and anus.- Burning Curu!lcle on the
perinreum.
Frequent urging to urinate, with a small discharge. - Copious, fretfuent uri-
nating ·with. discharge of much slime, and burning in the urethra, attended with
pains in the small ofthe back (Hremorrhoides vesicre).- Involuntary discharge of
urine, when coughing.- Gold-colored, thin, brown-red urine, sometimes with
small red granules.
Excitation ofthe sexual passion and excessive lustfulness.-Involuntary semi-
nal emissions.
Metrorrhagia.-Oaritis.- Sharp, corroding leucorrhrea.
Stoppage ofthe nose. - Great heat in the larynx, when exercising in the open
air.- Great weakness of voice.- Aphonia by overheating.
Cough with burning in the che!!t. - Dry shaking morning-cough.
Suffocating oppression of the chest and choking rheum. - Deep, sighing res-
piration: •
Stitches in the breast, when breathing d~ep as well, as when not.
A pain in the pectoralis major, as ifkicked, when raising the arm, or pressing
upon.
Spasmodic drawing in the muscles of the throat and the neck. - Rheumatic
pain. in the neck. - Miliary eruption on the neck, the shoulder-blades and behind
Ute ears. · ·
Rlleumatic pain. in the arms. - Reddish, itching blisters on the arm. - Red.
hot swelling of the fore-arm, with a pricking tension. -:- Drawing in the fore-arms.
fingers and finger-joints.- Arthritic pain in the finger-joints.- The skin under
the finger-nails smarting, which impedes their growth. '
Drawing in the lower £xtremitieB, pm:ticularly in the hip-joint.- Knots with a
red areola, on the buttocks and legs. - Stinging pain in the knees and shinbones..
- Painf\tl stiffness ofthe knee, which pre:vents the stretching out the leg.-White
Digitized by Coogle
58 Anti~onii sulphuretum.- Antimonii (& potass:c) tartras.
.aoelling on the lmk. - Boil on the knee, after rubbing it. - Tender&e~B ofthe
eoles, when walking on lltone-pavement.- BuJeUittg ad reti.M,. oftAe Aul, with
burning stings, increased by walking. - Corm on the eolee and great 'hornJ ~
crucencu therein, immediately behind the toee. - Preeeing pain in the eorna.-
Burning in the ball ef the big toe. - Homy excreecence under the nail of the
big toe.
17. Anlimonii (and potassre) tartras.
Ger.. Br~cl•rilltlriJI. 'l'arl•rt~• nulit:tlt.
Duration ofeffect: in acute casee not very long, in chronic C8lle8 a few weeks.
Antidotea: Ipecacuanha, puleatilla.
Uaed IJ8 antidote for: sepia.
After it, anawera well: Ipecacuanha, barytle carbona&
Predominant effecta: Rheumatic and arthritic drawing and tearing in the ez-
tremitiea, with a sensation, 88 if they were bftaten. - Contraction of the limbs.-
Twitching ofsingle muscles.- Convulaive atartinga; convuhiona. -Epileptic fit&
- 7remor of the limbs. - Stitching in the varices. - Ezacerbation IDhile sitting
doum 88 well, 88 in sitting, or when rising from the seat. - GIJ8tric and biliotw
. complainta.- Inflammation of the interior organs.
Heaviness in all the limbs and great sluggishness. - Strong pu188tion in the
whole body.-Ezcuaive l1J8aitude, IDeaknus and debility.- The child will always
be carried to and fro. - Attacka offainting. - Excessive tenderpess ofthe whole
body; the child will not be touched, without vehemently shrieking.
Itching in the skin. - Itching eruption of pimples and miliaria. - Scabious
eruptions. - Pmtulu, like amaU-poz, fiUed on t~ top IDith matter, with a red
areola, afterwards a scab, finally a scar. -- Itching about the old ulcers.
Great droiDBineu in the day, attended with frequent stretching and yawning.
-Inclination to aleep with tendency to coma.and profound aleep. - Unrefreshing
sleep.- Late sleep.- Wakefulness at night. - Slight •leep IDith manyfanciful
dretml8. - Much speaking during the sleep. - Shrieklng during the sleep with
staring eyes ,and trembling limbs. - During the •leep, jerka to and fro, toesing
eometimes single limbs, at other times the whole body. - During the sleep lying
on the back with the left hand under the head.
Chilla, chillineu and coldneu are predominant. - Chills with paleness of the
filee and trembling.- Ezceaaive heat of t{le IDhole body, especially in the head
· and face, increased by the least motion. - Pulae frequent, full or weak. - J.nter.
mitting fever IDithout any thirit, and with tendency to coma. - Rheumatic fever.
-Frequent copious •weata, after cold. - Sweat on the affected part&- Excessive
night-sweats.
Fearfulness and inquietude, with palpitation of the heart and trembling.·-
Solicitude about futurity (in the evening). - DeBpondency and dupair. - Pro-
pensity to commit suicide.- Wild merriment (only in the daytime).
Dizzinel8, dullness and ob•tupefaction , with drowsintlfll!. - Attacks of giddi-
ness with glittering before the eyes and reeling, when walking. - Dullnel!8 o( all
the senses.
Digitized by Coogle
Antimonii (Sc potassre) tartras. 69
Headache with palpitation of the heart and giddiness.- HMvinetlll in the head,
eapecially in the oeciput.- Ht:!micrait.ia.- Preuing, tightening headache, a6 if
the brain tDere rolled in a baU, often with stupefaction, even to the root of the
nose; mostly in the evening and ai night.- Drawing, racking and agitation in
the head.- Piercing headache, sometimes extending to the eyes, with in~lination
to close them.-Boring in the forehead.- Beating in one halfof the forehead.
Chronic trembling qfthe head.
The eyesfatigued ,and full of Bleep, with an inclination to close them. - Sore-
ness of the eyeball, when touched.- Preuure upon the eyes.-Pricking, burning
and biting in the internal canthi, with rednetl8 of the conjunctiva.- Dim tearful
eyes.- Incipient amaurom.-Diomeea, with glittering lxifore the eyu, especially
when rising from the seat.
Buzzing in the ears.
Omntenance pale and emaciated. -Drawing dull pressure on the zygomatic
bone.- Convulsive twitching ofthe ~les of the fuce.- Lips parched and peel-
ing oft- Cracked lips.
Toothache, in the morning, very painful
Collection of aaliva in the mouth.- The tongue moist, clean or white furrt>d.
-Speechlessness. ·
The food tasteless. - Saltish taste in the mouth. - Desire for cold water.-
Diminished appetite with great thirst. - Strong appetite, with loathing, after
taking some food. - Bulimy, when walking in the open air. - Great denre for
dCid& or fresh fruit (apples).-.Loathing of all kind offood, especially ofmilk.-
Each bit C&U8e8 a painful feeling through the whole paMage in the resophagua.
Vacant eructation:- Hiccupping eructation.- Nocturnal eructation, tDith a
6meU of rotten eggs. - Rising ofan acrid or saltish or sourish liquid. - Return of
milk made '!188 of.
Natuea, continual, tDith tendency to vomit, an.riety, pret!8Ure in the pit of the
stomach and headache, relieved by pa81!8ge of wind upward or downward. -
Vehement vomiturition, attended with efflux of much saliva, sweat on the fore-
head and weakness in the leg&...,.... Vehement vomiting tDith great exertion; pains
in the stomach and abdomen; trembling and contraction of the body; chills and
exoeeeive drowsinesa. - Slimy vomiting with slimy diarrhrea. - Sour vomiting
offood.
The stomach very sensitive, each bit causes pain.- Pain in the stomach, a6 if
it were surcharged tDith food. - Flabbiness and emptiness in the stomach. -
Prusure in the stomach and scrobiculus cordis. - Violent throbbing and pulsation
in the region ofthe stomach.- Stitches about the pit of the stomach.
Visceral pain tDith great inquietude ofbody and mind, and aversion to all labour.
-Uneasiness in the epigastrium and hypogastrium, which eompela to lying down
and to stretching out the body. - Fulness and pressure in the abdomen, GB iffrom
.ronu, especially, 10hen sitting bent. ~Spasmodic pain in the abdomen with vio-
lent contraction of the eyelids and invincible inclination to Bleep.- Pain in the
abdomen, as if cutting the bowels in pieces.- Pulsation in the abdomen. - Flat.
ulency with rumbling, grumbling and griping in the bowela.
Constipation, alternating with diarrhrea.- Pappeseent stools. - Aqueous or
:yellow, light-brown or pituitous diarrl&a!a, eometimes preceded by cutting and
Digitized by Coogle
60 Antimonii (& potassre) tartras.
moving about in the bowels.- Bloody evactUJtioM.- Involuntary dieeharge.-
During stools, palpitation of the heari. -Violent burning tickling, extending from
the rectum to the glans penis.- Stings in the rectum.
Very vehement painful urging to urinate, with tension in the perinetun.
burning in the urethra and 8111all discharge, which finally, accompanied by a vio-
lent pain in the bladder, becomes bloody.- Urging to urinate, at night, attended
with great thirst and small discharge.- Inflammatory rea urine , which deposilll
bloody ·red filaments, when remaining for some time. ~Oloudy, acrid, dllrk-brovm
urine.- Pressure and tension over the bladder.- Stinging in the urethra and the·
lower part of the bladder.
Discharge of an aqueous bloody fluid from the vagina.- Eftloreecence on the
privy parts.
Vehement flowing catarrh, with frequent sneezing, ulcerous nostrils, chills and
loss of taste and smelL
Catarrh with provocation to cough, and much rattling slime in the brea.t.-
Hoarseness.
Cough from excessive tickling in the trachea. - The child coughs, when it
gets angry. - Attacb ofcoughing with suffocating obstruction ofbreath (choking
cough). - Cough with beat and moisture of the hands and sweat on the head, es-
pecially on the forehead. - Cough with vomiting offood, after eating.- Rattling,
hollow cough. - Cough with expectoration ofslime, sometimes only at night, es-
pecially after midnight.
Frequent obstruction of breath, almost suffocating, especially in the evening,
or early in the morning in bed. - Short difficult respiration. - Peripn'eumonia
par[llytica.- Anxious oppression ofthe chest, with warmth rising up to the heart.
- Snori11!J and rattling in the breast, when breathing.
The breast aches as ifsore, at intervals, especially in the .left sid.e.- Rheumatic
pain in the left side of the breast. - Burning in the breast even into the throat. -
Pneumonia.- Visible, sometimes anxious palpitation ofthe heart.-Whirling and
beating sensation about the heart, at night, remitting only, when sweat comes on.
-Miliary eruption on the breast.
Pains in the back and sacral region in Bitting, as if from fatigue. - Rheumatic
pain in the back.- Weakness of the muscles of the neck, which prevents the head
from keeping upright.- Miliary eruptions on the neck.
Knacking in the shoulder-joints with tearing in the arms towards the hands.
- Excessive heaviness in the arms. - Twitching of the muscles of the arms and
hands.- Miliary eruption on the arm. - Itching efflorescence on the upper-arms
and wrists. - On the hands red spots resembling fleabites. - Trembling hands;
cold hands; ice-cold tips of the fingers; dead, dry, hard tips of the fingers.- Dark-
yellow spots on.the fingers.- Contraction of the ~ngers.
Heaviness and rheumatic pains in the hips and lower extremities. - Painful
weakness of the knee-joints, in the morning in bed. - Tension ofthe tendons in
the bend of the knee and the back of the foot, when walking. -Spa.sm in the
calves of the legs.- Cold feet.- The feet falling asleep, when ever sitting down.
Digitized by Coogle
•
Aquilegia. 61 .
f s. Aquilegia.
Antidot~1: eamphora, ignathe mba.
General restlessne88.-Spasmodic disorders in the breast, and othersymptoDUI,
especially in women in the climaeteric year1. - Complaints originating in the
uterul.- Weaknei!S of the eyes, with spasmodic twitching of the eyelids towardB
evening, particularly in hypochondriac persons.
Sleepiness in the daytime.-Nocturnal wakefulne88. -Coma vigil with anxioWI
and frightful dreams.- A sense ofdeadly sickness, without any hope of recovery.
-No place is soft enough for the head to lie on.
Attacks of anxiety IUld fearfulness. - Dejection of mind , alternating with
delight.- Very changeable, mostly peevish humor. - Great inclination to vexa-
tion, sUcceeded bl whining.- Sadnel!ll! and reservedness, says nothing, and when
interrogated, speaks only a few words.- Indifference to all sensual pleasure. -
Aversion to conversation.
Incapable ofclose reflection.- Forgetfulness.
GiddineM, when raising the eyes.- Dizziness.- Reeling, when w~, and
chiE~fly w~en stooping.- Stupor.-Vacuity and dizzine88 of the head.
Dull pressing headache in the vertex.-Sensation of heavine88 in the occiput.
-Frequent pricking and chilliness over the whole head, in the morning. -
Throbbing in the temples. - Sometimes a boring pain on a circuiD8Cribed spot in
the suture of the frontal and parietal bone, as if caused by an obtuse instrument,
decreasilig in the afternoon, in the open air.- Pain through the whole head, aa
ifcaused by bruising, after dinner.- Shooting In the right temporal bone, draw-
ing in the frontal sinus, caused by motion.
Burning heat and constant itching on the scalp. - Vellicating or pinching
drawing in the scalp towards the neck, chiefly towards evening. - Excessive
weakneM ofthe head with anxious sensation of warmth on the occiput, as ifsweat
were exuding.
Dullness and dimneM of sight. - Pressing tension in the right eyeball. -
Pressure in the fundus of both orbit.s.-<1ecutiency.-Indistinct vision, sometimes
great irritation from light. -,Very moveable, somewW.t contracted pupils.-
Scintillation, darkening, clouds or specks before the eyes. - Diplopia. - Ex-
Cei!Sively painful sensation in the eyes after reading in the evening.- Burning-
and pressure in the eyes, towards evening.- Redness of the conjunctiva with
pricking and tickling.- Mild pressure between the lids .of the right eye.- Fre-
quent twinkling in the afternoon, similar to some one, who wishes to suppre88
sleep. - Cementing of the eyelids. - Sometimes eftbsion of tears. - Pricking
itching in the left eyebrow, in the morning.
Drawing and crackling in the ears.- In the external ear a continual trouble-
some, prickling and quivering, sometimes drawing or tension in the right tympa·
num, when exercising in the open air.- Vehement preesure in the internal part
ofboth ears. - Buzzing and chirping before the eal'll.-When chewing, a painful
6
Digitized by Coogle
62 Aquilesia.
straining with squeezing towards the ears. -Intolerance of loud eounds, either
from a bell or an instrument. '
Dryness and tension in the noee, and IIIOI'eMIIIII mostly towarda evening.-
Pricking in the left noetril- Pseudoemia, as if Valeriana were in the vicinity,
or as if hair were burnt, in the afternoon.- Mouldy smell, eometimes of rotten
eggs, in the morning, when rising.-Inci-eased sensation of warmth on the tip of
the nose, sometimes burning. - Dull drawing and pressure in the root of the
nose, and spasmodie tension in it, after dinner.
Pale, sallow, yellowish countenance.- Shrunk countenance, void ofall viva-
city. - Twitching in the fuce.- Distortion of the facial muscles.- Spasmodic
stretching of the face towards the chin in the forenoon.
Dry lips. - Tension, quivering, burning of the lips, with difficulty to move
them. - Tqe cavity of the mouth and the fuuces ofa pale appearance.
Periodical racking toothache in the upper-jaw of the right side.-Shooting and
drawing in the lower incisors.- Squeezing pain in the right side of the lower jaw,
towards evening.
The tongue furred with much viscid slime. - Periodical burning in the tip of
the tongue.
Sensation as ifsomething adhered to the uvula and soft palate, after drinking
cold liquids.-Pressure in the throat. - Spasmodic constriction of the muscles of
the resophagus and throat. - Pressing drawing in the 0!10phagus. - Frequent
tickling·in the epiglottis, terminating in dryness, which superinduces coughing.-
Oflimsive odour out of the mouth.
Insipid, nauseous, mouldy, sometimes bitter taste, with scratching.-Anorexia.
-Excessive loathing and aversion to meat.- Adipsia.- Desire for coffee.
Frequent insipid ernctl\tion. - Rising of a eour liquid from the stomach.-
Waterbrash.
Flabbiness in the pit of the stomach. - Continual nausea and inclination to
vomit. - Cramp in the resophagus with unproductive vomiting. - Choking suc-
ceeded by vomiting of much viscid slime, a few hours after dinner, attended with
gaping, giddiness and vertigo, and after which, many complaints are relieved.-
~nsation ofemptiness after vomiting.
In the stomach an uneasy sensation offulness and heaviness.- Tedious prt>s-
sing and clucking, sometimes vehement burning in the fundus of the lltomach, in
the afternoon.- Sometimes a sensation.as if the stomach would be turned inside
out.- Painful constriction of the stomach, considerably lessened by external pres-
sure, in the evening.- Wringing in the pit of the stomach.
Painful teneion and stretching in the liver. - Irregular pulsating throbbing in
the posterior part of the liver. - Sensation of fulness; spasmodic grasping with a
sensation of!!Welling in the liver, in the evening.- Burning pressure after eneez-
ing and coughing, cl&ielly after meals.
The abdomen distended and inflated, and painful when touched, especially
after eating.- Drawing abqut the navel and spasmodic retraction ofit.
Griping and cutting with frequent burning in the bowels towards the small of
the baek.- Grasping in the right side ofthe hypogastrium, especially in the after-
noon. - Frequent rumbling and grumbling. - Aggregated and obstructed flatu-
lency, with small escape ofwind. -Drawing.griping towards the urinary bladder.
o;g,i,zed by Coogle
Aquilegia. 63
-Shooting pain throJlgh the abdominal integument& - Nocturnal pain in the ab-
domen with a ~nsation ofapproaching diarrhrea. - Sensation of heat over the
whole abdomen, succeeded by pricking, occasionally by chilliness.
Frequent preesing and urging in the rectum, attended with stretehillg in the
email of the back. - Constipation. - Di8cbarge of hard faloee, with copious ftat-
uleilcy. - Exee88i-..e bumiog around the llllUS, which preveota flitting, succeeded
by a papeacent yellowish evacuatioD, mixed with mucus.
Copioua and &,quent, eometimes burning discharge of whitish urine, exhibiting
a clo1,1d.
Crawling on the glans penis. - Frequent erections. - Nocturnal pollutions,
succeeded by a diminished secretion of urine and drawing in the testicles, the
next day. · ,
Miliary eruption, eomewhat burning, on the perirueum and the right thigh.
Itching tf'naion on the labut pudendi.- Vehement pressure and bearing d!)wn
in the uterus and vagina, as if·they would be pressed out, with shooting stinging
through the vagina. - Painful griping and vellicating. - Moderate discharge of
elime from the vagina. ·
The menaes at the proper time, but very thin and in small q~antity, attended
with pre.Ming, cutting or stinging pain. in the hypogastrium and the small of the
beek. - Dull pressing in the right ovarium, mostly exacerbated in the afternoon~
- Leucorrhc:ea.
Frequent efforta ofsneezing.- Want oflymph in the nose.- Catarrhal affec-
tion. - Great propenaity to catarrh, especially after exercise. - Cheeked catarrh.
- Frequent hawking. - Flowing catarrh with soreness.
Rough boaree voice after mueh talking or reading loud. - Difficult speaking.
Dry cough and soreness in the organa of respiration.- Frequent cough with
copious expectoration of phlegm. ·
Short breath, when walking or ascending, increasing almost to breai.bletl81lees.
-Frequent gaping with hiccupping.-Spaamodic gn!Bping and constriction in the
bronchia, and suffocating attacks, as if from sulphurous vapors.
Compression of the chest, at night, when at rest, gradually abating when
rising and rubbing the breast. - Oppression on the chest with internal exeeMive
heat, accompanied with cold shiverings from the neck to the small of the back. -
Sensation of heaviness in the right side of the breast.- Sometimes jerks through
the chest a~d the throat. - Heavy pressure on the xyphoid proce88 and the ab-
domen.
Pinching, grasping and twitching in the muaeles of the throat, towards even-
ing. - Stiffness of the neck, after vexation. - Sensation of colclnees in the small
of the back.- Itching between the shoulders.
Drawing Jlllin in the axillaR. - Disability of the right arm. - Straining in the
let\ elbow.- Burning beat in the balls of the hands, towards evening.
Drawing straining in the right thigh. - &inging tearing in the left thighbOne.
-When walking the thighs knack ~ether.
Pricking in the lege and numbness. -Burning heat in tbe 11>lea of the feet, in
~he evening. '
Digitized by Coogle
Argentum.
t g. Argentum.
8il••r.-Gora. &ll•r.
PredomiMnt ~ect•: ~ng, drawing and tetJJ'ing, cbiefty in the limbe ancl
in. the bonu.-' PairuJ 88 if beaten, especially in the ~~~~eral region and in the jointi!J
of the lower extremities.-The skin aches, 88 if rGID cmd fretted, the 118Dle ~
ing occupies the internal organs.- The limbe asleep and clammy.- Epileptic
fit•.- Complainu produced by mmue ofmercury.- Exacerbation every noon.
Burning itching on different spots of the skin. - Pustulous eruptions with a
burning pain u ifilore.
Anxious dreams.
Shivering1 and chiU., especially in the afternoon and at night.- Night"Sweata.
An.ziety, which leads to quick walking. - lU humour cmd diftncliaatioa
to ~peak.
The head seems to be hollow and stupid. -Sensation 88 if there were smoke
in the head.- Crawling and •tirring in the head.- lntozicatioa.- Vertigo, tPit&
ob1curation ofthe eyes, or with drowsiness and involuntary closing the eyes.
Sensation in the occiput, 88 ifa strange body were in it drawing aud pressing,
with stifthess of the neck.- Stunning pree8ure in the sinciput. - Ate.eks ofcom-
pressing pain in the brain with nausea and burning in the pit of the stomach.
while reading and stsnding.- Piercing and racking headache.
External pain on the 1calp, u if 80re, from slight preerrure.- Preltltlre and
rending in the bone1 of the •kull. - Painful twitching of muscles in the templea
and the forehead.- A pimple on the temple, smarting like a sore.
Itching of the eyes, particularly in the cornere.-The edges of the eyelids red
and swollen.
Stinging and cutting pain in the ears extending deep into the brain.-Pungent
itching on the external ear, inducing to scratch till bleeding.-Sensation, 88 ifthe
ear were checked.
Epilftaritf, after blowing the nose, or preceded by pricking and tickling in it.
..,._Bloody purulent discharge from the nose.
Redness in the face. -Gnawing preuure and tearing in the facial bonu. -
Swelling of the upper-lip, immediately under t.4e nose.
Toothache, 88 iffrom looseneM of the teeth.- Painfulne!!8 of the gums, when
touched.- Loose easily bleeding gums.
Dryne!!8 .in the mouth. - Sensation of dryness on the moist tongue. - Con-
fluence of much vi{!eid saliva in the mouth, attended with shivering.-: Yeliclea on
the tongue, ~mMting u if80re.
Pain in the throat,.u iffram internal 8Welling of the cuophagua with difficult
swallowing. - Rouglmess and scratching in the resophagus. - Inflammation of
the throat, after mUu.e of mercu-ry, attended with' rawneu and •ore ~mMting
pain, when swallowing and respiring. - Boring and mooting in the throat. -
Much gray gelatinous slime in the fauces, easily to be hawlred up.
Aver.ion to all kind offood, even when thinking of it, and being quickly satis-
fied.- Strong appetite, even when the stomach i& full. - Gnawing hunger, not
abated by eating.
Digitized by Coogle
\
Argentum.- Arnica.
Heartburn.- Hiccupping when smoking tobacco.
Continual qualmishness and flabbinei!B.- Choking vomiting ofan acrid, ofFen-
sive fluid, succeeded by scratching and burning in the cesophagus.
Pressure in the pit of the stomach. - Terrible pressing from the abdomen to
the os pubis, immediately aft,!r commencing ~eals, exacerbated by inspiration,
relieved by standing up. - Painful pre1sing diltension of tht abdomen. - ~tting
visceral pain. -Contraction of the abdominal mui!!Cles, when walking.- Loud
croaking and rumbling in the bowels.
Frequent urging to 1tool, with a small dii!!Charge of soft stool- Dry, sandy
evacuation.-Vomiting during evacuation. - After 11tool in the morning a con-
tracting pain in the abdomen.
Frequent urging to urinate with copiou1 di1cluJrge.- Diabetes.
Squeezing pain in the testicles.- Involuntary seminal emillions.
Stoppage of the n01e, with biting in it. - Vehement jlOfiJing catM'Th, with
freciuent sneezing.
Painful sensation of rattmell and 1orene13 in the larynx, when coughing.-
When 1tooping, coughing and ascending steps much slime arile1 in the trachea,
which with a single cough is thrown up. - Obstruction of the breast with
slime. •
Cough caused by a cutting pain in the trachea, with an aqueous.ejeetion.-
Attacks of a short stertor~us cough, in the daytime, with easy dii!!Cbarge of a
thickish white matter.
Presl!!ure on the chest. - Preesing and 11titching on the stemum and in the
sides of the chest.- Cutting pain in the sides of the chest, when inspiring and
bowing.- Sf¥Ulm in the muscles of the thorax and on the rib8.
In the small of the back a drawing pain, or 81!! if beaten. - Rending in the
shouldel'8 .and !!boulder-blades.
Tearing, cramping and tenlion in the tJrmB and hand!!.- Racking in tht bones
and the joints ofthe luJndB millfinger~. ~
Arthriti3 ilchiatica, with a disabling preesing and !!tinging pain in the hip-
joint, when walking.'- Twitching in the mDI!!Cles of the thighs.- Spasmodic
cutting and racking in the kRees and ankles. - ~ in the ealves, with l!!mart
in the muscles, as if they were too short, when dei!!Cending 11teps. - Bn1ising pain
aDd beating in the foot-joint!!.- Rending in the bones and .iointl!! of the feet and
t~1.- Nutnbnesl!! in the heel and tendo Aehillil!!.
20. Arnica.
Duration ofeffect: about 30 days.
Antidotu: camphors, ipecacuanha.
Uted u antidote for: poi!oning with steam of coel8; cbina, eicuta , ferrum,
ignatia, ipecacuanha, 11enega.
Jt,an..,..• well6fter: aconitum (alternating), -ipecacuanha, veratrum.
Digitized by Coogle
66 Arnica.
It 1MY 8fUXe66jvlly prtcetk tht following, viz.: aconitum, &neDKUib, ipeea•
cuanha, eulpburicum acidum, toxieodendron.
Vinum if used after it, t'8W!e8 exacerbation.
Predominant effects:. Chronic rlatumati6m6 with strammg tearing paiiUI.-
Acute rheumatism with great se~aibility.- Pains IJ6 if beaten; ~or craw-
ling or di&rhling pains, especially in the limbe and joints by being moved. :-
Arthritic complaints.- Ailments from blow•, fall6, contmiom; •training, rprain-
ing and dulocation.- Wounds caused by a cut, by •tabbing or by a gun-shot.-
Compre88ion, stinging and crawling in th~ injured parts. - The pain increaed
from apeaking, from blowing the nose, from every motion and even from a .ound.
-Complaints produced by misuse ofcinchona.
Agitation ofthe blood and congestion to the head with burning in the nperior
pam ofthe body, attended with coldneu of the inferior parts. - lncressed sensi-
bility of the whole body, eepecially in the jo~ts.- Heavinees and relaxation in
all the limbe. - Tingling vibration in all the limbe, caused by conc1181rion o(tbe
body or by treading on the ground.-Jerka through the whole body.- The child
makes itselfstiff, is visited by convulllions, and cannot hold his head up. - Faint-
Del!&-Wasting of the body.- Apoplezia •anguinea, also nervosa and.serosa.
Furuncles.- Stings of bees.- Varices.- lVounth, aZ.o catUed by bites.-
Eruptions like miliaria or small pox.- Spots in the skin, suggilated, dark-red,
blue and yellowish.-Hot, hard, red-glutering 61Delling.
Great drow6iness in the daytime, with ineapacity to·sleep. - Very early sleepi-
ness in the evening.- Dreamful, unrefreshing sleep. - Coma vigil with delirium.
-Picking with the fingers upon the bed-clothes or catching in the air. (Carpho-
logia.) - .An.t:ious dreadful dream6.- Startling and whimpering in sleep. -In
awaking the recollection is hardly to be recovered.
ChilZ., mostly in the evening, like cold water pouring over the top ofthe head.
- Erxming-fever.- Morning-fever, with chills, succeeded by heat. -Intermit-
tent fever, umh thirst; ya•ming before· the chill and much drinking; after the
chill heat with thirst, but less drinking.-Very disagreeable sormeu in the ptriot-
teum ofsll the bones, atm:ost like a drawing in all the limbe, a if sn intermittent
fever were approaching. -Thirst, without external heat, with cont~ pupils.
-Quick pulse.- Milk-fever.- Puerperslfever, with a tertian type and aqueous
diarrluea:- Stupid nervous fever, even with a putrid character, in tropical cli-
mates.-Typhue-fever with uncoll8Ciousness, without deliria.- Intermittent fever,
after mi6U8e ofcinchona.
Hypochondriac fearfulneu. - Exceesive inquietude and anxiety. - Despon-
dency. - Increased irritability and sensibility of the mind. - Disposition to be
eaaily frightened.- Obstinacy.
Thoughtlessness.- Mental abstraction, and a kind ofdreams while awake. -
Unconsciousness, alternating with screaming. ·
Dizziness with shooting paiqs. - Whirling giddines• when riHftng up or
moving the head, or in walking. - GiddineM, with inclination to fiill forward,
during dinner.-Giddiness with nall8e&, when continually resding.
Arthritic paroxysms in the head. - Stunning or preesing ·~ pain,
Digitized by Coogle
Arnica. 61
panieularly in the foreMtMl, mostly tDilh heat in the brain, and especially.when
walking, ascending steps, close $hinking and reading or after eating.-Spasmodie
contraction in the forehead, above the eyes, with a sensation, as ifthe brain were •
balled together on a lump, particularly near a warm stove.- Pain as ifa nail was
foreed into the temples.- Racking and piercing in the head, as if from a knife,
succeeded by an internal sensation ofcold, so that the hair bristles on the head.-.
Crawling in the forehead and above the orbits. - Congutilm to the head and
burning heat in it, whiht the bodu i8 cool, or naturaUy tDm'm.- Headache from a
blow or olher mechanical causes. - C0f1117K1tio cerelwi.- WeakneM and heaviness
ofthe head, with a difficulty to keep it erect.- Periodical headache.
Crawling, externally upon the vertex.-Tightness and immobility ofthe whole
8calp.
Pain in the eyes, with a dull pressing upon the edge of the orbit and around
the eyes.- Crawling about the eyes.- Sorene8s ofthe eyes and the edges ofthe
lids; with a difficulty of being moved. - Burning in the eyes. - lnjlammatilm,
camed by mechanical injuries.- Reddened sclerotica.- Swollen and suggilated
eyelids.- Eyes dull, glazy, without lustre.- Vehement flow of burning tears.-
H:Uf closed or protruded, or staring eyes, full of anguish.- Darkne88 before
the eyes. ,
Pain, as iffrom a blew or bruise in the ears.- Racking in the ears.- Shoot·
ing pains in and behind the ears.- Piercing pain through the ears, when leaning
on the head. - Difficult hearing and ,.oaring before the ears, sometimes after
mechanical injuries.
Pain in the nose as iffrom a push or blow· and pricking on it. - Spasmodic
pain on the root of the noee.- Injlammatilm and B!DeUing ofthe nose.- Ulcerous
noetrils.- Epistaris.
Face pale, and shrunken or yellow and bloated. - Redness and burning of
one cheek only, whil8t the body is but moderately warm.-Twitching throbbing or
pricking shivering in the cheeks.- Heat in the face, in the evening, with a cold
noee.- Inflammatory pains in the face.- Hot, red-shining hard B!DeUing ofthe
cheeks.- Pimples in the face, especially below the eyes.
Swollen lips. - Pricking in the lip3. - Ardent, dry and shrivelled lips. -
Cracked edges ofthe lip3.- Incipient palsy of the lower jaw.- Painful swelling
ofthe submaxillary glands.
Toothache with hard teJUie B!DeUing of the c}feeks. - Racking in the (upper-
molar-) teeth, when eating.- Looseness and elongation ofthe teeth.- Pricking
in the gums.
Dry mouth with thirat. _.. Bloody saliva.- Htem0f1tysis.- Dry or white fur-
red tongue. - Sensation as ifsore and biting upon the tongue. - Contraction on
the palate, as if from astringents.
Pain in the throat as if from a hard body.- Swallowing prevented by a kind
ofnausea, as if food would not p8. down._: Rattling when swallowing.-Stin-
ging in the throat without swallowing. - Burning in the throat with fearfulness,
as iffrom internal heat.- OMophagitie. - Bitter lllime ~ the throat.
Taste putrid, or lllimy, or bitter (in the morning after awaking).- Thirst for
water. - Inelination to drink, with averaion to all 'liquids.- Avel'l!ion to meat,
broth, and smoking tobacco. - Desire for vinegar. - Exee.ive appetite in the
Digitized by Coogle
68 Arnica.
I
evening with sensation of fulnees and colic -like pressure in the abdomen, imme-
diately after eating.- After eating (supp«lr) lamentable di-ti.sfuction.
Eructation bitter or putritl, vehement and vacant; or interrupted. - Riling of
o bitter slime or 1181t.ish water.- N•wetJ in the morning, with inclination to vomit.
- lne.ffectuol vomiturition, 110metimes at night, with preaure in the pit of the
stomach, 111!1 if from a lump.- Vomiting ofcoagulated blood.- Vomiting ofmilk
and blood tJ.fter drinking.
Pl'e8IIUI'e in the stomach, u iffrom a stone. - Ji\dneu in the •tomtJCh and in
the serobiculus cordis, like satiety accompanied with loathing. - Evolution in the
pit of the stomach and a sensation, 88 if there w~re aomething rolling itself to-
gether. - Griping, 8p8.!IIDOClic raffing in the stomach. - &itclau in the pit ofthe
stomtJCh with pru.ure extending to the btJCk, and contrtJCtion on the che•t, in-
c~88ed by eating, drinking and touching.
Stitche• in the 3pleen, fiJhen wtJlking. - Stitchu under the left hypochondriflfll,
so all to ob•truct breath. - J?ressure in the region of the liver.
AbdomintJl pmn of pregnant women, tJjter injury done by lifting improperly.-
Hard dutemion ofthe abdomen, .with a cutting pain, 88 ifsore, in the sides of the
abdomen, alleviated by discharge of wind; every day from early in the morning
till 2 o'elock P. M. - Sharp shocks trnnsvel'llely through the hypogastrium. -
Squeezing poin in the ndu of the tJbdomen.- Pain of &tulency.- Expul!lion of
wind, stinking like rotten eggs.
Ineffective urging to stool. - Constipation.- TAin, JHlpe.unt, sourish smel-
ling stooZ., after a frequent ineffective urging. - Frequent small discharge even
of mucus. - Aqueow diarrhao.. - badige•ted •totJl.. - Involuntary dilcluwge of
•totJl, at night.- Bloody, purulent evacuations.- Hemorrhoidal tumours.-
Pressure in the rectum.
Retention ofurifte, with squeezing tJnd pre•nng in the bladder. - Painful ur-
ging to urinate. - Efforts to discharge urine, with involuntary dropping of it.-
Frequent discharge of watery urine. - Br011m urine with tJ ltJteriticnu .editnent.-
·HamtJturio. ·
On the glans penis an itching red spot. - lnftammation of the pans. - Blue-
uh-red stoeUing ofthe pen_is tmd the scrotum, with tension, 110renNB and pain 88
if bruised.- .Hard, hot BUJeUing of the tuticlu (caused by a blow) with painful-
ness when walking, standing, or touching it.- Hydrocde. - Stitches in the tee-
ticles·and the spermatic eord, extending to the abdominal cavity, when at rest.
· Menstruation too early. - Discharge of blood from the uterus during the in-
.· tervals.- Very ptlinful and tediow ofterpang•. '
Cough, mtntly dry, cawed by o crawling in the trtJCAeG, early in the mornin~,
after rising. - Night-cough during sleep. - Cough ofchildren after weeping aacl
crying.- Att41cks ofhooping-cottgh, commencing with weepiDg. - Moist cough.
- Hamoptysi8 with asthMa, agitation of the blood, palpitation of the heart, periGd-
ical heat, and increased ejection of a clear frothy blood , with eoegulated lumJIII
and slime.- Men cougiing, stiftging ptlir~ its the head or pain in all the ribs, aa
if they were beaten.
Oppreaft.on ofthe cAul.- Difficult maziotu snuffing breath.-Stertorg'Us noise
in the trachea. - Ptllrid smelli:ltg bretJth.
Digitized by Coogle
Arnica. - Arseniostim acidum. 69
Stitche1 in the brea~t with obstruction of breath and cough, exacerbated by
every motion.- Rheumatic 1titche1 in the tide.- (&star~leurily.)- Compre8-
3ion on the che1t and about the heart. - Wrenching and bruwng smart in the
pectoral and doraal cartilage!!.- Painful stitches about the heart.-Jerking Aeart-
beating.-Red perspiration on the breast.- &reneu ofthc nipples.
Pain in the arm, IJI ifit were beaten, tDith crawling in it. - Wrenching pain
in the arm and hand-joint.. - Twitching in the arms.- Stinging in the axillie.-
SwoUen veins on the handl!, with a fuU strong pu18e.- Pain in the hands a1 if
from a bruise, and infirmity, when grasping. - Spasm in the fingers.
Legs and feet: aching a1 if beaten. - Tension drawing and wearineBB in the
thighs, increased by walking.- Racking in the kuee, or tension, as iffrom short-
ening of the tendons, increased by walking.- Infirmity and knaeking ofthe knee,
with numbness of the feet. - Rending in the foot-joint• and tht~ heels.- Stinging
in the foot-joint, when moving it.- Crawling in the feet. - Eryripelatmu inflam-
mation and ~tceUing of the feet, with beat and racking pains.- Swelling ofthe
foot-joint, with painfulness, when moved.- Dark-red, blue ·or yellowish skin
of the foot. - Hot, ..,.ed mining ~tcelling of the toe• and the adjoining parts.-
Podagra. ·
21. Arseniostim acidum.
Duration ofeffect: about 40 days.
Antidotes: cinchona, graphite&, i~uanl!a, ~ux VC?miea, sambucus, veratrum:
for poisoning with it: oxyhydrate of iron or a solution ofsulphuretum calcis (or
eopious drinking ofrich milk) or earbonas pota.ese shaken with sweet.oil, or pap
of-p.
U1ed IJI antidote for: carbo vegetabili.e, cinchona, graphite!!, ipecacuanha,
lachesi.e, veratrum and injury done by sea-bathing. ·
It an$1DerB well after: aconitum (in colics) arnica, belladonna (in typhus), cin-
chona, ipecscuanha, lachesis, veratrum.
It maylti4Ce1BfuUy precede: cinchona, ipecacuanha, nux vomica, sulphur,
veratrum. '
Predominant effect•: Paroxysms of pains with an.rioulnus, coldneiB, inclina-
tion to lie dottm, and lUdden extreme wealme11.- Pains, beginning with shivering.
-Pains with dupair and furimu impetuority.- Nocturnal paim, perceptible even
during 1leep; only endurable by walking about.- Exacerbation caused by talking
ofother•, or when lying on the disea~ed part, or when sitting after eating, espe-
eially after dinner, or in the evening after lying down; mitigation by external
tcarmth, or when atanding and moving the body.- Intermittent complaints every
day, or periodical paroxy~m~ every three or four week&- .Auacb ofrheumatic
rending pains, eontinuing six days; with intei'Vals offour days. - Burning paim
in the internal and ezternal paru. - 11fllmnmation of internal orgam with vehe-
ment burning pains. - Ga~tric, bilioru and hysteric eomplaints. -:- Dropsical
swellings.- Scrophulons eomplaints.
Benummedneae in the limbe, as if they were dead.- Eztreme tceakneu and .
atony. - When lying, one feels strong and wishes to get up, but UPon doing so
Digitized by Coogle
10 Arseniosum acidum.
sinks together. - Fainting jiu. - Emaciatior&. - Tabidneu and cOMUmption.-
Jaundice. - Chlorosis.- The .fuce and limbe bloated and mdematous, with a tumid
belly and glandular swelling.- A11Marca.-Sporadic and a.iatic clwlera.- Obsti-
nate ca8e8 ofinfluenza.- Trembling oftAe limb..- Colll~Ulfto,~.-Tonic fpume.
-Paralysis.
Dry, parchment-like or blue and cold •kin. - RM/au especially whi\e. - &a-
bioul ~e1cence.-Varioloides.-Nettleraah. -Petechia.- 1Jlood..U.uter1 on the
surface of the whole body, with putrid fever.- Black gcngrerunu blutera.-Pu-
rulent herpes, VJitA 11ehement burning pan. - lchorotu ulcn1 with elevated mar-
gine or a thin scab.- GangrenotU or carcinomatotU ulcers.- Vitlent pain, or 1oM
ofeeneation in tAe ulcer•, with pricking and buming, particularly, when the partB
become cold.-Discoloured nails.- Warts.- Chilblain&-Varicous vein&
Tendency to coma in the evening. - Nocturnal WGk~ulnetl vntA continual in-
quietude and tONing about. - Starting in lingle port• or tn tAe wh4le body, wieR
.falling uleep, or during sleep. - Coma vigil with frequent gnashing of the teeth
and whimpering. - Noctumal rutleuneu, an.riety cbotU the precordia, and vehe-
ment burning under the ekin, ae if hot water were running through tJte veins.-
Frequent awaking, with difficulty to fallaeleep again. - An.rioiu dt'eam&.- Glid-
ing down in the bed.
Universal coldness ofthe body, with defective pulse, and clammy cold SVJeatl.-
Chill and shivering, without thirst, moetly in the room, or immediately qfter drink-
ing.- Paroxysms of paine, connected with shivering&- With the commencement
ofchills often appear ot~er symptOm&.- Shiverings in the evening with stretching
of the limbs and anxious restlessness.- Before the paroxysms, dizziness and great
weakness. - During the paroxysms buzzing in the ears. - After the paroxysms
pressing pain in'the forehead. - Befure the chills giddiness, fhlnting, headache
with obstupef~tion, stitches in the chest, drawing pain in the back and abdomen,
vehement stretching, especially in the back, and yawning. ~ During the chills
anxiousness, headache, stinging pains in the head and limbs, acute drawing in
the head and the arms, coldness of the abdomen, oppression of the chest, aethma-
tic complaints, pre!ll'ing in the pit of the stomach and small of the back, pains in
the limbs and the back, yawning and stretching.- A~er the chills weariness and
sleep.- During the heat: restlessness, deliria, inability to recollect, dullness and
heaviness in the head, giddiness, _headache, anxiousness, earth-colored bloated
fuce, bitter taste ih the mouth, white dry tongue, nausea, pressing pain in the
liver, hard and painful region of the spleen, distension and fulness in the epigae-
trium, pre88Ul'e and burning in the pit of the stomach, inflated hard abdomen,
oppression at the chest, stitches in the sides, redness of the akin. - After the
fever: pressing pain in the forehead and sleep with dreadful dreams.- Intermit-
tent fever, quotidian, tertian, quartan, very often attended with an indutinct ap-
pearance of chills and heqJ ; characterized by restlestmU6 and thirlt, or without
thirst during the chills and heat.- Intermittent fever after misuse ofcinchona.-
Anticipating type. - Fever every morning or every evening.- Febris pituitosiL-
Gaatric and bilious fevers with vomiting, attended with internal heat, great thirst,
cutting pains and diarrhrea.- Typhus putridus. - Typhus with total relaxation,
hanging down of the lower jaw; or tendency to apoplexia nervosa.- Febris pu-
trida or lenta and other emaciating fevel'L- Puerperal fever.- Universal ardor,
Digitized by Coogle
Arseniosum acidum. 71
at njght tDith bumtng in all tAe blood-ve11eh, wit~out thiret and perspiration. -
/Tie 81Deat coming on, after the fetJer-parw:ynM are entirely 011er. - Per-znration
ia the liginnmg of•leep.
Ext:e.live anxiety and rutlume1s, which compel to walk to and fro iD the day-
time, and to letne tke bed at night.-Great anxiety in the etJening after lyi1tg down
or at 3 o'clock in the morning, when awaking.- Religious pe11.8iveness.- Disi•
cli1Uftion to be alone. - Fear of spectres and thieves. - Exculivefear ofdeath,
or propensity to commit suicide. - Excessive irritability ofthe mind. - Debued
tttate of the mind, catll!ed by the use ofardent -znriu. - Ill humor and vexation
upon trifles. - Inclination, to talk about the faults ofothers. - Insanity. - Stu-
pidity and imbecility of mind. ·
Muddled and heavy head, in tfte house, relieved in the open air. - Dizziness
with beating in the·head, when rising. - Giddiness in the evening, with danger
- oftiilling, when closing the eyes. ·
Headache, alleviated by putting on cold water, but aggravated, when removing
it.- Pressing stunning headache with heaviness in the forehead. - Beating pain
in the forehead with vomiturition. - Arthritic paroxysms iu the head.
External painfulness of the scalp, as ifsuggilated, especially when touched.-
8fl)eUing ofthe head and face. - Scab• on th~ head.
Inflammation ofthe eyes, with a veheme1tt burning pain. -Arthritic, scrophu-
'lous and rheumatic inflammation of the eyes. - Inflammation ofthe internal IUr-
face of the eyelids, with inability to open the eyes. - Dim and yellow eyes.-
Wild staring look. - Distortion ofthe eyes. - Specks in the cornea.
Buzzing in the ears with difficult hearing, as if they were stclpped up.
Swelling of the nose.- Continual burniNg in it.- The cuticle of the nose fur-
furaceoUs peeling otr. - Carcinoma on the nose.
The face yellow, earth-colored or livid.- moated or shrunken face, sunken
eyes with livid circles, and pointed nose.-Diljigured, death-likeface.- Drawing
stingmg, or burning pain in the face. - SweUing ofthe face, especially below the
eyelid$.- Copper-colored eruption in the face.- Herpes farinosus in the face and
around the eyes. - Crusta lactea. - Carcinoma in the face.
Dry, blackish, cracked lips. - Eruption on the lips, on the edge of the red
part of them. - Carcinoma on the lower lip, with a suety bottom and indurated
puffed margins. - Swelling ofthe submaxillary glands, with pain as if squeezed
· or ~rushed. ·
Toothache at night, with pain in the cheeks, throbbing deep in the bone, ex-
tending to the ear and temples, increased by lying on the qffected lide, relieved by
warmth ofa stove.- Toothache, which malces one furious.- Looseness and a
sensation ofelongation of the teeth.- The teeth gruuh. - The gums bleed.
Stomacace.- Apkthce i" the mouth:- Offensive smell of the mouth. -:- Brown
or black, parched, cracked tongue.- Swelling and gangrene of the tongue.-
Hasty speech.
Pain in the throat, as iffrom internal (sore burning) swelling, when swallow-
ing.- Constriction in the CMOphague.- Impeded swallowing, as if.from palsy.
- Burning pain in tke tssophagU8. - Oesophagitis.
The food has no tal!te.- Bitter taste, after eating anti drinking.-Saltiah taste
~igitized by Coogle
72 Arseniosum acidum.
-Languishingforcold trHJter.- Contintull longing for liquitU, altAougAfrequnt.
but incormderable drinki~~g.- Duirefor GCide or tDAUky, or coffee.- Loa~
of food. - Every article offood eaWJeS a equeezing in the ~pbagu., u ~t etuck
fiu!t there.
Eructation after eating with pret!8Ure in the e&omaeh aDd uauea. - Rilling of
an acrid humor.
Naruea, inducing to lay dOtDn,.et~pecially when exercising.- Continual nal18e&
'with vomiting and diarrha!8. - Vehement vomiturition. - Tedioue liOmitiRg of
tDhatever ha8 been eaten.- Vomiting, first of food, then of bile. - Men taking
the 311Wllest quantity qf any fluid immediately a liOmiting ofa porraeeoue matter
and diarrhcea.-Vehement vori:Uting ofwater and slime. - Bloody and black vom-
iting (Hmmatemesis). - During vomiting,. anxious pains in the region of the
stomach.
Pre88Ure in the stomach, after eating. - Great painfulneu and an.riety about
the pr«ecordia and the stomach. - Spasmodic pains in the stomach. - Burning in
the stomach and the seorbiculu. cordw. - Ga.etritis. - Induration and &eirrhu. qf
the stomach. - Herpes in the serobiculue cordia.
Induration of the liver. - Numbness from the let\ hypochondrium to the
stomach.
Very violent pains in the abdomen, tDith great an.riety therein. - .DUtendetl
hard beUy.- "c-'utting pain&, with coldness or internal heat and thirst, attended
with vomiting, sen88tion of heaviness in the belly and diarrha!8. - Racking in
the abdomen. - Jerking vilceral paim at night. - Hysteric cramps in the ab-
domen. - Excusive burning pains in the whole abdomen. - Enteritis. - Swollen
indurated me&enteric gland&.-Sot\ swelling ofthe belly, painful when &ouched.-
Ascites.- Painful swelling of the inguinal glands. ·
Ejf'orts to stool, with griping in the belly and seD88tion ofa burning IOJ'eneu in
the anus. - Slimy, watery, porraceOU&, yellowilh, fetid, putrid and indigested
diarrhceic stools, sometimes with worms. - Burning evacuations tDith vehement
colic. - Bloody stools. -;- Involuntary stools. - Blackish diarrh(fQ. - Tenet~mue
during evacuation. - Burning h«fmorrhoidal tumours. -:- Burning pain in the
rectum.- Prolapsus ani.
Suppressed discharge ofurine and paralysis of the bla,dder.- Difficult painful
urinating.- Involuntary flow of urine.- Bloody burning urine.- Muddy urine
with a slimy sediment.
Painful swelling of the genitals, almost gangrene.- Blueish red swonen
cracked glans.- Erysipelatous inflammation ofthe scrotum.
Men~truation too early and too copious, with different pains and complaints.-
Suppressed menses.- Excoriating acrid leucorrhcea.- Carcinoma uteri.
Exce88ive flowing catarrh of an acrid burning lymph with hoarseness and
wakefulness. - Catarrh, with bleeding at the nose and pressure above the eye-
brows.- Dryness and obstruction of the nose.
Trachitis.- Pthw trachealil tDith deficient secretion ofslime.
Cough with stricture of the breast and viseid mucus in the breut. - Cough,
without expectoration, especiaUy after drinking.- Periodieal return of a dry
evening-cough.- Cough as soon, as, one comes in the open air.- Hooping-
Digitized by Coogle
Arseniosum acidum.- Artemisia judaica. 73
eough.- Hemopt,.W ai night, with burning heat.over the whole body.- ~cute
wppuration ofthe lu~•·
Short respiration, immediately after eating.- Sudden ltricture of the breast,
with want of breath, weakne88 and exeeesive m&igue when exercieing. -Stricture
of the breast with preiiBing ·pain in the pit of. the atomaA:h.- Oppre&lion ofthe
chest in cold open air, or when ascending an eminence. - Suffocating attackl in
tlie evening after going to bed.- Asthma Milari..
Pressure on the chest, especiaUy in the sternum.- CoMtriction of the breatt
on every motion, with want ofbreath.-HyoKeric cramps in the breast.-Stitches
in the sternum.- Chillineu in the lneatt and in the epigastrium, in the evening.
- Ardor in the breatt.- Pneumonia.- A~gina pectoril. - Hydrothorax. - Pal-
pitation ofthe heart, with great anxiety, especiaUy at night.- Vehement, agitated
heart-beating.- Carditis.- Carcinoma ofthe brea~t.
In the back an e:x:ce111ive ardent pain, highly increased by touching.- Rending
or drawing in the back and between the shoulder-blades, with inclination to lie
down.- Soft painleiiS swelling on the throat and lower jaw.
Tearing in the arms and hands. - Swelling ofthe ar1111, with putrid smelling
black blilter1 on it. - Racking from the elbow to the shoulder, at night; racking
and stinging in the wriSts.- Cramp and 8pUIIl 'in the fingers. - Hard ewelling of
the fingers with pain in their bones.- Discoloured naill!.-Warts on the arms. .< · .,
Cramp and spasm in the legs. - Tearing in the legs from the hips to the
ankles, which requires a continual motion of the limbs.- Arthritil ilchiatica ner-
VOia.- Disabling weakne88 ofthe thigh.-The knee-joint aching as if beaten.-
Shortening of the tendons of the bend of the·knee. - Cramps in the calves.-
White ~welling on the thighs. - Inveterate ulcer• on the thighl with burning and
stinging. - Hard shining, ardent •welling of the foot, with darlt·blue burning
blister• on the back of the foot.- Pain in the ,balls of the toes, as if galled, when
. walking;
22. Artemisia judaica.
.Arttrflitio tGrctortico. Dubl.- Wornuu4.- Genn. Zilltotr, Citt•.
Duration ofifect: 14-21 days.
Antidote: ipecacuanha1
Used a1 antidote for: cinchona.
It aMWerl well after: arnica1 hyoscyamus.
Predominimt effect•: Dilabling drawing pain in the limb1. - Dull stinging
squeezing and pre88ing or ~ic rending, drawing and jerking, or burning
stitches on different parts. - Jerkl with a 1en1ation of lamene11. - Epileptic tits
with consciousness (Eclampsia). - Painful eensitivene!IS o( all the limbs when
moved or touched. - The greater part of complaints arise when sitting, or at
night.- Verminal dilorder1.-lncipient scrophuloeis.
Frequent yawning, with trembling and shivering. - Nocturnal UHJlcejulne11,
with whining, crying and throwing about.
Frequent 1l1ivering, with trembling, even near a warm 1tove.- Intermitting
7
Digitized by Coogle
14 Artemisia judaica.
fner, .tDitla ~of whal,llu lao eetm, ad..,..,...wi&la ......_ -C.W
sweat on the forehead and banda.- Febri& pituitoea and l'elllliD-.
IDelioatiell to weepiJ18 8Dil ~ - TM ollild whiaea, wJr.ea t.ouahed.
-Continual~ with lo~ fH ..., tlaiap, which ue4illibd agaiD.
-Great anxiety and a.n.iaes~o whea walkiJt« in the OJIID llir.
Delirium.
Headaehe, alternating with ,...,.rure in the abdomen. - St~ ,.,....,.. ia
tie Aull, a iffrom a weight, especially, when w8lking iD the open air.- Draw·
ing rendiJ)g lteadacie, increaetl bg f'tGdirag IJ7Ul clote tl&iMittg.- DnlliiiOJ'DiDg·
headaChe with irritation of the eye&
Preesure in the eyes from long e1oee reedin«· - S,..,...OOic twi&ehing ill &be
muscles of the eyebrows.- IJinmeu of rigM, wben reading, d~ .{rota
rubbitng and vnpmg.
' Spasmodic twitching in the extemal ear.
EpistaXis~-Incli114tiof& to •tir in the M« tllitl t/ae,Inger.-PuruleDtdilcbarge
from the noee.
Pelene., oftlte foce 1DitA • dueaed hus about tie . .. - Bloated li'Dicl f~
upecially Gbout tie 1110Uth. - Spasmodic rendiDg and jerkin« ill the zygomatic
oone& .
·Toothache from the air and eold liquids.
lnGbility to .walloro, especially liquids.
Ioereued thirst.- Exeet!8ive hunger, 800n after eating.- Voracity.- Bu·
limia.-The sucking infunta dislike the (healthy) mother's milk.
Vomiting qf•lime and lumbricoidu.
Uninterrupted griping in the oowel&. - Painful wringing about the navel,
which SIDal1ll when preued upon. - Pains in the abdomen, as if preeeding men·
struation.
Papeseent diarrhrea-like stools.- DUchtwge oflumbrieoide• and uearide&
Frequent efforts to urinate with a copious discharge. - Urinal incontinence in
bed. -The urine 800n becoming cloudy.
Memes too early and too profuse.- Metrorrhagia.
Frequent sneezing, pl'888ing out the temples, and as it were bursting the chest.
- Flowing catarrh, with burning in the interior ofthe no1e.
Much phlegm in the trachea, which requires a frequent. hawking.
Cough, excited by deep inspiration.- Hoarse short coughing, in the evening.
-Dry •pGifftOdic cough, succeeded by want of brealb, anxiety, pale filce and
rnoaniag. - Hooping-cough, sometimes after measles.- Cough with sudden
startings ~nd unconsciousne&li.
Asthmatic affection and anxious oppression ofbreath, as if the sternum were
too closely adjacent.-Short, often interrupted, or gaspiug respiration.
Spasmodic rooting in the breast, as if it would burst.-Twitching and ooring
stitches in the breast. '
The small of the back smarting, as ifbeaten.- Drawing or jerking reodiag in
the back. ·
Digitized by Coogle
Artemisia judaica..._ Arum.- Asarum. 75
Dilab~ drawiag and reading ill the vma. .- ~ ~ in the anm
Mil .....- C..lnllltien uul jer~ ofthe hands aad ftn@en.
Dieabling or ~pamodic reralling and drawing in &ae las&_.. Spasmodic.streach-
ing of the legs.
23. Arum.
Anoa •""'""'•·- C••-• ""'•·- o-.Gefleciler Ard.
The gums easily bleeding.
Pain in the throat with dijficult •wallowing, as if from a comtriction of the
a;opltagm, with pre81!ing and a continual provocation to swaDow.
Anxious pressure In the abdomen extending towards the breast and throat,
attended with difficult swaUowing and great inclination to it.
Clear, Watery urine, smelling like burnt horn, and exhibiting a cloud, when
. remaining for some time.
Universal exhaustion. - lnvincwle •leepine•• after eating, and a red face,
dlll'ipg sleep.
24. Asarum.
Antidotes: camphora; acetum.
----
EzcuBive •emihility ofall the nerves.- Je~kfug rending and spasmodic draw-
ing, especially in the extremities. -Great weakness, chiefly after dinner, with
sluggishness and aversion to labour. - In the evening, weakness and tendency to
vomit, -inducing to lie down. - Great ligkmen /in all the limb•, on walking, an
impreSI!ion as if floating in the air. - Verminal complaint•.- Gastric: and bilious
cOmplaint&
Sleepine88 in the daytime. - Sleep in the evening prevented by an agitation of
the blood.- Irritating troublesome dreams.
Prevalent coldnelll, chills and shivering.
Melancholic peevishness.
Dull straining or pre•ring perturbation of the head, with inability to any
labour.- VaniBhing ofthought•.- Giddiness as iffrom intoxication, when rising
from the seat and walking about. ·
Headach!!, produced or increased by cloBe thinking.- Stunning drawing or
prenure jn the head, especially in the temples, the forehead, and above the root
of the nose.- Pressing outward or together in the sides of the head.- Attacks
ofarthritic pain in the left side ofthe head, every afternoon at 6 o'clock.- Pulsa-
tion and throbbing in the hea:d, eepeciaHy in the forebeai, when bending.
Tightness of the scalp and soreness ofit.
The eyes aching, as if they were pressed uunder, wheB reeding.-. Pulaating
rending in the eyea. - Selll!8tion of coldness in the canthi. - Burraing tmtl •en-
Bation ofdryne•• in the eyes.- Eyes without IWitre.- Taoitclring flflie eyelt.U.-
Obscuration of the eyes. ·
Digitized by Coogle
76 Asarum. - Assa fretida.
Painful earache, like a equeer.ing teuaion on the orifice of&he auditory ,._ge.
- He!it in the external ear.-Diflic*U leerifag (Dysecoia) u if from tloppGKe or
conttriction ofthe a!Mlitory pG~~age.
Sensation of warmth and a burning stinging in the cheek&
Sensation ofcoldnetl8 in the (upper-, fore-) teeth.
In the mouth and on the tongue pricking and burning.- Contraction in the
mouth with collection of much cool watery taliva. - Much villeid Blime in the
mouth and throat.
Bitter ttUte of bread and tobacco. - Rising of much wind from the e~b
and vacant eructation.- Hunger with a llensation offulne88 in the stomacb.
Nausea with loathing and shivering.-Tendency to vomit with pret18Ure in the
forflhead and gathE-ring of much water. in the mouth. - Vehement ineffectwd
vomiturition with exacerbation of all complaint&- Vomiting with great eJ:ertioa
and pains in the stomach, epigastrium and the head, attended with excealive
anxiety.-Vomiting with diarrh<ea.
Pinching in the stomach.- Pres8ure on the region of the stomach and eerobi-
culus cordis.- Constriction ofthe region ofthe diaphragm.
Distention ofthe abdomen with sensation of fulnet18 therein. - Cutting pain in
the epigastrium. - Painful colic, especially with vomiting. - Htrnie inguinalu.
Purging 1tool8 of a white viscid mucus, with dilcAarge of tUCCridet.-
Whitish-gray, ash-colored stools.
Urging to urinate, almost continually.- Pressure.upon the bladder during
and after urinating.
Abortus.
Cough from irritation in the larynx, with copioiHI expectoratioo of phlegm.
Short breath from constriction ofthe larynx.
Pressure on the chest.- Constriction in the lun~. - Stitche1 m tl&e lttftKI,
when inspiring.-Twitching ofthe muscles about the clavicles.
The back 'aches as if beaten, with disability between and on the shoulder-
blades. ....,... Spa~m in the throat and neck. - Cramp in the m118eles of the throat,
drawing the head aside.
The shoulder-joint aches as if wrenched, iu moving the arm.- Disabling
clrawin} in the wrilt1 andfingers.
Dull presling pain in the hip-joint and thigh, especially when stepping and
w8lking. -SptUm in the thighs.-Drawing in the knee and tendolll! of the hollow
of the knee.-Weakness of the legs and knees, with staggering in walking.-
Twitching ofmuscles in the calves.
25. Assa fretida.
F.,·wla AI• (•lid•.- At,a f•lid•.- Gel'lll. .Sii•l· At..,,
Duration ofeffect: about 50 days.
Antidotes: causticum, cinchona; electricitato.
Uaed tU antidotefor: hydrargyrum.
It anawer1 well ufter: thuya, pulsatilla.
After it anstoers well: causticum, pulaatilla.
Digitized by Coogle
Assa fretida. 77
Predominant effect•: Regu~Mly intmnfttmg, Jti'Oetly ~tttome jerking, or
~~ing or dullltitagfllg, or rending~~ 1\-om inride e3-temling citltWaril, de-
creased by toucAing or cka~ll into other•, somiltimes accomjMlfiled With iie'ru!ation
of torpidity, - Pains in the bende of the limbs. -'- The complaints appearing on
sitting, decrease and disappear by exerciee in th~ open air. - in'IIOlunmry tiDitc•
itt.g and quivering of lingle mmcle1 or muscular fibres. - Hypochondriac and
hy•teric comP.laint1.- Bleeding from different organs.- Gastric and blUI:!ns disor-
ders. - ScrC>pltulOUI, rhachitic complaints. - Olteomalacia and ctirvation of the
bones. - Scraping and boring in the periosteum. - Painfol oltitu (inftammatlon
of the bones), soltletime8' after miluse ofmercury, and inveterate syphiti!.-Carits.
-Deep-red hot tumefiwtion ofsingle p11rta.- Glandular tumefitctions;
Sensation of heaviness in the whole body. - The body, and the mee bloated
witb a tumid belly.- Chorea ftlncti Viti.
·External inftamtMtions with 'tendency to suppuration. - Ulcers With bard,
livid margins, very sensible to the touch. - Thin, ichorom ltinking pui.
Orat inclimttion to sleep.- Many dreams, mo8tly cheerful.
Sensation ofheat in the fitce, without thirst, attended with n;nxiety and drowsi-
ness after eating.
Hypochondriac and hys(eric restie&snel!l and anxietg. - Unsteadiness. - Ill
humor and aversion to labor.- Great irritation, with ind~rence to all things.
.Confusion and turning in the hl!ad. -'- Squeezing pressing dullness with diffi-
clflt thinking. - Dullnese ofsensei!, withOut decrease of conscioll!lness.
Pain in the head, di!!lappearing bf1 tomhing, or changing into paim ofan other
kind. - Stunning tension in the head. - Dull piercing or presl!ing, as iffrom a
plug, frotn inside to outBit,fe, espeeitiDy ift tfte forehead, tlie side• ofthe Aeadand
the templell. -'- CJonstnnging headiibhe.- Congeltion to the head and throbbing in
it; - Spasmodic pain in the forehead; above the eyebrows.
Pain, as if there were sand in the eyes (ophthalmodynia arenosa) with sensa-
tion of coldnee~~. ..o::... Burning fit. the eye• With comprelll!ion of the lids, all if from
sleapiness. ..:.... Ufiple81!3nt·dryneii8 hi the eyes;- Quivering of the. eyelids.- Ob-'
scuration of the eyes, when writing.
Earache With·squeezing...:..D,wcoia With pUrulent discharge from the ear, after
misU8e ofmetctiry.
Pain in the nose, like pressing outward, especiaUy in the wings. - Tightness
with numbnels on the na~al-bone1.- Discharge of a greenish, fretid, purulent matter
from the 1101e. ·
Pain in the face, mostly straining, with benu.mbedness ·in the facial, especially
in the zygomatic bone1. - Pressing forward in the face. - Dull ltp.ieezing on the
chin.- Spasmodic pain in the lower jaw.- Swelling of the lips with pricking.
Dry mouth with burning and soreness. ~ sense of dryness in ll moist mouth.
Pain in the throat, M iffrom a riling body in the IAiophagUI, with pressure
therein.- Burning, dryne81 and soreness in the IA1ophogus, with straining, when
swallowing.- Oesophagitis. ·
Taste rrtoslly bitfet, rancid O'r futty.- Jntripid taSte wifh nausea, aS if from a
vitWICM etO'Ji'WiOii; ~- BY grtii;S ffiOd. -'- ATersion to beet, which hail a alirily
taMeI
Digitized by Coogle
78 Assa fretida.- Aurum.
Eructation, ofa garlic-like or acrid, rancid tae&e.
Pre•wre in the •tomach with IMainiDg and fVing in tlae GriOJtUgu, after eatift8:.
-Contracting cramp in the stomach.-Senlllltion u ifbruilecl, and.{tllnea in tla~
regilm of the •tomach. - Burning in the stomach and about the diapbrapa. -
Gastritis. - Visible and sensible puUtllWn in the pit ofthe etomach.
Pain in the liver moetly preuiRg or stinging. - Piercing in the bypochoaden.
from inside outward, when breathing.
Abdominal pain with excessive uneasinet!IIJ in the abdomen and troubleeome
apprehellllion.- Pressure and •hooting pain i11 the ride• ofthe ~- Excee-
sive distellllion of the abdomen. - HeaviJ&eu in the abdomen, with ooldnet!IIJ, e.
peeially after drinking.- Stinging about the naveL- GripingjUibllml colic.
Alvine obstruction with discharge ofmuch f<etid wind.-Much urging to stool,
with costiveness or tardy, difficult, indurated feces. - Brown, pappy, yellowiell,
fmtid, purging •tools, mostly with pain in the i~o~Mle and eecape ofmuch wind.
Pressing outward in the perirueum.
Urine brown, ofan acrid, pungent smelL- Spama ia t1e hlotUer, dfllf'ifag art4
ofter urinstirag.
Pressing towards the genitals, with pain in the testieles.
Menstruation too early and in too amall a qpantity. - Pre.iog, reeembJins"
pangs towards the uterus.
Hoarse hacking cough with asthmatic aJfection in the trachea.
Oppreuion ofthe che•t, especially when lying down after dinner, with~
ated reBpirat«m and small pulse.- Spumodic uthmatic sensation, u if the hmg&
could not be sufficiently extended.
Pressure on the breast with stinging, eapecially on lying down, with difficult
hiccupping respiration. - Presring in the eternutn. - Stitches from the inside of
the breast outward. - Pulsation and throbbing in the brea.t. - Plllpitctiett oftlw
heart.
Violent pain in the back.- Piercing pain in the lumbar muscles.
Frequent twitching ofthe musclee in the arms and Amull.- Rigidity 8lld num~
ness of the hands.
_Arthritis ischiatiea.- Twitching ofthe mUIClee in tile leg• andfeet. - Rigidity
and numbness ofthe feet.- Cold ~UJeUing arotlnd the an/dee.- .Painful tlaro66iag
in the big toe.
26. Aurum.
Gold. - Germ. Blcttgold. - Awr11• f•li•tw..
Duration ofeffect: about 40 days.
Antidotee: belladonna, ·cinchona, cuprum, hydrargyrum.
Used 118 antidotefor: spigelia.
Predominsnt effects: Pain as ifbeaten with a disabling rending, cbiefty ill t.M
extremities and particularly in the joints, exaeerbated when uncovering the parta.
and in the morning; after awaking, at rest; disappearing after risinr.- Shoiiaf
Digitized by Coogle
Aurum. 79'
pain in the limbs attended with exceeding weaknees.- Nodofu goot.- Scrophu-
lous complaint&- DiMwilere tmd complaint• caueed by miltue ofmercury.-Invet-
erate syphilis.- O.titie with DOOtur'nal pain. - Caries. - Droplical tumifactitm,
ofaingle organs or of the wlwle body. - Very acute and nice feeling, with ezcu-
rive 8U1Ceptibility of every pain. - Hypochondriac and hyeteric complaint~ and
cramp• with alternating laughing and crying. - Gastric and bilious complaint&-
Great 8ensibility to cold, or great inclination to the open air, even during unpleas-
ant weather, the patient feeling well in it.
Rhagades.- Carcinomatous and mercurial ulcer/f.
SleePinellf, after dinner.- Nigh~eep enduring only till 4 o'clock in the mor-
ning.- In the morning, after awaking, unrefreshed, tired and weak.- Restleflll
sleep with anzioul dream~J. - Nocturnal delirium.
· General febrile lfhfvering, in the evening in bed, without thirst and not suo-
.ceeded by heat. - Coldne88 of the whole body, attended with blue naillf, insipid
taste and inclination to vomit and sometimes succeeded by increased warmth.-
Heat in the face with cold hande and feet. - Profuse, general perspiration in the
morning.
Melancholy with rutle~Jmeu and desire for death.- lrruilftible inclinatitm to
weep.- Desire after relations,.like home-sickness.- Great a~ty, anwoaching
micide, with spasmodic contraction in the abdomen. - Excessive hesitation. -
Detpair abou.t himlfelj and other/f. - Crabbed aversion to speak. - MeltJncholic
and quarrellfome. - Irritable and impetuoue.-Alternation of merriment, irritabiJ..
ity and dolefulnell.
We8k memory.- Imbecile power of thought.
Fatigue by mental labour. - Budden inaensible dullness.
The 'head achee, a if beaten, in the rooming or in mental e:rertion8, superin.-·
..illlilcing a confusion ofideas. -Pain in the head, as ifair were passing through it,
~en it is not kept warm.-:- Rending headache.~ Cleaving and throbbing on one
side of the head. - Arthritic paroxysms in the head. - Conge1titm to the he~. -
· Raging and roarjng in the head, in hysteric persoD& ,
Painfulnell of the bone• of the crtinium, when lying down. - Nod;. on the •
head.- The hair fulling oft:
Pain in the eyes, increased by touching, as ifthe eyeballs would be pressed in-
ward. - Teneitm in the eye• with diminished power ofsight. - Burning pain in
tbe eyes with redness.- Oph~itis serophuloea. - Protruded eye1.- Speckl
on the cornea. - Amauroril from palsy of the optic nerves. - Horizontal hemiop-
sia. - &intillatitm tmd,Jre bemre the eyes. (Photopsia.)
Earache, like a tension in the internal ear. - Carie• oftAe mattoid procu1.-
Fetid purulent discharge from the ears. - Difficult hearing, from the elongation
ofthe tonsils, attended with difficult ~·- Buzzing ill the earl.
Pain in the na~al bone, when 'touched.- Pricking in the noee. - Red, in11am-
matory swelling of the noee. - Cariu .in the nose. -The cavity of the nose sore
and covered with thick scabe.-Carcinoma of the noee.-Porraceous, fetid, puru-
lent discharge from the noee. - The epidermill of the nose furfuraceous peeling
oft: - Exquisite &ellle ofsmelling. - Sweetish .or putrid or whisky-like 1110ell in
the nose.
Digitized by Coogle
80 Aurum.
The face bloated and shining, u if from sweat. - I~ of tM fllrial
bones.- Th11U!ftJCtion oftJae cheeb. - Swelling of the tiolital bone, the upper-jaw
and nual bones. - On the forehead and the noe a red deequamatio« eruption.-
Drawing in the jaw with swelling,ofthe cheek&- &roinirtg ,-.in the tlpfl«'•
jt111J.- Pain in the submuillary gland&
Tootlw.che with llcat of* head, from congestion to the head. - LoolleDHI of
the teeth. - Parulis 'vith swelling of the cheek.
Offensive 611U!ll out of the moulh, putrid 118 iffrom stale cheeae. - Boring pain
in the palate.- Cariu in the palate.
Taste, milky or sweet.- Avenrion to food, espeeially to meat. - Ex«!!Sive de-
sire for coffee. - Strong hunger- end thirat.
Pain in the stomach, as from hunger. - Exct'SI!ive soreness in the pit of the
stomach. - SweUing of the pit of the stomach and hypochonders with ltingiog
pe.in, when touched.
Abdominal pains with uneasiness in the belly and eflbrts to IJI8ol. - Stretching
presstll'e and fulneM in the hypogastrium. -Distended abdomen.- Bony exel'el-
cence in the cavity of.the pelvis.- Inguinal herni«, especially bt childern.-,..._
truded inguinal hernitt. - Nocturnal flatulent colic with gripillg, grumbling and
rambling in the hypogastrium. - Frequent t>xpoleion ofnry fetid \ltind.
CopiouB alvine e1!tJCU(Jtio118.- Nocturnal diatrh~a.
8upprused diBcharge ofurine. - Painful retentio urin<e with urging and pres-
sure upon the bladder.- Frequent discharge ofaqueous urine.- .Muddy urine,
like butter-milk, with much slimy sediment.
Excited sexual pa!lSion. - ExcessiYe affection of the whole gerlital sywtem.-
Noctunud erection~ and pollutionB. - Discharge of the prostatic fluid from a lax
penis. - .Swelling ofthe testicles with squeezing pain when touched alld rubbed.
-Induration ofthe- testiclet.
Induration and prolapBUB uteri.
•
Flowing or checked catarrh. - Obstruction ofthe noee.
Much phlegm in the trachea and in ~he breast, hawked up with difficulty in
, the morning.
Conatriction of the breut, at night and when walking in the open air, requir-
ing deep inspirations. - Su.ffocating atttJCks tcith Cmutringing oppreisioh ofthe
chest.
Pain in the breast, as iffrom an pbtuse plug- below the ribs. - Coittinual p~
sure in the left side of the bnlast. - Dull cutting and stinging nenr the stemlltn.
- Excessive congestion to the breast and Yehement palpitatiort. of t/U heart, -
Tedious disorders of the heart.
Pain in the back, mostly pressing or rending and 110 t~ehement, that it ptevents
moving the limbs early in the morning.
Pressing pain in the upper- and fore-arms. - 8palm and rending itt the wrists
and metacarpal bones. - Disabling Nnding in the bones and jomu oftMJttgert.
Ischial. - Rending in the thighs in the morning and eTening. - Pabtf\Jt dis-
ability of the knees, 118 ifthey -were underbound, attended'with weakni!!JII and ~~
ing. - Diabling drawing and rending in the bone• and jflinU ofthe toet.
Digitized by Coogle
Badiaga.- Barytre cai:'bonas.
27. Badiaga.
(A BuuiGn Gig•.)
. Duration ofeffect: about 40 days.
After it a1U1wer1 well: Lachesis.
81
Scrophulous inflammation of the eyes, induration and suppuration ofglands.
-Disorders in manhood, after the scrophula has disappeared in puberty. (It is
~xternally used in Russia 88 a popular remedy for the livid marks of blows and
bruises, which it is said to take away in a few hours.)
I'(B . Symptomo of tbio roROe4y will •• publioho4 by Habaemaaa.
28. Barytre carbonas.
Duratimt ofeffect: about 50 days.
Antidote: camphors.
It aiUIWerl well after: tartras aotimlrui, in paralysis ofthe lungs.
After it a~U~Werl well: tartras antimooii, in affections of the breast of aged
people.
Predmnirumt e.ffecu: Pains in the joint.!J and hollow bonee.- Squeezing, or
drawing with weakneee, or teuion, 88 ifshortening of the tendons, in different
parts. - Rheumatism with chilly shiverings. - Nocturnal twitching in the mu-
clu, 10metime• all ower the lxHly.- Jerking and starting ofsingle limbe. and of the
whole bOdy, in the daytime.- The eomplaints chiefty att.aek the left side, mostly
~ting in sitting and disappearing by exercise in tile open air. - &roph11.lou&
.,.pltrint1.- Tumefilction and induration ofgland&
Heaflineu in the whole lxHly. - Exceuive affection and irritation of all the
~ - Great weak.nees and i¥rmity, which prevents standing. - Inclintltion
to lie down or to sit.- General mental, nervotU and lxHlily tDeakne~•, especiaDy in
old men. - EmaciGtion or bloatedne88 ofthe body and the fiace with tumid abdo-
men, in children.- Apopluy with paralym, in aged persons. - Great liability
to take cold, espeeially inflammation ofthe throat from it.
Itching, crawling and burning •titche• on different partl. - Nocturnal itching
and unpleuant crawling over the whole body. - Sore and oozing lfHJtl on the
ekia.- Skin diftlcult to be healed.- Wartl.- Panaritis.
Drowsiness in the daytime.,- Coma 'lligil both day and night. - Restleee Bleep
at night, with tiequent awaking and anxious dreams. - Nocturnal agitation of
the blood, exca.ive palpitation of the heart, a sensation 88 if sore in the heart,
and great anxiety, with inability to lie on the left side.
Inclination to chillineu.-.
Chilly shivering with gooee-skin and bristling ofthe
hairs, or tension in the moe. - Shivering originating in the pit of the stomach or
in the face, succeeded byfiuahea ofbeat. - Night-~~Deall. - Hectic fever.
Inclination to weep.- Avoiding otJmfiOny.-Anxious10Iicitude about domestic
.na;r.. - E~w apprehenrion and irrewlutioR with 8U8piciousneae and want
Digitized by Coogle
Barytre carbonas.
. ' '
ofself-confidence.- Timidity and cowardice.- Reluctance to play, in children.-
Sudden irritation about trifling thinga.- Rutlu• activity.
Excessive frwgetfulnus. - Inattention ofchildren while .rning.
Giddiness with namea and headache, from 1tooping.
Headache, mostly pressing and particularly in the forehead, immedilltelg G6owe
the eyes and the root of the nose, or, with tension in the occiput, towarde the neck.
-Stinging headache, especially near a warm stov~.- Mooting in \he h~d, with
a sensation, as if the brain were loose.
Tenderness of the scalp. - Liability to take cold in the head. - Itching an<J
pricking .on the scalp.- Eruption~ and dry •cab• on the head. - Baldne11. ·
Pre8Bure and·burning in the eye•, especially when straining the sigllt. - I~
jlamniations of the balls and lide ofthe ey~ with soreness, seJ188tion ofdryness
and photophobia.- Swelling ofthe eyes in the morning.- Suppurative cementing
qfthe eyelide. - Dimsightedness.- Flying webs and dark specks before the eyeJJ.
-Coruscation before the eyea in the dark.- Blinding ofthe eyea from light.
Itching on the ears.- Nocturnal throbbing in the ears when lain upoo.-
Eruption on and behind the eare. - Tumefaction of the parotidea. - Dyeecoia.-
Tinkling and buzzing befrwe the ear•.- Knpcking ud cracking in tAe earl, ·111hea
8tDallowing, sseezing and walking quickly.
Epiltaxil, after blowing .the nose. - Se~ under the noee.- Very delicate
smell.
The face d!Jrlc-red, with purple-red lips and strong agitation of the blood. -
8eD88tion of swelling and tightnen in the face, u ifnwere coftred with apidera'
web. - Inflammatory pain in the face with •training turaefaction.- EnqJtton a
tAe face. - Ortuta loctea. - Dry cracked lips. - When compreuing the jaws, a
severe pain in the joint. - Swelling ofthe lttbmarillary glanth.
Toothache, only in the evening in bed, not in the daytime.- Drawing, ~
bing and jerking in the teeth, extending to the ear and the temples. - B~
stings in carious teeth, when touched by warmth.- TOGth.ache before the meme•,
or after taking cold, with pale-red 8tDeUing ofthe gufAII and the cheek.-Bleeding
of teeth and the gums.
Dry mouth.- Increued collection of1!181iva.- Offensive smellout ofthe mouth.
- Inflamed vesicles in the mouth and on the tongue. - Sore burning cracks ia
the tongue.
Pain in the thrHt, after'tGking cold, fDith 8tDeUittg oftbe palate aud the toarils,
which suppurate. - Sen~ation u if a plug tM-e i, the tirotlt. - Choking aDd
contracting in the throat. - Pricking and 1'88ping pain in tle throat, .,,_ ani-
lowing.
Tate bitter or vitiated, monly in the morning, with an exuaively furred
tongue. - Sour tiJ8te, chiefty before, not after eatiag. - Coatinual thirst. - Di-
mfnilhed appetite and sudden satiety, the meals relidiflg. - After dinner un_.
ness, sluggishne&l! and avendon to labour.- ,Ineigeltiml.
Eructation aftereating.- Much vacant and sour eructation.-Tedious nauaea.
Stomach-ache, while fasting, <ifter: eabing, and when touehing \he pit of the
Stomach. - Tendeme&l! and pain in the pit of the stomach, with every step. -
Pree111.re, heaviness and fulne88 in the ltomach and the eerobieulus cordis, after a
Digitized by Coogle
Barytre carbonas. 83
IIJIIall meaL - &retUJU in tlae regitm qfthe ttomach, ~ith a l!ensation during eat-
ing, as ifevery bit were to be forced through BOre spotl!. - Gastrit•.
Pain in the abdomen, relieved by eructation and external warmth.- -Painful
4nflation and distension of the abdomen. -Belly-ache with ~etraction of the naveL
-Griping and C1t.ttiJ&K in the abdomen, with effortli to stool, as if diarrham would
originate.- Accumulation ofwiad in the abdomen.
Stool difficult and clotty, or hard and insufficient.- Frequent effort. to •tool
with an an.riotu lf1Jart in the lumbar region, shivering over the thighs and suc-
ceeded by •oft or purging 1tool.- Sudden, ha1ty evacuation~, which scarcely can
be retained. - Discharge of lumbrici. - Hamwrrhcndal tumour• with stinging
pain. - Itching, burning, 1orene11 and moisture on the anm.
Urging to urinate, and frequent copiOUI urinating.- Sudden halty urinal dil.
eltlzrg~ which scareely can be retained. ·
Diminil/&ed 1e~ pulion. ancl aoeak 1exual power. - Falling asleep during
cohabitation without emission of&emell.- &weneu tm6 moilture between the •oro-
twa ancl the thigl&..
Diminiahed sexual passion in women. - Menses too short and too small in
quantity.- Leucorrhc:ea immediately preceding the menses.- Before the menses,
toothache with swelling of the gums, or pain in ibe tzbdomen and heavine11 in the
·legs; during the menaes abdominal pa.i.ne.
Flowing catarrh with dry cough and hollow deep voice. - Copious discharge
oEthick mucus from the noee. - Uneasy dryness of the nose.
Hoarseness and aphonUJ/ratA viscid llime in the larynx and the breat.
D'flllj cough in the evening."'- Night-eottgh with furred tongue and chest sur-
charged with phlegm.
. Asthmatic afteetion. - Paralylil ofthe lungs, and choking rheum. . '
Pains in the breast, which are relieved by eructation or ext~rnal warmth.-
~ fulneel!l and heavineM in the breast , especially when IIIJCending, connec-
ted with stitches, when breathing.- &rong heart-beating.- Palpitation ofthe
heMt, when lying on the left side, or renewed when thinking ofit.
Paim in the back, WOl'l!e when sitting, than when moving. - Straining stijf-
neu in the back, womt in the evening, 10 that one can neither rise, nor bend back-
ward.-Straining in the shoulder-blades, the neck, and the muscles of the throat,
especially in rough, cold air.- Burning and throbbing pullation in the back, es-
pecially after emotions of the mind. - Stiffness of the nape. - Stinging ·in the
nape. - P•im in the bones oftlte neck. - Stea~me in the neck, with burning in
the depth.- Glandulotu ~t~~elling in the neck and on the throat, 88 hard as a stone.
Swelling of the arms with pain in the azillary gland~. - When raising the
arm, pain in the 'deltoid-muscle,- Benumbness of the arme when lying upon.
- Cold haDds with livid epota. - Swollen Teinl and redness of the hands.-
Parchment-like dryness <1f the bands.-Trembling of the hands, when writing.-
Excessive crawling and prickling i11 the palm of the hands, with provocation to
friction. - The skin ofthe back of the hands and tips ofthe Jingel'8 peeling oft:
-Numbness of the fingers. - Panaritia.
Pain in the kip-joint, as ifit were wrenched or stiti - Tightne11 in tie kgs,
as if the tendons were too short. - Drawing and ~itag in the kg•, 1111 ifin the
Digitized by Coogle
Barytre carbonas.- Barytre murias.
bones.-Itching on the thighs, at night. -Stinging pain in the joints of the knees.
- Straining in the skin and the calfof the leg. - Spasm iD the calvee and toea.
when stretching o-qt the parts. - Restleamees and trembling in the lege and feeL
- Pain in the foot-joints, 88 ifsprained. - Stinking foot • - ' · - Ulcen on the
feet. - Painful lymphatic swelling on the ball of the big toe.- Pain in the callous
skin of the soles, when '!alking, 88 ifc;oms.- Corm with a burning stinging and
pinching.
29. Barytre murias.
Atony, so excessive, that he cannot keep himself up.- Relaxation and decreas-
ing of power, he can scarcely move a limb.- Syneope.-In11exibility and insen-
sibility, with periodical convulsion&- Universal disability.- Trembling limb&-
Convulsive trembling. - Twitching in the face, or single limbe, or all over the
body. - Periodical convulsive attacks with eoncWI8ious, throwing the body about.
- Death with vomiting and convulsions.
Pricking in the skin.-On epots void of the cuticle, a burning and prieking.-
Dermatitis.- Small scabby eruption on the head, neck, abdomen, and thighs.-
Serophulre.- Increased excitation in inflamed suppurating glands, augmented
secretion of pus,·redness, and cicatrization. - Hremorrhages.
Universal dry heat, day and night.- Rednees and heat in the face.- Pulee
frequent, full. - Tertiana. - Increased·perspiration.- Cold sweat.
Vehement anxiety with cardialgia, nausea and vomiturition.
Vertigo, turning before the eyes. - The hesd affected and heavy.- Headache
with vomiting.
Scabs; very purulent eruption on the I!Cftlp.- Scabious eruption on the head
and throat. - Itching eruption in the neck.
The eyes motionless. - Catarrh of'the eyes, ears and nose. - Deafness when
vomiting.- Dilated pupils with starim~ and insensibility.
Drawing in the facial muscles.- Near the tip of the nose a sore node, minutely
pricking.
Pricking, pulsating toothache, chiefly after sleeping, after midnight. - Loose
teeth.
Swelling of the salivary glands and the p8late.-Furred tongue.-The tongue
and mouth dry. - Stench from the mouth, as if from mercury.- Putrid taste in·
the mouth, also of the food.- Loss ofappetite. - Thirst. - Difficult swallowing.
Loathing. - Inclination to vomit.- Vomiturition. - Vomiting in the morning:
connected with anxiety.- Vomiting ofa small quantity of nauseous matter.
Weak stomach.- Pressure and spasm in thestomach.-A sensation ofwarmth
arising from the stomach to the breast and head. - Burning in the stomaeh with
vomiting.- The membranes in the stomach blue-red with red spot in .the mus-
cular part. - The fundus ofthe stomach inflamed with isolGted ecchytn(Mt8.
/
Tumefaction of the liver.- WormsicknesB.
Burning pain in the abdomen.
Digitized by Google
Barytz murias. - BelladoQna. 86
The fileees eo•eted with llime, poJ'I'IIAleOua, and curdled.- 8oft lltooL-Tedioue
diaJThrea without Yiseeral pain. - En~ritill and enterorrhagia.
Freqttent urinating, inYoluotary and paiofuL - Diabetes.- White eediment
in the urine.- (Gooorrh01a aeeuodaria.)- (Swelling ofthe teetieles.)
Frequent seminal emil!aions. - The meDIM excited. - Squeezing pain io the
eavity of the pelvis.
Ca&!m-h and heat. - In the upper part of the breast internal ~t. - Oppres-
sion of the eheet.
Asthma humidum.-Cough.- Aooelerated heart-beating. - Palpitation of the
heart. - When dead, the heart beats yet for a long while. - The ventricle of the
heart filled with coagula.
Pain in the back. - In the arm a peiDlea~ jerking, chiefiy at night.-.Cramp
in the toee. - Straining in the .
thigh& - Tumefaction of the banda and feet. -
(Dropsy after IIC&flet-fever.)
30. Belladonna.
Duration ofeffect: in acute C8&e8 a few days, in chronical C8&e8 about 60 days.
Antidotes: coffea, hyoscyamus, pulsatilla, sulphuretum calcis, vinum; in Ca&e8
of poisoning coffea tosta.
U1ed a• antidote for : aurum, cuprum, ferrum, hydrargyrum, platina, plum-
bum, sulphuretum calcis; -cinchona, conium, hyoscyamus, senega, stramo-
nium, toxicodendron, valeriana; crotalus and Lachesis.
It anBtDerB weU qfter: acidum arseniosum , acidum nitricum, hydrargyrum,
sulphuretum·calcis.
Acetum applied after it, frequently causes exacerbation.
I
Predominant effect•: Rheumatic paim, pressing and rending, chiefiy in the
eztremities. - Stinging in the limbs. - Pain in the joints and bones, as if beaten.
- Bilious and ga~tric complaints, eepecially with a •our tate of bread. - Bad
effects of fear or grie£- Dilordersfi·om taking cold.- Rhachitic and scrophulous
complaint& - Jaundice.- Bad consequences from misuse of valeriana and mer-
cury.- Congestion ofblood to different orgam.-InjlamfiWtion of~nternal orgam,
with inclination to suppuration, or with nervott1 complaints.- E:rceuive irrita-
bility ofall the ~en~es. - Hysteric attacks ofa spasmodic kind.- Convttlliom and
cramp• in single limbs and of the whole body.- ConwlsionB of children, caused
by obstinacy.- Backward bending cramps. - TetantU.- Convulsive fits with
•tlffnel• ofthe whole body and clinched thumbs.- Epileptic conwllionB.- Before
the attacks smiling, or sensation of numbnet!S and formication in the shoulder-
joint, or cutting pain in the abdomen, with determination to the head, and un-
consciousness; after the att~aeks, oppreSsion of the chest, u from a weight.-
The attacks returning from the letl.lt touch.- Apoplectiq ,Ju, sometimes nervotU,
with paralym ofBingle paru.
8
Digitized by Coogle
Bellad()nna.
·Restleameu, heavineee and eoldneee of the limbe. - 'I'remhling of tM ez·
tremities, when walking.-Liu!eitude and tiredneee, eapt>eially in the lega.- Faint.
neM with agitation of the blood and congestion to the head. - Corpulent and
plethoric habit.- Bloated body and face with a tumid abdomen, in children.
Uniform, 8f1100th, shining scarkt-redne81 of the tkin, with dryneBB, heGt, itch·
ing, burning and bloatedncss of the part8 affected, especially on the face, neck.
breast, abdomen and hands.- Smooth, genuine scarlet-fever.- Elevated, eon-
fluent scarlet-spots on the limbs.- &orlet-red purples over the vmole body.-
Measles.-Vesicular eruption with 8C8bs, whitish border, and <edematous swelling.
- Carbuncles. - Furuncle•, returning every spring. - Stings of bees. - Chil-
blains.
Sleepiness in the daytime with restless sleep at night.- Coma vigil. - Sopor.
- The sleep prevented by anxiety or perturbed by anxious dreams. - Frightful
phantasms, and jerks when closing the eyes. - Fearful starting d11ring tleep
with staring eyes.- Nocturnal reveries .and deliria with restlessness and agoniz-
ing to88ing about.- Nightmare.
Chilly shiverings on the shoulders and the back, with nau&'a. - Shaking
chills with sorene88 and drawing in the back and the limbs. - Chills and coldne88
of single parts (of the extremities), while other parts (as the head) are affected
with burning heat.- Alternately chill and heGt.- Evening-fever, first shivering,
then heat with thirst, congestion to the head and pressure in the fore!tettd.- Night-
fever.- Quotidian, double quotidian and tertian fever.- Shivering or vehement
chill in the back, or in the pit of the stomach, or on the a_rms.- Small slow pulse.
-Continual ~ever with exacerbation in the evening.-Universal constant internal
and external burning heat with restlessness.- Quick, hard, tense pul&'.- Throb-
bing of the arteries. - Inflammatory, catarrhal, rheumatic, pituitous, putrid,
puerperal, milk- or typhus-fever with unconsciousness, or with t•ehement deliria,
attended with screeching, raging, tossing of the extremities and flinging.
Sadne88 and hypochond.-iac dejection.- Crying, shrieking, and fretful whining
ofchildren. - Anxiety and restlessness. - Timidity and despondency.-'Distrust-
fulness. - Complaining fearfulness and inclination to run away. -Easily to be
frightened. - Disinclination to speak. - Aversion to labour and exercise. - Ex-
cessive caprice.- Insanity and fury with biting, spitting, flinging, bellowing and
tearing things. - Impudence. - Hasty speaking, reaching about and grasping
with the hands in the air.
Unconsciousness antl obstupefaction. - Senselessness and thoughtlessness. -
Confusion of mind after fright and grief. - Insanity with ridiculous jests. - Fan-
tastic illusions with frightful visions.- Delirium. - Reveries.- Forgetfulne88.-
Inability to express himself properly.
Intoxication and reeling, especially after eating and drinking. - Giddiness,
with anxiety and unconscious falling on the left side.- Vertigo with nausea, and
gliateriug before the eyes, especially when stooping and rising.
Headache, every day, from 4 o'clock in the afternoon until 3 o'clock in the
morning, exacerbated by warmth of the· bed and lying down.- Headache after
taking cold in tM head. - Stunning headache, chiefly in the forehead, with un-
q,nsciousness, or with a sensation, as if the head would fly open. - Periodical
Digitiz~d by Coogle
Belladonna. 87
mrvom headache. - Squeezing, sensation of distension and pressing Munder in
the brain.- ~ending and stinging in the head.- Jerking he~ache, when rapidly
walking and ascending steps. r- Congestion, to the head, with internal and external
lt.eat of it, and with disten&ion and throbbing of the veins in it. - Pltrenitis. -
Hydrocephalus internus. - Bubbling in the head, 88 from water. - The head-
ache increases by moving the eye!!, jarring, leaning on, or bending backward and
by draft of air. - Pains in the head, which become relieved by leaning on or
bending backward.
Sensation, ns if the cranium were too thin. - Spa8IIlodic pain in the scalp.-
Profuse perspiration in the hairs. - Shaking of the head or bending backward of
it.- Mooting on the pillows with the backpart ofthe head.
Pain in the orbits. - Vehement preiiSure through the eyes into the head. -
Congestion of blood to the eyes with turgid.veins in them. - Heat in the eyes. -
Itching and burning of the eyelids. - Retl mollified conjunctiva.- Inflammation
of the eyes with swelling , redness and ever&ion ofthe eyelids. - Inflammation of
the eyes from taking cold, in newbOrn infants as well, as in arthritic and seroph-
ulous persollB. - Fungus medullaris in the eye. - The sclerotis of a yellowish
hue. - Maculce cornece. -Dim, weak, lustreless, or shining, red, sparkling eyes.
- Wild, unsteady look. - Continual efflux ofacrid burning tears. - Cohesion of
the eyelids, and bleeding, when opening them. - The eyelids heavy and billing
down as if palsied. -Halfopen, protnuled, staring eyes.- .IJiMortion, spann and
convulsion of the eyes, caused by light.- Dilated pupils.- Dimness ofsight, 11.1
if mist before the eyes.- Night- blindness commencing with the evening twilight.
-Amaurosis from paralysis of the optic nerve.
s.- Squi7'ting.- Diplopia.-
Variegated radiance around the candle, and red colours on objects.-Photopsia.-
Shunning light. - Light-hunger.
Spnsm in the ears with boring and screwing.- Stinging in an~ behind the
ears. - Rending and stirigin'g from the parotides into .the cesophagus. - Inflam-
matory swelling of the parotides.- Inflammation of the internal and external ears
with a purulent discharge.- Dysecoia from taking cold in the head. -Tinkling,
roaring and rustling in the ears.
The nose, when touched, aching as if bruised, with burning.- Pricking in
the nose during night. - Inflammatory swelling and redness of the internal and
extef.nal nose. - Hcemorrhagia from the nose and the mouth. - Delicate sense of
$melling.- Diminished smelling.- Putrid stench from the nose.
. Red face with burning heat.- Blueish-red, blaated face. - Pale sunken face
with distorted an.riom features.- Jaundiced' colour of the face.- Changeable
colour of the face, from blueish- red t0 pale.- Convulsive motions of the face and
mouth, which is drawn obliquely towards the ear.- Vehement cutting nervou.
.paiR in the face. - Onesided swelling of the face. - Ery&ipeltJs. and erysipelatO'I.IS
8WeUing oftheface.-Condensation of the skin in the face.-Disagreeable itching
and tickling upon the cheek-bone and on the side of the nose. -Crusta lactea.
Deep-red lips.- Parched 6!ry lips.- Swelling and induration of the lip3.-
Eruptions at the angles of the mouth, painful to tbe touch.- The mouth 1uJ1j
optm, or spasmodically closed by trismus.-Rending in the jaws.- Stinging and
straining in the joint of the jaw.- I'lflammation and swelling oftl&e ~
glands.
Digitized by Google
88 Belladonna.
Toothache from taking cold, chiefly with the remale eex.- Toothache, wbicb
iracrt!4Uu to caviolent tkgree by touching, admiMion ofair and ecatiftg.-GD811biag
of the teeth.- SwelliDg ofthe gums, with ~~~ and burning.
DrJne•• oftlu! tnOUtA ll1itlwut tAir.t. - Senaation ofdryne., wbilet the mouth
is moist and elimy.- &litiCition with the fever·paroX)'8111&- Reddiah frotl br,fure
the 1IIOI&tA. - .btlfcamtncatory ftllelling cand retlneu of tM irlterior of tM tnOUtA nd
soft ptJlok.- Hot, parched, cracked tongue.- T1ae tongve bright-red on ite
edges, whilet the middle ie covered with a white fur.- White, yellow or elimy
furred tongue. - l'lflamffti.IWry weUing of tAe tongue. - Heavy tongue with
embsl1llll!ed speech.- Stammering.- Nuallieping speech.- Speecllkuneaa.
Pain in the throat, 88 if from ewelling or from a lump in the a!BOphagus,
which requires hawking.- Spam in the cuoplacagtu, tDith tl~t, painful, ob-
atf"IICUtl.wcallorDing (dysphagia), whereby every liquid in its pa~e partly comes
out through the noee.- &m"catiora of comtriction in tM cuopiUJgtu.- Continual
urging to ~. - &inging and preseing in the cuophcagw and the &oll8ils,
10hen IUHJllotoing or epeaking.-Excessive tlrynua and burning in tbe cuopluJgu.
- Inj1Mnf114lion ofthe throat with ewelling of the uvula and the velum palatinum.
- Injfamflllltion, .weUing and .upyurfltiora oftlu! tomiu.- Oeeophagitia.
Agetuia.- Bitter or putrid or slimy taete in the mouth.- &w.r tate ofbread.
- Excemive Imming thirst with disinclination to liquids, or fDitA eontinuallongi711f
for drink, and incabUity to .wallow.-Tormenting hunger.- Anorexia.- Tetliou
loathing offood.- Aversion to milk, beer and acids.
Ineffectual inclination to eruptate.-Vacant or putrid eructation. - Return of
food with pre88ure in the stomach.- Hiccupping.
Natuea tDith catJeraion to food, and bitter tute.- Nausea and 'IIOflliturition.-
Vomiting of slime, water, sour liquid or gall. -Vomiting \\'ith diarrhQl& aRer
taking a cold.- Hrematemeeis.
Preuure in tlu! stomach after eating.- Diatemion in tM pit of the stomach
with preseing pain, when walking.-Tedious spum in thestomacb.-Oppreesion
in the pit of the stomach.-Want oftone of the stomach.
Pain in the hypochondres.- Burning in the lei\ hypochondrium and the pit of
the stomach.- Hepatitis. - Nephritis with etinginA" burning pains in the lumbar
region..
Abdominal pain, preventing all rest. - Painful distention of the abdomen.-
Vehement tJiaceral pcain, below the navel, 88 if from seizing and graBping with
the naila, increased by external preeeure.- Hysteric colic.- Pain, 88 if raw and
sore in the abdomen. - Mooting belly-ache. - Stinging in the lei\ side of the ab-
domen when coughing, or·meezing, or when touched.- Stagnation ofthe blood
(hmmostaeia) in the abdomen. - Enteritis. - Stitches in the inguinal region. -
Sorene. of the abdominal teguments. - Itching on the abdomen. - Flatulent
colic, with distention of the colon, relieved by stooping fonDard and by external
preuure.
Olntrvcticm oftlu! abdomen.-Indurated, sparing s&ool.- Frequent small loose
evacuations ofslime.- Intloluntary atoou.- Diecbarge oflumbricoides.
. , &teation of urine.- Scanty, turbid, dark, or fire-red urine.- Frequent
18ging to urinate, espeeiaHy in tbe afternoon and evening, with diScharge of a
pale yellow urine.- Intloluntary diaehcarge ofuriRe while standing.
. Digitized by Google
Belladonna.
Diminished sexual paseion. - lnvoluntcwy seminal emi8rion.8 at night and
prostatic fluid in the daytime, with re.laxed penu.-Stinging in ~he tel!ticles, which
are drawn upward.
Vehement preuure towarth the genitals in females, as if all would full out.-
8punmu 8ptumodic labour.- Prolap3Us and induration ofthe uterus.- Congestion
of blood to the uterul!.- Inflammation ofthe labia majora and metritil!.- Metror-
rhagia after delivery.- Carcinoma uteri.- Nymphomania of women lying in.-
Puerperal fever.- Too small lochia.- Too early and too profuse menses.-~e
menstrual discharge too pale. - During the menstruation abdominal pains.- Ex-
eeasive dryness in the vagina. - DUcharge of blood during the intervals, - Me-
trorrhagia of a bright-red blood, or with discharge of stinking lumps of blood;
with bearing down towards the genitals. ·
/Jrtple1s of .the no~e. - Ftowing catarrh at one !!ide With stench before the
nose, 88 if from herrings.
Exceslive pain.{ubtess of the larynx, with anxious starting when' touching it,
~r when breathing, speaking or coughing. - Cnnstriction ofthe throat.- Catarrh
with oppression on the chest.-Tracheitis.
Cough with W!thmatic affection from congestion of blood to the breast or with
jerking stitches in the ischiatic region, as if the uterus wal! about to be tom loose.
-Cough with ejection of slime, after eating.- Night-cough, mostly dry, with
rending in the breast, or with catarrh and stitches in the sternum, or with a
8Jlorting noise in scrophulous persons.- Dry cough, day and night, with tiekling
in the throat-pit, or with headache and redness of the face. -Dry hacking cough.
- Dry 8pasmodic cough with vomiturition, especially after midnight.- Attacks
of hooping cough, preceded by whining or pain in· the stomach, or succeeded by
sneezing.- Cough with expectoration of blood.- Croup.- Bellowing cough.
Irregular, short or long, or short, quick anrious breathing, with groaning.-
Suffocatingfits, when •wallowing, or turning, or touching the throat.-VehE-ment
eDpiration.
PresBUre on the che•t with pain between the shoulder•blades and short breatlt-
ing.- Straining in the breast.- Hysteric spasm!! in the breast.- Stitches in the
breast with irritation to cough. - RestlessneM ·with tflrobhing in tlte breast. -
CongeBtion ofblaod to tlte breuBt.-Pneumonia.- Vehement !teart-beating, rever-
berating in the head. - Pressure about the heart, with anxiety and tremulous
movement ofit. - Swelling and induration of the mammary glands in femllles. -
Carcinoma of the breast.- Galactorrhrea.- Milk-fever•
. 8tijfneu ofthe taeek.- Painful Bwell6ng and stiffne88 ofthe throat and neck.-
Painful swelling ofthe gland• ofthe throat.- Tearing in the axilla's.
The anne as if benumbed and painful. - DiMbling drawing pressure and tear-
ing in the s.rms. - Inclination to stretch and tum the arms. - Lameneu tmd
Aetwineu of the arnu.- &4rlet-rerl BWeUing ofthe MmB and hands.- Pressing
reatling pain, quickly extendingfrom the slwulder through the arm, especiaHy at
nigld, relieved by extemal p1'81!18Ure upon ,·produced by motion. - Painful jerkB,
.spums and convulsions ofthe ·Cif'fM and lumdti.-Tremor ofthe hands.- Rending
pre~~ure in the WJ:iat and metaearpuL- Arthritic l!tiftiless of the wrist.- Euily
spraining the finger-jointL
Digitized by Coogle
90 Belladonna.- Berberis.
.
· Artiritil ilclaWticcr, with .mtgi.g, or periodic8Uy exaeerbated burDiDg fMin,
ex&ending from tle hiJI•jqmt to the groin, wone fit nigl&t, aDi ii'&Cf'e.aed bJ tile
leat touch. - Stiftheee in the bipe; rising with difficulty, after littio8'.- Luxatio
apont.anea. - Rertding in the leg•, particularly in the kneee. - Hemneu tmll
lMteMu of the leg• tmdfeet. - Knaeking of the legs and feet, when walking.-
Spumodic teDaion of the linewe of the boUow of the knee. ·- White ewelJing on
the tbifJh.- Oedema of the feet.
3t. Berberit~.
Predominant effect•: Squeezing, straining, urging and pressing pains.- Rt'n·
ding, drawing, upecially •hooting pain.- Sudden violent ttitchu, prGdueing starts.
- Burning 1titches.- Ardent pains, increa&ed by friction. - Rasping and burn·
ing pain iMide and outside of the body. - Seraping upon the bones. - Pains on
isolated spots as iffrom a blow. - Paine as if from spraining or wrenching, with
a sensation ofswelling, increased after exertion, lifting, or stretching.- Lassitude,
disability and soreness, increased by pressure ; frequently connected with etifibess
heavineee, vibration, benumbneee and torpor, also with a aensatioa, 88 ifswoUen.
- Transient sensation of warmth on different places. - Sensation ofeoldneee on
isolated spots, 88 if from cold metal, cold substances, or 88 if cold drope were
sprinkled.·- Bubbling 88 if from any thing alive, in the fteeh and the skin here
and there.- Varicous veins on many places.- Exacerbation in the afternoon.
by motion and pressure.
Lassitude, every triffing exertion fatigues, even .walking, standing or stooping.
- Pain 88 if beaten particularly in the lower extremities. - Exhaustion so 88 to
cause trembling, and knacking together of the knees. - Faintneu, with giddiness
or agitation of the blood, perspiration and beat of the upper half oftbe body, cold·
ness and saUowness of the fiiCe, and oppression on the cheat. - Anxiety when
moving, standing for a while, when rising from the chair, or the bed. ·
. In the skin much itching, biting, pricking and burning with minute stitches.
sometimes with increased sensation of warmth and with eruption.- Rasping and
pricking in the skin, increased by friction and frequently eueeeded by a red spot.
- Burning stitches. - Ugly red marble-like spots, as if after a contusion or like
petechia, sometimes itching and burning, or with an elevation in the centre like
nettlerasb. - Specks resembling netderash and patches on the shoulders, al'JD8
and banda. - Efflorescence eapeeiaUy on the border of the hairy part of the head,
on the upper part of the trunk, and the extremities. - Red, suppurating pimples.
with a red areola, burning, itching, stinging, pricking, very seDBible to the touch
and passing into brown spots.
Sleepint'8& early in the evening.- Restleee dreamful sleep, with frequent awak·
ing, .and congestion. of blood to the bead, or disturbed by auioue dreams and
itching or burning.- Slumber with pbantaema's. - During ni8'ht awakened by
violent thirst, profuse sweat, or itching burning stitches. - Difficult awaking in
the morning, succeeded by paine in the head and back, exhau8tioJa. aad waD& of
reeolleetion.
Digitized by Coogle
Berberis. 91
Heat in the faee, extending cn-er the whole body, which is cool, without thint.
- Chills, extending from the face and al'IDII!I to the bllt'k and breast, suceeeded by
exeeeBYe heat With anxiety and oppl'ei!Bion on the chel!t, especially in the fo~
noon and evrning.- Chillll, especially before dinner, with ~ld feet, dry via.
eoua mouth, without thirst. - Sbaking chills IIUeeeeded by heat. - Coldnes of .
the body with heat in the fitee, commencing at 11 o'clock ia the forenoon, at night
heat and inclination to sweat.- In the morning chiUioet!fJ with eold feet, preasing
headache, 811 ifa catarrh would ari.l!e, beat in the head; in the afternoon general
warmth and inclination to penpire. - Chills in the baek, extending to the hips,
811 ifproduced by an ice-cold wet handkerchief laid upon it, after 20 minu~ auc-
eeeded by warmth; after a eeeond attack swelling of the tendo Achilli8.- Heat in
tbe hands and the head, in the afternoon. - Inclination to penpire with the least
e.xerciee, attended with anxiety, in the afternoon.- Thirst with dryneas in the
mouth. - Slow weak puJae.
Fretful humour with wearineu of life. - Indifference and pensivenetii!J with
disinclination to speak, uninterested by outward affilirs. - Anxious and tearful;
terrific appearances in the twilight.- Mental labour, requiring cloee thinking, very·
difficult; the le88t interruption breaks the chain of thought.- Defective recollec-
tion and weak memory.
Vertigo, with danger of fiilling, when walking, stooping, struggling with the
arms when rieing; with dizzineas, faintneas, preasure in the forehead, aueceeded
by chills. - Intoxication, dizzineas, vacuity, confusion, heavineas in the head,
especially in the front, with preasure in _the sinciput, attended with alternating
chillineas and heat from morning till afternoon, succeeded by a nasal flux and
sneezing, 88 if catarrh would arise, but whiCh does not appear.
Heavineas in the head, when stooping, 88 ifthe brain would faD forward, with
a sensation of bubbling on, 88 ifall would prolapse from the forehead. - FuUness
th the head with sensation as if the head were enlarged. - Prelllling straining,
bursting headache, especially in the sinciput, chiefly in the morning, increased by
stooping, relieved in the open air; with weariness and exhaustion.- Rending in
ditrerent parts, particularly in the temples and the occqmt, arising from the neek
or extending to it; from the edge of the orbit towards the noee or upwards to the
forehead or into the orbits.- The pains attended with stitches.- Sudden stitches
from the eyes to the forehead. - Mooting, wringing rending stitches above the
forehead and temples.- Heat in the head, in the afternoon.-Perspiration on the
head, when exerting. - Heat in the temples and cold cheeks.
In the skin of the head and faee a tension 88 ifit were bloated, or covered with
a eap, or benumbed, with difficulty to move it.- Itc~g with burning and stitches
on the scalp and face, more on the occiput, especially in the evening, 8lld ehan-
ging ita place after scratching.
Heat and rednees in the fiwe.- Burning and itching on the cheeks. - Sensa-
tion ofchillineas, IIUoceeded by deep-red spots on the cheek, attended with heat ex-
tending over the faee in the afternoon. - Senlllltion ·ofcoldness.- Cold ehivering
aweata. - The t8ee pale, 811 if dirty, and sunken. - Tbe eheeka arid eyea sur-
rounded by livid circles.
Painfulneee of the eyes. - Tearing especially in the lids. - Sudden .shooting,
Digitized by Coogle
92 Berberis.
arising from the forehead and temples, or extending to them.- Irritation'in the
eyes, as if from sand, heat and burning, with a cloudy appearance. - Drynet!H,
biting and itching, especially in the lids, with redoes~~, particularly of the rima af
the lids, which are swollen, viscous, and secreting a white mucilago.- more at the
left side, commencing in the morning and increasing in the afternoon and evening,
exacerbated in the open air and when moving the eyes, relieved at rest.- Dim
sight, all objects looking dark, as if through a veil, running together, with itching
around the eyes and in the face, preceded by incipient catarrh, sueeeeded by itch-
ing on the legs. - Inflammation of the lachrymal caruncle&. - Dryness in the
internal canthus. ·
Alternating heat and coldness on the external ear. - Tumour behind the·ear
of the size of a hazelnut. - Pimples before the ear. - Tearing, alternately in the
ear and other parts of the body.- Outward piercing in the ear, as ifwith a sharp
pointed instrument. - Drawing, pressure, urging with stitches. - Repeated
stitches. - Throbbing and roaring in the ears.
From the left nostril a few drops ofclear bloQII. - Tingling as if before sneez-
ing. - Pricking in the point of the nose.
In the facial bones, and in the upper and lower jaw squeezing rending and
stinging pain as iffrom a blow, extending to the temples.
Tearing in the left upper molares. - Piercing pain in the hollo:w teeth of the
lower jaw.- The teeth as if too long, sensible to the touch, and to the air.-
Sensation as if the teeth were being extracted. - Scraping gnawing pain in the
teeth, - Suppurating ulcers above the incisors and molares. - Small painless
pimples. - Dingy red edge of the gums. :..._ Bleeding gums.
· On the internal surface of the chee~ and lips red painful deeply suppurating
pimples and watery pustules of the size ofa pea. -Ugly blueish-red spots.- Th~>
under-lip on the internal surfuce blUeish-red.
The lips dry, vil!cid, peeling off, with thin scabs.- Burning, itching, crawling
and quivering in the lips. tf
The mouth and fauces dry and viscid, especially in the morning, with a white
tengue and frothy saliva ; relieved after eating. - Bitter, sometimes s<iur taste,
in the morning or after eating. - Taste of blood.- Scratching burning as iffrom
sand. - Scratching in the throat, which compels to hawking, especially in the
morning. - Pain in the left tonsil, as if there a husk were sticking, particularly
when speaking and swallowing; the interior of the throat red, the exterior very
l!ensible to touch aJJ.d motion. - The tongue smarts when touched, with stitches,
large pimples and vesicles.
Increased appetite.- Pressure in the stomach, with stinging and burning, as
if it would burst. - Nausea in the morning. - Eructation and gaping, abating
the complaints and pains.- Rumbling.in the bowels.- Whirling in the stemach
and abdomen. - Visceral. motions, like efforts to stooL
Compression and contraction in thll sides of the abdomen, partinularly in the
left one.- Burning pain in or under the skin of the abdomen....... Wanderin(,
tearing, stinging pain in the abdominal muscles. ·
Stinging and pressure in the right hypochondrium. - Stingjng pain in the-re-
gion ofthe gall bladder, increased by pressing upon. - Tearm,, clrawing,ltinpng
and jerking in the )eft hypochondrium.
Digitized by Coogle
Berberis. 93
Shooting pains in the epigaatrium, particularly in the left side, increased by
insp~tion, motion or touching, attended with short br8llth and distention of the
belly.- Periodical pre88ure from inside outwards, in the left side, near the navel
....,.... Pain on a small spot in the left side. - Stinging burning, gnawing pain on a
81DaU spot before the kidneys, increaeed by pl"e88ing hardly upon, and moving
frequently downwards or forwards.
.Efforts to stooL - In the anus, pl'e881lre, and tendernel8 after evacuatioa, ful.
ness, rasping and stinging, burning; itching, crawling and throbbing. - Sorenell8
around the anus, with burning and tenderlle88 in sitting. - Large luemorrhoidal
tumours with itching and burnin~.
Easy, soft, copious evacuation, like diarrhma.- Small, iftdurated, intermitting
stool, ofa small size, like sheep's-dung. '
In the inguinal region a prell8ing, equeezing tension, stinging and cutting,
extending toward<s the thighs, or prooeding from. the hips to the inguina and thigh&
-Turgid veins.
In the region of the bladder, when it ill full or empty, a squeezing, pressing
and contraction, when prell8ed upon, attended with burning in the uretbra.-
A cutting pain from the left kidney into the bladder and urethra. - Stitches, pro-
ceding from the kidneys to the bladder, urethra and the penis.- Vehement urging
after urinating, particularly in the morning.
Cutting or burning in the urethra, when not urinating more vehement, and
frequently more on one side.- Straining; during and after ejection ofsemen.-
Stinging, craw~g, itching and throbbing in the genitals.- AU the pains increased
by motion. --. Augmented urinal dil!ebarge, clear, with a small slimy sediment,
at the commencement and exacerbation of the comPlaints. - Pale yellow uriDe;
with a small gelatinous, slimy sediment, or muddy, like clay-water. - Green-
ish turbid urine. - Lessened dil!eharge, with a copious slimy sediment, when the
complaints abate. - Copious slimy sediment with a white, gray, reddish furfu.ra-
ceous sediment, and yeUowiJ:Ih-red crystals. - Dark· or bright-yellow, or red urine
with sediment. - The urine warmer, and attended with pain in the lumbar and
renal region. '
Stinging in the penis and the glans. - Rasping burning, particularly on thfl
left side, also on the glans and the preputium. - Sensation ofcoldnell8 in the pre:.
putium and the glans.
In the spermatic chord straining, burning, with stitching, drawing and pres-
sure extending to the testicles. - Pulpous swelling of the seminal chord, with
pains extending to the testicles and particularly the epididymis. - In the testicles
a cutting stinging, straining, burning, crawling and prealling. - Drawing some-
times upwards. - Constringing pain in the testicles, with contraction and retrac-
tion of the ecrotwn.- The ecrotum shrinking together with coldness, and pres-
ling pain in the testicles. - Sorenet!8 elpe'lially on the left side. - Sell88tion of
coldnell8. - Itching. - The pains in the external genitals increased by motion.
Wea.knet!8 and insenfibility ofthe m88Culine Pans.-Depfell8ed sexual passion.
- Ejection too early and too short, in women too late and painfuL- After coition
weakness ofthe parts.
Burning, soreDellll and rasping in the vagina, particularly in its forepart, some-
times only on one side. - Stitches from ioaide outwards, with tenderness of&he
Digitized by Coogle
94 Berbet•is.
vagina. ·Mooting stinging from the perimeum def'p into the female privy
parts.
The mellSe$ at the proper tim.e, but too small in quantity, too short; resf'mbling
somewhat the washings offtesh. - Menstruation scanty, abating the third day,
or but in black drops, or filthy slime. - The menstruation attendt'd in the first
days with pressure towards the parts, stitches, rasping in the vagina, burning
and soreness in the anus. - Pressure from the thighs to the ca)v('!O and turgid
varices.- During the menses pain in the back, pressure and ten!ion in the upper-
arm and shoulders, extending to the neck, vehement tearing through the whole
body, particularly the left side, pain in the kidneys, stitches in the breBI!t, vehe-
ment pressing headache; painful distended abdomen; exhaustion, faintne!S, shiv-
ering, very jaded countenance, irksomeness and weariness of life.- The menses
succeeded by excessive lassitude, and vehement ehooting headache.
Dry nose (succeeded by a chronie c:atarrh with a nidorous discharge).- The
nose and eyes moist, with sneezing, as ifcatarrh were commencing. - Indication
ofcatarrh, succeeded by violent ophthahnic complaints.- Flowing catarrh.
Sensation of rawness in the breast. - During Bowing catarrh, oppression on
the chest, particularly at night.- Hiccupping. - Gaping, and eructation.
Tearing in the breast, particularly in the left side, towards the shoulders and
the back.- Drawing tearing occasioned by :rtretching the arm.- Stitches in the
foreside and middle of the breast, particularly when deeply inspiring, attended
with a dry hacking cough. - Stitches in the left side. - Cutting contraction in
the forepart ofthe breast towards the abdomen, which compels to bending together.
- Stitches in the clavicula. - Pressure behind the left nipple. - Stitches in the
pectoral gland and its vicinity.- Squeezing stinging about the heart.
Tension in the neck. - Tearing in the throat upward, particularly in the leA
side, with stiffness. 1
Tearing between the shoulders; also between the shoulders and spina with
oppression on the chest; in the point of the sho!Jlder-blade, from the shoulders to
the loins. -Drawing in .the shoulders, stitches between the shoulders, particularly
when breathing, below the left shoulder; from the back through the breast, inter-
rupting respiration.- Vehement intense pains on the point and the outside of the
shoulder-blade, towards the shoulder-joint and extending to the elbow, with a sen- .
sation as if beaten. - When raising the arm, obstruction of breath.
In the lumbar and renal region a pre88ing straining, shooting or bruising pain,
extending to the thighs, with stiffness benumbne88 and sensation ofwarmth, ":_hich
pre.vents raising the body and rising up.- Stitching or tearing in the renal regioo
and adjoining parts, with benumbness and soreness, increased by hard external
pre88ure. - Stitches affecting respiration.- Pains in the' kidneys, increaaed by
stooping, rising and sitting; and worse in lying than in standing.
In the back as ifbeaten, disabled and stiff. - Pressure, as ifthe bones would
be pressed asunder, with heaviness, benumbneea, vibration, and warmth, diBap-
pearing after expulsion of wind. - Pain in the back frequenUy in the morning,
more when sitting or lying, than when walking. - Squeezing in the back with
efforts to stool- Tearing, pre!Sing; burning and tension.
Digitized by Coogle
Berberis. 95
In the shoulde~joint pains u if from straining, in motion, increued by pres-
sing upon.- SeiUI8tion of heavines~~ in the axilla: - Stretching, tearing, stinging,
throbbing pain& '
In the upper·ann drawing, stif!ging, tearing on an isolated spot.- Sudden
stitches, jerking tearing into the bones. - Pressure and heaviness in the arm,
which sinks down.- Throbbing in the ann.
In the elbow-joint drawing tension, tearing, stinging, or burning.- Vehement
pain in the sinew of the musculus biceps, after lifting something, extended up-
wards and downwards, when moving the arm. 7 Inflammatory pimples on the .
points of both elbows.
Pressing pains in the inner side of the fore-ann.- Tearing along tbe radius.-
Tearing from the elbow-joint into the ulna and the hand, with heaviness and in-
firmity. - Stitches along the ulna. - Benumbness and disability on the external
side of the arm, increased when the arm hangs down.- Lymphatic swelling of
the flexores of the left fore-arm, 'with spots like petechia.
Pressure in the wrist, as ifafter spraining, or straining. - Tearing, vehement
stitches towards the metacarpus. - Burning pains. - In the back of the hand a
pressing mooting with vibration and sensation of heaviness.- Tearing along the
metacarpal bones attended with burning. - Te.aring on the back·of the fingers,
chiefly in the joints, frequently with stiffuess, heaviness and swelling ofthe joints;
increased by moving and touching.- Stitchesextending to the points ofthe fingers.
- Tearing in the points of the fingers. - Pain under,the nails, with tenderness
to the touch.-Vibrating pain.- Burning pains, increased by friction.- Burning
stitches in the fingers. - Redness of the. points and the back of the fingers, with
itching, as after chilblains. - Small warts on the ball of the band, and on the
middle finger.
In the lower extremities, pain as if beaten with heaviness; he can scarcely~ rise
from the seat.- Sensation as if sprained in the muscles and the bones.-Wasting
of the lower extremities. ·
Drawing stretching pain in the thigh, as ifit were too short.-Tearing, shoot-
ing pains.- Stitches from outside inward.- Throbbing in the thigh.- Sensation
ofice-coldness on small spots.
Sensation in the knees as if palsied'· weary and beaten,. after ;walking, and
when arising from the seat. - Swollen veins in the bend of the knee. - Tension
in t~e bend of the knee, as if it were too short, drawing, burning, stinghJg, tear~
ing, pressing, increased by stretching the leg.- Spasm in the knee, extending to
the calfand the thigh, when ~y leaning upon.- Spasm with vibration and
heaviness.-Stinging in the joint of the knee, particularly on the inner side, when
walking.
Tearing stinging, spasm and teruiion in the calf bf the leg, during and after
motion, attended with vibration, heaviness., stiffness and benumbnei!S. - In the
shinbone straining pressure with vibration. - Tearing and stinging in the shin
and the tendo Achillis. - Lymphatie swelling of the tendo Achillis of the left
leg with an ugly red spot. - Pain when raising the foot, preventing flexion.-
Itching and swelling, preceded by chill and heat.
In the foot-joint tearing upwards and downwards. - Rending and pricking
~u the fore-part of the foot-joint.- Stitches from inside outwards, when travellin(l.'
Digitized by Coogle
96 Berberis.- Bismuthi subnitras.
in a carriage.- Tearing in the ankles, partieuJarly of the left aide.- Sudden
stitchee, causing hobbling.- Sensation ofeoldn- on the foo&.joint.-Pre.uN in
the inner ankle ftlld tearing towards the heeL - Tearing attended with lltitcbse
and burning. - Vehement stinging, when stepping on, terminating in benumb-
ness.- Twitching 88 iffrom any thi~ alive.- Stitchea exteDd.ing to the big toe.
-Pains with swelling of the sinews.- In the external ankles tearing and mooting,
extending to the little toe and preventing motion. - Rending upwards and draw-
ing forwards. - Piercing, burning or pricking pain. - -~bove the external ankle
a vehement pain in the bones and sinews, when touched.- In the heels tearing
and stinging, deep into the bone, when walking and stepping on.'- Pain, like a
festering under the skin; after long standing. - Pain when 1tretching the foot. -
Itching and burning stitches in the foot. - On the back ofthe foot rending in all
directions, terminating in the points of the toes.-Vehement stitches between the
metatarsal bones, 88 iffrom a nail, when 8tanding. - Stitches in the baD of the
big toe.- Burning, pricking and itching.-Pain in the metatanus, 88 ifsprained
and,swollen. - Rending, crawling and aensation of warmth ·in the sole of the
feet.- Violent stitches from outwards, or from below upwards.- Burning with
soreness, stinging and itching.- The sinews in the sole of the mot as if con-
tracted.'- Tingling in the foot, 88 ifafter freezing.- Tearing in the balls of the
feet, with pain when stepping on;- Single jerks in the toes, particularly in the
joints.-In the tip of the big toe a pain 88 from a blow.-Vehement pain, as if
the toe would suppurate.- Stitches in the points of the toes, ehiefty ontw&rds. -
On every step, stinging in the big toe.- Durnin~, pricking or 10reness in the
toes, with redness 88 after slight freezing; tight shoes are intolerable.- Burning
crawling, itching, vibration and aensation of warmth in the toes.
32. Bismuthi subnitras.
Subitr«le of 6i,.wllt. - o-. Bi•••tlo.
Predominant ejfechl : Pressing or pressing rending pains..
Great drowsiness, in the morning, after rising. - Starting in sleep and awak-
ing with terror.-- Libidinous dreams.- Weariness, when awaking, at night.
Morose discontentedness and complaining. - Inconstancy.- Fearful of being
alone.
Dizziness in the morning. - Vertigo, 88 if the brain moved round in a circle.
Headache, chiefly in the sinciput, and atreeting the_eyes. - Preuing pairiful
laeavinus in the head, particularly in the forehead, over the root of the nOlle and
in the temples. - Continual mooting and lxwing in theforeheail, eztenrJing to the
eyes and down to the point ofthe nose.- Burning contraction in the head, particu-
larly in the fqrehead and eyes. ,
Pressure on the eyeballs.- The angles of the eyes gummy.
The countenance with an earth-colored sickly appearance, with livid circles
around the eyes.- Pressing pain on the zygomatic bone.
Toothache, d11iwing pressing.- Swollen painful gums.
Inner part of the mouth exceedingly paWM, 88 ifsore.-Tasce of blood in the
Digitized by Coogle
Bismuthum.- Bovista.
mouth, in the morning, with hawking up ofbloody slime.-White furred tongue,
in the evening.- Great desire for cold drink, in the evening.
Na118e8, particuJarly after meals.
Prunng kind of cramp in the •tomtJCh, after meals.
Rumbling and rattliug iD the bowels. - Prening pinching in t~. boweu,
with urging to stool
Ineffectual urging to stool, in the evening.
Frequent, copious discharge ofaqueous urine.
Preuing.paim in the tuticlu. - Semiual emissions, at night, without dreams.
Cough, day and night, with considerable expectoration.
Pressingandjammingobliquelythrough the breast in the regionofthediaphragm.
-Hot, burning contraction of the chest, with an impediment of breathiDg and
speaking. - Burning and boring in the breast and back. - Palpitation of the
Taetwt.
A disabling, tearing, pre1nng pain in the fore-arm~ and the bones ofthe wrilt.
-Tremor in the hands, after meals.- Tearing under the finger-nails.
Prunng tearing in the bones .of the feet. - Itching frettiug on lhe shin and
back of the foot, ioereased considerably by scratching.
33. Bovista.
'£g•01•r.S... B•"""·- 2'Tte l'"ff- 6Gll. - Germ. Bmtt.
Duration ofeffect: about 50 days.
Antidote: camphors.
General languor and enenation, particularly in the joints.- Agitation of the .
blood.
Softn8811 -of the skin; an obtuse instrument producing a deep pit on the skin.
-Itching on becoming warm, wbi'ch continues after scratching. ....:... Rash and
pimples with buraing itching.-Thick scurfy, ·oozing eruptions. - Herpe1 humi-
du..- Panaritia.- Warts.- Corns, with shooting pain.
Great drownne11 in· the afternoon, and early in the t!Jening. - Restless sleep
at night, with many (anxious and frightful) dreams.
Chill With thir•t, even near the warm stove and in bed, at night.- Heat, with
. thirst, anxiety, restlessnel!@, and oppression of the chest.-Morning-sweats, espe-
eially on the chest. - Evening fever with chills and shuddering in the back, with
drawing pains in the bowels.
Melancholic dejection, when alone. - Dolefulness, with restlessness and dis-
tress. - Inclination to take every thing amiss. - Too great frankness and
loquacity. .
Weak memory.- Mental ab1tractitm. - Awkward behaviour, so that one leta
e•ery thing fall. - ~flsapplication of words in writing and speaking.
Easily intoxicated with only a little wine.- Stupefyiug giddiness, with vanish-
ing of the eeusee.
•
Digitized by Coogle
98 Bovista.
HeaJacle, Jeep ia t1ae 6rllin, wUh a 88DI8&ion, M y tl.e heM 111tre eral«getl.-
Headache when awakiug, u if from ~ much Bleep. - &apelying painl in the
head, with heat in the eyes. - Nocturnal pains ill tile-head, which are intolerable
on raising it up. - Preuing in tlae AetUl, with throbb.iog, 88 from an uloer.-
Compreasing pains in the head. - Rendiug in the head with, hea"fioe. and
IOreDet!B.
' Great tendemeas in the aealp, when touched.- Sore 1p0ta on tht! IICBIP.-
The hair falling otr.
Pains in the eye, 88 fioom a whirling around; with an ezcuriwe preuure in tlae
cavity ofthe eye and its bones. - The eyes cemented together at night. - Weak.
luatrele88, cloudy eyes.- Objects appearing to the eye 88 too near.
mcer in the ear, with pain on swallowing. -Thick scurfy, oozing eruption
on the ears. - O.ffemive pundent ducharge ofthe ean. - Diminished hearing. -
Indistinct hearing and wrong apprehension.
Soreness in the inner part of the nose.-The nostrils scurfy with burning pain.
Heat in tke ckeela 88 if they would burst. - Remarkable alternation of the
colour of tke face, tometimu red, otkertimer pale. - Great paleness of the fi1ee,
on rising in the morning.--:Boring and mooting in the zygomatic bonee.-.R.wed
pale ltDeUing on the upper-lip, nose and cheeks. - Craeked lips. - Angler ofthe
mouth ulcerated.- Tearing in the lower jaw and before the ear, with swelling of
the submaxillary glands attended with throbbing pain.
Toothache in the upper incisors, succeeded by swelling of the upper-lip.-
Drawing painr in the teeth, particularly in those, which are hollow, evening and
night, abated in the open air and in warmth. - Mooting and boring in the teeth.
-Bleeding ofthe gu'lnl, wheit sucking and at night.
In the mouth much saliva secreted. - Numbne81! of the inner part of the
mouth. - Stammering. -Cutting pain in the tongue.- mcer on the edge ofthe
tongue with a sore pain. - Putrid _
smell in the mouth.
Sore throat, with scratching and burning in the Ql8ophag1U.
Putrid taste in the mouth. - Taste ofblood in the mouth.- Longing for cold .
drink, particularly in the afternoon and evening.-'Coutinualstrong hunger, even
as soon as a meal is over.- After a meal, midday and evening, great dro108inur.
- Hiccupping, before and after dinner.
Nausea with shivering, from morning to midday.
Pain in the stomach with a sensation ofcoldness, as if a lump ofice lay there.
- Pressure in the pit of the stomach and fulness, with tightnese in the temples
and mental anguish.
.Pain in the bowels after meals, in the region of the navel, as if the t>owels
were gashed with a knife.- Strong griping in the bowels, aggravated when at
rest. -Painful tenderness in the outward and inward part of the abdomen: -
Violent colic pains, with trembling and chattering of the teeth, from coldness, par-
ticularly after a stool. - Piercing and ulcerous pain in the abdomen. - Frequent
escape ofstinking wind.
Constipation. - Hard firm stool. - Diarrhaa with cutting in the bowels,
rending and pain as iffrom an ulcer in the abdomen.
Frequent urinal efforts.-When urinating, a pain as ifsore in t~e urethrs.
Sexual pBSI!ion increased. - Frequent seminal emusions.- After coition, reel-
· D,9,;ized by Coogle
Bovista.-Bromum. - Brucea. 99
ing and eonfwlion·in the head.- A hard, painful, suppurating node in the ure-
thra.- Burning in the genital&
Memt~uation too urly and profuse. - Menlltrual discharge only at night. -
Discharge of blood during the intervau. - Sharp corroding leucorr~a. - Sore
inguina when menstruating.
Obstruction of the nose, impeding breath.- Running catarrh ofwatery slime,
with dizziness.
Hoar1enu1, in the morning, with cabu'rhalspeech.- Scratching and soreness
in the larynx, with much viscid slime.
Dry cough, from tickling in the throat and on the chest.
Slwrt breath during manual labour.- Constringing oppression of the chest,
whereby every thing seems tight.
Stitches in the breast.- Palpitation of the heart, with trembling restlessnei!IJ,·
giddineM, nausea and headache.
Sweating in the arm-pit•, with a smeU of onionl.- Swollen jugular yltmdl,
with drawing tightening pains. - Paim in the back of10me year• •tanding, with
8titlbess, after 8tooping.
Jointl ofthe arm~ and handl tJI ifdilabled and wre~ched. - Tightness in the
shoulder-joints, as if too short.- A disabling sensation in the artery of the fore-
arm. - Spasmodic drawing in the wrists. - Pricking pain in the wrist when
grasping. -Infirmity of the handl, that the lightest things are allowed to fall. -
Herpes humidus on the back of the hand.
The legs sleepy and prurient, with incapacity to 8tand on them.- Pricking in
the joint of the knee and foot.- Temion in the leg• and cal11es tJI iftoo 1/wrt. -
Cramp in the calvee, in the morning in bed.- Rash on the legs.
3.4. Bromum.
The Symptoms of this remedy will be found in the "Corrupondenzblatt der
lwmcJQPIJlhilchen Aerzte".
·35. Brucea.
Pmlomifumt ~ecu: Lutlitude.- In the exten.eors ofall the limbe a aenation
u U'beaten.- Inclination to stretch out the extremities, with gaping.- Exce8ve
weariness, producing reeling when walkiDg.- Occasional tearing in the limbs,
and stitches in the head, the ears and the breast.- Pinching on different places.
-Many complaints which 81'011!18 in the middle of the day di88ppear in the evening.
Itching red rub on the back of the band and on the body.
Excet!llive drottJrinul, beginning in the morning and increuing during the
whole day.- He sleeps 11 bounl; yet after a proi»UDd long eleep in the morning
he is not !atisfied.
Digitized by Coogle
100 Brucea.- Bryonia.
Chillinus and GVerlion to the open oir. - ShudderiDg and thirst, perlpiratioa
when walking, when at rest·shuddering.
----
Heaviness in the head, particularly in the sinciput, with drowsine6s.- Pain
within the eye-brows, as if they were swollen.- Lancinating pain in the head.
worse when walking in sunlight, or afterwards.- Slight fulnees of the head a~d
lancinating pain in the right temple.
Itching in the canthi.- Sensation as if there were sand in the eyes, which is
an inducement to rub them.- Redness near both canthi. ·
Shooting pain in the depth ofall,the teeth and gums, worse aftercoTd water.
Phlegm in the mouth towards the throat. - Dryness of fauces and r~light
burning or smarting of the pharynx, as if from swallowing rancid fat.
Insipid pappy _
taste. ..- Anorexia. - Eructation of wind and sensation in the
stomach as after long fasting. -Burning in the pit of the stomach.- 'l'hrobbing
sensation in the whole body; sensible to the touch in the region of the stomach.
After meals headache increased, pressure in the stomach, evolution in the
abdomen, efforts to stool and palpitation of the heart.- Pain on the breast as if
beaten.
Nausea in the evening and griping pains in the abdomen; 10 o'clock vomiting
of what has been eaten; 2 o'clock in the morning, after abdominal pains, diarrhrea.
recurring every two hours until day-light.- Grasping in the abdomen, and fre-
quent slimy stools, as if there were worms, with some blood. - With the first
diarrhmic stool aU pains in the abdomen disappeared. - Intermitting stooL -
Wearisome tendency to diarrhooa. - Stitches shooting downward in the rectum.
followed by a consistent stool and feeling ofgreater lightness of the body. ·
Stinging, cutting and burning in the urethra.
Pulsation in the nose, succeeded by a vehem~nt almost insupportable sneezing.
and flowing catarrh; water ~nning from the eyes and nose, and the sleep mp-
pressedfor 36 hours; coolness in the head, dry mouth without thirst, and phlepn
in the throat.
Oppression of the chest and chilliness, chiefly on the right side.- When awak- .
ing in the morning, the right side aching as if beaten.- Internal pain, as if sore..
at night in bed, worse when lying on the side, not affected by breathing. -
Stitches below the right mamma, when breathing deeply.
Pain as if from weariness in the loins and the upper part ·ofthe os sacrum.
Crampy pain in the back of the left hand, when the bones are pressed, after-
ward the same pain on the left shin, and the next day in the right shoulder-blade.
-Between the thumb and the fore-finger small itching vesicles.
In the lower extremities pain as if beaten. - The joint of the left foot bent
outwardly, 110 that she ahnost walks on the ankle.- Burning in the corns.
36. Bryonia.
s,.,.,.;a al6•. - Wlite 6rvon11.- o,rm. W nu• Zaur•6•.
Dwaiion of effect: in acute cases a few days, in chroa.ic cases about 30 day..
Antidote: toxicodendron, aconitum1 ·
:· ·:
·:..··
...
........
.: .. ..
......... ..
Digitized by Go.ogle
Bryonia~ 101
Uwl 68 antidote for: alumina, clematis, eenega, tosieGdendren, aeidum mu.
riatieum1
It IJM10ers weU 1Jjter: aoonitum, opium, toxieodendron.
After it sueee88fuDy may be given: alumina (in chronic complaints); tollico-
dendron (in typhns).
Predominant effects: RAeumatie and arthritic tightness, drawing, tearing tml
;tinging, m011tly in the limbs, particularly, when moiling the parts, with intoler-
ance of touch, sweat on the parts affected when at rest, and with tremor in the
parts when the pains are abated.-Stiffness and stinging in the joints by touching
and moving.- Disabling soreness of the limbs, in the evening:- Lameness and
numbness in'separate limbs, as ifstiffand torpid.-Unaccountable.wrenclu'ngs.-
Injuries from lifting.- Pale, tight, hot tf,'mor._; Arthritic, red, skiniJtK SUJellings
in single parts, with skO()ting therein, when moving. - Pain as if beaten, or as if
festering under the skin, or 68 ifthe.fte•h were l001enedfrom tke bones.-Pressing
drawing in the periosteum. - Swelling and induration of the glands. - Scrophu-
lous complaints. -Inflammations, also nervous. - Dropsy of internal organs.-
Influenza.- Consequences of suppressed measles or scarlet-fever.- Bilions and
gutric complaints. - Re&Ults ofvexation, and other cal!leS with chiUinel8 tmd cold-
ne88 ofthe body.- Jaundice.- Twitching ofsingle muscles and limbs.- Convul-
sions. - T~tanus. - Hysteric spasms and complaints. - Pains and maladies ex-
acerbated by motion, relieved by rest. '
General uneasiness, oppression and shivering, from pressure of the clothes.-
Drawing through the whole body. - Tremor of the limbs when rising up. -
Infirmity in all the limbs, when walking after sitting.-Great lassitude and weak-
ness, especially in the 'morning and when walking in the open air.- Inclination
to' lie down. - Fainting tits. - When walking in the open air, the &eiUIIltion of
weakness is particularly excessive.
Yellow colored skin. - Clammy moist skin. - Pricking burping all over the
body, as from nettles, after a small affection. - Erysipelatous inflammations, par-
ticularly on the joints.- Nettle-rash.- Muiary enqJtion, especially with children
and lying in women.- Eruptions, biting or burning itching. - Furfuraceous,
burning itching tetters. - Petechia. - Ulcers with a sensation ofcoldness or whh
biting or pulsating pains.-Chilblains.- Corns with pressing or burning shooting
or with soreness on touching.
Great inclination to gape.- Great drowsine11 in the daytime, particularly after
dinner.- Coma vigil, interrupted by anxious delirium.....,. Sleeplessne81, particu-
larly before midnight, arising from heat, agitation of the blood 1md anguish, espe-
cially on the chellt. - Steep mterrupted by thirst, with bitter taste on ~twnking. -
Inability to lie on the right side. - Starting up and frightened ~hen futnng asleep
and !n sleep. - Restless slumber with confused dreams and much thinking. -
When closing the eyes, immediately l!lhrieking and delirium.- Uneasy irritating
tire_,,- Vivid dreanui from the bul!liness of the day. - Nocturnal delirium and
fimtasiel!l with open eyee. - Whimpering in sleep, eepecially after midnight. -
Somnambulism. -Incubus.
Chillinets tnafl cold1tU8 ofthe body, someti~MB ia the eYening in fwd, or with
pe1na in, all the .funbe 1111d cold sWeat on the forehead.- Shaking chills, often with
Digitized by Coogle
102 Bryonia.
he« in the head, rednu~ oftlae fa« tmd tlair1t., or with heat. sweat.and thinJt after
it. -Before tla6 •laiver1, first giddineu and laeadaclae, then shuddering with elretch-
ing and drawing in the limbe.- During the shivers, loathing offood and drink.-
Heat, first with intermitting shivering. then burning heat with thirst; then etrong
perspiration.- General dry, externaland internal heat, moetly with a 1trong duire
for cold drink. - During heat, giddiness a.nd headache.- Intermittent fever, al8o
tertian, ·especially with predominant coldne11. - Fever with eicknees and lying
down, or with stitching pain in the side and abdomen. - Thirsl during chills ~
heat.-With the approach offever dry vomiting cough, with l!ltitches and tightness
ofthe breaet.- Inflammatory, gastric, bilioul, puerpen.Z, milk-, nervotu and typlau.
fever. - Cold sweat on the forehead and the ecalp. - Strong perspiration when
walking in the ·cold air. - Greaey sweat, like oil, day and night. - Oritical~tt~eat,
with anxious reatl~seness, sobbing breath, short cough, and pressure on the cheat.
-Excessive night- and morning-1UJeat1, also with a sour smell.
Mental anguish and restle1snus, with apprehenrionfromfuturity.- Muci tDeep-
ing. - Doubtful of recovery, with fear of dying. - Fear and an inclination to
escape. - Dejection. - Reluctance to speak. - Fretful irritability and angry
violence.
Want of memory.- Vanishing ofthoughts.-Inability to recollect.- Desiring
things, which are not at hand, or which, when given, are disliked.- Delirium and
wandering talk about business.
The head muddled, cloudy and dizzy. - Giddiness and intoxiCation, as D-om
congestion of the blood to the head.-Stupor of the head.-(,tiddiness as ifwaver-
ing.- Giddiness only when stooping.- Vertigo,- especially when rising up from
sitting or lying down.
Headache, as from nocturnal debauch.- Headache after every meal.-
Arthritic paroxysms in the head with vomiting, nausea and lyingdown. - Hyster-
ical headache.- Morning headache, on first opening and moving the eyes.-Great
fttlneBB and heavineu of the het~d, with mooting pre1Bing loteards the forehead,
and with the sensation,·as if, when stooping, every thing would fall forwards.-
Preslling a~Under or together in tlae brain. - ·Shooting in the head, also to one
side ouly outwardly. - Jerking throbbiag headache, aggravated by motion, with
dizziness of the eyes. - Congestion of the blOOd to the head, with heat in it. -
Burning pains in the forehead. - Injlamr:wtion8 of the brain, especially aervotU.
-Pains oftke head increased, particttlarJy through exercile and walking (quickly),
or when opening the eyes.
External tenderness of the head, as if sore. - Biting and twitching on the
head, from the zygomatic bone to the temple, aggravated by touching. - ~uming
heat outwardly on the head. - Cold sweat on the forehead. - Great greaSiness
of the hair on the head.
Pains in the eyes when moved.- Pre1Bing in the eyes, in the evening, or as
iffrom sand in them. - Burning of the eye•.- Injlammatioil ofthe eye• and lids,
with redness, especially with newborn infants. - Arthritic ophthalmia.- Painfal
swelling of the eyes, with suppuration; the conjunctiva dark-red swollen. - Red
1t0eUing ofthe egelidl, with pre88ing pain.- Fvrfvracf!O'U6lnwning itching herpea
on the eyelid. - Hordeolum. - Suppurating small tumor on the internal canthua.
:· ·:
.... ..
..·...·._
... ... . ..
·: ~.: =
..=.
DigitizedbyGoogle .
Bryonia. 103
-Nightly suppuration of the eyes, and running during the day.- Weak, cloudy,
glazed or glaring, swimming eyes.- Presbyopia. - Flowing together of letters
when reading.- Becoming dark or appearance of fire before the eyes. - Photo-
p~. .
Otalgia, contracting pains with difficult hearing. - Stitches in the ears, when
and after Wlllking in the open air. - Otitis.- Swelling like a boil before and be-
hind the ear.- The ~ bleeding. - A sensation in the ears, as if they were stop-
ped. - Buzzing in the ears. - Intolerance of11Qi8e.
SweUin.g ofthe nose with great painfulness when touched, and tedious checked
catarrh of the nose. - Inflammation of the interior ofthe nose. - An absce88 in
the nostril, with biting pains. - Frequent qn;ta.xis, sometimes in the morning,
or when menstruation is suppreBBed•
. • YeUow and earth-colored countenance.- Red, ardent countenance.- Red spots
in the face. - The face bloated, white, hot, blueieh- or brownish-red.- Inflam-
matory pains in the face, mostly preBBing and relieved by outward preBBure. -
Swelling ofthe face on one side, or below the eyes and about the root of the nose.
-Swelling of the.cheeks near to the ears.
Lips BWoUen and cracked, with bleeding and burning when touched. - Dry
lips.- Eruption on the lips, with a biting sensation as ifcracked. - Trismus.
Pains in the teeth, compelling to lie'tknon, ~r increased by warmth, or at night,
when lying on the sound side, relieved by lying on the side affected. - Drawing
jerking toothache, with a sensation, as if the teeth were loose and too long, partic-
ularly while and after eating. - Pain in the gums, as if sore and raw, with loose
teeth. - Spongy g1,1ms.
DryneBB of the mouth, with great thirst.- Collection of much soapy frothy
saliva.- Salivation.- Putrid smell of the mouth.--' Dry, or white, or filthy, or ·
yellow furred tongue. - Rough, dark tongue. - Burning vesicles on the edge of
the tongue. - Indistinct speech from dryness in the throat.
Sore throat with difficult swallowing and hoarseneBB. - Pains in the throat,
as if raw, when swallowing saliva. - Sensation of dryne88 and great dryn~BB in
the throat.- Pressure in the throat as from a hard angular substance.- Shooting
in the throat, when touching, as also.when turning the head and while swallowing.
- Viscid phlegm in the throat, which is loosened by hawking.
. Ageusia. - Insipid or putrid taste in the mouth.- LoSB of the taste of food.-
Sweetish taste in the mouth. - Bitter taste ofall food, or only after meals, or at
other times and in the morning. - Violent thirst, after meals, which is increased
by dri~Jking beer. - Strong appetite. - Longing for wine, acids and coffee, or of
many things, which may .not be eaten.- Bulimia, often with atlorexia, or with
thirst and flushes ·of heat, sometimes at night. - LoS8 of appetite with the first
bit. - Aversion to and loathing offood. - After every meal, eructation with pre...
.ure in the stomach and the scrobiculus cordis and cutting in the bowels.
Eructation, particularly after meals, and chiefly bitter and sourish, or like the
taste of what has been eaten.- Vacant eructation.-:- Return .ofwhat ha8 beeJ&
eaten, after every meal. - Hiccupping.
Nausea with inclination to vomit, partieularly after food, which ha8 been eaten
with a relish, or also when rising up. - Anxious nausea, when sitting down and
trying to drink. - SickneSB in the morning. - lne.ffectWJl e.ffort8 to vom~ with
Digitized by Coogle
lCM Bryonia.
waterbrasb..- Vomiting instantly after drinking.- In the evening vomiting IJiime,
-Ejection ofwlwt wu eaten, with hiccupping and choking.- Vomiting (lint)
of bitter water or bile, and (then) the fooJ, sometimes at night.- Betta~.
-When vomiting, shooting in the left side of the abdomen.
Pains in the stomach, after lifting something improperly.- Preuure in the
•trnnach ·as from a &&one, after meal&, with peevishness.- Cram~t~ in the .tomach.,
particularly from the diaeaeed state of the spleen. - Stricture of the pylorus. -
Oppression in the pit of the stomach, and painful tension when touched, with a
sensation of warmth.- Shooting: in the •tomach, when lying on the side, also in
the pit ofthe stomach when moving qr •tepping up or making 11 fal8e •tep.- Sore-
ness of the pit ofth~ stomacn when touched and when coughing.- Intolerimce
of the slightest touch on the pit of the stomach. - Burning in the pit of the
stomach. - Burning in the •tomach when moving. - Gastritis. - Sensation of
swelling in the pit of the stomach.
Pain~~ in the liver, chiefly shooting or tightening and burning, particularly
when touching, cooghing and breathing. - Hepatitis. - Drawing pain in the
right hypochondrium, extending to the stomach and back, in the morning and
after dinner, with vomiting.- Diapbragmatitis. - Hard swelling about the by~
chonders and the navel
Abdominal pain11 with pregnarit women. - Tedimu paint1 in the boweh, with
distention of the abdomen and waterbrash. - Distention of the abdomen, espe-
cially after meals.- Pressure in the hypogastrium, particularly after dinner.-
Hysteric abdominal cramps. - Tearing in the abdome~ , from the hiJIII to the
pit of the stomach. - Cutting and shooting in the abdomen, particular:y after
taking warm milk. - Blood stanched in the abdomen. - Hard swelling about the
·.navel. - Enteritill. - Ascites. - Loud rumbling and roUing in Jhe bowels, with
voiding of wind, sometimes in the evening in bed.
Constipation. - Ted~ costiveness. - Difficult evacuation of thickly formed
stools. - Small hard stools as if burnt. - Diarrhaa, stinking like foul cheeee,·or
with indigested evacuation and violent cutting in the bowels, also after takirig
cold: - Diarrhrea in the morning.- Diarthrea at night, with burning in the anus.
-Weakening diarrhrea.- During the stools a constricting belly-ache.
Urine inconsiderable, red, brown and hot. - Sudden calls.to urine, which can-
not be restrained. - Clear watery urine frequently discharged. - Urinating at
night.- Involuntary escape of hot urine while moving.- Residuary urination.-
Burning and cutting before urinating. - A sensation ofconstriction ofthe urethra.
......;. Shooting and burning in the urethra.
On the glana, a red itching eruption.
Suppre•1ed menstruation. - Menses to early. - During menatruation rending
in thelimbs.- &!cape ofblood during the intervals.- Congestion of blood towards
the uterus.- Metrorrhagia, exhibiting much dark-red blood, with pain in the
small of the back and bead. - Profuse lochia. - Burning pain in the region of
the fundua uteri, during pregnancy, increased by motion, relieved by pressure
and rest. - Swelling of one of the labia pudendi, with a black, bard puatule on it.
-Puerperalfever, with full exuberant breasts.
Dryness and stoppage of the nose, sometimes lingering. - Runnin~ catarrh
o,gitized by Google
Bryonia. 105
with lltiuging urging"towards the forehead. - Stopping in the head, som,etime&
lingering. - Nasal slime, bard, dry crusted.
HOIU'IIenetl8 with inclination to sweat, also after measles, or after taking cold,
with cough and rattling on the chest. - Irritation to cough, 88 from slime, suc-
ceeded by pain 88 if sore in the trachea, aggravated by spea.kiDg and smoking
tobacco.
Cough, moetly dry, owing to a tickling in the throat, or • from a vapour in the
trachea, with inclination to br!!ath frequently.- Cough &a ifoccasioned by irrita-
tion from the stomach.- Spasmodic and ruffocating cough, particularly after mid-
night, or after eating and drinking, with vomiting of what htU been eaten.-
Cough in the morning with waterbrash. - Cough, which threatens to bul'8t the
chest. - Cough with 1tilche1 in the Iitle ofthe breast, or with preuing pain in the
head, as ifit would split, and stinging pain in the pit of the stomach, or with pain
in the hypochondres.- Humid cough. - Cough with expectoration of dirty-red-
dish phlegm..- Yellowilh expectoration.- Acute suppuration of the lungs.-
Ezpectorating pure blood or bloodltreaked mueu~ with clotted blood. - When
coughing, pain as if sore in the pit of the stomach. - Before the night-cough ob-
struction of breath.
Respiration dijficult, or 1hort, quick and anxio118, or lighing.- Opprilesion of
the chest with obstruction of breath.- Parozy~m~ oftUthma at night, with shoot-
ing pains in the bowels and urging to stool.
Presrure on the chest, tU fram a weight, with oppression.- Contracting pain
in the chest from cold air. - Tightnetl8 in. the breast by walking. - Shooting in
the chest and it• lides, 88 from an ulcer, particnlarly when coughing or making
deep inspiration, so 88 to render sitting up nece888rY, allowing only oflying on
the back, and aggravated by motion in general. - Heat and burning in the ch@t,
with anxiety and oppression.-Pleurisy and pneumonia nervo•a, particularly with
aged perso118, and after the 118elet18 'application ofaconitum.- Hydrothorax..- A
sensation as if every thing in the chest were loose and would fall down into the
abdomen. - Palpitation of the heart, often very strong, with oppression of the
chest. - Carditis. - Indurated nipples. - Full exuberant breasts of lying in
women. - Milk-fever with rheumatic pains in the breasts.
Pain in the small of the back, like painfol 1tijfneB1, which forbids walkin~ in
an erect posture.-Sorene!!!!.in the small of the back (when at rest). -Spasmodic
contracting pain over the whole back.- Burning and drawing in the back. -
·Slwoting in the back and 1acral region. - Stinging under the left shoulder-blade,
extending to the heart, aggravated considerably by coughing and inspiration.-
Pressure on the shoulder, with lancinating when breathing deep. ..-. Rltevmatic
•tiffnu• and tightnu1 in the neck and on the throat. - Red spots on the sides of
the· neck.- Red eruption, like rash, on the neck, with biting itching.- Sweat
in the arm-pits.
Rending in the i/W11.lder-joint1 and upper-arm~, with tightness and pi.ercing
and shining red swelling of the parts. - Drawing through the bones of the arm
dewn to the pointS ofthe fingers. - Convulsive jerking, spasmodic drawing and
shaking of the arms. - Burning pain and la!!!!itude in the arma. - Constant tre-
mor of the arms and fingers. - Swelling of tke arm about the elbow-joint. -
Stinging in the joints of the elbow and hand, with heavine!!!! of the bands. - Reel
Digitized by Coogle
106 Bryonia.- Caladium.
miliary eruption on the fore-arm. - Wrenching pain in the lllfVt, tDhen mmnng it.
- The back of the hand inflamed at night, with burning pain. - &Dollen haruh.
-Sensation of numbness in the palm of the band.- Stinging pain in the fingers,
when writing.-Hot, pale swellingofthe finger-joint&-Twitching of the fiugers,
when moving the hands.
Arthritis ischiatica. - Drawing pain in the thig/&1. - Stitche1 in the thigh.
from the buttock to the ankles, 'with intolerance oftovch and motion, and with a
general perspiration. - Weakness and infirmity ofthe legs, especially when 88-
cending steps. - Painful tightening 1tijfne1s ofthe kneel. - GIOI!Ily red swelling
of the knees with violent twingM, also when walking. - Tottering and kniekling
ofthe knees, when walking.- Shooting drawing and spaamodic pain in the knee,
with drawing as far as the calves.- Rending in the knees, extending to the shin-
bones. - Tightening shooting and rending in the calves, extending to the ankles,
.with a glOI!Ily red swelling of the parts.- The calves cramped, night and morning.
-Lassitude of the legs in walking and standing. - Wrenching pain in the foot-
joint, when stepping. - Arthritic swelling of the foot, with redness, heat, and
tightening pain.- Hot swelliog on the back of the foot, with soreness, when
stretched out, tension when moved, and ulcerous pain when touching it.- Sh~
ing in the feet, soles and toes, particularly when stepping on;- Corns with pres-
sing, or burning shooting, or with soreness to the tOuch.
37. Caladium.
Cal•<li•• ••1•i10u•. - Gora. Giflif•r Ar...
Duration ofeffect: several weeks.
Antidote: car.bo vegetabilis, hydrargyrum, ignatia, zingiber; capsicum emr-
nally (when the akin is poisoned); in cases ofpoisoning and swelling: the ap o(
sugar-cane.
It an.noer1 weU after: acidum nitricum.
Predominant effects: Fear of exercise; disposed to lie down. - Fainting fits
after writing, close thinking, lying down, and rising.- All complaintl are relieved
from a short 1leep in the daytime and disappear ill perspiration.
Vehement corrolil1f!ly itching burning, lancinating like a fresh wound, attended
with much heat, with urging to t()UCh it, but may not be scratched; 'IIIith bright-nd
apot• without noeUing.- Corrosive burning on 8Dlall spots of the skin, whieh
makes touching nece8118ry.- The 1ting• ofjlie1 ezce11i1Jely smarting.- Hard,
granulous, itching burning eruption ofruh, on the fore-arm or the breast, alter-
nating with an uthmatical affection.
Somnolent wearine11, in the daytime, without 1leep.- During ,a dizzy sleep he
remembers all, what he had forgotten awake.- Sleep easily disturbed.- Groan·
ing and anxious sobbing or vehement starting in sleep.
Internal heat, with inconliderable perlpiration and debility; relieJed after Bleep.
- Fever .
with otalgia and swelling of the submaxillary glands. - Fever with cold·
ness and thirst, gasping, catarrh in the nose and throbbing in the breast. - Small
paise and cold sweat. - Frequent quivering pul3e. - Evening-fev':'", with thirst,
Caladium. 101
beat or chill, during vthich he j'alh aileep, and when it Ceases, he awakes.-
Heat with cold feet, and chill with hot feet, at night. - Perspiration after heat,
· which attracts the fties.
.AnxioUII and solicitous, particularly about his health....._ Timidity, in the even·
ing, before falling asleep.- Dejection ofmind, with sexual impotence.
The head heavy as from a weight, .the same feeling in the abdomen. - Head
cloudy with vertigo ~d nausea.- Giddiness, as from rocking, after lyhlf down
and closing the eyes.
Pressing headache, after lying down, on that side, upon which one was lying.
- Heat from below arising to the head, like a flame.
Burning in the eyes.-Vehement inflammation; the eyes as iftoo large.
The ears very sensible to noise, particularly on fulling asleep.-The ears occa-
sionally affected.
The tongue swollen, so as to fill up the mouth, with a plentiful discharge of
saliva, resembling the white of an egg.
Taste viscid and herby. - Adipsia and aversion to cold water, with dryness in
the fauces and resophagus. - Hasty eating without hunger, only because the ·
stomach feels so hollow.
Eructation of little wind, or impeded by burning pressure in the abdomen.-
Nausea in the morning, with giddiness and stitches in th~ pit ofthe stomach.
Burning in the 1tomach; gradually changing into pressure and gnawing on
the pylorus. - Cutting transversely above the pit of the stomach. - Stitches in
the pit-ofthe stomach, accompani.ed with retraction of it, and causing weakness
and nausea. - Harassing throbbing in the pit of the stomach after walking.-
Jerks and stitches in the region of the spleen.
Spasmodic cutting about the navel, which compels one te bend. - Pulsation
and throbbing, or b~ming in the epigastrium, succeeded by a dull sensation. -
The hypogastrium tender to the touch.- Small putrid stinking wm'd.
8tool8 mostly papescent and inconsiderable. - Painful sensation of fulness in
the bladder, without urging to urinate.- The region of the bladder painful when
touched.- Shooting and drawiug'in the ureters, ofthe left side.
8ezual power weak. - Bloated , flabby, perspiring genitals.- The praputium
ft1ollen and sore, and remaining behind the glans after coition.- The glans dry
and red, with many minute pimples. - Impotence. - Failure of the voluptuary
sensation and semen during coition, or discharge too early and without sufficient
erection•
.I.. B~g in the nose, succeeded by vehement sneezing and flowing catarrh, in
are evenmg.
Th~ trachea and liJryn:r as ifcontracted, with wheezing, when breathing deep.
Cough, which seems to originate above the larynx.- Cough with oppression of
breath, caused by pressure on the pit of the stomac~, or prevented by a sensation
of heaviness therein.- .Weak, husky cough, at night and in the morning.- The
eough scanty and weak, but very painful. - Expectoration of small consistent
'lumps of phlegm. -Gasping cough with wheezing in the breast, without ex·
pectoration. ·
Digitized by Coogle
1~
\
Caladium.- Calcis carbonas.
OppresAion ofthe chest, particularly accompanying the burning in the llltomaeh.
- The breast lwllowJ and empty, a~r expectoration of phlegm.- Throbbing lwlow
the heart.......... Spasmodic sensation· between the shoulders, when walking, 80 ex-
ceBBively painful, that it almost eaul!efl falling. -Sensation in the back and saeral
region, as if beaten, in the morning on rising.
38. Calcis carhonas.
C•r6•••1• of li••· - Ge,... ¥•AI••••w• K•ller«. {j, ,l :'r .r : '· ~
Duration qfeffect: about 50 days.
Antit:Wtes: eamphora; spiritus ~etheris nitrici.
Used as antidote for : cinchona, quinin!
It anBIOers well after: Nitri acidum and sulphur.
After it may successfully be given: lycopodium, philBpMrus, ailieea.
Predominant effects: Cramp in several parts, and contraction especially of the
fingers and toes. - Wrenching pains.- Beating pains.- Arthritic complaints
and rending in the limbs, with greet liability to relap!le8 from the change ofweather.
- NumbneBB and deadneBB in several partS.- Liability to suffer from lifiing, and
from thence pain in the neck, or stiff swollen nape with headache.'-Gutric com-
plaints.- Bad consequences ofself-pollution. - Scrophulous complaints. - Com·
plaints ofchildren teething. - Polypus. - Hard, painleBB glandular swellings.-
Varices.- Arthritic nodes. - Exostosis and incurvation ofbones. - Caries. -
Agitation ofthe blood with plethora. - Chorea St. Viti. - Epileptic cramps, f!Ome-
times at night with shrieking and shouting. - Exacerbation and renewat ofdis-
orders after washing and working in water. - It is the most serviceable, when the
pupils are inclined to dilate; also pre-eminently adapted to the state ofinfancy.
General uncomfortableneBB in the evening, as before an attack ofintermittent
fever. - LoBS of power and lassitUde especially in the morning. - Nervotllf ez-
haustion. - Fatigue from speaking. - Great futipe from walking moderately in
the open air.- The upper-arms and thighs as if beaten, when ascending steps.-
Great desire to ~ mesmerized. - Exce8sive relaxation with violent spasmodic
laughing. - The body and fuce bloated with a tumid abdomen, in children. -
Emaciation with good appetite. - Great fatnes/f and corpulency of young men. -
Liability to take cold and great sensibility against cold damp air. - Visible duck-
ing in the skin from the feet to the head, which oeeasions dizzineBB.
Burning or biting itching. - Tedious eruptions. - Summer-freckle&- Nettzt&
rash, chiefly pas8ing away in cool air.-An eruption (between the shoulder-blades..,.
like the lentil seed, thickly grouped, of bright-red colour, with a painful itching.-
Hot dry skin, even when exercising. - Rough, rash-like, dry skin. - F\lrfura-
ceous covering of the skin.- Exuding, scurfy or clustery eruptions with burning
pains. - Herpes. - The skin galled on several !!pots. - Unhealable state of the
skin. - Erysipelatous inflammations. - Furuncles. - Warts. - Corns with BOre
burning pain. - Tumores cystici, which return and euppurate every 4 weeks. -.
Panaritia. - Hang-nail&
Digitized by G9ogle
Calcis carbonas. 109
DrowiJUW tluriftg 1M day and esrly ia the ewmng.- Late 1kepmg tuid aleep-
IMmeel, oecasi.oned by tlup rejlu:ioa or voluptuous or tlre~~.dful i1rurgi1141'gformr,
when cloeing the eyes.- Altwming tlreatnl, retJeriu and delirium with talking,
ehrlekirig, and terror in aleep, and continued anxiety after waking. -Chewing and
•wallowing in eleep. - Nocturnal tUthmatic affection with heat, fearftdne'' and
r~rtlumu&.- Pressure in the pit of the t!tomaeh at night, with a JiBing towards
the throat a~d head. - Nig(lt-thir6t.
Great internal eltillineu, with and without thirst. - Chills in the morning,
soon after rising. - Heat with thirst.- Frequent jlmhe' ofheat with anxiety and
beating on the heart. - Morning-fever. - Daily fever, at 2 o'clock in the after- ·
noon, gaping and coughing; then a general heat requiring to lie down, fur 3 hours;
upon that, cold hands; aH this without thirst. -Tertian evening-f"er, first heat
in the taee, afterwards chills. - GretJt per3piration during the day, 1Citla m(Hlerate
bodily exercise. - Pel'llpiration with anxiety. - Night-3fDeat3, particularly on the
eheet. - Moming-3fDeatr.
Melancholic depreeeed humor. - Readiaerr to weep. - Anxiety and anguirlt.,
excitable through reflections, or from listening to tales ofcruelty, or with horror
and terror in the evening twilight.- Anxiety, with palpitation of the heart and
pulling in the pit of the stomach.- Restless anxious dil!qpietude.- Earily frigh-
tened.- Uneasinel!8 with heaviness in the legs.- Desponding humor, with appre-
laenrion ofdireue, mirery and mirfortune.- Great gloominess and perverse humor,
withfreifulnerr and re{ftrhnesr.- lndift'erenc~. - Aversion to others.
Confounding of words and misapplying them. - Unconseiowmese, and illul!Ory
6mtmiiet!l. - Oppressive thinking.
A tedious indirtinctneBr ofthe head, as if a board were before it. - Dizzineu
from 11eratching behind the ears, and before breakfut, with trembling.- Giddinerr
eometimea with darkness befQre the eyes, by arcending aheight, by walkiDg in the
open air, by rapid turning of the head, and after vexation. ·
Headache after injury from lifting, from binding any thing round the head,
and from taking cold. - Attacks of hemicrania, with eructation and inclinAtion to
~. - Stunning pre.(ring or throbbing headache, increased especially from men-
tal exertion, drinkillg spirituous liquors and stooping.- Fulness and heavinerr of
the head, especially in the forehead, with inclination to close the eyes, aggravated
by exercise and bodily exertion. - Pressing pain in the upper-part of the head,
originating in the open air.-Outpressing, spasmodic,straining pain in the temples;
drawing up to tbe vertex. - Tearing in the rjght. side of tbe forehead, with pain
on the spot by touching.- Stinging pain in the head.- Boring in the forehead."""':'
._Hammering headache after walking in the open air, compelling to lie down. -
P' Ice-coldnerr in and on the head, particularly on the right side. - Conge6tion of
blood to the head.- BUZzing and pain in the head, with heat in the cheeks.
Great circumference of the head ofchildren, with open funtanela. - Et1e11ing-
IUJe4t on the head. - Great liability to take cold in the head.-:- Single real" on the
- rcalp.- Abscesses on tbe scalp.- Desquamation of t~e skin of the head.- Sore-
net!ll! of the roota of the hair. - TAe hairfalling off, also with lytng in women.
PreBrUre on·the eyer.- Itching and stinging in the eyes.- Sorenet!ll!, hming
and cutting in .the eyer and lidt!, particularly during reading by day or condk-
10
Digitized by Coogle
110 Calcis carbonas.
· light. - Senaation of coldne11 in the eyes. - OpAl/uJlmilil~ from taking cold, or
the entrance of.ome utraneo~U mb.tance, or in newborn itiftmt•, or 1crophulou
per10n1.- Tht~ eyes eloeed by matter.- Opacity of the cornea, macule, uJcen,
and fungus htematodes. - Blood exuding from the eye. - Suppuratirig fistula
lachrymali& - Running ofthe eyes in the morning.- Contraction of the eyelids.
in the morning.- Quivering in the lid&- Very dilated pupill.- Dimlightedneu
"from a milt, or gauze or feathel'll bifore the eyu, particularly when reading and
looking intently. - Darkening before the eyes while reading or after meal&-
Dazzling the eyes by a bright light.
Stinging in the ears.- Pulsation, throbbing and heat in the ear1.- Inflamma-
tion and swelling of th~ outer and inner ear.- Purulent dircharge from the ear.-
Moist eruption upon and behind the ears. - Pol1JPU1 in the ear. - Humming,
buzzing, ringing and thundering in the e81'11, &Ometimea intermittent with mWiie
therein. ~ Swuhing in the eara, while swallowing, and cracking when chewing.
- Diificult hearing , al110 after the suppreaaion of intennittent fever (with
Quinine).- Inflammatory 110eUing ofthe pcrotil.
Inflammation of the no8e with rednelll and ltDeUing.- Nasal cancer.- Ulcer-
ous, scurfy nqstrila. - Epistu.i&- Stench out oi the iloee.- Dull maeUing.-
Stench before the nose,_88 from dung, rotten eggs or gun-powder.
Yellow countenance.- Pale meager countenance.- Summer-freckles on the
cheeks.- Itching .and eruption in the face and in the whiskers, al80 a moilt •curfy
eruption on the cheeks and the forehead, with burning pain.- Onuta lactea.-
Rending in the facw bone•. - Swelling of the face, without heat.
Eruption on the lip• and the mouth.- Cracked lips.- Swellipg of the under-
lip. - Angles of the mouth ulcerous. - Deadneea of the lips. - PainfulltDeUing
ofthe IUlnnarillary glandl.
Toothache after drinking cold liquid, or excited by a draught, or cold, and aggra-
vated by noise, or renewed by cold and warm, or during and after menatruation,
and during pregnancy, mostly drawing-•hooting, or boring-gnawing, agitating,
aching 88 if sore and beating. - Nocturnal toothache 88 if from congestion of
blood.- Diificult teet/,ing. - Offenaive smell from the teeth. -:- Painful tendemeaa
of the gums and pricking therein. - The gums easily bleeding and swollen, with
beating and pulsation.- Fistula on the lower jaw. -
The mouth slimy. - Continued spitting out aaur saliva.- Vesicles in the
mouth and on the tongue. - Spasmodic contraction of the mouth. - Dryne11
of the tongue, at night and in the morning when awaking.- Difficult indistinct
speaking.- Ranula.
Pain in the throat, 88 if a amah knot or swelling were in the OlSOphagus. -
Tightnel!8 in the throat and BpaBmOdic 1tricture of the m10p/wg1u.-The throat _
rough and sore, with stinging pain in swallowiDg.- Inflammatory swelling of the '
palateand uvula, with a sensation, 88 ifthe throat were contracted, whenswallowing.
Bitter taste in the mouth, in the morning. - Sour ta~te in the mouth, and also
ofWod. - Strong eontinued thir1t, particularly for cold liquids, with anorexia.-
Hunger soon at\er eating.~ Bulimia, in the morning.- Tedious loathing ofmeat
and warm food.- Averrio.n to lfTIOking tobacco.- lVeak tlige•tion.- After drink-
ing milk, aamea with inclination to vomit, or sour return offood. - After meall,
heat or.flatulency with nausea, heat, pain in the abdomen and stomach.
Digitized by Coogle
•
Calcis carbonas. 111
Entetation with the taste ofwhat has been eaten, or bitter, or sour.- Hefirt-
6urn after every mtal, and loud continued eructation.
Name• in the morning.- Sour vomiting, particularly with children.- Vomit-
ing bf what has been eaten, or bitterish slime.- Black and bloody vomits.-
.Waterbl'lll!h, also after eating.- Children vomiting when teething.
8km14Ch-ache, mostly presring or pinching, or spaB1110dic4lly I!IIJUeezing and
eontracting, particularly after meals, with vomiting of the food. - Nocturnal
eramp in the stomach.- Prei!Sure in the stomach, also while fasting , or when
ooughing, or with preeaing out below the lower rib.J, or with rafting in .walking.
-Pinching, cutting and nocturnal prei!Sure in the pit of the stomach.-Distention
and BUJelling of the scrobiculus cordis and region of the stomach, and sorenees
when pressing on it.
Pain in the liller, mostly piercing, or straining-pressing. - Induration of the
liver.- Drawing pain from the hypochondres up to the back, with giddinei!S and
'darkening before the eyes. - Tightneu in both hypochondres. - Intolerance of
tight clothing about the hypockondres. ·
Inflation of the belly with great distention. - Frequent vieceral pain and
stitches in the sides of the abdomen ofchildren. -Contracting, gnawing abdominal
cramps, and colic. - Cutting poin in the epigastrium. - Piercing, or griping-
pressing belly-ache, without diarrhrea. - Coldness in the abdomen.- The mesen-
teric gl.atuh in children BUJOllen and hard.- Ob1tructedflatulency. - Urging from
flatulency towards the i'nguinal ring, as if it would occasion a hernia. - Loud
rumbling and grumbling in the belly. - Painful urging in the groins. - &Delling
Gnd painfulneBB ofthe inguinal glanth.
Oonltipatioft.- Hard, small, often failing, or indigested, thin stools.- Stool
only every two days and difficult.- Frequent contintud looleneu, stools twice a
day. -White !!tools. - Diarrhrea when teething. - Involuntary frothy stools. -
Sour ~melling or yellowish fretid diarrhala in children. - Lingering diarrhrea o(
acrophulous persons.- A•caride1.- Sensitive before stools and easily irritated. -
After stools, relaxation and fatigue. - Discharge of blood from the anus, with or
without stool. - Tapeworm discharged. - Swelling and frequent protrusion of
the lkzmorrkoidal tumor• of the rectum, particularly with the stool, with burning
pain. - Cramp, I!II)Ueezing and contracting of the rectum. - Burning in the
rectum and anus, with itching...... Burning clustery eruptions on the anus.
Painful urging to urinate (Dysuria). - Frequent urinating, sometimes at
night.- Dark-colored urine, without sediment.- Blood-colored urine of a sharp
and biting, stinking ~mell, with a white sediment.- Htnnaturia.- Effusion of
blOod from the urethra. - Hremorrhoides in the bladder. - Polypus vesiCle.-
Burning in the urethra, with or without urinating.
Inflammation of the prepuce, with rednei!S and burning pain.- Pressing and
bruising pains in the testicles. - Weak .enol power and absence ofsexual incli-
nation.:- Excited sexual pa.!!llion and wanton, lucivious thoughts. - Defective or
excessive poUutions.- Erections too short, with lax and late emission in coition.
- Stinging and burning in the genitals from the seminal discharge in coition. -
After coition, affection of the head and weakness.
Men~e~ too early and too cOpious...... Suppressed menses by plethora. - Before
menstruation, Swelling and painfulneee in the breasts. - During menstruation
Digitized by Coogle
112 CaJcis carbonas.
congestion of blood to the head and heat therein, or cu~ in the bowels and
grasping in the small of the back. - Discharge of blood during the intervals. -
Metrorrh~ia.- Abortus. - ·Sterility'• when the meUflefl are, too early and too
copious. - Tedious and painful afierpangs. ....:... Lochia too copious. - Shooting in
the orificium uteri and pret!Sure .in the vagina.- Pret!Sure upon the prolapeua
uteri. -Itching on the pudenda. -Inflammation and swelling of the privy parts,
with rednel!fl and burning pain. - Varices on the labia pudendi - Leucorrhrea
before memtruation.- LeucorrhfEa, itching burning, or like milk and diaeha.rged
with the urine.
'J1roublesome dryness of the nose.- Stoppage ofthe nose, with yellow stinking
pus therein.- Checked catarrh, also in the morning with much tmeezing.- Flow-
ing catarrh with ulcerated nostrils, headache and opp!'el8ion of the cheat. - Con-
firmed catarrh.
Phthi&s larynges.-Inceration ofthe larynx.-Tediotu orfreqt.ce~&l lwarsenus.
__:_ Pituitous state of tl1e breast.
Cough without expectoration, from a tickling in the throat, and frequently with
vomiting. - Hacking cough in the daytime, asfrom featheT- dust in tie throat. - ,
Cough occasioned by playing the piano. - Cough during pregnancy. - Cough in
the evening in bed, or.at night, sometimes in sleep, mostly vehement and dry.-
Cough tDitk a thick slimy or yellorD s#nking expectoration, mostly at night or iu
the morning.-Phthisis pulmonalia puTulenta.-Phthisis tuberculosa.-~m.
Obstruction of breath when stooping. - Sensation as if the hr~th remained
between the shoulder-blades. - Deep respiration.- .Astkmati4: a.ffecti8n, as from
an accumuJatio;. ofblood, with tightness, or relievmj. by bending the shoulders back. •
P~ure on the breast.- St,ilohes in the breast and its side1, whet~. moviJW,
from deep iU8piratiou, and when lying on the side atfec~. - Jerks in the bre.asa.
- Tendernesa and soreness ·
in the breast when inspiring and IJy touching.- Burn-
ing in the breast. - Palpitation of th.e heart, also a~ night or ujte., meal$. -
Anxious tremulous heart-beating.-Stinging, pressure andcontraction in the region
of the heart. ,...- Pricking in the pectoral muscles.- Hot swelling oC.be female
breasts. - Sore nipples. - Stopped or e~cessivc 1ecretion of milk when suckling.
Pains in the sacral region, baclc and neck, after improper lifting, or a1 ifwrencMd.
-Stinging pain in the small .
of the back, the back and the shoulder-bla4es. -
Nocturnal pain in the back. - Smart in the region of the loiqs and kidney~~, \Then
riding in a carfilige.-Drawing between the shoulder-blades or pressing pili) with
obE!truction ofbreath. - Swelling and incurvation of the vertebr~ ofthe neclc tmd
back. - Stitfnet!S an4 rigidity in the neck. - Thiclc, strumou• tumeftJctiem of'h6
thyroid gland.- Painful ~Welling ofthe glands oftl1e neck.
Pains in the arm, at night, mostly drawing and tearing. - Spa,nn and spas-
modic pain in the arms, hands find fingers. - Sudden disabli11g larlitude oftu
arm~. -Spasm(ldic drawing in the fore-arms.-Furuncles on the forE-arm and the
fi.Dprs.-- T4e Qilb!.ry glands suppurating.- Wrenching pain in the wrist.-
Swelling ofthe hands.- Arthritic nodes on the h4nd andjinger-joinu.-Distewled
nins on the hands.- Trembling of the hand&- Sweating hand1. - Deadneu of
'the 1umdf aadJngers, someUJ:pes in the warmth, and particularly when graaping.
- N~bn.ees and cr~pmg in thll fmJera. - Freqqent bmlene!lll" of the fi\ltJ8f& -
Digitized by Coogle
Calcis carbqnas.- Calcis phosphas.- Calcis sulphuretum. 113
, Unwieldiness of the fingel'l!.- The fingers crooked. - Warta on the arms and
hands.
Pains in the hips, with drawing stitches or tearing cutting.- Children leam
to wlllk late. - Stepping on the toes in walking and thence limping. - Stiffness
·and heavi'hess ofthe leg11.- SptJIJm in the leg11.-Wrenching jlain in the hip-, knee-
and fuot-joint. - The legs benumbed in l!litting. - Itching on the thighs, legs and
feet.-Varices on the thighs. Tearing and stinging in the knee, particul8rly in
standing and sitting. - StDelling ofthe lmee.. - TightneM below the knee, when
squatting down. - 8pum in the hollow ofthe knee, the calves, toles and toes, par-
ticularly when stretching the legs and putting on boots.-Red spots on the legs.-
E"JIIipelatominflammation and swelling ofthe legs.-White swelling on the thighs.
-meers on the thighii.-Swelling of the ankles and toes.- Burning in the sole•.
-Foot-meat.- Coldnes11 and tleadne.s ofthe feet in the etltming.- Painful ten-
derness ofthe big toe.- Corns with sore-burning pain.
39. Calcis phosphas.
.NB. Symptom• ol thie importan& remedy will appear ia the "Tnnaacti.o•• o£ tile Ae••••r··.
.40. Calci.s sulphuretum.
Duration of eff«t: in lower potenees only a abort time, in the highest about
60 days.
Antidote: Acetum, Belladonna.
Used u antidote in the lower potence• for: ammoni~e carbonas, antimonii sul-
phuretum, belladonna, cuprum, ferrum,jodinum, hydrargyrum, nitri acidum, silicea
and zincum. - In the highest peten~ it is a capital remedy in maladies caused
by misuse ofjodinum.
It anmer11 weU qfter: belladonna, lachesis, silioea, spongia, and zincum.
After it, an~J~Ders well: belladonna, hydrargyrum, nitri acidum, spongia (al-
ternating, in croup), ailicea (alternating, in panaritia). ·
· Predominant effects: Rending or dilabling druvnng in the e:rtremities, particu-
larly in the morning, on awaking. - Pain u ·if 11ore or beaten on different places,
tDiaen touched. - Piercing in thejoint11. - Arthritic swelling, with heat, redneaa
and wrenching pain. - Inveterate syphilis. - Bad ~e• ofthe miluse'of
mercti"J. - Caries. - Scrophulous complaints. - Swelling, inftammation and
8Uppuration of the gland.. - lnjlam111lJtioniJ going over to 8Uppuration. - Tltt>
pai':l6 origiMting or ezacerbated, at night, particularly during nocturnal chills.
Atrophy and emaciation in children. ~ Tremulous luritutle from smoKing to-
bacco, or when walking in the open air with heat and anxiety. - Fainting with
inconllitlerable pains, in the evening.
Eryripelmom injlGmmatioru ofexternal parts.- Burning itching on the body,
D,9,;ized by Coogle
114 Calci!l sulphuretum.
qb white vesiclee after scratcbiJlg.-Nettle-rash.-Efilorescenee and ntNly erup-
tiom tender to the t!YUCh. - 7'he skin dijficult to be healed. - Rhagades. - Ulcer•.
of • pu~rid stench (like old rotten cheese), bkeding very eallily, with .tinging
aAd fretting, or burning and throbbing (particularly at night). - Suptnlf'Q/;ionB of
all /Plllll, - Pa?Jaritia.
ExceaBi.ve sleepineBI in the mo~g and evening, wilh cornndrive gaping. -
Re&tlJias.letluarp 8l1Jmber, with the head bent backward. - Sleeplelsness eaued
by l¥le;umulation of thoughts. - Dreema offire. - 8tarting duri~ sleep at night.
1M iffrom want ofair, with whining and excesllive anxiety.
Much shivering and chill, particularly in the open air. -Chill, with ehat&ering
oi. the teeth and coldness of banda an<l feet, succeeded by heat and sweat, par-
ticularly on the breast and forehead, with small thirst.-First a bitter taste in the
mouth, then chill with thirst, after an hour, heat with sleep, suceeeded by vomit-
ing and headache. - Dry heat at night. - Flushes of heat with pe111pirati<ln. -
Propensity to perspiration, in the daytime.- Nigh~sweats. - Morning-sweat.-
·Clammy sour sweat.
Complaining sadness. - Excessive, fearful anxiety, almost leading to suicide.
in the evening. - Irksome humor, reluctance to notice his family.- Excessive
irritation.- Fretful irritability and vehemence, with quick hasty speech and great
weakness ofmemory. - Spectral illusions, in the morning in bed.
Giddiness, when shaking the head, or when riding in· a carriage, or in" the
evening, with na\lllf'.a. - Fainting-giddineBB, with evanescence ofsight.
· Headache, in the morning, from the least concUBBion.- Nocturnal headache,
when moving the eyes, as if the brain were preBBing ollt. - Pain in the head, as
if a nail were pierced into the skuU.-'- PreBIUTe in the temples and the verte:r:
with palpitation of the heart, in the evening. - TightneBB above the root oftoo
n011e.- Shooting in the head, after walking in the open air and when stooping,
as ifthe skull ~ould burst, sometimes at night. - Boring hetultu:he, particularly
in the root of the nose, every forenoon.
The hair falling Clff. - Cold sweat on the head. - Nodu on the head, acMag
as ifsore, when t!YUChed. - Tinea capitis humida.
Pains in the eyes, as if they would be retracted into the head. - Motion ofthe
eyes difficult and painful. - Pressing, b!ll"ning and shooting in the eyes. - Im-
mediately above the eye, pain as from an ulcer, every evening. - Inflammation of
the eyes and lids, sometimes eryllipelatoul, BCI'ophulous or arthritic, with sorene11
to the t!YUCh. - EtBorescence below the eyes and upon the lids.- Specb awl abs-
ces•u ofthe cornea. - RUIIning and nocturnal suppurative cementing ofthe eyea.
-Spasmodic contraction ofthe eyelids. - Protruded eyes. - The eyes becoming
· cloudy when reading.- Photophobia, in the daytime and at candle-light.- Dull-
sightedness, in the evening, at candle-ligh&, alternating with increased clearneM
ofsight.
Stinging in the ears, when blowing the nose.- Heat, redneM and itching of
the ears.- Inflammation ofthe interior ofthe ear. - StCaking purvlent dilcAarge
from .the ear.- Scaln behind the ears. -Cophollis, with throbbing and buuing in
the eq.r. •
lrtflqmmation of the nose. - The .noee smarting and tender to the touch, a1 if
o,giti~ed by Google
Calcis sulphuretum. 115
sore. - Epiltaril, in the morning, and after singing. - Defective smell, or exces-
sively delicate.
The face yellow, the eyes surrounded by livi4 circles.- Bright-red lwt flMle.-
Heat in the face, at night. - Erysipel6tous inflammation and tumefaction of the
face and cheeks, with a pricking tightness.- Racking pain from the cheeks to
the ears and temples. - Pain in the facial bones when touched. ...:... Tedious erup-
tions in the face. - Efflorescence on the forehead, disappearing in the open air.
The lips swollen with tightness, and pai1tful to the touch• ....,... L1cerous comers
of the mouth.- On the lips, chin and neek, boils, aching as ifsore, when touched.
-Blisters on the chin.- Stinging in the joint of the jaw, when opening the
mouth.
In the teeth a jerking pain, inc~ by compressing, eating and warmth of
. the room. - Swelling of the gums, painful when touched.
Collecti~n of water in the mouth. - Periodical attacks·of salivation, sometimes
during fever. - Hawking up phlegm. - Hoarse hasty speech.
Pain in the throat, a. iffrom a plug, or internal swelling.- Rasping pain in
the throat with impeded speech, sometimes when swallowing saliva. -Stitches in
the throat, as from splinters, when !!Wallowing, coughing, breathing and turning
the neck. - Dryness in the throat. - Swelling of the tonsils and gl6nds in the
throat.
Ageusia. c- Bitter taSte in the mouth and offood. - Ditter, earthy ta8te in the
throat, when the food itself tastes right. - Increased thirst. - Bulimia.- Long-
ing for acids and pickles only.-Loathing ofitt.-Desire for wine.-The stomach
frequently and very easily vitiated.
Eructation with burning in the throat.- Attacks ofnausea with coldness and
paleness. - Nausea in the morning with inclination to vomit. - Sour, bilious,
porraceous or bloody slimy vomiting.
Pressure in the stimwch, even after a very small meal. - Pressing swelling of
the region of the stomach. - Pressure, di1tention and adhesion in the pit oftje
stomach, with intolerance ofsitting and tight clothing.
Stitches in the spleen.- Stitches in the hepatic region, when walking.-
Nephritis, with stinging burning in the luu1bar region.
The abdomen aching, as if beaten, in the morning. ~ Contracting pain and
cramps in the abdomen. - Rafting about the navel, with nauSea, anxiety and hot
cheeks. - Cutting in the bewell.- A rasping smart in the abdomen.- Stitches
in the left side of the abdomen.- Suppurating tumefaction ofthe inguinalgl6nd8.
(Bubones).- Obstruction and ~cult discharge of wind, in the morning.
Stool lulrd and dry. - Difficult evacuation of small soft fiBOeS, with mueh
urging and tenesmus. - Feculent diarrhrea with abdominal pain. - Sour nsel-
ling whitilh diarrhrea, especially with children. - Greenish, clay-colored, bloody
slimy and dysenteric stool1. - After stools, soreness of the anus and secretion of
ichor from it.- Protruded piles. - Perspiration in the perinam~
Urine·tardy, turbid with a white sediment. - Copious discharge ofpale urine,
with pressure on the bladder.- Acrid, corroding, or dark-red hot urine.- Urinat-
ing at night. - Incontinence of urine in bed. - Bloody residuary urinating. -
Redness and intlainmation ofthe orifice of th& urethra. - Discharge ofalime from
the urethra. - Gonorrh<Ea secundaria.
•
Digitize~ by Coogle
116 Calcis sulphuretum.- Camphora.
Weakness of the genitals. - Rasping sensation, soreness and exudation between,
the thighs and the scrotum. - Chancre -like ulcers on the prreputium. - Painful
cramping and tightening erections. - Powerless erection during coition. - Exci-
tation to seminal discharge.- The prostatic.fluid escaping, sometimes after urin-
ating and with a hard stool.
Soreness on the pudettda and between the thighs.- Congelltion ofblood tOU!ards
the uterus.- Discharge of blood during the intervals of menstruation, with disten-
sion of the abdomen. __:_ Menses too late. - Lochia diseased. - Leucorrhrea with
rasping sensation on the pudenda.
Catarrh in the nose, particularly on one side with rasping in the throat.-
Offensive nasal mucus.
Hoarseness. - Croup. - Phthisis trachealis. .
Cough from irritation, or with pain in the larynx. - Deep asthmatic cough
from oppression of breath.- Vehement suffocating cough with vomiturition.-
Hooping-cough.- Bellowing cough.- Cough with,bloody expectoration.- Cough
after drinking. - Dry evening cough from a part of the body becoming cold, or
wpen lying ~n bed. - Attacks of a dry hoarse cough, with anxiety and choking,
sometimes termintJting with whining. - When coughing, vibration and pain in
the head, as if it would burst. - After coughing sneezing.
Anxious, hoarse, wheezing breath with danger of suffocp,tion, when lying. -
Suffocating fits, which require bending backward of the head. .
Stitches in the breast, when breathing and walking. - AbScesses and pimples
on the chest, stinging and smarting when touched. - Carcinomatous ulcef.: on the
breast.
The small ofthe back aching as ifbeaten, the pain extending to the thighs. -
Stinging and drawing in the back, between the shoulder-blades and in the muscles
of the neck.- Tightness in the back, at night, when turning in the bed.- Offen-
sive sweat of the axilla's. - Suppuration of(/i.e axillary glands.
The bones of the upper-arm smarting.- Arthritic SU!elling ofthe hand, fingers
and finger-joints, with heat, redness and a spraining pain, when moved.- Rough,
dry, cracked skin of' the hands. - Granulous eruption on the hand and wrist. -
The finger easily wrenched and sprained. -Deadness of the fingers. - Panaritia.
The nates aching on sitting. - Furuncles on the buttock.s. - Ischias with a
throbbing pain and inclining to suppuration. - The thighs aching as ifbeaten. -
Painful tension in the thighs preventing from sleep, at night. ....- Often a sudden
lassitude in the legs, when walking. -;- Swelling of the knee. - Spasm in the
calves, soles and toes. - Burning of the feet. - Swelling about the ankles, with
difficult breathing. - Rhagades on the feet. - Stinging in the eorns.
.41. Camphora.
L11ttru1 cDmph.,ra, aDd Dryo6t~lanop•.- Cd•pllor.- Gnm. H~•pfrr.
Its duration ofeffect is short and quick, sometimes only for· a minute.
Antidotes: opium, spiritus retheris nitrici.
Digitized by Google
Camphora. 117
Used 1J8 principal antidote for: cantharis, also spongia arul moschus; as a pal-
liative for most vegetable poisons; amanita, anacardinm, nrnica and asarum,
bovi.sta, capsicum, clematis, cocculu!J, drosera, euphorbium, helleborus, hyoscia-
IDUii, laurocerasus, ledum, lycripodium, mezereum, nux vomica, opium; ruta, sa·
badilla, sabina, scilla, secale, senega, spij"elia, litaphysagria, tabacwu, thuya,
toxicol!endron, valeriana;· ·
furthermore for; ncidum muriaticum, nitricum, phosphoricum; ammonis; ba-
ryta; calcis carbonas; carbones, hydrargyrum, phosphorus, potasa&l carbonas,
llilicea, sodal carbonas, and murias; stroutinna, sulphur, zincum.
It was ofinjurious effect ufter: nitras potal!sre.
Predominant effects: Convul#iom and cramp• ofd.ifl'erent kind.- Tetani, with
uncollliCiousness and vomiting, - Epileptic fits. - Asiatic cholera. - Influenza.-
Uueasine!IS, relaxation arul heaviness in the whole body.- General prostration of
strength. -Fainting fits. - Knacking and jarring in the joints. - Rheumatic
shooting in the muscles.- Unwieldiness of the limbs.- Painfulnell!! in the peri-
osteum of all the bones. - Batl effects ofusi71g opium and cockle-seeds. - Effects
of taking eold. - The antidote to the effects of mo•t vegetable medicines and of
many othel'B. - The most compla'ina originate mexertion and arise when occu-
pied, and V8Jlish when we think upon them, or at ljjght; aggravated by coldness,
open air, and touch.
The skin painfully tender, even with the slightest touch. - Erysipelatous in-
jlam'lll4tiona.
Great drowsiness in the daytime.- Sopor with delirium.- Nocturnal aleep-
luaneN, from excelll!ive nervous irritation. - Snoring and talking in sleep.
Excessive susceptibility ofcold air and taking cold quickly.- General coldneu
of the whole body, with a deadly pale countenance, shaking chills and chattering
of the teeth. - Augmented temperature of the body, with redness of tlte face,
particularly on the cheeks and ear-flaps.- General heat, which is at the highest,
when.walking.- Uncommon, small, slow, or unusually quick, full pulse.- A
sense ofdryness on and in the whole body.- Febris nerv(/sa lenta.
Lamenting anxiety.-Wrangling and quarrelsome temper.
'Vani1hing of aemea. - Unc011$ciou&ne81.- Delirium: - Fury. - Loss of
memory.
Reeling a1td 1taggering when walking.- GiddineBB and hcavine11 ofthe head,
so that it sinks backward.
Headache, as if the brain was sore. - Dull hoodache over the frontal bone
with inclination to vomit. - Conatricting headache, particularly in the occiput,
and above the. root of the nose, excessively increased by stooping, lying down,
and touching, and imtantly vanishing, when thinking on it.- Cutting strokes
through the head after lying down.- Throbbing headache, at night, with shoot-
ing in the forehead and heat. - Congestion ofblood to the head.- Phrenitis, espe--
cially caused by the heat ofthe run.
The head spasmodically drawn aidewarda.
Ophthalmitil.-Red epota on the eyelids.-Twite~ ofthe eyelids. - Stari"K
•
Digitized by Google
118 Campbora.- Cannabis.
upwards distorted eyes. - Contracted pupils. - Opacity of sight. - Odd appear·
ances before the eyes..- Photophobia. - Every thing appears too bright and
glittering. ·
Ears hot and red, \lspecially on the laps.- Deep-red 8Uppurating abllce" in
tAe auditory pa311age, with shooting presaing pain.
The face deadly pale or bright-red. - Erytlipelu in the face.- Spumodic dis-
tortion of the face.- Tri8mu11.
Toothache, as from a llwelling ofthe rubma:rillary gland11, with a sell88tion a.e
if the teeth were too long. - Cutting strokes on the roou. of the fore-teeth.-
Painfullooseness of the teeth. '
Stench from the mouth, in the morning. - Froth bifore the mouth. - Con-
fluence of much viscous, slimr saliva.
Sore throat, when swallowing, as from soreness in the resophagus, also at
night.- Heat and burning in the re~~oplwgus, from the palate down to the stomach.
A very strong taste of all food, especially of beef broth.- Bitter tallte of to-
bacco and of victuals, particularly of meat. -Loathing and avenrion to tobacco
81Iloking. ·
Inclination to vomit succeeded with attacks of giddiness. - Vomiting of bile
IJn{l blood.- At the beginning ofa vomit a cold sweat, especially on the·face.
Gastritis.- Burning in the stomach.- The pit of the stomach as ifbeaten.
Abdominal cramps.·- Drawing sore pains of the whole right side of the beUy.
- Sense of fulness in the abdomen.- Sensation of coldness or burning heat in
the epigastrium and hypogastr-Wm.
Constipation.- Difficult stool, as from inactivity of the intestines or a stricture
ofthe rtctum.- Blackish evacuations.
Retention ofurine.- Thin spouting, slow passing urine.-Porraceous, turbid,
mouldy smelling urine.- Hrzmaturia.- Burning when urinating.
Absence ofsexual inclination, and impotence.
Deep and slow breathing. - Su.ffocati1ig oppression of the cheat and constric-
tion of the throat, as from the vapour ofsulphur.
Cramps in the breast from the vapours of copper and arsenic. - Inflammation
of the breast after a cold: -Shooting in the breast.- Audible beating of the heart,
on the ribs, after meals.
Tightness and stiffness in the nape, when moving the neck.- Drawing shoot-
ing between the shoulder-blades, when moving the arms.
Convulsive circular movement of the arms. - Tearing pressing on the upper-
and fore-arms.
The thighs and knees ache as if beaten. - Tearing squeezing in the legs and
feet. - Spasm in the calves. - Tearing in the points of the toes and under the
nails, when walking. ·
.42. Cannabis.
Duration ofeffect : in chronic cases about 20 days.
Predominant effects: Tt4ring, contracting aud diiiGbling paim, or rending
Digitized by Coogle
Cannabis. 119
deep 1titchu and strokee on many spots, and pinching, as with fingers.- Rheum-
atic drswing, as if in the periosteum of the bones, when moving. - General lal-
8itude, with staggering and pain in the knees. - Exhaustion from speaking and
writing. - Hysterical complaints. - Tetanus, especially of the upper extremities
and the trunk. - Complaints of bodilyfatigue and exertion.- Many complaints '
exacerbated ·or excited by touching, open air, and warmth, likewise at night and
after midnight.
Invincible sleepiness during the iUJy.- IQ. the morning, when awaking, more
weary, than in the evening before going to sleep:- Sleeplessness at night.-
Great anguish, at night, with pricking and burning over the skin, as ifhot.water
had been poured over it.
Shivering and chill with thirst, while outwardly coldness and uneasiness.-
Slow and hardly perceptible pulse.
Doleful, unempassioned disposition.-Great mortification about mere trifles.-
Easily frightened.- Now gay, now grave, now furious madness.
Vacillating and uncertain mind, occasioned by too lively thoughts.-Frequently
writing wrong.- Vanishing ofthoughts.- Want of words.
Attacks ofgiddiness in walking and standing, even to falling sidewards.
Headache, as ifa stone lay upon it.-Pres8ure and straining in the temples.-
Compression in the sinciput, from the rims of the orbits to the temples.- Con-
gestion ofblood to the head, with throbbing therein, with red, hot cheeks.
Creeping on the scalp and a frequent sensation, as if drops ofcold water were
falling on it.
Pains in the eyes as from an iqward pre88Ure backward.-Spasmodic drswing
in the eyes. - Ophthalmitis scrophulosa. - Weak sight and dimsighted as to ob-
jects far and near.- Opacitg ofthe cornea~ - Cataracta;-White flaming serrated
circle before the eyes.
Cramping earache. - Throbbing and pre1sure in the ears.- Buzzing and as if
a membrane were before the ears.
Swollen nose with a copper-colored redneas.- Bleeding from a hot dry nose.
Pale face. - Creeping, itching and biting in the fuce, as from salt.- Jerking
in the facial muscles. ·
Drynt>ss of the mouth, widl viscous saliva, without thirst.- Embaraued
speech, at one ·lime deficient in words and at another in tone.- When speaking,
great anxiety and torrpent from pain in the back.
Eructation ofwind. ...., Rising ofa bitterish-sour, 1cratchgliquid.
Nausea, with relish for food. - Choking from the pit of the stomach to the
throat. - Vomiting greenilh bile.
The stomach painful to the touch, u ifulcerated.- Paroxysms ofa vehement
eramp in the stomach with paleness and sweat in the face, the pulse nearly lost,
and the breath rattling.- Pressing, pinching and cutting in the pit ofthe stomach
and over the stomach. . ..
Painful hard swelling in the region of the liver.- Pain. in the kidney• and in-
.ftammation.
Belly-ache, as ifall the bowels were 801'e.- Colic pains in the epigastrium. -
Throbbing in the epig...trium as from within outwardly. - Painful jerks in the
Digitized by Coogle
•;
120 Cannabis.- Cantharis.
abdomen, as from something alive in it.-8hakiag ofthe intestinee, when moving
the arms, as if they were loose.- Hydropl! saecatus. - Jerking and preseing out
in the inguinal region.
Diarrhrea with colic-like beUy-ache.- Pressing forward in the rectum. - Sen·
sation as ifsome cold were dropping from the anll8.
Efforts to void urine, with pressing pain.- Diffieult urination, u from paraly~
sis of the bladder.~ The urinal passage stopped with mucus and pus.- The urine
whitish, or reddish, as if mixed with blood-fibres, or turbid. - Flow of urine. -
Spread stream of urine.- Scanty bloody rile, etJCaping by drops, with Imming.-
Inftamed urethra, painful when touched. - Waterish-slimy diseharge &om the
urethra. - Gonorrhrea urethrte. •
Coldness of the genitals. - Itching and i1fflam111tltory swelling ofthe prepuce,
glans and penis, with dark redness. - Pressure in the testicles and tightness in
the spermatic cord, when standing. - Swelling of the prostata. - Straining pain-
ful erections. - Disinclination to coition.- Impotence.
Sterility.- Abortion with convulsion&
Dryness and heat in the nose.- Catarrh ofthe trachea.- Aphonia.
Vehement dry cough. - Cough with a viscid green expectoration.
Dyspnoe, as ifa weight lay on the chest, with whistling in the traebea;-Short,
oppressed breathing.- Breathing only possible in an erect posture.-·Asthmatic
affection and oppression of the chest, with anxiety in the throat.- Rattling breath.
Shooting in the chest deep within, when breathing speaking and moving.-
Peripneumonia. - Painful pushing and beating about the heart. - Tight affection
ofthe region ofthe heart, with palpitation oftlte heart and anxiety. - Beating of
. -
the heart on a lower spot. - Cardit·is.
Pain in the back, which prevents speaking and obstructs the breath.- Stitching
pain between the shoulder-blades.~ Pressing out in' the small of the back and .
pressure on the os coccygis.
The shoulders and arms ache as if beaten, when touched.- Spasm in the hand#~
and fingers. - Sudden laming of the hand, with trembling, when taking c:Old,
and incapacity to hold any thing fast.
Spasm.in the thighs, calves and hollows of the knees. - The patella slipping
over, when 'ascending steps. - Knocking, drawing, straining and tightening pain . ·
in thefeet andfoot-joints, as after great exertion ofthefeet•
.43. Cantharis.
Duration ofeffect: about 20 days.
Antidote: camphora.
PretJminant effects: Burning as ifraw and sore in all cavities ofthe body.-
Inflammation ofinternal organs.- Rending shooting towards the inside, on dif-
ferent parts.- Arthritic rending in the limbs, with urinal complaints.- Acute
pains with lamenting and moaning.- Sen!lll.tiori ofdryness in the joints.- Inflex· '
ibility of the whole body. -Faintness and weakness with exfessille tenderne11 '?{
Digitized by Coogle
Cantharis. 121
every part, tremor and lying down. - OoavullionB. - Tetontu. - Icterical com·
plaints. ..2.. The complaints attack more the right side, and are relieved by lying
down.- Paroxy81118 returning every 7 days.
Itching vesicles, with burning pain when touched. - Erysipelatous i'lfla~ma­
tions. - Rending in ulcers with increased discharge.
Great sleepiness, in the afternoon, with gaping and stretching. - Sleeplesme11
without cause.- Coma vigil with frequent awaking, at night. '
Fever only with coldness. - Chilliness and shaking chills with goose-skin and
pale countenance.
Lamen&able dejection. - An.rious apprehension with restlessness, which re-
quires a constant movement. - lrkllomene51;1 and inclination to anger.- Furor,
with ~;hrieking, bellowing, and striking. - Hydrophobia.
Delirium.- Mentalconfusion.- Insanity with ridiculous action and behaviour.
Giddiness, with uncolli!Ciousness and mist before the eyes, mostly in the open air.
Headache, which interrupts sleep at night. - Pre&~ing shooting in the head,
disappearing in walking. - Rending headache with giddinese. - Congestion of
blood to the head. - Throbbing in, and he.at rising to the head. -Burning in the
head as ifraw and sore. - Phrenitis.
' Drawing, jerking, and gnawing in the bones of the head.- Headache as from
pulling the hair. - Bristling of the hair.
The eyes as if raw and sore, particularly the lids, when opening the eyes. -
Ophthalmitis with acute burning pain. - Yellowness ofthe eyes.-Protrusion and
spasmodic motion of the eyes.- Objects appear yellow.
laftammation of the ears with burning heat in them.
Swelling of the nose, also internally, with redneu and burning heat.- Nau-
seous stench before the nose.
Pale countenance. - Sunken, horribly despairing, death-like countenance. -
Yellow-colored face. - Erysipelas in the face, with desquamation of the skin.-
SweUing on one halfofthe face, the right side, with tightn8118.
Inftammation of the lips with swelling.- Soreness and scaling of the lips.-
'IHsmus.
'toothache, mostly drawing, aggrav~ by eating.- Fistula Jlf t, . ,
Suppuration of the gums. · . 1•• · 'I
Stench of the mouth as from cedar pitch. - Inftammation of thf;,.mem • n·
of the mouth.- Bleeding tumor on the interior of the cheek.- Apbtbre 1n the
mouth. - Frothy salivation with streaks of blood. - Clotty bloocf comes into the
mouth.-Inftammatory swelling and suppuration of t~e tonguf!.- Weakness of
the organs of speech andfaint speech.
Sore throat when StDallotDing.- Difficult swallowing, with choking in the reso-
phagus and rising of half digested food, at night. -lmpedlllt.ttDallotoing, partic-
ularly with liquid.J.- Burning in the msophagus, when swallowing. - Injlamma-
t~ and suppuration ofthe tonsiZ. and the alSOphagus. ,
Ageusia.-Ta~~te in the mouth and .throat, as from cedar pitch.- Thirst from
dryness of the lips, with aversion to .all liquid.• .,.- Anorexia with loatMng anti
cversion to allfood.
Eructation with burning, like heart-bam, wlaic.\ il aggra»ated by driftling.
11
f''
Digitized by Coogle
122 Cantharis.
Vomiting ofwhat has beenMten.-Bilious slimy and bloody 110miting.
Great tendemese in the region of the stomach....:._Prt!l!lling fuJneBB with mtziety
and uneasiness in the atomach.- GtJBtritiB, with acute bunting painl.
Nephritis:- Dull, ahooting, jerking throbbing and rending pain in the region
of the kidneys. - HepatitiB. - Shooting and contraction in the right hypo-
chondrium.
The abdomen exceesively tender to the touch. - Burning in the abdomen,
extending up to the resophagus and down to the rectum. - Burning over the
navel, when coughing, sneezing and blowing the nose, with yellow spots on the
place affected.- Enteritis.-Ascites.- Obstructed.flatulency under the short ribs.
Alvine obstruction and hard stools.- Diarrhrea, frothy, freculent, or greenish-
slimy, with cutting in the bowels after stool.- Dysenteric diarrhrea with whitish
consistent slime, like scraping of the intestines, with streaks of blood, at night. -
Bloody evacuations.
Retention ofurine with spasmodic pains in the bladder. - Ineffectual efforts to
urinate. - Difficult discharge of urine, with a thin, divided stream.- Inere.ased
secretion of urine.:- Pale-yellow or dark, red urine.- Bloody slime discharged
from the bladder.- Hamuzturia, the urine passing by drops.- Urine containing
pus.- Burning biting when u~inating.- Cutting in the urethra before, during
and after urinating....:.Jn.ftammation and suppuration ofthe urethra and bladder.-
Gonorrhrea urethrre, also suppressed.- Gonorrhrea secundaria.
Drawing in the spermatic cord when urinating,- Inflammation and gangrene
in the genitals. - Painful tumefaction of the testicles. - Excesaive sexual incliM-
tion, with many, rigid, continued and painful erections.-Slight escape ofsemen,.
when toying amorously.- Gonorrhrea vera.- After coition, burning in the
urethra.
hfenstruation too early and profuse, with black blood and pains when escaping.
-Abortus.- Oaritis.-Swelling of neck of the uterus.
Tedious catarrh, with discharge of much viscous slime from the nose.
Hoarseness, with painful hawking to loosen the accumulated viscid slime in the
chest, and cutting shooting in ·the trachea. - Tracheitis.- Sensation of excessive
iceaknel_s,in the organs of respiration, when speaking and deep breathing.-
Weak,~Y,earful, trembling voice. ·
Tlie respiration dfflicult and oppreSBed, from constriction o( the larynx and
dryness of the nose.- Obstructed breath, when ascending an eminence, with
ebullition on the chest and nausea.
Inflammation of the organs of the cheat.- Stitches in the chest and its sides.-
Burning in the chest, with single clots of blood coming out ofit.- Palpitation of
the heart.
Rending in tke back.- Sen811tion as if the spina were laced together.- Te-
tanus, bending fonDwrds or backwards. ··
Rending in the arma.- The hands powerless.
Arthritis ischiatica,_
with spasmodic complaints in the bladder.-Boring renltng
'in the legs, from the feet to the hips.-Tremor in the legs.
Digitized by Coogle
Capsicum.
4.4. Capsicum.
Capn..a G1111na.- C•r-• ,.,,.r.-Germ. S,•lli•clo•r Pf•f•r.
Duration ofeffect: about 20 days.
Antidote: camphora.
Used as antidotefor: cinchona; and for caladium externally.
123
Predominant effects: Pressing pains. - Drawing pains in the limbs, excited·
by motion.- Affection of the joints.- Wrenching pains and stiffness of the
joints, with knacking and jarring.- Cramp in the body; with stiffness ofthe arms
and legs, which creep, as ifbenumbed.-Fear ofmotion. -Complaints appearing
in the evening and at night and exacerbated by touching, open air and coldl)ess.-
Particularly appli~able to persons ofa flabby fibre and phlegmatic temperament.
Sleeplessness from gaiety, 'without uneasiness.- Dreamful sleep.
Fever-chills and coldness·of the whole body, with ill humour, increasing together
with the coldne!l!!, or with anxiety, reeling and confusion in the head.- Chills
originating from the back. - Chill arnl.shivering, after every draught. - Chill
with excessive thirst, succeeded by heat with or without thirst and sweat. During
chill, headache, giddiness, salivation, vomiting of slime, painful swelling of the
spleep, pain in the back, tearing in and complete contraction ofthe limbs. During
tteat, shooting headache, offensive taste in the mouth, cutting in the bowels with
ineffectual efforts to stool, pains in the chest and back, rending in the legs.-
Q,uotidian and tertian fever. - Intermittent fever with predominating chills and
attended with thirst. - Fever after the misuse ofcinchona.
Liq/Jility, 'to be easily frightened. - Dissatisfaction. - Obstinacy.'- Grtlllt
readiness to take offence, and soon angry, from only a jest. - Capriciousness.-
Home-sickneBI, with redness ofthe cheeks.
Dullness ofevery sense.- Indiscretion with inaptitude, which stumbles over
every thing.
Dizziness. - Intoxication aii from spirituous liquors.
Pains in rhe head, as if splitting, when walking and moving the bead.-
Shooting pressing hemicrania, with nausea, vomiting and great forgetfulness.-
Shooting or drawing rending headache, particularly in the sides of it.- Pains
pressing asunder the brain, as from fulness.- Throbbing headache.
Fretting itching on the scalp, with pains at the roots of the hair, and pains of
the cuticle of the head, after scratching.
Pressure on the eyes, a11 if a foreign substance were in them.- Ophthalmitis,
with redness, burning and running.- Protruded eyes.- Dimsightedness, in the
morning, as ifsomething swam on the cornea, which becomes better for a moment
by rubbing. - Incipient amaurosis.
Rending in the ears.- Itching and pressing deep in the ears. - Painful swel-
ling on the os petroswn, behind the ear.
Epistaxis, in the morning, in bed. - Painful efflorescence under the nostrils.
Redness ofthe face, alternating with a miserable pale countenance.-Many red
points in the face. - Corroding itching herpes on the forehead. - Pains in the
face, partly in the bones, from touching, partly nervou6 and tormenting when
iiilling asleep.- Dull prumre on the zygomtltic bone. •
Digitized by Coogle
124 Capsicum.- Carbo anlmalis.
Swelling of the lips.- Ulcerous eruption and crackl on the lip1.
Toothache, as if the teeth were set on edge and too long. - Drawing in the
teeth and the gums.- Swelling of the gums.
Stomacace. - Burning ve;,icles in the mouth. - Viscid slime in the mouth.
Sore throat with painful swallowing and drawing in ·the resophagus. -Spas-
modic contraction of the resophagus.
Watery and insipid taste.- Sour taste in the mouth and also of meat brotb.-
~bsence of hunger.- Desire for coffee, and after drinking it, inclination to vomit.
-Heart-burn.
Inclination to vomit, mostly in the pit of the stomach, with pressure on the spot.
Paine in the stomach and distention ofit.- Sensation ofcoldness in the stom-
ach.- Burning in the stomach and the 1crobiculus cordil, immediately after meal1.
-Stitches in the pit of the stomach, when breathing deep and quick, speaking
and touching.
Distention ofthe belly, even to bur1ting, with pre1sing tightness and obstructed
br~ath.- Drawing and agitation in the abdomen. - Strong pulsation in the ab-
domen.- Flatulent colic.- Pneumatocele inguinalis. '
Tenesmus.- Small, bloody, dyienteric, t<limy diarrhrea, preceded by flatulent
colic in the hypogastrium. - Nocturnal· diarrhrea wit~ burning in the anus. -
Blind piles, with pains when evacuating.
Dys.uria. .;_Frequent, nearly ineffectual efforts to urinate.- Burning when
passing urine,- Spasmodic, cutting contraction on the neck of the bladder.-
Cutting and shooting in the urethra besides when passing urine.- Gleety puru-
lt>nt discharge from the urethra. - Hremorrhagia uret?trcz.
Impotence and coldness of the genitals. - Too violent morning-erections.-
With amorous dalliance, tremor of the whole body.
Stoppage ofthe head, with cmwling and tickling in the nose.- Hoarseness.
Cough, mo1t violent in the evening ond at night, with pains in other partl,
particularly in the bead and the bladder, as if they would burst, or with pre1sure
;n the thro11t and ear, as if an abscess would burst ~here. - Cough after coffee-
drinking.- Cough with offensive breath and loathSome taste in the mouth.
Inclination to deep impirations.- A1thmatic affection, as if from the stomach~
Pains in the chest as iflaced together.-;Shooting in the chest when respiring,
-Throbbing pain in the breast, with obstructed breath and, aggravated b.y
exertion.
Drawing rending in the bi.lck.- Stiff neck.
Tightaess in the knees and spasm in the calves when walking.
45. Carbo animalis.
Duration ofeffect: about 40 days.
Antidote: camphors.
.U~ed a1 antidotefor: hydrargyrum.
Digitized by Coogle
Carbo ani~alis. 125
Predtnnirunat e§ecu: Prenifa&' J1Gin1 in tM joinU and mutclee ofthe limbe.~
Burning pains. - Nocturnal paim in the joint& - The limbe 88 if beaten; weak,
lmack.iog and eaeily eprained. - ArlAritic •tiffruu and gouty nodes qfthejoi~.
- Tightnt!88 in illolated limbs, 88 from shortening of the tendona, and contraction
ef the parte. - Eamy injured bg lifting. '
Torpor ofall the limbs, and particularly ofthe head.-Veryweary and aluggiah
in the morning. - Much fatigued frqm walking. - Very 1mlihle to the open Gir,
especially in winter time. - Agitatien of the blood, and easily overheated.
Itching all over the body, especially in the evening, in bed.- Erysipelatous in-
ftauunationa. - Chilblai111. - Hard fHJiriful glandular ltDelling1. - Swelling of
external parte with a burning pain.
LatefaUing uleep, and aleeplearmeM at night, from re1tlemau1, a~g, agit-
ation of the blood.and fear of auffocation.- Horrible visions before falling aaleep.
-Sleep full of reveries, with whining, talking and moaning.
Chillinu1 , in the evening in bed, ,succeeded by perspiration during sleep.-
Exceasive coldne11 of the feet and banda, in the evening. - Heat at night. -
EtUily perlpiring in the daytime, particularly during meall and walking.- Offen-
sive or debilitating night- and morning-nocatl, particularly on the thighs. - Per-
spiration making the linen yellow.
Home-ricknuB and mournful sensation ofdesertion, with lamentation.- FtUW-
fulne•• and horror in the evening. - Hopele~aneM and desperation. - Euily
frighteMd.- Alternating,gaiety and sadne~a, exCeMive irritation and moroaity.
Frequent confusion and obstupefaction, especially in the morning.
. '
GiddineBI in the morning; with nausea when rising up from stoopinrand
lying; or with obscuration of sight, when moving the head.
Headache, in the morning, 88 at\er intoxication.- Headache, increued in cool
and damp air. - Hea1Jine111, particularly in the occiput, with dizziness. - Pre•-
ling headache, sometimes at\er dinner, and with depression of the eyes. - Con- ·
geetion of blood to the head, with lieat. - Sensation as if the brain were looee, on
motion. ~
Rending externally on the right aide of the head. - T.tneas of the skin of
the forehead and vertex. - The sc!alp v£ry tt>nder to the pressure of the bat. -
Scab• on the head.
The eyes as if loose in the orbits, with weakened eight. - Pre11byopia toith
dilated pupill. ·
Running ear~.- Confused hearing, tones mixed together. - Buzzing in the
ear1. - Swelling of the periosteum behind the ear. - Swelling of the paroti.a.
.The point of the nose red and cracked, with burning pain.- The nose swollen
with a tcurfY eruption.- (Carcinoma of the noee.)- The akin of the nose peeling
off. - Painfulness of the nasal bonea. - Epistaxis, at\er giddiness or preMing
headache.
Erylipelal in the face. - Rose-red, smooth, thickened epota in. the fiace. -
PaioleM efflorescence and copper-colored eruption in the &ee. - Swelling of the
mouth and lips with burning. - Veeiclee on the lipe. - Cracked bleeding lips.
Toothache, drawing when eating bread, or throbbin~ at\er drinking cold.-
Digitized by Coogle
..
126 Carbo animalis.
Great looeeneee ofthe teeth. - Red painful swelling and bleeding ofthe guma. -
Suppurating t1Uicle1 on the gu'TM.
Stench from the mouth. - Burning blistel'll in the mouth and on the tongue.
- Tongue and palate dry.
Th~ throat 81D8l'ti.ng, 88 if raw and sore, atcended with f!18Ping and stingiDK
in the 0!80phague and down to the s&omaeh. - Much phlegm in the throat, with
he~Jl~Ding and hawking.
Bitter tate in the mouth, eepeeially in the morning. - Slimy sour tate.-
Aversion to fat, and smoking tobacco, which cauees naueea.- E~ceuive toeaknul
ofdigution, almo1t every meal produce• uneal'ineu.
Eructation, with the taste ofwhat has been eaten, or sour.-Ineffectual effort~
to eructate, wit/a pcrin. - Rasping heart-bum.- Hiccupping after meals.
NaUiea, sometimes at ~tight. - Faintieh wambling. - Waterbrash.
PruiUre in the ltomtlcll., 8s from a weight, while fa&ting, and in the evening
after going to bed. - ContrtJCting cramp in the 1tomtJeh. - lllf6i"K and gnuping
· in the 1tomach. - Audible rumbling in the stomach.
The liver aches 88 if bruised, when touched. - Pressing and cutting in the
region of the liver.
The abdomen distended and tight.- Constriction and grasping in the abdomen.
-Cutting and stinging in the groins.- Hernia in~inalis.- Audible rumbling in
the abdomen.- Ob•tructedjlatulency. - ,Ofiensive wind escaping.
Ineffectual tl{ging to 1tool, only voiding wind. - Hard, knotty stool. - Fre-
quent evacuations. - Before stool, drawing from the anus through the pudenda.
7 During evacuation, pain in the small ofthe back. - Burning hemorrhoids. -
Burning and 1tinging in the anUI and rectum. - The anus sore and oozing. -
Tape-worm discharged.- Easily galled by riding, with large blillters afterwards.
The perineum exuding a clammy moistaess. .
Strong urging to urinate, with augmented discharge.- Urinating at night.-
Involun~ry escape ofurine. - Stinking urine.- Ardor urine.
Lack of sexual passion. - Many seminal emissions, succeeded by weakness
and oppression.
Meme1 too early.- .UVCorrhaa, burning hot, or making the linen yellow. -
Thin, offensive lochia.
Stoppage of the no~e and in the head. - Flowing catarrh, with anosmia, much
sneezing and gaping.
Catarrh, in the evening and at night.- Aphonia at night.-HoaJ'IIeness in the
morning.
Rough cough, with soreness in the throat.- Dry night-cough.- Suffocating
cough, in the evening, after falling asleep.- Cough in the morning with expecto-
ration, produced by dryness in the throat. - Cough, with expectoration of a
greenish pus, and stitehee in the right side of the breast.- Phthw pulmonali8
purulenta.
Asthmatic breathing. - Rattling in the chest, in the evening in bed. - Tight-
neee of the chest, in 'he morning and after meals. - Suffocating co~on of
the chest, in the morning in bed.
When inspiring, stitches in the chest, 88 from an uleer.-Sensation ofeoldne.se
Digitized by Coogle
Carbo animalis.- Carbo vegetabilis. · 127
in the chest.- PalpittJtitm ofthe heart, in the morning and evening, and during
singing in the church. - Painful inclurtJtecl glaw and knot• in the female breblt.
- ErylipelatOUI Uufammatitm ofthe brei'UU ofconfined women.
Pa.i.ne in the beck, at night. - Preatling and •hooting in lhe ~mall ofthe back,
when drawing a deep breath. - Burning pain on the oa coccygiB, when touched.
- Burning in the back.- Indurated tumefaction~ ofthe glaw ofthe throat; with
•tinging .pain.. - Herpes in the uilla. - The axilla's exuding a moisture.- In·
durated axillary glands.
Grubbing pain in the brachial bones. - Prt!11811re upon the shouldera. -
Wrenching pain in the wriat.-Numboess and torpor of the banda and fingera.-
Painful tightneM and artlritic llti.ffnu• of the jinger-jointl.- Shooting in the
fingen.
Pain in the hip, which caUIIe8 limping, attended with stitches. - TightneM
and contraction in the groins, which prevents the etretehing out of the legs.-
Tightneae in the hollow of the knee and the beck of the foot, with contraction of
the part&- Sorenea~ in the knees.- Spasm in the calves, legs and toea.-
Drawing and stinging in the legs. - The feet and toea easily sprained, when
walking.- Coldneaa of the feet.- Inflammatory ~Welling of the feet and toe1, aa
after freezing, with heat aad smart.- Burning in the toea.
46. Carbo vegetabilis. ff. .,,lcfo~~...:-e.-
Cft•r•••l. - Germ. Hol..olol<.
Duration ofeffect: about 40 daya.
Antidote•: al'Beniosum.acidum, camphora, coft'ea, lacha.
U•ed a• antidotefor: einchona, hydrargyrum, lat-heaia, vinum.
It an~Werl well after: lachesiS, pot111!8e carbonaa, sepia.
~fter it, - · weu:· potas8le carbonas1
Predominant e.ffectl: Painl unth anziety, heat and despairing hopeleameaa, or .
with weakneas after it.- Rheumatic drawing and tearing, with infirmity, espe-
cially in tl~.e limbl, with flatulent diaorden or with obstruction of the breath, when
it affects the chest.- Wrenching pain in the limbs, or pains aa af&er improper
lifting. - Burning pain. in the limbe and bonea.-Throbbing here and there, on
the body.- lnjurie1 ariling from imin'oper lifting and travelling in a carriage.-
Lingering complaint• from the milule of Quinine. - Bad effects of a late wine
debauch. - Influenza. - Cholera. - Tremuloll8J&e88 and jerking of single limbs,
during the day.- Numlme11 of the limb1. - Lamenet18.-The m08t complaints
arising from going out into the open air!
General~orene11 ofevery limb, in the morning, after riling out ofbed.- Great
weakness in the bending joints. - Great weakne11, sometimes to fainting, in the
momin'g in bed, or on 1tarting for a tDalk. - Sudden pro1tration of1trength.-
Generalexhaustion, about noon, with an inclination to lay down the head and
to rest. - Pahy, and totall088 of pulaation in the asiatic cholera. - Liability to
take cold.
·•
Digitized by Coogle
128 Carbo vegetabilis.
Fonnieation over the whole skin of the body. - General itching in the even•
ing: on becoming warm in bed• ...:.. Bumi-Rg on different paru of the skin. -
Scabies.- Minutely granulated eruption.- Nettle-ra.h.- Herpes. -.Reddish-
brown spots in streaks.-lndolent ulcers on the points of the fingers and toes.-
Eaftly bleeding, stinking ulcers, with burning pain and •harp ichorou ptll• -
Chilblain..-Varices.- Indurated· glands.
Great lleepineBI in the day, which~ offwith moving about.- Late sleep-
ing and sleeplessness, occasioned by unea.ineBI in the body. - Noctumal reveries
and startling, from alarming dreams.
ChillineSB and coldness ofthe body. - Fe:ver..ChiiiB, in the evening and at night,
succeeded by flying heat. - Intermittent fever,• with thirst only in the cold stage.
- FrE'quent flushes of beat.- Fever..chills with excessive t~t, IUCCteded by
Mat, witl;l small thirst or thirst only with its commencement. Chills without
thirst, and afterwards heat with thirst. Before the chills: throbbing in the tem-
ples, tearing in the bones of the limbs and the teeth, cold feet, stretching. During ·
chills: 1888itude. During heat: headache, giddiness, red fuce, opacity of sight,
naUsea, pain in the breast, stomach and abdomen, oppression of the chest, pain
in the legs.- After the paroxysm: headache.- Quotidian, tertian, and quartaD
fever, sometimes after misuse of cinchona.- Night"8UJeats.- Sourish morning-
sWeats.
A1Jriety and restleiiBneSB, particularly in the evening. - Dread of apparitions,
particuJarly at night.- Pusillanimity.- Doleful despairing and hopelessness, with
longing for death. - Easily·frightened.- Irritable fretjvJness and violence.
Sudden and periodical weakness of memory. - Slow movement of idea.. - '
Fixed ideas.
Giddiness, from the smallest movement of the head.or after sleep.
Headache from uverheating one's self, or with tremor of the jaws.- Headache
at night. - Spasmodic tightneBB in the brain, or pain..as from a contraction ofthe
scalp. - Heavines~ of the head.- Pressing pai~ in the head, especially over the
eyes in the temples and the occiput.- Drawing pain in ~he head, coming from
the neck , with nausea. - Stitches in the upper- part of the head. - Beating and
pulsation in the head , with congestion of blood and heat therein. - Throbbing
headache in the evening and after meals.
Tearing outwardly in the backpart of the head and the forehead, frequently
proceeding from the limbs.- Painful tenderness of the skin of the head, when
touched (say, from the ~hat).- Liability of the head to take cold.- The hair
falling out.
Pain in the eyes from looking too closely.·- Pain in the muscles of the eyes
when looking on a height.- Itching, biting, heat, pressing and burning in the eyu
and the angles of the eyes.-The eyes closed by suppuration at night.- Bleeding
out ofthe eyes, with strong congestion to the head.-Twitching and trembling of
the eyelids.- Myopia.
Otalgia in the evening.- Heat and redness of the exterior of the-ear towards
evening. - Lack of cerumen. - Offensive smelling discharge from ·the ears. -
Stoppage of the ears. - Tinkling and buzzing in the ears. - Swelling of the
parotides.
•
Digitized by Coogle
Carbo vegetabilis. 129
]telling of the n01e, with tickling and creeping inwardly. -.The point ·of 'he
nose ecurfy.-Frequent long continued epista.ris, especially· at night and morning,
with paleness ofcountenance.
Paleness of the face.- Grayish-yellow colored countenance.- Tearing and
drawing in the facial bones.- Swelling of the.face and 'he cheeks.- Crusta
lactea.- Herpes in the face. - Ab&ce~ before the ears and under the chin.
Swollen lips.- Cracked lips.- Suppurating vesicles on the lips. - Corners of
the mouth ulcerated.-Twitching in the upper-lip.
Drawing rending toothache, or contracting, or gnawing and throbbing pain,
excited by colilnees and warmth, as also from salt food.- Wearisome looseness of
the teeth.- Split, retracted, sore and suppurated gums.- Bleeding gtlflUI IDld
teeth.
Stomacace.- Heat and dryness or collection of water in the 11WUth.- Rough-
ness in the mouth and on the tongue.-Sorene.ss and unwieldiness of the tongue.
Sore throat, as from an internal swelling.- The resophagus as if constricted,
swallowing prevented.- Biting, rasping and bunting an the tUophagm, fauces
and palate.- Pain in the throat as if it were raw, when coughing, swallowing
and blowing 'the nose.- Oesophagitis.- Much phlegm in the throat, which is
eallily hawked up.
Bitter taste. - Saltish taste in the mouth and also of the food. - Anorexia.-
Tedimu loathing of meat, butter and fat. - Longing after salt and sweet things.
-After meals, chiefly after milk, a strong inflation, sourness in the mouth and
sour eructation. - Perspiration while eating. - Much heat from drinking wine.
- After meals. uneasiness and pressure in the stomach. ·
Eructation of wind, or with a bitter taste.- Rising up offat and food just
eaten.- Heart-burn.- Hiccupping after every movement.
Nausea in 'the morning. - Continued nausea. - lVaterbrash, sometimes at
night.- HCMMtemesis.
Pain in the stomach from nursing.- Heaviness·, fulness and tightness in the
stomach. - Contracting or bu"?'ing pressing cramp an the stomach, with much
flatulency and great tenderness in the pit of the stomach. - Grasping and trem-
bling in the stomach.
The hypochonders aching as if bruised, especially in the hepatic region..-
Stitching pain belQw the ribs. -Tightness, pressure and stitches in the hepatic
region.-Stitches in the spleen.-Pressure of the clothes about the hypochonders.
Pains about the navel, when touching.- Heaviness, fulness, distention and
tightness ofthe abdomen, with heat.in the whole body. -Colic from travelling in
a carriage. - Pressure and squeezing in the hypogastrium.- Pain in the hypo-
gastrium from improper lifting.-Pinching in the abdomen, turning from the left
to the right side, with a feeling of infirmity in the thigh.- Production of much
jlatulencv.- Squeezingflatulent colic, sometimes at night. - Rumbling and revo-
lution in the abdomen.- Immoderate passage ofwind, with a fretid stench.
Constipation. - Insufficient stooL - Di.lficult, not hard stools, VJith strong
·urging•, burning in the anus and pains in the hypogastrium, like dolores ad
partum.- Thin, pale, or bright-colored, slimy stools.- Discharge ofslime and
. blood instead of fii!Ces, with shrieking, with children.~ Discharge of blood with
every stooL~After the etoo~ urging belly-ache.- Painful httmorrhoidal tum~ra.
Digitized by Coogle
130 Carbo vegetabilis.
- Flowing hremorrhoids. - Pricking, itching and Imming on the enUI. - Dis-
charge of a vi8cous, acrid ftuid from the anus 8nd reetum, chiefty at night.-
Tape- worm discharged.
Galling and moisture of the perinamm.
· Urinal secretion diminished.- Frequent dutre11ing urging to urinate, by day
and night. - Urinal incontinence at night in bed. - Diabete1. - Red, too dork
urine, as if mixed with blood. - Rasping pain while urinating.
Abundance ofunnatural lasciviotu tlwughu.- Too frequent emiesions. - Too
quick seminal discharge in coition. - Smooth, red, moist spots on the glans penis.
-The prostatic ftuid escaping when at stool.- Itching and moisture near the
scrotum on the,thigh. - Pressure in the testicles.
The memes too early and profuse, with pale blood.- Before the menses, head-
ache, cramps in the abdomen.-During menstruation, pains in the head, abdomen
and small of the hac~, and vomiting. - Itching, burning, galling, aphthre and
swelling on the privities.- Milk-colored, thickly-yellow, greenish and corrosive
Leucorrhrea. - Leucorrhrea before menstruation.- Tendency to abortion, with
varices on the privities.
Stoppage ofthe nose, or watery discharge, withqut catarrh. - The stoppage .
'of the nose auglnented towards evening. - Severe catarrh, with hoarseness and
roughness upon the chest, and creeping and tickling in the nose, with fruitless
irritation to sneeze.
Constant hoar~eness and roughnesS.- Morning or evening hoarteness, aggra-
vated by long continued speaking.- Catarrh and pain in the throat, with measles.
-Tracheitis with asthma. - Phthisis laryngea and trachealu.
Cough~ from irritation and creeping in the throat, or with rawness and painful
smart on the chest. - Spasmodic cough, with choking and vomiting, three or
four times a day, or in the evening, long continued. - Evening,-cough, before
going to sleep and in bed.- When coughing a painful shooting through the head.
-Cough with expectoration of a greenish slime or yellowish pus. - Phthw
pulmonali• purulenta.- Hremoptysis, with burning pain in the chest.
/)ilficult and short respiration, when walking. - Tightness and oppreuion of
the chelt. - Obstructed breath from flatulency. - When drawing breath, a pain-
, ful beating in the head.
PresiUre on the chest. - Fulness, compression and anguish of the chest. -
Hydrothorax. - Rasping pain and soreness in the chest. - A feeling of lassitude
in the chest. ..._ Burning in the region of the heart, with congestion to the chest,.
and etrong palpitation of the heart.- Rheumatic pressing drawing and tearing on
the chest. - Brownish'spots on the chest. - Inflammation ofwomen's bre01t1.
Rheumatic drawing, racking, and shooting in the mt18Cles ofthe throat, neck .
and back.- Itching pimples on the back. - Itching, galling and molstu~ of the
axilla's.
Tearing and burning in the shoulders and shoulder-joints. - Drawing and'
tearing in the fore-aNlUI, wrists and fingers. - Relaxation of the muscles of the
arms and hands, when laughing.- Tightness in the wrist, as if too short.-
Spasmodie contraction of the hand. - Disabling weakne~• of the wrists, and fin-
ger•, when grasping.- Minutely granulated itching eruption on the banda.
Digitized by Coogle
-·-~- -- ·-~~~--~----
Carbo vegetabilis.- Cascarilla.- Castoreum. 131
Legs and feet as if benumbed and insensible. - Diaabling drawing pain in the
leg•.- Burning rending and drawing in the hips. - Tightnees and spasm in the
hip-joints, thighs and knees.- Restleaaneea and heaviness in the legs. - Stiffnet'lll
and torpor of the knees. - Herpes on the knee. - Spdsm in the leg• and 1oles of
thefeet, and at night in the calves. - Sweating feet. - Redne11 and .welling of
the toe1, !'ith pricking pain, as after freezing.
47. Cascarilla. ·
Heat with thirst and longing for warm liquids.
Humming in the eRJ'S. - Heat of the internal ana external ear. •
Pain in the throat, as from an internal swelling, when swallowing.- Rough
· tongue.
Bitter taste in the mouth, also when smoking tobacco, for which there is an
aversion.- Ineffectual efforts to eructate.
Pressure .in the 1tomach, as from fulness. - Pain in the stomach as from a
shook.- Warmth in the stomach, and burning in the scrobiculus cordis.
Tightness and pressure in the hypoehondres. -Movement as from warm water
in the abdomen.- Pressingflatulent colic.
Stool diJ!icult, hard, crumbling and covered with slime, preceded by griping in ·
the bowels. - Bright blood discharged with the stool.
Frequent urinating, sometimes at night. - After urinating, soreness in the
glans.
48. Castoreum.
Reetleea sleep, at night, with anxious tossing about and fearful sta,rting. -
The limbs twitching when falling asleep.- Anxious, horrible dreams.
Prevailing chilline11 and shivering. - Attacks ofshaking chills, with i~ld­
neea in the back.
Great sadneea and complaining sentimentality.
Headache in the vertex and throbbing in the head, as from an ulcer, increased
by touch and e.xternal pressure. - The head full and heavy, as if it would burst.
- Rending in the forehead and temples.
Pressure in the eyes, in the evening, with weak sight. - Burning in the eyer,
when looking far.- Running llnd cementing of the eyes at night.- Stars, clouds
and, ·when looking far, fog before the eyes. - The eyes very jse118ible to sun- or
candle-light.
Rending in the ears. - Ringing, buzzing and rumbling in the ear, pBI!I!Iiqg
away, when the ear is stirred with the finger.
The underlip quivering.
TootAacke while eating, or proluced by cold, lllle1natetl by warmth. - Racking
toothache, produced or inereai'Jed by touch.- Swelling of the ~· at night,
with rending in the temples.
Stench fioom the mouth, obeer'Yed by one'• .al£ - Drawing and twitching in
tbe tongue.
Digitized YGoogle
132 Castoreum.- Causticum.
Burning in the throat, like heart-burn. - Vehement thir•t.- Bitter eructation.•
- Bi~ter.ish-sour rising of the stomach. - Continual loathing and inclination to
vomit.- Vomiting ofa white bitter mucus~
F_ulne•• and heavine•• in the •tomach.- NumbneM of the stomach. - Con-
tracting sensation ftDd pain u from an ulcer in the pit ofthe Btomach.
ExCeMive abdominal pains, with redneM of the face and gaping, relieved by
external warmth and bending the body.- Fulne88 and painful dutention ofthe
abdomen, •ometime• after meal•.
Sudden calla to stool. - Diarrhau~ with chills and gaping, burning in the anu..
and preceded by abdominal pain with rumbling. - Bloody slimy stools.
Frequent urinating, with vehement thirst, in the daytime and at night.-
After urinating loathing and inclination to vomit.
Men8e8 too early, with pain in the head and back, and pale diseased countenance.
- Burning leucorrhaa.
Stoppage of the noee.- Watery, acrid, C?rroding mucus, discharged from
the nose.
Difficult breathing in deep, •low, or quick, short inspirations. - Short breath
when ascending steps.
Pressure on the cheat.- Sen8ation ofheaviness on the cheat, particularly when
breathing deep.
Pains in the back and sacral region, as if they were injured. - Drawing pain
in the nape. I
Rendin-g in the shoulders and upper-arms, at night.- Hot hands with die-
tended cuticular veins.
Lassitude of the lower extremities.
.49..Causticum.
Duration ofeffect: more than 40 days.
Antidotu: cotfea, colocyntbia, spiritus retber.is nitrici, nux.
Used u antidote for: the results of: assa fretida, colocynthia.
It answers weU after: assa f(:etida, and sepia.
After it succeed weU: sepia and stannum.
Exacerbation .is caused by applying after it cotfea tosta, and pho11phorus.
Predominant effect.: Arthritic and rheumatic drawing and rending, especially
in the limbs. - Violent tearing in the joint• and bones, mitigated by warmth and
in the bed.- Contraction ofthe tendons and tightening in the flexores ofthe limbs.
- Contraction of.isolated limbs. - Torpidity and deadneM ofsingle Jl8rt8, and of
the let\ halfof the whole body. - Paralym. - ConvuJsjve motions and jerks. -
Epileptic cramp•.- Chorea ~ncti Viti.- Hysterical complaints. - Ob•tinate in.
ftuenza.- The complainta exacerbated mostly in the evening and in the open air,
that which arise in the open air, vanish in the room.- Coffee alBa teemB to 4/fgt'G-
Hte eoery B!Jmptom. - The primary effects appear !Mer, tbao in other remedietl
ofa long operation.
Digitized by Coogle
Causticum. 133
Intolerable re~tleunu1 in the whole body, in tJae evening, and in Bitting, with
anxiety about the precordia. -Great anguish about the heart.- TotDardl evening,
great weaknel• and lauitude in the whole body.- Dilabling, tremulqu, weakness
with infirmity of the limbe, out of bed. - Great tenderne11 to draught ofair and
coldnu1.
Much itching, especially on the back and the calves of the leg. - Scabie•. -
Miliaria and nettle-rash. - Herpu with itching and oozing. - Phagedamic blad-
ders. - Galling in young children•.- Painful corns. - Warts. - Panaritia. -
Varices, with pain.
Drowsines• in the day, like coma. - Nocturnal •leepiellnet•, occUBioned by
an.riety, l'f!8tlessnese, ardor, and many other complaints, with frequent 1tarting
up. - Startiug on fulling asleep. - Irritable, quarrelaome and an.t:ious dream~. -
Much movement with the arms and legs .in sleep.
Great okillinu•.- Nocturnal chills, succeeded by pain in the back and general
perspiration.- Strong perspiration, by going in the open air.- Night-sweat•.
Melancholy and IOTTOI/Jful reflections, day and night, with whining. - Pen-
siveness. ~ Hypochondriac dejection. - Timidity and fearful, great anxiety.-
Nocturnal fearfulneu. - Distrusting the future. - Hopelessne&ll. - Fretfulness
and anger.- Wrangling and quarrelaome.-Disinclination to labour.
Weakness of memory. - Abstraction ofmind.- Easily misapplying words.
Dizzinus, 88 if the head were pressed together. - Intoxication 88 if instantly
falling.- GiddineBB with weakneBI in tJae head and anxiety.
-~ritic paroxysms in the head, with nausea. - Morning-headache.- Noc-
turnal pain in the head, 88 from an inward abscess. - Dull pressing headache,
particularly in the frontal tubers. - Stitching pain in tJae temples. - Agitating,
pulling and beating in the head.- Congestioa ofblood to the head, with bubbling,
raging and buzzing therein.
Tightne11 and pricking on the head. - Tension ofthe skin of the head.- A
feeling of torpidity on the (backpart ofthe) head.
Pain in the eyes, 88 ifthe eyeball were extended. - Prumre in the eyes, as
from sand, or increased by touch. - Itching, biting and burning in the eyes.-
lttflammatior& oftJae eyes and lidl, also in 1crophulou8 per•or:,.....,...The eyes cemented
together by suppuration. - Running of the eyes. - Difficulty to open the eyes.-
Visible twitching ofthe eyelids. - Frequent, sudden obllcuration of the eyes. -
Dimsightedness, as through gauze or a fog. - Incipient amaurosiB and cataracta.
-Dark webs, tDUlling before the ega. - Sparkling and glittering before the eyes.
-Photophobia.- Inveterate warts in the eyebrows.
Spasmodic otalgia, with an outpressing pain. - Stingiuf in the ears, and a
sensation as if they were 801'e. - A atingiog burning painful tumefaction on the
eztemal ear. - Offe~ive purulent iliscbarge from the ear. - Herpes on the ear-
flap.-Strong reverberation ofsounds in the-ear.- Buuing and humming, rust-
ling, thundering and roaring in the ear• and the head.
Itching on the point and the wings ofthe nose. - Eruption on the point ofthe.
nose. - Inveterate warts on the noae. - ·Blowiug out· blood every morning. -
EpistaxiB.
Yellow-colored countenqce, particularly on the temples, withlivid lips.-Ardor
12
·Digitized b: Coogle
134 • Causticum.
on the cheeks, partieuJarly on the zygomatic bones. -Arthritic pains in the jaW£
-Tightne. and sensation ofswelling under the chin, which hinders the opening
ofthe jaws.- Eruption in the ftJCe. - Paralym ofone fttle oftheface.
Cramp in the lips. - Soreneee ot; and eruption on the lipe and the comers of
the mouth.- Herpes on the under-lip•....:. Tightening drawing pain and inflamma·
tory swelling under the chin. - Trilmu..
Toothache, from the air entering when opening the mouth.- Soreneee,
or drawing and tearing, beating or •hooting in the teeth. - Pairifullooteneu arul
elongation ofthe teeth.- Fistula in the gums.-Tedious suppuration ofthe gums.
- Painful tendemeee and swelling of the gums.
Dryne11 ofthe mouth. - Much phlegm in tlae mouth. - Soreness and burning
in the mouth, on the palate and the point ofthe tongue.- Burning abscess on the
inside of the upper-lip.
Pain in the throa~ by straining, as ifinwardly dilacerated. - Soreness, rough-
neee, sctatching and burning in the throat.- Stinging pain, when swallowing.-
Constant inclination to 8Wallow, with a sensation ofswelling or constriction in the
pharynx. - A sensation ofcold rising up in the throat. - Dryness in the throat.
- Much phlegm in the lNophagtu and behind the palate, with expectoration by
hawking and kecking.
Taste putrid, greasy and viscous. - Strong thirst for cold things and beer.-
Averlion to IUleet things. -At the IM_!ginning ofa meal, instant loss ofappetite and
nausea. - Vitiated stomach. - After eating bread , pressure in the stomach. - .
After every meal pressure in the whole abdomen.
Eructation of mere wind, or as proceeding from indigested food.- Ineffectual
eructation with choking in the resophagus. '
Nausea, during and after meals.- Faintish wambling.-Water-brash.- Vom-
iting ofa sourish water, succeeded by a sour eructation. - Nocturnal vomiting of
coagulated blood.
Pain in the stomach, with heat in the head, inc.reased by every quick move-
. ment, relieved by lying 9own, and shuddering, while the pain increases. - Pres-
sing, gnlsping and raffing in the stomach and scrobiculus cordis.- Cramp in the
stomach.- Stinging pains in the pit ofthe stomach;
• Pressure ofthe cloths about the hypochondres. - Tightneee and atitche• in the
hepatic region.
Abdominal pains, in the moming.-Preasure in the epi- and hypogastrium.-
Painlul distention ofthe abdomen.- Swelling of the navel, painful to the touch.
- Tumid abdomen in children. - Contraetmg pain in the abdomen. -The abo
domen easily taking cold, and from it diarrh<2R or cardialgia.- Obstructed flat-
ulency with bard stools.- Frequent small t-xpulsion ofoffensive wind.
Wearilome conatipation.- Frequent ineffectual efforts to atool, attended with
- pains, anxiety and red countenance. - The stools pass offeasier when standing.
- Stools knotty or ofa thin size. - Viscous and greasy shining, or light-colored
white stools:-- Diarrhrea in the evening and at night.- PasSing ofblood and eut-
ting in the rectum, during the stool..- After et~acuation, an.riety with palpitation
of the heart and bunling on the anus. - Itching on the anua. - Htl:mfWT'hoidal
tumor• ofthe anua, which prevent the stooL - Protrusion o( the piles ofthe ree-
tum. - Fistula in ano.
Digitized by Coogle
Causticum. 135
Frequtnt e.fluru to urinate, with small discharge: ...-. Increased copious urine.
- Urinating at night and incontinence in bed. - Involuntary urinal· di8cluzrge,
day and night, also when coughing, walking and BDeezing. - Acrid, corroding
urine.- The urine becoming turbid, w)um remaining for a while.- Burning,
tt~hile punng urine.- Urethrorrhagia.
·Sexual inclination increased. - Defective erections.- Frequent emissions. -
Pr~tic 11uid et!IC&ping after the stool. - Bloody se~al effusion in coition. -
Pressing and stinging in the testicles.
Memtruation retarded but aggravated, with passing coagulated blood in large
portions.- Difficult beginning to menstruate. - Menstruation too small.- During
menstruation pain in the back, cutting in the bowels and yellow countenance.-
Averaion to copulate, in female•. - Uterine cramps. - Sterility with protracted
menstrUation. - Profme Mucorrhma, with a smell as from menstruation, or pas-
sing at night.
Stoppage of the no1e. - Constant 1toppage in the head. - Running catarrh
with night-cough, rough hoarseness and headache. - Stinking slimy discharged
from the nose. - Sneezing in the morning. '
Rough hoarsene88, in the morning and evening. - Tediom hoar1ene88 with
low .subdued voice.- Aphonia, from w.eakness of the muscles of the larynx.-
A Bensation, as if the larynx were !Ore, without swaUowing.- Phthiril laryngea.
- Much phlegm hawked up, especially in the morning. - Speechlessness, from
paralgm ofthe orgam of8p6Cking.
Cough caused by 'speaking and cold. - Night -cough.- Hacking cottgh from
.ereeping and rawness in the throat.- Dry, hoUow cough, Ulith a semation of
.orene88 in the chest. - Rattling in the chest while coughing. - Pain in the hipe,
while coughing.
Short breath. - Spasmodic tightnei!S of the chest. - Sudden obstruction of
breathing, when speaking or quick walking. - Tightness of the clothes over the
breast.
PreMure on the chest. - Pricking in the chest and the sternum, with deep
breathing and bodily labour. - Palpitation ofthe heart.- Oppre1Bion at the heart,
withpensiveness.- Stitche• about the heart.
Pain in the sacral region, from which every motion is severely felt.- Pressing
pain in the small ofthe back, while sitting. - Painful•ti.ffne88 in the back, par-
ticularly on rising up from the chair. - Drawing and·racking in the shoulder-
blades. - Itching and creeping on the back.- Sti.ffne" and tightne•• in the nape.
- Miliary eruption in the neck between the shoulders. - ·Itching moistening
herpes on the neck.- Strumous swelling ofthe jugular glands.
Pain in the arms, at night. - Dull dratlling and tearing in the af'f118 and hand1.
-Convulsive motions and jerks in the arms. -Itching and eruption on the arms
-Warts on the arms.- Pressure on the shoulders.- Shooting pain, &om the
.finger extending to the elbow.- Sensation offulness ofthe hands, when grasping.
-Drawing pain in the wrists and finger-joints.- Spasmodic wettkness and tremb-
ling ofthe hands. - Deadnes8 and painful torpidity ofthe fingers.- Contraction
tmd induration oflhe sinetDI ofthe finger.. - Itching herpes on the fingers.
The hip-joint aching as ifdislocated.- Bruising pains in the thighs and I~
Digitized by Coogle
136 Causticum.- Chamomilla.
in the morningin bed.- Tightaus in-thejcnnu ofthe legs arulfeet. -Drawing and
tearing in the thighs and legs, knees and feet. - lmecure walking Grul euyfall,.
ing of children. - The skin of the thighs and legs marbled........ Tightness ana
sp88modic pain in the legs and calves. - Cramp in the feet. - The back of the
feet, the ankles, soles and toes smarting, when walking. - Nervous pain in the
soles of the feet.- Contraction in the itVtep, with tightening pain when stepping.
- Cold feet. - Creeping in the soles of the feet. - Phagedenic bladders and
ulceration on the heel. - Panaritium on the big toe:
50. Chamomilla.
Duration ofeffect: 3-4 days.
Antidotes: aconitum, cocculus, coffea, ignatia, nux vomica, pulsatiUa,_
Used os antidote for: alumina, cotrea tosta, colocynthis, ignatia, nux vomica,
pulsatilla, senna, sod~r boras.
After it, answers well: magnesia.
Predominant effects: Rheumatic drawing-tearing pain, toith a disabling ntm~h­
neSI in the ~rts affected, most aggravated at night, frequently with continued
thirst, heat arul redne81 of.one cheek, and hot perspiration on the bead, in the hair.
-Vehement pains, almost imuPf,ortable, leading to detperation, aggravated by
every movement.-Pains mitigated by warm eataplasms.-Beating pains as from
occult suppuration.-Cracking in the joints, particnlarly of the lower extremities.
- Bacl results of coffee-drinking, taking cold arul vexation.- Galtric, biliotu,
hypochondriac, .and hysteric complaints.- Cramps in internal and.·external or-
gans, convullionl and jerks in single parts, particularly with children during
teething, in pregnancy, confinement, and women in general.- Variotu cqmplaints
f ofwomen in general os weU·; os during pregnancy and conJinement, of 'MtDborn
children and inf~nts. - Paroxysms of weaknt'a! and fainting, especially with
hysterical individuals.
Great excitement and excessive semibility of the nervous system. - Great in-
clination to lie down.- A child can only be laid asleep by carrying about.- Great
smceptibility from the open air and especiaUy from wirul. - Consumption and
emaciation ofchildren.
Miliary eruption, particularly in children.- Galling, incident to children.-
The skin difficUlt to heal.- l.ncers, with creeping, biting and burning, or pricking,
and intolerable to the touch.- InflallllD8tory glaftdular swellings.
Sopor and coma vigil, with feverish restlt'a!ness, groaning, startling, short
breath and thirst-Drowsiness, without ability to Sleep.-Nactumalsleeplesmess
with paroxy_BmB ofanxiety. - Gloomy, morose appearance in sleep.- Speaking,
whining, howling, shrieking, startling and tossing about in sleep.- During sleep
the thighs continually laid asunder.
Shuddering in single parts, with or without external coldness. - Flying cold
.!!hivers, in the evening, with burning in the cheeks. - Shivering with internGl
Digitized by Coogle
~~===-====--~------------~
,
Chamomilla. 131
heat. - SeD!Iation ofextemal heat, without sensible wannth.- Ardor with prick-
ing sour 1weat. - Fever, tDith nocturnal exacerbation, inclination to vomit, tearing
in the abdomen, di&rrhma, and painful urination. - Catarrhal, rheumatic, gastric·
<?r biliOul fever. - Puerperal fever. - Fever tDith raging delirium. - Nervous
fleve~ ·
Hypochondriac parozynM of anxiety, as ifthe heart would break. - Re•tln•-
nus with an.rioru groaning t01ring about. - Jt-ritable readineu to 1Deep, with
tDhining and hOtDling, frequently on account ofold or imaginary offences.- Shriek-
ing ofnewborn children. - Restlf'88 longing after this and that, and never satis-
fied.- Aversion to mwric.
Mental abetraction.- Waking dreaming, as if the understanding and com-
prehenSion were impeded by deafness. - Diminished comprehension. - Easily
misapplying words.- Joyle815 hebetude.
Intoxication and reeling, when rising up from the bed, in the morning.- Gid-
dinus in the morning, al\er eating and coffee-drinking. - Paroxysms offainting
giddinell.
Headache during sleep, or in the morning tDken awaking, as ifthe head would
burst. - Heavine" end bruising pain ofthe head. - Arthritic paroxysms in the
head. - lJratDing and tearing in one halfofthe head. - Shooting headache from
a mppre,ed per'J'iration, or after taking cold. - Conge•tion of blood to the head
tDith beati"lg in the tWain.
The eyes smarting as ifsore, chiefly in the comers. -Shooting in the ftyes.-
Burning and sensstion ofheat in the eyes.- Inflammation ofthe eye• and rims of
the lida, with pressing pains, particularly after taking cold, in newborn infantl,
and gouty persons. - The sclerotia euggilated and the eye• bleeding. - Excessive
1 dryneas of the margins ofthe eyelids. - The eyelids cemented together in sleep.
- Spamlodic cloring of the eyelida, with heaviness and drawing down ofthem.
- '1\Ditching ofthe eyes and luu. - DUtortion ofthe eye1. - Glimmering before
the eyes. - The eyes sideward obscurated, when fixed upon any thing white.
Spam!odic otalgia, with •hooting and tearing.- Inflammatory I!DeUing ofthe
parotil, attended with pain in the throat. - Tinkling in the ea~ - musory hear-
ing, at night, as if hearing the voice of absent persons.
The nose I!Klre and ulcerated.- Ezc6edingly •cnrible 1111tll.
Pale countenance, with cold cheeks and hot forehead. - Redne, ofone cheek
and palene," ofthe other.- S!Dellingofonehalfoftheface.- Red, hotcountenance.
-Eryripelal in the face, after toothache.- Bloatedness and swelling oftheface
and a part of the head, with kardneu, blueness and pulsation in the ch6ek.-Swel-
ling of the temples with pain on ~aching.- Red rash on the cheeks. - Convul-
rionl, and twitching ofthe facial mmclel. ·
The lipe peeling offand cracked.- The margins ofthe lips scurfy.- Twitch-
ing in the lip•. - Spasm in the jaws with compresrion ofthe teeth.
Toothache after taking cold, with drawing jerka in the jaws.- Toothache after
eating and drinking, especially after warm drinking,, and coffee. - Toothache ·and
tedious teething ofchildren, with continual biting and putting their fingers in the
mouth.- Nocturnal intolerable toothache, with IIDOUen cl&eekl, increased by drink-
ing cold liquids, and intolerable in the warm bed.- Swelling ofthe gums.
Digitized by Coogle
138 Chamomilla.
J)ryMu in the 1MIIth, or llliliva 11.owing out from it.- Froth from the f1111Uth.
-Putrid smell of the mouth, after dinner.- Red, cracked tongue.- Vesiclee
upon and nnder the tongue, with pricking pain.- Convullive motion~ of the
tongue.
Pain in the throat, when swallowing, 88 from a plug in the resophagus.-
Impeded swallowing in lying, and froJD solid food.- Burning heat in the at10phagm,
extending to the mouth and stomach. - Angina, with children and from taking
cold, with deep redness ofthe fuuces and oosophagus.- Snoring noise in the throat.
Tate bitter or putrid.-Sour taste of bread.-No longing after food and drink,
with shuddering aversion when seeing victuals.- Aversion to coffee, or violent
longing after it.- After eating, heat in the fuce, and fulness and distention of the
stomach and abdomen, with inclination to vomit. ·
Eructation, with an increase of pain in the stomach and bowels.
Inclination to vomit, after eating, particularly in the morning, or, with suffo-
cating fits qfter drinking coffee. - Fainting nausea and flabbiness. - Vomiting
~~ .
Cramp in the stomach. - Pressing pain in the pit of the stomach, 88 from a
stone, after every meal, with obstructed breathing, and only mitigated by bending
the body and rest.
Anxiety, fulness and tightness in the hypochonders and the pit ofthe stomach.
- Liver grown in children. (Verfangen der Kinder.)- Diaphragmatitis.-
Hepatitis.
Intolerable pain in the bowels, in the morning, at sunrise.- Distended, ex-
tremely painful abdoll)en, intolerable to the touch.- Cutting. burning·.in the epi-
gastrium, from the stomach to the navel, with slJ.ort breathing and pale counte-
nance. - Lancinating beUy-ache. - Cutting in the belly after taking cold. -
Enteritis.- Abdominal cramps.- Pressure towards the inguinal ring.-Inguinal
hernia.- Flatulent colic, with distended belly, also with children.
Diarrhrea, mostly aqueous, porraceous and feculent-slimy, like curdled eggs.-
Acrid, corroding and hot diarrhrea, with a putrid stench. - Nocturnal diarrhrea,
with a white slimy discharge and colic-like belly-ache.- Diarrhrea with teething
children.- Undigested stools.
Distressing efforts to urinate.- Hot yellow urine.
Discharge of blood in the intervals. - Hremorrhagia after delivery. - Milk-
fever.- Metrorrhagia, discharging a dark coagulated blood by fits, with labour-
pangs, urging from the smaU ofthe back towards the abdomen and the genital6.-
Painful after-pangs.- Puerperal fever.- Metritis.- Yellow, biting leucorrhc:ea.
Catarrh.and hoarseness, with viscous slime in the trachea,. particularly with
'children, and after taking cold.- Bronchitis.- Croup.
Cough from a continual tickling under the sternum. - Qnigh, in the 1710t'fting
aRd evening, with tickling in tke throqt;pif, and asthma in the ~best, excited par-
ticularly by speaking.- Cough from taking cold in winter, with children.- Dry
cough, increased at. night, and continued ·in sleep.-Cough after the fretful crying
of children.- Rough dry cough, after the measles.- Fits of suffocating congh,
particularly after midnight. -Loose cough.- Cough with a "Yiscous bitter expec·
toration in the morning.
Digitized by Coogle
Chamomilla.- Chelidonium. 139
Whiltling, wheezing and moriftg, whe11. breathing. -Suffocating obstruction
of the breath in the region of the throat·pit, with stinging irritation to cough.
Pricking in the chest, 88 fro~ needles. - Burning in the ckut, with dullness
and dizziness in the head. - &reR.Us of the nipples. - Indurated glands of the
breMt.- Retirement of the milk oflying in women, with flabbiness of the bre88ts.
Nocturnal pains ~ the small of the back. - Rhewnatic drawing pains in the
back, extending to the IIBCral region and the thighs, at night, aggravated by every
motion.- Bending backward. ofthe back, with stiffstretching of the body. - lrt-
ftammatory BtDeUing of the jugular glands. '
Numbnus oftlte IJI"7M and stijj'nes•, when grasping.- Cornndsions ofthe arms.
- Bloated hands. - Clinching ofthe thumbs.-T.witching of the fingers.
Arthritil ilchiatica.- Drawing rending in the legs, down to the soles of the
feet, the worst at night or in sitting.- Tension of the mU8Cles of the thighs and
legs.- Disabling tearing in the feet, at night.- Cramp in the calves ofthe leg,
especially at night.
5t. Chelidonium.
Cla~lidolti•• ••i••·- Grt!al ctlaaditae.- Germ. Sclalllratd.
Predominant effects: Disabling drawing and infirmity in single parts.- Tor-
por and deadneM ofsingle limbs.-Pricking on different places, 88 ifwith needles•
..!.... Sp88modic pains. - Great weariness and sluggishness, in the morning,, when
awaking.- Aversion to motion, which is very grating.- Une88inese, without
distinct pains or disorders.
DrOtDBineBB and inclination· to lie down, with incapability to sleep. - Late
falling 88leep.- Easily startled on falling 88leep, .succeeded by headache.- Fre-
quent sudden awaking, with profuse perspiration, which continues when awake.
Prevailing chillineBB, shuddering and frigidity.
Dejection.-Anxious solicitude about the present and the future.
Vertigo, with unconscio1.181lese and shuddering on the upper-part of the body.
Dull headache, with pulsation in the temples.- Sensation of coldness on the
occiput, rising up from the neck.- Creeping on the scalp.
Pain above the eyes, which depre88e8 the lids. - The eyu cemented bg suppu-
ration, and opaque, in the morning.- Dazzling spots before the eyes, which run
when looking closely. ·
Stinging in the ears.- Sensation 88 if wind were passing out of the ~ra. -
.Thundering in the ears.
Itching on the nose.- Quivering in the point of the noee.
RedneM of the fuce, without h-.- ItcJaing tigl&bau• GAd draeireg in the
zygomatic bor&e.
The lower teeth aching when touched, 'With looeeneae.
DryneM in the mouth, wi'h thirst.- Collection of water in the mouth.
Pain in the throat, 88 ifehoking from a large bit.- Tightnus in the region of
the larynx,· with constriction ttltl&e lflaarynz, and ddlicult swallowing. - Burning
and rawne1111 in the throat.
Digitized by Google
140 Chelidonium.- Chenopodium.
Taste insipid, or bitter.- Di8order1 from the tue ofmilk. - Eructation, with
the t&ste ofwhat bas been eaten.- Hiooupping.
Stomach-ache, gnawing and grubbing, duappearing after eating.-Contracting
cramp in the stomach.- Spasmodic pain and throbbing in1the pit of the sto1118.Ch,
with anxious breathing.- Sensation of coldnee~~ and burning in the 1tomach. -
Stitches in the region of the stomach and scrobiculus cordi&
Abdominal pain with apasmodic retraction of the ruroel, and nausea. -Con-
tinual cutting in the bowell, qfter meall. -Jerking cutting in the abdomen, with
looee stoolS.- Dull stinging under the navel, which makes bending necel!l!ftJ'Y.
SIIPOl hard and knotty, with pressing.- Nocturnal •limy diarrhfBfJ.
tJrine pale, frequent and copious, or too small.
Mentes too profuse, or retarded.
Stoppage in the head and nose.- Difficult bmlthing all(} asthmatic affection.
Cough with deafness.- Pressure in the chest when inspiring.
Tearing pre18ing pain in ihe back, as if the lumbar vertebne were dislocating,
only when bending forward and backward.
Lamenes1 of the brachial muscle•, with difficult painful motion:- Distended
veins on the hands.- Deadne88 of the finger•, with yellowness, coldness, and
blue nails.
Lamene11 in the thigh and knee, when stepping out.- Dissbling drawing fmm
the hip down to the toes. - Spasm and contraction of the soles of the feet. -
Numbne88 and deadne11 ofthe toe1.
52. Chenopodium.
Cllrroopodi- olid••·- TAr llidi"' oraclt. - Germ. Bliderod• Mrldr.
Duration ofeffect: about 4 days.
Unsteadiness of the symptoms; sometimes horrible pains in the head, som~
times violent shooting through the abdomen and spina.-The linibs and especially
the small ofthe back as ifparalysed.-.Drawing through the whole body.
Excessive feebleness and lassitude.-Sensation of heaviness in the whole body.
-Lassitude with a sensation as if beaten, particularly in the morning and even-
ing. - A sensation, as if all vigour were gone, and as if walking were entirely
impossible.-General excitement.
Sleeplessness. -The whole night restless and tossing about in bed; sleeping
about two hours at most.- Drawing through the whole back with single jerks, at
~ht.- Unfrequent dreams, and ifany, anxious, with frightfulappearsnces.
Frequent excessive heat, particularly afternoon.-Strong shivering and frigid-·
ity in the whole body.- Pulse somewhat accelerated, tense, small, powerl-.-
Sometimes excessive agitation of the blood.-The temperature of the body mostly
moderate, seldom increased. - The skin mostly dry and somewhat tightened;
sometimes only a gentle perspiration of the parts, which are covered.
Great mental disturbance.-Excessive irritation or delicacy of mind.-Fright-
fulness with attacks of anxiety, particularly after meals. - Anxious alarming
Digitized by Coogle
.
Chenopodium. 141
re8eeti0118.- Fear ofdeS~.- Peevish, capriciOWI humor.-Vexation, fnoquently
succeeded by whining.- Sadnees and continual complaining about sicknees, in
the evening. - Inclinatioa to weep and disturbing -absurd ideaa, with exceesive
nootumal restleesnea.
Aversion to cloee thinking and labour. - Incoherent thinking. - Memory and
faculty of thinking diminiahed (Iiller 24 houn).-Mental excitement and &equently
melancholy, succeeded by exhau.etion and drowsiness.
Giddiness and reeling, when looking at a height.-Giddiness and vertigo when
ueending steps.- Giddiness, with evanescence of thoughts, and darkening be-
f<!re the eyes, an hour and a half after dinner. - Giddiaees, with filintneee after
exercise in too open air. - Giddineee, with oppreasion of tbe chest, in the mor·
ning, on rising up.- Giddiness, with a difficulty of recolleet.iun, and with a sen-
sation as if the head were empty or hollow, 110metimes accompanied with nausea,
inclination to vomit, illW!iona ofsenses, and vanishing ofsight and hearing.
Exeeesive wealmees of the head. - Sensation.of heaviness in the whole head,
ns after taking cold.-A drawing shooting in the .vertex.- In the Sinciput, a llell•
eation as if brui8ed.-The temporal bones squeezed inward or compre.ed, mostly
in the evening. - Dull pressure in the occiput. - Sudden ardent heat, from the
vertex towards the left temporal bone. -On a distinctly circUDII!ICribed spot of the
vertex, an intolerable pain, with exctWI8ive throbbing in the brain, at cllif'erent
times, particularly towards evening.- In the left frontal tuber, a pricking, 11010~
times shooting outward between the frontal tuben and the eyebrows. - Gnawing
in the right frontal tuber, after meals. -Drawing pain in the whole forehead,
with dizziness, produced by motion, towards evening.
Pricking in the acalp, succeeded by itching and crawling.-Contraetion of the
skin of &he head, on the right temple, as &om sudden inJluence ofcold; in the
morning on rising up.
The eyes cloudy, without their natural lustre.- Frequently a burning drawing
pain in the right eyeball, 110metimes a pricking in it, disappearing by motion.-
Presaure and tightneaa in the eyes, in the evening.-A sensation as if the muscles
of the eyes were paleied, after exertion. - Photophobia. - The pupil very sen-
sible, &equently contracted, in the aftemoon.-·Continual dryness of the eyes.-
Itehing and biting in the eyeliile, chiefly outside of the eyes, after rubbing, going
over into buming.-Spumodic drawing in the right upper eyelid, always towards
evening.
Freq~t tingling or buzzing in the ears. - Sometimes pressing in the e&l'll.-
Frequent drawing in the ears, after exercise in the open air.- Burning in the ex-
teri~r of the ear, or pricking.- Itching in the right ear-flap. - Sensation ofdry-
ness in the ears. - The sense of hearing changeable, sometimes very acute, at
other times difficult hearing; chiefly with damp weather, or towards evening.
The noee altemately burning hot and cold. -Frequent tickling on the point
of the nose.- SOmetimes a ameli before the nose, as &om old cheese.
The lipe pale-red and dry. -Sometimea ftushes of beat in the under-lip.-
Trembling of the under-lip, tOwards evening.
Drawing pain in all the teeth of the left'side.- Racking and shooting in the
middle molar-teeth ofthe lower jaw, most violent.after meals, abating in the open
Digitized by Coogle
142 Chenopodium.
air. -Drawing and tightness in the right Side of the lower jaw. -Sensation o(
heat on the gums and the tongue, returning at different times.
The tongue moist and whitisb, with a continual sensation of drynea.- Fre-
quent scratching on the tongue.- Pricking in the point of the tongue, towards
evening.
Constringent pressure in the pharynx. -Violent 11usbN of beat in the reao-.
pbagus, when lying down.- Frequently a tightening pain on the right Bide ofthe
pbarynx.-Clucking near the right tonsil, and frequently an unpleasant p~,
when swallowing.
Insipid and viscous taste.- No food relishes.- Anorexia.- Loathing ofWlll'lll
f~- Nausea, and inclination to vomit, but seldom a real vomiUng.- Avendon
to, water-drinking.-Longing for coffee and tea.-Sometimes bulimia, and longing
for uncommon things.
lnsipi4 and sour eructation after meals;- Water-brash, in the moming.-
Collection of water in the mouth.- Heart~bum.- Offensive smell ofthe mouth.
-Frequent empty eructation·, and pressure in the stomach, with epasmodic
grasping in the throat.
Indigestion.- Frequent regurgitation of food, with pret!llure 'in the p~ of th~
s~mach.- Griping and vehement conetriction in the stomach, the pains compel-
ling to lie down; commonly 4 hours after meals.-Cutting in the right Bide of'the
abdomen, near the navel.- Spasmodic preslling at night.
In the right hypochondrium a tighteniRg jamming, most vehement towards
evening. - Throbbing in the depth of the liver,· with a sensation of fulness. -
Sometimes a spasmodic grasping about the navel, succeeded by compression.-
The secretion ofgall exceedingly..cestnuned.
The hypogastrium as ifstuffed up, so that breathing is made difficult.- Sen-
88tion of heaviness in the whole hypogastrium.- Pressing exteneion in the right
Bide. - TightneBB about the naYel. - Frequent rumbling in the hypogastrium,
with voiding of wind. - Frequent cutting obliquely through the abdomen and
agitation, in the evening. - Sudden sensation of heat in the left side ofthe ab-
domen, extending to the left thigh, at night.- A dilacerating pain in the hypoga-
strium about 4 inches below the ntlvel, the 2d day, at night.- The hypogastrium
very painful to the touch , but painleBB when strongly pressed upon, in the foie-
noon.- The abdomen contracted and collapsed with frequent unpleuan.t pricking.
Urging in the rectum, with shooting in the small ofthe back. - Strong pres-
sure in the rectum extending to the bladder, sometimes burning on the orifice of
the rectum, succeeded by a mild shivering running (!Ver the whole body.- Cos-
tiveneBB. - Spariug stool; always with·vehement pressure.- Every·third day a
very bard, somewhat colored, whitish stool.- After evacuation, 'mostly stinging
and drawing in the rectum. - Sensation of soreneBB and itching about the anUB.
Sometimes a mild burning in the root ofthe penis. - Urine white, eometimea
yellowish, and without any sediment.
Flabby genitals (penis and .scrotum).- Defective erections.- Disinclination to
coition.- Frequently creeping and itching, sometimes biting in the orifice of the
penis. - Sometimes a moderate drawing through the scrotum, from exercile.
Copious cUiicharge of mucus from the vagina. - Leucorrhrea (the 2d day). -
Cutting and stretching in the vagina towards the uterus.- Stinging before men•
Digitized by Coogle
Chenopodium. .143
llt!'llation.- The menses appear 3 day• later, with, a small di8obarge of blood, and
much white mucus. - During the menstrual diseharge, a frequent biting on the
pudenda and ardor urine.
Tedious drynea~ in the nose and larynx. - Catarrh of the nose, with a &mall
discharge of a thin watery slime. - Tickling in the right nostril. - Frequent
sn~, in the afternoon and evening. - Sensation of obstruction of the nose,
when falling asleep.- Ulcerous pain in the left nostril, in the morning of the third
day•.
Dryllesa in the larynx, with irritation to cough. - Dry cough, with an on-
frequent expectoration of phlegm. - Spasmodic drawing al).d constriction in the
larynx, with suffocating fits, moetly ai night, which prevent.!! lying down; the
symptoms disappear by \rising and exercise. - Scratching in the larynx and the
trachea, ·after meals.
The voice cleal' and powerful, seldom rough and hoarse. - Speech l!Ometimes
difficult and weak, towards evening. ·
Attacks ofshort breathing. - Sensation ofsoreness in the bronchia. - Some-
times a ltrong oppJ'tll!l!ion of the chest, accompanied with an anxious, frequently
wheezing reepiration.
Burning in the chest,-on different place.e, particularly when lying.- Drawing
and pressing in the right Bide of the cbest towards the spine, particularly when
walking. - Sudden stitches through the chest, terminating in the left axilla. -
A tediou.equeezing in the right side of the chest, backward. - Pressing outward
below the sternum, in the afternoon.- Shooting tearing -in the centre of the
sternum, extending to the left clavicula, in the evening.- Sensation ofheaviness
in the chest, sometimes 88 if all were ulcerous and suppurated, with a &hort
anxious respiration, in the morning.- The breast aching88 if bruised, with a fre-
quent external ardor, or a vehement itching on it. '
, Frequeat palpitation of the heart. - The pulsation of the heart weak, often
suppressed and small. - Sometimes a sensation 118 if the heart would burst. -
Strong agitation of the blood at night. - Frequently an unpleasant sensation of
warmth arises from the chest to the face, sometimes with burning. - Pressure in
the heart, after the least motion.- Tremour of the heart, regularly towards
evening, when lying down.
In the muscles of the neck, drawing and pricking, particularly on the right
Bide, in the morning. - Tightness in the throat and the larynx, after motion.-
Ardor between the shoulders and in the back, particularly in the afternoon. - A
drawing tearing in the right shoulder-blade, 88 from a cold. -Itching on both
shoulders, at night, or when going to bed. - Sensation of coldnees and pinching
in the shoulders in the evening (of the 2d day).
Pl't188llre, sometimes shooting in the right axillft, with a sensation 88 if the
glancle were swollen.
Tearing or shooting in the right upper-arm, in the evening and at night, some-
times burning hE'Bt in it.-Heaviness ofthe arm, with a seDI!Btion 88 ifthe upper-
part were maimed. - Formication to-warda the shoulder. - Rheumatic pains in
t1ae rigbt .Uulder-joint, and alternating stitches, which disappear bt moving in
&he open air.- In t.he left upper-arm a cutting squeesing and tearing tOwards the
o;g;i;zed by Coogle
144 ·Chenopodium.- Chiococca.
fore-arm, particularly at night. .,- Drawing tightne. on the estenml Bide ofthe
arm, particularly in the fteshy parts, by which the motion is impeded; the paiJi
being diminished by motion. - The left arm benumbed, chiefly in the forenoon,
when at rest. - Stinging or boring in the elbow, when lying in bed. - In both
the fore-arms pricking and tightness, or·drawing into the bonea of the hand.-
The right fore-arm benumbed; in the morning. .. .
Ardor in the palma of the hands. - Sudden atitehes in the back ofthe left
hand. - A stinging tearing in thl! left thumb, with eensation of swelling, in the
evening. - Stiffness of the fingers. - Insensibility of the right fo~.afU\.~IIJe.o
finger, in their points.- The left hand as ifmaimed and eold to the touch. - A'
drawing tightening pain in the small finger of the left hand.- An outward teariDg
pain in the left thumb, sometimes a sensation, as ifa red-hot wire were put around
it; in the morning.
In the thighs, in the region of the hi~jointa, a tearing boring, by which walk-
ing i.e almost impossible, abating after Walking.- Spasmodic drawing in the thighs,
proceeding from the small ol the back, and particularly extending.~ t~e fleshy
parts. - Frequent tingling and benumbednesa in the left thigh. - Heaviness in
the thighs,.sometimes a pain as from suppuration, with frequent internal cluck-
ing and throbbing.- A sensation in the right thigh towards the loins, as if the
ftesh were loosened from the bones. - Burning on the inside of the thighs.
Shooting in the legs, in the evening, sometimes alternating with spasm in the
calves of the legs.- Tightness; and frequently sudden atitebea in the bend ofthe·
left knee, with the senaation, 88 if the tendons were too abort or io11exible.-
Drawing pain and burning on the inside of the right leg, in the afternoon. - StUJ:.
ness, benumbedneas, and disability in the legs.
Vehement tearing pains in the sole of the right foot.- Pricking in the right
outer ankle, particularly in the afternoon. - Painful tightness in both the feet,
when stepping, gradually decreasing by walking.- Boring pain in the left inner
ankle, frequently alternating with tearing, at night. - Sometimes burning heat in
the soles of the feet. - Tightness in the small toe of the left foot.- Boring teariDg
and burning in the metatarsal bone of the middle toe of the left foot, (in the after-
noon while lying)- which pain causes limping when walking.
53. Chiococca.
Duration ofeffect: about 8 days.
----
The moat symptoms are exacerbated towards evening, when at rest; oaly a
few by motion.
General lassitude and pain 88 if beaten, particularly in the amall of the back
and the lower extremities. - Excessive relaxation of strength, toward& evening.
-Inability to work, particularly ai\er meal&- Selllation ofmgid.i&y in tbe limbs.
- Great tendemees from cold, and very liable to take cold.
An eruption like purpura miliaria on the breast aod upper4l1D. - Drot-r of
the akin, with abort breath, coughing with a moclemte expectorat.ion, an4:dyiRiry;
after IICBI'latina. (Anuarca esaothemat.iea.)
Digitized by Gqogle
CbiOC9CCa. 145
Frequent gaping and sleepineea, }MU1icUlarly towards eveniDg.-Reetless sleep,
from anxious dreams.-ExceMive reetleaane1111 and continual t088iDg abQut in bed.
-Sometimes sudden startling; when .falling uleep, starts and jerb, as from
electricity, accompaniecl by great anxiety. - ,Coma vigil. - Talking·in sleep. -
Aller sleep, the head dizzy and muddled, with staggering when rising. .
Frequent chills and cold shivering, particulal:ly along the back. - Hot, tense
&kin, almost parchment-like and.dry.- Fever towards evening, with ~le
thirst.- Frequent dush~ of heat in the face.- Copious morning-sweat.-Stiong
perspiration ofthe feet.-General perspiration, aecompanied with copious urination.
Inse,nsibility and,iwlliference.- Dejectednees, 119rrowfuln~ particularly after-
nooQS. - Caprice. - .Peevish, morose h~ur, sometimes whining from weak-
ness.- Frequently a sensation, as iftlie head were hollow, connected with a con-
tinual lamentation and whimpering, chiedy after exercise.
A high.degree ofexhaustion.- Slu1gishnes& - ~disposition to refteetion. -
Diminished capacity. - Stupidity. - A sensation as if consciousness totally dis-
appeared; when exercising•
.Gid4iness, when sitting.- Giddiness, with nausea and indination to vomit,
when stoopiug. - Giddinellll and a sensation of emptiness in the occiput, with
fiUnting .fits, towards evening, when lying.- Vertigo and staggering, when rising.
Dizzine1111 in the head..- Pressing throbbing pains in the occiput - Stinging
drawing a.
JJd a ~~ensation ofstitfuess towards the nee~ - Moping hl)lldache and
sensation ofheavinees, with congestion of blood to the forehead.- Drawing pres-
sing pain in the interior of the head•.,... Slight stitches shooting inward in the left
temporal bone, when exercising•.,.- Sensation of fulness IPld intoxication in the
evening. - Spasmodic drawing and jerking or squeezing pinching in the occiput.
- Frequent.gnuiping in the head, when sitting.- Whirling, humming, and buz-
zing, alterDI&ting with a dull pressure in the centre of the brain, outward.- When
walking in the open air, heaviness in the :whole head, as if it were filled with lead,
with, a continual pressing' asunder.- Burning heat in the temples.- A stinging
squeezing in the centre. of the os bregmatis. - Tearing butning pain in the left
frontal tuber. - Pressing outward in the right side of the forehead, in the after-
noon.
Perspiration on the forehead. - Itching and biting on the scalp, sometimes
burning, senaation of c~:rYness and sorene1111 to the touch. ·
The eyes glistering and.shunning light. - The lids cemented with eye-gum in
the internal canthi.- Copiously running tears after opening the 4!Yes in the morn•
ing. - Dim eyes, of a watery appearance, half closed. - Pupils very dilated,
staring, almost immoveable. - The lids red and swollen. - Vehement itching in
· &be internal canthus of the right eye_. - Burning and tightening pressure in. the
eyeballs, when exercising in the open air.- Chucking and quive~g in the eyes,
· when stooping. - 'rhe sight very dim. - Dark points, like dies before the eyes.
....; 'DiplOpill, in the afternoon. - Glistering and sparkling before the eyes, with
IJllbeequent darkening, when rising.-The eyes dazzled and the lids spasmodieaUy
mov8d. when looking at a ·height, sometimes connected with vertigo.
A dra'Wing pressing pain in the socltet of the right eye. - Sometimes a vehe-
ment tearing or squeezing towards the brain; with giddine1111 and nausea, whea
13
Digitized by Coogle
146 , Chiococca.
stooping. - Jhoawmg tearing and a eensation, as ifaD were iooving around, when
· llitting up in bed.- Dull pret!IBing with a aensation ofheavineaa, when lying still.
- Vehemetlt lraDsient stitches in tbe depth ofthe left eye, ~ ifit would be pierced
out, soon ebmgin~ into pricking, the third day in the eYening. - Small white
painless nodes and a few red pustules under the right eyebrow, vehemendy burn-
ing when touched. - Painful tightneBB, with a ~tion ot'sweDin~ below both
the lower eyelid&
Buzzing in the ea1'8, or I'Uibing and crackling.- Compmlflion in the interior
ofthe ear, towards evening.- Hissing and buzzing in the ears, tightness in the
right external ear, with exee.ive tenderness to the touch, after exercise in the
open air. - Inward shooting pains in the )eft auditory passage, and a squeezing
Ji8in in the interior with tightne88 towardS the eavity ofthe mouth, exacerbated
from m88ticating' after meals. - Discharge of a 6uid cerumen from the )eft ear
(the third day).- Burning heat in the'ear-6aps, sometimes an alternating draw-
ing, when sitting.- Spasm in the ea1'8, after 48 hoa1'8, with exeeiJSive tenderne88
to cool air.
Frequent itching in the p()int of the nose.
Shining, whitish-red countenance. - The filee bloated, partieularJy above
the upper -lip, with a pretllling tightness in the right cheek towarda the temporal
bone. - Stinging drawing in the right zygomatic bone. - A dry pustUlous erup-
tion on the chin, with a continual pricking, after rubbing, ·biting. - Sometimes a
squeezing tightnet!8 in the fileial muselea of the right side, near the eye.
The lips pale and swoUen, partieularly the upper one. - Drawing and paiBM
tightne88 in the lips, chie6y towards evening.- The· lips peeling off, with prick-
ing and creeping.- Ulcerated mnarting eornera'ef'the mouth.
Drawing pain in the upper incisora, extending to the molarea of the right side.
-Squeezing pressing pain in two of the lower inciso1'8, alternately with shooting.
- Racking and rooting in the lower molarea of the left side, particularly when
lying. - Dull pl"e88ing, sometimes an outward forcing pain in the baekpart ofthe
left upper-maxilla, with a sensation as if the teeth were loMe and vacillating; at
night in bed. - The gums of the right side blu~-red, swollen and JleinfuUy
tight. - Sensation 88 if the edge of the gums of the fore-teeth were 8bre, some'-
times with burning heat.
The tongue dirty-white furred, moist and slimy.- Frequent burning in the
point of the tongue.- Pricking in the root ofthe tongue.-Seni!Mion ofswellibg,
scratching in the uvula and the soft palate. - Continual pressing in the pharynx,
with alternating drawing pain.- Sensation ofheat in the throat.-Difficult ewal•
lowing.
TMte insipid, offensive, putrid. - Bitterish taste with itching after meals. -
Anorexia. - Loathing and aversion to food and tobacco smoking. - Sometimes
bulimy without appetite. - Frequent bitterish eructation, accompanied with a
strong pressure in the pit of the stomach. - Eructation. - Collection of water or
saliva in the mouth. - Frequent spitting.
Flabbine88 in the pit of the stomach. - Hellrt-bum. - Inelination to vomit. -
Vomiting with a vehement preasure in the depth of the right hypochondrium. -
Vomiting offuod, one Jiour after meals.- Nausea and 'YO!nituritionwithout vemit-
ing, towards evening when sitting. - Nausea and inclination to vo~t with ver-
Digitized b; Coogle
Chiococca. U1
tigo and Iaesitqde, at night, when lying.- After a small q1J&ntUy ofbroth, ~e~UJ~to
tion offllln1!88 and distention of the abdomen.- AJ\er vomiting, at.rong penpira-
tion. - l1¥18tiabJe tbirat, especially in tbe afternoon. '
Vehement pr1!88ure in the stomach, in the morning, fasting. - Flabbineu in
the stomach, about one hour after meals. -Sometimes a wringing seDBation,
preeeure and tightne&B or pinching and cutting in the bottom of the lltGmach tow•
arda the right Bide, when lying.- Sensation ofbeavinea~ and fulneae when walk~..
ing. - A ecraping sensation in the pylorue. ·
Distention and painful tightneu in the right hypochondrium, particularly after
eating or drinking. - Outward preeeing, or dull preeeure and throbbing in the
depth of the liver. - Tightne&B or spasmodic grasping, when rising. - Vehement
transitory burning with single stitA:lhes in the backpart of the liver. - Slight Jll"e&"
sure and drawing, after motion.
In the .region of the left kidney, near the spine, an intolerable squeezing and
pre&Bure, alternately with pricking, chiefly at rest, alleviated by motion. - Drip-
ping urine with vehement bUI'Ding in the urethra.- At night, deep piercing in
the left kidney. ·
The abdomen exceeeively distended. - Painful drawing about the naveL -
Wringipg in the umbilical region, with frequent rumbling and grumbling in the '
abdomen, with obstructed flatulency.- A contiaual urging in the abdomen M if
to stool, disappearing after expulsion of wind.- Frequent discharge of wind,
which relieves.
Tearing squeezing paine in the )eft Bide of the abdomen near the navel, eome-
t.imee alternatiDg with stinging in the right aide, in the afternoon.- Vehement
grubbing with minute stitches transversely through the abdomen, below the navel
towards the Joins. - Inability to lie on the Bide, towards evening. - Great ten·
derne&B of the exterior of the abdomen, painfully increased by pre88UI'e.- T)1np-
anoue distention of the abdomen,. with a painful pre111ure towards the breast, u if
all were too tight.- Diminished circumference .of the. abdomen, painJeeenee1,
frequently a sell8ation of numbne88.- Sometimes a sensation ofinternal110reDNJ.
Cutting or pinching belly-ache, before diecharge of wind or fieces, particularly
when lying.- Painful extension in the bowels with a seDBation as if they would
be dilacerated. aometimes vehement stitA:lhea, during evacuation. - Frequent W..
charge of very offensive wind, preceded by rumbling in the abdomen. - Drawing
pains in the region of the bladder, pre&Bure and constriction ofit, u iffrom cramp,
in the evening. - Tightening racking pains in the rectum towards the oe llacl'WD.
- Frequent diecharge ofa dark-colored stool with loud diecharge ofwind.- Con·
tinual urging and pinching in the depth of the abdomen. - Urging to stool. -
Tenesmus, and after long and strong pres.!ling only a &Plall evac~ ofhard
f~eCe&. - Excessive sensation of 50renees in the rectum, and vehement burning
around the anus, which furbida sitting quietly. - After evacuation, rendiug iD the
small of the back. ..... Papeacent stools with much slime, 11000mpanied by frettiog
and gnawing in the anus. - Thin liquid stools, with urging and aqueeziDg iD the
rectum, aucceeded by costiveness. - Evacuation, aomeUme& accompuied by cold
shivering over the abdomen and back.
Copious perspiration and itc~ in the perineum. - ltA:lhinJ bUI'DiDJ ia. the
perineum, connected with headache, towards evening•
..
Digitized by Coogle
148 Chiococca.
Frequent urging to urinate. - Strangury, with vehement burning in the root
of the penis. - A emaD diecharge ofslime after an ineftectual effort to urinate. -
A continual p~ in the neck of the bladder, with a eenaation, as ifan were
constricted. - By stooping and cowering the pains are relieved.- Cutting in the
bladder, and dripping urine during evacuation.- Very amaH diecharge of urine,
about haifa pint the whole day.- The urine white, turbid, and very slimy, once
with a little blood intermixed. - Continual creeping and itching in the glans, half
an hour after urinating. - Spasmodic erections before urination, at night laxity of
, the penis.- Squeezing eenaation in the. bladder, and tickling in the urethra.-
Copious eecretion of urine.- Urine whitish, and eecreting thick somewhat red-
dish clouds, with relief in the abdomen.
Drawing pJ'ei!I8UJ'e in the scrotum, increased by coughing or meezing.- Pain-·
ful tightneae in the right testicle, extending to the cavity of the abdomen.- Pres-
sing asunder in· the scrotum. - Swelling of the scrotum with an exceaaively pain-
ful pre88Ure, particularly when stretching the body. - Itching on the right aide of
the scrotum, after friction, a vehement burning. - Tightueaa towards the ureters.
The menaee two days .too early. - Thin, BJDall menstrual discharge. - Defore
menstruation, drawing pain in the amall of the back, ttnd dizziness.
Copious secretion of mucus in the nose. - Frequent sneezing with burning
pain in the interior of the nose. - Flowing catarrh and soreness.- Frequent
itching in the point of the nose.- Stoppage in the bead and sensation ofulceration.
- Respiration through the nose is verydifficult.
The voice rough and hoarse. - Hollow oppressed speech. - Pressure in the
larynx.-Copious eecretion of phlegm in the lungs and the trachea, which causes a
frequent coughing.-The orgarla of respiration very tender to impure and cold air.
Continual vehement cough, towards evening.- Thin·, slimy, aqueous expec-
toration. - Cough and expectoration Jeaeened at night. - A dn1l heavy presmre
in the left aide ofthe cheat, increased by coughing.
Short breath, only decreased by raising and keeping up the body, chiefty ,at
night. - A drawing preaaing pain in the depth of the left aide of the cheat, with
· a sensation as' if the whole cheat w~te stuffed up. - Sudden transient stitches
through the whole breast, towards eveni~g.- A dull squeezing towards the shoul-
ders, when lying.
Drawing in the left aide of the brea~~t, alternating with tightness, and pl't'88Ure
towards the abdomen. - Excessive tenderness of this aide to the touch. - A sen-
sation of a heavy weight in the cheat, with oppression and anxiety, at night.-
An intolerable tightness and drawing, frequent sensation ofcoldness in the cheat.
We8k, suppressed, sometimes intermitting heart- beating, scarcely perceptible
to the touch, in the forenoon.- Very strong palpitation of the heart, alternating
with spumOdic grasping in the whole cheat, at night. -Accelerated heart-beating
with apneuatia and suffocating paroxysms, when lying. - 8enaation of fulneaa
and fatigue in the cheat, in the morning. - Dull, squeezing, drawi'ng pressure in
the cheat, transversely above ~e diapbragm.-Sensation ofemptiness and reeling,
when rising. - Itching and biting on the whole bieast with a very copious per~
spiration, eapeeially when lying, diminished by exerciee.
A tearlng drawing pain in the muscles of the neck towards 'he ehovlders.-
•
Digitized by Coogle
Chiococecr~ 14fJ
Vehement l&i&chee in the righi &boulder.- Cold a&iveriDg IIUOCeeded by burnin«
heat, in the evening.- Cold ahiveriug over the shoulders to the beekand abdomen,.
while preMing to s&ooL - Drawing tightDelll in the ript shoulder towanls the
neck. - Spasmodic drawing 88 from a eold, along the baek. - Sorea:., eC&he
whole baek, especially after sleeping ill the afternoon. - Iee-eoldnees in the small
ofthe.back, especially during eftOns to urinate. - Tightnees and squeezing in the
· small of the back, towards the right thigh.
Sensation ofewelling in the right axilla, with stiflheM of the ana.- Vehement
tightnees and rending in· the left axilla towards the sboulder-bl8de and breast. -
Jerks and shooks through the right arm, at'night. - Disability in the rigb& arm,
after awaking.- Drawing in the left elbow, near the wrist minute s&i&chea. -
Squeezing iD: the right thumb, with a aensation ofexeell8ive swelling. - Racking
pain in it, in the morning .when rising. - Intolerable tightness Ol" ruping in the
back of the right hand. moet eueerbatecl in the eveniug, so tllat the leut touch
call8e8 groaning.- l&ching buming on the inner side of .the fore-arm, after
sera&ching so vehement, 88 if ignited coala lie upon it.- Ardor in the palms of
both hands.-A distressing heav~ in both the arms, which only with difficulty
can be raised, when walking. -Sensation of torpor in the left fore-arm, whiea ill
at night as if sleeping.- Boring tearing pain in aU ilie fingers of tbe right hand,
which is incapable of writing; after exereille in the ope& air the pain iadiminished.
Continual throbbing in the right thigh, sometimee hammering, towards eYeD·
ing.- Tightnesa·and dralting ia the rigbl thigh, whieh terminates wiili dillabili&y.
-A tearing rooting pain on the baekaide.of the thigh, which aggravates aitting.-
A rheumatic shooting pain towards the knee, at night, which Gecl'eiii!M to prick-
ling and tightness in the momiDg.- Drawing preasing pains in the right thigh,
which is insensible and immoveable, and ~eareely can be draged behind, after
dinner.- Minute ati&ches obliquely through the upper-part of the left tlligh.-
Spasmodic grasping in the lower part of its after-part, extending to the bead o(
the knee, in the aftemoon.-Spa&modie or sometime& vellicating pain en the inner
side of the thigh.- A violent drawing and rending pain in the interior.of the left
thigh, extending to the ank1ee, 88 if the vea!els were dilacerated or &u,eting. _
Outward rending pain in the middle ofthe left thigh with a sensation of bnrising,
at night. - St.ingjng tigbiD8811 near the be&d of the knee. -Frequent ounalmeesof
both the thighs, sucoeede4 by JOrmieatioa, when lyiDg qWetly.
Tightening pain in the knees, when rising.-Vaeillation and tremor of the
knees sad le@s, whea s&aaiiag and walking.- Stinging tearing in the knees, ex- ·
tending to the backpart of the legs.- Rasping pain in the bend of the left lmee,
towards e,eaiug.-lllinme eti&ches anll arawing, when stretching the Jeg.-Greai
heaviness in &he kneee, which IMkee eoe break down on riiHng. ·
&matiollu i( beaten, iD the legs. - Sp1111111011ic ud ~ pan in the eelTee,
paniewly 1M aigiU w-. lyi.Dg.- Painfnl, rending tigh&Dellll in the left leg; and
on the right shin-bone, 88 if U... inJIIUIUD8-. - Intolerable squening 8fttl
streWbing ill the ligllt ealf, whim ~- - Dial:i~Uy in the lep - Ceatiaual
burniag itehin(, vellemellloly ~ill tile waroatb ofthe bed.
Drawing pain, eometimes single. minute ati&ches in the rigbt"metat.at ~.
-Vehement preaeure in the jein& ol tbe right foet~ when stepping, whieb llfmoat
causes falling. - Swelling of the baek of bo&ll feet. - Exeea!ift &igh&nees ancl
Digitized by Coogle
. 150 Chiococca. _:.. Cicuta.
fJtretehing, when walking. -Stinging tearing in the big toe of the left foot, with
an alternating tightneas, particularly in the evening.- Wrenching pain in the
joint of the teft foot. - Burning and sweat of the feet. - Torpor of both feet, in
the morning.
54. Cicuta.
Cictotaeiroea.- Wa~er-tu.foei.-Gua. Wa..er-&ltiwli"fl Qi,.,.IMrlelo.
Duration ofe.ffect: in chronic diseases, 5-6 week&
Antidote1: arnica (when poi8oned by it, tabacum).
It atutoered well after laehel!is for ulcers in the mouth.
Predominant e.ffectl: PaiM tJifrom a 10re, or 11 contulion or a bloul, on differ·
ent plaeee.- Tremor ofthe limb1.- Jerke, like electric shooke, through the head,
arms and lege.- Spasmodic distortion of the limb& - Sptumodic complaint• of
different kinds, especially with women (when in pregnancy, labour &e. &e.)....-
lhneral convulftonl.- Epileptic fit•. - Cataleptic complaints:- Tetanw.- Ver·
minal disorders.- Hystery.- Raphani&
· Burning itching on the whole body.- Scurfy wppurating eruption..
Sleeple1181leas and sweat at night.- Coma vigil, with restle88 t0811ing about and
eonfuaed dreame.-Frequent awaking from sleep, under a profuee yet refreshing
perllpil'iation.-Lively dreams of the adventures of the day.
Chilline~1 and continual duire ofa totmn 1t011e. -Cold on the thighs and arms,
with inclination to stare.
Anxiety and violent excitation from melancholic narrations. - Whimpe&g,
moening and howling. - Diseatisfuetion and ill humor. - Suspicion and disti'UBt,
with misanthropy. -Easily frightened. - Mania, with dancing, laughing and
comical gesture&
Lou ofinteUect.- Thoughtless inselu!ibility.
Reeling giddineu, to falling.-Vertigo, when rising up in bed, with obscura-
tion ofsight. '
Headache over the orbit& - Hemicrania, with naueea. - Heavine88 of the
head with want .of.reeolleetion. - .Moping pre1!1111re on the forehead.- Qm,e.
queracu ofcommotio cerebri.
&lppurating eruptioM on the' •calp. - Jerking pulling and retraction of the
head.
Ophthalmia nervollJ. - Burning in the eyes. - FirBt very contracted, then
dilated pupils.-When walking, the sight vanishes away with giddines&- 8tar•
ing look with inseDllibility. - All things wavering about.- Movement of letters
while reading. - Diplopia or darknel1 before the eye•, alternating with dyseeoia.
- Varitigated lustre around all objects.-Photophobia.
Sensation ofsorene88 and pain 88 from a blow, behind the ears.-8uppurating
erupnot. on, before and behind the ear1. - DiBeharge of blood from ·the ear& -
Dun hearing.
On the wing ofthe noae, pain 88 from a: blow or from eorellel8.-·llctlk in the
no~trill.- Yellow purulent discharge from.the n011e.
Digitized by Coogle
Cicuta.- Cinchona. 151
Ptde ud cold countenance, with cold hands.- Wan cheeks with IIUnken eyes.
- Wearieome, deep-red, mppurating and cor!fluent eruptiom in the face and
elevatione on the forehead. - Cnuta lacte& - Burning BCabl with a yellow ftuid,
on the upper-lip, eheeka and chin.
Painfully ulcerated lip1. - Painful ewelling of the eubmaxiJiary glands. - ,
Trilmw.- Inclination to gnub with the teeth.
Froth in, and before the mouth. - White ftapa on the edge of the tongue, pain-
ful when touched. - Ulcer• on the edge uf the tongue. - Difficult epeeeh, with
pulling on the head and in the 8l'Dll, with every word. - Dumbne111.
Inability to noallmD; 81 ifthe throat were grown together.
Anorexia, on account of a le1188tion of dryne11 in the mouth.- Satiety and
prellllre in the ltomacb, after the 4ret bit.- Great hmging for coall.- Exceesive
· thirlt (during the crempa).
Vehement, loud hiccupping. - Riling of bitter yellow ftuid, when etooping,
IIUCCeeded by burning in the re10phagus. ·
NGU~ea in the morning and during meals.- Hematemeeis.
Burning prumre in the ltomach.- Throbbing ~ the pit ofthe ltomach, which
is highly ewollen.- Anriety about the pit ofthe 1tomach.
BeUy-ache from UIOrm6, tDit1 conwhionl, in children. - Cutting abdominal
poim, imtndiately after meal., with eleepineM.- Pinching and grumbling in the
abdomen.- A.ecumulation of much ftatulency, with anxiety and peevillhnee~.­
Uleeroue pain in the groin.
Constipation.- Too copiotu, thin ltooll.
Retention of urine.- Frequent urging to urinate.- Involuntary urination.
Protracted menetruation.- Oramp1 ofuxnnen. in labour.- Sterility.
. .
Obltruction of the noee, with a copioue eeeretion of mucus.- Hoanene~~.­
TigAtne11 ofthe che1t and totml ofln-eath.
PreiiUre on the cheat, 81 from a lump, with aggravated reepiration.-Heat in
the cheat.- Pain a1 from a bloUI or a ~~ore, o.n the lower end of the etemiun.-
Burning on the nipples.
Retortion of the back. - Tightne11 over the ehoulder- blades.- Uleero\4 pain
on the lhoulder-bllldes.-Pai'lful tenrion, a~ from a'rtJOUnd, in the mwclea ofthe
neck, when bending back the head.-Swollen throat.
Pain a1 fr"'!' a blmD or ~ore in the •lwulder-joint and the fore-tJNTU. - Sell88-
t.ion of heavine11 and powerle~~ne11 in the arms. - Jerking and pulling in the
llf"rM andjinger1.-Torpor ofthe fingers.
Involuntary jerking in the «noer eztremitiu.- Painful rigidity and lillfue11 of
the Iege.-Tremor of the lega.-The feet knickling inwards, when walking.
66. Cinchona.
Cioul•• .,~.....- Clohul.
Duratitm ofe./feet: in acute dilleuel, a h daYJ, in chronie 30--:40 days.
Antidote•: Arnica, ar.enW.. acidum, artemilia jud., beDadonna, earbonu eel-
a., capsicum, carbo 'leget., ferrum, hydrargyrum, ipecacuanhtJ, pubutill4, eepia,
muriae lOde, eulphur, 11er11trum.
•
Digitized by Coogle
152 Cinchona.
It if.a~ed 01 tmtitiiJt.efor: 8llla fc:etid8, aneiuoe. acidum, aurum, cuprwn, fer-·
runi. hydrargyrum, helleborua, ipecacuanha, sulphur, veratrum, and the conse-
quences ofdrinking tea.
It anltDerl weU qfter: acidum phoephoricum, 81'18Di08WD acidum, hydrargy·
rum, ipecacuauha, veratrum.
·After it anlt/Jer weU: araen. acidum, belladonna, puleatilla, veratrum, vinum~
It has an exacerbating effect after eelenium.
• Predominant tffectl: Stretching dratoing, or jerlti"lf and piercing teariag..
particularly in the limb• and the 1lolloto lHmu, toitA dilability and weaknea ofthe .
"fff'Wing partl. - Rheumatic rending in the limbs, at the beginning.of a walk.
Paint and complaint•, toAich are e:J:Cited or exacerbated by totM:hing, or at
night.- Restlessness in the parts affected, which must be moved.- Numbness
and torpor ofsingle parts.- Numbneu ofthole peru, on which one lief. - Com-
plaint• ariling from the abule of mercury aud the use of tea.- Hy1teric, hypo-
cliondriac, chlorotic, icteric, gastric or biliotU complaintl.-lncipient I!Crophulo-
ai&-ln1lammationa on account of weakness.- Arthritic, hard, red tumefactions
on single parts. - Droptical 1tate of single parts or of the whole body. - The
reiUlt• of vexation and taking cold, particularly oftoo great lou of~ (blood or
mnen).- Suitable especially for ladies.
General great, tremadoul toeaknu•, toith difficult walking and great tendency·
to pertpiration when moiling and in 1leep. - Excessive vivacity with staring eyes..
- Chorea St. Viti. - Ezce11ive irritability of the whole nenou~ 'Y•tem. -- Disin-
clination to mental and bodily exertion. - Syncope. - Atrophy and emaciation,
also with children.- Great impression from draft of air, and disorders from the
least draft.
Immoderate tendemet!ll of the skin of the whole body.- Yelloto-colored 11tin. ·
-Flabby, dry skin.- Galling of children. - Ostitis and caries. - SphaceltU. -
Boring shooting and throbbing in abi!Cesses.
Drotolinell in the day, frequently with palpitation of the heart. - Gaping and
stretching the limbe. - Sleep prevented by much 1cheming and accumulation of
ideal- Sleeplelmu1 from .ez~eslive exaltation. - 8leeplume83 toith prerling
headache, or with bulimy.- Whimpering and moring in sleep, also with cln1dren.
- Oppruling dream~, toith anxiety continued after awaking.- Confused, un-
meaning dreams, after midnight, with imperfect con~eiousne11 'when atDtJking.-
Renlu1, unrefreshing sleep.
Chilly shivering or shaking chilli, mostly without thirst.-Coldne" oft!e body
with congution of blood to the head, warm and red fttce and hot forehead. - Gen·
erally increased wanntQ, with distended veins, without thirst. - In the eTening
heat'ofa few hours' duration, not preceded by chilli, with ardent thirst and wb-
tequent pertpiration.- Sensation of heat, and heat accompanied with pricking
here and there, and longing for cold water.-Marsh-intermittenll, also toith pain
in tAe hepatic region, 110miting of bile and gftflt Gm:iety. - Fever, with tAirtt in
the cold 1tage, and vomiting after the paroz!l'nl. - Fever, wilh thirst after th~ .
chills, succeeded by best and after that debilitating sweat; or with L&i...t after
chilli and heat, during ltoetJt.- Fever•, which begin toitA other• thanfetle1'·'!1"lP"
tom~. - During chills paleness of the face and abdominal pain; during heat
•
Digitized by Coogle
Cinchona. 153
delirium.- Fevers ~h pains in the head, back, abdomen, and limbs, with giddi-
ness, cough lllld stitches in the breaet, during the paroxysm.
Quotidian, tertian, double-quotidian and morning-fever. - Anticipating typus.
-Rheumatic, gastric, bilimu, pituicous, putrid and Blow hectic and typhm-fever,
with exees.ive relaxation. - Fever in the forenoon. - Small (weak) pu1se. -
Elllily per~ring, during 1leep, and with movement. - Debilitating night-
sweat&
Hypochondriac dejeotion. - Great anxiety. - Too careful hesitation. - Di3-
rouragement.....;..Discontentedneas; be conaiders himself unfortunate, lllld imagines
he is hindered and vexed by every one. - Exce111ive irritation with purillanimity,
and intolerance of all noile. - Disobedience. - Contempt for every thing; every
lAing tJppetJrl inlipid.- Irksome fretfillnel!&
theat abundance ofideal and 1!1Chemes, with •low cour.e of thinking.- DU-
U.Cli116tion to work.
Dullne111 and diz21inu1 ofthe head, u if from watcbiilg all night.- GiddiJleas,
when nUBing the head, particularly in the occiput, as ifthe head would full back-
w~rda. .
Attacks of arthritic headache, with nausea and vomiting. - Headache from
mppre111ed catarrh. - Heavineas of the head with laSBitude. - Pain in the fore-
head, when opening the eyes. - &renei• in the brain, with preasing boring in .
the vertex, aggravated by reflection and speaking.- Pruling headache, especially
at night, with •leepleunu1.- Pte8aing headache, increased by the open air.-
Racking or pre11ing tearing in the head.-Prrin in the head, a1 if it would bur1t.
- Piercing pain in the head, with strong pulsation in the temples. - Conge•tion
ofblood to the head, with heat and fulneas ui it. - Painful OI!Cillation and beating
in the brain, it obliges the moving of the head up and down.-Touching, moving,
and stepping increaaee the headache, 88 also a drsft of air and walking in the
wind.
Tenderne11 ofthe exterior ofthe head, even the rootl ofthe hair, when touched.
-Headache as if the hair had been puUed out, or the sealp contracted.- Piercing
pre88ing in the tubera frontalia.- ~erspiration of the I!ICRlp.
Pain in the eyes, resembling an inward preaaure on the edges of the orbits.-
Pain 88 from a grain ofsand in the eye, when moving it.- Preasing biting in the
eyefi.. - Ophtkalmitil with exacerbation in the evening, also with I!ICrophuloua
eues. - Dull eyes. - Protruded eye& - Dull looking cornea and dusky back-
ground of the eyes.- RunniDg ofthe eyes, with creeping in the inner eurfaee of
the lid. - Incipient amaurom. - Flying b'Iack spots and cloudineas before the
eyes.- Photophobia.
Rending in the 881'11, chiefty outwardly. - Stinging, buzzing and tingling in
t1&e ear•. - Dyeeeois. - Redneas and heat of the external ear, especially the flap
ofthe ear.-Etuption in the cavity of the external ear. .
The noee hot and red. - Htl!mOf'f'hagia from the ~e abd mouth.
Pldna in·the moe, also nervo1J8. - Heat and redneas of the filee, especially the
cheeks and ear-flaps.- Pale, earth-colored, also dark-yellow counte716nce.- Col-
ltJpled countenance, witA Aollow circtmiiCf'ibed eye• and a pointed noee, - Bloated
eeuntenanoe.
Digitized by Coogle
154 Cinchona.
The lip& arid, dry and dark fuf'J'ed.- Cracked lipL - Swollen lipL - It.chiog'.
burning small ulcers on the lips and the toque. - PainfUJa.. and swelling oi
the submaxillary glands. , c
Toothache, jerking teMing or preiSing drawing, cau.aed by opep air or a draft.
- Ajflicting duU pain in hoUow teeth. - Throbbing tootllache. ...-- Looee &eedl,.
painful only when maaticatiug. - Black covered teeth.
Dryness ofthe mouth. - Slimy mouth, with insipid watery taste.- 1!4wwp-
tym.- Cracked, black or yeUo&ofurred tongue.- Burning pricking in the toJ13Ue.
- Painful swelling behind on the side of the tongue. - 8peechkami'J¥!-
Dryn6!18 in the throat.-Stinging pain in the throat, chiefly when swallowing,.
and excited by a small draft ofair.
Taste in the mouth, and also offood, like clay. - Sour or bitter tate, also of
food and drink. - Averlion to food and drink, with 11 1emtJtion offul'IIU6. -
Much thir1t.-Bulimia with an insipid taste in the mouth;-Appetite only during
meals, with indifference to all kind of food. - Longingfor many thing•, at one
·timefor thil, at an other timefor that dainty, tDithout knOtDing why.-M\er every
gulp ofdrinking, shivering or chilly with goose-skin, also stitches in the chesi or
pain in the abdomen.- After meall, uneuine11, drOtDrinell, presling fulneu ia
the 1tomach and abdomen, wearineu and sluggishness.·- Weak digestion.
Bitter or sourish eructation, after meal.. - Eructation with the taste of what
has been eaten.-Heart-bum, collection ofwater in the mouth, ineffectUal vomi&u-
rition and pressure in the stomach after every eating. - Vomiting ofslime, wawr
and food. - Hmmatemesis.
Preuu.re in the lt0'1114Ch, sometimes hard, especially after meal& - 'I:ediou&
cramp in the 1tomach, sometimes after loss of1luids. - SeD8ation ofsorene~& with
pl'll881lre in the pit of the stomach, especially in the morning.
Pain in the hypochondefl!.- Piercing and pressing paim in the Mpatic region~
especially when &ouched. - Hepatitis. - Obstruction and nceUing ofthe li11er. -
Induration ofthe liver.- Obstruction and induration ofthe spleen.- Splenalgi4
-Dull stinging pain in the kidneys, especially when bending the body.
Ab4ominal pain in the umbilical region with shuddering. - Hard prenure· and
, fulnell in the abdomen, also after 611ery meal•._.., lndurationa in the abdomen. -
Doughy, droplical nceUing ofthe abdomen. - Ascites aaecatU& - E~ce11ive dil-
tention ofthe abdomen. - Tympanitis. - Pressing stinging belly-ache (below the
navel)t particularly when walking quickly.- Obstructed &tulency.- Flatulent
colic, deep in the hypogutrium, with contraction of the ~ and urging forth
the flatulency as far as the hypoch6ndere, connected with pressing-drawing_
and .
iightnes& - Ezpullion offretid wind. - Inguinal hernia.
Stools daily, with a SUiall and l!low dii!Charge. - IJjfficuU dilch4rge of 10ft
3tooll, as from inactiTity of the bowels. - Frequent, white, pappy stool - Putrid
evacuation&- Yellow, watery, •limy rl1af'J'hcu, sometimes after meals.- D1af'J'ha4
after eating fruit.- Indigeated purging atooll, particularly at night, .with evacua-
tion of every thing eaten, - Involuntary atooll, thin and yellowish. - Dii!Cha!ge
of111ime from the rectvrn.- Pressure and pricking in the rectum and ann& -
Bleeding piles.
Frequent, almost inetfec~ual urging to. urinate, succeeded by Mli!8UJ'e in the
bladder. - Whitillh turbid urine, with a white l!ediment..- Dark urine with a.
. .
o,gitized by Google
Cimhona. 155
lateritioiJs aediment.- Urille pat!l!ing slowly with a weak stream, with frequent
lll'giug. -Jneontinenee in bed. - Hmmaturia.
Ezcited ~~ pa~rion., IIIith lihidinotU imagintJtion&, day and night.- Swel-
ling of the testiele and spermatic chord. - Drawing in the testicles. - SemintJZ
~. also after Ol'llllli8m. . .
Congution ofblood totDardtJ tM uiet'U6, with a sensation offulness and pairifttZ
dotmuoard pt'Uittre t~nDardtJ tM genitals, particularly in walking. - Continual
diecharge of blood fioom the vagina, without perceiving it. - Aggravated men•
atruation.- Metrorrltagia, sometimes after the misuse ofchamomilla.- Symp- .
toms of abortion. - Dile~ lochio. - Oaritis. - Pairiful induration& on tiLe
mouth and tM neck oftM uterua. - During menstruation, jerks, with crall\ps in
the breast and abdomen; or congestion of blood to the head, with pulsation of the
carotides, bloated fuce, protruded running eyes, convulsive motions of the eyelids
and insensibility. - Nymphomtmio of VXIMftl in. claild·bed.- ~"-• with
lplllmOdic contraction of the uterus, sometimes before meustruation, with painful
urging downwards, towards the grqins and anus.- Watery, bloody leucorrluu,
with small lumps ofblood, or stinking pu, itching and so~ness of the thigh&
CGuwrh tDit1 meesing.- Suppressed catarrh.
Hoaraenua, htUky apeskitr,g, cad d«p •outt4"w voice, fioom slime and ad-
.llesion in the larynx.- Bronchitis.
Dry coughing, as from the vapor ofsulphur, in the morning, after getting up.
- Nocturnal~tt.ffocatiirg cough, with pain in the chest and shoulder-blades, compel·
ling to 1hrieking.-Vehement cough, immediately after eating, or increased from
laughing. - Cough with difficult discharge .ofa clear viscous slime, painful con·
cussion in the shoulder-blades and vomiting of bile. - Blood-1treaked e:tpectoration
IDit1a the .cough. - H1Bf110f'f'hagia from the lung•. - .Phtlailil pulmonalil purulenttJ
fiCtlttl; after h~emorrhages, with violent cough.- When coughing, pressure in the
chest, and painful sensation ofsoreness in tbe larynx.
·Tightness and vehement oppression of the cheat. - SujfOCtSting fit, as from
slime in the larynx, in the evening and at night, when awaking.- Difficult breath-
ing; able only wben lying high (OrthopD<H).- lniltling tnt& tDheeang, when
bmltltng.
Preuure em tie cheat, SGmetimes hml, tWpecially on ·die, stemum and after
meals. - Stitchel in the chelt tJnd ill aide•; when coughing and breathing. - 1ft.
~ of tAe-ltttaga, ariaing ftoom weakness, or with ~into the ner-
tJOUI attJte. - lJt1roJig cmtgutim& of tle blOOd totDflf'dl the bretUt end viblent pal-
pittJticm ofthe Aeart.
Pain in the small ofthe beek and the back, 81!1 i(beaten, with the least motion.
- ~ piercing pain in the baek.-Efllily per.,tnf~K in the 6ttck and ~pe,
with Ule leat moti!JIL- IJNtllifiK llfWl jerlcif~K t«Jri.ng in the small of the back,
back, shouldef'oblades and ape, with pflin when mOYing the parts and excited by
the least moCioD.
Dilabling, jerking tetWifag i" t.le rnwclu ad 6oMI qf 1M GNIII, lum& tlfl'tl
· finger•, ezcitetl bf towlritag. - Temsion and weakness in tbe arms and banda.-
Stretching of the arms with crooked fingers. - Swelling, stiffness and pain in the
finger-joints.- Blue nails.
Digitize~ by Coogle
156 Cinchona.- Cinnamomum.""7 Citricum acid.-Clematis.
Diaahling jerking turing in t1&e murclu tmtl borlu qft1&e fAWM, kgt, k-,
feet and tau, when touched.- The legs inclined to sleep, when lli&&io«· - WeM-
ftell and infirmity of the hip-, knee- and foot-joiJIU, which knack in walking. -
Hard, reddish swelling of the thigh, painful to the touch.- Artlaritic, hot nDellUw
ofthe lmee, painful to the ti)UCh. - Hard, dark-red suppurative tumeJiwtion (_.
8C888) on the ca\fof the leg. - Restleasneas in the legs; which must be ill motion
continually.- Red-spotted, hard, tight awelliDg of the foot, accompanied by dark
urine. - Lameneas of the feet.
56. Cinnamomum.
L••r•• c;......... - c;...... - a.n.. z;.,..,.
·Metrorrhages, especially after delivery.
Exceasive irritation of the sexual p&aJioD.
57. Citricum acidum.
It u med a1 antidote for: euphorbium.
NB. srmpto•• or thio •etlioiao will be p11bliohoi ia tloe "Corr.,,•,.i••o6lallirr lo~•.,. A•rol•"'·
58. Clematis.
Duration of f;ffect: about 6 week&
Antidote.: bryonia, camphors.
PredomiMnt f;ffect1: Twitehing in the muaelea ofdifferent part& - Lazily qf
the mmcle1. - E.xceslive meagerne11. - Wearineas in all the limhB, particularly
after eating, with t~Jbbing in all the veins. - Vibration through tl&e whole body,
after lying down. ·
Tedious miliary eruptions.- Eruption ofvelliclea on the body.- &.ly (her-
petic) eruption, with a yellowish corrosive ichor.- Wearilome, red, humid tetter,
with intolerable itching in the warmth of the bed. - Burning or creeping and
throbbing in ulcers, with pricking in the margins, when touched.
Great drowsineas in the daytime, ·even in the moru.in«, after riliDA'· - Sleep-
lel!l!lleas in the evening and at night.-Nocturnal reatleaene~~, wi&b dreamiug and
toeaing about. - Unrefreahed from sleep in the morning.
Quartan fever, composed of shivering with subsequent perspiration. - Per- ·
spiration when awaking, with intolerance ofuncovering.
Sadnen and apprehension. - Morosity. - Disinclination to speak. - lndif·
terence.
Digitized by Google
Clell\atis. 161
Dizzine&~ and heavine&~ in the head, in the morning.-Pre.ing tenllion in the
fOrehead and sides of the head, 88 if in the bone.- A mooting pressure in the
brain.- Boring in tAe templu. - Hammering and beating in the head.
Suppurative pimples on the fbrehead, painful to· the touch.- Burning cutting
in the skin of the forehead.
Pressure on the eyeball. - Biting in the eyu and the edge1 of the lid., par- ~
ticularly when closing them. - Stitches in the canthi.- The eyes inflamed and
vehemently running.- Tediom iritil.- I'tflmnmation and ulceration of the edges
of the lids.-Photophobia. ·
Burning on the external'ear.- Ringing in the ears.
Suppurative pimples on the root and point of the nose, painful to the touch.
Pale and rickly colored countenance. - Burning in the cheek. - Burning cut-
ting through the under-lip.-Vesiculous eruption on the lipe.-Cancer. on the lip1.
-Suppurative pimples on the chin.- Swelling ofthe IUbma.rillary glan.tU, with
hard, tight, throbbing knots, painful to the touch.
Toothache, incre888d by amoking tobacco. - NoctUrBal toothache, increased
to an intolerable degree, when lying horizOntally, with ~hrowing about, weakne811!,
~ety, and intolerance ofuncovering.- Shooting or drawing jerking toothache,
extending into the whole side of the .head, and making mental labour impossible.
Dryness of the tongue, in the morning.- Boring dull stitches in the root of
the tongue.- Bloody saliva ejected.
Long continued satiety, with relishing offood.- Nausea from smoking tobacco,
with weakness in the leg& ·
Bruising pain in the hepatic region, when touched or bending.- Cutting con-
traction in ~e region of the kidneys, when walking. - Urging fbrward in the .
inguinal ring, as ifa hernia were developing itself. - Swelling and i.ndt4ration of
the inguiMl glan.tU, with a jerking pain.
Frequent thin or purging stools, without abdominal pains.
.Augmented urine. - Diacharge of pu1 with the urine. - During urination,
drawing in the spenpatic chord.- At the commencement of urination, burning
and biting in the urethra.- Stricture of the urethra, with an obstructed dribling
discharge of urine.
Drawing in the testicles and spermatic chords, ~nding to the inguinal region
and the thigh. - Painfull'./ i'fflamed and IIOOllen tuticle1. - Induration of the
tuticlu.- Thickening of the scrotum.- Aversion to lust, 88 after excessiv\1
sexual gratificatioDil.- During seminal discharge in coitu, burning in the penia.
Vehement fiowing catarrh, with much discharge. .
Violent, dull piercing jamming in the side of the cheat and abdomen.-Stitch-
ing in the bre88t, incre88ed by inspiration. - Induration ofthe f7WUMIGty gltmtlr.
- Carcinoma of the br688t.
Swelling ofthe azillary glantU.- Pressing or drawing in the mUICles of th11
arms and band&-Arthritic nodes on the finger-joints.
Pustulous eruption about the loin& - Tearing in the thigh& - Herpa •quo
mDIUI, oa tl&e tl&igh.- Furuncle on 'he thigh.
14
o,9itized by Coogle
158 Coccinella.- Cocculus.
59. Coccinella.
Coeeiaelle ..,,."""lata.- Coel • •lulf•r.- e-. s-n.Aif.r, s..•trlll6elone.
Dull Jwduhe, like a m.teotiou. of the brain towards the temples and occiput.
- Piercing rending in one halfof the forehead.
Redness and beat of tbe cheek&- Cougestion ofblood to the face, like ftuehes
ofb.eat.
Toothache ofthe molares, as if they were hollow, or as ifair were paseing in.
-Jerking, drawing, racking arul"tearing in t"M teet/a, as if they would be drawn
out.- Pulsation and beating in the teeth.- Swollen gums.
60. Cocculus.
Coeewlwt no6.r•-·- l•tli• eoelelt.- •-· ICoeltl•-· (M.....,,__..,...)
Dunztioft ofeffect: about 20-80 daTa.
Atatidotes: camphora, nux Tomica.
U.ed u llfttidotefor: cbamomilla, cupnun, ~ and nux.
It a1UU!erl tmlll after: ipeeacuanha.
Predominant e.ffecu: INabling drawing andtearittg, by 111hoeborcontinued, ifl.
t"M limb•, u ifit tDere in tlle bonu. - Twitebing ofthe mtuJOII!II!I ofl!liDgle pu1&-
Mooting :pain in the bones of the limbl!l.- Sorene11, also in interior organa.-
Selll!ation ofemptinees or hollownees or con.trktien minterior orgtllll.- Painful·
ness of the limbs on every touch.-Paiafull!tiflbess, knacking and jarring of the
joints. - Complaint• appearing on one half of tke body. - Arthritic eomplaints
with hot swelling of the parts affected.- C6ld, luwd gland'lllar tumefaction~, with
piercing pains when touched.- Hemorrhages.- Gattric and biliou8 eotnplaiat1.
- Sea-liclmen•..:..!Norder• arising from travelling in a carr'iiJKe;- also from
vexation and mi.8uee ofcbamomilla.- Hy•teric complaint. mttl cramf'l o/dfj"eretat
' kind8, particularly toitk 1adne,.- Chlorotic complaitat1.-Ortlfn1!8 mad oot&wlliou
oft"M limb• and t"M whole body, also in consequence of touching very tender and
painful ulcers and wounds, or when making use of the partl!l aflected.- Epileptic
fits.- Paralym, particu~afly on one ride.- The complaintl!l ellacerbat.ecl by 1leep,
·~ng, eating anl drinking, pattieularly &om coffee and ~lfnOlring.
Weaknu• and lon of vigour, after the I!IIMllest bodily exeriion, motion, or
want of the neceesary sleep. - Deficiency ofvital energy. - SynllOpe. - 'floemor.
•- Numbne88, 80metimes of the hands, othertimes of the feet, in transient attacks.
-Intolerance ofthe (cold tmd tDarm) open air.
· Much itching, e8peCially in the eveniDg, when undrt!l!l!ing, or ac night, in a
feather-bed. - Red, millet-like efflorescence, itching in the warmth. - Hatd,
knotty pustules with red areola111 and bumingpailt.-Red spots on the brew and
the !!ides ofthe neck.
Continued sleepineM in the tnorning. - Coma ngiL .._ 8lup dilturbed bg IZ•
ceuive anziety and rutle11ne11. - Startling, l!lbriekin« and grasping about with
the hands, in sleep.- A~, frighiful dreamt.- Fear ofspectres, at night.
Chilhs and sensation -of coldness with trembling. - Intermittent fever with
•
Digitized by Coogle
Cocculus.
ehillinM, &Dough tbe ekiB ia bllt &o the tooeb. .;_.Sllakin, eWU. in dae eveniag,
preceded by ahudderiDg and blue llaiJa. - Gllllric and biliowfewr., tMth nervo&~~
~- Li~J«ering ..,_.., /etJer, or inflammatioll8, with uneo1l8Ciousneee.
• Melancholic abiOI'ptima ia _, tVJectioM, 118 a&r reeeivio« otJeaees. - Great
' fearful anomty, and fear ofdeath. - Liability to be easily fri«h&eeed.- Exoe.ive
88DI!itiv~ ofmiud. -luelination, to take meey thioc wroug, with irri&ability.
Mania.- Mistaken in the time; it passes too quickly.
Muddled head, particularly after eating and drinking.- DuuRUI in the lteGd,
- increased by reading and re1leetion.- GUUineu a frowt int«n:ication, or with in·
cliMtion to vomit, when raisiDg in bed, which compels one to lie down ~
Headache, u ifthe eyetJ would be forced out: - Headache wntlMU~ea and in·
cliutiolt to vomit, and soreness in the bowels.- Headache, like emptiRUI and koJ.
lovmeu in the head, or like con~triction ofthe brain.- Thf9bbing pain, now in
the vertex, thef! in the temples.- Convullive trembling ofthe head. ·
Pressure and soreness in the eyes, with difficult opening ofthe lidl, at night.
-Inflammation ofthe eye-lidi.-"Gl888y, protruded eyes.- Dimsightedness with
dark spots.before the eyes.- Forms before the eyes.
Buzzirig in the ears with dyseeoia. ....,. Swelling of the parotis.
Swelling of the inner nose, 110metimes on one side.
The face fiery red, bloated and hot. - Flushes of heat on the cheeks. 7 Blue
circles around the eyes.-SP.SSmotlically distorted face.-Spasm in the zygomatic
bone and the masseters.- Hard ~Welling oftlte 81dniuzrillary glanth.
Toothache in decayed teeth, only while eating. - Looeeness of the teeth with
swollen gums.
Dryness ofthe mouth, without thir!t.- Bladder-likefroth before the momh.-
Yellow.furred ~ongue.
Dryne11 in the pharynz.- Great tenderness ofthe pharynx; all food seems 811
ifacrid or too strong ofsalt.- Oesophagitis. - Conltriction in the pltJrynz, like
paralysis ofit.
Taste metallic, coppery. - &ur tate, particularly after eating and when
coughing. - Sour taste of bread. - Bitter tate of tobacco. - Looging for cold
drink, especially beer. - Thirlt.while eating.- Excessive loathing ofall food and
drink.- Averlion to eDery thing •our.
Eructation, with pain in the pit of the stomach, and the stomach. - Vacant
offensive, putrid eructation with incliiiGtion to 11omit.
Attackl ofnmuea, increaling to tgncope. - Nau~ea with incliMtion to vomit,
when eating, or after becoming or taking cold, with collection of much ealiva.-
Nau.ea and vomiting, ciJUied by riding in a carriage. •
Fulness in the stomach, with obstruction of breath.- Vehement cra'?f. in_ the
lfomach, with rtfffing ·~ezing pain, IOflletima immediately after meal.~ous
oppre.ion and pinching in the pit ofthe mnnacA, with opprurion ofbretlth.
The hypochonders smarting, as ifbeaten.-Preeeing pain in the hepatic region,
iiWI'tl888Cl by coughing and bending forward. - &itches in dae hepatic region. -
Hepatilis and diaphragmatitia. - Afhtioa cf&he kidneys.
&lly-acAe, a if./r't1m .oreneu of the intutinu, ·or &om an internal alleeees,
1YUh every motion. - Pressure u &om a etone in &he WDbiJiea1 aad hypop~&rical
Digitized by Coogle
160 Cocculus.- Cofi'ea.
'
region. - Emptinn1 tmd m&IGtior& ofiollottmeN ill tie ll6domm. - Distended a&.
domeJi. :..... ~lion in the epigtlltrium, which obltruetl the breath.- Drawiag
and tearingin the abdomen.- Abdominal cramP', particularlyhylteric, wi&h oppree-
sed or abbreviated menstruation.- Sptumodic jltlltllent colic, at night, iDcreased
by coughing.- Inguinal hernia.
Conltipation, with ineffectual eft'orts to stool. - Hllt'tl, difficult evacuation.-
Soft yellow stooJ&, burni11g in the anus.
Aqueous urine, with urging.
Itching in the scrotum.- Drawing 10re pain in the telticle1, wlaen touched.-
Very l!len&itive, irritated genita)&, with propensity to _coition.
Memtruotion too early, with tJbdomintJl cram,.. - Uterine erampe.- Metror-
rhagia.- Bloody-•limy dilchorge from the uteru~, during pregnancy.- Leucor-
rhrea, resembling the washings offlesh, with discharge 'Ofa purulent ichorou flaiL
Coryza (catarrh), with ulcerated nostriJ&
Fatiguing cough, from oppreuion of the che1t, which originates with the
cough.- Cough, every fourth night at 12 or 2 o'clock, with tightness in the
larynx, irritating to coughing. '
·Obstruction ofbreath in the throat·pit, as ifthe throat were c0111tricted.
Preseure on the chest, as from a stone.- Cramp4 in the clte1t, also hy1teric.-
Tightening comtriction of the breast, sometimes on one •ide, with obstruction of
breath. - Rolling and 1en1ation of emptines1 in the che1t. -The breast futigued
from loud readihg.- Agitation towards the breast, with anxiety.- Palpitation of
the heart.- Carditis.
Disabling drawing in the 1maU of the back. - Drawing ~nd tearing in the
back, particularly· when speaking, walking or stOoping. - Stinging between the
shoulder-blades and in the small of the back.:..... Knacking of the cervical vertebrm.
which cannot sustain the head. '
Stitches in the shoulder-joint and the upper-arm, when at rest.- Stinging
tearing through the arm, originating from an ulcerous finger.-Convulsions ofthe
arms, with clinched thumbs.-Paralylis ofthe arms.- Twitching in the muscles
of the upper'-arm.- Pain as ifbeaten in the brachial bone, when moved.- Ar·
thritic, hot ~Welling ofthe hands.- Numbness or alternating heat and cold, now
of one, then of the other band.- Torpor of the hands. - Spasmodic contraction
and twitching ofthe fingers.
Paralysis of the lower extremitiea, proceding from the small of the back. -
Drawing tearing in the knees, feet and toes.- Pain as if beaten in the thighl,'
when moved.- Knacking of the knee, when moved. - Injlammatory ~Welling. of
the knee, with tranaitory stinging pain~. - Burning in the feet. - Hot, itching
JWeUing of the feet, sometimes in the evening.- Numb~ess of the feet.- Cold,
sWeating feet. \
61. Coffea.
Cuf•• n••le•.- Cof••-- Germ. ll-fu.
Duration oft;ffect: a few hours up to 10 days.
Antidote~: aconitum, chamomilla.
llled as antidotefor: ptorinum and all autop!orine.
Digitized by Coogle
Cotrea. 161
Predominant effects: Ezceslively senritive pcirifulnell ofthe parts 4ffected. -
Great mobility of the m\ll!eles and lightness of all bodily functio08. - Ezculive
irritation ofthe body and mind, allo tDith confined 10omen. - Complair&U antl paiM
follouJing cold, par'ticularly UJith inclination to 10eep. - Disinclination to go into
tAe open air, and futigue and increaee of complaints, when walking in the open
air.- Convulrionl tDith gna~hing ofthe teeth, with enid limbs.- Apoplezia, san-
guinea and nervosa.- Bad effects oftoo great joy and other mental emotions, also
during the operation ofother medicines.- Dilordersfrom 10ine-debauch.
Purpura miliaril.- Measles. - Cough accompanying measles.
8leeplessne11from sprightline11 ofmind, accumulation of thoughts add imagin-
ations.- Inclination to lie down and close the eyes, without being able to sleep.
Much cl,illliness, IDith an increasedfeveris~ 10armth ofthe body.
Inclination to 10eep,·h010ling, shrieking, throiDing about and beiDildered, par-
ticularly durjng paroxysms of pain• ....;. Screaming of children. - Anguish and
alarmed conscience.- Excessive vivacity and loquacity. '
Lively, increased phantasy and acuteness ofreflection.
Headache, as if the brain were dilacerated.- Hemicrania, as if a nail were
forced into the parietal bones.- Heavineas ofthe head.- Congestion of blood to
the bead, particularly when speaking.
Excessively sensitive hearing; music sounds too loud and shrilL
Epista.Jtis with heaviness of the head.·
Toothache 10ith rutlessne11, anziety and inclination to 10eep, particularly at
night and after meals.
Sere throat, tDith ezceslive pairifulnus, and awelling of the soft palate.
Taste in the mouth, as from hazle-nuts or sweet almonds.- PecuJitu" relish
for tobacco.- Excessive sensation of hunger.
Crami? in the 1tomach, ofa vehemently stinging pain.-Anxiety and oppression
in the pit of the stomach, with pressure; clothing too tight.
Abdominal paiu UJith a seMitivenus approaching despair, particularly with
women• .
·Frequent soft stools.- Diarrhma, also when teething.
Copious urination, particularly about midnight, with flabby genitals.
Great inclination to coition, with very excited genitals.
Excessive irritation of the female sexual parts, with libidinous itching, copious
aecretion of slime and frequent discharge of blood. - Metrorrhagia. - Too vehe-
ment paiM in labour, and painful after-pangs.- Puerperal and milk-fever.
Slwrt, dry, lacking cough, with strong irritation in the larynx and anxious
throwing about.- Suffocating catarrh..- CougA VJith meules.
Tremor of the hands, when holding any thing still. - Spasmodic crooking of
the fingers.
Spasm in the calfof the leg when drawing up the knee. - Spasm in the sole,.
when bending the f~ forward.-Tremor in the feet.
Digitized by Coogle
181 Cofi'ea tosta.- Colchicum.
62. Coffea tosta.
Duratilm of'tffect: from a few to 24 houre.
U1ed a apGlliatit~e in torpidity, aDd wr aurclwge of the et.omach.
Antidotu: acetum, ignatia, nux vomiea, against tedious conaequencea: coft"e&,i
hyckargyrum. peorinwn, conium1
Uled a antidote/or: anguatura, chamomilla, ignatia, nux, poJatilla, j~boe,
rhus, causticum, acidum phosphoricum, carbo veget., carbonaa potaaae, manp.·
nwn, boru aoche, paris, and
In CGIU ofpoiloniRg 111ith belladonna, agaricua, laUI'OCei'8IIU8o valeriaDa. OJium,
phospborus1, ranunculus, veratrum.
It antt0er1 111eU after: colocynthia, conium (alc.ernately).
63. Colchicum•
.Duratilm of'tffect: about 30 days.
Antidotu: nux, pulsatilla, cocculus1
Predominant e.ffecu: Rheumatic and arthritic rending in the limln and other
parts.- Shooting, pulling drawing in the muscles and the perioeteum.- Sting·
ing in the joints. - Dilabling weakneu in the mtuelu. - Paine accompanied by
duability and lamenu•.- Dropsical complaints.- Epidemic autumft.tJl dy•enteriu,
with many gatric complaint•.- Mental exertion, touch, bright light, smell of
pork, and improper behaviour ofothers, exacerbates the cue excetlllively.- .Fl-om
tlce clo.e.ofthe day to the break ofthe day the paint are the molt ltrong.
GenerallaSeitude, and such an excessive tendemeee ofthe body; that it can-
not be moved; without moaning. - Exhaustion and weaknf88 from lucubration.
Itching as iffrom nettles. - Creeping, as after freezing, on different part1.
Bleepine11 in the daytime, with aversion to labour.- Sleepleelloee from exces-
sive nervous irritation.- Frequent frightful awaking.
Great dt,;ection.
Weakneee ofmemory. - Forgetj'ulne11.
Pruling in the occi~t, with mental exertion. - Squeezing headache, partie..
ularly over the eyes. - Rending in one side of 'the head.- Creeping in the front,
or on the head.
Pain in the eyes, like a mooting drawing deep in the eyf'balls.-8\yeDing of the
lower lids. - Suppuration of the meibomian gland& - VillibJe drawing iD the
lower eyelid. •
Cramp in the ear, with rending shooting.- Creeping iR tis utlrior t¥the
ear, as after freezing. - Sensation ofobl!truction in the ean.
Preeeilig heavineee in the nasal bones. - Senaation ofeoreae~~ in the eep&um,
increaaed by touch.- Ezculively delicGte tente of~fUlling.
Diatigured cast of the countenance. - Lamentable, doleful, "':/fer''ng apect.-
Sensation offorcing asunder in &he fileial beaee.- The IIIUietera u ifdistended,
Digitized by Coogle
Colchicum. lfi:f
with ddlicult opeDing of tbe mouth. - Twitchinw drawiDg in the fiuiial muacles
aad bonea. - ~ 011 one ride oftJaeft~ee, uteoding into tbe ear and to the
head. - Creeping in tlae tkin oftAeft~ee, u ifafter rree.illg.
Cracked lipe.- Rending in the UJlder.lip.- Spasmodic pain in the muillary •
joint. •
Rendi11g tootMcAe. - Sensitiveness of the teeth, when pr...ed together.-
Tearing in the gums.
Heat in the mouth.- Rending in thefaucet. - ExCftll!ive, aqueout 1alitultion,
with dryne. in the throat. - Heatlir_&e~•, 1tijfneu and if&lenribility ofthe tongue.
Sore throat u from a swelling on the entrance into the 0380pbagu& - Creep-
ing in the .fuuces. - Constriction of the resophagus. - bVfatnmat'ilm ofthefatlcel
and fUOPIUJgtu. - Much greenish mucus in the throat and mouth.
Appetite suddenly eeaaing, even when seeing or smeDing food, together with
loathing. - Tutelu1neu offood. - Much thirst, eepeeially for coffee.
Frequent eructation of wind. - Cooatant hiccupping.
Faintiah 1UI'IJ,6ea from the maell offruh egg• or fat meat. - Nausea during
mea&- NaW!Ie& with indination to vomit after swallowiDg saliva.- Votraiti1Yf of
w.Wt 1u» 6eea uten, or of bile.
&omacl& 11ery 1emible to the touch. -Sensation ofsorenee~ and creeping in tbe
e&omaeh. Senlation ofeold11U1 or burning in the ltomtJCla.
Distention and fulnees of tbe abdomen.- PreuingfontHif'fl in the epigtlltriu'IIL
-Colic-like rending in the abdomen. - Soreness on tbe left aide of tbe abdomen,
when pressed on.- Flatulent colic, with hysterics. - A..eite& - Affeetion of the
kidneys.- Burning and pressing in the hypogastrium, in the region ofthe blad·
der, and the inner part of the genital& '
Constipation. - Difficult, insufficient, ttwlg ttool, with ~·- Unpereeked
evacuations. - Dytenteric diarrluu. of tDhite, trall8JIIU"66lt-gelatinoua elime. -
Much slime discbarged &om the rectum. - Bloody stoola with ecrapiuge of the
intee&ines. - Prola)li!UII ani.- Creeping, itching, burning and tearing iA the araw.
- Spasm in the sphincter ani.
Vehement ~g to urinate with increued discharge of a bright urine. - Dt-
miniiW dilcharge of a dark uriM, tDitla ttraini'Yf and ~· - Painful rlil-
charge of little fiery urine. - Brown, black urine. - lltm&i'lfK in t1te urHaar,
ductl. - DrawiDg, tearing and cut&ios in the urethra.
Renwmginthe~Uechoro.
Menses too early.
Tedious catarrh, with hawking out much viscous nasal slime.
Crawling in the trachea. - Tic~ in the larynx, with irritation to a dry
cough.
71i&'Atneu oftAe chut and tlf6inlt rupiration.- Periodical,prulingfllld,...._
ing .,.,.,..umofthe chut.- Pectoral crcanp& - Stitehea in &he eheet, allo wbell
breathing. - Dull shooting rending in the breCIIt. - Soreneea iD &he ltnut, when
t.oucbed or mo'fed.- ~ - Crawling o~ the breut.- &rorag ,.z,m,_
tion oftl&e heart.
Ptliu iA t1te lmGll of1M 6GM. tlllaen totrc1aecl, &om a sore. - Teuoins iD the
llaek.- StiDgiDg teDIIion betw... the~ ·
Digitized by Google
164 Colchicum.- Colocynthis.
Rending in the tlf'fM' hand8 and jingef'l. - DiMJbling pan mthe IJf'fM. -
Tremor of the hand& - Curvation of the fingen. - 'I"ingling in the pgers, ..
from freezing. - Torpor of the finger-pointe.
Rentling in the thigh., feet and roe.. - DiaBbling drawin~ in the thigh~t. -
Hot sweUing ofthe legs, with rending in them, when moving. - Tingling in tlut
toes, as after freezing.
64. Colocynthis.
Duration ofq{ect: about 40 days.
Antidotes: Camphora, caUIIticum, chamomilla, eoft'ea toeta, staphyagria.
Used as an antidote for: Causticum.
. It was sometimes applied in colics, alternately with pure eoft'ee.
Predominant q{ects: Painful spasm and crrmapy contraction of the internal and
external parts. - Shortening of the tendons, on single parts and on the whole
body, with eonwaction of all the limbs, like a hedge-hog. - Stifthess in all the
joints. - Longwise rendireg pains in the whole body. - ·Disordel'8 and complaints
of various kinds, from stijled vexation or mortificlltion and irritation, on aceount
of the unworthy treatment of ones' self or others.
Lassitude, when walking in the open air.- 8rpacope, with coldness ofthe ex-
tremities.
Troublesome itching with great restlessness of tAe body, partieularly in the
eTening in bed, succeeded by perspiration. - The skin of the whole body peeling
off.- Scabious eruptions.
Restless night-sleep.- Lying on the back in sleep, with one hand under the •
occiput.-· Many lively and lustful dreams.- Coma with open eyes, alternating
· with delirium.
Skin dry and hot.- General dry heat. - Coldnes& and chills, with heat in the
filce, without thirst. - Pulse hard, full and quick. - Night-nJeats, on the head,
hands, thighs and feet, smelling like urine.
Dejection, with morose disinclination to speak.-Inclination to weep.-Anxiety
and restlessness. - Inclination to run away.
Giddiness, even to falling, when suddenly turning the body, with tottering of
the knees. ·
Headache, as from a draft of air, abated when going into the open air.- Prelfo
ring squeezing in the sinciput, aggravated by stooping and lying on the back. -
Attacks of pressing, squeezing, or drawing hemicrania, with nausea and womiting,
80metimes every afternoon at 5 o'clock. - Mooting tearing pains in the head. -
Congestion of blood towards the head.
Burning pain in the skin of the forehead and on the ecalp. - Stinging pain in
the forehead and eyes, from outside inward. - Heat on the head.
InflammatiQn of t~e eyes, also with arthritic penons. - Burning cutting in
thB eyes.- Running ofa sharp liqnid from the eyes.
Digitized by Google
Colocynthis. 165
In•the noee throbbing and ·mooting.
Pale and flabby countenance with sunken eyes. - Deep-red countenance. -
Tearing straining pain in the face. - Scald in the face.
Toothache, as if the nerve were pulled and stretched.
Rough tongue. - Yellow furred t.ongue. - Cramp in the throat, with empty
eructation and palpitation of the heart.
Diminished appetite, without thirst, still a great inclination to drink, succeeded
by a putrid taste in the mouth. - Bitter taste ofall food. - Constant nausea.
Pain in the stomach, also after meal& - Pain in the pit of the stomach, when
touched.
Distention of the abdomen. - TympGnitu. - Incipient ascites. - Rpamwdic
pGin and comtriCtion in the inte.tinel. - Vehement, exceslive colicl, with cutting,
gripuig or contracting paine, which compel one to crook oneself, with restlesmeu
in the whole body, and shivering in the face, coming from the abdomen. - Colic
and diarrhrea, after the least food.- West-Indian dry beUg-Qche.- Colic-likt IJHU"
modic pGin, after vexation. - Pinching and raffing in the abdomen. mitigated by
a strong exertion. - Cutting in the abdomen as with a knife, with chills and tear-
ing along the legs. - Great senlliqveneee, eorene88 and sensation ofemptine88 in
the abdomen. - Grumbling in the abdoinen.- Coffee, and tobacco-~moking abatu
the pai718 in the botDell.- After eating potatoes, ~lly-ache, and sudden evacuation.
Constipation.- Greenish-yellow frothy diarrhrea, with a sourish, putrid, or
mouldy stench.- Slimy diarrb<ea.- Bloody evacuations. -Dysenteric diarrhrea,
with colic-like pains. - Doring evacuation, contraction in the rectum.- PainfuUy
swollen Juernorrhoidal tumours in the rectum and on the anus. - Haemorrhage
&om the anus.- Paralysis ofthe sphincter ani.
Ineffectual etforta to urinate.·- Diminuhed secretion·ofurine. - Abundant,
bright-colored urine, during the pains. - Stinking urine, which soon becoJUefl
thic~, gelatinous and viscous.
Urging towards the genitals, from both aides of the abdomen, which occasions
a di.l!charge of the semen. - Priapiamua. - Total impotence. - The prreputium
retracted behind the glans.
Menses too early. - Puerperal feYer........ Suppressed lochia, also after vexation.
Phthisis trachealia.
Dry cough, from irritation in the larynx, also when smoking tobacco.
Nocturnal asthmatic paroxysms. - .Oppreaaion of the chest, as if the chest
were pre88ed together. - Painful nodes in the female breasts.
Pains in the back, drawing, as if the nerves were strained.- Tension in the
neck and the shoulder-blades. - Abaee88 of the axillary glands.
Pain in the lilioulder-joini as if beaten, after vexation.- Pressing drawing pain
in the brachial bones.- Cramping pain in the band, which not allows to open tlie
fingers without difficulty. - Drawing in the tendon of the thumb.
· Acute and chronic arthritu uchiatica, with pains from the renal region extend-
ing to the th'iihl.- Hip-gout; the hip seems as Ifsecured with an iron cramp on
the pelvis and the sacral region. - Straining stitches in the lumbar and iscbiatie
region, chiefly wh• lying on the back. - Pains in walking, as if the Psoas-
JD118Cie were too short. -- Lur#atio lpO?Jlanea. - lttftexibility of the knees, which
Digitized by Coogle
166 Colocynthi&.- Conium.
prevent• bending. - Spasm in the legs. - Sti&chee ia die lap, pertieululy wllea
at. reeL- Graat heavW. and tremor ofthe leg& - Teariag ia the eole ofthe
foot, when at rest.
65. Conium.
c...;.......,,.,.,•. - •••'••"· - o..... ,.•••.,•li•rli•t·
Duration ofeffect: about 40 days.
Antidote•: cotfea toeta, spir. ether. nitr.
U.ed a antidotefor: aCidum nitr.
Predominant effect•: SJl8'1DB and crampy paint in different Jl8l1L- Sorene.
of the limbs and joints, when at rest.- Nocturnal paint and complaints, dJBturb-
ing sleep.- Complaints originating when at rest and aggravated 88 eoon u motion
begins. - Easily injured by lifting,- Complaints from blows, bruil'les &c. - At-
.tackl ofhyBteric and hypoc~riac complaintl, particularly also with great conti-
.nence ofunmorried pera0111, or after excessive gratification of the venereal palllion.
-Hysteric cramps. - Subsultlls tendinum (twitching ofthe tendons), tremor and
convulaive jerking ofthe limb•. - Agitation of the blood. - Dropsical complaint&
- Sorophulous maladies.- Glandular 11116lling and induration, with creeping
pricking pains, also after blows or brWses. - Cholorotic dilortler1.- Syncope. -
Apoplexia with paralysis, also with aged persons. - ComplaW. of ltnility. -
Various complaints offemales, particularly of pregnant women.
Great relaxation, toith an irritation to laJI.lfA..- Sickly •entation qf weakneu.
in the morning, in bed..._.. Lassitude, particularly in the legs.- 8trengthlumeu
and nervouaweakneu, also after misuse of nitric acid.- Sudden relaxation when
walking.- Great liability to,take cold.-Complaintl and ezhautionfrom 'IDIJlking
in the open air.
Stinging and pricking in the 1kin. - Painful inflammation of the skin. -
Nettle-ruh, from great bodily exertion.- Scabious pimples, which become scurfy.
-Brown, or red itching spots on the body, which come and go.- Inveterate,
humid, or crusty, burning herpes.- Blackish ulcers with bloody st,inking ichor
and pricking tightness.- Caries.- Panaritis.
DrotDsineBB in the daytime, even in the morning. - Coma.- Sleepineu in the
e~~ening, toitk contraction of the eyelids. -Late sleep. - U~freshing, filnciful
·sleep, with whining and many, anxious or fearful dreams.- Half waking after
midnight, with great anxiety.-Night·ware.-Jerks during sleep.
Much chilliness, coldness and shivering. - Internal dry heat. - Inftammatory
and lingering fevers.- Catarrhal fever with inflammation of the throat, and
cough.-:-.Irregular pulse.- Night-BtDetJtll, also at the beginninJ ofsleep.
Hy1teric anxi01lllneiiB, with sadness and inclination to weep.- Shunning so-
ciety and yet avoiding solitude.- Fearfulness (fear of thieves)•....; Liability to be-
. easily frightened.- Rl humor and melancholy.- Hypochondriac iailjfference.-
Dejectedness.- Aversion to labour.- Fretful irritability.
Confused thoughts and insanity.- Bewildered, 88 ifin COIPB vigil.-Dullneea
ofapprehension.-weaknees of the power of thinkiD&"and memory; tbrgett\llDea
Digitized by Coogle
Conium. 167
Ia~ after 4riakiJI! die ..Uest quantity ol8pirit1Miualiquic1a.-Giddi-
llMI, in a circtllM moaiott, on riling up; or cauaing to fidllidewards, tiiAm z.oJc..
iRK tWOUnd.
Att4c.b flj' ~. with n&UI8& and TOIDiting ofslime. -Dull pain in the
head, partieularly when 'W1Ilkio« in &lae open air.- Great eensitiveoeas in the
bnlb, even ft"'OD speaking and bwlde.- Daily headache, occasioned by teo I01IIJl
evacuations. - Pains in one. side of the head, 88 if beaten. -Sensation 88 ifa
large foreign body were in tlae head.- Heavine~~~~ and fulnet~~~ of the head, espe-
ciaUy in the morning, when awakilig.- Drawing in the head, with stupor of the
brain. - Attacks oltearing headache, requiring to lie down. - Tedious ltinging
~ in tAe ~ of the IIHd, or in tbe foreliead outward&- Shooting and
grasping in the mebead, aa iffrom the etomach.- Hydroeepllalus intemWI.
Hmr.follirt8 off.
Pretaure in the eyu, when reading.- ItckiftK under the eyu, with biting
barning~ when rubbed.- kohing pricking or biting in the internal canthi- Sen.
MJtitm &j coll:l7a6U 1# the eve•, 1Vhen walking in the open air. - Burning in tlae
eyfle, With ~g in the ertlitiJ, in the evening.- In&mmatioa and rednees in
the conjunctiva.- Hordeolwn.- 8poU em tke ewnec.- Yellowilh eonjunctiva.-
.l)uft appearance of the eyes. - Protruded eyes. - T.remulOWI look. - Cloudinel!8
before the eyea.- Transient day-blindness, in the light ol the .Un.- Cataracta,
especially from a blow. - ~ - Presbyopia. - Diplopia.- Motion of the
lines, when reading. -Dark epots or variegated streaks before ·the eyes, in the
room.- All objects appear red.- The eye• dazzledfrom the dey-light.
8booting in the ear•, also when walking in the open air.- Drawing Btinging
in the ears outwards. - TedrlftK Gnd •li"KiRK in and ll1xmt the ear1.- Accumu-
latilm ofcerumen, ofthe appearance ofrotten paper, mixed with purulentllime.-
mood-red eeruMen.- HttnrmiftK, tiRKling, and buuing in the ears.- Painfully
fule sense of hearing.- Hearing diminished, which had been improved by the
removal ofthe cerumen, until it accwnulaMcl agajn. -Indurated .welling of the
parotia. '
Inflammation of the in~rior of the noee, also after miau.ee of menlury.-
·Pt~.rulent dilcAtlrge j'rM1t the Mte.- Hemorrhage ofthe noee. - Increased sense
ofIIDlelling.
Heat of the fare.- Pale, blueish colored countenance, al8o with swelling.-
&re, l'MPing pain in the skin of the fhce, after washing and wiping.- Nocturnal
tearing stinging paitt in tAej~~ee. - liMing eruption, herpes and phagecbenic ul-
eel8 it& tlefta!e.- Pimples on the forehead.
Lips dry and l!lellly. - Bladders aad ulcers on the lips.-Canrinoma on thelips.
TbotMcl&e, moedy drawing, from walking in the open air, or in hollow teeth,
frotn eatiJtK cold liing& - 8hooting, jerking, gnawing, boring in cbe teeth. -
Bwellen, euggilated, bleedin« ~ms. ·
8\1'elling ofthe tongue. - Obl!trttc&ed speech.
Sore throat, as ifa round body were ascending from the scrobiculua cordi& -
Impeded swallowing.- Involuntory ftl6llotDing.- Walking in the wind occa-
aions mueh ewallowing.- <hmp• t. tie pluwynz.-Scratching in tbe tbroat.-
Hawk.ing.- loftamdllldon of the thJQat, with fever.
· Bittemess in the mouth and throa~ - Bread will not go dftll, it dON DOl
Digitized by Coogle
168 Conium~
reli8b. - Bulimia. - Longing for coft'ee or acids. - Sudden 88D8a&lon ofea&iety
and dietemion in tAe etomoch antl tJlHlomen tffter taking milk1 and during
meals. .
'
Jrequimt, loud, empty eructfltitm, all tAe day. - Ineffectual eructation with
aensation offulneM in the throat-pit. - EructGti«m tDith tAe (Illite qf whGt 1uu been
e~~~ten..-Heart-bum, aacending up in the throat, also after meals.-Sour r.egurgi~
tation after meals.
Nau.ea tDith ineliMtion to vomit, and. entire lou qf appetite. -- NaWJea after
f!fery meal - Nau.ea qfpregrw.nt women.
PreMure in the stomach, when eating.- Inftation of the stomach. - Contrac-
ting IJH""' in the 1tomtlch.-Soi'enees in the stomach.-Carcinoma in the stomach.
Pain in the hypoehonders, like the tension ofa constricting bandage. - Pres-
. sing, drawing, tearing and •tinging in the hepatic region. - Stitches in the left
hypochondrium.
Fulness of the abdomen, in the morning when awaking. - Swelling of the
mesenteric glands.- Oppressing contraction of the hypogastrium.- Colic-like
cramps in the abdomen.- Cutting stinging abdominal pains.- Wringing and
mooting in the umbilical region• .,... SemGtion of10rene11 in the abdomen,. when
· walking on flags.- Rumbling and grumbling· in the bowel&- Escape ofcold.
wind (with cutting in the bowels).
Conltipation with ine.ffectval effort•. _.:..Hard 1tooll, only every two days.-
. Purging, ur.dige1ted 1tooll, with belly-ache and much eructation.- Debilitating.
diarrlu!a.- Stitches in the anus.- Heat and burning in the rectum, during stool
and at other times.
Oppression on the bladder, as ifthe urine would immediately start out. _:. Fre-
quent, also involuatary urinating at night. - Flow of urine with great pain. -
Whitish turbid, thick urine.- Viscous slime in the urine, which escapes with
great pain. - Discharge of pus from the urethra.- Htematuria. - When urinat-.
ing, it suddenly stops, and flows again after a wbils. - Cutting in the urethra,
1Men preuing water. - Burning in the urethra, after urination.
&oeUing ofthe tuticle1, after a ·contusion.- Lustful concupiscence.- Impo-
tence and dejiciency of erection~. - Inetfeetual coition. - lmufficient, 1hort Con•
tinued rigour ofthe penii.-Slight seminal emission, with 'feak ereetion.-After
ooition, weakness. - Ezceslive 1eminal emilliom.
. Uterine cramp1, with a pinching, grasping pain, or with mooting over the
privy parts, accompanied by distention of the abdomen and stinging, extending to
the left side of the chest. - Itching on and in the pudenda. - Shooting in the
~a and pressing downwards.- Stitches in the labia externa. - Men.truation
roo early and too weak. - 8u.ppre11ed memtruation. - Before menstruation pains
iD the mammre.- During memtruation preeeing downwards and drawing in the
thigh; also painful abdominal cramp•,- Sterility, particularly tDith 1Uppresied
mente~.- Acrid, burning, excoriating leucorrhrea, preceded by cutting in the
bowel&
Excessive sneezing. - Troublesome sensatio~ of dryneM iR the nose. - Te·
cliotu ob1truction in both nostrill....... Stoppage olthe noee every morning.
Affection of the trachea.
Digitized by Coogle
Conium.- Copaiba. 169
Cotlgh from itehitag, crupttag an.tl.,otchitag in the throat.- Cough during
pregnaney and with 801'0phuloue compltiints. - Sutfoeating eough with ftusbee of
heat in the face. - lJnj tpomaodic cough. - Dry tickling cough.with oppreSsion
ofthe chest and evening-fever.- lloopitag-cough, with bloody expectoration, or
attacks in the night, all!o after measles.- Looee cough, but by which nothing is
expectorated. - Yellow, purulent expectoration with coughing, ofa putrid taste.
- Cw.gh vnth bloody ezpectorotion. - On lying down the cough is increased. -
With the cough, pain in the head or abdomen, or shooting in the left side, which
is aggravated by the touch.
Short breoth, when tDalking.- Tightne.. ofthe che.t, in the'morning, when
awaking~ - Oppression of breath, with pain in the chest, in the evening in bed.
-Suffocating attacks, 88 ifsomething were filling up the throat.
Stitche. in the che1t, the side or the 1ternum. - Jerks in the breast. - Ner-
vous inflammation of the lungs. - Palpitation of the heart, after drinking. - Fre-
quent percussions on the heart.- Caries on the sternum. - Inflammation of the
female breasts. - ln.tlth'ation ·of the mammary glow, after a blOtD or contmion,
with a stinging pain.-Flabby, desiccated female breasts.-Carcinoma in the brealt.
Pains in the small of the back, when bending backwards.- Squeezing and
contraction over the hips. - Pressing drawing 8p88M in the back. - Tension in
the nape. - Sensation of soreness in the lower cervical vertebne. - The neck
growing thick.
The rhoulder• paitiful, 01 ifinjuredfrom prenure. - Humid, crusty, burning
herpes on the fore-arm. - The hands deadened, especially the palms. - Stoeaf
on the palffll. - Torpor of the fingers. - Itching on the back of the fingers. -
Yellow spot8 on t1te fingers and yellow nails.·- Panaritia. ·
Drawing pain in the hips. - Straining, rending arthritic pain in the knee,
.worst when stepping on, or beginning to move after sitting, 88 ifthe tendons were
too short (with suppreeeed menses).- Weariness of the knees.- Painful swel-
ling of the thighs and feet. - Paitiful redtlilh blotche. on the calve•, 'afterward
becoming green or yellow, as after a blow or contusion, and impeding the move-
ment of the foot, which is erooked 88 by contraction ofthe tendons. - Coldness
·of the feet and greot liability ofthem to take cold. - Torpor and insensibility of
the teet. - Suppurating blisters on the feet. - Podagra.
66. Copaiba.
c.,.,.,. •f~a..lu. - BalM••• e-,fliN.
Duration ofeffect: 10-12 days.
Predominant effect.: Gutric ·complaints. - Hemorf''Af16u. - n__,,_w,-
Palpitation of the bean. - lilftamma&ory aKectiooa.
Nettle·rub.
Quotidian teYer, in the tbrellOOil, ehills and coldneas, then in the aAemooo
~neral beat with thin& for water. - During the fever-chilli, pU1 in the beck fll
• ., IJy rnmuc·
1~
Digitized by Coogle
' 170 Copaiba.- Corallia.
·~JiJWioD to vomit. - Colic-like rauli"B' in tAe .women, preceded by a draw-
ing in the thigb-boues.- Buruiag in Abe abdomeo.- Rumbling aad wrincing in
the bowel&
White purging ltooll, chiefly in the morning, accompanied by chills and draw·
ing-tearing belly-ache, which compels one to bend together. -:lnvoluntary stools.
Continual ineffectual e.ffom to •f"iMte. - The urine escaping by drops. -l.&eh-
ing biting and burning in the urethra, before aod after urinating.- Soreness in
the orifice of the urethra. - ~ioll, Nelling an4l enlcrgement oftM ~
ofthe urethra, with pulsating pains in the whole penis.- Yellow, purulent gleel.
Metrorrhogia.
67. Corallia.
Corallia rdra; lt/t 11nillt. - Bttltoral. - Germ. Botllolloralltlt.
Predominant e.ffecta: Soreness of the limbe, aftel- a liWe movement in the
open.air.
Smooth red spots on the skin.
The hot parts chilling, when uncovered.- To the symptome of heat .and cold,
artificial heat is very agreeable.- Fever-chills with .great thirst and pain in the
forehead. - Dry, internal and external heat, with a full, hardi.sh pulse.
Vehement gaping, frequent and following suddenly, with pain in the maxil·
lary joint.- Great, invincible drOUJrinell. - Anxious dreams and startling when
falling asleep. - Throwing about aod uncoveriqg in sleep. ·
Fretfulness and'bad humour.- Outrageous and cursing from pain&
Dizziness of the head, as after intoxication. - Confusion of the head, as ifit
were empty and hollow.- Intoxicated with only a little wine.
Preuing pains in the hetul, from the outward, which requires that the head be
moved here and there, and only abates by laying bare the burning hot body. - ·
Violent sick-headache, very much aggravated by sitting up.- Pains in the sinci-
put, as if it were pressed flat. - Exace~bation of the headache and congestion of
blood to the head and face, when bending forwards. - A sensation, as if wind
passed through the head, when it is quickly moved.- A sensation ofenlargement
of the head.
Pains in the eyes, as from a pressure into the orbit& - Sensation of sore-
ness in the eyes, when moving the eye·balls or lids. - Sense ofheat in the eyu,
when closing the lids, with an impression as ifthey swam in tears. - Burning in
the eyes from the light ofa candle.
Diminished hearing.
SweUing of one half of the no1e, with heat, pulsation, and sleeplessness.-
Paiof\tl-uleer in the nostrils. - Epistaxis, also at night.
. Heat in the face, increased by bending forwards.- Bruising pain in the zyp
matic bone, increased by the touch. - Wrenching pain in the maxillary joint,
when tilling and opening the mouth wide.- Ptririftd ~WeUing ofthe ~Uary
~·-Painfully cracked lips. ·
The fauces and throat very dry, with soreness when swallowing.
Digitized by Coogle
·-
Corallia.- Crocus. 171
TutelmneN offood. - Sweet taste of beer. - Longing fOr ttUnp acid Blld
llalt.- After eating, reeling 815 iffattdled.
Colll&ipation.
Clay-colored, buming urine with a clay-eolored sediment.
Strong perspiration on the genitals. - Swelling ofthe pneputium, with sore-
ness to the touch.-Baltmoblenorrllu (Eichekripper, a aeeretion ofmucus behind
the glans), with a yellowish-green, oft'eruive disc~.- Red, ftat uleers on the
glans'and the interior 81lJ'fhee ofthe preputium, discharging a yeDowish ichor.-
Seminal emission&
Excessive dryness of the n0111e. - Flowing.catarrh with an abundant secretion
ofodourlees, tallow -like slime.
Paj.nful cough, 88 ifa stone lay in the pleura and pressed it down.- With the
cough a yellow, purulent expectoration.
When breathing deep, Bemation qfcold11U1 in the orgam ofrupiration, with
difficult hawking up tlle bronchial slime. '
Pressing pain in the shoulder-blades, increased by coughing.- Rigour of the
nape.- Pain in the shouldel'-joint, 88 if the head of the os humeri were pres8ed
out. - Smooth, deep-red spots on the palm of the hand, and single fingers.
68. Crocus.
c,_,, '"*"'ori..,.,,.(~">·- &f-.- e-.B.,r• .
Duration qfeffect: several days.
Antidote: opium.
Prelmnincnt effect.: J"""f''ng ir& t~UMg pltlcea, a :fron& ~Illite.­
Chorea &mcti V'lti.- Sensation oflooeeness, and knackiug ofthe joint&- Nutnb-
fiUI of ringle limb•, at nigAt, in 1leep.- Relief in the open air; appearance of
many complaints at niglt, and e~ticerbGtion in the morning.- A,itation o(tbe
blood through the whole body. - HtBmorf'lwge of dift'erent organa. with Ncoul,
Wack blood. - HeavineM and soreneea of the limbe, after a slight movement.:-
RemtwluJhle ~ qftAe moll contrary bodily and merat4l ~P~toml. -Partie·
ularly suitable for ladies.
General exeessive weakness, withfainting~. when moving.- Great
'larittule in the morning.- Tremor ofall the limbs.
Scarlet-recfness of the whole body. - Chilblain~. - Suppurating, old iujuries.
Great drotDiine" in the daytime, particularly after meals, eometimea in the
evening.-Coma, with dull and glusy eyes.- Stinging, uyiDg and &tartling dur-
ing Bleep.- Frightful or merry, jocoee dreams.
Fever, with chills before heat.
Propen.Atg eoftldfle8•, frequently alt.ernating with great Ailrig ad~
- Great inclination to laughing, jesting and singing, frequently with great relax-
ation.- JOllial, comical intanity, with paleness of the filce, headache and obscura-
tion oflig'bt.- Rutricti,on oftil£~ IOill.-Fretfulvehemence and BD«<'7 irri&ation,
frequen&ly with immediate repentance.-Alternationofr¥owadaildaeaqftniM..
Forgeifulneu and abltractiol&. - Vivid· recollection.
Digitized by Coogle
,
172 Crocus.
Dull aft'ection ofthe bead, as ifintoxicated, wi&h djzzjn~ ofthe eyee.- Fllint-
neu.- Reeling giddin~ after rising fro~ lying do~
Headache ower the eyes, with burning and preaeing therein, panieularly in the
evening, from the light of the candle. - Heavineea ofthe head, in the morning,
with preeaure on the vertex. - DrtltDing pdin in tle forehetul, with nau.eea. -
Pulsation in one aide of the bead .lnd face. - 8/wcb in the forehead and temples.
-An imp~ as ifthe blain were loose, when moVing.
Itching in the eye-lid&- Creeping in the eye-brows.- Pressure, -me••
and burning in the eyes and lids, particularly when closing them and when readiug.
·- Sen.ation ofStDeUing in the eyes, 88 from much complaining. - Dryness of the
eyes. - Running ofthe eges, when reading. - The eyes closed by suppuration at
night. - Visible quivering ofthe lids. - Heaviness and spasmodic contraction o(
, the eye-lids.- Nocturnal IJIGim in the lidl.- Continual twinkling of the eyes.-
. Dilated pupils. - Continual inclination, to wipe the eyes. - DimsightedneiS u
through a veil, particularly in the evening, when reading by candle-light.- Pale-
red appearance of the paper, when reading.- Flushes.oflight before the eyes.
Spasmodic ear-ache.-Tingling in the ears, in the evening, after going to bed.
-Buzzing in the ears, with dysecoia, particularly when stooping.
Epista.:cis; viscid black blood being discharged, only from one nostril, so 88 to
cause fainting.
Earth-colored countenance,- Alternating redness and paleneSB of the face. -
Glowing heat in the fuce, particularly in the lJlOrning. - Cracked, rasped lips.
Scratching and IICraping sensation·in the mouth..- Collection of water in the
mouth. - White furred, moist tongue, with erect papill~e.
Sore throat, as if the uwl41 were elongated, or a plug in the pharynx, when
swallowing, and at other times.- Scratching and scraping sensation in the throat.
Taste nauseous, sourish-sweet.- Sweet or bitter taste within the throat.-
Continual thirst in the evening, with wambling, after drinki~g. - Anorexia, with
fulness after a small meal.
.Eructation of mere wind, in the morning, fasting. - Heart-lnwn after taking
well relir.hing food:
Flabbiness and uneasy seneation ofweakness in the pit ofthe stomllch.- Jump-
ing,.asfrom something alive, in the pit of the stomach.- Burning in the stomach•
...,.. Rumbling and agitation in the pit of the stomach.
The abdMnen ftdl and distended. - Colic-like belly-ache. - Pinching -in the
bowels, after drinking ·(water). - Belly -ache from taking cold. - Jttmping· in
the abdomen, as from something olive.- Shocks in the right hypochondrium.-
Sensation ofheaviness in the groin. ·
Itching and-crawling in the anus. - Dull stitohes near and over the anus.
Urging of the blood towards tilegenitals, as ifthe menseS would commence.
- Too frequent and too copious men.truation. -!Painful menstru11tion.-- AbM-fus.
- Metrorrhagia efter delivery. - Too profuse lochia. - ·Metrorrhagill witl\ di&-
charge ofa black, viscid blood. - Sterility.
)i'requent, vehement sneezing. - Coarae, rough voice, from mueh slime.
Vehernem, tlry, fotiguing cMJgh, very mueh relieved by putting th& hand OQ
the pit of the stomach.
Digitized by Coogle
Crocus.- Cuprum. 178
Difficult reqiration. - Inclination to breath deep, occuioned by a lleiUIBtion of
beavine~~~ about the heart. - When inlpiring, a &eDI&tion ofsulphuric vapor in
the throaL - O&Diive breath.
Stitches in the clleet, parti~ularly the Bides.- Jumping, u from 10mething
ulive, in the cheeL- Shooks in the chest, o~ruding breath.- Warinth rising
&o the heart, with anxiety and obstruction of breath, relieved by gaping.
Drawing in the small of the back, with pain in the groin. -· Sense ofatiilheas
in the throat, when moving.- External swelling of the throaL
Pain in the shoulder-joint, when moving the upper-arm, u vtf.e arm were
loo3e and dislocating. - Nurnbnen qfthe anM and haruh, with immobility, partic-
ularly at night, in sleep. - Mooting drawing through the fore-arms. - Heavi-
tu:.t mad toreneu qftkefore-armt, after a alight movemenL- Burning creeping
and straining in the points of the fingel'll, as from obstruction of blood, after walk-
ing in the open air. - Chilblain~ on the hand andjingert.
Sensstion of weakneas in the thighs, when Bitting. - Nocturnal tearing in the
leg, with reatleeaneas.- Soreneas of the calves.- Wearineee in the soles, with
burning and creeping. - Chilblain~ on the toet.
69. Cuprum.
Duration qfeffect: sometimes 20-00 days.
Antidote~: belladonna, calcia eulphuretum, cinchona, cocculue, dulcamara,
hydrargyrum, ipecacuanha. nux vomica. '
Uted M antidote after: aurwp.
It may precede: veratrum, and tueeeed• weU 4/kr it.
Predominant effect•: lerking or tearing rending in the limbe. - Pain~, M if
#woken or bruited, on many places, particularly in tl&e limbt and joints.- Pain in
the bone~..- Rheumatic pains.- MaRy paiWJ, especially the ,-uling paint, are
iRcreased by touching.- Concueaive pains, conveyed through the whole body.-
Painful throes or &hooks on different parte. - Inveterate, obstinate crmnpt ofall
kindl. -Convulaive laughing.-Vehement conwltionl with great exertion.-Con·
vulllivejerking, at night, in ileep. - Epilepticjiu. - CAorea &ncti Viti. - Gt~~­
lric oompl4intl IDith conwltionl. - A.U.tic cholera. - Jaundice. - Paralyllia.-
Periodical complaintt, appearing in groupt.
General lueitude and relaxation of the whele body.- Tediofur IOetlknelt. -
Consumption. - Exceasive tendemeas ofaU the eensea.
8cwJbioul erwpttmil. - Yetlow-ecaly herpes. -lnlH!terate tdoert. - Caries.
Profln~Nl tleep, with shooks andjerb through the body.
Chilla, after epileptic ita. - Conaumptive fevers. - Slow nervous fevers. -
CoW awe&&.- Profuse nisht-aweata.
Melaneboly, with attacks ofagony.- DiacouragemenL- Anxiety and weep-
m,, akema&in« with jeeting.- Alternation or meekneee and obstinacy. ~ Diein-
ciutioa te labour, with avenion te idleae111. - FiU of iuaity, with imqiaary
Digitized by Coogle
Cupnun.
bwliaeee, or jolly ~. or moroee maliee, D108tly attended., with a quick pulae,
~ iotamed eyes, bewildered look, and ncceeded by NeGt. - Furor.
Mental conftuion. - Abeence ofsense and thought. - Delirium.
GiddiDele when reading and looking at a height.- Vertwo, a if tie"-'
UJOUldfaUfontJGf'th.- SeDI!II.tion ofbollowness in the head.
Pain in the parietal bone, when touching it, so severe as to ca\llle crying. -
Soreness of the brain and orbits, when DlMing the eyes.- Moping deprarion in
tie Aeatl, Vlith ~ in lhe "-"rle:r.-Pressure in the tempJee increased by touch·
iog. - Drawing in the bead, with giddineeil, relieved by lying down.- Phre11itta.
External burning lltitches on,the side of the forehead, the temples and the ver·
tex. - Pain in the occiput and neck, when moving the head. - Swelling of the
head with a red face. - Distortion of the head, sidewards and backwuda.
Itching in the eyes, towards evening.- Pre~BUn in the eye• and lids, increaaed
by touch. - Red, inftamed, wild, staring eyes. - Di8tortion and wa~ motion
ofthe eye& - Protruded, glistering eyee: - Cloled eye1. - ID8ell8ible pupils. -
Obscuration ofeight.
Rending in the ears. - Hard pressure in the ears.
Strong congestion of blood towards the nose.
P.ale countenance, with sunken livid-bordered eyes. ...... Blueish countenanCe.
- Spcumodic diltortion ofthe face.- Anxious, sad features.
Blue lips. - Soreness of the upper-lip. - Pressure on the lower maxilla, in·
creased by touching. - Trismus.
Racking toothache, extending to the temples.
Much phlegm in the mouth, in the roorning.- Collection of water in the
mouth.- Froth from the mouth.-Burning in the mouth•.-..White slimy tongue.
-Shrieking,-like frogs croaking. - Los$ ofspeech.
Tate sweet, or coppery, or ealtish-sour.- Watery taste offood.- Appetite
more for cold, than for warm things. ,
Continual eructation.- Hiccupping.- Waterbrash after taking inilk.
Nilulea tenth inclination to vomit, from the hypogastrium extending to the pal-
ate, strongest in the pit of the stomach, with drunkenness, loathing and putrid
taste in the mouth. - Periodical, violent vomiting, ameliorated by drinking. -
Vomiting of bile, or water, or slime, also of blood.- Vehement vomiting ,with
pressure in the stomach, cramps in the abdomen, diorrhoul and convulsion~~.
Cramp in the stomach. - Excessive soreness in the stomach and the ecrobicu-
lus. - Hard pressure in the pit of the stomach, increased by touching.- Anxiety
in the pit of the stomach.
Pains in the hypochondres as if beaten, when touched. - Drawing fro~ the
left hypochondrium towards the hip.
Excessively painful beUy-ache, with great anxiety.- Tenee belly, with great
pains when touched. - Hard pressure in the abdomen, increased by touch. - Re-
tracted abdomen. --. Colic-like abdominal cramps, ,with conwultliontl and vehement
shrieking. - Fretting stinging ulcers in the intestines.
Costiveness, with great heat in the body. - Vehement, aJeo bloody Citm-IUBa.
- meeding piles.
Urging to urinate with a small discharge.- Frequeat discharge efan otleoaive,
Digitized by Coogle
Cuprum.- Curcas. · 175
\'iacid ·urine.- Buruing atiaging in the urethra, during urination and at other
times. - Urinating at night.
Swelling of the penis with infiammation of the glans.
BefOre menstruation, agitation of the blood, palpitation of the heart and head-
ache.
Obstruction of the nbse. - Strong flowing catarrh.
Continued hoarseness, with inclination to lie down.- Rattling in the bronchia,
as from phlegm.
Dry cough, with ob1truction ofbreath.- Hooping-cough.- Morning cough,
with a putrid expectoration. - Hremoptysil!l.
Quick, rattling, moaning respiration, with convulsive exertion of the abdominal
muscles.- Tightnei!S of the chest, when ascending an eminence and walking
quickly, with nclination to breath deep. - Spcumodic tightne11 of tke cke&t..-
Suffocating jit&;
Oppreseion of the cheat. - Painf,U contraction oftke ckest, particularly after
drinking.- Cramp• in the breut, which deprive one of voice and breath.- Pal-
pitation of the heart.
Swelling of the glands of the throat. - Sensation of heaviness in the axillary
·glands.
Herpes in the bend of the elbow. - Swelling of the hand, a lymphatic veesel
being in1lamed up to the shoulder.- Pressing and tearing in the metacarPal bones.
- Weakness and lameness ofthe hand. - Twitching in the banda, in the morn-
ing, after rising.- Numbness and shrinking oftbe fingers.
Pain in the legs, particularly the calv~, when at rest. - Tightening pain and
spasm in the calves. - Pre.ure and drawing in the metatarsal bones. - Burning
in the soles.- Foot-sweat. - Suppret!l!led foot-IIWeat.
10. Curcas.
Its effect seems to be ofa short duration.
Antidote•: opium1 vinum1
Paim in the limb• andjointl. - Convulsions. - Excessive general prostration
ofstrength.
Eruptions. - Tumefaction&. ..
Difficult rousing from sleep. - Perspiration in sleep.
General coldnei!S of the body. - Clammy sweats.
Great an:ciety.- Nocturnal anxiety, which constricts the chest and forbids
sleep until morning. - Easily abashed. · ·
Headache, succeeded by burning in the stomach, after that, vomiting, then
diarrhcea, and finally coldnees aDd shuddering.
External pain on the iOrehead and the right zygomatic bone.
Dryneas in the upper-part of the throat.
Continual natEea, with frequent spitting out aali~; tllirat with fear &o drink.
Digitized by Google
176 Curcas.- Cyclamen.
Vomiting ofwhat h88 been eaten.- Watery, albumitaOU .otniting, very euy
and in great quantity, with diarrhal8.
Anxiom burning in the •tlmulch. - Gastritis and enteritia.
Watery diarrhaa, u ifit 1'1Uhedfrom him. - Soft swelling of the pk
Sudden catarrh in the nose with sneezing, very copious secretion ofmucutl,
which soon becomes yellow.
Catarrh in the nose and hollow cough at night, ~ ifthe throat we~ obstrue'•
ted by swelling. - Short hacking cough. . ·
When coughing the expectorntion is very difficult, but by a slight cough some--
times a great quantity of phlegm is thrown up.
Spasmodic pains in the legs, with distortion of the calvee even as far u
the shin.
71. Cyclamen.
Predominant ifect•: Pressing drawing or tearing, pe.rtieularly where Che bonelf
are immediately covered by the skin. - When moving, all complaints subside,
except laseitude; but in sitting, many complaints arise.- Gastric complaints.-
Excessive weariness, particularly in the evening, with sorene1111 and stiffne!!ll of the
legs, and a drawing preBSure in the thighs and knees.
Fretting itching on different places of the skin, particularly when sitting. ~
lnbJkrably pricking itching, in the evening in bed.
Great inclination to lie down and •lumber.- Late sleep, in the evening,·with
l!ellSible pulsation in the brain.- Night-mare, after falling. asleep.
Fever-chills and coldness, succeeded by_a gradually increasing heat (without
thirst), particularly in the face, with redness increased after meals.- Evening·
chills with great sensibility to cold, without thirst; then anxiety with heat'in single
parts, as the back ofthe band and the nape, but not in the face.
Griefand alarmed conscience. - Peevishne&<t and iU humour with d1sinclina-
tion to speak.- Alternating aversion and desire to labour.
Alternating acuteness and weakness ofmemory.- Moping mental hebetude,
with inability to any work.
Giddiness when standing, as from a movement ofthe brain.
Stupefying headache with obscuration of sight. - TedioWJ shooting through
the brain, when stooping.- Stitches in the temples.
Itching stinging en the scalp, changing the place when scratching.
Eyes dull and deep seated. - Stinging in the eyes and lids. - Swellli1g of the
eyelid8. - Dilatedpupils. - Cloudy di1118ightedness. _
Drawing in the ear. - Diminished hearing, 88 from obet'ruction o( the ean.
J)Vective smeUing.
Sensation ofnumbness in the upper-lip, 88 nom ind\ll'Btion.
Dull drawing tootlHche, at night.-Arthritic stinging and boring in the teeth.
White furred tongue. - Continual rough slimy seD88tion in the mouth. -
Gt:e&& dryot!lllllt 011 the pala&e, in the evening, with hnger and thin&.
o,gitized by Google
.. . - .. --............. -.-.-.---.......
Cyclamen.- Dictamnus.- Digitalis. 177
. Putrid taate.- losipid tute of all food. - .!Mtle hunger IIJIIl appetite, partic-
ularly in the morning and evening. - Quick satiety and soon loatiing at the be-
ginning ofa meal.- Awer.um to bread and buUer and cold food.- After meals,
great sleepiness.
Frequent, empty and sourish eructation.- Hiccupping eructation, particularly
qfter meah.
Nauaea with inclination ta vomit, and wambling in the region of the stomach.
as after eating fut, after dinner and supper. - Water-brash, with nau.ea, partic-
ularly in the evening.
_ Pul1t.ess and pre88tU'e in the pit ofthe stomach, as from excess.- Uneasinees
in the hypogastrium, with nausea.- Painfulness ofthe hypogastrium by the least
touch. - Sudden attaeks of a pinching cutting abdominal pain. - Rumbling in
the abdomen, Un.mediately after meals. ·
· •Frequent bard stools. - Papeseent evacuations. - Drawing pressure on the
anus and perinamm, as from festering under the skin.
Frequent urging to urinate, and copious discharge of a whitish urine.- Stin-
ging in the urethra, when urinating.
----
Flowing catarrh with sneezing.
·Short breath in the evening, as from weakness. - Suffocating attacks.
Oppression of the chest, with difficult respiration. - Rending stitches in the
chest, with ·a short, oppressed respiration. - Pressure about the heart, as from
accumulation ofthe blood, with a perceptible heart-beating.
Stinging pains in the region of the kidneys. - Rasping sore pain on, and in
the neck. - Rheumatic disabling drawing or pressing in the nape, and on the
throat.
DiSabling hard pressure in the arms, extending to thefingers, which interrupts·
writing. - Drawing through the arm into the fingers. - Pain as from a blow or
bruise on the upper-arm. - Painful drawing on the inside of the.fibula and in ·
the wrist.- Crooking of the fingers.- Red vesicles on the finger-joints; after
vehement itching.
Spasmodic pain in the thighs.- Red blotches on the thighs as from gangrene.
-Much and vehement itching on the calves, ankles and toes.- Wrenching pain
in thefoot-joiRts.- Sensation ofsoreness in the toes when walking.- DeadnesrJ
ofthe toes, after walking. - Offensive sweat between the toes.
12. Dictamnus.
73. Digitalis.
Di11i~all• ,...,,wr••· - lf••·11l•••· - Germ. lfi"11•rhl.
]Juration ofeffect: about 50 days.
Antidotes: nux vomica, opium.
----
Digitized by Coogle
.
....
178 Digitalis.
Pretlomif&llnt e,Decu: Rending buroing 1titolel, mOIItly '" the liMN.- Pene-
trating pains and soreness in the joints, ss after a great fatigue. - .Artlaritil noeo...
- Glandular indurtJtiom.- Tight, painful tumefuction, especially of the limbe.-
Gastric complaints. - Jaundice. - Cganom.- Convulsions. - Epileptic fits•..._
Droplical 1tate ofinternal organs. - Apoplexia serosa.- Great luritude Gnd ner-
110UI weakneu.-Q.uick,faintish prostration otstrength, with general perspiratien.
Blueness of the whole skin. - Fretting itching, increased to an intolerable
burning pricking, when not scratching. - The cuticle peeling oft:
Diurnal sleepiness and coma, interrupted by convulsive auaeb of vomiting.-
Restless night-slumber with half coD8Ciousness.- Interrupted night-1leep, with
anxious dreams and startling.
Coldnus oftlae body, frequently with cold perspiration, particularly on the fore-
head. - Coldneu ofthe 1uuuh and feet.- Frequently sudden overftowing warmth,
succeeded by weakness.- Profiue night-I'Uieatl, which follow shuddering or
chills in the afternoon, with internal heat.- Gaatric, bilious, worm-, or slow
nervous fevers. - SmaD, weak, or e:~:ceuitely •loaD pulle, which Ia aceelerated by
the least movement.
Great an:J:iety, particularly in the evening, tDitA inclination ID IDhine, Gnd great
fearful apprelaemion about futurity.,- Anguish ofconscience. - Lamentinc me-
lancholy, with an internal morbid sensation. - Indifference and listlessneee.-
Great desire to work.
Weakness ofmemory.- Nocturnal delirium end restleeBoeaa.
Dizziness.- Gitldinu1 with trembling.
Jerking prusure in the (fore-) head, particularly with mental exertion.-Tight-
ness in the forehead, when moving the eyes. - Rending in the tempi~ and &idea
of the head. - Stinging in and on the temples, and t1aeforehead. -Internal itch-
ing on one side of the head. - When stooping a sensation, a.1 if tlae brain wmdd
fall forward&. - Bubbling in the brain as from water, with dizziness. Hydro-
cephalus internus.
Swelling of the head.- The head continuallyfalling back1Dord8.
Pressure in the eyes, excessively increased when touched.- Burning and
pressure in the eye-brow, with diminished sight.- ITlflammation ofthe eyes, aleo
with gouty and scrophulous individuals.- Inflammation of the meibomian gland&.
-Biting running of the eyes.- The eyes cemented, with copious secretion of
matter. - Inclination to turn the eyes sidewards. - Insensible dilated pupils. -
Amaurosis.- Pseudopsia. -Appearances, figures and colours before the eyes.-
AU object• appear green and yelloui.-Sparks before the eyes.
Straining constricting pain in the ears.-Swelling of the parotis.
Paleneu oftlaeface.- Blue lip• and eye-lids.-Convulsions on one side ofthe
fiu:e. - Spasm and drawing pain a~ut the zygomatic bone. - Swelling of the
cheek painful to the touch. - Fretting itching eruption on the cheek ~nd chin.-
Black, suppurating pores in the face.
Swelling ofthe lips.- Eruption on the lips.
Mouth, fauces and pharynx rough, raw and itching, with a slimy taste.-
BGliva sweetilh and offensive. - Salivation, with soreness of the tongue and the
gums.- Blue t(IRJfue.- Ulcer on the tongue.
Digitized by Coogle
..
Digitalis. 179
Tute in the mouth, u from IWeet almonds, parNcu1arly afterliiDOking tobeeco.
- Bittemeu in the moutla. - Bitter tute of bread. - Anorem, with a clean
toDgUe. - Thirllt, particularly for eonr liquid& - Great inclinotion to bitter food.
- After meals, preeeure and distention in the abdomen and stomach.
Sonr eructation and regurgitation, a1eo after meal&- Heart-bum.
Natuetl, fllith inclination to 110mit, dejection and timidity. - Con't"Uieive vomi-
tnrition.-Vomiting with lulneee and prei!Sure in the pit of the stomach.- Vomit·
ing at night or in the morning.- Vomiting of1lime and food, or of bile, with ex-
eeeeive nausea.
Cardialgia, with retraction ofthe stomach. - Preeeure, burning and burden·
eome heavineee in the stomach and scrobiculus. - Cramps in the stomach. -
&nlation ofweakne11 in the 1tomach, 41 iflife would be e:rtinguilhed. .
Constricting tightneee in the hypoehondres. - Stitches in t.he ~gion of the
kidney&
Alcitn. - Spasmodic pinching twisting sensation in the bowel& - Rentling
or eringing pain in the bowels, with inclination to vomit, particular1y when moving
and espiriug.- Cutting belly-ache, 88 from taking cold, or from diarrhrea.-
8tagnat.ion of blood in the abdomen. - T".ghtneas and equeezing in the inguinal
region.- Flatulency.
Wlite or IUA-colored ~tool.. - F~ diarrhma tDith •lime, a&!r cbilla and
cutting in the bowels.- Dysenteric diarrbma. -Involuntary stool&
1Utention ofurine. - A-iotu, almoet ineffectual effort to urinme, and a ""Y
...all di«harge ofllot, bumtn.g urine, a1eo with gonorrhma.-Dijflcult urinating,
88 from constriction ofthe urethra. -Urinating at night.- Flow of urine.-ln-
Toluntwy urination.-Dm-k, red, brown urine.- Nausea before and after urinat-
ing.- During urination, burning and contraction in the urethra. - l'fffammation
ofthe bladder- (cystitie).
Bruising pain in the tellhelea. - SweUing ofthe te1ticlu. -Hydrocele.-Very
excited sexual paasion, with many erections and seminal emissions.
Hoar1eneU, and catarrh in the nose, in the morning.- Much phlegm in the
larynx. wbieh is looeened by hawking.- Angina pectoris.
Cough after eating, with vomiting ofwhat has been eaten.- Dry cough, with
pain in the ebouJdel'B and arma.-Dry spasmodie cough excited by talking much.
- Blootly expectoration vnth the cougla. •
Painful tightne11 ofthe che1t, at night, 10hen lying, and in the daytime, when
sitting. - Suffocating constriction of the chest, which compels one to sit up, in
the morning.
Preeeure on the cheat, when mting bent. - Straining on the cheat, with in-
clination to breathe deep.-Contraeting pain in the chest, when bending·forward.
- Hydrothoraz. - Congestion of blood to the breast. - 11&Cf'eated acti11ity ofthe
heart, with audible beating, attended with anxiety, and contraction in the sternum.
-Shivering over the breasts.
Pain in the back and sacral resiGn, dnwiog as after taking cold.- 8orenef!8
in the sma11 of the back, when blowing the nose. - Stitlheas and tension in the
muecJes ofthe throat IIDd nape.
Disabling rending in the IU'ID8. - Nocturnal swelling of the right band and
Digitized by Coogle
180 Digitalis.- Drosera.
.ingen. - Coltlmn ofthe lumth. - Tearing in the 6n89r·joints. - Sudden di&-
abing sti.ftbess oftbe fingers.- Numbness and easily sleeping ofthe fingers.
Chronic ischia.- Exeel!ll!ive stifthess of the legs after sitting, which abates
when walking. - Powerle88De118 and disabling weakness ofthe legs. - Cutting
pain in the thigh, and burning in the calf of the leg, when putting one leg over
an«her. - Tension in the bend of&he knee. - ColdMu ofthefeet.
7.4. Drosera.
D'?'atro rolwrttlifolio.- Sorrt- tl••·- Germ. s.,.,.,,.tA••·
Duration qf effect: 6, 7 days.
Antidote: camphors.
Predominant effects: Gnawing stinging in the hollow bones of the arms and
legs, particularly stro~ in tl&e joints, with vehement stitches, more when at rest,
than when moving. - Painfully stinging pressure in the muscles (of the limbe),
constantly the same in any position.- 8orene11, nternal painjtdne11 and disability
in aU the limbs. - WeAkness in the whole body, with sunken eyes and cheeks.-
The most complaints seem to arise in the morning and in warmtA.
Snoring in sleep and lying on the back. - · Frequent starting in sleep. - Noc-
turnal awaking from the beginning of perspiration.
FeveHhivering over the body, with beet in the face, ice-cold bands and thirst·
lessness.- Intermittent fever with nauseotl8 inclination to trOmit. - Tertian inter-
mittent fever; chills with headache and lying down.
Dejection about imaginary offences.- Anxiety, particularly when alone, with
fear.- Restlessness, which fOrbids the retaining one object long together.-Solici-
tude about futurity.- Discouragement.- Propensity to commit suicide by drown-
ing.- Pertinacity in maintaining a well considered eonclWJion.
Painful dizziness, from talking vehemently. - Giddiness when walking in the
open air, which occasions falling to the left side.
Preuing headache, particularly in the foreh~ and zygomatic bones from in-
side outwards, with nausea and stupefaction. - &wene11 ofthe scalp.
Stinging in the eyes from inside outwards, particularly when stooping.·-
Vanishing ofsight, or running together ofthe le~ters, when reading.- Presbyopia.
-The eyes d~ed from the candle- and day-light.
ILemorrhagia from the nose and mouth.
· Paleness of the thee with sunken eyes and cheek& - Pricking btU'Ding in the
akin ofthe cheek below the eyes.- Cracked dry lips.
Shooting tooth-eche; after drinking warm liquids.
Ulcers on the tongue.
Thirst.- Tastelessness offood. - Bitter taste of bread.
Bitter eructation. -,Frequent hiccupping.
Water-bruh.- Vomiting at nigllt aa4 after dinner.- Vomiting ofbile, in the
morning.- H1Bmatemetis. , •
Stinging and throbbing in the pit ofthe stomach.- Pain in the h)'pOChondree,
.when t.ouehiag arid cougbin!.
Digitized by Coogle
Drosera.- Dulcamara.
'Frequent mleU8tion of bloody slime, with cuu.ing in the bowels.
Frequent urging &o urinate, with small di&oharge, often only by drops.
Flowing catarrh with meeziug.
181
Oruping in tle ~arynt~:, with irrita&ion &o cough, an4 pricking down to the
ali!Ophagu& - SeiU!Iltion as if a soft body were located in the larynx. - &JugA.
scraping •enNtiora •f dryneu, deep in the faUC61, wif.h irritation to cough. -
Hoar•enes& and deep bau-"'ce. - Tedious eatarrluJ.- lnftammation of the
larynx. - Plathiril laryngea, and tracllealil. - Croup.
Tedious coogh and hoar~~mess, aliiO qfter measlu. - Cough proceeding deep
from the breast, with pain in the chest and the hypoohondres, which is alleviatt>d
by pl"e811ing them with the hand. - BeUowing cough. - Coogh, at night, and in
tlte euening, immediately after lying doUin.- Hooping-cough.- Dry llpGIIfliOdic
cough, with wmiturition..- Cough, in the IDOI'tling, with a bitter, nauseous ex-
pectoration. - Cottgh, tDith a bloody purulent expectoration. and atinging in the
upper-part of the chest.- Phthisill pulmonalis punden.ta acute;
Tiglatneu of tile cllelt, a eeuation 811 if the throat were contracted, t.ohen
t~peoking. - Oppreesion of the chest, as if•omething &topped the voice, t.ohencough-
ing or speaking, so that breath could not be expired.
Pain in tile back, as ifbeaten.- Stiffnes of the neck, with pain when moving.
The jointl of tlt.
e arm~~ and lumds ache, as ifbeaten. - Spasm and torpidity of
the fingers when grasping.
The hip-joint and thigh ache 811 iflame, when walking, which oecuionslimp-
ing. - Cutting stinging in the legs. - Rending in the foot·joints as ift.orenched,
only when walking.- Torpidity and rigidity in the foot-joints.
15. Dulcamara.
Duration. ofeffect: 20-30 days.
AmiJote&: camphors, hydrargyrum metallicum, ipecacuanha.
Ufttl1111 antidotefor: cuprum.
It IJJIIWI!TI t.oell ofter: hydrargyrum metallicum.
Predotninant e.ffeeu: Stinging drawing.or tearing pains in the limbs, partie·
u1arly after tcking.cold. -~Disorder& arising from taking cold in general. - The
&ymptom& ezacerbated, particularly in the evening, or at niglat, and when at rest;
relieffrom exe~ise. - Excessive aeeretions and excretions of the mucous mem-
branes. - -St.oelling and induration. ofthe glands. - SerophuJous complaints. -
Emaciation. - Cold swellings. - Dropsical n~Jelling&, of internal organa and the
whole body, the limbe and the &ce. - Stulden llt.Delling ofthe t.ohole body. - PtJO
raly.U of the limbs. - Great weariness.- Ililleues following degenerate measles.
l>r)?less and heat of the skiD.----' Nettle-rash.- Eruption of vesiclu, with a
yellowish watery duid.- Eruptions, which suddenly appear after taking cold. -
Dry, furfuraceous, scaling, or 11Uppurating, humid herpu•.- Herpetic acurfover
the whole body. - Herpetic eruption with glandular sweUing. - Waru.
16
•
Digiti~ed by Coogle
182 Dulcamara.
Great 1leepinen in tle ~· - Reatl.- night·sleep, &om htlat.and jerb,
particularly after midnight.- A ~ lerJ early.
In the evening frequently cbillineM alld eoldnees, which continues even neat
a warm stove.- Fever-chill8 at first, then burning heat with moping headache,
red face, burning beat on the palttte and inextinguiebable thirst for cold liquids.-
Dry heat and bur11ing in the kin, with delirium and tbiret. - Hard, teue pullle.
-Pitoitouftflef', after telriflg cold.- Gentf'dl pertpirlltion, particularly at night.
-Offensive perspiration, with diacharge of much urine.
Imernal restleune11. - Great impatience. - Inclination to qllllJ'rel, without
fretfulnee~~. - Nocturnal deliria, with increued pains.
Great dullnees in the head, 88 ifa board were before the forehead.
Preeeing moping headache, only on single spots. - Boring and burning in the
forehead, with agitation from inside outwards.
Congestion ofblood to the head, with buzzing in the t'IU'S, and dysecoia.-Sen·
sation in the occiput, 88 ifit were enlarged.
PreMore in the eyes, particularly when reecling.- Sensation, u if fire were
sparkling from the eyea. - Inflammation of the eyes, also with IICI'Ophulous per-
SOD&- Twitching of the eyelids, in cold air. - Amaut'Oiil.- ,Sparb befOre the
eyes.
Spasm in the ears, at night, with nauses, or after taking cold.
Epistaris with very warm, bright-red blood, attended with prelllling pain over
the nose.
Paleness of the face with a circumscribed redness of the cheeks.- Eruption in
the face. - Orulta lactea. - Twitching of the lips, in cold air.- Swelling of the
submaxillary gland&.
Stomacace, after taking cold.- Salivption. - Dryfte11 ofthe t.ongue. - Para-
lym ofthe tongue. - Obstructed speaking.
Pain in the throat 88 from elongation of the uvula, with a pressing sensation.
- Burning heat on the palate.- Inflammation of the throat, particularly. after
laking cold.
Taste insipid, soapy. - Vehement thirst for cold liquids, mostly with dryness
of the tongue, with augmented saliva.- Hunger, with aversion to all food. -
After a moderate meal, distention in the abdomen and the pit of the stomach.
Nausea, and vomiting ofa viscous phlegm.
Pressure in the stomach, extending to the breast.- Conatriction in the
stomach, which causes obstruction of the breath.- Retraction of the pit of the
stomach, with a burning pain.
· Abdominal pain in the umbilical region. - Stinging, pinching and cutting abota
the navel. - Cr~ping, gnawiiig an9 griping in the abdomen, 88 from a worm. -
BeUy-ache, from taking cold. - Ascitea.- Swelling of the inguinal glands.
Costiveness. - Diarrluza after a cold, with abdominal pains. - Dillrrbaia of
pregnant and confined women. - Green, slimy diarrh«a. -Tedious bloody diar-
rbma, with biting in the anus. - Nocturnal watery summer-diarrhrea, wi&h colic.
Retention of urine. - Inooluntary urination, from paralysis of the bladder. .....
Condensation of the bladder and stricture of the urethra. - Difficult urination,
the water paasing by drops. - Scanty, offensive urine. - The urine, while being
Digitize; by Coogle
'
Dulcamara. - Epeit·a. 183
dit!ebarged, clear and viscid, becomes afterwallda turbicl and finally again clear,
and deposit.e a 1limy sediment. - Catarrh of the·bladder. - Discharge ofslime
&om the urethra. - Gonorrbtaa 8eCUildaria. '
Herpes on the geny.Je.
Increalled and protracted menstruation.- Sterility.- Herpetic eruption on
the labia pudendorum.
Gravedo (stoppage in the head), increaeed in cold air.
Inveterate catarrh of the trachea and lungs.
Cough with hoarsenees.- Hooping-cough ilfter taking cold, excited by breath-
ing deep.- Moist cough.- Cough, with expectoration of bright-red blood.-
Phthim pituit01a.- Phthisis pulmonalill purulenta.
Strong oppre11ion of the r;helt, particularly when inspiring and expiring.-
Dull 1titchu, like shocks, in both sides of the chest.- Intense, undulating pain
in the left aide of the chest.- Hydrothorax. - Strong, externally perceptible pa\-
pitation of the heart, at night..- Suppressed secretion of milk ofconfined women,
after taking cold.
Mooting stinging, vehement pain in tl&e lumbar region, above the hip, mostly
when at rest.- Stinging and prearure in the back and arms, mostly at night,
when at rest.- Sttffnell in tl&e nape. - SweUing of tl&e jugular glandl.
Lamene11 of the arm~, wit)) ice-coldness, u from apoplexy.- Disabling pain
in the ann, as from contusion, mostly when at rest.- Wart.e on the arm&-
Herpetic eruption and tDarll on the lumdl.- Perspiration ofthe palmi ofthe latmdl.
Drawing tearing in the legs, particularly the thighs. - Bloatedness and tUJDe.
mction of the legs, down to the feet. - Burning in the feet and toes.
76. Epeira.
E,1lra Dia4...... - A~•••• 41•4-•. Liu..- Creu-•,tm (1H6).- Qe... .l[u..,,.........
Antidote: hydrargyrum.
Predominant ~~~: DuU mooting pain. in tle booet, in all parte of the body,
particmlarly in the upper- and fure-arms and in the heel-bone.- Relaxation and
wearifiUI, ltlith thir1t. - The complaint~ daily recurring at the same hour, tile
, an intermittent fever.- H~hage, from lllmoBt all openings ofthe body, and
.from tDaUrW.
Reetle8s sleep, with frequent awaking.- A leDII8tion at night, aa jf the fore-
arms and hands were excessively enlarged.and heavy.
Ff!tlerilh dilortkr1, mostly cou.sisting in cold. - Tllir1t, during the fever, and
almost with all complaint&
Preaiug dizzineM ofthe bead, relieved by 1~ of the head. - Pain in the
forehesd, diminished by mwking to6acco in the opea tlir.
Burning heat in theface, on the forel&ead and t'a the eye..
· Au intense sensation of coldut!IB in the teeth (the Uaoilore), daiiJ at tbe I8Die
· hour.' ·
Digitized by Coogle
184 Epeira.- Euphorbium.
Bitter iaste, relieved by 1101oking tobacco.
Abdominal pains, ~h shuddering towards evening.- Fuln8118 and heavine&s
in the hypogastrium, as if a stone were lying in it, with a 88D88tion ofilabbineas
in the pit ofthe stomach.- Clucking in the abdomen, and heavinea in the thlghs.
daily at the same hour.
Thin-liquid intermittent stool, discharg6d only with exertion, attended with
'abdominal pains, which are relieved by rubbing the belly.
Metrorrhagia.
Catarrh,. with thirst.
77. Euphorbium.
E11pli.or6la offlciu,.,.. - Sp11rg•. - Gena. Wol(o.,TcTt.
Duration ofeffect: about 50 days.
Antidotes: camphora, citricum acidum.
It anBWers well after: belladonn~.
Pre&onrinant effects: Rheumatic, rending or pressing shooting puins in the
limbs, mostly when at rest, and relieved by motion. - Stinging and tightening
pains in the musc.es........ Burning pains on different parts of the body, particularly
in theinterior organs.-Complaints from the misuse_of mercury.- Diseases o/ine
m11C0tt8 membranes. - Cariu. - Disabling weakness in the joints, wjth difficult
rising from sitting. -ExcesSive relaxation and wearineas. - :Sy rest, especially
sitting, and by tooching the most complaints are.increased.
Burning, biting itching, wh-ich compels one to scratch.- Scarlet-red streaks
on the skin.- Wearisome cutaneous eruptions.- Furuncles. -IntJeterate, in-
dolent ulcers.- Sphacelus.-Warts. ·
Sleepiness in the daytime, with much gaping.- Lethargic slumber in the day-
time.- Difficult falling asle.ep, in the eveuing, with tremor and jerks.- Frequent
awaking.
Shuddering and deficiency of'IJitalheat,particularlywith affections ofthe interior
organs. -Chills, when beginning to eat.- Chilly shivering, with coldness of the-
hands and beat ofthe cheeks, without tbirst.-Moruing-sweats with heat, without
thirat.
Anxious solicitude.-Silent gravity.- Great desire to work.
·•
Vertigo, so as to cause one to full sidewards.
Stinging, pressing headache. - Brv.mng pain in the oecipttt. ~ Erysipelatous
inilammation of the e:~~;ternal head.
· Inflammation ofthe eyes, wit~ itching and dryness in the lids ami the canthi.-
Wearisome intlammation ofthe eyf'S. - Running ofcorrositJe tears, and suppura-
tion of tbe eyes cit niglit. - Mueh mucus secreted in the canthi. -Opacity of the ,
cornea.- Dimsightedness.- Myopia.- Diplopia.
Otalgis in the open air.
·In the noee a suffocating biting, extending to the brain, with a eopioua dis--
. ebarge ofmucus.
Euphorbium.--. Euphrasia. 185
Erytipelot0tt1 nt~elling qf tAe cheek, lllitA a ~h m~ptim& oftiUicla, and
boring mooting paine.~ White swelling of the cheeks.- Burning in the filce.
Toothache, IIIith «Jnurittg-ihooting, or serewing· pain, iRCrea.ed bg.t~Aing
and mtl8ticating; or at the eom~encement ofa meal, with chills and pain in the
head, and the zygomatic bones.- Cnunblittg oftke teeth.
Dryness in the month, ~ithout thil'l!t.- Salivation tDitA 1hivering, inelinatibn
to vomit and griping in the stomach.- Saltish saliva.
Burning from tAe pharynz down to the stomach, with heat, anxiety, tremor
and water·bl'llSh. - Oesophagitis.
Taste insipid, rancid, bitter. -Vehement thirat for cold liquid&- Vacant
eructation.- Hiccupping.
The stomach aching as ifbeaten.- The stomach flabby hanging down, with
collapsed abdomen. - Contractt"ng cr:amp in the stomach. - Grasping and raffing
in the stomach.- Burning in the stomach.imd the scrobiculus.- Gastritis.
Constiingent pain in the abdomen. - Spasmodic flatulent colic, with paim
preuing asunder or upwards, mostly relieved by bending the head towards the
knee. - Sensation of emptiness in the abdomen. - Burning in the abdomen. .-...
Tearing in the groins, as from spraining.
Urging to stool, with itching on the anus.- Pape1cent purging 1tool6 with
tenermur, burning in the anus, and sensation ofsoreness in the abdomen.
Urging to urinate with a small difficylt discharge, only by drop1.- Uretbror-
rhagia.
Tearing stinging on the glans.- Voluptuous itching on the pneputitim.-
Tearing in the testicles.- Burning on the scrotum.- Continual erections, tDithout
roluptuoume.s.- Escape ofthe prostatic fluid.
Much sneezing, without catarrh.
Dry, hollow cough, from a burning tickling in the trachea and the chest.-
Dry cough, day and night, as from short breath, attended with copious expecto-
ration in the morning.
TightneBS ofthe chest and abort breath, with 1tretching pain in the pectoral
JQuaeles. - Spasmodic pressing asunder of the chest.- A 88W!8tion, .as ifone lobe
cif the lungs were grown. fa~t. - Preasure in the pectoral muscles. - Preesing
stitches in the ~<ternum.- Stitches in the left side of the chest, when at rest,
·relieved by motion.- B'llf'ning in tke olaut.
In the dorsal vertebne a 8J188D1odic pain, in the mornin~ in bed, when lying
on the beck.- Perspiration Oil the neck.
Disabling tightnea in the shoulder-joints, when at reet, relieved by walkin~.
- Scarlet-red streaks on the foJ'&o8l'IDS, itching when touched.- Squeezing draw-
ing on the hand, after writing.
Pain in the hip, a1 from tM'enching....:.. Buruing in the 01t filmoria, at night.-'
GmJt wesknu1 in the kg..- Contraction of the toea.
I
78. Euphrasia.
ll•,.ruie o{lri~~t~lu.- Br-·6ripl.- Cl~ra. .bf•lllroll.
.Duration ofeffect: about 20 days.
Antidote: pulaatilla1
Digitized by Coogle
186 Euphrasia.
Chat •kepiMII i" the ~, as ifori8inating in the eyee.-Vehement gap-
ing, when walking in the open air.- Vehement etitchea, here and there, whieh
prevent llleep.- Dreadful dream~~ and frequently awaking with fright.
Prevailing ehilline88.- Profllllt' night-sweat&
Reae"ed quietude and avenion to speak. - Hypoehondric incllil'erence. -
81~ - - -
The head muddlecl and aching a ifbeaten, in the evening, with exacerbation
when lying down.
Pressing heodacle, tDitA plwtoplaobW and heat, particularly on the forehead.-
Stinging on the templet! and the forehead.
Pre811Are in the eye1. - Biting in the eyee. - lttflammotion of tlu ~eye•, al8o
with newborn. ilifants and •crophulmu per10m. --.lflftammotion of the cornea.-
lntlammation and ulcerat~ ofthe edge• ofthe lith, with headache. - Cicatrized
ulcers and specb in the cornea. - Vehement running of biting tears, so as to
cause blindness. - Copious secretion ofmucu•from the eyes and lith. - Comprett-
»ion of the lids. - Contraction of the eyes and lids, which occuione twinkling.-
The light appeara more dark, and wavering.- Photophobia.
Otalgia ofa presing kind in the region of the tympanum.
Suppurating pimples on the wings of the noee.
Torpor in the cheeks, wheq. talking and maeticating, with sensatiOn of heat
and a stinging pain.- Stinging in the lower marilla and on the chia.
Stammering and frequent interruption in ~peaking.
Tooth-ache in &he lower teeth, shooting paine. - Strong bleeding of the guiDI!I.
Insipid taete.- Nausea and bitterness in the mouth, after amoking tobacco.-
. Eructation, with the taste ofwhat has been eaten.
Griping in the abdomen, with 1h0'1t attacks. - Burning pre81ing cramping
obliquely over the abdomen.
Hard, insufficient stool.
Frequent dilcAarge ofa copious, bright urine.
Spasmodic retraction of the genitale, in the evening, in bed.-Voluptuous,
pricking, itching on the glans and the pneputium.- Condylomata. - Formi·
cation in the teeticlee, which are drawn up.
Vehementjlowing catarrh, with a copious secretion oj'II1UJ1U. exeetlllively mud-
dW head and biting tears running from the eyes.
, Cough, particularly in the daytime, with a diJiicult expectorabml. .:.... Cough,
with obstruction ofbreath.- Momiag-COUB"l. with e~ctorGtioa of.uclaphlegm,
aDd Bowing catarrh.
Dyspnoea, even when sitting.
Pressing, ~pain in tire back.
Numbness in ilie arms and hands. - Prelling 8Jl88lllOdie pain in the bands
and fingers.
Stinging in the legs, when at rest.-Tightoe1!8, u from shortening of the ~­
doo81 in the bend ofthe knee and the tendo Aebilli&, when walking.- 8ensa&ioll
ofheavine1111 and 1pa1711odic pain in the cal1161, when etandiDg for a long wbile.
o,gitized by Google
-·
Evonymus.- Ferrum. 187
79. Evonymus.
PredomiMnt effect•: Drawing •tinging pa'im. - The complaints compel_one
to lie .down, after which they subside, or at )east change the place.-Aft.er dinner
.particularly, the dilorder1 in the breut, head and abdomen increue.
Creeping in the skin, which compels one to scratch, succeeded by buming.-
Eruption of Bmall, dry pmttde1.
Chil1s and ehivering, aU over the body.
An.riety about the heart, as from an interior oppression.- Fretful, morosd
peevilhneu, with dirinclination to labour.
TluJughtleBBneU.
Vertigo, when sitting.
Frequent vehement llitchu in the head. - Sensation, as if a nail were forced
sidewards into the vertex.- Stupefying preBBUre upon the arche• ofthe eye-brow•,
which 1ee1111 to compreu the eye-baU.. - Headache, with chills. - Tightness in
the integuments of the forehead, with a convulsive distraction ofthem.
Opacity ofright, likefog, and black •poll before the eyu.
Buzzing in the ears. ·
Rending in the (left) side ofthe face.- Sharp ~titche• in the ~yg01111Jtic bone.-
Disabling pain in the zygomatic bone.
Vehement 1titche• in the 1crpbicular reg~ - Cutting and eoiU!triction in the
hypogastrium, as ifthe body below the ribs were cut oft
IncliMtion to deep breathing, from tightness and sensation of fulness on the
breast.
Drawing and eoncutient, stupefying stitche1 in the region of the nipples. -
The whole thorax as if compressed.- Semation in the breut, u ifit were in-
jured and beaten. - Sharp 1titches below the rib• of the right side. - Small pus-
tules on the breast, without pus.
Formication in the left halfofthe back,- Stinging on the left ride ofthe Bpine.
- Sma11 dry pustules on the back.
Mooting tearing in the •houlder1.- Disabling pain in the fingers.
Disabling drawing and stinging in the region of the hip. - Dilabling pain in.
.the knees, which makes walking and standing difficult.
80. Ferrum.
Duration qfeffect: 6-7 weeks.
Antidotes: arnica, an. acid., belladonna,- ealcis trulphuretum, cinchona, hydrar-
gyrum, ipecacuanha, pulllatilla, veratrum.
It v_
Uiefl a cmtidotefor: anJen. acid., cinchona, thea.
Digitized by Coogle
188 Ferrum.
Predominant ejfect1: Arthritic complaints, with vehement tearing and ltinging,
particularly at night, with inclination to move the parte affected:- Yarice1.-
Dilorder•from misuse of cinchcma and excessive tea-drinking.- Chlorotic affec~
tions.- Dropsical swellings with stinging therein. - Worm-complaint•.- · Agi-
tation qf the blood and lunnorrhages. - The most complaintl appear at night, are
exacerbated by sitting, and relieved by a slight motion.
. General great laslitude and weakneBI, excited even by speaking and frequently
alternating with anxious trembling of the whole body.- Emaciation.- Exhau•
tion, approaching syncope, from walking in the open air, with opacity of sight
and buzzing in the head. -;- Great inclination to lie down.
Burning spots on the !!kin, smarting as ifexcoriated, when touched.
Great drowsinesB, with restleBS night-Bleep, anXiOUS tossing about, much dream•
ing and difficult falling.asleep again, after awaking.- Late sleep, in the evening.
-Halfopen eyes in sleep.- Inability, to sleep on the side.
Frequent short shiverings.- Shaking chills in the evening, with chilliness in
bed, all night. - Agitation of the blood in the daytime, with heat in the evening,
particularly on the hands. - Intermittent fevers, also after misuse of cinchona,
with congestion of blood to the head, bloatedness about the eyes, distention of the
veins, vomiting of food, short breath and disabling weakness.- Easy, proftUe
perBpiration, when ererciBing, and in 1leep.- Clammy, running sweat. ·
Anxiety, with thrubbing about the pit of the stomach. - ·Quarrel!ome dispo-
sition. - Alternation of merriment and sadness, every ~ther day.
The head muddled and beavy.-Giddiness, so as to cause one to falftorwards,
or as.when riding in a carriage.- Staggering and vertigo, from looking at run•
ning water. "
Headache on the vertex of a pressing kind, from cool open air. - DizzineE
and headache above the root of the nose, in the evening. - Drawing from the
nape into the head, succeeded by stinging, buzzing, and roaring in the head. -
Periodical hammering, throbbing headache, every 2 or 3 weeks, which makes it
necessary to lie down. - Congestion ofblood to the head.
The Bcalp smarting, as if bruited. - The hair falling off, in quantitiell, with
painfulness when touched.
. The eyes dim, weak and run~ing, particularly after a light exertion (viz.: writ-
ing). - Red eyes, with burning in them. - Ophthalmitis scrophulosa.- Swelling
and redness ofthe lids, with a sty.
Buzzing in the ears, relieved by laying the head on the table.
Epistaxis, particularly from one nostril.
The face earth-colored, or pale, emaciated, with sunken eyes.- Fiiry ~ed
/ace.- Yellow or blue spots in the face. - The face bloated about the eyes.-
Pale lips.
Premng pain in the throat, when &Wallowing. - H~tysil.
Taste sweetish, as after blood.- Bitter taste of food. - After every meal,
eructation and regurgitation of what has been eaten, even when it had been re-
lished.- Vomiting, after taking any thing sour.- Always after eating and drink·
ing, pru.ure in the Btomach and abdomen.-Beer rises to the head, or causes vom-
iting.
Digitized by Coogle
Ferrum. 189
Nausea,.with inclination to vomit, during meals.- Vomiting ofwhat ha8 bee.
eaten, particularly at night, or imme(,iiately at\er meals. - Sour vomiting.
PreaBUre in the ttomach, at\er eating meat. - Spa811lodic pain in the stomach.
- Premng cramp in the 3tomach, after eating and drinking.
Distension ofthe abdomen.- Abdominal cramps.- Nocturnal.ftatuleRt colic.
-Painful heaviness in the hypogastrium, when walking.
Wattry, acrid, purging 3too4, which excoriate the anus, sometimes with spas-
modic pains in the bowels; back, and anus.- llndigested purging stool3.-Slimy.
evacuation. - Ascaridea. - Blind and bleeding htemorrhoids.
Excited sexual passion, with many erections, and seminal emissions.
Metrorrhagia, with great irritation of the circulGtion of blood, fiery red eoun-
tenallee, and a copious discharge of blood, now liquid and then black-clotty, with
pang-like pains in the loins and abdomen.- Before menstruation, shooting head-
ache and ti.ogling in the ears.- Sterility. - Abortm. - Milky, excoriating leu-
corrhrea.
Hoarseaeas and roughness of the larynx.-: Tickling in the trachea, with great
irritation to cough.
Cough, only when moving and walking.- Purulent expectoration, with the
<:ougb. - PhthUis pul~u purulenta acuta.- Greenish, blood-streaked, putrid
expectoration. - Coughing up blood at night, with increased tightness of the
.cheaL
TightneBB of breath, with an almost imperceptible motion of the chest, and
great. enlargement of the nostrils, when expiring....... Tightr,ess ofthe che3t, par-
ticularly in the eveniJlg, or at night, as if originating in the pit of the stomach,
worst when at .rest, and relieved by mental or bodily employment.- Suffocating
attacks, in the evt~lling in bed, with burni,og on the neck, and upper-part of the
body, with t'oldness of the extremities.
Oppre1Bion of the chest, as if comtricted. - Contraciing spasm in the chest,
increased ,by walking or motion. - Tightening, stinging in the cheat, extending
to the shoulder-blades.- Congestion of blood to the breast.- Palpitation of the
he~. · I
Teqring .between tl&s 1houlder-blades, at night. - Stinging in the shoulder-
blades, when moving the arms.- Stiffness in the eervi.eal muscles, with pain
when ruoved. - ~wollen jugular glands.
Stinging and rending in the shoulder-joint and upper-arm, so that the arm
cannot be raised.- DiBabli~g, drqwing, a~d heaviness in the arm.- Restlessness
in the arms. - The hands swollen and peeling off. - Spasm and torpor in tbe
fingers.
Tearing with vehement 1titchea, from the hip-joint to the thigh-bone, worst in
the evening and at night, when at rest. - Disabling pain and numbness in the
thighs. ..._ Wealmees of the knees, not mr from sinking together. - Reetlessnesa
in the kl).eea. - Varice.on the legs. - Stiflheas, drawing and J,eavineu in tl&sleg•.
- Swellin8 ofthe knee.jointa, feet, and foot-joints. - Spasm in the calves, solea
and toes.
Digitized by Coogle
190 Ferri oxydum magneticum.
81. Ferri oxydum magneticu~1.
oe... M•flld•fri•.
Some ofthe pains, and the itching, reappear after 4 weeks. - DiMirtlff•from
travelling onfoot, viz.: thirst, perspiration, wearinees, pale countenance.- Sting-
ing shooting\ pricking nnd itching on di1Ferent pa118.
Infirmity, difficult movement, relaxed mlll!Cles.- Disabling beal"ineN.-Tre-
mor of the arlll8 and legs.- After perspiration, during a moderllte walk in the
afternoon, weakneBB and lassitude, u if an.ing from the obdomtn, tremor ofthe
knees nnd hands; fatigued from walking up and down in the room.
Itching and pricking on different places, also about the nipples, on the abdomen
&e., abated.frotn acratching, but reappearing on other 8pOIB. -Itching on difterent
spots, every ev~ning. - Fretting itching between the tendo Acbillis and the ex-
ternal ankle, succeeded by a red painful streak. - Red 1p0ta on the lower ribs,
above and below the bend of the elbow, on the wri6t, the ball of the thumb, of the
size ofa lentil, which momentarily disappear when pressed upon. - Red burning
spots on the inside ofthe thigh, where the scrotum lies on. - Blueish-red spots in
the region of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger, not disappearing from pre.
sure. - Spots resembling summer-freckles, on the back of the hand and the fin-
gers.- Many small warts on the back of the left hand and the wrm.- The skin
of the hands on different plaeea peeling off.
Gaping, with strong expiration, and collection of water in the mouth.-Sleepi-
ness, hefalh asleep when lying and Bitting. -'Absurd dreams at night, he awakes
with perspiration and heat, at 3 o'clock in the morning.- Dreaming immediately
after going to bed, sudden awaking and chilly shivering; after which a Tery -eound
sleep. - O.n awaking, the right arm ~ver the head. - lnelination to stay in bed,
in the morning.-After rising, weariness in the knees.- Unrefieshed &om sleep,
pressure in the eyes, muddled head, flabby skin of the tace, weary arms.
Chilly shivering along the left side, upon which he does not lie. - Chilliness
on the left side of the breast.- Chilline88 in damp weather.- After walking:
warmth, with weakness originating from the stomach, tremor, dizzinei!IS, pale coun-
tenance, inclination to lie down. - Warmth as if a catarrh were developing itself,
with weariness, sunken countenance. ...,..Internal heat, with perspiration and slow
pulse, after washing the body.- Pulse slow and soft.- Perspiration, with the
least exercise.- Morning-perspiration, particularly on the body and occiput.-
Sourish smelling perspiration, as in measles.
Irresolute; he considers for a long time, before he commences any thing. -
Sluggish, not so speedy 118 commonly, more tranquil.-Walking along with a self.
sufficient impression of importance. - Fretful. - Hopeful, with hilarity and con-
fidence in the future.
Intermittent, throbbing headache. - Headache on a small spot, partietilaJ'ly in
the forenoon, and more on the right side. - Headache, when stooping; exertinl
the arms azad ascending steps. - Headache suddenly movea to the eyea and noee,
as if tears and sneezing would follow.
Itching, small painful eruptions, small crusts on the head.- The hair falling off.
Cloudineas before the right eye, which causes twinkling.- A small oval cirel•
Digitized by Coogle
Ferri oxydum magneticum. 191
with rainbow.ooloura ~round the candle. - Pain, as from 8 prel!lllure, on the eye-
lid, which prevents l!leeing. - The lower lid swollen, and the eye smaller frOm it.
- Stinging itching.in the canthi.-Sorene81!1 in the lachrymal caruncles, succeeded
by water running from the eyes.
Drawing in the ear and larynx when swallowing.- Stinging in the external
mr.- Throbbing in the ear-flap. -Itching, cramping and cool shooting in the
6Uditory pa888ge. - Tingling in the ears. - Pinching and shooting, deep in the
ears.
&tnkm countenGme, with general warmth, and succeeded by redneBB ofthe
face. - Heat in the fitce. - Itching and pricking in the face, and on the lips.-
EfBoreecence on the forehead, in the eye-brows, on the root ofthe nose, the cheeks,
Hpe. and chin. '
The gum8 easily bleeding when pressed upon. - The teeth easily set on edge.
-Tenderness of the teeth, when masticating.
Collection ofwater and saliva in the mouth.
An itchingsensation behind, on the palate. -Bitter rancid taste in the pharynx,
when hawking. -A sensation as ifphlegm adhered to the uvula.- Stinging in
the right side ofthe throat. - Pressure in the resophagus, as ifhe had swallowed
· too much at once.
During meals, flatulency, movement and croacking in the abdomen. - After
meals, taciturnity, self-reflection, weariness, heat, discharge of wind, pain in the
region of the stomach and anxiety, pains in the epigastrium, particularly when
inspiring, urging to stool and diarrbt:ea. - Ineffectual eructation.- Nausea.
Uneasil1ees in the abdomen.- All disorders of the abdomen are felt particularly
in the left side.-The pains extending from the abdomen to the breast, particularly
:the left side.- Rumbling, rolling, grumbling, croacking, and whistling in the
:abdomen, with eecape of wind, and urging to evacuate and urinate; the rumbling
in the abdomen, connected with a drawing through the legs down to the toes.-
'The wind seems to come all from one and the I!Bme spot, in the left side of the ab-
domen. ·
Sudien, or strong urging to evacuate, with contraction of the scrotum, and
eructation.- &rong urging to atool, but voiding only wind.- Much o.ffmaive
teind (with the stench of rotten eggs) e•caping, Boon after meala. - Immediately
after dinner, urging to atool with chiUiJ~eN, preceded by discharge ofwind, then
stinking diarrhreic evacuation, weariness, and pale sunken countenance. - The
fieces discharged in short, abrupt, softand lubricatE-d pieces ofa round shape, after-
wards diarrhrea.- Purging stools, accompanied with discharge ofwind, and suc-
ceeded by rumb~ and rolling in the abdomen, as when water is poured out from
a bottle. - With a discharged wind some watery purging stool escapes.
Itching over, and in the anus. - Stitches in the anus. - Creeping and itching
in the rectum. ' ·
Much ~ urine, ·wbich ~rnes clay-colored, when remaining for 8 while.
Itching and stingiQg on the mons veneris, scrotum, and the point ofthe glans.
- Strong sexual passion, with and without erections. - Defective irritation and
.inclination to cohabit, without however bE-ing impotent.
Sudclen priCkling iu the right nostril, which produces shakiDg and IIIICieZillg.--
o,gitized by Google
192 Ferri oxydum magneticum.- Filix mas.- Graphites.
SneeZing, with obstruction of the right nostril, catarrh. - After a thrust in the
nose with the finger, at ()Dee (about 12 drope) blood falls out.
Easily hawking out phlegm from the choanis and the trachea.- Dry cough
from irritation in the trachea, as from dust in the larynx; after dinner; when
washing himself.
Tearing stinging in the left side of the breast, from the fore· side to the back-
side, and from the upper to the lower part, only when expiring. - Free in
the chest. - When strongly distending the thorax and retracting the right arm,
the heart beats strongly and in short strokes. - In the morning, pain in the neck,
as from lying improperly.
Rheumatic and minutely pricking pains in the shoulder-blade, stinging, when
inspiring.- Drawing disabling pains in the right upper-arm. - Wrenching pain
in the elbow.- Pressure between the hollow-bones of the fore-arm. - .Spasmodic
drawing and acute pressure in the fore-arm. - The wrist aches as if wrenched,
when bent. - Intermittent spasmodic pain on the ulnar-side, and in the ball of
the thumb of the right hand.-Intermittent drawing, frequently as ifin the bones,
in the right hand, in the wrist, the thumb, through the metaCarpus into the fore-
finger.-Minute pricking, particularly· in the joints and the pointsofthe finger&-
Throbbing in the point of the thumb.- Pain in a panaritium, on the little finger.
- Dryness and tightness in the hands.- When stretching the upper4rm for-
wards, sudden heat flies over the hand. - Burning near a golden ring.on the fore-
finger.
Straining pressure in the right hip-joint, when drawing up the thigh, at.night
and in the morning; the pains disappear when. lying on that side, ·but reappear,
when lying on the left. - Minute, sharp, itching stinging in the left thigh. -
Sharp stinging in the knee. - In the morning, spasm and tightness in the calfof
the leg. - Painful stiffnes on the inner side of the right knee, particularly when
bending, after stretching out the leg, and only when walking on the street. -ln .
the evening in bed, the foot on a small spot over an extensor very painful, when
touched and bent upwards. - When steppiDg out in walking, a sensation in the
back of the foot, -as if the boot were too tight. - Ganglion on the back of the foot.
-Wrenching pain in the foot-j<tint.- A drawing pinching, from one ankle to
the other. - Creeping and stinging in the heelS. - Tickling in the sole. - Sting-:
i.ng in the big toe, which produceS twitching. - The little toe aching as ifhard
pressed.
82. Filix mas.
A.,.i~i•• {1/U. •dr.- M~le f-. - Ge1111. ,.,.n.
Wqnn-fever.- Tamils. - Sterility.
83. Graphites.
Plua6•1•· ~ Blccl-leu.- G-..Jkin•lft.
Duration qfeffect: about 50 days.
Antidota: Arsen. '~, nux vom., vinwn.
Digitized by Coogle
Graphites.
u.ed 48 an antidotejO'I': Arsen. acid.
It a.nswers weU after: lycopodium.
193
PredomiMnt. effects: Spasmodic pains, cramp and incurvation qf single ports.
- Tightness .on different places, ae from shortening of the tendons. - Twitching
and distortion of the limbs.- Arthritic drawing and tearing in the limbs and the
joiqts, particularly in parts which suffer under ulceration. -Arthritic nodes.-
Easily injured from lifting any thing. - Numbne11 qf single ports. - Stitlbess
and inflexibility of the joints. - Hard swelling, with stinging pains.- Pains are
felt during sleep. -The complaints disappefr after walking in the open air.-
Chlorotic complaints.- Varices, with stinging, tightness and itching.- Hard
glandular tumefactions.- Pains, appearing'with the change of the weather. •
General exhaustion, which makes one moan, without any distinct sensation of
pain.- Strong pulsation in the entire body, increased by every movement, partic-
ularly about t~e heart. - Drawing through the whole body, with inclination to
stretch and tum.- Tremulons sensation through the whole body, with twitching
in all the limbs.- Excessive meagerneiB, particularly after previous administering
of lycopodium.- Easily taking cold, and great aversion to the open air 1Uld draft
ofair.
Tedious dryne11 ofthe skin and deficient perspiration. - Summer-freckles. -
Red ~ts on the skin, resembling flea-bites.- Erysipelatous infiammations.-
Moist eruptions and herpes. - Impetigo, with an acrid ichor. - Crusty tetters,
itching in the evening and at night.- Cystic tumours. - Phagedtmic bladders. -
Galling, and excoriated spots, particularly with children.- The skin tlffficul.t to be
healed. - Proud flesh and stinking pus in ulcers, attended with tearing; burning
and stinging therein.- Thick, crippled nails.
Excessive sleepiness in the daytime, and early in the evening. - Difficult fall-
ing asleep.- Restless night-sleep, with frequent awaking.- Unrefreshing sleep
at night, and dizzy in the morning. - Many and sorrowful reflections at nighl-
Nocturnal reveries, with anxious, dreadful dream~.- At night, griping in tJte
sto~ach and agitation in the chesl
Chills, in the morning and evening, with or without heat and subsequent per-
spiration.- Frequently an offensive perspirationfrom the least motion or exerti~n,
even from speaking.- Night-SUJeats, also.offensive.
Dej(lCtien, sadness and Jespairing grief, with mUch weeping.-Oppreesion and
&nxiety, as ifdying, or likefear ofa calamity. - Anxiou.t restle..ne11, also when
sitting and at work, or at night, he cannot stay in bed.- Anriety in the morning.
- Slow resolution, and hesitation.- Great ·irritability, and liability to be frigh-
tened.- Fretfulness.- Aversion to labour.
Mental abstraction.- Forgetfulness.- Misapplying words and miswriting.
Fatigued from mental labour. - Sensation of numbness in the head. - Be-
toildered, in the morning, when rising.
Attacks of hemicrania, with nausea and sour vomits.- Vehement morni11g-
headache, driving out cold P.lr&piration and causing syncope.- Headache when
travelling in a carriage, when moving the head, and during and after meals.-
Headache on that side, on which one lies.-Pffi!Sing constriction and tightne11 in
I
'
17
Digitized by Coogle
•
194 Graphites.
t1e occiput, with stiffnees of the neck. - Contracting dizzinees in the fi:Jrehead. -
'compressing pain in the vertex, in the afternoon, with rolling in the head.-
Agitation ofthe blood, with throbbing and humming in the head.
Drawing aud W,ring, externally in the ecalp, in the teeth and the 8'1anda of
the throat. - ltol!ing on the BCalp.- Oozing, BCUrj'y tinea. - Perepiration on the
head, when walking in the open air.- Many scales on the hairy part of the head.
-The hair becoming gray andfaUing out, et1en on the rides ofthe hetld.
The eye-lids heavy, 88 ifpa1sied, and fulling down.- Prusure in the eyes and
litll, 88 from a grain of sand. - Biting and stinging in the eyu. - Heat and
burning in the eyes, particularly in the evening, from candle-light.-I'lftammmion
of the eyes, with rednees, swelling, and a copious secretion of mucus f~m the
· lids.- Hordeolum, with a drawing pain.- Dry pus in the lids and IBBhes. - The
eyes closed by suppuration, and running. - Darkening before the eyes, when
stooping.- Myopia. ._The letters running together, when reading. -Glittering
before the eyes.- PhotopMbia; in the daytime.
Hissing in the ears. - Stinging·and throbbing in the ears. - lkynen of the
internal ear.- Offensive smell, and discharge of blood and pus from tbe ear.-
Scabs, tetters, oozing arid galling behind the ears.- Dysecoia, relieved by riding
in a carriage.- Singing, tingling, humming and thundering in the ears. -Roar·
ing in the ears, at night.- Sounding in the ear, 88 if air were penetrating into
the Eustachian tube.
Swelling of the nose.-Straining sensation in the interior of the nOBe.-Black
pores on the nose.- Dry scabs and scurfs in the no.e.- Sore, cracked, ulcerated
nostrils. - Offensive stench out of the nose. - Blood discharged when blowing
the nose,' and epistaxis, particularly in the evening and at night, with congestion
of the blood to the head, and heat in the fuce.- Stinking pus running from the
nose.- Too delica'te smell. (Hyperosmia.) •
Pale-yellow countenance, with livid circles around the eyes. - Flushes of heat
in the face: - Erysipelatous inflammation, and swelling of the face. -Tumor
cysticus on the chee~- Continual sensation, 88 ifa spider-web were in the fuce.
- The facial muscles paralyzed and distorted on one.side, with difficult speecl!--
Tearing and drawing pain in the bones of the fuce.- Eruption in the face, like
rawness of the skin. - Scabs and moist efflorescence in the face. - Summer-
freckles.
The internal sur:{
ace ofthe.lips ulcerated. -Ulcerated angles of the mouth.-
Sore, cracked lips.- Scur:fy eruptions on the chtn altd abOut the mouth.- Painful
nodes on the lower maxilla. - Hard swelling of the submaxillary glands.
Tooth-ache, at night, or in the evening in bed, incre&Bed by .wannth, with
heat in the fuce and swelling of the cheek.-The teeth aching, when compressed.
-Drawing and stinging tooth-ache, particularly after cold drinking. - Soreness
of the teeth and gums, during, and particularly after meals.- The gums BtDOllen
and e&Bily bleeding.- Black, sour blood from the teeth.
Dry mouth, in the morning.- Putrid; urine-like taste in the mouth, from the
gums and through the nose.- Soreness, vesicles and ulcers on the tongue.- Ef-
flux of much Sllliva, and much phlegm in the fuuces and throat.
Sore throat, when swallowing, mostly stinging, with choking.- Pain in the
throat, at night, 88 from a plug, or 88 if the food 1illed the whole a!80phagus.-
. DigitizedbyGoogle
Graphites. 195
Oramp in the throat, whleh occaaiODS choking. - Roughneee and itching •em•
tion in the throat.
Taste bitter, or sour, with soumef!ll in the mouth and throat. - Strong thirst,
in the morning and after m8ala.-Ezculive hunger.-At~erlion to cooked victuall
and meat.- Weak d~ution, with eleepineM, headache, pain in the stomach, ful-
DeiB and clUtention qf the 1tomacA, after meall. . '
Frequent, also ineffectual erucl4tion.- Sour eructation, with a bitter taste in
the mouth. - Sour regurgitation of food. - Green, bitterish regurgitation. -
Much hiccupping, particularly after meals.
NatuJea, chiefly in the morning, or after every meal, with inclination to vomit.
-Water-brash, at night.- TedioUIJ vomiting of what has been eaten, or after
every little loa&hing, with great nausea and griping in the bowels. - Choking
with slime.
PrBfiiUre in the .iomach, with vomiting, relieved by lying down, and warmth
of the bed. - Cramp in the 1tomach. - Griping and rafting ·in the stomach. -
Burning in the stomach, which compels one to eat. • ·
Tightness, stinging and throbbing in the hypoohondrea.- Pains in the liver,
after breakfast, which make& lying down neceeeary.
FulneM and heavinu1 in the abdomen.-Tumid, tense, inflated abdomen.-
Nocturnal cramp in all the bowels, with defective secretion ofurine.-Obl!truction
and accumulation of wind in the abdomen. - Exceslive dilcharge of stinking
wind, preceded by griping in the bowels. - Soreness of the inguina. - Painful
swelling ofthe inguinal glands.
Conltipation, sometimes tedious, with co.tivenu~ and bardD.e88 in the hepatic
region.-Hard, knotty, too thick shaped, insufficient stooL - For a long time, the
stool too soft. -Sourish-putrid smelling, or bloody slimy stools.- Diarrhrea.with
a tense belly.- Very thin formed B&ool, as elender as a worm.- Discharge of
elime from the rectum. - Lumbrici and ascarides. - T~enia. - Itching, soreneM
and swelling of the a0us. - Great hti!Jfll0f'f'hoid4l tumour•, with soreness, after.
stool.- Burning cracks between the hlemorrholdal tumours.
Anxious and painful urging to urinate, the urine only discharged by drops.-
Dioiinished secretion ofa dark urine, which soon becomes turbid, and·deposits a
white or reddish sediment. - Acrid, sourish smelling urine. - Thin stream of
urine, as from a stricture ofthe urethra.- Involuntary urination, allo at n~ht.­
When urinating, pains in the os coccygia.
Tightness and cramping pain in the genitals, with tormenting wanton thoughts.
- Efilorescence on the pmputium and penis. - Oedematous affection of the pr~e­
putium.- Hydrocele.- Voluptuous irritation in the genitals.- Indifferent, or
e:rcuri'lle 1exual pulion.-Absenee oferections in the morning.- No semen dis-
charged during coition.·- During the irritation of the genitals, flatulent colic.
Vesicles and pimples on the female privy partll. - GaUing on the putbmda and
between the thigha.- Paiiunl swelling of the ovaria.- Bearing down in the geqi-
tala.- 8uppre11ed merutnuztion. - Meutruation too late, in too Bmall a quantity
tmd too pale, _. The first lllellltruation breaks forth w"h difficnslty. - With the
eomme~ement of the meDBell, cutting in the bowels. -During menstruation,
cramps and vehement e11tting in the abdomen, headache, nausea, pains in the
cbe~K, weakne811, clillcharge of blood from the anua, pains in the limbs, and
o,gitized by Google
196 Grapbites.- Gratiola.
exacerbation ofuleers.-White, thin leucorrlwN,ltle INter, with a tense beHy.-
8terility1DitA rettt.rded memf:nultion.
Obstruction and troubleeome dryness of the noee. - Daily catarrh, when get-
ting eold.- Grow®, with headache and oaUIIea, whieh makea it neeeeeary to
lie down. - Di6cAarge of a fhin or yellowish thick muc:u~ from tAe RO«, with a
putrid stench.- Running of the noee, with catarrh.
Tenderness of the larynx. - Catarrhal roughnel!l'l and hoarseness, with raw-
ness; burning and itching in the 'Wrytlz and affection of the chest. - Hukg
voice.- Accumulalio~ ofslime in the breast.
Cough, from roughness in the throat.- Cough, at night or in the evening in
bed, excited from deep breathing, with oppression of the chest.
. Tightness and oppression of the cheet. - Nocturnal .u.lfocating fiu, when
falling asleep.
Pain in the chest, when ascending an eminence, riding on horseback, gaping
and when touched. - Squeezing, pressing. pain in the chest. - Cramp in the
breast.- Stitches in the breast, with the least motioft.- Palpitation ofthe heart.
with every motion. - Painful tenderness and ..orenes1 ofthe nipple•, .with oozing
vesicles on them.- Induration and swelling of the mammary glands. .·
Pain in the back "' ifbeaten, or griping and wringing. -Contracting pain in
the back.-Fonnication in the back.- Stiffiless of the neck. - Vehement pain ia
the neck and the shoulders, when bending the head f~rwards and raising the
arms, like rasping and cutting.- Boils on the neck.- Swollen jugular glands.
Tearing and stinging in the shoulders.-Sensation ofa eontraction in the bend
of the elbow, when stretching the arm. - Spasm and tearing in the bands.-
Emaciation of the hands.- Erysipelas, horn-like weals, harsh skin, and rhagades
on the hands.-Wrenching pain in the joint of the thumb. - Swelling, unwieldi-
ness, stiffiless and crooking ofthe finger•.- Minute eruption, phagedlllnic blad·
ders, and arthritic node• on the finger•.- Herpetic fretting between tAe finger•.-
Thick finger-nails.
The legs heavy, livid and torpid, iJ? the open air.- Galling between the thighl.
-Arthritic rending in the hip-joints, feet and toes.- Torpor t~nd •tijfnen ofthe
thighl and toeB.- Restlessness in the )egs.- Herpe1 on the thighl, in the bend of
the knee and on the shin. - Sensation, as if the tentlonB of the bend of the knee
and the tendo Achillis tDere ilwrt~d. - Straining in the varices, when stretching
out the legs.- Stiffiless and unwieldineBI ofthe knee•, which prevents bending.-
Spasm and twitching of the muscles in the calvea - Congestion of blood to the
legs and feet, when standing. - Ulcers on the thighs. - 8weUing ofthe legs and
feet, with induration and stinging pains.-.Stiffness oftbe.fOot-joint.- Stinging
ulcerous pain in the heels and soles, when rising from sitting. - Coldnell! ofthe
feet, also in the e11ening in bed.- Burning of the feet.- Stinking foot-sweat.-
Swelling and crooking of the toe1. - Hom-like Bkin, phagedamic b'WdderB, and
ulcers on the toe&.- Herpetic fretting between the toe~.- Thick, crippled nail~ oa
the toeB.
Digitized by Coogle
Gratiola. 197
8.4. Gratiola.
~nant effects: Tearing in the limbe. - Teumus with- clear coueioUifo
ness.- Hysteric and hypoc/londritlc cmapltlinu.- The mtnt eomplainu appear at
niKht, or in sitting, and ·after rising from sitting, likewise in the open air, and are
relieved from touching. ·
Itching; with burning after 11Cl'8tehing.-ltoh-like, oozing, corroding eruptions.
Great sle,epineiB, with frequent gaping and inclination· to lie down, chiefty
in the qfternoon.
Great tendency to chilliness. •
Hypochcmdriac peei/UhneN and· ill humor. - Hysteric Ctlpnu. - Anxiety.-
Grave reservednese.- Great loquacity and jollity.
Vertigo, when closing the eyea.- Giddiness when readiDg and in sitting, 88 if
the head were moved here and there. '
Headache, with'incllnation to vomit· and sleepiness.- Sensation offulness in
the head. - Pressing headache, particularly in the forehead and occiput. -
Stinging or throbbing head!'che.-A eeruiation, 88 ifthe head were grown smaller,
ae from contraction of the brain. - Vibration in the head, with vanishing ofsight
and hearing. - The headache is inereaeed when rising from sitting, when exer-
cising and in the open air.
Itching and quivering in the eye-lids, with sensation ofweakneee.-Burning
and pressure in the ege..-The eyea running and weak, when reading.-MyopitJ,
when reading. ·
Tearing and stinging in the ears.
Tighteuing and creeping semation of BtDeUing in the ftM:e. - Tearing in one
side of the fuee.- Burning heat and redness oftheftM:e.
Rending or boring in the molar-teeth, at night.-,Sensation ofcoldness in the
teeth.
Collection ofmuch lliliva in the mouth.
Pressure in the throot, 88 froUl solid phlegm. - Increaeed colleetion ofphlegm
in the throat.- Creeping roughnetJII and itching in the throat.
Papeseent or bitter taste in the mouth.-Otreneive stench from the mouth, in
tbe morning after awaking.
Sweet or bit~ eructation.- lnetfeetual eftbrts to eructate, with a pressure
&om the stomach up to the throat, which obstructa breathing.- &gurgitation of
a bitur fluid.- Hunger with loathing and aver1Um ofaUfood.- Increased thirst.
Continual1&6Weo.- Nawtea with coldness in the etomaeh.- Vomiting, with
obetruCtion of the nose.- Bitterish-sour, or bilious tKWIIiting.
Unlllllliness and semation offvlness in the stomoch. - PresiU'fe in the 1tomtJeh,
qfter ~Mall, with naU8e8. - Mooting and grubbing in the etomach, with inclina-
tion to vomit.- After meals, pressure in the pit of the stomach, 88 from a stone.
--The complaints in the ttontGCh 11M scro~Jicqlus are commonly attended Vlith nau-
.ea, or on ineffectual effort to enu:tate. .
&inging abdominal painl. - Tbrobbing in the region of the abort ribs of the
- 'eft side. - PreNing abdominal pains, Vlith JUJUBetJ and inclination to 110fftit. -
Digitized by Coogle
198 Gratiola.- Guajacum.
Gripiug pains in the bowels, which make bending together nece.u-y.- Hard
flatulent disteDIIion of the abdomen. - Preuing flatulent colic, tDit1 ftGUie4, awl
an o.ffemive eructation. - Hypoclumdriac diMJrder• ofthe abdomen.
Ineffectual eODrta &o s&ooL - CouttpGtion. - Hard, ~, 60lid 6tool, cli8-
charged with great exertiun. - Nocturnal slimy diarrhcea, with teneBDW& ..,;_
Soren1!81J in the rectum. - Burning in the rectum, duritW tmd 4fter •tooL -
Stinging, itching, rasping and throbbing in the anus.- Blind piJee.
Dil:nil)ished urine. - Reddi&h urine, which becomes turbid from lltaDdin« and
deposits a cloudy sedimenL
Stinging from the IIJI8rmatic cord up into the cheaL - After noc•umal seminal
emissions, a painful rigidity of the penis.
The meDIIe8 too early and protracted.- Nymphomania ofCOftllned tDOmea.
Frequent sneezing, with stinging in the left Bide and region of the hypochon•
dres.- Ob6truction ofthe 1106e.
Dry cougli, from a eeD88tion of roughneM in the chest, particularly in the
morning-or at nigh~- Night-cough, with 10renes8 in tht> trachea, oppra.ion of
the cheat and chilline-. -
Obstruction of breath, when ascending a hilL- Oppreuion of the chut, wi&b
palpitation of the heart. '
Preuure in the chut.....,-Stinging in the Bides ofthe breast, when inspiring. -
Stinging in the mamme. - Eftloreacence on the breast, which blli'Jl8 after
scratching.
Stinging in the leg• andfeet.
85. Guajacum.
Q.,•P.cw• vf~ciroflle. - 9N•jd-paa/.
Duration ofeffect: about 20 days.
Predominant effect•: Rheumatic pains in the joints. - Arthritic, rending,
•tinging pains in the limbs, with crooking of the limbe.- Numbne&l! ofthe limbe.
-Soreness and weakneu ofthe upper-arms and thighs, with avel'l!ion to motion.
- Great inclination to gape, and stretch out the limbs, from a sensation of un-
easine&l! in the whole body.- The most complaint& appear when sitting, or in the
morning after rising, or in the euening before going to bed.....,.. Bad ruulU jrfmr
the misu8e ofmercury.- Exostosis. - Consumption.
Great sleepiness m the afternoon. ..;_ Late sleeping aDd early awaking. - Fre-
quent frightful awaking, and startling when falling asleep.- Reatlees toesmg
about, at nighL- Night-mare, when lying on the baek.- llnrefreaed in the
morning.
Chillinees and shivering, even near a warm etove.- Thirstle&l! ebilll!l, in the
forenoon and evening. - Morning-sweat.- Copiou6 perlpiration, chiefly on the
head, when walking in the open air.- Aeeelera&ed pulse.
Peevish obstinacy. - CeDIOriousness and contemptuous hUIDOI'. - Slugish..
ness and disinclination to exercise.
Digitized by Coogle
Gu~acum.- Helleborus. 199
We8kneM of memory and great forgeifulxell, particularly of ftmlles. - Fre-
quent thoughtless staring, particularly in the morning.
Brolld, painful pressure, or drawing tearing in the forehead and temples.-
Very greet stitches in the brain.-ReRding in one Bide efthe head, into the cheek.
-Pulsating throbbing (and stinging) on the temples, with a &ell88tion, 88 if the
head were 1t00llen, and the blood·vessels sureharged.
&f&stJtion ofBIDelli.xg in the eye-balls, with.protrwlion of the eyes, and a sen-
8ation, 88 ifthe lida were too short.- Dilated pupils.- AmatllUis.- Pimples in
in the eye- brows.
Tearing and cramping in tlie ears.
Stinging in the zygomatic bone and faeisl muscles.
Pressure in the teeth, when biting them together. -Drawing rending in the
teeth, which terminates with stinging.
Strong hunger.- Insipid taste in the mouth, with anorexia, and loathing of
all things, with expectoration of phlegm. - Burning in the pharynx.- Empty
eructation.
Anxious sensation of constriction in the region of the stomach, which obstructs
breathing.- Griping in the abdomen, as from obstructed flatulency. - Sensation
of emptiness, with rolling and rumbling in the abdomen. - Pain in the groin, as
from a hernia.- Twitching of the abdominal muscles.
Omstipation. -Hard, crumbled stool.
amlinued urging to urinate' with a copious di8charge. -Cutting in the ure-.
thra, while urinating.- Ineffectual efforts to urinate, with stinging on the neck
of the bladder.
86. Hellehorus.
Duration ofeffect: 4....:.5 weeks.
Antidote: eamphora, cinchona.
It u successfully given, qfter: cinchona, bryonia, and belladonna.
Predominant effect~: Stinging boring pairrs ·in different parts, particularly in
the integuments ofthe bones, exacerbated by eool air, bodily exertion; eating and
drinking.-Drawing tearing pains in the limbs.- Stinging pains in the joints.-
Sudden relaxation ofall the muscles. - Relief in the open air, with a sensation,
as ifone had been sick for a long time, all things around appear renewed.- Con-
vulsions. - Syncope. - Dr~al swellings...:.... General anasarca, also after pur·
puN miliaris.
Pale color ofthe skin.- Miliary eruption.
Coma, with half·open eyes and pupils turned upwards. - ConfUI!ed, anxious
dreams, which escape recollection.- Sleeplessness.-Tossirig about in bed.
Chilliness, alternating with stinging pains in the limbe. - Col'dneBB of the _
whole body, particularly the e~:~.- General shaking-chill with gOOII&oekin,
painful tenderne1111 of the exterior of die head, by touching and moving, tt>aring
rending in the limbs, stitches in the joints, •'ithout tbint.- In the evening after
..:,
'- DigitizedbyGoogle
200 Helleborus.
going to bed, burning heat over the whole body, particularly on the head, \\'it!&
internal shivering and chills, without thirst, with aversion to an_liquid& - Nigh\-
sweats, towards morning.- Lingering nervotuferrer. ·
Silent melancholy.- Ezcesnve, almo8t killing anxiety.- (Home-llickn91!8.)-
Hypochondriasis.- Sluggishness.- Sobbing lamentation.--Obstinate taciturnity.
- Diffidence.
Hebetude of the internal sensu. ~ Thoughtless etupldity, with staring at one
point.- Weaknel!l8 of memory.
Dull headache, as ifbeaten.- Pressing moping headach~. - Painful heaWnel•
of the head, with heat and burning therein, with cold. fingers, and general chilly
sensation. - PhrenitiB. - Hydrocephalus internus. - The headache is the most
sufferable, if one lies quiet, and half slumbering attempts, to forget it.
Painfulness ofthe exterior of the head, particularly the ~ciput, wl,ich aches as
if beate1!., when touched or moved. - Twitching in the integuments of the head,
when moving, stooping and ascending steps. -Rubbing the head against the pil-
low.-Tumors in the skin of the forehead, which ache, 88 ifbruised.
Pain in the eyes, 88 from a nail in the orbital margin.- Heaviness in the eyes,
presnng downwards.- Involuntary looking. at one object.- Photophobia in the
daytime.
Stinging in the ears, in the daytim~tand at night, with a mooting boring.
The face pale, frequently yellowish.- Dull pain in the zygomatic bone.
Toothache at night, with a stinging tearing pain, increased by warmth and
coldness.
Troublesome dryness on the palate, with a cutting scraping pain, when swal-
lowing. -Continual collection of water .!n the mouth. - Torpor and BUJeUing of
the tongue.- Stomacace.
Bitter taste in the throat, increased from eating.
Nausea, with great desire to eat, and loathing offood, particularly of meat,
vege~bles, and sourcrout.- Porraceous and blackish vomiting, with abdomi-
nal pain.
HeavineBB, fulness und distension ofthe stomach.- Distension of the scrobicu-
Ius, obstructing the breath, with ulcerous pain.- Inexpressible woeful aensation
in the pit ofthe stomach.-Painful pressure in the scrobiculus, with every ste_p.-
Sensation as if the pit of the stomach were retracted. - Burning in the stomach.
T Gastritis.
Griping in the bowe,ls. - Sensation of coldness in the abdomen. - Heavineas
in the abdomen.- Ascites.- Clucking in the abdomen, particularly when deep
breathing, 88 if the bowels were full of water. - Rolling and rumbling in the
abdomen. .
Tenesmm, with a discharge .of gelatinous slime, preceded by pinchingin the
umbilical region. - Diarrhrea, with abdominal pain and nausea. ·
Frequent urging to urinate, with a small discharge.
Suppressed sexual inclination, and flabby genitals.
Suffocating constriction in the nose and laryn:e.
Dry cough, with painful tightness in the left· hypochondrium. - Dyspnalll.
- Quick or deep, slow respiration.
Digitized by Google
Helleborus.- Hydrargyrum. 201
Hydrothorax.- Conmiction qf the chut. - lncreued warmth in the chest.
- Palpitatio~ of the heart.
Contracting pain in the back. - Gnawing,. and dun stitches in the spine.-
Pain 114 if beaten, between the shoulder-blades.- Sti11besB and painfulness of the ,
throat and· neck, when moving.
Tearing in the brachial bones, and in the joints and backs of the fingers. -
Twitching of the muscles in the upper-arms. - Boring mad 11tinging in the uwilt11
andfinger-jointl. - Infirmity of the bands. - Spasmodic torpidity of the fingers.
Strong stitches and burning pressure in the hip. - Infirmity of the lege, with
vacillation of the knees. - StiffnesB and tightnesB in the thighs, and bends of the
knees. - Dull, boring 11titchel in the joint11 ofthe kneu andfeet.
87. Hydrargyrum.
HJdrariJ"'"' ••Iallie••· - (/tlicltiloer. - Germ. ()uedti16or1 Mercuri.,""'"'·
DuratiAm ofeffect: in chronic cll8e8, 3-4 weeks.
Antidote11, particularly when the potences have a too 11trong effect: belladonna,
calcis sulphuretum, lachesis, opium, -camphors.
When 11trong do11e11 operate vehemently: the same as above, and a88, nitri acid.,
stramonium, carbo vegetabilis, spigelia.
In tedious cases of poisoning from the misuse of mercury: the above named
and sulphur, cinchona, sepia, mezereum, aurum, 88888parilla, arnica, electricitas,
jodium, silica, argentum.
U11erl a11 antidote for: aurum, antimonii sulphuretum, belladonna, cinchona,
cuprum, dulcamara, epeira, ferrum, lachesis, mezereum, opium, sulphur, valeriana.
It anmer11 well after: belladonna, calcis sulpliuretum, lachesis, sulphur.
After it anmer well: belladonna, calcis sulphuretum, ~inchona, dulcamara,
lachesis, nitri acid., sepia, sulphur.
----
Predominant effeclll: Rl&eumatic, arthritic,_drawing and stinging-tearing pain.,
particularly in the limb11 and joint11, chiefly at night, with much per8piration, but
which doe11 not afford any relief. - Stinging pains. - !Jrooking ofsingle parts.-
Arthritic, 11hining red 11Welling11.- Dropsical tumefactions ofinternal and external
organs. - Influenza.- Worm-complaint& - Jaundice.- Gastric and bilioull dill-
order•. -.Swelling and induration ofthe glands. - Scrophulous complaints.- 8'!1'
philill.- RluJchitill. -Exostosis and ostitill, with nocturnal paim.-Incurvation of
bones.--Caries.- Inflammations of internal organs, terminating with exudation
or 8Uppuration. - H<emorrhage11 from dilferent organs. - Rheumatic catarrhal
injfammatiom, with great inclination to perspire. - Bad results from the misuse
ofcinchona.- Autumnal dy•ent~.- The complaint~ exacerbated in t/,e evening
and at night.- The warmth ofthe bed increa~u tluf paim lo an intolerable degree.
-In the morning and when at rest, partioularly when lying down, the patient
feels much better, than when walking ·or sitting. - Numbness ofalmost all parts
of the body when sitting, with creeping, when moved. - The limbs easily be-
numbed. - Particularly suitable for the infantile age.
General great soreness of the entire body, with painfidnellll ofall the bonu.-
,. dtj
Oigitizeo by Google
, Hydrargyrum.
Great re1tlumu1 in tM limb•, in the eveJlin«, with paiDa in aU tbe joint& - Total
~xhaustion, with an inexpressibly bad sta*e of body and mind. - Great f.tigue
ad tDeGkneu, with trembling and agitation of the blood, even from the least work.
-Vehement agitation qfthe blood, with throbbing in all the veinS. - Congestiene
towards the head, breast and abdomen. - Apoplexia, llBDguinea and eeroea.
The skin dirty-yellow, rough and dry.- Strong itching over the whole body.
particularly in the evening and at night, i11Crea.ed by the warmtla (}f the bed.-
Minutely pricking itching in the joints, at night. - Itching rub. - Red spotted
nettle-rash.- Dry, millet-like, eiJiily bleeding itch. - Itching eruptioWI, whicb
bleed after scratching. - Moist eruption like scabies humida. - Suppurating pu.s-
tules, and herpetic spots on the skin, with itching.- Burning, sealy, dry, 01'
corroding, ichorous, 'YPhilitic herpes. - Macula! hepatica!. - Erysipelatous i11-
1fammatiom ofexternal part1. - Suppuration~ ofa good or bad kind. - Syphilitil:
ulcer•. - Panaritia.
Great sleepiness in the daytime, and coma.- Late sleep, and nocturnal alee~
lessness, from anxiety, restlessness, beat and agitation of the blood~ - Dreadful
images of phantasy, before falling asleep.- Dreadful, anxious dreams.- Rest--
less, light 1leep.
Much chilline11 and 1hivering with a cold, as ifcold water were poured over
the body. - Coutinual coldness of the body. - In the evening and at night, chiUy
1hivering, even a warm stove cannot produce warmth. - Shuddering, alternat-
ing with paroxysms of ~eat.- External and internal chills, with heat in the fuee
and ardor of the cheeks. - Dry heat in the evening. - Burning beat wiih in-
. creased pains, when uncovering. - Lingering hectic fevers, particularly in chil-
dren.- Nervous fevers.- PituitotUfevers, with great prostration ofstrength.-
Puerperal fever.- Pulse quick and weak, or irregular. - lriflammatory fever•.
1Dith great inclination to perspire.- Morning-sweats.-: Strong night-at.Deats, with
a sour smeU, and sometimes greasy and oily.
Great anxiety, timidity and restleuneu, particularly in the evening and at
night, with fear of mental aberration. - Alarmed conscience, which allows ofno
rest in any place. - Wearineaa of life. - Great indifference to aU things. - Pee-
vish taciturnity. - Caprice and impatieftce. - Fretful, quarrellome humor. - In-
sanity, with inclination to weep. - Continual moaning.
Weakness of memory. - Mental abstraction. - Evaneecence of thotJ3ht&- ·
IDusiona offantasy. - Delirium.
Dizziness and dullneaa in ·the head. - Giddiness 8s from swinging. - GUldi-
neu 1Dith nau.ea, in the evening, attended with anxious heat and darkening be-
fOre the eyes.
Headache, 111 if the head would burst, With fulne18 in the brain. - Heavin81111
of the head. - Preasing, tightening headache, particularly in the forehead, as if
the head were laced together with a ribbon. - Nocturnal headache, stinging·bor-
ing or tearing. - Rending headache, sometimes only in one 8ide, extending to tie
teeth and muscles of the throat, with stitches in the ear.- Rending burning head-
ache, particularly in the temples.- Congestion ofblood to the head. accompanied
by heat. - Hydrocephalus internus. ·
Sensation oftension in the scalp. - Penpiration on the head. - Burning itch•
Digitized by Coogle
Hydrargyrum.
fng on the aealp, and the forehead, 'augmented by I'Klratcbing. - Itching, dry
or moiM tines,- which takes off the hair. - The hairfaUing out.
Very diatreeeing pains in the eyes, when exerting them.- Pressure in the
eyes, as from 111111d.-Pain under the eye-lids, t11 from a •harp 1Ub1tance. - Burn-
ing biting in the eyu, particularly in the open air. - Acute, and chronic i7lflam-
mation ofthe eye1, particularly arthritic, I'Klropbuloue, and syphilitic, with redness
of the co~unctiva, and intolerance of the Bplendor offire. - E:rce1rive running of
the eye• in the evening. - Lippitudo. - Pustules on the co~junctiva. - Swollen
eye-lids, covered on their edge• tcith ulcer• and 1cabs. - Scurf• around the eyes.-
Lustrelese, dull eyes. -Vehement contraction and difficult opening of the eye-Iida.
- Dimsightedness. - Perio8ical vanis~Png of sight. - Incipient amauroril. -
Fogs, sparks, fiiee, or black point• before the eye1.- Shunning candle-light and
the lplendor Offire.
Otalgia, tearing or stinging paim. - ln1lammation of the internal and ex-
ternal ear.- Spongy e:rcre~eences in the ear, with tearing in it and in the side of
the head. - Dilcharge of pm from the ears, with suppuration of the exterior of
the ear..- Hemorrhagia from the ears. - In1lammatory ~U~eUing of the parotil,
with stinging and pressing.- Dftficult hearing, with a strong reverberation ofall
sounds, relieved by blowing the no1e or swallowing; difficult bearing, produced by
a cofd or by an enlargement of the tonsils. - Roaring, ringing and rustling in the
«WI.- Sensation ofobstruction in the ears.
The nasal bones tumefied, and painful to the touch. - In1lammation and ul-
ceration C)fthe interior of the nose.- Red, shjning.tJtDeUing of the-nose, with itch·
ing. -Greenish, stinking pue, dii'Klbarged from the nose. - Epilta:ril, particularly
during coughing, or in sleep.
The countenonce pale, jaundiced, and earth-colored, with cloudy, dull eyes.-
Redness of the face. - Bloatedness and tumefaction of the face.- Swelling ofone
cheek;- Dirty-yellow, cru~ty eruption in the face, with an offensive moistness
continual itching, day tmd night, and bleeding after 1cratching.- Malignant cru~ta
lactea.
The lips dry, blackish, and with a burning pain when touched.- Soft, red
swelling of the liJI8, with deep, suppurating scabs, filled with a watery, yellow
ichor ofa putrid smelL- Biting burning vesicles with a yellow scab, on the lip.-
Crack~ ulcerated corners of the mouth. - Pimples on the chin. - Cramp in the
jaws, from a straining in the submaxillary joint, with a stinging, painful, or hat'd
tJtDeUi~~g ofthe IUbma:rillary gland1.
Toothache, incret~~ecl by any tlaing cold or 1oarm, or by eating, or in the evening
and at night, and by the warmth of the bed intolerably e:racerbated.- Toothache
from taking cold. - Rending toothache, extending through the whole side of the
face. - Jerking, pulsating toothache, at night, extending into the ear and head,
and abatiJI« only wben falling asleep.- Stinging in hoUow teeth, with rending in
the roots of the 801md teeth, accompanied with swelling of the cheeks, painful to
the touch.- Sensation of looeeneas, looseneu itself and faUing out of teeth. - _
Itching, burning and redness of the gums. - SwoUen, separated gums, with
buming at 'Aight, and 1orenu• when touched, and during eating.-Spongy, easily -
bleeding gwns. - Elnation fJf the gum~ in ·white ulcerous points. - Nocturnal
swelling o~the gums.
Digitized by Coogle
Hydrargyrum.
Stench from the the mouth. - l'tflammtJtory ltDelli11g qf the interior of t1ae
mouth. - Durnin~ ulcers on the internal 111rface of the cheek. - ApAtke in
children.- Stomacace.- IDeerated lllllivary gland& - U.ffe-Mive stJliWJtion; eome-
times in febrile attacks. - 'fhe tongue moist and covered with phlegm, or bud,
dry and blackish coated.- Inflammation, ..,eUing and induration or .uppuration
ofthe tongue.- Ranula.- Stammering speech.- Speechlumen.
Pain in the throat, when swallowing, RB if a foreign substance were passing
down with the saliva.-:- Soreness and rasping aeJl81ltion in the throat. - Bumitag
in tkepkar'!ftl:r, asJrom hot vapor riftng upfrom the abdomen, with pressing dry-
ness in the throat, when swallowing, and continual irrittUion to noalloul, the
mouth being full ofwater. - Painful, inflamed pharynx.- Oeeophagitia.- Ery-
npelatow inflammation of all the eoft parts of the fauces and pharynx. - lnftam-
mation and swelling of the uvula. - inflammation of the throat and fauces, with
•tinging paim (also in the tonsils and submaxillary glands), when 61Dall!nDing
saliva only, exacerbated at night and in the cool air.- Suppuration of the tonsila.
- Syphilitic ulcers in the throat and the fauce6. - Difficult swallowing; ftuids
swallowed, rush out again from the nose.
Tastelessness of food. - Putrid or metallic-saltwh or 61Deet tate in the moutla.
-Bitter taste in the mouth, particularly in the morning; fasting. - Sweet taste of
bread.- Vehement, burning thirst for beer or cold liquilh, day and night.-Gree-
diness.- Bulimia, also after meals.- Aversion to aUfood, partienhLrly warm.-
Soon satiated at meals.-Great weakne.. qfdigution, with continual hunger. .
Eructation of mere wind , or acrid, bitter or putrid. - Nauea, as if coming
from the breast, with pressing in it.- Namea, tDitk inclination to vomit, 61Deetwh
taste in the throat, giddiness, headache and heat.-Nocturnal nausea, and bitter,
bilious vomiting.-Vomiting ofwhat has been eaten.
Pru.ure in the stomach, and ·drawing dotDn in it, even qfter eaily dige..
tible food. - Pressure in the pit of the stomach, extending to the thyroid carti-
lage.....:Tension in the region ofthe stomacb.-Buming in the pit ofthestomacb.
Hepatitis, with stinging paim. - Hardness ofthe liver.- Nephritis.
Distension of the abdomen, with pressing and straining and painfulness to the
touch. - Cutting and pinching in the abdomen, particularly after a cold. - Cut-
ting and tearing in tHe abdomen, at night. - Sensation of emptiness in the ab-
domen. - Sensation as from something alive in the abdomen. - Shaking ofthe
boweho, when walking, as ifthey were relaxed. - Ascites, occasioned by maladies
of the glandular abdominal organa. - Rolling and rumbling in the abdomen. -
Painful inflammation, melling and suppuration ofthe inguinal glanth.
Constipation. - Ineffectual urging to stool, particularly at night. - Hard; vis-
cid or c~bled stool, discharged only after prusing long. - Chopped stools. -
Stools viscid, sour-smelling, or porraceow, slimy, acrid and bloody, tar-like, and
excoriating the anus. - Diarrhrea, from cold air in the evening, tDith cutting in
the abdomen, chiefly before stools.- Slimy diarrhrea,·also after measles.- Dysen-
teric stools, also with sucking infanta. - Diarrhooa of teething children. - Small,
·bloody-slimy stools, discharged after prening long and preceded by vehement urg-
ing, as if the bowels were being tom out, succeeded by tenumm. - Undigested
stools.- During evacytion, bright blood escaping.- Burning in the anus, during
evacuation.- Discharge ofslimefrom tlie rectum. - L'qiDbricoidea discharged.-
, o;9,t,zedbyGoogle
Hydrargyrum.
ProlaPft!$ of the reeewn after stool, and when pressing 8.nd 'Ul'ging to stool.-
The rectum black and spouting blOod. - Enteritis.
Vehement, al0108t continual urging to urinate, with a 8D18ll. diaeharge in a
weak stream..- &ulden call8 to urinate. - Ea:ceslive urination. - Involuntary
discharge of urine.- Dark-red, offennve urine, which soon becomes turbid.-Ure-.
trorrha,nia.- Burning and stinging in the urethra, during, besides, and after uri-
nation; - Thick, yellowish, or thin, whitish-gray gleet, particularly at night.
Copious perspiration on the genitals, when walking.- Galling between the
genitals and the thighs. - S10~lling of the lymphatic veBBeh along the pe'{'is.-
Painful inflammation and #fDeUing ofthe glans and pralputium. - Ulcers on the
glans, with a,pulpy base like lard.- ChancrotUI ulcerB on the glans and preputium.
- Balanoblennorlma. - Constriction of the prmputium. -Swelling of the teSti· ·
cles.-Excited lUBifulfantasy, with many painjul erections, particulariy at night.
- Bloody seminal emissions.
Menses 'too profuse, with anxiety and abdominal pains. - Menstruation too
weak and too short.- C<mgeBtion of blOfd 'towards the uterUB.-Sterility, witla a
too profuse menstruation. -Before menstruation, dry heat, with agitation and
congestion of blood towards the head. - After meiUitruation , leucorrhooa. - Sup-
pres.'!ed menstruation. - Milk-fever. - ProlapsuB of the vagina. - Inflammation
of the uterus, the ovaria and the labia p'udendorum. ...,. Dropsy of the ovaria.-
Purulent,. corroding leucorrhaJU, with biting in the pudenda.
Much sneezing, without coryza. - Dryness in the nose.- Vehement, corrod-
ing, watery.flowing catarrh.--- Gravedo.
Laryngitis.-Tedious catarrh.- HoarBe, hUBky 11oice, with burning and tick-
ling in the larynx.-Total aphonia.
Ccntgh with hOGrseneBB. - Cough , from an irritation in the laryna:, or in the
upper-part of the chest.- Dry tickling cough, in the evening before falling asleep.
-Shaking, dry cough, particularly at night, as if the head and chest would burst, ,
sometimes with inclination to vomit. - Dry spasmodic cough, with vomiturition.
- Bloody ea:pectoration with the cough.- Phthisis ulcerosa.
Oppression of breath, when ascending a height, with stinging under the false
ribs.-Tightness ofthe chest and short breath, when asceniling stepB, and walking .
quickly•....:. Pectoral cramps, from the vapours ofcopper or arsenic.
Pressure in the chest..,- Stitches in the chest, extending to the back, illcreased
by coughing. - Burning in the chest, up to the'throat.- Pneumonia. - Palpita-
tion ofthe heart.....: Hard swelling; or suppuration of the mammm, particularly of
the nipple•.- Deformity of the nipples.- Bad milk, disgUBting the child.
Stinging pains in the small ofthe back, with a sensation ofinfirnlity and weak-
ness.-Soreness in the small of the back, back, and shoulder-blades.- Erylipela-
toUB inflammation around the body, like a zona.-Rhewnatic stilfness and swelling
of the neck and exterior of the throat.- Stinging in the muscles of the throat.-
Inflammation and .welling cif the gland& ofthe throat, with stinging and pressing
in them.
Tearing in the shoulders and upper-armB, particularly at night and when moT-
ing. -Suppuration of the axillary glands. -Twitching in the arms and fingers.-
Arthritic, red, hot swelling ofthe fore· arm, from the elbow-joint to t.he wrilt. -
18
Digitized by Coogle
- Hydrargyrum. - Hydrargyri chlor. corr.
Itollia« rMh on the 81'111111.- Scaly, bumiug herpee eo dae be·um and the
wri1t.- Disability in the hand and its joint& - Penpiralion on dae palme of the
hand&-Crookiog ofthe fiDgem -Swelling of&be fiapl'·joiD&&- Painful, deep,
bleeding ~es, and cracks in the akin of the Angen.-The cu&icle peeliog otT
from the fiDger-oaiJa.- Pauaritia.
ArtlritV UcAiaticG, with intolen_ble paiDa at ni«h&. or with throbbing pe.ins at
the commencement of euppuntioD. - Tearing tmd rereJiag .tinging in tM kga,
perticuJarly in the hip-join&, the thigh-bones mel knees, cbie11y Gt night and when
fJI01Iiftg, with a 1e1UGtion of eoldneu in tM port• affect-. - Great weaknees,
bea-rineee snd aoreneee in the thighs and legs. - Shinjng, trauparent, dropftcal
NdliftB' of the thighs and kg•.-ItChing rash on the lege.-Herpes on the thighs
and legs.- Crooking of the legs, with 8JI88ID in the calves and toes.- Cold feeL
- Cold sweat on the feet.- Swelling ofthe heelll and back of the foot.- Painf.U
6tDeUing ofthe tar11allxmu.
88. Ilydr~rgyri chloridum corrosivum.
Duration ofeffect: 3-4 week&
Predominant effecu: DraVJing in the peno.teum, as from paroX)'liDUI of inter-
mittent fevere, with eenaation of heat in the head.- Autumnal dy11enteriu.
Vehement startling, when falling asleep, with shaking ofthe whole body.
Etuily 11laivering, particularly on the head.-Chilh, with cutting in the bowelll
and teneemua, immediately after the lea•t movement, likewiee in the open (~ough
warm) air.- Heat when bending forward.- Sensation ofcoolness, when rising
up again.
IH humor, you can pleaee him with nothing; alternating with hilarity.
The eyes inflamed and protrude~'~.- Staring look.
Distorted ·countenance. - Swelling of the lips. - SU!eUing and ever•ion ofthe
upper-lip.
Stench from the mouth. - Salivation, with a ealtieh taste. - Swelling of
the tongue and throat.
Insatiable thirst. - Painful burning from the mouth, down to the region of
the stomach.- Strong painful distension ofthe abdomen.
Dy6mteric 11tools, with green or brown, 1tinking biliOUI dilckargu, or with
little, bloody 1lime attended with continued cutting in the afxlqmen, and intolerable
painful presring, urging and cramping to •tool.- Ineffectual urging to stool-
Evacuations of fieces, mixed with slime and dark coagulated blood.
Stnnguria.- GonorrhOUJ pura, first thin, then thicker, with burning, when
urinating, and stinging in the urethra.
. Whitieb·yellow leucorrhOla ofa naueeous sweetish odour.
Catarrh of the noee.-Hollow, fatiguing, dry cough.
Digitized by Coogle
Hydrargyri chlor. corr.- Hydrargyri sulph. rubr. iOT
. . .
Stinging obliquely through the chest, at Bight.- Painful glandular IIIWelliDg
about the nipples.
Stinging in the hip-joint, when at rest or moving.- Ice-cold feet.
89. Hydrargyri sulphuretum rubrum.
Duration ofeffect: in chronic cases, a few weeks.
Predominant e.ffecu: Cold,net!ll in the joiii.ts.- Drawing and shivering in the
arms and legs. - Disability in all the limbs, with sluggishness and sleepine18.
Sleeplessness at night, and still refreshed in the morning, as ifsleep were un-
necessary.-Night-mare after midnight.
----
Attackl of an exceaaive, raging and furious headache, in the forehead and
temples, relieved by compressing the head.- Buzzing in the head,;which occasions
dizziness, soon after dinner, and in the evening before going to bed. . f
Externally on the head, stinging from inside outwards.- Painfulness of the
cranium and the hairs, when touched.
Inflammation of the eyes, with a pressing stinging and continUal running,
when fixing the eyes upon an object.
Contracting burning on the palate. - Salivation. - Nocturnal heat and dry-
ness in the mouth and throat, with much thirst. - Preaaing contracting pain in
the throat, when swallowing aaliva only.
Anorexia, with loathing ofall food.- After meals1 an uneasy aenaation ofdia-
tenaion in the whole body, with oppreaaion on the cheat and stomach.
Heat riairig from the stomach towards the throat and head, disappearing when
sitting up, at night.
Frequent soft stools, preceded by griping in the bowels. - Tedious nocturnal
diarrhrea, without abdominal pains.
Soreneaa in the urethra, when urinating.
Swelling of the penis. - BalanoblennorhClla, with redneBB and 81DeUing ofthe
prtept~tium. -Granulous eruption on the glans.- Condylomata.- Very excited
sexual passion, and inclination to cohabit, with strong appetite for eating and
drinking.- Strong erections, in the evening, in bed. -·Oft'enaive, ezcoriating
perspiration, between the thighs, when walfting.
Vehement, running catarrh, with an ardent watery discharge.
Dry cough with single shocks, when lying down.
Pulaating throbbing and stinging in the cheat, moetly in walking.
Tearing in the 8ide of the back, at night, when moving, relieved by the
warmth ofa stove. -Wrenching pain in the cervical vertebne.
Tearing in the arm, when writiiJg, relieved by the warmth ofa stoTe.- Ye-
hement stitches in the arm.
Painful jerking in the leg; in the evening, after fiilling asleep.
Digitized by Google
Hyoscyamus.
go. Hyoscyamus.
Br••.,•- aiJ•r.- Bled ln6•••:-.Oera. Biu,.lr.,.l.
Antidote•: eamphora, belladonna, cinchona.
U1ed a an antidotefor: belladonna, plumbum.
It amwer• well after: belladonna.
After it anllllft'l tDeU: artemisia 8antonica.
-a
Predomirnmt effect•: D,ull drawing and cutting tearing in the limbs and j~ts.
-Cold, trembling, benumbed limb&- Hysteric complaints.,-Injlammation of
internal orgtm•, teith ntn10tll affections. - Crttmps, alstJ frOm IDorml, or ~itb
pregnani and parturient women. - Convulsive motions, and jerk,. of single lim~
and the whole body, also with the leat attempt to ln.DII~ID ·liquitU. - Flinging
about with the hands and feet.--. Chorea Sancti Viti.- Epileptic cramp• and apo.
plectic fi&l, also in alternati~g paroxysms. - Fainting fits. - Great weakness and
enervation.- Paralysis. - Bad re1Ult1 ofdi&appointed l011e, with jealousy. -Dis-
orders from taking cold , and the influence of eold air.- The. most , and the
strongest complaints arise after meals. · ·
Dry, harsh skin. -Miliary eruptions, after misuse ofbelladonna.- Eruption
ofdry pustules, like confluent variolas. - Brown spots on the body, from time to
t~e.- Frequent large furuncles. - Gangrenous spots and bladders on different
places. /
Coma vigil.-Late sleep and excessive wakefulness at night.- Grasping about
and searching with the hands in bed, and vellicating on the bed-clothes.-Smiling
ill sleep.- Startling and jerking in sleep.
Shivering from the feet, extending to the bead.- Vehement heat of the body,
particularly the head. -Puerperal, putrid, worm-, and nervofl.3jever•.- Qmta-
giou• typhUI.
Melancboly.-Avoiding company.- Distrust.- Fleeing from home, at night.
- Fear of being sold or poisoned. -Inclination to laugh about every thing. -
Loquacity.- Jealouly. - Scolding and quarreling. - Puror, tJJith .flinging and
inclination to murder. -Hydrophobia. -Mental derangement, from bnwdy-
drmking.
Loss ofmemory.- Unconscioumess, lying with closed eyes and talking about
business.-Imbecility.'- He feel!! no want (except thirst).- Delirium.- Awk-
wardness in every thing. - Insanity, with 'qnconsciotisness, or with ridiculou!i .
jests ~d behaviour.- .Satyriaril, -
Dizzinetl8 and heaviness of the head.- Giddine11 a& from intoxication, or witlt
obscuration ofsight.
Headache, as from concussion of the brain.- Presliug moping pain in the
forehead, particularly after meals.- Constringent dizziness in the forehead.-
Attacks of arthritic headache.- Wavering sensation in the brain.- Nervous in-
flammation of the broin, alao after exertion in the coldness ofwinter.- Hydroce-
phalUI internUI.
MOlting the head here and there.
rwv:tzrh\
Digitized by'Google
'·'i»tifd' 1
dt riP
......
Hyoscyamus.
The eyes dull and hutrelea - Red, protruded, staring dUtortcd eyu. -
Spasmodic motion of the eyes. - Strabinnm. - The eyes 'PtUfllOdictJUJ oltned.- ,
Dilated pupii&-Dimsightedn-.-Myopia or Prubyopils.-Peeudopeia. -Diplo-·
pi&- Object. appear much too large, or red. - Night·bliflflne~.- Incipient
amalll'OI!is.
Buzzing in the ears.- Dyeecoia. .
Epistaxis.- Prt'88ing squeezing on the root of the nose.- lAIII! ofsmeUing.
Face cold, pale, blueish, or bloated and blood-red. - Pressing squeezing on the
zygomatic bones.- Dry lips.- Trimnu.
Pulsating, tearing toothache, from the cheek up to the furehead, particul¢y
after a coltl, or in cold air, wit,h conget~tion of blood towards the head, chiefty in
the morning. -Tearing in the gums, with a vibration and eelllllltion of lOII!MlMIII
in the teeth.- Biting the teeth together.
Drynlllll'l of the mouth.- Salivation, with a 1'18ltish taste.- Bloody llllliva.-
Froth from the fltOUth.- Offen.sive odour from the mouth, perceived by oneeel£-
Burning and numbness of the tongue, 81'1 ifit were burnt.- Red tongue.- Para-
lysis of the tongue. - Loss ofspeech.
Throat dry and burning hot.- Con~trictimf ofthe thToat, and inability to 81Dal-
low liquids.
Age118ia.-Bulimia, 'Yith much thirst.- Aversion to drinking.-Hackupping,
particularly after meals.
Nausea, when pressing on the pil of the stomach.- Choking and vomiting,
with cutting in the bowelt!, compelling one to cry.-Watery vomiting, with giddi-
ness.- Vomiting of a bloody llime, and Trk:red blood.- Vomiting ofwhat h8l'l
been eaten, immediately a~r eating (with infanta).
Cramp in the stomach, in periodical attacks, and relieved by vomiting.-The
pit of t~e stomach painful to the touch.- Burning in the stomach.-Gastritis and
diaphragmatitis.
Dull pains in the hepatic region.- Te~, inflated abdomen, painful to the
touch. - Colic-like abdominal cramp•. - Cutting in the bowelt!. - Stinging about
the navel, when walking und breathing. -Enteritis.
Constipation. - Frequent urging to stool, with email, unfrequent discharge.-
Watery dia"hcza. - Diarrhrea ofconfined women. - Involuntary stool..
Retention of urine.- Fre1'uent urging to urinate, with a small discharge.,-·
Copioua urine, as clear as water. - Flow of urine. - Involuntary urination. _
ParalysiS of the bladder.
Excited sexual pa!!8ion. - Impotence.
Aggravated rMnBtruation. - 8uppre881!d menatruatian. - Suppretlled. lochia.
-Met~ ofbright-red blood. - Daring menstruation, delirium, flow of
urine, perspiration and convulsive trembling.- Bifore menstr!Uition, hy•teric
.cramps and loud laughing. - Sterility.
Much phlegm in the larynx and trachea, whfuh makM voice and ~h husky. .
- Cat~h ofthe bronchia.
Continual cough in lying, dil!Rppenring when ai&ting up. - Dry cttzmping or
~tllins-cougA. atnigAt.~Dry, shaking, hoopingeough(after, and with measles),
•
Digitized by Google
--_... · ... -
21() Hyoscyamus. - Jalapa. - Jambos.
with 110rene. in the pectoral muscles. - Greenish expectoration, with the cough;
-Incipient phthisis ulceroea.
Tightneee ofthe chest, and difficult rattling breath.
Pre88ure in the right Bide of the chest, with great anxiety and short breath,
when ascending stepe.- Cramps in the chest, with obstruction of breath and ob-
liging one to bend forward. - Stitches in the Bides of the chest. - Pnewnonia
mrvota.- Dieeaaes ofthe heart.
Paine,in the back, particularly·the loins, with swelling ofthe foot. - Stinging
in the loins, and shoulder-blades. - Herpetic.spots in the nape. .
Tremor of the arms, in the evening, after exercise. - Painful numbntiiiB and
torpor of the hands. - Swelling of the hands. - Making a fist and clinching the
thumbs.
Pairiful cramp in the thighs and calves, which draws the legs crooked.:._
Gangreno1111 spots .and vesicles on the legs. - Stiffness·and lassitude in the knee-
joints. - Swelling ofthe feet. - The toes crooked, when walking and ascending
an eminence.
91. Jalapa.
lJu<rtJtion ofeffect: about 8 days.
8leeplusne88, restlusneu and crying ofinfimts.
Bloody, painful pufging stools, with abdominal pains, in children.
92. Jambos.
Duration ofeffect: 3-4 days.
· Antido•e: eotfea. ·
The most complaints appear in the evening and at night. -Firm profound
sleep; at noon, ae ifdrunken, with confused dreams.
Coldness, ae from ·nakedness. - Hot hand& - Morning-sweats, with thirst.
- CattMThalfever, 1Dith buming in the eye•, thirst during chills, mul heat before
midnight, 1Dith inflammatory qffection in tile tTGCMa, the throat mad e,es, eZIJM'-
bated at night.
Disliking company. - No position being right.
Intoxication, with loquacity and sluggishness. - Giddiness; with congestion
ofblood to the head; objects appeai in-yerted, or wavering in confusion, or double,
UJhich disappears UJhen looking intently.
Prelllling jamming headache, with a fluctuating eontraction.-Jn the nening,
rolling and buf"aing in the head, through the· eyes, with running eyes, nausea,
' .
•
Digitized by Goo le
Jambos;- lgnatii faba. 211
and 11MIIitiftg, with a bitter after-taste, by which the headacheoie increased.-
Headache at night, with burning in the eyes, thirat, and much urinating.
The eyee inflamed, with a wavering Bight, burning, biting and running.
Frothy ealiva, particularly before dinner, when speaking.- Viscous saliva,
particularly after sleep. ·
Meals, drinking and 8f71oking tobacco, particularly•relishing.- Thirst, at night,
with dryness deep in the throat. - Nausea rising from the stomach.
•Stinging in the left ftde, below the ribs and above the hip-bone.- Coldness
and burning in the abdomen.
Frequent small purging stools, with pressing afterwards. - Bubbling, stink-
ing stools, without urging, with burning in the abdomen. - Small soft or inter·
mittent stool - Conatipation. - Hard stools, succeeded by cl'8Dlp in the anus. -
Jamming in the rectum.
Dark urine. - After urinating, shivering, or brightness and clearness before
the eyee.
Painful erections, with itching.- The emission ofsemen too late or too early.
- After coition, the glans very tender, pel'8piration, thirst.
Cough, from hawking or swallowing; al\er coughing, he is obliged to swallow;
dryness in the throat. - Moist, deep cough, the phlegm does not come up.-
When hawking, yellow-bloody slime is drawn up.
Neck and back stiff. - Disabling crampa in the shins and solee. - Spasm in
the soles, at night.
93. lgnatii faba.
Duration ofeffect: aboui 9 days.
, Antidotu: camphors, cotrea tosta; arnica, cotl'ea cruda, ebamomilla, eoeeuJus,
pulsatilla. '
Uted tJI an antidote: chamomilla, cotl'ea, pulsatilla, zincum.
It annDerB weU: after ipecacuanha.
----
Predominant e.lfectB: A simple pain, on different places, weAement Ofllr tDM!I
touched.- Sharp, or acute or hard pruaure in the limbe and other parts.- Prea-
ling IJ8tmller and con~triction in interior organs.-Rheumatic tearing in the limbe.
- Pcins'in tlae joinU tJI iftDrertelaed or aprained.- Heaviness, and creeping numb-
ness in tlae limbs.- ConwlaionB and parozyru ofcrGmp, also hyateric•..... Epilep-
tic cramps, particularly after fright and vezation, or 1llil/a teething children. -
8p88PI8 with laughing.- Chorea &ncti Viti. -Tetanus.- Bad ruultB offright.
iniDard mortijication, vexation, and disappointed love with rilent grief.- Diaorder•
from coffee drinking•..:... Scrophulous complaints. -Gastric and.bilious complaints.
-Worm-complaints.- Chloro&is.- Hylterie 10eaknU• andfainting fill.- Th«P
~mplainta particularly appear immediately after meals, likewise in tlae eveni"K
o.ftergoing to bed, and in the morning after rising. - The pains disappear either
IDhen lying on tlae back, or on tlae part affected, or when lying oa tlae part aet 4f.
·jected, but always by changing tlae polition.
Digitized by Coogle
212 lgnatii faba.
Itching, tolrich etUily duappear• by 8Cf'atching. - Chilblaill8.- Galling of
children.
Prqfoo.nd, •tupefying •leep, with a enoring inllpiration.- Ezcuriw, 81'~
die gaping, particularly in the morning, and after sleep at noon....... Very light
sleep. - Restles• •leep, with night-mare. - Twitching ofthe limbe, when fillling
asleep. - Drea'IM, toith rejlectifm and conrideration, or ofthe same object through
the whole night.
Rhaking chills on the back and arms, with thirst fur cold water. - During
chills, vomiting offood, bile or slime. - Fever-chills at first, with thirst, then heat.
-First shaking chills, then external heat, then perspiration. - Shakirtg clailU,
toith thirst and external coldness (frequently rising up from the abdomen) BUc-
ceeded by heat without thirst, with cold feet, and with or without perspiration;
during chills nalUMlB, pale countenance, pain in the back, di8ability of the lege; ·
during heat, deliria, giddinea, pulling headache, pain in the back, tearing in t}:le
bones, P.leep.- Quotidian, tertian a,nd quartan fever.- Anticipating typue.-
Gen~td heat, (except on the feet) toith internal shivering, and rednetM of the
cheeks. - Sudden flushes of beat over the whole body. - Anxious ~~ensation of
beat, as if perspiration would come out.- Internal sensation of warmth, with per-
spiration. - Thir•tlesme•• during heat and per8piration. - Catarrhal, rheumatic,
intermittent and lingering nervott8 fever•. '
Sadness and rilent grief, with righing. - Nocturnal attaeke ofanxiety. - Ir-
resolution. -Impatience.- Very etUilyfrightened.- Mol'OI!e fretfulneu. -Bold-
ne88.- Fond di&porition and delicate scrupulousne••· - Inconstancy. - Jocose ez-
travagance alternating with lamenting •adneu. - Disinclination to apeak.
Giddiness, with glistering before the eyes.
Attacks ofhemicranis.- Htiadacbe, increued by stooping.·- Pruring head-
ache above the root of the nose, with inclination to vomit, relieved by bending the-
head forward. - Pre•nng amnder in the head. - Pressing pains in the fore-
head and occiput, with obscuration ofeight. - Headache, a8 ifa nail were forced
into the brain. - Boring, stinging, tearing deep in the brain, and in tke forehead.
relieved by lying down. - Jerking, throbbing lteadache.
The head bent backward. - Pre•sure in the eye•. - Ophthalmitie eerophulosa.
- Red eyes. - Runuing of the eyes and agglutination by matter. - Convuhive
motioM of the eye• and litis. - Staring look, with dilated pup&. - Photo-
phobia.
StoeUing ofthe.paroti8, with al!tinging pain. - Rednese aDd bW'Ilin« heat of
·one ear.
Itching on the nose. - mcerated, lore n01trik.
Countenance pale, red, or blue. - Redness and burning heat ofone cheek. -
Convuhive twitching ofthe facial mu.cles. - Eruption in the face.
The lip• dry, cracked and bleeding. - Sorenese of the internalsurfilce of the
under-lip. - Scurfy corners of the mouth. - f'..onvwlfive ttoitcling ofthe corner6
ofthe mouth.
Toothache from a co~d, as if the teeth were crushed. - Di.f!U;ult teething of
children. - Trismus.
Mouth and fauces inflamed and red. - Continual phlegm or mucA aour 8Cfli11a
.
• Digitized by Coogle
.-
lgnatii faba. 213
in the mouth.- When chewing or speaking, one bites the tongue easily.- Moist
whitish-furred tongue.- Stinging in the palate extending to the ear.
Pain in the throat, as from a plug, without swallowing. - Sensation in the
QISOpbagus, as if all things lmd to pass over n sore burning tumor. - Stinging
pain in the throat, chiefly without •wallowing. - Inflamed, hard swollen tonsils,
with small abscesses. - Djfficult 8toallowing (of liqnids). - Constriction in
the pharynx.
Allerrion to food and drink, particularly to milk and .moking tobacco. - The
milk made \Uie ofin the morning, leaves behind it a very long tang.- Hickupping,
after smoking tobacco.
Regurgitation of what has been eaten, or of a bitter fluid. - Hickupping,
particularly after every meal and tlraft.
Nausea, with restle8811ess and anxiety.- Vomiting offood, bile and slime.
Pai1UI in the 1tomach, in periodical attacks, disturbing night-sleep, and increased
by pressing upon. - Dull pressing or stinging in the pit.of the stomach. - Burn-
ing in the stomach. - Se1Uiation of emptine,. and weakne11 in the pit of tlie
•tomach.
Fulne11 and diltemion in the hypochondrea, with oppression ofthe breath.
Abdominal pai1UI, first pinching, then stinging, in the sides ofthe abdomen--
Periodical abdominal cramp1, particularly in sensitive persons. - Spasmodic pre,.
8Ure, sometimes inward, at other times outward, in the inguinal region. - Throb-
bing in the abdomen. - Rolling and rumbling in the bowels. - Flatulent colic,
particularly with hysteric persona.
Hard 1tooll, with frequent ineffectual e.ffortl. - The stool whitilla-yellow, very
thick formed and discharged with difficulty.- Diarrhcu. of bloody 1lime, with
rumbling in the abdomen.- Hremorrhage from the anus.- Prolapsus ani, during
stool. - Itching and creeping in the anm. - Ascarides. - Stricture of the anus.
-Contracting 1ore pain in the anm, after evacuation. - Stitches from the anus,
deep into the rectum.
Frequent di~harge of much watery urine.- Lemon-colored urine.- Invo-
luntary urination.
About the genitals and on the penis, much itching, in the evening, after going
to bed, disappearing by scratching. - ·SoreneiB and pain as from an ulcer on
the rims of the prepuce. - Pressing and squeezing in the testiclt>.s, particularly in
the evening. after lying down. - Perspiration on the scrotum. - Ltutjulne1•,
with weakne11 ofthe 1ezual power.-Deficiency ofsexual inclination.-Erections,
with painful urging and pressing on the mons veneris. - Rigor of the penis with
every stooL
Menstruation too late.- Metrorrhagia.- 'Uterine cramJn.- Milk-fever.-
Purulent, excoriating leucorrhrea, preceded by a contracting pressure on. the
uterus.
Gravedo, with catarrh, dull headache in the forehead, and hysteric excitement.
- Dryness ofthe nose.
Low voice, inability to talk loudly.
Cough, from C01Uitriction·in the throat pit, as from the vapour ofsulphur. -
Tedious night-cough.- Dry cough, with running catarrh.- Dry cough, con-'
Digitized by Coogle
lgnatii faba. - .Illicium. - Indigo.
tinued day nnd night.-Rough, dry cough, after meulee.- Spa81Dodie eoncutient
cough. - Short coogA, a from featl&tr-dtm in tl&e tAroat, the more one coughs,
the WOI'I!Ie it is.
Oppreallion oftAe breath and cheat, particularly at night.- Difficult impiration,
as if impeded by an oppressive weight. - Want of breath when w11lking, and
cough, when standing still.- A1thma Millan.
Pressure in the chest. - Con~trictu:n ofthe cheat. - Stinging in•the sides of
the breast. - Throbbing in the chest.
Vehement pain in the back, stinging, drawing and rafBng.- The back bent
backward~. - Stifthess of the neck. - Pressing pain in the·glands of the throat.
Intolerable, disabling wrenching paim in the bones and joints ofthe arma, as
if the tlesh would be loosened from the bones. - Conwlrive twitching ofthe arms
and fingers. - Tearing in the arms, from ~ld air. - Tightness in the wrist. -
Warm perspiration of the bands.
Cutting tearing on the backpart ofthe thiglu, when exerting the muscles. -
Heaviness of the legs and leet, with tightness in the legs and calves, when walk-
ing. - Hot knees, while the nose is cold.- Convulsive twitching of the lega.-
Stiffness of the knees and feet.- Painful tendemet!IIJ of the soles ofthe feet, when
walking.- Burning in the corns. ·
94. lllicium.
lllicht• a}til•hl•. - Star ..iuecl. - Germ. Sl*rrauU; ,A,.;,.,.. 11~11.,.•.
Stomach-ache.- Abdominal pains from purgatives. - Vehement flatulent
colic1.
95. .Indigo.
Duration ofeffect: about 12 days.
Pains, which either disappear entirely by rubbing· or pressing, or return, at
least weaker. - Stinging and tearing in the limbs, in the llftemoon .and evening.
Furuncles.
Sleepiness in the evening and restless .night-sleep.- Frightful awaking at
night.- Anxious dre11ms.
Prevailing coldness.
Morose indisposition and sluggishneas.
The head ~ms to have been enlarged,·and widely protuberant. - Rending
and stinging headache, deep in the brain. - Throbbing and beating in the head.
- W11rmth 11nd ebullition, like boiling water, in the occiput.
Sensation on the vertex, as if&amebody pulled the hair. '
Twitching and quivering in the eye-lids, which prevents ~eeing.
Tearing in and behind the ears, and in the lower maxilla.
Digitized by Coogle
Indigo.- Jodium. 216
Boring, gnawing, rending in the facial bones, particularly the lower maxilla.-
.Congestion of blood to the face, with burning on the cheek&
Epistaxis, with vanishing of sight.- Rending and cutting in the nasal bones
and cartilages.
NumbneiB of the interior of the mouth, in the morning, after awaking.-
Burning on the tongue and the back-part of the palate.- Spitting of bloody saliva.
Empty eructation.-Eructation with.the taste ofink.-A sweet.ish taste rising
up from the stomach.-Wambling in the storpaeh.
Purging stools, with pinching in the abdomen and eftOrts to etool
•
(Augmented urinal discharge.)
(Menstruation too early.)
S~ffoeating cough, with irritation to vomit, in the evening, before and after
going to bed.
Clucking and murmuring in the chest, with every inspiration. - Stinging
pains, in nnd near the mammre.
Tearing in the fore-arm, from the elbow into the fingers, when moving,
changed, but only with respect to the place.- Jerking drawing in the arms.-
Distended, red veins on the hand, tight as ifswollen.-Rending stinging pains in
the thighs.
Tearing in the lower extremities, particularly the toes. -Great weakness in
the lower extremities ln the evening, still cont.inued after lying down,
#
g6. Jodium.
Duration ofeffeA:t: about 7 weeks.
Antidotes: when poisoned with it, water with sugar succeeded by cinchona,
ealcis sulphuretum; for tedious consequences al8o phosph. and spongin; for strong
etrects ofpotences: eamphora, coftea.
Predominant tdfem: Unsteady pains in the joints.- Turing pains in the
limbs, particularly tke joint&- Sensation ofnumbness in the limbe. - Spannodie
jerb, and twitching ofthe tendons. - Incurvation of bones. - It has an exciting
effect on the glandular systems, the stomach, the liver &e., and promoteiJ the
secretion ofjuice in them.- SweUing and induration ofglanth, also after a blow
or contusion. - Htl!mOf'f'Mgt! fr;om different organs. - Hysteric complaints. -
Di8ordersfrom the miause of mercury.
General great e3:citement ofthe whole nervous .ystem. - Agitation ofthe blood,
and pulsation through the whole body, increased by every exertion.- Tremor of
the limbs.-Tottering walk...:.... Great weakne11, so that even from talking perspi-
ration comes,out.-Atrophia and emaciation to a skeleton, with children.- Oedem-
Gtous 8fJJeUings, also of the entire body.
Rough, dry, acid, or viscous, perspiring, filthy, yelloto skin.- Herpes. -
Panaritia.
Sleeplesiness.- Anxious dream&
Digitized by Coogle
216 Jodium.
·Shaking chills, even in a warm room. - lncretJied warmth of the body.·-
Flushes ofheat.-Night-sweat&-Sourish morning-eweata.- Accelerated, small;
bard pulse. - Consumptive fevers. .
Lamenting derangement and dejectiop.. - Melancholy, hypochondriac sadne88,
oppression and anxiety.- Fearful solicitude.- Restle88 mobility, which permits
neither rest nor sleep.- Sen!itive, irritable mental ezcitement. - Impressive illu-
sions.- Loquacity and excessive merriment.
Indeterminate and irresolute.- 8luggishne88 ofmind, with great aversion to
mental occupation. - Fixed immoveable thought& - Deliria. - Carpologia (pick-
.ing the bed-clothes).
Dizzine88 ofthe head. - Dizzy in the morning.
' Head-ache, in warm ~ir, likewise when riding in a carriage for a considerable
length o( time, or walking rapidly, increased by noise and talking.- Bruising
pain in the brain, with atony of ~he body, as ifit were maimed. -Sharp presSing
headache in the forehead. - Congestion ofblood to the head, with throbbing in it.
Pain in the orbits of the ey~- &:nsation of weakness above the eyes, as if
they were lying too deep, in the evening. - Ralping senBation in the eyes. - In-
ftammation of the eyes, also after a cold. - The sclerotia dirty-yellow. - Running
ofthe eyes.- Twitching and trembling of the lids.- Weakened sight.-Diplopia.
- Sparkling 11nd glistering before the eyes.
Humming in the ears. - Dysecoia. - Very sensible to noise.
Epistaxis. - A red burniftg spot on the nose, under the eyes.
Countenance pale, yellot.oish, or quickly turning broum.- Disfigured counte-
nimce, with sunken eyes. - Twitching in the facial muscles. - Abscess on the
cheek, with swelling ofthe adjacent glands.-Swellingofthe submarillary glands• .
Pressing pain in the molares. - The teeth yellow, covered with slime, in the·
morning.- ln6ammatory swelling and bleeding of the gums. - Ulcer on the
gums with swelling ofthe cheek. - Softened gums.
Aphthte. - Mercurial ulcers in the mouth. - Swelling and pain of the glande
ofthe mouth. - Putrid odour of the mouth. - Salivation, also from the misuse
.ofmercury. - Thicklyfurred tongue.
Pressing pain in the throat, without swallowing. - Continual constrictionin
the pharynz and impeded swallowing. - Pharyngitis, with burning and itching.
Taste nauseous, soapy, or bitter, saltish. - IncretJied thir1t.- Changing ap-
petite, sometimes bulimia, at other times anorexia. - Uncommon hunger, with
reliefafter eating. - Great weakness ofdigestion.
Eructation, mostly sourish, with burning.- Heart-burn, particularly after i,..
digutible food.
Frequent nausea.- Vehement 110111iting, renev>ed after eating.- Bilioue or
yellowish slimy vomits.
Excel!llive stoDllich-aehe, with bilious evacuations. - Pre11ure in the 1tomach,
qfter every meal. - .SpaNDodic, gnawing, fretting, and burning pains in the
stomach. - Gastritis. - Pulsation in the pit ofthe stomach.
Abdominal pains, returning after every meal. - Distension of the abdomen.-
Tumid abdomen, which forbids lying horizontally, without th~tened suffocation.
-Hard swelling of the spleen.- Colic-like belly-ache. - Abdominal cramps
Digitized by Coogle
Jodiuni. 217
like pangs.- Inflammation and swelling ofthe mesenteric glands. - Shaking in
the abdomen, from the region of the stomach, extending to the circumference,
with increased warmth. - Swelling ofthe ingtfinal gland8: - Obstr~J£ted .flatu-
lency. . ·
Stool hard and knotty.- Soft, frequently whitish purging stools, alternatin$
with constipation. -Pappy stools.- Vehement, frothy or bloody-siimy diarrhrea.
-Dysenteric, thick-slimy, or purulent discharge, the freoes kept back._: Burn-
ing in the anus, in the evening.
Suppressed urination.- Copious, frequent urination.- Urinating at night.-
Dark, yellowish green, milky, or sharp, corroding urine.- Variegated cuticle on
the surface of the urine.
Augmented sexual passion.- An unpleasant drawing in the fore-part of the
penis. - Swelling and induration ofthe testicles. - Induration ofthe prostata.
Menstruation sometimes too late, at other times too early.- Metrorrhagia.-
Weakness, palpitation of the heart and various other complaints, before, during
a~d after menstruation.- Induration (and can~er) of the uterus.'-- Corroding leu-
corrhrea.
Obstruction of the nose, or increased secretion ofmucus.
HoarseneSB and intolerable crawling in the larynx, particularly in the morning.
-Laryngitis and tracheitis, with a contracting pain. - Tedious inclination to
bronchial intlammations.- Increased secretion of pl1legm in the trachea, with
much hawking.
Dry cough, with pressing, stinging and burning in the chest. - Inveterate
morning-cough.- Cough with expectoration of much, also. bloody phlegm.-
Phthisis pulmonalia purulenta.
Difficult breathing and tightness of the chest. - Choking rheum.
Weakness of thebreast.- Congestion of blood to the breast.- &rmg, spasmo-
dic palpi(ation ofthe heart, mo8t vehemently increased by every exertion. -:Burn- '
ing stinging tightness in the pectoral integuments. - The mamme bP.comingflabby,
and retiring.
Cramps in the back. - Tightness in the neck. - Swelling of the exterior of
the throat. -The throat growing thick, when speaking. - ~welling of the glands
ofthe throat, neck and axilla:.- Great, hard struma's. - Continual sensation of
constriction on the struma. - Yellow spots on the throat, and redness, as iffrom
suggilation.
Pains in the brachial bones, exacerbated when lying upon them, and distu,rb-
ing sleep. - Weakness in the arms, in the morning in bed.- Convulsive mo$ions
and trembling ofthe arms, hands and fingers.-Numbness ofthe fingers.-Tear-
ing in the fingers. - Twitching of the tendons ofthe fingers. - Panaritia.
Spasmodic pain in the legs, only when sitting.- Heaviness, swelliog; trem.:
bling and lameness ofthe Jags.- Rheumatic drawing in the thighs and knees.-
White swelling on the ·knee.- Cramps in the feet~ particularly at night.-:- Twitch-
ing ofthe tendons ofthe feet.- Excoriating perspiration ofthe feet.
'
19
Digitized by Coogle
218 Ipecacuanha.
91. Ipecacuanha.
Duration ofeffect: a few days.
Antidote': arnica, anenicum, cinc;hona.
-.....-
U.ed,tJIJ tm tmtidotefor: alumina, antimonii tartru, arnica, areenicum, eia-
ebona, cuprum, dulcamara, ferrum, lauroeei'88U8, opium, tpbaeum.
It aRIJUieriJ weU after: aconitum, arnica, anenicum, veratrum.
4fier it an~JU~er weU: arnica, 81'11enicum, cinchona, eoeeulWI, igDatii faba, nux
vomica.
P,.edomiMnt e.ffectl: Serulation as ifbeaten, in all the bones.- Creeping in the
joints, like numbnet!ll.- Attack1 ofiUneiJIJ, with loathing of aU food, and lUdden
great weaknu1.- Hemorrhage• from different orgam.- DisordeJ.'II from pqi&on-
. ing with sr1enic, and milwe of cinchoM. - Bilious and gtUtric complaintl of
different kinds. - Dilorder1 from taking cold, and from nocturnal de.bauche&-
Tetanm. - Sptmnodic paroxy~m~, and convullioniJ ofdifferent kinda, particularly
with children and hysteric persons. -Hysteric complaints of different kinds.-
Sporadic and tJIJiatic cholera.- AJHJPlexy.- Consumption.
Sleep with half.open eyes.- Restless •leep with whimpering and motming.-
Shocks through the limbe, when falling asleep.- Frightful dreams, with frequent
ltartling in sleep.
Shuddering, with coldneiJIJ of the limh1 and the face. - Coldne11, particularly
of the head andfee.t, and strong cold perspiration on them.- Before the chills,
unE'ftsinef!ll, stretching, relaxation, and drawing in the back. - General hea4.
llltemating with coldness and palenef!ll of the face1 and cold perspiration on the
forehead. - Thir1t during the chilli, or the coldne81J only. - Light, short chills,
succeeded by heat (frequently only in the head), with thirst and perspiration ~r­
warda.- During the fever- paroxysms, headache,· dizziness nf the head, nausea
and vomiting, cough, stitches in the chest.-Quotidian and tertian fever.- Inter-
mittentiJ, also after milwe ofcinchona, particularly with little chills, many gastric
complaints and a constringing oppression ofthe cheat.- PituitoWI, puerperal, and
putrid fevers. ·
Shrieking and crying (ofchildren).-Anxiety and fear ofdeath.-Mor01eneu,
with contempt ofall thing1.- Slanderous disposition.- Longing for many things,
without knowing, which particularly.- Fretful irritability. -Impatience.
Slow course of thinkirig.
Giddinef!ll in walking,. with tottering and staggering.
Headache, 88 if the brain were bruised, extending through all the bones ofthe
head, down to the root of the tongue.- Attach of hemicrania, with nmuea and
110miting.-Tearing in the forehead, excited and increased by touchlng.- Sting-
ing headache, with heavineiJIJ ofthe head.
The eyes red and inflamed. - Purulent mucus in the canthi- Twitching of
the eye-lidl,- Dilated pupils. ·
Epi8tlu:il. - Anosmia.
Counte111Jnce pale, bloated', with blue eirclea around the eyes.- Conwhive
twitching ofthefacial mmcle1. •. '
Digitized by Coogle
.....
Ipecacuanha. - Kalmia. 219
The lips full of aphtlue and eruption. - Sore, 8lll8l'ting lips. - Conwlri116
tcitching qfthe lipl.
Toothache, by fits, as ifa tooth would be drawn out.
All parts of the mouth painfully tender. - Collection of much aliva in the
mouth.
Pain in the throat, when ewallowing, as from paralyeis of &he tongue and
pharynx.
Insipid taste....... Beer tastea stale.- Smoking tobacco t88te8 nauaeoua, and.
causes vomiting.- Great averlion to Gllfootl,"tmd Wtithing ofit.
NtJtUea, as iforiginating in the stomach, with collection of much aliva, and
empty eructation. - Dry vomiturition.- Vomiting of fiJhtJt laM been drunk and
wen, or ofthin bile, or greeA, bitterish sour water with au acrid smell, and Kelc-
tinotu alime.-Hematemeei&-Vomiting with perspiration, heat, offensive breath
and thirst.- Vomiting, fiJith tlillrrluM.-Vomiting, immediately after atooping.-
Nauaea and vomiting ofpregnant women. ·
Ezce11ive •en•ation of anguuh in the •tOI'IUICh and 8CI'Obicultu.- Senaation of
emptiness and jldbbine11 in the 1t011U1eh. - Gastritis.~ Griping about the acrolJi-
eulus and region of the hypoohondres.
Rafting, pinching belly-ache, excessively increa8ed by the least motion, relieved
by rest.- Hy•teric abdominal cramp•.- Cutting pain about the navel, with shud-
dering.- Flatulent colic.- Enteritis.
Purging, fermented •tooZ.. - Tedious diarrhrea. ::- Green, lemon-ciolored,
putrid-stinking, bloody and bilious llimy tlillrr"-.- Dylenteric 1tOOZ., with white
ftoeks, succeeded by ten~us.
Urine turbid, with a lateritious aediment.-Little red urine.-Bioody urine.-
Purulent discharge from the urethra, with biting pain&
Urging preesure towards the genitals and the anus.-M~rorrlwgitJ.-Aborttu.
ln11eterate grG11etlo.- Ob•truction qfthe no1e.-Catarrh.-Tracheitis.
Cough, particularly at night, with painful aJ!oeks in the h~ and stomach,
with loathing, choking andwmiting.- Dry cough, from a contracting tickling
in the larynx, extending to the deepest end of the bronchia. - Dry, shaking
'~ic cough, fiJith obltruction qfthe bretJth, even to suffocation.- Suffocating
cough, with sti.ft'neaa of the body and blueneaa of the face.- Hooping-cough.
Rupiration anziOUI andluuty.- SptJifTIOdic tightne11 o/the che1t, VJith con-
traction in the thrQIJt and asthmatic breathing.- Sighing rupirtJtion.- Oppres-
sion ofthe chest and short breath, 88 from much dUst.- A6thma MilltJri.
Peetoral cramps, from vapoure ofcopper and arsenic.- Soreness in the chest.
- Palpitation qfthe hetwt•
. Cramp~ in the bflck, bending f()f'fi)(Jf'tl or backuHwd. - Conwlrit1e jerb of the
leK•tmdfe«.
ga. Kalmia.
JJelai• lalifolla.- A•trle• l•rtl.
•rapt-• of 1ilio •-•1wiU •• pa•li•••• I• ue "Truoaotio•o"' of ... Aoa•-r•
Digitized by Coogle
-
220 Krameria.
gg, Krameria.
Kr-ma lri..4ra. - (.llataUia.)
Duration ofeffect: about two weeks.
Predomifumt effect.: Rending in the limbe. - Cont~tion in the flexors. -
Stinging soreness, twitching on different places.- Hre1TW1Thage1.
Sleepiness, particularly after dinner.- Late sleep.- Frequent awaking and
watchfulness.- Frightful awaking,.with trembling, anxiou~ne88 and 'rear. · ·
Prevailing chilliness and shivering, particularly in the evenirig..:;_Night-sweats..
Fretful, unwilling, and quarrelsome. · ·
Headache, 01 ifthe head would lmr1t, particularly when eitting bent. - Jerk-
ing, tearing and stinging in the head.- Congeltion ofblood towarth the head, with
heat and heaviness in it. . ·
Pain in the eye, as if it were fastened with a screw and immoveable.- Con-
traction and burning in the eyes, particularly in the evening. - Inflammation of'
the ~~elerotis. - A sensation , as if a membrane were growing over the eyes. ~
The eyes,cemented together, at night, and running in the morning.- Twitching
and quivering ofthe eyes and lids.- White spot before the eyes, which prevents
seeing.- Myopia. ·
Otalgia.-Itching and stinging in the ears.-Ringing and tingling in the ears.
at night. ·
Itching in the nose.- Inflamed, scurfy nostrils, with burning.- Epista:ris.
Heat in the face.- Tearing ,pain in the maxillary bones.-:-Burning vesicle!! on
the red part of the upper-lip.
Toothache, particularly in the evening after going to bed, or in the morning,
mostly rending, or jerking, or grubbing....:.Throobing Pain in ihe teeth.-Bleed-
ing of the teeth. - Painful coldnesS, and sensation of elongation of the teeth. -
SOur blood coming out of the gums, when sucking.
· DrynE'ss of the mouth, at night. - Tightness and burai~ on ~ke tongue. -
Collection of water in the mouth.
Pain in the throat, mostly when swallowing ealiva.- ~pasmodic contraction
in the throat, which interrupts the voice. ·
Insipid taste, in the morning in bed. - Thirst in the evening.- Ano~,
, with loathing of food and drink. - Eructation, with the taste of what has been
eaten, or empty.- Vehement hickupping, with pain in the stomach from it.
Nause~ and loathing, particularly at nig~t, with choking and vomiting of
wh~ has been eaten.-Aqueous vomits.
Pain in the 1tomach, as if it were ulceratetf. - EJ:celftve diste11.fton of the
stomach. - Pai~f~l constriction in the stomach , sometimes disappearing from
eructation. - Sensation in the stomach and above the scrobiculus, as ifall were
gashed.-·Heat and burning in the stomach.
Stinging and stitches in the hypochondres. - Drawing and sensation ofcold·
ness in the umbilical region. - Griping in the a)ldomeu and its sides, sometimes
attended with burning. -l\'lotions in the sides of the abdomen, as from something
alive. - Stinging, pinching and contraction in the groin.
Digitized by Coogle
......
Krameria. - Kreosoamr..
&ool intermittent and Juml, with strong urgiDg tmd protl'll8ion of the-lamaor-
rhoidal tumours. - Ineffectual efforts to stool, with urging pains in the back.·-
&ft purging &tool6, preceded by cutting in the bowels, and burning in the anus,.
befOre and after evacuation. - Bloodf cliMTiw!a. -After·stool, pain in the head..
as ifit would fty open. .
Frequent urging to -urinate, tDith t1 ...U dVchMge.- Frequent, inereaaed
discharge of urine, also at night.- Pale- urine.- The urine soon deposits a cloud
and becomes turbid.
Urging downwards in the groin, towards the genitale, succeeded by leucorrhQ!II.
-Meme•· too early, of too long a duratiOn and too pro.fme, with pains in the ab-
. d~men and back. - MetrorrluJgia.- ~rtue.
Dryness of the nose, with frequent eneezfug.- Gravedo, with total obstruction
of the nose.
Dry cough, with tickling in the larynx; and ulcerous pain in the chest.
Preeeure in the chest, with any email exertion,. aUended with abort breath.-
Painful constriction of the chest.- Stinging in 1M the&t, particu1arly wb.en as-
cending steps, with obstruction ofbreath.- Congeetioo ofblood towards the breast,
with heat and difficult breathing. ·
Pain in the email of the back, and back, ae il'beaten.- Drawing tightness
from the neck, along the entire spine._. 8tifJ'Defll flf the neck.- Rending in the
neck~ with heaviness of the head.
Tearing in the shoulders, upper· and fore-arms and the wriete......; Painfbl
squeezing contraction in the elbows and fingers. ·
Drawing and tearing in the thighs, knees, legs, teet and toes.- Tigbtneee
and burning in the thighs.- Twitching in the thighs, calves and feet.
i 00. Rreosotum.
Antidote•: arsenioeuw acidtmt, nux TOmiea.
A.fter it amwer well: arsen. ae., phosphorus.
Consumption• .....; Eruptions on the skin. - Scabies humida. -Inveterate, ma-
lignant, putre!Cent and gang:rl!fWIU ulcer&.- Wounds.- HtmiOf'f'lwge•from dif-
ferent Of'gam. - Suppurations ofa good or btullrind. - Carcinomatous ulcers. .:_
~~ .
Tinea humida.- Plica polonica.
Tootlwche of different kind&. -Decflyed teeth. - Spongy, uloerated, easily.
bleeding, ICOf'butie gum.. . .
Hmmorrlwgia, from the note and moutA.
~crous ulcers in the throat and muce&
[)y•enteric bloody 1tooll.- Diarrh~
·Many and rigid erections.- Inveterate leucorrb~
Phthisis pulmonalis pwmlenta.- Sore DlRJDIJ1te.- Cancer on the breuL
Digitized by Coogle
- Lachesis.- Lactuca.- Lamium.
f 0t. Lachesis.
'l'ho orapto•o or lhlo very i•purtanl ,...eoly,will Ito poalltia••• ia till "T..aoaotioaa or lho Nonlo-
A•erioaa Boaeopathio Ac...emy".
f 02. Lactuca.
/delve• oir•••·- Stro•y-•e.,t•tll•tlve•.- Germ. Qi(tlllllitlo.
Antidote•: Camphors, vinum.
' Pains in the limbe, particularly the shoulders.- Great weakneM and re~­
tion.- Retarded pulse.- Weakness in the legs, which causes tottering in walk-
ing. - Ezce1rive ltDeUing ofthe whole body.- Selll!lltion of lightness ofthewhole
body.
Long, restlees sleep, with weariness and great exhaustion after a~aking.
Coldness, particularly in the limbs.- Intermittent fever.- Rheumatic and
DerTOUS fevers.
Giddiness.
Dilated or contracted pupill.- Obecuration ofsight.
Accumulation of phlegm in the cavity of the mouth, and the tongue furred
with mucus.
Prell81ll'e in the stomach, with nausea.- SeiUI&tion ofcoldness in the stomach.
Constipation.- Diarrhrea.
Oppressed respiration.- Dry lpGm!Odic cough.
Selll!lltion ofcoldness in the chest.
f 03. Lamium.
Drawing tearing in the limbe. - Great reetleesneee of body and mind, with
tremor of the limbs.
Ulcers, with rasping burning pains.
Chills, with general weakness, or with &nxiousnesa.
Burning heat of both cheeks, without redness .or thirst.- Continual thirst,
except during the chills.
Great, lsmenting sadness. -Great restlessness and anxiety, which allowa of
n& rest in any place.
Headache, deep in the brain, worst after rising from stooping.- Headache,
e:uce~ted when rising from sitting, relieved in sitting. - Headache, u if the
brain wer.e compressed from all sides, with a most violent pain in the dlntre.-
Very tenae sealp, particularly in the region ofthe sutUra t:oronalis.- Great mobil-
ity. ohhe bead.
• Digitized by c ·oogle
Lamium. - Laurocerasus. 221
Bight and hearing diminiebed.
A thick phlegm of a eour taete, hawked out from the filuees.
Bunting in the middle of the breut, or ill the a1110phagull, after eating or
drinking.
Nauaea and vomiting ofwhat bu been eaten, with heat, greu wealmees, ex~
haustion, and darkening before the eyes.
&ee.ive distelllion of the abdomeo.- Griping belly-ache, aa from obetrueted
&tulency, not relieved by dieeharge of wind. -Strong agitation in the hypo-
gaatrium, u ifthe meJUiell wo~d violently btll'l5t forward.
Papeecent, hard atool, with diacharge of blood.
Urging to urinate, with a very amaU urinal diacharge.-A moiatneea eeeaping
from the urethra.
Me081l8 too early.- Leucorrhtu., eometimee with biting on the geni&a18.
Weak, ·infirm voice, like one in great pain.
Want ofbreath, when apeaking, with aenation ofwealmela in the cheat.
Pre81Rlre in the cheat, which produeea anxiety, with nauaea.
Creeping torpor and nUJJllnle. of the back of the hand, and _
ball of the thumb,
iacreaaed by touching, and attended with a ruping painfulne.a o( the akin, when
moviog the hand.- Drawing tearing in the tingen.
f 04. Laurocerasus.
p.,.,...,z..rour...,,. - Poi•-- erelurrr-l•r•l.- Oe..... Kirodlmur.
DuNtitm ofeffect: about 6-8 daya.
Atatidotu: Camphor&, coft'ea toeta, ipecacuanha, opium. I· ·
PMiomiunt e.ffeeu: Conindeiwe jerlu tmd ~ at14elu. -lnflemmatione
ofinternal orpna.-Trembling, particularly of the banda and kneee, when exer-
cising in the open air. - 8tultlen toeGknue tDith uculiwe 1let"'IIU re~G.Ntima.­
Af10Plu:itl, tDith partlly.V qfthe limN.- Syncope.
Frequent gapmg, with ahuddering and gooae-akin. -Invincible eleepineea in
the daytime, and early in the evening.- Letlw.rgy.- Coma ftgil. - SJeepiee.
DMI, from excitement and attacka o(heat.- Heat~g, tmriJtu tlremru.
CIHllinul tmtl 1Aaking chilli, not extinguiahable by the warmth of a ltoTe, or
the bed.- Shuddering, with gooae-akin, IJUCCfleded by burning &eu.-CoUneu
oftAe entire body, particularly the feet, and chiefly in the open air.
Joylela dejection. - Great, fearful anziety and rutle11neu, fl)hich flritlaer
allotD• him to remain in any place, ,.,. to •leep at night, diaappearing in the open
air.-Avenion to mental labour.- Hutineee, and 1'88lme8e of wilL
w.-.....,.-laabilay to think.-~ • .~.
&wpefaction, with fiilling down uaconeioualy.- ~ and gtMU.U.,
with eleepinees.- Gitldine11, when riaing from stoOping or Bitting, "' if g.,.
eoere bq'ore the eru tJfltl .u tJriag• fiiOIMg aroud.
Digitized by Coogle
Laurocerasus.
Moping he.l&e, with depreesing laeatlineu, and a 1enaatioa, u if the brain
10ere falling fonotwd. •nd ltriking on the Mull.- Preesiog headache, II1GIR Tebe-
ment in tbe nom. - Continual eoolne88 in the head.- Congution of blood to-
ttHJrdl the head, ~h heat and throbbing in it.- The headaehe vanishes, with a
eense of coldness on the vertex, in the forelaead and in the nape, dowa to the
small ofthe back.
Burning in the eyes.- Drynf!IIB ofthe eya-The eyes tDidelg or halfopened,
diltorted, protruded, ltaring.- Motionie., dilated pupill.- Obeeuration offlight.
- AU things appear larger.
Countenance pule, sallow, and gray.-Sunken or bloa&ed, swollen eountenance.
-Spasmodic distoreion of the features ofthe fuce.- Trilmtu.
Mouth dry and full of phlegm.- Froth.from the mouth. - Sewre ofcoldnel8 on
the tongue.- Speech.lesme8s, after apoplexia.
Sore throat, like a painful drawing along the OlBOphagus, with and without
swallowing. - Spasm in the fau.ceB and tUopMgUB.- Audible roBing of liquids
through the <esophagus.- Difficult, impetkd 81DOilowing.- Senae ofcoldne88, or
heat and burning in the throat andfauces.- Oeeophagiti&
Tute sweetish or acrid and irritating.- Vehement thirllt, with a dry mouth. -
Anorexia, with aversion to aU food.- Great hunger.
Eructation ofmere wind, or with the taste of what bas beea eaten.- theflt
loathing, nausea and vomiting ofwhat hae been eaten.- Black vomit&
PreBBUre in the stomach.- Faintish cardialgia.- Great anxiety in the region
of the scrobiculus. -Sense ofeoldne88, or hnaing in the stomach and scrobieulus.
- Gastritis. .
Pain below the navel, as ifthe bowels were being gashed.- A swelling felt in
the left side of the hypogaetrium, of the size ofa walnut.- Colic-like contraction
t.md cutting in the .abdomen.- Senaation ofcoldness, or hea{and burning i• the
abdomen. - Enteritis. - Flatulent eolic. - Rolling and rumbliag in the abdomen,
and stomach. ,
Constipation.- Hard solid stool, wit1a pressing.- DUwrlueG, with ttrulfTIUBr
cutting and burning in the anus.-Gteen elimy diarrhcea, with contraction in the-
groin.- Involuntary stoolB.- Paralysis of the sphincter ani.
Retention of urine.-Watery, sallow urine.- Frothy, acrid urine. -Thiill.
reddish sediment. - Involuntary urination. - Paralysis of the bladder. - Pain
about the region of the stomach, when uriJlllting.
Increased eexual passion.-Gangrene of the genitals.
Menses too early ancl too profuse , with liquid blood. - During menstruation,
rending in the head, toothache and cutting in the bowels.
91Jetruction and ~~ense offulness in the nose.
Hoarseneu, rooghneu, and itchi11g in the tlwoct and ltwgfu:. - Seoeation of
swelling in the larymt.-Deep bass-voiee.- 8parmtHlic conBtrictWn ofthe trachea.
8/aort cough from tickling and itebing in the larynx. - Coughing up blood.-
Copious, blood-spotted, gela_tinatu ezpectoration. - Plthirill pulmonaliB purulent«
.,.,..
Slovt, tDUk, auiotu respiratW..- Snoring, r.ulift&' ~- Breathing
Digitized by Coogle
•
Lauroceras\ls. ~ Ledum.
obstructed in the region of the stomach.- Tightneu ofthe che1t• 88 if the lunge.
could not extend themselves sufficiently.-Paralysis of the lungs.
Pressure in the t;hef!t. - Oppreesiog conttriction ofthe chut. - Burning and
stitches in the chest.- Nervous inflammation of the lungs.- Pain in the region of
the heart.-Slow, irregular heart-beating.
· Rending and stinging in the shoulders and upper-arms. - Burning of the .
hands, with distension of the veins.-Tremor of the hands.- Rough, ·scaly skin
between the fingers. .
Rending and stinging in the .!mees.- Numbn~ of the feet.
105. Ledum.
1.14- p•l••tre.- Mull-tell. - Gem. 8••pfporot.
Duration ofeffect: 6-7 weeks, in chronic cases.
' /
Antidote: camphora. ,
It answers well after : lycopodium.
A/ter it answers well: sepia. ..
----
fredominant effects: Pressing, or pressing tearing arthritic pains in the lim~
worst in the evening, in the warmth qftAe betl. - Numbnees and torpor of single
limbs.- Stinging, tearing, throbbing and disabling pains in the joints, increased
by motion. - Only the pains in the joints are exacerbated by motion, not the
ot!l~J:'S.- Nody gout in the joints.- Hot, tense, hard tumefactions, with rending
,pains. - Dropsical swelling of single parts, and the entire skin of the body. -
ColdneBB and deficiency of vital warmth. - Intolerance of the warmth of the bed,
which·causes heat and burning in the limbs.
Itching and fret-ting on the akin, with burning after scratching. - Biting itch-
ing, as if from lice. - Miliary eruptions.- An eruption resembling sheep-pox,
which peels off.- Blueish spots on the body, like petechia.- Dry, vehemently
itcJring herpes.- .Furuncle•.
Great drowsineBB in the daytime, like como, with great inclination to lie down.
- Nooturnal sleeplettne88, with restlees tossing about, startling, ·and delirious
imaginations, when closing the eyes. - Restlees, anxious dreams. - Wanton
dr!!3m8, with seminal emissions.
Strong chilli and 11huddering, witb cold limb•. - Heat on the hands and feet,
in the evening.- Evening-fever, with pains in the head and eyes.- Easily per-
8piring, when walking, particularly on the forehead, the perspiration being ofa
sourish odour.
Anxiousness. - Easily frightened. - Inclination to anger and vexation. -
Morose peevishness.- Misanthropy.
Jnsanity. - Great gravity.
Intoxication. - Moping giddineBB, so as to cause falling forwards or back-
wards, most vehement, when stooping.
··DizzinesS in the head, with painful shaking of the brain, when stepping wrong.
-Stupefying, dull headache. - Pressin~ headache over the entire brain, 88 if
Digitized by Coogle
• I
Ledum.
from a weighL- Rending pain in the head and eyes, which are in&med, attended
with fever in the evening.
Creeping itching on the scalp and the forehead, 88 itfrom lice. - Euily tak-
ing cold, in the bead.
Itching in the internal canthi. - Burning pruring m the eyu, particularly in
the evening.- l'!flammation ofthe eye•, with a painless cementing by suppuration.
- Pungent n.cnning of the eyu. - Dilatedpupih.- Dimaightedne111, with glim-
mering and glistering before the eyes.
Buzzing' in the ears. - Ringing-in the ea,.,, - DylteOia, 88 from obstruction
ofthe ears, after repeatedly cutting the hair.
The nose painful to the touch. - Burning heat in the noee. - Epistaxis.
Pale countenance.- Red pimple• in the face orad on tJaefurehetltl, like thoee of
a sot, with a stinging pain, when touched.- Sealy, dry herpu m theface, burn-/
ing in the open air. - Pimples and fun.cndu on theforeAetltl.- Vehement tearing
pain in the face, at night, alternating with stitches iu one tooth, and terminating
with shuddering and profound sleep.
· Stench of the mouth. - Spitting blood. - Hemorrhllgitl.
Stinging painl in the throtJt, with or without swallowin(.- 8el188tion in the
throat 88 from a plug, with stinging, when BWallowing. .
Mouldy or bitter taste..;_ Great thirst for cold water.- Want of appetite and
aoon satiated.- When eating quickly, a contracting pain in the sternum.
Namea, tohen ~pitting out.- .Wllter-brah, with a coJic.like belly4Che.
Prumre in the 1tomaeh q.fter a mwll meal.
Pain in the abdomen, 88 it the bowels were bruiaed.- Drawing pain in 'the
abdomen.- Cutting in the abdomen, in the evening.- Dym.terie beUy·GChe.-
AICitu.- Frequent discharge of wind.
Constipation. - F&lCulent diarrhrea, with slime and blood.
Frequent urging to urinllte, rDith a m&all dilcluJrge. - Diminished eeeretion of
urine. -Frequent pa~ring ofcopiotu urine.- Diabetes.-SweDing of the urethra.
• - Gonorrhrea.
Vehement, continued erection&- Bloody or watery ~et~~iuZ emiuioru.- In-
&mmation of the glans.
Men~e1 too early and too profuse.
Cough, preceded by a m.Jfocating OO.tn.cction ofbretlth. - Straining, spaSmodic
cough.- Hooping cough.-Night- or moming.cough, toitA purulent ezpectoratilm.
-Greenish offensive expectoration.- PAtAim pulmonalw purulentca. -Cough,
with ezpectoration qfbright..,.etl blood.
Breathing tight and painfuL-SpalmOdic, hickupping reqiration, 88 after fret-
ful whining. - Tightness of the chest, when ascending.stepe.- Con.tringept
tightneu ofthe chut, exacerbated when moving and walking. ·
Pain in the cheat, when breathing, 88 itsomething alive were in iL- Stitches
in the chest, particularly when raising and moving the arms.- Sheep-pox on the
breast. - Biting itching on the chest, with red spots and raah.
Pains in the back and lumbar region, like a 1tjffnu1, after rittillg. - Rending
&om the back into the oCciput, particularly in the evening.-Vehement epaiJIDOdic
peio aboYe the bipe, in the evening, with·o~tion of breath.
DigitizedbyGoogle ·
Ledum. ...:... Lycopodium.
Pressing ·retuling in the tJNM. - Stinging in the shoulder, when raising and
moving the arm. - Prea~ing pt~in in the joint ofthe thoulder tJnd elbotD, increiJietl
by motion.- Shee~pox on the upper-arm& - Tearing in the hands and fingers.
- Arthritic nodet on the torilt• ond jinger-joint1. - Perspiration on the palms of
the bands.- Itching rash on the wrist.- Tremor ofthe hands, when moving
them and grasping.
Sensation as ifbea&en, and aorene11 in the perioateum of the thigh-bone and in
the knees. - Tightening atiffnua ofthe knees, with jarring and knacking when
walking.- Spasmodic tightness in the knees, calves and heels.- Tense hord
~Uing ofthe knee, With •tinging and pressing tearing pt~im and hardness ofthe
whole leg. - Hot 110eUing ofthe thighl, above and below the knee, with a sting·
ing drawing pain.- Stiffness of the feet.- The soles aching, when walking,, as
ifraw.- Tedious ~toelling ofthe feet.- Cutting pain in the toes, at night in sleep.
-Soft swelling ofthe boll oftbe big toe, with pain, when threading on. - Pain-
ful podagra.
f 06. Lycopodium. ·
DuratiOn ofeffect: about 40 days.
An.ttdotu: camphora, puiiiRtills.
It 11111toerl toell qfter: calcis carb., silica.
After it tJnltoer toeU: grapbites, ledum, phosphorus, pulsatilla.
Predominant ejfect1: Drawing and tearityf in the limbs, mostly ot night and
~hen at rest, also every second afternoon• ..:.... Stinging pclinl in the internal and
-external parts.- Painful stiffness of the muscles an4 joints, frequently with numb-
.aus and imenaibility ofthe limbs.- The limbs asleep.- Ealily injuredfrom lift·
ing IOmethityf.- Spasm and contrtJCtion oflingle limbs.-Involuntary lpai'ITIIHlic
eztenlion and COllltrtJCtion ofsingle muscles and limbs.- Shocks and jerkl in lingle
limb. and.the whole body, when asleep and waking.- Spasms in internal and ex-
ternal parts, also at night. - Epileptic spasmodic paroxySID8. - Bad results of ·
vexation. - Ga1tric complaint1. - Chlorotic affections. - Influenza. - Jn1tam.
mation of interior organs; also nervous.- Inflammatory and dropsical 1welling
oe·m.gle parts and ~ns. - Vorices' also toith pregnant toomen. - Arthritic
nade1. - Glandular swelling. - &rophulmu and rhtJChitic complaintl. - Oatitil,
rDitA noctUrnal paim. - Corie1. - The complaints frequently are eXacerbated
at 4 o'clock-in the afternoon, and relieved in the evening at 8 o'clock, weakness
remaining. - PeriodicaUy returning complaints. - Particularly suitable after a
previous application ofcalcis carboiu..s. ·
General agitation of the blood, particularly in the evening, with tremor and
restlessneSs. - A sensation, as if the cirCulation of the blood stood still- Inward
•eakne11.- Weakness and lallitude in the limb•, particularly perceptible, tohen tJt
fflt, or in the morning, when awaking. - Aversion to motion and continual in-
. elination to lie down. - Total relaxation, with the lower maxilla hanging down,
e!loudy, lialfopen eyes, and slow l't'Spiration through the mouth.- Great emoci•
lion, also with children...:.. Dejiciency ofvf:tal warmth.- Great tluire, to go into
Digitized by Coogle
· Lycopodium.
the open air, or great aversion to it, with increased tenderness to cool air. -
Easily taking cold.
Fretting and itching in the daytime, when getting hot, or in the ev.ening, be-
fore going to bed.- Painful eruption.- Nettle-rash.- Great red spots on the
skin:- ltcl1ing maculre hepaticre.·- Many summer-freckles."- Insen~ible; yel-
lowish-brown, shrunk, or oozing, ruppurating herpes, with many deep cmcks
and thick crusts. - Great furuncles, periodically returning. - meeding, stinging
ulcers, burning when being dressed, with tearing and itching at night. - Galling
ofchildren.- Warts.~ Chilblains.
Frequent, also interrupted gaping. - Sleepiness in the daytime, and early in
the evening, with late sleep from too many thoughts. - Restless, fanciful sleep,
with anxious, frightful dreams andfrequent frightful awaking. - Jerks, shriek-
ii)g and loud laughing in sleep. - Lying on the left side is very difficult, as pal-
pitation of the heart and stitches forbid it. -Intolerance of lying at night, Q.O
position is right. - Night-mare. '
Chills in the evening, sometimes on one side, sometimes every other day, with
heat alone, or succeeded by perspiration without beat.- Tertian fever; with sour
vomits and bloated face and hands after the chills. - Fltuhes of heat. - Burning
beat, with short respiration. - NenJOtu fevers, also with approaching paralytic
affeeti~n of the brain.- Easily perspiring in the dGytime, evenfrom a smaU nwtion,
particularly 'in the face. - Night-sweats, frequently offensive, or viscous, and par-
ticularly on the breast and back.
Silent melancholy and grief, with despera&ion about his soul's welfare. - An-
;riety, 'particularl_y in the pit of the stomach, with dolefulness and inclination to
weep, mostly after vexation, or at the approach ofothers. - Avoiding company.-
Fear of being alone. - Lamenting irritability and delicacy. - Fretfulness. - Ca-
price. - Insanity and furor, which shows itself in envy, reproaches, arrogance
and dictatorial conduct. - Mild, yielding mind. - Extremely indifferent.- Aver-
sion.to speak. ·
Fatigued from mental iabour. - Impeded mental activity. -Unconsciousness.
-Inability, to express one selfproperly, and misapplying words and 8yllabies.-
Confused talking.
Dizziness and reeling, as if intoxicated.- Vertigo, when stooping, or in'a hot
room, with inclination to vomit.
Headache, from vexation. - Headache with a faintislt !!E'nsation and great in-
ternal restlessness.- Headache when shaking· or turning the bead, also when
etepping out. - Headache above the eyes, immediately after breakfaet. - Hemi-
crania in the evening• increased to an intolerable degree by mental labOur.- Pres-
nng pain in the head, as if•&om a nail, or with etraining, increased when lying;
- Rending headache in the whole head, extending to the eyes,'nose slid the teeth,
in the afternoon or at night, particularly in the forehead, sometimes connected.
with lying down. - Stinging headache. - Throbbing in the head, in the evening
after lying down. ...... Congestion of blood to the head and heat in it, also in the
morning in bed, when raising the body. .,...:. Shaking and vibration in the brain on
eiery'etep.- InCipient paralytic affeetion of the brairi.
Boring, eeraping and tearing, e:rternaUy on the head, tJt night.- Involuntary
Digitized by Coogle
Lycopodium.
motion and coavuJeive shaking ofthe head.- Eaeily ~· eoJd in the head.-
Stinking, exce.ively ~Uppurating eruptioM on the head.-The hair growing gray.
-Baldna1.
Pru~Ure in the eyu.- Biting burning, and •tinging in tAe eyu (and lids), par- •
Ueularly in the ttle1&Wag at candle-light.-Ra8ping leU:Ition in the eye•. -Sensa·
·tion of coldnesa in the eyes, in the evening. - lnfonnmatioa ofthe egu and lid&
-Fungus hematodes on the comes.- Hoideolum.- The eyes c-med by sup-
puration at night, and running in the day. - Twitching of the eye-lids. - Du.lty
ditMightednu1. - Myopia. - Preibyopia•..._ Hemiopia perpendioularis. - The
letters running together, when reading.- Darkening, glietering and sparkling IJe.
fore' the eyes. - The eyes dazzled and irritated, in the evening, at candle-light.
Otalgia in the open air. - Congestion of blood to the ears. - Suppurating and
runn~~g eGrl.- &me ofhearing uumvely delicste, and affected by every noise.
sound, music, organ &c.- Tingling and bvzzing in the ear~.- Dy•ecoia.
The no~tril. ulcerated, eeurfy and.obstructed by suppuration at night.- Swel-
ling of the nose, with an acrid, stinking, excoriating dieeharge.- Convulsive mo-
tion of the nual mueeles. ..:... Epistuie and discharge of blood from the nose, when
blowing it.- Ezeulively delicate 1eme of~meUin.g.
Palenu1 ofthe countenance, increased in the evening. - Earth-colored, yellow
coeuatentmce, with deep wriJiklu, blue circles around the eyes, and blue lips.-
CireUDI8Cribed redne88 of the cheeks. - Red, bloated face, with red spots and
eruption. - Swelling and teusion in the faee. - Rending in the fueial bones.-
Twitching and eonvu1sive motion of the fueial mueelea. - Frequent aUocka of heat
in the face. - Itching eruption in theface. - CJ'U8ta lactea. - Summer·freeklee.
. Lipe pale or blueish.- Convulsive motions of the mouth, and dletoreion of the
angles of the mouth. - Swelling of the upper-lip.- Eruption 111d eoren688 on the
Iqle and angles of the mouth. - Itching eruption on the chin. - &Delling ofthe
aubmazillory gland6.
Tooth-eehe, only at night, or relieved by warm liquids and the warmth of the
bed.- Dull tooth-ache, with IWellin.g ofthe·cheek.- Spaamodic drawing, rending
and jerking in the teeth, particularly when eating. - Gnaahing with the teeth.-
The teeth becoming yellow. - Fistula on the gums.-Swelling ofthe gums, ~th
pulling, tearing and stinging. - Ulcer ofthe gums.
Dry mouth witlwut tlrirlt, with tightne88 of the parts, heavy tongue- and in-
di8tinct speech.- Numbne88 of the interior of the mouth and the tongue. - ;pu-
trid ltench from the mouth.- Hemorrhagia.- Filthy, furred tongue.- Involun-
tary motions ofthe tongue.
The throat ae ifconstricted, with impeded swallowing.- Dryneu ofthe th.root.
1..:..8oreneae of the pharynx. - Burning in the pharynx, with thinot at night.-
I'/ffl4m1nation of the throat mid ffJUI:el, with 1ti~ pam.; which furbids swal-
lowing. - Swelling and euppur&Uon ' of the glands of the interior throat. -
Chancre-like ulceration ofthe toneils. - JltJvking up phlegm.
Ageusia.- Slimy or bitter tute in the fiiiiUIA, in the morning, with.naueea.-
&ur talte, particularly in the mornio«, alee offood.- Absent or vehement thirst.
- Lol• ofappetite, with the fint bit.-Excessive hunger.- Bulimia.- Aversion
to cooked, warm fOod, rye-bread, meat, coffee, and BlllOking &obaeco. - Duire
for IWt:et thing•. - Indigeeaon of hard food.- After meals, pain in the liver,
20
Digitized by Coogle
Lycopodium.
oppression and fulnu• of1M clae1t mad abdomen, nauaea, beat in the bead, Mhul#
of the face, tblobbing and shaking through the whole body, and bot band&-
Sour taste and diarrbrea, after taking milk.
Much eructation, in the afternoon.- Fatty, burning, .our eructation.- Sour
regurgitation offood, particularly ofmilk. - Heart-bum, particularly afteimeals.
-AttGCb ofvehement Aickupping.
NtJU6eG in the room, which disappears in the open air, or vice versa.- Fre-
quent continued nmuea. - Nausea when riding in a carriage.- Wambling in the
·stomach, in the morning.- WGter-brMh, also every other day, with a bitter water
flowing out.-Nocturnal vomiting ofwhat has been eaten, and of bile.- Hllllilate-
mesis.
Cardialgia, with chilliness and deadness of the bands, after a little cold.-Peri-
odical pain in the stomach, relieved by the warmth of the bed. - Pre11Ure in the
1tomGCh, in the evening, tzho lifter every meal, with a bitter taste. - Contracting
cramp in the stomach, renewed by taking. wine. - SweUing in the •crobicultU,
with painfulness to the touch. - Cmacer ofthe •tMnGch. - The cloths oppressive
about the stomach.
Tightness about the hypochondres, as from a hoop. ""7" Pinching, stinging, sore-
ness, pre1ring and tightne11 in the liver.- Cramping pain in the diaphragm,
and bruising pain in the liver, when stooping• ..:._ Chronic hepotitil. -Induration
of the liver. ·
Pressingabdominal pains.- Fulne11 and diltenlion ofthe •tomGCh andabdBmen.
- Heaviness in the abdomen. - Indurations in the abdomen. - Ascites. - Con-
tracting crampa.in the abdomen, which is tense.- Rending, drawing and griping
in the abdomen and its sides. - Pinching in the abdomen and its sides. - Grasp-
ing and rafting in ~e hypogastrium, with obstruction of breath. - Cutting in the
epigastrium. or Rending stinging, pulsation and urging outwards in the inguinal
ring. - Hernia inguinalis. - Cramping pain in the abdominal muscles, particu-
larly at night.- Ob1tructed.flatulency. -Defective discharge ofwind.- Clucking
and roUing in the abdomen. .
Conltipation, 1ometime1 tedimu. - Costi~"• with ineffectual efforts to stool,
and difficult evacuation. - Diarrhala and constipation of pregnant women. -
Pale stools, with a putrid stench. - Slime or blood discharged with the stcM!L
-Lumbriooides.- Distension of the abdomen, after evacuation.- Itching and
•training in the antU.- Cutting, stinging and soreness in the rectum.~ Cramps
in the rectum. - H~emorrboidal tumors in the rectum and anus, with protrusion
of the rictum. - Itching eruption on the anus. ..... Pains in the anus, after eating
and evacuatil)g. ·
Urging .to urinGte and too]requent urination. - Dark urine, with a yello'Y' or
reddish aedimeat.·- Grmtel in the kidney1. - Rasping sensation, when urinating.
- Itching in tire 1n'ethra, during and after urmation. - Stinging pinching and
cutting in the bladder and urethra.- Gonortbala secundaris.- Uretrorrhagia.
Stinging, drawing and cutting in the glans. - Balanoblennorrhrea, with dark·
red, biting eruptiolll!l behind the glans. - Galling between the I!Cl'Otum and thigh.
- Dropeical swelling of the genitals..._ &culive or dejicient 1ezualpa~lion.­
Disinclination to cohabit. - Impotence qf some year• ltanding.- Weak, defective
erections. - Absent or exce&llive seminal emissions. - The eemen too quickly
Digitized by ~oogle
Lycopodium. 231
or too late diseharged, during coition. - Falling asleep during coition. - After
eoition or seminal emiaaion, lassitude. - Proetatic ftuid eecaping.
Itching, burning and fretting on the pudenda. - Preseing outward above the
pudenda, extending to the vagina, when stooping. - Wind escaping from the
vagina. - Tediotu tlrJnu• of t"M Hgina. -Galling between the thighs, on the
pudenda. - During and after coition, burning in.the vagina. - MemtnuJtion (too
early) too yrofiue, tmd too long.- Men&eS suppreaeed for a long time, by fright.-
Before ~MUJtion, chills, Ndne11, melo.Mholy. - At the commencement of tlte
mell888, cuuing in the abdomen. -During menstruation, delirium with weeping;
headache, 80Urne88 in the mouth, 'sour.vomits, pains in the abdomen, back and
small ofthe back, swelling of the feet, syncope. - Retarded or too weak mell8tru· _
ation.-Metrorrhagia.-Milky, yellowish, reddish and corroding leucorrhom, pre-
ceded by cutting in the hypogastrium. - Propensity to abortion, with varices on
the pudenda.
Coryza.- GrtJ'IIedo, With dizzineea in the head and burning in the forehead.-
Ob1tructetl 1101triU, particularly at night, respiration is only poBIIible through the
mouth.
Creeping rasping in the trachea, at night. - Hoar~ene11, with roughnees and
rawnees in the chest, from speaking. - Much phlegm in the chest, with rattling
aad snarling.
Cough after drinking.- Dry morniJ:Ig-eough, of many years standing.-
Night~A, which aft'ects the head, the diaphragm and the stomach. - Dry
cough, day and night.- Tickling cough, u from the vapour of 8Ulphur, also
from deep breathing, mostly with a 1altilh, grayilh-yello!D expectoration. - Much
ptu expectorated with the cough. - Phlhilil ulcero1tJ. - HtetMptym. - When
coughing, shocks in the head, short breath, rasping in the chest and coneU88ion
ofit.
8/wrt breath t.Dith. tmery ezertion, a1eo with children. - Continual opprulion qf
the chelt, increatlell by walking in the open air. - Twitching and stinging in the
breast and its sides, when breathing.
The breast aching, 88 ifbeaten.- Continual prnmre in the chut.- Heavinees
on the ebeet.- Te118ion in the fore-part of the chest.- 8titch.e1 in the ch.e1t, par·
ticnlarly the left ride.- Rawneea and sorenees in the chest.-P~~et~monic nervo~~~.
- Hydrothoru. - P~ion of t"M heart, particnlarly during dige1tion, or in
&be tweuing in bed, sometimes anxious and trembling. - Painful eruption and
maculAe aepatiee on the breast.- Tumefaction of the DIADliDIIl1 with nodes in
them. - Soren888 and oozing seabe on the nipples.
Vehement pains in the back, which prevent sitting straight.- Stinging in the
8ID8II of the back; when rising from stoopin~. - DrofDing and .tinging pain in
tAe bGek, allo Gt 11igh.t.-Incurvation of'the spine. -Drawing and grasping in the
nape, extending to the occiput. - St!ffnu• oftAe nape, also from lifting any thing
improperly.- Macule hepatice on the neck. - 8tiftbees and hard swelling of
one 8icle of the throat. - &Hlling ofthe ~r tmd ~ gltmth, with sting·
il1g pains.- Weaknees and palsy of the muselee of the throat.- Painful eruption
on the throat.
Reodiog and stinging in the joints of the shoulder and elbow.- NooturMI
Digitized by Coogle
232 Lycopodium.- Magnesire carbonas.
pain in the bone• ofthe ..,. tmd elboto. - DrawiDs pain in the arms. - Jerking
ofthe shoulder• and .,.,., during midday-sleep.- Iafirmity and pa]ay ofthe arme.
-Arm~ and )nger• eMily benumbed, at oi«ht. - ltchiog aoc1 IIIIICUie hepatice
on the arms. - Eryaipelatous in&mmation of the fore.erm, with euppuration.-
Arthritic stiftheee of the wrist. - Dry lkin of1M hac~~. - Bunaillg in the palms
of the hands. - Red, painleea &Welling of the hand. - Wan. on the baade ancl
fingers. - Torpidity and deadness of the hands aod fingent. - Iavoiuntary sbak- ·
ing with the hands.- Rednu1, BtDeUing aJUl arthritic rmding iR the)'llger-joilttl.
- Arthritic nodes on the fingers. - Crooking and ttllitching of the finger~. -
Chilblains.
Periodical pain from the hip-joint down &o the foot, every JOurth day.- Renl-
ing in the leg• and kneel, along the shin-bone and baek of the Mt, particularly in
the e11ening and at night. - Reetleeaoe111, twitcbiDg and trembling ofthe legs and
feet, chiefly in the evening and at night. - Iavoluntary eha.k.inJ of the lep, or
laying the thighs aeunder or together.- Burning itcbiDg on the lege, partiCularly
in t,he bend of the knees. - Crooking and 1ti/fne11 ofthe kn«. - &Hlliag ofthe
knee.- Swelling of the lege, with large, red, burning epote, and with a pain,
which prevents walking. - White BtDeUing ofthe thigh. - Spasm and 1traitnen.
in the caltJei, when walking, and at night.- Burning on the Jep.- Inweerate
ulcer• on the thighs, with rending, itching and bui'Din«, at night. - Pain in the
soles, when walking.- Cramp in the feet and toes. - Swelling ofthe feet, anklee.
and eolee (with a stinging pain). - Cold feet. - Copioua, also cold per,Watiort
on thefeet, sometimes excoriating.- The toes knickling when walking.- Crook,
ing of the toes.- Corm, al8o tDith a'•tinging poin.
f 07. Magnesire carbonas.
M•l•'li• t•r6o.Uca. - Gena. llitt,rt•l•tri.t.
Duration ofeffect: about 50 days.
----
General painfulness of the body.- DrawiDg and rending in the limbe.-Pain·
less twitching on di1fer8llt places.- Frequent, w.ddenfaUing doum, with COMci-
01U11eBB, in sitting and walking. - Epileptic fits. - Scrophulous complaints. -
Glandular twnefaetions. - Atrophy, particulatly of children. - Relaxation of the
body.- Weari~11, chiefly in the legs, and when Bitting.- Soon tired by walk·
· ing. - Restlessness in the limbs after sitting long, in the evening. - The com-
plaints arilf!. or are exacerbated at night, and when at rut. - Complaints which
al'OS(l in sitting, are relieved by walking.
Strong itching and great dryness of the skin.- Great, painfully pungent tu-
bercles, under the skin.-Painlese, ~maU; red herpe1, after cawhile tu.ling off.-
Phagedlllnic bladders. - Small furunclee.
Frequent, vehement gaping. - ·Sleepine11 in the daytime. - Sleeplemaeu.
from oppression in the hypogastrium, or anxious mstleMDees and internal heat, ·
with aversion &o be uncovered. - Many, anziouB dream., with talking and start·
ling in aleep.- Unrefreehing aleep, at night; being more tired in the morning
than the eveniug before. - Early awaking, and difficulty to fall aaleep ag~.
D igitized by Coogle
Magnese carbonas.
Evening·ehills.- 8e1U1e ofwarm&h in the morning, without perspiration or
· tbinlt. .;.... Niglat.-etlt, frequently oifelleive and greasy. - Sour perapiration.
Anxiety and fearfuln8118, with tremoc and beat. - Peevishness in the evening.
..
Fainting giddine88, in the evenin~.
The head opprel!l!ed by mental exertion. - Headache at night, when lying,
also in sleep, relieved by sitting up. - Pre11ing pain on the head, excited by men-
tal labour and in a large company. - Tightnw and drawing in the occiput, as if
oeeuioned by a stitlbess ofthe neek. - Drawing in the forehead, with nausea.- •
Jerking headache, with a sensation ofheaviness, after vexation.- Stinging pain
in the head, alao at night, on that side, upon which one lies. - Congestion of
blood to the head, with heat, particularly when smoking tobacco.
Seales on the hairy part ofthe head, itching particularly during rainy weather.
- Tbe hair fiilling oft'.
I~tjldmmtltion ofthe ~$' with redness, stinging, burning and dimrightedne11:
- Serophulous inflammation of the eyes. - Swelling ofthe eye-ball - The eye•
cloteil by ~ttppuration, in the rooming. - Dryness, or veltement running ofthe
eyes. - Opacity ofthe cornea.- Black spota before the eyes. - Cataracta.
Inftammation of the external ear, with redness and ulcerous pain. - The
organs of hearing very sensitive to noise. - Dy1ecoia, with buzzing in the eat'S,
particularly in a room. -Tingling, buzzing and' fluttering in the ear.
Epistaxis, in the morning.- Eruption ofblisters in the nose, with a throbbing
pain.
The countenance dilcoloretl, pale, sallow.·- Alternation of paleness and red-
ness of the face. - Morose appearance. - Tension on the face, as if albumen
were dried on the .skin. - Rending, mooting and boring in the zygomatic bone,
intolerable when at rest, and driving one about, from one place to an other. -
Swelling of the zygomatic bone, with a throbbing pain. - Tuberous bloatedne66
and •elling oftheface. - Herpetie eruption about the mouth.
Toot&-eehe, when riding in a carriage.- 100thoflcle at night, intolerable when
at rut, eompeffing one to TUJe fTom bed and to Walk about, mostly burning, or
aching like an ulcer, or rending, drawing and jerking, with twitching in the fin-
gers and legs. - Throbbing and ~tinging in the teeth, after meals. - Tooth-ache,
increased by cold. - Toothoflche ofpregnant women. - l.oofseness ofthe teeth. ·
lJrynef$ oftl&e moutla, particularly tit night, and in the morning.- Bloody sa-
liva.- Eruption ofvesicles in the mouth, and on the tongue. - Small tubercles
,in the meuth, bleeding and burning with the least tone~ ·
Stinging pain in the throat, when speaking and swallowing. -Burning in the
throat and on the palate, with dryneBS and roughness, as from the beard ofbarley.
Ageusia. - Bitter taste, with a white tongue and viscid slime on the tongue
and teeth. - Sour wte in the mouth. - Strong thir1t for water, particularly in
the evening and at night.-Btro:ng appetite fur vegetables, with ave~ion to meat,
or vice versa. ..
Sour eructation. - Nausea and giddiness during meals, succeeded by choking,,
and vomiting ofa bitter saltish water.
8prmn in tAe 1tomach, with a pressing contracting pain.
Hardness, and stinging pains in the hepatic region.
Digitized by Coogle
2M Magnesire car.bonas....:... Magnesire murias.
Distension of the abdomen, with heavinees in it. - AlHlomilltll crtlmp8; suc-
ceeded by an attack of leucorrlKea. - Pinchillg and cutting in the abdomen. -
Inguinal hernia. . . ·
Constipation and cO&tiveneu. - Frequent ineffectual efforfiJ to stool, with 'a
small discharge offalces, or of wind only.- OreenWa,frotll.y ditm'lu841, with cut-
ting in the abd.omen. - Tedious, sour-smelling diarrlaata ofchildren. - Alcarides
and lumbricoides. - Stitches in the anus and rectum, also attending the inetrec-
tual efforts to stooL
Urine very md increaaed, pole, or g:reen.- Diabetes. - Involuntary mictur-
ition. - Burning and rasping pain, when urinating.
Diminul)ed •exual paalion. - Defective erection~. ~ Prostatic ftuid escaping
with the discharge ofwind.
Urging towards the groin, as ifmenstruation would appear, with cutting in the
abdomen. - MennrtUJtion too late, or entirely suppl'e&'led. - Dark, thick, viscous,
pitch-like menstrual blood.- During men.tnultion, lassitude, chills, headache,
pale countenance, pain in the small of the back, or epasmodically UJ'8ieg pains in
the abdomen, with suppression of the menstrual ftow• ....., White slimy, corroding
leucorrhlll(J, preceded by abdominal cramps..
Obstruction of the nose. - Gravedo, which only allows of breathing through
the mouth.
Cough from tickling in the throat; with a .thin ealtisb expectoration. - llpaB-
modic cough at night. - Morning-cough, with a yellowish purulent expeetoration.
- Blood ejected with the cough.
Constringent oppression of the chest.- Soreness and stitches in the left side
of the chest, about the heart.
Pain in the back and lumbar region, as if beaten, at night. - &iffneu ofthe
Mpe.
Wrenching pain in the shoulder-joints, when moved. - Attacks ofa rfJfflling
pain in the ·•houlder, also at night, with tingling, extending into the fingers, and
inability to ·move the arm. - Drawing pain in the arms and hands. - Crackei
skin of the hands. - Phagerkaic bladder~, with a stinging pain, on the land8 and
jingm. - Spasmodic tension in the middle finger-joints.- Heat in the fingers.-
Red, inflammatory NeUing ofthe finger•. ·
Restlessness in the legs. - Drawing pain in the feet and legs. - Itching on
the back-part of the thighs, with red spot!! after eeratehiug. - Painful swelling in
. the bend o( the knee••- Spasm in"the calve of the leg at night. - B1ll'lliilg spota
on the shin.- Furuncle on the leg.
f08. Magnesire murias.
ltl•f•"i" ••ri•liea. ..;_ e-. JCoeltlllo•..,.• BiJineru.
Duration ofeffect: about 7 weeks.
Antidote•: camphora, arsen. acidum1
Digitized by Coogle
Magnesire murias.. 23&
Predomifumt ~ectl: Boring or epumodiaaJiy contracting paias.- Dillabling
drawing IUld rending in the limbs.- Hysteric complaints and BpGMil. -Glandular
tumefilction& - Liability to take cold.- Weakness of the body, 88 iforiginating
in the stomach.- Sensation ofgeneralmorbid ~ection IUld aorenese, with great ·
seDIIitivenel!& to-noise..._ The· moet complaint~ crile in Bitting, and at night, and
are commonly relieved by motion.
Furunelee.
Great 1leepine1B in the daytime, with gaping and sluggishneM. - Late sleep,
and lleepluneiB, from heat with thirst, in the evening, IUlCl ot niglat, and great
rutlesmus in the whole body, when closing the eyee.- Anxiollll, frightful dreams,
with talking and abriekinr in sleep. - Unrefreahing sleep at night. - Jerks
through,the body, at night, when waking.- Night-mare.
Ch~ in the evening, disappearing in bed. -Perspiration after midnig_ht.
Anxious inclination to weep.- Peevish and ill humor.- Aversion to talk.
Dullness in the heed, like intoxieatio~- Giddineas in the mQI'Ding, when riff.
ing, and during dinner, disappearing in the open air. -
HeavineiB in the Mod, with reeling and whirling about. - Sensation ofnumb-
ness in the forehead. - Tightening prU111ore in theforehead au lineiput, the heatl
being muddled and beclouded, particularly after awaking. - Grasping and raging
in the temples, in the evening in bed, with a sensation 88 ifgiddineas and uneon-
. eeiousness woUld occur. - Jerking, or stinging and throbbing, rending in the
head. - Headache relieved by enveloping the head. - Congestion of blood to the
head, with heat IUld painful 8fP.tation, and buzzing in it.
Nervous drawing externally on the head and faee, extending into the teeth,: ·
with a muddled head.
~of the eyes, tDilA velaement buming in them., and redneas of the
eonjunctiva.-The eyes running IWd burning, when looking on MY thing brighL
-The eyes glued ,together by suppuration, at night.- YellowneaJ of the con-
junctiva. ·
PulHtion in the ear. - Dulloeee and dyseeoia, 88 if aomething .were plaeed
befOre the ears.
The wings of the nose swollen.- 8C~Jh. in the nostril~, with painfulness of
the nose to the touch.- Anosmia.
Pille, yellotDilh-~ ~- Tenaion in the ace, with cramping
pain in the facial bones.- Erwption iA 1Mface.
Cracked lipe. - Sensation of roughness on the intemal slll'filee of' the lipe,
when touching it with the tongue.- Large, lr8D8parent veaielee in the red part
of the lipe. 1
TootlHehe., increased to IUl intolerable degree by taking food into the mouth.
-:-:-~tion of elongation in the upper-incisors.- The gums painfully nollen-
and ealily bleedmg.
Dryness in' the mouth, at night.- CoDection of much watery saliva in the
mouth.- A eensation 88 if the whole inside ofthe mouth were bumt.-Burning
on the tougue, 88 iffrom fire.
Pain in the throat, as ifit were raw, iDereaaed towarda eveniug, allo at night.
Digitized by Goo
Magnesire DJUrias.
- '1\\ick, vilcout p/lkp itt tle tArotlt, frequently mixed·with blood, and diflieult
to be hawked up.
Freqm1tt thir1t.- BuUmJa, ud aeneation of hwmger, IJUetleeded by naueea.-
Hnger, tllitlaout knmoingf• wlaat.-Inclination for delicaeieL
Regurgitation ofwhat hu been eaten, during a walk.- YeMmml lielct'1'f'irtg,
during and after dinner, which oceuions pain in the I!I&Omacb.- Senation • if•
boll were riling from the abdomen into the meophagus, diappeariJI« after eruc-
tation.
Nauaea in the morning, afterriaing.-Frequent fitintiah naueea, day and night.
Preesure in the stomach, with naUBetL- 8training pain u from 1m tdcer, tmtl
10renen in the ltomach, wi&h external tenderneaa. -Painful shaking in the stom·
ach, when walking.
Stinging and tension in 1M ktpGtic regttm.- Pnmng ptrirt mtu liver, even
when walking, and touching it, partieularly vehement, when lying on the right
side.- Chronic i'lflmnmationl of1M liver.
The abdomen hard and tenee. - Continlllrl 1trong cliltmlion of the abdomen,
with conatipetion.-Inveterate painfbllulrclnen in the right riM of the IIIHlolnm.
- Abdominal crmnpt, aho hylferict, particUlarly iD. the evemng, which extend
into the thighs, and cause an eacape ofleucorrhc28.- Renditag in the ~.­
Creeping &tinging in the abdominal mueclee.
Htt.rd, dilficult, ttt.rdy tmd ltmf6icimt ltooll.-Knotty ttool, like lhetp'l-flung.-
Much urging to stool, with a amall diecharge, or voiding wind only.- 7Wioru
propenrity to diarrluM.-Vehement diarrha!a, with slime and blood.- The feces ·
covered with slime and blood.-Tape~worm.
Frequent urging to urinate, day and night, with a ama1l diecharge.- The
urine expeBed only by exertion of the abdominal muscles.- Numbneaa·of the
urethra.
Much itching on the genitals and the scrotum. - Frequent ereetione. - Burn-
ing in the back, after coition.
MfmiBI too ttlf'ly tnUl too f"'''fiu~ - Amenorrhma. - Black, elotty blood d»-
charged during menstruation.- During mm•truation, ptJle coumernmce, pain in
the emaH ofthe back, and laasitnde.- Uterine crtt.mpt.- LetlcorrhfJUI, partieu)arly .
discharged, when moving the body or after previous abdominal crampe.-ln•ura-
tion of the uterua.
Troubleeome drynees of the nose. - Nocturnal obstruction · of the noae. -
COryH, tllith agewia tt.nd aROif1litt., and a yellow, stinking nual mucus.
Hoaraeneaa, with roughnMJ and dryne&l!l in the throat.
Dry cough, in the evening and at night, with burning and eorellf!l!8 in the
chest.- Sptumoclic cough at night, with vehement tickling in the throat.
Oppl't!l!l!ion of the chest in the region of the heart.- Sudden'heaviness on the
cheat, with obetruetion of breath, dnrinA' dinner.-Tenaion and contraction in the
chest.-Stitches in ~be heart, which interrupt breathing. - Pqlpit«tion of tM
Item, when sitting, disappearing by motion.
Contraedag spumodie pain in the emall of~be back. - Stinging, rending and
burning in the back.- Swelling of the glanda ofthe tJuo,t.
Drawing and rending in die abonlder-joints, through the arme into the
Digitized by Coogle
Magnesia! murias.- Magnesire sulphas. 237
hands, highly t>xaccrbaf:ed by motion.- Numbne11 of the arm1, in the morning,
when awaking.
Great weaknees ofthe legs, even in sitting.-Heavinef!IB in the legs.-Jerking
rending in the hips. - Restlef!81less and straining in the thighs. - Pret~~~ing pain
in the knees.- Spasm in the calves, at night.- Burning in the soles, in the
evening.
.Foot-Bweat.
t 09. Magnesire sulphas.
M•l""li• ,rJ,.bric•.-E,.,_ tab.- o-. &c,.t(rll.wrt Bill•r•~•-
Predomina;,t effects: Rending in the limbs, particularlY, at night.- Great lassi-
. tude and soreness in the whole body, with tremor.
Nettle-rash.- Itching, red, herpetic eruptions.
Sleepiness, early in the evening.- Sleeplessne1s, at night, from vehement
pains in the head, abdomen and small pf the back.- Many, also vexing and
anxious dreams.
Chills and shivering, mostly in the evening, disappearing in bed.- Chills, at
night, with thirst, continued till noon; perspiration in the afternoon, after lying
down. - Heat, when rising up in bed, with giddiness, perspiration· on the fore-
head, and redness of the face.- Alternation ofheat and shivering, and-redness
and paleness ofthe countenance.- Perspiration at night, or in the morning, frt'-
quently with thirst.
Dolefuln('SS and inclination to weep, with fearful, anxious timidity.- Easily
irritated, .and taking.every thing amiss.
Fantasy, as ifstrangers were present.
Dullnees in the head, as ifit were firmly ecrewed. - Giddiness,·with inelina-
tion to fall forwards, in the morning, and after dinner.
Pressing headache, as if the head were screwed"together, excessively increased
by moving the eyes. - Compreesing headache, with heat in the head, and red·
ness of the face. - Rending and Btinging in the head, particularly the temples.
.,.... Congestion ofthe blood to the forehead, with an urging pain and heat in it. -
Sensation of looseness·and motion of the brain, with every movement. -Most
vehement headache, aceompanied by shaking-chills.
Pain in the eyes, as ifthey were preesing out of the orbits, when looking side-
wards. - Burning in the eyes, "'rticularly with r;andle-light, in the evening and
morning.- Stinging in the eyes;- The eyes running, and photophobia.
Stinging in the ears. - RingiDg in t~e ears.
The ~ose aching as if ulcerated, particularly when touched. - Epistaxis, at
~ht. .
Earth-colored eounteDaDee. - Rendiag in the facial bones. - Drynees and ar-
dor of the lips, in the evening.
Tooth-ache, mostly in the evening, also when entering the room afier having
been in the open air, also excited by cold and warm thin«&. and in.creaeed when
taking food into the mouth, commonly jerking, pulling or throbbing, and disa~
pearing in bed.
Digitized by Coogle
Magnesire sulpnli-'·
Dryness with &enaation oftor}x.r in the mouth. - Rougbne. ofthe tong11.e.-
Vesicles on the edges ofthe tongue, with an intelll!e pain.
Stinging pain in the throat, at night, and chiefty when swallowing. - Dry·
ness and sensation oftorpor in the throat. - Much phlegm in the throat. - Sour
phlegm expectorated.
Taste bitter or sweetish-bitter, particularly in the morning. - Thirst, chiefty
in the morning and evening. - Anorexia, and loathing of all food, even when
thinking of it. - Aversion to meat.
Empty, slimy, bitter and putrid emctation. - .Watery regurgitation, preceded
by trembling in the stomach. - Loathing and nausea with a collection ofwater
in the mouth.- Vomit~ first ofwhat has been eaten, then·ofmucus.
The stomach as ifcold, with inclination to vomit, in the morning in bed.
Stinging, particularly in the evening, before and after meals, in the left hy-
pochondrium.
The abdomen tense, hard and full. - Vehement stinging in the whole aMomen,
particularly about the navel.- Painful drawing in the abdomen. - Urging and
straining in the groin, with pain as ifit would burst, when stretching out the body.
The stool sometimes hard, at other times soft.- Purging stools, with much
thirst.- Ascarides with the stool.
IncretJBed urine.- Urinating at night.- Urine discharged by drops.-- Bright,
greenish urine.- After urination, stinging in the orifice ofthe urethra.
Menses too early and too profuse, with a thick, black blood. - Discharge of
blood during the intervals of menstruation.- During menstruation, heaviness of
the head, and chills. - Thick, copious leucorrh<ea, with a sensation as ifbeaten,
in the small of the back, and the thighs. - Burning leucorrhma, particularly dis-
charged with motion. '
Much yellow, thick nasal mucus.- Flowing catarrh, with anosmia, huaky
speech, sore nose and pain in the chest.
Dry, futiguing cough, in ihe morning, after awaking, which compels one to
sit up.- Morning-cough, with expectoration, and 1ensation of 1oreneu in the
chest,. throat and mouth.
Prusure on the chut with olntruction ofbreath, chiefty in the morning, or at
night in bed.-Burning in the chest, also with a cough.
Pain in the back as if beaten, in the morning when awaking. - Rending in·
the back, .at night, which makes it neoessary to walk about.
Stinging and ten.ion in the nape.
Twitching of the arms.- Rending in the shoulders and arms.-Teai;ng and
stinging in the hand and fingers, with contraction of the pans.-Tremor of the
hands.- Rending in the pointB ofthefingers, at night.
Noctumal pains in the legs and small ofthe back.- Heaviness, sometimes in
the hips, at other times'in the small oftbe back.- Rending in the legs, particu•
Jarly in the thigh-bone.- Tearing and stinging in the toes, with a contraction
Qf them.
Digitized by Coogle
Manganesii oxydum.
1i 0. Manganesii oxydum.
Duration ofeffect: about 7 weeks.
Antidote: coffea toeta.
PredOmiunt e.ffecu: Jerking, dull1tinging pain. indifferent. parts of the body.
- Drmoing and tearing, particularly in the limb1.- Drawing and strainins in
the limbe and joints, as from contraction of the tendoilll, particularly when stretch-
ing. - Arthritil in the joint., with stiliging, jerking and mooting, worst at nigltt,
frequently on one side, or from one arm to the opposite leg. - Red noelling ofthe
joint.; also after taking cold. - Inflammatory tumefaction& and suppurations. -
Ostitis with intolerably grubbing pains, at night. - Weakness and tremor, partic-
ularly in the limbe.- Uneasiness in the whole body, particularly in the stomach,
with peevishness. - With the least touch, all parts ache as if ulcerated. - The
greater part of the complaint• aPPear at night. - Complaints originated in the
room, disappear in. the open air, and vice versa. - Many of the complaint• are
relieved or e~acerbated, toith the change ofthe weather.
Burning over 'the whole skin of the body, in the evening, when rising from
bed. - Itching herpes. ~ The skin difficult to be healed. - GaUing and rhagade1
in the bend8 ofthe joint1.
Exc888ive drowsiness, in the evening at 8 o'clock.- Many, very vivid, also
tm.riotu dreams, which are easily recoUected.
Shaking chills in the evening, with stinging headache, without thirst.- Chills,
with flushes of heat on the head. - Feverish warmth on the breast and cheeks,
with painfulness of the .whole body to the touch.- Catarrhal fevers.- Night-
sweat, frequently only on the neck and the legs, with a necessity to scratch.
Silent, reserved peevilhneu.
Abstraction ofmind. - Weakne!l8 of the senses•
...,
Attacks of hemicrania. - Heaviness of the head" with a sensation as ifit were
enlarged. - Burning pressing headache, dislppearing in the open air. -Drawing
1tinging or tightening headache in the open air, relieved in the room. - Con-
ge~tion ofblood to the head, with throbbing in it, as ifthe brain would suppurate,
relieved in the open air. - Painful tremor of the b~, when moving. - The
headache, originated in a room, is relieved in the open air, and vice versa.
Pre!I8Ule in the eyes, when exerting them, and by candle-light. - Ezce18ive
burning hetit a7«l dryne~1 ofthe eye~. - Swollen eye-lida, painful by every motion.
-The eyes closed by matter, in the morning. - Dilated or contracted pupils. -
Dimsightedness. - Myopia.
Otalgia. - Pains drawing into the ear from other parts. - Stinging in the
ear~, when ~peaking, swallowing, laughing, and walking rapidly. - Dy1ecoia, 88
from ob1tnu:tm'Ofthe ear1, removed by blowing the JWSe, and toith the change of
the weather relieved and ezacerbated. - Buzzing and rust!iDg in the ears. - A
cracking sound in the earl, when bloVJing the no.e and ltDallollling, a smashing
sound, when gaping. · ·
Pale, sunken, and distressful ·countenance. - Vehement grasping rending
.. o,gitized by Google
Manganesii oxydum.
between the root ofthe nose and eye-bro~s.-A shooting pain from the lower jaw
illtO the temples, when laughing. '
The lips dry and parched.- Eruption8 and ulcer• on the angle• ofthe fTWUth
-Spasm in the maxillre, after eating.
The teeth painfully tender. - Violent painr in the teeth, which 1oon change to
other part1. - Rending in the molares and adjoining partS, with great relaxation
and restlessness, particularly in the forenoon and evening. - Tooth-ache with a
rasping pain, increased to an intolerable height by any thing cold.
· Odour from the mouth as from clay, in the morning.- Small nodes and burn-
ing vesicles on the tongue.
Sore throat, ar if excoriated, with cutting painr, without IU)allofDing. - Dull
stitches in both sides ofthe larynx, extending into the ear, when swallowing. -
Dryness and roughness in the throat, with a sensation as if the trachea were
closed by a smallleaflying upon it.- Tediom inji6mmatWn ofthe throat.
Taste insipid, like oil. - Adiplia. - Aversion to food from a sense ofsatiety.
- Sourish burning rising from the stomach, like heart-burn.
Burning and heat in the stomach, extending up into the breast, sometimes
with great r~tlessness. - D;awing in the region ofthe stomach, ,as if the serobi-
culus were enlarged, with nausea.
Pressure in the hypoehondres.
· The abdomen tumid and inflated. - Pressing sensation ofsoreness in the epi-
gaslrium, and pit of the stomach. - Warmth and contraction, from the middle of
the abdomen extending to the chest, with nausea. - Cutting in the region of the
navel, when breathing deep. - Shaking in the abdomen, as ifthe intestines were
loose.- Excessive discharge ofwind.
Constipation.- Difficult, dry, knotty stooL- Frequent papeseent stools, every
day.- Frequent rumbling in the rectum.
· Frequent urging to urinate. -Earthy, violet sediment -of the urine.- Stitches
in the urethra, without urination.
Sensation of weakness in the genitals, with burning'and jerking drawing in
the spermatic corth, extending to the glans. - Itching on the glans.
Menstruation too early. ·
Gravedo. - Obltruction ofboth the na~trill.
Tediom roughness-and hoar1eness, particularly in1 the morning, and in the
open air, from an old affection ofthe trachea. - Catarrh of the chest with coryza
and hoareeness. - Phthilil trachealil. ·
Cough with hoarseness. - Dry cough, excited by talking or reading loudly~
with painful dryness and roughness in the larynx.- Expectoration ofmany small
lumps ofphlegm, in the morning, almost without coughing. - Blood ejected from
the breast. ·
Hot and burning breath, with an uneasy warmth in the chest.
Stitche1 in the brea~t and in the sternum, shooting.up and down.- Throbbing
~ the chest. - Sudden lf.roku on the hsu.rt and in the sides of the chest, from
above downwards.
Rending along the whole spine, when at rest and when mo-.ing.- Stiffiless
of the nape.
Digitized by Coogle
Manganesii oxydum.- Marum verum. 241
Drawing and rmdif~K from the shoulder, through the wAole m"rll into tl&e handa
andfinger•. 7 Tightening pain in the joinll ofthe """' and harull. - Boring and
mooting in the brachial bone, as ifin the marrow.- Straining in the elbow-joint,
as ifit were too llhort. - ltc~ herpes on the fore -arm& - Spasmodie pain in
the hands. - Intlammatory sw~g and suppuration of the little finger. - Rha-
gades in the be~ds of the fingers. ·
Twitching of the mWJCles in the legs, with the least motioa - Spasmodic
drawing, or jerking stiqging in the thighs.....,..Tightening, stiffhlog pain in the legs.
-Rending about the kl.ees.- Infirmity and tremor of the knees. - Inflammation
and swelling of the ankles, with stitches extending to the legs. - Burning in the
soles. - Galling betWeen the toes. 1
/
11 t. Marum verum.
Duration ofeffect: eeveral weeks.
Predominant e.ffectr: Rending in the limba,. particularly the joints.- Twitch·
ing of the mWJCles. - Great nervous excitement and excessive irritation, with
tremor and reeling.- Waddling and croseing the feet when walking.- Numb- .
nese and creeping in the limbs.- Desire to move in the open air.
Itching pricking on many places of the body.
Late sleep, in the evening.- Unrefreshing sleep, and ditHctilt rousing from,
sleep, in the morning.- Rutleu night·1leep, from great ezcitement, with vivid
dreams, and frequent frightful startling.
Chilliness and chilly tremor, frequently with ice-cold banda, and frequent gap-
ing.- Increased warmth, in the evening.
Fretful irritability, even talking of others causes a great excitement.- Pee-
vishness.- Sluggishness and excessive avemon to labOur.- Great mental excite-
ment and loquacity.-Irruiltible inclination to ling. ·
Dull pressing headache.- Preuing headache, particularly in theforehead and
templer.-Jerking rending in the right side of the bead. ·
Pain in the eyf'.8, like the friction of a grain of sand. - Pungency in the eyer,
particularly the internal canthi, with redness of the conjunctiva. -Red inflamed
eyes.- Running eyes, with an appearance ofhaving wept much.
Otalgia.-Stinging and rending in. the ear.-Hissing in the ear, from speaking
and after every sound.- Scaly,' herpetic emption on the ear·ftap. ·
Polypu~ in the 1101e. - Senaation of obstruction in the noee. - Prickling in
the noee.
Countenance pale, wretched, with eunken eyes.- Fluahes ofheat in the &ee,
without redness. - Prealing rending in the cheek-boDe, extending into the teeth.
Rending tooth-ache in the roots of the teeth, and the gum&- Pain in the
teeth and gums when chewing.
Much phlegm in the mouth. - Biting and ~eraping bel&a.cl ift the ft~t~CU and
on the root ofthe tongue.
21
o;g;t,•ed by Coogle
Marum verum.- Menyantbes.
StingiDg'pain in the throat, with difficult swallowing.- Preaure or drawing
and rending ui the pharynx.-·Much irritation to hawk and tbro~ up phlegm
ofa mouldy taste.
Bitter taste in the pharynx, after dinner.- Inoreued appetite.- &me of
hunger, as if the food did not satiate; aleo preventing sleep.- After drinking
water, cutting in the abdomen or inclination to vomit.
Regurgitation of what has been eaten, with a bitter taste.- During meals, an
exce&Bive bickupping, with vehement 11hooks in the pit of the stomach.
Pain in the •tomach, a from emptine11, with rumbling.- Wambling in the
pit ofthe stomach.- Pressure and anxious oppreeeian in the pit of the stomach.
Rending drawing paine in the abdomen under the short ribs. - Olntructed
flatulency, with pressing, pinching and rolling in the abdomen. - Prei!Bure in the
epigastrium.- Urging downwards to the inguinal ring.- Much teind dwclw.rged
with a stench of rotten eggs.
Copiobs, papescent and fetid stools.- A.caride. di6cAarged.-Much itching,
and creeping 6eMation on the anm, also after every stool.
Urine increaed and watery.- Pressing sensation ofsorenei!B and pungency in
the fore-part ofthe urethra.- Burning, during and after urination.- Decreased
sexual pallBion.
Much sneezing with prickling in the nose.- Obstruction of the nose.- Run-
ning catarrh, in the open air.
Affection df -the chest, with a sensation of dryness in the trachea. - Dry
cough, from tickling in the trachea, as from inhaled dust.- Pressing squeezing
in the lower part of the chest, with anxious uneasiness.
Rheumatic drawing and tension in the back.-Painful heaviness in the upper·
and fore-arms.-Twitching of the muscles in the arms.-Drawing rending in the
bones and joints of the arms, hands and fingers.- Painful pulsation and drawing
in the fore-finger.
Twitching of the muscles in the legs. - Rending in the joints and bones of the
legs, feet and toes. -Pain in the big toe, as if the nail would grow into the flesh.
112. Menyanthes.
Mtrtyanlh., lri(oliala.- Bucl- btart. - Germ. Biller- oder Fii/urll••·
Predominant effects: Darting pains in the·limbs. - Arthritic conaplaints. -
Painless twitching of the muscles, on different places. particularly when at rest.-
Stinging pinching pains.- Great weakness of the whole body, particularly when
walking, frequently with chills.
Restlei!B sleep, with vivid dreams, which cannot be called to mind.
Prevailing chilliness.-Shuddering, as after travelling on foot, or as after hear-
ing dreadful tales, along the upper part of the body, or on the lege, with bristling
of the hair. - Sensation of chillinei!B, particularly in the fingers. -Intermittent
fevers, with coldne11 in the abdomen. ·
Digitized by Coogle
Menyanthes. - Mephitis.
Timid fearful temper. - Indolence. -Lamenting sadness. - Jocoaeness and
hasty merriment. ·
Continued Aeavine11 ofthe head.- Squeezing or comprunng headache, with a
~~eneation, II!! if a heavy weight were pressing upon the brain, when asct'nding
steps.- Dullness and dizziness of the head in the room, with a slow couiae of
thinking, relieved in the open air.- Straining headache.
Gnawing, externally on the vertex.-Burning pains on the skin ofthe forehead.
Darkening before the eyes, when reading.- Frequent spasmodic torpor in
the eye-lids.
Tingling in the ears.
NaW!eOus odour in the nose, as from rotten eggs.- Tension in the root of
the nose.
Visible painless twitching ofthe fucial muscles and f'ye-lids.
Sensation of torpidity in the left side of the palate, when gaping and coughing.
Dryness ·and roughness in the pharynx, which renders swallowing saliva
difficult.
Bitter-sweet taste in the mouth.- Frequent eructation ofwind, without any
taste or smelL- After meals, the head painfully muddled.
Contracting pains in the stomach. - Continual grwpbling in the region of the
stomach, as ifit were empty.
&nlation_ of coldne~1 in the abdomen, particularly when pressing on it.-
Soreness of the external abdominal integuments. - The abdomen distended by
flatulency.- Pinchin~ iri the abdomen.
Constipation.- Hard stool. with pinching pains in the abdomen.
Frequent urging to urinate, with a diminished discharge.
Strong sexual passion, without imaginary excitement, or without erection.
Rough, hoarse voice, with obstruction of the ears,' as if something had been
put before them. - Speamodic constriction of the larynx, with irritation to cough,
when drawing breath.
Stinging compre11Wn on both lidu of the brea~t.
Pressing 'pain as if~ten, in the small of the hac\. wllen ritting and stooping.
-Dull boring stitches in the left shoulder-blade.-Rending between the shoulder- .
blades.- Stiffne~• and keatline~1 in the mwclu oftAe throat and neck.
Spalmodic, disabling rending and drawing in the arms, bands and fingers.-
$pasmodic stiflhess ofthe arm, with involuntary bending of the fingere.-Painful
jerking in the arm and little finger.
A 1en1ation as if the thlgbs were bruised.
H 3. Mephitis.
llyafiODII o£ thio reonetl)' will be pabliohetl ia the "Corroopodnablatl''.
Mezereum.
1U. Mezereum.
Duration ofe./feet: about 50 days.
Antidote.: eamphora, hydrargyrum.
l!~t!d a "" tmtidotefor: hydrargyrum, nitri acidum.
Predominant ejfecu: Rheumatic rending, tlra~DiJas' and tention in the limbs,
with disability.- Jerking pains with a long Mmaining amart.- DraWing pains in
one half of the body, with cbillineee.- Attack. ofpaim, tmtl complaint1, attended
with chillineu and 1hudtlering.- Fretting 10rene11 in tAe mucott1 membrane1.-
Burning in the orgam ofdigeltion. - Oltitil tmtl eZ06tolil. - Cariu. - Rhachi- .
tis.- Inveterate Syphilis. - Bad con~equence• ariling from the alnue ofmercury.
- TuJitcAing and quivering of the mrucle1; -Drawing and eoMneM in the joints.
- SoMness aud heavineu in all tAe limln.- Unl'rieldineM and sluggishness of the
body.- Walking bent.- Emaciation, or bloatedness of the body and face with a
tumid abdomen, with children.- &rophuloul cmnplaint1. - Glandular tume-
factions.- One lr.alfofthe body particularly affected.- Exacerbation in the even-
ing.- Paim are increued by touching the part affected, or by motion.-Very
sensitive to cold air.
The skin of the whole body scaling oft-Itching, particularly at night, return-
ing more vehemently and paitifuUy immediately after scratching; frequently UJitA
swelling of the spot which has been aeratcheci.- Biting·itching, as f(om insects.
- Miliary eruptionl, sometimes tedious. - Furuncles. - Inflamed ulctf'i, with
burning and stinging, or with fretting soreness. - Inflammations going ovt>r to
I!Uppuration.
Great slcepineu in the daytime, with restleM, unrefreshing night-sleep. -
Trt>mbling of the body in sleep.- Early awaking (2, 3 o'clock), from night-mare.
Chilline11, chills and coldness, toith vehement thirst, and without desire to be-
come warm.-Vehement inflammatory fevers.
Hypochondriac humour, with sadness and weeping.- Anxiety and .restless-
ness, particularly when alone, with longing for company. - Peevishne11. - Im-
, petuosity. - Aversion to labour.
Weak memory.- JJ{ental torpor. - Difficult comprehension.- Thoughts
frequently vaniiAing. .
Dullnees and dizzinees ofthe head, like intoxication, or as after excessive semi-
nal emissions. - Giddiness, so as to. cause fulling sidewa{'ds, with glimme~ng be-
fore the eyes.
Headache, with 1hivering and chiUine11, exacerbated in the open air. - Stupe-
factive pressing headache, in one halfof the brain. - PRins in the head pressing
asunder, or squeezing together.- Vehement, throbbing, preMing pain in the
whole head, the forehead, nose and teeth, increased by the least touch. -.Ham-
mering headache with vomiting of mucus.
Pain in the cranium, increased by touch. - Tenderness of the aealp and haira
to the touch.- Biting itching on the hairy part ofthe head.- Oozing, itching
eruption on the head. '
·"
Digitized by Coogle
•
Mezereum.
Pain in the eyes, as if the eye-ball were too large, with preeaare.-Pungeoey
in the inwrnal canthi - Injlo.mmaticm ofthe eye11. - Presbyopia.- Myopia.
Drawing or rending otalgia.- Oozing, itching erup&ion behiDd the ears.
&rene1111 ofthe imide ofthe nose•...:.. Diminished smelling with aensation ofdry-
ness in·the nose.
Pal~ countenan~ - Stupefactive painful pre1111ure on the zygomatic bone. -
Drawing in the jaw-bones. - Continual troublesome twitching of the mUiCles in
the cheek and above the eye-lid. - Furuncle in the face.
The lips and angles of the mouth sore and burning. ~ Swollen, cracked, ecaly
lips.- The upper-lip ulcerated, with burning pains when touched. - Stinging in
the Submaxillary glands.
Tooth-ache in hollow teetl"- Drawing burning, or boring 11tinging in the teeth,
extending into the zygo11UJlic bone11 and the temple&.- Jerking rending wath-ache.
- The teeth are set on edge, with a sensation as if they were elongated. - The
teeth quickly becOI'Jling.hollow. -Burning ,vesiclett on.the gums.
Burning vesicles in the moutlLand on the tongue. - ContinWll bumiag in the
mouth• .:.._ Dijficult apeech.
Pressing pain in the throat, when swallowing. - -Roughness, soreness, biting
and stinging in the pharynx and on the palate. - Bumi~g tn the pharyn:c.-
Pharyngitis and resophagitis. - Comtricticm ofthe pharynx.
Bitter taste, particularly of beer, which is thrown up again. - Strong hunger,
ut noon and in the evening.- Aversion to meat.
Frequent and empty eruotaticm, particularly after drinking. - Nat~~ea, with a
.collection of much water in the mouth, and shuddering and shaking of the whole
body.- Vehement vomiting of green bitter mucus, with headache.- Htemate-
mesill.
/Jressure in the 11tomach. "- Burning and sensation of heat in the stomach.-
Gastritis. - Contraction of the diaphragma.
Abdomen hard and tense.- Tedious, colic-like reruling JHriru in the abdomen.
- Heaviness in the abdomen.- ~nsation of heat and burning ia the ~­
Enteritis. - Pressing asunder in the inguinal ring. - Drawing in the inguinal
glands. - Flatulent colic, with rolling' and l'WJilbling in the •bdomen, oppr~tlion
ofl;reath and chilliness.
Diffieult evacuation ofa thick, pappy stoo~ with vehement eft'orta.-Stuall, soft,
frequent stool. - Vehement purging lllooltl, with itUUjferti!Jk ~pam&­
After evacuation, the rectum being protruded, and the anus COD8trioted on it. -
Chilly shivering before and qfter llfool.
Diminished 8ecretion of urine. -~Floating flocks and a reddid lelliaMtt in the
urine. - Htllmatv.ria.- So.fenes~~ in the urethra. - Slime, like gonorrhQ~a, ei!Cap-
ing {rom the urethra.
Jerking-stinging rending in the urethra.- Minutely pricking pau.on the point
of the glans.- Balanoblennorrhaa. - Swelling of the testicles. ·
Suppressed menstruation.- Watery, also long continued leucorrhma, reeem-
bling the white ofan egg. - Malignant leucon~a.
Dryness of the noae, with diminished smelling, and ineffectual irritation to
.eneeze.- Much sneezing, attended with soreness io the chest. - Running catarrh,
~
o,9itized by Google
Mezereum.- Millefolium.- Moschus.
with a thin yellow mucus, eorenEII!B and burning ofthe nGee and eruption oft the
lips. .
Hoar1eneu, with burning ud dryneee in the throat, irritation to eough, and
oppresllion ofbreath.
Vehement cough, when lying, also after misuse of nitric acid.- Dry cuugh
with choking and vomiting, in the evening and at night. - Htemoptym.
Tightnet111 ofthe chest.- When inspiring, a pain in the cheat, u ifthe lung•
were grotDnftUt, and the cavity of the cheat were too narrow.
Preseure in the chest.- Painful temion of the pectoral mUicles.-Sorene&J
and burning on the sternum.__. Stitches in the che1t, increased by inspiring. ,
Pains in the small of the back.- Tightening contracting pain in the back, ex-
tending to the small of the back. - Stinging in the back. - Painful stiffness of
the nape and throat. - Rending shocks on the sides of the throat. - Soreness in
the axille.
Pain in the axilla, ll8 if it would be disloea~. -Rheumatic drawing tension
in the alins, with disability. - Jerking pains in the axilhe, arms, hands ~d fin-
gers.- Swelling and heat of tlie arm and hand, with twitching of the muscles,
and throbbing in them. ·
Twitching in the hip-joint, extending down to the knee.- Decurtation of the
leg.- Pains in the bones of the thighs and legs.- Rending, drawing and tension
in the thighs and legs, feet and toes. - Straining and sti.ffn.ess in the knees.-
Twitching, and pressing pain.on the shin. - Hard swelling of the calves: -.-
Twitching pain in the toes.
t 15. Millefolium.
Hamwrrhages from airpost all the openings ofthe body.
Rending and stinging in the right side of the head. - A sensation as ifall the
blood were rUing to the head. - Painful throbbing and beating in the head.
Epistaxis.- Htnnoptysis.- HtemOtemem. •.
Cramp in the stomach, with a sensation, as ifa ftuid were in it, passing through
the bowels to the anus.- Burning in the stomach.- A sensation as if the stom-
ach were full of an earth sticking together.
Bleeding lwemorrhoidB.
Htem01urw.
Metrorrhagia~
Rending in the knees. and legs.- The feet frequently benumbed.
116. Moschus.
_Dtfmtifm ofeffect: 24 hours.
Antidote: eamphora.
Digitized by Coogle
•
Moschus~ 241
Predominant t.ffecllf Prickling in all the muaeles. - Itching, which compels
one to rub, pinching and stinging on different parts of the body.- TetanUI. ~
Conwl.nonl. -: Fainting and weaknese, particularly with hy1teric person•. -
Various hysteric complaints. - HypochondriGc complaints, originating in the
genital '!litem.
Greaf sleepineBI in the daytime, with frequent and vehement gaping.- Coma.
-Inability, to lie for a length of time on one spot, at night, caused by painfulness
of the parts upon which one lies, as if they were wrenched or broken.-Vivid ·
dreams, in which one's honour is injured and every thing miscarries. .
Accelerated circulation of the blood.- Frequently a sell88tion, as if a cool air
passed over you, particularly on the parts uncovered.-The open air seems to be
cold, and one longs for a stove.- Frequently a light shivering from the head ex..
tending over the whole body, alternating with an agreeable sensation of natural
warmth.-Attacks of burning heat in the evening.-Perapiration, every morning.
Hypochondri~ and hysteric anxiety, with palpitation ofthe heart;
·Giddiness, and wavering before the eyes, with the least movement of the bead.
- Giddiness with qualmishness, lying down, and lqnging for coffee without milk.
- Obstupefaction, as from intoxication.
Headache with naUiea, compelling one to lie down.- Heaviness of the bead.-
Moping, compressing headache, particularly above the root of the nose.- TigMen-
ing, spasmodic drawing in the head, chiefly the occiput, extending to the nape.-
Congestion ofthe blood to the head.
Epistaxis.- Crawling in the point of the nose, as from chafers.
Heat in the face, with dimness of the eyes.
Sudden attacks of nausea.- Wambling in the pit of the stomach, with retrac-
tion of the navel, and cramping pain.
Pressure in the stomach.- Sensation offulneBB and oppression in the region of
the stomach and scrobiculUI, with wambling, increased by a moderate meal. -
Pungent burning soreness in the region of the stomach, after dinner.
Jerking grasping above the navel, with. obstruction of the breath.- Hy1teric
abdmninal cramps. - Sensation in the abdomen, as if all were too tight, with
anxiety, accompanied by an incapacity to do any work; or to rest in any place.
Constipation.
Strong excitement ojthe sexual passion.
The menses too early and too profUBe. - Drawing and pressing in the genit81s,
as ifthe menses would break forth.
Constriction ofthe trachea, asfr011l wapour ofsulphur.- Suffocating, sptJBmo-
dic constriction ofthe chest. - As~ma Millari.- Hy.teric cramps in the chest.
Vehement drawing in the nape and back, as ifone.were girded about.-Draw-
ing in the upper- and fore-arms, particularly the wrist, as if it would produce a
cramp•..,..Cool p1.1ngency in the fore-joints of the fingers.
Restleesnese in the lege, with a sell88Uon of disability, which makes it necee-
sary to move them continually.-Tingling 'Vibration ill the legs, as after filtigue,
when sitting.- Disabling weakne88 in the knees, as soon as one sits down, after
walking.
Digitized by Coogle
Muriaticum acidum.
i i 1. Muriaticum acidum.
Duration ofeffect: 5 weeks.
Antidotu: eampbora, bryonia.
Predominmat ejfut1: Draunng rending, and cutting in the limbe, whm tJt rnt,
relieved by motiOn. - Sorenct!8 ofall the jointa. - Painfulnelll of the perioeteum
ofall the bones, u in intennittent&-Dropsieal tumeftaetione.-Seropbulous com·
plaint&- Sluggiebneee, and shunning motion, with inclination always to sit.-
Ezce11ive lauitude, and as soon as be ill seated, bill eyes dose.- Tottering walk,
~oned by weaknees ofthe legs.-Great sensibility to damp weather.
Voluptuous, prickling itching and tickling. which makes scratching neee888ry.
- Scropbuloue eruptions.- Scurfy eMJption., which cause itching in the wanntb
' of the bed.- Furuncle, with a stinging pain when touebed.-Painful, putrt.cent
ulcers, with a marginal burning.- Carbuncles.
Great aleepines1 in the daytime, disappearing immediately after movement.-
Sleeplessness before midnight.- Before midnight, continual snoring, moaning,
toeeing about and talking, with gliding doum in the bed.-Frtqvet~tly early att~ak­
ing, from chills in bed.
Prevailing chills.- Shaking chilli, with gaping and stretching, without thirst,
. and not succeeded by heat.- Heat tllithout thir1t, with reetleesneee in the body,
and inclination to be uncovered, in the evening. - Putrid and nervOtU fever•.-
lntennittent pulse.- Night-sweats, in the evening, when falling asleep, or before
midnight.
. Sadneee. - Re~erVed taciturnity with anzioul 1olicitude and peevishness. -
Accumulation of many ideas about late events, when at work.- Inclination to
vexation and anger.
Vertigo, with a tottering walk. ,,
Headache from wlllking in the open air, particularly in a high wind.- Head·
ache, increased by rising in bed and motion of the eyes, disappearing by bodily
exercise. - Heavine11, particularly in the occiput, with dimness of sight, very
much increased by looking intently.- Headache, a if the brain were dilacerated
or cMUJhed.- Jerking, pushing, rending, or darti1tg pain in the head. ·
Itching biting in the canthi. -Stinging from the eyes outwardly.- Rednet!l
and swelling ofthe lids.- Hemiopia perpendicularis.
Spasmodic rending otalgia.- Throbbing in the ear.- Insellllibility in the in·
terior auditory p8llll8ge.- Scurfy erupuon in.the ear.-Dy.ecoia and deftfne-.-
A.eute bearing, with eensitivenel!ll to noiee.-Tingling, buuing and wbiiAiing in
the ears.·
Ulcerated noetrila.
Heafin the face, with ar,dent redne111 ofthe cheeks, when walkiDg in the open
air, without thirst.-Summer-freckles.- Scurfy en4ption of pimples in the face,
on the forehead and temples.- Furuncle on the temple.
Burning of the lips.- Pulpy under•lip.- ScurfY eruption of piaeples on
the lip8.
Digitized by Coogle
Muriaticum acidum. 249
Throbbing tooth· ache, increa.ed by drinking any thing cold, relieved by
warmth.- Tooth-ache preeeiBg asunder.-Creeping in the teeth.- Scorbutic
g1mf$.
!Jryne11 ofthe mouth, with palsy of the tongue.- Collection ofmuch llllliva in
the mouth.-Heavine11 ofthe tongue, when Bpeaking.-Deep ulcers and bladders
on the tongue.- Wasting oftbe.tongue.
Pain in the pharynx and on the palate, aa ifthey were sore and excoriated.
Taste in the throat, as {rom rancid fat. - Acrid, putrid taste in the mouth.-
Sweet taste ofall things, particularly of beer, which cal18ell loathing._:.. lMatiable
inclination to eat and drink.
Putrid or bitter eructation.-Vomiting of what has been eaten.- Nocturnal
vomiting ofbile, with qoalmishneM and eruction.
Stomaeh-ache, 88 from a vehement morbid affection.- SeMation ofemptine,.
in the stomach•.- Contracting pain in the stomach. - Pressing tension and com-
pression in the hypochondres.
Abdominal pain, 88 from a vehement morbid affection.- Fulness and disten-.
siOn of the abdomen. - Colic-like abdominal cramps, with cutting and pinching
from the umbilical region towards the sides of the abdomen, with rumbling. -
8eMation ofemptine88 in the abdomen. -Stitches in the groins.
Difficult evacuation! as from inactivity of the rectum. - The freces formed
too slender.- Diarrham, with rasping and burning in the rectum and anus.-
Ftectdent dia"haa. - Involuntary eseape of a thin watery stool, when urinating.
- Blood discharged with the .tool.- Prolapsus of the rectum, when urinating.-
Itching on the anus.- Swollen, blue hOJmorrhoidal tumors in ano, with a burning
soreness.- Bleeding hOJmOf'Thoids.
Stranguria.- Frequent urging to urinate, with a copious discharge.- Ex-
ceSsive discharge ofa watery urine.- Relaxation. of the bladder and the neck of
the bladder. · . •·
Soreness ofthe pneputium.- lndolentsexual passion.- Impotence.
Bearing down towanls the genitals, as ifthe menses would break out.- Men-
struation too early. -
Ol:istruction of the nose.- Coryza, with a thick, yellow, or watery, excoriitt-
ing mucus.
Continued hoarsene88.
Strong, asthmatic cough, succeeded by a rolling in the chest downward:;. ....!.
Hremoptysis.
Deep respiration, with moaning.
Stitches in the chest, when movirig strongly, or when breathing.·- Straining
pain on the sternum.- Cutting shocks in the chest, with a dull pressure in the
back-part of the chest, and with oppression.- Stitches about the heart.-The
palpitation ofthe heart so strong at night, that it is felt in the face.
Presaing pain in the back, as from frequently stooping or ·from injuries by im-,
proper lifting. - Stitches in the shoulder-bladea. - Furuncle on the back.
Disability and a wrenching pain in the shoulder. - Heavine86 ofthe arms. -
Pressing and rending drawing in the upper-aNTIB•....,: Drawing tension in the elbow-
joint.- Spasmodic pain and heaviness in tbe,fore-arlll&- Cutting tearing in the
Digitized by Coogle
·-
'
250 Muriaticum acidum.- Myristica.
fore-anns, harids and fingers. - Voluptuous, prickling itching and tickling in the
palms of the hands.- Scurfy eruption on the back of the luznth andfl~•·­
Spasmodic pain in the ball ofthe thumb, when writing. - Swellfug ofthe points
of the fingers, .with burning. - Numbness and deadness of the fingers, at night.
Spasmodic drawing and rending in the thighs. - Itching herpetic spots on the
thighs.- Swelling of the knees.- Drawing tension in the calfand tendo Achillis,
when walking.- Stitches through the tendo Achillis, day and night, which pre-
~ent walking and sleeping.- IQ.dolent ulcers on the legs.- Swelling-ofthe points
ofthe toes, with burning.
1f 8. Myristica.
Myridico motcAGIII.- N..t.,g. - Germ. ltlutcaiiiUIIi N'wz •••clulla.
Antidote: Semina cari caruL
Predominant effecta: Wandering, grubbing preaBing pains which constantly
occur only on small spots, of short duration, but soon return again. - Drawing
in the limbs, particularly when at rest, as after a cold.- Pains in the limb• and
jointB, and other complaints, originated by illfluence of(wet) cold weather. -The
complaints are increased by the cold air, and relieved by warmth. - Complaints
attended with sleepiness and propensity to fainting. - Faintingfits. - Hy1teric
paro:tyB1118 and complaints.- Apoplexia. - ConvulSions.- Cramp1, particularly
eclampBia ofchildren.- Particularly suitablefor women and children.---,Consump-
tion, with acrophulous person& - Tabes dorsalis. - Attacks ofchilliness, like a
sudden cooling after perspiration, with pain in the neck and all the bones.-Great
tenderness of the body, even a 11oft position, produces pains immediately, on the
part on which one lies. - Great irritation of the muscular system. - After the
smallest exercise, weakness, which makes it neceBBRry to lie down. - Great weak-
nell, particularly in the small of the back and the kneea, as after a long voyage,
with rleepine11.
Cool, dry Bkin, without dilposition to perspire.- Furuncles.- Chilblains.-
Wounds.
Great sleepineBB. ~ Moping drowBiness and coma.
'• Very eensitive to cool air, which occasionschillineas, with palene11 ofthe counte-
nance. - Chilliness. - Quartan fever. - Double tertian fever, with sleepineu,
. .
white furred tongue, a rattling in the throat, bloody expectoration and small thirat
during beat. ~ Typhus-fever.- Putrid fever.- Bloody perspiration.
Changeable humour, satisfied with nothing. - Groot inclination to laugh at
every thing; particularly in the open nir.- Changeable temper; now grave, now
gay.
Weak memory and forgetfulness. - Slow course ofthinking, want ofrecol~c­
tion, difficult comprehension.-:- ThoughtleameBB, with absence ofmind.- Imbe-
cility. - Presumption. - Mental confusion. - Insanity, with wild talking and
.improper behaviour. - Deliria. ·
o,gitized by Google
Myristic.a. 251
.Dizzineu and pressing heaviness in the head, particularly in the forehead. -:-
Reeling with anxiety, torpor and uncollllCidusneas.- Giddineu; ufrom intozica.
tion, with delirium or with uncollllCiousness.
Headache ·from a vitiated stomach. - Headache, compressing or pressing as-
under, with heaviness and dizziness. - Headache, particularly in the temp~
· (which are very tender to the touch), with.floating in the head, when 1haken,. a1 if
ihe brain preued agaimt the 1kuU, and internal heat in the head. - Throbbi~1g
pressing headache, particularly above the left eye. - The complaints ofthe head
mostly appear after meals, particularly after breakfast.
Dryness and 1en1ation of drgneu in the eye•, which makes the movement of
the lids difficult. - Tightness around the eyes, and in the lids.- Sense offulness
in the eyes, with contracted pupils.
Stinging otalgia.- A pain in the eustachian tube, as f~m a rough body (with
the change of the weather), before the appearance of wind and rain.
Pale countenance, and blue circles around the,eyes.- Summer-freckle• in the
faee. - A sensation ofswelling in the left halfof the face, with prickling, as from
an electric stream.
Tootb-ache with pregnant women; stinging and rending into the ears and
temples, with piercing in the teeth, when sucking, and exacllrbated by air and
touch. - Rending in the teeth at night, with inability to bring the jaws together,
which feel as if maimed. - Stinging tooth-ache, increued by external warmth. -
PrP.11ing in the teeth, u ifthey were bound in, with pain in the nape, from damp
airin the et~ening; the teeth aeem loose, and warm water relieves the pain. -
Tooth-ache after washing, and taking cold. - Jerks in the teeth (molares) after
drinking cold water. - The teeth 1et on edge, as ifcovered with chalk. - Bleed-
ing gum11.
Dryness, and 1emation of drgne11 in the mouth, without thirst. - Offensive
odour from the mouth. - Much thick mueu~ and 1aliva in the mouth. - Dryne11,
and 1emation ofdrgne11 on the tongue.- whlte slimy furred tongue.- Paralym
ofthe tongue and the organ. ofmallowing.
Great dryness, and sensation ofdryness in the throat, with roughness.
Taste in the mouth, as after eating much salt. - Papescent, chalky tute in the
mouth. - Ezculive hunger and appetite, parncularly at noon. - Diminished ap-
petite, and soon satiated. - Adiplia. - Exhaustion, and uneasiness after meals.
- Weak digestion.
Scraping eructation, soon after mealll. - Qualmishness and vomiting of preg-
nantwomen.
Fulness in the stomach, with.oppressive breathing.- Sensation of warmth
and burning in the stomach.- Inflation of the stomach.- Cramp in the_..stomach,
with great ~akne11 ofdige1tion. - Obstruction ofthe liver and sp~n. - Swel-
ling of the liver.- Semation ofhetitlinu1 in the hgpocbondre1, and the epigutrium.
-Colic-like rending in the abdomen.-Colica renalis.-.Diltemion ofthe abtfomen,
with qualmishnes8, and flatulency about the navel- Cutting in the abdomea
with lleepine11, occasioned by worm~~. - Flatulency, at night, dilturbing 1leep.-
Griping in the abdomen, with children. .
Tarly, 10jt 1tooll, evacuated with difficulty. - Diarrluzo, from weakneu or a
cold. - Putrid, bloody diarrh<Ba, in typhus fever. - Diarrh<Ba, 'like ellrdled eggs.
. Digitized by GopsJ.e
,_,. * ··t>+.
252 · Myristica.- Niccolum.
with anorexia, with children. - DiarrA-, 111itA undigettetl fteeel. - Diorrhma
tDitA anorezia and tleepinu1, IIIith children.- Worm-complaihtt.
Burning and eutting, when urinating. - Caleuli.- Painful strangury.- The
urine Blllelling like violet&
Defective sexual inclination. - Weakness ofthe sexual power. - Absence of
erections, even with voluptuous thought& - Impotence.- Escape of the prostatic
fluid.
Irregularity of the menses. - Detore meMtruation, pain in the small of the
back, and lassitude, with pressure in the stomaeh, water-brash and pains in the
liver.- During menstruation, urging in the abdomen about the navel downwards,
and drawing in the limbs. - The menstrual blood darker and thicker. - Metror-
rhagia. - False, powerless throes. - Spamaotlic throe1. - Threatening abortion.
Obltruction ofthe nose, particularly the left Bide.
Husky voice.- Hoarsene11 and catarrh. - Sudden hoarseness, from walking
against the wind.
Cough, with pain in the chest, as nit were raw.- Dry co.gh, IIIith obstruc-
tion ofthe breath, after getting cold in ~~~ater.- Dry cough, which comfa on when
getting wann by working, or in the bed. - Hmmoptysie. - Phthisis pulmonalis
purulenta.
Tightness of the chest.- Short breath after meal.. - Atthmatic retpiration.-
Tightness of the larynx, RS i{ it were constricted.
Oppression ofthe chest, mostly originating jn the pitof the s&omach.- Fulness,
and a sensation as from a heavy 111eight in tAe chest. - falpilation of the heart,
with fainting fits. - Tremor of the heart.
Drawing in the muscles ofthe nape, when exposed to a damp air.- Pa~ in
the 1mall of the back, and the back, 011 if bruised or beaten. - Pain in the back,
when riding in acarriage.
11 g. Niccolum.
Niccol- car6011ic••· - Qe... Nield.
Rending and stinging in the limbs, and other parts of the body. - The com-
plaints are most exacerbated in the evening and at night. - In the open air one
seems to feel better.
Itching herpes.
Frequent awaking at night, from restlessness. - Anxious, frightful, quarrel-
some dreams.
Prevailing coldne11. - Heat with vehement thirst, particularly in the evening
and at night. .
. Anxious pensiveness and timidity. - Tremor and fearfulness, with inclination
to solitude. - Aversion to speak. - Great inclination to contradiction.- Irascible
malice and quarrelsomeness.
Giddiness, with reeling and staggering, as if ftom w~ particularly in
the morning, when rising from bed.
Digitized by Coogle
Niccolum.- Nigella.
PainfullletnMeu antij'tdnu1 in the head, particularly the forehead, with reel-
q. - He.dacbe in both sides of the bead, as ifit would bunt. - Rending sting-
ing headache. - Headache, particularly in the room, and after walking in the
open air.
Frequent burning in tAe eye1, particularly towards evening. - Painful twifcla-
ing i" tAe eye1, with a aensation as if they would become inverted.- Great weak-
nell of tAe eye1, particularly in tAe evening, the sight vanishing with the least
· exertion.·- Objects appear enlarged, at a distance.
Stinging in the ears. - Sudden deafness, with buzzing and humming in the
ears, in the evening.
Redlle88 and swelling of the fore-part of the noee, with burning and tearing in
it.-Eruption on the nG8e and lipe.-Broad blotches in the red part ofthe under-lip.
Heaviness of the face, as if it were swollen. - Painfulness and cramp of the
maxillary joint, which makes .it difficult to open the mouth.- Itching herpes on
the cheeks. ·
Swelling of the gums. - Gnawing tooth-ache, in the evening. - Tooth-ache,
with rending in the ears..- W7len IJ'UCking, a lour o.ffenlivejl.uid comeafrom all
the fiiOltJrU,
Collection of much sweetish saliva in'the mouth. - Offensive odour from the
mouth, not perceived by one seU:
Pains in the throat, particularly when speaking and gaping, in the evening. -
Stinging pains in the throat, when swallowing.- Inflammation of the throat,
'With swelling of the right toruDl and side ofthe face, and tenderness ~f that side of
the throat to the touch. - Spasmodic choking and contraction of the throat.
Taste in the mouth, 88 fro~ dour, in the morning, when awaking. -Taste
i9 the mouth 88 from burnt dour, when eructating. - Anorexia. - ·.Thir1t in the
evening.
Vehement hickupping, particularly in the evening.
Sensation ofemptineu and fasting in the stomach.- Cutting in the serobiculus
and bypochondres.
Griping in the abdomen, with diarrb<ea.
Hard, drm, tardy stool&- Conltipation.- Diarrhooa with tenesmus and burn-
ing in the anus, frequently preceded by cutting in the abdomen.
Increased urine, also at night.- Burning urine.
Menses too early, but too weak and too short. - LeueorrhCllL
Much sneeziJlg, without coryza. - Obstruction of the nose.
Stinging in the che1t,. particularly when laughing.·- Soreness in the chest.
Knaeking sound, and wrenching pain in the napt>, when rising up from stoop·
ing. - Itching herpes on the hipe. - Cramp in the toes.
t 20. Nigella.
Ni1•ll• talif•·- Fttuoef• /f0fl1<r; Devil iN tlu bwoA. - Germ. ScA•arslt••<l.
Antidote: Hydrargyrum.
It an110er1 weU after: aconitum.
After it an110er 10ell: hydrargyrum, nux vomica, platina.
22
Digitized b; Goog_l~
---- -----
:; . --.--
Nigella.
Great nerYOQII weaknam and general niuatlen. - Stmehiag at the limbrt
with frequent moaning. - Restlessnea, when aitq aad lying. - Reedess jaeti-
tation ofthe body.-Difficuhy in raising the llody, in the eTening.- Ineellllibility.
-~Complaints appearing chiefly after dinner, towards evening and at night, or
increased in the room u well, u in the opea air, or by si&ting or lying in bed.-
Coughing,imeezing andspeaking, eaUiefJ an exacerbation ofthe complaints.-.Epi--
leptic fit•, which are succeeded by an appearance of broad blotches in the nape ,
and, on the shoulders, grouped in a circle.- Great lleiUiitivenees to cold air•.~
Inclination to lie down.
Continual dryness and parchment-like tension of the skin, attended with a
raiaed temperature ofit.-Softness and perspiration of the skin.
Frequent gaping.- Sleepinees, preceded by gaping and stretching. --lrre.flis..
tible inclination to sleep.- Restless sleep, towards evening, interrupted by
anxious frightful drealll8. -Coma.- Much unintelligible talking in sleep. - M~
muring in sleep.- Sleeplessnesa.- After sleep, weakness and sensation of sore-
ness through the whole body. -Sensation ofweaknees in the occiput, after sleep.
Very sensitive to cold air, succeeded by shivering in the small of the back.-
Cold shivering 8long the whole back, and on the abdomen. ..;... Goose.ekin on the-
arms. - Sometimes a chilly shivering with adipsia. - Sudden vehement shaking
chills through the whole body.- Thirst, with coldness in the face and on the
hands. - Cold shivering, succeeded by flushes of bqrning heat in the back and
small of the back, relieved by rising. -- During the chill8, cloudiness of mind, un·
conseiousnees, indifference.- Sensation of warmth over the whole body, witll
incipient perspiration.-Copious perspiration on the breast and abdomen.- Pulse
smsll, frequent, weak, I!Carcely perceptible to the touch, sometimes intermittent.
-Weak, irregular, imperfect palpitation of the heart, 88 if there were an +
struction.
Fretful peevish humor. - Sadness and reservedness.- Contin11al rear, 88 if
something dreadful would happen.- Easily frightened.- Great anxiety.- Some-
times laughing or weeping suddenly.- Hasty speech.
Mental confusion. - Frequently talking without cOI\nexion. -lndi1ference.- .
Disinclination to labour.
Dizziness and stupefying pressure in the head.- Vertigo.- A sensatie~n as if
the body wavered in the open air.
Se~tion of coldness and soreness in the ~hole head. - An intermittent sen-
sation .
of coldness in the right side of the head, increased when stooping, and
. ascending a height. - Burning and shooting in the forehead, alternately with a
sensation of coldness. - Sensation of emptiness in the forebead. - A heavy dull
pressure in the vertex·and occiput, as if tilled in with lead, when sitting. - Sen-
sation ofsorenees in the right side of the occiput.-Pricking and twitching, some-
times a scraping in the occiput, as ifon the periosteum.- Pain pressing outwards
in the temples.-Violent congestion of blood to the head, ·attended with an inter-
mittent throbbing in the vertex, after motion.- Rending and boring in the vertex,
towards evening. - Dissevering pain in the sides of the head, when exerciaing in
the open air.- Heat in the head, with sudden stitches and jerks towards the front.
-Pressure in the forehead, and stinging in the right frontal tuber and temple.-
Digitized by Coogle
Senatien of he.vUte.l about. the ey-.-Vehement blll'lliDg in the depth of the
brain, with &equant pulaatioD.
Minute pricking in the skin of the head. - Creeping and prickling on the
whole head.- Heat of the forehead.- Shooting stitehea in the right eye-brow,
e.nendiDg to the midcUe of tbe forehead. - Rubbing the pillows with the head,
with a qht degree ofclelirium.
Cloudiness and eblcuration of the eyes, after motion, particulal'ly after sneez-
iDg and c.:oughing.-Protruded and glistering eyes, sometimes with an impre88ion
as if ·a black veil were hanging befere ·them, sometimes with an appearance of
IIDlBll dark·spots. -Frequent twitching of the right eye-lid. - Burning and itch-
ing in the right eye, with a running.- Vehe~ent pressure and pulsation in the
orbits.-8ell88tion ofweakness, tension, pressure and disability in the upper lids.
- Difficulty in closing the lids.- The eyes partially open, with a staring, incon-
8&ant look.- A dirty-yellow color ofthe eyes. '
A lancinating and boring pain in the left ear. - Rending tension in the ex-
terior of the right ear. - Strong pulsation in the interior of the left ear. ~ A
etinging rending pain in the right ear, extending to the cavily of the mouth.-
Frequent seqsation ofheat in the ear, after awaking.-Buzzing rustling and mur-
muring, as when water rushes down from an. eminence. - Diminished sense of
. hearing.- Dyaecoia.
8eii8Btion of sorene~~S, extending from·the root ofthe nose through the whole
head.- A rending forwanl pain in the root of the nose, with a frequent boring
88118ation. - DefectiTe secretion of mucus in the nose. -Tickling in the right
nostril, sometimes a slight rending towards the fauces.- Violent pricking and
gnawing on the left wing of the nose, after exercise.- A few dropa of blood dis-
charged from the nose. -Thin, watery discharge from the nose. - Sensation of
eOldness in the pOint of the nose.- Painfully itching vesicles on the mucus mem·
brane of the right nostril, vehemently burning after scratching.-Nauseous odour
in the nose, like the vapor of blood.
Blueish-white, yellowish, sunken countenance.- Bloatednees of the right
side of the fBce. - The left llide of the tace vilited by a drawing tightening pain,
and somewhat red. - A sensatioll ofcoldness and rasping in the moo, with incli·
nation to fainting. -Vehement itching in the eye- brows. - Livid circles around
the eyes.
The lips pale, dry, cracJu:d.-Tremor, sometimes spasmodic twitching of the
upper-lip.- A red vesicle on the upper-lip, vehemently itching.- Whitish-yellow
itching vesicles on tJ!e right ·angle of the mouth, which Pr-event sleeping at night.
- Sometimes a slight distortion of the right angle ofthe mouth downwards, in
the evening. ·
Prickling in the mastoid process ofthe left side.-Tightness in the lower jaw. '
- Boring pain in the lei\ side of the lower jaw.- A. gnawing, sOmetimes rending
sensatiOn in the chin, as ifon the periosteum.
· A vehement boring, sometimes rending pain in the two anterior molares of
the right side.-Transient stitchea in the incisors of the lower maxilla.-Nervous-
tooth-ache. - General sensation of soreness in the gums.- Whitish v-Ies on
the gums, violently itching.- Blueisll-red color of the gums.
8ellll8tion of heat in the whole mouth, ~culal'ly in the phar.yu, attendro
' .
o;2
itized by,Google
256 Nigella.
with great dryne-.- Diminilhed eecretion ofllllliva, with dryne. and a prellllinK
pain in the throat.- The tongtie dry, dark-red, almOI!It brown, cracked, diftlcult
to move, wiLb burning heat on its point.-The papille erected.
Bright redneas of the left tonail, without pain. - SJ18111Dodic drawing in' the
,pharynx, towards the left jaw.- Sensation of soreness on the right side of the
pharynx. - Sensation of beat in the ali!Ophagua, increued after drinking cold
wa~r, relieved for a short while after sourish-elimy liquids.-Difficult deglutition,
the liquids remaining for a long time in the mouth, in the evening.
Nauseous sweetish taste, sometimes insipid or raneid. - Aversion to warm
food, pRrticularly meat, and longing for sourish liquida. - After meals, towardB
evening, vanishing of the senses with fuintishness. - Violent insatiable thirst,
which becomes intolerable from the warmth ofa stove.
Nauaea.- Eructation ofmere wind, 'without any taste or odour.- Regurgita-
tion.....:. Inclination to vo~it, without vomiting.- Heart-bum, with oppreseion of
the .cheat.- Inclination to vomit, after smoking tobacco.- Hickupping wilh a
pressing pain in the chest.
Tension in the pit' of the stoma~h, with throbbing in the left Bide in the region
of the spleen. - Opprei!Sion and anxiety in the pit of the stomach. - Great sensi-
tiveness of the stomach. - Shocks and sometimes gnawing and drawing pains in
the bottom of the stomach; considerably increased by inspiring end stooping, and
by drinking cold water. - Compressing pain in the pyl<¥11& - Compression of
the stomach towards the breast, like suffocation, intolerably increased, when lying
down.- Rumbling and rolling in the stomach, with a sensation ofweaknei!S and
wambling in it. ·
Swelli~g of the right hypochondrium, towards the diaphragm, wlaich ea'lllletl a
comprei!Sion of the lungs. - Sin~le stitches, a8 from fine needles, aDd an inward
drawing pain in the left hypochondrium.- Vehemendy pressing, or outward
rending pains in the liver. - Burning and continued dull preMUre and throbbin~
in the liver, most vehement after meals.- HepatitW.
Distension of the abdomen, with a sensation offulness. - Transient stitches in
the abdomen, towards the groin, alternating with a sensation ofsoreness.- Grip-
ing and pressing in both sides of the abdomen, with a sensation of constriction,
increased when walking. - Cutting and pinching in the umbilical region. -
Clucking and quivering above the navel, as if the stomach were in a tremulous
motion , interrupted by short intervals. - Burning pain below the navel, before
midnight.- Burning and cutting pain on a circumscribed spot of the right Bide of
the abdomen,· attended with violent anxiety and oppression of the chest.-A sen-
sation ofexternal coldness extending from the abdomen to the sacral region, when
sitting. - Enteriti1. - Griping and rolllng in the abdomen. - A dissevering pain
in the right lower Bide of the abdomen, with a painful drawing towards the geni-
tals, after drinking water.- Rolling in the abdomen &om below upwards_, with a
sensation, as if something ~ere turning about below the naveL- Difficult, or
frequent discharge of wind.
Costiveness.- Small discharge of hard dark-brown fieees, every other day.-
Sometimes urging to stool, with a painful pressing. -Before evacuation, sensation
of heaviness and weakness in the small of the back and legs, which hardly ean be
moved.- After evacuation, a sensation of easiness in the abdomen. - Prickling
. '
Digitized by Google
Nigella. 267
and formication, most frequently a ·buroing pain in the rectum and anua, with
urging to evacuate.
Itching and creeping in the urethra.- SpjU'iug, brown-red, beer-like urine-,
depositing a email whitish eediment, or a thick dirty-yellow cloud, with vehement
burning, which extends into tJie ureter& - Blind piles begin to bleed. - Copioua
hemorrhoidal dow.
Itching and creeping in the glans penis. - No erection& - Diminished aexual
desire.
Itching and creeping on the interior of labia pudendorum. - Menstruation •
14 to 18 days too early and very copious, with violent stinging and rending paiw1
in the hypopatrium and IIII1Bil of the back, dull outwards prelllling pain in the left
side above the arcus 088ium pubis, pressing headache in the vertex, attended by
a sensation as if beaten, in the whole body. -Suppressed lochia, with drynet111 of
the vagina, and burning heat in it.-P~al-fever.
Frequent, vehement sneezing. - Obstruction ofthe nose. - Running coryza.
Weak, trembling, indistinct, almost tonelees vo~ce.- Impeded speech.-
Pressing and scraping in the larynx. - Tightening drawing pain in the epiglottis.
- Dryness, tickling, and soreness in the trachea, particularly at night. - Con·
striction of the trachea, as from the vapour of sulphur.- Dry cough, succeeded
by a scraping and quivering sensation in the larynx.
Scanty, deep, very difficult, 8tertoroua ~piration, through the open mouth,
connected with great anxiety.- The respiration frequently interrupted, as if the
air could not be expired.- Inspiration wore euy than expiration.
Sensation of heaviness, and pressure, in the depth of the cheSt. - PressinA'
pain in the lei\ side of the chest, towards the shoulder, with an external burning.
- Sudden deeply penetmting stitches in the right lobe of the lungs. - Compres-
sion of the lungs, with frequent jerking stitches, extending into the axilla. -A
seD88tion as if the whole chest were too narrow.- Sensation of weakness, empti·
ness and dabbiness in the chest.- Single, sudden jerks, like electric shocks, in
the chest. - Tremor of the heart, when walking.- Strong congestion ofblood to
the chest, with palpitation of the heart.-Wcak, irregular heart·beating.
Prickling in the left side of the breast. - Pressing burning J:Un in tile breast,
worst when sitting and lying.-When rising, a sensation of torpor in the breast.
- Sometimes a sensation of icy coldness extending over the breast towards the
right shoulder.- The mamme wasting and dabby.
Shocks and jerks through the throat and head, when lying. - Boring and
rending in the cervical vertebre towards the inside, extending to the occiput,
when rising up and walking. - Stinging and tension in the muscles of the throat.
-Spasmodic stiffness ofthe throat.- On die shoulders and between them, many
bright-red, hard, sometimes itching vesicles, vehemently burning when scratch-
ing. - Formication along the whole back , after midnight. - Strong throbbing,
sometimes siJddtmly transient shocks and jerks in tile spine. - SeiUiation of weak-
ness in the amall of the back.
Prickling and tingling in the left. upper-arm. - Numbness and torpor ol the
arms.- Rending in the joint of the upper-arm.- Violent stitches in the right
elbow. -Intermittent spasmodic motions of the brachial muscles. -Pain in the
Digitized by Coogle
Nigella. - Nitri acidum.
upper-erm, when coupmg.- Un1YielcliD.eee ofthe arms.- Sudden deep stinging
, in the litde finger .ofthe left hand, almoet intolerable, at night. -Burning, some-
times drawing teDSioo in the' palm.e of the hande, dil8ppearing after the exertion
ofthe banda. - ReDding in the thumb of the left hand into the wrist. - Tension
in the beck ofthe right hand, and 't'ehement rending in the right thumb.
Along the whole outside of the thigh a burning itching, as if the epidermis
were inftamed, disappearing when exereilling.- Prea~ure and aeneat.ion of heavi-
ness in the thighs.- Sudden stitches in the thighs, extending into the abdomen.
- Rending in the right hip-joint.- Frequent 11tretchiJI8 and extending of the left
thigh. - Sensation of 110reness In the right thigh. - Tremor of the legs when
walking. - Rending teneion in the right bend of the knee. - Seneat.ion ofan iey
coldneee with epasmodic drawing in the left knee. - Heaviness in the legs. - Im-
mobility and disabling seneat.ion in the legs, in the morning when rising. -Jerks
in the legs. - Rending and constrinM pains in the exterior ankles. - Piercing
in the big toe of the right foot. - SeiU!IIItion of coldness, alternating with beat, on
the beck of.the foot.- Cold feet.
f2L Nitri acidum.
l>uration ofeffect: about 7 weeks.
Antidotu: crunphora, calcis earbonas, conium (when weakness Is produced
by it), mezereum, petroleum (in deafness), ealcis sulphuretum, sulphur.
Used as antidotefor: hydrargyrum, caladium1 ealeis earbonas (when naUIJell
succeeds its application).
It amtDers well qfter: belladonna, hydrargyrum, potuMl earbonu, pulsatilla,
sulphuretum ealcis, tbuya.
After it tm~U~er weU: ealcis earb., petroleum, pulsatilla.
Pretlominant effects: Stitching pains, u jrqtn splinters, especially when touched.
- Rending in the limbs, or dtawing, particularly after taking cold. - lnjlq.m• '
mation and pai7ifulners ofthe bones.- Caries.- Rhachitis. - .Intlammation, 8t1JeZ.
ling and mppuration ofthe glandr. - Knacking In the joints. - Hysteric com-
plaints of diJferent kindr. - Chlorotic altd icteric complaints. - Epileptic fits. -
Bad consequencesfrom the·miitue of'ITII!f'cury. - Inveterate syphilis.- Sycosis.-
IntlalWnation ofinterior organs.-Paine with the change of the weather.-Pains,
perceived during rleep. - Exacerbation of the pains in the evening and at night.
- TM mort pains are relielled by riding in a carriage.- Particularly suitable and
suceesefully to be repeated after basic remedies. - Seldom mitahlefor iltdividuals
with a light colored hair.
General great wellknus and ltusitude with tremor and heaviness ofthe legs.-
Great languor in the morning. - E:rcesrive meagerneu. - EMily taking cold.
Dryness of the skin. - Itching nettle-rash, also in the taee, iD the open air.-
Black pores. - Br01.0n-red rpotr and dark summer-freckles on the skin. - Itehing
herpes. - Paitiful chilblains and corll8.- With an inconsiderable coldness, ftozeD,
Digitized by Coogle
Nitri acidum. 259
inflamed, itching limbe with a cracked akin.- Greatjurunclu.- Copiously bleed·
ing tDOUn46, and ulcer• attended tllith 1titching paim, as from 1plinter1, or with
burning. - Ulce~ with a bloody corroding ichor. - Mercurial ulcer1.- Pains
in o14 cicatrices, from a change of the weather.
Sleepinee& in the daytime, from weakness, with giddiness.- Late sleep inJhe
evening, and awaking betimes in the morning, or with difficulty.- Restlei!IB coma
\'igil, with frequent, also frightful awaking.- Many, lascivious or anxious dreams.
-Night-mare.
General eoldnel!ll!l ofthe.Min.- Continual chillinu•.- FeYer in the afternoon,
chills and heat. - Internal beat without thirst, either continued or by attackll. -
Dry heat at Dight, with much tbint.- Offensive, sour smelling night·~Weatl.- ·
Sourish perspiration, like the urine of horses, during the day. ' · •· ~
Dejection and sadness. - Anzioul about his disease, with the feM ofdeath. - .
Aversion to labour.-ld:cemtle nervotU irritation, particularly after the milme o}
merCfWfJ.- Reee!'Vedness.- Freiftdt~eu and obstinacy. - Vehemence. - Long
continued rancor. -Attacks offury and deapair, with cursing and nearing.
Weak faculty ofthinking, with disinclination to mental labour.
Giddiness, when walking and litting. - Giddinees, which makes it necessary
to He down, particularly in the morning. .,
Headache, in the morning, when awaking. - Great tendemees ofthe head to
the rattling noiee ofwaggons, and to the noise which is produced by stepping hard
on the ftoor.- Attackl ofhemicrania, with naU«a and vomiting. - Heaviness and
sensation of fuinel!ll in the head, with tenlion and pressure extending, into the
eyes.- Rending in the foreheal.l, vertex and occiput. - Stitche1 ift almost all parte ··
ofthe head, 110metimes making it neeeseary to lie dawn, and disturbing the sleep at
night. - Throbbing headache. - Congeltion of the blood 1o the head, and much
heat in it. - Drawing pressing pain in the bone• ofthe head.
Painful tenderness of the scalp; the covering of the head (hat or eap) causes a
preesure. - Tightne88 of the scalp. - Itching in the hairy part ofthe head. -
Oozing emption on the head. - The hair falling off.
The eyes lustreless and deep seated. - Prelling mad •tinging in the etjel. -
b!fl1Jmmation ofthe eyu, particularly after mppreued 'Yf'hili8 or after the miltue
ofmercury.- Suppuration ofthe eytll!.- Speckl in the cornea.- In the morning,
difficulty to open the eytll! (which are yellow bordered).- Paley ofthe upper-lid.
- Difficult contraction ofthe pupils. - Myopia. - Diplopia. - Flying black 3p0t1 ·
before the eyu. - The eyes dazzled by the day-light.
Stinging in. the etJf"'. - Dryness of the interior of the ear. - Caritll! o( the
processt18 mastoideU& - RunJCing eMI. - Galling behind the eal'l!, with itching
and festering. - Obstruction of the ears.- 1Jy1ecoitl, particularly from elongation
ofthe tonsils (after the misuse of mercury).- A sensation as ifsomething were
put before tlie ear. - Craekliftg, throbbing and buizing in tile ear~. - Crackling ··. .
in the ear,·when masticating. - Swelling of the parotides.
The point ofthe nose red, with scurfy vetricltll!. - Itching herpes on the wing
of the nose. - Stinging mthe n&e, a1 from 3plinter1, when touehed. - Excoria~ .
tion, burning and 1cab1 in tile ~·- Epilt~, from weeping, or in the morning;
o;g;ttzed by Coogle
260 Nitri acidum.
with black blood.- Offensive odour in the nose, when breathing through it..:_
Stench from the noae.
Pale countenance, with sunken eyes. - Yellowness ofthe face, or around the
eyes, with red cheeks. - Spa81Dodie pain and rending in the cheeks and zygomatic
bones. - Swelling of the cheek& - Eruption of pimplu in theface, on the fore-
head and templee.- Itching eruptions and herpea in the whiskers.- Black poree
in the face.
Swollen lips. - Cracked lips. - The lip& and comers of the mouth ulcerated.
- Ulcers in the red part of the lips. - Furuncle on the chin. - Pairtful i1oeUing
J 1'-C.4p~C4~ ofthe IUbma.rillary gltrnd.. , ·
'71· IN- ~~Jilting, drawing stinging, or throbbing tooth-eoh~ mostly •t Jlish~ .or in the
~ .f~ eve~ng in bed.- Pains in hollow teeth.- The teeth getting yellow and.Zoo.e.-
';,'J.::h..J!f.ite, swollen, bleeding gums. .
Stomacace.-Putrid, ctulaverom 1tench ofthe mouth.-Soreneae ofthe tongue,
palate and inside of the gums, with a vehement, prickling pain;_.:.. &lituJtW.., also
i,n febrile attacks.- Great dryness of the mouth with vehement thirst.- Sypkilitic
and mercurial uleerl in the mouth andfaucel, with pricking pains.
Inflammation of the throat, with pricking pains, also after misuse of mercury.
-Burning and 1orenu1 in the throat.
. Tute bitter, also after taking food.- Sour talte, with burning in the throat.-
YJi..u- u #o- Sweetish taste in the ~outh. - Great thir1t, also with phthisis pulmonalia puru-
/~..r_..fa lenta. -Loathing of meat. -Aversion to bread, and sour taste and vomiting from
c;.,-.J::f~ it. - Appetite for earth, chalk, lime. - Indige1tibility of milk. - Qualmishness,
~- s~.,..t(. after eating fat.- PerapiratU1n, during and qfter meall. -After meals, fulnei!s
~ ,1.. 1~ in the stomach, languor and from a small movement, heat, perspiration, and pal-
w~ w~-u-,pitatiOn of the heart. .
~ i~ Sour eructation. - Inclination to vomit.
.i?'7'· Pain in' the stomach (pylorus), when swallowing food. -Contracting cramp
1
"'1, t£, in the stomach. -;- Stitche1 in the pit of the 1tomach. - Tightening pu11iAg and
tt.itl
iW . . . h l"'h h dri .
'··r . shn!J1-ng m t e en ypoc on um.
~...,..
~ Abdominal painfrom taking cold.- Excessive in&tion of the abdoineR, in the
;":~. morning.- Frequent pinching and cutting in the a~domen.- Ulcerous pain in
1 the hypogastrium. - Stitche1 in the abdomen, when touched.- Inguinal hernia,
J;fi::;!;"also with children. - SweUing and tuppuratWn ofthe inguinal glandl. - Easily
.~ iii. taking cold in the abd11men. - AccumulatU1n oftDind in the abdomen.- Rumbling
-r:;~ in the-abdomen.- Ob1tructed.flatulency, partieulariJ in .the morning and evening.
•.: If:.{!~ Dift_icult, irregular evacuation.- Co1tivene11.- DpY stooL- Too frequent ·
£.., Wu- stool1.- Urging to stool.- Purging ltooll, frequently slimy or.ofa putrid stench.
-..,.J. -Stinking, undigested evacuations. - Dysenteric; bloody 1tooll, with tenesmus.
A
.,o-1 c,.~~- Before evacuation, belly-ache. - After e-vaeuation. excessive irritation and re-
,~,.., P:r.. laxation.- Burning and itching in.the anut and recmm. - Oozing excoriation on
~t:Jt:U the anus.- Swollen, old hamwrrlwidal tumor1, bleeding with eTery stool.
rt~~ Frequent urgency to urinate, with a smalldischarge ofoffensive, dark or brewn
"'J{..-. ; ' · urine. - Incontinence pjJhe u~ -:-.Pamful micturition. - The urine discharged
c-:rL::f',cold.- Stinlrting urine.·.::::.. Red~ent, sand and gravel in the urine. - Rasping
01 "'~~ burning, when urinatiJ:lg.- Discharge ofslime, sometimes bloody, and of pus
i~-~from ~he urethra.- GonorrlltBa vera, with condylomata..-Gonorrhma secundaria.
• ',".:1)1~7 rle:t· f""'-"~14<4. J~.i~ :.r~~ 1-.u ~u-- h
)--.~ ~:l·i£Wi-ru- ~. ~.ahuu..- "" "~. s~ v
'' /_,;<:o... II ,....... •. f: . f'l '~
. I .. r ..-r f!.WU J atv4. h'- tr...._ T ~ • ~~ ~
fL-.., ft.j.t4.. Jt /tttJ~1 ~~~ ~ ~~ ~14t
' -. ,..,
__ ..,.
L.:. ~ tt(.... !-.e.-l I )(,.,... L;£7' . ,..., 1.•. ,·
~ . - · w """~ .ru f t:X3-t-1·
A , 'f~~I t1lc J(u..(. ~ ~....,.,')Q, ~1,.//; ~ t?
, .. ~~~·~bN/1 I
~ ~ .M; ~..._'3(. Aa.n.-.. .~ ·
6 J£._ ~,;f ~~ ~~·•11
1'7~ -~ 261 ~[_..
Much itching on the genitals. - The hair fulling offon the mons veneris. -
Galling between the ecrotum and thigh.- Balano-blennorrhrea.- Swelling and
inflammation of the pneputium; phimosis.- Chancre-like ulcer• on the pnepu- ; t
tium and _»!ans. ""'::. ~yZmrun•· - The testicles hanging down. - Inflammatory :;':· ·:!_
..,:. ··
IJV)eUing
~ojltJf;;tUe;,'With painful drawing in the spermatic cords, extending tot.,( •.· 1. ,
the side1rthe abdomen. ~Defective 1exual incli7Uition anil ablence ofcrectionl. . · .. · ' · ~
-Great lustfulneas, with discharge of much prostatic B.uid.- PaiJiful, almost ·,· 1. <';
spasmodic erections, at night. - Too many seminal emissions.
Itching llJld dry heat on the pudenda. - Stitches in the ngina. - Galling on
the pudenda, between the thigh. - Burning itching ulcer in the vagina. - Men-
struation too early: - Suppre81ed memes. - During menstruation, cramps in the
abdomen; pressing and urging towards the genitals. - Slimy, offensive, corroding
leucorrhrea. - A brown discharge from the vagina. ofa putrid stench.
. .
Interrupted sneezing. - Dryness and olntruction ofthe no1e.- Gravedo. . ~-u.d£
Hoar1ene11 with coryza, cough and stinging pains in the throat. - Roughnesskt ,o\...
in the chest.- &raping and stinging in·the trachea. particu1arly after reading or~
talking for a long while.- Phthisis trachealis.· /1,/,.i-..r .
Cough, with stinging and 110reness in the throat and chest. - Cough only inJ! ~~
the daytime.- Dry bellowing Cough, p8rticu1arly in the evening, when lying · ~.:"I.
down. - Concussive cough, at night, with an obstruction of breath. - When!,~
coughing, stitches in the bsck.- Short cough, with expectoration ofblack coagu- ~
lated blood. - Phthisil ulcero1a (particu1arly after pnmous use o£ potasse car-e,;~JtU.·~
bonas). · ~~
· Galping relpiration, particularly with manual labour.- 7'igktnell qfthe che1t.-,-.. · ,
-Short breath.- Want of breath and palpitation of the heart, when walking ~f _
and aecen$ling steps. "'~
Contracting cramp in the cheat. - Stitohu through tke brealt and its sides. - f p;t,.,"': ·
Soreness in the chest, when breathing and coughing.- Congution ofbloo6 to the ~<4
chelt' with anxiety, heat and palpitation ofthe heart.- Knotty induration ofthe If:;.. '~
maiome.- The mamm.e'wasting away. ~ 8...h
Pains in the lumbar region and the back, after taking cold. - Stinging in and ~
behoeen the shoulder-liladu. - Sti.ff'na• ofthe neck. - SweUing ofthe jugular and it.JJuJA.
t~:rillary g~ndl. - Suppuration ofthe axillary glands. · ~ 1
Pressing pain on tlJe,.IJhoulder-joint.- DratDing in the anm.- Twitching of tt..,;;::...
the mueclea ofthe upper-amt- Pain as ifbeaten, in the upper-arm, which pre..., ;_/_
• vents raising it.- Drawing and rending in tke fore-tlf"f'M and hand~.- Cold ~')
hands.-Roughs in ofthe hands.-Tightenjllg pain ofthe finger-joints.-Swel- ~~
ling ofthe finge particularly in the joints, with stinging pains.- Numbness of~~
the fingers, and torpor ofthem in cold &!r. - Chilblain. on tl'eji~ers and handi.J,.,~,I
-Herpes between the finger~J.- White spots on the finger-nails.- Warts on~&.JL~
~~ . . ~L
Pain in the hip, as if wrenched, with Hmping. - Weakness, heaviness, and~­
coldnell ofthe legs and feet.- Draf/Jing and rendiw.g in the leg1 ani.feet.-&lt·& ,
le1mus in the leg•, in the evening. - Itching on the thighs. - Pain in the thigh,~ utJ
when ming from sitting.-Pain in dle pstella, whie~ does not allow stepping on. ~~
- Stifthess and stiuging in dle knee. - Kniekling of the knee.. and foot-joints. - '-- ~
1tfl,.&- Lu, tl. CHt- L:,tllfl - @.~ P- ~ fl-J, ti r .
1 - J.. . /1 , • vf!_ ~ . ~iJpr;;_ h'
.>l~-,LI- • 'tt ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~J..., ·- ..... '-~- • I
7£·fHl:' "" k..;..vt: • DigilizedbyGoogle
" JAW
..·.. .
262 Nitri acidum. -'Spiritus rether~ .nitt:~9i~ - Nux vomica.
Infirmity of the knees.- Vehe~ent ·,;;~~in.the calves, at night and towards
morning, also 10hen walking after sitting. - Twitching in the calves. - Stinging
In the heel, when stepping.- Stinking fuoWiweat.- Chilblaif&IJ 011 the tOf!ll.
122. Spiritus retheris nitrici.
Used u an antidotefor: calcis carbonas, causticum, conium, opium, potasse
nitras, potlls!!le carbonas, sepia, sod~e murias (aleo in tedious consequences of
poisoning with it).
f23. Nux vomica.
Strgcluco• 11112: •Ofllica.- PoiiCHt- nut. - Germ. Bred.n1111 i Brll~ntlllfnt.
Duratitm ofeffect: in chronic cases 3 to 4 week&
.,. Antidotes: aconitum, alcohol, camphora, chamomilla, coffea cruda,.coffea tosta,.
~culus, pulsatilla, vinum. '
U.ed u an antidotefor: ambra, al'!lenicum, calcis carbonas, chamomilla, coc-
~culus, coffea, colchicum, cuprum, digitalis, graphite&, lachesis, petroleum, phos-
' ':~phorus, pulsatilla, stramo11ium, sulphur, tabacum.
It a1Ut0ef's t~~ella.fter: arsenic!Um, ipecacuanha, lachesis, phosphorus, sulphUI',
but causes exacerbation, after zincum.
After it (or given alternately with it) have a good effect: bryonia (in affections
'ofthe stomach), pulsatilla, in dropsy•
. ' ·.~ ·• '
Predominant effects: Rheumatic and arthritic rending and drawing, or tight-
.. 'ness and stiffness in the limbs. - Bruising paiM, particularly in the limbe and
joints, and chiefly in the morning, in bed.- Concussive, jerking stitclae1 through
· the whole body.- Con111ll3ion8 and 8ptJ8f710dic pa~sms, also epileptic.- Faint-
. , . ' l..
'ing fit•, in the morning and after dinner. - Hy.t~ and hypochondriac com-
• .,··-.:'.·. plaints. - Swelling and induration of the glands. - Serophulous complaints.-
,.· ·.• Chlorotic and icteric complaints.- Gtl8trip and bilious disorders ofdifferent kinds,
.. .~ particularly with pregnant women. - ltVfuenza. - In1lammatioll8 of interior or-
.gans.- Conge•tiof&IJ ofthe blood..- Apoplexia.- Paralyris, with coldness ofthe
..... parts.-Manifold complaints and bad consequence•from mental ezertion, sedentary
. , life, onanism, anger, 'intemperance tOith spiritUOtU liquidl, also from drinki"6'
, coffee, ~moking tobaceo, and taking C!Jld.-The greater part of the complaints are
·exacerbated by touching or moving, tlw.e which appeared inlilting, are reliewel
1 by ex~cile in the open air.-Particularly in tAe morning, immediately afterawak-
. ing, or after dinner, the complaint• ar.e exacerbated, likewise after mental ezertion
·. ~nd drinkintf coffee.- More suitable for brilk, aanguinic-clwleric, than for phleg-
.. ,..-matic, mild and good-natured temperaments.- Particularly suitable for the infan--
. ~tile age, likewise for the male 1ez, chiefly with a meager and •lender constitution
. ; and hmmorrhoidal dispolition.
General great irritation qf tAe emire nenou.r syltem, with exeulive sensitive-
·nelS ofeveryfeeling.-Agitation and congestion ofthe blood towardsthe head.-
.,. : . . .,.~- . .
.' ' ''i.J
---:::::::----=._..-~
... --- -- -. - -- ·-
Nux· vomica.
Gtwt ~ onl relafttion, IIIith Ae4nMen and tremor ofthe limbe, particularly
iniAe~~dafter walking in the open air. -Sudden prostration ofstrength.
-Tottering walk.- Slusgishnees and atlflf"lion to e~ with great iftclination
tq Ue tlovn&, and to sit.- EmGeiaticm and CIOf&ftmlption, perW:ularly tDith children.
- Very liable to take coU and shumaing tlae open oir.
Stinging and burning itching on the whole body, particularly in the evening,
when uncovering, or in the bed, also at nigbt.-Blueness of the sk.in.-Sorenesll!l
of the flkin of the whole body. -Itching·burning eruptions. - Miliary eruption
and nettle-rash. - Chilbloim.
Gre.at sleepinus in the daytime, particularly in the morning and qfter meal8.-
Coma in the daytime. - Sleeplessness and late sleep, frequently even towards
·morning, from accumulation of thoughts. -Late and refreshing slumber in the
morning, not before day-break.- Morning sleep with many depressing dream8.-
Great anxiety and restlessness in the limbs, at night.- Frightful startling in sleep,
~nd when fulling asleep. - Anxiom .drea4ful dream8.- Weeping; moaning and
talking fu sleep. - Dreams full of confusion and agitation, with a kind of coma
vigil, whereby the night seems too long. - Lying on the back in sleep, with the
banda stretched over the head, and a loud, snoring respiration.- Night-mare.-
Too early awaking, as eatly as 3 o'clock in the morning, with exacerbation of the
complaint.. - In the morning after awaking, much gaping, with convulsive
8tretching and turning. ·
Chill8, in the evening aad at night, slso after vexation, or after having been in
the open air.- Shaking chills, with painfulness of the skin, numbness of the
limbs and thirst; succeeded by heat and' perspiration.- Chills with, or without
uternal coldness, with chattering of the teeth, blue skin and blue nails, without
thirst; succeeded by heat with thirst, and with or without perspiration.after it.-
Chillinul or <"hill8, even with the least motion, slso in bed, during the heat and
&Weat.- During the chills, pain in the small of the back.-Wandering shivering
in the afternoon, when exercising, alternating with dushes of heat and relieved by
the warmth of a stove. - Alternation of chills and heat. - Heat on single parts,
with chills and shivering on the other parts of the body.- Morning-fever, with ~
little chills, but increased heat and thirst.- Fevers, with thirst during heat and
chill&- Fevers, with heat before the chills, or mixed with it.- During the fever
gaping, with stretching and turning of the limbs, various gutric complaints and
headache.-During the heat, giddiness, headache, redness of t~e face, vomiting
water, bile, slime and food, red urine and pain in the chest.- Fever during denti-
tion.- Intermittent, conrumptive, putrid, puerperal aml nervous fevers.- Tertian
fever•, slso after the misuse ofcinchona.- Profuse, also cold and stinking sweats,
frequently on one side.- Night- and morning-sweats, often sour smelling, with '
painf\dnesa of the parts, upon which one lies.
Sadn11111 and hypocbeodriac dejection. - Greut anxiety and rettlumess, par-
ticularly in the evening, frequently with palpitation of the heart and propensity to
suicide.- Anxious 1auitotion and dilconsolateness~ with redactions on death.-
Irresolution.- .Eaceuively irritated by nery impressiott.- Eaftlg friglu-d. -
Fref/tll wehemenc:e ancl if'IJICibtlity.- Moaning caprice, and. obstinate resistance.-
Gftat inclination &e ceuure IIDd reproach. - Mtiliciotis wicke~u and qutm'el-
Digitized by Coogle
Nux vomica. •
aommu1, even approaching to mlence. - Greet •luggill&fiUI and ~ to
labour.
Mental disllipation. - Miaapplying words and miswriting words and syUablea.
-Inability to expreee bim8elfproperly.-Erroneous notion&- Confused talking.
Muddled head, 88 after nocturnal debauchee.-Cloudinut qftlae head, 88 from
intoxication.-Dizzineee of the head, after dinner.- The Madfatigued by mental
'ezertitm.- Chronic giddiness.- Frequent attacb qfgiddineu ofdifferent kinds,
particuJarly in the morning, or after mealt, also in the evening in bed, mostly
turning, with intozication, staggering and obseuratioq ofsight (eootomia).
Headache, particularly in the morning, or after mealt, and iiicreued by stoop-
ing forwards and exercise. - Headache increased by wine, coffee and mental
exertion.- Attack• qf arthritic headache, Ulith qualmuhne" and sour vomits.-
Hemicrania, particularly after an excessive use ofcoffee.- Men thinking cloaely,
headache, as ifthe skull would burst.- Pressing heavinetl ofthe head, with giddi-
ness, particularly in the morning, or when moving the eyes.- Headache, at if
the brain were brui8ed. - _
Pressing or shooting headache, increased'in the open
air and from rising.-Headache, at ifa nail wereforced into the brain.-Tighten-
ing squeezing, or drawing rending, or shooting jerks in the bead.-Periodical pain
in the forehead, 88 from an ulcer, attended wi~ constipation. - Qmge•tion of
b.
lood ro the head, with buzzing,in it. - Vibration and shaking of the brain with
every step.
Painfulness ofthe exterior of the bead, jlanicuJarly when touched. - Soreness
of the scalp, when a high wind blows. - Painful, 'small tumefaction& on the fc!'e-
bead.
Itching in the eyes. - Preeeure in the eyes, when opening them and looking
at a light. - Noctumal rending in the eyes. - Burning, and biting in the eges,
88 from salt.-Itching buming and soreness of the canthi and edges of the lids, par-
ticularly when touched, and in the .momin~. - ~ suggilated conjunctiva. ;_
Inflammation ofthe eyes, ofdifferent kind., with 8Crophulolu, and arthritic'indivi-
duals, newbom infants, and after a cold. - Red, swollen eye-lids, agglutinated by
matter. - Suppurated canthi.- The lids glued together, at night, particularly
· towards Di.trDmg. - Blood-lpou in the eye-ball. -Running eyes. - Hemorrhage
from the eye•. - The eye-lids contracted, as from heaviness. - Glistering staring
eyes. - Transient blindness. - Presbyopia. - Glittering before the eyes, at a re-
mote distance. -Intolerance ofthe day-light, particularly in the morning.
Otalgia.- Painful sharp shocks and •titche• in the ear, particularly in the
moming in bed. -Rending in the ear. -Strong sounding ofall tunes in the ears.
- Tingling in the ears.
Intolerable itching in the nose. - Pain in the nostrils 88 ifthey were excori-
ated or ulcerated..- lnjlammation. of the interior qf the 11016, with a di8charge of
greenish stinking pus.- ~, particularly in the moming.- Smell in the
nose, 88 from sulphur, foul cheese or a smoking candle-snuff.
Pale, yellow, earth-colored, dalefol countenance, with a pointed nose, and blue
circles around the eyes. - Yellowilh hue arou!ld the 11016 and mouth. - Swollen,
red face. - Alternately paleneee and redness of the filee. - Glowing beat in the
ace.- Itching crawling iii the mce, aa from deals or ante.- Twitching ofthe
Digitized by Coogle
Nux vomica.
fiwial' muaelel, in the eYeoin«, after lying down.- Rendiag pcira in the facial
bonu, with swelliDg ofone halfof tbe &ee. - Pale ftDelliftg ofelM cltMlc.
Drynees of the tips. - Pain&l ~ of1M liP,.·- Corroding ulcen on the
angles of the mouth.- 8maD ulcers in the red part of the lips, with burning sting·
ing.- Herpes on the chin. - Distortion of the mouth.- 7Wimm.- Slinging
in the submaxillary gland8, when swallowing. .
TootlwJcAe, from a cold. - Arthritic and rheumatic tooth-ache•...:.. Tooth-ache,
ezcitetl or tncretJted by tM opet&air, by liMe and coffee.-Dull rending in the teetk,
and jaws, through the tiulial bones into the head, renetoed by drinking cold 1\quidl,
relieved by warmth.- Drawing boring and Bingle stitches in b~w teeth.- Borl-
ing, grubbing tooth-ache, ifiCf'etJtell by mental uertion. - Looleneu ofthe teeth.
- Putre~Mnt, blutling tumeftJCtion ofthe gum~.
Dryness of the mouth, without tbint. - Stench ofthe mouth, particularly in
the morning, after rising._- 8tomactJCe. - Inflammation of the cavity of the
mouth. - Injlammat.ory 110eUing of tke velum palati and the gum~, with difficult
swallowing and opening of the mouth. - Aphthte, with children. - The tongue
black, on the edges bright-red, and cracked. - Painful vel!ieles on the tongue and
palate. - Heaviness of the tongue, with difficult speech. - Bloody l!ftliva.
Sore throat, as if raw and excoriated, when drawing in cold air and when
swallowing.- 8enlation Mjrom a plug in the throat, chiefly felt without swallow-
ing. - lnjla1MIUJtion and ~U~eUing ofthe uvula, ~th stinging and pressure, when
swallowing or not.
Tastelessness of all food. - Bitter taste, particularly when ejecting saliva or
phlegm. - &Yur ttJtte, particularly in {he morning, or after iaking food or drink.
-Metallic, herby taste, also of beer. - Putrid tfUte, particularly in the morning.
-Smoky taste of bread. - Thirst, with loathing of water and ·beer.- Li«}uids
disturb the stomach and caWJe nau-.- Hunger, with aversion to food. - Buli-
mia, particularly after drinking beer. - Aversion to all food, particularly bread
and coffee, and to smoking tobacco.- Hypochondri&e indispofttion and fatigue,
diz2inees and cloudinel!s of the bead, sleepine111 and beat of the face with red
cheeks, after dinner.
Eructation, with the taste of what bas been eaten.-Bitter, putrid, aouf. eructa-
tion.-SJMV!Illodic eructation, with a pain, as if the resopbagus were contracted.-
Frequent, t~ehement hickupping, by which during meals the food is thrown out
again.
Nausea and t!Omiting, particularly in the morning and after dinner. -Water-
brash.- Empty 1/0mitttrition, particularly with drttnk6rda. -Tedious nausea in
the morning, with vomjting. - Periodical stttJCkll ofvomiting, immediately after
meals.- NaWJea and vomiting ofpregnant women.- Nocturnal vomiting of bile.
- Vomiti11g oftchat AM hem eaten, or of a 80111' smelling slime. - Htemt~temem•
.The atomaeh and ecrobioulU8 very tender to touch and preesure. - Diatenfton
and pre1111ure in the ltomtJCh and m-obicttlm; particularly after meals.-At\er every
draft, preesure in the ecrobiculus, with tightness of the chest.- Contracting,
grtUping cramp i" the ltomGCh, when fasting and after meals, partieularly with
coffee-drinker•. -Shooks ftoom the etomaeh to the ecrobieul1l8.- Chokin« and
fretting in the atomaeh. - Burning in the acrobiculus and on the pylorus. _;In·
dammation, induration and cancer of the stomach.
23
Digitized by Coogle
166 Nux vomica.
Contracting pain in the hypochoadree. - Tighme. and JWtllfWe bf tAe tlotU
about the hypoehondree. - ~, tighteaiug preuwe aod .tingittg in 1M
Mpatic region, increued by moving aod touching.- Acute and ehronie ~.
, , - &DeUittg mul ind~nmora ofthe liter, allo qfMr tlrialle ofciiiCAou.- Diaphrag•
matitis.- A.ffectitm qfthe kidney•.
Abdominal pains, from taking cold. - Belly·ache with pregnant women.-·
Periodical paint in tM abdomen, particularly in the '*"""ft8, after eating.- Pru-
ture ~ (rom. a lttme, chiefty in the ~atriUm and particularly after meals.-
Distention, tightnees and julftUI of the abdomen, allo after a small meal.;_ Great
heavinet'lll in the abdomen.- Drawing rending, eolic-like paiu in the abdomen.-
Hysterie abdomi1uJl cramp1.- Cutting paiDB in the abdomen, particularly in the
umbilical region, with eructation and inclination to vomit.- StagMtitm of the
blood in the abdomen, with heat and burning in it.- Great tendemess,of the ab-
domen to. extenial pressure and touching. - llmbilical, inguinal and femoral
hernia, allo facllrcerate. - Accumulated and obstructed ftatulency. - Flatulent
colic, with hard pressing pains.- Enteritil.
COI&Itipatitm, also with sucking infimts.- Tedious colft'llef&Ut.- CoDBtipation
of pregnant women. -Ineffectual efforts to stool, and lard, ~Yficult, frequently
blood.streaked evGCUGtion. - Putrid or watery diaf:rlwM, after taking cold, with
cutting and drawing in the abdomen and small of the back, down nito the thighs.
- Dytenteric diarrhma, with cu\Png in the umbilical region, urging and prearure
on the rectum, and ducharge of bloody •lime and fieces.- Pitch-like, bloody,
clotty evacuations.- Before and after evacuation, pressure in the rectum.-
During stools lumbrici and 118C8rides are discharged.- Painful, blind piles.
Retention ofthe urine.-Ineffectual urgency to urinate, with a small discharge,
with burning and rending. - Stranguria. - Nocturnal urging to urinate, at last
with escape of blood, and buming.- During and after micturition a viscous puru-
lent slime is' discharged from the bladder.- Uretrorrhagia.
Balanoblennorhma,. with a biting burning itching on the glaDB and pneputium.
- Excoristion of the pneputium. - Injlammatitm and1111eUintr ofthe testiclu with
a stinging, spasmodic, constringing &eD88tion, extending into the spermatic cords,
with hardness of the testicles, which are closely drawn up.- Hydrocele. - Easily
.excited, strontr sexuGl inclination, with many, sometimes painful erectionl and
teminal emiuionl.
Itching, fretting eruptioDB on the pudenda.- COntfettion of the blood toroards
the utenu, with a bearing down to tie genitals, and heaviness and buming heat in
them.- Inftammation of the uterus and labia pudendorum.- Varicea on the
pudenda.- Proloplul uteri et vaginte.
Menttruatitm too early and too long.-During llfeDStruation, abdominal crampt~
and headache.- Propensity to abortion.- Too vehement a.frer·pantfi.- Sup-
pressed lochia.- Metrorrhagia after' delivery.- Leucorrhala, with ~;~n off8D8ive,
yellow slime. __
·__
Obstruetion of the nose and gravedo, also with sucking infants. - Checked
cGttlrrh i• the evening, with .excessive dryn888 of the mouth, and defluxion from
the note in tie dagtime.-An acrid liquid l'llDDing from tLe DOle, with obstruction
ofthe D088.
Digitized by Google
Nux vomica.
C&tarrluJl Aotw1ent11, with 8C1'8ping in the pharynx, viscous slime in the Ia-
. rynx and cheat, an itching, tickling irritation to cough in the throat, and chilli-
neas.- Cmutringing cramp in the laryM.- Bronchlaf ioffiunmatioo.
Cough, \vhich originatee, JJr is increued by bodiZJte~ercile, reading or clou
'tAiUing.- Tickling oovgh, during the day eligldly kecking, increued in the
evening, leai or none at all during night, but the fll08t 116Mment in the morning.-
Fatiguing covgh, tDitA leadGcAe, at if the Mull tDOUld bur1t, or with a bruilring
pain in the epigaltrium, also at night, or in the evening after going to bed.- Dry
cough, aometimee with rattliog ofelime in the che&L - Continued cough, which
is dry in the after'fWOf&, e11ening and at night, but attended with expectoration.in
the morning.- Rough cough, with or after measles.- Dry cough with soreness
in the chest.- Sptmnodic cough, with vomiturition.-Hremoptysi&.
'l'ightnu1 ofthe chut, particularly in the evening, when lying down.- Fits
of mifocation qfter naidnight. - Aath~ Millari. - Anxious oppression of the
chest, at night, in the morning and after meals.- BptJ~m~ in thefhUI. from va-
poura of copper and araenie.- Oft'enaiv~ sour smelling breath. .
Prelltlf'e in the chut, atfrom a weight.- Straining in the cheat.- Comtric-
tion ofthe chut., particularly the lower parll, and chiefly when moving, walking
or aaeending a.height.- Rheumatic stinging in the cheat and ita aides. - Con-
gutihn ofthe blood tmixwdl the chut, with anxious agitation , .heat, and burning
in it.- PalpiUJtion ofthe heart. .
Paim in the back and lumbar regwn, as ifbeaten.- Pains in the small of the
beck, at night, which does not allow of turning in bed.- Drawing from the small
of the back into the shoulders.~ Burning rending in the back, also by paroxysma
in the evening.- Drawing heavineaa and atiflheea in the nape.
Rheumatic disabling pains in the shoulder and upper-arms, increased by mo-
tion. - Sudden weakneaa of the anna in the morning. - Paralylil of the arm;
with agitation and jerking in it, 88 if the bl~ would burst the veins.- Drawing
in the arm~, from the shoulder down into the fingers, with numbnel1 and immo-
bility of the arm, particularly at night. - The banda e88ily benumbed. - Hot
palma ofthe banda.- Cold banda.- Cool perlpiratihn of the handl, frequently
with a cold point qf the noee.- Crooking of the fingers, when gaping and cramp
in them, at midnight.- The finger-joint& easily knickli~. - Chilblaiaa on the
fingera.
Arthritic pain in the hip, with lancinating paim, tchen fTIJJIIiag. - Drawing
tmd 1tinging in the leg•, from the knee up to the groin, aggravated by moving
and touching.- Great heavinese of the lege.- Vacillutihn and in;ftrmity ~f the /
leg•, and the beu eMily gimg tltDdf• with tremulous weakoeaa. - Numlme11
and para'lyril ofthe leg• andfeet.- Colcbiese of the lege, particularly the thigb.a,
which can not be removed by the warmth of. the·bed. - Stiftb~ and straining in
the bend of the knee, 88 from contraction ofthe &endona, particularly when rising
from sitting.- SeDation of dryneea and knaeking in &be knee-joint, when mo•ed.
-White awelling ofthe thigh.-Bright-red ewelling ofthe leg, with black painful
spots.- Tenaioo in the calves, when walking.- Cramp in the cal1161 at nwht.-
The feet eaaily btnwnbed aud torpid.- Crooking of ·Uae to-.- Chilblains on
&he toea.
Digitized by Coogle
Oleander.
t 2.4. Oleander.
Predomitumt effem: A violent pre,.;ftg intiHJf'tl.. and crtlmfling pre•~UN, as if
the bones would be cJ'W!hed, in the limN and other parts of the body.- Great
wea.bae11 tmtlla11g110r, which almoet prevents walking.- Byncope.-Languor, aa
if life would beeome extinct. - Ptwalym. - Inclination to lltreteh and bend the
limbs.
Frettin~ itching, which compels one to I!CI'Btch, also when uncovering. -
Great tendernessofthe skin, which becomes red ahd galled even by a small friction.
Frequent gaping, with 1huddering and twitching of the muscles.- Lethargy
nnd prostration. - Sleepless and restletos at night.- DUturbing, w~ton dreGf116.
Frequently 8Udden paroxysms ofshivt'ring.- Sensation of heat, with general
chillinet111. - Flushes of heat, :particularly when cloee.at work.- Frequent,
full pulse.
Sadness and want ofself-confidence. - ·Averlion to labour and great sluggish-
ness.- Fretful, peevish humor, dilinclined to euery thing.- Intolerance of c~n­
tradiction.-Angry violence, immediately succeeded by repentance.
Weak memory. - Great mental dillipation, and inattention. - Unconseious-
ness. - Mental hebetude and diminished eapaciiJ. - Poetical fimtasies, with
respect to futurity.
Vertigo, with staggering of the legs.- Giddiness when rising from bed, or
when looking downwards, or standing in an erect posture. -GiddinOI!S, with turn-
ing, scotomia and scintillation.
Headache with obBtupefaction, as if the brain were strained.- Painful heavi-
nesB ofthe head, relieved by lying down:- Dull preswre in the head, particularly
in theforehead forwards.- Headache, as ifthe furehead would burst.-Painfully
pulsating throbbing in the head.-A boring sensation in the brain.
Outward pressure on the head.- Fretting itching on the Bcalp, with a l'!lllping
sensation after scratching.-Scaly, or also humUl tinea, with itching, particularly
at night, and burning after scratching.- Desquamation of the skin on the head.
Pain in the eyes, as from too great exertion in reading. - Pressure in the
eyes.- Burning and tension in the lids, particularly when reading.- Obscura-
tion ofthe eyes, when looking sidewards.
Sharp pressure in theear.-Spasmodic drawing on theear.-Singing, tingling,
an~ vibration in the ears.-Red, rough, herpetic skin upon the ear, with stench
and moistness behind it, and agglutination of the auricula to the head.
A dull, •tupefying pre1mre on the nose.- Itching about the nose.
Pale, 8Unken coustenance, with blue circles around the eyee.-Dull pre1wre
in thefacitJI bonu, particularly the zygomeUil boDes, extending deep into the head.
- Heat in the cheeks, without redness. Gl' rednesa without heaL- Rt!d swelling
of the 4ee about the eyes.- Eruptioll of IJID8Il pimples in the fae& and on th&
forehead.
Brown , parched lips. - Sensation of torpor and swelling in the upper-lip.-
Swelling on the angle ofthe mouth:--Twitching ofthe angle ofthe mouth.
Cutting pressing too(6-crcbe. Vllea ~ins".-Reuding and drawing in th&
o,gitized by Google
......
Oleandel-:. 269
, teeth, aJso,at night, only in bed, instantly disappearing when Nihg-; -..&neatio&
oflooseness of the teeth, with blueish.white gums.
DryneBB of the mouth, with a white furred tongue....... Rough; dirty white
tongue, with ereeied papillle.- Lon oftpeech. - Burning·in the pharynx.
All food tastes 88 ifvoid o( influence and insipid. - Insipid taste in the meuth.
-Canine appetite, with· tremor of the hands occasioned ~. longing fur fOOd, fte.
q~ntly with anorexia.:_.Thirst. Jl'fticu1arly for cold, fresh.water.- Dizalnei!B in
the head, while eagerly eating, at noon.
Eructation with- a putrid odour. - Vehement, empty eructation, also during
meals.
NatUet~, tDitA itaclination to 'D01nit and eoDeetion of wak!r in the mouth, I!Ue·
eeeded by strong hunger.- Vomiting of what has been eaten, or of a bitter,
yellowish_ green fluid.
Sensation ofemptiness in the stomach, with fulness in the abdomen. - Throb-
bing and pulsation in the pit of the sto';llach.
Griping in the belly, 88 if diarrhrea would commence.- Stinging and gnawing
in the abdomen. - Sensation ofemptiness and weakness in the bowels. - Rumb-
ling and rolling in the abdomen, with discharge of1111lCh putrid BmeUing tDind.
Ineffectual efforts to. stool.- 1'hin, •oft, yellow 8tool8.- Ail almost involuntary
di8charge ofundige•terl •tool. - Burning in the anus, before, after, and besides
stooL ~
Increased discharge of urine. '____
COncussive, short cough, from tickling in the larynx. - Viscid phlegm in the
trachea.
Oppression of the chest, whEm lying, with deep slow respiration. - Compres-
sing'sen."'ltion of heaviness, orsensation ofemptinessin the chest.-DUnor tighten·
iDg stitches in the chest, on the sternum and the ribs. - Dull drawing above the
heart, inc~ by stooping. - Strong, anziou palpittltion of the heart, with a
sensation ofenlargement ofthe chest.
Pain in the back, 88 from injury by lifting. - Tightening, burning and minute
stitches in the back. ·
Wrenching pain in the arms, when raising them. ..:... Twitching in the muscles:
of the arm. - 8pamwdic dratDing and rending in the upper-arm and the fingers.
-Dull prumre in thefore-arm•, handl IU\d fingers, 88 after a blow or bruise. - -
~nded veins on the hands.- Swelling and stlfthess ofthe fingers with a burn-
ing pain.
Wrenching pain in the buttock. - &mation oft~~eaknen, 88 ifbenumbed, in
the thighl and leg•. feet and soles of the feet. - Dull, prickling prenure in tAe
thiKhl. feet and toes. - Paralym of the leg• andfee~.- Spasmodic drawiug .in.
the legs and feet..- s).l881b in the calves. whea !ritting.
f 26. Oleum aniinale rethereum.
e-. A~ ftmfl; ~n.t.
~ e.fect~: ~ic drtlfl1ing in di1ferent p8rts. .-.. Drawing and·
rending in the limbe. - Formication in'dil'erent parts.- Straining itt lliagle Wilbs,
Digitized by Coogle
270 Oleum animale ~~ethereum.
• if the tendons were too abort. - Scifthe88 and tlilfJbling ~~~ it& th li..W.
with trembling laaaitude. - Faintiahne-. - Uncertain gait..
Much itching on the whole body, aod liugle apota·eC the BiD, aometimee biting
or burning. - Pinaplee, like the itch. - Galling in the bend•of the joints.
Great lleepiRU• in tAe daytime, tDitla muela gaping cmd .tretclVIg, particularly
after dinner. - Long sleep in the morning. - Late ~ in. tAe nming. - Fr&-
quent, early awaking, wilheu~ ability to fiill asleep again.- Very alight sleep, dis-
turbed by the least noise.
C4tu., •4ivering and coldae••· frequently altematiDg with heat on other parts,
·or with heat all over the body.- lncreaaed warmth of the body, particularly after
walking in tile open.air. -Dry beat in the evening. - Flushes ofheat, frequently
with Perspiration on the head, breast and banda. - Transient peroxy81D8 ofper- .
spiration, particularly while eating.
Sadneu, 18118rvedneaa, joyleeenesa.
Diasipation of thoughts and frequent. unconaciowmeea..- Vanilhing ohbouca&&
Dizzineas, like stupefaction. -Reeling and giddiness when stooping•.
Headache on one lide, as if torpid and palsied. - · Squuzing und pre•wre in
the he4d, particularly the for.ehead, ev€'.n with the least. mental exertion. - Draw-
ing and rending in the head, as after a cold. - Violent boring and lancinatiilgJn
the head, particularly so immediately above the eyes. - Congestion of tile bleod
towards the head, with heat and throbbing in it.
Rending extemally on the head, .with tightness and soreness. - Itching and
~;tinging burning in the scalp.
Pain in the eye, as from a grain ofsand. - Pressing and drawing in the eye-
baHs.- Itching, biting and stinging in the eye•, disappearing by rubbing. - Burn·
ing in the eyes, particularly in the evening, with candle-light. - RtiJUling of the
eyes, and agglutiDauon of the lids at night. - Quivering atul t111itching in the lid•
and eye-brows.- Dimlfightedne••·- Myopia.- Dark clouds before the eyes.
Piercing-pain in the.ear.- Boring and rending in the ears.- Stinging, ting-
ling and buzzing in the ears, increased by noise.
Itching tickling and prickling in tlie nose. - Soreness of the interior of the
nose. - Moist, burning pimples on the septum of the nose.
Pale, earth-colored countenance. - Formication in the fuee. - Burning in the
cheeks and on the zygomatic bones.- Disabling, ~it ter&rion atui·drtnDing
in theface, frequently only on one side. - Cracked lips. - Twitching in the lips,
in the morning in sleep. - 8pMm in the lb!Derjaw, which abnOIIlt prevents open·
ing the mouth.
DrtJuring or rending tooth-ache, frequently proceeding from the ear. - Jerking-
rending throbbing in the root ofa hollow tooth, with.~~ensation o(coldness in the
points of the teeth.
Dryne. of the moutll,.. in. the morning, when awakin«; - Much VJhite Nliira
in the moutA. -Biting and burning·on the tongue.
Pain in the throat, as from a bard substaDoe in.the phuynx, particularly whea
swallowioc.- Choking, constriction, dryne~~ CIJid t~Craptng in tAe tl&roat. - Buna.-
ing in the pharynx. - Much viscid phkgm in tf&e throat.
Digitized by Coogle
~~~~~~~-------
Oleum animale zthereum.
Fatty ud inlipid taeae. - &ur tGite m t1ae mouti. - Anorexia. - A~erlion tor
1Mtlt, and an food, except bread. •
Eruc&ation, with the taste of what bas beell eaten, or with an urine-like taste.
-Vacant and burning eructation.
NIIUiec tmd inclir._iiora to 110mit, panicuJarly during and after meals, sometimes
with pre88lll'8 on·the·cbeet.
The stomach very tender to external preeeu're. - Pre1111re in the 1tomoch tmd
tie 1Cr0bicult11, aliO after drinking frNh water. - CoD.Btriction of the stomach. -
Senaation in the stomach, as ifthere were something turning about. - Senaation
as ifbruised in the region of the etomach.- Sensation of coldn~ or buming:in
the stomach. ··
Dull piercifl{f and prelsing in the region of the liver tmd lpleen.
Full, distended abdomen, with painfulnees by every movement of the body.-
Squeezing pain on several small spots in the abdomen. - Griping in the abdomen,
particuJarly after eating or drinking something warm. - Outtifl{f belly·ocla•, per-
ticuJarly about the navel, also attended fDith diMrhaa. - Contractins pain in the
abdomen, into the etomach attended with qualmishnea - GrubbiDgo ad cutting
in the epigastrium and hypogastrium. - Drawing in the inguinal region;.eztend-
ing into the testicles. - Much flatulency, with rolling and rumbling in the abdo-
men. - Frequent discharge offretid wind.
Constipation. - Hard, IIJdf"ifl(f, djfficUlt 1tool, discharged only with great exer-
tiod.- Frequent soft stools. - DiGrrhaa, fDith griping in the bou;ell, befofe,
during, and after evacuation. - After stools, soren8118 in the abdomen, or burning
and pressing in the anU&
Frequent urgency to urinate, with a painful and small dillcll.arge. --Pressure
upon the bladder. - Thin stream of urine. - lncreMed, pale urine, soon deposit-
ing a ctoud. - Greenish urine. - The urine becoming turbid; and' depositing a
elayey sediment. - Burning sensation while urinating.
Drawing and stingiDg in the penis. - Drawing pain io the testicles. - The
testicles swollen and drawn up, with painfulness to the touch. - Erections and
seminal emissions, at night.
Mm~e1 too eorly,.with~ muJll dilcluzrge ofblack blood; aUended with cutting
in the abdomen and small of the back, shooting headaclie, and weakness in the
hands and feet. - Leuconhrea ofa thin pellucid mucoua.
Sneezing with a painful pressing asunder and soreness in the chest.- Dryness
o£ the ROlle. - Coryza, with a thick nasal slime~ which excites a painful tenai6a
in. then~- Vehement gravedo.
Hoarsenesa, and roughness in tJte throat. - Bpcumodic contrGCtiot& of the
trCIClaea, particuJarly at night.
Dry cough, mostly with single shocks, excited by tick1iilg in.the throat.
~ion qf lhe breat, wheD.lying on the back, with a 118D.I8tion, ., iftA&
~were ctm1fW611ed,.diaappearing only,,when the posture iuhanged.-Op..
preseion-of&be cheet, w.hen.ascend.in!;an emiaellce,. oecuioned by inflation ofthe
. abdomen.
Pain .. i(beateR in the breaa&.-Pr.-llfl8oand.laueiilaq in the chest.-eu....
tiog through the ebeet.- Anxious apaaoa in. the cbeet, wi&h. a ~- ~
Digitized by Coogle
m Oleum animale ~theremn.- Ouiscus asellus.- Opium.
UH~nftth cad ~ ita it, add rising of heat tiom the ahdomea•.-..~ and
squeezing about the heant
The lHd 11M -.pe pairifvll'J ati.ffand tenn. - PaiD in the aall ofthe backp
as ifwrenched, chiefly when stooping and Bitting.
, lJrmDitag 11M retuling in t1ae ann~, 1uJtuU and jingerr. - LaneinMiug in the
arms and hands. - Creeping in the fingers. - Torpor oflingle fingerfl.
Cramping and t~ in the t~ha and 6eUa oftle kMu, as if&he tiJDdons
were contracted. - DrtJVrirrg and rending ita tie thiglu cmd ~. f~t cmd lflu. -
Stinging in the knee and the feet. - Formica'tiob in the lep. - 6rult 1Ha.me..
ofthe lega- Stiftbe1111 ofthe 1ep, •htm walking.
126. Oniseus asellus.
W_.-l-o.-0.... Jlcllw..d.
Frequent gaping, with inclination to lie down and stretch the limbs. - (Epilep--
tic convulsions.)
Dn1l heavine1111 of the head. - Painful preMIUle above tlae root of the llOI!Ie.
Boring behind the right ear, with an increased pullllation of the ll'teries.
Cramp behind on the palate, as ifit were being cloeecl.
Nausea with tedious pressure on the pylorus..
Sudden urgency to eTaeUate, with a thin quick diacharp.- Buraing paiD on
the anlis.
Many erectione, with aversion to labour.
Hawkini up blood-streaked phlegm.
121. Opium;
P•p-~ •-1'"'•· - 'W71it• ,..,., (tAo i•iu); .....,.nr-,- ..... Ifloi••.P;.
Duration ofeffect: a few hours.
Antidotea: (in cases of poisoning) co.ffea- to11ti'll, camphora, avena, ipecacuanha;.:
for too strong effects of potenees, hydrargyrum, ipeoacuanh&
Userl tJB an 'antidotll./CYr: camphors, crocus, digitalis, hydtargyrum, plumbum,
secale.
It ann7ers well after: stramonium.
After it IU&IJDer'll' weU:. bryenia.
PrerlemiMn.t effect•: General inlenribility ofthe Ull!ole nmHnU agwtmt,. rib in·
eapaeity to react against the medici!le8 given. - Great rel!tleameM in the limbe. -
DiaetJBtt8' of dnmltarrh.- Complaint• f!f tlte 3enile age. - Tremor mthe whole
body. with;'erki81f and twitching in the limbs. attended witfl genetafeoldlml!.-
Con~ •ntl ~ptJ~tu, BOmetimes epileptiea. with deHria. - Tetmnu.- ~
tlwratu;- ApopfeD. - Ptwalym. - Ba4 comequtmce.r of.fright wid!' hr. -
P~ 'With lead.- SYJHlOile and' great ltmguor. - General ~­
Droptic«<ltilelling ofthe tt~ltole body.
mueish coler of the sliD~ with blue spots. - Continual itelililg on t!Wt&kilt,
With 8ID8It. 10und, eolorl-. elev•tions. - Desquamation af the epidei'IDiB. - Chilo
.......
Digitized by,Google
........-----
Opium. • 273
, '
JAtluwgill, wit! 11 ~ ~ the mouth open, and the eyes dietorted
and widely opened.- Sleep with portiGl COMcioumeu, without ability &o roWJe.-
A.uioue aleep with anxious dreama. - Sleepleltmeel, with ap anxious jactitation,
reetlellmeee and deliriWil.--: Carphologia, and grasping abo'IU in ~·- Moa$g
in eleep.-Startling jerks in the limbe, during elumber.-Nigh~.- Wantcm
dream~.
General e~ colthreN of tAe •IM. particularly on the limbe. - Burning
heiJt ofthe body, with a violent n:eat in the face, anxiety, delirium and reetl8881le&
- TAe pulle mostly full, llorD and in&ermittent, or quick and hard.- Putrid
fevers. - Nenoo~ fever•, a1llo tlitk'uncomcioume11 or with deliria.
Indolence, 10r great anxiousne88 and restle88Deee.- Inconetancy and ficklenea
- Etllily frigltteaed and fearfuL - Fiercel,le&l and temerity. - Mental tranquil-
lity, with charming fantasies and oblivion ofall grievances.
&wpidity and imbecility.- lTnconloiollmeu.-Abundance ofideas, with gaiety
and inclination to sublime and profound refiections. - Illullione of fantuy. -
Mania a potu. - Deliria.
Dizzineee in the head, with a sensation of heat in the eyes and inclination to
close them. - Cloudine11 of the hetlil, 111 after into~catioa. - DrawY1tupor. -
~ine.1, when sitting up in bed, which compels one to lie down. - Giddineee,
after a fright.
Headlwhe, ·like a prefJeing tension in the head.- A sensation 88 ifthe brain
were dilacerated. - Gr611t Aemne11 of the head. - Omge•tion ofblootl tOI.IHJf'CU
the head, with a strong pulaation in it.
The eye-lids hanging down, 88 if maimed. - A eenaation u if the eyes were
enlarged. - Red, irtfiMMd eyu. - Tremor of the eyes and lids. - Gluey, prO-
-truded, diltorte4, 1taring, partially opened eye•. -Immoveable, dilcted pupill.-
Oblcurtltilm oftAe eyu. - Scintillation before the eyes.
Buzzing or tingling in the·eere.
Pale, earth-colored, lunken countenance, with sunken eyes and red spots on the
cheeks.- Dark~t, frequently brownish, hot and bloated countetwnee. - Alterna-
tion of redneee and paleneee of the face. - Distended veins in the face and an the
head. - RelaziJtion and .flaccidity ofall the faciGl muclu. - Tremor, twitching
and convulsive motion~ of the facial muscles.
Swollen lip& - The lips and lower jaw flabby and hanging down. - Tulitch-
ing ~/the angle• oft!e meuth.- Distortion of the mouth. - 'l'ri8mu.
Looeeneee of the teeth.
Dryneee of the mouth attended with great thirtJt.- Strong 1alivation.-H~emo­
ptyeie. - Uleere in the mouth and on the tongue. - Black tongue. - Paralym
ofthe tongue.- Weak, subdued speech, with incapacity to talk loudly, except
with great exertion.
Dryneee in the throat. - A distending and wringing sensation in the throat,
with diffioulty of swallowing, by fits which recur every day. - lncapiJcity to
ftDallorD. .
Ageusia. ....;. Bitter or sour taste in the mouth. - Great, veMnlent thirlt, par-
ticularly for beer.- Attacks of bulimia, with anorexia and loathing ofallfool.-
Slow, weak dipMioo. .·
Nauae&, with ~lination and ineft'eetual efforts t.o 'Yomi~ - Vomiting, VJitA
Digitized by Coogle
Opium.- Peonia.
whement painr in the 1tomacl&, mad CO!mllrionl. - Green and bloody vomit& -
Biac pGftion.
The sto~aeh and acrobiculoe painfuJly diitended. - CoMtricting preeeure in
the stomach, with great anxiety.- llefmr&UI ia tM ltorucl. - Com~n of
the diaphragm. '
Hardneu and dietention of the abdomen. - 7ymptmitu. - Pressing Auftneu
in tAe abdomen, 811 from a wei«ht.- ColictJ 1atvnraU.. (leed~lie). - lnetl'l'«f'ate4
iltguinal Mrnia.
Conltipation, tometime• long continued, al8o witlt suekin~ in,fanta. - Black.
fetid 1tool1.- Fluid, frothy diarrhCI'Ia, with burning on the anus aDd violtont teneee
mue. - lnvolunttlry ttooU.
Retentitm ofurine, as from a colllltrietion ofthe bladder.-..Sparing, dark urine
with a lateritious sediment. - Hematuria.
lneret~~ed •uual tluire, with many erection~ and mninal ~.- AmoPoU&
eeataay.- Diminished Bexual desire and impotence.
&si¥u•etl, or f&Jse, tpam~odic throu.
Obstrnetion of the noee, reeembling gravedo.
Ezculive lwarwna1, 811 from phlegm in the trachea, with a very dry mouth
and a white t9ngue.
Vehement, hoUow, dry cough, exacerbated after meaJs.- Cough, \Then swal-
lowing or breathing, with imerruption of the breath and bluenees of the &ce. -
Cough, toith a thick, frothy eqectoration ofphlegm and blood.
Difficult stertorous and rattling respiration. - Slow, interrupted breathing. - .
Tightneu oftM che1t tmd i11terruption ofbreatlt, .ntll great tznziety. - Spaamodie
tightnees ofthe chest. - ParozynM ofmjfOC4tion, when trying to cough.
Pressure in ·the chest, with stitches in the side, when breathing. - Tension
and eo111triction of tAe chut. - Heat and burning in the chest, particularly the
region of the heart. ·
OpilthotomJI. - Distention of the veiOa and pulsation of the arteries on the
throat.
Jerking and eonwllive motion~ ofthe arm~.- Paralysis of the arms.- 2remor
ofthe tlf'f1l8 and handl. - Chilblains on the fingers.
Jerling tmtl conwllive motiofu ofthe leg1.- Weakness, torpor, and paralysis
ofthe legs. - Heaviness. and ~ema of the feet. - Chilblains oo the toes.
i 28. Preonia.
BurninA' heat in the face, on the beck and the hreaat, attended with cold limbs..
Preesing pain in the left side of the head, after meals. - Boring and a jeJ'kin&-
rending in the temples.- Stinging headache.
Itching and stinging in the eye-lid.
Twitching in the cartilage of the·ear, and priekinr behind the ears.
Creeping in the upper-lip.
==--
DigitizedbyGoogle ·
...........
P:eonia.- Paris• 276
.luiou .,_...ei~a t1ae pit of t1ae ltolniiCl&. - PiDchiDg pain in the abdominal
llll118Ciel.
Papeiiii8Dt ciiarrhala with ftabbine. in the abdomen, .uoceeded by blll'Din« in
the aoWL- A fetid moist ulcer on &be auus towarde the perineum.
Creeping in the point of the 11011e.
Throbbing through the (right aide of the) cavity oCthe che8&, extending to the
aape.- A preeeure near the atemum, during meals.- &itcl&u in the chut, a. if
tlrougl tAe heGrt.- Sharp 8&itches in the axillAe. ,
Pinching pains in the back.-Stingillg in the 'llackt di8appearing by I!Cl8tchiog.
Spum in the wrist. -Crawling in &he (fo~) anD, as from aomething alive.-
SUDging and tingling in the fingers.
Spum in the joint of the knee, when sitting. - Shocks in the knee, from in·
side outwards. - Thick, crooked tau, with burning itching and jerking cutting
pain&
129. Paris.
Antidote•: Cotrea, (aconitum!)
PredomiJUJat effect•: Continued 1titche1 in all the limb1.- Spasmodic draUJing
in the jointl, or a sensation in them as if they were broken, swollen or sprained,
when monng or turning them.- Hea'Dinu• in the wlwle body.
Strong itching here and there.- Formication under the skin, without itching.
- Soreneea of the skin to the touch.
Great sleepinesa in the daytime and early in the evening.- Restleea, imff.
rupted 1lumber at night, with continual jactitation lUld many dreaJM.-Voluptuous
dre&ID8, with erections and semioal emillsions.
Chillioeea, particularly on the breast, abdomen and leis, with goose-skin and
gaping. - Continual internal frigor, UJi.th inrDard tret1Wf'. - Itching morning-
ltDeat, with a necesaity to scratch.
Inclination, to treat others with rudeResa and contempt.- Childiila behiitnour;
pleased by his own talking. - Loquocity. - Disinclination to mental labour. -
Fretful dissatisfuction.
'Dizzineea and dullneea of the head.- Giddiness, when reading loudly, with a
(fifficulty of speech and sight.
Headache, increa.ed bg clo1e thinking.- Preuing pain in the head, disappear-
ing when presaing the hand upon it.- Sensation of distention in the head, with
forward preii81U'e in the temples and eyes. - Tension in the brain and integu-
ments of the forehead. - Piercing and lingle •titchu in the head. - Clucking
beadache, at night, accompanied by great reatJesanes&- Throbbing, ftuctuating
headache, when ascending steps. ·
Sensation ofaoreneea .extemally on the os bregmatis, when touching it.-The
hair falling otl', with pai1Uulnesa of the scalp.
o,9itized by Google
i76 Paris.
Pain in the eyes, like a preuure in the orbital beaee. - A ~ a if tlae
eyu tDerfl enlarged afttl I1DOllen. - Burning and running qf the eyu, panieuJarly
in the morniDg, after rising. -Twite~ and quivering of the upper eye·luhes.
- Umteady rig11t and wa•erin! before the eyes.
Rending otalgia.- Diminillhed hearing.- Tingling in the ears.
A eeDflation 88 if the nose were full in its upper·part, with diacbarge ofblood,
when blowing the noee.- Putrid emell ofmilk and bread. ·
Hot, stinging pain in the zygomatic bcme. - Suppurating pimplee under Cbe
nose and on the chin.- Bleeding pimpler, like millet-seed, on the lower muilla.
- E1Boreecenoe on the forehead, with a pl'el!!8ing pain, when touched.
Cracked lipe. - Herpes about the mouth.
Drawing, or drawing-throbbing tooth-ache, partieularly in hollow teeth, in-
.creased by drinking cold liquids. - Cutting pain in the gums, every morning.-
Shrivelled gom11, 88 ifthey were burnt.
Dry, parched mouth, inthe morning when awaking.- Collection ofastringent
saliva in the mouth. - White-slimy froth in the angles of the mouth, in the morn-
ing. - Sensation of soreness in the palate and its akin ecaling off. - Hard swel-
ling on the fore-part of the palate, of the size ofan egg. -The tongue rough, dry,
and 88 ifenlarged.
Pain in the throat, 88 from a pressing ball in the ph~- Stinging, scraping
and burning in the throat.
Slimy and insipid taste. - Strong appetite.- NalJtleOus or preeeing eructation.
-Watery regurgitation.- Qualmiahne~~~~, with a sour taste.-Weak, slow diges-
tion. - After mealll, always hickupping.
Prumre in tlte st01114Ch, 88 from a stone.-Bumin@", from the stomach extend-
ing intO the abdomen.
Abdominal painll, like a tension through the wlfole abdomen. - Hartl prunre
in the abdomen.- Cutting drawing, and boring in one aide of the abdomen, when
lying on it, in the evening in bed.
Frequent evacuations,-but insufficient and papeecent.-Ftllid purpg •tool.,
·smelling.like putrid flesh.
DiminutiQn of urine. - Frequent urging to urinate, toitA burning, iDhen fHU'"
sing water. - Fiery urine, with clouds in its centre, a reddiah eediment, and a
variegated cuticle, when standing for some while.-~ aud stinging in the
urethra.
Increased sexual passion.- Menstruation too early.
Obstruction of the noee, in the morning, and blowing out a thick, bloody
mucus. - Gravetlo, alternating with defluxion from the noee. - Discharge ofa
thin mucus from the noee and eyes, which caU!eS an asthmatic affection. ·- Red
and greenish nasal mucWJ.
The. trachea feels 88 if desiccated. - Violent ~~ and low voice toitA a
continual hawking up phlegm. - Burning in the larynx.
Cough 88 from vapoul'll ofI!Uiphur in the trachea, or as &om vilileid phlegm in
the larynx.- Night-cough, when lying on the left aide. - Cough with expectora•
UOD Ofa Yillcld greenish phlegm ftom the Jarynx,,
Oppreeeive respiration, with incliDation to breathe deep.
Digitized by Google
Paris.- Petroleum.
Pre8sure in the right aide of the chest. - Piercing in the chest and its llides•..;..
PtJlpitation ofthe heart, when at rest and in motion. . .
Pain in the back and nape, as if'a heavy weight Jay upon it, when stooping.-
.Pricki~g and piercing in the back, and between, and in the shoulder-blades. -
Tension and weakness in the muscles ofthe throat and nape.
Disabling heaviness and '!eakness in the joints of the arms and fingers. -
Drawing and rending in the arms, from the shoulder into the fingers.- Tremor
of the bands.- Pricking in the fingers.- Alternating heat and coldness, and
deadness of the fingers.- Numbness of the fingers.
Rending and drawing in the legs, particularly the.hip-joint.- Disabling pain
in the foot-joints.- Formication in the heeL- Rending, twitching and priekinp;
in the toes.
130. Petroleum.
Duration of~eet: about 150 days.
Antidote.: aconitum, nux vomica.
It 4m~U~ers aoeU after: Nitric acid (when deathess succeeds the application of
. ~hia remedy), phosphorus.
Predominant effects: Drawing pains in all the limbs. - The limbs torpid and
soon"benumbed.- Knacking and jarring of the joints, with an arthritic stiffness
and drawing rending pains.- Rhachitis.- Swelling and induration of the glands,
also after a contusion. - Twitching of the limbs, in .the daytime and at night.-
Epileptic fits. - Weakness, qualmishness and other dilorders from riding in a
carriage.- Sea-sickness.- Consequences of anger. -Many complaints arise or
are axaeerbated during a thunder-storm.- Flushes of heat, agitation of the blood
.and perSpiration, after a walk or a little irritation. - Atrophy, also ofchildren. -
General unpleasant sensation of illness, with tremor and weakness. - Heaviness
and sluggishness in the limbs. - Great aoeakness in the morning and evening. -
Easily taking cold.-Aversion to the open air, and chilliness when exposed to it.
Great tenderness of the skin.- Nettle-rash.- Itching tetter.- Itching, 10re,
humid spots on the skin. - Brown and yellow spots on the skin. - Rhagades.-
The skin dijficult to ketJl. - Furuncle& - Ulcers, with stinging pains. - Proud
flesh in the ulcers.-Warts.- Corns. - Chilblains, also painfuL
Sleepiness in the day and evening, when sitting stilL- Delirious niglu-slum·
ber; with many vivid, or anxious and dreadful dreams, frequently awaking or
startling, and 'anxious heat.- Unrifresked jn the morning.
Chills, with headache and coldness of the hands and fuce. '- Shaking chills Or-
coldness, mostly in the evening, and sometimes attended with blue nails.- Im-
mediately after the chills, perspiration,- Intermittent fever in the evening, with
heat in the face and cold fuet, after the chills.-Frequent flushes of heat.-FeTer
with a full pulse and burning in the skin.- Heat at night.- Night-sweat.
Anxiety and liability to be easily frightened. -:- Great irresolution. - Hypo-
ehondriac humor.- Excited, choleric mind, IDith inclination to insult. ·
Defective memory.-Indisposed to think.-Weaknese ofthoughts.
24
..
Digitized by Coogle
278 Petroleum.·
.'
Dizzinese in the head.- C1roaic gidi.iaeu.- ~... Iii«- a alreag·Suctua·
tion.- Giddineu, when •tooping, or rillillg up.
Auaeks ofhemicrvna.- H~ occ.no..d by arww, or in the morning
uting, 01' in the evening after walking.- Hemicrania with oecesaity to lie do'Wil.
- Heavinese and fulness in the head, in the morning, particularly whe~ stoop-
ing........ Pre•ring and preui'Rif-•tmgmg pam. in the head, Jl811icularly in the
occiput.
A tightening eensation in the head, 88 iffrom a tension·ofthe dura mater.-
Spumodically drawing, pinching headache. - Throbbing headoche, particularly
in the oociput.-A sensation, 88 ifthe whole head were alive.
Painfulness ofthe scalp when touched, 88 if bruised and festering. - Drawing _
in the head, the forehead, and temples down to the teeth.- Eruption on.the head
and nape. - Soft tumors, and scabs on the scalp.-The hair fulling off.
' Itching in the eyes. - Pressing, biting, pricking and burning in the eyes.-
Inflammation of the eyes. - Fistula lachrymalis. - Running of the eyes. -
Twitching and quivering ofthe eyes and lids. - Distortion ofthe eyes.- Myopia.
...... Presbyopia....... Diplopia.- Gllinmering, like gauze before the eye&
Squeezing and jerking otalgia.- Dryness and unpleuant sensation of dryness
' in the interior ear.- Blood and pu ~barged from the ear.- Eruption on the
ears.- Redness, soreness, and moisture behind the ears....... Dyset:ui4 (particularly
after previous application of nitric acid).- Tingling, buzzing, roaring in the ears.
Epistaxis....... Pimples on the nose.- Ulcerated nostrils.
Heat in the face, alao after meals, sometimes with thirst.- Pale, yellowiBh
countenance.- Eruption of pimples in the face.
Scurfy pimples with a pricking pain, ou the lips and angles of the mouth.......
Swelling ofthe submaxillary glands.- The maxillary joint easily dislocated, with
violent pains, in the morning in beet:
Tooth-ache, when exposed to fresh air, particularly at night, with swelling of
the cheeks.- A sensation ofdulness in the teeth; with pain, when pressing them
together....... A suppurating pustule on the gums. Hke a fistula....... Swelling or'the
gums, with astinging burning, when touched.
Stench of the moutl', as after garlic.- Ulcera on the inside of the cheek. ......
Much phlegm in the mouth and throat.- White furred tongue....... Great dryness
of the mouth, with much thirst.
Stinging pain in the throat, when swallowing....... Swelling and great dryne•s
of the interior throat.- Liquids, taken into the niouth, pass into the choana na-
rium.- Phlegm is hawked up, in the morning.
Taste putrid, insipid, slimy, bitter or sour.- Great thirst for beer.-Bulimia.
...... Greedine$8. - An_orexia.- Loathing of meat and fat, also of warm, cooked
fOod....... Indigestion, after almost every thing, even the smallest. - After meals,
cloudiness and giddiness.·
Loud eructation.- Sour eructation, and regurgitation.-Heart-burn.
Qualmishness, without vomiting.- Qualmishness from riding in a carriage•
...... Water-brash.- Inclination to vomit.- Qualmishness and ·vomiting ofpregnanl ·
women.- Green, bit.terish vomits.
Pre1mre in the stomach.- Cramp in the stomach.- Sensation of emptiness
and weakness in the stomach....... A pain in the pit of the stomach, as if there
Digitized by Coogle
Petroleum. 219
eomething would break oft -Swelling of the pit of the stoma~h, painful to the
touch.
'Abdominal pain, soon after meals.-Confusion in the abdomen. -Inflation and
tension ofthe abdomen, with craDlJII!I. - Pinching and cuttiftg S. the abdomen. -
Rolling.in the abilomen.- Inguinal hernia.- Fcetid wind dilcharged.
Stool d!fficult, hard, knotty and insufficient. - Frequmt 1tool6 during the day.
- Dit.wrlusa, preceded by pain in the bowels. - Bloody, .Umy nooh. ~ Diarrhma
of pregnant women.- Tape-worm discharged.- Burning in the rectum, after
evacnation.- Itching tetter on the perimeum.
Frequent micturition, with a small discharge of red, brown, fmtid urine.-
lnvoluntarily dropping urine.-P.asaing water at night.- Stricture ofthe urethra.
- Burning in the urethra. ,
On the 1erotum and near it on ~he thigh, itching redne88, •orenes• and moilt·
nuB, or itChing pimples B:Jld tetter.- Dimini8hed sexual desire. - Frequent invo-
luntary seminal emissions. - Pr08tatic fluid escaping. - Weaknees and nervous
irritation, after coition.
Itching, sorenea8, and tetter near the pudenda.- Disinclination to coition, in
women. - Memtruation too early, with itching, occasioned by the blood.- The
6rst menaes breaking forth with great difficulty.- Albuminous Ieucorrhma.
Obl!ltruction of the 1101!18.- Drynesa and troublesome sensation of dryness in
the nose.- Coryza with lwar•ene.•.
Cough, occasioned by drynesa in the throat.- Dry cough, coming deep from
the chest, at night, or in the evening, after lying down.
Oppreuion of the breath, caUIIed by cold air.- Rattling and snoring in the
trachea.
Oppression of the chest, at night.- Stitches in the Bide of the chest.- Herpet!l
on the breast.- Palpitation of the heart.
Pain in the ~mall of the back, which prevents standing. - Pain in the back,
forbidding every movement.-Weakness and torpor in the beck and sacral region.
-Herpes on t~e nape. -Glandular ewelling in the nape....... Suppurating axillary
glands. · ·
Drawing pain in the arms and fingers. - Great weaknesa of the arms.....;.. Tor·
por-of the arms and fingers. - Erysipelatous inflammation on the arm.-Yellow
spots on the arm.- Furuncles on the fore-erm.- Rending in the hands.-Burn-
ing in the palm of the hand.- Perspiration of the hands. - Brown spots on the
wrist.- Bloody crackl on the handl andfinger•, in winter.-Chilblains and warts
on the fingere.
Knaeking in the jointM of the legs.- Spasm in the thighs, calves and soles.-
Furuneles on the thighs and legs. -Tension·and straining in the bend ofthe knee.
- 8titchu in ·the knee.- Weakne88 ofthe knee.- Herpes on the knee.- Itching
eruption of pimples on the cal£ - Herpetic eruption on the ankle of the foot.-
Bu~ of the soles. -Cold feet.- Swelling of the feet.- Hot ewelHng of the
110les.- Swelling and redness of the heel, with burning and etinglng, exacerbated
when walking.- Chilblains on the toes.
•
Digitized by Coogle
Petroselinum.- Phellandriiun.
f3t. Petrose1inum.
Late sleep, aDd then Bleep, run ofanxious dream&
Intense siuging in the ears.
Clay-like, whitish stools.
Frequerat, alfMit iflejfeetualvrging to urifltJte, every halfan hour.-~.
~~tinging preuvre, ad draVJing in the uretAra.- Gonorriala uretlrce.
Involuntary seminal emieeione.
Twi&ehing in the dorsal aDd brachial RW8Ciee.
f 32. Phellandrium.
Predominant effect.: Rending pains in the limbe.- A tremulous 8ell88tion in
aU the veeeele of the body.- The greatest part of the complaints arise when Bi'-
ting, &tending and lying, and disappear in the open air.- Great relaxatien and
wearineee.
Itching, sometimes burning or biting, which soon dieappeara after scratching.
-SmaU, blue spots, like petechia.
Sleepinese in the daytime, with frequent gaping.-Late eleep.-Frequent and
early awaking, or long Bleep in the morning.
Prevailing ehilline88, also shaking chills, mostly .neither preceded nor suc-
ceeded by heat or thirst. - Shivering, towards evening, as if cold water were
poured ovet" the body.- Accelerated pulee.
Sad.• deeply redeeting mind, or sometimes excessive merriment.- IDBOlent
petulance.
Cloudine88 ofilie head, like intoxication.- Heallituu ofthe head, as ifit were
too full and enlarged.- GiddineBI, with danger offalling, tDOrle in the open air,
relieved when lying down.
. Headache, which dieappeara during dinner and in the open air.- Compressing
pain in the sides of the head.-Agitating headache.-Congestion of blood towards
the head, with heat and throbbing in it.
Itching in the eyu. - Burning of the lida, in the morning and evening. - '
Quivering of the lids, which are readily closed by a heavine88 in them, and sleepi-
n~- Dryness of the eyes, with stinging and burning in them•.....;. Running eyes,
particularly in the open air.- Cloudy dimeightednese, particularly when lookint
intently.
Rending and boring in the ears.
Red, burning, ewoUen noetrile.- Itching, confluent vesicles ~ the DOiltril.-
Anoania.
Pale countenance.- Tension of the skin in the fiwe.- Vehement, abo~\
rending quivering in the cheek.
Rending or stinging tooth-ache.- Red, swollen painful gums.
•
Digitized by Coogle
Phellandrium. - Phosphorus. 181
Dryness in the mouth and throat, at night. - Increued frothy aliva in the
mouth, which makes it necessary to spit out.- A seD88tion of burning, and burn-
ing :vesicles on the tongue.
Pressing and stinging pains in the throat, not when swallowing food, but 88•
liva, or when not. ·
Taste slimy, or after cheese.- Sweet taste, after drinking wate!'. -Bitter
taste of beer. - Thir1t for milk an4 beer, with looi.Aing an4 averlicm to ~DaW. -
Appetite for acids, with thirst.
Nausea and inclination to vomit, with inclination to eructate.-Eructation ~ith
an offensive odour, like bugs, or with the taste of what has been eaten.
Pain in the stomach, as from emptiness.- A seD88tion, u ifthe stomach were
full of water.- Burning in the stomach.
Griping in the bowels. - &motion of coltlnu1 in the abdomen, with agitatioa
in the bowels.- Obstructed flatulency, in the costal and lumbar region.
Hard stool with grasping and pressing in the anWI.- Liquid stool, SUcceeded
by tenesmus and sen88tion of I!Oreness in the anus.- Discharge ofmuch wind,
before and during evacuation.
Pale and diminished urine.
Menstruation too early.- Weakness and painfulness of the thighs, with the
menstruation.
Coryza, with obstruction ofthe noee, which permits only, ofbreathing &hrough
the mouth.- Coryza, with inflammation and sweUing of the noa&rils.
Hoarseness, with roughness in the throat and deduxion from the nOlle.
Dry suffocating cough, wilb short breath.- Night-cough, produeed by accu-
mulation of phlegm in the throat. - Frequent expectoration of phlegm, in the
morning, without cough.
Short breath, particularly when walking.- Opprea!ion of the chest, when
standing and breathing deep. ,
Stinging in the chelt. - Pressure in the Bide of the chest, in the rooming in
bed, di88ppearing, when lying on the painful side.
When sitting, pain in the small·of the back, as ifbeaten.
Rending in the shoulders and.8.11118.-Vibration in the calves of the legs.- A.
sellll8tion u ifblood were accumulating in the knees.
f.·33. rhosphorus•.
Ploospltor.
Durotion ofif~t: ·in aoul'e·diaeuee, a few lloura, but in·chronic eases it tsars
fur a few months.
Antidotu: campbora, vinum (in large doeee), coftea, nux vomica (in.poteDZe&).
It Gn~tDerl VJ6ll after: ealeiB earbonas, knolotwo., lycepodium,. pot888118 car-.
bonu, rhns toxicodendron.
After it an~tDer tDeU: petroleum, rbtia toxicodendron.
Digitiz byGoogle
- Phosphorus.
PredoMWmt 'rfecu: Rheumatic and arthritic rendiRK and m~, ehieily
in 1M limb6, al8o '4fter ewry cold, particularly al' night in bed. - Burning iB the
limbe.- Straining, spasmodic twitching and contraction of single' limbe.- Con-
vuleioDL - Torpor and deadne11111 of single parte. - 7remor ofthe limln, partieu- ·
larly when at work. - Easily injured by lifting. - Agitotion and congutiim. of
blood.- H..,.lulgufrom dlfferent orgt~M.- Weakneee and painfulne11111 in the
joint-. particularly the knees.- Gret~t, frequently sudden, diiGbling weakneBB
and languor, particularly in the morning, in bed.- Hysteric languor.- General
relaxation and nervou~ weaknu1. - Hetnline11 of the limln, and eluggiehneee. -
Lmnenu1, with formication in the parte affected. - Atrophy and consumption.- .
Consequences ofonanism. - Gutric complaint~. - .Aaiatic cholera. - Chlorosis.
......;, Atfeetion of the glands, particularly after contueioDL - Exostosis. - Rbathitic
and serophulous complaints. - Hypodumdritsc tmd hy1teric complai11t1. - Conse-
quences of anger and indignation. - Inflammation of internal orgaDe. - Great
seneitiveneee ofall the paeeioDL- Intolerance ofthe open, particularly.cool air.-
Easily taking eold•...:.. Pain& with the change of weather. - The greatest portion
of complaints arise in the morning and evening in bed, also after dinner, other
complaints begin with a meal and dilappear after it. - Particularly efficacious
after potasele carbonae (Kali), likewise in lean, slender penoDL
Desquamation of the skin. - Galled spots of the skin, with a rasping and pun-
gent pain. - Furfuraceous dry herpes. - Yellow or brown spots on the skin.-
Petechia. - FuTURClu.- Fungus ~~. - Small 100Undl bleed wery pro-
/Uiely. - Chilblain~ and coma, sometimes painful. - GafiKliG. - F9rmication in
the skin. ··
Great 1leepine11 in the daytime, like come. - Letbargia. - Late 1leep, in
the evening, and •leeple•me" at night, or frequent awakillg, difficult to faU ·
asleep again, occasioned by reltle•meBB, anziety, toeeing about, heat, giddineae,
and agitation ofthe blood.- Inability, to lie on the back or side.- Unrefreehing
sleep, and Uflrej'ruhed in the morning. - Twitohing of the limbe during sleep. -
Vivid, apprehensive, or tm.riotu, dreadful and horrible dreGflll.- Night-mare.-
Somnambulilm.
,Shuddering and chilli, in the evening in bel, withotlt thirst, sometanea with
gaping, with or without heat after it. - Coldneee of the limbe. - Chille succeed~
by heat, with thirst and perspiration, particularly in the afternoon and at night.
"T' Anxious heat or jlmhe• of heat. - Heat at night. - Consumptive fever. -
Clammy sweats at night. - Morning-~tDeat.
Melancholic sadness and dolefulness, sometimes interrupted by attacks of ve-
hement weeping or involuntary laughing. - Anriomne11 t~nd mental inquietude,
particularly when being alone, or during a thunder-stOrm, chiefty in the evening,
aMended with fearfulnell and horror.- Anxious solicitude about the future. -
Euily frightened.- Hypochondriac moro1ene11.- Wearinetlll oflife.- GretJt irri-
tGbility,freifulnus and angry 1/iolence.- Misanthropy.- Averrion to labour. -
linpudent, like amad man.
Great forgetfulness, particularly in the rooming.- Great aecum.
ulation of
ideas, which are difficult to arrange.
/
Dizziness and dulne11 of the head, particularly in the motning.- Frequent
Digitized by Coogle
Phosphorus. .
parozymt of giJJifiUII of clliferent kinde and at ditle,rent times, partiaularly in
the morning, at noon and in the evening in bed. - Giddinese when sitting, with
an impression 88 ifthe seat were elevated, at,tended with a hypochonliriac humour.
- Giddineu with ntJtuea, and a depruling headGChe. ~ Chronic giddine&B.
Paroxyams of arthritic headache, with nausea and vomiting, and a jerking
throbbing pain.- Nocturnal headache, preceded by nausea in the evening.-
Headache after ve~tion.- Headache in the morning.- The bead weak aud af.
fected by close thinking, music, laughing, hard stepping on the fteor &c. &c. -
Sensation of sorenf88 in the brain. - Stupefying headat'he, frequen&Jy with a
strong ~tion of the blood, and a pale faoe. - Heavines&, sensation offulness
and pre1Bingforward$ in the head. - Rending in the head, particularly the tem-
ples, or in one half of the bead. - Darting pain in different parts of the head,
.particularly in the evening. - Conge1tiM of blood towardl the head, with throb-
bing, vibration, heat and burning in it, particularly in the forehead. - The head
relieved in the open air.
Piercing externally on the side of the. head. - A sensation on the forehead,
88 if the skin there were too tight, with anxieJy.-The exterior of the head easily
affected by cold,· with a sensation in the open air, 88 if the brain became torpid.,....
Itching on the scalp. ..,.. The hairfalling off.
Pain in the eyes, 88 if in the orbitsl bone& - Preuure in the eyu, as from a
grain ofsand. - Stinging, rasping heat and burning in the eye•, particularly the
exterior canthus. - Different kinds of ophthalmitil. - The eye• ruMing, chiefly
in the open air, and in wind. - AgglutintJtion ofthe lidl, at night. - Hordeolum.
-Quivering of the lids and canthL - Dimsightedness. - Weakness ofsight, in
the morning when awaking.- Myopia.- Cataract& and amaurOIIi&- Glaucoma.
-Frequently a sudden day-blindne11, all things appearing 88 through tJ grt~y wil.
-Obscuration ofsight with the light of a candle.-Black 8p0tl or clotull htifore the
eyu.- Aversion to day- and candle-light.
Otalgia. - Vehement rending and piercing in the ear• and the head. - Throb-
bing and pul1ation in the ear. - Sensation of drynese in the ear. - Yellow dis-
charge from the ears, alternating with dysecoia. - Excessively acute hearing.-
Strong, echoing of sounds, particularly worda, in the ~ attended with a vibra-
tion in the head.- Dy1ecoia, with re•pect to the humt~n voice Particularly.- RWit-
~ and buzzing in the ears.
The no~e red and ltDOllen, with painfulness to the touch. - Inflammation of
the interior of the nose. - Soreness of the corners of the n~. - Ulcerated noe-
trils.- Many summer-freckles on the nose. - O.ffenriwe odourfrom the nou. -
Blowing out blood from the nose. - Epilttu:U, also with stools, or in the eve~.
-Hyperosmia, particularly during the paroxysms of headache. - Anoemia.
Pale, aunken, dirty, earth-colored countenance, with aunken eye•• aurrotmded
by livid circlu. - AlternatioQ Gf paleneu arul redne11 oftlefooe, with ftuahes of
heat. - Circumscribed rednese of the cheek. - The face blotJted, particularly
about the eye•. - Twitching of the facial muse)~ - Tenlion ofthe lkin ofthe
[Gee. frequmtly only on one Bide. - Painfulnese of one halfof the mce, when
OPening the mouth. - Pain in the face from a cold. - Rending in tAe fGCial
(maxillary) bonel, particularly in the evening, or at night. when lying. - Erup-
tion of pimples in the mce.- Cruata lactea. .
Digitized by Coogle
Phosphorus.
Blueish lips. - Cracked lips. - Tetters and pimples about the mouth. - lfl,
cerated anglu ofthe mouth. - Trismus.
Drawing or rending, gnawing, boring, throbbing, jerking and piercing tooth*
ache, mo~tly in the open air, or in the evening, and morning, eomet.imes only at
night, also occasioned by warm food. - The teeth ache 88 if ulcerated, in the
morning, when m88tieating. - Decay of the teeth. - Exeeesive looeeness of the
teeth.- Bleeding ofthe teeth. ~ Gnashing with the teeth.- 'l'be gums painfully
tender, inflamed, split, ulcerated, •rcollen and ealily bleeding.
Soreness of the cavity of the moutlL - Collection of much saltish, sweetish
saliva. - Viscous phlegm in the mouth. - H~emoptylris. - Suppurating bladdent
on the palate. - The skin on the palate shrivelled, 88 ifit would peel off.
Dryne11 of the throat, day and night. ....... Pressure in the throat.- Rasping,
~eraping and burning in the throat. - Hawking up phlegm, in the morning.
T88te slimy, or' 88 after cheese. - Bitterness in the mouth and throat, with
roughness. - Sour ta1te in the mouth, particularly after meall. - Ageusia.-
Anorexia, oocuioned by a sensation offulnet!ll in the throat, with much thirst.-
Longing for refreshments. - Hunger, after mE'818. - Bulimia. - After meall,
sleepine11 and sluggisbnef!8, beat and anxiety, burning in the bands, increMed
acidity, pressure in the stomach, cbesL, and abdomen, and oppression ofbreatb.
Eructation, l,Vith pain on the pylorus, as if something would burst there. -
Much eructatioft, mostly empty, particularly after meall, eomet.imes wjtb i11.e_fo
fectual efforts, or apasmodie, or •our, 'or with the taste ofwhat has been eatell.-
Sour regurgitation of what bas been eaten. - Heart-bum. - Hickuppill~.
Nausea of dYferent kinth, particularly in the morning, or evenin~, or after
meals. - Nausea with great hunger or thirst, disappearing by eating, or drinking
water;- Water-brash, chiefly after acids. - Vomiting, with great pains in tl1e
1tomach and excessive weakness. - ·Greenish or blackish 'Yomita. - Vomiting of
what bll8 been eaten, in the evening. - Vomiting ofbile or mucus, at night, with
coldness and numbnet!ll of the hands and feet. - H~ematemesis. - Vomiting at-
tended with diarrhrea.
Pain in the &tomach, particularly when touched.-:- Vehement pains in the
stomach, relieved by drinking cold liquids. - Constrieti~m ,f the pylonu; food
taken, comes up immediately.- Fulne11 in the 1tomach. -:Pre&sure in the stom-
ach, particularly also qfter meall, with vomiting ofwhat h88 been eaten.- Pain.
in the aerobiculus when touched, also in the morning. - Sensation ofcoldness or
beat and burning in the ltomach and &crobiculm. - Gastritis. - Agitation in the
pit of the stomaeh. - Grasping in the stomaeh, with obstruction of breath: - Un-
comfortablenet!ll in the whole body, particularly felt in the stomach.
StiRging and pressing in the hepatic region•.
.Diltention of the abdomen, particularly a.ftn· dinner.- Hot, ten!e belly.-
Contraeting pain in the abdomen.- Colie-like ·abdominal cramps.- Pinching,
cutting and rending in the abdomen, pal'tftlularly in the morning in bed, at night
and in the evening, with much urgency to stool and diarrhrea. -Piercing pain
in the abdomen, ali!o with paleness of the t»untenanee, chilliness and headache.
- Sell88tion of.celdness, or heat and burning in the abdomen.-Wambling in the·
abdomen, after breakfast. - Flaccidity in the abdomen. - Urgency in the sidw
ofthe abdomeu.- Inguinal hernia.-YeUow spots on the abdomen.- Olntructel
o;?itized by Coogle
Phosphorus.
jlatt.lleney.- FltJtulent colic, deep in the hypo~trium, exacerbated when lying
down.
Constipation.- Hard, tardy, interrupted, stool, which is lometimes too dry.,
and discharged .with difficulty.- Pahy of the inte1tiMl canal.- Vehement ur-
gency to evacuate. - Long continued l001enes1 ofthe bowelB. - Papeseent stools.
-Slimy, watery or bloody diarrha>.a.- Diarrhrea of pregnant women.- Un-
digested stools. - Gray, black or greeniih. 1tool8. - Involuntary stools. - Escape
of slime from the anus, which continually is opened. -Tape-worm or ascarides
di8eharged with the stool. - Aftel' evacuation, pressure, burning and squeezing
in the anus and rectum, and great relaxation. - Itching and piercing in the anus
and reetnm. - Spasm and coBI!triction of.the rectum. - HtemON'hoidal tumaur•
of the rectum and anm protruded, with painfulness when sitting or lying down.
Increued, watery urine. - Frequent discharge of sparing urine.- A whitish
thick, red gravelly, or yellow sediment in the urine. - A varigated cuticle on the
IIUJ'filce of the urine. - Hematuria. - Rasping and burning, when urinating. -
Tension or twitching and 6uming in the urethra, besides micturition.
&xupl derire very much increued, with a continual inclination to cohabit. -
Too rigid erections in the morning or evening.- 'foofrequent seminal emisftonl.
- The ejection ofaemen during coition is too powerless and quick.
Rending and piercing in the genitals, from the vagina into the utenu.- Steril-
ity, from excessive lustf'ulnet!S. - Men1truation too early and profuse, or too
amall and watery. - Protracted menstruation, with pains in the IJll8ll of the back
and abdomen. - Before menstruati~n, excessive bleeding of ulcers. -After men-
struation, great weakness, with blue circles around the eyes, and anxiety.- Men-
s&ruation too short.- During menstruation lancinating headache, fermentation in
the abdomen, expectoration of blood, pain in the back, soreness of the limbs, great
weakness and fever. - Discharge of blood from the uterus, during pregnancy. -
Acrid leucorrhma, producing bladders.
Obstruction and tediam dryne11 ofthe note. - Defluxion of the nose.- Gra-
vedo with a sore throat, and dizzinet!S of the head. - A continual discharge ofa
greenish yeUow mucm from the no1e.
Hoar•enes•, and roughne11 mthe laryn~, also long continued. - Aphonia, only
with a low whispering, when talking. - Dryness in the trachea and ehest. -
Ejection of phlegm from the larynx. - Phthisis larynges. - Croup.
Cough, occationed by a tickling and itching in the chest, or attended with raw-
nell ofthe chest and hoar•eneBI. - Hollow cough, at night, which preven~s sleep.
-Cough with •tinging in'the throat, the chest and scrobicnlus, sometimes only
at Jiight. - Dry cough every day continued for a few hours, with pa!ns in the
stomach a~d abdomen.-;- Cough ofpregnant women.- Dry fatiguing cough, as
if the skull would burst, excited by cold air, drinking or readin~ .loudly. -Bellow-
ing cough.- Cough, which produces vomiting.- Cough occasioned by laughing.
-Inveterate, dry cough, as if from 'tubercles or a chronic inflammation of the
lungs.- Cough, with a saltiab purulent expectoration, particularly in .the morning
and evening.- Greenish' expeetoration with the cough~ - Cough, with an ex-
pectoration of a viscid phlegm or ofblood, with a rasping sensation in the cllest. ,
- Phtbisilt puhnonalis purulent&. - Phthisis pituitosa..
Digitized by Coogle
Phosphorus. - Phosphori acidmn.
Loud and asthmatic respiration. - Difftcull re'Pirlllion, particularly in the
evening, with anxiety in the che1t, WOI'IIe when sitting. - TigAtne11 and oppret·
non of the chett, of differe'At kind~, particu1arly in tlie morning, or evening, also
when.exercising.- Spasmodic tightne88 of the chest.- Nocturnal patoxyams of
su1focation.- Incipient palsy of the lungs.
Presaure in the chest. - HeatJine11, fulne.. cmcl t~ in the cltett.- Con-
tracting ~patm~ in t4e chett.- Rending in the cheat.- 8titclau in the chett, par-
ticularly the let\ aide, sometimes long continued, or when touched.-Sore bumiag
pain in the chest.- JtVIammatitm of the lung.- Weakneas in the chest.- Con..
gution ofblood tOUJardt the chett, with heat rising up to lhe.throat.- Palpitatitm
ofthe heart, of d!ferent kindt, particularly at\er meals, in the morning and even-
ing, also in sitting and with every mental affection. - Pain below the let\ breast.
when lying upon.- Yellow spots on the chest.- Ef'!llipelar in the mamme, with
burning and stinging.- Suppurating ulcer• on the mamtnct.
·. Painl in the back and lumbar region, iJI ifbroken, Puticularly after sitting for
along time, which prevents rising, walking and every other movement.- Burn-
ing in the lumbar region.- Rending and rtinging in the rlwultkr-blatlu.- Torpor
ofthe nape. - Pre88ure on the shoulders. - Thickne88 of the throat.- Swelliag
of the glands of the throat and axill~e: - Itching and stinging in the axille. -
Offensive perspiration in the axillle.
Rheumatic rending (and lancinating) in the shoulders, arms and hands, par--
ticularly at nigbt.-Burning in the armr and haw.-Numbness ofthe arms and
hands.- Weakness and tremor ofthe 4rml aftel handt, chiefly when holding IIOIDe-
thing. - Furfuraceous tetter on the arm. - Congestion of.blood towards the
banda, with redness and distention of their veins, particularly when they hang-
down.- Spraining pain in the ha11d and finger-joints, with tension.- Swelling
ofthe hands, at night.- Heat in the hands.- Nocturnal coldne88 ofthe hands.-
Contraction and twitching of the ,fingers. - Deadness of the fingers. - Palsy of
the fingers. - Torpor of the points of the fingers.- Cracked skin ofthe finger-
joints.- Chilblain. on the fingers.
Pain in the buttocks, when sitting, aa if they were ulcerated. - Wrenching
pain in the jointl of.the hip, knees and feet, with external heat. - Painful weari-
ness and heaviness of the legs. - Burning ofthe I~ and feet. - Straining and
8Jl88lll in the legs, particularly the knees.- Jerks in the legs, during the day, ani
at night, before falling asleep. - Drawing and rending in the knee, down to the
feet. ~ Herpes about the knee. - Petechia on the legs.- Exostosis on the shin-
bone. - Jerking in the calves of the legs. - Rending and piercing in the feet,
chiefly at night.- Stinging painful Oldema ofthe feet or only the ankles, mostly in
the e~, or at\er walking in the open air.-Easily spraining the foot-joint. -
Te~- _the points of the toes.- Inflammation and redness of the baU of the
big tOe; accompanied with a stinging pain.- Chil~Jlaim aftel cornr «m the toer.
t3.4. Phosphori aeidum.
PMJ7Mrlc tH:i4. - Gota. Plt<Hpltnoi•~•­
Dtcration ofeffect: from a few days up to 7 weeks.
Antidote•: camphora, coffea.
Digitized by Coogle
Phosphori acidum.
Vtetl,. • ~Cor lacheai&
It CAUtOerf·tDell after lache.ie, toxicodendron.
A,fter it IIIII1M' IOell: cinchona, Jacheeis, toxieodendron, Yeratrum.
Pmlomirumt effect.: Drawing and jerking rending in the limb1.- ArtAritic
com,wnt.. - Squeezing preesing pains. - A senation, a1 if the perio1tmm of
tAe bonu tDere ~eraped with a knife. - Burning rending pains in the bones at
night.-BZ01toril.-Caries.-Ostitls.-Rhachitis.- Hypochondriac complaints.
- Conlequencu of grief, ION'OtD or di.Hppointed love.- Diaorden and weakne.
&om the loee of juiee.- Conaequencea of onanism.- Glandular tumefactioDI!.-
A sell88tion ofsoreness in the limbe and joints, 811 from palsy or growth, partic-
ularly in the evening and at night. - Numbneea and pot0erlume11 ofthe limb•.-
. Heaviness in the limbe and joints, with great sluggishneea. - Excessively tired
after walking. - General,·great, aJao nervou~ wealmeu, with great propellllity to
perspiration, in the daytime. - Emaciation. - Strong agitation of the blood, with
great restlessneee.- Pain~ ore molt ezacerbated when Gt re1t, relieved by exercise,
and the nocturnal pains by applicati~n ofa pree~~ure.
ID8eDI!ibility of the skin. - Formication under the skin. - Red burning spots
on the limbe.- Scarlet-eruptions.- Erysipelatous inflammations.- Red, minute
miliary eruption~ and ~ore&efl11Ce , standing in group8. - Eftlorescence, with
burning and soreness. - Veeielee of itch. - Herpes.- Cornl, with stinging and
burning.- Chilblains.- Ganglia.- Condylomata. - Furuncle•. -Flat, indolent
ulcers, with a dirty pus and a fringed bottom.- Inveterate, itching ulcers.
Great sleepiness in the daytime, early in the evening, and in the morning, with
difficulty to rouse. - Como. - Late sleep, and sleeplessne88 at night, occasioned
by reetle88Dess and dry heat. - When falling asleep, cyphers before the eyes.-
Profound, firm 1leep. - Jerking and grasping about with the hands, moaning,
talking and singing, sometimes laughing, sometimes sad features, during slumber,
with distorted, partially opened eyes.- Anziou8 dream~ of dece&IM'd persons, with
fear when awaking.- Wanton dreams.
Shivering and chilU, sometimes with shsking, sometimes with coldne11 ofthe
hands andfeet, mostly in the evening and without thirst. - 'SeiiiJ8tion ofcoldness,
with chilliness and coldness in the abdomen. - Fever-heat in the eveaing, with-
out thirst, with anxiety and grea• irritation of the circulation of the blood.-Chills
alternating with beat. - Nervou~ fever, with unconsciousness, sometime& linger-
ill« aervoua fevers. - Putrid fevers.- Night-~tDeau. - Morning-eweats. ·
Inclination to moan, 811 from home-eickness. - Sadness and solicitude about
the future. - Anxioualy poring over his diseaae. - Restlet~~n688 and hutineee.-
Silent irklomene88 and dilinclination to tpeak. - Ezcesrive ind?fference.
Dulness, and sluggishness of mind, lack of imagination.- VIIQIJity ofthoughts
and inability for mental labour.- Dlusion of the senses.
Dizziness of the head, as af\er intoxication, or after exceesive pollutions. -
Reeling giddiness, when standing or walking, particularly in the evening.
Headache, in the morning. - Continual headache, which makes it necef!88ry
to lie down, and is increased to an intolerable degree by the least concWIIIion or
by noise. - Heauinh• ofthe head, as if it •ere full ofwater. - Hard, •quemng
Digitized by Coogle
Phosphori acidum.
pre1rure in the head, increased by pressing upon ·the head and tumiog it, also by
dose thinking, and ascending steps, but chiefly after midnight on that part of the
head, upon which one lies. - A compreeeing sensation in the brain. - Rending
. headache.- Stitche1 in the temple•, or above the eye. - Jerks or shocks, beating
and hammering in the head.
Pressure and darting e.xtemally on the head. - Drawing pain in the bones of
the occiput. - Soft, flaggy, gray hair.-The hair fulling off.
Dull, glassy, lustrelese eyes. - Prurure in the eye•, with a sensation 88 if the
eye-ball were too large.-Coldne!!8 in the interior margins of the eye-lid&- Burn-
ing in the lidl and canthi, pttrticularly in the evening, with candle-light.-Inflam-
·mation of the eyE@o red veins in the sclerotia tcnfards the intemal canth118.-
Hordeolum.- Yellow spote in the albuginea. - Running eyes. - Dilated pupil&
-Staring look. - Dimsightedness 88 through mist.- Myopia.- A black streak
before the eyes. - Photophobia in the daytime, the eyu dazzled 1Dhen ganng at
any thing bright.
Pierci141! in the earl, also with drawing in the cheeks, jaws and teeth, and in-
creGied only by mmicJtune•. - Spasmodic drawing in the ear. - Intolerance of
mmic, noise and talking.- Strong reverberation ofall sounds in the ear.- Dy•e-
coitJ, at a distance.- A shrieking sound in the ears, when blowing the nose.
The back oftbe nose swollen, with red spot&- Scabs on the backofthe nose.
- Inclination to stir in the nose. - Stench from the nose. - Purulent discharge
from the nose. - Epistaxis.
Pale, sunken countenance, with sunken eyes surrounded by livid circles, and
a pointed nose. - Disfigured countenance. - Heat in the face, with tenrion in
the 1kin oftheftJCe, as ifalbumen were dried on it. - Large pimples in the fuee.
- Buming in the cheeks.
The lips full of ulcerating cracks, with painfulnese. - Pimples and scabs in
the red part of the lips. - Pimples on the chin.- Swelling of the submaxillary
glands. - Pain in the lower maxilbt, 88 ifit were dislocated.
Rending tooth •ache, increased by warmth of the bed, or by beat and cold. -
Nocturnal burning in. the front teeth. - YellotD teeth.- Loose, retracted or swol-
len and bleeding gum.. - Painful tubercle on the gum&
Dryness of the mouth without thirst. - Vilcom phlegm in the mouth tmd on
the tongue. - Pricking and buming on the tongue. - Involuntarily biting the
tongue, at night. .- Swelling of the tongue with pain when talking. -:- Speaking
through the nose. - A rasping Be088tion in the cavity of the mouth, when ~
ticating solid food. - Sore, ulcerated 10ft paltJte, with burning pains.
Pain in the throat, 88 ifit were excoriated, with rasping and stinging, partieu.;
larly when swallowing (food).- Contracting pain in the throat-pit.- Hawking
up a viscid phlegm. ·
Putrid, sourish, herby taste. - Long after-tMte of what has been eaten, psr-
ticultJrly of bread. - Loathing of bread,' which tastes bitter. - Great •thirst for
cold milk or beer. - After mettll, a premwe, or a sensation ofshaking up and
down in tAe ltomtJCII, dizzine88 of the head, unoomfortablen-, fulnees and sleepi-
o-, or wntish m.xauon.
Interrupted or crcrimonioul eructlltion. - Continued qualmialme88, in &he
throat.-Vomitillg ofwhat has been eateo.-Sour vomiting.
Digitized by·Google
Phospbori acidum.
PftMure in •ltODUieb, 88 6om a wei«ht, when mating and aAer 6'11JrY meal,
._when touehin!J ~ pit ofthe etomaeh. ·
A equeeziug prell1ll'e in the hypochondree, particularly the liYer, wUh uxiety.
-Seuttion efheavineee in the liver.- Stitehea in the renal repm.
Distended and temJe beUy.- Contraction ia the abdomen, in both llidea ofthe
umbilical region. - PincliflK pri" in the .w-en, particularly the region of the
naveL- Stinging and cutting in the abdomen.- Bumi~ in the hypogutrium.-
Clucking in the abdomen, 88 from water pouring out, particuJarly when touched,
aJao when bending the abd~tmen forwarde and backward&·- Frequent rolling and
rumbling. in tk ab._,., - Much flatuleu.cy and frequent dieebarge of wind.-
Swelling of the inguinal gland&
Hard, crumbling ll!ltool, dilcharged with difficulty.- Frequent stool&-.Purg-
.- ing, but not debilKating stools.- Watery or undigeeted purging stools.- Muooue,
whitieh-gray ~stool&- Involuntary pappy Btool, with a 88f\18tion 88 if
wind would eaeape. - During evacuation the luemorrhoidal tumours ofth~ rec·
tum are protruded. - After evacuation teneamue. - Rending, bitillg and iaehi~
in the anua and rectum. '
Urgency to urinate, with a diminished diiiCbarge.- Frequent copiota dU-
charge qf c tDctery urine, which immediately deposits a thick, white cloud.-
Urme look. like milk, with thiCk gelatinous clots. - Urinating at night. - Burn-
ing in the urethra during micturition. - Spasmodic conetrietion in the bladder.
A •tiatfi"K pain in the glatu. - Prickling, and moistening .vesicles about the
frenulum.- Condylomata·- Eruption on the penis and I!Crotum.- Inflammatory
swelling of the ecrotum. - Pain in the testicles when touched. - A gnawing
pain in the teetieles.- Swelling of the teeticles with tbickneM, hardn8118 and
reneion of the spermatic chord. - Deficiency ofeexual desire. - Frequent erec-
tions, without inetination to cohabit. - Frequent, auo tle6ilitating 8emifUll emil-
8imv. - Semen dieeharged with the pre81ling to stooL ·
During meuatruation, pain in the liver.- Yellowish, itching leuoorrham, after
,menstruation.
Vehement coryza, with red margine of the noee.- Deftuxion from the nose,
with cough and burning ia the chest and throat.
E~ hotw8tmellll and roughneae of the larynx.- Contracting pain on the
throat-pit, which eollltriets the laryu.
Cough from ticklf.n&" and •craping in the lary7u, or above the pit of the
stomach, dry in the evening, with a whitillh-yeHow expectoration in the ruomin~.
-Cough urith tiOnliting of what hu been eateu., and ~.- Expectoraaon
with the cough, of a herby emell and taste. - St.ioking cough. - Cough lllit1t a
purulent di«harge and pain in the eheet.
Short breath and incapcrcity to t«lk loag, occuioned by weakneee of the chest.
-Spaamodie contracting opprellion of the. chest, like eonatrietion.
Preaute i1a the chut, frequently equeezing or catting. - Stitehea in the Bides
of the chest.- Inflammation of the lup, also mnoUB.
On the back. ahouJder-bladea; throat and breut, an eruption, which aches
when touched. - Formicclticm in tl&e 6aek and ltunbar region. --Straining and
spumodic drawing in·the mUIICiee of the throat, particularly wben moving the
head. - Miliary' eruption on the throat. - Furuneles in the axille.
25
Digitized by Coogle
Phosphori acidum. - Platina.
. ~ ,....... ia the upper- ... wfeofU11ie. haaU-fia......- Dra1f:in«
and jerking rending in the arms and fingel'l. - Kruptioa ofpituplell OD &he arms.
- Drawii~A' eutliag in the joints of the elbow., bods.and.fiDprs. - TremuJoua
wealmeaa. - A ganglion on the back efthe hand. ~ ROQih, ahrivelled, parclaed
akin ofthe banda and fingt~l'I!J.- Deadn- oftke finpra, frequently only on one
aide, aharply marked. - Stitch• in the fingers and their joints.
Swelling and .fvr-clu on the buttookl. - &nntion u if be4Jtef& its tl&e AiJ¥
rml·thiglat!, particularly when walking or rising from Bitting....... Cramp in the hip-
joint, with a rending pain through the whole leg, intelerable when sitting and at
meala. - Preuittg equee%ing in the thighs and legs, feet and toes. - Rendiug
through the whole leg, with heaviness in the joints.- Nocturnal burning rendinC
in the shin-bone. - Pimples on the knees and lega, running together and beeom-
ing ulcera, which readily bleed. - 1nveterate, itching ulcer• on the leg•. - Bu,..,._
ing in the feet allll tolu, and galling between the toes. - Swelling of the feet. -
Ft)9t-sweat. - Coma. - Chilblains on the toes. - Swelling of the knuckle.of the
big toe, with burning throbbing and dull cutting pain in it, when touched.
t 36. Platina.
Duration ofeffect: 40 to 50 days.
Antidote: Pulsatilla.
l!sed as an antidote/or: plumbum (in lead-colic).
It ar1swers well ~fter: belladonna, or alternately with it.
Predominant effecte,: Inward prei!ISing, constricting, dull tl&ruating,·or•quee%--
ing pains, as if occasioned by a plug. - Spasmodic, ~king ·and drmcing paiTUJ·
in the limb3 and joint•. - Tension in the limbs; as if..from tight w~g up.-
Pains, as after a blow or contusion, .particularly 111hen pre.ring on the painful
spot.- Paius begiD. weak, increase gradually, frequently with regular int,enals,
and decrease in the same way.- Di8abling •ensation of numlme88 and torpor on
d!ffer.:mt spote, frequently w\th tremor and palpitation of the heart.-~ Hy•teric
tetanus, with full consciousness. - Eclampsia. - Bad coMeqtceRce• offright and.
grief, or of ve~atious provocation. - The mental.und bodily Bympt01111 alternate in
their aj~ptarance. - Poisoning toith lead. - E~cesrive langv.or. - Tingling rest-
leesnees, sensation ofweakness und tremor in .the limbe, chiefly when at rest and
in 'he open air.-The greater part of the oomplainta are e~acerliated a~~hen f" rut,
and relieved by motion; - The' complainta increase particularly tottl4f'118 evening
and in a room, and are relieved in the open air. - Partieul6rly niUJbls for the
female •e:r. ·•
Sctre tingling, frettiy; and itching, or pr*kling burning on diaerem spota,
with an irritation.to IICI'Iltch.- Ulcer• (on the~ and toea).
Spttsmodic, conwlrive g4'pling, particularly in the aftemoon.'- Great eleepi-
nees in the evening.- Long sleep in the JDOI'ning. - Anxious dreams of.wttr and
bloodahed. - WaRton drea1111. - At nisht, mostly after midnight, awaking wilh
anxious, troubleeome, sad thought&- Uneonecioumea~ at night, when.aw~.
-Supine position in sleep, .the IU'ID8 stretchell o..-er the head, .the thigba drawa
up, with inclination 1o unoover the legs.
Digitiz1
ed by Coogle
Platina. !91
Continual ebilliDeea and ebiveriBg over the whole bcldy, partiealuly ill theopen
1lir.- Puerperal fever.
Btldrt£u, ptrt.icularly .. tae ewemng, vitlgreat tncli7Wition to eoup, frequently
(every other day) alteraaq with UCM!ive merrimenl and jooelllene88.- btwo-
ltmtary eoeeping. - Loud mreaming fur aid.- .&cemve cmguiM, t.Dith drtGdful
fear ofthe approacl ofdeath, with tremor, palpitation of the bean and oppl'ei!Jion
ofthe breath.- Euily frightened. - Greet irritability, and after vexation for a
ooiU!iderable time dilll!atisfied.-Indelent indi&renee and at.traction.-Arrogcmce
cmd a too high at«m of ORe .elf, aoith amtempt ofaU other pereona Gnd thing•,
even what are at other times highly esteemed and loved; cbiefty in a room, lMil
in the open air and the light ofthe IND.
Mental dissipation and forgetfuln-. - lhaccnucioumu•. - Delirium.- IDu·
&ion of the ~.~en.ses, as if one eelf were very great; but othera 8ID8I1 and low.-
Mtntal dutvrbGnce ajkrfright mad gmfor vezatioa& prosocation.
Straining stupor in the heaJ, as ifa board were put before it. - Transient ~
taek.a of giddiness, in the evening, wilh unco~J!!Ciousnees.
Headacke, grGdually i11Cf'eaing and tlecreaing. - Attacks of arthriUc head·
aehe with nausea and vomiting. - &motion of numbnes• in 1M heGtl, and ex·
temally on the vertex. - Pain in lbe flides oflhe head, a from G plug. - Pfou.
8ing, &palmOdic paim in the forehead and temples, like a pre88ing together or in-
eoord, very much increased by stooping and .exercising. - Formication in the
temples.
A ~~enaation as ifthe akin ofthe vertex were contracted.
Pain in the eyes from looking intently. - Tension in the orbits, with eoreneM
of their edges. - A 6pG6fAOflic pain on the edge ofthe orbit. - Oomprelling ten·
eion in the eye-11&11& - Pre..ure in the eye., with eleepineat. - Prickling in the
eantbi. - Senaation of heat or coldneu and ra&ping in the ey•.- Spasmodic
trembling or quivering of 1M liM. - Dietortion of the eyes. - Objeeu appear
8111aller.- Cloudy dimsightedneas, frequently with a painlels drawing about the
eyes.- Wavering and glistering before the eyes.
8ptmn1Hlic otalgia. - Jerka in the eftl'S. - Senaation of coldneaa, IDit1 a •ea-
Bation of numbne88 in the ear•, extending over the cheeks to the lips. - Fretting
prickling on the eara. - DuU roaring and r:olling in tM e.,.••
A spasmodic l!en83tion and numbness in the noee.
Pale, sunken countentmee. - Burning keGt and glo~Ding redfla6 qf1M cout..
nonce, with a vehement thint and drynell8 ofthe mouth, partie111arly in the even-
ing. - Distortion of the &.eial muscles. _;, &motion ofccHdneu with prickling and
numlmu. in the whole side of the &.ee.-Tigbtening, ~ •qvee~irlg,.,..
pre..ure on 1M zygomatic bone6.
. A painful itching on the lips.and chin, which make. it aece.II'Y to ICI'Ilteh.-
Biq and pungent paillful vftlicles on the lips.- Dry, ~·lipe.- A...U
blfiNIM'ed tuberele of vuieou veina, on the chiD.-!M.D....,. ofnuam.e. aad
eoldnuB tlbout the mouth and on the chin.- 7nnlw.
Throbbing, gi'Dbbing too&h-aehe.- Jerkin«, ~ drawing in the tee&b.
- OriiCU in the P'M·
Digitized by Coogle
- Platina.
Burniog in the mouth 1JJider the tonpe.- A .....,.,. 011 1M ~. u ifit
~~~ere burat.
The throat ~ebing u itexcoria&ed a.l eore, when ewallowing .tift or uet...._
~ drawillg in~ throat, .. iftt _,.e ~-A eeaation u ifthe
uvula were eJoD«ated. - ilcraping aa4 mach pblepl ia tbe thnlaL - H-!ritw
vp p/tlegm.
Vilcoua, elimy ta1te. - 8ttJeet "'*oa the point ofthe ton~e. - Atliplic.-
Appetite vaniebea wilh the fii'Bt biL- Aeertion to Mt, ftonc fltft'e ..,._,-
Loathing of meaL - Bulimia and eatiili butiJy, with an inelinatioe to de8pile
e-t'ery thing. - Eructation after meals. ·
Ineffectual efforts to eructate.- Vacant, lOud eructation.-~ ofu offen-
sive, bitteriaiHweet fluid, which readily cauaea choking.
Constant ftGUIICI, with a tremuloW! weaknet~~~ ud anxiety.
Preuure in tlte 1tomocla, ebiefly 'ffter meal& - Coatrtlding ptliM ia the pit'of
the 1tomtJC/a, a if too tight laced. - Preesure or Bhocb, or throbbing, lltinging
and ¢ping in lhe 8Cl'Obiculus. - Burning in the pit ol the •tomaeh, from the
dueftt down into the abdomen.
DuU thrvtting, preuing ,.mt in tAe lliHlomea.- lnftation of the abdomea,
with a difficult, interrupted dillcharge of wind.- Cotutrieticm ift tAe aWomea.-
Coliu HtvmiM. -A piacJamg i" tie regior& oft1wawl.-Pungency in the aides
of the abdomen and umbilical region. - A gnawing eeoeation in tbe abdomen.-
Drowing paiR in the groin, proceeding from the !JIDRB ofthe back.
Conltipotion, aleo after poieooing with lead, or when travelling. - Frequent
efforts to evacuate, with a small stool, which is dillcharged in lumps only aDd witb
great exertion.- Plpeacent stools.- Tape-wonn ud aeearidee clilcharged with
the stooL - Blood dil!charged from the anus daring and beaid• evacll8tion. -
Aft£r ~. lltuJdermg oeer tlw 10lele hdy, or eeoeation of weakness in the
1tbdomen. -Frequent itching pruriency and urgmcy in the anw, particularly
towards evening.- Violent dull stitches in the rectllm.
Urine red, with whitish clouda, or becoming turbid, with a reddilh eediloent.-
Slow but frequent urinal di!lcbarge. .
Burning and fretting on the scrotum. - Unnaturally iacretllltl .ezual tl~
with ·many erections, chiefly at qbt. - Prostatic fluid escaping. - Coition too
short ud with a small enjoyment only.
Beariag tloum tOtDardl the Kenitah, with preasure in the hypogastrium.-, UJJ-
natural irritation ofthe tezual tlerire in tDOmera, particularly 10laen lyiffg-in, with
a painful eeoeitiveness aDd wolupt•out pruriency of tAe gemtah, i1UIIard and out-
ward.-hldoration of the utenu!.-Congestion of blood to the uterus.-Sterility.
- Abortut.- Metrorrhagia, of a thick dark blood, attended wilh drawing in the
&-roin. - Ca~Gmeaw too ~arly otl profme, but too short. - Before menstruatioa
cutting aDd throe-like pains in the hypogftstrium. - Tie ~ of the
tlleftiU atleftdetl.1flil1 tpcmnollic atltlcb.- Dwing menstruation, bearing .tOwn to
*he pnitals, with p!at sensitiveoees ofthem.- Menstruation too long ~d..
-After 1118D8b'1Wion, weakness.- Metrorrhagia •fter deli_,.or abortUI.-
Lochia euppreaeed, or too proflllle.
Digitized by Coogle
-~~~·~-=--~·=-----------
--,.- .
Platina. - Plumbum. ...
laeft'ectual irritation to eneeze, and tiagliog in the noee.- Gravetlo, t'Nqaendy
only on one side. '
.ApAonia.- Short, dry cough.
&ort lweGIA, tDiti " eoutringing opprurion qftlae chut.-Anxious oppreaon
of the ellest with ~th riling from the pit ofthe 8toll!8ch.
' Pain in the cheat as from a weight, with inclination to breathe deep,- which ia
preYented by wealme-.-- Dull thru:lting preuure in tlae clae1t.- Spumodic
pn!l8lll'e in one halfof the cheat. - A tpMmOJic pain in tile chut, 1DlicA,. at firtt
VJeflk, increGiu to a ezce11Rre 1trength, cmd decre01e1 in tlae 1ame tDafJ· - Dull
etitehea in the side of the cheat when inspiring. - An.riotu palpitation qfthe Taearl.
Paiu "' if beatm in tile baC1l antllumbar rp, particularly 1DAeR zwe•ling
upcm or bending backwards. - Spemnodie pein in the small of the hack. - Sensa-
tion of-torpor in the oe coecygis.- Stif/Be., qfth.e Mpe.- Weakneu and tighten--
ing lfentfltion qfnumbne11 in the Mpe.
Heaviness and rela.rfltion of the tJf'mlf, 1Dith a tl.Usbling dra~ in them. -
Pressing and spasmodic peins in the fore-anna, hands and fingers, particularly
when taking hold ofsomething. - Itching fretting, prickling and burning oil the
arms, hands and fingers.- sensation of torpidity in the fore-arms.- Painful
throbbing in· the fingers.- Numbnesa of the fingers.- Ulur~r on tlaejingen.
Spasm and straining on tlae thighe, feet and toe&-Weakneu in the tiaighlf antl
knees, 01 if beaten. - Jerks and shocks in the leg. -Tremulous reatlessnees in
the legs, with a seD811tion of numbneee anll torpor.- Weeriness and numbneas of
the feet, when sitting.- Excoriation and fretting pain on the ankle of the foot,
very.much increased by the least touch.-Painful throbbing in the toes.-Swelling
of the ball of the toe, with rending and throbbing in it, chiefly at night.- Ulcer•
on tlae toes.
1.36. Plumbum.
Duration qfejfoet: from 30 to 40 dayi.
Antidotu: alumina, belladonna, hy0110yamua, opium, platina, lltrnmonium,
and eleetricit.e&
Predominant effects: Drawing and rentlittg in the limbs, nw.t vehement at
night, by rubbing IOIDetiml!s wandering to an other spot.- Burning on diderent
parts of the body.-Vehement jerking, tittgling paiu in the bonel.-Cmutrirtging
pains cmd spasms in interior organs.- Torpor, crooking and deeurtation ofsingle
limbe.- Par11lytic attacks. - Spumodic shaking and jerking ofthe limbs, convul-
lions and crmnp•, frequently succeeded by paralysis. - Epileptic parozy~. - ·
001tric ~nll.- Chlorotic cmd icteric complaint•.- Apoplftia. - 8~,
chiefly produced in large eompany.- Hypochtmlriac and laylteric oomplai.ntt.-
Hea'riness and sluggishneu in the limbe. -·Great 1DeMnell cmd ltreagt}lle1811ell,
1Dith tremor qfthe limb•.- After a small exercise weakness which makea it aeces-
ary to lie down, with puleation through the whole body.- Flaccidity of the mns-
elea.- ae.en.l ~, eapeeiaHy flf the parta pal8ied, auece,eded by tume.·
Digitized by Coogle
Plumbum.
&ction of them.- Dropricol IIDfllliftg, aiiiO of the whole body.- Teudern• ta
.tbe open air.- The complaints gradually make their appearance, ftDi8h for some
while and return.
The akin colored like ktld, blueUh or gdlow.- Dark-brown epota an ~er the
body.-Small wounds are very liable to indammatioo and suppuration.-~
in the uJeen.- Ganglia.
Gfftlt 1lupiftea in the dtJ~, tf'M eGiilyfollirag M«p, even when taJkiDg.
-Coma and lethGrp- Late eleep.- ~ lit nilf61, with abdomiDal
Cr&mfll'.- Startling in lllleep. - Many also wanton dreama wi&h en!Ctiona.- Talk-
ing in lllleep.
Prevaiiog chillineu and /rigor, particularly -.fthe litnU.- Cold sweat&
Dejeetednea~ and liknt melonclwly. - Gfftlt ~ty end rutlu~MU• with ·
sighing.- Tirednells, with avenion to talk BBd labour. - Dilcouragemeat.-
Wearinees oflife.
Weak memory. -Imbecility.- Madnea - IDI!BDity. -Deliria. - Fury. -
Wild deliria. with a bewildered countenance.
Dizzinees of the head, aa if from indolence and eadneee. - &v.pepd ill the
~elld, and falling down with uncooacioUIJil-. - Intoxication. - GiddiJiell, par-
ticularly when eioopmg and looking at an elevated object.
Hetldsche, a if~~~ by 11 boll rilirag from the tA,.., tnlo the bnrin. -
Hea'line11 of the head, partic~y the occiput and fprehead. -Rending in the
forehead and templee.-Lancinating headache...-Cengeetidn of blood to the head,
with puleation and heat in it. ' · .
Great dryness 'of the hair. - 'I'M 1aair follirag 011t, even from the eye-brow&
and whiskers.
Painfully preesing pairu in the eye, a if the eye-boll tDere enlarged.- Heavi-
De88 in the eyes, when moving them. - Pally of the liM. - Contraction in the
eyes and lids. - Rending in the lids with sleepiness. - Congestion of blood to the
eyes.- In~tion of the eye and iris.-The eyes closed by matter at night.-
Swelling of the eye& - YeUowilh albuginea. - Spaemodie contraction of the eye-
lids. - Distortion of the eyes. - Contracted pupils. - Clowly dimlightedneu,
wbich makes it nece.u-y to wipe the eyes.- Myopia.- Amaurosis.
Rending pains in the ear1. - Boring and stinging in the ean. - Sensitiveness
to noise.- Frequently a sudden dyseeoia.- Deafness.
Cold ll0118. - Eryllipelatous inflammation of the n0118. - Purulent vesicles in
the corners of the nose, which are somewhat inflamed. - Stench in the DOII8.- ·
Anosmia.
Pole, yellow countenance, like deatk.- Bewildered appearance. -Bloated face.
-Swelling of one half of the &ce. - .The akin of the filce grea&y ~ and 1
amooth to the touch. - Rending in the maiillary bonu, disappeariug after rub-
bing, or wandering to another spot.- Boring .in the lower muilla.
Desquamation of the akin of the lipi.- Trilmtu. -Swelling of the aubmaxil·
lary glands. -
Rending jerking tooth-ache, increaaed by cold. -The teeth covered with a
yellowish mucus. - Tbe teeth beeoming black. - Decayed, crumbling, offerwitle
Digitized by Coogle
~--~==~~~----
. -- fJ
Plumbum.
teeth. - The teeth becoming looae and fialling out.~ GJ1811biD& with the tee& -
Pale ewoJlen gunis.- Hard painful tubercles on the gums.
Dryrtu6 ofthe mouth.- Much nt~Utilh 1aliN in the mouth, with dryne81 in
tJae pharynx. - Salivation. - Froth in the mouth. - Viecid phlegm in the mouth,
in the mOrning, when awaking.- HtMnOptym.- Aphtbe and offensive ulcera.in
the mouth.- Inflammation, swelling and heavinee~ of the tongue.- Dry, brown,
cracked tOngue.- Green or yellovl furred tongue.- Impeded tpeecl.
Sore throat, 88 from ttDeUiR!f or a foreign 1Ub1tance in the p'luJioynz.- Senaa·
tion ,., ifa ball10ere riliai in tAe throat. - CoDBtriction .of the throat. - Pally of
the piwwynz, toitl inability to ltiHJllot.D.- Drawing in the Cl810pbagui, while eating,
as ifit would be pulled oft:-A creeping senaation in the Cl810pbagus. Jnflamma·
tion and induration of the toDBil&
Tate nt~Utilh or bitter.- Sulphurous sour taste deep in the throat. - &rtm(f
tltir1t for cold water.- Anore.na.- Strong hunger, aleo after meals. - Gteat in-
clination to bread and pastry.
Eructation with the taste of what has been eaten. - Vacat eructation, fre-
quently very vehement and painful - Sweetilh eructation. - Hiekupping. -
RiliR/f ofa dOUr or ttDeetilh UHJter. ,
Loatmng and frequent inclination to vomit, sometimes attended with ineffectual
efforts.- Vehement continued ~miting, either of VJhat .,.,., beea eatea, or of a
yellotllilh, greeni6h cmtl blackilh matter, with violent pains in the stomach and
abdomen.-Vomiting of bile or blood.- Riaepalion. ·
M01t vialent paim in the 1tomach.- SeWJation ofheavineea and preuure in the
.ltomach, aJao after meals. - Dull anxious preesure in the pit of tbe stomach.-
ConttriR!fiR!f ~pa~m in the 1tomach•...:. Stinging from the ecrobiculus cordis to the
back.- Cutting and burning in the atomach.- Gastritis.
Stinging pret!Bing pains in the liver.- Affections of the epleeo.- DUorder1 of
the kidney•.
M01t violent paim in the abdomen, with retraction of the naveL- Distention
and hardneM of the abdomen.- Vehetnent COnltriR!fiR~f colicl, particularly in the
umbilical region, VJilh a hard conlf'action oftAe abdomen, frequently with irregular
elevations l)lld deepeninge, incretlled by tAe leat touch, and moet vehement at
night. - Pinching and cutting in the abdomen. - Piercing about the naveL- A
senaation in the epigastrium and the- side of the abdomen, 88 ifeomething were
tom offand &lien down. - Pulsation in the abdomen. - SeDII8tion of eoldneu or
burning in the abdomen.- Enteritis. - Hard tuber'cle1 i1l the obdomen, u (Joom
internal induration& - Sorenea of the abdominal museles, increased by move-
ment and touch. - Conatant production and obstruction of flatulency, with an
audible roUiR!f.and rumbliR/f in the abdomen. - Copious discharge of burning hot,
or very o.ffenlive flliRd. - ~ful flatulent urgency in the rectum, without die-
charge.
Conltipation of the mo~t obltinate fri?atl. - Conatant ineffectual efforts to evac-
uate.-~iecous, hard ilifficult •tool,frequently clotty, like 1heep'• ilUR!f.- Dysen-
teric stool&- Painful, frequently veey offensive, aleo long continued diarrhma, of
a yeUowieh color. - Bloody diarrhma. - Painful retraction and 00n1triction ofthe
~- Prolapeua ani.
Retmtioll ofwritw.- OOiicult cJillcqe, only bJ drope.- S&raapria.- Fre-
Digitized by Coogle
Plumbum.- Potass:e carbonas.
quent, increased urinal diecharge.-Watery, or reddiah, fiery, turbid, al80 thick
urine.- Uretrorrhagia.
The genitals (penie and eerotum) inflamed and swollen.-Vibration and con•
•triction in the tuticlu, attended with twitching in the spermatic cord. - EzcN-
Ii.,tly irritable •eZtUJl duire,,with many erection& snd •emiul emiuiou. -In•
sufficient discharge ofsemen.during coition.- (Impotence!)
Leuoorrh<ll8.- AbortuS.
' ·,.\ ~·; .......
Obstruction of the nose:.:...:.ftirich viscid mucus in the noae, which only through
the choana can be dileharg'ed: ~ Deftuxinn ofa watery mucus from the noee:
HCHJr.ene••, MUl roughne•• ·of ~ larynz. - Aphonia. - Conetrietion of the
loryn:.c.- Expectoration of much viscid, pellucid, or yellowilh-green muc1l11 from
the larynx, ejected by lump&
Dry, convulsive cough. -lijection ofpu.from the c~.e.- ~h toitll • bloody
ezpectorstion.
Difficult, ·anxious, oppreaeive and asthmatic rupirstion.- Short breath. -
Spamwdic tightne11 ofthe chest. - Periodically returning oppreaaion of the cheet.
-Choking rheum. •.
Pressure in the chest, particularly when breathing deep and laughin~. -
Stitches in the chut snd it• •ides, I!Oliletimes with obstruction of the breath.-
Agitation in the cheaL, with snziety Gbout the heart, and a perceptible palpitation
of the heart.
Rending and stinging in the small of the back, back, and between and on the
shoulder-blades. -Incurvation of the spine. -Tension in the nape, extending
into the ear, when mo'ring the head.
Convulsive motions of the anns ar.d hand11, with pains in the joints.- Draw-
ing and rending in the Upper-tmrl8 and fingers. - Weakness and painful palsy of
the arms and hands. - A ganglion on the back of the hand. - Unwieldiness of
the fingers. - Swollen, red spots on the fingers. ·
Drawing in the hip-joint, while lying. - Painful maBGtion oflomene88 in the
joinu of the hip, knee snd foot, particularly when BBCending aLeps. - Pal&y of
the thighs sndfeet.- Numbneas of tile legs and feet.- Rending and stinging in
the thighs and'knees. - Sensation of numbne. in the feet, with difficulty, to put
thein on the ground. - Spasm in the soles of the feet. - Oedema of the feet.-
Stinking foot-eweats. - Crooking of the tot!&.
137. Potassre carbonas.
Duration ofeffect: longer_than 40 days.
Antidotes: C8Jllphora, coffea, spir. rether. nitr.
.A.fier it G718toer well: nitri acidum, carbo vegetabilis, phosphorus, and many
others.
PredomiMnt effect8: Painfulneea of the limbs in every poeition. - Pre&Bing
pain in the joints. - Spumodic crooking oflingle partll.- Drmf18 atl muling
•
Digitized by Coogle
Potass~ carbonas.
poitu in the limbs, chiefly when at reet, with tumefiiction of the parts affected.-
&irtging patn. in tlae joinu, mtUClu and interior orgam. - Swelling and indu-
ration of the gland&-JJrotnical affectitm olinterior organs and of the whole skin
of the body.- Pains'frequently appear at 2 o'clock in the morning, and are then
stronger, than in the daytime when exercising. - Immediately after the pain8,
chill&- Many (particularly the febrile) complaints are increased in the open air,
some complaints relieved by it.- Spasmodic paroxysms andjerking ofthe limbl
and mUsclu.-Epileptic fits at night...:._ Easily hurt by lifting.- The limbe readily
benumbed, when lying upon. - Paralytic affectUm..
' A general sensation of emptiness in the body, 118 if it were hollow.- Aw:k-
wardness and sluggishness. - Faintish weakneBI and tremulomne••• particularly
after a walk.- Weakness after delivery.- Strong agitation oftl&e blood, with
throbbing in all the veins. - Great aversion to the open air and draft ofair. -
Very liable to take cold, chiefly after-over-heating exertions.
The skin painful as if festering. - Burning, or burning and pricking itching
on the skin. - Yellow or red itching burning ~potl on the body, with moistness
after scratching. - Nettle-rash. - Phagedamie bladders. - mueish-red chilblains.
-Inveterate watts.- Herpes.- meers bleed, chiefly at night.
Great llleepinu• in tlae daytime and early in the etnming. - Coma vigil- Late
•leep. - Whining, talking, frightful startling and jerking in •leep. - Delirioul
lleep, witA many anziOUI frightful dream~. - Night-mare.
ChilZ. and thirst in the evening, frequently with tooth-ache. - Chills immedi-
ately after the pain. - Shivering in the daytime. - Heat, i~ the morning in bed,
with pains in' the chest and small ofthe back.-Defective trampiration and itulbtl-
ity to perqire. - Great inclination to perspire, with mental exertion and awak- ·
ing.- Night41Deatl.
Sadness with whining. - Anxious apprehensions and restlessness. - Ealily
frightened.- Irritablefretfulnu• and anger.
Defective memory•.- Misapplying words and syllable& -'Sudden unconsci-
ousness.
Dizzine" and dulness in the head. - Giddim~•, in the morning, evening and
after meals, also when turning the head or body,-Wavering giddi~. -Giddi-
ness seems to originate in the stomach.
Htf6ilache, when riding in a carriage, sneezing and coughing, or in the fnom-
ing. - Hemicrania, with namea and wmiting, intolerably increased by the lea,st
motion. - Violent headache piercing through the eyes. - Premng paim in tlae
occip~tt, chiefly when walking, with fretfulness, or in the forehead with photophD<'
bia. - Rending drawing in the head. - Lancinating paim, particularly in the
· temples. - Congution of blood to the head, attended with throbbing and buzzing
in i't. - Vibration in the head and a sensation as ifeomething moveable were in it.
- The headache is relieved by laying the forehead down.
Jerks, sidewards in the head, with unconscioumeti8. - The exterior of the
head very liable to take cold.- Painful abscesses on the hairy part ofthe head.-
,Scurfy eruption on the head. - The hair dry and falling out.
Bending presaing pains id the eyes.- Biting rasping, burning an~ piMcing in
tJ,e eyu. - Inftamm•tion and redna. of the eyes, with pains when reading at
Digitized by Google
Potass:c carbon~.
eatuHe-itght. - SWeuing qf1M eyu and lids, with diffieulty to open them.- Sore-
net. and·ulceration of the canthi. - ·The eye. glvM togetl&er by matter, ehiefty
in the morning. - Running eyes. - LustreleM, inanimate eyes. - Inclination to
look staringly. - l'VtJVering 8pOU bifore the eye•, when reading and gazing into
the open air.- Variegated colol'll, spots and eparks before the eyes.- Great pain-
ful brightness in the eyes, even when eloeed, penetrating deep into the brain, in
the evening, after lying down. - Photophobia. - The eye. danled bg light.
Pi~ng in the ear• from inride outward.. - Inftammatory swelliDg of the
e&l'll, with discharge .of pus, or a thin cerumen. .._ tneer in the ears. - SoreoeM
and suppuration behind the ears. - lnftammatibn and .weUiftK ofthe parotide•.,;___
Peculiar acuteness ol hearing, in the evening, when lying.-DuU, .,Uk hearing.
- Singing, tiDgling and buzzing in the eftJ'8.
Swelling of the DO!e, with redness and a burning ·pain. - Red nose, with
many pimples on it. - UlceratiOn of the interior qf the·fW8e. - Epistaxis in the
morning. - Dulneu ofameUing.
· Yellmo-colored, pale and miserable countenanee, with sunken eyes and blueisb
circles around them. - Strong redness of the countenance altematiDg with pale-
De88. - Rending in the facial bones. - Flwmes of heat in the me".- Bloatetlneu .
qftheface. - Eruption of pimples in the face, with thiclmei• and redneu ofthe
cheeb. - SwelliDg between the eye-brows. - Pimples in the eye-brows. - Old
warts in the fuce. - Summer-freckles.
The lips thick and ulcerated. - Cracked, scaling lips. - A spasmodic sensa-
tion in the lips. - Spasm in the jaws. - Swelling of the lower maxilla and the
submaxillary glands.
'iooth-ache, 0'/llg during mcah, or in the morning when awaking, and excited
by cold (water).- Tooth-ache with paim in the facidl bonu, drawing or jerk-
ing rending, ah!o in the evening in bed. - Lancinating,tooth-acl&e, with swelling
of the cheek. - Grubbing, boring, throbbing and &etting in the teeth. - Jnftam.
mation, swelling and uleeration of the gums.
Stench ofthe mouth. -Sensation ofdryness in the mout'Jt, with a copious col-
lection of saliva. - Soreness and vesicles on the interior of the mouth and the
tongue. - Swelling of the tongut>.
Stinging pain in the throat, 'Y'hen swallowing. - Impeded ·swallowing, as if
occasioned by inactivity of the pharynx. - Much phlegm on the palate and in the
throat. - Hawking up phlegm.
The tute bitter or sour. - Vitiated taste in the mouth....... Bulimia.- Great in-
clination. to $U§'Br or acids.- Aversion to rye-bread, which causes a pressure in
the stomach. - Milk causes uneasineM. - After meals, sleepiness, paleness ofthe
countenance, chills.- After taking any thing warm (pastry or soup), pinching
and revolution in the abdomen.
Frequent eructation. - &ur eructatibn and regurgitation. - Heart-burn.
NG'1.16e1J approaching syncope, ah!o during meals. ,;... Auimu nBU~eG vritA in-
clinatior& to .omit, particularly after meahi and with mental affections.-Vomituri-
tioo in the evening.- VomitiDg (of what has been eaten or of acids) with a
fuintish prostration ofstrength. ·
Fulnue. qf 1M •tomach, p{wticularly ofter tnMZ.. - Pre8IIUI8 in the pit elthe
·ll&omach. - Teuien ·above tbe stomach.- Cootracting .,..... in 1M ...._
Digitized by Coogle
Potass:£ carbonas. 299
renewed by fl'lery meal or draft, or at night, with Yomiting. - Pinching, grub-
bing, ptgciJfK in the 1tomach. - Stitche• -in the pit ofthe_ .tomtiCh and hfpochon-
drel, which interrupt breathing.- Throbbing in the pit of the stomach.
Pain in the liver, as if it were bruised, when stooping.- Burping, pre11ure
and •tinging in the liver. - Prenure and stingi.g in the renal regiqn.
Pains in the abdomen with much eructation..- Pre1nre in the h'!JPOKtutrium,
when stooping. - Strong diltention of the abdomen, particularly after meals. -
Uneaaine11 and heGVineiJI in the abdomen. - Contracting, spasmodic pains in the
abdomen. - Throe-like eolia, with pains in the sacral region. - Lancinating in
the epigciltrium and hypog4Btrium. - Inactivity and coldne11 in the abdomen. -
A1cite1.- Drawing and piercing in the groim. - Copious production. and ob-
ltruction offlatulency. - Defective or e:rce11ive dilcharge ofUlind, preceded by a
pressing pain in the rectum.
Oonltipation, every other day. - Costivenur, and difficulty to discharge the
stool, whtch u too thick 1hapetl. ,..... Inactivity of the rectum. - Ineffectual efforts
to .toot and insufficient discharge. - DiarrhCH, mostly in the evening and at
night, with cutting in the abdomen and great weakness.- Mucus or blood dis-
charged with the stooL- Tape-worm 'or lumbrici discharged.- Anxiety before
encuation.- Itching on the a~w.-Stinging rending, cutting and burning in the
anus (and rectum), allo after evacuation. -Painfully stinging and bleeding pile•.
- Sorenes1 and ulcerating eruption on the anus.
Frequent effort• to urinate, and a lmiJll dilc!wJrge offiery urine.- Frequent
micturition, day and night.- Cutting in the bladder, from the right to the left
side._..:. Burning in the urethra, chiefly when pat~ling water.
Straining, drawing and rending in the glans and penis.- Itching and a bruis-
ing pain on the scrotum.-Hot tumefaction of the testicles and spermatic cords.-
E:teited or defective 1e:rual desire.- Aversion to sexu!\1 intercourse.- Abl!lenl or
too eopiotu, painful erelltiom. - Absent or e:rce11ive 1eminal emilliom. - After
coition or 1eminal emislionB, weakneBB of the body, and chiefly of the eyes.
Aversion to sexual intercourse, in women.- During coition a pinching and
sensation of eorene11 in the vagina.- A constant bearing down to the genitau.-
Burning and stinging in the pudenda.-Acrimony, itching and fretting on and in
the genitals. - Catamenia too early and too weak. - 8upyre111ed men~truation,
chiefly after sodii chloretum (natrum_ muriaticum). - Menstruation too late.-
The fir•t catamenia break forth with difficulty. - Discharge of blood in pregnant
women.-Acrimonious menstrual blood.-During menstruation, an itching erup-
tion and soreness between the thighs.- Gastric complaints, and restless anxious
sleep during menstruation..- Leueorrh~a, wlth vehement pains in the small of
the back, and throe-like abdominal pains.- Yellowish leucorrh0!8, with itcbing
and burning in the pudenda. ·
Obstruction of the nostrils. - Grt~vedo, with 11. yellowish -.green nasal mucus,
-Purulent nual mlleU&-·DryneM of the nose.
HoorH?aeu ancl rouglanut in the throat, with eaealhre llneeDng.-Aphcmja.-
Choking when swaDowiu«.- Sensation ofa plU« in tbe larynL
Co\Jgh from pla7Bag the fidclle.- Hooping•COtJ«h.- Tickltn&' COUfrl.- Dry
COU§h, in the eveaia( and at 11's'1t,~th ~tion in the morning.-SJ-oo--.
o,gitizJd by Coogle
300 Potass:£ carbonas.- Potass:£ nitras.
die eough, with choking and vomiting, chieJiy in lbe morning.- &itches in the
larynx or the chest, when coughing.- Difficult expectoration wilh the oough.-
Purulent eqector'lltion IDith the cough.-Phthim ulcero~a.
Dyspn<IIIL - Short breath in the morning.- Tightneu of the chut, when
walking rapidly, or in the morning. - Spasmodic tightness.of the chest. -
Anxious oppreeeion of the chest.-Obstruction of breath in lhe evening.-Wheez.·
ing in the chest. .
Pains in the chest, when speaking.- 8pam in the che8t, also when coughing.
- Sensation ofcontraction about the heart.- Presaure, burning and 1tinging in
the chest, also when breapaing.- Cutting' pain in the chest.- Hydrot/wraz.-
Palpitation of the heart, also anxious, chiefly in the moming when awaking, with
agitation of the blood.
Pains in the small ofthe back, also after a fult - Sensation as if beaten in the
·back, when at rest.- Drawing pGin in the back, frequently proceeding from l.he
small of the back.- Torpor between the shoulder-blades. - Sti.ffneu of the nope.
- Weakness of the cervical muscles.- Struma.- Hard !Jlfelling of the gltlr&M of
tie throat and in the axillte.- Perapiration in the axillte.
Painful swelling of the shoulder. - Pressure in the shoulders. - Telllion,
drawing and rending in the muscles and joints of the shoulders, arms, hands and
fingers.- Coldness, torpor and ~mlmeu of the. arm., chiefly in ~ld air, and
after strong movement. - PowerlP.1111e11 of the e1nn1 and hands, chiefly in the
morning in bed.- Frequent jerking of the arms.- Sillfness of the elbow-joint.
-Disabling pain in the wrist.- Piercing in the wrist and 1iugers, when moving.
-Tremor of the hands when writing. - Cold hands. - Rough, cracked skin.-
Numbness and torpor oftl;le points of the fingers. - Burning in the points of the
. fingers.- Phagedtenic bladders on the fingers.
Rending, chiefly at night in the joints and bones of the hips, legs, feet and
toes.- PJ'e81Jing rending in the thighs and legs.-Twitching of the .m'uscles of
the thighs and buttocks.-l!urning and stinging in the leg• andfeet.- Restless-
ness in the legs, in the evening.- Torpor and numbness of the legs. - Tingling
shivering on the shins.- Swelling of the legs and feet.- Stiftbel!8 .of the foot·
joint.- Coldfeet, in ~he evening in bed.- Numbness ofthe feet, after dinner. -
Offensive foot -lfDeat. - Burning and stinging in the ball of the big toe.- Come,
painful to the toucb.
t 38. Potassre nitras.
DurtJlior& of~ect: about 7 weeks.
Antidote: spir. tether. nitr.
Camphora increases the oomplaints produced by nitrum.
Preiomiunt ~eets: Drawing, reru~V&g, ltmciuting ,am.-Drawing in the
limbs, with a disabling wealu1ess.- Rending in tile limbl, day and night, abated
only by friction.-The most complaints arise in the evening, 4fter midni(!At, and
in the afternoon. - T1ae eomplGints increale by the we of.~.- The eom.
plainta, which origiaa&ed in the daytime, dappear in the eveoins after ping to
Digitized by Coogle
J
Potassre nitras. 301
bed. -l'lflctMUJtitm of interior orgam.- Sudden swelling oftbe.whole body.-
Great relaxation, in the morning, with a selll!8tion of warmth in the face, and
heat ofthe forehead.- Weaker in sitting, than in exercising.
Pricking on the skin 1115 if with needles, mcceeded by burning, chiefly in the
face.- Tubercles in 'the skin, even in the face, of the size of a pea.- Burning
vericleB with a yellowish fluid, whlch burst by seratehlng, and after which, the
burning is relieved.
Sleepiness in the daytime.- Restless night·sleep, like coma, frequently awak·
ing.- Soporous sleep.- Anxious, ~stless dreams ofdanger.- Nigl1t -mare.
Chllls in the' evening, attended with pains. - Chills with thirst in the afler-
noo7l; chllls without thlrst, after headache, succeeded by nocturnal heat, without
thlrst or perspiration. - Quotidian fever, with a drawing pain in the legs.- Pro-
ftue BtDeats.- Morning sweat, chlefly on the breast.
Anxiety and restlessness.- Timidity and fear of death.
Headache after the me of veal.- Headache with contraction of the eye-lids,
continued from one evening to the other, and intolerably increased by bending the
bead forwards. - Headac~e, alternating with a spasmodic rending in the finger-
joint&- Stupefyi'Rg heaviness ofthe head, in the morning, as after intoxication.-
Pressing headache, increased by coffee, and relieved by riding In a carriage•.:_
CompresBion in the occiput, which causes a torpidity of the parts adjacent.- Con-
tracting headache, concentrating in the point of the nose.- Spasmodic drawing in
the occiput and nape, which makes it necessary to bend the head backwards.-
Lancinating headache. - The pains in the occiput are relieved by binding up the
hair.
Painful sensitivenesl! of the scalp.
Burning in the 'eyes, with running and photophobia, chiefly in the morning,
after washing with cold water.- Transient blindness.- Scotomia, from the smell
ofcamphor.- Colored wheels before the eyes. - Rainbow- colored circles around
the light, in the evening•.
Piercing in the ears, at night, exacerbated by lying upon the ears.- Tension,
etinging and rending behind the ears.-Inflammation and swelling of the ear-flap,
with a burning twitching pain. - Tingling and ringing in the ears. - Continued
leqfness from palsy of the auditory nerves.
Burning in the nose, with grubbing and grasping in it, increased by touching.
- 11lflammation of the point of the nose, with pricking paim. - Swelling of the
interior of the nose.- Ulcer in the nostriL- Epistaxis, with acrimonious blood.
Sickly and pale color of the countenance.-Redness of the cheeks, with tension
in them and increased.headaehe.- Rending in the fileial bones.
Drawing, lancinating, or rending tooth-ache, with rending in the head.-
PriclUDg in hollow teeth, when touched.- Throbbing tooth-ache, at night, in-
creased by cold.- Inflammatory or scorbutic 8Uitllling of t4e f!WM• whlch readily
bleed.
Stench of the mouth.- White furred toDgUe.
Stinging pai11 in the lAJWt, with inflammation ofthe velum palati and uvula.
- Nocturnal pain in the throat, as if it would grow togeth81', with obemletion of
the breat,b. '
26
"" .. "".;
Digitized~~Coogle
Potassre nitras.
Anorexia and COI'I8tant great thirlt. - Appetite chiefly in the evening.
Namea, 88 ifvomiting would follow, chiefly at night.-Choking, and vomiting
of mucus with blood.
Pain in the stomach, 88 if something were turning about in it.- Gnawing,
pruaure and fuintish weakness in the pit of the 1tomach.- Vehement contracting
lfHJif7a in the 1tomach. - Piercing in the stomach and serobiculus. - Sensation of
coldness, or burning in tl1e 1tomach.- Gastritis.
Piercing pains in the kidneys.
Abdominal pains after the me of veal, ·mot¢ violent , and chiefly in the right
side.- Strong distention of the abdomen. - Cutting in the abdomen, disappearing
towards evening.-Stinging pains in the abdomen.- Obltructedflatulency, chiefly
in the afternoon.
Hard, difficult, tardy 1tool, attended with. a vehement pre1!81ll"e. - ·Strong ur-
gency to evacuate. - Soft stools, with cutting in the abdomen.- Liquid purging
1tools, also without abdominal pains. - Bloody evacuations.
Frequent urgency to urinate, and a <'opioul dilcharge of a bright urine, with
reddish clouds. ·
Increased sexual desire.
Catamenia too early and too profuse , with black blood. - Before and during
menstruation, violent pains in the abdomen and small of the back.-Thin, white
leucorrhrea, which starches the linen, escaping with pains in the small of the back.
Vehement coryza, with obstruction of the nose and anosmia.
Hoarseness, with roughness and scraping in the larypx.-Tension and cutting
in the larynx, which impedes swallowing.-Phthilis trachealis.
Cough, which awakens one in the morning at 3 o'clock, with a moping head-
ache.- Cough in the open air, when ascending steps, and when keeping back
the breath. - Dry cough, chiefly in the morning. - When coughing, cutting
pains in the che1t, until the phlegm is loose. - Cough with 1titche1 in the chest,
and expectoration of clear blood.- Phthilis pulmonalis purulenta, attended with
excessive sweats.
Tightness ofthe chest, which forbids to lie with the head low.- Oppression of
the chest, when ascending a height.
Straining pressing pain in the chest, with roughness under the sternum, whieh
provokes a strong cough. - Contracting pain in the chut, proceeding from the
back, 88 if the lungs were constricted.- Stitches in the che1t, chiefly when breath·
ing deep, lying down and coughing, with excessive anxiety and oppression.-
Pneumonia.- Strong palpitation ofthe heart,' chiefly at night, when lying in bed.
Violent pain in the small of the back, at night, and in the fliOrntng when
awaking. - Pains in the back when stooping.- Pressure in the lumbar region,
when at rest, chiefly increased by coughing.- Stinging in imd be_t'IDU'II tAe
shoulder-blade•, with obstruction of the breath, at night in a supine position,
relieved by lying on the right side.- Pains in the nape, extending into the shoul-
ders, as if the hair were vehemently pulled.
Rending in tlae shoulder•, at night.-Rending and stinging in the joints ofthe
arms, elbows, hands und fingers, chiefly at night, with heaviness and a sensation
ofenlargement in the hands, and swelling of the fingers.-Numbnessancl tingling
Digitized by Coogle
Potass~e nitras..;._ Potasq jodidum.. 80S
in the arms IIJid banda.- Drawiug.awl reruliJt,J ia tAe Gl'lrll, &otn t.he shoulders
into the 1ingel.'8.-WreJlolliug pain in the wriN and finger~joints.-Weeknessin
the arms, banda and fingere, whieb does not allow of holding any thing fast. -
Spumodie r&lldmg in the finger·jointa, alt.ertming with headache. - Spasm and
torpor in ~he fing«-joints.
Rending in the leg1. - Great wearioees and d"alilittg wealmu1 in the legs,
after a little walk. -Jerking rellliing in the soles of .the feet. - Numbness and
tingling in the feet.- Crooking of the toes.
t 39. Potassre jodidum.
Hali Aytlrio4icw•. - Germ. BydriodtGWr., Kali.
Rending in the limbs.- The most complaints appear when at rest, and die-
appear by motion.
Frequent gaping. - SleepleBmeBB. - Restless sleep at night, and frightful
awaking.
Prevailing coldnu•, and cAUZ. with thirst.
Anxiety and inclination to weep, as if any thing bad would happen, in the
evening.- Easily frightened.- Fretful vehemence and quarrelsomeness.
Heavine88 ofthe head, with peevishn-, which allows ofno rest ofthe head.-
Compressing or dissevering headache, with sensation of chilliness on the spot
affected, which however is hot.- Grubbing or throbbing in one side of the brain.
mcerous pain in the scalp, when scratching.
Biting burning in the eyes, with photophobia.- Indistinct vision.
Rending stinging pains in the ears, with great sensitiveness of the eaJ.'L
Rending pains in the face, with swelling ofthe cheeks.- Pale countenance.-
Dry, itching herpea on the cheeks.
Sensitiveness of the nostrils. - Rending and burning in the nostrils.- Epg·
tam.
Dry, crac~ed lips. in the morning covered with a viloid mucus.
fficerous pain in the teeth, at night.-Tooth~ache, increased by cold, relieved
by warmth.- Swollen gums, with a pricking ulcerous pain.
Burning; painful vesicles on the tongue.- Bloody saliva, with an offensive
taste in the mouth.- Stench from the mouth, as aft.er oDions.
Stinging pain in the throat, when swallowing, sometimes attended with a
pressing, at othertimee with an ulcerous pain.
Bitter or bitterish-sweet taste in the moqth.- Rancid taste after every meal
or draught.- TastelessDtliiS ofall food. - CoDStaDt liability to water-brash, with
loathing ofall food.
Sen88Uon ofemptiness and flaccidity in the stomach, not relieved by eating. -
Creaking, wheezing and clucking in the mmach. -~Burning pl'tl88ure in the
stomach, not relieved by eructation.
CUUing burniag pains about the navel, with .ftaccidity in the stomach and eruc-
tation, when entering into a room ftom the open air. -Painful infia'ion of the
Digitized by Coogle
8M Potassre jodid.-Prunus spin.- Psorinum.- Pulsatilla.
abdomen.- Rolling ia the abdomen, u from eometbin~ alive. -Prearure, ~~
or grasping in the groins, u ifeometbing would break forth through the pudenda.
- Drawing in the inguinal region, as ifBOmetbing alive were in it.
Hard, firm stool, which ill discharged with difficulty. - Diarrh<M., with pain.
as if beaten, in the small of the back, or as if the catamenia wou1d commence. ·
Urgency to urinate with a copious dilleharge, day and night.
Increased menstruation.- Acrid, excoriating leucorrhrea.
Obstruction of the nose, with defluxion of burning, excoriating water.
Dry cough, from a constant irritation in the trachea, with roughness.
Tension and sensation of swelling in the shoulders, when at rest or in motion.
- Crooking of the fingers.
Pain in the hips, which causes limping; every step attended with a piercintt
pain.
t4o. Prunus spinosa.
General anasarca.
Constant qualmi&hne11 with loathing ofaUfoorl.
Diarrhrea.
Ut. Psorinum.
NB. 'floe •r•ploma of lhia Hlllodr willl>O pobliohod in tho "'franoactioao of tho Aeado•r"·
t42. Pulsatilla.
Duration ofeffect: from a few days upwards to several weeks.
Antidote1: chamomilla, cotfea, ignntii fuba, nux vomica.
Used 48 an antidote for : am11nita, ambra, antimonii tartras, beDadonna, cbamo-
milla, cinchona, chamomilla, colchicum, ferri acetas, iguatii fuba, lycopodium,
platina, ranunculus sceleratus, sabadilla, stannum, sulphur, and sulphurieum
acidum.
It an~Wers well after: asa, antimonii sulphuretum, cinchona, lachesis (in inter-
mittents), lycopodium, nitri acidum, rhus, sepia, sulphur, thuya.
After it an~Wer well: aaa, bryonia, nitri acidum, sepia, thuya.
Predominant effect•: Jerking rettding, and drawing in the mtucle• of the
limbe.- Attach ofarthritic a'ntl rheumatic pGim, relieved in the open &U, exacer-
bated when entering into a room, and in bed. - Pain~, a1 from ,_., or a
internal ulcer, chiefly when touching the parta affected.- Strainin~ in the ten-
dons. - Twitching of the tendons. - Acute gout i" llae joint•, wi&h minutely
' ~ .' ' ' .
-:' .
Digitized by Coogle
Pulsatilla.
pricking, drawing pains, and aenaation as if ~ten, when touched. - Paim 1114-
denlg •hif!ing to other paru, tDith 6U1eUing of the part• affected.- Arthritic, red,
hDt twnetactions, with pungent pain& - Complaints chiefly attended by chills,
adipllia, pale countenance and tightne1111 of the chest. - C01llplaint• attacking one
6ide tmly.- The complainU are increa~ed or renewed in ntting, particularly qfter
a long ezerci•e, or when rinng qfter .Uting long, lik~e. when lying on the Wle
or back, and by re•t in general. - Relief by ntting up from lying or by lying on
the aide after a supine position, by movement and walking, by application of an
external pre•.ure, and in the open air. - In the evening and before midnight,
pctient• feel wor•t, seldom in the morning.- Bad coDBequencee of the misuse of
mercury, cinciona, chamomiUa and 6Ulphur, also of the use of some mineral
waters, tat pork and pastry, or wine, likewise ofa cold, or offear and silent mor-
tification. - Bilio118, gtl6tric, •crophv.lotu, rhachitic, icteric, chlorotic, hy•teric and
hypochondriac complaints.- Bad con6equerwe• ofsuppre.,ed mea8lu.- Manyfuld ·
complaints of children and sucking intants, and chiefly of the female •ex, espe-
cially ofpregnant, parturient and •uckling toomen.- Particularly suitable for •low,
phlegmatic, and good-natured waggish temperaments.- Cramps in interior or-
gans. - lnjlam1716tion of interior organ~, with a tendency to nppuratilm. - Va-
rice•.- Congestions. - Distention nnd swelling of the veins. - Incurvation of
bones.- Caries.- Di8eMer ofthe mucom membranes.
General uneasiness and restlessness in the body, which allows of neither sleep
nor rest, with a constant inclination t.o stretch the limbs. -Frequently a trouble-
some pulsation through the whole body, worst when exercising. - Frequent
anJ:iou8 tremor of the limbl. - Tingling numbneas of the limbs when at rest. -
Sluggiabness and heavine18 ofthe limb•, with a di1abling toeakne" and painfulness
of all the joints.-The morning- weakness grows worse by lying.- Apoplexia. -
Atrophy, chiefly with children.- SeMitiveness and aversion to the open air.
Itching in the •kin, mostly burning or minutely pricking, chiefty before mid-
night, when getting warm in bed, very much increaaed by scratching. -Nettle-
rash.- Frequent redness of the skin, even when the parts are cold.- Eruptions,
from the exce16ive u.e qf bacon, attended with vehement itching in bed.- MeMles.
- Chicken-pox.- Fro1tbitten, inflamed, itching limbl.- Rhagades.- Suppurat-
ing woundl.- Readily bleeding ulcers, with a biting, burning, stinging, or with
itching about them and hard ehining redness.
Constant dreamful sleepinet111. ~ Feverish coma. - Late 1leep in the evening
and nocturnal•leeple18neu, from an accumulation of ideas, agitation of the blood,
CODgestion t.o the head and anxious heat.- Re.stle88 sleep at night, with dreadful,
loathsome, anxioUI dream~, frighiful startling, talking, whining and •creaming
in llup. -:- Awaking at night, with unconsciousueas or excesnve anguish. - Fre-
quent awaking and long watching at night.-Jerking ofsingle limbs or the whole
body, when falling asleep.- Supine position in sleep, the legs drawn up, and the
arms stretched ov~r the head, or crossed upon the abdomen.- Night-mare.
Prevailing chillinesr and adipliu, chiefly during the attacks of pain in the
evening. -Chilli with sqnging in the Jimbli, succeeded by thirat, then heat without
thirrt, and finally perspiration.- During the chills and frigor, giddiuess, obstupe-
taction, headaehe, vomiting ofmucu., ~ in the left side of the abdomen.- In-
toleraace of external w&rlllth. - An.rioal paroxy~m~ of heat. - Internal heat.
Digitized by Coogle
306 · Pulsatilla.
without thirst or external heat. - Burning on the skin, with a general pro~
perepiration.- The pulse quick and small, or weak, or almost eupprel!ll!led.- Thirst
before the chills, or after them, before heat. - Quotidian, tertian, quartan fu\'et'l!t
and intermittent8, which begin in the evening, with a bittl'J' or putrid taste in tht=r
mouth, anorexia, hard, red swelling ofone mamma, great -weaknese and defective
sleep.- Relapse, after supprmion of intermittent• (with Chinin).- Typhous,
nervous, putrid and puerperal fevers. - Consumptive fever. -Perspiration, fre~
quentlg only on one &ide ofthe body.- Perspiration at night, and in the morning,
frequently ofan offensive odour.·
Sad, lamentable melancholic temper. - Anxiety and restlessness, chiefly in the
region ofthe scrobiculm, and frequently approaching to an inclination for B'ititidei
with palpitation of the heart and tremor. - Avoiding company. - Dist1'1Ut. -
Fear of death. - Fear of spectres, in the evening. - Timid, pee'!Jish temper.-
Faint-heartednese. - Anxious solicitude about dome1tic affair•.- lrresolution.-
Caprice, longing now for this, then for that. - Envy and avarice. - Hypochon~
driac, morose peevishness, chiefly in the evening, towards eun-set.- Mild, pliable
character.- Rashness.- Religious melancholy.
Inattention and mental dislipation. - Inability, to express himself tJroperty,
when speaking, and omitting single letters, when :writing.- Many and change-
able ideas.- Deliria. - Unconsciousness.
The head fatigued by mentallabour.-The head dizzy and ruuddled, as after
intoxication or lucubration.- Vertigo, as from intoxication , with internal heat in
the head, paleness ofcountenance, chi~tiy in the evening, or when 8itting, also>
after meals, or when sitting up in bed in the morning, and when raising the eyes.
- Giddiness with nausea and inclination to vomit, and obscuration of sight.- A
sensation of'llaCUity in the head, with great~ndifference.
Headache from the abuse of mercury, from a cold, or a vitiation of the stomach
by fat.- Paroxysms ofarthritic headache, with nausea and vomiting.-Hemicrania.
- Pains, as if the brain were dilacerated.- Preseing headache.-:- Great heavi11es1J
ofthe head. - Headache, 88 if the skull would burst, or the eyes fall out, chiefly
when moving the eyes and the head. - Pain in the head, 88 if it were ecrewed
together. - Drawing jerking or shooting rending in the head, chiefly in the tem-
ples.- Lancinating headache, with burning in the eyes. - Boring stinging in the
head, with oi>N:urstion of sight, buzzing in the ears and giddinese.- Co1tgenion
of blood to the head, with a painfully Janeinatin~ throbbing in the brain, chiefly
when stooping and exerting the mind.- Buzzing in the head. - Crackling in the
head.- Headache, rising from the nape, -where it concentrates.- Headache, ir&
the evening, after lying down, or in the morning, in bed.-The headache is chiefly
exacerbated in the evening and lasts through an the night.
Drawing pain, externally on ·the head , when brushing the kair baclnDtJrb. -
Biting itching on the head. - Small tumors on the hairy part of the head, which
ache as if ulcerated.- Suppurating pustules on the head.
Pain in .the eyes, as if they were ecraped with a knife. -Burning prusure or
boring cutting, or rending and stinging in the eye•.- Itching and burning in the
eyes. - Painful inflammation ofthe eye• and Meibomian glandl, also after a cold,
or with newborn illfilnts, and with 6Cf'ophulotu and arthritic individuals.-SweBins
:' '
Digitized by Coogle
Pulsatilla. 301
lltld redneM ofthe lids.- Hordeolum.- Drynen of the eyet and lid1.-Running
eyes in the open cool air.- Blear eye~~.- Agglutination qfthe liM by matter.-
Fistula lachrymalia. - Opacity of tlte em-nett. - Oontracted pupils. - Jrequent
ob6Ctlrstion oflight.- Objects appear pale. - Vani!hing of eight. - Dim8ighted-
ne.., wltich make• it Mcet•ary to wipe the eye•, particularly in the morning after
awaking, after sleeping in the afternoon and in the evening. - Myopia. - Diplo--
pia. -Incipient a11UJ1lrotil and cataracta.- Fie"Y circles before the eyes.- Photo--
phobia.- Night·blindne81!1. . · '
Pain in the ears, as if10mething were pressing forwards in them. - Jerking
rending otalgia.- Itching pr'icking in the ear1.- Congestion of the blood to the
ears~- Injlammation qfthe interior and e~terior- ofthe ear, with heat, .,ness and
swelling. - Painful exostosis of the bones of the ear. - Purulent dilcharge from
the ear11.-Burning biting scab on the tragus.- Tingling, humming, rustling and
buzzing in the ears.- Dy11ecoia, as from obstruction ofthe ears, chiefly after 11Up-
JWelllfed mefJIJles, or from tsking cold in the head by too frequent cutting oft'
the hair.
The noee aches as if ulcerated, inside and outside.- Ulcerated, humid winga of
the noae. - Blowing out blood from the nose.- Epiltam.- Purulent discharge
from the nose.- A smell in the nose, like that ofa long standing coryza.
Pale and yeUowillh color ofthe countenance.- Alternation ofredneM and pale-
nese in the countenance. - Bloated, blueish red fuce. - A auffering caat ofcoun-
tenance. - Twitching in the fuce. -Painful eenlitiveneee of the skin ofthe fuce
to the touch, it aches as if it had been hurt.- Tension in the face, RB if it would
swell. - Shivering on one side of the face.
Cracked, scaling lij,e. - Tightening swelling of the under-lip.- Drawing
rending in the lower maxilla.
Tooth·ache, from a cold, chiefly in the spring, mostly attended with rending in
the ears, hemicrania, chilliness and paleness of countenance.....! Drawing jerking
tooth-ache, as ifa nerve were stretched and-suddenly relaxed, with a minute prick·
ing in the gums. - Throbbing or grubbing pains in hollow teeth, with a drawing
into the eyes.- The tooth-ache ia increued moatly in the evening and at night,
aliJo in the warmth ofa room or in bed, ie easily excited by stirring the teeth, and
after every meal, chiefly when taking warm food into the mouth, and is relieved
in the cool air.- Soreness ofthe gums.- Pulsation in the gums.
Dryness of the mouth in the morning. - Otrensive odour from the mouth,
chiefly in the morning and at night.- Salivation ofa 1111eetilh tfJIJte, with inclina-
tion to vomit.-The tongue, as if burnt and without feeling.- The tongue genow-
illtfu'N"ed and covered with a vilcid mUCUIJ.- Much phlegm in the mou&h.
The throat achea a1 ifit were raw and excoriated, when swallowing, or not.-
Pain in the throat when swallowing, as from a constriction, or internal swelling
of the throat. - Pungent paint in the throat, with pressure and straining when
swallowing.- Inflammation of th~ throat, with a dark VRricous distention ofthe
veseele. - Dryness and vilcid phlegm in the throat, chiefly at night and in the
morning.
The tate inlfipid, or putrid, empyreumatical, earthy or pus-like.- SvJeet
tfJIJte ofbeer. - Sour taste, chiefly after eating or drinking. - Bitter tfJIJte, in the
evening and morning, ehiefty wltfm ecrrting, drinfcing, and particultlrly wltfm mtJ~Jti·
o,gitized by Google
Pulsatilla.
et~ting bread, or qfter deglutition qffood and liqtlid&- Diminilhecl *-ate of all
food.- Adipria or vehement thir&t, with a moist tongue, chiedyfor beer, Qr strong,
spirituous liquids.- Averlion to food, chledy meat, bread, butter and milk.-
L9athlng and avel'llion to tobaeco-smoking.-Hunger, witllappetite to food, with-
out knowing which.- Vitiatsd stomach by fat pork or pastry.- Cold caug1t in the
&tomach.by the me ofice-cream, fruits &c.
Eructation, with the odour and tcute qfwhat hal been eGten. - Sour, bitter or
bilioue eructation and regurgitation.- Hickupping, chlefty when emoking tobacco
or wheq drinking.
Natusa with incliMtion to vomit, particularly in the evening, or after meals
and drin. .,,sometimes with a crawling sensation in the pit of the stomach.-
Vomiting Of &Nne or a bilious, bitterish-sour ftuid.- Vomiting of what ha& been
eaten, also chronic, qfter every meal, chiedy in the morning and at night.-
Hmmatemesis.- A.fier vomiting, bitterne&& in the mouth, and the teeth seton edge.
8pa&m in the &tomach, when fasting and after meals, or in the morning, wilh
a grasping and griping sensation, which termiMte& &ometime& with vomiting.-
Paine in the pit of the stomach and the hypochondres very much increased by sit-
ting, with pregnant women.- Preuure in the pit of the &tomach, after every
meal, with vomiting of what hns been eaten.- Pungent pail18 inthe pit of the
stomach, after a false step. - A crawling sensation in the pit of the stomach.-
A perceptible pul&ation in the pit ofthe &tomach.- Gastritis.
Drawing tension, or jerking and pricking, like in an ulcer, in the hypochon-
dres.- Diaphragmatitis.
Abdominal pains after drinking. - Tension in the abdomen, as if it were too
full, with a hard distention. - Abdominal cramp&, also with pregMnt Wom8n.-
Grasping pains, deep in the hypogastrium, relieved by binding the belly together.
-Cutting pains in the abd&men, chiefly in the evening, also with diarrhc:ea.-
Rending and piercing in the abdomen. - Stagnation of the blood in the abdomen.
.;.... Enteriti!.- Great sensibility of the integuments of the abdomen.- Pressing
flatulent colic, chiedy with hysteric women, with a painful evolution and rumbling
in the abdomen, particularly after .upper or after midnight.- Discharge of wind,
with cutting paine in the abdomen.- Fretid wind discharged.
Constipation.~ Difficult evacuation, with painful pressing and pains in the
back.- Frequent call& to stool, also at night, some.times with spasmodic pains in
the abdomen.-Frequent loose or purging 1tools, only ofa yellowish muct.~~, some-
times mixed with a little blood, and commonly preceded by cutting in the boUJels.-
Mucous diarrhrea after measles.- lVatery or greenilh, biliotu diarrhtMa, at niglt,
preceded by evolution in the abdomen. - White stools. - Acrid, biting evacua-
tions.- After stool, a colic-like belly-ache.- Discharge of blood from the anus,
during and besides stool.- Piles with a rasping pain.
Retention ofurine, with redness and exterior heat in the region of the bladder.
--: Frequent efforts to urinate, with a cutting pressure on the bladder, aleo wilh
pregnant women, connected with a drawing sensation in the abdomen.- &ra•
guria.-Incontinence ofurinE>.- Involuntary micturition, with a dripping uri7&fll
dilcharge, when standing or walking. -Incontinence ofurine in bed.- Increeeed,
colorless, clear, or diminished, red, broumuh urine. -A gelatinous or violet, l'l!d,
lateritious sedimen'-- HtMmaturic, with burning in the orifice of the urethra.-
Digitized ~YCoogle
Pulsatilla. 309
Stricture ofthe urethra, with a thin stream of urine.- Burning, when urinating.
- Frequent preeeure upon the bladder with a constringing pain, without urgency
to urinate.- Drawing 'Rfld preeeure in the urethra.- A diecharge like gonorrhrea
from the urethra.
A pricking itching and biting in the prepuce.- Itching on the serotum, chiefty
in the morning and evening.- Inflammation and stDelling of the testicles, also
after suppreesed gonorrhcea, with bright rednel!8 and swelling ofthe scrotum, and
vehemently preslling pains. - Hydrocele. - Rending drawing in the spermatic
cord, extending to the testicles. -biflammation of the prostata. - Great excite-
ment of the sexual de/lire, ahnost like priapismus, with a vehement inclination to
eoition, and many painful, continued erections.- (Prostatic ftuid dieclrerged.)...;;.
Many seminal emissions.
Metritis. - Cutting pains in the orificium uteri. - Protracted, lingering or
suppressetl1M11StMUJtion, with abdominal cramps, and various other coinplaints.-
The first catamenia break forth with dijficulty. - Catamenia return too soon. -
Black, viecid, menstrual blo{)(l.-Before menstruation, a preesing heavineBB in the
abdomen, chillinees, stretching and gaping.- During menstruation, spasm in the
stomach, stitches in the side, prei!Bure in the hypogastrium and small of the back,
with ineffectual efforts to stool, nausea and obscuration ofsight. - Metrorrhagia,
with the diecharge sometimes interrupted, sometimes increased and intermixed
with clots ofcoagulated blood. - The lochia IJ'Uildenly suppreiSed, with a burning
seilsntion offulness in the genitals. - Spurious, spasmodic or too weak throes.-
Defective throes with vehement pains in the small of the back.- The after·pang•
too atrong and too lung contintMJd.- Leucorrhcea before and during menstruation,
with cutting in the abdomen. - Acrid, burning, or thick, painlella leucorrlue•,
like cream.
Obstruction of the nose, in the evening, with diecharge of a thick yellowish
muens in the morning, when blowing the nose.- Coryza, with los1 of ~meU and
taste.- Long continued coryza, with a yellowish-green, fretid nasal dilcharge.
Hoars(!ness and roughneaa in the throat, by which speaking loudly is pre-
vented.
Cough with catarrh, and itching, seraping and dryness in the throat and chest.
- Concmllive, dry cough, mostly in the morning, or at night, with choking and
·inclination to vomit, with a sensation as if the stomach would be inverted.- Dry
cough, by which only a little phlegm is loosened, with painful stitche~:~ in the chest
and its sides.-Humid cough.- Cough with much expectoration ofa bitter, yellow
mucus. - Cough with a greenish or bloody expectoration.- Consumptive cough.
- PhthilliB pttlmonalis purulenta actlla.
Want of breath, with anxiety and palpitation ofthe heart, when lying on the
left side.- Stertorous respiration. - Q.uick, short respiration.- Obstruction ofthe
breath aafrom the vapour ofsulphur.- Short breath after dinner.- Anxious, also
~ic tightnea1 of the cltut, as if it were too full and the trachea conatricted,
chiefty in the evtming (after meals), and at night; particularly when lying hofi.
zontally in bed•..:... Paro:rytm~ ofsu.ffocatitm, at night.- Asthma Millari.
Pain in the chen, aa if it were i11tef'nGlly ulcerated. - Spasmodic contraeting
tlnlion in the Melt, chiefly when breathlu!, frequently with agitation onhe blood
Digitized by Coogle
310 Pulsatilla.- Ranunculus bulbosus.
and inward heal.. - Rending, cutting and •tinging in the clae•t and ite Bides.-
Pneumonia nervosa.- Congestion of the blood to the cheet and theheart, ebietly
at night. -Frequent vehement attacb .ofpalpitation oftJ.e heart, Ulith mmety tmtl
ob1curation ofsight, or with want ofbreath, chiefly when lying on t~e leftaide.-
Heaviness, pressure and burning about the heart.-· Chronic qffectiom of the
heart.- Dericcation ofthe breruta of aucking tDOmen.
Paina in the back and aacral region, 88 from a tenae chord through the spine,
or 88 after having stooped for a long while, with painfullltiflbe&L- Throe11ike
pains in the small of the back.-Darting in the maall ofthe back, and back, chiefly
between and in the shoulder-blades. - Oroolring of the dtwaal vertebrte.- Rheu-
matic dra'~Qing and tenaion in the lumbar region and in the nape, with difficulty .
to move.-Swelling ofthe neck or one side ofthe throat, with pain to the touch,
88 if festering. - Jarring and knacking in the cervical vertebne and shoulder-
blades, when moving those parts.- Itching eruption ofpimples on the neck.
DratDing, jerking, rending, and piercing in the jointa ofthe ahoulikra and the
tJNM.- Disabling pain in the shoulder-joint, when raising and moving the arm.
-Burning in the arm, in the evening, with a sensation oCdryness in the fingers.-
Pressing heavine11 in the tJNM, from the M.ould6r into the fingers, with a •enta-
tion of numbne11, chiefly in the hand.- Straining 88DB8tion of stitlhees, as if
, sprained, in the joints of the elbow, hands and fingt>rs. - Dilttmtled veina on the
fore-arm& and hand..- Drawing and rending in the fingers.- Numbness ofthe
fingers, chiefly in the morning and at night.-Vesicles between the fingem, with
a pungent pain.- Panaritia.
bchiru, also long continued, with a jerking pain in the hip-joint, extending to
the knee. - Paina, aa from fe&tering, in the muscles of the buttocks, legs and
aole1 of the feet.- Drawing and tension in the thighs and legs, chiefly in the
calves. - Disabling pain , 88 if beaten in the bones and muacles of the thighs and
legs. - Inflammatory awelling of the bee, with sudden pricking pains. - Red,
hot ~Welling ofthe leg• and feet, after suppreseed intennittent fever. - Drawing
heavine•• and tirednu• in the lega, with tremor, chiefly in the knees.- V11ricu on
the leg1.- Red burning tumefaction ofthe back and sole ofthe foot, with a piffcing
pllin, when touched or moved.- Painful sensation of numbness, in the solee of
the feet and balls of the toes.- Boring pungency and cutting in the heel.·-Stitches
in the soles of.the feet and points ofthe 'toes.
f.43. Ranunculus hulhosus.
Bal6oar-rool•4 eroe-fool.- Oerm. lfrtoiUf" Bw•rtfwll.
Dura/ion ofeffect: a few weeks.
Antidote: Pulsatilla!
Predominant e.ffecta: Rhtumatic and arthritic, reDding ltmcitulting and bnlil-
ing paim.-Twitohing of the muaclee.- Jerks through the whole body.- Epi-
leptic paroxysms. - Serophuloua complaints.- Indurations. - Icteric complaints.
By touch, mation, stretching or changetl pofttion ofthe boi.y the pai111 art ex-
cited, chiefly on the trunk and in the extremities.- Many complaink origirnJte
Digitized by Coogle
'
Ranunculus bulbosus. , 311
6y the claartge oftke eztenul tempet'tJture, viz.: when entering from the cool air
into a warm room, or vice versa, aJao in the morning and evening, or after meals.
-:Languor and sorenel!8 of the whole body.- Tremor of the limbs, even after a
small vexation.- Sudden fa.intish weaknel!8.
Frequent itching, on different spote of the skin. - Stitches in the skin, which
terminate with itching. - Eruption of bladders, like carbuncles.- Small, deep-
seated, pellucid, dark-blue vesicles, thickly grouped, with a burning itching, and
herpetic, callous 8C8bs. - Flat, corroding ulcers with sharp margins, and attended
by a pungent burning itching. - Horny and other excrescences.- Herpes over
the whole body.
Sleepiness in the daytime. - Late sleep and sleeplesmeBB at night, frequently
from oppression of the chest, heat, and agitation of the blood, but mostly without
any such cause.- Frequent, awaking, at night, and long watchfulness. - Early
awaking in the morning.-Inability to lie on the side.-Vivid, wanton, or anrious
dreams, ofdanger (by water).
Paroxysms of fever, mostly consisting in coldneBB, after dinner, or in the
evening, with pains in the abdomen and other complaints.- Heat in the head and
coldness of the hands.
Pnsillanimity, solicitude, chiefly in the evening. ..:... Fear of spectres, in the
evening. - Freiful irritability and qua"elsomeness, chiefly in the forenoon. -
Anxiousness with much weeping.
Evanescence of thoughts.- Difficulty of thinking.- Mental hebetude.
Dizziness and weakness in the head. - Vertigo, with danger offalling, when
going from a room into the open air.
Headache, with anxiousness and weakness, during meals.- Headache in one
side, above the eye, with a doleful dejectedness.- Pressure and pressing asunder
in the sinciput and vertex.- Sensation ofdistention in the whole head.- Rending
and pressure in the temples.- Shocks in the occiput. - Congestion ofthe blood
to the head.-Headache chiefly originates, by entering from a warm room into cool
air, or vice verss.
A painful creeping or burning pttngency, externally on the scalp.
Itching in the eyes.- Pressure in the eye-balls.-Biting and burning sore pain
in the canthi.- Inflammation and running of the eyes.
Pricking pain in the ears, chiefly in the·evening. -A spasmodic sensation in
and on the ears.
A painful, urgent tingling in the nose.- Inflamed and externally red swollen
nose, with a tightening pain and many scabs .inside.
Heat in the face with redness ofthe cheeks.-A prurient eensation in the filce,
chiefly about the nose and chin. -:- Whirling, S()88lllodic pains in the jaws. -
Spasm of the lips.
Tooth-ache in the morning, when awaking.-A cutting, dissevering sensation
in the molares.
Collection of much water in the mouth. - Salivation. - Whitish saliva, with
the taste ofcopper•.
Much viscid phlegm in the throat, - A ·spaamodie rising .in the pharynx and
0!80phagus.-Injlammatmj, bumifl§' pain. in the throat and on the palate.
Digitized by Coogle
312 Ranunculus bulbosus.- Ranunculus sceleratus.
Tute insipid, or sweetish, or bitterieh·eour.- Bitter empyreumatic taete,
when and af\t>r eating dry food.- Thirat increased in the afternoon.
Frequent eructation. - Sptunwdic hickupping. -Much qualmiehneee, in the
afternoon or evening, sometimes with headache.
Paine in the stomach.-Pruture in the pit oftlte •tomtJCh.-Semation ofsore-
neee and burning in the pit qf the .tomGCh, ae if in the cardia, chiefty when
touched.- Gastritis.
Semation a. ifbeaten in the hypochondre1, also when touched.- Senaation o(
eoreneee in the left hypochondrium, chiefly when moving the trunk.- &itclaee in
the hepatic region.- Pulaation in the left hypochondrium.
Dull paine in the abdomen, with sensitiveness of the bowels, when walking.-
Colicky, wringing, griping paiM in the abdomen, with a sensation u if the whole
abdomen were beaten and ulcerated, when preeeing E'Jtternelly.- Burning .mua-
tion of 110f'ene81 in t.he abdomen, 118 in a lingering inflammation. -Frequent die-
charge offretid wind.
Retarded and hard stool&- Frequent copiotu ~tool~.
Stranguria. - IDeere in the bladder.
Erections and seminal emissions.
Acrid, corroding leucorrhcea.
Obstruction of the nose, particularly in a room, with a sensation ofeorenea-
Copious discharge ofa viscid nasal mucus.
Short, dijficult breath, with opprulion of the clae1t, as after grief, with inclina-
tion to breathe deep and to weep. ·
Pressure in the chest. - Pains in the che1t, tJ8 if ulcerated or rheumatic.-
Burning pressure on the chest. :..... &itche1 in the clae1t and ill right side, fre-
quently deep, extending towards the liver.- External painfulness of the lower
part of the breast aud the pit ofthe stomach.- Pain~ in all the e:tterior parts of
the bretJBt, the intercostal muscles, the pleura, chiefly excited and exacerbated by
moving, touching, or stretching the body.- Adhesion of the pleura.
• Rheumatic pains as if beaten in the whole trunk, and between the shoulder-
blades.
Spasmodic, rending, darting and jerking paine in the arms.- Coldness of the
hands.- Itching of the hands and fingers. - Herpes in the pal1118 of the hands. -
Tingling in the fingers.- Tetter, bladders and ulcE>rl on the finger•.
Drawing pain~ along the thighs.- Spasmodic, boring pains and itching in the
centre of the thighs. - Knacking of the joints of the knees. - Painful stiffness in
the joints of the feet.- Spasm on the back of the foot. - Pulsating stitches in the
heeL- Sensation ofsoreness and stitches in the toes.
f ..U. Ranunculus sceleratus.
MarrA er0111·(oo1.- Gei1D. Blltr Bdrttrt(wu; Wauerwielo.
Duration ofeffect: more than 5 weeks.
AntUote•: Pulatilla, cotfea &o8ta, vinum.
Digitized by Coogle
Ranunculus sceleratus. 313
Pre~ e.ffeeu: Arlltritic COtltplt.rWa.- Tingling, boring, gMtDing am{
atinging paw, excited or exacerbated totearJ. evening. - Pressing and drawing
pain& - Periodically returning pain& - Convull!ive jerks. - Syncope. ,
~ qf wuiclel, with a thin, acrid, yellowish ichor. - Obstinate ulcers.
SleepleMua, with l'lllltlessnese and jactiUilion, ·qfter mUlnight, aometimee
with oppre88ion and heat. - After midnight, coma vigil,. :with frightful, auioul,
dru4ful dreams. - Early awaking and awake for a long while.
lntermittentfetJer, cfler midnight; general heat and violent thirst, with a full,
eoft, quick pulse, succeeded by general perspiration, chle11y on the forehead. -
Chilliness during meals. ·
Sluggishness and aversion to labour, in the morning. - Sad, doleful humour,
in the evening.
Giddiness with vacuity of thoughts.
Headache, as if the head were screwed together.- Drawing, squeezing, dull,
gnawing pressure in the head, frequently only on a small spot of the vertex. -
Pressing in and outwards in the temples. - Heaviness and semation offvlne~a in
the head, which appears aa ifdistended and enlarged.
External contraction of the scalp• ..:... Biting and itching on the eealp.
Pain in the eyes, when quickly moving the eye-balls. - Frequent pres~Ure in
the eye-balU. - Sometimes, biting in the canthi.- Distortion of the eyes. - The
f!yes running with :water.
Otalgia, with pressure in the bead and drawing in the teeth. - Drawing,
pricking and boring in the external auditory passage.
Biting and itching in the nose. - Prickling in the point of the nose.
A sensation in the face, as ifit were covered with spider-web.- Drawing in
the face, with a 1emation ofcold~•·- Twitching in the face. -A tremulous sen-
sation about the corners of the mouth and the under-lip.
Stinging tooth-ache, the teeth being set on edge.-Pungent and jerking dr~w­
ing in the teeth. - Red painful tumefaction of the gums, which bleed easily.
Dryness of the mouth. -Frothy salivation. - White furred tongue. - Inflam-
mation of the tongue with burning and redness. - Deequamation and cracking of
the tongue. '
A choking contraction in the throat, increased by eating bread. - Burning in
the pharynz. - Swelling of the tonsils, attended with a p1Lngent pain in them. -
Biting and pricking on the palate.
Sweetish taste in the morning, with a white furred tongue. - Anorexia.
Enu:tation, with the ttl3te of what At13 been eaten, after meftls. - Much eruc-
tation, without any taste or odour. -Rancid, sour eruc.tation, in the evening.
Qualmiah11UI, chiefly after, midnight, or in the morning, with inclination to
vomit.
Violent pains in.the stomach, with anxiousness.- Tension, pressure and Sf!n·
8tltion offulnf!u in the pit of the •tomach, increased by external pressure, and
chiefly in the morning.-Constringing pains in the stomach. - Stitches in the pit
ofthe stomach. - 8emation of10rene11 and burning in the pit ofthe stomach. -
Gastritis.
Dull prelll!ure in the hepatic region, increased by deep respiration.- Stitches
27
Digitized by Coogle
314 Ranunculus sceleratus.- Rheum.
in .the hepatic regilm. - Stitches in the region of the spleen, iaeft!88ed when
breathing deep.- Stitches, jerks and prtlNllre in the lumbar (renal) region.
· Abdominal pains with paroxy8JD8 ofsyncope. - Wringing or duB premwe, as
if from a plug, behind the navel, at night or in the morning. - Spumodic paine
in the abdomen. - Griping and cutting in the -.bdomen. - Twitching on the ab-
domen.
Retarded stooL - 1\-equent ctJlll to nGet~Gte, tOitla .oft 1tool8.- Watery, fcetid
diarrbrea.
Drawing pain in the penis. - Pricking in the glaDB penis. - Biting on the
scrotum. - Seminal emiallion&
Frequent sneezing. - Much watery nasal slime.
Dry cough, unfrequent and without exertion.
Oppressed and deep respiration. - Involuntary sighing.
Pain in the che1t, as if beaten, with a sensation ofweakness in it, chiefly in
the evening. - Tightening pressure in the chest. - Compre11ion and pungency
in the che1t and the region ofthe heart, also with obstruction of breath, and chiefly
in the evening or at night.- A gnawing sensation behind the sternum, which
obstructs the breath.- Painful 1enritivenu1 ofthe ezterior of the breast, chiefly
·the sternum.
Pain in the small of the back, aa ifbeaten and maimed...,- Prickling and for·
mication on the back and on the breast.
Boring darting in the fore-arm, extending to the fingel'8.- Boring in the
bones of the hand.- Gnawing in the palms of the bands. -Gnawing, boring and
pungent jerks in the digital bones. - Swelling of the fingers.
Gnawing and boring .in all parts of the lflgll and feet, chiefly in the toe1.-
Jerking TUngeney and tingling in the big toes. - Pungency and burning in the
corns.
1.45. Rheum.
Duration ofeffect: a few days.
----
Predominant effect•: Pains in thejoint1, when moved.- Throbbing paine.-
A clucking sensation in the muscles, chiefly about the joints.- Numlme11 ofthe
limb1, which are lain upon.- Weaknesa and beavinese in the whole body.-
Gastric complaint1. - Particularly suitable for children, chiefly for suckling in·
fants and during dentition. - Scropbulous complaints.
Sleepiness and gaping. - Re1tlu1 night-1leep, with jactitation, 1hrieking,
moaning and stertorous respiration, or with convulaive twitching of the lids, filcial
muscles and fingel'8, chiefly with children.- Stretching the hands over the head,
when &!ling aaleep and in sleep.- Nocturnal deliria and roving abou~ in the bed
with closed eye&-After sleep, beadiU)be, bewildered, offensive phlegm and a pU·
trid taate or odour in the mouth.- Animated, 1tul, anzioul dream~.
I Shuddering, without external coldneae.- Alternation of cbills and beat, with
anxiety and avel'8ion to every thing. - Hea~ on the hands and feet, with coldnese
Digitized by Coogle
Rheum. 315
of the &ice.- &<m perlplf'inK tDitA 11 ,..U ~ chie8y oo the Wreheed and
hairy part ofthe head.
Iodifterenee. - Sluggishoeee and dieinclioation to speak. - Peeviahneee with
iudiuation to weep. - Impetuoua lof18ing for di.ft'erent tlJinsL - Mental dulneee,
u if~y sleeping.- Delirium.
----
Dull cloudiMII ofthe head, aa after intOxication, with bloatedneee of the face.
- Giddiness, with danger offiilling lidewarde, when standing.
Stupefying headache, with anxioumeee.- Preeeing headache, chiefly in the •
einciput, the temples and the vertex. - Hemnne11 of the head, with beat and
rending in it.-Dull straining and 1111ueezing in ~he head.- Tlarobbing in the head,
&equendy rising from the abdomen.- Motion of the brain, when stooping.
The eyea weak and 1U8treleee, with a pre18ing pain, chiefly when looking in·
tently on something. - Biting in thf:l eyes aa from du!Ct..- Painful throbbing in
tAe eye•.- Convulsive twitching of the lidL -The eyes running, chiefly in the
open air. - Contracted pupilL
Otalgia, with itching in the earL-Pre88Ure and throbbing in the eari.-Dyee-
c:oia, aa from relaxation of the tympanum, with buzzing in the earL
DuU drawing in the root of the noee, extending to the point of it, where it
terminates with itching.- Sensation of warmth about the noee.
Tense akin of the face. - Contraction of the musclea of the forehead. - Cool
perspiration in the face, chiefly about the mouth and nose.-Twitching of the
angles of the mouth.
Grubbing pains in hollow teeth.-Painful eensation ofcoldne&B in the teeth.-
Di.ffU;ult dentition ofchildren.
The tongue torpid and eenseleaa.- Contraction ofthe pharynx.
Ageusia.- Sour, or inlipid, 1limy ta1te.- Bitter taste offood.- Appetite for
.setJerallhing•, each ofwhich, dilgtUtl with the fir•t bit. - Loathing ot fatty, in·
8ipid meals.-Averaion to coffee (without augar).-Hunger without appetite.
Natuea, as ifcoming up from the abdomen, with abdominal painL
F'ulneu ofthe ltO'RUJCh, with pl'C88Ul'e, aa ifit were surcharged.- Contraction ·
in the stomach.- Stinging and throbbing in the pit ofthe 1tomach.
Ten.se inflation ofthe abrlorMn.- Preasure in the umbilical region. - Cutting
'pain~ in the abrlorMn, 'which make• it neceuarg to bend together, frequently soon
after meals, worst when standing.- Obstructed 11atuJency with pre&Bure and ten·
son in the cheat.- Clucking in the abdominal muscleL
Frequent, ineffectual urgency to ltool, increased by moving and walking. -
Thin, papeacent, purging •tool, mostly ofa •ourilh odour, preceded and 11/.Cceeded
by a~& ineffectual urgency, and attended with a conttringing griping in the ab-
domen, and shivering during evacuation.- Diarrhtu. ofOOTffined women.- Gray-
ish or brown purgmg stool, mi:ted with m1ICUI. •
lncrea~ed urine.- Red or greenish·yellow urine.-Weakneee of the bladder;
the urine is not di.l!eharged without pressing. - Burning in the bladder.- Ardent
urine.
Tightne. of the cheet, when breathing deep, aa from a weight on the cbeat.-
M&itehee.in the chest. - Clucking in the pectoral m111Clf&- Paina aud stitches in
the'Dipple&- YeiJow, biUMiah milk.
o;g;t,,ted by Coogle
316 Rheum.- Rhododendron.
Sd8ila. in the small of the baek and the hips, which prevents ereet walking.
Darting pains in the arma. - Rending in the upper- and fore-anns and the
.ioints ofthe fingel'll.- Jerking in the ai'Dlll and hand& - Clucking in the joiDts of
the elbows. - Distended veins and heat on the hands.- Perspiration, eometimee
cold, in the palms of the hands.- Twitching of the fingel'll.
Great weariness ofthe thighs. - Twitching of the femoral muscles. - Numb-
, ness of the thighs, when crossed.-Ciucking in the bend of the knee, the IE>.gs and
toes. - Stiffness in the ))end of the knee, with pain when moved. - Pungency in
the knees and legs. ·
f-47. Rhododendron.
Duration ofeffect: about 7 weeks.
Antidote: toxicodendron.
Predominant effects: Arthritic and rheu1711Jtic dratDing and rending in the
limbe, m08tly u _
ifon the periolteum, excited by rough weather, and worst when
at rest. -wrenching pains' and a grubbing drawing in the joints' with redness
and tJWelling.- Arthritic nodes.- Restlesmel8, formication, weakness aftd a dil-
abling sen~ation oftorpidity in single limbs.- Great relaxation and sensation as if
beaten, with the least exertion.-Dropsical swellings.- The complaintsfrequently
remit, and commonly appear in'the,morning.-Damp weather, or an approaching ,
thunder-ltorm excites or exacerbates the complai11ts, likewise rest.
Great sleepineBI in the daytime, with burning in the eyes. - Profound sleep
before midnight, after having gone to bed early in the evening.- Sleeplessness
after midnight. - Sleep in the morning disturbed by pains and rutlesme11 in the
body.
Chills alternating with heat.-Increaseclwarmth, chiefly in the hands.- Fever
in the evening with heat in the head, coldness of the feet, burning in the eyes and
the nose, sensation as ifbeaten and adipsia, succeeded by nocturnal beat and sleep-
lessness. - Perspiration with itching and formication in the skin. - Perspiration
ofan aromatic odour.
Morose, mournful appearance.- Excessive indifference, with disincliDation to
~tny labour or oceupation.
Great forgetfulness.- Sudden uncolll!ciousness.
DU%iness ofthe head, \n the morn{ng, after riling, with sl~piness.- Intoxi-
cation.- Giddiness with anxiety.- Vertigo, when lying in bed, as if the bead
would fall backwards. ·
Headache, increased and excited by the use of wine, or by damp weather.-
Tension in the forehead. - Drawing pressure in the sinciput and temples, chiefly
in the bones. - Stitches in the forehead and sides of the head. - Throbbing in
the bead.
External painfulness of&he head, u if~.- Pain in the oeeiput, u &om
a blow or bruise.- Itching on the hairy part oflie Aeetl, emefty in the~~·
Digitized by Coogle
Rhododendron. 811
Pressing pungency in the margin of ilie Ol'bit of the eyes, with a spumodic
eontraction of the lid&- Preaure in ilie eyes, from one aide of the face. - Dry
. burning in the eye1, from time to time, chieB.y with bright light of the IIUI1 and
when loo~g intently on something. - ,The eyes cloeed by matter.- Quivering
twitching of the lids. - One pupil dilated, the other contracted.- Dimaightedness
when reading or writing.
Jerking rending otalgia..- Rending and boring in and near the ears.- Sen·
118tiO'Il as ifa worm,were in the l!ar.-Continual roariDg in the ears, increued by
swallowing.
Epilta.ril•.- Diminished 11111ell.
A shivering, running over ilie face.- Dry, burning lips.- Veeicles on ilie
lips, with a sensation ofsoreness when eating.
DraVJing rending tooth-ache in ilie molares, excited by a thunder-•tonn or
damp WGther, increased by touch...- Nocturnal tooth.,ache, with otalgia.-Itcbing
on the guiDB. - Swelling, and senll8tion of soren~, between the gums of ilie
lower jaw, and the interior surface of the cheek.
Collection of much saliva in ilie mouth, with drynees of the gums. - Biting
vesicles under the tOngue.
Scraping in the throat, as from phlegm. - Constriction and burning in the
pl&aryn:t:.
Diminished taste! --' Food is tasteless.- Increased thirst. - &on 1tJtiated, al-
though the appetite is good, uneasiness afterwards.
N1J'U6ea VJith inclination to vomit, preuure in the 1tomach and water-brash,
relieved by eructation. .
Pru.ure in the 1tomach, at liight, or after drinking cold water. -Contracting
pre1.ure in the pit of the 1tomach, VJith oppre11Wn of the breath. - PressiDg pun·
gency in the pit of the stomach and the hypochondres.
Spas~odic pain in the hypochondres. ~ Tension in the region of the spleen,
after stooping.- Stitche1 in the lpleen, when walking rapidly.
Diltention of the abdomen, chiefly the epigastrium with a sensation of fulnesa,
which obstructs the breath, in the morning and evening.- Painful obstruction of
&tulency, in the hypoehondres and small ofthe back. - Rumbling and rolling in
the abdomen, wiili eructation and discharge offretid wind.
Calli to 1tool, VJith retarded evacuation. - Difficult dilcharge, even of a soft
- stooL- PapeiCent evacuation~.- Mucous stools.- DiarrluBG after eating fruitl,
or with damp weather. - Throbbing ih the anus. - Drawing from the rectUm
into the genital&
Frequent urgency to urinate, with a drawing seDII8tion in ilie region of ilie
bladder and the groins.- lncrea~td, offenri'rle urine.
Senlation ofIOreRea between the genitall and thighl. ~ Throbbing and prick-
ing milie glan8 penis. - Drawing and bruiling pain in the ttlticlelf extending to
the abdomen and thigh&- The te1ticlel drawn up and ftiOlkn. -Induration of
IAe tuticlel.- Itching, perspiration and 1hriAking together ofthe ecrotum.
Suppreued C41ttJmenia.- MeDIIlrualion too early and too copious.
Ob6truction of cme 1alf of the fiOie, in the root of the noee, chiefty in the
Digitized by Coogle
318 Rhododendron.- Rhus vernix.- Ruta.
~·- Deftuxion &om the noee, with obltruetion of one nOihil and aJlOIIDlia
and ageusia.- Increued eecretion of mueus from the noee, in the open air.
OltG7Tla, tmd !aotwmte••of the traehea.
Fatiguing, dry cuugh, with oppression of the chest, and roughnees in the
tlmlat, chiefty; at night and in the morning.- Scraping cough with a small mu-
cous expectoration.
Pru~Ure iR tM chut, tDith oppreuion of the breath. - Oppreeling cotlltriction
itt tile chut.-A warm ftuetuation in the chest and about the heart.- CongutiOR
ofblood to tM eMit.- Sensation as ifbeaten in the external breast.
Pairu in 1M back and sacral region, as if wrenched or beaten. - Rheumatic
drawing and rending in th\l back and shoulders.- Stiffneu of the iulpe. - Rheu-
matic drawing and teruion in the mUIClu ofthe throat and neck.
Iirowing pain in the arm~, with rough weather. - A sensation in the arms,
118 ifthe blood were stopped. -Tingling weakness and heavinees in the arms, ex-
tending into the pointe of the fingers, when at rest. - Drawing and rending itt.
thefore-arm~ and hand8, as ifP1 the periosteum, w.,-•t when at rert.- Wrenching
pain in the wrists.- Increased warmth ofthe hands.
Wrenching pain in the joints of the hips and knees.'- Galling ~tween the
thighs.- Sensation of coldness and BhriveUing ofthe Bkin on isolated spots on the '
legs. - Perspiration of the legs.- Swelling of the legs and feet.- Drawing and
rending in the leg• and feet, as if in the periosteum, wor1t whm at rert.- Great
roldneu ofthe feet.- Corns, attended with a pricking pain.
f.47. Rhus vernix.
Symptoms of this remedy will be published in the Co,.eapondenUilatt.
It> Bhao raoli~•• aad loxicodOlldroa oee Toxicodendroa.
US. Ruta.
Bwte ,r...ol•"'· - Co1111o• ...... - Germ. Jlnl•.
Antidote: camphors.
It is given alternately with ignatii faba.
Predominant ejfectB: Pairu, 01 if·beaten, or as after a blMD, f#lll or bruiae, in
1M limbl, juintl and bonu, chiefly when touched. - Burning and fretting pains
in 1M perioBteum of the bone1. - Pressing spasmodic drawing and rending in
the limbs. - A sensation as if the whole body were pressed fuD, with oppression
of breath.- Weakness, lauitude and heanne11 ~n aU the limb•, mostly when sit-
ting, with great restlessnei!IS in the legs.- Tottering gait, from w~eas of the
thighs. - Great heav~ess and Boreness of aU the limb•, with painfulness of the
small of the back and lumbar region, after a small walk, when sitting.
Fretting itching on the skiD. - Erysipelatous inflammations.
Digitized by Coogle
Ruta. 319
Mueh gaping and IIU'etching.- Gretlt ~fiUI in the eTening and qftermeall,
with frightful awaking from the least touch, attended with loud ecreaDling.-
Reetleesness at night, with jaetitation,and frequent awaking.
Shuddering, .{rigor and chilU, even near a. warm stove. - Cold handa and
feet, with warmth of the &ee, dulneNJ in the head and thirst.- General heat
with anxioU8 restle8lneu, 88 ifbe would die. - Obstruction of breath and pree-
lling headache.
AnxioU8Deas, like the an~iah ofeonecienee.- Inclination to quarrel and eon·
tradiet. - Dieinclination to labour. - IN•Gt~d 1Dith himleif a~ other•, with
great inclination to weep.
Dizziness of the head, 88 if unrefreshed by sleep. - Vertigo, with danger of
falling, in the morning when rising, when sitting or walking in the open air.
Headache, like a •tupefying P,.e..ure on the whole brain, with great restlese-
ness. - Throbbing headache in the forehead, with dizziness, in the evening, be-
fore going to bed, and in the morning, when awaking. - Heat in the head.
External paim on the head, pricking or drawing, " after a blow or bruue, par•
ticularly in the periosteum.- Fretting itching on the head.- Nodes and abecesses
on the scalp, sore to the touch, originated after a previous rending pain on that
pla~e. -Small ulcers on the scalp.
Pain in the eye•, Uthen exerting them. - Itching biting in the canthi. - Pru.
rure on the eye•. - Burning in the eyes, when reading with candle-light.- Q.uiv·
ering and twitching of the superciliary muscles. - Spatm11 ofthe lith.- Inclina·
tion to look staringly.- Incipient amaurosis, with cloudy dimlighted/aell, and
entire cloudiness at a distance, chiefly when exerting the eye• bg reading mueh.-
Flying spots before the eyes.
Itching, pressing otalgia. - Itching stitches in the ear. - A bruiring pain ia
the cartilage of the ear, and under the oi88toid proeef!IB.
A hard, sharp pressure on the root of the nose. - Perspiration on the back of
the nose. ·
Pqjn in the face, " from a blow or a 1troke, in the perio~rteum. - Spumodic
rending in the zygomatic bone. - Itching and fretting in the face and on the
cheeks.-Erysipelas on the forehead.- Eruption of vesicles on the lipe.
Grubbing tooth-ache. - The gums painful and e88ily bleeding.
1'be mouth dry and viscoU&
Pain in the throat, 88 from a node behind the palate, when swallowing l!aliva.
-Sensation ofsoreness and pre~re on the velum palau, when swallowing.
Food tutes coarse, dry and insipid.- Much thirst for cold water, in the after·
noon.- Aversion to eat, with the first bit, attended with a sensation offulne~~~
and satiety in the epigastrium; the appetite being at other times good enough.
Eructation of mere wind, or with the tute ofwhat hR8 been eaten.-Hickup-
ping when smoking tobacco.
Burning, or pressing gnatDing pain~ in the 1tornach. -A rending pung~ncy
in the pit of the stomach. .
A gnawing pre..ure in the hepatk region. - Throbbing and thrusting in tbe
left hypochondrium.
Senlation a1 if betJten in the abdomen, with a grubbing pain in the lumbar
,.
Digitized by Coogle
,
Ruta. - Sabadilla.
region. - Preesing griping in the abdomen. - Cuu.ing griping in the !~idee of the
abdomen. - PaiiUI, darting upwards from the abdomen,·when Bitting do.wo. -
SeiU!ation ofeoldneee or heat and hurtling in the abdomen. - Stitchea in the ·ab-
dominal mW!Clee, which make It nece.ary to retract the abdomen.
Dijficvlt etHJCUGtion, dieeharged only after pl'Naing strongly, ae from inactivity
of the rectum.- Small, hard, crumbliog &too~ like llheep-dung.- Blood dje..
charged with the stooL- P~lapsus recti, with the stooL-Rending in the rectum.
Frequently .uddm CGlll to uri1aGte, with preM\U'e on the bladder and a IIID8Il
diaoharge.- Pr61nre on the bladder and urgency, eometimea after or beeideemic-
turition. - Frequent copious micturition.
Increased sexual desire.-Seminal emissions.- S~ty.
Cough in the evening, .after lying down, with copious expectoration ofa viscid
phlegm and tendency to vomit. - Groaning cough, at night, with a scraping sen·
sation in the chest.
Short breath, with tightnes1 ofthe che1t.
Prenure in the che1t, with a sensation offulnesa in it.- Compresllion of the
lower part of the breast at night. - Stitche1 in the chell, with obstruction ofbreath,
chiefly when ascending steps.- Sensation ofcoldness or heat in the chest.
Pain in the back and sacral region, as ifbeaten, frequently with ob8truction of
breath.- Drawing in the nape and shoulder-blades.
Wrenching pain in the joints of the shoulder, chiefly when resting or lying on
the arms. - Jerks in the upper-arms, as if in the bones. - Dull rending in the
brachial bones and joints of the elbow. - Pain in the joint ofthe elbow as after a
blotc. - Pain as if beaten in the fore-armtl and bones and joints of the hands.-
Pressing, spasmodic drawing and rending in the fore-arms, bands and fingers.-
Wrenching ofthe un-Ut.
Spasmodic drawing in the thighs, extending into the hip-joint and 8111all of the
back. - Semation as if beaten in the joints ofthe hips andfemoral bones, chiefly
when touched or stretched. - lVeakne11 in the thigh-bone•, when rising from sit-
ting, as if they were broken.- Tremulom weakne88 and disabling 4eavineee of
the knees and legs, which prevents standing firmly. - The knee• giving way,
chiefly when descending steps.- Wrenching of the joint ofthe foot.- Burning
fretting pain in the bones of the foot, not permitting one, to step on the ground.
Ug. Sabadilla.
Duration ofeffect: about 3 weeks.
·Antidote.: camphora, pulsatilla.
Predominant effect•: Painful drawitJK mthe limb•, as ifin the marrow ofthe
bones, with inclination to stretch the limbe, reHeved by rest. - Scraping tmd cut•
tmg, as with a knife, in the 6onu, cbiefty in the capita and oondyH, worse when
touched, relieved by a quick motion ofthe part aft'ected. - Throbbing, dull pres-
eing stitches on clliferent placee.- Tingling in the limbl. - JoftammaWio ofin•
Digitized by Coogle
Sabadilla.
terior organa. - Ooovulll!iooL - Worm-cot11J'loit&U, a1eo IIJpe-u!Of'fll.- Awkward-
nessin gait and motion. - Weaknessand healline•• ofall the limN, particularly in·
creased in tile later howl qfthef~ when also the ,aifll in the li,W. are ag-
firavated. - One feele better when lying down, than when ataading or walkiog.
-Many complaints ariae atfir•t on the right, end then on tlte left Iitle.- Great
.erwiliveneu to cold, whieh increuee the pains and nneomfOrtableneee.
Burning pricking under the skin. ...:.. Red 1treak6, 1p0U and poim. on different
p1acee of th~ skin, more .u.tiftguilluJble in cold cir.
Great lleepineu in the daytime, with eonetant gaping aad stretching of the
limbe. - Late sleep from abundance of thoughtL- Slumber in the evening, dlll"-
iog which the mind ie eurted by ·cillferent lltrange thoughtL-Relltleas, unrefresb;.
ing sleep at night.
FeJJer 1Dithout thirlt, .!1tDit1 chilli, and llingle paroxy81D8 ofhea&, which are
more percept.ible in the mee and on the bauds, than on the other parts of the body.
- ChilU, or e~eraal coldneu tDith ihalting ofthe limb& without chills, onlg10ith.
a 1111t.1U thirat or no thir1t at all, su~ded by heat with a smaU thirat, and with a
8imultaneoua or eueeeeding perspiration.- During the chills, pain in the upper
ribs, dry sp8811lodic cough, rending.in all the limbe and bones.:-- During beat, de-
liria, gaping .and stretching. - Sleep, during perspiration.- Quotidian,.and ter-
tian feverS, or quartan fevers oflong standing, regularly commencing at the eame
lwur, with anorexia, pre81!8ng dietention of the stomach, pain in the chest, cough,
weaknese, chilliness and thirst batween chills and heat.
An.rietg tmd snguiM tDilh gre4t rutlemten. - Earilgjftg'AUned. - Fretful
irritability.- Aveniion to labor.- Furor.
The spirits eeem excited, and at the same time, the mind awl feelings depree-
eed, or vice vena. - Difficulty of thinking.-IUurion& offant~J~g, rupecting onu
•eV. as ifthe abdomen were collapeed like a eorpee, the 8tomach corrodec,J, &e.
GiddinMI with nauaea, relieved by layiDg down the head. -Faintish giddiness
with aeotomia, after riaing from llittiDg.
Tightening pain in the head, claiejly tDith mental e:rertion.- Stunning pru-
.tng keadtlche in the ·forehead aod temples. - Painful heaviness of the head. -
WriDging headache, after every walk.- Painful pulsation in the head.- Burn-
ing, tingling, and prickling in the forehead and on the hairy pen of the head.-
Lice (killed by external application).
BWug burning in &he eyes.- PnBUI'e on the eye-balls, chiefly when looking
upward& - Redneu of the margins of the lidL - The eye• run, when in the
open air, 01' gazmg at eomething bright, or coughiRg, and with tbe least pain in
other part&- W~ ofllight.
Pressing otalgia. - Tickling on the ear•. - Burning itching aod pricking on
&be ear-ftape.- Dyeeooia, u ifa emallleafwere put before the eam-HtlDlDiing,
buzzing and eraekling in the earL - A boring eellllltiou in the parotid glandL
A ticJdia&' 1mua1;,. and contractiDg biting in the 1101e. - Epietuie. - Great
sensitivene&B to the odour ofgarlic.
Heat in the face, tDilh burning rednu1, chiefty after drinking wine. - Blue
eirolel arotm4l tlle eyeL - Spotted, herpetic skin of the faee.
Blll'niDg, 88DIBiion of IIOrentlll and itching pricking on the 1ipL - The Iii*
Digitized by Coogle
Sabadilla.
eraeked.- Minute pricking in the lip.-Boring pain in the lower maxilla and the
submaxillary glands. ' · ·.
Throbbing and drawing tooth-ache. - Stinging pGiM in the molcrre1. - The
teMh gettuig hollow. - Blueish gums. - Minute pricking in the gums.
A eensation in the mouth, as if it were sore or bumt. - Minute pricking in
the point of the tongue.- Blueish point of the·tongue.- Collection of much
ftlleetuh tDater in the mooth.
PtJin in the throat 01 from 4 plug or intemal swelling, with and without de-
glutition. - Sen11ation ofconstriction in the throat.- Preuure 4nd burning in the
throat, with and withput deglutition. - Dryn.en ofthe tkrocat. - Long continued
inflammation of the throat. - Oeeophagiti& - Roughneu mul 4 1craping ~en~CJ­
tioo in the throcat, with a continual inclination to swallow or hawk.
NauseotU bitteri8h or aweetuh t01te.-M~h thir•tfor cold,1Dtlter, milk or beer,
even in the morning.- Hunger, with tJVerrion to everyfood, particularly to mecat,
coffee, wine and acids.-Bulimia, chiefly in the rooming and evening, chiefly fur
honey, or food prepared from flour.
Eructation, mostly without taste or odour, sometimes attended with shudder- .
ing.- Pafuful, frequently interrupted erue~tion.- Heart-burn. 1
Nausea with inclination to 110mit, frequently accompanied by shuddering and
relieved by eating.- Vomiting oflumbrici.
A flaccid, uncomfortable sensation ofcoldne&$ in the '*>mach. - Agitation in
the region of the scrobic.ulus, with a 1emation of1orrneu, when pressing on it.-
Frequently a suddE'n obstruction of the breath in the pit of the stomach, with
apxiety. - Sensation of warmth about the scrobiculus and burning in the 1tomcach.
-Gastritis.
A pressing scraping in the hepatic region. - A grubbing drawing in the liver,
with a sensation of soreness, when pressing on it.- Sensation. of-w&rmth in the
hepatic region. 1
Abdominal pain from worm..- CoJl!ltriction in the abdomen. - Outting mthe
abdomfm, 01 ifwith a knife. - Vehement pungency in both the sides of the ab-
domen, which makes it necessary to bend together. - Boring, grubbing, turning
and revolution through the whole abdomen (hypogastrium).-Sensation ofcoldness
or burning in the abdomen.- Spasmodic contraction of the abdominal mueeles.-
Red spots and pOints on the abdomen.
Conttipation.-Hard, insufficient, interrupted 1tool.-Strong urgency to stool,
with a small discharge. - Brown or fermented purging 1tooll, mixed with mucus
and blood.- Griping, rending and prickling in the rectum.
Urgency to urinate, chiefly in the evening, with strangul')' and a small dis-
charge. -Increased micturition. - Turbid thick urine, like clay·water.- Burn-
ing when urinating.
A vibrating and pressing pain in the testicles. ~ Diminished sexual desire.-
Painful tightening erections without inclination to sexual inteJ'COI11'8e. - Seminal
emissions with a flaccid penis.- Crab-lice (kiUed by extemal application).
(Menses too late, but more copious and oflonger duration.)
Concuseiye sneezing. - Alternating obstruction of the,nostrils. - A large clot
ofa thickly, whitish, pellucid naeal mucus ia blown out, without coryza.
Digitized by Coogle
f
Sabadilla.-Sabina.
Hoarse, husky voice.- Bright·ted blood is hawked out from the choana.
Short, dry cough, ~ at night, occuioned by a I!Craping seDll8tion in the
1arynx.-Cough with expectoration and stitches in the chest.
Oppression of breath, u from a heavy weight on the breut.- Difficult, 11wrt
rupiration.- Wheezirl.g respiratiop.
Preaeure in the chest. - Burning in the chest. - Stitche• in tl&e ride of t1&e
ckut, chiefty wlaen breathing or coughing, disturbing the sleep at night, with
inability to lie on the aide.- Pleuritil.- Palpitation of the heart, with puJsation
&hrough the whole body.- Red spots and points on the breast.
Pain in the back and sacral region 88 ifbeaten, chiefly when sitting. - A sen·
BBtion 88 if the thorax were laced together, from the shoulder-blades extending
down into the chest, with a sensation 88 if the circulation of the blood were
checked; worse in the cold air.
Convulsive motions of the arms. - Tremor of the arms and banda. - Red
spots, streaks and points on the arms and hands.-Throbbing stitches in the fore- ·
arms.- Dry skin of the banda.-Crooking of the fingers.- Yellow spots on the
Unger&. -The skin on the side ofthe nails peeling off.
Darting pain in the thighs and knees.- Weakness and knickling of the knees.
- Rending and tenrion in tl&e cal11e1, alllo at night. - Heavinea of the feet. -
Swelling of.the feet, with a painful sensitiveness of the soles.- The eolea of the
feet copiously penpiring.
f 50. Sabina. ·
Duration ofeffect: a few weeks.
Antidote: camphors.
Predominant e.ffectl: Acute and chronic arthritio compltrinll.- Arthritil in tit«
joint~, with a rending stinging and swelling of the parts affected. - Red, 1himng
tumefaction•. - Arthritic oode1. - A stinging drawing through the hollow bones.
-Pressing burning in the swelling ofthe peri011teum.-H~emorrhages.-Cru;,nic
di.euu ofthefemale 1ez.- Jerking throbbing in aU tl&e veim. - General uncoJD..
fbrtablent., 88 after long lucubration.
Itching on the skin, with sorenee&aud ulcerated or BCurfy spots after l!ICratch-
ing.- Burning. in the affected spots of the skin, when touched.
Reltlu1 1leep, with frequent awaking, agitation of the blood, heat and perspi-
ration. - Anxious drf.81ll& - Dreams full of invention and mental exertion. -
Speaking and breathing loud in sleep. - Lying on the left side in sleep.
Sl&uddering and chilli, with goose·skin and scotomis.- Burning heat over
the whole body, with great reatlelliJness.- Heat in the face, with icy cold lumda
and feet.-; Fever in the evening1 at fil'Bt chills, then heat, and then a profuse
penpiration.- Night-sweats.
Dejected, tliscouraged and joyless.-Peevieh~e8s with avenion to speak, chiefty
when walking in the open air.-Fretfulnea with loud whining.-IDcillference.
:Weaknea ofmemory.- Difficulty ofrecollection.
o,gitized by Google
Sabina.
~LOpelying giddinees, with 100tomia aud ~ offillling.
Paroxyeme of artbritie headache. - ~ and ~ in the head, (te.
quently extending from tAe ftwe'llad to tAe ~- DialeTering pain in the .ore.
head and temple&- Raping or pre&ling ~!tinging pai• in the head, frequeatly
through the whole brain.- Grubbing and boring in the head. - Throbbing head·
ache, with heavinees and obetupefiaetion. -The paina in the head frequently ari8e
soddenly, deereaae gradually and reeur 110111etimea.
Tightening pains in the eyes, 88 ifthe mu~eletJ were to short. - lnaniflulte,
luttrele.• eye•. - Heat in the eye,. - Frettiug water, ru1aning from the eye& -
Quivering of the eye.lid&-Cloud• befure the eyes.
Pinching and nipping in the ear.- Heat ofthe ears. - Dyaeeoia. ·
. Pale countenance, with blue cirelea around ~ eyea. - Bleck pores on the
cheeks and about the noee.- Disabling pain and p....ure on the zygomatie bone.
- Stitehea from the lower jaw into the zygomatic bone.
TootiMrcAe during ad lffler muh. - Pre&ling tooth-ache, in the evening and
at night, a iftAe tootA .Aould ~weak in pi«;u, inereued by drinking, BttlOking to-
baeeo and the warmth of the bed, relieved after riling. - Drawing in the teeth, ..
when drinking, eating and drawing in air. - Painfulneae and white swelling of
the gums around a hoUow tOoth. - moeron the gums.
Putrid ateneh of the mouth.- Reddish or white saliva, wbieh becomes frothy
when speaking.- Hemoptylil.- The tongue whitish and brownish furred.
Sore tAroat, IDAen IIDGlloiDing, 88 from a foreign aubetsnee or intemaliiDelling
in the throat, IDitA a cAoking preuure. - Dullatitehes in the throat.
Tute in tile mouth and throat, as ofmucna ofan inveterate eoryza. - Insipid
or fauy taste, or taste of blood in the mouth. - Bitter .tute, al8o offood, chiefly
of milk and coffee. - Longing for acids, chiefly lemonade. - After meals, Sour-
nese in the stomach.
Vacant eructation. - Nauaea with fulneae in the stomach. - Vomiting ofbile,
or ofwhat has been eaten.
Fulnesa and distention in the region of the stomach.- Pru.ure in the 1tomacA.
-&itehea from the pit ofthe stomach through to the back.
Pn.ure in the hepatic region. .
Distention of the abdomen. - Conp.acting pain in the abdomen. - Pressing
.griping in the bowels, as from a cold or as ifdisrrhcea would appear. -Enteritis.
-Senaation as ifbrulled in the abdominal muscles, ht.the evening in bed.
Evacuation of son ftecea at first and then ofbard. -Soft purging.llooll' with
rumbling and a copious discharge of wind. - Bloody mucus discharged from the .
anus.- IMcAarge of~Mod from the anu., after a hard stooL - Pain of the piles.
-Tingling~ the anus.
Retention ofurine; the discharge by drops and burning.- Strong urgency to
urinate With a small discharge.-Copious micturition, also at night.- Peinful in-
flammation of the urethra, with purulent discharge, like gonorrhrea.
A somewhat hard tumor on the back of the penis. - Stinging in the glans.-
Dark rednel!l8 of the glans.- Painfulnetw ofthe pneputium, and difficulty to retract
it.-Swollen, tenae frenulum.-Soreneae of the condylomat8.-lhcrea.ed iezual
delire, with vehement, eontinued ereetioD&
The eexual desire very ~uch increased in women.- Contracting pain in the
Digitized by Coogle
Sabina. - Sambucus.
.l-egion of the u~rus.- Congestion ofblood to the uterus.- Metf'()f'f'htsgia, cbie11.y
tifter delivery, with a discharge of coagulated blood, or of bright-red blood, in-
creased by intervals, and attended with a throe-like urgency from the small of the
baek to the groins.- Too copimu memtf"'UJtion.- Abortm.- Itching or yellowish,
fretid, tliick leucorThma, like starch, chiefty also with amen710f'f'hma.
Gravedo. - Dry tickling cough, succeeded by blood-6treaked expectoration of
phlegm. -
Pressure in the chest. - Spumodic pressing tension in the chest, chiefty in
the middle of the sternum. - Sore stinging in the xyphoid cartilage, increased by
breathing and touching.-Vibration.in the lungs, with a dull crepitating sound. -
Augmented, extended palpitation of the heart. - Stitches externally on the chest
and in the clavicula. -.Swe~ng of the female breasts. - A voluptuous itching in
the nipples.
Pt·essing drawing pains in the small of the back, extending to the groins. -
Pressing rendi~ and stinging in.the doraal vertebrm. - Sensation as if beaten in
the C(lrvical muscles and vertebrm.
Wrenching pain in the joints of the shoulders and hands.- Presaing rending
and stinging in the upper· and fore-arms and fingers. - Arthritic ltijffii!BB and
11tDeUing of the tm'ilt, with rending and stinging. - Drawing and rending in the
bones of the hand.- Weakness of the hand, when writing.- Crooking of the
fingers.
A stinging painful abscess on the buttock. -Darting pai111 in the hip-joint1,
when treading on the ground.-Urgency and drawing in the thighs and knees.-
Rending tension in the thighs, with a sensation as if the muscles were too short,
when cowering.- A pulpoU11Uppurating ulcer on the 1hin-bone.- Pressing
rending in the bones of the foot. - Podagra, with red shi1ring 1r«Uing ofthe big
toe and boring stinging pains.
15 t. Sambucus.
Duration ofeffect: a few hours.
Used as an ant1dote for arsenic.
General agitation of the blood, in the evening, after lying down, with a trem-
ulous sensation.-Frequently a sudden drawing on the whole surface of the body,
when sitting.- The most complaints appear when at rest, and disappear after
motion.
Sleepinu• without sleep. - Frequent frightful awaking, with anxiety, tremor,
and obstruction of the breath almost suffocating. - Slumbering with the eyes and
mouth partially opened.-.Wanton dreams.
Chilly shivering with icy cold hands and feet, and a minute prickling in the
skin.- Sb.akipg chills before going to bed.- Intolerable heat without thir1t, with
reluctance to be uncovered.- Intermittent fever, with \ezce11ively profme per6pi·
ration, chiefly at night.
28
o;9;t;: ed by Google
•
Sambucus.
Omit li~Jbi~Uf to befriKAtmed.- Pemmneee, every thing makes ad~
imprel!llion.
Delirifl, &om·time to time, with horrible visiOns.
Dizzy cloudineel of the head, chiefly when moved.
Headache, 88 from intoxication.- Tension in the bead, when moved, as if
water were in it.-Preeeure and dieee-iering pain in the head.- Pre•ring rmlling
AeadGche in the forehead and·temples.- Sudden jerks through the brain. -Grub-
bing pain in the vertex. ·
The pupils at first centracted, then dilated.
Darting and IIJI88Dlodic paine in the ears.- Itching tingling in the ears.
The no.e u if benumbed, with itching on its ridge. - CongeiRion ofthe blood
towards the noee, with eensation ofbeavinet!lll in the point ofit.
The face livid and bloated. - Sensation of torpor and ,tension in the cheek&;
88 from a swelling.- Red burning spots on the cheeks.- A gnawblg pretii!UJ'e in
the upper maxilla.
Tooth-ache, rending and darting in all the teeth, and with a sen~&tion of
ewelling in the cheek.
An itching tingling in the throat.- Thirst, without 88Vour of the liquids.--
Vomiting, in the morning, first of the milk made use of; mixed with mucWI, then
of bile.
Pressure in the stomacb.-Minute stitches below the stomach, increased when
pret!llling on it. .
Griping in the abdomen, 88 from a cold, with diecherge offtatulency.-Stitches
in the left hypogastrium. - Spasmodic rending, stinging and griping in the ab-
dominal muscles.
Frequent urgency to urintJte, with a copiom dilch(lrge, also at night.- Bright-
yeUow urine•._ The urine discharged with a thin stream.
• Menttruation too profme.
Hoareenees, occasioned by much vi.ecid phlegm in the larynx.- Tracheitis.-
Croup.- Angina pectoril.
Deep, rough, hoUow cough, with restlessness ancl thirst.- Parozy11111 of
tuffocating cough, with •creaming, in children.
Wheezing, whittling and quick retpiration.-Obstruction ofthe breath, when
lying down.- NocturnallptU11!odic paroxysmA oftuffocation, with weeping, great
restlessness, ancl flinging about with the hands. -Choking rheum.- Althma
Millari.
Opprt'!!Sion of the chest, With stitches in the side or pressure below the ster•
num.- Sudden contracting eensation in the sides of the chest.
Drawing pressure in the small ofthe back.- Cutting jerks in the small of the
back.-Prestute in the middle oftke spine, when at rest and in motion.-Stitches
in the shoulder._blades.- Pressing heaviness in the nape. - Cutting deep stitches
in the cervical nmscles.
i>tawing in the fore-arms and bones of the hand.- Disabling hettvinese in the
elbow-joints.- Stitches in the joints.of the hands.- Tremor ofthe hands (when
writing).- Rending~ the finger~joints.
Digitized by Coogle
Sambucus. - Sambuci cortex. - Sapo. - S~aparilla. S27
Spumoclie drawing and darting in the thighs. - The tendou of &he bend of
the knee straining, as iftoo abort.- Sharp stitches in the shin-bonee.-Rending
in the legs aod ankles.
t52. Sambuei cortex.
fte iaMr 6•rl •flk elm-In•. - G-. ·Di• tiuure "i•.,.,.._rlaM.
Symptoms will be published in &he ~bltJU.
f53. Sapo.
s..,.-a-.Seif•·
Symptoms of this' remedy will also be published in the ~t.
t 54. Sassaparilla.
lfallu _,.,.rill•.- B•r••,•rlll•.'
DuratioJa. ofeffect: about 5 week&
Predominant effect.: Prefll!ing rending and darting pcrin~.-Disabling rending
ill aU thejointl and limln, frequently with tremor of the banda and feet, a painful
rending in &he head and griping in the abdomen.- Chronic arthritic pcrinl, with
a·diminished secretion of urine, after taking cold in water, or after a stopped gon-
orrha~L - Bad con~equencu of the mUiue of mercury. - Torpor and immobility
of the limbs.- Thick, also hot tumors.- Great languor, mostly in the lower ex-
tremities.- Emaciation.- The pains affect the eoul very much and depre811 the
mind.
Itching, aZ.o 011er the whole body, chiefly in the evening in bed and in the
morning, when rising. - Red .dry pustules which only itch in the warmth. -
Miliary eruption, when coming from a warm room into the coldair.-Nettle-raah.
- Purulent pimples.- Tetter, almost on every part of the body.- Warte.-
Shrivelled •kin. - Deep rhagadu (in the fingers), with a burning pain.- Ulcen
from the mUiue ofmercury.
Early sleep in the evening. - Sleeplessness at night and frequent awaking. -
Frighiful dream6, with frequent startling.
Chilla day and night.- Frigor, even near a warm stove, of the whole body,
except the face and breast, particularly strong Oil thefeet.- Heat, with agitation of
the blood in the evening, palpitation of the heart and penpiration of the forehead.
Anxiety with tremor of the feet.- Moroee peevishness, with disinclination to
labour.- Fretful and taking every thing wrong.- Changeable humor.
Giddiness, when looking long at one thing.- Giddiness with DBUIN aDd sour
fJJ'UCtatioo.
H....t.chet wi&li D&UIIea and eov vomita.-Pre&lio« or 1tiftgitag, or~­
•titttfi¥heedaehe.-s.,....ue pain ia oae .We ofthe belld, u ifit were ecmrecl
· oigitizedbyGoogle
· Sassaparilla.
together, with obecuration ofsight, lying down, and vibration In the brain caused
by every word spoken.- Tl&robbing headache.-Roaring and buzzing in the bead.
Pressing and cutting or pre8ring, 8tinging, drawing and rending pains on the
exterior of the head, increased by touching and walking.- Tenderness of the
scalp.- The hair falling out.
Pains in the eyes from the day-light.- Pressure in the eyes, chiefly in the
evening, when reeding by candle-light.- Stinging in the eye8.- Burning in the
· eyes and lids. - The lids agglutinated in the morning. - The internal canthi
blueish tinged and swollen.- Dimne88 before the eye8, like a mist.- White paper
seems to be red, in the evening.
Darting pains in the ears. -·Co~traction and presaure in the ears. -Burning
itching scabs on the ear-flaps.-Tingling and ringing in the ears.
Epistaxis.-·A scurfy eruption on, under, and in the nose.
Eruption on .the face. -Itching eruption on the forehead, with burning and
moistness after scratching. - Pale red, rough spot& on the forehead. - Crtl8ta
lactea. - Torpor and tension in the maueter8 and maxillary joints. - Herpes on
the upper-lip.- Itching purulent vesicles on the chin:
Drawing rending tooth-ache, from a draft of cold air, or from cold liquids.-
Tenderness ofthe upper teeth.- Rending in the gums.- Swolle~, sore gums.
Dryness ofthe mouth.- Apbtble on the tongue and palate.
Sore throat, with a stinging pain, when swallowing.- Spasmodic choking,
a1 ifllle throat were con~tricted, with difficulty to breathe. - Dryness and rough-
ness in the throat, chiefly in the morning.- Much viscid phlegm in the throat.
T1&e tate bitter, or sour, or mucous, or sweet metallic, or herby.- Bread
tastes bitter.-Tastelessness ofall food. -After meals, a sensation offasting and
emptiness in the stomach, or loathing, even when thinking of the meal. - Thirst,
chiefly for water, even in the morning.
Eructation and regurgitation, chiefly during and after meal1, mostly bitter or
sour.- FI:eQuent or constant nausea with ineffectual irritation to vomit.
Constringing pain in the stomach. - Pressure in the pit of the stomach.-
Heat and burning in the stomach, chiefly after eating bread,
_ Pains as if beatt>n in the left hypochondrium. - Darting in the left hypo
chondrium.
The af!domen very tender to external pressure.- Spasmodically contracting
colic in the abdomen.- Cutting pains 'in the abdomen, chiefly about the naveL-
Pungency in the side8 of the abdomen, particularly the left one. - Sensation of
coldness, or beat and burning in the abdomen. - Sensation of emptiness, and
.rumbling in the abdomen. - CopioUs discharge of fretid wind. - Inactivity of the
abdomen.
Stool hard, retarded and small, frequently with a strong urgency.- Di.fficult
pai'lful evacuation, with a contracting pain in the abdomen, and R violent down-
wards- pressure.-Viscid, glutinous stool.- Acrid, C4:!rroding purging stools, with
abdominal pains. - Faintishness during evacuation.- Soreness and burning itch-
ing on the anus.
&ranguria, with pressure upon the bladder and discharge ofa whitieh, turlid
matter with mucus.- Frequent urgency to urinate. ineffectual, or with a IIDUIII
discharge only. - Freqwent, copioul tlischarge of • JIGle urine, dar Gn4 niKAI.
o;g~,zed by Coogle
,
Scilla. - Secale cornutum, 331
Deftuxion from the noee, with ulcerated n08trils and much sneezing,- Acrid;
excoriating nasal mucus.
Cough, from tickling under the thyroid cartilage, or from deep breathing.-
Cough, producing a vomiturition.- Vehement cough, with ·,titcl.u, in the ride of
tlae breut, with every single cough. - Cough with a pRinful concullllion in the ab-
domen. - Dry, 1hort cough, with etJef'Y breath. - Rattling in the throat, before
coughibg.- Cough, .nth ezpectoration ofmucu. and short breath.
Quick and anxious respiration, with tightnees ofthe cheaL
Pree8ure in both sides ofthe chest, chiefly when inspiring.- Broad, preseiQg
orjerkiDg ltitchel in the chelt and itllidel, when breathing and coughing.-Con-
gestion ofblood to the chest.- Pneumonia and pleuritu.- Hydrothorax.
An itching eruption on the back. - Stiffnell ofthe neck tmd upe.- Rheuma-
tic jerking and squeezing in the cervical muscles. - Efflorescence on the throat,
painful only when rubbed.- Perspiration in the axilllll.
Convulsive jerks of the arms. - Stitches in the wrist.
Convulrivejerking in the leg1•..-Rheumatic drawing i~ the thighs and legs.-
Burning on the ball ofthe foot,· as iffrost-bitten.- Perspirstion ofthe toes.
f 56. Secale cornutum.
Bli!Tt'"' ur11.- Gera. MwllrrlWII.
Duration ofeffect: several weeks.
Antidote•: alkekengi, camphors, opium, solanum nigrum.
Predominant ejfect1: Drawing, rending and tingling in the limb• andjoint•.-
Wandering,'vehement ~pt~~ic paim.- Burning in all partli of the body, as
from sparks offire.- Contraction of the limb1.- Tonic cramp•.- Jerks and con-
vtdlive motion~ ofthe limb•, mostly appearing at night, also frequently returning
periodically, and mitigated by violent stretching ofthe parts.- Spalmotlic attacb
qfter fright. - Tetanus. - Epileptic fits. - Gastric and bilious complaint•. -
Ariatic and 8p0f'adic cholera.- Atrophy and emaciation.- Tottering gaiL- Syn-
cope.- Great laslitude and 1lugphne11.- Tremor of the limbs.- Weakne11,
heatJine., and torpor ofthe limb•.- Paralysis.- Mortification ofsingle parts.
The •kin 1allow; lead-colored, fiaecid and shrivelled. -Harsh, dry skin.-
Torpor and insensibility of the skin.- Formication under the 1kin. - Desquama-
tion of the whole surfuce of the body. -Petechia.- Furuneles.- Gangrenous,
black, suppurating bladders._;_ Blood-bladders going over to gangrene.
Great 1leepine11 and coma.- Profound, lethargic sleep.·
Vehement chills, with burning heat succeeded by strong thirst.- Great cold-
ness on the back, the abdomen,and limbs.- Cold perspiration.
Dejectedness and fearfulness.- Sadnees and melancholy.- Great anxiety.-,
Fvror, with desire to jwnp into the water.- Madness and desire to bite.
Insanity.- Weakened faculty of tbinkiug.- Mental confusion.- Deliria.-
&meleunell.
Digitized by Coogle
Secale cornutum.
·The head muddled and •~d. - Intoxication.- AUCJCh of~ of
different kinth, also chronic.
Jieod4clae, with a dull painful dizzitiea, chujlg in the occiput.-Hemionmia. ,;_
T1&e laGirfaUin/5 off. ·
Tlae ege-balll tlup retr11etetl into th8 tocketl.- Spumodicelly contracted or
dilated pupils.- Distorted eyes. - Wild, 1taring look. - Diplopia. -Fogs, spots,
and 88 ifgauze were before the eyes.-Weakened sight.-Amauroei& ·
Buzzing in the ears and tlg•ecoitJ.- Transient total deafnea
Ept..ta.N.
The countenance dileoloretl, pok, yelloto, sunken, 1llitA deep·tetlled e,u end
bl~ circlet around them.- Distorted countenance. - Ugly I!)JOt8 in the filee.-
Dark·red countenance.- Swelling of the face.- Formictllion in t1aeface.
The lips and mouth ap88modically distorted.- Trilmm.
Gn88hing with the teeth.- Loolenu• andfaUing 6Ut oft1ae teeth.
Dryness of the mouth with thirs,t.- HtmWptgm.- moody or yellowish-green
froth before the mouth. _... The tongue discolored, brown or black. - Pai.Jifvl ting-
ling in the tongue.- Swelling of the tongue.- Weak,·indistinct, heavy, atam-
mering apeech.
Dryness in the throat. - Burning or wlaement itching i11 the pharynf. -
Oeeophagitis.
Blunted t88te. - Ine:rtinguilhable, violent thir~t. -_ Insatiable hunger, chiefly '
for acids. ·
Loathing and qualmilhne11. - Choking and vomiting of crude, biliom mtltter.
-Readily vomiting.:..._ Lumbrici discharged with the vomits.- Vomitl of mtiCUI.
· - Black vomits of bile.
Pre11ure in the ltom~~eh.- 8p88m in the stomach. - Great paitifulne81, op-
. pression and anxiety in the pit of the ltomtiCh, with an ineffectual irritation to
vomit.- Burning in the stom11eh and scrobiculm. - ·Inflammation and gangrene
·of the stomach.
Hepatitis.- Excessively distended abdomen.- Paitiful colic• with convullions.
- A sensation of intense coldness in th~ abdomen and back. - Burning in the
abdomen. ·
Constipation, with a continual ineffectual urgency.- Frequent purging stooll1
'with waterilh-slimy evacuation•.- Diarrhrea ofa putrid odour.-Much debilitating
tliarrlusa, with a sudden prostration of strength.- Involuntary 1tooll.- Worms
discharged. . .
Suppressed secr~tion of urine. - Difficult1 sparing discharge1 only by drops,
with constant urgency.- White urine, a~ -clear a1 water. -Increased urine.-
Uretrorrhagia.
Menstruation too profme and too long continued. - Metrorrhagia of a dark
liquid blood, discharged chiefly with strong exercise. - Defective throe•.- Ab-
ortm. - After abortion, a defective contraction of the uterus.- Adhelion ofthe
pltiCenta.- Lochia too long continued. - Tumefaction and warts on the orifice of
the uterus, which is partially open. -Congestion of blood towards the uterus.-
Chronic irdfammation of the uterm1 after suppression of lochia or catamenia.-
Torpor, cancer and gangrene of the uterus.- Puerperal fever.
Digitized by Coogle
--,
I
Sassaparilla. - Scilla. ·
-
frequently without any leDMtioa ia the uriaary ~ -Turbid 'GliDe, like
day-water.- Red, sparing, fiery urine.- Oblong flakes in t..e urioe.-Blood ia
the Urine towards the close of every discharge.- Gravel in the lridney..-Caleuli
·in the bladder and kidneys.- &r.ing IDMn uriftllling.- Coatracting epaam in
the bladder.- Purulent diacharge from the urethra, like gonorrhCM.
&rong CO!tor about the geaitala. -lnBammation and rednta of the glans.-
Herpee on the pneputium.-lnctination to coition', with many, aleo painful eemi- ,
nal emissions. '
Menstruation too late·, small and a~rid. - During menetruation, urgency to
urinate, aoreneea in the bends ofthe thighs, griping in the bowelit, grasping in the
. email of the back and the pit of the stomach.- Mucous leucorrh0!8.
Gravedo and oboJtruetion of the nose.-Very thick 11888} mucU&
Strong cough, from a tickling seusation of ulceration in the pharynx, or from
roughness in the throat. ·
Difficult and short respiration. - Great tightness of the chest and oboJtructioa
of the breath, which makes it necessary to looeen all clothing of the breast and
neck.- Spamwdic oppremon ofthe chut. - Frequent deep respiration.- When
breathing deep. a fixed pain in the back.- Offensive breath.
Pressure in the cheat, frequently with short breath.- Darting in the side of
the chest, which makes it nect'f!88ry to be11d frequently.- Palpitation of the heart.
-Tightening pain in the exterior of the breast 88 if too short, when erecting the
body.- ~id insensible nipples. ·
Pain 88 if beaten in the small ohhe back, chiefly during and after stoopiag.-
Formication in the small of the back. - A straining pain from the small 9f the
back over the hips, with the least motion. - Painful pressure and tension in the
back and nape, with a atinging pain with. every movement of the trunk or bead. -
Stitches between the shoulder-blades and in the cervical muscles.- Swelling of
one side of the throat, with painfulneea to the touch.
Rending and pruaing piercing in tlfe upper- and fore-arms, and the joiD&8 of
the hands and fingers. - Perspiration of the hand&- Herpes on the hand&-
Numbness of the fingers.- Pain in the points of the fingers, 88 if they were
festering.- Suppurating vesicles on the fingers.- Dtlep rhogadea in thefirwera.
Pruaing rending and piercing in the thighs, knees and lt>.g& - Weakneas in
the thighs and joints of the knees. - Swelling and stiffness of the knee, with
stinging. - Red herpetic spots on the calves. -Stiffness in the legs, 88 if they
were contracted. -Spasm in the legs and calves. - PainfuUy tender soles of the
feet.-Teneion and swelling ofthe feet, with heat and redness.
155. SciJJa.
ScUl• ,..rili••·- !'Toe •ffl•i..l•fUIII.- Gt... M••,..•it6rl.
Durati:on- ofeffect: from 2 to 3 ;eeks iJ,t chronic C8liea.
Antidote: camphora.
Predominant e.ffecta: Dull rheumatic paine in the whele Wy. ~ 1Jg
ezerciae, mitigated 1Jg reat. - Clucking on different places in the muscles. - am.
Digitized by Coogle
Scilla.
wlliolu aud IJIMIDodic auaek.e. - Induration of the gland& - J1ffltmaf1Uilion of
intemal org.,... - (Dropeical complaints.) - ·Gutric eotnpllrinu. - ReetleeeneeB
in the limbe. '
ltchiog burning on the skin.-Eruption like eeabies purulent&, with a burning
itching.- Excoriation between the limbe.- Gangrene.
Restleee Bleep with a frequent naking and toa1iJ1« abouL
Cbilline-.- The hands and feet icy cold, while the body ia wann. - Dry
burning Aett.t.
A~, with fear ofdeath. - Moening•..-. Fretful peeviabnee~. - Diain·
elination to mental or bodily labour.
Giddine~~~ with na1111ea. - Giddine~~~ in the morning, with danger of fulling
sideward&
Headache in the morning qfter awaking, like a painfully pressing heaviness.
- ·Painful sensitivene~~~ of the upper•part of the bead, every morning.-
Squeezing pain in the sides of the head.- Contraction in the temples.- Drawing
lancinating headache.
Contracting pain in the eyes.- Rending in the eyes, as ifbehind the eye-balls.
-Burning in the exterior canthi. -Swelling of the upper lid. ~ Great dilated
eyee.-Staring look.-Contracted or much dilated pupils.-Turning and darken·
ing before the eyes.
Rending in the ears.
Sore noetrils.- Moistening eruption under the nose, with a pricking itching.
The countenance sometimes much collapeed, at other times of a gay appear·
ance.-Heat in the face, with the least motion and when talking.-Tense, dis-
torted features ofthe countenance.- Cracked lips.
The mouth viscous and fuU ofphlegm.-Vesicles on the tongue.
Roughness, and a scraping sensation in the throat.-Burning in the palate
end throat.- Dryne~~~ in the throat.
Tastelessne~~~ of all food.- Nidorous taste in the palate, while eating.- Nau-
seom .weetuh tate of the food, chiefly of meat and soup. - Anorexia. - Great
thirst.- Great greediness, and bulimia.-Weakness ofdigestion.
Nausea, al80 with inclination to vomit.- Alternation of inclination to vomit,
and attacks ofdiarrbrea.-Vehement vomiturition.
Pressure in the stomach, as iffrom a stone.- Gastritis.
Painful tenderness of the abdomen, with a soft distention. - Drawing and
rending through the abdomen.- Enteritis.- (Ascites.)- Pinching, rolling and
rumbling in the abdomen.- Copious discharge offlatulency.
Constipation. - Hard, insufficient stool. - Diarrhrea of a brown 17IUCfU, at-
tended with a discharge of much wind. - Ascarides, an~ many white filaments
discharged wi~ the stool. - Fretid stools with undigested evacuations. - The
stOol tinged with blood.
Diminished secretion of urine. - Strong urgency to urinate, .nth a copious
uhorge of iDatery urine.- Diabetes.- Hot, dark, red urine, with a red sedi·
menL- HIBtniJturia.- Strangury, after micturition. ·
Contracting sensation in the testicles.- Metrorrhagia.
Digitized by Coogle
Secale cornutum. - Selenium.
Hoarse, hollow voice.
Anxious and difficult respiration, with sighing and sobbing. - Tightness and
oppression of the chest.- Oppresrion ofthe chest, like choking rheum, with spasm
in the pleura.-Vehement, 1pamwdic palpitation ofthe heart.
Tingling and imemibility in the back.- Stiffness in the nape.
Spasmodic contraction of the arm , with a drawing pain in it. - Burning in
the hand&.- Swelling of the hands, with black bladders.- Soft, wdematous swel-
ling of the wrist.- Distortion of the hands.- Tingling in the points of the fin·
gers, with torpidity and insensibility of them.- CI'OOking, distortion and retraction
of the fingers.- Mortification ofthe finger& '
The legs weak and painfuL - Contraction of the legs and toe& -· Vehement
spums in the calves.- Burning in the face. - Distortion of the feet. - &Delling
of the feet, with black bladders.-Mortification of the toes.- Tingling in the &oeB.
157. Selenium.
Gera. S•lrii·M<Iall.
Duration,oftffect: a few weeks.
It amu~ers well after: hydrargyri sulphuretum rubrum (cinnabaris).
Wine and cinchona cause an exacerbation of the complaints.
Predominant e.ffeets: Pains in all the limbe, as &om a cold. - Remarkable
etriiiCiation, chiefly in the fitce, on. the hands and thighs.-Cinehona ca118e8 violent
complaints or exacerbetes the symptoms present. - Great incliJttJtion to lie tlortm
and llleep, chiefly during the heat of the day.-Exacerbation of the complaint• af-
ter 1leep.- lntoleraftCe ofthe draft ofair.
Frequent prickling on small spots of the skin, with a strong inclination to
scratch.- Miliary eruptions.- Long continued oozi11g ofthe 1p0t1 lcratched.-
Fiat ulcer&
Sleepiness early in ~e evening, with coma vigil at night and frequent awaking. '
-Late sleep in the evening.- Jerks of the body, when falling asl~p.- Slight
1leep at night, and awaking &om the least noise,- Early awake in the morning,
and alway• at the lame hour. -Dreams full ofquarrel and unnatu~l cruelty.
A glowing burning on single spots of the skin .(the breast, abdomen, loins and
the side).- Constant alternation of heat and rold.- Great inclination to per8pire,
when walking, or sleeping in the afternoon. - Perspiration, which causes white,
stiffspots in the linen (on the breast and in the arm-pits).
Melancholic religious fitnaticism. - Great talkativtnell.
Great forgetfulness, chiefly with respect to business. - Inability to any labour.
Fatigued by lucubration.- Giddiness when rising.
Headache, every afternoon. - Herulache after the .use oflemonade, wine or tea.
-Attacks ofa vehemently lancinating headache above the eye, with l)ing down,
aenaitivenflSS of the exterior of the head, much micturition, anorexia, and pensive-
neat, excited by walking and strong odours.
Digitized by Google
Selenium.
The hair falling off, when brushed.- Painfulneee of the ecalp, u if the hair
were being tom out.
Paine deep in the 110eket.e of the eyes. - Itcbin« Teaiclea on the eye-brows and
margina ofthe lids. - The hair falling offfrom the eye-brows.
The cerumen augmented, and in that ear,. whkh ia deaf, indurated.
Itching in the noatrila and on the margins of the winp. - Inclination to stir
in the nose.
Greasy skin of the filce.-Twitchift« ofthe &ciel mueclea.-Cracked upper-lip.
Tooth4Cht>, which compeLs one to pick them, UDtil blood comes out. -Boring
painin the m~lares.-The teeth become hiii'Cl and amocKh, andjarring when rubbed.
DryneeB in the throat. - Pain under the root of the tongue.- The tongue
thickly white furred, in the morning.
Taste nauseously sweetish, after smoking tobacco.- Anorexia, in the mol'llinl.
- Hunger, at night.- Aversion to Balt food. - Frequent duire for whillty. -
Hickupping and eructation, after smoking tobacco. - After meals, throbbitl.lf in
Gil the blood-veBiell ofthe body, chiejly in the abdomen.
Pain. in the liver, chiefly when impiring, extending towards the region of the
kidneys, with tendemeee to external Pre&fJUI'e..- Red, itching rash in the hepatic
region.- Violent lancinating pain io·the spleen, when walking.
Constipation. - HBI'Cl stools, sometimes terminating with mueua or blood.-
Somewhat liquid etoola with teneamua. - Filaments, like hair, in the stooL
Diminished aod dark urine.- Retl urifte in tile neaiftg.- Bed, eoenely
grained sediment in the urine. - Re.ultuWJ micturition, ehieJiy after stooL -
Oonorrl&atJ •ectmdsria.
Tickling and itching on the genitala, chiefly the scrotum. - lrapoUrtU, with
wanton thoughts. - Seminal emissions from a flaccid penis.- The semen~
ping, during sleep. - Pro~totic .fluid dilchargetl, by itself, and with the stool. -
Thin semen, without odour.- Weak, slow erections and too early diacbarge of
the eemen, during coition.- Languid and morose, after coition.
Obstruction of the noee. - Defluxion from the noee in the evening. - Yellow-
isb, thick, gelatinous mucus in the noee.
Hoarseness, when commencing to sing. - Phlegm mixed with small clots of
blood is hawked out.
Cough, in the morning, which fatigues the whole chest, with expectoration of
phlegm and small clots of blood.
Oppression of the breath, when walking in the ope!l air. - Frequent deep
breathing, like sighing. - At night, in lying, the respiration is impeded by pains
in the chest, the side and small of the back.
The small of the back feels as if maimed, in the morning. - Stiffness of the
muscles of the throat and neck, which does not allow of turning the head.
Miliary eruption on the fore-ann.- Rending in the hands, at night. -Itching
on the wrist, in the palms of the hands, and between the fingers.- Itch-pustules
on the harid. - Emaciation of the hands.
Itching efflorescence on· the buttocks and the thighs, near the scrotum.-
Emaciation of the legs.- The knee knacks, when bent.-Flat ulcers on the lep.
-Itching on the feet, in'the evening, chiefly about the ankle1. .
Digitized by Coogle
Senega.
-
t 58. Senega.
Pol,lll• mu1•· - n. r•"'•••••Mill·•.rt. - a-. s..,•.w......,.
Durtllion qfeffect: about 6 weeks.
Antidote•: arnica, belladonna, bryonia, camphora.
Predominant ejfectl: DWeaet qf t'M mucmu membrane•. - Inflammation a(
interior organs. - General anuarca.- Particularly suitablefor jlaccid, pletlaoric,
plllegmatit; comtitutionl.- General, great ~entation of tDea.baut, with tremor,
ehiefty in the lowerextremities.-Great·bodily and mental relazation, with stretch-
ing ofthe limbe, heaviness, vacuity and throbbing in the head.- Great tDeaknen,
u iforiginating in the chest. - Syncope, when walking in the open air. - Many
complainta, chiefly those ofthe chest, are exacerbated by rest, and mitigated when
walking in the open air. ~
Bite• ofvenomow animall (110akes &c.).
Great sleepiqees in the evening, and profound lethargic 1leep, 11000 after going
to bed. - Restlel!8 sleep, from affection of the chest, or spasm in the stomach
towards morning.
Frequent chilliness, from weakneM in the legs. - Shuddering over the back,
with heat in the face, burning in the eyes, dyspncea, lancinating in the chest and
throbbing.in the head.
Hypochondriac melancholy, tDith great liability to be dilple~tl. - Great tmZiety,
frequently with hasty, quick respiration.- Hilarity, with irritability, and disposi-
tion to an)Vy violence.
Reeling dizzineiiB ofthe head.- Vacuity ofthe Mad, with pl'eiiiUI"e in the eyf&
- Giddiness with humming in the ears.
Headache, tehich affectl the eye•, il increuetl in a uumn room, tJJUl relieved in
the open or cold air.- Pretring headache in the forehead and 110ekets ofthe eyf&
-Drawing in the forehead and temples into the face. -Congestion of the blood
to the forehead and eyes, when stooping.- Throbbing headache, with prt!llure
in the eyes.
Shivering and itching on the hairy part ofthe head. --Eruption on lhe head.
Pains in the eyes, as if they were enlarged, and pre1ring fortDaf'dl thi"'fJgh tM
orbitt.- Pretture in the eye1, chiefly ,in the evening by candle-light, and when
stooping. -Burning in the eyes, when reading and writing (in the evening).-
Swelling in the lids, with a burning pre811Ur~ and prickling.-DryneM of the eyes.
- The eyet run in the open air, and when looking intently. - Much iruluratel
mtiCUI on ~he lids, in the morning. - Twitching and spumodio drawing in the
lids.-The lower lids are drawn obliquely.-Stsring look.- Opacity ofthe cornea.
- Dimrightedne11, with glistering before the eyes, increaaed by wiping.-The let-
ten, running together and the eyes dazzled when reading.- All objects seem aa if
ovenhadowed.-Shining l!lpots before the eyes.- Photophobia.
Pretture in tlte ear, when muticft,ing.- PainfulsensitiveneM of hearing.
Itching in the interior ofthe nose.- Pm.
-like odour in tM nore.
The facial mUIICles a11 ifmaimed.-Burning veticlel 1m tM anglel oft'M moutA,
and the upper-lip.
Digitized by Coogle
336 Senega.
The teeth painfully tender.- Grubbing in the teeth, when inspiring (damp
cold air).
Dryne11 ofthe mouth, chiefly in the morning and forenoon. - Increased aecre-
tion of aaliva. - Putrid stench ofthe mouth.- White furred tongue;- Buming
on the tongue and palate.
Pain in the throat. 88 if it were raw and aore.._ Scraping, burning and dry-
nell in the throat, with irritation to cough and difficulty to talk.- Sensation of
conatriction in the pharynx.- l'tflammatory awelJing qfthe pharynx 4nd uvula.-
Much viscid phlegm in the famu and throat, which is hawked out in small lumps.
The 8avor of the food is diminished.-Urine-like and metallic taste in the mouth.
- Muc;ous taste in the mouth. -Total anorexia, particularly in the morning. -
Gnawing hunger, with a eensation of emptiness in the stomach.- Great thirat.
Eructation. - Nausea and inclination to vomit, as if rising from the atomach,
with choking.-"-.Vomiting, with diarrhrea and great oppression.
Prearing 3pasm in th'e atomach, also at night.- Burning in the stomach.
Agitating and boring ,Paina in the abdomen, chiefly the epigastrium anq hypo- ·
chondres.- Colicky belly-ache.......A gnawing pain in the hypogastrium.- Warmth
and oppression on the epigastrium, when inapiring.- Dr.awing between the ab-
domixal integument•, as if occasioned by a foreign body; - Flatulency, with
urgency towards the hypogastrium. ~
Tardy, hard, and. Bparing atoola, with pressing in the anus and rectum after
evacuation.- Frequent papeseent purging stools.
Diminution qfurine. - Increase of urine.- ·Urinal incontinence in bed.-The
urine frothy or mixed with slimy filaments, and after getting cold, turbid and
cloudy.- Lateritious sediment, with mucus.- When urinating a sensation, as if
the urethra were glued together.- Pricking or burning in the urethra, during
and after micturition. •
Increased sexual desire, with painful erections.
Slimy leucorrhooa.
Sneezing, with a sensation of soreness in the chest. - Tedious dryness of
the nose.
Dryness in the larynx, chiefly in the morning and forenoon.-Hoaraenesa and
roughness in the throat. -Much phlegm in the larynx and trachea, with obstruc-
tion of the breath. - Angina pituitosa. - Phthisis laryngea. - The che1t sur-
charged with phlegm.
Dry, concussive rough, from tickling in the larynx, most vehement in the
open air.- Cough, with copious expectoration ofa vilcid phlegm.-Expectoration
of pellucid yellow mucus, with tht~ cough.- Phthisis pituitosa. '
Dyspnrea, with a sensation, as ifthere were a 1toppage in the lungs.- Short
breath, when walking rapidly and ascending steps. - Oppreslion qf the chest,
chiefly in the open air, and when bending forward, as ifthe chest were too narrow.
Pressure in the chest, most when at rest, and in the morning, or at night, when
getting awake. -Great tenderness of the interior of the chest, when touched.-
Squeezing and jamming in the chest, with restlessness and anxiety, chiefly when
lying on the side. - Lancinating in the che1t, particularly when coughing and
breathing.-Sorenus in the che•t, increased by external pressure, sneezing, cough,
Digitized by Coogle
Senega. - Senna. - Sepia.
----
. .
337
and motion.-Drawing and burning in the chat.-:- Inflammation ofthe lung•.-
Hydrothora:~:. - Tingling and crawling in the chest. - Strong conge1tion ofblood
to the che8t, unth pullation in i't and agitation almoet.causing syncope.- Vehement
shaking palpitation of the heart.- Pressure and boring in the region ofthe heart.
-The most complaintl tJfthe che•t are wor1e when at re1t, but no particular im·
pediment to respiration.
A pressing and drawing serisation between, on, and under tbe,sboulder-blades.
-Burning and itching under the skin of the whole back.
Disabling drawing in the fore-arms, into the fingers.- Wrenching pain in the
wrist.
Great 1en1ation of weak1te11 in the leg•, tDith dilability in the joint1•.;....Wrench-
ing pain in the hip-joint.
159. Senna.
Antidote : cbamomilla.
Predominant e.ffectl: Agitation of the blood, chiefly at night, disturbing sleep.
- Sleeple•me,, with •creaming and restless motions, chiefly with suckling infunts.
Heaviu'ess in the bead when stooping, 88 ifit were depressed. -,Pain in the
neck, when raising the head. _
Burning vesicles in the angle of the mouth.
Anorexia.- Thirst.- Vacant or watery and na118e0us eructation.- Loath-
ing and inclination to vomit. ·
Colicky pain~ in the abdomen, chiefly with if!fantl. - se'nsation ofcoldness in
the abdomen, with emptiness and nausea in the stomach. -Much flatulency, with
rumbling and fermentation in the abdomen.and discharge offretid wind.
Purging stooll, succeeded by tenesmus and burning in the anus.
160. Sepia.
s.,;. IIICC*I.- rlt<jflice·of 1/tt Cllllle• ~1/t.- Gena. s.,;.,.•Soft.
Duratim& qfe.ffect: about·7 weeks.
Antidote.: acetum, aconitum, spir. etheris nitrici, antimonii t8rtras.
Uled 111 an antidote for: cinchona, hydrargyrum, phoepbas calcis, (881Rpa-
rila). sulphur.
It 4nltDerl tHll qfter: causticum, hydrargyrum, ledum, pulatilla, lliliea,
sulpbm. ·
A,fkr it tmlfDer well: carbo vegetabili8, causticum, puJsatilla.
PrHominant e.ffect.:. n.rting, and prickling pain~ in the limbe and other
parte of the bddy. - Buming pains on different parts of the body.- S~g in
the Jimbe, 88 if tbey were •too abort.- Drawing and rending in the limbs and·
. . 29
Digitized by Coogle
338 Sepia.
join&&- Pains, which are relieved by external wannth.- Paroxysms of pairu~,
aceompanied with shuddering.- &d comeqrmu:es of anger. - Injurious resuits
ofOD&Dif!m. - The limbe (arms aod . ) readily benumbed, chiefly after ma'nual
labor.- 8tijfrt.e11 tmd umoieldine11 ofthe joints.- Readily wrenching and sprain·
ing the limbe.-Eaaily hurt by lilting.-Jerkl tmd twitching in the limbl, at night
and in the daytime. - Twitching of the muscles. - Hysteric sptUfTII and other
compltlints.- Chlorotic affection&- Complaints of pregnant women, particularly
gastric complain&& - Scrophulous di.sea8es. - Swelling and suppuration of the
glands. - IrUJammation of interior organs. - Mtmy complaints are exacerbated
or renewed during, or immediately after meals. - The complaints subside with
efltrJ strtntg motion, except riding on horseback, and 4rt increased when at rest,
and in the et~ening, at night (and in the forenoon).
General painful sensitiveness of the whole body.- Drawing through all the
limbs.- Frequent stretcbi'ng and turning. - Restlessne11 in all the limbl, with
anxiety, which allows of no rest in any place. - Strong agitation of the blood,
also at night, with pulsation through the whole body.- General tumefaction of
the body, with short breath 8!ld without thirst.- Unwieldiness and sluggishness
of the body. - Infirmity of the limbe.- Paroxysms of languor and syncope.-
Tremulous languor.- Weakne11, also only when getting awake.-When walking
in the open air, MOn tired. - Great liability to take cold, and tenderne88 to cold
air, chiefly the north wind.- After getting wet, fever-chills, syncope, and
then coryza.
Great sensitiveness ofthe skin.- Itching on many spots, changing into biting.
- Itching, efflorescence, and galling in the joints. - Galled skin in children.-
Itch-like eruptions.-Brown or yellowish-red, reddish, l1erpetic spots on the skin.
-Circular desquamation of the skin.- (Ring-worm1)-Moist tetter, with itching
and burning. - Furuncles. - Itching, pricking, burning, also indolent ulcers.-
Corns, with a pricking pain.- Crippled nails.
Great sleepine88 in the daytime, and early in the evening. - Paroxysms of
coma, returning with a tertian typus.- Getting awake too early, and long watch·
fulness. - Frequently getting awake, without any came. - Restle88 sleep, tDiti
ttrong agitation of the blood, CORtinual jactitation, reveries, an.rious frightful
dreams, and frequent startling.-Unrefreshing sleep, and dizziness in the morning.
-Wanton dreams.-Talking in sleep. -Nocturnal deliria.-Jerking of the limbe-
in sleep.
The pains are accompanied by shuddering.- Deficiency oftlae natural 1Df!N1Jil&
ofthe body.- Chilliness, in the evening and in the open air.-Attackl of (flushes
of) heat, ehiefty when sitting, or walking in the open air, also after vexation or
when OCCllpied by an interesting discourse.;....Paroxy81Jls ofheat (and ebills), with
thirst. -Constant heat, with redness of countenance and great thirst.- b&tcr-
mittentfetJer, with thirst during the chilli. - Perspiration in sitting.- Much per···
spiration with the least motion.- Night-BtDeats, also cold. - Perspiration in the
morning, sometimes efa sour odour.
&dne88 and dejection, with weeping.- An.riousneu and timidity, frequently
attended with flUBhe& of heat, and mostly in the et~ening, also in bed.- Great
anziety for his health. - Pensiveness. - Great liability to be frightened. -JAUJ
spirit•, increased to weariness oflire.- lntl~e with rt!IIJ*l to .all ~
Digitized by Coogle
Sepia. 339
even to his relation&- Aversion to accustomed busine-.- Fretfwl irritability,
with great inclination to anger and violence. - Quarrelllomenel!l!l and censo-
riousness.
lVesk memory. -Mental di.asipation. - Miswriting and misapplying·words. -
Inability to mental labour.- Difficult course ofthinking.
DizzinuiJ in the head. - Sudden attacb of giddmeiJIJ, when UHJl!Rng in the
open air, and when writing.- Giddineu, as if all objects were moving, or as if
eomething were rolling about in the head.- Giddiness in the morning, when ris-
ing, -or in the ~moon.
Paro:x:y.,.. ofarthritic Aead4che, with namea and vomiting, and a lancinating
or boring pain, which BOmetimes compels one to cry out.- Headache in the mor-
ning-.- Headache, when 1Jhaking or moving the head, al/Jo when walking, with a
sen.sation, as if the brain were shaken. - Headache with nausea every mornillg;
- Headache on 011e ftde, also in the evening after lying down, preceded by heavi-
fleU mtJ&e head.-Pressing headache above the eyea, occasioned by the day-light.
- .DUIJevering pa#u ia the head, frequently when 1tooping, as if the head would
burst. -Contracting pain in the head. - Drawing and rending in (and on) the
head, frequently only on one Bide. - Lancinating headacl&e, frequently on one
side or in the forehead. - Shocks and jerks in the head. - Throbbing headache,
chiefly in the occiput.-Strong COftgeiJt~ ofthe blood to tAe heatl, with heat in it,
particularly when stooping.
External coldness on the head. - Involuntary shaking and jerkiag forwards
and backwards ofthe head. -Motion of the skin of the head. - Itching on the
head.- The hair filllinA' oft:
Paraly.U ofthe eye-lW..- HeavineN and depression ofthe upper-lid. - PreiJ·
sure on the eye-ball/J. - Itching and biting in the eyes and lids. - Pricking in the
eyes, in the evening, by candle-light.- Burning in the eyes, particularly in the
morning, when getting awake. -lnJlammation of the eyeiJ, with redness of the
conjunctiva and pricking in it.-Inflammation, rednuiJ .and 81DeUing of tke lW.,
which are visited with sties.....,.. Swelling in the eyes, in the evening.- Fungus
haematodes of the cornea. -Dry scabs on the lids, in the morning, when getting
.awake..- Scabs in the eye-brows.- Glassy, watery eyes, chiefly in the morning,
on awaking. - Yellowness of the conjunctiva. - The eyu running with water,
chiefly in the morning, or in the evening in the open air.- The eye-lib glued
together, at night. -Quivering and twitching of the eye-lids. - ITUJbility to open
tAe lW., at night. - Dimsightedness, when reading or writing. - Prubyopitt.. -
Amaurosis (with contracted pupils).- Gauze-like and black 1wimming tpOtiJ,
points and streaks of light before the eye•.-A green lustre around the candle-
light, in the evening.- Great semitivenei/J ofthe eye' to the light ofday.
Otalgia. - Lancinating in the eariJ. - Sensation of soreness in the ears. -
Swelling and suppurating eruption on the outside.ofthe ear,:_Herpee on the ear-
fiap.- Discharge ofa thin pus from the ears, with itching. - ·Too delicate sense
ofhearing, ofmusic.- Dyeecoia.- Sudden deafness, as from a plug in the ears.
- Buzzing and roaring in the ears.
The nose noollen and infiamed, particularly the point ofit.-&abiJ'on tAe point
ofthe noiJe.- Cancer on tAe 110/Je,- Sore, ulcerated nottriliJ. -Plugs in the nose.
o,gitized by Google
Sepia.
- Epistaxil, and frequently bloroing out blood from the note. - Anonnie~. - Bad
odour before the nose.
Ptde countenance, with blue circles around the eyes.-Yellowness of&he coun-
tenance.- Much heat in the face. -Pale.bloatedness of the face.- Erysipelatous
inflammation and swelling of one side of the face (originated from the decayed
root ofa tooth).- Inflammatory swelling ofthe face, with thickly grouped yellow
scurfy pimples.- OnutG lacteG.- Black pores in the face.- Itching and eruption
in the fGCe and on the forehead, also like a red roughness ofthe skin. - Tumom
on the forehead.- Drawing paim in the fGCe.- Spasmodic pain and rending in
the facial bones.
The lips dry and peeling off.- Tension in the under-lip.- Yelloumes• and
herpetic eruption around the mouth. - Moistening scurfy eruptiOfU in the red of
the lips and on the chin.
Tooth-ache, when biting together or touching the teeth, and when speaking,
·likewise from every draft ofcold air.- Tooth-GChe of pregnont women.- Tooth-
ache at night, with great irritation.-Throbbing, or lancinoting, or drawing tooth-
GeM, sometimes extending into the ear.-Rending jerks in the teeth.-The teeth
set on edge, loose, easily bleeding and getting hoUow.
Stench from the mouth.-Swelling ofthe interior ofthe mouth.-Stomacace.-
Dryness in the mouth and on the tongue.- Salivation of a saltiah taste.- Pain-
fulness ofthe tongue and palate, as if burnt.- Soreness of the tongue.-Vesicles
on the tongue.-White furred tongue.
Sore throat, with swollen glands of the throat. - Pressing sensation, u from
G plug, or sensation of soreness and stinging in the throat, when swallowing.-
Jerks in the throat.-Swelling and inflammation of the upper part of the throat.-
Inflammation, swelling and suppuration of the tonsils. - Dryness in the throat,
with tension and scratching.-Viscous sensation in the throat.-Much phlegm'in
the throat, and on the velum palati. - Hawking up phlegm, in the morning.-
· Bloody phlegm is hawked up. .
Tute putrid or sour.- Saltish taste offood.- Adipsia.- Thirst, in the even-
ing and morning.- Great appetite, greedine81. -Bulimia, with a sensation of
emptiness in the stomach.- Great longing for wine.- Aversion mulloothing of
food, chiefly meat and milk, which causes diarrhOla.-Tobacco smoking produces
uneasiness. -After the use of fat, a nauseous eructation with qualmishness.-
Weakness of digestion.- After meals, sournegs in the mouth, much eructation,
scraping and burning in the pharynx, pulaation in the pit of the stomach, hickup-
ping, diBtention of the abdomen, perspiration, feverish heat, palpitation of the
heart, headache.
Much eructation, mostly gour or bitter, or like rotten eggs, or with the taste of
what has been eaten.- Painful eructation, with which blood comes up into the
mouth.
QutdmiBhneBI, also in the morning when futing, relieved after eating a few
bits.-Q.ualmishness, with a bitter taste and eructation._:. Nausea when ,riding in
' a carriage. - Ne~usea and vomiting qfter"1116als.- Nausea and vomiting of preg-
nant women, sometimes vomiting a milky water.- Vomiting bile or what baa
been eaten:
PainB in the 1t~h after meals, also in the evening. -Vehement pain on the
Digiti~ed by Coogle
Sepia. 841
·cardia, when swallowing food.-Pain in \he pit eftbe stomach, wJaeR walk.iQg.-
Preuure in the ll01MCh, 88 from a stone, chiedy duriag and lifter--.., or at
night.- Contracting spasm in the stomach.- Pl'888ing lt~ng in ,tAe 1C1'1116icu-
ltu and region of the stomach.- Burning in.tAe•tomach and scnaeulU!.- Tllrob-
bing in the pit ofthe stomach.- Painful sensation ofemptiness in the 1tomoch. ·
Pain in the liver, when riding in a carriage. - Pressure, throbbing and •ting-
ing in the hepatic region. - Hepatitis. - A boring or st.rainiBg lanciftlltion in the
hgpochondru, chiefly with motion.- Stinging in the leA hypochondrium.
Belly-ache ofpregnant tdOmen.- Belly-ache in the morning in bed.-Pres~Ure
and heavineBB in the abdomen, with a 881188tion of distention, as if it would burst..
-Hard distention ofthe Gbd~- Adhesion and bardnese in the hypogastrium.
- Tumid abdomen in mother•. - ABcites. - Abdomitwl spums with a grasping
pain, 88 if the bowels were being inverted.- Cutliag painl in theabdomen, chiefly
after uercise, or at night, with calls to stooL- Agitation, cutting and preuure in
the hypogattriutA.- Painfulnees of the intestines.- Coldness in the abdomen. -
Bumirag tmd •tinging in the ;wdOJMn, near the navel. - Sensation of emptinese
in the abdomen. - Stitches in the groins. - BroWDish spots on the abdomen.-
RolliJtg mtd rumbling in the ~. chiefly after meals.
Ineffectual urgefr.cy to •tool, or diseharge ofmucus and wind only.- CoDBtipa-
tion (or diarrhrea) of pregnant women.- Insuffiaent, tardy stool, resembling
bay·berries.- Sparing stool diseharged with difficulty, and tenesmW~.- Too tli)ft
•tool. - 'Gelatinous evacuations, with cutting io the bowel& - DeiJilitating didr-
rh(E(J,- Greenish diarrhrea, frequently of a putrid or sour stench, partjeularly
with children. - Blood discharged with the stool.- Contracting pain and tension,
itching, creeping, bundng and pricking in the ana and rectwm. - Moi8tnesi dis-
charged from the rectum.- Prolap~U~ ani, chiefly with the stool.- Congestion
of blood towards the anus.- Protrusion of the hemorrhoidal tumors.- Bleeding
piles.- Soreness between the nat~- Contracting pain in tbe perimeum.
Frequent urgency, with inability to urinate.- Micturition at night. - baconti-
nence of urine in bed, during the first sleep. ..;_ Dark, blood-red urine.-Turbid
urine, with a red sandy sedimeut.-Stinking urine, with much.white aediment.-
Urine depositing blood.- Spasm io the bladder.- Burning in the bladder and .
urethra. - A ratping pain in the urethra, wbeo pusiog water. - .Cutting and
pricking in the urethra.- GonorriUN Be~ria.
The genitals perspiring much, ehiefly the testicles. - Itching on the genitals.
-Itching eruption on the glans and pneputium. - Balano-blennorrhcea ofa sour-
ish saltish odoar.-Ulcel'8 on the glans and pl'l!eputium.-Pains in the testiclea.-
Swelling of the scrotwn.- Weakness of the genitals. - Incl'aiiSed sexual desire,
with many erections. - M-g aemirull .emilaimu, also after onanism. - Proltatic
fluid escaping d.er mieturitiou, and with a difficult evecaation. - After eoiliOn or
after seminal ~ mental and bodily weakness and filtigue.
Gtdling on the pwimd{l antl 6ettDeeX tbe ~eg,, also befure meastruatioD.- Heat
in and on the g.-..- ContracU8g pain in tile .,.___ Swelling and an itda-
i•g, moistaiug ,..,_onthe labia W1Wm.-1JfnnUitlf'CI ~ i1a the utenu,
obatructiDg respilWio.-ProlapMII! uteri.-Induratineftbeuteraa.-Menstrua-
&ioa too early, too weak, or nppiVJHf!Jd.- Meaiauacion too pooflllle.- Metror-
rhagia.- Before 1118111ltJ'u!Mioa, paine ill the abdomen.- Dflring mm«nu.tWn,
Digitized by Coogle
Sepia.·
pensiveness, tooth-ache, headache, and puiu as ifbeaten i~ 1M limb6. -Sterility.
- Propenrity to abortion.- Leucorrhaa 'of a yeUow or greenish-red water, or a
pu.like 8uid ofa putrid stench.-Itching, excoriating leucorrhOlll.- Leucorrhma,
attended with Btitchtll' in the vagina.
Obltruction or tedio-qs dryne11 ofthe n08e. - Gravedo. - Indurated. mucus in
the noee, like a pledget.- Much deftuxion from the noee, pain in the occiput and
drawing in the limbe. ·
Hoar8eftut, with coryza. - Sell88tion ofdl'):~ess in the trachea.
Cough, occuioned by tickling in the larynx or the chest. - Long continued
hooping cough.- Dry rough, as iforiginating in the stomach, particularly in tlae
evening in bed, and frequently attended tDith natUea and bitter vomits.- Cough
of pregnant women.-Humid cough, after a cold.- Cough, with copiOUB expecto-
ration ofphlegm, mostly ofa putrid or taUish tute, frequently in the ~ng tmd
e~~tning only, and attended with rattling, weakness, rawness and sorenese in the
chest.-Expectoration from the chest, which is l09f!ened with difficulty,- Green·
ish, yellow, pu.like expectOration, with the cough.- Phthisis ptdfiWJUJlis. -
Bloody expectoration, in the morning and evening, during the day, expectoration
of phlegm. - When coughing, stitches in the chest and back.
Tightnett and opprusion ofthe chest, and short in'eath, when walking, standing
or lying in bed, in the evening and at night.-When breathing or coughing, pain
ip the side of the chest. - Oppression in the chut, from ohltructed or too copious
expectoration.
Pains ih the chest, from motion.- Pressure in the cheat, 'chiefty in the even·
ing in bed.- Heaviness, fulness and tension in the cheat. -Spasm in the chest.-
Stitches in the chest and its sides, when in'eathing and coughing, and with mental
exertion.- Pneumonia.- Agitation of the blood in the chest, and ttrong palpita-
tion ofthe heart. - Intermittent heart-beating.- Brownish spots on the breast.-
Stitches in the mamm~e.- Sore nipplet.
Burning rending paiu in the back and tacral region.'-Weakness in the small
ofthe back, when walking.- Cutting preseure, agitation and squeezing rending
in t1ae back.- 8tijfneBB ofthe back and neck.-Chilliness in the back.- Brownish
spots on the back. - Reddish, herpetic spots on the hip and on both sides of the
neck. - Itching eruption on the back. - YeUowish.red spots on the neck and
uader the chin. - Furuncle on the neck. - Perspiration in the arm-pits. - Swel·
ling and suppuration of the axillary glands.- Moist herpes in the arm-pit.
Wrenching pain in the shoulder·joint.-Silllbess and sell88tion ofcoldness in
the.arm, as if maimed.- Disabling dravnng pain in the arm and ~boulder-joint,
extending into the fingers.- Stingingpain in thearm and wrist,wh~n exertingand
moving them.- Painful tenlion and 1training Ofthe armt and joints ofthe elbows
and fingers, as if they were too short.- Bright-red, hard, reddish spotted in-
flammatory swelling in the half of the upper-arm.-Vehemently itching bJadders
on the upper-arm.- Stiffnut ofthe joinu ofthe elbotD1.-:- Brown spots, herpetic .
eruption and itching •curf• on; the elbotD. - Suppurating bladders on the beck'of
the hand and points of the &gera.- &vere itch and ICtlb• on the Aanls.-
Arthritic drawing and •tinging in thejinger-joinu.- Crooking of the fingers.-
Digitized by Coogle
,..._-
Sepia. ~ Sericum. - Silica.
Indolent ulcer• on tTae joints and point~ of tlae finger•.- Warts on the arms-
Crippled finger-nailll.- Panaritia.
Rending darting arthritic paine in the hip: - Paine in the buttocks and
thighs, from sitting. -lNsbilitg qf tlae leg•, particularly after vexation.- Stijf-.
MU oftlae leg•, extending to the joint ofthe hip, after litting for a t11hile.- Cold-
MU of tlae leg• and feet.- Swelling ofthe lege llDd feet.- Spasm in the thighs,
when walking.- Rending or jerking BtitclaeB in tlae tl&ighB and shin-bones, which
almost make it neeeeeary to cry out.- Funmcle1 on the thighs and in t1ae berwlB of
tTae kneu. - Drawing and rending •tinging in tlae knee•, lege and heels. - Pain-
ful ewelling ofthe knee.- &iffneBB oftlae joint• oftTae knee andfoot.- 8palm in
tlae calve!, al8o at Dight. - Reetleeeneee in the legs, in the evening. - Itching
efBoreeeenee on the lege and back of the foot.- meers on the bftek of the foot.-
Straining in the heels and joints ofthe feet, as ifthey were too short. - Priek1ing
and burning in the feet.- Prickling and numbness ofth~ eoles.-Foot4tlleat, also
eupprei!IM'd.-Ulcen on the l&eeu, originated from p~agedamie bladders.-Indolent
ulcer• on the joints and point• oftlae toeB. -Corns with stinging pains.- Crippled
nails of the toes.
i 61. Serieum.
Sillt.- Germ. S•id•.
Symptoms ofthis remedy will be published in the CorrelpOndenzblatt.
162. Silica.
Duration ofeffect: about 50 days.
Antidote•: ealeie eulphuretum, camphors.
U1ed t11 an antidote for hydrargyrum, peorinum, sulphur.
It tm8tllerl t~~eU qfter sulphur, (ealcie earbonu).
After it annoer tlleU: lachesis, lycopodium, sepia, ealeie eulphuretum.
Predominant effect•: DraWing and rending in the extremities. - Piercing in
the limbs at Dight. - The limbs readily benumbed.- The limbe as if beaten and
disabled in the evening.- Easily injured by lifting.- Painful ostitis. - cane..:_
&:rophuloul and rhachitic complaint•. - Suppurating tumors of the lympbetie
vessels. -Swelling and induration oftfae gland., mostly without pain, only some-
times attended with a troublesome itching. - Hysteric complaints of dift'erent
kinds.-Con.eequeneee of the misuse ofmereury.-Jerkirig in the limbe, day and
night. - Epileptic Pa'"tJBmB. - Worm-complaint• of BCrOplaulOUB indi11idtuJU,_.
Many complaints are inerea.eed or appear at night and in the evening, likewise by
motion.- The complaint• are i~ tDitA tlae faU and netO moon.- Paine with
the change ofthe weather.
General rertleBBne11 in the body, afterlunJing Btlt long.-Agitation ofthe blood
and thirst, after a lllllall quantity of wine.- Exeeesive emaciation.- Childrea
Digitized by Coogle
Silica.
learn 1.o walk with diiiculty.-Sluggish, unw~ldy gait.- Weakneee of the joiatB,
which kniekle.- Tremor of tht> limbs, chiefty in the morning. - Generalpower-
leesneee and ~t nervow aoeakneu. - FaiDt.ishneae, when lyiug on the aide. -
Great fatigue, languor and sleepineaa, during thunder.- Very lu.ble to take cold,
even when uncovering the feet.
Paitiful terulemeaa of tAe akin. -Itching on tlte aokole body, frequently creep-
ing or prickling.- Eruption like.cbieken-pox all over the body.- ErysipelAtous
blotches on the skin. - Suppuration~ of a good or bad kind, chiefty in membran-
ous parts.-The skin is healed with difficulty.- Ulcera ofall kinds, also from the
misuse ofme.reury.- Stench from ulcera.- Pro¢ 4lesh, or fc:etid, eomKiing iclwr
in uleel'l!. - Preaa\U'e, itching, rasping and a boring •lirwt71lf in tAe ulcer•. -
Furuncles.- Malignant gangrenou Glncuau.- Ganglia.- Warts. - PaMritia.
Great Bleepineu, without ability 1.o sleep~ - Sleepinua early i~ the eveJting. -
Too slight, slumber-like sleep at night.- Sleepleltmaa, caused by agitatitm ofthe
~. heat •• the head and an accumulation ofideas.- Dreadful imaginations at
night, and mang anlriou delirioul dreama, with whining, talking, shrieking, fre-
quent awaking and startling.- Frightful jerking of the body in 1leep.-Wanton
dreams. -Stertorous respiration in sleep.- Night-mare.- SomMmbulilm.
Great chillineu and frequent chilly shivering, with every motion. - Much.
heat, and flushes of heat. - Intermittent fever aoith atrong heat, mostly without
chills, and ouly with a small perspiration, commonly from 10 o'clock in the mor-
ning to 8 o'clock in the evening.- Worm-fever, aoith 1crophulotll individual~.­
Teething fever ofchildren.- Perspiration, when moderately· walking. - Profu.e
perlpiration at night, allo ofa aouriah odour.
Melancholy and inclination to weep.- Home-sickneaa.- Atl.riety and rutlea•-
.U..-Anxious doubtfulneaa ofconscience.- Easily frightened, chiefty by noise.
-Discouragement.- Cheerleaaneaa, ill humor, and timidity, with silent weari-·
neaa oflife.- FretfulneBB, caprice and irritability.-Pliable mind.-Disinclination
to labour.
Weak memory. -Inability to reftect. -Great mental cllilsipation.- Misusing
,words.
Dizzitaeu of the head.- Fatigued by tnental labour (reading, writing and
reflection).- Dizziness in the evening, aa ifintoxicated.- Giddinel3 of different
kincll, chiefly ill the morning, and particularly when lookiO« upwards or when
riding in a carriage. - Giddineu 10ith ntJUBeG and choking, or proceeding from
tile back through the nape into the head.- Giddineaa with danger offalling.
Headache, ori~nating in the nape, and eztenJing to the 11ertez,·by which sleep
is interrupted at night.-Headache from overbeating.-Headacbe with chilliness,
weaknee8 and a neeet!8ity to lie down.- PresBUre in the head, with ill humor and
heavineaa in the limbs, also in the morning.-Heavineesofthe bead, which preeBeS
forward in the forehead, every day from noon till evening.-Tension and pre&811re
in t8e laead, a1 if the head aoould burst.- Drawing in the head and through the
Mrebeed.- RntMrtg headache, frequently on one Bide; witll piercing through the
eyes from inside outwards, and in the facial bones; also every foreneon, with beat'
in tt.e bead, cbiefty the forehead.- &itclau iR the head, aad particularly the
teDlples.- Ti~ headaeie, fi'Witly from c~ of~he 6leod to the he<a4.-
Digitized by Coogle
Silica.
Painful jerks in the bead.- Turning and whirling in the head, as ifall were alive
in it.- Vibrating sensation in the brain, whea stepping out.- The headache is
increased by mental labour, stooping and talking.- After headache, obec.uration
ofsight. .
Painful sensitiveness of the exterior of the head, with the ,least touch.-Efllo·
largement ofthe head, with open fontaneu, in children.-Perqriration on the head,
in the everting.-Tubereulons elevations on the scalp.- Much itching in the hairy
part of the head. - Itching, moiltening scald. - The hail' falling off.
Pain in the eyes, in the morning, as if from dryness or sand. -Pressure and
rasping in the eyes and lids. - Itching, biting and heat in the eyes. - Rednus of
the eyes, with a biting pain in the canthL - Inflammation of the eyes.- Swelling
ofthe lach~ Cll1'uncle. - Fistula lachrymalis. - Running of the eye1, chiefly
in the open air. - The lidB glued together by matter, at night. - Fu.ngUB Junna-
todes and ulcers ofthe cornea.-Spots and seal'!! ofthe cornea. -Quivering of the
eyes. - Spasmodic contraction of the lids. - Presbyopia. - The letters running
together when reading.- Objects appear pale, when reading. - Obscuration of
sight, like a gray veil before the eyes. - Short paroxy8IIl8 of sudden blindnHB.
-Cataracts and amaurOBiB.- Sparks and black BpOts before the eyu.- Photop'/w.
bia, and the eyes clazzled by the day-light. ·
Drawing otalgia. - Boring and throbbing in the ears. - Stinging in the es7
from inside outwards. - Itching on the ears. - Inflamed, ~oist edges ofthe eai'\
-Scabs behind the ears.- Swelling of tlie external ear, with his8ing in it an~.
a di8charge from it.- Much humid cerumen. - Excessive sensitiveness of the
ear to noise. - Obstruction ofthe ears, sometimes when blowing the nose, diBap-
pearing with a crackling semation.- Dysecoia, without any noilie in the ear,
sometimes only with respect to the human voice. - Dyseeoia increased with the
full moon.-Ringing, fluttering, rushing and clucking in the ears.-Caries ofthe
IDB8toid process. - Hardswelling of the parotis. ·
The nasal bones painful when touched. - ·Gnawing paim in the upper-part rg
the n01e, with heaviness whim stooping, and great'sensibility to pressure.-Throb-
bing ulcerous pain in the nose, extending into the head. - Inflammation ofthe
interior n<ise, also after the misuse ofmercury.- Itching and r.edness ofthe nose
(on its point), with scurfy vesicles on it.- Furuncle on the nose.- li!eabs and
ulcers in the nose. - Epistazil. - Anosmia.
Countenance pale and earth-colored. - White spots on the cheeks, from time
to time. - Burning red spots on the cheeks and nose, chiefly after meals. - Heat
iu the face.- Itching in the whiskers.- Fumncle on the cheeks.- Cracked
skin in the face.
Swelling ofthe lips. - illcerated comers of the mouth.- Scurfy eruptions on
the lip«, with a rasping pain. - Ulcer• in the red part ofthe lip•. - Carcinoma of
the lipe. - Furuncle on the chin. - Herpu on the chin.- Spasm in the maiiliary
joint.- Drawing and piercing in the lower jaw, at night.- Exosto8is of the lower
maxilla. - Swelling of the submarilla'ry gland8, with painfulness to the touch.
Tooth-ache, from warm food, or cold air entering into the month.- Drawing,
jerking and rending in the teeth and cheek, mOBt vehement at night, or only when
eating. - Nocturnal lancinating tooth-ache disturbing sleep, exacerbated by cold
or warm things. - Agitating and boring sensation in the teeth. - The teeth set
Digitized by Coogle
Silica.
on edge.- Painful Wlammation, swelling and eorenea oftbe gums, which bleed
readily.
Drgnus of the mout.\. - Offensive odour from the mouth, chiefly in the mor-
ning. -Stomach-ache.-Phlegm <:onstantly in the mouth.-Sensation 88 ifa hair
were lying on the point of the tongue. - Sorenees of the toDgue. - Swelling of
one halfof the tOngue. - ffieer on the palate.
Sore throat, with much phlegM in it. - Sensation ofeoreheas and lancinating
in the throat when swallowing.- Swelling ofthe uvula.- Difficulty to swallow,
88 from pdsy of the pharynx.- When swallowing, the food easily enters into the
choana.
Agemia.- JJil.tenuu in the fMII.th, in the morning.- Great thirst, with
anorexia.- Bulimia, with anorexia.- Averlion to aU.food, -clai'tfly cooked,.tDtJtm
foodi appetite only fo~ cold. -Loathing ofmeat, which, when taken, remains un-
digested. - Aversion of the child to its mother's milk, with vomiting after suck-
ing. - After meal&, great sleepiness, heari-burn, .oterneBB in the mouth, sour
eructation, fulnees in the stomach and abdomen, or preutwe in the BtomaciJ, aoater-
brah cmd vomiting.
Eructation, urith the 148te ofwhat ha been eaten, also after every meal.- Sour
eructation.- Heart-burn.-Hicknpping, also in the evening in bed.
Natuea, every morning, with headache and pain in the eyes wben turning
m, succeeded by an ejectin! a bitter water. -Nausea after meal.e or after
ery overheating exercise.- Continual naU~ea tmd vomiting.- Water-briiBA,
with shuddering.- Vomiting after every draft.- Vomiting of what has been
eaten.
Prumre in the atomacla, after every meal, or from drinking hastily.-Prliriftd-
neu ofthe BCrobictdtu, tDAen prused upon. - Heaviness in the stomach.- Grt11p-_
ing in the pit oft/r,e atomach, also after meal&-Burning in the pit. of the stomach.
The region of the liver hard and distended. - Stitches in the hypochondres, .
chie11.y the left one.
Pains in the abdomen, during which, the hands become yellow and the nails
.blue.- Pressure in the abdomen, chiefly after meal& -Hot, dutended, hard beUy
(in children) with painfulness .to the touch.-Tumid abdomen.- Colic occarioned
by comtipation.-Griping or cutting paina in the hypogaatrium, also without diar-
rlaaa. - Burning in the hypogastrium. - The abdominal pains are relieved by
putting warm cloths on the abdomen. - Pairiftd inguinal hernia. - Inflamed
swollen inguinal glands.- Obstructed flatulency. _:. &lling M4mbling tmd grunt-
ing in the hypogaatrium, wben.exercisiug.- Difficult discharge ofwind.- Ex-
ceesively fretid wind discharged.
Comtipation and retarded, clotty, hard stool, with a difficulty to discharge.-
Co.tiveneu, with much ineffectual pressure to stooL - Some papescent stools
during the day. - Diarrhrea with abdo~al pains. -:- Reddiah or bloody mucous
stools.-Frequent discharge ofa putrid stinking fluid. - Stinging and itching in
the anus aad rectum, also with the stooL
&ranguria.-Constant urgency to urinate with a 8Diall discharge.-Frequent ·
mictUrition, aleo at night. - Incontinence of urine in bed. - Resiiluary micturi- I
tion.- Reddish sand, or yellow, gravelly sediment in the urine. .
· Itching and rfld spota on the glans.- Swelling ofthe pneputium, with itching• 1
· DigitizedbyGoogle
Silica. 347
moistening pimples on it. - Soreness.and redness of the preputium.- Hydrocele.
-Perspiration and itching on the scrotum. - An itc"ing moiltening 'fX't on the
BCrotum.- Deficient eexual de8ire, with weakness ofthe lleJlual power.- E:ecu-
me •ezual duire, with many wanton thoughts and frequent lltrong erections.-
Proetatic fiuid escaping with the stool. -'After coition, heaviness ofthe limbe, or
paralytic sensation in one side of the bead.
Memtmation too early and too toeak, or too profu•e.- Long I'Uppf'Urion oftll.e
catamenia. - The menees too late or too long continued. - Befure menstruation,
diarrbooa. -During menstruation, pain!J in the abdomen.- During menstruation,
pale appearance ofobjects, or burning and soreness on the pudenda.-Itching on
the pudenda.-BIOoddiscbarged from the uterus, while suckling.-Metrorrh.agia.
- AborttU. - Leucorrhao, escaping with the urine. - Leucorrhc:ea, like milk,
diecbarged ,by jets, and preceded by cutting in the umbilical region.- Acrid,
~ng le.ucorrhaa.
Interrupted eneezing.- Toofreqwent, ezce16ive meesing.- Long continued
ob6truction of the 1101e, 60metimu occarioned by lumP' ofmueu~. - Tedious My-
nul of the 1101e, also ~ night. - 'Gravedo. - Conltant coryu.- Deflw:ion.from
tAe no6e, frequent, or abating the oblltruction of the noae.- Acrid excoriating dfs.
charge from the nose.
Hoal'l!eness, with roughness and 110reness in the larynx.
Cough, produced by drinking cold liquids, or by talking.- ConCWIIive cough,
occasioned by a su1theatingtickling in the tbroat-pit.-Suffileating cough at night.
-Spasmodic cough.- Dry cough, with soreness in the chest.- Cough witli
vomiting slime.- Much pellucid phlegm is expectorated with the cough.-Puru-
lent tlucharge tDith the etmgh. - Bloody expectoration, with a deep hollow cough.
-Phthw pulfi!Ofltl&.
Olntntction ofbreath, when lying on the back, or when stooping, running, or
coughing~- Deep sighing respiration.- Short breath occasioned by slight manual
labour, or by walking rapidly, sometimes attended with tigb'tness of the chest,
when at rest.- Asthmatic respiration when walking quickly. - Oppression of
the chest, 88 if the throat were constricted.
Prenure in the che•t, sometimes only when coughing or sneezing.- Stinging
in the cliut and its sides, sometimes extending through the back. - Throbbing in
the sternum.- Sensation 88 if beaten in the chest, when breathing or coughing.
-Irlflamed nipplu in lying-in women.- Suppurating mtmmu1 of.uckling1DOI'tle1l.
-Indurated mammary glands. - Carcinoma oftAe bretllt.
Pain in the 6mGll ofthe back, when touched or not. - Spasmodic drawing in
the BJDall ofthe back, which makes it neces~Bry to lie down, and does not permit
one to rise. - lttftmnmatory ab•cu1 on the mwculu. p60f#. - Disabling stiffilese
and weakntlf!S in the neck, back and acral region.- RendiDg and piereiDg in the
back. - Stitcbell in the lumbar region, when sitting or lying. - 8toellirtg ontl in-
cun~ation oftAe thwlqlt~ercebrte. - Sensation u if beaten between the llboulder·
blades. - Tightening, drawing, rending, and Btitcbee in aad between the ahoulder-
blldes.- Suppurating ulcer on the neck. - Bftloreecenee and furuncle on the
neck. - Glandular IUielling on tile nape, the throat and iD the 81'JDopite.- Su~
paration ofthe axillary gland& '
Digitized by Coogle
Silica. - Sodre boras.
Drawing and rending in tke aNM, hands and fingers. - Heavineat and dis·
abling weakneas ofthe arms, ttJit/r. tremor ofthem from a liule labour. - The arms
benumbed when lain 111'00, or when puUing them on the table. - Trobbing and
twitching ofthe muscle~~ in the arms. - Cracked skin on the arms and hands. -
Furuncle& and warts on the anns.- Incipient pal8y ofthe fore-arm.- Stitches in
the wrist, at night, extending into the arm. - Spasmodic pain in the hands and
fingers. - Numbne88 of the hands at night. - Palsy ofthe hands. - Ganglion on
the back ofthe hand. -Ulcer on the back of the han.,_ Creeping in the fingers.
-Burning in the jointa of the fingers. - PainfulnesS of the finger-Joints, when
pre88ing upon them. - Weakne.ss, stiffne88 and unwieldineM of the fingers. -
Burning suppuration or phagedamic bladders on the fingers.- Panaritia.
Drawing rending and straining in tke legs. - The legs readily benumbed,
ohiefty when sitting.- Disability ofthe legs. - Drawing, rending and stinging in
the muscles ofthe ~high.- Itching ulcers on the thigh and ankle. - Purunclu on
tke thiglts and calves ofthe legs. - Rending in the knee. - Swelling ofthe knee.
-White swelling of the knee. - Drawing pain in the legs. - Coldne88 of the
legs.- The legs swollen to the feet. - Ulcer on the leg, with a sickly color of
countenance. """'7 A red spot on the shin-bone, painful to the touch. - Caries ofthe
thin-bone.- Straining in the calves, as if they were too short.- Spasm in the
calves, in the evening, after bodily labour.- Numbne88 ofthe calves. - Itching
rash on the calves.- Rending and stinging in the feet, heels and toes. - Stitches
in the ankle, when stepping out.-The feet benumbed in the evening.-Coldne11
ofthefeet, also suppre!llled foot-sweat. - Burning of the feet and soles, ehiefty in
the evening and at night.- Swelling ofthe feet, particularly in the morning.-
Stench ofthe feet. - Foot-~Weat, excoriating between the toes.- Suppressed foot-
sweat. - Painful hard calli on the soles of the feet. - A voluptuous tickling on
the sole of the foot, after scratching a little, making a man almost mad. - Spasm
ih the sole ofthe foot. - Phagedamic bladder on the heeL - 8tiffne88 ofthe toes.
- Vlceration ofthe big toe, with a pricking pain. •
f 63. Sodre boras.
Duration ofeffect: a few week&
Antidote•: chamomilla, coft'ea.
Predominant effects: Darting or drawing stinging'pains.- The COIItJIIldints are
increaed, or originate with bad, rainy weather; or during and after mealL-Dis-
ordel'8 from riding in a carriage, or the use offruit&
Reetle811De88 in the body, which allows of no ease in any place. - After an
ardent discourse, or during reflection, restle811Dess, tremor, fWIUftO. obstupefilction,.
and giddiness. - Re:stle81Dle88 during dinner. - POtDerlumea in the joints. -
General powerleamess. approachiDg syncope.- w~ chiefly in the abdomen
and the joints, with looseness of the bowel&- Attacks of syncope, with tOnni-
cat.ien, tremor ofthe legs and nausea.-Languor after eleepiDg at noon.-Tremor:
I
Digitized by Coogle
'
Sodre boras. 849
of t.bo whole body•.-The infant gets pele, with flaccidity of the mUflcles, and
much weeping and llhrieking.
The &kin dVfictdt to heal.- Inveterate wounds and ulcers incline to suppura•
tion.- Erysipelatous inflammations.- Herpes.- Corns.
Early awaking at night, IIJld difficult to sleep again, from heat and a multitude
of thoughts. - Early sleeping in the evening, and unrefreshed in the morning.-
Late sleep and early awakin~. - Restless sleep, from congestion of the blood to
the head.- The child sleeps more, frequently awakes, with startling and grasp-
ing about with the hand&
Chill&, mostly in the afternoon, succeeded by heat and headache, which dis-
appear in the open air. - Chilliness, with beat in the head, insipid taste, rough-
ness in the larynx, stitches in the chest, and contracted, quick pulse. - Chilly
shivering at night, with tremor, vomiting of what has bee~ eaten, rending in the
limbs, after ·sleep; heat and thirst, bitter vomits, and then perspiration.- Chills
with headache, succeeded by heat without thirst. - Chilliness during dinner, and
then diarrhrea, every other day in the afternoon" with thirBt and sleep after the
chills, or heat in the evening.- ChillinCSI!, when uncovering oneself, or when
rising from bed.- Alternation ofchills and beat, with perspiration in &be face.-
Heat in the liead oftlie infant, with heat in the mouth, and the'palms of the bands.
- Heat, chie.fty in t.he hands.- Heat, with a bard accelerated pulse, in the after-
noon, when walking in the open air, with stitches in the cbest.-Fiushes ofheu,
in the morning, with nausea ,and inclination to vomit.- Perspiration at midnight,
or during slumber in the morning, at night after complaints in the evening, or
in the morning after complaint& at night, with coilgh while dressing oneself.-
Heat with a quick feverish pulse, nausea and vomiting of mucus.
Anxiety attended with sleepiness, or rolling in the abdomen.- Anxiety, when
rapidly driving down a hill - The child is anxious when moved downwards in
dandling: - Eaily frightened.- Peevishness, in children, with &hrieking.-
Shrieking ofchildren.- Vehemence.-Irritability (when occupied with an impor-
tant business)..- Disinclination to mental labour, and sluggishness.
Vanishing ofthoughts.
- Attacks of giddiness, with vanishing of thoughts. - Giddiness and fulness iD
the head, chiefly when ascending a height.-Giddiness, with nausea when refleC-
ting or talking.- Pulneu in the head.
Soreneu in the whole head, teilh MUWJ, inclination to vomit, and gmeral
tremor, in tl_ae monti"8' about 10 o'clock. -Every evening, drawing in the bead,
with nausea and drawing jn the abdomen.- Headache; lile fulness in the brain,
with preaure about the eyes. -Dflrting ia the head, chie6y above the e1es, in
the temple., and iD the swollen glands of the throat, and attended with alternatio«
heat and coldness of the bands. - Heat in the bead. - Congution of the blootl to
the hetul, chiefty the occiput, with tlarobbing ia tie brain.
Tenderness of the exterior of the head to coldness, aod the in4uenee of
weatber.-The pointl of the hair are entangled.
PreanJte about the eyes, and painf\d pnlllills inward.- Rending, cuWilg aud
stiDging ia the eye-balls.-ltchia« iD ~ eyea. - Bumiog in the eye.. - Eftlro.
piua.- &reaeu llfUl i~......,. •f 1M ucerul cntli.- ~ill,..
30
Digitized by Coogle
Sodre bor.u.
I
CMitl&i, with agglutiDation at night. - Oplathalmitis neonatorum. - Hard dry eye-
gum. -Difficulty to close the eyes in the evening, and to open t.bem in the mor-
ning. - Gli.etering before the eyes, in the morning. - Oblcuration ofBight in the
evening.-The eyes ve~y eeullitive &o the candle-light. ·
O&algia, ae from internaleorenE'IIIJ.- Inftammatory swelling of the ean, with
• purulent diedwrge from the afulitory pu1age, and.stinging paine in,the"head.-
Stinging iJJ the earl,, particuJarly the left, attended with headache.- Dysecoia.-
Tingling and buuing in the earl.
Itching in the nose. - Ulcer in the left nostril. - Dry.cl'U8UJ·in the nose. -
Epmbod& _
Pale, earth-colored countenance of the infimt.- Rending in the cheek, with
tooth-ache.- SeDI8tion, u if spider-web were in the fuce. -Erysipelas in the
fuce.- Swelling of the fuce and eruption of pimples.
Burning and pimples on the lipe. - Herpes ::bout the mouth and tl scurfy
upper-lip.
Dull grtUping poin in Jwllow teeth t chiefly with wet raany toeather, and IOfMo
tilnu with 1welling ofthe gum/-Pain in the teeth, and at the 88Uie time in the
cheek, eye, ear, and head. - Painful inftammatory swelling of the gums, with
paine in hollow teeth, and swelling of the cheek.
Eallily bleeding (Jphthe in the mouth and on the tongue, chiefiy in infunts.-
Painful, red vesicles on the tongue. - Spasm in the tongue, impeding respiration.
- Shrivelled palate ofinfants.- Dry tongue. . ·
Drynet~~, roughneas and burning in the throat.-'Much vilcid adhering phlegm
in the throat.
Anorexia, cbiefty in the evening.-Desire for sourish liquids.-During tneGI.#,
· rutkii~MN, and nautea.- .t\f1er every meal, iriflation u.f the abdomen, and pres-
sure in the stomach, or diarrhaa and pain in the abdomen.- After meals, fulness
in the stomach and head. - After eating fruits, fulnees and pressure in the stom-
ach, with peevish uneomfortableneas. - After smoking tobacco, pain in the ab-
domen, as ifdiarrhcea would follow.
Hickupping. - Nausea in the afternoon, or in the morning with' readiness to
vomit, and vomiting of mucus.- Nausea, when riding in a carriage, or when
refieeting or talking ~ehemently.
' Pain in. the stomach, extending to the small of the back.- Pressure and con-
tracting &ensation in the stomach and scrobiculus, with oppression.- Pain in the
8Cl'Obieul1111, when pressed upon (as if.from weak digestion).
Cutting, prellling pain in the right hypochondrium, when coughing.- Pru-
mre, sometimes burniu« in the iejt hypochondrium; drawing upwards to the chest.
-Pairfl8 in the hgpochoalre1, when riding in a carriage, moatly ofa~ kind.
uad in the led side.
. PUB·in' the abdomen and hypochoDdres, u if there were moving in confu.Wn
many hard, pointed pieces.- Sensation afweabess in the abdomen.- Pains in
'the abdomen, with ehuddering aocl chilli..
Frequent sqft, purging stools, with griping and rOIIiog in the abdomen, and
lllfiWUS diecbarge of.fiatuleacy.- M~ diarrh•11.- Frequent oalls,!O evaeuate.
·-Diu."""- without pain:.- 8oft light-yellow, .
1JIIICOIU8 ~~. toitll wet#c,a~.­
Blood Ud muctU dMchargetl.frotn the MUll, preceded by.a vehement itching and
Digitized by Coogle
Sod~ boras. 351
ereeping on the 08 coccygi8. -Itching and burning in the an118.- Stitehee ia the
rectum and anus. - Gree11 stools of suckling infimt& - Hard evacuation die-
charged with exertion.- Before evacuation, ill hnmor, afb!r it, hilarity.
Vehement urgency flo urinate. - Ineffectual'Urgency to urinate, with cutting in
the genitals._.... Shrieking befure micturition, in infant&- Hot urine ofa pungent,
o.ffenriwe oclour. - After mict11rition, a burning &training and rupmg in &he 11N-
thra, and f!ellsation of aoreneaa on its peint.- .O.rk-brewn small spote on the
~rifice of the urethra, with biting when pusing water. - A &tinging eeneation of
80r81lees on the margin ofa ecar, made tty a chaDCN.-The orifice ofthe urethra
glued together.
lndift'f:rence with reepect to coition, even when there ia some irritation in the
genitals.- W~nton dreams. - During or after aeminal emieeion, a cutting iB the
urethra.- The aemen by nocturnal emil!sions, ia discharged very quickly, and'of
a thin consistence. -During coition, the ~~emen is too quickly, or too tardily dis-
charged. ,
·MemtMUJtion too early, and profuee, or too late. - The menstrual discharge
very much increased the third day.- Pale menstrual blood.~ Before men~~trua­
tion, heavineBS in the chest, obatruction of the breath.- During menstruation,
griping in the bowels, inclination to vomit, pains ip the atomach, perspiration,
weakness, throbbing in the head, buzzing in the ears, a sp8amodic stinging and
urgency in the groins; cutting or stinging in the genitals.- After menstruation,
preMUre in the region ofthe n'be ofthe right !ride, extending to the ahoulder-btade,
and then spasmodically proceeding to the stomach and small of the baek, with
TOmitiug.-Stiuging in the uterus, and on the clitoris, with a~ l'lt'nsatioo.
- Leucorrhc:ea, like albumen or paste. - ~ flo become retUlily ,-ef!Mrtt.
Sneezing, with stitches in the right aide of 'the chest. - DefluzioA from the
1101e.- Greenuh thick 1UUal muctu.
Rending in the larynx. -Roughness in the throat, with a drawing pain in the
throat-pit, when coughing and sneezing, relieved by expectoration ofphlegm.-
Tickling and scraping in the throat, with dry cough.- Dry cough, with children
and aged people, chiefly in the morning and evening.
Cough, with expectoration of blood-streaked phlegm. - W1aen COUf!hing or
deeply breathing, •titche• in the chest, chiefly in the right side.-Obstructed respi-
ration when riding down a hill, with spasm in the tongue.- Impeded respiration,
with necessity to breathe deeply, which is attended with stinging.-Oppreesion of
the cheat, when ascending steps, and short breath afterwards.-Obstrueted breath
when lying down.- Heavine&~~ and pressure in the chest.- Stitehe11 in the cheat,
when gaping, coughing, or deeply breathing.-When pressing the hand on the
eheat, the pain is relieved.- Reliefin the chest, when quietly lying on the baek,
or slowly wal'king about in the room.
Grasping and stinging in the female breast, and after the child has sueked,
emptine&~~, so that she must compress it with the hand.-Contracting pains in the
one breast, while the child sucks the other. -Incretne ofmilk mthe breast, which
runs out and coagulates.
PreMing pains in the small of the back, when sitting or stooping. - Burning
and stinging in the small of the back, when sitting.- Jtebing 8Jld creeping on the
oa ooccygis.
Digitized by Coogle
352 Sodre boras. - Sodre carbonas.
Rheumatic dra~ in the neek.-Stinging in the fti10llm gltml. oftie throM.
-Rending and stinging in the ehoulder.-At.ce. in the arm-pit.
The arm ae ifbenumbed, wilh etitcbee in the palm of the hand.- BnminK pain
around the upper-arm.-.~ eeneation,u ifspider-web were on the haDd.-Throb-
bing pain in the point of the thumb, with ...ppuration, day and ni1Jht, and inter-
rupting .Jeep.- Itching and burning on the finger, as if it were froet-bitten.-
WRrt-like indurations in the palm of tile hand (after a long continued preeeure on
that spot).- Suppurating pimples on the finger, :with stifthe• and pain.
Burning pain around the &high about a hand breadth.-Herpes on the buttock.
-ErysipelRS on the leg, with chills, thirst, vomiting, headache, and afierwant.
epistaxis.-Tremor of the fee&.- Itching on the ankles.- &ifaging in,tAe 1ole of
tkefoot.-Pimples on the ridge of the I!JDIIII toe.- Corns.
164. Sodre carbonas.
Duration ofeffect: about 40 days.
Antidote: camphora. ·
Predominant effect•: Spasmodic rending, particularly in the arms and legs.-
Disabling drawing and rendtng. in the joints, chiefly in the evening a~d at night.-
Decurtation of the tendom. - Jer.'rs or a jerking sensation in single limbl, joints
and mv1ele1.- Prickling in the muscles. -Easily injured by lifting and liable to
un-encking• ...;... Glandular tumefuctions. - Scrophulous complaint& - Hypoelwn-
driac disorder•.- The cofJlplaints are increased during a thunder-storm.- The
most of. the complaints originate in sitting and disappear by motion, pressure or
friction.- The pains are accompanied by an.riety, tremor and pertpirtdion.
General great restlessneee in the body, in the evening. -Great nervous irrita·
bility, even playing on the forte-piano ~uses trembling.- Flaccidity and iflfirmity
ofthe whole body.-Insecure gait.-Unwieldiness and sluggishness, chiefly in the
morning, wi&b diNnclination to exercise. - Great. languor in the limbs, in the
morning. -After a little walk excessively tired, and weak.- Long continued
aoeakneu.- Emaciation, with a pale countenance, dilated pupila and dark urine.
- Shunning the open air.- Great liability to tak~ cold.
Dryness of the skin, with profuae perspiration from the least motion or lalxntr.
-Formication under the skin. -Sca!Jies.- Herpetic eruptions.- The herpes is
enlarged and s\•ppurating. - Yellow circles from herpetic spots. - Spots on the
skin, which aJ\erwards become tuberculous.-Erysipelatous tubercles in the skin.
- Warta.- A pricking, cutting and·buming sensation in wounded parts.
Invincible sleepiness.in the daytime, wit/~ late sleep in the eveni~g, and difficulty
to get awake in the morning.- Fanciful aleep, .with animated, also confused or
wanton dreams, with vehement erections and seminal emissions.- AJ;udoua
dreams, which, a1\er awaking, leave an impression, as if tbey were actually true.
-Great restlessness at night, agitfttion of the blood, .palpitation of the heart .wJ.
night· mare. - Jerks and shocks in sleep.-:-Awaking too early.
Digitized by Coogle
Sodre carbonas. 353
{)billy shivering, with cold bands aod W!p'Dl cheeks, or oppoeite, but ahnlys
Without tbiret.- ColditeM ofthe hand8 and feet.-NiB'ht...roeat•,'fioequentty ~­
nating tDit'N dryne•• ofthe din.- Conltant cold ~t~~eat, tDith a Bm~tltUm ofam:iety.
8ftdn818 and dtojection, with inclination to weep, and eorrow about the future.
- Rutle11ne11, tDith par~xy8Jll8 of anziety, chiefly during a thunder-storm and
mental occupation.-AvOiding c11mpany.-Hypochondriac humour and wearineae
of life.- Despondency.- Easily frightened.- Unwillingnell8 and bad humor.-
Fretfulne~~~ and angry -.iolence.
Difficulty to comprehend ancJ connect the ideu, when reading or hearing.-
Inability to mental labour, or rtdlection, and affectUm ofthe hetulfnma it.....:. Mental
inSnnity.
Dizzine11 in the h€ad, chiefly in a room, or when at reet.- Giddine11, chiefly
after drbiking wine or mental exertion.
Headache, ·t~~hen npo1ed to the IUn, or when 8Uddenly turning the bead. - A
ti«htening aeni!Rtion ofobstruction in the head, as if the furebead would buret.-
Preeeing headache with ·nau8ea, eructation and dimnel!8 of eight. - Spasmodic
rending in the forehead, extending into the eyes and point ofthe nose.- Darting
headache, through the eye• outward~. - Shooke through the bead. - Throbbing
headache in the vertex, every morning.- Congestion of blood to the bead, with
beat in it.
Rending externally on the forehead, every day at certain hours.
Burning in the eyes, when l'tlftding or writing. - Pricking tNJin in the tyeB,
and from imide outward~.- ITfflammation of.the eyes and lidB, with photophobia.
- Swelling of the lids.- Ulcera on the cornea.- Fietula lnchrymalis. - The lids
are frequently shut ofthemselves, and opened again with difficulty.-Dimeighted-
ness, with black flying epots, or dazzling flushes before the eyes. - Inability to
read II1IIIJll printing.-l>ust before the eyes.
Lftncinating in the ears. - Sensitiveness to noise. - Sensation of deafness, as
if the eare were obetructed.- Dy•ecoia.
The nose very tender.- Desquamation of the akin ofthe nose, on its bftck and
point.- Ulceration deep in the interior of the noae.
Heat in the face. - Bloated face. -Swelling of the cheek, with redneaa. -J
Rednel!8 and burning beat, or exeeaaive paleneas of the countenance, with blue
cirelea around the eyes.- Butnmer.freckle• in the face.- Itching moistening erup-
tion on the noae and mouth.- YellotD BpOll on theforehead and upper-lip.
Swelling of the lipa. -Eruption, tetter and ulcen~ around the mouth, and on
the lipe.
Grubbing boring pain in the teeth, chiefly after and during meal~, and particu-
larly after sweet meaJ. and fruita.- Preaaing tooth-ache, at night, with awelling
o( the under-lip and the gnme.- Great aentritiveneae orthe lower teeth.
Bladdere and flat 'IJ)cere in the mouth, attended with burning.- Stammering,
oecaeioned by heavineaa of the tongue.
The throat and pharynx are rough, itching and dry. -Much phlegm in the
throat.
The ttJBte bttter, or as after watching all night.- Sour taste in the mouth,
with a tongue much furred. - Gretzt tAir~t, and complaints fr11m drinking cold
Digitized by Coogle
Sodz carbonas.
liquill. - Strong, c:aine ~~ppetiU, chiety in the foreaoon. with a naueeoua aen-
ation ofemptioE'II. - biclination for delieaeiell.-AveJ'IIioo to milk and d~
after it.- Gretll aoeakfteu of llts"utiofa, :with ill humor, and 11ffJ Wl~
tlriac llu,oaticm after meall, and email excelle8 ~ diet. - At\er meals, fulnMs in
the etomaeh and aerobieulua.
Much eructation during and after meal& - Painful eructatilm. - CorulcRt
tDIImhling ~
Pre,.ure in the 1tomach, chiefly qfter mtdll.- Painfulneee in the rep.. ofthe"
stomach and heart, when touched or when speaking.- Preaaing drawing and
minutely cutting pain in the stomach.-Contracting spasm in the stomach.
Pains in the hypoehondres.- Stitche• in the left hypochondrium, aleo after
drinking cold liquids. - Stitche1 in the hepatic region.- Chronic inflammation of
the liver.
Belly-ache, in the morning, after getting aw~e.-Thiek, distended abdomen.
-Belly-ache at night, with tensiop in the epigRStrium and diarrhma.-o Colic, with
retraction of tht' navel, and hardnt'S8 ofthe abdominal integuments. - Lancinat·
ing and agitation in the abdomen. - Stinging and drawing in the sides of the
abdomen. - S~elling of the inguinal glands. - Accumulation, obstruction and
agitation offlatulency in the abdomen. - Much sour or putrid smelling wind djs.
charged.
Frequent 1trong urgency to stool, without effect, or toith a 111UJll iniUffieient
dilcharge only. - Difficult hard stool.- Soft or liquid stools. with strong sudden
calls, and spasm in the anus. - Yellow purging e:tools. - Disrrhrea with cuuing
in the bowels, after a cold. - Bloody stoou. - Tape-worm discharged with the
stool.- During and after evacuation, burning and cutting in t4e anus and rectum.
-Itching and prickling on the anus.- Stitches in ~he perinlllum.
Frequent 1trong urgency to urinate, day and night, either with a small, or
with exceslive discharge.- Incontinence of urine in bed. - Residuary m.icturi·
tion. - Bright yellow urine of a sour odour, 9r stinking, turbid, with a mucous
sediment.- During and after micturition, burning in the .urethra.- Jerking,
rending and rasping pain in the urethra.
Pain in the testicles, as from a contusion. - Heaviness and pressing drawing
in the testicles.-Galling on the scrotum.-Bala~o-blennorrhrea.- Inflammation
and swelling of the glans anQ. prlllputium, which readily become sore.- Excited
1exual delire, almost like Priapismus, with continued painful erections and sewi~
nat emissions. - ~he prostatic fluid escaping with the urint', or a difficult .evaeu-
.ation. - After coition, a great propensity to perspire.
Pre11ing and bearing down to the genitalB, as ifall would fall out. - Menses
too early, with headache and pains in the abdomen and 1acral regisn.- Metror·
rhagia. - Deformity of the orifice of the uterus. - Galling on the pudenda be.
tw~o the legs.- Sterility.- After coitibn, a discharge ofmucus from the vagi.nL
-Copious, yellowish thick, or putrid smelling leucorrhcu, sometimes preceded
by abdominal pains.
Q61tructiort. of the nose, with diac~e of hard otfenaive lumps ofelime.-
Coryza every other day.- Conltant coryaa, aad coughfrom a cold, and a ....U
Digitized by Coogle
Sodro carbonas. - Sodro nitras.
dr4ft ofair, only diappeariltg after penpiratiop, - Thiek, sreenilb, or yellowim
nual mucus.
H~ and roughneaa of the eJaeet..with eoryza, fever-ebille 8lld. a eoraping
painful eough.
Cough from tickling in the throat.- Vehement dry cough, when coming from
eold into warm air. - Cough, with a ltlltuh or stinking greenilh ezpectoratitm of
phkgm. - Expectoration, with rattling in the chest. - Hmmoptoe.
· Short breath, with tightne11 ofthe Melt.- Dyspnot'. -Tension in the chest,
when breathing.
Prei!Sure in the chest. - Lancinating in the cheet and its Bides. - Constant
chills in the left side. - Strong, sometimes anxious palpitation ofthe heart, when
8800nding steps, or at night, when lying on the left side.
Pain in the small of the back, as from sorenet!S. - Stitches in the small of the
beck, when sitting. - SP.31modic tension and drawing in the baek and n11pe.-
Formication in the hack.-Stitfnes~ of the nape........Swelling of the jugular glands.
-Hard ltDeUing ofthe thyroid gland.
Pressure on the shoulders~- Drawing and rending in the 1houlders, arms and
elbows, with weakness of those parts. - Heaviness, stitfneM, and painfulness of
the arms, that they I!Carcely can be raised.- A jerking sensation in the arms,
hands, and fingers, particularly when taking hold of something.- Warts on the
arms. - A drawing tension in the fore-arms and hands. - Cutting in the hands.
-Rending and boring in the metacarpal bones, chiefly ill the evening and in the
morning in bed.- Burning in the wrists, ir:. the evening. - Tremor of the hands.
-Dry, harsh, cracked skin of the hands.- Wart. on the back of tlte hand.-;
~ spots and herpu on the hands. - Twitching in the finger-joints. - Contrac·
tion of the fingers. - Burning itching and bt~miftg bladders on the fingers, as if
from nettles.
· Great heaviness of the legs and feet, with straining in them when sitting or
walking. - Jerking in the thighs.- Herpetic eruption on the buttocks. - Decur·
tatitm ofthe tendon& ofthe beJUl ofthe knee. - Hetpl!ll in the bend of the knee.-
Pressing ~pa~modic drawing in the legs. - Spasm and straining in the calves as
if they were something too short. - Swollen, 'inflamed legs, covered with uleera. ·
-Cutting IUld spasm in the feet.- Burning in the joints of the feet in the even·
ing. - Swelling of the feet or soles of the feet, with pricking, when threading on
the ground.- The joint of the foot is easily sprained or wrenched.- Cold feet,-
Tedious ulcerB on the keel, originated from phagedmnic. bladders. - Cracks and
galling between the toes, - Swelling of the toes with rending and sore paina,
which llllow of no sleep.- Bladders on the points o.f the toes, u ifthey were
~urnt. - Borin& drawing and stinging in the corns.
t 65. Sodre nitras.
Preesiug paiwl, as if beaten, in the joints.
D.iZzini!IS of the head, aa after close thinking.
Painfulneel ef tlle tympanum, ·like apuoi ill the ear.
Digitized by Google
Sodre nitras. - Sodre sulphas.
Coppery ta8tC on the lip&and tongue. - 8ottrill tcm.
Aversion to coffee. - Sourish eructat,ion.
Th11 abdominal muscles are painfully drawn towaids the bllek. - Pre•tting
flatulency, chiefly in the pit of the stomach and the chest, increased by exereiM
and relieved by eructation or discharge of.wind.
Tardy, thick shaped stool, dil!cbarged with diftlculty.
166. Sodre sulphas.
PredominGnt ejfect11: Rending and piercing or jerking and lvmclring reruli.ng
in the linib1 and other parts, particularly in the evening and at night. - P.irrj'ul-
neu of tlae limbl, as if ~aten, or tired.- Tremor of the body, with spaamOOie
motion of the muscles, attended with timid apprehension. -The most complaints
arise when at rest, and are relieved by motion. - Patients feel better in the
open air.
An itching sensation and ~tching pimp!~ burning after ecratching.
, Great •lupineu in the daytime, particularly the forenoon, and fulling aaleep
even when writing or reading.- Sleeple8811e88 from great restleaneas.-ReatleBe
llleep, with heavy, anziou dream~.- Jerking of the limbs in sleep.-Dreatn8 with
an impnll!ll!ion of flying.
Chilli with coldnes11, mostly in the ewming and at night, eometimes with
anxiety, shaking and chattering with the teeth, mostly without thirst.- Inward
coldneas, with stretching and gaping. - In the.morning after a walk, shaking
chills and coldn-, attended by internal beat in the bead, and·a yellow color of
countenance - During the paroxysms of chills, warm forehead and handti.-
General dry heat in the afternoon.- Profuse pel'llpiration at night.
Dolefulness and inclination· to weep, partieularly after listening to musie.-
PeeviBhneee, with dirinclinGtion to talk. - Fretful humor with a mol'Otle ap- ·
pearanee.
Giddine1111 in the evening, with vomiting ofa eour muC118.- Vertigo after din-
ner, with buzzing in the head.
Headaehe when reading, with beat and pel'llpiration.-PreBBUre in the ~ipnt
and the sides ofthe head, aleo at night. - Pain in the vertex, u ifthe head would
burst. - Jerking and grasping headache in the forehead, a18o immediately after
dinner, with' great sleepiness.- Boring heflflaelte.·- Painful jerh in the lwld,
like electric shock&- Darting in the side of the head, when eJterting the arms.-
Vehemently throbbing headache, particularly in the temples.
Painful tenderneSs of the scalp, when brushing the hair.- Rending exter-
nally on the vertex, at night, with shaking chills and chattering ofthe teeth.·
The eye-lids feel as heavy, RB iflead lay upon them.- PreslfUf'e in the eyer,
particularly in the evening, when reading by candl~Ji«ht. - Intenae paiD about
the eye.- Burning in the eye•, al110 in the e-.ening and morning, with great dry·
nese and.running of the eyes. -The eye-lids glued top&herby matter, at •i«ht.
o,gitized by Google
I
Sodre sulphas. 357
- Dilll8ightednet111. - After blowing the noee, 8Jl8rb before the eyes. - Pho-
toplulbia, particularly i9 the mominr, when awaking.
Otalgia, 88 if the tympanlUD would be pl'el!lled forward. - &itc'lae1 in t'lae earl,
inwards and outwards.- Ringing in the ears.
Miserable, pale countenance, 88 after nocturnal debauches, with a moroee ap-
pearance. - Rending pro~opalgia, chiefty in the zygomatic bones.
Dry and burning lips, with deequamation of the akin. - Inflamed, burning
bladders on the side of the upper-lip. - Painful atift'neas in the maxillary joint,
which rendel'll opening of the mouth difficult.
Drawing tooth-ache, with &eiUIIltioa of looseness and elongation in the teeth,
relieved by cold air and toboeco-emoking. - Pul.Mting, tbroblnng tooth-ache at
m'ght, with great reatlliBsneas.- Rending in hollow teeth, ut night, out of the
bed.- Burning in the gums.- A moveable indolent tumour on the gums.-Sup-
purating vesicles on the gums.
Dryne11 of the mouth, with thirst, particularly in the morning.- Burning in
the mouth, on the tongue and palate. - Burning bladders on the tongue. - Col-
lection ofsourish water in the mouth.
&re throat, Vlitb painfully prohibited deglutition and inftammatory swelling of
the uvula and tonsils. - Constriction and dryness of the throat.
Mucous t~ate. - Strung thir•t for cold liquids, particularly in the evening. -
Anorexia and loathing of food. - During meals, cloudiness of the bead with ob-
scuration ofsight.- After meals, perspiration in the fhee, opp.-on ofthe cheat
and collection ofwater in the mouth, with inclination to vomit.'
Sourish regurgitation.- Frequent hickupping. - Nausea with stinging in the
eyes.-Water-br88h in the evening.-Vomiting ofa saltish water, or sour mucus,
suceeedtld by great languor and burning headache.
Fulness of the stomach, extending into the ehest, with oppression of the
breath, in the evening in IM>d. - Boring pains in the stomach.
Painfulness of the hepatic region when touched, or when walking. -:- Throb-
bing, tension and 1titche1 in the hepatic region. - Stinging in the left hypo-
chondrium.
Paint in the abdomen tu ifbeaten, with pains in the small of the bftck, which
awake from sleep at night, and allow only oflying on ihe side.-Transient burn-
ing in the abdomen, here and there, in the evening. - Distention, burning and
darting in tl~.e groin~. - Painful accumulation of wind in the abdomen.- Grip-
ing.flatulet&t colic.- .Much rolling, rumbling and revolution in the abdomen.-
Copious discharge offaltid wind.
The stool hard.and knotty, frequently with blood and foam.- Frequet&t •oft,
purging •toolil.
Copioul urim.Z di«harge, with a yellow or lateritioua aediment.- During and
ofter micturition, burning in t'lae urethra.
Mucla itching on t'lae gtmitall,- Perspiration on the scrotum in the evening.-
Excited ae!'tual desire.
Memtruaticm too late, with abdominal pains and eon8ti)lfltion or costivelle88.-
During meDJtruation, headache and epistaxis. - Acrimonious and excoriating
m~rual blood, al$o eecaping in coagulated c:lote, only iil the forenoon.- Leu-
eorl'bala.
Digitized by Google
358 Sod:c sulpbas. - Sodii cbloretum.
Coryza with obstruction ofthe noee, which prohibits almoet an pal!l!8gl! ofair.
Dry tickling cough, with nmghnet~~~ of the trachea and BOrenetlll ofthe ehellt,
partieuJarly vehement at night, relieved by sitting up. - Cough with expectora-
tion, attended by abort breath and etitches in the left side ofthe chest.
Short breath, particularly when ·waJkin~.
Opprelll!ion ofthe chest.- Stitcht• in tile che•t tmd U. ftlu, partilmlarly pain-
ful when coughing.
Pain in tht .mall of tht kck u if bepten or ulcerated, chietly at night. -
Stitches in the small of the back, when sitting. -A gnawing rending alon~ tht.>
boaet! ofthe spine.-A cutting stinging between the shoulder-bladea.-lntermit-
tent rending and teneion in the muscles ofthe right Bide of the neck. - 8titehes
bt the arm-pit.
Rending in tht mui!Clet! and bone• ofthe upper- andf(l'f"e-~~rm. - Heavinetlll of
the IU1Il8.- Se088tion offulneaa and stiffneaa in the hand. - Rending and •ting-
iftg in the Jwruh tmdfinger•. - Tremor and infirmity ofthe hands, so, that they
cannot hold &81. any thing heavy. - Burning and redllet!ll On the back of the
hand, as iffrom nr.ttles.- Stinging ulcerous pain under the finger-nails.
Violent paiM in tht hip•, when stooping and moving, particuJarly when rising
from sitting, also at night in bed. - Heat and burning in the legs. in the evening
and morning. - Rending and tlrawing in the leg•, particularly the tendo Achillis
and calfofthe leg. - Great languor and reatlesmeaa in the feet.-Stinging rend-
ing a.ad ulcerous pain in the feet.- Much itching on and between the toea, partie-
u~rly in the evening, when undreaaing oneael£
167. Sodii chloretum.
.Duratiora oftjftct: about 50 days.
Antidotes: camphors, apir. lllth. nitr., (araenicum).
U.ed u antidotef(l'f": cinchona.
It annDtr• not weU a.{Ur: hydrargyrum and psorinum, which likewiee do not
suooeed well after it.
Predominant tjfect•: Pressing drawing in the limbs.-Stitrnellll! ofall the'joints
and knacking in them when moved. - Decurtation oftendon~. -:- Twntclaing in
ll&e mt~~cle• and limb•.-Easily wrenched 'Or injured by lining. -Paralytic affec-
tion•.- Varices.- Glandular tumefactions.- Scrophulous complaints.- Hys-
teric paroxy.m•. - Chlorotic affections. - Gastric complaints. ....;. Complaints
arising from the use ofacids and bread.- Bad con•equence• ofanger.-Injurious
results ofonaniam.-The complaints arise, and are renewed or increased in lying
and chiefly at night or i~ the morningend relieved by sitting up. - The noetu~
Did pains obstruct the breath and cause a kind ofhemiplegia.
General.agitation of the blood with pulsation throu«h the whole body, &om
the least motion. - Oongeatiou ofthe blood towards the head, chest and stomaeh,
with coldness ofthe legs. - Fatigued and affected from talking much. - thewt
o,gitized by Google
Sodii chloretum.. 859
relaxation ofmental and bodilg vWor, .after exertion.-Unwieldin~ and eluggiah·
ness, chiefly in the morning, after rising, with reluctance to exercise and walk-
ing.- &rene11 and ·languor of ike limb., moally in th!l morning and when sit-
ting. - Hysteric languor. - Great weakne11. -:- Alternation of languor and
lightness of the limbS. - E:rce11ive emacioticm. - Liability to take cold.
Prickling painful miliary eruption. - Itching blotches. - Nettk-rtJ8h after
rapid motion.- Herpes.- Furuncle&.- Wart1.- Panaritia.
8leepine11 in the daytime• .,.. Late sleep and •leeplume11 at night, with fruit-
lell endeavour to 1leep.-At night after getting awake, difficulty to sleep again.-
Difficulty to get awake and great tiredne~~~ from sleep in the morning. -Fanciful
sleep, full of animated, wanton dreams, with long continued erections, and seminal
emissions.- Heavy, anxioua dreams and weep~g in sleep.- Dreams which still
occupy the mind after getting awake and sometimes leave an impression as ifthey '
were true.-Agitation of the blood with anxious heat and palpitation of the heart,
at night. - Night-mare. - Tremor in the nerves, at night. - Somnambulism.
Frequent internal chilliness.- Conltant chilline•• and deficiency ofthe natural
tD4rmth. - Chilli with and without thir1t. - Chilly shivering, with inclination to
sleep, and perspimtion.- Alternation of chills and heat, with headache.-Heat
with great thir1t• ...;.. Intermittent fever, a)IIO after the miltue of cinchona, com-
mencing _
with chills 1\Dd ,thirst (in the morning at 10 o'clock), then succeeded by
th;.n;t and attended by headache an4 languor and yellowness ofcountenance. -
Before the fever, weakness.-Before the chills, headache; during the chills short
breath, gaping and sleepiness. - During the heat much and violent headache and
drowsy stupor. - During the fever (with the chills or heat) rending in the bones
and pain in the back. - Nervom fever•, chiefly with weakne11, dryne.• tif. the
tongue and great thir1t. - Irregular, frequently remitting pulle. - Perspiration
iJ1 the morning.- Too soon perlpiring, when e:rerciling or walking.
Jlfelancholic 1adnu1, with searching for many unpleasant things, much weep-
ing, and increased by consolation.- Sorrowfulness about futurity.-An.rioume11,
also during a thunder-storm, chiefly at night. - Indolence, aversion to talk, joy-
leasoees and dilinclination to la~r.-Hasty impatience and irritability.-Easily
frightened. - Hate of former offenders. - Freifulne.• and dilpolition to angry
violence.-Inclination to laugh. - Alternation of fretfulness and hilarity.
Great weakne$1 of memory and forgetfulness. - Thoughtlessness and mental
dissipation. - Misuaing words in speaking and writing. - Inability to r~ and
fatigue from mental exertion.- Awkwardness.
Painful di.uineM i.A ~head.- Vertjgo, every thing before the eyes turning
around, with danger of falling, particularly when walking and rilling from bed.-
Giddinu• IIIith jerb in tAe head and tmemucioumeu.
Hea4ache, in the morning when getting awake, also _
when turning or movmg
the head or body, when running, and in the cold air, or after vexation.-Heavmeu
in the head, every day, chiefly in thE' occiput, by which the eye-lids are coutracted.
- Paim in the head, a• if it wOtlld bur1t, or as if it were ecrewed t.Gg!Hher and
compl'888ed, chiefly when writing.- Arthritic headtlche witk ~a and vomit.
ing. - Pressure in the-head, chidy die temples or above the eyes, inueased by
kniWug the brow.. - ~eodi.pg dll.rting in the.head, c~eily ~OO.ve t4tt eyes, wif4
Digitized by Coogle
Sodii chloretum.
obl'Jeuration ofsight; and necHSity to lie down.- Darting jerkl through the lzead.
-Throbbing, beating and hammering in the, head, chiefly when moving the body.
-Throbbing and drawing in the forehead.
The hairy part ofthe head painful to the touch. - Contraction and movement
in the scalp. - Easily taking cold on the head. - Scabs on the hairy part of the
head.- The hair copioully fatling off, even from the whiskers. - The hair fal·
ling otfin Jying-in women.
Itching in the eyes. - Stinging, rasping, and sorent-ss in the eyes. - lnjlam·
mation in the eyes, also with scrophulous per&ems:- Acrid IJJater running from '
the eye•. - A ~ous matter in the exterior centhi. - The lids glued ·together at
night. - Constantly red and ulcerated lids.- The eye-lids closed in the evening.
-Disappearnnce of sight when reading or writing.- Dusty dimsigh~nt'Bs and
gauze before the eyes.- The letter• running together tehe1t reading.-Diplopia.
-Hemiopsia. - Presbyopia. - Incipient amauroriB. - Black points and streaks
oflight before the eyes.
Stinging in the ears. - Throbbing and beating in the ear. - Swelling and
heat in the ear. - Purulent diBcharge from the ear~. - Dyseeoia. - Tingling,
ringing, buzzing and roaring in the earl. ·
One side of the nose torpid and without feeling. - Inflammation and BtDelling
ofone halfof the nose, with pain when touched.- Boring pairi in the nasal f>9nt-s.
- Sorenct!S in the interior bf the nose.-Scabs on the nose.- Anosmi4.
YelloiJJiBh, earth-colored countenance.-:-Greasy shining countenance.-Tumor
of the face. - Itching and efflorescence in the face and on the forehead.- Crusta
lnctea. - Pain in the cheek-bones as iffestering, when lllll8ticating.
])ry, cracked, or sore and ulcerated lip•, with burning eruptions and scabs.-
Herpetic eruption abl)'lJt the mout!t.- Swelling of the upper-lip.-Blood-blisters on
the inside ofthe upper-lip, with a burning pain when touched.- Minute eruption
and ulcera on the chin.- Frequent siJJelling ofthe Bubmaxillary gland$.
The teeth are very semitjve to the air and toucli. - Jerking dratein.g in the
teeth, extending into the ears and pharynx, after meals and at night, with swelling
of the cheeks. - Darting, boring and throbbing in hollow teeth. - The teeth
becoming loose and hollow. - Fistula of the gums. - The gums swollen, easily
bleeding, and very tender to cold and warmth. - Putrescent inflammation of the
gums.- Ulcer on the gum&.
Bladders and ulcers in the mouth and on ·the tongue, with a burning biting
pain, when touched by food or liquids..- H~emoptysis.- Difficult speech, oeca-
.sioned by heaviness of the tongue.-Torpor and l'titfness ofone halfof the tongue.
- A long continued sensation, as if there were a hair on the tongue. ·
Pain in the throat, 11Jhen •IJJallot.oing, sometimes a Jong continued sellsation, u
from a plug in the throat.-Spasm in the pharynx. - lnjlmnrnation ofthe throat,
tDitJa s •tinging pain, and ulcers in the pharynx.- Phlegm ulunoked out, ehie8y
io the morning.
AgeuftG.-Bitternees in the mouth.- Tute ,Wrid or .our, or as 81\er watch-
in« all nighL-Putrid taste ofwater.- Long after-taste of fOod, chiefty l!iourish.
- Conttont thirlt, with nausea, distention of the abdomen, and other complaints
. r drinking.-.Lon ofanetite, chiefly for bretJd and tobacco smoking.-.Loath-
ing of food, chiefty &tty. - Uneomfortablenese after sour food and bread. -
Digitized by Coogle
Sodii cbloretum. 361
E:teeuive fJ71Ptlite, at noon, Rnd in the evening.- Bulimia, without appetite,
with fulness and 81ltiety after a small meal - Appetite fbr bitter tbod and lktuids.
-During meau' per~J)iration in theface. - .AJler meah, vacant enlCtation, nau-
•ea, sourness in the mouth, heart- bum, palpitation of the heart, and intermittent
or accelerated pulse.- A nalllleOus eructation after the u~~e offut and milk.
Eructation with the 'taste of what has been eaten.- Sour, irritating eructation,
also of the food. -Heallt-burn, coming up from the stomach. - NatUea, chiefly in
the morning.- Water-brash, with flatulency about the stomach, and succeeded
by sour vomiting of what has been eaten."':"" Vomiting at ftm of the food made Ul!le
of, then of bile. -Vomiting and nausea of pregnant women.
Pressure in the stomacll, in the morning, or in the course of the day, with
nausea and sudden prostration ofstrength. - Prenure in the pit of the 1tomach,
as from something .bard·in the stomach.- The pit of the atomach swollen, and
~hing aa iffestering, when tiYUChed or pre.,ed upon. - Red spots on the pit of
the stomach.- Contracting aparm in the atomach, with nausea. ....... Jerking and
graaping in the pit of the atomach. ·
Darting, drawing, tension and griping in the region ofthe liver..-.Chronic in-
tlammation of the liver. - Pains and stitches in the region of the spleen. - Spasm
. in the diaphragm when stooping.
Diltention of the abdomen. - Tumid abdomen. - Hypochondriac, pre&l!ing-
.tightening uncomfortableness in the hypogastrium. - .Preeling pain in the left
hypogastrium.- Contracting pains, like throes, in the abdomen.- Cutting and
griping i~ the abdomen in the daytime, sometimes also in the morning and at
night. - Torpor in the left side of the abdomen. - Obatructedjlatulmcy, also at
night. - Loud rolling and rumbling in the abdomen.
Conltipation, sometimes long continued, or every other day.- Frequent and
1trong urgency to stool, without, or only with a small discharge. - Hard, inter-
mittent stool. - Difficult evacuation, with a rending stinging in the rectum and
ann&- Too frequent evacuation.-Long continued loosene1111 of the bowels.- In- ·
voluntary stool11.- Blood discharged with the stool. - During and after evacuG-
tion, burning in the anus and rectum. - Rasping and throbbing in the rectum. -
Painful pile•, with a stinging sensation. - Lumbricoides. - Galling on the anus
and between the nates, chiefty when walking.- Herpes on the anus.
Frequent atrong urgency to urinate, day and nigh{, sometimes every hour,
with a copious discharge.- Disbetes.- Involuntary micturition, also when cough-
ing, walking or sneezing.- Light-colored urine, with a lateritioua, red-88ndy
sediment.-After micturition, discharge of mucus from the urethra.-Gonorrh01a
secundaria.
Itching, herpes and galling between the scrotum and thigha. - Balanoblenor-
rltaa.- Excessive excitement ofthe genitau and exaltation offantuy, or indolence
of the sexual desire. - Inetl'ectual coition. - Impotence. - After coition, l!leDiinal
emissions.
Pressure and urgency towards the genitals. - The catamenia too aoon tmtl too
profuse, or too late and sparing. - Menltruation too long continued. - Amenor-
rlala.- Protraction of the first menstrual discharge. - Headache befOre, during
and after menstruation. - Before menst~ion, penai11ene" and irritability. -
With the meii.IIC8, sadness. - During the menses, abdominal cramP., - Itching
31
Digitized by Google
Sodii cbloretum.
iA i1e pudendG. - Avension to cohabit, in women. - Sterility, with a too etn;lg
cmd profute memtrVGtion. - Acrid lettcorrh~M, with yellowne&B of countenance.
Interrupted sneezing. - Obt'ltruction and tlrynel$ oftlae no~e.- Gravedo in the
morning.- Excessive deJluxion from the noee or gravedo, with sneezing, ageusia
and anosmia.
Hoor1ene11 and sensation ofdryness in the larynx. - Accumulatiqn ofphlegm
in the larynx, in the morning.-Hawking.-Catarrhal affection of the chest, with
cough.
Cough, from tickling in the throat or the pit of the stomach, d8y and night,
particularly when walking and deep breathing.- Cough in tlae morning. -Spas-
modic suffocating cough, in the evening in bed. - Long-continued, 1hort cough,
with expectoration of phlegm and rattling in the chut.- Choking cw.gh with ez-
pectoration ofa bloody phlegm. - Phthisis pulmonalia j)Urulenta. - When wugh-
ing, heailache, as if the forehead would burst.
Short breath, when walking. - Tightne11 of the che1t, at manual labour, re-
lieved in the open air.-Wheezing when breathing, in the evening in bed.
Pain in the chest, like.an internal tension. - Stinging in the che1t and it•
lidel, with oppre&Bive respiration, also when breathing deep and coughing. -
Strong, anziotu palpitation oftlie heart, with every motion of the body, and par-
ticularly uicreased when lying on the left side.- Jerking, and a darting pain in
the region of the heart. - Irregular, intermittent heart-beating. - Fluttering mo-
tion of the heart.- Stinging in one ofthe marrume.
Pain in the 11114ll oftlae back, 41 if beaten and maimed, chiefly in the morning.
-Cutting, stinging and strong pulsation in the small of the back.-A sharp draw-
ing pain through the small of the back and lumbar region. - Wearines8and a
pressing tension and dra&Oing in the back. - Pre&Bure, etiffne&B and torpor in ~·
neck.-Thick struma.-Scabs in the arm-pit.
Wrenching pain in the jointts of the shoulder and fingers. - Weakne11 and dil-
abling heavine11 ofthe a~1. - Pain 118 if beaten in the hands and arms, chiefly
the shoulders, by which one is prohibited from moving or raising the arma.-Cir-
cular, itching, herpetic spots on the anns and hands. - Agitating pain in the
upper-&nn. - Jerks in the elbows. - Stitches in the muacles and joints of the
hands and fingers.- Brown spots on the back of the banda. - Warll in the palm
of the hand. - Dry cracked·akin, chiefly abw.t the naill. - Cold banda. - Per-
spiring hands. - Difficulty to bend the joints of the fingers. - Numbness and
tingling in the fingers.- Many hang-naill.- Panaritia.
Pain in the hip, 41 ifwenched, with a stinging sensation. - Dra!Ding pain in
tlae thighl, knee. and leg•. - Restlesane&B and twitching in the legs. - Dilabilitg
ofthe leg1, chiefly the joints of the feet.-Twitching ofthe muscles in the thighs.
- Painful decurtation ofthe tendonl ofthe bend ofthe knee.-Wrenohing pain in
the joints of the knee and foot.-Weaknesa in the knees and calves of t.he legs.-
Herpes in the bends of the knees, and the ankles of the feet.- Straining in the
legS and calves.- Great hell'llinu~ of the leg• and feet. - Burning of the feet. -
Oedema of the feet. - Cold feet. - Uloerous pain on the ankle of the foot when
&ouched or when stepping out. - Suppressed perspiration bf the feet. - Rednea
Digitized by Coogle
Sod. chlor.-Solan. marnmos.- Solan. nigr.- Spigelia. 368
ofthe big toe, with rending and stinging in it when walking or lltalldiDg.-Oirm,
attended with boring darting pain~.
t 68. Solanum mammosum.
Claickea·JIOZ·- &ylipeltu veeiculoaum.- Herpes.
Great sleepiness and weariness, without ability to aleep. - Profound sleep,
with unconeciousness when getting awake.
Feverish alteration of the faculty ofeight, with a bard pulse.
Restlessness, which ~nstantly drives one about. - Angry about fictitious
things.
Inability to think and write coherently.
Affected by the smoke of tobacco.
Twitching of the mueclee in the back. - Di8abling darting pain in the joint of
&1ae hip, when walking.
f 69. Solanum nigrum.
n. fUHa·•lflthkM.- a-. ~c,..,,...
Uud., a cmtidot~ for: eeeale comutum.
PredomintJiat effect.: Cal~• ojpoiloning, from tlte tue of bliglated com <EI'8'o-
tiemue).- Tingling in.the limbi.-Jerka.-Contraction ofthe 11exoree, as if one
would jump. - 8pGmwclic cliltortion of the limb•. - Tonic cramps. - Epileptic
ptlfWYiml.
Jruaniiy.- Fury.- Mental imbecility. - Rieue eardonicue, from dieturtion of
the facial mueclee. ·
Crooking of the luJndl. - Drawing in the tlngere. - 8pclltM U. tAe C.Zvu.-
Inward crooking of the feet.
170. Spigelia.
~ AaiMlooia.-.. Ia.UM ,au.- a-. s,;,au.
Duration ofeffect: about 5 weeks.
Ataticloter! cemphora, aurum.
U.ecl 111 on llfttidotefor: hydrargyrum.
Predominant effectl: Artltritic, darting or reruling ptrinl in the limbe.-
~ng in the vicinity of the joints, 88 if the bone were acraped with an instru-
ment. - Heav~ and eeneation 88 if beaten in the limbe. - Con.waioo& -
Digitized by Coogle
Spigelia.
Lcrtgwtw, ~ •fUr M -.,.lli.lero6k eaereile tnul ft11#11 1M ~ w.- Great
eellllitiveneas to eool air and complaints &om walking in &he opea air.
The skin of the whole body painfuDy tender to the touch. -Red pimples with
a 110re pain when touched.
Great .Jeepjraeu in the tltlytime, even in the momirag, or evening, with late
eleep after going to bed.-Ratlat, unrefreehing eleep, at night, with ree&letBne.
in the limbe:- Profound lethargic seep.
Much chiUiJJUI, chiefty in the moming and tDitl& a rmall ezercile.- Frequent
(ftuehes of) heat.- During heat, thirst for beer. - Catarrhal, pituitous and tDOmt-
jefJef"r.- Fever-paroxysms at nOOn.- Masked intermittent&, making their appear-
ance 88 a U'Jiical headache or pi'OIIOpalgia.
Sadne. and dt>jection. - ReetleeEness and tmziety, tDitA aru:Wru 10licittule
obout thefuture.- FearfulnNII. ~ mhumor, alm011t approaching to an inclination
to commit suicide.
Weaknul ofmemory.- ThougbtleelneM.- Inability to mental labour.
Dizzine. in the bead, like intoxication or obstupefaction. - Giddiness with
danger of falling, when walking, standing or looking downwards. - Giddi!Hl88
with naueea.
Headache when shaking the head, with giddineas and eeneation of heavineea.
- Headache iacreared by the leMt motion, by every etroog noise, and from·open-
ing the mouth. - Pai'ffidraeu of the occiput, with a 88Dil8tion of numbness and
torpor in the nape.- Typical headache. - Dissevering or compre11ing paia in the
head, increued when bendin$' forwards.- Paia u if'the skuft would burst, when
coughing or speaking loudly.- Boring and agitating rending headache, chiefly
when moving. - Great puleating stitches in the forehead, with a hammering sen-
sation in the ean.- Jerkl aJad il&och in the head, when walking in the open air.
-Shaking in the brain, with every step and when moving the head.
Burning pain on the exterior of the forehead and temples, extendiag to tile
eyes.- Tension of the scalp.-Tha hairy part ofthe heed painful to the touch.
Pain• .deep in the rocket• of the eye•. - Preuure uport tle eye-balll, chiefly
when turning the eyes. - Pain in the eyes when moved, a1 if the eye-bell eere
C#/4rge&.- Agitation, boring and pricking in the eye•.- Itching in the eyes.-
Dry heat and burning in the eye•, which make it necetillary to close them.- &d..
nu• of the conjunctiva, the veins being injected.- Inflammation (sometimes ar-
thritic) ofthe eyu.- Inflammation oft~ cornea.- Inflammation and ulceration
qf the lidl, with a biting sorene88.- Lustrelees dim eyes.- Blear-eyedneii.-
Acrid, biting tears. - Difficulty to raise the lids, with a painful eenl!lltion of stiff-
De& - Distortion and involuntary movement of the eyes. - Dilated pupils. -
Vanishing ofsight..- Preebyopis.- Incipient amaurosis.- Flu8bee oflight before
the eyes.
Pre•ling otalgia, 88 if occasioned by a plug.- Jerking rending in the ears.-
Jamming, itching and burning on the exterior of the ear.- Obrtructioft of the
earr, 110metimes with, other times without dysecois.- Periodical ikqfne••·-
Humming, buzzing and pW..tioo in the ean. '
Itching tJJUl tickling ia 1M aNe. - Tingling, prickling, boring and bittrtg ia
the noN.- Herpetic eruption on the nose, painful aa ifexeoria&ed.
Digitized byCoogle
Spigelia.
Pah, ct..Jgwel ~. with yellow eirelee around the eyes.- BlotJtel.
~WR of tu face, chieBy after llleep.- TypicGl proto'pGlgia. -Jerking rending,
buming and preuun .6otll tM s_ygomatic honu.- Exoetoeie of the temporal part
of the orbit.
Te~ and buming lipe.- Blackiab pimple on the upper-lip.- Prelling pGin
in tM angk of tAe lower muilla, u if in the teeth, and Ia if proceediDg fiom
the ear.
Tooth-ache, after smoking tobacco.- FOMDGrtl prelling pGiM in tAe uet!a, im-
metlictelg qfter meall, alto at Aiglt, 110 vehement, u to drive one out of bed.-
Jerking or throbbing rending tootiHcAe, chiefty in hollow teeth, i~ 6Jcoli.
fiHiter, or by expoeure to the open air. •
,Bt.e<Mia oftM fll6t&tla.- Pungent dry0888 in the mouth, in the moming when
awaking. - Much white frothy aliva in the mouth. - White or yellow mncua in
the mouth and aucee.- Cncked akin of the tongue.- Veeiclee on the tongue
and the p.llate, with a burning pain.
Sore throat, with pricking and swelling in the filueea.
Putrid, faltid taste.- AraoreziG tDitla greet tlairlt.- Avenion to smoking to-
bacco, or snuB; and coft'ee. - Bulimia, with qualmiahneu.
Eructation after every meal.- Sour eructation.- Qualmiahneee, when faet..
ing, with a eeiUI&tion, u ifaomething came from the stomach into the throat.
The stomach surcharged with phlegm. - Pre11ure in the 1tomach ancl acro-
biculua, 41 from a heavy lump. - Stitches in the region of the acrobiculua and in
thediaphngm, aometimea with obstruction of breath. • ·
The abdomen hard and painfully distended.-Pruwre in the umbilical regitm,
41/rom a hard lump. -Colicky griping in the abdomen.-Cutting in the umbilical
region, with chilla, diarrhma and fiequent micturition.-Stitches in the abdomen.
-Tightening pain in the groins, when touched.-Inguinal hernia.-Rolling and
rumbling in the abdomen.-Dilcharge offultid ftatulency.
Frequent, ineffectual urgency to atool.-Thin, white atoola.-Hard ltOOZ.'tDith
preeaure and mucla muctU,- Mucu dilclulrged .from the aatu, without the stooL
-Thin, fieculent, or m1ICOtU diorrluJIJ.- Diarrhma with griping in the bowela
and cqldnees of the body. - Lumbricoide1 and GICIIf'Ue1 dilclatlf'ged.-Itching and
crawling i!l the anus and rectum.
Whitish eediment in the urine. - l+equmt caU1 to uriftGte, tDitla a copiqu1
· dikAtzrge, all!o· at night.- Involuntary dribbling of urine, with burning in the
anterior part of the urethra.
Itching about the glans. - Swelling ofone halfofthe glana. - Erectiona with
wanton thoughts, without voluptuous excitement.- (Proatatic ftuid eacaping.)
Obetruction and dryne. of the noae, with dilcharge ofmucla white or yellow-
ish mucu., tlarovgla the potterior opming•.pftAe aote.
Catarrh with hoanenesa, constant deftuxion from the noee, dry heat without
tbirat, protruded eyes, vehement headache and inclination to weep. - Noctunaal
catarrh with cough.
Cough, provoked by the open air, with a aenation ofaorenCIIIIS in the cheat.-
Vehement hollow dry COUS"l lllitA an almoet euft'ooating obltnlction oft1ae breatla.
Preesure in the cheat, with painful opprellioa.- Ohtruction in the chut, fllitla
Digitized by Coogle
366 Spigelia. .....- Spongia tosta.
CIUieiJ aod ditlieult respiratien. - CuUiDA' and rendiug in the che& -Tighten·
in« 1Cilchu ia tlae cAat, moetiJ.when breetbiu«· - HytlretilwAZ, with orgaoie
dieordenl in the ebesL- VeMrMal, 'Yisible and audible fMlpiUJlitm of the heart,
frequently with an anzioul opprulion oftlae chut, inereued by beodin« forward
and sitting down.- Stit.ehea ia the rep,n of the heaJi.- CardiN.- Orpnie dis-
orden ofthe hearL
Pain in the back 88 if beaten, even when at rest.- Stitchu in the back, aleo
when breMbiug.- Red pimplee on the neck, with eo.re11a. to the touch. -Hard,
painfulewellin« of the glanda of the throat.
Heavioeea and tremor of the armiJ. - Arms and hands readily benumbed. -
!!'witching in the muaclea of the upper· and rore-arm. - Vehement, jerking
ltitcllu in tie 6erull oft1ae elbotn, and the joints of the hands and ftngers.-Draw-
ing and epumodic rending in the metacarpal bones. - Hard 11111aUnodes in the
palm& of the bands, with a burniiag itehillg. - Pale-yeDow banda. - Crooking of
the ftngel'l!l.- Suppurating pimples ou the fingena.
Pain 88 if beaten, tension.and 1tinging in the thighl, felt only wmen tllellang
or rGpidly f7MM~iflg.-Vehement e&Hchee in the lmee, when bent.- Painful &tiff-
, net111 of the joint of the knee.- Stinging jerks in the joints of the feet.- Exeree-
eeneeelike warts on she toea.
f 7t. Spongia to9ta.
Duration ofejfect: in chronic cues, a few weeks.
Antidote: camphors.
It Gni1D6rl VJeU after aconnum, ealcis aulphuretum.
After it annoer1 VJell: ealcia aulphuretum (in croup).
PrediJirUnant ejfect1: 4ffection oftlae glantll and lyrnplaatic tre~lell.- SVJeUing
and ir&duration of the glantll.- Senaation as if beaten in the 811118 and legs.-
Sensation of torpor in the lower half of the body.- Unwieldin.., of the bod6·-
Ezcellive mentGl and bodily relazation. - Patien~ feel the beet when iestmA' in a
horizontal posture. '
Itching pricking in the skin, chiefly when becoming warm in bed.- Czeeping
on the skin, with redness and heat of the spot, when scratched.- Red, itching
spots of the akin.- Itching eruptiona.- Miliary e.ruptiotu~o -Herpes.
Sleepl888nees with reverie~ and deliria VJhen faUing 01leep.- Sad, anxious,
frightful dreams.
Much chillineee OD the whole body, chiefly in the back.- Flushes of heaL-
Perspiration at night.
. Parozylfll' of anziety, with pain in the repn of the aerobiculus. - Ineon-
80lableneaa and inclination to weep. - Timidity and liability to be frightened. ...
lnBOlent obstinacy.- Mischievous merriment.- Great inclination to sing.
Mental hebetude, with total inability to mental labour.
Digitized by Coogle
·Spongia tosta. -361
Reeling~. vrith danger qf falling (aleo in the evening), or u if the
head would fidll!idewarde.-Giddinees with nauSea, at night, when getting awake.
· Heavine88 and fulnees of the head. - Dull pain in one half of the head, when
entering a warm roonJ from the open air.- Headache with running eyes, when
looking etaringly. - Pr~Bsing headache, sometimes compre88ing.- Headache·aB
ifthe 1kull would bur1t, chiefly in the forehead. -Throbbing and pulsation in the
head. - Conge1ticm of blood to the head.
External tenderness of the skin of the head. - Vehement itching on the scalp.
Lustreless dim eyes, with bloated lids.- PresBUre and stinging in the eye•.-
Tbe lids glued together.-A yellow-crusty eruption on the eye-brow.-Presring
. hetnlineu in the lidB.- The lids ~losed in the morning.- Myopia.
·Contracting otalgia.- Pressure and urgency in the ears.- tnceration of the
exterior of the ear.- DyBeCOia. ,
EpiBtam, chiefly after blowing the nose.- Eruption on the ROint of the nose.
Pale countenance with sunken. eyes. - Swelling qf the cheek. - Itching and
pricking on the cheeks. ·
EruptionB on the lip•. - Spasmodic pain in the mRXillary joint. - Tightening
painful ~roelling ojthe BUbmaxillary glandB.
When masticating, a senSBtion as if the teeth were set on edge and loose. ....,..
Itching and stinging in the teeth. - Swelling of the gums, with pain when mas-
ticating.
The mouth and tongue full of vesicles, with a pricking and burning pain.-
&livation. -Weak speech.
Burning and pricking in the throat.
Taste diminished.- Bitter ta.te, only in the throat. - Sweetish taste in the
mouth. - Diminished appetite ana soon SBtiated. - Strong, imatiable hunger.-
Tobacco-smoking causes uncomforutblene88.- After meals, fulness and uncom-
fortableness in the abdomen, as iffrom indigestion.
Eructation, cutting and rending in the stomach.- Bitter eructation. - Sour
regurgitation. - Frequent hickupping. - Nausea, with much sourness in the
mouth. - Vomiting at\er the use ofmilk.
Flaccidity of the stomach, with a senSBtion asifit were open.- PreSBUre in
the stomach and scrobiculus. - The cloths cause a pre88Ure about the stomach.
..-Coatracting pain in the stomach.
The abdomen hard and distended. - Abdominal cramps.- Agitation and ur-
ging in the abdomen.- Cutting in the abdomen, after meals.- Grumbling and
nunbling in the abdomen, chiefly iq the evening, and in the morning, when lying
down. - Pain in the inguinal rioJ, as if occasioned by a hernia. - Swelling of
the inguinal gland& ·
Stool hard and retarded. - White purgiag stools. - Before evacuatioo, Janci.
oat.iDg pain in the anus, and rumbling in the abdomen. - During stool, an ur-
gency in the anua.- Itching, fretting and a sensation ofaorenees on the anus.-
Aacaridee and a creeping sensation in the rectum.
Increued secretion of urine. - Incontinence of the urine.- Thin atream of
. urine.-Frothy urine.-Thick, grayieh·white or yellow sediment in the urine.
Cramping and urging pain in the testicles.- Hard BIIJeUing ofthe tuticleB and
aeminal cord, with a 'pressing pain.-Weak I8X\18ldesire.-Deficiency ofereclioDe.
Digitized by Coogle
368 Spongia tosta. - Stannum.
Menstruation too early and too profuee. - Before menatruation, palpitation o(
the heart. and pain in the back.- During menstruation, drawing in the thigh&
Hoaraene11, with rough and coryza.- Husky, weak voice, which fails when
singing or speaking.-Pain in the larynz, when it iB touched or the neck turned.-
Preesure in the larynx, when singing.- Sensation of obstruction in the larynz,
with impeded respiration.- 11f114mmation ofthe larynz, trachea and broncbia.-
Croup.- PhthiBiB laryngea.
Cough, deep from the chest, with a eeneation of eoreneae and burning in it.-
Long continued.cough, with hoarseneae and a yellowish expectoration.- HollotD,
bellowing, dry cough, day and night, increased towards evening.
Slow and deep respiration , 88 if from weakneae.- Wheezing inspiration. -
Attacks ofrattling in the trachea.
Painful tightneae of the chest. - Fulnese and narrowneae of the chest. -
Stitches in the chest.- Burning, rising up in the cheat. - Agitation of the blood
in the cheat, after the leut ezertion or mation, with obstruction of the breath,
anxiety, nausea and weakneae approaching syncope. - Paine and anxiety in the
region of the heart.
The email of the back and buttocks 88 if torpid.- Painful ten.non and atiffnen
ofthe muaclea ofthe neck and nape. - Large, also hard, atrumoua swellings, with
pressure, creeping and etinging.-·spaems in the muscles ofthe neck.
Twitching ofthe muscles in the axillary joint. - Heavineae and tremor of the
fore-arms and bands.- Drawing in the fore-arma and wrists.- Large bladden
on the fore-arm.-Swelling of the bands, with etitfneae ofthe fingers.- Redness
and swelling of the jointa of the fingers, with straining when bent.- Torpor in
the pointe of the fingers.
Twitching of the muscles of the buttocks. ~Spaemodic drawing forwards and
backwards of the thighs. - Stitfneee of the legs. - Drawing and rending in the
legs and feet, also only at night.
t 72. Stannum.
Duration ofeffect: about 6 weeks.
Antidotes: pulsatilla, eoft"ea tosta.
It anBtDerB well qfter eausticum.
Predominant effects: Pr~Bing drawing pains, ch~y in the liu, graduaDy
increasing to a great vehemence and decreasing in the 1!8Dle W!'Y· - Hysteric and
hypochondriac cramps and pains.- Epileptic convulsions ofchildren, during denti-
tion.- Epilept«- parozyBmB, in the evening, attended with clinching the tbumbl
and toseing about.- EzceaBive emaciation.- Cot;~sumption and phthisis. - P~~r(,.
lytic affections, also without apoplexia.- Great unwieldineae and eluggishnea-
Exceeeive relaxation and mental and lxHlily wllknua, with tremor, the moet when
moving slowly.-Very mueb fatigued by speaking.-When walking, all the com-
plaints, except the weakneae, which ie then the weN&, eeem to dil!eppear, aucl to
return immediately, when ~t reet again.
Digitized by Coogle
Stannum. 369
Itching (bumiog). slinging all over the akin of ilie body. - Chilblaios. -
Hang-nail&
~leepiness in ilie ~yume.- Much gaping.wiili oppreesion~of t.jle chest, u if a
hoop were laid around it. -Late sleep. - Unrefresbed in the morning.- Pro-
found sleep. - Nocturnal restle81mess and many wanton, anxious, onimatefl
drea1118. - Lamenting, weeping and fearful moaning in sleep.
Chilliness and shivering in the forenoon, with coldness ofthe hands and torpor
of ~be points of the fingers. - Chilliness along the beck, in the evening, or only
on the head, with thirst. - Burning heu.t in the limb•. - Anziolu m&~Gtion qf
,heat, lllilh the leut mation.-.Hectic fevers.- Worm-fever. -DebilitGting,night·
noeot1.- Profuse perspiration in the morning.
Sad, hypochondriac humour• ...;.. Great restle1me11 ond ononety, pensiveness
and inclination to weep. - Fruitless acuvity. - Dejection.- Fretful, silent pee-
vishness, wiili aversion to talk and company.- (Somnambulism.)
Giddiness, 88 if all objects were too fur distant.- Giddine., in sitting, wi~b
vanishing of thought&
HctsdtJche, with fUJUICIJ and choking, sometimes burning in the forehead, eyes
and noee, or in ilie morning, with peevishness.- Hutlinu• Gnd •tupefyiagJWUo
nre in the head, chietly moving about in the foreheo.d. - Spumodic headache, as
ifthe head were distended, screlved Wgether, or constricted.- Pressing drawing
and rending in the bead. - Boring headache. - Throbbing headache in the wn-
ples.- Painful jerbthrough the head.
Pain in the eyes, 88 if they were sore by rubbing.- Pru~t~.re in the ~ and
canthi.- Burning stitches in the eye-lid.- Itching, biting and burning in the
eyes. - Hordeolum. - The eyu glved together ot night. - Ulcers on ilie in~or
canthus, like a fistula laehrymalis. - Weok, l.utrelu1 eye•. - Twite~ and
quivering of the eyes. - Distorted or protruded eyes. - Rainbow colors around
the light. .
Drawing rending otalgia. - Ulceration of the ring-hole in the ear-ftap.-
Tingling in the eara.- Shrieking sound in ~he e$1'8, when blowing the noee.
Heaviness in the upper·pan of ilie nose, and 88 if it were obstructed.- In-
ftammation of the interior ofthe noee.
Pole BUnken eoamteunce, wit.\ ~t~nken eyu. -Long continued, pressing,
drawing :Jif'Oiopolgt., chiefty on. the zygomatic bone and the orbit of the eye.-
StiDging burning pain in the &eial mueeles. - SweUing of the cheeb and upper
maxilla.-:- Spasm in the jaws. - Painful swelling ofthe submaxillary glands.
Jerking tooth-ache, after meals, with hw in the faee.-Loosenesa ofthe teeth.
- Ulcer on the gums, with swelling ofthe cheeks.
Stench of the mou~b. - Sourish saliva ftowing out from the mouth.- Di.lfi-
calt, ueok qeec4, oocaaieoed by weak.nee.
Sore throat, as from an internal swelling, with drawing and tension.- Pun-
gent •eruation of drynu• in the throat. - Roughness and scraping sensation in
the throa&, chiely in the eveniug.- JVuch phlegm ita the throtll G1ttl moutA, with
irri&ation &o hawk, and 88Diation ofIOI'elle&a from it.
Bitter and eour &u&e.-AD food tastes bitter.- Beer taetee bitter and herby.-
Digitized by Coogle
310 Stannum.
lncreued, almost insatiable hunger.- Increased thirst.- After meals, nliUBea
and vomiting.
Eructation 118 after·rotten eggs, or bitter and sour.- Frequent hickupping.
Nmuea, chiefly after meal1, and succeeded by watery bitter vomitl.- Vehe-
,ment vomiturition, succeeded by vomits ofundige~~ted food.
Pre1mre in the ltomtJCh, sometimes very violent. - Straining pre1mre in tAe
flit of the 1tomacla, which is painful to the touch, 118 if festering.- Spama in tAe
6tomacll, aho chronic, chiefly with bitter eructation, sensation ofhunger and ttiar-
rbala.-Grasping in the stomach and about the navel, with nausea.
Dull shooks through the hypochondres. - Spama ·in tile region of the dia-
phragm. - Pressure and burning in the hepatic region. - Pressure, spasm and
pungency in the left hypochondrium.
The abdomen is painfully distended and painful to the touch. - Hy1teric and
hypochondriac abdominal cramp1, with pain above and below the naveL- Agita-
tion, griping and cutting in the abdomen.- Burning and darting.in the abdomen. ,
- Sensation of soreness in the abdomen, increMed by touching. - Sensation of
emptineM in the abdomen.- Obltructedjlatulency.
Constipation.- Frequent, ineffectual urgency to evacuate.- Hard, dry, clotty
or sparing greenish stooL-Mucous stools.-Tape-worm discharged.
Retention of urine. - Sparing urinal discharge.- Frequent calh to urinate.-
Too little desire to urinate, as iffrom atony ofthe bladder.
lncreued 1exual derire. - Vehement, voluptuous irritation to coition. - Fre-
quent seminal emission& ·
Augmented menstrual discharge.-Before menstruation, pains in the abdomen.
- Leucorrhc:ea ofa pellucid mucus, with great 1088 ofstrength.- Uterine spaams.
Gravedo ofone Bide of the nose, with swelling and redness ofthat nostriL
Hoar1ene11 and roughne11 of the larynz, with a tickling irritation to eou~h.­
Long continued catarrh.- Much phlegm in the trache11, which is 8118ily expecto-
rated by a slight cough. -Exalted voice, at'ter hawking up phlegm. - Phthiria
laryngea.
Cough excited by: laughing, talking and singing, or from tickling in the chest.
--:V~hement, conc1188ive, dry cough, in the evening in bed, continued un~ mid-
night, and the most vehement in the morning.- Humid cough.- Cough, tDith
copioU. expectoration of phlegm. - Phthiria muco~a.. - Consumptive cough. -
Viscid and clotty, or watery and thin mucous, or putrid tft8ting, yellow, saltiab,
or greenilla, 1weetilh expectoration with the cough. - After expectoration, a sen-
sation ofsoreness in the chest.- Phthiria ulcerola.
Ob1truction of the breath, at night, when lying or in the daytime, with e"fery
movement.- Tightne11 ofthe che1t, in tAe e11enmg, with a sensation ofemptinees·
in t.he pit of the titomach and an~iety, which makes it necessary to unbutton the
cloths.- Oppression of the chest, when walking or IUicending a height.-Wheez.
ing and rattling in the chest.- When drawing a deep bnath, a senation ofcom-
fortable lightness.
Pain in the chest, as if beaten.- Pressure deep in t.he chest, as if from a
wei!ht. - Tension acrose the chest. - Stitchel in the ¥ Wle of the ehelt, when ·
breathing and lying on the right side.-· Semation of tomaen ir& the o/allt.-
Digitized by Coogle
Stannum.-Staphisagria. 371
&n.aticm ojrDealmul in tlte cAut, as ifempty and evilceriat.ed.-Hydrothona.-
(Bad mother's milk, diaguating the child.)
Opiathotonua. -Stitches in the ahoulder-bladea and the neek.- Weakneae of
the muacles of the neck, and tbe cervical vertebne knacking when the head ia
ehaken.
Disabling pain in the axillary joint. - Dilabling hetwineu in the anu. -
Preaaiug rending in the muacles and joint& of the upper-lli1DII, banda and finger&
- WeaknC88 and tremor of the banda.
8tDelling of the 1&tmdl, in the evening, - Jerking of the banda.- Vehement
burning in the hand$. - Small red spots on the back of the hand. - Chilblaina on
the hand. - Crooking of the fingers. - Clinching the thumbs. - Pricking in the
points of the fingers.- Painful hang-naila.
Preaaing drawing and 'fending in the hip, extending over the amall of the back
md down to the knees. - Dilabling tDeakae11 and hemnnu1 of the leg•. - The
knees giving way when walking.- Stiffileaa and teneion in the bend of the knee.
-Sensation of heat and burning in tl~ feet. - Rending jerks in the ankles of the
foot, extending into the toea.- 8tDeUing ofthe anlde1, in the evening.- Reddiah ·
tumefitetion of the foot.
t 73. Staphisagria.
Duration !ifeffect: a few weeks.
Atatidotu: ambra, camphors.
U1ed u an antidotefor: eolocynthia.
It annoer• tDeU after thuya.
Predominant e.ffectl: Dilabling clraiDing in tlte jointl, chiefly when the parte
are moved or in an uncomfortable position. - Dri1.1Ding rending in the mtUClu,
ehiefty when sitting.- Deeply penetrating, sharp stitches, on many plaees.-
Spasm in the limbs. - Arthritic nodu on the joints. - &rophuhnu and rhaehiiic
complaint1. - Painful inflammation of bones. - Carie& - Ctmaplaintl and lHul
C0111equence• of the miltue ofmercury, of onanilm, ofanger IDith indignation, or ·
ofaorrow and grie£- Gastric and bilious, hysteric and hypoclwndriac complaint~.
- Epileptic paroxyi!JDII.
General painfulne88 of the muaclea when touched, alao of the joints when
moved.- Great 1Deaknu1 md sensation as if beaten, woree when exercising, better
when siuing or lying down. - Great '!earineu in the morning, with a&iftheea of
all the joints. - After the midday..Wp, dizzineaa, and beavineea in the limbl.
Creeping and itching over the whole body, ehiefty in the morning.- Lfn1K
continued miliary eruptionl.-ltching oozing eruption ofpimples, with a burning
pain. - Herpetic eruption~, with itching in the evening, IUld burning when
ecratched. - The akin difficult to be healed and readily suppurating.- Frequent
funmelea. - Ulcera with a rending etinging or itching biting.- Twitching and
rending about the ulcera, chiefty in the evening and morning. - Out toOUU.
laeakcl.
Digitized by Coogle
372 Staphisagria.
Gre4l tleepi~test in tM tlaytim8.- ExcesritHJ ltretcAing and gaping, that the
eyes run with water.- Late sleep, from a multitude qf thoughts, or itching and
·b,uming o'ftbe tetter and ulceM, or from vehement pains in the calves.- Jerking
of the limbs in sleep.- Restless sleep at night, with anxious dreams. and frequent
frightful awaking.-Wanton dreams.
Much chilliness and chilly shivering, even at night. -Intermittents, only with
a cold stage, in the e11ening.- External burning heat, with agitation of the blood
and thirst.- Violent heat in the hands and feet, which makes it necessary to un-
cover them, at ni!!·ht.- Great propensity to per3piration, in the day, even when
sitting quiet. - Profll8e pet"spiration at 11ight, also of e1 putrid smell. - Tertian
fever with .scorbutic complaints, putrid taste in the mouth, bleeding gums, ano-
rexia and constipation.
Hypoclt.ondriac humor, with indifference to every thing. - 8adne88, with ·soli-
citude about futurity. - Weeping and sorrow about his condition. - Longing fur
death. ~ Anxiety ud restlessness, which allows of no rest in any plaee.- Fret-
ful peevishneiS with excesrir~ely ill humor. - Disinclination for talking, reflection
and every mental occupation. ·
Weakne88 ofmemory.- Unsteadiness of ideas.- Great mental hebetude, with
inability to any labour.- Illusions of phantasy, by imaginations from the time
past.-Impression, as ifa precipice were under him, and he himself much greater.
The head muddled and dizzy.- Vertigo, also i~ the evening in bed, or in the
day, when sitting or lying down, relieved by walking about.
Headache in the morning, when awaking as if the brain were dilaeerated.-
Stunning pain in the head, sometimes alternating with a boring sensation.-
Heaviness ofthe head, chiefly the forehead, above the root of the nose.-Drawing,
rending or stinging pressure in the head. - Headache, as if the skull would buret,
when stooping ahd moving. - Compressing or dissevering pains in the head.-
Pain in one half of the head, as ifa nail stuck in the brain.- Singing headache.
- A sensation, as if the brain were loose. ·
Rheumatic drawing pain externally on the head. - Creeping or fretting itch-
ing on the ecalp, with a sensation of eorenet!S.·- Much itching dandruff (m the
tcalp.- Oozing fretitl scald, vehemently itching.-The hair falling off.
The eyes as iffull of sleep. - Pre88ure in the eyes, lids and canthi. - Itching
in the matgins of the lids. - Itching and biting rasping in the internal c11nthi. -
Biting' and burning in the eyes, when writing.- Violent stitchet'l in the eyes,
when they .are exerted.- In}lelmmation of the eye•, with etlloreecence around
them. - h}lelmmation oftl&e margins oftAe eye-lids. - Node• in the margins of
e1t.e Udi.-Great dryne88 oftlt.e eye1.-Mueh dry purulent mucus in the canthi.-
The Udl glued together. -Spasmodic contraction of the lids. -Diminished sight.
- Dimsightedne88, as if from water in the eyes.- Blaek flashes and glistering
before the eyes. - Sparks before the eyes, in the dark. - A lustre around the
candle, in th~ evening.
&ingittg mtke ears. - Eruption behind the ears. - Dy1ecoia, occasioned by
a enlargement of the tORSU., chisjly qfter the 'misuse ofmercury. - Tingling in
the ears.
·Ulceration ofthe nose, and scabs deep in its interior.
Digitized by Coogle
Staphisagria. 373
Shrunken eouf\tenanee, with bo!Jow, blue-borderal eyes.-Vehemently pree-
l!ing and throbbing prosopalgia, f~m the teeth extending to the eye.- Injldmma-
tif"' ofthefacial bonea, with a burning stinging, or cutting drawing and pressing
rending.- Ef'tlption in the face, with itching and stinging.
The lipB fuU of ulcers aud scurfs, and attended by a burning pt~in....... The
· maxillary joint is readily wrenched.- Painful melling ofthe rubma.riUaryglanth.
Tooth-ache, with swelling of the cheek and submaxillary glands.- Arthritic
and rheumatic tooth·af:he.- Tooth-ache, immediately after meals, and after masti-
cating, also qfter drinking cold liquids, and from the inhalation ofcold air; cqm-
monly the worst at night or in the m~ning. - Pressing drawing 11nd rending in
hollow teeth, or in the roots of the sound teeth and the gums.- Fretting pain in
hollow teeth.- The teeth getting black, exfoliating and hoUow.-The gums pain-
ful, swollen and eamy bleeding.- Pairiful excrescences and nodes on the guma.-
Pale, white, ulcerated gums.
I
Mouth and tongue full of vesicles.- Pairiful excrescence• on the interior wr-
face of the cheeli. - Salivation. - Bloody saliva. - The glands under ~e tongu~
swollen.- Stinging in the tongue as from splinters.-Weak speech, from weak-
ness of the organs ofspeaking. · .
Roug'4ne11 and itching in the throat, with a sensation or soreness in it, when
speaking or swallowing. - l)ryness and stinging in the throat, and on the palate•
..:....Swelling ofthe tonsils. ·
Insipid, watery taste, the food tastes right.- Sour taste ofbread.- Appetite
with tastelessness of food.- Greediness.- Bulimia, also with a full stomach.-
Great desire for milk.-Tobacco tastes acrid and causes heart-bum. ·
Eructation; mostly vacant or scraping. -Water-brash.- Nausea, with reidi-
ness to vomit, every morning. · ·
Pressure in the stomach, as if from a weight , in the morning in bed. - Ful-
ness, ·pressure and stinging in th~ pit of the stomach.-Uprooting pain in the
stomach.-Anxious tension obliquely over thehypochondres, in the morning, with
oppression o( the breath. .
Tightening pressing pain in the abdomen.- Tumid abdomen, in children.-
Drawing sensation obliquely through the abdomen. - Cutting in the abdomen
after eating and drinking. - Spasmodic cutting in the abdomen, with urgency to
stool.- Copious production and obstruction o( ft11tulency. - Copious discharge of
fretid or hot flatulency.- Swelling of.the inguinal glands.- Inguinal hernia.
Constipation;- CostiveneSB.- Frequent urg:ency to stool, with' thin shaped,
hard, BmaU evacuations.- Difficult evacuation.- Dysenteric stools, attended with
cutting noel urgency in the abdomen before, during and after evacuation.- Pur-
ging stools, with copious discharge of wind.- Unobserved discharge of liquid
stool.- During stools, burning cutting, pressure and constriction in the anus.
Frequent calls to urinate; the dark-colored urine discharged in small quantity
and a thin stream, or by drops. - Frequent discharge of red urine. - Involuntary
discharge of urine with the cough.- After micturition, a continued urgency, as
if the bladder were not emptied..:.... Burning in the urethra, also during micturition.
On the glans penis and behind it, soft, oozing excrescencee.-(Condylomata.)-
Injlammation of the testicle•, with burning stinging or pressing drawing and ren-
. di.Dg.-Excited sexual desire, with many erections, chiefly at night.-Voluptuous
32
Digitized by Coogle
374 Staphisagria. - Stramonium.
itching on the.ecrotum, with irritation to coition.- Prostatic .ftaid escaping ·with
a difficult evacuation.- Many seminal enmsiom, even during the midday-eleep•.
-After coition, tightneee of the chest.
Painful sensitiveness of the genitals. - Stinging itching and biting on tl,le pu-
denda.- Oaritis.- Menstruation too early.
Copious defluxion from the nose, with obetruction ofqne halfof the nose, much
sneezing and running ofthe eylis.- Coryza, with ulcerated nostrils.
Hoarseness, with much adhering phlegm in the larynx and chest.
Cough from a tickling irritation, only in the day-time.- Vehement cough, with
ezpectoration ofa viscid phlegm, in the evening, after going to bed.-Cough with
a yellow purulent expectoration, chietly at night.- Blood ejected with the cough.
- When coughing, a pain in the chest uifulcerated.
Pressure and heaviness in the chest, when sitting, relieved by walking. -Con-
tracting oppression and great restleSBnf!BB in the chest. - Stitches in the chest.-
Sensation of soreness and ulceration in the che1t. - Vibrating palpitation of the
heart, from the least motion or mental exertion, also when listf>ning to music, and
after the midday-sleep.- Miliary eruption on the breast, with redness and itching
in the warmth.- Herpetic eruption on the inferior ribs, with a burning itching.
Pain'in the ~ of the back, as ifit were broken or injured by lifting, chietly
when at reat, and mostly ai night and in the morning. - Pain in the small of the
back,.when rising from sitting and turning the body in bed.- Violent stitches on
the higher part of the back.-Abscess in the musculus Jl80II8. - Rheumatic dratD-
ing pressure and tension in the neck, with stiffness. -Weakness in the muscles of
the neck and nape.- Itching eftloreseence on the nape.- SweUing of the glands
ofthe throat, neck and arill111. - Stitches in the arm-pit.
Pressing ~nsation on the shoulders.- Stiffness ofthe joint ofthe shoulder, in
the morning.- Pain in the brachial bones, when moved.- Disabling pressing
drawing and stinging rending in the upper- andfore-arms, shoulders, hands and
fingers.-Painful preasure in the brachial bone.-Herpes on the hands.- Numb-
ness of the points ofthe fingers.- Jerking rending in the fingers, particularly the
points. - Arthritic nodes ofthe finger-joints. - Spasm in the fingers. - Convul-
sive motions of the fingers.
Gout in the hip, with throbbing pains a8 if from incipient suppuration. -Stiff-
ness of the joints of the hips, in the morning. ..,... Painful weakness of the thighs
and legs, and particularly the'joints of the knees.-Pain as if beaten in the thighs,
when walking. - Itching herpes on the thighs and legs.- Drawing stinging in
the knees·and joints of the knees. - Pressing rending and drawing on the shin-
bones and in the bones of the foot.- Spasm in the calves, and soles qf the feet, at
night. - Swelling of the ridge of the foot. - Swelling of a metatarsal bone. -
Burning itching 01' the toes, a8 ifthey were frost-bitten.
17.4. Stramonium.
D••• tlr••oroi••·- 'l'Aorro-•pple.- o-. Stechp(<l.
Duration ofeffect: from three to four days.
Antidotes: acetum, belladonna, nux vom., tabaeum.
V.ed as an antidote for hydrargyrum, plumbum.
Digitized by Coogle
Stramonium. 375
Predominant ~feci.: Drawing, diabliug, ~ pain~ in tAe """"'" cmcl
joiau qf.tlae limln. - .A aenaation u ifthe limbe were eeparated from the bddy. -
Contracting spasm in the limbe.- Tiftgling in tAe limb•.-The limbs gradoaDy '
crooked and stretched. - ~ pGf"(XX:y""' ofclffferent 1ciraM, al8o from mer-
curial vaP,ur and from fright.- Tetanu..- Opisthotonu.,-llylteric 8pGifM Gnd
otAer compltJint1.- Stiflbeee and contraction ofsingle limbs. - Cataleptic •ti.ffnu•
Gf tAe tDhole body. - Agility of tlte limb•, or great heavinees of them.- C1wreG
&. Viti.- Convulliw motiolu cmd jerb, originating ehiefty when touched, or
gazing at shining things (viz. a light, looking-glue, water), or appearing periodi-
cally.- E,ikptic oonwlftoftl, tDitl ~. - ParoxJ81D8 of aynoope with
stertorous reepiration.- Tremor qftlae limhf.-TG«ering of the limbe when walk-
ing and standing. - Ptlf'Glym, also after.tJfiOPluJ. - Weakneae with a neceeeity
to lie down.- 1!/uppreuiihl ofGil ~ecreticml cmcl ucmionl.
/h~cl ~...... Formication under the skin.
Great sleepine88 in the day-time. - Profbund eleep, with stertorous reepira-
tioa, shriekiDg and howling. -Letltn'gja, with a comic, grave appearance. when
getting awake.- Reatle88 sleep with animated dreams.-Kneeling poeition in bed
and startling from the least tooeh, with shrieking and wild gestures.
Coldtln• oftke tDhole botlg, claiejly the limln, with jerks and a general shaking
ehilline-.-Cold hands and feet with a red countenance.- Hellt tDitA cm.ri8i, and
rednees of the cheeb, or with thirat and vomiting.- Heat in the head, aoeeeeded
by general coldne88 and then heat and thirat.- N~ f~, toitl ~
taU~. - Worm·fever.- &ull, quick pulle.-Frequent, copiotu P'f'lflir•tion, U!o
at night. · · ·
., Melcmclaoly.- Sednet111 with an~iah and vehement weeping, ohiefty in the
evening in bed.-Alarmed conscience. -IneoniOltrble cntd -.ery lftiiCl qffectecl·bf
trijfu. -Greet activity, and hutinees in every movement. -Caprice and obeti- '
naey.- LtnMJ.Iavgling, alternating with fretfulnees or moaning. -Shrieking and
moaning. - Colllltant murmuring or shrieking. - Violent jttror, with deaire to
murder, .flinging and pruning tDith lumtl. •Jill foet, and desire to bite.- llf#lro-
~.-Sometimes indi11'erent with respect to hie bwineae, sometilll8 awdous
of being not fit for it.- Duirefor comptmg, liglat and sun-shine; darkuees and
eolitude aggravating the Dte of the mind. -~rthe autumnal equinox, the state
ofthe mind is the wont.
Loes of inemory. - 8tupenWm ofGil tM leftiU, and not affi!eted by extemal
impreasioJUJ.- Uneonseiowlnees, with internall'811t1e88ne&-Mental imbecility;;_,
Deliria, also frightful- Illusious of Cantuy, u if every thing around him were
lllllall, but he himeelfgreat and elevated.- DeliritJ, with fllrange idea&- Mental
confusion.-.lmGttity, particularly accompanied by tltAUmeroufantatieal imagWa-
tJticml, tDcmton talking, eonve1'18tion with speetrea, qffecting politeneu, dancing,
laughing and ffinging about. or colllltant GltemtJtion tDitA ridicalou jem, and •acl
·grave beluniotlr.
Jntoxieatioft and obetupefiaotion. - GUllineu tDitA ruling cntd loUer'if16, or
rib obeeuration ofsight and headache.
-~ tDitA oheurGtioft qfliglt, aDd d:JMCOia.- Unpleuant lightaftB and
weakneel in the head. -Throbbing headache on the •ertex, with puoxyiiU of
Digitized by Coogle
376 Stramonium.
11yneope.-Coagellitm tif1M blofHl to tlae Mad, with heat in i&. - Hydrocepbalus
interaua.-.Rs~ioa nloot&~ mehonl oftlae INIICI.-The head drawn back-
ward&- Frequently railing the he&<l from the pillow.
Bed and 110ollcn tgU.-Pre~~~ure and tensioo in the eyes and lida.-1~
tion of1M flltWgtu oftlte liM.-UJoerated lids.- R-nt.g tyfB. -The lids glued
together at night.- &tiring, glUteritag eye•.- Cloudy, sad look.-Paralysis and
11peamodic eontraction of the lid&- Distortion of the eye~~.- DiUJted, and inlleo-
llible pttpih.- ONcurotion of(he ~·- Tra!lllient Windnet111. ..-. MyopU..- Diplo-
pia. - lrulistinct, eonfulled vilion. - Dtruightednel& - The Jetten .running t.
gether, when readiaA'.-.llttuiofu of-Nilm, things appear oblique or colored.
Air pallle8 out from the ean.- Dpeeoi&
Stupid and dia&empered countenance, wilh a behavioor wh~h expre1!168 f~.
-Painfully diltorted counleMMe• ..-Shrivelled faee, wi&h deep wrinkles.- A
cheerful IUIOllenface, P'fl"ed up uritA blood.-Exceuively pale or brig/at-red coun-
tenarace.- Ery&ipelall, on one Bide of the face nod noee.
The lip11 dry and glued together.- A yellow etreak in the red part of the lips.
..:.. Tremor ofthe Jipe.- Diatortion ofthe mouth.
GtaluhiJag of tile teeth.- Throbbing tooth-aebe, u ifthe teeth would filii out.
Drytiq• ttfthe fJIOOtla.- Copious salivation.-BloodyfrotA before tbe mouth.-
lhemoptoe.-Swollen maimed t.ongue.-Imperfectly~pBfJkirlg and ~g.­
Couetant m~urblg.- TttGl ~echlUI1f.e11.
~it: c:on~trictioa ofthe p/lllryrt~:. - Difficalt deglutition, wi&h etillging in
the pharyu, or with pre811111'8 in the submaxillary pod11.- Deglutititna, impellel
by drynee~~ in the throat. •
Lose of &aste. - Food wtu 1tmtly or coor1e. - Conet.nt bitteme1111 in t•e
mouth, with bit.ter taste of the food.- Vehement tlir•t, mottly 1IJitA tnerritm to
.IDIII.er and all liqvitll.
Enlotalioa with a sour taste. -Watery vomiting, with paine in &be abdomen
and diarrhcea. - Vomits with a sour etencb or of greenish mucus. - Greenilh
.-u of~. after a 11mall exercise.
Biting w pl'efiBing pain in the lltomach. - Gnat ~ty obotll 1/ae pit of tlw
•tOffWICI&, with di.fficult breathing.-Gaatritie.
Tile abdomen painful to the touch.- Hard, ten1111, ~-ed abdomen.-Paia u
if beaten in the abdomen, when moving.- Violent rendiDg in the abdomen, as if
the uvel would be tom ou&. ..:.. Hyllteric IJbdomiMI .,omu.- S.
welling ofthe in-
guinal glands.- RoUing aod fermentation in the abd0111en. - Copious dit:eharge
ofwind.
<lnutipotto..- Ineffectual urgency to e&ooL - Ev.cuations with a cadavet:Oua
e&enab.- Diarrham with pain aud rolling in the abciQJDeD.- Coagulated biCMd di&o
a~ from &he an011.
~ Herelton 1Jj11ri~~e. -The urine diieharged by drope with a frequent
urgency.- Involuntary micturition.- (Flow of urine.) .
Luatfuln-.- Impotence.
]ncr'""" taeUttul wclaargt, with black bloocl in larp, ooagulated lumps.-
Metrorrlaogio. -During menstruation a goetiah eteoeh of the body, creat talbo
tivene., drawiJII in the ftbdomea and tbigbL - After meutruation~ IObbiDs·and
mo8Ding.;;- Puerperal fever.
Digitized by Coogle
Stramonium. - Strontianz carbonas.
Obetruetion ofthe noee.- Eultecl, eereamiog Yoiee.
Want of breath.- Difficult eigbiilg reapiraiiou.- 8~ olletruct:iDn of
. the breath.-Conetringing oppl'el!lion ofthe chee&.
8pulll it& 1M eMit, with hysteric pei'IIOD8, aJeo ooeuioned by 11pumt1 fli the
peetoral muaclee.-Prt!IIIIUI'e in the chad, occasioned by apeakiug.- A lleiiiUion
as ifsomething were turning aboni in the chee&. - Po'elliDODia nerve..
Pain as ifbeaten in the back, when eKercieing. -Drawiog and reJidin«ili the
back and acral region.- OpWtltotom~&
The arma eroeeed.-TAe.,.,.., OOA~ fftDHd over the head.-~
pain in the upper-arm, with acute ll&itebee in the fore·arm.-Diltortion-of,&Jle
hand& -The hand ·clinched lO a fiat.- Spasm in the hands.- 7m.or·of 1M
luJnd..- Nambneee of the fin«ers.
Puehing pu i" 1M kg•, which are drawn inward&- Drawi~ in the 'thigh&
- nelep Aiviug way when walking.- 7Mnor of1Mfeet.- Contracting spUm
in the feet.
175; Strontianre carbonas.
Durt~titnt. of~«t: about 7 week&
Antidote: camphora.
PmlotniMfll tJ[tJCtl: Rmding in the limbe, chiefty tlae joint•, most vehe.-nt
,in the evening aDd a night in bed.- Unwieldineea of the limb8 on one Mlfof.the
body, like hemiplegia, in the evening.- Greet emGCictioft.-Tremor ofthe limbe.
-The most pains difficult to dia&inguieh with respect to the place, eeem to bave·
their eeet in the manow of the hollow bonee.(!)-The paina gradaally increa.e to
a considerable height and deereaee in the eame way.- Prevailing affection of one
half of the body. - In the OJM'D air, ehiefty in the wumth of the sun, and in the
mmth in general the state of health ia the beet.- Grn& weeknee~ and languor
in the morning.and eveaiog. · ·
Temioa of the akin on difterent placee, in the evening when lying in bed.-
Eruption of 8mall pimples on many placee, with a burning itching, chiefty after
aeratching.
Le,te sleep.- Jerking iD the body and startling when &lliug uleep.- JW.;
quntly ,_tJlcing fit fli6lat, cbiefty oceuioned by a dry cough. - Sleep fWI of
reveries and dreama.
ChiUa in the forenoon and ev~.-Heat, &om the noee and mouth, attenaed
with thint.-Dry heat at night.-Prof\Jee perspiration at night, and when a limb
ia uncovered, immediately pain in it.- Perspiration of the part aftected.
Timidity and anxiety.- Peevilhrae1i, with propensity to "ft!helllt'nce and anger.
Great forgetfulneaa. '
Headache, with nau~~e& and giddineaa. - Pressure in the forehead. - Tiglaten-
irw heflflllclae, u if the skin on the vertex weft! stretched or the head distended
from infide.-Darting hetltltM:Iae.-Reverbera~ ~~&nation in the tempke, in the
Digitized by Coogle
Sttontian~ carbonas. - Suecinum.
- ' '
e•eDiog. -SeDation of gNU h• in tJae bead aad &ee, jn tJae afteraoea, when
waJkiltr, witb redDell oloounteuaoe, anxiety 1Dd .-p~a-.·
Burning in 'be eyes. - PJ'eiiUJ'e upon the 81lperior part e( tbe eye·t.ll.-
Va~ twitcbln~ aac1 qui•ering in the lid& -Red aad Wae circae. be~ the
ey-, aAer rub!Jill«, wi&h pteiBW'e in them, • ha .ad.- Gliaeriu~ llefOre the
eyee.-Greea apota bebe·the eye.. in the dark.
~in the ean.- BIHIIEiag ill the eM"B.
Qui•ering in one side of the noee. - Bloody ci'UIUI blowaeat. &om &he DCI8e.
.
....._ofcoanteniiDM with burDiD8' hea&.-1~ in the filce.-Twilebing
ft!llldillg aod 6erin.r - tiN ~ict ......
J•kiar toot~Mulhe.-Relldiag ill the 1'00111 oftbe tee&-GI'IIIpia« paiD ill the
teeth, preceded by copioua 88livation.- Swollen ~ paio{ul to the aouoh.
TAe ..outi .. !f6eaut11Walld dry, in the moraing, without want ofaliYa.
Jlou«hne. aad dryaeae ofthe diruaL-IDftaauna&ian. ofthe aucea, wilh pain&
when swallowing.
Eanhy tas~ in the mouth.- Vehement dlim, cbietly for beer.- Appeti~
only for rye·bread.- Hunger after dinner.
Naui!ea with burning bea' in the face.- Strong hiekupping.
Preeeure in the atomach, with a aenaation of fulneaa in the abdomen.
Tenae and painfully dia~nded abdomen. - Pain in the umbilical region. -
Cutting in llaf l'lbdomen 1Dith. ditwrluN and ebilla.- S&dchea in the Side.-Rum-
. bling in the abdomen, with copious diacharge ofbtid ftatuleltey.
T•dy, h.Grd, knotty 1tool, diacharged only with exertion IDd great pains.-
DNirro\tN of a yeUowiala water, with cut.Ung and griping' in the abdemeD. -
Blli'Qiq in the aau1 duriag and after evacuation-Pain ia tM pilfie.
Diminished eeczet.ioD ofurine.- Dark·yeJiow au«mented urine.- MicturitiDo
at qh&.- Ptile 'Uf'itle, .n.lt a strong odeur like ammonia.
~ too late, at firllt like the~ offlesh, aDd &11811 clouy.
Hoaneneaa and roughaees in the throat, with irritation to ooup.
Dr, coqh, from ticklillg-in t.be trachea, wont at ~h&.
Tightneaa of the ~eat, when walking, with burning in tile faoe.
Praure in the cae.&. - Drawi~ paiue in &be peotorel ma.cJee.;.... Palpitatioo
ofdile heu1.
Pain in the back IDd eaeral region, u if beaten. -Drawing pain ia the beck
ID4 lumbu region.
Beacliag in the anoe, banda aad.U8em, ohieftJ the joiDtii.-Patey-tike torpor
of the fore·81'1118 and banda.
D'JdliJig dnwing ia the lep. - Jerkiog ill·the ltg&- Drawing aDCI rending
n ~ lep, i!et and &oal, chiefl1 the joint&- Swelling of the teet.
t 76. Succinum.
Aa6tr. - a-. Btnuui..
Symptoms of this re:mecJy will be published io the "Corr~t".
Digitized by Coogle
Sulphur.
177. Sulphur.
Durafier&.of~: about Mclay& ·
37t
AwtUet•: ACO!Iitut, camphorS, ebamomilla, eincbona, hycbvgyrum, nux
'90iilieat pu)Bati11a, eepia. ·
U.H,. maiJfttillotefor: cinchona, hydrargyrum, nitri acidum, eepia, tomcc..
dendron.
It flltftDeN tHll#Jftw: lfJflf'tft'K• ftwm, anenieum, peorinum, toxieodendrcm.
~ it mlllllft' tHll: acoaitam, belladonDS, c.lcare11, hydralgyrum, nux YO-
mica, pulatilla, eepia, llilioa.
Prede,.;,..., ~edt: Drawillg, readiag and •t~ in the limb, chiefty the
joiaU, toit4 ~. aDd intolerably inereaeed paine UJI(Ier feether-bed&-
Wftllebiog paiD&- Straioiog in the limbe, as from decunation ofthe teodoD&-
&pe. ao4 crookiDg oltbe limbs.- Artlaritic ..eUing qftAe jomu, wiih heat.-
Pale, &eoae, ho&, bard tumefaction&- Varieee.- htlftmanuatitm, 11Dtlling, ..-
,..,..,_ flfUl iMuriJtiM qftlaeK'-rul&.- &roplaulmu tnUl rlatJclritie COJRplllinU•-
Paiua in the boBee, .u ifthe 4eela were looeeaed from them. Inflam....aio aad
swelling of the bonee. - lneunation of bones.- Cllrie1.- Bad ooaeequeoce of
oouiem. - IHMw••./twA t1e ~ qf cinelaolld or mm:vry. - Hperit: tmJ
Ia~ ~ qf tlffferem Mncll. - Chlorotic and icteric a&ctiou.-
Gae&ric aod bilioua complaint&- lnftamma&iooa, llropftl:cl qffecliotv and euppura-
tiou ofinterior orpos.-P•f'JIItllic qffecnmu.-Tiogliog in the limba.-DUpoft.
tiet& to Awnhen.-.Euily injured by liftiag.-Twitching of the m•lee.-Aiftt..
ing fl,. 11M 'f'IJI"ll• aleo hyeteric. - 8i08le jerka in tbe limbe, when llittia« or
lyiJas.- ~ ~ wi&h a eeoation prooeecling from the t.ek or anne,
ae ifa mouee -...e ruDJlia« there•._ Tremor of the limb&. - TAc fltBit 00111ploi11U
~ onlJ ..,-.. lit rat, aDd dilappear by motion of the part aft'eeted, or by
walking. - Plliu, appear or are if&Cf'ea~ed Ill mglal. - The pains are e:ucerbaled
by the cold and' relieved by warmth. - The pctient feell ~Hrlt in • ltlmdiag
pomwe.
GtnMrtll rutiuneN in tie MJr, which doea not allow oflit&ing ~ with an
urgent diepoeif.ioD, to e&retch aDd draw up the limbe.- &nmg ~ qftAe
61Dod., a1eo after drinking beer. - Inward tremor. - F•tiguei. 6y ~-­
Languor in all the limbe, dillappearing by walking.-Infirm gait.- W~ ,_,
/tJnHrd..- fketlt ~ aJao wi&h children.- Gre.t ,...,._, to t1e opert
eir -.1 toU&tl, eU1 • clilpoftlicm to take cold.- P~ 1llit.\ tiMJ dltlitge of 1M
1HGtlaer.-Aeenin to ..... GIW#{f. ,
lJcJeiag '" tie Mia, won& Ill niBil, or in &he morning ia W, fnqueD&ly witla
a --t.ioo of eoren.., or Ilea&, or ~. or bleecrmg of the ecratched lpoL -
Enlptiou 4fkr NCCin«tion.- CJaroDic erupaona with a buruing itchinA".- Milt.
"'f eruptioru, with IIOI'elleM af &be Mia. - 8ctJbiu. - NettlHult. - Yellow or
liTer-colored epo&a on &he akin.- Mole&- Suggilatiou after u inoonlideraWe
coll&UIIion. - Herpu.- Bryn,eu.tou ~ with throbbinA' ud l&insing.
- c.wbllliu, itching ia die warmth.- o.lling of1M Min iD ehildren.- Rluw•
cfu.-Tbeskill di16cuk to bai.-SappuraaioDL-Fil&ulousulcen.-8apparaaa,
Digitized by Coogle
380 Sulphur.
cyme tumour•.-Furuncle&- Ulcer•, with rendiog, stinging and tension, euilf
bleeding and ducharging a fetid pu. - PtmaritiG.- Warta.- Hang·naila.-
Corn., with pre.esing stinging pains.
Invincible aleepine11, in tlae day-time, chiefly iR the afternoon, and ia the even·
ing.- Late 1leep in 1M ewcning, in bed.-Noctuf'7111l•~• witll J'Htlest.
ness and tingling in the limbs.-Too slight sleep.-Profound, lethargic slum~
ia the morning. - Too long Bleep. - Sleepiog with par&ially open eyee. - Unre-
fre•hing •leep.- Inability to sleep in any other way, than in a supine or half
sitting poiKure. --;- Deliriou, an.ftoul, ·rullu• clrecM~, toith frtgit· in •l«JJ, and
fear wh~n awakiog.- Moaning, BDOring, tlllkirag afJ(lahrieking in sleep.- Noe-
turnal wandering talk.- Night -mare.- Somnambuliam.- 8hoC1u mul frrkB in
t/ae limbl, in Bleep.
CAiUineu, chills and eeni!Btion ofcoldnel8, withOut thint.- Heat with much
thin&.-Flushes of heat.-Quotidian fever, with heat and thirst after the chiBs.-
Tertian fever, first. coldnel8 with thirst and drawing in the limbe, then chills, then
heat without thirst, with a throbbing headache in the temples.-ChHis with tbil'lllt,
sueeeeded by heat.- Weaknes11, obstruction .of the nose and IC8be in the noee,
with the fever.- Worm-fever.- Fever in the evening; nervoue and hectic fevers.
-Perspiration in the rooming or evening iJr bed.- Profiue petoBpirlllion, in the
day-time 111Aen t~~or/ring, and at night in bed.
&i.Ru. end dejection.- Melancholy, toith doubt• ~~bout hu IOfll'1 tH{f.an.-
Great inclination to ~~~eep, frequently ahernating with Jaughiug.--lnconeolable·
n-, and reproaches of COlllleience about every action.- Attacb of anmety, in
. the evening.- Nocturnal fear ofspectres.- Fearfu1Jles11 and lU.Irilitg to be frigh·
tenetL- Reatleasneu and haetine~&- Caprice, morosenes11 and illlaumour.-
' Irritability and fretfulneu.- Disinclination to labour.
Great wakneu ofmemory.- Deliria and carphologia. - M.i8takiog one thing
for an other. - PhiWBophical t~nd religiottl rneriu, and fixed ideas. - lnaanity
with imagination 88 if he were in JlOI!IM!IIBion of beautiful things and in abundance
ofevery thing.
Diuinu• ofthe head, with dj9icultg to think.-Weakneu like confusion in the
head.-Unconsciousoess, and heavines11 of the head, when stooping.-Parozylflll
of giddineu qf different kindl, chiefly 111hen titling, or in the monting with epis-
taxis. or .&r dinner, in the e•ening, at night, or when walking, ,and when
crveling a running water.
Headol:lae tuita MUBeo. - Pain in the head with every step.-Pain on the ver-
tex, when masticating, coughing and blowing the nose. - Haulache from labour..
ing in pewter and lead. - Nocturnal headache, from the lea8t motion in bed.-
Semation qffulne~• and l.eawineBB in tlae head, chiefly the occiput.-Long con·
tinued pre1Bing headache in the forehead, lllitl tenlion in the brain·by every mental·
exemon.-Headache, 88 ifa hoop were around the head, 011 ae ifit were IC1'8Wed
together. -Forward pressure in the temples. - Daily headache, ae if the head
would bul'llt.- Drallliftif and rending thrtJUKh the head. - Periodical headache,
from 8 ~ 8 tlays, consisting of.pressure, rending and coafusion.- Darting ltetltJ.
• acle, cAiejlg in theforehea41.-Jerking headache.-Ciucking, throbbing heaCache,
11101tly tDitA 1eat in tlae hedd, occallioned by corrge1tioa of blood kl 1M brain, atl
Digitized by Coogle
Sulphur. 881
di~y in. 1M mwni.Ag and even~. - Tiugling, buzzing and l11111tlHfl8 ·in tle
head......;.The headache is increued in the open air and relieved in a room.
External coldne~~~~ on the head. - ttehlog on the head, with im.Jllttienee. -
Eruption on the hairy part of the head.- Offlmsive oozing .cald.-The roots of
the haii- painful to the touch.- The 1uJir falling off, also in lying-in women.-
The head bent forward in walkiug. ,
.Pain. in the eye•, occtuionecl byforeiga ..Wat11'110e•1likewise by dust or llllnd.-
Heav.inet!JB in the eyes and.lids.- Pru.rure in tlae eye•· GAd lith, with a darting and
rubbing sell8ation, aa if 8aD4l were in &hem.- Itchirtg, biting and burning in tlae
eye•, lida and oantii.- Red~ of the eyee and lid& - 11!flai'AfiiiJtilm of tile ¥•
tmtl lith, chiefiy will 6(lroftdotu Wadividual., or with newborn infants, alao after
a cold.- SweUing mul turge.cence ofthe lid•.-Turgid conjunctiva.-Vesicles on
the .cornea.-The cornea eloudy, as if cOTered with dust.- Nodes in the lid.-
lllcerated .,...,.giu of the lUll. - Drywu or ezceuive running of the ¥•· -
Gl'efti'IY teara. - Copious 1Je6retion o( a purulent mucus from the eyes and lids,
day and night.-The eyes glued together at night.- Contraction of the lids, ia
the morning. - Twitching and quivering of the lich.- Tremor in the eyes. -
Cloudine~~~ and dimneea before the eyea.- Gauze before the eyu.-Pre~.­
Obj~ts aeem' to be very fur distant. - Nyetalepia.- ~~ ~.- P»
topiobiG.
Rending otalgia..;..... DrartJing lml •tmgiRg in tie e.r•.-Stinging behind the
ears, extending into the eye, after.vexation. - A glowing burning in the eant.-
UoduJat.ing sound in the ears, as from water.- Purulmt duoiarge from the HI".
-Furuacle on the tragus.- Excessively delicate hearing.- DlllMA of~·
- Obetnlction of thiJ -•, with congestion of the blood to them. - A. 88DS8lion.
as if something were put before the ears, during meals. -Tingling, humming•
.buuing aad roaring in tlae ecn.
Tie fl06e1 chiefly_the point of it, infi-ied and neo(len.-Boring in the root of
the JlOIIt!< - Burning in tbe upper part of tiM nose.- 11!flamrnation ofthe iaterior
of the no•e. - Scabs in the nose. - Dry ulcers on the nose.- Carcinoma of the
nOfile.- Summer·tieeklee awl black pores qn the nose. - BIDtDing out blondfrom
tAe .-.- Epimi.N.-Too delicate smelling.-An odour in the nose, as tiom
0uym or burnt hom.
~ued and pllle fOU*r of couatet~aMe, with sunken, blue-bord~red eyea.-
Rednetlll and heat in ths jaee, with red BpOt& - Circumscribed rednees of the
cbleks.- Swelling of the cheeks, with a l!tinging pain.-~ in the face.
- ~ roughne811 of the skin in the face.- Long •ttarulif18 en~ptt.n -in IAeJ«e. -
I~ moistening herpu all over the face, chiefty the nose and about the eyes.-
Muah eruption on the forehead.- Onuta lactea.- Summer-freckles awl black
pores in the filce. .
Dry, rough, and cracked lip&- Tremor and twitchi~ of the lips.- Burning
of the lipe.- &«Uiag of the ap..- Freckles on the upper-lip.- A scurfy ulcer
on the red part of the lips. - ~ of tM lip•. -Herpetic eruption oa the
comer ofthe moutlL- Black pore& on the upper-lip and chin.-Painful eruption
abeuuhe lkia.- SvJelliag ejt1e ndmu.J.1:illary gltmh.
The edges of~ teeth exeellli•ely delieate.- Tooth..ache, in the opea air, at.o
erifinatiug &om a draft of air.-~ arul df'flfDiff!' itt the teetl&, increued bJ
Digitized by Google
Sulphur.
wannth.- Jerks and •titclae• in tlae teeth, al110 in hollow teeth, extending ipto the
head.-Buroiog boring in the teeth.-Tooth-ache, in the evemng muht nigAt.-
Painful aeneation of l008811ess, elongation"and dulnees of the teeth. - &Delling of
tlae guJM, 110metimes tDitA a tlarobbi11g paira.- Bleeding of &be gums.
Dryn- in the mouth, in the morning, with thint, and with a moist, but
frothy, mucous tongue.-Sali11t1tion, al80 after the minue ofmercury, or in fever-
paroxyiiDl&- Bloody sali't'a.- O.ffeuiwe odotlr from the moutA, chiefly alao after
metJI.r. - Burnins- in the mouth and on the tongue.- Brown, dry to&«ue. - Veei-
cles and bladders in the mouth, with aaeDI8tion ofsoreneee.-AplatAe, in children.
-:"Desquamation of the interior sUrface of the cheek&- Stomaeace.
Pain in the throat, a1 from a plug, or inward ulcer, 110metimes long CDJ&tinva
and impeding deglutition.-When swallowing only ealiva, a een8ation, ae if a bit
ofmeat were swallowed with it.-A painficl ma~~~tion ofcon~trietitm in the tlaroGt,
when swallowing.- A aeD88tion 88 ifa hair were on the pharynx, with an empy-
reumatic taste.- &iflging in the throat, when swallowing or not.- Sensation of
eorenese and burning in the throat. - Drynu• ofthe tlartHJt. - ItUiammation of
the throat.- Swelling of the u't'ula and toneila.
Insipid taete.-8111Utwla, putrucent flute in the mouth, chiefty in them~
when awaking.- Bitter or ealtieh taste of meals. - Taetel~eee offood.- COn-
stant thirst, chiefly for beer.-Thirst at night. - Too keen appetite.- Bulimia.-
Anorexia.- Averlion to meat, rye-bread, fat and milk.- Loathing of wine.-
Aver.W. to noeet met&t1 or GCicl8, or a great desire for it.-Bad effects of aeids'.-
After the use ofmilk, sour taste and sour eructation.-Beer tastes long after, and
caueee agitation of the blood. - weaknees ofdigestion.- After metiU' onwuritm
ofthe claelt, preeeure in the stomach, fuloeee in the abdomen, chillinea~ and greet
&&igue.
EructtJtion, m01tly 11acant, or with the taste of what hae been~; az.o after
·meal~. - Interrupted eructation. - Ofteoeive enctation, at night in sleep. -
Bumiug, 1011r eructt&tiora.- Sour regurgitation, aleo of meal~ and liquid&-
Heart-bum.
NaU~ets in the morning, or after metiU, sometimes with incliaation to·vomit.-
Wambling before meals.-Water-braM, with a preeeing revolutiOn in the abdomen,
in the morning, or after meal&.-Vomiting of what h88 been eaten, chiefty in the
morning and evening.- Bitter and sour 't'omit&, in the afternoon and at.night,
with naueea and cold perspiration in the face.- Black vomit&.:.... Hematemesia.
The region of the stomach very tender to the touch. - Preeeure in the atom•
ach, aleo after meals. - Hea't'inese and a aeneation of fulneee in the stomach. -
Swelling in the pit of the stomach.- Comracting lpMm in the at011111CA, dUo im-
-mediately after met&la, or at night.-Grubbing in tl&e pit ofthe 1tom.rch.-StiJ18ing
and burning in the stomach and ecrobiculus.
. Painful tendernees of the hypochondree, ae ifthey wef8 sore.-Preeeure, ten-
sion and •tinging in the heptJtic regiora. - Chronic inflammation of the liver: '9"'"
Hea't'in~a in the left hypochondrium, 88 from a lump.- Inftammatlon of the
kidneys.
Painl in the abtlomen immediately after mull, or.liquiM. - Full, .inftated,
te088 abdomen.- Heavineu in the abdomen, ., if• lutrtp 1Hre lging i11 it, relieved
by Bitting bent.-Vehement, sometimes grubbing prmure in the ~ aleo
Digitized by Coogle
Sulphur.
long eentinued only in the epigastrium.- RencUng colicky klly·IIClte claiejlg at
aiglt, or ~ by laemorrlaoiM.- Griping and cutting in the abdomen.-
&inging abdominal paim, chiefly in the left lick, tDhen walking or breathing
deep.- Seo.sation of 110reneee in the abdomen.- Stagnation of the blOod in the
abdomen.- Aleite1.- Inguinal hernia. - Swelling of the inguinal gland& - CJ6..
llnlcted jlfJIUlency, 110metimes with a Tiolent preseure ill the left iide of tile ~
domen. - Loud rolling and grumbling in the abdomen.-Copious discharge of
fmtid flatulency.
Coniltipation, IJl.o hmg continued, or with suckling infanta. - Frequent in-
~ecttull urgency to ltool. - Evacuation only every second or third day.-llllrd,
lmotty, ~ 61HJCU4tion.-Diarrhrea of pregnant women.-Watery, whitilla.
llimy diarrhtBa, day and night.- Diarrhaa of children, with a greeniilr. bloody
mucu1, and weeping and shrieking.- Diarrhrea,. from a cold.- Nocturnal dytea-
teric 1tooU, with abdominal paina and -violent tenesmus. ..._Brownish diarrbrea,
with griping in the abdomen.-Sour smelling evaeuatioua.-Undigested atoola.-
lnvoluntary evacuation.- AIIC8rides and Jumbricoides diaeharged.-Tape-worm.
-Prolapml ani, with -a difficult~vaeuation. -Itclr.ing, 1tinging and burning ift
the anut and rectum, also during stool-Sorenesa on the anus. - Swelling ofthe
anus.- Moistening and bleeding piles.
· The secretion of urine auppresaed, or sparing. - Retention of the urine.-
l+equent urgency to urinate, frequently rapid and sudden. - Thin interrupted
stream of the urine. ~ Frequent micturition, IJl.o at night, with a copiotu dil-
chllrge of watery urine, which ia forced out. - Involuntary urinal discharge.~
Nocturnal inconti~Unee of urine. - Offensive urine. - Whitish urine.......White
fiuinaeeoua or reddish eediment in the urine. - A cuticle on the urine. - Hema-
turia. - H~orrlwgia urethr111. - Rending, •tinging and burning in the urethra,
tieo when urinating. - Cutting sensation when urinating. - Stitches in the blad·
der.- Rednesa and inflammation ofthe orifice of the urethra.- Mucous disehar,ge
from the urethra.-Gonorrhrea aeeundaria~
Offensive perspiration on the genitals. - GaUing between the leg•, when walk-
ing. - Stinging iii the penis and glans. - Deep abecess on the glsna &Qd prepu-
tium, with a pulpy margin. - BalanoblennorrhtBa.- Inflammation, •welling and
phimolil ofthe preputium, with deep.craeks, burning and redness.-The testicles
flaccid, banging down.- Swelling of the testicles. - Hydrocele. - Soreness and
moistening of the scrotum.- Increased sexual desire.- Weak •e.wal pawer.-
Seminal emissions. - The semen too q~ickly disehsrged in coition.- Pro1tatie
.fluid euaping, also after micturition or evacuation.
Bearing down totDard• the genitau. - Congestion of blood to the uterus. -
Metrorrhagia.-Itching, burning, and galling on the pudenda.- Inflammation of
the labia pildendorum. - Catamenia wppreued or too small- Memtruation too
early and profut~e. - Catamenia too lste. - Menstrual discharge too pale.- The
menatrual blood of a sourish odour. - Before men~truation, hudache, or itching
<'D the pudenda. - Before and during menstruation, epistaxis.- During men-
struation, abdominal spas1D8. - Sterility, with a too early or too ·profuee·men-
lltl'Uation.- Abortu8•.:.... Mucous, or yellowish, aerid, excoriating leueorrha!a, fre-
quendy preceded by cutting in the abdomen.
Digitized by Coogle
Sulphur.
Long continued obttructiott ofthe nou, also on one aide only.- Drynes• in tke
ft08e.- Gravedo.- Copious ¥"* of a burning water or bloody mucus &om
the JlOI!e.
Hoar8tmell and roughne•• in the throat, with much mucus in the chest.-
Deep, rough voiee, with cold moist weather. - Catarrh, with deftuxion from the
noee, chiUinees, rawness in the cheat and cough. - Itching in the laryn:x: with
irritation to cough.
Cough, with pain and 1titches in the che1t or head.- Cough with choking and
vomiting and spo8DIOdic contraction of the chest, day and night, or only in the
morning.~ Choking cough ofchildren. - Long continued hooping cough.- Dry
cough, mo~~tlg in the evening or at nigltt, when lying down. - Loose cough with
a thick mucous expectoration, or with selll!ll.tion of sorenesa and pre!18Ure in the
cheat.-Difficult, whitish, or copious, yellowish expectoration with the cough.~
Sweetish, offensive, yellotDUA-green expectoration with the cough..-. Expectoration·
ofbloody pm. - Feverish cough with expector11tion ofblood. - Phthisis ulcerosa.
Obstruction ofthe breath, several times during the day, alsO when speaking. -
Dy3pii(M.- Quiek, 81Uall respiration.·- Short breath when walking in the open
air. - TightneiB of the chest and frequent paro:x;ylmll of ltfffocation, chiefly at
night. - Wheezing respiration. - Rattling and 3r&Oring in the chest. - Stitches
in the back and sacral region, when breathing.
Pains·in tM chest, from improper lifting.- Pain in the right side ofthe chest,
88 ifsomething were falling forwards in it. - Painful sensation in the left side of
the chest, 88 from a hinderance, with anxiety and inability to lie on that side.-
Heaviness, pre•mre mul fulnu• in the chest, also in the morning. - Pre1mre in
the •temum, also 88 iffrom a lump, when coughing, gaping and sneezing.- Pain
88 ifthe chest would burst, when coughing and sneezing. - Spasm• in the chest.
- Stitche• in the tternum, or in the chest, extending to the back, or in the ltft ride
when coughing, deep breathing or raising up the &I'ID&-WeabeiS in the chest,
particularly felt when speaking. -The breast futigued by singing. - Sensation
of coldness in the chest. - Burning in the che1t, rising up to the face. - Neg·
lectetl inflammation of the lung•, and pains in the chest from it. - Strong con-
gution ofblood to the chest and heart.- Palpitation ofthe heart,fr~quently visible
and an:x:ioul, also w;h~n aecending nn eminence;- Sensation of enlargement of
the heart. - Inflammation and erysipelas in the female breasts.'- Itching and
soreness on the nipples.- Cracks in the nipples with a burning ptzin.- Carcino-
ma ofthe breast.-Indurated, inflamed mammary glands.
Pains in the small ofthe back, when walking and rising from sitting.-Crepi-
tation in the small ofthe back.- Pains in the back, after ma~ual labour.- Stit-
chu mtke baek und sacral region, also in the shoulder-blades with obstruction of
the breath. - Rheumatic rending, drawing and tenlion in the small ofthe lHzck,
back and nape, with 8tijfnes1.- Griping and burning between the shoulder-blades.
- Rhachi&io incurvation of the spine.- Herpes on the nape. - Intlammatioli and
swelling ofthe glands of the throat ~nd neck.- Offensive perspiration in the arm-
piU. - 8tDelling and mppuration ofthe arillary glanih.
Pressure on the shoulders as from a weight. - Jerks in the shoulders, hands
and fingers.- Drawing, rending and •tinging in the muscles and joints of the
shoulder•, arms, hands and fingers. - Nocturnal spasm in the arms. - Tingling
Digitized by Coogle
Sulphur. - Sulphuricu.m acidum. 385
in the ums an4 points·of the fingers. - &!JeUing of the arm& - Ex01toei8 on
the arms.- Weeknees in the arms and band~t. chiedy in the morning.- Bed,
burning spots on t.be arm, after washing.- Hot, hard swelling ofthe upper-arm.
-Suppurating vesicles in the bend of the e)Jlow.-Warts on the RI1DII.- Swelling
of the fore-erm with burning and straining (after a stroke). - Stiffilees and wren- .
ching pain in the joints of the hand and fingers.- Tremor qf the lw..Js, when
occupied with fine small work.-A.nxious involuntftry grasping with the handa.-
Coldness of the hands and fingers. - Per'f'iratior& on the Aand8, and between the
fiugers.- Hard, dry, cracked 1ki11 of the lw.nd8.-The cuticle on the buds and
fingers peeling off.- Thick shining tumor of the fingers.- Ihwlau• qf the p.
gen - Chilblains on tbe finge"" - Pmttrritia.- Haag-naila.
Pain in the buttocks, when Bitting for a long while. - Painful abee8ee on the
buuockfJ.- Wrenching and bruising pain in the hip from the leut motion.......
Drawing awl ren~ing in the leg•, chiefly at night in bed.- HtafliR~U in tlte l'K'•
with tension in the thighs and.knees, particularly 11t night.-Transparent swelling
of the legs (after the misuse ofeinchona).- Reetlet~~net!8 in the legs and feet.-
Numbnees and torpor of the legs.- Languor and dilablang wealme11 qf the legs,
chiefly tlie knees, which give way.- Red spots on the legs.- Red, paint\d,
humid apGts on the inside of the thigh& - Tenrion and strainiflg in the knees,
· aa if the tendons were too short.- Thick, Bllining MDeUirag of tAe knee, tOitA
crooking and BliffneBI.- Rending and •tinging ifl the kAeeB andfeet.-•Herpee in
the bend of the knee and on the ankles. - Diet.ended veins on the lege. - Erym-
pelu on.the lege.-White swelling of the thigh.- Pain in the calves when walk-
ing.- Spann in the calves, and so~ of the feet, at night. - Pains in the soles of
the feet, when treading on the ground.-The feet euily knickling when walking;.
- Coldnus of the feet. - Burning in the feet.- SwelHng of the feet, clait>fly the
ankles.- Inveterate ulcer on th:e ankle, discharging a thin ichor and ita circum-
ference PWollen. - Cold perBpiration on tile feet.- Chilblains on the feet. - Uker
im the ridge ofthe foot: -Spasm and crooking of the toea.-Coldneaaand stiftbees
of the toes. - Tingling in the points of the toes. - Thick, Mining BtOelliJtg oftie
toes.-Painful podagra. -Eating blotches and suppurating veaiclea on the toea.-
·eon.., with a preBIIing or stinging pain.
f 78. Sulphuricum acidum.
Sulphuric •cil..- Germ. ScA•rf.Z•Iur..
Duration ofeffect: about·s weeks.
Antidote: pnhlatilla.
It answers weU after arnica.
After it answer• well : pulsatilla.
Predominant effects: Rending in the whole body. e•en ia the face.- Spurn
in the limbe. -Paine felt in sleep. -Incredling and tAen ltUUenly flison-rJng
pciu, mostly 88 if from a dull pressure. - Icteric complaint&- Twitehing o( the
tenllona.- The complaints appear and are increaaed in the fwenoon and evening.
33
Digitized YGoogle
386 Sulphuricum acidum.
- In the open air the feeling seems to be wone. - The left &de seems moflt
affected.- Languor of the whole body, with a sensation of tremor.
Itching over the whole body.-Red, itching spots on the skin, or l!lmall blueish,
like sugillation. - Bad CODI!equences from mechtmical injurie1, a• a blow, pre16Ure
or oontulion. - Furuncle~~. - Tingling in ulcers. - Chilblains. - Rending and
stinging in corns.-Warts. ,
Late •leep and early awaking.- Wakefuln-. ..._ Jerb in slt>ep;- Anxious
dreams.-Jerb of the fingers in sleep.
Predominant sensation of wannth.- Pituitous fever.- Small, weak pulse.-
Petspimtion with. every motion.- Strong perspimtion ~n the morning.
Melancholic dejection. -Inclination 1o weep. - Timorousnees and distrust. -
Rel!ltleesn-, hastiness, and imp~~tience. - Excessively irritable, excited· and liable
to be frighten~.- Fretfql pelillilhne11 and disinctinatiou to speak.- WearineSB of
life.-Alternation ofgravity and excessiYe jocularity.
Great mental dissip!ltion.- Mental hebetude.
Affection ofone Bide ofthe head, as ifsmoke were in it.-Giddine!!!l when sit--
ting, disappearing in the open air.
-Headache, jir1t increaling, then suddenly disappearing.- Se!Wltion of weak·
Dei!B in the head.- Headache, 88 if the brain were dilacerated...;... PrE'81!ing head·
ache. - Heaviness and Bensation of fulness in the brain, as if the head would
burst.- Sensation of constriction in the head.~ Jerks tmd 1hockl in the head..-
Drawing rending or dull •tinging pains in tlze head. - Sensation ofloorenea• of
the brain.
The head externally painful, 88 if ulcerated. -Itching and el'\lption on the
scalp.-The hair becoming gray and falling off.
Burni~g pressing pain in the eyes, in the open air, or when looking intently
on something, in the room.- Tension in thl' lids, in the morning.- Biting bum~
ing and running of the egea, chiefly when reading.- Redness of the eyes, with
photophobia.- Chronic injl6mf111Jtion of th.e eyes. - Difficulty to open the tide...-
Myopia.
Rending in the ears.- Dyaecoia, as ifa small leaf were put before the ears. -
Ringing in the ears.- Buzzing in the ears, in the evening.
Epistaxis in the evening.
Paleness ofcountenance. - Sensation as if from a blow in the zygomatic bone.
-Rending in the facial bonel!l.- Sensation of swelling in the face, with a sensa•
tion, 88 if albumen were drying on it.
The lip& scaling off. - Sensation of soreness in the corners of the mouth.-
Inflammation and BWeUing ofthe submaxillary glands.
Tooth-ache, most vehement in the evening in bed, increased by cold, relieved
by warmth, mostly ~nding and grubbing, or gnawing.- The teeth set on edge. -
Swelling of the gqms, which bleed readily.- illcer on the gums.
Aphthce in children. - Sen!llltion of dryness in the mouth.- Dry tongue.-
Profiue lalivation.-Hmmoptysis.
Sore throat when swallowing, with a pungent p!lill, mostly in the evening.-
Roughnear in the throat.
Putrid tute. - Bread tastes bitter and causes a pressure in the •&&mach.-
Digitized by Google
Sulphuricum acidum.
Bulimia, wuh grumbling 11nd rolling in the abdomen.- Inclination for fresh fruits
(plwns).- After meals, restle88ness, agitation and cutting in the abdomen, or
strong distention of the stom.ach. - After eating warm food, immediately cold
perspimtion follows. - After the use of milk, flatulency and languor.- Every
liquid causes a cold in the stomach, when some spirit.ll are not added.'
Eructation, cif a lOUr IW bitter wile. -Sourish bitter or llllltiah, or sweetish
regurgitation.- Heart-burn. .,
' Nausea in the stomach, attended with chilliness.- Vomiting first of tDGter,
then of what has been eaten. .
Tenderness in ~e region of the stomach. - Fulnees and pressure in the stom-
ach.- GrtUping in the 1tomac/&, in the evening, as if from a cold.-Contraetion
in the stomach and scrobiculus cordis.- Cutting ia the region ot the stomach.-
Sensation ofcoldness or burning in the stomach.
Pungency in the ~plee..- Darting pain in the hepatic region.
Abdominal pain~, like throe•, extending to the hipe and small of the back.-
Winding, cutting and piHChing in the abdometJ, also at night.- Sensation of
warmth in the umbilical region. -Jerking in the whole hypogastrium, more
superfieial-Throbbing, rending and stinging in the groins. - fiore rasping pain
in the region of the hernia.- Strong protnuion of"" inguinal hernia.-Flatulent
colic in the hypogastrium, with grumbling and rolling and with a seDil8tion, as
ifa hernia would appear.
Ineffectual urgency to •tool.-Retarded, bard, knotty and black stool-Thickly
shaped stooL- Long continued loo8ene11 of the botDell.-Watery, green, papes-
cent purging stools. - Diarrhrea consisting only of frothy mucus, with burning
in the anus.- Blood-streaked evacuation of mucus.- Curdled stools (with
children).- Putrid ~meUing, e:rce11ively o.ffenlive stooll.- Blood discharged with
the stool. -Congestion of blood towards the rectum.- Piles with pungency,
itching, burning and moisl.ness.
Diminuhed .ecretion of urine, with burning during micturition. - Necessity
to urinate at night.- Watery urine.-Tbick urine.- Brown-l'fJd urine, when
standing for a while, turning muddy, like clay-water.- Slioiy sediment in the
urine. -Blood-like sediment in the urine, with a thin cuticle on iL- Paiu in the
bladder, when the water is not immediately discharged.
Much warmth in the genitals and te£1ticles.- Seminal e.w.ion without any
voluptuous sensation.
Much irritation to cohabit, in the.exterior of the genitals.-Catamenia too esrly
"'" too profiue. - Menstruation too long continued. - Metrorrhagia. - Before
menstruation, night-mare.- During menstruation, stitches in the abdomen and
-vagina.- Sterility, with a too early and too profuse menstruation.- Acrid, burn-
ing leucorrklll6, or like milk.-Bloody slimy discharge from the vagina.
Graudo IDit& anotmia.-Watery discharge from the DOlle, with ob&truction of
one side ofiL
Heor.eneu, with dryness and roughne11 in tAe throot tmtl larynz. - Pain in
the ll!l"ynx. with difficulty to speak, as if the part.11 were too inflexible.
Cough occalioned by the Open air.- Short, asthmatic, dry cou.gh, also in the
Digitized by Coogle
388 Sulphuricum acidum.- Tabacum.
morning after rising. -·Loose cough with a mucous expectoration.- Long con-
timud htemOpty.U.-Af\er the cough, eructation; or rising ofwbat bas been eaten.
Tightneu ofthe chest. -Great weakness of the cheSt, with difficulty to speak.
-Pressure on the left side of the chest, and in the pit of the stom11cb.- Stitches
in the chest.- P11lpitation ofthe heart.- Stitches through the heart.
Pains in the small.of the bftck and back as.if beaten. -Drawing in the back
and sacral region. - Furuneles on the back. - Stiffness in the bftck, in the mor-
ning, -Painful sensitiveness of the axillary glands. - Swelling of·the axi11ary
glands.
Heaviness of the arms. - Dil!lllbling t~pasmodie contraction in the arms. -
Stitches in the ehoulder~joint, when 'taieing the arm.-Tightening pain in the
Joint of the elbow.- Blueish spots on the fore-arm, like eugillation.- Spum in
the hands.- Jerks and shocks through the carpal bones, when writi.n~~:.- Erup-
tion on.the hands and between the fingllrs.- Stitches in the joints of the fingers.
- 'chilblain!l on the fingers.
HeaYinees of the legs.- Torpor and numbness of the legs.- Stretchin~ of the
lege. - Rending in the varices on the·thighs.- Painful weakne88 of the knees,
with dull stitches, shock& and jerk& in them.- Red, itching spots on the shin-
bone. - Stiffness in the ankles. - Coldness of the feet. - Swelling of the feet. -
Rending and etin~ng in the come.
179. Tabacum.
Antidote•: acetum,. eamphora, ipecacuanha, nux vomiea.
Used 411 an a1flidote for cicuta, stra,monium.
Predomintmt effects: Pressing pains with restlessness in the whole body and
anxious perspiration.- 8p411m andformication in the limbs.- Great e1JiacialioR.-
PRlsy-like, painful weakness of the limbs.-7remor ofthe limbs.-Gre11t weak-
ness of the whole body.- Jerks on the whole body, with pulsation and palpitation
"f the heltl't. -Gastric complaints.- Patient feels better in the open 11ir.
Itching on the skin, as from flea-bites.- Itching efflorescence or vesicles with
a yellowish ichor and red areola.
Great &leepine11s, chiefly after meals, ~nd towards evening, with much gaping.
-Late sleep, in the evening, and difficulty to arouse in the morning. - Restless
sleep at night with startling.- Night-mare.
Coldne11 and chilline11, frequently with chattering of the teeth. - Frequent
attacks of shuddering, sometimes with flushes of heat. - Constant shuddering
from morning to evening.- Night-sweats.
Dull melancholy and pensiveness. - Anxiety and timtWOU111e8s, mostly in. the
afternOI)n, and relieved by weeping. - Relltlfllllnell~' driving about from place to
place. - Disinclination to labour and to talk.- Excited, cheerful humor, witb
singing, dancing and great loquacity.- UnsteadiJ}ess and abundance ofideas.
Digitized by Go?gle
' .Tab'acum. 389
The head mMddled anl 8lupefied. - Reeling. - Giddine11, frequently incretJBed
to uncomcioumess, with nau~~ea, headache and pain in the eyes.
Het~daclie with natuea and giddiness.- Great heallineaa ofthe head. - Preaeing
headache, chiefly. abqve the eyes, in the vertex and temples. - Stinging in the
head. - Congestion ofblood to the head, with heat in it, and throbbing in tho tem-
)lles.- The headache is relieved in the open air.
Burning and formication externally on the head.-Tremor of the head.
Pain in the ey~s, as iffrom much weepmg. - Preuure in the eyes, extending
deep into the sockets. - A sensation as from a hair in the eye.- Biting in the
eyes. -; Heat and burning in the eyes, with redness.- Contraction ofthe lith.-
Vanishing of sight, when gazing at any thing white.-DimBightedne~a, tJ8 through
a veil. in the e11ening.-Gfultering and black spots before the eyes.- Photophobia.
Pungency in the ears, chiefly in the open air and when listening to music.-
Bumlng heat and redness of the ear. -Hard, reddish swelling behind the ears,
with a stinging pain.
Burning and tingling in the nose.- Diminiall.ed smelling, though excessively
sensitive to wine.
Countenance deadly pale (with nausea).- Glowing heat in thefac~, with red-
ness, frequently only on one side, with paleness ofthe other cheek.-Hed spots in
the face.- Rending in the facial bones.- Minute elevations on the cheeks.-
EmaeiatioJl in the face.
The lips dry, burning, rough and cracked.- Eruption on tbe ()Omers of the
mouth..
-Stitcheas in the maxillary joint, when laughing.
Drawing, rending tooth-ache.- Stitches in hollow teeth, when biting.-Draw-
ing pain in the gums.
Dryness of the mouth arid tongue, with vehemeat thirst.- Glandular swelling
under the tongue.- Low, interrupted speech.- Drawling, monotonous reading. ·
Roughness, dryness and scraping sensation in the throat.- Pressure in the
throat, as if there were,something sticking fut.- 2Wuch viscid phlegm in the
throat.
Taste insipid and mucous, or bitter, or sour.- Sour t~USte of all food.-Water
tastes as ifmixed with wine.-Adipsia and aversion to water.-Absence of hunger
and appetite.- Constant hunger, with nausea, when the stomach is not imme-
diately satisfied;
Frequent, vacant and loud eructation. - Sour, burning eructation.- Heart-
bu~n.- Spasmodic hickupping.
Frequent nauae4, chiefly when exercising, and frequently approaching •yn-
cope, attended with deadly ptUeneiB ofthe countenance, mostly diMppearing in the
open air.- Nausea, with inclination to vomit, attended by I• selll!!fttion ofcoldness
in the stomach, or by griping in the abdomen.- Vomiting of only water, with
scotomia.- Vomiting of a •our fluid, frequently with mucus.-The vomiting is
renewed by the least motion.
Pressure in the stomach.- Contracting, raffing lptJ8m in the sunnacl'• also
after meals, and frequently with nausea 11nd a collection of88liva in the mouth. -
Stinging in the pit ofthe lltmUJch, penetnting to the back.- Sensation offlaccid-
ity and ,eoldneM, aleo a burning in the stomach.
Pain in the liver, when pressing on that epot.-Preseure in the hepatic region,
Digitized by Coogle
390 Tabacum.- Tanl\cetum.- Taraxacum.
as from a heavy lump. - 8titche1 in the hepatic regiOn. - Stinging in the lef\
hypochondrium. 1
Tendeme88 ofthe abdomen, with.intolemnce ofthe touch.-Painful distention
ofthe abdomen.- Pressing pains in the abdomen, chiefty about the navel, with a
spasmodic reti'Rction ofit. - Nocturnal rending in the abdomen. - Griping and
rolling in the abdomen. '
Constipation.-Frequent ineffectual urgency to stool. -Soft, papei!ICent stools,
al110 at night. - Vehtment, fetid , or mucous, yellowish-green diarrhrea, also at
riight, preceded and succeeded by 1trong urgency and burning in the anu1.
The urine yellowish red and increased. - Inftammation of the orifice of the
urethra.- Many erections.-Proetatic ftuid e!!Caping.
Ca.
tamenia too late and inc~. -Leucorrhrea, like the washings offlesh.
Frequent sneezing.- Dryness and obstruction ofthe nose.
Dry cmsgh,from a tickling in the throat, in the morning and towards evening.
-Cmsgh with hickupping, almost suffocating.
Oppre11ion ofthe che1t, with anxiety. - Constriction of the cheat. - Pressure
in the chest and sternum.- 8titche1 in the che1t and it1 fidel, al10 when breathing.
-Sensation of sorene&l! in .the cheat, when at rest.- Palpitation ofthe heart,
when lying on the let\ side. - Itching efflorescence on the breast.
Contracting kind ofa pain hi the small ofthe back, chiefty after evacuation.-
Emaciation .irl the back. - Red itching eruptioR on the back. - Stiflhess of ~he
neck. ·
Arms and handl painfully weak, a1 ifmaimed.-Constant inclination to stretch
and extend the arms. - Stinging and drawing in the axilla. - Red spota on the
shoulder; painful to the touch.- Tension in the arm, .chiefly the elbow.- Pain
and pungency in the elbow, which allowe one not to stretch or exert the arm.-
Tremor ofthe handl.- Cold perspiration on the hands. - Spasm and formication
in the fingers.-Swelling ofthe fingers.- Itching pimples on the fingers.
Vehement burning in the knee and sole of the foot. - Pungency in the knee
and bend of the knee.- The knees knickle in walking.- Spasm and formication,
from the knee down into the toea.- Tension in the leg, from the knee extending
into the foot.- Tremor and dilabling weaknel8 ofthe feet.
· i 80. Tanacetum.
Great agilit)', with extraordinary motions, 8trong gestures and postures, and
violent drawing'up ofthe feet and thigh•, without any pain.
181. Taraxacum.
General painfulnel!l! ofaU the limbs, chiefly when touched or in a wrong posi-
tion. - Sen88tion of sickness and weakness in the whole body, with constant
I
Digitized by Coogle
~--
Taraxacqm. 391
inclination te He down or to ~t.- Ga~tric a7Ul bilitnu_
complamti.-AJmost all the
eomplaint8· arise in sitting and clli!ftppear by walking.
Great 6leepine11 in the day-time, with ~uch gaping. - Dreamful sleep at night,
with frequent awaking and jactitation.
Chilliness with pl'e88ing headache.- Heat in the whole body, chiefly the face
and bands, without thirst.- General perspiration·at night, when ~oing to sleep.
Irresolution and disinclination to labour. - Talkativeness and ~reat diapotition
to laugh.
Giddiness with tottering and reeling, when walking in the open air.
Headache, 88 ifoccuioned by a contrat,"tion or expansion ofthe brain.- Heavi-
~ess and pressure in the head. - Stitches in the forehead and temples. - Violent
headache, felt only when walking or sta7Uli1fK.
External teneion in the scalp.
Pain in the eyes, pl'e88ing, like a grain ofsand in the interior canthus.-Burn-
ing and ardent pungency in 5he eyes. - Inflammation of the eyes with running
and photophobia. - The lids glued together at night.
· Stinging in the ears. - Dysecoia in the evening.
In the face, on the cheeks, wings of the nose and in the anglea ofthe mouth
pimples filled with pus.-Sensation ofheat in the face and redness ofcountenance.
- Stinging and pressure in the cheeks. - Cracked upper-lip.
D}'8wing pain in hollow teeth, extending to the eye-brows. - Pl'e88ing shocks
in the teeth. - Sour blood c_omes out from hollow teeth. - The teeth. set on edge.
Collection of80urish saliva in the mouth. - The tongue whitefurred and peel-
ing off. -Dry, brown-furred tongue, in the morning when getting awake.
Preaing pain in the throat, 88 iffrom an internal swelling. - Dryness, sting-
ing and bitter phlegm in the throat. - A lOUr phlegm il hoVJked out.
Bitter ta~te in the mouth, while the food tastea right.- &ltilh sour t•te of
the food, chiefly ofbutter and meat. - Tobac(l()ol!moking does not relish, it causes
heart-burn and obstrueta the breath. - Great chilline11, after drinking and eating.
Eructation of a bitter taste.- Vacant eructation, chiefly at\er drinking.-
NGtUea, 111 from the ezcessive me ofrich food, with anxiety or pressing headache,
relieved in the open air.
Griping in the abdomen. - Pressing pungency in the abdomen and siMs ofthe
abdomen, chiefly the left aide• ....,.. Rumbling in the abdomen and motions, 88 ifbub-
blea were bursting in it.
Stool, several times in the day, but discharged with difficulty and only with
much pressing.- Papeecent stool, with urgency remaining.- Voluptuous itching
on the perineum.
Frequent calla to urinate, with a copious discharge.
Pains in the testiclea. - Long continued erections. - Frequent seminal emis-
sions.
Pressure in the chest.- &itchea in the cheat and itlsidea.-Twitching in the
costal muscles.
Pressing pain in the email of the back. - Pressing and tightening stinging in
the back and sacral region, when lying, with difficult respiration.-Rolling and
Digitized by Coogle
392 ·Taraxacum.- Tartar. acid. - Terebinthinre oleum.
clucking in the shoulder-blades and shoulders, with general ebillinese. -Pressing,
jerking and stinging, in the m118eles of the throat and neck.
PuJsating throbbing and jerking in the ehoulders and lhe upper-arm.-Twitch·
ing of the muscles in the arms. - Stinging in the arlllll and elbows. - Drawing
and rending in the fore-arm and wriet..- Pimples on the hands and fingers.-
Iee-eoldnesa of the points of the fingers.
Stinging in the thighs, knees, ealvee, legs and toee.-Much perspiration be-
tween the toea.
t 82. Tarlaricum acidum.
General sensation 118 if beaten in the whole body, chiefly the lower extremitiee.
-Patient seeming to feel better in the open air. - Frequent gaping and stretch·
ing. - Sensation ofcoldness in the evening, when lying down. .'
Dry, burning lip1, with black or brown margins.
The teeth set on edge. - Insipid and mucous taste in the mouth.
/
Nausea. -Sensation of coldness in the abdomen.- Griping in the hypogu~
trium, with discharge of flatulency.- After meals, a vehement rending in the
sole of the foot, which prevents treading on the ground.
..
183. Terebinthinre oleum.
o;l •f ,.,.,,,.,;,.•. - o...... r,.,,.,;,.~l.
Predominant effect•: DraUJing in tle limb•.-Heavineea of the .limb&- &ma·
tion of 1tijfnu• in oU the mu.cle•, walking with difficulty, Blow and bent, like as
in old age. -Dropsy.
Cutaneous eruption, like .scarlatina.
Coma. - Late sleep. - Restleu •leep ot night, .with jactitation and frequent
awaking.- Many dreom~.- Night-mare.
Raised temperature of the body.- Fever with violent thirst.- Profuse per·
spiration on the legs, in the .evening in bed.
Insanity.- Facility in reflecting.
Reeling in the .head, with nausea. - Paroxysms of giddinel!S, with danger of
falling, ·and acotomia.
Pruling heodache, with inclination to vomit. - Great heavinese and preesiug
fulnell in the heod. - Rending headachE'.
Black points and spots before the eyes.
Tingling in the ear&
Epistaxis.
Drawing toothache. - Loo1e, reodily bleeding gum, attended with a burning
pain 118 if bruieed every morning.
Diminished appetite. - Loathirtg of meat. - After meals, pre&~~ure in the pjt
of the stomach, and distention of the abdomen•.
Choking, aftd vomiting qfmucut.
Digitized by Coogle
Terebinthinre oleum.- Thea. 393
The region of the stomach excessively tender to the touch. - Preseure in the
stomach and scrobiculus. - Burning in the 1tomach.- Gastritis. '
Burning and pressure in the hypochondru.- Preesure, burning and drawing,
in the region of the kidneys.
The abdomen exce88ively tender to the touch. - Heavinel!ll, fulneM and pre•·
1111re in the abdomen• .:.... Cutting in the epig88trium ~nd hypogastrium, frequently
extending into the thighs.- Sen.ation of coldnen in the abdomen, chiefly exter-
nally in the umbilical region, which is retracte.d.- Enteritis.- Rolling, grum-
bling and rumbling in the abdomen.- Forward pre11Ure in the groim, 88 iffrom a
hernia. - Painfuli!Welling ofthe inguinal glands. ·
Constipation, with distention of the abdomen.-Ineffectual urgency to etool.-
Small, hard 1tooll. - Dry, brown evacpations.-Papescent stool, with griping in
~ the abdomen, and burning in the anus. - Thin, greenish yellml! purging 1tooll,
ll7it1 tlilcla4rge oftap«DDf'fR cmd ltmlbricoide1.-Burningand creeping in the anu•,
. during and besides evacuation.
lechury.- Diminilhed micturition.-Exceesively increased urinal diecharge.-
TAe urine ~melling very mucA like violet•.-Thick, mucous, wbitish yellow eedi-
ment in the urine.- Hematuria.- Burning in the urethra, al.eo when urinating.
-Burning cutting and·spasmodic urgency in the bladder. - (Gonorrhcea1)
Cutting and spumodic drawing in the teaticlee and aeminal cllord.-Retarded,
sparing menstruation.
Thin, watery defluxion from the nose, without coryza.
Difficult respiration, 88 from a surcharge ofthe lungs.
Drawing pain in the.back and 1acral region, chiefly in the evening, when Bit-
ting.-Drawing from the neck into the occiput. ·
Wrenching pain and drawing in the upper-arm.-Drawing and rending in the
hips and thighs.
t8.4. Thea.
Antidote.: cinchona, ferrum, t~uya.
General 1en1ation ofgreat weakne11. - Aversion to exercise and it~clintttion to
lie down.
Sleeple1me11.
Moro1e fretfulne81, with aversion to every thing, and dil!inclinlltion to the least
exertion.- lndUpqled to talk.
• Giddiness with unconsciousnel!ll, when walking in the open air.- Dizziness
and heavines~~ in the forehead, chiefly when walking.
Offensive odour in the mouth, in the morning, after awaking.- Sensation of
hunger, with much watery IIRliva in the mouth. - After a small meal sudden
satiety, with unpleasant dryness in the mouth.-Aversion to all food.
Qualmi8hne•.• and wambling, with greatftaccidity ofthe 1tomach, which hangs
down like an empty.sack.-Pre88UJ'e and rolling in the region of the stomach.
Digitized by Coogle
i.L- - - - - - - -
394 Theridion. - Thuya.
f 85. Theridion.
lt amwers well after calcarea, lycopodium.
Great generalweakne11 with tremor of the limbs.- G':eat irritation, which
allows of no labour.- &a-sickne11. -Gastric complaints.
Great sleepine81 and dreamful sleep.- Profound sleep itt night.
Vehement chill, .with heaviness in all the limbs, sleepiness and nec~ity to lie
down, after breakfast. ·
Dejection and want of self-confidence.- Liability to be frightened.- Time
passes too quickly.- Great averlion to labour.- Difficulty ih thinking compar-
atively.
Dizziness of the head, which allows ofno labour. - Giddine~~~ when stooping.
- Giddine11 with namea, even to vomiting.
Headoche behind the eyes. - He fet>la so thick ih the head, lUI if it were the
head ofsome one else.-Yiolent headache in the forehead, with throbbing which
extends to the occiput.- Headac11e .with the commencement of every motion.-
Tightening pressure around the head, as if from a ring in the root of the nose,
extending over the ears.- Headache in 1he evening, with great dejection.
Frequent paroxysms ofgliltering before the eyes.
Buzzing in the ears.- Rmhing in the ears like a cataract.- Excessive sensi-
tiveneas of hearing, with giddiness and namea from every strong sound. - Vehe-
ment itching behind the ears.
The lower maxilla sometimes immoveable, particularly in the morning, after
awaking.
Mucus and a coarse &ellSiation in the mouth.- Every soitnd, likewise coldness,
painfuUy affect• tlee teeth.
Appetite for acids, likewise for tobacco-smoking, wine and whisky.-Constant
appetite to eat and drink, without knowing what.
Namea and vomiting at night, preceded by giddineas, renewed by the leat
motion, also when shutting the eyes.
Constipation.- Small, pnpeacent stool, with much urgency. -Protrusion of
the anus, with pain in it, when sitting.
Increased urinal discharge.- E~ceslive •eml delire.- ShriveUed scrotum.
Much sneezing and defluxion of water from the nose, without coryza.
Vehement stitches, in tf!e upper part of the chest.- Inclination to breathe deep
and to sigh.
Itching and tuberdes on the buttocks.
186. Thuya.
l'lo•r• eeeiU.Iali•.- !'Ia• ''" .rlif• (llo• jMier).- c.,• . k6•N•bau•- Sa(t.
Duration oft;ffect: 7 to 8 weeks in chronic cases.
Antidote: camphora.
Digitized by Coogle
I
Thuya. 395
U1ed ttl an anticl,ote for thea.
It amwer• 1D6U after nitri aeidum.
After it ani!Der t~~eU (asa), nitri acidum, pulsatilla, etaphy1111gria.
. Predominant effect•: Stinging in the limb3 and jrnnt1. - Crackling in the
joint8, when stretching the parts.-Diltetttion ofthe eutietdar veint.-Twitehing
ofsingle limb!.- Inflammatory tumefaetionlvritA redne11. - Disorden from over-
heating, drinking tea, also from rich food ·and onions. - Syeotic eomplaintl.-
Arthritic complaintr. - Tremor of single Imtb!,·
..- The limb• readily benumbed,
chiefly at night when getting awake. -The· complaints are moetly increased in
the afternoon, and at night towards 3 o'elook, also prevent from Bleep in the even-
ing.- Many complaints are also increased when at rest and by W1lrmth, chiefly
of the bed, and are l'etieved by exercise, cold temperature or perspiration.-Many
CQmplaintll seem to originate partieularly in the left side.
General etift'ness and heavinefl8 in all the limbs, chiefty the shoulden and
thigh&- Weaknese of the body, with. unrestrained mental activity.- Fre~
jerking in the upper part ofthe body, in the day-time.-Veh.
ement agitation of the
blood in the evening, with pulaation in all the veins, WOJ'IIe by exereil!e, relieved
by sitting down.-Aversion to exereil!e. -
Painful tendernell8 of the ekin.-Itching pungency in the •kin, chiefly in the
evening and at night.-Suppurating pimples, like chicken-pox.-Condylomata.-
Furunclea.-Chilblains.-Brown or red marbled spot8 on the skin.- The mort
eutaneom complaint• are relieved by the touch.
Great sleepiness in the evening.- Late 1leep, from restlel!snese and dry heat.
-Sleeplei!I!DCI!IIat night, with restlell8nee~and coldness of the body.~ Unrefresft-
ing 1leep at night.- After falling uleep, immediately heavy, anziom dream~ of
danger IUld death, with startling and shrieking, chiefly when lying on the left lide.
-Wanton dream~VIithout 1eminal emillion, with painful erections when getting
awake. •
Chillinese with gaping; after midnight.-Chills every morning, without thirst.
-Shaking chills, with internal and external coldness (and thiret), immediately
succeeded by perspiration.- Chills every evening (at 6 o'clock), with external
heat, dryne~~~~ ofthe mouth and thirst.-Heat in the evening, chiefly in theface.-
Perspiration when beginning to sleep.
Dejection. -AnxioUI! solicitude about futurity.- Re1tle•me,, which caUI!ell a
disgust ftt every thing.- Great terupuloume11 about the leaet trifles.-Wearinel!ll
of life.- Ill humor and peevishness.
.Slow talking and reflection, teith searching for tOOrtU in conver1ation. - In-
ability to reflect.
The head muddled, like intoxication, chiefly in the morning, with nsusea.-
Weakness ~tnd dizzinese ofthe head, ttl ifthe brain were torpid and dead.- Giddi-
ness, as iffrom rooking. - Giddine11 when riling from lilting, and in lying, or
when looking at a height.
Headache, in tlJe morning, ae iffrom stooping or too profound sleep, with red-
nel!ll of countenance.- Doll, stupefying headache.- Headache, increaeed by
bending forW1lrd, relieved by bending the head backwarde. - Heavine• in the
Digitized by Coogle
396 Thuya.
occipat, chiejly in the morning, wheft moaking, with peeviehness and disinclination
to talk. - Headache, as ifthe forehead would fall out; with internal chilliness, ~
lieved by walking in the open !"r·-Jerking pre~ring heflilache in the forehead
and temples.- Compressing headache, chiefly in the temples.- HeadachP. as ifa
'tu~il were t4nut iJt.to the flet'tell:.- Rending in one halfofthe aineiput and lace, ex-
tending into the zygomatic bone, chiefly in the morning and evening. - Rending
jerking in the occiput.- Stitches through the brain.- Congeltion 'ffthe blood to
·the laead.-Pulsation in the temples.
GN!ut external pairifulnu~ oftlae lift ride ofthe head, even ofthe hair, at night
in lying, and when touched. - Preeaing drawing in the temporal mUIICies, cbi~fly
when mastieating.- Stinging in the temples.-IJUteJtded ~on the temples.-
Itcbing and pricking on the ecalp. ·
Pain in tlae eyes, as from 81Uld,:prenilag and bi&ing.-Rendiug in the eye-brows.
-Stinging in the eyes, from bright light or'llbarp air.-" Bwning mthe eyes.-
lnJiamed. reddish conjtmetiva. - Hard ittflammutory 8tt!elling of tl&e IMU.- Red
painful nodes on the margins of the lids.-Itehing pimples in the eye-brows.-
Condylonwta' ill the eye-brow.- Heat and sensation of dryness in the extemal
canthi.- The eyes, chietly the ~ft, ninning in the open air.-The lids glued ~
gether.- Obscuration rif right, when reading, with seDation of sleepines& -
Cloudy dimsighliedness.-.Vyopia.- Black flying spots before the eyes.
Squeezing, compressiog otalgia, with violent stitehu, mostly in the evening.-
Spamwdic pair& on the e.J:terior ofthe em-•..._ Throbbing and rending in the ear, in
the evening in bed, with fro3quent micturition, and coldness of the legs and feet.-
Pressing pain behind the ears.
· Swelling of the winge of the nose,. with hardness and tenaion.- Drawing
tension in the nasal bones. ~Painful scab1 in the nose. - Blowing out blood from
the nose.-Frequent epistall:is, chiefly after overheating.
Heat in theface, frequently only transient, sometimes also with a burning red-.
ness. - Perspiration in the face. - Itching, seurfy eruption in the face.- Red
fMUnful nodes on the temples. - Boring and grubbing pain in the t:ygomatic bone,
relieved by touch.
'.l'IDitching in the lips. - E1B.oreecence on the lips and chin. - Sting:ing in the
lower maxilla, through the ear outwards. - Swelling ofthe submaxillary glands.
Pressing tooth-ache at\er drinking tea, extending into the maxilla.- Acute
drawing tooth-ache, chiefly during meals.-.Erettinggnawing pain in the (hollow)
teeth, with painfulnei!S ofthe whole side ofthe head, increased by every thing cold,
al80 by mastication. - Swollen painful gums.
Aphtht%.- Swelling of the salivary glands, with much saliva in the mouth._;
Bitter or bloody saliva.- Sensation ofsoreness in the point of the tongue, when
touched.- Ranula, on both sides of the tongue, ofa pellucid, blueish-gray and ge-
latinous appearance. - SlotD speech.
The throat rough and husky.- Pressure and se718ation rifsoreness in the throat
and on the palate, whtn swallotcing.- Necesaity to swallow.- Stinging from the
pharynx into the ear.- Swelling of the tonsila and the throat.-Blood-red phlegm
is hawked out. '
· Insipid and sweetish taste in the mouth, in the evening and after meals.- Bit·
ter taste .ofbread.-Food WJUllluifnot ult enough.- TAir1,t, Oflly «t night·and
Digitized by Coogle
. '
Thuya. 397
iA the rnot"!Wtg. - Lon~ng for oold food and liquids.-Boon tatiated when eating.
- .Disorders from rich food and onion&-After meals, great eluggishneas or lang·
uor witb llllXiety and P,&lpitation of the heart, or strong distention with flatulency.
Riling qf what hu /tee. eaten, after weal& - Putrid or 6itter enectarion.-
Raaeid eructation, chiedy·after rich food..
Nausea Md wamblingin the region ofthe stomaeb.- Vomjting ofa t!IOur fluid
and of what has been eaten.
Spasm in the stomach, intolerably increased towftl'de .evening.- Pretii!Ure in
&he pit ofthe stomach, after meals, with painfulneae to the touch. -Throbbing in
the pit of the stomach.-Anxiety in the acrobiculua, rising up to the head.
Pressing pain in the hepatic region.- Prenure iA the region qf the kiCMyl.-
Inflammation of the kidneye.
· Disteruion of ·tlae 41bclomen9 ·frequently attended with a epumodic contracting
pain.-Teneion in the abdomen, 8(' iflaced.-PreMing paipe in thellypogastrinm,
chiefly towards the side (before evRCual.ion).- A sensation in the hypogastrium,
as if froru something alive. - Rumbling cmd rolling in the abdomen. - Inward
prel!lliog pain in the groin&- Drawing in the groins, when walking and standing,
with stinging through the thighs downwards, when sitting down.- Ptrinful
3tDeUing of the inguinal g~, attended_with a drawing pain down to the knee.
Coutipstion, for .neral day•, alt!IO after seminal emu.ion&...,. Ineffectual ur-
gency to stool with rigor of the peoia.- Di,lkult evoetUJtion ofhard, thick, bloocl·
eovered fiecee. - Blood discharged with the eklol. - Paittful contraction qf t1te
anut, during evacuation.-Burning on the aoos and in the nau!.. - Condylomatll
on the canut.-Rending through the rectum upwards.
Frequent urgency to urinate, with a copioUI dilcwge of watery urine, also at
night. - Cloudy aediment in the urine. - Bloody urine. - After micturition the
urine dribbles long. - A 1enlfltion 111 if t1 drop ~~~ere running forward in the ure-
tArca, beaidea and after micturition.- Burning in the urethr11, chiefly in the mor-
ning IUld at noon, alt!IO after and durittg micturition.- Stinging in the urethra
during and beaidea mictnrition.-Biting in the female pudenda, when urinatin~.­
Itching in the urethra.- Gonorrluza.
Copious per8Jiiration on the genitals, chiefly the acrotnm. - BaltlnoblenJ&Or·
rhac. - Condylomatca on the gleaM per&il and the pr~ium, chiefly with the in·
creue oftbe moon moiltening, suppurating and itching.-Chanere-like ulcers on
the pneputium. - Swelling o( the pneputium, - Stinging in the ecrotnm and
penis, through the seminal cord upwards to the naYel.- Drawing in the teatictea,
of which the (left) one ia drawn up. - Continued pairiful erectionl, chie.fty at
t&ight cand in the morning, with atitchea in the urethra.- Seminal emillionl, with
a sensation of constriction in the urethra. - Prostatic fluid escaping. - Copious
watery dilieharge from the penis.
Itching and sore burning biting on the pudenda. - Pressing on the genitale.-
Spasmodic contracting pain in the genitals, extending up to the hypogastrium.-
Swelling and eoreneaa of the labia pudendorum. - Common VHJrtl on the mouth of
the uterm, with stinging and burning, when urinating.- Menstruation too small.
- Leuoorrh«ea. ·
----
Grt~wetlo, wbich•becomea running in the open air, with collltant headaebe.-
M
- Digitized by Coogle
398 Thuya.
Deftwtion from !he nose with cough aud hoen!enea.- Greenish, oil'etieive d;..
charge from the noae. /
Hoar•enu~, 118 if from contraction. ofthe larynx. - Stingins and ereeping in
the trGChea.
Cough, in the morning, from tickling in the traehea. - Cough from ouer~
leating. - Expectoration of gray, yellow or 8'reell globulee with the cough. -
Cough, tDith eXpectoration of 11 yelloto mucu1 and paiD in the eerobicatua, in tile
afternoon. •
Obstruction ofthe b~h, with Yehement thin& "'r water, and great aDXiety.-
Tightnet!B of the chee«, with inclination to breathe deeply.- Oppreeaion, now iD
the left side of the cheat, then in the left hypoehondrium, with irritation to cough.
Pain in the che1t, 111 if there JDere 10111ethi71B' grDflm f..t.- Pn.ure in the
chest, also after meals. - Reetle.net!B, and·a ee08ation of distention in the cheat.
- Stitchel in the che1t, chiefly lifter drinking coltlliquidl.-Agitation ~f the blood
in the chest, and 1trong audible palpitation of Ike hetwt, cbiefty when a~eentling
1tep1. - Palpitation of the heart with.nausea. - PainfuJnet!B in the region of thtr
heart.- Bluene11 ofthe lkin about the clawiclel,
Pains in the neck, bBek and IRCral resion, 118 if stiffand beaten, ehiefty in the
morning, after rising.-. Drawing in the back and eacral region, when eittiug.-
Boriog in the back.- Pulllation in the epine.- Furuncle on the bGCk.- Reatle&l!-'
neee in the neck, throat and chest.- Tealion in the 1kin ofthe neck, tDhen mo11ing
the head.-Swollen glands of tbe throat. - Diltended weim on ,the neck.- C'AifMu
perlpiration in the arm-pit1.-Brown spots unde11the lll'm&, like moles.
Throbbing in the joint of the ehoulder.- Reading throbbing pain, ae from an
ulcer, from the 1hotdder dovln to the jinger1.-Wrenching pain in the &boulder
and upper-arm, with crackling in it.- Grubbing drtiUiing in the .,.,.., 118 if in the
bones or the periosteum.- Involuntary jerkl in the arm., in the day-time.~ Sen~
sation of coldness on the arms, at night. - Stinging in the arm. and their joint1.
- Knacking in the joints of the elbows, when stretching the arme.-Red marbled
spots on the fore-arms.- Tremor of the arms and banda when writing.- Sensa·
tion ofdryness of the akin of the bands.- Per:lpiration ofthe htmt.l.. - INtended
veim on the hands. - Coldnese and deadnen of the finger• aJ&d their point•, fre·
quently extended up to the fore-arms.- Tingling and·stinging in the points of the
fingers. - Red, painful 1weUing of the pointl of the finger•.- The pains in the
arms are increased by warmth, or when the arms hang down, and relieved by
exercise, cold temperature and al\er perspiration.
Drawing in the legs.- Sti.nging in the leg• and their jointt.-Great weakness
and lang!lor of the legs, chiefly when a..<ocending steps.- Heaviness and stiffiless
of the legs, when walking.- Copious perspiration on the thigh& and genital&-
ltching on the thighs.- Pimples on the buttocks, thighs and kneea.- Uleers on
the thigh&.- Crackling in the joints of the knees and feet, when stretching the
limbs.- Suppurating bladders on the knees.- Vehemently itching, white nodes
on the calves. - Painful injlamrTilllory sweUing and redne11 of the ridge of the
foot and the points of the toe1, with tension when treading on the ground and
moving. - Red marbled spots on the ridge of the foot. - Perspiration of the feet,
chiefly the toes.- Chilblain~ on the- toes.
,
Digitized by Coogle
Tiglii oleum. - Tongo.
t87. Tig1ii oleum.
399
Stupecying prurirag AeccLtcle ita tM forell.eatl, cltiejly in the orbiU of tlle eyu,
increued in a room and towards evening, disappearing in the open air.
Teaderne. ofthe exterior ofthe head; the pl'eiiiiUl'e of the hat cauBetJ headache.
Dryneat in the thnat; with irritability of the pharynx, aalfin croup.- Burn-
ing i• 1M~·..- Tile pharynx feels'u ilcolllltrictedr ·
Nat#ec lllit.\ itacliutim& Co womit# and a long remaining loathing and uneui-
nea- Qul.Ulane• Ia tM W'Citriua ad lypogCitrivm, with ineffectual vom-
iturition.
&uctiOII of~ ad~ ia tM 1tomcch, with nausea and anorexia.
Premwe ia 1M hypoc1oUret.'-Inward coldneaa in the whole abdomen, with
external warmth.- C.Uirag i• tM G6clotRm.
Greenish yellow tlitwr.,_, toitl tftiUIIItl6t and cuttin« in the abdomen.- Con·
.Upation &uaa iaaetinty ofthe bowell.
t88. Tongo.
P..-..i•at ~: RencJin« in die lim._, ~eel by external preesure and
exercise.-~The moat complaints ariae when sitting and at rea&. -Some of the
paina cliaappear after eating. '
Peevilhaeaa and ill humor.- DMiacliaa&ioD to labour and to talk.
Dizziaeaa of the heed, cbiefty the oeciput, wi&h drowllineaL
Heaitaal Ia t1e 1uul, chiefty when riaiJag &om stooping.- Prea!ing, reruling
mad It~ Ia t1e 1uul, ebiedy when entering a room, with rending in one aide
of the face and great peevilluMea. - StingiiJ« in the heed when laughia«. -
~ ~. particularly in the left aide.-~ uee ofvinegar abates ~
headache.
Bxceaaive tendemeaa of the exterior ofthe head.
Btm.iag Mtllrpa• ia t1e ega, in the eYening, when l'tllldin«·- Drawing,
telllion and quivering in the lida.
Rending in the ears.
P-'enu~ of ~e, with redoeal ofthe eheeb.- ReadiD8 in the muiJ.
lary boneL
~ IDGt1-cclte, cbiefty in the molanw, increued by pnaiog upon them,
aad abated by the 1111e of vinegar. - &.r 6looC eomell· out tiom the teeth and
gwpa.
Collectima ofmuclt tiHiler ia tM fliOIII1. - Seraping and rough &eDII&tion in the
.throat.
Digitized by Coogle
400 Tongo.- Toxicodendron.
Eructation, u iffrom bitter almonds.
Burning and cutting in the hypochondre~~, u if externally. - ReYolution aDd
griping in the abdo~en. ·
lnefff!Ctual urgency to eYacuate.- Hard .aool with preeaior.- Diarrbcn, suc-
ceeded by great eensitiveneaa in the abdOIQeo.
Sparing urine, with a white eediment.-Wine-colored urine, wi&h mueh mu-
eoue 'eecliment..!- Red urine, with a eopioWJ clay-eolorecl sediment.
Meutruation too soon 'retuminr.- Leueorrbala, dileharsed in walking.-
Thick mueua discharged from the vl(ina (with the pi'Miior toetool).
Coryza with obstruction ofthe DOlle.
HOGT~er~U6, with burning in tAe larya:.c.
Stinging and burning under the riba of the chest.
Pains in the small of tb~ back, with great tendernetl8 to the touch.
, · i sg. Toxicodendl'on.
Duration ofeffect: 6 to 8 weeka in chronic ea11e11.
Ant_idote•: belladonna, bryonia, eamphora, coffee, sulphur.
U•ed a an antidote for antimonii tartru, bryonia, rhododendron.
It a716tDen tDeU after amica (in woundinga), ealcia phoepbaa, ehamomilla (m
fevers), lachesis, phosphorus, sulphur. _
After ila7161Der wU bryonia, pboephorua, pboephori aeidum, pulaatilla. auJphur.
Predominant effect•: RheuTIIIJtic and arthritic tenrion, drawing and t'e114ing.
in the limbs, fiW6t .ehement tDhen al rut, with a Bell88tion of numbneaa and dul-
net!S of the part affected, whlln it ie moved. - Spa8m and straining, as if from
deeurtation of tendons, in different parts. - Crooking of single limbs.-Tighten-
ing •tinging and ltift'neaa in the joint6, more when rising from sitting and in the
open air.- Dilabling 6tiffiaeN in tAe limb•, .cbiefty when beginning to move a part .
after rest.- Pllf'alym, al.eo ofone aide, tDith tingling in the part• affected.~ Im-
loeatiom, also spontaneoUs.- m-der•from tiJf'Ong lifting.-Red, ahining t•me-
factiom, with a pungent pain when touched.- Sensation as ·if beaten, or 116 if
thefte•h tDere loo•enedfrom the !Jtnu•, in single parts. - Pressing dra~ing in the
perio!Reum, M if the bone were •erapetl. - Exosaoei& - Caries. - Rhaehitie and
I!ICrophulous complaints. - Swelling and induration of the glands. - Ner«Y~U in-
jfamTIIIJtioM. - l'lfluen~a. - Disorders from .suppressed measles• ...,.. GM'ric com-
plaint•, chiefty at night.- Jaundice.- Twitching of 'the muaclea and limbs. -
Convulsions.- Tetanus.- OpUthotonU6.- St. Vitus' dance.- Complaints of one
side of the body.- The paina and complaints appear and are increiJ6ed tDhen at
re•t, or when entering into a room &om the open air, and relie11ed by ezerci6e and
walking.-Some complaints are renewed or exacerbated in the cold seaaoo.
General irritatjon of the nervoua system, increased by the least .anger.-DratD-
ing through all the limb1, aihen lying doum.- Trenaor of the limbs after the leut
Digitized by Coogle
'
Toxicodendron. 401
oertion.- Totaerin~ pit. -Great wMkne. aud languor, with inelination to lie
tlown.- Fainting fits. -Intolet'oru:e qft1ae Opet. .W, the cold u well u the warm;
it caWieiJ a painfuleelllllltion on the ekin. - ·
I~ on the whole body, chiety the hairy part&- Eryripdtltotu ~­
tiou.-Nettle-raA and other eruptioaa, cbiefty wftclllou, forming ati:Gb, Gild
.U~ witA bt&ming itclaing.-Varioloidee.- Carbun«>.leL- Herpetic eruptiom,
aleeraating with affection of the chee& aad dY~~enteric stool&- W•u, definming
the whole akin. - Rhagade& - Panaritia. - Tinlling or etingmg, or burning
biting in the uJcen, chiefly at ni«ht.- ClillNains.- Coi'WJ with burning and een·
ation ofaonme~~~.
Frequent, wlaement, lpCif#Wtlic goping.-Great ~in tile day.tiJRe, even
in Ole morning ui beci.-Coma, full of troubleeome, interrupted dream11.- Sleep-
~. chiefty bifore ntidt&iglct and moetly from a eenation of beat, agitation of
dte Wood, aud auxiety, which dri•e~ one out from the bed.-Gettiog awake Crom
a bitter tute and eeDI!IIltion of dryneee in the mouth.- The slet>p at night is diiJ.
turbecl by preM11J'e in the stomach, ~rtg griping in tlte li6domera aud inclina-
tion to vomit.-Inability to lie on the eide, at night.-Frigbtfull!tartling aud jerks
in the body, when fiilling uleep.- Reetlees alnmber, with jactitation aud many
vexatieaa &houghta and.reftections.- AnitnGted MetiiU of tile btuiAen of the day,
with loud talking in sleep. - Loud weeping in 81eep.
Clillt au ooldrae11, moetly towards e•ening, commonly commencing with
paroz,.,. ofpain tmtl other tiCCUWf'!l tymptoru. - SWing chilli ira the opera air,
with violent thint.- Cbi118, intermixed with belt, either general and eotemporary
(internal ebiUine11 with external heat, or opposite), or on different parta..:....Fnert,
ift tle neraing, ~nning with chiDe, after which heat tllitla tkir1t (11nd perspira-
tion), accompanied or aueoeeded by cutting in the abdomen and diarrh<ea. -
DoKhle-tertian fever; eoll8isting first of chill aud tbinlt, and then of general
warmth with ehillineee with every movement, aueceeded by perspiration. -
Dtwiag tlae clUll, .paint irt t1ae limb•• headache, giddineee, throbbing tooth-ache,
with coUfdion of water in the mouth and ioelimltioo to vomit. - During &he
noetumal heat, drawing through all the limbll.- During tltefever, jerks, tingling
in the eare, dyleeoia, p•edo, sleepleeene~~ with l'flltle8e jactitation, jaundice,
nettle-rub, gutrie complaints and noeturnel thirst.- Nf!rt10tU, typlwtu, pituitoui,
putrill tiH ~fever. - Per.,mmo., at night and ill -tile morning, alao ofa
110ur edour.
&Ill onziety aral tilf&Of'Ofllfte,, u if dying, chiefty Gt flight or ira tile evetaing,
with longing for eolitude and a ditporitior& to ttH!ep.- Rettlemte11, which does no~
allow of sitting quiet. - Fear of being peieoned.- Propensity for suicide. -,.Pee-
~ fretfulneee, with disinclination to every occupation.
Wealaaeee of memory and forgetfulnee~. - Thoughtless uneoMCioume~~. -
flow eoune of thinking and mental hebetnde.-WUiiona offantaey aud visioDII.-
Deliritl.
DiuU.U. of the ltet1tl, like intoziefltiort. - Stupe&etion. - Giddinut, tllitla
~ of flllliftg ,,wards and baekwsrde, chiefly when rising.from bed. -
Giddinell in the .eYening when lying down, with fear oldfoath. ·
Headache, immediately alter meak, or from dri.WO, beer, also from movbtg
Digitized by Coogle
Toxicodendron.'
the arm& - Paroxyema ofaribritic headeebe.- Pain·in the head, u &em a itlc·
cermcm qf t1e brain, exaoerba&ed by moving .&he eyes.- Preuiag fulftUII ad
leavilleu qfthe head, with a lell88tion u ifthe brain would fall out from the.tore--
heed, I!Melallooping. - Dillevering or comprellliog pain in the head.- Drawing
and reading in the head, chie6y the &emple8, and eapecially in the evening and at
nighL- 8tiraging ~, day and night, extending into the ears, the root of
the noee, and zygoma&ic bona, with painlulneea of the teetb.-Throbbiag and
puleation in the head, chie11y the occipuL- Congeetlon of blood to the head.-
Burning, chieJly in the fOrehead and oceipuL-Pairtf.Z crupirag on tile laead.-
Buzzing and bumming in the head.- An undulating HnHtion irs the leal, wi&b
every 11tep, "' iftile bram .,ere loNe.
Painfulnees of the exterior of the head, 88 if teetering, chit.dy when hruehiug
the hair beckwarde and when touehing.- Contraction of the IIC81p, 88 if.the hair
were pulled. -Drawing and rending on the aca1p.- ~Ui"6 oftle head;-Fret-
ting creeping on the IIC&lp.- Dry herpu on the.iWy part of1M laecd.-Periodieal
annually ~turning lccld. -Thick acurfy acald, eating a10t1J the lair, UJith •
greetailh pu3 and Nlaement JWCturnlll'itchi"K.
Pain in the eyes, when moving and turning the eye-bella.- Pre..ure and
burning in the eyea.- Biting in the eyea and lid& - l'llfdmmation oftle eyu arl
lith, .nth redneu and agglutirsation at rsight, also with arthritic individuals. -
The eyes running with water, and lippittulo. - Swelling of the lid111. - &DeUing
ofthe 10/wle eye and it• circumfereRee.- Hordeolum.-:- PaJey.Jike torpor and stiff':'
ness in the lid111. - Twitching and quivering of the eyes and lid& - Incipemt ·.
a~.
Otalgia. - Painful throbbing in the ear, at nighL -Swelling of the ean. -
Bloody purulent dilcharp 'from the ear&, w,ith dyaecoia. - l'lfllantmatory .weUing
oftlae parotid gland.
Red point of the noee, 1Dith a .m.atioa ofiiOJ'eneu, when touebed. - Swelling
of the noee.- lnflammatioa of_the ~~Me, alao of i&a interior.- Greenish, fetid
purulent discharge from the noee.- Ep;.ttu;W, aZ.o at kiglat and 10Am .tooping,
hemming and hawking.
Countename pale, mil!lerable, sunken, with blue-borilered eyee and pointell
nose.• - Disfigured, distorted countenance. - Erpipelatoa i'fllammation tml
NeUing oftheface, with a tightening preesing.pungency and burning creepin«--
Venculotu tryftpela• mthe face, with a yellowieh water in the vesicles.-Crueta
lactea. - Chronic auppuratirag eruption mthe face. - Herpetic CI'U8lJ eruption
about the nose and mouth, with ~hiq jerking and burning.... Deequamatioa of
the cuticle in the face.- Cutting contracpOn and burning equee&ing in the cJaeeke
(with beat and roughneee oi them),
About the lips and·chin, aburning eftloreecence.- Spumodic pain io the
maxillary joint, with knacking and erepi&ation in it, with every motion. - 7n.
mtu.~ Hard, painfulewelling of the eubmaxillary gland&
Tooth-ache, 88 ifbruieed, or rnling, •tingi"K jerking, gmbbing and ti7a6ling,
frequently increased at ft\rht, or in the open air, and reliewd bg e.Werrurl wannth;
appearing alSo after a cold·, ud in arthritic pei'IIODIII.- I..ooeene. of the teetb.-
Stench from hollow teeth. - Burning leiLIIltion of eorene. in the g1111111, aJeo
at nigbL
, DigitizedbyGoogle
Toxicodendron.
DrynEll!ll of the mouth, with great tbirllt.- Mtlch "'litltl, Sowing out/rom the
IIIOUtA.- YeDow, aleo bloody 1alit111 .flow• DIU from the mouth, at night.- Much
vilcid pbJegm in the mouth, which frequently i.e spit out.
Sore throat, • if&om an internal swelling, with a dull pain, aleo when speak·
iog, and • pruawe 4tld tlingiftg, wlaeft 111Jallotllir&g. - Much viaeid phlegm in the
throat, with hquent hawking, in the morning. - Throbbing pain behind in the
throat.- Oesophagitis.
Putrid t41te, chiefly in the morning and al\t!r meals. -IDBipid, mucoUB, or
acrid, bit&erieh-eour or coppery tote in the m_
outh.- Bitter tute of the food,
chiefty bread, which tutes coarse and dry.- Anorezic, vntla cwerrion to tDtf'y
thing, espeeWly to lwutl, meat, eoft'ee and wine. - SeiUI&tion of fuln.- and
I&Uety. in the stomach, which destroys appetite.- .After meall great llupineu,
prei8Ul'8 and ~ ia tlae 1temach arul abdomen, inclination to vomit, Janguor,
giddW.. and shuddering. - Pain and heat in the bead from drinking beer.-
nir•t• ·IDOIItly jrort& • HUatiol& ofdrpeu in the mouth, al10 at night,.and in the
moroiDg, panieululy ibr water and cold milk.- Great desire fur delicacies.
Eruetatien, with the taste of what has been eaten.- Vacant eructation, after
eating or clrinking. -Vehement eructation, 1Dith a creeping 1e111atioft iB the ltom-
ch, relie•ed by lying tlown, renewed by rei.ejng up the bo!fy.
NCV~M crttl i.-clirulritm te vomit, especially after eating and drinking, a1eo at
Bight or in the morning after rising, relieved by lying down.
Pain in the stomach, as if a stone lay ln it, ehiefty after meals.- Preuure in
the .-tmuelw~"'• frequently attended with oppreesion of the breatb.-
.Throbbing and stinging in the region efthe IICI'Obiculua.
Die&eneicm of the abdomen, J1811ieularly after meals.- Pl'ftlling beavin.- in
the abdomen, as from ·a weight. -Contracting '1fU1III in tlae ~. which
make it DeceBIIIU'J to walk crooked.- Vi.eible, hard contraction of the abdomen,
obliquely above the llavel. - ·Grubbing winding in the abdomen, as if &om a
worm. - Cutting rending, jerking and gripir&g ift the a6flomm.-Burning in the
abdomen.- Flaccidity in the abdomen, with shaking in it by every e&ep.- Ab-
clcmaiul pGiu at ni&'lat.- Pain in the integuments, u if they were uleeroua,
chiefty in the morning, when stretching. - Forward preasure in the groins.-
Inguinal hernia. - Much ftatuleney, with rolling and revolution in the abdomen.
- ~vely ktid ftatilleney.
Coutipation.- TeM~mtu with nausea and rending ~r griping in the abdomen.
- WaterJ or fJtUCOU, gelatinoUB, red, or yellowish- and white-streaked, . frothy,
aleo·61oot1J dWrrluiric ltooll.- Dysenteric, also chronic purging stools.~ Entirely
white stool&- Nocttmaal diarrhClla, 1Dith viokmpaiM iB tlae abclomm, w)licb dis-
appear after evacuation.:..Short breath, with the ltool.-Creeping and itching in
the anus and rectnm. - After a eoft ltool, protrusion of the piles, with a eevere
pain.
Retention of urine.- Freqwmt wgmcy to armate, day and night, with n ift.
ereaed lVeJtM.ge.- lnc011ttnence ofurine, ehiefty when at I'Nt, where the urine
Iowa inwluntarily.-Duk urine, soon getting turbid.- Whitish turbid urine.-
Urine uelear u water with a white aediment.-Swelling ofthe urethra..:...Urine
diaeharged in a double lb'eam.
Brupticm on the geaitalt.-lntammaeicm ofthe glaM.-:-Moistening veeicle on
Digit~zed by Coogle
Toxicodendron.
the slana. - &DeUing of tlae glaru and preputivm. - ParapbimOIIis. - Red spots
iDilide the pl'l!lputium. - Swelling and thickening o( the scrotum. - Moistening
eruption on the scrotum. - Frequent·e~tions at night, with preMUre to urinate.
-Great irritation to cohabit, in the morning.
Menstruation too eoon and profuse. - Menetruation too long continued.- Die-
charge of blood in pregnant women. - Sensation of eoren._ and stinging in the
vagina.- Metritis.- The lochia tum bloody again.
Frflquent, vehement, aim~ 8p88modie sneezing.- CopioWI ctiecherse of naaaJ
mueua, without coryza.
HoareeneM and·roughnf1118 of the larynx, with rawneiiJ and Belltlation of sore-
D._in the chest.- 8enll8tion ofcoLlneflll in the larynx, whea breathins.- Euily
choked by swallowing. - Hot vapor exhaled ·from the trachea. - A eenBation of
eonatriction in the throat-pit, after a little walk.
Oowglt. from tickling in the orgtJ1U qfretpirtllion, mo~tly •lort and dry, with
anxiety and short breath, particularly in the evening and before miJmght.-Consh
in the evenins, with vomiting of what hu been eaten.- C011gl in the morning,
after tltiH.IIcing. - Short eo_ush, with a bitter taste in the mouth, in the enning
after going to .bed, and in the morning after awaking. - Cough .
with pain in the
stomach, or with shaking in the chest and bead. - COtlgh, 1Dith ·ezpectortllion of
bright-red blood, and eeneation of ftaeeidity in the eheet.- Ltmg contirtued h~
tim. .
Dyepna., after a short walk. - A~Wu. oppru~ ofthe chut, aleo at night.
-Short breath in the evening, with tension over the breut.
Wealmess in the ~best, whieb makes ~ing diflleult, after walking in the
open air.- A eeneation ofconstriction in the cheat.- fltinging in the ciae., aJ
it• rilu, chiefly when Bitting erookeil, when speaking and deeply breeth!ng, Jess
fioequent when walking or strongly exercising. - Tingling in the che•t, with ten·
lion in the pectoral muscles, increased by reat. - Congestion of blood to the cheat.
- Pneutntmia ~a.- Weakness and tremulau 8eft8Gtion ora the hem.-Ve-
hement palpitation of the heart, when Bitting qui4!tly.- Galactorrlaatl, or !Pppree-
eed secretion ofmilk, in suckling women.
' Pairu, a ifbetJten, in the 8mtJll oftlu baclc, chiefty when touched and when
at rest.- Painful stifth888 in the small of the back. - Drawing and BtingiDg in
the back, chiefty whf'n Bitting and stooping. - Rheumatic rending between tbe
alloulder-bJades, increued by eold, rel~ved by warmth.-OpUthotoraU8.- Rheu-
matic .tijfne.. ofthe nape and neck, with painful tension when moved. - Painful
l!rWellin~ ofthe axillary glaada.• ·
Rending del btm&ing "'- tu Motdler, Vlitla Iamme" qftlt.e.,., ebie1ly in the
cold aeuon, ~Men tit re8fand in the warmth oftbe bed.-Colelne-, iwrto6ility and
inmuibility oftlae arm.- Exoatoeie on the arm, with burning and ichoroWI ulcers.
- Eryripelat0118 81Ddling and burning itching pWitu. ora tle ..,.,.., banda and '
fingers.-Red epota on t)ae arms. -Jerking, stinging and rending in the upper·
arma.-Jerking, rending in tbejointa ofthe elboWB, handtl, and ftnpra.-Grub-
bing pain in the bones of the fore-um. - Powerleaan888 and BtiftbeBB or the tbre-
.rm. and fingera, when moved, and tremor of them after the least exenion.-
Ho& .welling of the banda in the evenia«.- Cluawry Teeiouloua eruption on the
Digitized by Coogle
Toxicodendron.- Urea.- Uva ursi.- Valeriana. 405
wrist.- Rluzgw• on the IHrck oftlie lumd. - SweUins ofthe tingera. - Jerking
in &be thumb&.- Crooking ofthe fingen.
ArtiritU UcAicttctJ, tDitA •ti~gittg arul rending mtlae joint ofthe hip, extend-
ing down to the bend ofthe knee, chiefty when walking, or with a dull drawing
and bumiag when at re8t, and JHJUifuhaeu of the joi11t, tDiaen riling from .Uting
and aecendins a&epe.-Luutio &pontanea. - Terurion and stiffness in the muBCles
and jointa ofthe hip!!, trugbe, legs, knees and feet.- 8ptum in the buttocka, thigh.e
and eaiYee, chiefly at 11iglat i1l bed, or tDhea rifting after walking. - Straining in
the knee, u ifthe tendo011 were too abort. - Drawing and jerking rendins in the
thighs and legto.-Stitcbee in the thighs and legB, knees, feet and toea.-Heavi-
,... in tM leg•, particularly the bends ofthe knees and the ealvea. - Paraly8ia of
the legs and feet.-White swelling on the thigh. - Stingins and f~Jt'tf~,C/aing poi1t
i1l tM IIIMlu, when tr'eading on the ground. - Swelling of the feet, in the even~
ing.- ToJ.por and deadneae ·of the feet. -Crooking of the toea. - Coma, with
burning and aeneation ofaoreneae. '
·i go. Urea.
Symp&ome ofthie remedy will be published in the "Corre1p011denzblatt".
i gt. Uva ursi.
.dr6.,., na wrd.- Brar'• 6rrrJ.- Go... Blrrl01,..6r.
Poinful micturition, attended with burning. -:-MucoUs, pm-like urine.-
~ematuria.
i 92. Valeriana.
Durotion ofeffect: several weeks in chronic casea.
Antidotu: belladonna, camphora, coffea, hydrargyrum.
~ effect.: Rlaevmcatic remling ia tie limb•, moatly not in the joints.
eli~ tDhen at rut, after motion, and commonly relieved by ~e, or altered
into other ae018tio011 in other places by motion. - Jerking, nuldenly eppeGring
Gnd concuuiwpcrim.- Pains, which appear when the body ie kept for a while in
the same poature, and are relieved by altered poaition.- Drawing and jerking in
the limbe, u ifin the bones.-Disabling pain in the limbe, at the end ofa walk.-
Periodical paroxyame, ~turning after 2 or 3 months.- Hypochondriac and hy..
teric complcmaU.- EpileJ:liiY. - Dilabling dulneea in the limb&. - DUorden from
tlae ..UU. of ~.-The moat oomplainta appear in the evening and after
dinner•.
General morbiG e.nltation and OHT-trritGtion, with seeming great hilarity and
e&reDgtb.- Dulneea in the extremities. chiefly the lower, in the morning.after
riliug.
Digitized by Go<?gle
-A -- ·- - - -
406 Valeriana.
Eruption, fi~ ofred confluent, anithen ofwhile, bard pimplee.
Sleeple•me,..- Restless eleep, with jactitation and anxious conf\ued dream&
Fever IDitA con~tant heat, after a short chill, with dizzinel!lll in the head and
thii'Bt.-:- Worm~fever.- Accelerated pulae.- Copiotu perlpiration, chiefty in
the fuce and on the forehead (frequently sudden and quickly dieappearin8 agabi).
An t.m.ftoa, hypoclumdriac ~en~ation, u ifaD around were deeert, dismal, and
Strange.- Tremtdour, joyful ezcatement.-Fearfulna. in the evenif,lg.-Retnark·
able alternation oftlae mort opporite 1tater qfthe fllintl. - Desponding humour.
Too rapid change of~u.-Dlusions ofthe 118118e11, and ofthe mind in general
Cloudine~~, u after intoxication.- Intoxication aDd thoughtlees etupeilction
·ofthe head.- Tuming Ui the laead, when •looping.
Headache, appearing .uddmly or by 1/wcb.- Hysteric headache.- Prutring,
or preeaing·•tinging heatlGcAe, c/aiefly in tlae /orehetul, tOtDardr the roclceu oft1te
eyu, frequently alternating with a lltupefying duJneee of the heiUI. - DrawiJI«
pain in one side of the head, after a draft of air.- Stupefying contraction in the
head, u from a beaTy blow on the Tertex. - Sensation of iey coldnties in the
upper•part ofthe head, occasioned by the pre88ure ofthe hat.
Dulness of the ·eyes, u if after a nocturnal debauch, chiefly after mea18. -
Pressure, burning and biting in the eye1.- Redness and painfulRUI ofthe ,..,..
ginr of the lidr. - SweDing and paintblna. of the lids. - Dimsightedne88. -
M!JOIM.- Clearne~~ and ihining before the eye•, in the dark, so that objeeta are
almost clistinguishable.-Sparks before the eyes.
Spasmodic drawing otalgia.-Twitching in the ear. -Tingling and ringing iD
theears. •
Spasmodic drawing pain in the facial bonea.-Redna. and heat in the cheeks,
in the open air.- White Tesicles on the cheeks and Upper-lip, painful to the
touch. ·
Stinging tooth-ache.
Tarte in tlae movth (and stench in the nOI!f'), like 1tinlcing tallout.-Bitter taste
on the point of the tongue, ·when licking the lips, after meals.- Insipid, mucous
tute in the mouth, in the morning after awaking.- Bulimia with nausea.
Eructation, u ofter rotten egg•, in the morning after awaking.-Frequent
vacant, or rancid, burning eructation. .
NliUiea with inclinotion to -it, and a l!lenation u ifa thread from the muees
hung down into the abdomen, with a ~pious collection of water in the mouth.-
Nausea, with syncope, pele lips, and coldness of the body.- Vomiting of bile and
mucus, with strong shaking chill8.- Nocturnal Tomit.ing.
Weak stomach, with weak digtlstion. - Prumre ix the pit of the ltoriiGcA,
suddenly appearing and quickly disappearing with clucking in the abdomen.
The hepet.ic region and epigutrium painful to the touch.-Pain.fWjerks in tbe
right hypochondrium.-Stitehes in the renal region when lliuing down.
Abdomen tlilltendetl and hard. - A aensation of el.rong dillteot.ion in the ••
domen, aa if it would burst.- Inclination to retract the abdomen.- A~Hlomiftal
cr~~m~, alao Aylteric, mOBlly in the evening ix bed or after ctinner, and not relieTed
by any particular poeition. - H~emorrhoidal colic. - Painful pinching and cutting
in the abdomen, when it is retracted.- Pain in tlae left side ofthe abdomen in the
Digitized by Coogle
Valeriana. - Veratrum. 401
..enirag. aa lfiotemally Ceeteriog.- ·Drawins, preiiiiUfe and Hftldtiot& of 10reneu
ia tAe lJPOKatnwn, the groins or abdominal mUIIClee, aa after a cold or after a
wrons lifting.- Undermining pain in the abdomen.
Purging ~tool..- Greenish papeacent·etoule, mixed with blood.- Painful
bOiiog in the reetum.-mood diechargecl fiom the anua.- ~.
Frequetat tlfld copioru micturition.
Dyepnma. and anxiety in the eheet.-Oppreeeive respiration, with a preesure
over the lower part of the eheet.- StitcAu i~ the cltut, allo in the lqt tide (region
of the heart), when inspiring.- Eruption of hard pimplee on the breast.
Drawiog pain in the back and acral region. - Pain in the lumbGr regUm, a
iffrom. a cold orfrom 1D1'fmK lifting.- Rheumatic pain in the aboulder·bladee.
Spasmodic drawing and jel'king, or rending in the upper•arlll8.- Diaabling
pain in the joints of the ehouldera and ~we, at the end ofa walk.- Eruption of
hard pimplee on the arma. -Tremor of the banda in writing. - Painful jerks
throush the hand.
Bumiog pain in the hip, in the evening in bed.- Spumodie drawing and
jerking in the thighs.- Great heavineea and wearineea of the lege and ahin·bonee.
- Dieabling pain ia the kneee at the end ofa walk.- TellllioJl in the ealvea of the
lege.- Rending in the ealvea, ehieily when e.naiog the lege.- Drawing in the
joints ofthe feet, in sitting•...oWrenehiog pain in the joints of the feet and anklea.
-Pain and etinging in the l&eell, ehieily whea aittiog.- Rendiog in the eolea of
the r. and on the ridgea of the toea.
i 93. Veratrum.
Duration ofeffect: about 3, 4 weeks in chronic diaeuea.
Amilote•: aconitum, araen. acidum, camphora, coffee,- hydrargyrum.
U1etl tJI IIR tmtilote for araen. acidum, cinchona, ferrum.
It mweoer• tDell after araen. aeidum, cinchona, euprum, phoaph. aeidum.
After it tJnftOW t~~eU araen. aeMium, arnica, einehooa, euprum, ipecacuanha.
Prerlomin-t effect.: Parozrmw of ptlin, wlticA ocCa.ion alt~J~JY• for a abort
time 11 kind of delirium and iu.mty.- Drawins pain in the limbe, ehiefty when
walking rapidly.- Prurirag .pain 111 if beaten, in the mUIICiel and bones of the
limba.-DUGbiing pein in the limb., aa after great atigue and debility.-Rending
in the exteneores, in sitting~- Pllim ill tA. limh1, wlicl Cd1I1IOt t-r the tDGnntlt
of the bed, are relieved by risins up. dW.ppear totclly wlaen lllalking llbout, and
mostly appear in the morning (at 4 or 6 o'clock).- Paine in the limbe exacerbated
in fall and epring, or with bad weather.-Paine increaeed by the talkins ofothers.
- Flaeeidity of the muaelee. - Numbneea of the limbe. - Stiftheea of the limbe,
chietly in the forenoon and after walking.- Tremor ofthe limhl.- ConeWJIIion of
the limbe, like electric ahoe~- Spumodie paroxyame and eonwlliw motioM oj
tie limb..-:-(EpiJ,:!pay.)- Tonie 8p8111DB.- Catalepril, like .yncope.-Bilioua and
g111tric, hyaterie Aypoelwndrille compltrint• ot different kinde. - Sporadic arul
Digitized by Coogle
Veratrum.
GIMtic chokns. - Dieordere fiom the milluee of cinchona. - SerophaJous com-
plaint& - btll•-'iou of interior organa, ehiefty 1M orgGU of digeetiora. -
Many complaints are renewed by rising up, while they are qniet in lying.
Getcer.l, pelay-li.ke, ndderl prottratitrm of•tnngtla.-Weak.n~ ooeeBioned by
the leut motion,..lao lortg COfltiJ&tfell uceNifle''-gtiOf', whieh allows of no other
poeture then Bitting or lying.-Tottering gait. ~ Faintirtg ~. with the 1ea.et mo-
tion.- Getceral emaciation. -T~ in the whole body, extended to the pointe
ofthe 6Dgere and tos.-lrritated by the open air.
Miliary eruptions, itching in the warmth, and after tiOfttehiog burniog.-
Nettle-msh.- Dry, ileA·like en~ptiou, with nocturnal itching. - Dry tetter.-
Desquamation of the epidermis.
DrOtDane.. or co.. vigil, with partial eoneciouenees, frisbtlbJ startling and tbe
eyes partially, or on one aide, closed.-:- NocturtUJl deeplumeu, IOitl& great-.riety.
- Too profound sleep. ...... Sleeping with the anna ~~&retched over the bead. -
1 A~ dr«U~N.- Moaning in eleep.
General coldne.1 oftiae VJiaole body tJ1Ul cold clammy ~t~~eatl, chiefly on the fore.
bald.-Shuddering and chilla with thiret ilr cold water.-Sbuddering IIDd gooee-
ekin, after drinking. - Intermittent fewer tDitA utemal ooldneu only.- &rong
~ clailll (suceeeded by beat and somewhat tbirety), tlam pertpiration, which
aoon changes into coldn4lll!ll.- CAilll tJtjirlt, IOitla muc:la tlairtt, then chills alternat-
ing with heat, then OOfUtllftlltut VJitla tlairlt.- Fttv& with internal heat only and
dark urine.- During chills, giddineea, nausea, pains in the back and eacnl
I'E'gion.- During heat, eonatant eoma or deliria with red countenance.- Quo-
tidian and tertian fever, and intermittent& in the morning and before midnight.-
Slow ne"ous fever. - Pulle 1low and Glmo1t eztinguiiAed, or 8ltlall, quick and
intermittent.- Etuilg pertpiring in tAt day-time, with every motion.
Melancholic penaivene11111, dolefulne11111 and inclination to weep. - Ineoneolable
aftlic;t.ion, with shrieking and hallooing about imaginary misfortune.- Ezceuive
onziety and timidity, tDitA 1Jf11Wtlaenlioru and alarmed Ofmlcience, mostly at nigAt,
or in the morning, frequently also always when rising from sitting or lying.-
Great fearfolne.• and frightfulnees.- Expectation ofdeath........ Dejection and des-
pair. -Aetive reetlessneea and agility, with great inclination to work.- Cheat
irritation by the least oeeasioo, frequently succeeded by anxiety and palpitation of
the heart. - Great taciturnity, with abUie when irritated. - Disposition to talk
about the fault& of others. - Ex0e11111ive merriment and loquacity. - JUror, with
raging, pusiou to bite and to tear every thing and inclination to escape.
Lose of memory.- Wallt of ileol. - Uneonsciousnees. - Mental ~
fJRd ilutJnity, with singing, whilltling, langbiog, running about and many fooliah,
also proud imaginations and actiona, or with pretentions to unfounded, fictitious
conditions.-ParoxymJS ofamorous and religious mania.- Deliria.
Dizzinees, as ifall were IOolle in &he head, chiefly in the morning.-Dulness of
all the &eD8C8.- Vertigo. -Intoxication ad reeling.
PGf'OZYiml ofarthritic laetJdache, toitla MUitG GRd 110miting.- Headache, with
painful lltiftbeea in the neck. - Headache, with a flo~ of urine.- Headache, by
attacks, a ift1ae brain VJere bruitedor dilGcerated.- Pre•nng laeGJGcAe, frequently
in the vertex, or in one side, with pain in- &be stomach.- CoiUitringing pain in
Digitized by Coogle
·V-erat111m.
the bead (and pharynx). -Cutting pain in the verteL - ConolJilllive ~in in the
bead, with jerks in the arms and palenees of the fingei'IL- Strong eongestion of,
Wood to the head, when stooping.-Throbbing utMlscAe, burning pain in the brain.
Sensation of external warmth and coldnees on the head, with tenliliveneu of
rile Mir. - Chilliness on the vertex (and the feet). - CoU pertpirtJtion on tM
forehead.
Pain in the eye•, RS ifthe eye-balls were brui8ed.- Ptrinful rending or com·
preuion in the eye•.- Con1tant heat in the eyu.- Bednees of the eyes.- &in·
ful inflammation on the eyu, with violent headache and noetumalllleepleMDetll. -
Dull, cloudy, yellowish eyes.- BlueneM oft)le eyes.- Watery appearance of the
eyN, 88 if they were covered with albumen.- Gre« drym11 ofthe lidt.-Copiotll
running of tM eye•, frequently with heat, cutting and sensation of drynees in
them.- The lide glued together in sleep.- Pally of the lidt.- Distorted, pro-
truded eyes.- Pupill fJery much contracted or remarkably dilated.- Vanishing ot'
eight. - Diplopia. - Night-blindneu.- Sparks and black spots berore the eyes,
chiefly when rising from sitting or lying.
Stinging in the eai'IL - Prf'88Ure in the eai'IL - Alternate sensation of heat ,
and coldneee in the eare.- Dytecoia, 88 from obetmction of the ears.- Rooring
in the ears, chiefly when rising from sitting.
The n01e icy-cold.- InftammRtion and ulcerous pain in the interior of the
n01e.- Pain in the D88al bone, 88 if it were preesed together and inward.- Epi.
etaxie, at night, or from one nostril only.-Dung·like stench in the nose.
Coumenanee pale, cold, mnken, death-like, teith a pointed ftOit and blue circles
around the eyes.- Bl~eishneM of the countenance. - Burning heat, dark redne11
and perspiration of the face. - Cold pertpiration in theface. - Drawing and tigh·
tening pain in one side of the face , extending to the ear. - Jerking and pinching
in the facial muacle&:- Pimples in the face, with a .,are pain when touched.-
Copper-pimples on the face.- Miliary eruption on the cheek.- Swelling of
. the face. ·
The lip• dry, blaekilh and cracked.- Eruption in the comers of the mouth. -
Coppery eruption about the mouth and chin.- Trilmm. - Swelling and painful· ,
neat of the aubl1111Xillary glande.
Tooth-ache, attended with headache and a red swollen countenance.- Pres-
sure and a een11ation of heavineaa in the teeth, with drawing in them, when maati.
eating even soft food.- Gnalhing teith the teeth.- Looeene88 of the teeth.
The mouth dry and viaeoUL- Salivation, with nausea or an acrid saltieh taate.
~ Froth at the mouth. - SeDIIation of eoldneea and burning in the mouth and on
the tongue. - Inflammation of the interior of the mouth. - Red and swollen or
dry, blackilh, cracked t~. - Yellowiah furred tongne.- Balbutiee.- Speed.·
leune11.-Senaation ofnumbneae a'nd great dryness on the palate.
Conltringing, choking pain in the throat, chiefly when swallowing. =-.. Con-:
•triclion of the pharyflZ, 88 if from a preaaing ewelling. - Distention iD the pha-
rynx, with danger ofsuffocation.- Sensation of eoldnees or burning in thefGUCU
and pharynz.- Dryneae in the throat, not extinguishable by drinking. - Rough·
neaa and scraping in the throat.
Inripitl 1alit1tJ in the mouth.- Gall-like, bitter tate in ·the moutla...- Herby,
putrid tate in tlse mouth. - Cooling or acricl tate in the mouth anl throat, 1~
35
Digitized by Coogle
410 Veratrum.
~nt.- Insatiable thir•tfor cold liquidl.- Appetite and longing (or food,
also in &~ intervale between the vomiting and evacuations. - Great hunger and
voracity.- Bulimia. - Constant Jelire for cwidl or cooling food (fruits).- A:vel'-
sion to warm food.":':" After the lea1t bit, immediately vomiting and' diarr'"-.-
During meals, nausea with hunger and pressure in the stomach.
Eructation with the wte of what has been eaten. - Violent, vacant eructa-
tion, aleo after meals. - Sour or bitter eructation. - Much and vehement
hickupping.
Vialer&t nauea tDitA inclination to vomit, frequently a1 lo caue .ynrope, 1n01tly
·attended tDith great thirtt. -Frequent or constant nausea.-:- Water-brash.-
Vehement vomiting, With conttant nautea, great relazation and nece11ity to lie
doum, preceded by coldness ofthe hands and shuddering of the whole body, during
the paroxysn:1 general heat, and after it agitation of the blood and hot hand& -
Vomiting oftDhat hal been eaten.-Sour or bitter vomits.- Vomiting offroth and
white or yellowish-green mUCUI. - Nocturnal vomiting of mucus.- Vomiting of
black bile and blood.- Constant vomiting tDith diarrh«a and pressure in the pit
of the stomach.
Pain in the stomach with strong hunger and thirst. - Great tenderne11 of the
region ofthe 1tomach and 1crobiculut. - Emptiness and wambling in the stomach.
-Spasm in the stomach...:. Preuure in the pit ofthe 1tomach, extending into the
sternum, the hypoohondres and hypogastrium.- Burning in the pit ofthe ltom-
ach. - Gastritis.- Scirrhous affection ofthe stomach.
Abdominal pains in the region ofthe navel-- Great painjulne11 ofthe abdomen
teheft touclted. - Pains in the abdomen after a cold and after misuee of cinchona.
- Nocturnal pains in the abdomen, with sleeple@l!ness. -. Swelling of the ab-
domen. -Tension in the hypoohoodres and.region of the navel- Colic-like
tptmn~ in the abdomen. - Drawing pressing pains in the abdomen, in the even-
ing when walking. - Ctuting i.n the abdomen, a1 if teith a knife, with diarrhcea,
or with thirst and fiow of urine.- Burning in the whole abdomen, as. from glow-
ing eoal& - General soreness of the abdominal viscera. - Enteritis. - Inguinal
hernia. - Flatulent colic, with loud rolling and rumbling in the abdomen. - Flat·
ulency is discharged, the later the more difficult. -Violent discharge of flatulency
upwards and downward&
Conttipation, also long continued, or in children, as if from inactivity ofthe
rectum, frequently attended with beat and headache.- Costivene11.- Hard and
too thick ehaJttld stool.-Violent purging 1tooll, and pai,if'ul looaene" ofthe boweu,
frequently with a distended,abdomen or preceded and succeeded by cutting in t~e
bowel& - Acrid diarrh<~~a with burning in the anus. -: Nocturnal diarrhres. -
Bloody diarrhrea. - Unperceived dilcharge .of thin stool with the flatulency.-
Blackilh diarrhll!a;- During evacuation, great languor, chills with shuddering,
paleneee of countenance, cold perspiration on the forehead and anxiety with fear
ofapoplexy.- Burning in the anus with the s~L- Rasping pain in the anus.-
Pressure in the anus, with blind piles.-Worm-eomplflints.
Retention of urine. - Ineffectual urgency to urinate, while the bladder is
empty, with apain, a8 if the urethra were constricted behind the glans.- Dimin-
ished yellow urine, which is turbid even when discharged. - Flow ofurine, with
ll&rong thirat and hunger, headache, naueea and inclination to vomit, pains in the
Digitized by Coogle
Veratrum.
abdomen, eoetiveness and coryza.- Involuntary urinal dilclulrge. - Acrid urioe.
- Dark urine.- Pretllling pain in the bladder and burnitag 10/&en uri1Uiting.
Exceasive senaitiveneee of the genitals.- Soreneee of the pneputium. - Draw-
ing in the testicles.
Catamenia too early·arul profme.- Suppreued men.truation. - Before men-
struation, headache, giddine,, epiataxia and night-sweats.- During menstruation,
headache in the morning with inclination to vomit, buzzing in the ears, great
thirst and pain in all the limbs. - At the close of the catamenia, gnashing with
the teeth and blueish countenance.- Suppressed lochia with delirium.- Puer-
peral fever.- Nymphomania of lying-in women.
Unpleuant le!U6tion fifdrgne,. in the no1e. - Frequent vehement sneezing. -
Coryza. .
Catarrhal affection of the chest, with roughneee and scraping in the throat.-
Bronchial inflammation&.
CouglafrtYIII ticklileg in the bronchial either dry or with an easy expectoration.
-Vehement cough with coiUI&ant nauseous eructation.- Cuugla in the eDe~ting,
with aalivation.- Hot, dry cough, fll06tlg at night and in the morning.- Cougl
toith pain in the ftde, weakn81!111 and dyspnam. - Deep, lwllmD CONgh, 88 from the
abdomen, with euUing abdominal pain&.- When coughing, outward 11titebes in
the inguinal ring.-Pt~rozymu fd'hooping-cough.-Cough with copious expec&oo
ration.
hequent ohllnlction fif the breatla, .o M to catUe almott m.ffocation, chiefly
produced by a cOMtricting ~ensation in the larynx or chest. - Short breath with
the leut motion.- Tightftl!ss of tlae che1t and difficult breathing, even when sit-
ting.- Oppruaion oftlae claut, with pain in the side when breathing.
Prunre in the chert, claUflg the region ofthe 1ternum, particularly after eating
and drinking. - Sell88tion of fulness in the chest, with conatant necel!llity to
eructate.-Squeezing in the chest, chiefly after drinking.- Painfolly conrtringing
~ in the chert. - Spasmodic contraction of the pectol'lll mUllcles. - Cutting
pain in the chest. - Accidental stinging in the chest, with obstruction of the
breath.- &rong palpitation of the heart, prelling fOMDtJrd the ribl, with ob-
struction of the breath and attackl ofanguilla about the prll.lCOf'dia.
Painr in tlae lHack and IIIC1'al region, a• if beaten, drawing prefllliDg, chiefly
when stooping and rilling up. - Rheumatic llliftheN in·the nape, with giddineee
when moving it.-Diabling weaknell8 of the ce"ical muscles, which 8CU'Cely can
8Upport the head. ·
»Uabling dulneu oftlae armr, from the moulder-joint to the wrist.-Jerb in
the arms.-Coldness or seWIBtion offulness and swelling on the arma.-Colllltant
seiUIBtion o( numbness in the artn&-Tremor of the arm, when taking hold of
aometbing.- Jerks in the elbow, like electric shoekll.-Dry herpes on the band.
-Tingling in the hands and fingers.-NumbnM& and deadneas of the fin«era.
Lameness in the joint of the hip, with difficulty to walk.- DUGbling flHlne11
of the leg•.- Arthritic rending and drawing in the lege and feet.- Constant ~~en­
.uion of numbness in the lega.-TeiiRon in the tendo011 of the knee-hoDow,-88 if
too 11hort.- Pain 88 if beaten in the knees, whtm descending stepe.-Concuaaion
in tlte knees, like electric lhocb.-Great painful heavme. in the kneee, lep and
Digitized by Coogle
412 Veratrum.- Verbascum.
feet, with awkwardn._ in walking.- Sudden swelling of the feet. -Tremor or
the feet, with coldnees, 88 ifcold water were running in the veins.- Stinging in
the (big) toe1.-Painful podagra.-Stitches and ~~ensation ofsoreness in the corns.
t 94. Verbascum.
Sluggishness and drowsiness, in. the morning, after rilliug up.- StretcAing of
the limb• and frequent gaping.- IJoumiiHJrth moiling, sometimes stinging rending
in difterent parts.-Tottering gait.
Great 1leepine111 after meaZ,.-Restless sleep at night, with jactitation.-Short
t~leep at night, only till 4 o'clock in the morning, with anxious frightening dreams
of war and corpses.
Coldnen in the tDhole body, also externally on the bands and feet pereeptible.-
Shuddering, chiefty on one side ofthe body, 88 if cold water were poured over it.
· Indifference. - Peevisbne~~~, moroeenese and fretfulness. - Merriment with
lauAiUD«.-Exeited fanuisy with wanton imaginations.
Weakne111 ofmemory. - Mental disaipation.- Aggregatiou ofmany thoughts
and fantasies.
Duln._ and dizziness in the bead.- AUIJCk• ofI(Udinul, as iffrom a pret!I8Ule
in the head, or when pressing one cheek.
Headache, 88 if all wouJd fiill out from the forehead.- Stupefying, prelling
headocl.e, chf4ly in the forehead, or one side, and particularly 'when entering from
a warm into a cold temperature.- DuJI painful heaviness in the head. -Graspin~
pain in the temples.-Stupefying stinging in the temples.-Vibration in the head,
when walking.
Pain in the eyes, 88 from a contraction ofthe soekets, with beat in the eyes.-
(Misty dimsigbtedness.)
Rending otalgia, also during meals, attended with stinging.- A l!f'D88t~n 88
if the ear were being drawn inwards.-Dy•ecoia, 88 ifsomething were put before
the ear.-Seneation ofobstruction in the eara, ':'ben reading aloud.
Nenxnu pro.opalgia, mo1tly ltupefying, preuing or tightening, and chiefly i•
the sygom.tic bonu, and proceding from the mazillary joint•, increased by exter-
nal pressure and by pressing the teeth together.- Dull pressing stitches in the
zygomatic bone; - Strong teruiion in the integuments of the chin .and the m8a-
seteres.
Rending tooth-ache, in the molaree.
CoUection of much ealtish aaliva in the mouth.- The tongue brown-yellow,
~~overed with vilcid phlegm, in the morning and after meals.
Inaipid taste, with an oftenaive odour from the mouth.- Hunger without appe-
tite, no food relisbet.- Insatiable thirst.
Rising up of a taatel._ ftuid. - Bitter, nauseous or empty en~etotion. - Fre-
quent hiokupping.
Pressure in the stomach. - sensation of emptiness in the pit of the stomach.
"Digitized by Coogle
Verbascum. -Vinca. - Vinum. 413
which diappear after rumbling.-Much rumbling ftatulency under the left ribs.-
Cutting and ~~tinging pain in the left hypochondrium.
Dia&en&ioa of the abdomen. - Painful, lwrd prenure em the navel, ,. iffrom a
•toRe, relieved by bending forward&.- Spaamodie eollll&riction of the abdomen in
the nmbilieal region. - Pains deep in the abdomen, with urgency to stool and
spasmodic eontraetion of the anti& - Griping and cutting in the abdomen. -
8tingift8 in tlae abdomefl, chiefty the umbilical resion, 80Dletimes downwards
rending.- Sensation, as ifthe bowels were grown filet in the umbilieal region and
being torn ouL · ·
Intermittent stooL- Ha~ stool, like aheep'e-dung, evacuated with prelllling.
Frequent urgency to urinate, with a copioo8 d;.cJuwge.- 8tminal emieeione.
Sensation ofobstruction in the nose and lerynx, with hfHirlle1lel8, when reading
aloud. - C«ta"h, tDith h!Hirllef&el8 and qffectitm ofthe che1t.
'Cougl, cl&iejly in the e~~ening anJ at night, in ·~· m01tly rough find dry, or
ltolloto tml deep·IOUnding.
lltingi"'I ita the chelt, sometimes with oppreaeion and obstruction of the breath.
-Tension acrose the chest, with stinging in the region of the heart, in the even·
ing after lying down.
Stitches in the back and shoulder-blades.- A red node near the thyroid car·
tilage, painful whton preeeed upon.
Rending in the shoulder, in the back of the band and downwards in. the elbow.
- Spasmodic preeeure in the fore-arm, the band and thumb. - Rending 1tingift8
in the ltand end finger~. - Tightening pain in the wrist.- Spraining pain in the
wrieL - Disabling pain in the joints of the fingel'll.
Great heaviness and weariness in the lege and feet; chiefly when aecending
steps.- Spasmodic preeeure in the thigba, lege and soles of the feet.- Tremor of
the knees.- Dull stitches in the patella, the tar8al bones and toes.- Downwards·
rending in the legs.
f 95. Vinca.
PlictJ polonica.
f 96. Vinum.
v;.•.
Antidote•: carbon. acidum, coffea toeta, hydmcyan. aeidum, nux vomica.
(]•ed ,. an antidote for aconitum, amanita, auru1n, belladonna, carbon. acidum,
graphitee, lachesis, lactuca vii'OI!II, nux vom., phosphorus, (ranuuculua seeleratus.)
It an~U~erl weU after cinchona, aulphuretum calcia.
It cau.e1 an exacerbation after arniea, lachesis, eelenium, aodm boraa, zincum.
.. o:T Its effect ill moat benellcial after the to. of blood, and other eau& of
debility; in C88e8 of the 10 named nervoua weakoees, oecaaioned by the
•
Digitized by Coogle
414 Vinum. - Viola odorata.
misWie·or exee.ive quantity of medicinee. It llhould however only be
administered by a drop at a time, and that quantity, but a very few timee
in a day. It bu aleo the t-t effeet on females on whom wine, 1Uied by
the glus, produeee uncomfortable eeusatione. In the fint CBIJl", (that ie in
1oM ofblood &e.) red wine i.e preferable, in ~ eeeond, fragrant Rhenilb,
and in the third, (on femalee) Spanish wine, but eaeh of theee llhould be
unadulterated with epirita, or with any thing ellle. C. H-tf.
t 97. Viola odorata.
General relaxation of the mueelea. - Drawing paine in the limbs. - Pain aa if
beaten in all the joints, in the momiDg when awaking.-Tremor of the limbii.-
Transient burning on different plaeee.-The complaint& are mild, though dietincdy
perceptible remaining the I8IDe in any position. - HypoclumdriM: tmtl l&y.teric
N>mplaintl.
Gaping, every morning, with watery eyt>&-Supine poeitioJl in tileep at night,
the left hand under the head and the knees bent.
Feverish shivering.- Night~eweata.
Pensiven8118 and lladne1111.- Hy.teric AutfiOf' Vlitl COIIIIGnt weeping, without
knowing why. - Dillincli~tion to talk.
Great wecbeu of memory, and forgetfulnft!ll. - Great aggregation of tm·
1teady, cortfmetl idea1. - Distinguished acutenetlll and aetivity ofmind.- The in-
tellect predominating 011er lerutJtion and dilpolition. '
Dull painful vacuity in the head.- Vertigo, also in sitting.
Headache with spumodic affection of the eyes, and a fie? eemicircle befOre
the eyee. - Heavin818 of the head, with sensation of weakneell in the cervical
muacles.- Congestion of blood to the head, with a pricking seJ188tioo in the llin-
ciput.- Ten.rion in the 1calp, extending to the face, noee aDd ean, frequendy
with knitting ofthe brows. - Heat in the forehead
Spasm in the eye-lids.- Contraction ofthe lids, as from a RJ188tion efsleep in
the eyes and lids. - A sensation as if the eye-ball were compreseed.-Heat and
burning in the eyes.-Myopia.-Fiery appearances before the eyN.
Stinging in the ear1. -Aversion to every kind of music, partieularly the-
violin.- RUBbing and tingling in the ears.
The point ofthe noee seneeleea, aa ifafter a blow upon it.
Pret~~~ing drawing pain in the zygomatic bones. - Tenlion in the ,.nn of the
face, chiefly under the eyes.- Rending in the lower maxilla, towards the ear.
Rending pain in the lower teeth.
Con~~tipation with ineffectu,.I urgency to evacuate.
Seminal emilsione, su~eeded by headache.
Respiration difficult and ecarcely percept~le, with a painful expirini, great
anxiety and a&rong palpitation of the heart.- Short breath. - Violtnt oppreuion
o,gitized by Google
Viola odorata. -Viola tricolor. 41!)
mad tigltne.,'oftlae che1t, with pre88ure on it, ae from a weight.-Teneion in the
muecles of the neck. · .
Drawing pain in the joint of the elbow and back ofthe hand.- Preasiug pain
in the wrist.
t 98. Viola tricolor.
Genel'lll relaxation ofthe body, also a sensntion as if unrefreahed ,after sleep.-
Stinging pains in the limbs. '
Miliary eruption all over the body, with stinging fretting sensation.
Sleepiness in the afternoon. - Restless sleep with frequent awaking.- Late
Bleep, from many thoughts, with difficulty to rouse from sleep in the moming.-
Animated and amorou1 dream•. - Jerking with the hands and elinching the
thumbs in sleep, with rednet!8 ofthe countenance and general dry heat.
Chilliness and shivering in the open air.- Night-sweats.
Sadnet!8 about domestic affairs.- Hastiness, as from inward nnxiety, with a
sensation of great weakne88.-Lamenting, bad, moro•e humor, with disinclination
to talk.- Great sensitivene88 and quarrelaomene88.-Diaobedience.-Avei'Sion to
labor.
Vacuity and dizziness ofthe bead.- Giddine88 and reeling when walking.
H~ache from the root of the noee, extending into the brain, disappearing in
the open air.- Heavine88 of the head, drawing backwards, chiefly when rising,
relieved by stooping.- Pre11ing 1aeodGclie, chiefly in the forehead and temples. -
Stinging in the occiput, day and night.-Shaking ofthe brain, when walking.
Pain in the eye, as ifsomething hard were between the upper-lid and the eye.
-Contraction ofthe liU, with eleepine~~~~.- (Myopia.)
Heat in the face, also on one aide, in the evening iQ bed, in that cheek, which
is eApoeed to the air. - Condensed , hard akin·in t~e face. - OrtuttJ ltM:tea, with
a buming itching, chiefly at night, and secretion ofa viaeoua yellow pue from it.-
Teruion in the integument• oftheface andforehetld.
Pain in the throat, in the evening.- White muooue tongue, with a bitter
taste.- Much phlegm in the ~uth, and a eenaation ofdryne&
Anorexia, food does not reliah.- After meals, general heat, chiefly (with per·
spiration) in the mce, oppreeaion of the chest and great, agitating anxiety.
Naueea and vomiturition.
Cutting abdominal paitu, which make one cry and halloo, with urgency to
stool, and eopiou8 discharge of flatulency and ofgreat pieces ofmucue.-Stinging
in the abdomen. - Pl'e88ing stinging in the diaphragm. •
Evacaation with mucus and much flatulency. - &ft 1tooll, aa ifcurdled. -
Hard stool- Sudden calla to evacuate.
Urgency to urinate, untla a copimu dilcharge.-Stnmguria.- Ardor UriiUI!. -
O.ffemitJe urine, like that ofcats.-Turbid urine.- Stitches in the urethra.
Stitches in the penis and a forward prei.rure in the glans.- Itching and swel-
ling ofthe pl'lllputium.-Erectiona.- Seminal emiaaiona.
Leucorrha!B.
Digitized by Coogle
416 Viola tricolor. - Zincum.
Stitches in the chest. - Oppression and stitches in the region of the heart,
when bending forwards in silting.- Anxiety about the heart, in 1\ supine position,
witll palpitation ofthe heart.
Spumodic pain and griping contraetion between the ahoulder-blad~- Swel-
-ling ofthe glands of the throat.
Stitches in the joints ofthe l!houldel'St the elbows, fore-arms and fingers.
Senaation as if beaten in the thighs, in the morning whim awaking. -The
knees knickling in walking, wiU. drawing in the calves and thighs. - TwitQhing
of,the mUBCles in the calves.- Stinging in the patelln's, ahin-'bones and feet.
~
i gg. Zincum.
Ziltc. - -GerRt. Zittll.
Antidote•: camphors, ignatia, t~ulphuretum calcia.
U1ed a• an antidote for barytre carbonaa. ·
After it amwer• well: aulphuretum calcis.
J\fler it catUe an aggravatwn: chamomilla, nux vomica, vinum.
Predominant effect•: Stinging rending in the limbs, increued after overl&eating
one~elf or after bodily e3:ertion.- Drawing rending in the centre ofthe,bonet~, ao
that the limbs become infirm from pain. - Sore paim. - Spa81Jl0dic pain and
spasm in the limbs. - Visible quivering or twitching on different parte of the
mUBCles.- Formication in the limba.-Pttlay, also on one aide, and after apoplexy.
-Varices.- The pnina sometimes seem to be seated between the akin and fieab.
-Cbamomilla, nux vomica and wine exeesl!ively inoreue the complaint•, or excite
them, chiefly the restlessness at night and constipation.- J\fler meah and toward•
evening the mMt complaintl appear. .
General insensibility ofthe body.-Senaation ofcoldness in tjle bollfli.-Strong
throbbing through the whole body. - Tremor ofthe w4ole body, chiefly also after
every mentsl excitement.- Great weakneu, heavineu and wearineu, chiefly when
walking and in the 11101'Ring 1t1hen awaking.-Aversion to exercise.
Itching in the bends ofthe joints.-Vehemently stinging itching, chtefly in the
evening in bed, disappearing immediately from the touch. - Formication between
the skin and flesh.- Chronic eruptions.- Herpe• and herpetic ulcer•.- Ganglia.
-Chilblains and liability of the exteriQr parts, ~ be injured by coldness.- Rba·
-A'~Uiee.- Small furuncles.
Sleepineu in the day, and comtant inclination to Bleep, chiefly in the fftOnlinK
or at'ter, meals, with dilpoBitUin to g~. - Late sleep._;, Reatlees sl~p with fre-
quent awaking. - UnrefreBhing Bleep. - Disgusting, frightening, or reetlei!S
dreaJD8, full ofreverie•, with talking and shrieking in sleep.- Excessive eoldnese
of the feet at night.- Jerks of the body in sleep, and frequent startling.
Feverish shivering along the back. - Constant chilliness with increased inter-
nal warmth.- Feverilh Bhivering with flushes of heat, wehement tremor of the
limb•, short, hot breath, and pulsation through the whole body. - Diapoeition to .
perspire in the day-time.- Perspiration at night.
DigitizedbyGoogle .
Zincum. • 411
Hypochondriae humor.- Reflections about death, as ifthe end were apprOilCh·
ing.-PeeviM, 71IOf'OM humor, Vlith diftnclintJtion to talk, chil>jly in the evening.- ·
Great l!lensitivene88 to noise and the oonvel'88tion ofothers.- Fretfulnet!8 and im-
patience.- Dilporition to violence, which affects the nervftl very much.- DUin-
clintJtion to labor.- Cllmtgeable humor, mostly I!Bd at nOOil and joyful in the
evening, or opt'I08ite.
Weakne~~~~ of memory.- Forgetfuln-.- Thougtlet!8neSS:- Difficult comprt~­
hension.- Incoherent ideas.
Constant cloudineM and dizzineM of the head. - GiJdine11 deep in the brain,
chiejly the occiput, with a danger of fillling to the left side. - Giddinl!88, as if the
seat \Vaved, in the morning, when sitting up in bed.- Stupefying giddinet!8, sco-
tomia and general weaknef!B.
Headache, at night, or in the evening after lying down.- Headache after the
use of wine. - Paroxy8Dl8 of arthritic headache, with naUBea and vomiting. -
Pre16ing headache, chiefly in the morning, and particularly in tbeforehefld, with-
dizzi.ness; also headache in the temples and occiput.- Compressing or disl!levering
pains in the head.-Drarmng in the occiput and forehead.-Stinging and rending
in the head, chiefly the ftde• ofit, the temples, the forehead and occiput, increaed
tJjter dinner.- Sensation ofsorene. in the head. - Throbbing headache.- Buz-
zing in the head.- The headache is relil!ved in the open air, increased in a room.
Itching, Bensation of sorena., or ulcerous pain, e:rterntJlly on the tctJlp.- A
sell88tion as if the hair 8tood up.- Baldness.
Pain in the eyes, in the evening, after lymg down, or after th!l use of wine.-
PreMUre ~m tAe. eyu, or a sell88tion u if they were pret!8ed into the head.-Pre&.
sing·and stinging rending in the eyes.- Itching, biting, and a temtJtion nf10f'f1·
ne•• in the eyu, lids ancJ internal canthi. - Burning and inflammation of the eyes
and lids.- Redne. and inflammation of the internal canthi, with suppuration.-
Dryn1!88 of the eyes.- Prwalylil and fulling down nf the upper-lids. - Contracted
pupils.-Amaurosis.- Fiery flakes before the eyes, when looking upwards.
OttJlgitJ with rending •titchu and external swelling, chiefly in children. - Of-
. fensive purulent discharge from the ears. - Buzzing in the ears.
The interior of the ROle aching a if81Jre.-Violent pressure on the root of the
nOBe, with a squeezing pain. - Internal and external ~Welling ofthe no•e, also of
one side, with anosrnis.
Pale earth-colored countemu\ce.-Sloomy, distempered appearance.-Rending
and IOf'f1 pain in theftJCitJl bonu.
The li]lll and angles of the mouth cracked, and internally ulcemted.-A thick
'Viscid moistne. on the Jipe. - Redne. and itching emption on the chin.
Tooth-ache, when ID88ticating.-Drawing or stinging rending tooth-ache, ehiej:.
ly in the molares. - The teeth acAing a if•ore. - Loosene. of ilie teeth.- Ex-
cftlsive bleeding of the teeth and gums.-White, swollen, sore guiiUI.- Ulcera on
the gums.
Small, yellow aphtlue, on the internal IUJ'fuce of the ahfleks.- Prickling on
the internal surface of the cheek and copiow •Bli11ation ofa metallic taste.- Ve-
llielea on the tongue.
Drawing rending behind in the pharynx, more without deglutition, than with
Digitized by Google
418 Zincum.
it.- A eenation ofeollltriction and 8ptl8m in the tUop/wgu, in the region of the
throat-pit.- Dryne88 and rougbneM in the fauces and throat, with biting and
eeraping.- ~ of.wme••in tle t/arotlt.- M~~eh pikgm in t~ throat.
Tute in the ·mouth like u from blood.- &ltilh tG~te in the mouth.- Much
thin&.- Diminisllal appetite. - 8trong hunger and great, inNtiGble kmgi1tg for-
fciod.-Averaion to meat (veal), sweet-meats, fish and cooked weno food.-After
bread, preseure in the stomach with naueeft.-At\er meals, hypochondriac humor,
with preeeure under the ehort ribe, dizzineea, griping in tbe abdomen, fulneee and
preseure or burning in the stomach.
Eructntion with a pressing pain in the cheat. - .W.Ur eruetGtion after meaJs,
chiefly after the we ofmilk.- Heart-bum after ftleet-tMati.-Hiekupping, partic-
ularly at\er breakfast.
Natlflf'a, with choking and vomiting of a bitter mucus, renewed by the leut
motion.- Hlllmatemesis.
Preseure in the stomach.- Unpleasant eenaation on the cardia and upwards
in the Ol80phagus.- Squeezing and.preseing in the pit of the stomach.- Rending
and stinging in the pit of the stomach. - Burning in the 1tomach.
·Bpamwdic kind ofpain in the hypoclwndre•, altemating with oppftli!Bion of the
ebeet.- Hard preuure in the hypochondre,. and sides of the abdomen, increased by
motion and walking.-Squeezing, preMUre and stinging in the hepatic region.-
&inging in the region of the 'Plem;- Preseure, •tinging au lenlation ofIOI'e-
aeu in the regitm ofthe kidney•.
Pain in the Rbdomen, in the evening, at\er going to bed. - Hard preuure tml
temion in the abrlomen (and ita sides) with distention ofit.- Uneomfurtable pres-
sing eenation on the interior walls of the trunk, u if proceding from the nerves,
' without flatulency.- Spasmodic pain about the navel- Pinching and cutting in
the abdomen, with diarrho!a. - Rending and stinging in the abdomen.~ Much
datulency, with rumbling and rolling in the abdomen, cbietly at\er meals.-.FIGttla
lent ~ic, particularly in the evening.- Copious discharge of hot, offeJHiive
flatulency.- Ingui1U.Il hernia. .
Conltipation.- Hard, dry, insufficient stool, frequently with much pre88Ure.-
Soft, paJ18f!Cent, or liquid purging 1tooh, frequently attended with a discharge of
bright-red blood.-Involuntary evacuation.-During and at\er evacuation abdomi-
nal pains. - Rending, stinging, burning .emation of 10reneu au vehement itch-
ing in the anus.- Creeping in the tmtU, like worms.- Retention of urine, when
commencing to urinate.-The urine vehemently preMing forwards in the bladder.
-Painful micturition.- Involuntary urinal dilcharge, tahen taalking, eougbing
and s~eezing. - Frequent discharge ofa light-yellow urine, which afterwards de-
positea a white flocky sediment. - The urine, when standing for a while, geta
turbid, like clay-water.- Calculi in the kidney• mul bladder.- Bloody urine.-
Buruing with and at\er micturition.-Cutting in the orijce ofthe urethra.- Blool
dilcharged from the urethra.
The testicles attructed, swoUen .and painful.- Drawing in the testicles towards
the 11permatic cord.- Semation of10rene11 on the lcrotum.-The scrotum shrivel-
led together, and shivering on it. - Great inclination to eohabit, with the •emilwl
tlilcharge either difficult, or too quick. - Continued erections at night.- Prostatic
fluid escaping.
Digitized by Coogle
Zincum. - Zingiber. 419
The genitals e:rcu1ively tender.- Preseure towards the genitals.- Nympho-
mania oflying-in women. -Impolition 'to Gbortion, with varices on the pudenda:.
-Suppressed lochia.-Catamenia too early or mppre11ed.-Menetruatio.; too late.
. -During menstruation, distention of the abdomen, cutting and urgency ~ the
abdomen and small ofthe back, and great heavinees and weaknees in the lege.-
Thick mucous leucorrhtM, also preceded bY' abdominal paine.
bbstruction ofthe n011e..:_ Dejlu:rionfrom the 1101e, with hoarseness and burn-
ing in the chest.
Roughne11 and dryne11 in the throat and chest, cbiefty in the morning and af-
ter meals.-Black blood is hawked out.
Dry cough, also at night, with stinging in the chest nnd a pain, as ifit would
burst. - Cough, wit~ expectoration ofa viscid phlegm, and succeeded by a sensa-
tion of coldnees and roughness in the chest. - HtnTWptym, with burning and a
sensation ofeorenesa in the chest.
Presling tightne11 of the chest and oppression of the breath , chiefly in the
evening.- Spamaod¥: tightne11 of the chest. -Short breath, from flatulency, after
meals.- The chest mrcharged with phlegm.
Presmre in the chest. - .Tightening pain in the sternum.- Rending in the
. breast.- Stinging in the breast, chiefly the region ofthe heart. - Burning ofthe
chest.-Palpitation ofthe heart, with and without anxiety.- Irregular motion of
the heart.-Soreness in the nipples.- Agalactia in lying-in women.
Pains in tlte 'small oj the back, when walking and sitting down.- Disabling
sensation of weakness in the back and sacral region.- Rheumatic pains in the
lle~ck. - Itching herpes on the back.-Tension and stinging in and between the
shoulder-blades.-Stinging rending, sti1fnees and straining in the neck and throat.
Rheumatic drawing and stinging rending in the slwulders, a?m., elbo111s, wrists,
·hands and fingers. - Painful disability of the arm.- Furuncles on the upper-arm.
- Deadne11 and lamene11 of the hands. - Weakness and iremor of the hands,
when writing.- Dry cracked skin of ~he hands.- Rhagades between the fingers.
-Numbness of the fingers, in the morning, when rising.
Rheumatic drawing and rending in.the legs, knees, joints ofthe feet and feet.
-Varices on the thighs and legs. - Tightening pain in the knees. - Nocturnal
pains in the knees.- A sensation as ifthe blood stopped, in the lege.- Drawing,
and straining sti1fnees in the calves when walking. -Formication in 'the calves.-
Erysipelatous inflammation and swelling of the tendo Acbillis. - Stifthess of the
joint of the foot, after sitting.- Wrencbing pain in the joints of the feet and toes.
-Burning in the feet.- Inflammatory swelling of the feet.- Weakness and
tremor of the feet. - Lameness of the feet. - Painful chilblains on the feet.-
Itching, heat, redness and swelling of the toes, as if frost-bitten.- Pulsating
stitches in the toes.
200. Zingiber.
Zi•fi&tr o(fici•ale. - Ginger. - Gena. l•r••r. -
Used tJI antidote for the asthma caused by caladium.
••
Digitized by Coogle
o;9,tiz"d byGoogle
-- · -~- - ::....::-
--~ -:~·- ----------
System~tic- alphabeticcil
lttptrtDf1J
TOTD
,
FOREGOING SYMPTOMS. ··
ae
Digitized by Coogle
Prtlimiftmy
Remarks on "the following Repertory.
The pancipal word in each article, agrees exactly with the Text, eo that
the difficulty in looking tOr VJ»plOell .and c~ them with the Text is
. . ..
materially obviated.
Thoee ll)'mptoms which are printed in Italics in the Text, are distingui.ehed
by the 881118 form of printing in tW. part also.
Iu varioWJ }I8IV of the Repertory, remedies are referred to, which it was
necetarJ ibt tlt eoaaplete..- fl a., worl, .to iaer.duoe, thqh _,o ll)'mptoma
belonging to them are there given; and on the other hand, the·several remedies
and symptoms, viz.: Actlea, Alkekengi and others, published by one Heine,
thongh they could not well be omitted in the Text, are left out of the Reper-
tory, not having been satirilctorily tried.
For an explanation of the abbreviations, referince must be made to the
annexed Table, and others which are used, for brevity's sake, will, by their
connexiori, be easily understood.
Digitized by Coogle
- ---~
A 'l'ABLII
showing the abbr-eviations used in the Repet·tory for the
full names of the remedies~
Acet.
Aeon.
Act.
Aetb.
~·
Alk.
AI.
Alum.
Aman.
Amb.
Amm.c.
Amm.m.
Anac.
Ang.
Ant. s.
Ant. tart.
Aquil.
Arg.
Am.
Are.
. Artem.
Arum.
Aaar.
Aaea.
Aur.
Bad.
Bar. e.
Bar.m.
Bell.
Berb.
Biam.
Bov.
Brom.
Bruc.
Bry.
Calad.
Calc. c.
Calc. ph08.
Calc. s.
Camph.
Cann.
Canth.
Caps.
Carb. a.
Carb. v.
Aeetum. Case. Cucarilla.
Aconitum. Cut. Cutoreum.
Aetrea. Caust. Causticum.
AethU88. Cham. Chamomilla.
Agnull. Cbel. ·Chelidonium.
Alcohol. Chen. Chenopodium.
Alkekengi. Chioc. Chiococca.
Aloe. Cic. Cieuta.
Alumina. Cinch. ·Cinchona.
Amanita. Cion. Clnnamomum.
Ambra. Citr. ae. Citricum aeidum.
Ammonire carbooM. Clem. Clematis.
Ammonire muriu. Coocin. • CoccineDa.
Auacardium. Cooc. Coeculus.
Angustura. Coff. Ceft'ea.
Antimonii sulphu~ Coff. toet.. Ceft'ea to8Ca.
tum. Colcb. .,·Colchicum.
Antim. & pota.e tar- Coloc. Celocynthis.
tras. Con. .Conium.
Aquilegia. ~ Ce 'ba.
Argentum. ' Cor. Co~.
Arnica. Croe. CNeus.
Arseniosum acidum. Cupr. Cnprum.
Artemisia 88Dtoniea. Cure. Curcu.
Arum. Cycl. C1f!lamen.
Asarum. Diet. Dictamnus.
A.8 fretida. Dig. ~talis.
Aurum. DrOe. DrOsera.
Dadiaga. Dulc. Dulcamara.
!Jarytre carbona& Ep. ~ira. ·
Barytre murias. Euph. Eilpborbium.
Belliuionna. Euphr. Euphruia.
Berberis. Evon. Eronymus.
Bilmuthi subnitru. Ferr. Ferrum.
Boviata. ~err• .ago. Ferri oxydum ~
Bromum. ticum.
Brucea. Fit. Fillx mae.
Bryonia. 1 raph. Gtaphites.
Caladium. Grai. Gratiola.
CaJcia carbona& ~ · Gajacum.
Calcis phosphas. HelL HeUeboru&
Calcia aulphuretum. Hydr. Hydrargyrum.
Camphora. Hydr. chl corr. Hydrargyri chloridum
Cannabis. coi'I'OIIIvum.
Cantharis. Hydr. sulph. rub. Hydrargyri sulph~
Capeicum. tum rubrum. ·
Carbo animalis. Hy011e. Hy011eyamus.
Carbo vegetabilis. . :JaL Jalapa.
Digitized bY Coogle
Jamb. Jamboe. Rhod. Rhododendron.
:r- m:tii laba. Rba. Rhus vernix.
tum. Rut. Ruta.
Ind. Indigo. Sabad. Sabadilla.
Joel. Jodium. Sabin. Sabina.
z:· ~uanha. Samb. Sambucus.
m. almia. b. eort. Sambuci cortex.
Kram. Krameria. Jt. Sapo.
Kreoa. Kreoeotum. Sua. Sa88aparilla.
Lach. Laeheeia. m. SeiJia.
Laei. Laetuea. See. Seeale eomutum.
LaD. Lamium. Sel. Selenium.
Laur. Lauroeel'll8ua. Sen. Senega.
Led. Ledum. Senu. Senna.
~cop. ~eopodium. Sep. Sepia.
gn. e. agnetlim earbonas. Ser. Serieum.
Mgn. m. M!tfnesim muria& Sil Silica.
Mgn. 8. 1\liignesile I!Uiphae. Sod. bor. Sodm boras.
Mang. Manganesiioxydum. Sod. e. Soft~e esrbonas.
Mar. Marum verum. Sod. nitr. Sod~e nitras.
Men. Menlrnthes. Sod. s. ' Sod~e sulphas.
Meph. Mep 'tis. Sod. chl Sodii ehloretum.
Mez. Mezereum. Sol.m. Solanum mamm"'""lll.
Millef. MiUefolium. Sol nig. Solanum nigrUJDo. ·
Moeclt. Moeehus. Spig. Spigelia. ·
Mur. ae. Muriatioum acidum. Spoog. Spongia tOIJta.
M)'l'. Myriatica. .Stann. Stannum.
NJCC. Niccolum. Staph. StapbiaaF
Njg. Nigella. Stram. Stramomum.
Nitr. ae. Nitri aeidum. Stroot. Strontian~e carbon-.
~.~eth. n. ~iritus~e.therisnitrici. Succ. Succinum.
uxv. UX VOMICa, Sulph•. Sulphur.
Oleuld. Oleander. Sulph. ac. Sulphuricum aeidum.
Ol Oleum animale aethe- 'l'ab. Tabacum. . 1
reum. Tan. Tanaeetum.
Onisc. Oniacus asellus. Tar. Taraxacum.
Op. Opium. Tart. ac. Tartaricum acidua. :
P1e0n. P1e0nia. Tereb. Terebinthinae olewD..·
Par. Paris. Thea. Thea.
Petr. Petroleum. Ther. Theridion.
Petl"'OI. Petroeelinum. Thuy. ThU).'R.
Phell Phellandrium. Tigl Tiglii oleum.
Phos. Phosphorus. Tong. Ten~o.
Phos. ac. Phosphori acidum. Tox. TOXIcodendron.
Plat. Platina. Urea. Una.
.. Plumb. Plumbum. Uva. Uvaursi.
Pot. c. Pot&Me carbona&. Val. Valeriana.
Pot. nitr. Pota881e nitras. Verat. VPratrum. "
Pot.jod. Pota881e jodidua. Verb. Verbascum. .' ..(
Prun. Prunus spinOI!Il. Vine. Vinca.
Psor. PBorinum. Vin. Vinum.
Pula. Pulsatilla. . I Viol. od. Viola odorata.
Ran. b. Ranunculus bulboeue. Viol trio. viota tricolor.
Ran. sc. Ranuncul sceleratus. Zinc. Zincum.
Rhm. Rheum. Zing. Zingiber.
o1gitized by Google
-· ----- - ----,...-- ~-
REPERTORY.
f. General and predominant effects.
•
From Acidt, di8orden, An. Sod. ehL .At-tl&ritieaodes(tophl), Agn. Aur. OGle. c.
In the .A,fternoon, exaeerba&ioo, Alum. Carl.. a. Cie. Dig. GrGph.IAd. Lye.
Anum. Amm. a. Alit. •· A..._ Herb. RAotl. &M.a. &.p4.
Camph. Calltla. Cl&el. Coff. Coleb. From AKeadi"§' an eminence, atreeted,
Con. DuJe. Grat. Joel. Laur. Lye. Aur. Bry. Stann. Zinc.
Mo.ck. Mur. ~~e. Nitr. t~e. Nux v. - a height, Cale. e.
Pboe. Plumb. &1•. Sen. Sod. c. - aepe, Aeon. Alum. Ang. Calc. e.
Spong. Staph. Stront. Thuy. Zinc. Carb. •· Kram. Nw: v. Plat. Plumb.
- every other afternoon, Lye. Stann. Sulph. Thuy. Toz.
Agitation ofthe blood, eee Blood. Atony, nervous, Cam_ph. Carb. v. Lsur.
When being Alotte, complaints, Are. Molcl. Nitr. ac. u,. Sulpb.
Lye. Phoe. - exee88ive, Bar. m.
AlterMtionofoppoei&eeompL, Dry. Oroo. Atroph" see Emaciation.
lgn. Mang. ~Plat. Pull. Sep. Salph. Attetllion to the -pain eanl!le8 reUef,
Tox. Camph.
- ofmental and bodilysymptom& Oroc. In autum11 exaeerb. eompl, Aur. Coleh.
Plat. Hydr. Tool:. Verllt.
F-rom AJf§'«r, eompl, Coloc. Pboe. Plat AwlnDordneu, Sabin.
8tapl. As if beaten, pains (Zenehlagenheits-
By Anziety, attended eompl., Art. Bell Sehmf'rzen), Aeon. Arg. Ant. tart.
Carb. v. Cham. Coff. kbod. &Hl. c. Am. Aur. Berb. Bry. Cale. e. Cie.
Tab. Verat. Cocc. Con. Nw: ., Oleand. Plat.
A'J)OfJlezy, Aeon. Anae. Aat. 8. Am. Ran. b. Rut. Sod. e. Sulph. Toz.
· &r. c. BeU. Co.ff. Con. Dig. Hyo«:. Verat.
/pee. Laur. Nuxv. Op. Plumb. Pull. - preeaing-, Sod. nitr. Verat.
· - from eon~n of the blood, Acora. - when touched,-Calc. •· Pula. Rut.
BeU. Cojf. Hydr. lpec. Nux v. Aa if beatm, &eiUIIltion in the limbs (u
- alternsting With epileptic dts, H)'4111C. ifbruised,sorenee), Aman. Ant. tart.
- gutrie, Dry. Ign. Ipee. Nux v. Arg. Am. AU1'. Dry. Car6. 11. Cor.
-nervous, Am. Bell. Co.ff. Hyo«. Croe.Dtot. Dule. GUIIj. Hydr. lpec.
Stram. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Mez. Nw: 11. Pboe.
- eerous, Am. Dig. Hydr. Ipee. Phoe. a. Rail. b. Rut. SiL Soli.e. Sod.
On tbe Arm the child will be carried, m. &d.1. Spig. Spong. Staph. Tart.
Cham. Ant. tart. ae. Val. Vm~t.
Araenic, poisoning with, Cinch. Ferr. -when ucending steps, Calc. e.
Graph: Jod. Ipec. (Nux v. Samb.) - in the evening, Amm.e. Bry. Phoe.
Varat. . R.e. 8iL
Arthriticcompl. and paiWJ, Aeon. Ant. a. ·- in the extensores, Brae.
Ant. tart. Arn. Art. llry. Cale. e. - in the lower estremitie~~, Berb.
, Calc. s. Cantb. Carb. tJ. Caul. ChliL - in the morniog, Olrb. 11. Moeeh. Nuz
Cie. Cinch. Coee. Colch. Con. Dig. ., Pbos. ae. Soa. e. ~ m. Viol. od.
Dule. Ferr. Graph. G11.aj. Hydr. ~ --in bed, MO!!Cb. Nw:11.
Led. LJe. Mang. Me~~. Nux v. Pboe. - - after riling, CeriA.,
Phot. tiC. PW.. .Ro.6. Rmt.tc; Rlwd. - when moving, AIIUin• Am. Ctoe.
&bin. StWI. Spig. Speag. StanL Staph.
S&aplr. Swlplt. Thug. Toz. - in the open air, Amm..e. Cor.
- Rfter a cold, Saa - ·whea at 1'81&, Aw. Con. Sod.m.
- after 10p~ pnorrhma, Sua. . - - reUeved,8tapb.
Digitized byGoogle
1. General and predominant effects.
Aa if bedten, sene. in the limbs.
- in sitting, after a ehort walk, Rut.
- when touched, ·Calc. •· Pull!. Rut.
- when uncovering, Aur.
In Betl, exacerbated eympt., Hydr. Led.
Plun. Pule. ' Stroot. Sulpb. Thuy.
(compare "when lying in bed".)
Beer, disorders from ita·uae, Al'!l. Aaea.
Bell Coloe. Euph. Ferr. Mez. Sep.
Stann. Sulph.
In the &ntl8 of the limbe, pain, A8lla.
Bilioau compl, Aeon. Ant. •· Ant. tarl.
Am. Ar•. Asar. Aua. Aur. Bell Dry.
Cham. c;nch. Cocc. Dig. Hydr. lgn.
Ipec.Mgn. m. Nuxv. Pule. See. &d.o.
Staph. Sulph. Tar. Tox. Verat.
Black, the body turning, Aeon. Sec.
Blootedneu, ~~erofuloua (body and filee),
(Are• .Asaa. Bar. c. Bell. Calc. c. Mez.
Sit.)
Blood, acrid, Amm. c. Pot. nitr. Sa&
- black, dark, Amm. c. Ant. a. Q-oc.
H,rdr. ehl eorr. Nitr. ac. Plat. Pot.
nur. ·
- clear, b~ht, Am. Bell. Dulc. Hydr.
Led. Sabm. Tox. Zinc.
- elotty, Bell. Cauat. Ferr. Plat. Pule.
SWam. Stroot.
- Cf>llglllated, Am. Bell. Hydr. chl. corr.
Nitr. ae. Pule. Sabin. Stram. To~.
- offensive, Bell
- pale, Bell. Graph.
- thick, Plat.
- viscid, Croc.
- warm, Dulc.
- watery, Ant. tart.
- agitation of the. Amb. Amm. m. Ant.
tart. Arn. Aur. Bell. Berb. Bov. Cak. c.
Carb. an. Carb. v. Con. Croc. Ferr.
Hydr. Jod. Lye. Nux v. Pelr. PM..
Phos. ac. Pot. c. Sen. &p. Sil. Sod. m.
Staph. Sulpa. Tab. Tkuy.
- - after using beer, Sulph.
--in the evening, Lye. Thuy.
- - - after lying down, Samb. ·
- - after small exertion, Hydr. Jod.
Sod.chl
- - after motion, Sod. m. Thuy.
- - in sitting relieved, Tbuy.
- - after vexation, Petr.
- - afu>r walking in the open air,
Amb. Petr.
- - after using wine, Sil · ·
- spitting, see Tit. 14 & 28. ·
- sensation of stoppage of the, Aeon.
Lye.
- from the 10111 of, conaequenc.-e~; Ciftch.
Plw6.ac. Sqlph.
Blood veneZ., distended, Cinch. Puis.
Sulpb. Thuy.
- aensation ofcoldneiB in them, Aeon.
- throbbing, see Pulsation.
ByblOvnngtheaoae,inel'l'IU!Iedpains,.Am.
By bodily e~ertion excited eompL, Amb.
Cocc. Croc. Hell. Hydr. Ljc. Phoe.
Sep. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. ehl &:llpk. Tos.
Verat.
- relieved, &p.
&mea, affectien.ofthe:
-caries, Ang. A••a. Aur. Calc. e.
Calc. 11. Cinch. (.,"upr. Euphorb. Hydr.
Kreos. Lye. Me:r. Nitr.ac. Pboe.ac.
Puis. Sep. Sil. Staph. Sulph. Tox.
- coldnell8, sensation of, Zinc.
- enlargement, Calc. c.
- Exostosis, bu. Aur. Calc. c. Dulc.
Guaj. Hydr. Lye. Met:. Plw6. PMJ..
oc. Sabin. Sil. Staph. SuiJ»b. Tox..
- fractures, Arn. Symph. qff.
- incunation, Amm. c.' A8lla. ('ale. c.
Calc. ph. Hydr. Jod. Phos.ac. Plumb.
PUZ.. Sil Staph. Sulpb.
- lool!ene~~ of the fteeb, aenaation of.
Dry. Nitr.ac. Sulph. Tox.
- malacoeteon (aoftneaa of the boneey
osteomalacia), A••a.
:..... from mercury misused, diaord., A•••·
Aur. Lye. Natr. ac.
- when inoving rapidly, reli~f, Sabad.
- Oetitia (inflammation), A••a. Aur.
Bell.~· 8. Cinch. Hydr.l:Jt.c. Mang.
Mez. Nur. oc.· Phoa. ac. Sil Staph.
Sulpll. .
- paine, in general (oatalgia), A-.
Bar.c. Carnpb. Cupr. Ep. Hf/dr. Lye.
MaRg. Mur. ac. Nitr. co. 'l»boe. ac.
Plumb. Rhod. Rut. Staph.
- - aa ifbeaten, BeU.Ipec. Rut.Verat.
- - boring, Asl!a. HeU.
--burning, Carb.v. Euph. Phoa.ac.
Rut. &bin.
- - in cool air increased, Hell.
- - cutting, Snbad.
- - disabling, Coec.
- - drawing, Arg. Dry. Oann. Cinch.
Cocc. Colch. Cycl. Rlod. Sabad.
Sabin. Tox. Val. Zinc.
- - after drinking, Hell
--when exerting the body, Hell
- - fretting, Rut. .
- - gnawing, Dros.
- - ~rubbing (wilblend), Ep. Mng.
- -Jerking, Cinch. Colch. Val.
- - afterpa!'Oxyemsofmadneaa, Cupr.
- - after meals, Hell.
- - nocturnal, Aur. Bar. e. Hy4r. Lye.
Ma~. Phoa. ac.
- - ~ndmg (tearing), Arg. Bell. Diem.
Caust. Cinch. Cocc. Cyel Phoe.ac.
Plumb. Stroot. Zinc.
- - - by shocks, Plumb.
- - scraping, A••a. Berb. PitH. IIC.
&bad. Spig. To.r. _
- - stinging, Colch. Drw. Hell. Sebiu.
Digitizedby <=;oogle.
- _..
f. General and predominant effects.
Bmaet, affection of the: 'To take cold, liability, Aeon. Anac.
- paine, tin~ling, Plumb. Bar. e. Bell. Calc. c. Calc.s. Camph.
- soreness m the wounds of bones, Carb. v. Cl?ff. Con..Dulc.Graph. Hydr.
Phoe.ae. Hydr.ehl.eorr. Lye. Mgn.m. Myrilt.
- syphilitic Jlllins, Asea. Hydr. Nitr. «. Nutc 11. Petr. Ph08. Plat.
- w&en touched, pain inereal!e(l, Sabad. Pot. car6. Sep. 8il. &d. c. Sod. ebL
- by warmth, relieved, Canst. Sulpla. ··
Boring (e!'lletrating) pains, AmaY;l. Hell. - after overheating, Pot. earb.
Mgn. Ran.ee. - when uncovering the feet, Sil.
- in the evt'!ning, Ran. ~~e. · After a cold, disord., Aeon. Bar. c. &U.
From eating bre4d, disord., Cauat. Phoe. Calc. e. Carb. v. Cham. Cinch. Coff.
Sass. Sod. chi. Coloc. Con. .Dulc. Graph. Hyosc.
Broken; pains as if, Cupr. lpec. Lye. Mang. Mymt. Nitr. tiC.
Brui&ing pain (as from a blow or con· Nux v. Phos. Puh. Sa11. Sit. Sod. c.
tusion), Arn. Berb. Cic. Cupr. Oleand. Sod.chi. Sulph.
Plat. Rut. (comp. as if beaten.) - by cold water (intemaJiy and exter·
- when touched, Rut. naUy), Ptth.
- when pfelll!ling on the spot affected, Cold in the stomach, AT8. Pula.
Plat. From cold water, dillord., Calc. e. Puis.
For Bru~~ettetJlllrticularly suitable, Aeon. 8pig. Sulph.
Anac. Nitr. ac. Pklt. From coltl air {temperature), .~tum.
Burning pains, Ar1. Berb. Carb. a. Amm. c. Aur. Bry. Calc. c. Oomph.
Corb. v. Eupl&orb. Me%. Ph08. Plumb. Carb. v. Caust. Hell. Hydr. Hyosc.
Sabin; &c. Sep. Viol. od. Mez. Mymt. Pho1. Rhod. &bod.
- by friction increaSed, Berb. &p. Tox. Verot.
- in interior parts, Ars. Berb. Canth. - relieved, Ant. Sulph. ·
Eupb. Mez. In the cold eeason, Aur. Colch. Carb. v.
- prickling, Pklt. Hydr. Petr. Sod. chi. Sulph. 7bz.
- stinging,Artem.Bar.c.Dig.Pklt.Pula. Verot.
- when touched, Sabin. From the change of coltl and warmth
Corphol4gio, (picking the bed clothes), eucerbation, Carb. v. Ran. b.
Ara. Jod. Op. Rhs. PhOfO. ae. Sulph. Coldnc11, sensation of, on isolated spots,
Tox. as from cold metal ordrops ofwater,
Cotolepty,Aeon. Bell. Cic. Motch. &rem. Berb.
- like sxncope, Verat. · Coldnu1, exacerbation·from it, Aman.
CIIIJmmnilkl, disorders from its abuse, Amm. c. Asar. Bar.e. Calc. e. Calc. s..
Aeon. Cocc. Cotr. Ign. Nuxv. Pule. Camph. Canth. Caps. Hydr. Myrilt.
Chilhi, attending the paroxysms of pain, Nitr. ac. Phos. Sabetd. Sep. Sulph.
Ars. Bry. Graph. Led. Lye. Me%, - relief, Thuy.
Pot. earb. Pul•. Sod. chi. Tox. \ Coldneu of the-body, attending the par·
During chilh, at night, increaSed paine, · oxysms of pain, Ar•. Bry.
C.ZC. •· - of the part affected, Hydr.
Chlorotil (chlorotic affections), Ars. In company, exacerbation, Bar. c. Lye.
Cinch. Cocc. Con. Ferr. Graph. Ign. Plumb.
. Lye. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Ph08. Plumb. ~onemsive pains, Cupr. Vol.
Pull. Sep. Sod. chi. Suiph. Conge1t~ of the blood, Aeon. Arn.
Cholera, asmtic, Ar•. Oomph. Corb. 11. Aur. Bell. Cham. Cinch. Hydr. Nwn.
Cupr.lpec. Phol. Pho1.11C. Sec. Verat. Pho1. Puis. Sod. ehl.
- sporadic, Ars. Ipee. Phos. Ph01. ac. Conltringing pains, Alum. Cocc. lgn.
See. Verat. , Pklt. Plumb. (eomp. spasms in in·
For choleric temperaments suitable, terior organs.)
Nuz 11. Phoe. Con~umption (wasting), Am. Ars. Bar. c.
Cinchona (quinine), disorders from its Calc. c. Calc. s. Cinch. Con. Cupr.
misuse (China..Sieehthum), Am. Ar•. Dulc. Graph. Guaj. Jod. Ipec. Kreos.
Artem. BeU. Calc. c. Cape. Carb. v. Laur. Lye. Myrist. Nitr. ac. Nwc w.
Ferr. Hydr.Ipec. Nuxv. Pull. Sep. Pb08.Pot.carb.See.Sep.SiL8od.ebL
Sod.ehi. ·Sulph. Verat. Stonn. Staph. Sulph.
Clucking sen88t. in the mueeles, Rhm. - in children, Bar. c. Calc. s. Cham.
Coffee, disord. excited or exacerbated by Cinch. (Lye. Mgn.) Nuz 11. (Petr.
it, Ars. Caust. Cham. Cocc. Hydr. Puis. Sulph.)
lgn. Nuz w. Sulph. From sexual continence, disord., Con.
- relieved, Coloe. Controcting Jlllins, Coloc.
Digitized by Coogle
1. General and predominant effects.
Contractiag pains, in injured parts, Am.
Contraction ofall the limbs, Caps. Coloc.
- of single parts, alternating with ez-
tenaion. Lye.
- ofthe &xores, Kram. &l.nigr.
Cont~&~ion, see mechanical injuries.
Convuhio1u, see clonic tpan118. ·
Crookedne11, of the limbs, Coloc. GU&J.
Plumb. Sec. Stram.
C.W.Wue appearing pains, Aman. Maug.
Cutting pains, Amb. Aog. Arg. Hy~H~C.
Mur.ae.
- rending, Hy011e.
- when at rest, Mur.ae.
Cy1tic tumors, Calc. c. Calc. & Grqh.
' SiL Sulph.
From damp weather, dillord., Amm. e.
Calc. c. Carb. v. Dole. Lye. Mang.
Myrist. R/&od. Sep. Sod. IHw. TO.J:.
Verat.
De.i.flal (eoldoees, torpor andbecoming
white) of the limbs, Ant. tart. a.lc. c.
CaWit. Chel. Cic. Con. Lye. Nux v.
PhOL Sec. Thug. Zinc.
- gangrenous, Sec.
- ee081ltion of, see torpor.
From ckbauehu, dillord., Ipec.
Decurt41lion of the tnuUiu (muecles),
see muscle&
- eenation of, 11ee mU8Cles, tightnei!L
Delirium, caueed by the .paroxy81D8 of
pain, Verat.
Duiiog dentition, eompl, Artem. Bell.
Calc. c. Cham. Ign. Nuz v. Rhm.
Stann. Sulpb.
Du:pair, accompanying the pains, Aeon.
Ars. Carb. v. CJu.m. Coleb.
Diet, dillord. from small exce81!e8 in,
Sod.carb.
DiHblifJ(f ·(somewhat .laming) pains,
An1. Ar& Artem. Aur. Dar. c. Calc. e.
Cann. Carb. v. Cham. Cbel Cinch.
Coce. Colch. 01'08. Mgn. m. Mez.
Pot. nitr. Sus. Sil Sod•.c. Sod. chi.
Stram. Val Verat.
- in walking, Verat.
- after a walk, Val.
INability of the limbs, AIIIA m. Artem.
Bar. m. Carb. v. Chel. Cinch..Coce.
eolqb. DrOL Mez. Pu.t. Pot. oitr.
Pull. Rhod. Sil. Sod. carb. Tox.
Val.
- in the evening, Dry. Sil,
- ef the parts affected, Cham. Oi~~eh.
Colc4. Plumb.
IJUHwriag pains, I.fn.
. Diltention, een81ltiOD of, ill the body,
Hydr. Sulplt. rub.
.OW.,tion of the limbl, Graph. Sec. Sol
nigr. (comp. tonic spuD!&)
~moving~ Val.
~ of air, dilonl. from, BelL Calc.c.
Caust. OiMh. Kram. Pbo& Pot.carb. .
Sel. See. Sil Sod. carb. Sulpb.
Drawing ee081ltioo through the whole
body, Amb. Amm. c. Bar. c. Bry.
Graph. Hydr. chl. corr. Me24 Sep.
To.r.
- as before intermittent&, Cale. c. Hydr.
chl.corr. Nuxv. Pull. Sep.
- on the surface of the body iq si&ting,
Samb.
DrtJWJing pai11.1 in the mueeles (and
limb.s), Ang. Ant. 1Ulp4. Ant. tart.
Arg. Artem. ASilr. Bar. c. BelL &,.
Calc. 1. Ca~ Carb. w. CoulL Chota.
Clem. Cocc. Dole. lieU. Hvdr. H;rdr.
sulph. rub. Hyose. Jod. .Lam. Lye.
Mgn. m. Mang: Mez. Moseb. M•r. ac.
Myrillt. Nitr. ac. Nuz 11. Ol Petr.
PbOL ae. Plat. Plumb. Pot. carb.
Pot. nitr. Pull. Ran. ac. RI&Otl. Rut.
&bad. See. Sep. Sil. Sod. ehl. &ann.
&t~ph. &ram. Sulph. Sulpb.ae. Tereb.
To:r. Val Verat. Viol.od.
- every other afternoon, Lye.
- after a cold, Nilr.ac. . .
- disabling, Arn. Artt·m. Dar.c. Calc.s.
Carb. v. Charn. Chel. (.'occ. Mgn.m.
M~z. Pot. nitr. Sod. carb.
...,.. ~ubbing, Coleb. Ind. Puis.
- Jerking, Colch. Ind. Puis.
- when moving, /Jrv. Cann. Cape.
- at night, Cham. Plumb. ·
- in the parts affected, Brv.
- pl'ei!!Sing, Anac. Ang. •Arg. Cann.
Cycl. Rut. Sod. chi. &m•n.
- rending, Ckam. Hell. Hgdr. Lam.
Phtmb. Rhod. Sec. Stnph. TO.J:.
- when at rest, Mur. ac. Myrist. RMd.
7'ox. ·
- - reliev€d, &JbaJ.
- by rubbing, relieved, Plumb.
- by shocks, Cocc. Colch.
- in sitting, Staph.
- spasmodic (cramping), Allllr. OL Rut.
- stinging, Colch. Dulc. Hydr. Sod. bor.
- in walking, Verat.
After drinking, complaints, Ant. Ar1.
Anr. Calc. s. Oi~Wie. Cocc. Con. Cupr.
Hell. HyOI!C. Lye. Nitr. ac. Nux v.
Puis. Sep. Sil. &d. cMb. Sod. chl.
S&aph. SUlph. TN". Verat.
- cold liquids, Artem. Calc. c. Graph.
Nv:& v. &d. carb. Sod. chi. Spig.
Sl!q)h. Thu>:·
- warm liquids, Clwm. Dtos. Hell.
Hydr. Puis..
- - relieved, Alum. Lye. Sulph.
- quiekly, 8il.
Paiu driving about, wjth reetlessne~~~,
A,.
- at night, Mgn.
Droply, general, of .tae akin, Aeon.
o;~itized by Coogle
---- - ~------ __._ - --
1. General and predominant effects. 429
Ant.1• .Ar•. Aur. BelL Chioe. Cinch. ErgotilmtU, Cic. &l.nig.
Coloc. Con. Dig. Dule. Euph. Graph. In the e11ening, eompl. appearing and
HeU. Joel. Lact. Led. Ltie. Mez. Mur. exacerbated, Aeon. Agn. Alum. Amb.
ac. ()p. Plumb. Prun. Pot. earb. Pot. Amm..c. Amm.m. Anae. Ant.1. Are.
nitr. &.. ~en. Sep. Sod.e..Sol nig. A11a. BeU. Cale. aulph. Cap•. Carb. a.
Sulph. Tereb. Carb. v. Caust. COloc. Cyc. Dulc.
Drop'lg, after purpura miliaria, Hell. Guaj. Hydr. Hyoac.Jamb. lgn. Ipec.
-after IIClal'latina, Bry. HeU. Samb. lAic. Mar. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mang.
Sulph. Mez. Nitr.ac. 01. Petr. Phoa. Pboe.ac.
-of mterior orgallB, Arg. Ar1. BeD. Plat. Pot.carb. Pot. nitr.Pu/1. Ran.b.
llry. Cinch. Coleh. Con. Dig. Dulc. Ran. •c. Rhod. Sabin. Samb. Sen.
Hydr. Joel. Led. Lye. Pot.carb. Scill. Sep. Sil. Sod.e. Sod.ehl. Sod. sulplt.
sen. Sulph. · Sptg. Stann. Strom. Sulph. Sulph.ac.
J"Jrynt!:.1, sen111t. ot; in the body, Camph. Tot£. Thuy. Val. Zinc.
Dywntery, AnJ. Calc. s. Carb. v. Cape. - relieved, Bruc. Lye.
Colch.. Coloe. Hydr. Hydr. chl. carr. - after lying down, eompl. exacerbated,
lpec. Nux v. Staph. Sulph. Tox. AnJ. Lgn. Led. Pho6. Stroot. Sulph.
- with gastric affection, Coleh. Thuy. ·
- with vomiting, see Cholera. - relieved, Pot..nitr.
From e~~~t aoind, eompl., Calc.s. Carb. v. Evening oir, eau- eompl., Hydr.
Sil. Excitation ofall the organs, AI.
By eating eold foqd, increased or excited, Ezerei•e, see motion, move.
Calc.'· Cut. Con. Graph. HeU. Hydr. Ezhawtion, see fatigue. ·
Mang. Par. Plumb. Pot. earb. Pot. Eztenlion, involuntary, of the muscles
joel. Sulph. Thuy-. and limbs, Lye. Stram. (Sulph.)·
- - warm food, Bar. c. Calt!. c. Hell. In the ezten~ore1, pain, Verat.
Hydr. PhOfi ac. Pula. Sep. Sil. Faintneu, Berb. see weakness.
Sulph. ac. · Fallingdownwith consciousness, Artem.
'i Eclamplis, Artem. Mgn. Myrist. Phoa. Mgn. c. Myrilt. Pbos. Plat. Stram.
Plat. Stram. Making afalle •tey, Bry.
- ofchildren, Artem. Myrist. From tbe use ofjat (rich food), compl.,·
Egg•, diaord. from the. 1mell of, Colch. Carb. v. Pula. Sod. ehl. Tbuy.
EflltJCi«tion (wasting), Amm. c. Ant. Fatigue (exhaustion, weak~ning) of the
.ulph. Ar1. Bar. e. Calc. c. Calc.lUIph. body (Angegriffenheit), Bar.c. Calc.c.
Cham. Cinch. Ch!m. Dig. Dulc. Ferr. Coff. Ferr. Graph. Hy_dr. NtU 11. SiL
Graph. Jod. Lgc. Mgn. c. Mez. Nitr. Sod. c. Stann. Sulph. Ther.
oc. Nuz 11. Op. Petr. Pboe. Pho6.ac. - from lucubration, Coleh.
Plumb. Puh. &.1. Sec. Sel. Sil. - nervous, Calc.c. (c:omp. weakness.)
Sod. c. &d.ehl. Sttmn. Stroot. Sulph. - from speaking,Alum. Ambr. Amm. e.
Tob. Veratr. . Calc.e. Canri. Ferr. Sod.chl. Stann.
- of the parte affected, Plumb. Sulplt.
- in children (atrophy), Bar. c. Calc. - from hearing othera talk, Alum.
sulph. Cham. Cinch. Jod. Lye. Mgo. Amm.e. Ars. Verat. ·
NtU11. Pe.tr. Pula. Sulpb. - from a thunder-etorm, Caust. Nitr. ac.
Emptineu, sensation of, in the body, · Petr. Phoe. RAotl. Sil. Sod. c. ·
Coee. Pot. e. - from walking, Carb. a.
Enlargentmt, sens. of, in single parte, -:- - in the open air, Coff. Con. Ferr.
Alum. Bov. Ep. Hydr. Pot. nitr. Pot.c. Verat.
Epilepeg (epileptic fita, convulsiooa), - from writing, Cann. Sil.
Ae.th. Amon. Ant. tan. Arg. An. Fear, diaordera from, ~II. Op. Pule.
BeU. Oilc. c. Calc. aulph. Camph. Feeli~, too nice, Aur. Bell. Cupr.
C.u.t. Oic. Cocc. Con. Oupr. Dig. Fe•tenng l*n1 Bry.
Dulc. Hydr. Hyowc. lgn. Joel. Lzc. From playang the jfddle, Calc.c. Pot.c.
Mgn.c. Nitr.ae. Nuxv. (Ooiec.) Up. Viol. od.
Petr. Plu». Pho.. ac. Plat. Plumb. Flaccid constitution, Seneg.
Ran. b. See. Sep. Sil &1. m. 8tGnn. Flaccidity in the limbe, Ars. Camph.
Sulpk. VaL ~eratr. Euph. Mgn.c. Sod. c. ·
- in children, Bell Ip. Stann. IJyjlGtulency, aecomp. paine, Carb.v.
-during dentition,lgn. Stann. flinging about, Bell. Canth. Hyose.
- in the evening, Stann. . Stram.
-at night, Calc. c. Pot.earb. (Caust.) In the furenoon, exacerbation, Cnnn.
- after &rief and fright, Ign. Grat. Guaj; Pbos. Phoa. ae. Sass.
Digitized by Coogle
1. General and predominant effects. . I .
, &IHul. &p. Sod.c. &aph. 811lp/uc.
Viol trie.
In the foreiWlm, relief, Alum.
Fret(vlneu, acoompanying the pains,
Cinch. Coff. Nux v. Pboe.
From frigkt, disord., Aeon. BeD. Hydr.
Iga. Op. Pboe. Plat. Sec. &ann.
Stram.
After fruit• uaed, Cinch. Hydr. Rhod.
Puls. &d. c. Soct. bor.
With the full moon eueerb., Alvm. Sil.
Fulnu1, ~en& of, in the body, Rut. .·
- from playing the piano, Anac.
Gans:.lia, Amm. c. Phol. Pboe. ac. Plumb.
Sit. Zinc.
When gaping, compl are excited or ex-
acerb., Artem. Ign. Mgn. Mur. ac.
Sass. Tox.
Gallric complaints, Acen. Ant. 1. Ant.
tart. Ar1. Altar~ .A.a. Aur. BeU. /Jry.
Calc. Chmn. Cmch. Cocc. Cotr. Cok1&.
Cop. Cor. Cupr. Cyc. f>ilr. Hydr. Ign.
lpec. Lttc. Nuz 11. Phol. l>lumb. Pul&.
Rlam. &1U. &c. Sod. cbl Staph.
Sulpb. Tab. Tar. Ther. Verot. Zinc.
GlandUlar affeetioiUI in general, Bar. c.
BeD. Con. Jod. Petr. PhoL Pot. c.
Spong. Staph. Sulpla. . ·
- by., a blow or contUiion prodnced
contpl., Con. Joel. Petr. Phoe. Pot.c.
- excitement of the glandular sys&em,
Joel. '
- tlaccidity, Con. Jod.
- induration,&r.c. Bry_.Calc.c. C.rb.11.
Carb. v. Cocc. Con. J.Jig. Dulc. Graph.
· Jod.Nuxv. Petr.Phos.Pot.c. Ran. b.
8U.8pong.Sulph.ToL .
- inftainmation, &r. c. Bell Calc. a.
Carb. v. Cham. Con. Dulc. Hydr.
Nitr. ac. Petr. Phos. Pot. c. Sass. 8il
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Toz.
- juice more seereted, Joel.
...:. nodes. Carb. a. Clem. Coloo. Dulc.
·Graph. Lye. Phoe. Sulph.
- }Mlin, eimple, Alum. Am. Calc. c.
Carb. a. Canst. Coloc. Con. Hydr.
Lye. Nitr. ae. Phoe.ac. Phos. ac. 8il
. Spig. Staph. Thuy. Tox.
- - boring, (Bell)
- - burning, (Carb. v. Hydr. Phos.)
- - concractiog, Mang. Ni&r. ac.
- - drawing, BeU..Sen.
- -lerking, Clem. .
- - t&ehing, Anac. Carb. a. Carb. v.
Canst. Con. Mgn.c. Phoe. Pot. c.
Sep. Sil
- - pressing, (Aur. BeD. Hydr. Mang.
Phos. ac: Stann.)
-:- - rending, Bell
- - stinging, BeU. Cocc. Con. Hydr.
Sod.ehL
- - throbbing, Amm. m. Clem.
Glatluler pain, tightenin«, Graph.
- - tingling (creeping), Con.llydr.
- 11ensitivenees,(Aur.Nitr.ac.Sulpb.ac.)
- svn!lling, Alum. Amm. c. Ani. Ars.
A-. Aur. Btw. c. BeU. Bov. Bry.
Calc.c. Calc.1. Corb...Carb. v. Caust.
Cham. Clem. Olec. Coa. Duk. Grqlt.
Hydr. JOO. Lye. Mgn. e. Mgn. m.
Mez. Mur.ac. Nitr.ac. Nwtv. Petr.
Plw& Phoe.ae. Pule. SaM. Sep. 8tL
Sod.c. 8od.ehl8ptntg. Stann. &ap'k.
Sulpa. Sulpb. .c. Thuy. Zinc.
~ suppuration, Bell. Calc. c. c.lc. •·
Coloc. Hydr. Niir. ac. Petr. Sep. 8iL
Sulpla.
- ulcention, Phol. Sil.
From gon,orrh- suppreMed , . COibpl,
&11. Vent.
From griif, oompl., lgn. Pl.-.ac.lf!tafla.
~ (mootmg) paiWI, Coec. Myrilt.
- drawmg, Colch. Ind. Pull.
- preesin~, Myn.t.
Hemoplym, see Sec. 14. 28.
Hemorrhllgu from eiogle orgau, Arn.
A11a. Bell. Carb. v• .Citutam. Coee.
Cop. Croc. Ep. Ferr. Hydr. Jod.Ipec.
Knuf.. Kreo1. MiU. Phol. Sabin.
Sulph. .
Hemoirhoidcl diepoeition, Nwt T.
Heat during the pains, Carb. v.
Heat and redness of orie cheek during
the paiWI, Cham.
Heat of the parta afteeted, AC6R. Bry.
Sulpb.
Heavineu of the limbe, .AiDan. Ant. s.
Ant. tart. Am. Asia. Bar. c. Bell.
Berb. Campb. C.roC. Ferr. magn.Ign.
Me~. N1U: v. Par. Petr. Ph(l8.
Phos. ac. Plumb. Pull. Rlam. Rut.
Sabad. &c. Spig. Stram. Tereb.
Tbuy. .
- in die forenoon, &blld. ·
- in the morniup;, when awaking, Zinc.
- fro~ (>Ia~ the piano, Anac.
..- m saumg, Rut.
- after sleep at noon, Staph. .
HydropAobili, BeU. Cantla. HyCIIIC. (Lach.)
Stram.
HypochoJUln.cal ~mptoDI8, A-. Aur.
BeD. Cham. CUta\. Con. Gnt. Hell.
!Wgn. m. Moeeb. Mez. Nuz 11. Plaol.
Pboe. ae. Plumb. Puis. &d. e. &.rnn.
Stapla. 8ulpla. Val. Verat. Vtel. otl.
Zinc. .
- orisinating from the .exual system,
Cinch. Coa. MOICla. Staph.
Hy1teric complainta, Anac. Ar& A11a.
Aur. BelL Bf'J. Cann. CaDit. Cham.
Cinch. Cie. Cocc. Om. Grat. Hyoee.
IJ[n. Joel. Ipec. Mp. 111. McllcA.
Myrilt. Niir. ac. Nuz "· Phol. Plat.
Plumb. Pull. &p. Sil Sod. c. 8t11na.
. DigitizedbyGoogle
' I
1. General and predominant e.ffects. 431
Staph. IJfr-. 8fllpA. Till. Terat. Cann. Canth. Cop. Dilr. Dro& Hytlr.
Viol. ol. Hy011e. Laur. Lye. )fez. Nitr. ac.
H~tmc eompL after eexual debauches, Nun. Phoe. Pot.ttitr. hu. Sabftd.
· Anac. CoD. Scill. Sen. Sep. Spong. Sulph. To.r.
JGCtittJtifm (tOilllin(_ about) eaueed by Verat.
pains, CMm. Co./f. Mgft. c. Mang.Tab. - - with burning pains, Are. Cantb.
Jatitttlice, Aeen. Al'll. Bry. Calc.e. Cantb. Eupb. Mez.
Carb. v. Cinch. Con. Cupr. DiJc. - - with dry heat, Aeon. BeD. Bry.
!IJdr. Nitr.ae. Nu.rw. Plwrtb. Pull. - - nenous, Bell. Dry. HJOIC. Lye.
Ran. b. See. 8ulph. Sulph.ac. Tox. To.r.
JM"kl, convulsive, Alum. Aman. Amll. _.- with dilpoeition' to ~ppurate,
Ant. tart. Am. Arltm. AMa. Bar. e. · Al!lllll. Bell. Cole. '· Hyttr. Lye.
BelL Dry. Carb. •· Caust. Clam. Cie. Mez. Pall. Sit. Sulph. '
Cocc. Om. Cupr. Graph. Hytnc. Jol. - with perepiration and weakne&~,
lAur. Lvc. op. Petr. Plat. Plumb. Hydr. Pbos.ae.
Pot. e. Aan. ee. Scill &c. Sep. Sil ln.Jfezi/Jility, eee·Stitrne-.
Sod. c. Sol. cAl. &l. nig. Stram. Irtfluenza, Are. Dry. Camph. Carb. v.
Sulph. Tab. Thuv. Caust. Hyd-t. Lye. Nuxv. To.r.
- at night, eee "illeep". Infori.attng paiDII, Are.
Jerking sens. and pain, Anac. Artem. After intermittent• suppreMed; eompL,
Aear. AMa. Cmch. Cocc. Colcb. A,., Are. Anem. BeD. Ccle. c. Cop•.
Graph. Ind. Kram. Mgn. e. Mang. Carb. v. Ferr. H)'dr. lflec. Put.. Bep. ·
Mez. Moeeh.' Phoe. a. Plat. Puis. Sod.cAl. Sulph. Yerat.
Sod. e. Sod. chi. Sod.aulph. Interrupted, jerking pains, A-. Plat.
- in the blood ve~~~els, Sabin. Rhod. Val. ·
- disabling, Arttm. Cinch. Colch. IntolerfJIJk seeming paine, Aeon. Cham.
-drawing, Coleh. Ind. Puis. Co.ff. Verat.
- in the evening, Sod. sulph. From intoocieation, diaonl., Carb. v. Cojf.
~at ni~ht, Sod.sulph. Ipee. Nu#Cv. Op. PuJs.
- rendmg, Amm.m. AMI'. Cillcla; Coec. lraftlarb moving pains, Canth. Oleand.
Cupr. Pboe. ae. Pula. Sod.s. Plat.
Je•t•, ridiculous or foolish, Bell. ·ctc. Jointa, affection of&be, in general: Cape.
Hyoee. 8tf'dfll. Tan. Verst. Man!{.
Jncreuing pains, and then gradually - arthntie eompl., Aor. Dry. Corb.s.
diaappearing, Plat. Stann. Stront. Caust. Cinch. Coee. Dig. Graph.
- then suddenly disappear., &dpla. ac. Led. Lgc. Mong. Pttr• Pule. RhOd.
Iracublu, eee Night-mare in See. 3. &bin. Staph. Sulph.
Incurvation (crooking), IIJMIIlmodic, of - in the warmth ofthe bed, Sulpb. ·
single parts, Amb. Ant. tart. Artem. - eoldneae, Hydr.sulph.rub. Pttr. ·
Colc.e. Carb.a. Caust. Cinch. Colch. - t'reeping (tingling), Am. Ipec. See.
Coloc. Con. Euph. Graph. Guaj. - dryneas, sensation of, Canth. .
Hydr. Hgoae.Lye.Men. Phoe. Plum&. - eruption, Sep,
Pot. e. Pot. jod. Sec. 8il. Stram. - erysipelatous inftammat., BrJ. Rhod.
Sulph. - beavme•, Pboe.ae.
From tndi,trnation, eompL, Olloc. Staph. - infirmity, Aeon. Am. (Croc.) Sulph.
- unwortny treatment, eompL, Olloc. Tox.
Staph. · - inftammation, Dry.
InluratiOM, after inAammations, BI'J. - itehio«, Hydr. Sep. Zinc.
Cllirb. s. CarlJ. v. Con. Dule. Jod. - - at night, Hydr.
Nux v. Pot. e. Ran. b. Spong. Bulph. - knaok.ing and crepitation, ARK.
Tox. Camph. Copa. Cub.a. Cham. Cocc.
For in/Gflt• partieulllrly 8Uitable, Aeon. Lye. Nitr. ae. Petr. Sod.ebL Tbuy.
Amb. Bar. e. Bell. Cslc. c. Claam. - knickling, easily, Carb.a. Croc. Sil.
Cinch. Hydr. lgn. 1~. Lye. Mgn. e. - looseneas, ae011. of, Croe.
M,.Ut. Nu.r v. Pula. RAm. 8il. Stann. - numbneas, sens. o(, Lye. Plat.
Staph. 8ulph. · - on one side, Mang.
lrafirmity of the body, Bar. e. Bryon. - pai011, in general, Bar.e. Coec. Cure.
Caust. Ferr. magn. Sep. Sol. c. Hydr. Guaj. Ign. . Jod. Let/., Lye.
l'fllammationa (external, see under •oeu. Mafl8'. Nuxv. PW. Rita &aph.
taneoua disord. Sec. 2.") · - - u if beaten, Aman. Ang. A,..
IJtlfcmmatioftl of interior organe, Aoon. Aur. Bell. C.ri». L Con. Oupr.
Ant. tart. Are. BeU. Dry. Calc. a. Dig. Mur. ae. Nun. Par. Phoe.
Digitized by Coogle
i. General and predominant effects.
Pbos. ac. Pul& RMt. Sod. nitr.
Violod.
Joit&t1, affection of the, paine, u from a
blow, Cupr.
- - burning, Sod.e. Sod. nitr.
- - after a cold, Mang. Myr-Ut.
- - cutting, Hyoae.
--disabling, Amm. c. Arn. Aur.
Euph. Led. &.1. Sod. e. Stop/&.
Stram.
- - drawing, Amm. c. Graph. Hydr.
H!JOic. Mez. Petr.Plat. Pule.Rhod.
Sec. Se~Sod.e. ~aph. ~ram.
- - in the evening, Sod. e. Stroot.
- - 118 if fatigued, ~·
- - grubbing ( mootmg, wiihlend),
Mung. Rhod.
- - ~erking, Mang. Plat. Sod. c.
- - m the morning, Aur. Staph.
Viol od.
- - by motion inereued, Am. Bry.
· l.M. Par. Rhm. Staph.
- - nocturnal, Qwb. a. Mang. Sil.
Sod. e. Stroot.
- - penetrating, Dig.
- - m a 'Yrong poBture, Staph.
- - pressmg, Pot. e.
- - rasping (sehriindend), Mang.
- - rending (tearing), Amm. e. Aur.
Bov. Calc. c. Cawt. Graph. Hydr.
Hyose. Jod. Led. Mar. Petr. Phol.
Pot. c. Pot. nitr. &bin. &.1. &c.
' Sep. Sod.c. Sod.chi. Stront.Sulph.
- - when at rest, Aur. Dros.
- - rheumatic, Guaj.
- - spasmodic, cramping, Par. Plat.
Stram.
- - stinging, Arn. Bell. Calc.'· Colch.·
Dfos. HeU. Hytlr. Led. Mang.
Pot.c. Pot. nitr. Puis. Sabin. Sep.
. Sil. Sulpk. Sulph. ac. To~. Thuy.
- - - at night, Sil.
- - throbbing, Led.
, - - when touched, Bry. Puis.
- - wrenching, Amm. c. Caps. lgn.
Par. Tox.
- soreneee (galled), Mang. OL &p.
- sw~lling, Ago. Led. Mang. lUwtl.
Sabtn. Sulph. · .
- etifthe~~~, unwieldinees, Bry. Canth.
Capt. Carb. a. Coce. Coloe. Graph.
Lye. Nuxv. Petr. Pot. c. _
&p. Staph.
Sulph. Tox. . ·
- - m the morning, Staph.
- tenderness, Arn.
- tellllion, straining, Amm. c. Amm. m.
1\lang. Tox.
- tremor, Mang.
- weakneee, Aeon. Borl. Carb.a. Carb.
v. Enph. Mang. Mez. Phos. Puis.
Rbod. Bil. Sod. bor. Sulph.
Fromjo,, exeelllive, bad reeulta, Co.ff.
Juia, disorders from the losa of, Oincl&.
Phol.oc. Sulph.
JumpiRg', like sometiUng alive, Croc.
For kind-hearted individ., suitable, Puis.
By a lamentcble dilllpoeition accompanied
paine, Cham. Cqff. Pult.
Fromlaughing,compl.,Art. BeU. C&l'b.v.
Stau.. .
Leae-poi.soning, Alum. BeU. Hyose. Op.
PltJt. Stram.
Lift side chiefty attacked, Bar.c. Laeb.
Pot. nitr. Sulph.ac. Tbuy.
Lepra, Alum. Ar...Carb.v. Caust. Graph.
Petr. Sep. Sil. Sod.e. Sulph.
Lifting, liability to suffer from, Am.
Bry. Calc. c. Carb. a. Carb. e. Con.
Graph. Hydr. Lye. Phoa. Pot. c. Sep.
Sil. Sod.c. Sod. chi. Sulph. Tox.
Lifting tDf'o'!R, disoro. from, Bry. Calc. c.
C<wb.e. 'lo~.
From bright light, disord., Colch. Hydr.
L1c. Stram.
- of the sun, Aman. Sod. c. Sulph.
For light· haired indiv. suitable, (Cape.
Clem. Con. Dig. Hydr. Lye. Thuy.)
- unauitable, Nitr.ac. .
Lightne11, aens. o~ in the body, A1ar.
Coff. Lact. (Stram.)
- alternating with languor, Sod. ehl.
Limb•, u ifaepar. from the body, Stram.
For lively temperaments suitable, Nux v.
Lieer grown in children, Cham.
Loathing, attendingthe paroxysms, /pee.
Loo1ene11 o( the flesh, aens. of, Bry.
Nitr.ac. Sulph. Tox. (comp. Pain, aa
~if beaten.)
Line, di88ppointed, HytJ~C. lgn. Phot.ac.
- with jealousy, Hyo.c. ·
- with silent grief, lgn. Pho1. ac.
From lucubration and watching"" night,
. disord., Coec. Colch. Nuz.e. Pula.
LukevHZrm water, disord. from, AM.
To litJ down, inclination, Aeon. Alum.
Ant. tart. Ara. Bar. c. Bry. Calad.
Canth. C/aam. Chel. Clem. Coff. Cyc.
Ferr. Grat. Led. Lye. Nuz v. &l.
Tar. Thea. T~.
When ltlinlc down, compl., Amb. Ara.
Aasa:Bell. Bry.Calc.c. CRrb.v. Caust.
Dig. Hyoac. Moseh. Myriat. Nux v.
/ SeC. Sep. Sil. Sulph. To~. Verb.
- relievf!d, Alum. Canth. Cupr. Hydr.
· Mgn.c. Nitr.ac. Phell Sod.chl. Staph.
Verat.
When lying in bed, compl., Amb. Art.
Calc. c. Caust. Graph. Hydr. lgn.
Led.IAjc. Mgn. c. Nu.xv. Phoa. Pul..
R.hod. &p. Sil. Staph. To.x.
- relieved, Ara. Bry. Evon. Hydr. Lye.
Sabael. &ill. Spong. Verat.
When lying upon tile parta affected,
pain, Pot.e.
Digitized by Coogle
1. General and predomirtant eifects.
When lying upon the part(Bide) aftected,
worse, Ar8. (Bell. Calc.c.) lgn. (Puis.)
- - relieved, Arn. Bry. Cu-b. v. Cham.
lp. Lye. Mgn. a. Nux v. PheiL
liw..
- upon the aide not affected, worse,
Bry. Cham. (lgn.) Puis.
- - relieved,Amao.lgn.Mgn.c. Mgn.a.
Nuxv. Pot.c. Pot.jod. Sod. clil.
. - upon the back. worse, Phoa. PulL
- - relieved, 1gn. PW..
- upon the side, worse, Ara. Bar. e.
Calc. a. Graph. Ign. PW.. Sabad. 8il.
- - relieved, Nuxv. Phoa.
- UpOn the left side, compL, Aman.
Amm. c.~. Aru. Bar. c. BelL Canth.
Graph. Hycfr. Lye. Nuxv. Par. PM..
Pot. c. Sen. Sep. Sod.c. Sulph. Tab.
- on the right, Ara. Calc. c. Hydr.
Mgn. m. Sen. Sep. Spig. S&ann. Tar.
- on both the sides, Anac. Carb.v. Puis.
With lying, paroxysms connected, Ar&
Bry. Calc. c. Con. Ferr. Ipec. Lye.
Mosch. Nw: v. OL Petr. PM.. ac.
Sep. Sod.ehl. Verat.
Fot lying-in women particularly suit-
able, Arn. Bell. Bry. Chtnn. Co.ff.
Hyosc. Ign.lpec. Nuxv. Puis. Verat.
For the male sex suitable, Nw:w..Phos.
MtmiG a fJOtu, Ars. Hyoee. Nuxv. Op.
Sulph.
From manual labour, compl., Sod. cAl.
For meager peraoWJ suitable, Amb.
Nw:v. Phoa.
During meah, excited orexseerb. compl.,
Arg. Am. Bry. Cocc. Graph. Hydr.
Mar. Mgn. m. Plw1. Pot.e. Sabin. See.
Sod. bor. Sod. c. &d.cAl.
- relieved, Anac. Aur.
After meall, .sympt. exaeerb., Alum.
Anac. Ant.'· Ar1. Cocc. Evon. Hyoec.
. lgn. Nuzv. Ph01. Ran. b. Sep. Sod.
bor. Valer. Zinc. (comp. Sec. I7.)
--dinner, Alum. Ara. Nwn. Phos.
Val. Zinc.
- relieved, Alum. Phos. Sod. c.
From mealu suppressed, disord., Aeon.
Bry. Dros. Dule. PW.. Tox.
Mechanical injuries (from a stroke, fall,
· blow or contusion), Am. Calc. s. Con.
(Jod. Phos. Pot.c.) Sulph. Sulph. ac.
.Too%.
After mental affections, disord., Bry.
Co.ff. Lye. Phos. Pot. e. Sod. chi. Zinc.
(comp. Vexation, joy, fear, grief &c.)
By mentiJl exertion, sympt. exeit., Aur.
Calc.e. Colch. Nw: v. ·Plat. Puis. Sep.
Sil. Sod.c.
Mercury, disord. from ita misuse, Arg.
A11a. Aur. BelL Calc. c. Calc. 1.
Ct~rb. v. Cinch. Clem. Dulc. Euph.
Guaj. Jod. Lye. Jlles. Nilr. ~~e. Op.
Phoa. ac. PUlt. &u. Sep. 8il. Spig.
Staph. Stroot. 8ulpla. Tli11y. Val.
Mercurilll vapours, diiJonl. &om, &rtM.
To be mumerf.ud, desire, Calc.e.
Before mUlni,trlat, . exseerb., AU«. Ant.
tart. Am.lJry. Calc. s. Carb. v. Hydl\
Lye. Mur. ac. Petr. PW. I!JiimK.
Stano. Tox. ·
After fflidni.glat, Aeon. Amm. Ant. tart.
Ar1. Aur. CalC: c. Calc. s. Ctmn.
Caoth. ~ Cauet. Coft: Croc. Dule.
Graph. Hydr. Jod. Mia. Pia&. Pot.c.
Pot. nitr. SiL Sod.c. S"ulph.ac. TAuy.
Mild, though distinctly perceptible paios,
VioLod.
From milk Uled, dilord., Alum. Arg.
Ara. Oic. Nuz 11. Phoa. Stram. Val.
· Zinc.
Moaning aod lamenting from the paine,
Canth. Chtnn.
By moilt weather, exscerb., Amm. c.
Calc. c. Carb. v. Dulc. Lye. Mang.
Myri.et. RJwd. Sep. Sod. bor. TN.
Verat.
In the monaiJ18, exscerbaUon, AcoR.
Amm. c. Ant. '· Aru. Artem. Aur.
Bar.e. Bell. Bov. Bry.Calc.c.Carb.a.·
Carb. v. Cauet. Cinch. Clem. CoB:
Con. Croc. Cupr. Dig. Dro.. DuJc.
Euph. Ferr. Graph. Guoj. HelL Ip.
Jod. Mgn. m. Mez. Nitr. ac. Nv:r 11.
Op. Petr. Pho1. Phos. ac. Plumb.
Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Ran. b. Rbm. Rhod.
Sus. Sen. Sep. Sod. e. Sod.chl. SN.
Stann.Staph. Stram.Sulph. Sulph.ac.
Thuy. Val. Verat. VioLOd•
..,... in bed, Calc. a. Plao..
- after rising up, Gtulj. Ign.
Mortijication (vexation), disord. from,
lgn. Plwl. ac. Staph.
.1llotionofthelimbs,difficult, BeU.Camph.
Chel. Tereb.
--extraordinary, Tanac.
By motion (exercise) increased compl
and pains, Aeon. Aa'n. Am.AI:& BeU.
Bry. Calc. c. Caps.lJinch. Coloc. Con.
Cupr. Dig. Graph. Hell. Hydr. lgn.
Ipee. Laur. Led. Mez. Nitr. ac. Nw:v.
OJ. Phol. Plumb. Ran. b. Seill. Sil.
&d.cltl. Spig. &ann. Staph. Verat.
Zinc.
- relieved, Amao. Amb. Ara. A11a.
Bar.c. Calc.c. Cye. Dulc. Euph. Ferr.
Grat. Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. M01eh.
Mur. ac. Op. PhelL Phos. ae. Plat.
Pot. c. Pot. jod. Pull. Rlwd. Rut.
Samb. Sen. &-p. &d. c. Sod. sulpb.
Sulph. Tong. 'l'w:. Valer.
After motion (exercise) exaeerb., Aman.
Anac. Canst. Croc. Nitr. ac. Phos.
Pot. c. PW.. Sep. Spig. Stcn,., Val.
Zinc.
37
Digitized by Coogle
t. General and predominant etfects.
To move (exercise), avel'llion, Amm. c.
Calad. CaP'. Chel. Guaj. Lye. Mur.ac.
Nuzv. SOcJ.c. &tl:.cltl. Thea. Thuy.
Zinc.
To move the ,parts affected, inclination,
Cinch. Ferr.
MUC008 membranes, disea!es of the,
Ant. tart. Ars. Asea. BeU. Bry. Calc.s.
Cinch. Dulc. Euph. Ferr. Hydr. lpec.
Mez. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Plumb. Puls.
Rbm. Sen. Stann. Sulph.
MUIClu,decurtstionofthe, Amm. c. Ars.
Caust. Coloc. Graph. Sod. c. &d.,chl.
--general, alloverthebody,(Caust.)
Coloc.
- - sensation of, Bee tightnese below.
- flaccidity (relaxationof), Caps. Clem.
Con. Hydr. Sen. Verat.
- rigidity, Aeon. Nitr.ac. Plat.
-tension in the, Amm.c. Ang. Ant.s.
Arn. Bar. c. Bry. Euph. Mang. Mei.
Nux v. Plat. To.r.
'--when exercising, Bry.
- - when at rest, To.r.
- - when walking, Ang.
- tightnese, straining, asfrom too short
tendons, Amm. c. Amm. m. Bar. c.
Carb. a. Caust. Graph. Mang. 01.
Phos. Pule. Sep. Sulph. Tox.
- twitching of the, Ant. tart. Aua.
&r.c. Bry: Clem. Coce. Kram. Mar.
Mgn. c. Men. Mez. Ran. b. Sep. &d. c.
Soil.chi. Sulph. Zinc.
- -.general, Bar.c.
--at night, Bar. c.
- - when at rest, Men.
From mtuic, sympt. exacerb., Calc. c.
Cotr. Phos. ac. Pot. c. Sep. &d. c.
Stann. Tab. Viol. od. Zinc.
From the naughtiness ofothers, compl.,
Colch. ,
With the new-moon, exacerb., Amm. c.
Sil.
At night, Amm. m. Ant. s. Ars, Artem.
Aur. Bar. c. Bism. Calc. c. Calc. a.
Camph. Cann. Caps. Carb.a. Carb. v.
Cauat. Cham. Cinch. Clem. Colch.
Con. Croc. Dig. Dule. Ferr. Gt'at.
Guaj. Hydr. Hydr. sulph. rub. Hyosc.
Jamb. Led. Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. m.
Mgn. s. Mang. Mur. ac. Nice. Nitr. ac.
01: ()p. Par. PhOI!. Plat. Plumb. Pot.c.
Ran.b. &c. Sep. 8il. Sod.c. Sod.cbl.
• Spong. Stroot. Sulph. 8ulph.ac.Thuy.
- with chills, Calc. s.
- with hemiplegia, Sod.chi.
- with obstruct. ofthe breath, Sod.chi.
Night-mare, see Sec.3.
By noise (sounds &c.) increased pains,
Arn. Calc. c. Lye~ Mang. Plat. Sil.
soo.c. Zine.
At noon, exaeerb. sympt., Alum. Arg.
Are. Oic. Nuz v. Phoe. Stram. VaL
Zinc.
With the north-wind, Sep.
Numbness of the limbs (the feeling, com-
monly called "asleep"; Eingesehla-
fenheit), Amb. Arg. Calc.c. Carb,a.
C,arb. v. Cinch. Oocc. Croc. Graph.
Gua~. Hydr. Hyosc. lgn. Led. Lye.
Mar. Petr. Phos. ac. Pula. Rhm. Sep.
Sit. 8ulph. Thuy. Verat. .
- when lying upon, Cinch. Pot. c.
Rhm. Sit.
- after manual labour, Sep.
- at night, Croc. Thuy.
- on one side, Caust.
- when at rest, Pula.
- in sitting, Hydr.
- of the whole surfilce of the body, in
the morning, Amb. v
Obstruction of breath, caused by the
pains, Puls. Sod.chi. ·
For old age suitable, Aur. &r. c. Caust.
Con. Led. Op.
From onanism, disord., Calc. c. Cinch.
Con. Mosch. Myrist. Nux v. Phos.
Phoa. ac. Sep. Staph. 8ulpla.
One aided complaints, Aman. Amm. c.
Amm. m. Alum. Bar. e. Bell Canth.
Cocc. Laeh. Mang. Mez. Pule. Sabad.
Stroot. 8ulph.ac. Thuy. Tox. Zinc.
- chiefly on the left, Bar.e. Hydr. Lach.
Pot. nitr. Sulph. ac. Thliy. ·
- chieflyon the right, Amm.c. Amm. m.
Canth. Phos. Plumb. Sabad. Stram.
Stroot.
- (first on the right, then the left,
&bad.)
- on that side upon which one lies,
Bell. Calc. e. Calc. s; Carb. a. Caust.
lgn. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Nux v•. Pot. c.
Pot.jod. Sep. Spig. Stann. Taru:.
--upon which one does not lie,
Cham. lgn. Phell. Pula. Spong.
Tox. Verb.
Onions, disord. from, Thuy. .
In the open air, Amm.c. Arn. Are. Bry.
Calc. c. Calc.s. Camph. Cann. CaJMi.
Carb. v. Cauat. Cham. Cic. Cinch.
Cocc. Cojf. Con. Ferr. Graph. Grat.
Hydr. lgn. lpec. Led. Lgc. Man~.
Mosch. Myriat. Nitr.ac. Nuzv. Petr.
Pot.c. Sabad. Sabin. Sen. Sep. Sod.c.
Spig. Staph. Stram. Sulph.Sulph.ac.
Tab. Thuy. Tox. Valer. Verat. Viol.
tric. Zinc.
- relief, Aeon. Aeth. Alum. Anah.
Amm. m. Arg. Assa. Aur. Bar. c.
Croc. Graph. ~ell. Mgn. c. Mgn. m.
Mang. Nice. Nux v. 01. 0,. PhelL
Plat. Pula. Rhod. Sass. Sen. Sep.
Sod.sulph. Stann. Stront. Sulph.ac.
Tab. Tart. ac.
Digitized by Coogle
S. General and predominant effec~
Oputhotonu, Ang. Bell. Cham. Cic. Ign. ' Graph. LJ1'- Myrilt. Nitr. ae. Nuxv.
Ipec. Op. Stann. Stram. Tox. , PM.. Pot.c. Sep. 8il. Sod.ehlSpong.
Opium, disord. from its mistu~e, Cl&am. Stann. Staph. Sulph. (eomp. Con-
Hydr. sumption.)
Outward. moving pairus, AHII. Pinchi711f pairus, Brue. Cann. Men.
Overheating, slight, Ale. Carb.a. From playi711f the piano, diaord., Anac.
- disorders from, Carb. v. 8iL Thuy. CalC.e. Pot.e. Sep. &d.c. Zinc.
· Zinc. Plethoric habit, Aeon. BeU. Ctdc. c.
Over-irritation, ne"ous, Asar. Cham. Cale.s. Hydr. Phos. Sen.
Cinch. Co.ff. Hydr. Ign. Jod. Mar. Plug, as ifsticking in, painful sensation,
Nux e. Pul1. Tox. Val. Anac. Ign. Plat. 8ulph.ac.
- from mercury (calomel), Cclc. 1. Polype1, Calc. c. Mar. ver.
Nitr. ac. · Poly1arcia (excessive corpulency), Ant.
- in lyin~-in women, C'AJ.ff. · sulph. Calc. c.
Over-•enntivene" of the body, Aeon. - in young men, Calc.c.
Aman. Arn. Artem. A1ar. Aur. Bar.e. Pork, disord. from its use, Pull.
BeD. Canth. Cham. Cinch. Coee. - disord. from its ameU, Colch.
Cof. Cupr. Hydr. Nuxv. Phos. P01tttre altered, increased pain from,
- of~rts itffeeted, Co.ff. Nitr. ae. Pull. Ran. .
Painjidneu (soreness) of the whole .!.- relief, lgn. Nux v. Val
body, Aeon. Ant. tart. Artem. Coee. From potatoe1 uaed, disord., Alum.
Cott: Coleh. Mgn. e. Pot. e. Sep. Spig. For pregnant women particularly suit·
Staph. · able, Aeon. Alum. Bar.e. Bry. Calc.c.
Painle1811e,, with the complaints, Op. Cic. Co.ff. Con. Croe. Dulc. Graph.
Stram. Hyose. lpec. Lye. Mgn. c. Myn8t.
Ptlll"tdy•i8 (lameness), Anac. Ang. Ars. Nuxv. Petr. Phos. Plat. Pull. Sabin.
Bry. Carb. v. Caut. Cocc. Coleh. 8ep. Sod.chi. 8ulph.
Cupr. Dulc. HyOII!ICI. Laur. Nuz v. Pre11Ure of the cloths intoler., Amm. e.
Oleand. Op. PhOI. Pl"mb. Pot. c. Bry. Calc.s. Con. Nuxv. Spong.
See. 8il. &d. cAL &imn. Stram. By prelli711f upon exaeerb. pains, Bell
8ulph. Tox. Zinc. Bry. Calc.c. Hydr~ Mez. Nux v. 8il.
- afterapoplexy,Anae.Bar.c.Beli.Con. Zinc. '
Laur. Nuxv. Stann. Stram. Zinc. - relieved, Alum.Amm.e.lnd. Mgn.m.
- of one side (hemiplegia), Cocc. Sod. .. Mang. Mur. ae. Phos. Pot. c. Pull.
chi. Stront. Tox. Zinc. · Sod. e. Stann. Tong. .
- - in the evening, Stront. - - the nocturnal peirus, Phos.ae.
- - at night, caused by the pains, Pressing pains (Driic&ende Schmerzen)
Sod.chl. (in the muscles), Anac. Ang. Arg.
- of the parts affected, Colch. Plwmb. · Arn. Artem. A11a. Bell. Bism. Cann.
For parturient women particularly suit· Caps. Corb. a. Cinch. Cupr. Cyc.
able, BeU. Cham. Cic. Coff. Croe. Droa. Euph. lgn. Led. Lye. Mgn.c.
Hyose. Ign. Nux v. Puls. Sabin. 8ec. Mez. Mur. ac. Oleand. Petr. Phos.
From rich past'1J, disord., Pull. Plat. Ran. se. Rut. Sod. ehl. Stann.
Periodical eompl., Alum. A71tJC. An. Staph. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Val.
Aur. Bell Canth. Carb. v. Cupr. Ferr. Verat. Zinc.
Ferr. magn. Hydr. Hyose. Ign. Lye. - burning, Amm.m.
Nux 11. Plumb. Ran. se. Rhod. See. - contracting,.Cann.
Sil. Sulph. Val. · - drawing,Anac. Ang. Arg.Cann.Cye.
Perlpiration, on the head, attending the Rut. 800. cbl. Stann.
compl., Cham. - ~rubbing, Myrill.
- of the parts affeeWd, Ant. tart. Hydr. - 10ward prei!Sing, Plllt.
Stront. - equeezing, OWind. Plllt. Pbos.ac.
By per6piration attended pains, Hydr. 1 - l!ltmging, Artem. Alia. Canth. Dros.
&d. c. Tab. Euph. Ign. Mur. ac. Plat. Sabad.
- after parox~I!IIDS of madnes~, eu,w. 8ulph. ac. Thuy.
AAerperapiratton,compl.relieved,C"alad. -tearing (rending), Arg. BeD. Bism.
CtiauL Sod. c. Tbuy. Cann. Cupr. Cyc. Led. Rut. Sass.
For phlegmatiC temperaments particu- Stann.
larly suitable, Cape. Pull. Sen. . - by touch increased, Cupr.
- unsuitable, Nuxv. Prt~li711f a~Under, lgn,
Phthiftl, Ara. Ber. e. Calc. c. Carb. a. Prt~li711f of the elotha intolsr., Amm. e.
Carb. v. Cinch. Con. Cupr. Dulc. Bry. Calc. s. Cott: ~· Nuxv. Spong.
Digitized by Coogle
1. General and predominant e1fects.
~re, M iC the whole body "!Ould
bunt,AL
PrickU,.,.~en&,Ferr.IDIIP- Moeeh. Plat.
Pul«, eee Sec.4.
PuWJtitm in &he body, Amb. Ant. tart.
Clem. Grtlph. Hydr. Jod. Plumb.
PoLe. PulL 8abad. &bia. See. Sep.
8od.chJ. Tab. Thuy. Zinc.
- in the evening, Thuy.
- fromexertionandlittlemotion,Graph.
Jod. Pula. Thuy.
After PurpurtJ militJN, diaord., (Aeon.
Cott) Hell.
Quivering,seetwitching (UDdermWJCies)
and jerking.
Rllumeu, een& o( Ang. Canth.
From retJding, dieord., CtJlc. c. Cinch.
Cocc. Graph. Lye. Nuxv. Phoe. Pula.
Rut. SiL Sod.cbL
To recline the head, inclination, Carb.T.
With rednu1 of the cheeks, atteuded
. Clulm.
~imaofthemWJCles(limbe),Bar.m.
Cham.Cupr.Ferr.magn. HelL Nw:fJ.
Viol.od.
- sudden in walking, Con.
RelutJtion (Abepennung) (bodily and
mental), Alum. Arum. Calc.c. Carb.v.
Caut. Con. Ep. Lact. Lye. Phos.
8en. &d. chl. Spong. Stann. Viol tric.
- with convulsive laughing, - Calc. c.
Con.
- in the evening, CtJut. Stroot.
- after exertion, Sod. cbt.
- in the morning, Lact. Pot. nitr. Stront.
- at noon, Carb. v.
- with thirst, E~ir.
Rendiag (tearing) in the muscles, limbe.
Aeth. Alum. Aman. Amb. Amm. e.
Amm.m. Ant. tart. ~· Arn. Artem.
Aaar. A.aaa. Aur. Bar. c. Bell Berb.
Bruc. Bry. CtJnn. CtJlc. c. Calc. s.
Caoth. Ctw6. v. CtJul. Cham. Cinch.
Cocc. Colch. Coloc. Cupr. Dulc. Euph.
Ferr. Graph. Grat. HeU. Hvdr. Hyosc.
I Jod. Kram. Lam.J.eJ. ~·Mar.
•c. Mgn. m. Mgn.a. Mang. Mez.
• ac. Nw: •· 01. Petr. Plwl.
POO..ac. Plumb. Pot.c. Pot.jod. Pot.
nitr. Pull. Ran. b. Rhod. Rut. &u.
&c. Sep. Sil. Sod.c. Sod.aulph. l:Jpig.
&spit. 8tront. Sulph. Sulph.ac. T~uy.
Tong; To.¥. Val. Verat. Verb. Zinc.
- in bed (ia the evening), Phos. Stroot.
Sulph.
- after a cold, Dulc. Nitr. ac. Phoe.
- day and night, Pot. nitr.
- downwards, Verb.
- in the evening, 8od.a. (Stroot.) aw,A.
- in the extenaoree, Verat.
- when movinc (exereia.), Bry. Cinch.
zmc.
Ilndirlf in the mueeJes, limbe, when
movmg relieved, Valer.
- at night, Hydr. Lye. Phoe. Plumb.
Sod.a. Stroot. &dph.
- outwards, AutJ.
- after overheating, Zinc.
- by pre88Ure upon relieved, Tong.
-when at rest, Aman. Lye. Mur.ae.
Pot. c. Rhod. Tox. Val
- by rubbi~ (friction) relieved, PlWBb.
- when aittuig, Aman. Artem. Staph.
Verat. ·
- after sitting when rising, Puh.
- in atanding, AmtJn.
- with swelling of the parte, Pot.e.
- when touched, OifteA.
- cut~, Hyosc.
- disabling, A•r. Clum. Oincla. 0>«.
Colch. Mgn. m. Mez. Sus. Sod.c. ,
- drawing, Cham. HeD. HJdr. Lam.
Pluab. Rlwd. &c. Staph. Toz.
Rmuling, jerking, Awn. m. Asar. OiaeA.
Cocc. Cupr. Pboe.ac. Puis. Sod.a.
- preaaing, Arg. Bell Bilm. Cano.
·Cupr. Cyc. Led. Rut. Sal!8. Stann.
- squeezing (cramping), Artem. Rtlt.
Sod.c.
- atingin~t, Cann. Canth. Cnloc. Dig.
Euph. Guaj. Hydr. Thuy. Zinc.
To rut, inclination, Carb. v. (eomp. to
lie down,,sit down, inclin.)
By r~lt eXReerb. sympl., Aman. Amm.e.
Aua. Aur. Caps. Coloc. Con. Dros.
Dulc. Euph. Gmt. Lye. Jllg». c.
M01ch. Mur.ac. Op. Phell Ph01.sc.
Plat. Pot. c. Pot.joo. Pot. nitr. P11lr.
Rhod. Rut. Samb. &n. &p. Sil.
Sod. s. Stann. SuliJh. Thuy. Tong.
Toz. Val. Viol. od. Zinc.
- relieved, Aeon. Ant. e. Am. Bar. c.
Bell. Bry. Cmnph. Cott Colch. Coloc. _
Cupr. Hell. Hydr. lgn. Jpec. Laur.
Led. Nitr. ae. Nt~:~: •· 01. Phos. Pot. c.
Pot. nitr. Sabed. Sass. &ill. Spong.
Stram. Verat.
Rutlemau• in the body, Amt.. An•
Asar. BeU. Bry. Calc. c. Cauat. Cham.
Cinch. Hydr. Ign. Lam. Mar. Myrist.
Nw:v. Op. Phos.ae. Pull. ScilL &p.
8il. Sod.bor. Sulph. Tab. Val.
- in bed, Mgn. m.
- in children, Ant. tart. CbtJm. JaltJp.
- - by carrying on the arm, relieved.
Ant. tart. Cham.
- by cloae thinking, Sod. bor.
- in the evening, Alum. Amm.c. Caul.
Hydr. Lye. Mgn.c. Mgn.m. Sod.c.
- in tbe open air, Plat.
- with the peina, Clam. Co.ff. A(p.c.
Mang. Tab.
- in the parte aft'eded, Cinch. Ferr.
- when at rest, Plat•
. Digitized by Coogle
t.. General and predominant effects.
~ in the body, after llitainci
Caust. ~·e. 8il. Sulpb.
- after talking and walkiiag, Amb.
Rlachitic affect., Aua. BeU. Calc. e.
Jhldr. Lye. Mea. Nitr.ac. Petr. Phoe.
Pfioe. ac. Puis. 8il. &.ph. 8ulph.
RMurutic pains and eom'plainta, Aeon.
Ant.'· Ant. tart. Arn. Arr. BeU. Bry.
Calc.e. Camph. Cann. 0.6. v. Cmut.
.Citam. Cinch. Colch. Cupr. Dule.
E~Jph. Hydr. lgn. Mez. Nuz v. 01.
Phoe. Ptils. &in.6. Rhod. SciU. Sil.
Stann.Thuy. ~. VM. Ve~~
By riding on hor•eiHJclc exaeerb., Sep.
By riding in a carriage, eympt. excit.
or· exaeerb., Carb. v. Cocc. G~ph.
Petr. Phoe. Sep. Sil. Sod. bor. Sod.ehl.
- relieved, Nitr.ac.
Right 8ide chiefly attacked, Amm. ~·
Amm. m. Canth. Ph011. Plumb. Sabad.
Sl~m. Stront.
When rUing from lying, f!xaeerb., BeU.
Sod. chi. Sulph.
- relieved, Puis.
When ri&i7t.g from bed, exaeerb., Carb. 11.
G~ph. Guaj.Jgn. Sod.ehl. Val. Verat.
- relief, Aur. Verat. .
When rUing from siUing (raising the
body in general), Ant. tart.. Caust.
Con. Nitr. ac. Pull. Sod. chi. Sulph.
Ve~t.
- relief, Verat.
After riaing from sitting, Alum. Cnrb. v.
Grat. Tox. . ·
In a room, exacerb., Aeon. Aeth. Alum.
Amb. A1sa. Aur. Oroc. Dig. Mgn.c.
Mgn. m. Mang. Op. Ph~. Phoe. ac.
Plat. Puls. Rhod. Sep. Sulph.
- relief, Arn. Bry. Caust. Cotr. Con.
Mang. Mosch. Sal!& Stann.
From running, Sil.
From •Mied food, disord., Carb. v.
For •anguinic- choleric temperaments
suitable, Nux 11.
From •carlatinasuppreseed.di.eord., Bry.
•~coriJutic aftect., .Cii.lc. s. Canth. Carb.v.
Cau.t. Hydr. Mur. ac. Nitr. ae. Nuz IJ, .
Sod. chi. Staph. Sulph.
8cNJfidou• compiaints, in general, Amb.
Ar•. Artem. Al.fa. Aur. Bar. c. Bell.
Bry. C«lc. c. Calc. s. Cinch. Cocc. Con.
Dulc. Ferr. Hydr. Ign. Lvc. M&n.c.
.illez. Mur.·ac. Nuz v. Pbos. Pull.
Ran. b. Rhm. Sep. Sil. Sod.c. Sod. chi.
Staph. Sulph. To.r. Vem.
- incapient, Ars. Artem. BeU. Cdlc.c.
Cinch. Ferr. Mgn. c. Puis. Rbm. &p.
Sulph.
- with glandular affection, Bar. c. Con.
Dulc. Lye. Mgn. c. Phoe. Sep. Sil.
Sod. c. Spong. &dpk.
- in the higlleststage, Arr. Aua. Bar.e.
BeU. Calc. e. Con. Cupr. I~.· Mez.
(Ott.) Sil.
Sea·rickftu•, Coce. (Coleh.) Petr. (Sep.
Sil. Sod. e. Ther.) . .
Sedentary life, disord. 'from, Nuz v.
Sulph.
Semen, di.eord. from the lOIII ofit, Cinch.
(comp. onanism.) ·
Senre11, too acute, Aur. Bell.Cupr. Nuz v.
(comp. over-eeiUiitivenees.)
- dilpinished, Anac.
&.rtud debauchu, bad Consequences of,
Anac. Calc. c. Cinch. Con. Morch.
Nux v. PhOI. Phos. ae. Sep. Sod. chi.
Staph. Sulph. . .
Shaking of the limbe, Cocc. Lye.Plumb.
Slwckl, electric, in the body, Amb. Ang.
Arn. Bar. Bell. Cic. Cocc. Coleh.
Cupr.Ly_c, Nuxv. Op. Ran. b. &dph.
Ve~t. ~inc. .
Slwoting )lflins, Berb. Ferr. ~· .
By 1huddering accompanied pams, Ars.
Bar. e. Euph. Mez. Ran. b. Sep.
- on the parts affected, Ars.
To lit, inclination, Bar. c. Mur. ac. Nuz v.
Tar. ·
While •itting doWn, Ant.tart. Puis.
In littifJK, exacerbation, Aeon. Alum.
Aman. Amb. Anac. Ang. Ant. tart.
Ar1. Artem. ABE. Bar.c. Bell. Calc.
Caust. Cic. ()inch. Cye. Dis'· Euph.
Ferr. Graph. Grat. Gua;. Hydr.
Mgn. e. Mgn. m. · Men. Op. Phell.
Plat. Pul1. &p. Sll. Sod. c. &d. chl.
Staph. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tar. Tong.
Verat. .
- relief, Aur. Calc. c. Carb. a. Mang.
Nuxv:Pek. Phos.ac. Sod.chi. Staph.
Verat.
After lilting, e.xacerb., Ang. Nitr. ac.
Nux v. Puls. Sep. Sil.
Between 1kin and fteah, painsseelllingly
seated, Zinc.
By•leepinea attended pains and compl,
Myrist.
In •leep perceptible pains, Ar•. Carb. v•
Grapli. Nitr. ac. Sul{'h. Sulph.ac. .
The 11leep disturbing pams, Cliam. Coff.
After sleep, exacerbation, Anac. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Cooc. Con. Graph. Stann.
Thuy.
- relief, Calad.
SluggishneBI, of the body, Amm. m.
Ant. tart. Carb. a. Chel. Guaj. Hydr.
aulpb. rub. Mgn. m. Mez. Mur. ac.
, Nuxv. Petr. Phus. Ph011,ae. Plumb.
Pot. c. Puis. &c. Sep. Sod. c. Sod.
chi. Stann. Verb.
- after meals, see See. 17.
-in the morning, Carb.a. Chel. Sod.c.
Sod. chi. Verb.
-in sitting, Chel.
Digitized by Coogle
1. General and predominant effects..
....,.,mhZU., lee See. 3.
&re p«im (Wundheits • Schmerzen),
,AeOa. Arg. Berb. Calc.s. Ctmth. Cic.
Colch. Kram. PlGt. P.U., Tox.
Zinc.
- in interior organs, Canth.
- ofthamuCOUB membranee, Me%.
- in the parts affected, Calc. s. Cmath.
P.u..
- when touehed, OGle. •· Pul1.
By IOUW, incr. paine, Arn. ·
~. in genei'al, Aeth. Alum. Amb.
Aag. Ant. tllf't. Am. An. Artem.
Aua. Aur. Bsr.c. Bell.Calc.c. Camph.
Cantla. Carb. v. Caust. Cluma. Cic.
Coec. Coff. Coloc. Ccm. Oroc. Oupr.
Cure. Dig. ·HelL Hyo~e. Ign. Ipec.
Lot~r. Lgc. Mo1ch. Myrilt. Nux v.
~· Phoe. Plat. Plumb. Pot. c. ·Pot.
mtr. Ran. sc. Sabad. &iU. Sec. Sep.
Sil. Sod. e. Sol. nig. Spig. Stann.
Stram. Salph. Tab. Tan. Thuy. Verat.
- bending baCkwards, see opisthotonllll,
below.
- by bright light produced, BelL Stram.
- in children, Aeon. Bell. Cham. Coff.
Ign. Ipec, Myriat. Stann.
- clonic (convulsions), Ant. tart. Arn.
Ar1. Artem. Aasa. Bar. BeU. Calc. c.
CampA. Ctmth. Caust. Cluma. Cic.
Cocc. O!ff. Con. Croc. Oupr. Cure.
J>it;. Heff. Hydr. Hy01c. lgn. lpec.
Ltiur. Lye. Mo~eh. Myrilt. Nuxv. Op.
Phoe. Plumb. Ran. sc. Sabad. &ill.
&c. Spig. Stann. Stram. Tab. Tan.
Verot.
- from eoekJe.eeed, Camph.
- with coldnetl8 of the limbs, Coff.
- with convulsive lau~hing, Alum. Aur.
Calc. c. Con. Cupr.lgn.
- - and weeping, Alum. Aur.
- in dentition, Cham. Ign. Stann.
- from fright, &c. Stram. ·
- with gn8ahing of the teeth, Coff.
- hysteric, Aur. BelL Bry. Cocc. Con.
· lgn. Ipee. M.lrn. m. Plat. Sep. Stann.
Stram. SulJ1li.
- inveterate, Cupr. ·
- from lukewarm water, Ang.
- in tyjng-in women, Cham.
- from mercurial vapors, Stram.
- at night, Calc. c. Cupr. Lye. &c.
- by noise excited, Ang.
- obetinate, Cupr. .
- from obstinacy, Bell.
- Opiathotonllll, Arg. Bell. Cham. Cic.
Ign. Ipec. Op. Stann. Stram. Tox.
- by opprearion ofthe chest eucceeded,
Bell.
- · by palsy succeeded, Plulnb.
- in parturient women, Cluma. Cic.
Hyosc. ·
~, periodically returning, Bsr. m•
&c. s-tram.
-in pregnant women, Cham. Cie.
Hyoac. ·
- in sleep, at night, Oupr. .. .
- by emiling preceded, Bell.
- by stret.cbillg out the parts relieved,
Sec. .
- fromswallowingliquids,(BeH.)Hyosc.
(Stram.) ·
- tonic, Aeth. Alum. Amb. Ang. Ant.
tart. Are. Aur. Bell. Cale. c. Camph.
Caust. Cham. Cic. Cecc. Coloc. Con.
Croc. Cvpr. Bell. HfJO!c· Jrn. lpec.
LGur.IAjc. M01eh. M1ifUt. Nuxv. Op;
Plat. Plumb. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Sabad.
Scill. &c. SeJI. Sol.nig. Stann. Strom.
Sulph. Tab. Verat.
.-. by the touch excited, Ang. BeU. Cocc.
&ram.
- from an ulcer originating, Cocc.
- when Ulin~ the parts affected, Coce.
- with vomitmg ani:! belly-ache, Camph.
Cupr.
- from worms, Cic. Hydr. H)"'eC.
Spamwdic affection~ of interior o~s,
Alum. Bell. Bism. Calc. c. Carb. a.
. Carb. v. Caust. Cham. Cocc. Coif.
Coloc. Con. Croc. Oupr. Euph. Graph.
Hyo1c. Ign. lpec. Lvc. Mgn. m.
Mo~eh. Nux v. Plumb. Pule. SOd. chi.
Stann. Staph. VaL
Spa~modic pairut, Coloc. Con. Mgn. m.
Spamwdic (cramping) drawing in the
limbs, Amb. Amm. c. A1111r. Calc. c.
Cap1. Cocc. Coff. Coloc. Con. fkaph.
Hyoec. Lye. Nitr. ac. Nuz v. Plios.
· Plat. Pot. c. Sit. Staph. Stram. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Tox. Zinc.
Spannodic (cramping) pains-in the mus-
cles, Aman. Amb. Anac. Ang. Artem.
A110. Alar. Chel. Coloc. Ccm. fkapb.
Mosch. Oltaml. PlGt. Rut. &c. Sod.c.
Stram.
- jerkiug, Anac. Aasa. Moscb.
- pressing, Bar. Oleontl. PlGt.
- rending, Artem. Rut. Sod. c.
- in sitting, Aman.
By 8pirituolu liquors excit. or e:xacerb.
compl., Bov. Carb. v. Con. Nuxv. Op.
SeL Sil.
AI from lplinter1, l>"in, Nitr. ac.
Spraining, wrenching, easily,Sep. &d. c.
Sod. cbl. Tox.
In the Spring, compl. increased, Aur.
Carb. v. SOd. chi. 'rox. Verat.
Staggering (in standing or walking),
Aeon. Aman. Cann. Caust. Jod. Lact.
Mar. Mur.tc. Nuxv. Pboe.ac. Rut.
Sec.Sod. c. Stram. Sulph. Verat. Verb.
To 1tand, difficulty, Bar.c.
When ltlmding, exacerb., Aman. Dry.
Digitized by Coogle
1. General and predomin~t effects.
Coce. Mgn. c. Maq. Petr. Pboe. Sep. Sod. e. Staph. &tJ,A. Tart. ae.
Phoe. ac. Plat. Sebec:( Stann. Sulph. Verb.
Zinc. By 1tretching exaeerb., Rtm.b.
When 61GJUling, relief, Ar1. Calc. e. - the belly-ache, Bell
Mur. ae. - the pains in the s&omaeh, Nitr. ae.
&.rtling, Bell. Cale;s. ·ForlUCking infants pllrtieularlysuitable,
&iffM• (imaoobility, inflexibility, tor· Arn. Artem. &U. Bry. Calc. c. Cham.
po!), of the limbe, Aeon. Ang. Am. H1,dr. lgo. Ipec. Lgc. Nun. Rhm.
Bar. m. &U. Berb. eo,. Chain. Lye. Sil. Sod.bor. Sulph. Suiph.ac. ToL
Nuxv. 01. Plat. Plumb. Sus. Stram. For IUCklingwomen suitable, BeU. J!ry.
BulJJA. Tereb. Thuy. Toz. Verat. Calc. c. Carb. a. Graph. Ipec. Lgc.
- in the evening, after sitting, Ang. Nw:v. Phoe. Pull. Sep. &ilpl. Zfue.
- in the forenoon, Verat. Bulphur, disord. from its miiU&e, Hydr.
- when moving the part after rest, Toz. Pull. ·
- after walking, Verat. Sulphur-vapon, disord. from, Pull.
After 1timulant1 used, Stann. In IUmmer, disord., Bry. Carb. v. Lye.
&i~ing (darting) in the mUSJl&es (and Fromthewn-light,disord.,Aman.Ant.s.
llinbs), Aeon. Aeth. Amm.c. Amm.m. Gf!iph. Sod.c. Su!J»h.
Ant. e. Arn. A-. Aur. Bell. Bry. - relief, Plat. Strom. .
Camph. Cann. Canth. Chel CineL. In a lUpine position, wone, Pbos. Puis.
Coleh. DiK· Dule. Euph. Evon. Ferr. - relieved, Ign. Pull.
Graph. Guaj. HeU. Hr,dr. Ind. Kram. SweUing of the body, see Dropey.
Lvc. Mang. Men. MOI!Ch. Mur. ac. SweUing ofsingle parlll, Cure.
N"ae. Nitr.ac. Nw:11. Par.Phol. Pot.e. ...._ arthritic, Aeon. Ant.•. Arn.Ar&Assa.
PoL nitr. Ian. b. Ran..:. Rhod. &.1. Bell. Bry. Calc. e. Cinch. Coec. Colch.
&p, Sod. bor. Sod. e. Spig. Staph. H~dr. Led. Lgc. Mang. Pull. &bin.
&ilph. Thuy. Viol tric. Sulph. Thuy. Toz.
- boriog, HeU. - burning, Ar1. ac. Carb.n. CausL Pale.
- burning, Artem. Bar. c. Berb. Dig. Toz.
Plat. Pule. - cold, A11a. Dule.
·...- after a cold, Dule. - after a cold, Mang.
- eoncU88ive, Nux v. - Cystic tumours, Calc. c. Calc. e.
- drawing, Colch. Dule. Hydr. Sod. bor. Graph. Sil. Sulph. .
-in the evening, Ran.sc. Sod. a. - dropsicai,Ant.e.Ari.Aur.BeU.OiRCi.
- ~wing, Dr01. · Con. Dig. Dulc. Ferr. Hell. Hydr.
-... ~erkin«, Mang. Nw: v. Jod. Led. Lgc. Mur. ae. Op. Plumb.
- 1nwarils, Canth. Pot. e. Pot. nitr. Prun. Sen. Sep.
- in interior orpua, Aeon. Lye. Pot. c. Sulpl&. Tereb.
- when moving, Am. Bry. - erysipelatous, see "Erysipelas" in
- at night, Sod.a. Suiph. Sec. 2.
- in parts injured, Am. - in the evening, Cocc. PhCIIL
- J»!eesing, Artem. A.M. Canth. Droe. - hard, Am. Ar1. Cinch. Graph. Lel.
Eup/t. lgft. Mur. ac. Plat. Sebad. Sep. Sulph. Tab. Thuy.
Sulf!~· ac. Thuy. - hot, Ant. •· Arn. Aasa. ~· Calc.~.
- rending, Cann. Canth. Coloc. Dig. Canth. Coec. Hydr. Led. Petr. Pull.
Eoph. o-j. Hydr. Thuy. Zinc. Sap. Sod. bor. Sulpl&. Tox.
- lengthwise, Coloe. - indolent (painleM), Ara.ac. ToL
-sudden, Berb. - inftamma&ory,Acon.Agn.AnLB.Am.
- throbbing, Sebad. Assa. Aur. BeU. Bry. Carb.n. Coec.
- tingling, Sod. c. Colch. Dule. Euph. Hydr. Lyc.Mang.
- when touched, Nitr. ac. Pull. Sen. Sep. Sil Sulph. Thuy.
- in the warmth of the bed, Bulph. Toz.
By 1toopins' excited disord., Aeon. Alum. - lymphatic, Bell. Calc.s. Sil.
Bar.e. BeU. Calc. c. Cic. Coec. Graph. - nocturnal, Dig. Phoe.
Hydr. Ipee. Led. Lye. Mang. Petr. - nodous, Alum.
Phoe. Plumb. Pot. e. Pull. Se
. n. - ~ful, in general. Con. Calc.s. Dig.
Sep. Sod. chl. Spig. Sulph. Thuy. llydr. Thuy.
Toz. - painleM, see indolent.
Stretchif~K and extenciin~ the limbe, - pale, Bov. Bry. Sulph.
Amm.e. Brtae. Canth. Caust. Gra])b. -ofparts maimed, Plumb.
Guaj. Mur. ac. Nux v. Oleand. 01. - ofthe ~rtsaft'ected,Bry.HyJr.Pot.e.
Petr,.. Plat. Pule. ·Rut. su-d. Sen. . Pull. Tox.
Digitized by Coogle
1. General a~d predominant effects.
&«Ui1tg ofeingle part.l!, From ~earing talk, Amm. c. Ar•. Mar.
- red,Ant.s. Arn. .Asfla- Aur. BeU.Bry. Verat.
Cak. a. Canth. Cinch. Hydr. Mang. From tea-drinking, disord., Cine/a. .Ferr.
Pul.. Sabin. Sep. Sulph. Thuy. Tox. · Thug.
- red spotte(l, Sep. Tearing, see rending. '
- rending painful, Are. Led. Tenderneaa, towards air, cold, Aman.
- rheumat1e, see rheumatic compt Amm. e. Anac. Aur. Calc. c. Camph.
- scarlet-colored, Bell. Carb. a. Cauat. Coec. Coff. Lye. Mez.
- soft, Are. ac. Mosch; Myrist. Phoa. Hhod. Sabad.
- sore, painful, Tox. Sep~ Spig. Tox. .
- stinging, Ant.s. Caust. Ferr. Graph. - - damp, Amm. c. Calc. c. Carb. v.
Mang. Pul.. Sulph. Tab. Tox. Dulc. Mur. ac. Rhod. Sep. '
- ""?.purating; Calc. c. (Calc.s.Graph.) - - draft of air, Anac. Bell. Calc. c.
Stl. Staph. Sulph. Cauat. Cinch.Graph.Kram. Pot.e.
- teDB!3, Ant. s. BeU. Brg. Dig. Led. Set. Sit. Sod. c.
&dph. Thuy. Tox. - - hyemal, Carb. a. ·
- thrObbing, Suiph. - - open, - Calc. e. Csrb. a. Caust.
- white, Ars. Calc. c. Euph. Graph. Cham. Cocc. Coff. Graph. Hydr.
Hydr. Jod. Lye. Sep. Sulph. chi. corr.
As if6100llen, sensation, Berb. - - warm, Aur. Calc. c. Cocc. lgn.
Syncope, Acan. Ant. tart. Arn. Ar•. Sep. Tox.
Bar. m. Bell. Bry. Calad. Cak. a. - to motion, Aeon. Artem. Bry.
Camph. Carb. v. Cham. Cinch. Coec. - to pain, Aeon. Aman. Am. Artem.
Coloe. Con. Croe. Dig. Ferr. Hell. Aaar. Aur. Bar. c. Canth. Cham.
Hyoee. Laur. Mgn. m. Mosch. Mgrist. Cinch. Coec. Coff. Cupr. Nux t•.
Nux v. Oleand. Op. Phos. Plumb. Phos. Sep.
Pot. c. Ran. b. Ran.se. Sec. Sen. Sep. - to touch, Aeon. Aman. Ant.s. Ant.
Sit. Staph. Stram. Sulph. Verat. tart. Arteru. Bell. Dry. Camph. Coce.
· - with agitation of the chest, Aeon. Mgrist.
Bell. - to wind, Cham. Sulph.
- with coldnt'SS of the limbs, Coloc. - - north wind, Sep. .
- in large companies, Plumb. Tendinum subsultus (twitching of the
- with epistaxis, Croc. tendons), Con. Jod. Puis. S\llph.ae.
-in the evening, Calc.e. Tox. ·
- with formication and tremor of the Tendons inflamed, Ant. s.
feet, Sod.bor. Temion, in the muscles (limbs), see
- with giddiness, see giddiness. Sec.6. muscles.
- with hysteric individuals, Cham. Ign. Tetanus, Ang. Bell. Bey. Camph. Cann.
Moach. - Canth. Cham. Cic. Grat. Ign. !pee.
- after lying down, Calad. Mosch. Up. Plat. &c. Stram. Tox.
- when lying on the side, Sil. - hysteric, 'Bry. Plat.
- in the morning, Carb. v. Nuxv. - from lukewann water swallowed,
- when mov.ing, Croc. Verat. Ang. _
- with nausea, see nausea. Sec. 18. - from noise, Ang.
- after rising u.P from lying, Calad. - from touching, Ang. Bell.
- by ~mall palOS produced, Calc. s. - while vomiting, Camph.
M}'nst. When thinking on it, the compl. worse,
- wtth stertorous respiration, Stram. Laeh. Phos.
- from walking in the open air, FelT. By thiratattended paiM, Aean.Cham.Ep.
Pot. c. Sen. By thirstlessnus (adipsia)attended pains,
-:- after writing, Calad. Lye. Puls. .
Sycotic affections, Euph. Hydr. sulph. Treading on the ground excites or ex-
rub. Lye. Nitr.ac. Phos. Staph. Thug. acerbates the symptoms, Calc.c.·Brg.
Syphilitic affections, Assa. Aur. Calc.s. Nitr. ac. Ran. b. SiL Sod. c. Sod. chi.
Hydr. Mez. Sass. Sulph.
Tabes dorsali8, M,.Ut. Phos. Throbbingpains,Amm.m.Calc.c.Carb.v.
From talking, complaints, Alum. Amb. Cham. Rhm.
Amm. c. Anac. Am. Ars. Aur. Bell. Thrusting pains, Cann. Cupr. Plat.
Calc. c. Cann. Carb. v. Cocc. Dulc. During a thunder-1torm, uncomfortable-
Ferr. Mgn. c. Mgn.m. Mez. Nuxv. ne88, Caust. Nitr. ac. Petr. Phos.
Phos. Plat. Pot.c. Sil. Sod.c. &d.chl. RAod. Sil. Sod.e. Sod. ehl.
Stann. Sulph. 'l'ingling (creeping) in the limbs, Aeon.
Digitized by Coogle
~=----~-~- -- --_
,
1. General and predominant effects. 441
Arn. Carb. v. Cic. Colch. Hydr. Ign.
Mar. Mgn. m. 01. Par. Phos. Phos. ac.
Plat. Plumb. Puis. Ran. sc. Rhod.
Sabad. Sec. Sol. nig. Sod. c. Spig.
Stram. Sulph. Tab. Verat.
- formicating (as from ants), Carb. v.
Mgn. m. 01. Phos. ac. Plat. Rhod.
Sabad. Sec. Staph. Zinc.
- when moved, Hydr.
- in the parts affected, Arn. Tox.
- - maimed, Rhus.
- stinging, Sod. c.
Tired, easily, Anac. Calad. Mgn. c. Sep.
Tobflcco smoking, disotd. from, Calc. c.
Clem. Cocc. Coloc. lgn. Nuxv. Petr.
Puis. Rut. Sass. Sel. Sep. Sil. Sod.clll.
SP?ng. Stann. Sulph. ac. Tar. Thuy.
- relief, Coloc. Ep. Hydr. Sod. c.
Torpid, clammy, sensation in the limbs,
Ang. Arg. Plat.
Torpidity of the limbs, see Numbness
and Stiffness.
Tossing about, see Jactitation.
Touch excites or increases the pains,
Aeon. Ang. Arg. Arn. Ars. Bry.
Camph. Cann. Caps. Cinch. Cocc.
Colch. Coloc. Cupr. Dros. Euph.
Hep. Hydr. Ign. Lye. Mang. llfez.
Nitr. ac. Nuxv. Phos. Phos. ac. Ran. b.
Rhod. Scill. Sep. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Spig.
Staph. Sulph. Tar. Tox.
- relieves, Assa. Calc. c. Grat. Mang.
Men. Mur. ac. 01. Plumb. Sod. c.
Travelling on foot, disord. from, Ferr.
magn.
Tremor of the limbs, Alum. Aman. Amb.
Ant. tart. Ars. Bar. m. Bell. Berb.
Bry. Calc. s. Carb. v. Canst. Cic.
Cinch. Cocc. Croc. Ferr. Ferr. magn.
Graph. Hyosc. ,Jod. Lam. Lye. Mar.
Mgn. s. Nice. Nitr. ac. Nuxv. Oleand.
Op. Petr. Phos. Plat. Plumb. Pot.c.
Puis. Ran. b. Sass. Sec. Sen. Sep.
Sod. c. Sod. chi. Stann. Stram. Stront.
Sulrh. Tab. Ther. Thuy. Verat.
Vio . od. Zinc.
- anxious, Ferr. Puls.
- convulsive, Bar. m.
- in the evening, Lye.
- after small exertion, Hydr. Phos.
Tox.
- from mental affections, Zinc.
- in the morning, Sil.
- in the open air, Laur. Plat. Pot. c.
- with the pains, Plat. Sod. c.
- of.the part affected, with retnitting
pams, Bry.
- from piano-playing, Sod. c.
- when at rest, Plat.
- when rising up, Bry.
- from talkin~, Amb. Sod. bor.
- when thinking closely, Sod.hor.
Tremor of the limbs, after vexation,
Ran. b.
- during or after a walk, Laur. Pot. c.
Tremulous sensstion, Graph. Samb.
Sulph.ac.
- in the evening in bed, Samb.
With the tw·ilight appearing disorders,
Calc. c.
Twitching of the muscles, see Muscles.
Typical complaints, Ars. Cinch. Ep.
Ipec. Lye. Spig. Verat.
Ulcerous pain, Amm. c. Amm. m. Cham.
Hydr. Mang. Puls. Sil.
- on the parts affected, Anac.
Uncomfortableness, in general, Dry.
Calc. c. Camph. Chel Guaj. Mgn. m.
Mang. Petr. Puls.
- in the evening, Calc. c.
- inexpressible, bodily and mental,
Hydr.
- from the pressure of the doths, Bry.
Uncovering, disord. from, Aur. Con.
Hydr. Sil. Stront.
Unwieldiness, Camph. Canth. Sep.
Uterine spasms, Con. Ign. Mgn. m.
Varices, Amb. Arn. Ars. Berb. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Caust. Ferr. Lye. Graph.
Puis. Sod. chl. Sulph. Zinc.
- itching, Graph.
- painful, Caust.
- m pregnant women, Lye.
- stin~ing, Ant. tart. Graph.
- straming, Graph.
- ulcerous, Sil. Sulph.
From veal, disord., Pot. nitr.
Veins see Blood-vessels.
Small veins, like red marbled, Canst.
Lye.
From vexlllion, disord., Aeon. Alum. Bry.
Cham. Cinch. Cocc. Coloc. Ign. Lye.
Nux v. Petr. Pbos. Plat. Ran. b. Sep.
Sod. chl. Staph. Sulph.
Vibration through the body, Arn. Berb.
Clem.
- after lying down, Clem.
- when stP-pping out, Arn.
For the 11irile age suitable, Nux 'lt. Phos..
Vital energy wanting, Cocc.
Vital heat, see warmth.
From a 11itiated stomach, disord. Ant. s.
Ant. tart. Bry. Carb. v. Ccijf. Euph.
Ipec. Nuxv. Puis. Sod. c.
St. Vitus' dance, Aman. Ars. Assa. Bell.
Calc. c. Caust. Cinch. Croc. Cttpr.
Dulc. Hyosc. lgn. (Jod. Puis.) Sep.
Sil. &ram. (Sulph.) Tox.
To walk, aversion, see to move.
To walk is learned with difficulty by
children, Bell. Calc. c. Sil. Sulph.
Walking, awkward, Sabad. Sil.
- bent, Mez. Sulph. Tereb.
- difficult, Cinch. Oleand. Tereb.
Digitized by Google
1. General and predominant effects.
Walking, infirm, nncert., Caust. Mgn.c. Colch. Con. Croc. Cupr. Cure. Dig.
01. Phos. Sod. c. Sulph. Dole. Ep. Ferr. Ferr. magn. Guaj.
- slow, Tereb. Hydr. Hyosc. Jod. Lact. Laur. Lye.
-staggering, tottering, Aeon. Aman. Mgn.c.Mgn.m.Mgn.s.Mosch.Mur..ac.
Cann. Caust. Jod. Lact. Mar. Mur. ac. Myrist. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Oleand. 01.
Nux v. Phos.ac. Rut. Sec. Sod. chl. Petr. Phos. Phos. ac. Pot. c. Ran. b.
Stram. Sulph. Verat. Verb. · Rhm. Rut. Sec. Sen. Sep. Sod. bor.
While walking, disord. incr., Arn. Bell. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Spig. Sulph. Sulph. ac.
Bry. Calc. c. Garb. v. Cinch. Con. Dig. Tab. Tar. Thea. Ther. Thuy.Val. Zinc.
Dros. Hydr. Led. Mgn. m. Nitr. ac. Weakness, as if from the abdomen ris-
Nux.v. 01. Sabad. Scill. Sep. Sod.chl. ing, Ferr.magn.
&dph. Sulph. ac. Verat. - approaching death, Oleand.
- - relieved, Alum. Aman. Ambr. - when ascending steps, Anne.
Amm. c. Ars. Dulc. Ferr. Graph. - when ascending, m the morning,
Mgn. c. Mosck. Mur. ac. Plat. Amb. Ant.s. Chel. Con. Lact. Lye.
Pot. c. Puls. Sep. Stann. Sulph. Phos. Sep. Zinc. (comp. "in the mor-
Tar. Val. Verat. ning" and "in bed" below.)
- in the open air, exacerb., Ars. Calc. c. - in bed, Amb. Carb. v. Con. Phos.
Calc. s. Camph. Carb. v. Caust. Goff. Sod. chl.
Con. Ferr. Hydr. Ipee. Led. Nux v. - from the chest proceeding, Sen.
Pot. c. Spig. Stram. Sulph. Sulph. ac. - chronic, Cupr. Nitr. ac. Phos. ac.
Verat. . , Sod. c. Verat.
- - relieved,Atnb. A!!81l.Graph. Nuxv. - after delivery, Pot. c.
Op. Sen. Sep. Stann. - disabling, Amm. m. Anac. Caust.
When walking rapidly, Aur. Sen. Sil. Cinch. Colch. Euph. · Oleand. Phos.
Sod. chi. Phos.ac. Puis. Rhod. Tab. Verat.
After walking exacerb., Amb. Anac. - with the disorders, Ars. !pee. Sec.
Carb. a. Plat. Sod. c. Tox. Val. Ver.tt.
- in the open air, Amb. Calc. c. Caust. - in the evening, Amm. c. Asar. Caust.
Croc. Lye. Petr. Ph011. Puls. Stann. Cyc. Petr, Strout.
Wandering pains, Assa. Mang. Myrist. - excessive, Ant. tart. Ars. Cinch. Cure.
Plumb. Puls. Rhod. Hyosc. Jod. Laur. Nitr. ac. Oleand.
Warmth, deficiency of, Alum. Euph.Led. Op. Phos. Phos. ac. Plat. Plumb. Sil.
Lye. &p. Sod. chl. Sod. chl. Stann. Stram. Ther. Tox.
- sensation of, transient, Berb. Verat.
Warmth is intolerable, Puls. - after small exercise (motion), Anne.
In warmth exRCerb., Amb. Am. Ant. s. Berb. Cocc. Plnmb. Spig. Stann.
Aur. Calc. c. Cann. Dros. Laur. Led. Staph. Verat.
Lye. Pot. c. Puis. Sen. Sep. Thuy. - - relieved, Pot. nitr.
- relief, Ars. ac. Bar. c. Canst. Coloc. - after small exertion, Cocc. Myrist.
Hydr. Stront. Sulph. Tox. - fuintish, see syncope.
In the warmth ofthe bed, I)Xacerb.,Canst. ~ in the forenoon, Sabad.
Graph. Hydr. Led. Phos. ac. Pot. c. - hysteric, Cham. Ign. Moscl1. Phos.
. Pu~s. Sabin. Thuy. Tox. Verat. Sod. chi.
- relieved, Bar. c. Lye. - internal, Lye.
:Qy warmth applied externally, relief, Ars. - from loss of juice, Cinch. Phos. ac.
Aur. Cham. Myrist. Sep. Stront.Sulph. Sulph.
In warm air, exacerb., Aur. Calc. c. - in lying, exacerb., Alum. Puis.
Carb. v. lgn. Sel. Sep. · - - relieved, Ars.
To wash onet!elf, aversion, Sul~h. · - during and after meals, see Sec.l7.
From washing and working 'm water, -in the morning, Amb. Bry. Calc. c.
aggravated or renewed di!lorders, Carb. a. Carb. v. Chel. Con. Croc.
Amm. c. Calc. c. Carb. v. PulB. Sass. Lye.. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Petr. Phos.
Sep. Sulph. Puis. Sod. c. Sod. chl. Staph. Stront.
By watery eyes accompanied pains, (comp. "in bed" and "when awak-
Sabad. ing.")
Weakness (languor, lassitude, strength.. - nervous, Bar. c. Calc. c. Calc. s. Con.
lessness, wearinees), Alum. Aman. Dig. Hydr. Laur. Phos. Phos. ac.
Amb. Amm. c. Amm.m. Anac. Ang. Sil. Sulph.
Ant. tart. Ars. Bar.c. Bell. Berb. Bov. - at night, Amb. Ant. B.
Bruc. Bry. Calc.?· Camph. Cnnth. - !n old age, A1J!. Bar. c. Con. Op.
Carb.11. Caust. Cmch. Clem. Cocc. - m the open rur, Amb. Amm.e. ·Bry.
o;9;tiz; d by Google
1. General and predom. effects.- 2. Cutaneous affections. 443
Calc. c. Caku. Coloc.- Mgn.c. Nuzv. Afterweeping,exacerb.,AndJeii.Calc.s.
Plat. Pot. c. Spig. Stann.
Weakne11, painful, Tab. After becoming wet, di110rd. , Myri8t.
- after the paiJ18, Carb. v. Sa88. Sep.
- ofthepartsaffec~,Am.Cham.Oinch. When exposed to wind, exacerb., Aur.
- by rest, increased, Lye. Plat. (eomp. Carb.v. Con. Graph. Lye. PhO& Plat.
"m lying" and ''in sitting".) Thuy.
- - relieved, Are. ac. Staph. From tDine, disord., Ant. s. Bell. Calc. c.
- from riding in a vehicle, Cocc. Petr. Carb. a. Carb. v. Coff. Con. Nux v.
Sep. Op. Petr. Pule. Rbod. Sil. Sod. e.
- in sitting, Mgn. c. Plumb. Pot. nitr. Sod. chi. Stroot. Zinc.
Rut. &d. chl. In tDinter, Petr. Sulph.
- sudden, Ar1. Carb.v. Con. Dig. Ipec. For women particularly suitable, BeU.
Laur. Nuxv. Phos. Ran. b. Sec.Verat. Bry. Calc.e. Cham. Cic. Cinch. Con.
- from talking, Alum. Ferr. Croc. Ign. Mang. Myri8t. PlGt. Pul8.
- during a thunder-stonn, Sil. Sabin. See. Sep. Valer.
- from tobacco smoking, Calc. s. As iftt~rapped up, pains, Anac. Plat.
- with the vomiting, Ant. tart. Ars. Wrenching pains, Amm. c. Am. Bar. e.
I pee. Verat. . Berb. Bry. Calc•.e. Calc. s. Carb. v.
- from walking, Alum. Anae. Calc.s. Camt. Dros. Oleand. &d. ehl. Sulph.
Carb.v. Con. Men. Phos. ae. Sod. e. Thuy. ToL Zinc. .
Stann. •Zinc. - at ni~ht, in lying, Mosch. ·
- - when commencinga walk, Carbv. Wrenchmg, spontaneous (luxatio spon-
- - relieved, Sulph. · tanea), Calc. e. Lye. Nitr. ac. Petr.
- from walking in the open air, Amb. Phos. Sulph.
Amm. e. Bry. Calc. e. Calc. s. Coloc. - violent, Amm. e. Am. Rut. Toz. ·
Mgn. Nuzv. Pot.c. Spig. Wrenching (spraining), easily, Sep.
- from want ofsleep, Cocc. &d. c. Sod. chi. ToL
From the change-of tbe weather, Calc.e. During and after writing, Bry. Cann.
Graph. Hydr. Mang. Nitr. ae. Pho8. Pot. c. Sabin. Sit. Sod.chl Zinc.
Sil. 8ulph. Toz. Verat. In tt~rong pollitiom, pains, T&raL
2. Cutaneous affections.
(Eruption~, tetter1, 1peck8, ulcers, cJ'c.)
Ab8ce8BeB, Pot. e. 8il. Sulph.
Anthracu, see Carbuncles.
Bite1, Am. Sulph. ae.
- of venomous animals, Sen.
Biting sens. in the skin, Amm.m. Berb.
Calc.e. Euph. Led. Mez. Oleand. OJ.
Phell.
Bltldder• (Biasen), Amm.m. Ant.mlph.
Ar~. Bell. Clem. Dulc. Hydr. Plat.
Ran. b. Ran. ee. Sep. SiL Sol. m.
Sulph. .Tox.
- black see Carbuncles.
Blood-bluter•, An Sec. Sod.c.
Bluene81 of the skin, Amm. e. Ar~. Dig.
Nuxv. Op. Plumb.
Burning, in the skin, Aman. Amb. Anae.
. Arg. fir~. BeU. Berb. Bry. Calad.
Calc. e. Calc. •· Carb. v. Cie. Dig.
Euph. Mang. Nuxv. 01. Phell. Plat.
Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Puis. Sabed. Seill.
Sel. Sep. Stann. ToL
- in the evening (after rising from bed),
Mang.
- itching, Anac. Arlr. Calc. e. Calc.•·
Cie. Colch. Dig. J:vph. Nux v. 01.
Phell. Plat. Pot. e. Pule. SeilL Stann.
Tox.
Burning, in the skin, alter itching, Sep.
- after mental affections, Bry.
- at night, Ar1. Cann.
- on the parts affected, Sabin.
- prickling, Plat.
- when eeratched, Amm. e. Evon. Grat.
Hpdr. Led. SiL Sod. a. Sulph.
- stmging, Bar.c. Bry. Cann. Sebad.
- when touched, Ferr. SabiQ.
- urgjng to touch, Calad.
Carbuncle,, Ar~. BeU. Sec. Sil.
Chicken-poz (Spitzpoeken), Ant. I. Ant.
tart. Puls. Thuy. - (Windpocken),
Sil. Sol.m.
Chilblain., Aman.Ars. BelL Bry. Carb. a.
Carb. v. Croc. Ign. Lye. Myr. Nuzv.
Op. Petr. Pho1. Phoe. ae. Pot. nitr•
Puu. Stann. Staph. 8ulph. Sulph.ae.
Thuy. ToL Zinc. .
- blueiSh-red, Bell. Pot.c.
- itching in the warmth, Sulph.
- painful, Nitr. ac. Petr. Pho8.
Clammy skin, Bry. Jod.
Clucking (Glueken), in th~ skin, Calc.e.
Coldnus, of the skin, A,.. Myr. Nitr.ae.
Sec. Verat. (eomp. "Febrile symp-
toms" and "exterrial coldnees".)
Digitized by Coogle
2. Cutaneous affections.
Condylomata, Euph. Hydr. Wlph. rub. Eruptiotu;burning, when scratched, bet-
Lye. Nitr.ac. Phos.ac. Staph. Thuy. ter, Pot.nitr. .
Conv, Amm. c. Ant.•. BoT. QUe. c. Caust. - - when touched, Canth.
Lye. Nitr. ac. Petr. POO.. POO.. ac. - chronic, Calc. c. Euph. Sulph. Zinc.
Sep. SiL Staph. Sulph. - conB.nent, Cic. Hyosc. Val.
- burning, Amm. e. Dry. Calc. e. Phos. - elustery, Calc. e.
ac. Tox. - copper-colored, An. Carb. a. Verat.
- inflamed, Sep. - crus~, Dulc. Graph. Hydr.!fox. '(eee
- painful (without any particular kind scurty.)
ofpain), Calc. c. Caust. Nitr. ac. Phos. - dense, Aman. Calc.c.
Sod. chi. Sulph. - dry, Bar. c. Evon. Hydr. Hyosc. Sass.
.- pressing, Ant. s. Dry. Sulph. Verat.
-rending, Amm.e. Sulph.ae. - eatirig away, Clem. Grat. Scill. Viol.
- sore smarting, Amb. Dry. Calc. c. tric.
Lye. Tox. - containing a fluid, acrid, Calc. c.
- stmging, Amm. c. Bov. Dry. Calc. s. Graph. Ran. sc.
Lye. Phos. ac. Sep. Sil. Sulph. - - excoriating, Hydr. Scill. Toot".
Sulph. ac. - - fetid, Staph.
Craclu in the skin, Alum. Aur. Calc. c: - - ~reenish, To.t'.
QUe. •· Lye. Mang. Nitr. ae. Petr. - - Ichorous, Ran. sc. To.r.
Puis. Sau. Sulph. Tox. Zinc. -herpetic, Clem. Dulc. Hydr. Sod. c.
Cyatic tumour•, Calc. e. Calc.s. Graph. Staph. To:x. (comp. "Herpes".)
Sit. (Sulph.) - - alternating with affections of the
Dermatitia (inflammation of the skin), chest and dysenteric stools, Tox.
Bar. m. - horn-like, Ran. b.
Deaquamationoftheskin,Acon.Amm.m. -itching, Aman. Amm.c. Ant.s. Ant.
Aur. Bov. Coloc. Dig. Ferr. magn. tart. Bov. /Jni. Calad. Calc.c. Canth.
Mez. Op. Phos. Phos. ac. Sec. Sep.. Con. Hydr. liiux v. Oleand. Ran. b.
Verat. Scill. Sep. Sod.chi. Sod.s.Spig.Spong.
- of the whole body, Coloc. Dig.· Mez. Staph. Stront. Sulph. Tab. Thuy.
Phos. See. Toot". Verat.
- of the parts affected, Aeon. - - in bed, Ant.s. Hydr. Mur. ae. Puls.
Drop11y, see Sec. I. To.t'. Verat.
Dryskin,Amb.Amm.e.Ars.Bell.Calc.c. --in the evening, StaJ>h.
Cinch. Coloc. Dole. Graph. Hydr. - -. at night, Ant.s.Hyilr. To.t'.Verat.
Hyosc. Jod. Led. Lye. Mgn.c. Myr. --in warmth, Cocc. Sass, Verat.
N1tr. ac. Phos. ac. Pot. c. See. Sep. - itch-like eruptions, Ant. tart. Ars.
Sit. Sod. c.. Carb. v. Coloc. Con. Cupr. Grat-. Lach.
- alternating with night-sweats, Sod. c. 01. Phos.ac. Seill. Sep. Sulph. Val.
- chronic, Graph. - knotty (tuberculous), Calc. s. Cocc.
- when exercising, Calc. c. Led. M[U. e. Spig. Staph. Thuy.
Dryneas, sens. o~ Camph. - millet-lake, Aman. Cocc.
Elevation~, see "tubercles, &e." - minute, Carb.v. Pbos. ae.
- small, eolorlel!l!, Op. - moistening, Alum. Bov. Calc. c. Cic.
Eruptions*), in general, Amm. c. Ars. Graph. Gra4 Hydr. Nitr.ae. Oleand.
Bar. c. Bell. Berb. Calc. c. Carb. v. Staph. Tox. ·
Caust. Clem. Con. Cupr. Cure. Dulc. - painful, Hydr. Lye.
Eupb. Kreos. Lye. Petr. Pot. c. Sass. - peeling off, Led.
Sep. Sil. Sod. cbl. Sulph. - red, Ant. s. Aur. Drue. Cham. Cic.
· a) kin& oferuption. Coce. Graph. Phos. ac. Sass. Sep.
- biting, Dry. Hxdr. Plat. Spig. Tbuy. Val.
- bleeding, readily, Hydr. - roo spotted, Hydr.
- blue, dark, Ran. b. - with red areola's, Ant. tart. Cocc.
- burning, Ant. s. Arg. Ars. Bov. Bry. Sod. bor. Tab.
Calad. Calc. e. Cic. Cocc. Hydr. Nuxv. - scaly, Aur. Cle1f1. Cic. Oleand.
Oleand. Phos. ac. Pot. nitr. Ran. b. - whenscratchedburning;Hydr.Sod.s.
Scill. Staph. Stront. Sulph. To:x. Verat. Staph. Stront. Verat.
*) It wu aeeuaary to make aa. alteratioa ia the arna1ement of thia artiele, differins from that ia tlae
Qenaaa etlitioa, and we presume we have. made a proper oae. The ayatematie or popular name• of uaa-
tbemataa thererore, are omilted. here, aad ineerted in the proper place aeeord.in1 to the alphabetical order,
the other •rmptome are arransed after their place, kind, condition and eonnexion, which makea it more
eaay to look for;- the •••• methocl ia obaervetl ia aeveral other folloWia& caae1.
Digitized by Google
2. Cutaneous affections.
Bruptionl, I!!Crophulous, Mur.ac.
- IMlUrfy, Alum. Amm. c. Ant. s. Ars.
Bar.c. Bell. Bov. Calc. c. Cic. Con.
Graph. Hydr. Lye. Mur. ac. Ran. b.
SaBB. Sep. Sil. Sod. chi. Sulph. Thuy.
Viol. tric.
- - brown, Ant. s.
- - horn-like, Ran. b.
- - yellow, Ant. s.
- sore smarting, Arg. Pbos. ac.
- - when touched, Calc. s. Spig.
- stinging painful, Ant. s. Mgn. e~ Plat.
Scill. SOd.chi. Viol. tric.
- suppressed, Bryon. lpec. Stram.
Sulph.
- suppurating, Cic. Hydr. Lye. Sec.
Sep. SiL Spig. Staph. .
Tax. Verat.
(!!ee also ''moistening".)
- thickly grouped, Cafe. c. Phos. ac.
- white, Aman. Bov. Val.
- - on the margins, Bell.
-yellow, Hydr. ·
b) condition.
- after belladonna misuse, Calc. s.
Hyosc. .
- after a cold appearing, Dulc.
- in the cold air originating, Sass.
- - disappearing, Calc.c.
- in the open air originating, Nitr. ac. ·
- at night originating, Ant. s.
- from pork, Puls.
- after vaccination, Sulph.
c) connexion.
- with glandular swelling, Amm. c.
Dulc.
- with swelling of the parts affected,
Bell.
- with tightness of the chest alternat-
ing, Calad. Tox. ·
Erysipelas, Aeon. Amm. c. Ant. s. Arn.
. Ars. Bell. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Camph.
Camh. Carb. a. Graph. Hydr. Lye.
Nitr. ac. Phos. Rut. Sod. bor. Sulph.
Tax.
- with throbbing and stinging, Sulph.
Erysipelas ves-iculosum, &l. m. Tax.
Excrescences, Ran. b.
- horn-like, Ant. s. Ran. b.
Filthy appearance of the skin, Hydr. J~.
Fi8tulous ulcers, Ant. s. Calc.c. Lye. Sd.
Sulph.
Flaccidity of the skin, Cinch. Jod. Sec.
Formication (tingling, creeping, craw-
ling), Carb. v. Mll;n. m. 01. Phos.
Phos. ac. Plat. Rlwd. Snbad. Sec.
Sod. c. Staph. Zinc.
Fretting in the skin, Agn. Aman. Cycl.
Dig. Led. Lye. Plat. Rut. Spong.
Staph.
.- stinging when not scratched, Dig.
Fungus homaatodes, Phos. Sulph.
Furfuraceouscoveringofthesk.in, Calc.c.
Furuncle&, Ant. 11. Am. &U. Calc. c.
Euph. Ind. Led. Lye. Mgtt. c. Mgn. m.
Mez. Myr. Nitr. ac. Petr. Phos.
Phos. ac. Pot. nitr. Sec. Sep. SiL
Staph. Sulpb. Sulph. ac. Thuy. Zinc.
- large, Hyosc. Lye. Nitr. ac.
- periodical, Lye.
- small, Mgn. c. Zinc.
- in spring, Bell.
- stinging when touched, Mur. ac.
GaUing of the skin, Amm. c. Bar. c.
Calc.c. Caust. Cham. Cinch. Graph.
Hydr.Ign. ~·Mang. 01. Petr. Phoh.
Pot. c. Scill. . Sul~h.
- in the bends o the jomts, Mang. 01.
&p.
- in children, Amm. c. Carb. v. Caust.
Cham. Cinch. Graph. Hydr. lgn. Lye.
Pot. c. Scill. Sep. 8ulpli. ·
- itching, Petr.
- between the limbs, Scill.
- moistening, Bar. c. Petr.
- rasping, Phos.
- stinging, Phos.
Gangrtena, Ars. Bell. Cinch. Euph.
Kreos. Sec. Scill. Sil.
-hot, Bell.
- moist, Cinch.
- cold, see sphacelus.
Gangrenous spots and vesicles on the
skin, Hyosc.
Hang-nailr, Calc.c. Stann. Snlph. Tox.
Harsh skin, Hyosc. Sec.
Heat of the skm, Aeon. AI. &U. Coloc.
Dulc. (comp. "external heat" in
Sec.4.)
- when exercising, Calc. c. .
Herpes, in general, Alum. Ars. Bov.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Carb. v. Caust. Clem.
Con. Dulc. Graph. Jod. Lye. Nitr.ac.
Nux v. Petr. Phos. Phos. ac. Pot. c.
Ran. b. Sass. Sil. Sod. bor. Sod. c.
Sod. chi. Sol. m. Spong. Staph. Sulph.
Tax. Zinc.
- burning pain, An. Bov. Bry. Calad.
Carb. v. Con. Hydr. Led. Sep. -
- - at night, Staph.
- - in the open air, Led.
- - when scratched, Staph.
- all over the body, Dulc. Pror. Ran. b.
- chronic, Clem. Con.
- clut~tery, Calc. c.
- dry, Bov. Calc. c. Dulc. Hydr. Led.
Phos. Pot. jod. Tox. Verat.
- eating away, Hydr.
- furfuraceous, Bry. Dulc. Phos.
- indolent, Lye. Mgn. c. Psor.
- itching, Amb. Bov. Caust. Clem. Con.
Graph. Led. Mgn. s. Mang. Nitr. ac.
Petr. Pot.jod. 8ep. Sod. chi.
- - in the evening, Alum. Bry. Graph.
Staph.
38
o,9itized by Coogle
2. Cutaneous a1I'ections.
Herpu, itching, a& night, Graph. Colch. Evon. Mur.ac. Plat. Rlaod.
Staph. SeL 8iL &aph. (comp. "''ingling".)
- - m the warmth ofthe bed, Clem. ltdaiftg, •oluptuo~ Mur.ae. 8iL
- moilltenin(, :&.. OJlc. e. Calc. a. e)~
Calllt.Clem.Con.Dule.GrapA.Hydr. -in bed, &w. Carb.a. Carb.v. Coee.
Lye. Sep. Sod.c. ·. Coloc. Cyc. Hydr. Lye. Nun. Pul..
- red, Clem. • • e. ,Mgn. a. - - in the evening, Carb. a. Carb. v.
- p8inleM, ~ Sue. &ilpA. Thuy. Zinc.
- acaly, Clem. upr. DUlc. Hydr. Led. Coloc. 9'c. Hydr. Nux v. Put.. Sue.
M.f'n,e. Phoe. Thuy. Zmc,
- wlien ecratched burning, StaP!L - - at night, Coec. Hydr. &lph..
- ecurt'1, OJlc. e. Con. Dulc. Graph. - - in the morning, Sulph.
Lye. Ran.b. - in the cold air, Spong. Sep.
- alirunk and cleft, Lye. - in the evening, Carb.a. Carb.v. Coec.
- amaU, Mgn.c. Coloc. Cyc. Hydr. Lye. Mez. Nuxv.
- auppretlled, Amb. Oleand. P.U.. Sue. SeL Sil. Stann.
- aup~ting, Ar•. Dule. Hydr. Lye. Thuy. Zinc.
Sep. Sit. Sod. c. ZiftC. - - when undretllling oneaelf, Am
- ayphilitic, H!Jflr. · Coec. Mez. Nux v. Oleand. Sil.
- yellowiah-brown, Lye. &d. c. Stann.
- yellow-acaly, Cupr. - in the morning, Sue. Staph. Sulph.
J~ion6, exteinal, Am. Art.~ - - in bed, Sulph.
Hydr. Lye. Mang. Pula. Sulph. - - while riaing, Sua.
- eryaipelatoua, aee Eryllipela8. - at night, Bar. c. Coec. Croc. Hydr.
lfff~Mnmt.lhility, Nitr.ac. .~vu. Nuxv. Sulph. Thuy.
I'Mect4ti~•· Am. Bell. Calad. - when overheatiJig oneaelfin the day-
ltcA {acabtea), Carb. v. Cmut. Hydr. time, Lye.
Kreoe. Mang. PhOL ac. &p. Sod.e. - after aeratcbing, worae, Anae. Me:t.
Sulph. PUis. · .
- - euily bleeding, Hydr. - afteracratching,on theapotaeratehed
--millet-like, dry, Hydr. appear,
- - purulent, Hydr. Kreoa. SeiiL - - biting, Sulph.
- - auppressed, Amb. &dpA. - - bleeding, Hydr. Sulph.
Itchingaen& (Jiieken) on theakin1 Ag'n. --burning, Amm. e. Evon. Grat.
Amb. Amm.c. Amm.rn. Ant.a. Ant. Hydr. Led. Sil Sod.s. Sulph.
tart. Berb. Bov. Carb. a. CaUBt. Cocc. - - eruption,Amm.e.Amm.rn.Cale.s.
Qon. Ferr. magn. Graph; Hydr. Laeh. Stroot.
Lye. M¥!" c. Op. Par. Pull. Ran. b. - - heat, Spong. Suiph.
&11. Sil. &lph. Sulph. ae. Tox. - - miliary effioreaeenee, Spong.
a) pUice. - - moistnesa,.Pot. e. Sel.
- on the parts affected, Aeon. - - rednesa, Oleand. Spong.
b) ICind. - - relief, Ign. PheiL Pot.nitr.
- !Wated by scratching, but re-appear- -....., scabs, Sabad.
ing on other spots, Ferr. Magn. - - soreness, Oleand. Sabin.
-biting, Amm.e. Cale.e. Euph. Laeh. --sore pain, S\tlph.
Led. Mez. 01. PheU. - - flwelling of the spot, Mez.
- burning, Anac. Arg. Calad, Calc. c. - - thickened akin, Lach.
OJlc.•. Cie. Coleh. Dig. Euph. Nuxv. - - ulcerous sensation, Sabin.
OL Phell. Plat. Pot. e. Puis. SeiU. - - voluptuous tickling, Sil
Stann. Tox. - when sitting, Cyc. ·
- with burning terminating, Sep. - when touched, t:uph.
- creeping (kri~chend), Spong. Staph. - ...... relieved, 7'huy. Zinc.
- by perspiration succeeded, Coloc. - when becoming warm (in bed), BoiJ.
- pungent (pricking, stinging), Agn. Carb. v. Coee. Hydr. Pw.. Spong.
Bar. c. Con. Cyc. Dig. Mar. Mur. ae. d) connezion.
Nuxv. Plat. Pot. c. Pula. sa Spong. - with restlessness, Coloc.
Stann. Tab. Thuy. Zinc. _Meule., Aeon. Bell. Coff. Pw..
- irritating to scratch, Aman. Amm. m. · Miliaria (and llimilar eruptions), Aeon.
Euph. Evon. Mur. ae. Oleand. Plat. Amm. e. Amm. m. Ant.s. Ant. tart.
. SeJ: Spong. Am. Art. BelL Bov. Bry. ,Calad.
- sore smarting, Plat. Calc. e. Caust. Cham. Clem. Coif.
-tingling (kriebelnd), Aeon. Bar. e. Hell.Hydr.Led.Mez.Nuxv.Pho•.ac.
Digitized by Coogle
- - -- -=---··- -
2. Cutaneous affections. 447
SaM. Sel. Sod. chi. Spong. Staph.
8ulph. Verat. Viol trie.
Militma (and Bimilar eruptiona), after
belladonna misuae,·Hyoee.
- in children, Bry. Cluarn.
- chronic, Amm. e. Clem. Mez. &Gph.
- in the cold air, Dule. Sa-. Sep.
- with galled akin, 8ul~
- in lying-in women, .
- purple-colored, Aeon. OJff.
- aeailet-eolored, BelL
- ~th tightneea of the cheat al&ernat·
.mg,Ctilad.
-white, Aman. An. Val
Miliary appearance of the skin (in a
room), Calc. e.
Mrmtening spotsofthe akin, &r. c. Petr.
- after scratching, Pot. e. Sel.
When the moon changes, eu&aneoua dia-
ord. inerea&ed, Alum.
Mother'• marb (moles, nmvi), 8ulpla.
Nam, arrested in growth, Ant.s.
-blue, Dig.
- crippled, Graph. Sep.
·- disCOlored, Ant. s. An.
- exfoliating, Hydr.
- harsh, Ant. 8.
- painful, Ant. 8.
- tltiek, Gr•pla.
- ulcerous, eee Panaritis.
-yellow, Con.
Nettfe..rah (urticaria), Ant.1. An. Bry.
CtJlc. c. Calc. s. Carb. v. Cauat. Con.
Cop.Dulc. H!dr. Lye. Mgn.s. Nitr. oc;
Nuxv. Petr. Phos. Pot.e. Pula. Sass.
Sod. ehl 8ulph. To.r. Verat.
- after exereiae, Con. SOd. chi.
- - or.iginatin~intheopenair,Nitr.ae.
- - disapjM'.anng in cool air, Calc. e.
Net-work of1111all veina, red, Plat.
Nodu, see "tubercles".
Paleneu of the skin, An. Cinch. Coce.
Con. (Graph.) Hell. (Nitr. ae.) Phos.
Pvb. Sep. Sod. chi. Sulph.
Panaritia (whitlows), Alum. Bar.e. Bov.
Calc. e. Calc. 1. Cauat. Con. Hydr.
, Jod. Lach. Pula. Sep. 8il. Sod, chi.
8ulph. Tox.·
Parched skin, Ars.
Peeling off, eee "Desquamation".
Petechia, Ara. Bell. llry. Led. (Phell.)
Phos. See. Sil (Sulph.ae.) Tox.
- with putrid fever, Ars.
Pk.agedttn.ic bladders, Caust. Graph.
Mgn. e. Nitr. oc. Petr. Pot. c. 8ep.
8il. Sod. bor. Sulph.
· Pimple• (efflorescence), Ant.s. Ant. tart.
Arg. Bov. Calc.a. Con. Mur.ae. Phoa.
Phos. ae. Sass. Seill. Sod.chi. Staph.
Stroot. Tab. Verat. Zinc.
- tilled with pus, Ant.'· Ant.tart. Berb.
SB88.
Pimplu (efiloreseenee), red, Berb.
- to the touch sensible, Berb.
Porea, black, Nitr.ae. Sod.c. Sulph.
Po.r, pustules, Ant.•· Aat.tart. Am. Ars.
Clem. Coce. Evon. Hydr. Hyose.
Puis. Sil. &l.m. To.r. Thuy.
Prickling, Bar. m. Berb. Ferr. magn.
Plat.
Pungency, stinging, in the skin, &r.c.
· Bry. Con. Dig. Mar. Nux v. Plat.
Pot. nitr. Pula. jian.b. Spong. Stann.
Thug. Zinc.
- burning, Bar. e. Berb. Bry. Canth.
Sabad.
- by burning 8Ucceeded, Pot. nitr.
- in the evening (in bed), Cyc. Thuy.
Zinc.
- itching, Agn. Bar. c. Con. Cyc. Dig.
Mar. Mur. &«'~ Nux v. Plat. Pot. c.
Puis. Sil. Spong. Stann. Tab. Thuy.
Zinc.
- after mental affections, Bry. ·
- at nir;ht, Cann. Hydr. Thuy.
- tingling, Bar.e. Sabad.
Purpura miliaria, AC011. BelL OJff. ·
Pua in the ulcers, acrid, exooriatin8:,.
Ara. Carb.11. Clem. Hytlr. Scill. 8il.
To.r. '
-bloody, An. Con. Nitr.ac.
- eating away, Hydr. Sil.
-fetid, Amm.c. Ar1. A~aa. Carb.v.
Con. Graph. Hydr. Lye. Sep. 8il.
Staph. 8ulph. To.r.
- filthy, Phos. ae.
- gelatinous, Sil.
- ~n, Sil. Tox.
- Ichorous, Amm.c. Ara. Ana. Carb. v.
Con. Hydr. Lye. Nitr. ae. Sep. 8il.
To.r.
- thin, Aasa.
- viscous, Con.
-watery, A~~t~.
- yellow, Clem. Sil.
Rednea of the skin, AI. Aman. Bell.
Lye. Puis.
- burning, Bell.
- itching, Aman. Bell.
- scarlet, BeU. Croc. Euph. Phos. ae.
Tereb. .
Rlaagadea, see "cracks".
Ring1, yellow, on the 11kin, Sod. chi.
llDuJrhnua of the akin , BelL Calc. c.
Graph. Hydr. Jod. Sep.
&arlat•na, Aeon. BeU. Calc. •· Euph.
Hydr. Jod.lpec. Laeh. Nuxv. P/w8. oc.
Tereb.
&urf• all over the body, Dule. Pso~.
&ruitivenu1 ofthe skin, Camph. Cmch.
Petr. Sep. 8il. Spig. Thuy.
- to touch, air, &C., see the foregoing
Section.
8hift8"lu, see Zona.
Digitized by Google
448 2. Cutaneous affections.'
Shrivelled skin, Phos.ac. &88. Sec. Ulcer1, biting p!lin, Dry. Cham. Graph.
Spots, apeckt, 9n the skin, blue, Ars. Puis. Staph. Tox.
Bar. c. Ferr. Led. Op. Sulph. ac. - - at night, Tox.
- brown, Carb. v. Con. Hyosc. Petr. - becoming black, Ars. Con.
Phos. Plumb. Sep. Thuy. -bleeding rt>Adily, Ar1. Calc. I. Carb.v.
- brown-red, Nitr. ac. Con. fAJc. Nitr.ac. Plw1. Pot.c. Puis.
- - streaks, Carb.v. Sil. Sulph. .
- burning, Berb. Phos. ac. Pot. c. Tab. - - at mght, Pot. c.
- in the cold appearing, &bad. · - becoming blue, Assa. Aur. Con.
- confluent, BeD. - boring p!lin, t-'lnch. Sit. Sulph.
-like dea-bites, Aeon. Graph. - burning pain, Ar1. Bov. Calc. 1.
- ~angrenous, Hyosc. Carb. 11. Cham. Clem. Graph. Hydr.
- ber~tic, Hydr. Sep. &d. chi. lAJc. Mez. Mur. ac. Nitr. ac. Nux v.
- itching, Berb. Con. Graph. Hydr. Jod. P[umb. Puis. Ran. b. Sep. Sil. Tox.
Lye. Pot. c. Sod.chi. Spong. Suiph. ac. - - on the margins, Mur. ac.
- liver-brown, Ant. s. HyJr. Lye. Sulph. - - at night, Calc. s. Lye. Staph.Tox.
- marbled, Berb. Thuy. - - when touched, Lach. Lye.
-moistening, after scratching, Pot. c. - carcinomatous, Ar1. Aur. Calc. 11.
- red, Bell. Calad. Calc. c. Cocc. Con. Con. Kreos. Sil. Sulph.
Cor. Ferr. magn. Graph. Jod. Lye. -crusty, Bell.
Mgn.c. Phos.ac. Pot.c. Sabad. Scill. -eating away, Calc. s. Con. Mn.
&p. Spong, Stann. Sulph.ac. Tab. Ni~r.ac. Ran. b. Sil. Sulph. Sulph.ar-
- - in toe cold, Sabad. - fetid, Amm. c. Ar1. A1u. Calc. s.
- - momentarily disappearing when Carb. v. Con. Hydr. Lye. Sep. Sit.
· pressed upon, Ferr. magn. - - putrid, Calc. s.
...:.. roee-red (tubercles), Sil. Sod.c. - fistulous, Ant. 1. Calc. c. Lye. Sit.
- scarlet-colored, BeU. Euph. (Phoe. ac. Sulph.
Tereb.) - tlat, Phos.ac. Ran. b. Sel.
- tuberculous, Alum. Sil. Sod.c. - fringed at the bottom, Phos.ae.
- turning yeDow and green, Con. - fungous, Hydr. Lach. Sil.
-white, Alum. Ars. Phos. Sep. Sil. - becoming gangrenous, Ar1. Bell.
Sulph. Cine/a. Euph. Kreo.. Scill. Sec. Sil.
- yellow, Ant. tart. Ferr. Petr. Phos. - herpetic, Zinc. ·
Pot. c. Sabad. Sep. Sod. c. Sulph. - jerKing pain, Cham. Staph.
Stingi,ng in the skin, see Pungency. -indolent, Ars. Eupla.
Streakl, brown-red, Carb. v. - inflamed, Ars. Mez. Sil.
- red, &bad. - inveterate, Croc. Cupr. Eupl&. Kreo8.
- scarlet-colored, Euph. Lye. Phos. e. Ran. b. Sep. Sil.
Suggilation, Arn. Con. Dulc. Sulph. - itching, Alum. Ars. Bov. Graf.h. Lye.
Sulpb. ac. _ Ph01. ac. Puis. Ran.b. Sep. Si . Staph.
Summer-freckle•, Amm.c. Ant.s. Catc.c. Sulph. .
, Graph. Lye. Nitr. ac. Phos. &d. c. - -;- on the margins, Ant. tart.
Sulph. , - - at night, Lye. Staph.
Supprationl, Assa. Bell. Calc.I. Ht!dr. - mercurilil, Aur. BeD. Calc.s. Nitr. 'JC.
' Kreos. Mang. Mez. Puls. Sil. Sulph. &u. Sit. Sulph. Thuy.
- checked, Calc.1. - p!linful, Ar1. Hydr. Lye. Mur.ac.
- of a good kind, Hydr. Puts. Sil. - painless, Ars. Carb. v. Phos.ac. Sep.
- malignant, ABBa. Hydr. Kreo1. Sil.. - pressing p!lin, Sit.
- in membranous parts, Sit. - psoric, Psor.
Tenlion in the skin, in the evening in - putrescent, Kreos. Mur.ac.
bed, Stroot. - putrid smelling, Calc.s.
Tingling (creeping, crawling), Aeon., - rasping pain, Lam. Sil.
Bar. c. Colcli. Evon. Mur. ac. Plat. - reniling pain, Canth. Graph. Lye.
Rhod. &bad. Sel. Sit. Staph. Stram. Sep. Staph. Sulph. .
- at ni~ht, Bar. c. Sulph. - - at night, Lye.
- stingmg, Bar.e. Sabad. - scurfY, Ars.
By the toucla relieved cutaneous affect., - sore pain, Calc. 1. Mez.
Thuy. - - when touched, Calc.s.
Tubercle•(nodes,blotches),Alum.Aman. -stinging pain, Ar1. Calc. a. Cinch.
Ant. '· Calc. c. Caust. Dulc. Lach. Cleril. Graph. Lam.Lye. Mez. Nitr. ac.
Mgn.c. Mgn. m. Mang. Mez. Pot. c. Nuxv. Petr. Puls. Ran. b. Sep. 811.
Sod.c. Sod. chi. Staph. Suiph.
D
.igitized by Coogle
·•
2. Cutaneous affections. - 3. Sleep and dreams. 449
Vlcer1, stinging pai~, in the margina
when touched, Clem.
- - at night, Tox.
- - as from splinters, Nitr. ae.
- swollen, BeU. Con. Lye.
-syphilitic, Hydr.
- throbbing pain, Bry. Cale.s. Cinch.
Clem. Sulpn.
- - at night, Calc. s.
- tightening sens., Con. Sulph.
- tingling ~~~ens. , Cham. Clem. don.
Tox.
- - at night, Tox.
- to the touch tender, Assa. Cham.
- at night smarting, Calc. s. Lye. Tox.
- when the'part becomes cold, smart·
in~, Ars. ·
- With proud flesh, Graph. Petr.Sep. Sil.
- with sensation of eoldnel!l!!, Bry.
Ulcer•, the margins blue or livid, Al!ll&.
- - elevated, Ars.
- - hard, Ara. Assa. Puls.
- - red shining, Pull!.
- - tender, .Assa.
Ulcercnu pairifulneBI of the skin, Pot. e.
Unhealable skin, Bar. c. Calc.e. Calc. 1.
Cham. Croe. Graph. Mang. Petr. Sil.
Sod. bor. Staph. Sulpb.
Varioloides, Ars. Tox.
Vericle1, Canth. Pot. nitr. Ran. b. Tab.
Wart•, Ars. Bar. c. Bov. Calc. c. Catut.
Dulc. Euph. Ferr. magn. Lvc. Nitr. ae.
Petr. Pot. e. Sass. Sep. :Sil. &d. c.
Sod. chl. Sulph. Sulph.ac. Thuy. Tox.
- inflamed, BeU. Nitr. ae. 8ep. Sil.
l!Julplt. Thuy.
White 11oeUing, Ant. •· Jod.
Whitlow•, 111ee Panaritia.
Wounds, in general, Am. Ep. Hydr.
Kreoa. Myr. Nitr. ac. Ph01. Sen.
Sod. e. Staph. ·
- from bites, Am. Sulph. ae.
...- - of venomous nniinals, Sen.
- bleeding readily and copiously, Ep.
Hydr. Kreo1. Nitr. ae. P7w•.
- burning pain, Nitr. ae. Sod. e.
- burns, Ars. Sapo.
- attended by a cutting pain, Sod. e.
- incised wounds, Arn. Staph.
- rasping pain, Phos. ac.
- stinging pain, Nitr.ac. Sod. e.
- suppuratmg, Hydr. Plumb. Puls. Sil.
Sod.bor.
Yellow color of the skin, Aeon. Bry.
· Calc. e. Carb. v. Canst. Cinch. Con.
Dig. Hydr. Jod. Nu:rv. Plumb. Sec.
Sulph. ·
Zona, Ars. Graph. Sil. Sulph. To:r.
3. Sleep and dreams.
Gaping, in general, Aeon. Artem. Bry.
Canth. Cor. Euph. Grat. Guaj. Ign.
Laur. Led. Lye. Mgn. e. Mgn. m.
Moseh. Oleand. Ol. Onise. Phell.
Pot.jod. Rhm. Rut. Sabad. Sil. Stann.
Staph.Tab. Tar. Tart. ae. To:r. Viol. od.
Zinc.
- frequent, Aeon. Cor. Euph. Grat.
Laur. Lye. Mgn. e. Moseh. Oleand.
Onise.· Phell. Pot. jod. Stann. Tab.
Tar. Tart. ae. To:r.
- interrupted, Lye.
- spasmodic, Calc. •· Cor. lgn. Moseh.
Plat. Tox.
- vehement, Aman. Calc. •· Cor. lgn.
Mgn. e. Plat. Tox.
Gaping, in the morning, Ign. Nux v.
Viol.od.
- after noon, Canth. Ign. Plat.
- when walking in the open air, Euph.
Gaping, attendetl by: chilliness, Par. Sil.
- coldness, Sod. s.
- giddinf'ss, Aman.
- goose-skin, Laur. Par.
- oppression of the chest, Stann.
- shaking chills, Mur. ac.
- shuddering, Artem. Calad. Laur.
Oleand.
- stretching and extending, Ant. tart.
Canth. Cinch. Guaj. Nuxv. 01. Onisc.
Rut. Sabad. Sod. s. Staph. Tart. at.
Gaping, attended. by: tremor, Artem.
Oleand.
- water running from the eyes, Staph.
Viol.od.
Sleepineaa (drowsiness), in the day-time,
Aeon. Aeth. Amb. Aman. Amm. c.
.Amm. m. Anac. Ang. Ant. •· Ant. tart.
Arn. Ars. Asar. Asaa. Bar. c. Bell.
Bry. Calad. Calc. c. Camph. Cann.
Carb. v. Camt. Cinch. Clem. Colch.
Con. Cor. Croc. Dig. Dulc. Euph.
Euphr. Ferr. Grapli. Grat. Hydr.
Kram. Lach. Laur. Led. Lye. Mgn. c.•
Mgn.m. Mez. Mosch. 1Vur.ac. Myr.
Nitr. ac. Nux v. Op. 01. Par. Petr.
Phell. Phos. Phos. ae. Plumb. Pot.
nitr. Puis. Ran. b. Rhm. Rlwd. Sabad.
Sec. 8ep. 8il. Sod. c. Sod. chl. Sod, s.
Sol. m. Spig. Stann. Staph. Stram.
Sulph. Tab. Tar. Ther. Verat. Zinc.
- - m the morning, Bism. Calc. s.
Clem. Coee. Con. Led. Nux v.
Phos. ae. Sod. e. Sod. chL Spig.
Tox. Zinc.
- - in the forenoon, Sod. s. (comp.
the foregoing.)
- - at ~oon, Aeon. Aman. Aur. Bry.
Digitized by Google
3. Sleep and drearrls.
Cinch. Ol Tab. (oomp. Sec.l7:
"after meals".)
8leetrine••(drowsinees), after noon, Bov.
Canth. Grat. Guaj. filulph. Viol trie.
(comp. Sec.l7, ibid.)
- early in the evening, Alum. Anac.
Ang. Amm. m. Am. Ani. Bell Berb.
Bov. Calc.c. Calc.II. Cinch. Con. Croc.
Graph. lnd.~.Laur. Lyc.~gn.ll.
Mang. Par. Petr. Plwl.ac. Plat. Pot.c.
Rut. Sus. Sel. Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod.bor.
Spig. Sulph. Tab. Thuy. ·
- every other evening, Lach.
- exceesive, Aeon. Aeth. Agn. Ang.
Ant. s. Ant. tart. Am. AI'!!. A1aa.
Bar.c. Berb. Biam. Bov. Bry. Calc.II.
Camph. Canth. Carb. v. Camt. Clem.
Con. Cor. Croc. Dig. Dulc. Euphr.
Ferr. Graph. Grat. Guaj. Hydr. Laur.
Led. Mgn. m. Mang. ~ez. Moach.
~ur. ac. Myr. Nux v. 01. Op. Par.
Phos. Phos. ac. Plat. Plumb. Pot. c.
Puis. Rhod. Rut. Sabad. Sec. Sen.
Sep. Sil. Sod. a. Spig. Stram. Tab.
Tar. Tereb. Tbuy. Verat. Verb. Zinc.
- prooeedin~ from the eyes, Euphr.
- with burmng in the eyes, Rhod.
- with _contraction of the eye-lids, Ant.
tart. Con. Croc. Pot. c.
- when exercising relieved, Carb. v.
Mur. ac.
- with giddineas, Nitr. ac.
- with palpitation of the heart, Cinch.
- invincible, Arum. Cann. Cor. Lack.
~ur. Sod.c. Sulph. (comp. Coma.)
- during and after meals (dinner), see
Sec.l7.
- in the open air, Aeon. Ant. tart.
- while reading or writing, Sod.s.
- in sitting, Petr. Tar.
- withoutsleep, Arn. Bell.Calail. Cham.
Chel. Coff. &mb. Sil. &d.chl. Sol. m.
- during a thunder-storm, Sil.
- .from weakness, Nitr. ac.
-while working,-Sulph.
SleepleslineiB, insomnolency, at night,
Amb. Amm.c. Ant. tart. Ars. Artem.
· Bar. Bell. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. a. Camph.
Cann. Carb.a. Carb. v. Camt. Cham.
Cic. Cinch. Clem. Co.ff. Dig. Hell.
Hydr. sulph. rub. Jal. Jod.Led. Mgn.c.
Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Op. Pho11. Phos. ac.
Plat. Plumb. Pot. jod. Puls. Ran. b.
Ran. sc. Sus. Sil. Spong. Sulph.
Thea. Thuy. Val. Verat.
- before midnight, Alum. Amm. m.
Ang. Bry. Mgn. m. ~ur. ac. Nuxv.
Phos. Thu,. Tox.
- after midmght, Nuxv. Oleand. Psor.
Ran. sc. Rhod. ( comp. "awaking
early".)
Sleeplesme1s, the night seeming too ·
long, Nuxv.
- with eleepinees, Am. Bell. Cllltul~
Cham. Cliel. Coff. &mb. Sil. &d.chl.
Sol.m.
- with a aenaation of refre!lbment in
the morning, Hydr. Sulph. rub.
Endeavour, jruille11, to sleep, Bell.
&d.chl.
Slee-p prevented by: agitationoftheblood,
Amm. c. Aaar. Puls. -
- ~gregation of idees, Cinch. Lye.
1'Vun. Puu. Sabad. Sil. Staph. V1ol
trie.
-anxiety, Am Carb. v. Laur. Sep.
- eyphel'l! bt>fore the eyes, Ph0111. ac.
- delirium, Dry. Spong.
- formication, (Carb. v. Lye.)
- heat, dry, Thuy.
-jerks in the limbs, Hydr. chi. corr.
I pee.
- - in the feet, Ph0111.
- - in the whole body, Bell.
- imaginations of fimcy, Bell. Carb. v.
Cinch. Cotf. Hydr. Led. Phos.
- longingforcompapyoffriends,Piumb.
~ night-mare, Amm. c.
- pain in ulcers and tett~rs, Staph.
- pel'l!piration, Ars. Tar. Verat.
- pullillltion in the head, Cyc.
- restleasness, Laur. Mgn. tn. Thuy.
- startling, Amb. AI'!!. (Bell.) Bry.
(Canst.) Chel Cor. Dule. Euph. Guaj.
Hydr. Hydr. chi. corr. Nuxv. Plumb.
Pot. c. SO<\. c. Stroot. Tox.
- tremor, Euph.
- twitching of the limbs, Ars. Bell.
Hydr. chi. oorr. Ign. Puis. Sel. Stroot.
Tox.
- visioruo, dreadful, Carb. v.
Sleeping, late, Amm. c. Anac. Ant. tart.
Calc. c. Carb. a. Carb. v. Chel. Cinch.
Clem. Con. Cyc. Euph. Ferr. Ferr.
magn. Graph. Guaj. Hydr. Hyosc.
Kram. · Lach. Lye. Mgn. m. Mar.
Nitr. ac. Nux v. Ol. PetrOI!I. Phell.
Phos. Phos. ac. Plumb. 'Pot:c. Puls.
Ran. b. Sabad. Sel. Sep. Sil. Spig.
Stann.Staph.Stroot. Sulph.Sulph.ac.
Tab. Tereb. Thuy. Viol. tric. Zinc.
'7" - every other evening, Lach.
--when going to bed late, Amm.c.
Sleep, with respect to ils nature:
- anxious, Aeon. Cast. Ferr. Op. Pot.c.
- dizzy, Calad. Graph.
- interrupted, AI'!!. Cocc. Dig. Par.
Zinc.
- too long, Berb. Hydr. Lact..-Nuxv.
01. Phell. Plat. &d.bor. Sod.c. Sulph.
o,gitized by Google
--~~==----~--------
3. Sleep and dreams. 451
8leep, tOit1 ru,ed to iU RGtUr~:
- protouud, Am.t,.t. &U. Berb. Ottpr.
Jamb. lJ('A. PluJ..tiC. PMr. Rlwtl. Sec.
8m. SOL m. Spig. Stann. .Stram.
Sulph. Ther. Verat.
- - befOre mid~ht, Rlwtl.
- - in the mornmg, Graph. Nu:r v.
Sulph.
- l'tllltle88, Alum. Amb. Anac. Ang. Are.
Aur. Bar.c. Berb. Bov. Bry. Calc.s.
Cut. Cham. Cic. Cinch. Coloo. Diad.
J)ig. Dulc. Ferr. Ferr. magn. Graph.
Hydr. Ign. Ind. Ipec. Lllct. Lvc. Mar.
Men. Mez. Nitr.ac. Pot.)od. :Pot. nitr.
Puis. Rhm. Sabad. .Sabin. Scill. &n.
&,J.Sod.s.Spig. Stann. Staph. Stram.
Sul1f.h. Tab. Ter~b. Tox. Val Verb.
Vio . tric. Zinc.
- slight, Aeon. Alum. Ant. tart. Ara.
Calad. Hydr. lgn. OJ. s~z. Sil. Sulpb.
- slumber-like (half sleep), Am. Ars.
Bell. Br>'. Calc. s. Cantb. Cham. Cic.
Cooc. Dig. Euph. Graph. Hydr. Lach.
Nitr. ac. Op. Par. Petr. Pot. c. Ran. sc.
Sabad. Samb. Sel. Sil. Tox.
- stunned, stupefied, Anac. Ant. tart.
Bell. Calc. s. Camph. Coer.. Euph.
Ign. Led. Myr. Nux v. Op. Phos.
Plumb. Pot. nitr. Sec. &n. Spig.
Stram. Verat.
- unrefreshing, Alum. Aman..Ant. tart.
Arn. Aur. Bism. Cann. Cht>l. Cinch.
Clem. Con. Graph. Guaj. Lllct. Lye.
Mar. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mez. Petr.
Phos. Sabad. Sep. Sod. chi. Spig.
Stann. Sulph. Thuy. Zinc.
Coma (Schlat8ucht), Agn. Ant. s. Ant.
tart. Ara. A11a. Bar.c. Caust. Coloo.
Con. Croc. Dig. Laur. Led. Myr.
Nux v. Op. Phos. Phos. ac. Plumb.
Puis. Sec. Sep. Stram. Tereb. Verat.
Zinc.
- day and night, Bar.c.
- in the evening, Ant. tart. Ara.
- in the forenoon, Ant.s.
- with lustreless, glassy eyes, Croc.
- in .the open air, Ant. tart.
- tertian typical, Sep.
- with vomiting, Dig.
Coma vigil (Schlummeraucht), Aeon.
Aeth. Bry. Cham. Cooc. Con. Cyc.
Euph. lleU. Hydr. Hyosc. Laur.
1~fosch. Oleand. Phos. Phos. ac.
Plumb. Puls. Tox. Verat.
- feverish, Aeon. Cham. Puls.
During sleep disorders:
- anxiety, Ars. Bell. Calc. s. Cocc. Ferr.
Petr.
- biting the tongue, Ign. Mez. Ph01. ac.
·Ther. Zinc.
- burning in the veins, Ara.
During sleep disorders:
- cliricbing the thumbs, Viol. tric.
- coldnel!ll of the body, Amb.
- congestion of the blood to the chest,
Pul&
- - to the head, Berb.
- eonvulsioJUI, Rhm.
- deliria· (wandering talk), Aeon. Am;
Aur. Bry. Camph. Coloo. Dig. Dulc.
Op. Rhm. Sep. Sulph.
- epistaxis, Rydr.
- erections, Bee Sec. 24.
- eyes, distorted, Hell. ()p. Phos. ac~
- - open, Ant. tart. Bell. Bry. Coloo.
Ferr. Ferr.magn. Hell. Ipec. Op.
Phos. ac. Samb. Suiph. Verat.
- - staring, Ant. tart.
- - the lids twitching, Rhm.
- facial musr.les twitching, Rhm.
- fearful moaning, Stann.
- flinging about with the limbs, Ant.
tart. Bell.
- glidin~ down in bed, Ara. Mur. ac.
- gnashmg with the teeth, (Aeon.
Ant. s.) Ars. Bell. Calc.s. (Caust. Coff.
Con.) Hyosc. (Plumb. Pot~ c. Sep.
Stram. Verat.)
- grasping with the hands, Am. Bell.
Cooc. Hyosc. Op. Phos.ac. Sod. bor.
Tox.
- hallooing, Ant. tart. Bry. Cham.
Cooo. Lye. Mgn. c. Rut. ~od. bor.
Stram. Sulph. (eomp. ''shrieking".)
- headache, Cham. Mgn. c.
- heat, Dulc. Petr. Viol. tric.
- jactitation (tossing about), Ars. Artem.
Bell. Cast. Cham. Cic; Clem. Cor.
Ferr. Ferr. magn. Guaj. Hell. Led.
Mur.ac.Op. Par. Phos. Ran.sc.Rhm.
Rut. Scill. Sep. Tox. Val. Verat.
- jerks (Zuckungen), Amb. Ant. tart.
Ars. Bell. Calc. s. CRBt. Cham. Con.
Cupr. Dulc. lgn. Lye. Hydr.chl.oorr.
Oe. Phos. Pot. c. Puis. Rhm. Sel Sep.
Sil. Sod. c. Sod. s. Staph. Stroot.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Thuy. Viol. tric.
- - (Hucke) through the body, Ant.
tart. Cupr. Ipec. Mez. Op. &d. c.
· Sulph. Zinc. ·
- - - m the feet, Phos.
- illusions offancy, Bell. Cham. Hydr.
Led. Phos. Stram. ·
- - of the auditory fuculty, Carb. v.
Cham.
- Incubus, see night-mare.
- laughing, loud, Caust. Croc. Hyoac.
Lye. Sil. Suii?h· ·
- - and whinmg, Aur. Cham.
- - with spasms, lgn.
- mRBticating motion, Calc.c. Sep.
- mental exertion, Anac. Bry. Ign.
Lach. Sabad. Sabin.
o,gitized by Coogle
452 3. Sleep and dreams.
During sleep diBorde1-s:
-moaning (Jammern), Stram. (comp.
whimpering.)
- motion of the limbs, Caust.
- mouth open, Hydr. Op. Samb.
- moving about in bed, Rhm.
- night-mare, Aeon. Amm. c. Amm. m.
Bell. Bry. Con. Cyc. Guaj. Hydr.
sulph. rub. Lye. Mgn. m. Mez. Nitr. ac.
' Nux v. Op. Phos. Pot. c. Pot. nitr.
Puis. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Sulph. Tab.
Tereb.
- obstruction of the breath, Calc. s.
- perspiration, sweat, Carb. a. Cic.
Cinch. Cure. Ferr. Sel.
- picking the bed clothes, Hyosc.
- redness in the mce, Arum. Viol. tric.
- reveries, Aeon. Arn. Bry. Camph.
Coloc. Dulc. (comp. Delina.)
- short breath, Cham..
- shrieking, Anac. Ant. tart. Artem.
Bell. Calc. c. Cham. Cocc. Croc. Jalap.
Lye. Mgn; c. Mgn. m. Pull. Rhm.
Rut. Senn. Sil. Sod. bor. Stram.
Sul~h. Thuy.
- - m children, Artem. Bell. Cham.
Cotf. Jalap. Ipec. RAm. &nn.
Sod.bor.
- seminal emiMions, see Sec. 24.
- singing, Bell. Croc. Phos. ac.
- smiling, Hyoije. lgn. Phos. ac.
- snoring, Bell. Camph. Cinch. Dros.
Hyosc.Ign. Mur.ac.Nuxv. Op. Rhm.
Sil. Stram.
- - moaninS", Calc. c.
- - suffocative, Bell.
- - when ·expiring, Ant. tart. Nu....: v.
Op.
- - when inspiring, Bell. Bry. Caps.
Cham. Cinch. Hyosc. lgn. Nuxv.
Puis. Rhm.
- - when insp~ring and expiring, Arn.
Camph. Cmch. ·
- - in a supine position, Dros. Dulc.
Mgn. c. Pot. c. Sulph.
- snuffing, Nux v. Sabin.
- sobbing, anxious, Calad.
- somnambulism, Alum. Bry. Op. Phos.
Sil. Sod. chi. Sulph.
- starts, startling (Auffilbren, Zusam·
menmhren, Erschrecken), Ant. tart.
Agn. Arn. BeU. Bism. Bry. Calad.
Calc. s. Caust. Cham. Croc. Euph.
Hydr. chi. corr. Hyosc. Ipec., Led.
Nux v. Plumb. Pot. c. Pull. Rhm.
Rut. Sel. Sil. Staph. Stram. Strout.
Sulph. Tab.. Thuy. Tox. Verat.
- - when touched, Stram.
- - with wild gestures, Stram.
- talking, Ant. ta(t. Ars. Bar.c. Calc. c.
Camph. Carb. a. Cham. 'Mgn. c.
Mgn. m. Mur. ac. Nux v. Phoe. ac.
Plumb. Pot.c. Pull. Sabin. Sep. filiL
Sod. chl Stann. Sulph. Zinc. ·
During sletp diBorde1"s:
- thirst, JJry. Carb. v. Caust. Cham.
Cyc. Nitr. ac. Sil. Sulph. Sulph. ac.
- tremor of the limbs, Ant. tart.
- twitching of the fingers, Rbm.
Sulph.ac.
- - of the hands, Viol. tric.
- uncovering, Cor. Plat.
- weeping, Artem. Calc. s. Carb. a.
Cham. Con. Nuxv. Pot. c. Puis. Rhm.
Sil. Sod. chi. Stann. Stram. 'fox.
- weeping appearance, Phos. ac.
-whimpering (Wimmem), Am. Ars.
Artem. Bar. c. Bry. Cham. Ipec.
Nux v. Op. Phos. ac. Rhm. Sulph.
Verat.
Sleep disturbed by:
-abdominal pains, Mgn. c. Mgn. s.
Plumb. Sod. bor. Tox. Verat.
- aggregation of thoughts, Calc. c.
Calc. s. Cinch. Cotf. Graph. Lye.
. Nux v. Pot. c. Puis. Sabad. Sil. Sod.
bor. Staph. Sulph. Viol. tric.
- - peevish, Tox.
- - sorrowful, Graph.
- agitation of the blood, Amm. c. Asar.
Bar.c.Bry.Carb.a. Hydr. Phos.Puls.
Ran. b. Sabin. Senn. Sep. Sil. Sod.
bor. Sod. c. Sod.chi. Tox.
- - towards the chest, Puis.
- - towards the head, Cyc. Psor.
Puis.
- anxiety, timorous, Ars. Bar. c. Bell.
Bry. Calc. c. Cann. Carb. v. Caust.
Cham. Cocc. Dig. Graph. Hydr. Mgn. c.
Nuxv. Petr. Phos. Plumb. Ran. sc.
Sep. Tox. Verat.
- arms, heaviness in the, Ep.
- - as if enlarged, Ep.
- bulimia, Cinch.
- burning in the veins, Ars.
- chills, Mur. ac.
- coldness, of the body, Amb. Tart. ac.
Thuy.
- - of the feet, Zinc.
- cyphers before the eyes, Pbos. ac.
- dreams, anxious, Berb. •
- excitement, nervous, Camph. Cinch.
Cotf. Colch. Laur. Jlfar. Nux v.
Puis.
- fear ofspectres, .Carb.v. Cocc.
- - ofsuffocation, Carb. a.
- formiiJation, Carb. v. Lye.
- giddiness, Phos.
-headache, Canth.· Cinch. Nitr. ac.
Mgn. s. Sil. ,
- heat, Ars. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Carb. a.
Cerb. v. Caust. Cham. Dulc. Hydr,
Laur. Mgn.c. Mgn. m. Mgn.8. Nice.
Nitr. ac. Petr. Phos. Phos. ac. Pot. nitr.
o,9itized by Google
3. Sleep and dreams.
Puts. Ran. b. nan. sc. Rhod. Sabin. Poritirm1 in lleep:
· Sil. Sod. cbl. Stront. Thuy. - hands under the bead, Ant. tart.
Skep dilturbed by: Coloc. Viol.od.
- heat, anxious, Puts. Sod. chi. - head deep, bent backwards, Calc:
- - dry, CaW!t. Thuy. f!lUiph.
- - in the bead, 8il. - knees bent, Viol. od.
- - in the hands, Staph. - kneeling posture, Stram.
- - in the feet, Staph. - legs drawn up, Plat. Puts.
- - with aversion to be uncovered, - - put asunder, Cham.
Mgn. c. - on the left side lying, Bar. c. Sabin.
- jactitation (tossing about), Ar1. Bell. - - im~ible, Lye.
Guaj. HeU. - lying mtolerable, Lye. Sulph.
-jerks, in the limbs, Hydr. chi. corr. -on the right side, lying JmpoMible,
Ipec. Bry. Psor.
- - in the feet, Phos. - on either side impoesible, Ferr. Ferr.
- imaginary forms, Bell. Calc. c. Carb. v. ma'gn. Mosch. Phos. Ran. Sabad.
Cinch. Coff. Hydr. Led. Phos. Sil Sulph. Tox.
- - dreadful, Calc.c. Carb. a. - sittmg, Sulph.
- - frightening, Bell. Calc.c. Carb.v. - supine (on the back), Ant.tart. Coloc•
. Hydr. Sit. · Dros.Nuxv.Plat. Puls.Sulph.VioLod.
- - votu.vtuous, Calc. c. Dream6:
- inclination to vomit, Tox. -of the adventures of the day, Bry.
- D&WJea, Amm. c. Tox. Cic. Tox. '
- oppression of the chest, Aeon. Ran. b. ' - alarming, still after awaking, Calc.c.
Sen. Cinch. Phoe. ac; Psor.
- pain in the chest, Graph. Sabad. St\n. - amorous, Lach. Viol. tric.
- - in tettera and ulcers, Staph. - anxious, Aeon. Alum. Amb. Amm.m.
- - ia tbe calves of the legs, Staph. Anac. Arg. Arn. Ar1. Aur. Bar. c.
- - in the sacral region, Mgn. s. Bell. Bov. Calc.c. Carb. v. Cast. Cau.t.
- - in the stomach, Graph. Sen. To:x. Cinch. Cocc. Con. Cor. Dig. Graph.
- perspiration, Cic. Sabin. Hell. H~
• .Jod. Laur. Led. Lr,c.
- restlessness, Aman. Ar1. Artem. Bell. Mg,.. c. . m. Mgn. s. Mclng. Nic.
Bry. Calc.c. Car6. a. Carb. v. Caust. Nitr. ae.' ~ v. Op. Petr. Petroe.
Cham. Clem. Cocc. Con. Dig. Guaj. Phol. PM..ilc. Plat. Pot.c. Pot. nitr.
Hell. Hydr. Jal. Laur. Led. Mgn.c. Pull. Ran. b. Ran.1c. Rhm. 8ep. Sil.
Mgn. m. Mar. Nice. Nux v. Oleand. Sod.c. Sod. chl Sod.s. Spong. Stann.
Op. Phol. P~ac. Plat. Ran. Rh~. Staph. 8ulph. Sulph.ac. Thuy. Vater.
Rut. &nn. 8tl. Sod.c.· Sod.s. Sp1g. Verat. Verb.
Stann. Sulpb. Thuy. - apprehensive, Phos.
- - in children, Artem. Bell. Cham. - clair voyant, Aeon. Phos.
Coff. Jal. Ipec. Rhm. &nn. -confused, Bar. c. Bry. Cic. Cinc/1.
--towards mon1ing, Rhod. Hell. Jamb. Sod.c. Stann. Val.
- sorrowful thoughts, Graph. - - after midnight, Cinch.
- atitches here and there, llerb. Cann. - full ofconfusion and agitation, Nux v.
Euph. - continued after awaking, Calc. c.
-thirst, Berb. Bry. Calc. c. Cham. Cinch. Sod.c. Sod.chl.
MJtn. m. Nitr, ac. - ofcorpses and departed person!!, Ara.
- tigntness of the chest, Calc.c. Phoe.ac. Plat. Pot.c. Thuy. Verb.
- tingling, in the skin, Bar.c. Carb. v. - cruel, Bel.
Lye. - of danger, Pot. nitr. Ran.b. Thuy.
-tooth-ache, Bar.c. Mgn.c. Mgn.m. -ofdeadly danger, Thuy.
- tremor, Euph.. - defamatory, Mosch.
- - inward, Sod.chi. - ofdiseases, Calc. c. Pot. c.
-visions, dreadful, Carb.a. - drPadful, Cast. Nuxv. Psor. Ran.sc.
- wrenching pain in the parts lying Verb. Zinc.
upon, Moscli. - et~eaping recollection, Aur. Bell. Hell
Hydr. Men.
POiitionl in 1leep: - offalling, Dig. Thuy.
- on the abdomen, Artem. Cocc. - fanciful, CalC.c. Lach. 'Spong.
- arms over the head, Nux v. Plat. - fearful, Con.
- Puis. Rhm. Verat. - offire, Aoac. Calc. s.
- - crossed on the abdomen, Puis. - fixed upon one object, lgn. ,
Digitized by Coogle
3. Sleep and dreams.
Dream8, of.ilying, Lye. Sod.s.
-frightening, Amm.m. Aur. BeU. Bov.
· Dig. Euplir. Graph. Hydr. Mgn. m.
Nieo. Pliol. Ran. se. Sass. &p. Sod.e.
, Solph. Zinc.
- heavy, Cinch. Dule. Laur. Nu:r 11•
. Phos. Sass. Sod.ebL Sod.s. Thuy.
- ...:.. towards morning, Nu:r11.
- horrible, Cast. Nu:rv. P•or. Ran..c.
Verb. Zinc.
- interrupted, Tox.
- full ofinvention, Lach. Sabin.
- jocose, Croc.
- joyful, Crl)c.
- loathsome, Anac. Puis. Zinc.
_, many, Alum. Ang. Ant. tart. Am.
Assa. Bar.c. Bell. Berb. Bov. Calc.c.
Caps. Clem. Coloc. Con. Ferr. Ferr.
magn. Graph. Laeh. Lye. Mgn. c.
M~ & Mang. Nitr. ae. Par•. Petr.
Plumb. Pot. c. Sep. Sil. Sod.e. Stann.
Stram. Stront. Sulph. Tar. Tereb.
Ther. Thuy.
- with men&al exertion, Aeon. Anae•
.Bry. Ign. Laeh. Sabad. Sabin. Thuy.
'fox.
- (Derry, Aasa. Croc.
- after midnight, Cinch.
-of miscarrying undertakings, Dig.
M0eeh:
- ~ish, Ant. s. Asar. Bry. ·Canst.
.s.
- ti ofquarrel, Ant.s. Canst. Nice. Sel.
- recalling things forgotten, Calad.
- recollected, Mang.
- restless, Led. Oleand. Pot.nitr. SuJph.
Zinc.
- reverie-full, Amh. Ant. tart. Ars. Bar.
Calc. c. Carb. a. Carb. v. Con. Graph.
Led. Lye. Petr. Pot.c. Pot.nitr. Psor.
Sep. Sil. Sod. c. &d. cAl. Spong.
· Stront. Sulph. Zinc.
- - when falling asleep, Spong.
- sad, RAm. Spong.
.,.- sorrowful, Ars. Gra'ih.
- ofspectres, Curb. v. gn.
- of thieves, Alum.
- troublesome, 'fox.
- seeming true when awaking, Sod. c.
Sod.ehl.
- unmeaning, Cinch.
- vexatious, Ars. .AI!ar. Bry. Cauat.
Mgn.s.
- vivid, animated, Aeon. Anae. Ar&
Bell. Bry. Carb. v. Cic. Clem. Coloc.
Hydr. Mang. Mar. Men. Moseh.
Mur. ae. Petr. Phbs. Ran. b. Rhm.
Sil. Sod. e. Sod. ehl Stann. Stram.
Sulph. Viol. tric.
- voluptuous, Biam. Coloc. Laeh. Led.
Nitr. ae. Oleand. Op. Par. Phos. ae.
Plat. Plumb. Ran, b. Samb. Sep. SiL
_ Sod. e. Sod.ehL Stann. Staph. Thuy.
Violtrie.
Dreaf118 of war and bloodl!hed, Plat.
Thuy. Verb.
- of water, Dig. Ran. b.
Watching long, at night (wakefulness),
Aur. Dule. Knun. Pu1s. &m.b. Sep.
• Sil &d.clal. Sulph. (oomp. "sleepleM-
nees".)
- after awaking once (inability to sleep
again),Amm.e. Ar& Ferr.Ferr.ID8gD.
Kram. Mgn. e. 01. Phos. Puis. Ran. b.
Ran. se. Sep. Sod. bor. Sod. ebL
Awaking, at night (eomp. "sleep dis-
turbed".) ·
- from air wanting, Calc. 8. Ipec. Samb.
- from agitation of the blood, Sabin.
-with anxiety, Calc. e. Con. Kram.
Plat. Puh. Samb. ·
-·from chills, Mur.ae.
- from coughing, Calc. s. Stroot. ·
- diffioalt, Berb. Calad. Mar. Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. Phell. Phos.ae. Sod.e. Sod.ehL
Tab. Viol. trie.
- too early, Amm. m. Aur. Dulc. Graph.
Guaj. Hydr. Mgn. e. Mez. Mur. ac.
Nitr. ae. Nu:r 11. 01. Phell. Phos. ac.
Pot. e. Ran. b. Ran. se. Sel. Sep.
Sod. bor. Sod. e. Staph. Sulph. ac.
Verb. (eomp. sleeple88nps after mid-
night.)
- frequent, Ant. tart. Ars. Bar.e. Berb.
Bism. ('-ale. e. Canth. Cast. Chel. Cie.
Coleb. Dig. EJ». Euph. Euphr. Graph.
·Guaj. Hydr. Kram. Lye. Mur. ae.
Nice. Nitr. ac. OL Petr. Phell. Phos.
Pot. nitr. Puis. Ran. b. Rut. Sabin.
Samb. Sass.Seill.Sel.&p, SiLSod. bor.
Staph. Stront. Sulph. Tereb. Viol. trie.
Zinc.
- frightful, startling, Agtt. Alum.
Amm. e. Ant.s. Am. Ars. BeU. Bisrn.
Bry. Calc. e. Calc. 8. Carb. v. Ctnt.
Canst. Clwm. Coec. Cofch. Croc. Dig•
Dros. Euphr. Grsph. Guaj. Hyoec.
Ind. Jpee. Kram. Mar. Lye. Nitr.ae.
Petr. Phos. Pot.jod. Puis. Rhm. Rul.
Samb. Sass. Sep. Sil. Staph. Sulph.
Tab. Thu.Y. Zinc.
- at a eertam hour, 8el.
- from the least noise, Sel
- partial, Con.
- when touched, Rut.
- with uneonsciouanees, Cinch. Plat.
Puis. Sol.m. ·
On awaking, disorders,- air wanting,
Calc. 8. Samb.
-anxiety, Calc. e. Con. Kram. Plat.
Puh.Samb.
- grsve appearance, Stram.
- headaelie, Anae. Rhm.
Digitized by Coogle
- ----- ----,.--
3. Sleep and dreams.- 4. Febrile affections. 455
On aiOGking, diaordel'll,-mout.h, offen-
sive, mueoua, Rhm.
· - - dr'l, Tox.
- perspuation, sweat, Herb. CheL Cie.
ctem. »roe.
- relaxation, Berb. Laet. .
- eorenell8 in the limbe, Lacb. Viol. od.
- stiffilees of the limbe, Laeh.
On aiiHiking, diaordel'll,- taste bitter,
Dry. Tox.
- - putrid, Rhm.
- thirst, Berb. Kram. Pboe. ae. Sulph.
- tremor, Kram. Samb.
- to be uneovered, aversion, Clem.
- urgency to.urinate, Ant. tart. Caust.
Dig.
..4. Febrile affections.
(Chill& [coldne11, •huddering, •hivering], heat, pertpiratlon, pul8e, thir1t*), c:f'c.)
Fever• in general:
a) kind.
- bilious, IK'e "bilious eompL" See. I.
- catarrhal, BeU. Cham. Coft. Dulc.
Jamb. Ign. Mang. Nw:v. Puis. Spig.
- eoldneesprevailing,Alum. Bry.Cant/a.
Cap•. Ep. Ipec. Puis. Raa. &bad.
Staph. Verat.
- .eonsumptive, aee hectic. ·
- gastric, eee gastric eompL See. I.
- Jieat prevailing, Aeon. BeU. Bry. Ipee.
Nw:v. Sabad. Sil. Val. Verat. (eomp.
inftammatory.)
- hectic, Ara. Bar.e. Cinch. Con. Cupr.
Hydr. Jed. Nuxv. Phos. .Puis. Stann.
~ulph.
- - m children, Hydr. ·
- inflammatory, see "inflammation of
interior organs". See. 1.
- intermittent, Ant.•· Am, Ar1. Artem.
BelL Bov. Dry. Calc. e. Cap•. Carb.v.
Cinch. Coee. Dl'OII. Ep. Ferr. Ign.
Ipec. Lye. Men. Myr. Nux v. Petr.
Puts. Ran. b. Ran. !Ill. &bad. Samb.
Sep. Sil. Sod.chi. Rpig. Staph. Sulph.
Thuy. Tox. VaL Verat.
- after cinchona misused, Am. Ar1.
Artem. BeU. Calc.e. Caps.Carb.v.
Ferr. Hydr. Ipec. PUZ.. Sep. Sod.
chi. Sulpb. Verat.
- - 11188ked, Ar1. Spig.
- milk-fever, Aeon. Am. BeU. Bry.
Cham. Coff. Hydr. lgn. Op. Tox.
- mueous fevers, Ara. Artem. Bell. Dry.
Cham. Cinch. Dig. Dulc. Hydr. Ipec.
Puls. Rhm. Spig. Sulph. ac. Toz.
- nervous, Aeon. Am. Ar1. BeU. Bry.
Camp_h. Cham. Cinch. Cacc. Cupr.
Hell. Hydr. Hyoac. Lact. Lgc. Mur. ac.
Nw: v. OJ>. Pho•. ·ac. Put8. Sod. chl.
Stram. Sulph. Toz. Verat.
- - slow (febris nervosa leota), Ara.
Camph. Cinch. Cacc. Cupr. Dig.
Hell. lgn. Phoeae. Verat.
- puerperal fever, Aeon. Arn. Ara. BeU.
Bry. Cham. Coff. Coloe. Hydr. Hyoec.
Ipee. Nux v. Plat. PUZ.. See. Stram.
Toz. Verat.
Feuer• in general: ·
- puerperal fever, with lulneee of the
breasts, Dry.
- putrid;.Ar•. BelL Cinch. Hyoec. Ipee.
Mur. ae. Myr. Nw: v. Op. Pho& ae.
Toz.
- quartan fever, Anae. Ar•. Carb. v.
Cinch. Clem. Ign. Lye. Myr. Nuxv.
Puis. Sabad. Sod. chi.
- quotidian, Ara. Artem. BelL Calc. e.
Caps. Carb. v, Cinch. Cop. EJI. Ign.
lpee. Nux v. Pot. e. PUis. Sabad.
Sulph. Verat. ·
- - aouble quotid., BelL Cinch. Graph.
Stram.
- rheumatic, see "rheumatic eompl."
See. I.
-teething-fever, BeD. Cham. ·Nux v.
Sit. (eomp. "deutit. difficult". Sec.l3.)
- tertian, Anae. Ant. s. Arn.~. Artem.
Bar. m. BelL Dry.Calc.e. Capt!!.Carb.v.
<Anch. Dros. Ign. lpee. Ly-e. Nuxv.
Puts. Sabad. Staph. Sulph. Verat.
- - double tert., Ara. Myr. Toz.
- typhus fever, Bry. Hyosc. Myr. Nuxv.
PUI.s. Toz. (eomp. putrid and nervous
fever.)
- typus anticipating, Ara. Cinch. Ign.
Nuxv. Sod. chi.
- - postponing, Artem. Cinch.
-.worm-fever, Artem. Cic. Dig. FiL
Hydr. HyOI!Il. Mar. Nuxv.Sabad. Sil.
Spig. Stann. Stram. Sulp_h. Val.
(eomp. See.~. "worm-complaints".)
b) condition.
-in the morning, Am; Calc.c. Cinch.
Nw:v. Sod.chl. Verat.
- - forenoon, Calc. e. Cinch. Cop.
&bad. SiL Sod. ehL Staph.
- at noon, Spig• .
- afternoon, Alum. Ant. e. Ar•. Caust.
Coff. Dig. Nitr.ae. Nuxv. Phos.&n.
Sod. chl. Spong. Staph. Sulph.
- in the evening, .Alum. Ant. s. Arn.
Ara. BeU. Bov. Calad. Calc.e. Carb. v.
Cinch. Cye. Hell. Led. Lye. Petr.
Phol. Phos. ae. Puis. Ran. b. Rhod.
Sabin. Staph. Sulph. Thuy. Toz.
*) Thirat ia thia part nfera oaly to '•ver; tllint ia anenl, aee leo. 11.
Digitized by Coogle
4. Febrile affections.
Ferler• ira geMf'tll:
- at night, Ars. BelL Calc. e. Carb. v.
Caust. Chmn. Hydr. Phoe. Pula.
Ran. IIC. Sulph. Tox.
- before midmght, Verllt.
- after midnight, &m. .c.
- from a cold, see See. 1.
c) conne.riora.
Fever• tJUended by:
- coldnea in the abdomen, Men.
- adipsia, Ant. e. Ant. tart. Ar1. Calc. e.
Cinch. Pull. Rhod. &bad. .
.J.... anorexia, Ant.•· Puls. Sabael. Staph.
- anxiety, Ars. Cinch. Rhm.
- back, pain in, Ars. BelL CaUit. Cinch.
Sod. chi. Tox.
- belly-ache, Ant. e. Are. Bov. Bry.
Cham. Cinch. Ran. b. Tox.
- biliouseompl, Ant. 11. Ars. Bry. Chmn.
Cinch. Cocc. Dig. lgn. Nu:x: v. Puis.
- blood, agitation of, Are. Bov. Ferr.
MOI!Cb. Pbos. Phoe. ae. Sass. Sep.
Staph. Sulpb. .
- - towards the head, Ferr.
- blood-spitting, Myr. ·
- blood-v81!8els, distention of, AL Cinch.
Ferr.
- - throbbin~ in, BelL
- bones, pain m, Puis. Sod. ehl
- brain, paralytic affection of, Ars. Lye.
- breast, swelling of, Puis.
- breathi short, Ferr. Zinc.
- - bot, Zinc.
- bulimia, Artem. Cinch. Phos.
...;,. carphologia, Are. Jod. Op. Phos.
, Phos. ac. SuiJ.Ih. Tox.
- chest, op,Pre88lon of, Bry. Ipee.
::;- - ~in m, Aeon. A.rs. Bry. Calad.
Cinch. Ipee. Pot. c. Sabael.
- coma, Ant. tart. Op.
- constipation, Bell. Cocc. Nux v. Staph.
Verat.
- coryza, Calad. Tox. .
- cough, Bry. Calc. c. Cinch.Om. Ipee.
Pot.c. Sabad.
- - with vomiting, Bry.
- countenance, pale, Puis. Tox.
- - yellow, Sod. chi. Tox.
- deliria, Aeon. Ans. Artem. Bell. Bry.
Calc. c. Cham. Cinch. Dulc. Hyo1c.
Jgn. Nux v. Op. Phos. ae. Plat. Samb.
Stram. Sulph. Verat.
- diarrhrea, Ant. e. Arn. Ars. Bry.
Caps. Nu:x: v. Rut. &d chl. Tereb.
Thuy. Tox. Val: Verat.
- dizziness (Eingenommenheit,Dumm-
lichkeit), Ang. Bry. Caps. Ipee. Rut.
Val. Verat.
- dysecoia, Tox.
- ears, buzzing in, ArB.
- - pain in, Calad.
- eructation, Ant. s.
I
Fnn-• Gtteratled btl:
- eyes, painful, Led. Rhod.
- fuca, bloated, Lye.
- - about the eyes, Ferr.
- feet, cold, Rhod.
- flinging about ·.vitb the limbs, Bell.
- din~ng about and raging, Bell.
- gapmg, Nux v. ·
- gastric compl. Ant. •· Cham. Cocc.
1~ lpec. Nu:x: 11. Puis. Sabad. Tox.
- gtddiness, Are. Cinch. Nux v. Verat.
- bleeding of the gums, Staph.
- headat'he, Ang. Are. Bell. Bry. Calc. e.
Cinch. Droe. Graph. Hell. Led. Maog.
Mez. Nuxv. Petr. Pot. c. Rut. Sep.
&d. chl. Tar.
- heat in the bead, Rhod.
- hooping-cough, Pot. c.
- jaundi~, To,x.
- Jerks, Tox.
- JOints, painiu, Hell
- legs, soreness in, Pot. nitr.
- lirilbs, pait;ifulness of the, Ars. BelL
Bry. Cmch. Hell. Lye. N1L'\: v. Phos.
Pot. nitr. Sep. Sulph. Tox.
- - soreness in, Rhod.
- liver, pains in, Are. Cinch.
- loathing offood, Amm. c. Ant. s. Ars.
Ipee. Pot. e. Rhm.
- to lie down, necessity, Bry. Calc.c.
Dros.
- micturition, painful, Cham.
- mouth, dryness of, Thuy.
- nausea, Ant. s. Bry. !pee. Sep. Verat.
- nettle-rash, Tox.
- nose, pain in, Rhod.
- - obstruction, Sulph.
- - scabs in, Sulph.
- otalgia, Calad.
- pains intoJerable, Ars. Cham. C(df.
- palpitation of the heart, AL Jfydr.
Sass. Sep. Spig. Sulph. Tox.
- pit of the stomach, pain in, Tox.
- pupils contracted, Arn.
- rattling in the throat, Myr.
- restlessness, Ars.
- scorbutic compl., Staph.
- shrieking, Bell
- sighing, Bry. Ipec.
- sk:in, burning in, Petr.
- sleepinea and slet>p, Ant. tart. Ars.
CaliJd. Myr. Op. .
- sleeplessness,Cinch. Pule; Rhod.Tox.
- stomach, pain in, Sabad.
- submaxillary ~lands swollen, Calad.
- sweat predoDUnant, &mb.
- taste, b1tter, Ant.a.Are. Calc. e. Cinch.
Puis. -
- - putrid, Puis. Staph.
- thirst, in general, AL Am. Ar•. Bry.
Calad. Cap~. Nt!.Z "· Rut. &d. chl.
Tereb. Thuy. Tox. Val. Verllt.
Digitized by Coogle
4. Febrile affections. 451
Fewr• attended 6g: ·
- thintlelllmess, see adipsia.
- throat, inflammation of, Con.
- throbbing sene. through the body,
Zinc.
- to~ furred, Ant.'·
- - , Sod. chl.
- - w 'te, Myr. .
- tremor, Ars. Zinc.
-unconsciousness, Arn. BeU. Coce;
HeU. Hvosc. Mur. GC. Op. Pho6.ac.
&d. chl: Strmn..
.- urine, da;rk, Sep. Venn.
- - offensive and brown, Sep.
- •omiting, Ant.'· Ars. Artem. Calc.e.
Cinch. Ign. lpec. Lye. Puis. Stram.
- - of bile, Ant.I. Ars. Cham. Cinclt.
· Ign. NtU:v.
- - mucous, Ign. Puis.
- - 110ur, Lye. ·
--of what bas been eaten, Artem.
Ferr.Jgn.
- to vomit, inclination, Cham. Droe.
Verat.
- weakness, An Cinch. Ferr. Hydr.
]pee. Puis. &bad. Sod. chl. likltph.
Vierat. .
Fewer• precelH by (~ ..Uir):
- pain in the back, An. lpee. ·
- belly-ache, Art.
- bones, pain in, Am. Carb. v. Pot.nitr.
Sod. chi.
- chest, pain in, Anr.
- coldness (before ~he chills), Sulph.
- complaints in general, Ar•. Cinch.
- feet, cold, Carb. v.
- flaccidity, lpec.
- EE'ng, Ars.
- . dinesa, Ars. Bry.
- eadache, Ars. Dry. Cub.v. Pot.nitr.
- limbe, pain in, Artem. Bry. Carb.v.
Sulph.
- nails blue, Cocc.
- shuddering (before chill&), Dry. Cocc.
....... stretching and extending, Ars. Dry;
Carb. v. l_pec.
- stupefactaon, Ars. '
- syncope, Ars.
· - taste, bitter, Calc.s.
- thirst, Am. Caps. Cinch. Noxv. Puis.
Sulph.
- tooth-ache, Carb. v.
- uncomfortableness, lpec.
- to vomit, inclin., Artem.
- weakness, Sod.chi.
Fever• tucceeded by (termiMting teith):
- coldness, Verat.
- dreams, frightful, Ars. .
- headache, Ars. Calc. s. Carb. v.
- perspiration, Art.
- Sleep, Are.
Fewr1tucoeeded by (termintltift8 tOith):
- thirst, Ant. s. Ara Cinch. Nux v.
Sod.chi.
- •omiting, Artem. Cale.s. Cinch.
CAiUt, coldne••• thtMldering,
lhivering.
Chilli (Frost)'in genertJl, Aeth. Alum.
Amb. Anac. Ant. tart. Arg. Arn.
Asar. Berb. Bry. Calc. e. Calc. ' ·
Cann. Oaf'•· Cinch. Cocc. Coloc. Con.
Cycl. Dros. Euph. Evon. Guaj. Hydr.
Hydr. clt.l. corr. LAm. Led. Mgn. m. ·
Mgn. s. Mang. Me~. Mur. ac. Myr.
Nu:n. OL Petr. PheH. Phoe. Pho1. ac.
Pot. jod. Pot. nitr. PulL Rut. &bad.
Sabin. Samb.Sass.SeJJ. Sod.c.Sod.chl.
Sod. s. Spong. ~taph. 8ulplt.. Tar.
Ther. Verat.
Cl&illl,
a) place,
look to the single organs.
b) kind.
- external, Dig. Hydr. Zinc.
-flying, Bar.c. Cham.
- internal , Agn. An.llC. Cole. c. HeH.
Hydr. Sod. chi. ·
- onesided, Lye. Sod.c. Thuy.
- shaking, Aeon. Aman. Amm. e. Anac.
Bell. Berb. Bry. CamiJb. Canth. Cast.
Cinch. Cocc. Ferr. Hell. Ign. Jod.
Laur. Mang. Mur. ac. Nux v. Petr.
PhelL Pho.. ac. Semb. Sod. s. Stram.
Th.r. Verat.
c) condition.
- in the morning, Calc. c. Graph. Phos.
Sod. s. Spig. Tber. Tbuy.
- - forenoon, Amb. Cop. Guaj. Stann.
Stront.
--afternoon, Arg. Are. Dry. Dig.
- - evf'niBg, Aeon. Amm.c. Amm. m.
Am. Are. Bov. Calc. •· Carb. a.
Carb. v. Cham. Cocc. Cycl Dulc.
Ferr. Graph. Guaj. Hydr. Kram.
Lye. Man. c. Mgtt. m. Man. s.
Mang. Mar. Nitr. ac. NtU:v.'Petr.
Plo.. Phos. ac. Pot. c. Pot. nitr.
Pull. Samb. Sep. Sod. s. Stann.
Stroot. Thuy. To.r.
---in bed, Alum. Amm.c. Bov.
Carb.a. Ferr. Mur.ac. Nuxv.
. Phot.
- - - every other day, Lye.
- - - with the pains, Puh.
- - at night; Alum. Arg. Bov. Carb.v.
Canst. Ferr. Jlvdr. Mgn.s. Mur. ac.
Nuz v. Sod. s. Staph. Thuy.
- - after midnight, Thuy.
- - day and night, Sass.
- from anger, Nux v. Bry.
- in bed, Alum. Amm. c. BoT. Carb. a.
Ferr. Laur. Nux v. Plu».
39
•
Digitized by Coogle
4. Febrile a1fections.
Claill6, in bed, relieved, Mgn. m. Mgn.s.
- after a cold, Lye. Sep•.·.
- before dinner, Berb.
- after drinking, Ars. Caps. Cinch.
Nuxv. Verat.
- after epileptic paroxysms, Cupr.
- when exercismg, Hydr. chl. corr.
Nw:v. Sil Spig. Tox.
- after exercise, Nuxv.
- by heat, artiftcial, relieved, Cor.
- during meals, Euph. Ran. ac. (comp.
Sec.I7.)
- after meals (dinner) relieved, Amb.
- in the open air, Aman. Calc. •· Hydr.
chl corr. Mosch. Myr. Nw:tJ. Petr.
Plat. Sen. Tox.
- with the pains, Ars. Bry. Graph. Led.
Lye. Mez. PW.. Sod.chi.
- after the pains, Pot. c.
- when rising from stooping, Hydr.chl
corr.
- in a room, Ars. (comp. warmth of a
stove.)
- after sleep, Brr.
- when uncovenng, Aman. Bell. Cor•..
- while walking in the open air, Hydr.
chl.corr.
- after a walk, Sod.s.
--in the open air, Nw:v.
-in the warmth of a stove, Alum.
Anac. Artem. Bov. Dulc. Guaj. Hydr.
Jod. Lam. Laur. Rut. ·
- from weakness in the legs, Sen.
- when becoming wet, Sep.
d) conne.rion.
Chills and 1huddering (Schauder) at-
tended byt
- abdominal pains, Bov. Calad. Cinch.
Ep. Hydr. chi. corr. Pula.
- - coldness, Ars. Phos. ac.
- adipsia, Aman. Anac. Ars. Artem.
Aur. Berb. Calc. c. Carb. v. Cinch.
Coloc. Cycl. Dros. Euph. Guaj~ Hell.
Lam. Mang. Mur. ac. Nw: v. Phos.
Phos. ac. Pot. nitr. Puls. Sabad.
Sod. c. Sod. chi. Sod. s. Sulph. Thuy.
- auxiety, Ars. Caps. Cinch. Nux v.
Verat.
, - back, pains in, Are. Bell Caps. Caust.
~n. Verat.
- blood, congest. to the head, Cinch.
- bones, pains in, Sabad. Sod.chl
- breathing, difficult, Are. Sen. Sod.chi.
Zinc.
- - wheezing, Calad.
- chattering with the teeth, Calc. s.
Camph. Nuxv. Plat. Sod.s. Tab.
- chest, opyression of; Ars.
- - pain m, Ars. Sabad. Sen.
- coryza, Calad.
- cough, spasmodic, Sabad.
CAill6 and Bhuddering llttefttkd by:
- countenance pale, Ant. tart. Artem.
Camph. Cantil. Cinch. Myr. PuZ.,
- - red, Aeon. Ars. Dry. Cham. CiD.cb.
lgn. Lye.
- - yellow, Ign. Sod. s.
- diairhrea, Phos.
- ear-ache, Grall~
-ear-flap, heat ui, Aeon.
- eructation, Tox.
- eyes, pain in, Sen. ' ..
- fiice, coldness of, Ipec. Petr. Sod. c.
--heat in,.Acon. Aman. Anac. BelL
Berb. Calc,c. Cham. Cinch. Coloc.
Dros. Euph. Hydr. Lye. Rut.
Sabad. Sen. Sod. c.
- - tension, Bar. e.
- feet, coldness of, Berb. Calc. s. Samb.
- - heat in, Calad.
- - pain in, Cop.
- 1infl'er&, torpor, Stann.
- flu1ds, disgusting, Hell.
- forehead, heat in, Aeon. Cinch~ Sod.s.
--perspiration on, Dry. Dig• .
- gapmg, Ars. Artem. Calad. Caust.
Laur. Mar. Mur. ac. Oleantl. Par.
Phos. Sil. Sod. chi. Sod.s. Thuy1
- giddiness, Puis. Tox. Verat.
-goose-skin, Bar. c. Canth. ~ll. Laur.
Par. Sabin. Verat. , ·.. ., ·.
- hair bristling, Bar.c. Men. , ; , ,
- hands, blue, Nuxv. . - :'
- --, cold, Agn. Aman. ·CaJc. s.,Dros.
Euph. Petr. Phos. ac;,-Sod.,o. , .
- - heat in, Sabad. Sod. c. ~ s. :
- ...- torpid (deadness), Sep. .
- headache, Aeon. Anac. Ant. tart. Ars.
Artem. Berb. Bry. Caps. Cor. Dros.
Graph. Mang. Mez. Petr. Puis. Sen.
Sep. Sod. chl. Tox.
- head, externally painful, Hell.
- - heat in it, Aeon. Am.. Berb. Bry.
Mang. Sod. e. Verat.
- - - burnin~, Am. V~J."at.
- - throbbing m, Sen. , ·
L ill humor, Anac. Cape. .
- joints, pain in, Hell.
- legs, disabled, Ign. .
- limbs, b@QlUJibed, Nw: •·
- - co~ of, Caps.
- ....... hea-yy;;yt~ ,
.... - pain in, Aeon. Ar&. Bell. Bry.
Caps. Hell. Hydr. sulph. rub. Lye.
(Pqt. nitr.) Puis. Sab&d
. • To:x•.
- - shaking of, Bell &bad. , .
- - sorenesa in, Bell. · ,.
- - twitching of, Stram.
- liver, pain in, Ars. Cinch.
-loathing offood and drink, Bry.
- to ~e down, necessity, Dros. 'ther•.
-mouth, dry, Berb. Thuy.
- m118Cles, tremor in, Oleand.
Digitized by Google
.t. Febrile affections. · 459
Chilli twl •A~ attended by:
- nails, blue, Aur. Cocc. Nuxv.ltetr.
- na1lll88, Artem. Bell. Sep. Verat.
- - with inclination to vomit, Are.
Aur. Sablld. Tox.
·- \i:~Y8DIS of pain, Ar•. Pot. nitr.
- pers!iraUon (sweat), Ar•. .
- restte.nees, .Anac• .Ars.
- li&Cral region, pain in, Ars. Nuxv.
Verat.
- I!ICrobiculua, pain in, Ars.
- eeJUJitivenel!ll to cold, Cycl.
- sight, obscuration, BelL Cic. Babin.
- sJUn, blue, Nuxv. •
- - hot, Cocc.
- - painful, Nuxv.
- - stinging, Samb.
- - tingling, Samb.
- sleepineae and sleep, Aetb. Amb.
Ant. tart. Sod. chi. Ther.
- spitting out saliva, Caps. Tox.
- staggering, Caps.
- stretching and extending, Are. Bry.
lpec. Mur.ac. Sod.s.
- stu~fiwtion, Puis. Sod. chL
- swelling- of the spleen, Caps.
- taste, b1tter, Ars. Calc. e.
- - insipid, Aur.
- tenesmus, Hydr. chL corr.
- thirst, Aeon. Am. Artem. na.. Bruc.
Bry. Calad. Calc. c. Calc. e. Cann.
Cap•. Car6.11. Cham. Cinch. Cor. Ep.
Jamb. Ign. Ipec. Mgn. s. Mes. Nwcv.
Pot.e. Pot.joo. Pot. nitr. ~P· Sod.chL
Sod. s. Stann. Sulph. Thuy. Tox.
Verct.
- thirstleuneee, see adipsia.
- throbbing through the whole body,
Zinc.
- - in the head, Sen.
- tooth-ache, Graph. Pot. e. Tox.
- tremor, Agn. Anac. Ant. tart. Artem.
Cocc. Con. Mar. Per. Plat. Zi~~c.
- uncomfortablenesa, Cann.
- to vomit, inclination, Ars. Aur. &iHML.
Tox.
- vomiting,bile, Ars. Artem. Cineb.lgn.
- - mueu.e, Caps. Ign. Puis.
- - what has been eaten, I,rn.
- weakness, Carb. v. Cauat. Lam.
Chilli and •Auddering IUCC«ded by (ter·
minating tDith): '
- feet, coldnea, Petr.
- sleep, Are.
- thirilt, Cinch. Droll. Pule. 8ebad.
Thu1.
- vomiting, 10ur, Lye.
- weaknet~~, Am
Clrillinu• (FI'OIItigkeit), Alum. AtM11.
Anac. Ant. tart. Bar. c. Bruc. Dry.
Calc.c. Carb... Cari."· Cut. c-It.
CAel. Cic. Euphr. Ferr. magn. Grat.
Hydr. chi. corr. Kram. Laur. Lye.
Mar. Men. Mez. Moeeh. Nitr. ac. OJ.
Par. Petr. Phos. ac. Plumb. Pul6.
Scill. Sil. &d.chl. Sulpll. Tab. Viol.
tric.
CAiUi~~e••• on the left side of the breast,
Ferr.magn.
- in damp weather, Ferr. magn.
CAiUy •llivering (Frosteln), Ago. Canth.
Coec. Coft: Dule. Ferr. magn. Guaj.
Hell. Mar. Myr. Par. Phoe. Plat.
Ran.sc. Sabad. Sen. Sep. Sod.s. Spig.
Stann. Thuy. Zinc.
.Coldneu in general, Aeth. Ant. tart. Ar•.
Asar. Aur. Bry_.Camph. Cann. Cantil.
Carb.v. Cap•. Cham. CheL Cic. Cinch.
Coloc. Con. Cure. Cyel. ])W. Dulc.
Ep. Euph. Hell. Hydr. Jamb. lgn. Jod.
lpec. Lacb. Laur. Le'd. Lye. Mes.
Nice. Nitr. ae. Nwc v. Ol. Op. Par.
Phos. Plumb. Pot.jod. Pot. nitr. Pula.
Ran. Rut. &bad. &.•. Sec. Sep.
Sod. bor. &d.chl. &d.•. &ram. Tab.
, Thuy. Verat. Verb.
- of the limbs, Aetb. Ar•.·BeD. eam,A.
Carb. a. Carb. "· Cic. Coloc. Cure.
Dig. HeU. Hydr. Hyoec. Ipec. Laur.
Led. Lye. Mez. Op. P1e0n. Plumb.
Puis. Scill. &c. Sod. ehL Stram.
Verat. Verb.
Coldne••• aensation of, Cocc. Mosch.
Phos.ae. Sulpb. Tart.ae.
a) place,
look to the single organa.
b) kind.
- inward, Par. Sod. s. Thuy.
- tlyin~, Hydr.
- ones1ded, Di~.
c) conditwn.
Coldneu occaionecl:
- in the morning, Sod. s.
- - forenoon, Cop.
- at noon, Ran. b. ·
- in the afternoon, Rtm. Pot. nitr.
&d.bor.
- in the evening, AIIUII. m. Dry. Dulc.
Petr. Sod. e. Tart.ac. Tox.
--in bed, Bry. Tart.ac.
- at night, Amb. Sod. e. Tart.ac.Thuy.
- b1 affection of internal organa, Euph.
- after meals, Rim. b. (comp. Sec.17.)
- in the open air, Laur.
- after Wlilking, Sod. e.
- in the warmth ofa .aove, Dule. Rut.
cl)connezion.
Coldnu• attencled and eueceeclcd by: see
Chilli.
~ . (•Aiverirag) [Schauder] in
~=aT, Anac. Arg. Ara. Artem.
•Bar. c. Bell. Caliul. Calc.s. Cann.
Cast. Cham. CheL Cinch. Con. Euph.
o;g,r,zed by Coogle
460 .t. Febrile affections. l
Evon. Ferr. Guaj. Hydr. Hydr. cbl
eorr. Hy08C. /Jln.Jpu. Kram. Laur.
Led. Mgn. e. Men. Moech. Nux T.
Ole-a. OL Phell. POO.. ac. Plat.
Pot. c. Rheum. RKt. &bin. Samb.
sen. Sil. Stann. &aph. Tab. Verat.
Verb. Viol.od. Zioc.
a> kind.
- onesided, Veri.
- partial, CAGm..
- waud.ering, NuxT.
b) eonaition.
SA~ (llhivering) · :
- in the forenoon, .An,.~
- - aftemoon, Arg. Dig. Nuxv.
- in the evening, Aeon. An. AUT". Bov.
Cham.Ep. Hydr. .K2'am..Mgn.e. PhelL
Phoa. Pbos.ac.
- a& night, Arg. Hydr. Staph.
- in the day-time, Pot.c.
- with affection of internal organs,
Euph.
- in IJed, Aur.
- - relieved, Mgn.e.
- in cold tem~rature, Cham.
- after drinking, Ars. Cape. Cinch.
Nuxv. VeraL
- when exerciaing, Nuxv. SiL
- after meals, Tox.
- in the open air, Cole.& Plat.
- with the pains, Ars. Bar. c. Mez.
Ran. b. Sep.
- on the parta aft'ected, An.
- at rest, Bruc.
- in a room, Are.
- when touched, Spig.
- near a warm. Btove, Artem. Guaj.
Hydr. Rut.
--relieved, Nuxv.
c) connerion.
Shudderin!. attended and 1ucceedell by:
see Chills.
Heat, in general, Aeon•. Ant. tart. Ar•.
BeU. Bov. Calc. s. Camph. Calc.
Chan&. Cincl. Cftff. Ferl'l. Graph.
Hydr. HJOIC. Iga. Jod. Ipee. Pot.c.
Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. 11. Mang. Mosch.
Mur. ac. Nice. Plw1. Phoe.ac. Rhod.
&mb. Sep. SiJ. Sod. bor. Sod. chi.
Spig. &arm. Stram. Stroot. &lp#.
Sulph. ac. Tar. Tereb. Zinc.
- sell88tion of, Cham. lgn. Mgn. c.
Oleud. Sil. StanD.
a) place,
look to the lliDgle organs.
b) kind. '
Heat, anxious, Aoon. Are. 1«n- PboL.
Pbos.ac. Puis. Sep. Sod.chJ. Spong.
Stann.
- burning, Aeon. An. BsU. Bry. C/&Gm.
Dule. Hdl. H)"lk. IAur. Lge. Moaeh.
Op. Pula. Sabin. &ill. Stann.. &aph.
Heat. dry, Aeon. An. Bar.m. &lL BFy.
CGic. •· Caust. Coloc. Con. Dulc-
Hydr. Nitr. ac. Pot. nitr. &ill. SiL
Sod.& &ront. SulJI/&.
- externaJ, Anac. BelL Dry. Cocc. CoJoc.
Cor. Hell. Hydr.Jgn. Pu1& SiL
- 11ushes of best, Agn. AmiL Calc. c_
Caie.e. Car6. •· Dig. Graph. lgn. Jod..
Lye. Mgn. c. Nitr. ac. Oleand. 01.
Petr. Phol. &p. SiL Sod. bor. Spi&.
Spong. Stann. Sulph.
--;inward, ACOit. Ar1. BeU. Bty. Ferr.
magn.
-from the mouth and noee coming.
Stront.
c) condition.
- day and night, Bar. m.
- in the morning, Euph. Mgn. c. Pot.c.
Sod. bor. Sulph.
- - forenoon, Berb. Sass.
- - afternoon, Anac. Berb. Cop. Sod.s.
Stann.
- - evening, Agn. Ang. Berb. Calc. s.
Cinch. Ferr. Hell. Hydr. Mar.
Mosch. Mur. ac. Nice. Ol Phos.
Phos. ac. Sass. Sulph. Thuy.
- at night, Ars. Berb. Bry. Calc. c.
Calc.s. Carb. a. Carb.v. Canst. Cham.
Dulc. Hydr. Laur. Mgn. c. l\1gn. m.
Mgn. s. Nice. Nitr. ac. Petr. Phos.
Phos. ae. Pot. nitr. Puis. Ran. b.
Ran. sc. Rhod. Sabin. Sil. Sod. chl.
Stront. Thuy. Viol. tric.
- before midnight, Jamb.
- by artificial heat relieved, Cor.
- in bed, Agn. Hell. Mgn. m. Mgn. s.
Pot.c. (comp. "at night.")
- during a serious conversation, Sep.
- when exercising, Ant. tart. Stann.
- after exercise, Amm. m. Sep.
- when occupied, busily, Oleand.
- during the pains, Carb. v.
- on the parts affected, Aeon. Bry.
Sulph.
- in sitting, Sep.
- in sleep, (Dule. Petr. Viol. tric.)
- when stooping, Hydr.chl.eorr.
- after vexation, Petr. Sep.
- in the warmth of a room, Amm. m.
d) connexion.
Heat attended by:
- abdomen, inflated, Ars.
- adipsia, see thirstlessness.
- anxiety, Aeon. Amb. Ars. Berb. Bov.
Calc.c. Cycl. Ign. Mgn. c. Op. Phos.
Phos. ac. Puis. Rut. Sep. Sod. chi.
Spong.Stann. Stram. (comp. ''anxious
heat".)
- back, pain in, lgn.
- belly-ache, Caps. Carb. v. Tox.
o,gitized by Google
... _
..1
r
' 4. Febrile aifections. 461
Hetlt .uendel 6J:
-blood, agitaiion of, Ferr. Ph011. ac.
8aiB. Staph.
- - to the bead, BeU.
- blood-vetllli!ls, buming in, Ar1.
- - distention of, Cinch. ·
- bones, pain in, Ian.
- breathfug, difficUlt, aee dyspncea.
- bulimia, Artem. Phos.
- cheat, oppression of, Aeon. AnL Berb.
Bov. C&rb.v. ·
- - pain in, AnL A.rtem. Cape. Carb. v.
Nuxv. Pot. c.
- - sensation of heat in, AmiD. m.
- countenance (face), bloated, Amm. m.
Ars.
- - cold, Ipec. Rhm.
- - pale, Artem. Ipec. Sep.
- - led, Amm. m. Bar. m. BeU. Camph.
Carb. v. Cycl. Dule. Jgn. Lye.
Mp. s. Nux v. Op. Sep. Stram.
Swph. Verat.
- deliria, Ars. Artem. Cineh. Dulc. Ign.
Op. Sabad. Verat.
- diarrha~a, Tox.
- dizziness (Eingenommenheit, Wilst-
heit des Kopfit), Ang. Ar1. Bry. V•l.
Verat.
- dyspnrea, Lye. Rut. .
- ear-&ps, red, Camph.
- eyes, weakneea of, Carb.v., Sod.ehl.
- filet, cold, Calad.
- gaping, Sabad. ·
-giddiness, AnL Bry. Carb. v. Hydr.
Mgn.s. Nuxv.
-headache, Ang. Ars. Artem. &U.
Bry. Caps. Carb. v. Dulc. lgri. Nuxv.
Pot. c. Rut. Sod.bor. &tl. chl. Sulph.
Val.
- head, heavineea in, Ars.
- heart, pall'itation of, Calc. c. Hydr.
8888. se11• si=.r
h.
- heat on the te, Dulc.
- knee, cold, gn.
- lep, ~ in, Caps. Carb. v.
- to lie down, necessity, Calc. c.
- limbs, pain in, Cinch. ko. Tox.
- nausea, Anac. Ars. Carh. v. Sod. bor.
- painfulnessofthebody,when touched,
Mang.
_,_when uncovered, Hydr.
- perspiration on the forehead, Ipee.
Mgn.s. Sus.
-pulse, slow, Ferr.magn.
- restlessnesll, Ars. BeU. Bov. Af&'n.m.
- sacral region, pain in, Pot.e.
- scrobiculus, pain in, Ars.
- skin, dry, Aeon.
- - red,Ars.
- sleepiness and sleep, CeJc. s. Ip.
Verst.
- sleepleuneu, Rhod.
Heat attended by:
- sorethroatwhenswallowing,Phos.ac.
- spleen hard and painful, Ars.
- stomach, pain in, Carb. v. Sep.
- to stool, urgency, Caps.
- stretching,and extending, Sabad.
- taste, bitter, Ars.
- - nauseous, Caps.
- thirst, Aeon. Amm. m. Ang. Arn. Ars.
Artem. Bell. Dov. Dry. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Caps. Carb. v. Case. Cham. Cinch.
Cop. Dulc. Mgn. m. Nice. Nitr. ac.
Nux v. Petr. Phos. Puis. Ran. sc.
Sec. Sep. Sod. chl. Spig. Staph. Stram.
Stront. Sulph. Val. Verat.
- thirstlessness, Ars. Artem. Berb.
Caps. Calc. s. Ca!'b. v. Cinch. Cycl.
Ep. Hell. Ign. Ipec. Mgn. c. l'lfur..ac.
Nitr. ac. Phos. Phos. ac. Pot. mtr.
Pttls. Sabad. Samb. Sep. Sulph. Tar.
- tongue, dry, Ars.
- tremor, Mgn. c.
- unconsciousness, stupor, Ars. Dulc.
Phos. ac. Sep. Sod. chl.
- to be uncovered, aversion, Mgn. c.
Samb.
- - inclination, Mur. ac. Plat.
- urine, red, Nuxv.
- to vomit, inclination, Sod. bor.
- vomiting, Nux v. Stram.
- - of bile, or mucus, water, or what
has been eaten, Nuxv.
- weakness, Anac. Dry. Calc. c. Phos.
Sod.chl.
- weeping, Spong.
Heat preceded by (commencing with):
- cou~h, Calc. c.
- gapmg, Calc. c.
- thirst, Cinch. Puis. Sabad. Sod. chi.
Heat IUCeeeded by (terminating 1Dith.):
-thirst, Cinch. Cott Nux v. Stann.
Stram.
- vomiting and headache, Calc.e.
- weakness, Dig.
Perl'pirtJtion (sweat), in pneral, Alat.
tart. Calc. s. Dule. Gr42l. Guj.
Hydr. Lach. Nw:v. &mb. Thuy. Veil.
a) place,
look the eingle organa for.
b) kind.
- bi&ing, Cham. Con.
- bloody, Myr.
- clanuDy, viscoua, Aaac. Ars. Calc.a.
Cure. Ferr. Hydr. Lye. Plw..Pboe.ac.
Verat. .
- cold, Ant. tart. ·Ar•. Bar. m. Calad.
Calc.s. Cupr. Dig. Dulc. Hydr. Hyoec.
Ipee. Lye. Nux v. Plumb. Sec. Sep.
&d. c. Sulph. Sulpb. ac. Ver.t.
- critical, Bry.
Digitized by Coogle
4. Febrile afl'ed.ions.
Perspiration (sweat), debilitating, Amb.
Carb. a. Cinch. Cocc. Ferr. Hydr.
Pot. nitr. Stann.
- ~reasy, Dry. Hydr. Mgn. c.
- msects attracting, Calad.
- itching, Mang. Par. Rhod.
- onesided, Myr. Puis.
- smelling, aromatic, Rhod.
- - bad, Bar.c. Carb. a. Dulc. Graph.
Lye. Mgn.c. Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Phos.
Pot.c. Puls.
- - empyreumatic, Bell
- - moUldy, Stann.
- - like onions, Bov.
- - putrid, Staph.
- - sour, Bry. Calc. c. Carb. v. Cham.
Hydr. Jod. Led. Mgn. c. Nitr. ac.
Nux v. Sep. Sil. Sulph. Tox.
- - sourish, like in measles, Ferr.
magn.
- - like urine, Coloc. Nitr. ac.
- staining, Sel.
--yellow, Carb.a. Hydr.
- stiffening the linen, Hydr. Sel.
- warm, Ant. s.
c) condition.
Perspiration appearing:
- in the morning (morning-sweats),
Amm. c. Ant. s. Aur. Bov. Bry.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Carb. a. Carb. v. Chel.
Cic. Clem. Dros. Euph. Ferr. magn.
Guaj. Hell. Hydr. :Jamb. Jod. Mgn. s.
Mosch. Nuxv. Par. Phos. Phos. ac.
Pot. nitr. Sep. Sod. c. Sod. chL Stann.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tox.
- - every other moruin~, Ant. s.
Perspiration (sweat) durmg the day,
readily, Aman. Amb. Anac. Ant. tart.
Bell. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Carb. a.
Cinch. Dulc. Ferr. Graph. Guaj.
Lach. Led. Lye. Nitr. ac. Phos. ac.
Pot. c. Rhm. Sel. Sep. Sil. Sod. c.
Sod. chl. Staph. Stram. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Verat. Zinc.
- in the afternoon, Berb. Mgn. m.
Mgn.s.
- - evenin~, Mur. ac. Sulph.
- atnight(mght-sweats),Amb.Amm.c.
Amm.m. Anac. Ant. tart. Arg. Aur.
Bar. c. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Carb. a.
Carb. v. Caust. Cic. Cinch. Coloc. Con.
Cupr. Dig. Dulc. Euphr. Graph.
Hell. Hydr. Jod. Kram. Lye. Mgn.c.
M~n. m. Mgn. s. Mang. Mur. ac.
N~tr.ac. Nuxv. Petr. Phos. Phos. ac.
Pot. c. Puis. Sabin. &mb. Sep. Sil.
Sod. c. Sod. s. Spong. Stann. Staph.
Stram. Stront. Sulph. Tab. Tox.
Viol. od. Viol. tric. Zinc.
Per~Jriration (sweat) after lllidui(ht,
Amb. Amm. m. Mp. m.
- in the cold (open) air, Bry. Calc. c.
- with the cough, An.
- with exenioa, moderate, oftbe body,
Aman. Graph. Led. Lye. PoLc. RAM.
&d. c. 8ulpA.
- with exercil!le, amall, Berb. c.le. c.
Cine/a. Cocc. Ferr. Ferr.magn. Gra-ph.
Led. Lye. Nitr. ac. Pot. c. &Yp. SiL
Sod.c. Sod.ehl. Stann. s~:;"Sulph.
ac. Verat. (comp. after w · g.)
- after lying down, Mgn. e.
- during meals~ Carb. a. Cub. v. Con.
(Graph.) OL Phoe. Sass. &p.Sod.bol.
Sod.chl. ijuJp~ac. (comp. See.l!·)
- aftermeals, Nttr. ot;. Sep. (comp.tbtd.)
-with men&al exertion, Pot..c.
- with the paina, Hydr. &d. c. Tab.
-after paroxysms ofmadne., Cupr.
- on the parts affected, Ant. tart. Hydr.
Stroot.
- on the side affected, Amb.
- in sitting, Anac. Sep. Staph.
-when commencing to Bleep, Ar•.
Con. Mur. ac. Tab. Thuy. Verat.
- in sleep, Carb.a. Cic. Cine/a. Ferr. Sel.
- before stool, Hydr. ·
- when talking, Graph. Jod.
- while walking, Aman. Amb. Bruc.
Led. Pot..c. BeL SiL Sod. chl.
- - in the open air, Bry. Carb. a.
Carut. Guaj.
- after warm food, 8ulpA. ac.
.d) connerion.
Per6piration attended by:
-anxiety, Berb. Calc. c. Sep. Sod.c.
- chest, pain in, Bry.
- chilliness, Nuxv.
-cough, Bry.
- formication, Rlwd.
- heaviness in the heRd, Caust.
- languor, An.
- pain in the limbs, Nux v.
- micturition, copious, Du1c. Ph08.
- pain in the parts lying up, Nuxv.
- pain when un«llvered, stront.
- restlessness, Biy.
~ sighina', Bry.
- sleep, Sabad.
- thirst, Culc.e. CincA. Jamb.
- thiretlessneee, Art. Carb. v. Euph.
Ign. lpec. Phoe. Sep.
- to be uncovered, aversion, Cineb.
Stroot.
Perspiration commencing: with lbiret,
Coft: Thny.
- terminating: }vith thirst, Lye.
- - alternating with dryness
skin, Sod. c.
of the Pul•e, aceelerated, AL Ant.l!lrt. Bar.c.
- before midnight, Mur. ac.
Guaj. Hydr.Jod. PheU. Phoe.Phoe.ae.
VaL (comp. "quick".)
Digitized by Coogle
-·
4. Febrile a1fections.
Pulle, fi'equent, Ani. Bar.m. CGltJd.
Oleand. 'Phoe. ac. Sil. Stann.
-full, Aeon. AnL tart. Bar. m. Am.
BeU. Calc. a. Camph. Coloc. Cor. Dig.
Oleand. ·Op. Petr. Phos. a. Ran. sc.
Sil. Sulph.
- hard, Aeon. Aeth. Bell. Bry. Cale.a.
Coloc. Cor. Dulc. Jod. Nuxv. Op. Sil.
SoLm. VeraL
-imperceptible, Cann. Pula. Yerat.
- intermittent, Aeon. Calc. a. Mur. ac.
Op. Pholl. ac. Sod. chi. Sulph. VeraL
- iriegular, Aeth. Con. D~g. Hydr.
Sod.chi.
~ la~e, AI.
- qwck, Aeon. Aeth. Am. BelL Calc. !I.
Camph. Coloc. Cupr. Hydr. NllX v.
· . Op. Fhos. ac; Rari. IIC. SiL Stram.
Verat.
- quivering, Calad.
- alow, Bell. Berb. Camph. Cann. Dig.
Ferr. magn. Laot. Op. Yerat.
- ~~mall, Aeon. Aeth. Are. Bell. Bry.
Calad. Camph. Cinch. Dig. Dulc. Jod.
Op. Ph011. ac. Plat. Pula. SiL Staph.
&ram. Sulph. Sulph.ae. Verat.
- soft, Bell. Ferr. magn. Ran.!!C.
- suppreMed, Are. Carb. v. Sil.
- tense, Bell. Dulo.
- tremulous, Ars.
-weak, Berb.. Hydr. Phos. ac. Plat.
Tox.
Fever• con8Uti.of:
- chills with heat, Aeon. Anac. Are.
Bell. Cocc. Coloc. Hell. Lye. Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. Sabad. Thuy. Tox. Zinc.
- - with heat on single parts, OL
&bad.
- - with eensation of heat, Oleand.
--partial, with heat, Bell. Nux v.
Tox.
- - with heat, then perspir., Graph.
- - alternating witti heat, Agn. lJelL
Calc. c. Coloc. Hydr. Lye. Nuxv.
Phoe. Phoe. ac. Rhm. Rhod.Sabad.
Set. Sil. Sod. chi. Spig. Sulph.
Verat.
- - alterilating with beat, then sue·
ceeded by heat, Verat.
- - alternating with heat, then heat,
and finally perspir., Bry.
- - alternating witli heat, succeeded
by perspir., Pot. c.
- - succeededbyheat, Aeon. Amm. m.
· Am. Artem. Berb. Bar. c. Bry.
Calc. a._Cap•. Carb. v. Cop. Croc.
Cycl. Dulc. Graph. Jgn. Jpec.
·. Nw:v. Pho1. Pot. nitr. Puli.Bsbad.
' ' Sec. Sod. bor. Sod. chl Stram.
8ulph. Tox. VaL Verat.
Fever• con8Uting of:
- chills suoo. by partial heat, Cycl.
- - succ. by partial heat in the·&ce,
Amb. Cycl. Petr.
- - succ. by heat in the head, Ipec.
- - suoo. by heat with perapir., Artem.
Bell. Bry. Calc. e. Caps. C#ulm.
Cinch. lgn. Nuxv. Phoe. Sabad.
Tox.
- - succ. by heat with partial persp.,
Calc.s.
- - succ. by heat and then by persp.,
Are. Artem. Calc. 11. Cinch. Grapn.
lgn. Ipec. Puis. Sabin.Tox. Verat.
- - with persp., Euph. Lye. Sulph.
- - eucc. by persp., Caps. Carb. a.
CaUIIL Dig. Lye. ~gn. 11. Petr.
Phos. ac. Sabad. Sod. chi. Thuy.
Tox. Verat.
- 11buddering, shivering, with heat,
Bell. Cham. Hell. Ign. Nux v. Rhm.
- - with ftushes of heat, Zinc.
- - withheatonsin~lespots,Nuxv.Ol.
--alternating w1th heat, Hydr.
Mgn.s. ~osch. Nuxv.
- - succ. by heat, Bell. Laur.
- ·- succ. b( perspiration, Cleni. Dig.
Sod.ch. .
....;;. heat, with chills, Aeon. Coft: Hell.
Ign. Nuxv.
_..;. - in the bands and feet, with a cool
countenance, Rhm.
- - partial, with coldness ofthe limbe,
Pll!on.
- - in the head or face, with eoldne&ll
' ofthe bands orfeet, Amm. c. Am.
Aur. Ran. b. Rhod. Rut. Sabin.
Scill. Stram; ·
- - succeeded by chills, Calc.c. Nwcv.
- - succ. by coldne&ll of the hands,
Calc.c.
- - in the head, succeeded by cold·
ne&ll and finally heat, Stram.
- - in the face, euce. by chills, Calc. c.
- - with shuddering, Aeon. Bell. Hell.
Hydr. Ign. Sep.
- - w1th per!!piration, Artem. Bell.
Bry. Calc.s. Caps. Ckm. Cinch.
- Con. Euph. Ferr. magn. Hydr.
Ign. Nuxv. Op. Phoe. Pule. Sabad.
Stann. Stram. Tox.
- - with partial perspir., 01.
- - succeeded· )jy perspiration, AI.
AnL 11. Calad. Cinch. Coft: Ign.
Ran.ec.
o,9itized by Google
5. AffectiQns of the mind.
(Gemtiti ural Geitt.)
Activity (love of being busy, Geechiftig-
keit), Bar. c. Lach. &,1. StaDD. Verat.
Acuteneu, subtilty (Sebartisinn), Co.ff.
Lach. Op. Viol. od.
Affected (Angegriffenheit), Hydr. Led.
Lye. Nuxv. Saa Sulph.aq, (comp.
relaxation in this SeC., Fatigue m
Sec. I. and Affection in Sec.6.)
- by mental labour, see Sec. 6.
- by the pains, Saa
- by ll8d tales, Cic.
- by vexation, Zinc.
When being alone, state of the mind
wone, Phos. Stram.
Alternatingstate ofthe mind,Alum.Lye.
Arnorou.! complexion, Ant. s. Hyos.
Stram. Verat.
- fits, Aeon. Op.
An.rietg, in general (Angst), Aeon. Aetl.
AI. Amm.c. Am. Ars. Artem. Aur.
Bar:c. Bar.m. Bell. Berb. Bry. Calc.c.
Calc. •· Cann. Carb.v. Caust. Cham.
Cinch. Cocc. Co.ff. Coloc. Cupr. Ourc.
Cycl. Dill. E110n. Graph. HeU. R~r.
Ig1.1. JoCI. Ipee. Lam. Laur. •
Mrn.e. Men. Nu.n. Petr. Phos. P .
Pfumh. Puis. Ran. sc. Rut. &bad.
&c. Sen. Sep. Sod.c. .Stann. &ram.
Tab. Thuy. Toz. Verat. Viol. tric.
- An.rioumus (Aengstlichkeit), Alum.
Amb. Amm.c. Anac. Ant. tart. Arg.
Arn. Aur. Bar.c. Bell. Dry. Calad.
Calc.c. Canth. Canst. Cham. Cic. Con.
Cupr. Dros. Euph. Ferr. Graph.
Grat. Led. Lye. Mgn. m. Mgn. •·
Mosch. Mur.ac. Nice. Nitr.ac.Nuxv.
Op. Petr. Phos. Pot.c. Pot. nitr. Puis.
Rut. &had. 8als. Scill. Set~. Sit.
&d. c. &d. chl. 8pig. ~·Staph.
Stroot. 8ulph. Thuy. Val.
- - timid(Biyagigkeit),Alum.Amm.m.
Ant. tart. Artem. Calad. Calc. c.
CantA. Caust. Hydr. Mqn. •· Men.
Nice. PhelL Sep. 8ptg. 8tront.
Sulph.ac. Tab. Verat.
- fearful, Amm.c. Calc.& Canst. Cocc.
Co.ff. Dig. Graph. Lach. Mgn. •· Men.
Pot. c. Pot.joel. Sulph. Verat.
- about the future, health, domestic af.
fain; &e., see "Solicitude".
- at the heart, see Sec. 30.
- by thoughts excitable, Calc.e.
- .to walk rapidly, eom~lling, Arg.
- by weeping relieved, Tab.
a) condition. ·.
Atuiety, &e. a~g:
-in the mornmg, Ars. Gr(JfJI&. Verat.
{comp. "When p&ing awake".)
Aaziety, in the forenoon, Ran. b.
- - afternoon, Tab.
- - evening, Amh. Ars. CaJad. Calc. e.
Calc. •· Carb.11. Dig. Hydr. Lour.
Nun. Phos. Pot.jod. 8ep. Sulph.
To¢.
- - - relieved, .Amm.c.
- - - in bed, An. .Calad. Carb. v.
Laur. Sep.
- in the evening twilight, Calc. c.
- at night, Ars. Bar. Bell. Dry. Cak.c.
Cann. Cari.v.. CG.ut. C/urn&. Coec.
Dig. Graph. Hytlr. /,!rft. Mgn.c. Nuxv.
Petr. Phos. Plumb.llan.ee. Sep. Sod.
chi. Toz. Verat.
- when beiog alone, Dros. Mez. P~
- from the approach ofotbel'8, Lye.
- when gettmg awake (at nigbl or in
the morning), Calc. c. Con. Kram.
Plat. Puis. Samb.
- from listening to tales of cruelty,
Calc.e.
- during mental labour, Sod. e.
- in the open air, Artem.
- - relieved, Laur.
- preeedinJ evacuation, see Sec. 22.
- when ridmg in a vehicle, Lacb.
- when rising up from lying or sitting,
verat. a·
- during a thunder-s~, Phos. Sod.c.
Sod. chi.
- after vexation, Lye. Verat.
b) connezion.
An.riety &e., attended by:
- belly~e, Aur.
- dyspn0!8, Plat. Sea.
- pains at the heart, Spong.
- palpitation of the heart, Ant. tart.
Calc.c.Ferr.Mosch. Nuxv. Plat. Pula.
Verat.(eomp. palp.eftheh. inSec.30.)
-heat, Sep.
- shuddenng, Calc.c.
- tremor, Ant.tart. Plat. Puls. Sass.
- weakness, Amm.c.
~path¥, m~ntal, Hyosc. Phos.ac. Stram.
~ (Beiurchtungen), Aeon.
Amm.c. Calc.c. Calc.s. Canst. Ckm.
Cocc. Cqff. Dill. Graph. Jod. Laeh.
Laur. Mgn.s.l\len. Pot..c. Pot.jod.
Sulph. Verat. (eomp. Fear.)
- about the future, health, domestic
afliUrs ~., see "Solicitude".
Arrogat&Ce (Anmassung, Stolz), Lye.
Plat. Stram. Verat.
AHr'ice, Pula. (comp. envy.)
Avemcmto eompally,Amb. bar.c. &d.c.
(eomp. "love ofSolitude".)
Digitized by Coogle
5. Affections of the mind.
,
Avmien to eon'nlftllltion, see "talk".
- to every tf:;1:Ther. Thuy.
-to faugh,
- to mental labour, Cinch. Jod. Nitr. ac.
Par. Petr. Scill Staph.
- to Dluaic. see Sec. 10.
- to others, Arum. m. Calc. c. (eomp.
"hate".) '
- to f.!il(m children), Bar.c.
- to see "talk".
- to work, see "work".
After the autumnal equinox, state of the
mind worst, Stram.
AtoliDardneu (Unbeholfellheit, Unge-
schicklichkelt), Anuc. Bov. Caps.
Sod.chL ·
Bellotoi:ng, BelL Canth.
Bewiltlered(a11888r sich IIBin), during the
paroxysms ofpain, Aeon.Cham. Co.ff.
Verat.
Biting, Bell. Sec. Stram. Verat.
Boldnesa, Ign.
CtJlmne&a, Up.
Caprice, capriciousneM (Eigemrinn, Lau-
nenhathgkeit), Bell. Calc. c. Hydr.
Lye.Nuxv. Nitr. ac. Sil.Stram.Sulph.
(comp. "obstinacy, pertinacity".)
Careleasnesa, Op.
Carph.ologia(picking thebed-cloths),Ars.
Jod. Op. Phos. Phos.ae. Sulph. Tox.
C~tn~~oriousne1a, Ars. Guaj. Nuxv. Sep.
Verat. (comp. "contemptuous ~u-
mor".) ·
Changeable humor, Agn. Ant. tart. Arn.
Aur. Cann. Caps. Carb.a. Oroc. Cupr.
Cyc. Ferr. Hydr. chi. corr. Ign. Myr.
Phell. Phos. Plat. Pulr. Sass. Sod.chi.
Stram. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Val. Zinc.
Childish behavwur (Liippisches Wesen),
Anac. Par.
Choler(Jiihzom),Anae. Aur. Bar.e.Croc.
Mez. Nuzv. Oleimd. Petr. Phoa. Sen.
Sod. c. Sod. chl.
Company tmOided, Amb. Bar. e. Jamb.
&fl. c.
- desired, Mez. Stram.
Compr.ehenllion,dlfficuU,Agn.Amb.Cham.
Con. Mez. Myr. Oleand. Sod. e. Zinc.
- ofwhat is heard! Cham. Sod. e.
- - read, Agn. Sod.e.
Comcience, alarmed (perplexity ofmind,
Gewissellllllngst), Ar1. Ca.ff. Oyc. Dig.
Hydr. Pula. Rut. Stram. Vllf'Gt. ..
Contem~ humor, OincA. Guaj.lpee.
Par. Plat. · ·
- in a room wone ·tbm in the open
air, or when snn shinee, Plat.
Omtradietion, A!lae. ·Nic. Rut. (eomp.
wrangling, quarreling.) · ·
- intolerable, Oleand. · ,, .
Cour1e ofthinking, slow, Cari.•,,Oinch.
Ipec. Men. Myr. ·Phae.ac. Rut. Sep.
Thuy. Tox. (eomp. thinkmg, retlec-
tion, difficult.)
Catoardice, Bar.o.
Ourlling, Anac. Cor. Nitr. ae.
Dancing, Cie. Stram. Tab.
By darknea• state of the mind worse,
Stram.
Dejection (Low spirits, Niedergeschla-
genheit), Bell. Calad. Calc.c. Canth.
Canst. Chel. Cinch. Colch. Coloc.
Dros.Graph. Jod. Laur. Nuxv. Plumb.
Sabin. Sod. c. Sulph. Sulph.ac. Thuy.
Verat. • ,
-when alone, Bov.
Deliria, Aeon. Ars. Artem. Bell. Bry.
Calc. c. Cham. Cinch. Coloc. Dulc.
Hyosc. lgn. Jod. Myr. Nuxv. Op.
Phos. ac. Plat. Plumb. Puis. Sabad.
Samb. Sec. Stram. Sulph. Tox. Verat.
- frightfu.J, Stram.
- while falling asleep, Bry. Spong.
- in sleep, Aeon. Arn. Bry. Camph.
- wild, Plumb.
Deserted, feeling himself, Carb. a.
Despair, despondency, Amb. Ant. tart.
Ars. Aur. Calc. c. Carb. a. Carb. v.
Graph. Nitr. ac. Val. Verat. (see
"hopelessness".)
- ofothers, Aur.
- about ruined health, Calc.c.
- about his soul's welfare, Lye. Sulplt.
Detestations, Nitr. ac. (comp. "cursing,
scolding &c.")
Dictatorial conduct, Lye.
Disconsolateness(Trostlosigkeit,Untrost-
lichkeit), Aeon. Amb. Cham. Nuxv.
Spong. Stram. Sulph. Verat.
Discontentedness, Ang. Bism. Caps. Cic.
Cinch.Hydr. chi.corr. Par. Plum.Rut.
Disco.uragement (Muthlosigkeit), Bell.
Cinch. Con. Cupr. Dros. Plumb/ Sec.
Sep. Sil. Sod. c. Spig. Stann. Sulplt.
Ther. Verat. (comp. "hopelessness,
pusillanimity &c.")
Disesteem of oneself, Agn.
Disinclination, see "aversion".
DislikinfJ !tis business, Sep.
Disobedtence, Amm. m. Cinch. (Lye.)
Viol. tric.
Displeased, easily, Alum. Bi>v.Caps. Cocc.
Mgn.s. Sass. (comp. "Sensibility,irri-
tability".)
Distemper (Verstimmtheit), Amm. c. Jod.
Plat. Sulph. (comp. "peevishness".)
- after vexation, Plat.
- with cloudy weather, Amm. c.
Distrust, Bar. c. Bell. Oic. Hell. Hyosc.
Pttls. Sulph. ac.
Distrusting futurity, Anac. Caust.
Dolefulness (Wehmuth), Aur. Bov. Lye.
Mgn. s. Rhod. Ran. sc. Tab. Verat.
(comp. "Sadness".)
·~,gi ,zed by Google
I
5. Affections of the min·d.
Dolefulness in the evening, Ran. sc.
- relieved by complaining, Tab.
Doubtful of recovery, Bry.
- of his soul's welfare, Lye. Sulph.
Dreaming, while awake, Aug. Arn.
Cham. Oleand.
- about futurity, poetical, Oleand.
Eccentric mind (Ueberspanntheit), Ang.
see "exaltation".
Envy, Lye. Pula.
Erroneous notions, Nux v. Sulph.
Escaping, fleeing from home, Bell. Bry.
Cob:. Hyosc. "Verat.
Exaltation, excitement (Aufgeregtheit),
Amb. Ang. Jod. Mar. Petr. Stram.
Tab. Val. Verat. Verb. (comp. Sec. 1.
"over-irritation'.
- of fancy, Alum. Ang. Cann. Cinch.
Coff. Lach. Op. Sabad. Stram. Verb.
(comp. "aggregation of thoughts, vi-
vacitf'.)
FanatiC'I.Sm (Schwiirmerei), philosophi-
cal, Sulph.
- religious, Sel. Sulpll.
Fatigued (angegriffen), see "affected".
Foor, of death, Aeon. Agn. Al. Anac.
Ars. Bry. Calc. c. Cocc. Cupr. Graph.
Ipec. Nitr. ac. Plat. Pot. nitr. Puis.
Scill. Stram. Tox.
- of disease and misery, Cole. c.
- of futurity, Anac. Bry. Dig. Staph.
(comp. "Solicitude".)
- of mental derangement, Amb. Calc.c.
Hydr.
- of misfortune, Calc. c. Graph. (comp.
apprehensions.)
- of being poisoned or sold, Bell. Hyosc.
Tox.
- ofsolitude, Lye.
- ofspectres, Ars. Carb. v. Puis. Ran. b.
Sulph.
- - m the evening, Puis. Ran. b.
- - at night, Carb. v. Sulph.
Fearfulness, AI. Amm. c. Ang. Ars.
Bar.c. BeU. Berb.Bry..Carb.a. Caust.
Con. Dros. Mgn. c. N1cc. Op. Phos.
Puls. Ran. b. Sec. Spig. Spong. Suiph.
Val. Verat.
- in the eveni~_g, Carb. a. Phos. Puis.
Ran. b. Val. verat.
- at night, Caust.
Flinging about, Bell. Canth. Hyosc.
Stram.
Flying out (Zornauffahren, Jahzom),
Anac. Aur. Bar. c. Croc. Mez. Nuxv.
Olennd. Petr. Phos. Sen. Sod. c. Sod.
chi. (comp. "Impetuosity".)
Fondness (Zartlichkeit), Ign.
Foolish behav«tur, Cic. Hyosc. Myr.
Stram. Tan. Verat.
Forgetfulness, Aeon. Amm. c. Bar. c.
Bell. Colch. Con. Croc. Graph. Gttoj.
Myr. Phos. Plat. Rhod. SiL Sod. chi.
Stront.. Viol. od. Zinc.
For(Jetfulness, in business, Sel.
- m the morning, Phos.
- of names, Guaj.
Frensy (Tobsucht), Bell. Sec. SoL nig.
Stram. Verat. (comp. Fury.)
Fretfulness (Aergerlichkeit), Aeon. Aeth.
Amm. c. Amm. m. Ars. Berb. Bry.
Calc. c. Calc.s. Canth. Carb. v. Caust.
Cham. Cinch. Cocc. Coloc. Con. Cor.
Croc. Evon. Ferr.magn. Gt-aph.Ign.
Ipee. Kram. Led. Lye. Mar. Mur. ac.
Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Oleand. Par. Phell.
Plios. Plat. Pot. c. Pot. jod. Ran. b.
Sabad. Sabin. Sass. Sell!. Sep. Sil.
Stann. Staph. Stram. Sulph. Thea.
Verat. Verb. Zinc.
- in the open air, Aeth.
- in the forenoon, Ran. b.
Frightened easily ( Schreckhaftigkeit),
Aeon. Alum. Ang. Ant. s. Arn. Bell.
Calc. c. Cann. Caps. Garb. a. Cic. Cocc.
Con. Graph. Ign. Lach. Led. Nux v.
Op. Petr. Phos. Plat. Pot.c. Pot.jod.
Sabad. Samb. Sep. Sil. Sod.c. Sod.
chi. Spong. Sulph. Sulph.ac. Ther.
Verat.
Flury (Wuth, Raserei), Aeth. Aman.
Bell. Camph. Cann. Canth. Cupr.
Hyosc. Lye. Nitr. ac. Plumb. Sabad.
(Sen.) Stram. Verat.
Gloominess (Trubsinn, diisteres Ge-
miith), Bov. Con. Dig. Plumb. Puis.
Rhod. Stann. Tab. Verat. Viol.od.
(comp. "joylessness, melancholy, de-
jection, sadness".)
Gravity, Cann. Euph. Grat. Led. Myr.
Sulph.ac.
- at things laughable, Anac.
Grief, Alum. Amm. m. Graph. Ign.
Lach. Lye. Phos. ac. Staph.
- about his condition, Staph.
Groaning (Stohnen), Aeon. Cham. Cojf.
Graph. Stram.
Hard-heartedness, Anac. Croc.
Hastiness, Amb. Ars. Bar. c. Bell. Calc. s.
Laur. Phos.ac. Sod. chi. Stram. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Viol. tric.
- in mental labours, Amb.
- in talking, Bell. Calc. s.
Hatred ofoffenders, Sod. chi.
Haughtiness, Plat. Stram. Ver~t.
Hesitation ( langsame Entschliessung),
Graph. Mez. Puis. Sen. (comp. "Irre-
solution".)
Hilarity, Croc. Ferr. mgn.. Hydr. chl.
corr. Plat. Sass. Sen. Sod. chL
Home-sickness, Aur. Caps. Garb. a. Hell.
Phos. ac. SiL
- with redness of the cheeks, Caps.
Digitized by Google
5. Affections ofthe mind.
~ Ferr.mp. . · Irnt11fiJUJtionl, of pl'el!llllle8 .of otben
H~, Ant. tart. Am. Carb. a. (strangers), Mgn.&
Carb. v. Cauat. (comp. "Discourage- - proud, Plat. Stf'G'RI. Verst.
ment, despair".} - of ridaes and beautiful things,
Horror (GraW!en), m the eve~, Calc.c. Sulpb.
Carb.a. Phos. (camp. "Fear'.) - oftranBBction ofbuainees, Cupr.
HOfiJlin.g,haJlooing, Bell. Cham. Cic. Cotr. - ofhavin~ a threefold body, Are.
Ipec. Stram. Verst. (eomp. "Scream- - of vexations and offences, Cham.
ipg. weeping".) Cinch. Dros.
Hy~lwby, BeU. Cant/a. Hyosc. Lllch. Imbecility (Bloomnn), Ant.s. Hyoec.AIJJ'.
Stram. Op. Plumb. Sol.nig.
Hypochondriacal humor, Ago. Anac. ImpatieRce, Dros. DulC. Hytlr. Ign. /pee.
Arn. Assa. Aur. BeU. Caust. Cham. Sod. chi. Sulpb.ac. Zinc.
, Cinch. Con. Euphr. Grat. HeU. Joel. Impetuo.Uy(vioieoce, vehemence),Aeon.
Mez. Mosch. Nuxv. Petr. Pho1. Puls. Anae. Bry. Oale. & Carb. v. Croc.
Sen. Sod. c. Stann. Staph. Val. Zinc. Nitr. ac. Nuz.v. Oleand.Pot.jod. Sep.
(eomp. See. 1.) Sod.e. Sod.ebl. Stroot. Zinc. (comp.
Hy1teric humor, Anac. A.Aa. Con. Grat. "1lying out".)
Motch. Viol. otl. (eomp. See. 1.) Impudence, Bell Pbos.
Idea, abundant, Cann. Cinch. Lacb. Inability, to exprees oneeelf, Bell Cann.
Mur.ac.Op.Pho•.Pul6.Sabad.Stram. Lye. Nuxv. Pul& Thuy.
Tab. Tereb. Verb. Viol. otl. (eomp. - to mental labor, Aeon. Alwn. ABBr.
"exaltation and vivacity".) · L;yc. Laur. Lye. Phos. ac. Sel. Sep.
- - in the evening, before going w Sil. &tl. c. &tl. cAl. SoL m. Spig.
sleep, Cinch. Lye. Ruz v. Pu/.$. Spong. Staph. Tber. Thuy.
Sabad. Sil. Staph. Viol tric. - to re1lect, think, Aeon. Alum,. Cyc.
- - tJt n·ight, Calc.c. Calc.s. Cinch. Leur. Lvc. Phos. ac. SeL Sep. $il.
Cotr. Graph. Lvc. Nuzv. Pot.c. Sod.c. SOd.ehl. Sol.m. Spig. Thuy.
P1tU. Sabael. Sit Sod.bor. Stapla. Inattention,Oleanlt.Phos.ac.PUis.(comp.
Sulpb. Viol. tric. mental dissipation.)
- fixed, Aetb. Carb. v. Sulpb. . - ofchildren in lt>.arning, Bar.c.
- unsteady, Aeon. P1tU. Staph. Tab. Incomtancy, Assa. Bism. I~ Op.
Val. Viol. otl. Zinc. Indjfference(Gleichgiiltigke1t),Are.Ailsa.
- wanting, Verat. :Derb. Calc. c. Cann. Clem. Con. Dig.
Jealowy, Hyosc. Lllch. Euphr. Hydr. Lye• .Men. Pkos. ac.
Rl humor, Alum. Ang. Arg. AsM. Bell. Pia:t. Rhm. Rilotl. Sabin. Sep. Staph.
Calc. c. Cocc. Cor. Cvc. Hydr. chi. Verb.
corr. Mgn.m. Spig. 'l'huy. (camp. - respecting his busin688, Stram.
"discontentedness, fretfulness, irk- - - his relations, &p. ·
sameness".) Indigfttltion, Sod.c. Staph.
lllutimu, offimcy (Phantasie-Tiiuschun- lnducretion, Caps. Men. Puis.
gen), Amb. BellCalc. c. Hydr. Mgn.& Indolence (Theilnahmlosigkeit), Amm.m.
Op. Phos. ac. Sabad. Staph. Stram. Dig. Men. Plat. Sod.ehl.
Tox. Val. (comp. "Imaginations and Infirmity ofthe mind, Sod.c.
visions".) Inhumanity, Anac. .
- - at night, BeU. Cham. Hydr. Led. Imanity, madnetlll (Wahnsinn), Aetli.
Phos. Stram. Aman. Ant. •· Ars. BeU.Cann. Canth.
- of feeling (Gefuhlstiiuaehnng), Jod. Oic. Coec. Con. Croc. Ourr. Hydr.
Val Hyosc. Lllch. Lye. Myr. tJp. Phoe.
- ofthe senses, see the above. Pfumb. Sec. Stram. Sulph: Tereb.
Irnt11finationt, of~ ofhis-own body, Verat.
Sabad. lmanity attended by: ,
- of being double or having two heads, - countenance, pale, Croc.
Mosch. - headache, Croe.
- of greatness of his own body, Plat. -look, wild, Cupr.
Staph. Stram. - obscuration ofsight, Croc.
- of humility and lowness of others, - ophtbnlmy, Cupr.
Plat. Staph. '- perspiration succeeding, Cupr.
- many, Verat. (comp. "illusione of - pulse, quick, Cupr. ,
fancy".) - wantonneSB, Hyo.c. Stram. Verat.
- of being poisoned or sold, BellHyoec. Intenlibility, mental, BJ08C. Phoe.ae.
Tox. S&ram. .
D,9,;ized by Coogle
5. Affections of the mind.
JMJ1f111.8U, Croe: Ign. Laeh. Men. Plat. Mania a potu; Ar•. Hydee. Nuxv. Op.
Sulph. Tar. · · Stram.
Joyfulneu (FrOhliehkeit),Cann. Carb.a. Medital4on (Naehdenkliehkeit), PhelL
Croe. Men. Zinc. (comp. "hilarity".) Thuy.
- in the evening or at noon, Z'me. Melo.nclwly, Agn. Anae. Arr. Asar. Aur.
Joylelmu• (Freudelosigkeit, Unheiter- Calc. c. Camt. Cocc. Cupr. Hell.
keit), Anac. Calc. c. Cham. Laur; H!J08C. Jod.'Lye. Phos. Plumb. PuJs.
Nitr. ac. 01. Phor. Sabin. SiL Sod.chi. &c. SeL Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. cbJ.
(comp. "dejection".) Stram. Sulph. Sulph.ae. Tab. Verat.
Irktomenur (Venlriessliehkeit), Aeth. (comp. "dejection, despair, grief,
Alwp.Amm.c. Amm.m. Ant.s. Asar. pensiveness, sadness".)
Aur. Carb. a. Cinch. Cye. Evon. Grat. '- religious, Lye. Sulph.
Guaj. H~r. Ind. Kram. Lach. Led. Memory, acute, Cyc.
Mgn. m. Mang. Mar. Mez. Mur. ae. - loss of, Bry. Camph. Hyoec. Petr.
Oleand. PAo11. ac. Puis. Rhm. Sabin. Pot.c. Sil. Stram. Verat.
Samb. Sass.Scill. Sod.s.Stann. Staph. - weakness of, Aeon. Alum. Anac. Aur.
&ront. SulpA.ac. Thuy. Tong. Verb. Berb. Bov. Calc.& Carb. v. Caust.
Zinc. (comp. "fretfulness, ill humor Colch. Con~ Cyc. Dig. Guaj.. Hell.
&c.") Hydr. Laur. Mez. Myr. Oleand.
- in the evening, Mgn. c. Puis. Zinc. Plumb. Sabin. Sep. Sil. SOd. chl. 8pig.
-in the morning, Amm.c. Staph.Sulph. Tox.Verb.Viol.od.Zine.
- in the open air, Aeth. Sabin. - - sudden and periodical, Carb. v.
I"esolution, &r. c. Ferr. mgn. lgn. Jod. Mental abstraction, dissipation (Zer-
Nuxv. Petr. Puis. Tar. · streutheit), Agn. Amm.c. Ang. Bov.
Irritability, Amm. m. Aur. Bry. Calc. s. Caust. Cham. Oroc. Graph. Hydr.
Carb.v. Con. Graph. Jod. Ipec. Lv?· Mang. Nuxv. Gleand. 01. Plat. PUZ..
Mar. Phor. Pot. c. Ran. b. Sen. ~iL Sep. Sil. Sod. chi. Sulph.ac. Verb. •
Stram. Sod. bor. Sod. chi. Sulph. - derangement, Aur. Bell. Canth. Con.
Sulph. ae. Cupr. Hyorc. Led. Myr. Plat. Sec.
Irritatwn, Ars.A888.Cale.c. Mar.Sulph. Stram. Verat. (comp. "insanity".)
(comp. excitement.) - - after fright and vexation, :bell.
- exceseive, Ang. Am. Asar. Calc.s. Plat.
Carb. a. Cham. Cinch. Cocc. Co.ff. - hebetude, dulness, Ant. s. 'Ars. Cham.
Hydr. lgn. Mar. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Cyc. Hell. Laur. Lye. Mez. Oleand.
Pulr. Val. (eomp. ''over-irritation, in Phos.ac. Plumb.Ran.b.RhDL Spong.
Sec. 1.") Staph. Sulph.ac. Tox. (comp. "ina-
Lamenting, Aeon. Artem. Bism. Nuxv. bility to reflect, senses, dulness of".) '
Laughing, Aur. Bell..Cic. Con. Croc. -labor, inable to, see •·inability".
Hyosc.Ign. Myr.Phos. Sod.chi.Stram. . - relaxation, Set Sen. Sod.chi. Spong.
Sulph. Tar. Verat. Verb. (comp. con- Stann. (comp. the above.)- .
vulsive laughing, Sec. 1.) - vivacity, Alum~ Ang. Cann. Coff.
- in the open air, Myr. Lach. (comp. exaltation, the next.)
- sardonic, Ran.sc. Sol.nig. Merriment,excessive, An8'· Verat. (comp.
- at things serious, Anac. joyfulness, exaltation.)
Lickerishnet~s, see Sec. 16. Mild temper, Croo. Cupr. Lye. PuC.. SiL
Longing (Sehnsucht), Ant.s. Aur. Mind, absence of, Agn. Amm. c. Anac.
- for company, Mez. Stram.· (comp. Myr. (comp. "unconsciousnesa", and
"aversion to solitude".) the articles under "mental".)
Looking at is intolerable (in children), - oppressionof(Beklommenhelt),Evon.
Ant. s. Graph. Jod. Ran. b.
Loquacity,Bov. Coff. Grat. Hyosc. Jmnb. -as ifseparated from the body, Anac.
Jod. Lach. Mar. Par. Sel. Stram. Tab. Misanthr?I/Y• Led. Ph08.(comp."aversion,
Tar. Verat. hatred .) ·
Love .d~ppointed; Hyos. Ign. Phor.ac. Misapplying, misplacing words or ryl-
- w1th Jealousy, Hyosc. · ltibles, Alum. Amm. c. Bov. Calc.c.
- with silent grief, fgn. Phos.tJc. Caust. Cham. Graph. Lye. Nuxv.
, Low spiritr, see."dt>jection". Pot. c. Sep. Sil. Sod.chi.
LudicrOtUnelll, Bell. Oroc. Cupr. Hyosc. Misreckoning, Amm. c. .
Lach. Stram. (comp. "jooosenesa".) Milltcriting, Amm.c. Bov. Oann. Graph.
M111dness, 11ee "insanity". NtJx v. Puis. Sep. Sod. chi.
Malice, malicioumess (Bosheit, Tacke), Moaning, Aeon. Artem. BeD. Cic. Colch.
Bell. Cupr. Nice. Nuxv. Hydr. Scill. Stram.
Digitized by Coogle ..
._....._,_
_
_
5. Affections of the mind. 469
Moekerg (Spott, Satyre), Laeh.
.Moroseness, Bism. Clem. Coloo. Cupr.
Evon. lpec. Led. Pula. Rhod. Sass.
Sulph. Thea. Verb. Viol. tric. Zinc.
Murder, inclination to; Hgosc. Stram.
Murmuring, Stram. Lach.
Oblitrion, see "forgetfulness".
Obstinac!f, Nux v. Stram.
Obstttptjaction, see Sec. 6.
Openheartedness, Bov.
OTJerrating ofoneself, Plat.
. Peevishness, see "Irksomeness".
Pensiveness, Amm.m. Berb. Caust. Cooc.
Nic. Sep. Stann. Tab. (comp. "Melan-
choly.")
- religious, Ars, Aur. Puis.
Perplexity, in company,. Amb.
Pertinacy, Caps. Dros. Stram.
Petulancy (Muthwille), Phell. Spong.
Phantasmoscopia, see "visions".
Phlegmat-ic temperament, Caps. Sen.
Puls.
Pleased with his own talking, Par.
Positiveness(Rechthaberei), Caust. Lach.
Prediction of the day ofdeath, Aeon.
Prophecying, Aman. · ·
Pusillanimity (Kleinmuth), Ang. Bar.c.
Bry. Carb. v. Cinc(l. Ran. b. (comr,..
"selfconfidence wanting, timidity.')
- in the evening, Ran. b.
Quarrelsomeness, Aur. Camph. Caust.
Dulc: Ferr. Hydr. Hyosc. Kram. Nic.
Nux v. Pot. jod. Ran. b. Rut. Sep.
Sod. s. (comp. censoriousness, re-
proaches.)
- m the forenoon, Ran. b. ·
Rancor (Groll), Nitr. a.c.
Rashness (Uebereilung, Unbesonnen-
heit), Caps. Men. Puis.
Recollection, difficult, Berb. Jod. Sabin.
Thuy.
- vivid, Croc.
Reflections, on death, Nux v. Zinc.
- difficult, see "thinking".
- profound, Op.
- sorrowful, Caust.
- unpleasant, Bar. c. Sod. chi.
Relaxation, mental, see "mental".
Religious afflictions of the mind, Ars.
Aur. Lye. Puis. Sel. Sulph.
Reluctance, see "aversion".
Repentance, immediate, Croc. Oleand.
Reproaches, Aeon, Lye. Nux v.
Reservedness (Verschlossenheit,. stille
Laune), Carb. a. Euph. Euphr. Grat.
Hell. Ign. Lye. Mang. Mur. ac.
Nitr. ac. 01. Phos. ac. Plumb. Stann.
(comp. Taciturnity.)
Resistance, Caps. Nuxv.
Restlessness, Aeth. AI. Amb. Arn. Ars.
Artem. Assa. Aur. Bell. Bov. Bry.
Calc. c. Canth. Catb. v. Cham. Coloc.
Dig. Dro~ Dulc. (h~lr.. l!!Jdr; ·Jod.
Lack. Lam. Laur. ..MiZ11.·Op. Pkos.
Phos. ac. Plumb.·Pot.c. Pulf. Sabad.
Sil. Sod. c. Sol. m. Spig. Stann. Staph.
Stram.. Sulph. Sulp'h: ac. Tab. Thuy.
Tox. Verat. (comp. "anxiety", and
Sec.l.) ·.
Reitle:rsness, when alone, Mez. Ph.os.
- in the evening, Carb. v. Hydr. Laur.
Nuxv. Phos. .
- at night, Graph. (comp. Sec.3.)
- during mental occupation, Amb.
Sod.c. · · ·
- in the open air relieved, Laur.
- during a thunder-storm, Sod. c. ,Sod;
chi. Phos.
Rhyming, Aman.
Risus sardonicus, Ran. sc. Sot nig.
Sadness, Agn. Amb. Amm. c. Bell. Bov.
Calc. s. Cann. Carb. a. Cast. Clem.
Cocc. Con. Croc. Dig. Ferr. Graph.
Ign. Jod. Lam. Men. MeZ. Mur. ac.
Nitr. ac. Nux v. Oleand. ' Ol. Phell.
Phos. Phos. ac. Plat. Pot.c. Puts.Sec.
Sep. Sod. c. Sod. chl. Spig; Staph.
Stram. Sulph.Viol. od. VioL ttiC. ~me.
(comp. "anxiousness, dejection.'")
- when alenP, Bov. · · ·
- by consolation increased; SOd;ebJ.
-in the evening, Plat. Ran,sc. Stram.
Zinc.
- - relieved, Amm. c.
- at noon, Zinc.
- about health, domestic affairs, futu-
rity &c., see "Solicitude".
Scoldmg, Bell. Cor. Hyosc. Ipec. Petr.
Verat. (comp. "cursinf.)
Screaming, see "shrieking '.
Scrupulosity, scrupulousness (Bedenk-
lichkeit, Gewissenhaftigkeit), Aur.
Bar. c. Cinch. Graph. Nux v. Sil.
Sulph. Thuy.
- anxious, lgn. Sulph.
Self-confitlence, wanting, Ang. 'Bar. c.
Oleand. Stram. Ther. (comp. "Pusil-
lanimity, timidity".)
Self-contradiction, Anac.
Senses, dulness of, Alum. Assa. Caps.
Cham. Stram. (comp. "mental hebe-
tude".) 1
- illusions of, see "lllusions of phan-
tasy, visions".
- obscuration of, Ant. tart. Camph.
Mang. Stram. Vernt.
- suspension of, transient (Unbesinn-
lichkeit), Agn. Alum. Anac. Aur.
Bov. Dry. Camph. Canth. ChPI. Cic.
Con. Lye. Myr. Oleand. 01. Plat.
Ran. sc. Rhod. Sod. chl. Stann. Stram.
Sulph. Tox. Zinc.
- - when stooping, Sulph. .
- vanishing of, seP. the foregoing.
40
Digitized by Coogle
470 5. Affections of the mind.
&n.elelmeu, Aee uncomrcioU8De& To commit IUicide, disp., by drownin~,
Senftbility, of the mind, Ang. Calc.c. Ant. s. Pula. Sec,
Cann. Jod. Lye. Samb. Sen. Sep. - by shooting, Ant.s;
Sulph. VioL od. (comp. Sec. I.) Smpicion, see "distrust".
- exceesive, Arn. Coce. Coff. Nw:v. Taciturnity, HeU. Verat. (comp. "to
- when looked at, Ant.s. talk, aversion, reservedness".)
-for offences, Ang. Cann. Sen. Talking, slow, Thuy.
- to noise, talking of others &e., see -quick, hasty, Bell. Calc.a.
Sec.IO. · - about the faults ofothers, Ars. Verat.
Sentimentality, Cast. /jrn. Lach. (comp."censoriousness,reproaches".)
Shrielting, Arn. Bell. Cham. Canth. To talk, disinclination, Aman. Amb.
Coff. Jalap. Ipee. Plat. Rhm. Sen. Amm.m. Arg. Bell. Bry. Clem. Coloe.
Stram. Verat. Cye. Euphr. Hydr. ~n. Mgn. m. Nice.
- for aid, Plat. Plws. ac. Plumb. Rlun. Sabin. Sod.
- in children, Artem. Bell. Cham. Cott chi. Sod. s. Stann. Staph. Sul.Ph· ac.
Jalsp.lpec. RAm. Senn. Sod. bor. Tab. Thea. Tong. Verat. V1oL od.
Sighing, Ign. Plumb. (comp. Sec.29.) VioL tric. Zinc.
Singing (trilling and whistling), BelL Talkativene11, see "Loquacity".
Croe. Cupr. Mar. Spong. Tab. Vc!'at. Tearifl(f things, BelL \'erat.
Silent humor, ·see "reservedness". Tementy, Op.
Slanderotu disj)08ition, Ipee. (comp. Thinking (reflection), difficult, Amm. c.
"cursing, scolding".) · · Assa. Aur. Berb. Calc. c. Cllrb. v.
Sluggishne68, Euphr. Ferr. magn. Guaj. Con. Lye. Men. Nitr. ae. Petr. Ran. b.
Hell. Ind. Mar. Nw: v. Oleand. Rhm. See. Sep. Sod.c. Sulph. Ther.
(comp~ Sec. I.) -slow, see "Course of thinking".
- ofmind, Joel. Phoe.ac. Ran. (comp. To think (reflect), inability, Aeon. Alum.
"Relaxation, aversion to mental )it. Cyc. Laur. Lye. Phos. ac. SeL Sep.
bour," &e.) Sil. Sod. c. Sod. chl. SoL m. Spig.
Sobbing, HelL Thuy.
SolicitUde, Alum. Calad. Chel. Cinch. Thought1, abundance, aggregation of,
. Euph. Jod. Mur. ac. Ran. (comp. see "ideas".
"apprehensions".) -confused, Carb. ac. Cinch. Con.
- about domestic affairs, Bar. Pull. Sep. Phos. ac.
- - futurity, Anac. Ant. s. Ant. tart. - sorrowful, profound, see "reflections".
- Bry. Caust. CheL Dig.Dros. Phos. - unsteady, wanting, see "ideas".
Phos. ac. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Spig. - vanishing, Asar. Bry. Camph. Cann.
Staph. Thuy. · Guaj. Hell. Hydr. Jod. Mez. OJ. Ran. b.
- - health, Bry. Calc.c. Nitr.ac. Phos. Rhod. Sod. bor.
. Sep. . - weakness of, Ars.
--his soul's welfare, Lye. Sulph. Thoughtle11ne11, Alum. Amb. Anac.
Solitude, aversion to, Ars. Bism. Bov. Bell. Canth. Cic. Cupr. Evon. Guaj.
Co.i. Lye.Mez. (Pho1. Stram.) (comp. . HelL Myr. Phos. ac. Rut. Sod. chi. ·
"longing for company".) Spig. Tox. ·
- love of, Jamb. Nice. Tox. (comp. - in the morning, Guaj.
"Company avoided".) Time seems to pass too quickly, Cocc.
Somnambulism, Aeon. Pho1. Stann. Ther.
Sorrow (Kummer), Amm.m. Caust. --too slow, at night, Nw:v.
- about health, domestic affairs, &e., Timidity (Schiichternheit, Verzagtheit),
see "Solicitude". Anac. Dar. c. Bell. Pot. nitr. Puls.
--futurity, Sod.c. Sod. chi. Sil. Verb. ~comp. "Pusillanimity, self-
SorrOtDjul thought•, reflections, at night, confidence'.)
CaUit. Uncomcioume81(Bewustlosigkeit), Aeth.
With 3pectre1 conversation, Stram. Arn. Bell. Calc. c. Camph. Canth.
From1piritU0U1liquors, mental derange- Cic. Cocc. Cupr. Hell. Hyosc. Laur.
ment, Ars. Hyose. Nuxv. Op. Stram. Mur. ac. Nux v. Op. Pho1. ac. Plat.
Spittin$", Bell. Plumb. Pot. c. Puls. Sec. Sod. chl.
Stupidtty, Ars. ()p. (comp. "imbecility, Stram. Tab. Verat. (comp. "Senses,
mental hebetuae".) suspension of".)
To commit suicide, disposition, Ant.s. -sudden, Pot.c. .
Ant. tart. Ars. Aur. Calc. s. Dros. Under1tanding, weakness of, Anac. Aur;
Nw:v. Pull. Sec. Spig. Tox. ~comp. Bar. c. Con. Op. (comp. "imbecility,
••weariness of life, despair, &e.') mental hebetude".)
Digitized by Coogle
r
l_
5. Affections of the mind.- 6. Cloudiness, dizziness, &c. 471
Unem11assioned mind (Theilnahmlosig-
ke~t), Amm. m. Dig. Men. Plat. Sod.
chi. (comp. indifThrence.)
Uninterested by outward affuirs, Berb.
(comp. the above.)
Vnsociableness, Anac. Bar. c. Cic. Con.
Hyosc. Lye. Puls. Sod. c. (comp.
"love ofsolitude, company avoided' .)
Vehemence, violence, see "impetuosity".)
Vexatiousness, see "fretfulness".
Visions, Bell. Berb. Calc. s. Samb. Tox.
(comp. "imaginations".)
- frightful, Bell. Samb.
Wandering talk, Aeth. Artem. Bell. Bry.
Camph. Canth. Cupr. Hydr. Hyosc.
Lach. Lye. Myr. Nux v. Op. Plat.
Plumb. Rhm. Stram.
- Of business, Bry. Hyosc.
- at night, Aur. Bell. Bry. Coloc. Dig.
Op. Rhm. Sep. Sulph.
Wanting pastime, Plumb.
Weakness of understanding, see "under-
standing".
Weariness of life, Amb. Amm.o. Ant. s.
Ars. Aur. Berb. Carb. v. Hydr. Phos.
Plumb. Sep. Sil. Sod.c. Stap,h. Sulph.
ac. Thuy. (comp. "suicide'.)
To weep, inclination, readiness, Amm. c.
Amm. m. Ars. Artem. Aur. Bar. c.
Bell. Calc. c. Calc. s. Camph. Canth.
Carb. v. Cast. Cham. Coif. Coloc. Con.
Dig. Graph. Hydr. Ign. Jod. Lam.
Lye. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Men. Nux v.
Phos. ac. ·Plat. Pot. jod. Puls. Rhm.
Rut. Sil. Sod.e. Sod. chl. Sod. s. Stann.
Sulph. Solph. ac. To'x. Verat. Viol.
trie.
To weep, inclination, readiness, in the
evening relieved, Amm. c. Cast.
- by music excited, Sod.s.
Weeping, whining, Alum. Artem. Bell.
Bry. Carb. a. Caust. Cham. Coff.
Cupr. Graph. }Iell. Mez. Phos. Plat.
Pot. c. Ran. Sabin. Sep. Sod. chl.
Staph. Stram. Viol. od. (comp. "howl-
ing, shrieking".)
- in children, when touched at, Ant. s.
Ant. tart. Artem.
Wickedness, Anac.
Wild excitement, Ant. tart. Op,
To work, inclination, Cic. Dig. Euph.
Sass. Verat.
- - with heat and tremor, Psor.
- disinclination, Alum. Aman. Amm. c.
Amm. m. Assa. Bell. Caust. Cinch.
Colch. Con. Cupr. Ev~n. Graph. Jod.
Laur. Mar. Mez. N1tr. ac. Nux v.
Oleand. Phos. Plumb. Ran. sc. Rhod.
Rut. Sabad. Scill. Sil. Sod. chl. Staph.
Sullh. Tab. Tar. Ther. Tong. Tox.
Vio . tric. Zinc.
- - mental, Cinch. Jod. Nitr. ac. Par.
Petr. Scill. Staph.
Wrangling, Caust. (comp. "Quarrel-
someness".)
Yielding, pliable mind, Lye. Puls. Sil.
6. Cloudiness, dizziness, giddiness.
(Benebelung, Eingenommenheit, &hwindel.) ·
AffectUm, fatigue (Angegriffenheit) of
the head, by mental labour, Aur.
Bar. m. Calc.c. Graph. Lye. Mgn.e.
Nu:x: 11. Phos. Puls. Sel. Sil. Sod. c.
Sod. chi. (eomp. headache from men-
tal exertion, see.7.)
- in general, Led.
- from nocturnal oecup8tion, Coleh.
Set.
Cloudineu (Benebelung) in general,
Calad. Coee. Mgn. m. Nu:x: 11. ~·
Phell. RAm. Samb. Val.
11) kind.
- dull, Amm. m. Ant. tart. Bism. Calc.c.
Caust. Jod. Ly~. 01. Plr.M. Pot. c.
· Ran. b. Samb. S&l. Sod.ebl. Verat.
- like intoxicated, Alum. Aman. Ant. a.
Arg. Aur. BeU. Berb. Bov. Dry.
Camph. Cap•. Caust. Cham. Coce.
Con. Cor. Croe. Graph. Hrose. Jamb.
Laur. Led. Lye. Moseb.. Myr. Nuxv.
Op. Plumb. Puls. Rhod. Bee. Sil.
fjpig. Stram. Thuy. Tong. To~. Val
Verat.
, ) condition.
Cloudine11, dulnu•, into.riciJlion appear-
~gh: • A B' C •
- m t e mornmg, man. 18111. a.c.c.
Cham. Gra)'h. Mgn.m. Plr.os. Verat.
- in the evewng, Sif.
- after eating and drinking, Bell. Croe.
- in the open air, Aman.
- - relieved, Amm.m.
- afterscratchingbehindthe ear, Calc.c.
- from tobacco smoking, Alum.
- when walking, Camph.
- from a little wine, BOv. Con. COr.
c) connezion.
- with droWBiness, Arg. Tong.
- with tremor, Cale. e.
Dizzine11, indistinetne81!1 (Eingenom-
menheit) of the head, in ·general,
Aeon. Aetlr.. Amb. Ang. Ant. tart.
Ang. Am. Asar. Bism. Bnl. Calc. c.
Caps. Cauet. Cinch. Cor. Croe. Di(.
nro.. Ep. Hydr. Hyose. Jod. Mgn. m.
Mgn. a. Men. Mez. ·Myr_. Nu:x: 11. 01.
op. Par. Phos. ao. PltJt. PluJDb· Puis.
Digitized by Coogle
472 6. Cloudine5s, dizziness, giddiness.
Ran. b. Rhm. Rhod. Samb. Sec. Sen.
Sep. Sod. nitr. Spig. Staph. Sulph. ac.
Ther. Thuy. Tong. Tox. Val. Viol.
tric. Zinc.
a) place.
Dizziness, &c. appearing:
- in the occiput, Amb. Carb. a. Plumb..
Sec. Tong.
- on one side, Sulph. ac.
b) l1ind.
- like a board before the head, Calc. c.
Dulc. Plat.
- gloomy (diistere), Ang. Arg. Calad.
Clem. Dig. Hydr. Men. Nux v. Op.
Phos. Sil. Sod. c. Thea. Zinc.
- as after intoxication, Ang. Carb. a.
Cor. Mgn. m. Mez. Nux v. Op. Phos.
ac. Pot. nitr. Puls. Rhm. Samb. Thuy.
Val.
- long continued, Calc. c.
- as from mental exertion, Sod.nitr.
- as if muddled (Wiistheit), Aman.
Anac. Ant. s. Al·s. Assa. Bry. Cor.
Euphr. Ferr. Men. Nuxv. Puis. Sec.
Sen. Staph. Tab. Thuy.Verb. Viol. od.
Viol. tric.
- as if nailed up, Aeon. Aeth. Mgn. s.
Plat.
- painful, Ang. Arn. Assa. Asar. Caust.
Dros. Ep. Myr. Plat, Sec. Sod. chl.
Viol. od.
- 11s after seminal emissions, Mez.
Phos. ac.
- like smoke in thebrain,Arg. Sulph. ac.
- stunning(dummliche), Ang. Ant.tart.
Arg. Asar. Aur. Cocc. Croc. Dulc.
Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Mez. Par. Pot. c.
Rhm. Verb.
- as if uurefresl1ed by sleep, Rut.
- as from watching all night, Amb.
Bry. Cinch. Nuxv. Puis.
c) condition.
- in the morning, Clem. Mgn. m. Phos.
Rlwd. Rut. Thuy. Zinc.
- in, the evening, Euphr. ·Rut.
- at night, Psor.
-after dinner, Nu,xv. (comp. Sec.l7.)
- from mental exertion, Cocc.
- in the open air, relieved, Ars. Men.
- when at rest, Sod. c. .
- in a room, Aeon. Ars. Men. Sod. c.
- in a warm room, Aeon.
- by suppqrting the head, relieved, Ep.
- when walkin!l', Thea.
d) connexwn.
Dizziness attended by:
- affection of the eyes, Croc. Op. Rhm.
Sen.
- drow~Siness, Ant. tart. Rbod.
- knocking in the forehead, Ang.
- nausea, Thuy.
Drunkenness, see intoxication.
Giddiness, in general: Aeon. Aeth. Alum.
Aman. Amb. Amm. c. Amm. m. Anac.
Ant. s. Ant. tart. Arn. Asar. Bell. Bry.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Campb. Carb. a.
Carb. v. Caust. Cic. Cocc. Con. Croc.
Cupr. Dig. Ferr. Graph. Hydr. Hyosc.
Jamb. Jgn. Ipec. Lach. Lact. Laur.
Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mgn.s. Mosch.
Myr. Nice. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Oleand.
01. Op. Par. Petr. Plws. Phos. ac.
Plat. Plumb. Pot. c. Puis. Ran. b.
Ran. sc. Rhod. Sabad. Sass. Sec. Sel.
Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. bor. Sod. c. Sod. chl.
~od. s. Spig. Spong. Stann. Stram.
Sulpl1. Sulph. ac. 'l'ab. Tar. Thea.
Ther. Thuy. 'l'ox. 'Val. Verb. Viol.od.
Viol. tric. Zinc.
a) place.
- in the forehead, Rhm.
- in the occiput, Cinch. Zinc.
b) kind.
- of almost every kind, Nux v. Phos.
Sec. Sil. Sulph.
- along the back rising up, Sil.
- chronic, Nuxv. Petr. Phos. Sec.
- in a circular motion, Con.
- with a drawing sens., Zinc.
- malting one fall, Aeon. Alum, Aman.
Arn. Ars. Bell. Berb. Cann. Caust.
Cic. Coloc. Con. Dros. Eupb. Ferr.
Led. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Mez. Phell.
Plumb. Ran. b. Rhm. Rhod. Rut.
Sabin. Scill. Sil. Sod. chi. Spig. Spong.
Tereb. 7'ox. Zinc.
- - backwards, Led. Tox.
--forwards, Arn. Ferr. Ran. b.
Sod. chi. Tox.
- - sidewards, Cann. Con. Dros.
Eupb. Mez. Rhm. Scill. Zinc.
- reeling, Bell. Bry. Camph. Caust. Cic.
Croc. Ferr. Lye. Mgn. m. M~r. 01.
Phos. ac. Sec. Sen. Spong. Stram.
Tab. Tar. Tereb. Thuy. Verat. Viol.
tric. (comp. "cloudiness, like intoxi-
cation".)
- as from riding in a carriage, Ferr.
- as from rocking, Calad.
- from the stomach proceding, Pot. c.
- like swinging, Calad. Ferr. Hydr.
Thuy. Zinc.
- turning (vertigo), Anac. Arn. Assa.
Bell. Bar. m. Berb. Bism. Bry. Calad.
Chel. Cic. Con. Cupr. Euph. Evon.
Ferr. Grat. Lye. Mur. ac. Nux .v.
Oleand. Plws. Puis. Ran. b. Rhod.
Rut. Sod. chl. Sod. s. Staph. Tab.
Val. Verat. Viol. od.
c) condition.
- in the morning, Alum. Aman. Carb.a.
Cham. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Nice. Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. PltQs. Pot. c. Puls. Rut. Scill.
Sep. Sil. Sulph. Zinc.
Digitized by Coogle
,
6. Cloudiness, dizziness, giddiness. 478
Giddiness:
- at noon, Arn. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Nux v.
Phos. Sod. s.
- in the afternoon, Sep.
- in the evening, Amm. c. Ars. Calc. s.
Hydr. Mgn. c. Nuxv. Phos. Phos. ac.
Plat. Pot. c. Puis. Sod. s. Spong.
Sulph. Tox.
- - m bed, Nuxv. Staph. Tox.
- at night, Spong. Sulph.
- at different times, Phos. Sec. Sil.
Sulph.
- when ascending, Sod. bor.
- - an eminence, Calc. c.
- when casting down the eyes, Oleand.
Spig.
- when closing the eyes, Ars. Calad.
Grat.
- from coffee, Cham.
- while eating, Arn. Mgn. m.
- when entering into the open air,
Ran. b.
- when exercising, Cinch. Pot. c.
- after fright, Op.
- from gaping, Aman.
- when gazing for a while at some-
thing, Sass.
- from the li~ht of the sun, Aman.
- when looking back, Con.
- when looking at a height, Cupr.
Plumb. Thuy.
- when looking up, Puis. Sil.
-when lying down, Ferr. Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. Tox.
- after lying down, Calad. Mgn. c.
- in lying, Calad. Rhod. Staph. Thuy.
- -.relieved, PheLL
- during meals, Arn. Mgn. m.
- after meals, Cham. Mgn. s. Nux v.
Petr. Pot. c. Puls. Sod.s. Sulph. Tox.
(comp. Sec.l7.)
- from mental exertion (reading, writ-
ing, &c.), Aman. Amm. c. Arn. Cupr.
Grat. Sep. Sod. b. Sod. c.
- when moving and turning the head,
Aeon. Arn. Calc. c. Calc. s. Carb. a.
Carb. v. Mosch. Pot. c.
- in the open air, Aman. Amb. Ang.
Calc. c. Canth. Dros. Ran. b. Rut.
Sep. Sulph. Tar. Thea.
- - relieved, Amm. m. Mgn. s. Phell.
Phos. ac. Sulph. ac.
- when pressing the chee-k, Verb.
- when raising up the body, Aeon. Arn.
Ars. Dell. Bry. Carb. a. Cic. Cocc.
Con. Laur. Op. Puis. Zinc.
- - the head, Arn. Cinch. Coloc.
- from reading, Amm. c. Arn. Cupr.
Grat. Par. .
- - loud, P._ar.
- when riding in a nhicle, Calc. s.
Sil.
Giddiness:
- when rising from bed, Cham. Mgn. m.
Nice. Phos. Rut. Sep. Sod. chi. Tox.
- - from sitting, Aeon. Asar. Bry.
Lauf. Petr. Sabad. Thuy.
- - fromsupineposition,Croc. Oleand.
Petr. Sel.
- in a room, Amm. m. Lye. Mgn. m.
Staph. Sulph. ac.
- - m a warm room, Lye.
- when passing a running water, Ang.
Ferr. Sulph.
- in sitting, Amm. c. Evon. Grat. Lach.
Nitr. ac. Phos. Puls. Rut. Stann.
Staph. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Viol. od.
- after sleep, Carb. v.
- in !'tanding, Cann. Cyc. Oleand.
Phos. ac. Rhm. Spig.
- from stooping, Aeon. Anac. Bar. c.
Dell. Bry. Led. Lye. 01. Petr. Plumb.
Ther. Val.
- from strong sounds, Ther.
- when supporting the head, relieved,
' Sabad.
- when talkin~, Par. Sod. bor.
- after relaxatiOn, Calc. c.
- when walking, Anac. Ant. tart. Arn.
Asar. Cann. Cic. Ipee. Nitr. ac. Phos.
ac. Sod. chi. Spi~. Viol. tric.
- - in the open a1r, Amb. Ang. Calc. c.
Dros. Rut. Sep. Sulph. Tar. Thea.
- after walking, Laur.
- - relieved, Staph.
- after wine, Bov, Sod. c. Zinc.
- when writing, Sep.
II) connexion.
Giddiness attended by:
- anxiety, anxiousness, Dell. Canst.
Hydr. Myr. Rhod.
- bell,Y-ache, Spig.
- bram, motion in, Cyc. Grat.
- chokinu, Sil.
- coffee, Yonging for, Myr.
- countenance, pale, Puis.
- death, fear of, Tox.
- delirium, Myr.
- distance of things seeming greater,
Anac. Stann.
- drowsiness, Aeth. Arg. Laur.
- ears, buzzing in, Puis. Sen.
- epistaxis, Carb. a. Sulph.
- eructation, sour, Sass.
- eyes, glistering, Ant. tart. Bell. Jgn.
Mez. Oleand.
--obscuration, Aeon. Anac. Arg.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Canth. Carb. a.
Cic. Hydr. Hyosc. Laur. Nux v.
Oleand. Par. Puis. Sabad. Sabin.
Stram. Tereb. Zinc.
- - pain in, Tab.
- - shut, Arg.
- headache, Ars. Bar. c. Lach. Phos.
474 6. Cloudi~ess, dizziness, giddiness. - 7. Interior bead.
&ram. Tab. (comp. "head..uhe wj&b
~") · .
Gil4lineu ~db~:_ . .. . . .
- .head. tuln~•dn, SocJ, bOr. · · .
- - l!ea.t ip, Pula. ·..
- - humming in, Sod.&
- - jerks in, Sod.chi. .
~ - m~ec;l, see ''dizzineea".
- - rolling in, Sep. . . •..
- - weakilees a,nd heavillell!llt CampA.
Ca1£1t. Cinch.,} Cupr. ~ .m.
Rhod. Sjong. ·.~
-. heat, Hydr'. .
- hypochondriac humor, Pho&
- inverted appearauee of things, Jamb.
- to lie down, neeefl!lity, Amb. ~OIICh.
Nitr. ae. ()p. . . . •
- motion, turning,-wavering.~(ore the
eyes, An~e. Laur. MOf!Ch. Oleand.
Sep. Sod. ehl.
- nape, burning sensation in, Alw;n.
- nawea, ~con. Amm. e. Ant. 1. Ant.
tart. Arn. )Jar, c. Bell. Calad. C.Ie. &
Carb. a. Hydr. Mo1ch. Poo1• .Pull.
Sabad. Sus. Scill. 8&1. Sod. bor. Spig.
Spong. Strol\t. Tab. Ther.
- obetupefaetion, Bov. Psor..see "ob-
stu~fuetion". . . .
- u tf the seat were moving, Zinc.
- - became elevated, PhO& _
- eens,es, SI1Sp8n& of, Ant. tart. Camph.
Stram. Verat, (CQJDp. "unco~ious-
ness".) ·· .
- shudflering, CheL
Giddinu. attended by:
.- sight, obecuration of, see "eyes"•.
- speach, difficult, Par. ·
- stomach, pain in, Amb.
- !JJDeope, Calc. a. Cham. Croc. Mgn.c.
Sa~d. .
- torpor, Myr.
- totterinf (Schwanken), ~ry. Cham.
Coloc. .pee. Mur. ae. Ntec. Nux v.
Oleand. Petr. Pot.c. Stram. Tar. •
- tremor, Dig. · . .
- unconsciousneee, Bell Cantb. Laur.
Sod. bor. Tab.
- to vomit, inclination, Cocc. Lye.
Pull.
- vomiting, Sod. a. Ther.
- wandering talk, Myr.
- weakne88, Nice. Zinc. .
IntoJ:ication, see •:eloudineae like.intoxi-
cated". . • ,.
,M,tuldled head, see "dizziness a~ ifmudd-
led". .
Ohltupef~ion, Aat. tart. Bell. Bov, Bey.
Carb. a. Cyc. Laur. Led. Mo1ch. OL
Op. Plumb. Sabin. Sec. Spig. Stram•
. Sulph. Tab. Tox. Val. Zinc.. ·
-in the morning, Carb.a.
- when re.tleeting and talking, Sod. bor.
Reeling, see "giddinees, reeling". .
.SenlelesiJ&ell, eee "See. 5." .
Staggering, see "giddine88, reeling''.
Stunni~, see "obstupefaetion". .
Uncop~cwwne81, see See. 5. ,
Vertigo, see "giddine~~B, turning".
7. Interior head.
('1lsutltloM, eoJtgution oftie blood, laeavUte.1, fulna•, cf'c-1
a) place. · . . .· . TQ the ~pe pressing, &bin.
In the braia,: ~ ~e, . AL .BOfl. - rendmg, Berb.
Lam. - 8p881D0d.ic, drawing, Mosch. Pot. nitr.
Over the eye$, pain, Aln. Bar.c. Cic. Fl'om the nape proceeding, Berb. Carb.v.
Croc. L:rc. J14n. · . Ferr. Pula. Sil.
- borin~, 01. ~ contracting, Pula.
- drawtng, Aman. .. . .. .. . :- drawing, Carb. v. Ferr.
- preesing, .Bar.c. &11. .C~b. v. Evtm. - rending, Ber~. .
Myr. 8ep. Sod.chl T~ , ~ve the root of the no1e, Bar.e.
- rendi~, Sod. ehl . :- boring, Calc.s.
- 8CJ,Ueezmg (klemmend), A&sa. Colcb. - compressing, Aeon. Moscb.
- stmginf., OL PbO& -e. SeL Sod. bor. - co~icting, Camph.
Sod.eh . Tox. . . -drawing, Aman. Aaar.
- stunning, s~pefying, Evon. . -~ gloomy making, Ferr.
- throbbing, Myr. - beavine~~B, Bilm. Staph.
Behind th~ ey,u, pain,.Ther. . - p~ng, Amm. m. Asar. Bar. e.
To the-face extended, drawing, Sen. Bism. Ign. Onisc. Viol.tric.
-rending, Amm.JQ. ,..A.JuM. Gwaj. Lye. -squeezing, Aeon. '
Th~y. .·. -stunning, Aeon. Ant. tart. ..\!ar.
- stinging, To~ Moscb. .
ForeAead,front, aee ''ainciput't. To the no1e ·extending, heada. Bism.
TG the nap_e e.xten~~~. Bar. c. Berb. .Ferr.0agn. Lye, Mez. Pot.nitr.Sod.c.
Moseh. J;'oL nita\ • · Stann. Tox.
Digitized by Coogle
7. Interior head. 475
To the nose boring and grubbing (wiih·
lend), Bism.
- contracting, Pot. nitr.
- pressing and throbbing, Mez.
-rending, Lye. Sod.c.
- spasmodic, Sod.c.
- stingin~, Tox.
In the occtput, pain, Anac. Bar. c. :Sec.
:Spig.
- from binding up the hair relieved,
Pot.nitr.
- bubbling like boiling water, Ind.
- burning, Ind. Tox.
- compressing, Pot. nitr.
- congestion of the blood, Sod. bor.
- constricting, Camph. Graph.
- drawing, Arg. Mgn. c. Mosch. Pot.
nitr. Zinc.
- fulness, Sulph.
- heaviness, Ant. tart. Carb. a. 2~fur. ac.
Plumb. Sod. chi. Sulph.
- jerking, Thuya.
- as from a plug, Arg.
- pressing, AI. Amb. Arg. Carb. v. Colch.
Grat. Ign. Petr. Pot. c. Sod. s. Zinc.
- rending, Amb. Amm. m. Berb. Nitr.
ac. Thuya. Zinc.
- shocks, Cann.
- soreness, Euph.
- spasmodic, Mosch. Pot. nitr.
- squeezing, Amb. lgn.
'
- stin~ing, Petr. Viol. tric. Zinc.
- tensiOn, Bar. Graph. Mgn.c. Mosch.
- throbbing, pulsating, Petr. Sep. Tox.
Ones·ided headache (hemicrania), Ant.
tart. Asar. Calc. c. Caps. Cham. Cic.
Coif. Coloc. Graph. Lye. Nuxv. Petr.
Pot. c. Puls. Ran. b. Sec. Sep. Spong.
- cleaving, chopping (hackend), Aur.
- coldness, Calc. c.
- drawing, Aeon. Cham. Coloc. Sep.
Valer.
- grubbing, Pot:jod. ~
- numbness, sens. of, 01.
- pressing, Aman. Caps. Coloc. Mez.
Preon. Verat. Verb.
- rending, Amart. Amb. A.nac. Cham.
Coccion. Colch. Guaj. Hydr. Phos.
Sep. Sil. Thuy.
- squeezing, spasmodic, Coloc. Sass.
- stingi~g, Bry. Caps. Coccion. Sep.
- stunmng, Mez. Verb.
- throbbing, pulsating, Ant. tart. Aur.
Croc. Pot.jod. Tong.
In the side upon which one lies, pain,
Calad. Graph. Mgn. c. Phos. ac.
In the sides of the head, pain, Cupr.
- as if bursting, Nice.
- compressing, Asar. Phell.
- drawing, Caps.
- itching, Dig.
- as from a nail pierced in, Coff. Staph.
•
In the sides of the head, as from a plug
pierced in, Assa. Plat.
- pressing, Assa. Sod. s.
- - outwards, Asar.
- rending, Caps. Dig. Guaj. Mar. Millef.
Zinc.
- squeezing, Scill.
In the sinciput and forehead, pain, Ant. s.
Bism. Camph. Cinch. Ep. Ther.
- boring, Ant. s. Bism. Calc. c. Dulc.
Ign.
- burning, Bisru. Bry. Dulc. Phos.
Stann. Tox. •
- bursting, as if, Ant. s. Bell. Oleand.
Sil. Sod. c. Spong.
- compressing, Cann.
- congestion of the blood, Mgn. s.
- constricting, Arn.
- contracting, Bism. Graph.
- drawing, Asar. Croc. Guaj. Mgn. c.
Rhod. Sabin. Sel. Sil. Sod. chl. Zinc.
- fulness, Aeon. Nice.
- grasping, Con. Sod. s.
- grubbing, Bism. Dulc.
- heat, Euph. Mgn. s. Phos. Sil. Viol. od.
- heaviness, Aeon. Amm.m. Ars. Bism.
Bruc. Calc. c. Nice. Plumb. Stann.
Staph.
- jerks, Thuy.
- numbness, sens. of, Mgn. m.
- as from a plug, Assa.
-pressing, Alum. Amb. Amm.m. Arg.
Arn. Asar. Assa. Bar.c. Berb. Bism.
Bry. Caust. Cic. Clem. Coloc. Dig.
Grat. Guaj. Hydr. Hyosc. Ign. Ind.
Mgn.m. Mar. Ol. Plat. Pot. c. Ran. b.
Rhm. Rhod. Sabad. Samb. Sen. Sod.
bor. Stann. Strout. :Sulph. Thea.
Thuy. Valer. Verb. Viol. tric. Zinc.
- - asunder, Ran. b.
- - outwards, Amm. c. Calc. s. Cor.
Dros. Oleand. Puis. Sil. Staph.
The. Tox.
- raging, Hydr. Sulph. rub.
- rending, Amb. Calc. c. Calc. s. Cast.
Coccion. Ign. Ipec. Lye. Nitr. ac.
Plumb. Samb. Sod. c. Thuy. Zinc.
- shocks, Thuy.
- spasmodic, Arn. Sod. c.
- squeezing, AII\b. Assa. Ign. Plat.
- stinging, Assa. Camph. Coccion.
Coloc. Con. Dig. •Jgn. Rhod. Sep.
Spig. :Sulph. Tar. Val. Zinc.
- stunning, stupefying, Arg. Am.
Asar. Bell. Cic. Hyosc. Sabad. Stann.
Verb.
- tension, Clem. Dig. Hydr. Mgn. m.
- throbbing, AI. Ang. Ant. tart. Ars.
Asar. Rut. Sod. chi.
- tingling, creeping, Arn. Colch.
- ulcerous, Nux v.
On a small spot, heada., Ferr. m•
Digitized byGoogle
7. Interior head.
To the teeth, extending, headache, Hydr.
Lye. Mez.
- pressing and thro&bing, Mez.
- rending, Hydr. Lye.
In the temple1, heads., Myr.
- boring, Aog. Ant.s. Clem.
- burning, Hydr.
-compressing, Thuy. Verb.
- contracting, SeilL
~ cutting, Laeh.
- dra~ng, .Asar. Calc.e. Guaj. Rlaod.
Sabin. Sen. Tox.
- heat, with cold cheeks, Herb.
- heaviness, Bilm.
In the temple1, headache.
- jerking, Am.
- as from a nail pierced in, Arn.
- 88 from a plug pierced in, Anac. A1111.
- pressing, Agri. Anae. Asar. A11a.
Bilm. Calc. s. Cann. Carb. v. Cupr.
Cyc. Guaj. Lach. Mar. Ran. Rhm.
Kkod. Sabad. Samb. Sod. ehl. Tab.
Thuy. Viol. trie. Zinc.
- - inwards, Ran. se.
- - outwards, Calc. e. Ran. se. Sulph.
- pushing, Croe.
- rending, Ago. Arn. Herb. Cast. ~.
Guaj. Hydr. Mgn. s. Phoa. Plumb.
Ran. b. Samb. Tox. Zinc.
- shocks, Thuy.
- spasmodic, Calc. e.
- stinging, Arn. Aesa. Cau1t. Dig.
Mgn. s. Phos. ae. Pot. e. Sod. bor.
Tar. Verb. Zinc.
-stunning, Asar. Sabad. Verb.
- tension, Calc.c. Cann.
- throbbing, pulsating, Chel. Cinch.
Coce. Sod. s. Stann. Tab. Thuy.
- tingling, Plat.
- vibl'lltion, Stroot.
To the throat extended, rending, Anae.
Hydr. ·
To tlie tongue extend. headache, Ipee.
In the upperpart and vertex, Ant. s.
Calc. e. Seill.
- boring, Cinch.
- 88 if bursting, Sod.s.
- celdness, VaL
- pompressing, Graph.
-.euttmg, Lach. Verat.
. ~ l!rawing; Calc. c.
··. ~.grubbing, Samb.
·;.;:,; .88 from a nail, Evon. Thuy.
~ pressing, Amb. Cole. c. Calc. 1. Cinch.
Croc. Ferr. Laeh. Ran. Rhm. Tab.
- - asunder, Ran. b.
- - outwards, Par.
- rending, Amb. Nitr.ac.
- stinging, Carb. v. Con. ·
- throbbing, Amao. Coce. Sod. c.Stram.
- tingling, Cupr.
- ulcerous pain, Cast.
b) kind ofqff_ection.
Agitation, waving.(Wallen) in the b~,
Aeon. Caust. Dig. Ind. Mgn. m. (comp.
like water in the h.)
Like air passing through the head, Aur.
Cor. ·
Like something alive in the head, Petr.
Sil. .. ·
Arthritic headache, pa1'0Ky8Dl8 ot; A.m.
Ars. A1ar. Aur. BeU. Bry. Cap#.
Caust. Cham. ~· Cinch. Coloc. COn.
Graph. Hyoee. Jamb. Ign. Ipec. Mang.
Nitr. ae. Nu:x: 11. Petr. Pbos. Plat.
Puis. Sabin. Sep. Sod. chl. Tox. Verat.
Zinc. (comp. "headaclie with natUeo
and 110miting, and oneeided".)
- in the afternoon, Aur. Coloc. · · ·
- in the evening, Jamb.
- periodical, Bell. .
Like a ball rising up, Aeon. Plwnb.
(eomp. hysterical headache.) ·
Beating, in theh.(Sehliige), Aeth.Caust.
Ind. Phos. ae. Ran. b. Sod. ehl. (eomp.
"jerks and shocks".) ·
With bellyache alternating, heads. ,
Artem.
To bend the head backward~, neeeesity,
Pot. nitr.
Blood, congestion of, see ''congestion".
Like boiling water in the h., Aeon. Ind.
Boring, Aman. Ang. Ant. s. Ant. tart.
Bism. Calc. c. Calc. 1. Dule. Oleand.
01. Preon. Sabin. Sep. Sod. 1. Spig.
Stann. Staph. ·
- pressing, Cinch. · · .
-rending, Ign••
- stinging, Hydr. Ign. Puis.
AJ5 if bruiled, pain, Anac. Ang. Aur.
Bov.Camph.Cham.Cinch. Con.Cupr.
Euph. Euphr. Hell. Jod. Ipee. Nu:x:v.
Phoa. Verat.
Bubbling in the bead, like water, Bell.
Herb.
Burning in the head, Aeon. Arn. Bry.
Canth. Dule. Hell. Hydr. Jamb. Pboe.
Stann. Tox. Verat. ·
- contracting, Bism.
- pressing, Mang.
- rending, Hydr. ·
As if bur1ting, Amm. m. Ant. 8. Ben.
Calc. 8. Cap1. Cast. Cham. Cinch.
Hydr. Kram. Nice. Nux v. Oleand.
Pule. Sep. Sil. Sod. e. &d.chl; Sod.a.
~pig. Spong. Sulph. Sulph.ac. (com,r..
· ''pressing asunder and outwards .)
Chronic headache, Amm. c. Con. Sulpb.
Clerriting headache (Hacken), Aur.
Phos.ac. · -• .-
Clucking pain, Par. Sulph. · · ,. . · ·
Coldnen in the bead, Arn. Bell. Qtlc;c.
Laur. Val. · ,· .., ·
Compre11ing eens. in the h., Aeth: Arg.
Digitized by Coogle
==---------------------=~ -.-.J
7. Interior head. 411
Graph; Lam. Mgn. s. M08ch. Myr.
Phell. Pot. nitr. SOd. chi. Tox.
Compressing sene. in the h., squeezing,
Aeth. All\'. Alum. Asar. Bov. Brif.
Cann• .lUen. Pbos. nc. Plat. Pot. jod.
Spig. Spong. Staph. Thuy. Zinc.
Concussion (commotio) of the brain, Arn.
Cic.
Congestion of the blood to the head,
Aeon. AI. Amb.Amm. m. Ant. s. -<lrn.
Asea. Aur. Bell. Bry. Cann. Canth.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Caust. Cham. Cinch.
Coff. Co)oc; Dole. Ferr. Graph. Hydr.
Jod. Lach.Laur. Lye. M~n.m. Jlfgn.s.
Man!{: Mtll. Mosch. Nttr. ac. Nux v.
01. Up. Phell. Phos. Plumb. Pot. c.
Pul$. Ran.b. Sen. Sep. Sit Sod. bor.
Sod. c. Spong. Stram. Sulph. Tab.
Tpr. Thuy. Tox. Verat. Viol.od.
-when bending forward, Cor.
- in.the rooming in bed, Lye.
- from music; Amb.
~ at night, Psor. Puis.
- protruding the eyes, AL
-when stooping, Laeh. Sen~ Sep.
Verat.
- when talking, Coff.
- from tobacco smoking, Mgn.e.
Constricting sens., Anae. Ant. tart. Am.
Assa. Camph. Cocc. Graph. Hy08C.
Stann. Sulph. ae. Yent.
Contracting sens., Ang. Bism. Graph.
· Grat. Hyosc. Jamb. Pot. nitr. SCill.
. Sep. Tar. Val. (eomp. "cramping and
· spasmodic".)
Crackling (Knistem) when walking,
Puis.
Cramping pain (K.mmsehmerz), Aeon.
Amb. Ang. Coleh. Coloe•.Jamb. lgn.
Mar. Noxv. Ph08. ac. Plat. Ran.se.
.. Rhm. Seill. (eomp. spa8modie,)
- tightening, Nux v.
To cry out compelling p., Cupr. Sep.
Cutting in tbe h., Arn. LaeiL Verat.
Daily headache, Bell. Con. SiL Sod. chi.
Sulp~. (comp. morning, af\erooon,
. evemng.)
- every other day, Amb.
As if in a dampish room, heada., A.lrn.
Dilaceration, sens. of, in the brain,
Aman. ·Amm. m. Coff. Mur. ac. Op.
Puis. Staph. Sulph. ac. Verat.
Diminution of the brain, senL o(, Grat.
In.tention, sens. of, Bell. Par. Raa. b.
Raa. sc. Ther. (eomp. "enlargement,
fulnet111, J?ressing asunder".)
Drtntnng pam in the head, A.oon. Aman.
Ant. tart. Artem. Allar. Calc. c. Caps.
Carb, v. Cham. Coloc. Con. Croc.
Cupr. FeFr. Goaj. Mgn. c. Mang.
Mosch. Nuxv. OL Petr. Pot.e. Pot.
nitr. Puis. Ran.~~~e. Rhod. Sabin. Scill.
Sen. Sep. Sod. chi. Stann. Sulph.
Sulph. ae. Tong. Tox. Val. Zinc.
Dull pain, Aman. Ant. s. Artem. Chel.
Mar. Onise. Thu'y. Verb.
Enlargement of the b., sens. of, Berb.
Bov. Cor. Dule. Ind. Mang. Ran.se.
Ther.
- of the occiput, Dole.
FaUing forwards, sens. in the brain,
when stopping, Berb. Bry. Dig.
Laur.
As ifflattened, sens. in the forehead, Cor.
Fluctuating, waving (Wogen), in the
brain, Hyose. Par. .
FulneiB in the bead, Aeon. Amm. m.
Berb. Brue. Bry. Calc. c. Caps. Oast.
Cinch. Con. Grat. Guaj. Hydr. Nice.
Nitr. ac. Petr. Phell. Pbos. Ran. sc.
&d. bor. ~. e. Spong. Sulph. Sulph.
ac. Tereb. To:r.
Gnawing pain, P1e0n. Ran. sc.
Grasping, Con. Mgn. m. Sod. s.
~bing (Graben, Wiihlen) in the h.,
. Aman. Anae. Ant. tart..Bar. e. Bism.
Bry. Caust. Clem. Coloc. Dule. Phell.
Pot.jod. Sabin. Samb. Spig.
-:- outwards, Dule.
Hammering sens. in the h., Amm. c.
Calc. e. Clem. Ferr. Lack. Mez. Sod.
cbL (eomp. "Throbbing".)
Heat ill the li., Amb. Amm. c. Amm. m.
Ant. tart. Arn. Aur. Bell. Berb. Bry.
Carb.a. Carb. v. Cinch. Euphr. Hell.
!fydr. Hyosc. Ind. Kram. Laur.
Mgn. m. Mgo. s. Myr. Nitr•.
ae. 01.
• PhelL Pho8. Plumb. Ran. b. Rhm.
Rhod. Rut. Sep. Sit. Rod. c. Stram.
Stroot. Sulph. Tab: Viol. od.
- in the rooming in bed, Lye.
- in the afternoon, in walking, Berb.
S~ront.
- at night, Camph. Sil.
- from tobacco smoking, Mgo. c.
Heat rising up, Calad~ Cantb. ·
Heat in. the forehead, .Alum. Bell. Cantb.
Coloc. Euphr. Hydr. Grat. Viol. od.
Heavineu, of the bead, Aeon• .Alum.
Amm. m. Ant. tart. Arn. Ars. Bar. m.
Berb. Bov. Bry. Calc. c. Camph.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Cast. Cham. Cic.
Cinch. Ferr. HeU. Hydr._ Ipet:. Kram.
Laur. Mgn. m. Mang. Men. Moseb.
Mur.ao. 1\lyr. Nice. Nitr.ac. Nuxv.
Oleand. OnJSC. Op. Petr. Phell. Phos.
Phos. ac. PlufT!b. Pot. jod. Pot. nitr.
Puis. Ran.sc. Rhm. Sabin. Scill. &p.
Sil. &d. chl. Spig. Spong. Sttlnn.
Staph. Stdph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Tereb.
The. T071g. Tu:r. Verb. VioLod. Viol.
tric.
- painful, Hell. Nice. Oleand. Sabad.
Verb. .
Digitized by Coogle
• I
478 7. Interior heaa.
Hemnneu, of the head, pressing, Bism.
Nux v. SciU. Tereb. To.r.
- stunning, as atWr intoxication, Pot.
nitr.
Heauine11 of the head, appearing:
- in the morning,Amm. m. Clem. Con.
Croe. Nuxv. Petr. Pot. nitr.
- in the evening, Sep.
- daily, Sil Socf. chi.
- from exercise increased, Calc. e.
- when exerting the body, Calc. e.
-when moving the eyes, Nuxv.
- when looking sidewards, Agn.
- i._ the open air relieved, Ars.
- in a room, Ars.
-when stooping, Aeon. Berb. Petr.
Senn. Sulph. ac. To.r.
- after stooping, Tong. Viol. trie.
· - after vexation, Mgn. e.
....,. when walking, Thea.
Hemicrania, see Arthritic headache, and
onesided headache.
Holloume11, vacuity in the head, Arg.
· Cocc. Cor. Cupr. Pull. Sen. (eomp.
"Lightness in tbe bead".)
As if a hoop were put round the bead,
sens., Aeth. Hydr. Sulph. Ther.
(comp. "as ifse;ewed together, sen-
sation".)
Hgdrocephalu1 internu1, Aeon. Bell. Con.
Dig. Hell. Hydr. Hyo1c. Stram.
Jerking pain, Anae. Arn. Bry••Cinch.
Jgn. Kram. Mgn. e. Mgn. m. Mar.
Mur. ae. Pmon. Phos. Phos. ae. Pull.
Sep. Sulph. Thu:y. (eomp. "Throb-
bing, Rending,-Jerking".)
Increaing pains, slowly aeereasing, in
the b., Plat.
-suddenly disappearing, Sulph.ac.
Injirmitg, sens. of, in the head, Verat.
(eomp. Looseness of the brain.)
Inflammation of the brain, Aeon. Bell.
Bry. Camph. Canth. Cupr. Hell.
Hyoac. (Stram. 1)
- after exertion in the winter-coldness,
Hyosc.
- . from the beat of the sun, Camph.
- nervous, Bry. Hyo1c.
As from intoxication, Carb. a. Pot. nitr.
Samb.
Itclaing in the h., Dig.
Knocking (Pueken), Amm. c. Ang.
Lightne11, unpleasant in the h., Stram.
(eomp. "hollowness".)
Loo1enes1 of the brain, sens. of, Aeon.
Amm.e. Bar. e. Carb.a. Croe. Mgn.s.
Myr. Staph. Sulph. ac. To.r. Verat.
(eomp. motion of the brain.)
- when exercising, Aeon. Carb. a. Croe.
Mgn.s. Myr.
- when treading on the ground, To~:.
Mooting, see Grubbing.
Moping headache, Con. Hell. Hydr.
Sulph.rub. Led. (comp. "Stupefying,
stunning, pain".)
Motion, shaking, of the brain , Aeon.
Amm. c. Cinch. Dig. Laur. Mgn. s.
Pot. e. Rhm. (comp. "Looseness,
falling forward, &c.")
- when drinking and talking, Aeon.
- when exercising, Aeon. Mgn. s.
- when stooping, Dig. Rhm.
7'o move the head, necessity, occasioned
by pains, Cinch. Cor.
As from a nail pierced into the brain,
sens., Aman. Arn. Calc. s. Coff. Evon.
Ign. Lye. Nu.rv. Staph. Thuy. (comp.
"as from a plug".)
As from nocturnal debauches or lucubra-
tion, Amb. Bry. ·
Numbness, sens. of, in the head (Ein-
geschlafenheit, Tnubheit- Ge!Ubl),
Carb. a. Con. Graph. Mgn. m. 01.
Plat. Thuy.
Outpressing ( Herausrlri\ngen), Aeon.
Amm. c. Calc. c. Calc. s. Mgn. s. Par.
Sil. Staph. Thuy. Tox. Verb. (comp.
"as if bursting".)
Palsy of the brain, incipient, Ars. Lye.
Periodical headache, Arn. Bell. Ferr.
Nu.rv. Sulph.
- every other day, Amb.
Pinching (Kneipen), Petr.
As from a plug, pain, Anac. Arg. Assa.
Con. Plat. (comp. "as from a nail''.)
Pressing, pressure (Driicken, Pressen,
Drangen) in the h., in general: Alum.
Amb. Amm. m. Ang. Ant.tart. Arg.
Arn. Ars. Artem. Asar. liar. c. Bell.
Berb. Bism. Bov. Bry. Calad. Calc. c.
Calc. s. Cann. Caps. Carb. a. Carb. v.
Caust. Cic. Cinch. Colch. Crot. Cupr.
Dig. Dros. Dulc. Ep. Euph. Euphr.
Evon. Ferr. Grat. Guaj. Hell. Hyosc.
Jnmb. Ign. Jod. Lach. Lam. Lye.
Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Mang. Mur.
Men. Mez. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Oleanrl.
Onisc. Par. Petr. Phos. Phos. ac. Plat.
Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Puis. Ran. b. Ran. sc.
Rhm. Rhod. Rttt. Sabad. Samb. Sass.
Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Spig.
Spong. Stann. Staph. Sulph. Sulph.ac.
Tab. Tar. Tereb. Thuy. Tong. Tox.
Val. Verat. Verb. Viol.tric. Zinc.
- asunder, AI. Bell. Bry. Caps. Cocc.
Ign. Mez. Myr. Pot.jod. Rnn. b. Samb.
Sep. Spig. Staph. Tar. Tox. Zinc.
- boring, see this article.
- constricting, Graph.
- downwards,Amb. Artem. Cupr. Laur.
Phos. Senn.
- drawing, Ran. se. Rlwd.Stann. Staph.
- gnawing, Ran. sc.
- grubbing, Dry. Clem.
Digitized by Coogle
. . -·- ... _ j
7. Interior head. 419
Preuing, &c., heavy (like a stone),
Artem. Binn. Cann. Led. Men. Nu:x: v.
Tox.
- jerking, Dig. Thuy.
- inward, Anac. Plat. Ran.1c.
- outwards, Asar. A11a. Cor. Dros.
Oleand. Pbos. Ran.ec. Suiph.
- like a plurr, see "Plug".
- rending, Aman. Anac. Oinch. &tmb.
Stann. Staph.
- squeezing (klemmcnd), Amb. Coloe.
Jamb. Ign. Phos. ac. Plal. Ran.ec.
- stin~ng, Canth. Caps. Euph. Petr.
Sabm. Sass. Staph. Val.
- stupefying, see this article.
- throbbing, Mez. Myr.
- tightening (spannend), Clem. Hydr.
Lye. Mgn. m. Op. Ther.
Prickling, Viol. od.
As if the hair were pulled, Alum.
Pulsation, Alum. Asar. Bell. Carb. v.
Chel. Cinch. Croc. Oleand. Op. Plumb.
Sabad. Spong. Thuy. Tox. (eomp.
"Throbbing".)
Raging (Toben) in the h., Aur. Caust.
Hydr. sulph. rub. Ind. Mgn. m. MiD.
Raspm(J pain (Schrlinden), Sabin.
Remiltmgly (absctzend), appear. pains,
Plat. Val.
Rending, tearing, in the h., Aetb. Aman.
Amb. Arum. m. Anac. Ant. s. Ant.
tart. Arg. Arn. Aur. Bell. Berb. Bov.
Bruc. Calc. c. Canlh. Cast. Cham.
Cinch. Colch. Con. Dig. Guaj. Hgdr.
kn. Ind. Ipec. Kram. Led. Lye.
Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Mar. Mill. Nitr. ae.
Ol. Phos. Phos. ac. Plumb. Pull.
Ran. b. Rhm. Samb. Sass. Sep. Sil.
Sod. c. Spig. Stann. Sulph. Sulph. ae.
Tereb. Thuy. Tong. Tox. Zinc.
- boring, burning, pressing, &c. &e.,
see these articles.
- drawing, Artem. Caps. Guaj. Nuxv.
Pot. c. Puis. Tox.
- grubbing, Coloc. Spig,
- jerking, Anac. Arn. Cinch. Kram.
Mgn. m. Mar. Mur. ac. Preon. Pull.
Thuy.
- stinging, Caps. Cocc. Jgn. Mgn. m.
Nice. Puis. Sod. chl.
Rending extending to the face, Amm.m.
Anac. Guaj. Lye. Thuy.
- drawing, Sen.
- stinging, Tox.
Roaring, buzzing. humming (Brausen,
Sausen, Sumsen, Wuwwern) in the
h., Aur. Calc. c. Caust. Ferr. Graph.
Mgu. m. Nux v. Pbos. Pot. e. Pula.
Sass. Sod. s. Sulplt. Tox. Zinc.
- in the evening and after meals, Hydr.
sulph. rub.
- in hysteric persons, Aur.
RoUing (Rollen) in the b., Graph. Jamb.
Se.,.
Screwtng pain, Sabad.
AB if 1crewed in or together, Mgn. '·
Pl,lls. Ran. b. Saa Sod. chi. Stann.
Sulph. (eomp. "spasm, tension &e.")
SennttveJ~UI of the brain (Empfindlieb-
keit), Con. Nitr. ae. Pbos.
- to laughing and mnsic, Pboe.
- to noiae and talking, Con.
- to the rattling ofa vehicle, Nitr. ae.
- to treading on the ground, Nitr. ae.
Phos. .
Shaking (Sebuttern) of the brain, Verat.
- when exercising, Mang. Spig.
- when stepping fiWie, ~.
....:... when treading on the ground and
w~lkin~, Lye. Nux v. Sep. Sil. Spi,g. ·
VtoL trtc. .
Slwckl (Rucke, Stoese) in the bead, BeD.
CausL Clem. Croc. Mur. ae. Nux v.
Phos. ae. Samb. ·Sep. Sil. Sod. e.
Sod.chi. Sod.e. 8-pW. Stann. Sulph. ae.
Thuy. (eomp. "lJiating".)
- when wal~g in ~he open ~r, Spig.
- when walking raptdly and ascending
steps, Bell.
By •hockl (ruckwei8e) pains coming on,
Dig. Mur. ac. Thuy.
AB after 1leepin~ too much, Bov. Thuy.
AB from lfMke m the brain, sens., Arg.
Sulph.ae.
&wene11, sens. of, in the b., Camph.
Canth. Zinc.
Spumodie pam, Arn. Calc. e. Carb. v.
Moseh. Petr. Sass. Sod. c. Stann.
(comp. Screwed together, constric-
tion, tension.
- drawing, Mo1ch. Petr.
- rending, Sod. e.
Stinging, shooting (Steeben), in the b.,
Aeon. Aeth. Alwn. Amm.e. Ant. tart.
· Ant. Am. Bar. c. BeD. Bruc. Bry.
Cafe.e. Calc.1. Camph. Canth. Cape.
Carb. v. Cawt. Cham. Cinch.Coeeion.
Con. Cic. Di/(. Euph. Evon. Ferr.
Grat. Guaj. Bydr. ~n. Ind. Ipec.
Kram. Lt,c. Mgn. c. m. Mgn. ' ·
Mang. Mill. Mur. ac. ice.' Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. 01. Par. Petr. Phos. Phos.ac.
Plumb. Pot. c. P,ot. nitr. Puis. Rhod.
Sabin. Sas1. &ill. Sel. Sep. &d. bor.
Sod. c. Sod. chl. Sod. s. Spig. Staph.
Stront. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Tar.
Thuy. Tong. Tor. Val. Verb. Viol.
trie. Zinc.
- borin~, see this article.
- drawmg, Mang. SciU.
- ~erking, Nuxv. Pula. &d.chl.
- mward st., Coloe.
- outwards, Assa. Bry. Con. Sod. c.
AB from the 1tomacla rill., headache, Con.
Digitized by Coogle
7. Interior head.
&rlri~ait&g (~men) in the h., Rhm.
Stunning, etupefyin~, ·moping (betiu-
bender) ~· -Aeon. Anac. Ant. e.
Ant. tart. Ani. A1111. Bell. BoT. Cye.
Hyo~e. Lar. Lel. ·M~m. Oleana.
Ph01. Pot. mtr. RlmL Rut. Sabad.
· &bin. &tma.ljtllph. Thuy. Val. Verb.
- eompressing, Molch.
- drawing, Asar.
·- pressing, Ant. t~~rt: Arg. Ani. Ars.
· ~ %Artein. Alar. Calc.e. Cie. Orot. Cupr.
" '··~'Vrol. Dole. Evon. HelL Hyo~e. Mez.
'. ··~:~:~ R~. .Sabad. Stann. Sulph. ~erb.
~ atmgmg, Verb. ·
- throbbing, Sabin.
- tightening, As8a. Oleand. .
&ul4enlJ originat. headache, Sabin. Vat:
T/aro6bing (beating, knoelung) in the b.
(Klopfen), Aeon. AL Alum. Ant. tart.
Am. Asar. Aeaa. Aur. Bell. Bov. Bry.
Calc. e. Camph. Cann. Cap3. Carb. v.
Gut. Cham. Coee. Ferr. Ferr. m.
Graph. Grat. lgn. Jod. Lmw. Lye.
Mang. Mez. Mill. Myr.Nitr.ae.Oleand.
01. Petr. Phell. Phos. Ptd1. Rhm.
Rbod. Rut. Sabad. Sabin. Sa1. Sen.
&p. Sil. Sod. bor, Sod. e. Sod. chi.
800.e. Spong. Stann. Stram. 8ulph.
Tab. Ther. Tong. Tox. Verat. Zinc.
(eomp. Pulsation.)
- from the abdomen originating, Rbm.
- ~nawing, Par.
- mtermittent, Ferr.m.
-jerking, Bry. Ign. Pbos.
- rending, Mgn. m.
- stinging, Pule.
- ulcerous, C(l.8t. Mang.
Tightening pain in the h. (Spannen),
Assa. Bar. c. Calc. e. Calc. s. Cann.
Carb. v. Clem. Dig. Graph. Hydr.
Lye. Mgn. e. Mgn. m. Mang. Men.
Ma~ch. Nitr. ae. Nux v. Olcand. Op.
Par. Petr. Rhod. Sabad. Samb. Sod.c.
8tront. Sulph. Ther.
- stunning, prtlssing &e., see these
artielee.
- drawing, Mang. Masch.
- stinging, Mang.
TinKling (KriebPin) in the h., Arg. Arn.
Colch. Cupr. Plat. Sulph. To:c.
Thrning in thE> h., Sabad. Sit.
TtrPicalheadaehe, Spig. (eomp. See. 1.)
V7Cerous pain in the h., Amm.e. Bov.
Cast. Caust. Mang. Nux v.
Vibration (Drohnen) in the b., Grat.
Lye. Nux v. Sass. Sit. Stroot. Verb.
- in the evening, Stroot.
- when stepping out, Lye. Nux v. Sit.
-when talKing, Sass.
-when walking, Verb.
Like water in the brain, sene., Aeon.
BelL Dig. Ind. Phoe. ae. Samb.
Like water in the brain, boiling, Aeon.
Ind. ·
Weakness, in the h., Amb. Phos. Rim. b.
Stram. Sulph. ac. Thuy.
- disabling, Jod.
Whirling in the h., Sit.
c. condition.
Day and night, headache, Tox. Viol. tric.
In the morning, headache, Aman. Amb.
Amm. m. Artem. Aur. Berb. Calc. s.
Carb. a. Caust. Clem. Con. Croc.
Graph. Nu:cv. Petr. Phos. Phos. ac.
Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Scill. Sep. Sil. Sod. c.
Sod. chl. Stann. Sulph. Thuy. Zinc.
- in bed, _Aman. Anac. Bov. Bry. Cham.
Con. N1tr. ac. Puis. Rhm. Rut. Scill.
Sod. chi. Staph. 1'huy.
- after breakfast, Lye. Myr.
- when rising, Amm. m.
In the forenoon, Calc. s. Sep. Sil.
In the afternoon, Aeth. Asar. Bell. Coloc.
Graph. Lye. Set. Sil. Stroot.
In the evening twilight, Ang,
In the evening, Amm. c. Anac. Ang.
Ant. tart. Calc. s. Carb. v. Croc. Crot.
Euphr. Ferr. Hydr. sulph. rub. Jamb.
Lach. Lye. Mgn. m. Petr. Phos. Pttls.
Rut. S~p. Stroot. Sulph. Ther. Thuy.
Tox. Zmc.
- in bed, Lye. Mgn. m. Puls. Sep. Zinc.
- c~ntinued to the next evening, Pot.
mtr.
- exacerbation, Crot. Puls.
At night, Ant. tart. Bov. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Camph. Canth. C&rb. v. Caust. Cinc/1.
H_yclr. Jamb. Lye. JJfgn. c. Mgn. s.
N1tr. ac. Par. Phos. Phos. ac. Sit.
Sod. s. Sulph. Zinc.
- augmented and continued, Pull$.
- by nausea in the evening preceded,
Phos.
After midnight, Pbos.ac.
From draft ofair, headache, Val.
- increased, Bell. Cinch.
From exerting the arm1, Ferr. magn.
Sod.s.
- moving the ann~, Tox.
From ascending steps, Bell. Ferr. magn.
-increased, Ant. s. Arn. Men. Par.
Phos.ac.
From bathing in a river, headache,
Ant.s.
From beer, headache, Tox.
By bending the head backwards relieved,
Bell. Thuy.
By bending forwards increased, Aeon.
Asar. Cor. Ign. Nuxv. Spig. Thuy.
(eomp. when stooping.)
From binding any thing round the h.,
Calc.c.
Digitized by Coogle
7. Interior head. 481
Bv binding up the hair, reliev., Pot. nitr. When lgirag dotDn, relieved, Cupr. Hell.
When blowing the nose, Suiph. Ign. Oleand. Spig.
Wit~\ bodily exertion, headache, Calc.e. When lying on the back, incr., Coloe.
Wlten knitting the brow&, incr., Sod. ehL After lying, Calad.
Fcom changed temperature, Ran. Verb. When muticclting, Sulph.
From coffee, headache, Nux v. (eomp. During meal6, Graph. Ran. b. (comp.
Sec. 1.) SeC. 17.)
- increased, Pot. nitr. - relieved, PheD. .
From a celd. headache, Bell. Calc. e. After meau, Amm.e. Ant. Bry. Carb.a.
Cham. Puis. (comp. Sec.l.) Carb. v. Graph. Hydr. sillph. rub.
When getting cold at the head, head- Hyoec. Myr. Nux v. P&!On. Sod. s.
ache, Aur. Tox.· (eomp. See.17.)
)q-om external coldness, headache, Verb. - inereued, Et10n. Zinc. (eomp•.See.l.)
From celd air, Ferr. Rhod. Sod. chi. From mechanical injuriel, Am. Oic.
- increased, Carb. a. Rhod. From men.tdl exertion, Anac. ANr. Aw.
- relieved, Sen. Cclc. c. Colch. Dil;; M«n. o. Nwc w..
By cold poultices relieved, Ars. OL Phos. Puis. &.bJ. Sil. Sulpb.
In great company, headache, Mgn.e. (eomp. 8ee.6.)
When oompresnng the head, relieved, - incre8sed, Arn. Artem. Calc.c. Cinch.
Hydr. sulph.rub. Lye. Nw: v. Ptlt'. Phos. as.
From coryza, suppressed, Cinch. From mercury miaU8ed, Puis. (eomp.
When coughing, headache, Pot. c. Spig. Sec.l.)
Sulpb. (comp. "Cough with head- With f710Ut weather, headache, Cub. a.
ache".) Rlwd.
From covering the head, coldness felt in When opening the mouth, incr., Spig.
it, Val. -when mDfling the arms, eyes, see "arms,
After drinking, headache, Aeon. (eomp. eyes," &c.
Sec. 1, 17.) When moving, turning, ahakina' tile
When entering into cold air, headache, Aead, Caps. Cor. Graph. Lye. "}JuJs.
Ran. Verb. &p. Sod. e. Sod. chL Spig.
- into warm air, Ran. - increased, Phos. ac.
- into a room, Spong. Tong. From mu.ic, headache, Amb. Phoe.
By enveloping the head re!Jeved, M,rn. m. From noile, Anac.
From evacuations, too small, headache, - increased, Con. Jod. Phos. ac. Spig.
Con. From odaurs, strong, Sel.
When exercising, headache, Aeon. In the open air, Cclc. c. Coil: Con. Ferr.
Amm.c. Carb.a. Croe. Mgn.s. Myr. Mang. Mur.ac. Spig.
Samb. Sod. chl. Spig. Staph. Sulph. - increased, Alum. Arteru. Chel. Cinch.
Ther. · GraL Mang. Mez. Nux v. PoL e. Spig.
- increased, Aeon. .\p. BelL Bry. Sulph.
Calc. e. Cinch. GraL liw:11. Pbos.ae. -relieved, Aeon. AnL s. Are. Berb.
Plat. Pot. e. Spig. , Coloe. Crot. Ep. Mang. Phell. Phos.
- relieved, Guaj. Mur. ae. Tar. Pot. nitr. Sen. Tab. Thuy. Viol. tric.
When BMrting the arms, Ferr. rnagn. From overheating, Carb. v. Sil.
Sod. s. From perlpiratiolt, suppressed, Chaa
When moving or turning the eyu, BeD. When pruling upon the head, pain.
Bry. Cale.s. Cupr. Dig. Mgri.s. Mur. Amm.e. Val.
ac. Nuxv. Puis. Tox. -increased, Aman. Arg. Bry. Cat.
Near a hot stove, headache, Bar. e. Cinch. Cupr. Phos.ac. 8a.ll8.
When intently looking to 110mething, - relieved, Guaj. Men. Par. Pulsl Spig.
Mur. ae. Spong. Stann.
- relieved, Agn. When raising the bead, Senn.
From lawthing, headache, Phos. Tong. -increased, Bov.
From leail and tin work, Sulph. - By- rattling noiae of vehicles aifectell,
When leaning on the head, relieved, Nitr. ae.
Bell. Pot. c. , From reading, headache, Ago. Arf.
From lemonade, Set. Sod.s. (eomp. "mental exenioa".)
When lifting wrong, Calc.e. - increased, Am. Artera..
From the light ofa candle, Croe. By rut relieved, Hell.
- ofthe day, Sep. From rich food, Pul8.
When lying doima, increued, Bell. When riding~ a whiele, Graph. Jo4.
Camph. Coloo. Enphr. LJc. Mgn. e. Pot.c. (eomp. Sec. L)
Q
Digitized by Coogle
7. Interior hcmd.
When riding in a vehicle, relieved, Po&.
nitr.
When rUing· ffom sitting, iner., Gra'-
Lam.
- from 1tooping, headache, Tong. VioL
tric.
- - increased, Lam.
In a room, headache, Ara. M""'f. Nieo.
Sen.
-increased, Arn. Laur. Zinc.
- relieved, Mang. Sulph.
From running, headache, Sod. ehl.
From lluJiri11g (Erachiitterung), head-
ache, Cale.a.
- increased, Bell. Pboa.ac.
In lilting, headache, Aman. Kram.
- relieved, Lam.
When fitting up from lying, inereued,
Cor. Mur. ae. Nux v.
- relieved, Mgn. e.
In .leep, Cham.'Mgn. c.
In •lumber, relieved, Hell.
When anee:&ing, Pot.c.
From tpiritUOtll liquors, Nuzt1. Rhod.
&l. Zinc. .
- iocreued, Calc. c. NuxT. Rhod.
When •tanding, headache, Arg. Tar.
When 1tepping wrong, Anae. Led.
From 1tooping, headache, Aeon. Bar. c.
Berb. 8ry. Calc. a. Cyc. J>i«. Ferr. m.
Lach. Laur. Nuxv. Petr. P'ula. Rhm.
Sen. Senn. &p. Sil. Staph. Sulph.ac.
To~. Verat. (comp. "when bending
forwards".)
- increased, Aeon. Calc. c. Camph.
Chel. Coloc. Dros. lgn. Nuxv. Plat.
Tox.
- relieved, Artem. Ign. Nux. T. Mez.
When exposed to the aun, Bruc. Sod.c.
In mpine position, incr., Coloc.
By mpporting the head, relieved, Ep.
From talking, Coff. Sil. Spig. (comp.
Sec.l.)
- increased, Aeon. Cinch. Con. Joel.
When thinking on i&, the pain relieved,
Camph.
When threading on the ground, head-
ache, Lye. Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Phoe. 8ep.
Sil. Spig. Sulph. To~.
- increased, Cinch. Nitr. ac. Pboe.
From tobacco 1m0king, Ant. a. Mgn. c.
- relieved, Ep. ·
By touching, altered, Al~t~.
.....- increased, Anae. Calc.c. Camph. Caat..
Cinch. Cupr. Ipec. Mez.
- relieved, All&
When uncovering the body, headache
relieved, Cor.
From veal, Pot. nitr.
l'~rom vexation, headache, Lye. Mgn. c.
Pelr. Phoa. Sod.chl.
By .mniting, increued, Jamb.
When ttJalkUag, Cap& Cinch. Jod. NuT.
Pula. Stront. Thea. VioL tric.
- increased, Am. Cinch.
- relieved, Canth.
When WJalkif&g in the open air, Con.
Mur. ae. Spig.
- increased, Alum. Artem. Grat. Pot.e.
- relieved, Alum. Ant. a. Ara. €oft:
Coloc. Hy08C. PbeiL Ran. b. Tbuy.
Tox.
After a tDGlk in the open air, headache,
Amm. c. Calc. c. Calc. a. Nice. Petr.
Sabad.
When walking rapidly, Bell. Bry.
When WJalking in wind, Cinch.
In warm air, headache, Joel.
In a toarm r00111, Spong.
- increased, Arn. Sen.
When expoeed. to toind, headache, Cinch.
Mur.ac.
From toine drinking, Nw:•. RAoil. 8el.
. ·Zinc.
- increUed, NUZJfJ. RAoil.
Whentoriting,headache,Sod.chl(comp.
"mental exertion".)
d) connexion.
.oV"ectioa of the head (Aearloche), Gtten-
ded by:
- flg'itation ·ofthe blootl, Phos.
- anorexia, Sel.
- anxiety, Phos. Ran. b. Rbm. Stroot.
- beUy-ache, Aeon. Coco.
- to bend the head backw11rds, neces-
sity, Pot. nit!.':'
- chilly sensation, Hell.
- cliills, Cure. Evon. Mgn. a. Mez. Sil.
Tbuy. ·.
- comtipation, N'!lx v.
- coryza, Aeon. Lacb. '
- countenance, pale, Alum. Amb. Ph9tJ.
- dejection, Ran. b. Ther.
- diarrlwla, Cure.
- dolefulnetl, Sel.
- dy•ecoia, Dulc. (Grat.) Stram.
- eara, buzzi11Q' in, Aeon. Dulc. Puis.
- - hammenng, Spig.
- - stinging, Hydr. Tox.
- ~~· Alum. Ant. s. Carb.a. Cotf.
- eructation, Calc. c, Sod.c.
- evening fever, Led.
- eyes, affection of, viz.:
- - bloatednees, Rhm.
- - congestion of the blood, Alum.
...;.. - contraction of the lids, Aman.
· Ant. tart. Pot. nitr. Sod. chi.
- - downward preasure, Carb. a.
--heat,.burning, Amb. Bov. Eug.
--inflammation, Led. -
- - obscuration, dulness, Cye. Grat.
Ign. Mur. ac. Puis. Saaa. Sil. Sod.c.
Sod. c:bl &rana.. .
Digitized by Google
•
..
7. Interior head•.:_ & Exterior head.
A~ of tie hetid (~). Glten- Coloc. Con. Cor. Croe. Dros. Graph.
led by: Jamb. lpec. Mgn. c. M08ck. Nitr. «.
- eye•, affection of, viz.: Nu:x:v. Phos. Plat. Pot. c. Sass. ~·
- ...;. ~,Amb. Ant. tart. Anem. Bism. Socl. c. Sod. chl. Stann. Stront. 81&1~.
Bry. Cocc. Croc. Jamb. Led. Lye. Tab. Verat. Zinc. (comp. "Arthntic
Nitr. ac. Pot. c. Puts. Sen. Sil. headache".) · .
Stann. Affection of tbe head (headache), Gtte1i-
..-:- ·runm.ogwitb water, Jamb. Spong. led by:
- - IJP88IIl, VioL od. . - nau.ea, with incilin. to vomit, Alum.
- - spots and sparks, Psor. Viol. od. Arg. Ars. Calc. c. Camph. Cocc.
- f«e, heat of, Ang. Calc. c. Cann. Ep. Grat. Ign. Tereb.
Stront. - and vomitur. (Brechwiirgen), Stann.
--pain, SiJ. Tong. -and vomiting, Bar. m. Bry. Cape.
- - redness, Cann. Mgn. s. Sh'ont. Cinch. Coloc. Con. Cure. Graph.
Thuy. Jamb. lpec. Mez. Nitr. ac. Nux v.
- finger•, coldness of, HelJ. Pbos. Plat. Pot. c. Puts. Sass. &p.
- - paleness, Verat. Sod.cbl. Verat. Zinc.
- - rending, occasionally, Pot. nitr. - sensitiveness ~ the oiftlt!tory nerve•,
- forgeifulne••· Caps. Phoe. .
- .freiftdneBB, Pot.c. Pot.jod. SiL Stann. -palpitation of the heart, Ant. tart.
f!.Tong. Cafe. s. · .
- ne88, Anac. Ant. tart. Cupr. - pe"l'6pirtJiion, general, Sod.s.
Mgn. m. Nioo. Nux v. Puis. - - cold, Graph.
Spig. Stroot. Tab. (comp. Giddiness - pfwtqplwbia, Euplt.r. Pot. c.
with headache.) - re8tlU8ne88, Lye. Par. Rut.
- heat, general, Cor. Sod. s. - •crobiculu., pain in, Arg.
- keavine•• ofthe limb8, SiL - d.uddering, Cure. Mez.
- jaw8, tremor of. Carb. v. - 1leepinu1, Bruc.Grat. POt.'nitr.Sod. s.
- indifference, Puis. Stann. Stront.
.._ iflllmitg, fear of, Amb. - 1tomach, burning in, Cure•
..;_to lie doton, necessity, Bry. Calc. c. - - pain in, Verat. · .
Con. Ferr. Lye. Mosch. Nitr.ac. Petr. - - vitiated, Myr. PuJa. (comp.Sec.l.)
Phos. ac. Sass. Sel. Sil. Sod. chi. - •yncope, Graph. Lye. Stram. ·
(comp. ''By lying down, relieved".) - to talk, diainclination, Thuy.
- low 8pirit8, Aman. - thir1t, Jamb.
- in the. nape, numbness, Spig. - tooth-ache, Tox.
- - pam, Verat. , -urinal dilcharge, incr., Jamb. Sel.
- - - when raising the head, Senn. Verat.
- - stitrness, Ar~. Graph. Lach. Mgn. - vomiting, see "nausea and vomiting".
• Pot. nitr. Sp1g. Verat. - weaknel1, Aman. Cinch. Sil. Sulph.
- nau.ea, Alum. Amm.c. Bry. Calc. c-. - wearine11, Berb.
Caps. Carb. v. Caust. Cic. Cinch. - to weep, dispos., Ran. b.
0:7 Insert P·478 after Hydrocephalus:
H!Jilencal headache, Aur. Bry. Val. (comp. "ball rising".)
8. Exterior head.
When ucending steps, pain, HeU.
&.Unu•, Bar. Lye. Zinc.
As ifbeaten. sene. on the h., Hell. Ipec.
Petr.
- on the occiput, ReU.
Bent forward the head, when walking,
...,....,Sulpb. . h'
.mung, see 1tc mg.
Blood-ve••el8, distention of, Bell. Thug.
BoiU (Beulengeschwiilste), Hell. Nux·v.
Petr. Puis. Rut. Sep. Sil. · ·
- painful, Hell. Nuxv. Pall•.
- - to the touch, Rut.
~ )ty rending oli the spot, · preeeded,
Rut. ·
BoiU, suppurating, Calc. Pot. e. '
IJone&, pain in, Aeon. Ant. e. Arg. Aur.
Canth. Cupr. Hydr. 81llph. rub. lpec.
. Mez. Nitr. tit!. Phos. ac. Rltod. Rut.
- from air blowing at, Aeon.
- 88 if beaten, I pee.
- drawing, Canth. Nitr. ac. Plaolf. ae.
Rhod. Rnt. .
- when lying, Aur.
- preal!ing, .Arg. Nitr. ac. RIIDJ,
- rending, Arg. Rhod.
- 88 frooi IIWelliog, Ant.
- tension and l!ltinging, Rut.
- when touched, compellioJ tQ cry out,
Cupr.
Digitized by Coogle
8. Exterior head.
.Boru1, pain in, when touched, incr., Mez.
Bonu, swelling of, Aur.
Boring, Lye. Onisc.
- with the head in the pillow., BeU.
HeU.
BruUing pain, Rhod. Rut.
Btmaing, 1Jry. Coloc. Cupr. 01. Ran. b.
Sabad. Tab.
- to the eyes extending, Spig.
- on the front, Clem. Coloc. Cupr. Ep.
Men. Sabad. Spig. .
- on the temples, Cupr. Spig.
-on the vertex, Cupr.
ChiUine11 in the head, with external
warmth ofit, Agn.
Clailla on the bead, ~ Amb. Hydr.
chl.corr. Stann. VeraL
- iln the part affected, Pot.jod.
Circumference, great, of the head, in
children, Calc. c. Sil.
Coldne11, on the h., Calc.c. Sulf>i.
- sens. o( Aman. Chef. Laur."VeraL
- - from the nape proceedins, Chel
- - from the ·vertex down to the
sacrum, when the headaebe Ml
over, Laur.
Contraction of the .scalp, Plat. Ran. IC.
Sod.chl. To:x.
- sens. of, Carb. v. Cinch.
Cree.ping aens., Cann. Staph.
CuU•ng pain on the h., Clem. SaM.
Dmlr p8JJl of the ex&. h., Sod.e.
Dtmdru.ff, on the h., Calc. c. Gnph.
Oleand. Staph.
-itching, ~c. Staph.
- - with ramL::fber, Mgn. c.
lh•quatNJtion,O .(comp.theabove.)
Diltortion of the h., Cupr.
From drsft ofair, pain, Aeon.
Drawing JIIWl on the h., Canth. Cinch.
Graph. Mp. in. Nitr. ac. Petr. Phos.
ac. Puis. 1Uw4. Rut. Sus. Sep. Staph.
Thuy. To:x.
- to the face extending, Mgn. m.
- to the glands of the throat, Graph. ·
- to the teeth exL, Graph. Mgn. JQ.
Petr.
- on- the temples and forehead, Petr.
Like drop~ of tDater falling upon the h.,
&eD&, Cann.
~ement ofthe b.,in children, Calc.
• - sens. of, Bov. Cor. Dule. Ind. Mang.
Ran. ec. Tber. -
,..... - in the occiput, Dulc.
Eruption, in general,.\Jog.&r. c. Calc.e.
Oic. H:rdr. Lye. Mez. Nitr. ao. Pew.
Sen. Stilph. SUlph. ao. .
- burning after I!ICratching, Oleaod.
- cruat,r, Ferr. m. To:x. .
-dry, Bar.c. Hydr. ·
- eaaag away the hair, Hydr. ~
Eruption, in general, fetid, stinking, Lye..
Staph. Sulph.
- herpetic, dry, To:x:.
- itching, Ferr. m. Hydr. Me.z. Oleand.
Sil. Staph. To:x:.
- '- at night, Oleand. To:x:.
- knots, lumps, Calc. s. Sil.
- moistening, Alum. Cak:. 11. Grapk.
H'l.dr. Kreos. Mez. Nitr. ac. Olean~.
Stl. Staph. Sulph.
- painful, Arg. Bar. c. Cale. s. Rut.
- periodical, every year, Tox.
- like pimples, Arg. Clem.
- with pus filled, Clem. Puis.
- scaly, Oleand.
- scurfy, see tinea.
- sore smarting, Calc. s. Rut.
- suppurating, Bar. m. Cic. Lye. To:x:.
- - greenish, Tox.
- tinea, scurf, Alum. Ars. Bar. c. Calc.c.
Calc. s. Carb. a. GraplJ,. Hldr. Kreos.
Oleand. Petr. Pot. c. Si . Sod. chL
Staph. Sulph. Tox.
- - dry, Dulc.
- - moist, Sil.
- to the t01tch pai·nful, C•lc. s. Rut.
Eruption on the forehead, temples &c'.,
see Sec. 12.
Erysipelas, Euph. Tox.
Festering pain (Unterschworenheits~
schmerz), Petr. Rhod. Sulph.ac.Tox.
Zinc. (comp. suggilatioo, ulcerous p.)
Fontanels open, in children, Calc. c. Sil.
Formication, Arn.Chel.Colch. Led. Ran.b.
Sabad. Tab. Tox.
Puruncles, Led.
Gnawin!J sens., Men.
Hair, bristling, Arn. Canth. Zinc.
- dry, Plumb. Pot. c.
- flabby, Phos. ac.
- flaxy, Phos. ac.
- gray, Graph. Lye. Phos. ac. Sulph. ac.
- greasy, Bry.
The hair falling out, Amb. Amm. c. Ant. s.
Aur. Bov. Calc. c. Calc. s. Carb. v. Con.
Ferr. Ferr. m. Graph. Hydr. Mgn. e.
Par. Petr. Phos. Phos. ac. PlumiJ.
Pot. e. Pot. nitr. Sass. Sec. Sel. Sep.
Sil. Sod. chl. Staph. Sulph. Sulph. ae.
(comp. baldness.)
- from the brows, Plumb. SeL
- - mustaches, Plumb.
__. - whiskers, Sod. chi.
- on the sides of the head, Graph.
- in lying-in women, Calc.c. Sod.chl.
Sulph.
Hair, painfulness of, Alum. Amb. Asar.
Calc. c. Caps. Cinch. Ferr. Mez. Par.
Sulph. Thuy. Verat. (comp. painful.
ness of the scalp.)
- when brushed backwards, Pul&. Tox.
- after scratching, Caps.
e
•
l
lliir,1
Cil
8ul
...
-on
-on
laol
...Ill
(.j
~
~
1
-u
-I
-I
-I
..
8. Exterior head.
Hair, painfuln of, to the touch, Amb.
Cinch. Hydr. sulph. rub. Ferr. Mez.
Sulph.
Heal, on the head, AJ. BelL Bry. Coloc.
- on the front, Ep. Euphr.
- on the spot affected, Pot.jod.
I7111110bility of the scalp, Arn. Berb.
Itching on the head, Agn. Alum. Ant.s.
Bar.c. Berb. Caps. Cyc. Graph. Hydr.
Led. Mez. Nitr. ac. Oleand. OL Phos.
Pills. Ran. b. Rhod. Rut. Sen. &p.
Sil Spong. tapb. Sulph. Sulph. ac.
Thuy. Zinc.
- in the evening, Agn. Berb. Rhod.
- at night, Oleand. To:x:.
- biti~, ~n. Led. Mez. Puis. Ran. b.
...:.... burnmg, llerb. Hydr. (comp. "Burn-
ing".)
- fretting (fr nd), Agn. Bar.c. Cape.
OleanrL Rbod. Rut. Staph. Thuy.
Tox.
- after I!ICratching increased, Hydr.
- - with pain, Caps.
- - cba~cbing :!':Jlace, Berb. Cic.
- - rupmg, 0 .
- in sleep, Agn.
- stin,P,ng, Berb. Cye. (eomp. "Bting-
~.)
Knittmg the brovJ•, Rhm. Viol.od.
Lice, PIM'. &lxul.
In lying, pain, Aur. Thuf.
When fMiticGtinK, pain m the temples,
Thuy.
Mobility, agility, of the b., Lam.
Motion~, eonvuwve of the h., Camph.
Cupr. Lye. &rtnn.
- distortion, Cupr.
- drawing aside, CGmpla.
- jerks, Alum. Cie. &,.
- opi.stothonus, Bell. tic. Ign. Stram.
- llliocks, Cic. Pot.e.
When openinl{ the IIIOIIIA, pain on tbe
temples, Ang.
M011t!fM71.t in the ecalp, EYon. 8ep. 8od.
chi.
When movinK the h. ext. p., Cupr. HeU.
M'ulcla, twitching of, Arg.
Nocturnal pain, Lye. Sod. e. Tboy.
- with ehiJlinel'll and chattering ofthe
teeth, Sod.&
Nflfrtlnta•, 118D8. ol, Ang. Herb. Caust.
Plat.
Pain.fulnu• of the eealp, Ara. Ber. e.
Caps. Ferr. Nitr. ac. Po&. Ditr. Sil.
Thuy. (eomp. "hair".)
- &om the pl'ei'IIUre of the hat, Carb.a.
Carb. v. Crot. Nitr.ae.
- after ecratching, Cape.
- w'heo touched, Arab. Ar!{. Ara. BoY.
HydT. auJpb. rub. Mez. Nuxv. Par.
Si1. Sod.elJL 8od. e. Spig.
Per.,Wtlliola oa dae heail, At1em. Bell.
Dry. Calc. e. Calc. e. CIG& Ciaeh.
Coloc. Dig. Graph. Guaj. Hydr. Led.
Rhm. 8ep. Verat.
Perlpiration on the head, in the e"fell-
ing, Calc.c. 8ep. '
-at night, Coloe.
- cold, Artem. Bry. Calc.e. Dig. Yer.t.
- hot, with the paioa, Cham.
- when walking, Led. ·
- - in the o~ air, Graph. Guaj.
Plica polonica, .K.reo.. Vinet~. (Bov.!
Lyc.1)
Preuifll! pain, ArK· Nitr. ac. Oleand.
Phoe. ac. Rbod.. &.•.
- on the fOrehead, Cic. Cinch.
- on the templee, Agar. Thny.
From JWeNVr'e, external, pain, Arg•
Carb.a. Carb. v. Crot. Nitr. ae.
- in.ereaEd, Aman.
Pridtlifll!, Sabael.
PvlNtiora, Cbel Guaj.
Like f'Ullin.rl thehair, pain, Canch.Ciaeh.
Jcid. Se[ Tox. ·
QtftvrrinK between the eye-brows when
1"88ding, Ang.
R.airing', frequently, the head from bed,
Stram.
Rtupifll! pain, alter ICI'Iltching, Oleand.
Remlifll!, ArK. Bry. Carb. a. Carb: t!.
Graph. Lye. OJ. Rbod. 8au. 8ep.
Sod. o. Sod. e. Tox.
- on tbe forehead, Olrb."· Sod.e.
- from the limbe coming, Corb. "· ··
- on the occiput, Carb. v.
- on the side, Carb. a.
- to the teeth and glands of the throat,
est., Grapb.
- on the vertex, Sod. e.
RMtun.tic pain, Staph.
With a roug4 wind, pain, Nuxv.
&;.~),,on the 11011lp, Ber. m.
Bcn.r,iR,ff' 1180& at the h. (Schaben), Lye.
~g,Bm.
&we.e,., sene. of, Alum. Amb. Arg.
Bry. Dro1. Nuxv. 01. Par. Sod.elil.
Staph. Zinc.
&we spots on the head, Dov.
~e pain, Bell.
&i~, on the h., Agn. C..t. Cinch.
Dig. Euphr. Guaj. Hydr. sutpb. rub.
01. Phoe. Phoe.ae. Ran. b. Rut. &.1.
Thuy. -
- on the forehead, Cinch. Euphr.
- on the !!idea ofthe b., Phoe.
- on the templee, Dig. Euphr. Guaj.
Thuy.
When •toopifll!, pain on the bead, HeU.
Btrfli'lliftg (Strammen), Caust.
Aa from ltlg~, _r.in, An. Ferr.
(Bee .. if"feetering .)
s-llir&(f, eens. of, Aeth. Gwj. ~·
(CIIIIIp. Jr.alargemen&.)
o,gitized by Google
8. Exterior head•...:... 9. Eyes and sight.
8wlling, seD& of, when entering into a
room, Aeth.
&DeUing ofthe bead, Ars. Cham. Cupr.
To,:.
• - with redoe88 offace, Cupr.
To tGke cold, liability (Verkliltliehkeit),
Bar. c. Calc. c. Carb. v. Led. Lye.
Phoe. Pot. c. Sod. chi.
Tentkme11 (Empfiridlichkeit) of the ext.
head, Bov. Carb. a. Carb. v. Oincl.
Crot. Myr. Nitr. ac. Pot. nitr. SaN.
Sel. Sil. Spoog. Tong. (comp. "Pain-
fulne1118".)
Tendeme•• ofthe templee, Myr.
Tettrion (Spannen) in the sCalp, Agn.
Ang. Ain. Asu. Berb. CatUt. Hydr.
Nitr.ac. 01. Rut. Tar. Viol. oJ.
- ontheforeh., Carb.a.Evon.Par. Phoe.
- "'n the temples, :when maatieat., Anl.
- on the vertex, Carb. a.
Throbbing, in the temples, Guaj.
Tig~• of the acalp,, Hydr. Lam. Spig.
Tinea, see "eruption'.
Tingling, aee "Formication".
Tlainne11 ofthe skull, BeDS. of, BelL
To the foiiM, ll&in~ Aman. A.&.
.An. An. lJov. Oinda. Cupr. Ferr.
HyG.r. 8Ulph. rub. Mez. Myr. Nuz 11.
' Par.. Petr. Pule. Sil. Sod. ehl. Spig.
Thuy. (comp. "pre811ure".)
-increased by it, Aman. Bry. Mez.
Sus.
When ·touchifllt the hair, pain, Aman.
. Amb. Cinc6. Ferr. Hyar. sulph. rub.
Mez. Pull. Tox.
.Tremor of the head, Alum. Aftt. tart.
Bell. Cocc. Hy01c. Tab.
Tumor1, stnall, see boils.
'IWitehing on the h., Anum. Bry. Hell
l!lcer1, small, Rut.
UlcfJf'OUI pain, after l!llll'atcbing, Pot.jod.
By tDalking, incr. p., Sa1111. ·
Warmth, sene. of, Verat.
Wealmen, ofthe h., Am. Cmut. Cinch.
Cupr. Rhod. Spong. Viol. od.
- witn mlling backwards, Camph.
Cinch. Dig. Rhod. Viol. tric.
- - forwards, Cupr.
- - sidewardt!, Spon~.
From fDf'OTig lifting, pam, Amb.
g. Eyes and sight.
,.tf711JurOiil, .Aur. BeU. Dig. Dulc. Guaj.
Phoe. Plumb. Sec. Sep. 8il. Zinc.
- incipient, Aftt. tart. Cap~. Comt.
Oinch. Hydr. Hyoec. Pull. Rut. &d.
cAl. Spig. 8ulph. To~.
Atu'imu look, AI. Am.
Arthritic affection, Ant.s. Ars. Bell. Bry.
Calc.s.Cham.Coloc.Dig.Hydr. Nuxv.
Puis. Spig. Tox.
Biti"!! in the eyea,Carb.v. Caust. Cinch.
Clem. Euphr, Graph. Hydr. Lye.
Mar. Nw:v. OL Petr. Pot.c. Pot.jod.
Rhm. Sabad. Sep. SiL Stann. Staph.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Thuy. Tox.
Tal: VioL tric. Zinc.
-below the eyes when rubbing, Con.
- in the lids, Clem. Lye. Sep. Spig.
Sulpla. Zinc.
-in the comers (eaothi), Ant. tart.
Carb. v. Con. Mar. Mez. Mur. ac.
Ran. b. Ran.1c. Rut.Sil. Stapla. Sulph.
Zinc.
- as from dust, Rhm. .
Blearedne11 (lippitudo), Aeon. Euphr.
Hydr. Par. Puis. Rhs. SrnJl.
Bleeding from the eyes, Seii. Calc. c.
Carb.v. Cham. Nw:v.
- - the lids, BeU.
Btindne11, paroxysms of (in the day),
Aeon. Con. NJJX v. Phol. PoL nitr.
. Sil. Stram. Sulph.
- in t~e evening, Bell.
- at rught, Bel£ HJOIC. PulaJ. Ver.t.
Blindne11, paroxysms of, in the sun-
heat, Con.
Bloate411U1 of the lids, Spong.
Blood, congestion of, to the eyes, Alum.
Bell. Sen. Plumb.
- - when stooping, Sen.
- specks in the eye-ball, Nw: 11.
Bluenu1, of the eyea, Verat.
- the lids, DW. ·
- the canthi, Sass.
Boil on the eantb111, Bry.
Boring, seos. in the eyes. Puis. Spig.
Too bright seeming every thing, CampiL
Brit{ht appearances 1before the eyea,
(Photopaia):
a) kind.
- brightness, clearness, PoLc. VIII.
- circles, fiery, Pols.
- fire, Aur. BelL Bry. Cann. Pula. Viol
od. Zinc.
- ilashes of light (Blitze), Croo. Sod. c.
. Spig. Staph.
- fiocks, fiery, Zinc.
- glittering, ·AI. Alum. Amrn. c. Ant.
tart. Caust. Cham. Graph. Jod. Led.
Lye. Petr. Plat. Sen. Staph. Stroot.
Tab. Ther. Verat.
- shining spots, Sen.
- lp8l'ks, Aur. Bar. c. Bell. Caust. J>ia'.
Dulc. Hydr. Jod. Lye. Op. Pot.c. Sil.
Sod. s. S.ttaph. Val. Verat.
- •t.reaboflight,ADam.c.Sep. Sod.ebL
o,gitized by Google
9. Eyes and sight.
Bright appearances before the eyes,
(Photopsia):
b) condition.
- in the evening, Pot. c.
- after blowing the nose, Sod. s.
- with closed eyes, Pot. c.
- in the dark, Bar. c. Staph. Val.
- when raising the eyes, Zinc.
- when risiug from lying, Verat.
- - from sitting, Ant. tart. Vera&.
AB if bruised, pain, Ant. tart. Cole. 1.
Cocc. Verat.
- in the lids, Calc. s.
- in the sockets, Cnpr.
Burning, in the eyes, Agn. Alum. Amb.
Amm. c. Ang. Ars. Assa. As•. Aur.
Bar. c. Bry. Calad. Calc. c. Calc. e.
Canth. Caps. Garb. v. Cast. Cauet.
Cham. Cic. Coloc. Con. Cor. Croc.
Ferr. Graph. Grat. Hydr. Jamb. Laur.
Led. Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mang.
Nice. Nux v. 01. Par. Petr. Phell.
Phos. Pot. c. Pot. jod. Pot. nitr. Pule.
Rhod. Rut. Sabad. Sass. Sen. Sep.
Sod. c. Sod. chi. Sod. s. Spig. Stano.
Staph. Strout. Sulph. Sulph.ac. Tab.
Tar. Thuy. Tong. Tox. Val. Vio]. od.
Zinc.
- below the eyes, when rubbing, Con.
- in the brows, Dig.
- in the canthi, Aman. Amm.m. Ant.
tart. Carb. v. Nuxv. Phos. PhOI.fiC.
Ran. b. Scill. Sulph.
--edges, Nuxv.
-in the lids, BeD. CaJc.c. Croe. Lye.
Oleand. Phell. PhOI. ac. Sus. Sen.
Stann. Sulph. Zinc. .
Clmdle-light, seeming too dark, Euphr.
- &ring, Anae. Euphr.
- by a halo surrounded, Anae. BeD.
Pot. nitr. Sep. Stann. Sulph.
- - green, &p.
- - rain-bow colored, Ferr. m. Pot.
nitr. Stann.
Cataracta, Amm. c. Cann. Cauat. Con.
Mgn. c. Phos. Pull. Sil.
- after contusion, Con.
Cemtmtetl together, by matter, Al-.
Bar. c. Bell. Bry. C8Jc. c. Dig. Euph.
Graph. lgn. Led. Lye•.Mgn.c. Nux v.
PhOI. Pot. c. Pul.. ,Rhod. Spong.
8tsph. Thuy.
- in the morning, Chel. Mgn. e. Mang.
Nux v. Pot. c. Sass.
-at night, Alum. Amm.e. Ang. Ant.e.
Bov. Dry. Cale.s. Carb.v. Cast. Cham.
Croc. Euth. Kram. Lvc. Mgn. tn.
NWt v. 0 . Phos. Plumb. SasS. 8ep.
8il. Stann. Stram. Sulph. Tar.Verat.
CIIoutU, before the eyes, Berb. Cu&. 01.
Sabin.
- before &he righ~ eye, Ferr. m.
Coldna1 in the eyes, Alum. Amm. e.
Assa. Calc. e. Con. Lye. Plat. ·
- edges of the lid, Phos. ac. ·
- the canthi, Asar.
- in the evening,.Lye.
- when walking in the open air, Al~m.
Con.
Colour~, before the eyes, Amm. m. Cic.
Dig. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Sus. Stram.
Stroot.
- blue, Strout.
- green, Dig. Sep. Stroot.
-red, Bell. Con. Croc. Hyoec. Sass.
Strout. .
- variegated, Cie. Dig. Pot. c. Pot. nitr.
Stram. ·
- yellow, Canth. Dig.
condition. •
- in the evening, Pot. nitr. Sus.
- round the candle, Cic. Pot. nitr. Sep.
Stann.
- in the dark, Stroot.
- when reading, Oroc.
- in a room, COn.
- after robbin~ the eye, Stroot.
Compre11ion ot the eyes, Plat. Verat.
Viol.od.
- of the lids, Assa. Euphr.
Condylomata, in the brows, Thuy.
Congestion of the blood, to the eye~~,
Alum. Bell. Sen. Plumb.
- when stooping, Sen.
Coujunctiva, pustules on, Hydr.
- swollen, Bell. Bry. Sulph.
Contracting sens. in. the eyes, Euphr.
Kram. Plumb. Sc1ll. Verb.
- - in the lids, Euphr. Nuxv. Plumb.
Rhod. Tab. Vrol. tric. , -
Contraction, spasmodic, ofthe lids, Aeon.
Ant. tart. Calc.c. Calc. e. Cham. Croc.
Cupr. Hydr. Hyosc. Plumb. Sil. Sod.
chi. Spong. Staph. Stram. Sui~
Viol. od. (eomp. Spasm, opening dfdi.
cult, &c.)
- in the morning, Calc.e. Spong. Sulph.
- in the evening, Calc. s.
Convullions of the eyes, Bell. Canth.
Cupr. Hyosc. lgn. Spig.
- ofthe lids, Ign. Rhm. (comp. twitch-
ing and spasm.)
- occasioned by light, BeD.
Cornea; fungus hrematodes, Calc.e. Lye.
Sep. Sit.
- in11ammation, Euphr. Spig.
- opacity, Ang. Calc. c. Cann. Cinch.
Euph. Mgn. c. Puls. 8en. Suiph.
- - as from dust on it, Sulpb.
- specks, spots (maculae), Ani. Aur.
BeU. Calc. c. Calc. '· Con. Euplar.
Nitr. ac. Sil. (Lye.! Sep.1)
- uleel"', Calc. e. Calc. •· 8il. Sod. e.
- - ......, from them, Eupir. 8il.
Digitized by Coogle
9. Eyea and sight.
Corwecr, veei.clea on it, Sulpb.
Cutting Jlllin in the eyes, Calc. c. Coloc.
Hydr. Pule. Verat. VioL tric.
- in the lids, Calc. c. Hydr.
Dcrk, black bodies before the eyee:
- elouda, Cut. OJ. Sabin.
- flies, Aman. Hydr.
-net-work, Anac. Bar.c. Cmuf.
- points, Amm. e. Amm.m. Con. Cinch.
· Hydr. Nitr. ac. Rut. Sep. Sod.e. Sod.
ehl. Tab. Tereb. Thuy.
-spots, Amen. A~. m. Anac. Bar.c.
Coec. Evon. Mgn.c. Phoe. Pot.e. Seo.
Sep. Sil. Tereb.
- lltanl, Cast.
- streaks, Phoe. ae.
condition.
- in the day-~ime, Amm. m.
- with candle-light, evening, Amm. m.
- when gazing at an7 thing, Amm.m.
- - into the open atr, PoL c.
- when reading, Pot. e.
- when rising from sitting or lying,
Verat.
- in a room, Con.
Darlmeu before the eyee, Amb. Am.
Aesa. Asar. Berb.'Bry. Calc.e. Calc. a.
Campb. Cham. Cic. Cinch. Cupr.
Evon. Graph. Lact. Laur. Lye. Men.
Oleand. Op. Phoe. Pot. nitr. Pula.
SeiU. Sod.coL Str-. Thvy.
- from the smell ofcamphor, Pot.nitr.
-from candle-light, Phoe.
- with dyseeoia alternating, Cie.
- when lookin~ sidewards, Oleand.
- - at any thmg white, Cham.
- after meals, C&lc. e.
- when reading, Calc. c. Calc. s. Men.
Tbuy.
-on one side only, Cham.
- with sleepiness, Thuy.
- when stooping, Graph. Sod. chi.
- when walking, Sod.ehL
- when writing, Aesa.
D.,-blWlne••· Con. Sulph.
Dazzled eyes, Con.
- in the evening, Lye.
- by bright Ji«ht, Bar. e. Calc. c. Con.
' Droe. Lye. ~itr. ae. Pot. c. Sil. (comp.
Photophobia.)
- when gazing at any thing bright,
Phoe.ac.
- when rending, Sen.
Dozzling spot before the eyes, CheL
~ 1ected eyes, see "sunken".
DilafMllids, Ant. s.
Dimne11, of the eyes (Triibhei&), Aat.
tart. Arn. Ars. Bell. Bov. Bry. Coa.
Ferr. Hydr. Moseh. Spi!. Spong;
Stann. Stram. (eomp. DulDells,lustre-
lesaoess.)
Dim.hte4raeu, Alum. A-. Alai..
Amm. e. Amm. m. Anac. Ang. Ant.
tart. Artem. Bar. c. &rb. Calc. c.
Calc. s. Cann. Cap•. Caust. Chel. Coce.
Croc. Cyc. Euph. Hydr. Hyosc. Led.
Lvc. Mgn. c. Mang. OZ. Phos. Phos. ac.
Pfat. Plumb. Puls. Rut. Sa11. Sen.
Sod. c. Sod. chi. Sod. s. Staph. Stram.
Sulpb. Tab. Thuy. Val. Verb.
Dimsightedness, with increased bright-
ness alternating, Calc. s.
- like feathers before the eyes, Calc. c.
Lye. Sod. c. Sod. chi.
- like gauze before the eyes, Calc. c.
Caust. Croc. Petr. Plat. Sec. Sep.
Sod. chi. Sulph. Tab. Thuy. Verb.
- glittering, Alum. Amm. c. Ant. tart.
Led. Sen.
- misty, Alum. Amb. Amm. m. Arg.
Bell. Calc. c. Caust. Cyc. Evon. Hydr.
Phell. Phos. ac. Plumb. Rut. Sass.
Sec. Sulph.
- like water in the eyes, Staph.
-to wij>e, compelling, Croc. Plumb.
Puls.
- by wiping, relieved, Artem. Caps.
- - increased, Sen.
condition.
- in the morning, Caps. CheZ. Puis.
- in the evening, Calc. s. Croc. Puis.
Tab.
- with candle-light, Calc.s. Croc.
- after exertion of the eyes, Rut.
- when looking at a distance, Cast.
Rut.
- - intently, Calc. c. PhelL .
-:- when reading, Artem. Bu.c. Calc.e.
Croe. Rbod. Sep.
- after reading, Rut.
•- after sleep at noon, Puis.
- when wnting, Rhod. Sep.
Diplopia, Aman. Amm.e. BelL Cic. Con.
Eupb. Hyosc. Jod. Nitr. ae. Petr.
Puis. Sec. Sod. chi. Stram. Vera,.
Dilability of the lida, Graph. (comp.
Stiffiu• and opening diflicul&.)
Diltance of objecas, seeming greater,
Anac. Stann. Sulph. ·
Diltentior&. BeDs. of; Canst. Con. (comp.
enlargement.)
Diltortion, of the eyes, Aeon. Ani. BeU.
C.mph. Cha111. Cv.pr. Hyo~e. IA'III'.
Op. Petr. Phoe. ac. Plat. Plumb.
Rim. sc. -See. Spig. Stano.. Stram.
Verat. (comp. Convulsions.)
DoumtDardl preuure in the eyes, Hell.
. Sen.
- - in the lids, Chel.
Drawing sensstion in the eyes, Cann.
Colch. 01.
- about the eyes, Plat.
- in the lids, ~leh. Rhm. Sen. Tong.
Dryneu of the e,-, A-. Croc. Law.
u·' ti.eo~yGoogle
..__,
-
9. Eyes and sight.
Mgn. c. !tfang. Myr. Phell. Puls.
Rhod. Sen. Sod. chi. Spig. Staph.
Sulph. Tong. Zinc.
Dryness of the lids, Aeon. Eupb. Puls.
Verat.
- - edges, Cham.
- the canthi, Euph.
Dryness, sens. ofm the eyes, Asar. Assa.
Bar. c. Berb. Myr. Sil.
- - the lids, Bar. c. Berb.
- - the canthi, Ang. Thuy.
Dulness of the eyes (Mattigkeit), Ang.
Arn. Asar. Bell. Bov. Bry. Cinch.
Con. Cyc. Ferr. Hydr. Hyosc. Jod.
Nitr. ac. Phos. ac. Pot. c. Rhm. Sabin.
Spig. Spong. Stann. Val. Verat.
Dulnu1 of the eyes, after little exertion,
Ferr.
- after meals, Val.
- while reading, Grat.
Like dust in the eyes, sens., Rhm. Sulph.
- on the cornea, Snlph.
Ectropium, Bell.
E.fllorescem;e, about the e,yes, Staph.
- below the eyes, Calc. s.
-on the brows, Guaj. Sel. Thuy.
- on the lids, Calc. s. Sil.
Enlargement of the eyes, sens. of, Calad.
Mez. Op. Par. Phos. ac. Plumb. Spig.
(comp. Swelling.)
Eruption on the brows, yellow-crusty,
Spon~.
Exsudatwn of blood from the eyes, BelL
Calc.c. Carb.v. Cham. Nuxv.
- - the lids, Bell.
Eye-gum, Amm.c. Ant.s. Bism. Graph.
Ipec. Nux v. Sen. Staph. (comp.
mucus.)
- on the lids, Amm. c. Graph. Sen.
- - in the morning, Sen.
-in the canthi, Ant. s. Bism. Nux v.
Staph.
Falling down, the lids, Aeon. Bell.
Graf.h. Op. Phell. Sep. Sod. c. Viol. od.
Vio . tric. Zinc.
Feverish sight, Sol. m.
Fkwing ap~ranee of tbe light, aee
"candle- · ht".
Flalau of ~ t, befure the eyes, Croe.
Sod.c.Spg.Stapb.
Fltno of teors, Aeon. Ewz~Ar. Hydr. Ptlf'.
Pula. Spig. Tox.
As from foreign bodies, pain, Aoon. Am.
Calc. c. Sulpla.
Fretting about the eyes, .Ap. Plat.
- in the'brows and lids, Agn.
Likefire llp8l'kling &om the eyes, seD&,
Dulc.
Pire, glare o( intolerable, Jlydr.
Fized look (Starneben), lleJL Pot. c.
Rut. Sen. (eomp. Vani8bing ofsight.)
Pulneu, eeos. of, in the eyee, Myr.
~heematodes,oftbe cornea,Calc.c.
£ye. Sep. Sil.
..;_ medullaiis,.in the eye, &U.
GtJUZe before the eyes, see "dimsighted·
nees".
Glas.yappearanceofthe eyes, Bry.Cocc.
Op. Phos. ae. See.
- in the mon_Ung, Sep.
Glaucoma, Phos.
Glittering, see "bright appearance".
Grubb!~ pain in the eyes, Colch. Spig.
Hllir, tailing off&om the brows, Plumb.
Set .
Hair, sens. ofone in the eye, Tab.
H64t in the eyes, Ang. BeU. Carb. v.
Cham. Cor. Ep. Graph. Mang. Phos.
Plat. Sabin. SiL Spig. Tab. Verat.
Verb. VioL od.
- the canthi, Carb. v. Phoe. Thuy.
- when elol!ing the eyes, Cor.
- in the evening with candle -light,
Graph.
Hla11iness in the eyes, Hell. Plumb.
Sulpb.
-the lids, Aeon. BelL Cham. Graph.
Nux v. PheU. · Sep. Sod. a. Spong.
Sulpb. VioL od. •
HemeriJlopitl (night • blindness), BeU.
Hyuc. Verat.
Hemiopia, Sod.ehL
- horizontal, Aur.
- perpendicular, Lye. Mur. ac.
Herpu on the lid, Bry.
Hortkol'IUA on the lid, Amm. c. Dry. Con.
Ferr. Graeb. Lye. Phoe. Pfwe. ae.
Pu~.Se~Stann.Tox.
Rltuions of sig-ht in general, Camph.
Coee. Dig. Hyoec. Stram. .
- things seeming larger, Hyoec. Laur.
Nice.
- - smaller, Plat. Stram.
Immobility of tbe eyes, Amm. e. Ang.
. Bar. m. Kram. (eomp. "motion difti.
cult".) ·
lndutinct vision, Pot. jod. Stram.
In iAfants, affection of the eyes, Aeon.
BeU. Bry. Calc. c. Claam. Euphr.
Nuxv. PUla. Sod. bor. SuiJ.lb.
ln.flammatilm, of the eyes, 1n general,
Aeon. Amb. Ant.•· Ar•. Aur. Bar. c.
BeU. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Cnlad.
Camph. Cann. Canth. Caps. Caullt.
Cham. Cinch. Clem. Coloe. Con. Cupr.
Dig. Dulc. Euph. Euphr. Ferr. Gr~.
Hydr. Hydr. chi. corr. Hydr. sulph.
rub. Jamb. Ign. Jed. Ipec. Kram. Led.
Lr,c. Mgn. c. .Mgn. m. Mar. Mez.
Nitr. ac. Nru: 11. Op. Petr. Phos.
Phos. ac. Plumb. Pot.c. Ptm. Ran: b.
&p. Sil. Sod.c. Sod.chi. SpW. ~h.
Stilph. Sulph. ao. Tar. Thuy. Verlll.
Zinc.
Digitized by Coogle
490 9.·Eyes and sight~
btflammotitm, of the lids, Acbr6. Ara.
Bar. c. BelL Dry. Calc. I . Caust. Cocc.
Lye.f!!p. Sod.c. Spig. Sulph. TAuy.
Toz. Zme.
- - edges, Cham. Clein. Dig. Euphr.
PuU. Staph. Stram.
- ofthe canthi, Zinc. ·
- of the earuncles, Berb.
- ofthe cornea, Euphr. Spig•
- of the itis, Clem.
- of the ~upil, Plumb. ·
l'!flammatwn of the eyes, lid&, &e. &e.
- acute, Aeon.Dry. Cham. Hydr. Nuxv.
Puis.
- arthritic, Ant.s. Ars. Bell. Dry. Calc.s.
Cham. Coloc. Dig. Hydr. Nuxv. Puis.
Spig. Tox. .
-catarrhal, after a cold, Aeon. Bell.
, Calc.c.Cham.Jod. Nuxv.Pula.Suiph.
- erysipelatous, Aeon. Calc.8.
- ecrophulous, Are. Aur. Bell. Calc. c.
Calc. s. Cann. Caust. Cinch. Dig.
Dule. Euphr. Ferr. Hydr.Ign. Mgn.e.
Puz v. Pul8. Sod.ebL Sulph.
- syphilitic, Hydr. Nitr. ac.
- ofdifferent kinds, Nt~z v. Plw1. Sulph.
(comp. inft. ia general.)
- in the evening, increased, Cinch.
- from extraneous bodies, Aeon. Am.
Calc. c. Sulph.
- with headache, Led. Verat.
- in infunts, Aeon. Bell. Bry. Calc. c.
Cham. Euphr. Nuxv. Puls. Sod. boL
Suiph.
- from sand and dust, Sulph.
Iritil, see "inflammation".
Irritation of the eyes, in the. evening
with candle-light, Lye.
Itching in the eyes, Aman. Ant.s. Arg.
Brue. Calc. e. Carb. v. CaU8t. Nuxv.
01. Petr. Ph8U. Puis. Ran.b. Scp. Sil'
Sod.ehl Stann. Sulph. Viol. tric. Zinc.
- about the eyes, Agn. Con.
- in the browe, ~
,.... in the lids, Agn. Amb. BeU. Croo.
Euph. Grat. Palon. Sep. SulpA. Zinc.
--lid, ed~ ofthe, Nuxv. Staph.
- in the canthi, Arg. Brue. Carb. v.
Con. Euph. F.
err. m. Led. .Mur. ac.
Noxv. Rut. Staph. Sulph. Zinc.
- in the evening, Cupr.
- by rubbing relieved, 01.
Lachrymal fiStula, Calc. c. Petr. Phos.
Sil. Sod. c. Stann.
Lachrymation, aee "Ruaning with
water". .
Light, longed for (Liohtsuoht); Aeon.
BelL .
-shunned (Lichtscheu), see Photo-
phobis.
I
Dippittido, 11ee Blearednetil.
Long-rightedne11, see Presbyopis.
Loo1eneBB of the eyes in the sockete,
sene. ot; Carb. e. .
Lump1 in the lids, Staph. Sulph. Thuy.
Lustrelelsne81, Am. Asar. Bell. Bov.
Dry. Hydr. Phos. ae. Sabin. (comp.
dulness, dimnees.)
Like a membrane drawn over the eyes,
sens., Kram.
Moiltening spot on the canthus, Ant. s.
Motion ofthe eyes, difficult, Arn. Calc.s.
-of the lid!!, Arn•.Myr.
Motion of the lines,.when reading, Cie.
· Con.
Motionle11 eyes (Starrheit der Augen),
Aeth. Ang. Ant. tart. Am. Bar. m.
Bell. Camph. Cie. (comp....staring
look".) ,
Mucus secreted from the eyes,' ·~·
Eu'/IAr. Sulph. (eomp. "eye-gum'
and "eemerited".) ·
- - the lids, Graph. Sulph•.
- - the canthi, Euph. E'uphr.
- day and night, Sulph.
Myoma, Aman. Amm. e. Aoae. Ang.
Carb. v. Con. Euph. Graph. Grill.
Hyosc. Kram. Lye. Mang. Mez. Nitr.
ae. 01. Petr. Pho1. Phos.ac. Plumb.
Puis. Spong. Stram. Suiph.ae. Thuy.
Val. Viol. od, VioL tric.
- when read.ing, Grat.
As if a nail stuck in the orbital margin,
pain, Hell. .
Nearer seems every.thing, Bov.
Nervous affect. ofthe eyes, Cie.
Night-blindne11,.BeU. Hyose. Verat.
Nycta/,qpia (day-blindness), Con. Sulph.
Oblique'iy drawn lids, Sen.
Ob1cure right, see •'dimsightedness".
Qpacity.of the cornea, see ''comea".
To open.the lids, difficulty, Amb. Arg. '
Cauat. Hydr. · Pot. e. Sod. e. Spi«.
Sulpb.ac. · ·
-in the morning, Amh. Nitr.ae.
- at'night, Cocc. &p.
Openaeu, spasmodic, of the eyes, A.ft&'.
Am. Bell. Laur. Op.
,.... io sleep, BelL Bey. Ferr. Ipec. Op.
Phos. nc. Samb. Sulpb. Verat.
Outward~ ~. in the eyes, Guaj.
Mgn. s. Mez. Sen. (eomp. •'elllarge-
numt'':) · ·
As if over1hadowed seems every thing,
Sen.
Pale appearance ofthinga, Puis.
- wh.eo ~~. Sil. ·
Paralysi1 of the lids, Bell. Nitr. ae. Op.
Plumi. Ssp. Stram. Tox. Verat. Zinc.
. :(comp. Stiffness.)
-of the optic nerves, Aur.BeU. (comp.
Amauroeis.)
Digitized b; Coogle
'
9. Eyes and sight. 491
Photophobia, Aeon. Amm. c. Arum. m.
Anac. Ant. s. Artem. Bar. Bell. Bry.
Calc. s. Camph. Cast. Caust. Cic.
Cinch. Clem. Euphr. Graph. Hell.
Hydr. lgn. Mgn. s. Nux v. Phos.
Phos. ac. Pot.c. Pot. jod. Pula. Sen.
Sep. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. s. Sulph. Sulph.
ac. Tab. Tar.
- with candle-light, Calc. s. Cast. Phos.
- in the day-time, Ant. s. Calc. s. Graph.
Hell. Nux v. Phos. Phos. ac. Sep. Sil.
- in the morning, Amm. c. Amm. m.
N'IIZv. Sod. s.
- after onanism, Artem.
- from sun-light, Cast. .
Presbyopia, Bry. Carb. a. Con. Dros.
Hyosc. Led. Mez. Nux v. Petr. Sep.
Sil. Sod. chi. Spig. Sulph.
Preuing asunder, sens., Asar.
- inwards, sens. in the eyes and sockets,
Aur. Bell. Cann. Cinch. Cor. 7'ab.
Zinc.
Pressure, on and in the eyes, Alum.
Aman. Amb. Anac. Ang. Ant. tart.
Bar. c. Bism. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Carb. v. Cast. Caust. Cham. Cinch.
Clem. Cocc. Con. Croc. Cupr. Dig.
Dulc. Euphr. Ferr. m. Graph. Grat.
Hydr. sulph. rub. lgn. Led. Lye.
Mang. Mez. Nitr.ac. Nuxv. 0\eand.
01. Petr. Phos. Phos. ac. Plat. Plumb.
Pot. c. Puls. Ran. b. Ran. sc. Rhm.
Rhod. Rut. Sabad. Sass. Sen. Sep.
Sil. Sod. s. Spig. Spong. Staph.
Stram. Stroot. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab.
Thuy. Tox. Val. Verat. Zinc.
- round the eyes, Arn.
- in the brows, Dig.
- in the canthi, Afum. Carb. v. Stann.
Staph. Tar.
- from the face upwards, Rhod.
- in the lids, Bry. Cham. Croc. Cupr.
Graph. Rhm. Sen. Sil. Spong. Stann.
Staph. Stram. Sulph.
- in the orbits, Bov. Con. Cor.
- in the orbital bone, Bov. Par.
- in the orbital margin, Cinch. Rhod.
Prickling, in the evening, at candle-
light, Sep.
Protrusion of the ey~ , Aeon. Aeth. AI.
Ang. Arn. Aur. Bell. Calc. s. Canth.
Caps. Cinch. Cocc. Con. Cupr. Hydr.
chl. corr. Hyosc. Laur. Op. Stann.
Verat.
Pseudopsia, see Dlusions of sight.
Pulsation in the eyes, Asar.
Pupils, contracted, Anac. Camph. Cic.
Lact. Mang. Myr. Plumb. Puis. Rhm.
Samb. Scill. Sec. VeraL Zinc.
- contracted one, the other dilated,
Rhod.
- to contract, difficulty, Nitr.ac.
PvpiU, dHated, Acora. Ago. Bar.m. Bdl.
Calc. c. Carb. a. Cic. Oroc. Cyc. Dig.
Guaj. Hyose. Ign. Ipec. Lact. LGw
Led. Mang. Op. Pbos. ac. Samb. Sec.
Sod.c. Scill. Spig. Stram. Verat.
- insenlible, Cupr. Dig. Stram.
- mmionlet!8, Laur. Op.
Pmhde• on the conjunctiva, Hydr.
Quivering, of the eyes, Amm.m. Kram.
Petr. Sil. Stann. Tox. (comp. "twitch-
ing".)
- of the brows, OJ. Rut.
- ofthe canthi, Phos.
- of the lids, Aman. Assa. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Croc. Grat. Ind. Kram. Ol.
Par. Petr. Phell. Phos. Plat. Rhod.
Sabin. Sep.Stroot. Sulph. Tong. Tox.
R.tuping pain in the eyes, Calc.c. Jod.
Lye. Phos. Plat. Pot. c. Sil. Sod.chL
- in the lids, Calc.c. Sil.
- in the canthi, Phos. Staph.
To read fllmall printing, inability, Sod. c.
Redne., o( the eyes, Aeon. AI. Ang.
Ant. tart. Arn. Aur. Bell. Bry. Cap&
Con. Cupr. Ferr. Hydr. Hyo~. Ign.
l_pec. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mar. Nux v.
Up. Pot. c. Sep. Sil. Srnir. Stram.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. "TJluy. Toz.
v~t. .
- of the lids, Aeon. Ant. •· Bell. Bry.
Ferr. Graph. Mur. ac. Nux v. Pula.
&p. Sod. chi. Sulpb.
--edges, Arg. Berb. Sabad. Val.
- of the canthi, and conjunctiva, BelL
Bruc. Bry. Mar. Tab. Zinc.
- ofthe vema in the eyes, Acoa. Aeth.
Bell. Phos. ac. Spig.
Red spots on the lid, Campb.
Rendmg in the eyes, Asilr. Berb. Lett.
Lye. Nuxv. Pot.c. PuZ.. Scill. Verst.
Zmc.
- in the brows, Thuy.
- in the lids, Berb. Plumb.
- outwards, Sil.
Retraction, sene. of, Calc. s.
Running with water, the eyes, Alum.
Arn. BeD. Bry. Calc. s. Caps. Cast.
Caust. Cinch. Clem. Coloc. Oroc. Dig.
Euph. Euphr. Ferr. Graph. Gra&.
Hydr. Hydr. sup_h. rub. Jamb. lgn.
Jod. Led. Lye. MgD. c. Mgn.s. Mar.
Nuxv. 01. Par. Petr. Pho8. Phos.ac.
Pot.c. Pot. nitr. Puis. Ran. b. Ran.
8c. Rhm. &bad. Sabin. Sen. 8ep. 8il.
Sod. s. Spig. Stram. Sulph. Svlph.
ac. Tar. Thuy. Toz. Verat. (comp.
Blearedness.)
condition.
-in the morning, Calc.c. Kram. Par.
Sep.
...... in the evening, Hydr. Sep.
- in cold air, Piils.
Digitized by Coogle
9. Eyes and sight.
Rtmnirw with waller, the eyee, when
oouglling, Sabad.
- when gaping, &bad. Staph. VioL od.
-when gazing at any tliing, Hydr.
Sulpb.rub.
- - qht, CheL Mgn.m. Sabad.
- in the open air, PhelL Pboe. Pule.
Rhm. Sabad. Sen. Sep. 8il. Thuy.
- with the paina, Sabad.
- when reading, Croc. Grat.. 8ulph. ac.
- in wind, Plw1. '
- after writing, Ferr.
Rursning togetller, the letters when read·
ing, Bry. Droe. Graph. Lye. Sen. SiL
Sod. ebl. Stram.
&Ill look, Stram.
AJJ from 1and in the eyes, pain, Alum.
Aaea. Berb. Brue. Dry. CaJ!!L Cauat.
Cinch. Graph. Hydr. Mar. OL Phoe.
SiL Stroot. Sulph. Tar. Thuy. VioL
trie.
&cbl round the eyes, Hydr.
- on the broWB, Sep.
- on the lids, Hydr. Sep.
&or• in the cornea, Euphr. SiL
&otomia,Acon.Anac.Arg.Cale.e.Cale.s.
Canth. Carb. a. Cie. Hydr. Hyose.
Laur. Nu:x; v. Oleand. Par. Puts. Sa-
bad. Sabin. Stram. Tereb. Zinc.
&roping pain in the eyes, Puis.
Scrophulmu affection of the eyes, Aeon.
Ars. Aur. BelL Calc. e. Calc. s. Cann.
Oawt. Cinch. Dig. Dule. Euphr. Ferr.
Hydr. Ign. Mgn.e. Nun. Pull. Sod.
chL Sulph.
Slaitaing eyes (gliinzende), Aeth. BelL
Cupr. Nux v. (oomp. SJ18rkling.)
Shine before the eyes, black, Phoe.
- variegated, round objects, Cie.
-round the candle, Anae. &U. Pot.
nitr. Sep. Stann. Staph.
- - green, Sep.
- - rainbow-colored, Pot. nitr. Stann.
Shooting p., Berb.
SideiDIJrM turned eyes, Dig.
Sleepy affect. of the eyes, Aeon. Ant.
tart. Aasa. PheU. Plat. Plumb. Thuy.
VioL od. Viol. tr.
Smoky background of the eyes, Cinch.
In the 10eket1, pain, BeU. Jod. SeL Spig.
&reneu, sens. of, in the eyes, Ant. s.
Bar. e. Calc. s. Canth. Cham. Cor.
Croc. Stann. Zinc.
- of the lids, Bar. e. Calc. •· Canth. Cor.
Croe. Spig. Zinc.
- - edges, Arn. Nux v. Val.
- of the canthi, Ang. Cham. Nux v.
Ran. b. Zinc.
- in the caruncles, Ferr. m.
- of the orbital margins, Plat. .
Sparkling (Funkeln) eyes, BelL Dry.
Stram. (eomp. shining.)
.........,._______________ - -
8parb before the ey811, eee bright-ap-
. pearanees. .
8ptima of the eyes, Aeon. &U. Canth.
(oomp. eonvuleions.)
- ofthe lids, Calc. •· Cham. Oroc. Hy01c.
Rhod. Rut. SPn. Viol. od.
- - at night, Oroc.
Spannodic pain, Cann.
- on the orbital margin, Plat.
8peclu on the cornea, see "cornea".
Spotl dark, see "dark".
Star• before the·eyes, Cast.
Staring look (stierer Blick), Aeon. Aetla.
, Arn. Ars. Bar. m. Cupr. Hydr. ehL
eorr. Hyose. Ia-n. Laur. Nux v. Op.
Phoe. ae. Seilf. Sec. Stram. (eomp.
"motionless".)
Stijfne11 of the lids, Spig. Tox.
Stinging in the eyes, Ant. 1. Calc. e.
Calc. s. Cham. Cie. Graph. Hydr.
sulph. rub. Lvc. M«o.c. Mgn.s. Nitr.
ac. Ol. Petr. J:lheU."J:lhos. Pot.c. Pull.
Sau. Sep. Sod.e. Sod.chl. Spong.
Staph. Swph. Tar. Thuy. VioL tric.
Zinc.
- in the lids, Cye. Lye. Preon. Stann.
Sulph.
- in the canthi, Ant. tart. Clem. Con.
Ferr. m. Phoe.
- on the orbital margin, Rhod. .
- outwards, Droe. Mur.ac. SiJ. &d. c.
- inwards, Coloe.
Strabilmw, Alum. BeU. Hyotc.
Sty, see "hordeolum".
Suggilation, Cham. Nuxv.
- in the lids, Am.
Sunken eyes, Anae. Ar8. Cie. Cinch.
Coloe. Cupr. Cye. Dros. Ferr. Jod.
Mar. Nitr. ae. Op. PhOI. Phos: ac.
Pot. e. Sec. Spong. Stann. StapA..
Suiph.
Suppuration of the eyes, Dry.
- in the canthi, Nuxv. Zinc.
SweUing of the eyes, Aeon. Bar. e. Bry.
Mgn. e. Plumb. ·Pot. c. Stram.
To:x:.
- in the morning, Bar. e.
-· in the evening, Sep.
- of the lids, Aeon. Arg. Am. BelL Berb.
Bry. Coleh. Cye. Ferr. Graph, Hydr.
Jod. Mang. Mur. ac. Nux v. Pot. e.
Pnls. Sen. Sep. Seill. Sod. e. Sulph.
Thug. Tox. Val.
- - hard, Aeon. Thug.
- of the conjunctiva, BeD.
- of the lachrymal caruncle, Sil.
- of the canthus, Sass.
&DeUing, sensation of, in the eyes, Oroc.
Guaj. Par. (comp. enlargement.)
- as after weeping, Croe. '
Swimming eyes, Anl tart. Bry. Mar. 8ep.
(eemp. "watery appearance".)
Digitized by Coogle
9. Eyes and sight. 493
8gpfl_iJilie afteetion of the eyes, H,M.
Nitr.ac.
'n!ar1, acrid, BelL Coloc. Led. &d. chl.
s~. /
- biting, Dig. Euph. Euphr. Jamb. Led.
Sabin. Spig.
- burning, Arn. Bell. Jamb.
- greasy, Sulph.
Tenrion in the eyes, Aur. Plat. Sabin.
Stram.
- round the eyes, Myr.
- in the lids, Aeon. Myr. Oleand. Stram.
Stram. Sulph. a. Tong.
- in the sockets, Plat.
Throbbing in the eyes, Rhm.
Tickling about the eyes, Amb.
Tingling in the eyes, Spig.
- round the eyes, Arn.
- in the brows, Croc.
- in the canthi, Plat.
- in the lids, Cinch. Sen.
TOrpor ofthe eyes, see "motionlessness".
- of the lids, Spig. Tox.
Tremor of the eyes, Op. Sulph.
- of the lids, Carb. v. Jod. Op. Plat.
Tremulom look, Con. Plat.
Turning before the eyes, SciU. •
Twinkling with the eyes, Croc. Euphr.
Ferr.m.
Twitching 'of the eyes, Aman. Cham.
Kram. Nice. Petr. Stann. Tox.
- of the brows, Artem. 01. Rut.
- of the lids, Asar. Camph. Caust.
Cham. Dulc. Ind. Jod. !pee. Kram.
Lye. Men. Ol. Par. Petr. Rhm. Rhod.
Sabin. Sen. Sep. Stront. Sulpll. Tox.
- - in cold air, Dulc.
- - in sleep, Rhm'.
Ulceration of the eyes, Camt. Nitr. ac.
(comp. suppuration.)
- of the canthi, Pot. c. Zinc.
Ulcer• on the cornea, see "Cornea".
Ulcerosity of the lids, Sod. chl Spig.
Stram.
- of the margins of the lids, Clem.
Colch. Eupllr. Hydr. Sulpll.
UlcerOU& pain, above the eyes, Calc. &.
Unanimated eyes, Aeth. Pot. c. (cooip•.
dimness, lustrelessness.)
Umteady look, AI. Bell.
Vanishing of sight (Augenvergehen),
Cic. Dros. Hydr. Nice. Puis. Sod.chl
Spig. Tab. Verat.
- when exerting, Nice.
- when looking at any thing white,
Tab.
- when reading, Dros. Sod. chi.
- in walking, Cic.
- in writing, Sod. chi.
Veil, gray, before the eyes, Berb. Pho1.
Sil.
Veit~~, distention of, Amb.
Veim, redness of, Aeon. Phos. ae.
- turgescence, BelL Spig.
Vuicle1 on the cornea, see "cornea".
ViiCOU& matter on the canthi, Aman.
Sod.chl
Wart1 in the brows, Caust.
As from water in the e'/es, sene., Staph.
Watery appearance o the eyes, MaD.
Verat. (comp. swimming.)
Weakneu ofsight, Aman. Anac. Artem.
Aur. Bell. Cann. Carb.a. Cast. Dig:
Jod. Lam. Neec. Phos. Sabad. Sec. .
Staph.
- in the morning, Phos.
- in the evening, Cast. Nice.
- chronic, Artem.
W eakne11 of the lids, Grat.
As after weeping, pain, Croc. Mar. Tab.
Wkeell, circles, rings, colored before the
eyes, Pot. nitr. Stront.
-fiery, Pul&
Whirling sen& in the eyes, Bov.
White spots before the eyes, Kram.
Wild look, Ate. Bell. Cupr. Op. Sec.
To wipe the eyes, incl., Croc. Plumb.
Pull.
Yellowne11 of the albuginea, Are. Bell
Canth. Con. Jod. Mgn. m. Plumb.
Sep. Verat.
conditiom.
In the morning, pain, Aeon. Amm. m.
Berb. Mgn.& Nuxv. Par. PhelL Pot.
nitr. Sep. Sil. Sod. s. Sulph. ac.
In the afternoon, pain, Jamti.
In the evening, p., Agn. Alum. Amm. m.
Bry. Calc. & Cast. Con. Croc. Jod.
Kram. Led. Lye. Mgn. & Nice. 01.
Phell. Phos.ac. Sas& Sen. Sep. Sod. s.
Tong. Zinc.
- - increased, Berb. Cinch.
- - in twilight, pain relieved by light,
. Amm.m. .
At mght, Nux v.
From candle-light, pain, Calc. c. Croc.
Cor. Lye. Mgn. s. Mang. 01. Phos.ac.
Pot. c. Sep. Sod. s. (comp. dazzled
eyes.) .
From .a cold, aft'eetion ofthe eyes, Aeon. ·
Bell. Calc.c. Cham. Jod. Nuxv. Puis.
Sulph.
From day-light, pain, Rhod. Sass. Thuy.
(comp. dazzle«~ eyes.)
From dwt, aft'eetion, Sulph.
While exerting the eyes, pain, Artem.
Bar. c. Carb. v. Hydr. Mang. Plat.
Rhm. Rhod. Rut. Staph. Sulph. ac.
(comp. "reading, writing".)
After - -, Rut.
When looking at any thing bright, pain,
Mgn.m. Nuxv.
- at a distance, Cast.
42
Digitized by Coogle
494. 9. Eyes and sight.- j0. Ears and hearing.
When loolmtg sidewarda, Mgn. a.
- upwards, Carb. v. Sailed.
From naechaniclrl caueee, Am.
When I'IIOVing the eyes (or tumin~),
pain, Berb. Bry. Calc. 1. Cinch. Con.
. Cupr. Ran.ec. 8pig. Tox.
- the lids, Calc. s. Mang.
When opeaing the eyes, pain, Canth.
Nuxv.
In the opea air, p., Berb.Hydr. Sulph. ae.
WbeD reading, p., Artem. Aear. Calc.c.
Con. Cree. Dule. Oleand. Pot.e. Sen.
Sod. e. Sod. s. Sulph.ae.
Whe':l r«Mling, P·• in the day, Calc. e.
- wtth candle-light, Ago. Calc. c. Pot. c.
Rut. Sass. Sen. Sod. a. Tong.
From •and and dust, pain, 8ulph. (Aeon.
Calc. c.)
From 1harp air, pain, Tbuy.
When •hutting the eyes, p., Clem. Croe.
When 1tooping, pain, Dros. Sen. ·
When touching the eyes, pain, Aman.
Ant. tart. Calc.1.
- iner., Aur. Caust. Cupr. Dig. Nux v.
From tiline drinking, pain, Zinc.
When tDt'iting, pain, Sen. Sod. e. Staph.
to. Ears and. hea1ing.
Kind of•Jfedion.
.Vglutiutim. of the auricula to the
head, Oleand.
Like air passing into the ears, eens.,
Graph. ·
Blood, congestion to the eara, Lye. Puis.
&Iph.
- ftlcbarged from the ears, see "otor--
rhrea".
Boil bellre and behind the ears, Bry.
&wing sens. in the ears, Amm. m. Bell.
Euphr. Hell. OL Phell. Plumb. Ran. ec.
Rhoo.Sil.
- about the ears, Rhod.
- behind the ears, O.ilc.
Bruiring pain, Arn. Cie. Rut.
Burning eena. on the ears, Aman. Caust..
Clem. Ign. Spig. Tab.
- on the laps, .Pot. nitr. Sabad.
- inside, Canth.
- outwards, Sulph.
lft&ning, see "hearing, iDusions of".
Ccriu of the mastoid proeellll, Aur.
Nitr. ae. Sil.
Cerumen, see "earwa:x":
In children, affection of the ears, Zinc.
Q,ldne11, sens. of, on the ears, Plat.
- with sens. of heat alternating, Verat.
Comprening p!lin, Tbuy.
Cmtltringing, Bry. Dig. Base: Spong.
Cophom, see "D,rseeoia".
&ackling, see "Hearing, iDusions of".
Cutting pain in the ears, Arg.
/Je4fne11, see "Hearing, defects of".
Dr4flling sens. on the ears, Oleand.
·Ran.se.
- inside, Cye. Mez. Phos.ae. Sil. Stann.
•
<julph. val.
- - when swallowing, Ferr. magn.
- outwards, Con.
~~~in the ears, Graph. Nitr. ae.
Petr.
- eena. of, Petr. Phos.
Dy•ecoia, see "hearing, defects or'.
TJ:or~D~U:, accumulated, Con. BeL SiL
E-, hard, Sel.
-moist, SiL
-red, Con.
- like rotten paper, Con.
- slimy, Con.
...... wanting, Carb. v.
- white, like pap, Con. Laeh. &p.
Eruption on the ears, Amm. m. Bar. c.
Bov. Cale. e. Oic. Cinch. Mur. ae.
Petr. P1or. Puis. Sep.
- before the ears, Berb. Oic.
- behind the ears, Bar. c. Calc. e. Calc.•·
Oic. Graph. Mez. Sil.
-on the laps, Mar. 8888.
- bitin$', Puis.
- bummg, Puis. Sa88.
- be~tie, see tbe article Herpes.
- iteh1ng, Mez. Sass.
- moistening, Bov. Calc.e. Mez.
.:.... purulent, Cyc. Sep.
-sealy, Mnr.
- scurfy (tinea), Bov. Calc. c. Grap~.
Mur.ae. P~or. Puis. Base. Sil.
Ezcre~eence1, fungus, Hgdr.
E~tom, Puis.
Faile hearing, (misunderstanding), BoY.
Phos.
Formication, on the ears, Coleh. Plat.
- inside, Amb. Samb.
Offreezing, disord., Aman. Coleb.
Fretting sens. on the ears, Arg. Plat.
FUruncle on the tragus, Sil.
Glandular affection of the ears:
-boring, Sabad.
-hardness, Amm.c. Con. Sil.
- inflammation, Bell. Calc. c. Cham.
Hydr. Pot. c. Toz.
- pressing, Hydr.
- rending, Bell.
- stinging, Bell. Hydr. lgn.
- swelling,Amm. c. Bar. e. BeU. Calc.c.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Clumt. Coee. Con.
Dig. Hydr. lgn. Nitr. ac. Pot. c. Sil.
Tciz.
Digitized by Coogle
10. Ears and hearing.
GltJRtlulcr aft'ec&ion of the ears:
- ewelliug after measles or IIC&l'latioa,
Joel. Magn. c.
Grubbing in the ears, Ant. L Hell.
Hearing acute, Mur. ac.
- in the evening in bed, Poe.c.
lfetlri"'f, defect. of, in general:
- deafne&il, Ant. s. Mgn. m. Mur. ac.
Nice. Plumb. Pot. nitr. Sec. Sod.c.
- diminished hearing, Amb• .AnK. Bov.
Con. Cor. Cyc. Lam. Par. Plumb.
Pot. c.
- dysecoia (difficult heariug), Aeth.
Amm. c. Amm. m. Antle. Am. ArL
.A.ar. AIIIIIL Aur. Bar. c. BeU. Bf1·
Ctllc. c. Calc. L Cinch. Cocc. GrapA.
Hydr. Hyosc. Jod. Led. Lye. Mgn. c.
Mgn. m. Mang. Mur. ac. Nitr. ac.
Petr. PM.. Plt.o1. ac. Pot. c. Pul&
Rhm. Sabad. Sabin. Sec. Sep. Sil.
Sod. chl. Spig. Spong. Staph. &ram.
S..U,A. 8ulph. ac. Tar. Yerat. Verb.
- like a leaf or membrane before it,
eens., Au«. Ant. L Cann. Mgn. m.
Sabad. Sufpb. ac.
- obstructionoftheears,Carb.v. Mcmg.
Men. Nitr.ac. Sil. Spig. SulpA.
- - 8eDL of, Aeth. Ang. Arg. Ars.
' .A.ar. Bry. Colch. Cyc. Hydr.
Led. Maoa". Pul& Sep. Sod. c.
Verat. Verb.
- - occasional, Calad. NitJ'. ac. Sulph.
Verb.
- in the eYening, Nice. Tar.
- at\er a cold, Hydr.
- - at the head, BelL Led. Pols.
- after eut~ng the hair, BeU. Led.
Pula.
- at a distance, Phoe. ae.
- from elongation of the tonllilll, Aur.
Hydr. Nitr. ac. Staph.
- w1th t.he fufl-moon increased, Sil.
- to human voice, PM.. Sil.
- afterintermiUentssuppre&iled, Calc.c.
- after meules suppre88ed, Pul&
- Biter mecbaniealmjuries, Am.
- after mercury miBueed, AIIIIIL Nitr.ac.
&apA.
- after nitric acid, Petr.
- from J.llll"dylliaofthe auditory neryee,
Pot.mtr.
- periodical, See. Bpig.
- :when reading aloud, Verb.
- m a room, Mgn.c.
- from stooping, increued, Croc.
- BUdden, Nice. Plumb. Sec. Sep.
- with the weather beUer or wane,
Mtmg.
- betOre wind and raiD. Mrr.
He.ring, defect. of, alternating wi&h:
- obscuration ofBight, Cic.
He.ring, defect. af, alternating with:
- otorrhma, Phoe.
Hearing, defects qf, relieved or disap-
pearing:
- while blowing the nose, Hydr. Mang.
Sil.
- with a crack, Sil.
- after earwax iB removed, Con.
- ,when riding i~ a vehicle, Graph.
- when swallowmg, Hydr.
Hearing, illusions of:
- 811 if air were pallling into the ear,
Graph.
- bell's sound, Val.
- buzzing ( Sausen), Aman. Amb.
Amm. c. Amm. m. Ant. tart. Are.
Aur. Bar. c. Calc.c. Calc.1. Ctwll. a,
Carb. v. Cast. Cinch. Cocc. Croc.
Mgn. c. Mang. Mur. ac. Nice. Petr.
Phoe. Pot. c. PulL Sec.~. Sod.chi.
Stront. Sifl:.ilSulph. ac. 'l'her. Zinc.
- clashing ( en), Mang. Sabad. Sil.
- clucking (Gluckem), Sil.
-crackling (Knacken, Knicken, Kni-
stem, K.rachen), Alum. Bar.c.Calc.c.
Nitr.ac. .
- crying, Pho8.ac. Stann.
- fiutterinJ, Man;c. 8il.
- hamme~ (llimmern), fllpig.
- hi8Bing (Ziecben), Graph. Mar. Sil.
-humming (Brummen, 81llmen~
Aeon. AI. Alum. Amm.c•.Anac. Brt,.
Calc. e. Case. Caut. Con. Grapli.
Hyosc. Jod. Nice. OL PulL 8ab8d.
Sod. chi. Spig. Sulph.
- mueic, Calc.c.
- ringing, Amb. Calc. c. Cast. Clem.
Hydr. Led. Mgn. L Pot. nitr. 8us.
Sil. Sod. chl Sod. s. Sulph.ac.
- I'Oftl'ing (Br&WIE!Il, Wuwwem), Agn.
Anac. Ant. a. Arn. Bell. Berb. Cann.
Caust•. Con. Evon. Ferr. Hydr. Led.
Lye. Mgn. c. Nitr. ac. 01. Op. Petr.
Plat. Rhm. Rhod. Sep. Sod. bor.
Sulpl. Verat.
- rolling(R~llen, Kollern), Graph. Plat.
- rustling_(Raueehen, Ruschefu), Bell.
Cauet. Hydr. Mang. Phoe. Pul& Sil.
Sod. bor. Ther. Violod.
- singing, Graph. Oleand. 01. PetJ'OII.
Pot.c. (comp. tinkling.)
- sounds mixeil together, Carb. a.
- squashing(Quatschen),Calc.c.Mang;
- thundering, Calc. c. Cauet. Chel. ·
GraP.h.
- tinkling (Klingen), ~ AI. AIDIII.C.
Amm. m. Bar. c. Bell. Carb. v. Cham.
Cinch. Con. Ferr. JD8glL Graph. Lye~.
Mgn.c. Men. Mur.ao. Nuxv.Oiellllcl.
01. Op. Par. Petr. Pet. c. PoL aitr.
PulL S8lls. Sod. chi. &ann. Stapb.
Sulph. Terab. Val. Viol. od.
D,9,;ized by Go'igle
496 10. Ears and hearing.
Hearing, illusion~ of:
- voices, Cham.
- whimpering, Ant. s.
- whistling, Mur. ac.
- in the evening, buzzing, Sulph. ac.
- - tingling, Croc.
- at night, buzzing, roaring, Amm. c.
Graph.
- - singing, tingling, Kram.
- - voices, Cham.
- when blowing the nose, crying,
Phos. ac. Stann. .
- when gaping, squashing, 1\lang.
- when masticating, crackling, Alum.
Calc. Nitr. ac.
- from noise, increased, OL
- when rising from sitting, buzzing,
Verat.
'- in a roo•, roaring, Mgn. e.
._ whe{l sneezing, crackling, Bar. c.
- when stooping, roaring, Croc.
- when swallowing, crackling, Alum.
Bar. c.
- - roaring, Rhod.
- - squashing, Calc. c.
- when talking, hissing, Mar.
- when walking, crackling, Bar.c.
Rearin~, illusion~ of, relieved by:
- learung on the head, buzzing, Perr.
- stirring in the ear, Cast.
Hearing, BenlitiveneBB of, Ars. Bry. Ca-
lad. Cotf. Con. Jod. Lye. Mgn. c.
Mur. ac. Phos. ac. Plumb. Sen. Sep.
Stl. Sod.c. Ther. Verat. Viol.od.
- too great, Cotf. Lye. Phos. Sep. Sil.
Sulph. Ther.
- to music, Cotr. Lye. Phos. ac. Sep.
, Viol.od.
- to noise, Aeon. Ars. Bry. Cinch. Jod.
Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mur. ac. Phos.
ac. Plumb. Sil. Sod. c. Zinc.
- to organs, Lye. ·
- to sounds, Lye. Ther. .
- to talking of others, Ars. Phos. ac.
Verat.
- to violin playing, Viol. od.
- when falling asleep, Calad.
Heat of the ears, AI. Alum. Ang. Ant.
Asar. Calc. s. Camph. Carb. v. Case.
Cinch. lgn. Puis. Sabin. Sod. chi.
Tab.
- of the Jape, Camph. Cinch.
- inside, Calc. c. Canth. Case. Puis.
- onesided, Alum. Carb. v. Ign.
- in the evening, Alum. Carb. v.
- with coldness alternat., Berb. Verat.
Herpu bef01'8 the ears, OleaDd.
- behind, Graph.
- on the laps, Cauat. Mar. Sep.
Humming, see "Hearing, illusions".
Jerking pain, Amm. m. Ang. Petr. Puis.
Bhod. Spig. Val. .
- on the ears, Artem.
- before the ears, Ang.
- on the laps, Pot. nitr.
Inflammation, of the ears, Bell. Bry.
Calc. c. Canth. Hydr. Mgn. c. Pot.. c .
Puls. Sod. bor.
- of the edges, Sil.
- of the laps, Pot. nitr.
- inside, Aeon. Bell. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Canth. Hydr. Puls. Sod. bor.
Itching on the ears, Aman. Amm.c. Arg.
Bar. c. Calc. s. Sil. Spig.
- behind the ears, Nitr. ac. Ther.
- of the laps, Sabad.
- inside, Anac. Caps. Ferr. magn. Kram.
Puls. Rhm. Rut. Samb. Sep.
Moistness, behind the ears, Graph. Nitr.
ac. OJ. Petr. Pot. c. Psor.
- on the edges, Sil.
Numbness, sens. of, Plat.
Obstruction of the ears, see "Hearing.
defects of".
Otalgia, spasmodic (Zwang), Anac. Ang.
Asar. Bell. Bry. Cann. Caust. Cham.
Colch. Croc. Dulc. Euph. Guaj. Hydr.
Lye. Mang. Mez. Mur. ac. Myr.
Nux v. Par. Petr. Phos. Plat. Puls.
Ran. sc. Rhm. Rhod. Sab. Sep. Sil.
Sod. nitr. Spig. Spong. Stann. Thuy.
Val. Zinc.
From other parts to the ear ex.tending
pains, Mang.
Otorrhrea, Garb. a. Carb. v. Sil. Sod. chi.
Sulph. (comp. Running.)
- bloody, Bry. Cic. Graph. Hydr. Petr.
Tox.
- offensive, Aur. Bov. Calc. s. Carb. v.
Caust. Hydr. Zinc. ·
-purulent, Alum. Assa. Aur. Bell.
. Bov. Calc. c. Calc. s. Canst. Graph.
Hydr. Petr. Pot. c. Puls. Sep. Sotl.
bor. Sulph. Tox. Zinc.
- - after mercury misused, Assa.
- yellow, alternating with dysecoia,
Phos.
Over-sensitiveness, see "Hearing, sensi-
tiveness, too great".
Parotitis, Bell. Calc. c. Cham. Hydr.
Pot.c. Tox. (comp. under "Glandu-
lar affectation", "inflammation" and
"swelling". .
Periosteum, behind the ear swolleB,
Carb.a.
Piercing, see "Stinging".
Pinching behind the ear, Preon. Sabin.
- inside, Ferr. magn.
Like a plug, sensation in the ear, Anao.
Spig.
Polypus, Calc. c.
Digitized by Coogle
10. Ears and hearing.
Pres&ing in the ear, Anac. Asar. Assa.
Camph. Caps. Cupr. Oleand. Rhm.
Rut. Sabad. Sass. Sen. Spig. Spong.
Verat.
- behind the ears, Thuy.
Pressing forward, in the ears, Cann.
Caust. Puls. Sod. s. Spong.
Pulsation, Calc. c. .M'gn. m. Spig. (comp.
throbbing.)
- behind the ears, Onisc.
Pus discharged from the ears, see "0tor-
rhcea".
Rawness, see soreness. ,
Redness ofthe ears, Amau. Ant.s. Calc. s.
Camph. Cinch. Ign. Mgn. c. Puis.
Tab.
- in the evening, Alum. Carb. v.
- behind the ears, Oleand. Petr. Tab.
- of the laps, Camph. Cinch:
- onesided, Alum. CariJ. v. Ign.
Rending, in the ears, A.eth. Aman. Amb.
Anac. Ang. Arn. Berb. Caps. Cast.
Cham. Colch. Cupr. Grat. Guaj. Hyd1·.
Ind. Mar. Mez. Mur. ac. Nuxv. 01.
Par. Phell. Plws. Plumb. Pot. jod.
Puls. Rhod. Scill. Spig. Stann. Strout.
Suiph. Sulph. ac. Thuy. Verb. Zinc.
- about the ears, Con. Rhod.
- behind the ears, Ind. Pot. nitr.
- before the ears, Ang.
- on the ears, Cinch.
Retraction, sens. of, Verb.
Reverberation of every sound, Caust.
Hydr. Nux v. Phos. Phos. ac.
- of words, Phos. Phos. ac.
Ringing, see "Hearing, illus. of''.
Roaring, see ibid. ,
Rough epidermis before the ears, Oleand.
Like a rough body in the eustachian
tube, sens., Myr.
Running ears, A.mm. m. Anac. Lye.
Nitr. ac. Pot. c. Sod. chi. (comp. "0tor-
rhcea".)
Scratching sens. in the ears, Rut.
Screwing pain in the ears, Bell.
Sensitiveness of the ears, Pot. jod.
- of hearing, see "hearing".
Singing in the ears, see "Hearing, illu-
sions.of''.
Soreness behind the ears, Graph. Nitr. ac.
Petr. Pot. c.
- pain of, Cic.
- - inside, Caust. Sep. Sod. bor.
.Spasmodic pain on the ears, Artem.
Oleand. Ran. b. Spig. Thuy.
- inside, Ang. Croc. Ferr. magn. Mur.
ac. Petr. Phos. ac. Plat. Ran. b. Samb.
Thuy. Val.
·Stench of the ears, Graph.
- behind the ears, Oleand.
Stinging in the ears, Aeth. Alum. Anac.
Ant.s. Arg. Arn. Bell. Bry. Calc. c.
Camph. Caui!Jt. Cham. Chel. Cinch.
Cole&. Con. Graph. Grat. Hen. lb;dr.
Kram. Mgn.s. Mar. Myr. Nice. Ritr.
ac. Nux 11. 01. Phos. Pho•. ac. Plumb.
Pot. jod. Pot.nitr. Pul8. Ran. b. Rut.
Samb. Saes. Sep. Sod. c. Sod. ebl
Sod. s. Staph. Sulph. Tab.Tar. TAug.
Verat. Verb. Viol.od. Zinc.
Stinging on the ears, Caust. Ferr. magn.
Ran.sc.
- behind the ears, Arn. Bell. Pot. nitr.
Sulph. Tab.
- about the ears, Con.
- on the laps, Sabad.
- inwards, Sod.s.
- outwards, Amm. ac. Berb. Con. Pot.c.
Sit. Sod.s.
Strokes (Sehlage) in the ears, Arn.
Sod. chi.
Swelling of the ears, Alum. Anac. Ant. s.
Calc. c. Caust. Pot.c. Puis. Sep. Sil.
Sod. chi. Tox. Zinc.
- before the ears, Bry.
-behind, Berb. Bry. Caps. Carb. a.
Tab.
- of the laps, Pot. nitr.
Tearing, see "Rending".
Tension on the ears, Amb,
- inside, Asar. Aur. Dig.
- behind, Nitr. ac.
Tetter, see ..herpes".
Throbbing in the ears, AI. Bar.c. Berb.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Cann. Graph. Mez.
Mur. ac. Nitr. ac. Phos. RAm. Sil.
Sod.chi. Thuy. Tox.
- in the laps, Ferr. magn.
Tickling on the ears, Sabad.
- inside, Amb.
Tingling, see "Formication".
Tinkling, ~e •·Hearing, illus. of".
Tympanum, as if relaxed, Rbm.
Ulcer in the ear, Bov. Camph. Pot. c.
Ulceroumes• of the ears, Amm.c. Hydr.
Lye. Spon~. Stann. · ·
Ulcerous pain m the ears, Mgn. c.
Undulating sens. in the ears, Sulph.
Whimpering tune in the ear, Ant. s.
Wind passing out from the ears, Bell.
Chel. Stram.
- as if passing into, or blowing •.t,
Caust.Mang. Men. Plat. Staph.
Like a worm in the ear, sens., Rhod.
condition.
In the morning, in bed, Nuxv.
In the evening ear-ache, Carb. "·Ran. b.
Tbuy• .
- in bed, Thuy.
At night, Bar.c. Dulc. Pot. nitr. Tox.
-:- when lying upon the ear, Bar. p.
·Pot. nitr. f ·
Day and night, ear-ache, Hel. ·
................--
498 10. Ears and bearing.- u. Nose and smelling.
When bloiDing the 110118, Calc. B.
From coltl air, Aman.
From a cold, Dulc. HI:i.
- at the head, &U. Puis.
While eati!_lg! ear-ache Verb.
With thejUU mocm, incr., Sil.
From lavglring, ear-ache, Mang.
When leaning on thehead,ear-ache,Arn.
When tnGBticating, ear-ache, Sen.
From mea1les suppreued, otorrhrea,
Puis.
From mechanical injuries, Am.
From mercury misused, Aaea. Nitr. ac.
Staph.
From music, PhoB. ac. Tab.
In the ~ air, ear-ache, Bry. Con.
Euph. Lye. Tab.
When ~ng, ear-ache, 1\f.ang.
When~. ev-.ehe, BoT. Fen.
magn. MaJlg.
After vezation ear-ache, Sulph.
When walking, e&Niche, Mang.
- in the open air, Bry. Con.
After a U1alk in the open air, Bry.
With the weather better or worse, Mlmg.
Before wintl and rain, Myr.
connezion.
With Aecrd·acie, ear-ache, Hydr. Phoe.
Ran.sc.
With rnichlrition, copioWI, ear-ache,
\._. Thuy. .
with nauset~, ear-ache, Dulc.
With prosopalgia, ear-ache, Ph011. -e.
With tooti-acle, ear-aohe, Ph~ ae.
Ran.sc.
11. Nose and smelling.
,Anosmia, Anac. Calc. s. Hyosc. lpec?.
Mg~. m. Phell. Phos. flumb. Rhod.
Sep. Sil. Sod. cAl. Zinc.
As ifbeaten, pain, Bell. Calc. s.
Biting in the nose, An~. Aur. Bry. Eupll.
Rim. sc. Sab&d. Sp1g.
Blac.:J:res on the nose, Graph. Sabin.
d.:pA. h E . . "
Blee tng at t e nose, see " p1Sta.1:JS •
Blood, congest. of, to the nose, Amm. e.
Cupr. Samb.
- when stooping, Amm. c.
Blood, disclulrged from the nose, see
"Epistaxis".
Blood, discharged from the nose:
- acrid, Pot. nitr.
-black, Oroc. Nitr;ae.
- bright, Dulc.
- viscid, Croc.
- warm, Dulc.
Blood, discharged by blowing the nose,
Aman. Caust. Graph. Lye. Par. Phos.
PulL Sep. Stront. Sulph. Tbuy. .
- in the morning, Caust.
- in the evening and at night, Graph.
Bloody crusts in the nose, Amb. Amm. m.
Stront.
Bones, pain in, Aur. Carb. a. Colch.
Hydr. Ind. SiL Sod. chi. Thuy.
Verat.
Borin~ pain, Sod.chi. Spig. SulJ>b.
Bruiftng pain, Am. Cic. VioL oil.
Burning sens. on the nose, BelL Pot. o.
- ioaide, Ars. Canth. Led. Nice. Nitr. ac.
Stann. Sulph. Tab.
- in the nostrils, Bov. Kram. PhelL
Pot.jod.
- in the point, Carb. a.
A burning spot on the nose, Jod.
Cflfteer of the noee, An. Aur• .Calc. c.
Carb. a. Sep. Sulph. (comp, s~g
and liiOBbs of the point.)
Caries, Aur.
Coldnus of the nose, Arn. BelL Ign.
Plumb. Verat. .
Compressing pain, Aeon. Verat.
Congestion of the blood, see "blood".
Contracting pain, Sabad.
Convulsive motion of the nasal muscle~t.
Lye.
Coppery redness of the nose, Cann.
Cracks in the nostrils, Ant. Graph.
- in the point, Carb. a.
Cramping pain in the wings, Plat. Zioe.
- in the root, Arn. Hyosc. Zinc.
Ou.tting pain in the nalal bones, Ind.
DeadneBB of the skin, Sod.chi.
Desquamation, Ars. .Aur. Carb.a. Sod. c.
- furflll'liCeous, Ars. Aur.
DratDi.ntf pain, R.hm. Thuy.
Epista:ns, Aeon. At. Aman. Amb. Amm. c.
Anac. Arg. Am. Artem. Bar.c. Bel{.
Berb. 8iy. Calc. c. Calc. s. Ca,_,..
' Caps. Carb. v. Caust. CincA. Cor.
Oroc. Dr011. Dulc. Ferr. Hy_dr. Hyosc.
Jod. lpec. Kram. Led. Lye. MiU.
Mosch. Nitr. ac. Nuz v. Petr. Ph011.
Ph011. ac. Pot. jod. Pot. nitr. Pub.
Rhod. Sabad. Sass. Sec. Sep. 8il.
Spong. Sulph. Tereb. Thuy. To.J;.
Vera£ .
-in the morning, Amb. Amm.c. Bry.
. 'Calc.s. Caps. Carb.v. Mgn.c. Nitr. ac.
Nuzv. Po~e.
- - in bed, Caps.
- in the evening, Graph. Ph011. Sulph.
- at night, Carb.v. Cor. Graph. Mgn...,
7bz. Verat. (oomp. in ''sleep".)
- .t\er blowing the nose, Arg. s.r.e.
SpollJ.
o;g,t,zed by Coogle
u. N()se and smelling. 499
EpVtiJN, (NMD ~ $0 &he~
Alum, Graph,
- with the cough, Hydr.
&..-.f!Mt Alum.e. 8aJPit. 8iL S&aoa. ,
- when stooping, Amm. e. SiL
- sen& ot; in the bonee, Colch.
-from a dry, hot noee, Cann.
- after giddmeee, Cart». &
- when hawking, Tox.
- after headache, Alum. Carb. e. Dole.
-after meals, Amm.c. (eomp. See.l7.)
- after ainging, Clllc. s.
- in sleep,llydr. -
- while ltool is diacbaraecl, Phos.
- when stoop!ng, Sil. 'l'o:c.
· - when waahing, Amm. e,
- after weeping, Nitr. ae.
- wit.h ~meno1Th0!8, 81-y. ·
- with heat of the countenance, Graph.
- with heavineas of the head, Coft:
- with paleneM of the countenance,
Carb.v.
- with eyncope, Croe.
- with vanishing ofsight, Ind.
Eruption on the nose, Amm. e. Ant. L
Aur. Clem. Euphr. Mgn. e. Nice.
Nitr. ae. Petr. Plumb. Pot. e. Sod. e.
(eomp. "herpes" •nd "IICilbe".)
- io.side, Mgn. c. Phell.
- on the corners, Plumb.
- on t.he point, CqUJt. Carb. v. Clelp.
Nitr. ac. Sep. SiL Spong.
- on the septum, 01. P110r.
- below the noee, Ceps. Sei1l.
Herpe~ic eruption on the wiog~~, Nitr. ac.
SJHg.
ln.flt!mmation ot the llOie, Am. Aur.
BeU. Bry. Cclc. c. Calc. 1. Cuth.
Kram. Ran. b. &,I. Sulp1. T~.
- inside, Aman. Bell. Bry.Can&h. Cocc.
Con. Hydr. NtU: v. PboL Ran. b. SiL
Stann. Sulph. Tox. Verat. '
-after mercury, Con. SiL
- oneaided, Sod. ebl.
- of the point, Pot.nitr. &,. Sulph.
- ofthe septum, P80r.
Itching i>f the noee, Aman. Amm. e.
Oarb. v. CheL Hydr. Ign. Knua.
Nuxv. Oleand. SaJ!Ib. Spig.
- inside, Ammt. OL &btMJ. SeL Sen.
- of the poi.n1., Caust. SiL
- of the wings, Caust. SeL
Noct~rrwl. pain, Bell. Cor.
- with sleeplellllness, Cor.
Nu,.bmu, sen& of, JbN. Plat. &.U.
VioLod.
Udour1, in the n0118,
- aa efter blood, PIIOI'.
- - brimstone, Al'll. Nux v.
- - buntt hom, Sulph.
- - sponge, Anae.
- - caodle-eouffs, Nu,xv.
--cheese, Nuxv.
- • feUd thiop, Plumb. Nitr. ae. Sep.
- bll.rlting, 01. - - when bN&thing tbtoucb the nose,
- confluent, PheU. Nitr. llC.
- herpetic, Nitr. llC. Spig. - • gun-_powder, Calc.c.
- itching, Nitr. ae. PhelJ. SeilL - - herrmgs, Ago.
- moistening, OL SeiU. - • manure, Ari&c. Calc.e. Vera&.
- painful, Caps. Mgn. c. . - • mucus from coryza, Graph. PW..
- - to the touch, Clem. &Uph.
- pimples, Amm.o. Caps. Clem. Euphr. - • musk, Ago.
01. Petr. Plumb. Pot. e. - nauseous, Caoth. Men.
- - tilled with pus, Clem. Euphr. - putrid, A.ur.
Petr. Plumb. - putrid amell of b~ and milk, Par.
- red sealy, Aur. - - rotten eggs, Calc. o. Men.
- scabs, see this article below. - sweetish, Aur.
- aore smarting, Spig. --tallow, VaL
- stinging, SeilL - - tar, Con,
- Y8!1iel.ei!,Mgn.e.Nitr.ao. Pbell.Plunab. - - whiskey, Aur.
Sil. PimpZe., see "eruption".
Ea:o.IOIU, Hydr. Plugs (Pfropfe) of dried mue\18 in the
JiWne11, sens. of, in the nose, Par. noee, 8ep. Sil.
Furunclel on the noee, Alum. SiL Polypu~, Mar.
GnmDing se011. in the noee, Sil. Pressing p. io the nose, Coleb. Qletmd.
Graping nasal pain, Pot. Ditr. - on the root, Ago. HyOBC. Ru&.
Gru!Jbing paiJJ io the noee, Coloo. Pot. Prickling in the point, Berb. Ran. eo,
Ditr. Pulsation in the nose, Cor.
HtemOrrlwge from the noee, BeU. Cinch. Purulent discharge from t.he n., Amm. c.
Con. Kreos. (eomp. See. 14.) Arg. Artem. AN«. Aur. Cie. Om.
Hardneu of the wings, Thuy. Graph. Hydr. Lye. Nuxv. Pho&ae.
1ltffl in &be ooae, CtmR. OMtA. Oiaela. PuiB. To-.
Cor. - acrid, excon.&ing. Lye.
Digitized by Coogle
----
500 U. Nose and smellins.-12. Countenance (face), lips, &c.
Ptlf'Ulent discharge ftom then., bloody,
Arg. ·
- fetid, .Asl!a. Aur. Graph. Hydr. Lye.
Nuxv.ToL
- green, .Asl!a. Aur. Hydr. NULv.ToL
- )'ellow, Aur. Cie.
Qwi11ering on the nose, Chel. Stront.
&d spots on the nose, Jod. Phos. ac. Sil.
Rednea of the nose, Alum. Aur. BeU.
Calc. c. Cann. Cinch. Hydr. Pho1.
Pot.e. Ran.b.
- inside, Bell.
- of the comers, Plumb.
- of the nOII!Itrils, Phell.
- of the point, Carb. a. Nice. Nitr. ac.
SiL ToL
/Unling nasal pain, Ind. Nice. Pot. jod.
8ctlb1, on the nose, Carb. a. Caust.
Phos. ac. 8888. Sod. chi. Spong.
- inside, Graph. Nitr. ac. Ran. b. Sa&
SiL Staph. Thuy.
- on (and in) the noatrils, Ant.s. Aur.
Bov. Calc.e. Cic. Kram. Lye.~.m.
- on the point, Carb.a. Carb. v. N1tr.ae.
Sep. Sil.
Senlelesmels, oneeided, Sod. chi.
&neUing, sensitiveness o~ Aeon. Bar. e.
BeU. Calc. ' · Cham. Colch.· Graph.
Lye. Phos. Sabad. Sulph. Tab.
- to eggs and fat, Colch.
- to garliek, SabaeL
- to wine, Tab.
SmeUing, too acute, Aeon. Aman. Aur.
BeU. Coleh. Con. Lye.
- dull, diminished, Alum. Bell. Calc. c.
Cyc. Mez. Pot. c. Tab.
- wanting, Anac. Calc. s. Hyoee. lpee.
Mgn. m. Phell. Phos. Plumb. Rhod.
Sep. Sil. Sod. chl. Zinc. .
Sorene11 in the nose, Aman. Ang. Bov.
Mez. Nitr.ac. 01. Sod.chi. Zinc.
- of the comers, Ant.s. Phos.
- of the nostrils, Ant.s. Graph.lgn.
&weneBB, sens. of, Calc. s. Cie.
-inside, Coleh. Nuxv.
- of the nostrils, ~ill.
- of the point, To~.
Sptmn in the wings, Amb.
As from a qlinter, nasal pain, Nitr.ac.
Spots on the nbse, red, Jod. Phos.ae. Sil.
- yellow, Sep.
Stench from the nose, Bell. Calc. e.
GraJ?h. Nitr. ac. PhoB. Phos. ae.
- putrid, Bell. Graph.
- urinelike, Graph. '
Stinging, Bell. Nitr.ac. Spig.
~. in the point, Pot. nitr.
To 1tir m the nose, inclination, Artem.
Phos. ac. Sel.
8uffocatif1$ pain, Euph.
Summer-jreckkl, Phos. Sulph.
SweUing of the nose, Alum. Amm. m.
Am. Ara. Anr. BeU. Bov. Bry. Calc.c.
Cann. Canth. Carb. a. Graph. Hydr.
Lye. Phos. Pot.e. Ran. b. Sep. Sulph.
Tox. Zinc.
-inside, Bell. Canth. Coee. Pot. nitr.
Zinc.
- onesided, Coee. Croc. Sod.ehl. Zinc.
- of the point, Nice. Sep. Sulpb.
- of the ridge, Phos. ae.
-ofthe wings, Mgn.m. Phell. Thuy.
Tendeme88 ofthe nose, Aman. Amm. m.
Sil. Sod.ehl.
- inside, Aman. Pot.jod.
- to the pressure, touch, Amm. m. Sil.
Tension on the nose, A.88a. Ran. b.
- inside, Graph.
- in the bones, Tbny.
- on the root, Men.
- in the wings, Tbuy.
Throbbing, in the nose, Coloe. Sil.
Tickling in the nose, Arg. Carb. v. 01.
Spig.
'I'ingling (Kriebeln) on the nose, Am.
- inside, Arg. Berb. Carb. v. Mar. OL
Ran. b. Ran. se. Sabad. Spig. Tab.
- in the point, Moseh. P100n. Rbm.
7remulous sens. in the point, Chel.
Ulceration of the nose, Cham. Staph.
Sulph. (eomp. scabs.)
- inside, Hydr. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. 8il.
Sod.c. ·
- of the nOII!Itrils, Am. Aur. Bry. Calc. c.
Cor. Graph. lgn. Lye. Mur;ae. Petr.
Ph08. Pot. c. Sep. ·
- of the wings, Puis.
Ulcerous pain,·Mgn.s. Puis.
-inside, Amm. m. Nux v. Puis. Sil.
Verat.
fpicks, see "eruption".
Warmth, sene. of, Rhm.
We~rtB, old, on the nose, Caust.
From mercury, nasal affect., Aur. Con.
Sil.
When pressing on the nose, pain re-
lieved, Agn.
When touched, pain, Aur. Bell. Bry.
Calc. s. Hydr. Led. Mgn. m. Mgn.s.
Nitr.ae. Phos. Sil. Sod.chl. Tox.
- increaaed, Coteh. Pot. nitr.
12. Countenance (face), lips and lower maxilla.
AnNUl countenance, Aetb: BeU. Cupr. -ArtAritic pain in the lower maxilla;
ApAthce on the lips, lpec. CGtUt.
Digitized by Coogle
~ ~ ---
12. Countenance, lips and lower maxilla. 501
As ifbeate11, Jlllin in the yoke-bone, Cor. Burning pain in the chiD, Anae.
Sulph.ae. Zinc. - below the eyes, Dros.
Beunldered appearance, Plumb. Stram. -in the lipe, Amm.e. Amm.m. Arn.
Zinc. Aasa. Bry. Carb. a. Hydr. Mgn. a.
Biting in the face, like ealt, Cann. Mez. Mur. ae. Rhod. &bad. Sod. s.
Blackuh countenance, cmclt. Spig. Sulph. Tab. Tart. ae.
- lipe, ArB. OincA. Hydr. Tart. ae. - - upper, Mez.
VerGt. --lower, Clem.
Black ).lOre& in the face, Dig. Nitr. ae. - in the corners ofthe mouth, Mez.
Sabm. Sel. Sulph. Cancer in the fiule, Ar1. -
- on chin and upper-lip, Sulph. - on the lipe, ArB. Clem. Con. Sil.
- ulcerating, Dig. Su.lph.
Bleeding lips, Bry. Carb.a.lgn. Chanf!1ng color of countenance, Bell.
Blolltedneu of the face, Aeon. Amm.e. Bov. Caps. Croc. Mgn. e. Mgn. s.
Arn. Ars. Arteru. Aur. Bell. Bry. Nuxv. Op. Phos. Pole. Pu~
Cham. Cinch. Cocc. Hydr: Hyo1c. - appearance, Scill.
Ipec. Laeh. Laur. Lye. Op. Pho1. Cold11eu of the face, Cie. Hyosc. Verat.
Plumb. Pot. c. Puis. &mb. Sep. Spig. (comp. See.4.)
- about the eyes, Ars. Ferr. Phol. - - ofthe cheeks, Cham.
- after sleep, Spig. - - with cold hands, Cic.
Blood-bluter1 on the upper-lip, Sod.ebl. - sens. of, Plat. Ran.sc.
Blt~M&UB of countenance, Aeon. Aman. - - about chin and mouth, Plat.
~· Ar1. Artem. Con. Cupr. Hyosc. Conge•tion of the blood, to the face,
Ign. Lye. &mb. Verat. Coccin.lnd. Stram.
- ofthe cheeks, Cham. Contraction in the cheek, Tox.
- of the lipe, Caust. Oupr. Dig. Lye. - in the frontal muscles, Rhm.
• Phoe. Omwllionl of the face, Ant. tart. Bell.
-about the mouth, Artem. Cham. Ign. Ipec. Lye. Op. (eomp.
Blu.uh-red countenance, Bell. Bry. Pule. Jerks.)
Blue &{X>tll in the face, Ferr. • - of the mouth, Bell. Ign. Ipec. Lye.
Blue errelee round the eyes, Anae. An. - onesided, Dig.
Biam. Calc. s. Cinch. Coce. Cupr. Coppery eruption on the face, Ar1. Aur.
Graph. Ipec. Laeh. Myr. .Nux v. ·carb.a. Rut. Tox. Verat.
Oleand. Phol. Phos.ae. Pot.e. &bad. -about chin and mouth, Verat.
Sabin. Sec. Sep. Sod.e. Staph. Sulph. Craclu in the skin ofthe face, Sil.
To.x. Veral - in the lips, Aman. Amm.c. Amm.m.
BoU. in the face, Ant. s. Ant. tart. Arn. Ara. Bar.e. Bov. Bry.
- on the forehead, Sep. Calc. c. Cap•. Carb.a. Carb.v. Cham.
- on the lipe and chin, Calc.s. Cinch. Colch. Cor. Oroc. Dros. Graph.
Bonu, in11ainmation, Aur. Staph. Hydr. ~· Mgtl. m. Nice. Nitr. ae.
- pain in general, Aeth. Calc.'· C•P'· OL Par. Phoe. Phos. ae. Plat. Pot.c.
Hell. Zinc. Pot. jod. &bad. Seill. Sel. Sod. chl.
- - when touched, Calc.s. Sulph. Tab. Tar. Verat. Zinc.
- swelling, Aur. SiL - in the comers of the mouth,.Ant.l.
- - on the chin, Aur. Hydr. Mez.
- - on the forehead, Aur. - ulcerating, Hydr. Phos. ac.
- - on the lower jaw, Sii. Crackling in the maxillary joint, whell
- - on the temples, Spig.· masticating, Amm.e. Tox.
Boring pain in the face; Euph. Mgn.c. CrtJtDling, see "Tingling".
Thuy. Creeping, see "Tingling".
- in the cheek-bones, Bov. Ind. Stront. Cnuta lactea, Ara. Bar. c. Bell. Calc. c.
- in the lower jaw, Bov. Ind. &bad. Carb.v. Oic. Dulc. Hydr. Lye. Phos.
Broum becomes the countenance, Jod. Sau. Sod.chi. Sulph. Tox. Viol.tric.
Broum-retl countenance, Bry. Op. Cutting pain in the face, Bell. Staph.
Broum lips, Oleand. Tart. ae. Tox.
Bruiting pain in the face, Rut. Cy1tic tumor on the cheek, Graph.
Burning pain in the face, Ar1. Euph. Dark-red countenance, Bar. c. Cs171f1l.
Stann. Tox. Coloc. Op. Sec. Verat.
-in the cheeks, Aman. Allar. Cauat. -lips, Bar.c. Bell
Clem. 01. Phos. ae. Tox. Deadlikeappearance, Ars. Canth. Plumb.
- in the cheek-bones, CaUl!&. OL Par. Deep-Belltiiieyes, see ''sunken".
Spig. Staph. - J)upGiring "P~ Cantb.
o,gitized by Google
M)2 12. Countenance, lips and lower maxilla.
~·~ion of the epidermia, C.n&b.
- on the lipe, Amm. na. Ant. tart. Cantil.
Cham. Con. Mez. Nuz v. Plnmb.
Pot.e. Puis. Sep. Sod. L Sulph. ac.
Dirty color of the face, Jod. Phoe.
DiMibility of the facial muscles, Sen.
INGbling pain in the filee, Evon. Sabin.
Ditlcoloreil countenance, Mgn.c. &c.
~
ts in the faee, Sec.
· red counten., Aeth. Ar•. Dism.
oleh. Jod. Phos. ae. Spig. Tox.
/Nlocation, ready, ofthe maxillary joint,
Petr. Staph.
- in the moruing in bed, Petr.
- sens. of, Con.
INtortion ,of countenance, Aeon. BelL
Camph. Coee. Cupr. Hydr. cblor. eorr.
Laur. Plat. Seill. See. SoL nig. Stram.
Tox.
- lips and mouth, BelL Lye. Nux v.
Op. See. Stram.
- ontwided, Graph.
Drawing pain in the face, AL Ara.
Cale.L Coleh. M!ll.m•. OL Phoe.ac.
Rtm. .c. 8ep. Verst.
- on the cheek-bones, Ant. tart.Carb. v.
CheL Coleh. Dig.Graph.Stann.Staph.
Val. Viol.od.
- on the chin, Aman. Cauet.
- in thejaws,Aur. Cham. Mez. Phoe.ac.
- on the orbits, Stann.
Dry, parched lipe, AI. Amm. c. Amm.m.
Ant. s. Ant. tart. Am. Bar. e. Bell.
Bry. CincA. Con. Droe. Hydr. Hyoec.
Jgn. Mang. Nuxv. Oleand. Plat. Pot.
jod. Rhod. Sep. Sod.ebL Sod.L Stram.
Sulpb. Tab. Tart. ac. Verat.
- in the evening, Mgn. L
Efwth-oolored countenance, Ato•. Diem.
· Dry. Cinch. Croc. Ferr. Hydr. Lmr.
Lye. Mgn.c. Mgn.e. Nuzw. 01. Op.
Phoe. Sil. Sod. chi. Zinc.
E.flloreacence (Dliithen) in the face, Amb.
Carb.a. Eug. Mur.ac. Nitr.ac. Petr.
Phos. Pbos.ae. Sep. Sod.ebL (eomp.
"eruption".)
- on the chin, Ferr.magn. Hydr. Phos.
ae. Thuy. Tox.
- on the forehead, Amb. Calc. L Clem.
Ferr. magn. Led. Mur. 'ac. Nitr. ae.
Par. Sod. chi.'
-· on the lips, Ferr. magn. Mur.ac. Par.
Petr. PhOs. ae. Rut. Thuy.
- - upper, Ant.s. ~pig.
- on the lower maxilla, Par.
- about the mouth, Phoe. Tox.
- on the corners of the mouth, Petr.
- ou the tem~lee, Arg. Mur. ac. Nitr. ae.
- in the wbilikere, Amb.
Emaciation In the face, Calc.e. Tab.
Eru,non. in the &ce, .Atntn.c. Amm.m.
Ant... B.r.c. Calc.c. Cek.•. Cmut.
Cic. Con. Dule. GrtrpA. Hydr. Ign.
.Lttc. Mgn.m. Mur.IIC. Nitr.ac. Petr.
PLoe. Pot. e. &... Sep. Sod. chi.
StapA. SulpA. Thuy. To.T. (comp.
"effioreecenee, vesicles".)
Eruption, on the cbeeb, Calc. e. Dilr.
- on the chin, l>ij[. GrapA. Hgtlr. Lye.
Sese. ~· Sod'. ebL Sulph. Thuy.
Tox. Zinc.
-on the forehead, Aur. Calc. c. Cic.
Mur. ae. · Nitr. ae. Par. Sus. &p.
Sod. ebL Sulph.
- on the lips, Alnm. Amm. c. Are. Dry.
Calc. c. Cape. Caust. Dig. lpee. Hydr.
Lye. Mur. ac. Nice. Petr. Plat. Rut.
Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod.c. Sod. chi. Spong.
Thuy.
- about the mouth, Calc. e. Gr11ph.
Sod. e. Tox.
- on the comers of the mouth, Bell.
Caust. Lye. Mang. Petr. Sen. Seun.
Tab. Verat.
- about the note, Tox.
- on the templee, Arg. Mur.ac. Nitr.ac.
-in the wbiikere, Calc. e. Nitr.ae.
- biting, Dry. Hydr. PiaL
- blacklah, Spig.
- bleeding, when ecratehed, Hgdr.
- b!lJ'Ilio«, Ant. L Calc. c. Cie. Hydr.
Kram. Sen. Senn. Sod. cbL Staph.
Tox. VioLtrie.
- ·- when scratched, Sue.
- confluent, Oic.
- dry,Psor.
- frettin~, Dig.
- herpetic, &ee "Herpee".
- jerk!ng painful, Tox. .
- atebinK, Amm. c. Coo. Dig. HgJr.
Lye. 'Nitr. ae. Sue. Sod. e. Staph.
Thuy. Zinc.
- milittry, Cham. Verat.
- millet-like, Par.
- moistening, Calc.c. Cie. Graph. Hydr.
Sep. Sod. e. Tox. Viol. tric.
- - fetid, Cie. Hydr.
- - yellow, Tox. Viol.tric.
- at night, paiDful, VioL tric.
- in the OJI8D air, di.sapp., CaJc.L
- painful, Jamb. Sulph.
- - to the touch, Bell. Ctllc. •· Led.
Par. Val. Verst.
- rasping, Dry. SiL Sod.chL
- red, Ant. s. Aur. Cic. Led. Sep.
- like roughDeSIJ of&he akin, sep.
- ecaly, Aur.
- scurfy, Ant. L Calc. c. Cic. G1-Gph.
Hgdr. Mur.ac. Petr. &,. SiL Thuy.
Tox.
- aore 8JD811igg, Rhod. Verat.
- stinging painful, Led. Plat. Staph.
Digitized by Coogle
.
12. Countenance, lips and lower maxilla. 503
Erui"W.. 111lppuratiug, Ant. •· Cic. To.z.
- white, VBI.
- yellow, Ant. e. Cic. Euph. Hylr. Sep.
ErJapew, BeU. CampA. Calc. •· Canih.
Darb. a. Cham. Eupla. Grapb.. Lach.
. Sep. Stram. Svlpla. ac. Toz.
.-:- .on the forehead, Rut.
- ellesided, Sep. Stram.
-&om the root of a decayed tooth ori-
~,Sep.
- after tooth-.che, Cham.
- 'Yesiculoue, Euph. Toz.
Fetlr.fvl appeararce, Stram.
Like fenering, pain in the cheek-bones,
Sod. chi.
Fltlccidity of the facial muscles, Coloct
1'1~ of heat in the fuce, Alum. Amb.'
Coccin. Grapla.Lye. Mar. Phoe. Pot.e.
Thu. ·
- on t6'e cheeks, Coee.
Formication, see "Tingling".
Fretting eens. in the 6we, Agn. Amb.
Rut.
- on chin and lips, Plat.
- on the forehe8d and whiakel'll, Amb.
Furuncle• on the cheek, Alum. Amru. c.
Mez.
- on the chin, Nitr. ac. SiL
- under the chin, Carb. v.
- befOre the ears, Carb. v.
• - on the forehead, Led.
- on the temples, Mur. ac.
As from glair, sens. in the face, Alum.
M,rn. c. Phos. ac. Sulph. ac.
Glanilvlar affect. on the lower maxilla:
- boring, Sabad.
- bruising pain, Ars.
- hardness, Clem. Cocc. Graph. Hydr.
Tox. ·
- inflammation, BeU. Suiph. ac.
- lumps, Clem.
- pain, in general, Arn. Aur. Oalc.c.
Cic. Cinch. Cor. Nitr;'ac. Stann. Staph.
Tox. Verat.
- - with deglutition, Nux v. Stram.
- - when wuched, Clem. Sil
-pressing, Ars. Stram.
- atinging, Hydr. Mez. Nuxv.
-swelling, Amm.m. Am. Ar11. Bar.c.
BeU. Bov. Calc. c. Cic. Cinch. Clem.
Cocc. Cor. Dulc. Graph. Hydr. Jod.
Lye. Nitr. ac. Petr. Phos. Plumb.
Pot. c. Sep. Sil. Sod. chl. Spong.
Stann. Staph. Sulph. Svlph.ac.'l'huy.
Tox. Verat. ·
- tension, Clem. Spong.
- dlrobbing, Amm.m. Bov. Clem.
Gllmnp appearance, Sod•.s. ~inc.
GM.u!ing in the facial bones, Arg. Ind.
Jamb.
- lower maxilla, Ind. · ·
GrtupiAg sen&, between noee and eye,
Mang.
Graygh hue of count., Laur.
Grea.y face, Plumb. SeJ. Sod. chi.
- lips, Amm. m.
Greenuh hue of count., .Ars.
Grullbing pain, Bov. Euph.
- in the cneek-bones, Mgn. c. Thuy.
Hact:,ng doum, lower maXilla, Ars. Lye.
Ha/!~.11 of the cheeke, Cham.
Heat in the face, Aeon. Amm. c. Amm. m.
Anac. Ant. a. Ant. tart. Am. BeU. '
Bry. Bov. Calc.11. Cham. Cinch. Cocc.
Con. Cor. Croc. Ep. Ferr. magn.
Grat. Kram. Mang. Masch. Mur. ae.
Nux v. Op. Preoo. Petr. Phoa. ae.
Plat. Ran. b. Sabad. Scill. Sep. Sil.
Sod. c. Stroot. 8~p1t.. Tab. TAuy.
Verat. (comp. Sec.4.)
- on the cheeks, Ant. ll. Bo-'r. Cinch.
Coccin. Oleand. Tox. Val
- - on that, which is exposed to the
air, Viol tric.
- on the forehead, Cham. Ep. Euphr.
- on the lips, AL Arn.
- burning, Amm. m. Arn. Bea. Bry.
Cape. Croc. Ep. Grat.Ign.Jod. Nuxv.
Preon. Plat. .Sabad. Sod. c. Stront.
Tab. Thuy. Verat.
- in the morning, Croc.
- in the afternoon, Anac.
- in the evening, Ang. Am. Plat. Thuy.
- at night, Calc. s.
- by bending forward, increased, Cor.
- after drinking wine, Sabad.
- from exeroise and talking, Scill.
-after meals, Petr. (comp. Sec.l7.)
- in the open air, Mur. ac. Val
- with drynes11 ofthe mouth, Plat.
- .with nausea, lll!Bitude, Anac.
- with thirst, Petr. Plat.
Heat, sens. of, in the face, Ang. Euphr.
Tar.
- in the evening, Ang.
Heat, flushing, see "Flushet!l".
Heavine••' sens. in the mceI Alum.
Nice.
Hemiple~, of the face, Camt. GrtlfJh.
Her-pu m the filce, Amm. c. Caib. v.
Con. Led. Sabad. Sulph.
-on the cheek, Amm.c. Nice. Pot.jod.
-on the chin, Amm.c. Nuxv. SiL
- about the eyes, Sulph.
- on the forehead, Caps.
- on the lips, Caust. Sass. Sod.c.
- about the mouth, Amm. c. Anac.
Mgn.c. Par. Phoe. Sep. Sod. c. Bod.
chl. Tox. '
Digitized by Google
12. Countenance, lips and lower maxilla.
Herpu about the noee, Sulph. Tox.
- Jn the whiskers, Nitr. ac.
- burning, Led. Tox.
-dry, Ars. Led. Pot.jod.
- jerking painful, Tox.
- Jtcbing, Cape. Nice. Nitr. ac. Pot.jod.
Sulph. Tox.
- moistening, humid, Sulph.
- sc,abious, Led.
Jerb in the jaws, Chom.
Jerking pain in the face, Colch.
- cheell-bones, Artem. Colch. Mang.
Spig. Stront.
Induration of the lips, Bell.
- Bell& of, Cyc.
l'tflammt~tion, of the face, Sep.
- of the chin, Caust.
- of the lips, Canth.
InjliJmmatCJ!Y pain, Aeon. Arn. Aur.
Bar. c. Dry. Staph.
Irre~r features, Phoe. ac.
ltcA'Ift/! in the face, Agn. Amb. BeD.
Calc. c. Cann. Con. Nuxv. Rut. Sod.
chi. Stroot.
- on the cheeks, Aman. Agn. Ang.
Bell Rut. Spong.
- on the cheek-bones and noee, BeD.
- on the forehead, Alum. Amb. Cape.
Led. Sod. chi.
- on the lips, Sabad.
- about the mouth, Anac.
- in the whi&kers, Amb. Calc. c. Sil.
Livid, see "Blue".
IAeMaw, see "Trismus".
Lump6 (Knotenausschlag) in the face,
Led. Oleand.
- on the foreh., Cic. Con. Led. Oleand.
-on the lower jaw, Graph.
-on the temples, red, Thuy.
Luzation, see."dislocation".
Miliary eruption, Cham. Verat.
Morose apyearance, Mgn. c.
.Mtn&th, difficult to open, Colch. Nuxv.
Mucles, tension of, Ang.
- twitching, see "Twitching".
Net-UJOrk ofsmall veins on the chin, Plat.
Nocturnalpainsin the£,Con.Led. Mgn. c.
- in the lower jaw, Sil.
Numbness, sene. of (Taubheitsgefiihl),
Ana. Pl4t. Samb. (comp. Stunning
~".)
...,... cheek-bones,Assa.Caps. Mez. Oleand.
Plat.
- chin, Assa. Plat.
- lips, Amb. Cyc.
- about the mouth, Plat.
Onerided pain in the face, Amm. m.
Colch. Evon. Grat. 01. Phos. Tong.
Verat. .
To open the mouth, difficulty, Colch.
Nuxv.
Pain denoting featUI"M, Aeth. Colch.
Pula. Stram.
Palenen ofc., Aeth.Amb. .Amm.c. AnGC.
Ant. tart. Am. Artem. Bell Boe.
Calc. c. Camph. Cann. Caath. Caps.
Carb. v. C!Wm. Oic. Cinch. Clem.
Coloc. Con. Croc. Oupr. Dig. Droe.
Dulc. Ferr. Graph. Hell Hydi. Hyoee.
lgn. Jod. Ipec. Laur. Led. ~­
Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mang. Mar. Mez.
Myr. Nitr.ac. Nu:i:v. Oleand. 01. Op.
Petr. PheD. PlwB. Phos. ac. Plilt.
Plumb. Pot.c. Pot. jod. Pula. Sabin.
Sec. Sep. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. e. S,W.
Spong. Stann. Stram. SulpA. Sulpli.
ac. Tab. Tong. Verat. Zinc.
- onesided, Cham. Tab.
- in the.morning, after rising, Bov.
- in the evening increased, Lye.
Paleness ofthe lips, Caust. Ferr. Lye.
Paralysis onesided, of the face, Ontst.
Graph.
Parched lip_s, see "dry".
Peeling oJJ; skin, see "Desquamation".
Perspiration in the face, Lye. Val. Verat.
- on that cheek, upon which one lies,
Aeon.
- on the upper-lip, Aeon.
- about mouth and nose, Rbm. •
- cold, cool, Rhm. Verat.
Pimples, suppurating, in the fa~ Tar.
Verat. ·
- on the chin, Clem, Par. Sass. ,
- on the lips, Carb. v.
- on the corners of the mouth, Tar.
- about the nose, Par. Tar.
Pinching pain, Verst.
Pointed appearance ofthe c., Ars. Cinch.
Nuxv. Phos.ac. Staph. Tox. Verat.
Pressing pain in the face, Bry. llulph.
Tar. Tox. Verb. ·.
- in the cheek· bones, Anac. Ant.tart.
Arg. Bism. Caps. Hyosc. Mar. Mez.
Oleand. Plat. Sabin. Samb. Spig•
Stann. Staph. Verb. Viol od.
- on the chin, Assa.
- on the lower jaw, Cupr. Spig.
- on the orbits, Stann.
Pressing asunder, sene. ot; in the facial
bones, Calch.
-in the lower jaw, Amb.
Prickling in the face, Calc. s. Canst.
Ferr. magn. Myr.
- below the eyes, Dros. ,
- in the lips, Ferr. IIJ8gn. Sabad. .
Prosopalgia, Aeon. Aman. Am. Ars.
Aur. Bar.c. Bell. Bry. Calc. c. Calc.e.
Caps. Cinch. Coloc. Con. Dig. Led.
Mgn.c. Mgn.m. Mez. Nuxv•.Ph<Je.
Pot. c.· Rut. Sep. Spig. Stann. 8tfltM,
Thuy. Verat. Verb. (comp. thecWfer-
ent kinds ofpain.) .
Digitized by Coogle
i 2. Countenance, lips .and lower maxilla. . 505
Prosopalgia, nervous, BeU. Caps. Cinch.
Mgn. m. Verb.
- typical, Spig.
Pulsation in the £, Aman. Cham. Croc.
Purple-colored lips, Bar. c.
PUBtules (Pocken) in the face, Ant. s.
Am.
Quivering in the face, Aman. Phell.
- in the lips, Cast.
Rawness, see ••soreness".
RedneBI of c., Aeon. Amb. Arg. Bell.
Bov. Bry. Calc. s. Caps. Cham. CheL
Cinch. Coccin. Cocc. Croc. Cupr.
Ferr. Ferr. magn. Grat. Hydr. Hyosc.
Ign. Lye. Mgn. c. Mur. ac. Nwx:v. ()p.
Phos. Plat. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Pufs.
Sabad. Sod. c. Stram. Stront. Suiph.
Tab. Tar. Thuy.
- of the cheeks, Aman. Caps. Cinch.
Mur. ac. Nitr. nc. Oleand. Pot. c.
Ran. b. Tong. Val.
- onesided, Arn. Cham. Ign. Tab.
- blue, Bell. Bry. Puis.
- brown, Bry. Op.
- circumscr., Dulc. Lye. Phos. Sulph.
- dark, Bar. c. Camph. Coloc. Op. Sec.
Verat.
- glowing, Bell. Bry. Calc. s. Cocc.
€roc. Ferr. Mur. ac. Plat. Sabad.
Stram. Tab. Thuy.
Redness of the chin, Zinc.
-lips, AI.
Red points in the face, Caps.
- spots in the face, Amb. Bry. Carb. a.
Lye. Op. Samb. Sil. Sulph. Tab.
- - on the forehead, Sass.
- - burning, Samb. SiL
- - after meals, Sil.
Relaxation of the facial muscles, Coloc.
Ren?!:~g pains in the face, Alum. Aman.
mm. m. Calc. s. Colch. Coloc. Con.
Evon. Grat. Led. Nitr. ac. Pot. jod.
Sod. s. Tong. Viol. od.
- in the cheek- bones, Aeth. Alum.
Amm. m. Arg. Artem. Berb. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Graph. Ind. Lye. Mgn. c.
Mgn. s. Mar. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Phos.
Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Rut. Sep. Sod. s.
Spig. Staph. Stront. Sulph. ac. Tab.
Zinc.
- in the chin, Aman.
- before the ear, Bov.
- in the jaw, Aman. Berb. Kram.
Plumb. 'fong.
- - lower, Bov. Ind. Puis. Viol. od.
- in the under Up, Caust.
- between nose and eye, Mang.
Rheumatic pain, Aeon.
Rough spots ou the forehead, Sass.
' Roughness of the facial epidermis, Sep.
Sulpb. Tox.
RovAIICIN of dae lipe, Hydr. Sulph.
'tab.
- - sene. of, Mgn. m.
- about the mouth, AQM.
- red, Sep. Sulph.
8ad appearance, Colch. Cupr.
&lUnD c., see "PaleDellll".
~•• ~I• in the tace, Coloe. Gmpb.
Mur.ac. (comp. "eruption".)
- on the cheeks, Cic.
- on the chin, Cic. tht~pla. Sep.
- on the forehead and temples, Mw.ac.
- on the lips, Cham. Cic. Mur. ac. Pet.r.
Phos. ac. Sep. Sil. Sod. chi. Staph.
Sulph. ·
- about the mouth, ChapA.
- on the comel'8 of the mouth, Ign.
Petr.
Shining eount., Aur. Rhm. Sod.chL
- lips, Amm. m•.
Shrivelled face, Lye. Stram.
- lips, Alnm.m.
- mU8Cles of the furehE'ad, RhQL
Shuddering, shivering, in the fiac:e, Arn.
Rhod.
- onesided, Puis.
Sickly hue of c., Artem. Clem. M!mg.
Mar. Nux v. Pot. c. Pot. .oit.r. PeOr.
Sil. Sod. s. Sulph. Tox.
- about the eyes, Artem.
Slimy lips, Pot.)od. Zinc,
- in the moruang, PoJ.~.
&reneu of the lipe, C.an~ll. Cauat. CtJpr.
Graph. Lye. Mez. ~obi. .
- - comers of the m., ~. ~· ,Qau&
Lye. Mez.
- sene. of, in the face, Con. Pllif.
- - on the chin, Aut. s. P)M.
- - on the lips, lgB. Ipee. Pbtlf. ac.
Plat. Sabael.
- - on the comer of them., ~.ac.
SptU111, cramp, in .~he fiace, Nit,r. ac. Ol.
Tox.
- cheek-bones, AI&Jr. Artem. Coec. J>ic.
Hyosc. Mgn. m. Mez. P'-1. Rut. &p.
Val. ·
- lips, Amb. Caust. Pot. c. a.n. b.
- masseters, Ang. Cocc.
- maxilla, Aman• .A88L Mang. Pot. c.
Ran. h.
- maxillaryjoint, Colch. Nice. Ol. Pot. c.
Sit. Spong. Stann. Tox.
Spider-web, sens. of, in the face; Bar. c.
Graph. Ran. sc. ·
Spottea skin of the face, Sabad. .
Spot• in the faoe, ugly, Sec. (COII\P. the
different colors.)
St!ff'RI!u of tbe cheeks, when epeak.i_
RJ
and maeticaSing, Euphr.
- masseters, Sau.
- maxillary joint, SuB. Sod. s. Ther.
- - in the morning iD bed, 1lef.
43
c.·g,tizec< byGoogle
506 .12. Countenance, lips arid lower maxilla.
,'Jt~ pain in the ace, An. ABU. ~ ef the ekia in the faee, Pubc
Con.- Euphr. Guaj. Maog. Spong. Tenrion (Spannen) in the •kin of the f.,
Stann. ToL Alum. Bar. c. Calc. s. Graph. Lye.
- cheek-bones, Aeth. Alum. EYon. Mgn. c.· Phell. PM.. PM.. ac. P~t.
Guaj. Par. Sabin. Sit Staph. Verb. nitr. Pula. Rhm..Samb. ToL Viol.od.
- chin, Aman. Euphr. · Viol t:ric.
- lips, As8a. Sabad. Tetter, see herpes.
- niaxilla, lower, Eupbr. Sabin. SiL Thick lkin in the filee, BeD. Viol tric.
Thux. - spots, Carb. a. .
- maxillary Joint, Bell Calc. s. Tab. Throbbing pain in the filee, Am. Staph.
Stunning pam in the face, M". Plttt. - cheek-bones, Mgn.c. ·
Verb. Tickling about cheek-bone and noee,
Stupid appearance, Stram. Belt
Summer-Jreclcles, in the fiule, Amm. c. Tightneu, see tension.
,. Calc. e. Graph. Lye. Mur. ae. Mgr. Tightening pain in the face, Aasa. Coloc.
Pot. e. &d. c. Sulph. Mgn. m. Ol. Verat. Verb.
Swalten count., Aeth. Ant.tort. Am. Art. -cheek-bones, Chel. Plat. Verb.
Belt Cantb. Oinch. Droa. Ferr. Ferr. - lips, Sep. Spig.
magn. Laur. Lye. Mang. Oleand. Op; -masseter&, &u. Verb.
PM.. Phos. ae.Plat. Seill Sec. &ann. - maxilla, Aur.
Staph. Verat. -maxillary joint, Amm.m. BeD. Hydr.
- eyes, Anae. Ars. Cie. Cinch. Coloc. Sass. Verb.
Cupr. Cye. Dros. Ferr. Joel. Mar. - under the maxilla, Caust.
Nitr. ae. Op. PAot. Phos. ac. Pot. e. Tingling, in the fuee (Kriebeln), Aeon.
Sec. Spong. Stann. Staph. Sulpb. Amb. Cann. ColcA. Grat. Nuxv. OL
SweUing, of the face, Art. Bar. c. Bell. P1e0n. Plat. Ran. b. Sabad. Sec. TO&.
Bry. Bov. Calc. e. Calc. t. CcntA.. - ebeflks and liJIS! Agn. Arn.
Carb. v. Graph. Hydr. Laeb. Laur. - chin and nose, Ran. b.
Lye. Mgn. e. Nux v. See. Sod. ehl - forehead and whiskers, Amb.
Stram. Verat. Tremor of the facial muscles, Amb. Op.
- cheeks, Am. Aur. Bry. Bov. Carb. v. - lips, AI. Stram. Sulph.
Cluma. Dig. Euph. Nitr. ae. Pot. c. - - under-liJI, Con. Sulph.
Pot.jod. Socl.c. Spong. &tJrsn. Sulph. Tritmut, Aog. BeD. Bry. Campb. Cantb.
- cheek-bones, Mgn. e. Canst. Cham. Cie. Cupr.Hydr. HyOBC.
- chin, Caust. Ia:n. Laur. Nux v. Op. Phos. Plat.
- below the eyes, Art. Bry. Oleand. J:iiumb. Sec. ToL Verat.
- between the eyes, Pot. e. - with widely open lips, Ang.
- lips, Arn. Assa. BeU. Bry. Calc. s. 'l'IDitching in the facilil muscles, Amb.
Ganth. CaJ113. Carb. a. Carb. v. Cinch. Ant. tart. Arn. Cann. C/atJm. /gft.
Dig. Hydr. Hydr.ehl.eorr. Mez. Nitr. Joel.Jpec. Lye. Men. Mez. Nuxv. Op.
ac. Op. Pot. c. Sil. Sod.e. Sulph. Phos. Pula. Ran. sc. Sel V..erat.
' - - upper, Arg. Bov. Calc. c. Hydr. - -'in tl.te morning in bed, Nuxv.
ebf. eorr. Lye. Sod. chi. - above the eyes, Mez.
- - under, Alum. Mur.ae. Puis. - in the lips, Carb. v. C/atJm.Jpec. Sulpb.
- maxilla, upper, Stann. TAuy. .
- - lower, Aeon. Caust. Pot. c. - - in the morning in sleep, OL
- about the mouth, Carb. a. - - with cold air, Dulc.
--corner, Oleand. -in the corners of the mouth, Igtt. .
- root of the nose, Bry. , Oleand. Op. Rhm.
- onesided, Ars. Bell. Bry. Canth. 'nnrictJl pains in the face, Spig.
ClttJm. Hydr. Nuxv. Plumb. Sep. "'Uker1, in the face, Con. Joel.
- temples, Cham. - on the chin, Sod.ehl.
- lips, Amm. m. Caps. Cic. Cinch. Con.
- hard, hot and shining, Am. Graph. Hydr. Mez. Nitr. ac. Nux v.
-pale, Bov. Eupb. Nuxv. Sep. Phos.ae. Pot.e. Sil. Sod.c. Sod.eht
- fed, Am. Hydr. Pot.c. Oleand. Sod.e. Staph. Sulph. Zinc. ·
To~. - about the mouth, Sod. c.
8f1Jdling, sens. of, in the£, Aeth. Bar. e. - corners of the mouth, Amm. m. &If.
Grst. Myr. Nice. Pule. Sulph. aC: Calc. e. Cale.l!l. Carb. v. Graph. Hydr.
- cheeks, Aeon. Samb. Mang. Nitr. ac. Nux v. PM.. Sit.
- ·when entering into a room from the Zinc.
open air, Aeth. Ulcert, burning and stinging, Nux v.
Digitized by Coogle
I J
12. Countenance, lips &c.-13. Teeth and gums. 607
Ulcerr, eating away, Con. Nux v.
- putrid smelling and sanious, Hydr.
l'eins, distended in the face, Op.
Vesicles, in the face, Ant. s. Clem. Euph.
Val. (comp. "efflorescence".)
- on the chin, Calc. s. Sass.
- lips,Carb.a. Clem. Con. Hydr. Mgn. m.
Plat. Rhod. Sod. c.
- upper-lip, Kram. Sen. Val.
- corner of the mouth, Sen. Senn.
n'armth, sens. of, Asar.
Whirling,sens. in the lower max., Ran. b.
nrhite s-pots on the cheeks, Sil.
lVrenchtng pain in the max. joint, Con.
Wrinkled, soo "shrivelled".
Yellowness, of c., Amb. Arn. Ars. Bell.
Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Canth. Canst.
Graph. Hell. Hydr. Jod. Lye. M8:n. m.
Nitr. ac. Nux v. Petr. Plumb. Pot. c.
Puls. Sec. Sep.
- about the eyes, Nitr. ac. Spig.
- about mouth and nose, Nux v.
- on the temples, Canst.
· - brownish, Jod.
- grayish, Cnrb. v.
- greenish, Carb. v.
- in intermittents, Amm. m. Con. Ferr.
Sod. c.
Yellow spots in the face, Amb. Ferr.
- - on cheek and nose, Sep.
- - on forehead and upper-lip, Sod. c.
-: streaks in the upper-hp, Stram.
CONDITIONS.
In the evening, pain in the fuce, Cape.
- lips, Mgn. s. . .
At niglat, pain in the face, Con. Led.
Mgn.c. ·
- lower jaw, Sil.
- in lying, pain, Phos.
- when at rest, intolerable, Mgn. c.
- with tooth-ache, and succeeded by
shuddering and sleep, Led.
When biting the teeth together, pain in
the fuce, Sod. chi. Verb.
- in the maxillary joint, Cor.
From a cold, facial pain, Phos.
W~en laughing_, £ p., Mang.
- m the max. h Tab.
From marticating, fae. p., Sod. ebl.
- in the max. joint, Amm.m. Cor. •
- increased, Verb.
After meal6, p. in the jaw, Mang. ·.
When moving the jaws, p. reliev., Ang.
When opening the mouth, p. in the face,
. Phoe. '
-max. joint, Amm. m. Calc. L Cor.
. Nice.
When shutting the mouth, p. in the max.
· JOint, Bar.e.
By pre11Ure ext. pain iner., Verb.
- relieved, Bry.
When at re•t, fac. p., Ang.
By rubbing relieved or altered pain,
Plumb.
When touched, fac. pain, Calc.1. Cape.
Dig. Puis.
--in the lips, Bry. Calc. 1. Hydr.
Mez.
- increased, Cor. Cupr.
·- relieved, Thuy.
After washing, a rasping p. in the face,
Con.
f 3. Teeth and gums.
ArtAritic tooth-ache, Cye. Nux v. Staph.
Tox.
Bku:k covered teeth, Cinch.
- turn the teeth, Plumb. Staph.
Bleeding of the gums, Aman. Amm. e.
Anae. Ant. s. Arg. Ars. Arum. Bar.e.
Berb. Buo. Calc. e. Carb. a. Carb. v.
Con. Euphr. Ferr. magn. Graph.
Hydr. Jod. Kram. Kreos. Mgn. m.
Myr. Nitr.ae. Nuxv. Phot. P!&oB.ac.
Pot. nitr. Ran.!!C. Rut. Sep. Sil. Sod.
chi. Staph. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tereb.
Tong. Zinc. .
- teeth, Amb. Ant. •· &sr;c. Cub. v.
Kram. Phos. Tar. Tong. Zinc.
- at night, Bov.
-when prPSSed upon, Ferr.magn.
.._ when sucking, Bov. Kram.
Blood, black, comes out from tbe teeth,
Graph. . ·.
..;... aeur, • • Graph. Kram. Tar. Ton«.•
BluiBh gums, Oleand. Sabael.
Boils (lumps) on the gums, Phos. ae.
Plumb. Sod. s. Staph. .
Boring tooth-ache, Bov. Calc. e. Con.
Cyc. Grat. Lach. Mez. Nux v. Phos.
Sel. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Sulph.
Breaking off, teeth, Plumb. ,
&rning in the teeth, Bar. e. Mgn. r..
Mez. Phos.ae. Sulph.
- in the guma, Bell. Hydr. Petr. Sod.s.
Tereb. Tox. .
Carie•, of the teeth, Amm. e. Calc. e.
Carb. a. Eupb. Hydr. Mez. Phos.
Plumb. Sep. Sil.
ln children, tooth-ache, Calc. c. Claam.
Ign. Rhm.
Clucking pain, Carb. v.
Coldness, sens. of, in the teeth, Asar.
Ep. Grat. Kram. 01. Rhm.
- daily, typical, Ep. .
As from congest. ofthe blood, too~ache,
Calc.c. ·
Contracting pain, Carb. v.
Digitized by Coogle
•
13. Teeth and gums.
Ordckl in the ~ Plat.
Crumbling teeth, Euph. Lacb.
Cutting pain in the gums, Par.
- teeth, Oleand. Ran. b.
- - roots, Camph.
Daily tooth-ache, Ep.
In decayed (hollow) teeth, pain, Amb.
Ang. Ant.I. Bar.c. Bov. Cinch. Coot.
Con. Hydr. Lach. Mez. Nitr.ac. Nuxv.
Par. Pot. nilr. Puis. Rhm. Sod. bor.
Sod.chi. Sod. a. Spig. Staph. Su1ph.
Tab. Tar. Thuy.
Dentition, difficult, in children, OGle. c.
Clwm. Ign. RAm.
Draunng pain in the gume, Cape.Staph.
• Tab.
-teeth, Alum. Amb. Amm. c. Aoac.
Ang. Bar. e. Bism. Bov. Bry. Calc.c.
Calc. a. Canth. Caps. Carb.a. Ccrb. "·
Caust. Cinch. Clem. Coccin. Con.
Cyc. Graph. Guaj. Lye. Ml'n. c. Nit&".
ac. Nux v. Oleand. Ol. :Par. Phoa.
Phc'l8. ac. Plat. Pot. nitr.Pull. &n.IC.
Rhod. Sabad. Sabin. Sal!ll. Sep. Sil.
&d. cltl. Sod. s. Staph. Sulpla. Tab.
Tar. Tereb. Thuy. Verat. Zinc.
- - roots, Staph.
lhlnu• ofthe teeth (Stumpfbeit, set en
edge), Caps. Ferr.magn. Mez. Myr.
Ran. IIC. Sep.. Sil. Spong. Sulph.
Sulph. oc. Tar. Tart. ac.
From the eer proceding tooth-ache, OL
To the ear extended, Amm.c. Anac. Ara.
Bar. c. Hydr. Myr. Sep. Sod.chi.
Elongation of the teeth, Am. CalW.
Sulph.
- sens.of,Alum. Ars. Berb.Bry.Camph.
Caps. Kram. Mgn. m. Mez. Sod. s.
EzCf'ercence• on the gum11, Staph.
Eiefoliation of the teeth, Staph.
To the eye• extend. tooth-ache, P111a.
Tar.
To the jilce extend. tooth-ache, Alum.
Amm.c. Hydr. Hyosc. Mes. Nuxv.
Falling out, teeth, Hydr. Plumtl. &c.
- sene. of, Stram.
f'iltuls, of the gums, Calo. o. Can&h.
Caust. Lye. Magn.c. Nitr,ac. (Petr.)
Sod.chi.
l'altor from the teeth, Calc. o. Plumb.
Tax.
- from the .gunu, pUtrid, urine-tike,
Graph.
Jlretting .etta. in the teeth, Pot.o. Staph.
Thuy. (eomp. "gnawing".)
Gapinggums(Abklliffea),A.nt.a. Carb.v.
Hydf'. Pba& Phoa.ao.
Gna1hing wi&h the aeeth,.Aeob. tbt. s.
Art. llell. Cic. HyiNic. Lyo. Phee.
Pb.ullh. Sec. &r•a .V-eNt. .
- when slumbering in sitting, Aiat.>a.
Gnaunng tooth·Mbe~ B!erb. Calo. o.
Carb. v. Con. Nice. Phos. Sulph. ac.
Thuy. (comp. "Fretting".)
Grubbing in the teeth, Ant. s. Bov. Calc. c.
Kram. Nux v. Plat. Pot. c. Puis. Rhm.
Rut. Sen. Sil. Sod. c. Sulph. ac.
Gums, blue, pale, &c., see these articles.
Into the head extend. tooth-ache, Ant.~.
Ars. Bar. c. Clem. Cupr.Hydr. Hyosc.
Mez. Myr. Nuxv. Sulph.
Heaviness, sens. of, in the teeth, Verat.
Hollowness of the teeth, Kreos. Mez.
Phos. Plumb. Sabad. Scp. Staph.
Jerks (Rucke) in the teeth, Anac. Bar. c.
Coccin. Hydr. Lye. Myr. Plat. Sep.
Suiph.
- in the gums, Lye.
Jerking (zuckend) tooth-ache, Amm. c.
Anac.Ant.s. Bry. Calc. s. Cast. Cinch.
Clem. Coccin. Con. Hydr. Kram.
Mgn. c. Mgn. s. Mez. Nitr. ac. Phos.
Plumb. Pot. c. Puls. Ran. sc. Sil.
Spig. Stann. Stroot. Tox.
Inflammation, of the gums, Amm. c. Jod.
Nux v. Phos. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Sil.
Sod.chi.
Infuriating tooth-ache, Ars.
Itching in the teeth, Spong.
- in the gums, Hydr. Rhod.
Knocking pain, Ars. Carb.a. Pot. c.
Lancinating p., see"rending", "tearing".
Looseness ofthe teeth, Amm. c. Arn. Ars.
Aur. Bar. m. Bry. Cam:pb. Carb. !i.
Carb, v. Caust. Chel. Cmch. Cocc.
Hydr. Mgn. s. Nitr. ac. ·Nux v. Op.
Phos. Plumb. Sec. Se_P. Sod.s. Stann.
Sulph. Tox. Vernt. Zmc.
- sens. of, Bry. Hydr. Hyosc. Myr.
Oleand. Spong. Sulph.
Mollified gums, Arg. Jod. Phos. ac.
1'ereb.
Mucus on the teeth, Jod. Mgn. c:Piumb.
- in the morning, Jod.
- yellow, Plumb.
Nerves, as ifextended, Coloc. Pu1s.
- and let loose suddenly, Puis.
Numbness, sens. o~ Cinch. Petr.
To the alsophagus ext. pain, Sod. chi.
Painfulness of the gums, Aman. Amb.
Calc.c. Causl. Phos. Rut. Staph.
Pale gums, Plumb. Staph.
In pregnant women tooth-ache, Alum.
Calc.c. M/(n.c. Myr. Sep.
Pressing in tne teeth, Bism. Bov. Cinch.
Euph. Guaj. Jod. Myr. Oleand. Sod.c.
Staph. Tar. Verat.
- - root of, Staph.
- gums, Staph.
Pressing asunder tooth-ache, Mur. ac.
Ran. b. Sabin. Spig.
Pricking tooth-ache, Bar. m.
AJJ if pulling out, tooth.ache, Berb.
Coccin. Ipee.
o,gitized by Google
• - __j
13. Teeth and gums. 509
PulltJtion in toe gums, Calc. c.
- teeth, Bar. m. Coccin. Hydr. Hyosc.
Puis. Sod. 1.
Pvlrucent ~ms, Nu:e "· Sod.chl. (see
"Rcorbntlc.")
Rsffing pain in the teeth, Stroot.
IIMpiag pain, Mang.
Relne11 of the gums, Berb. Carb. n.
Hydr. Phell. Ran. sc.
- J*le, Bar. c.
Rt:rtlinK, in the teeth, A1um. Aman.
Amii. Amm.c. Amm. m. Anac. Arn.
Bar. m. Bruc. Carb. w. Cast. Caust.
OiftCA. Coccin. Colch. Cupr. Graph.
Grat. Guaj. Hell. Hydr. Hyosc. Kram.
Lye. Mgn.c. Mang. Mez. Myr. Nuzv.
Oleand. Ol. Phell. Ph01. Phos. ac.
Plumb. Pot.c. Pot. nitr. Rhod. Samb.
Sass. Sep. Sil. Sod. s. Spig; Staph.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Tong. Tox.
Verb. Viol. od. Zinc.
--in the roots, Hydr. Mar.wer. 01.
Staph. Stront.
-in the gums, Bruc. Colch. Hyosc.
' Lye. Mar. Sass. Staph.
Rheumatic tooth-ache, Nuxv. Staph.
Scorbutic gums, Kreo11. Mur. ac. Pot.
nitr. (com~. "putrescent, spongy,
white gums' anil "excrescences".)
&retDing tooth-ache, Euph.
Scurvy, see ''scorbutic".
&ton edge, teeth, see "Dulness".
Shooting, see "Rending".
ShriDelled gums, Par.
&lretaellll of the g. (Wundheit), Carb...-.
Dig. Nitr. ac. Sil.
&reneiJIJ, sene. of, in the teeth, Calc. c.
Caust. Graph. Nuxv. Tox. Zinc.
--in the gums, Alum. Bism. Bry.
Graph. Hydr. Pula. Sass. Tereb.
Thuy. Tox. Zinc.
- - between gums and cheeks,. Rhod.
Spannodic pain, Anac. Lye. Myr. Plat.
SpongJJ gums, Bry. Hydr. Kreos.
Sti'1l{f1.ng in the gums, Amm. m. Bell.
Calc. c. Lye. Petr. Pot. jod. Puts.
Sabad.
-in the teeth, Amb. Amm. c. Bar. c.
Calc. c. CaUilt. Clem. Con. Cyc. Dros.
Euph. Euphr. Graph. Guaj. Hell.
Hydr. Mgn. c. Mez. Myr. Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. Phell. Pho11. Pot. c. Pot.nitr.
Ran. sc. Sabad. Samb. Sep. Sil_. Sod.
chi. Spong. Sulph. Tab. Val. Zmc.
Stomacace, see Sec. 14.
Suggilated gums, Con.
Swppuration ofthe gums, Amm. c. Canth.
'l:arb. v. Caust.
Bupyurating pustules on the g., Carb. a.·
. Petr. Sod. s.
81DeUing of the g., A1um. Aman. Amb.
Amm.c. Amm. m. Anac. Bar. c. Bell.
Bism. Calc. c. Calc. s. Caps. Carb. 11.
Caust. Cham. Coccin. Cocc. Con.
Graph. Hydr. Jod. Lye. Mgn. m. Nice.
Nitr. ac. Nux v. Petr. Phell. Phos.
Phos.ac. Plumb. Pot. c. Pot.jod. Pot.
nitr. Ran. sc. Sass. Sil. Sod. bar. Sod. c.
Sod.chi. Spong. Staph. Stront. Sttlph.
Sulph. ac. Thuy. Zinc.
Swelling under the gums, Rhod.
- round a decayed tooth, Sabin.
- painful, Carb. a. Lye. Mgn. m. Phell.
Pot. c. Ran. sc. Rhod. Sabin. Saas.
Sil. Staph. Sttlph. Thuy. Zinc.
- - when masticating, Spong.
- - to the touch, Calc.s. Petr. Stroot.
- pale-red, Bar. c.
- red, Carb. a. Phell. Ran. sc.
- white, Sabin.
- at night, Cast. Hydr.
- with head-ache, Cast.
- with tooth-ache, Bar. c. Sod. bor.
Sod.c.
Tearing, see "rending".
Tenderness, of the gums, Calc. c. Caust.
Phos. Sod. chi.
- - to cold and warm, Sod. chi.
- of the teeth, Mang. Saas. Sen. Sod. c.
Sod. chl. Suiph.
- - to air and touch, Sod. chl.
- - to cold water, Artem. Bry. Hell.
Hydr. Sep.
Ten/lion in the teeth, Anac. Coloc. Puis.
Throbbing in the t., Aeon. Ang. Bar. c.
Calc. c. Caust. Cinch. Coccin. Kram.
Mgn.c. Mgn.s. Mur.ac. Nitr.ac. Par.
Phos. Plat. Pot. nitr. Puis. Sabad.
Sep. Sod. c. Sod. s. Spig. Stram.
--roots, 01.
- gums, Calc. c. Sulph.
To the throat extend. p., Sod. chi.
Tingling in the teeth, Mur. ac. To:r.
-gums, Arn.
T!Jpical tooth- ache, Ep.
lficer1 on the gums, Aur. Berb. Hydr.
Jod. 1\:reos. Lye. Phos. Pot. c. Sabin.
Sod. chi. Stann. Staph. Sulph. ac.
Zinc.
- - with swollen cheeks, Aur. Jod.
Stann.
- on the tooth, Agn.
Ulcerou11 pain in the gums, Pot.jod.
- teeth, Amm.c. Mgn.e. Phos. Pot.jod.
Vesicles, humin~ on the gums, Mez.
Water, sour, fet1d, coming out from the
teeth, Nice.
White ulcerous fringes on the g., Hydr:
Yellow teeth, Jod. Lye. Nitr. ac. Phos. ac.
CONDITIONS.
Day and night, tooth-ache, Amb.
In the morning, tooth-ache, Ant. tart.
Hyosc. Phcil.
Digitized by Google
510 13. Teeth and gums.
IathetiiONiiftK, tooth•che, ia bed, Pot. c.
Raa.
- - inC1'8118ed, 8t~
- pllin io the gums, Par. Tereb.
In the CH~~iag, tooth-ache, Anile. Bov.
Hgdr. Kr•m. MgR. '· Maog. Nice.
Pltol. Sabin. 8vlpll.
-in bed, Alum. Amm.c. AnLa. Bar.c.
Grapb. Hylr. Kram. Nitr.ac. PoLe.
8vljM.GC.
- incr'eued, P&IU. Sulpll.tJC.
A.t ~41, tooth-ache, Amb. Ar•. Bar.c.
IJOy, Dry. Calc. c. Cham. Clem. Coff.
Gropll. GraL Hen. Hydr. Lye.
.c. Mgn. m. MJr. Nitr.ac. OleaDd.
• Phoa. ac. PoL joel. PoL nitr.
Rhod. Sabin. Sep. Sil. Sod.c. Socl.cbl
&d.'· Spig. SUlph. Thz.
- out of the bed, SOd. a.
- - relieved, Oleand.
- in the gums, pain, Hydr. Tox.
- with restleaaneaa, Mgn. c. ·
From crir drawn in, tooth-ache, Alum.
CauaL Cic. Petr. Sabin. Sel. SiJ. Sod.
clal. Spig. Staph.
- increa88d, BeD. Myr.
When biting together the teeth, pain,
Amm. c. Colch. Graph. Guaj. Petr.
Tab.
- increaeed, Calc. a. Sep.
From ~ting, tooLJHche, Carb.a.
With the catamenia, tooth-ache, see
Sec. 26.
From coffee, tooth-ache, Claom. Nuz11.
- increued, Nw:v.
From a cold, tooth-ache, Aeon. Bar. c.
Bell. Cham. Hydr. Hyo«:. lgn. Myr.
Nuz11. Puts. Tox.
- in lij)ring, Pula.
From cOldnu•, tooth-ache, Calc. c. Ther.
- incr., Aman. Hen. Mgo.c. Sulph.ac.
From cold air, tooth-ache, HyMC. Sass.
Sen. Sep. Sil. Staph.
- relieved, Pula. Soa. e,
From a coltl. drink, tooth -ache, Artem.
Calc. c. tarb. a. Graph. Myr. Sass.
Staph.
- incfeaaed, Bruc. Cham. Mur. GC.
- renewed, Nw: v.
Jt'rom coldfood, tooth-ache, Con.
Jt'rom any thing cold, Calc.c. Ther.
- increued,Ant.a. Hydr. Maro.a. Mang.
Par. Phos. ac. Plumb. JS'ot. jod. Sil.
8pig. Thuy. -
- renewed, Calc. c.
From drqft of air, tooth-ache, Calc. c.
Cinch. Saaa. Sep. Sulph.
From drinkin_g, tooth-eche, CAcam. Sabin.
- iner., S8bm. .
From drinking cold, warm liquids, see
"Cold, warm".
By etJiitag,_l!&inincr., &U. Calc.a. Caatb.
Hydr.l\'lgn.m. Mgo.a. Thuy. (eomp.
"meals".)
.;.... renewed, AnLa. PoJa.
- relieved, Rhod. Sil Spig.
Afterfruiu qaed, tootiHche, Sod.c.·
When lying on the sound side, incr.,
Dry.
- on the affected side, Are.
--relieved, Bry.
- in a horizontal poeture, iocr., Clem.
From ma•ticating, tooth-ache, Alum.
Cinch. Ferr. mago. Mar. Oleand.
Phoa. Sabin. Staph. Verat. Zinc•
(comp. "bitiDg together".)
- incre8eed, Euph.'Thuy.
During meals, tooth-ache, Bry. Carb. a.
Cast. Cocc. h'uph. Graph. Lfe. Pot. c.
Puis. Sabin. Sil. Sol.c. Thuy. (comp.
"eating".)
- pain in the gums, Hydr.
After meals, tooth·a~he, AnL &U. Dry.
Cham. Coff. Graph. IAch.. Mgn. e.
&bin. Sod. c. Sod. chl. Spig. &ann.
Staph.
From mental ezertion tooth-ache incr.,
Nuzv.
From taoitt air, Myr. Sen.
By noile incr. pain, Calc.c.
From the open air, tooth-ache, Amt..
Cinch. Con. Nuxv. Petr. Pkot. Spi(.
Suiph.
- increued, Nuxv. Tox:
-relieved, AnLa. Bov.
By picking the teeth excited pain, Pula.
By preuure incr. pain, Tong.
-relieved, Amm.c. Cinch. Grat. Mur.
ac. Tab•.(Sod.c.l Tox.1)
When at rut, intolerable pain, Mgn.c.
When riding in ft vehicfe, tooth-ache,
Mgo.c.
After rising from bed, pain relieved.
Oleand. Sabin.
From •all food, tooth-ache, Carb. 1'.
When •leep commences, pain abateS,
Hydr.
In spring, tooth-ache, Puts.
From lfDeet-meats, tooth-eche, Sod. ~
From talking, tooth-ache, Sep. .
From tea, tooth-eche, Thuy.
With a thunder-storm, tooth-ache, Rhod.
From tobacco BDloking, Spig.
- incr., Clem. Sabin.
- relieved, Sod.a.
When touched, tooth-ache, CaaL CheL
Pot. nitr. Sep. Sod.chi.
-pain in the gums, Arg. Calc.e. Hydr.
Petr. Stroot.
By the touch, incr. pain, Bell. Berb. Cut..
Eupk._ Myr. Rhod.
- with food, Mgn. m. Mgn. a.
B1 1Megar, pain relieved, Pula. Toog.
Digitized by Coogle
13. Teeth and gums.-14. Cavity of the mouth, palate &c. 511
When walking in the open air, tooth-
ache, Agn. Cham. Dros.
- - relieved, Lye.
- food, Agn. Phos. Sil.
From any thing warm, tooth-ache, Anac.
Dar. Calc. c. Carb. v. Puis.
- incr., Amb. Bry. Hydr. Phos.ac. Sil
Sulph.
- relieved, ?tfyr. Pot.jod.
- renewed, Calc. c.
By warmth, exterior, incr. pain, Calc. s.
Graph. Hell. ~fyr. Puls.
- - reliev., Ars. Bov. Call. Lach. Lye.
1\lur. nc. Nux v. Su1ph. ac. To:r.
- of the bed, incr. pain, Cham. Hydr.
Phos. ac. Puls. Sabin.
- - relieved, Lye. Mgn. 11.
- ofa room, incr. pain, Calc. s. Puls.
After washing, tooth-ache, Myr.
With wet weather, tooth-ache, Rhod.
Sod.bor.
By wine, tooth-ache, excited and incr.,
Nu:rv.
CONNEXION.
Tooth-ache, connected teitla:
Anzietg, Clem. Goff.
Cleeb, awelled, Am. Bar. c. Ciora.
Graph. Hydr. Petr. PoL c. (8emb.)
Staph.
Clrilline11, Euph. Puis.
CongettioM to the heed, Aur. Hy010.
Countenmace, heat,.Graph. Stann.
- pain in:Ars. Euph. Pot.c. Sil.
- paleneu, Puis.
- redneae and swelling, Vera&.
Eon, coldneea, Lach.
- pain in, Nice. Pull. Rhod.
HeiJJ, congeetion, Aur. Hy010.
-heat, Aur.
- pain, Euph. PoL nitr. Poll. Tltuy.
VeraL
Jactitation, Clem.
Jaw, lameness of, Myr.
- pain in, Nuxv. Thuy.
Lassitude, Clem.
Lip1, swollen, Bov. Sod.c.
Neck, pain in, Myr.
Relaxation, Mang_.
Re.tle1mes1, COJ!; Mgn.c. Mang. Sod.e.
To run about, neceesity, Mgn.c. Spig.
Saliva, collection of, Stroot.
Sulnna:rilltmi glanda, awollen, Staph.
TrDitching ol'the feet and fingers, Mgn.c.
1.4. .Cavity of the mouth, palate and tongue.
A~ in the mouth, Art. Canth. H.vdr.
Jod. Nu:r "· Plumb. &d. bor. &ilph.
Sulph.ac. Thuy.
- on the palate, Sea
- on the tongue, Aman. 8aa. &d. bor.
- readil1, bleeding, Sod. bor.
-in children, Hydr. Nux v. Sod. bor.
Sulph. Sulph.ac.
Biling eens. in the mouth, Amb. Aaar.
- on the palate, Cnrb. v. Mez. Ran. ac.
- on the tongue, Am. Alar. Mar. 01.
Biting the tongue, at night in sleep,
Phos.ac.
- when talking or maaticati~~g, Ign.
Bltu:k furred tongue, Cinch. Hydr.
Black tongue, Art. Cinch. Nux v. Op.
Sec. Verat.
Blood clotted, in the mouth, Canth.
Blootl-.pilting, see "H~emoptysis".
Bluene81 ofthe tongue, Dig. 8abad.
Boring sene. in the palate, Aur.
- tongue, Clem.
Brown tongue, Art. Cinch. Plumb. Sec.
Sulph.
IVown furred tongue, Bell. Sabin. Verb.
- in the morning, Verb.
Bvning in the mouth, Aear. Aasa. Cham.
Cupr. Mez. Plat. Sod.1. Sulph. Verat.
- on the palate, Camph. Carb. v. Dulc.
Hydr.eulph.rub.lgD. Mgn.c. .RGa.6.
SciU. Sen. Sod. s.
Burni71K on the tongue, Aeon. Allar.
Hyot~e. Ind. Kram. Mgn. m. 01. Phell.
Phos. ac. Ran.sc. Sell. Sod.a. Sulpb.
Verat.
Burnt, as if, sene. in the mouth, Mgn. m.
- on the )lftlate, SeJl.
- on the tongue, Hyosc. Plat. Pula.
Sabad. Sep.
Carie• un the palaU>, Aur.
Coltlne11, sens. ofin the mouth, Tart.ae.
VeraL
.,- on the tongue, Laur. Verat.
Contracting sene. in the mouth, Aaar.
-on the palate, Am. Hydr.eulph.rub.
Contraction, spasmodic, of the mouth,
Calc. c.
Convulriom ofthe tongue, Cham. Lye.
Cracked tongue, Arr. BeiJ. Cham. Cinch.
Nuxv. Plumb. Ran.sc. Spig. Verot.
Cutting on the palate, Hell.
- in tne tongue, Bov.
Dark-red tongue, Bry.
Discolored ton~e, Sec.
Drawing and Jerk. in the tongue, Cut.
Dryneu in the mouth, Aeon. Aetb. AL
Alum. Ang. Ant. s. Arg. Aru. Asea.
Bar.c. Bar. ru. Bell. Berb. Bry. Cann.
Carb. "· Camt. Cham. Chel Cinch.
Cocc. Euph. Hydr.sulpb. rub. Kram.
Laur. Led. Lye. Mp. c. Mgn. m.
Mgn.s.Mur.ac. Myr.llitr. ac. NWLY.'
Digitized by Coogle
512 14. Cavity of the mouth, palate and tongue.
Oleand. 01. oP. Par. Petr. PheU.
Ph011. ae. Plumb. Puis. Ran. se. Rpt.
Sass. See. Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. '·
Stram."'Sulph. Tab. Thea. Tox. Vercll.
lJr!fllUB in the mouth, in the morning,
Amb. Berb. M~n. e. 01. Par. Puis.
Sen. Sod. s. Sptg. Sulph. •
- in the forenoon, Sen.
- in the eveni11g, Cye.
-at night, Hydr. sulph. rub. Kram.
Mgn. c. M~n. m. Phell.
- with a motst tongue, Aeon. Sulph.
- with thirst, Aeon.AI. Am. Bry. Canth.
Chel. Cye. Hydr. sulph. rub. L&ur.
Nitr.ae. Op. Petr. See. Sod.s. Sulph.
Tab. Tox.
- with thirstlessness, Ang. &U. Cann.
Coee. Euphr. Lye. Myr. Nux v.
Phos.ae. ·
1Jryne1s of the palate, Carb. a. Cyc. Hell
Mgn. c. Staph. Verat.
- of the tongue, AI. Ars. Bar. m. Bell.
Bry. Carb. a. Dulc. Hydr. Myr. Par.
Plumb. Sep. Sulph. Sulph. ae. Tab.
Verat. ·
- - in the morning, Calc. c. Clem.
GraJ?h· Tar. ·
- - at mght, Calc. c.
Dryne66, sens. of, in the mouth, Aeon.
Assa. Bell. Myr. Pot c. Sulph. ae.
Viol.tric.
- on the tongue, Arg. ArB. Bell. Calc. c.
Myr.
- in the morning, Stroot.
Enlargement, sens. of, of the tongue,
Par.
• EzcreBcences, painful in the mouth,
Staph.
Filthy tongue, Bry. Lye. Oleand.
Foam, froth, from the mouth, Aeth.
Aman. Bell. Camph. Canth. Cham.
Cic. Cocc. Colch. Cupr. Hyose: Lact.
Laur. Plumb. Sec. Stann. Stram.
Tart. ac. Verat.
Furred ton~tue, Bar. c. Bar. m. Bry. Jod.
Lye. Sod. c. (comp. the differ. colors.)
Gangrene of the tongue, Ars.
Glandular swelling, in the mouth, Jod.,
- under the tongue, Staph. Tab.
Gra~ furred tongue, Amb. Ant. tart.
- yellow, Amb.
Greenish furred tongue, Plumb.
Hcemoptysis, Aeon. Arn. Cinch. Cop.
Ferr. Led. MiUef. Op. Pho1. Plumb.
&bin. Sec. Sod.chi. Stram. Sulph. ae.
Hcemorr'hage from the mouth, Dro1.
Bell. KreoB. Led. Lye. (eomp. Sec. 11.)
Hair, sens. of one on the tongue, Sit.
8od.chl. ,
Hard tongue, Hydr.
Helll in the mouth, Carb.v. Cham. Coleh.
Hydr. sulph. rub.
Heat in them., at night, H!dr.sulpb. rub.
- on the palate, Camph. Dule.
- on the tongue, Bell.
Heavine68, on the tongue, Anac. BeD.
Colch. Mur.ac. Nuxv. Plumb. Sod.c.
Sod. chi.
Inflammation of the mouth, Aeon. Bell.
Canth. Hydr. lgn. Nux v. Verat.
-of the palate, Calc. c. Nuxv. Ran. b.
- of the velum palati, Aeon. &U. Coff.
- of the tongue, Aeon. Ang. BeU.
Canth. Hydr. Plumb. Ran.ee.
Itching, on the palate, Ferr.magn.
Lump•, small, in the mouth, Mgn.c.
- on the tongue, Mang.
- under the tongue, Amb.
- bleeding and burning when touched,
Mgn.c. ·
Mucus, collection of, in the'lnouth, Alum.
Ang. Asar. Bell. Bruc. Calc.e. Caps.
Caust. Cinch. Cupr.lgn. Laur. Mgn. e.
Mifr. 11-fyr. ~etr. Phos. Pho1. ac. Pul8.
Setll. Sd. Sptg. Ther. ·
- - in the morning, Cupr. Plumb.
- - in the evening, with thirst, Ang.
- sens. of, Cyc. · ·
Mucus on the tongue, Bell. Cupr, Hydr.
Laet. Myr. Phos.ac. Pula. Verb. Viol
trie.
- in the morning and after meals, Verb.
Mucus, ejection of, see See. 15.
Numbness, sens. of, in the mouth, Amb.
Bov. Ind. Lye. Mgn.s. Stront. (eomp.
as if burnt, sens.)
- on the palate, Verat.
-on the tongue, Amb. Colch. Hyosc.
Lye. Puis. Rhm. Sod. chi.
- - onesided, Sod. chi.
Odor, from the mouth:
- cadaverous, Nitr.ac.
- cheese-like, Aur.
-earthy, in the morning, Mang.
- garlick-like, Petr.
- fike horse-radish, Aman.
- as from mercury, Bar. m.
- offensive, stinking, Alum. Aman.
Amb. Anac. Ars. Aur. Bar.c. Bar.m.
Bry. Carb. a. Cast. Hydr. Hydr. ebl.
corr. Hyose. Led. Lye. Myr. Nice.
N_itr. ac_. Nux v. Petr. Pot. nitr. 8ep;
Sil. Srng. Stann. Sulph. Thea. Verb;
- - in the morning, Camph. Grat.
Nux v. Sil. Thea.
- - after meals, Sulph.
- onion-like, Pot.jod.
- pitch-like, Canth.
.- putrid, Alum. Aur. Bov. Bry. Cham.
Graph. Jod. Lye. Nitr. ac. Puis. Sabin.
See.
- - in the morninft'.:~ at night, Pula.
- - after meals, C . ·
- urine-like, Graph.
Digitized by Coogle
-I
..
14. Cavity of the mouth, palate and tongue. 513
To open the mouth, difficulty, Colch.
Nuxv.
Painfulness of the mouth, Ipee.
- under the tongue, Sel.
Papillre erected, Croc. Oleand.
Paralysis, ofthe organs ofspeech, Canth.
Caust.
- of the tongue, Causl. Dulc. Hyosc.
Mur. ac. Myr. Op. Stram.
Paralytic sens. on the palate, Men.
- in the tongue, Ipec.
Pinching pain in the tongue, Ang.
Preuing, on the palate, Thuy.
- on the velum palati, Rut.
Pullin~ the fingers into the mouth
(ch1ldren), Cham.
Ranula, Calc. c. Hydr. Thuy.
- bluish-red, gelatinous, Thuy.
Rasping pain in the mouth, Amb.
- - when eating solid food, Phos.ac.
- on the palate, Mur. ac.
Redneu of the cavity of the ruouth, Bell.
Ign.
- of the ve~um palati, Bell.
- of the tongue, AI. Bell. Cham. Hyosc.
Nuxv. Ran.sc. Verat.
- - edges, Bell
Roughness, Carb. v. Cyc. Dig. Phos.
- on the palate, Mgn. c. Mez.
- on the tongue, Aug. Bry. Carb. v.
Case. Coloc. Mgn. s. Oleand. Par.
- - from erection of the papillre, Croc.
Oleand.
Saliva, collection of, Alum. Anac. Ant.s.
Ant. tart. Arg. Asar. Bar. c. Bov.
Bry. Calc. s. Camph. Carb. v. CheL
Croc. Cupr. Ferr. magn. Grat. Hell
Jamb. lgn. Ipec. Kram. Mgn. m.
Mur. ac. Myr. Nice. Ol. Par. Phell.
Phos. Plumb. Pot. c. Ran. Rhod.
Sabad. Sen. Sod. s. Spig. Tar. Thea.
Thuy. Tong. To.x.Verb.Viol.tric. Zinc.
- with sens. ofdryness, Colch. Plumb.
Pot. c. Rhod.
Saliva, acrid, Verat.
- astringent, Par.
- bitter, Thuy.
- bloody, Arg. Canth. Clem. Hyosc.
Ind. Mgn. c. Nuxv. Pot.jod. Staph.
Sulf.h. Thuy. Tox.
-coo, Asar.
- frothy, Berb. Bry. Canth. Eug. Phell
Plumb. Ran. sc. Sabin. Spig. Sulph.
- metallic tasting, Ran. b. Zinc.
- offensive, Dig. Hydr.
- reddish, Sabin.
- saltish, Euph. Hydr. chi. corr. Hyosc.
Phos. Sep. Sulph. Verat. Verb.
-slimy, Camph.
- soapy, Bry.
- sour, Alum. Calc. c. Ign. Sod. s. Stann.
Tar.
Saliva, sweet, Alum. Dig. Nice. Phos.
Plumb. Puls. Sabad.
- thick, Myr.
- tough, Arg. Campb. Jamb.
- viscid, Cann.
-watery, Asar. Mgn.m. Thea.
- white, Ol. Ran. b. Sabin. Spig.
-yellow, Tox.
Salivation (flow of saliva), Aeon. Ant. s.
Bell. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Canlh.
Cham.Coleh. Dig. Dulc. Euph.Graph.
Hydr. Hydr. chl. corr. HJ!dr. sulpli.
rub. Hyosc. Jod. Nitr. a. Up. Plumb.
Puls. Ran. b. Ran. sc. Sep. Spong.
Stann. Staph. Stram. Sulph. SulpJ1.
ac. Tox. Verat.
- at night, Tox.
- in febrile paroxysms, Bell. Calc.s.
- after mercury, Jod. Sulpli.
- with nausea, Verat.
- - and retching to vomit, Euph. Puis.
- with shuddering, Arg. Euph.
- with pain in the stomach, Euph.
- with thirst, Dulc.
Sal-ivary glands, painful, Aeon.
- swollen, Bar. m. Thuy.
- ulcerated, Hydr.
Scraping, scratching sens. (scharrig,
kratzig) in the mouth, Croc. Dig.
- on the palate, Carb. v. Hell. Mez.
- on the tonauc, Mar.
Shrivelled sur1ace of the palate, Phos.
Skin peeling of on the interior surface
of the cheek, Sulph.
- on the palate, Par.
- on the tongue, Ran.sc. Tar.
Slimy furred tongue, Bell. Cupr. Hydr.
Lact. Myr. Phos. ac. Puls. Verb. Viol.
tric.
- in the morning and after meals, Verb.
Soreness of the mouth, Phos. Pot. c.
- of the palate, Mez. Nitr. ac.
- of the velum palati, Phos. ac.
- of the tongue, Aman. Carb. v. Dig.
Nitr. ac. Pot. c. Sep. Sil.
Soreness, sens. of, in the mouth, Alum.
Aman. Assa. Bism. Caust. Dig. Sabad.
- on the palate, Alum. Aman. Caust.
Mur.ac. Par. Thuy.
- on the velum palati, Rut.
- of the tongue, Alum. Ant. s. Arn.
Catist. Graph. Sabad. Thuy.
Speech, difficult, Anac. Aur. Bell. Calc. c.
Calc. s. Cann. Cic. Con. Dulc. Graph.
Mez. Nuxv. Op. Sec. Sen. Sod chi.
Stann. (comp. "Voice", Sec. 27.)
- - from elongation ofthe tonsils,Aur.
- - from jerks in the head and arms,
Cic.
- - from pain in the back, Cann.
- crying, Cupr.
- drawling, in reading, Tab.
Digitized by Google
614 14. Cav. of the mouth, &c.- 15. Fauces, pharynx &c.
~ech, buty, Ars. BeU. Calc.s.
- indistinct, Bry. Calc.c. Lye. Sec.
- - from dryness in the throat, Bry.
Sen.
- murmuring, Stram.
- slow, Tbuy.
- snuffling, Bell. Phos. ac.
- stammering, Bell. Bov. Euph. Hydr.
Sec. Sod. c. Stram. Verat.
- subdued, Tab.
- wanting, Ant. tart. Bell. Cmut. Cic.
Cinch. Cupr. Hydr. Hyosc. Laur.
Oleand. Plumb. Stram. Verat.
- - after apoplexia, Laur.
- weak, Canth. Op. Sec. Spong. Stann.
Staph.
- wh1zzing, Bell.
Speeclllessnes1, Bef3 "Speech wanting."
Stammering, see under speech.
Stench from the mouth, see "odoor,
offensive".
Stiffnels of the tongue, Colch. Sod.chi.
(comp. unwieldiness.)
Stinging, in the mouth, Spig.
- ou the palate, lgn. Mez. Nitr.ac. Ran.
sc. Staph.
-on the tongue, Aeon. Ang. Berb.
Cinch.Clem. Nitr.ac. Phos.ac. Sabad.
Staph. ·
Stomacace, Ars. Caps. Carb. v. Dule.
Hell. Hydr. Nitr. ac. Nu:n. Sep. Sil.
· Sulph.
- after a cold, Dole.
Suppuratingpustulesonthepalate,Phos.
Suppuration of the tongue, Canth. Hydr.
•~welling ofthe interior mouth, Amm.c.
Bell. Hydr. Sep.
- between gums and cheek, Rhod:
-of the palate, Bar.c. Bar.m. Calc.c.
• Nuzv. Par.
-ofthe velum palati, Bell. Coff. (comp.
'Sec. 15. "Uvula;")
- ofthe tongue,Anac. Ars. Bell. Canth.
· Cinch. Con. Hell. Hydr. Phos. ae.
Plumb. Pot.c. Sec. Sil. Stram. Thuy.
- - onesided, Sil.
- - painful to the touch, Thuy.
- - - when talking, Phos.ac. ·
Tingling in the moutli, Zinc.
- on the tongue, Aeon. Sec.
Torpor of the tongue, Colch. Sod. chi.
Ulcer• in the mouth, Agn. Canst. Hydr.
Jod. Nitr.ac. Op. Petr. Plumb. Sod.c.
Sod. chi. Zinc.
- on the palate, Sil.
- on the velum palati, Ph01.11e.
'
Ulceri on the tongue. Aman. BoY. Cie.
Cinch. Dig. Dros. Graph. Mur. ac.
Op. Sod.clil Verat.
- on the frenulum, Aman.
- biting, Sod.chi.
- burning, Cauat. Cinch. Hydr. Phoe.
ac. Sod.c. Sod.chi.
- fetid, Plumb.
- itching Cinch.
- mercurial, Jod. Nitr. ac.
- painful to the touch, Cic.
- - offodd and liquids, Sod.chl
- small, yellow, Zinc.
- sore emartirig, Bov.
- stingin~, Nitr. ac.
- syphilitic, Hydr. Nitr. ac.
Unwieldiness of the tongue,Carb.v. Lye.
<comv. "Stiffness.")
Vesiclesm themouth,Amb. Bar.c.Calc. e;
Caps. Carb. a. Cham. Mgn. c. Mez.
Pot.c. Rhod. Sod.c. Sod.chl. Spong.
Staph. Sulph.
- on the palate, Calc. c. Nux v. Spig.
- on the tongue, Amm. c. Amm. m-.
Ant.s. Arg. Bar. c. Berb. Bry.Calc.c.
Carb.a. Cham. Graph. Mgn. c. Mgn.&
Mang. Mez. 'Nux v. Phell. Pot.c. Pot.
jod. Scill. Sep. Sod.chl. Sod.s. SpiK.
Spong. Staph. Zinc.
."'- bitin$', Rhod. Sod. chi.
- bum10g, Amb. Amm. m. Arg. Bry.
· Caps. Carb.a. Mang.Mez. PheU. Pot.
jod. Sod.chl. Sod.s. Spig. Spong•
- cutting, Mgn.s.
- inflamed, Bar. e.
....._ painful, Nuxv. .
- - when touched by food or liquids,
Sod. chi.
- sore-emarting, Arg. Sulph.
"'- stinging, Chnm. Spong.
VucousneiB in the mouth, Berb. Rut.
· Scill. Verat.
Wasting of the tongue, Mur.ac.
Water, collection of, in the mouth, eee
"Saliva."
White furred tongue,'Amb. Ant.s. Am.
· Bell. Bism. Bry. Croo. Cupr. Cyc.
lgn. M;Yr. Nitr.ac. Oleand. Pe~r. ~n.
sc. Sabm.Sel. Sen. Sep. Tar.V1ol.tne.
- fn the morning, Ran.·sc. Sel. ·
- in the evening, Bism.
Yellowish furred tongue,Bell. Bry.Cinch.
Cocc.Coloc. Plumb. Pills.Verat.Verb.
- - .gray, Amb.
f 5. Fauces, pharynx and resophagus.
(Interior throat; comp. Sec. 27.)
Angi11G, see infiammation and See. 27. Biting in the ~at, Carb.v.·Mar. Mez.
Boll,ris.up,sens.of,CQ..n.Mgn.m. PlUmb. Zinc. ·
o,gitiz~ by Google
15. Fauces, pharynx and resophagus. 615
Boring, Arg.
Burning in the tl'lroat, Aeon. Arn. Ars.
Assa. Bell. Bov. Bruc. Camph. Canth.
Carb. v. Cast. Caust Cham. Chel.
Crot. Euph. Guaj. Hydr. Hydr. chi.
corr. Hyosc. Ign. Jod. Laur. Lye.
Mgn. c. •lfez. Nitr. ac. Oleand. 01. Par.
Plws. Ran. b. Ran. sc. Rllod. Sabad.
Scill. Sec. Sen. Spong. Sulph. Verat.
Choking, Aeon. Amb. Bar. c. Canth. Chel.
Graph. Nice. 01. Ran. sc. Sabin. Verat.
Chronic, affection of the throat, Mang.
Sabad. Sod. chi. Sulph.
Coldness, sens. of, Laur. Verat.
Constriction, Alum. Ars. Calc. c. Croc.
Crot. Hyosc. Ign. Jod. Lye. Mez. 01.
Plat. Plumb. Rhod. Sabad. Sass. Sen.
Sod. s. Stram. Verat. (comp. spasm.
and contraction.)
Contraction (Verengerung, Zusammen-
ziehen), Aeon. Bar. c. Calc. c. Caps.
Chel. Hydr. sulph. rub. Kram. Mez.
Nice. Phos. ac. Ran. sc. Rhm. Verat.
(comp. spasm.)
- sens. of, Alum. Arum. Bell. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Caust. Cic. Puis. Sulph. Zinc.
(comp. spasm. and constrictiOn.)
Creeping in the throat, Plumb.
Croup, see Sec. 27.
Cutting in the throat, Mang.
Cynanche tonsillaris, see "inflammation".
Deglutition, see "Swallowing."
Dilaceration, sens. of, Canst.
Distention, of the cesoph., Op. Verat.
Drawing, Cupr. Laur. Mar. Plat. Plumb.
Stann. Zinc.
Dryness, Alum. Ant. s. Assa. Bell. Berb.
Bruc. Bry. Calad. Calc. s. Caust.
Cinch. Cocc. Cor. Crot. Cupr. Hydr.
Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. s. Mang. Men. Myr.
Ol. Op. Petr. Phell. Phos. Sabad.
Sass. Scill. Sec. Sel. Sen. Sep. Sod.
bor. Sod. c. Sod. s. Staph. Stram.
Stroot. Sulph. Tab. Tar. Verat. Zinc.
- day and night, Phos.
- in the morning, Sass.
- at night, Hydr. sulph. rub. Phell.
- with difficulty in speaking, Bry. Sen.
- with irritation to cough, Sen.
- with thirst, Hydr.sulph.rub. Cupr.
- without thirst, Calad.
- with water in the mouth, Hydr.
Dryness, sens. of, Bry. llfJ;r. Stann.
Dysphagia, see "Swallowmg, &c."
Elongation of the uvula, sens. of, Croc.
Dulc. Plat. (comp. swelling.)
Expectoration of mucus, Alum. Guaj.
Mgn. s. Sod. chl. Tox.
- by hawking, Bism. Calc.s. Carb. a.
Canst. Con. Lam. Lye. Mar. Petr.
Phos. Phos. ac. Plat. Pot. c. Sen. Sep.
Stann. Tar. Thuy. Tox.
Ezpectoration of mucus, by haw~,
in the morning, Amb. Petr. Phos.
Sep. Sod. chi. Tox.•
- - with choking and vomiting, Amb.
Food passes into the choana, Sit.
As ifgrown together, sens., Nitr.ac.
Grubbing sens., Arg.
Guggling in the throat, when drinking,
Cupr. Laur.
Hair, sens. o~ in the throat,with an em-
pyreumatic taste, Sulph.
Hardness of the toru;ils, lgn. Plumb.
To hawk, irritation, Bell. Berb. Mar.
Sabad.
Heat in the throat, Aeth. Camph. Chtmi.
Hyos. Laur.
- at night, Hydr. sulph. rub.
As ifa hWik stuck in the throat, sens.,
Berb.
Induration of the tonsils, Ign. Plumb.
Inflammation, Aeon. Arg. BelL Canth.
Cqff. Colch. Con. Cupr. Dulc. Hydr.
Ign. Jod. Lye. Mang. Mez.Nice. Nitr.
ac. Puis. Ran. b. Sabad. Sen. Sep.
Stroot. Sulph.
- ofthe resoph., Arn., Ars. Assn. Bell.
Carb. v. Cocc. Euph. Hydr. Laur. Mez.
Sabad. Sec. Tox.
- ofthe tonsils, Bell. Canth. Ign. Plumb.
. Sep. Sod.s.
- of the uvula, Calc. c. Co.ff. Hydr.
Nuxv. Pot.nitr. Sen. Sod.s.
- in'children, Cham.
- erysipelatous, Hydr.
- after a cold, Cham. Dulc.
...- after mercury, Arg. Nitr. ac.
- with swelling of the face, Nice.
Irritability of the resoph., Cocc.
Itching in the throat, Samb.
Liquids swallowed J>8l!8 out through the
nose, Bell. Hydr. Petr.
Mucus, collection of, in the throat, Alum.
Amb. Amm. m. Arg. Arn. Asar. Bry.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Caust. Coleh. Graph;
Grat. Mgn. c. Mgn. s. Ol. Petr. Plat.
Pol. c. Pul8. Ran. b. Sass. Sen. Sep.
8il. Sod. bor. Spig. Stann. Tab. Tar.
Zinc.
- in the morning, Alum. An«.
- in the evening, Amm. m. PUis.
- at night, Alum. Puis.
Mucus, expectorated, see Expectoration.
Mucus (comp. Sec.28.)
-bitter, Arn. Tar.
-bloody, Alum. Bism. Mgn.c. Sep.
- difficult to discharge, see tenacious.
- easily discharged, Arg. Carb. v.
- gelatinous, Arg.
- grayish, Amb. Arg.
- tireenish, Colch.
- m BIDiilllumpe, Amara. Sen.
Digitized by Coogle
616 15. Fauces, pharyn and resopbagus.
Mucm, mouldy tasting, Mar.
- pellucid, Plumb.
- putrid, Ang.
- red, like blood, Thuy.
- tenacious (festsitzend), Alum. Amm.
m. Mgn. c. Sod. bor.
- thick, Alum. Lam. Mgn. c. llfyr.
- tough, Alum. Ang. Ant. s. Asar. Bry.
Caps. Mgn. c. Ol. Phos. ac. Plumb.
Puis. Ran. b. Sass. Sen. Tab. Tox.
- viscous, Phos. Phos. ac.
- white, Spi~.
- yellow, Sp1g.
Numbness, sens. of, in the throat, Mgn. s.
Paralysis of the resoph., Myr. Plumb.
- sens. of, Ars. Cocc. I pee. Pot. c. Sil.
Phlegm, see "mucus".
Like a plug sticking in the throat, sens.,
Amb. Amm. c. Ant. s. Arn. Bar. c.
Bell. Calc. c. Calc. s. Cham. Chel
Croc. Graph. Ign. Led. Nux 11. OJ.
Par. Plumb. Rut. Sabad. Sabin. Sep.
Sod. chl. Sulph. Tab.
Pressing pain, in the throat, Amm. Assa.
Bry. Dulc. Fen·. Ferr. magn. Grat.
Hydr. Hydr. sulph. rub. Jod. Kram.
Mez. Nux v. Par. Phell. Phos. Pot.
jod. Puis. Rut. Sabad. Sabin. Sep.
Tab. Tar. Thuy. To.x. Verat.
- as from any thing hard, Arn. Bry. OL
- in the tonsils, Bell.
Pulsation, Tox.
Rancid taste in the pharynx, Bruc. Ferr.
magn.
Rasping (Schrunden). Bar. c. Hydr.
Mur. ac. Phos. Phos. ac.
Redness, of the thr., Aeon. Berb. Cham.
Hydr. lgn.
- erysipelatous, Hydr.
Rending, Aeth. Colch. Mar. Zinc.
Rising up in the resophagus, Assa. Con.
Lye. Mgn. m. Plumb. Ran. b. Spig.
- cold, Caust.
-hot, Hydr. Phos.
Roughness in the throat, Ant. s. Arg.
Calc. c. Caust. Chel. Dig. Graph.
Grat. Mgn. c. Men. Mcz. Nuxv. Phos.
Sabad. Sass. Scill. Sod. c. Stann.
Staph. Stront. Sulph. ac. Tab. Thuy.
Tong:. Verat. Zinc.
- in the morning, Sass.
- in the evening, Stann.
Scraping sens. in the throat (scharrig,
kratzig), Amb. Amm. c. Arg. Berb.
Bov. Calc.s. Carb. a. Oarb. 11. Caust.
Con. Croc. Dig. Graph. Grat. Jod.
Mang. Mar. Mez. Myr. OZ. Par. Pitas.
Plat. Rhod. Sabad. Scill. Sep. Stann.
Staph. Tab. Thuy. Tong. Verat. Zinc.
Snarling (Schniircheln) in tbe throat,
Cham.
Soreness (rawness), sens. of, Amm. c.
Arg. Ars. Assa. Brg. CIUIJ1)b. Carb.li.
Carb.v. Ca1111t. Cor: Dig. llydr. Igu.
Lye. Mp.c. Mang. Mur.ac. Nitr.ac.
Nuxv. Phos.ac. Plat. Puls. RUL Sen.
Sep. Sil. &ann. Staph. Sulpb. Tluy.
ZiJ&C.
8pa.m, in the <B~~Gpbagus, BeU. Calc. c.
Coloc. Con. Graph. Kram. Laur.
Nice. Onisc. Pttlt. Ran. b. Sass. Sod.
chL Btr.am.. Zinc. (comp. Constriction
and ·contraction.) ·
- with eructation and palpitation of the
heart, Coloc.
As from -Plinterl, pain, f'...alc. e.
Stinging in the throat, Aeon. Alam.
Amm.m.Arn. Bar.c. Bell. Bry. Calc.c.
Calc. s. Carb. a. Canst Cinch. Ferr.
magn. Gntpb. Hydr. _Ign. Led. Lye.
Msn. c. Mgn. s. Mang. Mar. Mez. Nice.
Nttr.ac. Nuxv. Par. Petr. PbeU. Phoa.
ac. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Pull. Sabin. Sass.
Sep. Sil. Sod. chl. Spig. Spong.Stann.
Staph. Stram. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tar.
Tbuy. To~.
- in the tonsil8, Bell. Htplr. Ran. .c.
Suppuration of the tonSJ1s, Bar. c. Bell.
Canth. Hydr. lgn. Lye. Sep.
S!Dallowing (deglutition), difficult, Aeon.
Alum. Amb. Amm. c. Arg. Arum.
Bsr.m. Bell. Bry. Cantb.Cbel.H~dr.
I.lrn. ~pee. Laur. Mar. Men. N111 v.
Op. SiJ. Stram.
- impeded, Amb. Amm.c. Ant.e. Am.
Ar1. Arlem. BeU. C4ath. Carla. v.
Cic. Con. Cupr. .llljot~e. Jod. Law.
Lye. Op. Plumb. Pot.c. SotL1. &ram.
Sulpb.
- - offood, in Jy.ing, Cham.
- - af liquids, Artem. BeU. Canth.
Hyosc. Ign.
- - by nausea, At-n.
- inoomplete, Bell. Hydr. Pet&-. ·Sil.
- painful, Ign. Sod. s. (comp. when
swallowing pain.)
- with a rattlingnoise, Arn.Cupr. Laur.
When swallowing pain, Aeon. Aium.
Amm.m. Arg. Aril. Assa. Bar. c. Bell.
Bry. Calc.c. Calc.s. Camph. Ccnl.\.
Caps. Carb. v. ·Case. Cauat. Cham.
Cinch. Cor. Ferr. Graph. HeU. Hydr.
Ipec. Laur. Led. !.¥c. Mgn.s. Mang.
Mez. Nice. Nuxv.Ol. Petr. Phoe.ac.
Pot. c. Pot. jod. Pule. Rut. Sabad.
Sabin. Sass. Sep. Sil. Sod. chl. Staph.
Stront. Sulpk. Sulpb. ac. Thug. Verat.
- saliva,Bry.Calc.s.JI.ydr. Hydr.aulpb.
rub. Kram. !Ach. PheU. Plat. Rut.
Zinc.
- food, Amb. Phoe.ac.
Belridee •UUJllowing pa.in, Arn. /gft. Jod.
Laur. Led. Mang. ~uxv. PheiL Plat.
Puis. Sabad•.Sulpb. Zinc.
Digitized by Coogle
'
L
·.
.,.,._·
15. Fauces, pharynx. &c.- 16. Appetite and taste. ~7
To sUJallow, necessity, Arum. Bell..
Cau t. Hydr. abad.
- when walking in wind, Con.
Swallnwing involuntarily, Con.
welling in the throat, Hydr. chi. eorr.
Petr. Sen. Sep. Spig. Thuy.
- of the tonsils, Amm. c. Bar. c. Bell.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Ign. Lye. Nice. Ran. sc.
Sep. Sod.s. Stann. Sulph. Thuy.
- of the uvula, Bell. Calc. c. Cotr. Hydr.
Nux v. Sen. Sil. Sod. s. Sulph.
'UJelling, sens. of, in the throat, Ang.
Ars. Bell. Calc. c. Calc. s. Carb. v.
Case. Canst. Colch. Ign. Ipec. Plumb.
Puis. Sabad. Sabin. Stann. Sulph.
Tar. Tox. Verat.
Teu.sion, Assa. Chel. Puis. Sep. Stann.
Tingling, -~con. Colch. Grat. Samb. Sec.
Tonsils, indurated, Ign. Plumb.
- inflamed, Bell. Canth. lgn. Plumb.
Sep. Sod.s.
- pressing sens. in, Bell.
- suppurating, Bar.c. Bell. Canth. Hydr.
Ign. Lye. Sep.
- swollen, Amm. c. Bar. c. Bell. Calc. c.
Calc. s. Ign. Lye. Nice. Ran. sc. Sep.
Sod. s. Stann. Suiph. Thuy.
- ulcerated, Ign. Lye.
Twisting sens. in the throat, Op.
meers in the throat, Hydr. Jod. Kreos.
Lye. Nitr.ttc. Sod. chi.
- chancre-like, Kreos. Lye.
- mercurial, Jod. Nitr. ac.
- stingin~ painful, Nitr. ac.
- syphilitic, Hydr. Nitr. ac.
- on the tonsils, Ign. Lye.
V1cerous pain in the throat, Pot.jod.
Uvula, inliamed, swollen, see inflamma·
tion, swelling, &c.
Veins distended in the throat, Pul~.
Viscousness in the throat, Sep.
CONDITION.
In the morning, pain in the tbr., Amm. c.
Berb.
In. the fore-noon, pain relieved, Alum.
In the evertift!J, p., Amm.c• .Nice. Sulph.
ac. VioL trie.
- increased, Alum. Mgn. m.
At night, Camph. Cantb. Graph. Mgn. m.
Mgn. 11. Pot. nitr.
When blowing the nose, pain, Carb. v.
From bread-eating, pain incr., Ran.sc.
When breathing, pain, Arg. Calc. 8.
From a cold, pain in the throat, Bar. c.
Cham. Dulc.
From cold air, drawn in, pain, Nux v.
- increased, Hydr.
When coughing, Calc. s. Carb. v.
From draft ofair, Cinch.
While eating, pain in the throat, Plumb.
- warm food, iner., Alum.
When e:rerting biJillleJf, pain, Cauast.
When gaping, Nice.
When speaking, Aeon. Bell. Berb. M~. c.
Nice. Staph. Tox.
When auJallOtoing, Aeon. Alum. Amm.m.
Arg. Ars. AS81l. Bar. c. Bell. Berb.
Bry. Calc. e. Calc. s. Camph. Canth.
Caps. Carb. v. Ca~~e. Ca'OIIt. Cham.
Cinch. Cor. Ferr. Graph. Hell. Hydr.
lpec. Laur. Led. Lye. ltlgn. s. Mang.
Mez. Niec. Nuxv. Ul. Petr. Pbos.ac.
Pot. c. Pot. jod. Puis. Rut. Sabad.
Sabin. Sase. Sep. Sil. &d. ckl. Staph.
Strout. Sulpb. Sulph. ae. Thuy. Tox.
Verat.
- food, Amb. Pbos. ae.
- saliva only, Bry. Calc.s. Hydr.IVlpk.
rub. Kram. Lach. PheJJ. PJat. liut.
Zinc.
When touched, pain in the throat, Bry.
When turning tbe bead, p. in the throat,
Bry. Calc.8.
From tearm food or liquids, iner., Alum.
From wong lifting, Calc.e.
conne.rion.
With .-Uing of the exterior glands,
Sep.
With thir1t at night, Lye.
f 6. Appetite and taste,
included il hunger and tkir1t.
Adiplia, see thirstlessness.
Afler·talte, of the food, long, Pho1. ac.
Sod. chi.
- of beer, Sulph.
- of bread, Phos. ac.
- of milk, lgn.
- ofacids, Sod. chi.
Ageusia, Anac. Bell. Bry. Cale.s. Canth.
Hyosc. Lye. Mgn. e. Op. Phos. Rhm.
Sil. Sod. chl. Stram. Yerat.
Anore.ria, see appetite wantin&'.
AP1Jetite, changing, Alum.
-increased, Alum. Amm.e. Ang. Ant.
tart. Arg. Berb. Bry. Jamb. Mar.
Par. Sep. (comp. hunger.)
- - excessively, Myr..Sod.chl. Sulph.
...:... - at noon, Myr. Sod. chi.
- - in tbeeven.,Arn.Pot.nitf'.Sod.chJ.
- - while eating, Cinch.
- - with sens. of fulness in the lltOm-
ach, .Arg.
Appetite, 101!8 of, suddeB, while eating,
44
Digitized by Coogle
16. Appetite and taste.
Ant. tart. Arsr. Caust. Coleb. Jo4.
Lye. Mgn.s. :Plat. Rhm. Rut. (eo~p.
satiety.) , r
Appetite wanting, Aeon. Alum. ~.b·
Amm.m. Anac. Ant.a. Aur. Baf;c;
Bar. m. Bell. Bruc,. Canth. Carb. v.
Cham. Coloe. Con, Croc. Cyc. Dig.
Guaj. Hydr. Sui~ rub. Jod. Kram.
Laur. Led. !,.yc. Mgn. s. Myr. Niec.
OL Petr. Pli.os. Plumb. Pot. nitr.
Ran. sc. SeiU. &n. Senn. Sod. bor.
&d.chl. Sod.& Spig. Spong. Stroot.
Sulph. Tab. Tereb. Tox. Viol. tric.
Zinc. (eomp. Hunger, wanting, and
Satiety, sens. o£)
- in the morning, Cyc. Laeh. Sel. Sen.
- in the evening, Cye.
- from fulness, sens. of, Cinch. Phos.
Tox.
• - from sadness, Plat.
- with a clean tongue; Dig.
- with dryness in the mouth, Cic.
- with hunger, Aman.
- with nausea, Ant.a. Con.
- with thirst, Amm.c. Ant. tart. Calc. c.
Phos. Pot. nitr. Sil. Spig.
AverBion to:
- acids, Bell. Cocc. Sabad. Sulph.
- beer, Assa. Bell. Nuxv.
-bread (rye-), Aman. Con. Lye. Nitr.
ac. Nux v. Phos. ac. Pot. c. Puis.
Sod. chl. Sulph. Tox.
- broth, Arn.
- butter, Carb. v. Puis.
- coffee,Cham. Lyo. Nuxv. Rhm.Sabad.
Sod.nitr. Spig. Tox.
- eold food, Cyc.
- fishes, Zinc.
- food in general, Ant. tart. Arg. Aur.
Bry. Canth. Cinch. Cocc. Dulc. Grat.
Guaj. Hell. Hydr. Hydr. sulph. rub.
lgn. Ipec. Kram.Laur.Jlfgn.s. Mang.
Nux v. Oleand. 01. Op. Plat. PulB.
Sabad. Sep. Sil. Sod.chi. Sod.s. Stroot.
Sulph. Thea. Tox.
- liquids, Ago. Arn. Bell. Canth. Cinch.
Cocc. Hyosc. Ign. Kram. Nux v.
Samb. Stram.
- meat,Alum. Arn.Aur. Calc. c. Carb. v.
Graph. Hell. Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. s.
Mez. Nitr. ac. Ol. Petr. Plat. Sabad.
Sep. Sil. Sulph. Tereb. Tox. Zinc.
- milk, Amm. c. Ant. tart. Artem. Bell.
Ign. Puis. Sep. Sod.c. Sulph.
-mother's milk, Artem. Hydr. Sil.
Stann.
- pork, Colch. Paor.
- rich food, Calc. s. Carb. a. Carb. v.
Petr. Rhm. Sod. chi. Suiph.
- salt food, Sel.
- sour-crout, Hell.
AverBion to:
- sweet meats, Cauat. Sulph. Zinc.
- tobacco - smoking, Ant. tart. Am.
Calc. c. Camp~. Carb. a. Coec. lgn.
Lye. Nuxv. Puts. Sod. chL Spig. Tar.
- - snuffing, Spig.
- veal, Zinc. ·
- vegetables, Bell. Mgn. c.
- warm, cooked food, Calc. c. Cupr.
Graph. Hydr. Lye. Petr. Sil. Verat.
Zinc.
-water, cold, Calad. Nux v. Phell.
Stram. Tab.
- wine, Sabad. Tox.
Bulimia, Aman. Ant. tart. Artem. Bry.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Cinch. Con. Hydr.
HyoBc. Jod. Lye. Mgn. m. Nux v.
Oleand. Op. Petr. Phos. Pot. c. Sabad.
SciU. Sep. Sil. Sod.chl. Spig. Staph.
,Sulph. Sulph.ac. Val. Verat.
- in the evening, Aman. Sabad.
-at night, Bry. Cinch. '
- after beer-drinking, Nuxv.
- after meals, Hydr.
- in the open air, relieved, Ant. tart.
- with anorexia, Bry. Oleand. Op. Sil.
Sod. chi.
- with aversion to eat, Hell. Op.
- with borbory~mus, Sulpb.ac.
- with a despismg humor, Plat.
- in fevers, see sec. 4.
- with flushes of heat, Bry.
- with fulness of the stomach, Asar.
Staph. '
-with nausea, Mgn.m. Spig. VaL
- soon satiated, Sod. chi.
- with thirst, Bry. Hyosc.
- with tremor, from longing for food,
Oleand. ·
Cold in the stomach, from ice-cream, ,
fruits, water, &c., Ars. PulB.
DeBire for particular things: ,
- acids, see sour.
- beer, Caust. Cocc. Hydr. Op. Petr.
Phell. Phos. ac. Puls. Sabad. Spig.
Stroot. Sulph.
- bitter drinks, Sod. chi.
- - food, Dig. Sod. chi.
- brandy, ~ree whisky.
- bread, Plumb. Stroot.
- char-coals, Cic.
-coffee, Ang. Ars. Aur. Bry. Caps.
Cham. Colch. Con. ,
- cold drinks, Ang. Ant. tart. Ars. Bov.
Bry. Calc. c. Caust. Cinch. Cocc.
· Dole. Euph. Hydr. Led. Oleand.
Phos.ac. Plumb. Rut. Sabad. Sod.s.
Sulph. Thuy. Tox. Verat.
- - food, Cupr. Sil. Thuy. Verat.
- delicacies, Cinch. Tox.
•
Digitized by Coogle
f6. Appetite and taste. 619
Duire lor particular things:
- earth, cha1k, limf', Nitr. ac.
- fruits, Ant. tart. Sulph.nc. Verat.
- honey, Sabad. (comp. sweet.)
- indistinct, Bry. Cinch. Mgn. m. Pule.
Ther.
- lemonade, &bin.
- mesl-meats, Sabad.
- meat, Mgn. c.
- milk, PhelL PbOII!Lac. Sabad. Staph.
Tox. ·
-pastry, Plumb.
- refreshing things, Phos.
- salt thin~ Carb. v. Cor.
- sharp things (Pikantea), Calc. B.
- !JOUr drinks, Bry. ~. Phell. Sod.bor.
- - food, Ant.tart. Arn. Ars. Calc.s.
Con. Cor. Phell. Pot.c. Sabin. Sec.
Sulplu Ther. Verat.
- spirituousliquors, Pule. (comp. whi&-
ky, wine, &c.)
- sugar, Amm. c. Pot. c. (see the next.)
- sweet things, Amm. c. Carb. v. Lye.
Pot.c. Sabad. SulJlb.
- tobacco smoking, Jamb. Ther.
- uneatable things, Bry.
- vegetables, Mgn. c.
-vinegar, Am. (comp. sour.)
- warm liquids, Case.
-water (cold), Ant. tart. Am. Are.
Cop. Led. Mgn. c. Oleand. Plumb.
Rut. 8ahad. SUs. Tox.
- whisky, Ar•. Pule. Sel. 8pig. Sulph.
Ther. (comp. spir. liq.)
- wine, Aeon. Bry. Calc. s. Lacb. Sep.
_ . Sulph. Ther.
Dirinclination, see Aversion.
Haty eating, Calad. Plat. (oomp. VO-
racity.)
Hunger, increased, Amm. c. Ang. Ant.s.
Arg. Artem. Aur. Bov. Calc. c. Cotf.
Dulc. Graph. Grat. Hell. Hydr. Jod.
Laur. Lye. Mgn. m. Mar. Mez. Myr.
Nux v. Phos. Plumb. Pule. Rhm.
&bad. Sec. Sen. Sod. c. Spong.
Stann. Stront. Tab. Thea. Verat.
Verb. Zinc. (comp. appetite incr.)
- constant, Bov. Hydr. Tab.
- excessive, Coff. Graph. Lye. Myr.
Sod. c. Verat.
- gr~y, BeU. Oleand.
- msat1able, Ang. Ant. s. Arg. &c.
Spong. Stann. Zinc. (comp. voracity.)
-strong, Amm.c. Aur.
- tormenting, Arg. BelL Sen.
- in the morning, Ant. s.
- in the forenoon, Sod.c.
- at noon, Mez. Myr.
- in the evening, Mar. Mez.
- at night, Bel.
- after meals, Artem. Bov. Calc. c.
Phos. Plumb. Stront.
Hunger, with aversion to food, Ang.
Dulc. Grat. Hell. Nuxv. Rhm. Sabad.
- with nansea, Hell. Mgn. m. Oleand.
Phos. Sod.c. Tab.
- with thirst and flow of urine, Verat.
- with vomiting and dia~rhrea, Verat. ,
- with water collected m the mouth,
Thea.
Hunger, sene. ofin the stomach, Ant.s.
Asar. Aur. Ind. Nice. Plat. Sen.
Stann.
Hunger wanting, Amm. m..Caps. Cham.
Cic. Tab. (comp. Appetite wanting.)
lndige•tion, impaired digestion, Anac.
Bar.c. Calc. c. Carb. a. Cinch. Graph.
Hydr. Jod. Lye. Myr. Op. Par. Petr.
SciU. Sep. Sod. c. Spong. Sulph. Val.
lnriJJidity, see tastelessness. ·
Lic1eri6hnus, Cinch. Mgn. m. Sod. c.
Tox.
Loathing, in general, see Sec. 18.
- offood and drinks, see aversion.
- during meals, Ant. tart. Ars. Bell.
Bry. Canth. Caust. Cham. Colch.
Cyc. OL Sass.
Satiety, suaden, 'during meals, Amm. c.
Bar. c. Bry. Cic. Colch. Con. Croe.
Cyc. Hydr. Led. Myr. Rhod. &d.~hl.
Spong. Thea. Thuy. (comJl· appet.Jte,
sudden loss of, and loathing durmg
meals.) .
- seus. of, Arn. Cinch. Clem. Mang.
Rut. Tox.
Savour of tobacco smoking, Coff. Jamb.
Tate, in the mouth and pharynx, by
itself:
- acrid, Laur. Tox.
- like almonds, sweet, Coff. Dig.
- - after tobacco emokfug, Dig.
-astringent, Alum. Mur.ac.
- bad, &bad. Bel.
- bilious, see bitter.
- bitter, Aeon. Aetb. Amm.c. Amm. m.
Ang. Ant.'· Arn. Assa. Bar. c. Bell.
Berb. Bry. Calc.s. Carb. a. Carb. v.
Case. Cham. Chel. Cinch. Con. Croc.
IJig. Ep. Euph. Graph. Grat. Hell.
Hydr. Jod. Led. Lye. Mgn.c. Mgn.s.
Mez. Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Op. Petr. Phos.
Pllunb. Pot.c. Pot.jod. Puis. Ran. b.
Sabad. Sabin. &ss. Sil. Sod.c. Sod.
chi. Spong. Stann. Stram. Sulpb.
Tab. Tar. Verat.
- - in the morning, Amm. c. Amm.m.
Am. Bar. c. Bry. Calc. c. Carb. a.
Hydr. Lye. Mgn. s. Pule. SiL
Sulph.
- - intheevening,Amm.c.Am.Puls.
- - after drinking, Are.
- - during meals and while masticat·
ing, Pula. .
- - after meals, Ang. Ar•. Berb. Bry.
oig1t1zed by Google
i 6. Appetite and taste.
HeH. Lye. Mar. Nitr. ac. Ran. b. ·
Val.
Ta&te, in the m. and pharynx, by itself:
- bitter, after tobacco smoking, Ang.
- - - relieved, Ep.
- - with expectoration of mucus and
saliva, Nux v.
- bitterish sour, Petr. Ran. b. Sulph.
To~ ,
- bitterish sweet, Mgn.s. Men. Pot.Jod.
- blood -like, Alum. Amm. c. Berb.
Bism. Bov. Ferr. Sabin. Zinc.
- - in the morning, Bism.
- chalky, Myr.
- cheese-like, Phell. Phos.
- clay-like, Cinch.
- contracting, Alum.
- coppery, Agn. Cocc. Cupr. Sod. nitr.
Tox.
- earthy, Calc.s. Myr. Puis. Stroot.
- empyreumatic, Puis. Ran. Scill.
Sulph.
- - auring meals, Scill.
- - after dry food, Ran. b.
- fatty, greasy, Assa. Caust. !\lang.
Mur. ac. 01. Sabin.
- like flour, in the morning, Nice.
- like hazle-nuts, Coff.
- herby, Calad. Nuxv. Phos.nc. Sass.
Stann. Verat.
- insipid, Aman. Amb. Assa. Bruc.
Bry. Caps. Chel. Cinch. Dulc. Euph.
Euphr. Guaj. 1~. Mang. Oleand. 01.
Par. Petr. Puls. Ran. b. Rhm. Sabin.
Starh. Sulph. Tab. Thuy. Tox. Verb.
- - m the morning, Kram. Val.
- - in the evening, Thuy.
--after meals, Tbuy.
- lead-like, Calc. c.
- .metallic, Agn. Cocc. Hydr. Sass. Sen.
- milky, Aur.
- mint-like, Verat.
- mouldy, Led.
- nauseous, Sabad.
- nidorous, see empyreumatic.
- offensive, Aman. Anac. Spig. Val.
- oily, Mang. Sil.
-pappy, Bruc. Grat. Myr.
- pitch-like, Canth.
- pungent, Verat.
- purulent, Puis.
-putrid, Aeon. Arn. Bar.m Bell. Bov.
Bry. Caust. Cltam. Cupr. Cyc. Hydr.
Mur. ac. Petr. Phos. ac. Pula. Sep.
&d. chl. Spig. Sulph. Sulph.ac. To.r.
Verat.
- - in the morning, Sulpb. Tox.
- - after meals, Tox.
- rancid, Amb. Assa. Eupb. Mur. ac.
Pot.jod.
- ~ after food or drink, Pot.jod.
- seltish, Aat. tart. A.is. Carb. 11. Cupr.
Hvdr. Hydr. cbl corr. Jod. Mrr.
Ztnc.
Taste, inthe m. and pharynx, by itself:
- slimy, Arn. BelL Carb. a. Dig. Lye.
Par. Pelf·. Phell. Phos. Plat. Rhm.
Sabin. Sass. Sen. Sod. s. Tab.
--in the morning, Lye. VBL
- soapy, Dole. Jod.
- sour, Bar. c. Berb. Calc. c. Caps.
Carb. a. Cinch. Cocc. Croc. Cupr.
Graph. Lvc. .Llfgn.c. Nitr.ac. Nw:v.
01. Op. Petr. Phos. Phos.ac. Pot. c.
Rhm. Sass. Sep. Sod. e. &d. chl.
Sod. nitr. Stann. Sulph. Tab.
- - in the morning, Berb. Lye. Nw: v.
Sulph. .
--when coughing, Cocc.
--after drinking, Nuxv. Sulpb.
- - before meals, Bar. c.
- - after meals, Berb. Cu.rb. 11. Coee.
Nu.r v. Phos. Puis. Sabin. Sep.
Sil. Sod. chi.
- - after Inilk. Amb. Carb. v. Lye.
Suiph.
- stinking, see offensive.
- like sulphuric acid, Plumb.
-sweetish, Aeth. Alum. Aur. Bry.
Croc.. Cupr. Ferr. Hydtr. Laur. Nitr.
ac. Plat. Plumb. Ran. b. Sabad. Sass.
. Scill. Spong. Sulph. Thuy.
- - in the morning, Ran.sc. Sulph.
- - in the evening and after meals,
Thuy.
- - after tobacco smoking, Sel.
- - after water drinking, Phell.
- like tallow, Val.
- urine-like, Sen.
- viscous, Calad. Plat. .
- watery, Caps. Cinch. Staph.
Taste, of food and potations:
- bitter, acids, 'J'ox.
- - beer, Mez. Phell. Stann.
- - bread, Asar. Dig. Dros. Phos. ac.
Sass. Sulph. ac. Thu;r.
- - coffee and milk, Sabm.
- - liquids in general, Cinch. Puis.
--meals in general, Bry. Camph.
Calc. s. Cinch. Coloc. Ferr. Rhm.
Sabin. Stann. Str~tm. Sulpb. To.r.
- - meat, Camph.
- - tobacco (smoking), Asar. Camp~.
Case. Cocc.
- clay-like, food, Cinch.
- coarse, bread, To~
- dry, bread, Tox.
- -.food in general, Rut.
- berby, beer, Nuxv.
- insipid, beer, Ipec.
- - food, Anac~ Cyc. Rut.
- nauseous, food and meat, Scill.
- - tobaceo (smoJUng), Ipee. SeL
- pungent, tobacco, Staph:
Digitized by Google
16. Appetite & taste.~ 17. Disord. during & after meals. 5~1
Tate, offood aad potationa:
-"' putrid, food, Bar.m. ,
,. - wa&er, Sod.chi. · -
-=-COIU'I!Ie. .• 'I
- . · food, Car6.11. 8ep. Sulph;'1lf
- elimy, beer, A-. ·
-. einoky, bread, Nux v.
....,. eour, beer, Hydr:
-..-.:ltread. BeU. Chain. Cooo. Staph.
.-._...batter, Tar.
....,. Win general, Calc.c. Cinch. Lye.
Tab. Tar.
~ - liqGid8, <:inch.
~· - -t, c.pe. Tar.
..... • • beer, 'Oor. Mill'.ac. Pelt..
- - bread, Hydr.
- - food, Mur. ao. 8eiU.
- - meat, Scill
- - tobacco, Bel.
....;..; UIUIII.Ited, food, Thtty.
- watery, food, Cupr.
-winy, water, Tab.
- Hke wood, lltraw, &e., Rut. Strmn.
(comp. ta.etele81llless.)
Tate, duJnees of, RAotl. Sec. Sen. Sp~mg.
- loss of, AMC. BeU. Bry. Cilc. e.
Canth. Hyosc. Lye. Mgn. c. Op. Ph08.
Rhm. Sil. &l.cltl. Bmun. Verat.
Tutelesmeu, of food, AJum. Ant. tart.
Ars. Dry. Colch. CBr. Droe. Hydr.
Nux 1'. Pot. jod. Pule. Rhod. Sass.
·Scin. Sen. Staph. StrtJm. Viol. tric.
- ofmeat, Alum.
Tiair•t, Aeon. AMC. Ang. Ant. s. Ant.
tart. Arn. ArB. Artem. Awr. Bar. m.
Bell. Bry. Calc. c. Cclc. 1. Canth.
Cast. Caust. Cic. Cincl. Cocc. Colch.
Dig. Dro1. Dulc. Euph. Grat. Hytlr.
Hydr. chi. oorr. HyOIIC. Janab. Jod.
Lam. Lour. Led. Mp. c. MKJ~-. m.
Mgn. 8. Nitr. ac. Nuz '11. OleiiiM. ()p.
Petr. PheU. Phos. ae. Plum6. Pot.
nitr. Pul8. Rhod. &lHld. Samb. 88118.
Seill. Sec. Senn. Sil. &d. cltl. &d. s.
Spig. S_umn. &rmn. Stront. Verat.
Verb. Zmc.
TAint, constant, Amm. e. Bar. c. &ll.
Calc. c. Hydr. Lam. Sod. elal. Sulpb.
- vehement, burning, Aeon. Anac. Ars.
Aur. Ben. Bry_. Calc. c. Ccrb. e. Cast.
.Dulc. Hydr. Hydr. chi. oorr. Laur.
Lye. 0,. Plumb. Pot- nitr. Puis. Scill.
Sec. Btl. &ram. Verat. Vei'b•
- in themoming, Graph. Mgn. 8. Sabad.
Sus. Sep. Thuy. Tox.
- in the afternoon, Dov. Ran. b. Rut,
- in the evening, Dov. Croe. Kram.
MJ(n. c. Mgn. s. Nice. Sep. Sod. s.
T'Au1.
- at rught, Ant.s. BrtJ. Calc.c. Cham.
H1dr. sulph. rub. Mgn. c. Mgn. m.
N1tr.ac. Sulpb. Trttey. Tox.
- by beer drinking iner., Dry.
- in fevers, aee Sec. 4.
- during meals, Amm. c. Cocc.
- after meals, ·Bry. GraJJh.
- in pbthieie purulenta, Nitr. ac.
- with anorexia, Amm. c. Ant. tart.
Calc. c. Phoe. Pot. tritr. Sil. Spig.
- with uel'8ion to drink, Arn. BeU.
Canth. Hyo1c. Nuxv. Samb. Stram.
- withdtynet!Bofthemouth, aee&c.l4.
.- with dryne&l'l of the tongue, Dulc.
- with imtbility to swallow, BeU. (eomp.
&c.l5.)
- with urging to urinate, aee Sec.23.
Th'irltleBsneBB, Aim. Calad. Lye. Mang.
M~. Plar. Ptils. Sep. Tab. Thuy.
- 'W1th chills, heat, &e., aee Sec. 4.
- wit.hdryneesofthemouth, seeSec.l4.
- with inclination to drink, Ars. Coloc.
Vitillted stomach, Ant. s. Assa. Calc. s.
Caust. Nuxv. Put..
- by fat er ricll food, All!a. Ptds.
- by putry or pork, Put..
- readily and often, Calc. 8.
- with nau8e& and incl. to vomit, Ant.'·
Voracity, voracious appetite, Artem.
Hydr. Mur. ac. Petr. SCill Sep. Staph.
Verat. Zinc.
t 7. Disorders during a~d after meals,
and after BOme particular sub1tance•.
During meat., in general, diBordel'B:
- abdomen, distended, Con.
- - 1novement and croaking in, Ferr.
magn.
- - painful, Am
- breath, obstructed, Mp. m.
- chest, heavinee& in, Mgn.m.
- -Jl&in, Led. OL
- cbillinesll, Euph. Ran. Ill.
- dizziness, Amm. c.
- eructation, Oleand. &u& SGd. e.
Durirlg meat., in general, dillorders:
- face, heat in, Amm. c.
- - perspiration, Sod. chi.
- flatulency, Ferr.mpgn.
- giddia., Amm.c. .,rn. Mgn. c.~- m.
- IA!M, a&eted, Sed. s.
- headache, Graph. Ran. b.
- hieeough, Mgn. iD. M.r.
- hunger, Verat.
- naueea, Artr. CaUIIt.Cic.Colch. Mgn.c.
Pot. c. &J:bor..Vera&.
o,gitized by Google
i7. Disorders during and-after meals.
During melll6, in general, dieordera:
- nausea, with retching to vomit, Cooc.
Ferr.
- perapiretion, C.b. a. Carb.v. Nitr. ac.
OJ. Sod. chi.
- reeling, Oleand.
- reg~tation (Aufiiehwulken), Sass.
- re8tlessness, Sod. bor.
- rising up from the stomach, Pbos.
- sight, obscuration of, Sod.s.
- stomach, distended, Con.
- - pain in, Ang. Ant. tart. Cic. Con.
Sep. Verat.
---when swallowing food, Bar.c.
Nitr. ac. Sep.
- thiret, Amm.c.
- tooth•che, see Sec.l3.
After melll6, in general, dieordera:
- abdomen, borborygmi, Cyc. Puis. Sep.
Zinc.
- - colic, Coloc.
- - cramps. hysteric, Val.
- - distention,Agn. Amb. Anac. Ant.s.
Bry. Calc. c. Carb.v. Ca1t. Cham.
Dig. Dulc. Graph. Nux v. Phol.
Pot.c. 8ep. Sod. bor. Tereb.Thuy.
Tox.
- - fulness, Agn. Aman. Anae. Ant.I.
Arn. Ca1t. Cham. Cinch. Croo.
Graph. Lacb. Lt,c. Nuzv. Pbos.
ac. Sil. Sod. cbf. Spong. Sulpb.
Tox.
- abdomen, pain in, Amb. Amm. m.
Anae. Arg. Arn. Bov. Bruc. Bn!.
Calc. c. Cat. Caust. Chel. Cic. Cinch.
!)ig. Ferr. magn. Jod. Nuzv. 01. Petr.
Pot. c. Puis. Rhm. Sil Spong. Staph.
Sulph. Sulpb. ac. Tox. Vat Zinc.
...... - pulsation, Sel.
- - restlesaness, Sulfh.ae.
- after-taste, long, o what has been
eaten, Pbos.ac. Sod. cbl.
- anxiety, anxiousness, Assa. Ferr.
magu~ Phos. Pot c. Tbuy. Viol. tric.
- anus, pain in, Lye.
- aversion to work, Anac. Bar. c.
- bones, pain in, HeU.
- breath, see respiration.
- bulimia, see SeC.l6.
- chest, fulness, Lye.
- - oppression,Assa.Hydr.sulph.rub.
Lye. Nuxv.Sod. s. Sulph.Viol. tric.
- - pain in, Cinch. Lam. Phos. Tbuy.
Verat.
- - ~btness, Carb.a. Puis.
- chillliless, chills, Pot. c. Sulpb. Tox.
- cloudiness in the head, see bead.
- coldness, Ron. b.
- cough, Anae. Bell Cinch.
- - spasmodic, Bry.
- - with vomiting, Anae. Ant. tart.
Bry. Dig.
After melll6, in general, dlsordera:
- counteaance, heat, Amm. c. Assa.
Cham. Nuxv. Petr. Viol tric.
- - paleness, Pot. c.
- - perspiration, Sod.s. Viol tric.
.._- redness, Arum. Lye. Nuxv. SiL
- diarrhrea, Amm. m. Alar. Caust.
Cinch. Coloc. Ferr. Rbod. Tab. Verat.
- eructation, Ara. Bar. c. Bry. Cincl.
Cyc. Ferr. Pho1. Plat. Ran. se. Sau.
Sep. Sil. Sod.c. Spig. SulpA. Thuy.
Verut.
- - bitter, Bry. Cinch. Sa1.
--empty (of tasteless wind), ~S·
Phot. Ran. 1c. &d. chl. SulpA.
Tox. Verat.
- - biccoughiog, Cyc.
- - loud, Calc.c.
- - scratching, Myr.
--sour, Bry. Carb. v. Cinch. Dig.
Sass. Sil. Zinc.
- - with the taste of what bas been
eat., Bry. Ran. se.Sil.Sulpb.Thuy.
- eyes, affection of, see Sec. 9.
-feet, pain in, Tart.ac. (comp. Sec.34.)
-flatulency, Ferr.magn. Pul1. Thuy.
Zinc.
- giddiness, reeling,Cham. Cor. Mgn.s.
Nuz v. Petr. Pot. e. Pull. Sod. s.
Sulph. Tox.
- harids, hot, burning, Lye. Phos.
- head-ache, Am!D. c. Arn. Brue. Bry.
Calc.c. Carb.a. Carb. v. Graph. Hydr.
sulpb. rub. Hyose. Lye. Men. Myr.
Nuz v. P100n. Sep. Sod. s. Tox.
- - cloudiness,Bell. Cooc. Men. Nux"·
Petr. Phos. ac.
- - heat, Lye.
- - pulsation, Clem. Sel
-heart-burn (Sood), Amm. c. Calc. c.
Cinch. Con. Croo. Jod. Lam. Sep.
Sil. Sod. chi.
- heart, palpitation of, 8tle palpitation.
- heat, .Calc. c. Ferr. magn. Nitr. ac.
Phos. Sep. Viol tric.
- hiceough, Bov. Carb. a. Cy_c. Graph.
Hyosc. Ign. Mgn. ru. Par. Sep. Zinc.
- hypochondres,p.in,Bry.Mgn.s. Zinc.
- hypochondriac llumor, Anae. Nux v.
&d.c. Zinc.
- ill humor, Sod. c.
- languor, see weakness.
- _
limbs, pain in, Amm. m. (eomp. See. I,
33,34.)
- liver, pain, Bry. Graph. Lye.
- loathiDg, Ipec. Pot.c. SasS.
- mouth, tlryoess of, Thea.
- - stench, Cham. Sulph.
-nausea (Uebelkeit), Amm. c. Ara.
Calc. c. Caust. Con. Graph. Grat.
Lye. Phos. Sep. SiL &d.chl. Sttm#.
.SUlpA. Toz.
Digitized by Coogle
17. Disorders during and after meals.
Afler meals, in general, disorders:
- nausea,with retchingtovomit, Aman.
Amm. c. Bism. Bry. Chrtm. Cyc.
GraJ?h. Pot. c. Puis. Sod. s. Tox.
- palpitation of the heart, Bruc. Calc. c.
bamph. Lye. Nitr. ac. Phos. Sep.
Sod. c. Thuy.
- peevishness, Arn.
- pulsation in the head , Clem. Sel.
(comp. throbbing.)
- pulse, quick or intermittent, Sod. chi.
- relaxat. (Abspannung),Myr. Phos.ac.
- respiration, obstructed, Cham.
- - short, Ars. Puis. Zinc.
- - tight, Carb. a. Lach. Phos. Puis.
- rising up from the stomach, Bry.
Ferr. Sass.
- - bitter, Sass.
- - sour, Con. Dig. Sass.
- - into the resophagus, Assa.
- - - of what has just been eaten,
Phos.
- saliva, collected in the m., Cinch.
Sod.s.
- scrobiculus, fulness, see stomach.
- - pain in, Aman. Amm. c. Anac.
Bry. Caps. Cham. Grat. Nux v.
Pttls. Sit. Sod.c. Tereb. Thuy.
- - pulsation, Sep.
- shuddering, Tox.
- sleepiness, Aeon. Anac. Aman. Arum.
Assa. Aur. Bov. Cic. Cinch. Croc.
Cyc. Graph. Kram. Nux v. 01. Phos.
Phos. ac. Pot. c. Rut. Sil. Sulph. Tab.
Verb. Zinc.
- sluggishness, Asar. Bar. c. Cinch.
Phos. Thuy.
- sourness in the stomach, Sabin.
- - in the mouth, aee Sec. 16, taste,
sour.
- spleen, stinging in, Mgn.s.
- stomach, cramp, Bism. Calc. c. Cocc.
Ferr. Nuxv. Pot. e. Pula. Sulpk. Tab.
- - distention, Aman. Anac. Bar. e.
Cham. Dig. Dulc. Nuzv. Suiph.ae.
- - emptiness, Carb. v. Sass.
- - fulnef!l!, Aman. Anac. Bar. e.
Cham. Cinch. Lach. Nitr. ae.
Phos. ae. Pot. c. Sil Sod. e. Sod.
chi. Toz. Zinc.
- - heaviness, Bar.e. Plumb.
- - pain in, Aeon. Aman. Amm. c.
Anac. Ar~r. A8sa. Bar. c. Bell
Bry. Calc. c. Calc.s. Ca~ Carb. v.
Cic. Cinch. Coloc. !Jig. Ferr.
Ferr. magn. Graph. Grat. Hydr.
Jod. Led. Lye. Mosch. Nuz v.
Pho8. Ph08. ac. Plat. Plumb. Pot.c.
Sep. Sil. &d. Sulpl&. Tox. Zinc.
- - pret08Ure, Bruc.
-sweat, Nitr.ac. Sep.
- - cold, Sulph. ac.
After meal8, in general, disordel'll:
-syncope, Nuxv. Phoa.ae.
- taciturnity, Ferr. magn.
- thirst, Bry. Graph.
- throat, burning in, Lam.
- - sene. of a pressure, as from food,
Amb. Ara.
- throbbing, through the body, Lye.
(comp. pulsation.)
- tooth-ache, aee Sec. 13.
- tremulous sene. through the whole
body, Lye.
- uneasiness (Unbehaglichkeit), Bar. c.
Cinch. Hydr.sulph.rub. Myr. Nuzv.
Phos. ac. Rhod.
- vomiting, Amm. c. Anac. Ar1. Dig.
Dros. Jod. Sep. Sil. Stann. Verat.
--bitter, M,{D.c. Starm.
- - saltish, Mgn. c.
- - of what has been eaten, Ant. tart.
Ar~r. Calc. c. l!'err. Hyosc. Phos.
Pul~r.
- vomiturition (Brechwurgen), Cinch.
Mgn.c.
-water-brash, Amm. m. Calc. c. Sil.
Sulpl&.
- weakness, Asar. Cinch. Clem. Lach.
Nitr. ac. Thuy. Tox.
- weariness, Ferr. magn.
After meal8 relieved, in general, Anac.
Bar.e. Carb. a.
- cutting pain in the a~omen, Calc.c.
Bov. Sod. c. -
- fulness, Ferr.
- pre811ure in the hypogastrium,Mgn. c.
- - - and draw10g pain, Mang.
- - below the aerobieulus, Pot.c.
--in the stomach, Cinch. Petr.
Strout. ,
- rafting pain in the stomach, Pule.
- 80reness in the scrobiculus, Nuxv.
- tension acro88 the navel, Hydr.
- twisting in the scrobiculus, Sil.
- wambling • • •· Cham.
After drinking, disordera:
- abdomen, ooldneas, Assa.
- - distention, Amb. Sod. chl
- - heavinees, Assa.
- - pain (belly-ach.e), Bry. Cinch.
Croc. Ferr. Mar. 01. Puis. Staph.
Sulph.
--wambling, Croc.
- bones, pain in, Hell.
- breath, obstructed, Anac.
- chest, pain in, Cinch. Tlluy. Verat.
- - tightness of, Nuxv.
- Chilliness (&shuddering), Ars. Caps.
- cloudiness of the head, BelL Cocc.
- cough, Aeon. Ars. Calc.s. Lye. Phos.
- - spasmodic, Bry.
- diarrhrea, Ars.
- eructation, Mez. Tar. Tox.
o,gitized b; Coogle
.,__..
17. Disorders during and after meals.
After clrinking, disorders:
- headache, Aeon.
- heart-burn, Lam.
- biccough, lgn. Pula.
- hypochondres, pain in, &tl.c:.
- Dal18e8, Sod. chi. Tox.
- - with retching to n»mit, Mar.
Nuxv. Pul& Tox.
- acrobiculus, pain in, Nuxv. 01.
- stomach, cold in, Sulph. ae.
- - craml', Ferr. Pot.c.
- - pain m, Ferr. Nux v. 01. Rhod.
Sil.
- taste, insipid, Coloc.
- tooth-ache, see Sec. 13.
- vomiting, Arn. An. Bry. Sil.
From acid1, disorders, Ars. Sod. ehL
Sulph.
- after-taste, long, Sod.chi.
- vomiting. Ferr.
- water-b1"88b, Phos.
-beer, Ars. A.a!a. Bell. Coloc. Euph. Ferr.
Mez. Sep. Stann. Sulph.
' - after-taste, long, Sulpb.
- agitation of the blood, Suiph.
- bulimy, Nuxv.
- congestion to the head, Ferr.
- heat and pain in the bead, Ferr. Tox.
-loathing, Mur.ae.
- vomiting, Ferr. Mez. ·
- bread, Caust. Phos. Sallll. Sod. ehl.
- after-taste, long, Phos. ac.
- nausea, Zinc.
- stomach, pain in, Cauat. Pot.c. Sa88.
Sulph.ac. Zinc.
- taste, 110ur, Nitr. ae.
- vomiting, Nitr.ae.
- coffee, CIW.m. lgn. Nu:v.
- uthmat.ie paroxyiiDIS, Cham.
- cough, Capa.
- giddiness, Clw:m.
- headache, Nwcv.
- retching to vomit, Capa. Cham.
- stomach, pain in, Cham. Nwc v.
- tooth-ache, Cham. Nuzv.
- e8K'• fresh, nausea, Coleh.
-JruiU, Cinch. Sod. bor. Sod.c.
_._ ·cUarrhma, Cinch.
- tltOmaeh, pain in, Sod. bor.
-·:tooth-ache, Sod.c.
• lemonade, headache, Sel
- meat, disorders, Colch. Sil.
- - pain in the stomach, Ferr.
- metJt, Bmell o~ nausea, Coleh.
- milk, disorders, Ars. Calc.c. Chel. Lye.
Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Pot. c. Sep. Soa.chl.
8ulph.
- abd~n, distended, Carb.v. Con.
- aftel"*tute, long, !gn.
- }lelly-ache, Ang. Hry.
- diarrhcea, Lye. Sep. Sod. c.
Frommilk, eructation, nau~s,Sod. ehl.
- - sour, Sulph. Zinc.
- flatulency, 8ulph. ac. •
- languor, Sulph.ac. ·
- regurgitation, sour, Ant. tart. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Lye.
- retching to vomit, Calc.~.
- stomach, distended, Con.
- taste, sour, Amb. Carb. v. Lye. Sulph.
- vomiting, Aeth. Samb. Spong.
- water-bl"ll8h, Cupr.
- weakness, Sulph. ac.
- mother'1 milk, vomiting, Sil.
- onions, disorders, Thuy.
- pastry, rich, Puls.
- pork, Colch. Puls.
- potatoe1, Alum.
- belly-ache, Alum. Coloc.
- sudden evacuation, Coloc.
-rich food, Carb. v. Pul1. Sod. chi. Tbuy.
- eructation, Carb. v.
- - nauseous, Sep. Sod. chi.
__.. - rancid, Thuy.
- headache, Puis.
- nausea, Carb. n. Nitr.ac. Sep.
- vitiated stomach, Assa. Pul1.
-salted food, Carb. v.
- solid food (schwere Speisen), disorders,
Lye.
- heart-burn, Jod.
- 1pirituous potations, Nux v. Rhod. Sel.
Zinc. (comp. wine.)
- sweet-meats, heart-burn, Zinc.
- tea, disorders, Cinch. Ferr. Sel. Thuy.
- headache, Sel.
- tooth-ache, Thuy.
- tobacco smoking, disord., Calc. c. Clem.
Cocc. Coloc. Ign. Nuxv. Petr. Puis.
Rut. Sass. Sep. Sel. Sil. Sod. chl.
Sol.m. Spong. Stann. Sulph. ac. Tar.
Thuy.
- belly-ache, Sod. bor.
- bitterness in the mouth, Eupbr.
- breath obstructed, Tar.
- eructation, Sel.
- giddiness, Sod. bor.
- headache, Ant. s. Mgn. c.
- heart-burn. Staph. Tar.
- hiccough, Ant.s. Arg. Ign. Puis. Rut.
Sel.
- nausea, Carb. a. Clem. Euphr.
- tooth-ache, Clem. Sabin. Spig.
-- vomiting, Ipee.
- weakness, Calc. s. Clem.
-veal, headache and belly-ache, Pot.nitr.
- urine, disord., Ant. s. Bell. Bov. Calc. c.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Cqlf. Con. Nux v.
Op. Petr. Puis. Rliod. Sil. Sod. c.
SOd. chi. Stront. Zinc.
- agitation of the blood, Sil.
- eyes, affection of, Zinc.
- gtddiness, Bov. Sod. c. Zinc.
Digitized by Google
11· Oisord. during and after meals.- t8. Eructation, &c. film
From .nne, headache, Calc. c. Nv.:~: 11. Frolll .n.e,D&W!ell. Ant. s.
Rlwd. Sel. Zinc. - stomach, cramp in, Lye.
- intoxicated, readily, Bov. Con. Cor. - tooth-ache, Nv.:~:v.
f 8. Eructation, nausea, vomiting,
h.icrovghing, Acart-buna and water-bra.\.
Cardialgia, see Heart-burn.
Eructation in gen., Alum. Amb. Ara.
Bar.c. Berb. Calc.•· Cocc. Con. Graph.
Lye. Mez. Mur.ac. PhelL Plw•. Pot.c.
Ran. b. Sen. Sep. Sod.c. Staph. Tab.
- acrid, Alum. .A.I!88. Hydr.
- bitter, Amm. m. Arg. Arn. Bry. Calc.c.
Carb.v. Cast. Cincli. Dros. Grat. Hydr.
Mgn. s. Mur. ac. N1a v. Puis. Sep.
Spong. Stann. Sulpk.ac. Tar. Thuy.
Tong. Verat. Verb.
- burning, Calc.s. Cantb. Jod. Lye. OL
Phos.ac. Sulph. Tab. Val
- constant, Con. Cupr.
- empty (of tasteless wind), Aeon.
Aman. Amm.c. Amm. m. Arg. Ant.
tart. Arn. Bar. c. BelL Bruc. Bry.
Calad. Cann. Carb.v. Camt. Cocc.
Colch. Coloo. Con. Cyc. Euph. Guaj.
Hyde. Ind. Ipee. Kearn. Laur. ~Ign.•.
Men. Mez. Oleand. OL Pko.. Plat.
Plumb. Ran. sc. Rut. Sabad. Sabin.
Senn. Sod. ckl. Staph. Sulpk. Tab.
Tar. Tox. Val. Verat. Verb.
- fatt~, ~yc.
- garlic-like, Assa.
- hiccoughing, Ant. tart. Cyc.
- impeded (with ineffectual efforts),
Aeon. Amm.c. Bell Case. Ferr. magn.
Grat. Phos. Plat.
- imperfect, Arn. Phos.ac. Sabad.
- like ink tasting, Ind.
- interrupted, Arn.
'- loud, Cil.lc. c. Con. Petr. Plat.
- obstructing breath, Grat.
- offensive smelling,Cocc. PhelLSuiph.
- - tasting, Senn.
-painful, Carb.a. Caust. Con. Nuxv.
Plumb. Sabad. Sep. Sod. c.
-putrid, Arn. Bell. Cocc. Hydr. Mgn.s.
Mur.ac. Nuxv. Oleand. Tab. Thuy.
- rancid, Assa. Ran.sc. Thuy. Val.
- like rotten eggs, Ant. tart. Sep. Stann.
VGI.
- scratching, Ant. s. Myr. Sod. chl.
Staph.
- sour, Alum. Amb. Amm. c. Bar. e.
IJr:y. Calc.c. Carb.a. Carb. v. Caust.
Cinch. Cyc. Dig. Graph. Jod. Lye.
Mltn. c. Nitr.ac. Nv.:~:v. Petr. Plw•.
PTW•. ac. Pot. c. Puis. Ran. se. Sll8s.
&p. Sil. Sod. chi. Sod. nitr. Spig.
Stann. Stram. Sulph. Sulpk. ac. Tab.
Verat. Ziac.
·Eructation in gen., sour, with bitterness
in the mouth, Graph.
-spasmodic, Nuxv. Phos.
- taeting ofwhat has beeneaten, Aman.
Amb. Amm. c. Ant. •· Bry. Calc. c.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Caust. Chel Cinch.
Con.Croc. Euphr. Kram.Laur.Nuxv.
01. Phell. Pho•. Plumb. Pul6. Ran.1c.
Rut. Sep. Sil. Sod.chi. Sulph. Th:uy.
Tox. Verat.
- - after rich food, Carb. v.
- urine-like tuting, 01.
-vehement, Arn. Plumb. Verat.
Eructation, pre•ent: ·
-in tht> morning, Croc. Val.
- in the afternoon, Lye.
-in the evening, Ran.sc.
- at night, Ant. tart. Sulph.
- after drinking, Mez. Tar. Tox.
- during meals, Oleand. Sass. Sod. c.
- after mt>als, Ang. Ars. Bar. c. Bry.
Calc.c. Carb. v. Cic. Cinch. Dig. Ferr.
Myr. Plw•. Plat. Ran.1c. Sa86. Sep.
Sil. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Spig. Sulph.
Thuy. Tox. Verat. Zinc.
- after milk, Sod. chi. Sulph. Zinc.
- after rich food, Carb. v. Sep. Sod.chi.
. Thuy.
- when rising from lying, Tox.
- after tobacco smoking, Sel.
Eructation, attended by:
- belly-ache, Cham.
- chest, pain in, Zine.
- obstructed breath, Grat.
- retching to vomit, Cocc. Verb.
- scrobiculus, pain, Cocc.
- stomach, pain, Calad. Cham. Cocc.
Phos. Spong. Tox.
- throat, choking, Caust.
- - fulness, Con.
--pain in, Nuxv.
Heart-burn in gen., Alum. Amb. Amm. c.
Arg. Calc. c. Canth. Caps. Carb. a.
Carb.v. Cinch. Con. Croc. Guaj. Jod.
Lye. Mang. Nitr.ac. Pt>tr. Phos. Pot.c.
Sabad. Sil. Sod.chi. Sulph. &dph.ac.
Tab. Zinc.
- rising up into the tb.roat, Con. Lye.
Mang. Sod. chi. Tab.
- scratching, Carb. a.
- in the evening, Amb.
- after drinking, Lam.
Digitized by Coogle
18. Eructation, nausea, vomiting, &c.
HeGrt-bum in gen., after meals, Amm.c.
Calc. c. Cinch. Con. Croc. Jod. Lam.
Lye. Sep. Sil. Sod. chi.
- - ofsolid food, Jod.
- after sweet meat, Zinc.
- after tobacco smoking, Staph. Tar.
- when walking in the open air, Amb.
Hu:cough in gen., Aman. Agn. Amm. m.
BelL Bov. Bry. Carb. a. Chel. Colch.
Dros. Euph. Graph. Hyosc. Ign.
Mgn. m. Nice. Nuxv. Phos. Plumb.
Puis. Rut. Sel. Sil. Sod. s. Spong.
Stann. Stront. Tab. Verat. Verb. Zinc.
- painful, Kram. Mgn. m. Tab.
-spasmodic, Nuxv. Ran. b. Tab.
- vehement, Amm. m. Cic. Kram. Lye.
Mar. Nice. Nux11. Stront. Verat.
- in the evening, Nice. Sil.
- after breakfast, Zinc.
- after drinking, Ign. Puis.
..... after exercise, Carb. v.
- during meals, Mgn. m. Mar.
- after meals, Bov. Carb. a. Cyc. Graph.
Hyosc. Ign. Mgn. m. Par. Sep. Zinc.
- from tobacco smoking, Ant. s. Arg.
Ign. Puis. Rut. Sel.
- attended by:
- chest, pain, Amm.m.
- irritability, Agn.
- stomach, pain, Kram. Mgn. m.
Riac passion, ()p. Plumb.
Loathing (Eke1), Ant. s. Arn. Asar.
Bar.m. Bell. Cast. Cuf.r. Grat. Guaj.
Kram. Laur.Mgn.s. 0 .Phell. Plumb.
Pot. jod. Prun. Sec. Sen. Senn. Tigl.
- at night, Kram.
- after beer, Mur. ac.
- offood, see Sec. 16, "aversion".
- after meals, Ipec. Ol. Sass.
Namea (Uebelke1t) in geru, Aeon. Agn.
Alum.Aman. Amb. Anac. Ang. Ant.I.
Ant.tart. Am. Ars. Asar. BeU. Bo11.
Bry. Calsd. Calc. s. Cann. Carb. a.
Carb. 11. Caust. Cham. Cic. Cocc.
Colch. Con. Cupr. Cyc. Dig. Dulc.
Ferr. magn. Graph. HeU. Hydr.
Hyosc. lgn. Jod. Ipec. Kram. Laur.
Led. Lye. Mez. Mosch. Nux11. Oleand.
01. Onisc. Op. Petr. Phell. Phos.
Phos. ac. Plat. Plumb. Pot. c. Puis.
Ran. b. Ran.se. Rhod. Sass.Scill. Sec.
Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. bor. Sod. c. Sod.
chl. Spong. Stann. Stroot. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Tab. Tar. Thea. Ther.
Tbuy. Tigl. To~. Verat. Viol. tric.
Zinc. •
- in the abdomen, Agn. Cupr. Rhm.
- in the chest, Hydr. 01. _
. - on the palate, Cupr. Cyc. Phos. ac.
- in the scrobiculus, Agn. Caps. Cupr.
Mosch. (Mar. Scill.)
NtiUSea in gen., in the stomach, Cyc.
Jamb. Sen. Senn. Sulph. ac. Thuy.
-- in the throat, Cupr. Ph01. ac. (Stann.)
-·ofanykind, Ant.s. Con. lpec. Nuxv.
PhOI.
- chronic, Bar. Nux v.
- constant, Ant. tart. Arg. Are. Carb. v.
Cast. Coloc. Grat. Lye. Mgn. m. Sass.
Sil. Sod. c. Verat.
- faintish, Ang. Carb.a. Caust. Cham.
Cocc. Mgn.m. Pot.c. Tab. Val. Verat.
- 88 after (fut or) rich food, Aeon. Cyc.
Tar.
- squeamish (with a vomitory disposi-
tion, brecherliche), Aeon. Alum.
Aman. Amm. c. Ant.1. Ant. tart. Arn.,
Asar. Bar. m. ·Bell. Bism. Bry. Calc.8.
Camph. Caps. Cast. Cham. Cocc. Con.
Cop. Cupr. Cyc. Dig. Ferr. Graph.
Grat. Hy_dr. Nitr. ac. Nux 11. Oleaful•
Ol. Op. Petr. Phell. Plumb. Pot. c.
Pot. mtr. Puls. Ran. sc. Rhod. Sabatl.
Sass. Scill. Sen. Senn. Sod. bor. Sod. 8,
Staph. Sulph. Tab. Tigl. To~. Val.
Verat. ·
- asaftersweet-meats, Aeon. Cyc. Tar.
- 88 ifoccasioned by a piece of thread
in the pharynx, Val.
- wambling, Carb. a. Caust. Cham.
Cyc. Lye. Sod.s. Sulph. Thea. Thuy.
Na'!UJea, in the morning, Aeon. Alum.
Anac. Arn. Berb. Bry. Calad. Calc. c.
Calc. s. Carb. 11. Cham. Cic. Graph.
Lye. Mgn. m. Nux11. Phos. Ran. sc.
§ep. Sil. Sod.cbl. Spig.Staph. Sulph.
- in the forenoon, Bov.
- in the afternoon, Ran. b.
- in the evening, Asar. Cyc. Phos. ,
Pub!. Ran. b.
-at night, Amm. c. Carb. a. Hydr.
Krani. Pot. nitr. Ther. Tox.
- after midnight, Ran. sc.
- after breakfust, Cham.
- after coffee, Caps. Cham.
- after a cold, Cocc.
- while drinking, Bry.
- after drinking, Mar. Nux v. Puis.
Sod. chi. Tox.
- - water, relieved, Phos.
- by eating relieved, Phos. Sabad. ·
Sep.
- from eggs, smell of, Colcl&.
- on entering into a room, Alum.
- by eructation relieved, Ant. tan.
Rhod.
- from exercising, Are. Coleb. Tab.
Tber.
- in lying relieved, Tox.
- before meals, Sulph.
- during meals, Ang. Caust. Cie. Coco.
o,9itized by Coogle
18. Eructation, nausea, vomiting, &c. 527
Colob. Ferr. Mgn.e. 01. P~~ &J. Nawea, attended by: '
6or•. Veru. . ~ - headBche, Ant.tart.Asar.Hydr.Mez.
~. after meals, ~ Awn. c. Ran. Sil. Sod.a. Tar. (comp. Sec.7.)
An. Bism..@rJ. Cale.c.Caust.C/aam. -heat, Hydr. (comp. Sec.4.) · .
, Coo. Cye. G~ Grat. Lye. Nu:~: 11. - hunger, HeU. Mgn. m. Oleand. Phos.
01. PIN. Pot.e.Pal&. Sep. 8il. &4.s. Sod. c. Tab.
&.M. 8ulph. tv. -languor, Plat. Sod.a.
- .from ma&, amell of, Colch. - lips. fale, Val.
- .when meditating, Sod.bor. . - nave retracted, M011eh.
- from mental affection, Pot. e. · - restlessness, lgn. . . ·
- from milk, Calc. c. - saliva, collection o( in the m., Asar.
-in the open air, Aeon. ~g. Lye. . Cocc. Ipec. Mgn.s. Mez. Oleand.Yal.
-A..- relieved, L;re. Tab. Tar. .- shuddering, Asar. Mez. Sabad.
- after overheating oneself, 8il. - scrobiculus, pain in, Amm. c. Ant
- inpregnantwomen, Con. !pee. N~ v. - tart. Calad. Caps. Dig. Pule.
Fetr•.Sep. Sod. chi. - stomach, cold.Dess, Grat. Tab.
- when pre81!1ing on the scrobiculus, - - fulness, Sabin. · ·'
Hyosc. - - pain, Ars. Laet. Onisc. Rhod.
- frOm rich food, Carb. a. Nitr.ae. Sep. - taste, bitter, BeU. J.iye•.Sep.
- from riding in a vehicle, Cocc. Lye. - - putrid, Cupr. ·
Petr. Sei.>. Sod. bor. - - sour, Spong.
-when rismg from lying;Dry. Cocc. -~sweet, }[ydr. ·~ ·
-in a room originating or relieved, Pyrom, see Water-brash.
Lye. Regurgitation (Aufschwulken), &(r.
-when sittin~ down, Dry. Verb.
~ when smokingtobacco, Carb. a. Clem. - acrid, Ant. tart. Ars.
Euphr. - bitter, Arn. Cic. Graph. Grat. Ign.
- when spitting out, Led. Mar. Pula. &ur.
- from strong sounds, .Ther. - - ofwhat has been eaten, Mar.
-when swallowing saliva,l)olch. -bitterish-sour, Amm.m. Cann. Cast.
- when talking, Alum. Sod. bor. Sulph. ac.
- when walking in the open air, Aeon. - ofblood, Sep.
Ang. - of what h8.1j been eaten, Amm. m.
- after walking in the open air, Alum. BelL Bry. Canth. l'err. Graph. Ign.
- after wind discharged, relief, Ant. Lye. Mgn. m. Mar. Phos. Sod. chi.
tart. 8ulph. To:~:.
- from wine, Ant. s. - ofa ~reeniah fluid, Graph.
Nawea, attended by: - of m1lk used, Ant. tart. Lye.
-_anorexia, Ant. s. BeU. ~. Cupr. - saltish, Ant. tart. Am. Sulph.ac.
HeU. Laur. Mgn. s. 01. - scratching, Cann.
-anxiety, anxiousness, Ant. ttlf't. Dry. -slimy, Arn. Mgn.s.
I>Ut. lgn. Plat. Pot. c. Tar. - sour, Ant. tart. Calc.c. Carb.v. Con.
- asthmatic paroxysms, Cham. Dig. Graph. Lye. Petr. Phos. Plumb.
- belly-ache, Aman. Mosch. Rhm. Tab. . Pot. c. Puis. Sass. Sod. chi. Sod. s.
- bulimia, Mgn.m. Spig. Val. Spong; Sulph.
- buzzing in the ears, AeOn. - - of the meals taken, Graph. Lye.
- chest, pain in, Hydr. 01. ' Phos. Sod. chi. Sulph.
-chills, Bov. Sulph.ac. (comp. Sec.4.) - - ofmilk used, LJle.
- coldness, Calc. s. Val. (comp. Sec.4.) - sweetish, Plumh. Sulph.ac.
- countenance, heat, Stront. - waterish, Ant. s. Ant. tart. Arn. Grat.
- - paleness, Ant. tart. Calc. s. Tab. Mgn. s. Plumh. Senn.
- - redness, Verat. - ofa yellow duid, Cic.
- decubitus, Ars. Asar. Cocc. Mosch.
- dejection, Dig.
- drunkenness, Cupr.
-eructation, Aeon. Ars. Coce. Ipec.
Sep. Spig.
- eyes, aching, Sil. Sod. s.
- - when turned, Sil.
- dow of urine, Verat.
-giddiness, Calad. Camph. Hydr.
Mgn.c. Ther. (comp. ~.6.) -with burning in the throat, Cic.
- at night, Canth.
- during meals, Sass.
- af\er meals, Bry. Con. Dig. Ferr.
Sara. Thuy.
- after milk used, Ant. tart. Calc.c. Lye
- when stooping, Cic.
- in walking, Mgn, m.
Digitized by Coogle
..
528 18. Eructation, nausea, vomiting, &c.
Regurgitation, with stomach, pain in,
BeU. ·
- - tremulous aens., Mgn.e.
RUing up, into the throat, A!sa. Con.
Lye. Mgn. m. Plumb. Ran. b. Spig.
(COIDJ?• Sec.l5.)
- bitteriSh-sweet, Plat.
- of1
a nauseous fluid, Plat.
-sour, Mang. Phos.
_.:. eweet, HyiJr. Ind.
- ofa sweetish fluid, Aeon.
Sood, see Heart-bum.
SqueamulmeBB, see Nausea.
Vomiting, in gen., Amb. Anae. Ant. s.
ArB. Cole.c. Camph. Cocc. Cupr. Dig.
Grat. llyoae. /pee. Laur. Lt,c. Nuxv.
Op. Pho1. SU. ~tdph. Ther. 'Val. Zinc.
- acrid, Arg. Ipec.
- bilious, Aeon. 'Ant. s. Ars. Bell. Bry.
• Calc. s. Camph.: Ccnn. Canth. Cham.
Colch. Crtpr. Dig. DroB. Grat. Hydr.
~Jrn; Jod.lpec. 'Lye. Mur.ae. Nuxv.
Phos. Plumb. Pols. Sabin. Samb.
Sec. Sep. Sod.ehl. Stram. Val. Verat.
- bitter, Aeon. Bry. Calc.c. Cast. Hydr.
Mgn.c. Mez. Oleand. Petr.Sil. Stann.
Solph. Verat. Zinc.
- bitterish sour, Grat. Ipec. Puis.
-black, An. Calc.e. Hell. Laur. Phos.
Plumb. Sec. Sulph. Verat.
- of blood, Aeon. Arn. Ars. Bell. Bry.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Camph. Canth. Carb.v.
Caust. Cic. Cinch. Cl!J>r. Dros. Hyo•c.
Ipee. Lye. Mez. Millef. Nux v. Op.
Phos. Plumb. Pot. nitr. Pols. Sulph.
Verat. Zinc.
- - clotted, Am. Caust.
- chronic, ArB. Graph. Nux v. Puis.
Sil. Sulph.
-easy, Cure. Sec.
-foamy, frothy, Aeth. Verat.
- of the food made use of, Aeth. Ant.
tart. An. Bry. Calc. c. Canth. Cinch.
OJlch. Cure. Dig. Ferr. Graph. Hydr.
llyosc. lgn. Ipec. Kram. Lam. Laur.
Lye. Mgn.s. Mur.ac. Nuxv. Oleand.
Phos. Phos. ac. Plumb. Pot. c. Puls.
Sal)in. Samb. Sep. Sod. chl. Stann.
Sulph. Sulph.ae. Thuy. Verat.
- gelatinous, Ipec.
-glairy, Cure.
- green, AE>th. Ars. Calc.s. Cann. Hell.
!pee. Mez. Oleand. Op. Petr. Phos.
Plumb. Stram. Verat.
- iliac passion, Op. Plumb. ·
- ofliquids taken, !pee.
- long continued, see chronic.
-milkY,, Aeth. Am. Sep.
- ofmilk used, Aeth. Samb.
- of mucus, Aeon; Aeth.
- - bloody, Aeon. Calc. s. Hyosc.
Pot.nitr.
Vomiting, periodical, Cupr. Nuxv.
- porraeeous, see green.
- Mltieh, Mgn. c. Sod.s.
- eour, Ant. tart. Bell. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Ca!Ul. Ferr. Graph. Nux v. Phos.ac.
Sass. Sod. chi. Sod. s. Stram. &tlph. ·
Tab. Thuy. Verat.
- stercoraceous, Op. Plumb.
- straining, Ant. tart. Asar. (eomp. ve-
hement.)
- of urine, Op.
- vehement, Ant. tart. ArB. Cupr. Jod.
Mez. Plumb. Verat.
- wateriSh, Arg. Ara. Bell. Cowt. Cinch.
Cupr. Cure. Hyoae. Kram. Mgn. r.
Sil. Stann. Stram. Sulph.ac. Tab.
- of worms, Aeon. Artem. &bed. See.
- yellowish, Jod. Oleand. Plumb.
- yellowish-green, Oleand. VerAt.
- in the morning, Bar. m. Dig. Dros.
Nux v. Sil. Sulph.
- in the afternoon, Sulph.
- in the evening, Anae. Bry. Phos.
Sulph.
- at night, Dry. Cauet. Dig. Dros. Ferr.
Hydr. Kram. Lye. Mur. ac. Nux v.
Phos. Pula. Sulph. Tber. Val. Vemt.
- after acids, Ferr.
- after beer, Ferr. Mez.
- after bread, Nitr.ac.
- in children, Cale. e. Hyosc.
- after a cold, Bell.
- with the cough, see Sec. 28.
- after drinking, Arn. Ar•. Bry. Coce.
Ipee. Sil. Sod. chi.
- - relieved, Cupr.
- in drunkards, Nttxv. Op.
- after exercise, Coleh. Stram. Tab.
Ther. Ztne.
- when shutting the eyes, Ther.
- after meals, Amm. c. Anae. Ant. tart.
Ars. Calc. c. Dig. Dros. Ferr. Hyose.
Jod. Mgn.e. NuxlJ. Phos. Pul1. Sep.
Sil. Stann. Verat.
- after milk used, Aeth. Samb. Spong.
- after mother's milk, Sil.
- in prerant women, Con. Ipec.
Sod.eh.
- from ridin~ in a •ehicle, Cocc.
- after smokmg tobacco, Ipec.
- after stooping, Ipec.
- in teething children, Calc. c.
Vomiting, attended by:
- abdominal cramps, Cupr.
- - pain, Ant. tart. Ars. A811r. BJII}'.
Graph. Hell. Hyosc. Plumb.Stnun.
- after-taste, bitter, Pul8.
- - sour, Anae.
- agitation of the blood, Verat.
-anxiety, Ant. s. Ars. Asar. Bar. m.
Sen.
Digitized by Coogle
18. Eructation, &c.-19. Dis'*dersin the scrobiculus, &c. 529
Vol iting allended by:
- chilLS, Ant. tart. VaL
- breath. offen ive, Ipec.
- convulsion Oupr. Op.
- countenance, pale, Ant. tart.
..- diarrhrea, Acth. Ant. s. Ant. tart. An.
Asar. BelL Oupr. Cure. Jamb. Ipec.
Phos. en. tram. Verat.
- eructation, Camt. Mur.ac.
- face, weat on, Camph. Sulph.
- feet, coldness and numbness, Phos.
- giddiness, Hyosc. Sod.s. Ther.
- hands, coldness, Phos. Verat.
- - heat, Verat.
- - numbness, Phos.
- headache, Asar. (comp. Sec. 7.)
- heat, Ipec. Lam. Verat.
- biccoughing, Dry.
- to lie down necessity, Verat.
- nausea, Dig. Graph. Lam. Mur. ac.
Nux v. Sulph. Verat. Zinc.
- nose, obstructed, Grat.
- perspiration, lpee.
- - cold, Campb.
- relaxation, Lam.
- scratching and burn. in the thr., Arg.
- scrobiculus, pain in, Dig. Verat.
- shuddering, Verat.
• ._ sight, obscuration, Lam.
- sleepiness, Ant. tart.
- stomach, pain in, Ant. tart. Ars. Cupr.
Op. Phos. Plumb. (comp. Sec. 19.)
- thir t, Ipec.
- tremor, Ant. tart.
- weakness, Ars. Ipee. Lam. Phos.
Pot. c. Verat.
Vomiturition ( Brechwurgen), in gen.,
Aeon. Ant. tart. Arg. Arn. Ars. Bar. m.
Bry. Cann. Cinch. Dig. Graph. Hyosc.
Mgn. c. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Scill. Sec.
Sen. Sit. Stann. Tereb. Viol. tric. Zinc.
- convulsive, Dig.
- empty (with ineffectual efforts), Am.
Asar. Bell. Bry. Cinch. I pee. Nux. v.
Op. Plumb. Tigl.
V..,urilion , .Tellemeat ,. Ant. Atar.
Dig.
- in the evexamS! Pot.~.
- .at night, Arn. .Kr.a. Rau. sc.
-in drunkards, Nuzv.
- after meals, Ciocb. Mga.e.
- aUended by: belly-ache, Hyosc.
- fore-head, perspiration on, Ant. tart.
- increase ofall the complainls, Asar.
- languor, Ant. tart.
- salivation, Ant. tart.
- scrobiculus, pain, Arn.
Wambling (Wabblichkeit, Weichlich-
keit), see under "nausea."
Water, collection of, see saliva, Sec. 14.
Water-brash, (Black water, Pvrosis,
Wiirmerbeseigen, Wasserkulk, an.
affection of the Pancreas, which is
attended by an efflux of water from
the mouth with choking and pain at
the stomach.) Amm. m. Anac. Dry.
Calc. c. Carb. a. Carb. v. Caust. Cyc.
Dros. Graph. Led. Lye. Nux v. Petr.
Phos. Pot. jod. Rhod. Sil. Sod. chl.
Sod. s. Staph. SulT!h. Verat.
- in the morning, Sulph.
- in the evening, Anac. Cyc. Sod. s.
- at night, Carb. v. Graph.
- after acids, Phos.
- chronic, Sil.
- after meals, Amm. m. Calc. c. Sil.
Sulph.
- after milk, Cupr.
- every other day, Lye.
- with anxiety, heat, tremor, Euph.
- - belly-ache, Sulpb.
- - colic, Led.
- - nausea, Cyc.
- - shuddering, Sil.
- - stomach, pain in, Sil. Sod. chi.
- - throwing up a bitter ftuid, Lye.
- - vomiting, Anac. Sil. Sod. chi.
19. Disorders m the scrobiculus (pit of the stomach)
and stomach.
(Abbrniatioru: ser.=ecrobiculns, st.=a&oiiUICb, p.=pain.)
Acl.\uion. seDB. ofin the scr., Calc. B.
Aft.ftety in the IICr. and st., Ars. Oaxth.
Cham. Cic. Cocc. Coti Cupr. Cure.
Guaj. Laur. Mar. PtZon. Plumb. Sec.
Stram. Thuy.
Atony, of the 11t., Bell.
Biting, sena. in the st., Mosch. Stram.
Bori~, sens. in lhe st., Sod.s.
lltwni"'f, IICr., Aeon. Amb. Amm. m.
Ant. s. Arg. Ars. Bell Br):. O•ps.
Case. Dig. Eupb. Hydr. Laur. Nux v.
Phos. Plat. Ran.b. Ran.sc. Sec. Sep.
Sil. Sulpb. Verat. .
Buming,stom., Amb. Amm.m.Ars.Asea.
Berb. Bry. Oalad. Camph. Canth.
Caps. Car6. v. Chel. Cic. Colch. Croc.
Cure. Dig. Dulc. Euph. Graph. Hell.
Hydr.chl.corr. Hyosc. lgJi. Joel. Kram.
.Laur. M•ng. Mez. Mill. Moscb. Myr.
Nuxv. 01. Par. Phell. Pho.. Plumb.
45
Digitized by Coogle
19. Scrobicwus and stomach.
Pot. c. Pot. nilr. Rut. Sabad. S!Ul8.
Sec. Sen. Sep. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab.
Tereb. Zinc.
Burning, stom., with vomiting, Bar. m.
Cancer of the stomach, Ars. Con. Lye.
Nuxv. (Plat.) Vernt.
Chilliness, scr., Bell.
Choking, in the st., Nuxv.
Cold in the st., see Sec. 16.
Coldness, sens. of, scr., Laur. Phos.
- stomach, Bov. Caps. Chel. Colch. Lact.
Laur. Mgn. s. 01. Phos. Pot. nitr.
Sabad. Sulph. ac. Tab.
- - in the morning, Mgn. s.
Concussive p., scr., when stepping out
Anac. Mgn.m.
- stomach, Case.
Constriction, of the cardia, Bry. Phos.
Conslringing p., st., Alum. Guaj. Kram.
01. Op. Plumb. Ran. sc. Sass.
Contracttng sene., scr., Cast. Plat. Rhoo.
Sulph. ac.
- p. in st., Aeon. Assa. Calc. c. Carb. a.
Carb. v. 9hel. Con. Eup~. Lye. Mgn.c.
Men. Mill. Mur. ac. N1tr. ac. Nuxv.
Plat. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Rhm. Rbod.
Sep. Spong. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab.
Cramp in the st., Aman. Amm.c. Ant.s.
Assa. Bell. Bism. Bry. Calc. c. Cann.
Carb. a. Oarb. v. Caust. Cham. Chel.
Cinch. Cocc. Cqff. Con. Cupr. Dig.
Euph. Ferr. Graph. Hyosc. Lye.
Mgn. c. Mill. Myr. Nitr. ac. Nux v.
Petr. Plumb. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Puls.
Sec. Sen. Sep. Stann. Sod. c. &d. chl.
Sulph. Tab. Thuy. Verat.
- chronic, Bell. Cinch. Stann.
- periodical, Hyosc.
- in the morning, Puis.
- in the evening, incr. Thuy.
- at night, Calc. c. Pot. c. Sen. Sulph.
- in coffee-drinkers, Cham. Nuxv.
- after drinking, see Sec. 17.
- after loss ofjuice, Cinch.
- after meals, see Sec. 17.
- by splenPticdisorders occasioned,Bry.
- by vomiting relieved, Hyosc.
-from wine, see Sec. 17.
- with countenance, pale; Cann.
- with digestion, wea\, Myr.
- with eructation, bitter, Stann.
- with flatulency, Carb. v.
- with nausea, &d. chl. Tab.
- with perspiration, Cann.
- with pulse, weak, Cann.
- with vomiting, Calc. c. PoLe. PuU.
Cramping p., at., Ant. a. Arn. Ani. Joel.
(comp. 8p88modic.)
Cutting p., acr., AnL a. CaWt Calc. c.
Cann. Kram. Nice.
Outtingp.,at.,Ang. Cann. Kram.Piumlr.
Sod. c. Sulph. ae.
Distmtion, scr., BeU. Calc. c. Calc.'· Cic.
Hell. Nux v. Op.
- at., Caps. Con. Hell. Lye. Kram. Myr.
Nuxv. Op. Sabin.
- ·- during and after meals &c., see
Sec. 17.
DratDing aens. in the st.,Amm. m. Mang.
Sod. c.
Et~tptine11, aens. of, st., Ant. a. Ant. tarL
Calad. lgn. Mar. Mur. ac. Nil:c.
Oleand. Petr. PheU. Pot. joel. Sen.
Senn. Sep. Vernt. Verb.
- with sens. offuln888 in the abdomen,
Olesnd.
E~tenrion, aens. of, scr., ~·
Faintwh p., sL, Laur. Pot. nttr. (comp.
weakriess.) ·
FIGbbine~1, at., Euph. Ipec. Spong. Tab.
Thea.
Fretting, at., Jod. Nux v.
Fulne~•, sens. of, scr. and at., Arn. Aa!a.
Bar. c. Bov. Canth. Carb. v. Case.
Ctut. Cham. Cocc. Cyc. Dig. Grill.
HeU. Lye. MMCh. Myr. PlwB. Pot. c.
Ran. sc. RAm. Sabin. Sod. c. &fl. '·
Staph. Sulph. Sulph. ac. TWl.
-oppressing breath, Myr. Sod.s. _
- after meala, see Sec.l7.
- in the morning the most, Ran. 110.
- in the evening in bed, Sod. s.
Gangr-, sL, Secal.
Gatritw, see inftamtnation.
ChttltDing, in the st., Amm. m. Calad.
Chel. Jod. Pot. nitr. Rut. ·
Grruping, p., scr., Caust. Sod. chi.
- st., Carb. a. Caust. Euph. Graph.
Phos. sa. Stann. .
Grubbing, scr., Am. Phoe. S.bad. 8ulph.
- st., Grat. Pot. c. Staph.
Gurgling, st., Anac. Pot.joel.
Heal, scr., Pbos.
- at., Camph. Hydr.sulph. rub. Kram.
Mang. Mez. Phos. SUs.
Herpetic eruption in the scr., Ars.
Hunger, aens. of, see Sec. 16.
Jerkl, scr., Nux v. Plat. Sod. e.
Induration, st., Ars. Nux v.
hvftllionofthesL,Caps. Coli. Hell. Kram.
Lye. M,r. Nu:n. Op. &bin.
l'lflammtllum, st., Aeon. Ant.s. Ar•. Asaa.
' Bar. c. Brv. CampA. Conth. Cure.
Euph. Helf. Hyosc. Jod. IIN'Co Laur.
Mez. Nuxv. Phos. Plumb. Pot. nitr.
Ran. b. Ran. sc. &bad. SciU. &c.
Stram. Tereb. Verat.
- fundus of the at., Bar. m.
Jumping, sens. in the st., Oroc.
Languor, see weakness.
Like something living in the at. eena.,
Croc.
Digitized by Coogle
· ·- · -~'
f9. 3crobiculus and stomach. 581
~. 8811& of, Bt., Cut.
Of1P!'euima, in the eer., BelL Dry. Coce.
Cott Mar. M01eA. Plot. Sabed. See.
Ptrinfulnell of the region of the ser. and
stomaeh:
- when prei!II8Cl upon, Calc. e. Nux v.
01. Sil. &d. clal.
- when stepping out, Bar. e.
- when talking, Sod. ebL
-when touched, Ant. s. Bry. OJicl.
Coloo. H)'OIC. Lye. Nux v. Phos.
Sod.e. &d. clal. Sulph.
Ptrim, velaemmt, in eer. and st., Ars.Aur.
Cupr. HeU. Jol. Ipee. Phos. Plumb.
Ran. b. Ran.ee. Sec. Stann. Verat.
Periodical p., at., Hyoee. Ign. Lye.
Pinching, nipping, eer., (.,"ale. e. Cann.
Cocc. Ipec.
- et., Arn. Aaar. Calc. e. Cann. Plat.
Pot. e. Pula.
In pre~nt women, lit. p., Pula.
Prunng p., eer., Coff.
Prenure, eer., Accm. Aman. Amm. e.
Anac. Ant. tart. Arg. Ana.Aaar. Bar.e.
BeU.IJcnr. Calc.s. Cann. Cauet. Cinch.
O.pr. ()qc. Dig. HelL Hydr. lgn.
Mang. Mar. Nuxv. OL P-. Plat.
Plumb. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Pull. Ran. b.
Ran. 6C. Rhotl. Sus. Sep. &d. chl.
Sod. nitr. Sttm11. Staph. Tereb. Thuy.
Val. Verat. Zinc.
-st., Accm. Alum. Amma. Amb. AntiC.
Ant. tart. Ars. Aear. A66a. B•r. c.
Bar. m. BeU. Berb. Biftn. Bry. Calad.
Calc. c. Calc. •· Cann. Cantb. CtJrb. a.
Carb. v. ea.c.Caullt. Cic. Cinch. Coff.
Con. Dig. Dulc. Ferr. Graph. Grat.
Hydr. Jod. Loct. LtJur. Led. Lye.
Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mez. Mo6Ch. Nwc. v.
01. Op. Par. Petr. Pho6. Plat. Plumb.
Pot. jod. Rhm. R.htHl. Rut. &bin.
Samb. &ill. Sec. Sen. Sep. SU. &d. c.
!Jol. chl. 8tan11. Stram. Stroat.Sulph.
Sulpb. ac. Tab. Tereb. Thea. Tox.
Verb. Zinc.
Pres.ure, u from a weight, eer., Accm.
Cham. Grat. Spig. Spong.
- - Bt., Aeon. Arn. Bry. Carb. a. Clw.m.
Par. Phos. ac. SeiU. Sep. Spig.
Staph. Tox.
Prenure on the stomach,from the elotha,
Amm. c. Bry. Calc. a. Cott Lye.Nuxv.
Spong. (eomp. See. 20.)
PulHtion, m the eer., Ant. tart. Assa.
Jod. Oleand. PW.. (eomp. throbbing.)
.RGffing, eer., Caust.
- at., Am. Calc. c. Carb. •· Caust. Coce.
Euph.Grapb. Nuz". Pula. &lpl.ac.
Tab.
Red !'}M>t8 in the eer., Sod. chL
Rendang, eer., AetA. Rut•.Zinc.
Restlusness, st., Canth.
Retraction, ser., Calad. Dule.
- sens. of, Dig. Hell. Mur. ac.
Rolling, rumbling, st., Carb. a. Croc
Laur. Mar. Men. Thea. Verb.
Shuddering, ser., Bell.
Soreness, ser., Alum.Mang.Ran.b.Ran.sc.
- st., Ang. Bar. c. Cinch. Colch. Con.
Mosch. Sabad.
Spasmodic, p., ser., Ang. Chel. Zinc.
- st., Bar. m. Calc. c. Cocc. Dulc. Ferr.
Stinging, ser., Ant. tart. Arn. Aur. Bry.
Calad. Caps. Caust. Chel. Dros. Nitr.
ac. Plumb. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Puis.
Ran. se. Rhm. Rhod. Rut. Sabin.
Samb. Sep. Spig. Staph. Sulph. 7'ab.
Zinc.
- st., Bry. Chel. Coff. Ign. Plat. Pot. c.
Pot. nitr. Sep. Sulph.
In suckling women, st. p., Carb. v.
As from ll surcharged st., p., Ant. s. Ant.
tart. Cyc. Rhm.
Swelling, scr., Aeon. Aur. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Lye. Petr. Sod. cbl. Sulph.
- sens. of, ser. Bry.
Tenderness (Empfi.ndlichkeit), scrobicu-
lus, Amm.c. Bar.c. Carb. v. Verat.
- st., Ant. tart. Canth. Colch. Mgn. rn.
Nux v. 01. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tereb.
Verat.
- scr. and st., to pressure ext., Bry.
Calc. c. Lach. Nux v. 01. Sil. Sod. chl.
- to talking, Sod. c.
- to the touch, Ant. s. Bry. Colch. Coloc.
Hyose. Lye. Nuxv. Phos. Sod. c. Sod.
chl. Sulph. Tereb.
Tension, scr., Aeon.Cham. Ran.se. Stann.
- st., Aeon. .Assa. Bry. Carb. v. Hydr.
Mgn. m. Pot. c.
Throbbing, ser., Aeon. Ant. tart. Calad.
Chel. Cic. Dros. O!eand. Plat. Pot. c.
Rhm. Sep. Thuy. Tox. (comp. pul•
sation.)
Tingling, ser., Puls.
- st., Colch. Tox.
Turning sens. in the st., 01. Pot. nitr.
Ulcerous pain, scr., Cast. Hell. Sod. chi.
- st., Cann. Kram. Mgn. m. Stann.
Uneasiness in the st., Grat. Phos. Sabad.
Tigl. Zinc.
- as after ll vehement disease, Mur. llC.
Wambling in the st., Ant. tart. Croc. EP..
Lye. Mar. Moseh. Pot.jod. Sabad. S1l.
Thea. Verat.
- before meals, Sulph.
Warmth, sens. of, ser., Bry. Sabad.
- st., Case. Myr.
- - rising- to the chestand head, Bar.m.
As if full w1th water, sens. st., Phell.
Weakness, sens. of, ser., Croc. Pot. nitr.
- st., Bar. rn. Dig. Ign. Petr. (comp.
flabbiness.)
Digitized by Coogle
532 19. Scrobiculus and stomach. - ~: Hypochondres, Sec.
Weight, sens. of, eee presaure ail from
a weight;
Winding, twilting, sens. in tM stomach,
Sod.chL ·
In the morning, pain in the scr. IUld st.,
Aaac. CiDOb. Mgn. e. Phoe. Pule. Sod.
chL Sqlph.
In the tt7~$'• p. st., Alum. Carb.a. Lye.
Sep. Sulph.ac. Thuy.
At night, pain In the l!llr. and st., Are.
Calc.c. Graph. Ign. Pot.c. Puis. Rhod.
Sen. Sep. Sulph. Tox.
By be~~armth, rei. p. st., Graph. Lye.
By benduag together, p. rei., CbRm.
From bretid, eee &>.c. 17.
When breathing~·
. . __·. .r., Caps.
AtW!r a cold, p. st, . Lye. Sulpb.ac.
By cold drinking, ' el, Phos.
After drink~, . . 17.
Itt·flrinhin,t(, mer.J.. Am.
....:. p. rel. lfhoe.
FI'Om driftki"S"•qatckly, p. st., Sil.
By eating, p. mer.; Arn.
- 1'· rei., Chel. .
By ~ation, rei. p. st., Kram.
When extreUing, p. scr., Ang. Dry.
- p. et., Bry. Cann.
From the lo6s ofjuice, p. .lt., Cinch.
By lying down, rel. p. st., Caust. Graph.
(oomP.. rest.)
When lying on the 1lide, p. st., 'Bry.
When pressed u~n, p., ecr. and st., Bry.
LaM. Nuxv. Ol. &bad. 8il. &d.cAl.
- incr. p., Aeon. Ign. Ran. ec. Samb.
By rest, p. rel., Cham. (eomp.Jving.)
From speaking, p. scr., Cap& Sod. c.
When stepping false, p. scr., Bry. Pula.
When stepping out, p. scr., Auao. Bry.
Hell. M~n. rn.
In lifting, mer. p., Calc. s. Puis.
From stooping, p. let'., Alum.
When stretching, p. scr., Amm. e.
In BUCkling women, p. st., Carb. ,.,
When Bf.Dallowing foOd, pain st., Bar.-o.
Nitl'. ac. Sep.
From the touc1a, p. scr.,.Aur. Bar.e. Bry.
· Caps..c.loc. Hyoee. Lye. Nux,..Petr.
Phalli. Ran. b. Sod. c. Sod.ehl. Stann.
Sulpb,. Thuy.
- - mer., Aro. Cupr.
- st., Ant. e. Canth. Colch. Nuxv. PhN.
Pboe. ac. Sod.e. SulJ)b. Tereb.
By vomiting_, rei. p. st., Hyosc. ·
When toalki~; p. ecr., BeJl. 8ep.
- st., Calc. e.
.After tDUlltifl6, p. eer., CaJed.
From v.aine, eee .Se.o. 17.
From wrong ltfling, p. st., Dry. Tox.
Paias or ditorilerr att~ by:
Anlriety, Bov. Op. Rau. se. Sabad.
Bili'ou. ejecdoDS,l. st_. Jod.
ChiUineas, p. st., y.c.
Countenance, pale, p. st., Cann.
DearlMH efU.e.hatids, p. st., Lye.
Despair, p. scr., Ant. e.
Diarrhel, p. at., Stann•
Eructation, bitter, p. st., Stann.
To eructate, incl., GrtJt. .
Heaiaehe, p. st., Bov.
Heat in the head, p. st., Cauat.
Jh.nger, p. st., VertJt. . .
.Nousea, pain st., Almn. c. Calad. GrtJt.
Lact. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Ma~. Sec.
&tl. clll. Stann. Tab. Tigl.
Peevillhness, p. st., Bry.
Perspiration, p. st., C8.nn.
.Perspiration, impeded, pain, stomach,
Cham. CheJ. Oocc. Dulc. Guaj. Hell.
Myr. Phos. Rhad. Bod. e. Spig. Stram.
Tox.
Restle1mus, p. st., ManA'.
Shuddering, p. st., Cau•t.
To commit..aic:ide, incL, Ant. e.
Tate, bitter, p. st., Lye.
Thirst, Vemt.
Vomiting, paiD st., Calc. c. Graph. Phoe.
Pot. c. Puis. (comp. Sec. 18.)
- olwhat baa been eaten, a.le.e. Phos.
Pols.
Weakness, Sabad. Sod. ebl
20. Affection and disorders of the hypocbondres, kidneys,
·· diaphragm, liver and sp)een.
(A.~rtons: byp.=bypocbondres; kid.=kidneys; dia.=diapbragm;
. , . lil'.=li'fel'; sp.=spleen.) ,
Anziet~, b~p., Cham. PbOii. ae. s..,h. Breath, obstructing p., hyp., lp. P•t. e.
Like a IJMI4age ~ u~ hyp. ae.ation, su.pb. .
Coo. Lfe. . · . ·· - sp., Amm.m. Am. ·
As if beaten, p., byp., C.&. v, Ceoc, Cupr. Burning, dia., Assa.
Ran. b. · - hyp., Acoo.'Tong. .
- .iv., Cub. v. Clem. -.kid., BeU. ~ale. a. Tereb.
- sp., &.. · - liver, Aeon. Amm. e. Bry. x.,..ec.
s.ritag, hyp., Sen. Sep. Pot. c. Stann. Sulflh. Tereh.
- liv., Amm. e. - sp., Bell. . . ,
Digitized by Coogle
- -
- - __
_._.._,___.,:. . - · _ ., - -~· ~ . 11. ....----._. -~ · · o...o:;J.--..
20. Affection and disorders of the hypochondres, &-c. 5$3
Colic, kid., Myr.
Onnprurion, dia., Op.
Corutriction, Allar. Nu:n.
- hyp., Aeon. Con. Dig.
Contraction, dia., Asar. Mez.
- h)'P., Noxv.
-kid., Clem..
- liv., Canth.
Crtmtp, dia., 8tann.
CuttiJaK p., hyp., Ang. Nice. Tong.
-kid., Clem.
- liv., Ang. Carb. a.
- ep., Verb.
Diaphragmatitu, see inftammation.
Dtiiwtlers in general, kid., Coec. Colch.
Nw: v. Plumb.
- sp.,Plumb.
Di6tention, hyp., Ign.
- liv., Sil.
~ sp., Jod.
Drawing, hyp., Berb. Calc. e. Mar. Puis.
- kid., Tereb.
- liv., Bry. Con. Sabad. Sod. chi.
- sp., Cupr.
Dull p., liv., Hyoec.
Fulness, sens. of, hyp., Cham. Ign.
Gnawing, liv., Rut.
Grubbing p., hyp., A!lliiL Sen.
- liv., Sabad. .
Hardness, hyp., Bry. Sod. bor.
- liv., Ars. Calc.c. Cann. Cinch.Graph.
Hydr. Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Nux v.
Sil.
- sp., Agn. Ars. Cinch. Jod.
Heauine11, sens. of, hyp., My,..
- liv., Ars. Phos.ac. Pot.c. Tab.
- sp., Sulph.
Hepatitis, see inflammation.
Jerk~, hyp., Derb. Nuxv. Stann.
- k1d., Ran. sc.
- Iiv., Croc. Val.
Induration, liver, Ars. Calc. c. Cinch.
Graph. Hydr. Lye. Mgn. m. Nux v.
(comp. hardness.)
- - after misuse ofcinchona, (bark.)
Nux v.
- spl., Agn. Cinch.
Inflammation, diaph., Aeon. Bry. Cham.
Oocc. Hyos. Nuxv. Puis.
- kid., Aeon. Bell. Calc. s. Cann. Canth.
Coce. Colch. Hydr. Sulph. Tbuy.
- liv., Aeon. Dell. Bry. Canth. Cham.
Cinch. Cocc. Hydr. Lt,e.•lllgn. mur.
Nux v. Sec. Sep. Soo. c. Sod. cht.
Sulph.
- - chrdme, Lye. Mgn. mur. Nuxv.
Sod. e. Sod. chi. Sulph.
- spl., Cinch.
Liver-grown, in children(Verfungen, An-
gewachsen-eein), Cham.
Like a lump in the liv., Tab.
- "P·• Sulph.
M'~ eruption in the region ofthe liv.,
Set.
Nephritil, see inflammation. ·
Obstruction (Venrtopfung), liver, Cinch.
Myr.
- ap., Cinch. Myr.
Oppression, h1Jl·• Nux v.
Pairiful~•, m gen., byp., Bell. Cincb.
Sod. c. Sulpb.
- kid., Alum. Gmn. Coec.Coleb. Nw: •·
Plumb.
- liv., Aeth. Amb. Sod. s.
- sp., Sod. cbl.
/!inching, hyp., Ipec.
- liv., Lye. Sod. chi.
Presling p., dia., Viol. tric.
- hyp., Aeon. Berb. CIUIC. Mang. Mur.
ac. Phos. ac. Rhocl. &d. &or. 'I'igl.
Verat. Zinc. .··
- kid., Pot. c. Ran. ac. Tereb. 1'Auy.
Zinc.
- liver, Aeon. Agn. Amb. Anac. Arn.
Al8a. Cnlc. c. Carb. a. Carb. v. Cinch.
Cocc. Con. Lye. Mgn.m. Nw:v. OL
Pbos. Phos. ac. Plumb. Pot. c. Ran.
sc. Rut. Sabad. Sabin. Sep. Stann.
Sulph. Tab. Tereb. Thuy. Zinc.
- sp., Nitr. ac. 01. Sod. bor. Stann. .
Preuure from the cloths round the hyp.,
Calc. c. Carb. v. Caust. Nw:v. (eomp.
Sec. 19.)
Pullation, sp., Ran. b.
Rending, hyp., Mar.
- kid., Canth.
-liv., Con.
Scraping (Scba~n
liv., Sabad.
Sensele8snell, sp. ·
Soreness, hyp., urn. Sulph.
- kid., Zinc.
- liv., Aeon. Carb. a. Lye.
- sp.,Ran.
Spa~motlk p., dia., Lye. Sod.chi. ·
- hyp., Mur. ac. Pho1. ac. Rhod. Stann.
Zmc.
- liv., Phos. ac. Zinc.
- sp.;Stann.
Splenitis, see inflammation. , .
Stinging, dia., Spig. Viol. trie.
- hyp., Aur. Aeth. Assa. Berb. Carb.v.
Graph. Kram. Pot.c. Puis. Rhod. Sep.
Sit.
- kid., Aeon. Aeth. Bell. Calc. s. Omth.
Cinch. Dig. Phos. ac. Pot.c. Pot. nitr.
Ran.sc. Val. Zinc.
..._ liv., Aeon. Aman. Amm. c. Asar. Bry.
Calc. c. Calc.s. Canth. Carb. v. Caust.
Cinch. Cocc. Con. Hydr. Lye. Mgn.c.
Mgn. mur. Nu:r: v. Ol. Phos. Plumb.
Pot. c. Ran. b. Ran. 1c. Sep. Sod. c.
Sod. chl. Sod.'· Sulph. Sulpli. ac. Tab.
Zinc. ·
· - spleen, Aruan. Amm. m. Arn. Calc. s.
Digitized by Coogle
5U 20. Hypochondres, &c.- 21. Abdomen, groin, flatulency.
Carb. v. Cinch. Con. Mgn. s. Ol. Pot.
nitr. Ran. sc. Rhod. Sass. Sel. Sep.
Sil. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Sod. s. Stann.
Sulph. ac. Tab. Verb. Zinc.
Swelling, hyp., Aeon. Aur. Bry.
- liv., Bar.m. Cann. Cinch. Myr.Nuxv.
- - after misuse of cinchona, Nux v.
- sp., Agn. Caps. Jod.
Tension, hy-p., Aeon. Calc. c. Case. Cham.
Con. D1g. Graph. Lye. Mur. ac. Puis.
Sep. Staph. Verat.
- liv., Dry. Calc. c. Carb. v. Caust. Lye.
Mgn. m. Nux v. Sod. chl Sod. s. Suiph.
- sp., Nitr. ac. Rhod.
Throbbing, hyp., Aeon. Graph.
- kid., Canth.
- liv., Nux v. Sep. Sod. s.
- sp., Grat. Ran. b. Rut.
Tumefaction, see swelling.
Turit_ching, hyp., Puis.
- kid., Canth.
When coughing,liv., Bry. Cocc.
When e:eerciling, p. byp., lilep.
- - sp., Ran. b.
- incr. p. hyp., Zinc.
- - liv., Ang. Nux v.
When impiring, see breathing.
When lying on the right side, p. liver,
Mgn.m.
During and after mealf, see Sec. 17.
In pregnant women, p. hyp., Puls.
When pre81ed upon, p. hyp., Aeon.
- liv., Sabad. Sel. Tab.
When riding in a vehicle, pain hyp.,
Sod.bor. .
- liv., Sep.
- sp., Sod, bor.
When Bitting down, p. kid., Val
In Bitting, p.liv., Amm.c.
- p. incr., hyp., Puis.
When stooping, p. dia., Lye. Sod. c.
- hyp., Alum.
Ulcerous p., hyp., Puls.
Warmth, sens. of, liv., Sabad.
- liv., Alum. Clem. Lye. Pot. c.
- - sp., Rhod.
When touched, p. hyp., Aur. Cupr. Droa.
In the moming p., byp., Staph.
- liv., Bry.
- spl., Amm. m.
In the evening p., sp., Mgn. s.
When bending the body, p. kid., Cinch.
- liv., increased, Cocc.
After breakfast, p. liv., Graph.
When breathing, p. hyp., Assa.
- liv., Bry. Sel.
- sp.,Aman.
When breathing deep, increased p. hyp.,
Ran.sc.
When coughing, p. hyp., Dros.
Ran. b.
- liv.,Aeth. Aman..Bry.Carb.a. Cinch.
Clem. Mgn.m. Nuxv. Sod.s. Val
In walking, p. hyp., Zinc.
- kid., Clem.
- liv., Calc. s. Mgo. m. Sod. s.
- sp., Arn. Rhod. Sel.
With giddine11, p. hyp., qalc. c.
With necessity to lie down, p.liv.,Graph.
With obscuration of light, pain hyp..
Calc. c.
With vomiting, p.liv., Bry.
21. Affections of the abdomen and groin,
.flatulency included.
(Abhrmations: abd. =abdomen; int. =abdominal integuments; nav. =navel;
epig.=epigast~um; h.Y~· =hyJ?OSBStri~; sid.=sid~ of the abdomen;
mg.=mguinal reg~on or grom; p. =pam.)
Adhuioll, sens. of(Festsitzen), in hypog., As ifbeaten, sid., Ang.
Sep. - - right, Ang. Camph.
An:eiety, abd., Ar1. Arum. Big belly, see Tumidness.
.bcitu, abdominalis, Aeon. Agn. Ar1. Bloatedne11, see Distention.
Bry. Canth. Cinch. Colch. Dig. Dulc. Blood, congestion to the abd., Hydr.
Hell. Hydr. Led. Lye. Pot. c. Scill. - stagnation in the abd., Bell. Bry. Dig.
Sep. Sulph. Nu:e v. Puis. Sulph.
- aaccatus, Cann. Cinch. Borborygmus, see Flatulency, noise of.
- from glandular affections, Hydr. Borin(!, sens. in the abd., Sabad. Sen.
Betllf'ing aown (Driogen), ing., Calc. c. - ep1g., Sen.
Cham. Mgo.s. Pot.jod. - hypog., Sabad.
- sid., Phos. , - sid., Par.
Aa if beaten (Zerschlagenheitss.chmerz), Brownish spotA on the abel. Sep.
p. abd., Calc. s. Cann. Cocc. Led. Ran. Bruiting, p. sid., Am. .
Rut. Samb. Sep. Sod.s. Stram. Verat. Burning, on the abd. externally, Sel.
- hypog. and ing., Val. - in the abdomen, Ars. Bar.m. Camph.
- int., Plumb. Sab. Val. · Canth. Colch. Cop. Euph. E~phr.
Digitized by Coogle
2f. Abdomen, groin, flatulency.
Kram. Ltnw. Mu. NWt v. Phoe.
Plumb..Rma.6. &W. Sue. Sec. &p.
SiL Sod. s. Stann. Tox. Vercrt.
Brmaing, epig., C.W. c.mph. Canth.
CluJm. -;;
- ~ypog., Camph. Phoe. ae.
- mg., Sod. a. , , ·
- int., Berb.
- nav., Aeon. Pot.jaiL 8ep.
- sid., Kram.
As ifit should burlt, p. abel., 8ep. Val.
As if the catamenia would bre&k forth,
p. abd., Artem. Croo. Lam. Mgn. e.
Moseh. Mur. ac. Stann. .
CAilline11, on the abd., Par;
- in the abd., in the evening, Ar1.
Clucking, in the abd., Hell. Phoe. ac.
To take cold, in the abd., liability, Caust.
Nitr.ae.
Coldnu1, sena. of, in the abdomen, .
. ..
Alsa. Calc. e. Camph. Hell. ·Leur:·
Men. PAell. Ph(ls. Plumb. ~ c.
Sabad. Sass. See. Senn. Sep. Taft.ae.
Tereb. Tigl.
- int., Amb. Tereb.
- nav., Kram.
- after drinking, see See. 17.
Colic, AI. Alum. A1ar•.Bov. Calc.e. Cann.
Carb. v. Colch. ColDc. Con. Cop. Croc.
Cupr. Euph. Ferr,Hyosc. Jod. Laur.
Mez. Mur. ac. Myr. Ntu: v. Phos.
Plumb. Pot. c. Ran. b. Sass. Sec. Senn.
Sil. Spig. Sulph. Verat.
- frQm ~-tipation, Sil.
- from fta~ency, see this article.
-from h~rrhoids, Sulph. Val.
- in tbe iftlneys, Myr.
Colica pictonum, or saturnina, Alum. Op.
Plat.
CoUap1ed abd., Eupb. .
Compre11ing p. in the abd., Amb.
- nav., Aeon.
- sid., left, Berb.
Conltringing sens. in the abd., Carb. a.
Coloc. Euph. Plat. Plumb. Sabad.
Thuy.
- hypog., Evon. Verb.
- nav., Plumb. Verb.
Contracting p. in the abd., Amm. e. Berb.
Calc. c. Calc.'· Caust. Coloc. Laur.
Lye. Mang. OJ. Phos. Sabin. Sass.
Sod. chi. Thuy.
Contraction of the abd., Plumb. Tox.
- ofthe abdominal muscles, Arg. Sabael.
- - in walking, Arg.
- hypog., Con. Tox.
- in the ing., Kram.
- in the nav., Phos.
Oramp in the abd., Amm. e. Are. Bell.
Bry. Calc. c. Calc.s. Camph. CAam.
CheL Cocc. Con. Cupr. Euph. Ferr.
Hyo1c. Ign. Jod•.Ipec. Lye. Mgtt. c.
Mgn.m. Mo1ch. Mur.ac. Nuz. il. Petr.
Phos. Pot. c. Puls. Sep. Spong. Stann.
Stram. Tox. Val. Verat.
-hypochondriac, Stann.
-hysteric,, Are.' Bell. Bry. Cocc. Ipee.
Mgn. m. Mo1ch. Nuxv. &ann. Stram.
Val.
- periodical, Ign.
- in irregular mena~ruation, Cocc.
- in parturient women, Oic.
- in pregnant women, Puis.
- with convulsions, Cupr. Sec.
- with leucorrham, discbargeof,Mgn.c.
MP..m.
- w1th shrieking, Cupr.
Cre~ing sene. in the abel., Dule.
Cuttmg, in the abd., Aeon. Alum. Aman.
Amb. Ant.'· Ant. tart. Arg. Arlf. Bar.c.
Bov. Bry. Calc. c. Calc.•· Cham. Chel.
Cic. Coloc. Con. Cyc. Dig. Hydr.
Hyosc. Laur. Led. Eye. Mgn. c. Mur.
ae. Myr. Nice. Nitr. ac. Nux v. 01.
Petr. Phos. Phos.ac. Plumb. Pot. nitr.
Puis. Ran. sc. Rhm. Sas.s. Sep. Sil.
Sod. chl. Stann. Staph. Stront. Sulph. .
Sulph.ac. Val. Verb. Viol. tric. Zinc.
Cutting, epig., Asar. Calc.c. Cham. Lye.
OJ. Tereb.
- h~pog., Arg. Evon. Laur. 01. Sep.
Sil. Tereb,.
- ing., Carb.a. Val.
- nav.,Al. Bov. Calad. Dulc.Ipee. Mang.
Mur. ac. Nux v. 01. Pot. jod. Sass.
Spig. Verb.
- sid., Arn. Mur. ac. Par. Rut.
Cutting in the abd. (as ifwith a knife),
Coloc. Sabad. Verat.
- nav., Ant. tart. Bov. Laur.
To despair driving, p. abd., Co.ff.
As if diarrhrea would follow, p., Aman.
Ang. Bar. c. Dig. Oleand. Sabin.
Distention (Anspannung) of the abd.,
AI. Bar. c. Bry. Calc. c. Carb.v.Graph.
Hyosc. Lye. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Mez.
Petr. Phos. ac. Rhm. See. Sil. Spong.
Stram.Stront. Sulph.(comp.Tension.)
- in children, SiL
- sens. of, abd., Sep. Val.
Dilftraction of the abel. muscles towards
the back, Sod. nitr.
Downwardl pressure towards the groin,
Mar.
Drawing in the abd., Aeon. Caps. Coce.
Led. Lye. Mgn.s. Nuxv. ScilL Sod.
chi. Staph. Verat.
- hypog., Cinch. VaL
- ing., OL Plat. Pot. c. Pot.jod. Thuy.
Val.
- int., Sen. Val.
- nav., Kram.
Digitized by Coogle
•
. I
21. Abdomen, groin, flatulency.
Drawin$", sid., Lye. Par. Sod. c.
- - ragbt, Campb.
'
Dropsy, see Ascites.
Dry belly-ache, westindian, Coloc.
Dy1enteric belly-ache, Led.
Emptinesa, sens. of, abd., Ant.s. Cocc.
Coloc. Eupb. Gunj. Hydr. Mur. ac.
Oleand. Saas. Sep. Stann.
EnteritiB, Aeon. Ant. s. Arn. Ars. Bar. m.
Bell. Bry. Canth. Cham. Cure. Hydr.
Hyosc. Ipee. Laur. Mez.Nuxv. Plumb.
Puls. Scill. Tereb. Tox. Verat.
Eruption on the abdomen, Sod. c.
E:xostoliB, Aur.
Femoral hernia, see hernia.
Flabbineas, in the abd., Phos. To~ (comp.
emptines~ and weakness.)
Flatulency, in gen.,
- accumulated, Ant. s. Ant. tart. Bar. c.
Cic. Graph. Nitr. ac. Nuxv. 01. Phos.
ac. Senn. Sod. c. Sod. nitr. Sod. s. Zinc.
- colic-like, Aeon. Amb. Amm. c. Anac.
A1sa. Aur. Bell. Caps. Carb. v. Case.
Cham. Cinch. Cocc. Colch. Euph.
Ferr. Grat. Jgn. Rlic. Ipec. Laur.
ilfez. Nu:xv. Phos. Puis. Sod.s. Verat.
Zinc.
- - hyp., Aeon. Chin. Phos. Sulph. ac.
- cutting, Con. Puis.
- drawing, Cinch.
- griping, Anac. Ant. tan. Aua. Aur.
Graph. Lam. Mar. Sod. s. Tox.
-obstructed, AI. Amb. Calc.c. Canth.
Carb. a. Cauat. Cinch. Graph. Guaj.
Jod. Lam. Lvc. Mar. Nitr.ac. Nux v.
Phell Phoa. Plumb. Pot. c. Pot. aitr.
Rhm. Rhod. Sil. Sod.c. Sod.chl. Stann.
Staph. Sulph.
- - with a hard stool, Cauat.
- painful in general, Am. PUZ.. Rbod.
Sod. c. Sod. 8.
- pinching, see griping.
- pm.ing, _Caac. Cinch. Nux v. Pula.
Rhm. &,d. nitr. Sulph.
- rieing up, Graph. Lye. Rhm. Sod.nitr.
Flatulency, squeezing, Mar. Carb.T.
- tightening,Cinch.Graph.Rbm. Rhod.
- urging, Plumb. Sen.
- - towards the groin, Calc.c.
- wandering about, Carb. v. 01. PheiL
PtM. Sod.c. Sod. a. Tox.
- in the mornin~, Calc. a. Nitr. ac.
- in the afternoon, Pot. nitr.
- in the e'Yening, Nitr. ac. PuU. Zinc.
-at night, Aeon. Amb. Aur. Carb. v.
Cocc. Ferr. Myr. Pula. Sod. chl.
..._ by bending forward rei., BeU.
- in children, Cham.
- by cough incr., Cocc.
- by erue~ion or discharge of wind
rei., Sod. nitr.
Flat~, by exercise incr., Sod. nitr.
- in byateric women, Colch. lp. Puis.
- in lying incr., Pboa.
- after oieals, see Sec. 17.
- by pl"888ure extern. reL, BeD.
Flatuleneg attended by:
..._ anxiety, Cie.
- bowel8, contrae&ed, Cineb.
- - protruded, Bell.
- breath, obstructed, Mes.
- chilliness, Mes.
- eructa&ion, GrGI. Rbod.
- nausea, Grat.
- peeviahn818, Cie.
Flatulency, a) duOMirKt of:
-cold, Con.
-difficult, Calc.a. Plat. Sil. Verat.
- frequent, Agn. Amma. Aur. Bry. c.ri.
veget. Catlllt. Cinch. IM,{. Graplt. Led.
Mang. Mar. Oletmd. 01. Phoa. acid.
Plumb. Put. c. Ran. b. Rbod. Sus.
Scill Sod. c. Sod. a. Staph. Stram.
Stront. Sulph. Tart.ao. VioL tric. Zinc.
- hot, Plumb. Staph. Zinc. .
- interrupted , small , Calad. Cauat.
Plumb. ·
-painful, Con. Graph. Pot.c. Puis.
- vehement, Verat.
- wanting, Lye. Pot. c. Sil. Sod. c.
Flatulency, b) noi6e of: (Borborygmus.)
- clucking (Giuckeru, kulkern), Hell.
Lye. Phoa. ac. .
- croakin~ (Quacken), Arg.
-fermenting (Gii.hren), Ang. Senn.
Stram. Tox.
- grumbling (Knurren ), Aeon. Anac.
Ant. '· Ant. tart. Aur. Biam. Bry.
Calc. c. Con. CtJc. Ferr. magn. Guaj.
Laur. Mur. ae. Nitr.ac.Oleanil. Plumb.
Rhod. SciU. Senn. Sep. Sil. SotJ. chl.
Spig. Spong. Strout. Sulph. Sulph. ac.
Tar. Tereb. Thuy. Verat. Zinc.
- grunting (Murksen), Sil. Sj>Ong.
- rolling, rumbling (Kollern, Polteru,
Rummeln), Aeon. Agn. Aman. Ang.
Ant. a. Ant. tart. Arg. Aur. Berb.
Biam. Bry. Calc. c. Ctzrb. a. Carb. v.
Cyc. Con.. Cop. Ferr. magn. Guaj.
Hell. Hydr. Ign. Laur. Lye. Mar. Mez.
Oleand. 01. Petr. Ph011. ac. Plumb.
Pot.jod. Pula. Rhod. 8a11. SciU. 8ep.
Sil. Sod. chi. Sod. a. Spig. Stram.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Tereb. Tbuy.
Tox. Verat. Zinc.
- - with drawing through the legs
down to the toea, Ferr. magn.
- in the hypoJ·• Aur. Cgc. Sil. Sulph. ac.
- in the evenmg, Pols. Spong.
Digitized by Coogle
21. Abdomen, groin, flatulency. 537
~. in the evening in bed, Bry.
- when'breathing deep, lieU.
- after eAting or drinking, see Sec. 17.
- when exercising, Sil
- in lying (morning), Spong.
- in eleep, Agn.
Flatulency, e) nncll of:
- like rotten eggs, Am. Ferr. JDagD.
Mar.
- garlic-like, Aman.
- fmtid, Alum. Aman. Am. Assa. Aur.
Bar. c. Bov. Carb. a. CaU8t. Cinch.
Graph. Grat. Hell Joel• .Mgn. c. OJ.
Petr. Plumb. Phoe. Puls. Ran.b. Rhod.
Rut. Sass. Senn. Sep. Sil. Sod. s.
8&4 Staph. Stront. Swpb. To.:r. Val.
- })1_1trid, Calad. Carb. v. Olean.d. Sod.c.
Zinc.
- sour, Sod. c.
Fulnea in &he abcf., Anae. Ant. •· Ant.
tart. Aaar. Campb. Carb. v. Cut.
Cinch. Colch. Con. Oroc. Grnph. Lye.
Mgn. e. Mur. ac. 'Nux v. 01. Puis.
Rhod. Sulpb. Verb.
- hypog., Aur. Ep.
- in the morning, Con.
- after meals, see Sec. 17.
GltJnJ., inguinal, affected:
- drawing in, Mez. Tbuy.
- hardne118, Clem.
- inflammation, Hydr. Sil.
- pain in. Ars. Calc. c. Gn:pb. Hydr.
Tereb. Tbuy.
- auppuration, Calc.•· Hydr. Nitr. ae.
- swtilling, Ars. Calc.c. Calc.t. Clem.
Dulc. Graph. Hydr. Jod.. Nitr. GC.
Phos. ac. Sil. Sod. e. Spong. StopA.
Stram. Sulpb. Tert>b. Tlvy.
-twitching, Clem. •
Gnaunng, abd., Calc. c. Dulc. Oleand.
Pial.
- hypog., Sen.
Globu$ hyttericv.l,Aeon. Mgn.m. Plumb.
Grruping (Greifen), in the abd., Bruc.
081'b. a. Coloc. Se~ Zinc.
- hypog., BeU. Lye. Puis.
- mg., Pot. joel.
-nav.,Stana.
Griping, abd. (Kneipen), Alum. Aman.
A11l11LM. Anac. Ant.tart. Art~A,..
Aur. Bar.c. Brue. B~Calc.e. Carb. v.
Cie. Coloc. Croe. e. Dig. Dule.
Evphr. Graph. Grat. uaj. HeU. H~dr.
Jp. Joel. Ipec. Kram. Lam. Lye.
!'fgn.e. Mar. Men. Nitr.IIC. 01. Petr.
Phell. Phos. Plumb. Ran. b. Ran. ac.
Sabin.Samb. Seill.Sil. 8od. ell. Sod...
8J»>[. Stann. Sulpb. &lph.cc. Tab.
TU. Tong. To.:r. Val. Verb. Zinc.
- .,pig., Cocc. .
- hypog., Aur. Rut. Sil. Tart.ao.
Grifting, ing., Kram.
- mt., Plllon. Samb.
- nav., AI. Dule. Mur.ac. Plat. Verb.
- sid., Ign. Kram. Lye. Mur. ac. Rut.
- - from left to right, Carb. v.
Grubbing (Wiiblen), abd., Bell. Rut.
Sabad. Sen. Sod. e. Spong. Stann.
Sulph. Tox. VaL
- epig. or hypog., 01. Sel.
- nav.,Con.
Hremcntana, see Blood, stagnation.
Hardneu of the abd., Anae. Arn. Ar1.
Cupr. Grat. Mgn. m. M_gn.s. Mez. ()p.
Phos. Plumb. Puis. ;sq. Sil. Spig.
Spong. Stram. Val.
- hypog., Graph. Sep.
- ing., Ant. s.
- ioteg., Sod.e.
- nav., Bry. Plumb. Tox.
- sid., right, Mgn. m.
- in children, Sil.
As if hard, pointed piel;es were moving
in confus., in the nbd. sens., Sod.bor.
Heat, abd., Camph. Laur. 1\lez. Nux v.
Phoa. Sass. Sil.
Heavineu, abd., Amb. Are. Assa. Carb. v.
Graph. HeU. Lye. Mgn.c. Mez.Nuxv.
Op. Pot. c. Sep. Sulph. Tereb. Tox.
- epig., Myr.
- hypog., Ep. Ferr.
- inJ·• Oroc. .
Hea~nneu, sens. of, after drinJUng, Assa.
-in walking, Ferr.
Hernia, femoral, Nw: 11.
- flatulent, see Pneumatocele.
- inguinal, Alu111. A8ar. Aur. Ca.rb. a.
Cllam. Cinch. Cocc. Lye. Mgo. c.
Nitr.llC. Nw: "· 0,. Petr. Phos. Sil.
~pig. Staph. Sulph. Sulph.llC. Tbuy.
Tox. Verat. Zinc.
- - incareerated"strangulated, Alum.
Nw: v. Op.
- - painful, Sil.
- - protruded, Alum. Aur. Sulph. ac.
- - an children, Avr. Nitr. ac.
As from a hernia, or as ifa hernia would
develope itself, p. ing., Clem. Guaj.
Spong. Sulph.ae. Tereb.
HollinDne81, see EmptinE-ss.
Hypoclwndriac disorders, abd., Grot.
Sod.e. Sod. chi. Stann. (comp. See.1.)
Hy1teric disord., abd., Ars. Bell Bry.
Cocc. Colch. lgn. /pee. Mgn. m.
Mo1ch. Nw: v. Puis. Stann. Stram;
lPler. (eomp. See.l.)
- &II rising up, see Globus.
Jerb; abd., Cann. Plat.
- hypog., Am.
- inJ., Cann..
l1U1Ctsvity in the abd., Alum. Camph.
Cinch. Pot.e. SaBB. Tigl.
!Muration, in the abdomen, Are. Calc.c.
Digitized by Coogle
588 21. Abdomen, groin, flatulency.•.
Cinch. Lye. Plumb. (comp. Hard-
neea.)
.bafoarmruJtion of the intestines, eee "En-
teritis".
Injlaticm (Aut\reibung, Aufblihung) of
the abel., Aeth. Amb. Amm. c. Anac.
Ant. 11. Arg. Arn. Ar.t. Aear. Assa.
Aur. Bar. c. Bell. Bry. Calc.c. Caps.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Cast. Cau.tt. Cham.
Cinch. Cocc. Colch. Coloc. Croc. Ferr.
Graph. Grat. Hydr. Hydr. chl corr.
Hyosc. Jod.Lam. Lye.Mgn. c. Mgn.m.
Mang. Men. Mur. ac. Myr. Nitr. ac.
Nw:v. 01. Op. Petr. Pho.t. Phos.ac.
Plat. Plumb. Pot. c. Pot.jod. Pot.nitr.
Pul& Rhm. Rhod. Sabin. Scill. Sec.
Sep. Sod. e. Sod. chl. Spig. Stann.
8tram. Stroot. Sulph. Tab. Thuy.
Tox. Yal. Verb.
- epig., Hen. Rhod.
- hypog., Bell
- ing., Amm. m. Sod. a. .
- sid., Camt. Sod. chl. Zinc.
- painful, Bar. c. BeD. Cast. Caust.
Cham. Hydr. Hydr.chl.corr. Pot.jod.
Spig. Stann. Stroot. Tab.
- ~.BeD. Plumb.
• - puffy, Plumb.
- in the morning, Nitr. ac. Rhod.
- in the evening, Rhod.
- after eating or drinking, eee Sec. 17.
, ,- with conStipation, Mgn. m.
Inguinal hernia, see hernia.
In.tenribilily, Ara.
Inward pressure, ing., lgn. Thuy.
ltchin~ on the abel., Belf.
Jumpang eena., abel., Croc.
Ltu:ity, eee flabbiness.
.hatJ..Colic, Alum. Op. Plat.
.hft ride particularly attacked, Ferr.
Likmagn. h. z· · · h bel
e eomet mg nnng m t e a ., sens.,
Cann. Oroc. Hydr. Pot.jod. &bad.
- hypog., Sabad. Thuy.
- ing., Pot.jod.
- sid., Kram.
Like a lump in the abel., Ant. tart. 8ulph.
Tox.
- nav., Spig.
Me.tenteric glands, indur., Ar•. Calc. c.
- swollen, Ara. Calc. c. Con.
Movement• in the abel., Berb. 4illtnn.
Oroc. Kram. Pot. jod. Sabad. ~ar.
Thuy.
- as from water, Case. Hen. Phos.ac.
Oppre.t.tion (Beklemmung), in the abd.,
Amm. Euphr. Mgn. c. Mo.tch. Sen.
- epig., Sen.
- bypog., Con. Mgn. c. .
Oppression in thehypog., atnight,Mgn. c.
Outpressing pain, abd. (Herausdrangen,
driicken), Colch.
- ing., Cann. Clem. Ign. Lye. Pot.jod.
Tereb. Tox.
Outward stinging, side, Assa.
Painfulness, abd., Bov. (comp. Tender-
ness.)
- epig., Stann.
- hypog., Cyc. Stann. Verb.
- ing., Graph.
- int., Bell. Bov.
- nav., Cinch. Dulc. Stroot. Verat.
Periodical belly-ache, Ign. Nux v.
Perspiration, on the abd., in walking,
Amb.
Physconia, see blood, stagnation o£
Pinching, see griping.
Like a plug behind the navel, sensation,
Ran. sc.
Pneumatocele, ing., Amm. c. Caps.
Pressing, in the abd., Amb. Ant. tart.
Arg. Bism. Calc. c. Caps. Case. Caust.
Cinch. Cupr. Euph. Grat. Hydr. Lye.
Mang. Nux v. Op. Par. Plat. Puis.
Rhru. Sabin. Sep. Sil. Sod. chi. Sod.
nitr. Staph. Sulph. Tab. Tar. Tereb.
Tox. Verat. Zinc.
- epig., Amb. Bry. Caust. Mar. Nux v.
Sulph.
- hypog.,Amb. Arg.Aur.Carb.v. Caust.
Cinch. Cocc. Ep. Pot. c. Rut. Sep.
Sod.chl. Val.
- ing., Berb. Pot. jod.
- nav., Anac. Cocc. Ran. sc. Rhm. Spig.
Tab. Verb.
- sid., Asar. Tar. Thuy. Zinc.
- - left, Sulph. Tar.
- from the left towards the navel, AI.
Pressing asunder, sens., in the abd.,
Euph.
- as from a weight, Ant. tart. Nux v.
- - epig., Nuxv.
- - hypog., Cocc. Ep.
- - nav., Cocc. Spig. Verb.
Pulsation, abd., Ant. tart. Caps. Plumb.
- epig., Calad.
- ing., Lye.
Quotidian belly-ache, Arn. Ep. Sod. chl.
- typical, Ep.
Ra.ffing (Ratren), in the abdomen, Calc. s.
Coloc. Ipec. Mosch.
- epig., Mosch.
- hypog., Lye.
- nav., Aeon.
Rasping (Sohriinden), abd., Calc. s.
- ing., Sulph. ac.
Red spots on the abd., Bell. Sabad. Sep.
- points, Sabad.
Rending in the abd., AI. Alum. Ars. Bry.
Cham. Cocc. Colch. Cop. Dig. Hydr.
Lye. Mgn.m. Mez. Myr. Nuxv.Pho.Y.
Digitized by Coogle
21. Abdomen, groin, flatuleney.
Puis. Scill. Stram. Sulph. Tab. Tox.
Verb. Zinc.
Rendingin theing., Euph. Lye. Sulph. ac.
- int., Berb. Samb.
- nav., Stram. Verb.
-aid., Lye.
Relltlessness, abd., Aman. Pot. c.
Retraction, abd., Cupr.
- nav.,Aeon.Bar.c. Chel. Plumb. Sod.c.
Tab. Tereb.
Rupture, see hernia.
Shuddering, on the abd., Coloc.
Soreness (Wundheitsschmerz), abd. Bell.
Con. Ran. Stann. Sulph.
- epig., Mang.
- int., Arub. Men.
-aid., Arn.
- - left, Colch.
Spasmodic p. (Klamm-,Krampfschmerz),
abd., Ang. Ant. tart. Carb. v. Coloc.
Dig. Graph. Mar. 01. Phos. ac. Pot. c.
Ran.sc. Sass. Staph. Thuy. Verb.
- ~ypog.! Carb. v.
- mg., Dtg. lgn.
- int., Lye. Sabin. Samb.
- nav., Calad. Phos. ac. Verb. Zinc.
Stinging, abdomen, AI. Alum. Ang. Bry.
Calc. c. Cinch. Con. Cupr. Dig. Grat.
•~gn. s. Nitr. ac. Oleand. Phos. Phos.
ac. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Puis. Rut. Sep.
Sod. c. Spig. Stann. Sulph. Tar. Verb.
Viol. tric. Zinc.
- epig., Pot. c.
- hypog., Chel. Cinch. Pot. c. Samb.
- ing., Bell. Carb. a. Kram. Lye. Mur.
ac. Pot. c. Sep. Sod. s. Strout. Sulph.
acid.
- int., Berb. Mgn. m. Rut. Samb.
- nav., Aeon. Anac. Assa. Dulc. Hyosc.
Mgn.s. Plat. Plumb. Sep. Verb.
- sid., Calc. c. Ign. Plat. Sabad. Sass.
Sod. c. Tar.
- - left, Bell. Calc. sulph. Samb. Sass.
Sulph. Tar.
Swelling, abd., Aeon. Ars. Sod.chi. Verat.
(comp. Tumidness and ascites.)
- - blackish, blue, Aeth.
- nav., Bry. Caust.
- sid., left, Laur.
- sens. of, ing., Amm. m. Ant. s.
Tearing, see rending.
Tenderness (Empfindlichkeit),ofthe abd.,
Bov. Cqff. Coloc. Nux v. Ran. Scill.
(comp. Painfulness.)
- external, Aeon. Bov. Canth. Nuxv~
Puis. Tab.
- (o pressure, Nuxv. Sass. (comp. when
pressed upon, p.)
- to the touch, Aeon. Aeth. AI. Canth.
Cham. Cyc. Hydr. Hyosc. Stann.
Stram. Tab. Tereb. Verat.
Tension (Spannen), in the abd., Amb.
Caps. Carb. a. Canst. Cinch. Grdph.
Hydr. Nux v. Par. Puis. Rhm. Rhod.
Sod. chi. Staph. Thuy. Verat. Zinc.
(comp. Distension.)
Tension in the epig., Sod. c.
- hypog., Aur. Cinch.
- ing.,Amm. m. Berb.Dig. Mgn.s.Spig.
- nav., Verat.
- sid., Zinc.
Throbbing, in the abd., Ign.
- epig., Calad. Cann.
- ing., Sulph. ac.
- nav., Aeon.
Throe-like (wehenartige) pains, abdom.,
Artem. Assn. Jod. Pot. c. Puls. Sod.
chi. Sulph. ac.
Tingling, mt., Mgn. m.
Tumidness (Dickheit), ofthe abd., Cattsl.
Graph. Jod. Mang. Sep. Sod.c. Staph.
(comp. swelliug.)
- hypo~., Sil.
- in children, Calc. c. Caust. Staph.
- in mothers, Sep.
- with danger of suffocation in hori
zontal position, Jod.
Turning sensationin the abd., Caps. Sep.
Sabad.
Twisting (Zusamrnendrehen), abd.,Dig.
- nav., Ran. b.
Twitching, abd., Ars. Tox.
- hypog., Sulph. ac.
- int., Ang. Guaj. Ran. sc. Suiph. ac.
Tympanitis, Cinch. Coloc. Op.
Ulcers in the bowels, Cupr.
mcerous p. abd., Cocc. Ran. b.
- hypog., Nitr. ac.
- ing., Arum. m. Cic.
- int., Tox.
- sid., left, Val.
Umbilical hernia, see hernia.
Uneasiness, abd., Ant. tart. Assa. Aur.
Cyc. Ferr. magn. Sod.c. Sod.chi.
- as after a heavy disease, Mur. ac.
Urging, see b~aring down.
Vehement, pain abd., AI. Ars. Bell. Cast.
Cham. Coloc. Cupr. Plumb. Pot. nitr.
- sid., right, Pot. nitr.
Veins, turgid on the abd., Sep.
Warmth, sens. of, abd., Case. Mang. Sen.
- nav., Sulph. ac.
As ofwater a sens. in the abd., Case.Hell.
Phos. ac.
Weakness, sens. of, ll.bd., Oleand. Sod.
bor. (cornp.flabbinessand emptiness.)
Winding, wringing, whirling, pain abd.,
Berb. Cop. Ran. b. Sulph. ac. Tox.
- nav., Artern. Con. Myr.
Yellow spotson theabd.,Canth.Phos.Sep.
In the morning, belly-ache, Alum. Amb.
Calc.s. eaust. Cham. Nitr.ac. Nuxv.
Phos. Ran. sc. Sod. chi.
o,gitized by Google
,
21. Abdomen; groirl, flatulency.
In tM morning,in bed, A~on. Amb. Phos.
Sep. Sod. c.
- at sunrise, Cham.
In the a.t)ernoon, belly-ache, Pot. nitr.
In the evening!.belly-ache, Amb. Ep. Led.
Mgn. m. N1tr. ac. Par. Phoe. Puh.
Sod. s. Val. Verat. Zinc.
- in bed, Par. Val. Zinc.
- - painfulness of the integumeRts,
Sabin.
- relieved, Pot. nitr.
At night, p. abd., Aeon. Amb. Are. Aur.
Carb. v. Cocc. Ferr. Graph. Hydr.
Mgn. c. Mgn. s. Myr. Phos. Plumb.
Puis. Ran. se. Sep. Sod. bor. Sod. c.
Sod. chi. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Tox.
Verat.
- p. int., Lye.
After midnight, p. abd., Amb.
By bandaging the abd. rei., Puis.
When bending the body, p. abd., Aeon.
- forward, relieved, Bell. Verb.
When blowing the nose, p. abd., Canth.
After breakfast, Nux v. Pbos.
When breathing, p. abd., Hyosc. Mgn. c.
Sen. Sulph.
- deep, Mang. Sulph.
-out (expiring), Dig.
- p. increased, Anac. Arg. Berb.
In children, abd. disord., Calc. o. Cattst.
Cham. Cic. Jalap. Myr. &nn. SiJ.
Staph.·
From cinchona (bark) misU!Ied, p. abd.,
Verat.
From ro.ffee, see Sec.17.
- rei., Coloc.
From a cold, belly-achel. Alum. Cham.
Dulc. Hydr. Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Verat.
From constipation, Sil.
When coughing, p. abd., Bell. Can&h.
(comp. Sec. 28.)
- int., Amb.
:__ p. incr., Anac. Cocc;. ·
To Cf'ook oneself, necessity, Chel. Coloc,
Grat. Rbm. Sabad. Tox.
By crooking oneself together, p; rel.;·
Cast.. · ·
When sitting crooked, p. abd., Ant. t/Jf't. •
- rei., Sulpn. .
When tlraiDing i" the abd., p., Val.
After drinking, see Sec. 17•.
After eating, incr., E\ton.
- rei., Psor.
- renewed, Jod.
By eruct11tiort rei., Bar.c;.Sod. ftitr.
Beforeand during e~~acuatiort, see Sec.22.
From exercise, p. abd., Coce. Dig. 01.
8ep. Stram.
- int., Plumb.
- p. incr., Berb.Ipec. Sod. nitr•.
- p. rei., Coloo.
Jaf"'*• p. Iliad., Coff. (cdmp. S.C. I.)
By jlatulericg discharged, p. abd. rei.,
Am. Sod. oitr.
From hamaorrhoitl8, belly· aehe, 8ulpi.
Val.
In infants abd. disord., Calc. c. eau.t.
Cham. Cic. .Jal4p. Myr. San. 8iL
Staph.
When t4Ughiag, p. abd., Ars.
In lying, incr. compl., Phoe.
- on the side, p. abd., Par.
- - reL, Sod. s.
During and after meal., p., see See.l7.
(comp. "eating" in this sec.)
Before, during and after menstnuatioft,
see Sec.25.
From milk, see Sec.17.
From potatoe• p. abd., see Sec.l7.
In pregnant women, belly-ach~, Am.
Bry..Hyosc• Nnxv. Pul8. Sep.
When preued upon, p. abd., Artem.
Nux v. Ran. b. Sue.
- incr., Anac., Bell.
- rei., Amm. c. Artem. Assa. BeU. Boo.
Coloc. Dulc.Graph.Grat. MeD•.Plwn~.
Pot.c. Pot. nitr. Sod. c•.Sod. ehl.
From purgtJtives p. abd., IU.
By re1t, p. incr., Bov.
- rel.,lpee.
From riitng in a vehicle, p. abd., Carb. v.
When rUing up from lying, rei., Arg.
In sitting, abd. p., Rut.
When sitting down, p. abd., Rut.
When sittiftg bent, p. abd., Ant. tGrt.
- rei., Sulph.
When ·~enng, Bell. Canth.
In standing p. abd., Rhm.
- ing., Thuy.
When Btooping p. hypog., Pot.c.
When 1tretching out ooe~elf, pain iog.,
Mgn.a.
- in the morning, p. integ., Tox.
From tobtlCC{) 1111oking, aee Sec.l7.
From the touch, p. abd. , Aeon. Aeth.
Canth. Cham. Cupr. Cyc. Hydr.
Hyoae. Nitr. ac. Sil. Stann. Stram.
Tab. Tereb. Verat.
- ~ypog., .eye.
- mg.,Sp1g.
- int.. Plumb.
- nav., Carb. v. Caust.
- sid. left, Bell. Colch.
- p. incr., Berb. Cupr. Plumb. Stann.
From veal, see Sec.l7. .
After vezation, belly-aphe, Coloc.
In walking, p. abd., Cinch. Ferr. Hyosc.
Ran. 8ulph. Verat.
- - ing., Thuy.
- on stone pavements, Con.
After walking in the open air, belly-ache,
Pot.jod.
From 104nft driraiing, 01.
Digitized by GoogI
.e
. _j
21. Abdomen,. paiD, cEo.- 22. Anus and alvine ejections. Ml
Pmnl IIHif"'llfood, p. abel.,.Pot.e. OL
By *"""""extern., reL p., Aluflll. Bar. e.
Cut. Sil.
PrDIIl JNter lrirtkifag, p.abel., CnMf. Mar.
Prom 1DONII6, p. aW:, Oic. FVl. Myr.
&btiJ. (eomp. See. 22.)
From f«''Ag UJUng, p. abd., Ant. Carb. Y.
Belly-ache tltt~ ..:
Contraction oftM ......, "Verb.
~ in the abel., Calc. L Cic, Cnpr.
Moech. Plat.
To bmd together, ueceMity, Chel. Coloc.
Gmt. Rltm. &bad. Tox.
Chilline.., Coloc. Mez. Phee.Spig.Strout.
(oomp. Sec. 4.)
Coldnu., gen., Ar•. Bat~. (eomp. See. 4.)
Com~a~Mmu, Oic. C.pr. &c.
Countenace, heM, Calc. e.
- paleness, Cham. Pho&
- rednea, Cut.
- ehuddering, Coloe.
To cry out, p., Cupr. Viol. tric.
Diarrhaa, Amb. A.mm. e. .Ar&
CbeL Ooloc. Jalap. Niee. OL Phoe.
Puis. Sod.e. Spig. &ront. Verat. Zinc.
(comp. See. 22.)
.DUWce to work, Ant. tart.
.&uc~ Grat. Nuxv.Pot.e. Po&.jod.
Rhod.
G•ping, Cut.
lllrtuU, yello\Vtlfa of, SiL
Heatl-6che, Phos. (comp. Sec. 7.)
But, gen., AI'B. Carb. T. (eomp. See.4.)
Leg•, heaviness of, Ep.
- lamen._ of, Carb. v.
Belly-aclle attetttled by: ··
ug., painfuln~ Col~. 06;..
Leucorr'lu84,diachargeo( Mgt~.~. Mp. m.
(comp. See. 25.)
To lie dOIDfl, necessity, .4.nL tan.
- on the belly, :ateeeel!ity, AI.
Micturition, copious, Spig. Verat.
- mppJ'ei!IIJed, Graph.
- tt>odeney to, Fen. martt·
Mac1u, dieeharge ef; from the tWDUI!,
Viol. tric.
Naill, blueness of, 8ll.
Namea, Amm. c. Calc. s. Chel. Cye. Grat.
Mang.Myr.OL S&ann.(comp.Sec.lS.)
- with incL to vomit, Dig. Grat. Nuxv.
Pe«vitlmu8, Aa!a. Cie.
PerBpiratiotl, impeded, Berb. Cftpe.Cham.
Coco. Lye. Mez. Moscb. Rhod.
Malle-•, AI. Ant. tart. Bell. Coloc.
Moeeh.
Pain in the Hef'al regiOn, Pot. e. Sed. s.
8leepinu1, Ant. tart
To 1tretch out oneself, necessity, Ant.
tart.
Slw.dderi'it::fea., Cineh. Ep. Ipee.
~Veret..I!IC.
Tremor and chattering with the teeth,
8ov,
Urgency to •tool,Anac. Aur. Bar. c. Bism.
Phos. Sep. Staph. Verb. Viol. tric.
Vomiting, A1ar. Are. (eomp. Sec. 18.)
Water, collec. of, in the mouth, Amm.
carb.
Water-brah, Dry. (comp. sec. 18.)
22. Anus and alvine ejections,
together fDith perin«Um and rectum.
Alvineejectiom, see the close of this Sec.
~ing, anus and reetum, Phos. ac.
Blood, disch. from the anus, AI. Amm. c.
Ant. I. Bar. m. Calc. c. Coloc. Hydr.
llglr. chl. corr. Ign. Lye. Mur. ae.
Pfios. Plat. Puis. Sabin. &d. bor.
Stram. VaL Zine. (comp. "Hemor-
rhoids" and "alvine ejections" at the
end of this Sec.)
- bright-red, Case. Hgtlr. Zine.
- clotted, Hqlr. chl. corr. Stram.
- dark, blaek, Ant.s. Hydr. chi. corr.
~ eong. to the anus, Sep. S~ph. ae.
~. reet., Val. .
Burntng, anus, Alum. Ant.s. An. Bar. c.
Calc. c. Carb. a. Carb. "· Colch. Graph.
Jod. Nitr. ac. Oleand. Onisc. Pot. c.
SIII!B. &<p. Sul~. Tereb. Thuy. Zinc.
(comp. this arttcle in "before, during
• and rifter evacuation.")·
-between the nates, Thuy.
Burning, in the rectum, Ant. tart. Ars.
Calc. c. Canth. Carb. a. Con. Nitr. ac.
. Pot. c. Sep. Sulph.
Condylomata, on the anus, Nitr. ac. Thuy.
C0111tipation, see "alvine E!iections," at
the close ofthis Sec.)
Comtriction, anus, Thug,.
Contraction,anus,Ang.Plumb.l!lec.Thuy.
- perineum, Sep.
- rectum, Calc. c. Sep.
Co1tivene11, see "alvine ejections."
Crackl, anus, Agn. Grapn.
Cramp, anus, Colch.
- rectum, Calc.c. Lye. Phos.
Cutting, in anus, Pot. c.
- rectum, Caust. Lye.
Diarrhaa, see "alvine ejections.,
DrauJing, anus and pain, Cyc.
..-. reet., Rhod.
DyiBnltry, see uqder "ahine ejections,"
diarrh<ea, dylenteric.
(6
Digitized by Google
I
I
22. Anus and alvine ctiections.
EnterorrAagia, see Blood, disch.
Eruption on the anus, Calc. c. Lye. Pot.c.
- burning and clustery, Calc.c.
--"- itching, Lye. •
- ulcerous, Pot.c.
In the et~ening, pain in the anus, Jod.
PiaL
Piltula in ano (in the rectum), Aur.
Caust. Kreos. Petrol. Sil. Sulph.
Galled, easily by riding on horse-back,
Carb.a.
Griping, rectum, Sabad.
Grumbling, rect., Mang.
HfB'TIIorrhoidal tumors, of the anus, AI.
Alum. Amb. Amm. c. Anac. Ant. s.
Arn. Ars. Bar. c. Berb. Caps. Carb.a.
Carb. v. Caust. Coloc. Cupr. Ferr.
Graph. Lye. Mur.ac. Nitr. ac. Nuxv.
Phos. Pot. c. Puls. Sod. bor. Sod. chl.
Sulph. Sulph. ac.
- of the rectum, Ars. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Canst. Coloc. Lye. Phos. Phos. ac. Sep.
Stront.
- bleeding, Aeon. Amm. c. Ant. s. Carb.
veg. Cinch. Cupr. Ferr. Millif. Mur.
ac. Nitr. ac. Phos. Pot. c. Sep. Sod.
bor. Sulph.
- blind, Ant.s. Caps. Ferr. Grat. Nux v.
Verat.
- blueish, livid, Mur. ac.
- burning, Ant. s. Ars. Berb. Calc. c.
Carb. a. Sulph. ac.
- inveterate, Nitr. ac.
- itching, Berb. Graph. Sulph. ac.
- large, Graph.
- oozing, Sulph. Sulph. ac.
- painful, Anac. Carb. v. Coloc. Graph.
Nuxv. Sabin. Sod. chi. Stront.
- - in sitting and lying, Phos.
- protruded, Calc. c. Calc. s. Caust.
Kram. Lye. Phos. Phos. ac. Sep. Tox.
-rasping, Puis. -
- sore smarting, AI. Graph. Mur. ac.
Phos. Puis. Tox.
- stinging, Bar. c. Pot. c. Sod. chi. Sulph.
- swollen, AI. Ang. Calc. c. Coloc. Mur.
ac. Nitr. ac.
- tingling, Ant. s.
Heat, rectum, Con.
Herpes, anus, Sod. chi.
- perin., Petr.
Inoctivity of the rectum, Alum. Anac.
Camph. Cinch. Mur. ac. Pot. c. Rut.
Tigl. Verat.
Itching, anus, Alum. Amb. Amm. c. Anac.
Ant.s. Bar. c. Calc. c. Carb. v. Caust.
Colch. Croc. Ferr. magn. Graph. Ign.
Grat. Lye. Mar. Mur. ac. Phos. Phos.
ac. Plat. Pot. c. Sass. Sep. Sil. Sod.c.
Spig. Spong. Sulph. Tox. Zinc.
- perin., Agn. Petr. Tar.
Itching, rectum, Amb. Calc. c. Ferr.
magn. Nitr. ac. Phos. Phos. ac. Sep.
Sit. Spig. Tox.
Looseness of the bowels, see lit. c, "a!vine
ejections", soft, &c.
After meals, pain in the anus, Lye.
Moistness, anus, Bar. c. Carb. a. Carb. v.
Nitr. ac.
- perin., Carb. a. Carb. v.
- rectum, Anac. Carb. v. Sep.
Mucus, discharged besides evacuation,
Alum. Ant. s. Cinch. Colch. Graph.
Hydr. Phos. Sabin. Sod. bor. Spig.
(Caps.1 Dulc. 1 Hel1.1 Hydr. chi. corr.1
Sulph.1 Tox.1)
Openness constant, of the anus, Phos.
Painfulness of the rectum, Aeon.
Paralysis, of the anus, Aeon. Coloc. Laur.
- of the intestinal canal, Phos.
Perspiration, perin., Calc. s.
Piles, see hremorrhoidal tumors.
Pressing, anus, Aeon. Ang. Ant. s. Bar. c.
Cin~h. Cyc. Phos. Verat.
- perm., Alum. Cyc.
- rect., Ant. s. Arn. Cann. Cinch. Pot. c.
Pressing outwards, perin., Assa.
Prolapsus, of the rectum, Ant. s. Ars.
Calc. c. Colch. Dig. Hydr. Ign. Lach.
Lye. Mgn. m. Mez. Plumb. Pot. nitr.
Sep. Sulph. Ther. Val. Zinc.
- wllile passing water, Mur. ac.
Rasping pain, anus, Ant. s. Grat. Vera!.
- rectum, Sod. chi.
Rending, anus, Colch. Phos. ac. Pot. c.
Zinc.
- rectum, Phos. ac. Pot. c. Rut. Sabad.
Thuy.
Retraction, of the anus, Plumb.
In sitting, pain in anus, Arum. m. Phos.
Ther.
Soreness, excoriation, anus, Bar. c. Carb.
anim. Nitr. ac. Pot.c. Sod. chl. Sulph.
- between the nates, Sep. Sod. chi.
- - when walking, Sod. chl.
- perin., Carb. v. Rhod.
- rectum, when riding in a vehicle,
Psorin.
Soreness, sens. of,anus, Ars. Berb. Graph.
Sass. Spong. Zinc.
- - with burning and tenderness in
sitting, Berb.
- rectum, Amrn. m. Grat. Lye.
Stinging, anus, Aeon. Ars. Carb. a.
Carb. v. Cinch. Con. Croc. Ferr. magn.
Grat. lgn. Mgn. c. Phos. Pot. c. Sep.
Sit. Sulph. Zinc.
- from the anus. to the sacral region
and abd., AI.
To stool, see "to evacuate" under alvine
ejections.
Stricture of the rectum, Camph. Ign.
Phos. Sod. bor.
Digitized by Coogle
31,\!Anus and alvine ejections•
....~
.............Graph. 8UJph. . i··,
,........OI'mL
~. AL Cop.. Hell. Hvdr. PCK.
ilili. Rlam. Sep. Spong. 'tab. fox.
-. at uightj Hydr.
- with naUBea 8n4 beUy-eehe, Tox.
- soeeeeded by fluid.~ mixed with
blood and slime, AI.
Tmricm, anus, Lye. Sep.
- rectum, Sep.
Teuer, see herpes.
1faro6bing, anus, Grat. Rhod.
- rectum, Sod. chL
ng,anus,Aman. Amb. Colch.Croc.
• Mar. Plat. Sabin. Sep. Sod. c.
reb. Tox. Zinc.
- rectum, Ant. tart. Calc. c. &bad. Sep.
8pig. Spong. Tox.
tJlt:er on the anus, P~eon. Pot. c.
-l!lt:erou p., anus and perin., Cyc.
Worm-complaints, Aeon. Ars. A,.._
Calc.c. Carb. v. Cic. Ferr. Fil.Graph.
Hydr. lgn. Mar. Myr. Nux v. Petr.
&bed. Scill. Sec. Sil. Sod. chi. Spig.
Spong. Stann. Sull!h. Tereb. Verat.
- - in scropbulous mdividuals, Sil.
- ascarides, Aeon. Artem. Asar. Calc. c.
Ferr.Grapb. Ign. Mgn. c. Mgn. s. Mar.
Nuxv. Phos.Piat. Scill. Spig. Spong.
8ulph. Val.
- lumbricoides, Aeon. Artem.Bar.c. Bell.
Cic. Graph. Hydr. Lye. M_,gn_. e. Nux v.
Pot. c. Sabad. Sod. chi. ~g. Suiph.
Tereb.
- tenia, Calc. e. Carb. a. Carb. v. Al.
Graph. M~. m. Petr. Phos. Plat.
Pot. c. Sabad. Stann. Sulph. Tereb.
AIvine ejections:
with respect to discharge in gen., color,
eonsistency and shape, matter ejected
and odour.
a) Dilcharge:
- bubbling, Jamb.
- copious, Ang. Aur. Berb. Mar. Ran. b.
- difficult, Alum. Amm. c. Ant. e. Assa.
Bar. e. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Camph.
Carb. v. Case. Caust. Cinch. Cocc.
Colch. Grat..Hydr. liP'- Lye. Mgn. m.
Mang. Mez. Myr. N1tr. ac. Nuxv. Ol.
Petr. Phos. Phos. ac. Plat. Plumb.
Pot. c. Pot.jod. Puis. Rhod. Rut. &Is.
Sep. Sil. Staph. Stroot. Tar. Thuy.
- - the stool 'being soft, Anac. Calc.s.
Carb. v. Cinch. Ep. Myr. Rhod.
- - easierina standing posture, Caust.
- easy, Berb.
- frequent,duringdays,Acon.Amm.m.
,Ang. Arn. Bruc. Calc. c. Carb.a. Cic.
Cinch. COff. ~C:. Droe. Hydr. sulph.
rub. Maog. !Wlr. ac, OL Par.
Petr. Phos. ac. Rdn. b. Ran. sc. Sen.
Sil. Sod. bor. Tar. (comp. Diarrhooa.)
a) Di1char(Je:
- insufficient, Dar. c. Carb. v. Colch.
Euphr. Graph. Lach. Mgn. m. Par.
Petr. Sabad. Scill. Sep. Sod. c. Sulph.
Zinc.
- iqterrupted ( aussetzend , failing) ,
.Amb. Hruc. Calc. c. Con. Nitr. ac. 01.
Phos. Pot. c. Rut. Sabad. Sod. chl.
Sulph. Verb.
- - every other day, Amb. Calc. c.
Con. Pot. c. Sod. chi. Sulph.
- - for 2 to 3 days, Sulph.
- involuntary, Aeon. Ant. tart. Arn.
Ars. Bell. Calc. c. Cinch. Cop. Dig.
Hyosc. Laur. Mur. ac. Oleand. Op.
Phos. Phos. ac. Sec. Sod. chl. Sulph.
Zinc.
- - at night, Arn.
--when voiding water, Mur.ae.
- - when discharging wind, Ferr.
magn. Verat.
- purging, see diarrhrea.
- quick, Ant. s. Bar. c. Cast. Onisc.
Viol. tric. .
- £OCanty (e:ering), Alum. Ar~. BeD. Bry.
Calad. Calc. c. Calc. s. Cinch. Grat.
Hydr. Hydr. chl. corr. Hyosc. Jamb.
Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Plat. Rut. Sabad.
81188. Sen. Sep. Sod. c. Sod.chi. Stann.
Staph. Tereb. Ther.
- small, Aeon. Arn. BelL Caps. Jamb.
Mez.
- tardy (zogernd, trlige), Amm.c. Assa.
Colch. Hyosc. Mgn. m. Myr. Nice.
Phos. Ran. b. Ran. sc. Rliod. Baa
Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. nitr. Spong. Stront.
Sulph. ae. (comp. difficult, and cos-
tivenelll!l.)
- unob!erved, Ars. Colch. Ferr. magn.
Phos. ac. Staph. Verat.
- wanting, see constipation.
b) Color:
- ash-colored, Asar. Dig.
- black, Ars. Camph. Op. Phos. Sulpb.
ao. Verat.
- brown, Amb. Ant. tart. .Assa. Camph.
Hydr. chi. eorr. Mgn. c. Rhm. Sab8d.
SCill. Sulph. Tereb.
- chyle-like, see white.
- clay-colored, Calc. s. Petros.
- dark, Aman.
·- gray, Asar. Dig. Phos. Phoe. ac. Rhm.
-greasy, shining, Canst. ·
- greenish, porraeeous, AetA. Amm. m.
Ars. Bar. mur. Bell. Calc. e. Caoth.
Carb.a.Cham.Coloe. Dulc.Grat. Hydr.
Hydr. chi. corr. Ipee. Laur. MB'!- ~·
Nuxv. Phos. Puis. &p. Stann.~·
BulpA. ac. Tllb. Tereb. Tisl. Vat.
Digitized by Coogle
b) Color:
- lemon-colored, see yellow.
- light-colored, Carb. v. Caust.
- liver-brown, Anac. Mgn. e.
- pale, Carb. v. Lye.
- red, Sil. Tox.
- white, Aeon. Asar. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Caust. Cham. Cinch. Colch. Cop. Dig,
Ign. Jod. Petros. Phos. ac. Pula. Sod.s.
Spig. Spong. Sulph. Tox.
- white like chyle, or milk, Arn. Bell.
Dulc. Hell. Hydr. Nuxv. Rhm. Stront.
- white-flocky, Ipec. Scill.
- white-streaked, Tox.
- yellow, Aeth. Amb. Ant. tart. Ars.
ASSII. Calc. c. Cinch. Cocc. Coloc.
Hydr. Jgn. Ipec. Oleand. Petr. Phos.
Plumb Puis. Sod. c. Stront. Tab.
Tereb.
- yellow-streaked, Tox.
c) Motter ejected. conmtency mul •/l(lpe:
- acrid, excoriating, Cham. Ferr. Hydr.
Puts. Sass. Verst.
- bilious, Aeth. Dulc. Hydr. chl. corr,
lpec. Pul•.
- bloody, Ant. tart. Arn. Ars. Canth,
Cap.s. Carb. v. Colch. Coloc. Cupr.
Dulc. Hydr. Hydr. chl. eorr. Jalap.
Ipec. Krom. Kreo•. Myr. Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. POO.. Plumb. Pot. nitr. Sod. c.
Sod.s. Tox. Val. Verst.
- blood-8U'eaked, covered with, Con.
Mgn.m. Nuxv. Scill Thuy.
- as ifburnt, Bry.
- clotty, Nuxv.
- crumbling, Amm. c.Cue.Guaj. Hydr.
Mgn. m. Phos.ac. Rut.
- .curdled, Bar. m. Cham. Hydr. Myr.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Viol. trie.
- dry,Ara. Calc.•.Mang.Nitr.ac. Phos.
Stann. Tereb. Zinc.
- excoriating, see acrid.
- fermented, Ipec. Sabad.
- with filaments like hair, SeL
- ftocky (whi&e}, Ipec. &ill
- frothy, fo:uny, ~Calc. e. Coloc. Jod.
Mgn.c. Op. Sod.& SUlph.ac. Tox.
- gelatilloua, Colcb. HeU: Sep. Tox.
- gl®ular, Plumb.
-hard, Aeon. Alum. Atun. Amm.c.
Amm. m. Ant. s. Asea. Dar. c. J;Jell.
Berb. Bpv. Jky. Calc. c. Calc.•. Canth.
Carb. a. Cue. Chel. Cocc. Con. Cyc.
Eqphr. Graph. Grot. Guaj. Hydr.
Ign. Jod. Krom. Lam· Lour. M,rn. m.
Niec. Nwe v_. OL Petr. Phell. 1>hoe.
Pboe. ac. Plumb. Pot.jod. Pot. nitr.
llan. b. Rut. Sai*. Sus, Seill. BeL
&Ia. t$il. Sod.c. Sod.cbl.Sod.a.St~ann.
SWpll. ~ $rdpA. Swp}J.ac.Tereb.
Thuy. V~t. Verb. VioLtric. ZiD!:.
c) Motter ~~couil(...,llfl4 ...:
- hard, w1th in&errq.-a (.eostiveoe~B).
Aga. .4.ll8a. Bry. Calc. c. Cocc. ec..
I>Wc. Gr4ph. Lyt:J. Mgn. e. Nitr. tiC.
Nux v. Pot. c. Sil. Sod.ebL Stp.ph.
S_,h. l'er.-t.
- - cb.ronjp, JJrv. Oaut. Cocc. GrapA.
Lye. N~n11. Sil. Sod.obl. .S.fpb..
Verst. (comp. oonst.ipet.ion.)
- - with hardne88 of the liver, Graph.
- hard first, then fluid, AL .
- hard and sot\ al&ernately, Ara. Joel.
Lach.? Mgn. s. NUr. "'- .PhD&.t Sod.
00,.
- indiges&ed, Am. An. Allll'. Bry.CaJc.
carb. Cham. Ciru:h. Con. p,.,., Hydr.
Myr. Nitr. ae. Ql64Ad. Ph~ Paos. ac.
Scill. swph.
- - at niJiht or after meals, Cisek.
- knotty, Bar. c. Carb. a. Ca.a. Chel
Graph. JCMI. Led. Mgn. m. Mang.
Petr. Plvmb. Sil.Sod.& Stann. Slront.
Sulph. Sulpb. ac. Thuy. VioL od.
- liquid, Aeth. Ang. Arn. Ar•. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Die. Cincb. Clem. Ep. Krsm.
Mur. ac. Qleand. Oniac. Phell. Ph06.
Pot. nitr. Rh~ &c. Spig. Staph.
Tereb. Verat.
- lubricated, Ferr. magn.
- mucous, Amm. m. Ang. Ant. tart.
Arn. Ars. Asar. Bar. m. IJeJJ. Brue.
Canth. Caps. C.rb. v. Case. Cast.
Cham. Chel. Cinch. Colch. Coloc.
Dulc. Ferr. Graph. Grst. HeU. Hydr.
Jod. Ipec. Laur. Nitr. ac. POO.. Phos.
ac. Puh. RAm. Rhod. &ill. Su:. /Sep.
Spig. Stann. Sulph. Swph. ao. Tah.
Toz.
- - with blood, Am. Bruc. Calc. e.
Cape. Carb. •· Out. Dros. Grs_ph.
Hydr, H,Jr. chl. CON'. lp. Tod.
M,rn.m. Nun. PeJ.r, Pvti. ~.
Sil: Sulph. Swpb. ac.
- peppy, papescent, Aman. Ant.s. Ant.
tart. Arn. Artem. A&sa. Calod, Cinch.
Cyc. E•ph. Jamb. Jod. Lam. Mang.
Mar. Mez. 01. PIIBOn. Par. Phos. Plw&
ac. Plat. Rhm. Rlofl. Sel. Seo. Sil.
Sulph. Swpb.ac. Tl!b, Tar, Tber.Val.
Zinc. .
-pitch-like, Hy_dr. Mez. Nuv.
- purgfng, see Diarrh<ea.
- purulent, Arn. Jod.
-sandy,~.
- withacraplDpoftheinte&tinei,Canth.
Coleh.
- sheep's-dung-like, Bar~ Mga. m.
Plumb. Rut. Sep. Verb,
- slimy, see IDUOOU&
- 10ft,Aoon.A.eth. ARJt.A~ AmnLm.
Anoc. &r. c. ·Ber.6. Cole. c, Carb.v.
COCIC.Coft: U,.ph. F,rr.IUID· Hydr.
Digitized by Coogle
22. Anus and alvine ejeoliou.
ulph. rub. Jod. Kram. Mez. Myr.
Nitr. ac. Oleand. 01. Ph01. Phos. ac.
Pot. nitr. Pul•. Ran. sc. Rhod. Sabin.
Sep. Tab. Viol. tric. Zinc.
c) Matter ejected,consistency and shape:
- soft, with disposition to frequent evac-
uation (looseness of the bowels),
Calc. c.
--chronic, Calc. c. Graph. Phos.
Sod. chi. Sulph. ac.
- soft first, then hard, Sabin.
- soft and hard alternately, Mgn. s.
-stercoraceous-slimy, Cham. Dig.
Hydr. chl. corr. Led. Nux v. Rhm.
Viol tric.
- tar-like, see pitch-like.
- thickly shaped, Bry. Graph. Ign.
Pot. c. Sod. nitr. Sulph. ac. Thuy.
Verst.
- thin shaped, Caust. Graph. Hydr.
Mur. ac. Sod. bor. Staph.
- tough, Carb. v. Caust. Hydr. Ign. Mez.
Plumb. Pot. c. Sass. Sod. c. Zinc.
- watery, Aeon. Ant. s. Ant. tart. Am.
Ars. Cham. Cinch. Cure. Dulc. Ferr.
Hyosc. Mur. ac. Nuxv. Phos. Phos.
ac. Puis. Ran. sc. Sec. Stroot. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Tox.
d) Odour:
- cadaverous, Lacb. Sil. Stram.
- fretid, offensive, Ars. Assa. Calc. c.
Coloc. Hydr. chl. corr. Jamb. Lach.
Mar. Nitr. ac. Op. Par. Phos. ac.
Plumb. Ran. sc. Rhm. Scill. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Tab.
-mouldy, Coloc.
- putrid, Ars. Bry. Cham. Cinch. Coloc.
Graph. Ipee. Lye. Myr. Nitr.ac. Nux v.
Par. Sec. Sep. Stram. Sulph. Sulph. ac.
- sour, Arn. Calc. c. Calc.s. Coloc. Dulc.
Graph. Hydr. Mgn. c. Rhm. Sep.
Sulpb.
Conltipatiora ( Stuhlvenrtopfung), Alum.
Aman. Amb. Amm.c. Amm. m. Arn.
Aur. Bar.c. BeU. Bov. Bry. Calc.c.
Calc. e. Camph. Canth. Carb. v. Cic.
Cocc. Colch. Coloc. Con. Cor. Crot.
Cupr. lhaph. that. Guaj. H;rdr.
Hyoec. Lach. Lact. Laur. Led. Lye.
Mgo. c. Mao_g. Men. Moech. Nice.
Nuz v. OL Up. Phos. Plat. Plumb.
Pot. c. Puis. Sabad. Scill. Sel. Sep.
Sil. Sod. cAl. Stann. 8taph. Stram.
Sulf.h.Tab.Tereb. Ther. Thuy. Verat.
Vio •od. Zinc.
- chronic, ~. CtnUt. Graph. Lye.
Nuz v. Op. ~lumb. Sod. chl. Sulph.
Thuy. Vert~t.
- every other day, Amb. Calc. c. Con.
Pot.c. Sod. chi. Sulpb.
- for IJ8Teral day!', Qm. S.Z,Pi. ftur.
Con.tipatieta ·( Siubl•entopfung), with
diarrb. altemat., Ant. & Ant. tart. Jol.
- - in elderly people, Ant. e.
- when poisoned with lead, Alum. Op.
Plat.
- after po11utions, Tbuy. ·
- in pregnant women, Lye. Nuxv.Sep.
- in (suckling) infanta, Alum. Nu:n.
Op. Sulph. Verat.
- on a voyage, Plat.
-with headache, Con. Nuxv. Verat.
- with heat, general, Cupr. Verat.
- with liver-hardness, lhaph.
- with urgency to evacuate, Cocc.Con.
Sec. VioL od.
Costivene66 (Hartleibigkeit), Agn. Ala.
Bry. Calc. c. Cocc. Con. Dulc. GrapA.
Lye. Mgn.c. Nitr.ac. Nuzv. Pot.e.
Sil. Sod. chi. 8ltlph. Sulph. Vert~t.
- chronic, llTJI. CaUit. Cocc. lht~pA.
Lye. Nuxv. Sil. Sod.chi. Sulph. Verat.
(comp. constipation.)
- with hardneee of the liver, lhaph.
Diarrhrea, in gen., Aeon. Aetb. Alum.
Aman. Amb. Amm. c. Ant. e. Ant.
tart. Am. Ar1. Artem. Asar. A8IL
Bar.c. Bell. Bov. ~. Calc.c. CGlc;6.
Cann.Canth. Caps. Cast. Cham. Chel.
Cinch. Clem; Cocc. Coleh. Coloc.Con.
Cop. Cupr. Cure. Dig, Dulc. Ferr.
Graph. Hell. llvdr. Hydr. cAl. corr.
Hyosc. Jamb. lgn. Ind. Jod. Ipec.
Kram. Kreoe. Lach. Lact. Laur. Led.
Mgn. c. Mgn.m. Mur.ac. Myr. Nice.
Nitr. ac. Nuzv. Op. Preon. Par. Petr.
Phell. Pl101. Phos.ac. Pot.c. Pot.jod.
Pot. nitr. Pull. Ran. ec. Rhm. &bad.
Sabin. Sea Scill. Sec. Sen. Senn. 8ep.
Sil. Sod. c. &d. 1. Spong. Staph.
Stram. Stroot. llttlpla. Solph.ae. Tab.
Tereb. Tigl. Tong. Toz. Val. Verat.
Zinc.
-chronic, Bar. m. Bmc. Calc. c. Dulc.
Hydr. eulph. rub. Ipec. Mgn. c. Mg'll.
mur. Pluntb. To.r.
- with constipation alternating, Ant. e.
Ant. tart. Jod.
- - in elderly personR, Ant. e. '
- debilitating, Bry. Con. &c. Sep.
- not debilitating, Phos. ac.
- dysenteric, AI. CtJlc. •· Cantla. CGp6.
O.rb. v. Colch. Coloc. Dig. Hydr.
Hydr. chl. corr. Jod. /pee. Kreos. Nitr.
II'C. Nuzv. Plumb. Staph.· Sulpla. Tox.
- fii!Culent, Calc.e. Led. Mur. ae. Plumb.
Sp~.
- painful, Carb. v. Rydr. Jalap. Peu-.
Plumb. Sulph. Verat. ·
- poinlees, Bar.m. Clem. Hydr. eulpb.
ruiJ. Pot. nkr. SIIIJh\.
Digitized by Coogle
3a. .Aau ud ainu ~ona.
DNrrluu, ~~~~ ....... with the
. evaouation. Bne.
- vehe01en~ qvpr. Cure. lod. Mgn. m.
Mes. Tab. Verat.
- in the morning, Bry. Cop.
- in the evening, Cauat. IAch. Pot. c.
-at qhl, Aur. Bry. Centh. Caps.
Oaust.Cham. OMl. Oit~eA. DuJc.Grat.
Hytlr•.WpA. rub. Pot. c. Pvl6. Sulph.
Tab. To.i. Verat.
- day and night, Sulph.
-in children, Calc.c. Celie.•• Oarb.v.
C1wun. Hydr. Jal4p. lpec. Mp. c.
Myr. Rhm. Sep. Sui~ Sulph.ae.
-after a cold, Bt>JJ. Bry. Cauat. Dulc.
Hydr. Myr. Nuxv. Po&.c. Sep.Sod.c.
- :!\'!-gdenLiti(ln, Calc. c. Cham. Co.ff.
Hyclr.
- after drinking, see Sec. 17.
- &om evening-air, cold. Hl'~·-
- £rom fruits, Ars. Cinch. #(IIDII.
- in infants, see children.
- from ice-cream or ice.water, Pul&
- in lying-in women, Au&. e. DuJc.
Hyoec. Rhm. ,
- after meala, see Sec. 17. ·
- after meaelee, Cinch. Hydr. Pule.
- from milk, see Sec. 17.
- in moist weather, Rlwl.
- in pNgDant women. Dulc. Lye. Petr.
PhOe. Sep. Sulph.
- in acropliulous indiYiduala, Calc.e.
- in aummer, Dulc.
- in typh1111, Myr.
- from weakneSs, Myr. (Cioch.1 Pboe.
ac.l)
Di4rr'AtN attended by:
-anorexia, Myr.
- anus, soreness in, Cham. Fen. Hytlr.
Sua.
- ~ety, Ant. s.
- bftck, pain in, Ferr.
- beDy-aehe, Alum. Amcm. Arum. e.
Amm.m. A~Ant. •·Ant. tart. Aua.
Bar.c. Bot~. .Calc.e. Cama. C.ntl.
Ca~ Cast. C. am. Coloc. Con. Cop.
Dig. Euph. Hen. Hydr. Hytlr.chJ.corr.
J~. IDd. Kram. Mgn. c. Mes. Nice.
Nwr:"· Ol. Petr. Pot.c. P~t.jod. Pull.
Rhm. 8ase. Sil. Sod. bor. Sod. c. Spig.
Staph. Stram. Stront. Sulpl&. Tereb.
Tong. To.i. Verat.
- - colicky, Conn. Cham. Col«:. Dulc.
- - cramping, Ferr,
- belly, diatension of, Graph. Verat.
- chillin• Cut. Cop. Dig.
- coldn• Sj)ig.
- · ~n.COn. .,
- ftarulenoy diaciJarge of, Ferr. map.
DMrrN. atteDII«l I;IJ: · .
- pping, Cast. . '
- limbe, paillfVlnees of, Amm. m.
-nausea, Hell.
- sacral regioo, pain~ Nux v. Pot.jod.
- shrieking and whinins (in children),
Carb. v. Cham. J.U.p. 8ena. Sulph.
- sleepineM, Myr.
- thirit, Mgn.e.
- vomiting, see Sec. 18.
- wamblirig in the stomach, Peeon.
- weakneee, Pot. c.
Dg1entery, see diarrbrea, dysenteric.
To e11aeuate,urgency,i!ffort.I,.Ant.e. Arg.
. Am. Are. Bar.c. Berb. Ferr. magn.
Hytlr.Hydr.ebl.corr.Mgn.e.Mp.m.
Nttr.ac. Phoe. Po&..nitr. Pule. Rba.
Rhod. Sabad. ~ Sec. &d. c. Sod.
chJ. Staph. Stram. To.x.
- fteqoent, Arg. Callllt. H,otc. lga.
Mgn. c.. M_gn. m. Plat. Pols: ,Rfm. 1c.
RAm.81L &tl. c.Sod.cltl Sptg. Sta~m.
SulpA. Tab.
-ineffectual, Amb. An«. ArD. A.a.
Bism. Carb. a. Camt. Coco. Con.Grat.
Hydr. Hydr. chi. corr. lgn. Kram.
Lech. Lye. Mgn. c, Mgn. m. Nux v.
Oleand. Plumb. P.ot. c. Rhm. &p. Sil.
&tl. c. Sod. chl. ~pig. Stcma. SulpA.
Sulph. ac. Tab. Tereb. Tbuy. To~~g.
Viol. ocl.
- presaing, Nitr. ac.
- stro~, Ferr. magn.
- - voiding wind only, Ferr. magn.
- sudden, Anac. Apt. s. Bar.c. Cut.
Ferr. magn. 01. Viol. tric.
- in the evening, Bism.
.- at night, Hydr. Puis.
- after meals; Ferr. magn.
- when walking 01' exercising, Rhm.
attended by:
- .anus, pain in, Ar1. Ca118&; Mgn.e.
- anxiety, Amb. Caust. ·
- beDy-ache, Ars. Bar. c. Puis. Tox.
- countenance, redneu, Cauat.
- exertion, Tbuy.
- eructaLion, Ferr. magn.
- flatulency, discharge, Carb.a. Lach.
Mgn. c. Mgn. m. StJf1.
- lumbar region, p. in. &r. c. ·
- nausea, Tox.
- rectum, itching, Euph.
- sacral region, p. in, Xram.
- scrotum, contracted, Ferr. magn.
&iforeeviJCUIJtion(evacuat. preced. by):
- anus, pain in, Carb. a. Carb. v. Phoe.
Spong.
- - - burning, Al Kram. Olsand.
--- ·~,Spoog.
Digitized by Coogle
~. Alws·and alrioe ttieetions.
IJtPre~(eftCIIM. pneed. ~Jt): ' DwVtg ~
- auiety, Amb.llar. carb. CaUl&. Pot. -blood, cliechuge of, Alum. Amb.
carb. A-. c. Amm. m. Anac. Calc. c.
-belly-ache, Aman. Amm.c. A111m.-. Carb. v. Caac. Cauat. Hytlr. Lam.
Ant. tMI. An. &... c. Brr; Cape. Lye. Plat. Pot.c. Pul& Rut. SeL Sep.
Carb.v. Cast. CUN. J>is. DUic. IWI. Sulph.ac. Thuy. Zinc. (comp. pi1e8,
. ~· Hydr.filph. rub. Jamb. Krafll. bleeding.)
N100. Nitr. ac. OL Pe&r. P..U.. Rhm. - chilLs,fear ofapoplitxy aDd palecouo·
Stann.Staph.Sulph.Tab.Tiuy.Verat. tenance, Verat.
VioL trie. - erec&iona, Ign.
- - colicky, Alum. - to evacuate urg811cy, Calc.L Carb. •·
- chiHa, Bar. e. C... Dig. Ma. Colch. Hydr. Hydr. chL corr. K.ram.
- erectioo, Thuy. Lach. Mez. Nuxv. Socl.e. Tab.
- flatuJency, Ant. tart. Cape. Cub. L - jlatulency diech., Amara. A-. PhelL
CIIA. Spong. VioL&ric. Sabin. 8cilL Sod. bor. Staph. VioL tr.
- pping, Cut. - groin, pain in, Laur. .
- mucus, see slime.
-aa--,Tox.
-rectum, pain in, Nuu.
- 1181U1itivenees, irritability, Calc.c.
- llhuddering, Mu.
- teneemus, Hydr.
- tremor, Hydr.
- vomiting, Ant. tart.
Dwiag evGC~~ation:
- anus contracted, Tiu,.
- anUI, pain in, Sa-. Stroat. (comp.
rectum.)
- - - bi~. Dulc.
- - - burnmg,Ang.Ar&. Be.r.e.Bry.
Cap1. Carb.v. Cut.Coec.Eu~
Laoh. Laur. Mur.ac. Nice. .
Sod. ckl. Staph. Stroot. Su
Tereb. Verct.
- - - conatringing, Slllph.
- - - cutting, Cauat. Laur. Sod.e.
Staph.
- - - fretting, Aug. .
- - - ~rasping, PbelL
- - - atchiDg, Hydr. SiL Sulph.
- - - Jaceruing, Calc. e.
- - - preMing, Aeon. Ant.L Chel.
Lach. Laur. PheU. Pot. nitr.
Pula. Spig. Staph.Tong. Verb.
Zinc.
- - - rasping, Mur. ac.
- - - rending, Sod. nhl.
- - - sore, Ara.
- - - stinging, SiL Sod.chL Sulph.
- anxiety, Verat.
- back, pain in, Pula.
-belly-ache, Aeth. Aman. Ang. Ar1.
Bov. Bry. Cann. Carb.v. Cham. Con.
Dulc. Dros. Ep. Euph. Hen. J!ydr.
IIJdr.chl.corr. Jamb.lnd. Lach.Mgn.
carb. Nuxv. OL Pot.nitr. Rbm.Sass.
SeLSep.8ocl. bor. Sulph.Tereb.Verat.
Zinc. (oomp. diarrhOla with belly-
ache.)
- - diB&ention ot; Lye.
- - retraction of; AmaL
- nauaea, Hen.
- palpitation ofthe heart, Ant. tart.
- piles, bleeding, Nitr. ac.
- - painful, CaJ& Tox.
- - protruded1 Calc. c. Kram. Pboe.
ac. Rut.
- J>rolapw.e ani, Hydr. Ign. Mez. Rut.
&p. Sulph.
- proetatic ftuid, 100 See. 24.
- rectum, heat in, Con.
- rectum, itching in, 8iL Sulph.
- rectum, pain in, Caust. Con. (eomp.
anU&)
- - - burning, Con. Grat. Mar. ae.
Sod.e. &tl.clal. Sulph. Sulph.
acid.
- .,.... - contracting, Coloc.
- - - cu&ting, Caost. Sod.c.
- - - ruping, Mur. ac.
- - - rending, Sod. chi.
- - - stinging, Sil. &d. ckl. Su!Ph.
- ll&el'81 region, pain in, Carb. L Pot.
jod. Rut.
- shuddering, Rbm. Verat.
- slime diech., Alum. Lach. Lye. Mgn.
mur. Pot.e. 8eL Spig.
- stomach, pain in, Aman.
- syncope, Sass.
- tenesmus, Aeon. Aeth. Ara. Calc. e.
Calc.L Eupl&. Grat. Hell. Hydr. Hydr.
ckl. corr. fpec. Laur. Nice. Nih'. ac.
Nuxv. Op. SeL Sean. Sep. 8ocl. c.
Spong. Sulph. Tab.
- vomiting, Arg. (comp. diarrhata.)
- weakness, Verat.
.A,ft.er etlaCfUJtion (evac. euceeded by):
- abdominal weakness, Plat.
-anus constricted, Mez.
- anus itching and tingling, Berb. Mar.
Tereb.
- anus, pain in, Alum. Lye. (comp.
rectum.)
- - - burning, Ant.tart. Barb.CaUit.
Grat. :&nm.Oleand.OlP1e0n.
o,gitized by Google
.dM 22. Anusandalrine~ectiou.-!3-Urilleand.urinaryorgans~
Petr. Pboa. PoLe. 8eon. 8od. A/t#~ palpkatioll eftbe Mat,
carb. 8od.cbl. Stroot. Tereb. . CaUIIL .
Aft4r e11CICUOtion (eVliCWlL IIUCCeCied by): - piles, pain in, G~eh.
- anus, pain in, contracting, Ign. - prolaJIIIWI ani, Hydt'.
- - - cuuing, Sod. c. - prostatic Huid, see Sec. 24.
- - - preeaing,Berb•.c..c.\.Phos.Sen. -rectum, pain in, Sen. (comp. anus.)
- - - rending, PoLc. - - - bumin~, GraL Petr. Phos.POi.
·- - - sore smartin~, Calc. e. Iga. carb. SOd.s. Sod. c1&l.
PheiL - - - cutting, Sod. c.
- - - et.iogiog, Berb. Pot. c. - - - preseing, Nuxv. Phos. Sen.
._ - - throbbing, Berb. Locl. - - - rending, stinging, Pot. e.
-anxiety, CausL -relaxation, Cale.c. Nitr.ac. Phoe.
- belly..flche,Amlm. Amb.Amm.c. Arg. - ~1. region,~ in, Tab.
Bov. Carb. v. Cantb. OL Pula. Rhm. - aell8Wveneas, Nitr. ac. ·
Staph. Tong. Verat. Zinc. - shuddering, Mez. Plat.
- blood, discharge, Alum. Lye. &bin. - slime, disch., Phoe. 8el.
Sel. - 10reneea, general, Calc. c.
- chills, Mez. - tenesmus, Caps. Hydr. lpec. Phell.
- to evacuate, urgency, RAm. Staph. Phoe. Phos. ae. Rhio. ·Senn. Sulph.
Tab. Tar. Ther. Tab. . .
- headache, Kram. - vomiting, Jamb.
- micturition, see See. 28. - weakneea, Coloo.
23. Urine and•urinary organs.
Biting, urethra, Mar.
Blood diach. from the urethra, Ant. e.
Ant. tart. Calc. o. CcmtA. Cap~. CenaL
Con. EupA. Hydr. Lye. Mez. Nuxv.
Phoe. Plumb. PUZ.. See. Sulph. Zinc.
- with burning, Pula.
llrwmng, bladder, Colch. Lach. Rhm.
Sep. Tereb.
- urethra, Amb. Am. •· Ara. Berb.
. Druc. Dry. Calc. c. Cann. Clem. ColeA.
Cupr. Hydr. Nitr. ae. Par. Petr. Phoe.
Phoe. ac. Pot. c. Sep. StopA. &lplt.
Tereb. Tkuy.
Calculi, in the blad.,and kidn.,&n. Zttte.
Catsrrh of the bladder, Dulc.
CoMtricting, aena. blad., Caps. Phoe.ac.
Pula. &as. (comp. spaam.)
Contracting aena. urethra, Clem.
Cutting p., blad., caps. Lach. Lye. PoL
carb. Tereb.
- uretbm, Berb. Bruc.
CyMitU, see indammatioo.
Cyllto1fHU1nut, see apaarn.
Dia~Jete•, Bar. m. Carb. v. Kreoe.1 Led.
M~. c. Pho1. ac. Scill. Sod.chi.
DraviinJr p., blad.-, Rhod.
- urethra, Colch. PetrOl. Pula. Zinc.
Dribbling, aens. of, Thuy.
Dyw.ry; A1'8. Cann. Canth. Dig. Enph.
Mgn. m. Plumb. Ran. b. See:
Erturem, Bar. o. Dry. Nitr. ac. PW..
Spoog. To~. (comp. to urine, audden
eft"orta.) . ·
p,me, aena. o(, in the bladder, Calad.
Gleet, eee gonorrhalll eeeundaria.
GonorrlcN, Agn. ·c-. CcntA. Cape.
Cop. HF. HJ4r~ cAL.,.. Hy.dl.
I!Ulph. rub. Led. Mez. Nitr. ac. Petrot.
Puis. Sabin. (Tereb.1) Tlw.f.
Qoaonolclfl aeeundaria (cbronae), ~
Bar. e. Bar. m. Calc.s. Canth. Dulc.
Hydr. Lye. Mur. ac. Nitr. ae. 8el. &,.
SOd. ebl. Bulplt. Thuy. (Petr.1 Pbole.
ac.!)
- - wRh impotence, Agn._
- anpprel&ed, Canth.
FromgonorrAII!a, auppreaaed, aft"eetion of
the testicles, Agn. Canth. Clem. Pall.
Griping, bladder and urethra, Lye.
HfBflltlluria, Amb. Am. tart. Am. Ara.
Calc. e. Calc. •· CampA. Conn. Cont.\.
Cinch. Con. Ipec. Mez. Mill. Ntut•.
Qp. PA". Pu~ Su& ~. Sui~
Tereb. Thuy. Uva. Zine.(comp. bloOd,
diecb.) . .
Hemorrlwidt of the bladder, see blood
and mucus.
Incontinence of urine, eee Enureais.
~mmation, blad., amth. Dig.
- urethra, Calc. s. Cann. Ctmth. c,.
Sabin. Sulph. Tab.
IM:hury, Am. Aur. CampA. Cmatl&. Oie.
Dill. Dulc. Hyoac. Nuxv.Op.PlumiJ.
Ptiit. Sabi!l· Sta~n. Sulph.Tox. Verat.
(eomp. unne, d18Ch. of, auppreaeed.)
- painful, Aeon. Am. A~er. Ccmtla. Pula.
ltclling, urethra, Thuy. _
Michlrition, see "urine" at the eloee of
this Section.
MuctU, discharge of, Ago. Aman. Am.•·
Calc. c. Calc. a. Cann. Canth. Con.
Dulc.Hydr.Mez. Nitr.ac. Petr.Samb.
Su& &d.cbl. 8ulph. Thny. (eomp.
(OilOI'I'bca)
Digitized by Coogle
•
-- - - 4 ~~
2J,. Uri~ 8ll4 uriaary organs.
Alwl&l, bloody~ ~ Ni&r. ae.
- purulent, Nu Y. S... (comp. gonor-
ihrea.)
- thick, Hydr. Hydr.chl.corr.
- v.ileid, Alnan. Nu& w..
- watery, Cann. Hydr. Hydr.cltl. corr.
- )'811ow, Aman. Cop. Hgdr.
Nwnhaeu, llellll8lAIIaoe18, urethra, Mgn.
snur.
P•aJt!Bil o( tbe blad., Acoa. Are. J)ulc.
Hyoac. Laur.
Polypw, blad., Calc. c.
Prating p. or MD& , blad., Aoon. Ant.
tart. Am. Av. Berb. Cinch. Coleh.
Con. Laeh. OL Pula.. Rw. Sa-. Sep.
Zinc.
Purulent diseh. from the urethra, Cann.
c.atA. Cape. Clem. Con. lpeo. Nitr.
. ac. Sabin. Saa
IlMping p. (Sehriinden), urethra, Phos.
- !J9. Sod. c.
llelMA, orifice of the urethra, Calc. I.
Sulph. (comp. inflammation.)
Reltlzation, bladder, Mur. oc.
·~, urethra, Coleh. Rut. Sod. e.
8ulpti.
.Retentwn of urine, see laehury. .
&nne••· scns. of, urethra, Cop. Mar.
Mez.
~, bladder, A11a. Capt. Phos. ac.
Sass. Sep. Tereb. (eomp. conatrieting
pain.) .
&inging, bladder, Ant. tart. Lye. Sulph.
~ urethra, Ant. tart. Brue. Bry. Cann.
· Caps. Cupr. Hydr. Hydr. chi. corr.
Lye. Mang. Par. Petros. Sap. 8ulph.
Thuy. Viol. trie.
&one in the bladder, Myr. Sa.. Zinc.
Strangury, Cann. Camh. Clem. Cop.
Dros. Dule. Euph. Graph. Mgn. s.
Myr. Nw: 11. Plumb. ,Pvll. Sabin.Sec.
&aph. Stram.
Stricture of the we&bra, CleiR. Dulc.
Petr. PuJ..
- aeoa. of, Bry. Dig. Graph.
Suppuration, blad. and urethra, Canth.
Bvielling, interior of the urethra, Led.
Tox.
- oritiee of the urethra, Q,p.
7'euicm (S~nnen), bladder, Ant. am.
- urethra, Plaos.
Tlaickening of the bladder, Dolo.
Tit&Kling, urethra, :Petroe.
7\oitchi?tg, urethra, Phoe. Sod. o.
Ulcera, in tbe bladder, Ran. b.
UretArorrhagia, see l*IOd diseb. from
tMuretbra.
l¥~. blad<ler, Ngo. m. Rhm.
Urine, dilchcrp •f:
- copious, aUways,Aeth..AltMI. Amm.c.
.ug. 4IU. e. Ali· .,._._Bear. Ctlf'b.
Bism. Calc. 11. c.rb. L Cauat. Cbel
Coff. Coleh. Coloe. Cfe. Euphr. Ferr..
mgn. Hydr. Hyoac. lgll. Jod. Kram.
L!ld. Mur.ac. Plw8.ac. Pot.jod. Pot.
nitr. Rut. Sabin. 8MRIJ. &11. BeiD.
&d. c. &tl. chl. 8pig. &lpi. Val.
(comp. diaeh. inereued, and urgency
to urine, frequent, with a eopious
diaeb.)
!Trine, dilcA.of,diffieult,Ara.Cann.Canth.
Dig.Euph.Mgn.m.Plumb.Ran.b.See.
- diminished, Alum. Amb. BeD. Bry.
Carb. v. Colch. Coloc. Dule. Graph.
Grat. Ipee. Led. Mez. Op. Par. PheU.
Pula. SeiU. SeL 8en. Stann. Stroot.
Sulph. 8tllph.ac. Tereb.Tong.Verat.
- by drope only, Ca~tn. Canth. Clem.
Cop. Dros. Dule. Euph.Graph. Mgn.a.
Myr. Nw: v. Plumb. PUZ.. Sabin. See.
Staph. Stram.
- frequent, Amm.c. Anac. Ant. & Arn.
Aur. Bar.c. Bear. m. Diem. Bov. Bry;
Calc.c. Cue. C111t. CheLCupr. Euphr.
Jgn. Jod. Kram. Laeb. L£d. Lye.
Petr. Phos. Pbos. ac. Plat. Plumb.
Pot. c. Rut. Sass. Sit. 8taph. 8ulph•
Val. Zinc. (eomp. increaeed.)
- - too frequent, Hydr. Lye.
- incontinent, Bar. c. Bry. Nitr. ac.
Pulll. Spong. Tox.
- increased, Agn. Alum. Amb. Amm.m.
Berb. Canth. Caust. Clem. Coleh. Ind.
Mgn. c. Mgn.1. Mar. Nice. Oleand.
01. Pho1. Plumb. Puts. Rhm. RAotl.
&bad. See. Sen. Speng. Stront. Tab.
Tereb. Ther. (comp. copious and fre..
quent.)
- interrup~. Clem. Con. Sulpb. Zinc.
- involuntary, Aeon. Ant. tart. Arn.
.Arll. Bar.JQ. Bell. Bry. Carb. a. Carb.
Teget. Ca'Uit. Cie. Con. Dig. Dulc.
Grapb.Hydr.Hyotc. Ign. Laur.Mgn.
carb. Pula. Sod. chl. Stram. Sulph.
Tox. Ver.ct. Zinc.
- - dribbling, Am. Petr. Puhc. Spig.
- - atnight,(comp.noeturnal,below.)
- - day and night, CII'Uit.
- - when coughing, Ant. •· Caust.
Pulll. &p. Sod. ehl. Staph. Verat.
Zinc.
- - when at rest, Tox.
- - in eiuin~, Puts.
- - in 1tandmg, BeU.
- - in walking, Bry.Cauat. Pula. Sod.
chi. Zinc. .
- nocturnal, Alum. Amm. c. Amm. m.
Anac. Ant. tart. Bov. Bry. Calc. c.
()Qlc. 1. Carb.a. Carb. T. Caae. Caust.
Coff. Colt. Oufw, Dig. Graph. Jod.
Kram.. Mgn. m. Mgn. 11. Nice. Petr.
Ph08. ao. Sabia. &11. 8ep. SiL Spig.
lltd"'- Sulph. ac. Tbuy•
Digitized by Coogle
23. Urine and urinary orsms.
l!rine, dilcluwfe of:
- nocturnal, mvoluntary (Bettpiaen),
Amm.c. Artem. Calc. s. Car6. veget.
Cauat. Cinch. Con. Graph. Puis. &n.
'&p. Sil. Sod. e. Sulph.
- - - in the first sleep, Sep.
- painful, An. Bar.m. Colch. Con. Myr.
Nitr. ac. Ran. b. Uva. Zinc. ·
- rare (selten), Aman. Bell. Bry. Sec.
Stann. Strout. (comp. dillcharge di-
minished.)
- retarded, Calc. s.
- scanty, small, Aeon. AI. Aman. A.mm.
carb. Anac. Ang. Ant. s. Ant. tart.
Bry. Cann. Caust. Chel. Colch. Cupr.
Dig. Dros. Euph. Hell. Hydr. Hyosc.
Kram. Lach. Led. Mgrt.ln. Men. Nitr.
ac. Nuxv. 01. Petr. Pboe. Phos. ac.
Puis. Rut. Sabad. Sabin. Sass. Sil.
Staph.
-slow, Camph. Cinch. Plat.
- stream, divided, Cann. Canth. Tox.
- '- thin,Aman.Camph. Canth. Cinch.
Clem. Graph. Hydr. Nitr. ac. 01.
Petrol. Pula. Samb. Sass. Spong.
Staph. Sulpb. Zinc.
- S\lppreSsed, Aeon. Ar1. Aur. Bell.Jod.
&c. Stram. Sulph. Tereb. (comp.
Jschury.)
- violent, Sulph.
- wanting, see suppressed.
. Urine, flow of (Harnftuss), Aeon. Cann.
Dig. Hydr. Hyosc. Stram. Verat.
- with belly-ache, Aeon. Verat.
- with diarrh. and perspiration, Aeon.
- with hun~er, nausea,neada., coryza
and constipation, Verat.
- with thirst, Cast. Verat. -
7'9 urine, desire, effort•, urgency (Harn-
drang), in gen., Aeon. AJum. Amm.
carb. Am. Bar. c. Cann. Carb. a.
Colch. Coloe. Con. Euph. Hydr.
Hyosc. Lye. Par. Phos. ac. 8abad.
&ill. Sec. Sep. 8od. c. Sod. chl. VioL
tric.
- anxious, Aeon. Carb.v. Cham. Dig.
Graph.
- frequent, Aeon. Ant.s. Ant. tart. Arg.
Artem. ASilr. Bar. c. Bell. Bov. Caps.
Carb.v. Cau1t. Cic. Cinch. Cop. Dros.
Hell. Hydr. Hyosc. Kram. Led. Mgn.
mur. Mang. Men. Mur. ac. Nitr. ac.
01. Petr. Petro•. Phos. Pot. c. Pull.
Sabad. Sabin. Samb. SaM. SciU. /Jeri.
Sil. Spig. Stann. Staph.Stram. Sulp"h.
Tar. Thuy. Toz. Verb.
- - with a copious disch., Alum. Arg.
Artem. Bar.c. Carb.a. Colch.C1c.
Hell. Mur.ac. Pot.jod. Pot.mtr.
· &mh. ScilL Sod.c. &d. chl. ~·
Tar. Thuy. Toz. Verb. Viol. tric.
- - with umall dillcb., Amm.c. Ang.
Ant.s. Ant. tart. Caust.Cupr. Dig.
Dros. Euph. Hell. Hydr. Hyoscr.
Kram. Lam. Led. Mgn. m. Men.
Nitr. ac. Nux v. 01. Petr. Phos.
Phos. ac. Pot. c. Rut. Sabad. Sabin.
Sass. Sil. Sl'!]Jh.
To urine, desire, ejJarts, urgency (Harn-
drang), fruitless, ineffectual, Canth.
Caps. Cinch. Coloc. Cop. Dig. Hell.
Nuxv. Petros. Sass. Sep. Verat.
- painful, Aeon. Ant. tart. Bov. Cann.
Graph. Hell. Verat.
- sudden, Amb. Bar. c. Bry. Hydr.
Nitr. ac. Puis. Rut. Spong. Sulph.
Tox. (comp. Enuresis.)
- in the morning, Amb.
- in the afternoon, Bell.
- in the evening, Amm. c. Bell. Sabad.
- at night, Ant. tart. Nux v. Sabin.
Samb. Spig. Thuy. Tox.
-day and night, Carb.v. Cast.Mgn.m.
Pot.c. Pot.jod. Sass. Sod.c. Sod.chl.
- in pregnant women, Puls.
- with belly-ache, Puis.
- -pain in the bladder,Heii.Puls.Rhod.
Rut. Sulph. ac.
-- - - groin, Rhod.
- • • rerinreum, Ant. tart.
- - thirst, Ant. tart. Cast. Caust. Verat.
- • pain in the urethra, see above "pain-
ful efforts."
&fore micturition, disorders:
- bladder, preMing p., Ang. Cinch. Con.
- hips, burning in, Dule.
- nausea, Dig.
- urethra, biting and itching, Cop.
- - burning, Bry. Cop. ·
--cutting, Bry. Cantb.
Duri~ micturition, disorders:
- alvme disch., involuntary, Mur. ae.
- bladder, burning, AI. Rhm.
- - eutting, Canth.
- - pain in gen., Ant. tart.
- - pressing, Asar. Calc.a. Verat.
- - ·spasm, A11a.
- os coeeygif!, .,Wn in, Graph.
- glands, pain m, Anac. Case.
- kidneys, pain in, Rhm.
- pri'7 parts, ff'mele, pain in, Thuy.
- semmal cord, pain in, Clem.
- stomach, pain in, Laur.
- ureth':!l, .itching, Lye.
- - palft m, Colch. ·
- - - bitiRg, Canth. Clem. Hydr.
cbl.eorr.
- - - burning, AI. Alum. Cale. c.
Camph. Ccmn. Canth. Caps.
CGtUt. Clem. Colch. Cupr. I>ig.
Hydr. Mgn.e. Mar. Myr. Nitr.
ac. Nw: "; 01. Par. Ph«».
Phoe. eo. P~t. o. Puis. Rbm..
o,gitized by Google
23. Urine and urinary organs. MI
Sabad. Sabin. Sass. Sen. Sod.
carb. Sod.s. Spig. Staph. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Tereb. Thuy. Uva.
Verat. Viol. tric. .
During micturition, disorders:
- urethra, p. in, contracting, Dig.
- - - cutting,Canth. Con. Hell. Myr.
Sulph.
- - - rasping, Carb. v. Lye. Mgn. c.
Nitr. ac. Phos. Sep.
- - - rending, Nux v. Sulph.
---sore, Bov. Hydr.sulph.rub.
- - - stinging, Cupr. Cyc. Hydr.
Sen. Sulph. Thuy.
---straining (zwiingend), Ang.
Arn. Colch.
After micturition, disorders:
- bladder, pressing pain, Asar. Cinch.
Rut.
- - spasm, Assa.
- blood, disch., Calc. s. Zinc.
- glans, pain in, Anac.
- loathing and inclination to vomit,
Cast.
- nausea, Cast. Dig.
- residuary urination (Nachharnen),
Bry. Calc. s. Lach. Sel. Sil. Sod. c.
Thuy.
- - bloody, Calc. s.
- - dribbling, Thuy.
- shuddering, Jamb. Plat.
- urethra, itching, Cop. Lye.
--pain in, Bov. ·
---biting-, Cop.
- - - burmu~ Con. Hydr. Mar. Sen.
Sod. c. :sod. s. Thuy. Zinc.
- - - cutting, Canth.
- - - stinging, Hydr.
- - - straining, Ang. Scill.
Urine, quality of: .
- acrid, acrimonious, Ant. tart. Calc. s.
Caust. Graph. Jod. Laur. Verat.
- black, Colch.
- bloody, Amb. Ant. tart. Arn. Ars.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Camph. Cann. Canth.
Cinch. Con. Ipec. Mez. Mill. Nuxv.
Op. Phos. Puls. Sass. Scill. Sulph.
Tereb. Thuy. Uva. Zinc. ( comp.
blood disch. )
- brown, Aeon. Amb. Ant. s. Ant. tart.
Arn. Assa. Bell. Bry. Colch. Dig.
Hydr. Nitr. ac. Petr. Puls. Sulph. ac.
- burning, Aeon. Ars. Camph. Cann.
Caps. Carb. a. Cor. Dig. Lye. Phos.
- clay-colored, Anac. Cor. Sabad. Sass.
Sulph. ac. Zinc.
- cold, Nitr. ac.
- a cuticle forming on the surface, Jod.
Par. Phos. Sulph.
- dark-colored, Bell. Berb. Calc. carb.
Calc. s. Canth. Carb. v. Cinch. Colch.
Dig. Graph. Hydr. Jamb. Jod. Lye.
Nitr. ac. Op. Scill. Sel. Sep. Sod. c.
Staph. Strout. Verat.
Urine, quality of:
- dark- brown, Ant. tart. Colch. Dig.
Nitr. ac. Petr. Puis.
- dark-red, Ant. s. Ant. tart. Calc. s.
Hydr. Sulph. ac.
- fiery, Ant. tart. Bell. Colch. Par.
Plumb. Pot. c. Sass.
- fretid, Amb. Calc. c. Carb. a. Coloc.
Cupr. Dulc. Hydr. Nitr. ac. Petr.
Phos. ac. Rhod. Sep. Sod. bor. Sod. c.
Sulph. Viol. tric.
- acrid, Assa. Calc. c. Sod. bor.
- - like ammoniac, Strout.
- - like cat's-piss, Viol. tric.
- - sourish, Amb. Graph. Nitr.
- frothy, Larh. Laur. Sen. Spong.
- gelatinous, lumpy, Phos. ac.
- gravelly, Lye.~ Nitr. ac. Sass. Sil. ·
Zinc.
- greenish, Berb. Camph. Jod. Mgn. c.
Mgn. s. 01. Rhm.
- hot, Ars. Bry. Calc.s. Cham. Scill.
- lemon-colored, see light-yellow.
- light-colored, Ant. s. Arum. Colch.
Coloc. Dulc.Euphr. lgn. Lach. Mgn.s.
Pot. nitr. Sod. chi.
- ligbt-yellow,Aman. Ang.Berb.Cbam.
Samb. Sod. c. Tong. Verat. Zinc.
- milky, Aur. Jod. Phos. ac. (comp.
white.)
- offensise, see fretid.
- orange-colored, see light-yellow.
- pale, Aeth. Calc. s. Canth. Chel. Lam.
Mgn. c. Ol. Phell. Sass. Stront.
- purulent, Canth. Clem. Sabin. Uva.
- red, Aeon. AI. Amm. m. Ant. s. Ant.
tart. Bell. Berb. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s.
Cann. Cantb. Carb. v. Colch. Dig.
Ferr. magn. Grat. Hydr. Ipec. Petr.
Plat. Plumb. Puls. Rhm. Sass. Scill.
Sel. Sep. Staph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Tong.
- - like blood, Calc.c. Carb. v. Sep.
-slimy, Ant.s.Con. Sen. Sod.chl. Uva.
- thick, Con. Dulc. Plumb. Sabad.
Sulph. ac.
- becoming thick, Coloc. Sen.
- turbid, Amb. Anac. Ant. tart. Ars.
Bell. Calc. s. Camph. Cann. Cinch.
Con. Cyc. Hydr. Ipec. Plumb. Sabad.
Sass. Sep. Sod. c. Tox. Verat. Viol.
tric.
- becoming tu¢id, Ang. Artem. Aur.
Caust. Dulc. Ferr. magn. Graph. Grat.
Hydr. Kram. 01. Plat. Sen. Sulph.
ac. Tox. Zinc.
- like violets smelling, Myr. Tereb.
- viscid, Coloc. Cupr. Dulc.
- watery, Alum. Anac. Ant. s. Am.
Digitized by Google
412 23. Urine, &c. ·- lU. Male sexual system.
.Anua. Aur. Bam. Dry. Coce. HJ'IIIC.
Jgn. Lam. Mar. Mor. ae. PltM. Plun.
•· Plumb. Pul& 8ciU. &e. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Thuy. Tax.
Urine, qualil!f. of:
- w~YUM, t-'ye. Sec. Sulpb.
- white like milk, A:ur. Jod. Pb-. ae.
- white tUl'bid, Cann. Cloeh. Coo. Cye.
Tox.
- yellolf, eee light-yellolf.
llrine, ~etliment of, Aeon. Amb. A.m.
tart. Am. Ars. Calc. e. Coloe. Con.
Lye. Tereb. Thuy. Zinc.
- bloody, Aeon. Cann. Dule. Pboe. ae.
Sep. Sulph. ae.
- brown, Amb.
- calculi, &u. Zinc.
- elay-eolored,Berb.Cor.OJ.Tong. Zinet
- cloudy, Amb. Arum. Grat. Kram. 01.
Par. Phoe. ac. Plat. Po&. DiU. Sea..
Thuy.
- earthy, Mang.
- gelatinous, Berb. Phos.ae. Puis.
- gravelly, Lye. Nitr.ac. Sass. SiL
- gray, Spong.
l'Trifte,.'*''-' o(: llteritious, see red•
- red,l'eddiab.Aeoa. Arn.Cinch.Grapb.
lpeo. Laur. Lye. Me.;. Op. Par. Plat.
Pul& Seill. S8l 8ep. Sod. chi. Sod.e.
Sulph.
- red bodies, Ant.e. .
-reel cloudy, Amb. Pot.nitr.
- red grainy, Sel.
- red filament~~t fibJ.1e8, Ant.tart.
- red sandy, Alum. Nitr.ac. Phos. Sep.
Sil. Sod. ehl.
- alimy, Ar& Aur. Berb. Dulc. Sen.
· Bod.c.Sod.elai.Sulph.sc.Tereb.Tong.
- slimy filaments, Stm.
- thick, Hydr. Laur. Phos. ac. Spong.
Tereb.
- turbid, Con. Tox. Zinc.
- violet-colored, liang. Pule.
- white, Bar. m. CalC. c. cam... Phoa.
Phoe. ae. Sep. Spig. Spong. ttulph.
Tereb. Tong. Tox~ Zinc.
- whitish cloudy, Phoe.ac. Plat.
- whitish, turbid, Con. Tox.
- wllitieblellow, Tereb.
- yellow, yc. Phoe. Sil. Sod. s. Spong.
Tereb. .
24. Male !exoal sy-stem.
Ab1ce11 in the penis, BaY. Cramping pain, testicles, Amm. c. lgn.
..t\flercl«p,eeegonorrhC118eeeand.See.23. Nuxv. Plumb, S,,hg•
.Amorarufit•, Aeon. Ant. s. Hyosc. Op. Durin~ coition, flatulent colic, Gl"'lpb.
Stram. Verat. - enJoyment, want of, Anae. calad.
Averrion, to the other sex., Allllll. c. Plat.
- to coition, see coition. - sleepiness and llleep, BAr. e. Lye.
Balarwblennor:rhaltJ, see Blennorrlacea of .A&r coition, anxiety,·Sep;
the glans. · - burning in tbe bftelt, Mgn. m.
Bearingdown to the genitaJa,Aea.Coloe. - erections, Rhod. Sep.
Biting, glans, Nux v. - eyes, weakness of, Pot. c.
-preputium, Noxv. Pols. - fatigue, mental and bodily, s..p.
- eerotom, Ran.ee. - head, affection of, Bov. Calc. c.
BkanMThaa of the gen., eee gonorrhcea - knees, weakness of, Sep.
Sec. 23. - languor, see weakaese.
- of the glans, Cor. Hylr. Hydr•.ulph. - limbs, soreness, Sit.
rub. Lye. Mez. Nur. .c. NWII v. Sep. - nervous irritation, Petr.
Sod.e. &d.cltl. &dph. Thu,. - uighwweate, Aman.
Bloatelneu, genitabJ, Oalad. - peevishness, Set. .
Bruiring. p., scrotum, Pot. e. - perspiration, Jamb. Sod. e.
- testicles, Arg.Calc.s. Dig.Bhol. Sod.e. - ~llutione (involuntary seminal emis-
Burning, genitl:ls, :lo:v-. eioos), Rbod. Sod. chi.
- glan, Ant. tart. &rho. Nox."· Viol. tr. - prepuce, contracted behind tlie glans,
- preput., Bem. Cal4. c. Nov. Sulph. . Calad.
- ..,roblm, Butth. - reeling, Bov.
- 1pemaatic.eoild,.Berb. Maug. - late sleep, Bo~
- - vesicles, Amb. - tightneea of the elwst,-Stapll.
- ·testiclet~t P.laL Staph. - thiret., lamb;
Cluincre; Bgtk. . - - tremor, of me legtJ,. Cale~ c;
a., see goDQJ'I'IlcM Seo. 23-.. - weakness, Aman•.Berb. Calc.c. Con.
Coition, aversion to, Afn• CanL Clem. Lye. Nitr.ae. Petr. Poc.G. SeL Sep.-
Ji,yoc. Pot.c. Rw: · · · ~. ofthe gealtals, Ap. CtPm.
Crab-lice, SaW. , ' · ·· ' ' · · · Caps. · J
tihilnping,.(W...~eoJCI,Nu-\', """''Mcumt·cap.;
Digitized by Coogle
~•.Male .s~ual system.
Cc~Wneas, ... ot, on &ha pn,_._.
glaDs, JJ,pob. . . ' . •.i '
~~t,q, Eqpbr. Hydr.,~rv/1.
.J.yc. Nifr.tJC• .Phes..ac. Stap~ T4uy.
-~ .... Sabin.
· · ~che uce (P~)
W>• -~ J:'~ 8..1..1.,· T~ '
- . ~pns, Coloc._...
~ '""": ;~~~;Calad. . - biting, Lye.
~ 88D& an &heaperlll&ticcord, - elevations, Lye.
M-.v. ·-, ·. - - grwJlJI~, .Hydr.&Ulph. rub..
-til~ teatWII!~rb. Nuxv. Plwnb. - he~tic, Dulc, Petr. Saw.
Ooacti in the ~ Ars. _.. itchang, AJa. 1117· IMp. Sil.
-in the p~oe, Sulph. -miliary, Bry.
OuttiflK p., Lye. - moieteniQg,Carb.v.PhP$.ac.SilTax.
- penis, 0 .,.- red. Am. Bry. Calad. Carf>.v. Lye.,Sil.
- aisticles, Berb. Tereb. - pi'!lples!.~raph. Sil.
Drawing, glans, Jod. Lye. Pot.c. - pom~ Calad..
- penis, OL Pot. c. Ran. sc. Rhod. - specks, Am. Carb. v. Sil.
- IJ)Mlrmatie cord, Clem. Mang. Nitr. ac. - vesiculous, Pho~J. ac. 'I'ox.
Pula. Tereb. Zinc. E•citation, excitement, of the genitals,
~tee&icles,Aman.Amm.e.Cinch.Clem. Aur. Carb.v. Cocc. Coff.Graph.Lyc.
tocc. Nitr.ac. 01. Puls. Rhod. Sod. c. Plws. Plat. Sil. Sod. chi. Suiph.
Staph. Tereb. TAuy. Verat. Zinc. . - ofthe fii8XOallf)'lltem, st3e this article.
.Qraton up, testicles, Bell. Berb. E1.1pbr. Flaccidity of the genitals, Agn. c-rad.
].liux v. ot. Plumb. Rhod. Thuy. Ziw:. Hell.
Dryness, glans, Calad. Fretting !fen& in ths testiQlea, Plat.
Erections, in general, Amm. m. Anac. Galled (excoriated, sore, W undheit ),
Arn. Canth. I>ig. Euph. Ferr. Hydr. glans, Sod. c.
lgn. Kreo.. Led. Mg'!l. m. Nuxv. -prepuce, Cat.Z.Ign. Mur.ac. Nuxv.
Onisc. Op. Pbos. ac. Plat. Plumb. Sil. Sod. c. Verat.
Pot. c. Pids. Rnn. b. Sen. Sep. Sil. - scrotum, Ara. Patr. Plumb. Sod. c.
&d.c. &d.chl. Stafh. Tab. Tar. Viol. Sulph. .
trie. (eomp. sexua ~assion excited, - bet~a the tlUghs, &r. c. Calc. &
with mnny erections. Hydr. Hydr.mlflh. ru(). Lye. Nitr. ac.
- deficient, see want o , below. Petr. Sed.chi. $ulph. (comp. Sec. 25,
- too easily excited, Lye. Nuxv. Pbos. 84.) ,
Sabin. Gangrene, gen., Ars. Cat'IIA. Laur.
- insufficient, Con. Gnawing, test., Phoe.. ac.
- painful, Calc. s. Cann. Canth. Hydr. GonorrlifBa, see Sec. ~'3.
lgn. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Pot. cqrb. Puls. From gonorrhtP4J SU])~, affection
.Sabad. Sen. Sod. c. Thuy. of the te!!L, Ag~. C1anth. Clem. Puls.
- too short, Calc.c. Con. Hair falling off from the gen., Nitr. ac.
- too strong, Canth. Kreos. Phos. Puls. Sass.
Sabin. Tar. (comp. Priapism.) Hanging down, testicles, Cinch. Nitr. ae.
- without. auy voluptuous irritation, Puis. Sil. Sulph;
.Amb. Jamb. Phos. ac. Sabael. Spig. Hardness, test., Ag11. Arn. Nux v.Spong.
- want of, Agn. Caust. Con. Graph. (comp. indnratipD.) .
Lye. l\Grn. c. Mar. Myr. Nitr.ac.Pot. Heavine1s, test., Amm.c. Socl.c.
(l!U'b. Rliod. Spong. Herpetic erupt.ioa, geu., Dulc•
.._. - in •he morning, Graph. - pcepuoe.. Sees.
- too weak, Aman. Bar. c. Calc. c. Lye. - scrot., Pe$r.
SeL SulJ?b· · . - between tbe thighs, Petr. Sod. chi.
Erections, m the morning, Amb., ~ .Hydroc~~~-Arn. Graph. Nu:n. Pul&8il.
Nuxv. Phos. Tb.uy.
1
.~ .. ~~
- inthee..-ening,Hy,dr.sulph. • ·.Vbos. Impotence, ~ Calad. CtlmJ>h. Cann.
- at uight• Alum. Aur. Jlydr. J~. ae. Caps. Ollcie. CoR•.HyO&C•.Jamb. Lgc.
01. Par. Plat. Plumb. Sod. e. ScicL.ehL M~tr. sc.Myr.~· &l.Sod.chi. Stram.
Staph. Tkuy. Tox. Zinc. Sulph. (Plumb. .)
- with urgency to stool, Thuy. - chronic, Lvc.
- when voiding stool, lgn. Induration, of the testicles, Aur. Clam.
Eruption, on the genitals, Tox. · Jotl. RAotl; (comp. hardnees.)
47 .
Eraptiont.oa ~~Brv.Caled.Hydr.
. -ll..nt~,Ly~ .&tp. 'tox. .
- on the penis, Graph, Pbos. fJe•
~ • p~p-uqe,Grap)t.Ph~ac.S..Sep.
Sal,.; - . . . .
- - scrotum, Pet.'.·Phoe. ae. Tox. .
- betwlllm tt.l tbips, Pek. '
Digitized by Coogle
24. Male sexual system.
Indurotitm, ofthe proatata, JoeL
~rnmation, ofthegenitale, Are. Canth.
Hydr. Plumb.
- ofthe f!L• Arn. Are. Cann. Cupr.
Hydr. Sue. Sod.e. Tox.
- penis, Cann. Plumb.
- - lymphatic glands, Hydr.
- prepuce, Calc.e. Gmn. Hydr. Nit.r.ae.
Sod. e. Sulph.
- proetata, PvU.
- ecrotum, Art. Phoe. ae. Plumb.
- - erysipelatous, Ar1.
- teetielea, Clem. Nitr. ae. Nwn. PvU.
Staph.
Itching, ~n., Aman. Amb. Ang. Berb.
Euphr. Ign. Mgn. m. Nit.r. ae. 8eL
Sep. Sod.•.
- glans,Caon.Euphr.Ferr.magn.Mang.
Nuxv. Sil
- penis, Cann. Ign.
- prepuce, Cann. E~ph. .Euphr. Nitr.
ae. Nuxv. Pula. V10l. t.rie.
- ecrotum, Coec. Ferr. magn. Mr. m.
Petr. Pot. e. Pula. Rhoil. Se Sil
·staph.
- aeuiinal chord, Mang.
- between the thigb8, Carb. v. Petr.
Sod.ebL
- voluptuOWI, Eu~. Euphr. Staph.
- in the morning, Pula.
- in the evening, Ign. Puis.
Ltu:it~_ofthe genitals, Agn. Calad. HelL
IAuf!Vlnsu, Calc.c. Carb.11. OincA.Graph.
Moilmel1, ecrotum, Petr. Sil. Sulph.
- between the thighs, Bar. e. Calc. •·
Carb. v. Petr.
Ptrinjulneu, prepuce, Cor. Sabin.
- testicles, Arn. AlBa. Aur. Cann. Cocc.
Ign. OL Phoe. ae. Sep. Tar. Zinc.
Perlpiration, genit., Clilad. Cor. Hydr.
Sep. Sulph. Thuy.
- ecrotum, Ign. Rhod. Sep. SiL Sod. s.
· Thuy.
- between the thighs, Hydr.sulph.rub.
PAimolil, Hydr. Nitr. ac. Sabin. SulpA.
· ToL (comp. swelling.)
Pollutitnll*) (invol. seminal emissions),
Altm~. Auim. e. Anae. Ant. s. Arg.
Aur. BeU. Bism. Calc. c. Carb. L
Caust. OincA. Con. Cor. Dig. Ferr.
Led. Nwc "· OL Op. Par. Petros.
PAol. ae. Pull. Ran. b. Ran. sc. Rut.
~·Sod. e. Sod.chi. SulpA.Tar.Thuy.
Verb. Viol.od. Viol. trie.
- bloody, Caust. Hydr. Led.
- easily excited in the day-time,Canth.
Graph.
Pollutionl, euily ~cited in theday-time,
without erections, Graph.
- frequent, Amm. c. Bar. m. &m. Cale.
carb. Carb. s. Carb. v. Caust. f'.cm.
J>ig. Ferr. Lye. Nit.r. ac. Nux v. Op.
Petr. Phoe. Pkol. cac, Plumb. Pot. c.
Pull. Sass. &p. Sod. carb. Sod. chi.
Stann. &apA.
- too frequent, Carb.v. Con. Lye. Nitr.
ae. PAol. Pot. c.
- painful, Calc. c. Clem. Sass. Thuy.
-wanting, Cale.c. Lye. Pot. e.
- after onanism, Cinch. Sep.
- with amorous dreams, Led. Par.
- without amorous dreams, Bism.
- with a flabby penis, Bell. Calad. Con.
Sabsd. SeL
- during sleep in the afternoon, Caust.
Clem. Hydr. Phos. Sulph.
After)l!'llutwn~, disorders (eomp. after
co1tion), affection of the heaAI, Bov.
Cale.e. ·
- anxiousneas, Carb. s.
- brain as ifJl811ially pa)sied, SiL
- burning in the urethra, Carb.v. Hydr.
- eoldneas, general, Hydr.
- constipation, Thuy.
- erections, Are. Grat. Rhod.
- eyes, weakness of, Pot. c.
- fatigue, Sep. Viol.od.
- heat, anxions, Petr.
- hypoebondres, tension in, Aman.
- increase ofall complaints, Alum.
- loins, weakness in, Phos.
- peevishneas, Sod. e.
- aexua_l puaion excited, Mez.
- sluggisb~eas, Sep. Sod. c.
Pre•mre (Driieken, Preesen), penis,
VioLtrie.
- spermatic cord, Spong.
- testicles, Aur. &rb. ~ Calc. c.
Cann.Carb.v.Caust.Jgn. Pull.Sebad.
Scill. Sod.e. Spong. Staph. .
~"', ColOc. Gf'apA. Pboe. Plat.
Pull. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. cAl. ·
Prickling, glans, Mez.
ProBt4tic ftuid escaping, Ancac. BelL Ctllc.
BvlpA. Dig. Euph._Lye. Myr. Nit.r.ae.
.Petr. Phoe. ae. Puis. Sel. /!lefl. 8iL
Sod.e. Spig. Staph. SulpA.Tab.'rhuy.
Zine.
- with the stool, Anae. Carb.v. CaWIL
Sel. Sil. Sulph.
- - difficult, Ago. Alum. Amm. c.
Anae. Calc.a. Sep. Sod. e. Staph.
-with the urine, Anae. Calc. I. Sep.
Sod. e. Sulph. ·
- without erection, Aur. BelL
*) Thio word io aupte4 here ao a tuAroical ,,,.., ••o4 ia the Orisiaal aa4 otker Geraaa meolical
worko,he Ito meni•rl•the co•••• """ wkatenrilaay.
24. Male sexual system.
PwlHliort., peois, Cop.
RturrittJr p. between the thbths, Calc. s.
BJraeil, glans, An. Calad. Cann. Sabin.
Sus. ·.
- penis, Cann.
- prepuce, Calc.c. Cann. Hydr.Hylr.
nlpia. rub. Sil. Sulph.
- ecrotum, Am. Petr. Pula.
- between the thighs, Petr.
Rmli¥, glans, Euph. PoL c.
- peiW!, Mez. PoL c.
- 881Dinal cord,·Colch. Puis.
- testicles, Euph. Pule. Staph.
&.mud tlueluJrge in general:
- bloody, CaWIL Hydr. Led.
.- easily excited in the day-time,Canth.
Graph.
- - without erections, Graph.
- painful, Calc.c. Clem. Sus. Thuy.
&ririnal ducharge during coition:
- miling,Calad.Graph.Iamb. Lye.Peor.
- inaufficient, Aman. Berb. Plumb.
- too late, Calc. e. Jamb. Lye. Zinc.
- ~werlea, Calc. e. Con. Phoe. Sod.
chi. Sulph. ac.
- too quick, too early, Berb. Calad.
Carb. v. Con. Lye. Phoe. PiaL Sel.
Sulph. Zinc.
&men drillbling out, Cauth.
- dUJing alvine evacuations, Phoe. ac.
- ineleep,SeL
&rtainal emiuiou, involuntary, eee Pol-
lutions.
&!uitiwefteft ofthe ~niL, Cocc. VeraL
llutMJlpta~eitm, tliminillaed, Aeon. Ber.c.
Bell. Mgn. c. Mar. Op. Petr. Sabed.
Spong.
- Uicretiled, Aman. Amm. carb. Am.
Ant. s. Aur. Bov. ('Aile. CM'b. Ccmt.l.
Carb. v. CaWIL Cinch. Cocc. Cojf.
Dilr. Ferr. Graph. Hytlr. Hytlr.nlph.
m. Jgn. JOt!.. Lilch. LBur. Lye.
Mang. Men. Mench. Nitr. ac. Nu:n.
91J. Par. Phcn. Plat. PoL uitr. PtAU.
Rut. Babin. Sua. Sen. Sep. 8il. &d. e.
&d. chl. Sod.s. Stann. Staph. Sulph.
Zinc.
- ueitement cif, euy, Lye. Nuxv. Phoe.
PoLe.
- exceadve, ·Alum. Coloc. Lye. Plat.
Plumb. Pol. c. Sil. &d. c. &d. cAl.
Ther. Zinc.
- lustful, Oinei\. Con. Hvtlr.
- ltrollg, Amm. c. Ccmtl. Ferr. magn.
lAch. Mo1ci\. Nux v. Pot. c. .
- - with many erections, Ctm.tA. Dig.
Ferr. Hydr. Nux v. Op. PiaL
• Plumb. Pull. Sabin. Sen.Sep.Sil.
&d. c. Sod. chl. s!'ii·
.Staph.
- - witbpollutions, · . Ferr. Nvzv.
Op. Plumb. Sa8s. e.
8ezual pt~~lioft, e~ of, etrong,
with prostatic ftuid, Nitr. ac.
- wanton, with inelin. to cohabit,AnLs.
Calc.c. Con. Jan. Lacl. Nitr. ac. Phoe.
Puis. Sass. Sil Sod. chi. Spis'. Stram.
Zinc.
-with weakness of &eulty, A...,..
Amm.e. Graph. lgn. Men. SeL
&zual ~ toantmg, suppreeeed,
Agn. Alum. Berb. Calc. c. CampA.
Carb. s. Ferr. magn. Graph. Hell. Ign.
J.A,Jc. Mur. ae. Myr. Nitr. GC. Phoe. ac.
Pol. c. SiL Sulph. .
8ezual potoer, impotent, see lmpole!lee.
- weak, Bar. c. Calad. Calc.c. Ign.
Myr. 8ep. Sil. Sulph.
&ivering, eeroL, Zinc.
8hrinlcing, eeroL, with coldness and
pain in the testielee, Berb.
&we pain, peuie, Am.
- prepuce, Cor.
- BCrotum, Zinc.
- between the this'hs, RAod.
Bpamaodic p., geuiL, Graph.
- teeticlee, Spong.
Spot., on the glans, itching, Am.
- - moistening, ISIDOOth; Carb. v.
- - red, Arn. Carb. v. 8il.
- on the prepuce, Tox.
8tenei\ of the gen., Sus. Sulph.
Stinging' glaDs, Berb. Eliph. Euphr.
Ferr:~. Lye. Mez. Plioe.ac.Raa.
ec. Rhod. Sabin. Sulph.
- penis, Berb. Mez. Ol. Sulph. Thuy.
VioL tric.
- prepuce, Euphr. Pula.
- BCrotum, Ferr. magn. Hydr. Sulph.
Thuy.
__ spermatic cord, Amm.m. Am. Berb.
GraL Nuxv. Thui- .
- testicles,Am. Bell.Herb. CanaLNuxv.
Rhod. StaJ!h.
BrDelling, gemtals, Al'IL Lye. Plumb.
- alan8, Ar•. Caun. Hydr. Sod.e. Thuy.
'To.zo•.
- - oneeided, Spig.
- penis, Am. Cann. Cupr. Hydr.sulph.
rub. Plumb.
- - lymphatic glands, Hytlr.
- - on the ridge, Sabin.
-prepuce, CaliJd. Cann. Cor. Graph.
Hyilr. Hydr. ftllpi\. nib. Nitr. ac. SiL
SOd. c. 8ulph. Thuy. To.zo. VioL trie.
- - on the frenulum, Sabin.
- acrotum, Am. Phos.ac. Plumb. Pula.
Sep. Tox.
- spermatic cord, Berb. Cinch. Nitr. ac.
Phos. ac. PoL c. Puis. Spong. ·
- testicles, Agn. Am. Aur. Bar. mur.
Canth. Cinch. Clem. Con. Dflr, Hydr.
Jod.Mez. Nitr. GC. Nw:n. 01. Phos.ac.
PoLe.Puis. RAod. Sport,.Sulph.Zinc.
Digitized by Coogle
M6 24. Male sexual system.- 25. Female sexual system.
8'1116l1ing, bluish-red, Am. Ars.
- hard, A§"i. Ana. Nux v. Phoe. ac.
Sabin. 8ptnt.g.
- hot,'Arn. Pot. c.
- hydropic, Lye.
- a!dematous, Graph.
- painful, Arlt. Aur. Canth. Hydr. Nit.r.
ac. Nuxv. Ol
- from a bruise, Con.
8JC08U,seecondylomataandeomp.Sec.I.
IJJphilis, see chancre, and eomp. See. 1.
Tension, genit, Graph.
- glans, Pot. c.
- penis, Arn. Pot. e.
- eerot., Am. ·
- sperm. cord, Cann.
Thickening of the ecrotal skiD, Clem.
Tox.
Throbbing:, glans, Rhod.
- seminal cord, Amm. m.
Tingling, gen., Sel.
- glans, Ant. tart. S~.
- prepuce, Phoe. ac.
Tingli~, eerot., Aeon. Bel.
- testiclee, Eupbr.
7\oitcking, pems, Mez.
- eeminill cord, Mang. Plumb.
Ulcers, glans, Cor. Hydr. Nitr. ac. Sep.
Sulph.
- prepuce, Calc. & Cor. Hydr. Nitr. ac.
Sep. Sulph. Thuy.
- fiat, red, Cor.
- chancre, Hydr. .
- cbancr~like, Calc.a. Hydr. Nib-. tiC.
Thuy.
- deep, Sulph.
mcerOUB pcia, prepuce, Jgn.
VoluptUOUB irritation, genit., Amb. An«.
Graph. Plat. (eomp. itching, volup-
tuous.) •
Warmth, eens. of; gen., Sulph.ac.
W~ of the &el&icles, Agn. 7 CMJSt.'!
Jod.1 Zinc.1
Weabels, genit., Agn. Berb. Calc. s.
Mang. sep. 8ulpi.
25. Female se:Xual system.
Abortiolt, AI. A,... Calc. e. ea;.,..Oau..._ Blttod, flmlarge of, duriug and bel!lldes
Carb.v. Oineb.CJ'OC'- Ferr.Ipee. Kram. the catamenia. .· .
Lye. Myr. Nuxv. Plat. Plumb. &bitt. - excoriating, Sil. Sod.&
8ec. &p. 8il. 8ulpll. Zinc. - fetid, Bell.
- with.oonvullione, Cann. - hh-colored (rellelllblius dJe wasJt.
- with diatention oftbe.uterus, See. ' ings offiesh), Stront.
- with varioes on tbe pudenda,Carb.v. -by jerb, Cham. Pula. Sa&ain. .
Lye. Zinc. .· - itching, Petr.
Aftef'!"'ngB, too long, Arn. Calc.e. Puls. - lumpy, Am. BeD. Callllt.CAIJM; Ferr.
- painfuland stroug;Arn. Calc.c. Cham. . MgD. m. Plat. Puis. Sabin. 8tnm.
Co.ff. Ntuv. Puis. . · Stroot. "
AmenorrhauJ, see catamenia suppreteecl. - too pale, Bell. Carb. v. Grapi. 8alph.
Aphllus, Carb. v. - pitch-like, Mgn. c.
Aversion to coition, wee coition. - 8limf, Cooo. Puis. Sulph. ac.
Beoring doum, see pret!BUre. - sour I!Dlelling, Sulph. ·
Bi_ting, genitals, Staph. Thuy. - ~b, Croc.
Blood, eongeetibn to the ~n., BeD. Dry. - 'Yiee1d, Mgn. c. .
Calc. •· OincA. Croc. Hydr. Nu:x:11. - watery, Ant. tart. Phos.
Plat. &bin. Sec. Sulph. . Burning, gen., Amb. Bry.Cale. e. Carb.v.
Blood discharged during the intervale, Lye. Nitr. ac. Nux v. Pot. e. Sulph.
Amb. Am. BeU. &111. Bry. Calc.e. Tbuy.
Calc.s. Cham. Cinch. Cocc: Co&: - uterus, Bry.
- during lactation, Sil. - vagina, Berb.
- during pregDancy, Coc:c. Pbos. Pet.e. Cancer of the uterus, Ars. BeU. Jod. Sec.
Tox.· Catamenia, see at the close of this Sec.
Blt»d, M.ch.Grge of, during and besides To cohabit, external irritation,.Sulph.ac.
tile catamenia; acrid, Amm. c. Pot.c. Coition, aversion tO, Caust. Petr. Pot. c.
Sass. Sod.& Sod. chi.
- black, dark, Amm. c. Bry. Canth. During coition, pain in the qgiaa, Lye.
Cham. Croc. Ferr. Mgn. c. Mgtt.m. Pot. c.
Mgn. s. Myr. OL Plat. Pot. nitr. Pula. Omgestion, aee blood.
Sel. Stram. (Bell.1) Contraction, Ign. Sabin. Sep. Thuy.
- bright-red, .8eU. Hyo!JC. 8ttbin.. Crrl.mps, see uterine crampe.
- burnins, SiL·. . . l' Cutting, oe uteri, Pula.
- clotted,~ated,Cham.Puls.SaiHn. Deformed os uteri, Sod. c.
Sod. e. Bti'Ul. Drawing, Moeeh.
Digitized by Coogle
25. Female sexual syste,m. 551
Droply ofthe ovaria, Hydr.
·f!rine,, vagina, Bell. Lye.
Eruption, Ant. tart. Dry. Graph. Nux v.
Sep.
- frettiug, Nux v.
- itcbiug, Nun. &p.
-moistening, Sep.
- pimples, Ant. &art. Graph.
- pUBtules, black, Dry.
- vesieuloUB, Graph.
.Ezcoriation, see sorenees.
Fulnu., aen11. of, Cinch.
(hmgrmaa uteri, See.
HtMIWf"fltJgefrom&be uterus,aeeMetror-
He!t~v. Sep.
Heavine11, aena. of, Nux v.
Herpu, genit., Dule. Petr.
Induration oftbeuterUB, Aur. BeU.OincA.
Jod. Mpt. m. Plat. Sep.
~won, ofthe labia pudendi, Aeon.
BelL Calc. e. Hydr. Nuxv. Sulph.
- ovaria, Aeon. Amb. Ant. 111. Canth.
Cinch. Hydr. Staph. ·
- uterus, Aeon. BeU. Cham. Hydr.
Nux v. Pulll. See. Tox.
ltelaing, Amh. Calc.c. Carb.11. Cof£ CMI.
Lye. Nitr. ae. Petr. Pot.e. &p. Sil.
&d. elal. Smph. Sulph. Thuy.
- voluptuous, Cof£ Prat.
Labour, aee throes.
.~ltaa, in general, Alum. Amb.
Amm.c. Calc. c. Carb. a. Carb. 11. eau.t.
Oinch. Cocc. Cof£ CMI. Graph. Hrdr.
Hydr. sulph. rub. Kram. Lam. ~·
MK71. c. Mgn. m. Mgn.s. Nice. N1tr.
ae. 01. Phos. Plumb. Pot. e. Pot. nitr.
Pula. Sabin. Sep. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. clal.
Sod. s. Stann. Hulph. Sulph.ne. Thuy.
Viol. trie.
-acrid, Alum. Amm. e. Ant.s. Ars.
Btn1. CMI. Pot. jod. Pule. Ran. Sil.
Sod.chi.Sulph.ae.(eomp.excoriating.)
- .biting, Ant. e. Carb. a. Cham. Con.
Hydr. Lam. Mgn. e. Phos. Sulph.
- bloody, Ant. tart. Cinch. Cocc. SUiph.
acid.
- brown, Amm. m. Nitr. ae. .
- burning, Amm. e. Calc. c. Carb. a.
Cast. COn. Mgn. s. Pot.c. Pulll.Suiph.
acid.
- debilitating, Stann.
- excoriating, Alum. Amm. c. Anae.
Ars. Bov. Carb. v. Cinch. Con. Ferr.
Jgn. Pot.jod. Sep. Sil. Sulph.
- flesh-colored (like the washings of
flesh), Alum. Cocc. Nitr. ac. Sep.
- fretid, Nitr. ac. Nuxv. Sabin.
-glairy, Mez. Petr.
- p-eenish, Bov. Carb. v. Hydr. Sep.
- Jtching, Alum. Anac. Calc. c. Cinch.
- long-continued, Kreos. Mez.
Leucorrltaa, malignant, Mez.
- milky, Calc. e. Carb. v. Ferr. Lye.
. Pule: Sil. Sulph. ae.
- painful, Sep.
·- pellucid, Stann.
- purulent,Cinch. Cocc. Hydr. lgl!.Sep.
- putrid smelling, Nitr. ae. Sep. Sod.e.
- rasping, Alum. Calc. s.
- reddish, Lye. Nitr. ae. &p.
- by shocks diseh., Sil.
-slimy, Amm. m. Cocc. Diet. Mgn.e.
Nitr.ae. Nuxv. 01. Sus. Sen. Stann.
Sulph. Zinc.
- stiffening the linen, Pot. nitr.
- thick, Carb. v. Mgn. s. Puis. SabiD.
Sod. e. Tong. Zinc.
- thin, Graph. 01. Pot. nitr.
- tou~b, viscid, Aeon. Diet.
- vesJeating, Ph011.
-watery, Alum. Amm. e. Ant. &art.
Carb. a. Cinch. Ferr. Hydr. ~c.
Mgn. m. Mez. Sep. Sil. Suiph. ae. Tab.
- weakening, Stann.
- white, Graph. Mgn. e. Pot. nitr. Sulph.
- yellow, Aeon. Carb. v. Cham. Hydr.
ehl. eorr. Lye. Nux v. Sabin. Sep.
Sod. c. Sulpb.
- yellow staining, Carb.a.
- at night, Caust.
- with amenorrhrea, Sabin.
- by beliJ-aehe preceded, Con. Hydr.
Kram. Lye. Mgn. m. Pot.e. Pulll. Sil.
Sod. e. Sod. ebl. Sulph. Zinc.
~ beforecatamenia,Arum. Bar.e. Calc.e.
Carb. v. Cinch. Puis.
- after catamenia, Alum.Hydr.Phos.ac.
- after coition, Sod. e. .
- when exercising, Mgn. m. Mgn. e.
- by hystf'ric cramps preceded, lgn.
MP.·e. Mgn. m.
- w1th the stool, Tong.
- in walking, Tong.
- when p888ing water, Tong.
attended by:
- abdomen, distention of, Graph.
- - painfulnees, Lye. Puis. Sil.
-countenance, yellow, Sod. chi.
- genitala, stitelies, Sep.
.;_ regs, soren888 of, Mgn. 8.
- aaeral region, pain in, Mgn. s. Pot. e.
Pot. nitr.
Lochia, abnormoUB, Calc.& Cineh.
- turning bloody again, Tox.
- too copious, Dry. Calc. e. Croe. Plat.
- fretid, Bell. Carb. a. .
~ too long continued , protracted, See.
- too small, BeD.
- sup~, Coloe. Hyose. N11X v.
Plat. See. Verat. Zinc.
- - aftervexation,Coloe.(comp.See.l.)
- - wi&b delirium, VeraL
Digitized by Coogle
~5. Female sexual system. •
LocAia, too thin, Carb. a.
--.... menstruation, letl eatameaia •*·
the cl088 of iliia Seolioo. ·.
.MetriiV, ~ inflammation.
M«rorr
_ hap, Aeon. AI. Ant. s. Artem.
BtU. ~Calc. c. Clum&. Oincla.Cinn.
.• booO,Qo.J: Oop. Croc. Ep. Ferr. Hyosc.
lJln. Ipec.JoJ. Krtw~. Lr.c.MiU. Myr.
Plct. PW.. &biR. Scill. Sec. Sep.
8il. .Sod. c. &ram. Suiph. Sulph. ac.
- after abortion, Plat. ·
- after chamomilla misused, Cinch.
- when exercising, disch., Sec.
- afterdelivery~ BeU.Cbam.Cincb.Oinn.
(}roc. Ipec. Nuxv. PU.t. Sabia.
- with abdomen, clietention of. Calc.s.
- - painfulnese, Ferr. Sabin.
- with bearing down towards the geni-
tals, Bell. Cham. Sabin.
- with agitation of the blood and red-
neu of countenance, Ferr.
- l'ith.beada. andp. inthe sacr. reg.Bry.
Milk-fever, see Sec. 31.
MNc.mcwe, see Abortion.
MorlijicattOn of the uterus, Sec.
NvmfllumulniiJ, Bell. Cinch, Gf'at. Plat.
V"erat. Zinc.
(JGritis, see inflammation.
PainfulneBB, Staph.
Pangs, see throes.
Plr.legmtUia albtl dolem, see Sec. 34.
"white leg".
Plccent~ adhering, Sec.
l'reu&"'f down, towards the genitals,
Aasa. Bell. Calc. c. Cinch. Con. Croo.
Grapb. lpec. Kram. Mgn. c. Mosch.
Mur. ac. Nux v. Plat. Pot. c. Sabin.
&p. 8ulph. Thuy. Zinc.
Prolarmu, oftheuterua, Alum. Aur. Bell.
Calc. c. Nuxv. &p. (Stann.~)
- of the vagina, Ilydr. Nux v.
Ptutule•, black, on the pudenda, Bry.
Puerperal fever, Aeon. Arn. Ars. Bell.
Bry. Cham. Coff. Coloo. Hydr. Hyosc.
.Ipee. Nux v. Plat. Pv.lB. Sec. Stram.
To.:r. Verat.
- with fulness of the miUIUDlll, Bry.
Reifaua, pudenda, Calc. c.
&ruli"'f, genitals, Ph011.
Senritiveneu , tenderne.I!S , Coff. Sec.
&~ph.~=, excited, Bell. Cinch:
Ci.tut'Ceff. Grot. Plat. Sabin. Verat.
Zinc. (comp. Sec. 24.)
- - in lying-in women, J;Jell. Oinch.
Grat. Plat. Verat..Zine.
- tirninished, Bar.c, Bell. (comp. aver-
sion to coition and Sec. 24.)
.......,., plle4, pudenda, Berb. Calc. 1.
C..rb. 11, Gf'apJa.. L:yc. Nitr. ac. Petr.
.~· ~· e. Sulpll,. Thu". (comp.
"L8w:Orrh<Ba exeqriating.')
8ortmeBI, between Ole thighs, Cale. s.
Graph. Lye. Nitr. ac. Petr. Sep. Sod. c.
(comp. ibid. and Sec. 24, 34.)
SpalfiiOdic pain, gen., Thuy•
Squeezing p. in the cavity of the pelvis,
Bar.m.
Sterility, As-n. .A.mm. c. Calc. c. Cana.
Caust. C1c, Con. Croe. Dulc. Ferr.
Fil. Graph. llydr. Hy011c. PhOII. Plat..
RuL Sep. Sod. c. &d. clll. 8ulpl.
Sulph.ac.
- from excessi'Ye lustfulness, PhOII.
- with catamenia too oopioWI, OGle. c.
Hydr. &d. cAL Sulpla. Sulph. ac.
- - too early, Calc. c. Sod. cAL Mulph.
Sulph.ac.
- - ret8rded, CaulK. Gf'ap1.
- - too small, Amm. c.
- - suppreesed, Con.
Stinging, Calc. c. Con. lSitr. ac. PhOII.
Pot. c. Sep. Staph. Thuy. Tox.
- .trom the perimeumdeep int,o the gen-
itals. Berb. ·
8wellin~, os uteri, Canth. ~.
- ovanwn, Graph. ..
- pudenda, Bry. Calc, c. Carb. v. Sec.
Thuy.
Teruienu:•• of the vagina, Berb.
Tingling, prickling, volue_tuous, Plat.
Throes, false, Bell. Myr. Up. PW..
- too long, Puis.
- spasmodic', Bell. Myr. {)fJ. Pvh.
- too strong, Co.ff. Nux v. Ptdl.
- spuriollll, see fall5e.
- supprel!lled and wanting, Op. Puis.
. Sec.
- too week, powMlels, Myr. Pul.. ,
Throe1 after parturition, see Aftelpllngs.
Ulcer1, Nitr. ac. Sep. (comp. Sec. 24.)
Uterine cramps, Caust. Cooc. Con. lgn.
M,gn. m. Stann. (comp. Sec. 21, hya-
teric CJ:&mps.)
Vcwice« on the ~encla, CaL:.c. Carb. v.
Lye. Nuxv. ~ioo. , · ·
Vol~ i~g and tinglillg, Coff.
PlaJ.
Wart• on the .os uteri, Sec. Thuy.
Wind discharged from the ngina, Lye.
Myr.
Catamenia:
- too copious, abundant, AL Aman.
Amrn.c. An. Artem. Bell. Bov. Calc.~:.
Canth. Carb. 11. Caul. Clul. Cine/a.
Orot;. Dule. Hydr. llyoBC. Kram. Laur.
Led. Lye. Mgn. m. Mgo. s. Mo•cl&.
Pho1. Plat. Pot. jod. Pot. nitr. Rhod.
Saba~. Sabin. 8amb. Sec. SeP. 8il.
Sod. chl. Spong. Stann. Stram. ;sulpA.
Sulpk. ac. Tab. Tox. Verat.
-:- too early, Alum. Amb. Amm. o. Arnra.
mur. Am. Ar1. Artem. Ass&. Bell.
Digitized by Google
25. Female sexual system. 569
Bov. Bry. Calc. c. C..t.\. Carb. a.
Carb. v. am.t. Cocc. Colch. Coloc.
Croc. Grat. Ign. Jod. Lam.lAur. Led.
Lye. .Mgn. m. M.4rn.'· Mang. MCH!Ch.
Mur. ac. Nice. Nitr. ac. Nwc "· Ol.
Par. Petr. PMU. PM.. Plat. Pot.c.
Pot. nitr. Pula. RJwd. Sep. Sil. &d.
chL Spong. Staph. Sulph. Sulph. ac.
Toug. Toz. Verat. Zinc.
c.tGmenia, interrupted, only at night,
Bov.
- - only in the day-time, CaWit.
- irregular, Myr.
- too late, Amm. c. Calc.e. Caut. CheL
Cic. Dule. Graph. lgn. Jod. Lye.
Mgn.c. Pot.e. P.t.. Sabad. Saas.SiL
&d. chl. &d. '· 8ti'Ont. Sulph. Tab.
Tereb. Zinc.
- too long, protracted, Acn. ~rat.
Kram. Lye. Nwcv. PIQ. Pial. Sabael.
&c. Sil. &d.c1&l. Suiph.ac. Tox.
- retarded, the fint time in young .fe..
m•lee, Caust. Graph. Petr. Pot. c.
Pull. Sod. chL
- too weak, amall, Alum. Amm.c. .A8IL
Bar. c. Berb. Caust. Con. Graph.
Hydr. Lye. Mgn. e. Nice. OL Phoe.
Pot.c. Sass. Sep. Sil. &tl.chL Sulph.
Tereb. Thuy.
- too short, Alum. Amm. e. Bar. e.
Berb. Hydr. Nice. Phoe. Plat.
- auppreseed, wanting (A.mennorrh.).
Agn. Ars. Bry. Calc. c. Con. Graph.
Hydr. HyCH!C. Lye. Mgn.e. Mgo.m.
Mez. Nitr. ac. Pot.c. Pv.U. RAod. See.
&p. Sil. Sod.chl. Sulph. Verat. Zinc.
- - for a long time, Lye. Sil.
- after fright, Lye.
- - in plethoric individ., Calc. e.
--with belly-ache, Agn.
- - with epiatuia, IkJ.
'
Before catamenia (eat. preceded by):
Disorders in general, Alum. Jod.
- abdominal erampe, Carb.v. Hy08C.
- - heavinee., PUle.
- - pains, Alum. Amm.c. Bar.e. Pia&.
Pot. nitr. Pula. Sep.
- anxiety, anxiousn888, Staon.
- back, pain in, Spong. .
- blood, agitation o~ Cupr. Hydr.
- chilliness, Lye. Puis.
- cramps, hysteric, Hyo«:.
- di&rrhcea, Sil.
- delefulnees, Sod. chl. 8taDD.
- epistaxis, Sulph. Verat.
- ffetfulnet!8, Sod. chi.
- gaping, Puis.
- genitals, contraction in, Cinch.
- - P!ied, Sep.
- - itching, Sldph• .
- - p1'81111ure in, Plat.
Bifore cstamet~itl (cat. preoeded by):
- giddinei!B, Verat.
- gums swollen, Bar. c.
- headache, Carb. v. Cupr. Ferr. Sod.
cbl. Sulph. ·Verat.
- head, congestion to, Hydr.
- heart,palpitationof,Cupr.Jod.Spong.
- heat, dry, Hydr.
- hysteric fits, Hyo.c.
- languor, Jod. Myr.
- to laugh, dispoeition, Hyoac.
- legs, heavy, Bar. e.
- leueorrhcea, Alum. Bar. e. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Cinch. Puis.
- liver, pain in, Myr.
- mamm111, painful, Calc.e. Con.
- - swollt>n, Calc. e.
-melancholy, Lye.
- night-mare, Sulph. ac.
- ni$'ht-swe(lt, Verat.
- pama in general, Alum. •
- sacral region, pain in, Amm.e. Bar.e.
Myr. Pot. nitr.
- sadness, Lye.
- stomach, pain, Myr.
- stretching, Puis.
- throe-like pains, Pial.
- tinkling in the ears, Ferr.
- tool.h-ache, Bar. c.
- ulcers, bleeding, Phoe.
- vexatiousness, Sod.chL
- water-brash, Myr.
- weakness, Jod. Myr.
At the entrance ofthe catamenw:
- belly-ache, Graph. Lye.
- cramps, Plat.
- {uror, Aeon.
- languor, Phell.
- legs, heavy and sore, Phe!L
- sadn-, Sod. chL
Duri~ cctamenia(cat. attended by):
- abdommal cramps. Cinch. Cocc. Ctm.
Graph. Mgn.m. Nitr.ac. Nuxv.Pull.
SocL chl. Sulph.
- - distention. Berb. Zinc.
- - pain, Al•m. Amm. c. Am.., m.
Bar.c. Bell. Calc.c. Carb. v. Cauat.
Coce. Con. Graph. Hydr. Kram.
Laur. Lye. OL Phoa. Plat. Pula.
Sass. Sil. Sod. c. Sod. s. Stann.
Stram. Sulph.ac. Zinc.
- anus, bleeding, Graph.
- - soreness, Berb.
- anxio118DE6&, Hydr.
- back, ~n in, Amm. e. Amm.m. Berb.
Caust. Lye. Phca.
- blood, eongee&ion &o the head,Calc.e.
Cinch.
- b113Zing in &he eus, Verat.
- chelt, erampe in. Cinch.
• o,gitized by Google
560 25. Female sexual system.- 26. Coryza, &:c.
DuringctJtamenia (CRt. attended by):
- chest, pain, Graph. Puis.
- chills, M~n. e. . ··
~ ooaeipanon, Sod.a. · .
.~~:~1J!llel1anee, bloated, Cmch.
..:. -..-'~ Berb.
--:- :7··~Cast. Mgn. c. Mgn. m.
":""" - :ye11ow, Caust.
- delirium, Hyosc. Lye.
- diarrhroa, Amm. m.
- dolefulness, Sep.
- epistaxis, Sod. s. Sulph.
- eruption between the legs, Pot.e.
- to evacuate, etforta, Pulfl.
- exhaustion, Berb.
- eyes, convulsion of, Cinch.
- firintness, Berb.
- feet, painful, Amm. m.
- - swollen, Lye.
- fever, Phos.
- gastric eomplainta, Pot.e.
- genitals, burning, Sil.
- - fulness, sene. of, Pule.
--galled, Sil.
- - pressing andurgingsens.,Amm.c.
Bell. Con. Myr. Nitr.ac. Plat. .
- - rending, Amm. c.
- - sensitiven-, Plat.
- - stinging, Sulph. ac.
- giddiness, Verat. ·
~ hlllmoptoe, Phoe.
- }umdache, Berb. Carb.v. Cast. Graph.
IAur. Lye. Nuxv. 01. Phos. Sep.
Sod.e. Sod. chi. Sod.s.
- - heat of, Calc.c.
- heart, palpitation of, Jod.
- jerks, Cinch.
- inguina galled, Bov. Sass.
- irksomeness, Berb.
- itching between the thighs, Pot. c.
- legs, blue from varices, Amb.
--heavy, Zinc.
- - painful, Amb. Con. Spong. Stram.
- - weak, Sulph. Zinc.
- limbs, painful, Bry. Graph. Myr. Sep.
- - sore, as ifbeaten, Phos.Sep.Verat.
- liver, pain in, Phoe. ae.
- to lie down neeeseity, Amm.e.
- nausea, Grar.h. Puis.
- .._ with inc • to vomit, Verat.
.:.... odor, ofthe body, goatish, Stram.
~Juring etllaMita (eat. attendedby):
- ~in~!~Ct'c~lum. Are.Canth. Cioc.
- pareappearance ofobjects, S'd.
- pressure towards the parte, Berb.
-·sacral region, p. in, Amm. c. Amm.m•
Calc. c. Carb. v, Cast. -Kram. L,-e.
Mgn.c. Mgn. m. 01. Phoe. Pot. nitr.
Puis. Sass. Sod. c. ·
- sadness, Amm. c.
- scrobiculus, pain in, Sass.
- senselessness, Cinch.
- shivering, Berb.
- sleep, restless, Pot. c.
- soreness between the thighs, Pot. c.
- sour taste ofthe mouth, Lye.
- stench, see odor.
- stomach, cramp of, Pols.
- sweat, Hyoec.
- syncope, Lye.
- talkattveness, Stram.
- tearing pain through the whole body,
Berb.
- thirat, Verat.
- tooth-ache, Amm. c. Calc. c. Carb. v.
Laur. Sep.
- tremor, Hyosc.
- ulcers, growing worse, Graph.
- to .urine, urgency, 8888.
- unne, flow of, Hyosc.
- varices, di11tended, Amb.
- vomiting, Amm.m. Carb. v. Lye. ,
- - sour, Lye. _
- weariness oflife, Berb. ·
- whining, Lye.
After catsmenia (cat. succeeded by):
_
Disorders in general, Jod.
- anxiousuess, Phos.
- countenance, livid, Verat.
- eyes, livid bordered, Phos.
- genitals, bearing down, Cinch.
- gnashing with the teeth, Verat.
- headache,Berb. Sod.chl.
- heart, palpitation of, Jod.
- languor, lassitude, see weakness.
- leucorrhrea, Alum. Hydr. Phoe. ae,
- sobbing and moaning, Stram.
- tooth-ache, Calc. c. ·
- uterine cramps, Cinch•
- weakness, Berb. Jod. PhOo!J. Plat.
26. Coryza, and disorders from it.
CtllmTA, epidemic (Schnupfen-Fieber,
Grippe, Influenza), Anae. An. Bry.
CampA. Carb. v. Caust. Hydr. Lye.
Nuz v. Toz. (Dulc.!)
Ciecked rlaeum, see coryza without de-
1luxion. ·
Coryza in _B~n., Amm.c. Amm. m. Cinch.
Coce. !Jig. Ep. Gnph. Lye. Mgn.e.
01. Petr. Pot. nitr. Sod. ehl. 8ulp1a.
Tereb.
Cbryza ofany kind almost, Amm.c. Lgc.
- chronic, longcontinued,Alum. Amm.
carb. Anac. Calc. c. Canth. Colch.
Lye. Puis. Sil. Sod. e.
-constant, Calc.e. Sil. Sod. e.
- e'fery other day, Sod.c.
o,gitized ~Google
r
26. Coryza, and disorders from it. 561
ClDryH, 0De4ided. Ccalc•••
- suppreated, Amb. Cinch. Pule ·
- in the morning, Dig.
- after a cold, Sod.c.
- wbell. beeomin~ cold, Graph.
...- &om draft oftur, ~· c.
- after perspiration relieved, Sod.e.
...,. after beco~~ wet, Sep.
c.r,u .tDith IU;jlw:ion (Fliel!ll!-Schnu-
pfen), Ant.tart. Arg. Ars. Artem.
Aur. Bar. c. Berb. Bov. Bry. Cale.c.
Carb.L Caust. Clem. Cor. Cupr. Cyc.
Dros. Euphr. Graph. l_!ydr. Hydr.
sulph. rub. Lack. Lye. Mgn. 11. Mez.
Par. Petr. Phell. Phos. Phos. ac.
Plumb. Pot. c. P.U.. Scill. Sel Sep.
Sil. Sod.c.Sod.ehl.Spig.Staph. Sulph.
Ziac.
- alternating with gravedo, Nuxv.Par.
- frequent, Sil.
- one-sided, Alum. Bell. Rhod. Staph.
- relieving headache, Lach.
- - obstruction of the nose, Sil.
- - - of the ears, Lach.
- - tearing eyes, Lach.
- in the day-time, with gravedo in the
evening, Nuxv.
- in the evenin~, Sel.
- in the open lllr, Mar. Thuy.
Coryza, without defluxion (Stock.schnu-
~en), Amb. Amm.c. Amm.m. Aur.
/Jiry. Calc. c. Cap11. Carb. a. Carb. v.
Caust. Chel. Graph. Hydr. Ign. lpec.
Kram. Lye. Mgn. c. Mang. Nitr. ac.
Nuzv. 01. Op. Par. Pho11. Plat. Pot.c.
Sabin. Sass. Sep. Sil. Sod. chl. Sod.s.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Thuy. '
_. nlternatingwithde11uxion,Nuxv.Par.
- chronic, long continued, Bry. Ipec.
Sod.chl.
- constant, Caust.
• - one-sided, Alum. Plat. Stann.
....; ia suckling infants, Nuxv.
- in the morning, Calc.c.
- in the evening, with defluxion in the
day-time, Nuzv.
- at night, Caust.
- in cold temperature worse, Dulc.
- U1 the open air commencing to run,
Thuy.
(}wy%11 attended by:
- ageusia, Ant.tart.Mgn.m.Pula.Rhod.
Sod. e~hl.
- anosmia, Amm. m. Ant. tart. Carb. a.
Mgn.m. Mgn. s. Mez. Pot.nitr. PuZ..
Rliod. Sod.chi. Sulph. ac.
- breath obstructed, Bov. Pot.c.
- catarrh, Graph. lgn. Mang. Spig.
Sulph.
- chest, oppression of, Calc. e.
Coryza attended by:
- chest, pain in, Bell. Mgn.s. Mez. OL
Pho11. ac. Sulph. Zinc.
- - rawness, Carb. v.
- chilliness,Ant.tart.Sod.e.Spig.Suiph.
- cough, Alum. Amb. Bar. Bell. Canth.
Euphr. Jgn. Lye. Nitr. ac. Ph011. ac.
Sod.c. Spong. Sulph. Thuy.
- - at night, Caust•
- ear..che, Lach.
- eye-brows, pressing in, Ars.
- eyes, ruonm.g with wat.er, Eopbr.
Staph.
- - protruded, Spig.
- fever, Hydr. Lacll. Sod.c. Spig.
- gaping, Carb.a.
- headache, Aeon. Ars. Artem. Bell.
Bry. Calc. e. Calc. s. Caust. Euphr.
Graph. Hydr. lgn. Lach. Lye. Sep.
Spig. Thuy.
--affection of (~nommenheit),
Bov. Euphr. Lye. Phos.
--heat., Lye.
- heat, Spig.
- hoarseness, Ars. Carb. v. Caust. Dig.
Graph. Nilr. ac. Petr. Phell. Pot.c.
8ep. &d.c. Spig. 8pong.. Sulph.Tl&uy.
- hysterical excitement, Ign.
- legs, straining, Anac.
- limbs, pain in, Sep.
- lips, effioreaeenee,Mez.
- to lie down, necessity, Graph.
- mouth, dryness, Nuxv;
- nausea, Graph.
.... nose, bleeding at, Ani.
- - burning, Ar11. Artem. Calad. Mez.
(eomp. mucus.)
- - obstruction, Kram. Par. Phell.
Pot. nitr. Rhod. Sod.II. Tong.
- - - one-sided, Rhod. Staph.
- - swelling, Bry. Phell.
- - tingling, Caps. Cub. v.
- nostrils, inflamed, Phell.
- - sore, see "mucus, excoriating."
- - ulcerated, Ant. tart. Calc.e. Coce.
Scill. Staph.
- phlegm hawked up, Colch.
- 8leeplessness, Ars.
- smeU, loss of, see Anosmia.
- stench from the nose, Bell.
- taste, 101111 of, see Ageusia.
- throat,painin, Nitr.ac. Ph011. Ph011.ac.
- - roughness, Caoat.
- - aeratehing, Calc.s.
- tooth..che, Laeh.
- urine, 11ow of, Verat.
- voice, deep and hollow, Bar.c.
- - unclear, Mpt. s..
- toweep,~poMtion,Spig.
Dejlu:rion, discharge from the nose, see
Coryza with defluxion.
DryMu, ofthe nose, Aman. Amb. Ars.
o,gitized by Google
562 26. Coryza, and disorders from it.
Bar.c. Bell. Berb. Dry. Calc.c. Cann. Phos. Plumb. Ran. ec. Rhod. Sabael.
Cor.Graph.Hydr.Jgn. Kram. Mgn.m. Spig• .
Mez. Nitr.nc. 01. Petr. Pla08. Pot. c. MUCU8, in the open air, Rhod.
Sen. Sep. Sil. &d. ckl. Spig. Sulph. Ob1trvction of the nOlle (Verstopftheit
Tab. Zinc. der Nue), Amb. Amm. e. Amm. ,.,
Dryn.eBB, chronic, Amm.c. Anac. Ant. •· Arg. Are. Aur. Bov.
- at night, Sil. Dry. Calc. c. C.arb. a. Carb. 11. Cast.
- with heat in it, Cann. Cawt. Chel. Cic. Con. Cupr. Gi.
- with sneezing, Kram. Grat. Jod. lpec. Kram. Laur. •
DryneBB, sens. of, Anac.Con. Mez. Petr. Mgn. c. Mang. Mar. Mur. ac. yr.
Sen. Sil. Verat. Nice. Nitr. ac. Nuxv. 01. Op. Par.
Fwlneu, sellii&Uon of, in the nose, Laur. Petr. Phell. Phos. Plumb. Pot.c. Pot.
Par. jod.Pot.nitr. Puis. Ran.b. Sab&d. Sass.
Grawedo, eee Coryza without de1luxion. Sel. Sep. SiL Spig. Stann. Strem.
Grippe, Ars. Dry. Camph. Carb.v. CaUflt. Sulph. Tab. Verb. Zinc.
Hgdr. Lye. Nuzv. Toz. - chronic, Dry. Con. Sil. Sulph.
l'!flweMa, Are. Camp/a. Caust. Nuzw. - one-sided, Alum. Myr. Rhod. Staph.
(comp. the above.) Sulph. SuJph. ac.
MUCU8(with or without coryza),qualitY.· - in the morning, Con. Par. Rhod.
- acrid, ArB. Cast. Nuxv. SciiL SiL - in the evening, Cub.v. Puis.
(comp. excoriating.) -at night,Amm.c. Lye. Mgn.m.Phell.
- biting, Ars. - from pus, Calc.c.
- bloody,Par.Phos.Pot.c.Sulph.Thuy. -when reading aloud, Verb.
(comp. Sec.H.blooddillch.byblowing - in a room, Ran. b.
the nose.) - in suckling infanta, Nuxv.
- burning, ArB. Hgdr. Bulph.rub. Pot. . - with nasal pain, biting, Arg.
jod. SuJph. (comp. Sec. 11. Burning , - - sore, Amb. Ran.b.
ID the nose.) Phlegm, see mucus.
- excoriating, Alom. m. Cast. Hydr. Pundent discharge, see Sec. 11.
Mgn.s. Mez. Mur.ac. Pot.jod. Sci1L Bunni~ catarrh, see coryza with de-
Sil. 11wuon. ·
- fetid, Calc. c. Calc. e. Cauat. Graph. Slime, see mucus.
Mgn. m. Pull. Sod. c. Tbuy. &aeezing,Aman. Amb. Ant. tart. Artem.
- gelatinous, Sel. Calc. c. Carb.L Carb.v. Cinch. Croc.
-greenish, Par. Phoe. Pot. c. Pull. .Euph. Ferr.magn.Grat.Hydr.Kram.
Sod.c. Thuy. (comp. Sec. H.) Mar. Mez. Nice. Pot.c. Ran.ac. Scill.
- hardcruaty, Bry. Bep. Sil. Sod.c. Sod. chl. Staph. Sulph. Tar. Tber.
- plugs forming, Sep. Sil. Tox. Verat.
- puruJent, Calc. c. Pot. c. (comp. -interrupted (versagend), Aeon. Nitr.
Sec. 11.) ac. Sil. Sod. chL
- putrid smelling, Graph. - strong and frequent, Con. Pot.c. Sil.
- reddish, Par. - violent, Aeon. Bnic. Sabad. To~
- tallow-like, Cor. - in the morning, Cauat.
-tough, viscid, Bov. Canth. Colch. -in coryza, Ant. tart. Arg. Calad.Calc.
Plumb. Ran. b. carb. Carb.a. Cinch. Cyc. Dros. Sci1L
-watery, Aman. Amm.m. Are. Bov. Sep. Sod.chl. Staph.
Carb.v.Cast. Graph. Hydr. Mez.Mur. - with belly-ache, Aeon.
ac. Par. Plumb. Ran. ec. SuJph. ac. - with pain in the cheat, Aeon. Artem.
Tereb. Grat. Sen. ·
- white, Sabad. Spig. - - head, Artem.
- yellow, Bov. Graph. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. - - bypochondrea, Grat.
Mez. Mur.ac. Pla.o1. Pula. Sel. Sod.c. - -nape, Amm.m.
Spig. (comp. Sec. 11.) · - tingling in the nose,Ferr.magn.Mar.
MUCU8, defluxion of, without coryza, Preon. Plat.
Aman. Anac. Carb. v. Cast. Cauat. - stinging in the aide, Aeon. Grat.
Euph. Graph. Par. Ph08. Ran.b. Ran. To meeze, ineffectual effilrta, Carb. v.·
ac. SuJph. ac. Tereb. Ther. Tox. Mez. Plat.
-chronic, Anac. Ph08. Ulceration(Zuachwiren) ofthe nostrils,
MUCU8,secretionincr.,Bar.c.Euphr.Jod. at night, Lye.
DlgitizedbyG ogle
568
27. Affections of the Larynx and Trachea.
(comp. See. 15.)
Ad1elion (Festeitzen), in the chest, Bar. Croup, Aeon. Bell. Calc.'· Cham. Dros.
carb. Bell. Sep. Soctehl. (comp. "mu- Plwl. Samb. Spong. (eomp. ''inflam- '
eus aeeumu18ted".) 'mation".)
~ membranaeea,eeecroup.(comp. . Cutting p., Arg. Canth. Pot. nitr.
mftammation.) • (]ynanche trachealil( see Croup.
- mucosa, Sen. Drawing sens., 8od. bor.
A~ia, Ant.s. Bar.e. Bell.Cann. Carb.a. ]}ryJI.e11, Art. Dros. Mp. m. Mang. Mez.
CaUBt. Hydr. Laeh. Phoe. Plumb. Par. Plwl. Sen. tspong. SuJph. ae.
Pot. e. (eomp. See. 14.) Zinc.
- at night, Carb. a. - in the chest, Phoe. Z"mc.
- when overheating oneself, Ant. a. - after meals, Zinc.
AltAmatic a1feetion (Dimpfigkeit), As8a. - in the mornil!g, Sen. Zinc.
Blood, hawked out, Sabad. Zinc. (eomp. Dryne11, sen& of, Caust. Mar. Par. Sep.
See. 28.) Sod. chi. Stann.
Bronclaitil, see inflammation. Heat in the eh., Bar. m.
Burning, Amm. m. Graph. Hydr. Mez. - when exercising in the open air,
Par. Sen. Spong. Tong. Ant. a.
Catarrh (eomp. hoarseness and rough- Hoaraenut,Alum. Amb. Amm.c. Amm.m.
nellB), Alum. Ant. tart. Bar. m. Bell. Ang. Ant. tart. Ara. Bar. c. B(Jfl. Bry.
. Cann. Canth. Carb. a. Carb. v. Cham. Calc. c. Calc.1. CantiL Ca~ C~b. a.
· Co.ff. Droe. Dulc. Graph. Hydr. Ign. Carb. v. CGUit. Cham. Cic. Cinch.
lpec. Mang. Myr. Nuzv. Pot. c. Rhotl. Cupr. Dig. Drot. Ferr. Graph. Hydr.
8pig. Stann. Sulph. Verat. Verb. Joel. Lacli. Laur. Lyc.Mgli. m..MtJng.
- oftliecheatandbronchia,Alum.Cann. Meu. Mez. Mur. ac. Myr. Nitr. ac.
Dulc. Hyote. Sod. chi. Verb. · Ntu: v. OL Op. Par. Petr. Plwl. Plwl.
- chronic, Caust. Droa. Dulc. Hydr. ac.Plumb.Pot.c.Pot.nitr.Puli.Rlwd.
Stann. Sabad. Samb. See. SeL Sen. &,J. SiL
&d.c. &d. chl. Spig. SpG!lg. Stanp.
- in the evening, Carb. a. Staph.Strout. Sulph. Stllpla. ac. Tkuy.
- at ni~ht, Carb.a. Spig. Tong. Tox. Verb. Zinc. '
- in children, Oham.
- after a cold, Cham.
- after measles, Carb. v.
- with chills, Spig. Sulph.
--coryza, Graph. Ign. Mang. Spig.
Sulph.
- - cough, Bell. Puis.
- - eyes protruded, Spig.
- - fever, Spig.
- - headache, Spig.
- - sore throat, Carb. v.
- - suffocating fits, Co.ff.
- - to weep, disposition, Spi~.
Ohoked, readily, when swallow1ng, Aeon.
Bell. Pot. c. Tox.
Coldne11, &eDBBtion of, when breathing,
Tox.
Coraltriction, Asar. Bell. Calad. Camph.
Canth. Cocc. Droa. Hell. I~c. Laur.
M01cla. Myr. Nuz v. 01. PhOB. ac.
. Plumb. Pull. &11. SiL Spong. Tox.
Verat. (comp. spasm.)
- in walking, Tox.
Omtracti~ p., Jod. Phos. ac. Thuy.
To cough, Irritation, Ant. tart. Bry. Coif.
Colch. Dros. Ferr. Mez. Nuxv. Stann.
Stront. Sulph. (eomp. See. 28.)
- when breathing, Men.
- chronic, Calc. c. Carb. v. Cau~t. Cupr.
Dros. Mang. Mur. ac. Plwl. Plumb.
- sudden, Alum. Myr.
- in the morning, Bov. Carb.a. Carb. v.
Caust. Dig. Jixl. Mang. '
- in the afternoon, Alum.
- in the evening, Alum. Carb.w. Cauat.
- at ni~ht, (Carb.a.1 Spig.1)
- in children, Cham.
- after a cold, Bry. Cham.
- after measles, Bry. Carb. v. Dr01.
- with moist cold weather, Sulph.
- in the open air, Mang.
- from reading aloud, Verb.
- when singing, SeL
- by talking incr., Carb. v.
-when w81king against the wind,
Myr.
- with breath, obstruction o~ Mez.
- - chest p., Sulph.
--chills, Nuxv. Socl.c.
- - co~, Ara. Carb. v. Cauat. Dig.
Graph. Nitr. ac. Petr. Phell. Pot.e.
Sep. &d. c. Spig. Spong. Sulph.
Tkuy.
- • cough, Amb. Amm. m. Dry. Drol.
Digitized by Coogle
' . a
27. Larynx and trachea.
Dulc. Hydr. Mang. Nitr. ac. Plun.
Sen. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Spong. Tuuy.
Hoarseness, with ears-obstruction, Men.
- - fever, Sod. c.
- - to lie down, inclin., Cupr.
- - mouth, dryness, Op.
- - to perspire, disposition, Bry.
- - sneezing, Pot. c.
- - sore throat, Carb. v. Nitr. ac.
- - tongue, dryness, Op.
Hot vapour, rising up from the throat,
Tox.
Like a hmk, eens., Berb.
l'tflammation, bronchia, Are. Cinch. Dig.
Samb.
- larynx,Acon.Dros. Hydr.Jod.Spoug,
(comp. Croup.)
- trachea, Aeon. Ars. Bell.Canth.Carb.
veg. Cham. Cinch. Dig. Jod. lpec.
Mang. Nuxv. &mb. Spong. Yerat.
ltclJmg, Nux v.
Larytigitu, see "in11ammation". ·
Mueu&, accumulated, Amb. Ang. Arg.
Artem. A.ur. Bar.c. Bov. Calc.c. Caust.
Cham. Cinch. Croe. Dig. Hyosc. Jod.
Mgn. m. Nuxv. Oleand. Plumb.Samb.
Sen. Sod.chi. Stann. (comp. ~ 15.)
- in the c.hest, Ant. tart. Arg. Aur.
Bar. c. Bell. Calc. e. Canth. Cupr.
Graph. Lye. Nux v. Sm. Sod. chi.
Staph. Sulph. Zinc.
:- in \he morning, Sod. chl.
- when ~nding stepil, laughing,
stooping, Arg.
Mueu&, quality, (comp. See. 15. and 28.)
- ejected with cliffiCulty, Aur. c-nth.
Staph. .. .
- - easily, Arg. Dig. Stann.
- lumpy, Plumb.
- with lumps of blood. Sel.
- thick, Amb.
-tough, Bar. c. Bov. Canth. Cham.
Nuxv. Oleand. Plumb.
- yellowish-green, Plumb.
- hawked out(Schleimracheen)Artem.
Bism. Calc. s• .Carb. a. Caust. Con.
Ferr. magn. Joel. Lam. Lye. Mar. Par.
Petr. Phos. Pho$. ac. Plat. Plumb.
Pot. c. Sel. Sen. &p. Sod.chi. S~
Tar. Thuy. Tox.
- in the morning, Amb. CauL Petr.
Phos. Sep. Sod.chi. Tox.
Numbness, sens. of, Aeon.
Obstruction, sen~~ation ot; Mang. Spong.
Verb.
Paitifulness, in ~t>n., Bell. Calc...
- when breathing, BelL
- when coughing, .A.rg. BeD. Bry. Sod.
bor.
- after reading, Nitr. ac.
- when singing, Spong.
- when sneezing, Sod. bor.
Painfulneu, from talking, Bell. Sulpb.ac.
- - iner., Bry. Nitr. ae. .
..;.... from tobacco smoking, iner., Bry. _
- when touching the throat, Bell. Lach.
Spong.
- when turning the throat, 8JWAH.
Ptllttj, of the epiglottis, Aeon.
Phlegm, see "11\ucus".
Pht.Aim, laryngea, Calc.c. Carb.v. Camt.
Dros. Phos. 8pcmg. (Hydr.1 Sulph.l)
- traehealis, ArB. Cillc. 11. Carb. v.Coloc.
Con. Dro& Marw. Nitr. ac. Pot. aitr.
Sen. Stann. (Jod.1.Lye.1).
Plug, eens. ot; Dro& Pot. c. Spong.
PreSBure, Zinc.
Rattling noise in the cb~ see Sec. 29.
JlmlKhness, Amb. Amm.c. Carb.v•.Ctltllt.
JJros.Ferr.Graph.~- Lye.l\lgn.m.
Mmtg. Men. Nitr. ac.OL PheU. Phoa.
'Phos.ae. Plumb. Pot.c. Pot.jod. Pot.
nitr. Pv.U. Sabad. Sen. Sil. Sod. c.
Stann. Stroot. Sulph. &;J,ph. t1c. Tox.
Verat. Zinc.
- in &he chest, Nitr.-ac. Sod.c. Zinc.
- chrome, Mang. Phos. · ·
- in the morning, Zinc~
-:- after meals, Anac. Zinc.
- after talking, Lye.
8erapi!'$(Scharren),Calc.._Dros.Nuxv.
Scratchtng (Kratzen), Alum. Bov.Calc.c.
Graph. Laur. Lye. Nitr. ac. NuxT.
Pot. nitr. Verat.
Sore pain (Wundheits-Schmerz), Arg.
BOv. Bry. Caust. Graph. Joel. Sen.
Sit
Spasm.Laur. Men. Nvzv. Verat..(comp.
Constriction.)
- at night, 01.
Stinging, Canth. Dros. Nitr. ac. Pboe.
· Sod. bor. Thuy.
Swelling, sens. of, Laur.
TenderneBS, Bell. Calc. B. Graph. Lach.
Sulph.
Tenrion, Pot. nitr.
Tickling, Carb. v. Cham. Colch. Ferr.
Hydr. Nuxv. Stann.Zine.(comp.St>c.
28. cough excited by, &e.)
.Tingling, crawling, Arn. Carb. v. Colch.
.l>ros. Jod. Lye. Stann. Sulph. Tkuy.
- at night, Lye.
Traeheitu, see inflammation.
llbr0U811UB, larynx, Cale.c.
Voice, (comp. Sec. 14.)
- deep, Cinch. Dros. Laur. Sulph.
- - with moi$t cold air, Sulpb. .
- exalted, Stann. . ·
- fhlling, momentarily'· Alum. Droe.
Spool'·
- fearful (verzagt), Ang. Cantb. La.rn.
-hollow, Bar. c. Sec.
-low, subdued, Ang.
- shrieking, Stram.
DigitizedbyGoogle .J
2:/. Larynx, &c.- 28. Cough, and disorders from it. 565
Voice, unclear, CatUt.Cioeb.Croe.Graph. Voice, tremulous, Cantb.
Bydr. Hyoee. Sailed. Spoog. Weakneu, sene. of, GmtA. Cauet.
- Wl80oorous, Agn. - when talkiJlg and .breathing, CantiL
28. Cough, and disorders from it.
Alt~ic (dimpfiger) eoogh, A8l8.
lltJlc. ••
&llortring cough, BeU. Calc. e., Droe.
Nitr. ac. Ph08. I!JrNnaK.
-in the evening, Nitr:-ac.
.::; and night, Sportg.
couglaetl "1'• Aecm. AI. Amm. c..
Anae. Ant. Ara. BelL Bry. Calc. c.
Calc. .. c.rb. v. Cinch. Con. Cupr.
I!ig. I:Jfw. Dule. Ferr. Hy_dr. Laur.
lieil. Lye. Mgn. c. Maog. Mes. Mur.
ec. Myr. Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Op. PJw..
Plum!~. Pot. mtr. Puh. SeL Sep. SiL
Sod. c. &d.clal. Staph. 8vlph. 8vlph.
GC. ~.Zinc.
• - black, Nitr. ac. Zinc.
- bright-red, Am. Dulc. Led. PoL nitr.
Saba~l. Tox.
- ebronie, 8vlph. GC. Toz.
- !-~lotted, coagUlated, Aro.N"ltr.ac. 2W.
- in the morniDg, SeL 8ep.
- in the eTeniog, Sep.
- at night, Aro. ArB. Ferr.
Clain-cough, see "hooping cough".
Claronic cough, BeU. Drol. Ign. Jod. Lye.
Phos. Sep. &d. cAL SJKmg. 8vlpA.
Sulpb. ac.
Concumve(ei'IIChiitternder)cough,ARGC.
AnL e. Hydr. Hyoee. 1a'o. IJ)8C. Lye.
Nitr. ac. Oleaod. Pvll. &p. Sil. Tox.
Cotwla in general, Alum; Amm. e. ArL
Sell. ea,-. Claam. Con. Cor. Graph.
Led. Lr.e. Nuzv. Petr. PAo.. Pot. c.
&p. Sil. 8ulpla.
- COQlencing with dyspi1Cil8, Bry. Letl.
- - s&omaeh-eche, BeD.
- - whining, Am. BelL
c.ug1a ezcited by:
- B~~Cending steps, Pot.nitr.
- breath, want of, Calc. & Euph. Guaj.
- chest, burning in, Eupb. Ph:os.
- - congestion to, BelL
- - drynees, Puis.
- - irritationingen., BelLDroe.Eupb.
Hydr. Petr. PJw.. Spong. 8taDn.
- - itching, Puis.
- -.mucus accumulated, Are. Stann.
- - oppreeaion of, Cocc.
- - roughness (and seratehiog) in,
- OraL Phos. ~ PoL nitr. Puis.
- - tickling, Bov. Cham. Eupb. PJw..
Phos. ac. Sep._Stano. 7N. VeNt.
- close thinking, Nuzv.
- coffee, Caps.
Coogla e~cired bg:
- coldneee, Caust.
- cold air, lpee. Phos.
- cold driab, SiL
- cold room, Carb. v.
- cold, becoming ofa l'!fl, Calc. e.
- talking cold, Cham. Mfr. Sep. Sod.c.
- - in water, Myr.
- drinking, .A.eon. Ar•. Bry. Calc. e.
Lye. Plios.
- after eating, see Sec.
- fea&her-dust, sene. of in the thatoat,
Amm. c. Bell. Culc. Mgn.
- a hair, se1111. ofon th'!"tOIIgue, Sil.
- keeping back the breath, PoL niw.
- Ia~, irritation in general, A.sar.
.C Calc. e. Coce. Coloc. Dros.
Hydr. Par.
- - pain, Calad. Calc.e.
- - ticldi~, A~. Colcb. lJro& lpec.
Laur. Oleaod. PJw.. GC. Seill. Sen.
Sep. S&ann. 8vlph. 2W. (eomp.
throat and throatpit.)
- laughing, Arg. Ciocb. Phos. Stann.
- lying down, Calc.& Con. Hydr. Hydr.
eulpb.rub. Hy01c.Mgn.e. Mez.Nuxv.
Petr. Sulpb.
- - on the back, Phos.
- - on the left side, Par.
-meditation, Nuzv.
- motion of the arms, Calc. e. PoL c.
(ArL Ferr. Nuxv.)
- nitric acid, Mes.
- open air, ArL PoL nitr. Sen. Spif.
Sulph. GC.
- overheating, Myr. Tluy.
- playing piano, Cale. c.
- reading, Nuz v.
- - aloud, Mang. Phos.
- respiration, Artem. Men. Op. 8cill
--deep, Artem. Dule. Graph. Lgc.
8cilt Sod. ehL
- acrobieuiU&, preeeing on it, CalacL
- - tickling in it, Phos.ae. Sod.eha.
- shrieking and weeping, in children,
Ant. tart. Am. Cham. .
- ~ng. Stano.
- sitting, Alum. Ferr. Guaj. Mp. aa.
Sod. c.
- - bent, Stann.
- stimulants, Stann.
- sulphur-vapours, seas. ofin the thr.,
Bry. Cineh.l_pec. Lye. Pflr.
- swallowing, Up.
- talkingt Anae. Caue&. Cham. Dif.
Jdimg. PbCIL SiL SlaDn.
48
Digitized by Coogle
28. Cough, aad disorders from iL
Oougl& hea,~,bg:_ • 11- D
- trac irritation tn ~·· --:r·rerr.
magn. PoLjocl. Stroot.
- - tickling, Am. Euph. Ferr. Mar.
&n. &p. Toz. (comp. &broat and
cheet.)
- - pain, Ang. Bry. Euph. aftt.lpec.
- throat, (Larynx and traeJtea) de.
tions o£ . ·
- - dryneM,Carb.LM~.Pet.r.Pula.
- - feather-dWJt, 88IUI&tion ol. BelL
Amm.e. c.lc.c• .f&'n.
- - irritation in fJ8B-, A.b. .A.r.Bry.
. CaltJd. Calc.L Carb.T,Coae. Celee.
Drw.HJi.r. Pw. Pot.jod. 8lniM.
- - itching, Con. Nuxv. Pula.
- - pain, Arg. Eupb. GrM. SelL
- - l'OUg)uu•. CaUR. Cea. Gra~
Leur. -.,;. Pet.joeL Put.. RhOd.
BM.cl. SaL 8tl'ODL ' .
- - auJpbur--vap!!ur, lilellatilaol;Brf.
Cinch. lgn. Lye. Par.
- tlaroatft::.~nging 118DL, .fKn.
- - tic . , BelL Clum&. 81.
- tobacco Briloki~, Aeon. Coloc.
- toRgUe, 111!0& G a bail' aa, 8iL
- mlin playing, Pot. c.
...,. walkiag, Ferr. Sod. eW.
- warmth, entniDCe iato, Sod.c.
- beoomiag warm in bali, lllyr. ·
- weeping (in children), Ani. Cbam.
Cuugl& attended bg:
- abdominal ring, pain ill, Velld.
- anxiety, Aeon. Artem. O'llc:. •· Cqj:
Tox.
- - nocturnal, Aeon.
- arm, pain in, Dig.
i - back, stinging in, Hydr. 8ep.
- belly-ache,Ara.BellColoc.Coa.Phoe.
Stann. Verat.
- blood, agitation o( Arn. .
- breath , obstrueted , Acoo. Alum.
Amm. c. Anac. Aat. tmt. Ane111.
Calad.Calc.c.C.Pf'. Eupu.I~. Mf!".
Nitr. ac. Op. Spig. (eomp. IIJIIUIIIlOdie
and hoopiag oough.)
- breath, offensive, ADib. Ana. Caps.
Droe. Graph. Mp. a. Mez. Phuiib.
Sep. Stann.
- cMal'rh, Bell. Pule.
- chelt, 88 ifbealen llaiiL, Ana. iiac.
- - blood. congest. of, Bell.
- - burning, Ant. .. Oarb. v. lod.
Mgn. m. S(M>ng. Zinc.
- ..:.. aa if bursting. paiD. ..,.• a,.c~r.
Zinc.
- -- ooWuesa in, Zinc.
- - cuUin«, Pet. Ailr.
- - heavineM, Calad.
- - tao.WielleM, Pho&
- - mucus,-.:amula&M, Ara. JJar.c.
Cou,rA flltealle4 bg: .
- Clae•t,opprell!lionof,Cocc.Con.Grapb.
Grat. Rhod. Tox.
--pain in general, Amb. Ara. BeD.
Carb. v. Cinch. Droe. Phoe. ac.
Pot. nitr. Sod. chL Sulph. Tox.
VeNt. Zinc. •
- - ~re, Cinch. Cor. Joel. ~·
- - rasping p., Lp. P8oe. .
- - rattling,~, Ant. tart. Nut1.
Sep. &». cAL
- - ftWDeM, 801'eDel!8, Carb.T. CaUIIL
M«n· m. Mga. L Myr. Nitr. ac.
Nux v. PIJH. Sep. Sil. Sod. a.
Spig. Spon«. &an. Sulph. Zioc.
- - 8))118m. Pot. c.
- - lltillgiag. Acoa. Bell BnJ, Carb.a.
Cinch. Droa. Hydr. JoeL Nitr. ac.
Plao& Pot.oarb. Pot. nilr. Pule.
Sabad. 8cill. Aen. Sep. Sod. chi.
Sod. L &UJG. Zinc.
- - uJceroua p., Kram. Staph.
- - wambling, Tox.
- - weakneM, Sep.
- ebiiJe, Grat.
-coryza, Alum. Amb. Bar. c. BeD.
Cantb. Euphr. lgD. Lye. Nitr. ae.
Phoe.ae. Sod..c. 8~ SuiJih.Tlauy.
- coUDtenaace, bluelltws ol, Ipee. op.
Verat. (eomp. hooping COUIIL)
- - pale, Art.em. .
- - red, Bell. Con.
- d~ia,CheL
- ear-ecbe, c.,...
- eructation, Alll6. Verat.
- Alvei', eveaiD«, Coo.
;_ to be &igh&eDed, liability~ Amm.
- banda, hot and moillt, Ant. IUt.
- headache, Alum. Amb. Anac. Am.
Bell. Bry. Calc.e. q.p.. Carb.v. Coo.
Hydr. lpec. Lye. Nuxv. Phoa. Phee.
ac. Pot. nitr. 8a8L Sod. chL Stdp/1.
Tox.
- - congestion ofthe blood. Anac.
- - 88 il' bunting, JJeiiiL, Bry. 01ps.
!lldsNuxv. Pbo& Pho&ac. Sod.
- - jerb,~ lpec. Maug. Sod.chi.
Bpig. Tos.
- - perspiration, Aat. tart.
- -:- lltiaging, Bry.
- heat,A.ra.
- hiccuping, Ta~
- lwareaeM,Aa6.Amm.c. Bry. Drw.
Dulc. Hydr. Maag. Nitr. ac. PAN.
Sen. 8od:e. Sod.clil. Spoag. Thuy.
- bypocbondn!B,paialia,Amb.Amm.m.
Arn. Bry. DroB. Hell Lye.
- iechiactic . Bell Cau8t.
- loathing,~
-mouth, pafufuJ. Mgn.&
o,gitized by Google
-.
28. Cough, and disorders from it.
Cougla Glte1&tW "':
- mouth, stench o( C.JI&
- - taMe u after blooCJ, AmiD. e.
- - - DaUBeOUS, Cape.
- - - eour, Coce.
- n&Pf' ofthe neck, pain, Alum.
- D&Wiea, &p.
- - with retcbio« to vomit, Ven&.
- DOlle, bleeding, Hydr.
- perepiration, An.
- 118Cnll reg. pain, Amm.e. Ni&r.ac.
- .Wvation, Verat.
- IICI'ObieuJus,~ in, Bry. Phoe. Thuy.
-shoulder, p., Cinch. Dig.
- to sit up, neeeeeity, Are. Hl_OIC. Puis.
- lllitcbe8 in the aide, Aeon. llfy. Phoe.
&ill.
- llleepnellllMI, Pot.Ditr.
- aeezing, .BeU.
- enoring, Arg. Bell. CausL Sod.e.
- e&artliog in Bleep, Artem. Calc.&
- eUffi:ael!ll ofthe &ody, lpeo.
- etomaeh, tll.b, lpee. \ .
- - pain, lpeo. Lye. Phos. Tox.
- - u if tu.5l
· up, Puis. (comp.
VOJDlturition.
- teltielee, pain, e. '
- tlairet, Samb.
- tightnel!ll ofthe cheet, eee See. 29.
- ttiroa&, (larynx and trachea) aft'ect.
- - [J!in, Calc.s. Cape. Carb.a. Cinch.
lWgn. s. PTao..
- - rawoeu, Arg. Carb. v. Cinch.
Sep. Sod. chi.
- - roughneas, Pot. e. Sen. Sod. e.
- - eorene1111, Amb. Amm. c. Caust.
Cinch. Lye. Nitr. ao. Sod. cbL
- - stinging, Nitr. ac. Pot.c.
- - tickliog,Amb.Anac.Kram.(comp.
"tickling cough.")
-tremor, Phos.
- uoconeeioumeee, Artem.
- urinary diseh., involuntary, Ant. s.
Canst.I pee. PuJe.Sep. Sod.chi.Spong.
Staph. Verat.
- to vomit ioclin., Calc.s. Droe. Hydr.
Jpec. Ph011. ac. Puis.
- vomitin!.t_Aoae. Ant.tart. Bry. Calc.e.
Carb.v. !Jig. lod.Ipec. PTao.. ac. Pot.e.
PuU. Sep. Sil Soil. cbl Svlpla.
- - bilious, Cinch.
~ - bitter, &p.
- - of what 'bas been eaten, Anae.
Am.tart. Bry. Dig. Plto&ac. Tox.
- - elimy, Sil
- - in the morning, Pot. o. SuJph.
- - in tbe evening, Ind. Mea. 1'ox.
- - at nifht, Ipec. Me..
- - after drinJUot:_Y. •
- - after ealing, Ant.ttwt. 'Brtj.
DiJ.
~
Onlgl GlteJ&tW bf:
- •omitaritioo, Bell Ollc. •• Carb. v.
Dro&. Hydr. Ipec. Mez. Nuxv. Pot.c.
PuU. SciU. SOd. cbL Stilpla.
- water-brash, Bry.
- weakneflll, Vent.
- weepiog, Arn. Artem. BeD. Calc. s.
Cougla terminpting flrith:
- ~tiiiDel!ll, obetr. of breath, pale
countenance, whimpering, Artem.
- chest, coldneflll, Zinc.
- - roBing in, Mur. ac.
- - 801'ell8118, Stann. Zinc.
- eructation and regurgitation, SuJph.
acid. .
- sneezing, Bell Calc. s.
;_ weeping, Calc. s.
Cougla relieved hf:
- ljba$ down, Maq.
- ~tJ: bancf agaioa the ebeet,
-sUing up, Hy011e. Sod. e.
To cough irritation, felt:
- in the abdomen, Ven&.
- in the chest, Are. Bov. Cham. Dros.
Eupb. Grat. Hydr. PTao.. Pbos. ae.
Pot. nitr. Pule. Sep. Spong. Stann.
Toz. Vertat.
- in the larynx, ~· Aear. CGW.
Calc. s. Coco. Coif. COicb. Coloc.Dres.
Hydr. Ipeo. Laur. Men. Oleand. PTao..
ac. Seill. &.. &p. Stann. Stilpla.Toz.
- in the eerobieulue, Guaj. Sod.chi.
-in the stomach, BeD. Bry. Puis. Sep.
- in the throat, Amb. Amm.m. AnaC.
Ant. tart. Bov. Bry. Calc. e. Carb.a.
Carb. v. Cauet. Con. Graph. Laur.
Mgn.e. Mgn.m. Maog. Mez. Nuxv.
01. Petr. Pot. c. PuJe. Rhod. Sabad.
Sees. Sod. c1al. Stroot. Tab.
- in the thr011t-pit, BeD. C1amn. 1gn.Sil
- in the tongue, Sil.
- in the trachea, Arg. Am. Bry. EUJ)Ia.
Ferr. Grat. lpec. "Pot.jod. Sea. Bep.
Strout. Toz.
Dey tmtl niglat cougb, Bell Billm. DuJc.
Euph. Ign. Lye. Nitr.ae.Spoog.8&aDn.
Suiph.
~Her~ cough, Ang. Ollc. •· Samb. Sil.
l'erGI. Verb.
DtamiJl covglt, Amm. e. Arg. a.le. c.
Phos. Pot. nitr. Stann.
- forenoon, Tox.
- afternoon, Nuxv. Slllph. Thuy.
Dry cough , .ACOIL Alwna. A,... carb.
Amm. m. An~. Are. Artna. Bcr. c.
&ll. Bow. Brj. Calc. e. Calc.... Cann.
Carb. •· Cauet. CfM;m. Cinoh._Cqff.
Con.· Droo. o.p. Dig. Drw. Buph.
Digitized by Coogle
28. Cough, aad,disorders·from iL
Ferr. magn. Grat. Guaj. Hydr. Hydr.
chl.corr. Hyosc. Ign. Jod. Ipec. Kram.
Lact. Lye. Mgn. m. Mgn. s, Mang.
Mar. Mez. Myr. Nitr.ac. Nuxv. 01.
Op. Petr. Phell. Pltos. Plat. Plumb.
Pot. c. Pot.jod. Pot.nitr. Puis. Rhod.
Sabad. Sabin. Scill. Sen. Sep. Sil.
Spig. Stann. Stroot. Sulph. ac. Tab.
Verat. Verb. Zinc.
Dry cough, in the morning, Alum. Ani. s.
. Cinch. Grat.Lyc. Mgn.s. Rhod. Suiph.
ac. Tab. Verat.
- - increased, Stann.
- in the evening, Ars. Bar. c. Calc. c.
Calc.s. Hydr. Mgn.m. Nuxv. Petr.
Phos. ac. Sep. Stann. Sulph. Tab.
Tox.
- at night, Aeon. Bell. Bry. Calc. c.
Carb. a. Cham. Cinch. Grat. Hydr.
Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mez. Nux v. OJ.
Petr. Rhod. Sabad. Suiph. Tox. Verat.
Verb. Zinc.
- - increased, Cham. Op. Stroot.
- day and night; Bell. Euph. Ign. Lye.
- ~·eold,:Myr.
- from cold air, Phos.
- ·after drinking, Ars. Phos.
,_ in lying, Hydr. sulph•.rub. Hyosc.
Sulph.
- after measles, Cham. Hyosc. Ign.
- from reading aloud, Phos. ·
,_ from talking, MaDg.
,- with expectoration, in the morning,
· Eu1,1h. Nu:n. Phos. ac. Pot.c.
- - m the forenoon, Alum.
- - in the afternoon, Amm. m.
ErHming~cough, Amb. Amm. m. Ars.
Artem. Bar. c. Calc.c. Calc. •· Carb. a.
Carb.w. Cham. Grapll. ·Hydr. Jamb.
Ind. Mgn. m. Mez. Nitr. ac. Nuz 11.
Petr. Phoe. Phos.ac. Rut. Sep. Sod.
chi. Stann. Staph. Sulph. Tab. Toz.
Verat. Verb.
- in bed, Ago. Amm.c. Anac. Ars.BeU.
Calc. c. Calc.s. Caps. Carb. v. Drot.
Graph. Hydr. Hy08Cl. Ign. Ind. Mgn. c.
Nux v. Par. Petr. Puis. Rut. Sep. Sod.
chi. Staph. Tox. Verb.
In the ewemng increased, Capt. Spong.
Eqectoration with the, cough, Amb.
Amm. c• .Ang. Ant. tart. Arg. Ara.
Asar. Bell. Bism. Bry. Calc. c. Cann.
Carb•.a. Carb. v. Caust. Cinch. Con.
Cupr. Dros. Euphr. Hydr. Jod. Led.
IAJC. Mgn. e. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Op.
Par. Phol• .Phos. ae. Pot. e. Pull.
Bhod. Rut. Sabad. Sabin. Scill. Sen.
&p. sa. Sod. bor. Sod. c. Sod. chL
800. s. SpC)ng. Sta.nn. Staph. &lph.
Sulph.ac. Thuy. Verat. Zinc•
...,.. bitter, Ars. ChOiu. Droll. Puh,
Eqectoration, black, Lye. Tax:.
-bloody, see Hemoptoe.
- btoo.klreaked, Arn. Bry.Cinch.Ferr.
Laur. Sabin. &d. bor.
- difficult, Cinch. Eopb. Pol c. Sep.
Stann. Sulph. Zinc. .
-easy, Arg. Verat. ·
- fetid, Ars. Calc. c. Led. Sod.c. Stann.
Sulph.
- frequent, Asar. Euph. Euphr. Jod.
Laur•.Lye. P.U. Rut. .Sen. Sep. Sil•
Stann. Sulph. Verat.
- frothy, Op. .
- gelatmous, Laur.
- gray, IA,c. Thuy.
- greenisfi, Cann. Carb.a. Carb.v. Fen.
Hyosc. Led. Mang. Par. Phos. Puts.
Sep. Sod. c. Staan. SulpA. Thuy.
- herby tasting, Phos.ae.
-Jumps, Aman. Mang. Thuy.
- nauseous, Dros.
- pellucid, Ars. Laur. Sen. Sit.
- purulent, Anac. Art. Bry. Calc.e.
Carb. a. Carb.- v. Cinch. Con. · Co&-.
Drot. Dulc. Ferr. Graph. Guaj. 1M.
LYe. Mgn. c. Phot. Pilot. ac. Plumh.
Pot. c. Sec. sa..Stann. Staph. SulpA.
(eomp. Phthisis purulent&, &>c. 30.)
- .putrid. Carb. v. COn. Cupr. Ferr. 8ep..
Stann•
.,..... reddish, Bry.
- saltish , Amb. Carb. 11. .Dros. Lye.
.Mgn. c• .Phos. &p. Sod. c. StanD.
- short, Sod. c.
- slimy, Amb. Ang. Ant.tart.Ars. Asar.
Bell. Bism. Bry. Calc.e. Carb.v.Cinch.
Dulc. Hydr. Jamb. Jod. Mang. Op.
Pbell. Phot. Plumb. Pull.Rut. Sabin.
&ill. Set. Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. cbl.
Stann. Staph. Suiph. Sulph.ao. Thuy.
Zinc. ·
- - with .blood mixed, Am. Bry.
EuP.br. Ferr. Jamb. Jod. Op. P~os.
Sabm. &d. bor. ·Sod. chl. Zmc.
(comp. blOod-streaked.)
- sour, Calc. c. Mgn. m. Pbos. Phos.ac.
- sweetish, Calc. c. Ph011. Stann. Sulph.
- thick, Arg. Calc. c. Op. Phos. StanO:
Sulpb.
- tough,viscid, Ars.Cama.Cham.Cinch.
Par. Phot. Rut. 8en. &ann. Staph.
Zinc.
- watery, Arg. Mgn.c. Stann.
.,..... white, Amb. Arg. Phos. ac. Sulph.
- yellow, Ang. Ars. Bry. Calc.c. Carb.v.
Con. Cor. Jamb. Lye. MI{Jl. e. Mang.
Phos. ac. Pull. .Sen. Sep. Spon8'•
Stann. Staph. Sulph. Thuy.
Haeking-eovgA (Kotzhusten), see abort
eough. '
lltrmoJit~ (Bluthusten),eee above "blOOil
coughed up."
Digitized by Coogle
28. Cough, and disorcters from it.
H~l& (Zehrhuiten), Nux•. PuJs.
8eauo.
Hoar• cough (heiser, raub, ecbarrig),
Assa. a.k. •· Cub. a. Cham. Cinch.
Nux v. Rhod. Samb. 8od. c. Vera&.
Yerb.
-·fJom a Mid. Sod.c.
..;. after.waeaa1ee, Ign. Nux•.
HollotD-cough, Ant. tart. Caut. Euph.
Hydr. ebL corr. Op. Phoe. Samb. SiL
Spig. Spong. YerGt. Yerb.
Hooping-cough, Ant.tcrt. Brt/. Calc. 1.
Carb. G. Cham. Cinch. Con.lnd. Ipee.
Led. Op. PheU. &mb. Sil. Sod. ehL
Spig. SulpA. Tab. (oomp. epesmodio-
cougb.) !.)) ~ ..._,_
- in children, Bry. SaN. 8ulpl.
.-. - w.i&h shrieking and h81lowing,
&mb.
- in the evening, Carb. G. Ind. Sod. ehl.
-at night, Bry. Cham. Cinch. SiL
- after eating or drinking, Bry.
In irifant., cough, Ant. tert. Arn. Bry.
CI&Gm. Samb. Sulpb.
- with shrieking and whining, Ant.
tart. ~n. Cham.
Loo•e cough , without expectoration,
Con. .
After meGll, cough, Anac. Arat. ttwt. BeD.
Bry. Dulc. Jamb. Pula. Sep. Stann.
- increased, Cham. Op.
In or after flt.eiJile•, cough, Aeon. Artem.
. Cinch. Co./f. Drw. H_yoeo. Ign.Nuxv.
Mom cough, Am. Bry. DuJc. Jamb. Pnls.
. Sep. Stann.
ln themoming,cough, Alum.Ant.a. Am.
Aur. Bry. Calc. c. Carb. a. Cham.
Cinch. Cupr. Droe. Et&plar. Grat. Jod.
1M. Lye. Mgn.e. Mi(a. '· Pot. nitr.
Pull. Rhod. SeL Sep. llod.cJal. Suiph.
Sulpb.ac. Tab. Thuy. Tox. Verat.
- chrOnic, Jod. Lye.
-in bed, Amm.c. Pot. nitr. Tox.
- inereued, Ntu:fl. Stann.
At f&iglt, cough, Aeon. Amb. Amm. c.
Amm. m. Ant. tart. Arn. Ara. &r. c.
BeU. Bry. Calad. Calc. c. Ctlrb• ..
Cau.t. Cham. Cinch. CoeC. Drw.
Graph. Grat. Hydr. Hgo~c. Jamb.
lp. bee. Led. kYc. Min.c. Mg11. m.
Jlfe:s. lllitr. ac. Nuxv. 'OL Par. Petr.
PbeU. Phoe. Pot. nitr. Pula. Rbod.
Rut. Sabad. SiL Spig. Staph. Bvlph.
. Yet'dl. Yerb. Zinc.
- before midnight, Stann. Tox.
- at midnight, BeU. .
:_ after midnight, Acoo. Aru.tart. &11.
Dry. Cham. Hydr. HyOIC. Mgn.e.
·•
At niglt, in eleep, cough, Arn. Calc.e.
~ Yerb. .
Nocturnal exacerbation, Copt. c-.Op.
Sod.•. Stroot.
In oU agei. people, oough,Caue&. Stai)D.
Periodical cough, Ara.
In pregnancy, cough, Cale.c. Coo. Phoa.
&us;K:eee hoene.
&rophuloul cough, BelL Con.
&ort cough, Aeon. Alum. Anae. Arg.
. A8ll8. &U. (',q/f. lp. Ltw.r. Nitr. ac.
Nux Y. Olean"a. Petr. Plat. Sebad.
&ill. &tLcAL Sulpb. ac. Tox.
In lilting, cough, Alum. Ferr. Guaj.
Mgn. m. Sod. c.
~ic cough, Amb. Artem. BeU.
llry. CGrb. v. Con. Dig. Dro.. Hydr. .
1c. Ign. Jpec. Lact. Led. Mgn. c.
• m. Ntu: v. Plumb. Pot.c. SiL
8 ph.
- in 'be mormug, Pot.e. Sulpb.
- in the afternoon, BeU. Bry.
- in 'be evening, Carb. v. Sod.cbL
- at night, BeU. Bry. Hgo~e. Mgn. e.
- day and night, Sulph.
- in children, BIJ':
- from talking, .utg. •
&.ffoet~ting (chokins:) cougA (Stiekhu-
sten ), Ant. tart. llry. C81c.a. Cat-b. a.
Cham. Cinch. Con. lad. Ipee. .lAd.
Op. PheU. &mb. Sil. Sod. chL Bpig.
Swph. Tab. (comp. the above and
hooping-cough.)
- in the evening, Carb. a. Ind. Sod.chi.
- at n~ht, Bru. Cham. Cinch. SiL
-in children, lJry. &mb. Sul.Ph· .
- - witbshriekingaodweepmg,&mb.
Tickling COt&gl, Alllb. .Anac. AJig. Ant.
tart. Am. BeU. Bov. Bry. Calc.c.
Carb. v. Caust. Clwm. Coleh. Con.
Dro•. EU11"- Ferr. llydr. Ipec. Lanr.
Lye. Ngo. c. Mgo. m. Mar. NtiZ fl.
Ofeaod. 01. Petr. Plwll. Phoe. ac•.
Pot. c. &bin. S.... Sen. Stp. SiL
Sod. c. Sod. cbl. Spong. Stano. Tab.
Thuy. Tox.
- in the morning, iner., Thuy.
- in the evening, Hydr. To.\',
- at night; Tox.
- day and night, Sod. obL
2)nriclll cough, Cocc.
Yelemnt. tormenting, cough, Ang. Calc.
_carb. Cann. Cincli. Cocc. Oroc. Hydr.
ebl. corr. Led. llln:. Mnr. ac. ~fl.
Op. Plull. .Rhod. Sci1l. SeL Sod. c.
Spig. Stann. :
Wi~Clwn.
I J '•
'- ~~ £· - ~ ~· .-:.
,A~. __!zedbyGoogle
·570
2g. Respiration.
Altlma, see "tightness".
- humid, Bar. m.
htlamo millari, Aeon. Ars. Igra. Ipec.
Moech. Nuxv. Op. Puis. Samb. (comp.
suffocating fits.)
Brut/a,offensive, Aeon. Amb. Aur. Cap&
Carb. v. Croc. Dl'Oil. Hydr. Hyoec.
Mez. Nuzv. Plumb. Sass. Verb.
- putrid, Am. ArB. Aur. Nitr.ac.
- eour, Nux'Y.
Dwp rupirstiora(Tiefatbmigkeit),Aman.
Ant. s. Aur. BelL Calc. e. Calc. s.
Camph. Olpt. CGil. Croc. Cupr. Dig.
EfJOfa. HelL Hydr. Laeh. Mur. ac.
Oleand. Par. Phos. Plat. Pot.e. Rtm.b.
Ran. ee. Sus. Sel. ~n. Sil. Sod. e.
Spong. &ann. Ther. Thuy.
- &Om beavineN at the heart, Croc.
- in sitting, Laeh.
Difficult respiration, Dyepnma, Aeon.
Aman. Ant. tart. Am. A-. Aur.
Bell. Bry.Calc.e.Cale.s. Cann.Canth.
Ccri.w. C..t. Cie. Cinch. Cokh. Croc.
Cgc. Euphr. Hell. Hydr. HJOIC. lgn.
JiHl. Kram. Lye. Mgr. Up. Phot.
Plat. Plumb. Pot. c. Ran. b. Sabad.
Sus. see. Sm. Sod. bor. Sod.e. Spig.
Stann. Stram. 8ulph. Tereb. TolL
Val. Verat. Violod. ·
- like a weight on the chest, Canu. lgn.
Rhm. Sabad.
- in the evening, with anxit>.ty, Phol.
- 88fromcongestionofthebloOd,Aman.
Tereb.
- from ctryne. ofthe n.a, C,Oth.
- ia lyio~, A.a. .
- in BittinJ, Alum. Eultbr. Phos. Ven&.
- in walki~, Carb. v. trox.
- with anxJOumese or palpitation of
the heart, Violod.
Noile produced by brea~:
- when insJ?iriDg, Artem. &U. Caps.
Cham. Cinch. Coloc. Hyoec. Ign.
. Mp. s. Nuz v. Pula. Rhm.
- w6en expiring, Ant. tart. Mgn. s.
Nu:n. op.
- - puffing, Cineh.
- - rattling, Calc.o.
--snuffing, Mgn.s. Nux'Y.
- - wheezio~, Sod.ehl .
06ttrucud retpiNlion ( Athem- Ver-
~~etsung), Aeon. Ant. tart. Bism. Bry.
Calc. e. Canth. Cap& Carb. v. Cauat.
Cocc. Croc. Orat. Ign. Laur. Nitr. ac.
01. Op. Plumb. PUis. Ran. ae. Rut.
Sabad. &mh. Sel Sil. Spong. &oma.
8tram..._""'ph. Val. Vt~raL Verb. .
- 88 iCin~ back, Calc. e. Sus.
- in the ~·on
of the stomach, Laur.
- in the th t, CMm. 'Jocc. Con.
- iD dle mo , in bed, Ant. tart.
Obttructed retpiration, in the evenil)g,
in bed, Ant. tart.
- at night, Pot. c. Sel. Sttmn.
- when ucending, Canth. Grat.
- - steps. Nitr. ac. ·
- from pain in the chest, Biam. Cape.
.Croc. Plumb. Ran. ae. Rut. Spong.
Val. Verb.
- when coughing, lgn. Sil.
- when exercising, Stann.
-from flatulency, Carb. v.
- in lying, Samb.
- - on the back, 01. Sil.
- - on the left aide, Puis.
- during meals, Mgn. m.
- after meals, Cham.
- from change of the position, better,
01.
- in running, Sil
- from pain in the sacral region, 8el
- from stooping, Calc. c. Sil.
- 88 fiom eulphur-vapora, Ptd..
- wht>n talking, Caust. Lam. Sulph.
- With anxioUinMS, Pula.
- with nausea, Canth.
- with palpitation of the bean, Pule.
Nitr.ac.
Opprettion of the ebeJ (Bruatbekl~
mung), ACDn. Amb. A1Uic. Ang. ARt.1.
Ant. tart. Am. Ar•. Artetn. A11a.
Bar. m. Bell. Berb. Bruc. Bry. Calc.s.
Corwplt. Cann. Cantlt. Carb.w. Cinch.
CokA. Croc. Cyc. Droll. Dule. Evon.
Graph. Grat. llydr. Hydr. eulJ>h. rub.
htn. Ipee. Lact. Lye, Mgn.e. Msn.m.
1\lyr. Petr. PheiL Phol. Phos. ac. Plat.
Plumb. Pot. nitr. Puis. JUn. b. RW.
&bad. Samb.Sec. Sm. &p. Sil. Spig.
· Stann. Sulph. Tab. Tltuy. Toz. Vat
Verct. Verb.. Viol. od. Viol. tric. Zi.c.
- ofany kind, Phos.
- anxioWJ, Aeon. Anae: Ant. tart. Am.
Artem. Cann. Nuxv. OJ). PI!M. Plat.
Pot.c. Puis.Sabad.Spig.&ann.Staph.
Tab. Thuy. Val. Verat.
- compreeeing, Coloo.
- eODBtant, Lye.
- eonatringing,Aeon. Aman. Ar•. Aur.
. Bov. Campb. Canth. Carb. a. Coee.
Dig. Dros. Ferr. Ipee. Law. Led.
Mgn. c. Mo.cll. Myr. Phos. ae. Plat.
Pta.. RJwJ. Sus. Sil ~· Staph.
Stram. Tab. Verat. (see tlghtne&B.
spasmodic.) -
- d~ving into the open air, Anae.
- pamful, Amb. Con.
- periodic.oaJ, Colcb. Plumb.
- pre&Bing._ Ang. IJrv, Colch. Mgta. '·
Ran. &e. Rhod. Seu.~pig. Val Viol.od.
Zinc.
- &om the ecrobiculua proceding,Myr.
o, tzedbvGoogle J
----~~
~------------~
-
29. Respiration.
-~· ae from 8111phur-vapours,
Camph. Croc. •
- tightening, Colch.
- in the morning, Dig. Nux v. PhOIIL
- - in bed, Mgll. 11.
- in the evening, Plun. Zinc.
~ - in bed, Con. Sep.
- at night, Amm. m. Berb. lgn. Mgn.e.
Nux v. Petr. Sep. Tox.
- when II.IICencling, Are. OL Pot. nitr.
- - steps, Ang.
- when bending forward, Sen.
- in cold air, Are.
- whencoughing, Drw.(comp.Sec.28.)
- when exercising, Plun.
- in lying, AMa. Oletand. Sep.
-after meals, AMa. Nuxv.
- in the open air, Are. Lye. Sen.
- from the preeeure ofthe cloths,CaUIIt.
Sue.
- in rest, Sil.
- in standing, PheJL Sep.
- in talking, Or-o..
- when wlilkin![, Sep.
- - in the open air, Lye.
- - quickly, Ang.
- with copious expectoration, &p.
- - checked, &p. .
- with heat, Anac.
- with palpitation ofthe heart, Grat.
- with warmth rising up in the chest,
· Ant. tart. Plat.
- with weeping, Rtm. b.
P•alym ofthe lung•, Ant. ttlf't. &r. c.
LGur. PhOIIL (comp. suft'ocating ca-
tarrh.)
Parline~t, eee tightnflllll of the chest. ·
Jl.apiration in general:
- anxioua, Aeon. Aeth. Ana. Bell. Bry.
Calc.'·Ipec. Ltmr. Plat. Plumb. Scill
Sec.
- asthmatic, puny (keuchend), Artem.
Carb. a. Ipee. Nitr. ac. Phos. Plumb.
--with manual labor, Nitr.ac.
- - in walking quickly, Sil
- cold, f!o1·
- convulaive, Cupr.
- det>p, 888 "deep"~
- difficult, 888 "difficult".
- in erect stancling only poesible,Cann.
- in high pollture only JIOSIIible, Cinch.
- hiccoug&ing, Aeth. ADg. Aua. LeJ.
Sec.
- - in lying, Aua.
- hoa1'1!8, Calc. e. Pot. c.
- hot, Mang. Sod. chi. ·
- hurried, quick, Aeon. A1111. BeU.Bry.
Calc. e. Cut. Cupr. Hell lpec. Puis.
&mb. lileill Sulph. · ·
- iDterrupted, Aog. ArtUI. BelL Op.
Re,nration, irregular, Ang. Anem. Bell
Op.
- loud, Op. Phoe.
·- moaning, Bell. Cupr. Mur. ae.
- painful, Led. Viol od.
- quick, see hurried.
-rattling, Ant.tart. Bry. Cale.e. Cupr.
Laur. Lye. Sulph.
- short, small, Aeon. Aeth. Artem. BeU.
Bry. Calc. s. Cann. Cast. Puts. Sulph.
- elow, tardy, Bell. Carnph. Catt. Hell·
Laur. Oleand. Op. Spong.
- snarling (sehn..rehelnd), Calc.tulph.
Cham. Laur. Lye. Op. Petr. Sod.ehl
Stann. Sulph. ·
- snoring, Arn. Camph. Cinch. .
- sobbing, suspirious, Ant. a. Bry.Ipec.
Ran. se. Sec. Sil. Stram. Ther.
- stertorous, Anae, Ant.tart. Arn. BeD.
Cann. Carb. a. Cupr. Hyose. Laur.
Lye. Op. Petr. Pul8. Spong. Stann.
- - in the evening in bed, Carb. a.
- - when lying on the Bide atrected,
Anac.
- weak, Laur. Phos. Viol. od.
- wheezing (giemend), Calad. Cham.
Cinch. Nitr. ac. Samb. Sulph.
- - in the evening in bed, Sod. chi.
- whistling, Amb. Calc. e. Cann. Cham.
Cinch. PhOIIL Pot. c. BaWd. &m.b.
~·Stann. Sulph.
~ratwn, disorders of:
- an the moming,Amb.Ant.tart.Carb.a.
Con. Dig. Nuxv. Plun. Pot.c.
- - in bed, Ant. tart. Carb. a. Con. •
Mgn. s. .
- in the evening, Ant. tart. Art. Cinch.
Con. Cye. Ferr. Nuxv. Plun. Pull.
Stann. Sulph. Tox. Zinc.
- - in bed, Ant. tart. Art.Carb. a.Con.
Cinch. Ferr. Graph. Sep. Sod.chl
- at night, Amm. m. Ar1. Aur. Bry.
Calc. c. Cinch. Coloc. Dig. Ferr.
Graph.lgn. Mgtl.e. Nuz v.Petr. PhOIIL
Plumb. Pot.c. Pull. &mb. Sel &p.
Sta11n. Sulph.
-when ueending an eminence, Ant.
Aur. Canth. Cut. Cupr. GraL Hydr.
01. Pot. nitr. Stann. Zinc.
- - steps, Amm. e. Ang. Hytlr. Hyoee.
Kram. Nitr. ae. Rut. 8en.
- when bending forwards, Sen.
- u from congestionoftheblood.Aowl.
Calc. e. Puis. Tereb.
- from bodily exertion, Amm. e.
- from pain in the chest, Sel
- in nhildren, Amb.Calc. c. Lye.
- from cold air, Are. Petr.
- after a cold, lpec.
- when coughing, 888 Sec. 28.
- after drinking, Nux Y,
- .. from dUll&, lpec.
.572 29. Respiration.
RupirtJtion, diaorden of: Sep. Sil. Sod. c. Sod.chl. Sod.s.Stann.
- when evacuating, ToL see Sec. 22. Sulph. Tox. Verat. Viol. od. Zinc.
- when e:xercliiing, Ar•. Con. Led. Short breathinl{, in the morning, Pot. c.
Pho6. Stann. Verat. - in the evenmg, Cye. Tox.
- with expectoration, too copious, Sep. - - in bed, Sep.
- - checked, Sep. - at night, Sep.
- from datulency, Carb.w. 01. Zinc. ' - when ascending, Cast.
- from labor, Bov. Lye. SiL - - steps, Amm. e. Hydr. Hyose. Sen.
, - - manual, Amm. m. Bov. Nitr. ae. - in children, LfJc.
Sil. Sod. chl. - as from dust, lpec.
- in lying, Ant. tart. An. Aea. Calc.•. - when exercising, Verat.
Dig. Nux v. Oleand. PheU. PAM. -from flatulency, Zinc.
Samb. Sep. -from any labor, LfJc.
- - on the back, 01. Phoe. Sil. - - manual, Bov. Sil.
- - deep with the head, Calc.e. Cinch. - in lying, Sep.
Colch. Pot. nitr. Pula. - after meals, Ars. Myr. Puis. Zinc.
- - on the &ide, Carb. a. Puis. - in the open air, Sulph.
- during mE'als, Mgn. m. - in rest, Sil.
- after meals, Ara. As&a. Carb.a. Cham. - in standing, Sep.
Cinch. Lach. Myr. Nuxv. Phoe. Puh. - when walking, Carb. v. Con. Phell.
SvlpA. Viol. trio. Zinc. Sep. Sod. s.
- from mucW!I accumulated,Cinch.Sen. - - in the open air, Sulph.
-in the open air, An. Aur. Lye. SeL --rapidly, Hydr. Sen. Sil. Sod. ehl.
Sen. Sulph. - as from weakness, Cye.
- with the pains, An. PuU. Sil. - with tension in the chest, Tox.
- periodicaf, Colch, Plumb. Suffocating catarrh (Stickfluss), Ant. s.
- from the pret18ureofthecloths,CausL Bar. c. Camph. Jod. Op. Plumb. Samb.
Sass. Sec. (comp. the next and paralysis of
- by poeture, change of, relieved, OL the lungs.)
- when at rest, Ferr. SiL Suffocatingfits, Aeon. Ant. s. Ant. tart.
- when retracting theshoulders,reliev., Ars. Aur. Bell. Calc.s. Camph. Carb.a.
Calc.c. Cham. Cinch. Coif. Con. Cupr. Cyc.
- after running, Sil. Dig. Ferr. Graph. lpec. Led. .Mosch.
- from pein in the 118Cral region, Sel. Nux v. Op. Phos. Plat. Puls. Samb.
- in acrophulous individuals, Amb. Sec. Stram. Sulph. Verat. (comp. the
- in sitting, Alum. Dig. Eupbr. Phos. above and "obstructed respiratiOn".
• &mb. Verst. - in the morning, Dig.
- in standing, PheD. Sep. - - in bed, Ant. tart. Carb. a.
- from the st.omaeb originating, Caps. - in the evening, in bed, Ant. tarL Ars.
- when stooping, Calc.c. SiL Cinch. Ferr. Graph.
- u from sulphur-vapoun, Camph. -at night, Cinch. Graph. Nuxv. Phos.
Croo. Pwh. Puis. Samb. Sulph.
- when swallowing, BelL · - in lying, Calc. s.
- when talking, Caost. JJro.. Lam. - when touching or turning the neck,
Sulph. Bell.
- when touching the throat, Bell. Lach. - with burning beat on the trunk and
- when turning the throat, Bell. cold extremities, Ferr.
- when walking, Aman. Carb. v. Con. - withrestlessness and weeping, &nnb.
Led. Phell. Sel.Sen. &p.Sod.e.Stann. Tightne,. ofthe che1t (.Eoa'brllltigkeit),
Stroot. AI. Alum. Aman. Amb. A-.c. Anac.
- - in the open air, Aur. Lye. SeLSen. Ar1. Artem. Aur. Bar. e. Bell. Bry.
- - quickly, rapidly, Ang. Aur. CaWit. Calad. Calc. c. C..ma. eap.. Carb. a.
Cupr. Hydr. Pot. e. Sen. SiL &d. Carb. v. Cinch. Oic. Coec. O:lkla.
cAl. Coloc. CoR. Cupr. Dig. Drol. Dulc.
- as &om a weight on the chest, Cann. Euph. Ferr.Graph.Grat. Hydr.Hyoac.
Ign. Rbm. Sa&ad. Ign. Jod. Ipee. La.r. Led. Lye. Mes.
Short breathmg, Aman. Amb. Amm. o. Myr. Nitr.ae. Nuv. ·cf,; Par. Pew.
Anac. Ant. tart. Artem. AMr. &w. Pho6. Pial Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Pwlt.
Cann. Carb.w. Cut. CauM. Con. C'Tf'. Ran. ac. Rhm. RAo4. Rut. 8-. SoiD.
Eupb. llydr. Ipee. Lye. Myt:. Nitr. Sec. Sel. Sen. &p. Sil. Sod.e. Sod.
ac. PhelL1>11011. Phaao. Plct. Plumb. cbL Stann. Svlp/J. SulpA. IIC. Tbuy.
Puis. Ran.b. Rut. &bad. Sass. &ft. VeNt. Viol.ol. \'iol. tric. ·
·"' ·•
' .
Dig1tizect by Coogle
lj
J
j
29. Respiration.- 30. Interior.chest and heart. · 513 ·
~latnu1, ofany kind, Phol.
- spasmodic, Ala Caust. Cupr. Ipec.
. ud. M~nch. Op. Ph{)(l. Phos. ac.
Plumb. Pot.c. PUll. San. Sec. Zinc.
(eomp."oppreesion,constringing"and
See. 30. spasms.)
·- asiffrom thestomach and ecrobiculoa
proceding, Cape. Ferr.
straining aci'OIIII the chest, Calc.c.
- aa from fulness, Calc. c. Pule.
- in the morning, Carb. a. Con. Phoe.
Pot. c.
- - in bed, Con.
- in the evening, Ferr. Nux v. Phol.
Puh. Stann. Zinc.
- in bed, Sep.
- at nigllt, Amm.m. Aur. Bry. Coloc.
Dig. l='err. PW.. Sep. Sulph.
- when ascending, Cupr. Hydr. Stann.
--steps, Hydr. Led.
- after bodily exertion, Amm. c.
- in children, Amb.
- from cold air, Petr.'
- after drinking, Nux v.
Tightne11, when e:tercising, Led. Pbos.
- in lying, Dig. Nux v. Sep.
- - deep with the bead, Pot. nitr•
- - honzontall,, Pule.
- from manual labor, Amm.m. Sod.chL
- after meals , Carb. a. Lach. Phoe.
Pula.
- in the open air, Aur. SeL
- - relieved, Sod.chl.
- in rest, Ferr.
- when retracting the shoulders, ~
lieved, Calc.c. ·
- in scrophulous indiv., Amb.
- !n Rittin$', Dig. Verat.
- m staodm~, Sep.
- when talkm~, Droe.
- when walkmg, Aman. ·Led. &p.
Stann. Stroot.
- - in the open air,
- - rapidly, Cupr. Hydr. Pot. c.
Wont ofbreath, Are. Cinch. Cye. Lam.
.Lye. Stann.
- when exercising, Are.
- when talking, Lam.
30. lnte1ior chest and heart.
AtiMiion, sene. of, lungs, EupA. Mez. Phos. Pot. c. Ran. b. Sabad. &..
Pot. nitr. Ran. b. Sen. Thuy. 8pong. Sulph. Tab. Tong. Zinc.
Angino pectoril, Are. Dig. 8omb. - - at night, Lach.
Anziety in the chest, Aeon. Anac. Bry. - - when breathing, Pot c.
Carb. v. Cocc. Hyosc. Lam. Mar. - - when coughing, Mgn. m. (cornp.
. Nitr.ac. Nu:ev. 01. Pboe. Sen. Spig. Sec. 28.)
Spong. Stann. Viol. od. - heart, Carb.v. Op. Pule.
-about the heart, Ar1. Bell Calc. c~ -sternum, Mez.
Cann. Cautt. Cham. Cl!tf. Croc. Dig. As ifbur1ting p.,.Artem. Sen.
Evon. Hydr. Lye. Moech. Nu:e v. Carditi1, see inflammation ofthe heart.
Plat. Plumb. Pull. Spong. Verat. Chilline11, in the cheat (eveDing), Ar1.
Viol. tric. (comp..Sec. 5. conscience - left side, Sod. chi:
alarmed.) Coldne11, sene. ofin the cheat, Carb. a.
As ifbeaten, p., Amm. m. Evon. Lye. 01. Lach. Rut. Sulph. Zinc.
Ran. sc. Sit. Stann. (comp. Sec. 31.) Compre11ing, sens., Aeon. Aman. Af'll.
Blood, agitation of, Cocc. Nux v. Ol Coloc. Evon. Men. Oleand. Rut.
Plumb. Rbod. Sen. Sep. Thuy. - - at night, RuL
- conge~~tion to the cheat, Amm. c. Aur. - at the heart, Sod. chi.
Bell. Carb.v. Cinch. Cocc. Dig. Ferr. Contraction (constriction), Alum. Am.
Jod. Kram. .Vitr. ac. Nux v. Ph~n. . Ar1. Asar. Bi6m. Caps. Cocc. Cupr.
Pule. Rhod. SciJI. Sen. Sep. Spong. Dig. Ferr. Hell. lgn. Kram. Lour.
Sulph. Tbuy. · Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mosch. Nitr. ac.
- - at night, Pule. Nu:e v. Op. Phos. Pot. nitr. Puis.
- - after exertion and motion, Spong. Rhod. Sabad. Sen. Spig. Staph. Tab.
--after writing, Amm.c. • Tox. Verat. (comp. spasm, and Sec.
- '- with weaknessand nausea,Spong. 29.)
- to the heart, Cyc. Pule. Sulph. - one-sided, Cocc.
~ - Rt night, Pule. - when ascending, Nux v.
- as ifstopping, sens., Sabad. - when bending forward, Dig.
Boring,chest,Artem.Bilm.Mur.ac.~n. -from cold air, Bry.
- heart, Sen. - in ~old air or temperature worse,
Burning, chest, Amm. "· Ant. tart. An. &bad.
· Binn. Bry, Culc.c.Canth. Cast. Cham. - after drinking, Cupr.
Colch.Euph.H!~r.Kram.Lam.Laur. -from exercise, Ars. Ferr. Noxv.
Lyo. Mgn. m. Mang. Nux v. OJ. Op. - when stooping, Alum.
Digitized by Coogle
574 30. Interior chest and heart.
Contraction, tiom touch, eating and
drinking incr., Aro.
-when walking, Ferr. Nuxv.
-at the heart, Ang. ~alc. c. Pot. c.
Orackli~ (Koietero) in theche&t, Sabin.
Catting m .the che8t, Ang. Arg. Aur.
Mur.ac. Phoe.ac. Pot.c. Pule. Spig.
Verat.
- when breathingand bending forward,
Arg.
Dilatation, of the chest, eene., Oleand.
.Diltention, eene. of, Thuy.
Dratoing, Camph. Evon. Oleand. Sen.
])rop.y of the chest, Ar•. Dry. Carb. 11.
lJolch. Dig. Dule. HeU. Lye. Pot. c.
Seill Sen. SpiJ(. Stann.(Cineh.1 Op.1)
- from organfedi8ordere, Spig. ·
Emptine.., eene. of, Calad. Cocc. Oleaod.
Stann.
- after expectoration, Calad. Stann.
Aa ifeomething were faUing jONJJartl in
the cbet~t, when turning round in bed,
eena., Sulph.
Pulne••, eena. of, Aman. Bar. c. Calc. c.
Carb. v. Myr. PM.. Pula. RuL Sep.
Spong. 8ulph. Tereb. VeraL
- in the morning, Sulph.
Gntltoing, p. eh., Ran. tiC.
Guitgling (Gluckero), when breathing,
lnd.
Heart, affections of, in IJeneral, Aeon.
Aur. HyOIIC. PW.. S,W.
Heart-beating, 11.uttering, lJod. ehl.
- increased~ Are. Bar. c. Bar. m. Dig.
Dule. Ferr. magn. Mur. ac. Sabin.
- intermitting, sep. &d. chl.
-irregular, Aeth. Laur. &d.chl. Zinc.
-lower, eeemingly, Cann.
- slow, Laur.
- tremulous, Calc. c. Sod. chi. Staph.
- twitching, Arn.
Jl«wt, palpitationof(Herzklopfen), Aeon.
Alum. Amb. Amm. c. Ang. Ant. tart.
Ar•. A..a. Aur. Bar. c. Bar. m. BeU.
Diem. Bov. Bry. Calc. c. Cann. Canth.
Carb.a. Carb. v. Cmut. Cioch. Caoc.
ColcA. Coloe. Con. Cop. Cuf.r. Cyc.
Dig. Ferr. Graph. Grat. Hel . Hytlr.
Jotl. I pee. Lye. Mgn. m. Myr. Nitr.ae.
Nuzv. Oleantl. Par. Petr. PM.. Plat.
Plumb. Pot. e. Pot.nitr. PW..Sabad.
Sa88. Sec. Sen. 8ep. &d. c. &d. chl.
Spig. Staph. Stroot. Sulph. Sulph. ae.
Tab. Thuy. Verat. Viol. od. Zinc.
..:.. ofany kind, PM..
- anxious, Aeon. Ant. tart. Ar•. Cale.e.
Dig. Lye. Moech. Nitr. ae. Nux v.
Oleantl. Phoe. Plat. Plumb. PW..
Sod.e. Sod. chl. Spig. 8ulph. Verat.
Viol. od. Viol. tric. Zinc.
- audible;_Campb. Dig. Spig. TAuy.
- eoneU88tVe1 Sen.
Heart,pal_pit«iora of, palpable,externally,
Cyc. Dulc. Mur. ac. Plumb.
- reverberating, in the bead, Bell.
- spaamodic, Jotl. &c.
- vebement,A~Aur.BeD. Bry.Carb.v.
Cinch. Colch. · . Jotl. Oleand. PW.
Pot. nitr. Puh. . Sen. Sep. &d.c.
Sod. ehl. SviJr, 8ulph. Thug. Tox.
Verat. Viol:ocT.
- vi.sibkl, Ant. tort. Spig. lltAlpA. VftWI.
- in the morning, Carb.a. Pboe.
- - in bed, Pot.e.
- in the eveuing, Ang. Carb.a. Nuxv.
Pbos.
- - in bed, Ang. Lye.
- at night, Amao. Ar•. Calc. e. Dale.
Mur. ac. PoL nitr. Pula. Sod. c.
- when ~U~Cending, Sulph.
- .:.... stepe, Nitr.ac. Boa.e. Thug.
- after drinkin~, Coo.
- after e'f&eUatiOn, Ant.tart. Cauat.
- when exercising, Grapl. Nitr. ae.
Par. Sod. ehl. 8tilph.
- - relieved, Mgn. m.
- by exertion increased, Jod.
- from the hymn- tune in church,
Carb. a.
- when lyin«, Viol od.
- - on the Bide, Ang. Par. c. Pula.
Sod.e. Sod. ehl. Tab. Viol tric.
- - - left, Ang. Puis. Tab.
- - on the back, Are.
-after meals, Calc. c. Campb. Lye.
Nitr. ae. Phoe. Tbuy.
- after mental affection, Pboe.
- from mental exertion, Rtaph.
- from music, (Carb. a.) Staph.
- when at rest, Par. Tox.
- in Bitting, M~. m. Phoe. Spig. Tox.
- - bent, AnL Dig. .
- after sleflp at noon, Staph.
- in standing, Amu.
- froom stooping, Ang. 8pig.Sulph.ae.
- when walking, Nitr. ae.
- - in the open air, Amb.
Heart, palpitation of, attended by:
- blood agitation of, Pot. c. SabecJ.
- countenance, pale, Amb. ·
- giddin888 and reetleeeneal, Bov.
- headaebe, Bov.
- heat, Nitr. ae.
- - vital, iner., Aeon.
- nausea, Bov. Tbuy•
- ret~piration, affected, Aoon. Dry. Puis.
Verat.
- eight, obeeuration of, PUZ..
- syncope, Myr.
Heat in the eb., Ar•. Bar.m. Diam. Bry.
Cut. Cic. Kram. Maog. Nuv. Op.
Pule. RuL
- abou~ the heaJ1, Op.
Digitized by Coogle
I '
30. Interior chest and heart. 575
Heavinen (weight), sens. in the chest,
Aeon. Amm. e. Amm. m. Bar. c. Cast.
Lye. Mgn. m. Myr. Nu:r; v. Oleand.
Pho8. Plat. Rhm. Sep. Stann. Staph.
Sulph.
- in the morning, Sulph.
- at night, Amm. m.
- when ascending, Bar. e.
- when breathin~- deep, Cnst.
- duriu~ meals, ~n. m.
.
- in sittm~, Staph.
- by walking relieved, Staph.
- sens. of, at the heart, Croc. Puis.
Hydrothorax, see dropsy.
Jerks in the chest, As-tern. Scill. Val.
- - when breathing, Lye.
- at the heart, Sod. chi.
In.jlammation, of the heart, Aeon. Ars.
Bry. Cann. Coce. Puis. Spig.
- lungs, Aeon. Ant. tart. Ars. Bell. Bry.
Cann. Canth. Cinch. Hydr. Phos.
Phos. ae. Pot. nitr. Puls. Sabad. ScilL
Sen. Sep. StraiD. Sulph. Tox. (Cop.1
Nuxv.1 Op.'! Verat.1)
- - after misuse of aconit, Bry.
- - in aged persons, Bry.
- - after a cold, Camph.
- - neglected, Sulph.
--nervous, &II. Bry. Cinch. Con.
Hyo8c. Laur. Lye. Phos. ac. Puis.
Stram. To:x:. (Ant. tart. 1 Op.1
Verat.1)
- - from weakness, Cinch.
- pleura, Aeon. Bry. Phos. Scill.
- - rheumatic, Arn. Bry. Nux v.
Sabad.
Jumping sens., in the chest, Croc.
Languor(Mattigkeit),in thechest,Carb.v.
Phos. (comp. weakness.)
- in the everung, Ran. sc.
- from reading aloud, Cocc.
- from singing, Carb. v.
Lightness, sensation of, when breathing,
Stann.
Like something living in the chest, sens.,
Oroc. Led.
Looseness, sens. of, Bry.
Like a lump, seos.
Motion, spasmodic, in the chest, Arn.
Mucus, see Sec. 27.
Oppression of the chest (Beklemmung),
see Sec. 29.
- at the heart, Cann. Caust. Mgn. m.
Spig. Viol. tric.
- - with dolefulness, Caust.
Pain, in gen., chest, Coloc. Dulc. Phos.
Sep.
- about the heart, Laur. Sod.chl. Spong.
Thuy.
--in the evening, Ran.sc. Verb.
- - at night, -~nt. tart. Ran. sc.
- - when ascending steps, Aeon.
Pain, about the heart, when exercising,
Aeon.
Phlegm, see Sec. 27.
Phthisis, pulmonalis, Dulc. Kreos. Phos.
Sen. Sep. Sil. Stann.
- acute, Ars. Dry. Cinch. Dros. Dulc.
Ferr. Laur. Puis. Sod. chi.
- pituitoll!!, Dulc. Phos. Sen. Stann.
- purulent, ulcerous, Ars. Bry. Calc. c.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Cinch. Dros. Guaj.
Hydr. Hyosc. Jod. Kreos. Led. Lye.
Myr. Nitr. ac. Pho8. Pot. c. Puis. Sep.
Sil. Sod. chi. Stann. Sulph. (comp.
Sec. 28. expectoration, purulent.)
- tuberculous, Calc. c.
Pinching, p. ch., Ran:sc.
Pleuritis, see inflammation.
Like a plug, sens., Anac. Aur.
Pneumonia, see inft. of the lungs.
Pressing (Pressen), sens., Amb. Cic. Sen.
--during meals, Preon.
- asunder, Euph.
Pressure (Drhcken), in the chest, Alum.
Amb. Amm.c. Anac. Arg. Ars. Asar.
Assa. Bar. c. Bell. Bism. Bry. Calc.c.
Carb. v. Cast. Caust. Cic. Cinch. Cocc.
Colch. Cupr. Dig. Graph. Grat. Hydr.
Hyosc. lgn. Lam.Laur. Lyc.Mgn.m.
Mez. Mur. ac. Myr. Nu:r; v. OJ. Op.
Phos. Phos. ac. Plat. Plumb. Pot. c.
Pot. nitr. Ran. b. Ran. sc. Rhod. Rut.
Sabad. Sabin. Sen. S~.P.· Sil. Sod. c. '
Spig. Stann. Staph. IStram. Stroot.
Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Tar. Thuy.
Verat. Viol. od. Zinc.
- lower chE>.st, Bism. Mar. Val. (comp.
Sec. 20.)
- about the heart, Amb. Bell. Calc. c.
Cyc. 01. Puis. Sen.
- on the sternum, Arg. Ars. Assa. Bry.
-in the sides, Arg. Aur. Par. Sulph.ac.
- constant, Lye.
- in the morning, Sulph.
- - in bed, Mgo. m. Phell. Sen.
- in the evening, in bed, Sep.
- at night, Alum. Mgn.s. Sen.
- when ascending, Bar. c.
- when coughing, Sil. Suiph. (comp.
Sec. 28.)
- after drinking, Verat.
- when exerting, Kram.
- when gapin~, Sulph.
- when laughmg, Plumb.
- in lying, Assa.
- - o.n the side affected better, Phell '
- after meals, Cinch: Thuy. Verat. ·
- when respiring, Chel Pot. c. Scill.
- - deep, Agn. Plumb.
- when at rest, Sen.
- when sitting, Staph.
- - bent, Dig.
Digitized iJy(;pogle
576 30. Interior chest and heart. .
Pruture when sneezing, Sil. Sulph.
- from talkin~, Stram.
- when walking, better, Staph.
Pul.stion, Amm. m. A81!a. Hydr. eulpb.
rub. Sen. (eomp. Throbbing.)
- in standing, Amm. m.
R4ffi"'f, eens. in the cheat, Samb. Stroot.
Jllupi"'f p. in the chest, Carb. 11.
Rlsumeu, see eorenees.
Rending, Berb. Coleh. Cye. Phos. Pula.
Spig. Zinc.
Rut~", in the chest, Bell. Sen.
&apia. Thuy.·
- about the heart, Anac.
R/aeumotic pain, ·Ant. tart. Am. Nux•·
Ron. b.
Rmng up, bot, in the chest; 01. Pho&
Pl&t. Thuy.
RoUiJlff, Coec.
8/wckl (Stiisee, Rucke), Ang. Calc. c.
Clem.Con. Croe. Dulc. Mang. Mur.ae.
Plot.
-about the heart, Alum. Ang. Ant;
tart. Cann. Con. Mang.
8orene11, eens. of, Amb. Ant. tart. Berb.
Brue. Calc. c. Carb. 11. Colch. Ewon.
IJ.lOO· Lye. Mgn. c. Nice. Phoe. Pot.
mtr. Sen. Stann. Staph. Tab.
- - when breathing, Calc. c. Nitr. ae.
--when coughing, Nitr.ae: (comp.
Sec. 28.)
- - when exeJICUring, Colch.
- - from talking, Lye.
- - when touched, Calc.e. Colcb.
- at the heart, Mgn. c.
- at the'sternum, MeL Sabin.
~ in the chest, Ang. Ars. Bell.
Campb. Cocc. Coleh. Cupr. Ferr.
Graph. Hydr. Hyo«:. Ipec. M01cla.
Nitr. ac. Nw: 11. PhOI. Pot. c. Puis.
See. Sep. Stram. Sulpla. VtriJt. (comp.
contraction.) .
- hysteric,Are. Bell.Cocc.MOICia.Stram.
-to bend forward, compelling, HyOIIIC.
- when coughing, Pot. c.
- by exercise and walking iner., Ferr.
- from the vapoura ofarsenic and cop-
per, Camph. Hydr. lpee. Nuxv.
- with heat and agitatron of the blood,
Puis.
Bqueezi"'f (Klemmen), eens. in the ch.,
Artem. Bism. Graph Mar. PhOI. ac.
PltJt. Sen. Verat.
Stoppage, eens. ofin the lungs, Sen:'
&inging, in the chest, Aeon. Aman.
Amm.c. Amm. m. Ang. Ant.I. Am.
Artem. Asar. Aeea. Aur. Bar. c. BeD.
Bov. Bry. Calc.c. Cale.e. Camph.
O.nn. Canth. Caps. Carb. a. Caust.
Cham~ Cinch. Clem. Coleb. Con.
Croe. Cye. Dulc. Evon. Ferr. Graph.
Owj. Hydr. Hydr. chL corr. Hydr.
sulph. rob. Kram. Laur.·Led. Lye-.
MaJlff. Mez. Mur. ac. Nice. Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. Oleand. 01. Ptean. Par. PhOI.
Plwmb. Pot. c. Pot. nitr. PuU. Ron. b.
Ran. se. Rhm. Rut. &ill.' &n. Sep.
Sil. &d. e. &d. cAl. &d. •· ~.
Staph. Sulph. 8vlph. ac. Tab. 'l'ar.
Ther. Thug. Tong. Th.w. Val. Verat.
Verb. Viol.od. zmc. '
&inging, at and about the heart, Aeon.
Anac. Arn. Berb. Cale.c. Cmut. Cinch.
Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Mur. ac. Ptean. Ran.
~e. Sod.chi. Spig. Swph.ac. Val. Verb.
Viol. tric. Zinc.
- aides, Aeon. Anura.c. Ang. Arg. Bry•.
Calc. c. Canth. Cinch. Clem. Con.
Croc. Dulc. Grat. Hyoec. lgtt. Men.
Nitr. ae. Nuxv. Op. Par. Petr. PM&
Phoe. ae. Plat. Plumb. Puis. &m.b.
&bad. Samb. Sase. Scill. Sep. Sil•.
Sod.c. &d. chi. &d.•. Tab. Tar. Toz.
--left, Amm.c. Herb. Clem. Eupb.
Ign. Lye. Mgn.e. Phos. Sep. Stana.
Sulph. Val Zinc.
- - riglit, Evon. Hydr. Ran. b•.
- outwards, Aua.
- through to the back, Ferr. Hydr. Sil.
Sulph. .
- chronic, Phoe.
- to bent together, compelling, 8a8s.
- to sit up, compelling, Bry.
- only supine position allowing, Bry.
- in the evening, Ran.I!IC. Verb. ·
- at night, Amm.c. Hydr. cbl.corr. Ran.
I!IC. &bad.
- wh~Ut raitring the arms, Berb. Sulph.
- - exerting, Led.
- when ascending steps, Stram. Rut.
- when breathing, Aeon. Amm. c. Ant.&
Bry.Calc.s. Cann..Caps.Cinch.Coleb.
Lye. Mur.ae. Pot.e. &bad. Seill. Sep.
Spig. Stann. Tab. Verat.
- - deep, Berb. Bruc. Bnt. ·Calc.c.
Caust. Pot. nitr. Sod. chi. Sulpb.
Tox.
- - inspiring, Asar. Bar.e•.Brv.Carb.a.
Clem. Grat. Mez. Op. !flat. Sen.
Val.
- from cold drinks, Tbuy.
-when coughing, Aeon. Bry. Cinch.
. Hydr. Pot. nitr. &bad. &ill. Sen.
&p. Sod.ehl Sod.s.
- whenexercising,CGlc.c.Cann.Grapll.
Mur. ae. Tox.
- - better, Eupb.
- when hiecoughing, Amm. m.
- from labor, bodily, Canst.
- - mental, Sep.
- when Ia~~· Nice• .
- in lying, Pot.nitr.
Digitized by Coogle
30. Interior chest and heart. 571
Stinging, in lying, on the side affected,
Calc. c. Sabad.
- - on the sound side, Stann.
- when singing, Amm. c.
- when stooping, Amm. c.
- when talking, Cann. Tox.
- when touched, Phos.
-when walking,Amm.c. Calc.s.Hydr.
sulph. rub. (Tox.)
Ulcerom pain, ch., Bry. Carb. a. Puls.
Ran. b. Suiph.
Undulating p. (wellenartiger Schmerz),
Dulc.
Tenderness (Empfindlichkeit), of the ch.,
Ang. Sen.
- when inspiring, Calc. c.
- when pressed upon, Ang.
- when touched, Calc. c. Sen.
Tension (Spannen), ch., Bell. Cocc. Colch.
Dig. Euph. Ferr. Lye. Mgn. m. Nuxv.
Oleand. Op. Pho11. Pot. nitr. Puls.
Sabin.Sep. Sod.chl. Spig. Stann.Verb.
- about the heart, Cann.
- sternum, Mur.ac. Sabin. Zinc.
- when breathing, Puis. Sod. c.
- when walking, Bry.
Throbbing, Assa. Bell. Calad. Caps. Hydr.
sulph. rub. lgn. Mang. Preon. (comp.
Pulsation.)
- about the heart, Graph.
- sternum, Sil.
Tingling, Aeon. Ars. Colch. Sen. Stann.
Tox.
Tremor, Amb. Sabin.
- at night, Amb.
Warmth, sens. of, in the ch., Hell. Mang.
01. Rhod.
- about the heart, Croc. Rhod.
Weakness, Jod. Lam. Phos. ac. Plat. Sod.
bor. Stann. Sulph. Sulph. ac. Tox.
- impeding speech, Phos. ac. Sulpb.
Sulph. ac. Tox.
- after a walk in the open air, Tox.
- sens. of, about the heart, Tox.
"Whirling, Bel\ll., about the heart, Ant.
tart.
In the morning, p. chest, Sulph.
- in bed, Phell. Phos. Sen.
In the evening, p., Ran. sc.
- in bed, Sep. Verb.
At night, Alum. Amm. c. Hydr. chi. corr.
Lach. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Ran. sc. Rut.
Sabad. Sel. Sen. .
When bendi1}$' forward, p. ch., Arg. Dig.
When breathsng, Aeon. Amm. c. Ant. e.
Bry. Calc.s. Cann. Caps.Cinch. Colch.
Led. Lye. Mur. ac. Nitr. ac. Plat.
Pot. c. Pule. Sabad. Scill. Sep. Sod.c.
Spig. Stann. Sulph. Tab.
- deep, ~n. Berb. Bry. Calc. c. Cast.
· CaWILPlumb. Pot. nitr. Sod. cW.Tox.
When bretuhing, deep, increased, Sabia.
- expiring, Colch. Dulc. Oleand.
- inspiring, Aeon. Arg. Asar. Bar. e.
Bry. Calc. c. Carb. a. Chel. Grat. Op.
Plat. Pot. c. Scill. Sen. Val.
- - incr., Clem. Guaj. Mez.
From cold air, pain chest, Bry. Carb. Y.
Petr.
From cold drinks, Thuy.
When coughin$", p., Aeon. Bry. Cinch.
Mgn. m. N1tr. ac. Pot. nitr. Sabad.
Scill. Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. chl. (comp.
Sec. 28.)
- increased, Hydr. Sen. Sod. s.
From drinking, pain chest, Cupr. TlVJ.
Verat.
- incr., Arn.
By eructation, p. rei., &r. e.
When exercising, p., Ars. Calc. c. C81Ul.
Colch. Graph. Mur. ac. Nuxv. Sep.
(Tox.)
- increased , Arn. Bry. Caps. Ferr.
Sen.
- relieved, Euph.
When gaping. p., Graph. Suiph.
When hiccoughing, p., Amm. m.
From labor, bodily, Caust.
- mental, Sep.
From laughing, p., Nice. Plumb.
From lifting wrong (Verheben), pain,
Sulph.
In lying, p., Assa. Pot. nitr.
- on the side, Sabad. Sen. Sulph.
- - affected, Calc. c. Sabad.
- - sound, Stann.
During meals, p., Preon.
After meals, Cinch. Lam. Phos. Thuy.
Verat.
- incr., Arn. Evon.
After pneumonia, p. ch., Sulplt,
By pressing upon, incr. p., Sen.
When raising the arms, Ant. Led. Sulph.
- moving the arms, Ang. Camph. Led.
When at rest, p. ch., Euph. Sen. Tab.
Tox. .
From riding on horseback, pain chest,
Graph. ·
In sitting, p., Staph.
- bent, Dig. Tox. .
When sneezing, pain , Sec. Sil. Sulph.
(comp. Sec. 26.)
When stooping, p., Alum. Amm. c. ·
- incr., Oleand.
'Mien •tretching the arms, !'ending p.,
in the ch., Herb. ,
From talking, p. cb., Cann. Lye. Pot. c.
Stram. Tqx.
When touched, p.,Amm.m. Calc.c. Coleb.
Graph. Phos.
- incr., Am. Sabin.
·When turning roual in bea, p. che.t,
Sulph.
. . ..49 ..
Digitized by Coogle
.
i
j
j
if8 30. Interiot~~ il-o. ........·311. Bteast•d nipples.
1ftM ~. ·MM..~. .,. 'OIIht.4!1. ...............lreL, ~
Hydtv~.'i'ft'b•..IJtN!. No't.'(t'ox.' From to41'7llt.f,·external, Ji11in rel. 1 .Bar•
.-..·~ Ferr. . carb.
31. ~~ast (exterior) and ·nipples.
(Pectoral ifland.=Je-le bretUt• or mamme;)
Ab.cu.IOn the brea$, Calc. •· .
As ifbetlten, p., Amb. Jlttg. At'ft.·eatad.
.:!'ftocL·(eomp. Sec. 30.) ·
:lrimtif, Oh \be br., Led.
A8'60m a fJldrD, p., Aut. e. ·CG:.
BlueJ~U• of the skin, near the ela'Hcu~Ae,
Thuy.
IIHtbn ~ \)atlb,lr.·~ .
Burning, BelL Calc.c. JOel. Led. 8el.
- pectoral glands, Phoe.
~
. plea, Pic. Grapb. 8ul))b.
, in ~m. br., A'ri. :&u. Ock. •·
. •·Oon. Kreo& BU.·&lpTa.
Caries, Con.
Chilliness, Par.
Contracting sens., Verat.
Cracks, nipples, Graph. Bulph.
Deformed nipples, Hydr.
Drawing, Carb. v. Stront.
Eruption, Calc. s. Grat. Led. Lye. Staph.
Tab. Val.
- burning after '8cratehlng, Grllt.
- like chickenpo-x, Led.
-hard, Val. .
- itching, Staph. Tab.
- - in the warmth, Staph.
- miliary, Ant. tart. Led. Staph.
- moistening, oozing, Lye.
- painful, Lye.
- - to ihe touch, Phos. ae.
- pimples, Grat. Tab. Val.
- pustulous, Evon.
- red, Staph.
- sore sm.arting, when touched, Calc. s.
- stln~g, Calc. 'S.
- vesielllous, Graph.
- on tne nipples, Graph.
Erysipelas, :pact. gl., Carb.a. Phos. Sulph.
- in lying-m women, Carb. a.
Flabbiness, Cham.
Fulness, of breasts ih lying-in women,
Bry.
Gatactor'r'hrEa, Aeon. B.ell. Calc. c. To.r.
Hardness, Bell. Cham. Clem. Cim. Hydr.
Phos. Sil.Sulph.(eomp. "iuduration".)
- nipples, Aman. Sulph.
HMt, on th"e breast, Mang.
Herpes, on the br., Ars. Pek Staph.
Indftratt"ijn, "Pect. gl., 'Bell. Bry. Carb. a.
Cham. Clem. Con. Graph. Nitr. ac.
Sil.'Sulph. (co'nip. "hardness~>.)
- after contusion, Con.
Inflammation, pect. gl., Clirb. a. Cctrb.-11.
Con. PMs. Sil. 'Sttlph.
- nipples, Phos. Sil. Sulpb.
¥cmmt~tion, 1n tytng-ibWO'inen,Carb;a.
Itching, Led. Mez.
- peeL sl, Aluin. Odn.
- nipples, Aman. Sulph.
LiVt!r..-pot•, Lye.
Miliary eruption, Ant. tart. Led. Bcaph.
Milk, bad, A'rtem. Hydr. Stann.
- bitter, Rbm.
- disappearing , CtJlc. c. Cham. Dute.
Pul8. Sulph. Tox. Zinc.
- - after a eold,d>ule.
-- ftow of, eee "Galaetorrbca".
-- wanting, Agn.
-:- yellow,"Rbm.
Jflilk-:{e'ller, Aeon. Am. BeU.J!fy. Cbam• .
Coft Hydr. Ign. Op. !'oz.
Mu.cle• twitching, Asar. Tar.
Numbnu•, Grapli.
Pain, in general, .Rsn.b. Ran. ic.
""- in the rooming, Calad.
:..... '\Vhen eXeroising, Ang. Ran.b.
- - the arms, Ang. Ant.s.
- when extending and Stk'ettbirrg, fUR.
bul. .
..... 'when Jlresi!ed upon, 'An:t.-s.
- by rest increaseil, Tox.
- when touched, Rtm. b.
Pairifulne•• of the peel gt., ltboe. BbJn.
._... ·nipples, 6raph. Solpb. .
Per.,»ration. Arn. Bov. ·Oale. e. Lye.
Pot.ilitr•.
·.-.;.. l'eddfsh, Ai'b.
- ih \he morning, BoT. Pot.nhr.
-'- at'nigbt, AmaD. Cale.e.·Lye.
Pre•ring sen&, Amb. Clitb. 'tl. Enpb.
Snlpb.
- behind tbe left nipple, Beib.
Prickling, Calc.c. Ritn.ec.
&d, points, Sabad.
...... spots, Coee. Led. Sabael.
Rending,·peet.glands, 11\mm.e. Amm.m.
Car6.v.
- durin~ eatatn'etlill, Calc. c.
Rheumatsc pain.' Amb. ·Ant.'ta'i't. ·Am.
Catb:v. Nux v. Ran;b.
;,;.;... 'pMt. gl., Bt.Y·
Bcib• on the mpples, ·f.Ote.
lfhuidtl'ffag ~atnmre,~ mg.
·&t-en«~ ni tbe nippleil, A~ Okte. t .
Ch'lilla. Graph. Lye. Btrp. Stllpb.
·8/we ~in,' tDamliite,Cit•
........ nipples, ~me. .
~ in the l*to'nll m1llllcles, :stram.
·Vetat.
~·pam, Ati·
Digitized by Coogle
, I
31. Breast and Di~ - 3~ N4pe, back, &c. 879
~. Amm. 0. Clllc.c. .Joel. Oleaacl.
SilbiD.
- mamme, Berb. Con. Gnu. Ind. Phoe.
Rhm. Sep. Sod. ohl.
- below the right m••IDM, Brae.
t!luppurtllioa, miUDIDIB, Hgdr. IUeoe.
' OP4oa.8il.. .
- nipplee, Hgdr. 8il.
- in IJing-in women, SiL
&Delliitg, mamme, BelL Cale. e. Con.
Graph. Hydr. Hydr. chi. oorr. Lye.
Phoe. Pul8. Sabin. Sil. Sulph.
- hot, Calc. c.
- of the aipplea, Hydr. Lye.
Tendenaeu, breu&, Rma. tc.
- mamme, Graph.
t'ndmleN, nilt'IIIN. Graph.
1'mrion, EupA: Joel. Lye. Mez. Oleand.
8aa Tox.
- aa iftoe short when riaing up, Sese.
l'i•glaag oa the br,, Coloh. Ran. 10.
- m••me, &bill. .
Tubercle•, mammre, Carb. G. Coloa. Con.
Graph. Lye. Ni&r. ac. Phoa. Pull.
(eomp. "iriduration".)
'fJloeu ofthe peet. gL, eee 04Supp1Jiatiion".
Yeaclu, on the aipplee, Graph.
Wrutiteg GUN~f, malnme, AN. Coo. Jetl.
Nitr.ac. ·
- nipple., Sue.
Wracli-.r ~n, Am.
Yelloao spots, Phos.
32. Nape Cof the neck), back and sacral reg~oa,
wit/a neck, •lwulder-bladu' ond orm-piU.
ANc:a• on the beck, 81L Sulpb. Clueking eena, back, Petros. 'l'u.
As ifbeGten(or broken) p. inthe cenieal Coldne.., sene. of, in the neck, chronic,
"Yertebre, Sabin. . Cole. c.
- DaJMl1 Aman. Sabin. Thuy.. - baCk, Leur. Sec.
- ahOulder-bl., Hell. Hydr. Ran.b. Sit. - aacr. region., Laur.
- bar.k, Alum. Amma. Am. Allar. Berb. Compre..ing p., back, Con.
Cinch. Dl'08. Hfdr. Kram. .MJr,.. c. CtYtUl~ng p., back, Cantb. S.W.
Mgu. e. Myr. NUv. Plw6. Plat. Pot.c. Controcbng p., neck, Amm.o. Aeu. L14:.
Rlin.b.Rbod.Rut.Sabaci.Spig.&ram. - back, Bry. Graph. Guaj. Mez. Viol.
Stroot. Thuy. Yerot. tric.
· - eacr., Aeon. Alum. At~~~~11. A,.,.. m. - aer. 1"8!·• Hell. Mga. m. Tab.
Ang. Anr. Am. Artem. Dry. Calad. Cramping pain (KhuDmeohman), Mpe,
Cole. •· Cinch. D~. Grcplt. Hydr. Arn. A•or.
~ c. Men. Jtlir. NIUC 11. PbelL - neck, Am. A•or. SaiiL
Plioe. Pz.t. Ran. b. Ran.e. Rhod. Rut. - back, Dry. Con. Eupb. Evpir. Sep.
Sabael. Sass. Staph. StNnt. Tbuy. VioL &ric.
Too%. Yerat. Crooking, see Incurvation.
.BlotoAu(Q.uaddeiR),on tlaebaek,Celc.o. Cutting, nape, Graph.
&a. on the neck, Calc. s. Graph. - neck, &lmb.
- painful &o tbe touch, Calc. •· - back, Graph. Sen. Sod. e.
Bofte•, pain in, neck, Bu. e. - eacr. reg., Sftmb. Sed. obL
- u irthe &sb wu looee, Aeon. DUGMii'JI (disabling . ) (Lihm' keit,
BMng, back, Aooo. Thuy. · lihm1g:er Schmerz\nape. 8il. 'erat.
- ebuulder-bladea, Aeon. Men. - neck, Cyc.
- ~~~eral rep,a, Aeon. - back, Aman. Aaar. Bertt. SiL Zille.
BreGtA obstructing p., ltack, Berb. Omn. - eacr. reg., Aeon. Cocc.. Raa. ee. Sel.
Led. Rut. Sulph. Tar. Sil. Sod: cAl. Zine.
- abeullfer-bladee, Calc.o. c-... PoL Drowing p., nape, Amb. A-.o. Ant. e.
nitr. Sulpb. Cor.b. v. CRSt. OiiiCA. Hytlr. Kram.
- aacr. reg., Berb. Rut. SoJpJa. Tar. Lyo. Moseh. Myr. Nux T. Pot. ni&F.
Bronclaocele, see struma. · PUZ.. Rhod. Rut. Sod.o. &.pl. Sulph.
Brotta apo&a, arm-pi&a, ThUJ. Tereb.
- baok, Sap. - neek, Ant. s. Calc. a. Owb. 11. Cye.
Burning, neck, Bar. e. Hyu. Phoe.ac. Rhod. Soill.
- eborilder-~ea, 8il. ....., ehoulder-~es, Ara,. Ben. c.Jo.e.
-back, Ar•. Bar.c. B..,..eub.a.lfycht. Calc.e. Camph. CaWil. ~ JUaetl.
Mgn:e. Nuxv. OleancJ.IiJel8en. 19ep. Rut. Sea. 8i[
- - u if a hot iron wu pieretid - back, A,mb. Aqam. c. ~,...Areem. Dry.
&Mough, Ahlm. . Calc••• q~. a.,.. <l!ri••• cu..
- ac~. reg., Pboe. Sefo: W. bor. • Oind, Cooc. Con. Cye.. ~ Hydr.
CWW u:a the ~k, J;JeU. Be.... Cape.&.aaJ. Kram. !-r!Jc.~r. Mose'b.. Nux v. Pot.c.
Jp. Sep. S,.ng. l&aaa. ll&a9ft. Pu& RIW.. 8ea. Sed. .. Sod. chi.
Digitized by Coogle
•
32. Nape, back, sacral region, kc.
Stroot. Sulph.Sulph. ac. Tereb.Tbuy.
Tox. Val. Vemt.
Drtlflling pain, sacr. reg., Amm. c. Arg.
Cinch. Coco. Croo. Dig. Ign. Nuxv.
Po&. c. Sabin. Samb. Sil Soci chL
Stram. Sulph. Sulph.ac. Tereb. Thuy.
VaL Verat.
Emt~ciGiima, baek, Tab.
E'lfi1'J'Oftlwtontu, Coath. /pee•.
Ertlptiora, on the na~, Ant.s. Ant. tart.
CaUl&. Petr. Sil. Staph.
- neck, Bry. Lye. Pbrie.ac. Pula. SeiD.
8pig. Verb.
- llhowder-bl., Ant. e. CaWJt. Phoe. ac.
- beck, Carb.v. Cauet. Evon. Phoe. ae.
Seill. Sep. Tab.
- biting, Bry.
- itchiDg, Bry. Carb. v. Pols. SeiD.Sep.
Stapb. Tab.
- lumps, Verb.
- m.iWiry, Ant.11. Ant. tart. Bry. CaUl!&.
Phoe. ac, .
- painful, Lye. Spig.
- - to the touch, Phoe. ac. SeiD. Spig.
, Verb.
- pimJllee, Carb.v. Puts. SciD. Sil.Spig.
Staph.
- pualulous, Evon.
- red, Bry. Spig. Tab. Verb.
- 110re emarting, Spig.
~-'peltu, round the waist, Hydr.
E:«oiWtWra, axilla, Carb. v.
Fllrunclu, nape, Sil.
- neck, Sod. ehl.
- ~&, Phoe. ac.
- beek; Mur. ac. Sulph.ac. Tlug.
-:-- eacr. ,.., Aetb.
Glandular affection ofthe MfH!:
- - hardne811 (induration), Bar. c.
- - inftammaUon, Sulpb.
- - IIWellin«, Btw, c. Jod. Petr. SU.
_
&4pi. Sulpb.
' - ofthe neck, (oomp. Sec. 12.)
- - drawing seas., Bov.
- - bardneee (induration), Bar. carb.
Carb. t1. Pot. c. Spig.
- - inftammation, Bar.e. BelL Cham.
Hydr. Nitr. ac. Pot.c. 8ulpk.
- - pain, Alum. Amm. m. Arn. BelL
. Calc. c. CaUl&. Hydr. Lye. Nitr.
ac. Phoe. ac. Spig. .
- - prellling p., Belt Hydr. Iga.
- - rending, Graph.
- - stinging, Bell. Carb.a, Hgdr. Lye.
- - supp_!Jta&ion, Belt Sil
- - awellil!g, Amm.· c. Am. Bar. c.
lieU. Bow. OGle.e. Cari. G. CaUIIt.
CU.. Cupr. Dulc. Ferr. Graph.
Hgdr. Jotl. Lye• .Nitr. ae. Phoe.
Pot. c. Sil. &d. c. Spig. Sapb.
8ulpll. Tbuy. VioL tric.
Glcrululdr affection ofthe neck, teDiioD.
Bov. Graph.
- af the uilla:
- - hardneM (induration), Carb. a.
Joel. Pot.e.
- - heavineaa, sen& of; Cupr.
- - pain,Amm.c.Bar.c.Sufph.ac.Tox.
- - lltinging, Lye.
- - 11uppuration,Calc.c. OGle.•· Coloe.
Hydr. Nitr. ae. Petr. Sil. Sod.chl
/Mph.
- - swelling, Amm. c. CRlc. 11. Clem.
Coloe. Jod. Lye. Nitr. ac. Pboe.
Pot. c. Sep. Sit Sod. ehL Staple.
/Mph. Sulph.ac. Tox.
Gnatoing sens., HelL Sod. 11.
Goitre, eee struma.
Gt-~ng, 1111cr. reg., Graph.
GriP'n$', back, PlllOn. Sit. VioL trie.
GrUbbing, l>ack, Aeon. Dulc. Sep.
Heo'llifaen, ens. of; nape, Men. Nuxv.
Par. Samb.
- neck, Men. .
- arm-pit, Herb.
- baek; Amb. Par.
- 1111cral reg., Mgn.11. -
H~, nape, CaUl&. Peu-. Sulph.
- Uilla, Carb. a. Sod. chi.
- back, ArB. Zine.
· - itching, CaWit.
- moistening, Sod.chi.
Herpetic .,au, nape,.Hyoec.
- neck and baek; Sep.
Jflrring (Knarren), BOUnd in the collar
vertebne when moved, Coec. Nice.
Pule. Stann.
- sacr. reg., Sulph. .
Jerkintf Jl· nape, Aeth. Cinch. Tar.
-neck, Tar.
- baek, Cinch. Hydr. Sulpb. rub.
- llftCr. reg., Cinch.
l71CUrwolion, vertebral ofthe neck, Calc.c.
--ofthe back, Calc. c. Lye. Plumlt.
PuU. 8il. &dph.
ltehing, axilla, Carb.v. Phoe.
- back, OaWit. Sen.
- oe COCC)'Jis, Bov.
A. from lijling wrong, back, Mur, ac.
Oleand. Val.
- 1801'. reg., 8ttlp_h.
Li»er4JIOU, na~ Lye.
Like a'lump in the back, seas., Arn.
To lie clovm, nece811ity, from pain in the
IIBCr. reg., Sil.
- - from Jlliin in the back, Ar•.
Moimau., aXilla, Carb. a. Carb. v.
.Motion, impeding pain, beck, Petr.
- IIBCr. reg., CaWit. Phoe.
Mtuelu, twitching, neck, Ang.
- back, Sot m.
Noeltmaflllo back, Calc.c. Carb.&Cham.
DQ.Ic. Fm. HelL H7dr. eulpb. rub.
Digitized by Coogle
·-...,
32. Nape, back, saor~ regigQ, &c. 581
Lye. Mgn, c. Mgn. s. Po~. nitP. ~od.
chi.
Nocturnal ~ sacr. reg., Amm.m. Ang.
Cha,.m. Mgn. c, Mgn. e. ~u~v. Pot.
n\tr. s~. s. $laph..
Nv.,.Pn,ess, !$ens. of, nape alld 011 cpccygis,
Plat.
- !Iller. reg., Spong.
Opisthotonous, Ang. Bell. 0pn(4. Cham.
Cic...{g"n. !pee. Op.Stann. Strqm. T~
J>aiTf, in gen., nape, AmJ:Q. c. GrgplJ.
- n.ook, B~ll. Hell.
- sbouldet-blades, Bell. Graph.
- back, Ant. tart. Ars. Assa. Aur. Bov.
Calc.c. Canst, Hyosc. Led. Lye. Nitr.
ac. Petr. Phos. Pot. nitr. PulJJ, Bhod.
Sep. ~nc,
- - one-sided, Guaj.
- lumbar region, Assa. C!llc. c. Con.
Cyc. Dulc. Hyosc. Led. P~ls. Sil.
Sod. chi. Stront. Val.
- sacr. reg., Bar. c. Bry. Calc. e. Caust.
Cham. Con. Graph. Hydr. Lye. Mez.
Nitr. ae. Petr. Phps. Pot. c. Pot. nitr.
Puls. Rhod. Sep. Sil. Staph. Sulph.
Tong. Tox. Zinc.
- os coccygis, when \ouched, Carb. a.
- - after micturition, Graph.
Palsy, of the neck, Ly~J. '
-back, Sil.
- sacr. reg., Sod. chl.
Perspiration, nape, Cinch.
-neck, Clem. Euph.
- - at night, Mang.
- axilla, Bov. Bry. Pot.c. Seill. Sel. Sep.
Sod. chi. Sulph. Thuy.
- - fetid, Calc. s. Phps. Sulpb.
- - with the smell ofonions, Bov.
- back, Cinch. Lye. ~p.
- - at night, Lye.
- - from a small exercise, Cinch.
Like a plug, in the back, sens., Lach.
Pressing p. in the 68cr. reg., Carb. a.
Pressing outwar(ls, in the sacr. region,
Cann.
Pressure (Driic,ken) in the nape, Amh.
Bar. c. Cupr. Laur. 01. Samb. Sass.
Sod, chi. Staph. Tar.
- neck, Calc. c. Cyo. Ferr. Guaj. Tar.
- shoulder-blades, Anajl. Calc, c. Cor.
Sen.
- back, Amb, Anal!, Aur. BerQ. Cl!.el.
Con. Cyc. Dulc. E~phr. .il{ur.ac. Pot.
nitr. Sabin. Samb. Sass. Sj3n. ~p.
Sod. chi. Tar. Thuy. Verat.
- sacr. reg., Caust. MeJJ. Sabin. ~amb.
Tar. Yerat.
- os coccygis, Qqnn.
Prickling, back~ llan. sc;.
Pulsation, llJl(lk, Qp.
- Pack, 8pr.c. Th!IY·
- sacr. reg., Sod. ch,l.
~4/fing p. s;tcr. reg., l_gq.
Rafping p, nape, Cye. G~ph.
- bl\ck, Graph. .
Reflspots, Jieek, Bey. Cooe. J~. aep.
Rending1 ~aP.e, Aeth. C{lrb. ~ Oinch.
Kram. Sulph. Zinc.
-neck, Am~ m. l}erb, Cqrb, v. M~.
Sod. S. ZiJIG.
- shoulder- blade~$, ~nao. A~@'· />.r&.
Berb. Cau11~. Cine,.. Ferr. Gwu.Phos.
Plumb. Rhod. Sil. 'fo.J!:.
- back, Anac. Arl[!. Arteq~. Aur. Cantk.
Caps. Carb. "!· Ohel. Oinch. Oooc.
Colc}t. f.,ed. Mgn. m. Mgn. s. Mang.
Nux v. Plumb. Rhod. Sabil\. Sep. Sil.
Sod,. s. ~ulph.
- - one-sid!ld, Guaj,
- sacr. reg., Ci7W/j.. 4ld. Plumb. Sep.
Stram. Sulph.
Restlessness in nape and neck, Thuy.
Jl,heumatic p., nape, Aeon. Amb. Ant. s.
Bry. Hydr. Puis. Rhod. Staph. Sulph.
Tox. Verat.
-neck, Bry. Cyc. Hydr. Rhod. Scill.
Tox.
- shoulder- blades, Ferr. magn. Ran. b.
Rhod. Tox. Val.
- back, Amb. Ant. tart. Cham. Cyc.
Mar. Ran. b. Rhod. Sulph. Zinc.
- sacr. re~., Sulph.
.(lising liP Impeding p., bp.ck a}1d sacral
reg., Phos. Sil.
Scabs (Schorfe) axilla, Sod. chi.
As if sc,rewed together, p. sacral region,
Aeth.
Senselessness, jlack, Sec.
Shingles, Hydr.
Shuddering, in the back, Bell. Bov. Senn.
Zinc.
Sore pain, nape, Cyo.
-neck, Cic.
- collar vertebrre, Cq11.
- back, Cast. Sulph. ac.
- sacral rjlgipn, Cast. CQlch. Soo. c.
Sulph.I\C.
Spasms, neck, Asar. Spoqg.
- - after driqking, Amm. c.
- back, ,Jqd.
- - bending forwards, Canth. Ipec.
- - - backwards, Ang. llell. Canth.
Chqm. Cic. Ign. Ipec. Op.
Stann. Stram. Tox.
Spasmorlic p., nap_e, Ant. f!. So(l. G.
- n.eck, An~. s. fhofl. ac.
- back, Con. Sod. s.
- sacr. reg., Mgn. m. ~il.
Standing impe<l~ by paitJ iiJ. the SIICral
region, P~tf.
Steatoma, nape, Bar. c.
~tijfnesf, nape, 4mm. m. An!lc.. Ang.
Bar.c. Bell. Berb. Bry. Calc.c. Cawph.
Ca~th, p,_ps. Oa!U!t. <;pf, Di~. Droe..
32. Nape, back, sacral region, kc.
..~.<tr-~l::::g!a:~M::
ee. l'(ux v. Ot Phoe. Plat. Pot. c.
:IMotl &ill. Sec. SeL &,J. 8il. Sod.e.
8ocl.cbL ~. 8ttJph. Sulpla. Thuy.
. :JN. Verat. Zinc.
1111/fneb, nape; in the morning; Ang.
- - after wrong liftin«, Calc. c. Lye.
-'neck, Amm.m. &U. Bry. Croc. Dig.
Ferr. 1feU. Hydr. Mez. &ill. SeL
Spong. Tab. Z'mc. ·
- - on&flided, Lye.
- back, Ang. Cawt. Led. Ol. Petr.
. Pot. c. Puls. &p. Sit &llph. Sulph.
ac. Thuy.
- - one-eided, Guaj. Hydr. sulpb. rub.
- - in the morning, Ang. Sulph. ac.
- - after aitti~, Caust. Led.
- - after atoopmg, Bov.
- ·ucral region, Aeon. Amm. m. Bar.c.
· Bry. Petr. Puis. Rhm. Sil. 8ulph.
Thuy. Toz.
-: - in the morning, Thuy.
- - in the evening increMed, Bar.c.
- - after eitting, Amb.
&irtging,na)lf, Aeth. Bar.c. Bry.Carb.v.
Mgn.s. &u1. Stann. Tar. Zinc.
- neck, Calc. s. Carb. v. Hydr. Samb.
·8us.Tar.Zinc.
- shoulder--blades, Amm. m. Anac. Bry.
Cale.0. Calc.e. Campb. Cann. Cooc.
Coleh. Ferr. Ferr. magn. Guaj. Hyosc.
Men. Mnr. ac. Nitr. ac. Par. Pho1.
, Plumb. Pot. nitr. ·Puis. Samb. Saas.
.··M Stanft. Sulph. Verb. Zinc.
- baok, Aeon. Alum. Anac. Aesa. Bry.
Calc. c. ~. '· Carb. v. Cinch. Cyc.
Dulc. Ewon. Guaj. HPII. Hyosc. Lye.
Mgn.c. Mez. Nitr. ac. Oleand. PlllOn.
Pt~r. Pluuib. Puis. Sabin. Stu1. Sil.
Bpig. Staph. 8ulph. Tar. Tox. Verb.
- - one-aided, Gu~.
- aacr. reg., Amb. JJry. Calc.c. Carb.a.
Cocc. Hydr. Ign. Lye. Plumb. Pull.
Sod.c. SOd.chi. Sod.s. Sulph. Tar.
8tncma, Calc.c. Cauet. Jod. Pot.c. &d.c.
Sod. chi. Spong. (Carb. a.1 Lye.1)
- big, large, "Jod. Sod. chi. Spong.
- bard, Jod. Sod. c. Spong.
- itching and stinging, Spong.
- preaeing, eonetringing pain in, Jod.
Spong.
8ttHJlling, nape, BeU. Hydr. Puis. ·
- neck:,Are. &U. Cauet. Cic. Con.Croc.·
Hydr. Jod. Ly_c. Phoe. ·
- - on&flided, Lye. Puis. Saee. Sod.c.
- collar verteb1'118, Calc. c.
..-... doraal verteb1'1181 Calc. c. 8il.
Tabu, back, Tab.
~ impeded by pain in the back,
flnla.·· ... : . .· . . ·.
,._,.,.,alpe;Bar.c. pry.Camph. Caul.
•
Con. Dig. Kram. Mga.'· Moech. 01.
Par. Plili. Plumb. Pull. Rlwd. Sus.
· Spcmg. &llph. Tox. Zinc.
TeU1on, neck, Bar. e. Berb. Bry. Cic.
Coloc. Dig. Jod. Par. Phoe.ac. JlMfl.
Sod. s. Spcmg. Thuy. Tox. Viol od.
Zinc.
- shoulder· blades, Bar. Cic. Coleb.
Coloo. Sil. Zinc.
- ~k, Amm. c. Berb. Calc. s. Coloc.
Kr&m. Mar. Mez. Moech. Oleand. Ol.
PuU.Sus. Sod.c.Sod.chi. Sulpla.Tra.
- eacr. reg., Amm.c. Bar. c. Pufs. Sea. ·
8vlpla. Tar. .·
Tlaick growing, the neck, Con.Jod. PAN.
- when talking, Jod.
Throbbing, back, Bar.c. Cinch.
Throe-like ~n, eaor. reg., Croc. Pot. e.
Pot.jod. Puis.
- back,Sep. .
Tingling, back, Aeon. Anac. Am.Cauat.
Evon. Graph. Pho1. ac. Ran.ec. Sea.
Sec. Sod.c.
- - as from ants, Evon. Graph. Plwl.
ac. Ran.ec. Saee. Sod.c.
- eacr. reg., Ph01. tJC. Sue. Sod. bor.
Torpor ( Storren) in the nape, Calc. c.
Sod. chi.
7't.Dilting p., eacr. reg., Graph.
Ulcerou• pain, nape, Puis.
- neck, Puis. ·
-back, Cic.
- eacr. reg., Sod.e.
Ulcer1, nape, SiL
Veim, distention of, neck, Op. Thuy.
Walking impeded by pain m the lJeok
and eacr. reg., Phos. .
To walk about neceeeity, from pain in
the back, Mgn. e.
Weakne1s, cervical mueclee, Ant.- tan.
Am. Coco. Lye. Par. Pot. c. Staph.
Verat.
- nape, Aeon. Par. Plat. Pot. c. Sil. ·
Stann. Staph. Verat.
- back, Aman. Petr. SiL Zinc.
- eacr. reg., Hydr. Myr. Petr. Sep. 8il.
Zinc.
Wrenching pa?t, na~, Anum. Oslc. c.
Hydr. eulph. rub. Nice. ·
- neck, Hydr.eulph. rub.
- back, Aman. Calc. c. Rhod.
- eacr. reg., Aman. Calc.c. 01•.RbOd.
Yello10 ~t1, neck, Jod.
Zona (sbinglee), Hydr.
Condition~:
In the morning, pain nape, Th'Uy•
- back, Berb. Euph. Mgn. s. Thuy.
- sacral region, Apg. Calad. Pot. tdtr.
Sel. Sod.chl Staph. Thuy. ·
In the moming in bed, pain, Ang•.Eaph.
Mgn.s._
Pot. nitr.
o,gitized by Google
32. Nape, back, h. - 33. Upper extremities. 588
Ill the ~, pain beet, Led. Nux"'·
Tereb. ·
- aaer. reg., Led. Tereb.
At nigAt, aee "oootumal" abo'Ye.
After altlineejectio011, pain aaeral repo,
Tab.
When bending forward, pain beck, CheL
- ._ckwarda, pW1 nape, Coo.
- - t.ck, CbeL Plat.
- - aacr. reg., Coo. Plat.
Wbeo ~the **•·P. llltlr. reg.,Dig.
Wbeo lwetlllauag, p.back, Aeon. Amm.m.
81188. Spig. Sulph.
- aaer. reg., Carb. a. Salph.
From a cold, pain beck and I8Clal J't!!·•
Nitr.ac.
From cold air, pain in the nape, back
and aaeral region, Bar. c.
By coldneu ioer. pain, 8ebad. Tox.
When ewghing, pain back, Bry. Cooc.
Pot. nitr.
Wbeo ezerciftng, ~ neck, Ferr. HelL
Phoe. ac. Tbny. Tox.
- nape, Aeon. Amm.m. Camph. Cinch.
Droe. HelL Plumb. Sallll. Tox.
- t.ck, Cinch. Hydr.aulph. rub. Mao«·
Petr. Samb. &u1. Stram.
- acr. reg., Cinch. Saas.
From ezercile, pain iocr., Cham. Caaat.
FromfaUin$", pain aaer. reg., Pot. e.
In lging, pam, nape, Amao.
- &ack, Aman. Berb. Euph. P.ot. oitr.
Sil Tar.
- eacr. reg., Amao. Tar.
When lying on the back, p. back, Eaph.
Pot. nitr.
...... - on the aide, relieTed, Pot. nitr.
After maauallabor, pain back, Sulpb.
After mental affection, pain back, Bar.e.
With moi6t weather, pain nape and back,
Myr. Rhod.
Whenr~ the .....pain nape.Beno.
When railing arm8,pain neck and t.ck,
Graph.
Wben at re1t, pain back, Dulc. Man«·
Pot.c. Pot.nttr. Samb. 8pig.
- eacr. reg., Alum. B~. Staph. Tp. _
When riding in a Tehicle, pain beet.
Calc.c. Myr.
When riling from Bitting, p. back, 1M.
- - aaer., Staph. Sulpb.
- from stooping, pain nape, Nice.
- - back, Verat.
- - aacr., Lye, Sallll. Verat.
In a room, pam nape, relie'Yed in open
air, Paor. ·
When lilting dotDn, pain back and 88CI'.,
Zinc. ·
In litling, pain back, Aman. Ant. tart.
Berb. &bad. Sil. Tereb. Thuy. Tox.
- aaeral region, Amao. Ant.tart. Bar.c.
Cauat. Men. OL Phell. Sabad. Sod.
bor. Sod. c. Sod. e.
After lilting, pain back, Led.
- Acral re~ion, Phol.
When mee.ztng, p. neck and nape, Am.
By 111mtling p. iocr., Aman.
When 1tooping, pain nape, Par.
- back, Coo; P&r. Pot.nitr. Tox. Vera&.
- sacral region, Men. 01. Saas. Sod. bot.
Verat.
When touclaed, p. neck, Puts. Sallll.
- nape, Puis.
- back, incr., Ari.
- aaer., Amm. m. Colcla. Sit. Tong.Tox.
When turning fl!Wld in bed. pain back,
Calc. e.
-sacral region, Nu:n. Staph.
When fDillkin,, pain back, Amao. Cooc.
- Acral regwo, Sulph. Zinc.
By tDarmth external, p. rei. nape, Tox.
- back, Hydr.aulph.rub.
33. Upper extremities.
(Compare this Section in all ita articles with Sec. 1.)
Artlritic complaintl, Btv. Calc.1. Hydr. Aa if beaten, shoulder, .Aeoo. Caon.
!A.Jc. Petr. RhiHL Sabin. &n. Spig. Coloe. Sod. chl Verat.
Tox. - upper-arm, Calc. •· Coc:c. Ni&r.ac.
- fore-arm, Hydr. - fore-arm, Oroc. Rut.
- band and wrist, BelL Calc. I. Cooc. - hands, Arn. Rat. Sod.chL
Lye. Babin. - wrist, Rut. Dro..
- finger and finger-joints, Ant. I. Bry. BloatedJ&el6, hands, Cham.
Calc. 1. Carb. a. Clem. Lgc. Petr. - fingera, when the arll18 haag dowa,
Rhod. Saaa. Se~. Spig. Tox. • . .Amm. c. Phoe.
Artlritic node1, wnat, OGle. c. Led. Rhod. Blood, agitation of, arms, Nux'Y. _
- finger-joints, ~n.Calc.c. Dig.Graph. - 111 if•topped, sena., anna, Rlwd.
Led. Lye. Rhod. 8taph. - - - ·fingers, Croo.
AriMilic Miflfte••, fioger-joiota, Carb. G. Blw rpot1, like auggilated, Core-up.
Graph.· £yo. Sulph. ac.
Aa if6eaten, p., arms, Aeon. Aug. Ant. Bluene11 of the ltandA, Amm.c. Bar. c.
Caon. Oroe. Sod. chL l'eral. - after wuhiog with cold water,Amm.
- arm-joint, Drol. carb.
Digitized by Coogle
I
~
I
33. Upper 6JltrQJJ\itiet..
t lJorUtg sens., a.r~-joint, R\lQd.
' - brachi&l bone, Mang.
• - fore-arm, Ran. sc.
- wris.t, Hel(.
- carpal bones, Ran. sc. Sod.c,
- n!Jgers, Ran. sc.
- finger-joints, HeU.
Brown spots, elbow, Sep.
- wrist.. Petr.
.:._ volar part of the hand, Sod. e.
1Jrui$jng pain arm, Arn. Dulc. OleancL
Plat. Rut. .
- shoulder, <Ac.
- upper-arm, Cyc.
- elbow-joint, Rut.
- fore-arm, Oic. Oleand.
- hands and fingers, Oleand.
Bv.rn.mg, arms, Alum. Berb. Dry. Phew.
Plat. Puis.
- brachial bones, Tox.
- shoulder, Carb. v. Tab. Tox.
- upper-arm, Aman. Sulph.
- elbow, Alum.
- fore-arm, Aman. Sulph.
- hand, Bry. Laur. Plt.os. Plat. &c. 8ep.
Sod. s. Stann. ToA.
- wrist, Sod.c.
- palm of the hand, Lye. P etr. Phoe.
~ep. Stann.
- fingers, Alum. Aman. Croc. Moech.
Mur. ac. Oleand. Plat. Pot. c. 8il.
Sod. c.
C-alli ( Schwielen ), horn-like, bande,
Gra:ph.
Qhilblams, see "of freezing, dieorden".
ChiUiness, arms, Bell. lgn.
- fingers, Men.
Clinched thumbs, Aeth. BeH. a....
Cocc. Hyosc. Ign. Stann. Stram. VioL
uic.
Clucking sens., upper-arm, PMroe.
- elbow, Rhm.
Coldne11, arms, Bell. Cic. Dulc. lpec.
Led. 0,. Plvf1W. Pot. c. Sec. Sep.
Thuy. ~erat.
.,.,.. ,_nda, Aeon. Amb. Ant.W1. Bar.e.
Bell. Cocc. Dia. Ipec. Mez.·Nitt. ee.
Nux v. Petr. Phoe. Pot.. c. Pot. aitr.
Ran. b. Scill. Sod. e. Sod.chl Thuy.
- - in the ev.eniDg in bed. Carb.a.
- - at night, Phoe. Thuy.
- - alteml\t.ely with h~mt, Coec. Par.
- ~~ Ang. Ant. tart. Clull. Mo.cb.
Par. Sulph. Tar. Thuy. .
Contractioa, uppel'~arJD.I!, S&run. Sulph.
Convu~Aetu, arms, Bell. Dry. Cam~
Canst. Cham. Oooe. lgo. .lol.
.~'lllllb. e&bed. w. (coJQp. ~wiw
JOg.)
- ....... &U. Jf)l. ~
...... aap,.. lp. .loci. &.Jlh.
Cr.cb, in &he skin, eee Rbagad4lf.
Orackling in the nr~-jqints, Ant. tart.
Hydr. Thuy.
- when leanmg up the 1\rms, TbJ.\y.
Cramping pain, back of tpe haf\ds, Brue.
Crooked arms, Lye. Sec.
-hands, Artem. Carb. v. Mgn.s. Sol.
nig,
- finge'rf!, A111b. Ant. tart. Arg. Artem.
Cafe. c. Carb. v. Ca~fi!t. (Jjncb. Cooo.
Coif. Colch. Cyc. Graph. Hydr. Lye.
Mgn. s. Men. Nu,x '¥. Pho11. Plat. Pot.
jod. Sabad. Sabin. ee<t, Sod. c. Spig.
Stann. Tox.
- - when gaping, Nuxv,
Outting pain, arms, Anac.
- elbow, wristandfinger-joint.s,!>hoe.ac.
·- fore-arm and fingers, Mur. ac.
- hands, Mur. ac. Sod, c.
Deadness (Absterben), a)'ms, Alnm. c.
Thuy.
- hands, Calc. c. Con. Lye. Thuy. Zinc.
- ~ers, Amm. c. Amm. m. Ant. tl\rt.
Calc. c. Calc. s. Caust. Ohel. Cic. Lye.
Mur. ac. Nitr. ac. Par. :Pltos. Phps.nc.
Sec. Sulph. Thuy. Verat.
- - one-sided, Phos. ac.
- in the woroiog, Aoun. c:,
- M night, Amm. e. Mur. ae.
- in cold air, Nilr, ac.
- whentakinghl))dofiiOII\et.hing,A.mnt.
earb. Calc. c.
- in warm temperature, Cl\lc, '·
Decurtalionofthe &eodoDS,~Cll!tul.
DelqtMlfJUJltora,oftheouticle,arm....U.aa.
- llanda, Alum. Amm.c. Amm,.m. Bar.
carb. Ferr. Laur. Sulpb.
- fingers, Aman. &r.c. 8ulph.
- - abouttheaail8,Hydr.Jamb.~
~J (Lihmigkei&), anna, AIQtB.
Amm. m. Ang. Artem. Bell. 04lc:. c.
Cinch. Colch. ~· Dig. Dulc. Ferr.
..{gn. Men. Mez. Par. Plat. Sep. Sil.
&4.chl. Stem~&. Sul~.ac. TGb. Verat.
Zinc.. (_comp. weakiiess.)
- arm-JOIDt. new.
- ahoulder,A.wb. Euph. &fur. !tO. Nu~v.
Puis. Sep. Stano. Staph. Val. V8Jilt.
- upper-arm, Ferr. ~gn.
- elbow-joint, Arub. A.Q~b. VeJ.
- fore-arm, Aeon. Amb. · •&'¥.Sen.
Step..Stront.
-. hand, Aeon. Apab, Ml· Ci~Jeh. Hy.dr.
Men. Saaph. &root. Tllb.
- wrist, Aer. Biam. &v. Carb. ,., OJt.
H)'dr. Pot. o.
- fingers, Atw. Aur. CJrb. •· 04AcA.
Oyc. l)ig. Jiivon. Me~a. ~pb.
- fioger-joint, Aur. Par. Verb.
.llWilc•ioa (hlatioa), w~. -'-'" r.
Rut.
Doullliag the fiat, Hy-. S&J!UR.
Digitized by Coogle
33. Upper extremities.
DrotDir&g pain, arms, Arg. Artem. Bell.
Berb. Bry. Calc. c. Cauat. Clem. Coloo.
Cyc. Ferr. Hydr. Hydr. sulph. rub.
Ind. Lam. Lye. Mgn. c. Mang. Men.
Mez. Nitr. ac. Nu.:r v. Oleand. Ol. Par.
Petr. Phoe. ac. Pu.t. Plumb. Pot. c.
Pot. nitr.·PuiB. R.lwtl. Sec. Sep. Sil.
Staph. Sulpb. Tab. Thuy. Zinc.
- arm-joint, Clem. Mar. Pot. e. Rhod.
8ulpla.
- brachial bone&, Mar. Rhod. Tereb.
Tbuy. Val.
- shoulder, Amb. Mang. Pot. c. Sep.
Sod. c. Staph. Sulpla. Zinc.
- upper-arm, Ar& Ferr. magn. MOBCh.
.Mur.ac. Oleand.Plumb. &apla. Tereb.
Val.
- elbow-joint, Amb. Mur. ac. Phoe. ac.
Sod. c. Sulph. Viol. od. Zinc. ·
- fore-arm, Amb. Ang. Ant. a. Carb.w.
Croc. Cyc. Ferr. magn. MOBCb. Nitr.
ac. Rlaod. Rut. Samb. Sen. Sod. c.
Spong. Staph. Tar.
- hands, Amb. Aug. Arg. Camt. Clem.
Eupb. Ferr. magn. Mgn. c. Mang.
Men. Nitr.ac. Pot. c. Ol. RAotl. Rut.
Sil. Sod. c. Staph. Sulph. Viol od.
ZiDc.
- wriBt, Anac. ArB. A•ar. Bov. Carb•..-.
Cauat. Cyc. Ferr. magn. Mar. Moach.
Phos. ac. Pot. c. Spong. Sulpb. Tar.
Zinc.
- carpal bones,Anac. Mar. Sabin. Samb.
Spig. .
- fi.ngel'B, Amb. Aug. Ant.s. A•ar.
Carb. v. Coloo. Lam. Mang. Mar.
Oleand. Ol. Petr. Phos. ac. Pot. c.
Pula. Rut. Sil. Sol nig. Staph. Suiph.
Zinc.
- finger-joints, Anac. Ant. s. Cauat.
Mar. Phoe. ac. Pot. c. Sep. Sulph.
Dry akin of the hands, Anac. Bar.c. Bell.
Ferr. magn. Calc. s. Lye. Phoe. ac.
Sabad. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Sulph. Thuy.
Zinc.
- finger, Anac. Ph01. ac. Pula.
- - at night, Puis.
Emaciation, hands, Gl'Bpb. Sel.
Enlargement, sens. of, arms and hands,
at night, Ep. Pot. nitr.
Er-uption, arms, Aman. Ant.s. Ant. tart.
Cauat. Phos.ac. Tox. Val.
- upper-arms, Ant. tart. Led. Sep.
- elbOw, Berb. Sulph.
- fore-arms, Bry. Sel. Spong.
- wrist, Ant. tart. Calc. s. .I..ed. Tox.
- hands, Amm. m. Calc. s. Carb. v.
Hydr. Lsch. Mur. ac. Sel Sep. Sulph.
ac. Tar. Tox.
- fingers, Graph. Lsch. Mur. ac. Ran. b.
Sus. Sep. Sil. Sod. c. Spig. Tab. Tar.
- finpr-jomts, Cro.
Eruption, between the finger&, PuiB.
Sulph.ac.
- between the thumb and fore-finger,
Bruc.
- burnin~, &d. c. Spig. fJ.'ox.
- like chickeb-pox, Led.
- cluetery, Tox.
- desquamating, Aman.
- gmnulated ( feinkiirnig, grieselig),
Calc. •· Carb. v. G1'8ph.
- itching, Ant. 1. Ant. tart. Carb. v.
CauaL Lach. Led. Sep.Spig. Tab.Tox.
- itch-like, scabious, Lacli. Sel. &p.
- miliary, Ant. tart. Bry. Hydr. Lecf.Sel
- nettle-rub, &d. c. (Sod.&)
- pimples, Aman. Ant. tart. Berb. PhOCJ.
llC. Spig. Tab. Tar. Val.
- pustules, Ara. Sec. Sep. Tox. ,
- - black, Ar1. Sec.
- red, Ant. a. Cyc~
- acabious, see itch-like.
- stinging, Puis.
- veBiculous, Amm. m. Ant. a. Bruc.
Cyc. Pul& Ran.b. Sep. &d. c. Spoog.
Tox.
- white, Aman.
Erylipelu, Petr. Toz.
- upper-arms, Bell.
- fore-arms, Ant.& Hydr. Lye.
- hands, Calc.s. Graph. Tox.
- fingers, Tox.
E~tolil, Dole. Mez. Sil. Sulpb. To.r.
To eztend (dehnen) the arms, inelin.,
Amm. c. Bell Sabad. Tab. Verb.
Offree~in$", disorders, (boils, bladderB,
chilblams,) Aman. Carb. a. Croc. Lye.
Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Op. Pt>tr. Ph08. Puk
Stann. Staph. Sulph. Suiph. ac.
Fretting sens. on the arms, Lye. Plat.
- hands, Bar. c. Plat.
- fingers, Plat.
Fulnu1, sens. of, arms, Verat.
- handa,Caust. Sod.s.
- - when taking hold of something,
CaUBL_
Furuncle•, arms, Sil.
- upper-arms, Zinc.
- fore-arms, Calc. c. Petr.
- fingers, Calc. c.
Galled between the fingers, Gl'Bph.
Ganglion, back of the hapd, Amm. c.
Pb01. ac. Plumb. Sil.
Gangrene of the fingers, Sec.
Gnawing p., hands and fin.gers, Ran. ac.
- under the nails, Alum.
Gout, see arthritic complaints.
Grarping, involuntarily, Sulph.
Grubbing pain, arms, Croo. Ep. Man~.
Thuy. Tox.
Hang-JUJiU, &d. clal. Stann. Sulpb. Tox.
Hartl skin of the hands, Amm. c. Sulph.
HUll in the bancbl, Carb. v. CaM. Cocc.
o,gitized by Coogle
.1.1. Upper extremities.
Ferr. Led. Lye. Nuxv. Pl,los. Rhm.
Rhod. Stann. Staph.
Heat in the hands, alternating with cold-
ness, Coco.
- - sudden, when stretching out the
arm, Ferr. magn. •
- - in the evenin&", Led.
- - at night, Stapll.
- fingers, Mgn. c. Par.
Heaviness, arms, Aeon. Alum. Amal. m.
Ang. Ant. tart. Berb. Bell. Cic. Fem.
Mar. Mur. ac. Par. Plat. Pul . Rhod.
Sil. Spig. Stann. Sulph. ac.
- - when at rest, Rhod.
- shoulder, Pula. Thuy.
- upper-arms, ,Mar.
- elbow-Joint, Samb.
- fore-arms, Anac. Croc. Mar. Mur.ae.
Spong.
- hands, Bry. Pot. nitr. Puis.
- - at night, Pot. nitr.
- fingers, Par.
Herpes, arms, Bov. Con. Graph. Hyb.
Mang. Phos. Sil Sod. chi.
- elbow, Cupr.
- fore-arms, Alum. Con. Hydr. lllaatJ.
- wrist, Hydr.
- hand, Bov. Dulc. Ran. b. a &d.e.
- finger, Caust. Ran. b.
- between the fingers, Amb. Graph.
Nitr.ac.
- burning, Con. Hydr.
- crusty, Con.
- rlry, Verat.
- furfuraceous, Phos.
- itching, Caust. Mang.
- moistening, Bov. Con.
- scaly, Hydr.
Herpetic spots on the arms aud Jaande,
Sod. chi.
- elbows, Sep.
Horn-like calli, hands, Graph.
Jerb, shocks (Rucke, Schllige, Sta.e),
arm, Oic. Nux v. Op.
- upper-arms, Rut.
-elbow-joint, Sod. chi. Verat.
- hand, Sulph.ac. Val.
Jerking, painless, see twitching.
- pain, arms, Arn. Cinch. fud. Men.
Mez. PhlJs. ac. Pula. Ran. b. Rluo.
Sod. c.
- brachial bones, Cinch.
- shoulder, Mez. Puls. Tar.
-upper-anna, Tar. Tox. Val
- elbOw-joint, Tox.
- banda, Cinch. Mez. Sod.ebl.
- wns., Aoac. Tox.
- carpal bones, Anac. Ciocb.
- fiugelll!l, Amm. c. OiReA. Ilea. Mez.
Phoe.ae. Ran.10. Rhm. Sod.e. Staph.
- inpr.joinl8, Anae. Soli.o. Tox.
~ ten4onaoithe611fJCN,cauet.
I~ion, arm, Cupr. Pettt. Sep. f'o.T.
- fol'tHU'ID, Lyo.
- v.olar part ofthe haad, ..,..
- fillgel'll, Coo. Lye. Alga. c. lllang.
· Nitr. ac. Pot. c. PW.. s.d. cbL
Itchif18, arms, Cauat. Lye. Plat. Sel.
- baDde,Anac. Mur.aO:""t.lbwt.lt.Sel.
..... Jlngei'IJ, AIDIUL COn.Plat. Pllls.llan.b.
Se[ Sod. c.
l6aicklif18, easily the tug81'8,BelLCalc.a.
Nuxv.
~ (Mat&i8keit), um., .bao. A"K.
:Sry. Calc. c. Pboe. Sil 8ol. c• .W.chl.
- - in the morning in bed, Jod.
- •boulder aod elbow, Slld.o.
- hands, Phoe.
~.relaxatioo(S.:hlaG'wadeo), IU'1II8,
Plot.
~. ar~m, Lyo.
Loole~Wa, lena. o( •hoOidu, Cree.
MilicriG, aee eruption.
Motion, impeded by pain, arm, Mgn.c.
Sod.obl .
Mwclet, twitching,arm.,Ant.tal't. A.,..
Mar. Mez. Oleand. Sil. Tar.
- shoulder, Sflo~, ·
- upper-arm,Cocc. Hell. Nitr.ae. Spig.
- i)re-aPm, Spig.
- hands, AnL tart. hlt.r.
Natlt, affilction of:
- blueneaa, Cinch. Dig.
- - begiluling, CheL
- crippled, Grapl. Sep.
- growing too iilow, Ant. a•
- painful, Ant. a.
- peeling off, Hydr.
- tbiekneee, Graph.
- ulcerous, see Panaritia.
- white 11J10tted, Nitr. ac.
- yellow, Con.
- - under the D8illl paiR. Betb.
Noctvrnal pain, aee at nish&, amoas the
eonditioDB below.
Numbne11 (Einschlafen), al'IDI, Amb.
Bar. e. Berb. CAam. OJ<oc.. lluphr.
Graph. Led. J¥. Mgn. m. Nu:n.
Petr. Pboa. Pot.c. 8ep. 8il. Spif.
Sulph. Tbuy. Vent.
- banda, Amb. Carb. ca. ~o. Croc.
Eu.Pbr. Lam. Lye. Nuv, Mlolt. Iii.
Sp1g• .
- fingers, Aeon. Amm.c. Bar.e. flal~. c.
Carb. a. Di~ ~· Lam. Lyo..Nit•. ac.
Par. Pole. FuJ& Sa-. SoLoW. Stram.
Verat. Zlno.
- in t~ JDOming, Pul& ZiRe.
- - in bed, Mgn. m• .
- at night, Amb. Oro6. ,..,a Mia" Pule.
Sil ~
- when carrying 801Qethiog~ AQlb.
Digitized by Coogle
33. Uppe'r ellltlWUtia.
Numbnus, in cold temperature, Pot.c.
- when lain upon, Amb. Bar. c. sa.
- when leaning upon the part, Sil.
- after motion or exercise, Pot. o.
- when taking hold ofany thing, Cham.
Outward8 pressure, shoulder-joint, Cor.
Pain, simple, arm, Bar. c. Calc. c.
- arm-jomt, Amm. c. lgn. Plumb.
- brachial bones, Ep. Ign. Lye.
- wrist, Amm. c. Lach. Plumb.
Pain in the bones in gen., Assa. Phos. ac.
Staph.
Panantia, Paronychia, Alum. Bar. c.
Calc. s. Caust. Con. Hydr. Jod. Plilil.
Sep. Sil. Sod. chi. Sulph.
Paralysis, arms, Bell. Calc. c. Cbel. Cocc.
Dulc. Lye. NU3: v. Op. Plumb. Sec.
Sil. Stann. Verat.
- upper-arm, Aman. Ohel.
- fore-arm, Sil.
-hand, Aman. Cann. Cupr. Plumb.
Pot. c. Sil. Zinc.
- fingers, Calc.c. Phos.
Parched skin, see Dry.
Peeling off, see Desquamation.
Perspiration, hands, Calc. c. Nuxv. Petr.
Sass. Sod. chl. Sulph. Tab. Thuy.
- - clammy, Anac. •
--cold, Artem. lpec. Nuxv. Rhm.
Tab.
- - warm, Ign.
- - at night, Coloc.
- palm of the hands, Aeon. Anao. Con.
Dulc. Hydr. Led. Rhm.
- between the fingers, Sulpb.
Phl.reMtlic bladden (Fra!IBbluen), Oil
the bands and fin~rs,Graph. Mgn. c.
Nitr. ac. Pot. c. Sll.
- ofa pungent pldn, Mgn.e.
~-.see weaJuiesB.
Pre1ring pain, arms, Anae. Arg. BeD.
Berb. Ctern. Coloc. ·C,o. Dulc. Led.
- Pals. 8au. ,
~ brachial bones, Anac. Coloc. PoL-c.
Staph. •
..... 'liboUlder, Anac. &II. Bry. 0\l'b. a.
C.ust. -Pbee. PoL'c. Pols. Sod. c.
S&aph. SulJih.
- l8boulder --Join&, Cor. 'lJIJd. ·Nitr. ac.
&ann.
..... ·1JPper-arm, Aut. 'Cemph. Milt. ae.
P/itJe;ac. Sabin. 8&«8. 8timn. ·811JpA.
..... ·~. Ounl)h. Ia.
-fore-arm, Alit. Berb. Bl8m. Oeioph.
Ferr. ~ Olecnltl. PM.. Ire. -l»Iat.
R11L &biB. &n. &apb. Verb.
- bands, Arg. Clem. Plw6. -. 'Rut.
·8tann.Stapll. Verb.
..... ~. Arg. BeD. ·Betb. Mlflt. -&....
Stalltt. ViOL od.
-- ~ bon4le,·AJ!. Beii.•O.pl'.~
Plat. Pule.
~ fair!, ·bfft, ~· CMnd.
Pb •· -Plat. Rut. BdUL 8canu.
Staph. Vet'b.
..... I!JJV-joinca, Arg. &.. 8tann.
Pricldffng, arme, bande, 4ngen, Pia&.
Pul.a0011, tdloulder aucl uppeNU'Ib,Tar.
..... fin~rs, Mar. '
To f'tnM &he arms, inahility A-om pain,
um, Sod.e. Sod.chl.
- shoulder, Ferr. Sod. cbl.
_._upper-arm, Feft'. Nitr.ae.
Red tpou, arms, Sabad. Sulph. Te-x.
- shoulder, Tab.
- fore-arm, Euph. Tbny.
~ hands, Cor. Sabad. Sod.o. SWm.Tab.
- -Angers, Cor. Plumb.
- buming, Sulph. T&b.
- itching, when touched, I'Aaph.
- marbled, Tbuy.
- swollen, Plumb.
- at\er Wftllhing, Sutplt.
llsdnen, hands, Bar. c. ·Phos. -&d.'8.
- fingers, Aman. Lye.
- points and bRck of the fingen, Berb.
Re'"ation, ofthe b\'aobiallnuecles,when
laughing, Carb. v. ·
&riding, atms, Attab. ·Aft!IM.m. AllUart.
Arg. Are. Arlem. ·Bell. Calc.c. Omt#&.
Catut. Cinch. Coec. ·CWela. ~. Hydr.
'IIJUiph. rob. lgn. Ind. Leil. ~gn. m.
Mgn.e. 'Mflng. !Wen. Ol. Par. PbeU.
:Ptioe. PAot.cc. Pot. nitr. PuU. Ran.
&u. Sil. &xl. c. 8od.11. Strent. Salph.
ThMf· ztnc.
- arm-Joints, Amm. c. Mtw. POLe. Pot.
nitr. StronL Sulftlt.
- brachial bones, ataclt. Hell ...
Rhod. Rut. Sod.'·
-shoulder, Alua .<\M6. Atnm.M. Bell.
B!'Y·Carb.v. Clllt. E1101t. Fen-. Gtttph.
Hydr. Kram. Laur. Lyo. ~ ~!arb.
Mgn. m. Mgn. 11. Mang. Phell. Phoe.
Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Puil. Stann. &api}.
&lpA. Tll"f. To~. Verb. Zinc. '
-upper-arm, Ars. Herb. Dry. Campb•
CUt. Ferr. Hytlr. Kram. wur. Jllft~r.
1le.Oieand.Plumb. Rhm.SUin.SCann.
&aph. Val
-elbow-joint, Amb. Lye. :Jlut.~.
ltoL Verb. Zinc. •
- fbre-erm, Amb. Bimt. Calc.t. Crabph.
Oarb. v. Guaj. Ind. K'ram. •MUI'. ae.
Nilr-.t~e. Rbm.·RA111L Rut Sabin.•...
8od.-. Stapb. Tar. Verlt.
...._ hands, ·Amb. Arg. A'ftl. ltl'fent.·Qnut.
Cinch. &lela. ·Graph. Led. -Mgn. 11.
Mang. Men. ·M\tr. a&. :JWtt. tiC, 01.
Petr. Phos. RAod. Rut/&1. 8il.W...
Stann.-~ph.~ - ~.~~
._
- Wria&, Amm.c. Amm.IB.·-lAn.
Digitized by Coogle
33. Upper extremities.
Aor. BelL BU.. Carb.v. Kram. Mar. &Ire pain, shoulder, Cic. C..
Pot. e. Pot. nitr. Sabin. &u. Stann. - Core-arm, Oic.
Stroot. Sulph. Tar. Zinc. Spaam (Klamm, Krampf) (and diator-
Rending, carpal bones, Arg. Aur. Bell. tion) of the· arms, BeU. Dry. Lye.
Cinch. Cupr. Mar. Sabin. Sod.e. Spig. Men. Sec. Sil. Sulpb. (eomp. eon-
- fingers, Aman. Amb. Amm. m. Arg. vulsions and crooking.)
Aur. Carb.v. Cinch. Colck. Hell. Joel. -:- bauds,Amb. BeU. Cale.e.Cann.Coloe.
Lam. Led. Mgn. •· Maag. Mar. Men. Graph. Pmon. See. Stram. Sulpb. ae.
Mur. ae. Oleand. Ol. Pboe. ac. Plumb. ' - fingers, Amm. e. Arn. Are. Cole. e.
Pot. e. Puis. Rut. Sabin. Sil. Sod. s. Cann. Coee. Cotf. Dros. Ferr. Lye.
Stann. Staph. Stroot. Sulpb. Verb. Nux v. Phos. Pot. nitr. See. S&ann.
Zinc. Staph.
- - back ofthe fingers, Berb. - at night, Nuxv. Sulpb.
--points, Berb. -when takingboldofsomething,Amb.
- finger-joints, Amm.e. Arg. Aur. Berb. Dros.
])ig. Hell. Lye. Mar. Pot.e. Pot.nitr. Spamaodjcpain(Kiemmen),Arg.Artem.
Rbm. Samb. .sa.,. Stann. Stroot. Men. Ran. b. Suiph. ac.
Sulph. Tox. - upper-arm, Moscb. Oleand. Val.
- under the nail!l, Bism. - .elbow-joint, Kram. ·
.Rutlume••• arms, Ferr. · - fore-arm, Ang. Calc. e. Ferr. magn.
Rlulgade•, arms, Sil. Moseh. Mur. ae. Phol. ac. Plat. Rut.
-hands, Alum. Cole.1. Graph. Hydr. Verb.
Mgo. e. Petr. Sil. Sod e. Sod. ch.l. - bands, Ang. Arg. Artem. Calc. c.
8ulph. Tox. Zinc. Coloc. Eupb. Euphr. Ferr. mago.
- - Cleepandbleeding,Hydr.Petr.Saaa. Mang. Men. Pbos.ac.·Plat. Rut. Sil.
--in winter, Petr. Verb.
- fingers, Hydr. Petr. .8a61. - wrist, Anae. Aur. Bov.
- finger-joints, Mang. Phos. - carpal bones, Anae. Aur. Spig.
- between the fingers, Zinc. - fingel'8, Aman. Ang. Calc. c. Euplar.
- on the nails, Sod. elal. Kram. Men. Mur. Oleand. Phos. ae.
Rlaeumatic pain, A~. •· AN. tart. Bell. Plat. Rut. Sil. Verb.
Dry. Dulc. Hydr. Ign. Mez. Nux v. - finger-joints, Anae. Mgn. e. Pot. nitr.
Phos. Puis. Rhod. &ill. Sulph.Thuy. Spat•, see the different colours.
Tox. Val. Verat. Spraining,easilytbefingers,~ll.Cale.s.
Il.ouJ(la skin of the hands, Calc. s. Laur. Nux v.
~itr. ae. Phos. ae. Pot. c. Sttffnu•, arms, Canth. Caps. Cluun. Lye.
- fingers, Phos.ac. Men. Null: v. Sass. Sep. Sod. earb.
8cab1, elbow, &p. Tox. .
,-fore-arm, Alum. --at night, Nuxv.
-hand, Mur.ae. Sep. - - when taking hold of something,
- wrist, Amm. m. Cham.
- fingers, Mur. ae. - shoulder, in the morning, Staph.
- itching, Sep. - elbow-joint, Ang. Pot. c. Puis. Sep.
- moistening, Alum. - wrist, BeU. Lye. Pot. c. Puis. Babin.
8ctJrlet redness, fore-arm, Euph. Sep. Sod.s. Staph. SulpJI.
- bards, Bell. . - fingers, Carb. a. Cinch~ Dig. Graph.
&mele1me86 (Taubheit), .arms, Alum. Lye. Oleand. Petr. Pot.nitr. Puls.Sil.
Amb.Bell.Plat.Pot.nitr.Puli.Stront. Sod.ebl. Spong. Sulpb. Tox.
To~. - - when taking hold of something,
- shoulder, Pull. Dros.
- bands, Acon.Assa.Dry
.. Carb. a.Coce. Stinging, arms, Cocc. Dros. Dulc. Guaj.
Hyoec. Lam. Lye. Pot. nitr. Pull. Hydr. sulpb. rub. Ind. 01. Phos. Pnls.
Sod. ehl Stroot. Ran. b. Rbm. Sabin. Sa~•. 8ep. Sulpb.
- fiQgers, Anae. Calc. e. Carb. a. Caust. Tar. Thug. Viol. tric. Zinc.
Colcb. Con. Cupr. Dig. Ferr. Lam. - brachial bones, Dros.
Lye. Mur. ae. 01. Phos. Plat. Pot. e. - arm-joint, Dros. Pot. nitr. Sulpla.
See. Spong. Staph. Sulpb. Thug.
- ~ at night, Mur. ac. - shoulder, Bry. Ferr. Graph. Laur.
~·arms, Dry. . Led. Lye. Phos. Puis. Staph._Sulpb.
~ on the arms, BelL · Sulph.ac. Tab. Viol. tric. Zmc.
Blarivellidskinofthefiogers,Amb.Cupr. - upper-arm; Berb. Bry. Ferr. Laur.
Pboe. ac. &bin. Sa•.
•· Staph. Tox.
Digitized by Coogle
'
33. Upper extremities.
St~, elbow•joint, Bry. Lye. Pot.
rutr. Spig. Tab. Tar. Viol. tnc. Zinc.
- fore-arm, Anae. Ant. s. Caust. Guaj.
Ran.«:. &bad. Sabin. s.... S&aph.
Stram. Viol. trio.
- haade, M~. s. Mur. ae. 01. Phos.
Sod. ehl &d.'· Staph. Sulph. Verb.
Zinc.
- metaoarpU8, Herb.
- fingers, Amm.m. Bry. Carb. a. Mgn. s.
Nitr. ac. Par. Phos. ae. Ran. ec. Sabin.
Sod.ehl &d. •· Stann. Staph. Sulph.
Thuy. Verb. VioL trie. Zinc.
- finger-joints, Ferr.Dlllgll. HeU. Nitr.
ae. Peon. Phos. ae. &.1. Sep. Sod.
ehl. Svlph. Sulph. ae.
- under the nails, Sod. s.
&itelw, sudden, penetrating into the
bone, Berb.
Straining, 88 iftoo short, arms, Aeth.
Sep. . .
- - when bent, Aetb.
- shoulder, Herb. Bov.
- elbow-joint, Ca118t. Mang. &p.
'- - when stretched out, Caust.
- wrist, Carb. v. Ign.
- fingers, Aeth. Carb. a. Croe. 8ep.
Spong. . . .
Stretching, ~odie, arms, Cinch.
- out, impeded by pain, Tab.
Suppuration on the fore-arm, Lye.
- on the finger, Mang.
- on the nails, Jamb.
8weUing, arms, Alum. Ar~. Bar. e. BeU.
Bry. Dulc. Hydr. Lye. Mez. Sep.
Sulph. Toz. ·
- brachial bones, Aur. Bry. Dig, Dule.
Mez. SiL Sulpb. Tox.
- should~r, Aeon. Bry. Pot.e.
- upper-arm, Bry. 8ep. Sulpb.
- elbow-joint, Dry. ·
- for&oerm, Ant.1. Herb. Hgtlr. Sulph.
- hllllds, Aeon. BeU. Brg. Calc. earb.
Calc. •· Cocc. Cupr. Dig. Ferr. Hyoec.
!fo~ ~ez. Phos. See. Spong. Stann.
- wrist, Amm.e. &bin. See.
- fing~~lum. Are. Cale.s.Dig.Graph.
Hydr. c. Mgn.c. Mur.ae. Nitr.ae.
Oleand.,., n. ec. Spong. Sulpb. Tab.
Thug. ·1.oz.
- finger-jointa, Amm. e. Herb. Bry.
Calc. s. Cinch. Hydr. Lye. Nitr. ae.
Spong.
- burning, Mur.ae. Oleand. Sulpb.
- hard, Ars. Sulph.
- hot, Ant. a. Bry. Calc. a. Cocc. Hgtlr.
Mez. Tox.
- hydropieal,lym})ha&ie, soft, Herb. See.
- painful, Ant. a. Calc.s. Cinch. Pot. e.
Sep. Thuy.
8weUi1ig, painless, Lye. ·
- pale,·Bry. · . · . ,
- red, Alit. s. Bry. Cale. s. Hytlr; Lye.
Mgn. e. Sep. Spong. Thug. ·
- scarlet 1loloi'ed, Belt.
- shining; Bry. Sulpb. ·
- strsi.Ding, Sulpb.·
- in the evening, Stann. Tox. ·
- at night, Dig. Phos. Pot. nitr.
- after palsy, Sulph. · .
- sene. of, arms, Verat.
- shoulder, Pot.jod. ' · .
- hands, when entering into. a room.
Aetb.
Tearing, see Rending. ·
Tpderne11 .oftlle fingers to cold,·Aman.
- of the skin at the nails, Ant. a.
Tentlon6, twitching of, fingers; Jod.
Tenlion (Spannen), arms, Anae. Arg.
Cinch. Mang. Mez. Nux v. Pot. earb.
. &p. Tab. Tox.
- arm-joint, Mang. Pot. e. Sep.
- shoulder, Bry. Eupb. Pot.e. Pot.jod.
- upper-arm, IJry.
- elbOw-joint, Mur. ac. Pule. 8ep. Sulpb.
ae. Tab. -·
- fore..arm, Ant.s. Sod. c.
- hands, Arg. Cinch. Pot.e. Sod.e. ·
- wrist, Carb. v. Mang. Phos. Pot. c.
Puis. Verb.
- fingers, Aeth. Pot. e.
- finger-joints, Croe. Mgn.c. Nitr. ae.
. Phos. Pot. e. Pule..Sep. Spong.
Throbbing, arms, Berb. Sil. Thuy.
- shoulder, Tar. Thuy.
- upper-arm, Tar. .
- fuagers, Amm. m. Ferr. magn. Plat.
Sod. bor.
Tingling (Kriebeln), arms, Arn. Bell.
Cann. Caps. Mgn. c. 01. P1e0n. Pot.
nitr. Rhod. Sabad. See. Sulph.
-hands, Arn. Bar. c. Lam. Mur. ac.
Pot. nitr. Stram. Verat.
- fingers, Aeon. Amm. m. Calc;e. Colch.
Croe. Kram..Lam. Mgn. c. 01. Peon.
Rhod. Sec. Sil. Sod. chi. Spig. Sulph.
Tab. Thuy. Verat. .
Tired, 88 if, pain, arms, Verat.
Tophi (arthritre nodes, Gichtkno&en ),
wrist, Calc. e. Led. Rhod.
- finger-joint, Agn. e. Calc.'· Dig.
Graph. Led. Lye. Rhod. Staph.
TorJ,or-(Starrwerden), arms, Afltm. c.
. Amui. m. Petr. Plat. Pot. e. .
- - after exercise and in cold, Pot. c.
- haDds, Assa. Hyoec. .
- wrist, Puis. Sep. .
- fingers, AmiD. e. HeU. Petr. -
2Urpor, eena. of (Eretarrungsgef'uhl),
arms, Arg. Ca118t. Pet.r. Plat.
-hand, A-.
00
Digitized by Coogle
•
•
590 33. Upper extremities.
Tremor, 81'1111, Amb. Anae. Dry. Hyoac.
Joi.. Nitr. ac. ,Op. P/w$. Phoe. ae.
Sabad. 8il. Spig. Spong. Thuy. To:x.
Verat.
- hancls,Anum.Amm.c.ADM. AJit.t41rt.
Bell. Dism. Calc.c. CaWIL Cocc. Coft:
Colch. Jod. Laur. Led. Nitr. ac. Op.
Par. Pho6. Pot. c. Sabad. Samb. SaSS.
Sod. c. Sod. a. Spig. Stann. Stram.
8ulpi. Tab. Tbuy. To:x. Val. Ziae.
- fingers, Dry. Jod. To.s. .
- in the eTeoinA", Hy0111c.
- after a 8ID8ll e.xerUon, SiL Tox.
- alter JIIB8Is. Billm.
- when moving, Led.
- after moving, Hyoec-.
- wi&h. ilubtile WGI'k, Salph. .
- whe-. holding sny tbiD~ Coft: Phoe.
-when writing~ Bar.c. Pot.c. Samb.
Thlly. VaL Zinc.
Twitcling (ZuckeD), arms, Artem.
Bar. m. Bell. Dry. Cauat. Cie. Hyosc.
Ign. Lye. Mp. a. ()p. Pot. c. Rhm.
SciiL Sod. c. Thuy. V'erat.
- - in sleep at noon, Lye.
- - at niglit, Bu. m.
- shoulders, Lye. S~~
- han~.Bell.Cupr. Sod.c.&ana.
Sulph. .
- - m the morning, Cupr. .
- - when taking hold of something,
Sod.c. .
- fingers,Artem.Dry.Cham.Oic.HydF.
Ign. Lye. Phoe. Sod. c. Sulpb. To:x.
- - when moved, Dry.
Ulcer•, arm (burniug and lllllious), Tox.
- hands, Ars. Sep. SiL
- fingers, Carb.v. PIGI• .RGn.b. Sep.SiL
- finger-joints, Sep.
- at the nails (panaritia), Alum. Bar.c.
Calc. •· Caut. Coo. Hydr. Joel. Pols.
Sep. Sil. Sod. cbl. 8ulph.
Ulcerous pain, arm, shoulder, Thuy.
- fingers, Amm. m. Sea.
- nails, Sod. a.
Un~, hand, Sep.
- fin«ers, Calc. e. Graph. Plumb. SiL
SoCI.chL
·Veim, distended, hands, Amm.e. Am.
Bar. e. Calc.e. Cast. Chel Ind. La1U'.
Oleand. Phos. PuU. Rhw. ~
- after wuhing wil.k cold water,Amm.
earb.
Vibrcting pain aBd sens., Berb.
Wart•, arm, ·Ars. CG~cr. c. Caul&. Dule.
Nitr. ae. &p. 8il. Sod. e. Su!ph.
-hand, Berb. Clltt.c. Dwlc. Lye. Sod.
bor. Sod,c. Sod.cW. ·
- fingers, Bert.. Lyo. Petr. · ·
w--., &ml8, Aeon. Aman. Anec.
•
Calc. c. Cic. Qoeh. Lye. Nuxv. 01.
Par. Petr. Phos.ac. Plat. Plumb.PcK.
nitr. Rhod. See. Sep. Sod.cbL Sulph.
Tab. .
W~ elbow-joint, ADg. Sulph.
- fin.arms, Nitr. ac. Tox.
- hands, Ang. Am. Bow. Canth. Carb.".
Caust. Cinch. Cupr. Hell. Nitr. ae.
Plumb. Pot.c. Pot. nitr. Sabin. Sod. s.
Stano. Sulph. Tab. Tox. Zinc.
- fingers, Amb. Carb. •· Par. Pot. nitr.
SiL Tox.
-in the mol"Jliag, Nuxv. Sulph.
- - in bed, Pot.c.
- at night, Amb.
- when in rea, Aeon. Rhod.
- when taking hold ofsomething, ~
Carb.v. ,
- when writin~, Aeon. Aman. Sabin:
WrencAing (spraining) pain (Verrenk-
kunga-, Yen&auehuoga• Schmerz),
arms, Amb. Am. Bov. Ign. Oleand.
Tereb. Thuy.
- shoulder,Amb.Aaar. Mgo.c.Mur.ae.
Rut.Sabin.Sep.Sod.cblTereb.Thuy.
- elbow, Amb. Ferr.mago. PW.. .
- hand, Amb. Amm. c. Am. Bov. Bry.
Cale. c. Calc. a. Carb. a. Caua. Phoe.
Pot. nitr. Pula. Rhod. Rut.Sabin.Sen.
Sulpb. Verb. ·
- wrist., when bent, Ferr. magn.
- fingers, Graph. Phoe. .Pot. nitr. Puis.
Sod. chi. Suf~h.
Wrenching, dislocation, of the wrisl,
A~~B*L .
YelloulMA ofthe hands, Spig.
Yellow spots, arm, Petr.
- fingers, Ant. tart. Ceo. Sabad.
In the morning (in bed) pain, carpal
' bones, Sod.e.
In the evening, pain ann, Puis.
.... hand, Sod: c.
At •ight, pain arm, Amm. ~ Calc. c.
C&uet. Dulc. Jod•.Lyc. Mgn.c. Nuzv.
PbGB. Pot.'nitr.
- brachial bones, Arum. m. Lye.
- shoulder, Bell. Cast. Hgdr. Mgn. c.
POOr. Pot.nitr. .
- upper-erm, Ars. Caat. Hydr.
- elbow-jclint, Pot. ni&r.
- hands, Phos. Sel.
- wrist, Pot. nitr. SiL .
- fiO«ers, Mgn.•• Sod. bor.
- finger-joint, Pot. nitr.
In autumn, arm, pain, Toz.
In cold temperatm, pain BI1D, reliMed,
Thuy. .
:From coil air, pain ann, fan. BAod.
From ezerlion, pain arms,11aads, &p.
When haaging dowu, paiD 8l'ID81 Alum.
. Berb. Thu_y. .
- shoulder, Rut.
Digitized by Coogle
33. Upper extremities.- 34. Lower extremities. 591
When tMing 1toU of something, pain By rett, pain iner., RAod.
arms and lumds, Plat. From termng, pain carpal bones, Laeb.
- - wrist, .Bov. When 1tretching outcbe arm, pain arm,
Wbeo ~Gin fi1'0'I, pain arm, iner., Joel. Alum. ·
From moilt weather, pain ann, Rkod. - sudden beat, Ferr. IDB!D·
When JJtOIIel p.. arm, Cann. Chel. Staph. When touched, pain arm, Cinch;
- shoulder, Asar. BelL Cann. Hydr. - shoulder, Aeon.
Led. Mgn.e. Pule. · - upper-arm, Ago.
- upper-arm, Coec. Hyilr. - elbow, Amb.
- rore-arm, Croe. By touch, pain ioer., Aman. Herb. Cinch.
- band, Lam. Lam. .
- wrist, Bry, Calc. a. Pot. c. After vexation, pain shoulder, Coloe.
- fingers, Cale.s. Lam. Pot. e. After a tDalk, p. shoulder and elbow, Val.
By moving, p., incr., Herb. Led. Mgn.m. - finge!"'t Croe.
Nuxv. By tDalktng rei., Eupb.
- relieved, Thuy. By tDannth, pain iner., Thuy.
After pertpiralion, pain io the 81'1118 reL, - relieved, Hydr. sulpb. rub.
Thuy. · From tDarmth of the bed, pain ahoulder,
When rtritiftg the anna, pain, Oleand. Tox.
-shoulder, Led. Pula. Sulpb.ae. · -pain rel., Amm.e.
- uppeNli'ID, Bar.e. When working pain, bands, Alum.
Wheo at rut pain, arms, Dule. · From tDf"iting, pain hands, Aeon. Eupb.
- shoulder, Cooo. Eupb. Tox. Sulph. ae.
- upper-arm, Coee. - fingers, Aeon. Bry. Mur. ae.
34. ,Lower extremities. *')
(Every article to be compared with Section1.)
Abtee~• (Eite!!eschwulst), on the ])ut- As ifbeaten, legs (Unterscben~el), Ang.
tock, Sulp~ Caust. Croc: Hydr. Puis. Val.
- on the calfof the leg, Cinch. - feet, Arg. Am. Bry.
Artlaritic eompl, L ex., Amb. Arn. Led. Bloatedne11, I. ex., Thile.
Pull. R.lwil. Sabin. Toz. Blood, congestion to the feet io standing,
- hiP:S (coxalgia), Arg. Art. Aua. Aur. Graph.
BelL Bry. Calc. c. Cole. '· Canth. - as ifstagnating, sene., knees, PbeU.
Cham. Coloc. Dig. GraJ>h. Hydr. - - legs, Zinc.
Nw: v. Pull. Sep. Staph. Tox. Blood-specks, legs, Pbos.
- - with eommeneiog suppuration Bluene11, of the feet, Arn.
(throbbing), Calc. '· lJydr. Staph. Boring pain I. ex., Canth. Hydr. Ran. b.
- knees, Cioch. Con. Ran. sc.
-feet, Amb. Bry. Graph. Verat. -thighs, Ran. b.
- toes (Podagra ) , Amb. Am. Con. - ~nee- and foot-joint, Hell.
Graph. Led. &bin. 8td1Jia. Verat. - feet and toes, &n.tc.
As ifbandaged, p. L ex., Anac. .- heels, Puts.
- knees, Anac. Aur. Burning, pain, I. ex., in gen., Led. J.yc.
As ifbeaten (Zerschlagenheits-Sebmerz), . Pbos. Pot. c.
Ang. Ant. tart. Am. Herb. Bruc. - - bones, Eupb. ·
Carb. v. Cupr. Pbos. SiL Spig. Spoog. - hips, Bell. Carb. v. Hell. Tox. Val.
VaL Veral. -thighs, Bov. Eupb. Kram. Tox.
- - joints, Arg. - knees, Lye. Tab. Tar.
- - bones, Led. Puis. Rut. - lega, Aman. Anae. Lye. Tar.
- biJIS, Aeon. Amm. c. Phos. ao. Rut. - calfof the leg, Dig.
Sulph. · - shin, Pbos.ae.
- thighs, Aeon. Amm. c. AnA'. Cak. •· - feet, Amm. c. Are. Calc. e. Calc.a.
Camph. Caust. Coco. Guaj. Hydr. Coce.Dule.Grapb.Lyc.Phos.Plot.ac.
Led. Men. PM.. GC. Plllt. Puis. Spis'. 'Pot. c. Soill. &c. &p. Sil. Sod. chi.
Stapb. Tab. Viol. tric. . Stann. Zinc.
- knees, Ars. Campb. 1M. Pbos. Plat. - foot-joint, Eupb. Sod.c.
Staph. Verat.. · · -ridge of the tOot, .P.k
•) 'l'be .,ord "le1" i• thlo I!!"· alwayo •eaao the lower put, fro• the kaaeto doe ..u.(Uaterochon-
kel) l in the text h ia aoMetimea •••d for the whole lower extremity (Bein), hilt, ia order to make
a diotlactloa, for tho loiter the abbro•·iatioa "1. ex." lowor utro•ity, lo uoed Ia the teportol')'•
Digitized by Coogle
•
•
592 34. Lower ~tremities.
Burning, tarsal boDes, Rat.
- eolee, Amb. Aoac. Calc.e.Croe. Cupr.
Lye. Ml(ll. m..Mang. Petr. Plw6•.e.
Pula. SeiiL Sil Sulpb. Tab.
- toes, Alum. Amlin. Ant.a. Am.Carb.a.
Dulc.Mur.ac. P1110n. Phos.ac. PoLe.
Sabin. Stapla. Tar.
Burning 1p0t1, lower ex., Lye. Mgu.c.
Phoe.ae.
a.riel, eee See. 1. under "bones".
Clailblaiu, Aman.Amm.c.Carb.a.Carb.v.
Croc. Nitr. ac; Nuxv. Op. Petr. Phol.
Phoe.ae. Pull. SW1n. Staph. Sulpla.
Tlauy. Zinc.
ClaiUine,,1. ex., Par. Sep.
Coldne.1, L ex., BeU. Cic. Ipee. Led.
Nitr. ac. Nux v. Op. Plulab. Rhod.
Sec. Sep.
- thighs, Nuxv.
- legs, Amb. Sil.
- feet, Aeon. Alum. Amll. Ataae. Ant.
tart. Bell. Calc. c. Carb. c. CG1Ut. ~
Con. Dig. Graph. Hydr. Hydr. chl
corr. bee. Laur. Lye. Nitr. ac. Petr.
Phoe. Plumb. Pot. c. Rhod. Sass. SeiiL
Sf!P. Sil. Sod.c.Sod.ebl.Stann.Stroot.
Sulph. Sulpb.ae. Verat. Zinc.
- - m the morning, Anac.
- - in the evening, Calc. c.
- - - in bed, Carb. a. Graph. Nax.v.
Pot.c. . ·
- - when walking. Anac.
- - after foot11weat euppreseed, Sil.
- toes, Aeon.
- sens. of, l ex., Hydr. Rhod.
- icy, on single spots, Berb.
- on the foot-joint, Berb.
To take cold, liability, feet, Con. 8il.
Contract~ pain, Amm.c. Caut. Kram.
Lye.
- calfof the leg, Lye.
- ridge ofthe foot, Cm~~t•
Convullionl, l ex., Cuer. Hy<*l. Ign.
/pee. Moech. Nuxv. Up. Plumb.ScilL
&c. Spong.
Corn•, Amm.c. Ant.1. Bar.c. Bov. Bry.
Calc.c. Caust. Lye. Nitr.ac. Petr.
Ph01. Ph01.ac. Rhod. Sep. Sil. Sod.c.
&xl. cl&l. Staph. Sulpb.
- bo~g, Sod. c. Sod. chi. ,
- bummg, Amm.c. Bar.c. Bruc. Bry.
Calc.c. Ign. Phoe. ao. Ran.ec. Tox.
- inflamed, &p.
- paintW. in gen., Bry. Oale.c. Cauat.
Nitr.ao. Phoe. Pot. c. Sod.chlSulph.
--when touched, Bry. Pot. c.
- pinching, Bar. e. · ·
- pre&Bing, Ant. a. Bry.·Sulph.
- rending, Amm. c. Sulph.ae.
- eore smarting, Amb. Bry. Calc.o.
Lye. Tox. Verat.
-stinging, Amm.c. Bar.c. Bov. Bey.
,...._.
- . ....
Calc. a. 14Jc. Phoe. ae. Ran. ac. Rhod.
Sep. Sil. SOd.c. &d.cAZ:Sulph. Sulph.
ae. Verat.
C•lllgiG, Arg. Ar•. AUG. Aur. Bell.
Bry. Calc. c. Calc. '· Cant& Clumt.
. . Coloc. Dig.Graph.Hytlr. Nut1. PUZ..
Sep. StaJ1h. To-r.
Crackling (Knacken), in thejoints, Bry.
Campn.Cocc.Led.Nuxv.Pe&r.Ran.b.
8el. Tab. Thuy.
- when bending, SeL
-when ~oving, Coco. Nuxv.
- when stretching- out, Thuy.
- when walking, .Led. Tab. .
Cramp (Klamm), I. ex.,Amb. AJ8. C.ZC. c.
Graph. Phoa. Sil
- buttocks, Graph.
- hif~S! Coloc. . ,
- th~ghs, Alar. Ctmn. Hyo~C. Petr. Sep.
Tox.
- knee-hollow; Calc. c•. Cann. PIOOD.
Phoe.
- I~ Carb. a. Carb. v. Coloc. Sass.Tab.
- shln, Amm. c. .
-calves of the legs, Alum. Amm. c.
Anac. Ant. tart. Arg. Ars. Bar.c. Bov.
Bry. Calc. c. Calc. s. Camph. Cann.
Carb. a. Carb. v. Cham. Coff. Cupr.
· Ferr. ·Ferr. Dlllgn. Graph. Hydr.
Hyoec. Lye. Mgn.c. Mgn.m. Nitr.ac.
Nux tl. Oleand; Petr. Sass. Sec. &p.
Sil. Sod. c. Sol. nig. ~taph. Sulph.
- feet, Amm. c, Caust. Graph. Lye.
Ran. b. Sod. c. Stram. Sulph.
- soles, Amm. c. Calc. c. Calc. a. Carb. v.
Chel Coff. Ferr. Jamb. Petr. Plumb.
Sil. Staph. SuJph.
- toes, Bar.c. Calc.c. Calc.1. Carb.a.
Ferr. Lye. Nice. Sulph.
- in t.he morning (ia bed), Bov. Bry.
Nitr.ac.
- in the.evening, Sil.
-at night, Amb. Bry. Carb.v. Cham.
Jamb. Lye. Mgn. c. Mgn. m. Nitr. ac.
Nuxv. Sep. Staph. Sulph. Tox.
- when bending the foot forwards, Coff.
- when or0118ing the legs, Alum.
- when going down stairs, Arg.
- when lifting the leg, Coff. .
- when putting on boots, Calc. c.
- in sitting, Oleand. PIBOD. To-r.
- after sitting, Nitr. ac.
- when stepping out, Alum.
- when walkin~, Lpc. Nitr.110. Sep.
- after a walk, m satting, 2bx. .
Cramping pain (Klamm8chmerz), I. ex.,
Artemo J.
od. Pho6. ao.
- hifM! Arg. Carb. v. Colee. Rut.
- th.ghs, Carb. v. Cyc. Mana'. Mur. ao.
01. Phoe. ac. Plat. Ran. b. Rut Sabin,
Val. Verb.
Digitized by Coogle
34. Lower extremitie$. 593
Clr•mping pain, knees, Arg. Dry. Car&.,._ /Jf:~wiag pain, thighs, Anac. Am. Berb.
Led. 01. . Caust. Cham. Colch. Cupr. Dule.Jod.
- legs, Anac. Alltf. Bry. Camph. Cauat.. Kram. Mang. M~ :Mar.ac. Nux v.
Ofeand. Phos. ao. Sod.c. Verb. .1 Ol. P~ls. .Ran.b. Rut. Sabin. Samb.
- shin, Jamb, Scill. &4. ehl. Stram. Tereb. Val
- cRives ofthe legs, ,Anee, Berb. 0.111&. Zinc.
~u'JJAr, Led. Lye. . - knees, Alum. Anac. Allar. Bry. Caust.
- bee1, Jamb. Led. Cocc. Cupr. Jod. Kram. P.ia.. Puis.
- feet, Ang. Arg. Campb. Oleand. Pboe. ~bin. Sep. &d. elal. S&ana. Staph.
ac. Plat. Verb. Zmo.
- toes, Phos. ac. Plat. - legs, Aman. Amm. c. Anae. Bry.
Crooking of the knees, Lye. Sulpb. Calc. c. Carb. a. Cauat. FeN". Kram.
To cry out, pain in the legs, Sep. Mez. Mur.ac. Oleand. Ol. Phos.Pot.c.
Cutting, pain, I. ex. , Dros. Grapb. Ign. Puis. Rlwd. ScilL Sep. SiL Sod.c.
Sod. c. Sod. ehl. &d: '· Spong. Staph. Tox.
- hips, Calc. c. . VioL ~rio. Zinc.
- thighs, Dig. -.tendo achillis, Mur. ac. Sod. s.
- knees, Arg. - heel, Sep.
- feet, Amb. Sod. c. - feet,Cann.Caust..Cocc.Kram.Mgn.c.
- foot-joint, Arg. Mez. Oleand. Ol. Puis. Rlaotl. Spong.
- heel, Puis. 8tront. Verat. Zinc.
- toes, Led. Preon. Phos.ac. . -foot-joints, Cann. Stroot. Val. Zinc.
Dea~ness (Absterben), I. ex., (in the open - tal'llal bonae, CuJ>r. Rhod. Staph.
air) Graph. - toes, Aur. Cocc. Kram. Mez. 01. Sep.
- legs, Amm. m. 8iL Stroot.
- feet, Calc. c. Nux v. Tox. Drop.y, see "swelling, hydropical."
- - in the everung, Calc. c. DrtjniH, knee-joint, Nuxv.
- toes, Chel. Cyc. Sec. - feet, Phos. Sep. Sil.
- - after walkihg, Cyc. Emt.reiation (wasting), L ex., Berb. Sel
Decurtation, of the tendons, l. ex., Mes. Eruption, 1. ex., Ant.l!l. Clem.
- knee-hollow, Amm. m. Ars. Graph. -between the thighs, Petr. BeL
Sod. c. Sod. chl. - on the buttocks, Ant. s. Sel. Thuy.
- ridge ofthe foot, Caust. - .thighs, Petr. Thuy.
Disability (disabling pain) (Lahmigkeit),' - knees, Anac. Ant. s. Hydr. Laeh.
I. ex., Amm. m. Artem. Carb. v. Cbel. Phos. ac. Thuy.
Cinch. Dig. Sen. Sep. Sil. Sod. cl&l. - legs, Bov. Phos. ae. Sep.
Stann. Stront. Sulph. Verat. - calves ofthe legs, Petr. SiL Thuy.
- - after vexation, Sep. - teet, Con. Sep.
- hips, Aeon. Arg. Chel. DrO.. Evon. - toee, Sod.c. 8ulph.
Plumb. Sol. m.
- thighs, Ars. Carb. v. Oinch. Coloh. - blotches (Q.uaddeln), Ant. s. Lach.
Dros. Ferr. Guaj. Sulph.
- knees, Anac. Aur. Berb. Cine/a. E110R. - oonftuent, Phos. ae.
Mosch. Plumb. Rut. Sulph. VaL - ~~renous, Hyosc.
- legs, Cinch. Jamb. Mosch. Pot. Diu. - 1tehing, Anac. Hydr. Lach. Petr. Sel.
Rut. Sep. SiL Thuy.
- feet, Ang. Cham. Cinch. Jamb.Oleand. - lumpy, Petr. Ther. Thuy.
01. Par. Plumb. Sod. chi. Tab. - miliary, Bov. Hydr. Sil.
- toes, Aur. Cinch. - pbagedrenic, Sulpb.
Dislocation, see laxation and "stepping -pimples, Phos.ae. Sel. Sep. Thuy.
false". -pustules, Clem. Thuy.
Drawing pain, lower ex., Amm. m. Ang. - - black, Ar1. Sec.
Ant. s. Artem. Bar. c. Bry. CtWb. v. - - suppurating, Con. Thuy.
Cham. Chel. Con. Dulc. Grapla. Hydr. - with a red areola, Ant. s.
Jod. Led. Lye. Mgn. c. Nux v. Par. - ulcerating, Phos. ao.
Pot.c. Sil. Stann. Stront. Sulph.Thuy. ..... veaicles, Hy0110. Sod. c. Sulph.
Verat. Zinc. -white, Thuy.
-joints, Chel. Stront. Erysipela, legs, Call. c. Sod. c. Sulph.
- bones, Cinch. Con. Pot. c. Rhod. Val. Zinc.
- hips, Ant. s. Calc. c. Carb. v. Chel. - feet, Am.
Con. Evon. Par. Plumb. Rut. Sod. Excoriation, see "galled".
chi. Stann. Tereb. Tox Exosto1il, see Sec. 1. under •'honea".
D,9,;ized by Coogle
34. Lower extremities.
To foil reclilg, liability, C.mt. Mp. c. Herpu, thighs, Clem. GrGplt. Hydr. P~tr.
Pbos. Sod.chi: Staph. Zinc.
- childnm, Catl8t.' - kneeS, Carb. v. Pbos.
Freutng aene., Lye. Plat. Rut. - knee-hollow, Ars. Graph. Petr. Phol!l.
Fungu articvlorum, white swelling, Sod. c. Sod. chl Su!Jlh.
tumor albu,.(Giiedechwamm),on tlie .-calves of the lep, t,)'c.
knee, or /ungtU gerau (Knieschw.), - ankle, Cyc. Petr. Sod. c. Sod. chL
Ant. s. Sil. Sulpb. - Suiph.
Fuf'Uf&Ciu, buttocis. Calc.•· PM.. ac. - between the toes, Alum. Graph.
- thighs, Clem. Mgn. c. Petr. Sep. Sil.
- knee-hollow, Sep. · · - itching, Mur.ac. Nice. Staph.
- lers. Mgn. c. Nitr. ac. Petr. - BCaly, Clem.
-, cftlves of the legB, Sil - HerpetiC BpOts. thighs. Mur. ae.
Galled between the thighs, Bar.c. Calc.s. - Calves Of the legs. Sass.
Cawst. CUzcla. Graph. Hydr. Lye. Hip-gout, see coxalgia.
Nitr. ae. Petr. Rhod. &p. &d.e, Sod. HOriirlike spots on the soles. Ant. s.
chi. 8ulpl&. - toes. Ant. s. Graph. ·
- knee-hollow, Amb. Jerking, ofthe legs.Amb. Amm.c. Bar.e..
- between the toes, Gr~~plt. Lye. Mang. Carb. v. Cic. lfn. lpec. Lye. OJI. Plat.
Phos. ae. Sod.c. Pot.c. Scill. Si . Sod.c. Sod.chl.Stram.
Ganglion, on the ridge of the foot, Ferr. Strout. Sulph.
magn. . - feet,. Cic. Ipec. Lye. 8ep.
Gangrenous spots, legs, Hy011e. Jerltiftg pain hip!!, Mgn. m. Mez. Puis.
Gangrene of the toes, See. - thighS, Ang. Hydr. suiph. rub. Kram.
Gnawing, pain, Ran. sc. . Mang. Mez. Puis. Sod.c. Tox. Val.
Grubbing (Wiihlen), Ep. R1wd. - knees. Amm. c. Anac. Cinch.
_Hard, callous, skin of the 110188, Sil. - legs, Ainm. c. Anac. Hydr. sulpb. rub.
- toes, Graph. Kram. Mez. Nitr. ac. Phos. ToL ·
Best, hips, Pboli. - feet, Kram. Pot. nit.r.
- knee, lgn. Phos. ,.... toes, Amm. m. Mez. P11r. Ran.BC.
- legs, Aeon. Sod.a. l'fllrmity, Lex., Amb. Bry. Cann. Hell.
- - intheeveningandmorning,Sod.s. Nuxv.
- feet, Aeon. Led. Petr. Phos. Puis. - hips, Cinch.
Stann. St.aph. - knees, Aeon. Cinch. Mang.
- - in the evening, Led. - feet, Cinch.
- - at night, Staph. Injlammation, thilth, Sil. Sod.c.
- toes. Zinc. - knees. Cocc. Pull.
Heaviness, fower ex., Alum. Aman. Amb. - legs. Aeon. Calc. c. Sod. e.
Ang. Ant. tart. BeU. Berb. Cede. c. - tendo aebillis. Zillc.
Carb.v.Graph.Hydr.Ign.Jod.Mgn.m. - feet, Aeon. Arn. Carb.a. Zinc.
Nitr. ac. Nu:x v. Op. Phos. Puis. Sec. - fOot-joint, Mang.
Sep. Sod. c. Sod. chi. Spig. 8t•nn. - ridge of the foot, Puis. Thuy.
8ulph. Sulph. ac. Thuy. To,;. Verb-. - toes, Carb. a. Phos. Pols. Thuy. Zint.
- - at night, Sulph. . lschi4dic pain, see coxalgia.
- - when ascending steps, Thuy. Itching, l. ex., Lye.
- - in the open air, Graph. - buttocks, Mgn. c. Ther.
--when walking, Thuy. ' -thighs, Bar. c. Cale.c. Nitr.ac. Petr.
-hi~ Ant. tart. Mgn. s. · Ran. b. Thuy.
-thighs, Aman. Ang. Hydr. NuxY. -between the thighs, Carb. v. Petr.
Thuy. Pot. c. Sod. chi.
- knees, Pul&l. Rut. Stann. ToL Verat. - knees, Lye.
- legs, Ang. Coloc. Ferr. Hydr. Pull. - legs. Bism. Calc. c. Canst.
Rut. &d. chl. Verat. - feet, Bism. Calc. c. 8el.
- calves of the legs, Eupbr. Tox. · - - in the evening, SeL
- feet, Aeon. Agn. Ant. tart. BelL lgn. - ankle, 8el. Sod. bor.
Nit.r. ac. Op. . Plumb. Puis. Sabad. - soles, Amb. 8il.
8od. c. 8od. chl. Sod.s. Verat. Verb. - toes , Aman. Preon. Sod. s. Staph.
Herpes, 1. ex., Bov. Graph. Hydr. Lye. Zinc.
Petr. Staph. Zinc. - -when undressing one-self, in the
-between the thighs, Petr. Sod. chi. evening, Sod.s.
- on the buttocks, Sod.c. Knicking together (Einknicken, Ulll·
- hips, Nice. . knicken), hips, Cinch. ·
Digitized by Google
34. Lower extremities.
~ together, knees, ACOb. ·Am.
Bry. Cann. .Ciaeh. Nitr.ac. Nu:ev.
.Rut. Stann. Stram. Sulph. Viol. trie.
- - when ueending etaira, Omn.
- - when8
f.!:fdown etaira, Rut.
- - in w . , Stann. Stram. VioL
trie.
- feet, BelL Cie. Cinch. Nitr. ac:.
- - easily, Carb. a. Sulph.
- toes, Carb. n. Lye.
Xnocking (Pueken), feet, Cann.
- toes, A11a. Plat.
bm.Jroor, Lueitude ( Mattigkeit), L ex.,
Aman. Amm..e. Amm. m. Ang. Bell
Bry. Calc. s. CasL Con. Ind. Mgn. m.
Nitr.ac. Nuxv. Pboe. Plat. Pot. nitr.
See. Sen. Stann. Sulph. T4uy. Verb.
-thighs, ·Aman. Ang. Am. A.ra. Bry.
Croe.Rhm.SaaL
- knees, Anac. Allar. Cann. Con. Hydr.
H.fOIC. Myr. Nitr.ac. Pule. Sue. Sod.
clil. Staph. Sulph.
- legs, Ang. Asar. Bry. Ferr. Pot. nitr.
Pula. Soil.ehL Val.
- feet, Bell. Croc. Hydr. Lye. Nitr. ac.
~umb.Sods. Verb.
- in the evenin~ (in bed), Ind.
-when ucendmg steps, Bry. Thuy.
Verb.
-in the open air, Graph.
- in sittin$", Croe. Mgn. m. Plat.
- in standmg, Bry.
- while walking, Arn. Bry. Calc. &
- 'after walking, Pot. nitr.
Ltu:ity of the lege, Amm. e.
Luzation (Dislocation), spontaneous, of
the hip, (Coxarthroeaee, freiwilliges
Hinken) Bell. Calc. c. Coloc. Lye.
Pula. To.r. Zinc:
- .- from pain, Carb.a• .Dros. Nitr. ac.
Pot.jod.
- foot-joint, Rut.
Marbled skin, legs, Caust. .
- ridge of the foot, Thuy.
Moiltnu1, between (scrotum and) the
thighs, Bar.c. Calc.1. Carb.v. Petr.
- on the thigh, Sulph.
Mwcle1, twitching, Arg. ASil8. Aur.
Graph. Man~: Mar. Pot.c. Rhm. Sod.
chi. Spong. viol. tric.
- when exercising, Mang.
Naiu, blue, Dig.
- crippled, Graph. Sep.
- disColored, Ars.
- painful, Mar.
- Ulcerous, see Ulcers.
Numbne11 ( Einschlafen), Alum. Amb.
Berb. Bov. Calc. e. Carb. v. Cinch.
Graph. Led. Lye. Olesnd. Petr. Plat.
Plumb. Pot. c. Rhm. Sep. Sil. Sulph.
Sulph.ae. Thuy. Verat.
Nurnlnaeu (Einseblafen), in the eYening,
SiL
- - at night, Alum.
- ...... when el'888ing the legs, Rhm.
- - after meals, Pot. e.
- - in Bitting, Ant. tart. Calc.e. Cinch.
Sil. .
- knees, Carb. v.
- feet, Ant. tart. Coee. Laur. Mille£
Nux v. Oleand. Plumb. Pot. e. Sep.
Sil.
- soles, Oleand. Sep. . .
01titil, 111ee See. 1. under "bonea".
01teomalocia or malaeosteon, see ibid.
Pain, simple, I. ex., Calo.e. Lye. Nitr. ac.
See. swph.
- buttocks, Sulph.
- joints, Phos. Sulpb•
.;._ bones, Ep. Hydr. Mez. 01eand.SuJpb.
- hips, Aeon. Aman. Bar.c. Bell. Carb.a.
Lye. Phos. Pot.jod. Sod. a. To.r.
- thighs, Ars. Hydr. Mez. Nitr.ae.
- knees, Cann. Nitr. ae. Zinc.
- legs, Aeon. Bell. Mez.
- heels, Aman. Calc.e. Ep.
- Coot-joints, Aeon. Phos. Ran. b.
- soles, Are. Lye.
- toes, Calc. e.
Painful spots, on the shin, Amb.
-on the foot, when touched, Ferr.
magn.
P~, L ex., Anac. Ang. · BeU. Cocc.
JOel. Nu:c v. Oleand. QiJ. Plumb. Sec.
Sil. Sod. ebL Stann. Stront. Sulph.
Tox. Zinc.
- hifS! Verat.
- th.ghs and knees, Chel.
- feet, Ang. Bell. Cinch. Coee. Nu:c w.
Oleand. Plumb. Sulph. Tox. Zinc.
As if paUied, sens. in the knees after
walking, Berb.
Periodical pain, Lye.
Per6piration, I. ex., Phos. Sep.
- - at night, Coloe. Mang. Tereb.
- thighs, Amb. Carb. a. Thuy.
- - in walking, Amb.
- ..:.. at night or in the morning,Carb.a.
- legs, Rhod.
- feet, Aeon. Amm. e. Bar. e. Calc. c.
Carb.v. Coee. Cupr. Cye. Graph. Jod.
Lye. Mgn.m. Nitr.ae. Phos.ae. Plumb.
Pot. c. Sabad. Sep. Sil. Sulph. Thuy.
- - at night, Coloe.
- - cold, Coec. Hydr.lpee. ~· Sulph.
- - excoriating, Jod. Lye. S1L Zinc.
- - fe~id, Amm.e. Bar. c. Cye. Gr'!J'h·
N1tr. ae. Phos. Plumb. Pot. c. I:Sep.
Sil. Zinc.
--suppressed, Cupr. Pot.e. Sep. SiL
Sod. chi.
- between the toes, Aeon. Cyc. Ferr.
Pot. e. SeilL SiL Tar. Thuy. ·
Digitized by Coogle
34. ,Lower extremities.
Plltlledenic~ Caust. Gtwpla. Sq.
SiLSulph.
Phlegtn41ia alba dokru, eee white Je«,
PodtigrG, Amb. Am. Con. Graph. 1M.
&bin. Sulpl. Verat.
Pre11ing pain, lower ex., Arg.Cyo.Led.
Oleand. Plw&.ac. Rut. &il1. Sod.chL
Stann. Staph. Verat.
- bonee, Guaj.
- hipe, Arg. Allar•.Ferr. map. Hell.
Stann.
- thighs, Aman. Anac. Aaar. Cupr.
Guaj. Led. Oieand. Phoa. ac. Pot.o.
Sass. Sil. Verb.
- kneee, Cupr. Led. Sea
- legs, Anac. PhO& ac. Pot. c. Sa&
Socl. c. Verb.
- shin, Mez. Staph.
- calves of the legs, AMC.
- feet, Oleand. Phoe.ao. Verb.
- foot-joint, Aman. ,
- tarslil bones, BUm. Cupr. Sabin.
Staph. .
- toes, Oleand. PhO& ao.
Prickling in the feet, Sep.
Pullation, heel, Ran. b.
- toes, Zinc.
Ratping pain, foot-joint, Plat. '
- between the toes, Sod. c.
:Reclneu, of the toe8, Aman. AJDJD. c.
Berb. Carb. v. PhO& Sod.chi.
Red tpot•, I. ex., Sulph.
- buttocks, Mgn. c.
- thigb.B,CCyc. Sulfh. L ..,__ Sil.
- legs, ale. c. Con. yc. """"""
Stilph. ac.
- ridge of the foot, Thuy.
- burning, Lye. Ph011. ac. ·
- itching, Sulph. ac.
- turning livid, as after contusion,Con.
- marbled, Thuy.
- painful, Lye. Sulph.
- raspjng, Sil. .
- as ifeialded, Cyc.
- after scratching, Mgn. o.
Rending, L ex., Alum. Aman. Amb. Ar8.
Artem.Bar.c. Bell. Berb. Cantla.CAam.
Cinch. Colch. Dulc. Hydr. Ign. Ind.
L,c. Mgn. s. Mar. Par. Phos. ac.
Pot. c. Pot. nitr. Rhod. Sa11. BiL
Stann. Stron'- Sulph. Verat. Zinc.
- joints, Mar. PoL c. StronL
-bones, Aman. Amm.m. Aur. Bar.o.
Cinch. Hydr. Lye. Mgn.s. Mar. Pot.
nitr. Rhod.
- hipa, Amm.m. .Ars. Calc.e. Carb.v.
Ferr. Graph. Hydr. Mgn. m. Par.
PhO&ac. Pot.c. Sep. Stann. Tab. Toa-.
-thighs, Alum. Aur. Camph. Caust.
Cham. Cinch. Clem. DUJc. Euph.
Ferr. Hydr. Kram. Mgn. s. Mez. Mur.
ac. 01. Plumb. Pot. c. Sabin. 8uL
Se.P· Sil Tereb. Toz. Zinc.
RMding, kneee, Arg. Am. BeU. Bry.
CaiC.o. Caut. CiacA.Cocc.Con. Hydr.
Krom. Leur. Lefl. Lye. Mang. Mille£
Phol. Plumb. Sass. Sep. 8il. Stann.
Sulph. Zinc.
- 1~, Alum. Amm. m. Brv. Campb.
Ctnch. Coleh. Croe. Lye. Mez. Mille£
OJ. Phos. Pot. c. RhOtl. Sabad. Sass.
Sep.Sod.s. Spong. Staph. Verb. Zinc.
..,... shm, Berb. PhO& ac. Bep. Staph.
,_ calfof the leg, Bry. Sablid. Sod.s.VaL
,.... tendo achilli8. Berb. Sod. s.
- heels, Amm. m. Am. Berb. Sep. SiL
,_ feet, A.lrn. Camph. Caul&. Cham.
Ciach. Cooc. ColcA. Grapll. K.ram.
Lye. Mez. OL Ph011. PoLe. Rlwd. Sil.
Sod. c. Spong. Stroot. Sulph. Verat.
Z'mc.
- foot-joint, Alum. Amnn. Amm.c. Am.
Berb. Dros.Mar. Po&. c. Samb.Stann.
Suont. Zinc.
- tarsal bones, Arg. Bima. Q;aci.MIIf'.
Pot.c. Sabin. Staph. •
-soles, Coloc. Pot.nitr. Val.
- toes,.A,ol. Amm.m. Arg. Aur. Camph.
Cinch.Cocc. Colch.Graph. Ind. Kr&m.
Mgn.s. Mar. Mez. Ol.Par. Plat. Pot.c.
Sit Sod. c. Sod.chi. StronL Val.
- ioints of the toe8, Arg. Aur. Mar.
Pot. c. Stront.
- under the nails, Camph.
&ltlumen, legs and feet, Anac. Ani.
Bar. c. Carb. v. CRust. Cinch. Croc.
Ferr. Graph. Hydr. Lye. Mgn.earb.
Mgn. m. Mosch. Nitr.ac. Plat. Pot. c.
Sep. Sil. Sod.chi. Sod.a. Sulph.
- in the evening, Lye. Nitr. ac. Pot. c.
Sep.
- .at night, Lye.
R/uJJ(ade1 (cracks in the akin), Alum.
Aur. Calc. c. Calc. '· Petr. Sulph.
Zinc.
Rheumatic pain, see Sec. 1.
Semelumi11 (Taubheit), I. ex., Alum.
Carb. v. Cocc. Graph. Hydr. Led.
Nuz v. Op. Pot. c. Sec. Sil. Spon8·
Suiph. Sulph.ac. Tox.
- - at night, Alum.
- thighs, Ferr. Graph. PiaL
- legs, Amm. m. Arg. Sil.
- heels, Arg.
- feet, Am. Aasa. Carb. v. Con. Nux w.
Plat. Plumb. Pot. nitr. Puis. Tox.
- - in sitting, Plat.
- toes, Chel. Graph. Phos. Puis.
Shivering, on the legs, Men. Pot. c.
8hriveUed skin, Rhod.
.&re pt~in, hiJIB, Puis.
- bones, Le(l.
- thighs, Led. Puis. Sulpb.
Digitized by Coogle
34. Lower extremities. 597
Sore pain, knees, Carb. a. Led.
- heels, Ran. b.
- ankles, Plat.
- toes, Ars. Berb. Cyc. Ran. b. Sod.c.
Soreness (Wundheit), see galled.
Spasm (and distortion) I. ex., Ars. Artem.
Hyosc. Plumb. Sec. Spong.
- hips, Phos. ac.
- knee, extending upwards and down-
wards, Berb.
- le1,rs, Ourc.
- feet, Jod. Sec.
- - at night, Jod.
Spots, see the different colors.
St~II.gering, see "tottering".
Stiffness, I. ex., Anac. Bell. Calc. c. Caps.
Cic. Cupr. Dig. Lye. Mang. Nux v.
01. Sep. Sod. chi. Spong. Tereb.Thuy.
Tox.
- - afu>r sitting, Bell. Dig. Nux v. &p.
Zinc.
- - when walking, OJ. Thuy.
- - by walking relieved, Dig.
- hips, Aeon. Bar. c. BelL Rhm. Staph.
Tox.
- - in the morning, Staph.
. - - rising up impeded, BelL
- thigha,Ars.Graph,Sod.ebl.Thuy.Tox.
- knees, Amm. m. Ant. e. Are. Bry.
Carb. v. Coloc. Ferr. magn. Graph.
HelL Hyoee. Ign. Led. Lye. Mez.
Nitr.ac. Nuxv. OL Petr. Rhm. Saae.
&p. Sod.ebl. Spig.Stann. Sulph.Tox.
- - stretching out impeded, Ant. e.
- - cowering down lDlpeded, Coloc.
Graph.
- lega, Bry. Ferr. Saae. Tox. Zinc.
- feet, Amb. Cape. Dros. Graph. Ign.
Led. Petr. Pot.c. Ran. b. &p. Sulph.
Sulph. ac. Zinc.
- toes, Gr-aph. Sil. Sulph.
, &~ pam, L ex., Bry. Coloc. Dros.
Euphr. Gt-at. Hydr. Led. Nw:11. Pot.c.
Bau. Sulph. Thuy.
- joints, Sil Thuy.
- bones, Hydr.
- biJllil, Arum. m. Arg. Bell. Calc. c.
Carb.a. Coloc•.Evon. Ferr. HelL Hydr.
Hydr.chl. eorr. Nuxv. Pot.jod. Sabin.
Sep. Sil. Sod.chl. Sol.m. To.r.
- thighs, Arg. Bry. Calc.c. Ferr. Ferr.
magn. Hydr. :Mang. Nux v. Oleand.
Plumb. Sabad. Samb. 8888. 8ep. Sil.
Spig. Tar. Tox.
- kDees, Ant.e. Bar.c. Berb. Bov. Bry.
Calc.c. Ferr. m&gJl. HeU. Hydr. Laur.
Nitr. ac. 01. Petr. Plumb. PUZ.. Rhm.
Sabad. 81181. &p. Sit. Spig. Staph.
Bulph. Sulph. ac. Tab. Tar.Tox.Verb.
Violtrie. ,
- l~A.nt. 11- Bry.Carb.a.Cinch.Coloc.
Rhm. Baa Stip. Tox.
Stinging_ ~· shin, Ant. 8. Berb. Semb.
Sep. V1oL tric.
- calf ofthe leg, Bry, Tar.
- tendo achillis, Berb. Mur. ac.
- heels, Berb. Ferr. magn. Gr-GfJh. Nitr.
ac. Pule. Ran. b. Sep. Sil. Va1.
- feet, Aman. Bry. Grat. Oleaod. 01.
Ph011o Sil. Sod. s. Sulph. Viol. tric.
- foot-joint, Arn. Bov.HeU. Mang.Pot.e.
Sil. Spig. Tox.
- tarsal bones, Aur. Pula.
- ridge ofthe foot, PUZ.. ,
- soles, Bry. Graph. PUZ.. Sod. c. Tar.
- toes, Aman. Amm. m. Ant. tart. Aur.
' Berb. Bry. Carb. v. Ferr.magn. Mgn.s.
Oleand. Par. Ph08. Pot.c. PUZ.. Ran.b.
Ran.•c. Sabin. Sil. Sod.ehl.Tox. Verat.
Verb. Zinc.
Stinking feet, Sil.
&rai1aing aa if too short, 1. ex., Amh.
Amm. m. Bar. c. Caust. Phoe. Sil.
Sod.e. Zmc.
- groin, Carb. a.
- hif>S! Amm. m. Carb.v. Coloc.
-thighs, Berb. Carb. v. Mgn. m. OL
Plat. Sabin.
- - when sitting down, Sabin.
- knees, A~. m. BelL Carb.a. Carb.v.
Caust. Con. Euphr. Graph. Led. Mez.
Nuxv. 01. Petr.Phos.&mb. 8od.cltl.
Sulph. Verat.
- calf of the leg, Arg. Bov. Cape. Led.
Sil. Sod. c. Soil. chi.
- tendo achilful, Eupbr. Graph.
- heel, Led. Sep.
- feet, Carb. a. C.U.t. Plat. Sep. Sod.
earb.
- toes, Plat.
Stretching, spasmodic, Artem.
To •tretch Ot't the legs, incl., Sulpb. ac.
SweUing,I.ex., Ars. Calc. e. Carb. v. Coo.
Dule. Hydr. Jod. Led. Lye. Nux v.
Sep: Sil. Sulph. Tox.
- buttocks, Phos.ac. Sulph.
- thighs, Cinch. Hydr. Led.
- knees, Ant. s. Bry. Calc. c. Calc. •·
CincA. Cocc. Ferr. Jod. Led. Lye.
Mur. ae. Puls. Sass. Sep. Sil. Sulph.
- knee-hollow, Mgn. c.
- legs, Aeon. Arn. Bry. Calc. c. Colcla.
Dulc. Graph. Hydr. ~d. Lye. Nuxv.
Pot. c. PUZ.. Rhod. Sil. Sod. e. .
- Bhin, Ph011o
- calfof the leg, Bry. Cinch. Mez.
- tendo achillis, Zinc.
- - lymphatic, Berb.
- heels, Ant. Hydr. Petr.
-feet, Aeon. Amb. Amm.c. Am. Ar•.
Bar. m. BelL Jmi, Carb. a. Catut.
CincA. Cocc. Con.F~rr. Graph. HyOI!IC.
Led. Lye. Op. Petr. Phos. Phoe. ac.
Plumb. Pot. c. Puht. Rbod. Sabael.
Digitized by Coogle
34. Lower extremitieS.
Sua. &c. &p. 8il. Stanu. Stroot.
Sulph. Sul}>h. ae. Tox. Verat. Zinc.
&«Uing, foot-joint&, Arn. A-. Calc.e.
Ferr. Lye. Sulph.
- tarsal bonea, H,dr. Staph.
- ankles, Arn. A11•. Ca1c. e. Calc. e.
Lye. Mang. Phoe. Stan. Sulph.
- ridge of the foot, Dry. Hydr. PuU.
Staph. Tltuy. .
- eolee, Calc.c. Lye. Petr. Pule. Sod. c.
- toes, Amm. c. Af'll. Bar. c. Carb. 11.
Carb. v. Graph. Lel. Mur. ac. Pttma.
Phoe. ae. Plat. Sabin. Sod.c. 8ulpla.
Tltuy. Zinc.
- c;old, A888.
-hard, Are. Cinch. Graph. Led. Mez.
- hot, Aeon. Amm.c. Am. Bl-y. Carb.a.
Oirtch. Cocc. Colch. Led. Petr. Pula.
Sass.
- hydropical, Hydr. ( comp. Dropsy
Sec. 1.)
- - after scarlet-fever, Bar. m.
- itching, Coce.
- lympliatic, Bar.c.
- painful, Aeon. Ant. e. Arn. Carb.a.
Cinch. Con. ~.c. Sep.
--burning, Ant. e. Ar1. Mur. ac.
Petr. Pboe.ac. Pula.
- - cutting, Phoe. ac.
- - drawing, Am. Led.
- - pressing, Led.
- - rending, Colch. Led. Plat.
- - stinging, Ant.s. Am. Dry. Carb.v.
Coce. Graph. Led. Lye. Petr.
Puu. Sus.
- - throbbing, Phoe. ac. Plat.
- - tigh~ning, Bry. Cinch. Led. Sass.
Thuy. ,
- soft, Led. (comp. DroJ18! Sec. 1.)
- white, Are. Bel[ Calc. c. Graph. Hydr.
Jod. Lye. Nuxv. Sulpb. :fox.
- in the morning, Sil. .
- in the ev~ning, Amm. c. Cocc. Phoe.
Stann.Tox. ·
- after barks exceMively W!ed, Pula.
Suiph.
- after walking in the open air, Phoe.
Tearing, see rending.
Tentlernm ( Empfindlichkeit ), eolee,
Sabad. Sass.
- toes, Calo. c.
Tendon~ twitching, feet, Jod.
Temion (Spannen), 1. ex., Ang. Bar. c.
Calc.s. Coloc. M1mg. Nuxv. Plat.Tox.
- hiJIS! Coloc. Con. Tox.
- th~ghs, Am. Cham.Guaj. Hell.Kram.
Mez. OL Pula. Sabin. Spig. Sulpb.
Tox.
- knees, Ant. tart. Am. Berb. Bry.
Calc.c. Caps. Con. Dig. Euphr. HeU.
Led. Nux v. OL Petr. Pul8. Stann.
Sulpb. Tox. Zinc.
•
Temion, legs, Amm. m. Bar.c. Brv.
Caust. Cham. Ign. Mez. Pule. Tab.
Tox.
- calvee,Alum.Anae.Bar.c. Berb. Bry.
Cauet. Cupr. lgn. Mur.ac. Nuxv.
Pols. &b•il. val. Zinc.
- tendo aebillia, Mur. ac.
"T" heels, Led.
- feet, Cann. Mez. Sa& Tox.
- ridge ofthe foot, Ant. tart. Bry.Caust.
Thuy:.
-toes, Mez.
Tltrobbing, I. ex., Sep.
- hiJIB! Cale. e.
- th~ghs, Berb.
- reet, Arg.
- toes, .AJJlm. m. Phoe. ae. Plat.
Tickling, eolee, Ferr. mas:n.
- - after scratching, Sil.
Tingling, Bov. Caps. OL Plat. Rhod.
Sabad.&c.
- bones, Gu•j.
- thighs, GutJ ·•
- legs, Pot.c. !frab.
- calves, Zinc.
- feet, Am. Caps. CaUBt. Croc. Par.
Pot. nitr. Sep.
- toes, Amm. m. Colcla. Ran. sc. &c.
Sulph.
Tiredne11, eens. of, legs, M01eh.
- knees, Anac.
- feet, Alum. C.mn.
Torpor ( Starrheit), L ex. , Alum. Cic.
Dros. Petr. Sep.
- - at night, Alum;
- foot-joint, Dros. 8ep.
- eens. of; lower ex., Alum. Arg. Plat.
Rbod.
- feet, Aasa.
Tottering (Wanken), legs and knees,
Aman. AIIIU'. Aur. Dry. Cann. Hell.
Mur.ac.Nw:v.Piat.(comp.infirmity.) ·
To tread on, by pain impeded, knee~~,
Nitr.ae.
-legs, Lye.
- taraal bones, Rut.
Tremor, I. ex., Calc. c. Canth. Carb~ T.
Cic. Jod. Lye. Puis. Sen. Sod.c.
- - in the evening and at night, Lye.
- thighs, Anac.
-knees, Anac.Laur.Led.Mang.Nnxv.
Puis. Rut. Verb.
- - in sitting and walking, Led.
- legs, Bar.c. Cic. Coloc. Plat. PUZ.. Rut.
- feet, Bar.c. Bov. Coif. Lye. 01. Pz.t.
·· ~. 8trtJm. Tab. Verat. Zinc.
TIDitching, see jerking.
Ulcerr, buttoclui. Sabin.·Sulph.
- thigh, Sil.
- Jeri. Ar1. CtJlc.c. Graph. Lgc. Mur.ao.
Pllo8.ac. Bel. Sil. 8od.c. Sulpb.
- shin, &birt.
Digitized by Coogle
34.- Lower extremities. 599
~ foot, Bar.c.
- ankle, Sil. Sulpb.
- ricbre of&he foot, &p. Sulpla. .
- heel, Cauat. Sep.·Sod. c.
- toes, Ars. CarK v. Gr.,A. Plat. S..
Sil. &Upla. ,
- joint ofthe toe; Sep.
- on the nail, Caust. Sep•. 8il.
- bleeding easily, Phoe. ae.
- burning, Are. L1c.
- 1lat, SeL .
- foul, putrescent, MUJ'.ac.
-itching, Lye. Phoe.ac. 8il.
- painless, Sep.
- painful, at night, Lye.
- from pbagedamie blad. oJi8ioating,
Sep. SOO.c.
- puBY (~k.ig), &bin.
- rending, Lye.
- IIIUlious, Sulpb.
- stiuging, Ars. Sabin. 8il.
lllceroUpaia, buttocks, Pboe. Pull.
- legs, Puis.
- hiels, Amm.c. Anura.tn. Graph.
- Ceet, Bry. Sod.chL Sed.s.
- soles, Amb. Graph.. Pull;
- toes, Berb.
Unaoieldineu ( Ungeleokheit ). Imees,
preventiq to cower• Coloc. Grapl..
Varicu, Ars. Calc.e.Carb.v. Ferr.Graph.
Lye. PUZ.. Sulph. Zinc.
- rending, SulpiL ao.
- ll&raining, Graph.
Vrint distended, legs, Sulpb.
Vibratiag IJen8. legs, Amb. Berb.
- swo~ knee-hcillow, Berb.
VoluptuotU tickling, on the IOie after
scratching, SiL
Walkin.t', late aod with diffieult1, in
ehiltfren, Bell. Calc.c. Sil. Sulpb.
- awkward, Sabad. Sil. Vera&. ,
- difficult, Cinch. Oleand, Tereb.
- infinn,Cauat. Mgn.e.OL Phoe.Sod.c.
8ulpb.
- tottering, Aeon. Aman. CtJRn. Caust.
Jod. LaCt. Mar. Mur.". Nuxv. Phos.
ae. Rut. Sec. Sod. clal. Stram. SulpA.
Tox. Verat. Verb. (COUlP. Totteriag.)
- almost on the ankle £roin incliDatioll
of the foot-joint, Bruc.
Wart., toes, Spig. ·
Weakneu, L ex., Awt111. tn. AMc. Cincla.
Dig. Nu:e v. Oleand. Ol. Op. Phoe.
RhOd. &c. Sulpla. Thuy.
- hiP~! Cinch.
- !}Ughs, Aeon. Ars. Cincla. Croe. Guaj.
Hydr. MW'. ac. Oleand. Plat. Rut.
Staph.
- knees, Anae. Ant. tart. Ara. Aur.
Cinch. Ferr. Led. Moach. Nitr. ac.
Nux v. Petr. Phoe. Plat. Rut. Sabad.
· Staph. Sulph. Sulpb. ac. . '
Weakne81,-legs, Aman. EU4Jla. Hydr.
Oleand. Pot.nitr. Rut. Staph. Vlil.
- feet, Cincl. OletmL Ol. Puis. Tab.
Zinc.
- in the morning in bed, Ant.tart.
- when ascending steps, Thuy. •
- when ri!ling: frOm sitting, Rut.
- while standing, Aman.
- on walking aDd shtiDg, Led.
- after a walk, Mosch. Pot. oitr.
W!WAt,l!eDL at; lee heavinees.
White leg (Oldema puerperarum), Ars.
BelL Bry. Calc.c.Cham.Cinch.Hydr.
Lye. Nuxv. Pnls. Sulpb. Tox. Verat.
White ftiJeUing*) .(tumor albus articulo-
rum), see fuDJUS. ,
WrencAiag, spraming p. (Verrenkungs-,
...._ Ve1'8tauehungs-SC1Unerz), Lex., Arn.
Carb.v. CausL Oleand. Sod.chi. Tox.
- hips, Amm. IlL Arg. Bar. e. Calc. e.
CGUit. Euph. Nitr. ae. Phot. Rhod.
Sen. &d. chl. Sulph.
- knees, Calc. e. Caust. Phoe. Rhod.
Sod.ehL
- feet, Ang. Bar.e.Bry.Calc.e. Carb.T.
Caust. Vyc. Drot•.Ferr. mago. Phoe.
Sod. ehL Sulpb. Toz..Val. Zinc.
- toes, Amm.c. Zinc.
Condition~:
In the morniag, ~ CaWIL
- ~ Amoi.e. Ferr.magn.
- thighs,Amm.c. Aur.Ca:us&. VioLme.
- knees,· Ant.tart.
In the evening, pain, Lye.
- hiP~! Ferr. Val. ·
- thighs, AW'. Ferr.
- luUles, Lye.
- legs, Hydr. sulph. rub. Lye.
- feet, LJC· Sil.
- foot-jomt, Sod. e.
- sole8, M~Sn. m. Sil.
At !!~Tat, pam, Calc.e. Cham. Hytlr. Lye.
Mgn. s. Sulpla.
- bones, Hydr. Pot. e.
- hips, Bell. Fen. Ferr. magn. Hydr.
Pot.e.Sod.s.
- thighs, Eupb. Ferr. Hydr.
- knees, Hyclr. Lr,c. Zinc.
- le~ Amm.m. Croc. L1e. Spoug.
- shms, Phoe.ac.
- calves, Anac. Lye. Sabad.
- tendo achillis, Mur. ae.
- feet, Cham. LJe. Phoe. Pot. c. SiL
Spong.
- soles, Sil.
- toes, Amm. c. Led. Plat.Pot.e. Sod.c.
*) Ia seYeral iaetaaee1 ••i• territ. ie aMcl ia the texc for ''white le1;· ltu& it_ will be readily dietiac•
uiohed hrtlle woru "or tile &hi''•" wMo• alwayo are connect.,. wi&h.
Digitized by Coogle
'
' .
600 34. Lower extremities.
When a~ceftding steps,pain·hiPs, Plumb.
Tox. · ·
- knees, Alum. Pl1imb.
- foot-joint; Plumb. · . ·
When bending pain, knees, sp;g.
When cowering, pain knee, Calc. c. ··..
When cr01ring the legs, pain thigh,Dig.
- calf, Dig. Val .
When ducending steps, pairiknee,Verat.
- calt; Arg. · · ·
After ezertion, pain legs, Ign. ·
In lying, pain wps; Coloc. Plumb. ·
After lying, pain hips and thighs, Aeon.
Dori~ mealB, p. hips and legs, Phos. ac.
When moving the part, p., bones, Hydr.
.,.... hi~ Hydr. N~v. &d.•. Sulpb.
- thighs, Cocc. Hydr. Spig.
- knees, Hydr. Rhm.
- legs, Aeon. Cqlch.
- feet, Aeon. Bry. Puis. Th11y.
- foot-joint, Arn.
- soles, Puls.
- toes, Amm. c. Thuy. ·
By motion pain increased, Bry. Nuxv.
- - relieved, Aman. • ·
When r.siring the foot, .
pain rreventing
flexion, Herb. · ·
In rut, Jl!in, Cupr. Euplm.
- hiJlS! Ferr. Tos. ·
- thighs, Feri'•.
- legs, Coloc. .
- calt; Amm. c. Cupr.
- soles, Coloc. ·.
By rut J.>ain increased, RW. '
When nsing from sitting, p. hips, Phoe.
. ac. Sod.e. T'Oz. ' · ; ·
- thighs, Nitr. ac. Phoe. ac.
- knees, Nux.v.
- heels and soles, Gnph. ·
In ritting, p., Aman. Cham.Jod. Phoe.ac.
- buttocks, Calc.s. Phoe. Sep. Sulpb.
- hi1H'! Phosl ac. · · ·
- thighs, Guaj. Sep.
- knees, Calc. c.
- legs, Amm. c. . ·
..... heeJa, vaL .
- feet, Alum. Sod.c. VaL ·
After ritti~, pain knees, Con.
In •leep; pam toea,. Led. . ' . ·
After •leep, pain hips and thighs, Aeon.
In •tanding, pain .~ees, Calc.c.
- calf, Euplir. : • .
- wee, Sod. chi. ' . ; ..
..:·
When •tepping out, s!iflgirig pain, Berb.
When •toopi'(llf, pain hips, Sod. •·
When •tretchtng out,·pain hips and legs,
Rut. ·
- ridge of the foot, Bry. · l
When touched, pain, Oincl. Rnt.
- bolaes and sinews, Berb;.. •
- hips, Rut. · ,
- legs, Aeon.
- feet, Aeon. Bry, Cinch.
·- anklee, Sod. chi.
- ridge of. the foot and soles, Puts.
- toes, eiDih. Phos. ac.-
By touch mer. pain, BeU. Bry. Nux v.
Plat. : .. · ~ ·
When treading :.On the grouod (eomp•
when walking';, pain hips,Asil.r.Pot.c.
Sabin. Tox. · . ·
- thighs, Asar. .
- knees, Con. • · •
- feet, Bry. Caust. Thuy. · ·
- foot-joint, Bry. Si. Sod. cbl. Tox.
- heel, Nitr. ac. ·
- ·solee, Bry. Sod. c. Sulph.
- toes, Bry. Led. Thuy.
After vezation pain legs, Sep.
When IDfllking, pain hips, Ama~. Arg.
Asar. Coloc. Dros. Phos. ac. Sol m. ·
- thi~hs, Asar. Dros. Guaj. Phos. ac.
Spig. Staph. .
- knees, Ant. tart. Bry. Caps. Euphr.
- legs, Ign. Tab. ;
- calves, Alum. Anac. Caps. Ign. Mur.
ac. Nu.1 v. Sulph. Zinc.
- tendo achillis, Euphr. Mur. ac. .
- feet, Agn. Ant. tart. Caust. Sod.c.
-foot-jmn~Dro. .
-:- heel, Berb.
...:.. aQies; Amb. Bar. e. Cauat. Ign. Led. !
Lye. . .
- toes, Agn. ·Ars. Campb. Caust. Cye.
Sod. chi.- 1
- under the nails, Camph.
When walking, on ston~pavemen~ pain
. soles, Ant.& ·
After IDfllking, ~n knees, VaL
- - as if palsied, Berb.
- calf, AmJn•.,m.
By !Dalking incr.·p., Ant.& Arn. Petr.
- relieved, Amm. c.
Warmt/,, sens. of, soles, Berb.
In the'warmth ofthe bed, p. Iegs, SulpJa. ·
;,... relievecl,.Amm. c. •
Digitized by Coogle
- • .ii
/ :,_ 0 . ( ,..
- tf /, ' ' • .
•., I ~· /
-~
o;g,t,zed by Coogle
