{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__lee___animal_magnetism_and_homoeopathy.pdf","mytitle":"Animal Magnetism And Homoeopathy","mylang":"de"}
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
HOMGEOPATHY.
BY
EDWIN LE E, M.R.C.S.
connxsrounma nummm or 'run socnrrn uxn1cAu: D'EMULA-
non; or 'mx unolco-cumvnoxcu. socnnv or BERLIN, &c.
Aurnon or A
"
'mx.n'1sx ON soul Nnvovs Dlson.nxns;" 'run
"WATERING Pucxs AND MINERAL SPRINGS or 'mx
coN1'1NEN1'," &c.
gzmnh iibition. cnnsilnrablp iulatgzh.
WITH NOTES ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE INFLUENCE
OF THE MIND ON THE BODY.
n
.......suchsm§'
As dreams are made
þÿof."-Tsurnkg-Q;¬'?f_i_%;?C2>
/~
'
"'7"~|'
/,''
LONDON: '?.5f`§§
WHITTAKER & CO., AVE-MARIA-LANE.
1838.
4/2..
Works by the same Author.
OBSERVATIONS on the PRINCIPAL MEDI-
CAL INSTITUTIONS and PRACTICE of FRANCE,
ITALY, and GERMANY: with Notices of the Universi-
ties, Cases from Hos ital Practice, and an
Appendix on
Animal Magnetism and)Hommopathy. Price 61. Churchill,
Princes-street.
"
Ifouvrage de M. Lee mérite une attention particuliére:
son
llvre peut étre ln avec un interet egal par les médecins du
contment et les médecius Anglais."
"
L'ouvrage de M. Lee est écrit avec plus d'independance
et de justice, qu'on n'en trouve ordinairement. Ses observa-
tions comparées sont presque toujours justes font et fout autant,
d'honneur a son savoir qu'i son
jugement."-Revue Medico-
Chimrgicalc Anglaise.
"This is a
very useful volume, and contains much valuable
information."-Dublin Jvurnalqf Medical Science.
"
Of the highest value, combining, as it does, so much of the
utils with the dulce. so many facts with so concise a manner of
announcing them."
"
We cordially recommend it to the profession."-London
Med.. and Surgical Journal.
"
We are much deceived if it fail to interest most of those
who look through it."
"
The author has visited almost all the
principal
seats of learn-
ing and medical science in France, Italy, an
Germany; and
the account which he gives of them is so sketchy and animated,
that the chief fault to be found with it, perhaps, is, that it does
not present us with details more copious."-Medical Gazette.
"The contents of this volume are
justly described in the
preface as presenting an impartial and not inaccurate sketch of
the actual state of medical practice in France and Italy, with
some notes on the German institutions, less copious, but cal-
culated to convey some idea of the state of practice."_Lanc¢t.
"
Mr. Lee's account of the stake of medical practice in
France is succinct and interesting."--British and Foreign 1lI¢-
dical Review.
"
This is to all classes an interesting work, and to the mem-
bers of the medical rofession we should think a
necessary one.
Altogether, this volume is a
public service."-Metropolitan
Magazine.
"
Un resumé statistique fort intéressant des principaux
établissemens médicaux du continent."-Gazette Medicale dc
Paris.
"
This sketch ofthe state of medical and surgical practice in
Works by the same Author(
France, Italy, and Germany, is the result of the personal ob-
servation of the author during a
temporary residence at differ-
ent periods in those countries. The succinct account of some
of the principal medical institutions, and the pertinent remarks
on continental practice, hear the stamp of accuracy and impar-
tiality, and convey much useful information to the profession."
-Quarterly Journal qf Science.
CO UP D'(EIL sur les HOPITAUX de LON-
DRES,et sur l'Etat actuel de la Médicine et de la Chirurgie
en
Angleterre. J. B. Bailliére. Paris, and Regent-street..
Price ls. 6d.
"
Mr. Edwin Lee a parcouru, en médecin observateur,
l'Italie, l'Allemagne,et la France, et il a fait suivre ses voyages
d'une intéressante publication sur la pratique etles institutions
médicales de ces diverses contrées. Il complet aujourd'hui
son ozuvre en nous donnant l'histoire de 1`état actuel de la mé~
decine dans son pays. Elle est une peu courte, et l'on y dési-
reroit de plus longs details. Telle qu'elle est, cependant, elle
sem recherchée avec curiosité et intérét par un grand nombre
de lecteurs."-Revue Medicale.
"
Mr. Lee has visited the principal medical institutions of
the continent, and has there had an
opportunity of observing
the general ignorance which prevails with respect to the state
ot' the hospitals in this country; and, with the view of con-
tributing to remove this, has given a short sketch of the metro-
politau institutions of England, which he has very
properly
written in the French language, and published abroad. t is,
we believe, the only effort made to enlighten our neighbours
on the subject, which has been made since the work of M.
Roux, which has_ been rendered obsoletecby the numerous
changes which have since occurred."-Medical Gazette.
"
Nous ne terminerons pas cette courte notice sans féliciter
M. Lee de la tentative qu'il a faite. Nous souhaitons méme
qn'il trouve des imitateurs, non seulement dans son propre
pays, mais en France meme."-Gazette Medicale.
NOTES on ITALY and RHENISH GERMANY.
Price 5s. Whittaker, London; Laing and Forbes, Edin-
burgh.
"
Mr. Lee deserves-the thanks of the community forthe
valuable information with which he has furnished them in his
small unpretending volume,which contains professional notices
of the climates of Nice, Pisa, Florence, Rome, and Naples,
and of the Mineral Springs of Baden, Wishaden, Schwalbach,
Ems, and Aix-la-Chapelle."-Edinburgh Advertiser. ;
_.
An ACCOUNT of the MOST FREQUENTED
WATERING-PLACES on the CONTINENT, and of the
Medicinal Application of the Mineral Springs.
Longman and Co. Price 7s. 6d.
"Ce nouvel ouvrage de M. Lee n'eet point indigne de ceux
qu'il a
publiés deja, et se recommends nom senlement aux com-
patriotes de l'auteur, mais encore 5 tous ceux
auquels la litté-
rature Anglaise est familiére, par la elarté, lelegance et
la concisiou du style, par des details locaux dont on ne con-
noit toute l'importance que quand on a été i méme d'en pro-
fiter, et par quelques considerations générales sur les eaux
minerales, leurs proprietés, et la maniere de les emplo er, qui
font de cet ouvrage l'nn des plus complete et 6. la fois iles plus
gortatifs qui existent sur les eaux minerales."-Gazette Mé-
'cale.
"
This constitutes by far the best account to which the
English invalid or physician can turn for infomation regarding
the continental watering-planes. Mr. Lee has visited most
of the watering-places on the Continent, and viewed their
several peculiarities with an inquiring and intelligent eye."-
Medical Gazette.
"
This is a little volume which cannot fail to be of the
highest utility to the invalid, as it comprises within narrow
limits a fund of infomation respecting the elfects of the vari-
ous waters resorted to by the English. Mr. Lee has himself
visited and examined most of the springs upon which he treats,
thus giving the best guarantee of the correctness of his opi-
nions."-London and Paris Observer.
`
"
The work before ns is certainly the most compendious one
of the kind which we now possess, with the advantage that it
is the most recent, and that the author has himself visited the
places described, and observed the effects of the waters. If
we were inclined to End fault, it would be with the brevity of
the reports."-MediumChirurg. Review.
'*
This little work cannot fail to be serviceable to invalids
who travel abroad, and will likewise be useful as a convenient
remembrancer to physicians in this country."-British and
Foreign Medical Review.
LONDON 2
PRINTED BY IBOTSON AND PALMER, SAVOY STREET.
PREFACE.
MY attention having been more
especially di-
rected to the practical part of the profession,
an account of Animal Magnetism and Homeo-
pathy might have been more ably given by
others who had devoted more of their time to
their investigation. One could hardly, how-
ever, expect an
impartial examination from
the practisers of these methods, and those inte-
rested in upholding them; and as, in the course
of my continental travels and attendance on
the hospitals of various countries within the
last seven or
eight years, these subjects could
not fail to be repeatedly brought under my
notice, I considered that as
they were
beginning
to attract the attention of the British public
at the time when I published my
"
Observa-
tions on the Medical Institutions and Practice
of France, Italy, and Germany," it would be
doing a service to give a short exposition of
them, which I accordingly appended to that
work, and also published in a
separate form for
the advantage of non-professional persons who
took an interest in the inquiry. The favourable
manner in which this pamphlet was received,
iv ranracrz.
and the increased interest that has been of late
excited respecting Animal Magnetism, (on which
no work has been written in English by a me-
dical man in recent times,) have induced me to
publish a second edition, in which, although
more than twice the size of the original one,
the matter has been condensed within a small
compass; as it is my object, not to make a book
by the accumulation of extraordinary cases,
but in recording the investigations made by
various scientific bodies, and in public institu-
tions, to enable the public to form a correct
estimate of Animal Magnetism and Homoeo-
pathy, instead of being led away by the partial
statements of interested individuals, and by
exhibitions which, however calculated to strike
the majority of ordinary spectators with asto-
nishment, would occasion but little surprise in
those accustomed to witness the phenomena
which frequently occur in the course of diseases,
especially of a nervous character, who alone are
capable of justly appreciating the experiments,
and to whose judgment alone they would have
been submitted, were they able to stand the
test of examination.
London, May 1838.
PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION.
MANY persons talk about Animal Magnetism and
Homaaopathy, who know little or
nothing about
them, except that they are somewhat allied to
the marvellous, and who are inclined, perhaps
on that account, to place a reliance on their
agency, which would be withheld, were it known
on what foundations rest their claims to belief.
It is my intention, in the following pages, to
present a brief exposition of these subjects, com-
prising some account of the experiments insti-
tuted by medical bodies and individuals, in order
to exhibit to the public the manner in which the
eifects ascribed to these agents were
produced;
from which it will be seen that their mode of
operation is very analogous,-their supposed
action on the body being referable to the same
origin, viz. the influence exerted through the
medium of the imagination.
Although animal magnetism, which at one
time attracted so
large a share of attention, has
been in great measure
superseded by homceo-
pathy, which, however, is also rapidly passing
vi PREFACE T0 THE FIRST EDITION-
into disuse, even in those German towns where
it was most in request, and in Paris, since the
recent opinion pronounced upon it by the Aca-
démie Royale de Médecine, yet the relation of
the experiments and cases is interesting in a
phy-
siological point of view, as
tending to show the
manner in which some
changes take place,
which are often inexplicable to the physician, and
which the vulgar are
frequently apt to consider
as effects of miraculous agency. Moreover, as
attempts have been made to introduce homaeo-
pathy into this country, I have thought that
some account of it, in connexion with animal
magnetism, would form a not inappropriate
Appendix to a work on continental medical
practice, and would be acceptable to those who
feel interested in the matter.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
_ _
VARIOUS definitions of the nature of animal
magnetism have been proposed by those who
have treated upon this subject. The best is, per-
haps, that which considers it as
depending upon
a certain state of the nervous system, presenting
phenomena which may be caused in some
per-
sons
by the iniiuence of another individual per-
forming certain actions with the intention of
producing this state. This influence of the ner-
vous
power of one individual over another, was
supposed to bear some analogy with that of the
magnet uponiron: hence the term. Animal mag.
netism was introduced into France from Ger-
many, about the middle of the last century, by
an individual of the name of Mesmer, (from
whom the term 'mesmerism,' which has been
_ B
2 Axmar. MAGNETISM.
used synonymously with animal magnetism, is
derived,) who practised the art differently from
the magnetisers of more recent times. The
persons to be magnetised were assembled in a
room
dimly lighted with tapers, and placed in
a circle around a
(supposed magnetic) covered
vessel (baquet,) each person being connected
with the rest by means of- wires or cords."' The
music of a
harpsichord or
piano was heard from
an
adjoining apartment, while various ma-
noeuvres were
performed by assistants for the
space of an hour or two, when Mesmer him-
self entered with grave aspect, clothed in a
robe of light-coloured silk, and holding in his
hand a rod, which he directed to different parts
of the bodies of the magnetised, who did not
fail to experience various slight symptoms, as
heat, perspiration, muscular' twitchings, &c.,
which terminated by producing in many of
them a crisis, or convulsive attacks of an
hysterical nature. These effects were, as
may be supposed, most
generally produced in
females, and men of a nervous
temperament.
Where the convulsive actions were produced in
* "
De malades plus gais une docile troupe
De cordons entourés, et des fers sur le sein
En cercle euvironnoit le magique bassin."
DELILLE.
t
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 3
one, the others speedily became similarly aifected.
On many persons, however, the process produced
no effect ; among these were the commissioners
appointed by the Académie to report upon the
proceedings.
This practice was, during several years, in
high repute for the cure of various complaints,
and its originator having realised a handsome
fortune, was of¥`ered a
large sum of money to
induce him to remain in Parisi* After its exa-
mination, however, and condemnation in the
report of the Académie des Sciences and the
Acadéinie Royale de Médecine, _it lost much of
the consideration it had previously enjoyed, and
by degrees sank into comparative oblivion.
Some of Mesmer's disciples continued, how-
* "
The very mystery in which Mesmer enveloped his
treatment, tended to excite curiosity, while it withdrew
the attention from the active principle, and thus
caused him to be regarded, individually, as an extraor-
dinary personage, full of the old Egyptian wisdom,
and conversant with all the secret influences of nature.
This, while it extended his reputation, seemed to flatter
thevanity and mystical disposition of the man. His
house became crowded with patients of all ranks, and
from every quarter: and such was the extent and
success of his practice, that in the course of a short
time he is said to have amassed' a large f'ortune."--
Isis Revelata, an
Inquiry into Animal Magnetism, by
J. C. Colquhoun, Esq.
B2
4- ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ever, to use the magnetic baqueta and trees; they
also employed magnetised baths, recommended
the drinking magnetised water, the carrying
magnetised plates of glass on the stomach, and
in general their treatment was calculated to pro~
duce strong crises or convulsive actions, which
they considered as a remedial process of nature,
and accordingly used their endeavours to bring
them on
by artificial means. Certain rooms called
chambres des crises were fitted up for the pur-
pose; the walls and floors being covered with
mattresses and cushions, to prevent the pa-
tients, while in convulsions, from injuring them-
selves.
An establishment was also formed at Stras-
burg,-under the auspices of M. de Puysegur,
one of the most zealous advocates of magnetism,
which was called the Societé Harmzmique des
Amis Réumls. The chambres des crises were
abolished, and in consequence of the more
gentle treatment, the violent crises seldom
occurred, a state of partial sleep, or
ap-
proaching to somnamhulism, which was un-
known to Mesmer, being the most frequent
effects of this mode of magnetising; hence the
persons aH'ected have been since termed som-
nambulists.
About twenty years ago. public attention was
Amman .MAcNE'r1sm. _ 5
again drawn to the subject; several works were
published, some
physicians of professional and
scientific attainments declared themselves_ be-
lievers in the powers of animal magnetism, and
numerous
experiments were made relating to the
state of sleep or somnambulism, the phenomenon
most frequently observed. This state is said to
be induced in susceptible individuals by certain
movements of the magnetiser's hands, termed
"
passes," which are madein the following man-
ner; the spectators present being required to
maintain the strictest silence. The magnetiser,
seated or
standing before the person to be mag-
netised, places his hands for a minute or two on
the hands of the person-then _on the shoulders,
whence he brings them down, slightly touching
the arms, to the fingers; this is repeated a few
times. He then brings his hands from the head,
an inch or two distant from the person's body,
down to the stomach, or lower, occasionally plac.
ing a hand on the vertex, or on the epigastrium.
In many cases, however, the gradual movements
of the hand before the faceare sufiicient ; these.
or similar movements are continued during the
greater 'part of the sitting, and are sometimes
varied by transverse
"
passes" made across the
face and breasts at the distance of an inch or
two, with greater or less rapidity.
6 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
In the magnetic somnambulism the individu~
als are said (as in natural somnambulism) to be
insensible to external stimuli, as noises of all
kinds, pungent substances applied to the nostrils,
pinching, pricking, or other mechanical irrita-
tion of the skin; but at the same time to be
able to hear when spoken to by the magnetiser,
or
by persons placed by him in connexion (en
rapport) with them, to answer his questions and
to
perform various actions ordered by him.
These are, however, according to the magnetisers,
merely the more common effects, and the pre-
cursors of much more wonderful phenomena,
as transference of the senses, clairvoyance, or
mental vision, in which, though the eyes be
closed and bandaged, objects are seen by the
sonmambulist, either when held before his face
or when placed in contact with the epigastrium,
occiput, or other parts; the power of predicting
events; of ascertaining the nature of diseases,
and prescribing their appropriate remedies; of
knowing what is taking place at the moment in
distant parts of the world, &c.
One magnetiser, speaking of the wonders of
magnetism before theAcadémie, says in reference
to the absolute power of the magnetiser over the
sornnambulist-" If cold, you can warm him, if
warm, cool him ; you blow away his pains, and
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 7
his pains vanish; you change his tears to laugh-
ter, his sorrows to joy. Are his country, his
friends absent? you cause him to see them with-
out seeing them yourself. You can blunt his
sensibility if he have to undergo any cruel ope-
ration. You transform water into any liquid he
desires, or which you deem useful to him--y0ll
present an
empty glass, he drinks,the movements
of deglutition are
performed and thirst is ap-
peased-with nothing I have calmed his hun-
ger, with nothing I have served him up splendid
dinners," &c. &c."
At length, in' 1825, M. Foissac, a magnetiser,
proposed to the Académie de Médecine, to pro-
duce before it a somnambulist, in whom the mem-
bers of that body should witness the extraor-
dinary phenomena caused by animalmagnetism.
The proposition gave rise to violent debates,
which terminated in the appointment _of a com-
mittee which was required to give its opinion as
to whether the Académie ought or ought not to
take cognisance of the subject. The committee
decided in the affirmative on the following
grounds :-first, that the judgment pronounced
by the Académie in 1784 was not founded upon
reasons
sufficiently conclusive; and secondly,
'
Dict. de Médecine et Chirurgie pratique. Art.
Magnetisme.
8 ANIMAL uacmrrxsu.
that the magnetism now
proposed for examina-
tion, differed from the Mesmerian magnetism,
inasmuch as its effects were produced without
actual contact between the magnetiser and the
magnetised, and without using metallic rods,
magnetic chairs, and other similar means.
After strong opposition a commission was
appointed, composed of twelve members of the
Acaclémie, to examine into, and report upon,
the experiments to be instituted. The com-
mission pursued its investigation until 1831,
when it presented a
report to the Académie, con-
taining an
exposition of its labours, with the in-
ferences deduced from them, arranged under the
following heads.
`
1. The effects of magnetism are null in per-
sons in health, and in some invalids.
2. They are but little apparent in others.
3. They are often produced by ennui, mono-
tony, and the power of the imagination.
4. Lastly, they are developed independently
of these causes, very probably by the effect of
magnetism alone.
Thus after six years of inquiry, the commis-
sioners pronounced no decisive opinion in their
report, which, however, was not signed by three
of the most influential among them, MM.
Laennec, Double, and Magendie. The infer-
ANIMAL MAGNEUSM. 9
ences under. the three first heads, would have put
down altogether the pretensions of the magneti-
sers ; but in consequence of the statement under
the fourth head, and as the commissioners de
clared that every precaution had been taken to
prevent errors and deception, magnetism _ac-
quired in some measure the appearance of being
under the sanction of the Académie. An account
of the cases which were the subjects of the expe-
riments, was
published by M. Foissac; in ,look-
ing over these it will be seen that the cases which
come_ under the fourth head are
extremely few:
and in these instances, so far from_every precau-
tion having been taken, it appears that the com-
missioners trusted greatly to the honesty and
good faith of the magnetisers and the mag-
netised, between, whom there isthe strongest
evidence of the existence of a
previous under-
standing. _
_
The "
passes/`i or _movements above de-
scribed, are what the commissioners.saw made
onmost of the individuals subjected 1 to the
experiments. and without further proof im-
mediately accepted them as the causes of the
phenomena they afterwards witnessed, and as the
means by which the magnetic action was trans-
mitted; but as M. Dubois, who was
present at
several of the experiments, remarks in his criti-
B 5
l
10 Annan. MAGNETISM»
cal examination of the report,
"
there is no
doubt the commissioners saw the phenomena
they have described, but there is an enor-
mous diiference between the facts observed
and the conclusions drawn from them. They
believed the absurd, the miraculous, the
wonderful; yet the circumstances as
they oc-
curred, explain themselves rationally, either by
very ordinary physiological phenomena, or
by
well-known pathological laws, and sometimes by
trickery (supercherie. )"
During the long period the commissioners
were engaged in investigating the experiments
on the subject, though the more wonderful pheno-
mena had been talked of by the magnetisers as
of frequent occurrence, not more than two or
three exhibitions of the kind were made before
them, and even these failed, notwithstanding the
instructions the somnambulists must have pre-
viously received, as will be seen in the sequel.
The somnambulist proposed to be presented to
the Académie by M. Foissac, who, he stated,
would remove all doubt as to the power of mag-
netism, was the first person subjected to its ope-
ration before the commission. It appears, how-
ever, that no effect was produced in this instance,
for in the report the commissioners say, "We
must confess our
inexperience, our
impatience,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. I1
our mistrust, too strongly manifested perhaps, did
not permit us to observe any of the phenomena
of somnambulism."
Some cases are adduced in illustration of the
second and third heads, in the report, in which
the effects produced were attributable to ennui,
the power of the imagination, &`c., it being suffi-
cient to place the persons in situations in which
they believed themselves magnetised. This will,
however, readily be credited without my bring-
ing forward instances in proof, I shall there-
fore merely insert one or two of the shortest
among them.
Mademoiselle L. was magnetised eleven times
at the H6tel Dieu, within the period of a month.
At the fourth sitting, somnolency, convulsive
movements of the neck and face, with other
symptoms. At the eleventh sitting her magne-
tiser placed himself behind her without making
any signs, and without the intention of magne-
tising, yet she experienced more decided effects
than on the preceding trials.
An hysterical girl was
magnetised several
times: at each time there occurred somnolency
with strong convulsive actions. Being placed
one
day in the same chair, in the same
place, at
the same hour, and in presence of the same
per-
sons, the accustomed phenomena presented
12 ANIMAL uacnnrlsm.
themselves, though her magnetiser was absent.
A like experiment was made on an
epileptic
patient and produced a similar result.
According to the magnetisers, the action of
passes is not always necessary to produce mag-
netic eifects, which may frequently be induced
by the sole will of themagnetiser, even if he
be in a room
separate from the individual on
whom the experiment is made. This supposed
influence of the will on the magnetised, was,
however, never
produced at the first sittings, but
only after the person had been repeatedly mag-
netised in the ordinary manner. The symptoms
which then took place may consequently be attri-
buted, as in the cases above stated, merely to
the effect of habit in individuals on whom the
same circumstances of position, time, locality,
&c. had repeatedly operated.
The following are some of the cases from
which the commissioners inferred that the phe-
nomena were produced by the action of magne-
tism alone.
A girl aged sixteen magnetised eight times.
Somnambulism is induced at the iirst sitting.
When spoken to, she does not answer, and the
noise of a
heavy shutter falling does not awaken
her. At the second sitting, she answers by affir-
mative and negative signs. At the third sitting,
ANIMAL Macnzrisu. 13
she signifies that she. will speak presently: she
does not feel when the skin is pinched, and does
not appear to be affected by a
phial of ammonia
held to the nostrils.
The next case does not answer the expecta-
tion of the magnetisers.
In a Madame C., living in the same house as
the magnetiser, it was
proposed to exhibit the
mental power possessed by the magnetiser over
the magnetised, as also the communication of
thoughts between them, without the interven-
tion of speech or
gesture; the proposal was ac-
cepted by the commissioners, who repaired to the
house, and on somnambulism being produced,
gavedirections in writing to the magnetiser, in-
dicating the actions they desired to see
per-
formed, which were to be signified mentally to
the somnambulist. Thus, she is first ordered to
go and sit on a stool before the piano; she rises
and looks at the clock; on
being apprised of her
mistake, she goes into another room, and on be-
ing again informed of her error she sits down on
her former seat. She is next requested to raise
her hand at the same time as her magnetiser, and
to lower it at the same time; the two hands are
raised simultaneously, but that of Madame C. is
lowered in a few minutes. The back of a watch
is presented to her; she mistakes the hour, and
14- ANIMAL Haan:-:rrsu
the number of the hands; she is told to rub her
forehead, but she merely extends her hand.
The result of this, and some other cases, ren-
dered the commissioners doubtful of the effect
of animal magnetism, and not without suspicion
of a
previous understanding between the magne-
tisers and the somnambulists. A M. Dupotet*
otlered to solve their doubts, and engaged to pro-
duce at will, out of the sight of the somnambu-
list, convulsive movements in any part of the
body, by the mere action of pointing towards
the part in which the commissioners should de-
sire to witness these effects. A man who had
already been 'magnetised several times was som-
nambulised, and after some trials on his obedi-
ence, M. Dupotet announced that the commis-
sioners might produce in him any effects that
they pleased.
*'
It is not unusual for persons who are liable to be
confounded with others of the same name, to subjoiu
by way of distinction, that of their native town or
village, as Beclard (d'Angers.) M. Dupotet's nameis
by no means a common one, and therefore any such
distinction is needless, unless knowing the importance
attached by the English to high sounding names, he
preferred, on arriving in London, instead of announcing
himself as M. Dupotet from Sennevoy, the more
aristocratic appellation of the Baron Dupotet de
ennevoy.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM- 15
M. Marc, one of' the commissioners, accord-
ingly placed himself behind the somnambulist,
and made sign to M. Dupotet to produce move-
ments in the forefinger of his right hand, and
afterwards in the toes; the somnambulist made
some movements, but not in the parts indicated ;
similar movements subsequently occurred with-
out magnetisation, and the experiment was de-
clared inconclusive.
The next experiment which I shall relate, was
made to exhibit before the commissioners the
faculty of mental vision,or sight with closed eye-
lids, on a M. Petit, in whom the results of pre-
vious trials had been ve-ry satisfactory to the mag-
netisers. Somnambulism having been induced,
M. Petit was
requested to select a
piece of money
from others held in the hand of the magnetiser;
this was done, the coin was marked and mixed with
twelve others, and the somnambulist was desired
to point out the one he had selected; he how-
ever took the wrong one. A watch was
pre-
sented to him, he mistook the hour. Other
objects were also presented, but he could never
discover immediately what 'they were; he took
them in his hands, felt and turned them over,
brought them near his eyes, and after all, gene-
rally guessed wrong; he was able to read a few
lines, while the commissioners watched that his
16 ANIMAL MAGNE'.l'lSM»
'
eyelids were closed. There is no doubt, how-
ever, that the eyes were
partially opened, as he
could not distinguish anything, when a
bandage
was
placed before them. Although clairfvoyamre
had been talked of by the magnetisers as a
very
common
phenomenon of magnetism, it was only
exhibited two or three times before the commis-
sioners during a
period of six years, and the rel
sults were similar to those above-mentioned.
The following cases are
given, as cures
per-
formed by magnetism. »_
A law student, labouringunder a
paralytic
affection of the limbs, was treated by the usual
means at La Charité, and at the expiration of
five months was so far recovered as to be able
to get about on crutches. In this state he was
magnetised by M. Foissac. In the ninth sit-
ting complete somnumbulism was induced; he
answered questions, spoke of his disease, an,
nounced that in a month he should be able to
walk about without crutches, and prescribed
for himself nux vomica, ssinapisms, and baths of
Baréges water; these being the remedies from
which he had already derived advantage. On
the day he had named, the commission repaired
to La Charité, anxious to see whether his pre-
diction would be fulhlled. On being somnam-
oulised, the patient declared that when he
ANIMAL MAGNE'l'ISM» 17
awoke he should return to his bed without
crutches or other. support. When awakened,
he asked for his crutches, but was answered that
he did not require them: he arose, traversed
the courts, walked up stairs, and from that day
he has never used the crutches. In ,subsequent
trials he presented the phenomena of clairvoy-
ance as
completely as M. Petit.
The next case was at the time matter of great
astonishment, as
illustrating the extraordinary
power of magnetism.
A lady laboured under a nervous disease,
which had resisted all the efforts directed against
it; she at length became impressed with the
idea that magnetism alone could cure her, and
was accordingly magnetised by M. Chapelain.
"
One day she went to M. Chapelain, support-
ing herself with difficulty on crutches; it was
pitiable to see her suffer. Armed with a bene-
volent will, M. Chapelain by magnetism dis-
persed the pains in the limbs, the sighings and
gloomy thoughts with which she was affected,
and restored tranquillity to this person, so
cruelly agitated an instant before. '
Are you
well P' he inquired.
'
0 yes, sir, 1 thank you.'
She slept for about two hours, and on
asvaking
walked away, carrying the crutches which had
supported her on her arrival !"
18 ANIMAL uacxarism.
In the first of these cases it is pretty evident
that the patient was
already convalescent at the
time the magnetic trials were made, and could
most probably have t
walked without crutches,
had he so chosen, as well at the expiration of a
week as of a month. The second is one of
those cases which frequently puzzles the prac-
titioner,-of the nature of which I have offered
an explanation in my work on nervous dis-
orders, requiring for their cure an exertion of
the faculty of volition, which is frequently in-
duced by strong moral impressions. I have re-
lated one or two analogous cases suddenly cured
in this way, and capable of rational explanation,
without the intervention of magnetism or
super-
natural agency.
I subjoin one more of the cases brought for-
ward in proof of magnetic influence.
A journeyman carpenter, aged twenty, sub-
ject to epileptic attacks, was
mugnetised at the
hospital of La Charité. Somnambulism was
not, however, induced till after several sittings.
The patient at length announced, that on a cer-
tain day, at a certain hour, he would have an
attack. It accordingly took place at the time
he had specified. VVhen interrogated, while in
somnambulism, respecting his disease, he de-
clared that at the end of a
year the attacks
ANIMAL MAGN|:'r1sM. I9
would cease; he also mentioned the exact time
at which the two following attacks would take
place. These occurred at the time he predicted,
and the fact of his cure only remained to be
proved; but before the expiration of the year,
he was run over
by a cabriolet and killed; a
circumstance which magnetism did not enable
him to foresee. i
The profession will not form any very exalted
opinion of the intelligence of the commissioners
from the relation of these cases as illustrations
of the effects produced solely by the power of
magnetism. Those who have seen much of
nervous diseases, are well aware
analogous cases
to that of the lady above-mentioned often spon-
taneously recover, especially after the occur-
rence of any circumstance which forcibly strikes
their imagination; and the fits of epilepsy are
also frequently produced or
suspended by a
similar iniiuence : this is also one of the diseases
most easily feigned; hence there would be no
diiliculty in predicting the period of an attack.
But had the individuals been able .to foretel
the occurrence of diseases which cannot be
simulated, or which are less influenced by the
mind-as intermittents or
inflammatory affec-
tions-the commissioners might with reason have
adduced such instances in proof of the magnetic
20
power.
which
nates,
of M.
report.
Cimcbmiom gf the Report.
1. Contact of thumbs and
movements, termed panes, are
the means of relationship em-
ployed to transmit magnetic
action from the magnetiser to
the rnagnetised.
2. Magnetism acts on per-
sons of different age and sex.
3. Many eifects appear to
depend on magnetism alone,
and are not re-produced with-
out it.
4. The effects produced by
magnetism are varied: it agi-
tates some, calms others; it
generally causes acceleration
of the pulse and respiration,
slight convulsive movements,
somnolency, and, in a few
cases, what is called somnam-
bulism.
ANIMAL HAGNETISIL
I shall here insert the conclusions with
the_ report _of' the commissioners termi-
in juxtaposition with the conclusions
Dubois, in hiscritical exposition of the
Rational Conclusions. A
1. The pause are means em-
ployed to transmit a
pretended
action to the mag-netised.
2. Magnetism does not act
on
any persons, whatever be
the age or sex.
8: We have not seen
any
effects that could be attributed
to magnetism: the pheno-
mena observed depend on
other causes.
4. There is no proof that
the agitation or calmness of
the individuals, any more than
the other circumstances, are
produced by magnetism.
ANIMAL uacnerxsu. 21
Conclusions of the Report.
~
5. The existence of pecu-
liar characters, proper to re-
cognise in all cases the reality
of a state of somnambulism,
has not been proved.
6. It may, however, be in-
ferred with certainty that this
state exists when it gives rise
to the developement- of new
faculties, as
clairvoyanee and
intuitive foresight: or when
it produces great changes in
the physiological condition of
the individual, as insensibility,
sudden increase of strength;
as this efect cannot be attri-
buted to any other cause.
7. When the efects of mag-
netism havo been produced,
there is no occasion, on sub-
sequent trials, tobhave re-
course to the passes. The look
of the magnetiser, his will
alone, have the same inilu-
ence.
8. Changes, more or less
remarkable, are efected in the
perceptions and faculties of
persons in whom somnambu-
lism has been induced.
'
Rational Conclusions.
.
5. Ditto, ditto.
6. It has been impossibl
for us to come to the conclu-
sion that this state was real;
even when it gave rise to the
above-mentioned phenomena,
and produced insensibility and
other physiological changes,
inasmuch as these effects may
be referred to other causes.
7. It has not been demon-
strated that passes have really
produced any phenomena, still
less that the look or will of the
magnetiser has had this inliu-
ence. _
8. These changes in the per-
ceptions and faculties, which
appeared to he eB`ectcd in
somnambulists, may be refer-
red to other causes than mag-
netism.
22 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Conclusions of the Report.
9. We have seen two som-
nambulists distinguish, with
closed eyes, objects placed be-
fore them. They have read
words, estimated the ditfer-
ence of colours, the points on
cards, &c.
10. In two somnambulists,
we have met with the faculty
of foreseeing acts of the or-
ganism to take place at periods
more or less distinct. One
announced the day, hour, and
minute of the invasion and
recurrence of an epileptic at~
tack: the other foresaw the
period of his cure. Their an-
ticipations were realised.
11. We have only seen in
one instance a somnambulist,
who has described the symp-
toms of the diseases in three
individuals presented to her.
Rational Conclusions.
9. We have seen two som-
uambulists, capable, as it was
said, of reading, &c. with
closed eyes, but it has not
been proved to our satisfac-
tion that the edges of the eye-
lids were at all times in im-
mediate contact.
10. We have seen two som-
nambulists capable, hs it was
said, of foreseeing acts of the
organism; but one predicted
attacks of a disease that may
be simulated; the other an-
nounced the period of his cure
when already in full conva-
lescence.
11. We have seen a som-
namhulist endowed, it was
said, with the faculty of ascer-
taining the disease under
which persons presented to
her laboured; but in the first
case, she only mentioned in-
significant symptoms: in the
other two cases, all the cir-
cumstances show that she had
received her information be-
forehand.
nmmnt. MAGNLTISM. 23
Conclusions of the Report.
12. In order to establish
justly the relations of mag-
netism with therapeutics, one
must have observed the effects
on a number of individuals,
and have made many experi-
ments on sick persons. This
not having been done, the
commissioners can only say,
they have seen too_ few cases
to enable them to give a deci-
sive opinion.
13. Considered as an agent
of physiological phenomena,
or of therapeutics, magnetism
should find a
place in the cir-
cle of medical science, and,
consequently, should be either
practised, or its employment
superintended by a physician.
14. The commission could
not verify, because it had not
opportunities, the existence of
any other faculties in somnam-
bulists; but it communicates,
in its report, facts sutiiciently
important to state, that in its
opinion, the Académie ought
Rational Conclusions.
12. There are no relations to
be established between mag'-
netism and therapeutics, be-
cause the pretended magne-
tic elfects have been absc-
tutely null: and it is not from
the small number of cases,
buton account of thuirnullity,
that the commissioners cannot
determine.
13. Magnetism cannot be
considered as an
agent of phy-
siological phenomena, still less
as a
therapeutic measure:,it,
consequently, ought not to
have a place in the
medical knowledge,
from recommending its ern-
circle of
and, far
ployment, physicians ought to
oppose themselves to the
charlatanism which seeks to
spread it abroad.
14-. The commission could
not perceive, because it had no
opportunity, so many other fn-
culties said to exist in som-
nambulists; but it communi-
cates facts, important enough
to determine the Acaflémie to
abstain from encouraging re-
24 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Conclusions qf the Report. Rational Camclusiom.
to encourage researches on searches on
magnetism, as it
animal msgnetismasa curious could not constitute, as some
branch of psychology and na- believe, a curious brunch of
tural history. psychology and natural his-
tory.
Thus it appears, that while the commissioners
admit that the higher order of phenomena, as
clairvoyance, intuitive foresight, Src., may be the
occasional results of magnetic somnambulism,
M. Dubois, on the other hand, not only denies
that any such effects are
produced-in which
he is borne out by the examination of the cases
on which the commissioners formed their opi-
nions, and also by the subsequent discovery of
trickery on the part of the magnetisers or of
the magnetised-but also that the state approach-
ing to partial or total sleep, or somnambulism,
depends upon any influence transmitted from
the magnetiser. That the somnolency, or
perfect
sleep, which is the effect most frequently
observed on individuals affected by the mag-
netisation, is, in the first instance, dependent
upon the process, is pretty evident; but
whether it results from the ennui of con-
tinued monotonous actions and other similar
causes, is a
point upon which the opinion
of those who have given their attention to
the subject are divided. From the length of
ANIMAL uacnsrzsm. '25
time generally required at the first sitting to
produce sleep, and from this state
occurring on
subsequent occasions, in the same
persons, with-
out magnetisation, but on whom the circum-
stances of similar time, place, and supposed
magnetisation have operated, it would appear,
that the above-mentioned causes are suilicient to
account for its occurrence in the majority of in-
stances. In some cases, however, the difference
between this condition and ordinary sleep, is
somewhat too marked to admit of its being
ascribed exclusively to them. With respect
to the rapport said to exists between the som-
nambulist and the magnetiser, by which the
former can
answer questions and perform actions
ordered by him, there is no doubt that in many
of the cases, there has been a
previousunderstand-
ing between the parties, as I shall have to show
further on; that in others the somnambulist has
been in the state of partial sleep, which is not
uncommon in nervous and hysterical cases, in
which the patients, although unaffected by loud
noises, can yet answer
questions relating to
matters on which their thoughts have been much
occupied._ That a
person in this state should
be insensible to common sounds, pinching, and
other external stimulants, is not to be wondered
at, when we consider that the same thing is con-
c
26 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
stantly seen in reverie, abstraction of mind, or
when the attention is strongly pre-occupied.
Cabanis says, in allusion to this subject,
"
We
know with certainty, that the attention directly
modifies the local condition of organs, as with-
out it the most serious lesions frequently occa-
sion neither the pain nor the inflammation
proper to them; and that, on the other hand,
minute observation of the most transient impres-
sions may give them an
important character, or
may even sometimes occasion actual impressions
without any real external cause."* Every-
body must have felt the truth of this in their
own persons; but it is not generally noticed,
that even when the attention is not pre-occupied,
most parts of the body will bear to be pinched
with considerable force without occasioning
pain; thus we
may understand why mag-
netisers, in their public experiments, should
allow their somnambulists to be pinched by the
by-standers, in order to prove the magnetic
*
Rapport du Physique et du Moral de l'homme.
Our great poet also says,
"
When the mind's free
The body's delicate. The tempest in my mind
Doth from my senses take allfeeling else
Save what beats there."
King Lear.
ANIMAL Macnnrxsu. 27
insensibility to extemal impressions. The skin
is also occasionally pricked with a needle for
the same
purpose, the magnetiser generally
taking care that the needle does not penetrate
beyond the skin, an
operation attended with but
trifling inconvenience; even when the person is
only simulating somnambulism.
One of the most complete cases of insensibi-
lity which has been repeatedly adduced in proof
of the magnetic influence, is that of the female
on whom M. Cloquet performed the operation of
amputating a cancerous breast while she was in
somnambulism. To an
inquiry during the ope-
ration as to whether she experienced pain, she
answered in the negative, and only complained
of being tickled when the sponge was
applied to
the bleeding surface. Insensibility to this ex-
tent is not unfrequently met with in various
states of the nervous
system-as ecstasy, mental
aberration, epilepsy, &c., in which the persons
have received serious wounds without appearing
to feel pain. It occasionally happens, after an
injury of the head, while the patient lies in a
state of coma, that he is able to answer
ques-
tions, but appears insensible to the operation of
trepanning the skull, or
dividing the scalp.
Pinel, in his Nosographie Philosophique, men-
tions the case of a priest, who in a lit of mental
c 2
28 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
absence,'was insensible to the pain of burning.
Mr. VVardrop extirpated a tumour from 'the
head of a
young woman while she was in a state
of syncope from the abstraction of blood. She
was carried to her bed, and would not believe
the operation had been performed till a looking-
glass enabled her to verify the circumstance. I
might adduce many other instances to show
that the above case is not so
singular asit would
at first sight appear, especially to non-profes~
sional persons.
'About sixteen months ago, another case of
diminution of sensibility during an
operation,
was stated to the Académie de Médecine. M.
Oudet, a dentist and member of the Académie,
was called upon by a magnetiser to accompany
him to the house of a
lady said to be in som-
nanibulism. On arriving at the house, the
magnetiser pricked the lady several times, and
held her finger in the Hame of a
taper for
a few seconds, to ascertain whether her sensi-
bility was diminished; 'after which M. Oudet
took out his' instrument and extracted a
large
molar tooth from the lady, who at the moment
drew back her head and uttered a
slight cry.
'The relation of this case occasioned very
animated discussions on animal magnetism '; and
a Dr. Berna who had been giving lectures on
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. Q9
the subject, sent a
proposition to the Académie,
offering to convince the members by their per-
sonal experience, of the powers of magnetism.
The proposition was
accepted, and a commission
was
appointed from the members of the Acadé-
mie, composed both of advocates and opponents
of animal magnetism, as a
guarantee of imparti-
ality in judging of the experiments to be made.
But notwithstanding the different opinions
entertained by the commissioners respecting
the theoretical value of magnetism, they unani-
mously agreed in the value of the facts pre-
sented to them on the present occasion, and all
signed the report which they made to the Aca-
démie.
'I'he first meeting of the commissioners to
witness the experiments took place on the 3rd
of March, 1837, at the house of M. Roux, their
president, where M. Berna met them, and
shortly after went away in order to bring a
somnambulist who waited for him in the neigh-
bourhood. In a few minutes he returned, in-
troducing a
young girl seventeen or
eighteen
years of age, of a rather delicate and nervous
appearance, but whose manner was unembar-
rassed and resolved. ,
The number of experiments for the evening
amounted to eight; viz. lst. Somuambulisa-
30 ANIMAL maomaarlsu.
tion. 2nd- Ascertaining the existence of insen-
sibility to pricking and tickling. 3rd. Resto-
ration of the sensibility by the will of the mag-
netiser mentally expressed. 4<tb. Obedience to
the order mentally expressed, to stop in the
middle of 8. conversation; and, 5th, again to an-
swer on the mental order of the magnetiser. 6th.
swer Repetition of the same experiment, the
magnetiser being separated from the somnam-
bulist by a door. 7tb. Awaking from som-
nambulism. 8tb. In obedience to the mental
order signified during somnambulism, persist-
ance of insensibility when awakened, as also
persistance of the faculty of losing or recover-
ing sensibility, at the will of the magnetiser.
The young girl was received by the commis-
sioners with great kindness and aifability; and,
with a view to ascertain before magnetisation
to what degree she was sensible to pricking in
the ordinary state, ber hand and neck were
pricked with needles procured by M. Berna;
to the inquiries of some of the commissioners,
if she felt the pricking, she answered positively,
that she felt nothing, nor did her face express
any sign of pain. It must be remembered that
she was
perfectly awake, even to the acknow-
ledgment of the magnetiser, who had not
begun any part of his process. This did not
ANIMAL Mncmarrxsu. 31
agree with the proposition, as the insensibility
was only to be manifested in the state of som-
namhulism, and subsequent to the mental in-
junction of the magnetiser; the commissioners
were therefore somewhat surprised at this sin-
gular commencement. On further questioning,
however, she admitted that she felt a little
pain. After these preliminaries, M. Berne,
caused the somnambulist to sit near him, and
appeared to contemplate her in silence, without
making any of the movements termed passes. At
the expiration of a minute or two, he announced
that she was in somnambulism. Her eyes were
then covered with a bandage, and after having
again contemplated her, the magnetiser stated
that she was struck with general insensibility.
The proofs of insensibility are of two kinds:
one kind rests upon the mere assertion of the
individuals, upon which it is evident no reli-
ance can be placed when there exists any motive
for deceiving: the second kind are deduced
from the absence of those movements or actions
usually caused by painful impressions: but
here must he considered both the degree of
pain produced, and the firmness of the persons
on whom the experiment is made. In the pre-
sent case the amount of pain was not to exceed
a certain point rigorously fixed by M. Bex-na.
32 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Some of the commissioners pricked the girl
with needles: she did not complain of any
pain, nor did her face (the upper half of which
was
partly covered by the bandage) show any
indication of suffering. One of the commis-
sioners, however, having pricked her under the
chin morenforcibly than the rest, she performed
with vivacity the action of swallowing. M.
Berna, who perceived it, complained of the
needle having been introduced into the chin
deeper than was allowed. He then informed
the commissioners that he was about to pa,-
ralyse, by the tacit intervention of his will,
either the sensibility or the motion of any part
of the somnambulist's body that was
required;
he, however, restricted the parts to be acted
upon--1 st, to the two legs; 2ndly, to the two
arms; Brdly, an arm and leg; 4:thly, one arm
or one leg; 5thly, to the neck, turning to the
right or to the left; and 6thly, to the tongue,
as far as motion was concerned; and either the
whole or a
part of the body as
regarded sen-
sation.
Here, according to the injunctions of the
magnetiser, the only orders that could be given to
the somnambulist were-" Raise the arm"-
"
Raise the leg"-"Tum the head to the right or
to the left"-or,
"
Speak." Thus, if when one of
ANIMAL MAoNE'r1sM. -
33
the commissioners said, "Raise the left arm," the
arm were not raised, M. Berna wished it to be
considered as
proved that the arm was
paralysed
-that it was so
paralysed of his tacit will, and
that this was the result of animal magnetism.
He also desired the commissioners, if they should
not at first succeed, not to be discouraged, but to
continue till they obtained the requisite effect,
viz. paralysis of the part desired.
At a second sitting, having, as he stated,
placed the young girl in a state of somuambu-
lism, M. Bouillaud required M. Berna, in writ-
ing, to paralyse the motion of the somnambu-
list's right arm
only, and when it was done, _
to
inform him, by closing his eyes. M. Berna,
after a short period, made the sign agreed upon,
which implied that his tacit will had been
powerful enough to paralyse the right arm of
the somnambulist. M. Bouillaud proceeded to
verify the fact, and requested the girl to move
such or such limbs. When he requested her to
move the right leg, she answered that she could
neither move the right leg nor the right arm.
Thus, although, according to the arrangement
previously agreed _upon, one limb only was to
be paralysed, it appeared that two limbs were
deprived of motion. The experiment Was
therefore considered to have failed, as the com-
c5
34 ANIMAL HAGNETISH»
missioners were not so
simple as to repeat the
trials till they succeeded.
In the next experiment on the same
person
M. Berna proposed to the commissioners to re.
peat the series of experiments, viz., abolition or
restitution of sensibility, either partial or total;
privation or restitution of movements; the fa.-
culty of hearing or not hearing a
person speak-
ing, Src. After the girl was said to be in a
state of somnambulism, M. Bouillaud requested
M. Berna, by writing, to deprive the somnam-
bulist of the power of hearing him, and to
touch the shoulder of another commissioner, as
a 'sign that he had done so. He then began to
converse with the somnambulist, but before the
magnetiser had made the sign agreed upon, she
appeared not to hear him; but when the signal
was given, she answered M. Bouillaud's ques-
tions, which was
just the reverse of what ought to
have happened. But the magnetiser had spoken
to the commissioners about the wonderful facts
of vision without the assistance of the eyes-of
the famous transposition of the senses so much
talked of in the annals of magnetism; they
were therefore naturally desirous to witness
facts of this nature, and on the next occasion
repaired to the house of M. Berna, whom they
found in company with a woman about thirty
ANIMAL Macmrrisu. 35
years of age. After their arrival he covered
her eyes with a
bandage, and then stated that
she was in somnamhulism, and began to con-
verse with her. It was
agreed, that in this
sitting there were to be two kinds of facts by
which magnetism was to be tested, viz., lst,
facts, the solution of which were to he proposed
to the woman said to be in somnambulism, but
known to M. Berna; and 2n<lly, facts, of which
the solution was also to be proposed to the
subject of the experiment, but of which facts
M. Berna should be ignorant. Thus, as an ex-
ample cl' the first kind, M. Berna began by ask-
ing the woman how many persons were
present.
"
Several," she replied,
"
at least five." This
was a fact known to M. Berna, as well as to the
commissioners, and also to the somnambulist
herself, as her eyes were not bandaged till after
their arrival. One of the commissioners was
then requested by the magnetiser to write one
or more words on a card. (A pack of white
cards and a
pack of playing cards lay on a
table in the room.) The commissioner wrote
on one of the white cards the word Pantagruel,
in letters perfectly distinct, and going behind
the somnambulist, placed this card against her
occiput: the magnetiser was seated in front of
the somnambulist, and was
ignorant of the word
36 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
written; this was
consequently a fact of the
second kind; that is to say, decisive in itself.
The somnambulist, interrogated by the magne-
tiser as to what was placed at the back of her
head, answered with some hesitation, that it
was
something white, like a
visiting card. So
far there was
nothing surprising. M. Berna
had, in a loud voice, requested the commissioner
to take a card and write something upon it;
but she was further asked if she did not see
anything upon the card, to which she resolutely
replied,
"
Yes, there is writing."-"Is the
writing large or small P"-" Pretty large," she
replied.
"
What has been written ?"--" Wait
a moment, I do not
distinguish well; there is
first an M. Yes, it is a word beginning with
an M." Such were the first answers of the
somnambulist. A plain white card was then
passed to the commissioner unknown to the
magnetiser; this was substituted for the card
on which the word Pantagruel was written.
The somnambulist persisted, notwithstanding,
in saying that she saw a word beginning with
an M. She subsequently added, that she saw
two lines of writing, though she could not tell
what they were.
The reporter was taking notes close to the
somnambulist. The point of the pen was dis-
ANIMAL MAGNE'rrsM. 37
tinctly heard on the paper: the somnambulist
turned her head to that side: the magnetiser
asked her if she saw that gentleman.
"
Yes,"
she said,
"
he holds in his hand something
white and long." He then ceased writing, and
passed behind the somnanibulist, holding the
pen in his mouth. "
Do you see the gentleman
behind P" inquired the magnetiser.
"
Yes,"
she replied.
"
Do you see his mouth ?" "
Not
very well; he has in it something white and
long." The magnetiser on this glanced with
satisfaction to the commissioners, and enjoined
the reporter not to forget to note the circum-
stance. After some other experiments of writing
on cards, at which the somnambulist was as much
at fault as in the first instance, M. Berna, in a
loud tone, requested a commissioner to take a
playing card and place it to the occiput of the
somnambulist. "
A court card ?" inquired the
commissioner. "As you please," replied M.
Berna. The commissioner, however, instead 'of
selecting a
playing card, took a
plain white one
of the same size, unknown to M. Berna, and of
course to the somnambulist. He then placed
this card to her occiput. M. Berna, seated in
front as before, interrogated her. She hesitated,
and at last answered that she saw a card. On
being further interrogated, she again hesitated,
38 Amman uacunrxsu.
and then said that there was black and red on
the card. After some further efforts to induce
the somnambulist to be more explicit, the mag-
netiser, little satisfied with the result of the
transposition of sight to the occiput, requested
the commissioner to pass the card in front of
the somnambulist, close to the bandage which
covered her eyes, which was, in fact, a renunci-
ation of the transposition of the senses, for
r-lairvoyance through a bandage. The card
was quickly passed, as desired, so that M.
Berne. seeing the white surface of the card,
supposed that its back was turned towards
himself, and the coloured parts towards the
bandage of the somnambulist. On being again
questioned, she said she now saw the card better,
and then added, that she distinguished some-
thing like a
figure. M. Berna continued to
question her; the sornnambulist appearing to
make great efforts, declared that she saw a
knave. "But which knave? there are four
knaves." She replied,
"
There is black by the
side of the knave."--" Still there are two knaves
that have black on their side." She was
again
solicited by the magnetiser, and appeared to
make great efforts; at last she hit upon it-
"
The knave of c1ubs." M. Berna, to termi-
nate the experiment, took the card out of the
ANIMAL Maczurrxsu . 39
cognmissioner's hand, and perceived that it was
perfectly white.
I need not relate any more cases from the
report of the commissioners, as the results
were similar to the above, but will give an
abstract of the conclusions at which the com-
missioners arrived.
lst. It results from all the facts witnessed,
that no
proof has been afforded of the exist-
ence of a
peculiar state, termed magnetic som-
nambulism, and there is only the magnetiser's
assertions to trust to, that the individuals were
in this state at each meeting.
2nd1y. The second experiment was to deter-
mine the insensibility of the person submitted
to the experiment. It was not allowed, how-
ever, to try this by pinching, pulling, the con-
tact of a body in a state of ignition, or of an
elevated temperature, but merely by the prick-
ing the skin with needles, introduced no
deeper
than half a line, which could only produce a
very moderate degree of pain; and considering
the face and eyes, where painful impressions
are mostly shown, were covered, even perfect
immobility could not be regarded as a
proof of
the abolition of sensibility.
3rdly. The magnetiser was to prove, that
by the sole intervention of his will he had the
40 ANIMAL MAGNETISBL
power of restoring sensibility to the somnam-
bulist; but as he could not prove experimentally
that the young girl had ever been deprived of
sensibility, it would have been impossible for
him to have proved its restoration. Besides, all
the trials made with respect to this part of the
experiment completely failed.
4-thly. The above remark will also apply to
the pretended abolition and restoration of the
power of motion, not the slightest proof of
which was afforded. When the girl assured
the commissioners that she could not move her
leg, it was no
proof to them that this limb
was
magnetically paralysed, and even then her
assertions were not in accordance with the pre-
tensions of the magnetiser.
5thly. Obedience to the will of the magne-
tiser was to be proved by the somnambulist
ceasing to hold a conversation with a
person
indicated. Instead of this result being pro-
duced, quite the contrary effects were maui-
fested; the somnambulist appeared not to hear
before the magnetiser wished it, and heard and
answered questions when he desired that she
might not hear; so that according to the asser-
tions of the somnambulist, the faculty of hearing
or not hearing was
completely in opposition
to the will of the magnetiser. The commis-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 41
sioners, however, did not see in the circum-
stance an opposition" any more than a submis-
sion to the will of the magnetiser, but only a
natural and complete independence of it.
`6thly. The proving the transposition of the
sense -of sight failed entirely. The only things
correctly stated by the somnambulist were what
she might naturallyinferfrom the circumstances;
as, hearing the magnetiser request a
person to
take a card and write upon it, she professed to
be able to see the card and writing, but was
quite
wrong when interrogated respecting the word
written; and from the circumstance of her
guessing that the commissioner, whom she knew
had been writing and had ceased to write, held
his pen in his mouth when she was asked if
she saw his mouth, the commissioners could
only conclude that this somnambulist was more
sharp than the preceding one, and was better
able to draw probable conclusions.
'7th1y.-To prove claifrvoyance. The cir-
cumstances which occurred carry with them
their own inference, viz. that the faculty of dis-
tinguishing through a bandage, objects pre-
sented to the somnambulist, cannot be caused by
the magnetiser. But here a serious reflection
presents itself. Even in admitting for a mo-
ment the hypothesis, very convenient for the
42 Axnuus HAGNETIBM-
magnetisers, that under many circumstances
the best somnambulists may lose their lucidity,
and that, like the generality of mortals, they
cannot see by the occiput, the stomach, or even
through a bandage when under these circum-
stances ;-even admitting all this, what must
be thought with respect to this woman, who
could distinguish a knave of clubs on a
perfectly
blank card-who in a medal of the Académie
could see a
gold watch with white face and
black letters-and who, if she had been further
pressed, would probably have mentioned the
hour indicated ou this watch.
,
Lastly. As a
general conclusion from all
the experiments, the commissioners aver that
M. Berna doubtless deceived himself when he
made sure of proving to the Académie, by con-
clusive facts, the truth of magnetism, and the
elucidation by them of points of physiology
and therapeutics. These facts are now known,
and they are opposed to conclusions in favour
of magnetism itself, and consequently they can
have nothing in common, either with physiology
or
therapeutics.
The commissioners will not attempt to decide
whether they would have foundanything more
conclusive, in more numerous and varied cases
furnished by other magnetisers: but one thing
ANIMAL uacnxsrism. 43
is certain, that if there are other magnetisers,
they have not dared to come
forward-they
have not dared to put magnetism to the test of
academical sanction or condemnation.
In the course of the discussions on the sub-
ject in the Académie several instances of decep-
tion were brought forward, which at the time
had passed current as proofs of magnetic power.
M. Velpeau, in alluding to a young man who
had been able to predict the periods of his
epileptic attacks, and who was also said to be
able to read with his eyes bandaged, says,
"l thought of looking under the bandage,
which was loosely applied, and my surprise
ceased. The performer of these miracles was
a young law student, who had quarrelled with
his friends, had no means of existence, and who
entered an hospital under the pretext that he
was paralytic, which was an invention. I was
in the secret, and did not betray him,as it would
have lost him; although the surgeon of the
hospital thought it really a
paralysis, prescribed
accordingly, and after uselessly trying other
remedies, spoke of applying the moxaz* from
that period the remedies which had been
'
Moxa is a cylinder of ignited cotton, or other sub-
stance, applied to the skin, and, by the slow action of
the heat, produces an ulcer. _
44 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
hitherto inactive performed wonders. From
this hospital he went to that of La Charité, to
subject himself to the experiments of mag-
netism.
'
"
M. Georget became a zealous partisan of
magnetism, after having been its opponent, and
admitted its truth in his work on the nervous
system: he had performed experiments, and
believed them incontrovertible. M. Londe
assisted at these experiments. Well, Georget
can'ied with him to the tomb his belief in mag-
netism, but M. Londe has outlived him, and
you have heardhim declare in this assembly,
that Georget and himself had been deceived,
that they had been duped by some miserable
creatures who have since boasted of the circum-
stance. However, the work exists, and its
author is no
longer here to rectify the errors it
contains. In conclusion I say, that whenever
the facts stated by the magnetisers to have
occurred, have been inquired into, the wonder-
ful has disappeared."
The following case of clairvoyance was a
great deal talked about at the time, and has
been inserted as a fact by .Mr. Colquhoun in
his work. "Petronilla Leclerc, at twenty-six,
admitted into the hospital of La Charité, in
1830, under the care of Dr. Fouquier, was
ANIMAL Mac Nnnsu. 45
afflicted with a
cerehro-spasmodic epileptiform
complaint. M. Sebire, who had the care of her,
magnetised her several times, and some remark-
able phenomena were manifested. In the first
sitting the somnambulist gave several marks of
lucidity: some
objects were
presented to her,
as a bottle filled with vinegar, sugar, bread, Sic.
which she recognised perfectly well without
seeing them, as she had a
bandage over her
eyes. When answering the questions put to
her," she turned to the opposite side and plunged
her face in the pillow; without being asked,
she said to the person who was
holding her
hand, 'You have got a head-ache,' which was
true; but to try her, M. Sebire answered, that
she was mistaken. '
That is singular,' replied
she; '
I touched some
person who had a head-
ache, for I felt it.' She distinguished several
persons who were
present by some
peculiarities
in their dress.
"The following was one of the most remark-
able circumstances that occurred. The mag-
netiser had retired, after promising to return at
half-past five o'clock, in order to awaken her.
He arrived before the appointed time. The
somnambulist observed, that it was not
yet half-
past five, to which he answered, that he had
just received a letter, which obliged him to
46 ANIMAL MAcNE'rlsM.
return sooner. 'O yes,' she immediately re-
plied ; 'it is that letter which you have in your
pocket-book, between a blue card and a
yellow
one.' The fact was
strictly true. M. Sehire,
without saying anything, placed a watch behind
her occiput, and asked her what it was o'clock
by the watch? She answered, '
Six minutes
past four,' and she was
right."
All this sounds very marvellous, and no
doubt appeared conclusive to the bystanders, of
the truth and miraculous powers of magnetism;
but unfortunately for the magnetisers Petronilla
died of phthisis, in the Salpetriere, in 1833,
and repeatedly declared in the latter part of her
life, to the infefrnés of the hospital, that she had
never experienced the least degree of somnam-
bulism, and that she used to laugh in her sleeve
at Georget and the others who were
present at
the experiments. She aiiirmed that she had
passed with Brouillard (another somnambulist)
more than one delicious evening in recounting
the mystyications of the day, and in prepar-
ing those for the morrow. These persons
also allowed themselves to be pricked and pinch~
ed without evincing pain. I am
acquainted
with the gentlemen to whom these avowals were
made, and one of them assured me of the cor-
rectness of the above statement. .
ANIMAL Macumxsm. 47
In a lecture recently reported in the Lancet,
Dr. Sigmond, the lecturer, observes, "The per-
son in somnambulism heard no sound which I
occasioned, but the moment I placed myself in
communication with him he has heard it.
Thus, if I touch a note of the piano, it pro-
duces no effect until I touch the person; he then
starts: and this is the same with regard to
speaking. If any part of my body is in imme-
diate communication, an
attempt to answer is
generally made, sometimes replies are given;
but this is not the case, however loudly I might
call, if a communication is not kept up." For
this and similar cases is it not most probable
that the touching or
shaking the individual
would have the effect of exciting his attention
to the sounds produced or to the questions
made, as is frequently seen in states of partial
sleep, mental abstraction, &c. ? It is well
known, that the sensitive faculties are not all
"
steeped in forgetfulness" at the same time, or
in the same
degree. The sight and taste appear
to be the first suspended when a
person goes to
sleep; after these, the smell; then hearing;
and lastly, touch. How often does it occur,
that persons to all appearance asleep, have
heard what was said around them; or, wheninca-
pahle of hearing, have been partly roused up by
48 ANIMAL uacnmrsn.
slight impressions on the skin, as a fly set-
tling on the face, the hand being touched,
Src.; and even when external impressions
are no longer felt, volition appears to be
in some degree awake, as seen in the efforts
made to preserve an
equilibrium when the per-
son is in a
sitting posture. How many times
after the head drops forward is it not again
elevated, before the person is perfectly asleep?
Men accustomed to sleep in the sitting posi-
tion can often preserve their equilibrium with-
out support of the sides or back, and while in
motion, as is the case with coachmen on the
box, who still continue when asleep to hold the
whip and reins. Mr. Macnish mentions, in his
"
Philosophy of Sleep," that during the retreat
of Sir John Moore, many of the soldiers fell
asleep, yet continued to march along with their
comrades.
'
From what has been said we
may conclude,
lst, That the production of convulsive
crises, and other states, by the practice of
Mesmer and his followers, was but the effect
most likely to ensue in impressionable indivi-
duals, from the influence of an excited ima-
gination and of imitation, similar results being
constantly seen in the ordinary practice of
medicine.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 49
Qndly. That the instances of intuitive fore~
sight, transposition of the senses, clairvoyance,
&c., have been disproved in every case that has
been impartially inquired into, and that in
many of them there have been gross attempts
at deception, by the magnetiser, or the mag-
netised, or both.
3rdly. That there has also been frequent
deception on the part of individuals with re-
spect to the state termed magnetic somnam-
bulism : that no
proof has been given that any
such state is produced by magnetism: though
states of partial torpor not unfrequently occur
in nervous
persons, especially after moral im-
pressions; and that when in these states, the
individuals are to a certain extent insensihle to
mechanical stimulants, though, at the same
time, they can occasionally give brief answers
to questions, particularly if the questions have
reference to the subject uppermost in their
thoughts.
4~thly. That a state of partial or total sleep
is produced in many persons by the action of
'the passes, and in some others convulsive move-
ments or other slight effects: but inasmuch as
similar effects are also producible without mag-
netisation- if the person supposes that the pro-
cess is continued--there is every probability that
D
50 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
they arise in all cases, either from the impres-
sion produced upon the individual in imagina-
tion, or from the ennui and sedative influence
produced by all monotonous impressions on the
senses, when persisted in for a certain period.
Norm.-From some recent experiments made in Lon-
don, it would appear probable, that the effects stated
under the fourth head may result, in some instances,
entirely from the influence transmitted from the magne-
tiser to the magnetised ; but it has been proved that
like effects may ensue in persons on whom they had
already repeatedly occurred, without their being mag-
netised afresh, provided they were led to believe that
the process was carried on as usual, and that they were
under its influence, as will be seen to have been the
case on referring to some ofthe experiments made
before the commissioners of the Académie Royale de
-Médecine. What I have seen of these experiments
leaves little doubt on my mind that the phenomena
observed are independent of any magnetic influence,
and might be reproduced without magnetisation ;
always provided the individuals were placed in cir-
cumstances which would lead them to suppose them-
selves magnetised. Thus, at M. Dupotet's, none of the
higher phenomena of magnetism are even alluded to,
and the convulsive movements and other effects follow
actions made in front of the individuals; or if the mag-
netiser be behind them, they are aware that he is per-
forming the passes upon them. One female, after being
seated, is always seized with a slight rotatory motion
of the head, which was increased by actions directed
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 51
by the magnetiser towards her, but it also became
increased, without her being specially magnetised,
and when the magnetiser was in another room. The
motion was arrested for a brief period, by the mag-
netiser placing his thumb or finger on the person's
forehead. On my touching her forehead, without any
intention of magnetising, a like effect was produced.
Another somnambulist, a Frenchwoman, and ser-
vant of M. Dupotet's, who is occasionally introduced
at the close of the exhibition, rose repeatedly from
her chair, and struggled with and even threaten-
ed to strike persons who attempted to restrain her,
but was always tranquillised, and fell back into
her seat, on the magnetiser taking hold of her and
touching her forehead. On one occasion, when she
rose from her seat, and the magnetiser was in the ad-
joining apartment, I took hold of her wrist as he had
done, and, on touching her forehead, she fell back
tranquillised in her chair, as on former occasions.
The same person's hands were taken by the mag-
netiser, who repeated several times, "0uvrez les
yeux, Julie," which Julie, after apparently making
some efforts, accordingly did. But this affords no
proof that she could not open her eyes whenever she
pleased, and that she did so in consequence of mag-
netic influence. The magnetiser declined attempting
a similar result on his other somnambulists. One of
these he drew from her chair towards himself by
some movements of the hand, (he being seated at a
little distance before her,) and she remained in a posi-
tion of cataleptic rigidity till replaced in the chair;
he declined, however, repeating the experiment behind
D 2
52 ANIMAL Macnmrrsm.
the somnambulist, when she would not he aware that
he was acting upon her ; though, if the effect resulted
from magnetic power, it must have been equally
apparent.
A
lVith respect to Rebecca and the little girl, the
other capital somnambulists of the exhibition, I have
no doubt that the effects observed were independent
of magnetic influence, and that like effects might
have been equally obtained without magnetisation.
Although such cases excite a great degree of wonder
in the generality of persons, and are well calculated
to make converts, yet medical men, especially those
who have een much of nervous complaints, are well
aware of the curious phenomena which occasionally
occur in females; particularly when made objects of
interest to an assembled multitude. Every medical
man knows hysterical affections are aggravated, and
are obstinate in proportion to the degree of attention
.they excite, and of' sympathy manifested by relations
or bystanders. Magnetisers assert that individuals,
when in somnambulism, are insensible to external
stimuli, and will only answer the questions of the
magnetiser, or of persons placed en rapport with
them; but this young woman called out on her ear
being moderately pinched, and answered any of the
questions that were proposed to her by the visitors.
It is evident she had anticipated a more than usually
interesting séance, as she repeated two or three times,
"Lord Stanhope is to be here to_day." No effects
were produced on the men subjected to magnetisation,
except occasional muscular twitchings in one indi-
vidual.
HOMCEOPATHY.
"
Quand 1'absurde est outré ou, lui fait trop d'honneur,
De vouloir, par raison, combattre on erreur."
LA~ FoN'rA1NE.
Tms doctrine was first promulgated about thirty
years ago, though it did not attract much atten-
tion till within the last few years. It originated
with Dr. Hahnemann, a native of Saxony, who,
after having resided in various parts of Germany,
at length took up his abode in Leipsic, and in-
stituted experiments on the action of medicinal
substances upon himself and othersf* Having in
"
"About the year 1800, Hahnemann advertised a new
salt, of which he claimed the discovery, and
Ihich he
sold at the modest price of a louis d'or per ounce.
The Society for the Promotion of Natural Sciences,
desirous of' becoming acquainted with this new sub-
stance, had it analysed by some of the most expe-
rienced chemists, who pronounced it to be nothing
but common borax. He shortly afterwards advertised
54 nosimorxrnr.
1790 taken some bark, which produced, as he
states, paroxysms of intermittent fever, he was
struck with the circumstance that the substance
employed for the cure of intermittents should
occasion a. similar disease in a
healthy person.
This led to the inference that substances which
produce certain symptoms in healthy individu-
als can remove these symptoms when induced by
other causes; hence a fundamental point of the
doctrine, that diseases are cured only by medi-
cines which have the power of causing similar
diseases in healthy persons: Similia similibus
curentur.
Homoeopathists consequently do not consider
a knowledge of anatomy, physiology, or
patho-
logy, as contributing to the cure of disease, but
restrict themselves to noting the different groups
of symptoms in diseases, and to ascertaining the
appropriate remedy, without regard to the or-
ganic changes, or other circumstances, by which
the symptoms are caused, or whether they affect
the nervous, vascular, or other systems. For
example, in following the rules of homo-:opathy,
"
an infallible preventive of scarlet fever ;" but being
disappointed by its sale, he afterwards confessed it to
be nothing but a few grains of extract of belladonna
dissolved in water."-Remarks on the Abracadabra of
the nineteenth century, by Dr. Leo Wolfl
I-IOMCEOPATHY. 55
if a
person have headache, whether arising from
exhaustion, inflammation, or stomach derange-
ment, the same remedy should be had recourse
to, and that remedy must be a substance capable
of causing headache in a
healthy individual.
Medical doctrines are divided by Hahnemann
into the allopathic, or method in general use, of
curing diseases by remedies of 'an opposite na-
ture--contraria contrariis,-the antipathic, or
palliative method, and the hommopathic, the
only true method; the principles of which are
contained in his Ewposition de la Doctrine Mé-
dicale homaeopathique. This work contains an
abundance of absurd reasoning, of extravagant
and unfounded assertions; of some truisms,
from which erroneous conclusions are drawn; of
exceptions to general principles; and isolated
examples, extracted from various authors, and
adduced as the principles themselves, in order to
corroborate the positions laid down by the
author. Thus, to prove that many of the cures
hitherto effected have been so
by the chance
employment of homoeopathic means, several in-
stances are brought forward, among which are,
that rose~water cures ophthalmy,only because it
has the power of causing a kind of ophthalmy.
In like manner bark cures intermittents, because
it occasions these diseases; ipecacuanha arrests
56 Hommoraruv.
fluxions of blood, only because it possesses the
faculty of exciting haemorrhage; generous
wines, in small doses, cure
homaeopathically in-
flammatory fever; hyoscyamus could not cure
spasms resembling epilepsy, if it had not the
power of exciting convulsions; the same
remedy
could not have cured a case of mania from jea-
lousy, if it did not occasion mania and jealousy
in healthy individuals.
Again, the popular customs of using snow to
frost-bitten parts, of putting a scalded hand
near the fire, are adduced to prove the homce-
opathic nature of the remedies to these accidents;
vaccine is considered to act homceopathically in
preventing small-pox, &c`. These examples will
suiiice to show that the style of argument
adopted is opposed to established truths; for
who ever heard of rose-water causing ophthalmy,
of bark causing intermittents, of ipecacuanha
exciting hmmorrhage, or
being employed to ar-
rest it, of generous wines curing inflammatory
fever, of hyoscyamus determining convulsions,
mania, and jealousy ? If snow is used to frost-
bitten parts, it is used with friction, in order, as
is well known, to bring the parts gradually to
their natural state; whereas, if used on homo:-
opathic principles, it would be kept constantly
applied; and, as
may be imagined, with a cer-
non morfvrnv. 57
tainty of aggravating the evil. So also with
respect to the application of heat to scalded
parts; and to prove vaccine a
homoeopathic
agent, it should be shown that it has the power
to cure
small-pox when already existing; which
indeed it is asserted it would do, were it not sur-
passed by the small-pox in intensity.
Medicines, then, are not considered by the
homceopathists as direct remedies, but to act by
giving rise to morbid symptoms, surpassing in in-
tensity those of the disease against which they
are
employed, on the principle that two similar
diseases cannot co-exist in the same individual :
the original disease consequently yields, being
overpowered by the artificial disease caused by
the remedies; and this, on the discontinuance Of
the medicines, is in its turn speedily ove1'come
by the powers of the constitution.
This proposition also contradicts itself, for,
as Dr. Wolf observes,
"
How can it be recon_
ciled with common sense, that the vital powers
are too weak and insufiicient to remove
any
natural disease or its symptoms, be they ever so
trifling, without the aid of a hommopathic drug,
but are nevertheless powerful enough to remove
the drug-sickness which is left after, the natural
disease is extinguished ? Can any one
compre-
hend that a
power should be capable of over.
D 5
58 noxxmorxrnv.
coming a
large obstacle, and should be incapa-
ble of removing at the same time a similar and
comparatively much smaller one ?"
The particular symptoms to which each me-
dicinal substance gives rise, and against which it
is to
beemployed, are to beasoertained by expe-
riments made by the homa-:opathist upon himself
or other healthy persons.
But it must not be supposed that these sur-
prising effects are
produced by the ounce,
drachm, or
grain doses employed by ordinary
practitioners. According to Hahnemann, the
effects of medicinal substances are two-fold, viz.
primitive, as the violent action produced by
large quantities of certain drugs; purgation,
sweating. &c.; and secondary, or
homceopathic,
in which the action is determined towards the
diseased part; the active properties becoming
more
developed in proportion to the minuteness
of the dose: in fact, homceopathists are cau-
tioned against too minute a subdivision of the
medicine, lest it should become so
energetic as to
give rise to dangerous symptoms. I cannot,
however, do better than extract one or two pas-
sages from the Exposition, in order to illustrate
this position.
"
Besides, the homaropathic medicament ac-
quires, at each division or dilution, an extraor-
HoMa=:o1>.».'rHY. 59
dinary degree of power by the friction or the
shock imparted to it, as means of developing
the inherent virtues of medicines unknown be~
fore me, and which is so
energetic, that, of late,
experience has obliged me to shake only twice,
whereas formerly I prescribed ten shakes to each
dilution."
"
Gold, silver, platina, charcoal, are without
action on man in their ordinary state, but from
the continued trituration of a
grain of gold with
an hundred grains of powdered sugar, there
results a
preparation which has already great
medicinal virtue. If a grain of this mixture be
taken and triturated with another hundred grains
of sugar, and if this process be continued until
each grain of the ultimate preparation contains
a quadrillionth part of the grain of gold, we shall
then have a medicament in which the medicinal
virtue of the gold is so much developed, that it
will be sufficient to take a grain, place it in a
phial, and cause the air from it to be breathed
for a few instants by a
melancholy individual, in
whom the disgust of life is carried so far as to
incline to suicide, in order that, an hour after.
wards, this person be delivered from his evil
demon, and restored to his taste for life."
Hahnemann also says, speaking of silex or
Hint,
"
This earth being reduced to a millionth
60 HOBNEOPATHY.
degree of attenuation, a grain of the powder is
reduced to the decillionth dilution. In fact, dilu-
tions tothe billionth or trillionth degree produce
effects much too violent :, that of the sextillionth
degree only may be commenced with, but this
only suits robust persons ; in irritable subjects
it is prudent to use
only the decillionth dilu-
tion."
'
Of kitchen salt he says, "A grain of salt is
reduced to the millionth degree of attenuation;
this powder is dissolved in diluted alcohol, and
the division extended to the decillionth degree:
carried to this degree of dilution, sea-salt is a
powerful and lieroical medicament, which can
only be administered to patients with the great-
est caution."
The action of imponderable agents, as
light,
electricity, &c., has been
adduced by some ho-
moeopathists to prove the action of infinitesimal
doses of medicines; but it is evident that no
similar comparison can be instituted; and in
order for the analogy to be maintained it should
have been proved by the homoeopathists, that
persons can see better in proportion to the small
quantity of light, and that they are more
affected by heat or
electricity in proportion to
the smallness of the quantity of these agents
applied.
Houmorarnv. 61
Hahnemann says, "Let mathematicians ex-
plain to
them how true it is, that if a substance
be divided into any number of parts, its small-
est particle will always contain something of this
substance, and therefore it can never become a
nonentity." On which Dr. Wolf remarks,
"
If
this be admitted in a strict sense, does it follow,
therefore, that the effect of these substances on
the human body in any imaginable small quan-
tity, must not only be perceptible, but still
greater than when in quantities many million
times larger ? The thick fibres of a
piece of meat
are divisible into those which are so small as to
be imperceptible by the best microscope. Does
it follow from this, that the decoction of such a
microscopic fibre will afford the patient as much
or even more nourishment after a
homoeopathic
manipulation, than a
strong broth made allopa-
thically from some
pounds of meat ?"
Homueopathic remedies may therefore be con-
sidered analogous with the médecine erpectante,
with this difference, that in the latter the
patients know that the physician employs no
remedies, but trusts entirely to the efforts of
nature for their cure ; whereas the imagination of
patients treated homaaopathically is acted upon,
from their being led to consider the remedies
employed to be of an
energetic nature, as will
62 HOMEOPATHY.
be seen in the sequel. The cures so
pompously
announced by the homaeopathists will in almost
all cases be found to be simple recoveries by
the efforts of nature after a
longer or shorter
period, as in the following, published by a ho-
moeopathic physician.
"
Madame C. V., aged thirty-six, affected with
chronic gastro-enteritis, produced by grief and
abuse of coffee; she had been treated by seve-
ral physicians, and had been kept three months
on amilk-diet; she had headaches, and menstrua-
tion had been suppressed seven months; she
was prescribed pulsatilla, nux vomica, °&c. ;
menstruation appeared in twenty-seven days,
and in three months she was cured."
"
Mademoiselle R. did not menstruate at her
accustomed period, and was affected with a
catarrh ; she was
prescribed pulsatilla, and men-
struation occurred in the following month, and
the catarrh was cured without any other medi-
cament."
The only division of diseases by Hahnemann
is into acute and chronic; of the former but
little is said in the Exposition; although they
may arise from exterior causes, as cold, excesses,
Szc., yet in many cases
they depend upon apsoric
affection, and almost all chronic diseases origi-
nate from sycosis, syphilis, or
psora (vulgo itch.)
HOMCBIOPATHY. 63
This latter especially is the cause of innumer-
able diseases, which great truth it took Hahne-
mann twelve years to find out. In mentioning
some of the evils produced by this miasm, I
quote his own words: "
This is the only funda-
mental and exciting cause of all the morbid
forms which, under the names of nervous weak-
ness, hysteria, hypochondriasis, mania, melan-
cholia, epilepsy, spasms of all kinds, rickets,
caries, cancer, gout, haemorrhoids, jaundice,
dropsy, amenorrhwa, hemoptysis, asthma, and
suppuration of the lungs, sterility, deafness,
cataract and amaurosis, gravel, palsy, pains of
all kinds, Src., figure in pathology as so
many
separate diseases, distinct and independent one
from the other." ,
The modifications this miasm has undergone
in its passage through millions of human con-
stitutions, during several hundred generations,
explain how it can assume so
many forms.
In the treatment of cases, the precaution has
been taken by the homoeopathists of regulating
with extreme care the diet of their patients.
Abstinence from everything of a
stimulating
nature, as condiments, coffee, Src., is recom-
mended ; even the smelling of delicate perfumes
is prohibited, although the smoking of tobacco
is allowed ; which, considering Germany is the
64- HOM(EOPATHY¢
country whence homoeopathy originated, is an
extremely politic measure.
The absurdity of a doctrine equally opposed
to reason and every-day experience could not
fail to be immediately apparent to the medical
profession, as well as the injurious effects that
might arise from its professors being allowed to
practise on the credulity of the public, ever
ready to be attracted by novelty, especially if it
be clothed in the garb of unintelligibility and
mystery. In order, therefore, to show the value
of the pretensions of homceopathy, the experi-
ment was made in Germany, Russia, France,
and Italy, of treating a certain number' of pa-
tients in public institutions by hommopathic
means, and an
equal number by the usual me-
thods: the results are such as
might have been
anticipated.
AGerman homoeopathist, practising in Russia,
was invested by the Grand Duke Michael with
full powers to prove, if possible, by a
compari-
son of facts, the advantages of homoeopathic
measures over the ordinary modes of treatment;
and a certain number of patients in the wards of
a
military hospital were entrusted to his care.
At the expiration of two months, however, he
was not permitted to proceed further; for,
in comparing results, it was seen that within
HoMmo1>A'rnY. 65
this period, of four hundred and fifty-seven
patients treated by the ordinary means, three
hundred and sixty-four, or three-fourths, were
cured, and none died ; whereas, by the homoeo-
pathic method, tried on one hundred and twenty-
eight patients, one-half only were cured, and
five had died.
In order to ascertain and give publicity to
the results, the Russian government caused a
certain number of patients to be treated homce-
opathically in one
hospital, while in another an
equal number of patients were
merely subjected
to low diet and appropriate regimen, without
the exhibition of any medicine. The results
were
very similar in both instances, and the
medical council appointed to superintend the
experiments thus gives its oflicial opinion:
"
The medical council, after having attentively
weighed the results of the experiments made ac-
cording to the homoeopathic method, and com-
pared them with those made according to the
principles of the médecine ewpectante, finds that
they greatly resemble the latter, and are
proba--
bly based only on the 'vis medicdtria' natures;
for the infinitely minute doses can
produce no
effect on the human body. The medical council
is therefore of opinion, that the hommopathic
practice should be prohibited in sanatory esta-
66 HOMGOPATHY.
blishments dependent on government, for the
following reasons:
"
l. Acute diseases require energetic means
of treatment, which are not to be expected from
homoeopathy.
"
2. The hommopathic treatment of external
lesions and surgical diseases is altogether out of
the question.
"
3. Some slight affections get well while
under hommopathic treatment, but similar
affections disappear equally well, without any
medical treatment, by the adoption of an
ap-
propriate regimen, good air, and cleanliness."
The homoeopathist who introduced the prac-
tice at Naples, was, as stated by Dr. Wolf,
"an ignorant Bohemian barber, who enjoyed
the patronage of the Austrian general, to whom
he was
particularly recommended by Hahne-
mann. The public, as well as some talented young
physicians who adopted homoeopathy, awoke
from their illusive credulity, but not until the
general, with many other persons of distin-
guished rank, had died or were
injured by this
all-curing art."
At the time homoeopathy was in vogue at
Naples, a commission was
appointed, by royal
order, to superintend the treatment of a certain
number of patients during forty days; the pa-
noMa:oPA'rHY. 67
tients were selected by the physicians, and a
separate ward in the hospital appropriated to
them.
It was first determined by the commission to
ascertain whether some of the patients would
not get well without the employment of any
remedy; ten were
consequently set apart, and
all recovered. One of them had a
gastric
fever: the homaeopathic physician wished to
give him a
drop of the tincture of St. Ignatius'
bean, at the twelfth dilution, representing a
quadrillionth part of the original drop. He
protested against expectation, saying., that the
delay might compromise the life of the patient.
The physicians re-assured him; they reckoned
upon a crisis occurring, which accordingly did
take place in the night, and the patient was
well in two days. Had the hotnoeopathic dose
been taken, the cure would most assuredly have
been attributed to it.
Several slight affections were treated homceo_
pathically and recovered, without the com-
mission being able to ascribe any of the reco-
veries to homfeopathy, as they would in all pro-
bability have recovered as soon
by simple atten-
tion to diet. A third set of cases of a more seri-
ous nature, and requiring the assistance of me-
dicine, were also treated by the homoeopathic
68 Houmoraruv.
method, which was found altogether power-
less, none of them obtaining any advantage;
the cases were
longer under treatment than
usual, and several of the patients became worse,
requiring the employment of ordinary measures
for their cure.
In a fourth series of experiments of homoeo-
pathic remedies on
healthy persons, no efiects
resulted from their administration. From
these the commissioners deduced the following
inferences; lst, That the hommopathic treat-
ment produced no effect ; and, 2nd1y, that it
had the serious inconvenience, in several of the
patients, of preventing the employment of re-
medies by which they might be cured.
On account of the statement of a Dr. Luz, a
veterinary surgeon at Leipsic, that he had per-
formed several surprising cures
by the homoeo-
pathic method on horses and dogs, trials
were instituted on these animals in the veteri-
nary school and hospital at Berlin. The expe-
riments were conducted with the utmost exacti-
tude, and in the presence of many students and
homoeopathists; and though the cases were
similar to those described by Dr. Luz, not one
was cured; not one confirmed his statements
even in the slightest degree.
The experiments made in Paris to show how
HOMGEOPATHY.
far homoeopathy had claims to public confidence,
also tend to prove that where any effects are
produced, they are to be ascribed to the influ-
ence of the imagination.
l. Several medical students at the Hotel
Dieu, chosen by a
homceopathic physician, were
subjected to the homoeopathic regimen, and took
at first one, then two, then ten, and at last
eighty globules at a dose, of the most active
medicines prepared by the only homwopathic
chemist in Paris. In not one instance was the
slightest effect produced.
2. A number of pills, made with inert sub-
stances, as flour, gum arabic, and starch, were
given to patients who believed them to be ho-
moeopathic remedies. I subjoin two or three of
the results obtained.
Aphonia, of six weeks' duration, cured in a
few hours by starch pillsgiven homwopathically.
A girl, aged twenty, was admitted on the 141th
January with complete loss of voice, which had
existed since the middle of November. She
had experienced a similar attack in the preced-
ing year, but had recovered in fifteen days.
Menstruation was
regularly performed; afew
days' rest, and the usual hospital regimen, pro-
duced no effect; she was
consequently placed
in the department where the homoeopathic ex-
70 Houcaorarnv.
periments were made, and was ordered two
starch pills; the first to be taken in the pre-
sence of the physician, the next when four
hours had elapsed. A few minutes after the
first pill had been swallowed, the following
symptoms manifested themselves-anxiety, pain
and uneasiness in the region of the heart and
thorax, perspiration, with heat and eruption on
the skin. The second pill appeared to aggra-
vate these symptoms, with the addition of hic-
cough. She afterwards fell asleep, and, on
awaking, was astonished to find she could talk
in a loud tone. The complaint did not recur, and
she soon quitted the hospital. This case is ofa
similar nature with that which I related a few
pages back, where the patient so
speedily re-
covered the use of her limbs after having been
magnetised.
A man, aged forty, was admitted about the
same time as the preceding patient, complain-
ing of a sense of oppression on the chest. He
had experienced an attack of hemoptysis a year
before, and was
exceedingly hypochondriacal.
During the first few days no treatment was
adopted, and he continued in the same state.
Four starch pills, which he supposed to be ho-
mmopathic remedies, were then prescribed; one
to be taken regularly every six hours. Half an
Hon/1<EorAr HY. 7 1
hour after swallowing each pill, the patient ex-
perienced anxiety, sense of oppression, spitting
of blood. The pills were discontinued, and re-
sumed on alternate days during a
fortnight.
Each time they were taken, they were followed
by oppression, headache, acceleration of pulse,
diuresis, and pains in all the limbs.
A girl, aged twenty-three, labouring under
cough with hectic fever, and insomnia, was also
treated by these inert pills, which she ima-
gined to be homoeopathic. Each time after
taking a
pill, the fever diminished, the cough
was less fatiguing, and she slept better; she
suffered more when she did not take it, and
always requested to have her "
calming pill."
The following case occurred to a
physician at
St. Petersburgh.
"
A lady, aged forty-eight,
phthisical, had been treated by the homoeo-
pathic method during two years, when I became
her physician; and as my efforts were unsuc-
cessful, she requested me to treat her homoeo-
pathically. I consented, and gave her two
grains of sugar, assuring her she would experi-
ence the effects of this powerful medicine for
six days. The following day she received me
with an ironical smile, saying,
"
One may easily
see, doctor, that you are not accustomed to
handle homoeopathic remedies: that which you
72 noMa~:orA'rnY.
gave me was too energetic ; it caused so much
disturbance. that I did not expect to outlive
the night; however, its action is in the end
salutary, for I have not felt myself so well for a
long time as I feel to-day."
3. Two physicians attached to an
hospital ex-
perimented upon the in_/irmiers, or male attend_
ants in their wards. One physician desired his
injirmiers to note down every half hour the sensa-
tions they experienced, after taking what they
supposed to be a
homa-:opathic agent. They all
experienced various sensations, of which the fol-
lowing is a
specimen:
A young m an in perfect health took eight
pills, containing a minute portion of charcoal,
and at the expiration of half an hour had noted
the following symptoms: headache, confusion,
imperfect vision, flushing of the face. On re~
peating the same dose, the symptoms recurred,
with violent perspiration.
4<. The other physician conducted his experi-
ments differentlyz he took every morning six
homoeopathic pills, and at the end of a certain
period asked his infrmiers if they were
willing
to do the same; they consented, and did not ex-
perience the slightest effect.
Thus, in the first experiment, the individuals
expecting to experience extraordinary sensa-
Hommomvrnv. 73
tions, from being required to note them down, do
not fail to feel some, as would be the case with
most persons under similar circumstances. On
the other hand, those who saw no effect pro-
duced on their superior by the pills, also take
them, and not expecting any particular sensa..
tions, do not experience any.
I might adduce various other examples, but
being desirous not to extend this article, I shall
content myself with briefly alluding to the ex-
periments of M. Andral at La Pitié.
A hundred and thirty individuals were
treated by homoeopathic remedies in the pre~
sence of numerous witnesses. The regimen re-
commended by Hahnemann was
strictly adhered
to, and the prescriptions prepared by a homaeo-
pathic chemist. The experiments were of two
kinds; first, to ascertain whether symptoms can
be produced in healthy persons by medicines
which cure similar symptoms when arising from
other causes. Bark was one of the firstisub-
stances chosen, and its various preparations were
taken by ~M. Andral and ten other persons at
first in homceopathic doses, which produced no
efi'ect ;i then in ordinary doses, which were gra~
dually increased up to from six to twenty-four
grains of sulphate of quinine per day. None of
these persons experienced the least symptom of
E
74 Hom mon 'rx-nf;
an attack of intermittent fever; the only effects
produced by these large doses were
slight indis-
position and headache, in some whose stomachs
were not so
strong as the rest.
Aconitum, which, according to the hommo-
pathists, is of superior eiiicacy to blood-letting
in febrile diseases, was tried, and produced no
effect. Sulphur was also tried by several per-
sons, without any eruption being produced on
the skin.
Thus the statement that remedies cause dis-
eases
resembling those which they cure, is an
assertion utterly groundless.
The second kind of experiments was made
to ascertain whether homoeopatic remedies would
in any case affect the progress of disease.
Several cases of intermittent fever were treated
homceopathically. Some got well at the end of a
certain period, which would in all probability
have been the case, had no remedies been em-
ployed: in other cases no effect was
produced,
and, on the usual method of treatment being
adopted, the patients got rapidly well. Similar
results were obtained in treating febrile diseases
and several chronic complaints, except that in
some cases the patients got worse while under
the homoeopathic system.
The _homoeopathists in Paris having petif
I-IOM(EOPATHY. 75
tioned the Minister of the Interior to permit
the establishment of dispensaries for the treat-
ment of patients by the homaeopathic method,
the minister requested the opinion of the Aca-
démie de Médecine on the subject. The reply
of that body is made in the following terms :-
-
"
MoNs1EUn LE MINISTRE,
'
"
Homoeopathy, which presents itself to you
at the present time as a
novelty, is not a new
thing. For more than twenty-five years this
doctrine has wandered here and there ;-first in
Germany, then in Prussia, afterwards in Italy,
and now in France; seeking everywhere, though
in vain, to introduce itself as a branch of medi-
cine.
"
The time of the Académie has been re-
peatedly taken up with the subject, and, more-
over, there are but few of its members who have
not sought to ascertain its basis, and its effects.
"
With us, as elsewhere, homaeopathy has
been subjected, in the first place, to logical ex-
amination, which has exhibited in it a formal
opposition to the best-established truths, a
great
number of striking contradictions, and many of
those palpable absurdities which inevitably ruin
all false systems in the opinion of enlightened
E 2
76 Houazorzvrnv.
persons, but which are not always a sufficient
obstacle to the credulity of the multitude.
"With us, as elsewhere, homaaopathy has
also been subjected to the trial of facts, and put
to the test of experience. Observation, faith-
fully interrogated, has furnished the most cate-
gorical answers; for if it be admitted that
some
examples of cure have occurred while
under the homceopathic treatment, it has been
ascertained that the success is justly attribu-
table to the bias of a weak imagination on the
one hand, and to the remedial powers of the
constitution on the other. Observation has
also shown the great danger of homaeopathy in
frequent and serious cases of disease, where the
physician may do as much harm, and cause no
less injury, byinactive measures, as
by those
which are
directly prejudicial.
"
Reason and experience are
consequently
united to repel a similar doctrine, and counsel
that it should be left to itself and its own re-
sources.
"
If the precedent were once established, ap-
plication would be made for dispensaries for
Mesmerism, animal magnetism, Brownism, and
other conceptions of a heated imagination.
"
From these considerations and motives, the
-Homazowvruy. 77
Académie opines that government should refuse
to entertain the petition which has been ad-
dressed to it in favour of hommopathy."
Having heard of the existence of a homoeo~
pathic hospital at Leipzic, the head-quarters of
the doctrine, I had the curiosity to visit it during
my brief sojourn in that city last July, and was
directed to a small house in one ofthe suburbs,
with an
inscription on the outside denoting its
destination. I had no
difiiculty in obtaining
admission, and was
accompanied through the
house by the assistant homceopathist, the princi-
pal being in the country.
From what I had previously heard, I expected
to see at least from thirty to forty beds occupied
by patients, and was somewhat surprised to find
that the house only contained eight, of which
but one was
occupied by a
phthisical patient,
who had been there several months without any
arnelioration. There were, however, five other
patients able to get about, viz. a case of chronic
swelling of the foot; one of delirium tremens,
which had also been a
long time under treat-
ment by arnica and hyoscyamus, in doses of the
decillionth part of a
grain, which I was
gravely
assured produced sound sleep; a
young girl,
with no other complaint than deranged menstrua-
78 uomzoraruv.
tion, who had also been some months in the
house; a case of necrosis of the tibia treated by
the internal exhibition of homoeopathic reme-
dies; and a' woman with a cutaneous disease,
of a
syphilitic nature., who had been treated with
sulphur, carbon, gold, and other homaeopathic
remedies, since the month of February, but with
little advantage, as the disease appeared to me
likely to he interminable under a similar system,
During my visit two or three out-patients
presented themselves. One of these was a
healthy boy, with tinea capitis, for which he had
been taking homceopathic globules since Febru-
ary, the hair having been allowed to grow, and
no external application having been used. The
appearance of the patient's head did not afford
any favourable evidence of the good effects of
the treatment, andl should imagine the disease
was much in the same state as when he first
applied for re1ief.*
"
Some of the homceopathists of the present day
have abandoned several of the more absurd propositions
of Hahnemann as untenable. The principles of their
practice are, however, the same; viz. expectation, and
the influencing the patients' imagination by leading
them to suppose they are taking some extraordinary
remedies. In all the cases which are bruited about,
and published as recoveries by the homeopathic me-
thod, the advantage derived may be ascribed to the
uonmorxrnv. 79
above causes, assisted by a more strict attention to
modes of living and regimen ; and in many instances is
only temporary, as in the case of a noble individual,
who has been repeatedly said in the papers to be cured,
or greatly relieved, by different modes of treatment. It
is the nature of several complaints, especially of a
nervous character, to be better or worse at different
times or seasons, and to offer complete intermissions
during a
longer or shorter period, and in these cases
the amelioration is generally attributed to the remedy
the patient happens to be taking at the time.
80 im-°LUENcE or 'run
NOTES
ILLUSTBATIVE OF THE INFLUENCE OF THE
MIND ON THE BODY.
'l`1-IE great influence exerted by the imaginative
and other mental faculties, on the exercise of
the corporeal functions, and in the production
and removal of disease, has not received from
medical practitioners the degree of consideration
to which its importance entitles it, notwithstand-
ing the effects of this influence are
daily seen in
the practice of medicine, and the subject has
occupied the pens of several eminent individuals,
both in ancient and more recent times. It is not
my intention to enter at any length into the
consideration of this subject, which would alone
suflice to fill a volume; but I purpose adding,
as a
pendant to the remarks already made, a few
illustrations, by 'which it will be seen, that this
influence has not been over estimated in the pre-
ceding pages.
`
The faculty which enhances enjoyment by
MIND ox T1-:E BODY. _Sl
anticipation, and to which the civilised world
owes so
large a share of its happiness,
"
Whose might
Can make the desert heavenly fair,
And fill with forms divinely bright
The dreary vacancy of air,"
is also unfortunately instrumental in the produc-
tion of much of the misery that exists, by the
gloomy foreboding of anticipated evils, or
by the
ideal aggravation of present misfortunes. The
direful conseq1ences of this instrumentality are
strongly exhibited during the prevalence of some
epidemic diseases, which are known to affect indi-
viduals, and to be fatal in proportion to the degree
of apprehension that prevails; whereas medical
men and others, who under these circumstances are
less liable to be inlluenced by the terrors of an
excited imagination. are much less liable to be
attacked by the disease; or if attacked, the ter-
mination is favourable in a large proportion of
cases. The happy effects of a well-grounded
confidence are
daily brought under the observa-
tion of the practitioner in the recovery of patients
under the most unfavourable circumstances; on
the other hand, in many instances, and especi-
ally after' accidents and operations, though the
circumstances appear to be most favourable for
recovery, yet if the morale of the patients be
so influenced as to make them apprehend an un-
E 5
82 _
INFLUENCE or-' 'rua
favourable termination, how frequently does it not
occur, that their prognostications are verified by
the result ? In like manner, predictions of the
occurrence of disease or death at a certain
period, by the hold they obtain on the person's
imagination, occasionally bring about their own
fulfilment. It is mentioned in Mr. Colquhoun's
work, previously quoted, that Hearne, in his
journey, states,
"
Such is the confidence of the
North American Indians in professors of the
magic art, that they appear capable of curing
the most serious diseases, without resorting to
any physical means; and the fear of their
malignity plunges individuals into diseases
which often terminate fatally. One of these
Indians, Matonabbi by name, conceiving that
Hearne was in possession of supernatural powers,
requested him to kill by magic a man
against
whom he entertained a
deadly hatred. To
oblige him, Hearne, without dreading any bad
consequence, drew some
figures upon a
piece of
paper and gave it to Matonabbi, advising him to
make it as
public as
possible. Matonabbi's
enemy, who enjoyed perfectly good health, had
scarcely heard of the paper, when he became
melancholy, drooped, refused food, and died in a
few days."
'
The author of the "Anatomy of Melancholy"
MIND ON THE sony. 83
thus expresses himself on this subject :
"
Some-
times a
strong conceit or
apprehension will take
away diseases, in both kinds it will produce real
effects. Men, if they see but another man trem-
ble, giddy, or sick of some disease, their appre-
hension and fear is so
'strong in this kind,
that they will have the same disease; or if bv
some soothsayer, wise man, fortune-teller, Jr
physician, they be told they will have such a
disease, they will so
seriously apprehend it, that
they will instantly labour of it. If it be told
them they shall be sick on such a
day, when
that day comes they will surely be sick, and
will be so
terribly ailiicted, that sometimes they
die upon it."
Again, "As some are so molested by phantasie,
so some again by fancy alone, and a
good mn-
ceit, are as
easily cured. We see
commonly the
toothache, gout, falling4sickness,Aand many such
diseases, cured by spells, words, characters, and
charms. All the world knows there is no virtue
in such charms, but a
strong conceit and
opinion alone."
I need scarcely allude to the more common
effects ofthe imagination and moral impressions
known to every one, as illustrated in the produc-
tion of blushing, paleness, fainting, privation of
appetite, disturbance of digestion, and other
84- INFLUENCE or 'rue
functions# but it is too often overlooked, that
similar impressions are
very frequently instru-
mental in the production and keeping up of a
large proportion of chronic diseases; hence, a
cause of the intractableness of many of them
under a treatment exclusively medicinal.
A great' many of the disorders of the digestive
apparatus met with in a
metropolis like London
are induced and kept up by anxiety, the
worry of particular avocations, and the annoy-
ances and perplexities to which the professional,
mercantile, and trading classes of the commu-
nity are
especially subjected. Such complaints
may persist, or be constantly recurring for an
indefinite period,deriving but temporary allevia~
tion from medicine; but they not unfrequently
cease
spontaneously, if any circumstance occur
to counteract the influence of the above-men~
tioned causes; as
partial change of habits, a
short residence in the country; the undertaking
of a
journey of pleasure, &c. The same
may
be said of the class of nervous disorders, many
of which are occasioned and kept up solely by
causes of a moral nature, as seen in the occur-
rence of some convulsive affections, viz. hyste-
ria from mental emotion or
antipathy, epilepsy
' "
Unquiet meals make ill digestions."
Snaxsranm.
MIND ON THE sony. 85
from fright, &c. Deep sorrow, disappointment,
and other analogous causes, are but too often the
latent occasion of complaints which long resist
the efforts of medicine, for the intractableness
of which no obvious reasons can be assigned,
and by their depressing inHuence on the vital
powers, especially of the nervous
system, are
frequently productive of some of the most dis-
tressing organic diseases to which humanity
is subject. The complaint termed nostalgia,
or home-sickness, is a striking example.-
In these cases the individual, torn away
from his country to fight or labour in
distant lands, droops and pines away without
exhibiting the symptoms of disease of any par-
ticular organ, and ultimately dies, unless a
hope be held out of his speedy return, when the
cure will sometimes be effected as if by enchant-
ment."" With how much greater ease and light-
ness are all the bodily functions performed,
when the mind is at ease and we are in good
*
One of our most justly esteemed poets has thus
alluded to this malady:
"
The intrepid Swiss who guards a
foreign shore,
Condemn'd to climb his mountain cliffs no more,
If chance he hear the song so sweetly wild,
Which on those cliH's his infant hours beguil'd,
Melts at the long-lost scenes which round him rise,
And sinks a martvr to repentant sighs."
Pleasures of Memory.
86 INFLUENCE or run
spirits? How languid, on the contrary, is the
flow ofthe "
nimble spirits in the arteries
"
when
we are "besieged with sable-coloured melan-
choly !" and how much more liable are we under
these circumstances to be affected by deleterious
agencies ofa physical nature? In an
advancing
army, flushed with conquest, disease rarely ap-
pears; it, however, the same
body of men be
dispirited by defeat and on a retreat, disease to
a
great extent will not fail to manifest itself,
should they be exposed to any of 'its more
common causes. The British troops in Wal-
cheren continued tolerably healthy, notwith-
standing the deleterious influence of the cli-
mate, till circumstances occurred to depress
their morale. The same effects were seen on a
larger scale on the retreat of the French from
Moscow, as there is no doubt, that had the
army been advancing with a
prospect of good
quarters, instead of being in retreat and undis-
ciplined, they would have supported the priva-
tions consequent on the rigour of the season
and scantiness of food, with the loss of a com_
paratively small number of men.
This power of the imagination and of faith
is constantly exemplified in the action of reme-
dies, especially in diseases of a nervous cha-
racter. Thus we see that many patients, and
more
especially nervous and hypochondriacal
mum on 'nn sony. 87
ones, often find themselves much better after
first consulting a new medical attendant. Fresh
remedies, when first tried, are often attended
with a remarkable amelioration, and not unfre-
quently arrest the attacks of epilepsy, or miti-
gate their severity; particularly if the patient
had been led to expect great advantage from
their administration. In these cases, however,
as the novelty subsides, and the patient becomes
more accustomed to the remedy, its good effects
frequently cease to be manifest!
Patients who entertain an idea that they re-
quire a course of mercury, will often derive
great benefit, and will actually feel a soreness
of the mouth, accompanied with an increased
"
Delille, in alluding to the effects of Mesmerism
says-
"
Tous se felicitoient de leurs metamorphoses,
La vielle Eglé croyoit voir renaitre ses roses,
Le viellard decrepit se ranimant peu-5.peu
D'un retour de santé menacoit son neveu ;
Le _jeuiie homme a vingt ans, ridé par la molesse,
Se promettoit encore quelques _jours de jeunesse.
Mesmer courut ailleurs portér ou art aimable
Chaque malade au fond de son appartement
Tout seul avec ses maux s'entei-ra tristement,
Et des remedes vains implorant la puissance,
Il perdit le plus doux en perdant Pesperance."
L'ImAe1NA'rxoN.
88 INFLUENCE or THE
ilow of saliva, on taking pills composed of
bread or other inert substances, provided they
believe themselves to be taking mercury. It is
stated in the "
Dictionnaire des Sciences Médi-
cales," that a
physician gave a
peasant a pre-
scription for a
purgative, saying,
"
Take this."
The man, on his return home, actually swal-
lowed the paper, which produced a similar
effect to what would have resulted, had he
taken the drug prescribed. He returned in a
day or two to the physician, to say that the
purgative had quite cured him. At the period
of Corvisart's lecturing on the diseases of the
heart, many of the students became affected
with palpitation and other symptoms of these
diseases, and it is well known that when
medical students and non-professional persons
read descriptions of diseases, they often be-
come affected with some of the symptoms;
or, if they had previously any of the symp-
toms about which they had been reading, these
are almost constantly aggravated from their
attention being more
strongly directed towards
them. The power of the imagination and men-
tal impressions in producing hysteria is well
known. Analogousiniiuences, and an exertion
of the will, also frequently prevent the recur-
rence of attacks of this disease. On the same
_ mmn ON Tm: BODY. 89
principle are
easily explicable the cures which
have been performed from persons being placed
on thetombs of saints, by touching holy relics; by
pilgrimages to particularplaces ; as in those affect-
ed with St.Vitus's dance, who were cured in the
sixteenth century by a
pilgrimage to a
chapel
dedicated to this saint near Ulm. I have given,
in my work ou nervous disorders, several cases
of partial or total paralysis, in which the per-
sons have continued helpless for years, and have
ultimately recovered either spontaneously or
after some
strong moral impression; but as it
would be somewhat out of place to cite here
detailed. medical cases, I prefer illustrating
the remarks made by a quotation or two
from a recent work in general circulation :-
"
A large body of sailors resorted to Sadler's
Wells theatre one night, and amongst them a
man who was deaf and dumb, and had been so
for many years. This man was
placed by his
shipmates in the front row in the gallery.
Grimaldi was in great force that night, and
although the audience were in one roar of
laughter, nobody appeared to enjoy the fun
and humour more than this poor fellow. As
the scene
progressed, Grimaldi's tricks and
jokes became still more irresistible, and at
length, after a violent peal of laughter and
90 INFLUENCE OF 'rms
applause, which quite shook the theatre, in
which the dumb man
joined most heartily, he
suddenly turned to his mate who sat next him,
and cried out with much glee-' What a d-d
funny fellow l'-'Why, Jacl<,' shouted the
other, starting back with surprise,
'
can
you
speak P'-'Speak,' returned the other, 'ay,
that I can, and hear too.' The man, who ap-
peared an
intelligent and well-behaved fellow,
said, that in the earlier part of his life he could
both speak and hear very well, and that he
attributed his deprivation of the two senses to
the intense heat of the sun in the quarter of
the world from which he had recently returned.
He added, that he had for a
long time felt a
powerful anxiety to express his delight at what
was
passing on the stage, and that after some
feat of Grimaldi's, which struck him as
parti-
cularly amusing, he had made a strong effort to
deliver his thoughts, in which, to his own
great
astonishment, no less than that of his comrades,
he succeeded."
When Grimaldi, worn out by premature old
age, was almost deprived of the use of his
limbs, so as to be scarcely able to stand or walk,
he was visited by a friend, and when, with much
difficulty, he had descended from his bed-room
to the parlour, his friend informed him, with
MIND ON THE sony. 91
great care and delicacy, that his son was
dead.
"
In one instant every feeling of decrepitude
and bodily weakness left him, his limbs reco-
vered their original vigour, all his lassitude
and debility vanished, a
difficulty of breathing,
under which he had long laboured, disappeared,
and, starting from his seat, he rushed to his
wife's chamber, tearing, without the smallest
difliculty, up a
Bight of stairs, which a
quarter
of an hour before it had taken him ten minutes
to climb. He hurried to her bedside, told her
that her son was dead, heard her first passionate
exclamation of grief, and, falling into achair, was
once
again an enfeebled and crippled old man.
The following case recently appeared in the
papers, and was headed
"MIRACLE IN RIVER Ousn.-Charlotte
Beeby, late of Elstow, aged twenty-five, an inha-
bitant of Biddenham, has for the last five years
been a
cripple, with an affection of the back,
the lower limbs being perfectly paralysed. The
affection had resisted the treatment of many
practitioners. Being acquainted with the epis-
copalian church doctrines, taught by the Rev.
Mr. Matthews of this town, she conceived that
if she were
baptized by that gentleman she
ng,
`
'
Memoirs of Joseph Grimaldi.
92 mrnuaucn or 'rms
would recover. Accordingly, the reverend
gentleman, at half-past ten at night, in the pre-
sence of a hundred spectators, converts to his
doctrines, proceeded to the river Biddenham,
whither the diseased person was removed in a
cart, as usual when moved about. Mr. Mat-
thews, going into the river to support her, im-
mersed her in the water, when she immediately
said, '
Leave me go, I can walk," and walked
out of the water, and ran some distance up a
hill, till she was exhausted, but she has retained
the use of her limbs ever since."
Analogous cases to the above, occurring prin-
cipally in females, appear from time to time in
the public papers, and are not unfrequently
considered by the ignorant as evidences of the
special interposition of a
supernatural agency.
I might adduce other examples from my own
observation, but think it sufficient to refer to
the case of paralysis which I have related as
cured after animal magnetisation; the pa-
tient having, as in the above instance, a
strong
conviction that the process would cure her.
The paralytic patients cured by being placed on
the tomb of the Abbé Paris, laboured under a
similar affection, which I have elsewhere ex-
plained as
depending upon a
debility of the
faculty of volition, not unfrequently continuing
Mum ON 'rim nonv. 93
for months or
years, and in many cases ulti-
mately yielding to time or to the occurrence of
circumstances of a moral nature, which excite
this faculty to action. The case of loss of voice
above related, as well as that under the head of
homaeopathy, cured by starch pills, which the
patient supposed to be hommopathic remedies,
are of a similar nature, the muscles concerned
in the formation of the voice being deprived of
their power for a
longer or shorter period.
Imitation and habit iniiuence in a remark-
able manner the actions of the economy in
health and disease. How frequently do we see
one
person imitating the gestures of another,
without being aware of the circumstancef*
Children, in whom the imitative faculty is most
strong, readily adopt the gestures and even the
tone of voice of their parents or other persons
with whom they are associated. The action of
yawning when we see others yawn is a familiar
example of the power of imitation. Muscular
twitching of parts, squinting and stammering,
are not unfrequently acquired by imitation,
and are
subsequently kept up by habit for an
* "
It is certain that wise bearing or ignorant car-
riage is caught, as men take diseases one of anotheri
therefore let men take heed of their company."-
HENBY IV., Part 2.
u i
94- INFLUENCE or 'rms
indefinite period. St. Vitus's dance occurs in
some children in consequence of their associ-
ating with others affected with this complaint,
which is in many cases
kept up for a
long time
by habit alone. The same may be said of
epilepsy, hysteria, and other nervous affections.
It is a matter of common observation, that if
one female have an
hysterical attack, in a
place
where several are
congregated, as in the ward
of an hospital, or in any public assembly,
others frequently become similarly affected.
The mode adopted by Boerhaave of arresting an
epidemic of a convulsive nature, has been re-
peatedly quoted by medical writers, as illus-
trating the power of imitation and of moral
impression over these disorders. A female
labouring under attacks of an
epileptic nature
was placed in the ward of a
public institution,
with other females, who all became affected in
a similar manner, and the complaint continued
to prevail epidemically, till Boerhaave assem-
bled all the patients together, and heating be-
fore their eyes a number of iron rods, expressed
his determination to apply a red-hot rod on the
face of the first person who should have an
attack. None of them had any recurrence,
and the epidemic ceased as if by magic. Epi-
demics of a somewhat similar kind have at
MIND ON 'rm-: nonv. 95
different times been propagated by imitation
over a considerable extent of country; as in
the case of the dancing mania, which extended
so
widely in the sixteenth century. Laughter
is also frequently excited by imitation, and
sometimes under circumstances but little likely
to occasion merriment. Wesley relates, that
paroxysms of uncontrollable laughter occurred
at some of his prayer-meetings. He himself,
and some of his most zealous followers, could
not resist the infection, but laughed as
loudly
as the rest. He accounts for the circumstance
by ascribing it to the influence of Satan.
The power of habit is further seen in the
facility with which persons, under certain cir-
cumstances, accustom themselves to bear with
but little inconvenience extremes of tempera-
ture; to digest with facility articles of food
which would cause an attack of illness to those
less accustomed to their use; to require but a
small quantity of sleep. By this power the eye
becomes enabled to discern minute objects in com-
parative obscurity. The ear ofa North American
Indian applied to the ground, can hear advancing
footsteps at a distance that appears incredible
to Europeans. After the loss of one sense the
other senses become, by the habit of cultivation,
extremely susceptible to impressions made on
/'l
96 INFLUENCE or 'rms
their organs. *When a
person is deprived of his
hands, the sense of touch may become surprising-
ly developed in other parts of the body, as the
feet. Many diseases are
greatly under the influ-
ence of habit, especially epilepsy, hysteria, and
others which occur at periodical intervals. The
paroxysms of an intermittent fever are some-
times kept up by habit. Abortion is liable to
recur at a similar period of pregnancy from this
iniluence. In these cases the disorders are
often kept up until some circumstance occurs
which tends to break the chain of habitual re-
currence. Moral impressions have frequently
this effect, as seen in the cases related in the
preceding pages. Change of scene and mode
of living also have a beneficial effect in many
instances. Some remedies, which produce an
energetic action, and other means in which the
patient is led to place great confidence, produce
an advantageous result in some cases, while,
in others which have resisted various remedial
measures, time alone etfects the cure.
Those individuals in whom the faculty of voli-
tion is strong are but little liable to many slight
ailments which affect others, and are
frequently
enabled to overcome obstacles from which less
enterprising persons would shrink with alarm.
Most of those who have risen from obscurity,
MIND ON 'run nomr. 97
and have retained high command, have been
distinguished for energy of this faculty; as
Mahomet, Cromwell, Napoleon, who, inspir-
ing others with a
portion of their own enthu-
siasm by
"
Le pouvoir qu'un esprit vaste et ferme en ses desseins
Tient sur
l'esprit grossier des vulgaires humains,"
were enabled to
carry their vast projects of am-
bition into execution. The power of the will
is sometimes sufficient to overcome disease. I
have already adduced some instances: attacks
of hysteria are well known to be in great mea-
sure under the control of the will, and, by the
patient exerting this faculty, their occurrence
may often be prevented. Colonel Townsend
is said to have been able at will to suspend his
respiration, circulation, and sensation, throwing
himself into a state of trance, from which he
could recover himseli Many slight complaints
occurring in those who "
have not leisure to be
sick" speedily disappear, which in other per-
sons would have become aggravated by their
giving way, and allowing their attention to
dwell upon them.*
°
Northumberland, after Hotspur's defeat, is made
to say-
_
- . ---- "Even so my limbs,
Weakened with grief, being now
enraged with grief,
F
98 INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY.
I think it unnecessary to lengthen this work
by any further examples of the influence exerted
by the mind on the body, enough having been
said to enable those who have perused it to
form some estimate of the power of this influ-
ence, as also of the value to be set upon
Animal Magnetism and Homoeopathy.
Are thrice themselves; hence therefore thou nice crutch
A scaly gauntlet now, with joints of steel
Must glove this hand : and hence thou sickly quoif,
Thou art a guard too wanton for the head,
Which princes t1ush'd with conquest aim to hit."
H unt IV., Part 2.
LONDON:
isofrsou .mn nuns., enrwrnns, ssvov srlmrr, STRAND.
WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR,
WITH CRITICAL NOTICES.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND HOM(EO-
PATHY. 1st Edition.
"
This sensible and judicious pamphlet."-Monthly Review.
"
It is plain that s system of this sort will be hailed by
quscks as s fertile source for the delusion of fools and in-
crease of their own
plunder and profits : and Mr. Lee deserves
ccmmendsticn for having exposed, and it is hoped prevented,
the progress of it in this country."-Times.
"
Mr. Lee has completely exposed and refuted these two
most absurd doctrines, the offspring of ignorance and impos-
tnre."-Literary Gazette.
"
It ought be the death-blow to the infamous quackery on
these two ridiculous subjects."-Metropolitan Magazine.
"
In this little work, Mr. Lee has
very properly exposed
the monstrous humbuge of these systems] -Metropolitan Con-
servative Journal.
'
Jus! Published. 8vo. Price 7s.
ATREATISE on some NERVOUS DISOR-
DERS, being chiefly intended to illustrate those varieties
which stimulate Structural Disease.
Second Edition. Re-written and eonsidsrally Enlarged,
with an Appendix of Cases.
John Churchill, Princes street, Soho.
NOTICIB Ol THB FIRST EDITION.
"
Mr. Lee's work is of s practical nature, and worthy of at-
tention."-Medico-Chirurgical Review.
"
We are therefore grateful for an additional infomation
that comes from such respectable authority as Mr. Lee, who,
though he addresses himself more particularly to the junior
members of the profession, may fairly claim the sttention of
old and experienced practitioners."-Lfedical and Physical
Journal, July, 1883.
NOTICE! Ol' THE SECOND IDITION.
"
Mr. Lee has presented us with a
very useful and clever
treatise in the volume under notice. He IB
evidently well ae-
quginted with his subje¢1_".-Mmnluy Magazin.
"
A second edition of a valuable treatise in which those
Works by the same Author.
Nervous Aifections which simulate structural disease are
treated of with skill and ability."-Literary Gazette.
"
The way in which the author ofthe work before us has
treated his
suléject,
is marked by much practical good sense.
Mr. Lee is evi ently little of a theorist."-New.
"
We have always considerable delicacy in declaring our
judgment on
any medical work that does not come recom-
mended by the high reputation of some scientinc writer. We
have been so frequently deceived by medical works, and we
have seen so much quackery, chicanery,and imposture among
medical writers, that it is with reluctance we take up our pen
on the subject. We consider that Mr. Lee is free from any
of this aifectation and pretension, and his work seems written
in a
.plain
and candid spirit of truth."-Metropolitan Conserva-
tive ournal.
"
This is a second edition of a work, which although the ex-
planation it gives of certain phenomena connected with certain
disorders is open to discussion, deserves attentive consideration
from all professional men. lt is well written, its statements
are clear, and it exhibits an intimate acquaintance of the whole
bearings of the inquiry."-Atlas.
"
We have the second edition of Mr. Lee's treatise before
us: his remarks on Hysteria and Epilepsy are acute. We
particular
invite the attention of parents to the remarks on
emale education."-Sunday Tima.
TWO LECTURES on LITHOTRITY and the
BI-LATERAL OPERATION, publicly delivered inLondon,
Birmingham, Bath, and Bristol; to which is appended a
Translation of M. Chevallier's Essay on the Dissolution of
Stone in the Bladder. Reprinted from the "
London Medical
Gazette." Price 21. _
AN ACCOUNT of the MOST FREQUENTED
WATERING PLACES on the CONTINENT, and of the
Medicinal Application of their Mineral Springs; with Tables
of Analyses, and an
Appendix on English Mineral Waters.
Published by Longman and Co. Price 7s. Gd.
"
Thisis a very valuable volume. It is a good idea, and
Mr. Lee deserves much credit for the industr with which he
has collected, and the cleamess with which he has arranged, his
materials."-Literary Gazette. .
"A volume which may he of use to the public generally, 'as
well as to the medical profession."-Court Journal.
