{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__peabody___a_world_of_wonders.pdf","mytitle":"A World Of Wonders","mylang":"de"}
A
'VORLD OF 'VONDERS;
OR
DIVERS DEVELOF:\IEXTS,
SHO\'i"ISG mE
THOROUGH TRIU~IPH
OF
.
AN I l\1 AL l\1AG NET I S l\T
NEW E~GLAND.
!LL"CSTRATED EY THE
POWER OF PREVISION
IS
1\IRS. MATILDA FOX,
ASD THE
POINT OF THE PENCIL,
BY
D, C. JOH:XSTO~.
BY JOEL R. PEABODY, lU. B.
Fellow of the Coliege of 1Pothecaries.
"\Vi;c men suffer, good men grieve,
Kn:'lVes invent, and tOols belie,•e j
Help us, ye Powers ! send nid unto us,
Or knaves and fools will quite u::~do us."
Third Etlltlon.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY ROBERT S. DAVIS,
No. 77 \V'ashington ~troet .
1838.
.)
Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1838,by
RonERT S. DAvis,
in the Clerk's office of the District Court of Massachusetts.
11tb/islt~4u' 1_1·Iicfir,/ .._f_])(tv/s
oO.STON •
TO THE PEOPLE OF THE
UNITED STATES.
Ladies and Gentlcnwn,-
THosE already belieYing in the
phenomena of Animal Magnetism, of
which this production expressly treats,
will have no occasion for reading it
to confirm their faith. Persons not
open to conviction, can deriYe no ben-
. efit from the deYclopments which
characterize the memoir.
It is ardently desired that Col.
Stone, of New-York, will not prefix
notes, or add an appendix to any of.
iv PREFACE.
the numerous editions through which
this volume is predestined to run ;
and lastly, the author presents his best
respects to the fraternity of poets,
humbly beseeching them not to make
a. theatrical spectacle of his scientific
efforts, till after the termination of
the Seminole 'Var.
JOEL R. PEABODY.
Boston, February, 1838.
CONTENTS .
CHAPTER.
1.- l\Iiscellaneous Developments.
II.-A Philosophical Experiment.
111.-lnteresting Diseo\·eries.
IV.- Something Surprising.
V.-Researches in the :\Iounds.
VI.-Pathological Inquiries.
VII.-Peeps at great People.
VIII.-'\Vonders ofother ·w orlds.
IX.-Extraordinary Sights.
X .- Unthought of l\Iatters.
XI.-A Jaunt to the Sun.
XII.-Local Learning.
P .AGE.
5
24
36
47
55
67
'iS
S7
105
126
134
146
CHAPTER I.
MISCELLANEOUS DEVELOPMENTS.
NoTWITHSTANDING the contradictory state-
ments of physicians in relation to the phenomena
of Animal Magnetism, and in the face of that
most potent of all engines, the ridicule and mis-
representations of its foes, the writer of the fol-
lowing pages has felt it his duty to present the
community the results of his own observations in
this splendid field of philosophy, with a hope that
candid inquirers, solicitous for the progress of
truth, will give him an impartial reading.
For more than a year after l\Ions. Poyen had
began to excite the public attention by 'his lec-
tures, I had so liule confidence in the preten-
tious of magnetizers, that I scarcely read a para·
graph of all that was reported of his extraordina-
ry powers in this newly-discovered domain. In-
deed, the innumerable and surprising exhibitions
I
6 llllSCELLANEOUS DEVELOP~IENTS.
in Europe, as well as in New England, since
the reri~·ification of Animall\lagnetism from the
profound slumber into which it was thrown by
our countryman, Dr. Franklin, and his learned
associates of France, did not even begin to inter-
est me; 1101-," in fact, had I any confidence in the
various reports, till an accidental circumstance,
in itsel r, nut very illlpurtant, completely chaugcd
my l'iell's. 1f I was at one time a decided, un-
compro111ising sceptic, the change wrought on
my mind to make me a believer, nay, a warm
disciple and a rnaguetizer, was a slow process.,
After having hnd many personal interviews
with the mHgnetizers of H bode r~!Jnd, I am ftdly
persuaderl oftheir ho11e:;t endeavors to promote
the cause of philnnt hropy as well as science; yet
I have not been inflnenced to receive anything on
hearsay; on the contrary, alone, as it were,
unaided by the experience of others, and solely
intent on the momentous question, Is there any
deception or not, in all tltis ?-The results of my
inquiry are now gi1·eu to tl.e world.
Surd,v, no person of common honesty could
peruse Dr. Belden's narrative of Jane C. Rider,
and discrPdit it. Nor is it possible to be in com-
pany with l\liss Bracket, and not at once discov-
er that she is an abused, injured woman. Her
~JISCELLANEOUS DEVELOP~IENTS. 7
po1rers are of a manellous character, and be-
cause they are so, and but a few or no cases on
record are preci:::ely lil\e it, the whole coun-
try, fiJrsooth, joins in the persecution, and pro·
nounce her an impostor.
Again,-The lady in Stanstead, Lower Cana-
da, whose faculty of seeing ·through opaque bo-
dies, however dense or thick, was at first disput-
ed, but was ultimately completely established.*
As before remarked, I h are been alone in my
investigations, so far as it regards the preoence
of those prepared, by their f'ducatiun a nd sci-
ence, to an alyze the Eubject. F or a long ti111e I
hare caiefully watched, and patiently listcued to
the accounts of others ; still, had not my 0 \\'11
eyes, and my own indi,·idual understanding been
perfectly satisfied, I should not hare 1·entured
upon the hazardous enterprise of appearing in
the character of au author. I nc11hcr court no-
* Perhaps the reacler is not aware that this case quitz
surpassed the somnambulists of Pro,·idence. :L\one of
those can percei1·e objects beyond the ordinary compass of
human vision, unless the soul lea,·es the body with one of
the ft,·e senses in train, viz. the eye-sight. .!\Irs. Carr, on
the other hand, remair.ed, both botly and spirit, on terra
firma, - being abundantly able to see at all distances, and
through all bodies, ho\\·e1•er compact, thick, dark or ob-
:-curely located.
8 llll5CELLANEOUS DEVELOPMENTS.
toriety in this way, nor am I afraid to relate
what is true, because it is a novelty.
I am well aware ofthe gross impositions which
have of late been practised by unprincipled ad-
venturers,* with the expectation of realizing a
profit in wholesaling falsehood. We are not to
give credit to all the extravagant declarations of
somnambulists, whose, revelations are nothing
more than the workings ofa vivid imagination.
1\Iany who have been operated upon by hon-
est, scientific magnetizers, have been, to a cer-
tain extent, self-deceived. Such, however, is the
constitution of the mind, that, under novel modes
• Perhaps all my readers have not beard that a fellow
by the name of Durant, a rope-maker, ofJersey city, has
attempted to blast the untainted reputation of several ex-
cellent ladies, by trying to make out that they were mag-
netic impostors. He is not to be credited on a single
point. About the year 1830, this same popinjay made a
ridiculous show of himself in an air-balloon, in which he
ascended from Boston common, in the presence of more
than fifty boys and loafers. The voyage terminated at
sea, some where near Portland, where he was found up
10 his knees in water. It was fully understood, by those
who knew him best, that the great height to "'hich he was
eleYated by a bag of wind, something over ten rods, per-
pendicular altitude, made him giddy, and he fell out of
the basket 11pon his head, which, being cracked before,
was quite ruined, as his late publication shows, by the
fall.
MISCELLANEOUS DEYEI.OP~IENTS. 9
(,f excitement, the imagination m·ersteps the
bounJaries of sober reason, aud, in the wildness
of unrestrained fancy, verily coneei1·es the crea-
tions of its o1m vagaries to be wlid fabrics of
reality.* In my intercourse with those suscep-
tible to the magnetic touch, I hal"e found some
who were affected in one way, and others in an-
other; but there has been a uniformity, in cer-
tain respects, in the phenomena.
Beiug in Boston, in July last, on business
which obliged me to remain orer six weeks, to
•
dance attendance on a court of law, through
the instrumentality of a few friends, who were
disposed to make the time pass as pleasantly
with me as the circumstance of heing at the
mercy of a party of Boston lawyers would admit,
-the l"eriest sharks on the contiuent,-I culti-
vated an agreeable acquaintance with many of
the most eminent physicians of the city.
In the course of occasional conversation at
• Some beautiful thoughts upon nothing at all, suppos-
ed, by their author, to be deeply metaphysical, may be
seen in Dr. B--'s latest miscarriage,-The Influence
of Religion, &c. For the profundity of his ignorance, in
anatomy, a School of!\Iedicine have given him a place
in the conclave of jackasses, called, by way ofeminence,
Faculty.
10 l\USCELLANEOUS DEVELOP~lENTS.
the house of Dr. B., distinguished for his ad-
vanced standing in the profession, though modest
and retiring as a child, we spoke of Animal
1\Iagnetism, then exceedingly rife; and, as on
all former occasions, I at once made myself
qune merry with all its advocates. For the first
time, to my extreme mortification, I had step-
ped upon forbidden ground; the Dr. answering
me with a singular air of gravity, that it was too
late in the day to offer opposition to the progress
of a well-established science.* He had not ~ly
been in close correspondence with l\Ions. Poyen,
but had subscribed for the Nantucket Requirer,
under the editorial charge of the Hon. l\Ir. Jeks,
which he considered to be the only independent
paper in America. He, the lion. 1\Ir. Jeks, was
a firm supporter of the cause, and a man compe-
* Dr. B. exercises the same talismanic influence overhis
patients that he. maintains over the juniors of the profes-
sion. The acuteness of his pathological acquirements
have long been the admiration ofthe better classes of so-
ciety. Itwas this gentleman whodiscovered a tape·worm
in an alderman's leg. In his youth, he commen~ed the
practice of medicine in the metropolis of New England,
under every species of ciscouragement, but finally tri
umphed over them all. To hi5 genius are farrier~ indebt-
ed for the beautiful idea of docking colts in utero, so that,
post partem, they will ever make an admirable appearance.
MISCELLA:SEOUS DEVELOP)!ENTS . }}
tent to fathom the whole arcanum ofthe learn-
ed.
'Since then, I have looked into the merits of
the Nantucket paper, and am happy to find it all
my friend had the independence to repre~ent.
'Vhile the Boston presses, to a fault, were either
silent, when the very atmosphere carried the in-
telligence, or disposed to cast a halo of ridicule
around those devoted to philosophical specula·
tions, involving the truth or falsity of Animal
Magnetism, the Nantucket people manifested
the noblest ardor in the cause of truth and hu-
manity, by giving their entire patronage to the
Requirer-which never would have been done
with such unparalleled unanimity, had the eru-
dite editor shown the least unwillingness to sus·
taiii the dignity of the Island in this particu-
lar.!!
• Mr. Jeks is an uncommonly laborious scholar. It is
rising of sixty years since he first became extensively
known throughout the United States by a masterly trea-
tise on whale-oil, in which he humanely proposed to take
those mighty animals by bowlings-or, a slip-noose 0\'er
their tails, instead of cruelly butchering them with har-
poons. '\Vhen brought alon)t-side, the sperm was to be
drawn from the skull through their ears, by an air..pump,
Being exceedingly corpulent, but restrained from taking
as much exercise as a due performance of his bodily func-
12 1\flSCELLANEOUS DEVF.LOPMENTS.
Through the instrumentality of Dr. B., I was
brought in contact with other professional gen-
tlemen of the city, who, as a general rule, were
disposed to look favorably upon the all-engross-
ing topic. Among others, Dr. E. was not the
least conspicuous. He had not only had sever-
al patients who were natural somnambulists, but
he had ascertained that he could actually pro-
duce the somnambulic slumber. A reference
was made to some half dozen families in which
he practised, for evidence of his success. This
was not aii,-I was invited, to my great delight,
to witness, in person::c, an exhibition of hi~ con-
trolling power over the senses of others.*
By an express in,·itation, on a sunny afternoon
near the first of August, accompanied by Dr. B.,
I called on a fashionable family, in a fashionable
section of the city, to have an introduction to a
tions require, he has resorted, within the last year, to
playing a hurdy-gurdy, on which he is without a rival.
Vide,-his proposals for publishing monthly, by subscrip-
tion, the Psyclwdinarnist, or the Bulletin of Animal Mag-
netism in America.
* No one would ever suspect that this accomplished phy-
sician could be duped; he is too well guarded by the nat-
ural endowmeuts, vulgarly called mother-wit. The sto-
ry told at his expense, how he purchased a horse with a
wooden tail, is not true.
MISCELLANEOUS DEVELOPMENTS. 13
l\Irs, 1\Iatilda Fox, who was reported to possess
second siglzt-or faculty of exerci:;ing a tele-
scopic vision.
The Scotch notion, that a person having the
gift of second sight can foretel events, as they
are predestined to occnr from the beginning of
time, belongs only to the lower orders. Intelli-
gent, reflecting persons, in that country, enter-
tain no such opinions; but, that the inuividual
so blessed can embrace an unlimited field of vis-
ion with his natural eyes, has never been ques-
tioned.
I have come to the conclusion that second
sight and Animal .Magnetism are essentially the
same, because the phenomena are precisely of
the same character. There is also a disease
known by the term catalepsy, which completely
prostrates the muscular system, the will not be-
ing able to exercise the slightest influence over
the nerves of volition while the paroxysm con-
tinues. During a continuance of a fit, a fact fa-
miliar to every practitioner of medicine, the
mind roams, as it were, with unrestrained free-
dom, apparently disembodied. 1\ow the phe-
nomena in these instances are exactly like those
in the other cases.
Dr. B. was quite happy in making all at ease
14 liiiSCELLANEOUS DEVELOP~IENTS.
with each other, wllich ga1·e me an opportunity
of saying that curiosity had prompted mP. to seek
the interview. In doing it, however, I had not
the slightest confidence in the stories related to
me of her prevision.
It is unnecessary to advert to the various top-
ics of conversation discoursed upon, from one pe-
riod to another, while my intercourse continued
with l\1 rs. Fox's polite and agreeable family cir·
cle. :i\Iy obligations are acknowledged for the
hundredth time.
A history of the discovery of the miraculous
endowment of clairroyance in this city, is sub-
stantially as follows:-
Some time in l\Iarch last, the discovery
was first made, and in this accidental manner.
As l\Irs. Fox was resting herself in an easy pos-
ture, in a stuffed rocking-chair, at the close of a
long evening, a favorite cat, which has long been
a fam1ly pet, luxuriating, whenever she chose,
on the parlor-rug, sprang into the lap of her mis-
tress, as she had frequently done before,-but as
she never had, till then,-after adjusting herself,
comme!lced licking 1\Irs. Fox's neck, just over
the larynx, that protuberance in front of the
throat, known, in an.atomical works, as the po-
mum adami. Now the larynx is that natural en-
l\USCELLAl\EOUS DEVELOP:'>!El\TS. 15
largement or vocal box tn 1~ bich those cords vi-
brate that produce voice. As the cat was not
particularly interrupted, and the sensation being
somewhat agreeable, Mrs. Fox was gradually
but positi1·ely and completely bereft of the pow-
er of wlition in the short period of a few
minutes. "'hen she es5ayed to raise one of her
bauds to thrust the cat away, she was utterly un-
able tu accomvlish it. Her mind was inten~ely
vigorou~, and she was perfectly conscious of eve-
ry transaction in the room. In this condition
she coutinued sitting full two hours, apparently
all the while iu a deep sleep. No one thought
of awaking her, though seven persons were seat-
ed rqund a centre table, because it was thought
by her daughters that she was uncommonly fa-
tigued. I must be allowed to digress a little
here, in order to portray the character of this
excellent woman.
l\Irs. Fox is a lady of cultivated mind, and has
always enjoyed the enviable reputation of being
both judicious and perfectly consistent in all the
various relations of life. From childhood she
was strictly educated conformably to the re-
quisitions of a rigid system of religious faith :
in fact, she belongs to the Orthodox profes:5ion.
'Vhen my acquaintance commenced with this la-
dy,who is.destined to fill no small space in the pub-
16 , MISCELLANEOUS DEVELOPMENTS.
lie eye, through future ages, she had passed the
forty-seventh year of her age'. A fine family of
three daughters and two sons, besides her hus-
band, Amasa A. Fox, Esq.,* with the exception
of a retinue of servants, constituted the house-
hold.
Devoted to the exercise of the domestic duties,
living by themselves, within themselves, yet
known for their liberality and benevolent exer-
tions in all philanthropic movements for rileliora-
tiug the condition of the poor, the distressed or
the needy, they would not have been known as
they must now necessarily be, to the world, had
it not have been for the simple circumstanceofthe
*Amasa A. Fox, referred to by permission, was born at
Portsmouth, N. H., but in early life became clerk to a
grocer in Green Street. From small means, he has truly
been the architect of his fame and fortnne. For many
years in succession, the enterprise he displayed in manu-
facturing lamp-black, will be remembered in Lynn with
heart-felt gratitude. Subsequently, he became a candi-
date for a standing committee-man, to regulate a city
which he had contributed to raise to its present rank and
independence. A deputation of shoe-makers presented
him an enormous boot, filled with a kind ofbuttery soup,
quaintly enough called, in New Hampshire, Stewed Qua-
ker. The boot is still kept as a m~mmoth trophy, in South
Market Street.
MISCELLANEOUS DEVELOP~IEl'iTS. 17
cat. l\Ir. Fox has an easy fortune, though he
still conducts an extensive maritime trade in the
l\Iediterranean.
Nothing, therefore, is more certain than this,·-
that nothing could be gained by practising a de·
ception of any kind. Certainly, for a mother,
ofall beings, to deliberately impose upon her own
children, without the slightest advantage accru-
ing from the deceit, is without a precedent.
These are preliminaries which I am solicitous
to have clearly understood, because the credibil-
ity of ~Irs. Fox must entirely outweigh any sian·
derous imputations which hereafter might be
sugge~ted, and, also, give a greater degree of
character to the facts and observations she has
collected in illustration of very many obscure
points in geology, meteorology, physics, and as·
tronomy.
But to return. Although the exciting cause
of this singular soporific condition of the volun-
tary muscles was removed, the cat having qui-
etly gone also to sleep on her knee, the active
mind of 1\Irs. Fox was still maintained in a most
unaccountable state of exaltation, as agreeable
as it was strange.
As before observed, though totally unable, by
an act ofthe sensorium, to move a limb,-being
2
18 llliSCELLANEOUS DEVELOP)JENTS.
actually in a cataleptic fit, her thoughts were to
an extraordiuary degree active. Instead of sim-
ply contemplating the company present, as would
seem to have beeu more natural, ~he was struck
with the new fact, that there were no appreciable
limitations to her extent of vision. " ' hatever
she thoughr of, if it had a tangible existence,
why it was instantly seen, not circumscribed in
outline and compressed to the dimensions of the
parlor, but the proportions were correct. She
compared it to a panoramic 1
·iew; all was flesh,
vivid, auimated. For example :-She has a
brother to whom she is tenderly attached, de-
voted to the ha7-ardous employment of the seal
fishery, whose long absence from p01t, more than
sc1•en months beyond the anticipated termination
of the voyage, was a frequent topic of conrersa-
tion. During the continuance of the catalepsy,
the mind happened to revert to him; when lo !
she saw Captain Swain walking the deck of a
low, long black brig.* She was completely
01•erjoyed at the sight, for she seemed to be by
his side, and in au extacy of surprise, asked
him how he did 1 This sleep-talking aroused
1\Ir. Fox and the daughters, one of whom jocooe·
* No sensible person supposes this to be the same vessel
seen by the Philadelphia pilots.
1\IISCELLA:>EOt:S DEVELOP~IEXTS. ]!)
ly remarking that "mother was dreaming aud i-
bly." Captain Swain had on slippers, wa s
smoking-and followed to nnd fro by a shaggy
dog, adorned with a brass collar, bearing the
engra1•ed letters, R. S. She saw the initials
distinctly; and that such a dog, having a collar
of that description was on board the 1·esssel in a
well-remembered latitude and longitude, hns
been satisfactorily proved by the log-book.
'Vhen this mar1·el was related, the identical
brass collar was brought to me for examination.
Surely, there was neither deception or a.llu-
sion in the matter. It was dist:nct rision, re-
quiring no more effort than any individual ordi-
narily makes in contemplating any scene within
the compass of ordinary I' ision.
'Vhilst thus apparently following her brother
in his movements ou deck, she bethollght herself
that it would be pleasant to take a peep into the
cabin. She there saw a young negress, perhaps
fifteen years of age, memling a pea-jacket, upon
which she fastened on three IYhite bone buttons.~~'
• Xothing gi1·es more general satisfaction to an inquir-
ing mind, than k11owing Cl'ery minute circumstance.
Mrs. C-- is a model in that respect, t·ide the Oasi~, or
Autobiography of eminent Xegroes. T he Frugal Hou~e­
wife is another masterly undertaking, in which items are
20 MISCELLANEOUS DEVELOPMENTS.
All this did not in the least perturbate Mrs.
Fox, for it seemed to her that she was verily
present. The coat, buttons and all, are now in
the family keeping. On the day and hour these
discoveri'es were made, the vessel was rising of
one thousand miles from land.
Contrary to my first intentions, not to make
frequent digressions, I am prompted to throw in
a few physiological speculations, for such they
may perhaps be considered, though I cannot
question the approach of a day when these para-
doxical phenomena, these unaccouutables in the
labyrinth of philosophy, will all be explained
upon perfectly lucid, intelligible principles.*
swollen into astounding facts~n domestic economy. This
lady was the discoverer of a new system of boarding·house
tactics, called Staying and Starving.
* Speaking of digressions, brings to recollection the re-
cent colloquial style of conversation in which the parties
neither look each other in the face, nor oftener than is
particularly required by the code civil, keep to the subject
of conversation more than seven seconds. Frequent skips
from one topic to another, shows a general acquaintance
with the world. Fine specimensof conversation are com-
mon in the New-Haven oyster cellars, supposed to have
been introduced there by under-graduates, who must have
acquired the elements of good breeding from the college
faculty, the highest tribunal of propriety in Connecticut.
llriSCr.LLA~EOUS DEYELOP~IENTS. 21
Finally, one of the daughters intimated that
their mother might be suffering from night-mare.
Upon this, another stepped up to the chair and
gently began to pat l\lrs. Fox on one cheek.
This changed the order of her sensations, and
she at once awoke, conscious as we all are of our
relations to things when suddenly roused from a
lethargic sleep.
As soon as l\Irs. Fox could, she related the
substance of the foregoing account, averring
that it was not a dream, but a reality; but this
only provoked a shout of merry laughter, par-
ticularly when l\Ir. Fox, after his dry manner,
said it was a cheap mode of journeying. In
<lescribing the thrilling sensation imparted to the
entire frame by the cat 's tongue, it struck the
young ladies as incredible, and by way of experi-
ment, they proposed that the cat should exert her
magical influences again, that the question might
be settled, whether the efforts of the imagination
or feline potency had, presto, imparted clair-
voyancy to their mother. *
* It must be kept in mind that l\Irs. Fox had been
thrown into an artificial cataleptic tit. Catalepsy is a
Latin \\·ord, derived from the English proper name, cat.
Nothing is more common now-a-days with scholars than
to Latinize our vernacular. This is very elegant, and
shows well for our literature abroad.
2~
22 MISCELLANEOUS DEVELOPMENTS.
Well, with regard to the digression, it is fa-
miliar to anatomists, that, on either side of the
larynx, are several extremely delicately-organized
nerves, having their origin in the brain, the cen-
tre ofthe nervous system, about \Yhich phrenolo.
gists know but little, though pretending to much.
These thread-like nerves traverse down the
neck to be widely distributed over the thoracic
and abdominal organs; such as the lungs, heart,
stomach, liver, spleen, and other viscera in those
vitalized regions. Of these, the par vagum and
sympathetic are quite interesting in a physio-
logical vi~w, on account of their extensi,·e dis-
tribution and the chain of sympathies maintain-
ed throughout the domain of the body by their
continually subdividing filaments.
Nearly opposite the vocal box, of itself a splen-
didly-constructed instrument, independently of
its peculiar function of producing sound, there
is an enlargement of the sympathetic nerves on
the two sides; a sort of bulging into a fleshy
kind of pad; above and below, the main shaft of
the nerve is of a firm texture and of a silvery
whiteness. These enlargements are technically
called ganglia. In fact, similar increases of vol-
ume in the smaller order of nerves are discover-
able in the chest, in the lumbar cavities, the ax-
l\IISCELLANEOUS DEVELOPMENTS. 23
ilia, &c., and fulfil, it is safely conjectured, the
office of vital centres. In the worms, there are
no other brains than these, spread along the line
of the back, showing an elementary advance to-
wards the perfect brain of man. At the se1·eral
locations of these ganglia or cerebral centres, we
are to seek for cert2in effects on the body and
mind, through their instrumentality, as external
impres~ions are modified by their agency almost
indefinitely, when a person has been subjected
to unusual excitement.
Over the cervical ganglions, I am persuaded
that the tongue of the cat was drawn, the effect
being like other tittilations, to produce a condi-
tion of the nervous fluid, somwhat inexplicable
further, than the production of certain phenom-
ena, imperfectly amilyzed. An exaltation of the
nervous tissues,* to their highest supportable
bearing, immediately ensued.
* I ha1·e had my doubts about the scientific propriety of
this word. However, there are hundreds of examples
which might be cited by our best writers, showing that
the more obscure they are, the better they are receiv-
ed by the reader. When that soft poet, Park, takes a
harlequin leap into upper air, periodically, nobody but
himself knows a word of his splendid diction. Jn rhym-
ing, the ne plus ultra of modern Cologne water genius,
CHAPTER II.
A PIIILOSOPIIICAL EXPERil\lENT.
THE e\·ents of the evening led to a learned
discussion upon the cause .of :Mrs. Fox's late
singular feelings. On the following morning,
Dr. B. being in the neighborhood of Chesnut
street, his opinion was asked of the producing
cause of it. He is too wise to commit l1imself,
and therefore asked permission to reflect an hour
or two. In the mean time we accidentally met
at Ticknor's bookstore, where crowds of idlers
the incomprehensibleness of the man is charming in the
poet. Behold the second killing edition of the song of the
Gipsy; it is admirable :-
''Thy slender waist, thy tuneful eye,
Inflames, consumes-my amphrotutomy."
Save us, ye destinies, from an avalanche of Greek
Lexicons.
A PHILOSOPIIICAL EXPERIMENT. 25
1 are permitted to lounge over the rarest produc-
tions in all languages, through the indomitable
good-nature of the proprietor. Calling me aside,
in that non-committal undertone for which he is
distinguished, he gave a succinct history of a
rare case of catal!!psy, scientifically barricaded
with provisos, that if it would be gratifying to
me, &c., although it was not customary to make
exhibitions of his patients, at three in the after-
noon, it would afford him much pleasure to take
me to the residence of l\Ir. Fox.
Punctually at the hour, we met in Chesnut
street. The affair being talked over and over,
l\lrs. Fox seated herself as before, and the old cat
was introduced to the company to repeat her
former operation. Her nose was repeatedly
placed in contact with the l:'urface which was at
first stimulated; but she manifested no sort of
disposition to lick the ganglion. This ill success
called into action the inYentive faculty of .Mr.
Fox, who suggested the idea of hasting his wife's
neck with butter. Nothing could ha\'e been
more apropos; puss instinctively availed herself
of the use of her tongue to gather up the sapid
coating. Tl1e act threw l\lrs. Fox immediately in·
to a delirium of pleasure, followed by a cataleptic
~6 A PHILOSOPIIICAL J:XPERIMENT.
rigidity of the muscles, the will wholly losing its
control over the apparatus of voluntary motion.
Dr. B. d6clared that this was nothing more nor
less than Animal l\lagnetisrn, bccau~e she did not
suffer: her countenance was expressive of per-
fect delight. Full an hour elapsed before efforts
were made to awaken her. Various schemes were
suggested to bring her to herself again, but se-
rious apprehensions then began to take the place
of curiosity, Jest a genuine lethargy had fastened
itself upon the obliging lady. Water sprinkled
over the face, th~ application of hartshorn, rub-
bing the limbs and chafing the temples, seemed
to avail nothing, so profoundly were her senses
locked up by l\lorpheus. Nor was I\Irs. Fox
at all moved by loud and repeated calls, close to
the ear. Never !tad the family felt themselves
more sensibly afflicted; accusing themseh•es of
influencing thei1· mother to become a victim of
an unwarrantable experiment. Both myself and
Dr. B. exl1austed ourseh-es in the exertions made
in connexion with .1\Ir. Fox aud his daughters to
awal,en her. .1\liss l\Iatilda Fox, in the midst or
this dilemma, happened to pass one hand over
her mother's face in the act of untying a cap-
ribbon, when, to the unspeakable delight and rc-
A PHILOSOPlllCAL EXPERDIENT. 27
lief too of us all, she reco1·ered the ability to move
and speak.
Question upon question was eagerly pressed,
each one being anxious to know how she felt,
what her dreams had been, whether sl1e had
been exercioed by pain; and lastly, had she been
conscious ofwhat hnd been pas~ing, &c., infinite-
ly faster than they could be couyeniently answer-
ed. When their anxieties were quieted, they
were assured that the state that she had been
thrown into by the cat-necromancer, was per-
fect enjoyment; it was indescribably pleasur-
able," nor could she 1
·ery well resist the dis-
po"ition to tell what she had ocen in her visions,
if supernatural they were.
To know all, with scarcely patience to wait
till her thoughts were sufficiently collected, Mrs.
Fox related what, before we fathomed the phe-
nomena, almost seemed the visitations of a dis-
tempered braiu.
In the first instance, as in subsequent experi-
* All those ladies who are susceptible of the magnetic
touch refer to the same exquisite train of sensations. .\Iiss
Gleason, whose ardor and philanthropy induced her to
leave a Fall Ri1·er factory to be illustrated upon by the
great Dr. Poyen, uniformly melts before that gentleman's
manipulations, like an iceberg in a tropical sun.
....
28 A PHJ~OSOPHICAL EXPERIMENT•
ments, the sensation ofphysical pleasure radiated
instamaneously from the throat; and the next
feeling was this, viz.-that she was rapidly,
though gently, conveyed through the air; the im-
pelling force never ceased acting, till the mind
became fixed on some one object, as a tree, a
house, or even a territory, when she instantly
felt herself at rest.*
An in11uiry was now fairly instituted, and al-
though it was unconnected with a systematic
plan of investigation, enough had been devel-
oped to show that the vast domain of nature
might be inspected through the instrumentality
of l\Irs. Fox's peculiar organization, provided
that a mode of managing it could be ascertained.
By this declaration the reader will perceive that
* Miss Brackett, the Providence somnaml;mlist, gives a
similar account of her aerial perigrinations. For a young
beginner, her explorations are calculated to produce a
striking revolution in astronomical scienee, by putting to
re~t that mooted point about the globular figure of the
earth, which is glory enough for a female. She has over
and again convinced the President and professors of the
University, that Venus is a parallelopiped, which the
freshmen are obliged to swear to, as an article of faith on
entering college. Sophomores, by a late ordinance, are at
liberty to call on the lady twice a month, for. further in-
formation.
A PHILOSOPIIICAL EXPERDIE:ST. 29
I now began to believe in Animal ~lagnetism,
anrl yet I hardly know why.
On after reflection, we were surprised at the
manner in which l\lrs. Fox hat! been roused from
the paroxysms ; for it was recollected that a trans-
verse motion of Miss l\latilda's hand over her
mother's face had twice brol<en the spell. Two
facts, at all events, were thus established, viz.
that l\Irs. Fox could be made to slumber, even
without her free concurrence; and, secontlly,
that ~he could be allakened from that artificial
sleep by gently carrying the fingers across her
face, on the plane of the orbits.,..
Such' is the nature of man, in stumbling upon
a discovery like this, im·olving something of the
• E1·ery writer on the science of Animal i\Ia~netism,
gives precise rules for making the trans\'en<e pao;ses. Op-
erators all over the country are familiar with the mode of
drawing om the magnetic fluid by transvetOe sweepsof the
hands across the face. I recommend to new beginners to
shake the fingers smartly, as they would to throw water-
drops from the hand, bya sudden jerk, asthey leave the face.
Something of this 'ort is obYiously neceS!'ary, otherwise
the nervous fluid is but partially extracted, which leans
the individual. if young, in a queer state of moral feeling,
not precisely expressed in the books, rather dangerous to
those of a lymphatic temperament. Dr. Bobbins of U.x-
bridge, \\ill throw a blaze oflight on this subject, directly.
3
30 A PlllLOSOPUICAL EXPERIMENT.
mysterious, that he is stimulated to continual
exertions, being unwilling to relinquish a re-
search while the promise of surmounting difli-
culties offers the most trifling encouragement.
'Ye love to !~:now the minutim in this country;
nor is this all: the why, and ~he wherefore, are
problems a New-Englander is unwilling to aban-
don till he knows all that is to be known of any-
thing which iaterests him.
On looking up to the clock, we were warned
of the lateness of the hour-midnight bad crept
on before it was suspected. All further research,
therefore, was necessarily postponed to auother
day. 1 'called the uext morning on 1\I'rs. Fox,
who was in excelleut spirits. Instead of exhi bit-
ing a feverish lassitude, vital depression or fa-
tigue, the last night's labors were reverted to
with unfeigned satisfaction. After my arrival,
the young ladies were importunate to lmow >''hat
their mother saw the last evening, and besought
me to join forces with them in persuadiug her to
tell us all about it. She was kind enough to
comply, but it cannot be expected that 1 shall
detail the particulars of these imperfect or rath-
er incipie;Jt marches of the senses beyottd those
limits impressed upon them by the operation of
the common laws of nature.
A PliiLOSOPJ!ICAL EXPERDIEl'T. 31
A proposition was made to haYe another trial,
to which l\Irs. Fox assented, but tl1e cat r.ould
uo where be found. This was indeed a disap-
pointment, and for which none of us were pre-
pared. Knowing that the cross passes of i\liss
l\Iatilda had positively opened her eyes, I Hs~ured
her that it would lay me under infinite obliga-
tions in being permitted to manipulate her after
the manner laid down in ~I. Deleuze.* No ob-
jections being made, I commenced drawing my
fingers from abore downward, in the direction of
the nerres and blood-vessels of the neck, quite
below the solar plcxas, and finally d01m to the
knees. Sleep almost immediately was produced.
• Mr. Hartshorn, of P rovidence, to whom the whole
world is indebted for a translation of the be;t 1-Ianual on
Animal ;\lagnetism extant, enriched by copious notes of
his own, tog-ether with letters in the appendix from meri·
torious phy,icians of that city, ha~ ;:holt·n what trne cour-
age consists of. Xothing has been admitted into that stu-
pendous work unsuitable to be studied in the :\Io,que of
Omar. T o discriminate truth from fiction, and so poise
the imaginings of ardent anthrvpologists so as not to hat·e
the beam preponderate the wron~ war, ealls forth the
highest grade uf talents. Dr. Caprun's eontribmions to
l\Ir. Ha rt~horn mu>t not be too lightly estimated. He is
a host in his mm person, a kind of1Iegalonyx,-
Cl For fuce:s and physic, his equal there sco.rce is-
His farce3 are physic, his physic a farce is."
32 A PHILOSOPHICAL EXPERDIENT.
Suhsequent experiments convineed me th11t the
old preparatory process of holding tile thumbs
a while before the regular passes are made, is an
useless expenditure of time. In an aged person
perhaps it might facilitate the magnetic state,
but under ordinary circumstances I consider it
quite as well to trust to the amount of fluid which
a bold magnetizer can impart from himself, by
regularly directing the nervous energy a consid-
erable time in one unbrol\en chain. Certainly
this course in my particular practice has always
been decidedly efficacious.
Some individuals are much more susceptible
than others. 'rhose having a pale sl\in, slender
figure, blue eyes, and a quick, vigorous intellect,
should be preferred to those of a heavy mould.
Black eyes, black hair, with plump figures, are
not easily magnetized.* A head of red hair in-
dicates an excellent organization for the free
disphy of magnetic phenomena.
What I ha\·e ventured to call susceptibility, is
simply a condition to be acted upon by stimuli,
~ The power of concentrating the nervous fluid isbegin-
ning to l::e a rare qualification M. Poyen now confines
himself altogether to red-hairerl ladies. The only reason
of his failure before the Municipal authorities of Salem,
was owing to the undetected existence of a few solitary
hairs of another color in the left eyebrow.
A PIIILOSOPHICAI. F.XPERDJENT. 33
which perhaps might be objected to by those Jess
devoted to logical deductions than myself. Stim-
uli, of whatever kind or quality, either imbibed
by cutaneous absorption or received into the
stomach, or infused through the extreme termi-
nations of the dermoid nerves, have the same
specific effect on the individual so receiving
them. The pulse are accelerated, a rapid se-
cretion of the fluids follows, and a sensitiveness
not unlike a mild exhileration is soon observa-
ble.
1\Irs.Fox, as I have just related, by my agency,
again went to sleep. Nerer in the whole course
of my professional life ha1·e I felt that a greater
triumph had been gained. Beyond dispute I
thus made the important disco1·ery, that in my
own indiviuual person I carried an imisible
something which would prostrate the machinery
of the human frame, and set free the couscious
spirit, that would either go or come at my bid-
ding. l\Iental indications, or the willing to com-
pel another to do that which otherwise could or
~ would not have been executed, has not been suc-
cessfully managed in my hands.
At length we commenced askin~ her qu~s­
tions, to which she gaYe speedy and appropriate
answers. I said to her, l\Iadam, do you perceive
3*
34 A PHILOSOPHICAL EXPERIMENT,
any object 1 ''Yes," said she,-"1 see a gold
breast-pin lying under the left hand gate-post,
entering from the street." "A gold pin, a gold
pin," repeated the young ladies, one to the oth-
er. It came to mind that six years ago, an arti-
cle of that kind had been lost, and that several
domestics had been suspected of purloining it.
There being no species of proof against their
assertions of honesty, the loss was quite for-
gotten. With the serving-man of the house, by
permission of Mrs. Fox, we forthwith raised the
post; and lo ! there lay the trinket, uninjnred
by its long imprisonment. The young ladies
now recalled the circumstance from olden time,
and it was remembered by them that the gate
posts were set on the same day the pin disap-
peared. When the workmen had dug the holes,
they were called off to dinner. It was· during
their absence that one of the three, who were
then children, playing about the spot, dropped
. the jewel in. On their return in the afternoon,
the post was fixed in its destined position. If
any one questions this simple, yet truly extraor-
dinary prevision, in passing by Mr. Fox's house,
C~esnut street, the identical post upon which the
gate swings, may be inspected at leisure.
As the high price of fuel in Boston had been an
A PHILOSOPHICAL EXPERIMENT. 35
occasional topic of conrersntion, the quantity
in market' being considered crimiually small, I
asked l\Irs. Fox whether she rliscorered any coal
beds near by? After looking as it were atten-
tir.ely a moment or so, both eyes being perfectly
closed, " Yes," she $piritedly answered. "I
discover a prodigious quantity of coal, spread
out like a long black ribbon, about four yards
below the surface, inclin.ing deeper and deeper
in n southeasterly direction from the apparent
place occupied by myself." What a shame,
nay, how wicked it is in the coal-dealers to
charge the poor such exorbitant prices, when
such an inexhaustible mine is close at hand! Ev-
ery object being perfectly strange to her, she could
not determine where or in what town this splen-
did locality was situated, because no objects
were familiar to her recollection, if they had ev-
er before been seen.by her.
CHAPTER III.
INTERESTING DISCOVERIES,
ANOTHER sitting gave me further opportllni-
ty for pushing my inquiries into those dark re·
gions of terra firma, where no human eye, save
those of this gifted lady, hns been permitted to
survey the wonders concealed in the earth be-
neath our feet.
Her attention having been directed to a casual
examination of the interior ofthe globe, she start-
ed from the chair with expressions of perfect
horror ;-for, not more than seven miles from
the surface, there is one vast furnace, where a
fire, millions of times hotter than it is possiiJlc to
conceive of, is roa.ring lilie legions of wild
beasts, and the molten billows surge over the
mighty sea of lurid fire in awful sublimity.
The sight was too painful. Pray, said I, keep
nearer the top of the ground, and, if you can,
inform me how it looks under the city of Boston.
INTERESTING DISCOVERIES. 37
Perhaps ten minutes were required for con-
templating objects, before any facts were rereal-
ed. I urged Iter to start from some familiar
point, and pursue the track of the streets, thus
maintaining her relationship to well·known edi-
fices, and at the same time enabling me to desig-
nate places which it might be de~irable to re-
member. Accordingly, the starting-place was
in "\Vashington Street, opposite the green stores,
a revolutionary monument. "Here," said 1\Irs.
Fox, "I will enter." \Veil, directly she an·
nounced a depth of about one ],unJred and thirty
feet;-'' Certainly I am full thirty feet further
in the ground than could be reached with the
fireman's liberty-pole, planted by the side of the
big elm-and here is the edge of a great clay-
basin, bearing some fanciful resemblance to an
artificial rPsen·oir."
I noted e1·ery word on the spot, so that my ac-
count may be relied upon. By following the
basin some considerable distance, she ft1und that
the part on which she apparently stood, was the
segment of a great circle. It was filled with a
turbid, milky-colored water, but whether fresh or
salt, could not be determined. The earth abore
dipped down, at irregular di5tances, like rude
columns, resting on the bottom of this subterra-
3S INTERESTING DISCOVERIES.
nean lake. Between these props, of unequal
lengths, breadth and figure, the water flows
freely at all points of the compass.
Pursuing a northerly direction, the basin evi-
dently deepened, and a sort of boiling motion
was perceptible, as though the water was agita-
ted by some central force. In a word, the an-
cient city of Boston stands on the top of an infin-
itude of clay pillars, the water playing between
them as it does between the piers of a bridge,
On inqniry, I am informed, by gentlemen of
respectabilty, particularly the water-drinkers,*
that the project of supplying the metropolis of
the North with fresh water from the country,
has not met with such hearty encouragement
* "\Vater-commissioners are appointed, by an express
provision of the United States, once in fifty years, at an
annual salary of three tholF,and dollars each, including
hack-hire, tolls and pro\'ender wheneyer they go to Stone-
ham. Their principal duty is to inspect the frog ponds,
and keep them clear from vermin. Last season they
caught lots of tl!dpoles; a service that was promptly
acknowledged by the Texian government. A daily
record is kept at the water office, open to the inspec-
tion of strangers. The clerks are fine fellou·s, ne1·er
being from business more than tu·o weeks at once. No
documents are hailed with sueh demonstrations of pleas-
ure as estimates of the cost ofintroducing fresh water into
cities.
INTERESTING DISCOVERIES, 3!)
from the citizens as it othenrise would, were it
not susceptible of demonstration. that artesean
"·ells would be adequate to any demands made
upon them. Whererer an auger has been th~ust
to the depth of one, or perhaps, at farthest, two
hundred feet, by indi1·idual enterprise, the water
has rushed to the surface with surprising force.
A well, near the rope-walks, sunk by Captain
Lewis, another iu Fayelte Street, the labor of
l\Ir. l\Iar~h, and another at Alger's foundry,
South Boston, must conrince any persou, open
to comic.tion, that there is a nerer-failing foun-
tain in the earth below. "'hererer the Loring
hus been tried north and northeast ufthe marl\et,
the dip of the superincumbent earth requires the
instrument to be sunk consigerably deeper than
at the southern sections of the city.
Though exceedingly unwilling, by importuni-
ty, l\Irs. Fox was induced to look minutely into
the boundaries cf this ba~in, being then, as I am
at the instant of recording these fact~, satisfied
that the public hare a right to profit by this dis-
covery.
East Duston, the ?\ary Yard at Charle~town,
the depot of the Lowell Rail-road, the whole of
'Vest Boston, Charles River, round to the west-
ern avenue, are embraced ,,·ith the natural
40 INTERESTING DISCOVERIES.
boundaries of the hasiu. The deepest place is
neady under the Oriental B.tnk, at the c<~rner
of State Street and l\Ierchants' Row. l\lrs. Fo::v
sn~pects that the mill1y color was owing to a
solution of clay, the forest of supporters being
contiuttally watihed by the circtilatin;; water.
Those abortive attempts to obtain it by boring
in several wards, were owing to the misfortune
of striking the auger into one of the gigantic pil·
lars instead of penetrating the interstice between
two of them. This is a difficulty always to be
apprehended; and yet, with our imperfect knowl-
edge of geology, there is no .mode of certainly
avoiding the difficulty.
According to her notions oflabor·£aving, l\lrs.
Fox comiders the most farorable ground in the
whole city for sinking an artesean well, on ac-
count of the prodigious width of the inter-col-
umner spaces, to be in Chauncy place, at its in-
tersection with Summer Street. That this is a
hollow place is very certain.*
* Mr. T-- being aware ofrhe cavernous character
of Chauncy Place, limited the school to a definite number
of boys, years ago, fearm~: to exceed it, lest any accumu-
lation of pondero,;ity should sink the whole establishment.
Owmg to a similar feeling on the part of the proprietors
of the church near by, marriage publishments are read on
INTERESTING DISCOVERIES. 41
At the western extremity of Louisburg square,
partly under the street, .Mrs. Fox discovered a
brick vault of sufficient capacity to take in a
common-sized hogshead. Within this concealed
enclosure, are seven earthen pots, covered over
at the top with sheet lead ; interspersed among
them, are some dozens of bottles, the hilt of a
sword in the north corner, and the decayed
frame-work of a trunk. She could not deter-
mine the contents of the stone vessels. She con
jcctured, however, that they were originally filled
with pickles. A similar underground structure
was found, in 182G, in Charnber street, at a depth
of more than thirty feet below the natural level
of the land. Thousands of people thronged the
neighborhood to take a peep at it, while excava-
tions were making for a block of buildings, to
face on Leverett street. Although currently re-
ported to contain nothing but a few slaughter-
house bones, it was generally believed tl1at valu-
able property had been taken out before publici-
ty was given to the fact that a strong specimen
of masonry had been found at that section of the
town.
Thursdays, and never on the Sabbath. Crowded as~em·
blies in Chauncey Place might be attended with danger-
ous con~equences.
4
4~ lNTERE!iTINO DISCOVERIES.
I besought her to look further, not doubting
tlHlt in a city of the rnngnitnde of Boston, dis·
tiugui:;hed for its wealth, that much treasure of
one ldnd and another, iu the revolution, l~:;t by
accident and design, was concealed on the old
estates.
Not f.'lr from eleven feet deep, just under the
west corner of the Stone Chapel, Mrs. Fox saw a
singular collection of coins, the remains of an
under jaw, and, in contact with both, a tin canis-
ter of buttons.* Twel\'e feet from those articles,
exactly in a line with the southern face, is a
skeleton in a sitting position, having a copper
hoop encircling the skull, one inc.h and a quar-
ter in width. On both arms, above the elbows,
are two green rings. At the feet is the head of
a deer, with prodigiously wide branching ant-
lers. My curiosity has been so excited by this
declaration, that au early application is premedi-
tated to the proper authorities, for permission to
mal•e an opening under that ancient edifice.
" Probably the reminiscences of a tailor. Mr. Milton
having dealt largely in copper advertisements imitating
cents, in his last will and testament, it is hoped, will direct
that all the shop coinage on hand at the final consumma-
tion ofbusiness at Faneuil Hall, shall be disposed ofin the
same manner.
INTERESTING DISCOVERIES. 43
In North Square, several strange specimens
of mechanical ~kill, the use or de,igu of which
could not be devised, are buried at irregular
depths. 'Vhen the foundation of the mariner's
church was laid, had the dig-gers dipped two
feet further, singular reliquire ofsavage life would
have been brought to light.
Anxious for her penetrating eye to search the
town generally, perhaps at this sitting, the ob-
senations were made too much at random : my
excuse is, that it was <1 part of my de,-ign to first
reconnoitre the town, and at a leisure day take
the streets by ward:.>. The first developm ents,
therefore, only, are here noted.J
On the sides of Fox Hill, the site of a fort in
ruins, west of Crescent Pond, hundreds of per-
plexing sights were presented, averaging three
and a half feet deep. l\lore than seventy skele-
tons of infants, secured in coffee-pots, cigar
boxes, oil jars, wine measures, &c. are concealed
there. Among this mournful collection of dry
bones, l\Jrs. Fox: recognized two beautiful work-
baskets, both containing horrible mementos of
crime. On the marshy extremity of the Com-
mon, she had a distinct riew of a human skele-
ton which had an iron spike driven in at one ear.
She was greatly shocked at the sight, and bogged
44 INTERESTING DISCOVERIES.
that I would not urge her to remain in that
dreadful golgotha. 1\Iy sympathies were power-
fully in harmony with her own, and I very wil-
lingly proposed another district. Smce then,
no walk over that part of the Common has been
pleasant; even a distant sight of Fox Hill recalls
painful emotions. On Fort Hill, not a single
object worth speaking of could be found. At
two places in :Milk Street, about eighty old
French crowns lie scattered over a space of some
three square feet. Between the Old South and
--, spoons, three silver tankards, &c., a cop-
per tea-kettle full of small change, like contribu-
tion money, are snugly hidden under a fragment
of a grave-stone. The latter is presumed to
have been taken from the Granary Yard, the
lower half standing there having a fracture to
correspond with the secreted portion. All these
things are conjectured to have been deposited
when the British troops held possession of the
town, by some one who no doubt intended to
take them up when property would be secured
by law to the rightful owner.
Nine feet from the Old South side walk, con-
siderribly deep, lies another grave-stone, bearing,
on its front, the sculptured face of a cherub,with
a pair of wings res'embling hand-bellows, grow-
INTERESTING DISCOVERil.S. 45
ing out an inch behind the ears. W. J. in plain
chiselling, are cut on the opposite or back side.
I shall rejoice to hear the pew holders consent
to ha,·e an exploration about their premises.
Close by the Doubt estate, North End, bor-
dering upon Tileston Street, lies something worth
possessing. The same may be said of the con-
tents of a well, hard by Copp's Hill ; but I for-
bear to indicate definitely on account of the dep·
redations that would infallibly be made by un-
principled adventurers. Hut of all spots sur-
veyed by l\Irs. Fox, the inner harbor is inca]- ·
culably the richest, surpassing the creations of
fancy in many respects. Opposite the whan·es,
on the hither side of the channel, nothiug but
bits of rope, fragments of iron hoops, or the occa-
sional fluke of a rusty anchor came to l'iew.
On the flats, however, quite a different scene
presented. Anchors of all patterns and sizes,
iron keels, parts of chain-cables, copper bolts,
rings, tackles, guns of all sorts, with and without
stocks, fishing tackle; thousands oflead weights
tied with short pieces of codline; bottles, watch-
es, seals and chains, finger-rings, spy-glasses,
drinking vessels, knives, buttons, spoons, be~ides
innumerable articles not now recollected, ha\'e
been strei'Vo o\·er some forty acres with a profuse
4il<
4(j INTERES1'!NG DISCOVERIES.
hand. These, in fact, are the gatherings of two
hundred years, mostly by accident. West of
Bird Island, Mrs. Fox saw three human skele-
tons, loaded with a number of fifty-sixes, fastened
on by wire. Surely, this is an indication ofsome
foul deed. She often assured me that only a
stone's throw from the wharves, taking a circuit
ofthe town, the waves roll over the disappearing
osseous remains of many loved ones, whose dis-
appearance was never satisfactorily explained.
Other bones, of horses, dogs, cats, and coins of
various denominations, wedged in the mud, and
still working towards the clay bottom, beneath
the vegetable accumulations and filth, seemingly
might be recovered by the simplest mechanical
contrivances imaginable.
CHAPTER IV.
SO~IETHING SURPRISING.
PERHAPS I am becoming tedious: surely it is
not my wish to offend against good manners,
and yet l feel that the public has a direct claim
upon me to tell all I know in the department of
knowledge to which of late I have been passion-
ately devoted. As my acquaintance with 1\Irs.
Fox soon ripened into a friendship, which I trust
is mutually acknowledged by the family-cer-
tainly so on my part, confidence became strength-
ened, and she exerted herself to gratify my un-
conquerable love of disco>ery to the extent of
her clairvoyant faculty. To 1\Irs. Fox, I here
make an unqualified declaration, am I indebted
for all the advances I have made from the limit-
ed knowledge of the schools, in those sublime
contemplations of the grandeur and extent of
that ceaseless Power which operates through all
48 SO~IETIIJNG SURPRISING.
space, controlling the minutest portion of organ-
ized matter, as it does the couHtless stars in the
firmament, in beauty and order. Had it not
have been for the untiring condescension ofMrs.
Fox, the learned would still have been enveloped
in darkness on thousands of questions, now made
clear and comprehensible.
r
At too great a depth to warrant mining opera-
tions, unfortunately, under the town of Sj>ring-
field, Vt. is a monstrous deposit of copper ore.
Also at Bellows' Falls and at Brnttlcburough,
copper of pretty good quality may be considered
plenty'. Nothing worth describing could be de-
tected in the substrata of ·windsor or Hartland,
taking the course of the riv;;.. A beautif1..l in-
terval bottom on the Connecticut, called 'Veth-
ersfield Bow, is quite rich in mineral deposits.
Ther;-;ill always be difficulty to contend with
in subterranean explorations at the Bow, on ac-
(
count of tlie perpendicular depth of the miner-
als, below the bottom of the river. A good deal
of copperas might be advantageously manufac-
• tured at Cornish,. N. H. Hanover is perfectly
sterile, with the exception of garnets. 1\frs. Fox
saw splendid specimens; some larger titan ounce
bullets. She says it would well pay the way for
Boston jewellers to be at considerable expense
SO~IETHING SURPRISING. 4()
to procure them. Generally, they are imbedded
in a grayish kind of rock. Of all the towns in
New-Hampshire, Hopkinton, Goffstown, Con-
way and Centre-Harbor, have k~n the decided
favorites of nature. Accident will at some future
day show the people there what there is under-
neath their green fields. Specks of gold were
repeatedly noticed, even above ground, at the
base of the ·white Mountai11s. Blastings on tl1e
south border would astonish a professed geolo-
gist. An abundance of lead might be thro\rn
up in a hundred places.
Vermont abounds with lead, iron, copper and
rich marble. Rutland, Vergennes, 'Voodstock,
and Manchester, are amply provided for, even
for centuries, in many respects. Another gen-
eration will look into matters.
Mrs. Fox, after repeated trials, declared that
there were no minerals in Rhode Island. In
this sweeping assertion, however, she made no
reference to coal; the real and only bank to be
depended upon in the State. The little State has
scarcely anything else but coal; the whole east
side of Providence river is one solid bed of slaty
bituminous coal, quite down to Newport. A
shaft of two hundred feet would show a quality
that would vie with the best Liverpool. " Ilow
50 SOMETHING SURPRISING.
black it is," she often repeated, in tracing the
veins. \Varren, is altogether superior to Bris-
tol for coaling. 'l'wo miles or so above Provi-
dence, and even at Pawtucket, the coal lies deep,
but there is an immensity of it. .!\Irs. Fox once
said to me that it was very strange some one had
not detected coal at Pawtucket in sinking two
wells, the lowest in the town, as they actually
struck a vein. Smithfield has coal too, but it is
considerably intermixed with pebbles in an un-
usual manner, giving it something of the appear-
ance of Roxbury conglomerate or pudding-stone.
lly my express desire, a bed of coal was fol-
lowed from the town of 'V;trren, R. I. north and
northeasterly, with a hope that some poiut would
be found where it cropped out of the ground.
I was encouraged in this, because 1\Irs. Fox in-
variably spoke of the veins being like intermina-
ble undulating black ribbons. The uppermost
one she assured 'me dipped amazingly deep, till
it neared the level lands at the base of the 1\lil-
ton Hills or lllue Ridges, where it came nearer
the surface. To the east of Quincy, in .l\Iassa-
chu!Setts, and particularly under a certain farm,
which from a series of observations has been
identified to be the estate of the Hon. John Q.
Adams, there are three thick veins, one above
SO!tiETlliNG SURPRISIN<.:. 51
the other, separated some fifteen feet, more or
le~s, by earthy matter. Ali three finally dip
down suddenly unuer Quincy bay, :;eaward, un-
der and beyond President Quincy's Salt Works.
Ou .the north and northeast side of the Milton
Hills, 1\Irs. Fox considers this coal to be a com-
pact anthracite ; and she also remarked to me,
at the same time, that in ten years more, the
arrival of a cargo of hard coal from Pennsyl-
vania, would be as ridiculous, as the proverb has
it, as carrying coals to New-Ca~tle. Quincy is
destined to great importance in the coal-trade
hereafter.
Connecticut has coal too, distributed particu-
larly or. the margin of Long Island Sound, and
on uoth sides of the mouth of the Connecticut
river, at Lyme and Saybrook. Unfortunately,
the greatest proportion of it, lies quite in the
Sound, where it is impossible to raise it. "'eth-
ersfield abounds with coal in broad sheets, but
little beneath the onion beds, which could be
mined to good profit.
At this stage of the survey, 1\lrs. Fox was re-
quested to peep under the city of Hartford, be-
ing convinced in my own mind that if coal veins
were in Wethersfield, Hartford was not wholly
destitute. To my vexation, however, she said
52 SOI\IETHING SURPRISING.
not a particle was to be found there. In the
search, she perceived a strange collection of
great bones, about a quarter ofa mile, she judged,
from the steamboat landing, nearly under a cer-
tain wooden house, rather old, to which was at-
tached a small garden. The front door is shaded
by evergreen. In the collection is one large
sh:eleton, "long as a clmrclt!" having three legs
on each side. On the neck is a monstrous stone,
pressing the vertebne into the hard clay. As
the upper part of the skull is broken in, it seems
as though the monster had been suddenly killecl
by the stone, hurled with resistless force from an
unknown source. Twenty or thirty teeth arc
within a foot or two, variously fractured, as if
violently wrenched from their deep sockets. On-
ly a few rods from the bank of the river, in Glas-
tenbury, there lies another ferocious looking
nondescript monster, stretched out at full length,
so very near the water, that one or two more
spring floods will certainly expose the bones of
the tail.
If there is not enterprise enough in the good
city of Hartford to redeem these valuable fossil
remains, it will be a reproach to their intelli-
gence. Once obtained, their naturalists would
possess the rarest, richest monuments of the
world before the flood.
SO)!ETHI:-IG SUitPitiSJ:-;G. 53
A cursory examination only, was had of the
State of Kew York. Such a multitude of mag-
nificent objects presented themselves, as it were,
that she was quite confounded, indeed, over-
whelmed by the exhibition. The most common
sight where there were plains bordering upon
streams, were the same kind of great bones
which are buried at Glastenbury. She saw,
too, columns of water rising from unfathomable
depths, boiling and sparkling towards the sur-
face, through inclined canals, which were small
in some parts, and bulging into wide tubes in
others. 'Vithin se\"enty feet of the surface,
many of them coalesce; the main stream pur-
suing a horizontal direction to an unknown
destination. In four different counties, great
white stones, or as they might be called quartz
mountains, are conspicuous objects to a person
capable of visiting distant regions by the aid of
Animal Magnetism. I take these to be pure
rock salt, all the water used in the manufacture
of the article in the interior of the State, merely
holding in solution a small quantity of salt,
which it obtains in passing over the crystallized
masses.
Amongst other topics, we happened to be dis-
coursing, on a certain occasion, about the primi-
5
54 SOMETJIING SURPRISING.
tive inhabitants of America; and I suggested to
l\lrs. Fox that sufficient memorials were hidden
in the earth, could they be brought up, to estal.J-
lish the truth of Indian traditions. The conver-
sation greatly interested her; and being free to
lend her assistance to discover l10w far my theory .
could be sustained by facts, a time was assigned
for an experiment. Knowing that the valley of
the l\lississippi would, in all probability, yield the
best antiquarian han·est, if one was to be realiz-
ed at all, l\Irs. Fox's clairvoyance wa.:; put in
requisition for a grand inspection of celebrated
sites in Ohio, Missouri, l\lichigau, Illiuois, Ar-
kansas, and Wisconsin Territory.
'
CHAPTER V.
RESEARCHES IN TilE JIIOUNDS.
TnosE who would enlarge their sphere of
knowledge, need not travel beyond the bounda-
ries of our own happy country, to be convi need
that America has been the theatre on which man
has figured through all the p)1ases of human na-
ture, from the wildest condition of savage life, to
the du.y in which we live, and that the revolu-
tions he has passed through, from an era to
which no written memorial refers, and no tracli-
tion reaches, is demonstrated by a countless
number of magnificent remains, the labors of
his hands, whose design cannot be ascertained,
and which still promise to Iesist the physical
changes of the globe, nnessentially impaired for
unnumbered generations to come.
If any light could be thrown upon the internal
structure of the mounds, the great unspealdng
56 RESEARCHES IN THE MOUNDS.
wonders of the western division of the United
States, I felt it an imperious duty to collect it.
lly the same indulgent kindness, which has
characterized l\lrs. Fox through a succession of
fatiguing researches into things which she knew
nothing of before they were offered for her elu-
cidation, the important contributions to the
stock of antiquarian lore already collected, has
been procured. I have long reflected upon the
intention of the builders of the mounds, but I
do not feel that the object is yet discovered.
However, I am fully prepared to display their
contents, but regret that the learned will prob-
ably be obliged to theorize, as they always have,
without sufficient data on the exact use which
was originally made ofthem.
In the first place, there is not a tumulus,
either large or small, in which the nucleus is
not a human skeleton. Within an earth-walled
enclosure, on the north fork of Paint Creek,
near Chilicothe, are six miniature tumuli, sur-
rounded by a double circular wall. l\frs. Fox
saw in the centres of the three largest, a skele-
ton in each, lying upon its right sides, with
their heads to the west. They were wrapped
in a firm twilled twine cloth, and a stone image,
resembling, faintly, the body ofa man, severed at
RESEARCHES IN TilE MOUNDS. 57
the lower part of the abdomen, was grasped by
the right hand. A circular silver plate, origin-
ally, perhaps, a medallion, bearing the embossed
representation of the sun, is figured on the three.
Two slwlls, deprived of their eye teeth, are lash-
ed to their feet. These, I am inclined to sup-
pose, were sacred individuals, perhaps priests.
·within the three smaller mounds, are the bones
of children, in such a state of preservation, that
l\Irs. Fox suspects that they were embalmed.
Each one is laid in the El;i'n of a great bird, the
feathers still adhering. A little bag is suspend-
ed to their necks, containing red paint, and two
square pieces of metal, perforated in the middle.
They are in a compact row, and seemed to ha\·e
been bound together by a serpent, whose head
and tail are tied together in a knot. These, too,
we~e probably the offspring of the priesthood,
or else sacrificed on some momentous occasion.
Two mounds, standing ontside the ancient
fort at Circleville, Ohio, are full of relics. Bones
of men, but twenty heads to one frame, are buri-
ed in a pit, ten feet deep, over which the
mounds were raised. Sea-shells, particularly
conchs, sheets of mica-slate and small red east-
ern pots, are variously interspersed throughout
the structure. l\Iore than a cord of wood is bu-
5*
58 RESEARCHES IN THE MOUNDS.
ried at the bottom, as if a vat of logs was first
built to receive the remains.
At Marietta, ten thousand curiosities are bu-
ried hither and thither, even down as low as
ninety feet. Iron axes, iron shoes, copper hel-
mets, swords, spears, sculptured resemblances
of serpents, lizards, and other reptiles, are abun-
dant. On the southern bank of the 1\Iusking-
um river, astonishing revelations are to be made.
Mrs. Fox said it was impossible to describe one
hundredth part of what she saw. It occurs to
me to mention that magazines ofcorn are plenty
in the vicinity of Marietta. She thinks that in
two of those under-ground stores, as much as
two hundred bushels of corn, in the ear, is so
sound and dry, that it would make sweet meal.
By analyzing the ground within a line. of forts
at the junction of the 1\1uskingum and the Ohio,
four flat stones may be dug up, bearing inscrip-
tions. She was shown a copy of the characters
on the famous Dighton rock, and asked to com-
pare them; but there was no tangibleresemblance.
Each letter, if letters they are, on the l\Iarietta
tablets, is crowned by the picture ofa man's face;
and, projecting from the mouth, is the shape of
an arrow. One stone has nine lines upon it,
another one, embraced at the extremities by the
nESEAnCIIES IN THE JI!OUNDS. 5!)
talons of a hawk ; the others are precisely
alike,-being, apparently, duplicates, written
from top to bottom. In a field, twenty rods, or
thereabouts, west of the largest fort, is an earth-
en vessel, of the capacity of fifteen or sixteen
hogsheads, completely filled with flutes. Some
of them are made of heron's legs, and some of
cane-stalks. One of the instruments is a fac-
simile of a trombone, excepting it is without
.keys, and made of brass.*
Newark, in Licking county, Ohio, was ran-
-sacked quite thoroughly; but, notwithstanding
·the glowing descriptions of Caleb Atwater, Esq.,
it is r~ther a poverty-stricken depot. The artifi-
cial ponrl, marked F., in his map of the ruins be-
tween Racoon Creek and the South Fork of
Licking river, is the only place worth exploring.
A considerable quantity oflong bars of lead lie
in the pond,-and in the part marked C, is a
magazine of grain, similar to those described at
* When these surprising revelatiolls reach llfarietta,
I cannot believe they will go unheeded. The Antiquari-
an Society ought to send an agent 10 that fertile spot, to
&ecure the harvest of relics. The trumpery constituting
the Museum, is getting old, hence a spirited movement is
necessary, particularly as the manufacture ofAmerican
antiquities, by the Connecticut pedlars, was suspended,
during the late pressure.
GO RESEARCHES IN THE liiOUNDS.
Chilicothe. It is all shelled, and appears to have
been parched.
l\lany ambitious antiquarians have lived and
died, who would have made large sacrifices to
have been gratified with a knoll'ledge of the con-
tents of a very great mound, designated the Big
Grare, not far from Wheeling. l\Ir. 'l'omlinson,
the owner, and others equally interested in it, as
property, never would permit any excavations in
it. Its circumference is three hundred yards-
the diameter, consequently, three hundred feet ;
and its height, just ninety. I am proud to un-
fold the mystery, since l\Irs. Fox has placed it
within my power to gratify the world.*
In the first place, the foundation of that im-
mensely large mound is laid on four hundred
* A general complaint has been made against mound-
owners, by tranllers, that no facilities are offered them
for prosecuting researches in the '\\'estern country. This
will explain the reasons why every volume issued under
the authority of the American Antiquarian Society, is
made up of nursery tales. It is not customary, in that
musty body, to recei1·e a communication for their archives,
not bearing the impress of one thou,and years. At any
rate, to create a stir, it must be perfectly illegible. Consis-
tency is the order of the dar, with the fellows, for a new
member must be in his dotnge before election. Young
men are unknown to the 'Vorcester Antiquarian Pre-
torians.
RESEARCHES IN THE MOUNDS. 61
four-footed animals, placed in a manner to de-
scribe an octagon,-the heads being turned
outward. They are either elephants or mam-
moths,-but I have no means of knowing which.
On the neck of each is the skeleton of a man, al-
together taller than any variety of the human
species at present known to naturalists. Brace-
lets are on their 'arms above the elbows, and on
the ankles. They appear to have been crushed
down by a mass of earth suddenly dropped from
above ; yet such could not have been the fact.
Over these, constituting a flooring, is a structure
of sand, two feet and four inches thick, and over
that, bushels ofteeth, of all kinds, from those of
men, to those of fishes. Where so many could
have been procured, is truly surprising. 01•er
these, again, are millions, apparently, of earthen
vessels, of all manner of patterns, bearing a gro-
tesque variety of raised figures. Some of these
articles are in the form of men, in all possible at-
titudes; some are like monkies, hawks, ground-
hogs, foxes, racoons, rabbits, crows and serpents.
They surround a central ring, bounded by a curb-
stone, enclosing a shallow well, holding a black
'mass, seemingly consolidated into stone. Conjec-
ture has made this to be blood, poured into the well
-taken, perhaps, from the dead bodies under-
62 RESEARCHES IN THE 1\lOUNDS.
neath. The well is covered by an earthen cov-
er, nine feet in diameter, bearing the twelve
signs of the zodiac on the upper surface. Quite
in the centre of that, a staple passes through,
keyed in the under side by a copper nail. Over
all these things, are concentric circles of human
bodies, systematically sized. Small infants, ly-
ing face down, have all their feet in contact o1·er
the well. Beyond them is another size, and then
another, and so on, till the exterior circle is made
of gigantic bones, bespeaking them, when alive,
to have been1 certainly, eight feet tall. Again,
over these, is another coat of earth and rich
mould, five feet thick. Into this is stuck thou-
sands upon thousands of arrows, the stone-points
up, which gave the mound, at that stage of its
buillling, the appearance of a forest of weapons.
Every other one, 1rithin one inch of the lanceo-
lated beau, is ornamented with a red corll.
Over these is twenty-seven feet of earth, Leing a
promiscuous mixture of clay, sand, and gravel.
All the remainder, quite to the summit, pre-
senting an area of forty feet in diameter, is made
, up of earth. Quite in the centre of this elevated
taule, there is now a depression, caused by the
decay of the bodies at the base.
People of Louisville, Kentucky, would marvel
•
RESEARCHES IN TilE MOUXDS. 63
if they knew what lay under their feet. How-
ever, by the inspection of a mound familiar to
them all, a sufficient number of objects would be
reCOI'ered tO compensate for every •OUtlay Of
money in carrying on the labor. In that, there
is a row of capacious earthen vessels, somewhat
like tea-kettles, having spouts to resemble ser-
pents. These constitute, as it \>ere, an inclosure,
within the embrace of which, is an infinitude of
balls, perhaps four inches in diameter, made to
look much like common cannon-balls. 01·er
them is a stratum of white sand, and above the
sand, in the very centre, is a triangular brass
tablet, two inches thick, bearing singular char-
acters on both sides. It is so large that the
angles are the boundaries of a circle twelve feet
across. It will be seen, therefore, that the brass
alone would be a prize worth digging for. At
each angle of the triangle, is a human head,
probably decapitated for the pnrpose, facing in-
wardly. A ,·ery fine composition of clay, sand,
and vegetable fibres overlays this precious relic
to the depth of one foot only. A circle was
then made of human bodies, on their haunches,
all facing the centre-tifty-se1·en in all, who
give striking evidence of having been slain, as
all their skulls are fractured at the occiput, as
64 RESEARCHES IN THE lllOUNDS.
though struck with a heavy bludgeon. In the
right hand of each is a delicate red cup, and,
perched upon the thumb of the left hand, the
figure of a,little bird, wrought of clay.
Precisely under the 1\Iedical College, in the
city of Cincinnati, which appears to have been
a site fixed upon for rearing a great mound,
from the preparations made in the earth, but
which, for causes forever unknown, was aban-
doned after considerable progress had been made
by those engaged in it, are many unique articles,
not at all easy to describe. A well was first dug
thirty-seven feet, and the bottom covered with a
sculptured tortoise, the shell just fitting the sides.
On its back is the representation of a warrior,
dressed in armor, holding a spear in the right
hand, and a lion by the nape of the neck, with
the left.
A variety of things in character with the con-
tents of the well, are lying at various depths, all
over the city of Cincinnati, and especially with-
in six and eight hundred feet of the water.
I urged 1\Irs. Fox to consider some section of
Illinois, with reference to antiquarian relics.
She obligingly made a slight excursion there,
but expressed herself fatigued. On the bank of
a river she saw the frame of a steamboat, with
RESEARCHES IN THE MOU:-IDS. G5
Evansville on the stern. I then inquired what
there was in the neighborhood 1 to which she
quickly replied," Xothing but bones." Under
a large store, .\Irs. Fox assured me . that there
were ten skeletons, in a sitting posture, aud all
of them had heavy lead caps on, shaped like a
common tin wash-bowl.
Here my research into and among the mounJs
was interrupted on accouut of the soreness of
Mrs. Fox's eyes, brought on by long and contin-
ued exertion. Although closed by the lids, the
visual apparatus was necessarily intensely exer-
cised in every telescopic observation. :Not wish-
ing to become too importunate, and thus lose my
only chance of penetrating the secrets of the soil,
I told her if she would favor me with a few
glances nearer home, which would be attended
with less expenditure of ocular strength, I would
not urge her to prolong the exploration any long·
er, but wait till she felt herself sufficiently re-
cruited and renovated to renew our inquiries.
A look was now taken of the harbor of New
Yorh:, between the battery and Jersey city. In-
stantly, about ten rods from the battery, the first
object she saw was a huge iron-bound box,
nearly covered by mud, filled with American
half dollars. Nothin~, apparently, would be less
6
(l(l RESEARCHES IN TUE MOUNDS.
difficult than to drag it up by a common rake.
On East River, she said there were dollars
enough imbedded in the mud, close by the ends
of the wharves, to load a hand-cart. The rem-
nants, too, of human beings, were promiscuously
strewn over acres of bottom. The bones, too, of
children, were in horrible profusion in every di-
rection. Surely, the police is in duty bound to
inquire into this dreadful appearance.
CHAPTER VI.
PATHOLOGICAL INQUIRIES.
EvERY physician, ofliberal views, has been con-
vinced of the utility of the practice of Animal
1\Iagnetism in allaying agonizing pain, and in
shortening, if not permanently overcoming dan-
gerous maladies. When the mode of producing
somnambulism was first taught, every medical
philanthropist hailed the discovery with benevo-
lent satisfaction, because it was foreseen that
the exercise of clairvoyancy would wholly super-
sede the stethescope, an awkward instrument at
best, which, in the hands of experienced auscul-
turists, about as frequently misleads as it gires
a true indication.
At tht: season the series of experiments were
in progress, of which this little memoir is the
record, several of my intimate personal friends
were extremely ill ; two of them were considered
68 PATHOLOGICAL INQUIRIES.
to be in the last stages of pulmonary consump-
tion. The field to which 1\Irs. Fox was invited,
was indeed new to her, but an ample sphere for
the exercise of her predominant kindness of
heart, lay within it, and she, as I had anticipated,
cordially assisted me in many pathological re-
searches, to the perfect restoration of several,
and, confessedly, to the reliefof others, who oth-
erwise might not at this hour have been alive.
Residing at Roxbury, is a young lady of the
first respectability, who had been afflicted with
a swelling of the right foot. The sense of feel-
ing was quite lost in it, so that pinching could
11ot be felt, nor could she distinguish the appli-
cation of hot from cold water. The case had
been minutely stated to me by two medical at-
tendants, who would have thanked me for any
suggestions calculated to benefit their patient.
One afternoon, I said to Mrs. F.,-In a charm-
ing house on l\lount Pleasant, there sits a young
lady, with one foot supported on an ottoman, or,
rather, it is presumable that she is thus seated at
this hour of the day. Pray look at her, and tell
me whether she is indisposed or in good health.
.Mrs.Fox has been magnetized, it must be recol-
lected, a preparatory ~tep, invariably, before be-
ginning to propound qu_estions.
PATHOLOGICAL l:"QUinTES. GO
She apparently gave herself up to profound
thoughtfulness-so long continued that I took oc-
casion to repeat what I had before said. "Sir,''
said she, "I am now looking at the poor young
lady's foot; how badly it. is swollen. 'Yhy don't
the surgeon draw out the needle \vhich passes
directly through the great nerve that turns round
the ankle joint to reach the sole 1" Not suc-
ceeding in confining her attention to the foot
any longer, because it gave her unpleasant emo-
tions, I wrote a note the day following to Drs.
---, praying them to search for a needle
somewhere uenr the inner maleolnr process.
They did so, detected it, and immediately ex-
tracted it. From that hour she began to recov-
er, and in six weeks was restored to her accus-
tomed health.
Another case was submitted to her inspection.
The circumstances were essentially these. A
gentleman who has always lived freely, though
temperately, till he become an alderman, lost
his appetite, could not sleep, but seemed nerer
to be satisfied with drinking an Italian liqueur,
called marisclzino. lie fed on the lightest fari-
naceous food, in small quantities too, and his ab-
dominal rotundity was the amazement ofall who
passed him in his usual morning wall.:s. I had
6*
70 PATHOLOGICAL INQUIRIES.
not the least acquaintance with this man, what-
ever, but his monstrous back struck me always
with astonishment. l\lrs. Fox was requested to
examine the vital organs-which she did, alter-
nately, and told me that in his stomach was a
li\'ing cuttle-fish, over a foot in length. Never
did the communication of any intelligence ap-
pear more ridiculous. The idea of a squid, oth-
erwise cuttle-fish, being imprisoned, and alive
too, in a stomach, exceeded belief. I dared not
mention this to any one, for fear of becoming
the jest of all rational people in the town. The
latter part of October, the great monster man
died. A post mortem was had, and there lay
the squid brisk as ever. How the creature found
admittance, is a problem. The most reasonable
thing upon the matter is this, viz. that the egg
was swallowed and subsequently developed in
the stomach,*
Miss 1\T. T., a maiden lady, of thirty, spare
J.Jabit, tall, with blue eyes and red hair, had been
* Miss Brackett deteded a diseased spleen in a man,
very much in the same manner. The Rev. Mr. Green
has a plenty of illustrations of the faculty possessed by
somnambulists, of finding out the state ofthe ,·iscera. A
visit to Pawtuxet.would be a treat to the well-wishers of
magnetism in this country.
I'ATTIOLOGICAL INQUIRIES. 71
ailing from her eighteenth year, without having
had any permanent relief, although she had con-
sulted all the medical men of eminence in Bos-
ton. She has suffered from a fixed pain in the
left side of the chest, the whole time. Blisters,
setons, tartar-emetic ointments, besides a whole
shop of drugs, had been prescribed, without pro-
ducing any sort of relief. l\lrs. Fox, with a lit-
tle hesitation, pronounced the disease to be a
conversion of the left lung into solid stone! and
moreo1·er predicted that a judicious administra-
tion of Brandreth's pills would restore the lost
function of the organ. This information was
communicated to her friends, who went to work
in earnest to apply the remedy. Se1·enteen box-
es ofthose invaluable pills cured her.* I learn,
*By turning to the daily papers, of~o1·. 20th, 183i, Dr.
Brandreth's ad1•ertisement of his arrival in Boston may
be seen. It was to give the l'egetable pills, that the fami-
lyof the lady sent for him. This was the special occasion
of this very distinguished benefactor's visit to the literary
emporium. Had it not been for the interference ofpolit·
ical caucuses, and the public rejoicings on account of the
Pawnee delegation of Indians, whose lodgings were on
the floor of Concert Hall, Dr. Brandreth would have re·
ceiYed the congratulations of the Society for cradling
children. As it was, the Fifty A>sociates paid him their
respects, and bespoke an annual supply of the genuine
pills for all their tenants.
72 PATHOLOGIGAL INQUIRIES.
since the compositor began with the manuscript
of this volume, that l\liss T. is entirely J'estored,
-and further, that she will enter the silken
bonds of wedlock the coming spring.
Once more.-Sitting, one morning, in the
reading-room of the Tremont House, I noticed
a Southerner, of respectable, gentlemanly ap-
pearance, whose complexion was cadaverous,
and otherwise sickly to look at, leaning back in
an arm-chair, with the l\Iorning Post in one
hand, and the Atlas in the other. By and by,
he sprang upon !lis feet, jarring the furuiture,
and somewhat distmbing the town-loungers,
who haunt that pleasant apartment to the po~i­
tive annoyance of travellers, swore uuutt~rable
execrations against whigs ami tories; and then
sunk down upon his knees. Every person pres-
ent llew to his assistance; even 1\lr. .T. T., who
was never before known to relinquish a newspa-
per, howevC'r much it might be desired by others,
till all the advertisements were read three times
over, proffered his services. 1\Ir. Royden direct-
ed the way to a snug parlor, occupied by 1\Ir.
·wilson, that being his name, in the second sto-
ry. A physician came directly, examined the
pulse, ordered mustard-seed to the feet, and an
ounce of linseed-oil, dissolved in a quart of hot
.· 7)
PATHOLOGICAL I!IIQUIRJES. 73
water, to be given at suitable intervals, till the
whole was consumed.* Pretty soon, the patient
opened his eyes, and so far recovered the tone
of the organs ofspeech, as to say to the by-sland-
ers, that he was sorr)· to have created the pres-
ent alarm, because he did not consider himself
in any particular danger. He further continued,
-that, for the last twenty years of his life, he
had been subject to a nephritic complaint, that
produced excruciating torment, whenever his
mind became excited on politics. Why politics,
more than any other subject·, should oereave a
man of reason, no person has had the sagacity to
explain. The monstrous, terribly distortec.l ac-
counts of party aspects in Georgia, the state of
his nativity, in the two papers referred to, brou~ht
on the old pains, with a host of concomitants,
usually attendant.
After he was q11ite comfortable, I took my
leave, without once intimating my profetisional
• An old notion prevail<, that oil and \rater cannot be
mixed. It is time this vulgar error should be exposed.
Dr. L., 1:nmm toall the world for his ~kill, ne1·er had any
difficulty in combining them. The whole mi:;under>tand-
ing bet11·een the city authorities and the ex-fire-depart-
ment, arose out ofthis trifling affair- only one party knew
how to mix oil and water.
74 PATHOLOGICAL INQ.UIRIES.
character, and, within a few hours, consulted
1\Irs. }i'ox, as to the nature ofthe morbid condi-
tion of l\Ir. Wilson. No clue was given l1er to
his present or past state, nor did I even intimate
what had been witnessed just before. I simply
told her that a gentleman at the Tremont House,
dressed thus and so, of such and such character-
istics, was sick, and I wished for some knowl-
edge on the subject.
She designated him, in her somnambulic prep-
aration, from more than one hundred gentle-
men, then in the house, and told me as unhesi-
tatingly as a person would make a declaration
of facts then before their eyes, that a patch of
cotton cloth was in contact with his right kid-
ney. Cotton cloth touching a man's kidney !-
Impossible ! I exclaimed. She insisted upon it,
that there was no mistake in the mattcr,-the
cotton was there, and if an adroit operation was
performctl, it might yet be extracted, without se-
rious discomfiture to the patient. This improb-
able description of the cause of l\Tr. Wilwn's
nephritics, as I then regarded it, weighed w
ponderously upon my mind, that I could not
rest with comfort, till I called on him, which I
was justified in doing, as an act of courtesy, to
inquire how he found himself, since the fit. A
PATHOLOGICAL IXQUIRIES. i5
general conYersation ensued at this call, and
by degrees I learned that in his younger days
he had been guilty of fighting a duel, and that
}Je was badly wounded in the small of the back.
The wound was healed years and years ago, and
he did not conceive that the disease of wl1ich he
complained had the remotest possible connection
with the old wound. I boldly announced to him
that n patch of cotton cloth was enclosed in the
bed of the kidney, in contact with the psoas
muscle, and was the real source of all that he
l1ad sufl'ered. He was ultimr..tely persuaded to
enter the hospital, where the rag was taken out.
It may be seen by visiters, on inquiry, at any
time. K ow the fact was, the cotton patch was
shot from a rifle-pistol, with which the wound
was made. Four weeks from the day he left
the Tremont, he returned, sound in health and
strength.
Now, can the enemies of Animal l\Iagnetism
show any objections to the science, when it thus
becomes an important auxiliary to surgery 1-
The life of a man was here sa1·ed from an un-
timely grave, and through the exercise of that
very mysterious power, which many, otherwise
rational men, hold up to derision and contempt.
Were selfishness a predominant trait in my
76 PATHOLOGICAL INQUIRIES.
character, I migh~ swell this report to inconve-
nient dimensions, with cases like the foregoing,
corroborative of the advnntages that would ac·
crue to society, were physicians a little more
obliging. They seem to array themsEllves in
hostility to something they know nothing about.
I have the independence to disengag·e myself
from the prejudices of my professional brethren,
whP.never they manifest too much devotion to
old theories, to the exclusion of new pathologic-
al facts.
Although magnetizers are pretty common in
Boston, and so.me forty or fifty of the one hun-
dred and tweh·e of its practitioners now treat all
febrile, tetanic and parturient affections, by
manipulations; the remaining sixty-two are ob-
stinate unbelievers. At Nashua, Lowell, Cam-
bridge, Concord, Salem, and ·worcester, I am
sure the light of pure science is shining with
some degree of splendor. The endowment of a
professorship of Ani mal l\fagnetism at the Berk-
shire l\Iedical Institution, at Fairfield, N. Y.,
and at Northampton, as a necessary legal prepa-
tion before being admitted to the bar, I hail as
the dawning of a marvellous light. Those insti-
tutions will have the enviable reputation of hav-
ing availed themselves of the transcendant ad-
PATHOLOGICAL INQUIRIE£, 77
vantages of the science, when it was hooted and
despised by the ignorant; but the glory of hav-
ing sent out polished, learned magnetizers, will
redound to their reputation, when the revilers
of common sense will have been lost in the rub-
bish of eternity.
Columbia College, Schenectady, the Univer-
sity of Vermont, and Yale, huve been too cau·
tious ; no magnetism is taught in either of their
Halls, and hence their classes are yearly falling
off. Old Ilan·ard, on the contrary, the pride of
thousands, whose aspirations are for the posteri-
ty oftheir alma mater, has acted nobly in coup-
ling Animal Magnetism with the respectable
Rumford Professorship of Signs.*
* ""hat is the matter 1 ·with all the means of being
extensi\·ely u~eful, the cla>ses are not equal to the rc-
wurces of that ancient Institution. It cannot be in conse-
quence of there bein~ too many sinecures. Xo, nor is
there any Kant of talent in those who control its opera-
tions. Even the elocution of the radical Dr. Barber, pro-
fe&sor ofphrenolo;;y, elocution jelly, commentator general
on all thingsbut ju>t those \\"hich Kere absolutely ncce,:;ary
for a student to know, had not sutficient influence to mul-
tiply sophomore<, beyond the ordinary number. Is anr
man's knowledge honored at Cambridge, Khosc family
has not the means ofadding to the funds? Genius finds
~o encouragement at Harvard.
'7 .
CHAPTER VII.
PEEPS AT GREAT PEOPLE.
No one entertains a more decidedly contempt-
ible opinion of those w.ho deal in slanders and
inuendoes, th11n myself; and I would on no con-
sideration be iustrumentnl in stirring up strife
between 1lifferent political partisans, however
open they may have laid them:;eh·es to severe
animadversion. It so happened, repeatedly, that
l\Irs. Fox was left in a m11gnetic state, after
any particular series of observations had been
made, with a view of affording her rest, ·a more
comfortable rest than she could have had in
a noisy, bustling city, had she been always
awakened by transverse passes. She was thus
insulated completely, neither hearing the voices'
of those about her, unless purposely put in
magnetic communication, nor taking cogni-
zance of any transactions within the immediate
PEErs AT GREAT PEOPLE. i9
household. If the sleep was likely to be improp-
erly prolonged, her daughter, who was always
vigilant, broke the spell, and thus restored her
to voluntary action.
It was under the foregoing circumstances,
when alone, that she indulged the characteristic
curiosity of the sex, to look through society and
see what mankind were about behind the scenes.
As the en~rossing topic in the early part of No-
vember related to the coming election, she di-
rected her eyes, one rainy e\·ening, to the head-
quarters of the county Committee. Nothing, of
course could be heard, but the significant gestic-
ulations of the members was not to be misappre-
hended or wrongfully iuterpreted. A catalogue
of names was laid on the table before the pre-
siding officer, who cast a knowing eye to it, then
took it up, pointed to sereral of the names, di-
recting the attention of the association to one,
particularly. lie seized a tumbler of water,
which was raised to the lips, but he never tasted a
drop of it-shaking his head violently, still look-
ing and pointing at the ominous name, as much
as to say, this candiJate for the people's suff-
rages, drinks no water. At this they all raised
their right hands, as they do at the police court.
It was supposed, therefore, that a vote was taken,
80 rEJ!:rS A.T GREAT rEOrLE.
for the president forthwith erased it with seem-
ing satisfaction.* 1\Irs. Fox thought she discov-
ered here an evident influence of the spirit of
temperance. Every person at all conversant
with the doings of the Whig General Committee,
knO\vs that no individual, known to be an habitual
consumer of ardent spirit, was in nomination for
any office in the gift of the inhabitants.t Long
may this happy change in the public sentiment
remain. It has purged the Legislature, as it has
the national councils, of brutes in the shape of
men. Let no drunkard or moderate tippler, be a
candidate for offi~e, howel'er humble or exalted,
in a community in which there are rights to be
* 'Vhen a certain notoriously sober candidate was of-
ficially informed that the State could dispense with his
services, he made bitter lamentations. Since that event-
ful day he has been heard to mutter in the purlieus of
Court Square, at high twelve, the first line of the first
1•erse of the ninth chapter of the prophet Jeremiah.
t There is still room for improvement, which will be
expressly pointed out in a forth-coming production. Some
very decently respectable dead-weights uron society may
rely upon having faithful portraits. .l\Irs. Fox has looked
in upon them at theirsecrethaunts, and wonders that their
incipient carbuncled visages, their gourmand appetites,
and utter rotteness ofcharacter, is not perceived. Eut the
day of developments is at hand.
PEEPS AT GREAT PEOPLE. 81
preserved, principles to maintain, or a code of
morals to be respected.
Another name was called. The President
also turned it to the committee, showing, by his
smiling expression, that no Jifficulties were in the
way. All voted, as they did before, and each one
wrote it on a skeleton ticket for convenient ref~
erence. Up came another, and yet another, till
one of the c'ommittee by an infuriated look, su~
ceeded in arresting the voting process, on the
eve of. being made. He rose in his place and
swang about both arms as freely as though they
were tied to the shoulders by a thong. One or
two ~::vidently tried to stop him, but ineffectual-
ly, as he began to stamp, and finally took up an
ink-stand. It was not thrown at the chair, as
l\Irs. Fox momentarily expected; still, by his ve-
hement manner against the apparent determina-
tion of the committee, he fairly carried the
point; for, rather than prolong a discussion,
the names oftwo of the best citizens of lloston
were expunged,-a sacrifice to the caprice of
one who has neither talent or character, but the
reputation of being a noisy meddler. " This
individual," said l\Irs. Fox, "whose face is "fa-
miliar to me now, having since recognized him
in the streets, and sought out both his name
7"
82 PEEPS AT GREAT PEOPLE.
and place, never was admitted into the society
of well-bred people. He was conscious that he
had no claims upon them, and never obtruded
where, both by habit and feeling, he would
ha1'e felt no companionship; yet, in this polit-
ical relationship, all his acquired prejudices
against individuals superier to himself, were
suftered to pass nnrebuked, because it was con-
sidered expedient to compromise, that is, hu-
mor his dislikes, that others might be accom-
modated in turn." In this manner a list ofrep-
resentatires is made out for the dear people,-
a mere machine, with hands, to drop Yates into
a ballot-box.
Having scrutinized one of the belligerent par-
ties in popular political array, she called in up-
on an assembly of Van Burenites, a small body,
but extraYagantly excited. The room was suf-
focatingly full of ardent patriots. Seeing was
an unsatisfactory gratification,-and she regret-
ted that Magnetism had not done for the ear
what it had for the eye. None of the party ap-
peared to be in pain, though their visag·es were
occasionally shockingly distorted. This could
not be accounted for by any common rules of
judging. Matters were conducted much as they
were in the other conclave, with this exception,
PEEPS AT GUEAT PEOPLE. 83
-when the president had gone through a sin-
gularly significant pantomime, seemingly well
understood, an,d appreciated too, by those in
front of the desk, (for they frowned simultane-
ously,) be held up a broad sheet, inscribed with a
host of names. For a while, there was an ap-
parent stillness; at least, no one moved a limb,
and it was therefore supposea the whole ticket
was read aloud. By and by, up went all bands.
This '~as an acceptance by acclamation. No
erasures, no index fingers, no speeches indi-
cated dissatisfaction,-the whole, unbroken and
unmutilated, met thqir entire approbation. At
this point of the exhibition, i\lrs. Fox withdrew
her attention and left them, as she entered, in
spirit, unknown and unseen. She said to me,
afterwards, that she came to the conclusion,
from the unanimity of the gentlemen at this cau-
cus, that they only wanted numbers at the poles,
to carry any measure they chose, however uto-
pian or radical in its tendency,
Once, and but once, l\Irs. Fox indulged her-
self with an interior view of the \Yhite House,
at Washington. There sat a little bald-pated
man at a writing-table, quite alone, reading in a
venerable old book. He neither appeared un-
happy, or discovered, by any muscle of the face,
84 PEEPS AT GREAT PEOPLE.
that the mind was particularly joyful. The
hour was late,-fires were out, servants had re-
tired, and everything bespoke ~rder and quiet-
ness: studious, without bustle ; thoughtful, be-
cause the author evidently ga,·e activity to his
mind ; he continued in one unchanged position
till l\Irs. Fox shrunk from the apartment with a
deep sense of having done a ruder act than·she
cared to be guilty of. "Ifthat was the President
of the United States," she jocosely reH;~arked,
"he cares much less about the political aspect of
the times, than any person within the pale of the
General Government."
'Vith considerable hesitation, she consented
to call on the Post-1\Iaster-General. He seemed
not at all couscious of the presence of any per-
son in the snug niche in which he was writing.
He would screw and twist himself into all imag-
inable facial contortions, showing that his mind
was in precisely the same uncomfortable state.
'Vhen a few senteuces were finished, by erasures,
crosses, and numerous iuterlineations, easing
back for the favorable assistance of the lamp, he
read the composition to himself, and then bowed
himself to the labor again ofparturiating anoth-
er sentiment. Over the top of the sheet was a
coarse superscription, thus:-" For tlte Globe."
PEEPS AT GREAT PEOPLE. 85
l\Irs. Fox had read of the Globe, and 1\Ir.
Blair, Printer of Congress, &c., but had never
seen either. The Post-Master's composition
induced her to go a little farther. She did so,
and made the editor a regular visitation. In an
apartment adjoining the principal press-room of
the Globe office, sat a man before an expiring
fire, partially enveloped in newspapers, smoking
and reading, as though he fully enjoyed both.
Occasionally he laid down tl1e cigar, to cut out a
Iine,-having then lying on the table a dozen
strips thus selected, cut and dried for the com-
positor. After waiting considerably longer than
she considered it proper,-not being at any time
able to di,·est herself of the idea that she was as
visible to others as they were to her, and feel-
ing but poorly compensated for the trip to 'Vash-
ington, the capital was abandoned altogether.
She expressed herself heartily cured of all po-
litical biases, either one way or the other,-be-
ing satisfied, from personal observation, that the
men whom party f<li'Or has elevated to the pin-
nacles of fame, by giving them all that the re-
sources of a nation hare to bestow, viz. wealth,
present honor, and a name on the page of histo-
ry, care much less about their worshippers than
they can be made to believe. Though she saw
86 PEEPS AT GREAT PEOPLE.
but a few public functionaries, and those en-
gaged, they were men ofquiet deportment, unob-
trusive, for they were entirely alone; anti she
came away impressed with the idea, that not
one of them cared a straw for those who have
borne the brunt of the battle to make them men
of historical renown.*
* Since the above was written, l\lrs. Fox could not for-
bear taking a look down State Street. Though ?.Ir. Fox
had nothing at stake in the Commonwealth Bank, she
knew that others had, and her discoveries, five days before
the bursting of the bubble, \\·ere truly exciting. Moral
honesty was there. personified, and the directors, to a man,
fed sparingly, fur more than a week, well knowing that
dieting was necessary for men in whom lurked the seeds
of pecuniary dissolution. A further examination will be
had, and the public may rely upon a post-mortem examin-
ation of each indi\•idnal, directly, who ha5 figured as an
automa\on in the hands offraudulent public fllllctionaries
in the precincts of the ·white House.
" Beg, that thou mu.y'st have leave to h::wg thyse]f:
And yet, thy wealth being forfeit to the Stttte,
Thou hast not left the \'nlue ofa cord j
Therefore, thou must be hanged at the State'il charge.
!tJERCH.l.NT OF VENICE,
CHAPTER VIII.
WO::-IDERS OF OTHER WORLDS,
HouRs were occasionally devoted to the ap·
pearance of things in those profo.nnd labyt inths
of the earth, .where no combinations of httm:tn
ingenuity can display them ; but I am admon-
ished, by the roluminonsness to which this me-
moir tends, to forego the relation of many stir-
ring displays of Mrs. Fox's splendid gift of
clairvoyance, to chronicle the wonders of those
distant worlds in the far hem·ens, which hare
wheeled through the unsurreyed regions of the
sl<y, in their appropriate orbits, where the same
controlling power that bid the restless ocean to
limit the action of its proud wa\·es, has kept
them in their prescribed routes, since that erent-
ful period when they were first launched into
the boundless regions of space.
One pleasant afternoon, bu~iness haring been
88 WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS.
perfectly arranged, that there might be no un-
necessary interruption, -l\Indam, said I, it
would oblige me if you would inspect the moon.
The proposition was quite acceptable. She had
herself often had it in contemplation to try the
entire strength of her vision, to points beyond
those to which it had heretofore been exerted.
Perhaps thirty minutes elapsed in getting in
readiness for observation, and full fifteen more
before the moon was recognized. The reason
of this was, that hundreds of asteroids, or small
opaque bodies were continually flitting before
her eyes, greatly impeding the view. By and
by she fastened upon it, a huge dark world.
Mountains and alternate vallies, as described by
astronomers, were the first displays on its gib-
bous surface. She was then requested to exam-
ine the side which, being always turned from
the earth, never has been seen, even in outline,
by the best telescopes. That portion, therefore,
is lara incognita. No glasses can reach it ; but
she could penetrate its very centre, and come
out on the opposite point.
Instantly, as it were, she exclaimed, "I see a
long lake, on the margin of which are the queer-
est animals imaginable. They neither resem-
ble horses or men, yet they have four leqs; the
WO~DERS OF OTI!Eit WORLDS. 8!)
hind ones being hoofed, but the foremost have
ciaws, long and slender." I urged upon her the
importance of marking every particular in the
external organization, which I am bound to be-
lieve she did with much truth and discretion.
In order to make me comprehend their structure,
a sketch was made on the spot, corresponding
with their exact outline in every respect, which
her skill in drawing enabled her to produce with
considerable facility.
The fore legs, or arms, \\"ere a third longer,
according to the picture, than the others, and
were corered, as was the whole body, wiih bright
green feathers. Each claw had just three fingers,
terminated by a hooked nail, a foot in leugth.
The body bore a little resemhlance to that of an
ostrich, so that when one of them stood erect,
as many of them did 011 their hind feet, the legs
a!>peared to he articulated to the middle of
the abdomen. The lower portion of the belly,
therefore, hung doiYn like an inverted one, be-
tween the thighs. This was further eked out
into a short tail, tufted with a silky kind of
hair. In an upright position, the tail came
within three feet of the ground. This position
was ob,·iously an uncomfortable one, as the tip of
the claws, first one side and then the other, were
8
90 WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS,
frequently dropt to the plane of the feet, to main-
tain a perpendicular. From the union of the
arms at the top of the chest, a neck, full twelve
feet long, shot out, not more than four inches in
diameter, fringed with the same beautiful green
hair on the inferior side, like a flowing mane, dis-
coverable on the tail. Nothing could be more
striking than the configuration of the head,
bearing some slight resemblance to an ele-
phant's; instead of a proboscis, on each side,
where ears are located on terrestrial animals,
two long, slender, flexible tubes took their origin.
They were moved about with the most perfect
freedom, in all directions, and through them
they probably breathed. A mouth was no where
detected, on or about the cranium ; but a valvu-
lar opening at the root of the neck, into which an
odd species of crab was introduced, unquestion-
ably fulfilled the offices ofa mouth. While some
of these monsters were wading in an erect pos-
ture, dragging the bottom with their wide-spread-
ing claws, others sat sunning themselves on the
hank, rubbing themselves with handfuls ofleaves,
or searching each other's feathers for vermin.
They appeared social in character, though rath-
er irritable. In actual bulk, they exceeded a
moose. No climate, apparently, could be finer,
tho air seeming to be mild and agreeable.
WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS. !)1
All the shrubbery about the lake was strange·
ly stinted, though of a lively green; even the
rocks, as well as the soil, were extremely green..,
Perhaps two miles from that ever-to-be-remem-
bered aquatic spot, a cluster of rude huts rose to
view, co!lfined to the brow of a mountain so vast:
ly high that no attempt was e\·er made, at a sub-
sequent hour of leisure, to measure its altitude.
The huts were shaped much like inrerted bas-
kets, the doors being low, hardly four feet high,
yet .\Irs. Fox had a fair opportunity of peeping
directly into a number ofthem. Neither fire or
smoke were discernible any where on the moon,
* 1\Irs. Fox differs but a lillie, in her descriptton of lu-
nar scenery, from l\liss Brackett, who avers that she has
been there twice. l\Iiss Brackett, in some respects, was
more fortunate in her obsen·ationsthan our Boston friend,
as she certainly saw sa\'age men, and once caught them
eating out of a wooden bowl, with their bare hands Xow
Mrs. Fox was satisfied of the existence of an atmosphere
in the moon; whereas, :'>Iis,; Brackett had great difficulties
to Ol'ercome on arriving in its neighborhood, on account
ofnot ha'l"ing a physical organization for existing without
air. After this fact was ascertained, she im·ariably held
her breath all the time. l\Irs. Fox had no such 1·exations,
because the axis of vision was only elongated, and the
spirit remained at home. i\Iiss Brackett, on the other
hand, merely left her body behind, while the soul drifted
offin person::e:
92 WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS.
which confirms her in the opinion that no use
whatever is made of that element, there, even
by those beings possessing the most intelligence.
·within the buts, the young of the animals or
men, whichever they may be hereafter denomi-
nated, were sleeping on piles of lunar vegetables.
Hither and thither, troops of this second order of
animated figures were loitering about the settle-
ment. None of them exceeded the height of a
yard-stick. All were perfectly naked, though
profusely ornamented with ·evergreens entwined
around their limbs. Although they had but two
arms and two legs, growing from nearly the
same point each side of the abdomen, from the
usual place of the na,·el, a fifth limb had its ori-
gin, eight feet long. In appearance it was of
bone, but made .up of a series of distinct articula-
tions, over which they exercised a complete volun-
tary control. \Vheunot in use, it was rolled up out
of the way, in a compnct manner, like the main-
spring of a watch. The only possible usc 1\Irs.
Fox could discover of this extraordinary piece of
vital mechanism, was this. The creature would
project the end till it touched the ground, when,
suddenly throwing itself into a horizontal pc>si-
tion, keep straightening the instrument, joint by
joint, till the IJody was fearfully balanced on
WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS. 93
the 1·ery top of a slender pole, as it were. This
done, the individual commenced whirling on its
axis with inconceivable velocity, hours together.
She saw, on sereral occasions, hundreds of them
all amusing themsclres together in front of the
village of huts, in this singular manner. Anoth-
er move was made, and she swept the landscape
o1·er hills and dales, looking with intense inter-
est on those unexplored lunar fields. Quadru-
peds were quite common, though not large.
Generally, they were analogous to the feline
races of our earth, but rarying in this essential
particnlar; they are all of the same bright green
by which the semi-bipeds were characterized.
Their paws, in all she saw, were disproportion-
ably large and long, and, moreorer, they were,
as a race, distinguished by appendices to the
head, somewhat like miniature probosces. The
mechanical ad1·antages of those flexible tubes
were of infinite value in holding on at the
abrupt sides of the mountains, their natural
abodes, about which they habitually roamed.
Birds with four eyes are common in the moon.
Their heads, and the shape is uniform in all the
specimens of lunar ornithology, were perfectly
round, and seemed too ponderous to be supported
with case at the extremity of their long, slender
8*
94 WONDERS OF OTIIF.R WORLDS.
necks. 'While at rest, they stood erect, as pen-
guins do,-lool\ing towards all points of the com-
pass, without at all changing the position of
either head or body. l\Irs. Fox once counted
thirty-seven birds all on the wing at once, coming
down from a mountain. Some of them were of
the dimensions of wild geese, whilst others in
the same flock extended their enormous wings
over forty feet.
Serpents of monstrous dimPnsions were al-
ways plenty in all the vallies,-co\·ered, too,
entirely with green feathers. This is an anom-
aly which no philosopher, no, not even the
most ingenious, has succeeded in explaining
upon satisfactory principles, why all the lunar
beings of the inferior orders should be clothed
in green feathers.. 'Yhen those terrific snakes
were running, frequent and sudden stops were
made, as though they were alarmed by a noise.
Then slowly raising their, blood-red heads,
full t~irty feet in the air, they gazed round a
while, and then resumed their rapid progress.
l\1rs. Fox assured me that the skeleton seen
under the white house in Hartford, was not more
offensively horrible than the green serpents of
the moon. While gazing intently upon one, as it
came winding down the rugged sides of a moun-
/
/
WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS. 95
tain, partially in sight one moment, then con-
cealed the next uy the dark shadows of over-
hanging rocks, or by the rocks themselves, it
came rushiug into view, with five new animals,
different from any she had then seen, mounteu
on its back. In truth, they were riding, and a
fleet movement it was too, for they rarely run at
a less rate than the cars on the Worcester rail-
road.l(< As the serpent neared the plain, the
peculiarities of the bodily shape of the volti-
geurs were distinctly considered. Having dis-
mounted, ltbe obedient serpent vermiculated
wherever it chose, which renders it certain that
the race has become subservient to the wants
* :Mrs. Fox has permitted me to introduce a note here,
to correct what would otherwise not have expre~sed her
ideas in the text. When thefigure or comparison ,,.as made
of the relati\·e velocity of the lunar serpents to rail-road
speed, she was supposing that the \Vorcester road was
distinguished for its rapidtty; but has the mortification, on
inquiry, to learn that the corporation have abandoned
steam power altogether, and now employ a large \'arietv
ofsnails, called the Carrackfurgus breed, to drag passc;-
gers between Boston and \Vorcester- fare 8 2, which in
humble imitation of the ;\lede and Pe~ian code, is nc,·er
to be changed, blow high or low :-a fig for h:m.l times;-
let the people stay at home if they can't afford the regular
price.
9(1 WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS.
and necessities of the inhabitants, who have
domesticated them for personal service.
The men, for so Mrs. Fox felt constrained to
call them, were of the common stature of the
native Bangorians. They were offensively
naked, with the single exception of a mantle
suspended from the neck, which resembled the
bark of a tree. Their legs were remarkably
short, and terminated !:>y claws. Their arms
were full of joints, after the fashion of the
umbilical apparatus in those she first saw at
the lake, and, at their extremities, were quite
broad, long-fingered hands.
One ofthem, after a variety ofmanceuverings,
set a tri-cornered dish on the ground, out of
which they gluttonously fed themselves with the
proboscis. ·when the meal was finished, the
prehensile mouth was drawn within the head.
Females could not be identified from males, nor
were any young ones ohsened; the g·roup was
therefore considered to be constituted wholly of
adults.
Another section of the lunar surface, judged
to be six hundred miles from the habitation of
the feathered serpents, was brought into ocular
view. 1\Irs. Fox embraced, in the field of her
telesopic vision, about eight hundred square
WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS. 97
mountains, indented, at their summits, in the
form of craters ;-but in lieu of fire being 1·omit·
ed from their towering peaks, a column of
moulten liquid kept l1earing and boiling orer
the brims, and then trickle!l down their gibbous
sides to the profound abyss below. All the
rirers in the vicinity of these mountains were
probably filled with heated water.
It would not hare occurred to .i\Jrs. Fox that
such was the fact, had she not fortunately been
favored with a norel exhibition, confirmatory of
this theory. "'hile watching a body of scorim,
earth and roots bound .together in a confused
cal\e, as it floated down the current through the
pro\'ince of 1\lontani, (so christened on account of
the general aspect of the country) one of the cat-
like animals heretofore described, came leaping
down the rocky sides of a terribly steep eleYation,
pursued by a phalanx of beasts altogether new,
differing most singularly from any others brougl1t
before her. As the poor frightened cat reached
the bank, it sprang with prodigious muscular
agility into the midst of the strcnm, with the in-
tention, doubtless, of landing on the floating
mass,-but, missing it-souse she went, entirely
under, and though submerged scarcely four
seconds, when she came to the surface, e'·ery
98 WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS.
vestage of skin had been stripped or scalded
from the body. All the bare cords and sinews
were exposed, even to their origin and insertion
on the bones. With the fore paws resting on
the edge of the rolling island a moment only,
away the miserably creature fell again, and
never afterwards came into view.
No mortal e\·er beheld such unearthly figures
before, as were those in pursuit of the moon-cat.
They were exceedingly like toads, only alto-
gether superior to those harmless reptiles in
size-for they exceeded nine feet in length, by
five in breadth across the shoulders. Besides,
they had long tails curled over upon the back,
armed with three spurs at the end. They pro-
jected themselves by leaps, with the hind legs,
from seven to ten rods at each successive spring,
which gave them manifest advantages over other
quadrupeds in point of rapid progression. Good
evidence was made of their carnivorous pro-
pensity, as l\1rs.Foxsawone of them, in apparent
rage, grasp the head of a companion, which
was severed from the body in a twinkling, and
'afterwards leisurely eaten,-showing the canibal
disposition of the race ; others sprang upon the
body, tearing it into shreds, which was devoured
with ravenous despatch. 1\:lore than half ofthis
WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS. 99
great troop of moon-toads gave off from the sur-
face of their heads a dense exhalation, like
tobacco smoke. It curled and twined above
them, like halos round the winter stars.
A characteristic of animated nature in the
moon, is facial gravity. All the animals pre-
sent the expression of deep solemnity or sober-
ness. No playfulness of disposition seems to be
manifested on any occasion ; but a melancholy
sort of sedateness, even when stimulated by the
chase, or the presence of society, marks all
their movements.*
Near by the grand toad locality, a new scene
broke in upon her excited vision, indescribably
thrilling. It was a magnificent fountain in the
middle of an extensive plain, throwing up a jet
*It was suggested that they were probably living in
fear of being deposited in the cabinet of some ?{atural
History Society, those modern Golgothas, in which there
are more specimens th1n science. It must be a melan-
choly prospect to reflecting animals,- such as monkeys
a"nd dromedaries, that if they fall into the hands of any
one of the legion of honorary members, there will be no
peace to their manes.-There is one gentleman jn North
America who has the distinguished honor of not being a
member of any society,-all the rest of the population,
however, able to pay assessments, are enrolled somewhere,
--and each one is learned in proportion to his money.
100 \VONDI::RS OF OTUER WORLDS.
of liquid fire, like molten brass, full three miles
in perpendicular height. When it had reached
its destined altitude, the summit exceeded in
brilliancy an auroral illumination on terra firma,
or a shower of meteors on the thirteenth of
No\·ember.>< 'Vhatever the fluid mass might be
-it roamed and sparkled in gorgeous splendor,-
and when uptost by the resistless force below, it
dashed back again upon the margin of the
mighty ~hasm through which it carne, in con-
vulsive pulsations. Even at the vast distance at
which Mrs. Fox was seated from this pyrotechy
of the moon, the scintillations of dazzling light
were quite too concentrated for her eyes.
'Vithin twelve miles, judging by comparison,
of the burning fountain, a populous settlement
rose into view. In the first place, there were
* On the 13th of November, annually, m·er the city of
New Haven, the stars ofthe firmament play most singular
antics; the entertainment usually closes at daylight in the
morniug, by the spontaneous fall of se•·eral hundred fire-
brands. This phenomenon is significantly called Olm-
stead's Benefit NiglLt, because he feels at liberty to re-
deluge the leamed with a milk and water theory iu the
American Journal of Science: The first idea of the
double cylinder stove, invented by the professor to warm
houses without heat, was first suggested by watching the ·
zenith on the 13th.
WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS, 101
just twenty-four fabrics, in color like granite,
shaded with a changeable blue, built up against
r.ocks, which projected from the sides and base
of the mountains.* Some were twenty feet-
some a little less, and one exceeded the height of
t!Je Park Street steeple. Into this unique taber-
nacle, or it is .possible that it may be a public
building devoted to secular business, a long pro-
cession was entering, at the instant of being
seen,-each individual of which, bearing upon
the head, a great green serpent, coiled into the
smallest convenient compass.
Every person in the procession had a proboscis,
clearly disco\·erable, but the shape of the head
could not be ascertained, on account of the
burden upon the shoulders, which concealed it.
Their legs were similar to those of the camel,
protected at the knees by thick projecting cuticu-
lar pads. Thus, in general form oforganization,
* On perusing Incidents of Travels,by a pert young Iaw-
yer, of New York, the reader will be sati>fied, as far as
the "·eight of evidence is concerned, that the de~cription
of the excavated city of Petra, the capital of Idumea,-
whcre Esau took up his abode, after separating from his
brother Jacob, was copied verbatim fromi\lr~. Fox's notes
on the architecture of the moon. How little confidence is
to be placed in travellers-why I 'irould hardly belie\'e
'Viiiis the dandy poet,- 'pon his honor.
9
102 \VONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS.
they were bona-fide men, with the exception of
$hort tails stuck through the seats of their kilts,
which were briskly moved as though they were
brushing away a cloud ofinsects.
Being perfectly exhausted with these anoma~
lous sights, so much at variance with all to which
she harl before been accustomed, l\Irs. Fox
expressed an unwillingness to pursue the inquiry
any longer. Reluctantly, to be su.re, I was
compelled to acquiesce in the determination,
anxious as I was to know more, by the only
certain means the world has known, of that
nearest planetary body, about which philosophers
have speculated since the commencement of the
history of man. Aided as they have been for
the last seventy years, by glasses of immense
magnifying power, astronomers have after all
presented us with only a bare outline of its
geological features. No progress can be made
in minute surveys by telescopes. To l\Irs. Fox,
then, is the age indebted for the clearest, most
probable and circumstantial accounts of its
natural productions and physical appearances.
l\Iore than a fortnight passed away before the
lady could divest her mind of the images of
those beings ; they seemed to haunt her in her
slumbers, and occupy her thoughts through the
WONDF.RS OF OTHER WORLDS. 103
day. There is an inconceivable feeling in
realizing, that of the countless billions of human
beings who have been upon the stage since the
creation, she alone has been the only solitary
individual permitted to witness the actual con-
dition of the moon.
However, after exercising as much patience,
as a person could in the excited state to which
these discoveries had raised me, at the end of two
weeks l\Ir. Fox called at my lodgings one sunny
morning, to announce the agreeable intelligence
that his lady felt sufficiently recruited to recom-
mence a tour in the heavens. Nothing could
have been more acceptable; and the same after-
noon, with but little preparation for the long pro-
posed journey, l\Irs. Fox ascended to the planet
Saturn.
Were I to be minute in chronicling m·ery
exclamation that dropped from her lips, or re-
peat her thousands of surprises on reaching the
scene of new wonders, which this jaunt opened
to her wondering gaze, there would be scarcely
room for any thing else.
Being heartily and devotedly intent on record-
ing simple facts, which I feel a presentiment are
'to be guiding stars in after times in the sublime
study of astrooomy,-and withal, sensible of the
}04 WONDERS OF OTHER WORLDS.
impetus that will necessarily be given to the
noblest of the exact sciences, it is hardly worth
while to apologize for l•eeping to the letter of
the de1·elopments. In the appendix ~fa forth-
coming volume, on which I am engaged, ll'ith
reference to reconciling these disco1·eries to the
known principles of optics, embracing numerous
notes and practical illustrations for a college text-
book,* it will be my purpose to introduce
various collateral proofs and observations that
could n<lt with propriety be interwoven here,
without swelling the present memoir lo incon-
venient dimensions.
* I like to keep promising, like a pet bank, that ~orne­
thing is forth~oming. This is a mode of keeping the
world on the qui vive. A general plan of my proposed
literary undertakings for the ensuing spring, bear a strik-
ing·resemblance to i\lr. Graham's lectures on the Jaws of
life. Call on three hundred and four of his famished fol-
lowers in the city of Boston, for particulars, or Fanny
·wright Durismont's disciples, which are as plenty as
quack doctors, ten to a street.
"There is enough written upon this earth,
To stir a mutiny in the mildest thought,
And arm ihe mind3 of infants to exc]aim,"-
Tnus A~oaoxtc~;~.
CHAPTER IX.
EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
NEVER were astronomers more greatly deceiv-
e d, than in all they have told us of the planet
Saturn. In the first place, its magnitude is but
about one-eighth of what those retailers of the
man·ellous have unwarrantably represented.
An ocular deception is something of an apology
for them ; but, with their high pretensions to
accuracy, they ought to have detected that pecu-
liar law of light which gives an apparent increase
to a body at certain distances. "Then parallel
rays leave a luminous object in celestial space,
at ten trillions of leagues from the sun, the true
_magnitude of that body from which the rays are
reflected, are inversely as the square of the
distance.*
~Those only, possessing the true phrenological bumpifi-
cations, will fathom these propositions. Education does
9*
J06 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
Probably this is the first public effort to cor-
rect the blunders of those nomades of the upper
air. Again, they descril>e Saturn as beitig sur-
rounded or rather embraced by two vast rings,
one within the other, with a space intervening
of some thousands of miles; and, lastly, give a
climax to their romantic description, by declar-
ing that he is attended, in his endless circuit, by
seven obedient moons.
For the honor of science, and for the honor
too of these United States, I hope the press will
lend its energetic aid in sweeping away the mist
of ignorance which has thus far enveloped this
sublime study, by circulAting far and wide the
revelations of this chapter. But, were the frater-
nity of type-setters to withhold their important
co-operation, the light of reason, the doctrine of
analogies, and, above all, the free spirit of com-
mon sense, ere long, must totally overthrow the
nothing towards instilling ideas; there must be a cerebral
organization, sui generis, to be an astronomer. I!! 1\'las-
sachusetts, lamentable as it is, there are but two classes
of individuals who can profit by the exposition of this fun- .
damentallaw of light, viz. the editors of Almanacs and
the gentlemen conducting the celebrated trigonometrical
survey under the auspices of the legislature. To the lu·
cid report of the latter, all:the people are referred, who pay
taxes.
EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS. 107
monstrous absurdities of lite present boasted tri-
umphs of modern astronomy.
l\Irs. Fox watclted those great horizontal hoops
which encircle Saturn, many tedious hours pefore
disco,·ering their true composition and their util-
ity in the economy of that planet. At length
the point was gained ; for there was an unfold-
ing, as it were, of tlte mystery of their structure
and relationship to their primary. Instead of
two rings, there is but one, and that is nothing
more nor le~s than a collP.ction of water, so exact-
ly balanced in space, that, having once been set
in motion and partaken of the rotary movement
of Saturn, whose diurnal and forward velocity
is prodigious, inconceivably rapid, full a million
of miles a day, that the aqueous collection can
never become erratic or wander from its pre.
scribed orbit. The momentum it has acquired
maintains its integrity.
When the solar heat acts upon one half of it,
as it does, fifteen years at a time, alternately,
first on one side and then on the other, an im.
mensity of it is evaporated. As the vapor ex-
pands till it comes within the attractive influence
of the planet, whose atmosphere is cold as Green-
land, it is instantly condensed, and falls on por·
tions of Saturn in copious rains. Periodical
108 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
rains, therefore, are established there, as in equa-
torial latitudes on our earth. In the West In-
dies, for example, the rainy season lasts about
three months; but there, fifteen complete years.
On the other hand, when this water exhales
from the deluged soil, vegetation, &c., the incli-
nation of the sun is such in regard to the ring,
that it becomes extremely cold on that half of
the planet, even several degrees below the ordi-
nary temperature indicated by a thermometer in
theStreights ofSunday. Thus, the vapor, as it is
raised by solar might, rushes ofl:' till it meets the
distant atmosphere, when it again becomes con-
densed and mingles with its primitive element
in the ring. Thus, there is a ceaseless action
continually goiug on between Saturn and his
watery belt; ' the former being fertilized and in-
vigorated by the water, which is returned home
when the object of its mission has been accom-
plished.
What an admirable arrangement is this !
Could puny man, the little thing of a day, with
all his boasted intelligence, contrive mechanism
like this! Who can contemplate these glorious
displays, this harmonious circle of action, pro-
ducing, in a far distant world, all the benefits de-
rived from the regular succession of day and
EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS. 109
night, altlwugh of fifteen years uninterrupted
duration, and not exclaim that he is of no ac-
count in the undefined uni1·erse,-an invisible
moat, floating on the ocean of time 1 *
lly repeated observations, l\Irs. Fox a~certain­
ed, for a moral certainty, that the seven satellites
so constantly adverted to in connection with
Saturn, are pure balls of fire, playing about their
primary, underthe restraints imposed upon them
by well-known laws of attraction and repulsion.
Without those hot bodies and the ile1·ice of their
harmonious arrangement, another of those glori-
* T o admire, one should learn the an. l\Iiss r.Iartineau
is cordially referred to, as au admirable example to follow
in disciplining oneself that way. Dr. Paley, :;\1r. Dick,
and the .i\Iessrs. Abbots, are tame authors, and by no means
'vorth the attention of those who lo1·e to exalt themsel>es
and refine the heart by easy contemplations. l\1iss ::\Iar-
tineau has the true fire ofgenius, the poetry of conception.
H ad she been a man instead of an old maid, there is no
calculating what her destiny would have been on her late
visit to this infantile counll'l'. As it was, ~he '1\as not in-
sensible to the flatteries. of sycophants in wrplice, who
hoped for immortality in her diary. Her ingratitude to
that select few who bellowed into her capacious ears all
the slander of the continent, must feel happily recom-
pensed for the just tribute of respect expressed by her for
the gonrnment, institutions, macners and customs of the
United States.
110 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
ous displays referred to by the literati, the globe
of Saturn would be wholly unfit for the residence
of organized beings. The transcendant heat
constantly radiated from those brilliant moons,
as they are universally though improperly called,
is sufficient to keep the solid earth warmed, and
maintain the vitality of animal and vegetable
life. It seems to be mainly by the absorption
of calorific rays that this beneficial life-preserving
.effect is produced. The sun has no agency
whaterer in maintaining the requisite degree of
temperature, being at a distance altogether too
great to excercise even a remote influence.
Eclipses ofthe moons of Saturn, in the language
of the old philosophers, or rather as we are
taught by the present discoveries, involves
nothing that is mysterious in their phenomena;
indeed, to give credit where it is due, the books
of science are measurably correct in the declara-
tion that the rays from the sun are occasionally
interrupted in the course which they have a ten-
dency to run, by Saturn himself, and this gives
the appearance of an eclipse of one or more of
the fire-balls.
'Vhen it happens that any one of .the seven
receives the direct, though necessarily feeble
light, from the centre of the solar system, the
EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS. 111
appearance is vi'vid. Friction, or the resistance
of invisible matter in the regions through which
their se\·eral orbits pass, keeps up the maximum
heat, which is always the same.
This fluid or matter, whateyer it may be, is
both elastic, invisible and impenetrable, contrib-
uting always the elements of fire. On the sur-
face of Saturn there are no stupendous moun-
tains, no deep ravines, as in the cheerless moon.
Nature in the fair climate of Saturn, assumes
her most captivating aspect, and, from all that
can be ascertained, it is altogether the happiest
residence in which mortals could be placed in
the nebulre to which the seven worlds of the so-
Jar system belongs. Kine great cities, magnifi-
cent beyond description, the quiet habitations of
intelli6ent beings, were all miJJutely examined
at one sitting, being within the circumference of
a circle embraced by the eye. They occupied an
appareut area of one hundred miles, guarded on
their suburban boundaries by tremendous great
hollow spheres, rolling with unearthly speed just
outside the gates, !allen with "\nacks. These
balls 1·aried considerably in size, some being n
thousand feet in diameter, and others falling be-
low two hundred-bearing to each other there·
lative proportions of large and small vessels, en-
tering in or sailing out of port.
112 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
These curious vehicles rolled amazingly rapid-
ly, not only round individual cities, but also from
one to the other, with the facility of well-managed
coaches on a high way. It was obvious, by the
uniform movements of the larger class which
contiuually ran :~round the extreme boundaries
of a city, that they were some way connected
with a vigilant police regulation.*
In the axes ofthe balls, (for so I continue to
designate them, because I am an admirer of
simplicity of language in descriptive narrative,)
there are extremely large round openings, so
that, in passing, l\lrs. Fox looked clear through
to the opposite circular \Vindow. 'Vithin, on a
level with the under side of the polar axis wiu-
dow, a sort of a flooring was rigged, suspended
*Rapid driving, in New York and Boston, indicates a
disposition to copy their neighbors in:saturn ; but it shows,
at the same time, a most miserable lack of energy in cer-
tain officer~, who permit reckless Jehus to crack the bones
of women and children, every other day in the year, a.s
though they were offered in sacrifice to the tutelar deity of
the city. Of all municipallawl', let those which have been
enacted to preserve the citizen~, be rigidly enforced. "\Ve
know not, having never inquired, but' all those old-fash-
ioned wholesome restraints upon furious driving in our
thronged streets have been repealed, and the omnibusse~,
are put in commi~ion to cheapen pro\'i5ions by killing off
the inhabitants.
EXTP.AORDINARY SIGHTS. 113
by some ingenious contri\·ance, so that it re-
mained still and Jerel, notwithstanding the mo-
tion of the outside shell. Sliuing uoors were
opened and closeu, just as the current of air and
other circumstances were agreeable or disagree-
able. There, with a delightful prospect before
them, groups of travellers were seen crowding
to the winuow to enjoy the beautiful scenery.
From the piles of bales, boxes, trunks, &c. ob-
served in the back ground, beyond the passen-
gers, it was eviuent they were strangers from a
distant province.
l\Irs. Fox noticed that way-passengers were
continually alighting from the window, eren
burdened by baggage, \Yithout experiencing ap-
parent inconvenience, although the vehicle nev-
er stopped for any one to make an exit. 'Vhat
amazed her very much, was the fact that no one
seemed to suffer the least inconvenience from
leaping, oren from the highest balls, as \rith us
in stepping from a carriage, when under way.·
A difrerent kind of structure, therefore, a higher
degree of finish in the mechanical construction
of the locomotive apparatus, must be accorded
to the favored Saturnians.
Puzzling as it is to explain how or upon what
principle these hollow spheres are kept in motion,
10
114 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
I shall hazard the opinion that the true perpet-
ual motion, so long sought for here, has there
been discovered, and applied to the propulsion
of engines. Outside they are uniformly s111ooth.
and nothing appears, not even a screw head, to
lead to a knowledge of the arrangement of wheels
or pinions within.*
No style or magnitude of architecture known
to the ancients, will compare with the lofty edi-
fice3 on the face of Saturn. Out of thousands
of private dwellings, not one single house, with
the exception of out-houses, was less than a quar-
ter of a mile in height, all beautifully P.ropor-
tioned, and the best class standing within eme-
* Mr. Fox suggested that the mysterious power so ad-
vamageously applied by the ingenious Saturnians, might
be electro-magnetism; nor can he.be eliverted from the
notion that Dr. Page and Mr. DavenpJrt got their first
hint for ('Onstrnctin~ those queer models at the Mechanies'
Fair, by a stealthy peep at the manuscript of this book.
The doctor being a Salem man, born on the spot where
the witches were tried, it is possible, barely pos~ible, that
he obtained his knowledge in that way. As for Mr. Da-
venport, he is exculpated from all participation in the
matter. His model is enough to convince the most stupid
men in the universe, (I mean the Joint Stock Company
engaged in building a mammoth Electro-Magnetic loco-
motive for the Haerlem Rail·road) it was never copied;
it is every inch his own invention.
EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS. )}5
raid enclosures of surpassing richness. From
whatever point they were viewed, even at differ-
ent hours, when the reflected light might he 'up-
po~cd to modify, they alll'nys had a dazzling
metallic lustre, not unlike Lurni,l1cd gold when
held up to a blazing suu iu a :;ummer day.
'fhey are without transparent windows or
hinged doors; the necessity of the former was
nerer manifested by inclemency of the weather,
and with respect to the latter, a much prettier
plan is pursued there, of having them slide, like
those between communicating parlors. Chim-
neys were nel'er obserred, ll'hich led .l\Irs. Fox
to su~pect that, like the Grahamite~, the people
subsi~t wholly upon ,·egetable productions, nn-
coolied.* Most of them have verandahs towards
* Kever '.\·ere simpletons more ungenerously and libel-
lously treated, than the persecuted Grahamites. l\Iisrep-
resentation and glaring falsehoods have been in \·ogue
against them long enough. So far from living exclusive-
ly on vegetables, as wickedly promulgated, 1hey are the
most ravenous meat-eaters on the globe, always excepting
- , who requires a stream of i\Iadeira at the expense
of the Corporation, to work away dull care. "'by, that
persecuted saint,- that meek, that hea\·enly-mincle•l suf-
ferer in the cause of long life, whose innate mode>t)' so
seals his lips that" he ne1·ersaid a foolish word," the great
ifi\·enlor of the humbug himself, always dines on roast
beef when out of the way of his silly, moonshine followers.
116 EXTRAORD.INARY SIGHTS.
the streets, arranged in terraces, one above the
other, to the higbe~t story. T his gives a fine
effect, and might be imitated here, particularly
when fa1•ored with a southern aspect, to good
advantage.*
In all great thoroughfares of the cities, the
broadways, the doors were open, and 1\Irs. Fox
made very exact sketches of what she saw. Of
this, however, the particulars will be given in
the second volume, which is appropriated to the
consideration of practical agriculture, ornament-
al gardening, and the predominant fashions of
dress and furniture, in vogue with the Satur-
nians.
As a general rule, in the exact centre ofc1·ery
street, which were paved with blocks of wood,
like the specimen patch in New-York, on which
the mayor's children play, there is a raised plat-
form, resembling a bowling-alley, perhaps six
* Although the thought has been suggested, I have no
reason for believing that the galleried house between At-
kinson and Federal streets, in which the Berry Street Ran-
gers, a mighty band of ferocious fellows are supposed
to hold their midnight orgies, is an imitation of a Satur-
nian gentleman's house. T he Berry Street architectural
wonders, reflecting odoriferous honor upon the name of
the contriver, is entirely original, and among the curiosi-
ties of Boston.
EXTRAORDIXARY -SIGHTS. 117
hundred feet in width, o1·er wl1ich the locomo-
tive balls of the third order, such as are permit-
ted within the city, are forever rolling on in
monotonous grandeur. No other vehicles were
ever seen there by Mrs. Fox, although much
time was given to the investigation.
Neither external mechanical aid or living
power was any where applied on the outside,
which amounts to a confirmation of the opinion,
that the perpetual motion has certainly been
discovered there. All travelling in Saturn is
performed in this unique manner.
The streets were filled with multitudes, pass-
ing and repas,ing each other, as in our large
towns,-and the balls, teaming with those bent
on business, and those, for aught we know, on
fleeting pleasure, were shooting by each other
and through streets and lanes and the byways of
the country, as though conscious of their
strength. As far as any of the magnificent
avenues were examined, the balls were seen
going with different velocities, till lost in the
maze of perspective. All communications be-
tween cities and distant provinces is probably
maintained through their agency. Were a
spectator raised in a balloon eight thousabd feet
directly o1·er Boston, and in looking down should
IO•
118 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
discover spherical bodies, of twenty, thirty and
forty feet in diameter, rolling through the streets
by an invisible impulse, and should notice the
Salem turnpike, the road to Cambridge, and
other principal avenues leading to the town,
studded with those bodies, laden with passengers,
both entering and departing from the city,-he
would have something of a correct idea of the
mode of intercourse in the planet Saturn•
.Men were infinitely numerous there,-in all
respects made as we are made, but magnificent-
ly developed: they all averaged twenty-five feet
in height. Nothing is more astonishing than
man, as he shows himself in Saturn ;--truly, he
looks like the lord of the soil. Clothing is not
required to any burdensome extent. The only
fabric worn, is a kind of sparkling armor, of
the richest workmanship. The legs, arms and
body were enclosed, apparently for effect, not as
a necessary condition on account of the climate.
Great majesty is depicted in their counteuauces;
and the proportions of their limbs, the exact
symmetry oftheir figures, together with the grand
display of their comforts, industry, contentment
and happiness, raised the curiosity of l\Irs. Fox
to the •bighest degree of admiration.
l\Irs. Fox became satisfactorily convinced
EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS. )1!)
that this was the abode of a happy race, where
neither envy, guile, backbiting or slander had a
foothold.
The Saturnian cities are of prodigious mag-
nitude and surpassing magnificence, in every
respect. P!Jiladelphia, with all its internal
excellencies, in comparison with one of those
in a distant world, is but a mere moat by the
side of a mountain. Streets do not intersect
each other at right angles, but describe con-
centric circles,-one within the other ;-hence
the exterior one of all is truly prodigiously long.
From the centres of the nine metropolitan cities,
particularly noticed, where stands the strangest
public buildings ever devised, narrow pathways
intersect the streets.
l\Iore than two hours were devoted to a sur-
vey of the exterior of the citadel, if such is its
purpose, in city a, so marked in the lithographic
plans of the natural and artificial di1·isions of
Saturn. In the first place, its magnitude is
terrific, being on the same grand architectural
scale which distinguishes even private houses of
the common citizens. It was computed to be,
from the threshold of the front door, to the eves
-one half a mile.-Cupolas, spires, domes or
minarets are unknown, or, if they are, it is cer-
120 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
tain they are not fashionable. Its grand figure
is something between an octagon, a circle, a
cube and a circle,-therefore difficult to explain.•
On the top of the walls, (for it is without a
roof, like the towers of gothic churches,) singular
animals are chained down by massive rings.
They conducted as though the point of am-
bition was to get at each other, but the chains
were too short to allow of contact.
Some of those mural ornaments, if such was
the purpose in confining them at that giddy
height, differed in every possible respect from
the inferior animals of the moon. Their bodies
* The South Cove Hotel, now building opposite the
1,Vorcester rail-road depot, is more like that in the text,
that is, indescribable, than any other in America. 'Visely
the name of the architect has been kept out of sight,
having been forced by a pile, driven when the foundation
was laid, beyond the prying reach of vulgar posterity.
The rumor that the company by \\'hom it is erected have
taken out a patent right, is firmly contradicted. Neither
is it believed that the company intend to be entombed in
the court which the hotel surrounds. No proposition of
the kind was ever brought forward to be sanctioned by
the hawk-eye committee, nor by1\ir. *• • • *,who concocts,
pro bono pu'Qlico. 'Vhen the street in front of the hotel
is made a trifle narrower, the beauty of this structure,
apparently a great gloomy rat-trap, even worse than the
new granite court-house, will beproperly appreciated.
EXTRAOHDINARY SIGHTS. 121
were just three square, like a file, aud apparent-
ly as hard, by reason of formidable black scales.
These triangular frames 1·aried in length from
one to two hundred and thirty-seyen feet in
leugth, terminated by a head at eac.h extremity.
On the under side, the ridge of the back being
one angle, were hundreds of legs, after the man-
ner of centipedes, those in the middle being
much the longest, and each one expanded into a
broad palmated foot, analogous to a frog's.
As might be supposed, the centre of motion
was at the insertion of the central limbs. Bal-
anced on these, the body each way was occa-
sionally Yiolently raised into the air, l:eiJ down
at that point by the chain, while their awfully
constructed jaws gnashed together with horrific
force. Being without teeth, they had a compen-
satio~ in the copious secretion ofa bright yellow
venom, which was spirted from their yawning
mouths like lava from a volcano.
Another animal, belonging to a difl"erent
species, also triangular, and provided with two
heads, as was repeatedly noticed to be the
characteristic of all the Satnrnian genera, had,
beside wings, one solitary leg, projecting from
the middle of its abdomen. It possessed the
elastic property of a spiral spring. Leaping as
122 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
far as its ponderous chain would permit, the
whole weight of the body fell on the end of this
limo, which was thus forcibly compressed till the
superincumbent weight nearly touched the wall,
when a reaction took place-the leg elongating
to its utmost extent, 'lifting the uody venically
as long as the elastic property was in exercise,
but just before being wholly expended, another
leap followed. ·whether all this was the effect
of rage or an evidence of playfulness, could not
be determined.
De~pairing of picturing by a written descrip-
tion their appearance, as described by 1\Irs. Fox,
I must forego any further account of these non-
descripts, because they differ so singularly from
those familiar to us in the confined limits of
civilization, tlwt my ,·eracity might be called m
question were further details given of • their
organization.
I am fully aware of the scepticism that will be
expressed by the best informed people in the com-
munity, with regard to these revelations. 'Ve
ba,·e become accustomeu to a certain style of
animal mechanics, conducive to a certain circle
of motions, adapted to the physical well-being
ofeach species; hence, to surprise the reader by
deviations from the familiar standard of construe-
EXTRAORDINARY SIGIJTS. 123
tion, as he views each class, wou!J only excite
suspicion that good faith and honesty had
nothing to do with this memoir. 'Ve are not
prepared, in fact, for these swltlen surprisals;
the very nnture therefore of 1\Irs. Fox's inquiries,
because they are altogether in advance of the
age, will be slow in carrying conviction to the
minds of those who never think for themselves.
As before remarked, the building being with-
out a co~·ering, gave l\lrs. Fox an opportunity
of looking directly from above into its numerous
apartments. In some of them were tral·el-
ling balls, laid up in ordinary; in others, martial
trophies, coats of mail, regal jewels, &c. Al-
most an army of females were caged up in a
suit of delightful rooms. Adjoiuing them was
a royal saloon containing thirty-two acres on the
floor, profusely omamented with glittering stars
fixed to the walls, sparkling and blazing like a
series of noon-day suns. All the ladies had
heavy diadems upon their heads. Fifty, of sur-
passing dignity, in addition to crowns, had
golden serpents suspended from their ears and
elbows. Bracelets of burnished gold also be-
decked their arms and ankles, and boquets of
flowers vying with the iridescent glories of the
rainbow, confined by diamond clasps, were seen
124 EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS.
upon their shoulders. Neither shoes or stock-
ings, or indeed any dress covered their feet,
unless a profusion of chased ring;; on all their
toes, comes under the denomination of hosiery.
About their persons a flowing drapery, care-
lessly drawn on, yet extremely elegant from the
negligence with which it was worn, constituted
their sole covering. Their arms were bare to
the shoulders, and so were the legs to the knees.
Some were dancing, some playing on musical
instruments, and many more engaged in games
of chance. It was deeply exciting to 1\lt:s. Fox
to witness the feat of jumping the rope, one of
her school-girl pastimes, which seemed to be as
popular in Saturn as at a modern gymnasium.
No females on our globe bear the least sort of
proportion to them ;-not one of them being less
than twenty feet tall.
To clear the cord, one lady jumped so high
that 1\Irs. Fox feared all her bones would be
fractured on striking the floor. There is nothing,
however, very surprising in this stupendous ex-
ercise, with a rope equalling a moderate cable :
every thing is in that proportion in Saturn.
An instrument on which one of the inmates
of this gilded room played twice in one afternoon,
while 1\Irs. Fox was gazing in upon the coterie,
was fashioned somewhat like a tamborine, yet
EXTRAORDINARY SIGHTS. 125
it was without a parchment head. Across the
hoop were stretched a !ot of stiff parallel, inelas-
tic bars, one inch in diameter, four inches apart,
or thereabout. On those were mJ'!tallic balls,
perforated through their centres, and strung on
the rods, so as to slide freely either way.
From some unaccountable circumstance which
l\Irs. Fox would never reveal, I have totally failed
in c1·cry attempt to elicit any thing further on
this subject of Saturn. Abruptly, however, as
the derelopments have been brought to a close,
the candid inquirer after truth, the student of
nature and the philosopher, will appreciate the
value of these discoveries, and estimate the tran-
scendant advantages accruing to science from
the right application of Animal Magnetism in
the hands of the wise and learned. It is my
private opinion, that l\lrs. Fox was shocked by
a very terrible discovery in one of the citadel
saloons, and rather than recall the subject, appa-
rently so dreadfully disagreeable, she chooses to
remain perfectly silent. The public may rest
assured that whenever she renews the narrative,
if not too voluminous for publication, the relation
shall appear at a future day.~
* By consulting those excellent authorities, CoL Stone's
Letter, Durant's Memoir of Silk-Worms, Poyen's History
ll
CHAPTER X.
UNTHOUGHT OF 1\UTTERS.
BY an infinitude of trigonometrical calcula-
tions, Jupiter, the mammoth of the heavens,
reputed to be 89,170 English miles in diameter,
important errors have been detected, of conse-
quence to science. Now his distance from the
earth is also declared to be 490 millions of miles,
and has a revolution on his own axis, making a
day and a night, in precisely nine hours and fifty-
six minutes. These memoranda will prepare the
reader for duly estimating the value of the follow-
ing astounding discoveries.
of Animal Magnetism in New-England, and Professor
'Vayland on the Moral Laws of Accumulation, some in-
sight may be gained into the cause of the freaks and fan-
tasies of somnambulists. Very satisfactory reasonings
might be colleeted from the pages of the Family i\Iagazine
for a thousand strange matters. The Massachusetts R-
is another, and the Annuals of Education is another,
and the publications ofall candid abolitionists.
UNTHOUGI!T OF MATTERS. 127
To Animal l\Iagneti::m, the noblest and last
discovered of the liberal sciences, is intellectual
man indebted for all that he knows with certain-
ty of other worlds. Without the provision of a
somnambule, to this hour, doubt and obscurity
would have enveloped the mechanism ofthe solar
system. Notwithstanding the learned research-
es of La Place, that which has called forth the
wonder and admiration of unnumbered genera-
tions, from the creation of Adam, the structure,
order and internal condition of the planetary
system, is now brought down into particulars, and
is destined to become an ordin11ry parlor topic,
divested of all the romance and false coloring
which ignorance invariably attaches to what is
not comprehended.
How singular and thrilling must have been
the inward sensations of that favored of the hu-
man race, ;\Irs. Fox, in realizing the fact that of
all nations all!! tongues under hea,·en, she alone
is the only individual who has been indulged
with the solitary, yet ennobling satisfaction of
looking through all space, where,·er the will was
directed, and yet li1·es to be conscious of it all;
to relate minutire, and to be grateful for the high
distinction of being the choserr vessel for promul-
gating these revelations, which hare been made
128 UNTHOUGHT OF JI!ATTERS.
to her ecstatic vi~ion. She would be wanting in
honest ,pride, were she insensible of the glory
that will henceforward be attached to her name
in all future annals, in being the humble instru-
ment of instructing mankind in the sublime study
of the universe. Nor does the weight of respon-
sibility in permitting me to record these incalcu-
lably important discoveries, operate otherwise
than to humble her to the dust in view of all that
she has seen.
Jupiter is an unfinished planet; it is at this
moment in a process of evolution, to become ul-
timately the fit .residence of animated beings,
none having yet been developed there. With
the same scrupulous exactness of observation
which has characterized alll\Irs. Fox's observa-
tion~, she conceives that the nucleus of Jupiter
is one tremendous central fire, em·eloped by a
sphere of water, two thousand, three hundred
and eleven miles in thickness. Volcanic erup-
tions are frequently taking place and bursting
through a dense crust intervening between the
molten mass within, and the water without.
This crust she determined, by a regularly devised
scale of admeasurement, to be one thousand,
nine hundred and two feet in thickness. She
witnessed repeated outbreakings through this
UNTHOUGHT OF MATTERS. 1;!!)
shell, as though a mighty, resistless internal force
hove onward till it burst through, and the rent
edges being raised above the water, there re·
mained like the ragged edges of a crater, high
and dry above the roaring ocean. From the
open mouth thus formed, flame, smoke, ignited
rocks, themselves mighty and terrific in dimen-
sions, were whirled above the surging billows,
and when they fell, the waters hissed and boiled
and foamed in awful violence. Ejected Ja,•as
have accumulated in spots and adhered to the
steep sides of these nucleii of burning mountains,
increasing the lateral diameter and strengthening
the walls of the volcanic tube leading into the
profound abyss below, till the el~ments of con-
tinents begin to show themselres. She doubts
not that these disruptions haye been gradually
going on under the sure influence of certain
physical laws, perhaps for millions of years, and
millions more may be required to separate the
water into distinct seas. On a central fire, then,
does the whole chain of physical revolutions de-
pend for raising Jupiter to the condition of other
sections of the solar system. These grand dis-
plays have for their object to prepare it for the
occupancy of organized beings, destined in the
great plan of creative wisdom, to roam over its
11'*
130 UNTHOUGHT OF MATTERS.
widely extended surface and bask in its future
sunshine of blissful prosperity.
Those meridian belts on its outer surface, by
which it is designated from the fixed stars, are
the incipient foundations of mountain ranges,
which will ultimately become much more strong-
ly marked, and therefore be classed among the
most striking points of reference in astronomical.
calculations.
· \Vhen I assert that animals have not yet been
created in Jupiter, I speak expressly of air-
breathing animals, the latest always in the order
of equivocal generation : in the encircling ocean
there, monsters were noticed by l\1rs. Fox, of
gigantic proportions and unique construction.
They unquestionably hold the same relationship
to the changing planet that the extinct sauri-
ans did, that once held the entire control over
our earth, before the higher and more compli-
cated orders came into existence. If it is ques-
tioned, what I now assert, that ages and ages of
an indefinite duration, before mau, aquatic mon-
sters held possession of this earth, I beseech
those who would throw obstacles in the way, or
obscure the path of the geologist, to remember
that the skeletons of those antideluvians, those
original proprietors of this fair globe, are in
UNTHOUGHT OF MATTERS. 131
€\'ery museum of distinction in Europe and
America.
These gigantic lizards were from fifty to one
hundred feet in length ; the plesiosaurus and
many others, now denominated fossil remains,
tell their own story. They once lived, but when, •
no science can determine. Their spedes too
was propagated- for more than one specimen
has been recovered. As they are detected in
€very climate and in all regions, throughout the
continents and islands, it proves how universn.Ily
they were dispersed over the whole.
'Ve have a fair and unquestionable history of
six thousands years, the l\Iosaic chronology-a
period in which man has exercised his high
prerogative of being the lord of creation ; yet in
all that time, no animal bearing the least resem-
blance to the frames of these excavated remains,
has any where been discovered ; their utter ex-
tinction, therefore, is firmly established. Once
they lived-but in what age 1 They were all
blotted from existence, but who can decide the
epoch?
CHAPTER XL
A JAUNT TO THE SUN.
FRo~I immemorial time, [men of all ages and
in all countries where the human intellect has de-
veloped its energies,]-speculations have been
advanced on the probable construction and real
office of the sun, on that splendid system of
worlds by which it is surrounded, without gain-
ing that certain knowledge which can alone be
satisfactory. It shines as it did on the eventful
morning of its creation, six thousand years ago,
and yet philosophers know no more about its
organization than when Joshua commanded it to
stand still.
True, his diameter in geographical miles has
been determined to be 883,000, and that twenty-
five days, fourteen hours and eight minutes are
occupied in turning once round on his axis; but
what is there in all this that is at all remarkable 1
A JAUNT TO THE SUN. ) 33
We are a people delighting in particulars; we
cannot rest with an imperfect disclowre, or
tolerate a half-told tale. Being myselfunder the
urging influence of this national trait, I be-
sought l\lrs. Fox to lend her aid once more, to
clear up a mystery in the heavens, and it affords
me unfeigned pleasure to declare, that in every
instance, though often fatigued and prostrated
through the shocks which her extreme sensibili-
ty received by the clear views she had of unsus-
pected sights, in this anJ other worlds, she
seemed always in readiness to make her trans-
cendant gift of cloirroyancy wbservient to the
highest purposes ofcultivated science.
At the conclusion of so many experiments, it
required considerable preparation to reconnoitre
the central point from whence a series of worlds
got their impetus, and whose momentum is regu-
lated by its own undivulged agency. When
suitable arrangements had been completed, I
sat by the side of 1\Irs. Fox, with a resolution of
recording whatever she might reveal, beiug
assured, from constant watchfulness over l1er,
that imagination never swayed her judgment,
nor had she any moti1·e for making false repre·
sentations. Implicit confidence may be placed
in every assertion emanati.ng from her, and I
134 A J AUNT T O THE SUN.
hold myself responsible to the world at large for
the fidelity with which this record of her great
discoveries has been executed.
On arriving in spirit* within nine hundred
and seventy-five miles of the main body of the
great Sol himself, so judged for reasons 1\Irs.
Fox did not at the moment stop to explain, she
found it nearly impossible to breathe. After re-
peated attempts to pass through an invisible
medium conjectured to be the atmosphere of
the sun, her lungs were clogged and choked
so badly, that she was heartily rejoiced to wend
her way back again with all convenient despatch.
·we talked orer this unlooked-for hindrance, nor
did we, or those with whom we conversed, com-
prehend how that the functions of the body
should be operated upon by the chemical com-
position of the atmosphere of\ distant globe, in
the absence of the soul. '·
Now, I lay it down as a fundamental position,
that the spiritual part of our being, the rational,
• I am continually falling into the expressions of the
Providence people, who always speak of their travelling
somnambulists as having departed in spirit- the body
being dead to sensations till its return. Now, Mrs. Fox
was frequently in doubt whether her power of vision ex-
tended to all distances, or whether her soul was verily
moving by an act of volition.
A JAUST TO TilE SUN. 13.3
thinking, incorporeal soul, always leaves the
body in these clairvoyant expeditions, and yet
1\Irs. Fox maintains the contrary opinion, by
assuring me that the rays of light from luminous
objects, however distant, traverse to the eye;
so that it is merely an elongation of the axis of
vision, and not, as I suppose, a migration of the
soul. But, waving all theories, it is sufficient to
assure the reader that no less th;n three several
trials were made before she passed through the
non-breathing space, and reached the solid
substance of the fountain oflight.*
At my suggestion, she suspended herself mid-
air, and allowed the sun to roll over on his
diurnal route, that she might the more advanta-
geously inspect the surface as it passed onward
• A wonderful coincidence this,-with l\Iiss Brackett's
account ofher voyage to the movn. The difficl!-lty of in-
flating the lung, came very near dri1·ing her to the city
of Providence, although ample preparations had been
made for a grand journal. Like 1\lrs. Fox, she ultimately
succeeded, anclthe po.rticulars have been often relo.ted by
herself to those stupid asses who could alford leisure to
hear the recital. But this was nothing to being sea-sick
on a voyage to Charleston, South Carolina. Certificates
to prove that she actually vomited on the parlor carpet,
may be seen in the next edition of Col. Stone's history of
Animal Magnetism.
136 A JAUNT TO THE SUN.
under her feet. Still, she averred that she had
not left Roston, but was in personre, in her own
quiet parlor. Here the regular investigation
commenced.
The sun,-the ever-shining sun, the life-
giving, invigorating luminary of a beautiful
combination of inhabited and partially develop-
ed spheres, is made up, apparently, of concentric
lumina of transparent matter, like the crystalline
lens of the eye. These coats are nine thousand
miles in thickness, the innermost one embracing
a ball of luminous substance intensely dazzling,
defying all description, and equalling in bulk four
globes the size of our earth. Each one of these
strata possesses a highly reflecting as well as
refracting property. Outside, or rather on the
sun's surface, there is a deep rich soil, as fine as
levigated gold dust, or rather an impalpable
powder, having a specific gravity of inconceiva-
ble weight. It is so very solid that the smallest
particle which could possibly be collected on the
extreme point of a fine needle, would weigh
about four tons. Thus, though perfectly a dust,
the admirable contrivance of its having great
ponderosity, always keeps the soil from being
blown away, a circumstance of immense im-
portance to the Solarians, should it by accident
A JAUNT TO THE SUN. 137
ever occur. Now this impalpable soil is equally
as transparent as the main body of the planet.
How splendidly glorious is all this! 1\Iatchless,
aye, overwhelming are these magnificent dis-
plays in the far-spread universe.
But with this unique provision for reflecting
and refracting light, the sun does not originate
a single ray. Light is the offspring of infinite
Power, whose presence cannot be witnessed by
man, and live ;-whose laboratory is in the
secret labyrinths of a changeless eternity ;-but
we are permitted to philosophize on the effects,
nay, causes and effects, without knowing
whether we are right or wrong in those abstract
investigations, which are of no utility, even \Yere
they made plain to a child.
" How glorious is the sun," might all its
trillion of happy intelligences sing in elevated
chorus:! Surely, it is the Eldorado of the poet's
imagination. It is the region where the soul of
him who was designed to inhabit it, pours out
the full splendor of its innate power.
But I will restrain myself from farther ex-
pressions of delight in l\Irs. Fox's glowing ac-
count of the blissful surface of the sun, to detail
the circumstances connected with its illumina-
ting properties.
12
138 A JAUNT TO TilE SUN.
At an indeterminate distance from the body
of the sun, far beyond the non-breathing space,
there is a sp~ere of luminous vapor, something
like a fog in a bright sunshine. Thus the sun
itself is balanced in the centre of a hollow
ball of phosphorescent haze. What this is we
never can know, for we hare no means of con-
ducting a chemical analysis. This is light itself,
concentrated; and to make that quantity which
will enable our imperfect optics to perceire, it
must be variously diluted by passing through
millions of miles, through variously composed
atmospheres, and lastly become altered by the
finely organized retina with which a benevolent
Creator has condescended to bless us.
The action of the nucleus of the sun, on this
distant cloud of light, is among the most extraor-
dinary phenomena in the whole range of nature.
A sort of boiling commotion takes place at some
point of this condensed light, which keeps in-
creasing till it bursts with the fury of an ocean
wave against an iron-bound coast, dashing and
rending the whole mass for millions of miles in
extent, in the twinkling of an eye, accompanied,
it is presumable, by awful detonations, heavier
than any artillery in the earth's aerial domains.
Then another disruption will follow in quick
A JAUNT TO TilE SUN· 13!)
succession, and another, and another ;-some
of these rents exceeded four hundred millions of
miles in length by one hundred thousand in
breadth. The vacuum thus instantly formed by
the convulsive action, leaves a long black cavity,
which, seen from this earth, is called a black spot
on the sun. \Vhen there is an universal activity
going on in the way of disruption, a chain or a
series of black belts seem to pass over the sun's
face, obscuring his fructifyiug influence, felt
here in the unproductircness of the season, and
in the cold, hazy atmoophere, which apparently
chills the air, and stints regetation as it rises
from the mother earth.
\Yhatever the composition of the sphere of
ligl1t may be, I lmow not; but after its chaotic
atoms have been acted upon by the central
diamond of the sun, rays shoot out from the mass,
and in the process of adjustment from confusion
to order, the rupture takes place and a percepti-
ble light is e1•oh·ed, such as illuminates an object
to be recognised by the eye. When light, there-
fore, once assumes the form of pencils of rays,
the highly reflecting property of the whole body
of the sun throws it with an impelling force
that drives it through an indefinite distance;-
perhaps they would move in a right line forever
}40 A JAUNT 'fO TilE SUN.
and ever, were they not at any time intercepted
'by the interposition of opaque bodies !loating
through the dark empire of eternity. This suf- •
ficiently explains the whole mutter of the origin
of light. I now intend to confine myself to 1\Irs.
Fox's lucid description of the sun as a habitable
residence.
1t has before been remarked that the soil was
as perfectly transparent as the interior of its body,
out of which grows spontaneously every variety
of elegant tree and flower the most active imagin-
ation can conceive of, spreading, it is presumed,
a fragrance as ex!Jilerating and delightful through
the air, as the olfactory organs of the inhabitants
can bear. Fruits of all hues, from the golden
yellowness of the orange, to the purple, scarlet
and red, the riolet and purple, hang in luxuriant
profusion from every twig and bough; a uew crop
springing into maturity the instant a stem is
disencumbered of its weight. All that could in-
vite the appetite or satisfy the cravings of a
gourmand, of a vegetable nature, are crowding
into view wherever the observer turns.
A plant apparently peculiar to the sun, as it
was no where seen in the other planets, yielded
an immense crop of small quadrupeds, resembling
pigs, which no sooner reached the full period of
A JAU:\T TO THE SUN. 141
maturity, roasted on the stem,-and if not pluck-
ed, fell to the ground in the course of ei~ht
hours, and were succeeded by another set, which
passed through the same singular changes. :\Irs.
Fox occasionally saw parties dining in groves,
whose table was supplied directly from the tree
with this animo-vegetable diet. These vegeta-
ble pigs were never taken before ripe; those in
the growing state seemed lively, tied as they
were at the extremity of a twig, a hundred feet
high, working their little feet and sweeping in-
sects with their slender whip-lash tails in frolic-
some playfulness.
Another tall, bushy tree, not unlike an oak,
bore the true Turkey sheep,-but they were
necessarily dressed for the table, though no kind
of cooking was required. It appeared that by
taking off the hide, the action of the common
air imparted to the meat the sapid quality re-
quired, to be relished. Poultry, much larger
than any species sold in our markets, together
with ducks, snipes, woodcocks, pigeons, &c.
are all produced on trees, and drop off, the mo-
ment they are eatabiP.. Thus I might particu-
larize an infinitude of delicacies, of an animal
character, produced in this extraordinary man-
ner, showing, incontestibly that they were ex-
12*
142 A JAUNT TO THE SUN.
pressly designed for the sustenance of solarian
man.
'Vith the exception of these vegeto-animated
productions, no animals e.xist in the sun. In-
telligent beings, and those of surpassing come-
liness, are the exclusive possessors of that divine
region. The population is prodigiously numer-
ous, leading Mrs. Fox to the opinion that death
has no victims there. This probably arose from
the consideration of the magnitude of the Sun,
and the ample provision made for sustammg
multitudes upon multillldes, beyond all human
computation.
Neither dwellings or temples marred the res-
plendent beauty of this angelic residence of pu-
rified man. Nothing but the clear sky above
canopies the dwellers of that unsurpassed world,
who offer up their regular adorations at specific
periods, on magnificent altars fabricated out of
precious stones. Some of those are equal to the
Egyptian pyramids in perpendicular altitude,
though far exceeding them at the base. They
present much the same appearance that the
'Vhite Mountains would, were the principal ele-
vations hewn into gigantic cones ; the sides are
so gradually inclined that people could ascend
and descend with perfect ease.
A JAUNT TO THE SUN. 1i3
Around and on the angles of those resplendent
points of worship, millions were often seen kneel-
ing ; all facing the apex, on which st~od the sup-
posed pontifex maximns, with his extended hands
raised in the attitude of blessing the immense
assembly below. No symptom of idolatry was
detected, if the expression of the face, the up-
raised eye, the spontaneous genuflexions of the
whole group at once, did not betray it. No
works of art were presented on any part of the
grand empire of the Sun, with the exception of
these ihimitable altars, which, after all, may
have been provided in the beginning of time, by
the same hand which fashioned all things.
Neither clouds, rain, hail, snow nor sleet is
shown in the sun; even dews are not required
to nourish the plants, for they draw from the clear
fountain in which they keep root, all the ele-
ments oftheir natures without sunshine or moon-
light: independently ofall those ordinary sources
of vitality, a mild light, emanating from no recog-
nized point, is universally diffused, nor does it
ever vary in strength or intensity; it is forever the
same. The day is as eternal as all the other phys-
ical properties of the sun; for no night spreads a
sombre darkness over the gilded landscape. Both
the temperature of the climate and the loveliness
144 A JAUNT TO THE SUN.
of nature in all her millions of multiplied forms,
contributes to make man there, what he should
be here...!..pljre in heart, and elevated in character.
One government stretches its jurisdiction over
the entire sun; and by analogy, therefore, it is
reasonable to suppose that one language is uni-
versally spoken. 1\Ionarchy has no foothold in
that great central world; a democracy therefore
is the probable form. But the charm of the sys-
tem arises from an exhibition of the fact, that
one person is precisely as good as another, and
to all intents and purposes just as capable of
wielding the government as another. All are on
the footing of equality; every individual knows
his duty and is disposed to do it, by conforming
to the requisitions of society, the civil and the
moral law. Nor has one person a higher intel-
lectual development than another. One is a
complete pattern-card of the whole. Peace, good
will, honesty, sobriety, and ardent, elevated af-
fections characterize the Solarians, from one
grand division of its geographical limits to anoth-
er, however remote. There are no sterile re-
gions, no waste ground; neither is there an im-
perfect or an imbecile intellect to be found. In
a word, the whole condition of the mind, as there
exhibited, shows its preparation for heaven. As
A JAUNT TO THE SUN. 145
far as l\Irs. Fox could discover, she forms the
idea that the sun is in the or<ler of heavenly res-
idences, where the soul i~ refined, and the gross-
ness of our nature so painfully shown on earth,
has no sustenance there."
* Because there is a plenty of spare room on this page,
the author had a great mind to introduce a magnificent
marginal note,by way of economisingspace. This sort of
management shows tact in the writer, and a strict regard
to the prevailing, canting, whining hypo('risy of the day,
that
uA stitch in time,
Saves nine."
In other words, were it expressly declared in this place,
that I entertain a most sonreign contempt for those little
men in great shoes, who are constantly endeavoring to
impress the world, that is the gaping admirers of goslin
genius, that they have nothing but the present and ever-
lasting good of their fellow mortals at heart, it would be
understood why I have made use of expressions apparent-
ly wanting in reverence. The shameful license of dema-
gogues, pedagogues and world-101·ing priests, who cloak
their hypocritical ambition under th; solemnities of devo-
tional language, as,-" If Ilcarcn 1cills "-" Proridence
permitting"-" The good of ~fOUr soul"-" C/tarity ; dear
charily"-" 'IYtere is nothing abidi11g here but my principles
<f·c." is now common 01·er the whole country, and b\· cop-
ying this perverse style, ;.inful as it is inappropriate, on
trifling occasions,only shows that the yulgarity of the age,
like India Ruhber Stock, has been widely diffused.
CHAPTER XII.
LOCAL LEARNING.
THE author about ready to return to his home in the
country.-His Jaw-suit brought to a close.-Mrs. Fox grat-
ifies him with an evening promenade.-She attends a lec-
ture at Amory Hall.-Seesnobody there butlank, toothless,
husband-hunting olu maids.-Sees a loafof Graham breau
for the first time.-By request, goes to a Free Inquiry
Meeting in Summer Street.-Saw a man personifying the
deviL-Felt a desire to take all the children found there,
home, where they would have better examples.-J\irs. Fox
makes judicious and sensible remarks on Sin.-Speaks
decidedly well about snatching somcthing.-Steps into the
State Street Banks.-Sees a plenty of money there.-Says
much to restore public confidence in the soundnessof those
institutions.-Intimates that the Directors, generally, are
in hot water.-An uncomfortable condition.-Bad enough
to be in cold.-Visits the Lcgislaturc.-Speaks of a for-
mer trip to Albany.-Criticisms on New Yorkbrokers.-
Visit to Dr. \Villiams, the celebrated foreign occulist.-
The author stops short for want of paper, but veryhand-
somely invites the reader to look into a forth-coming vol-
ume.
THE law businetis upon which I had been long
detained in Boston, having been brought to a
l.OO:::AL LEARNING. 147
clo~e, l\Irs. Fox, although actually weary of
sight-seeing, begged that her clairvoyance might
be put in requisition again, if it could afford me
any further gratification, before leaving the city.
Considering that this, perhaps, might be the last
opportunity in the course of my professional life,
for experimenting in Animal :\Ingnetism, her
indulgence was acknoiYledged, and after the
usual manipulations, ala Brackrt, in presence
of 1\Ir. Fox, his daughters, a rererend gentle-
man from Pawtuxet, and a medical man who is
distingui>hing himself at X ashua for his success
in putting factory girls to sleep in their looms,-
a new ord~r of inquiries were instit11ted.
When fairly magnetized, I put myself in me~g­
netic communication with her;-'' And "l'JW
l\Iadam, we will wander Ol'er the city this el'en
ing and ascertain what so many a.;;semblies are
about in the principal Halls; for I noticed on the
way to Chesnut Street, that the sidewalks were
thronged with people, who were branching off
towards Amory Hall, the Artist's Gallery, and
a famous banking institution in State Street."
Our first call was at Amory Hall, a beautiful
apartment in the occupancy of various associa-
tions. I suppose it is hardly neces>ary to ap-
prise the reader again, that neither of us left
148 LOCAL LEARNING.
l\frs. Fox's parlor, although her feet were in
motion, as though we were actually promenad-
ing. Dogs sometimes are doubtless in a similar
somnambulic condition, as they pant, paw and
bark in their sleep precisely as they do in the
chase.
When l\Irs. Fox arrived at the east end of
·west Street, she he~itated a moment, loolied up,
as though searching for a sign, and after a little
reflection, said "There must be great doings
over head." '' 'Veil, madam," said the Nashua
Joctor, "here is a bill on the Commonwealth
Bank, for paying the entrance fee." Fortunate-
ly, not being in communication with her, she
did not hear what he said, and of this I was
particularly glad, knowing how mucl1 she would
have considered herself insulted. Only the day
before, in a shopping excursion, she vainly at-
tempted to purchase a spool of thread the whole
length of 'Vashington Street, as no one would
take a single bill in her wallet, which happened
to be of the Commonwealth, American, Kilby,
Fulton, Franklin, Hancock and some other
equally abused Banks.*
* It was the President of a Boston Bank, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, an
era in history, considering the literary character of the
LOCAL LEAR~ING 149
She expressed her surprise at the crowd of fe-
males who were urging their way up stairs ; " ten
women to one man." Pretty soon, l\Irs. Fox
considered herself comfortably seated on a settee
exactly before a short, square-built man, who had
possession of the desk, who raved like one pos-
sessed of seven evil spirits. She was at first
alarmed; but, onlooking about the room, she saw
such a multitude of her own sex, that her fears
subsided, being certain that if they could remain
with an unchaineu maniac, with impunity, she
certainly could-invisible to all but herself.
l\Irs. Fox watched the ranting speaker with
marked attention, to eliscorer, by his wild contor-
tions, if possible, what his object was; for artic-
ulative language, howe1·er boisterous, ga1·e lno
sound to her quiescent ears, unless she was put
in magnetic communication.t
age, who ornamemed his house with a Porto,.ico, in front,
and a Pi::arro in the rear. For further particulars, how
he could read,-how he could write, and how he was
made a fool of by unprincipled scoundrel~, for which,
however, he was not morally guilty, consult the Jegislati1·e
committee on Banks. So much for the literary emporium
in 1838!
t Only a nry few, even when put in magnetic com-
munication, seem to understand the advantages acrruir.g
.13
150 LOCAL LEARNING.
After watching the violent, shoulder-dislo-
cating, sesawings of the person whom she verily
began to imagine had just ,escaped from a mad-
house, and wondering who he could be, and
what he was saying to keep so many lank, pale-
faced, toothless old maids fast in the seats three
hours at a sitting, with an air of exultation, his
light grey eyes protruding like sprouts on a
chenango potato, the centre of attraction, the
man in the pulpit finally held up a loaf of bread,
which was whirled orer and over, that all its
surfaces might be seen, with as much activity as
a juggler would play with a tumerous ball. With
a fixerl look of earnestness, a terribleness which
nothing but a portrait ofhis owu face can express,
the broad top of the loaf was turned to the audi-
ence, with an assurance of manner which seemed
to say, "Here is the staffoflife; here is longevi-
ty; here are concentrated the laws of vitality ;
here is anti·indigestion ; anti-all things ; the el-
ements of famit~e in the shape of a loaf,'' and
from it. Perhaps the scientific corps of the exploring ex-
pedition might throw some light on this subject, having
been frequently magnetized by the Secretary of the Navy.
It is now generally admitted that Governor Dickinson is
an old woman in disguise,possessing the electrical proper-
ties ofthe gymnotus family of eeb. In the spring he ~I'll!
have liberty to resume the petticoat again, in New-Jersey.
LOCAL LEARNI:-<G. 151
she read the stamped letters on the branny up-
per crust, as the clear gas-light fell npon it,
"GRAIIA~I.-Admittance four-pence !"
1\Irs. Fox, on retiring from the hall, expressed
her pointed disgust at the exhibition. She did
not recognize a lady in the group. Being near
Summer Street, I besought her to step into a
Gallery close by. She had no sooner entered
than she recoilea :it the sight ofthose whom she
saw there. Old men, whose white hairs were
the evidence of their proximity to the grave;
women, who might be respectable, if they would
flee from the pollution that is tainting them in
the society of God-defying sinners, who go there
to de,·ise new modes of sowing the fruitful seeds
of moral and physical corruption ; and little chil-
dren, training up for refined misery here, and,
l\Irs. Fox fears, for eternity, were gathered round
a large, frosty-headed individual in a blue cloak,
who presented to his deluded follo1vers a some-
what favorable specimen of human physiognomy;
but alas! this wretched imbecile looked but on
a mask, which concealed from all eyes except
those of l\Irs. Fox, the hideous 1·isage of the
prince of darkness. Behind him, against the
wall hung several portraits of his infernal majes-
ty's ministers, disguised, however, by being Ia-
152 LOCAl. LEARNING.
belled on the forehead "Reason, Genius of Phi-
losophy." Tlwmas Paine, Frances TVright Du-
rismont <S· Co. This assembly were making
preparations to celebrate the birth-day of that
vile debauchee, that infamous wretch, that libel
on virtue, Paine. · l\Irs. Fox repented of ever
having seen the congregation of corruptionists,
, whose daily existence is prolonged through the
sparing mercies of that benevolent, happiness-
dispensing God, whom they meet together to
curse. "But, 0! the dreadful termination of
such a life of imprecation," said l\Irs. Fox. "I
felt os though I could not refrain from snatching
those innocent children, let into that rented hell
for gradual initiation into vice, as I would have
saved a casket ofprecious jewels from a burning."
These were the last words of l\Irs. Fox con-
cerning Free Inquirers.
The evening was advancing, and instead ofbe-
ing requested to return to either place in which
she had been making clairvoyant investigations,
we unanimously besought her to visit the cash-
ier's room of certain· banking offices in State
Street. She was interested in several of them,
as an owner of stock, and the condition of their
vaults was worth attending to.
More than two hours sped their way over the
LOCAL LEAR:\11\'G. 153
clock-dial before Mrs. Fox would answer a ques-
tion. Her heart beat prodigiously fast, and the
perspiration trickled down her fair forehead copi-
ously. '"Yell, husband," said she,'' I am per-
fectly satisfied of the soundness of our Boston
Banks. \Yhy they hare double the specie in
the vaults that it is supposed they possess ; the
adroit managers of these important institutions
are laying a deep and firm foundntion for a
banking stability, that can never be affected
again by any concurrence of adrerse circum-
stances, let the General Government exert itself
as it may tO crush our merchants. But I must
confess that I was surprised at the rast amount
of notes on hand which cannot be paid. Some
of the directors are the debtors too; and I saw
them casting interest upon paper, the principal of
which they ne1·er calculate to liquidate. There
will be sad o1·ertnrning in property the present
year. l\Iany who keep their conches will keep
them at the expense of the widow and the or-
phan's tears; but their notes will never be paid-
not because they are unable to do it, but because
it is a species of fraud that society winks at, but
dares not punish."
On the following morning, before the mag-
nectic fluid infused into her system the prece-
154 LOCAL I.ERANING.
ding evening, became wholly inoperative, she
strolled in spirit into the house of representatives,
where there was the external promise, apparent-
ly, of rational entertainment. To her amaze-
ment, however, a very few only, of the hundreds
who were seated on the comfortable green cush-
ions provided by the sergeant at arms, seemed
to be impressed with the responsibilities devolv-
ing upon them in their legislative capacity.
More than two thirds of the members were read-
ing newspapers, pamphlets or letters, seemingly
regardless of the character of the business before
them. A portion of the remainder were con-
stantly lounging from one place to another, to
the annoyance, in most instances, of those upon
whom they called ;-and the last half of the un-
appropriated third, were constantly on the qui
vive to get a chance to rise and say "l\Ir.
Speaker,"-which is about all that one half of
the speeches amount to in the course of a ses-
sion.
While watching the modus operandi of par-
limentary proceedings, which were singularly
new to her, she noticed that two or three gentle-
men contrived to speak on every suhject, whether
they knew any thing about the matter or not.
One everlasting clatter of the tongue seem to
LOCAL LEARNING. 155
characterize them in a special manner from all
the others. They are those who '' dm·ken coun-
cil by words, without knowledge." They were
evidently quite exhc.usteuby suchlunceasing pul-
monary efforts, and yet they ne,·er allowed an
opportunity to escape of having the last \vord.
l\Irs. F.>x felt an inward conviction that those
everlasting talkers had :no influence, whatever;
and that the interests of the Commonwealth
were positively neglected while these gabbling
fungi are permitted to prate fore,·cr about
nothing. She saw that the house was perfectly
indifferent to their perpetual speeches. The
speaker appeared so utterly spirit broken in
being compelled to witness many horrible mur-
ders of the king's English, as she has been in-
formed are committed without the fear of con-
sequences to reputation, twenty times a day,
that she had no desire to hear what was repre-
sented as being perfectly nauseating, by those
who are the most competent judges.
l\Irs. Fox feels assured, from a personal exami-
nation, that there is considerable room for im-
provement in the mode of managing t!.:lings at
the State House. For example, in the Origon
territory, more ligld is wanted ; and in Texn~,
more understanding. Speaking trumpets should
155 LOCAL LEARNING.
be procured at the expense of the treasury or
* * * * * Esq. be seated on the gallery railing,
by order of the committee on Insurance, to re-
echo the lucid sentiments and to transmit by
reflection, the ~oruscations of wit which now
blazen anti die in these lateral elevated appen-
dages of Massachusetts legislation.
Unknown to her friends, having never di-
vulged the fact before, she informed me that
she had also inspected the legislature of New
York, at Albany. There were more demi-
members outside, than in,-with their pockets
stuffed with multifarious projects for benefiting
the people. llut on reading some of them, for
no envelope was proof against clairvoyance, she
was ready to exclaim in the governor's ear-
" The people have all patriots grown,
They talk of public good and mean their own."
Brokers, principally from New York, were
extremely numerous about the Capitol. When-
ever one of them could nab a member by the
button, he was sure to exhibit very cogent rea-
sons for being listened to awhile. 'Vhether
certificates of stock were offered below par, or
a plan by which the representative could escape
the responsibilities which the law held, in ter-
LOCAL LEARNING. 1S7
rorem over the head of a manager of a mis-
managed monied institution, was not clearly
ascertained. Both occasionally gave evident
indications of being in the utmost perplexity.
She observed that the whole assembly were
taking the Matchless Sanative, supposed to be
an infalible remedy for all political disorders in
the State.
She als?. made a survey of the operating room
of a very ·celebrated foreign occulist, who suc-
eeeded in opening the eyes of the great poten-
tates of Europe. Louis Philip is entirely indebted
to him for that distinctness of vision with which
he perceives the designs of those oeposed to the
aggrandizement of his royal household. Know-
ing something of this gentleman's wide-spread-
ing philanthropy in the city of Boston, it was ex-
tremely pleasant to discover that his "o1m pur-
chased" house in Kew York was the reward of
disinterested benevolence. l\Jrs. Fox was not
pained by the sight of blind processions, as in for-
mer seasons, grouping their way to the benefac-
tor's residence. A perfect calm reigned within,
and the doctor sat like a philosopher, over a tub
of rain-water, filling small phials, labelled "siGHT
TO THE BLIND." ".Neither advice or medicine
given by Dr. "'Williams, ex-occulist to tM T,ing of
14
158 LOCAL LEARNING.
Brobdinag, without an advance fee offifty dol-
lars. .!lpplicants cannot be admitted 1oithout a
recommendation of some well-known clergyman."
Having learned that he is hourly expected to ,
re-visit the metropolis of the north, the scene of
his former meritorious exploits on the pur-blind
optics of the suffering community, I indulge a
hope that he will be received with that eclat
which is due to such an illustrions character.
Never was there a time when the people so
much needed to have their eyes opened by a
skilful hand, as at the present moment.
I was on the point of gi\·ing another paragraph
on the principles of banking in l\Iassachusetts,
with a learned comment on the policy of the
legislature, and what the General Court is called
upon, by the threatening aspect of the times, to
do, to save the Commonwealth, when I came
abruptly to the bottom of the sheet, on which
there was no room for a dissertation ; so the
reader is resjlectfully referred to my next volume
for a continuation of l\frs. Fox's discoveries,
while under the unexplained influences of Ani-
mal .Magnetism.
