{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__roget___treatises_on_physiology_and_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Treatises On Physiology And Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
TREATISES
O
N
P H Y S I O L O G Y
AND
P H R E N O L O G Y :
FROM THE SEVENTH EDITION OF
T H E E N C Y C L O P E D IA B R IT A N N IC A .
B y P. M. ROGET, M.D.,
SECRFTARY TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY, PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY
IN THE ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN*
Ac. Ac. fyc.
EDf5VBFRGH,-"
ADAM A N D C H A R L E S B L A C K , N O R T H B R ID G E ,
BOOKSELLERS TO HER MAJESTY FOR SCOTLAND.
1838.
K U I I S r B U K . a u •
P r i n t e d b y B a l f o u r a n d J a c k , N i d d r y S t r e e t .
P R E F A C E .
So great and so numerous are the improvements
which Physiology, in all its departments, has received
since the period of the publication of the former edition
of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, that it was deemed ne­
cessary by the Editor to give, in the present edition,
an entirely new Treatise on that subject. W hen I en­
gaged, at his request, to write this Treatise, I was far
from sufficiently estimating either the magnitude of the
undertaking, or the space to which, in endeavouring to
comprehend all its branches, the subject would extend.
The limited time which was assigned me for its com­
pletion, and my distance from the place of publication,
will, I trust, be admitted in extenuation of whatever
errors may be discovered to be still uncorrected.
In revising the article C b a n io s c o f y , which had been
published in the Supplement to the last edition of the
Encyclopaedia, and which the Editor purposed intro­
ducing in the present edition under the title of P hren­
VI PREFACE.
o lo g y , making such additions to it as I might think
were requisite, I have availed myself of this permission
to reply to some of the criticisms which had been made
upon it by Mr. G. Combe and Dr. A, Combe : it was,
accordingly, thought desirable to reprint the former
essay, with no other alterations than a few verbal cor­
rections, and the introduction of a few sentences de­
scriptive of some modifiations and additions to the sys­
tem of Gall and Spurzheim contained in Mr. Combe's
System of Phrenology.1 In the remarks which 1 have
subjoined to that essay, the reader will perceive that I
have refrained from entering into the discussion of the
numerous objections that might H urged against the
metaphysical part of the modern system of Phrenology,
having neither the leisure nor the inclination to engage
in controversies of this nature.
P. M. R.
L on d o n , Oct. 20, 1838.
1 In the quotation from that work relative to the organ of Even­
tuality, the sense has been seriously affected by a mistake of the
press, consisting in the omission of two lines in the M SS. ; it occurs
in the last sentence of the paragraph, which should have been as
follows: “ An author m whom Individuality is large and Eventuality
small, will treat his subjects by description chiefly; and one in whom
Eventuality is large and Individuality small, will narrate actions, but
deal little in physical description.”
N O T IC E TO T H E R E A D E R .
I n consequence of the Treatise on Phrenology pre­
ceding that upon Physiology in the alphabetical pro­
gress of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, the same arrange­
ment has been observed in the publication of these
Treatises in their present form. According to the
natural order of the subjects this arrangement ought to
have been inverted, and Phrenology subjoined as an
Appendix to the larger Treatise. The reader is there­
fore recommended to adopt this order in his perusal of
the work, as Phrenology being, strictly speaking, a
branch of Physiology, will be read with more advan­
tage after, than before that Treatise.
CONTENTS OF VOL. I.
P H R E N O L O G Y .
P H Y S I O L O G Y .
C H A P T E R I.
General V iews of P hysiology........................................ Page 1
C H A P T E R II.
A pplication of P hysiology.................................................. 131
C H A P T E R III.
A rrangement of F unctions........................................................ 152
C H A P T E R IV .
T he V ital P owers.......................................................................... 137
11 CONTENTS.
C H APTER. V.
Tiir. MroiiANiCAL F unctions— Organization in general— Com­
bination of Textures— The Cellular Texture— Adipose Texture
— Membranous Structures— The Osseous Fabric— Curtilage—
Fibro- Cartilagenous Structures—Ligamentous Structures—Me­
chanical Connexions— Articulation— Package of Organs— The In­
teguments— The External Integuments—Of the Internal Integu­
ments, or the Mucous Membranes—Muscular Actum—Structure of
Muscles—Muscular Contractility—Functions ofthe Osseous Fabric,
or Sheleton—The Cranium— The Face— The Thorax— The Spine
— The Pelvis— The Limbs in general— The Lower Extremities
— The Upper Extiernitics................... ............................Page 182
C H A P T E R VI.
A ssimilation— Chemical Constitution of Organized Matter—Ne­
cessity of Aliment— Chemical Conditions of Organized Matter
— Proximate Animal Principles— Gelatin— Albumen— Fibrin—
Arrangement of the Functions of Assimilation—Properties of
Food—Animal Food—Vegetable Food—Condiments—Appc-
Hunger—Thirst—Preparation of the Food for Digestion
— Mastication—Insalivation— Deglutition—Digestion or Chyh-
fication................................................................................................. 282
C H A P T E R VII.
Chyufication—Properties of Chyle—Functions of Intestines
— Properties of Bile— Functions of the small Intestines—Func-
CONTENTS. Ill
tions of the Spleen—Function* of the large Intestines—Lacteal
Absorption— Sanguification..................................................... Page 030
C H A P T E R V II
C ir c u l a t io n — Apparatus foi Circulation— Cardiac Apparatus—
Sanguiferous System in general— Arterial System— Venous Sys­
tem— Capillary System—Phenomena of Circulation— Course of
the Blood in its Circulation— Proofs of Circulation—Powers con­
cerned in the Circulation—Action of the Heart— Actions of the
Aiterms— Action of the Capillanes— Action of the Nerves—
Pulmoihtiv Circulation................................................................. . .%7
PHRENOLOGY.
P h r en o l o g y , derived from <
j>
p
r)v, the mind, and Xoyos, dis­
course, is a term which has been recently applied to denote
a new doctrine of mental philosophy, founded on a presumed
knowledge ofthe functions of different portions of the brain,
obtained by comparing their relative forms and magnitudes
in different individuals, with the propensities and intellectual
powers which these individuals are found respectively to
possess. This term has of late years totally superseded the
more unpretending titles of C r a n io l o g y and Ch a n io s-
c o py , by which this doctrine, in its earlier periods, and be­
fore it had aspired at effecting a revolution in psychology,
was designated, and which simply implied the study of the
external forms of the skull, both in men and animals, with
a view to determine the size of the subjacent parts of the
brain, and thence to derive indications as to the mental and
moral qualities of each individual.
The original propounder of the doctrine which is the
basis of phrenology was Dr. Gall, a physician of Vienna,
whose system, matured in conjunction w
T
ith Dr. Spurzheim,
has attracted so much attention, and been so keenly dis-
R
b PHRENOLOGY.
cussed, both here and on the Continent, that we think it
our duty to present our readers with a general outline of
this pretended science.
Of the several parts which compose the human body, the
mechanism of which has been so thoroughly unfolded by
the diligence ofmodern anatomists, there are few whose use
in the economy is wholly unknown. The intention and
operation of every part of our frame subservient to the me-
cllanicalpurposesofconnexion, oflocomotion,andofstrength,
such as the bones, muscles, and ligaments, arc, in general,
sufficiently apparent; the functions performed by the ab­
dominal and thoracic viscera are, for the most part, well
ascertained ; and wc are able, in like manner, to discern the
adaptation of the organs of sense to receive appropriate im­
pressions from surrounding objects. One organ alone, and
an organ of vast importance in the ^ytetem, connected with
every other, and essentially interwoven with our sensitive
existence, has baffled all investigation, and still presents a
wide blank in this rich and cultivated field of knowledge.
The brain, that large mass of pulpy substance, which fills
the cavity of the cranium, is, even at the present day, as
incomprehensible in its functions, as it is subtle and com­
plex in its anatomy. It appears, indeed, to be sufficiently
established, that the brain is, in some unknown way, sub­
servient to sensation and voluntary motion, and is thereby
the immediate agent by w'hich the soul and body mutually
exert an influence over each other: and it has also been
very generally supposed, that this organ is immediately con­
cerned in all our mental operations, besides being the in­
strument by which w
rc feel and act. But the phenomena
comprehended under the operations of the mind are ex­
ceedingly various and complicated, and are also of very dif-
PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BRAIN. 7
Jercnt kinds; so that before we can reason concerning them,
it is necessary that they should be properly distinguished
and arranged. Metaphysicians have, accordingly, classed
them as referable to our sentient, our intellectual, our ac­
tive, and our moral powers. Further subdivision again is
required ; and the intellectual phenomena, for instance, are
arranged according as they relate to the faculties of con­
ception, association, memory, abstraction, judgment, ima­
gination, invention, &c. Other phenomena are distributed
under the heads of the different active principles, such as
the propensities, the instincts, the affections, and the pas­
sions, which belong to our nature. Whilst we thus discover
a great diversity in the functions of the mind, we observe
also as great a complexity of structure in the organs by
which they are performed. Shall we rest satisfied with an
acquiescence in the general proposition, that the brain is
the organ of thought ? May we not rather regard it as a
congeries of distinct organs, corresponding to the different
faculties into which the mind may be analyzed ; each organ
having its appropriate office, and being immediately subser­
vient to some particular function of the mind ? The ques­
tion has, indeed, presented itself to many physiologists; but
few have ventured farther in attempting its solution, than
to throw out some vague and general conjectures as to the
uses of certain parts, or as to the supposed habitation of the
sentient principle. Thus, for a long period it was held,
that the cerebrum was the organ of perception, and the
cerebellum the organ of memory. The cavities which are
met with in the interior of the brain have often been con­
sidered as the scene of the intellectual operations. Ne-
mesius, the first bishop of Emesa, under the reign of Theo­
dosius, taught that the sensations had their seat in the an­
8 PHRENOLOGY.
terior ventricles, memory in the middle, and understanding
in the posterior ventricles. Albertus Magnus, in the thir­
teenth century, went so far as actually to delineate upon h
head the supposed seat of the different faculties of the mind.
He placed common sense in the forehead, or in the first
ventricle of the brain, cogitation and judgment in the se­
cond, memory and moving power in the third. Peter de
Montagnana, in 1491> published the figure of a head, on
wInch were indicated the scat of the sensus communis, the
cellula imaginativa, cellula cestimativa scu cogitativa, cel-
tula memoratim, and cellula rationalis. Ludovico Dolci,
Servito, and a great number of other writers, have hazard­
ed similar hypotheses as to the locality of the different fa­
culties. Both Haller and Van Swieten fancied that the in­
ternal senses occupy different places in the brain ; but they
considered its whole organization a^ too complicated, too
intricate, and too difficult, to allow of any hope that the
seat of memory, ofjudgment, or of imagination, could ever
be detected.
In the pursuit of this speculation, no one has engaged
writh more ardour and perseverance than Dr. Gall, who,
after many years of patient labour, and much fruitless wan­
dering in search of the truth, conceived that he had at last
discovered the clue which was to conduct us through the
mazes of this labyrinth, and enable us to arrive at a more
accurate knowledge of human nature, and of the means
which may conduce to its perfection. The account w
rhich
lie gave of the circumstances that gradually drewrhis atten­
tion to the subject, and of his progress in this new' path of
discovery, is as follows : Brought up in the midst of a nu­
merous family, and naturally gifted with the talent for ob­
servation, he was struck, even w'hcn a boy, with the diver-
T>K. GALL'S SPECULATIONS. 9
sities ofdisposition and of character amongst his brothers and
sisters, and the companions with whom he was educated.
He remarked, that each excelled in a particular study, or
was distinguished by a peculiar turn of mind. One was
noted for the beauty of his handwriting; another for his
quickness at arithmetic; a third for his aptitude in learning
languages; a fourth for remembering everything that he
read in history. This diversity was apparent in all that they
did; thus the style of composition of the one was remarka­
ble for its flowing and elegant periods; of another for its
baldness and dryness ; of a third for its condensation and
vigour. Many displayed talents for arts which had never
been taught them ; they excelled, perhaps, in drawing, or
in the execution of works of mechanism ; some sought lor
amusement in noisy sports, others preferred cultivating their
gardens ; a fewplaced their cliiefdeliglitin ramblingthrough
fields and forests, and in collecting birds, insects, and flow­
ers. One was of a social and affectionate disposition, an­
other was selfish and reserved; a third was fickle, and not,
to be depended upon. The great facility with which some
of his school-fellows could commit their tasks to memory,
which to him was a work of immense labour, although in
matters of reasoning and judgment he felt himself their su­
perior, often proved a grievous source of mortification, and
excited in him a strong desire to know the cause of this dif­
ference. lie at length remarked, that all the boys gifted
with this kind of memory had large and prominent eyes.
He afterwards went to the university ; and directing his at­
tention to all those among his fellow-students, who presented
the same peculiarity of feature, he learned that they were
all distinguished by the tenacity of their memories $ as, in­
deed, he soon found to his cost, for they were sure to leave
J2 PHRENOLOGY.
possessed most courage, and .thence drew inferences as to
the organ which prompted that sentiment. In order to ob­
tain more precise data for his conclusions, he endeavoured
to procure models of the more remarkable heads that he
met with, and generally got permission from the individuals
themselves to take a cast of their heads in plaster of Paris.
The Count of Sauran, then minister of police at Vienna,
gave him material assistance in effecting these objects; and
he w
ras thus in no long time in possession of a very large
collection of casts, all bearing more or less upon the seve­
ral points of his theory. If lie happened to hear of the death
of any one whose head he had already moulded, he was at
great pains to procure his skull, that he might compare the
form of its different parts with the shape of the head during
life. As it was soon known that the doctor aimed chiefly
at those who possessed some remarkable tale t, a very ge­
neral alarm spread itself amongst the inhabitants of Vienna;
and not a few were pursued with the terror of being select­
ed as the subjects of cranioscopical investigation, and of
their skulls being destined to make a figure in his anatomi­
cal cabinet. The aged Mr. Denis, librarian to the emper­
or, is said to have inserted an express clause in his will, to
protect his head from the keen scalpel of Dr. Gall. Not­
withstanding these fears and precautions, he contrived to
amass an extensive collection of skulls, as well as of heads,
in illustration of his doctrines. He next availed himselfof
the aid of comparative anatomy ; and having no family to
provide for, spared no expense in procuring skulls of all
sorts of animals, with a view of tracing the form and size of
corresponding organs throughout the whole series. Being
physician to the establishment for the deaf and dumb at
Vienna, he had opportunities of observing the natural fea­
DR. GALL’S RESEARCHES. 13
tures of uncultivated minds, and the various degrees in
which they were susceptible of education. With the same
view, he used to call together into his house persons of the
lowest class, such as coachmen, and beggars in the street,
and excite them to display their characters before him.
His professional practice made him acquainted with a great
number of families, and afforded him many opportunities of
making valuable observations. He neglected no means of
instruction that could be derived from the inspection ofthe
heads of patients labouring under different forms of insani­
ty. He wT
as physician to the director of establishments for
education, and was allowed to examine every child uho ex­
celled, or showed any remarkable disposition. lie visited
the prisons and houses of correction, as well as the hospi­
tals for idiots and lunatics. He took casts of the heads of
criminals, inquired into the offences for which they were
confined, and collected the history of their lives ; and thus
derived from every quarter materials for bringing his theory
to perfection.
As his observations multiplied, he became sensible that
he had fkllen into many errors in the earlier periods of his
inquiries, and was forced to give up many of his favourite
opinions, which he found had been too hastily adopted, with
regard to the general form of the head, as connected with
the character of the individual. He felt the necessity of
being in future more on his guard, and resolved to institute
a separate examination of the different regions of the skull;
and although he was here, also, frequently obliged to shift
his ground in assigning the function of each part, his re­
searches were, on the whole, attended with more uniform
success. By degrees he acquired greater confidence in the
stability of his conclusions, and at length ventured to an­
14 PHRENOLOGY.
nounce them to the public, by the delivery of lectures on
his new science. His doctrines were eagerly received, and
much canvassed at Vienna; but their fame had no sooner
reached the Austrian court, than a violent outcry was rais­
ed against them by the bigoted priests, who controlled all
the operations of that weak and misguided government, and
who represented these doctrines as tending to materialism
and atheism. The consequence of this senseless clamour
was, that Gall was interdicted from lecturing. But the
number of those to whom he had communicated the prin­
ciples of his art, and in whom he had infused a strong de­
sire to continue to profit by his instructions, was by this
lime \ery considerable, especially among the strangers who
happened to be at Vienna. They formed a strong party in
his favour, and made such interest at court, principally
through the medium of the foreign ambassadors, that the
doctor was again permitted to resume his prelections, on
condition that he delivered them to foreigners only; as it
was wisely considered that their being exposed to the dan­
gers of knowledge, would not be of any material conse­
quence to the state, as long as care was taken that the in­
fection did not spread farther ; the emperor kindly preser­
ving the bliss of ignorance lor the exclusive enjoyment of
his Austrian subjects.
It was long before Gall committed himself by writing on
the subject that had procured him so much celebrity. He
merely announced, in 1798, in a letter addressed to Baron
Retzer, which appeared in the Deutsche Mcrkur of Wie-
land, his design of publishing a large work on the new the­
ory,ofwhichhe affords his readers only an imperfect glimpse.
A detailed account was afterwards given by M. Froreiss,
one of his pupils, in the second volume of Voight’s Magazin
GALL AND SrURZHEIM. 15
Physique ; and an amusing outline appeared from the pen
of M. Charles Villers, in a letter addressed to Cuvier. Va­
rious surreptitious copies of'his lectures were also circulat­
ed throughout the protestant states of Germany, where
they excited so mucli curiosity, that Dr. Gall was at length
induced to make a tour for the purpose of delivering them
himself at the principal universities in the north of Ger­
many. With this view he visited Dresden, Berlin, Halle,
Jena, Weimar, Gottingen, Hamburgh, &c. and every where
met with the most flattering reception, being invited to the
several courts of the states through which he passed, and
treated with the honours due to a distinguished literary
character. By frequenting the first societies, and conver­
sing with the best informed persons, he had ample oppor­
tunities of extending his observations, and he was attentive
to improve these opportunities to the utmost of his power.
Dr. Spurzheim, who had at an early period been associated
with him in these inquiries, and who had devoted himself
particularly to the anatomical researches they comprised,
accompanied him in this tour, and participated in all his
labours. Dr. Gall at length settled in Paris, where he con­
tinued his pursuits and lectures, and united with them the
practice of his profession.
In 1810 Drs. Gall and Spurzheim published, in conjunc­
tion, the first volume, in quarto, of the work they had an­
nounced, and which was to contain a full account of their
doctrines, under the title of Anatomic ct Physiologic du sys-
tvme nerveux en general, ct du cervcau c/i particidier, avec
des observations sur la possibilite de reconnoitre plusieurs
dispositions intellectuelles et morales de Vhomme etdesani-
maux, par la configuration de leurs tetes. The first part
of the second volume appeared in 1812. This work, to^
1C PIIItENOLOGY.
gether with the one published in 1815, by Dr. Spurzheim,
entitled The Physiognomical System o f Drs. Gall and
Spurzheim,founded on an anatomical andphysiological ex-
amination o f the nervous system in general, and o fthe brain
in particular, and indicating the dispositio?is and manifes­
tations of the mind, contain the most authentic account of
their system. Information on the subject may, however, be
derived from the following books, besides those of Froreiss
and Fillers, already mentioned. The best of the foreign
works is that of Professor Bischoff, entitled Darstellung der
GalP schen Gehirmind Schddellehre, nebst Bcvncrhungen
vber diese Lehre, von D. W. Hufeland, Berlin, 1805. At
Dresden, in 1806, Bloede published a similar work, viz. Galls
Lchre uber die Verriehtungen des Gehirns, nach dessen zu
Dresden gehaltenen Vorlesungen ; and at Paris, in the same
year, we have, from the pen of Demangeon, Physiologte in-
tellectuelle, ou developemcnt de la doctrine du Profcssevr
Gall. A small tract in English, entitled Some Account o f
.Dr. Gall’s new Theory of Physiognomy, founded upon the
Anatomy and Physiology o f the Brain, and the Form o f
the Shull, appeared in London in 1807? and is chiefly taken
from Dr. BischofTs work, including the critical strictures of
Dr. Hufeland. Soon after the publication ofDr. Spurzheinfs
book, a small volume, principally reprinted from a short tract
in the Pamphleteer, was given to the public by Mr. Thomas
Forster, under the title of Sketch of the New Anatomy and
Physiology of the Brain and Nervous System o fDrs. Gall
and Spurzheim, considered as comprehending a complete
system of Zoonomy, with observations on its tendency to the
n)iprovcme?it o f education, o fpunishment, and o f the treat-
merit o f insanity. Two pamphlets in opposition to these
doctrines were published by Professor Walter of Berlin, in
MENTAL FACULTIES INNATE. 17
1805- ofwhich, as well as of BischofFs work, a short account
is given in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal
for July 1806. Dr. Spurzheim having conceived that he
was unfairly attacked in some of the Reviews, thought pro­
per to publish a reply, in a pamphlet which made its ap­
pearance at Edinburgh in 1817, entitled Examination of
the Objections made in Britain against the Doctrines of
Gall and Spurzheim. These, together with the lectures
delivered in London by Dr. Spurzheim, are the sources
which have supplied the materials for the following sum­
mary.
It is laid down botli by Gall and Spurzheim as the foun­
dation of their doctrines, that the nature of man, like that
of a\\ other created beings, is determinate, and that the fa­
culties with which he is endowed are innate ; that is, that
they are implanted in him at his first formation, and are not
the result merely of the external circumstances in which he
may afterwards happen to be placed, nor of the wants and
necessities to which these circumstances may have given
rise. They warn us that this opinion is by no means at va­
riance with that of Locke, who argues only against the in­
nateness of ideas, and not of the faculties or capacities of re­
ceiving ideas. Education, doubtless, has a powerful influence
in modifying and giving certain directions to these faculties ;
but the faculties themselves, that is, the capacities of* feel­
ing, of intellect, and of action, must have already pre-exist­
ed before they could be called into play, and thus produce
the various phenomena which diversify the scene of human
life. Savages have at different times been found in woods
destitute of all the ordinary faculties of rational beings.
Their resemblance to brutes has been supposed to be the
consequence of their total want of education; but, when we
18 PIIItENOLOGY.
come to examine into their real condition, we shall find that
they are wretched beings, with great bodily defects; for the
most part deeply tainted with scrofula, and almost always
complete idiots. In general, they appear to have been aban­
doned in their childhood by their parents, to whom they were
burdensome. The pretended savage of Aveyron, who was
kept in the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb at Paris, was
almost completely idiotical. He was quite deaf, and his
head and body were incessantly in motion from side to side,
even when he was sitting.
In estimating the causes of that diversity which we see
prevailing in the characters and faculties ofindividuals, much
lias been ascribed to the influence of diet, mode of living,
and the impressions received in early infancy, while the or­
gans are yet tender, and highly susceptible of every kind of
external influence. But the operation of these causes, as
well as the power of education in general, i& much too li­
mited to explain the immense differences w
re observe among
different men, and even among different children of the
same family. Helvetius and other bold metaphysicians have
maintained the paradox, that all men are born originally the
same, and are moulded into what they afterwards become
solely by the force of external circumstances. Genius, ac­
cording to this doctrine, is a mere creature of the fancy, and
originally belongs no more to one man than to another.
Train all men alike, and their powers, their attainments, and
their actions, will all be similar. Accident, more than de­
sign or premeditation, has fixed the destinies of great men,
as well as disposed of those who are unknown to fame.
“ Demosthenes,” say these philosophers, “ became eloquent,
because he heard an oration of Callistratus, whose eloquence
made so deep an impression on his mind, that he aspired
only to acquire this talent. Vaucanson excelled in mathe­
matics, because, being obliged, when a child, to stay alone
in the waiting room of his mother’s confessor, he found there
a clock, examined its wheels, and endeavoured,with the help
of a bad knife, to make a similar machine of wood. He
succeeded; and one step leading on to another, he arrived
at the construction of his wonderful automatons. Milton
would not have composed his Paradise Lost, had he not
been deprived of his place of secretary to Cromwell. Shak-
speare composed his tragedies because he was an actor, and
he became an actor because he was forced to leave his na­
tive place on account of some juvenile errors- Corneille fell
in love, made verses for the object of his passion, and thence
became a great poet. An apple fell from a tree at the feet
of Newton, while he was in a contemplative mood: this
event, so trivial in itself, led him to the theory of gravita­
tion.” Reflections of a similar kind arc often met with in
the writings of poets and moralists. Those contained in
Gray’s Elegy must be familiar to all our readers. Dr. John­
son considered talents or genius as a thing that, when once
existing, might be directed any way, Newton, he thought,
might have become a Shakspeare, for, said he, a man who
can run fifty miles to the south, can run fifty miles to the
north.
Yet these are but the ingenious speculations of the theo­
rist, more calculated to dazzle than to convince, and ob­
viously in contradiction with the daily experience of man­
kind. Original differences in the constitution of the mind
exist as certainly as in that of the bod) ; and doubtless are
dependents upon differences in organization. Children often
show, from their earliest infancy, the germs of those pecu­
liarities of character which adhere to them through life,which
PECULIARITIES OF CHARACTER. 19
20 PHRENOLOGY.
hardly any education can alter, and which no condition of
life or variation of circumstances can afterwards affect. It
is needless to expatiate on the subject of the diversities of
intellectual powers exhibited by different individuals under
the very same circumstances of birth and education ; diver­
sities which, as we have already seen, first directed the mind
of Dr. Gall to his physiognomical researches. Many of these
peculiarities are unquestionably derived from the parent,
and are observed to prevail in certain families, and to de­
scend through several successive generations.
That no sensation, or other affection of the mind, and
that no operation of intellect can take place without a cer­
tain condition of the nervous system, is a position establish­
ed by so many direct proofs, that its truth must be gene­
rally admitted. The question becomes more difficult when
we come to inquire what part of the system it is that exer­
cises these functions. It is quite clear that the sentient prin­
ciple does not reside in the nerves, or in the part which re­
ceives the first impression from the external cause of sen­
sation. The opinion which has been embraced by many
physiologists, and particularly Bichat, that while the brain
is the organ of the intellectual faculties, the nerves of the
great viscera of the abdomen and thorax are the seat of the
moral sentiments, is at variance with a multitude of facts
in comparative anatomy. There are animals endowed with
the faculties ascribed to these nervous plexuses, or gang­
lions of the great sympathetic nerves, distributed to certain
viscera, which have not the viscera in question. On the
other hand, most quadrupeds have viscera analogous in their
whole structure to those in man, without having the facul­
ties of which in man it is pretended they are the seat. We
have a complete series of proofs that the nerves, of them­
FACULTIES DEPENDENT ON THE BRAIN. 21
selves, and without an uninterrupted continuity with the
brain, can produce neither sensation nor voluntary motion.
Compression of the brain, by any cause, produces an entire
suspension of all sensation and consciousness, and puts a
complete stop to every operation of intellect. All the other
parts ofthe body, on the other hand, may be wounded or
destroyed, and even the nervous mass of the spinal marrow
may be compressed or injured, at a certain distance from
the brain, without the immediate destruction of the feelings
and intellectual faculties. In tetanus, produced by a cause
remote from the brain, the other nervous systems are af­
fected in the most violent manner, while the functions of
the mind continue unimpaired.
In children, Dr. Spurzhcim observes, the brain is yet
pulpy, and the faculties imperfect; its growth accompanies
their improvement; its maturity marks their greatest de­
gree of vigour. If its developement has been considerable,
the manifestations of these powers are energetic; if small,
they are comparatively weak. In proportion as the orga­
nization of the brain decreases, the strength of the moral
sentiments and intellectual faculties decreases also. If the
developement of the brain take place too early or too late,
the faculties exhibit corresponding variations. Certain fa­
culties are more active in men, and others in women, ac­
cording to the difference oftheir cerebral organization; and
peculiarities of character are hereditary, according as the
corresponding organization of the brain, on which they de­
pend, is propagated from parents to their children.
Although many facts show that considerable injuries may
be sustained by the brain without detriment to the mental
faculties, yet as a general principle, it is contended by Dr.
Spurzheim, that these faculties are weakened or destroyed
22 PHUEN(XLOGY*
in proportion as the brain is mechanically altered. It is.
however, certain, that physiologists are by no means agreed
as to this point; and that innumerable cases might be quot­
ed in direct contradiction to this principle. These are at­
tempted to be explained away by the general supposition,
that most of them are the result of very inaccurate obser­
vations, in which the statement of the facts has been dis­
torted and vitiated by ignorance, prejudice, or credulity;
and that the rest are inconclusive as to the general ques­
tion, from the observers not being aware of the real func­
tions of the injured parts, and being inattentive to the cir­
cumstance, that almost all the parts of the brain being dou­
ble, the loss of those on one side would scarcely be felt, as
long as the corresponding organs on the other side remain­
ed entire. On the other hand, it should be recollected, that
a derangement in an organ may occur of such a nature as
that our senses cannot enable us to discover it. How often
is this exemplified in fatal diseases of the nervous system,
such as hydrophobia, tetanus, and atonic gout. Analogy
shows us other parts where apparently no proportion is pre­
served between the injury and the derangement of function.
Sometimes large abscesses are met with in the lungs with­
out much disturbance of the function of respiration ; and
ossification of the heart, without any sensible affection of
the circulation. In persons possessed of great irritability,
very slight wounds of the brain may produce serious effects,
while considerable wounds in others, who are less irritable,
shall be attended with no bad consequences. This consi­
deration will go a great way towards explaining the fact,
that in many cases of insanity, instead of our discovering
any change in the brain, a diseased state has been observed
in the liver, the bowels, and other viscera; and may serve
OBJECTIONS. 23
as an answer to the assertions and objections of Pinel, who
states that the most accurate dissections have not taught us
any thing with regard to the seat of mental alienation, and
that we have no sufficient data to conclude, from diseases
of the brain, that it is exclusively the organ of the intellec­
tual faculties.
Those who have opposed the theory of the subserviency
of the brain to the operations of mind, have laid great stress
upon an argument derived from the phenomena of hydro­
cephalus. In patients afflicted with this disease, the brain
appears to be destroyed and replaced by water; and yet the
intellectual and moral faculties have remained perfect to .
the last. Drs. Gall and Spurzheim conceive, that the facts
have been very erroneously represented; and that the only
alteration which the brain sustains in these cases, is a dis­
placement of its parts, and not an absorption ofits substance.
The effused fluid, by accumulating in the ventricles, gra­
dually unfolds the convolutions of the hemispheres of the
brain, and expands them to such a degree, that they are
reduced to a thin stratum of substance, constituting a sort
of bag, within which the fluid is still contained. This stra­
tum of brain is sometimes not more than a line in thickness,
and is generally lacerated in attempting the dissection ; in
which case the water rushes out, the real structure escapes
notice, and the fluid is erroneously supposed to have been
accumulated between the brain and its membranes.
It has been advanced, as another objection to the same
theory, that monsters are sometimes born without any brain,
who yet suck and perform various movements. Actions of
this kind, however, are purely automatic, and appear to be
unattended with consciousness; with such actions the brain
has no concern whatever. Some have founded their oppo-
24 PHKENOJLOGY.
sition to the theory, on the result of some experiment.-, o1
Duverney on pigeons, which, it is alleged, continued to per­
form all their animal functions after the whole of the brain
had been removed from the skull. But Dr. Spurzhcim, on
repeating these experiments on birds and rabbits, found,
indeed, that the destruction ofthe superior parts ofthe brain
does not destroy the functions of the five senses and of vo­
luntary motion, but that it is impossible to take out all the
cerebral mass without killing the animal. As soon as the
corpora striata and optic thalami are wounded, convulsions
and death ensue ; consequently he does not hesitate to pro­
nounce the account given by Duverney to be entirely false.
He, in like manner, wholly discredits the stories related by
Morgagni, Zacutus, Lusitanus, Bartholine, Haller, Vallis-
neri, Moreschi, Giro, Dr. Simson, Soemmerr n g , and others,
concerning petrified or ossified brains being found in indi­
viduals, without prejudice to the exercise of their intellec­
tual faculties. He admits it to be doubtful, how far, in per­
fect animals, the brain may be necessary to the passive con­
sciousness of the external senses ; but deems it certain, that
the exertions of the will, including voluntary motion and re­
flection, depend entirely upon the brain; no phenomenon
of this kind ever taking place without that organ.
Concluding, therefore, that the brain is the organ of the
sensitive, the intellectual, and the moral faculties, we have
next to inquire, whether these faculties are exercised in com­
mon by the whole, or any particular portion of the brain, or
whether, on the other hand, they are more especially the
offices of different parts of that organ. Dr. Gall adopts the
latter of these opinions, and upon this view of the subject
is the whole of his system founded. The following is the
reasoning on which be builds it.
OriNIONS OF PHYSIOLOGISTS. 25
Physiologists, influenced by the metaphysical tenets of
the schools, have often maintained, that the soul, being sim­
ple, its material residence must be simple also, and that all
the nerves must end in one point; or, which amounts to the
same, that they can have but one common origin, because
each individual has but one soul. Bonnet, Haller, and oth­
ers, who had extended its seat to the whole substance of
the brain, were opposed by these metaphysicians, who did
not reflect that a little more or less room could not enable
them to explain any better the nature of the soul; nor that,
as Van Swieten and Tiedemann remark, a material point,
in which all ideas and sensations should centre, is incon­
ceivable, in consequence of the confusion and disorder that
would result from such an arrangement. It appears ridi­
culous, indeed, that the physiologist, to whom all nature is
open, should direct his researches and inductions by the
guidance of such frivolous speculations. Great pains were,
however, taken to determine this central point, or sensorium
commune ; but it is enough to enumerate the various and
contradictory opinions that have been held with regard to
it, in order to be satisfied of the utter futility of this re­
search. Descartes, in his treatise on the Passions, labours
to prove that the soul is concentrated in the pineal gland.
This hypothesis continued in fashion for some time, till it
found an enemy in a follower of Descartes, the Dutch phy­
sician Boutekoe, who dislodged the soul from its narrow*
watch-tower in the pineal gland, and confined it in the more
spacious prison of the corpus callosum. Lancisi, Maria,
and La Peyronie, successively declared themselves in fa­
vour of this new opinion ; and the latter of these anatomists
wrote a memoir in support of it, which was printed by the
Academy of Sciences in 1741, and which has since been
2 6 PHRENOLOGY.
republished separately. Digby next transferred the soul to
the septum lucidum in place of the corpus callosum. Vie-
ussens allowed it greater latitude, assigning for its bound­
aries those of the centrum ovale of tile medullary substance.
Willis, again, restricted it to the corpora striata ; Serveto,
to the aqueduct of Sylvius. Wharton and Schellhammer
placed it in the commencement of the spinal marrow; Mol-
inetti and Wrisberg in the pons Varolii ; Crusius and Meig
in the origin of the medulla oblongata ; whilst Drelincourt
and others lodged it altogether in the cerebellum. Lastly,
Soemmerring imagined the soul to reside in the serosity
which moistens the inner surface of the ventricles, to which
he had traced the extremities of many nerves from the or­
gans of sense ; and conceives that the different motions or
oscillations of this fluid are the immediate ) tutorial cause of
our sensations.
Discarding the notion that the functions of sense and in­
tellect are concentrated in any particular point or portion
of the brain, let us next examine the opinion that all the
faculties are exercised by the whole mass of brain consid­
ered as one organ. Wc may, in the first place, remark, that
the analogy of other parts of the system is adverse to this
hypothesis. Every different secretion has its appropriate
gland, the offices of which are never interchanged. The
liver never secrets urine, nor the kidneys bile. The five
external senses are distinct and independent of one another.
Every where do we observe that nature, in order to produce
various effects, has varied the material organs. The struc­
ture of the brain in its different parts, is far from being sim­
ple and uniform; it is composed of two substances; the one
soft, pulpy, and ash-coloured; the other;white, opaque, and
fibrous in its texture. The fibres of the latter run parallel
PLURALITY OF ORGANS. 27
to each other, having, at the same time, various collateral
connexions, but by no means uniting in any one central part
which can be considered as their common origin or termi­
nation. The parts of the brain are numerous, and distinct
from one another, bearing evidence of a very complex and
artificial construction. They are constant in their general
arrangement in different subjects, shewing in this respect a
striking contrast with the distribution of blood-vessels, or
even the disposition of the muscles and viscera, in which it
is so common to meet with variations. Comparative, as
well as human anatomy, furnishes strong analogical argu-
mei*ts in favour of a plurality of the cerebral organs, corre­
sponding to the plurality of faculties. However defective
may be our knowledge of the structure of these organs in
the lower animals, still a general comparison of their facul­
ties, as we ascend in the scale of being, show’s us that the
number of these faculties increases in proportion as the cere­
bral parts are multiplied. The immense augmentation of
the powders of intellect which w
T
e behold in man, when com­
pared with the limited instincts of animals, is neither in pro­
portion to the increased size of the five external senses, nor
of any other part of the body, but to the increase of the
cerebral organs only. It is the great size of the hemi­
spheres of the brain, more especially, that characterizes this
organ in man, and establishes its superiority, as an instru­
ment of intellect, over that of all other animals. Man unites
in himself all the organs which are variously scattered and
distributed among the brute creation ; but he has also or­
gans in his brain, which no other animal besides himself
possesses ; and these are the seats of faculties of a higher
order, peculiar to him alone.
Considerations arising from the differences in the propor-
2 8 PHRENOLOGY.
tional energy with which the faculties manifest themselves
in different individuals, are also in favour of the plurality
and independence of the organs. If the brain were one
simple organ of mind, and alike instrumental in all its fac­
ulties and operations, wherever we met with any one faculty
in a state of high energy, we must suppose the whole organ
adapted to produce this degree of energy, and ought to ex­
pect its other operations to be equally energetic. Yet we
may find the same individual remarkably deficient in other
faculties, which are equally dependent on this organ. One
person shall excel in verbal memory, while he cannot com­
bine two ideas philosophically ; another is a great painter,
but a bad musician, or a wretched poet; another is a good
poet, but a bad general. If the brain be a single instru­
ment, it cannot be at once both weak ar 1strong ; it can­
not exhibit one faculty in its perfection, and another in a
very limited extent. But all difficulty vanishes if we admit
it to be an assemblage of many organs ; for the combina­
tions of these organs may be as infinitely diversified as the
actions and powers of man. The argument derives addi­
tional force from the readiness with which this theory may
be applied to explain the diversity of character we meet
with in the brute creation, and especially to the varieties of
disposition observable among some of our domestic ani­
mals, which, under the same circumstances of education,
exhibit such different qualities. In like manner, the diver­
sity of character in the same individual, at different periods
of his life, are most readily explicable on the supposition
of distinct organs, which have their respective periods of
growth, maturity, and decline. The analogy of the exter­
nal senses is also strongly in favour of the same doctrine.
Thus the taste and smell appear earlier than the senses of
PLURALITY OF ORGANS.
seeing and hearing, because their respective organs are ear­
lier developed. This reasoning will be confirmed when it
is found, as will afterwards be shown, that the proportional
size of the different parts of the brain is very different in
different individuals. Is it not, therefore, reasonable to sup­
pose, that the different energies of the several functions of
the mind are connected with these differences in the struc­
ture of the organs which respectively produce them ?
The faculties of animal life are incapable of long continu­
ed exertion; rest is necessary for the renovation of their
powers. Fatigue is the consequence of the prolonged ac­
tion of the muscles of voluntary motion; but when one set
of muscles are fatigued, the power of others is still unim­
paired, and they are ready to be employed in a different ac­
tion, without any additional fatigue. When we have been
long sitting, we are relieved by standing; and even the
bed-ridden find ease from a change of posture. Our eyes,
in like manner, may be fatigued by looking at pictures;
but we can then listen to music, because there is one or­
gan for seeing, and another for hearing. It is well known
that study, long protracted, produces fatigue; but we can
continue to study, provided we change the object of atten­
tion. If the brain were a single organ, the whole of which
Is employed in performing all the functions of mind, a
new form of study should increase instead of relieving the
sense of fatigue. Thus the analogy is complete between
the phenomena of mental and bodily exertion. Are we
not, then, justified in extending it to the instruments by
which these operations of mind and body arc effected ?
The phenomena of sleep are also readily accounted for
on this hypothesis. During this state all the organs do not
FHREXOLOGY.
remain inactive ; but sometimes a particular organ enters
into action, and this constitutes dreaming. The state of
vigilance is that in which the will can put in action the
organs of intellectual faculties, of the five senses, and of
voluntary motion; but it is incorrect to define it as the
state in which all these organs arc active, for it is impos­
sible that all the faculties should be active at the same
moment. Somnambulism may be regarded as a state of
still more incomplete sleep, or one in which several organs
are watching. If, during sleep, the action of the brain is
partial and is propagated to the muscles, locomotion takes
place; if to the vocal organs, the sleeping person speaks.
All this may take place in different degrees. Some persons
dream and speak in their sleep ; others dream, speak, hear,
and answer; others, besides dreaming, rise, walk, and do
various things. This latter state is callee somnambulism ;
that is, the state of walking during sleep. Now as the ear
can hear, so the eyes may see, while the other organs sleep;
and there are undoubted facts which prove that several
persons in the state of somnambulism have seen ; but it has
always been with the eyes open. There are also convul­
sive fits in which the patients see without hearing, or vice
versa. Some somnambulists do things of which they are
not capable in a state of watching; and dreaming persons
reason sometimes better than they do when awake. This
phenomenon is not astonishing. If w
re wish to reflect upon
any subject, we avoid noise, and all external impressions ;
we cover the eyes with our hands, and we put to rest a
great number of organs, in order to concentrate all vital
power in one, or in a few. In the state of dreaming and
somnambulism this naturally happens ; consequently the
33
PLURALITY OF ORGANS. 31
manifestations of the active organs are then more perfect
and more energetic; the sensations are more lively, and
the reflections deeper than in a state of watching.
States of disease are also adduced as proving the plura­
lity of the cerebral organs. In many cases of insanity wc
find only one faculty deranged, whilst all the rest are in a
perfectly sound state. Lunatics, on the other hand, are
met with, who are reasonable only while pursuing some
particular train of thought. There was a chemist, for in­
stance, who was insane on every subject except chemistry.
An embroiderer, during her paroxyms of insanity, while
uttering the greatest absurdities, calculated correctly how
much stuff was necessary to such or such a piece of work.
The effects of blows, or other injuries on the head, supply
tacts of a similar kind, which afford still more convincing
proofs that the brain is susceptible of being very partially
affected. Some persons lose from this cause the memory
of proper names, while they preserve the memory of words
which indicate the qualities of objects. One Lereard of
Marseilles, after having received a blow from a foil in the
orbit, lost entirely the memory of names ; sometimes lie
did not recollect those of his intimate friends, or even
of his father. Cuvier, in his historical culogium on
Broussonet, states that this celebrated botanist, after hav­
ing recovered' from an apoplectic fit, never could recol­
lect proper names nor substantives, though he had reco­
vered his prodigious memory witli respect to other ob­
jects. He knew plants, their figure, leaves, and colours ;
he recollected the adjectives, but could never recover the
generic substantives by which they were designated.
These and similar instances of partial affections of the
faculties support the supposition of their being owing to
32 PHRENOLOGY.
different conditions of various parts of the brain subservi­
ent to these faculties.
Lastly, the doctrine that different portions of the brain
exercise different mental functions, is countenanced by
numerous authorities in former as well as in modern times.
It is expressly stated in the writings of Boerhaave, Van
Swieten, Haller, Prochaska, Soemmerring, &c.; and the
Academy of Dijon long ago proposed it as a prize-question,
to determine the situation ofthese different cerebral organs.
Charles Bonnet, indeed, went the length of maintaining
that each fibre of the brain is a particular organ of the
.soul.
It seems hardly necessary to expose the absurdity of the
accusation that these doctrines tend particularly to mate­
rialism, although the dread of such a coj sequence has been
sanctioned by royal edicts. There are two opinions only,
which, in respect to this question, stand opposed to each
other ; namely, that which asserts perception to take place
by the intervention of a material organ, and that which as­
serts it to take place immediately by the energies of the
mind itself, or at least without the intervention of the body.
The doctrines of Gall are unquestionably incompatible with
this last opinion, that is, with pure immaterialism, which
may in fact be regarded as denying the existence of matter
altogether. This sceptical spiritualism can be avoided
only by the admission of the necessity of a material organ ;
and if this be admitted, any modification of such opinion,
that does not exclude mind as the ultimate percipient, must
be equally remote from absolute materialism. The irama-
terialist believes that it is the soul which sees and the soul
which hears, as much as that it is the soul which judges
and the soul which imagines; and since he does not con­
ENERGY OF ORGANS DEPENDENT ON SIZE. 33
demn, as impious, the allotment of different organs of sight
and hearing, what greater heresy is there in the allotment
of different parts of the sensorium, as the organs of judg­
ment and imagination ? If, indeed, any one were to say,
that the affections of these parts are themselves judgment
and imagination, he would be a materialist; but he would
be as much a materialist, if he should say, that the affec­
tions of the organs of sight and hearing are themselves the
ideas of colour and sound.
Supposing it, then, established that each function of the
mind is exercised by a separate portion of the brain, let us
next inquire whether observation can furnish us with any
means of determining the precise nature of the function,
to which each particular organ is subservient. Although
it is clear that the adaptation of each organ to the perform­
ance of its office, must be wholly dependent on its parti­
cular organization, yet it is equally evident that no consi­
deration ofits general structure as shewn to us by anatomy,
can teach us a priori what such function really is, and still
less what may be its degree of energy, or its peculiar qua­
lity and modifications. The energy of the function must
in all cases depend on certain conditions of the organ, such
as the perfection of its original constitution, its elaborate
texture, its relative size, and the degree of exercise it
has received; and will also be regulated by the influence
which other faculties may exert on its operations. The
only one among these conditions, which is open to obser­
vation, is the relative size of the organ. In general, we
find that the properties of bodies act with an energy pro­
portionate to their size. A large loadstone attracts a greater
mass of iron than a small loadstone. A large muscle, in
like manner, is stronger than a small one. If the nerves
PHRENOLOGY.
of the external senses be larger on one side of the body,
the functions on that side are also stronger. Comparative
physiology shews us that the olfactory, optic, and auditory
nerves of those animals which are distinguished for the
excellence of their smell, sight, or hearing, are marked by
being numerous and large, evincing a more elaborate de-
velopement. The coincidence is so uniform as to justify
the general inference, that wherever any organ is met with
in a higher state of developcment, we may there expect to
find the power dependent on it increased in energy in the
same proportion. May not this analogy be fairly extended
to the organs which compose the brain ? Our present
object, it must be recollected, is not to determine every
degree of activity existing in a cerebral part, but merely
the nature of its function ; and for thr purpose the indi­
cation afforded by its comparative size, in different cases,
will suffice.
We may observe in different individuals a considerable
variation in the proportional developcment of different parts
of the brain. It is reasonable to suppose, that the func­
tions which are more developed in one person than in
others, will be more active, and manifest themselves with
more energy, than those which are less developed. Those
which are comparatively small we may expect to be less
active, and their powers more feebly exerted. Let us then
select as the subjects of observation such persons as are
marked by strong peculiarities of mind or character, and
especially such as are endowed with a partial genius, as it
is called; that is, who manifest in a very high degree any
particular faculty of mind : let us note the peculiarities in
the form of their heads, and observe what organs in them
are of an unusually large size. By repeated comparisons
34
we shall arrive at the knowledge of the particular organ
in which that faculty resides. The converse method, on
the other hand, must be pursued with those who betray a
singular deficiency of power in any faculty. With such
persons we must endeavour to discover what particular
part of the brain exhibits an imperfect developement. The
results of both these modes of determining the functions
of each organ, when compared together, will correct, and,
ifjust, will ultimately corroborate each other. Experience,
multiplied and extended, will finally confirm and establish
our conclusions, and complete the system in all its parts.
But the living brain can never be exposed to observa­
tion, and, from the nature of its substance, loses much of
its form and texture soon after death. It may appear im­
possible to discover the form or size of particular parts of
the brain during life, since the whole mass is inclosed in
the bony case of the skull, of which the thickness varies in
different parts ; and since the skull itself cannot be imme­
diately inspected, being covered by muscles and integu­
ments, which, by contributing to smooth all the inequalities
of its surface, must preclude us from forming an exact esti­
mate of its real shape. This obvious objection to the pro­
posed inquiry, Drs. Gall and Spurzheim labour to remove
by the following considerations. If we attend to the suc­
cessive stages of the growth of the skull, we find that its
ossification begins at different points; and the bony pro­
cesses extend in divergent lines, adapting themselves ex­
actly to the form and size of the cerebral parts they are
destined to inclose and protect. Whatever violence may
be done to the bones of the skull during birth, they soon
return to their natural state, partly from their elasticity,
and partly from the inherent powers of the brain, which
CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE SKULL AND BRAIN. 35
PHRENOLOGY.
tend constantly to restore its original shape. The com­
pression of the brain is besides of too transient a nature to
produce any permanent change in the primitive forms
either of the skull or of the brain. If it ever amounted to
what could irrecoverably derange the organization, and
hinder its future developement, the necessary consequence
of such a degree of violence would be death or idiocy.
In the progress of its growth, the increasing dimensions
of the skull keep pace with those of the brain. All the
cerebral parts do not increase simultaneously ; and this
partial developement isequallyobservable in the skull. The
forehead, for instance, which at birth is narrow and flat,
grows wider and more prominent from the age of three
months to that of eight or ten years. After this period,
the middle part of the forehead is less developed in pro­
portion to the other parts. The neck of the child is very
small, because the cerebellum, which is situated at the in­
ferior occipital fossae is not yet developed; but in propor­
tion as this organ increases in size, the skull grows promi­
nent at that part. The same happens with all the other
cerebral parts which increase progressively. The shape of
the skull cannot be in any degree influenced by external
causes, such as occasional pressure in one direction, as hap­
pens in carrying burdens on the head, or artificial model­
ling of the heads of infants, as is asserted to be practised
among the Caribs and other savage nations. In other
parts of the body we may remark, that whatever soft parts
are inclosed in bones, the shape of the latter is adapted to
the dimensions of the former, and is regulated by the
changes they undergo; the ribs, and even the spine, yield
to the pressure of an abscess, or the enlargement of an
aneurism ; and the bones of the face, in like manner, make
3 6
way for the increase of tumours, and adapt themselves to
the new form these render necessary. By experience in
feeling the living head, we may readily learn to distinguish
the form of the bones which lie beneath the integuments.
The observation of the shape of the skull, or of the head,
is therefore capable of giving us exact information as to
the relative size and shape of the different parts of the
brain, and on the knowledge thus obtained is founded the
art of Cr a n io s c o p y .
In practising this method, however, it is necessary to
guard against several sources of error. We must take into
account several protuberances, which belong to the natural
state of the skull, and which had some particular destina­
tions foreign to the immediate functions of the brain; such
as the mastoid processes behind the ears, the crucial spine
of the occiput, the zygomatic processes, and the frontal
sinuses. The cerebral parts, situated behind the orbits,
indeed, require some exercise on the part of the organos-
cope, in order to be exactly determined. The developement
may be perceived by the configuration and position of the
eyes, and by the circumference of the orbits. It is there­
fore necessary to examine whether the eyeball is prominent
or hidden in the orbit, whether it is depressed or pushed
sideward, inward, or outward. According to this position
of the eyeball, we may judge that such or such parts of the
brain, which is situated against such or such part of the
orbit, is more or less developed. The functions of those
organs, which lie wholly at the basis of the brain, can be
ascertained only by examination after death.
It may be objected, that the organs are not confined to
the surface, or convolutions of the brain ; but although this
be the case, and although they really extend from the sur-
CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE SKULL AND BRAIN. 3 7
38 PHHENOltOGY.
lace to the basis of tlie brain, or medulla oblongata, yet the
degree in which they are expanded at the surface, where
they form the convolutions, will indicate, in general, the
relative magnitude of the whole organ. The analogy of
the five senses, of which the peripheric expansions indicate
the dovelopement of their respective nerves, shews the rea­
sonableness of this supposition. From a large eye, imply­
ing a large retina, or peripheric expansion of the optic
nerve, we naturally infer that the nerve itself is of consi­
derable magnitude: may we not draw the same conclusion
with regard to the organs of the moral sentiments and in­
tellectual faculties, whenever we find that the convolutions,
which are their peripheric expansions, are much developed ?
In feeling for the organ, Dr. Gall recommends the use,
not of the fingers, but of the middle of the palm of the
Iland ; and declares that habit, as well a certain natural
delicacy of tact, is necessary to qualify a person to make
these observations with certainty of success. We are
warned, also, to confine our observations to young and
grown-up persons in the flower of their age ; for at an ad­
vanced period of life the brain diminishing by degrees, and
retiring from the skull, leads to the recession of its inner
table, and consequent inequality in its thickness, which
renders it impossible to judge exactly of the size or shape
of brain from that of the head. Analogous changes occur
in the skulls of some lunatics, and occasion similar diffi­
culties in applying the rules of cranioscopy. It is also to
be* considered, that our aim is to distinguish the size, and
not the mere prominence of each organ. If one organ be
much developed and tlie neighbouring organ very little,
the developed organ presents an elevation or protuberance,
but if the neighbouring organs tbe developed in propor­
THE PROPENSITIES. 39
tion, no protuberance can be perceived, and the surface is
smooth.
We have already stated the mode in which Dr. Gall
proceeded to apply and to verify these principles; it is
now time that we should present our readers with the result
of his labours.
He arranges the faculties of the mind, with their corres­
ponding organs, according as they relate to the feelings
and to the intellect: the first class comprehending the pro­
pensities, all which are common to men and animals, and
the sentiments, which constitute what the French denomi­
nate Tame, and the Germans gemiith ; and the second
class comprising the faculties by which we acquire know­
ledge, or the knowing faculties, as he terms them ; and
also the reflecting faculties, which last compose what the
French call Tesprit, the Germans gheist, and what we
should generally understand by the term intellect. He finds
that the organs of those faculties which men possess in
common with animals, are situated towards the basis and
back part of the brain ; while those of the superior facul­
ties, which are peculiar to man, are placed somewhat
higher ; and the organs subservient to the intellectual fa­
culties occupy exclusively the forehead. The total number
of special faculties is thirty-three, as may be seen by the
following enumeration.
1 . Of the faculties common to men and animals, the first
is that physical propensity which has for its final purpose
the continuance of the species. The cerebellum, a part
which occupies the lowest situation in the encephalon, is
affirmed to be the organ, the actions of which give rise to
this propensity. Accident led Dr. Gall to this discovery,
by his noticing the size of the back of the neck in a lady
40 PHRENOLOGY.
whose character, in respect to this passion, was not equi­
vocal : and subsequent observation cn an extensive scale,
both in the human subject and in the lower animals, have
abundantly confirmed him in his opinion. The following
are the leading arguments on which he has rested it. First,
the great size of the organ indicates the importance of the
function to which it is subservient, and there is no cause?
except the existence of such an organ in the brain, that is
adequate to account for this propensity. The function of
copulation takes place only in those animals which have a
nervous mass or cerebellum. Throughout the whole class
of quadrupeds, the neck of the male is thicker than that of
the female, as may be observed particularly in the bull,
the ram, and the stallion. It is also remarked that vigor­
ous pigeons are distinguished by the si/? of their necks.
The developement of the cerebellum is simultaneous with
that of the genital organs at the period ofpuberty, and early
castration prevents its developement, as well as that of the
beard, and the organs of the voice. Wounds of the neck
have been observed by Hippocrates to be sometimesfollowed
by impotcncy. In other cases, however, they produce ero­
tic excitement. Apollonius Rhodius, in speaking of the love
of Medea, represents her as suffering a violent pain in the
back of her neck. A case occurred to Professor Reinhold,
at Leipsig, inwhich an excitement of the genital organs suc­
ceeded the introduction of a seton in the neck, in a boy who
laboured under ophthalmia. Spirituous frictions on the
neck in hysterical fits are very useful. Lastly, the position
ofthe cerebellum is supposed to prove its destination. After
hunger and thirst, no function is more necessary than that of
propagating the species. This function is the most common
in animals after nutrition, and the cerebellum is in the infe­
TItE PROPENSITIES. 41
rior part of the head. Hence it is probable, that it is des­
tined to the propensity of propagating, or that it is, as Dr.
Spurzheim expresses it, the organ of amativeness.
2. Philoprogenitivcness, or the love of progeny, the
c
rropyrj of the Greeks, has its seat in those convolutions of
the brain situated immediately above the hind part of the
tentorium, and corresponding, therefore, on the outside of
the skull with the crucial spine of the occiput. Dr. Gall had
observed a distinct protuberance on this part of the head in
women, and comparing the skulls in his collection, found a
similar elevation on the skulls of children, and on those of
monkies. During five years he was in search of a faculty
that was common to all the subjects of those observations,
and was in the habit of suggesting this difficulty to his audi­
tors. At length a clergyman who attended, observed that
monkies have much attachment to their progeny. The Doc­
tor pursued this idea, and found that it applied perfectly to
the observed appearances, as the developement of this part
coincided always with the energy of this propensity. In ani­
mals it is generally larger in the females than in the males
of the same species. This rule holds good in the human
subject, although it is liable to occasional exceptions; for
there are men who manifest the strongest propensity to as­
sociate with children, and in whom we accordingly find this
organ larger than in the generality of women. In negroes
we find this organ more prominent than in Europeans. In
the cuckoo, the crocodile, and other animals to wdiomnature
has not appointed the office of rearing their progeny, this
organ is extremely defective. The crime of infanticide is
more likely to be perpetrated by mothers in whom this or­
gan is deficient in size ; and accordingly out of 29 women
who were guilty of this crime, Dr. Gall found 25 who had
42 rniiE xoL O G r.
this organ extremely small. On the other hand, a female,
who, being seized with delirium during child-birth, imagined
that she was pregnant with five children, was found to have
this organ unusually large. It must, no doubt, have been
of gigantic dimensions in the lady, who, stricken by the curse
of the gipsey whom she had refused to relieve, w
7
as impress­
ed with the belief that she was about to give birth to as many
children as there are days in the year.
3. The organ of Inhabitivcness, or the propensity which
some animals, such as the chamois and the wild-goat, have
to inhabit high situations, is placed still higher in the occi­
put than the former, in a line proceeding towards the top of
the head. In animals of the same species which live in low
countries, w'e do not meet with an equal degree of protube­
rance in this part of the brain, as is observa' le in those which
prefer living in elevated and mountainous districts. This is
seen even in the rat, some varieties of which choose for their
dwelling corn-lofts or the higher parts ofa house,while others
prefer living in the cellars. Tin's faculty is not very active
in man ; but Dr. Gall conceived that it was in him allied to
pride and haughtiness. Dr. Spurzheim, however, disclaims
this doctrine; as he thinks it impossible to confound the
•instinct ofphysical height” with the moral sentiment ofself-
love and pride. Mr. Combe, conceiving that this organ has
a more extensive sphere of action, and that it confers the
power ofbeing conscious ofevery tiling going on in the mind,
and of concentrating the attention, terms this power Con-
ventrativeness.
4. The organ of Adhesiveness, or the propensity to attach
ourselves to persons, animals, or other objects, is situated on
each side of the former, immediately under the lambdoidal
suture, and gives a fullness to the lateral and posterior part
THE PROPENSITIES. 4 3
of the head. This organ is the source of friendship, moral
love, society, marriage, and attachment of all kinds. Dogs
have it in an eminent degree, especially those races whose
fidelity and constancy are characteristic, as the terrier, spa­
niel, and lap-dog. It is less prominent in the butcher’s dog,
greyhound, and mastiff. It was very large in a notorious
highwayman at Vienna, distinguished equally as a robber
and a friend, and who chose rather to die than to betray his
confederates.
5. Combativeness, or the propensity to fight, results from
the operation of an organ, situated immediately behind the
ears on eachside, at a part corresponding to the posterior
inferior angle of the parietal bone, and behind the mastoid
process. It is the seat of anger, as well as of pugnacity ;
and its locality is fully established, in Dr. Gall’s estimation,
by an extensive series of facts. His first discovery of the
seat of this faculty, was from his observation of the head of
the Austrian General W urmser; and it was subsequently
confirmed by the experiments wT
e have already mentioned
which he made on boys he had collected from the street.
The breadth of the occiput is a criterion of the spirit and
courage of horses, dogs, &c. The bull-dog and pug-dog are
in this respect superior to the mastiff. The hyaena is strong­
ly contrasted with the hare, and the guinea-hen with the
robin red-breast.
G. Destructiveness, or the propensity to destroy in general,
but more especially to destroy life, lias its seat just above
the ears; the prominence of which part will account for^Jie
strange pleasure which some people take in killing or tor­
menting animals, in seeing executions, and for their inclina­
tion to commit murder. Among animals, this instinct for
blood is strongly marked in the carnivorous tribes, especial­
14 PHRENOLOGY.
ly in the lion, tiger, and others of the feline tribe ; and the
breadth of their skulls in this part shows us the great size of
this organ, compared with that of their victims, the sheep,
the goat, or the hare. The heads of murderers have in gene­
ral been found to possess a visible prominence at this place.
When the band of ferocious robbers and assassins, who so
long infested the left banks of the Rhine, under Sehinder-
hanns, had been caught, and a number of thorn executed,
Dr. Gall found this organ strikingly developed in the heads
of these banditti- This propensity is frequently strong in
children, in idiots, and in madmen. Its object, in the lower
animals, is evidently to procure the food on which nature
destined they should live ; yet some animals kill more than
is necessary for their nourishment. In man this propensity
presents different degrees of activity, fi >fh a mere indiffer­
ence to the pain of animals, to the pleasure of seeing them
killed or tortured, or even the most imperious desire to kill.
Dr. Gall called this faculty murder; but Dr. Spurzheim
thinks it produces the propensity to destroy in general, with­
out determining the object to be destroyed, or the manner
of destroying it. “ It gives," says he, “ the propensity to
pinch, scratch, bite, cut, break, pierce, devastate, demolish,
ravage, burn, massacre, strangle, butcher, suffocate, drown,
kill, poison, murder, and assassinate.” It would seem, there­
fore, that this organ has a great deal to answer for.
7. Comtructiveness, the propensity to build, or the dis­
position to the mechanical arts, is indicated by the deve-
lopement of the brain at the temples. Dr. Gall found this
to be the case in great mechanicians, architects, sculptors,
and designers; and also in the skulls of the beaver, mar­
mot, field-mouse, and rabbit, which construct habitations.
Hares, on the contrary, which lie in the fields, have this or­
THE PROPENSITIES. 45
gan defective, although in general they resemble rabbits.
He possesses the skull of a milliner of Vienna, who had a
good taste, and understood perfectly the art of changing the
forms of her merchandises ; in this skull the organ in ques­
tion is prominent. It is by means of this faculty that birds
build nests, savages huts, and kings palaces. It produces
also fortifications, ships, engines of war, manufactures of all
kinds, furniture, clothes, toys, &c. There was a lady at Paris,
who, every time she was pregnant, felt the greatest propen­
sity to build. The excessive size of this organ may lead a
man to ruin his family by building, or to coin false money.
8. Covelivencss, or the propensity to covet, gather, and
acquire, without determining the object to be acquired, or
the manner of acquiring it, has its organ situated at the tem­
ples, on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. This
faculty gives a desire for all that pleases 5 money, property,
animals, servants, land, cattle, or any thing upon earth. It
produces egotism and selfishness, and may, when abused,
lead to usury, plagiarism, fraud, or theft. The instinct of
stealing, it is asserted, is not always the effect of bad edu­
cation, of poverty, idleness, or the want of religion and mo­
ral sentiment. This truth, says Dr. Spurzheim, is so gene­
rally felt, that every one winks at a little theft committed
by rich persons, who in other respects conduct themselves
well. Mr. Combe terms this faculty Acquisitiveness.
9> The organ of Secretiveness, or the propensity to con­
ceal, or to be clandestine in general, is situated in the mid­
dle of the side of the head, above the organ of the propen­
sity to destroy. Dr. Gall first observed this organ in a per­
son who had many debts, but who had the address to conceal
his real situation, so that the creditors could have no know­
ledge of each other. He ascribes to this faculty cunning,
46 PHRENOLOGY.
prudence, the savoir faire, the capacity of finding means
necessary to succeed, hypocrisy, lies, intrigues, dissimula­
tion, duplicity, falsehood; in poets, the talent of finding out
interesting plots for romances and dramatic pieces; and
finally, the quality of slyness in animals, as in the fox and
the cat, who conceal their intentions, and are clever in hid­
ing themselves.
To the second genus of the order of feelings, namely,
Sentiments, belong the following faculties :—
10 . Self-love, or selfesteem. Dr. Gall first noticed this
organ, which lies in the middle of the upper posterior point
of the head, in a beggar, who stated that he was reduced to
his present condition by his pride, which made him neglect
his business. The animals endowed with this organ are the
turkey-cock, peacock, horse, &c. Dr. Gall thought this
organ is the same as that of the faculty which makes cer­
tain animals dwell upon mountains ; but Dr. Spurzhcim, as
we have already observed, draws a line of distinction be­
tween them. The two great activity of this faculty is the
cause of various abuses, as pride, haughtiness, disdain, con­
tempt, presumption, arrogance, and insolence. The want j
of it disposes to humility. It is said to be more active in
women than in men, and that its excess is sometimes the
cause of madness.
11. Love o f Approbation. Persons fond of the good
opinion of others, have the upper posterior and lateral part
of the head much developed. This may be called the or­
gan of ambition or vanity, according to the object, which
may be of various kinds. A coachman endowed with this
faculty is pleased if his manner of conducting horses be ap­
proved ; and a general is elated if he be applauded by his
nation for leading his army to victory. This faculty is more
THE SENTIMENTS. 47
active in women than in men, and even in certain nations
more than in others. More women become mad from this
cause than men.
12 . Organ of Cautiousness. Two persons at Vienna were
known to be remarkable for their extreme irresolution. One
day, in a public place, Dr. Gall stood behind them, and ob­
served their heads. He found them extremely large on the
upper posterior part of both sides of the head. Hence he
derived the first idea of this organ. Circumspect animals
also, as the stag, roe, pole-cat, otter and mole, and those
which place sentinels to warn them of approaching danger,
as the chamois, cranes, starlings, and bustards, have this
cerebral part much developed. This faculty produces pre­
caution, doubts, demurs ; and, in general, exclaims contin­
ually " take carer It considers consequences, and pro­
duces all the hesitations expressed by the word but. When
excessive, it produces uncertainty, irresolution, unquietness,
anxiety, fear, melancholy, Hypochondriasis, and suicide. Dr.
Gall finds this organ more strongly marked in children than
in grown persons.
13. The organ of Benevolence in man, or of meekness in
animals, is situated on the superior middle part of the fore­
head. In most animals it is restrained to a passive goodness ;
but in man its sphere of activity isvery considerable, produc­
ing all the social virtues, or in one word, Christian charity.
14. The organ of Veneration, or of Theosophy, occupies
the centre of the uppermost part of the osfrontis. Dr. Gall
had observed in churches, that those who prayed with the
greatest fervour were bald; and that their heads were much
elevated. The pictures of saints show the very configura­
tion which he had thus noticed in pious m en; and the head
of our Saviour, also, is generally represented of this shape.
48 PHRENOLOGY.
It is by this faculty that man adores God, or venerates
saints, and persons and tilings deemed sacred.
15. The organ of Hope is situated on the side of that of
veneration. Dr. Spurzheim considers the sentiment of hope
as proper to man, and as a sentiment necessary in almost
every situation; it gives hope in the present, as well as of
a future life. In religion it is called faith. Its excessive
developement produces credulity.
16. Ideality, or the poetical disposition. The heads of
great poets are enlarged above the temples, in an arched
direction. The sentiment inspired by this organ is the op­
posite of circumspection ; it renders us enthusiasts, while
circumspection stops our career by saying “ take care.” If
the part of the head above this organ, and a little backward
from it, be very much developed, the petson is disposed to
have visions, to see ghosts, and to believe in astrology, ma­
gic, and sorcery.
17. The faculty of Righteousness, or Conscientiousness,
which produces the sentiment ofjust and unjust, right and
wrong, has its organ situated a little more forward than the
organ of approbation. It produces the sentiment of duty,
and constitutes what is called conscience or remorse. Dr.
Spurzheim admits farther an organ oi'justice, which he seeks
for on the side of the following organ.
18. I ) derminateness, or Firmness. Dr. Gall observed
that persons of*a firm and constant character have the top
of the brain much developed. Lavater had made the same
observation. This faculty contributes to maintain the ac­
tivity of the other faculties by giving constancy and perse­
verance. Its too great activity produces infatuation, stub­
bornness, obstinacy, and disobedience. Its deficiency en­
genders fickleness and inconstancy.
To the order called Intellect, and the first genus of that
order, viz.the knowingfaculties,belong the followingspecies:
19* Individuality, or the faculty which procures us the
knowledge of external beings, after we have received im­
pressions from them by the external senses, occupies the
middle of the lower part of the forehead. Dr. Gall found
this part very prominent, indicating a great developement of
the anterior and inferior part of the brain, in all persons,
who, from their extensive, but superficial knowledge in the
arts and sciences, were capable of shining and taking a lead
in conversation. It has been not unaptly, though satiri­
cally characterized as the blue-stocking faculty. Tame ani­
mals have the forehead more developed than wild ones, and
are more or less tameable in proportion as the forehead is
more or less developed; Dr. Gall, therefore, calls this or­
gan that of educability. Dr. Spurzheim, however, objects
to this term, and has substituted that of individuality; he
also remarks that the organ is early developed in children,
because they are obliged to acquire a knowledge of the ex­
ternal world.
20. The organ of Form leads us to take cognizance of
the forms of objects, with the existence of which the pre­
ceding faculty had made us acquainted. Persons endowed
with it in a high degree, have a great facility of distinguish­
ing and recollecting persons ; they are fond of seeing pic­
tures, and if they make collections, they collect portraits.
Crystallography is the result of this faculty. The concep­
tion of smoothness and roughness also belongs to it. This
organ is placed in the internal angle of the orbit, and, if
much developed, it pushes the eyeball toward the external
angle, that is, a little outward and downward. The Chi­
nese appear to have it in perfection.
THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 4 9
50 PHRENOLOGY.
21. Size. After the existence and figure of any body,
the mind considers its dimensions or size, for there is an
essential difference between the idea ofsize and that ofform.
The organ must therefore be different; it is probably how­
ever in the neighbourhood of the former.
22. Weight. The ideas of weight and resistance, density,
softness and hardness, cannot be attributed to the sense of
feeling, and require, therefore, a particular faculty for their
conception. Its organ must be situated in the vicinity of
the two last.
23. Colour. The faculty of conceiving colour is, in like
manner, totally distinct from the sense of vision, or the fa­
culty of perceiving light. Its organ is placed in the midst
of the arch_o£the eye-brows, giving them, ^hen expanded,
a vaulted and rounded arch. This configuration is charac­
teristic of painters, and is strikingly displayed in the Chi­
nese, who are well known to be very fond of colours. This
faculty is generally more active in w
T
omen than in men.
24. Space, or Locality. The faculty of local memory,
by which we recollect localities, and find our way to places
where we have been before, is much stronger in some per­
sons than in others. Animals are also endowed with it,
and it enables them to return to their dwellings and their
progeny, when obliged to leave them in search of food. It
is conspicuous in some dogs; while others are very defi­
cient in this respect. The migration of birds is the result of
this faculty. The pictures and busts of great astronomers,
navigators, and geographers, as of Newton, Cook, Colum­
bus, &c. present a great developement of this organ, which
is situated under, but extends a little beyond, the frontal
sinuses. The swallow, the stork, and the carrier-pigeon,
have all this organ. This faculty conceives the places^ oc­
THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES, 51
cupied by the external bodies, and makes space not only
known to us, but inspires a fondness for this kind of know­
ledge. It makes the traveller, geographer, and landscape
painter; it recollects localities, judges of symmetry, mea­
sures space and distance, and gives notions of perspective.
25. Order. This faculty enables us to conceive order.
It gives method and order in arranging objects as they are
physically related. Its organ is probably situated outward,
but not far from the organs of size and space.
26. Time. Ideas of time are the result of a distinct fa­
culty ; for they may exist without those of order and num­
ber. They seem to be higher in the scale, and their organ,
accordingly, occupies a higher place in the brain.
27. Number. All the ideas that are concerned about
unity or plurality, that is, about number, belong to a faculty
whose organ is situated in a part of the brain near the ex­
ternal angle of the orbit. The object of this faculty is cal­
culation in general. When much developed, the arch of
the eye-brows is considerably depressed, or is elevated at
the outer extremity. This conformation is apparent in the
portraits and busts of great calculators, as Newton, Euler,
Kaestner, Jedediah Buxton, and Pitt. The heads ofnegroes
ai e very narrow at this part; and, in general, they do not
excel in this faculty.
28. Tunc. The perception of musical tone is distinct
from that of sound, and implies a different faculty from that
of hearing. Its organ is placed on the lateral parts of the
forehead. Its form varies according to the direction and
form of its convolutions. In Gluck and Hadyn, it has a py­
ramidal form; in Mozart, Viotti, Zumsteg, Dusseck, and
Crescentini, the external corners of the forehead are en­
larged but rounded.
5 2 PHRENOLOGY.
The heads and skulls of singing birds, especially the
males, exhibit this organ fully developed. Monkeys are ab­
solutely destitute of it.
29* Language. The organ of the faculty of learning the
artificial signs for the operations of the mind, of perceiving
their connection with the thing signified, and ofremember­
ing them, and judging of their relations, occupies a trans­
verse situation in the midst of the knowing faculties, and
presses upon the basis of the orbit of the eye, so as to pro­
ject the eye forwards when much developed. This produces
what is commonly called a goggle-eye, denoting strong
verbal memory. Sometimes the eyes are not only promi­
nent, but also depressed downward, so that the under eye­
lid presents a sort of roll, or appears swollen. Such per­
sons are fond of philology, that is, they like to study the
spirit of different languages.
The second genus of the order Intellect, viz. the reflect­
ing faculties, contains the following species:—
30. Comparison. This faculty compares the sensations
and ideas of all the other faculties; and points out their
difference, analogy, similitude, or identity. Dr. Gall ob­
served various persons, who, in every conversation, had re­
course to examples, similitudes, and analogies, in order to
convince others 5 and seldom to reasoning and philosophi­
cal arguments. In them he found, in the midst of the su­
perior part of the forehead, an elevation which presented
the form of a reversed pyramid, and he named this organ,
according to its functions, the organ of analogy. Natidns
who have this faculty in a high degree are fond of figurative
language.
31. Causality. This faculty examines causes, considers
the relations between cause and effect, and always prompts
THE REFLECTING FACULTIES. 5 3
men to ask, Why f Persons fond of metaphysics have the
superior part of the forehead much developed and promi­
nent in a hemispherical form, as Mendelsohn, Kant, Fichte,
and others. The ancient artists have given to Jupiter Capi-
tolinus a forehead more prominent than to any other an­
tique head.
32. Wit. Persons who have this faculty, who write like
Sterne, Voltaire, Piron, &c. have the superior external parts
of the forehead elevated. The essence of this faculty con­
sists in its peculiar manner of comparing, which always ex­
cites gaiety and laughter. Jest, raillery, mockery, ridicule,
irony, &c. are its offsprings.
33. Imitation. Persons who have a considerable eleva­
tion of a semi-globular form at the superior part ofthe fore­
head, have the faculty of imitating, with great precision,
the gestures, voice, manners, and, in general, all the natu­
ral manifestations of men and animals. They have a dispo­
sition to be actors, and are prone to gesticulation. This or­
gan is, in general, more developed in children than in adult
persons.
To the above catalogue of the organs enumerated by Dr.
Spurzheim, Mr. Combe has since added the two following,
namely,
34. The organ of Wonder, (situated immediately above
Ideality, in the lateral parts of the anterior regions of the
vertex,) which occasions the belief in the reality of ghosts,
and other mysterious apparitions and visitations, and inspires
a love for all that is marvellous and supernatural, and also
a taste for novelty and fashion. When largely developed,
it excites young men, born and bred in inland situations, to
choose the sea as a profession.1
1 System o f Phrenology, fourth edition, p. 381.
D
5 4 PIIRENOLOGT.
35. The organ of Eve?itualitg, which, when large, gives
prominence or a rounded fulness to the middle of the fore­
head. “ The function of this faculty is to take cognizance
of changes, events, or active phenomena, indicated by ac­
tive verbs. In such expressions as the r o c k falls, the
iio r s e gallops, the b a t t l e isfought, the substantive springs
from Individuality, and the verb from Eventuality. It
prompts to investigation by experiment, while Individuality
leads to observation of existing things. Individuality gives
the tendency to personify abstract ideas, such as Ignorance
and Wisdom ; and Eventuality to represent them as acting.
An author in whom Individuality is large, and Eventuality
small, will narrate actions, but deal little in physical descrip­
tion”1
Two other primary faculties arc mentioned by Mr. Combe;
one, which he terms A linventiveness, or the desire of eating
and drinking; and another, which haa ieen called by Spurz-
heim Vitativcness, or the Love o f L ife ; but the seat oi
these powers has not been exactly determined.
Excepting in the case of idiots, all the thirty-five or­
gans above described are possessed by every person, but
they exist in greater or less perfection in different indivi­
duals. Peculiarity of character is the result of irregularity
in the original structure, or inequality in the relative deve-
lopement of the several organs; circumstances which, accor­
ding as they are diversified, lay the foundation of every ex­
cellence, as well as constitute the fatal sources of vice and
depravity. These doctrines should, however, by no mfcans
be understood as lending their sanction to the latter; lor
crimes are considered as flowing from the abuse of certain
1 System vf Phrenology, fourth edition, p. 518.
faculties, and as still requiring for their prevention the coun­
teracting influence of morality, and the salutary coercion of
law. It must be of importance to every individual to know,
if such knowledge be attainable, what is the degree ofener­
gy of the propensities and other faculties with which he
may have been naturally and originally endowed ; because
every organ and corresponding faculty may be invigorated
by proper exercise. The business of education will accor­
dingly consist in exciting or restraining their developement,
according to their natural deficiency or exuberance. Phre­
nology, by pointing out what arc the strongest faculties in
a child, will enable us to adopt the best plan of intellectual,
as well as moral discipline ; will assist us in regulating hi*
passions, and maintaining a due balance between all his
moral sentiments ; and guide us in the choice of a profes­
sion for our pupil, conformable to the particular bent of his
genius. “ What benefit would arise to society,” says Mr.
Forster, the zealous advocate of these doctrines, “ should
we be enabled to make a just election of objects in youth,
to be placed in situations capable of ripening their natural­
ly energetic faculties. Phrenology will lead to important
considerations regarding criminal punishment, particularly
in houses of correction. It will enable us to distinguish, not
only between those who have naturally strong evil propen­
sities, from those whom distress or other contingencies may
have hurried on to crime, but will point out the particular
nature of the evil propensities to be corrected.” It will also
tend, he conceives, to establish important distinctions be­
tween different kinds of insanity, and enable us to discover
the treatment appropriate for the cure of each. Lastly, it
may prepare the way to a radical improvement of the hu­
man race, by pointing out those conformations of the head
APPLICATIONS OF PHRENOLOGY”
. 55
56 PHRENOLOGY.
which it is desirable to eradicate or to perpetuate, and which
should therefore be avoided or preferred in the choice of
marriages. “ It is certainly a pity,” says Dr. Spurzheim,
“ that, in this respect, we take more care of the races of
our sheep, pigs, dogs, and horses, than ofour own offspring.”
Such is the body of doctrines, and such the reasonings
in their support, which have emanated from the school of
Gall and Spurzheim, and w'hich they have dignified with
the appellation of a new science. A host of opponents, as
might be expected, have arisen against a system so much
at \ ariance with common notions, leading to conclusions so
remote from vulgar apprehension, and admitting so easily
of being held up to ridicule by partial or exaggerated state­
ments. We have already noticed the objection founded
upon its supposed tendency to favour mat* rialism, and shall
pass over others of a similar nature, which proceed upon
the presumption of a greater knowledge of the law's of the
creation than w
y
e really possess, or which are derived from
imperfect or mistaken views of the theory itself. We shall
also refrain from employing the weapons of ridicule against
a system so vulnerable to its attacks, and which w'ould have
been so capable of affording Swift a new incident for the
history of the philosophers of Laputa. The simple exposi­
tion of the sandy foundation on which it has been built, of
the flimsy materials of which it has been composed, and the
loose mode in which they have been put together, will suf­
fice to enable our readers to form their own conclusions as
to the soundness and solidity of the edifice.
It is, in the first place, obvious, that nothing like direct
proof has been given that the presence of any particular part
of the brain is essentially necessary to the carrying on ofthe
operations of the mind. The truth is, that there is not a
single part of the encephalon, which has not, in one case or
other, been impaired, destroyed, or found defective, with­
out any apparent change in the sensitive, intellectual, or
moral faculties. Haller has given u$ a copious collection
of cases, which bear upon this point; and a similar cata­
logue has been made by Dr. Ferriar, who, in a paper in the
fourth volume of the Manchester Transactions, has selected
many ofHaller’s cases,with considerable additions from other
authors. The evidence afforded from this mass of facts,
taken conjointly, appears tousto be sufficient tooverturn their
fundamental proposition. This evidence is not impeached
by the feeble attempts of Dr. Spurzheim to evade its force,
by a general and vague imputation of inaccuracy against
the observers, or by having recourse to the principle of the
duplicity of each of the cerebral organs; a principle of very
dubious application, on a subject of so much uncertainty as
the physiology of the brain. Poor, indeed, must be hisYe-
sources, when we find him resorting to the following argu­
ment, in proof that the brain is the organ of thought, namely,
that “ every one feels that he thinks by means of his brain.”
We doubt much if any one has naturally that feeling.
It requires,, also, but a slight attention to perceive, that
the very ground-work on which the whole of the subsequent
reasoning proceeds, namely, that the different faculties of
the mind are exercised respectively by different portions of
the brain, is in no respect whatever established. The only
arguments in its favour which bear the least plausibility, are
derived from analogy. Now, analogy, in reasoning concern­
ing die unknown operations, of nature, is, at best, but slip­
pery ground; and when unsupported by any other kind of
evidence, cannot lead to certain knowledge, far less con -
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY. 57
58 PHKENOLOGY.
stitute the basis of an extensive system. The utility of
analogical deductions as to what takes place in one depart*
ment of nature, from our knowledge of what occurs in
another, consists chiefly in their affording indications ofwhat
may possibly happen, and thus directing and stimulating our
inquiries to the discovery of truth by the legitimate road of
observation and experiment. But to assume the existence
of any such analogy as equivalent to a positive proof, result­
ing from the evidence of direct observation, is a gross vio­
lation of logic. Yet it is upon assumptions of this kind that
Drs. Gall and Spurzheim have ventured to found all the
leading propositions of their doctrine. In the secretions of*
the body, they observe, the preparation of different fluids is
consigned to different glands, having different appropriate
structures ; and they consider this analogy as a demonstra­
tive proof of what happens in the opera omsof thought, and
the phenomena of the passions, which, because they differ
as much in their nature as milk does from gall, must, accord­
ingly, be the result of actions in different portions of the
brain; which portions are, therefore, to be regarded as so
many different organs, rather than as parts of one organ.
Even in a case where all the analogies are favourable to one
side of a question, such a loose mode ofreasoning would be
entitled to little confidence; but how fallacious must it not
prove, when analogies can be pointed out which apply in the
opposite direction? It requires no extensive knowledge of the ,
animal economy to perceive, that modifications offunctions
equally diversified with those of the intellect, are, in many
cases, the result of actions taking place in the same organ.
Does notthe same stomach digest very different and even op­
posite kinds of aliment? Yet we do not find that one portion
ofthat organ is destined for the digestion ofmeat, and another
for the digestion ofvegetable matter; although theoperations
required for the conversion of such different ingredients into
the same chyle, cannot possibly be the same. Nerves perform
the double office of volition and sensation; but the different
bundles offibreswhich convey each impression, theonetothe
muscles, the otherto the sensorium, are wrappedup in the same
sheath, and are so intimately intermixed during their course
as to constitute a single cord. The same organ serves for
the hearing of acute and of grave sounds. The whole retina,
and not merely different portions of its surface, receives the
impression of different kinds of colour; there is not one or­
gan for the perception of blue and another for the percep­
tion of red rays. Guided by such analogies as these, might
we not be equally justified in concluding, that the same part
of the brain may serve for the memory of words, as for the
memory of things; and that the same portion of that organ
which enables us to conceive the idea of figure, may also
suggest to us that of size?
The same doctrine of the plurality of cerebral organs, is
endeavoured to be supported by another analogy, equally
vague and loose with the former, namely, that the sense of
fatigue from long continued muscular exertion, resembles,
in its circumstances, the effects of long continued study on
the mind, and is equally relieved, in both cases, by a change
of action. To us, however, it appears, that this analogy
might, with equal justice, have been adduced, as favouring
the opposite view of the subject; for we canjust as readily
conceive the sense of fatigue to take place from the exer­
cise of the whole organ in a particular mode, as from that
of any part of the organ ; and relief must equally, in both
cases, be experienced from the ceasing of that action, or
from the substitution of one of a different kind. The mus­
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY. 5 9
6 0 PHRENOLOGY.
cles admit only of one kind of action; and the energy which
each derives from the nerves, when once exhausted, is not
so readily replaced from the general stock belonging to the
system. In the finer textures of the body, which approach
more to that of the brain, the analogy not only fails of giv­
ing support to the doctrine, but has an opposite tendency.
The same retina, when fatigued by the continued impres­
sion of a particular colour, is still as ready as before to re­
ceive the impression ofanother colour. The circumstance
of partial fatigue with regard to one set of actions, may,
therefore, exist, without implying the necessity of a sepa­
rate organ for the performance of these actions. Indeed,
if the brain have any laws similar to those of muscular mo­
tion, it must have a much greater number peculiar to itselfj
and all such distant analogies as those we have been con­
sidering, must be perfectly inconclusive. Similar observa­
tions will apply to the explanation of the phenomena of
sleep, of dreams, of somnambulism, of partial losses of me­
mory, and of insanity. It is equally conceivable, that they
should result from the imperfect or differently modified ac­
tions of one organ, as from the separate activity of different
parts of that organ, whilst the other parts are inactive. Ana­
logies may be equally adduced in support of both sides of
the question, and can certainly prove nothing on either.
Drs. Gall and Spurzheim appeal with great confidence
to anatomy, and particularly to their own anatomical dis­
coveries, as affording a solid support to their doctrines.
“ We never," say they, “separate anatomy from physiology,
for physiology without anatomy is unfounded; while ana­
tomy without physiology is useless. A physiological sys­
tem of the brain would necessarily be false, were it in con­
tradiction with its anatomical structure.” This conclusion,
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY. 61
which at best is but a negative one, is totally inapplicable
to the theories in question. The anatomy of the brain is
so complex, and so void of apparent adaptation to any pur­
pose we can understand, that it will suit any physiological
system nearly equally well; at least it can never be adduc­
ed in contradiction of any hypothesis, however wild, that
can be framed as to the mutual operation ofsoul and body.
All that these anatomists have done, in this respect, is to
show that there is no appearance of a common centre of
departure or of a collection of nervous filaments. The se­
paration of the parts ofthe brain and their diversity of shape,
can no more be evidence of a diversity in their functions,
than the multitude of distinct and separate lobules which
compose the kidneys of birds, and of a great number of
quadrupeds, are indications that each part performs a dif­
ferent office. Comparative anatomy, indeed upon which so
much is made to hinge, is of all guides the most fallible in
questions of this nature ; since we behold, in numberless in­
stances, a great variety ofways in which nature accomplish­
es the same function and the same purpose, in different de­
partments of the animal creation. But on a comparison of
animals with each other, it may even be doubted, whether
there is any connexion or proportion observable between
their intellect or inclinations and the number ofparts in their
brains.
The possibility of discovering the size and the shape of the
different parts of the brain from the external examination
of the head, is also discountenanced by anatomy. There
are often considerable impressions on the interior of the
skull, where the corresponding exterior surface does not ex •
hibit the slightest appearance of projection, and is sometimes
even depressed; and there are frequently large prominen­
(12 PHRENOLOGY.
ces without, where there are no corresponding concavities
within 5 so that when the outer surface of the bony case is
compared with a mould in plaster or wax of the cavity it­
self, they exhibit considerable differences, and, from the
great variation which may take place in the thickness of
the bones, this difference is not the same in degree in any
two skulls.
Hollow as are the foundations of this theory, the mate­
rials which compose the superstructure will prove, on exa­
mination, to be still more frail and unsound. The whole
fabric rests upon the validity of a single proposition, which
in itself is extremely questionable, namely, that the size of
an organ is in general a criterion of the energy with which
its function is performed. If any doubt should remain as
to its truth, the whole of the pretended discoveries relative
to the functions of the several parts of the b a|n are shaken,
and the fantastical edifice has no auxiliary prop to arrest its
fall. So essentially, indeed, does the whole of this system
depend upon the truth of a number of independent propo­
sitions, that if any one of them should turn out to be incor­
rect, the whole fabric must give way. The evidence in its
favour, instead of being cumulative, is disjunctive. Where
each proposition must be sustained by a separate series of
proofs, as is the case here, it is evident that the chances of
error must be multiplied in proportion to the number of
steps we must ascend before we can arrive at the last con­
clusions. Let us, for example, examine the logic by which
the above fundamental principle is deduced. “ A large mus­
cle,” say they, “ is stronger than a small one ; and a large
loadstone is more powerful in its attraction than a smaller
one. Why should it not be the same with regard to the
brain ?” Thus again do they confide in a loose analogy, de­
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. 6 3
rived iirom another and a totally different part of the econo­
my ; and as if the organization and functions of the animal
body were not sufficiently remote from the nature and oper­
ations of the human mind, the inanimate world is ransacked
for the shadows of an analogy, which, when viewed through
such a distance of intervening mist, may wear the semblance
of reality. But the phantom must immediately vanish upon
a near inspection. For the perfection of a refined and deli­
cate instrument, such as must be that which is subservient
to the operations of the intellect, innumerable conditions
must concur; amongst which that of size, it is reasonable
to suppose, is the least important. Delicacy of texture,
fineness oforganization, and harmony ofadjustment between
the several parts of its complex structure, must contribute
infinitely more towards rendering it capable of performing
its office, than superior magnitude ; a circumstance which
in itself is quite as likely to prove a source of imperfection,
as to impart additional facility. Increase of size in the vis­
cera of the body is often the indication of a diseased, in­
stead of a healthy state. Small eyes, Professor Hufeland
observes, see with more strength, and last longer than large
eyes. Why may not this be also the case with the organs
of the brain ? But really, in our present state of ignorance
as to the mode of operation by which they are subservient
to the processes of intellect and sensation, all such reason­
ings a p riori on their functions, as connected with their
size, must be completely illusory.
Even were we to admit so questionable a doctrine as that
the energies of the parts of the brain are proportional to
their magnitude, insuperable difficulties would still be op­
posed to the determination of their relative size in the liv­
ing head; crowded as all these organs are in a narrow com­
G4 PHRENOLOGY*
pass, and completely hid from our view by an irregular bony
case which protects them from injury, and which is itself
covered by a thick and variable layer ofmuscle and integu­
ment. Let us, however, for the sake of argument, suppose
that the form of each organ within the skull can really be
ascertained by external examination of the head; shall we
allow it to be an easy task to determine the real character
of the individual who is the subject of observation ? Are we
always able to discriminate between real and affected senti­
ment ; or to mark with certainty the operation of all the
various motives which constitute the springs of action? Is
the transient glance of a passing observer sufficient for unra­
velling the complex web of our affections, or unveiling the
secret and tortuous recesses of the human heart, so as to as­
sign to each principle its precise sphere of agency ? Can
the most profound moralist, or acute nt< physician, pro­
nounce with confidence what are the natural dispositions of
any human being, knowing as we do, that these dispositions
must have been changed or modified, exalted or subdued,
perverted or refined, by the force of habit, education, ex­
ample, and a multitude of other powerful causes, which, in
his progress through life, have moulded his intellectual and
moral constitution ? Can he trace them through the guise
of falsehood, artifice, and dissimulation, which so common­
ly hide his real character from the world, and which occa­
sionally deceive the eye of the closest and most vigilant
observer ? Is it to the behaviour of a person who knows
that he is watched ; is it to the partial report of his friends ;
is it to the testimony of the individual himself, the most
fallible of all, that the phrenologist is to trust for his know­
ledge of human character ? Such, however, is the kind of
experience, from which it appears that all the doctrines re­
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. 6 5
lative to the functions of the different parts of the brain have
been derived $ and it is in this experience, as in an impreg­
nable fortress, that the adherents of the system make their
last and most resolute stand. Quitting the airy region of
theory, they fancy themselves posted upon a rock, secure
against the insidious minings of scepticism, and bidding de­
fiance to the rude assaults of argument. The appeal to the
evidence of induction, as to the supreme authority in the
court of philosophy, is made with confidence ; and all the
wild effusions of a bewildered fancy are presumed to be
sanctioned by a supposed conformity with experience. You
may speculate or reason, they exclaim, as you please; ob­
servation shows that such and such forms of the head, are
the invariable concomitants of such and such predominant
dispositions and faculties. Who will dare to set up his opi­
nion in opposition to ascertained facts ? We venture only
to express strong doubts as to the reality of these facts, on
which so much is made to depend, possessing the character
of generalfacts, that is, of being the results of legitimate
induction; and to suggest the expediency, previously to
any admission of their truth, of inquiring not only into the
manner in which the knowledge of these pretended facts
has been obtained, and in which inductions from them have
been made, but also into the talents and qualifications of
the observer upon whose testimony we receive them for the
exercise of this philosophical process. We should know in
what spirit he conducted the inquiry; with what previous
dispositions he examined the objects of his contemplation ;
what motives led him to these researches; and what inter­
est he may have in the event. Experience, we should re­
collect, leads to very different results, according to the sa­
gacity and good faith of the person who acquires it. Minds
66 PHRENOLOGY.
already prejudiced collect from it only a confirmation of
their errors, and become, by its means, only the more ob­
stinately wedded to their opinions. The sailor, steadfast in
his belief that his whistling to the sea will raise a wind, or
conjure up a storm, instead of being undeceived by expe­
rience, is only the more strengthened in his faith by the
observations which it famishes to him. In what a multi­
tude of instances do we not find men deceiving themselves
as grossly, when they draw inferences from what they see,
if prepossessed with the expectation of meeting with a cer­
tain coincidence, or succession of events. How disposed
are we all to disregard the exceptions to a preconceived
rule, and to allow undue weight to every example that con­
forms to it. How willingly we repel the evidence that op­
poses, and how eagerly we catch at whatever corroborates
our previous notions, especially when those litions have
originated with ourselves, and are viewed as the darling off­
springs of our own lucubrations.
The discerning reader may already have perceived strong
indications of this bias in the framers of the phrenological
system, from the account we have already given of its ori­
gin and history, and of the kind of evidence on which they
pretend to establish its doctrines. In order, however, to
enable him to form a correct idea of the species of lo­
gic which they have been in the habit of employing and
which they deem conclusive, and of the tone of mind with
which they prosecute the investigation of subjects where
nothing but the exercise of consummate prudence can se­
cure from error, we shall conclude by offering one or two
specimens of their mode of reasoning. We shall pass over
the numerous stories; each more ridiculous than the preced­
ing, of irresistible natural inclinations to wander from place
to place, to commit murder, theft, infanticide, and other
crimes, without any assignable object. We shall refrain from
criticising the wonderful accounts of people who were insane
on one side of the head only, and observed their insanity with
the other side, and of others who heard angels sing, and
devils roar, only on one side; nor shall we stop to investi­
gate the curious case of the woman who declared in a court
of justice, when accused of having destroyed her infant,
that her sole motive for becoming pregnant was that she
might enjoy the exquisite pleasure of killing her own child.
Neither shall we venture to involve ourselves in that meta­
physical labyrinth of the thirty-five special faculties into
which they pretend to have analyzed the human soul; but
content ourselves with examining, what in fact alone de­
serves examination, the sort of evidence brought forward to
establish the relation between each faculty and a particular
defined portion of the brain. We shall take, for this pur­
pose, the following passage, which may be esteemed a fair
specimen of the whole.
“ Dr. Gall examined the head of a woman at Vienna who
was known as a model of friendship. She suffered different
changes of fortune ; she became alternately rich and poor;
but was attached to her former friends. Gall found the
part of her head situated upward and outward from the or­
gan of philoprogenitiveness, very prominent, and called it
the organ of friendship. Our observations are not multi­
plied enough to enable us to decide positively on this or­
gan ; yet its seat appears to be more than probable. It
must be inferiorly, because this faculty exists in the lower
animals, and is a propensity. For this reason it belongs to
their region of the head; and according to its mimical signs,
and the motions of the head when it is active, it lies later­
REASONING EMPLOYED BY PHRENOLOGISTS. 6 7
68 PHRENOLOGY*
ally and backward.” Dr. Spurzheim, it is obvious, here
reasons in a circle; for he assumes as true the thing to be
proved, namely, that faculties of a certain class reside in a
certain department of the head, and then applies it to esta­
blish the very proof on which the proposition itself ought to
have rested. In order to render intelligible the latter part
of his argument, the reader should be informed that Drs.
Gall and Spurzheim believe, that, when any faculty of the
mind is strongly excited, the action of the corresponding
organ in the brain tends to raise that part of the head in
which it is situated; so that the person has a propensity to
lay his finger upon the nearest external part of the head,
or sometimes to apply his hand to it, either to cool it when
too hot, or to warm it when too cold, and that he is occa­
sionally prompted to rub it in order to excite it when too
sluggish. Thus, when we endeavour to • collect a name
or a word, we unconsciously slap our foreheads, or rub the
skin a little above the eyes, or perhaps higher still, just
where the appropriate organ of memory is situated, that it
may awake and exercise its peculiar faculty. When em­
barrassed by any difficulty, we gently stimulate in like man­
ner, the organ of contrivance, by scratching the head at the
part under which is the seat of constructiveness. The timid
man scratches his head on the organ of courage behind his
ear, as if he tried to rouse the feeble organ into activity. A
proud man holds his head erect uponhis shoulders, and raises
himself upon his toes, for no other reason than because the
organ of the sentiment lies at the very top of the head, and
is therefore elevated by the action. A sense of danger, or
the necessity of circumspection, leads all animals, man not
excepted, to stretch their necks forwards horizontally, thus
presenting the broad extent of that organ, as it were, in
front. Devotion raises the head gently $and our adorations
are all directed upwards, not because we regard the Deity
as above, but because the organ of adoration is situated in
the centre of the upper part of the head. When busied in
deep contemplation, we cover the whole forehead with our
hands, as it is there that the reflecting faculties are lodged;
and, accordingly, when we reproach any one for his want of
reflection, we put our hand to this part of the head; and
exclaim, “ he wants it here.” If we try to recollect a date,
we put into action the organ of time, which being situated
over the eyebrows, and a little to one side, occasions an in­
voluntary movement of the eyes upwards and towards the
temples. In beating time to a musical air, we make the
head oscillate from side to side, because the organs of tone
as well as of time, being situated on each side, and being
alternately in action, occasion these gesticulations. Sterne
excelled in wit: and we find him represented in all his por­
traits with his head leaning on his hand, the fore-finger of
which is placed on a particular part of the forehead. Dr.
Spurzheim considers this as one of the proofs that the organ
of wit occupies that very spot.
With minds capable of allowing any weight to such ob­
servations and imbued with such notions of the nature of
philosophical induction, as are implied by the grave admis­
sion of such frivolous arguments as these, the investigation
of the laws of nature must be an easy and a delightful task.
With the abundant and all-powerful resources, which their
indulgent method of reasoning is ever ready to supply, all
difficulties may be smoothed away, all chasms immediately
filled up, and all obstacles made to vanish the moment they
arise. We need not be under any embarrassment at meeting
with a skull exhibiting a particular prominence, although the
REASONING EMPLOYED BY PHRENOLOGISTS. 6 9
70 PHRENOLOGY.
faculty which should correspond to it be deficient. Doubt­
less the individual must have been strongly gifted by na­
ture with this faculty, but education has long ago taught him
to disguise or suppress its manifestations. It exists, perhaps,
unknown to the person himself, and wants only a proper oc­
casion for its being exhibited 5 or more probably the other
faculties, having received a greater proportional develope-
ment, have overpowered and prevented it from appearing.
If we find, on the contrary, a strongly marked faculty, with­
out the corresponding shape of the head, we may still con­
clude that the organ exists notwithstanding; for the neigh­
bouring ‘organs, having received a greater extension, may
have pushed it from its true place, or have grown up around
it, and have concealed it from vulgar observation. Its not
having been recognised is only a proof of want of skill in
the observer ; no doubt, it would easily hi A been discover­
ed by the eye or hand of a true believer, and experienced
cranioscopist; for it should be recollected that the differ­
ences are often very minute, and require the tactus eruditus
for their detection. Besides, how can we be certain that
the excellence of the faculty in question is not of an artifi­
cial or relative kind, and that it results from education, or
the weakness of opposite faculties, rather than from nature ?
If all these expedients should fail us, we have nothing to do
but to plunge into the depths of metaphysics, to refine and
make subtle distinctions, or loosen the signification of a
few words, till we have entangled ourselves in a wood, and
lost sight of the real difficulty that had perplexed us. Thus
will the theory be freed from all exceptions, and the induc­
tion be rendered complete. With such a convenient logic,
and accommodating principles of philosophizing, it would
be easy to prove any thing. We suspect, however, that on
that very account, they will be rejected as having proved
nothing.
REPLY TO CRITICISMS. 71
We have here re-printed the Essay oh this subject which
originally appeared under the head of Cr a n io s c o p y , in the
Supplement to the Sixth Edition of the Encylopaedia Bri-
tannica. We have done so because we have not seen any
reason to alter our views. Since the year 1818, when that
essay was written, replies have been attempted to»some of
our strictures; particularly by Mr. George Combe, in his
“Essays on Phrenology, and on the objections made against
it? Edinburgh, 1819; and by Dr. Andrew Combe, in the
Phrenological Journal. Although the conductors of this
Journal have admitted that our Article was uregarded in
the South as the most formidable attack Phrenology ever
had to sustain,” 1 and have in so far paid us a compliment,
we deem it unnecessary to answer, otherwise than very
generally, their comments on the reasonings contained in
it; because most of those comments are founded on a mis­
conception of the scope of our arguments. When, for in­
stance, we attempted to show, that, in establishing a philo­
sophical principle, mere analogies ought not to«be esteemed
as equivalent to proofs, and when we maintained that they
are still less to be relied on, when other analogies, of a
contrary tendency, can be adduced on the other side of the
question, we are represented by Dr. Combe as building our
arguments on analogy, the very principle ofwhich we were
1 Phrenological Journal, i. 166.
72 PHRENOLOGY.
pointing out the fallacy, and repudiating the authority; and
we are even charged with being guilty of the strange incon­
sistency of endeavouring to “ refute direct inductive evi­
dence, by that drawn from analogy.” 1 Any reader who
had paid the least attention to the train of reasoning we em­
ployed, must have perceived that our reasoning was dia­
metrically the reverse of that which is imputed to us$ and
that we had even guarded against the possibility of mis­
take by the sentence concluding with the words, “ all such
reasonings a p r io r i.......must be completely illusory.”
By the help of a mis-quotation, in which the qualifying
adverb “ nearly” is omitted, we are represented as having
asserted, that the anatomy of the brain “ will suit any phy­
siological system equally well.” 2 All the notions we can form
of the nature of mental operations are so completely and es­
sentially different from any of the affectii A of which we can
conceive matter to be capable, that it is utterly impossible
for us to understand the mode in which a connexion has been
established between them; or to imagine any physical struc­
ture whatsoever, which shall, in the remotest manner, cor­
respondwith the metaphysical constitution ofthe soul. This,
however, we may confidently assert, that amongst all the hy­
potheseswhich havebeen propounded respecting the corres­
pondence between the corporeal instruments of the mind,
andthe mental faculties themselves,the onewhich istheleast
in accordance with the actual structure of the brain, is that
devised by the phrenologists. Let a person, unacquainted
with the anatomy of that organ, be shown the phrenological
map of the cerebral regions, and let him be told, that to each
corresponding subjacent portion of the brain is ascribed, as
1 Phrenological Journal, i. 168,169* 2 lb . i. 166.
REPLY TO CRITICISMS. 7 3
to a separate organ, a certain special mental function; one
set of these organs being appropriated to the establishment
of certain definite propensities, whilst another set gives rise
respectively to various sentiments, and a third confers each
its peculiar intellectual power; with what immeasurable sur­
prise, on lifting up the bony covering which had concealed
this expected assemblage of well defined organs, would he
behold a uniform massofpulpy substance, divided by furrows
only, into serpentine but continuous convolutions, bearing
no conformity or even similitude to the notions which his
previous instructions had led him to form of distinct masses,
divided from each other in accordancewith their phrenologi­
cal functions. Each of these pretended organs, far from
being isolated in its structure, as its alleged isolated func­
tions would imply, from the neighbouring parts, is seen to
pass on, without visible boundary, to the next, by a conti­
nuity of cerebral substance. Turning round upon his in­
structor, would he not complain of being misled by him;
and would he not require him to explain what intermediate
function he can ascribe to those portions of the same con­
volution which occupy an intermediate place between two
organs, to which he has already assigned functions utterly
heterogeneous with one another ? What lucid ideas can he
convey of a function intermediate between benevolence and
im itation, between ideality and acquisitiveness, between
cautiousness and adhesiveness, or between self-esteem wad
concentrativeness or inhabitiveness, of which the respec­
tive organs are not merely contiguous, but pass insensibly
into one another; and what is the curious and hitherto non­
descript office that he will assign to those portions of the
brainwhich occupy the central space at the junction ofquin­
tuple groups oforgans, such as those of ideality, acquisitive­
74 PHRENOLOGY.
ness, constructiveness, tune, and w it, all of which, though
separated by the fancy of the phrenologist, have been by
natureamalgamated into onecontinuous mass, undistinguish*
able by any visible lines of demarcation ?
Notcontent withexpressinghisdissatisfactionatour failing
to perceive the accordance between the structure of the hu­
man brain and the doctrines of phrenology, Dr. Combe ex­
tends hiscensure toourobjection as tothe evidence which ob­
servations on loweranimals are supposed to afford in their fa­
vour ; and to our assertion, that in the construction of their
system “ muchwasmade to hinge ” onfactsderivedfromcom­
parative anatomy. That the founders of the system placed
great reliance on this kind of evidence, is a proposition suffi­
ciently borne out by the testimonyof Sir George Mackenzie,
who, when speaking of inhabitiveness, remarks, “ it is chiefly
from observation on the lower animals tL4 Dr. Spurzheim
seems to consider it as certain, that there is such a faculty in
man.” 1 The fallacy of the reasoning by which comparative
anatomy has been pressed into the service ofphrenology, has
been so ably exposed by Dr. Prichard, in his Treatise on
Insanity, that we shall beg leave to borrow from that work
the followingjudiciousremarks. “ The chiefpeculiarity/ ’ob­
serves Dr. Prichard, “ of Dr. Gall's psychologicaltheory, was
the attempt to draw a parallel between the animal qualities
displayed by the lower animals and the individual varieties
discovered among men.” He proceeded “ on the principle,
that the innate or original faculties are common to man and
the lower tribes of animals, to those at least which bear to
man a general analogy in their organization, and especially
in the structure of their nervous system; and sought for
1Illustrations o f Phrenology, p. 92.
REPLY TO CRITICISMS. 75
analogies in physical phenomena between the brute tribes,
tracing in them the rudiments of those properties which,
taken collectively, and in their highest degree of develope-
ment, form the human character, and which, in lower de­
grees and various relations, constitute the distinctive nature
of each of the inferior kinds. The attempt was ingenious,
and seemed to hold out the prospect of discovering curious
and interesting relations; but it is necessary, before em­
barking in the inquiry, to determine whether the analogies
are real or apparent; for it has been tacitly assumed that
the supposed distinction between instinct and reason is un­
real, and that the active principles are of the same kind in
the higher and lower beings of the creation.” “ Perhaps
metaphysical writers have been mistaken in laying down
so broad a line of difference as they have established. We
must, then, either elevate the brutes, or lower the superiori­
ty of mankind. Shall we say, after tracing the operations of
a constructiveinstinctsowonderfullydisplayed bythebeaver,
or in the cells in which the bee lays up his honey, that an
impulse to action precisely similar gave origin to the pyra­
mids of Egypt, or to the building of Constantinople ? Shall
we venture to affirmthat the tunnel under the Thames owes
its existence to a burrowing propensity resembling that of
the rabbit or the mole ? Shall we conclude that Parry and
Franklin sought the regions of the north, impelled by the
instinct of the migratory rat; and that Magellan and De Ga­
ma traversed the Southern Oceans directed by an influence
analogous to that which moves the flight of swallows ? Or
may we, with greater probability, determine that the lower
tribes act under the guidance, not of blind instinct, but of
enlightened reason; that metaphysicians were mistaken
when they laid down the principle, 6Deus est anima bru-
76 FHBENOIiOGT*
torum,’ that the birds of passage have some acquaintance
with physical geography, and know the quarter where tro­
pical warmth exists and genial breezes blow; that the bee
has studied the exact sciences, and knows by calculation
the form most a&visable for its cells ? In short, that there
is a real analogy and correspondence between the mental
faculties of man and the physical endowments of those crea­
tures whom he conceitedly regards as his inferiors? If either
of these positions can be maintained, there will be a sound
foundation for the comparative pyschologyof Dr. Galland his
followers; but if they should be rejected as improbable, we
must admit that the analogies pointed out are remote, the
things compared are different in kind, they agree only in ex­
ternal appearances; and we shall be brought to the conclu­
sion that it has pleased the Author of nature to bring about
corresponding results in the rational afc» Irrational depart­
ments of the creation, by very different means.”
“ If the evidence,” continues Dr. Prichard, “ brought in
support of the organological system depends so entirely on
universal coincidence between psychical properties and cor­
responding varieties in the structure of the nervous fabric,
it must be important to determine whether there are any
departments of the animal kingdom in which instincts and
motive habitudes, and an entire psychical nature are dis­
played analogous to those of vertebrated animals, while yet
in these departments there is no structure which can be said
to bear resemblance to the complicated cerebral system of
the so termed higher animals. In all the vertebrated kinds,
the organization of the nervous fabric is in one principle,
and the same fundamental type, with different degrees ofde-
velopement, is traced in man and all other mammifers, in
birds, reptiles, and fishes; but here the resemblance ter-
REPLY TO CRITICISMS* 77
ininates, and the nervous system of molluscous animals and
insects presented butfew and remote analogies to thatwhich
belongs to the first great branch of the animal creation. It
is, indeed, to be presumed that the nervous system, taken as
a whole, fulfils, in the tribes last mentionedb^the same^offices
as in those animals who have it enclosed in a bony case. Still,
nothing exists at all resembling the complicated formation
of a brain, with its lobes and convolutions. It is so much the
more surprising to find the higher instincts, which had al­
most disappearedin fishes,displaythemselveswith newsplen­
dour and variety in the brainless insects; creatures which,
in the wonderful imitations of intelligence that govern their
motive habits, rival, ifthey do not even exceed, the sagaci­
ty of the animals which most approximate to man.”
“ Now, if it should be established, that all those properties
of animal life, approximating to intelligence, or bearing ana­
logies so striking to the manifestations of mind, which, in
one great division of the animal kingdom are assumed to
be essentially connected with, and depending on, a parti­
cular system of organization, exist in another department,
and display themselves in all the same various profusion,
while the creatures belonging to this latter department are
yet destitute of that system of organization, and of any thing
that bears the resemblance to it, the advocates of Phreno­
logy will be obliged to abandon that broad ground on which
they have attempted to fortify their position. Within the
more confined field which the vertebr&ted tribes alone pre­
sent, it will be more easy to maintain such an assumed con­
nexion of physical properties with a peculiar structure; or,
rather, it is more difficult to disprove it when assumed. The
general analogy which prevails throughout these tribes in
the organization of their cerebral and nervous system, af­
78 PH&ENOltOGT•
fords no room for so decisive a contradiction to the relation
which the phrenologists would establish. Yet even within
this field great and striking facts display themselves which
are adverse to the hypothesis. Birds and reptiles, as Jacobi
has observed, are nearly, if not wholly destitute of many
cerebral parts, which in mammifers are held as of high im­
portance for the manifestation of psychical properties, and
yet they display psychical phenomena similar to those of
mammifers. Whenever an undoubted and tangible fact can
be laid hold of in the different proportional developement
ofcerebral parts, which can be brought into comparisonwith
the relative differences of animal instinct, or of psychical
properties in general, there is, if I am not mistaken, a man­
ifest failure of correspondence between the two series of
observations. This has been shown by Rudolphi in a strik­
ing manner, with respect to the cerebe $n. The cerebel­
lum, as this writer has observed, is found to lessen in its
proportional developement as we descend in the scale of or­
ganized beings, without any corresponding diminution, and
even with an increase of the propensity which Gall connects
with it. How remarkably powerful is this instinct in birds;
and yet how small is the cerebellum in the feathered tribes
compared with its size in mammifers, and even in the lat­
ter, when we consider the magnitude which it attains in the
human species ? We observe those tribes in which the ce­
rebellum nearly or entirely ceases to exist, obeying, never­
theless, the impulsion of instinct as blindly or devotedly as
other kinds which have the organ in question remarkably
developed. When we consider the great amplitude which
the cerebellum attains in man, in comparison with its size
in lower animals, we are obliged, if we really attach any
importance to such a system of correspondence, to acknow­
ledge some relation between this circumstance and the tran-
scendant superiority of the human intellect, compared with
the psychical powers of brutes.”
“ The facts which suggest themselves as we follow these
trains of reflection, are scarcely to be reconciled with the
phrenological theory : they seem, in the first place, to show,
that the relations which in it are assumed to prevail through
all nature are subject to vast exceptions ; and as one great
proof of the doctrine is the assumed universality of such
relations,o r the endowment of psychical properties in coex­
tension with certain peculiarities of structure in cerebral
parts, the exceptions endanger at least the outworks of the
whole doctrine. When, in a more limited survey, we con­
fine our observation to the sphere of vertebrated animals,
and discover that variations in psychical phenomena take
plaice without any evidence of corresponding changes in the
structure of cerebral parts, and that these changes, on the
other hand, occur without such alterations as we are led to
anticipate in psychical properties, the system of organology
seems to be shaken to its very centre.” 1
Whilst the defenders of phrenology have, on the one
hand, misrepresented the minor points of our argument, they
have, on the other, disguised from their readers that it is
on the insufficiency of the evidence adduced in support of
their doctrine, that we rest our main objection to its credi­
bility. We maintain, that they have taken only a one-sid­
ed view of what nature presents to our observation ; that
they have paid attention to those facts alone, which are con­
firmatory of phrenology, and shut their eyes to those which
oppose it. In order to establish what they consider as the
TESTIMONY ADVERSE TO PHRENOLOGY. 7 9
1 Treatise on Insanity, p. 465 to 474*
80 p h r e n o l o g y .
rule, they have collected together all the instances in its fa­
vour, and have passed over or suppressed all the exceptions.
What we assert is, that more enlarged inquiry, conducted
with a more entire devotion to the cause of truth, anda scru­
pulous rejection of error, would have shewn the latter to he
at least equal, if not superiorin number to the former. Our
own observations, as far as we have pursued them, have led
us to this conclusion; and it was on the result of thes^ ob­
servations that our scepticism was principally founded. So
frequent, indeed, are the exceptions, that even the founders
of the system, Drs. Gall and Spurzheim themselves^on ap­
plying it practically, committed, as is well known, very glar­
ing mistakes ; giving frequently the most false judgments
of the characters of various individuals. Have these mis­
takes, we may ask, been any where recorded bv the phreno­
logists, and candidly set off against the instauoes in confir­
mation of their sagacity ? What avails their collections of
thousands of examples of coincidences, when the perhaps
equallynumerous instances of discordanceareexcluded from
the catalogue ? The fact, that the brain of Cuvier was of un­
usual magnitude, has been triumphantly proclaimed in all
the publications on phrenology; but we are not aware that
any phrenologist has brought forward the equally well-cer­
tified fact, that the brain of Sir Walter Scott was found on
examination to be “ not large.” 1
In like manner, a long catalogue of persons avowing their
belief in plirenology, including many men of eminent talents
and extensive knowledge, has been paradedbefore the pub­
lic •
, but we have not yet seen any counter list of unbeliev­
ers prepared with the view of ascertaining, in a science pro­
1 L ife o f S tr W riter Scott, by Lockhart, vol. vii. p. 305, note.
TESTIMONY ADVERSE TO PHRENOLOGY• 81
fessedly of pure observation, on which side the weight of
authorities preponderates* The class of men who, from the
nature of their pursuits, are perhaps best qualified to form
a correct judgment in matters of this nature, are the mem­
bers of the medical profession; yet how inconsiderable,
compared with the total number, is the proportion of those
belonging to that profession who, according to Mr. Combe’s
catalogue, have given in their adhesion. Sculptors, again,
compose another class of men whose studies lead them more
especially to the most minute andaccurate knowledge ofthe
externaLform ofthe humanhead; yet amongst the manywho
are at present engaged in the active exercise oftheir noble
art, Mr. Combe has been able to bring forward the name
of only one solitary individual as lending a countenance to
phrenology.
“ It is not enough,” as Dr. Prichard veryjustly observes,
“ to have a few chosen coincidences brought forward by
zealous partisans, who go about in search of facts to sup­
port their doctrine, and pass by, or really cannot perceive
the evidence that ought to be placed in the opposite scale.
The principles ofthe system ought to be applicable in every
instance. The phrenologists, however, aware of numerous
and striking exceptions, elude their evidence by asserting,
that when a certain portion of the cranium and of the brain
is greatly developed, while the faculty there lodged has
never been remarkablydistinguished, it nevertheless existed
naturally, though the innate talent, for want of proper cul­
tivation, has never been displayed; the predominant or­
ganic power was never discovered by the owner, though,
according to the principles of the doctrine, with this organic
power a proportional impulse to exertion, or an instinctive
energyiscombined,whichcommunicatesofitselfastrongand
82 *HKENOLOGT.
irresistible tendency to particular pursuits. When, again,
a strongly marked propensity, or a decided talent has been
manifested without any corresponding amplitude of struc­
ture, it is in like manner pleaded, that by sedulous exercise
and culture, a natural deficiency has been overcome. Thus
the phrenologist avails himself of a double method of elu­
sion ; his position, like the cave of Philoctetcs, affords him
an escape on either side; and in one direction or another
he contrives to baffle all the address of his opponents.
“ If, however, the testimony of facts in a great scale
should be found adverse to the alleged coincidences, or to
the correspondence of given mental equalities with certain
conditions of the brain, phrenology will not continue to
make proselytes, and it will be ultimately discarded as an
hypothesis without foundation. At pres|nt, most inquisi­
tive persons seem to be in doubt on this subject, and to be
looking out for evidence. I have taken every opportunity
that has occurred to me for many years of making inqui­
ries of persons who had a great field of observation within
their reach, what had been the result of their experience
on this subject. Many of the persons have been physicians,
who were superintendants of extensive lunatic establish­
ments. Some of them had been men who had addicted
themselves to the study ofphrenology, and were predisposed
to imbibe the opinions of its authors; some have been per­
sons distinguished by their researches in the anatomy and
physiology of the brain and nervous system. Among these
I do not remember to have found one who could say that
his own observation had afforded any evidence favourable
to the doctrine. Yet we should imagine, that a man who
lives amidsthundreds of monomaniacs must have constantly
before his eyes facts so obvious that he could not be misr
TESTIMONY ADVERSE TO PHRENOLOGY. 83
taken in their bearing. Some hundreds, and even thousands
of such persons have passed a part of their lives under the
inspection of M. Esquirol, who possesses most extensive re­
sources for elucidating almost every subject connected with
the history of mental diseases, and has neglected no.in-
quiry which could further the attainment of that object.
The result of his observations will be allowed to be of some
weight on the decision of this question, in which the appeal
is principally to facts of the precise description of those with
which he has been chiefly conversant. At his establishment
at Ivry he has a large assemblage of crania and casts from
the heads of lunatics, collected byhim duringthe long course
of his attendance at the Salpetriere, and at the Royal Hos­
pital at Charenton, which is under his superintendance.
While inspecting this collection, I was assured by M. Es­
quirol, that the testimony of his experience is entirely ad­
verse to the doctrine of the phrenologists; it has convinced
him that there is no foundation whatever in facts for the
system of correspondences which they lay down between
given measurements of the head and the existence of par­
ticular mental endowments. This observation of M. Es­
quirol was made in the presence of M. Mitivie, physician
to the Salpetriere, and received his assent and confirmation.
M. Foville, physician to the extensive lunatic asylum at St.
Yon, gave me a similar assurance. There are few indi­
viduals in Europe whose sphere of observation has been so
extensive as that of M. Esquirol and M. Foville, and cer-
tainly there are none whose science and habits of observa­
tion better qualify them to be witnesses in such a subject
of inquiry; but testimonies to the same result may be col­
lected from unbiassed witnesses, whose evidence taken col­
lectively may have nearly equal weight. Among these there
84 PHBENOLOG?.
are men unscientific) though capable of correct and unpre­
judiced observation) as well as anatomists and physiologists*
In the number of the latter is Rudolphi, who declares that
he has examined many hundreds of brains without finding
any thing that appeared to him favourable to the phrenolo­
gical theory ”l
The mode in which Dr. Combe evades the force of the
strong testimony here adduced, is quite characteristic of the
disposition to be found amongst confirmed phrenologists, of
resolutely rejecting all evidence that militates against the
system they have adopted. Thus, he says, in reference to
the passage we have just quoted, “ IfDr. Prichard believes
that the intelligent and benevolent Esquirol, is that person,”
(namely, one “ competent to form a judgment on the sub­
ject,”) and if his collection of crania and r^Bts be the hostile
evidence which is relied on, this only proves, in a forcible
manner, that Dr. Prichard is himselfnot competent tojudge,
or that he has not taken time either to examine the collec­
tion ofcrania, or to ascertain the competency of Esquirol and
Metivie, to decide on the merits of the question on which
they volunteered an opinion.” 2 We cannot help remark­
ing here, that, on another occasion, when criticising the sug­
gestion we threw out, in the Essay on Cranioscopy, of the
propriety of inquiring into the talents and qualifications of
observers before admitting the truth of the facts received on
their testimony, a very different language was held. “ When
they”(the advocatesofphrenology) “ affirm that the subjects
of observation are patent to the whole world, who have eyes
to see, and understandings to comprehend; andwhen they
say, compare manifestations with cerebral developement,and
1 Treatise on Insanity, pp. 476, 477.
* Phrenological Journal, viii* p. 654.
TESTIMONY EVADED BY PHRENOLOGISTS, 85
you are at the bottom of the problem yourself; what need
for inquiry into their talents and qualifications to observe ?”
“ When Gay Lussac hears that SirHumphry Davy has made
a discoveryin chemistry, and reads Sir Humphry’s statement
of the way in which it was made, does he begin by inquir­
ing first, whether it be possible to make the discovery at all,
seeing natural substances are <so changed and modified,
exalted and subdued’ by a multitude of powerful causes ?
And, after settling this point, does he, in the second place,
proceed to inquire into Sir Humphry Davy’s talents and qua­
lifications as a chemist, and into his capacity to make the
discovery, and then believe it, or not, according to the result
of this investigation ? No manwho knows the first rudiments
of philosophy would follow so absurd and preposterous a
course. What should we think of Gay Lussac’s refutation
of Sir Humphry’s discovery, founded on a metaphysical in­
quiry into the possibility of making it, and into the ‘talents
and qualifications’ of the discoverer? We should pity him
for his ignorance of the rudiments of philosophy.” 1
This happy talent, possessed by the champions qfphreno­
logy, of shaping their course either one way or the oppo­
site, according as it may suit the convenience of the occa­
sion, enables them, at one time, to proclaim, that the evi­
dences of their science are palpable and demonstrative, that
the field of nature is open to all inquirers, that “ every one
who has eyes may see” and judge for himself; and at ano­
ther, when such judgment is against them, they can turn
round, and allege that in order to arrive at the truth a pecu­
liar discretion and tact, acquired by long experience and
careful appreciation of minute and hair-breadth differences
1 Essays on Phrenology, p. 7L
86 PHRENOLOGY.
of size is necessary. They can then declare that the ob­
server who has not arrived at the same conclusions as them­
selves, is doubtless incompetent to the task he has attempt­
ed ; and that his testimony, being of no value, ought to be
wholly set aside.
Let it be borne in mind, then, by the practical inquirer
into the truth of phrenology, that he will not be esteemed
qualified to verify its doctrines,unless he be previouslydeep­
ly versed in the new system of psychology, can assign to
each of the thirty-five special and primary faculties of the
soul its sphere of operation, and has acquired a readiness in
unravelling their multifarious combinations, so as to analyze,
by this subtile metaphysical chemistry, all human qualities
into their proximate and ultimate elements, refer all ac­
tions to their proper innate impulses, and assign the propor­
tions of the various ingredients which are n ied up in the
formation of the character of each individual. No one is
competent to excel in this new branch of philosophy who
doubts the possibility ofappreciating the intensities ofmoral
or intellectual qualities by geometrical measurements, on
scales divided into tenths and hundredths of inches. The
young and ardent phrenologist, who after having applied his
callipers to the skull subjected to his examination, and taken
a note of the dimensions of each of the thirty-five organs,
proceeds to verify his observations by comparing them with
the character of the possessor of those organs, will never
fail to meet with wonderful coincidences, sufficient to give
him the greatest satisfaction, and confirm him in the per­
suasion that he possesses the real key to the secrets of nature
in the hitherto recondite science of mental philosophy. A
moderate share of dexterity in reconciling apparent discre­
pancies will suffice to ensure a preponderance offavourable
PROCESS OF VERIFICATION. 87
-evidence; since, fortunately,there have been provided inthe
brain different organs, sometimes of similar and sometimes
of opposite properties, capable, by a little adjustment ofplus
or minus on either side of the equation, of furnishing the
requisite degrees of the mental quality sought for, and of
thus solving every psychological problem. We shall sup­
pose, for instance, that he is inspecting the head of a person
known to have given credit to the prophecies of a weather
almanack; he finds, on reference to the “ system of phre­
nology,” that a belief in astrology is the offspring of No. 16,
that is, ideality ; so that if this organ happen to be sufficient­
ly large, the phenomenon is at once accounted for. But if
it be not, our phrenologist will have another chance; for he
will probably discover it to arise fromthe dimensions of No.
15, which inspires hope, the source of thepropensity to ere-
dulity. Habitual irresolution may result either from the
magnitude of No. 12, or the diminutiveness of No. 18;
thus affording very great convenience for making our ob­
servations of the character square with those of the dimen­
sions of the organs, and vice versa. If, again, the magni­
tude of the organ of combativeness accord with the mani­
festations of pugnacity given by the individual, it is well,
and we need inquire no farther, but set it down at once
as an irrefragable proof of the accuracy of phrenological
determinations. Should the correspondence, however,
not prove satisfactory, the organ being large for instance,
and the manifestation small, we have then further to ex­
amine the dimensions of the organ of caution, the influ­
ence of which is to moderate and check the operation ofthe
former; and we shall perhaps find this organ sufficiently
large to account for the phenomenon. Both these organs
may be large, or both small, or the first may be small and
88 PHRENOLOGY.
the second large, or the converse; and other modifications
ofaction may result if either one or both be only of moder­
ate size, allowing great latitude of choice in the assign­
ment ofmotives. Should we be so unfortunate as to exhaust
all the combinations without meeting with the success we
desire, there is still an abundance of auxiliary faculties of
which we may avail ourselves with advantage. If we were
to explain the fact of the individual in question having ac­
cepted a challenge, he might have been inspired by comba­
tiveness, whose voice was “ still for war,” or goaded on by
destructiveness, to fight that he might destroy;firm ness may
have urged him to persevere by the consideration that he
had previously resolved it, and concentrativeness, by rivet-
ting his attention to the subject, may have screwed his cour­
age to the sticking place; or he may have been prompted
by im itation to fdllow the example, or by ufarobation to
gain the applause of his friends. We have also to take into
the account the countervailing influence of faculties which
are pulling in the opposite direction, and qualifyingthe com­
bined powersof the formerincentives: And shouldcautious­
ness not be in sufficient force,we are to consider the power of
conscientiousness, which preaches forbearance, meekness,
and forgiveness; of veneration which appeals to the high
authority of religion and of law; of benevolence restraining
the hand from inflicting pain and death ; of approbation,
who qualifies her sanction by raising other voices condem­
natory ofthe deed; and last, though not least, the love o f
life which recoils with instinctive dread from the possible
catastrophe. Drawing, then, a diagram ofall these compo­
nent moral forces, in their proper directions, and suitable
proportions, it will not be very difficult to obtain by this
artificial dynamico-phrenological process, the exact result­
PROCESS OF VERIFICATION. 89
ant which corresponds with the actual fact to be explained.
Lest it should be imagined that the above description is
a caricature of the new method ofphilosophizing, so admir­
ably calculated to establish the truths of phrenology, we
shall beg to quote the following passage from Sir George
Mackenzie’s Illustrations as an example of this satisfactory
process of ratiocinatien.
“ In discussing the conjectured faculty of inhabitiveness
with Mr. Combe, he had the goodness to make us acquaint­
ed with a case, in which locality and inhabitiveness were
both very moderate in developement, but the propensity to
wander, as he informed us, very powerful. Dr. Spurzheim
mentions this propensity as belonging to locality, and he
states several remarkable cases in which the organ was much
developed, and the propensity strong. The case referred to
by Mr. Combe was, on this account, interesting; and we
will state the result of our inquiries into the particulars, for
the purpose~of giving an example of the caution with which
we ought to receive the description of any case brought in
opposition, since it sometimes appears to be necessary even
among friends.
“ The young man to whose case we refer, had a very
strong desire to adopt a seafaring life, contrary to the wishes
of his friends. It occurred to them, that a voyage up the
Baltic, during the stormy months of October and Novem­
ber, might have the effect of giving him a disgust to the
profession for which he showed so ardent a desire. He
suffered so many privations and hardships, that he yielded
to the wishes of his friends, although the desire to goto sea
continued as strong as ever. On proposing a few questions,
we found that the propensity was confined to being at sea ;
that this propensity did not originate in a desire to wander;
90 PHRENOLOGY.
for neither travelling on land, nor mere change of place,
would have gratified the propensity. At the same time,
the person referred to declared, that regular voyages to the
same place would not have satisfied him. The propensity
had haunted him as long as he could remember any thing.
Being anxious himself to contribute to the unravelling of
what appeared mysterious and irreconcilable to the system,
he stated that he used to go once or twice a-day to examine
the mechanism and rigging of ships in Leith harbour, an
employment of which he was passionately fond ; and long
before he commencedhis trial voyage, hehad become familiar
with the names and uses of every part of a ship, and ofthe
rigging. He was fond of machinery, and has often amused
himself by making models of ships; and his mechanical
turn was so strong, that he had constructed a model of ma­
chinery, by which a ship’s motion may be applied to work
the pumps. This mechanical propensity, and his early at­
tachment to naval machines, together withfirm ness, appear
to us to have given rise to his desire for a sea-faring life.
Courage might also have prompted his wish to enter the
navy. Thus the supposed propensity to wander appeared
not to exist; and it was found that a mechanical genius,
an early attachment1 to the mechanism of a ship, persevere
ance, courage, and probably also love of approbation, or
ambition, and ideality, all of which were well developed
in the individual referred to, combined to inspire the desire
to enter the navy.” (Illustrations o fPhrenology, p. 170-J
It is to be lamented that, at the period when this elabor­
ate investigation was undertaken, the organ of wonder had
not yet been made; for as one of the functions of this or-
1 ‘ Dr. Spurzheim has shown, that the faculty of attachment ex.
tends its influence to inanimate things, as well as to animate beings.”
INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION. 91
gan, according to Mr. Combe, is to “ incite young men to
chuse the sea as a profession,” much light would have been
thrown upon the object of the inquiry by a critical examina­
tion of its dimensions compared with those of all the other
organs which were taken into consideration as combining
their influence in producing the result.
There is this very remarkable peculiarity in the pursuit of
phrenology, that the student is perplexed, not with the dif­
ficulties, but with the facilities it affords for explaining every
phenomenon. The pliability of its doctrines is exemplified,
not merely in the analysis of motives, but likewise in the
influence which we are allowed to ascribe to the habitual
exercise, or education of the faculties. The observed mag­
nitudes of the respective organs indicate, not the acquired,
but the natural powers, sentiments, and propensities. Now,
the character of the individual is the joint result of the force
of natural endowments, and of the amount of moral and in­
tellectual cultivation which has been bestowed upon them.
But can we ever know enough of the minute history of the
progress of the mind of any individual to enable us to form a
correct estimate of the relative power of these two ele­
ments, which have, in the formation of each respective fa­
culty, combined their operations ? If it be true that an
organ may be the seat of a faculty varying in its activity
according to the occasions which call it forth, by what phy­
sical criterion can we distinguish the active from the dor­
mant conditions of that organ ? Unless we can draw, with
precision, these distinctions, it is evident that the ground
of all cranioscopical observation is cut from under us.
It may be indeed alleged, that at all periods of life, and
even after the bones of the skull are consolidated, the or­
gans increase or diminish in size according to the exercise
92 PHRENOLOG Y,
or disuse of the faculty associated with it, whether such
change may have been brought about by voluntary train­
ing, or by the discipline of circumstances; and certainly, if
such were the fact, our experience would repose on a much
surer basis, than if the form of the organs merely retained
the stamp originally impressed upon them by nature. But
the hypothesis that the cerebral organs acquire additional
size by the exercise of their powers was positively rejected
as untenable by Dr. Spurzheim, as we have heard him pub­
licly declare ; and it is, we believe, repudiated by the ge­
nerality of phrenologists.
We do not think it difficult to account for the progress
which phrenologyhasmade amongst thevery numerous class
of persons who find in it a source of agreeable occupation,
giving exercise to their ingenuity in discovering striking
coincidences, and gratifying their self-col ^lacency by in­
spiring them with the fancy that they are penetrating far
into the mystic regions of psychology. For the last twenty
or thirty years, various popular writers, and lecturers with­
out number, have been displaying their powers of elocution,
exercising their skill in the critical examination of deve-
lopements, and expounding the doctrines of the new phi­
losophy to wondering and admiring audiences. With all
these advantages and appliances to boot, the wonder seems
to be, not that phrenology has met with the success of
which so much boast is made, but that it has not speedily
gained the universal assent; for had it been a real science,
like that of Chemistry and other branches of Natural Phi­
losophy, founded on uniform and unquestionable evidence,
it could not have failed, by this time, of being generally
recognised as true.
When we consider that the present age is not one in
PROGRESS OP PHRENOLOGY. 93
which there is any lack of credulity, or in which a doctrine
is likely to be repudiated on the scoreofits novelty or its ex­
travagance, we cannot but smile at the complaints of perse­
cution uttered by the votaries of the system ofDr. Gall, and
at the attempts they make to set up a parallel between
its reception in this country, in these times, and that which,
two centuries ago, attended the speculations of Galileo,
and subjected him to the tyrannous cognisance of the In­
quisition ; or to establish an analogy between the dogmas
of phrenology and the discoveries of the circulation of the
blood, and of the analysis of light, which have immortalized
the names of Harvey and of Newton.
P H Y S I O L O G Y .
PHYSIOLOGY.
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL VIEWS OP PHYSIOLOGY.
(1 .) P h y s io l o g y , or the science of animal life, has been
variously defined by different writers. If the term were in­
terpreted strictly according to its etymology, it would carry
a meaning much more extensive than is warranted by com­
mon usage ;]for, being derived from <f>v<ns, nature, and
\oyos, discourse,itspropersignificationshouldbe,thescienceo f
nature. It might accordingly be understood to comprehend
inquiries in every department of nature, both animate and
inanimate ; and might indeed be regarded as synonymous
with physics, or natural philosophy, which are other ex­
pressions of corresponding import, but which at present are
themselves restricted in their meaning to a special depart­
ment of nature. There can be no doubt, indeed, that such
must originally have been the real signification of these
terms; but it is needless now to inquire by what gradual
transitions they have at length come to bear such different,
98 MY8IOLOOY.
and even in some respects, opposite significations. If we
were desirous of substituting a term which would accurately
express the idea now associated with the word physiology,
we should adopt that of biology, from ptor, life, first intro­
duced by Treviranus, who has written a German work on
this subject, which bears that title.
(2 .) Natural philosophy, or physics, is now understood
as designating that class of sciences, which have for their
object the examination of the properties of lifeless matter ;
whilst physiology, in its modern acceptation, is in like man­
ner limited to the consideration of the properties which are
peculiar to organized and living bodies. The former is con­
versant only with nature in her dead or inanimate condi­
tion ; the latter with nature endowed with life, and in all its
various forms and modifications. $
Thus mechanics, hydrostatics, and pneumatics, wholly re­
late to the general phenomena exhibited by matter in its
solid, liquid, and gaseous forms; optics, which relates to
the phenomena of light, together with electricity, magnet­
ism, and the science of heat, which regard other classes of
phenomena produced by peculiar agents, are all considered
as branches of natural philosophy. Chemistry, which is
concerned with the changes of composition in bodies, re­
sulting from the mutual action of their particles at insensi­
ble distances, ranks also with the sciences relating to the
properties of inorganic matter, and of which the assemblage
constitutes what are more correctly termed in the present
day, the physical sciences.
(3.) On the other hand, the' study of animated nature
does not admit of the same extent of subdivision. Nature
has indeed traced a broad and obvious line of demarcation
between the vegetable and the anim al kingdoms; the first
being the province of botany, the second of zoology; both
of which departments offer us a wide field of inquiry, and in­
exhaustible subjects of speculation. But it is in the animal
world, more [especially, that the busy and ever-changing
scene is calculated to awaken the most lively curiosity, and
inspire the deepest interest. The multiplied relations which
connect us with the lower animals, the obvious analogies
which subsist between them and our own species, and the
striking evidences of powder, intelligence, and benevolent
design displayed in all the phenomena they present to our
observation, confer on the study of animal life a degree of
importance which belongs to scarcely any other study.
(4.) But the foundations of all science must be laid by
drawing accurate distinctions among the objects which come
within its cognizance $ by making a strict analysis of the
ideas it comprehends, and by establishing precise definitions
of the terms it employs. As in all the other departments of
human knowledge, we can arrive at general facts, or com­
prehensive laws, only by submitting to the previous task of
ascertaining and collecting individual facts; so in natural
history we find it necessary to subdivide our labours into
that which takes cognizance of individual objects only, and
that which inquires into their more general relations with
one another. The first is properly the history, the second
the philosophy of nature ; and this distinction we may ob­
serve to run through all the branches into which the sub­
ject is divisible. It applies even to astronomy, in which the
mere physical history of the phenomena forms a preliminary
body of knowledge, yet subordinate to that higher range of
inquiry which establishes connections between these phe­
nomena, and unites them into comprehensive laws or the­
ories. Mineralogy, again, must be studied as the founds-
GENERAL VIEWS OF PHY8I0L0GY. 9 9
100 *H*siOLoar.
tion of geology; the former being the history of the actual
appearances; the latter, the theory of the series ofchanges
which have led to these observed phenomena. Thus, also,
the external forms, and more obvious habitudes of plants,
and their classifications in conformity with these forms and
properties, constitute the subjects ofbotany, properlyso call­
ed $whilst the study oftheir internal structure and economy,
with relation to the more general phenomena of vegetation,
is comprised under the head ofphytology, or the physiology
of vegetables.
(5 .) In like manner, the proper objects of Zoology are
to trace the external forms of animals, to distribute and ar­
range them in systematic order, and to record the particu­
lar facts relating to their history 5 that is, to the more ob­
vious phenomena which they present to |ir observation.
Physiology embraces a wider field of research, inquires in­
to the connexions between the phenomena, and investigates
the causes from which they spring, and the laws by which
they are governed. The zoologist is content with collect­
ing observations on the visible actions of animals, on their
peculiar habits, modes of life, and the manifestation of those
faculties with which they are respectively endowed by the
Author of nature; a pursuit which affords inexhaustible
sources of amusement, and furnishes abundant matter of
admiration and of wonder. But the physiologist aims at
far higher objects 5 and considering the external phenomena
presented by animals as lying merely at the surface, seeks
for information relative to the causes of all the facts which
are furnished to him by zoology, by examining the interior
structure of their bodies, by inquiring into the movements
of that interior mechanism, and the sources of those various
actions which give rise to all the complicated phenomenaof
GENERAL VIEWS OF PHYSIOLOGY, 101
life. An extensive and even boundless region of knowledge
opens to his view in these highly curious and interesting
subjects of research, constituting one vast science, which, al­
though considerable progress has been made in it by the la­
bours of our predecessors, is yet destined to occupy, for an
incalculable period of time, the unremitting efforts of suc­
ceeding generations.
(6 .) The phenomena of living beings have a totally dif­
ferent character from the changes which take place in in­
animate matter; and are with more difficulty subjected to
the severe analysis required by inductive philosophy. The
properties of inorganic bodies are ofa simpler and more de­
finite nature, and however variously they may be combined
in their effects, admit, in general, of a reduction to general
laws. This is most effectually accomplished by means of
experiments, varied in such a manner as to reduce each
class ofphenomena to its simplest conditions, and afterwards
combined in such a way as to allow of a comparison of their
results with the appearances presented by nature, and of
thus verifying their identity.
But it is hardly possible to pursue the same process of
investigation to any extent in the diversified phenomena of
organization. So complicated is the mechanism, and so fine
the minuter structure of animal and vegetable bodies, that
they elude the cognizance of our senses, even when assist­
ed by the utmost refinement ofoptical and mechanical art.
All that chemistry has yet achieved in disclosing to us the
properties of different species of matter, and oftheir various
combinations, falls infinitely short of that knowledge which
could enable us to follow and to understand the curious and
elaborate series of chemical changes which take place in the
interior of the living body. Far less are we competent to
102 l*nYSIOLOGY.
trace the operation of those more subtle and mysterious
principles, which are the springs of motion, and which re­
gulate the actions of the machine, and connect the whole
of its movements into one harmonious system. Judging
from their more obvious effects, indeed, these principles ap­
pear to be quite of a different nature from those which pro­
duce the phenomena of the inorganic world. The series of
changes which are exhibited by an animal or a vegetable,
from the first moment of its separate existence, through all
the stages of its growth, maturity, and decline, to the pe­
riod of its death, are far too complicated and multifarious
to admit of being reduced to one single principle, in the
same way as the movements of the heavenly bodies, for in­
stance, are reducible to the simple law of gravitation.
(7 .)Physiologists, indeed, not deterred y thesedifficulties,
which are inherent in the subject of their researches, have
in all ages attempted generalizations of this kind. They
have considered all the actions and phenomena which are
peculiar to living beings, and which differ from those exhi­
bited by the same bodies after death, as resulting from the
operation of a single principle of life. Different designa­
tions have been given to this power by different theorists;
thus, some have called it the vitalprinciple, others the spirit
o f animation, the archceus, the organicforce; and many
other appellations have been given to it, according to the
particular taste or fancy of the writer. Nothing, indeed,
can be more specious than this reference to unknown facts,
which have a manifest connexion with one another, to a
common principle of action, or in other words, to a vital
power. The only idea we can form oFlife appears to imply
the unity of such a principle. This idea, as is well remarked
by Cuvier, is suggested by the observation ofa certain class
GENERAL. VIEWS OF PHYSIOLOGY. 103
of phenomena, succeeding each other in an invariable order,
and having certain mutual relations with one another; yet
it is but a vague and indistinct idea. We are ignorant of
the nature of that link which unites the whole of these phe­
nomena ; but the existence of some such link forces itself
upon our belief, and we are compelled to give it a particu­
lar designation, and speak of it as if it were something more
than a mere fiction of the intellect.
(8 .) Those who are unaccustomed to philosophical rea­
sonings, may be, indeed, and often are, deceived by the em­
ployment of these abstract terms, and regard them as the
expressions of a simple law of nature, of the same compre­
hensive, yet definite character, as those of gravitation, co­
hesion, heat, and electricity. A more careful and profound
analysis, however, will convince us that the power inherent
in organization, upon which its infinitely diversified actions
depend, is not a simple agency, but a combination of seve­
ral powers, not only different from the physical agents which
actuate the inorganic world, but differing also very widely
amongst each other. In order to arrive at this conclusion,
however, it will be necessary to take a review of the phe­
nomena themselves, and we shall therefore defer the con­
sideration of this subject to a future chapter.
(9*) Although the peculiar nature of the phenomena
which physiology embraces has hitherto baffled all our en­
deavours to obtain results of the same general and compre-
hensive nature as those which have rewarded our efforts in
the purely physical sciences, yet ottyer resources are open
to us, capable of conducting us to a still more ample and
inviting field of inquiry. Living nature is impressed with
a character, which at once raises it to a higher order among
the objects of human intellect, and invests the science which
104 PHYSIOLOGY.
regards it with a more lofty and ennobling sentiment. Life
is peculiarly characterised by the manifestation of inten­
tion. Adaptation of means to an end is visible through­
out the whole of this animated scene. Express design is
palpably -discernible in every formation, in every arrange­
ment, in every series of changes which this vast theatre of
nature displays. Utility is the governing principle of all;
intelligence and power far exceeding the utmost stretch of
our imagination, are revealed to us in language not to be
mistaken, and carrying with it irresistible conviction. Thus,
while the sciences of inorganic matter are founded on the
relations of cause and effect, physiology takes cognizance
more especially of the relations of means to ends, which the
phenomena present to our view. Hence we obtain a new
principle of arrangement among these ph lomena $ hence
also arises a new source of interest, of a kind very superior
to that which mere physical relations can ever inspire.
( 1 0 .) The purposes to which, pursuing this new princi­
ple of arrangement, we can perceive the different structures
which compose an animal body, are subservient, are term­
ed, in the language of physiology, the functions of those
parts. Life results from the exercise of these functions,
and consists in the continued accomplishment of tlicir re­
spective objects. ■The principal object of physiology, then,
is the study of the functions of life 5 that is, the investiga­
tion of the changes occurring in the living system with re­
ference to their respective objects, and in their subservience
to the maintenance of life, and the various purposes for
which life was bestowed. We shall now proceed to take
a general review of these functions, in order to establish a
foundation for the divisions of the science we are now treat­
ing.
GENERAL VIEWS OP PHYSIOLOGY. 105
( 1 1 .) The most cursory view that we can take of the
phenomena of life will be sufficient to shew that the func­
tions to which they are referable are of different degrees of
importance with relation to the objects of life. Some are
so closely connected with these objects, that their continued
exercise is indispensable to the very existence oflife, which
would cease if they were for a moment interrupted. Others
which are less immediately concerned in the actual main­
tenance of the vital actions, are yet essential to its preser­
vation, and cannot, with safety, be suspended but for a very
short interval. Some are only occasionally called into play,
and others are so remotely useful, as to admit of lying dor­
mant for a considerable period, or even of being dispensed
with altogether. Some functions require for their perform­
ance the concurrence of others, and these, again, imply the
exercise of many more. Some are of a more isolated na­
ture, and have less connexion with the general system of
functions. By studying these relations, we are enabled to
trace a certain plan in the designs of nature, and a certain
subordination of functions sufficient to guide us in our stu­
dies, and to enable us to trace out a tolerably connected
order of subjects.
(1 2 .) It will be useful, before proceeding to the details
of the subject, to present our readers with a general sketch
of the system of the animal economy, which may serve, in­
deed, the same purpose, as a map does to a traveller, im­
parting a genera] notion of the bearings and relations of the
several objects ofinterest in the country he is about to tra­
verse. We shall, for this purpose, embrace in one view
that assemblage of functions which constitutes animal life
in its most complete and perfect form, and in the attain­
ment of its full developement.
106 PHY8IOLOGT.
(13.) All the functions of the animal economy, all the
mechanical dispositions of the system, and all the move­
ments of its parts, are subordinate to two great objects; first,
the preservation and welfare of the individual being which
they compose; and, secondly, the continuance of the race
to which it belongs. It is evident that the first great pur­
pose to be accomplished is the conferring of the powers of
sensation andperception, these being the essential attributes
of animal nature, and the characteristics which distinguish
it from the mineral or vegetable world. Next to these is
the power of voluntary motion, by which the animal is en­
abled to change its place, to procure for itself those objects
which are necessary for its subsistence or gratification, and
to repel those which are noxious or painful.
(14.) The power of being affected by external objects, or
of receiving impressions of which we are conscious, is con­
nected, in the more perfect animals, with a part of the body
having a more peculiar organization, and very remarkable
properties. It is a soft and pulpy substance, of a whitish
colour, with different shades of gray, opaque, and exhibiting
slight traces of a fibrous structure. It is termed medullary
or nervous substance. Of this substance are composed the
brain, which is a large mass of medullary matter; and also
the nerves, which have the appearance of white cords, ex­
tending from the brain to almost every other part of the
body. The nerves establish a communication between these
parts and the brain, so that impressions made upon the for­
mer, are communicated, along the nerves, and by their in­
termedium, to the brain, where they excite their appropriate
sensations, corresponding to the nature of the impression,
and to the structure of the organ that originally received it.
By what agency, or in what way affections of the brain, thus
EXTERNAL SENSES. 107
induced, are instrumental in producing sensation, or how
the sentient principle is connected with the physical consti­
tution of the brain, are subjects of which we have no know­
ledge; nor have we, in our present state, the smallest ground
of hope that-the mystery in which it is involved, will ever
be dispelled. Sufficient let it be for us that such is the fact;
and resting on this as an ultimate fact, let us proceed in our
inquiries, as to the occasions on which this power, assuming
it to exist, is called into action.
(15.) Experience shews that the impressions conveyed
by each nerve, or class of nerves, are of different kinds, for
they are capable of being readily distinguished from one
another by the percipient being whose brain receives them.
Hence he acquires a knowledge of the presence, of the si­
tuation, and of the different properties of external bodies,
which are the source of those impressions. The nature of
that power with which the nerves are endowed is such as
to convey the impressions from which this knowledge is de­
rived, from the external organ to the brain, with a velocity
that exceeds all imagination. This instantaneous transmis­
sion is evidently a provision of the highest importance both
for the welfare and preservation of the individual.
( 1 6 .) The different powers of perception, corresponding
to different qualities of external objects, constitute the ex­
ternal senses ; and each has its appropriate organ, furnish­
ed with its separate system of nerves. The skin, which is
the organ of touch, receives the largest share of nerves, as
it is evidently of the greatest consequence that the surface
of the body should receive impressions from every substance
with which it may happen to come in contact. The nerves
of the skin are also susceptible of various impressions, be­
sides those of mere impulse or resistance from solid bodies.
108 PHYSIOLOGY.
They are affected, for instance, by variations of tempera­
ture ; and when acted upon in any way that may be inju­
rious to the part impressed, or to the system generally, they
give suitable warning to the individual, by exciting a sense
ofpain. Hence he is admonished of impending evil, and
is incited to the prompt adoption of the means of avert­
ing it.
(17.) Next in importance to the sense of touch are those
of sight and of hearing ; but for the communication of dis­
tinct impressions relating to these senses, a much more re­
fined apparatus is requisite than for that of touch. The
structure of the eye is calculated to combine, upon a thin
expansion of nervous substance, the retina,the rays of light
proceeding from distant objects, so as to form a picture of
these objects, and thus convey to the mini an exact know­
ledge of the relative situation of all their parts that are
within the sphere of vision. Hence are derived the per­
ceptions of their distance and position with respect to the
observer.
(18.) In like manner are the sonorous undulations of the
air collected into a kind of focus by the structure of the
ear, and impressed upon the sensitive expansions of nervous
matter in the inner regions of the organ. Thus an impor­
tant avenue of communication is opened with the external
world, highly useful in an infinite variety of ways.
(19*) The existence and properties of various objects at
a distance are also recognized by the sense of SmeU, which
enables us to appreciate the presence of the subtle effluvia
which they emit, and which affect the atmosphere often to
a considerable distance around. The olfactory nerves are
adapted to the impressions of this kind, and are situated on
the surface of those passages destined for the transmission
TASTE— 8ENSATI0N. 109
of the air in subservience to another function hereafter to
be noticed, namely, that of respiration.
(2 0 .) The sense of Taste is exercised on the substances
employed as aliment, and has its seat at the entrance of the
passages appropriated to the reception of food, and which
are subservient to another class of functions presently to be
described.
(2 1 .) The faculty of Sensation consists merely in the,ex­
citation of a simple mental change, known to every one, al­
though incapable, in consequence of this very character of
simplicity, of either analysis or definition. With reference
to its physiology, we know that it is effected through the
intermedium of certain nerves, connected, on the one hand,
with the organs on which impressions of various kinds are
made by the physical action of external objects, and on the
other, with those parts of the brain, of which the physical
affections are, by some inscrutable link, connected with the
affectionsof the soul, or sentient principle. These simple and
preliminary phenomena, composed of both physical and
mental changes, are to be carefully distinguished from those
subsequent operations that constitute perception, thought,
volition, and the whole series of psychical phenomena, which
*we are in the habit of referring to a distinct branch of hu­
man knowledge, and which is generally denominated M eta­
physics, Psychology, or the Philosophy o f M ind $ in con­
tradistinction to Physics, Somatology, or the Philosophy o f
M atter.
( 2 2 .) There can be little doubt that these operations,
which we are naturally accustomed to consider as being
purely of a mental character, are, in some unknown degree,
connected with physical changes taking place in the cere­
bral substance ; but as we are utterly unconscious of these
110 * PHYSIOLOGY.
changes, and as we are totally precluded from arriving at
any knowledge of their nature, or even of conceiving the
manner in which a connexion between mind and matterhas
been established, we are compelled, in this branch of the in­
quiry, to direct our attention exclusively to the mental phe­
nomena, to study their laws by the evidence of our own con­
sciousness, and to resort to processes of analysis and methods
of inductive investigation, in many respects different from
those which are successfully employed in the more arable
fields of physical science.
Whenever we are fortunate enough to trace some portions
of the mysterious but broken thread which unites the mate­
rial changes occurring in our bodily organs, with the opera­
tions of the intellect, or the affections of.the soul, we may
then occasionally re-enter the territory ot Physiology; and
while the two sciences arc thus capable of being studied in
conjunction, they will derive mutual advantage and illumi­
nation.
(23.) Yet, with regard to the mere physiological study of
the animal functions, it cannot escape our observation, that
a vast variety of phenomena in the economy have a direct
reference to the mental constitution of our nature, and are
to be studied, with relation to final causes, in immediate con-*
nexion with these objects. Thus, although the special pur­
poses served by the multiplicity, the curious arrangement,
and intricate structure of the parts of the brain, are as yet
wholly unknown, and as we still are, and shall probably ever
remain, in utter darkness as to the mode in which they per­
form their respective offices as instruments of perception,
thought, and volition, yet when we return to the observa­
tion of the bodily actions consequent on these mental pro­
cesses, as well as contributing to their performance, we are
VOLUNTARY MOTION. I l l
enabled to resume our physiological inquiries, and trace the
continuity of design in the exercise of the faculties of volun­
tary motion, by which the mind exerts a power of reacting
on matter, employs its properties for beneficial ends, and
exercises that partial dominion over nature, which has been
granted to it by the Divine Author of its being. The pos­
session of voluntary motion is directed, first, to enlarge the
sphere of our perceptions, by directing our organs of sense
to their respective objects 5 secondly, to bring the objects
themselves within the reach of those organs by which they
are to be examined; thirdly, to alter their forms and com­
binations, and modify them in various ways, so that the mind
may, from these different modes of examination, derive ac­
curate and extensive information of their properties, and
apply these properties to use ; and lastly, to effect the loco­
motion of the whole body, and thus extend widely the range
of its operations, and spread the dominion of man over every
kingdom of nature, and over every region of the globe.
(24.) But the relations of man with the external world
comprehend a much larger and more important field, since
they are not limited to the sphere of the material world, but
embrace the intellectual and moral existences of other per­
cipient and sentient beings. Through the intermedium of
signs, the results of movements of our bodily organs acting
on the senses, communications are established, not merely
between mind and matter, but between mind and mind.
Mutual interchanges take place, of thoughts, of opinions, of
feelings, and of affections ; and the value of existence is, to
an incalculable degree, augmented by the operations ofsym­
pathy, the impulses of benevolence, and all the potent and
benign influences of social union. Hence, physiologically
considered, the function of the voice, and its modulation into
112 PHYSIOLOGY.
articulate sounds, ranks as an important part of the animal
economy.
(25.) The faculty of Voluntary Motion^ like that of Sen­
sation, is derived from the peculiar properties of the nervous
substance. In the instance of sensation impressions are con­
veyed by means of the nerves from the external organs of
sense to the general centreof the sensitive faculty, the brain.
A similar power, we find, is exercised, though in a contrary
direction, in transmitting the actions arising from the deter­
minations of Volition, and which produce their first effects
on the brain, towards those parts which are capable of exe­
cuting thesedeterminations. Modemdiscoverieshaveshewn,
thatfor thislatter purposesets ofnervous fibres are employed
different from those instrumental in conve ^ng sensitive im­
pressions from the organs of sense to the Drain. Hence a
distinction is established between the Nerves o f Sensation9
and the nerves of motion, or the Motor Nerves.l While the
nerves of sensation should properly be considered as com­
mencing at the organs of sense, and terminating in the brain,
the nerves subservient to volition have their proper origin
in the brain, and proceed thence to the organs of motion.
Let us next examine in what these organs of motion con­
sist.
(26.) The principal source of motion, in the animal body,
resides in the Muscles, which taken altogether, usually com­
pose by far the largest part of the bulk of the animal. Mus­
cles consist of a collection of fleshy fibres, proceeding for
the most part in parallel directions, and extending from the
two points in the limb, or parts of the body, which are de-
1 We would suggest the propriety of designating these two classes
of nerves respectively, by the terms Sensiftrous and Voluntiferous, as
more distinctly expressing their proper functions.
LOCOMOTION— PREHENSION. 113
signed to be brought nearer to each other. The fibres of
which the muscles are composed are endowed with the re­
markable property of contracting, under certain circum­
stances, with prodigious power, so as to move the parts to
which they are attached with sudden and enormous force.
The impulse given to them by the nerves of volition, by
which they are connected with the brain, in every effort of
volition, excites them to contraction, and produces those
movements of the bodywhich are the objects ofthat volition.
(27.) The movements required for the purposes of ani­
mal life, are of course infinitely diversified in their kind, and
scarcely admit of any distinct classification. Amongst the
objects of these movements, however, we may notice two,
which are of essential importance ; the first is that of Loco­
motion^ the second that of Prehension.
(28.) Locomotion is one of the faculties more particu­
larly distinctive of animal life in opposition to that of vege­
table. Plants are more or less rooted to the soil where they
originally sprung: animals, destined to a wider sphere of
action, are endowed with the power of transporting their
bodies from place to place, on the one hand, of pursuing,
and on the other, of flying from pursuit; of choosing their
habitations, or of changing regions and climes according to
their wants or necessities.
(29.) The power of detaining and laying hold ofobjects,
is another mode in which the faculty of voluntary motion
may be highly advantageous to the animal possessing it.
With these may be associated the various actions requisite
for defence or attack, rendered necessary by the conflicts
incident to their condition.
(30.) For the performance of all these actions, there is
required in the first place, a solid and unyielding structure,
114 PHY8IOLOGY.
capable ofsustaining the weight of the body, and offurnish­
ing to the muscles or agents of motion, fixed points of at*
tachment. The bones, the union of which constitutes the
skeleton, are provided for these objects. They are formed
into separate pieces, with a view to their being moveable
upon one another. Their extremities are connected to­
gether by smooth surfaces, which are bound together by
firm bands or ligaments, bracing them on the sides where
they are exposed to the greatest strain. An apparatus of
this kind constitutes ajo in t.
(31.) The due performance of these mechanical objects,
implies a variety ofsubsidiary contrivances and adjustments,
toodiversified in their nature and objects to admit ofparticu­
lar specification. It is evident that the ^irticular texture
of each part must be adapted to the actions it has to per­
form. Flexibility and compressibility are required in one
organ ; rigidity and hardness in another. Some parts must
readily yield to an extending force, others must resist such
a force with extraordinary tenacity. Some must exert elas­
tic power, others must be devoid of this quality. Some tex­
tures must be permeable to fluids, others must deny them
all transmission. Hence, the variety of structures compos­
ing the mechanical frame-work of the system.
(32.) But in all the variations of conformation, it would
appear that nature has employed the same ultimate structure
as the basis of her work. All the solid parts of the animal
fabric are formed offibres, variously united and interwoven;
in some cases only loosely connected, so as to constitute a
spongy or cellular mass, flexible in every direction, and
forming a medium of connexion between adjacent parts of
various degrees of cohesion. This substance, which is found
universally to pervade the body, is termed the cellular sub­
MEMBRANES— LIGAMENTS. 115
stance or texture. It is eminently endowed with elasticity,
and thus contributes essentially to preserve the natural
figure of every organ, and to Restore it to its proper situa­
tion, after any displacement by a foreign cause.
(33.) When condensed into a firmer layer or sheet of
animal matter, the same substance assumes the form ofmem-
lyrane, and is extensively employed as such, to supply or­
gans with external coverings, or to afford them attachments
to surrounding parts for the purpose of protection and sup­
port. Membranes are also used as barriers, for intercepting
the communication of fluid from one cavity to another; and
they are also employed to form receptacles for the retention
of fluids, and tubes for conveying them from one part of the
system to another.
(34.) The fibrous structures, comprehending ligaments,
tendons, andfascia, are composed of still a denser approxi­
mation offibres, are endowed with a higher degree of tough­
ness and strength, and are capable of exerting great resist­
ance to any stretching force. Hence, they are extensively
employed in the construction of parts where these proper­
ties are required.
(35.) The organs specially appropriated to touch, are
generally also those of prehension: and progressive motion
is accomplished by means of limbs, which act either upon
the ground, the waters, or the air, according to the element
in which the animal resides. But, in order to give proper
effect to these movements, the agency of levers is required;
and we accordingly find a provision made for this purpose
in the construction of the bones, which, as we liave before
observed, are capable of supplying the fulcra or fixed cen­
tres of motion, and allow of the application of the moving
powers. It often happens that the actual attachment of
116 PHYSIOLOGY.
muscles to the points required to be moved, would be at­
tended with inconvenience. In this case, an intermediate
structure is employed, analogous to that of a ligament, but
here denominated a tendon, serving as a strap to connect
the muscle to a distant bone, or other part on which the ac­
tion of the muscle is to be exerted.
(36.) All the functions, which have for their object some
mechanical effort of the kind we have now described, may
be comprehended under the general head ofthe mechanical
Junctions.
(37.) The consideration of the chemical condition of the
animal system,introduces ustoa class of functions ofa totally
different nature from any of the preceding, yet equally es­
sential to the maintenance of life. The solids and fluids of
which organized structures are composea, differ materially
in their chemical constitution from the products of the mi­
neral kingdom. Their elements are combined by a much
more complicated arrangement, and united by less powerful
affinities; or rather the balance of affinities, by which they
are held together, is more easily destroyed, and thus, prone­
ness to decomposition is constantly present. One of the
roost remarkable and important of the operations ofthe vital
functions, is to repress this tendency to decomposition; for
no sooner is life extinct, than we find both the solids and
fluids of the body hastening to assume new forms and com­
binations of their elements; and nothing can now prevent
the final disorganisation of that fabric which so lately de­
lighted the eye with its beauty, and in which dwelt the
genial warftith of life, and the elastic vigour of youth. If
we watch the progress of those changes which take place in
the body, we shall find it characterised by a perpetual reno­
vation of materials, continual losses of substance on the one
FUNCTIONS OF NUTRITION. 117
part, being compensated by an equally constant supply on
the other. From an atom of imperceptible minuteness we
trace its gradual increase of size, by the reception of nutri­
tious matter from without, by the incorporation of this mat­
ter with that which had before existed, by the consolidation
of the fluid, by the extension of the solid parts. We see
all the organs expanding by a slow, but uniform increase,
and in regular proportion, till they arrive at a certain limit.
Having attained this limit, the body remains stationary for
a certain period; that is, the waste of substance is exactly
compensated by the supplies furnished by the food receiv­
ed into the body. At length, however, the compensation
is less perfectly maintained; the powers which carry on the
functions begin to decline, the solids dry up and harden,
and a general torpor gradually pervades the system. Life
is sooner or later brought to a close by the natural progress
of these changes, even if its course be not sooner arrested
by causes of an accidental nature.
(38.) The functions ofnutrition embrace a class of oper­
ations, destined to supply the materials wanted for the
growth of the body, and for the supply of those materials
which either may have been expended in the natural exer­
cise of the other functions, or lost in various ways, or else
employed in the reparation of injuries, which the organs
may have accidentally sustained. The nutritive, or as they
may also be termed the chemical Junctions, since they re­
late to the chemical condition of the body, comprehend a
long series of processes, which, in order to study them suc­
cessfully, require many successive subdivisions.
The first division includes all those functions which con­
tribute to the reduction of the food to a substance of simi­
lar chemical composition with the materials of which the
118 PHYSIOLOGY.
body already consists $ processes which are comprehended
under the general term of Assimilation*
The second and third divisions relate to the collection of
the nutriment thus prepared, or assimilated, into a general
reservoir; and its subsequent distribution throughout the
body, so as to admit of being applied to use whenever it
may be wanted. These objects are attained by the func­
tions of Absorption and of Circulation*
A fourth division refers to the purification of the general
mass of nutritious fluid existing in the great reservoir of the
body, by the separation of its superfluous combustible por­
tion, and more especially of its carbon; a change which is
effected by the function of Respiration.
The last division of this class of fury ^ons comprehends
the several processes by which certain materials are separ­
ated from the blood in a solid or fluid form 5 some with a
view to their final expulsion from the system, some to an­
swer purposes connected with other functions, and the re­
maining part being expended in repairing the waste which
the solids of the body undergo in the exercise of their re­
spective offices. To the former of these functions the term
of Secretion is applied; whilst the last is more especially re­
garded as the proper and final process of N utrition. We
shall examine each of these divisions more particularly.
(39*) Assimilation is effected by a long series of pro­
cesses, which are partly of a mechanical and partly of a
chemical nature. The food taken into the mouth is first
masticated by the action of the teeth and jaws, so as to break
down the cohesion of its parts, and prepare it for the che­
mical action of the fluids to which it is aflerwards to be sub­
jected. There is at the same time added to it a quantity
of liquid, termed the saliva9prepared by a set of glands, to
STOMACH— INTESTINES. 119
be hereafter specified, and poured out into the mouth in
large quantities during the act of mastication. By these
means the food is softened in its texture, and reduced to the
form of a pulp, in which state it is swallowed, by the organs
of deglutition, and conveyed through a tube called the ceso-
phagus into the storftach. The stomach is a capacious bag,
or receptacle, capable of holding a considerable quantity
of food, and of retaining it for a certain period. The inner
membrane which lines the cavity of the stomach prepares a
fluid termed the gastric juice, which acts chemically upon
the food in that cavity, while this food is at the same time
subjected to a degree of pressure from the action of a set of
muscular fibres which are interposed between the interior
and exterior coats of the stomach. The food is also slowly
moved by the successive contractions of these muscles, so
that every part of it comes in its turn to be acted upon by
the gastric juice, until the whole is converted into a soft and
smooth mass of uniform consistence which is termed chyme;
the operation itself by which this conversion is effected
being termed digestion.
(40.) The aliment thus digested, or reduced to the state
of chyme, passes onwards from an orifice at the farther end
of the stomach into a tube of great length, several portions
ofwhich have received different names, but which are com­
prised under the general term of the intestines. In the first
portion, the duodenum, the aliment undergoes still further
changes; it is mixed with two fluids, the one called the bile,
which is prepared by a large glandular organ, termed the
liver ; and the other called the pancreatic juice, prepared
by another gland, the pancreas. Secretions also take place
from the inner membrane of the intestines themselves, and
the result of the united action of all these fluids, aided by
120 PHYSIOLOGY.
the movements imparted to the aliment by the contractions
of the muscularfibres contained in the coats ofthe intestines,
is gradually to convert part of what was chyme into a new
substance called chyle, which is the most nutritious portion
of the aliment, and has the appearance of a milky fluid.
The chyle is received into a set of very minute tubes call­
ed lacteal#, which are exceedingly numerous, and arise by
open mouths from the inner surface of the duodenum and
its prolongations, thejejunum and ileum. They collect the
chyle together, and pour it into an intermediate receptacle,
whence it is conveyed along a large tube, called the thoracic
duct, into other cavities, of which we shall presently speak.
That portion of the chyme which is not converted into chyle,
descends into the lower portions of the i testinal canal, is
collected in the larger intestines, of which the colon is the
principal one, and finally ejected from the body.
(41.) The next step in the assimilatory process is the
conversion of the chyle into blood, a change which has been
termed sanguification. It is in the great system of vessels
which contain the blood already formed, and in the course
of the passages through which the blood is moved, that this
gradual change is effected. The great reservoir of this im­
portant fluid, on which the nutrition of every part of the
body, and its maintenance in a state of action, immediate­
ly depend, is the heart. The thoracic duct opens into
one of the veins or tubes leading directly to the heart; the
chyle is therefore immediately conducted into this reservoir,
and thoroughly mixed with the general mass of food.
(42.) The heart is a powerful muscular organ; from its
cavity arise the trunks of large tubes, called arteries>which
subdivide and ramify as they proceed in their course to
every part of the body, being distributed in abundance to
CIRCULATION— SECRETION. 121
every organ, with a very few exceptions. No sooner are
the cavities of the heart distended with blood, than the
muscular structure which surrounds their cavities contract
with enormous force, and propel their fluid contents through
the system of arteries, sending it in one great wave, even
to the extremities of its minutest ramifications. From these
extremities of the arteries it passes into corresponding
branches of another set of vessels, the veins, which proceed
in the opposite direction, towards the heart, uniting in their
course into larger and larger trunks, till they reach the
heart, to which they deliver back the portion of blood that
has thus percolated through every part of the body. No
sooner has it again filled the cavities of ihe heart, than it is
again sent with renewed force into the same arterial chan­
nels, and again brought back by the veins. The functions
by which this circular course is given to the blood, is term­
ed the circulation.
(43.) The blood, in the course of its circulation, furnishes
to all the organs the materials which are necessary for their
growth, for the renovation of their powers, and for the sup­
ply of those fluids and other animal products which are
wanted in various parts of the economy. The separation
of these fluids, and the formation of these peculiar animal
products, are the objects of another function, that of secre­
tion, Particular organs are in most cases provided for the
purpose of effecting these processes. These are the glands,
which are variously constructed according to the particular
offices they have to perform; each is furnished with an
elaborate apparatus of vessels; and the fluid which is form­
ed by them, is generally conducted to the place of its des­
tination by a pipe, or excretory duct, as it is termed.
(44.) The fluidswhich are thus separatedfrom the blood
122 PHYSIOLOGY.
are, for the most part, applied to useful purposes irf dif­
ferent parts of the economy; some for the repair of that
loss of substance in the part of the body incident to the ex­
ercise of their respective functions, others for different sub­
sidiary purposes related to those functions. The substance
of the bones, for example, undergoes a gradual change dur­
ing the whole of life ; each particle is removed in succession
and is replaced by others, so that in the course of time the
whole substance of the body undergoes renovation. Two
important functions are called into action for the completion
of these processes; the first of these is concerned in the re­
moval of the old and decayed materials ; the second, in the
due application of those which are to replace them.
(45.) The removal of those particles frich have become
useless, and whose presence might be injurious, is effected
by a distinct set of vessels, called lymphatics. The lym­
phatics are met with in almost every part of the body $and
resemble, both in structure and mode of distribution, the
lacteal vessels already described. The mode of their ori­
gin is not well ascertained, but, like the lacteals, the smaller
branches successively unite into trunks, which terminate
either in the thoracic duct, or into the larger veins leading
directly to the heart. Through these channels, then, it is
that all the particles which require removal are conveyed
away, and deposited into the general mass of circulating
fluids. The function thus performed by the lymphatics in
common with*the lacteals, is termed absorption.
(46.) The function having for its object the reparation
of the substance of the different organs, is designated by the
general name of N utrition. It includes the developement
and growth of the parts, and their maintenance in the heal­
thy state, that is the state in which they are fitted for the
GROWTH AND REPARATION. 123
exercise of their several functions; as well as the restora­
tion of what they may have lost from accidental causes, such
as mechanical injuries.
When a bone is broken, for instance, a solid union is by
degrees effected by the deposit of new ossific materials,
consisting chiefly of phosphat of lime, which is secreted or
separated from the blood by the irritated vessels in the
neighbourhood of the injury. In all these cases the absorb­
ents are also at work in modelling the shape of the part to
be restored, in removing all roughnesses or angular projec­
tions, and making room for the new formations which are to
take place. The functions of absorption and nutrition are
thus, in some respects, opposed to each other, producing
contrary effects, though both co-operating in the accom­
plishment of one final purpose, and balanced and adjusted
to one another with that manifest intention. The general
bulk of the body, and of its parts, varies according to the
predominance of the one or the other of these actions of
absorption and nutrition $ wasting when the former is in ex­
cess ; thriving and enlarging when the latter prevails.
(47.) There is one peculiar mode in which superabund­
ant nutrition manifests itself. When the supply of nutri­
ment is greater than what the wants of the system require,
the superfluous portion is converted into an oily fluid, which
is laid up in store for future us^ This fluid is the fa t;
and it is accumulated in various parts of the body, and es­
pecially between the skin and the muscles, and in other
places, where it may also serve a subsidiary purpose of me­
chanical protection against inequalities of pressure. The fat
is thus useful as a soft cushion on which delicate organs,
such as the eye, may move in security; and also as a con­
venient materia] for filling up hollows in various unoccupi­
124 PHYSIOLOGY*
ed situations. The chief use, however, of large accumula­
tions of fat, is to serve as a magazine of nutriment, out of
which the body may be supported in those seasons when
the supply of food is deficient, and more particularly during
those periods which are, by some animals, passed in a state
of complete inactivity. This is the case in those animals
which are said to hybernate, or continue during the whole
of winter in a perfectly torpid state.
(48.) Whilst some of the products of secretion are thus
employed in nutrition, others are subservient to the func­
tions of particular organs. Thus, the tears are useful in
washing away from the surface of the eye, dust, and other
materials which might obstruct vision ; the gastric juice is
subservient to digestion ; and the mucilag*' ^ous secretion of
the wind-pipe and nostrils defend those passages from the
acrimony of the air. But, in other cases, these secreted
matters have noxious qualities; and it is the object oftheir
separation from the blood, to get rid of them altogether.
This is the case with the secretions from the kidneys, and
from the skin, and perhaps, also, partly with that from the
liver. These are termed the excretions, in contradistinction
to the propersecretions, and the organs which separate them
are termed the emunctories.
(49*) The organs which, in this sense of the term, must
be considered as the pr\j|cipal emunctory of the body are
the lungs. It would appear that the blood, from which the
animal solids and fluids derive their nourishment, contains
a larger proportion of carbon than what is required for the
formation and reparation of these solids and fluids; the ele­
ments abstracted from the blood by the processes of secre­
tion and nutrition, being principally oxygen, hydrogen, and
nitrogen.
INSPIRATION. 125
The continuance of these processes must tend therefore,
to produce an accumulation of carbon in the blood; and
accordingly we find that this fluid, in the course of its cir­
culation, gradually acquires a darker colour. From being
of a vivid scarlet hue in the trunks of the arteries, it has
changed to a dark purple by the time it has reached the
veins. It is returned to the heart, therefore, in a state un­
fit for the purposes of nutrition, and not proper to be again
circulated through the vessels of the body. In order to re­
store it to its original state, it is necessary to deprive it ofthe
ingredient it contains in excess, that is, of carbon, which,
when thus present in the blood, is found to exert a positively
deleterious power on the parts to which it is applied.
For this purpose the blood is transmitted by an appro­
priate system of arteries, to the lungs, where it is exposed
to the influence of atmospheric air, alternately received in­
to, and expelled from that organ. By a process which ap­
pears to be analogous to slow combustion, the superfluous
carbon of the blood combines with the oxygen of the atmo­
spheric air, and is expelled, in the form of carbonic acid
gas, along with the air expired. The blood thus purified,
and restored to its salutaryqualities,is conducted back again,
by a corresponding set of veins, to the heart, and is again
sent, by the contractions of that organ, into the arteries of
the body, and performs the same round of circulation as be­
fore. Respiration, which is the title of the function we
have now been describing, completes this class, which we
have termed the chemical functions of the economy.
(50.) The three classes of functions we have been re­
viewing, namely, the mechanical, the chemical, and the sen­
sitive, relate only to the preservation and welfare of the
individual alone. But as nature has assigned a limit to the
126 PHYSIOLOGY.
duration o flife, it became necessary that a provision should
be made for the multiplication o f individuals, and the con­
servation of the race. Such, then, is the object of a fourth
class offunctions, namely the reproductiveJunctions, includ­
ing the processes offecundation, of evolution, of gestation,
and ofparturition, and the auxiliary function of lactation,
provided for the supply ofthe new-born infant with nourish­
ment adapted to the tender condition of its organs of assi­
milation.
(51.) Having studied the phenomena and the circum­
stances which lay the foundations of individual existence,
the physiologist has next to occupy himselfwith the consi­
deration of the long series of changes which intervene be­
tween the cradle and the grave, and co* ftitute the “strange
eventful history” of the physical life of man. He follows
the rise and developement of the several organs, and the
occasions on which their functions are called forth : he no­
tices their entry on the stage of life, in which they are de­
stined to play more or less important parts; he watches
their progress, maturity, and decay, till they finally disap­
pear from the scene, when their functions having succes­
sively declined, and passed away, the vital spark becomes
extinguished, and the curtain drops on the fleeting drama
of our probationary existence. A multitude of interesting
subjects press on his attention in this division ofhis subject,
so replete with wonder, and so calculated to impress us
with exalted ideas ofdivine prescience, and ofthe unbound­
ed resources of creative power.
To this department of physiology properly belong, first,
the history of the changes which take place in the organs*
during their natural course of developement, in what has
been styled their normal condition, such as the formation
Va r ie t ie s in t h e r a c e . 127
of the vital organs, the process of ossification, the general
growth o f the body, the changes occurring at the period of
puberty, the slow but sure progress of consolidation attend­
ing the decline of life, and the successive decay and obli­
teration of the faculties which precede death ; and, second­
ly, the study of phenomena exhibiting the operation of
those powers of repair and renovation, which exist in the
constitution, and which are called forth only on certain oc­
casions,when the organization hasbeen injuredor destroyed,
or when the functions have been deranged or suspended,
by various accidental causes.
(52.) These topics introduce to our notice the varieties
which are observable in different classes of individuals in
the general mode in which the functions are performed
with reference to their balance, or relative preponderance :
conditions which constitute the different temperaments, as
they are called, and which are severally characterised by
peculiar external indications.
(53.) Physiology, lastly, comprehends within the scope
of its inquiries, those more strongly marked diversities that
are met with in the inhabitants of different regions of the
globe, and which appear to form separate races of mankind.
These constitutional peculiarities, as shown by differences
both in external conformation, and in the internal endow­
ments of an intellectual and moral nature, are of so distinct
and permanent a character, as to have suggested the hypo-
pothesis of their indicating, in a zoological sense, not merely
varieties of a single species, but several different species of
the genus Man.
(54.) The present treatise is intended to exhibit a con­
densed view of the actual state of our knowledge on all the
subjects comprised in the above outline, and to conclude
128 PHYSIOLOGY*
with a review of the progressive history of the science from
the earliest periods to the present time*
(55.) It is hardly necessary to remark, that the pro­
vince of Physiology, is restricted to the consideration of
the phenomena of the living body in its perfectly normal
or healthy state: while those which are presented when
these limits of healthy action are passed, and the abnormal,
or diseased state commences, are the subjects of another
branch of science, denominated Pathology, no less inter­
esting and important than the former, as furnishing the
principles by which the art of medicine derives all its pow­
ers; but which, it must be obvious, must have its foundations
laid in an extensive and correct knowledge ofphysiology.
(56.) It is evident that the foundat ins of all physiolo­
gical knowledge must be laid in a thorough acquaintance
with the structure or internal mechanism of animals. The
study of anatomy, indeed, derives its chief interest from its
connexion withphysiology;forunlessviewedwithreference to
theiruses,orsubserviency toparticularpurposes,theexamina­
tionofthe formsandpropertiesofthe partsofa machine would
be a barren and an irksome task. Let us imagine, for exam­
ple, a person, who had never seen a ship, and had no idea
of the object for which it is intended, to visit it for the first
time, and to be at liberty to examine at his leisure every
part of its rigging and internal construction. A restless cu­
riosity might indeed lead him to handle the ropes and blocks,
and climb upon every mast; to descend between the decks,
and minutely inspect every part of its fabric; to explore,
in a word, the whole anatomy of this most stupendous pro­
duct ofhuman ingenuity. But his labour would avail him
nothing. The most complete survey would afford him no
instruction, or leave any distinct impression as long as he
PHYSIOLOGY FOUNDED ON ANATOMY. 12£>
had no principle to connect them in his mind. But let him
review the same objects with an experienced guide, instruct­
ing him, as he proceeds, with the general purposes of the
whole machine, and the particular uses of every part, as well
as the mode in which they operate and concur in the pro­
duction of the intended effect. Then it is that he will feel
a real interest in the examination: then it is that he will
attach due importance to each part of the inquiry. Per­
ceiving the relations which connect the objects, and under­
standing the functions of the several instruments he sees,
he is no longer perplexed and bewildered 5 individual facts
arrange themselves in a natural order, and the whole forms
in his mind one connected system of knowledge, readily re­
tained and easily communicated.
The case is perfectly similar with regard to the body of
an animal, of which anatomy lays open to us the structure.
Dissection can only shew us that it consists of various parts,
some hard, some soft, and others fluid. Thcharderparts, such
as the bones, are of various forms, perforated by numerous
apertures, andjoined togetherindifferentways. The softparts
arefound tobe composedofvarious kindsof textures, ofwhich
the elements appear to be collections of fibres or plates, cu­
riously disposed and interwoven, so as to constitute a cellular
or spongy tissue, and, occasionally, more extended layers of
membrane. In every part we find innumerable tubes and
passages, branching out and again uniting, in an infinite va­
riety of ways. We arrive at cavities of different forms and
extent, enclosing organs of various descriptions, or contain­
ing fluids which pass through appropriate channels of com­
munication to very distant parts; composing altogether a
vast and complicated system ofmechanicaland hydraulicap-
paratus. Thus whilst we confine our attention to the mere
130 YHY8IOLOGY.
anatomy,all is perplexity and confusion 5 we are overwhelm­
ed by the multiplicity of objects, and lost in the immense
mass of unconnected detail. But no sooner do we study the
parts of the animal frame with reference to their uses, and
their subserviency to the several functionsof the living body,
than the whole appears under a new aspect. Aided by the
light of physiology, we trace order and connexion in every
part, and gather increasing delight and instruction as we
proceed. The requisite adaptation of the organs to their
respective offices, and the correspondence established be­
tween these offices, by which they concur in the same ulti­
mate object, must ever excite our most profound admiration,
and exalt our ideas of that infinite intelligence which plan­
ned, and that transcendent power and beneficence which
executed the vast and magnificent system of creation.
APPLICATION TO MEDICINE. 131
CHAPTER II.
APPLICATIONS OP PHYSIOLOGY.
(57.) Physiology claims our attention, not merely as an
ornamental branchofspeculative knowledge,butas a science
of immediate and vast practical utility. Numerous are the
occasions on which a scientific knowledge of the structure
of our own bodies, and of the operations that are carried on
within us, is highly valuable to its possessor ; and more es­
pecially if combined with the more enlarged views derived
from the study of comparative physiology. It may be use­
ful here to point out some of the most important applica­
tions of physiological knowledge.
(58.) It is scarcely necessary to dwell on the utility of a
knowledge of anatomy, enlightened by physiology, in its
application to the art of medicine ; for the very foundations
of that art must be laid by these sciences. It is, however,
proper to advert to the limited advantage which would ac­
crue from such application if those sciences were confined
to the human structure and the human functions, instead of
comprehending within its range the whole of the animal
creation. All the important discoveries of modern times
with regard to the economy of the human body have been
derived from observations made on the lower animals. That
of the circulation of the blood, for instance, which has im­
mortalised the name of Harvey, was obtained principally
132 PHYSIOLOGY.
from this source. John Hunter, one of the greatest bene­
factors to the healing art in modern times, was so deeply
impressed with the necessity of an extended study of com­
parative physiology, that he devoted his whole life to its cul­
tivation, with an ardour and a perseverance that have been
rarely equalled, and never surpassed ; as is attested by the
unrivalled museum of preparations in every department of
comparative anatomy, which he formed by his own unaid­
ed exertions, and which will ever remain an imperishable
monument to his fame.
(59*) The various combinations of faculties, which are
met with in the different tribes of animals, exhibit in a most
striking manner the mutual dependence and relations of
the animal and vital functions. As if * th the express in­
tention of assisting us in our physiological researches on the
attributes of that vitality which eludes our experimental in­
vestigations, nature offers to our view, in the diversified
structures of each successive order of animals, a series, as
it were, of varied experiments; and exhibits the several or­
gans under every degree of simplicity and complication of
structures, and every possible mode of combination. The
application of all this knowledge comes home to our own
bosoms; for the human race is then viewed as composing
a member of the great family of nature; and we ourselves,
as well as allthe individuals ofthat race,are placed under the
governance of those general laws which regulate all ani­
mated beings. Our deepest interests, our future comforts
and enjoyments, our powers of action, our intellectual ex­
istence, our capacities of feeling and of reasoning, all that
renders life desirable, nay, that very life itself, are wholly
dependent on the operation of those laws, and on the mi­
nutest results produced by their varied combinations. In a
APPLICATION TO ZOOLOGY. 133
word, we ourselves are animals, and nothing that relates
ever so remotely to animal life can be to us a matter of in­
difference.
(6 0 .) Although the researches into comparative physio­
logy necessarily imply a knowledge of the forms and his­
tory of the different races of animals, it tends to reflect, in
its turn, the most importantlight on the science of zoology;
and more especially on that department which relates to
the classification of animals. All scientific knowledge must
be founded on correct classification; but in zoology a me­
thodical arrangement is indispensable; for scarcely any pro­
gress could be made without it. The number of animals
in the habitable globe is immense, while our faculties and
means of observation are extremely limited. Of insects
alone, the number of distinct species which have been al­
ready determined considerably exceeds one hundred thou­
sand. Of the other classes ofanimals, though less numerous,
the catalogue of known species is at least half as great.
Each of these races of beings has its distinct and charac­
teristic form, its peculiar organization, habits, and faculties.
It is obvious that if, at the outset of our inquiries, we were to
attempt describing, or even oftaking an inventory ofall the
living objects that presented themselves to our notice with­
out regard to any principle oforder, ourattention would soon
be distracted, and our memory overwhelmed by the confu­
sed accumulation of details; and it would not be possible to
deduce from them any useful result. Classification affords
the only clue which can extricate us from this intellectual
labyrinth, which can resolve this state of chaos, and reduce
this crude and indigested mass of materials into the form of
regular science. It is only by a methodical arrangement
of objects that we can arrive at the perception of the more
134 PHYSIOLOGY.
extended relations which subsist among them, or establish
general propositions, embracing a multitude of subordinate
facts, and capable of an indefinite number of useful appli­
cations*
(61.) In framing a system of classification of the animal
kingdom, there are two objects which we may have in view;
first, that of being able readily to ascertain the name ofany
*animal which may present itselfto our notice, and of recog­
nising its identity with a species already known and de­
scribed ; or, secondly, that of becoming acquainted with
the general nature and character of the animal in question;
with the affinities which it has with others of the same class,
and with the rank which it holds in the scale of animation.
Thefirstoftheseobjectsisattainedbywhatarecalledartificial
methods of classification; the second bj ^vhat are called
natural methods. Much error and confusion have prevail­
ed in the reasonings of naturalists from their neglecting to
discriminate the respective objects of these two kinds of
methods, which nevertheless are perfectly distinct from each
other.
(62.) In endeavouring to accomplish the first of these ob­
jects, we take, as it were, an inventory of nature, we record
all her productions, and follow her in all her variations; we
collect the fullest and most faithful description of every
known species, and assign to each a particular name.
The end we have in view being simply to devise a ready
method of identifying animals, we follow a process of this
kind. We first unite those species which are most nearly
allied to each other into one genus. We observe, for ex­
ample, several species which have much resemblance to the
stag; such as the rein-deer, the elk, the roebuck, the fal­
low-deer, the axis, the muntjac, and several others: we as­
APPLICATION TO ZOOLOGY. 135
semble all these into one genus, which we call the deer
kind. By a similar process we form another genus of ani­
mals resembling the bull; such as the buffalo, &c. The
genus antelope will, in like manner, comprehend the gazelle,
the chamois, the nylghau, the oryx, the saiga, the gnu,
and a multitude of others. In the same way, the camel-
leopard, the goat, sheep, camel, and musk, may be regard­
ed as so many generic terms, each including a number ofdif­
ferent animals, distinct in race, but similar in appearance.
Having thus constituted the genera, we may apply to them
the same principle of generalization that we did to the spe­
cies; uniting them, according to their similitudes, into more
comprehensive assemblages. Thus the genera above men­
tioned, having many features of resemblance, are consider­
ed as composing a tribe or order, to which Linnaeus has given
the name ofpecora.
(63.) We may continue this process till we have gone
through the whole animal kingdom ; but it will then be ne­
cessary to adopt in some respects a contrary method ; and
instead of ascending as we have done from particulars to
generals, to descend from generals to particulars. Regard­
ing the animal kingdom as one entire subject, we must par­
tition it into provinces, and again subdivide these into small­
er portions. All these divisions and subdivisions must be
foundedupon distinct variations ofexternal organs, and must
be characterised by concise definitions, enumerating the
leading circumstances common to all the animals they com­
prehend, and by which they may be cpntrasted with those
included in the collateral divisions. The great primary di­
visions of the animal kingdom are the classes; the subdi­
visions of these form the orders; these comprehend the
genera, which again include the separate races or species ;
136 PHYSIOLOGY.
while the ultimate ramifications of the system, expressive
merely of diversities arising in the same race, constitute
what are called varieties* By thus confining our atten­
tion to a small number of essential characters, we are ena­
bled to ascertain, by a sort of analytical process, the name
of any animal that we may wish to examine or identify. We
have converted our rude inventory into a convenient die*
tionary of nature, where every object may be found at its
appropriate place. The characters of the classes resemble
in their office the initial letter of a word ; the characters of
the subsequent divisions that of the succeeding letters, con­
ducting us with certainty and precision to the place we seek.
The full developement ofthis method,and ofthe logic which
should regulate it, and its successful application to natural
history, we owe to the genius and indust j| of Linnaeus, to
whom the science will ever have to record a lasting obliga­
tion.
(64.) But however perfectly we may have accomplished
the purpose we had in view in these artificial arrangements,
it is impossible not to perceive that we have obtained them
by the sacrifice of that order which nature herself points
out. A strict adherence to any arbitrarily assumed princi­
ple of classification, is, in truth, incompatible with the pre­
servation ofthe natural affinities of animals. Thus, in the
system of Linnaeus, the orderprimates, among the mamma­
lia, presents the incongruous association of man with mon­
keys, lemurs, and bats. In the order belluce, the horse is
placed by the side"ofthe hog* Theferce offer us the un­
natural association of the seal, the dog, the bear, the opos­
sum, the hedgehog, and the mole, merely because these
animals, in most respects totally dissimilar, happen to agree
in having the incisor teeth of a conical shape. The conti­
APPLICATION TO ZOOLOGY. 137
nual violation of natural analogies, which is yet necessarily
incident to all artificial systems, has exposed them to much
censure and ridicule, from those who forget that the pur*
pose for which they are framed, is that of convenient re­
ference, and that it is essential to arrangements adapted
to that end, that they should be arbitrary. As well might
it be made the subject of complaint, that, in a dictionary,
words having very different meanings, are found placed in
juxtaposition.
(65.) Cuvier has justly remarked that a perfect natural
method should be the expression ofthe science itself, that is,
of its most general propositions. By assembling animals in
groups, according to their general resemblances in the more
important circumstances oftheir organization and functions,
we are enabled to connect*them under one description, and
afterwards apply to each individual species all the particu­
lars comprised in this description, and thus we obtain more
or less comprehensive statements, or, as it were, zoological
laws, enabling us both to acquire and to retain the facts
with greater facility, and to apply them with readiness in
every case ; in a word, it gives us the entire command of
that knowledge, by imparting to it the form ofscience. The
tribe ofpecora, formerly mentioned, may be taken as an
excellent example of a natural family of animals; for they
consist of species which bear a striking resemblance with
one another in form, organization, and manners. If we
meet with a new animal having one or two of the leading
characters of this tribe, we deduce at once all the most im­
portant features of its history. We know, for instance, from
its possessing a double hoof, that it belongs to this tribe,
and consequently that it feeds on herbage, that it has four
stomachs, and that it ruminates its food; that it belongs to
138 PHYSIOLOGY.
a species disposed to assemble in flocks or herds, and that
it has a disposition to be domesticated. We may pronounce
that its upper jaw has no incisor teeth, and so forth.
(6 6 .) It is evident that from the discovery of these ana­
logies, on which the arrangement into natural families is
founded, we must resort to the aid of comparative physio­
logy. It is this science alone that can teach us to discri­
minate the circumstances which are of real importance in
the animal economy, and on which their very nature and
character depend. The immense progress which has been
made in this branch of knowledge since the time of Lin­
naeus, has enabled us to determine with much greater pre­
cision the relative affinities of animals, and the rank which
each tribe is entitled to hold in the natural system of clas­
sification. * \
(67.) Attempts have often been made to combine these
two methods into one, by a sort of mutual compromise be­
tween them, that is, by an arrangement partly natural and
partly artificial, to obtain the principal advantages of both.
The most perfect specimen of this union ofthe two methods
is that of Dumeril, which he has published under the title of
Zoologie Analytique. The characters on which hi6 divi­
sions are foundedare distributed in a strictly analytical order,
and they conduct us to classes much more natural than those
of Linnaeus. Thushe divides theLinnaeanclass ofinsects into
two, namely, Crustacea, and insects properly so called. The
very miscellaneous class of vermes, in which animals very
dissimilar in their nature had been thrown together as it
were in a lumber closet, compose in this system the more
natural assemblages of mollusca, vermes, and zoophytes. Du­
meril has pursued this plan throughout the whole of the ani­
mal kingdom, reducing all the characters which lead to the
determination of classes, orders, families, and genera, to the
form of synoptic tables.
(68.) The arrangement which makes the nearestapproach
to a natural distribution is that adopted by Cuvier, in his
celebrated work, entitled L e Regne Anim al Distribute
(Tapres son O rganization; as it is founded chiefly on the
structure of the organs most essential to life, and having
most influence in determining the intelligence, sensibilities,
activity, habits, and manners of animals. Physiology is, in
fact, the basis of Cuvier's classification, for it proceeds on
the following principles.
(69*) The powers of sensation and of voluntary motion
being the chief attributes of animal life, it follows that the
organs of primary importance in the economy are those
which are immediately subservient to the performance of
these functions. They are, as we have seen, the organs
composing the nervous system; and the general form and
distribution of the nervous system, therefore, should lay
the foundation of the primary divisions of the animal king­
dom. There appear to be four general types or models of
structure of these organs presented in the animal creation.
The first consists of a brain, or large mass of nervous sub-
stance, from which a cylindrical process, called the spinal
marrow, is continued; and these are protected respectively
by the bones of the skull, and by a series of bones, called
vertebra, which form a jointed column along the whole
length of the back. Animals formed on this construction
are called vertebrated animals, a division which compre­
hends all the higher classes ofthe animal kingdom, namely,
mammalia, birds, reptiles, andfishes.
In the second form of the nervous system, there is pro­
perly but one central mass of nervous substance, or brain,
APPLICATION TO ZOOLOGY. 139
140 PHYSIOLOGY.
without any spinal marrow, and from this mass filaments of
nerves proceed, in various directions, to be distributed to
all the other parts. This division comprehends all the mol-
Insect^ including both the mollusca and testacea ofLinnaeus.
The third form is that of a longitudinal series of masses
connected together by lateral filaments, and sending out,
as from so many centres, ramifications of nerves. This
structure is the distinctive mark ofarticulated animals, and
may be recognised in insects, and worms properly so called.
The fourth and last division of Cuvier, be denominates
radiated animals, in which, wherever nerves are found,
they appear as a numbervof equal masses disposed in a cir­
cle, and sending out fibres, which diverge like rays from a
common centre. Hence the whole body of the animal, or
at least some of its principal organs, hat &radiated or star-
like form. This is the case with the asterias, medusa, po­
lypi, and all the other animals comprehended under the
name of zoophytes.
As frequent reference will be made, in this treatise, to
the zoological classification of Cuvier, we shall here give a
table of the principal divisions which it comprises, together
with examples of animals included in each order.
L VERTEBRATA.
1. MAMMALIA.
1. Bimana».............Man,
2. Quadrumana..... ,, Monkey, ape, lemur,
3. Cheiroptera..........B at, colugo.
4. Insectivoro.........Hedgehop, threw, mole,
5. Plantigrada...........Bear, badger, glutton,
6. Digitigrada............B og, lion, cat, martin, weasel, otter,
7. Amphibia.............. Seal, walrus.
a p p l ic a t io n t o z o o l o g y . i4 i
8. Marsupialia........... Opossum, kangaroo, wombat.
9. Rodentia.............Beaver, rat, squirrel, porcupine, hare.
10. Edentata...........
j Sloth, armadillo, anteater, pangolin, omithor-
•** ( nychus.
11. Pacbydermata.......Elephant, hog, rhinoceros, tapir, horse.
12. .Ruminantia......
f Camel, musk, deer, giraffe, antelope, goat,
l sheep, or.
13. Cetacea............ ,,,,Dolphin, whale.
2. AVES.
1. Accipitres........ ... Vulture, eagle, owl.
2. Passores............... Thrush, swallow, lark, crow, sparrow, wren.
3. Scansores.......... ... Woodpecker, cuckoo, toucan, parrot.
4. Gallinae............ ...Peacock, pheasant, grouse, pigeon.
5. Grail®............... ...Plover, stark, snipe, ibis,flamingo.
6. Palmipedes....... ...Auk, grebe, gvM, pelican, swan, duck•
3. BEPTILIA.
1. Chelonia........... ... Tortoise, turtle, emys.
2. Sauria................ .. drocodile, lizard, gecko, chameleon.
3. Opbidia.............. ..Serpents, boa, viper.
4. Batrachia..............Frog, salamander, newt, proteus, siren.
4. PISCES.
1. Acanthopterygii...PercA, mackerel, sword-fish, mullet.
2. Malacopterygii.....{
3. Lopbobranchii......Pipe-fish, pegasus.
4. Plectognatbi.........Sun fish, trunk-fish.
5. Chondropterygii.. .Lamprey, shark, ray, sturgeon*
II. MOLLUSCA.
1. Cephalopoda......... Cuttle-fish, calamary, nautilus.
2. Pteropoda........... Clio, hyalata.
3. Gasteropoda......... Slug, snail, limpet, whdk.
4. Acephala..**.........Oyster, muscle, ascidia.
1 4 2 PHY SIO LO G Y *
5. Bnchiopoda...j....Xtn$rt<&t, terebratula.
6* Cirrhopoda...... ....Barnacle.
III. A R T IC U E A T A .
1 . A N N E L ID A .
1. Tubicola................ Serpula, sabeUa, ampkitrite.
2 . Dorsibranchia....... Nereis, aphodrite, lob-worm,
3. A bronchia........ ...Earth-worm, leech,, nais, hair-worm*
2 . CRUSTACEA.
3- Malacostraca.........
Decapoda.............. Crab, lobster, prawn.
Stomapoda.......... .Squill, phyllosoma.
Amphipoda.......... Gammarus, sand-hopper.
Laemodipoda..........Cyamus.
Isopoda.................. Wood louse.
2* Entomostraca......Afonocu/u*.
3 . A E A C H N ID A . t
1. Pulmonalia............Spider, tarantula, scorpion.
2 . Trachealia.............Phalangium, mite.
4 . IN SE C T A .
1. Aptera....................Centipede, podura.
2 . Coleoptera............Beetle, glow worm.
3. Ortboptera............ Grasshopper, locust.
4. Hemiptera............Fire-fly, aphis.
5. Neuroptera...........Dragon-fly, ephemera•
6. Hymenoptera.......Bee, wasp, ant.
7. Lepidoptera...........Butterfly, moth.
8. Rhipiptera............. Xenos, stylops•
9. Diptera...................Gnat, housefly.
IV . Z O O P H Y T A .
1. Echinodermata......Star-flsh, urchin.
APPLICATION TO ZOOLOGY. 143
2. Entozoa................Fluke, hydatid, tape-worm,
3. Acalepb©.....,...... Actinia, medusa.
4. Polypi...................Bydray cord, madrepore, pennatuta-
5. Infusoria..........„,,Brachionus, vibrio, proteus, monos.
It has long been a favourite notion with speculative natu­
ralists, that organized beings might be arranged in a conti­
nued series, every part of which, like the links of a chain,
should be connected with that which preceded and that
which followed it. Linnaeus was even impressed with the
idea that nature, in the formation of animals, had never
passed abruptly from one kind of structure to another. But
the idea of a chain, or continuous gradation of being, was
cherished with enthusiastic ardour by Bonnet, who, assum­
ing man as the standard of excellence, attempted to trace a
regular series, descending from him to the unorganized ma­
terials ofthe mineral world. Many other writers have adopt­
ed this speculation; but none have carried it to a more ex­
travagant length thanLamarck,who blendsit with thewildest
and most absurd hypothesis that was ever devised, to ac­
count for the diversities of animal structures. He conceives
that there was originally no distinction of species, but that
each has, in the course ofages, been derived from some other
less perfect than itself, by a spontaneous improvement in the
race. He believes that the animalcula of infusions gave
birth, by successive transformations, to all other animals ;
aquatic animals acquiring feet and legs, fitting them for
walking on the ground, and, after a time, being converted
into wings, merely from the long continued operation of a
desire to walk or to fly.
(70.) In support of the theory of continuous gradation
many anomalous animals are produced as instances of links
144 PHYSIOLOGY•
of connexion between different classes of animals. The bat
has been regarded as one of these intermediate links be­
tween mammaliaand birds. The cetaceous tribe, including
the whale, cachalot, dolphin, and narwhal, though proper­
ly belonging to the class mammalia, make an apparently near
approach to the tribe offishes. The ornithorhyncus is al­
lied both to quadrupedsand to birds. Many similar examples
might be produced among the inferior classes of the animal
kingdom. A little attention, however, will soon enable us
to perceive that they occupy but small portions of the wide
spaces intervening between different orders of animals.
Even in the best arranged systems, such as that of Cuvier,
we discover innumerable chasms wholly unoccupied, be­
tween adjacent orders; and in many '^stances animals,
which are scarcely in any respect allied to each other, are
placed in immediate sequence. This defect, as I have al­
ready observed, is unavoidable, because it is inherent in the
very nature of the subject. Instead of a single continuous
line, nature presents us with a multitude of partial series,
with innumerable ramifications, and occasionally a few in­
sulated circles. If metaphor must be employed, it would be
better to say, that instead of being a chain, the natural dis­
tribution of animals offers the idea of a complicated net­
work, where several parallel series present themselves, and
are occasionallyjoined by transverse or oblique lines of con­
nexion. The great divisions of Cuvier represent these prin­
cipal parallel series. The last, however, or that of the ra-
diata, appears to be the least perfect of these series, and
might with advantage be farther divided. On the subject of
natural classification Mr. Macleay1 hasadvanced ahypothe-
1 Macleay, Hora Entomological, or Essays on Annulose Animals,
1621.
APPLICATION TO GEOLOGY. 145
sis, which he supports with some ingenuity, namely, that the
real typesor models ofstructure may be representedH
bya cir­
cular or recurring arrangement; and he gives a number of
instances in which this principle appears very happily to ap­
ply. But speculation on these subjects can lead to satisfac­
tory conclusions only on the supposition that an extensive
comparison of organs has been instituted throughout the
whole of the animal kingdom.
(71.) A scientific knowledge ofthe organization andfunc­
tions of animals is valuable, not only in its application to
zoology, but also in reference to many other sciences, such
as geology, with which it might at first view appear to have
but little connexion. By attending to the arrangement of
mineral bodies as they occur in nature, we have sufficient
proofs that the earth has undergone frequent and conside­
rable changes prior to the existence of any living beings.
But we find, besides, a great number of strata, which con­
tain unequivocal remains of vegetable and animal bodies.
A large proportion of these are shells, exuviae of zoophytes,
and other marine animals. We also find, in other strata, a
multitude of fossil bones, and teeth of various quadrupeds
and reptiles; and occasionally, but more rarely, of birds and
fishes. Whole mountains and extensive districts appear to
be composed entirely of these animal remains. It is by the
aid of comparative anatomy and physiology alone that we
are enabled to compare these relics of antiquity with simi­
lar facts of living or recent animals, to discover their differ­
ences or identity, and to deduce certain conclusions with
regard to the nature, habits, and characters of the animals
to which they had belonged; and by studying their rela­
tion with the strata in which they are found, to draw infe­
rences with regard to the changes which must have taken
146 PHYSIOLOGY.
place in those parts of the earth, inferences which are of
the highest importance towards establishing a correct theory
of those changes. The difficulties attending researches of
this nature were ofcourse exceedingly great; but they have
been at length surmounted by the persevering zeal and in­
dustry of modern naturalists. In these arduous investiga­
tions Cuvier stands pre-eminent; and his labours have been
rewarded with a number of highly interesting results. The
great principle which he has assumed as the foundation of
his researches, is that every organized individual constitutes
a system of itself, of which all the parts are connected to
each other by certain definite relations. In passing from
each of these structures to that of other animals in the na­
tural series, we find that all the changes of form which take
place in any one organ are accompanieu by corresponding
alterations in the form of every other organ; so that by the
careful application of certain rules, deduced from this ob­
served reciprocal dependence of its functions, we are ena­
bled to ascertain with considerable certainty the forms and
habits of animals, of which only small fragments have been
preserved. We have already given an instance of this mode
of reasoning as applied to ruminant animals. By following
this guide Cuvier ascertained and classed the fossil remains
of nearly 1 0 0 different quadrupeds in the viviparous and ovi­
parous classes. Of these above seventy were distinct spe­
cies, hitherto unknown to naturalists.
It appears from these researches that] the earth has sus­
tained more numerous convulsions than hadbefore been sus­
pected, and that these must have been separated by consi­
derable intervals of tim e; that the ocean has deposited va­
rious strata in regular succession ; that the species of ani­
mals whose remains are found in these strata change with
APPLICATION TO GEOLOGY. 147
every variationinthe nature of the deposit, and become more
and more analogous with the living animals of the present
day, in proportion as the deposits have been of more recent
date. It appears from an examination of these fossil remains,
that the sea must have retired at intervals from the districts
it had formerly covered, and left dry land, affording habita­
tion for large quadrupeds; and that offer a certain unknown
space of time, the sea has suddenly returned to the same
spot, has destroyed all the terrestrial animals, and has form­
ed subsequent deposits of shells and other marine produc­
tions.
These sudden irruptionsand recessionsofthe ocean,which
have occurred several times in the same district, must have
been attended with extensive destruction of animal life.
Whole races have perished irretrievably, and are known to
us only by the durable memorials they have left behind of
their own existence, and of the several epochs of antedilu­
vian chronology.
(72.) The study of the fossil remains of animals has also
extended our views of the animal kingdom; it has in many
instances supplied chasms which had occurred in the natu­
ral series, and has enlarged our ideas of the extent of crea­
tive power* Another important conclusion which has re­
sulted is, that the human race has been the last created;
for nowhere do we find any vestiges[of human bones. These
researches tend also to throw light on the history of man­
kind, and to refute the pretensions to high antiquity which
have been arrogated by certain nations, and particularly the
Chinese, &c. which Voltaire and other modern philosophers
had so zealously defended. All that science has brought to
light, indeed, is in conformity with the testimony of the
cred writings, when rationally interpreted, and may eve]
148 PHYSIOLOGY.
adduced as illustration of their truth. Geology and compa­
rative physiology concur with these writings in teaching us
that man was the last act of creative power; that a great
catastrophetook place on the surface of the globe a fewthou­
sand years ago, duringwhich the sea covered for a time every
part of the land; and that the subsequent diffusion of the
population of the earth is of comparatively recent date. It
is pleasing to see conclusions, derived from such different
sources, converging to the same points, and affording each
other that reciprocal confirmation which is the invariable
concomitant and surest test of truth.
(73.) The enlarged views to which we are conducted by
the study of comparative physiology afford us a glimpse of
some of the plans or models of structv ^ which appear to
have been followed in the formation of the animal world.
The analogies of form discernible in corresponding organs,
throughout a very extensive series of tribes, have been late­
ly traced and developed with extraordinary care by the mo­
dem naturalists of the French and German schools, and es­
pecially by Cuvier, Blainville, Savigny, Geoffroi St. Hilaire,
Oken, Carus, and Milne Edwards. The conclusions they
have drawn from their labours,though sometimes overstrain­
ed, are always ingenious, and in general satisfactory; and
they strongly tend to prove, that several distinct types, or
standards of figure, have been adhered to in all the multi­
plicity of formswith which it has pleased the Author of na­
ture to diversify the animal creation.1
(74.) These inquiries, however, suggest still highersub­
jects of contemplation. They illustrate the connexion and
1 See the Bridgewater Treatise on Animal and Vegetable Physi­
ology, where this snbjet is enlarged upon, and especially the chapter
on « Unity o f Design.” VoL ii. p.625.
relationship ofevery part with the rest of the system. They
prove the unity of design with which the system has been
planned and executed. They demonstrate the perfection
with which all its parts are mutually adjusted, and the har­
mony which pervades the whole. The evidences of express
design and contrivance are so distinct and palpable, and they
so multiply and accumulate upon us as we advance,thatthey
may almost be said to obtrude themselves on ournotice; and
we cannot avoid being impressed with the notion of its be­
ing intended that we should observe them. Whilst the pur­
pose to be answered continues the same, the means are va­
ried in every possible manner, as if designedly to display to
us the exhaustless resources of inventive power, and the su­
preme intelligence with which that power is wielded. Nor
is it possible to overlook the general object to which every
thing so manifestly tends in the system of animal existence.
Every element in every part of the habitable globe, teems
with life, and that life is replete with enjoyment. Happiness
is unquestionably the great object ofanimal existence. The
benevolence which pervades the whole system of creation,
is no less conspicuous than the power and intelligence from
which it emanated. Revealed religion is thus in unison
with the theology derived from the contemplation of nature,
and the lights of modern science.
(75.) The facts derived from comparative physiology
which more especially support the arguments of naturalthe­
ology have been collected by authors who have written pro­
fessedly on the subject. Derham’s work, entitled Phy-
sie^Tkeolog^ has been deservedly held in estimation;
but since the time it was published, which is now above a
century, the scienceshave been prodigiously extended. Dr.
P<dey, in his N atural Theoiogy, baa produced a great mul-
H
APPLICATION TO NATUBAL THEOLOGY. 149
150 PHYSIOLOGY.
titude of facts and observations in support of the same ar­
guments, has applied them with singular felicity, and im­
pressed them with the most fascinating perspicuity and elo­
quence. But his object being purely theological, he has
not professed to adhere to any scientific order in stating
them. The design of the Bridgewater Treatise, already re­
ferred to, is to supply this desideratum, by presenting the
details ofanimal and vegetable physiology, arranged accord­
ing to the functions to which they relate, or in other words,
in reference to final causes. As theological arguments, the
value of these facts cannot fail to be better appreciated
when they are studied in all their bearings, and as forming
a part of the science to which they belong. It is by the
aid of genuine science alone, that we c jp avoid the danger­
ous error of building arguments, on so momentous a sub­
ject, upon equivocal or unstable foundations, and of injuring
a cause already established upon incontrovertible grounds,
by weak and inconclusive evidence.
(76.) It has beentoo hastilyinferred,from theabusewhich
has too often been made ofphilosophical inquiries, that they
are to be avoided as dangerous, and even pernicious; and
that of the fountain ofphilosophy, as of the Pierian spring
we should “ drink deep,” or abstain from tasting. Super­
ficial knowledge has often been decried as mischievous, and
extremely liable to abuse. The hackneyed maxim ofPope,
that “ a little knowledge is a dangerous thing,” has furnish­
ed a ready text for those who declaim against all attempts
to render science popular, and to include it as a branch of
generaleducation. Willingproselytestothisdoctrinewillal­
waysbefoundamongthosewhom indolence orfrivolityrender
averse to mental exertion, when bestowed on subjects not
immediately connected with the common concernsoflife, as
APPLICATION TO NATUBAL THEOLOGY. 151
well as among those who, already enjoying some of the ad­
vantages ofknowledge,are desirousofsecuringtothemselves
the monopoly ofthose advantages. But their sophistry is
soon detected when we examine into the real meaning of
the expressions they employ. What is commonly denomi­
nated superficial knowledge, may certainly be useless, or
even dangerous; but the mischief or danger arises, not be­
cause it is superficial, but because it is incorrect. It is error,
under the guise of knowledge that alone deserves such re­
probation. Thevalueof information is to be estimatedmuch
more by its accuracy, than by its extent Although it may
be true that there is no royal road to science, it is equally
true that many are the roads thatlead astray; and that much
fruitless labour may be spared by having that one pointed
out which leads directly to the object we wish to attain.
Though the distance we have to travel cannot be abridged,
yet the path may be rendered smoother, and the velocity of
our progress accelerated, by availing ourselves ofsuch guid­
ance as may be afforded by concise treatises, which, however
superficial in appearance, or popular in their garb, are yet,
as far as they go, perspicuous, accurate, and comprehensive.
152 PHYSIOLOGY.
CHAPTER III.
ABBANGEMENT OP FUNCTIONS.
(77.) The general review we have taken, in our intro­
ductory chapter, of the objects and mutual connexions of
the functions of the animal economy will furnish us with the
principles on which the methodical art \ngement and classi­
fication of those functions should be established. Various
attempts.have been made by different systematic writers on
physiology towards the accomplishment ofthat object $ but
they have generally been deficient in that logical precision,
which alone can ensure entire comprehensiveness of every
branch of the subject, and at the same time convey clear
perceptions of the bearings of every part to one another.
Some physiologists have limited their views to the human
economy, or that of animals which most nearly resemble
man; others have framed their systems so as to embrace the
whole animal kingdom, and even all beings endowed with
life. Some have been wholly governed by anatomical con­
siderations, regarding mere structure as the basis of phy­
siological distinctions; others, overlooking the unity ofpur­
pose in each function, and pursuing their subdivisions to an
excessive degree of minuteness, have overloaded the subject
by needless multiplication and superfluity of detail. Many
have introduced confusion by a'loose and vitious nomencla­
ARRANGEMENT OF FUNCTIONS. 153
ture, derived from partial or hypotheticalviews;which were
often tinctured with mysticism, and which, by biassing their
judgments, have betrayed them into a wide field of delusion
and of error.
(78.) Another source, to which the greater part of the
mistakes, pervading all the systems ofphysiological arrange­
ment that have been hitherto framed, may be traced, is in­
attention to the essential distinction which exists between
physical and final causes. The study of the phenomena of
life differs from all the other branches of philosophical in­
quiry, by its involving considerations relating to both these
kinds of causes; the latter ofwhich introduces a totally new
principleofarrangement,whollyinapplicableinthosesciences
which concern the physical properties ofinert and inorganic
matter. Therulesofastrictlyphilosophical induction,which
alone can guide our steps in the pursuit of these sciences,
must be greatly modified, and in some measure superseded,
by those derived from another department of human know­
ledge ; namely, psychology. The knowledge of those ge­
neral facts, which, when once established, and the conditions
on which they depend ascertained, constitute what are call­
ed the laws of nature, is obtained first, by comparing toge­
ther phenomena and uniting in one class such as are of the
same kind, and carefully separating them from others which
are essentially different 5 and next, by endeavouring to re­
move all extraneous influences, so as to reduce each class of
phenomena to its simplest conditions; an object to be at­
tained by experiments, that is, by varying the circumstances
tinder which they occur, and also by combining them in dif­
ferent ways, so as to enable us to verifyour theories, by com­
paring their results with the actual observation of nature.
But the attempt to apply the same process of induction to
154 PHYSIOLOGY.
the physiology of organised beings, is attended with pecu­
liar difficulty ; for while the changes which occur in the in­
organic world exhibit the operation of forces or agents cha­
racterized by their simplicity, their constancy, and their uni­
formity, the phenomena presented to our view by living be­
ings, so prodigiously varied in their form, so extensively
spread throughout every element, every clime, and every
habitable region of the globe, and so infinitely diversified in
their nature, and complicated in their connexions, are calcu­
lated to baffle the efforts of the most cautious reasoner, and
elude the penetration of the most sagacious inquirer after
truth. The resources ofexperimental research are here ex­
tremely narrowed, in consequence of the simultaneous and
connected operation ofa great number jfpowers, which pre­
vent us from studying the influence which each would ex­
ert when isolated from the rest, and ascertaining the laws
which are peculiar respectively to each. Hence it is that
we have hitherto made but very imperfect approaches to the
determination of those laws.
(79.) Some compensation is, however, afforded us, while
struggling with the obstacles which impede our progress in
the direct and thorny path ofscience, by the abundant re­
sources accessible to us in the psychological considerations,
which every where arise in this vast field of contemplation.
All the phenomena of organic beings reveal to us so palpa­
bly the indications of design,, that we cannot resist the im­
pression thus created in our minds ; nor can we avoid recog­
nising the connexions which are so established between the
objects and the changes theypresent,as being those ofmeans
employed for the accomplishment of certain ends. Thus,
then, the relation of means to endsbecomes a leading prin­
ciple of association among the facts of physiology; giving
ARRANGEMENT OP FUNCTIONS. 155
a new aspect to the science, and creating an interest of a
different and much higher kind, than could ever be inspired
by the study of mere physical relations. So deep has been
this impression, and so completely has the principle of final
causes been interwoven with the pursuits of physiologists,
that the study oftheJunctions o flife, that is, ofthe purposes
to which the actions constituting life are subservient, has
been almost universally regarded as the principal, if not the
sole object of the science. It has, accordingly, been as­
sumedas the basis ofarrangement, in all systematic treatises
of Physiology; and likewise in framing theories for explain­
ing the phenomena of life, physiologists have generally been
satisfied with pointing out their final, rather than their phy­
sical causes.
(80.) This natural proneness to substitute final for phy­
sical causes has been a frequent source of delusion,by insen­
sibly leading to the beliefthat we have reached the physical
law which regulates the phenomena we are viewing, when
we have, in fact, done nothing more than traced their rela­
tion to the intelligent agency by which they have been each
adjusted to their respective objects, and given that law a
name with reference to that agency ; thus, in our eagerness
to grasp at hidden knowledge, mistaking the shadow for the
substance.
(81.) Frequent instances of this confusion of ideas occur
in the writings of the older physiologists; but at all times
the predominant tendency has been to refer the phenomena
to their final causes; that is, to the purposes which they an­
swer in the animal economy. The functions were arranged
by the ancients into three classes, designated by the titles
of animal, vital, and natural; the first comprising those
powers of sensation and ofvoluntary motion which are more
156 PHY8I0L0GY.
especially characteristic of animal, as contradistinguished
fron\ vegetable life; the second, those powers, the continued
exercise of which are immediately necessary for the main­
tenance of life, such as respiration of the blood; and the
third, those which are directly concerned in the continuance
of‘its vital actions, but which are yet indispensable in pre­
serving the organs in the conditions enabling them to per­
form their respective offices, by supplying the materials re­
quisite for their nutrition, and for counteracting their ten­
dency to decomposition; in this class were included diges­
tion, secretion, and absorption. To these were added by
many, a fourth class, the generative, comprehending all the
functions which have for their object the continuance ofthe
species by the reproduction ofindivu pals similar to the pa­
rent animal. The principal objection to this arbitrary divi­
sion of the functions is, that the line cannot be drawn with
sufficient distinctness between what are called the vital and
the natural functions, their connexion with the maintenance
of life being one of degree only, and not ofkind 5 as is evi­
dent from their being united together in the lowest tribes
of the animal kingdom. This classification appears also to
be defective, inasmuch as it omits all notice of those func­
tions which have immediate reference to the mechanical
condition of the frame; conditions which are the foundation
of their physical capabilities of executing the operations as­
signed them in their respective places in the general system.
It is also liable to the imputation of employing terms to de­
signate the classes which are obviously incorrect, and bear
not the meaning they are intended to convey. In one sense,
and that which would first present itself to the mind, the
term animal functions would comprehend all the others, for
there are none in which powers peculiar to animal life are
ARRANGEMENT OF FUNCTIONS. 157
not called into play; and, on the other hand, the strictly
animal functions are equally entitled to the appellation of
vital, as being directly essential to the support of life; and
no specific meaning can attach to the term natural, as ap­
plied to any description of functions.
(82.) Vicq D’Azyr proposes to establish a preliminary
division of the functions into two great classes ; die first,
comprising those concerned in the preservation of the indi­
vidual ; and the second, those concerned in the preserva­
tion of the species. The former class he divides into two
orders; the first having for their object the assimilation of
food into the substance of the body, and designated as the
interior assimilative and nutritive functions; and the se­
cond, establishing the relations of the individual to sur­
rounding objects, and denominated the exterior or relative
functions.
The first of these orders comprises six genera; namely,
1 st, digestion, by which the nutritive particles arc extract­
ed from the food; 2 d, absorption, by which this nutritive
matter is conveyed into the blood; 3d, circulation, by which
it is carried to all the organs ; 4th, respiration, by which it
is exposed to the influence ofatmospheric air; 5th, secretion,
by which it is made to undergo various modifications; 6 th,
nutrition, by which it is applied to the organs for the pur­
poses of growth and nourishment.
The second order of the first class comprehends three
genera; namely, 1st, the sensations, which give to the in­
dividual notice of the presence of surrounding objects ; 2d,
the motions, which bring him towards, or remove him from
them; 3d, voice and speech, which enable him to commu­
nicate with his fellows without transporting his body to a
different place.
158 PHYSIOLOGY*
The second class, or the generative functions, likewise
comprise two orders; the first, including the functions of
conception and generation^ requiring the concourse of both
sexes; the second, including gestation, parturition, and
lactation,, performed exclusively by the female. To these
were subjoined by Vicq d’Azyr, as a kind of supplement to
his system, the several facts relating to the progressive
changes taking place during the advance of life from infan*
cy to decrepitude, through the ages of growth, of maturity,
and of decay, and to those which attend the absolute ex­
tinction of life, and the subsequent decomposition of the
organs.
The arrangement ofVicq d’Azyr is entitled to much com­
mendation, and has been followed in all its essential features
by Dumas, 1 Richerand, 2 and other systematic authors on
physiology, with the exception of Haller,8 who adopted a
classification of functions founded altogether on the anato­
mical relations of the organs by which they are performed.
(83.) Bichat, 1 whose original genius led him to disregard
the opinions of his predecessors, and to strike out for him­
self new paths of inquiry, aimed at giving greater simplicity
to physiological classification, by pursuing a more rigid ana­
lysis, and infusing a more philosophical spirit into the me­
thods of research. With this view he distributed the func­
tions into two classes, which he denominates respectively
the anim al and the organic; the former coinciding nearly
with those already known by that title; and the latter com­
prehending both the vital and the natural functions of pre­
ceding writers. Impressed, however, with the necessity of
drawing distinctions among the powers of life, he has per-
1Principe* de Physiologic. 2 EMmensde Physiologic.
8Primes Zineet Physiologies. 4Anatomie GMnSrale,
ARRANGEMENT OF FUNCTIONS. 159
plexed his system by intermixing with those final causes,
which he takes as the basis of his divisions, the results of a
philosophical analysis of those powers. He is thus led to
make continual efforts to establish a distinction between
muscular contractibility, which is one of the simple and ele­
mentary powers of life, when that power is employed in sub­
servience to the animal functions, and when it is subservient
to the functions of organic life; a distinction which regards
only the final, and not the physical causes of the pheno­
mena. Dumas1 has been guilty of a still more palpable er­
ror in deeming it necessary to add to his catalogue of prin­
ciples, consisting of the acknowledged powers of sensibility
and contractility, a third power, which he terms “ theforce
o f vital resistance thus associating a final cause in the
same rank with causes that are strictly physical.
(84.) To the animal and vital functions of Bichat, Cuvier
has added, in his physiological arrangement, a third class,
the generative, which cannot, indeed, be, with any proprie­
ty, included in any of the former. He still, however, falls
into a similar mistake as that of Dumas, which we havejust
now pointed out; for he describes sensibility and muscular
contractility not as primary principles, but both of them
functions of the nerves. Adelon2 distinguishes the follow­
ing eleven actions as being the functions of life; namely,
sensibility, locomotion, language, digestion, absorption, re.
spirationt circulation, calorification, secretion, and genera­
tion. Bourdon3 reduces them to seven, which are as fol­
lows : caloricite, nutrivite, absorptivity exkalativite, durabi­
lity reproductive, et resistabilite / thus presenting a strange
jumble between physical principles of action, and actions
1Principes de Physiologic. 8Physiologic de lHoms*.
9Principes de Physiologic MSdicale*
160 PHYSIOLOGY.
referred to definite purposes. The same confusion may be
remarked in the classification of the functions by Bedard, 1
who has arranged them into six classes, viz. nutrition in its
most extended sense, generation, muscular action, sensa­
tion, nervous action, and the functions of the intellect. But
it would be needless to multiply examples of this error, since
it will be found to pervade almost every physiological sys­
tem that has yet been framed, not excepting even that adopt­
ed by Dr. Bostock, in his valuable Elementary System o f
Physiology.
(85.) Dr. Bostock regards contractility and sensibility as
the two primary attributes of animal life, each equally cha­
racteristic of it, and peculiar to it, and each performed by
its appropriate organs. “ The functions,” he remarks, “ de­
pend on the exercise of these powers, and although proba­
bly, in all cases, they are both of them exercised, yet ge­
nerally one of them seems to be the principal agent, or the
prime cause of the ensuing operation ; we may consequent­
ly divide them into the contractile and sensitive functions,
or those which more directly belong to contractility and to
sensibility, and which, of course, serve respectively for mo­
tion and sensation, and to these two classes must be added
a third class of the intellectual functions.” Among the con­
tractile functions, the essence of which consists in motion,
Dr. Bostock considers the circulation as being the first in
point of importance, and the one which maybe regarded as
the most necessary to the direct support of life, and to the
indirect maintenance of all the rest. Next in importance
is respiration, which modifies the blood so as to adapt it to
the maintenance of life. After these two functions, by the
1 Element d'Anatomie.
ARRANGEMENT OF FUNCTIONS. 161
former of which the blood is carried to all the parts of the
body, and by the latter of which it acquires its vital proper­
ties, Dr. Bostock places those of calorification, secretion, di­
gestion, including assimilation and sanguification, and ab­
sorption, functions which contribute, he observes, to the
continuance ofthe motion of the animal machine, and which
preserve all its parts in their proper condition, without, how­
ever. being essential to the immediate support of life. In
this class he places the function of generation, which, al­
though one of the most inexplicable of all the operations
that are performed by the animal powers, and acting in a
specific manner of which we have no other example, may
be considered as essentially consisting in secretion.
The sensitive functions are divided by Dr. Bostock into
two classes ; first, those which originate in the action of the
external agents on the nervous system; and, secondly, those
of a reverse kind, which depend on the reaction of the ner­
vous system on these agents. In the first of these divisions
are included what are called the external senses, the sight,
hearing, taste, smell, and touch; and in the same division
must be placed the sensation of hunger, that of tempera­
ture, and some others, which have not been correctly dis­
criminated from general feeling, but which possess specific
characters. In the second class, those functions which de­
pend on the reaction of the nervous system on external
bodies, he places volition; and to the same class he also re­
fers instinct, association, sympathy, habit, and some other
faculties of a similar kind, which appear to hold an inter­
mediate rank between the corporeal actions and those of a
purely intellectual nature. As the functions which com­
pose the first of these classes may be all referred to a spe­
cies of perception, so the latter may be considered as more
162 PHYSIOLOGY.
or less analogous to volition ; in the former, the effect on
the nervous system, whatever it may be, is propagated
from the extremities to the centre $ in the latter, it pro­
ceeds in the opposite direction, from the centre to the ex­
tremities of the body.
The intellectual functions compose, in this arrangement,
the third class. These, Dr. Bostock observes, are a less
direct object of physiology than the two former, yet many
ot them are so closely connected with the physical changes
of the body as to require being included in a complete view
of the animal economy. Among those intellectual opera­
tions which possess a decided action on the corporeal frame,
he places the passions ; and also refers to this class that
compound of mental and physical indue ice, from which re­
sults what are called temperament and character. These
lead to the consideration of functions of a more purely in­
tellectual kind, which, as they recede from the corporeal,
and advance towards the mental part of our frame, are less
within the province of the physiologist, and belong more
to the metaphysician or the moralist.
( 8 6 <) Dr. Alison1 has adopted a principle of arrange­
ment, which, though differing in some of its applications, is
essentially the same as that of Dr. Bostock, as it is derived
from the analysis of the phenomena of life into certain pow­
ers ; or, if these phenomena be considered as the results of
a single principle, which we may denominate vitality, the
study of physiology will resolve itself into an inquiry into
the conditions under which the various phenomena of life
take place, that is, into the laws o f vitality. These laws
are ranked by Dr. Alison under three heads: 1 . Those of
1 Outlines o f Physiology and Pathology. Edinburgh, 163$.
ABBANGEMENT OB FUNCTIONS. 163
vital contractions9 by which the visible movements of liv­
ing animals are chiefly effected: 2 . Those of vital affini­
ties, by which the chemical changes peculiar to living ani­
mals are determined, and their physical structure maintain­
ed : 3. Those of nervous actions, by which the physical
changes in living animals are placed in connexion with
mental phenomena, and subjected to the control of mental
acts. The first and third of these divisions correspond to
those of Dr. Bostock, which he has denominated the con­
tractile and the sensitive functions. The second division
of Dr. Alison is founded on the principle pointed out by the
writer of the present article, in a treatise on Physiology
which appeared many years ago in the last Supplement to
this work, and to which he gave the designation of the or­
ganic affinities.
Dr. Alison considers that the movement of the fluids, in
all the higher classes of animals, is in a great measure de­
pendent on vital contractions in certain of their solids, and
may accordingly be regarded as the first and most impor­
tant consequence of the exercise of the vital power. This
subject he divides into two parts 5 first, the movement of
the mass of blood in the heart, arteries, and veins, or the
function of circulation $ and, secondly, the continual evolu­
tion of matters from, and absorption of matters into, the
mass of blood; or the functions of nutrition, exhalation,
secretion, and absorption, to which the circulation is sub­
servient, and on which all the other functions are depend­
ent. The study of these nutritive functions naturally in­
troduce the consideration of the properties of the different
textures and secretions which are formed from the blood,
and which are the materials combined in the construction
of the organs themselves.
164 PHYSIOLOGY.
The nervous system has been endowed with peculiar
properties or powers, in order that it may be the seat, and
the instrument, of mental acts. These mental acts, and all
the functions in which they bear a necessary share, consti­
tute, according to Dr. Alison, the animal life, or animal
functions. As in all animals the reception of food into the
digestive organs, and in all vertebratcd animals, and many
of the inferior orders, in the adult, the reception of air into
the respiratory organs is accomplished by movements which
are excited through the intervention of sensations and of
instincts and volitions; he considers the commencement
of the processes of respiration and digestion in them as be­
longing to the province of animal life, and as dependent on
the nervous system. Dr. Alison, ther fore, commences his
account of the animal functions, with the consideration of
respiration, animal heat, and digestion, which he refers to
that class: proceeding afterwards to notice the physiology
of the external senses, of the mental faculties, voluntary
and instinctive motion, the involuntary action of the mind
on the body, sleep and the analogous states of somnam­
bulism, reverie, and other irregular actions of the nervous
functions. The subjects of generation, and the peculiari­
ties of age, sex, and temperament, occupy the concluding
chapters of his work.
(87.) The order in which Mr. Mayo has treated of the
functions,1differs but little from that adopted by Dr.Alison.
(88.) The author of this article has given, in his Bridge-
water Treatise,2 an arrangement of the functions founded
altogether on the basis of final causes: and corresponding
1 Outlines o f Human Physiology, 3d edition, London, 1833.
* Roget, Animal and Vegetable Physiology, considered with reference
to N atural Theology, two vole. London, 1834.
ARRANGEMENT OF FUNCTIONS. 165
therefore with the views, which have been explained in the
preceding chapter, of the relative subordination of purposes
which the functions are designed to answer in the econo­
my ; and not limited to human physiology, but embracing
all the different forms and modifications which those func­
tions present in the animal kingdom. Taking them in the
order of their increasing complexity, he has distributed
them into the four following classes; namely, first, the
mechanicalJunctions, which include the consideration of all
the circumstances relating to the mechanism of the frame
and of its different organs; the arrangements provided for
procuring the proper cohesion, strength and mobility re­
quisite for the different actions they have to perform; and
also for the preservation of their connexions, support, se­
curity and other mechanical conditions adapted to the ex­
ercise of their respective functions. To this head are also
referred the operation of the moving powers, derived prin­
cipally from muscular contractility, by which the various
parts of this system of machinery are set in motion.
Secondly, the nutritive, or chemical functions, corres­
ponding to what has been formerly denominated the vital
functions ; and the object of which is the preservation of
the organs in those states of chemical composition which
enable them to sustain life, and to perform their destined
offices in the economy. The functions by which, in the
higher orders of animals, this object is accomplished, may
be arranged under the following heads; each, however,
admitting of further subdivision. 1. Assim ilation, includ­
ing the processes which prepare the food for digestion, chy-
mijication, which is the office of the stomach, and chyliji-
cation, which is performed in the intestines. 2. Lacteal
absorption, by which the chyle so prepared, is collected in­
166 PHYSIOLOGY*
to the heart and blood-vessels. 3. Circulation, by which
the blood, or nutrient fluid, is regularly diffused over the sys­
tem. 4. Respiration, or the aeration of the blood. 6. Se­
cretion, by which the properties of that fluid are modified.
6. Excretion, by which various chemical principles are se­
parated from the blood, and discharged from the system.
7. Absorption, by which substances are conveyed from dif­
ferent parts back again into the general mass of circulating
fluids. 8. Nutrition, by which the nutritive matter is ap­
plied to the growth or restoration of the various organs of
the body, so as to maintain them in the state which enables
them to discharge their proper functions. 9* For effecting
all these various processes, the agency of a peculiar power,
derived from the properties of the nervous system, is requi­
site. This may be termed the nervous pmcer, in contradis­
tinction to those actions of the same system, which have
reference to mental phenomena, and which come under the
next class of functions.
Thirdly, the sensorial Junctions comprehends all those
corporeal changes in which the mind is concerned; and
consequently include those of sensation, of perception, of
volition, and all those intellectual functions which employ
for their agency the physical organization of the body.
Fourthly, the reproductiveJunctions, which have for their
object the continuance of the species, and the multiplica­
tion of its numbers. This subject is naturally connected
with the progressive developement of the organs, the growth
of the body from infancy to manhood $ and the stages of its
decline, till all the vital phenomena cease by the death of
the individual.
THE VITAL POWERS. 167
CHAPTER IV.
THE VITAL POWERS.
(89*) We have already remarked, that there are two ways
in which the assemblage of phenomena presented to us by
living beings may be studied. We may, in the first place,
view these as mere physical phenomena, applying to them
the same methods of induction which have been employed
with so much success in other departments ofnatural science.
The object of philosophical induction is the reference of
the events occurring in nature to their proper causes. This
is accomplished by comparing the phenomena together, ob­
serving in what they agree, and in what they differ, classing
them in the order of their agreement; and distinguishing
them according to their differences. The result ofthis pro­
cess, when it has been carried as far as the extent of our
mass of facts will allow, is the establishment of certain ge­
neral relations between these facts, or conditions, under
which they occur, and which we may consider as so many
laws o f nature: and any appearance we may afterwards
meet with which corresponds in its character to any single
law, or combination ofthese laws, is at once referred to them,
and considered as a particular instance or exemplification of
these laws. When we can succeed in tracing these coin­
cidences with a previously established law or general fact,
168 PHYSIOLOGY.
we are said to have discovered its cause. Philosophy, in
this sense, then, comprehends the collection and comparison
of phenomena, their classification, the establishment by care­
ful induction of general laws 5 the verification of these laws
by experiment; and lastly, the subsequent reference of par­
ticular phenomena to their appropriate laws.
(90.) In the sciences which relate to the laws of matter
in its inorganic state, this inductive method of philosophis­
ing admits of being pursued to an indefinite extent, and with
comparative facility. The phenomenon themselves, which
are the subjects of induction, are of a simple and more de­
finite character than those of animal or vegetable life; they
are generally more under our control • and more easily sub­
jected to the test of experiment. The endless variety of
the forms of life, the extent and intricacy of the connexions
between the different parts of the animal system, introduce
a degree of complexity in the phenomena, incomparably
greater than is ever met with in the combinations of inor­
ganic matter. We shall accordingly find that the know­
ledge we have hitherto acquired of the physical laws which
govern the vital phenomena, is as yet exceedingly imperfect.
(91.) In entering upon the philosophical study of the
phenomena presented to us in the living body, and carefully
arranging them according to the rules of induction, and
without reference to the final causes that connect them, (a
subject which forms a totally different branch of inquiry,)
we easily recognize the operation of many of those powers
and principles to which inorganic matter is also subjected.
The living system, with all its complicated apparatus of so­
lids and fluids, is obedient to the universal,laws of gravita­
tion, of cohesion, of elasticity, of capillary attraction, &c.,
$ 6 well as to the ordinary principles of mechanics, hydro­
THE VITAL POWERS. 169
statics, hydraulics, and pneumatics, which result from com­
binations of these laws; and we may pursue the application
of these laws to the mechanism of the body, as far as no
other causes intervene, without danger of error.
(92.) The laws of chemistry apply also, to a certain ex­
tent, to the changes which are going on in the living sys­
tem ; but in tracing the operation of these laws, we soon
become sensible of the apparent interference of other prin­
ciples which seem to control the ordinary chemical affinities
which the same kinds of matter are found to exert when
deprived of life. Here, then, we perceive a sensible devi­
ation from the course of phenomena exhibited by inorganic
matter; and we are forced to recognize the existence of
new and unknown powers peculiar to, and characterizing
the living state. We discern the operation of such powers
in the processes of digestion, of sanguification, of nutrition,
of secretion, of the growth and organization of the various
structures that compose the fibres of the body. Powers of
a similar kind are exhibited in the phenomena of vegeta­
tion : they seem, therefore, to attach to vitality in all its
forms. In order to distinguish them from the ordinary che­
mical affinities to which they are so frequently opposed, we
shall designate them by the name of Organic Affinities, al­
though, as we shall afterwards attempt to shew, they pro­
bably do not differ in their kind, but only in the circum­
stances and conditions ofaction, from the ordinary inorganic
affinities.
(93.) Another power which more peculiarly appertains
to animal life is Contractility. This is especially a property
of those fibres which*compose the muscles. It is often de­
nominated Irritability, a name originally given to it by
Glisson, but which has justly been objected to by Dr. Bos-
170 PHY8I0L0 GY•
tock as a term employed in many different senses, accord-'
ing as it is applied in physiology, pathology, or ethics.
Haller speaks of it frequently under the designation of the
Vis insita. The term Contractility, adopted by Dr. Bos-
tock,1and sanctioned by many other eminent physiologists,
is in itself unobjectionable, and has the advantage of being
a simple expression of the fact itself. It consists in the
spontaneous shortening of muscular fibres, in consequence
of the impression of certain agents termed stim uli, by a
power residing in the fibres themselves, and which operates
with a force greatly superior to any of the ordinary mecha­
nical sources of motion.
(94.) The remarkable property which the nerves possess
of conveying with electric celerity impression! Wadeon one
of their extremities, or even on any part of them, to the
opposite extremity, and to other parts in the line of their
course, the influence of which impressions are renderedap­
parent by certain effects, such as the contraction of the
muscles, increased or modified action of the blood-vessels,
absorbents, and organs of secretion, and the evolution of
animal heat. All these effects may take place from impres­
sions, or irritations} (by which term is meant impressions
of a certain degree of intensity,) which do not excite sen­
sation, or volition, or any other mental change; and they
even occur after the destruction or removal of those parts
of the nervous system which are connected with affections
of the mind. A power of the same kind is also possessed
by those nerves which are connected with the sensorium,
on the parts in immediate connexion with the sentient
principle.
* Elementary System q f Physiology, third edition, pp. 91,92*
THE VITAL POWERS. 171
(95.) It is by the exertion of this power that impressions
made on those nervous filaments which are instrumental in
sensation, and especially if made on their extremities which
are distributed to the organs of the external senses, are in­
stantly transmitted to the sensorium, in which they may be
said to terminate, and the changes produced in which are
attended by the mental affection termed sensation. In like
manner, certain other changes in the sensorium, consequent
on volition, which is a mental affection, are followed by the
contraction of certain muscles, by means of some unknown
influence communicated through the medium of certain
other nervous filaments having their origin in the sensorium,
and their termination in those muscles. The nature of the
power by which these transmissions are effected in the course
of each of these sets of nervous filaments, judging from the
similarity of the circumstances under which it takes place,
especially in the instantaneousness of the effect, is probably
the same in every case; the only perceptible difference in
the mode in which it is exerted consisting in the direction
of the transmission. This remarkable power, which is to­
tally distinct from any mental effect that may accompany
its exertion, we shall distinguish by the name of the ner­
vous power»
(96.) A fourth power, perfectly distinct from any of the
former, although it also belongs to a portion of the nervous
system, is that from which the corporeal changes which take
place in those parts immediately connected with sensation,
volition, and the intellectual operations, proceed. To this
specific property, which should be carefully distinguished
from the mere faculty oftransmission possessed by the fibres
of the nerves, the name of sensorialpower has been given.
1 7 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
We are indebted to Dr. Wilson Philip forthe establishment*
of this important distinction in the specific powers of the
nervous system, and for having bestowed upon it the above
appropriate designation. The same term had, indeed, been
employed by physiologists in a different and much more
extended sense, as intruding muscular irritability, which had
been regarded as in some way or other analogous to ner­
vous power. In the sense in which we shall use the term,
it is meant to apply exclusively to those physiological chan­
ges occurring in certain parts of the nervous system, which
produce or accompany changes or affections of the mind.
(97.) It is evident that the astonishing properties belong­
ing to the refined organization of the brain, which consti­
tute sensorial power, and which are, in a manner utterly in­
comprehensible to us, connected with the affections of the
sentient and intelligent principle,present subjectsoffarhigh­
er interest than even the organic, muscular, or nervous
powers, and are infinitely more remote from the ordinary at­
tributes of matter.
(98«) Thus we may perceive that the system of the liv­
ing body exhibits not only a multiplicity of new powers,
which we no where meet with in unorganized matter, but al­
so presents us with a gradation of powers ascending from
those of a mechanical nature, but yet derived from highly
artificial arrangement of particles, to those of a refined and
elaborate chemistry silently at work in the secret laborato­
ries of the body ; rising again to principles of a still .more
elevated order, acting through the medium of the nerves ;
till we lose ourselves in the more lofty contemplation ofthose
mysterious agencies, which confer on the central portions
*of the nervous system the power of exciting sensation;
THE VITAL POWERS. 173
which render them instruments of thought and of volition,
and which stamp on the being they compose the distinctive
character of individuality.
(99*) Viewed with reference to their subserviency to final
causes, it is to the sensorial powers, which confer the capa­
city of enjoyment, that the supreme rank in point of impor­
tance must be assigned. The faculties ofsensation, of vo­
luntary motion, and of enjoyment, are the only ultimate
ends for which, as far as we can judge, the animal has been
created and endowed with life. Those ultimate ends of its
being are attained primarily by the sensorial powers; and
to the maintenance of these are the muscular and the ner­
vous powers subservient. Of these latter powers it is also
evident that the muscular is placed in obedience to the ner­
vous, in the same manner as the nervous is obedient to the
sensorial power. Thus, the views now presented of the
classification and distribution of the physical powers which
operate in producing the phenomena of life, are in strict ac­
cordance and harmony with the results obtained from the
consideration of final causes, which we have already pre­
sented in our preliminary chapter.
(100.) If the analysis we have here offered of the vital
powers, that is, of powers peculiar to the phenomena oflife,
and the distinctions we have endeavoured to establish be­
tween them be correct, we shall be enabled at once to de­
tect the fallacy of those views of life, and of those defini­
tions of the vital principle which are generally received; and
which, we apprehend, have been laid down in violation of
the just rules of philosophical induction. The truth is, dis*
guise it how we may by a vain parade of words, that the real
state of the science is not sufficiently advanced to authorise
that degree of generalization which these definitions would
174 * H Y 8I 0L 0G l f .
imply. We are certainly not warranted, by the phenomena
already known, in regarding life as the effect of any single
power. The attempt of Brown, of Hunter, and of Bichat
to reduce the science to this state of simplification, though
highly ingenious, are yet premature; and have, it is to be
feared, had rather the effect of retarding than of advancing
the progress of real science.
(101.) Many of the older physiologists entertained the
notion of a principle, endowed with qualities in some mea­
sure partaking of intelligence, and as if it were a spirit pre­
siding over and governing the vital actions. Such was the
idea attached by Van Halmont, and by Stahl, to the prin­
ciple which they termed the archceus, or 4 yma, and which
they conceived regulated the operations of the different
powers of the system $ an assumption which, however natu­
rally suggesting itself to the mind, while contemplating the
harmonious adjustments that pervade every part of the ani­
mal economy, is in no respect a philosophical explanation
of the phenomena, and is even utterly irreconcilable with
some of these phenomena. In like manner, the vis medi-
ratrix natures, which Hofiman and Cullen have so largely
employed in their pathological theories, and which suppli­
ed them with ready^ solutions of every obscure morbid
change that embarrassed them, was, in fact, nothing more
than a branch of the same doctrine. Nor have the more
sober theorists of modern times been sufficiently on their
guard against this illusion. In the attributes which John
Hunter ascribes to his vita lprinciple, we may continually
trace the same want of discrimination between that intelli­
gence, by which the conditions of organization were origi­
nally adjusted to a variety of contingent circumstances, and
those physical agents, by the instrumentality of which the
THE VITAL POWERS. 175
intended objects are attained. When it is said, for exam­
ple, in the language of this school, that the coagulation of
the blood is occasioned by “ the stimulus of necessity,9
9 it
is clearly the final cause alone which is indicated, while the
real physical cause is not assigned; and it is also evident
that no advance is thereby made towards its discovery. to
This
principle o f life, with which organized beings are endowed,
is represented as a new power, which modifies and controls
the operation of those simpler physical laws, to which the
same matter, in its unorganized state, is subjected; a pow­
er which imposes new cohesive and repulsive forces on the
solid materials of the animal or vegetable structures, which
imparts to the fluids a new property of coagulation,'which
alters the order of chemical affinities between their elements
or primary compounds, retaining them, contrary to their
natural tendencies, in a certain state of equilibrium, and re­
sisting the agency of causes usually tending to destroy that
state: and, lastly, which produces, in a degree correspond­
ing with the wants of the system, either an evolution or an
absorption of caloric. All these, it must be admitted, are
purposes of manifest utility, being directly conducive to the
welfare of the individual, and indeed essential to its contin­
uance in the living state. In as far as they are means con­
ducive to specific ends, the reference of all these pheno­
mena to one class cannot be objected to. The fallacy lies
in regarding it as a philosophical generalization of effects
of a similar kind, resulting from the operation of a simple
power in nature; for between many of these effects, con­
sidered as mere physical phenomena, there exists not the
remotest similarity. But it is the fundamental principle of
the method of induction, that similar effects alone are to be
ascribed to the agency of the same physical cause. Judg*
176 PHYSIOLOGY.
ing, therefore, from the observed effects, which differ wide­
ly in their nature from each other, we ought to infer the
operation of several distinct powers, the concurrence of
which is requisite to produce the complex phenomena in
question. We are, no doubt, unavoidably led to view these
phenomena as conjoined, because we witness (heir existing
combinations, and perceive that they are tending to the ac­
complishment of a specific purpose; namely, the preserva­
tion and welfare of the being to which they relate. But
this unity of design is an attribute, not of matter, but of
intellect, and does not necessarily imply the unity of the
agent employed in their production.
(102.) We may take as an example, the phenomena of
the circulation of the blood, which, when viewed with re­
lation to that function, form together so beautiful and har­
monious a system. These phenomena, taken abstractedly,
are ultimately resolvable into such as result from a few ge­
neral powers, as muscular contractility, membranous elas­
ticity, the hydraulic properties of the blood, &c. The phe­
nomena of digestion, in like manner, when subjected to an­
alysis, are found to be results of the combined agencies of
the muscular action of the stomach and intestines, of the
chemical powers of the gastric juice, the bile, &c. of the
organic powers of secretion, and so forth; all of which con­
cur in the production of a definite ofegeet, namely, the con­
version of the aliment into chyle. The combined processes
subservient to this purpose, constitute, when viewed in their
relation to final causes, the function of digestion.
(103.) However the laws which regulate the vital phe­
nomena may appear, on a superficial view, to differ from
*those by which the physical changes taking place in inor­
ganic matter are governed, still a more profound investiga-
THE VITAE POWEKS. 177
tion of their real character will shew that, when viewed ab­
stractly from the consideration of final causes, there is real­
ly no essential difference between them, either as to their
comprehensiveness, their uniformity of action, or the mode
in which they are to be established by the generalization of
particular facts.1 The difficulty of effecting these induc­
tive generalizations is undoubtedly incomparably greater-in
the former than in the latter; but this difficulty is similar
to that which impedes our progress in all cases where the
existing combinations which are the objects of study, are
too numerous and too complicated to yield to our powers of
analysis. We have examples of this difficulty in many
branches of physical science 5 in meteorology, for example,
where no one can doubt that the phenomena are the results
of the ordinary physical powers, of the laws ofwhich we are
tolerably cognisant; but the operations of which, in effect­
ing the daily and hourly changes ofatmospheric phenomena,
have hitherto baffled the most persevering and penetrating
inquiries directed to this highly important branch ofphysics.
There is, in like manner, no distinct evidence of the material
particles, which compose the organized and living fabric,
being actuated by any powers or principles different from
those which are inherent in them, in their ordinary or in­
animate state. They are, in both cases, obedient to certain
definite physical laws, the operation ofwhich is determined
by the peculiar cirtftpnstances of their mode of combination,
and the peculiar conditions under which they are brought in­
to action. % •*
(104.) It may, in like manner, be contended, that the af­
finities which hold together the elements of living bodies,
1 See an Essay by Mr. Carpenter on the difference of the Laws
regulating Vital and Physical Phenomena, Edinburgh New Philoso­
phical Journal, xadv. 027.
17B PHYSIOLOGY.
and which govern the elaboration of organic products, are
thesamewith thosewhich preside overinorganic compounds;
and that the designations of organic and vital affinities are
expressive only«of peculiarities attending the circumstances
and conditions under which they are placed, but do not
imply any real difference in the nature of the powers them­
selves. If our knowledge of these circumstances and con­
ditions were complete, their identity would be at once re­
vealed to us ; but until that period, which must be very far
distant, has arrived, we must be content with gathering a
few indications, which occasionallybreak out from the clouds
ofmysteryin which thesubjectis obscured, ofthe similarity.of
operation between these two apparently contending powers,
the ordinary chemical, and the extraordinary vital affinities.
Every fresh discovery in animal and vegetable chemistry, by
shewing the mutual convertibility of many of the proximate
principles of organic compounds, adds to the numberofthose
indications. Hence it becomes every day more and more
probable that the forces immediately concerned in the pro­
duction of chemical changes in the body, are the same as
thosewhich are in constant operation in the inorganic world;
and that we are not warranted in the assertion that the oper­
ations of vital chemistry are directed by distinct laws, and
are the results of new agencies.
(105.) We are therefore led to the conclusion, that the
vital properties are not, as it is commonly expressed, super-
added to matter in the process of organization, but are the
result of the material constitution, that is, of the peculiar
combinations and arrangement of the ultimate molecules of
the organized tissues, which call out and develope the pro­
perties previously existing in those molecules, but which
cannot be effective unless tbeBe circumstances-exist.
(106.) However natural it may be to conceive the exist­
THE VITAL POWERS. 179
ence ofa single and presiding principle of vitality, we should
recollect that this, in the present [state of our knowledge,
is only a fiction of the mind, not warranted by the pheno­
mena themselves, in which we perceive so much real diver­
sity, and therefore inadmissible as the result of a philoso­
phical induction. We find that vitality ceases in different
textures, at different periods, prior to the total extinction of
life ; a phenomenon which appears scarcely compatible with
the unity of any such power.
(107.) It is well known that attempts have in like manner,
from time to time, been made to reduce the phenomena of
the inorganic world to a single primordial law; instead of
being content to refer them to the operation of distinct laws,
such as those of gravitation, cohesion, elasticity, light, heat,
electricity, magnetism, and chemical affinity. The pheno­
mena usually ascribed to these great powers of nature have,
for instance, been considered as resolvable into one univer­
sal principle of attraction. By other philosophers, they have
been regarded as the effects of a general and sole power of
repulsion. None ofthese simplifications are as yet warrant­
ed by facts; and equally vain, in the present state of the
science, is the endeavour to reduce all the vital phenomena
to one single law. It is possible, or perhaps even probable,
that future researches may be successful in establishing the
identity of some of the powers we now conceive to be dis­
tinct, with other powers already known. Thus, in the
physical sciences, the recent discoveries that have taken
place in electro-magnetism, have satisfactorily established
the identity of the magnetic and electric agencies. The
same may possibly be accomplished in future times, with re­
gard to heat and light, which are already connected together
by so many analogies. But no such approximation can yet
180 PHYSIOLOGY.
be attempted with any prospect of success, between the
muscular, the nervous, the sensorial, and the organic powers.
No speculative ingenuity can reduce them to a single phy­
sical power; nor can we establish any kind of association
between them, but by the consideration of another and a
totally different class ofrelations, namely, those they bear to
the general object which they combine to produce. This,
however, is to substitute final for physical causes; a mode
of procedure which we have seen, is totally at variance with
the principles of philosophical induction. It is physical
causes only which are the legitimate objects of philosophi­
cal analysis, and the true bases of the physical sciences.
(108.) We shall now proceed to give an account of each
separatefunction; takingtheminthe order* f their respective
simplicity, with reference not only to their objects, but also
to the powers which are concerned in their accomplishment.
We shall accordingly begin with the consideration of the
mechanicalJunctions, as being more simple in their char­
acter, and implying the operation of the simpler powers of
organization; together with the peculiar faculty of muscular
contractility, which is the great source of mechanical power
provided for carrying on the greater movements of the
machine. We shall, in the second place, review that class
of functions which depend more especially on the operation
of the organic affinities, and which have for their objects
the nutrition and extension of the organs, and their main­
tenance in that state of chemical, as well as mechanical
condition, which fit them for the performance of their re­
spective offices. We shall then be properly prepared for
the study of that higher class of functions, which appertain
to sensation^ andall the other faculties connected with mind;
functions which imply, in addition to all the powers concern­
the vital poweus. 181
ed in the preceding functions, others of a superior order,
butwhich, although in the highest degree interesting and im­
portant, are incomparably the most obscure and complex of
all. Our attention will, in the last place, be directed to the
functions relating to reproduction, the study of which re­
quires a previous knowledge of every other department of
physiology.
] 82 PHYSIOLOGY,
CHAPTER V.
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS.
Sect I.— On Organization in general.
(110.) If we analyze the ideas attached to the term or­
ganization, we find that it implies, as its essential condition,
a specific arrangement of parts, adapted to some particular
purpose, and composing by their assemblage, an individual
system endowed with life. It seems impossible, therefore,
to attach the idea of organization to a mere fluid, because
the mechanical condition of die particles of a fluid is such
as to preclude the capability of any permanent arrangement.
It appears to be essential to every organized structure, that
there shall be solid parts provided for containing those
which are fluid. All animal bodies accordingly, are com­
posed ofsolids and fluids; the former being more permanent
in their nature and arrangement, and constituting the basis
by which the general form of the body is determined; and
the latter, being lodged in appropriate cavities formed by
the solids, but capable by their mobility ofundergoing more
rapid changes of place, and of chemical composition.
(111.) It may in general be said, that the solids bear but
a small proportion to the fluids, which enter into the com­
position of the body. It is difficult, however, to determine
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS* 183
the exact proportion which they bear to one another; in
the first place, because this proportion is not fixed, and ad­
mits of variation in different ages, circumstances, and con­
ditions of the system; and, secondly, because it 'is scarcely
possible to effect the complete separation of these two con­
stituent portions ; partly from the ready conversion of the
solids into fluids, and vice versa, and partly from the tena­
city of their mutual adhesion. Some estimate of this pro­
portion has been attempted to be formed, by carefully drying
the dead body in a stove, or oven; and the result of some
experiments has been, that in an adult man, the weight of
the fluids is to that ofthe solids, as six to one, or, according
to other experiments, as nine to one. From the examina­
tion of an adult Egyptian mummy, which may be supposed
to contain nothing but the dry fibres ofthe body, a still lower
proportion has been assigned to the solid part; since this
mummy weighed only seven pounds and a half.1
(112.) The possibility of reducing all the organic tex­
tures of the human body to one elementary material, which
might be regarded as the basis of the whole, was long a
favourite subject of speculation among anatomists: and
Haller has devoted to it the first section of his great work
on Physiology.8 He conceives that all the solid parts of
the frame are ultimately composed of fibres; the animal
fibre being the simplest form of organized matter, and being
to the physiologist, what the line is to the geometrician, that
from which all other figures are produced. This simple
fibre, he observes, is invisible, even with the assistance of
the microscope; it is only by the union of the primary fibres,
that visible fibres are constituted; and from the assemblage
4 See Bedard, EUmens de Anatomie GJntrale, p. 77. *
1 Eiemenia Physiologic Corporis Humani,
i 84 PHYSIOLOGY.
and lateral adhesion of these, again, thin plates of animal
substance are formed, while the grosser substance of the
organs themselves, is composed of a complicated contexture
of these plates and fibres. This supposed basis, or essential
constituent, of all animal textures, has been by some term*
ed the m im ed parenchyma, and by others, has been desig­
nated by the general name of anim al membrane.
(113.) Besides this spongy or areoiated texture, which
composes by far the greater bulk of the organs of the body,
Haller has also admitted two other constituent parts, name­
ly the muscular, and the nervous substances. These views
have since been generally adopted by physiologists, with
some slight modifications. Many have thought it necessary
to introduce, in addition to the preceding, an element which
they consider as of a tubular form, constituting vessels fitted
to contain fluids. This was the favourite doctrine of Boer-
haave, who supposed that the simple fibres, or the smallest
into which they can be conceived to be divisible, formed
by their lateral adhesion, a membrane of the first order,
which, when coiled up into a tube, would constitute a vessel
of the first order. These vessels, again, when interwoven
together, composed a new order of membranes, by the du­
plication of which a second order of vessels was formed.
Successive series of membranes and vessels were thus con­
structed, until they acquired a magnitude sufficient to be
visible to the eye. According to this hypothesis, therefore,
all the parts of the body might ultimately be resolved into
a congeries of vessels, arranged in these ascending orders.
This hypothesis, which evidently rested on the most vision­
ary basis, has been ably refuted by Albinus, and by Haller.
It has, however, left some traces in the opinions expressed
by many subsequent anatomists, who still cherished the idea
‘ THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 185
of the universal vascularity of the animal fabric, and of this
vascularity being essential to organization. The skilful in­
jections of Ruysch, who succeeded in introducing coloured
fluids into vessels, the contents of which are naturally tran­
sparent, had long ago shown that there exists an order of
vessels too minute to be otherwise detected. Dr. William
Hunter has, even in later times, adopted the opinion that
every living part is necessarily vascular; and that where
there is no circulation, there can be no life. Mascagni was
also a strenuous advocate of the hypothesis of the universal
vascularity of the animal textures; but he conceived that
every part is made up of a congeries of minute lymphatic
vessels. We shall have occasion afterwards to point out the
fallacy of these views.
(114.) Although the analysis of animal tissues, into the
three primitive elements we have pointed out, namely, into
the membranous, the muscular, and the nervous fibres, be
founded on the most prominent and well marked features
of distinction which they exhibit, yet there are perhaps other
kinds of texture also, which possess sufficiently characteris­
tic properties to entitle them to rank as elementary tissues:
these are the albugineous fibre of Chaussier, and the epi­
dermoid substance ; and to these we might also add, in or­
der to make the analysis complete, the cartilaginous and
the osseous structures.
(115.) But this analysis of animal textures, has, by some
later anatomists, been carried, in another point of view, still
farther. With relation to the forms assumed by the ele­
mentary tissues, they have been referred to three kinds, the
fibrous, the lamellar^ and the granular9oxglobular. The
two former are exemplified in the structure of the cellular
substance, which composes the greatest portion of the ani­
186 PHYSIOLOGY
mal fabric; the fibrous is characteristic of the muscular and
ligamentous structures ; the fibrous, united with the granu­
lar, is exhibited in the texture of the glands, and in the
medullary substance of the nervous system $and the globu­
lar is most perfectly shown in the composition of the chyle,
the blood, and several of the secretions.
(116.) Anatomists have sought for still more general re­
sults, by means of .microscopical investigations. When
very high magnifying powers are employed, both the mus­
cular fibre, and the nervous or medullary matter, appear to
be resolvable into a mass of globular particles, analogous to
those which compose the opaque portion of the blood.
Meckel has founded upon these observations the following
system: He conceives that every animal structure is ulti­
mately resolvable into two kinds of substance, the one form­
ed into minute, but solid spherular masses, or globules; and
the other, being an homogeneous, but amorphous matter,
either uniting together these globules in the way of a ce­
ment interposed between them, or constituting by itself,
what has been termed the cellular substance, membrane,
andthevarious structures derived from membrane. Dr. Ed­
wards, on the other hand, has carried this notion to the ut­
most possible length; for he represents the cellular and
membranous substances, as being themselves composed of
globules; so that, according to his views, the whole struc­
ture of an animal body will consist of globules.
But the later, and more careful investigations of Dr.
Hodgkin and Mr. Lister,1 appear to have established, that
the globular appearance of the different organized textures,
when viewed with microscopes of high magnifying power,
1 Philosophical M agazine, and Annals o f Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 186;
•and also in the appendix to their translation of Dr. Edwards’ work.
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 187
is altogether an optical deception. A similar conclusion*
indeed* was, many years ago, deduced by Dr. Monro, from
his microscopical researches, detailed in his work on the
Nervous System.
Sect. II.— Combinations o f Textures.
(117.) Such being the results of the general analysis of
animal textures, into a few primary elements, we are next
to consider {he combinations of these textures which are
actually presented to us by nature, in the various organs of
the body; and in order to possess the most comprehensive
views on the subject, it will be proper to study these organs
as forming systems of which the several parts are related to
each other by similarity of composition and of properties.
' The most elaborate arrangement founded on this principle
is that of Bichat, who distinguishes the constituent textures
of the body into twenty-one different kinds. 1 But it may
be objected to his classification, that it is founded on dis­
tinctions of function, as well as on those of structure. We
therefore prefer following on this subject, the arrangement
of Beclard, which proceeds on one uniform principle, name­
ly, that of mechanical conformation. Taking this principle
as our guide, we shall find that the systems of organs may
be easily reduced to eleven different classes 5 namely, J,
the Cellular ; 2 , the Adipous ; 3, the Membranous ; 4, the
D erm oid; 5 , the Ligamentous ; 6 , the Cartilaginous ; 7,
the Osseous ; 8 , the Muscular j 9, the M edullary or N er­
vous ; 1 0 , the Vascular; and, 1 1 , the Glandular systems of
structures. The properties of these several tissues will
come under our review in connexion with the functions to
1 See his Anatmie Gfn&ale-
188 PHYSIOLOGY.
which they are more immediately subservient. The three
first of these, however, claim our immediate attention, as
being the simplest, and most generally diffused over the
body.
1. The Cellular Texture. '
(118.) This is the simplest form in which the animal sub­
stance presents itself to our observation; and it appears to
be not only the real basis of the structure of'all the other
organs, but also the general medium which unites their se­
veral parts together, as well as the bond of connexion be­
tween adjacent organs. It is accordingly, ofall the simpler
textures, that which is the most extensive!/ diffused over the
body; not only pervading the substance of the organs, but
also filling up all the intervening spaces, and preserving
them in their proper relative situations. Haller found it to
consist of an irregular assemblage ofplates and fibres, cross­
ing one another in all manner of directions; so that when
stretched or expanded by the insinuation of any fluid be­
tween the plates, the whole presents a cellular structure.
These cells, which are produced by the separation of the
plates from each other, are of no regular shape, but com­
municate freely with one another throughout the whole ex­
tent of the substance in which they are met with.
(119-) As there is a continuity of the cellular substance
in every part of the body, where it exists in this form, there
must, in like manner, be a continuity in the cavities of these
cells; and the consequence of this structure is, that any
fluid, such as air, or water, which may happen to be intro­
duced into any one part, will readily find its way into ad*
joining parts, and will thus gradually be diffused over the
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 189
whole body. If the fluid be water, as happens in dropsies,
it will, by its gravity, tend to accumulate in the most de­
pending parts of the body, as the ankles, while a person is
standing or sitting; and it will leave these parts, and be
more generally distributed, after he has remained for some
time in a horizontal posture.
The cellular texture may easily be inflated by air; and
this may happen in consequence of injury, even duringlife;
in which case the air gradually insinuates itself into every
part of the frame, puffing up the skin to an extraordinary
degree, so as totally to obliterate the features of the face,
and disfigure the whole body. If measures be not taken to
let the air escape, the patient is at length destroyed by suf­
focation. A remarkable instance of this disease, which is
termed Emphysema, is given by Dr. William Hunter, in an
essay on the properties of cellular texture, contained in the
second volume of the M edical Observations and Inquiries,*
and which also deserves particular notice, as presenting the
best account of this branch of general anatomy.
(120.) The cells, or rather intervals between the plates
and fibres of this substance, contain in the natural and heal­
thy state, a quantity of aqueous fluid, which has been term­
ed the cellular serosity, and which serves the purpose of
lubricating the surfaces of the plates, and thus, by diminish­
ing friction, of facilitating their relative motions on each
other. To this circumstance we may also trace many of
the mechanical properties of the cellular texture $ such as
its perfect flexibility, and its great extensibility in various
directions 5 while it exerts, at the same time, considerable
powers of cohesion. The combination of these two latter
1 Page 26, et seq.
190 PHYSIOLOGY*
properties is the source of another, which it possesses in a
very eminent degree, that ofE lasticity, or the power of re­
covering its original form, when the disturbing force, whe­
ther producing compression or extension, has ceased to act.
It is evident that by possessing all these properties, the cel­
lular texture is eminently qualified to fulfil the important
offices assigned to it, of serving as the elastic scaffolding or
canvass for sustaining all the other parts, and retaining them
in their proper situations ; and whilst it is the universal me­
chanical cement, or medium of connexion between them, it
is at the same time admirably adapted to facilitate their re
lative movements and mutual actions, which are required
for the performance of their respective fv ictions.
(121.) Another property, besides elasticity, has also been
ascribed to the cellular substance and other textures deriv­
ed immediately from it. It consists in a peculiar kind of
contractility, attended by a sudden corregation and curling
up of its substance. As this property has been supposed
to bear some relation to muscular contractility, we shall de­
fer its consideration till we come to treat of that property.
2 . Adipose Texture.
( 1 2 2 .) This texture contains the oily secretion which
is known by the name offa t. The adipose matter, or fat,
is lodged in particular portions of the cellular texture, ap­
propriated to this office. It consists of very minute grains
or globules, distinguishable only by the aid of the micros­
cope. Each of these globules is contained in a separate in­
vestment, or sac, constructed of an exceedingly fine and
delicate membrane, formed out of the constituent plates of
the cellular substance, and having no external opening.
The size of these vesicles is stated to be from the eight-
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 191
hundredth to the six-hundredth partofan inch in diameter.
They are collected together in small rounded masses, unit
ed by vessels, and presenting an appearance under the mi­
croscope, not unlike that of a bunch of grapes. They are
lodged in the cells of the cellular substance in various situ­
ations throughout the body, and contribute to fill up the
hollows which occur in different places between the bones
and muscles, and other organs. They are very abundant
immediately under the skin; and in some parts are evident­
ly interposed as cushions for the protection of organs ex­
posed to injury from pressure or other mechanical violence.
It is evident that the cells in the cellular substance which
are occupied by the fat, are different from those which are
the seat of dropsical accumulations of fluid; and that they
do not, like the latter, communicate with one another; for
it is found that each portion of fat always remains station­
ary in the same cell in which it was originally lodged.
(123.) The fat varies considerably in its consistence in
different parts of the body, according to the purpose it is in­
tended to serve. At the usual temperature of the living
body, however, it is retained very nearly in a state of flu­
idity. The quantity accumulated in the body is very dif­
ferent at different periods of life ; and varies also according
to the state of health, and the peculiar habit and constitu­
tion of the individual. It is whiter in its colour, and more
firm in its consistence, during the earlier periods of life,
and becomes more soft, and acquires a yellow tinge as age
advances.
(124.) The fat of animalshas been resolvedby Chevreul,
who undertook an elaborate analysis of this substance, into
two proximate principles, to which he gives the names of
stearin and elain. The former, derived from the Greek
1 9 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
word <rr*ap, signifying tallow, is of a much more solid con­
sistence than the latter in ordinary temperatures, and does
not melt under a heat of from 1 1 0 ° to 1 2 0 ° of Fahrenheit.
It is obtained from fat by digesting it in alcohol, in the form
of white crystalline needles, which are deposited as the fluid
cools. It is a white brittle substance, void oftaste or odour,
and resembling wax in its appearance. If, after the stearin
has been deposited, heat be applied to the remaining solu­
tion, so as to drive off the alcohol, there remains an oily
matter, which continues fluid at 59° of Fahrenheit, and is
called, by Chevreul, ela'in, from the Greek term for oil,
ikaiov.
The consistence of the fat ofdifferent animals, and in dif­
ferent parts of the same animal, admits of considerable di­
versity, according to the proportions in which these two
ingredients are contained; die abundance of stearin is the
principal cause of the hardness of tallow or suet, whilst an
increased proportion of elain characterises the composidon
of marrow, which is one of the most fluid kinds of fat.
(125.) The marrow which occupies the central cavities
of the cylindrical bones, and which also exists in small
quantities in the canals that pervade the substance of the
denser portions of the bones, is perfectly analogous in its
composition and structure to the fat in other parts of the
body. The oily particles are contained in membranous ve­
sicles, which are themselves connected together, and re­
tained in their places by a fine net-work ofplates and fibres,
corresponding to the general cellular structure of other
parts, but of a peculiarly delicate contexture.
3. Membranous Structures.
(127.) When the texture of cellular substance becomes
consolidated bythe intimate adhesion ofthe plates and fibres
ofwhich it is originally composed, which, of course, pro­
duces the complete obliteration of its cells, it constitutes
the different varieties of membranous structures. These
structures are ofdifferent degrees of thickness, and compose
masses of different degrees of density. When expanded
into a continuous sheet or plate, it forms what is more pro-
perly termed a membrane. These membranes, when suf­
ficiently thin, are semi-transparent, and have a smooth and
uniform surface. Haller found that all membranes are re­
solvable, by long maceration in water, into a flocculent
spongy substance, in which the original cells of the cellular
texture from which they were formed, could be rendered
apparent by inflating them with air.
(128.) Membranes retain almost all the mechanical pro­
perties belonging to the cellular substance from which they
are derived; for they are equally flexible and elastic, al­
though possessing superior strength and firmness. But in
one respect they exhibit a marked difference, while the
simple cellular texture, as we have seen, allows of the ge­
neral communication of fluids introduced into its cells, from
one part to another; membranes are for the most part im­
permeable to fluids, and are in consequence employed with
the express design of preventing their diffusion.
(129*) The property possessed by membranes ofcontract­
ing in their dimensions by the evaporation of the water
they contain, and which is united with the animal material
by a very weak affinity, constitutes what may be termed
the hygrometric property.
All the membranes are capable of being dried by the
continued application of a moderate heat, and may be kept
in this dry state for a great length of time without under­
THE MECHANICAL, FUNCTIONS. 193
194 PHYSIOLOGY.
going any change* But if a dry membrane be immersed
in water, it absorbs a considerable quantity, recovers its
softness and flexibility, and expands in all its dimensions.
These effects are greater when the action ofwarmth is com­
bined with that of moisture. A membrane will absorb mois­
ture even from the atmosphere, and again part with it, ac­
cording to its different states of humidity. Philosophers
have availed themselves of this property in the construction
of an hygrometer, or instrument for indicating these vary­
ing states of the atmosphere with respect to dryness or hu­
midity. Any long slip of dried membrane, suspended in
the air, and stretched by a moderate weight, may be made
to act on a moveable index by any mec* anical contrivance
rendering the variations in its length visible on a large scale,
and will serve the purpose of an hygrometer. The mem­
brane will be found to lengthen by exposure to a humid at­
mosphere, from which it imbibes moisture, and again to
contract by the evaporation of this moisture in a drier air.
A piece of catgut, which is prepared from the membrane
of a sheep, will answer the same purpose. We find, accor­
dingly, that the state of the weather lias a considerable ef­
fect upon the tone of a musical instrument made of catgut.
A violin, or harp, may be in perfect tune in one situation,
and yet become quite out of tune when placed in an atmos­
phere of greater humidity, as in that of a room filled with
company.
The principle of which these facts are illustrations, is to
a certain extent applicable to the animal body. The doc­
trine of the animal fibres being braced or relaxed, which
was formerly a more fashionable language than it is at pre­
sent, may perhaps have been carried too far, but it has cer­
tainly a foundation in truth. Warmth and moisture have
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 19$
a powerful influence on the body, and their effect is partly
mechanical; and this operation, which is primarily exerted
on the skin, renders them efficacious in the relief of inflam­
matory action, by diminishing the tension of the inflamed
parts. This effect is not merely temporary, but may be­
come the permanent habit of the system. Thus, we find
that the inhabitants of elevated countries where the air is
peculiarly dry, are more hardy, and possess more of the
vis tonica in their frames, than those who dwell in a humid
climate, or in low and swampy plains. The Swiss and other
inhabitants of mountainous tracts, may in this respect be
contrasted with the Dutch and Flemish, who have in gene­
ral a constitutional laxity of fibre; and similar differences
have been observed in the lower animals among varieties
of the same race.
(130.) All these properties of membrane, taken together,
adapt them for being employed in various useful ways in
the animal economy. Membranes in general are employed
to establish relations not only between adjacent, but also
between distant parts ; they strengthen their connexions,
and, whilst in some they allow of relative motions in certain
directions, and to a certain extent, in others they restrain
them and limit their degrees. Almost every organ is fur­
nished with a firm covering of membrane, which gives it
protection and support. For all these purposes, a looserand
more yielding cellular tissue would not have possessed ade­
quate strength.
(131.) As the cellular substance is the basis of mem­
brane, so membrane, in different modifications, constitutes
the essential portion of many other parts of the body $such
as all those recipient organs, having the form of sacs or
pouches, like the stomach, and especially those which are
196 PHYSIOLOGY.
provided for the retention of fluids, as the gall-bladder, and
urinary bladder. Membranes are also formed into tubes of
various kinds, destined to transmit their fluid contents to
various parts. These tubes, known under the name of
vessels, canals, or ducts, are also frequently furnished with
a valvular apparatus, likewise composed of membrane, al­
lowing of the passage of the fluid only in one direction.
(132.) The structure and properties of every description
of membranes have been minutely investigated by Bichat,
who, in his Anatomie Gendrale, has given us an elaborate
classification of the animal textures. He establishes two
general divisions of membranes, namely, the simple and the
compound. Of the former he makes thrt jclasses; first, the
mucous membranes, the surface of which is defended by a
mucous secretion; secondly, the serous membranes, char­
acterised by the serous nature of the fluid with which their
surface is constantly moistened; and, thirdly, the fibrous
membranes, which are distinguished by their peculiar struc­
ture, as being composed of dense and inelastic fibres. The
compound membranes are formed by the intermixture of
two or more of the simpler membranes, and exhibit a com­
bination of the characters of each.
(133.) Serous membranes are universally met with where-
ever there are internal cavities in the body, which are closed
on every side, that is, have no communication, by any chan­
nel, with the external air; such cavities being always lin­
ed by serous membranes. This is exemplified in the cavi­
ties of the chest, which are three in number; namely, one
on each side, containing the right and left lung, and the in­
termediate cavity, occupied by the heart The membranes
lining the former are called the pleurce / and the membrane
lining the latter, thepericardium . The great cavity of the
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 197
abdomen, in which are situated the organs of digestion and
chylification, is lined by the jperitoneum, which Is also a
serous membrane. The same, also, applies to the cavities
in the interior of the brain, which are called ventricles, and
also the external surface of the organ, which are lined by
the dura mater, the arachnoid coat, and pia mater. The
serous membranes, after lining their respective cavities, are
extended still farther, by being reflected back upon the or­
gans inclosed in their cavities, so as to furnish them with
an external covering. If it were possible, therefore, to dis­
sect these membranes from off the parts which they invest,
they would have the form of a sac without an opening, the
organ invested by one of their folds, being altogether ex­
ternal to the cavity of that sac; just as happens when a
double night-cap is worn, of which the part immediately
covering the head is analogous to that portion of the serous
membrane which adheres to, and invests the organ; whilst
the external portion of the cap represents the lining of the
cavity in which that organ is said to be contained.
(134.) Hence it will readily be understood, that the se­
rous membranes never open, or allow of any perforation, for
the passage of blood-vessels, nerves, or ducts, to or from the
enclosed organs; but that they are always reflected over
those parts, forming a sheath round them, and accompany­
ing them in their course. It also follows, as a necessary
consequence, that their free surfaces completely isolate the
parts between which they intervene. The great viscera, .
suspended in the bags formed by their serous coverings, can
have no communication with the adjacent parts, except at
the points where their vessels enter; in all other situations
there is no continuity of parts, although there may be con­
tiguity,
x
198 PHYSIOLOGY*
(135.) In every serous membrane we may distinguish two
surfaces having very different characters: the external sur­
face, or that by which they adhere to the surrounding or­
gans, and the internal surface, which is in immediate con­
tact with another portion of the same membrane, but with­
out adhering to it. This interior surface is remarkable for
its perfect smoothness and polish; and it is continually pre­
served in a state of moisture by a serous fluid, which ex­
udes from it. This fluid has been termed the liquid o f
surfaces, and consists almost entirely of water, with a very
minute proportion of albuminous matter. Its presence is
evidently of the greatest use in facilitating the motions of
the parts contained within the cavities, wi'h relation to their
sides, by diminishing friction, preserving the smoothness
of the surfaces applied to each other, and preventing their
mutual adhesion. When the internal surface of these mem­
branes is exposed to the air in living animals, or imme­
diately after death, this fluid exhales in the form of vapour,
to which formerly great attention was paid, and which was
dignified with the name of halitus. In consequence of dis­
ease, this fluid of surfaces sometimes accumulates in one of
these cavities, and thereby produces a dropsy of that respec­
tive cavity: a fact which proves the power of serous mem­
branes to retain these fluids, and not, as in the case of the
cellular substance, to allow of their diffusion into the adjoin­
ing organs.
(1 3 6 .) The serous membranes constitute the simplest
form of condensed cellular substance; they are not divisible
into any regular layers; although cellular portions may be
removed from the outer surface by which they are attached
to the surrounding parts. In the natural state they are ex­
ceedingly thin and transparent; but become thicker and
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 199
opaque by disease. Although perfectly flexible, they pos­
sess considerable strength; theyare exceedingly extensible;
but they are not in the same proportion elastic: for after
they have been stretched, they give but feeble indications
of a power of retraction.
4. The Osseous Fabric.
(137.) For the purpose of thoroughly understanding the
whole mechanism and operations ofany complicated engine,
or system ofmachinery, the best and most natural course is
to commence with the study of the solid framework, which
gives stability to the whole fabric, and affords fixed bearings
from which the powers, regulating the movements of its
different parts, exert their respective powers. This purpose
of procuring mechanical rigidity and support, is the appro­
priate function of the osseous system, or skeleton ; which is
composed of a connected series of solid structures, called
bones, deriving their mechanical properties from their pecu­
liar chemical composition, and almost crystalline hardness,
and which constitute one of the most important of the con­
stituent textures of the body. Our first object of attention,
therefore, in considering the mechanical functions, is the
study of this system of structures.
(138.) The bones, then, are to be viewed as the densest
and most solid parts of the animal frame; constituting the
basis of support to the softer textures, affording protection
to all the vital organs, and furnishing those powerful levers
which are essential to the advantageous action of the mus­
cles concerned in locomotion, and in the various movements
of the limbs. With reference to their form, they have
usually been divided into three classes: the long cylin~
drical bones; the broad and J lat bones; and the short or
2 0 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
square bones, which include those of a more irregular form,
and not referable to either of the other two heads. To the
first class belong the principal bones of the upper and lower
limbs, which are adapted more especially to the purposes of
motion. Under the second may be ranked the bones of the
skull, which serve for the protection of the brain; and the
third include the vertebrae, the bones of the face, and the
wsmall bones which concur in the formation of the wrist and
the ankle. There are, besides, other bones, such as the ribs
and the bones of the pelvis, of a more anomalous descrip­
tion, which are rather distinguished by their irregularity
than by any definite character.
(139*) On examining the mechanical *tructure of bones,
we find that their external surface is generally their hardest
part, and that it consists of a solid plate, or layer of bony
matter, of different thickness in different bones, and in dif­
ferent parts of the same bone. In the cylindrical bones this
firm and compact substance extends only to a certain depth,
and within this the structure is spongy and cellular. To
the latter part the name of cancelli has been given. In the
middle of the long bones the central parts are occupied by
the marrow ; but as we continue our examination, by taking
different sections across the bone, in proportion as we ap­
proach the extremities, we find the dense external substance
diminishing m thickness, while tfee proportion of the spongy
part increases, and encroaches upon the space in the centre
occupied by the marrow, which at length disappears, so that
at the very extremity of the bone, nearly the whole area of
the section is filled by the cancelli, while the outer cover­
ing of solid bone is merely a thin superficial plate. In the
fiat bones, having, of course, an upper and under surface,
the plates ofbone forming each ofthese surfaces, are termed
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 201
the two tables, and the cellular portion which is found be­
tween them is called the dipWe. In many of the more irre­
gularly shaped bones, neither cancelli nor diploe are found,
the whole substance being compact. Dr. Bostock observes,
that the transition from the compact to the spongy port of
a bone is not marked by any decided lim it; but they pass
into each other by insensible degrees, so as to shew that
there is no essential difference between them.1
(140.) Bones present the appearance of fibres on their
surface. This is seen particularly in all bones that have
been long exposed to the weather, or that have been long
boiled. In the cylindrical bones most of these fibres are
longitudinal; but in the flat bones they generally run in a
radiated direction. In the short bones their course is much
more irregular and difficult to trace. In the compact part
of the section of a bone, the appearance of plates is not very
distinguishable; but certain cavities are discovered which,
for the most part, run in a longitudinal direction, and nearly
parallel to one another. They are of various lengths; and
their diameters are exceedingly small. They have trans­
verse or oblique canals, which establish communications
between them; and some of which also open into the larger
cancelli in the middle of the bone. These cavities have
been called the canals ofHavers, 9 who first discovered them.
4
*
* ** '
Their existence, however, was for a long time considered
as dubious; but it has been lately verified by Mr. Howship, 3
who, with the help of the solar microscope, obtained dis­
tinct views of them, and was enabled to trace their course.
He ascertained the diameter of these canals to be about the
1 Elementary Systeto p f Physiology, third edition, p. 61.
* Osteologia nova, $ 35,37.
9Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vii. 393.
2 0 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
400th of an inch; and farther discovered that they are lined
with an extremely fine vascular membrane, and that they
are filled with marrow.
(141.) The intimate structure of bone was first minutely
investigated by Malpighi, who discovered that its basis con*
sists of an animal membrane having an areolated, or cellular
form. Duhamel1 next ascertained that this membranous
matter was frequently disposed in plates or laminae $and he
described these plates as forming concentric rings, analo­
gous to those which compose the trunk of a tree; but there
is no other foundation than mere fancy for this analogy.
We owe to Herissant# the important fact, that the chief
properties of bone are derived from the presence of an ear­
thy ingredient, which is deposited in the animal basis, or
parenchyma of the bone.
(142.) The analysis ofabone into its two constituent parts
is easily effected by the agency either of acids or of heat.
By macerating a full-grown bone for a sufficient time in
diluted muriatic acid, the earthyportion ofthe bone,amount­
ing to nearly one-third of its weight, is dissolved by the
acid; the animal portion only remaining. This animal basis
retains the bulk and shape of the original bone, but is soft,
flexible, and elastic; possessing, in a word, all the proper­
ties of membranous parts, and corresponding in its chemi­
cal character to condensed albumen.3 A portion ofthis solid
animal substance affords gelatine by long boiling in water,
especially under the pressure, admitting of a high tempera­
ture, to which it may be subjected in Papin’s digester. On
1M&noires de TAcadfam des Sciences, pour 1789, 1741, 1742,
and 1743. 8 Ibid. 1758.
* This was first satisfactory Bhewn by Mr. Hatcbett. P hil,
TYans* for 1800.
the other hand, by subjecting a bone to the action of fire,
the animal part alone will be consumed, and the earth left
untouched, preserving, as before, the form of the bone, but
having lost the material which united the particles, present­
ing a fragile mass which easily crumbles into powder. This
earthy basis, when chemically examined, is found to con­
sist principally of phosphate of lime, which composes eighty-
two hundredths of its weight; and to contain also, accord­
ing to Berzelius, minute portions of fluate and carbonate of
lime, together with the phosphates of magnesia and of soda.
Dr. G. O. Rees, who has lately made exact analysis of
different bones taken from the same individual, in a state of
perfect dryness, and quite free from fat, periosteum, or car­
tilage,deducesfromhisresearchesthefollowingconclusions: 1
1. The long bones of the extremities contain more ear­
thy matter than those of the trunk.
2 . The bones of the upper extremity contain somewhat
more earthy matter than the corresponding bones of the
lower extremity; thus the humerus more than the femur,
and the radius and ulna more than the tibia and fibula;
this difference is, however, small, being about one half per
cent.
3. The humerus contains more earthy matter than the
radiusand ulna, and the femur more than the tibia and fibula.
4. The tibia and fibula contain, as nearly as possible, the
same proportions of animal and earthy matter, and the ra­
dius and ulna may also be considered alike in constitution.
5* The vertebrae, ribs, and clavicle, are nearly identical
as regards the proportion of earthy matter; the ileum con­
tains somewhat more of the earth, the scapula and sternum
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS, [ 203
Medico-Chintrgical Transactions, xxi. 409.
204 PHYSIOLOGY.
somewhat less; the sternum contains more earthy matter
than the scapula.
6 . The bones of the head contain considerably more ear­
thy matter than the bones of the trunk, as observed by Dr.
J. Davy; but the humerus and other long bones are very
nearly as rich in earths.
7. The metatarsal bones may probably be ranked with
those of the trunk in proportional constitution.
8 . The cancellated structure (at least in the rib) contains
less earthy matter than the more solid parts of the bone;
this difference, however, is not considerable.
9. The bones of the trunk of the foetal skeleton are as
rich in the proportion ofearthy matter as Liose of the adult;
at least the difference is too small to be material.
10. The bones ofthe foetal extremities, on the otherhand,
are deficient in earthy matter,which is a fact simply explica­
ble from the circumstance that such an excess of earths as
appears necessary to very great strength of bone is not
needed at birth, and therefore only appears in after life.
The existence of a general law, regulating the proportion
of earthy deposit in the different bones, (which is shown by
the curious agreement of relative proportions observed be­
tween the foetal and adult skeletons,) adds one more to the
manyproofs ofthe regularity and perfection of design which
nature evinces in her operations.
(143.) It appears evident, then, from these and other
facts, that the basis of the osseous structure is essentially
the same as that of membranous parts, being composed of
fibrous laminae or plates, which are connected together so as
to form, by their intersection, a Beries of cells analogous to
those of the cellular texture. In the interstices of these
plates, or in the cells themselves, the particles of phosphate
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 205
of lime are deposited; the particles being held in union by
the interposed membrane, which performs the office of a
cement. Hence there is no necessity for admitting the
hypothetical explanation of Gagliardi, 1 who maintained that
the bony plates are held together by small processes, like
nails, which, rising from the inner plates, pierce through
the adjoining ones, and are fixed into the more external
plates. Of these processes, or claviculi, as he called them,
he described four different kinds, the perpendicular, the
oblique, the headed, and the crooked. But no subsequent
anatomist has been able to verify these observations; and
the account given by Gagliardi remains on record as a
curious instance of the extent to which an observer of mere
appearances is liable to deceive himself by the influence of
too vivid an imagination. Monro states, that in bones fitly
prepared, he could only see numerous irregular processes
rising out from the plates. Duhamel, trusting to a fancied
analogy between the process of ossification, and the growth
of trees, imagined that a bone is composed of a series ofre­
gular concentric laminae. But this hypothesis has been re­
futed by Scarpa, 2 who investigated, with great care, both
the mechanical structure of bone and the mode of its for­
mation ; and concludes that the ultimate texture of bone is
not lamellated but reticular. Raspail has indulged in spe­
culations of a still more questionable nature respecting the
ultimate osseous texture, which he endeavours to assimilate
with that vesicular form, which he views as the essential cha­
racter both of animal and of vegetable organization. Dr.
Benson observes3 that all writers, before the time of Scar­
pa, considered the structure of bone as laminated, or fibrous
1Anatomia Ossiunu *De Perit, Structura Ossium*
* Cyclopedia ofAnatomy and Physiology, vol. i. p. 433.
2 0 6 PHYSIOLOGY.
and laminated; whilst, according to all later authorities, it
should be regarded as cellular. In the works of the for­
mer, however, we may notice intimations of a reticular tex­
ture ; and in those of the latter, on the other hand, we meet
with the expressions of a tendency or disposition to a lam­
inated arrangement. “ If, with these opinions before us,,>
he continues, “ we come to examine for ourselves, we shal 1
have no hesitation in agreeing with Scarpa that it is really
cellular. At the same time, it must be confessed, that the
sides of the cells are, in the compact tissue, so pressed to­
gether, that the appearance of laminae is often very strik­
ing ; and, again, that the sides of the cells have, in most
places, the appearance of fibres; when the earthy portion
is removed by an acid, we can tear out with a pin the mem­
branous fibres, and almost demonstrate the fibres. But a
closer examination will shew that we have torn the cells,
and destroyed the true texture. The laminated disposition
supposed to be shewn by exfoliation, the weather, burning,
&c., may all be proved to be deception ; and there can sel­
dom, indeed, be exhibited a plate, however small, of equal
thickness throughout, which has been removed by any of
these agents. There is, however, an approach to the lam­
inated arrangement, and every cell is formed of particles
which approach to the form of fibres. The longitudinal
canals of Havers, Leuwenhoeck, and Howship, probably
result from the flattened cells, and may be deceptive appear­
ances in the old bone, or the channels for blood-vessels,&c
(144.) Bones are invested on every part of their surface,
excepting in those parts where they are plated with carti­
lage, with a firm plate of membrane, termed ^ periosteu m ,
which conveys blood-vessels to the bone, and establishes
mechanical connexions between it and surrounding parts.
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 207
This membrane belongs to the class of fibrous textures,
being composed of numerous inelastic fibres of great densi­
ty and strength, passing in various directions, and compos­
ing a kind of ligamentous tissue, interlacing with the fibres
of the ligaments which encircle the joints.
The inner surface of the periosteum is connected with
the bone by the vessels passing from the one to the other,
and also by numerous prolongations which dip down into
the osseous substance. The blood-vessels of this membrane
are numerous, and easily rendered apparent by means ofin­
jections, especially in young subjects. Besides the more
obvious uses of the periosteum, in affording protection to
the surface of bones from injurious impressions they might
receive from the action of surrounding parts, and interpos­
ing a membranous layer for the defence of the latter, Bichat
ascribes to it the more important office of affording fixed
centres of support to the general system of fibres, in its
mechanical relations to the rest of the frame. The perios­
teum which covers the bones of the skull has received the
name of the pericranium.
(145.) The internal cavities of the bones are, as is well
known, occupied by an oily secretion, termed the marrow,
contained in a delicate structure, composed of minute vesi­
cleswhich are filled with the fluid oil, andwhich are connect­
ed by fine threads and plates offine cellular tissue. Monro
describes the vesicles as perfectly distinct, having no com­
munication with one another, and as presenting, under the
microscope, the appearance of a cluster of pearls.
Many have been the conjectural uses assigned to the mar­
row by the older physiologists; it was at one time very ge­
nerally imagined that it served, by its mechanical properties,
to temper the brittle quality of the earthy materials
206 PHYSIOLOGY.
form the chief constituent portion of the bone; a purpose,
however, which it is impossible it could fulfil, as, instead of
being mixed up and blended with the phosphate of lime, or
diffused generally through the substratum of the bone, it is
lodged in separate cavities, and thereby prevented from any
union with bony matter, or intermixture with its substance*
The marrow is, in general, possessed of little sensibility, ex­
cept in a few points, where it is traversed by the nervous
filaments supplying the bone itself* It is regarded by phy­
siologists of the present day rather as constituting a part of
the general store of nutritious matter, which is kept in re­
serve for particular occasions of exigency, than as having
any mechanical relation with the dense texture within which
it is lodged. The circumstance of its bung wholly absent
in the bones of birds is a clear proof that there is no mutual
dependence between the functions of the latter and the pre­
sence of the marrow.
(146.) All the internal cavities of bones occupied by the
marrow are lined with a vascular membrane, which follows
all the windings of the canals and of the canceUi, and has
been called the internal periosteum. It may easily be ren­
dered visible by sawing a long bone longitudinally, and
plunging it in boiling water, by which treatment the mem­
brane is made to detach itself from the bone, and contract
upon the marrow which is within it, and to which it is closely
attached. It has then the appearance of a fine cobweb.
5. Cartilage.
(147*) The structure which ranks next to bone in respect
to its density is cartilage, a term which expresses a firm and
dense substance, apparently homogeneous in its texture,
semipellucid, and o f a milk-white or pearly colour. Sub­
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 209
stances of this description are found to enter into the com­
position of several parts of the body. The surface of a car­
tilage is perfectly uniform, and presents no visible eminences
or pores; nor can any cavities or inequalities of any kind be
perceived in its internal texture. When it is cut into with
a sharp knife, the section exhibits an uniform appearance,
like that of a piece of glue. Yet, after exposure for a cer­
tain time, the surface thus cut begins to contract, and a se­
rous fluid is perceived slowly to exude from it, proceeding
from certain invisible pores, which are in all probability mi­
nute capillary vessels, of which the diameters are too small
to admit the coloured globules of the blood. That a deli­
cate system of circulating passages exist in cartilages, is
shewn by various diseased conditions, in which sometimes
granulations have been seen to arise from their surfaces, and
at other times extensive absorption of their substance has
taken place; and although insensible, on ordinary occasions,
tp wounds inflicted by cutting instruments, yet in others,
when sudden pressure is made on them under peculiar cir­
cumstances, extreme pain arises, giving warning of serious
injury impending.
Cartilaginous structures appear to be composed of albu­
men alone, with scarcely any intermixture of gelatin. Dr.
John Davy found that they contain a small proportion of
phosphate of lime, amounting to about the two hundredth
part of their weight. Mr. Hatchett, however, does not re­
gard this substance as an essential ingredient in their com­
position.
The mechanical property which particularly distinguishes
cartilage is elasticity, a quality which it possesses in a greater
degree than any other animal structure, and which adapts it
to many useful purposes in the economy. Hence it forms
2 1 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
the basis of many parts where, contrary to the purposes an­
swered by the bones, pliancy and resilience as well as firm­
ness are required; and hence cartilage is employed when
a certain shape is to be preserved, together with a capabi­
lity of yielding to an external force. The flexibility of car­
tilage, however, does not extend beyond certain limits ; if
these be exceeded, fracture takes place. Great density be­
stowed upon an animal structure, indeed, appears to be in all
cases attended with a proportionate degree of brittleness.
These mechanical properties of cartilages, as well as their
intimate structure, although nearly homogeneous in all, are
subject to modification in different kinds of cartilage. Carti­
lages are covered with a fine membrane termed the peri•
chondrium, analogous in its structure and office to the pe­
riosteum, which we have already had occasion to point out
among the fibrous membranes, as investing the bones.
(148.) Cartilages are distinguished into those which are
temporary and those which are permanent structures. The
former are only met with in the earlier periods of life, dur­
ing the growth of the body, and are gradually removed to
make way for the deposition of bone. When about to un­
dergo this change, small canals have been detected in the
substance of these temporary cartilages. The permanent
cartilages are those which retain the cartilaginous structure
throughout every period of life. They have been distin­
guished into three or four different kinds, such as the mem-
braniform, the interosseal, the articular, and the interar-
ticular cartilages.
(149.) The meinbraniform cartilages are included by Bi­
chat in the class of fibro-cartilaginous structures hereafter
to be described. They furnish a basis ofsupport to the softer
parts, and in some measure supply the place of bone, giving
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 211
a determinate shape and firmness to partswhere bone would
have been inconvenient They possess greater tenacity and
less brittleness than the other kinds of cartilage. By their
elasticity they admit of considerable variation of figure,
yielding to external pressure, and recovering their proper
shape as soon as the pressure is removed. Of this kind are
the cartilages ofthe nose and ear, and also those ofthe larynx
and trachea. These cartilages are extremely thin, and are
invested with a very thick and firm perichondrium, to which
they are connected by means of a number of fibres travers­
ing their substance, and rendering their surfaces rough and
porous. Long maceration enables us to detect these fibres,
and to resolve the whole into a cellular and albuminous sub­
stance.
(150.) The interosseal cartilages pass from one bone to
another, adhering firmly by their extremities to each. They
answer the same purpose as would be attained by an in­
crease of extent in one or both of the bones, with the fur­
ther advantage of allowing of obscure degrees of motion,
and deadening the effects ofjars incident to percussion. The
cartilages of the ribs are of this class. They are covered
with perichondrium. When they have been steeped in wa­
ter for a great many months, they are divisible into laminae,
of an oval shape, which are united by fibres passing oblique­
ly between them.
(151.) The articular, or diarthrodiaicartilages, are those
plates of cartilaginous substance which adhere firmly, and
almost inseparably, to the surfaces of those bones which are
opposed to each other in the joints, or over which tendons
and ligaments slide. In some joints the whole of the sur­
face of the bone within the capsular ligament is covered with
cartilage; in others, only the parts of bones which move
2 1 2 PHYSIOLOGY•
upon each other; the remaining part being covered with
ligament. This latter disposition is met with in the joint of
the hip. This kind of cartilage, like the others, appears per­
fectly smooth on its surface, and also when a section is made
through its substance; but by a sufficiently long macera­
tion, to allow of a commencement of putrefaction, its fibrous
structure may be detected. The elastic resilience of these
cartilages has a powerful tendency to lessen the shocks in­
cident to sudden and violent actions.
(152.) Cartilages of a similar kind are found in the cavi­
ties of certain joints, and have hence been called interarti-
cular cartilages. They have no immediate connexion with
the bones forming the joint, but are attached only to the in­
side of the capsular ligament. They are thus rendered
somewhat moveable, and being interposed between the
bones, allow them a greater latitude of motion, while they
at the same time contribute to adapt their surfaces more
perfectly to each other. By long maceration in water, a
laminated structure is more distinctly perceived in this kind
of cartilage than in any of the others.
6 . Fibro-Cartilaginous Structures.
(153.) Many structures exist in the human body which
appear to be of an intermediate nature between ligament
and cartilage, in which a fibrous texture is united to a car­
tilaginous basis, and which combines the characteristic pro­
perties of both these textures. They are distinguished
from the purely ligamentous parts by their high degree of
elasticity, and from cartilage by their fibrous texture. Ac­
cordingly we find them employed when this combination of
properties is requisite for the functions of the parts. They
form additions to interarticular ligaments, and^eke out die
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 2 1 3
borders of cavities adapted to the reception of the rounded
heads of bones.
(154.) The principal instances of large masses of fibro­
cartilaginous structures occur in those which unite the bo­
dies of the vertebrae and of the bones of the pelvis. These
intervertebral substances, as they are termed, impart great
elasticity to the spine ; and diminish the effects of concus­
sion. When the body has been long in the erect position,
the weight of the head and upper parts of the trunk occa­
sions the compression of these intervertebral substances,
and the height of the person is diminished. By continu­
ance for an equal time in a horizontal posture, this super­
incumbent pressure being removed, they recover their ori­
ginal dimensions. Hence a person is taller when he rises
in a morning than after sustaining the fatigues of the day;
and the difference of stature often amounts to a whole inch.
(155.) Structures possessing inferior degrees of solidity,
but still exhibiting structures of considerable density, are
met with in the interior of the body, and serve various me­
chanical purposes of cohesion and support. Many of these
may be regarded as mere modifications of membrane; but
yet the peculiarities of structure and of properties exhibited
by ligamentous textures point them out as requiring to be
classed separately. Bichat, who has viewed them as com­
posing a system of structures, has given to it the title of
thefibrous system ; a name which is liable to the objection
of not being sufficiently distinctive; since, as we shall af­
terwards find, many other parts, and especially the muscles,
are no less fibrous than the tendons and the ligaments.
As a general designation of this class of fibres, we have
2 1 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
therefore preferred the term of ligamentous system, which
sufficiently expresses the general mechanical purpose which
they are designed to serve in the animal economy.
(156.) This system includes a great number of struc-
tures, which, although very similar in their nature and of­
fice, have received different names, such as ligaments,
tendons, fascia, aponeuroses, capsules, &c. Fibres of a
similar kind to those which constitute these parts, also en­
ter into the composition of other organs, imparting to them
different degrees of mechanical strength.
(157.) Various as are the forms and dispositions assumed
by ligamentous,fibres, they present us with two principal
varieties, according as they are expanded into thin and
broad plates, or ligamentous membranes, or collected into
thick and elongated cords. The first division includes
fibrous membranes, fibrous capsules, tendinous sheaths, and
aponeuroses.
(158). Thefibrous membranes resemble ordinary mem­
branes, but have, superadded to the structure of the latter,
numerous denser fibres, which give them greater strength,
and fit them for affording mechanical support to various
organs. Thus the periosteum of the bones is a membrane
of this description. The internal periosteum of the skull
or dura mater has a similar structure. The external coat
of the globe of the eye, or sclerotica} the investing mem­
branes of many of the glands, as the kidneys, belong to the
class of fibrous membranes; to which also we may perhaps
refer some of the coats of the larger blood-vessels, and of
the excretory ducts of glands. Besides enveloping organs,
these fibrous membranes often extend into their interior,
forming partitions, or even cells, which contribute to their
firmness and support.
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 2 15
(159.) The fibrous capsules present the form of sacs,
which surround certain joints, especially those of the shoul­
der and hip, and preserve the connexion between the bones
which form these joints. These capsules, again, are lined
internally by serous or synovial membranes, supplying the
fluid which lubricates the surfaces of the parts playing upon
each other.
(160.) The tendinous sheaths axe formedby fibrous mem­
branes of a cylindrical shape, which surround the tendons
in those parts where they pass over bones, and are par­
ticularly subjected to friction, or liable to occasional dis­
placement during the action of the muscles which move
the joint. Some of these include only one tendon in their
respective cavities, as those of the fingers and toes: others
receive several tendons, as those belonging to the muscles
of the wrist and ankle joints.
( 1 6 1 .) Aponeuroses consist of extended sheets of fibrous
texture, principally belonging to the organs of locomotion;
and disposed in some instances so as to form coverings of
parts ; while in others they constitute points of attachment
to muscles. Thus they may be distinguished into aponeu­
roses for enveloping, and aponeuroses for insertion. The
former, which are generally termed fasciae, either surround
the muscles of the limb, forming a general sheath for it, as
in the fore-arm and thigh; or else they invest and confine
some particular muscles. The aponeuroses for insertion
either form broad or narrow surfaces, or consist of separate
fibres, giving attachment to particular portions of muscles,
or form arches, which both admit of their connexion with
muscular fibres, and at the same time allow of the passage
of vessels.
(162.) The second division composes the proper liga-
2 1 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
therefore preferred the term of ligamentous system, which
sufficiently expresses the general mechanical purpose which
they are designed to serve in the animal economy.
(156.) This system includes a great number of struc­
tures, which, although very similar in their nature and of­
fice, have received different names, such as ligaments,
tendons, fascia, aponeuroses, capsules, &c. Fibres of a
similar kind to those which constitute these parts, also en­
ter into the composition of other organs, imparting to them
different degrees of mechanical strength.
(157.) Various as are the forms and dispositions assumed
by ligamentous .fibres, they present us with two principal
varieties, according as they are expanded into thin and
broad plates, or ligamentous membranes, or collected into
thick and elongated cords. The first division includes
fibrous membranes, fibrous capsules, tendinous sheaths, and
aponeuroses.
(158). Thefibrous membranes resemble ordinary mem­
branes, but have, superadded to the structure of the latter,
numerous denser fibres, which give them greater strength,
and fit them for affording mechanical support to various
organs. Thus the periosteum of the bones is a membrane
of this description. The internal periosteum of the skull
or dura mater has a similar structure. The external coat
of the globe of the eye, or sclerotica; the investing mem­
branes of many of the glands, as the kidneys, belong to the
class of fibrous membranes; to which also we may perhaps
refer some of the coats of the larger blood-vessels, and of
the excretory ducts of glands. Besides enveloping organs,
these fibrous membranes often extend into their interior,
forming partitions, or even cells, which contribute to their
firmness and support.
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 2 1 5
(159-) The fibrous capsules present the form of sacs,
which surround certain joints, especially those of the shoul­
der and hip, and preserve the connexion between the bones
which form these joints. These capsules, again, are lined
internally by serous or synovial membranes, supplying the
fluid which lubricates the surfaces of the parts playing upon
each other.
( 1 6 0 .) The tendinous sheaths are formed by fibrous mem­
branes of a cylindrical shape, which surround the tendons
in those parts where they pass over bones, and are par­
ticularly subjected to friction, or liable to occasional dis­
placement during the action of the muscles which move
the joint. Some of these include only one tendon in their
respective cavities, as those of the fingers and toes: others
receive several tendons, as those belonging to the muscles
of the wrist and ankle joints.
(161.) Aponeuroses consist of extended sheets of fibrous
texture, principally belonging to the organs of locomotion;
and disposed in some instances so as to form coverings of
parts; while in others they constitute points of attachment
to muscles. Thus they may be distinguished into aponeu­
roses for enveloping, and aponeuroses for insertion. The
former, which are generally termed fasciae, either surround
the muscles of the limb, forming a general sheath for it, as
in the fore-arm and thigh; or else they invest and confine
some particular muscles. The aponeuroses for insertion
either form broad or narrow surfaces, or consist of separate
fibres, giving attachment to particular portions of muscles,
or form arches, which both admit of their connexion with
muscular fibres, and at the same time allow of the passage
of vessels.
(1 6 2 .) The second division composes the proper liga­
2 1 6 PHYSIOLOGY*
ments and tendons, all of which have more or less the
form of cords.
The ligaments connect together the articular surfaces of
bones, and oppose a very considerable resistance to any
force tending to their displacement. The fibres which
enter into their composition, generally preserve a direction
nearly parallel; but frequently they are extended in va­
rious ways, forming an intertexture calculated to resist ex­
tension in different directions; and from their mere flat­
tened form, bringing these ligaments nearer to the descrip­
tion of fibrous membranes.
(163.) The tendons are generally more simple in their
structure, consisting of elongated cords; but in some in­
stances they are more complicated, being divided into se­
veral smaller cords.
(164.) Bichat1 has exhibited, in the following table, a ge­
neral view of the preceding classification of what he calls
thefibrous system. •
I
f g
S'8
J |
A
{
Fibrous membranes.
Fibrous capsules.
Fibrous sheaths, .
Aponeuroses.
Ligaments.
Tendons.
Partial.
General.
For envelop* ( Partial,
ment. ( General.
% | In abroad surface.
Fdr insertion < In an arch.
( In separate fibres.
With regular fasciculi.
With irregular fasciculi.
Simple.
Complicated.
(165.) The structure of all these parts, as their name
imports, is essentially fibnpu; the individual fibre* which
1 Seehis Antrim** Qtntni*, tom. iii. p. 142.
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 217
compose them being exceedingly slender filaments of a
very dense, firm, and inelastic substance; sometimes pa*
rallel to each other, as in the tendons and ligaments, and
sometimes variously interwoven, as in the fibrous mem­
branes. In some portions of the denser structures here­
after to be noticed, the fibres are so closely united as to
present an almost homogeneous appearance; but in all the
parts hitherto considered, the bundles of fibres admitof be­
ing separated by maceration; and are resolvable into length­
ened filaments of extreme tenuity. It has not been per­
fectly ascertained what is the diameter of the fibres when
this subdivision has been carried to its utmost lim it; but
they appear in this ultimate state of division to be as fine
as the filaments spun by the silk-worm. These ultimate
fibres are distinguished by their flexibility, their extreme
tenacity, and their brilliant whiteness. They are probably
in no case tubular, but solid throughout, although Mas­
cagni, extending to them his general system of organic tex­
tures, regards them as formed of lymphatic vessels. Chaus-
sier, 1 with great appearance of truth, considers them as a
peculiar and primary organic tissue, to which he has given
the name of the albugineous fibre, in order to distinguish
it from the mere simple cellular or membranous fibre, which
constitutes the basis of ttae general substance jof the body.
( 1 6 6 .) The fibres which enter intty the coxlposition of
these ligamentous textures, are united by a cellular tissue
of extreme fineness and tenuity, which is rendered evident
after macerationwhen the ligamentousfibres aredrawn asun­
der. Their arrangement at the surface ofthese structures
is such as to produce that glistening and satin-like lustre
1Dktknmaire de» Science*M&ticeke* Organization. }
218 PHYSIOLOGY.
which results from a surface of high polish and density; an
appearance which is very characteristic ofthe fibrous struc­
tures. This smoothness and resplendentwhite colour is pos­
sessed in the greatest degree by tendons, which have in ge­
neral a greater extent of motion than the ligaments, and
therefore require a higher degree of polish.
Sect. III.—Mechanical Connexions*
1. Articulation.
(167.) Having noticed the properties of those elementary
textures that furnish those cohesive rnd resisting forces
which are necessary for the mechanical purposes of the ani­
mal fabric, we have next to review those combinations of
structure which have been adopted for establishing the con­
nexions between the various parts of the frame, and which
adapt them to those objects. These modes of connexion
admit of great variety, according to the different mechanical
relations which must take place between them; and more
particularly with reference to the degrees ofmobility which
are to result from their union. In many cases the parts
placed in juxtaposition require to be fixed in their places
by the firmest bonds which can secure their relative immo­
bility : in others, the freest motion must be allowed; while
in various other instances, we find almost every intermedi­
ate degree of flexion allowed, and every kind of connecting
mechanism employed. But from the deep implanting of
the teeth in the jaws, like nails firmly fixed in wood, and the
mutual locking in of the bones of the skull by indented su­
tures,like the dove-tailedjunctions ofcarpentry, to the free­
ly rotating joints of the limbs, as in those of the shoulderor
the hip, we may trace various modes of articulation which
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 219
are calculated to limit the extent and to regulate the kind
of movements, in subordination to particular ends. There
is certainly no part of the human fabric, wonderfully and
fearfully as the whole of it has been made, which exhibits
more palpable evidences of express mechanical contrivance
and adaptation to specific purposes, than the construction
of the joints, and of the whole of their auxiliary apparatus.
It is well observed by Paley, 1 that every joint is a mecha­
nical curiosity, and a proofofcontriving wisdom. They are,
indeed, as Cicero has truly expressed it, “ mirabiles com-
missuras, et ad stabilitatem aptas, et ad artus finiendos
accommodatas, et ad motum, et ad omnem corporis actio~
nem.” 2
(168.) There are two circumstances which determine the
kind of relative motion of which a joint, by which term is
more particularly meant the connexions of adjacent bones,
is capable. The first of these comprises the form of the
contiguous surfaces of the bones themselves which are
brought to play on each other, and their mode of apposi­
tion ; the second relates to the structure and mechanical
conditions of the inteijacent flexible parts, such as the liga­
ments, the cartilages, and the membranes, which impart dif­
ferent degrees of elastibility or springiness, and variously
modify the motions which result. With respect to the first,
the principal diversities arise from the various extent of
range allowed with regard to the planes of motion; and
these varieties are naturally distributed under two heads;
the one being a semi-rotatory motion within a considerable
extent of a spherical surface, as exemplified in what are
called the ball and socket joints; the other, in which the
1 Natural Theology. * D $ N atura Deorum, 1. ii. a* 85.
^PHYSIOLOGY.
angular motion is restricted to a single plane, as is the
case with what are termed the hinge-joints. It is not neces­
sary here to advert to the further distinctious to which a
minute examination ofall the different modifications ofthese
kinds of mechanism, which are exhibited in the solid struc­
tures of the body, would lead us; which the older physiolo­
gists pursued with great diligence, and which they were fond
of dignifying with a formidable array of technical terms; a
sufficient account of these now obsolete denominations hav­
ing been already given under the head of Anatomy in this
work. It will be sufficient for our present purpose to ob­
serve, in general, that the long bones ofthe limbs have their
extremitiesexpanded so as to form broad surfaceswhere they
are in apposition with the contiguous bones, between which
a joint is formed. In the ball and socket joint, it is the
moveable bone which has the rounded head, and the fixed
bone, or that nearest to the trunk of the body, which con­
tains the corresponding cavity or socket. Such at least is
the case in man$ but some animals present us with exam­
ples of a contrary arrangement; that is, ofthe concave sur­
face of the moveable, turning on a convex projection of the
fixed bone. Bones of a flat or irregular shape are, in ge­
neral, much more limited in their motions, when they form
joints, than those of a lengthened cylindrical form.
(169*) In proportion to the extent of motion allowed in
the joint, we find provisions adopted for diminishing friction,
and guarding against injury. In all the articulations the
ends of the bones which enter into their formation, are in­
vested with a smooth and polished plate ofcartilage; a sub­
stance which, by its modified hardness, and great elasticity,
is especially adapted to both these purposes. Its limited
degree of organization, also, gives it many advantages in
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 221
withstanding the influence of pressure, especially if sudden*
ly made, and frequently repeated. In some joints this in­
vesting layer of cartilage is of equal thickness throughout,
so that it appears as a crust, regularly moulded over the
articular surface of the bone which it covers, and exactly
preserving its figure; but, in other cases, it is found to be
thicker at the middle than at the marginal parts; thereby
increasing the convexity of the projecting portion, or dimi­
nishing the concavity of those which recede; both of which
appear to be provisions for ensuring, as the case may be, the
uniformity of contact of the adjacent parts composing the
joint. These superficial articular cartilages, or “ cartilages
of incrustation,” as they have been termed, appear to be
composed of a multitude of slender fibres, strongly adher­
ing together, and all of them being perpendicular to the
tangential planes of the surface ofthe bone they invest, like
the pile of velvet, and disposed, therefore, in a manner very
similar to that of the fibres ofthe enamel ofthe teeth, which
is superimposed in nearly the same way on the bony part of
the tooth. The most complete investigation of this struc­
ture will be found in a paper of Dr. William Hunter's, pub­
lishedinthe Philosophical Transactions.1 Itresults from this
conformation, that the fibres, on the application ofpressure,
yield to a certain degree, and bend in waves; just as hap­
pensto velvet when it is compressed; and they again resume
their perpendicular positions on the removalof thecompress­
ing force*
(170.) The whole of the interior surface of each joint is
lined with a smooth and glistening membrane of great te­
nuity, forming a cavity closed on every side, and supplying
1 For 1748, vol. 42, p. 544*
L
2 2 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
a peculiar secretion, termed the synovia, obviously intend*
ed for the lubrication of all the contiguous surfaces. Simi­
lar synovial membranes, as they are called, forming, in like
manner, closed sacs, are met with, surrounding the sheaths
of the tendons, and interposed between other parts, the mo­
tions of which would expose them to considerable friction.
In the former case, when employed in the articulations,they
are termed capsules of the joints 5 in the latter, they have
received the inappropriate name of B ursa M ucosa. The
synovia is a transparent and viscid fluid, slippery to the feel,
and capable of being drawn out into strings by the fingers.
It has been imagined that the secret m is principally de­
rived from certain fringe-like processes, chiefly visible in
the knee and hip-joints, and constituting what have been
called the alar ligaments. These membranous appendages,
which project into the cavity of the joint, and appear to be
formed by folds of the synovial membrane, containing some
cellular substance, and small pellets of adipose matter, pre­
sent an appearance very similar to that of the epiploic du-
plicatures of the peritoneum, and especially of the appen­
dices epiploicae of the colon.
(171.) The motions which a joint is capable of perform­
ing are often modified and extended by the interposition of
detached plates of cartilage, connected only by ligament
with the synovial capsule, and capable of shifting their po­
sition, so as to enlarge the range and modify the mode of
action. Those which we have already described under the
title ofinterarticular cartilages,ext met with chieflyin those
joints where the motion is frequent and considerable,' and
wheretheends ofthe bones are subjected to great pressures;
as in the junction of the lower jaw with the temporal bone,
and in the knee-joint. The semilunar cartilages, in this
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 2 2 3
latter example, increase the depth of the articular cavity,
and ensure, in all the motions of the joint, a perfect adapta­
tion of the surfaces to one another.
(172.) The bones are retained in connexion, their junc­
tion strengthened, and their relative movements farther re­
gulated, by the ligaments which invest the joint. Of these
there are two kinds, the capsular, and thefascicular ; the
former investing the joint on all sides in the case ofthe ball
and socket articulation; and the latter passing from bone
to bone in difFerent directions, limiting the motion more or
less to a particular plane. When, in the hinge-joint, they
are placed externally on the two sides, they form what are
called lateral ligaments ; but in the case of the knee, addi­
tional securities are provided, by short and round ligaments,
crossing one another in the interior of the joint; these are
the crucial ligaments. Besides these, we often find other
ligamentous bands, passing more obliquely, and dispersedin
different directions, which assist in strengthening the joint,
preventing the displacement of the bones, and thus com­
pleting the mechanical apparatus of each articulation. The
muscles which surround thejoint also contribute verypower­
fully in retaining the bones in their proper places, and pre­
venting the sudden dislocations which might otherwise oc­
cur during the strains incident to rapid and violent actions.
*
2. Package o f Organs*
(173.) The great mechanical objects of adhesion and sup­
port being provided for by the organic systems we have no#
considered, our attention may next be directed to purposes
of a subordinate and special nature, and which relate to lo­
cal adaptations, comprehending what Faley has aptly tenp-
224 PHYSIOLOGY.
cd the package of the organs. Art and contrivance have
been as manifestly displayed in fulfilling these more limit­
ed objects, as in the more extended designs of the gene­
ral fabric. When we consider the vast multiplicity ofparts,
which it requires the study of years of patient instruction
and dissection to be thoroughly acquainted with, which are
closely arranged and stowed in the narrow space allotted for
them in the body, we cannot but be struck with the care
that has been taken in their disposal in the most convenient
manner, and with the greatest economy of room. The brain
consists of a prodigious number of fibres, gathered together
in curious folds, or convolutions, in or er that they may oc­
cupy the smallest possible bulk, and be contained within the
circumscribed cavity of the skull, which is to afford them
protection. Within how small a compass are lodged all the
delicate parts which compose the complex organ of hear­
ing, and which are encased in a hollow space, scooped out
of the most solid parts of those bones. Equal care has been
bestowed in the lodgment and package of the viscera which
occupy the other cavities of the body, namely, the thorax
and abdomen. Those which are of greatest importance to
life, and whose delicate texture admit most easily of being
injured, are always placed in situations of greatest security,
and effectual care is taken to provide additional protection
by means of bones, cartilages, or other denser mechanical
fabrics. All the organs are tied down and secured in their
places by membranes, so adjusted in regard to breadth and
flexibility, as to allow of those motions which their func­
tions require; or, in other cases, to restrain their displace­
ment, by tightly binding them in their situations. All the
important viscera are invested with coverings proper to
themselves, composing capsules, which are generally of
THE MECHANICAL FUNCTIONS. 226
great density and strength, and calculated to give them ef­
fectual protection against pressure orother mechanical cau­
ses of injury. The muscles, which are in strongest and
most frequent action, are firmly braced and tied down by
sheetsoffibrous tissue, inserted into the neighbouring bones,
and preventing them from starting from their places when
urged into sudden and violent contractions. Lastly, all the
spacesinterveningbetweenthe muscles,blood-vessels,nerves,
and bones, are filled up with a quantity of cellular and adi­
pose substances, sufficient to leave no vacuity. Hence ari­
ses that rounded and flowing outline which has been given
to the body, and which forms one of the constituent ele­
ments of its beauty.
(174.) The provision of a general envelope to the whole
of this complex system of organs, may be regarded as an­
other consideration which appertains to the subject now be­
fore us, namely, the package of the body; but its impor­
tance is such as to entitle it to be treated of under a sepa­
rate section.
(175.) This combination of structures, individually pos­
sessing different degrees of rigidity, but cemented together
by a highly elastic medium, and bound down by a general
envelope of considerable strength, produces a result, which,
being of considerable importance with reference to the me­
chanical condition of the fabric, is deserving of special no­
tice. It is matter of observation that the sum of the cohe­
sive forces among the particles composing the mass of ani­
mal tissues, is balanced, in the living body, only by the
resistance arising from the rigidity or incompressibility of
the parts opposed to them; or, in other words, the force
of elasticity in the cellular and membranous textures is not
in a state of neutrality, but the equilibrium is maintained
2 2 6 PHYSIOLOGY.
only by the mechanical circumstances of situation. Thus
it happens that, when these circumstances are altered, and
the equilibrium disturbed, elasticity comes into play and
produces a shrinking of the whole mass. The result is that,
in the natural state, every part is kept on the stretch; but
retracts as soon as its elasticity is allowed to act by the re*
moval of the extending cause. This will happen whenever
the contents of hollow organs are withdrawn, whenever the
parts themselves are divided transversely by a cutting in­
strument, and also when, by a change of position, their ex­
tremities are brought nearer together, and the mass assumes
a more rounded figure. This proper# v, the result of ahigh
degreeofunbalanced elasticity, has long been known,though
described under various names. The term by which it
has most frequently been designated is that of tone or to­
nicity ; but Bichat, who has given a good description of
its effects, denominated it “contractilite de tissu” and “con­
tractilite par defaut d’extension,” whilst he regards tonicity
as another and distinct property not of a mechanical, but of
a vital nature. The observations we have formerly made
on the vital properties, will show that we regard the distinc­
tion which he here makes as being founded on very ques­
tionable grounds.
SECT. IV.— THE INTEGUMENTS.
1 . The E xternal Integuments.
(176.) The skin, which gives covering to the whole body,
together with itB various prolongations and parts connected
with it, and constituting altogether the integuments, are
complex structures. They consist, in the first place, ofor­
THE EXTERNAL INTEGUMENTS. 2 2 7
dinary cellular tissue; secondly, of the same substance in
a more condensed and membranous form; and, thirdly, of
a stratum of adipose substance; but they also present us
with a kind of structure which differs totally from any of
those we have hitherto had occasion to notice. For the
clear understanding of these distinctions, it will be neces­
sary, first to explain in greater detail the composition of the
eAtemal integuments, or the skin.
The parts of which skin consists are arranged in layers;
and in giving an account of these we shall take them in an
order the reverse of that in which they are usually consi­
dered ; beginning with the innermost layers, and proceed­
ing successively to the more external.
(177.) That portion of the integuments which is called
the true skin, is in most parts of the body separated from
the subjacent muscles or bones, by a stratum of fat, or ra­
ther ofadipose substance; that is, as we have already seen,
of a cellular and vesicular structure, containing the minute
globules of the fat. In other parts, the attachment of the
skin is effected merely by interposed common cellular sub­
stance, of more or less thickness and density in different
places. The succeeding layer is that which forms by far
the largest portion of the integuments, and has been de­
nominated the corion, or the true skin. Its ultimate struc­
ture is described by Haller as being analogous to that of
membranous parts; that is, composed of a dense intertex­
ture of short fibres and of plates, artificially interwoven to­
gether, and united by the close adhesion of their surfaces.
It may in this view, therefore, be considered as merely a
denser tissue of the common cellular substance, which is,
in fact, the basis of most animal structures. This density
increases gradually as we trace the texture from the inner
* 228 PHYSIOLOGY*
to the outer parts; while at its interior surface it passes
gradually into the looser cellular texture which is beneath
it. Bichat gives a similar description ofthe essential struc­
ture of the corion, but states that, in addition to this, there
are found a great number of dense fibres, of a whiter co­
lour than the rest, interspersed throughout its substance,
which pass in all possible directions, so as of themselves to
compose a close net-work, and leave certain interstices or
areola. This reticulated texture, with the interposed va­
cuities, may be discovered by long-continued maceration,
which loosens the adhesion ofthe fibres. Small masses of
fat are found occupying the intervals ’retween them. Thus
the dense fibres of the corion may be regarded as the chief
support or skeleton, as it were, of the whole fabric, giving it
its requisite form, consistence, and other mechanical pro­
perties.
(178.) The external portion of the corion is more finely
organized than the rest. It has been considered as fornrt-
ing a distinct layer of the skin, named by Bichat, from the
large proportion of minute blood-vessels it contains, the
vascular net-work; and by other anatomists, corpus papil­
late, from its presenting on its outer surface, when viewed
with the microscope, an immense number of little eminen­
ces or conical projections, which have been termed papilla.
These papillae were discovered by Malpighi, and have been
since described and delineated by Ruysch, Albinus, and
many other anatomists. Cheselden and others, however,
have doubted their existence, at least as a necessary ap­
pendage of the corion; for papillae are perfectly visible to
the naked eye on the upper surfaceofthe tongue, wherethey
are presented on a very large scale. Theyarealso easilyper-
ceived, with a magnifying glass, at the tips of the fingers, as
THE EXTERNAL INTEGUMENTS. 229
well as in other organs endowed with a peculiar sensibility
to impressions of touch. But in those parts of the body
which have not the same sensibility, and are' seldom em­
ployed as the vehicles of touch, they are so minute as
scarcely to admit of detection; and their existence ha*
been inferred rather from analogy than from distinct and
positive observation.
(179*) The external surface of the corion, or of the cor­
pus papillare, is covered with a thin layerofa soft substance,
which has been termed the Rete Mucosum. It was first ob­
served by Malpighi, in the skin of the negro, and is hence
often called after him the Rete M alpighianum. The struc­
ture, and even existence of this membrane have given oc­
casion to much controversy. Malpighi had announced it as
being a stratum of soft matter, disposed in the form of lines
which crossed one another in various directions. Blumen-
bach and other anatomists describe it as merely a thin layer
of pulpy matter, without any distinct reticulated structure,
Bichat, on the other hand, denies altogether its existence
as a proper membrane, and supposes that what Malpighi saw
and described is merely a collection of very delicate vessels,
which, after having passed through the corion, form a net­
work on its surface. In this opinion he is supported by
other anatomists of high authority, as Chaussier and Rudol-
phi. Mr. Cruickshank, 1 on the contrary, who has bestow­
ed great pains on the examination of this subject, entertains
no doubt of the existence ofthe rete mucosum, both in the
external skin, and also even in some of its productions in the
interior of the body. Dr. Gordon admits of the presence
of the rete mucosum in the skin of the negro, where it is
1On Insensible Perspiration•
2 3 0 PHYSIOLOGY*
easily demonstrated; but asserts that it cannot be found in
that of the European* On the whole, the positive evidence
in favour of the real existence of this membrane appears to
preponderate; and at any rate, it seems admitted on all
hands, that the colouring matter of the skin, which is black
in the negro, and has different tints in the other varieties of
the human race, is situated in that part which has been as­
signed as the seat of the rete mucosum* By some it has
been stated that the rete mucosum extends in a uniform
layer over the whole surface of the true skin ; by others that
it is perforated in various parts by the papillae of the corion,
and exists only in the interstices of these papillae*
(180.) The outermost layer of the ikin is the cuticle or
epidermis, which gives a uniform covering to every part of
its surface, adhering closely to it, and being accurately ap­
plied to all its inequalities. It adheres with considerable
tenacity to the subjacent skin, through the medium of the
rete mucosum, and its attachment is perhaps also secured
by fibres passing from the one to the other. In the dead
skin a separation is easily effected by maceration in water,
and by a state of incipient putrefaction* In the living body
the cuticle is detached by the operation of a blister, or by
scalding water, which produce an effusion of serous fluid on
the outer surface of the corion* As the Cuticle is impervi­
ous to this fluid, it is raised, and gives rise to a permanent
vesicle.
(181.) When the cuticle is carefully separated from the
corion, after its connexion has been loosened by putrefac­
tion, a multitude of vary slender transparent filaments are
seen, stretching between these two layers, which are tom
asunder when farther extended* Dr. William Hunter be­
lieved these filaments to be the terminations of those ves-
THE EXTERNAL. INTEGUMENTS. 2 3 1
s&ls which exhale the perspiration, and nearly the some
views have been entertained with regard to their nature by
Bichat and by Chaussier. Cruickshank, on the contrary,
considered them to be processes from the cuticle, and not
vessels.
(182.) Many erroneous notions have at different times
prevailed with respect to the intimate structure of the epi­
dermis. Leeuwenhoeck conceived that it is composed of a
number of laminae, or scales, which he represented as hav­
ing an imbricated arrangement, that is, overlapping each
other successively, like the scales of a fish. But it is now
generally admitted that this was a deceptive appearance.
The division of layers, which it may seem to admit of in
parts where it is of unusual thickness, is merely an artificial
separation, not warranted by any natural distinction of tex­
tures. Although some have pretended to discover in it a
congeries of vessels, especially lymphatics, yet the most ac­
curate and unbiassed observers declare that they cannot
perceive in the epidermis, a specific texture of any kind or
any regular arrangement of its parts. Dr. Gordon gives it
as his decided opinion that it is “ truly inorganized, and
non-vascular.”
(183.) Leewenhoeck imagined also that he could discern
a number of perforations, or pores, as he termed them, in
the cuticle. But later and more scrupulous inquirers have
looked in vain for these supposed pores; and it is now ge­
nerally admitted that none such exist Indeed, one of the
most characteristic properties ofthe cuticle is its impermea­
bility to fluids, under ordinary circumstances. The latest
inquiries into this subject are those of Mr. Chevalier, who
describes the cuticle as composed of an infinite number of
small velaminOf regularly arranged, so as to form a bibulous
2 3 2 PHYSIOLOGIC
and exquisitely hygrometrical covering.1 The modem which
the occasional transmission of fluids through this substance
takes place in cutaneous“absorption, and perspiration, will
be the subject of future discussion. The only real distin­
guishable pores in the cuticle are those which give passage
to the hairs, and to the sebaceous follicles hereafter to be
noticed.
Thus, then, there is presented to us in tins layer of the
integument, a kind of structure differing essentially from
either the cellular or membranous tissues which have al­
ready been described. The epidermis is an animal texture,
nearly homogeneous in its substance, possessing but a mo­
derate degree of extensibility, and app/oaching to the na­
ture of an inorganic substance, inasmuch as it exhibits no
appearance of vascularity, and a total absence of nerves, or
other medium of connexion with the living system. Bichat
even considers its vitality as exceedingly obscure; he doubts
whether it can be said to possess life; but is inclined to re­
gard it as a semi-organized, or rather inorganic body, plac­
ed by nature at the point of communication between ex­
ternal dead matter and the living skin, and serving asa gra­
dation between them.
(184.) The nails and the hair are to be classed as struc­
tures very similar to the epidermis, of which, indeed, they
are often regarded as mere appendages. The nails, in par­
ticular, have so intimate an adhesion to the epidermis, that
both are generally detached together, by maceration. They
consist of hard, transparent, and semi-elastic plates, formed
of a substance analogous, to the hornsofanimals. They ad­
here to the subjacent corion, (which is in those parts fur-
Zeciunt eft the General Structure if the HumanBody, p. 13&
THE EXTEBNAL INTEGUMENTS. 2 3 3
nished with a great abundance of minute blood-vessels, and
of which the papillae are arranged in longitudinal and paral­
lel rows, very close to one another,) in a manner similar to
that in which the epidermis adheres to the corion in other
parts. The internal surface of the nail is soft, pulpy, and
marked with longitudinal grooves corresponding to the lines
which they cover and enclose; and by this mutual adapta­
tion the connexion between them is extremely intimate.
The innermost edge of the nail is received into a groove
formed of a duplicature of skin fitted for its reception. The
epidermis belonging to this portion of skin is folded back
upon it, and on arriving at the root of the nail, quits the co­
rion, is reflected over the external surface of the nail, and
becomes identified with its substance.
The nails, in all their mechanical properties, correspond
to the cuticle, and may be regarded as the same substance
in a greater state of condensation.
The hair consists of slender filaments, which appear to
be formed of nearly the same substance as the nails, and
may be considered, in a mechanical point of view, as still
more condensed forms of cuticle. Each hair is provided at
its root, with an expanded portion, or bulb, from which its
extension proceeds, and which, by the intervention of its
vessels, connects it with the corion, in which it is imbedded,
just as the roots of a vegetable attach it to the soil. The
strength of hair is exceedingly great, compared with its
small diameter, as has been frequently ascertained by try­
ing the weights which it can support without tearing. There
is no substance, indeed, which would be better adapted for
makingropes than human hair, provided it could be procured
of sufficient length. It scarcely possesses any extensibility,
and is consequently inelastic. If exposed to moisture, it
2 3 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
imbibes a certain quantity of water ; and this absorption is
accompanied with an increase in the length of the hair.
From its having this property, it has been employed by De
Saussure as a hygrometer, or instrument for indicating the
degree of moisture or dryness of the atmosphere. In order
to adapt it to this purpose, however, it requires to be freed
from a quantity of oily matter, which it naturally contains,
by maceration in an alkaline solution. The colouring mat­
ter of the hair is supposed to correspond in its nature, as it
does in its appearance, to that which is contained in the
rete mucosum of the skin.
Thus we find that there is a very considerable similarity
between the hair, the nails, and the cuticle, with regard both
to structure, composition, and mechanical properties; and
that they may be regarded, when once their formation has
been completed, as equally devoid of vascularity, and as pos­
sessed of the lowest degrees of organization and vitality; if,
indeed, these latter properties can at all be attributed to
them.
2. O fthe Internal Integuments, or the Mucous
Membranes*
(185.) The structure which characterises the external
integuments, is continued in various places into the internal
parts; and is found, with certain modifications, in all those
membranes which line the internal surfaces of cavities or
channels having an external opening. This is the case with
the whole track of the alimentary canal; including the
mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and intestines. It is
exemplified, also, in all the passages of the air in respira­
tion, as the nostrils, larynx, trachea or wind-pipe, bronchia
THE INTERNAL INTEGUMENTS. 2 3 5
or air tubes, and the air vesicles of the lungs. All those
passages which open externally, such as those of the ears,
urethra, and vagina, are likewise defended by a lining of
mucous membrane.
(186.) Bichat has considered the mucous membranesas
forming a distinct system of structure. Analogous in many
respects to the serous membranes, they present, in others,
the most marked differences. They agree in their office of
affording protection to the organs towhich theyare attached;
and their structure, in as far as it is chiefly resolvable into
condensed cellular tissue, is very similar. But as they have
to serve the additional office of defending the parts which
they invest against the irritating qualities of the substances
that may come in contact with them, and which may be
either the external air or the food, or extraneous bodies, re­
ceived from without; or else secretions formed by the in­
ternal organs, which are to be conducted to the surface, it
Vas necessary that the fluid which covered them should have
properties adapted to this object
(187.) We find, accordingly, that instead of the watery
liquid which exudes from serous membranes, the mucous
membranes prepare a secretion containing a large propor­
tion of mucus. Hence a more complicated structure is re­
quired in the mucous than in the serous membranes. They
are divisible into several layers; that which connects them
with the parts surrounding the passage or cavity which they
line, is of a denser structure; while the one which forms the
inner surface of the cavity is softer, and somewhat pulpy in
its consistence. Its surface is beset, in many parts, with
numerous minute processes, or villi, as they are termed.
These have been supposed to bear some analogy to the pa­
pillae of the corion; and the general correspondence of the
2 3 6 PHY BIOLOGY*
structure ofthe mucous membrane and ofthe external inte­
guments has been farther pursued in the examination ofthe
fine pellicle which gives an universal covering to the pulpy
portion,andwhich has been assimilated to the cuticle. There
can be no doubt that the cuticle belonging to the skin is
continued over the membranes which line many of the pas­
sages above enumerated, and may be traced for a consider­
able way in those passages. As we advance farther, this
cuticular covering becomes gradually thinner, till it ceases
to be perceptible.
(186.) But the circumstance which more especially cha­
racterises the mucous membranes, ;s the presence ofa num­
ber of small cavities, crypts or follicles as they are called ;
which have more or less of a spheroidal shape, and which
open upon the surface of the membrane by a distinct orifice,
or duct of communication. These minute sacs or follicles
are themselves lined with an extremely fine cuticular mem­
brane, derived from the general covering of the surface on4
which they are met with. They are found filled with mu­
cus, and are therefore considered as the sources whence that
secretion is principally derived.
(189*) Follicles of a similar structure are found in the
various parts of the skin;but the substance which they pro­
duce, and which they efiuse upon the surface of the skin, is
more of an oily, than of a mucous nature. It has been
termed sebaceous m atter $ and the small cavities which pre­
pare this matter, are known by the name of the sebaceous
glands orfollicles.
(19(h) Thus it appears, that although the offices of the
external integuments of the internal mucous membranes
are sufficiently distinct, yet a general analogy exists between
them in many points of their structure* sufficient to justify
MUSCULAR ACTION. 237
their being arranged under the same order, in a general
classification of animal structures.
SECT. IV. MUSCULAR ACTION.
(191•) Having now considered the system which consti­
tutes the passive instruments of the fabric, it is time that
we direct our attention to the active powers which are the
sources of motion, and the springs of animation and of en­
ergy in the living body.
(192.) As in an extensive system of machinery, economy
is best consulted by the employment of a single moving
power, such as a fall of water, the impulse of the wind, the
current of a river, or the force of steam, so, in the animal
economy, nature has provided the muscular power, and ap­
plied it in every instance where greatmechanical power was
required to accomplish the intended object. But before in­
quiring into the nature of this new animal power, it willbe
necessary to consider the properties of those organs, the
muscles, in which this power appears to reside.
1 . Structure o f Muscles.
(193*) Muscles are organs composed of certain fibres, en­
dowed with a peculiar power of contracting in their length,
under certain circumstances. These fibres are generally
disposed in a parallel direction, and variously united toge­
ther by intervening cellular substance. The muscular sys­
tem forms a large proportion of the weight, and certainly
the greater part of the bulk of the human body.
(194.) On examining the structure of a muscle, we find
the minuter fibres are every where surrounded by a fine
cellular texture, which connect them together into bundles,
which have been calledfasciculi. These bundles are con­
nected to each other by coarse cellular membrane, so as to
2 3 8 PHYSIOLOGY.
form fasciculi of larger size: these, again, are united toge­
ther into still larger fasciculi by a still more loose cellular
tissue. This system of package is continued until we ar­
rive at large cylindrical bands of fibres, which have been
termed laeerti, and which, being applied laterally to each
other, and covered by a general investment of membrane,
compose the entire muscle. The fasciculi, as well as the
cellular membrane, are coarser in some muscles than in
others. Thus they are thicker in the large muscles of the
limbs, than in the delicate muscles appropriated to the eye,
and other organs of sense. The structure which has now
been described is easily discovered, in a portion of muscle
which has been cut transversely, and then boiled for some
time, or macerated in alcohol.
(195.) Physiologists have not contented themselves with
these general views of the structure of muscles, but have
been solicitous to ascertain the nature and dispositions of
the ultimate fibres to which muscles owe their characteristic
properties. The microscope has been resorted to for this
purpose; but the success of those observers who have trust­
ed to this instrument in establishing any certain facts, has
by no means corresponded with the diligence and zeal with
which they have engaged in the inquiry. We find in this,
as in many other subjects where the appearances resulting
from the employment of very high magnifying powers are
the objects of research, that the greatest discordance pre­
vails among the accounts given by different observers.
Leewenhoeck, who was one of the first who applied the mi­
croscope to the investigation of the intimate structure of
organized bodies, but who was too often led away from the
truth by the ardour of his imagination, describes the ulti«*
mate muscular fibres, or those which admit of no further
STRUCTURE OF MUSCLES* 239
mechanical division without a separation of their substance,
as being almost inconceivably minute. He states them to
be many thousand times smaller than a fibre which would
only be just visible to the naked eye. He represents them
as cylindrical in their shape, and parallel to each other, but
pursuing a serpentine course. He remarks that they are of
the same figure in all animals, although differing consider­
ably in their diameter in different animals, and that without
any relation to the size of the animal. He observed, for
example, that the fibril of the frog was larger than that of
the ox.
( 1 9 6 .) Muys, a Dutch anatomist, who was engaged fora
period of twenty-five years in the most laborious researches
on this subject, arrived at a very different result from Lee-
wenhoeck; for he concludes that the real ultimate fibrils of
muscles are in all cases, even when the comparison was ex­
tended to animals, exactly of the same size.
(197.) Among the more modem anatomists, Prochaska1
has bestowed the greatest care in the examination of this
subject; and his account has every appearance of being en­
titled to our confidence. He states expressly that the mus­
cular fibrils are not all of the same diameter, but differ in
different animals, and even in different parts of the same
animal. Each individual fibril, however^ when carefully se­
parated from all extraneous matter, is of uniform thickness
throughout its whole extent, and perfectly continuous, even
in the longest muscles, from one end to the other. He con­
fidently asserts that they are solid; and instead of being
cylindrical, that they have a prismatic, or polyhedral shape,
generally flattened, or thicker on one side than on the other $
a transverse section of the muscle thus presenting the ap-
1 De Came Musadari,
2 4 0 rarsioL O G *.
pearance of basaltic columns in miniature. Their diameter
is stated to be about the fiftieth part of that of the globules
of the blood. Their surface was found to present a num­
ber of depressions or wrinkles; a circumstance which gives
them a serpentine appearance. These transverse lines he
attributes to the numerous blood-vessels, nerves, and mem­
branous bands which cross the fibrils at different points.
(198.) According to Hooke and Swammerdam, the mus­
cular fibrils are composed of a series of globules. Other
physiologists, such as Cowper and Stuart, 1 whose obser­
vations appear to have been influenced by preconceived
theories, imagined that they were cellular. Borelli, 2 who
was also biassed by his favourite hypothesis, believed them
to be composed of a series of rhomboidal vesicles. The
Abbe Fontana3 in general agrees with Prochaska in his re­
presentation of muscular fibrils. He remarks that they are
furnished with transverse bands at regular intervals, and
that they may always be distinguished by their parallel dis­
position from the fibres of membrane, which are more or
less contorted.
Sir Anthony Carlisle4 states that a muscular fibre duly
prepared, by washing away all adhering extraneous sub­
stances, and viewed by a powerful microscope, appears to
be asolidcylinder,the covering ofwhich isareticulated mem­
brane, and the contained part, a dry pulpy substance, irre­
gularly granulated, and of little cohesive power when dead.
(1990 Mr. Bauer,3 who is one o f the latest authorities
on this subject, represents the ultimate muscular fibrils, as
composed of a row of globules, exactly corresponding in
1 Diaeertatio de Structure et Motu Mutcukru
* De Motu Animalium. * Swr be Poieom*
4 PhUoeophicat Draneactiom for 1805. 9Mi* for 1818, p.164.
STRUCTURE OP MUSCLES. 241
size to those of the blood when deprived of their colouring
matter; that is, about the five-thousandth part of an inch*
By long maceration in water, he finds that the mutual co­
hesion of these globules is loosened, and the fibre is conse­
quently broken down and resolved into a mass of globules.
The general results of Mr. Bauer’s observations were con­
firmed by various observers in France, such as Dr. Ed­
wards, and by Messrs Prevost and Dumas, Beclard and
Dutrochet.
(200.) On the other hand, the more recent, and appa­
rently accurate researches of Dr. Hodgkin and Mr. Lister, 1
and subsequently those of Mr. Skey, 8 have clearly shewn
that the supposed globular structure of the muscular fibre
is a mere optical deception, arising from deficient defining
power in the microscope employed ; and that the fibre is
continuous throughoutits wholelength,andsometimesmark­
ed by transverse striae, which occur at intervals much small­
erthan thediameterofthe fibre itself. They have also point­
ed out this circumstance as constituting a remarkable dis­
tinction between the muscles of voluntary and those of invo­
luntary motion, with regard to this striated structure; for it
is only the fibres ofthe former which are characterized by in­
numerable very minute, but clear and fine parallel lines, or
striae, which cross the fibre transversely. Mr. Skey con­
cludes from his researches, that these fibres in man have an
average diameter of one four-hundredth of an inch, and that
they are surrounded by transverse circular striae varying in
thickness, and in the number contained in a given space*
He describes these striae as constituted by actual elevations
1 Appendix to Dr. Hodgkin’s translation of Dr. Edwards’ work,
“ D t ll^fluenct dea Agios Physiques sur la Fie.”
>Philosophical Transactions for 1837, p. 871.
242 PHYSIOLOGY.
on the surface of the fibre, with intermediate depressions,
considerably narrower than the diameter of a globule of
blood. Each of these muscular fibres, of which the diame­
ter is one four-hundredth of an inch, is divisible into bands
or fibrillse, each of which is again subdivisible into one hun­
dred tubular filaments, arranged parallel to one another in
a longitudinal direction, around the axis of the tubular fibre
which they compose, and which contains in its ceptre a
soluble gluten. The partial separation of the fibrillse gives
rise to the appearance of broken or interrupted circular
striae, which are occasionally seen. The diameter of each
filament is one sixteen-thousandth of an inch, or about a
third part of that of a globule of the blood. On the other
hand,the muscles of involuntary motion,(or as Bichat would
term them, of organic life) are composed, not of fibres si­
milar to those above described, but of filaments only; these
filaments being interwoven witheachother in irregularly dis­
posed lines of various thickness, having for the most part a
longitudinal direction, but forming a kind of untraceable
net-work. They are readily distinguishable from tendin­
ous fibres, by the filaments of the latter being uniform in
their size, and pursuing individually one unvaifying course,
in lines parallel to one another. The fibres of the heart
appear to possess a somewhat compound character of tex­
ture. The muscles of the pharynx exhibit the character of
the muscles of voluntary motion; whilst those of the oeso­
phagus, the stomach, the intestines, and the arterial system,
possess that of the muscles of involuntary motion* The
determination of the exact nature of the muscular fibres of
the iris, presented considerable difficulties, which Mr* Skey
was not able satisfactorily to overcome*
MUSCULAR CONTRACTILITY. 2 4 3
2. M uscular Contractility.
(201.) The proper muscular fibre is so completely sur­
rounded by cellular membrane, and is of so small a dia­
meter, that it is scarcely possible to determine with accu­
racy its physical properties, independently of those of the
tissue in which it is imbedded. The contractile power with
which.it is endowed, can be studied only as its effects are
exhibited by collections of fibres, such as those which con­
stitute the muscles; although in these it must obviously be
combined with the elastic power of the cellular texture en­
tering into its composition.
(2 0 2 ;) It will soon be evident, however, that the property
by which the muscular fibre is eminently characterized, is
that of suddenly contracting in its length, and thus ofbring­
ing the two ends of the muscle, and the parts to which those
ends are attached, nearer to each other. This contraction
is produced with astonishing quickness and force, overcom­
ing considerable resistances, and raising enormous weights.
It is generally the effect of the will of the animal to move
the parts to which the muscle is attached; but it may also
be excited By other causes. The agent which thus pro­
duces muscular contraction is called a stimulus.
(203.) Under the appellation of stimuli, are included
manythings whichseem scarcely to haveanypropertyincom­
mon, except that ofacting upon the muscular fibres, either
directly, or through the medium of the nerves which sup­
ply them. The contact of many bodies will produce this
effect by mere mechanical impulse, independently of any
other quality they may possess. Whatever occasions a me­
chanical injury to the texture of the muscle or nerve, or an
actual breach of substance, such as the puncture, division,
244 PHYSIOLOGY.
or laceration of the fibres, will immediately excite muscu­
lar contraction. This effect also results from the applica­
tion of any substance exerting a chemical action on the
part; a class of stimuli which comprehends a great variety
ofagents, such as acids, alkalies, and most of the salts which
they form by their mutual combinations, as also the earthy
and metallic salts, alcohol, the volatile oils ; and above all,
oxygen, either in the form of gas, or when contained in
substances that part with it readily. Even water itself
seems to have some corrugating power when it is applied
directly to the muscular fibre; its iction, however, is much
increased by minute quantities of salt which it may hold in
solution. Thus it is found that hard water promotes the
contraction of the muscles of fidfithat have been crimped
more than fresh water $ and a similar difference of effect is
often observed in boiling meat in soft or in hard water.
(204.) But besides these, there are several of the vege­
table and animal products which, when applied to the body,
produce muscular contraction by an agency which cannot
clearly be traced to any chemical property they possess.
This class of stimuli includes a variety of substances which
are denominated acrid, and others which are called narco*
tics, because when largely applied they destroy altogether
the power of contraction, and soon extinguish life. As an
example of this latter class, we may take opium and hydro­
cyanic acid.
(205.) Some particular muscles have a disposition to be
acted on more especially by particular kinds of stimuli.
Each stimulus applied to the body generally, appears to ex­
ert a particular influence upon certain ports of the system
which are predisposed to be affected by it, while on other
\it appears to be wholly inert. Thus emetic substances
MUSCULAR CONTRACTILITY. 245
act principally on the stomach, even when applied to a dif­
ferent part of the system; and cathartic substances act spe­
cifically on the intestines. The muscular fibres of the heart
are more particularly excited to contraction by the influx
of blood into the cavities of that organ ; and, in like man­
ner, every system of musculaf fibres concerned in carrying
on the vital functions, has a specific disposition to be affect­
ed by its appropriate stimulus.
(206.) All the muscles which move the joints of the
limbs, and the several parts of which the skeleton is com­
posed, together with several muscles attached to the softer
parts, such as the eye, tongue, and throat, are excited to
contract by the stimulus of the will, and are therefore call­
ed voluntary muscles. They compose a class by themselves,
as distinguished from those muscles which are not under the
control of volition, and which are therefore involuntary
muscles, such as the heart, stomach, intestines, and blood­
vessels. The nature ofthis distinction, and of the different
laws under which each class of musbles act, will be after­
wards pointed out, when we come to treat of the physiology
of the nervous system.
(207.) The natural state of a muscle, or that in which it
exists when not acted upon by any external cause, is relax­
ation. When contracted, its surface, from being smooth,
becomes furrowed, its middle portion swells out, and grows
exceedingly hard and firm, while the extremities are drawn
nearer to each other, so that the muscle is now both thicker
and shorter than it was before.
(208.) It has been frequently made a question whether
the increase of thickness exactly compensates for the di­
minution of length. This point might be determined
by ascertaining whether the specific gravity of a muscle
M
2 4 6 PHYSIOLOGY.
undergoes any alteration during this change. Glisson had
inferred from some experiments which he had made on this
subject, that the bulk of a muscle is, on the whole, dimi­
nished when it is in a state ofcontraction. Sir GilbertBlane,1
on the contrary, inferred from experiments which he made
on fishes confined in a glass vessel with a very slender neck,
that the absolute bulk, and of course the specific gravity, of
their muscles remains the same whether they are contract­
ed or relaxed; for the level of the water in the narrow stem
of the vessel was observed to be unaffected by the muscu­
lar exertions made by the fish. Mr. Mayo, by an experi­
ment of this kind on the heart of a dog, found the bulk of
that organ unchanged during its contraction or relaxation.2
(209-) The long-continued, ox frequent application of a
stimulus to a muscle, tends to impair its power of contract­
ing, or, in other words, to exhaust its irritability. This lia­
bility to exhaustion is exemplified by all the muscles that
are under the coiltroul of the will. We cannot continue to
exert the same muscle, or set of muscles, with the same de­
gree of power beyond a certain time, however strong may
be the motive to continue that action, and whatever men­
tal effort we may make to persevere. If, for example, we
extend the arm in a horizontal line, with a weight held in
the hand, we shall find, in the course of a few minutes, that
the source of fatigue becomes intolerably acute; and the
arm at length drops from mere exhaustion, in spite of every
voluntary effort.
(210.) The contraction of a muscle ceasing on the re­
moval of the stimulus that produced it, relaxation succeeds,
and the muscle becomes again elongated; not, however,
1PhU. Trans* for 1805, p. 22, 28.
2Anatomicaland Physical Commentaries, p. 12.
MUSCULAR CONTRACTILITY. 2 4 7
in consequence of any inherent power of elongation, but
from the operation of causes which are extraneous to it.
The elasticity ofsurrounding parts is often sufficient to pro­
duce this effect; but in most cases the elongation of the re­
laxed muscle is the consequence of the action of other
muscles, which produce motion in a contrary direction. Al­
mosteverymusclehasanother corresponding muscle,orsetof
muscles, which are antagonists to it. If the one, for in­
stance, binds a joint, the antagonist muscle unbinds or ex­
tends it; and by this action must elongate the former muscle.
(211.) The swelling of the muscles of the limbs, when
they are in strong action, is matter of familiar observation.
It is this circumstance, above all others, which renders a
knowledge of anatomy so essentially necessary to the pain­
ter and the sculptor. In every attitude and in every move­
ment of the body some particular set of muscles are in ac­
tion, and consequently swelled and prominent, while others
are relaxed and less conspicuous; and unless these differ­
ences were accurately noted and faithfully expressed, it
would be impossible to give a correct representation of the
living figure.
(212.) Although the fibres which compose the smaller
portions of a muscle are arranged in parallel directions, yet
the disposition of the mass of fibres, relatively to the whole
muscle, varies considerably according to the action which
the muscle is intended to perform. We find them, in
some cases, radiating from, or converging to a particular
point; and sometimes we even find that the different por­
tions of a muscle having this structure can act independent­
ly of the rest. The temporal muscle is an instance of a
muscle ofwhich the fibres converge from the circumference
to a central point, where they are inserted into the coro-
24S PHYSIOLOGY.
noid process of the lower jaw. In other cases the fibres
composing the muscle pass in a circular direction so as to
close upon some organ which they surround, or to compress
the bodies they enclose. Thus the eye and the mouth are
closed each by a circular or orbicular muscle. In other
parts, muscles of this description are called sphincters.
Some parts, as the iris, are provided with both radiating and
circular fibres, the one used for dilating, and the other for
contracting the central aperture. We meet with a circu­
lar arrangement of muscular fibres in the coats of the vari­
ous pipes and canals of the body, t ich as the blood-vessels
generally, and also the alimentary passages; and together
with these circular fibres are also often found bands oflon­
gitudinal fibres, which shorten tube, while the former
tends to contract its diameter, and press upon its contents.
The several hollow receptacles for fluids, such as the heart
and the stomach, present us with a still greater complica­
tion in the arrangement of their muscular fibres, in which
we may sometimes trace layers of fibres having a spiral
course.
( 213.) But it very frequently happens that the action of
a muscle is wanted when its presence would be exceeding­
ly inconvenient. The common medium of connexion em-
ployed by mechanicians, when the object to be moved is at
too great a distance to admit of the direct application of the
power, is that of a rope or strap. In the animal machine the
same purpose is effected by means oftendons, which are long
strings attached at one end to the muscle, and at the other
to the bone, or part to be moved* If the muscles by which
the fingers are bent and extended, for instance, had been
placed in the palm or back of the hand, they would have en­
larged that part to an awkward and clumsy thickness, which
MUSCULAR CONTRACTILITY. 249
would not only have destroyed the beauty and proportion of
jthe organ, but have impeded many of its uses as an instru­
ment. They are therefore disposed at the arm, even as high
up as the elbow, and their tendons pass along the joints of
the wrist, to be affixed to the joints of the fingers they are
intended to move.
(214.) The employment of tendons also reduces the space
which would have been necessary for the direct insertion of
the muscularfibres inabone,sothat thesamebonemaybeact­
ed upon in a great variety of ways, by means of the tendons
attached to it proceeding from a great number of muscles.
(215.) Another advantage resulting from the employment
of tendons is, that by their intervention a great number of
fibres are made to act in concert, and their united power is
concentrated upon one particular point. In this respect, also,
they resemble a rope, at which a great number of men are
pulling at the same moment, by which means their combined
strength is brought into action. These tendons are various­
ly disposed with respect to the muscular fibres to which they
are attached. It is but in a few muscles that the fibres are
arranged in a perfectly longitudinal direction. We often find
them covered on both sides with a tendinous investment, the
muscular fibres proceeding obliquely from the one to the
other. This arrangement forms what is called a pennifbrm
muscle, which may be either single or double. The struc­
ture is frequently even more complex than this, a number
of tendinous layers being interposed among the fleshy fibres.
By means of tendons a different direction may also be given
to the moving power, without altering its position. There
are many instances of this employmentof tendons, in which
they are made to pass through a loop, which serves as a pul­
2 5 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
ley, an expedient which is adopted in one of the oblique
muscles of the eye.
(216.) We have already seen, thatwherever friction takes
place by the motion of tendons over bones, or other hard
parts, a bursa mucosa is interposed, which obviates in a great
measure the injurious effects that would otherwise result
from the rubbing of the parts.
(217.) But although it be true that the force with which
muscles contract is very great, yet the extent to which they
are capable of exerting that force is in general very limited,
and would be insufficient for most. f the purposes their con­
traction is intended to serve, unless it were very conside­
rably enlarged by mechanical emedients. In the practice
of mechanics we find a variety dBPmtrivances had recourse
to for attaining this object; namely, the production of a
great extent of motion, by a power acting through very li­
mited space. But most of these devices would not answer
in the human body, from the inconvenience which would
attend their application. We find that nature has solved
this problem in the simplest possible manner. In the first
place, the tendons are inserted into the bones they are de­
signed to move, very near to the centres of motion, so that a
small extent ofcontraction in the musclewill produce a great
range of motion at the other extremity of the limb. The
principle is here obviously that of what mechanicians have
termed a lever of the third class, namely, that in which the
power is applied at some point intermediate between the ful­
crum and the weight to be raised, or resistance to be over­
come. Secondly, the direction of the power so applied, with
reference to the line connecting the point of application
and the centre of motion, or what is termed the radius of
MUSCULAR CONTRACTILITY. 251
rotation, is oblique; that is, it forms with it an acute angle.
Here again we may perceive another cause of the increase
of motion, obtained by a smaller extent of contraction above
that which would have resulted if the power had been ap­
plied at right angles to the radius of rotation, which is ob­
viouslythe mostadvantageousmodeofemployingthatpower,
when the object is to economise it, by giving it the greatest
mechanical advantage. It must happen, indeed, by such a
disposition of the force, that a large portion of it is lost, being
spent on a fixed obstacle, namely, on the bone of the joint,
against which the pressure is exerted; but the quickness and
velocity of the motion that results are undoubtedly increas­
ed. Thirdly, the muscular fibres are themselves obliquely
disposed with respect t$8re tendons, so that the same cause
operates in a similar manner here also. Lastly, pairs ofmus­
cles are placed so as to form an obtuse angle with one ano­
ther, and are made to contract at the same time. Their ac­
tions, therefore, will partly concur, and partly oppose one
another. They will conspire to produce a movement in the
parts to which their extremities are attached, in a direction
intermediate to that of the muscles themselves; for it is a
fundamental law of dynamics, that when a body is urged by
two forces inclined to each other at any angle, it will move
as if it were urged by a force in the direction of the diago­
nal of a parallelogram, having for its sides lines correspond­
ing in their direction and their lengths to the directions and
relative intensities of the two component forces.
(218.) In all these cases it is evident that there must be
a great loss of force; but when the muscular power is con­
cerned, we almost always find that strength is sacrificed to
convenience, and that construction adopted which unites in
the whole the most advantages. We must allow, that the
2 5 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
muscular power is turned to the best account when it is
made to perform in the completest and quickest manner the
intended motion. We find, in following the mechanism not
only of the joints of the limbs, but of the whole system of
organs, both internal and external, that the mode in which
this force is applied is diversified in every possible way. Its
combinations are varied, and its action modified beyond cal­
culation, though the original power be still essentially the
same, and observes the same laws in its action.
(219*) The source of that enormous mechanical power
which seems to be an inherent property of the muscular
power, has long been sought for by physiologists; but it
has always continued to elude their most patient and labo­
rious researches. It was at ond^flriod a favourite subject
ofspeculation to devise hypotheses as to mechanical arrange­
ments of particles capable of producing results similar to
those of muscular contraction. Borelli1conceived that each
muscular fibre might be composed of a series ofminute blad­
ders, or vesicles, of a rhomboidal figure. Stuart supposed
that these vesicles were round. But on either hypothesis
they were conceived to be empty, while the muscle remain­
ed in its natural state of relaxation. On the sudden intro­
duction of a fluid of some kind into these vesicles, their sides
would be separated, they would become distended, and as­
suming a more spherical form, would consequently be short­
ened in their longitudinal diameter; and as this shortening
would take place simultaneously in all the vesicles, the whole
muscle would be contracted in its length, and at the same
time proportionally dilated in its breadth. The contrivance
had certainly the merit of ingenuity, inasmuch as it explain­
1Dt Motu ArtmaHw*.
MUSCULAR CONTRACTILITY. 2 5 3
ed the swelling of the muscle as well as its shortening, in
the act of contraction. But it evidently will not bear the
test of serious examination. No such structure as is im­
plied in the hypothesis has ever been rendered visible to the
eye, however dexterously the microscope may have been ap­
plied to the muscular fibre; nor can we find any power suf­
ficient to propel so large a quantity of fluid as would be re­
quired for the distension ofthe vesicles; an effect also which,
in order that the theory may correspond with the pheno­
mena, must be produced almost instantaneously The re­
sistance that would be opposed to the entry of a fluid so
propelled would be incalculable, and incomparably greater
than that exerted by the muscle itself, which latter force,
it may be observed, it ij|phe professed object of this theory
to explain. The hypothesis itself, therefore, on which the
theory is built, involves a greater difficulty than the simple
lact. Such, indeed, was a very common mistake in the
speculations ofthe earlier philosophers, who were ever prone
to theorize without having any legitimate basis for the for­
mation of a theory; their foundations being often more in
need of support than the superstructure they attempted to
raise upon it. It reminds us ofthe Indian fable of the world
being carried on the back of an elephant, whilst the elephant
was supposed to require a tortoise for its own support.
(220.) The hypothesis that the fibres of muscles have a
spiral shape, and pass in a contorted line from one end of
the muscle to the other, like the turns of a corkscrew, a
form which readily admits of elongation or contraction, ac­
cording as it is more or less contorted, is quite as unsatis­
factory as the former; and equally open to the fundamental
objection, that it leaves the original source of motion still
unexplained. Muscular power, indeed, does not appear,
2 5 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
from what we hitherto know of its laws, to bear any close
analogy to any of the other great principles in nature, which
we recognize as original sources ofmechanic force; and un­
til such analogy can be traced, all our endeavours to explain
the phenomena of muscular contraction must be fruitless.
(221.) It was a favourite notion with the physiologists of
the seventeenth century, that an effervescence was excited
in the interior of the muscle, by some chemical operation;
such as a mixture of acid and alkali. Willis and others as­
cribed muscular contraction to a fermentation occasioned by
the union of the particles of the rav tele, with a supposed
nervous fluid, or ethereal spirit contained in the blood.
(222.) But in fact,the onlypower in nature to which irrita­
bility can be compared in thequietness and suddenness ofits
variations, aswell as in itsdependence on peculiarqualities of
matter,is electricity,and more particularly thatform ofelec­
tricity which constitutes galvanism. Attempts have accord­
ingly been often made, since the phenomena of galvanism
have engaged so much attention in the philosophic world,
to explain muscular contraction by means of this principle;
and endless have been the fanciful hypotheses invented for
this purpose. Each muscular fibre was at one time con­
sidered as performing the office of a separate Leyden jar,
charged with opposite electricities on its exterior and in­
terior ; whilst the filament ofnerve which penetrated into its
substance was the conducting wire, that occasioned the
discharge ofthe jar. After the discovery of the voltaic pile,
it was immediately conceived that an arrangement corres­
ponding to the plates of the pile, existed among the parti­
cles of nerve and muscle, thus composing a galvanic ap­
paratus, ready to discharge itself when the proper communi­
MUSCULAR CONTRACTILITY 25 5
cations were effected. The latest hypothesis of this kind,
is that of Prevost and Dumas, who conceived that the mus­
cular fibre was thrown, during its contraction, into serpen­
tine flexures, in consequence of the attractions of electrical
currents, passing in similar directions through minute fila­
ments ofnerves, the directions ofwhich were at right angles
to the axis of the fibres. But in the present state of the
science, all these analogies are far too vague and remote
to serve as the foundation of any solid theory.
(223.) It has been the fashion among some physiologists
to consider muscular contraction as only a particular mode
ofattraction, and as included in the general law ofattraction
which subsists among all the particles of matter; but this is
a generalization totallylPbwarranted by the phenomena.
Others have maintained that contractility is to be ascribed
to the attraction of life, and to be merely a modification of
vitality. Thus, Girtanner imagined that this property re­
sided even in the living fluids, and was co-extensive with
organized nature. This, however, is equivalent to the as­
sertion, that the phenomena requires no explanation at a ll;
for it certainly leaves the question just where it was before.
We already knew that the effect ofmuscular power indicat­
ed a peculiarity to the nature of thatpower, for they appear­
ed different from any other. To say that it is a peculiar
modification of the power of life, gives us therefore no new
information, unless it be meant that it is similar in its na­
ture to the other powers which the living organs exhibit $
but it would, in that case, convey an erroneous idea, be­
cause, the phenomena themselves being different, cannot,
according to the rules of legitimate induction, be ascribedto
the same physical cause. We have already pointed out the
256 PHYSIOLOGY.
fallacy of this mode of reasoning, in which final causes are
confounded with physical causes, and substituted for them
as philosophical explanations of phenomena.
(224.) There is, unquestionably, a greater degree of co­
hesion in the particles which compose the fibres of muscles
in their living, than in their dead state. This cohesive
jK>wer, in consequence of the connexions of the muscle in
the body, is equivalent to a constant tendency to contrac­
tion. Hence, the fibres of muscles are in a constant state
of tension, like an elastic substance kept upon the stretch.
This property, evidently derived from contractility, has been
denominated tonicity, a term which has also, as we have
seen, been applied to the peculiar state oftension of cellular
and membranous structures, derived from a particular con­
dition of their elasticity. (See § 175.) It produces the state
of tone in a muscle ; or that in which it is disposed to con­
tract to a greater degree, than its connexions with the
neighbouring parts will allow. This explains why, on cut­
ting a muscle across, the cut edges retract to a considerable
extent,leaving awide gap at the place ofsection: when, by a
sudden effort, the tendo achilles is ruptured, the muscles in
the calf of the leg to which that tendon had been attached,
being released from this stretching force, retract to a great
extent, andforma large and hard swelling high up in the leg.
(225.) On minutely examining the phenomena of mus­
cular contraction, it will be found; even in those instances
in which the contractile power appears to be exerted with
undiminished vigour for a certain time, that each individual
fibre undergoes, during the interval, a succession of changes
of condition, contracting and relaxing alternately. It is
only a certain number of the fibres that are in action at the
lame moment; their power is soqp exhausted; and until
MUSCULAR CONTRACTILITY. 2 5 7
recruited by repose, other sets offibres are thrown into con­
traction, so as to supply their place. They thus relieve one
another in succession, until by frequent action the exhaus­
tion becomes more general, and the restoration less com­
plete. In this state, the whole muscle is fatigued, its con­
tractions become irregular and unsteady in proportion as
they are more feeble, and the whole action is tremulous,
and incompetent to the production of the desired effect.
These tremulous movements are very obvious when the
muscles are weakened from any cause, as well as when ex­
hausted by excessive action. Dr. Wollaston1with his usual
acuteness, detected,by a very simple experiment, the minute
oscillations consequent upon these continual and rapid al­
ternations of contraction and relaxation in the fibre. When
the finger is inserted in the ear with a moderate degree of
force, and the pressure is continued with as much steadiness
as possible, a peculiar vibratory sound is heard, similar to
that of a carriage rolling on the pavement. This must evi­
dently proceed from a corresponding vibratory action ofthe
muscular fibres. It appears, therefore, as Dr, Wollaston
remarks, that the voluntary effect in this case, although it
may seem to us to be perfectly continuous, consists in re­
ality, of a great number ofvibrations repeated at extremely
short intervals.
(226.) There is a peculiar kind ofcontractility possessed
by membranous structures, which has often been supposed
to bear an analogy to muscular contractility, or even to be
some modification ofthis property. It is called into action
by the application of a certain degree of heat, and also by
some powerful chemical agent, such as the concentrated
mineral acids; and the effect produced is a sudden corru-
1 Philosophical Transactions for 1810, p. 2.
2 5 8 PHYSIOLOGY,
gation, or curling up of the membranous part. This phe­
nomenon was noticed by Haller, and was termed by Bichat
racomtssement. Alcohol, and many of the neutral salts
produce, but more slowly, effects which are similar in kind,
though much inferior in degree; but in this case the corru­
gation continues to increase, if the agent continues applied,
which does not happen when the more powerful agents, as
the acids, or boiling water are employed; for the continued
operation ofthese latter agents is to dissolve and disorganize
the animal substance. Bichat took considerable pains to
investigate these phenomena, and has pointed out1 several
circumstances by which this property may be distinguished
from mere menibranouselasticity. From muscular contrac­
tility, indeed, it differs much more considerably, and de­
pends, therefore, in all probability, on principles totally dif­
ferent from that remarkable animal property.
Se c t . V.— f u n c t io n s of t h e osseous f ib k ic oh
SKELETON.
(227.) The general basis for the mechanical support of
all the softer organs of the body, both in their states of
quiescence and of motion, is the osseous fabric, or skeleton ;
composing a connected frame-work of solid and unyielding
structures, fitted for the threefold purposes of giving pro­
tection to the more important organs which perform the
vital functions, of sustaining the weight of the several por­
tions into which the body may be conceived to be divided,
and of furnishing fixed points of attachment to the muscles
ormoving powers, andthus supplying them withthemechan­
icaladvantagesoflevers in the execution ofthe more power-
* Jnatomie QinMk.
ful movements of the frame, and especially in the progres­
sive motion of the whole body from place to place*
(228.) The organs more especially defended from exter­
nal injury by a bony covering, are the brain, the principal
organs of the senses, and the organs of circulation and res­
piration.
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 2 5 9
1. The Cranium.
(229.) The bones of the skull are contrived with singular
artifice and skill to afford protection to the brain, an organ,
as wc have seen, of peculiarly soft and delicate texture, and
of which the functions are so refined as to require for their
accomplishment the most perfect freedom from external
pressure, and even from any harsh vibration or concussion
of its parts. It is evidently with this view that the bony
covering of the brain, or skull-cap, as it has been called, is
constructed in the form of a vault or dome, as being the
best calculated to resist external pressure, on the well-known
mechanical principle of the arch. But pressure applied ver­
tically to an arch necessarily gives rise to an outward hori­
zontal thrust at the two ends of the arch. In architecture,
various expedients are resorted to for opposing this force.
In a bridge it is resisted by the solid abutments where the
arch takes its rise on each side. In the higher arches of or­
namental architecture it is counteracted by the weight of a
buttress placed over the origin of the arch, and in harmony
with the design of the whole. For the support of the roofof
a building, which has to rest upon perpendicularwalls, either
these walls must be built of a strength equal to withstand
this horizontal pressure, or, what is generally resorted to,
a tie-beam must be attached to the base of the roof, which
2 6 0 PHYSIOLOGY*
tie-beam will resist by its cohesive strength the force which
tends to stretch it, derived from the outward pressure of
the roof*
(230.) In the architecture of the skull we find the ex­
emplification of these methods, and their strict conformity
with the refined principles of mechanics. The two parie­
tal bones on the sides, the frontal bone before, and the
occipital bone behind, may be considered as the four great
stones which compose the convex part of the dome. If we
first consider the parietal bones, viewing them as consti­
tuting a single arch, we find that the r lower edges are be­
velled off at an acute angle, so as to be overlapped on each
side by the upper edge of the temporal bone, which con­
tinues the curvature as far as the basis of the skull. Thus
the two parietal bones are effectually wedged in between
the two temporal bones, and any pressure applied on the
top of the head, which would of course tend to thrust their
lower sides outwards, is resisted by the temporal bones. But
these temporal bones are themselves locked into the irre­
gularly-shaped sphenoidal bone, which, as we have seen,
forms the central piece of the basis of the skull, being in
actual contact with every one of the bones which compose
it, as well as the face, in which the organs of all the senses,
except that of touch, is contained. The os sphenoides thus
performs the office of a great tie-beam to the lower part
of the arched roof of the skull: and the same principles
will be found to hold good when the section of the skull is
taken in the longitudinal direction; the os frontis before,
and the os occipitis behind, which sustain their share of any
pressure made on the upper parts ofthe head, being so lock­
ed^In, by the bending inwards of their lower processes^ with
the sphenoid bone, as effectually to prevent their starting
outwardly.
(231.) Another circumstance in the architecture of the
skull is particularly deserving of notice, as it exhibits the
most marked instance of provident design. It relates to
the structure of the bones themselves, which is that best
calculated to resist fracture on the one hand, and on the
other to prevent the transmission ofvibrating concussions to
the brain. It is manifestly with this view that it is composed
of two plates of bone, the external one fibrous, tough, And
not easily broken; the inner one more dense and rigid,
offering the most poweful resistance to simple direct pres*
sure; yet, on that very account, more fragile in its nature,
and partaking therefore in the quality of brittleness, which
belongs to all the harder bodies, such as glass or flint. It
was on account of its possessing this property that it was
named the tabula vitrea by anatomists. But while it is
evident that such an accident would have been of frequent
occurence if that part of the bone had been directly ex­
posed to every casual blow, this evil has been carefully
guarded against by the interposition of a spongy intertex­
ture of bony fibres, the cancellated structure, as it is term­
ed, which forms a thick layer between the two laminae of
bone, or as they have been called, <the outer and the inner
tables of the skull. This intervening layer operates as a
cushion, arresting the progress of the vibrations from the
external to the internal plate of bone, and preventing frac­
ture.
(232.) Even when the impetus is so great as to pene­
trate through this resisting medium, still the force with
which it impinges on the subjacent parts must be very con­
siderably moderated, and the danger of injury to the brain
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABHTC. 2 6 1
2 6 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
diminished. It is with a similar design ofgiving protection
that a soldier’s helmet is lined with leather or covered with
hair; a provision which we even find in the head-piece of
the Roman soldiers, in whose equipment utility alone was
consulted, and nothing was admitted that served the pur­
pose of mere ornament. Wherever the bones of the skull
are more particularly exposed to blows, we find a greater
thickness of bone provided for the sake of additional power
of resistance.
(233.) The sutures, or joinings of these bones, are also
admirably contrived to stop the trap mission of vibrations
arising from percussion from extending to any distance
round the skull. These sutures, externally, where the
tough and fibrous plates of bone are united, present a ser­
rated line; the fibres at the edges of each being mutually
inserted between those of the contiguous bone. But this
dove-tailed joining is not met with in the inner table; there
the edges of the bone are smooth and placed in simple con­
tact. This is evidently done in order to prevent the chip­
ping off of the minute parts of a brittle structure, had they
been interlaced together as the fibres of the outer table are.
But still the interruptions afforded by the suture tends in a
great degree to check the progress of fracture.
2. The Face.
(234.) The organs of the principal senses, the eye, the
ear, the nostrils, and the mouth, are protected by the bones
of the face, which likewise form part of the skull. The
eyes are exceedingly well defendedby the superciliary ridge
of the frontal bone above, and also by the orbitalplate which
supportsthe anteriorlobes of the brain; anteriorly they are
protected by the projection of the nasal bones, and out­
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC* 2 6 3
wardly by the arched process which divides them from the
temples: while the prominent cheek bones below guard
them from injury in that quarter. No part of the body has
so effectual a protection from bone as the internal organ of
hearing: nor is there any part of the osseous system so
hard as the portion of the temporal bone in which this organ
is lodged. The nasal cavities, in like manner, which are
occupied by the membranes receiving impressions from odo­
rous effluvia, are formed in deep recesses of bone. The or­
gan of taste is also protected by the jaws, though less com­
pletely, because the same parts are required to enjoy exten­
sive power of motion.
3. The Thorax.
(235.) The heart and lungs, which are lodged in the ca­
vity of the thorax, are defended before and behind by the
spine and sternum; and laterally by the ribs, which form
bony arches, the shape best calculated for resisting pres­
sure applied externally. They are formed ofseparate pieces,
with intervals between, in order to admit of motion: for the
cavity of the chest requires to be alternately enlarged and
contracted in the performance of respiration, which is a
function of primary importance in the animal economy.
4. The Spine.
(236.) The support of the trunk and upper parts of the
body, including the head, is entrusted to a column ofbones,
the assemblage of which constitutes the spine. The spine
is that part of the skeleton of all animals composing the four
superior classes, namely, the mammalia, birds, fishes, and
reptiles, which is most constantly found, and which exhibits,
the greatest uniformity of structurer The individual bones
2 6 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
which compose the spine are so intimately united and so
firmly secured by ligaments on every side, that they appear
in the living body as one continued bone, and the whole as­
semblage is known, in ordinary language, by the name of
the back-bone* The purposes answered by this complex fa­
bric are numerous and important. It is the great central
beam of the fabric, and furnishes the basis of support to all
other bones ofthe skeleton. It serves, in particular, to unite
the bones ofthe limbs with the trunk, so that they formwith
the latter one connected frame-work. It is the axis oftheir
principal motions, the common fulcrt m round which they
all revolve. It has an intimate mechanical relation with all
the parts of the body. It affords attachment to the great
muscles which move the trunk and the principal joints of
the extremities. It contains and gives protection to that
important organ, the spinal cord, from which, as we have
seen, almost all the nerves of the body take their origin, and
which is unquestionably, next to the brain, the most essential
organ in the economy. Whilst the spinal column performs
these offices, it is at the same time capable of considerable
flexion, both laterally and longitudinally ; and admits also
of some degree of twisting motion, in a plane perpendicular
to its axis.
(237.) No where has art been more conspicuously dis­
played than in the construction of an apparatus adapted to
fulfil such opposite and apparently imcompatible functions.
To secure the firmness and strength which are required in
the basis of support to the whole body, in the key-stone, as
it were, of its various arches, whilst it is at the same rime
rendered capable of so great a variety of motions, objects
which seem utterly at variance with its also affording pro­
tection to a tender and delicate organ, in which the least
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 265
pressure would be attended with fatal consequences, must
be allowed to be a most difficult problem ofmechanism. And
yet these various, complicated, and apparently inconsistent
offices, we find executed by one and the same instrument.
Flexibility is obtained by subdividing it into a great num­
ber of small portions, eacli of which is separately allowed
but a small degree of bending upon the next; and thus a
considerable motion is obtained in the whole column, with
but a very inconsiderable one at each joint. Each bone, as
was described in the account of its anatomy, is connected
with its neighbour by a broad basis ofattachment; and the
slight relative motions of which they are susceptible are
chiefly entrusted to the lateral articulations. Whilst these
broad bones give the whole chain its requisite firmness and
stability, they are so constructed as to afford a passage,
without any diminution of their strength, to the substance,
of the spinal marrow. For this purpose each of die bodies
is hollowed out so as to form a continued groove all down
the back; and over this groove a broad arch is thrown from
each side, converting it into a complete canal. In order to
preserve the continuity of this canal, and prevent the ver­
tebrae from shifting upon one another so as to press upon
the spinal cord within, during the various movements ofthe
body, further securities are provided. They are severally
connected together by their projecting processes, which lock
into one another, and are still more firmly secured by the
ligaments that bind them down on every side. Thus, the
bodies of the vertebrae are guarded against the danger of
accidental slipping,but they are defended alsofrom displace­
ment*by any force short of what would break the bone*
(238.) But besides all these provisions the vertebral co­
lumn is protected from injury arising from violent jolts or
266 PHYSIOLOGY.
jars, by having interposed between each adjoining vertebrae,
the peculiar springy substance known by the name of the
intervertebral cartilage or ligam ent; for it in reality par­
takes ofthe nature ofboth these textures. It is a substance
quite peculiar to this part of the frame. Its compressibility
and the elastic force with which it recovers its shape when
relieved from the compressing power, must greatly lessen
the quantity of motion required of each bone during the
flexion of the column, as well as soften all the concussions
incident to violent motion. No chasm is left by their se“
paration when the spine is bent; a: d the unity ofthe whole
column, and of the channel in its centre, is preserved un­
broken. A passage is at the same time allowed between
each contiguous vertebrae for the nerves which issue in pairs
from the spinal cord, to distribute their branches and fila­
ments to every part of the body.
(239«) The natural curvatures in the line of the vertebral
column also contribute materially to the elasticity of the
whole framework. On receiving any shock in the direc­
tion of its length, the impulse, instead of being propagated
the whole length of its line, is diverted from its course and
taken off by the flexures of the column; and the mainte­
nance of its natural position is effected more by the power
of the muscles attached to the spine, than by its inherent
elasticity.
5. The Pelvis.
(240.) The broad expansion of bone which extends on
each side of the pelvis, and the extremities of which form
the hips, are evidently designed as a basis of supportfor the
viscera of the abdomen. The lower portion of the bones of
the pelvis is at the same time rendered light by being form­
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 2 6 7
ed into several arches; strengthened at the points where it
is exposed to the greatest pressure, and at the same time
affording room for the articulations of the thigh bones.
6. The Limbs in General.
(241.) The third office of the skeleton is to furnish levers
for accomplishing the progression and other movements of
the body, which require great force, great extent, and great
precision of motion. These objects are attained by the
limbs, which, as is well known, are divided into separate
portions, obviously for the purpose of increasing the facility
of adaptation to a great variety ofmovements and ofactions
which the individual may be called upon to perform.
(242.) The principal bones of the extremities have the
shape of lengthened cylinders, and compose a system of
levers adapted to the regular and accurate application of
the moving force, and for the execution of rapid, extensive,
and powerful movements. The circumstance of their hol­
low and cancellated structure is a palpable instance ofpro­
vident adaptation to the office for which they are framed.
It may be mathematically demonstrated, that if the quanti­
ty of materials assigned for the construction of the bone be
given, there is no mode in which those materials could have
been more-advantageously disposed for resisting a transverse
force, that is, a force tending to break it across, than the
form of a tube, or hollow cylinder, which is that actually
given to them by nature. If, for instance, the same quan­
tity of matter had been collected into a solid cylinder of the
same length, it would have been subject to fracture by a
much smaller force than that which it bears without injury in
its actual tubular form. This remark was long ago made by
268 PHYSIOLOGY.
the elder Dr. Monro,1 who observes that the resistance op­
posed by a body of cylindrical shape to a force applied trans­
versely is in the direct ratio of its diameter; hence the same
number of fibres disposed round the circumference of a cir­
cle in such a way as that their sections would present the
appearance of a ring, will resist with greater force than if
they had been united at the centre, so that their section
would present a circle of much smaller diameter than the
ring. The hollow cylindrical bones are accordingly found
in those situations where the power of resisting external
force is principally wanted, while it s at the same time an
object of importance not to add unnecessarily to the weight.
A simple experiment will illustrate in a very striking man­
ner this proposition. Let a cylindrical glass rod and a glass
tube be taken of the same length and also of the same
weight, so that they may both contain the same quantity of
materials. If each be then supported at their two ends, on
a frame adapted to the purpose, it will be found that the
same weight which, when hung from the rod, will break it
asunder, will, when transferred to the tube, be sustained
without even bending it in any sensible degree. Dr. Por­
terfield has given an elaborate mathematical demonstration
of the general proposition.*
(243.) There are few subjects in physiology which pre­
sent so many interesting points of inquiry, or afford more
abundant proofs of intelligence and design than the mecha­
nical properties of the osseous fabric. From the account we
formerly gave of the composition of bone, it appears that it
is constructed of two principal materials, an earthy basis,
which is the phosphate of lime, and an animal or membran-
1Anatomy qfthe Boms endMuscles, p. 21.
*Edinburgh MedicalEssays, voL i. p. 95.
ous substance, which possesses considerable tenacity. To
the first of these ingredients the bones owe their solidity
and hardness. No inorganic matter, not even the metals,
has so great a cohesive power, with a given weight of ma­
terials, as the earthy bodies; and this is probably the rea­
son why the phosphate of lime has been selected as the sub­
stance employed to give the necessary"solidity and hardness
to bones. But these qualities, if carried to excess, would
be accompanied with brittleness. To guard against this
evil, the cohesion of the inorganic earth is tempered by the
interposition of an elastic organic material; this is the cel­
lular tissue, within the cells of which the bony matter is de­
posited, and which acts the part of a cement, binding them
more strongly together, and at the same time obviating the
excessive brittleness which a substance of more uniform
hardness would have possessed. Thus, by the admirable
blending of these two elements, two qualities which, in mas­
ses of homogenous and unorganized matter are scarcely
compatible with one another, are happily united.
(244.) The manner in which the cylindrical bones are
connected together is also highly deserving of attention.
There are, indeed, few parts of the mechanism of animals
more peculiarly fitted to excite our admiration than the
structure of the joints. Every provision seems to have been
made for facilitating their motion, and every precaution ta­
ken to enable them to act with safety. Their ends are en­
larged for the purpose of affording a broader surface of
junction, and for procuring greater firmness and security of
connexion. The rough and hard substance of bones would
have been particularly exposed to injury if they had been
allowed to grate upon one another without some interven­
ing smooth surface. In all thejoints, at the places where the
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 2 6 9
270 PHYSIOLOGY.
ends of the bone would have suffered from this cause,we find
them tipped with a white, smooth, and elastic cartilage. Dr.
Paley1has very aptly compared this expedient to the plat­
ing of a metallic instrument with a different metal. De­
tached portions of cartilage, are, as we have seen, frequent­
ly placed between the bones, which thus, instead of work­
ing upon each other, work upon the intermediate cartilages.
This is analogous to the contrivance practised by mechanics,
who interpose a loose ring where the friction of the joints
of any of their machines is great, and who particularly re­
sort to it where some strong and he? vy.work is to be done.
It is precisely under similar circumstances that the same
contrivance is employed in the human body ; and the ana­
logy is a striking evidence of that art and foresight which
are manifested in the plan of its conformation. The lubri­
cating quality of the synovia is also an exquisite provision
designed to diminish friction.
(245.) The ligaments which bind the ends of the bones
together, and restrain the direction of their motions, are ad­
mirably calculated to perform the offices assigned to them.
Like the bones, they unite qualities which are rarely met
with in conjunction. They have ail the properties we can
desire in a rope; namely, perfect flexibility, with great
power of resisting extension. It is hardly imaginable how
great a force is required to stretch, or rather to break asun­
der a ligament, for it will not yield in any sensible degree
until the force is increased so as at once to tear it to pieces.
Yet with all this toughness, it is so flexible as to oppose no
impediment to the suppleness of the joint. “ Every joint,”
says Dr. Paley, “ is strictly a mechanical instrument, and
•as manifestly contrived, and as accurately defined as any
1Natural Theology*
that can be produced out of a cabinet maker’s shop. Their
durability is no less astonishing. A limb shall swing upon
its hinge, or play in its socket, many hundred times in an
hour, for sixty years together, without diminution of its
agility.”1
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 271
7. The Lower 'Extremities.
(246.) The three portions into which the lower extremi­
ties are divided, namely the thighs leg, andfoot, being unit­
ed by joints, and moveable upon one another, are calcu­
lated to serve the double purpose of firm columns ofsupport
to the body while standing, and of facilitating and regulat­
ing its movements while advancing. It might, on a super­
ficial view of the subject, be supposed that, in standing in
the erect posture, the weight of the body would be more
firmly and effectually supported had the whole limb con­
sisted of a single straight column. But independently of
the greater strain to which such a structure would be ex­
posed, in consequence of the great length of bone required,
it would, in fact, have had less stability than it now pos­
sesses. A marble statue of a man resting merely on the feet
in a natural attitude, would be overthrown by a small im­
pulse ; and even in the living body, it is an infallible con­
sequence of the laws of mechanics, that if ever the perpen­
dicular line drawn from the centre of gravity happen to'pass
beyond the base of support, the body must inevitably fall in
spite of every muscular exertion that can be made. The
only way to prevent such an accident is to bring back the
centre of gravity nearer to a point above the centre of the
base before it has actually passed it ; and this we instinctive­
1Natural Theology.
2 7 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
ly do when we feel ourselves in danger of falling to one side,
by extending the arm horizontally on the opposite side.
(247.) But the limb being divided intojoints, these joints
would give way under the weight of the body, were they
not prevented from bending by the constant action of the
muscles. The continual muscular effort required in stand­
ing is nearly as great an expenditure of muscular power as
the act of walking. Soldiers on parade remaining in the
same attitude, experience even more fatigue than they
would suffer by a march during an equal time, because the
same muscles are constantly in actic n. The posture of a
soldier under arms, with his thighs and legs in the same
straight line, is one which requires a painful effort to pre­
serve. The moment the word of command is given him to
“ stand at ease,” the muscles on one side immediately relax,
the right knee is slightly bent, the tension of the ankle-joint
is relieved, and the body, sinking upon the left hip, has its
height diminished by above an inch and a-half. The weight
of the trunk is sustained more directly by the column of
bones of the left limb, which support that weight at a great­
er mechanical advantage than before; for the oblique direc­
tion of the neck of the thigh bone, with regard to the bones
of the pelvis, which is very great in the perfectly erect po­
sition, is now diminished. But the great source of reliefis
that a different set of muscles is called into play on every
change of posture; those which were before fatigued have
time to recruit their energies, and become prepared after­
wards to afford in their turn the same relief to others by re­
suming their exertions.
(248.) Strictly speaking, it is quite impossible for even
the strongest man to remain for even a very short interval
of time in precisely the same position* The fatigue of the
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 2 7 3
muscles which are in action soon become sensible, and re­
liefis instinctively given to them by varying the points of
support Thus we may observe that in standings the weight
of the body is naturally thrown alternately from one foot to
the other. The action of standing must be considered as
a series of perpetual, but obscure movements, by which the
centre of gravity is continually shifted from one part of the
base to the other; the tendency to fall in any one direc­
tion being perpetually counteracted by small and insensi­
ble movements in the contrary direction. Long habit has
rendered us unconscious of these exertions, and inattentive
to the sensations which prompt them. But a child, when
acquiring the art of walking, is sensible of all these diffi­
culties, and does not learn to walk but by reiterated lessons,
and by the experience of many falls. It is by a practice of
the same kind, and continued during a longer period, that
the rope-dancer learns to support himself on a narrower or
more unstable base than that which nature has provided.
This he effects,not bykeeping his centre ofgravity precisely
in the mathematical perpendicular to the rope, but by con­
tinually shifting it from side to side; never allowing it to fall
above a certain very minute distance, and immediately cor­
recting the vacillation by a movement which" gives it an
impulse in the contrary direction.
(249*) The flexures of the joints of the lower extremi­
ties, it may be observed, take place alternately in opposite
directions. Thus, the thigh is bent forwards upon the pel­
vis ; the leg is bent backwards upon the thigh; and the
foot, again, is bent forwards upon the leg. This arrangement
is obviously the one best adapted to convenience, both as
regards the folding the partswhen bent, and the commodious
disposition of the muscles, which perform the opposite mo­
2 7 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
tions of flexion and extension. As the weight of the body
occasions the flexion of the joints, so it is that flexion which
the muscles are chiefly required to counteract; and this is
the duty of the extensor muscles. We accordingly find,
that in each joint, the latter are much larger, and more pow­
erful than the flexors. They are enabled also to act with
greater mechanical advantage, in consequence of their be­
ing inserted into projecting processes of the bones, evidently
provided with this express intention. This is the purpose
of the trochanter of the thigh bone, and the projecting bone
ofthe heel. The same object is accomplished, in a still more
artificial manner, in the knee-joint, by an additional bone,
the patella, or knee-pan, into which the great extensor mus­
cles situated in the fore part of the thigh are inserted, and
which renders their action much more efficient, both by di­
minishing its obliquity, and by removing it farther from the
centre of rotation. It acts, therefore, as a pulley, which is
a species of lever; and it is so contrived, that while the
knee is bent, and the muscles at rest, as when we are sit­
ting, this bone sinks down, concealed in a hollow of the
knee. When the extensor muscles begin to act, they draw
out the patella from this hollow; and in proportion as they
contract, and their strength diminishes, the patella gradu­
ally rising, gives greater mechanical advantage to their ac­
tion, which is greatest of all when, by their complete con­
traction, their power is most expended.
(250.) The structure of the feet is also admirably con­
trived, as a secure basis for the support of the whole super­
incumbent weight of the body, and of all the additional
burdens which the body may be made to sustain. The ar­
rangement of the bones is in as strict conformity to the
principles of the arch as those of the skull* The bones
of the tarsus constitute what may be called a double arch;
that is, an arch in two different planes, at right angles
to one another. There is, in the first place, one great
longitudinal arch, springing from the point of the heel to
the ball of the great toe : and there is, in the second
place, a transverse arch formed among the tarsal bones
themselves, one within another. Near the heel this arch is
composed of the astragulus, os calcis, and naviculare ; and
farther on, by the cuneiform or wedge-like bones, the name
of which expresses their office, analogous to that of the
stones at the crown of an arch of masonry. The elasticity,
as well as security, resulting from all these arches, imparts
that ease and spring so remarkable in the step, and obvi­
ates the injurious jar that would be otherwise inevitably
communicated to the body by leaps, by falls, or other acci­
dents.
(251.) In walking, the first action consists in fixing one
foot firmly on the ground, by transferring to it the whole
weight of the body ; the other foot being then at liberty to
move, is with the leg carried forwards. This projection of
the limb is necessarily attended with a corresponding ad­
vance of the centre of gravity, which proceeds to move for­
wards till it arrives beyond the basis of the foot on which
the body is resting. Whenever this happens, the body, be­
ing unsupported, begins to fall, and would continue to fall,
were not the other foot in advance, and ready to receive it,
and stop its further descent This is the reason why we
experience so disagreeable a jar, if in walking inattentively,
the foot we had advanced happens to arrive at a lower level
on the ground than had been expected; as when, for in*
stance, we meet with a descending step for which we were
not prepared. The body on these occasions, falling through
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 2 7 5
2 7 6 PHYSIOLOGY.
greater space than usual, acquires a certain velocity of de­
scent, and this unusual velocity being suddenly checked,
communicates a shock to the whole system.
(252.) While the weight of the body is thus transferred
alternately from one foot to the other, the centre of gravity
of the body, while it is continually carried forwards, is at
the same time alternately raised and lowered, so as to de­
scribe at each step a small arch; and its whole motion may
be represented by a waving line, having lateral as well ab
longitudinal inflexions, and composed of a succession of
short curves. In taking long steps, \ e are obliged to raise
the centre of gravity through a longer arch, and therefore
to a greater height. This is consequently more fatiguing
than a shorter step. If, however, we go into the contrary
extreme, and take too short steps, the advantage obtained
in lessening the height of the arches described by the cen­
tre of gravity, is more than compensated by the greater
quickness required in the motions necessary for keeping up
the same rate of walking.
(253.) The lateral undulation of the body during walk­
ing is never performed with precise equality on both sides;
and the amount of the accumulated deviations would be
considerable, did we not avail ourselves of the assistance of
the sense of sight in counteracting it. This will appear
from the well-known fact, that it is impossible for a person
who is blindfolded to continue to walk in a straight line for
any considerable distance. Even on a perfectly level plain,
we unavoidably incline to the right or to the left; and the
want of consciousness that we are doing so, prevents us from
rectifying the error; so that while we imagine we have un-
dcviatingly pursued a straight course, we may perhaps, when
the bandage is removed from our eyes, find ourselves near
the very spot from whence we had commenced our circum-
ambulatory excursion.
8. The Upper Extrem ities.
(254.) The upper extremity, though exempt from the
office of supporting any part of the weight of the trunk, and
intended for a variety of very different uses, presents us with
exactly the same number of divisions as the lower extremi­
ties ; excepting that in the skeleton, if we compare the sca­
pula to the bones of the pelvis, there is an additional bone
provided in the clavicle, or collar bone, by means of which
the bones of the arm are articulated with those of the trunk.
The extremity of the clavicle, indeed, by which it joins the
sternum, is the pivot on which all the great motions of the
arm are performed. The interposition of the scapula is
evidently for the purpose of giving a more extended surface
for the attachment of the strong muscles destined to act
upon the arm and upper part of the trunk, and which also
lend their aid in performing the movements necessary for
respiration. It also contributes its share in the defence of
the back part of the chest.
(255.) The joint of the shoulder is of the ball and socket
kind, and admits, therefore, of the greatest latitude of mo­
tion. That of the elbow is a simple hinge-joint, and re­
stricted consequently to mere flexion and extension* A ro­
tatory motion was here unnecessary; for the free rolling of
the arm at the shoulder answers every purpose that can be
desired, and the elbow-joint is rendered more secure by this
limitation of its motion; for it will always be found, that
whenever a hinge-joint is sufficient for the purposes requir­
ed, it is employed in preference to that of the ball and
socket, which, from its very extensive range ofmotion, must
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 2 7 7
2 7 8 PHTSIOLOGT.
necessarily be looser in its structure, and more liable to dis­
location.
(256.) In the wrist, which is the great centre of all the
motions of the hand, a construction was called for which
might allow of the utmost latitude of motion. The follow­
ing were the three kinds of movement required; first,
simple flexion and extension; secondly, lateral flexions;
and, thirdly, twisting, or rotation of the hand, as when it is
employed in’turning a screw. If all these different motions
had been entrusted to a simple ball and socket joint, they
could not have been well performed without great strains
and hazard of dislocation. This danger is admirably obviat­
ed by distributing the motions among several articulations.
No part of the bony system is more complex than the wrist,
which consists of eight small bones crowded into a very nar­
row space, and lashed together by many strong ligaments,
that form bands crossing one another in every possible di­
rection. While they are together fitted to the bones of the
fore-arm in the manner of a hinge-joint, their mutual con­
nexions allow at the same time ofconsiderable lateral flexion.
(257.) But still the rotatoryor twisting motion ofthe hand,
which is perhaps the most useful of all, is not provided for
by this mechanism. For the accomplishment of this object
there is employed a contrivance to which the rest ofthe sys­
tem presents nothing similar. The wrist is connected not
so much with the principal bone of the fore-arm, as with a
subsidiary bone of equal length with it, and placed in a pa­
rallel position, termed the radius ,*and its peculiar mode of
junction is such as to enable it to describe round the former
a complete semicircle. In these rolling motions the radius
carries along with it the hand, which thus turns in perfect
security; for it is difficult to conceive how a force could well
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC* 2 7 9
be applied, so as to separate bones having so long a lever of
resistance. Thus, while the wrist is exempt from the weak­
ness incident to circular joints, it possesses all the properties
which we find in the most moveable.
(258.) The manner in which the fingers are disposed in
the hand, like radii from a common centre, is such as to al­
low them very free play, and to extend their sphere of ac­
tion. But the chief perfection of the hand, as a mechani­
cal instrument of prehension, consists in the structure of the
thumb,which is furnishedwith muscles ofso great a strength,
compared with those of the fingers, as to enable it to oppose
and balance their united power. Hence the hand is capable
of grasping a spherical body, and of keeping firm hold of a
variety of objects, which it would otherwise have required
die concurrence of both hands to retain.
(259.) The passage of the tendons, by which the fingers
are bent, is particularly deserving of notice, and has often
been appealed to as a signal instance of express contrivance.
As die uses of the hand require the bending of each joint
of the fingers independently of the others, it was necessary
that separate muscles and separate tendons should be pro­
vided for each. The muscles are most advantageously
placed high up in the arm, and convenience requires that
those muscles which bend the last joints should lie beneath
those that bend the middle joints. Had the tendons pro­
ceeding from the latter been directly inserted into the mid­
die of the second bone of the finger, they would have been
exactly in the way of the tendons which are underneath,
and which are proceeding to a more distant insertion. They
are therefore split into two branches, each being inserted
into the side of the bone; and the lower tendon is thus al­
lowed to pa$8 on securely between them. This structure
2 8 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
has also this further advantage, that it procures a more ready
flexion of the last joint than of the other joints; a provision,
the purpose of which is manifest, since it tends effectually
to prevent the escape of the object we wish to lay hold of.
“ There is nothing," says Dr. Paley, “ in a silk or cotton
mill, in the belts, straps, or ropes, by which motion is com­
municated from one part of the machine to the other, that
is more artificial, or more evidently so than this perforation."
“ Let a person observe his own hand while he is writing,
the number of muscles that are brought to bear upon the
pen, how the joint and adjusted operation of several tendons
is concerned in every stroke, yet tint five hundred such
strokes are drawn in a minute. Not a letter can be turned
without two or three tendinous contractions, definite both as
to the choice of the tendon, and as to the space through
which it moves. Yet how correctly does the work proceed;
how faithful have the muscles been to their duty; how true
to the order which endeavour or habit has inculcated. Let
us watch the hand while playing upon a musical instrument.
All the changes produced, though extremely rapid, are ex­
actly measured, even when most minute; and display on
the part of the muscles an obedience ofaction alike wonder­
ful for its quickness and its correctness."
(260.) To specify all the instances of express contrivance
in the mechanical conformation of the hand would fill a vo-
lume. As an organ of touch it is admirably formed. No
instrument is better adapted to the practice of the mecha­
nical arts; none could be better fitted for examining the pro­
perties ofbodies, and the laws ofthe material world, ofwhich
none of the other senses, unassisted by that of touch, could
impart to us any accurate knowledge. So great are the ad­
vantages which the possession of this organ has conferred
FUNCTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS FABRIC. 281
upon the human *ace, that many philosophers, prone to pa­
radox, have ascribed to this circumstance alone the whole
of the intellectual superiority which he enjoys over the
brute creation.
2 8 2 FHTSIOLOGY•
C H A P T E R V I.
ASSIMILATION.
SECT. I.— CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION OF ORGANIZED
MATTER.
1. Necessity o f Alim ent.
(251.) A constant supply of nutritive matter is necessary
for the continuance of life, a necessity arising from a variety
of causes. In the first place, the substance of which the
body is formed is exposed to various sources of waste and
dissipation, and is continually verging to a state in which
the organs become unfit for the performance of their func­
tions. The chemical affinities by which the elements of or­
ganized substances are retained in that peculiar mode of
combination which constitutes their living state, are, as we
shall presently see, very nicely balanced, and would be un­
able to preserve them in that condition were not some means
provided for counteracting their natural tendency to decom­
position. By the active exercise of their respective func­
tions all the organs,butmore especially themuscular andner­
vous systems, experience a deterioration of their component
parts, and suffer decay and waste. Fresh materials are re­
quired for supplying this continual expenditure. A certain
degree of temperature must also be kept up, otherwise the
ASSIMILATION. 2 8 3
muscles would lose their faculty of contracting, and the
nerves their power of conveying impressions to andfrom the
sensorium. Materials are therefore necessary to be employ­
ed as fuel for keeping up the vital warmth. The daily con­
sumption of combustible materials, apparently used for this
purpose in the animal economy, is, we shall afterwards find,
very large, and forms a considerable proportion of the food
received into the body.
(2 6 2 .) All that we have now said refers to the body in
its adult or mature state, when it has attained its full di­
mensions, and when all that is required is its preservation
in that state. But during all that period of life when the
body is increasing in its size, it is evident that its growth
can only take place in consequence of the addition of new
particles to those already composing the substance of the
body; and some parts, such as the hair and nails, continue
to grow even to the latest period of life. At every age
some part is liable to be injured or destroyed, and a pro­
vision is in most cases made for the reparation of that which
has been injured, or even for the replacement of that which
had been destroyed. These objects can be effected only
by the supplyofnew materials derived from external sources.
The changes effected by the long series of assimilatory
processes being essentially chemical, it becomes necessary
to institute a particular inquiry into the chemical constitu­
tion of organized substances in their successive stages of
mutation, from the most simple to the more complex con­
ditions in which they are found to exist in the composition
of an animal body.
2 . Chemical conditions o f organized matter•
, (263.) The parts, which by their assemblage constitute
2 S 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
an organized body, when compared with unorganized mat*
ter, exhibit in their chemical, as well as in their mechani­
cal characters, the most well marked and striking contrast.
Complexity, variety, and difficulty of analysis, are the lead­
ing features as much in the former, as in the latter ofthese
subjects of consideration. Combinations equally artificial,
equally the result of design, and of refined elaboration, are
exhibited both in the mechanism of organic structures, and
also in the chemical constitution of organic substances.
Compared with the latter, all the bodies which are present­
ed to us in the mineral kingdom, are extremely simple ;
and their study presents no difficult es of an insurmount­
able nature. The number of primary or elementary sub­
stances, or of those at least which we regard as simple, is, in­
deed, greater in the mineralkingdom,than thatofthose which
enter into the composition of animal or vegetable bodies;
but they are for the most part found united in binary com­
binations, or are, at least, easily resolvable into a small
number of such binary compounds. In the products of
animal or vegetable systems, we find a less variety of ulti­
mate principles; but this is more than compensated by
the infinitely greater diversity of modes in which they are
combined. The same elements, instead of forming with
each other mere binary combinations, generally exist in
more complicated states of union; there, four, five, or even
a greater number of constituent substances, having their
affinities nicely balanced, and harmonized into one individ­
ual combination.
(264.) From this diversity in the mode of union, there
arise remarkable,differences in the properties of different
organized products, formed from the same ultimate princi­
ples : nor can we, as in bodies belonging to the mineral
ASSIMILATION. 2 8 5
kingdom, with an exact knowledge of the nature and pro­
portions of the component substances, proceed, by any arti­
ficial arrangement, to the actual formation ofthe compounds
themselves* No approach has yet been made by human
ingenuity, to the imitation of nature in these refined oper­
ations of vitality.
(265.) Another consequence resulting from this differ­
ence in constitution between organized products and the
inorganic bodies of the mineral kingdom, is that the affini­
ties by which the elements of the former class of bodies are
held in union, being nicely balanced, are more subject to
change. The equipoise is easily disturbed and subverted.
The principles have a constant tendency to react on each
other, so as to give rise to a new order of combinations ;
which readily take place by slight alterations of circum­
stances. All organic products are susceptible of decompo­
sition by heat alone; they are readily acted upon by vari­
ous agents, as water or atmospheric air; and they are gene­
rally liable to spontaneous changes, to fermentation, and
putrefaction. *
(267.) Such, then, are the distinguishing features of the
chemical properties belonging to the products of organiza­
tion ; simplicity as to the number of ultimate elements;
complication in the mode and order of combination ; un­
steadiness in the balance ofaffinities retaining them in union,
and consequent proneness to decomposition, and impracti­
cability of their artificial formation by a reunion of their
principles.
(268.) Whilst the products of the animal kingdom parti­
cipate with vegetable bodies in these common characters,
which distinguish them from inorganic materials, they differ
from the former in several subordinate circumstances of
2 8 6 PHYSIOLOGY*
chemical relation* The constituent principles of animal
substances are somewhat more numerous, and their affini­
ties more nicely adjusted, and more easily disturbed. Their
chemical constitution is the result of still more delicate pro­
cesses, and of a more elaborate organization. The three
great component elements of all vegetable bodies, are oxy­
gen, hydrogen, and carbon; but animal substances gene­
rally contain, besides these, a considerable proportion of a
fourth element, namely nitrogen, the presence of which
has a considerable influence on the changes they undergo
when subjected to the operation of foreign agents, or left
to the spontaneous operation of internal causes of decompo­
sition. Phosphorus and sulphur must also be enumerated
among the component parts of the greater number of ani­
mal substances; and the affinities exerted by these elements
also tend to modify the results produced by these various
causes. The greater the number of elementary ingredi­
ents present in any assemblage, the greater will be the ten­
dency to form binary or ternary combinations; and the
more will the affinities be divided between different ele­
ments, and pass easily from one mode of arrangement into
another. Hence the greater susceptibility to decomposi­
tion which characterises animal products, when compared
with vegetable.
(269-) In addition to the substances already mention­
ed, we must also reckon among the constituents of animal
substances, lime, potash, soda, and iron ; but these exist
only in small quantities.
(270.) Some of the most important qualities distinguish­
ing animal substances are owing, in particular, to the pre­
dominance ofnitrogen in their composition. This substance
is disengaged from them in large quantities by the action of
ASSIMILATION. 2 8 7
the nitric acid. This acid, indeed, itselfcontains nitrogen ;
but it has been ascertained, that in producing this effect,
the acid does not undergo any decomposition ; so that the
nitrogen is furnished not by the acid, but entirely by the
substance subjected to its action. Ammonia is evolved
both during the putrefaction of animal substances, and also
by the application of a heat sufficient for their decomposi­
tion ; and this ammonia results from the combination of the
nitrogen with hydrogen during these processes. Cyano-
gen, or prussic acid, is also a frequent product of these
operations; andis known to consist chieflyof nitrogen. Un­
der these circumstances, also, the phosphorus enters into
new combinations, particularly with the hydrogen and azote,
and forms compound gases, which are extricated both dur­
ing the putrefaction and destructive distillation of animal
substances. By becoming acidified by its union with oxy­
gen, it enters into combination with earths, alkalies, and
oxide of iron, and forms a variety of neutral salts. The
same observations also apply to the sulphur which is found
in certain quantities in several animal substances.
(271.) Another general difference in the chemical com­
position of animal and of vegetable substances, is that the
former contain a smaller proportion of carbon, and a greater
proportion of hydrogen than the latter. Carbon may be
regarded as the base of vegetable matter, to which oxygen
and hydrogen are attached; while hydrogen appears to be
the principal component part of animal matter, and is there
combined with nitrogen, oxygen, carbon, and phosphorus.
Hence during the decomposition of animal substances by
heat, the chief products are ammonia and empyreumatic
oil, in both of which hydrogen is a principal constituent.
In general animal matters contain less oxygen tW i vegeta­
2 8 8 PHYSIOLOGY.
ble, and hence afford less acid by their decomposition; and
the coal which remains differs from vegetable charcoal in
being much less combustible.
3. Proximate Anim al Principles,
(272.) Inthenumerousanddiversifiedproductsoftheanimal
kingdom, we may trace different degrees of complication in
the composition of their elements. Several substances pre­
sent the appearance of greater simplicity, and appear to re­
sult from the more direct union of a few elements, and to
preserve among various shades of modification the same ge­
neral properties, and the same distinctive characters. The
more compound products often admit of an intermediate
analysis into these comparatively simpler constituents, which
are distinguishable from each other by a certain uniformity
of character, and which we may presume are obtained in
the same state as that in which they existed in the compound
subjected to the analysis. These form what are termed the
intermediate or proximate principles o f animal bodies, in
contradistinction to the elementaryprinciples^ which are the
resultofthe ultimate analysis ofthe substance. These proxi­
mate principles may be considered as forming by their mix­
ture, or combination, all the varieties of animal matter; and
they are therefore the more immediate object of attention
to the chemist in his analysis of animal substances.
(273.) The only method resorted to by the earlier che­
mists, in the infancy of science, for ascertaining the compo­
sition of animal substances, was that of subjecting them to
the process of distillation at a high temperature, by which
their proximate principles were entirely destroyed, and ei­
ther converted into new compounds, or resolved into their
ultimate elements. Many of these being gaseous, were suf­
ASSIMILATION. 2 89
fered to escape, and were totally disregarded. Scarcely any
light could be thrown upon the composition of animal bodies
by such an imperfect mode of examination. Successive im­
provements were afterwards introduced into this branch of
chemical research, consisting chiefly in the application of
various re-agents, from which instructive results were de­
rived.
(274.) The modern art of animal analysis may be consi­
dered as comprising three different kinds of operations,
which, however, admit of being variously combined. The
first consists in observing the spontaneous changes result­
ing from various natural circumstances in which the sub­
stances may be placed; the second depends on the applica­
tion of chemical agents, employed either as tests to indicate
the existence of particular elements or proximate principles,
or as menstrua, which, by their specific affinities, may sepa­
rate the elements or primary compounds from each other;
while the third set of operations, reverting to the original
plan of destructive analysis, effects the complete decompo­
sition of the substance, but carefully collects all the volatile
and gaseous matter, and deduces an accurate estimate of the
nature and proportions of the ultimate elements. We ob­
tain, for example, a certain quantity of water, carbonic acid,
and ammonia; and knowing the proportions of oxygen, hy­
drogen, and carbon, which they respectively contain, we are
able to ascertain the precise amount and relative proportion
of the elements which entered into the constitution of the
substance analysed.
(275.) The general result ofthe investigations which have
been conducted by the last of these methods is, that the
simple bodies of which animal substances consist ace com­
prised in the following list:
2 9 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
1 . Oxygen 8 . Soda
2. Nitrogen 9 * Potass
3. Carbon 1 0 . Chlorine
4, Hydrogen 1 1 . Magnesia
5 . Lime 1 2 . Iron
6 . Phosphorus 13. Silica
7. Sulphur 14. Manganese.
(276.) Of these, the first six may be considered as the
principal elementary ingredients ofanimal substances. Mag­
nesia and silica are found only in very minute quantities,
and may therefore be in a great measure considered as fo­
reign bodies. The soft parts of the body are composed al­
most entirely of oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, and hydrogen ;
while lime and phosphorus form the basis ofthe hard parts.
(277.) The proximate principles most generally met with
in animal substances are,
1 . Gelatin 3. Fibrin
2 . Albumen 4. Mucus.
(2 7 8 .) To these have been added some others, such as
urea, picromel, stearin, elain, osmazome, and several sac­
charine*and acid principles, which being more limited m
their extent, will iall more properly under consideration in
the review we shall give of the substances which chiefly con­
tain them. We shall first then present an account of the
properties of the four essential principles above enumerated.
4. Gelatin.
(279.) Gelatin may be extracted by long continued boil­
ing in water from almost all the hard and solid parts of the
body, such as the skin, membranes, ligaments, cartilages,
and even the bones themselves. By the slow evaporation
of the water which thus holds it in solution, the gelatin may
ASSIMILATION 291
be obtained in a state of purity, when it appears as a hard,
brittle, and semi-transparent substance, which breaks with
a glassy fracture. It varies somewhat in its appearance, ac­
cording to the source from which it has been obtained. Glue
may be taken as an example of dried gelatin, in which, how­
ever, a few impurities are contained. Isinglass may be con­
sidered, on the whole, as the purest form under which gela­
tin is met with, and it exhibits most completely the cha­
racteristic properties of that proximate animal constituent.
, (280.) One of the most striking characteristics of gelatin
is the property it exclusively possesses, when united to a
quantity ofwater, of dissolving slowly, but completely, form­
ing a solution of an opaline colour, which is perfectly fluid
when warm, but becomes concrete on cooling, assuming the
tremulous appearance so well known as belonging to jelly.
In this state it readily again becomes liquid, by the applica­
tion of a gentle heat, and may, by the continuance of that
beat, be brought back to the state of dryness. These alter­
nate solutions and desiccations may be repeated for any num­
ber of times, without any change being produced in the che­
mical constitution of the gelatin. The proportion in which
gelatin forms a solution capable of concreting by cooling,
has been ascertained by Dr. Bostock in the following man­
ner. One part of dry gelatin to 1 0 0 parts of water gave a
solution which completely stiffened by cooling. But when
the proportion of water was 150 parts to one of gelatin, a
compound was produced, which though evidently gelati­
nous, did not assume the concrete form.
(281.) Solid gelatin undergoes no change if it be kept
perfectly dry; but when united with water, either in the
form of solution or ofjelly, it very soonbecomes putrid; an
2 9 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
acid first makes its appearance, a fetid odour arises, and am­
monia is afterwards formed.
(282.) The most ready and convenient test of the pre­
sence of gelatin in any fluid, is a solution of tannin; the
addition of which immediately occasions, by the combina­
tion of these two principles, a copious precipitate, which as­
sumes a solid form. This precipitate collects into an elas­
tic adhesive mass, which soon dries in the open air, and
forms a brittle resinous-like substance, very similar in ap­
pearance to over-tanned leather. It is perfectly insoluble
in water, and is not susceptible of putrefaction. It is this
combination of tannin with gelatin that constitutes the pre­
servative part of tanned leather, and which enables it to re­
sist the transmission of moisture. The solutions of tannin
most conveniently applicable as tests of gelatin, may be pre­
pared by an infusion of an ounce of gall-nuts in a pint ofwa­
ter ; or, as Dr. Bostock has proposed, the extract of rhata-
nia, digested in hot water, and filtered after it becomes cold.
A considerable precipitate is produced by these infusions,
when the proportion of gelatin to the water is so small as to
compose only the five thousandth port ofthe solution. The
precipitate afforded by tannin is not, however, to be consid­
ered as a decisive test of the presence of gelatin; for, as we
shall presently find, it also occurs in consequence of the
presence of albumen. In order to prevent any confusion
from this cause, it will be necessary to have recourse also
to another test, that of corrosive sublimate, which is found
to precipitate albumen, but not gelatin. If, therefore, by
adding corrosive sublimate, we obtain no precipitate, we
may be certain of the presence of albumen*
, (283.) Gelatin is insoluble in alcohol, but when already
ASSIMILATION. 2 9 3
in solution in water, it is not precipitated by that fluid
Acids dissolve it with great facility, even when much dilu­
ted, especially when aided by heat. The nitric acid effects
its decomposition, during which nitrogen, and then nitrous
gas,aredisengagedin considerable quantities; and oxalic and
malic acids are evolved, and may be obtained from the re­
siduum. Sulphuric acid, with the assistance of heat, partly
converts it into a substance resembling sugar. Chlorine
combines with gelatin, forming a white substance, which as­
sumes the form of filaments. „
The pure liquid alkalies dissolve gelatin very readily.
The solution is a brown viscid substance, which possesses
none of the properties of soap, and is not precipitated by
acids. This property of remaining dissolved after acids are
added to the alkaline solution, distinguishes gelatin from al­
bumen, fibrin, and other animal products, and is therefore
a valuable mode of discriminating its presence, and of se­
parating it from them in analysis.
(284.) Gelatin is precipitated by several of the metallic
salts and oxides, but not so unequivocally as to afford satis­
factory tests of its presence. Like all the other constitu­
ents of animal bodies, gelatin, while it preserves its essen­
tial properties, is susceptible of many shades of variation,
and appears therefore under a diversity of forms, such as
glue, size, isinglass, &c; but although many valuable re­
marks on this subject are contained in Mr. Hatchett’s 0&-
servations on the Component Parts of Anifnal Membrane^
published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1800, we are
still very much in the dark as to the circumstances which
occasion the differences in the several kindsofanimal gelatin.
294 PHYSIOLOGY.
5. Albumen.
(285.) The proximate principle which, from its compo­
sing the greater part of the white of the egg has been term­
ed albumen, is most abundantly met with in almost all the
parts ofanimals, whether solid or fluid. It is the chiefbasis
of several of the more solid textures of the body, such as
the membranous andfibrous structures, and the parenchyma­
tous substance of the glands and viscera; and it also forms
a large proportion of the blood and of the secreted fluids.
In the white of the egg, album* n exists in a state of so­
lution in water, and combined with a small quantity ofsoda.
By agitation with a still larger quantity of water, the two
fluids unite, and form a viscid liquid, the component parts
of which do not separate by standing.
(286.) The characteristic property of albumen is its ca­
pability of coagulating, or passing from a liquid to a solid
form, by the action of heat, of acids, and of alcohol, and
several metallic salts and oxides. This change takes place
in undiluted albumen,at a temperature ofabout 1 G
0 ° of Fah­
renheit. After it has been once coagulated, albumen is no
longer soluble in water, unless by long boiling, aided by
pressure. By a long continued gentle heat, coagulated al­
bumen gradually has its moisture dissipated, and the solid
matter, amounting to about one-fifth of the original weight,
is left behind, in the form of a hard brittle transparent sub­
stance.
(287.) If the albumen be much diluted, it appears to be
incapable of coagulation by the usual means; but still it was
found by Dr. Bostock, that a solution containing only one
thousandth of its weight of albumen, although not properly
coagulated, was rendered perceptibly opaque by a boiling
ASSIMILATION. 2 95
temperature; so that heat may be considered, for all prac­
tical purposes, as a sufficiently accurate test of its presence
in any fluid. During coagulation there is no absorption of
oxygen; nor is any gas extricated: and hence there ap­
pears to be no reaction of the principles of the albumen upon
each other. The nature of the change which takes place
during this transition from the fluid to the solid form, is by
no means well ascertained. Dr. Thomson supposed the flu­
idity of albumen to depend on the presence of alkaline mat­
ter ; and its coagulation to the removal or neutralization of
this alkali; and some experiments which were devised by
Mr. Brande tend strongly to support this theory. He found
that a rapid and abundant coagulation took place in the
white of an egg subjected to the action of a galvanic bat­
tery, around the negative pole, where the alkali must have
been separated; while a thin film only collected round the
positive pole. He discovered also, by these experiments,
that galvanic electricity may be applied successively to the
detection ofvery minute quantities ofalbumen, which would
not be rendered sensible by any other test.
(288.) Another agent which immediately effects the co­
agulation of albumen, unless it be previously much diluted,
is alcohol. Ether also produces the same effect.
(289.) Acids in general occasion the coagulation ofalbu­
men 5 but severalofthemafterwards redissolvethe coagulum
if assisted by heat. This is at least the case with the three
mineralacids. The coagulum formedby acidsalways retains
in combination a portion of the acid which has been em­
ployed. That produced by nitric acid is the least soluble;
and hence nitric acid occasions a precipitate from solutions
of albumen, which are so dilute asnot to be affectedby other
acids. Thenard remarks that the coagulum produced by
296 PHYSIOLOGY.
acids, is re-dissolved by pure alkalies, and even by ammo­
nia, which does not dissolve albumen that has been coagu­
lated by heat. Nitric acid, when concentrated, decomposes
albumen,extricatingfromitazoticgas, andduringits solution,
nitrous gas. Oxalic and malic acids are formed, and a thick
oily matter, soluble in alcohol, appears on the surface. On
the other hand, when coagulated albumen is subjected to
the action of dilute nitric acid, it is after some time con­
verted into a substance having the properties of gelatin.
For this highly curious fact we are indebted to Mr. Hatch­
ett.1 Alum, probably in consequer ?e of its excess of acid,
coagulates albumen, provided the solution be not very di­
lute. One part of albumen in five hundred of water is ren­
dered slightly turbid by a solution of alum, but without any
formation of a precipitate.
(290.) The triple prussiate or ferrocyanate of potass is,
according to Dr. Henry, an extremely delicate test of the
presence ofalbumen, and may be used to discover it in fluids
to which other tests are inapplicable. To enable it, how­
ever, to produce a precipitate, a very slight excess of ace­
tic acid should be previously added, either to the test, or to
the liquid suspected to contain albumen.
(291.) Another delicate test of the presence of albumen
is a solution of corrosive sublimate; and it is the more va­
luable, inasmuch as it has no effect on solutions either of ge­
latin or of mucus. Dr. Bostock found that a single drop of
a solution ofcorrosive sublimate added to a liquor containing
one-thousandth of its weight of albumen, renders it visibly
milky, and at the end of some hours a flocculent precipitate*
* See his paperalready quoted fromthe Phikxophical Tranwctums
for 1600.
ASSIMILATION, 297
falls to the bottom of the vessel. The same re-agent pro­
duces a sensible effect on a liquid, containing only half that
quantity, or one two-hundredth of albumen.
(292.) Many other metallic salts, throw down a preci­
pitate from solutions of albumen, as the acetate of lead, the
nitro-muriate of tin, the nitrate of silver, and the nitro-mu-
riate of gold; but as they produce a similar effect on other
species of animal matter, they are scarcely deserving of con­
fidence as tests of any one in particular. A solution of tan­
nin, which, when added to albumen, occasions, after some
time, a precipitate, may sometimes afford useful indications
in analytical inquiries, for it may be distinguished from that
produced from gelatin by its want of density and cohesion.
(293.) Albumen is readily dissolved by the pure liquidal­
kalies, which disengage ammonia from it, and form with the
residue a saponaceous compound. This soap, when dissolv­
ed in water, is precipitated by acetic or muriatic acids.
6. Fibrin.
(294.) The proximate animal principle, known by the
name offibrin, or animal gelatin, exists in large quantity in
the blood, and forms the basis of the muscular flesh of ani­
mals. When properly prepared, and freed from the admix­
ture of extraneous matter, it presents a substance of a white
colour, destitute of taste or smell, of a fibrous texture, and
of a soft and elastic consistence. When dried it is brittle,
and has a certain degree of transparency ; it undergoes no
change from the action of either air or water.
(295.) When exposed to heat, it contracts very conside­
rably, and exhibits movements like horn, exhaling at the
same time the smell of burned feathers. When subjected
to great heat, it yields the usual animal products of water,
2 9 8 PHYSIOLOGY*
oil, ammonia, carbonic acid, and carburetted hydrogen, with
a large carbonaceous residuum* This charcoal is very diffi­
cult to incinerate, owing to the presence of phosphoric salts*
which are fused by the heat employed for that purpose, and
form a glassy coat on the surface. A considerable quantity
of carbonate of lime is found in the residual ashes.
(296.) The acids exert a considerable action upon fibrin.
Concentrated acetic acid renders it soft and transparent;
and the whole mass is converted by heat into a tremulous
jelly. By the addition of water, and the continued applica­
tion of heat, a complete solution is- effected, attended witJi
the evolution of nitrogen. Fibrin combines with muriatic
acid in two proportions; the one gives a neutral compound
soluble in water; the other, containing an excess of acid, is
insoluble, but becomes soluble by the action of pure water.
Concentrated sulphuric acid decomposes and carbonizes
fibrin. Diluted with six times its weight of water, this acid
acquires a red colour by being digested with fibrin, but
scarcely dissolves any sensible portion; but part of the acid
is absorbed by the remaining mass, which becomes a com­
pound of fibrin and an excess of sulphuric acid. Water de­
prives it of this excess, and a neutral combination is obtain­
ed, which is soluble in water, and has the same characters
as neutral muriate of fibrin. The action of nitric acid upon
fibrin is much diversified, according to its dilution or state
of concentration. When the acid is diluted with a large
quantity of water, a great abundance of nitrogen gas is dis­
engaged. This gas is entirely derived from the fibrin, and
not from the acid, which, as Berthollet ascertained, has suf­
fered no decomposition during the process. The residuum,
in this case, is principally oxalic acid, with a small quantity
of malic and acetic acids, and a portion of fatty matter.
ASSIMILATION. 2 9 9
When the nitric acid is undiluted, on the other hand, it un­
dergoes decomposition, and nitrous gas, mixed with nitro­
gen gas, is disengaged. When fibrin is digested for twenty-
four hours in nitric acid of the specific gravity 1.25, it is
converted into a pulverulent mass, of a pale citron colour,
which is deposited at the bottom of the liquid. By washing
it in water, the excess of acid is carried off, and the colour
gradually becomes of a deep orange. Fourcroy and Vau-
quelin considered this yellow matter to be a peculiar acid,
which they distinguished by the name of the yellow acid*
But Berzelius has shewn that it is merely fibrin combined
with nitric and malic acids. When the action of nitric acid
on fibrin is very slow, it is gradually converted into a state
somewhat analogous to gelatin.
(297.) Fibrin, when subjected to the action of caustic al­
kali, increases in bulk, becomes transparent and gelatinous,
and at length is entirely dissolved, forming a yellowish green
solution. From this solution it is precipitated both by acids
and alcohol, but seems to have undergone some change ;
for it is not, as before, soluble in acetic acid. Fourcroy had
asserted, that the compound of fibrin and alkali resembles
soap; but it does not, in fact, appear to have any analogy
with saponaceous bodies.
(298.) Alcohol of the specific gravity of 0.81, converts
fibrin into a kind of adipocirous matter, which is soluble in
alcohol, and precipitated by the addition of water. It has
a strong and unpleasant odour. The alcoholic solutionleaves,
on evaporation, a fatty residue, which did not pre-exist in
the fibrin, but which, like the original substance, is soluble
in acetic acid. By the action of ether, fibrin is converted
into the same kind of adipocire, but which has a more often*
sive odour, and is in larger quantity.
300 PHYSIOLOGY•
(299.) After the account we have given ofthe three'proxi-
mate principles which enter so largely into the composition
of animal matter, namely, gelatin, albumen, and fibrin, it will
be useful to take a comparative view of the analogies they
present, and of the differences by which they are distin­
guished, both in their properties and composition. They are
apparently composed of the same ultimate elements, com­
bined in proportions which are not widely different. They
admit accordingly of mutual conversion into one another,
by processes which produce a slight alteration in the propor­
tion of their constituents. By the . ction of the nitric acid
fibrin is converted into a kind of gelatin, and a similar change
has been effected on albumen by the same re-agent. All
these substances are presented both in the liquid and solid
forms, and pass readily from the former to the latter of these
states, without any apparent change in their chemical con­
stitution. They are all of them indestructible when perfect­
ly dry, but readily undergo putrefaction when united with
water. Yet the modes in which they are respectively acted
upon by water are different, and affords an easy character of
distinction between them. Gelatin is soluble in cold water;
the solution when evaporated becomes gelatinous; and if
this jelly be dried, it is still again soluble. Albumen is like­
wise soluble in water; but whenever the temperature is
raised to 170°, it separates by coagulation, and this coagu-
lum is not again soluble. Fibrin is clearly distinguished by
its total insolubility in waterat any temperature* at least un­
der the common atmospheric pressure.
(300.) Then these principles likewise differ in their com­
position ; for though they seem to consist of some ultimate
principles of nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, phospho­
rus, and sulphur, yet these differ somewhat in their propor­
ASSIMILATION. 301
tions. The most accurate analysis of these substances into
their ultimate elements are those of MM. Gay Lussac and
Thenard, the results of which are exhibited in the following
table:
Gelatin. Albumen* Fibrin.
Carbon,...... 47-881 52-883 53-360
Oxygen,..... 27-207 23-872 19-685
Nitrogen,.... 16-988 15-705 19-934
Hydrogen,... 7-914 7-540 7-021
100. 100. 100.
It appears from the above analysis, that the principal dif­
ference of composition occurs in the proportion of nitrogen.
Gelatin contains the least of this element; albumen more;
and fibrin a quantity considerably larger than either of the
others. The latter substance appears therefore to be the
most animalized product. It also contains the largest quan­
tity of carbon, as appears indeed from the greater residuum
of charcoal which it leaves after destructive distillation.
Sulphur is perhaps peculiar to the composition of albumen.
On the other hand, the proportion of oxygen is considera­
bly greater in gelatin than in either of the other two sub­
stances. This predominance of oxygen, together with the
less compactness of its mechanical composition, are proba­
bly the causes of the greater tendency which gelatin shows
to pass into the acid fermentation. In this respect also,
gelatin shows itself to be less completely animalized than
the other proximate principles, and to partake more of the
chemical character of vegetable substances, which are well
known to evolve an acid in the progress of spontaneous de­
composition. There are indeed some vegetables, as the
tribe of fungi, that become alkaline by their putrescence ;
3 0 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
and these are found to contain nitrogen 5 so that gelatin on
the one hand, and the fungi on the other, may be regarded
as forming, on each side, the connecting links between these
two great kingdoms of nature.
(301.) It is a curious subject of speculation to reduce the
proportions resulting from the analysis of the French che­
mists, to those which are most reconcilcable to the atomic
theory. They will then stand as follows :
Number o f atoms of In Gelatin. In A lbum en. In Fibrin.
Carbon,.............. 15 17 18
Oxygen,............. 6 G 0
Nitrogen,........... 2 2 3
Hydrogen,......... 14 13 14
The weights, both absolute and relative, of the atomic
elements, are shewn in the following table :
Gelatin. Albumen. Fibrin.
Absolute. Relative. Absolute. Relative. Absolute. Relative.
Carbon,.... 90 50-00 102 53-40 108 52-94
Oxygen,... 48 26-67 48 25-13 40 19*61
Nitrogen,. 28 15-55 28 14-67 42 20-59
Hydrogen, 14 7-78 13 6-80 14 6*86
180 100- 191 100- 204 100*
In the conversion of albumen into jelly, by the slowly
continued action of nitric acid, we may conclude that the
acid imparts a portion of its oxygen to die albumen, and
perhaps adds also a small quantity of nitrogen ; thus con­
stituting the proportions assigned to gelatin by Gay Lussac
and Thenard.
7. Mucus.
(302*) The term mucus has been employed in very dif­
ASSIMILATION. 303
ferent senses by different writers. Some have applied it
vaguely to almost every animal substance which was not re­
ferable to any other class. Fourcroy and Vauquelin, while
they include under this term the viscid secretions which lu­
bricate the alimentary and other passages that open at the
surface of the body, they have admitted its claim to be con­
sidered as a peculiar proximate principle, but regard it as
analogous to vegetable gum, from which they suppose it to
differ only by containing a proportion of nitrogen. Their
descriptive account of its properties, however, are deficient
in the precision which the subject seems to require, and
which have been aimed at by subsequent chemists. Ber­
zelius, it is true, refuses to allow that there is any such com­
mon principle as mucus, and founds hisopinion on the ground
that the chemical characters of the fluids which bear that
name, are very various in different parts of the body, and
are modified in different situations, according to the parti­
cular purposes they are intended to fulfil. Mr. Hatchett,
in his interesting paper on the Component Parts o fAnimal
Membrane, has attempted to fix the meaning of the term
more definitely. Viewing mucus as extremely analogous in
its properties to gelatin, he considers these two substances
as merely modifications of each other; the former charac­
terized by its incapability of being gelatinized $ the latter
by possessing that property 5 while both are soluble in water.
Dr. Bostock, in his excellent papers on the Analysis of
Animal Fluids, has endeavoured to establish definite cha*
racters as belonging to this fluid, when existing in a state of*
purity. He states that ifthe solid matter obtained from the
evaporationof saliva to dryness,be re-dissolvedin water, and
filtered, the solution will consist of mucus alone, or with
scarcely any extraneous substance. By a careful evapora*
304 PHYSIOLOGY*
tion he found that the solution contained one two-hundredth
part of its weight of mucus. He also obtained a similar
principle by macerating an oyster in water, and evaporating
the liquid. It thus appeared that the water had dissolved
about one-fiftieth of its weight of animal matter. Mucus
thus obtained resembles gum-arabic, excepting that it is
somewhat more opaque. Like it, it has scarcely any taste,
dissolves readily in water, and forms an adhesive solution.
Alcohol added to this solution has no tendency to coagulate
it. No appearance of coagulation is produced by exposing
the fluid for some time to the heat of boiling water; nor is
there any tendency to gelatinize, by evaporating and after­
wards cooling the fluid. No distinct effect is produced on
the solution of mucus, either by the nitro-muriate of tin,
corrosive sublimate, or the infusion of galls. The subace­
tate of lead, or Goulard’s extract, occasions an immediate
opacity, and after some time, a flaky precipitate.
(303.) Dr. Bostock concludes that a decided and essen­
tial difference is thus established between mucus and jelly,
by the different effects produced by tannin, and by subace­
tate of lead. Tannin is a most delicate test of jelly, but
does not in any degree affect mucus. Goulard’s extract, on
the other hand, is a delicate test of mucus, but does not in
any degree affectjelly. The bichloride of mercury, (cor­
rosive sublimate), on the contrary, which is one of the most
accurate tests of albumen, does not appear to affect either
jelly or mucus.
Notwithstanding the attempts which Dr. Bostock made
to devise a method of directly determining the proportion
of mucus in a compound fluid, he was not able to succeed,
in consequence of the facility with which Goulard’s solution
decomposes the different extraneous ingredients, both ani­
ASSIMILATION. 3 0 5
mal and saline, which are almost always present in substan­
ces that contain mucus, even in a state the nearestapproach­
ing to purity. The salts are particularly liable to act upon
the metallic solutions employed as tests; so that it is im­
possible to say how much of the effect is owing to each of
these separate causes. The precipitates thrown down from
mucus by subacetate of lead, and nitrate of silver, were
found by Mr. Brande to consist both of the muriates and
phosphates of those metals. Mr. Brande also attempted to
obtain mucus free from neutral salts, by subjecting it to the
action of galvanic electricity. He thus detected a small
quantity of albumen in saliva, which was not discoverable
by the ordinary tests.
(304.) A great resemblance has frequently been noticed
between the mechanical properties of animal mucus and ve­
getable gum; and Dr. Bostock found that they strongly re­
semble each other also in their chemical qualities. A solu­
tion of gum-arabic, containing one grain of gum to two hun­
dred grains of water, was not affected either by the bichlo­
ride of mercury, nor by tannin. With the nitro-muriate of
tin, and with the nitrate of silver, there was only a slight
degree of opacity; but with the subacetate of lead there
was a dense precipitate instantly formed.
(305.) On the whole, however, animal mucus in its che­
mical relations appears to be most nearly allied to albumen;
and the constituent upon which its characteristic properties
principally depend, would seem, as Dr. Bostock remarks, to
be a mere modification of this substance.
(306.) We shall conclude our account of this substance
by the following direction as to the order in which it will
be most convenient to conduct our analytical inquiries of a
fluid, which may be supposed to contain either albumen,
306 PHYSIOLOGY.
jelly, or mucus. The first step is to observe the effect of
the bichloride of mercury ; if this produce no precipitate,
we may be certain that the fluid in question contains no
albumen. We should next employ the infusion of galls,
and if this also occasion no precipitate, we may conclude
that the animal matter held in solution consists of mucus
alone. Such being the chemical properties of the chief
proximate principles of animal organization, wc have next
to examine the mode in which these substances are produc­
ed in the economy.
SECT. II.--- ARRANGEMENT OF THE FUNCTIONS OF
ASSIMILATION.
(307.) The means provided by nature for meeting the
various demands of the system, by converting materials de­
rived from without into the proximate principles of animal
organization, the properties ofwhich we have now examined,
constitute a separate class of functions distinct from all the
others. They might not unaptly be termed the repara-
tory functions ; but as the changes which are effected in
the materials received into the body for its conversion into
nutriment are wholly of a chemical nature, we thought they
might, with still greater propriety, be termed the chemical
functions, in contradistinction to those the objects ofwhich
are entirely of a mechanical nature, and which have already
passed under our review.
(308.) The reparatory, or chemical functions, may be di­
vided into two great orders $ the first consisting of those
which effect all the changes that the food undergoes dur­
ing its conversion into blood; the second, of those which
FUNCTIONS OF ASSIMILATION. 307
apply the blood, or nutriment thus properly prepared, to the
variouspurposes for which it is wanted, and which effectsinit
those chemical changes that are required for those objects.
(309.) The first order may again be subdivided into seve­
ral subordinate processes, including, 1st, The preparation
which the food undergoes in the mouth by mastication, or
mechanical division. 2d, Its admixture with saliva and
other secretions, which is generally termed insal'wation.
3d, Its deglutition, or conveyance into the stomach. 4th,
Its digestion in that cavity, and conversion into chyme,
which may properly be termed vhymification. ,5th, The
subsequent changes it undergoes in the intestines, by the
influence of various agents, such as the bile, the pancreatic
and intestinal secretions ; and its ultimate conversion into
chyle, and separation from the excrcmentitious portion,
comprising the processes of chylification. 6th, Its absorp­
tion by the lacteals, its transmission to the heart, and its
sanguification, or conversion into blood. To the above
functions the title of naturalfunctions was given by the
older physiologists, and the name is retained in many mo­
dern works in medicine.
(310.) The second order comprehends, in like manner, a
number of most important functions, which, from their im­
mediate influence on the continuance of life, have been em­
phatically denominated the vitalfunctions. They consist,
1st, of the Circulation of the blood, by means of the heart,
arteries, veins, and capillary vessels. 2d, Respiration, by
which every portion of the blood is subjected in its turn to
the chemical action of the air respired $ is freed from its
excess of carbon, and becomes oxygenated, or arterialized,
and fit to be applied to the purposes of the system. 3d, Se­
cretion, a term which expresses a variety of changes effect­
3 0 8 PHYSIOLOGY.
ed in the blood, by passing through glands and other secret*
ing organs, adapting it to different purposes in different
cases. Closely allied in its object to secretion is the func­
tion of (4th) Nutrition, whereby the several parts of the
body receive accessions to their growth, and are maintained
in the condition requisite for the perfect performance of
their requisite offices. 5th, Absorption by the lymphatics,
for the removal of all superfluous or decayed particles in
the body. 6th, The last function in this order, which com­
pletes the series of chemical changes going on in the living
laboratoryof the body, is Excretion, o”the separation ofuse­
less or noxious materials from the blood, and their rejection
from the system. We shall proceed to the consideration of
these functions in the order in which they have been enu­
merated. But for the proper understanding of the subjects
they involve, it will be necessary to premise an inquiry into
the chemical nature of the substances which are received
into the body as food.
SECT. III.— PROPERTIES OF FOOD.
(311.) The food of man is morevarious inits kindthanthat
of any other animal; for it comprehends a great multitude
of articles both of an animal and vegetable nature. Hence
man has been regarded as entitled to the appellation of an
omnivorous animal* His powers of digestion, however,
though capable of being exercised upon a great variety of
materials,are yet inadequate to the assimilation of many sub­
stances, which form the exclusive food of several of the
larger quadrupeds whose structure and economy are not
very remote from those of man. The human stomach and
intestines are incapable of extracting nourishment from the
fibrous or membranous parts of vegetables, like the ox, the
PROPERTIES OF POOD. 3 0 9
sheep, and other herbivorous animals; nor have they the
power of digesting hard and solid bones, like the hyaena, the
dog, and other highly carnivorous quadrupeds* Neither
the leaves of trees nor the grasses, have ever, in any age or
country, been used as the food of man. Many savage races
of the American continent, though possessing vast tracts of
country abounding in trees and grass, have frequently been
visited by the extremes of famine, by which whole districts
have been depopulated. When Australia was first visited
by Europeans, the native inhabitants were found only oc­
cupying the sea-coast, gathering up a scanty and precari­
ous subsistence from the shell-fish casually thrown upon
the shore; but the settlements which have since been made
have occasioned their retirement into the interior, and their
numbers have rapidly diminished. It is obvious that, had
the leaves of the vegetables which grow wild in those re­
gions been capable of affording the smallest sustenance,
they would have necessarily been resorted to in these ex­
tremities of hunger. But no authenticated instance of the
kind occurs in the history of the human race.
(312.) Man, however, seems to enjoy the exclusive pri­
vilege of having organs of digestion equally adapted to the
assimilation of both animal and vegetable aliment of certain
kinds; and the range which is allowed him in this respect
is most extensive. Hence we find, that in most countries
where there prevails a high degree ofcivilization, and where
religious scruples do not interfere, both animal and vegeta­
ble food is indiscriminately employed by all who can pro­
cure them. In many parts of the globe, indeed, necessity
compels a restriction to certain kinds of diet; and in some
the same restriction is imposed as a religious duty. Thus
the Gentoos live entirely on the vegetable produce of the
310 PHY8IOLOGY.
earth, to which, however, they add the highly nutritious
article of milk. The Birmans, who are a remarkably active
and robust race, are said to Jive exclusively upon vegetable
food. On the other hand, the inhabitants of the mouths of
many of the African rivers, live wholly upon the produce
of the ocean. The flesh of the rein-deer constitutes the
principal food of the Laplander. In general it would ap­
pear that the inhabitants of cold climates consume a larger
proportion of animal food than those of the torrid zone.
Whence it has been, with much probability, inferred, that
less combustible matter is required bT the system in situa­
tions where the external temperature is habitually high ; a
remark which, if well founded, is conformable to the prin­
ciple already laid down in our statement of the purposes to
which a portion of the food is applied, namely, that of keep­
ing up the animal temperature. In the ruder periods of
society, when the arts of civilization had not yet diffused
their beneficial influence over mankind, it is probable that
men were more carnivorous than in the present state ofthe
world. The introduction ofthe use of corn, and other grains
of the same class, has effected in this respect an important
change in the condition of the species ; but it would appear
that the introduction of this great benefit was verygradual,
and must have required a long succession of ages before the
cultivation of the gramina had attained any degree of per­
fection.
1. Anim al Food*
(313.) The parts of animals which are chiefly consumed
as food is the muscular flesh ; but milk, and the different
products obtained from milk, together with eggs, also com­
pose articles of diet. The animals from which these ali-
PROPERTIES OP FOOD. 311
nients are derived, are principally the herbivorous mamma­
lia, different tribes of birds and fish, a small number of the
class of reptiles, and several species of mollusca and Crus­
tacea. The flesh of the mammalia and of birds consists
principally of fibrin and gelatin, intermixed also with fat.
Milk may be considered as an emulsion of albumen, oil, and
sugar, suspended in a large quantity ofwater. The two for­
mer ingredients, when obtained separately, constitute ro-
pectively cheese and butter. The eggs of birds chiefly con­
tain albumen, together with a small quantity of oil. Fish
contains less fibrin, but a larger proportion of albumen and
gelatin than the flesh of either quadrupeds or birds ; and in
some fish there is joined to these constituents a large quan­
tity of oil. This also is the case with those Crustacea and
mollusca which are used as articles of diet. When we
come, therefore, to analyze the proximate principles from
which animal nutriment is derived, we find them reducible
to the following: namely, fibrin, albumen, oil, gelatin, and
sugar; together with a few others, such as ozmazome, which
are of minor importance.
2. Vegetable Food.
(314.) The parts of vegetables most frequently consumed
as food, are the seeds, seed-vessels, fruits, stalks, roots, and
tubera, and more commonly the leaves. The most nutri­
tious amongstthe proximateprinciples resultingfrom the an­
alysis of these vegetable materials, are gluten, farina, muci­
lage, oil, and sugar. The seeds of the cerealia or of rice
constitute the chief bulk of the food in those countries where
civilization has made any considerable progress. Ofall these
kinds of grain, wheat appears to contain, in proportion to its
bulk, the greatest quantity ofnutriment; and this arises from
312 PHYSIOLOGY.
its abounding in gluten, which of all the vegetable principles
appears to be best adapted to the human organsof digestion.
In its properties it bears a strong resemblance to animal sub­
stances ; and it appears, indeed, by chemical analysis, to con­
tain a large proportion of nitrogen. Hence it may be con­
sidered as the most animalized of the vegetable products.
Gluten is contained in most vegetables which afford farina,
and is also found in the leaves of many esculent vegetables,
such as the cabbage.
(315.) Farina is found in great abundance in wheat and
other grains, and also forms a large proportion of the nutri­
tive portion of rice, and of certain tubers, among which the
principal is the potatoe. The leaves, stalks, andseed-vessels
of plants arerendered nutritious by the mucilage which they
contain, which is generally united with a portion of sugar.
(316.) The saccharine principle contained in vegetables,
and blended *rith their other elements, contributes greatly
to render them nutritious; though in its pure state, as ex­
tracted from the sugar-cane, or the beet, it is rather used as
a grateful addition to other articles of diet than as a sepa­
rate source of nutriment. Sugar may be extracted from a
great variety of plants besides those above mentioned. The
maple, (he birch, the parsnip, the cocao-nut, walnut, maize,
and carrot, contain it in great abundance, as is the case,
indeed, with every species of grain used as food. Almost
all fruits are more or less saccharine. Figs, grapes, and
dates, whichcontainit inlarge quantity, form avery con-
jN
sp|M
tit0
X
!of the foodof the inhabitantsof the
MMUli ofEurope, and dbe African nations on the borders of
tiHB I C a iM o w AH fruits contain a basis of mucilage,
•ad la assay this ameHage is combined with oil as well as
wltfa sugar.
PROPERTIES OP FOOD. 313
(317.) Attempts have frequently been made to reduce all
nutritious substances to a single principle common to all of
them/ and to establish accordingly a scale of nutriment, the
place which any substance should occupy on that scale being
regulated by the proportion in which this essential principle
existed in it. Haller conceived that jelly might be consi­
dered as fulfilling this condition, and as being the essentially
nutritive substance in nature.1 Cullen thought that this
property appertains to two substances, the nutritious matter
being either of an oily or saccharine nature, or consisting
of these two qualities combined.2 Richerand considers ali­
mentary matter as either gummy, mucilaginous, or saccha­
rine.3 Dr. Fordyce referred all nutriment to the presence
of mucilage.4 All these, and many other attempts at ge­
neralization, made by different physiologists at different
times, are premature and unphilosophical, since they asso­
ciate in the same class substances having properties totally
dissimilar, although they concur only in that oflfebrding ma­
terials for the support of the animal system. Perhaps the
most exact classification of the kind is that ofMagendie, who
refers all alimentary substances, whether animal or vege­
table, to the following heads, namely, farinaceous, mucilagi­
nous, saccharine, acidulous, oily, caseous, gelatinous, albu­
minous, and fibrinous.
(3IS.) Prout, in a paper published in the Philosophical
Transactions,* thinks that all the articles of food used by
man may, according to their chemical relations, be arrang­
ed under three heads, namely, the saccharine, the albumi­
nous, and the oily. Sugar, the basis of the first class of all-
1 JEkmaUa PkyMoguBf xix. 8, 2. 1 Phystihgg, %211.
EUmensde Physiebgi*, $ 3, p. 82. 4 Treatise on Digestion, p. 84.
*For the year 1827, p. 355.
314 THYSIOLOGY.
inentary substances, he finds to consist of carbon in different
proportions, from thirty to fifty per cent, chemically com­
bined with water. The basis of albumen and oil arc more
compound, but are also united with water, the proportion of
carbon existing in some of the oils being nearly eighteen per
cent. He is of opinion that two at least of these elements
must be blended together in our food in order to render it
either nutritious or digestible. Milk, the food provided by
nature for the young animal, exhibits the most perfect union
of these three elements.
(319.) It must be evident, however, upon a slight consi­
deration, that notwithstanding all the attempts that have
been made to establish an accurate scale of nutriment, more
must depend upon the powers possessed by the digestive
organs to convert the particular kind of food into nutritious
matter, than upon its being able to supply the elements re­
quisite for composing nutriment. Thus there are many sub­
stances, such as oil for example, which contain a very large
proportion of the elements which compose the blood, but
which are extremely difficult of digestion, and consequently
cannot of themselves be considered as nutritious, although
when blended with other substances which contain fewer of
these elements, but which enable the stomach to exert a
proper action upon the compound, they become highly nu­
tritive. This remark applies also to sugar, which, although
adding considerably to the nutritive qualities of those vege­
table products which contain it, would not, if used alone, be
capable of supporting life. Magendie found, that dogs fed
upon sugar alone soon became unhealthy, and if that diet
was persisted in, perished from inanition.1 Dr. Stark made
1 Physiologic, tom. ii. p. 390.
PUOPFRTIES OF FOOD. 315
numerous experiments upon himself, to which, indeed, he
ultimately fell a victim ; from these it appears, that sub­
stances which afford most nutriment, if their use be per­
severed in for any length of time, to the exclusion of other
diet, soon produce derangement of the stomach, and failure
of its digestive power. Peculiarities are often met with in
the stomachs of different individuals with respect to the
power of digesting particular kinds of food. In this respect
much depends upon previous habits; so that it is scarcely
possible to establish any general rules with regard to the
nutritious qualities of different species of aliment, that are
not invalidated by innumerable exceptions. The quantity
of liquid that is taken in along with the solid food is also
exceedingly various in different individuals; that which is
suited to the digestion of the one being found to disagree
with another. If we except soups, which of course consist
of the soluble parts of materials out of which they are pre­
pared, and also milk, the liquids received into the stomach
rarely contain any notable proportion of nutritious matter,
but seem rather to aid the digestion of more solid food, ei­
ther by supplying the place of a solvent, or by acting as a
stimulus to the stomach. They are also in many cases ne­
cessary for supplying the loss occasioned by perspiration,
which in hot climates, by regulating the temperature of the
body, is essential to the preservation of health. These pur­
poses are answered by many vegetable infusions, such as
tea and coffee, and also by fermented liquors, although the
latter contain to a certain extent many of the materials of
nutrition, such as sugar and mucilage, besides the stimulant
principle of alcohol.
3 1 6 PHYSIOLOGY.
3. Condiments.
(320.) With a view to the same stimulant effect, various
substances are added in small quantities to our food, which
act as condiments. Of these the principal is common salt,
a taste for which seems to be natural to a great number of
animals, and which, used in small quantity, has the effect of
promoting digestion. Other condiments, such as pepper,
mustard, garlic, and various other spices and aromatics, are
employed chiefly from the agreeable impression they make
upon the palate; but they in mar. r cases check the ten­
dency to fermentation which many kinds of food are liable
to undergo in the stomach. As a general rule, to which,
of course, there are many exceptions, whatever is agreeable
to the palate is adapted also to the digestive powers of the
stomach. A certain degree of variety in the articles of diet
is more conducive to the nourishment of the body than con­
finement to any single article.
SECT. IV.— APPETITES. ’
1 . Hunger.
(321.) Hunger is a peculiar sensation excited in the sto­
mach by the want of food, and by the presence of the gas­
tric juice in that organ conjointly. It is evidently an affec­
tion of the nerves of the stomach, for it is a good deal de­
pendent on the state of the nervous system. Its periodi­
cal recurrence at stated times shews that it is a good deal
under the dominion ofhabit. Hunger often suddenly ceases
upon the occurrence of sudden emotions of grief or anger,
and is much influenced by other causes of mental excita­
tion. Literary men deeply absorbed in meditation often
APPETITES. 317
forget that they have occasion for nutriment, and are uncon­
scious of the calls of hunger. Hence such persons are often
great sufferers from disordered digestion.
(322.) The presence of the gastric juice appears however
to be a natural stimulus to appetite, its primary action be­
ing probably in the nerves of the stomach. A similar effect
may be produced, when the stomach is full, by taking spi­
rituous liquors, or high-seasoned dishes. Those physiolo­
gists who were inclined to refer the phenomena of the living
body to mechanical causes, ascribed the sensation of hun­
ger to the friction ofthe surfaces of the stomach against one
another, which they supposed took place when it was emp­
ty ; but the anatomy of that organ, which, from its round­
ed form, and from the softness of its texture, would seem
totally incapable of producing friction by any of its move­
ments, is totally at variance with this hypothesis. Others
have conceived that the collapse ofthe stomach in its empty
state, by deranging the position of the liver and spleen, drags
down the diaphragm, and thus excites irritation in the nerves
of those regions 5 and they endeavour to support this doc­
trine by the alleged fact, that hunger is prevented and ap­
peased by wearing a tight girdle, which occasions pressure
on the stomach and gives support to the neighbouring or­
gans. But the instances already given of the dependence
of hunger on the states of the nervous system, are sufficient
to prove that it is not owing to any mechanical cause*
(323.) The chemical physiologists attempted to explain
the phenomena solely by the action of the gastric juice on
the coats of the stomach, which they imagined it tended to
corrode, and hence gave rise to an uneasy sensation. It is
much more probable, however, that the impression made by
this secretion is exclusively on the nerves of the stomach;
3 1 8 PHYSIOLOGY.
and there is no doubt but that this action is one of the
principal causes of hunger; for it has been found, that, if
after long fasting, when there is a considerable accumula-
lation of gastric juice, and when the sensation of hunger is
extremely intense, it at once ceases if the gastric juice be
removed by an emetic; or even if it be much diluted by
taking large quantities of hot water.
(324.) The effects of long abstinence fromfood are, great
loss of strength, emaciation, discoloration ofsthe blood and
of the secretions, an increase of nervous susceptibility, fever,
loss of sleep, painful sensations in the region ofthe stomach,
followed by total loss of appetite, delirium, and death. It
has been said, that the exterior of the bodies of those who
die of famine has exhibited a shining appearance in the
dark, as if they had been impregnated with uncombined
phosphorus.
2. Thirst
(325.) Thirst is a sensation somewhat analogous to hun­
ger with respect to its cause and effect, and with respect of
its depending on particular states of the nervous system. It
is considerably more distressing and intolerable than hun­
ger. The seat of the sensation appears to be in the mouth
and fauces, although its origin is generally in the state of
the stomach, or general condition of the system. In the
healthy condition of the organs it is a natural impulse
prompting us to supply the system with the fluids requisite
for carrying on its functions. But in the case of fevers,
and other morbid states, thirst is sometimes excessive, and,
if indulged without restriction, would prove highly injuri­
ous. In cases where a preternatural opening has been made
into the oesophagus through the neck, the sensationof thirst
is found not to be in any degree assuaged by fluids applied
to the mouth, or even swallowed, if they escape through the
wound, and do not descend into the stomach; whereas, it
is immediately relieved when the same fluids are introduced
into the stomach.
SECT. V.— PREPARATION OP THE FOOD FOR DIGESTION.
(326.) The preparatory processes to which the food is
subjected previous to its introduction into the stomach, are
partly of a mechanical and partly of a chemical nature, it
is masticated by the teeth and jaws, and at the same time
mixed with the saliva and mucous secretions of the mem­
brane lining the mouth, fauces, and oesophagus. The effect
produced by these operations is to reduce the food to a soft
and uniform pulp, which is more easily acted upon by the
solvent powers of the gastric juice than if it had been swal­
lowed entire.
PREPARATION OP THE POOD FOR DIGESTION. 3 19
1 . Mastication.
(327.) During mastication a great number of muscles'are
called into action. The principal of these are the power­
ful muscles that elevate the lower jaw, namely, the tempo­
ral, the masseter, and the pterygoid muscles, the latter of
which are capable of giving at the same time some degree
of lateral motion to the jaw, adapting it thereby to effect a
grinding action by the medium of the teeth. The lower
jaw forms a lever of the third kind with a double angle, the
fulcrum being at the condyles, which are curiously articu­
lated with the skull, by means of an interposed cartilage.
Its motions are almost entirely confined to those of eleva­
tion and depression; but it has also a more limited extent
of lateral motion.
3 2 0 PHYSIOLOGY*
(328.) The teeth, which are the great agents in mastica­
tion, have already been described and their different classes
enumerated, under the head of A n a t o m y . The respective
purposes served by each class are sufficiently evident from
their shape and position in the jaw. The incisor, or front
teeth, are employed for cutting or dividing the food like a
pair of shears or scissors ; the cuspidati, or eye-teeth, plac­
ed a little farther back in the jaw, are particularly adapted
to lay hold of, and tear asunder, fibrous textures that afford
considerable resistance ; their action may be compared to
that of pincers. Mr. Hunter, after reviewing their different
forms in the different tribes of quadrupeds, is enabled to
trace a similarity in shape, situation, and use of the cuspi­
dati, from the most imperfect carnivorous animal, which he
believes to be the human species, to the most perfect car­
nivorous animal, the lion. The bicuspidati and molares
compose what are called the grinding teeth, and their chief
office is the trituration of substances already torn off by the
cuspidati, or cut by the meeting of the incisors. The mo­
lares especially, being placed nearer to the articulation of
the jaw, or centre of motion, act with greater power in ex­
erting pressure on whatever is between them. If we wish
to break a very hard body, the shell of a nut for example,
jve instinctively place it between the backmost molares,
where the resistance it opposes to fracture acts by the
shortest lever.
The bony substance of the teeth is preserved from the
injury to which it would be exposed by the friction ofhard
substances, and by the contact of corroding fluids, and the
influence of the air, by being cased in enamel, which, as we
have seen, is considerably harder than bone. In conse­
quence of the peculiar mode of its formation, the enamel is
incapable of being renewed by a fresh growth when it has
been worn away by friction. When, however, the teeth
are lost by age, accident, or disease, their alveoli close and
are obliterated by absorption the gums then acquire a de­
gree of hardness, that renders them an imperfect substitute
for the teeth in mastication.
(329.) The chief agent in distributing the food so as to
place it in proper situations between the teeth for the pur­
pose of mastication, and for transferring it to the fauces, is
the tongue. This organ consists almost entirely of muscu­
lar fibres, which are variously arranged, and interwoven to­
gether in a very intricate manner, so as to render it capa­
ble of motion in every possible direction. Its root is affix­
ed to a bone which is peculiar to it, called the os kyoides,
from its resemblance to the Greek letter v, which furnishes
a basis of attachment to the greater number of the muscles
of the tongue, and the extremities of which being extended
considerably backwards/serve to keep the palate expanded
and always prepared to receive the food. But the tongue
also contains a set of muscular fibres, which proceed longi­
tudinally through the centre of that organ, unattached to
any bone, and serving to contract its length. The tongue
is thrust out of the mouth, not by any power of elongation
in the muscles, as might at first sight appear to be the ca**,*
but by the contraction of that portion of the radiating fibres
proceeding backwards from the inside of the jaw and the
os hyoides, and drawing forwards the root of the tongue
when they act alone. This complex structure is admirably
adapted to the great variety of uses to which the tongue is
applied, not only in mastication and deglutition, but also in
speaking.
(330.) The muscular actions of and cheeks are
PREPARATION OP THE POOD FOR DIGESTION. 321
3 2 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
also intimately concerned in mastication; and ample pro­
vision is made for their varied movements by being furnished
with so great a number of muscles as those which cover the
face, and are attached more or less to the lips and corners
of the mouth.
2 . Insalivation.
(331.) While the food is under the action of the organs
of mastication which effect its mechanical division, it is at
the same time mixed up with the saliva. This fluid is
found, when chemically examined, to consist principally of
mucus and albuminous matter held in solution in water, to­
gether with a small proportion of saline ingredients.
(332.) Dr. Bostock considered that he had detected two
kinds of animal matter in the saliva, one composing the soft
masses, and giving it its consistence and physical characters,
nearly similar to coagulated albumen, the other dissolved
in the water of the fluid along withthe salts, and resembling
the serosity of the blood.1 Berzelius regards the former of
these substances as corresponding in its properties to mu­
cus, and states the saline ingredients to be chiefly alkaline
muriates, with a small quantity of lactate of soda and of pure
soda. 2 Tiedemann and Gmelin state the solid contents of
the saliva to vary from one to twenty-five per cent, and to
consist of salts,"mucus, and ozmazome, to which are added,
in some cases, a little albumen and a little fatty matter, con­
taining phosphorus. The soluble-salts consist ofalkaline car­
bonate, which gives an alkaline character to the fluid, ace­
tate, phosphate, sulphate, muriate, and sulpho-cyanate. The
alkali in man is almost solely potass $ while, in the dog and
1Edin. Med. Journal ii. 44.
*Medico-Chiruryical Transaction*, iii. 242.
sheep, it consists of soda, with very little potass. The pre­
sence of sulpho-cyanic acid, on the other hand, is almost pe­
culiar to the human saliva, being scarcely perceptible in that
of the dog. Some insoluble salts, namely, phosphate of lime,
carbonate of lime, and carbonate of magnesia, are also de­
tected in the saliva, but in very minute quantity.1; Leurat
and Lassaigne, whose investigations were nearly contempo­
raneous with those of Tiedemann and Gmelin, represent the
chemical properties ofthe chyle as being essentiallythe same
in all animals, and consider the animal matter it contains
as a species of mucus.2
(333.) When viewed by a good microscope, the saliva is
generally found to contain globules of very minute size.
(334.) The saliva is secreted by the parotid and other
glands in the vicinity of the mouth, and is poured out in con­
siderable quantities during mastication. It has been esti­
mated that about six or eight ounces of saliva are at each
principal daily meal mixed up and incorporated with the
food. It flows much more abundantly during a meal, and
particularly if the food that is eaten possesses stimulating
qualities, and has a sapid flavour. The quantity is augment­
ed by the appearance, or even the idea of food, when the
appetite is keen. The influence of the nerves which supply
the salivary glands is very marked in regulating their secre­
tions, as we shall have occasion to observe more at length,
when we come to consider the function of secretion. The
pressure of the muscles of the cheek on the parotid gland
assists no doubt in the quick discharge of the secretion of
that gland by its excretory ducts 5 and the same remark
1 Recherches star la Digestion^ par Jourdan, p. 23.
9 Recherches Physiologiques et Chimiques star la D igestion, p. 33.
See B ostocks Elementary System o f Physiology, p. 487, note.
PREPARATION OF THE FOOD FOR DIGESTION. 3 2 3
324 PHYSIOLOGY*
applies also to the submaxillary and sublingual glands, which
also prepare saliva, and whose ducts open into the mouth ;
for we find, that during mastication all the muscles about
the mouth are in continual action. The tongue presses the
food on all sides, and thrusts it between the grinding teeth,
while the muscles of the cheek, but more particularly the
buccinator, against which the food is pressed by the tongue,
forces it back again under the teeth, until the whole has
been sufficiently subjected to their action ; and during the
whole of this time it is gradually receiving additions ofsaliva,
which thus become intimately and uniformly mixed up with
every portion of the divided food. When completely chew­
ed, it is collected together on the surface of the tongue,
which sweeps round the different parts of the mouth for this
purpose, and moulds it into the form of a bolus ; and the
point of the tongue being then raised, and its basis depress­
ed, an inclined plane is formed, along which the bolus is pro­
pelled backwards, and delivered to the pharynx, which is ex­
panded to receive it.
3. Deglutition.
(335.) The action of swallowing, simple as it may appear
to be, is in reality extremely complex, consisting of a suc­
cession of muscular contractions, nicely adjusted and ba­
lanced, so as to co-operate harmoniously in the production
of one general effect, the descent of the food along the
oesophagus. The whole exhibits one of the most beautiful
examples of mechanical contrivance that is to be met with
in the body.
(336.) The pharynx, as we have seen, is a large muscu­
lar bag, shaped like a funnel, capable of being contracted in
diameter, and of awnpressing its soft contents by means of
the muscles which are expanded round it, and are called the
constrictors of the pharynx. Other muscles are provided
tor elevating it, that is, for bringing it nearer to the base of
the tongue. While the food is passing downwards, the ve­
lum pendulum is expanded,thrown backwards, and raised by
the muscles adapted to perform these motions, so that it
closes the posterior nostrils, and acting as a valve, prevents
any portion of what is swallowed from passing either into
those cavities or into the eustacliian tubes. The bolus is
thus directed towards the oesophagus, being carried thither
by the peristaltic motion of the pharynx, while the root of
the tongue being at the same time depressed, the epiglottis
is turned backwards, and being applied to the glottis, accu­
rately closes its aperture, so that no part of the alimentary
matter can pass into the larynx. The mass of food being
now arrived at the upper part of the oesophagus, is propelled
towards the stomach by the successive contractions of its
circular fibres. The mucus, which is secreted in abundance
by all the surfaces along which it passes, and continually lu­
bricates them, very much facilitates its descent. The longi­
tudinal fibres of the muscular coat of the oesophagus contri­
bute their share in this action, by shortening and dilating
those portions of the canal into which the food is about to
enter. Dumas distinguishes four stages in this process; first,
that by which the aliment is propelled towards the pharynx;
the second, consisting in the dilatation of that cavity, by
which it receives the bolus transmitted to it; the third, by
which the pharynx closes upon its contents, and propels it
downwards to the oesophagus; and the fourth, in which, by
the action of the oesophagus, the food is propelled into the
stomach.1
PREPARATION OP THE POOD FOR DIGESTION. 3 2 5
1 Physiologic, tomei. p. 9IJ.
3 2 6 PHYSIOLOGY.
(337.) When any impediment exists to the due perform­
ance of these actions, fluids are swallowed with greater dif­
ficulty than solids, because the particles of the former hav­
ing a continual tendency to spread themselves, it requires a
closer and more exact application of the organs to prevent
their escape, while they are compressed in giving to the fluid
its proper direction. The action of suction performed by the
tongue, with the assistance of the muscles ofthe cheeks and
lips, which remove the pressure of the atmosphere from the
surface of the fluid to which the mouth is applied, is also
very complex. The tongue acts here as a piston; and some­
times the action is effected by the muscles of inspiration.
SECT. VI.----DIGESTION OH CHYMIFICATION.
(338.) The food has now passed from the oesophagus into
the stomach, through its cardiac orifice, which has so been
named from its supposed sympathywith the heart,nearwhich
it is situated. The office of the stomach is to convert the
food which it receives into the soft pultaceous mass of a grey
colour, which has been denominated chyme.* These secre­
tions do not proceed from any glands that admit of being
readily distinguished, their existence being rather inferred
from the presence ofthe secretion. Themembranes compos­
ing the coats of the stomach are capable of great distension,
so as to contain a large quantity of food, while at other times
that organis contracted to a verysmallsize, partlyby the elas­
ticity of its texture, but principally by the action of the cir­
cular and longitudinal fibres which encompass its cavity, and
which constitute its muscular coat. These fibres are so dis-1
1 The older authors made no distinction between chyme and chyle,
the latter substance being the product of the formation of the small
intestiaes.
DIGESTION OE CHYMIFICATION. 3 2 7
posed as to enable the different portions of the stomach to
act separately and successively on its contents, producing
what has been termed the peristaltic, oxvermicular motion*
Two purposes are answered by these actions 5 in the first
place, the food contained in the stomach is agitated and
thoroughly mixed together, while it is at the same time ex­
posed to the chemical action of the gastric juice ; and se­
condly, the ultimate effect of this motion is to carry the mass
very gradually towards the pylorus, through which it is trans­
mitted into the beginning of the intestinal canal.
(339.) While the food is thus rolled and agitated by the
peristaltic action of the muscles, it is at the same time sub­
jected to a degree of pressure, the purpose of which seems
to be, to bring into closer approximation the solvent fluids
with the materials on which they are to act, and thereby in­
crease the chemical power of the former, and also to repress
the evolution of gas, which has a tendency to be generated
during the species offermentation which the aliment under­
goes in the process of digestion.
(340.) The principal agent in effecting those changes
which constitute digestion, that is, which convert the ali­
ment into chyme, is the gastric juice. The important office
which this secretion performs has induced chemists to be­
stow great pains in obtaining its correct analysis, and in exa­
mining all its physical properties. When carefully collect­
ed, it appears to be a transparent and colourless fluid, hav­
ing a saline and somewhat bitter taste, occasionally possess­
ing acid properties, but probably in its natural and healthy
condition being neither acid nor alkaline. It contains a small
proportion ofalbumen,together with a matter which is either
gelatin or mucus. But while it thus differs to all appearance
in so trifling a degree from many of the other secretions, it
328 PHYSIOLOGY.
yet possesses veryextraordinary solventpowers over the sub­
stances usually employed as food. Even when made to act
upon these substances in vessels out of the body, provided
they are kept in a temperature equal to that of the human
body, it will reduce them in a few hours to the state of a
soft pulp, producing apparently the very same change which
is induced upon the same species of aliment by the diges­
tive process within the stomach. It is evident that the che­
mical analysis of the gastric juice affords as yet no clue to
the explanation of this singularproperty. The power which
the gastric juice possesses of coagu1iting milk, and other al­
buminous fluids, ahd of retarding the putrefaction of animal
and vegetable substances subjected to its action, and even
of counteracting this process when it has already commenc­
ed, are equally involved in mystery, and baffle all our endea­
vours to explain them on any of the hitherto known chemi­
cal principles,
(341.) There are three ways in which the gastric juice
has been observed to act on alimentary matter; the first is
that of coagulation, which is exerted on all the fluid forms
of albumen, whether existing in the serum of the blood, or
the white of the egg, or in different secretions, more espe­
cially milk. It is by means of this property, indeed, that
cheese is obtained from the coagulation of its albuminous
portion by the addition of rennet, which is an infusion of
the digestive stomach of a calf.* The object of this coagu­
lation appears to be to detain the substance for a longer
time in the stomach, and subject it more completely to the
solvent power of the same fluid, by previously acquiring a
solid form, which prevents its escape by the pylorus.
(342.) The second kind of action exerted on the food by
thegastricjuiceisthatofcounteracting the tendency to putre­
DIGESTION OE CHYMIFICATION. 329
faction, and even to the ascescent fermentation. This effect
takes place in a remarkable degree in many carnivorous
animals, who frequently take their food in a halfputrid state;
and in whom the first operation of the gastricjuice is to re­
move from it all putrescence; shewing that this secretion
possesses the property not only of preventing putrefaction
from taking place, but also ofsuspending its further progress
when it has actually commenced.
(343.) The third species ofchemical action exhibited by
the gastric juice is that of solution. That this effect takes
place independently ofany concurrent mechanical operation
ofthemuscularpowersofthestomachhasbeen verydecisively
proved by the experiments of Reaumur, of Stevens, and of
Spallanzani. Those of Stevens in particular, are highly
valuable, frombeing made on the human subject. He was
fortunate enough to meet with a man who had been in the
habit of swallowing stones, which he could afterwards, by
a voluntary effort, reject by vomiting from his stomach.
Taking advantage of this power, Stevens induced him to
swallow hollow metallic spheres perforated with holes, and
filled with different kinds of alimentary substances, which,
after being allowed to remain a sufficient time in the sto­
mach, were returned, and their contents examined. It was
invariably found that the food under these circumstances
of exposure to the gastric fluid alone, and protection from
external pressure of a mechanical nature, was more or less
completely dissolved, and reduced to the state of a pulp.
He afterwards pursued a similar train of experiments on
dogs, causing them to swallow the perforated spheres, and
after a certain time destroying the animals* and examining
the changes effected in their contents.
• (344.) Spallanzani has also varied and multiplied experi­
3 3 0 PHYSIOLOGY*
mentsofthiskindinamannerthatleaves no room to doubt the
truth of the conclusion deduced from them as to the solvent
power of the gastric secretion. Dense membranes and even
bones are reduced intoa pulpy mass by this fluid in many ani­
mals,whileatthesametimemanybodiesofcomparativelydeli­
cate textures, such as the skins of fruits, and the fibres of
flax or cotton, are not in the slightest degree affected by it.
This difference of action on different substances is analo­
gous to the operation of chemical affinity, and corroborates
the theory that digestion is effected principally by chemical
agency. The results of these experiments have been fully
confirmed by experiments made on the stomachs of persons,
who, in consequence of a wound, had a permanent opening
into that organ from the skin of the abdomen.
(345.) Portions of the stomach are sometimes found dis­
solved after death. This takes place more especially when
death has occurred suddenly during the act of digestion.
This effect can never take place during life, because the
living structures resist the solvent power ofthe gastricjuice,
which affects only dead animal matter. Thus it happens
that worms, and the larvae of insects live for a considerable
time in the stomach, without being acted upon by its se­
cretions.
(346.) Gas is frequently evolved in the stomach during
the process of digestion; but this would appear to take
place only in a disturbed or morbid condition of that pro­
cess, and by no means to be a necessary attendant upon
healthy digestion.
(347.) Acid is also frequently developed during imper­
fect digestion; but it appears from the experiments of Dr.
Prout,which have been fullyconfirmed by other experimen­
talists, that this effect is also attendant upon healthy diges­
tion, and that it is principally the muriatic acid which is
thus disengaged from its combinations, and makes its ap­
pearance in a free state. The lactic acid, an acid which
appears to be a modification of the acetic, also is present in
considerable quantity.
Professor Tiedemann and Gmelin,in an elaborate treatise
on Digestion lately published, found the acetic acid always
present in the gastric juice. They observe that water
alone, at the temperature of the human body, is capable of
dissolving many of the substances employed as food; and
of these many that are not soluble in water are so in the
diluted muriatic and acetic acids at a high temperature, and
they are inclined to ascribe to a chemical solution of this
kind the principal change effected by digestion.
(348.) Among the agents concerned in the digestion of
the aliment, the high temperature at which the contents of
the stomach and intestines is retained, must be considered
as one of the most important. The heat of the body un­
questionably tends to promote the chemical action of the
secretions which effect these changes. Whilst digestion is
taking place,both orificesofthe stomachare closed,and there
often comes on a feeling of chilliness, especially in a weakly
constitution, in consequence of the demand which the sto­
mach makes upon it for an additional supply of heat to as­
sist in the process that is going on. There is also a disincli­
nation to exertion, and frequently a tendency to sleep while
digestion is performing. Yet the indulgence in this disposi­
tion, as well as violent exercise immediately after a meal,
tend equally to retard the formation of chyme. The cir­
cumstances most favourable to perfect digestion, are gentle
exercise, with cheerfulness, and moderate mental exertion.
* (349.) It appears from Dr. W. Philip’s experiments,
DIGESTION OB CHYMIFICATION. 331
3 32 PHYSIOLOGY.
which were conducted chiefly on rabbits, that foodrecently
taken is always kept distinct and unmixed with that which
has remained for some time in the stomach, the former
being introduced into the centre of the masspreviously pre­
sent. The food is more digested the nearer it is to the
surface of the stomach, and is least digested in the small
curvature, more so at the larger end, and still more perfectly
at the middle of the great curvature. The state ofthe food
found in the cardiac portion is different from that found in
the pyloric portion of the stomach ; for in the latter it is
more uniform in its consistence, more dry and compact,
and apparently more thoroughly digested. Thus it would
appear that it is at the large end of the stomach where the
gastric juice is secreted in greatest abundance, that the
first and principal operations of digestion take place, and
that from this part the food is gradually propelled towards
the small end, becoming more completely changed during
its progress.
It appears from the experiments of De Beaumont on an
individual who lived many years with a fistulous opening
into the stomach, which allowed the contents of that organ
to be at all times examined, that the different kinds of ali­
ment all require to undergo the chemical action ofthe gas­
tric juice in order to be reduced to the state of chyle $ but
that the rapidity of this process differs considerably, accord­
ing to the delicacy of the natural texture of the food, and
the extent ofits previous mechanical division. Animal sub­
stances are found to be more rapidly converted into chyme
than vegetable ; and oily substances, although containing a
large proportion of nutritious elements, are comparatively
difficult of digestion. Some curious evidence was afforded
by Dr. Roget and Dr. P. M. Latham, on the occasion ofan
DIGESTION OR CHYMIFICATION. 3 3 3
epidemic scurvy which prevailed in the years 1823 and
1824, among the prisoners in the Milbank Penitentiary,
that too liquid a diet, consisting of too large a proportion of
soups, although abundantly supplied, did not furnish suffi­
cient nourishment for the preservation of health; probably
from their not being retained in contact with the coats of
the stomach during the time requisite for their undergoing
the process of digestion1.
(350.) A great number of hypotheses were devised by
the older physiologists in order to explain the process of
digestion. These we shall only briefly enumerate, without
engaging in any laboured refutation of what, in the present
advanced state of science, does not require much examina­
tion to prove the fallacy. The ancients had generallyadopt­
ed the opinion of Hippocrates, which was enforced by Galen,
that the food was digested by what was called a process of
concoction. This, however, seems to be only another term
for digestion, instead of affording any explanation ofits na­
ture. Some physiologists considered digestion as resulting
from a degree of putrefaction 5 a process which is in reality
ofa totally opposite nature, although agreeing in some minor
points, such as the breaking down of the cohesion of the
particles, and the occasional disengagement ofgas. Others,
reasoning from the analogy of the stomachs of granivorous
birds, which are provided with a strong muscular apparatus
for the purpose of grinding, conceived that a similar process
took place in the human stomach, and that digestion was
the effect of mechanical trituration. But the experiments
of Stevens and Spallanzani, the results of which have been
alreadystated,arealonesufficient to overturn this hypothesis.
1 See An Account o f the disease lately prevalent in the General Pent-
tentiary. B y P. M. Latham, M.D. London, 1825.
3 3 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
(351.) The earlier chemical physiologists ascribed diges­
tion to a species of fermentation. This term, however,
appears to have been misapplied, in as far as digestion is
conceived to be identical with either the acetous or vinous
fermentations $ and if it were meant to convey the idea of
a peculiar species of chemical change taking place in the
stomach, and in no other situation, then nothing is gained
by the substitution of the term employed for that of di­
gestion, which must express precisely the same idea. More
modem writers have imagined they were giving an expla­
nation of the phenomena of digestion, by referring them
simply to the action of the vital principle, or the vital pow­
ers, or the principle of life, or by whatever name they chose
to designate an imaginary agent which gave rise to all
those phenomena, not referable either to mechanical or
chemical principles. But after the remarks we have else­
where made on this radical error of substituting final for
physical causes, and of prematurely generalizing the prin­
ciples which actuate the living system, it is needless farther
to insist upon the fallacy of this mode of reasoning.
(352.) A doctrine has lately been advanced, with greater
semblance of truth, that digestion is essentially a nervous
function; that is, one which is directly dependent on ner­
vous power. A variety of facts unquestionably prove that
the functions of the stomach are very much influenced by
the states of the nervous system. The section of the par
vagum, or eighth pair of nerves, in the neck of an animal,
is followed by the almost total interruption of digestion;
whence'we may infer that the influence conveyed by these
nerves is necessary both for the secretion of the gastric
juice, and perhaps also for the muscular actions of the sto­
mach. It is exceedingly remarkable, however, that where
DIGESTION OH CHYMIFICATION. 335
the galvanic influence is sent through the mutilated nerves,
by means of a voltaic battery, digestion may be renewed,
and goes on for a considerable time; whence it has been
inferred by Dr. W. Philip, that the nervous power, or the
agency which is conveyed through the nerves, and which
influences secretion, is itself identical with the electric or
galvanic fluid.
(353.) The pyloric orifice of the stomach is furnished
with a circular band of fibres, covered by a fold of the ner­
vous coat; and acting as a sphincter muscle, which closes
the passage during the early stages of digestion, so as not
to suffer the escape of the food until it has undergone the
requisite changes which constitute its digestion. The ali­
ment is conveyed to the pylorus in proportion as it has un­
dergone these changes. There appears to exist in this
part of the stomach a peculiar and extremely delicate sen­
sibility, and a power of selecting those portions of the food
that are properly digested, and of allowing them to pass,
while those which are undigested are retained in thestomach.
It would appear, however, from some recent experiments,
that a portion of aliment passes unchanged through the
pylorus along with the chyme. We observe, for instance,
that many hard substances, such as the stones of cherries
and plums, find their way through the pylorus without
much difficulty. The seeds of many plants are only soft­
ened by their detention in the stomach, and passing with
no other change through the intestinal canal, are prepared
for germination in the soil to which they may be transfer­
red. Thus many species of plants and trees have been
known to grow at places very remote from each other in
consequence of their seeds having been conveyed by birds
that had swallowed them.
336 PHYSIOLOGY.
C H A P T E R VII.
CIIYLIFTCATION.
(354.) The aliment, now converted by the process ot
digestion into chyme, after passing toe pylorus, enters into
the duodenum, which is the first of the small intestines. In
the duodenum the chyme undergoes further changes, which
are quite as great and as essential to its proper assimilation,
as those which the food experienced in the stomach, and
they are at the same time involved in equal obscurity. Al­
most all that is known respecting the nature of these
changes, is, that soon after the chyme has been received
into the intestines, it begins to separate into two parts; the
one a white milky fluid, which is termed the chyle; and
the other, residual matter, which afterwards becomes feces,
and is eventually ejected from the body.
(355.) Previously to our examining the processes by
which this separation is effected, it will be proper to con­
sider the chemical properties of the chyle.
1. Properties of Chyle.
(356.) Chyle is the fluid which is prepared from the
food taken into the stomach, and which, being the last
process of digestion, is formed in the intestinal canal. It
is only of late years that we have acquired any accurate
CIIYLIFICATION. 337
knowledge of its chemical properties. It is evident that
experiments on this fluid can only be instituted on quadru­
peds, and that it is only by reasoning from analogy that
we can extend the knowledge so obtained to the human
economy. If chyle be taken from the thoracic duct of an
animal a few hours after it has taken food, it has very much
the appearance of cream, being a thick fluid of an opaque
white colour, without smell, and having a slightly acid taste,
accompanied by a perceptible sweetness. It restores the
blue colour of litmus, previously reddened by acetic acid ;
and appears, therefore, to contain a predominance of alkali.
When subjected to microscopic examination, chyle is found
to contain a multitude of globules, of smaller diameter than
those of the blood, and corresponding in size and appear­
ance to those of milk. In about ten minutes after it is re­
moved from the thoracic duct, it coagulates into a stiff
jelly, which in the course of twenty-four hours separates
into two parts, producing a firm and contracted coagulum,
surrounded by a transparent colourless fluid.
(357.) The coagulated portion, according to Vauquelin,
is a substance of a nature intermediate between albumen
and perfect fibrin, marking the transition from the one to
the other. It has perhaps, indeed, a closer resemblance
to the caseous part of milk than to fibrin. It is rapidly
dissolved both by pure and sub-carbonated alkalies, form­
ing pale brown compounds. Its solution in ammonia has
a reddish hue. The acids throw down a substance inter­
mediate between fat and albumen, which an excess of ni­
tric acid re-dissolves in the cold; and sulphuric, muriatic,
oxalic, and acetic acids, by boiling for a short time, also
dissolve it. Diluted sulphuric acid also very readily effects
its solution. Very dilute nitric acid gradually converts it
338 PHYSIOLOGY.
into adipocire; when the acid is more concentrated, the
coagulum assumes the appearance of gelatin; and when
heat is applied, oxalic and carbonic acids are evolved. It
is insoluble either in alcohol or ether.
(358.) That portion of chyle which retains the liquid
form contains a portion of albumen, which may be coagu­
lated by heat, alcohol, or acids. The clear liquid, reduced
by evaporation to half its bulk, deposits crystals, which were
found by Mr. Brande to bear a strong' resemblance to those
of sugar or milk.
(359*) A few saline bodies, similar to those existing in
most animal fluids, were found by Dr. Marcet, tobe present
in chyle.
(360.) The principal ingredients in chyle are, therefore,
according to Vauquelin, 1 st, a large proportion of albumen;
2d, a smaller one of fibrin; 3d, a fatty substance which
gives to the chyle the appearance of milk; 4th, several
salts, such as carbonate of potass, muriate of potass, and
prophosphate of iron.
(361.) Berzelius is strongly inclined to distrust the sup­
posed analogy between chyle and milk, as having but little
foundation in their real chemical nature.
( 3 6 2 .) It would be exceedingly interesting to ascertain
the differences which exist in the properties of chyle taken
from different orders of animals, that we might be able to
trace the influence of different kinds of food upon this fluid.
Dr. Marcet and Dr. Prout have made comparative experi­
ments with this view upon the chyle taken from different
dogs, some of which were fed exclusively on animal, and
others on vegetable food. The chyle in the former case
was found to be much whiter, contained more solid mat­
ter, and yielded more albumen than in the latter. The
CHYLIFICATION. 3 3 9
general results of these experiments are contained in the
following table. Some faint traces of oily matter and of
sugar of milk were obtained, but in quantities too minute
to be estimated.
Chyle from
vegetable food.
Chyle from
animal food.
Water.................................. 93-6 8 9 * 2
Fibrin.............................. • 6 • 8
Incipient albumen.............. 4-6 4-7
Saline matters.................... •8 •7
(363.) When both kinds of chyle were submitted to de­
structive distillation, the vegetable chyle produced three
times as much carbon as the animal chyle; the latter, there­
fore, probably contained a greater proportion of hydrogen
and nitrogen. The chyle of a horse, derived ofcourse from
vegetable food alone,was found by Vauquelin tobe in a more
animalized state than that which Dr. Marcet procured from
dogs. Dr. Prout, also, comparing the chyle as prepared
from vegetable and from animal food, found the former to
contain more water and less albuminous matter, while the
fibrin and the salts were nearly the same in both, and both
exhibited traces of oily matter. On the whole, he states
the difference between the two kinds of chyle as being less
considerable than had been observed by Dr. Marcet. On
tracing the successive changes which the chyle undergoes
in its passage along the vessels, he found that its resem­
blance to blood increases in each of these successive stages
oPits progress.1
1 Annals ofPhibtophy, xiii. 22.
3 4 0 niY SlO L O C jY .
2. Functions o f intestines,
(304.) At the part of the duodenum where the separation
of-the chyme into chyle and residual matter takes place, the
ducts from the pancreas and the liver terminate, so that the
chyme is subjected to the action of the secretions from these
two important glands, namely, the pancreatic juice, and the
bile, which slowly distil into the duodenum. Sir Benjamin
Brodie concluded, from experiments which he made upon
living animals, that the formation of chyle is the immediate
result of*the admixture of bile with the chyme. In study­
ing the changes which occur in this process, it will be ne­
cessary first to examine the chemical properties of these se­
cretions.
(365.) The secretion from the pancreas, which flows in­
to the intestine, and is mixed with the digested food almost
immediately on its exit from the stomach, has, no doubt,
some share in the process of chylification; but as it appears
to be exceedingly analogous, both in its sensible properties
and chemical composition, to the saliva, it is difficult to un­
derstand the mode of its operation, independently of mere
dilution. As it is found, however, to contain a large quan­
tity of albumen, a great portion of this substance may per­
haps go to the formation of chyle.
3 . Properties of
(366.) The bile, a secretion prepared by the liver, is
poured into the same part of the intestine as the pancreatic
juice. Its great importance in the animal economy induced
physiologists from the earliest times to pay much attention
to its chemical properties. Its analysis has been attempted
by Boyle, Boerhaave, and Baglivi, and more recently by
CHtLIFICATION. 341
Fourcroy, Cadet, Thenard, and Berzelius. But it unfortu­
nately happens, that in several important particulars the ac­
counts given by these different chemists do not accord with
one another. These discrepancies, as Mr. Brande observes,
seem partly to arise from the extreme facility with which
chemical reagents react on this secretion, so that many of
the supposed educts, or component parts which have been
enumerated by different chemists, are probably products of
the different operations to which it has been submitted, or,
at all events, modifications of its true proximate elements. 1
The bile of the ox, from the facility of preserving it, has
been that chiefly selected as the subject of experiment, and
made the standardof comparison with that of man and other
animals.
. (367.) The substances to which this fluid owes its speci­
fic properties are, according to Thenard, first, a peculiar in­
flammable resin, soluble in alcohol; secondly, picromel, a
substance insoluble in water and in alcohol, incapable of be­
ing crystallized, but forming, with resin and a small portion
of soda, a triple compound which is soluble in water; and
it is in this state that it exists in bile; and, thirdly, a yel­
low matter, distinct from either of the former. In addition
to die soda, which is combined with the resin and picromel,
bile contains a small quantity of phosphate, muriate and
sulphate of soda, as also phosphate of lime, and a minute
trace of iron.
(368.) Berzelius denies the correctness of the distinctions
which Thenard has endeavoured to draw between the three
animal ingredients of bile above mentioned. He gives to its
characteristic principle, the name of biliary matter; and
1 Cydopadui ofAnat* and JPhys* art. B ile.
3 4 2 PHYSIOLOGY*
describes it as being of a resinous nature, and precipitable
by acids; the precipitate, or *picromel> or the gaUensteffof
Berzelius, being a compound of the acid employed and this
biliary matter. According to Thenard, human bile differs
from that of the ox chiefly in containing no picromel. M*.
Raspail considers bile to be essentially a saponaceous sub­
stance, with a trace of soda.
(369*) The peculiar matter of bile is found in the resi­
dual matter, and does not enter into the composition of chyle.
The chief uses of the bile'appear to be those of a chemical
agent, promoting the decomposition of the chyme, and also
stimulating the secretion of mucus, and the peristaltic mo­
tion of the intestines. Digestion may, however, go on to a
certain degree, and imperfectly, although the flow of bile
into the intestines be entirely prevented.
4. Functions of the Small Intestines.
(370.) Professors Tiedemann and Gmelin found, from
their experiments, that the upper part of the small intes­
tines contains a considerable quantity of uncombined acid,
which is principally the acetic, mixed with a little butyric,
and rarely with the muriatic^ On proceeding to the lower
parts of the small intestines, they found the fluids had alka­
line instead of acid properties. This gradual disappearance
of acid is probably in part the effect of its neutralization by
the free alkali contained in the bile. The following, ac­
cording to these physiologists, are the changes which take
place in the contents of the small intestines. The chyme,
which is add, mixes with the bile, the pancreatic juice, and
the mucous secretion from the coats of the intestine. The
muriatic acid combines with the soda of the bile, and at the
same time disengages from it the acetic or carbonic adds
CHYIilFICATION. 343
with which it had been previously united. It also separates
the mucus and cholesterine of the bile in the form of white
flakes, which have often been mistaken for chyle. The pan­
creatic juice and the intestinal mucus contribute, in some
• unknown manner, to this effect Their chemical changes
are promoted, and the contents of the intestines successive­
ly propelled forwards along the whole tract of the canal, by
the peristaltic actions of the muscular coat, the effects of
which are analogous to those we liave already described as
taking place from a similar action in the stomach.
5. Function o f the Spleen.
(371.) It is probable that the spleen is an organ subser­
vient to some purpose connected with digestion; but what
that precise purpose can be is a question involved in great
obscurity. A vast number of hypotheses and conjectures
have been hazarded on this subject; but they are, for the
most part, devoid of eveh the slightest probability. Any
theory that assigns a very important office to the spleen will
be overturned by the fact, that in many animals the removal
of this organ, far from being fatal, or interrupting in any
sensible manner the continuance of the functions, seems to
be borne with perfect impunity. Sir E. Home has of late
years advanced an opinion, for which there appears to be
some probability, namely, that the spleen serves as a recep­
tacle for any superfluous quantity of fluid taken into the
stomach, and which, if not removed, nffght interfere with
the regular process of digestion. This excess he supposes
is transmitted directly to the spleen by communicating ves­
sels, and lodged there until it is gradually removed, partly
by the veins, and partly by the absorbents.
(372.) It appears, indeed, from the observations of Bi­
344 PHYSIOLOGY.
chat, Leuret, Lassaigne, and others, that during digestion,
and even after copious draughts of liquids, the vessels of the
spleen become exceedingly turgid with blood. Hence the
opinion has arisen, that the chief use of the spleen is to re­
lieve the stomach and intestines from that congestion which
would otherwise take place in their blood-vessels during di­
gestion. The very vascular, approaching to a cellular struc­
ture, of the spleen, which very readily admits of dilatation,
would seem to countenance this hypothesis.
6 . Functions of the Large Intestines.
(373.) The functions of the large intestines are not con­
fined to the mere conveyance and expulsion of feculent mat­
ter, although the exact nature of the changes which take
place in their contents, and the subserviencyofthose changes
to the object of nutrition, have never been clearly deter­
mined. It would appear that some important changes are
effected in that enlarged portion oTthe canal which is term­
ed the ccecum, and which has by some been regarded as a
kind of supplementary stomach, in which fresh chyme is
formed, and fresh nutriment extracted from the materials
that have passed through the small intestines. This chy­
mous product is supposed to be converted, as in the former
case, into a species of chyle, which, from containing agreater
proportion of oil, bears a resemblance to fat, and is in this
state absorbed from the inner surface of the great intestines*
The capability of the great intestines to extract nourish-*
ment from their contents is proved by the fact, that nutri­
tious matter injected into them has been known to support
life for a certain time, and also from their being able to ef­
fect the coagulation of milk. *
(374 ) A certain quantity of gas is almost constantly pre­
LACTEAL ABSORPTION. 3 4 S
sent in the intestinal canal, and often also in the stomach.
Magendie and Chevreul, who have analysed these gases,
found that what the stomach contained consisted of a mix­
ture of oxygen and nitrogen 5 but that in the lower intes­
tines the oxygen had wholly disappeared, as also a great part
of the nitrogen, and that, instead of these, the component
parts of the gas were carbonic acid, hydrogen, carburettcd
hydrogen, and a little sulphuretted hydrogen.
(375.) The time required for the completion of the pro­
cesses we have described as taking place in the stomach, the
small, and the large intestines, varies much, not only accord­
ing to the nature of the food, but according to the condi­
tions of the organs and of the general health, and to con­
stitutional peculiarities. The digestion of fbod in the sto­
mach is usually considered as requiring three or four hours.
Animal food is longest retained, and undergoes the greatest
alteration in the stomach. Vegetable food, on the other
hand, passes more quickly and with less alteration, out of
the stomach, and undergoes more change in the intestines
than animal food.
SECT. VIII.—LACTEAL ABSORPTION.
(376.) The chyle, which has been prepared in the duo­
denum, and along the whole course of the small intestines,
in the manner we have described, is received by absorption
into the lacteals, and by them conveyed to the thoracic duct,
which transmits it to the great veins in the vicinity of the
heart. The lacteal vessels may be considered as forming
part of the great system of absorbents which, as we shall
afterwards find, are extensively distributed throughout the
body. We shall therefore reserve their description until a
general account is given of this system, in treating of the
function ofabsorption generally.
3 4 6 PHYSIOLOGY.
(377.) The discovery of the lacteals was made in the year
1622 by Aselli, in the mesentery of a dog, which he had
killed a few hours after the animal had made aplentiful meal.
Their termination in the thoracic duct was discovered by
Pecquet in 1651. They originate by open mouths from the
villi of the inner coat of the small intestines, in the form of
very minute tubes, which soon unite into one common ves­
sel proceeding from each of the villi; and these vessels after­
wards joining successively form larger and larger branches,
which ascend along the mesentery, generally following the
course of the veins, till they are collected at the root of the
mesentery, and, after passing through numerous glands, ter­
minate at the lower end of the thoracic duct, where there
is an enlargement which has been called the receptaculum
chylu
(378.) Since uncertainty, however, still exists respecting
the minute anatomy of the lacteals, at their origin from the
intestine, many anatomists having in vain sought for the ap­
pearances above described. Their open orifices can only
be seen when the lacteals are distended with chyle, and they
are more readilydetected in fishes wherethey have novalves,
and where therefore the branches admit of being injected
from their trunks. Their coats, although thin and perfectly
transparent, yet possess considerable strength, so as toallow
of being distended by injections without being ruptured;
and even afford decisive indications of having the power of
contractingandpropelling forwards their contents. The uti­
lity of the numerous valves with which they are provided
^n every part of their course, in preventing any retrograde
motion of the fluid they transmit, is sufficiently obvious.
(3790 The power J>y which the chyle is made to enter
the open orifices of the lacteals, is by no means easily de-
LACTEAL ABSORPTION. 347
termined. It hasbeen referred generally to capillary attrac­
tion. But the application of the laws which govern the as­
cent of fluids in rigid inorganic tubes, to the elastic vessels
of the living system, is liable to much fallacy. The pheno­
mena appear to indicate that the lacteals exercise, in the
exclusiveabsorption of chyle,a power of selection somewhat
analogous to that of chemical or electric attraction. It has
been supposed, accordingly, that there is a specific attrac­
tion between chyle and the lacteal vessels, which causes that
fluid to enter into them; while other fluids which are pre­
sented to the same vessels are rejected. This obscure sub­
ject has given rise to various speculations, which are more
curious and ingenious than leading to any satisfactory con­
clusion. It is now generally agreed among physiologists,
that the power which the lacteals possess of admitting the
absorption of extraneous substances, if it exist at all, is ex­
ceedingly limited, and is exerted only on rare occasions.
Various experiments made on animals fully warrant the
conclusion, that by far the greater portion of the nutritive
matter imparted to the system is conveyed into the blood­
vessels through the channelswehave been describing, name­
ly, the lacteals and the thoracic duct. On the other hand,
there appears to be evidence that a large portion of the
thinner fluids received into the stomach passes at once into
the veins by the immediate absorption of these veins; for
they always disappear rapidly from the stomach, in what­
ever quantity they are introduced. It is probable also, that
some admixture of the contents of the lacteals with those
of the blood-vessels takes place in the mesenteric glands^
and that part of the chyle finds its way into the mesenteric
veins by more direct channels than that of the general cir­
culation.
3 4 8 PHYSIOLOGY.
(380.) An elaborate series ofexperiments was undertaken
by Tiedemann and Gmelin,with a view to ascertain whether
there exists any direct communication between the diges­
tive cavities and the blood-vessels, exclusive of the known
channel through the lacteals and thoracic duct. The expe­
riments consisted in mixing with the food of certain animals
various odorous, colouring, and saline materials, the pre­
sence ofwhich might be easily detected by their appearance,
odour,and other sensibleorchemicalproperties; and in com­
paring, after a proper interval of time, the state of the chyle
with that of the blood in the mesenteric veins. The odo­
rous substances employed were camphor, musk, alcohol, oil
of turpentine, and assafoetida. These were generally disco­
vered to have found their way into the system, by their be­
ing detected in venous blood, in the urine, but not in the
chyle. The colouring matters were sap-green, gamboge,
madder, rhubarb, alkanet, and litmus; these appeared, for
the most part, to be carried off without being absorbed;
while the salts, namely potass, sulphuro-prussiate of potass,
muriate of barytes, muriate and sulphate of soda, acetate of
lead and of mercury, and prussiate of mercury, were less
uniform in their course. A considerable portion of them
seemed to be rejected, while many of them were found in
the urine, several in the venous blood, and a very few only
in the chyle. Hence the authors conclude, that the odo­
rous and colouring substances never pass into the lacteals,
and that saline bodies do so occasionally only, or perhaps
incidentally; the whole of them are, however, found in the
secretions, and they must, therefore, have entered into the
circulation by some other channel than the lacteals. 1
1 Edin, Med, Journal, xviii. p. 455, &c. The above analysis of
SANGUIFICATION. 3 4 9
(381.) There appears not, as far as we know, to be any
thing specific in the action of the thoracic duct, which, as
it appears, transmits its contents into the subclavian vein,
as it receives it from the absorbents*
SECT. IS .— SANGUIFICATION.
(382.) The chyle consists, as we have seen, of alimentary
matter, reduced to a certain state, which may be regarded
as the first stage of animalization, having already made a
near approach to the nature of that blood into which it is
afterwards to be converted. This conversion of chyle into
blood takes place after its introduction into the sanguiferous
system of vessels, and while it passes round in the course
of circulation. During this course, it necessarily traverses
the minute vessels of the lungs, where it is subjected to the
chemical action of atmospheric air, and its constituents gra­
dually acquire the characteristic properties which they pos­
sess as the ingredients of the blood. The chief changes ex­
perienced are, first, that the fibrin of the chyle obtains a
greater cohesive tendency, and a power of spontaneous coa­
gulation ; and, secondly, that the white globules of the chyle
receive an addition ofred colouring matter, and are invested
with an external vesicle, by which their size is increased.
But in order correctly to estimate their changes, it will be
necessary to take a general review of the chemical and other
physical properties of the blood.
(383.) The nature and properties of the blood have at­
tracted a very large share of the attention of physiologists
in all ages; and immense labour has been devoted to the
investigation of its chemical constitution.
these experiments is that given by Dr, Bostock in his work on Phy­
siology, p. 617, note.
3 5 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
(384.) When examined immediately on its being drawn
from the vessels, the blood appears as a smooth and homo­
geneous fluid, of an unctuous adhesive consistence, of a
slightly saline taste, and of a specific gravity somewhat ex­
ceeding that of water. It exhales a vapour which has a
peculiar sm ell; but which, when condensed and collected,
affords a liquor not differing sensibly from water. Much
importance was formerly ascribed to this vapour, which was
dignified with the name of H alitus. As the blood does not
preserve the same consistence at different times, its density
is liable to variation. Haller states the specific gravity of
human blood to be at a medium, 1.0527. Dr. Milne Ed­
wards says that it varies from 1.052 to 1.057. Dr. Davy
states that the specific gravity of arterial blood is 1*049,
and of venous blood, 1.051. Although it appears homoge­
neous, it is found by microscopical examination to contain
a large proportion of minute globular particles, diflused
through a liquid.
(385.) In a few minutes after its removal from the body,
a thin film appears on the surface, and after a short time,
which on an average is about seven minutes, the whole mass
becomes cohesive, and what is termed its coagulation has
taken place. After it has remained for some time in this
gelatinous state, a separation of the mass into two distinct
parts gradually takes place. A yellowish liquid oozes out
from beneath the surface of the mass, and at length the
whole is resolved into a clot, or solid portion of a dark red
colour, which is called the crassamentum, or cruor, and con­
sists chiefly of fibrin, and a yellowish liquid,called the serum.
The proportion between these two parts has been variously
estimated; and does not indeed admit of accurate determi-
nation, from its being variable in itself upder different cir­
SANGUIFICATION. 351
cumstances. On an average, however, it may be stated that
the crassamentum amounts to about one-third of the weight
of the serum. Dr. Scudamore and Mr. Wood found, how­
ever, by taking the mean of twelve experiments, that the
crassamentum amounted to 53.307 per cent. The period
at which coagulation begins and is completed, varies not
only with the condition of the blood itself, but also with the
circumstances in whichit is placed. It commences sooner
as the vessel is moreshallow; but on an averageitmaybe said
to begin in about three or four minutes, and to be completed
in seven or eight. But the contraction of the coagulum
continues for a long time after, and sometimes does not cease
till the fourth day. It does not appear that the specific gra­
vity of the blood is sensibly altered during its coagulation.
(386.) Great difference ofopinion has existed as to the oc­
currence of a change of temperature during this process of
coagulation. The analogy of other instances in which the
conversion of a fluid into a solid is accompanied with the
evolution of heat, has induced many to think that a similar
effect attends the coagulation of the blood. Fourcroy stated,
that a rise of temperature actually takes place; but Hunter,
on the contrary, produced facts leading to an opposite con­
clusion. The result obtained by Fourcroy has,however, been
confirmed by the experiments of Dr. Gordon, who found
that the coagulating portion of a quantity of blood was
warmer than the rest by about six degrees. On repeating
the experiment on blood drawn from a patient labouring un­
der inflammatory fever, the rise of the thermometer was no
less than twelve degrees. Subsequent researches by Dr.
John Davy, have, however, thrown considerable doubt upon
the accuracy of the above conclusion, by pointing out some
sources of fallacy in the investigation of Dr. Gordon. Dr.
3 5 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
Scudamore,on the other hand, found that heatwas produced
during coagulation, but to a less degree. Vogel and Brande
have ascertained that carbonic acid gas is disengaged; and
this appeared to happen to an unusual extent in blood drawn
soon after a meal.
(387.) The coagulation of the blood is a phenomenon
not strictly analagous to any other with which we are ac­
quainted, and has never been satisfactorily explained. The
operation of external agents upon it is not so well marked
as to enable us to refer it to any general operation of the
physical properties of matter. Moderate differences of tem­
perature produce scarcely any perceptible difference in the
tendency which the blood has to coagulate. Within the
range of from 67° to 105% blood coagulates in the same
time as at the usual temperature of 98°. Sir Humphry
Davy found that no difference in this respect takes place
when blood is exposed to nitrogen, nitrous, nitrous oxide,
carbonic acid, carborated hydrogen gases, or atmospheric
air, although the contrary had been asserted by Luzuriaga.
Blood, indeed, coagulates more quickly when placed in a
receiver from which the air is rapidly exhausted, when
slowly drawn into a shallow vessel, or when exposed to
atmospheric air, at a temperature of 120°. This process
is retarded by a very low temperature. Mr. Hewson
placed blood in oil at a temperature of 38° j at the ex­
piration of six hours it continued fluid; but being then
allowed to attain a warmer temperature, it became coagu­
lated in twenty-five minutes. The same physiologist froze
a portion of Wood confined by ligatures in the jugular vein
of a rabbit; when thawed, the blood became liquified, and
coagulated. Admixture with certain neutral salts prevent­
ed altogether coagulation from taking place. This hap­
SANGUIFICATION. 3 5 3
pened when half an ounce of sulphate of soda was mixed
with six ounces of fresh blood; but on the addition of a
double quantity of water coagulation took place. Dr. Tur­
ner states that the coagulation of the blood is prevented
by the admixture of saturated solutions of chloride of sodi­
um, hydrochlorate of ammonia, nitre, and potass; while, on
the contrary, alum, and the sulphates of the oxides of zinc
and copper, promote coagulation. Blood coagulates slowly
when drawn quickly into a deep vessel, or when detained
at rest in the vein of a living animal between two ligatures.
In the latter case, Mr. Hewson found the blood two-thirds
fluid after the lapse of three hours and a quarter. When
the experiment was varied by blowing air into the vein, the
blood was found to have coagulated in a quarter of an hour.
Blood extravasated through the rupture of vessels, and
retained in the cavities of the body, often preserves its flu­
idity for a very considerable time. If the causes which are
capable of postponing coagulation have continued to operate
beyond a certain period, the blood is prevented from co­
agulating ; thus recent blood remains permanently fluid if
it be constantly stirred for some minutes. It has been
proved by the experiments of Hewson, Hunter, Deyeux,
and Parmentier, that the coagulation of blood is not en­
tirely prevented by diluting it with water $ but Dr. Craw­
ford1 showed that this process is retarded for several hours
by the admixture of blood with twelve times its bulk of
water.
(388.) There are many conditions of the living system
that have a prodigious influence on the tendency of the
blood to coagulate, and that operate in a manner which it
1 On Animal H eal, p« 248.
3 5 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
is impossible to explain. Many causes of sudden death, as
a blow upon the stomach, or violent injury of the brain ;
lightning and electricity; several animal poisons, as that of
venemous serpents 5 narcotic vegetable principles, as cyan­
ogen ; also excessive exercise, or even violent mental emo­
tions, when they produce the sudden extinction of life, pre­
vent the usual coagulation of the blood from taking place.
(389.) The doctrine maintained by Hunter,that the blood
possesses life, and that its coagulation is one of the acts of
this living principle, is but little calculated to remove the
difficulty 5 for the operation of this principle in producing
coagulation would still be as much in need of explanation
as the phenomenon itself, which it professes to account for.
We must, in the present imperfect state of our knowledge,
content ourselves with referring this phenomenon to an in­
herent disposition which the fibrin possesses to assume the
solid form, when no counteracting cause is present. Dr.
Bostock, 1 observes, that as it is gradually added to the blood
particle by particle, whilst this fluid is in a state of captation
in the vessels, it has no opportunity of concreting 5 but
when it is suffered to lie at rest, either within or without
the vessels, it is then able to exercise its natural tendency.
(390.) We have already stated that the crassamentum
consists chiefly of fibrin; but it owes its dark colour to the
presence of what are called the red particles of the blood,
and which are entangled in it during its coagulation. The
serum, which is the part of the blood that remains fluid
after the coagulation of the fibrin, is itself coagulated by
heat, in consequence of the large proportion of albumen it
contains ; the remaining portion which still continues fluid,
1 Phymhgy, p.271.
3 5 6 PHYSIOLOGY.
after the introduction of the use of the microscope. They
were soon afterwards examined with great care and mi­
nuteness by the indefatigable Leeuwenhoek, whose name
stands foremost among*those who made observations with
this instrument. They soon became the subject of much
speculation, and laid the foundation of many fanciful hypo­
theses which were current at the time, but are now con­
signed to deserved neglect. Leeuwenhoek himself was led
by his imagination to the belief that these red globules
were each composed of a series of globular bodies of differ­
ent orders descending in regular gradations. He supposed
each to be made up of six particles oi serum; each particle
of serum of six particles of lymph, and so on in succession.
This strange hypothesis, visionary as it now appears, was
so accordant with the prevailing taste for mathematical dis­
quisitions, that it was very generally adopted, and held a
powerful sway over the opinions and reasonings of the phy­
sicians of that age. It forms a leading feature in the pa­
thological speculations of Boerhaave ; and although its fu­
tility was sufficiently exposed by Lancisi and Senae, it
maintained its ground even to the time of Haller.
(393.) But a better spirit began at length to prevail; the
illusive dreams of fancy were superseded by the sober and
attentive observation of nature 5 and truth was sought by
the judiciouscultivation of experimental inquiry, the only le­
gitimate path by which it can be approached. About the
middle of the eighteenth century, the Abbe de la Torre,
employing microscopes of considerable power, obtained the
appearance offlattened annular bodies, with a perforation in
the centre. Hewson, who observed them with still greater
attention to accuracy, states them to be hollow vesicles of
a flattened shape, and containing a smaller, solid, and sphe­
SANGUIFICATION. 3 5 7
rical particle, which was freely moveable within them, or, as
he compares it, “ like a pea in a bladder/’ He asserted,
that by adding water, these particles swell out into a glo­
bular shape, and afterwards burst and disappear, in conse­
quence of their being dissolved in the water; but if moist­
ened with an aqueous solution of any neutral salt, they pre­
serve their natural flat shape. Cavallo describes them as
much more irregular in their form than Hewson represent­
ed them; and he was led from his observations to the con­
clusion that the appearance either of a perforation, or of a
central particle,is in realityan optical deception, arisingfrom
the refraction of the light by which the objects are viewed,
as it passes through the convex surfaces of the globules.
He also endeavours to explain the appearance which led
Hewson to believe that the central nucleus is moveable
within the external vesicle, by some apparent change in the
position ofthe luminous image, in consequence of accidental
variations in the direction in which the light is viewed.
Very small artificial globules of solid glass which he con­
structed for the purpose, presented under the microscope
very nearly the same appearances as the globules of the
blood; and hence he concluded, that the latter, notwith­
standing these appearances, were nearly globular and com­
posed of a uniform material.
(394.) Notwithstanding the ingenuity displayed in this
reasoning, the more profound examination which the sub­
ject has received from Dr. Young, induces us to revert, to a
certain extent, to the opinion of Hewson. He observes that
in such examinations it is only necessary to employ a full
and unlimited light, in order to obtain a very distinct out­
line of what appears manifestly to be a very simple sub­
stance. But we should remember that where the substances
258 rm rsioLO G Y .
to be examined are perfectly transparent, it is only in a con*
fined and diversified light that we can gain a correct idea
of their structure. The eye is best prepared for the inves­
tigation by beginning with the blood of a skate, of which
the particles are, from their greater size, so conspicuous, and
of so unequivocal a form, as at once to set aside the idea of
a simple homogeneous substance. They are oval and de­
pressed, like an almond, but less pointed, and a little flat­
ter. Each ofthem contains a round nucleus which is wholly
independent in its appearance of the figure of the whole
disc, being sometimes a little irre, ular in its form, seldom
deviating from its central situation, but often remaining dis­
tinctly visible, whilst the oval part is scarcely perceptible.
This nucleus is about the size of a whole particle of human
blood, the whole oval being about twice as wide, and not
quite three times as long. The nucleus is very transpa­
rent, and forms a distinct image of any large object which
intercepts a part of the light by which it is seen, but exhi­
bits no inequalities of light and shade that could lead to any
mistake respecting its form. But if we place some parti­
cles of human blood under similar circumstances, near the
confines of light and shade, although they are little, if at all
less transparent, we immediately see an annular shade on
the disc, which is most marked on the side of the centre on
which the marginal part appears the brightest, and conse­
quently indicates a depression in the centre, which De la
Torre mistook fora perforation. It is mostobservable when
the drop is dying away, so that the particles rest on the
glass; and when a smaller particle is viewed, it has merely
a dark central spot, without any lighter central space. Dr.
Monro had represented the globules of the blood as being
of an exceedingly flattened shape, or, as he expresses it,
SANGUIFICATION. 3 5 9
« as fiat as a guinea” But Dr. Young never saw them of
this shape, although he states their axis as being sometimes
not more than one-third, or one-fourth of their greatest di­
ameter. He also states that they do not seem, as Hewson
asserted, to have their dimensions much affected by the
fluid in which they are suspended, since they may easily be
spread thin on glass, and dried without much change in
their magnitude, at least in the direction of the surface to
which they adhere ; and they remain distinct as long as the
access of moist air is completely excluded. When they
have been kept for some time in water, and a little solution
of salt is added, their form and structure, as Hewson ob­
served, are more easily examined, and appear to resemble
those of a soft substance, with a denser nucleus; but the
comparison which he makes of their being like a pea in a
bladder, Dr. Young thinks is quite inapplicable.
(395.) It has commonly been asserted, and especially
by Hewson, that these particles are readily soluble in water ;
but Dr. Young has 6hewn that this opinion is erroneous,
and depends partly on their passing readily through the fil­
tering paper, a circumstance observed by Berzelius, and
partly on the extraction of a great part of their colouring
matter, together with which they lose much of their specific
gravity, so that instead of subsiding, they are generally sus­
pended in the fluid. Tlieir presence may still, however, be
detected by a careful examination; and they seem in this
state to have recovered in some measure their original form,
which they had lost when first immersed in the water. A
curious observation on the influence of circumstances on
the form of the globules, has been made by Mr. Bauer. He
remarks that in the skate they are oval during the life of the
animal, butbecome flattened after its death. This circum­
3 6 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
stance may perhaps tend to reconcile some of the discord­
ant statements which have been made on this subject.
(396.) The size of the red globules has also been very
differently estimated by different observers. These discre­
pancies receive some explanation by the circumstancewhich
Dr. Milne Edwards appears to have established, of the glo­
bules differing considerably in their size in the same indi­
vidual.1 The most accurate measurements appear to be
those of Dr. Young, and of Captain Kater, who both agree
that the particles of human blood are between the four-
thousandth and the six-thousandth of an inch in their dia­
meter ; and they may therefore be taken at a medium at
the five-thousandth of an inch. Mr. Bauer has stated them
to be considerably larger, even as much as the one thou­
sand-seven-hundredth of an inch in their entire state, and
that the central part is the two-thousandth of an inch in di­
ameter. But the observations of Dr. Young are more pro­
bably correct, from their coincidence with those of Captain
Kater, which were conducted in a different manner.
(397.) The difficulty of procuring the red particles in a
separate state, unmixed with serum, is so great as to pre­
clude us from obtaining any distinct knowledge of their che­
mical composition and properties. The colouring matter of
the blood has been termed hematine, or hemertosine. But
according to M. Lecanu, the substance usually termed he-
matine is in reality a combination of albumen and the pure
colouring matter of the blood, which he proposes to desig­
nate globuline. Although it appears from Dr. Young’s ob­
servations, that the globules themselves do not dissolve in
water, yet they impart to it the whole of their colouring
1Cydopedia ofAnat. art. Blood*
SANGUIFICATION* 361
matter. The watery solution turns syrup of violets green;
and after some time deposits a flocculent precipitate, proba­
bly from the coagulation of albumen, the presence of which
is indicated also by the effect ofboiling the Solution. Hence
it has been concluded that the colouring matter consists of
albumen, dissolved by an excess of pure soda. When eva­
porated and calcined in a crucible, a residuum is obtained,
amounting to about one-thousandth of the weight of solid
matter, and composed, according to Fourcroy and Vau-
quelin, chiefly of subphosphate of iron.
(398.) Berzelius, 1 who has made minute inquiry into this
subject, informs us that the colouring matter of the blood,
separated from the other part, leaves one-eightieth of an in­
combustible residuum, of which rather more than one-half
is an oxide of iron. The existence of iron in the blood was
first discovered by Mengliini; but its amount was much
over-rated both by himself and many of the earlier chemists
who succeeded him. It is difficult to determine in what
state this iron exists in the blood. It would appear not to
be in the state of any of the known salts of this metal ; be­
cause before the blood has been calcined, the iron escapes
detection by any of the tests which usually indicate its pre­
sence in solutions; and yet the solubility of the colouring
matter in the serum would, on the other hand, appear to
support the opinion ofits possessing saline properties. Ber­
zelius has been able to deduce from his numerous experi­
ments on this point, merely the negative conclusion, that
no salt of iron which he tried was capable of being combin­
ed with the serum, so as to produce a compound simitar to
the colouring matter of the blood; thus refuting the alleg­
1 Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. iii p. 215.
362 PHYSIOLOGY.
ed synthetic proof adduced by Fourcroy, who had stated
thatsubphosphate of iron dissolves in albumen, and imparts
to it a bright red colour, resembling that of blood. 1
(399*) It has long been the prevailing opinion that the
blood derives its red colour from the iron it contains; but
the truth of this opinion has been called in question by many
writers ofhigh authority, and in particular by Dr. Wells^and
by Mr. Brande.3 The experiments of Dr. Wells, however,
as is remarked by Dr. Bostock, seem only to prove that the
colour of the blood is not occasioned by any salt of iron, or
by iron in such a state as to be ahicted by the ordinary tests.
Mr. Brande procured the colouring matter from venous blood
in a detached state, by removing the fibrin from it by agi­
tation while it was coagulating, and suffering the red glo­
bules to subside in the serum, from which they could be ob­
tained in a concentrated form. Examining this portion by
means of different reagents, he arrived at the conclusion,
that the colouring principle of the blood is an animal sub­
stance of a peculiar nature, susceptible, like the colouring
matter from vegetables, of uniting with bases, or mordants,
and therefore admitting of being applied in the art of dye­
ing. The most effectual mordants for the colouring matter
of the blood are the salts of mercury, especially the nitrate
and bichloride, or corrosive sublimate. On examining the
colouring matter distinct from the crassamentum,Mr.Brande
did not discover a greater proportion of iron than exists in
the other principles of blood. These results, in as far as
they relate to the quantity of iron, are at variance with the
late#and apparently more elaborate experiments of Berze­
lius,who still maintains that the colouring matter ofthe blood
1 System* de Connate. Chymiques, vol. ix. p. 207, 208.
*Phil Trans. for 1797, p. 410. * Pktl. Trans, for 1812, p. 99.
SANGUIFICATION. 3 6 3
contains iron, not indeed discoverable by reagents, but de­
cisively proved to exist in its ashes. In every respect, ex­
cept in containing that metal, the colouring matter agrees
with fibrin and albumen; and he seems disposed to believe
that its colour, though not depending on the presence mere­
ly of an oxide of iron, may be produced by a compound of
which the oxide is an essential part.
Vauquelin's experiments1 may in some respectsbedeemed
to corroborate those of Brande, inasmuch as they show that
iron cannot be detected by liquid tests in solutions of the
colouring matter; but they at the same time show that this
metal is readily detected by these tests in the fluid from
which the colouring matter has subsided.
(400.) The changes in the colour of the blood produced
by its exposure to different gases, are probably owing to their
action on the red globules. Arterial blood is blackened, and
venous blood rendered darker, by nitrogen, or carbonic acid
gases; but its bright florid hue is restored by exposure to
oxygen gas. We shall have occasion to revert to this sub­
ject in treating of respiration.
(401.) Besides the ordinary red globules, others ofa much
smaller size have been detected by Mr. Bauer floating in the
serum, and even apparently generated while the fluid is
under examination. To these Sir Evcrard Home gave the
name of lymph globules.*
(402.) The serum of the blood, or the fluid part which is
left after the separation of the crassamentum, is a transpar­
ent and apparently homogeneous liquid, of a yellowish and
sometimes greenish colour, of a saline taste, and adhesive
consistence. Its specific gravity isvariable, but maybe taken,
1Annaks de Chime et Je Physique, i 9.
* PkdL Trans, for 18)9, p. 2.
362 PHYSIOLOGY.
ed synthetic proof adduced by Fourcroy, who had stated
thatsubphosphate of iron dissolves in albumen, and imparts
to it a bright red colour, resembling that of blood. 1
(3 9 9 *) It has long been the prevailing opinion that the
blood derives its red colour from the iron it contains; but
the truth of this opinion hasbeen called in question by many
writers of high authority, and in particular by Dr. Wells^and
by Mr. Brande.3 The experiments of Dr. Wells, however,
as is remarked by Dr. Bostock, seem only to prove that the
colour of the blood is not occasioned by any salt of iron, or
by iron in such a state as to be affected by the ordinary tests.
Mr. Brande procured the colouring matter from venous blood
in a detached state, by removing the fibrin from it by agi­
tation while it was coagulating, and suffering the red glo­
bules to subside in the serum, from which they could be ob­
tained in a concentrated form. Examining this portion by
means of different reagents, he arrived at the conclusion,
that the colouring principle of the blood is an animal sub­
stance of a peculiar nature, susceptible, like the colouring
matter from vegetables, of uniting with bases, or mordants,
and therefore admitting of being applied in the art of dye­
ing. The most effectual mordants for the colouring matter
of the blood are the salts of mercury, especially the nitrate
and bichloride, or corrosive sublimate. On examining the
colouring matter distinctfrom the crassamentum, Mr.Brande
did not discover a greater proportion of iron than exists in
the other principles of blood. These results, in as far as
they relate to the quantity of iron, are at variance with the
late^and apparently more elaborate experiments of Berze­
lius,who still maintainsthat the colouring matter ofthe blood
1 System de Cbnnais. Chymiques, vol. ix. p. 207, 208.
*PML Tram, for 1797, p. 410. » PM. Trans, for 1812, p. 90.
SANGUIFICATION. 3 6 3
contains iron, not indeed discoverable by reagents, but de­
cisively proved to exist in its ashes. In every respect, ex­
cept in containing that metal, the colouring matter agrees
with fibrin and albumen; and he seems disposed to believe
that its colour, though not depending on the presence mere­
ly of an oxide of iron, may be produced by a compound of
which the oxide is an essential part.
Vauquelin’s experiments1 may in some respectsbedeemed
to corroborate those of Brande, inasmuch as they show that
iron cannot be detected by liquid tests in solutions of the
colouring matter ; but they at the same time show that this
metal is readily detected by these tests in the fluid from
which the colouring matter has subsided.
(400.) The changes in the colour of the blood produced
by its exposure to different gases, are probably owing to their
action on the red globules. Arterial blood is blackened, and
venous blood rendered darker,by nitrogen, or carbonic acid
gases; but its bright florid hue is restored by exposure to
oxygen gas. We shall have occasion to revert to this sub­
ject in treating of respiration.
(401.) Besides the ordinary red globules, others ofa much
smaller size have been detected by Mr. Bauer floating in the
serum, and even apparently generated while the fluid is
under examination. To these Sir Everard Home gave the
name of lymph globules.*
(402.) The serum of the blood, or the fluid part which is
left after the separation of the crassamentum, is a transpar­
ent and apparently homogeneous liquid, of a yellowish and
sometimes greenish colour, of a saline taste, and adhesive
consistence. Its specific gravity isvariable, but maybe taken,
1Annaks de Chunk et de Physique, L 9.
2 Phil, Trans. for 1819, p. 2.
3 6 4 PHYSIOLOGY.
on an average, at about 1*025. When exposed to a tem­
perature of 160°, the whole is converted into a firm white
mass, perfectly analogous to the white of an egg which has
been hardened by boiling. It may, in fact, be regarded as
identical with coagulated albumen, the chemical properties
of which we have already described.
(403.) Although the whole of the mass of serum appears
to be rendered solid by the process of coagulation, yet if
this coagulum be cut into slices, and subjected to gentle
pressure, or if it be placed on the mouth of a funnel, a small
quantity of a slightly opaque liquor drains from it, which is
called the serosity. It has a saline taste, and a peculiar
odour, and consists of several ingredients. Its existence as
a substance distinct from the albumen was first pointed out
by Dr. Butt in 1760, and its properties were farther ex­
amined by Dr. Cullen, who speaks of it as a solution offibrin
in water. Hewson believed it to be of a mucous nature.
Parmentier and Deyeux published, in 1790, an elaborate set
of experiments which they made upon it, from which they
drew the conclusion, that the animal substance contained in
the serosity was gelatin. This statement seemed so satis­
factory, from the apparent accuracy of the investigation,
that it was generally acquiesced in. Not only was jelly con­
sidered as one of the constituents of the blood, but means
were pointed out for ascertaining its proportion; and its
supposed agency in the economy was made the foundation
of many physiological speculations. But Dr. Bostock has
since proved that this opinion is not founded in fact. He
was unable to detect the smallest quantity ofjelly either in
the serosity of the blood, or in any other of die albuminous
fluids. In this conclusion he is fully supported by the tes­
timonies of Berzelius, Marcet, and Brande.
SANGUIFICATION. 365
r (404.) It may be inferred from the experiments of Mr.
Brande, that serosity consists of a small quantity of albu­
men, still retained in solution by a large proportion of al­
kali. According to Berzelius, the serosity contains no sul­
phuric acid, and only a vestige of the phosphoric, and con­
sists chiefly of water, with some pure soda holding albumen
in solution, of muriates of soda and of potass, of lactate of
soda, and a peculiar animal matter which always accom­
panies the lactate* Dr. Bostock found the amount of solid
contents to vary from the forty-sixth to the seventieth part
of its weight, or, on an average, about the fiftieth. It has
been a matter of dispute which of the mineral alkalies exists
in serum in an uncombined form. Dr. Pearson maintained
that it was potass; but Drs. Bostock, Marcet, and Berze­
lius, with much greater appearance of correctness, allege
that it is soda.
(405.) The component parts of human serum, according
to the analysis of Dr. Marcet, are—
Water,.................................................. 900*
Albumen,............................................ 86*8
Muriates of potass and soda,............ 6*6
Muco-extractive matter,................... 4*
Subcarbonate of soda,..................... . 1*65
Sulphate of potass,.............................. *35
Earthy phosphates,... ..................... *6
1000*
(406.) This analysis coincides very nearly with that of
Berzelius!whoconsiders the substance termed by Dr.Marcet
muco-extractive matter to be impure lactate of soda. But
Dr. Bostock is led by his experiments to the conclusion, that
a peculiar animal substance exists in the serosity, not co-
agulable by heat, or by any other means; not affected by
corrosive sublimate, or by tannin, which are the appropriate
3 66 PHYSIOLOGY.
tests of albumen and ofjelly respectively, but copiously pre­
cipitated by muriate of tin, and still more readily by the ace­
tate of lead; and he thinks this substance is quite independ­
ent of the lactate of soda, which may exist at the same time
in the blood.
(407.) Wienholt discovered that the serosity contained
a small quantity of the peculiar substance which exists in
greatest abundance in the flesh of animals, and was first no­
ticed as a distinct proximate principle by Rouelle. It was
subsequently termed ozmazome by Thenard, who examined
its properties more minutely. This substance is of a yel­
lowish brown colour; it is soluble both in water and in al­
cohol, and is precipitated by infusion of nutgalls, nitrate of
mercury, and by the acetate and nitrate of lead. It is still
a matter of uncertainty what connexion exists between this
substance and the muco-extractive matter above mentioned.
There is also another proximate principle, namely, urea, of
which we shall afterwards have occasion to speak, which is
found in small quantity in the blood, when that fluid is in its
natural state, but which is abundantly found in the blood
of animals from which the kidneys have been removed. Be­
sides these, Dr. B. Babington discovered the presence in
the blood of an oily substance, separable from the other parts
by means of ether. Lecanu, in addition to this oily mat­
ter, found a crystallizable fatty matter in the blood; and
similar observations have been made by Chevreul. Manga­
nese is said to have been detected in the blood by Wurzer.
M. Boudet has also lately discovered a new substance in the
serum, which he has termed uroline. This is a white, slight­
ly opalescent substance, fusible at 94° Fahrenheit, not form­
ing an emulsion with water, soluble in alcohol, not saponi­
fiable, and apparently containing nitrogen.
I
CIRCULATION OP THE BLOOD. 367
C H A P T E R VII.
CIRCULATION.
SECT. I.— A PPA RA TU S FO R CIRCULATION.
(408.) The object of the function of circulation is two­
fold. The first is to distribute to all the organs that due
share of nutritive fluid which they require for the perform­
ance of their respective offices, for the maintenance of their
temperature, and for nutrition, and to keep up a constant
supply of this fluid. The second, and no less importantob­
ject, is to expose every portion in succession of this fluid,
which is the blood, to the influence of atmospheric air in an
orgsfn appropriated to this particular purpose; the continual
renewal of the action of the oxygen contained in the air
upon the blood, being necessary for the maintenance of its
salutary qualities, and indispensable to the preservation of
life. The organs in which this process is carried on are the
lungs ; and the function by which it is accomplished is re-
spiration. The great agent for the distribution of the blood
both generally to the organs of the body, and specially to
the lungs, is the heart; the pipes through which it is con­
veyed to those parts are the arteries ; those through which
it is brought back to the heart, the veins, A set of finer
vessels interposed between the minute extremities of the
arteries, and the minute beginnings of the veins, are called
3 6 8 PHYSIOLOGY*
the capillaries. The structure and distribution of all these
parts, have already been described in the treatise on Ana­
tomy, to which we of course refer for the descriptive de­
tails. The following brief recapitulation, however, of the
structure of the heart will assist us in understanding the
physiology of its action.
1. Cardiac Apparatus.
(409.) The heart is a hollow muscle, of a conical shape,
occupying the central and inferior part of the cavity of the
thorax, having its basis turned towards the right side, and
its point or apex towards the left, nearly opposite to the
space between the sixth and seventh ribs. Its lower sur­
face is somewhat flattened, where it lies upon the diaph­
ragm. Its basis, with which the peat vessels are connect­
ed, is covered with fat. The whole heart, and the roots of
the large blood-vessels at its basis, are protected by a gene­
ral investment of membrane, which is a reflected produc­
tion of an extended serous membrane, forming a cavity for
its reception, and for allowing it considerable freedom of
motion. Thismembrane,whichis remarkablefor its strength,
is called the pericardium, and is situated between the lami­
nae of the mediastinum, which are separated in order to
contain it.
(410.) The heart is principally made up of muscular
fibres, the course of which is extremely complex; some ex­
tending longitudinally from the basis to the apex, others
taking an oblique or spiral course; and a third running in
a more transverse direction. There are two considerable
cavities, called ventricles, distinguished, according to their
situation, into the right and left ventricle. The formerhas
also been called, in reference to its functions, the pulmonic,
CIRCULATION OF THB BLOOD. 3 6 9
and the latter the systemic ventricle. They are separated
by a strong and thick partition, called the septum ventricu-
lorum, which is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres.
Attached to these, at the basis of the heart, are two hollow
and fleshy projecting appendages, called the auricles, the
cavities of which are also separated from each other by a
partition, distinguished by the name ofseptum auriculorum,
and they open into those of the ventricles. The right au­
ricle, which, together with the right ventricle, is placed
more in front, receives the blood from the venae cavse, and
transmits it to the right ventricle, by which it is propelled
into the trunk of the pulmonary artery. The left auricle,
in like manner, collects the blood from the four trunks of
the pulmonary veins, and transfers it into the left ventricle,
by which it is forcibly driven into the aorta, or main trunk
of the arterial system of the body at large. The membrane
which lines the cavities of the heart, and the great vessels
just mentioned, is produced so as to form valves at the two
orifices of both the ventricles; that is, where the auricles
open into them, and also at the origin of the arterial trunks
which arise from the ventricles. The valves placed between
the right auricle and ventricle, are usually three in number,
and are called valvules tricuspides ; but in the left ventricle
there are only two, andthese are namedthe valvules m itrales.
The membranes which form these valves are attached so
as to project somewhat forward in each of these cavities,
and are connected with tendinous strings, called chordes
tendinees, which arise from detached and projectingportions
of the muscular substance of the heart, named from their
cylindrical form, cameos columnce.
(411.) The valves at the origin both of the pulmonary
artery and of the aorta, are three in number, and are called
3 7 0 MTFSIOLOGT.
the valvules semilUnares,' from their semicircular figure;
their convexities are turtied towards the ventricle; they are
concave next to the cavity the artery; and in the middle
oftheir loose edge is found'a small hard triangular substance
balled corpus aurantianum, and sometimes corpusculum
M orgagni, or sesamoideum. When these valves are made
to approach each other, by the pressure of the blood in the
artery in the direction of the ventricle, they unite so as
completely to close the passage, and prevent any of the
blood from returning. Opposite to the semilunar valves,
the artery bulges out and forms three projections, which
have corresponding pits or depressions within, and are call­
ed, from their discoverer, sinus Valsalva.
(412.) Where the two venae cavae meet, there is a small
angular projection, which.has bqen called the tuberculum
Loweri. The term auricula mdre properly applies to the
jagged portionswhichprojectfromthe sidesofthe base ofthe
heart, like the ears ofa dog from its head; whilst the expand­
ed cavity where the venous tubes enter is called the sinus
venosus. On the side next to the auricula, there is a re­
markable semilunar fold, projecting within the cavity, be­
tween the vein and auricle,so as to beconvexnextto thevein,
and concave next to the auricle. This doubling has been
called the Eustachian valve. Between the concave part of
this fold, and the opening into the ventricle, is the orifice
of the coronary vein, which returns the blood that has cir­
culated through the substance of the heart itself, and which
is provided, at this point, with its proper valves. In the
septum auriculorum is seen a depression, thefossa ovalis9
which is the remains of a passage of communication be­
tween the right and left auricles that had existed in the foetal
state. The sides of the fossa ovalis are strong and thick,
and have received the name of isthmus Vicussenii, or colum­
n s, or annulusfosses ovalis.
2. Sanguiferous System in general.
(413.) The blood-vessels, consisting ofarteries, veins, and
capillaries, compose by their assemblage what is termed the
sanguiferous system ; and the channels which they form
for the transmission of the blood constitute a double cir­
cuit. The principal circuit consists of that through which
the blood is distributed to all parts of the body indiscrimi­
nately, and which includes therefore the whole system. But
there is also another circuit of lesser extent, which is per­
formed by the blood, by its being sent from the heart to the
lungs, and again returned to the heart, after circulating
through those organs. This is termed the lesser circulation,
by way of contrast with the circulation through all the rest
of the body, which constitutes the greater circulation. For
effecting this lesser circulation, a distinct set of blood-ves­
sels, namely, the pulmonary vessels, is provided.
(414.) Thus, there are two separate systems of blood­
vessels, which have np communication with each other, ex­
cept through the medium of the heart, which is the com­
mon origin and termination of both. The aortic system, or,
as some modern anatomists have chosen to designate it, the
systemic system, is that which, taking its rise from the left
ventricle of the heart, begins with the aorta, or main trunk
of the arteries which transmit the blood to the body at large,
and is completed by the veins which are collected into two
trunks, called vena cavce ; which trunks, again, terminate
in the right auricle of the heart. The pulmonary system,
on the other hand, comprises the pulmonary arteries, which
arise by a single trunk from the right ventricle of the heart.
CIRCULATION OP THE *BLOOD. 371
3 7 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
and after circulating the blood through the lungs, are con*
tinued into the pulmonary veins, and terminate by ibur large
trunks in the left auricle of the heart
(415.) All these vessels, whether arteries or veins, may
be comprehended under the following general description.
They are flexible and elastic tubes, for the most part of a
cylindrical shape, and composed principally of a membra­
nous or fibrous structure formed into distinct layers, and
composing what are called the coats of these vessels. The
number of these coats has been differently estimated by dif­
ferent anatomists; but it is now generally agreed that those
proper to the vessels themselves are principally three : the
external, the intem alf and the middle, or what has been
called the muscular coat. Besides these tunics, each ves­
sel is surrounded by aloose and ft ipculent cellular substance,
which connects it with the parts through which it passes,
and accompanies it in its whole course; but this substance,
being merely a continuation of the cellular substance which
fills up all the vacuities of the body, is common to the ves­
sel and to other parts, ought not properly to be considered
as belonging to the former, but as adventitious; although
some anatomists have dignified it with the title of the ceU
lular coat.
(416.) The first proper coat of the vessel is the external
coat, which is thicker than the rest, and formed of a mem­
branous structure, in which are intermixed a few filaments
of fibro-cellular substance, disposed obliquely with respect
to the course of the vessel, and interwoven with the mem­
branous fibres. The innermost membrane is thinner than
the former, of a whiter colour, more or less pellucid, and
presenting a more uniform homogeneous structure. Its
inner surface is perfectly smooth, and much resembles in ap­
CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD* 3 7 3
pearance the serous membranes. Between these membra­
nous coats, there exists a layer of fibres, which have been
generally supposed to be muscular, constituting what has
been accordingly called the muscular coat. Compared with
the diameters of the vessels, these coats are proportionably
thicker in the smaller than in the larger vessels.
(417.) After giving this general description of the struc­
ture of the blood-vessels, we proceed to notice some of the
peculiarities which distinguish each class of blood-vessels.
3. A rterial System.
(418.) Each of the great arterial trunks, belonging re­
spectively to the aortic, and to the pulmonic systems, are
furnished, at their origin from the ventricles of the heart,
with valves of a semilunar shape, adhering by one of their
sides to the margin ofthe aperture ofthe ventricle, or mouth
of the artery, and having their loose edges turned towards
the axis of the artery. These valves are formed by a du-
plicature of the internal coat, which contains between their
folds a thin layer of ligamentous fibres, giving them consi­
derable strength. No valves are found in any other part of
the arterial system.
(419.) The external coat of an artery is formed by a
dense tissue of fibres, which are interwoven together in dif­
ferent directions, generally very obliquely with regard to the
length of the vessel. This texture becomes more compact
as we trace it towards the interior, so that the individual
fibres can with difficulty be distinguished, unless by a forci­
ble tearing asunder of the substance they compose. Hence
the older anatomists have distinguished this inner layer of
the external coat, as forming a separate tunic, to which they
have given the name of the nervous coat9implying thereby
374 PHYSIOLOGY.
a participation in the structure of tendons which were not
at that time distinguished from nerves. The division of the
external coat into these two layers, is well marked in the
larger arteries; but in proportion as we examine the smaller
branches, we find a more uniform appearance, the whole as­
suming the firm and compact texture of fibrous membranes.
This portion of the arterial structure is exceedingly strong
and elastic, both with respect to a force stretching it in the
direction of its length, and also transversely, or in that of
its diameter. Its toughness is such that it is not easily cut
asunder by a thread employed as a ligature upon the vessel.
(420.) The intermediate, or muscular membrane, is of
considerable thickness, has a yellow colour, and is composed
of fibres, all of which are arranged circularly; that is, in the
circumference of the cylinder. In the large arterial trunks,
these fibres form a distinct layer >r tunic; but the mem­
brane acquires a still greater proportional thickness in the
smaller branches, and then admits of subdivision, by dissec­
tion, into several layers. The exterior layers are less dense
than the interior; and those which are innermost are the
densest of all. The elasticity and firmness of this coat is
chiefly in the direction of the circular fibres of which it con­
sists ; so that it opposes considerable resistance to any force
which tends to dilate the vessel, but yields readily to any
power applied for its elongation. It may be considered as
partaking of the properties of muscular and ligamentous
structures.
(421.) The internal membrane of arteries, which has also
been called the nervous, arachnoid\ or common coat, is the
thinnest of the three; although still, in the larger arteries,
it admits of division into two or more layers. The inner­
most of these is extremely thin and transparent, and its sw>
CIBCtJLATION OF THE BLOOD. 375
face is smooth and highly polished, in order that no resist­
ance may be opposed to the motion of the blood. The
outer portions are white and opaque, and pass gradually in­
to the substance of the muscular tunic with which it is con­
nected. Its elasticity is very small, and its power ofresist­
ance is limited, so that a ligature applied on the vessel ge­
nerally produces a laceration of the internal coat.
(422.) The general form of the arterial system, if it were
isolated from all other parts, would resemble two trees, the
trunks of which would be constituted by the aorta, and by
the pulmonary artery, and which divides and subdivides suc­
cessively into smaller and smaller branches, till they arrive
at an extreme degree of tenuity. Each portion which in­
tervenes between these divisions preserves the same uni­
form diameter, and is therefore exactly cylindrical. Each
branch is of course smaller than the trunk from which it
arises; but the sum of the areas of all the branches into
which an artery divides itself, is in general greater than the
area of that artery ; and consequently the total capacity of
the arterial system is progressively increasing in proportion
to the number of subdivisions which take place* Hence the
whole system may in reality be considered as composing a
conical cavity, of which the aorta is the apex, and the ul­
timate subdivisions the base. The number of subdivi­
sions in the whole course of an artery scarcely ever exceeds
twenty, according to the estimate of Haller, who took pains
to ascertain this point. The most usual mode of ramifica­
tion is that of bifurcation, or division of a trunk into two
branches, which generally form between them an acute
angle. In some instances, especially among the larger ar­
teries, we meet with a branch sent off at right angles from
the main trunk, or still more rarely at an obtuse angle*
376 PHYOTOLOGY•
(423.) Arteries have numerous communications among
their different branches. These communications, or anasto-
moses, as they are called, are effected sometimes by the re*
union of two arteries of nearly equal size, which happen to
be proceeding in similar directions, so as to compose one
common trunk, which proceeds in an intermediate direction,
sometimes by collateral branches proceeding obliquely from
the one to the other; while on other occasions, arteries
unite from greater distances, so as to form a wide arch, in
which each appearsto be continuousone with the other; and
from the convex side of which, branches are again sent off,
which are distributed in minuter ramifications. In some
parts the anastomoses are so frequent and numerous, as to
resemble a net-work, or plexus of vessels. ,
(424.) The principal arteries of the limbs are generally
found running in situations where they are best protected
from injury, and where they are most secure from pressure
during the actions of the muscles. Hence they are chiefly
met with in the hollow spaces formed on the inner side of
the flexures of the joints.
4. Venous System.
(425.) The chief peculiarities in the structure of the
veins, as distinguished from that of the arteries, consist in
the greater thinness, and diminished density of their coats,
the tenuity or absence of the muscular tunic, and the nu­
merous valves which occur in different parts oftheir course.
The outer coat resembles that of the arteries, but does not
present so dense or so fine a texture of fibres; and it pos­
sesses less absolute strength. The middle coat is formedof
fibres which are more extensile and flexible than those of
arteries; and their direction, instead ofbeing transverse, is
CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. 377
principally longitudinal. These fibres are not constantly
met with in all the parts of the venous system, but vary
much in their proportion to the rest of the structure in dif­
ferent veins, as well as in their directions and thickness. It
is only in the large veins, near the heart, that this coat pre­
sents any appearance of muscular fibres* The inner coat
is thin and transparent, like that of the arteries; but dif­
fers from,the latter in being more extensible, less easily
torn, and in its containing a certain proportion of ligamen­
tous fibres in its composition. Some of the veins, such as
those within the cranium, which are called sinuses, as well
as the veins which traverse the bones, being protected by
the surrounding parts, appear to consist altogether of this
inner coat, and,are unprovided with either the muscular or
the cellular coats.
(426.) The large veins follow in general the course of
the arteries, but are usually twice as numerous; so that
where we meet with an artery, we generally find it accom­
panied by two veins. Their general disposition is arbor­
escent, like the arterial system; but with reference to the
function they perform, they may be more aptly compared
to the roots than to the branches ofa tree; for in following
the course of die blood in its circulation, they may be said
to take their rise from the minutest vessels, and successive­
ly uniting into larger and larger tubes, to terminate by one
or two main trunks in the heart. The total capacity ofthe
venous system is at least twice as great as that of the arte­
rial system. The distribution and general mode of ramifi­
cation of the veins, correspond very exacdy to that of the
arteries, presenting the same ramified appearance, and the
same frequent anastomoses. These collateral communica­
tions are exceedingly numerous in the superficial veins, and
3 7 8 PHYSIOLOGY.
wherever they are liable to partial obstruction from exter­
nal pressure. It is in these situations also, that we meet
with a great number of valves in the course of the veins.
The veins of the deep-seated organs are generally unpro­
vided with valves in any part of their course. The arte­
ries, as we have already seen, have no valves except at their
commencement.
(427.) Besides the two venous systems appropriated to
the greater and lesser circulations, the former uniting in the
venae cavae, and the latter in the pulmonary veins, and there­
fore corresponding to the two arterial systems, there is also
another, and more partial system of veins, peculiar to the
circulation in the liver, and other viscera of the abdomen.
This particular system, which is that of the vena portce, as
it is called, is complete within itself that is, it constitutes
a tree, having a common stem, with its proper roots and
branches, the whole of which is placed as an intermediate
system between the ultimate branches of the gastric, intes­
tinal, and splenic arteries, of which the roots of the vena
portae may be considered as the continuations, and first ra­
dicles of the proper hepatic veins, which are the continua­
tions of the ultimate ramifications of the vena portae. By
this arrangement, the blood which has circulated through
the stomach, the intestines, and the spleen, is distributed
by a new set of veins, throughout the substance of the liver,
and is returned to the general mass of blood in the venae
cavae, after circulating through that organ.
To this peculiar venous system there is no corresponding
arterial system.
5. C apillary System.
(428.) The ultimate ramifications of the arteries, as well
CIRCULATION OP THE BLOOD. 3 7 9
as’the beginnings of the veins, are, in almost every part of
the body, vessels of such extreme tenuity, as to be imper­
ceptible without the assistance of the microscope ; and they
cannot even then be discerned, unless the part be artifici­
ally prepared by the injection of some coloured substance
into the vessels, or unless they have been accidentally en­
larged by disease, so as to have received the colouring mat­
ter of the blood. Hence the ancients, who were ignorant
both of the art of injecting, and of the power of the micro­
scope, were precluded from a knowledge of the existence
of these minute vessels. They believed that a substance,
which they termed parenchyma,, and which they conceived
to be of a spongy texture, was interposed between the ter­
minal branches of the arteries, and the beginning of the
veins; and this opinion was adopted almost universally by
anatomists before the epoch of the discovery of the circula­
tion, and was entertained even after this period, by a great
number of eminent anatomists, down to the present day.
But the injections of Ent, and the microscopical observa­
tions of Malpighi and of Leewenhoek, have sufficiently de­
monstrated the continuity of the canals by which the blood
is made to pass from the arteries into the veins. The re­
searches ofmodem anatomists, indeed, by shewing the ama­
zing extent to which the minute division of the vascular
system is carried, and in which they pervade every part
of the frame, have finally exploded the hypothesis of the
existence of interposed parenchyma, and have given rise to
another hypothesis of an opposite kind, namely, of all the
textures ofthe body being ultimately resolvable into vessels.
(429.) The name of capillary vessels is given to those
minute branches of either arteries or veins, whose diameter
is finer than a hair, and which can therefore scarcely be dis­
3 8 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
tinguished by the unassisted eye. Authors have endea­
voured to establish three gradations of size in this class of
vessels; the largest being those which can be but just per­
ceived by the eye without a magnifying glass; the next,
those which require the aid of the microscope for their de­
tection ; and the third, those which are capable ofadmitting
only a single red globule of blood, and of which the calibre
must consequently be only a very little larger than these
globules.
(430.) The larger capillaries undergo several subdivisions
in their course, before they arrive at this extreme degree of
tenuity; and indeed, their lateral branches of communica­
tion are so multiplied as they proceed, that the whole forms
a general and extensive net-work of vessels. The total ca­
pacity of the capillary system far surpasses that of the ar­
teries and veins; and they contain therefore by much the
greatest portion of the blood in the natural and healthy
state of the circulation.
(431.) The vascular branches which form the channels
of communication between the arteries and the veins, are,
with but very few exceptions, referable to the class of ca­
pillary vessels. In this continuous course it is scarcely pos­
sible to mark with precision, at what point the arterial por­
tion may be said to terminate, and the venous portion to
commence. Neither the limit of size, nor the change of
direction, is sufficient to lay the foundations of such a dis­
tinction ; for the alteration of diameter is gradual, and the
inflexions are various, and frequently tortuous, so that no
determinate criterion can be assumed as characteristic of
either artery or vein. Hence arises the propriety of con­
stituting a distinct class of capillary vessels.
(432.) The texture of the capillaries, from the minute­
CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD* 381
ness of their size, scarcely admits of accurate observation*
Their coats are thin, soft, pellucid, and therefore invisible
to the naked eye, and hardly discernible with the micro­
scope. It is most probable that they are formed, in every
instance, by a prolongation ofthe internal coats ofthe larger
arteries and veins with which they are continuous.
(433.) As the capability ofadmitting coloured substances
is apparently an indispensable condition for their being vi­
sible, the existence of vessels of still smaller diameter, con­
taining only colourless fluids, must more or less be matter
of conjecture. A very great number of anatomists and
physiologists, however, among whom may be enumerated
Boerhaave, Vieussens, Farrienus, Haller, Soemmerring, Bi­
chat, Bleuland, Chaussier, have admitted the existence of
another order of capillaries, or serous vessels, as they have
termed them, of which the diameter is too small to admit
even a single red globule, and which therefore circulate only
the serous part of the blood. On the other hand, the re­
ality of these pretended vessels is contested by Prochaska,
Mascagni, Richerand, and others. Bedard, in his Anato-
mie Generate, has given a review of the arguments employ­
ed on both sides in this controversy, which is by no means
as yet set at rest, and which will probably have to be de­
cided, more by considerations of a physiological than ofan
anatomical nature.
(434.) In speaking ofthe communications betweenthe ar­
teriesandthe veins,itremains only tobe noticed, that inmany
parts of the body there appears to be interposed between the
extreme branches ofeach,a spongyor cellular structure, into
which the arteries occasionally pour out blood, so as to dis­
tend these cells, and from which the veins arise by open
orifices, and absorb the blood, in order to unload the cells,
3 82 PHYSIOLOGY.
and remove the accumulation which has taken place. Such
a structure has been denominated the erectile tissue. It is
exemplified on a large scale, in the spleen, and in some of
the sexual organs. Weshall notice this structureafterwards.
(435.) The different parts and textures of the body are
supplied with vessels in very different proportions. The
organ which ranks first in respect to its vascularity, is the
lungs; after which come the integuments, the pia mater,
and choroid coat of the eye; next the glands, the glandu­
lar follicles, the lymphatic glands, the cortical substance of
the brain, the nervous ganglions. To these will succeed in
the order of vascularity, the muscles, the periosteum, the
adipose tissue, the medullary nervous substance, the bones,
and the serous membranes. The tendons and ligaments are
amongst the least vascular parts, i till less so are the carti­
lages, and the arachnoid membrane of the brain ; and lastly,
the epidermis, and its appendages, as the nails and hair, to­
gether with the enamel of the teeth, may be considered as
parts entirely devoid of vessels.
(436.) The actual massof bloodwhichtheorgansofthe cir­
culationhavetomovethrough thechannelswehave justpoint­
ed out has been variously estimated by different physiolo­
gists. The lowest computation is that of Muller and Abeild-
gaard, who made it put to be only eight pounds. Borelli
estimated it at twenty pounds; Planche at twenty-eight;
Haller at thirty ; Dr. Young at forty; Hamberger at eighty;
and Keill at one hundred. Blumenbach states the propor­
tion in an adult healthy man to be one-fifth of the entire
weight of the body; but Dr. Good, who has collected these
authorities, is disposed to place but little reliance on the
latter mode of estimation, on account of the great diversity
in point of weight andbulk ofadults, whose aggregate quan­
PHENOMENA OP THE CIRCULATION, 383
tity of blood would appear to be nearly the same. He thinks
the mean of the above numbers, which is between thirty
andforty pounds, may safely be taken as nearest to the truth.
The proportion of the whole mass of blood which is contain­
ed in different parts of the vascular system, varies accord­
ing to age. In early life, there is nearly an equal quantity
contained in the arteries as in the veins. In the adult, one-
fourth only is contained in the arterial, and three-fourths in
the venous system ; and the disproportion is greater as age
advances.
SECT. II.— PHENOMENA OP THE CIRCULATION.
1. Course o f the M ood in its Circulation*
(437.) Having premised this general outline of the course
which the blood takes during its circulation, we shall now
follow the several steps more in detail, examining, as we
proceed, the evidence afforded us that such is its real course;
and we shall lastly inquire into the several powers concern­
ed in its propulsion'.
(438.) We shall, for this purpose, begin at that part of
its circuit at which the blood is brought back from the lungs,
after receiving the vivifying influence of the air, and being
thereby arterialized, as it has been called. The pulmonary
veins, which convey it in this state to the heart, are collect­
ed into four great trunks, which open into the left auricle
of the heart. As soon as the auricle is distended beyond a
certain degree by this flow of blood into it, it contracts and
pours the whole of its contents at once into the left ventri­
cle. The constant stream of blood which is flowing towards
the auricle from the lungs, prevents any portion of the blood
of tbe auricle from flowing back into them when the auricle
contracts. No sooner has the ventricle received this blood,
3 8 4 PHY8IOLOGY.
which has passed into it by a sudden influx, than it is sti­
mulated to a vigorous contraction of its muscular fibres,
which, surrounding the cavity in a spiral direction, contract
its cavity, and, exerting a powerful pressure on the contain­
ed fluid, propels it with prodigiousforce into the aorta. The
contraction of the ventricle is attended with the raising of
the mitral valve, interposed between it and the auricle, and
the sides of that valve being closely applied to the aperture
by which the blood had entered the ventricle, all return of
the blood into the auricle is thereby prevented. The whole
of it rushes, therefore, as an impetuous torrent into the aorta,
or main trunk ofthe arterial system. The blood which has
entered the artery is again prevented from flowing back into
the ventricle, by a valvular apparatus of the same kind as
that which occurs between the auricle and the ventricle.
These valves, placed at the entrance of the aorta, are call­
ed the sigmoid, or semilunar valves. They are three in
number, each being attached by its convex edge to the
coats of the artery, to which it is closely applied when the
stream of blood is flowing in a direction from the heart, but
which is immediately raised, and the three loose edgesjoin­
ing together, form a complete barrier to the passage of the
blood when moving in the contrary direction.
(439*) The blood, having passed into the aorta, is con­
veyed through its branches andramifications to all the parts
where these ramifications extend, till it reaches the capilla­
ries, where it moves more slowly, yet still proceeds on its
course* supplying every part with the materials necessary
for the maintenance of their nutrition and vital powers.
From the capillaries the blood is brought back by the mi­
nuter branches of the veins, which, uniting successively
to form larger and larger trunks, are at length collected
PHENOMENA OF THE CIRCULATION. 3 8 5
into the two veiue cave, the one descending from the head
and superior parts of the body, and the other ascending from
the inferior parts, and both joining at the right auricle of the
heart. The same process now takes place in the right ca­
vities of the heart, which was described as occurring in the
left. The right auricle is filled with blood from the venae
cavae; it contracts and pours its contents into the cavity of
the right ventricle, which, being in its turn stimulated to
contract, propels the blood it had received from the auricle
into the trunk of the pulmonary artery; which artery like­
wise distributes it, by a similar system of ramifications, to
the membrane lining the air vesicles of the lungs. All re­
trograde motion of the blood is prevented as effectually in
this case as in the former, by the interposition of the tri­
cuspid valves between the auricle and ventricle, and by the
semilunar valves placed at the entrance of the pulmonary
artery.
(440.) From the ultimate ramifications of the pulmonary
arterythe blood isconducted into the capillary vessels, which
are spread over the membrane of the air-cells of the lungs,
where it undergoes the change of quality from venous to
arterial, consequent upon its exposure to the chemical ac­
tion of the oxygen which is contained in the atmospheric
air admitted into those cells. From these capillaries it is
collected by the pulmonary veins, and returned, as before
stated, to the heart, to be again distributed to every part of
the body.
(441.) While one portion of the blood is circulating in
the system, another portion is circulating in the lungs. Both
auricles ore filled at the same moment, and contract toge­
ther; each sending its blood into the corresponding ventri­
cle. In like manner, the two ventricles contract simulta­
386 PHYSIOLOGY.
neously, and propel their contents into their respective ar­
terial trunks. The contraction of the heart is called the
systole ; its relaxation the diastole.
2. Proofs o f the Circulation.
(442.) The discovery of the course which the blood takes
in its circulation, a discovery of such vast magnitude, that
almost the whole of the present doctrines of physiology and
pathology are either directly founded on it, or are more or
less immediately related to it, was made in the beginning of
the seventeenth century* It was one of the earliest fruits
ofthat active spirit of inquiry, and rational process of inves­
tigation, which, since the era of Bacon, was beginning to
diffuse itself in Europe. It was an honour reserved for our
illustrious countryman Harvey, whose fame must live as
long as science is cherished among men. While it is the
fate of other discoveries, that their authors are either soon
forgotten, or only known to a small class of those who de­
vote their attention peculiarly to the subject to which they
relate, the name of H a r v e y is become familiar to all who
have any acquaintance with general literature, or pretensions
to a liberal education. However firmly the truth of his
great discovery be established in the present time, it was,
in its first promulgation, keenly contested by many contem­
porary physiologists. To us who have no such prejudices
to warp our judgment, and who are furnished with so large
a body of evidence on the subject, the controversy appears
exceedingly frivolous and absurd. Yet we must recollect
that in every subject ofhuman opinion, it requires a consi­
derable time to wean mankind from errors which have been
long and deeply rooted in their minds, however palpable
such errors may appear td the eyes of those who have not
been so blinded. As it may still, however, be satisfactory
to know the grounds upon which the doctrine is founded,
we shall briefly enumerate the leading facts and arguments
that establish it.
(443.) The most striking proofs that the course of the
blood along the arteries is from the heart towards the extre­
mities of those vessels, and along the veins in the contrary
direction, are obtained from ligatures on those vessels. If
any of the larger arterial branches be tied, that portion of
the vessel which is situated between the ligature and the
heart, immediately swells, becomes distended with blood,
and exhibits strong pulsations; and if while in this state
it be punctured, the blood rushes out with violence, and
in successive jets, corresponding to the pulsations of the
heart. The part beyond the ligature, on the other hand,
or that farthest from the heart, is flaccid and empty, and af­
fords no blood when divided; it is also void of pulsation.
Phenomena precisely the reverse of these are exhibit­
ed when similar experiments are made on the veins; in
them, the part most distant from the heart becomes turgid,
while the nearer part is empty. This last experiment is one
that is made every time a person undergoes the operation
of blood-letting. A ligature is applied round the arm, from
the pressure of which on the subcutaneous veins, they are
made to swell every where below the ligature, that is, far­
ther from the heart; while all the veins above the ligature
are empty, the blood having been propelled onwards in its
course towards the heart Those parts which are swelled
pour out their blood profusely on being punctured; and
when the bandage is removed, the flow is stopped, in con­
sequence of the blood Ending a ready passage to the heart.
(444.) In the veins, we have additional evidence, from
PHENOMENA OP THE CIRCULATION. 3 8 7
3 88 PHYSIOLOGY*
the structure of the valves, that the blood can move only in
one direction, namely, towards the heart. The valves at
the entrance of the ventricles and arterial trunks, which al­
low of motion only in a particular course, lead to a similar
conclusion with respect to the direction of the current in its
passage through the heart. It is impossible by artificial
means to force fluid injections through the heart, in a course
contrary to that in which the blood moves; and the same
insuperable resistance is experienced in the attempt to pass
injections in other parts of the circulating system, when in
opposition to the natural course taken by the blood, while
the same fluids readily find their way from the arteries into
the veins, when thrown in that direction.
(445.) Ocular demonstration of the course of the blood
while circulating in the smallerarterial and venousbranches,
and also in the capillaries, is afforded by the microscope,
when a very thin and transparent membrane in which such
vessels are distributed is placed in the field ofa good micros­
cope. The web between the toes of a frog, the surface of
its vesicular lungs, the mesentery, the membrane in the tail
of small fishes, are all of them capable of exhibiting these
phenomena, and present, indeed, a spectacle of the highest
interest.
(446.) The successive action of the cavities of the heart,
in the order above enumerated, may also be seen when the
hearts ofliving creatures areexposed to view $and this spec*
tacle may be afforded without pain to the animal, if, after
its head has been completely separated from the body, re­
spiration be kept up by artificial means.
(447.) The transfusion of the blood of one animal into
the vessels of another is a curious illustration ofthe doctrine
of the circulation. In this operation, the artery of one ani­
mal is connected by a tube with the vein of another ani­
mal ; the consequence of which is that the first is gradually
emptied of its blood, while the vessels of the other are in a
state of repletion. If an opening be made at the same time
in the veins of this second animal, the blood originally be­
longing to it will escape, and thus the whole massofits circu­
lating fluid will be changed. Experiments of this kind were
at one time very common, but they have long ceased to ex­
cite curiosity, and are now rarely practised.
That the blood moves with great rapidity and force
through the larger vessels, is provedby the immense quantity
that is quickly lost if any great artery or vein be wounded.
SECT. III.— POWERS CONCERNED IN THE CIRCULATION.
(448.) We have next to enquire into the nature and
magnitude of the forces by which the blood is impelled in
its course, the resistance opposed to its progress, and the
general laws by which its movements are regulated.
(449*) The subject will naturally divide itself into four
parts; namely, as relating to the powers ofthe heart, ofthe
arteries, of the capillaries, and of the veins.
1.Action ofthe Heart*
(450.) The intention and purpose of the auricles, which
are placed as ante-chambers to the ventricles, is to receive
the blood in a constant stream from the veins, which fill it
gradually and equably, so that when the distension has
reached a certain degree, the auricle may contract and dis­
charge the whole of its contents, with a sudden impetus, in­
to the ventricle. The thickness and muscular force of the
auricles are very inferior to those of the ventricles, which
being destined to propel the blood with considerable mo-
s
POWERS CONCERNED IN THE CIRCULATION. 3 8 9
3 9 0 PHYSIOLOGY.
raentum into the arterial system, are exceedingly powerful,
but seem to require the stimulus of a sudden and forci­
ble distension, in order to excite them to a sufficiently en­
ergetic action. It appears, indeed, that this mechanical dis­
tension and separation of their sides from the influx of fluid,
is the natural stimulus that excites them to contraction ; for
they are not affected by any of the causes which produce
contractions in the voluntary muscles, such as irritation of
the nerves which supply the heart. On the other hand,
the mere introduction of warm water into these cavities,
when previously emptied of blood, is sufficient to renew the
action of the heart.
(451.) It is exceedingly diHcult to form any probable
estimate of the absolute force exerted by the heart, and
more particularly by the left ventricle, in propelling its con­
tents. No inquiry in physiology was pursued with more ar­
dour, has been the subject of more various controversy, or
lias given rise to so many voluminous and elaborate calcu­
lations.
(452.) It will be quite evident that a very considerable
power is required, in order to enable the heart to propel the
blood through the arteries, when we consider the enormous
resistances opposed to its progress, and when we also take
into account the great velocity given to it in its motion.
The column of blood already contained in the arterial sys­
tem, must have its velocity accelerated, in order to admit of
the passage of fresh blood into the aorta. The arteries re­
quire also to be distended for the admission of this addi­
tional quantity ofblood, every time that the ventricle con­
tracts. The angles and flexures which the blood is obliged
to follow in its course through the vessels, must be causes
of retardation, and must be productive of a loss of force,
which the muscular power of the heart is ultimately called
upon to supply. The operation of all these retarding causes
is so complicated, that we need not be surprised at the
problem ofthe force exerted by the heart, having baffledthe
skill of the best mathematicians, and their calculations be­
ing so widely different from one another. Thus, while
Keil estimated the power of the left ventricle at only five
ounces, Borelli calculated that its force could not be less
than one hundred and eighty thousand pounds. Dr. Hales
computes it to be exactly fifty-one pounds and a half;
while Tabor concludes its amount to be one hundred and
fifty pounds. Such irreconcilable results sufficiently show
the futility of most of the reasonings on which they are
founded, and the impossibility of making any satisfactory
approach towards the solution of the problem. We should,
on the whole, be more disposed to place confidence in the
estimate of Hales, who moreover states, that the velocity
with which the blood passes into the aorta, is about one hun­
dred and fifty feet per minute, or two feet and a half per
second; and that the quantity of blood passing through the
heart during each hour, is about twenty times the whole
mass of blood contained in the body; or, in other words,
that the whole mass completes twenty entire circulations in
an hour. The great velocity of the blood in the vessels is
exemplified by the fact, that a fluid introduced into one of
the jugular veins of a horse, has been detected in the oppo­
site vein, and even in the vena saphena of the leg, in the
course of half a minute.
(453.) It has been keenly disputed whether the heart is
able completely to empty its cavities at each contraction *
,
and the question, which is not one of any real importance,
is hardly yet decided.
POWERS CONCERNED IN THIS CIRCULATION. 391
3 9 2 PHYSIOLOGY.
(454.) Another subject of controversy which was much
agitated among the French physiologists in the middle of
the last century, is, whether the heart is shortened or elon­
gated during its systole $ that is, whether the apex ap­
proaches the base during the contraction of the ventricle, or
recedes from it From the numerous observations of Spal­
lanzani, as well as of other experimentalists, there seems to
be no doubt that during the systole all the parts are brought
nearer to the tendinous ring surrounding the auriculo-ven-
tricular orifices, which may be regarded as the fixed pivot
of its movements, and consequently the length, as well
as the other diameters of the heart, is shortened. Du­
ring this action, however, the curvature being suddenly
straightened, the apex is projected forwards, and produces
that striking against the ribs which is felt by the hand ap­
plied externally to the chest.
(455.) The right ventricle having only to perform the
lighter task of circulating the blood through the lungs, is
much inferior in thickness and strength to the left ventri­
cle, which has to propel the blood through the whole aortic
system, forming a course of much greater magnitude than
that of the pulmonary vessels. But, on the other hand, the
capacities of the two ventricles are nearly equal, as might
be expected, when it is considered that the same quantity
of blood which is forced out from the on$ must, in the
course of circulation, pass through the other; and that both
the ventricles contract the same number of times in a given
interval. The quantity of blood expelled by the heart at
eachcontraction, is estimated byBlumenbach at two ounces.
So that, reckoning the whole mass of blood at thirty-five
pounds, or four hundred and twenty ounces, and the con­
tractions to be repeated seventy-five timesin a minute, the
whole of the blood will have passed through the heart in
about three minutes; thus agreeing very nearly with the
estimate of Hales already stated, (§ 452.)
(456.) It has been supposed that the heart exerts some
force in the diastole as well as systole; and that the recoil
of the muscles when they spring back, after they have per­
formed their contraction, creates a force of suction, which
promotes the flow of blood in the great veins towards the
heart. But the truth of this proposition is exceedingly du­
bious.
(457.) The movements of the heart are completely in­
voluntary ; that is, are entirely beyond the control of the
will. Nor are its natural actions accompanied by any sen­
sations. They are, generally speaking, totally independent
of the nervous system; for they may be maintained after
the destruction of the brain and spinal cord, and even after
all the nerves which supply the heart have been divided.
Yet these movements are capable of being influenced, often
very suddenly, by an impression made upon any consider­
able portion of the nervous system. The regular contrac­
tions of the heart appear to be excited simply by the sti­
mulus of distension from the periodical influx of blood into
its cavities. This organ is evidently endowed with a very
high degree, and a very peculiar kind of irritability, not
subject, like that of the voluntary muscles, to exhaustion,
by the most powerful exertions, reiterated for an indefinite
time.
TOWER8 CONCERNED IN THE CIRCULATION. 3 9 3
2. Actions o f the Arteries.
(458.) Whatever be the velocity with which the Wood
is projected from the heart into the aorta, that velocity is
soon retarded, in the course of its progress from the larger
3 9 4 PHYSIOLOGT.
to the mailer branches of that arterial trunk. This is am­
ply illustrated by the observation of the effects which follow
the division or wounds of arteries in different parts of their
course. A wound of the carotid artery is almost instantly
fetal, from the deluge of blood which rushes out from the
opening. The division of the other large arterial trunks is
no less certainly fatal, if means be not at hand to stop the
torrent that gushes out with resistless impetuosity. In the
smaller arteries, such as those in which the motion of the
blood can be viewed with the microscope, the current is
very languid and feeble. It is, in reality, however, much
slower than it appears to b e; for it should be recollected,
that in viewing the magnified image of an object, its motion
is magnified in the same proportion as its dimensions.
(459*) The cause of Jlis continual retardation of the
blood is to be traced in the structure of the arterial system
itself. The velocity of a fluid passing through a tube of
unequal diameterin differentparts, must be inversely as the
area of the tube at each respective point of its length; that
is, inversely as the square of the diameter. Accordingly,
if we suppose two cylinders of different diameters joined to­
gether, and that a fluid is passing from one end to the other,
it must evidently move with less velocity in the wider than
in the narrower part; for if it did not, it would leave be­
hind it a vacant space. But a vacuum of this kind can
never take place in the living body, in which, with what­
ever other properties they may be endowed, the fluids are
still obedient to the laws of hydraulics. The arterial sys­
tem consists of an assemblage of tubes, which, though they
continually diminish in their diameter as they divide into
branches, yet as the united area of the branches is always
greater than that of the trunk out of which they arose, they
constitute) when taken as a whole) a system of channels of
continually increasing capacity) as we follow them from the
heart to the extremities. The whole cavity through which
the blood moves, may therefore be represented by a cone,
having its apex at the heart, and its base at the termination
of the minutest arterial ramifications. The beginning of
the aorta is, in reality, the narrowest part of the whole chan­
nel, considered with reference to the united areas of the
successive orderofbranches as they divide. The sum ofall
the areas of the minutest ramifications of the arteries exist­
ing in the body, comprising myriads ofmyriads of vessels, if
they could be collected together, would form an area of im­
mense extent. No wonder, therefore, that the motion of
the blood, when it arrives at this part of the circulation,
should be so prodigiously retarded as actual observation
shews us that it is.
(460.) Notwithstanding this great difference in the velo­
city of the blood in different parts of its arterial circulation,
it would appear from the experiments of Poiseuille, that the
pressure exerted by the blood, as measured by the column
of mercury it will support at different distances from the
heart, is not very different.
(461.) The arteries being always full of blood, and their
coats distended by its presence, the elasticity of these coats
is always exerted, and produces a constant pressure on
the blood, independently of any force that may urge it for­
wards. The entry of a fresh quantity of blood forced into
them by the action of the heart, producesa slight additional
distention of their coats, and a consequent reaction of their
elasticity. This reaction of the arteries in each interval of
the heart’s pulsation, tends much to equalize the motion of
the blood; and has the effect also of propagating the im­
POWERS CONCERNED IN THE CIRCULATION. 395
396 PHYSIOLOGY.
pulse originally given to it by the heart very quickly to the
remoter parts of the arterial system. The velocity with
which this impulse is transmitted, is much greater than the
actual motion of the blood, and partakes of the nature of a
wave, which, as is well known, advances with incomparably
greater rapidity than the progressive motion of the fluid it­
self It is the impulse given to the sides of the artery by
this wave, as it may be called, which constitutes the pulse,
and which is more particularly rendered sensible on com­
pressing the artery with the finger.
(462.) It has been a much disputed question, both here
and on the continent, whether the arteries assist the circula­
tion by exerting any contractile power of their own. The
evidence in favour of their exerting such an action is very
strong, and apparently ^resistible. The power of the heart,
however enormous we may suppose it to be, would appear
to be quite inadequate to drive the whole mass of the blood
through the infinite number of narrow and contorted chan­
nels through which it actually moves, were it not assisted
by some additional force, derived from the contractions of
the arteries themselves. Many facts prove that variations in
the impetus of the blood, and in the quantity which circu­
lates in particular parts, occur at different times, quite inde­
pendently of any general alteration of the circulation, or of
any corresponding change in the action of the heart. The
only assignable cause for such differences is a variation in
the extent of action of the arteries. Numerous experiments
show that stimuli applied to the smaller arteries occasion in
them a temporary constriction at the points where irritation
has been excited; which, after a certain time, goes offspon­
taneously. Various other facts also prove that the arteries
have a power of spontaneous contraction; this power is ex­
hibited in the most unequivocal manner when an artery has
been cut across; the consequent haemorrhage being, after
some time, stopped by this action of the coats of the artery.
This contractile force of arteries is probably derived from
muscularity, although the muscular structure is not distinct*
ly perceptible. It is considerably greater in the smaller
than in the larger arteries; and it is probably greatest of
all in the capillaries.
(463.) Notwithstanding the foots above stated, the mus­
cularity of the arteries is denied by some of the most emi­
nent of the continental physiologists; and among others,
Magendie, Broussais, Adelon, Alard, Rolando, and Muller.1
3. Action o f the Capillaries.
(464.) The particular agents by which the circulation is
carried on in the capillaryvessels cannot be verypreciselyde*
termined; andthe subject hasgiven rise to much controversy
among physiologists. The action of these vessels is evi­
dently of the greatest importance in relation to every other
function, and more especially to the production of every
permanent change which may take place in the form or
composition of the organs. The variable state of the cir­
culation in different organs at different times, must be oc­
casioned principally by diversities in the actions of the ca­
pillaries. It appears from the experiments of Hunter, that
while the larger arteries possess a greater proportion of elas^
tic power, the smaller arteries have a comparatively greater
muscular contractility; and this reasoning may, with great
appearance of probability, be extended to the capillaries. It
would appear, indeed, from various observations on the in-
1 See Milligan’s Translation ofMagendie, and Bostoek's Physiolo­
gy* P* 244*.
POWERS CONCERNED IN THE CIRCULATION. 3 9 7
3 9 8 PHYSIOLOG*.
ferior animals, and in particular from those made by Dr. W.
Philip, that the circulation in the capillaries may be kept
up for some time after the pulsation ofthe heart has entire­
ly ceased, and even when that organ has been altogether
removed from the body. In many cases, indeed, the ca­
pillaries, when viewed with the microscope, have been seen
to contract on the application to them of stimuli, which, in
other cases, excite contractions in the muscular fibre. The
pulsatory motion of the blood given to it in the arteries by
the periodical contractions of the heart, is scarcely sensible
in the smaller arteries, and is totally lost in the capillaries,
where wefind the blood moving in a uniform stream. This is
anecessary consequence of the tortuouscourseofthe channels
through which it passes,,r|id of the numerous communica­
tions among these vessels, which equalize the effects of the
original impulse, and extend them over the whole period of
time that intervenes between one pulsation and the next.
a
4. Action o f the Veins.
(465.) The blood which is returned from every part of
the system by the veins, is gradually accelerated in its pro­
gress towards the heart, for a similar reason that it was re­
tarded in its transmission through the arteries, namely, that
the capacity of the channel through which this fluid is pass­
ing is continually diminishing; for the united area of the
beginnings of the veins is incomparably smaller than the
conjoined area of the two venae cavae. The office of the
veins generally appears, on the whole, to partake more of a
mechanical action than that of the arteries, though it is
probable that the smaller veins may derive from their struc­
ture powers analogous to those of the capillaries. The
power which impels the blood forwards in the veins is chiefly
the impulse it has already received, and the pressure exert­
ed on it from behind, or what has been technically termed
the vis a tergo. This force is assisted also in many situa­
tions by the pressure made on the veins by the action of
the neighbouring muscles, which, in consequence of the
valves placed in the course of the veins, preventing all re­
trograde motion in the blood, must contribute to force it
onwards towards the heart. It is probable, however, that
the veins are not altogether destitute of a power of contrac­
tion, though less considerable than that possessed by the ar­
teries ; and that the exertion of this power has some share
in accelerating the motion of the blood in the venous sys­
tem. Whatever power may arise from the force of dilata­
tion exerted by the auricles of the heart during their dias­
tole, which, however, we have reason to believe is very tri­
fling, must be added to the account of the forces that tend
to promote the motion of the blood towards those cavities.
Some have supposed that a similar power is derived from
the expansion of the chest in the act of inspiration; but
this, if it exist at all, is of very inconsiderable amount. The
venae cavae near their termination in the auricles, are fur­
nished with a distinct layer of muscular fibres, apparently
for the purpose of enabling them to resist the retrograde
impulse communicated to the blood by the contraction of
the auricles. *
POWERS CONCERNED IN THE CIRCULATION. 3 9 9
5. Pulm onary Circulation.
(466.) There is nothing very different in the circulation
through the pulmonary arteries, capillaries, and veins, from
what takes place in the corresponding vessels of the syste­
mic circulation, excepting that junctions are occasionally
formed between the smaller branches of the branchial arte-
A
CATALOGUE OF WOBK8
PUBLISHED B
Y
ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK, EDINBURGH.
CLASSIFIED INDEX.
A
R
TSA
N
DSC
IE
N
C
E
S.
B
rew
ster<
m
toeM
kroaoope
w,, onM
agnetism
Clerk'sN
avalTactics
C
ogsw
ellanIodine
O
teuxoooShipbuilding
Cunningham
'sG
eologyoftheLothtans
EdinburghPhilosophicalJournal
FlemingonM
ollusc*gadShellHah
GallowayonProbabilities
GrahamonM
ode
HanaardonPrinting
H
aydonand Hailitt on Painting and the
FineArta
H
enderson'*Astronom
icalO
bservation*
H
oaklngonArchitectureandBuilding ,
K
eU
and'aAlgebra
X
soountan H
allw
ay*
LeslieonNaturalandChem
icalPhilosophy
M
ackintosh'sEthicalSctenoe
Hadma on the G
eologyofFifeand the
L
o
th
h
m
a .
MatherontheShipLifeBoat
PhillipsoftC
teotogy . ,
„ onSteamandSteamNavigation
SternumonM
arineBunw
ylngandHjfaro-
metry
Thom
eooonAnimalG
bem
latry
TraillonM
edloalJurisprudence
W
aQ
aoe'aC
k
m
leSeotiona
W
atteua’cOrnam
entalD
ecfapu
W
U
eon'aM
am
m
alia#Ornttfertogy, Ichthy­
ology,andEntom
ology
ED
U
C
A
T
IO
N
.
BorrettTiItalianand&
>
g
U
ahDictionary it
B
laok'eSchoolAtlaa >
BoyerandBeletanville'eFrenchandE
hgU
sh
Dtetiouary g
BroughamonNationalEducation •
Buchanan'sPaalm
a 4
Dutnu’sFrenchGrammar a
G
ibw
n’
ePetitFabller 7
„ Sotruptue . 7
Hetherlngton'eBIctoryofB
orne 7
Bindmanh'aEpicPoetry 7
Kelland'sAlgebraand Dem
onstrative M
a-
thematica . . a
Kltto•HietoryofPaleatine 0
LeefFractionalArlthtnetlo a
„ Arithmetic,Algebra,andG
eom
etry 9
Idndsoyjfjlghl&
hoolVocabulary . a
10
10
1
1
1
1
11
11
11
10
10
1
3
1
4
M
artin1
*Seam
an'aArithmetic
„ EducationofM
other! .
M
oore1
*GreekG
ram
m
a*,byTate
Kagent'sFrenchDlotlauuy .
O
sw
ald’
sEtymologicalDictionary
EtvnM
ddficalM
aoeal
Ptlhm
aentKwSSweaofToaohla
fttln—
amaettkUttea
„ mXatiaelEduSSon
EN
C
Y
C
LO
PED
IA
SA
N
D
D
IC
T
IO
N
A
R
IE
S.
Bareiti'a Italian and Xngttih Btottoiutty 0
B
oywydD
etotenva^froaohaadteg
M
a
h
Gc^eSSsS^Btetiom^ a
G
v
c
x
o
m
o
k
aor Bnttoai.Lrneaaitma,stereo
avDaJCrrro . 0
Bewdorwnu,Barrunnoa,gav*»T*Essnot* a
HoopertM
edicalStationary 7
Malte-HrunandBalWaBnirwaalGeography a
GW
0CB
O
O
K
SA
N
D T
R
A
V
E
L
L
IN
G
M
A
PS.
BMflk* Ptatuftegne Tonriet of England and
CLASSIFIED INDEX.
H
IST
O
R
Y
.
B
lair**HistoryoftheW
aldens'*
Gibbon'sBono,eightvolum
es .
„ Bom
s,onevolum
e
Silly'sValdensss
HetWtagton'sHistoryofB
orne
Kitto'sH
istoryofPalasttoe
M
ensel’sEuropein1
0
4
0
Rollin'sAncientHistory
Russell'sM
odemE----
T
ytier’
sHistoryof<
L
A
W
.
Alexander’s Abridgem
ent at the Scottish
AbridgementoftheActsofSe­
derunt, withSupplem
ent 1
BankruptAct 1
AnalysisoftheHeritableSecu­
ritiseandX
nfbftm
entdots l
Thom
sononthehawofH
illsofEsohange is
M
E
D
IC
IN
EA
N
DSU
R
G
E
R
Y
.
ontheK
idneys
„ xirwLinesofthePracticeofSurgery5
Craigie’
sPracticeofPhysio . 0
„ EletaentsofAnatom
y 0
Cullen'sPracticeofPhysiobyDrG
regory 0
D
ick
*
*M
anualofVeterinaryB
otenee 0
EdinburghM
edicalandSurgioal/oomal 0
„ Pharm
aooporia . ®
Fyfls’
sA
natom
y . . «
Hooper'sM
edicalDictionary 1
Knox'sA
natom
ist'sInstructor g
lawonD
igestion 8
M
aoauM
y’
eM
edicalDictionary . 0
M
tU
er*PrinciplesofSuigety . 10
Bo&rtson'sStoiuhSleSoriils *
0nneonZ
H
seaesaoftheBeetoas
M
edicalJurim
mdenoe
___ M
ISC
ELLA
N
EO
U
S.
S S £ » - “
rie—
_____ EmigrationFlelde
N
A
T
U
R
A
LH
IST
O
R
Y
. Bga
Audubon'sA
m
erieanOrnithology l
„ SynopsisoftheBirdsofAm
erica 1
AaMHatemr&teeyoftheG
uarfrupads
IhadumldiaMkandShellPish «
ParoelFsFishesoftheFrithofForth
W
ernerianNaturalHistorySocietyM
em
oirs1
4
W
ilson’sTreatiesonQ
uadrupedsandW
hale*,
Birds,Ftoet,andInsects U
W
U
hamonFossilV
egetables 1
4
P
O
E
T
R
YA
N
DF
IC
T
IO
N
.
Avtoun's(SirBobert)Poem
s %
Bethune’
sSeottlsfaPeasant’sFireside s
terrathere’HighlandK
otaB
ook 4
G
hw
sford’
sItalianPoets . 7
m SphinxIncruenta 7
ZeuiaerisMrihomasDisk)HighlandRam
­
blesandL
sw
ends . , a
M
Utor^Sem
esam
dL
egends
Pw
sfay,B
om
anoe,andRhetoriobyM
oirand
PO
L
IT
IC
A
LE
C
O
N
O
M
Y
.
Gray’
sSodalSystem
,, R
em
edyfortheD
istressofRatten#
M
'CullochontheRateofW
age*
M
enxel’sEuropein1
8
4
0
PeelandhisEra .
edtheDistributionofW
ealth
PohticnlB
iM
ousm
a 1
8
Smith’
sWealthofHattonsbyJ.R,M
'Cul-
lodh . .1 8
R
E
L
IG
IO
U
SANDM
O
R
A
LW
O
R
K
S,
Alexander'sA
nxto-C
athoH
eism , 1
.. UnityoftheChristianChurch . 1
mlPhilosophyofInstinctandBaason4
1Cyolojw
diao?B
flbH
c.........
HtitoiyofPalestine
MartinfAime)onOeBdua--------- ----
— ------... ----- AnimalW
orld11
X
lttolsO
R
U
R
A
LA
F
F
A
IR
SA
N
DR
U
R
A
L
SPO
R
TS.
OleghomiA
grieuB
oze
N^Fm
iO
Plowwr.ai
TheHorssendtheH
o*
TheB
odandIte Gan
TheShootersbrnd-Book
U
T
R
A
V
E
L
S.
CATALOGUE OF W O M S
PUBLISHED BY
ADAM AND CHABLES BLACK.
ALEXANDER W
. L
.)—
A
N
G
L
C
fetal*nEnquiryIntotheSettpfamd
*£* tortheTimes"and other Publ
Al«x*adsr,M.A. *ro,toafelk.
L
O
*C
A
T
H
O
L
IC
ISMNOTA
PO
STO
LIC
A
L.
M .A. llm o, with » Portrait. to M. bauds.
the whole SootsActs now tafaros sad on , with Botss and Beim m es. ByW UM usAluwirtir,
W .S. (By rsoommeadatioB of the Court.) B oysltoo, Si* bauds.
Alexander,W.B
. SecondEdition,Im
provedandenlw|«d. BoyUSvo,lto bcuto
Time, tnntwttnffvntmSmthe wholeActsnowInfamerelattafto Sheriff,B
atfh,ua Com
.
m*Nuy OaStsTSheriff-Oarhe*Fees.Procurators*Feee,fcoTwltfaVetoend £A
*f*»oo*. By
wSSmmAtcxeaduTW .0. (W fthlho speotaleppwbuion ofthe Cowtend D un offecoHy.)
BoysiBro,ito beud*
“S S S r S S S ? ™
■ ^ ^ ^ ii^ s a g a a f e a g a i ; * 11"**•" **•
Ataxurfer, W A lb w ,* - dW t- Tbe Ohsr* may be ho* H jsijilfo< feed to , u to A M
loysitoo,tobauds.
ARACKX-UFt orMM8i W
ATT.
^Bom onafm ium m ilit tab s without tt."~Aw
ADj
i ° & ^ s s m x ja m & 'is s a K m
CATALOGUE OP WOBKS
AYTOUN.-THE PO
EM
SO
FSIRR
O
B
E
R
TA
Y
TO
U
N
.
from aManuscriptinpossearianoftheEditor,entitled,*
*The Poem
*ofthat worthyGentle­
man,SirRobertlytoun,Knight,Secretaryto Annatad M
ary,Q
ueen*ofCheat Britain,Ac.
O
nevohuae,withaM
emoirortheAuthor,andanIntroductiontothePoetryofthePeriod,by
CharlesRoger,Esq.ofDum
oo, niustmtedwithaGenealogicalTreeoftheFamilyofAytounof
Klnaldle, a M
onumentofthe AuthorIn W
eetmlnetarAbbey, andaGkmaiyofSoottielam
s.
Poet8vo,d
a (doth.
AZABA.—
NATU
R
A
L H
IST
O
R
Y O
F TH
E Q
U
A
D
R
U
PED
S O
F P
A
R
A
G
U
A
Y
A
N
DTHEBITERLAPLATA,translatedfromtheSpanishofBonFelixdeAcara,witha
M
em
oiroftheAuthor,aPhysicalSketchoftheCounfry,andnum
erousNotes. ByW
. Ferae*
valHunter, Esq F.O.8.Z.8 ,fro..M
emberofthe Geological SocietyofFmnoe. FirstvoL
(allthatlapublished)8vo,withaM
apofParaguayandBuenosAyres,loa.dd.doth.
" Atari's M
em
oirsan invaluable. His descriptionsan not only aocurate bat masterly/’
—
Sw
aoraox.
“ D
onFells:deAzamaeeritdeuxexcellentouvragesanrPhlstoiranatural!#dn Paraguay.”—
Ctnnxa.
BALLINGALL.—O
UTLINESO
FM
IL
IT
A
R
YSU
R
G
E
R
Y
.
B
ySirG
eorgeBaM
ngall,M.D.,P RC0 K.,SurgeontotheQ
ueen,BegtusProfessorofM
ili­
tarySurgeryin theuniversityofEdinburgh,fro.fro. ThirdEdition,8vo,P
P
>M
8, its. doth.
*
*Aworkwhichoughttobeinthehandsofeverynavalandmilitarym
edicalofficer.”—
B»miH
aw FoaxxonM
am
oajB
cvxaw
,
BABETTI.—IT
A
L
IA
NANDE
N
G
L
ISHD
IC
T
IO
N
A
R
Y
.
Aeoom
paniedbyan Italian GrammarbyG
iuseppeBaretti. EighthEdlttoo,oonaotedand
enlarged,byCharlesThomson, svols.8vo,M
s.
BELL.—
INSTITUTES O
FSU
R
G
E
R
Y
,
Arrangedla the order ofthe Lectures delivered In the UniversityofEdinburgh. BySir
CharlesBell,K.G
»H.,F.B.8S.L.andB.,MD.,Gott, PrafesmrofSargeryInthe UnW*
sityofEdinburgh,ConsultingSurgeontotheHospital,fob.fro. Tw
ovols.post8vo,ISs.doth.
A
U
ST
R
A
L
IA
, , ^ v
*ontheexperienceofaThreeYean’Residence
ETHUNB.—PO
LITIC
A
LE
C
O
N
O
M
Y
ExplainedandEnforcedinaSeriesofLectures. B
" tides andSketchesofthe ScottishPeasantry,”
ByAlexanderBethune,Labourer,Authorof
“and John Bethune,aftfeshlre —L
'“
BETHUNE—THE SC
O
TTISHPEASANTSF
IR
E
SID
E
ASeriesofTalesand SketchesM
usfrntingthe Characterofthe
llmo,es.doth.
PeasantryofScotland. B
y
M
rBethune’
*formervolum
ew
asthusaohoedbyTanAtxxujbcx " Itistheperfectpropriety
ofhistaste,noleasthanthethoroughintimacywiththe unobtrusive subjectsbetreatsat, which
givesM
rBethune’
slittlebookagreatcharmInoureyes.” Theworkw
asreviewedintermsequally
favourablebyTanSracT
A
T
on,Tarr’sMaoism*,C
suxbx ' *----- *
ebyTanSm
c
t
a
t
o
o
iTan’sMaoism*,O
susbi1Jocxxai,andotherPeriodicals.
BLACK'S G
E
N
E
R
A
LA
TLA
SO
FTH
EW
O
R
L
D
.
Containingsixty-onePoBo. - .
H
A
U
^H
ughes,andothers,w
engravedonSteel, fa
sthetretstyleoftheArt, faySidney
-----L , 1 descriptions,StatisticalTables,andanIndexof
_______ ____ _ _____ ,
__I, amountingto oy,ooo, withtheir latitude and
Longitude, andthe numberofthe M
apin'whichtheywill befound. NewEdition, with
j,andothers,with
■occurringla the several ]
misImprovementsandadditions, L.8. 1*. strciwlyandelegantlyhalfboundin t
___wtihifitleaves. ThisAtlas,alraatiyfcvourablykuownbytfie hugecirculationof__
formerEdition,IsunsurpassedeitherInaoouracyorbeautyofexecution, byanyworkofits
(daw
,whileinoheapneMitisaltogetherunrivalled.
BLACK’S SC
H
O
O
LATLASO
FM
O
D
E
R
NG
E
O
G
R
A
PH
Y
, _ ^
AnentirelynewooO
eotionofM
aps,drawnbyW.Hughes,F.R.G.8.,ProfeworofGeography
Intin C
ollegeforCivilEngineer*, andengravedon&
eelinthedietstyleofart: withanIn­
dexofallthenam
escontainedinthework,exhibitingtheLatitudeand Longitudeofsaeh,
and«refbreaoetothe M
apInwhichitm
aybefound. TheM
apsofRoyalQnnrtorise,and
m
aybehadhound,eitherInquartoatfe.O
n.,orSvo,M
.
BLACK'S PIC
TU
R
ESQ
U
ETO
URISTO
FSC
O
TLA
N
D
,
InterestingLocalities(tedndtngAaas of MtnhMghand G
faw
row
); l_____ _______
ReentryonW
oodandSteel;aiMaooidonaltlnwniqr, JtatftfciaMMS,
InahandsomeportaMsvehm
w
bgB
.8d.thtt.
i W
sSricalW S ibufwWSt$ptoesoundtastelatw
h
itrod
iw
tiem
’^AvwrM^
•uacics mntNWQUS
R
o
a
d
slR
a
H
iv
w
c
>
x
ii»
J
i
Li
,»iiiih
i
i
i
PUBLISHED BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK. »
BLACK'S PICTURESQ
UEG
U
ID
ETOTHE E
N
G
L
ISHL
A
K
E
S.
Includingan EssayontoeG
eologyo
rfDieDistrict,byJohn PhilHw,F.E.&G.L.,Proto**
ofGtoolorfInKing'sCollege,London. Withamtaufetyaoeum
mHap,fa
yW
.Hughes; Charts
ftiu UMibySidneyHail\ ViewsoftheB
eensxy,byvariousdistinguishedartist*i andan
' .................. tel^Wd down, SeoondEdition,
M
ThisGuidetotheLakeshasbeenoom
pileduponthe sameelaborateplan,(as thePlotureeqU
e
TouristofScotland,)governedbythesameresolutiontosparenocostortroubletoachieveasuc­
cessfulresult It needsno highereommendutlon. It isapicturesque GuideIneveryflense—
its
description*areohanodnglywritten—
itsintelligenceisampleandminute-am
iitsillustrationsare
admirablespecimenserfart,”—
Atlas.
BLACK’S EC
O
N
O
M
IC
A
LTO
URISTO
FSCO
TLAND.
ContaininganaccurateTravellingRap andItinerary, with DescriptiveNoth**ofallthe re*
markableotaectsalongtheseveralroads,andPour EngravedChartsofthoseLocalitieswhich
poaw
aipeculiarHistoricalorPicturesqueinterest. ThirdEdition,oorreotedandimproved, lie
aneatpocketvolume,as.8d.doth.
“ Aworkmostcarefullyand elaboratelyoompiled,containingthe greatestpossibleamount of
informationinthesmallestpossibleqaaoe.”—
S
oo
’
iesuji,
BLACK'S EC
O
N
O
M
IC
A
LG
U
ID
ETH
R
O
U
G
H ED
IN
BU
R
G
H
:
With a Descriptionor the Environs. Illustrated witha Plan ofthe City,*a Rap ofthe
CountryTenRiles round; andTw
elveViewsofthe PublicBuildingsandof theNeighbour*
ing Soenery. FourthEdition,enlargedandImproved. Inaneatpocketvolume,as.sewed.
" Thislittlebode ShouldbeIn the handsofeverystrangerwhodesiresto befamiliarwithall |
thatIsremarkableintheAntiquities,Institutions,andPublicBuildingsofEdinburgh.”—
feomisair.
BLACK'S EC
O
N
O
M
IC
A
LG
U
ID
ETH
R
O
U
G
HG
LA
SG
O
W
;
ArrangedInThreeWalks; withaPlanoftheCity,andaRapoftheEdinburghandGlasgow
Ballway,theUnionCanal,andtheFourPostBondsbetweentheCities. SeooudEdition. In
astitchedcover,Is.
“ IfanyvisitorInGlasgowtodshimselfastrangerfatit,hehashimselfonlytoblame,ashemay
todhimselfathomeIneveryparto
rfIt*withthe Economical GuideInhispocket.EoummuH
Hall: withall theRoads, Railroads, ana other Topograpnioai informationrequirednytne
TouristorTravelleronBusiness, tilse,thirty.two inchesfa
ytwenty-twoandone-half. Ina
neatportablecase,4s.ed.doth.
" AbeautifullyexecutedHanofEnglandandW
ales, which, aftercareful observationandre*
fetence,wecaneharaeteriasaabeingamongthemostcorrecteverissued.”—
M
inimJo
o
b
m
a
l
.
BLACK'S TR
A
V
ELLIN
GM
APO
FSCO
TLAND.
G
arefaO
yconstructedfromthebestauthorities. Withall theBoadsandBailroadiaccurately
laiddown. Blse, thirty-two Inchesbytwenty-two and one-half. In a neatportablecase,
4s.gd.doth.
41AhandsomelookingRaperflargedimensions,yet sowell mountedthatit foldsup Intothe
elmofapocket-book,amiwlmhsattheflam
etimeofapartialexamination.M
—
Sw
c
t
a
t
o
*.
»•*SmallerRapsofEtagbm
d,ofSootiand,andofIreland,Inpocketoases,priceto ad.each.
----------eChristianChurchesIntheSoutho
rfFrance
-------------- ,,,--------------- ssubmittedtothePope,whentheW
aldeueeecontinued
asformerlyindependentofthePapalSee. BytheBev.AdamBlair- a veto,8vo,As.doth.
,tarD.BoflaauandA,Pioquot. Nei ___ „
oftheDictionaryoftheFrsnohAcadem
y. H
vo,Ifls.bound.
M
A
G
N
E
T
ISM
.
BBBWSTER.—A TREi
By Sir DavidBrewetsr,
France,A
c.Ac. Illusti
Curves. Poettoo,to doth.
Illustratedbyupwar
___ B.8., Corresponding M
emberof the Boyal Institute of
byttpw
xedsoCW
OEngraving*onW
ood,andaChartofM
agnetic
'<TheSplendid articlebyNrDavidBrefrrier«nMagnetism.”—
RoawxoHajuun
K u n m ^ -, ONTHEM
ICRO
SCO
PE ofthe Boyal Institute of
Posttoo, to <
FnW^l^rines Simpson,Esq. Advocate,Authoro
rfthePhilosophyerfEducation. Foarth
B^ ,u^ « . C T L ? £ « ^ ' r . E
^ iC
A
'nON TO™ ED
U
K
E
CATALOGUE OP WORKS
“ 8 2 S ; « r i l
Mro,W
*
OMto. R W .A .I.
FemMest of the Begral Media*! X X L *
BUCH
ANaNI(G
E
O
).—
PA
RA
PH
R
A
SIS P8A
L
M
O
R
O
MD
A
V
V
O
tSPO
E
T
1C
A
.
O nm flohenm thlietnm im rt»ota^aouiM>wwtnaBoa wiIdmUmim — iitiik i^ iw enwafad-
tau. RrA.M
rtjr.DM
M
M
. iauo»».h«urt.
" W S a k M fiffS ^
A rtrth .
M Iortfb fln A M b A r tA
CANADA.-A/IEW
8O
FCA
N
A
D
AAH
D.THE.gOt=OW
tT»;
■ p ertS & O rtw y withdetailedPraottael tofonwatloafor intendingKmjgmnk . ’B y* Foot
T
ew
e*BM
rtJatTlW
-9
*
v>w
W
>*M
*
j>
,*
*
.M
.ek
rth
.
CARRUTHKR8.—THE HIGHLAND NOTE-BOOK; _
OrfifeeteheeimdA
needefce. By«.flwwftw,linemen Ihno,*. eteth.
• prewntVolumek moreBumneaniy Ukmsthw, « gktng mrttaueeeI
', the mountainand moorland fhknem
n, Inrtla the ym
m
gOheveJkr’*
_- - --- 1 bytheHoeeyehirt Flood* m
adeemglealgroundtar
faythe dettghtftd
CAMOK.^H*OTLrAWt*,_
AU|tMI UMTS liimWIIIHI 4
l i J g S S & X t t t l U K
^ “M
hoBerta. MM**.'— "
CHRIST!SON.—A DISPENSATORY!
Being» Q
o
m
m
e
ntnryanRePhernm
e
n
yra
tM
1 < erm d M .ii an jndknenmhle
taw. M wSau Ran. B r a *
companion,iw tin the 0tad
yarty,butte the ‘ Bugery'ako.^taw.
. By Bobert
A*. A * Fonrth
llrnm
uiwftnwwJwBm.
CHRISTISON.—THI
inthetTnieemty<
rfBdtebnigh. lr«,kiioth.
** The tttatteattee oaeee,thirty-one In number,am nam rtodrtth B K fcrtdhtnti waal tiim iw ,
* “ " --------------------------- tenekm. We k—mtafrtinw
w
iiH thhboofcInonr
'*Tim beta awai^ ejM ^ *e he t— S JnBtaakhBttttaaer
ff£ j*»aS5CA.«,
COOPB&-A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL SURGERY:
Comprahendlntallthem
ootInterestingImprovem
entsfromtheearliesttimesdowntothepro-
notParted; anaeoountofthe InstrumentsendRem
ediesom
ployedinSurgery; the efymo.
lflgyandlignlfiostionoftheprtaolpelTerms; andnum
erousReferencestoanolentendmodem
works,feraatefaeetutegueoffihufteelliterature,arrangedaccordingtosubjects. TheSeventh
Edition.swvteft,eometed,andenlarged. BySam
uelCooper, SeniorSurgeontotheUhlver.
shyO
onegeHospital,London,ProfessorofSurgeryinthesum
*College,SurgeontotheQueen's
Biiwhi4m
*ko«&
0s TUok flQ
v
*doth*
C
O
O
PE
R
—FIR
STL
IN
ESOPSU
R
G
E
R
Y
,
BetegaTreatiseonthe Theory* ' " "—'
ByfiaamelCooper, “-----
orSurgeryinthem
PUBLISHED BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK. 5
BstegaTreatiseonthe Theorya*APm
otloeofSurgery, Inotudlnxtheprtasilpal operations.
“ “ -----* --------Senior Surgeon to the University College Hospital, I - *---------J -----
m
eCollege. SeventhEdition. 8vo,lfls.doth.
C
RAIG
IE.—
ELEM
EN
TSO
FTHE PR
A
C
TIC
EO
FPH
Y
SIC
,
Presentinga Viewofthe present state ofSpecial Pathologyand Thei
Cralg^H.D.,F.B.S.E.,Fellowofthe B
oySlC
ollegeofPhystelans,1
totheBoyalInfirmary,Emeritus PresidentandExtraordinaryM
em
ber<
Society,vc. Ac. See. a volum
esgvo,40adoth.
Wear* teeltoedto regardDrC
ralgte*sElementsm thebestweat pieasatposssm
.”—
Lo
m
m
*
C
R
A
X
G
IE
.—
ELEM
EN
TSO
FA
N
A
T
O
M
Y
,
Oensral,Special,and Comparative. B
yD
stvklOm
lgie,M
.D.,formingthe articleunderthat
headintheSeventhEditionoftheBncydopeediaBrttaantea. WithFourteenhighlyfinished
outIntounnecessarydetails,theleadingpointsofeachdivisionareplaced
_i concise(thoughsuftoiontlycom
prehensive) manner, the whole
beperusedwithpleasurem
o
dadvantage,bothbytheflen-pnefestioaal
beforethe reederIna dear and
termingavolum
ewhich
m
anofscienceandthep
C
R
BU
ZE.-—
SH
IPBU
ILD
IN
G
.
Beinga Treatiseonthe Theoryand PracticeofNaval Architecture. ByAugustinF. B.
Oreure,M
em
berofthelateSchoolofNavelArchitecture, PresidentofthePortsmouthPhi.
loaophlealSociety; andEditorofthe4
1PapersonNavalArchitecture." With15Engravings
onM
mI. numerousW
oodcut*, 4ko,1
8
E
#doth*
•*O
neofthebest,becausethe clearest,and,at thesam
etime, perfectlycom
prehensivedlsqulti-
tionsonShipbuilding,iscontainedintheEocyolopw
dJaBrltannJoa."—
Lmmrcoi.M
ain.
C
X
JL
L
E
N
.—
FIR
STL
IN
E
SO
FTH
E PR
A
C
T
IC
EO
FP
H
Y
SIC
.
ByW
illiamCullen,M
.D.,formerlyProfessorofPhysiofatthe UniventtyofEdinburgh,&
o.
Ac.A
c. AnewEdition,withan Appendix,byJamesGraufurdOtegory,M
.D.,F.S.0.0.,
Ac.Ac. Bvote.B
vo,fils.doth.
CUNNINGHAM.—
TH
EG
E
O
L
O
G
YO
FTH
E LO
TH
IANS: _
APtUe Bsm
y, with MColouredSections,andaG
eofcgioal M
apoftheLothiana ByR.J.
B. Cunningham, Esq. M
.W.8., Ac. 8vo, 15s. cloth. Thisvolum
efbrmcthe Seventh vo­
lumeoftheM
em
oirsoftheW
ernerianNaturalHistorySociety,andincludesDrParnell'sPrlro
Esm
yonthePM
u
moftheDistrictoftheForth,with07illustrativeFigures; andtheHistory
oftheSocietyfiramDeoem
ber1
8
8
1tillApril1M
8
.
_________ _____ _
_ _____ . ofBootiand. Post
9vo,5ahoards.
“ AllFarmers,andCattle-dealers,Shepherds,Stabler*,O
oaehContractors,eveiymanwhoIsIn­
terestedinthestudyofVeterinaryM
edicine,shouldboreMrDick'sM
anual Iniufpowesdon.”—
E
m
N
stm
oKinramm.
-A FRENCH GRAMMAR,
the Pronunciation ofthe FhmchInpureEnglish
DUTRUC.-A FR
E
N
C
HG
R
A
M
M
A
R
,
O
naNewand Original Plan,oxhlW
titigi
Sounds; withConversaekm
egaero
hes,—
the whole particularly _
Language. Towhich is ___________ _____ ________ .______
chiefly collected from the best writers on the suhjeefc. flvo, os. doth.
E
D
IN
B
U
R
G
HM
E
D
IC
A
LA
N
DSU
R
G
IC
A
LJO
U
R
N
A
L, _
ExhibitingaconciseviewofthelatestandmeetImportantD
iscoveriesInM
edicine,Surgery,
andPharmacy. PublishinginQuarterlyNumbers,dasewed.
In every branch ofMedlealandSurgical Setenoe,thte work exhibits a valuableoompendtom view
ofthe progressive advancement of knowledge; and to thorn who desire to keep paoe with the im-
pmemeate ofthe time* either in the theoreticaldepartmentsof Medical Science, or in their pmc-
"• "*,“ *"*
E
D
IN
B
U
R
G
HN
EWPHIW
SOfW
KULJO
U
R
N
A
L,
SxhlbHtega Flew of the Piogjsvtol XHeeovfiiieand Improvements in the Sbieneesand the
Arte. CondiuWtyPvofe**Or*““ **“ — •-— —
i S t i^ t e p f ii Sit
ttfio m sk uT; and for the bonefitof Rtejeneml readov, the informationIs oonveyedln a forme#
populara* the nature of the euhjeots WSTadmit Of. The numbers wifi be ' — ' ■
*
-------- ----------
unwttteittartidse Muatenting me mwiimi ofdteoowenrin Natural FT“
B
T
w
k
lS
W
lID
l6 .»i
w
.J - _
ertartidtelMfittito^
^ iT O sr R R S i m M x S s s s i ^ i
vidua*eminentInthehistoryofSetenoe.
eof Indk
CATALOGS 09 WORKS
*0TAI- « * “ “ <* mv‘
m k ~ ^ s a w a s n s s w !
"Tfcfckttei
‘ aootttioM
oo,
l>to«uind^
V /mL flirttifi&m, m&m. MrteftWftiofth**#*, h«*i Ja M *
f l g M t a ^ ^ s A
t m t l HTo eodiaa extant tm thk aotarttattoft ofnew matterbeencarried, thettam ae ofthe
▼olumae,ttooe«fc**th* of the whdb contentsa n eatbdy aew."| wItar extantof w rtlilm , and
modemflon ofprice. It mppMmto «• napamHalerti and to men whose tattanes and room*do not
permit them the eqfcrineBt of * Woveoolleotion of boohs, w*cannotamoeba « am * valaftblsae-
ofmlseellaaeeaaUtamiareMdattnnIn theKarikhboxuace, exhttritatai$, wjrstrfktocautf*
{RftM
AiiaftmbUimI in«* *
* Twiig A
ndimiinrow
nofim
uflnnU
w
w>8TinmnlioooSSon *ni i S K c f l n fr A w w ^ * ^
-sis. ^ a . j ^ a ^ f c ^ t a a a a t s ^
-------*••bedtaBritoln^ft “N
owthatthee«mtryhbeingdanced
Germanyend Am
otion,W
ho*hop*k these farthefleuhosr
nob»oorapftrikm
,begemnkIon*andweary range, tad becom
eftwrtMafetwedw tM l M
—cherthkdetthmitov^
M Asatohoa ofregardpresentedbytaflfartdealso
a
fewn
o
killo
n^fto g f
oqriflhoderieedbetteretiMbSedtofulfllthe5£cis<*«ufetftMmotttabt to vMtlkeboost***
S ^ ^ S S i S ^ J i S t s S B “
i i s a r *
8 SaRSyS^w.
eotare,eta.,orwiththekayo
W a s a S iS S S S S e * * '1
*
*w|®w wwfn^wBPW
iwym
m
M
w
*
r^ ^ ^ *W
*TO
M
Y
a w t f
^JKfliBlSUSStilestt^eift^toA
w
ethttertMUnMA
n
*
%juB w lSk ?.R.3»5,"dBrheaofls, ato ^ ligkiskttafr-
oapMHWfiMwtewg mm,or m i ftamw m r m
PUBLISHED BT ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK.
GIBB0N.< _
ByBiward
Author^-
r
,by AtoaanmrCiudmare,B*g.F.8.A.,andaPortrait, IaoaethkkvolmM,ive,«On
el YomlmUrioIBaHm
r!*Gttwto*1LC
U
bern,
ft ltsoyihe
d
«d
oth
*
“ g J U U E I Pa^ft.^Gtbeon,M
a
ttiedeQ
ttavta’i H
omttal,Aq
. Ao
. ltoo, 1
*.6d.
Perievo,*.*.
NAnelotfaentaotw
atet,frompewoaalobewfatton,ofthat«aaHo<itnmntt%ofgeoteetmmwhft
itbeeeafedodvalley*offeeaoMmA*e,Mae,fe*manyotntoriee,aaMrinedIkepari%rfti*dr
ithandwonhip,endkeptuptheibetf vwteiohuieh,inthemidatofpriration*andpem-
tuAi
fldthaadwonhipt___, ________
mttane netyete*ttagui*hed.M
"^A BnaM r Bm
GLA8SFORD.—
ITALIAN POETS.
M e LjrrimlCtaporittane«A '
* * «n>«weletan.
Poet*, w
tttoTwedaM
m
*. % 9m m
•enlarged. "—'*— ^
C
harade* Bytu rn G
liw
A
iw
t,B
eg.<
*
GLASSPOfcD.-SPHJNX INCRUEWTA,
OrTw
oHandledandTwelveoriginal E
n%
m
a*end
P
on
gam
n
n
. ltm
o,a
*
.d
d
.doth.
GHAHAM.-MUSICAl. COMPOSITION. A _ ___ _
BringanB
*e»yonitiTheeryandPraetioe,withm AppendixandKate*, beta#anextemta*
oft* artW
* ‘*M
ario." X
*0. F.Graham, Ha* w fSTm tm tm Bagavfey**andoopte*
M
ndoalDlarfarttieo*tatewpenedwiththeTeat, dto,9*.board*. .
"Ai '
ByJohnGray. B
ro,7
*
«doth.
G
R
A
Y
.—
R
E
M
E
D
YFOR THED
IST
R
E
SSOf N
A
TIO
N
S.
B
yJohnway. 8v
o
»0*.doth.
HAN8ARIKHPWNTING ANDJYPI-fOUNOfNG. ^ _
TwoTreaU
m
ebyT.0.Hanaard. XSm
tratedwithPlate*andWtodoate. Poett*e»iaolotli.
APrinter*!ManaalwhicheteryonetotheM l wttt findIt M
etbteieetto pom m ^+F tr*
r«sasr
HAYDON AND HAZUTT.-PAINTINO ANDTOE PINE ARTS.
By B M B R ydm m d W
illiamHaeHtt Port aro^dn atari.
" Mr Had*** defer ttttieTientiee, written fbt til* *Swyclepndla Britannia*,* ka*i
ournottoe. W* bare read no work of that authorwith anything approaching to the *
cation."—QtuamWMrBaviaw.
“ g g S g U E
nNriBaiororP*aotlaalAetroneinyMtiie C W tev^ef MMdniigli, andHer MMeety’a Artrono-
taer for Scotland. POMMud byenter of Her MaJeetyh Government, Yota.I, a,a,4, and 5.
Quarto, UO. board*.
HETHERINGTON.—
THE HISTORYOf ROME.
V Withoutmppreeringthorntraditionarylegend*w
btrti aa>M
endedwith
nfBoutonIfbtory,anattempthaathenmadeb*the---- 1— ^
M
em
orythoeetealeveat*nemwlMhthei
Bom
*. AbMM.
hindmarsh.—
a
FremMttton, Mon_ _
riem T
m
T
e
o
tin
n
*m
e
B& SBISEK
nattie/PerthA
om
erny.
s s e m g a e a
n
an
m
yy
i.w
newij.J^wiam
ssr ta a r e te s
lnipeaiai*lpotpoot ata
w /T 8 £ ^ V a S ? 5 ttif
8 CATALOGUE OF WORKS
HOSKING.— ARCHITECTURE, WITH THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING,
ByWilliamHosklng,F.ft.A.,Architect TowhicharesubjoinedtheArticle*M
ammy,Join*
ery,andCarpentry. WithThirty-liveEngraving*. 4to,1
8
*
.board*.
HUME.— LETTERS OF DAVID HUME,
AndExtract*fromLetter* referring to him. Edited byThom
a*Murray,LL.D.,Authorof
" TheLiteraryHlatoryofGalloway,”Ac. 8vo,6a.doth.
IRVING— LIVES OF SCOTTISH WRITERS.
ByDavidIrving,LL.D. Tw
ovolumes,poet8vo,1
9
*
.doth.
" Dr Irving write*with equal ease and perspicuity, simplicity, and nerve. He inacuteand
marchingin hi*analysisofcharacter,mentalandperaonal,and generallyJuftandgenerousinhi*
Judgment*.”—
Gjjuwow Amove.
KELLAND.—ELEMENTS OF ALGEBRA.
ByP. Kelland, A. M.,F.R. ftft.L. and E., Ac. Ac., late FollowofQueen'sCollege, Cam.
bridge,ProfessorofMathematic*intheUnivenityofEdinburgh. 8vo,o
*
.cloth.
KELLAND.— DEMONSTRATIVE MATHEMATICS.
BeingacourseofLecture*,bythe Rev PhilipKelland,A, M„F.R.ftp.L.andK.,Proftuor
ofMathematic*IntheUnivenityofEdinburgh,lateFellowandTutorofQ
ueen'*College,Cam
-
bridge, lsmo,4*.6d.cloth.
KITTO— A CYCLOPEDIA OF BIBLICAL LITERATURE.
ByJohnKltto,1).D.,F.ft.A.,Editoror«ThePictorial Bible,”Ae.dec. Airistedbynume­
rousableScholar*and Divines,British,Continental,and American,whomInitial*areaffixed
totheirrespective contribution*. Illustratedby M
aps,Engraving*on Steel,and65i Engrav­
ing*onW
ood. Intwothickvolumes,8vo,L.8,doth.
O
nnoworkofthisclawhasthereever been engagedthe sam
e extensive and distinguishedco-­
operation; norhasanypublicationofthekindeverappeared,eitherat home orabroad, contain­
ing nolargeanamountofvaluableoriginalmatter,orformingsoableadigestofinformation,from
every source, illustrating the Sacred Writings. The following branches ofBiblical Science am
comprehendedinthework. 1. BiblicalCriticism. 9. BiblicalInterpretation. 8. History. 4. Geo­
graphy. 6. Archaeology. 0. PhysicalScience.
“ IntheC
yclopaediabeforeus,we recognisethe closenessofthe connection between theScrip­
turalandprofenesubjectsoftheancientworld; thelearningandabilitywithwhlohtheoneolase
Ismadetothrowlightupontheother; thetudit ry withwhichobsoleteusagesamagainrestored
totheknowledgeofmankind; theacutecriticise khich1
*madetobearonthemostdisputedform
s
andthingsofrevelation; andtheextraordinaryllluitrationwhichthem
oat reconditesubjectsre­
ceiveatthehandsoftheContributors.”—
'At
h
t
w
jx
x
jm
.
“ W
ehavenopublicationatalltobecomparedwithit; itiaaninvaluableadditiontoourtheo­
logicalliterature,andtheextensivecirculationandstudyofitwouldaugurwellfor ourfuturead­
vancement.”—
North British Rsvoew.
K IT TO -TH E HISTORY OF PALESTINE,
FromthePatriarchalAgetothePresentTime; withIntroductoryChaptersontheGeogra’hy
andNaturalHistoryoftheCountry,andontheCustom
send InstitutionsoftheHebrews. B
y
JohnKltto,D.D.,F.ft.A.,Editorof“ the PictorialBible,”Ac.Ac. WithQ
uestion*forex­
amination, hyAlexanderReid,A.M
-,RectorofCircusPlaceSchool. l9mo,8s.0d.,orwith
M
apofPalestine,4
*.bound.
KNOX.—THE ANATOMISTS INSTRUCTOR,
AndM
useumCompanion; beingPractical DirectionsfortheFormation and subsequentM
a­
nagementofAnatomicalM
useum
s. *ByF. J. Knox, Burgeon, ConservatoroftheM
useumin
Oldftugpons’Hall. 19m
o,4*.0d.boards.
" Wethinkthisacapitalbookinitsway. WepositivelyInsistuponSurgeonsandStudent*buy­
ingItdlnetiy."—
M
x
n
c
o
-G
iu
x
v
m
ic
a
x
.Rxvuw.
LAUDER.— HIGHLAND RAMBLES,
AndLongLegend*to ShortentheWay BySirThomasDickLauder,Bart.Author of"An
Accountofthe Morayshire Floods.”" Lochtadhu,” Ac.Ac. WithS
evernIllustrative Etch­
ing*byW.Dyce,Eaq. ThirdEdition. Tw
ovolum
e*,poet8vo. OneGuinea,doth.
" W
eheartilyrecommend thenevolum
e*to all touriststothe*Land ofthe Mountain and the
Flood,’whoarenowsettingforthontheirdelightfultrip.”—
Bxwrure'eM
u
ck
u
a
x
y
.
“Fulloilegend,fullofadventure,fullofinternet."—
AranuHrai.
LAW.-DERANGEMENT OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS.
Andonit*connectionwithDiseaseinotherparts. RyWilliamLaw,Esq.,FellowoftheRoyal
CollegeofSurgeon*ofEdinburgh. ThirdEdition,O
s.doth.
“ Thepresentauthorhasobviouslycarriedextensivereading,andnolittle reflectiontohi*task,
andheperform*Itwithacandourwhichlaexoeedinglylaudable.”—
So
o
m
m
a
x
.
LKCOUNT.— RAILWAYS.
APracticalTreatiae, explainingtheirConstructionand Management,beingthearticleunder
that head in the Encyclopedia, with additional detail*. By Lieutenant Leemint, R.N.,
F.R.A.ft.,C
.E. oftheLondon and BirminghamRailway. IllustratedwithW
oodcut*and
Engravings. Post8vo,fis.doth.
“ Thebertandmostcompletetreatiseontheauhjeet.”—
M
xnuwomAnCaw
m
vA
’
nv*Jo
t
jr
h
m
-
“ Byfarthem
o
*
>
tvaluable workcmthe construction and managementofrailwaysextant”—
M
a
n
c
k
x
h
x
rC
o
u
x
ib
r
.
PUBLISHED BT ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK. 9
LEES.— FRACTIONAL ARITHMETIC,
BeingIntroductorytothe Studyof M
athematics. ByG
eorgeLeer, A.M
., Metbematisal
Masterinthe Scow
U
hNaval endM
ilitary A
cadem
y, and Lectureronnatural Philosophy.
Edinburgh. 18m
o,h. 6d.doth.
LEES.— ARITHMETIC, ALGEBRA, AND GEOMETRY.
AnElementaryW
orkforthe VieofStudent*. B
yGeorgeLace,A. M., dm
. Bn, 6
*
.doth.
LESLIE.— NATURAL ANO CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
BeingtheContribution*ofSirJohnLeslieonthefollowingImportantsubjectsofNaturaland
Chem
icalPhU
oeophy-
1.Ac
h
ju
w
a
t
icGiJuraa. 9.A
c
o
u
s
t
ic
s
. 8. A
xw
w
M
m
ce. 4. Bsnowmta. 8. Baaoioraioaa
Mutotnam. 8. G
l
im
a
t
x
. 7
*C
o
u
>a
k
dQ
aw
am
aiU
M
r. 8. Daw
. p. XmoaotoBT.
lUuatxatedwithPlate*andW
oodcut*,andpretooedbyaBiographicalM
em
oiroftheAuthor.
Port8*o,9
*
.doth.
" W
eeoaroelyknowanysdentlflebodem
oreattractive.''—
M
m
aaitoGowns*Haaun.
LINDSAY.— HIGH SCHOOL VOCABULARY.
B
ySam
uelLlndmy,A.M
. l8mo,la bound.
LITERATURE.—THE PROGRESS OF LITERATURE, . , ___t r
AnditsEffect*onSociety. IncludingaSketch oftheProgramofEnglishandSootehLttera-
tun. 8*o,7kboard*.
*
*Thlaveryablecom
m
entaryontheProgramofLiterature lamanlfatiythe productionofone
w
hoha*readmuch,andthoughtmore.”~ATjisKjntm.
LOGAN.-COLLECTANEA LATINA MINORA? _ _
H
iveExoerptaexEcmoniHtaroauB
o
m
a
n
a
'j exU
broSix. Atm.Ytoroaiad*virisillustrtbus
urbisRom*;exCoumcuoN
xrcrr*derittsexoeU
entiumfmperitorwntueononetexPrunmuPa-
euua H
iaaccom
m
odateaooeduntVoeabulariumaoNom
inaPropria. InuaumTyrooumInge-
nulaartibusoperamdantium. BdltioAlteranonlinecumemandata. ismo,aaO
d
.bound.
LOTHIAN— CONSISTORIAL LAW.
TheLawandPracticePeculiartotheA
ction*ofDeclaratorofM
arriage,Nullity,Separation,
Divorce,Legitimacy,tee., transferredfromtheG
om
m
lm
aryCourttotheCourtofHeatonIcom
*
prebendingtheStyle*oftheseActions,Flees,M
ode*ofProof,andGeneraldetailofProcedure.
Withremarksonthe PresentStateoftheC
onaistorialLaw,andthe BeoentJudicatureAct.
B
yM
auriceLothian,SolicitorintheO
onriatorialCourtofScotland. 8vo,7a.fld.boards.
MACAULAY.— A MEDICAL DICTIONARY.
D
esignedforPopularUse, containinganAccountofDiseasesandtheirTreatment.Induding
thosem
ostfrequentin WarmClimates; with Directionsfor Administering M
edicinesj the
RegulationofDietandRegimen; andthe M
anagementoftheD
iseasesofW
om
enandC
hild*
ren. B
yAlexanderM
acaulay, M
.D.,FellowoftheRoyalC
ollegeofSurgeonsofEdinburgh,
andPhyddan-AooouoheurtotheN
ewTow
nDispensary. TheEighthEdition,enlarged,cor­
rected,andIm
proved. Dedicatedbypermissiontothe late Dr Abercrombie. In onethick
volum
eoctavo,doublecolum
ns,Its.doth.
" Justsoohaworkaseverybeadofaduallyoughtto haveonhisbook-ehelf.’’—
B
xK
nrrtmHa-
aAu>.
MACKINTOSH.—ETHICAL PHILOSOPHY,
BeingaDinertationontheProgressofEthicalPhilosophy,chieflyduringtheSeventeenthand
EighteenthCenturies. B
ythe RightHoc. Sir Jame*M
aokinto*h,LL.V, F.R.S. Witha
PrefacebytheRev.W
illiamW
hew
eU
,M
.A.,FellowofTrinityC
ollege,Cam
bridge. Bro,8s.
doth.
“ D
onewithtaste,discrimination,and,asA
wasthe subjectwouldadmit,thateaseandperspi­
cuitywhichflowfromthecom
pletemasteryofaoongenialsubject."—
Quaktcblv R
xvtaw
-
*'Thatinimitable*DissertationonEthical Philosophy'whichisprefixedto theneweditionof
theErusydopm
U
a."—
Fm
m
c
isJjwsxxr.
MACLAREN.— GEOLOGY OF FIFE AND THE LOTHIANSI
IncludingDetailedDescriptionsofArthur'sSeatandPentland Hills. B
yCharlesM
aelaren,
Esq.fT
r.8. E. Illustratedwith80W
oodcuts, II G
eological Sections,and9colouredM
aps.
Fop.7s.O
d
.cloth.
MACCULLOCH.—THE RATE OF WAGES.
AnLayonthedicumatanccswhichdeterminetheRateofW
ages,and theConditionofthe
MALTE-BRUN.—A SYSTEM.OF UNIVERSAL GEOGRAPHY,
FoundedontoeW
orksofM
alte-BnmandBalbi. Em
bracingaHistoricalSketchofthePro-
grew ofGeographicalDiscovery,thePrinciplesofM
atnem
atloal andPhysicalGeography,and
acom
pleteDescription,fromtoemodrecentsouroos,ofalltheCountriesIntheW
orld,with
nnm
erou*StatisticalTables,endanAlphabeticalIndexof18,000Naum. O
nethickvolume,
8vo,8
0*
.doth.
••O
neofthemostcom
prehend**andbeatcandled booksofthedameverpublished. By U
s
arrangement,whichlasim
pleandingenious,toe bookiernedetoanswereverypurpoe*ofaGa-
eettew,asw
eHasacomplete8yttcmofGeography,theIndexcontainingreferenceto18,000names.
Itm
aybeextensivelyused, withgreatadvantage,tor purposesofeducation, and,aaaoasnpaet
endgeneralbookofreference,nobetteraanbepteoadonthelibraryehelf."—
BarrAmas.
10 CATALOGUE OF WORKS
MALTE-BRUN.-PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.
Principle*ofM
athem
atical*Physical, andPolitical Geography. ByM
. M
alte-Brun. ___
Edition. Improved bythe additionof the most reeent information, derived from various
sources. WithFourPlates. 8vo,ids.cloth.
“W
ethinkthetranslator*ofM
alte-Brun'sGeography,havedonegoodservicetothepublic,by
renderingsovaluablea workaccessibletotheEnglishreader.Edinbuiiob Rxvikw.
MALTE-BRUK—UWVERSAL GEOGRAPHY*
OraDescriptionofalltheParts O
ftheW
orld. ByM
.M
alte-Brun, Editorofthe“ Annales
desV
oyages,"Ac. dee. WithaCom
prehensive Indexof44,000Nam
es. Ninevolum
es, ttvo,
L.7,oloth.
MARSHALL.--ON SOLDIERS.
The Enlisting,Discharging, andPensioningofSoldiers,with theO
flB
o
lalDocum
entson theso
Branches ofMilitary Dutr. B
yHenry Marshall, F.R.S.E., Deputy-Inspector-General of
Arm
yHospitals. SecondEdition. 8vo,7s. ftl.cloth.
*
*Amost valuable book, and ought to be in the library ofevery medical officer in the public
service, whether of the army or navy.”—British and Fokhkk Mxmcal Rhvirw.
MAJEtTIN.—THE SEAMANS ARITHMETIC}
OrtheApplicationoftheseveralRulesofthatSdenoetothepurposesoftheM
aritimeProfes­
sion: beingintendedasan Introductionto the YoungM
ariner preparatoryto his learning
Navigation, andforhissubsequentguidance. ByJohnMartin,Agent, Kincardine. 18m
o,
fls.fid.doth.
"W
edoubtnot*TheSeaman'sArithmetic'will meetwiththat general favourtowhichitsIn­
trinsicexcellenceandusefulcapabilitiessofullyentitleIt."—
Calrdonian Mercobt.
MARTIN, <AIME.|—
THE EDUCATION OF MOTHERS OF FAMILIES;
O
rtheCivilisationoftheHum
anRaceofW
om
en. ByM
-AhneMartin. Beingtheworkto
whichthePrlreoftheFrenchA
cadem
yw
asawarded. TranslatedfromtheThirdParis Edi­
tion. ByEdwinLee,Esq.,M
em
beror the PrincipalEuropeanM
edical andChlrurglcalSo­
cieties,AuthoroftheBathsofGerm
any,A
o.Ac. 8vo,10s.6d.doth.
MATHER.—AN ACCOUNT OF T «E SHIP LIFE BOAT.
B
yJamesMather, Esq. M
em
ber ofthe Royal PhysicalSociety, M
emberofthe W
ernerian
Sodety,Ac.A
c. SecondEdition. 8vo,la sew
ed.
M ATTHEW.— EMIGRATION FIELDS:
NorthAmerica,theCape,Australia,andN
ewZealand,describingtheseCountries,andgiving
acom
parativeviewoftheadvantagestheypresentto British Settlers. B
yPatrick Matthew,
Authorof“ NavalTimberandArboriculture." WithtwoFolioM
aps,engravedbySydney
Hall Post8vo,8s.8d.cloth.
*
<Theinformationcontainedin thisworkisofsuchanature,thateveryonew
hohasaninten-
tionofemigrating,should,beforefixinguponanycountryashisfutureresidence,consulttheEmi­
gration Fib
u
m
."—
Dtramxu Crroniolr.
MATTHEW.-NAVAL TIMBER AND ARBORICULTURE.
BeingaTreatiseonthatsubject,withCriticalN
otesonAuthorswhohaverecentlytreatedthe
subjectofplanting. B
yPatrickM
atthew. 8vo,18s.cloth.
MENZEL.—EUROPE IN 1840.
TranslatedfromtheGerm
anofW
olfgangM
enrel. Postl«mo,fis.doth.
u Aworkwhicheverypoliticianwilldowelltoconsult."—
EcuccncRxvw
vr.
MILLER.— THE PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY.
B
yJames M
iller,F.R.8.E.,Professor ofSurgeryin the UniversityofEdinburgh, A
c fee.
Small8vo,O
s
.doth.
“Anadmirable epitomeofthesurgical scienceoftheday. Beingwrittenbyasoundpractical
surgeon,accustom
edtothe publicteachingofhisscience, it hasthat dearnessofdictionandar­
rangementwhichrendersitanexcellentmanual forthe student,aswellasthatamountofscien­
tificand practical information whichm
akesit a safeand valuableguideto thepractitioner.”—
Lancet.
MILLER.—THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY.
B
yJamesMiller,F.R.B
.F..,ProfessorofSurgeryInthe UniversityofEdinburgh,A
c. Uni­
formwith“the Principles." Inthe press.
MILLER.—
SCENESA
N
DL
E
G
E
N
D
SO
FTH
EN
O
R
THO
FSC
O
TLA
N
D
.
ByHughM
filer. Small8vo, fid.doth.
“ Awellimagined,awellwritten,andasomewhatremarkablebook."—
A
t
h
x
n
jb
t
t
m
.
“ Averypleasingandinterestingbookj hisstylehasapurifyandelegancewhiebremindone
ofIrving,orofIrving'smuster,Gddsmith."—
HncrATon.
“Ahighlyam
usingand interestingbook,writtenbya remarkableman,whowill infalliblybe
wellknown."—
Libor Hunt’* Journal.
PUBLISHED BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK* 11
M
ILLER-PICTORIALANA
TO
M
Y
. ^
AnIntroductoryLecturedeliveredtotboStudent*oftheSchool«TDesign. ByJamesHiller,
F.R.8.£., Ac. &c.,ProfessorofSurgeryInthe UnivenderofEdinburgh. 8vo,1
*
.sewed.
M
O
IR AND SPALDING— PO
E
T
R
Y
, R
O
M
A
N
C
E, AND R
H
E
T
O
R
IC
.
ByW
illiamBpuldlng,ProfessorV RhetoricIntheUniversityofEdinburgh,endGeorgeM
olr,
Esq.Advocate. Poetavo,6*.cloth. *
*
*Thearticle*Poetry,byProfessor Molr,’1
>prefhoedbyaneloquentandperspicuousexposition
ofthementalandmoralqualitiesrequisitetoitsproduction; andthedistinctionbetweenthepro-
vlucoofimaginationandofihucyevinces " " «
GAzxrrz.
at onooaccurateandprofound.’’
—
Kaxrxa
M
O
O
R
E—ELEM
EN
TA LING
UAGRACA.
StudioJacobiM
oore,LL.D. EmendavitauxitqueJacobusTate,A.M.,Cantab. EditioQuinta
Correctlor.
TothisEditionisaddedanAppendix,containinga listofIrregularand DefectiveGreekVerbs,
andaSynopsisoftheIndeclinablePartsofSpeech. ISmo,8s.6d. bound.
MUSHET— W
R
O
N
G
SO
FTH
EA
N
IM
A
LW
O
R
L
D
.
TowhichissubjoinedtheSpeechofLordErskineonthesamesubject. By DavidMushet,Esq.
8vo,8s.doth.
NEILL.-—
THE FR
U
IT
, F
L
O
W
E
R
, ANDK
IT
C
H
E
NG
A
R
O
EN
. _
B
yPatrickNeill,LL.D.,F.B.8.E.,SecretarytotheCaledonianHorticulturalB
oolety. Third
Edition. R
evfm
siandImproved,Illustratedwithupwardsof00W
oodouts. Post8vo,gs.doth.
" O
neoftliebestmodembooksonGardeningextant."—
Loudon's Gardbukm's Maoaxwb.
*
‘Practicalgardenersandamateursow
eadebtofgratitudetohimforhisexcellentworkonHor•
tlculture,which isnowoneofthe standard worksonthebranchoftoienoeofwhichittreats.*’
—
Paovjow
oftDunbar's bpaxuriNraxCaaodonian HoaTicuuroiUi.Sycutxy,
NIMROD.—
THE H
O
R
SEANDTHE H
O
U
N
D;
Their variousU
ses and Treatment, In-doomand Out; Including Practical Instruction hi
Honenunship. Towhichisadded,aTreatise ouHorse-Dealing,wheremisenforcedtin ne­
cessityfor“ Caveatemptor,"andarecitalgivenofsom
eofthetintLegalandVeterinaryAu­
thoritiesonthequestionofBoundnessandUnsoundneasofHorses. ByNimrod. B
eoondRdi.
tion,withnumerousIllustrations onW
oodandSteel,after DrawingsbyCooper,Aiken,1
1
a
*
reoger,audFcmeleyofM
eltonM
owbray. Post8vo,lik.doth.
NUGENT—PO
C
K
ETD
IC
TIO
N
A
R
YO
FTH
EFR
E
N
C
HA
ND E
N
G
L
ISHL
A
N
-
G
U
A
G
K
B
. In twoParts, 1st, French and English; 8d, Englishand French,containingall
W
ordsofGeneralT
Jse,andauthorisedbythebestWriters. AsalsotheseveralPartsoftipeedt.
The GendersoftheFrench Nouns,the Naval and Military Terms,aList ofProperNames,
&
c.A
c. AnewEdition,carefullyrevisedandenlarged byJ. Ouiseaux,A.M. SquareISmo,
7*
.O
d
.bound; orPearl,fie.6d,bound.
OSWALD.-AN E
T
Y
M
O
L
O
G
IC
A
L D
IC
TIO
N
A
R
Y O
FTH
E E
N
G
L
ISH LA
N
­
GUAGE,ona Plan entirely new,adapted to the M
odemSystemofTuition. Bythe Her.
JohnO
sw
ald,lateMasterinGeoigeHeriot’sHospital. FourthEdition. l8rao,8s.O
d
.bound.
“Thisverylaboriouscompilation deservestobeintroduced into everyschoolwhentheEnglish
Languageistaught.*'—
A
tju
k
jb
v
m
.
O SW A LD .-A N ETY
M
O
L
O
G
IC
A
L M
AN
U
A
L O
F TH
E E
N
G
L
ISH L
A
N
­
GUAGE,fortheU
seofSchoolsandPrivateFamilies. EleventhEdition,priceis.8d.doth.
OSWALD—O
UTLINESO
F E
N
G
L
ISHG
R
A
M
M
A
R
.
Fifth Edition, price Sd.
OSWALD—ETY
M
O
LO
G
IC
A
LP
R
IM
E
R
.
PartFirst. TwelfthEdition,Id.
OSWALD -ETYM
OLOGICALPR
IM
E
R
.
PartBeoond. FourthEdition,0d.
PARNKLL— FISH
E
SO
FTH
E F
R
IT
HO
F FO
R
TH
;
Their Natural and Econom
ical History. ByRichard Paruell,M
. D., F.R.8. E. With 07
Figures. 8vo,8s.cJoth.
PEEL— SIRR
O
BER
TPEELAND H
IS E
R
A
.
Post8vo,7*fid.doth,
PHILLIPS—ATR
EA
TISEO
NG
E
O
L
O
G
Y
.
B
yJohnPhillips,F.&
.8.,F.G.8.,ProlessorofG
eologyin King'sCollege, London,Author
of'*Illustration-*oftheG
eologyofYorkahlrc,”**AGuidetoGeology,”Ac.&
o. Em
bellished
withPlatesendW
oodcuts. ForiSvo,4
b.doth.
“Theauthorhasselectedandcom
binedallthediscoverieswhichhavebeenmadeinG
eologyup
tothepresenttime,”—
M
oaxrnoH
x
h
a
l
o
.
PILLANS— PR
IN
C
IPLESO
F E
L
E
M
E
N
T
A
R
YTEA
C
H
IN
G
,
Chieflyinreferencetothe Parochial SchoolsofScotland in TwoLetters toT. F.Kennedy,
Fan.M
.P. B
yJamesPitians, F-R.8.E.,lateRector oftheHighW
ehool,andnow Professor
ofHumanityinthe UnlvexrityofEdinburgh* Poet8vo,8s.boards.
12 CATALOGUE OF WORKS
AM wtfoa mem the Orrdlom, BpWiss, end PhBoeopbioal Dialogues of ( to e >to whichare
added selected Letter* ofFtoy the Younger. Am used tn tom dletinot dlvWone; being in*
tended to give the strifcnxs700th a specimen ofOeeto’s compositions to different aspects of Mi
chametert 1. M m Q iT rj *. as a Mas ofthe World and a Member ofSodatyi andg.aa*
lJ&
no,to fld.doth.
paX.ANS.-ON C
LA
SSIC
A
LE
D
U
C
A
TIO
N
.
The Proper OtyeclBand M efhofeofEducatlon, in refereeoe to the dMArent Orders ef Society,
and on the relative utility ofCbualoal Instruction being Three Lectures delivered to the Uni­
versity of Edinburgh. By lame* PUtoas, M. A ., F. R. 9. S ., Professor of Humanity In that
Univerity. too# to sewea.
RAM
SAY.-AN E
SSA
YO
NTH
EO
ISTR
IBU
TIO
NO
FW
E
A
L
T
H
.
B
yQ tngt Baauty, B. X< 0 /Trinity Coltec., ouobiM f.. 8ro, l i . doth.
RAMSAY.—AD
ISQ
U
ISITIO
NO
NG
O
V
E
R
N
M
E
N
T
.
By George Bammy, B. M. ofTrinity College, Cambridge. Foolscap, 4s. doth.
R
AM
SAY.-"PO
LITIC
A
LD
ISC
O
U
R
SE
S.
1. On what le Government founded, a
. On Civil liberty; 8. On Tote by Ballot; 4 On
Banality and Inequality; $, On Central and Local Systems. By George Bammy, B. M.
Trinity College, Cambridge. 8vo, to doth.
ROBERTSON.-REPORTOrTH
EA
U
C
H
T
E
R
A
R
D
E
RC
A
SE
.
TheBad of Kinnoull and the Bev. B. Yoon* against the Presbytery of Auohteraider By
Charles Robertson, Esq. Advocate,one of the Collector* of Derisions by appointment of the
Faculty of Advocates. Pudhhed by authority ofthe Court Two volumes, with Supplement,
too, fltodd. boards.
ROBERTSON.—
C
O
L
L
O
Q
U
IAD
EM
O
R
B
IS.
FmstlenetTheoretitoiQoertodbwet~eiiponels; ad usum Ingsnoae Juventutt*accommodate.
Auetors AtohUbaldo Robertson, M. D ., to. Ac. Edltio Tertia. lamo, 7s. fld. boards.
AN
DTH
EG
U
N
.
oTreattsMon Angttni
... The fetter by toe Aw_____ ______ __________ „ „ _
numerous Engravings on Wood and Steel. Post 8vo, ids fld doth.
'*The treatise on Shooting, by the Author of'ThoOaklelgb Shooting Code/ is written upon a
------------l
.— .-----" i companion on AnglingA one oftoe most
rntle art1thatexiste in our language; and
_________„ ____ rraerby James WUeon, Beq F B.8. F ,
lor of « The Oaklelgh Bhootfog Code.” Second Editon, with
A
c.«c< Th
numerousB
i
“ThetnattMonnnoonsg* bytne Author or*t
o
ooameigftsnoo
veryootnpmheuiveplan,andbeautifullyIllustrated. itscom
panion
Interesting,instructive,andagreeabletreatiseson*thegentleart1tha
willprobablybenotioedatgreaterlengthinafixturearticle.”—
Bows
rin probablybenotioedatgreaterlengthinafixture1
___ ___________
“Knowluwwbetothyutterdiscomfort,nay,todryutter eanfirion,thatabookhaslatelyap-
E idyolept*TheBodand(heGun/soamusinglywrittenandsocompleteInallitsparts,that
»AnottheleastoccasionforyoutoburthenHrM
urray'sShelveswithstelepreceptsthatnoone
attendto.”—
Pamacsto” DamanaNaumorSaunaFm
u
m
o
”avW
iujamScnara,Esq.
BO
O
ST.—
P
H
Y
SIO
L
O
G
YA
N
D
'PH
R
E
N
O
L
O
G
Y
. .
ByP.H.Beget,H.D.,SecretarytotheBoyalSociety,Ae.Ac.,AntheroftheFilthBridge-
waterTreatise. Twovolum
es,post8vo,lto doth.
” AluminousandmostcandidandImpartialaccountofPhrenology. . . . IntheTreatise
anPhysiology,thatscienceistreatedclearly,tolly,andinthesystematicznaxm
erwhichamasterly
Inslnwtorimgutadeptforthebenefitofhispupas."—
Tair’
sifangis.
rollin.-ancient history
CftheEgyptians, Carthaginians,Aaqrrians, Babylonians, M
odesandPersian* M
acedonians,
andGraders. ByM
.Bouta, late Principal cftin UniversityorParis, Ac. Ac. Translated
fromtheFrench. M
ewEdition. IllustratedwithHapeandotherEngravings. Into*V
o-
ofSodetofromtheUseoftheM
odemKingdom
sto thePeaceofParts|n I7fl8; InnSenesof
Letter*fromaNoblem
antoUsSon. Bewtamau,ewrimndtotheAaoerianofGrimVic-
torlao
TEngland. BomVolwatotoo,fltod*5r^
RU8SELL.—
ATREATISEONTH
ESTEA
ME
N
G
IN
E
.
TOastratedby>
4
8EngravingsonWood,andUBekUagPlatoeonE
M
ostcom
pletepadefanum
etantfaJ.
clearly,andlum
incN
uT
--- — “—‘
andasit explainsaU_______ _____
which everytneobanAtand engineerwillseeeivewith
StoeL Poet8vo,to doth.
Atthesam
etimeitbmethodically,
nbmofIllustration*ttteaveryehaapbook.
betogaboon
U yfinm n,
gmtoUedsrfthuimwrdiofflOBagmstageonWeed,and18FeldBfPlatoeanfltsel. Postsve^
' Aw
cochan SteamandSteamBavigetton,hi whiskm
kencaand
PUBLISHED BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK. IS
SHAW
.-DEVELOPM
ENTANP G
R
O
W
THO
FSA
LM
O
N F
R
Y
,
BringExperimentalObeervationafromtheBxdUslonoftheO
vatotheA
goofTwoTwn. By
JohnShaw,Drumlaarig. WithtwoEagretrings,4to,ta.ad.sewed. 7
wHintthemSetamaynothoregardedmtheresultofhastao*ofenumadalobservation,wemay
mentionthattheIngeniousauthorluwreddedalmostdaringhisqnPftl&febythebanksofsalmon
'‘
streams,nodthat buopportunitieshavethus beenasampleasvfrAiftmhiseffortshavebeenun-
remittingandlaborious,toascertainthegenuinehistoryofthisnodeandmostvaluableqpeoles.
Blackwood's Maoaanm,Amu. 1049.
____ TheRodandtheGun." BytheAuthorof" The
1thPlatesandW
oodcut*. Posttaro, A.doth.
••• The“ OaklelghShootingCode"isnowwithdrawnfromcirculation,thepresentvolumeem-
bracingalltheoontentsofthatworkwhichthe authordeemedworthyofpreservation,aswellas
muchnewmatter,theresultofhieenlargedexperienceandmorematuredopinions.
SHORTREDE.—LO
G
A
R
ITH
M
IC TABLES TO SEVEN PLACES 0F D
E
C
I­
M
ALS,containing LogarithmstoBombersfrom1toitO'O
OO
,BomberstoLogarithmsfrom.0
to1
*000
00,LogarithmicSinesand Tangentsto everysecondoftheCircle,withArgnmentain
Spaoeand Time, and Bew Astronomical and Q
codeeloal Tables. By Robert Hhortrede,
F.R.A.8.,Ao., CaptainH.E.I.C
.8.,andFirst Assistantofthe GreatTrigonometricalSur-
veyofIndia. Imperial8vo,4ta.cloth.
SIMPSON.-THE PH
ILO
SO
PH
YO
FEDUCATIO
N,
WithitsPractical ApplicationtoaSystemandFlanofPopular Education asaNationalO
b*
Ject. ByJamesSimpson,Esq.Advocate. SecondEdition. lSmo,4s.boards.
“ ItshouldbeinthehandsofeveryMendofhisaperieswhooanaffordtopurchaseit/'—
Lxwx
Hum's J oummju
SMITH.— THE W
EALTHO
FNATIONS. _
AnInquiryintotheNature andCausesoftheWealthofNations. ByAdamSmith,LL.D. ;
withtheLifeoftheAuthor,anIntroductoryPtawmitc,Botes,andSupplementalDtaasrtaHoni,
byJ R.M
'Oulioch,Esq. AnewEdition,correctedthroughout, andgreatlyenlarged. With
twoPortraits, evo,M
s.doth.
••• ThisEditioneontainselaborateBotesontheComlaws,thePoorlawAct*theColonies,fro.
STARK.—
PICTUREO
F EDIN
BU
R
G
H
,
ContainingaDescriptionoftheCityanditsenvirons. ByJ. Stark,P.B.S.E. fflxthEdition,
improved? WithanewPlanoftheCity,and Forty-EightViewsofthePrincipal Buildings,
lamo,8a.roan.
STEVENSON.-M
ARINE SU
R
V
EY
IN
GAND H
Y
D
R
O
M
ETR
Y
. _ _ ^__
BeingaTreatiseontheirApplicationtotheFxactloeofCivilEngineering. ByBwilStam.
•on.Civil Engineer, Authorof" ASketchofthe aril EngineeringcfAmevfaa,"As. Illus­
tratedbyThirteenPlates,aColouredChart,andnumerousEngraving*onWool. Royaltvo,
tied by I
ucloth.
" Aworkofmoreextensivepractical utility, momcertainto bringhonourtoits author,and
" fmfflw
tcome uT
|itfrour "—xs—
«
«
. u i^ ^ w .
coniferlastingbenefitonhisprofession,hassel
STR
A
TTO
N
.—
G
A
ELICDER
IV
A
TIO
N
S.
TheDerivationofmany Classical Proper Namesfromthe G
aeH
oLaagua
"
*
■
' * ’•BringFartThirdofanInquiryintothepartlyCeltic Originoft
iyThomaeStratton, M
.D.,Edinburgh,HonoraryM
emberofthe
Umo,la Sd.sewed.
SYM
E.—
DISEASES O
FTHERECTUM
. .. .
ATreatiwbyJamesSyme,F.R.S.E., ProfessorofClinicalSurgeryIntheUniversityofEdin*
burgh,Ac.Ac. 8vo,5adoth.
TH
O
M
SO
N
.—
CH
EM
ISTRYO
FA
N
IM
A
LBO
D
IES. t
By ThomasThomson, M
. D., RegiusPro/bwor ofChemistryin the Uhfvecriiy of Ofatigow
,
F.B.88.L.amiE.,Ac.Ac. 8vo, IC
S
. doth.
" Thechymlstwhoprefershis owninvestigation tothe sometimescolouredview*arrivedatby
others,willselecttheworkw
earenownoticingashistextbook andguidetoAnimalCAytahtay,
inpreferencetoallotherswhichhaveappearedinthiscountry."—
A
iw
ai*orCanon**.
TH
O
M
SO
N
.—
THE L
A
WO
FBILLSO
FEXCH
ANG
E a ^ _
PromissoryNote*,Ac. ATreatiesbyRobertThomson,Esq.Advocate. Bem
udEdition. In*
dudingaSummaryof3)cobton%RomandEnglish,tothePresentTime. 8vo,Madoth.
StewartTiafll,M.D- F. R.0 . A
c. Ao.,
RegiusProfiM
w
rofM
sdJtariJmAprudeneeandM
edicalPoliosin thetftrfverdtyofEdinburgh.
SecondEdition. Porttvo,Sadotia
TheseO
utU
&
m
tnuyIndeedbertootnmendedaspresentinganexcellentoom
pendJousviewofthe
presentstateofthedoctrinesInM
edicalJurisprudence\ andtheywillserveasauseful guide,not
onlyforinitiating berinners,hutfhrconductingthe studentinhis subesquentprosecutionofthe
edtieot,eithergenerallyorinilltiMUri*.”—
EomaaoiJfemcsr.anaSuaanutiw u u u
▼
eirityofEdinburgh,A
o.Ac. Poet8ro,8s.doth.
“ Ameetetahoratadigestoftadsjudiciouslyarranged,and,aeageneralenpmfrifln,perhagetine
modcompletethathasyetappeaeed/^LsamsMeaeoav.
14 CATALOGUE OF WORKS.
TYTLFR, —
THE '1'STO
RY O
FSCO
TLAND*
From the Coutrib r'on of Patrick Fraser Tytler, I »q to the Fmoyclowdia Britannica, Tn
larged and Gontmu othe Present 9iroe, bythe Rev James Taylor A M, and Adapt) d to
the Purposebof lull Alexai tier Beid,AM,Hector of the Circus PlaceSehoOl, Pdin
burgh lJrao, 8s 6uv i
WALLACF —CONfC * ^'TlONS
A Geometrical Tttatise on the Com elections, with an Appen hx containing Formula* for
their Quadrature, dt< ByWilliamWallace, AM 1 E b t , lute ProfessorofMathematics
In theUniversity of1dlnbuigh, &( U 8u>, O
s cloth
WALLACE -GEOM
ETRICAL TH
EO
REM
SANDA
NALYTICALFO
R
M
U
L
/E
Tilth thtir Application to the Solution rf (ertain frtoItUeal Pioblem* and an Appendix,
dMMlbng two copying Instruments Bj William Wallice IT D J E H F . f B AS ,
MCamh P n %
t , Emoritu* Profuaor of Matbimitits Lmverslty ot Edinburgh With
Copperplatesand Lngravinge on Wood 8so, C
h
i cloth
WARD! AW.—SERMONS
On %
ariotiesubject*, vie ChristCrocIfltfl the griat theme ofApostollcPreaching The Offence
of the Crw rustiflcatlon by Faith 1iitlfkation by Work* Nature and Ua s of Goc l
Wjrfcs truth falsely charged with bul Unipinen of True Btllgion Jhe ( roans and
Hopeiof the Creation lheMillennium, &c By Ralph Wardlaw, D 1) , Glasgow 6vo, is
doth
W
ATTEAU-THE ORNAM
ENTAL D
ESIG
N
SO
FW
ATTEAU,
Fainter to I oits XT\ oolleotcd from hi* \\ <>rk»,and I ithogmj hed in the highest style ofthe
Art bv W Nichol, lAlmburgh fell o beautifully bound m nioroccc gilt i lgc
u Ilthographed Ina very beauttfil mn u t and inteiest ng as a work ol art, as well as most
uesftil to all engaged in manufacture.b —Mi ia m >Coiniues U k ia jj
W
ER
N
ER
IA
NNATURAL H
IST
O
R
YSO
C
IETY M
E
M
O
IR
S
Comprising—I Mr I uuntnghn u s fn/« f way on tho G ilcgyof the TothHns with thirty
five t oloured Hedions, and a f *1 1»gic »
! M
ay ol th Tpthmi,*. —11 Hr I arn 1
1n Prize *way
O
Bthe Flshe*or the District of 1h 1 rth wth ixty a veil ill istrativc 1lgums—
III History
offheftodely from December 18U 1
1 ipiil llUH AlwoTols iv v vi vu and via L 1, Is
WIENHOLT —SOMNAMBULISM
Re^ah Lectures Translated firwi tt i f*trmnu of T
>
t Amdll W\cnli It Witb a Preface, In
troduction, Notes, ani an Vjpendix 13yJ ( tdquhoun, Esq Alvocatc, Author of “ 1m
s
Bevdata, At 1ool«up 8v( 4* 1corla
u We reocmmei 1this volume to nilwho ftel an inttrost In tho subject*ol whichit treats Both
the Leotures ot Witnholt aud tho Notes Ayp<ndix, At ot MrGolquhoun, arc itpicto with mate
rialsfor thinking —
J ukBujx.
WILSON-A V
O
Y
A
G
E RO
UNDTHE COASTS O
FSCO
TLANDANDTHE
IftXEH By J" ies Wilson, F R “
I F, M WF , A
so, Author of the Treatise on Angling in
*
*TheRod ar 1the Guu With a Map ot Scotland <
xliibiting the lmot of the Vo\ age a
Chart of \ilda, Twenty Etchings on bteel by ( hailcs II Wilson, AES A, from Sketches
duringthe Voyage, byM
irThomas HickI auder Bxrt andnumerousWoed bngTaviiig„from
the same Sketches, drawn by MontagueStanley, Prior, and Sarg<nt, and engraved by Bran
aton, Landtlls, and other Artitts Two aolumes, port 8vo, Sin cloth
" Written Ina flowing and animated style Those who wl h to know Scotland in its
Coastsand Island will uerUe from tills work both instruction and pleasure those who desire to
know the value of their country and its Institutions as shown evenIn the most inac<iasibleparts
of its remotest provinces, willj ondcr ovcr its contents and the general readtr who setk*only for
that rational amusemeut which the p*rsonal narrative ot a lively and intelligent tomtatneverfails
to yield, will AndIt In these volumes —
Kuinbukgh Rk
autw
W
ILSON.—
NATURAL H
ISTO
R
YO
F BIRDS,
Beingthe Article “ Ornithology, from the Seventh Edition of tho EncyclopaediaBntannlca
By eatnes Wilson, F R 4 1 , M W S , flic &c Illustrated with U5 ligures, btautifully
engrated on steel 4io, l«s boards
" The structure, clasaifhatian, and descriptions ofBirds are passed through in the able manner
toe have before bad the j Iwwuu ofcommending in Mr Wilson svolumes * 9he plates
are in much the same excellent bt>It osin pm ding volumes —
ThuNa h kai ui, w>tian ay N*
m i x Wo
o
d
, Em
i
WILSON-THE NATURALH
ISTO
R
YO
FQ
UADRUPEDSANDW
H
A
LES
With upward* of ISOligures tngra\td on steel By James Wilson, F B S E , M W 8 ,
A
re 4to, 1Jte boards
WIISON-A G
EN
ER
A
LANDSY
STEM
A
TICTREATISEON INSECTS
Wlth 640Figures,engraved on steel By James WUson,F R 8 E , M W 8 , dec 4to, 16s.
boards
WIL80N - AN INTRO
DUCTIO
N TO THE NATURAL H
IST
O
R
Y O
F
F IW * With 181 rigures engraved on steel By James Wilson,F R 8 E , M W S,
&c 4to, fls boards i
W
ITH
AM-THE INTERNALlTW
lCTURE O
FFO
SSILV
E
G
FT
A
B
L
E
Sy
Formedin the Carbonifero^andJitmtio^D«T^taiif Great Bntnin, desinbed and Illustrated
B;ureat aesmneu ana mustratea
^ R S 1 ,4c With lb hngmviuga
