{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1839__combe___lectures_on_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Lectures On Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
I
LECTURES
ON
PHRENOLOGY;
J
BY GEORGE COMBE, EsQ.
,,
IJr.LVDJlCG ITS APPLICATIO!f TO THE rRJ:IE!.'T ARD PR08PJ:C:TIY&
C:OlCDITIO!f OF THE VlCITED IY..ATES.
WrfH NOTES, AN INTRODUCTORY ESSAY, AND AN IIISTORICAL
SKf:TCit:
B\' AN DR E 'V B 0 A R D 1\l A N,
•
R-l'dinr Secretary or tho Phl't'nolo11ca1 Sociot)' oC New•York
•• 'l'lu. ia truth thou,b 1\t enmity with the philoaophy or aces."-GA.t.r..
~-'--- __..,_S!
.......
ANFORD
.LIBRARIES
'NEW-YORK:
P U B L I 8 H E D D Y 8 A M U E L C 0 L ll A N,
No. 8, AaToR•Hovaa.
· ~
MDCCCXXXIX.
1 I" ' ~) l -•
1
1 ' " J
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
...
f-.......
-......
- -~-.-
NAMES OF THE PHRENOLOCICAL ORCANS.
I'•:.MKIXU 1'0 TJIK ..JI\HIKJCS lMUlCA.'rJNG 'l'HI>JIC lt.ELJ\'tlVI~ J'OSlTlO!I
. .
A P p ·a (.~'I' l VB .:rN T B.L.lt;8 t~T UA.i.
'r'JINS.l'rl.S. 1/..'IE.Jf'l'/MEN'l'.'i , I.PIU:ICII'PTTVI(, /1./Cb'YI.h'CT,IV'H.
,,,.....,s.. 111 ,,,,._,..,,.,,., ~ .. l1ui•i·Ulu<tlrl,.r u '''"IHl"~••
·-
"1'"'8"''"·..--,; /.ro·r t'f' .,,.,,.,.,,._ ;:.J Ft'IWI ,J;i r.u.e/l~r
,.,,,..,___ IZ r.,,,.,.,,#l,...u · :>1- 3tiU'
h.Ww~r• ·. CJ II,H,r<'l•- :..~ W••1At .
MtHo,r.u u. ,.,;.,,..,,,_. Z6 (ri..N......,
..,,,.,_, 16 ,.F.,_,,, :7 J.tt~alc'C,•
~IHNI!If tl
Ciftl~i'"''--· Zit x......,r
.....,....,.,.. 17 N•r' :~ l1rd•r
,,.~.,..
"'
.._,,.
·"' b'•r~tluttlt'(y
...,..
_, /,Y ld•cl•'o- .$1 r.;..,.
..........~. lila L,.,, rf'·"'' lufol&,., 3Z r..,.,
...~.. Zl' tf\i ,.,. Atc'rtAAI•N.• .u ~-,....,,,izedby( oogle
::I ,.,.,;,,.,.
of\ t)
~ ... .
OX ~'"->.,cape Cotlftgo, Portland, Mtdnf'.
v <:., ''.>
, ,"L 30th July, 1H!l9.
ANDRf.W BOARDMAN, •:stl.
My denr Sir.
I have rend yonl'
rcJlOrltl of my Lectut·c~ on Phrenology, and beg to
extJress my l'utisf~tction with their essential concct-
nr.g~. Yon as){ if I have nny objection to your pnh-
lishiug the reports in n sepnrate volume.-As tlw
Ameriean publishers of my w.ork£.:, Messrs. l\lursh!
Capen, Lyon & Co. of Boston, hure given their cnn-
tent, you have my full concurrence in your doing
••
I am,
My dear Sir,
Yours sincerely.
GEORGE COMBE.
lldend eccordiac to Act "f Congrea. io the 1ear 1839, b1
SAMUEL .COLMAN,
Ia tt;.e.c.....Oflice of tile Dietrict Court of the Southern Ditcrict
of New-York.
•
Dl •izedbyG ogle
PREFACE.
raft&NOLOGISTS, deeply regretting that opinions the. tnOBt defatn.ttory
and erroneous were promulgated concerning the sci:mce of their coo·
victionsand affections, producing a prevalent belief that it is the effusion
of1\ bewildered imagination, believed in only by the weak and enthusi·
w;tic, hailed the arrival of i\lr. Combe with peculiar pleasure, confident
that hi!J laboul'!l would greatly tend to give currency to more correct'.
'·icwe. Brit knowing the small proportion th:\t his n'udiences, howe\·er
uumerous, would bear to the whole community; knowing too. the
llecting nature of unwrattcn words, l determined, in :111 humble way,
to aid his etiorts to diffuse a knowledge of that science to which he hu
devoted hi!J future life. I acr.nrtlingly oiTercd to furnish the New·York
Du-ily :md New·York \Veekly W hig with condensed reporu of hil
lectures. These were accepted. published, and eagerly sought nfter.
The publisher 1111id that nothing issued in this city during lost winter,
··had taken eo well." They were copied in yart, by ,·arious papel'll
throughout the Union, and entire by the Toronto Palladium.
I commenced these reports without the fitintest idea ofeyer deriving
from them pecuniary advantage, or of ever publishing them collectively:
bnt being nrged to do eo by several gentlemen, friendly to Phrenology.
of high atanding ia the medical profession, I mentioned the propoai·
tion to Mr. Colman, \vho offered to form an arl'!lngement with we for
carrying it into effecL I wrote to .Mr. Combe for permission, who
cenerously ga,.e to me his •• hearty consenL"
Previously to concluding the foregoing arrangements, Mr. Combe had
yielded to the solicitations of hia New·York frieoda, that he would again
lectore in tbia city. I detenuil!.ed, therefore, not to publiah &ill bavinc
o, ,,zedtiyGoogle
i¥ PREPACB.
tekon notee of hi• ..-eond course. On thi• bein« known, the editon
of -the New-Yorker desired the uao of my future reports, and effected
ua arransem~nt with Mr. Colmon, in consequence of which they were
pubiU.hed in their ably conducted journal. These hove·been cnrefuRy
rniMd ond corrected, and additions to them made. So altered, they
r.onatitute the reports ofthia volume, to the "essential correctneu" of
which tho rellrler haa the bellt of all tet~timony. thnt of 1\tr. Combe him-
eel£
For the original annotation,., the Introductory Eaaay, and the Hiet~
rieal Sketch, Ialone nm re!<pORIIible. In the Iotter, I might have epoken
of the phrenologicallectiJree ofnumerun11Americnn gentlemen, besides
thoee mentioned, l1ad linch a eour110 been compatible with my limill'.
That it wu not I rc~t.
I learn that the Southern Literary 1\leiiS<'nger i11 copying the rt>ports-
entire from tho New-Yorker. Whether any other pt>riodicnl ia doilll
10 I am not informed, but if not my origiu:~l dt>eiro is most nmply
aratified. Betide the munerona extract" which have npptmred in other
pllpel'!', the number of the entire report" distributed throughout the
United Statu llnd Brititlb America, in the New-York Doily Whig, the
New-York Weekly Whia, the Toronto Pnllndium, the New-Yorker,
and the Sontbt!na Literary )leta~eoger, will exceed twx,..fioe tltoutaatl.
With theN eaplanatof)' re•narka, I respectfully submit thia work 10
the pablie. A. B.
Jur.Bauow.n, Naw-YotlK, Anptt, 1839.
.,
.. ;
'.
·· ~
.. ,
.··.
.. ... ~ .
. . '.
.·.:·.·~...:
··..'
. . .,...
..
. I
·. \. ···:,'
. ~ ··./
--~'(\j
. I ·~:•..,1
· , _ ·~.... f
..... -~
·
,.. j
: •.._<'
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MR. COM BE.
\\'noEYER hns aceu 1\tr. Combe will recognize tne nrcurnl'y of the
ar~ompanying profile tal•en by l\lousicnr Etlonart,. in that atylo whicb
Lavater preferred to nil others for gh·ing the char:~cteri~tic exprcNOion
of tho connten:mrP.. 'l'ho~e who have bNh toeen and heart! him cnu
need their imprc~:oious neither fixing nor deepening. For those, espP.-
ciut:y phrenologists, who have not, the following sketch may poaseAS
some interest.
Mr. Comhe is rather tnll nnd sp:ue, with a narrow chest, largo head,
and nenothl-hilion!l temper:unen1. His hair, of siJ,·cry whiten~s!l, is 10
thinly $Cattercd ns to ll':t\·n con:~idcrahly espo~d hi<~ beautifully devrloped
frontal nnd coronal rt•ginnto, indicating that fine Jlrctlominance of the
mor:tl and inlellectnlll force" which hill works so eminently manifest.
The reftective nrc, howf'ver, e\·it!enlly his lllMt t>ffcctive f.1culties. His
form is r;lightly bent. not fr11m lnck of Self-utl'em, but from habitual
thonghtfnlue!IIS and fl•cblc phpical or:;nnization; thi:t Pli~ht hcnd and
thonghtfnl D!lpect, with tho MUO\\'Y whitene111 of hi:~ h tir, give the i1ll·
pres~ion that ho i:e much older than the kirk-rt'gister nllow11; the news-
. papers ~enernlly hn,·e ttl:\tell his nge at 11ixty; though he ha!l, in fuel,
paS!ied hi!ltiflieth birth-day in the United States. He h:~s enough orhU.
"native wood-note w·ilt.l'' to indicate that he apnmg from "the land of
the mountain and flood," bnt not so mncb M to impair distioctnea o(
utterance or correctnets of pronunciation.
Mr. Combe it not a splendid lecturer, nor a briUiant lectnrer, nor.a
•Thb pnlleman, whoso abilities u a Silbouettls& are; I :-u.,ve, un·~
taU Ne:en\IJ arrlvod from Enr;land, and taken up h1l rnl4eDCeiD New-Yorlt, wben
lie U Dow pursablf his professloaal aYocatlolll. ·
t•
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
,/
IIR. COifDB.
(a~~einatins lecturer. The current coin of eulogy, "J!orgeona fancy,''
"thrilling elnquence." ·'withering sarcnsm," "elfu'.:ent grace," would
be all.a;~appropriate if applied to him. Hi! langnage is full and ftow-
·in~; hie 11tyle familiar, cha•te, earnest, and llllambitions. Yon see from
the fiFIIUhnt he hua p:ss..ion for tmth; .that his gre:~t .aim is to enlighten
die nnder•tanding, ek!vate and purify tho feeling11; and in his intentne111
of purpose to aecomplillh that nim, all elap.trap artifices are elbowed
oft' tho atnge.
Hie •nbject is arranged in nntural con11ecutivene!!s in hi11 own mind,
and imparted in that order to the minds of others. His idea11 do not
buatle.:wd jostle for precedence. each hu its ndjnatcd place wherewith
it musl ~.-:content. He 11totes hi~ proposition!! clearly, and proceeds at
once to adduce the mo~t 11triking :mnlogie11, appropriate illnstratio.n•·
and convincin~ pronf11, mal<ing every proposition, a11 nu as prncticnble.
the foundatioa of that which IIUCceed!l. By this methodical mode of
procr.d!tre, the memory is greatly aided, and the judgment mnC'h
gratified.
It is aaid by Voltaire, that the art of interesting is the art of writin,.
The ·~~Dying is eminently applicable to lecturing, nnrl this urt Mr; Combto
poi!ICaes in a great degree ; few cnn belter rivet attention, or more
intensely interest the nobler feelings of our nature. This 11ketch would
be incemplete withont reference to thnt nuder current of hnmour which
10 of\cn sparkles to the !lllrfhce, fighting np with peculiar hrillinncy the
lecturer'• vivacious eye, and affording amusement while it is m:ed to
impre11 on the memory importnnt facts nnd principll's.
In eonclusioo, I would ttay that the lecturer creates au interest in
•i~~~~elf u great almost as in his subject, not by egoti11m in any of its
Protean forms, but by the union of profundity of thought with !!timpli-
eily of mannen an.d benevolenr.e of disposition. All he proceeds, tb~
ennyiction win. imperceptibly on the mind that he form11 one of d1at
11oble ela.-tbe great and good.
MR. COMBE'S LABOURS IN TIJF. llNITED STATE!~:.
.Mz. Combe landed in New-York, September, 1A:Jd. IJis.arrh·al wM
hailed by phreJiologiBts with pecnlinr intere~t nnrl plen~nre, :md l:e waA
nceiYed by all with·the rePpect and ('Ollrte"y dne to hill high c:hnm('ter
aad beneficent labour11. On the lOth ofOctober following, h.-commencecf
at Boston hia fim eonFIIO oflechJres in tho United States, too somewhat
aamerons and highly intelligent nndicnce, n ~rent proportion con~isting
•fmembera of the learned profe~~toiona. Of the11e ler.ture11, the Boston
lfedic:al and Surgical Journal remark11, "With a re,• interruptions, we
.... beatowed a thorough attention on the lectures or thia distingu1ahcd
..iloeopber, ~.their commencemeat in Boaton. We feel Do half.
'
Digitized by Google •
1\tR, COI\IRE. Til
wny sentiment!! upon the matter, nor nre wo dil'po!!ed to !111JlJll'f!!'l' what
we unfliuchiugly nckrwwlet.lgc to bu trne, vi7.. that 1\lr. Combe ill a
profound tr.lll, who ~ain:oupon the urat.ler,;tant.lia;g from tiny to da~·, by
the simple prct<entntiuus of truth. lie mullt be regarded n~ 110 :tbl&,
nay, nurivallecl tenchcr ofu ~<)""1<'111 which cnn alone explnin the pheno·
tnen:t of mind." At tl1e dMt! of this cotlr$f', Novembt•r Hth, 1~:\!l, tho·
nudicuce pa~setl n llerit•:4 of r<>!!OIIItiun" hi;.hly commt>tulatory of him:Jdf
nntl of hit~ lt•ctnrt•:<. I wrote to the t:ccrrtnr~· of that meeting rt•q•tOlltiti;
:t copy of the rct:olution:o, which nufortuuatdy he l:1.t.l mi,;placcl'. On
the •ut·ccetling eHmiug, n social entertainment wm; given to .Mr. Combe.
at the Tremont llotll<c, ut which he was prearented with a valuable silver
\"n~c of cha;:lt> nnJ cll•g:mt workm:m~hip.
i\fr. Comhl''s ~ecout.l eonr~<' of lc<"tnrc!l commenced in New-York,
un the l!lth of November, ni1t.l clo~ed on thl' 24th of Decerul>er. 18;~.
Here his 1111tlicnce wns mn<"h orthc ":une character :1s nt Boston,
At the clo!Oe of his course, the followi11g rc!lolutionil were unauimoul-
ly ndoptcd:
·• Rr~olrttl, Thallhe members ofthi' rtaea who h~n Allende.! the course ofphre-
nologicnl ·lectures de!ivetctl hy Geurge Combe, •:sq., 111 Clinton IIall, ••nJcrtain a
lively aense of obligntion tu the di•t ngui•h•·•l lt·t"wrrr for thr valuable iufioJ ma1iou
he has ('omnH:nicatc<ltn us durin~ the lrl"turr~ just rlt'Sl"d; that we ha"e been
greatly pJ,·n~o•l :on•l innrurted by th" ct. 11r, f,."liritnue, anti ror~vinr•ng mannf'r 1ft
which he has imra<tl'tlto u• hi• \"arie•l anti pruft•uutl kn••wle.l~e of the phtlMnphy
f'f mind; and th:tt we regard J:i>relloh•gy as emin.tutly calculated ''' advAnce the
oau~e of etlucntion, to impnu·e the instituliona of 80Citty a111i of ~overnment, and
to elevalf' the romliti11n ofthe human race.
" Ruolrnl, That in !11r. C••m~ .,... rrco!nize the mo~l sur.ceS!Iful advocate f'f
phrtnological adtllCe, the phibsopber IHod the phitanthropl$1; and th«t phr~nol•~y.
as explained anti illnitratetl by him, clainu•, in our oninor.n, th" aurntion of an
tboao who would lnvcui~ate mi11d philosoplticlllly, and who desire the di:Tu!iOD or
vuth anti the txaltalinn of the morMI and il'tellectual fac•Jlties of man.
"Re1olr~tl, Thnl in the RJll>licntion of pltrcnulo~y In the invet~tigation of human
character, anti the practical purpo~u ••f lilt>, we J'l':t"tiYe a new era in mental an•'
pbyaiological ~cir.nrt, in wlairb ,..e bellr\·r human rnqniry ""ill be greatly farilitatrtl.
tltlllthe amount ••f hum~n hRppinl'~s ~•srntially incrl'aFed.
"Re~olt'tJ, That inumuch na prf'juc!ko• n1ny tiNrr many Individuals from 1111rnd·
lnJ Mr. C••ml>c'e l~rturl's in other <"ilit• of t>llr cut•r•try, which he propoocs tn '"i•h.
O&llll na the tnllh and importance of phrrnok~y ran toe nntlrNino•l ami :apprrt"l:stt'll
only after an examination of its prin<"iplcs, ''"e recommend to such citizens ftn
attendance upon bis '"tire rt>o.-·•e; bt"ing con\"inc<'d that lhry will find their own
advantage in doing so, and that they wiil thereby bec.omo beUer able to judcc or
the truth tulc! pr.:oclical utility of the sciellce.
" Ruol~ttl, That cntcrt11ining thcoe \"iowa and fr<"iings, wo take great ptnsur.
In tcndenng an e~.,rcsslon of them to 111r. Cumbo, and in adding our most heart)
wllbea for his personal happinesa, and for lua lonr-continuod usefulne11 to Me
fcllow·men.
•• ~10lHl, That Silu Jonfl, Esq., Counaellor at Law 111••.\ Supt'rint~nt of
..
Do oizedbyGoogle
yjjj IlL COUDE.
&be ~ew-Y_ork Jnstltutlon for the Dhnd; Judah Rammond, Etoq., J11dge of the
Marine Court7J-;;iiii·n. Scolt, ESq.,Tuiliie of the NJ.rlno Court; Lorins D. Cha~
ln&ll, E~q., M~mbcr ofU~o Now-York Legislature, &c.; Robert Seds•·:ck, Eaq.,
t;ounael:or at Law,&c.; C. A.J.eo, M.D., Profcssc.rof Materia Medica lnlh~t Now·
York UniVersity; 11. F. Jos:in.l\i. D., Professor of Mathematics and Natural Phllo-
IOphy In &ho.Now-Ynrk University; E. J.>armloy, M.D.; J. Neil110n,N. D.; J. W.
Frilneht, M. D ; A. 8. Doane, l'rofeasor of P·loysiolol)' in tho Now-York Unlvenlty,
v.Jeb Ticknor, ~rufonor of Uyzlero In ih~ Now-York University; and Joel Foa-
ter, M.-D.., be a commitlco to present to Mr. Combe the foNsolns roaoluUona, and.
t • P1Jhli.sh tllo a'amo In tho newspapora of thla city."·
JoBK B. Scon, ChAirman.
N&w•You, Dec. 21, 1838.
On four of the evenings nnapprClprintcd to his.phrenological coune.
Mr. Combe lectured to the New-York 1\lercantilc Librury AIISOeia-
lion, on the physical cow•titntion cf tn:m nnd i.- relations to the wind.
'l'he~~e lectureR wer& nllcm.Jed by onrwhelming auditucell.
· Mr. Combe',. third co•m•e wall commenced in Philadelphia, on the ·
4th or Jnnnary, oud endr.•l on the· 8th uf February, 1839. The num·
ben in.atlfmdnnce nmgell from 441 to 607, the former number being
that with which he commenced. 'J'he great attentions which he received
in the most ~~eientilic city of the Union, must have been peculiarly grati·
f1in~ to tbe lecturer. At the close of tbis eourl'e, the following resolu·
1io08 were. u.nanimously adopted:
"RcHlr~rl, That they hne listened with sreat pleuuro and mental profit to the
eoll'lprehcnsivo viewa of human nature, and to tho elucidationN of individual chu-
ader, 1e1 forth by Mr. Combo, In his lecture~ just completed; and, that, in these,
they rccosnlze many Important suggestion~ for the impro,·ement of Education and .
.larbp"Jdenco, and the con~cqllo.lt increase of tho happiness of mankind.
"Rtltll.erl, That a connnitteo be appointed to convey to Mr. Combe tho prcredlns
resolution, and a wish, on the pArt of this meeting, that he will be induced to repoa'
Ilia I'OUfiiO of lectureR Oil phronolngy."
Tho following gentlemen were appointed a committee to carry Into ell'ecl the
. forepng rcsolutionJ, •lz.-Nicholu Diddle, J.L. D., Joseph llartshorno. M. D.,
Benjamin W. Ricluud~. William Gih~on, 1\1. D., 111omu Harris, M. D., Alexllldor
Dallu Bache, Rembrandt Peale, Charles Picot, John Bell, M. p.
In enmplinnce with the la...t resolution, and the enrne!lt solicitntiODI
• or many private individlmls, 1\fr. Combe dcli,·ererl n second conue at
Philadclp!Jin,hetween the 20th of Murch and the 6th of April inclusive.
llavin' ateanwhile visited W11t1hington and other places, und deliver~d
at Wilmington a abort course of lectures oit l'hysical aud Mental
F.duca&ion.
At tho doiiO or Mr. CombP.'I eecond COIII'IIe of Lecture• on Phreno-
lo«r, in the IIoil of the Mn•icul Fund, 1\1arch 6, 1839,
On m01ion, Profeaor Snmulll 8. Wyliu wns ~led to the chair, and
Georp MeCiellan, M. D. appointed Secretarr.
o;9,tized by Google
MR~ COIIBB.
'the Rev. Chairman addressed the meeting on the propriety of mak-
ing some public expression ofthe satisfaction which the very numerous
class in nttendance had derived from·the lectures.
On motion, the following resolutions, offered by 1\lr. Tbomu Fi.aber.
were unanimou>?ly adopted:
"IU•olvrtl, That the class have listened with sreat Interest to the able and
highly instructi\·e exposition of Phrenology which Mr. Combe hOI$ offered us.
" R~6olvttl, 111at whatever may h.a,·e been 011r previous acquaintance with the
~uhjec:.t, tho l'Jcturesof :1~. Combe ha,·e impressed us.with u1uch respect for ltt
praclical im['Ortance, and with the kindliest feelin!l for the learned lecturer.
" Rt6olt•ttl, That l'hrenolory is recognized and commended u a science founded
hl Nature, b)· a largo portion of the most. distingui~hcd anatomists on both aidea
of tho Atlantic, and that we be\io,·o it to be the only adequate illustration ezlat-
ing, of tho won<ierfully nrious manifeatalions of the human mind. ·
" IU•olv~tl, That it will alford us plca.\>lfe, and that we believe it will be'highly
· acceptable to this comm•m1ty, that :\lr. Combe should make it consistent with his
arrangemenll in other cities, to give, during ne11t winter, another course In Phila·
tlelphia. ·
"Ruol.,eJ, That a· committe of seven sentlemen be appointed to communlca&e
tu ~r. Cotnbe a copy of these resolution•.''
The following gentlemen were acc:oruingly appointed-Samuel B. Wylie, D. D., •
!;a~muel George Morton, ~1. D., George f,fcCiellan, M.D., Chvl~s S. Coxe, Esq.,
JosP.ph Hartshorne, ~1. D., Thomu Gilpin, Esq., Thomas Fisher.
During l\lr. Combe's Rtay iu Philadelphia, a number or gentlemen
in New-York were engaged in organizing a cla~!l, that they might obtain
the serviees .,r1\lr. Combe, a secc>ud time. An invitntion was sent,and
Mr. Combe consented to repeat his course in New-York. He com-
menced on the 13th of April, and closed on the lSth of May.
..\t n mooting nr thE' Cia!'.., lu~ld on the 15th of ltlay, the following
gentlemen were aprointf!d a Commltt~e to prepare and report a papP.r
nnd resolution•, r.<pressi\·e orthe sentiment>~ orthe Cla.,s upon the sub-
ject or said Lectures, nnd their feelings towards 1\fr. Combe 111 a Lec-
turer, to wit;-Rev. l\lr. Sawyer, l\Ir. Boardman, ltcY. 1\lr. Sunder- •
land, and 1\lr. E. D. Hurlbut. On the 18th, llr. Hurlbut, from that
Comatittee, reported the foUowiog paper and resolutions, which were
uuanimously adupted:
"The second coune of Lectures upon Phrenology, deli•ered in thi• city by Mr.
George Combe, of Edinburgh, having cloeed, the member~~ of hie class are deairou1
of expressing their views o{ the acience which he hu taught, and the aenUmenta
•ntertained by them toward the distinguished Lecturer, ~rsonaily.
"He bu presented to us the .wonderful discovery of Dr. Gall, and ita practical
ln8uence upon the character and condition of man. That discotery waa chu.c-
terized by the moat minute attention to the lawa of our Ollaniution, by the moat
patiellt oblernUoD oC facta, 1114 by Uae cleductlon of lnBYitable coQclvalon~ froa
Uae&
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
MR. COMDB.-
., .,,,, . •· t
· "Dr. OlD abandoned the school of metaphysical 1peculallon ; and taltlnr to the,
oblerratlon of Nature,-he at lenrth presonted to tho world his sroat discovery of-
the true funcllona of tbe·braln, and of Ill various parts. We now look to Nature
for tbe foundation of the noble science of mental philosophy ; and the enlishtenecl
mlncl of the olcl worlcl, and of the new, 11 now engqed ill Wustratlnr and ell'tab·
Ueblnr it.
" Our own country bu.been twice honoured by visit• from the earliest and most
cifted adYO(:ates or tllie.1cienco. The noble and accomplished Spunhoim, a name
sacred to every frieRd of man, fell • victim to dle.
eue upon our shorea, while juet
openlnr the rl,:h fountain of his weU·stored Intellect to an American a•Jcllence.
1be lanpare of eulory falls altogether when employed upon so no!Jie a nature u
hil.
" Dut for thla we thank him....:.that he cllrected the mind ofa Combe to the eublime
· \ruth\ he had himselfembraced, and allowed his mantle to descend upon the gifted
tncllvldual to whom we have an listened with Intense Interest and delight. How
nobly bu he executed In cu r.ountry the work wbi.:h bia •groat ancl lamented
muter' bad berun !
11 He came not among us to earn IIJIJilanse, for of tha,t he had already enourh;
110r treuure, for we are bappy to know of that ho had no occasion to go in search.
He came. not seeking contro,·ersy-bcing no less distinguished for hir !ove of peace
Ulan for his devotion to srieuce. Dut he came as a minister from tile enlightened
1olnd~f tbe olclworld to treat with the Intellect of the new, upon mattera of the
deepest concern to the human race.
"His mesaare was of the highest lmpo:tance to us all. It Interested us aa stu•
dents of Nature•• Jaws, u observera of their manifestations, as speculators In
mental philosophy, and av friends of education. It opened new views of man'a
1110ral and Intellectual charac!et, and well nigh explained the mystery of tAattKltt,
lbat m~t sublime emam~tlon from the Divinity of Nature.' It taught the diAcipline
or:pouth-how to Inform their Intellect, to elevate· their sentiments, and to mode•
rate their passions. It pointed the way of happiness to man by exhibiting the
IOGlCOI of human virtue, and Its effects ;-the t.au~es of vice, and it1 effects upon
hla condition In life. It presented the most rational and humane view of moral
responsibility, and explained and enforced the whnle duty of ml\ll. And In this, bi~
Jut and crownlnr Lecture, Mr. Combe hu oponed the tre..~urea nf hi• •nnwiPdll'e
ortbe tolitlcallnstitutlona of the old world, faithfully portrayw their defects, thei1
aabvenlon of h\lman liberty and h:~ppine~s, nnd contrasted Wi\1! them tho fr~e
tnatJ\allona or our own country, and their happy inftuenc:ca UJI<lll \!Je mnr11l and
lntellect\lal condition or our clllzena.
,. And now, haying attended upon the g\ned Lecturer throngh his vali~•IR IIIii!•
tratlons,-bla well·anthenticated facta, and heard hla sound deductlona draw11. from
t\em, we buton·to e:a:proaa our profound aense of oblization to him for the ln&truc· .
t1cm be bu all'orded ~•. and our bleb appreciation of the doc.trineR he has !o ably
IMlntalned.
,. Be 1\ therefore,
"Ruolw, That we resard Phrenology aa having ill foundation In tho truths , ,
ot Nature, and u entitled in point of dignity &Del lntereat, to rank high among the
.a&araliCienco•·
"J!l......, That we reprd the practical applh:aUon qf PhrenolOgical prlnclp!Ofl..
te pbyllcal tralllilllf, to moral and mental educ:allon, to the treatment or the inaane0 ••• "
...-. UbDiDal leJlalatloa, u ol tbe blcbllt Importance and utility; and we lao, •1
.....q.. .....IIwi&IMII&IIJ ill ou owa day tbe lleuftclaJ.. roaults q'lllocluppl~, ca.~
·.
Dig•tized by Coogle
I MR. CO!tiBB. ''xi
tion tn·the lncreued happiness of our hopes, In the Improved condition of our
aemlnariea of learning, in more enlightened Jeall!atlon, and Ia the more benlp
lnfh•encc• of our ch·il and religious institutions.
"Ruoluet1,111at the extensive knowledge and aound philosophy which Mr. Combe
hu exl)iblted In the course of his Lectures, have Inspired us with a profound
respect for his intellectual power and attainm~nta; and while the simplicity of
manner and the purity of style with which he hu conveyed the moRt intercstinr
tfl!lhA evince a hhthly cultivated tute, the generous enthu&iiUim with which ht
h:uo embnrked in the cause of humanity command.a an admiration of hia sentiments
equnl to tho respect we entertain for his understanding.
"Rc1olrn, That, entertaining such opinions of the science with which M.-.
Combe ha~ identified his life and fame, and such sentiments toward him as a Icc·
turer and a man, we beg :o tender to him the expression of our beartfdl gntitude
for the Instruction and delight he has a1forded us, and our kindest wishes for his
pro'JICrity and happiness through life.
"On mo.tion, it was RtiOlectl, That the gentlemen who reported the foregoing
pl\ptlr and resolulions constitute a Commlt\ee to present the san1e to Mr.
Combe."
J. T.SA\VYER,Chairman
A. Bo4RDN.Uf, Secretary.
On the e\·tming that the Committee was appointed to dr:1w up 'the
foregoing resolutions, it was mentioned that a number of gentlemen,
de!l:rons of e\'inciu:; in a more enduring manner their sense of 1\fr.
Comhn':~ merits, and of the importnnt doctrines which he promulg:1ted.
hud commanced a s11bscription for that pnr1lose. 'fhe announcement
was cordially received-a meeting was called at 1\fr. Hurlbut's office
the enlluing evening, at which the following gentlemen were appointed
a committee with full powers: .Mr. E. D. Hurlbut, 1\rr. \Vm. J. llul-
ltm, Captain Dewey, and :\Jr. A. Boar,!man.
They detarmined on presenting a nse, which "·ill, I think, be onr.
of the most baautiful t~pecimcnll of art which America has produced.
Too much credit cnn•1ot be gh·cn to Cnptain D.ewcy, for his n~>'iduity
in attending to the general business of tlw co1111~1ittee, nor to M~· i\1ul-
lcn, by whom the plan of the ,·nse was drawn, and umtn who<'t! direc·
tion and snperinten1lenee its execution has thus far satisfactorily pro.
rreued, 'and will donbtlea be completed.
The \'Use is of exquisite form, and contains fifty ounces oft~il\'er. On
one side will be chnsed the heads of Dr. Gall, Dr. Spnrzheim, and l\lr.
Combe, over wbich will be the motto: " R.:s lfO!f VERBA QU.£so," nml
around the latter a wreath containing the word:~-" System of Pbrl'uo-
logy,"" Constitution of Man," &c. On the other, will be chns.•d thn
bostl of Dr. Rash, and Dr. Caldwell, together wilh lhe following
iuc:riptioa:
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
M& OOMBa.
PRESENTBD
GEORGE COMBE, ESQUIRE, OF EDINBURGH,
H ftm M&.a&aa or THW CLAU IK ATTalfDAitCa VPOit
ftm UCTVa&a DELIY&a&D ay HIIIC 11' TB&
· CITY OF NEW·YORK.
In the year 1830, on the aubjoe\ of
PHRENOLOGY;
Itt ........., f/ 1Atir prq/o.M re~p«l for tlw liutiapi6Atl IAdwtr, ,..-u,,
_, tArir 6clicf ill u4 _,tair'lllttft oJ
TR& !fOaL& ICI&IfC&,
or WBIOB lla II THa AaL&&T LIYIIIG TEACH&& AD aXPOOIIDJ&a,
The bMe ot the •ue will be om1uuented with tho akuU. of various
ua.U, u tmblematieal of eomparatlye Phrenolou.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ESSAY
Olf TBK
PHRENOLOGICAL AIODE OF INVESTIGATION.
ON its being observed to a scientific pretender, thnt facts
were atvariance with a hypothesis which he bnd announced,
he replied indignantly," So much the worse for the fncts.n
Like this was the lnngunge of almost nll expounders ofnatu-
ral science antecedent to the seventeenth century. Thry
worshipped the shndow of n mighty name. The Aristotelian
philosophy held undisputed sway. 1\Inhoaued:m, Jew,
and Christian, vied.\vith each other in hugging the chain
of scholastic bondnge, deeming n quotation from the stngi- ·
rito ndequnto to establish the grossest nbstmlity, or refute
tho most obvious truth. So fttr dill this inftttuntion rcncb,
thnt, in some of the Universities, statutes w~rc frnmcd, re-
quiring the professors to promise, on oath, tofollow no guide
but Aristotle; nnd tho French parliument, under 1-"'raucis 1.,
pronounced Peter Rnmus to be " insolent, impudent, and
a liar;'' andfor all coming time, condemned, suppressed nnd
abolished 'his books, prohibiting.him from copying or even ·
reading them, because he hnd publicly disputed tho doc-
2 .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
. 14 THE AJUSTOTELJAN PHILOSOPHY.
trines of ti1e Greek; nny, to attack these doctrines was, by
Jegislntive acts, rendered punishable by the gnlleys ! The
following incident in the life of Galileo well illustrates this
prostration of reason to authority.
'fhe Grecian philosopher hnd asserted thnt if two bodie!l,
of like material, were let full at the some titnc, from the
snme beight, the heaviest would rcnch the ground ns much
sooner than the other, ns it exceeded that other in weight;
that is, if it -..·ere fifty times as heavy, it lVould fnll with fifty
times the velocity. Gnlileo oppenled from Aristotle to. ob-
ae"otlon, and maintained that, with the exception of a very
slight difference, occasioned by the opposing air, both bo-
dies would reach the ~nrth in equnl times. 'fhis proposi-
ti9D was rejected os fidse, and scowled on ns presumptuous ;
10 to demonstrate its· truth, he took his opponents to the
.famous tower of Pisa, nnd let fall two weights from its sum-
ntit; yet with the evidence of their eyes to the equnlJy rapid
descent, with the simultaneous sounds still ringing in their
ean, the Aristotelians turned sneeringly nnd unbelievinglY.
away, quoting the stagirite! Throt!gh such thick clouds
of error, prejudice, nnd bigotry, difficult indeed it wns, for
the light of science to pierce, nnd if now nnd then n ray of
truth, from some bright nnd independent genius, struggled
through the enshrouding darkness, ~t wns like a solitary star
on a: dreary night, rendering" darkness visible."
The Greeks having settled it in their own minds that a
eirele is the most perfect of figures, concluded that the
movements of ~he heavenly bodies must be Jlerformed in
exaet circles, an~ with uniform motions, when the plainest
obse"ations demonstrated the eontrnry.
"In the sixth century, Cosmas lndopleustes f;Tavely
taught, that the earth wos an oblong plane, surrounded by an
imPft"able ocean ; nn immense mountnin in the form of a
eone,.or eugar~Ioaf, plnced in tho north, wns tho centre,
around which suo, moon, and 11tars dnily revolved ;i'the
ebape otthie mountain, and·the slanting motion of the sun,
\
Dig' ized by GoogIe
,
"
'J
I
I
I
i{
THE ARISTOTELIAN PHILOSOPHY. 15
accounted for the vnriable length of the dnys, nnd the
changes of the seasons. The heavens were supposed to
be nn immense nrch, one side of which rested on the earth,
nnd the other on two migl•ty pillnrs beyond the sen ; nn-
tler this vnult n multitude of angelic beings were employed
in guiding the motions of the stnr~."-(Accmmt of Lord
Bacon's Novum Organon Scicntiarum, p. 5.)
In the sixteenth century, Gerolnmo Frncastorn, in his
llomoceutricn, considered one of the best productions of
the dny, mnintnined that all the stars nrc carried round tlw
earth, fastened to solid concentric sphere.s, nnd to prove the
necessity of such ngeucy he "rensons" thus: "The plan-
ets nre observed to move one while forwards, then bnck-
\vnrds, now to the right, now to the left, quicker nnd slower
by turns; which vnriety is consistent with a compound
structure like that of nn nnimal, which llOiisesscs in itself
vnrious springs and principles of nctiou, but is totally. nt
varinuce with our notions of n simple nnd undecnyiug sub-
stance, lii(C the heavens nnd heavenly bodies. For ·that
which is ~~timple is altogether single, nnd 1:1inglcncss is of
one only nnture, nnd one nntnre cnn be the cma::;e of o11ly
one effect; nnd tlw·efore it is altogether impossible that tlte
stars of themselves shoultl move toitl& &llcl& t•ariety of motioPl.
And besides, if the stnrs move by themselves, they either
· move in nn empty spftce, or in a fluid medium like air.
Dut there can not be !Inch n thing as empty spnce, nnt.l if
there were such n medium, tl1c motion of the stnrs would
occasion comlcnsntion nnd rarcfhction in diflercnt parts of
· it, which is the property of corruptible bodies, nmt where
they exist some violent motion is going on ; but the hen-
vens are incorruptible, nnd ore not susceptible of violent
motion, nnd UENC£, nnd from mnny other similar rensons,
any one WIIO IS NOT OBSTIN.,TE mny sntisfy himself that
the stars cannot lt.ave a"!I i11depe11deut n1otio11.'te Such were
.. See life or Galileo Ga1ilei, by Drinkwater. - . •
o; tized 'YGoogle
16 THB BACONIAN · PHILOSOPHY.
the loose assertions, rash assumptions, and wild imngi-
nings, dignified by the nnme Philosophy. Men strove ·to
explain phenomena by reasoning on their own conjecturtas,
by hypotheses funciful as fairy tales, and, nt the best, by a
loose application of g~neral principle11, drawn with reck-
less haste, and presumption, from a few ill-observed facts.
This wns the prevalent mode of philosophising. Hod such
apeculations and reasoningsbeen merely the occasionalebul-
litions ~f wayward minds, to adduce them as characteristic
of the philosophy of the ancient nnd middle ages, would
be 88 ·untiair as it would, in nfter times, to adduce the anti-
phrenological tirades of the present day, ns characteristic
· of the phil()sophy of the age in which \ve live.
Atthe commencement of the seventeenth century appear-
)
/
., ed Lord Bacon, one of the most remarkable men the world
has produced. 'Vith·u his supreme and searchingglance,he
rangedoverthewhole circle of the sciences,"detected the ab-
surdities of the sehoolmen, and exposed them with a \'igor-
ous and unsparing hnnd. He dethroned the Aristotelinn
idol which had for ages received the blind fealty of a wort~
and, fortunately for science and humanity, attempted not to
aubstitute an idol of his own, but pointed to nature ns nlonc
worthy of homage. "1\lan," said he, in the opening sen-
tence of his immortal work, " the servant and interpreter
of nature, understands and reduces to prnctice just so much
of nature's laws as he has actually cxpcric11ted, more he
can ·neither know nor achieve." Now this experience lla-
Coft maintained must be acquired by obacrvation. To ob-
ae,Yo facts, then, is the first great business of the invcstign-
'tor. Facts may be divided into the preacnted nnd pro-
duud. Tbe first being such as nnture offers to our obscr-
Yation without any aid or interference of ours; the li!econd
being euch as occur in consequence of our putting in ac·
~on, causes and agents over \Vhicla we have coutrol. In- ·
atance• or the last ciRss ore usually called experiments,
aDd their production ond obse"ation Lord Bacon signifi-
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
TilE 0.\CONUN PIIILOSOPUY. 17
cnntly terms " asking questions of nature!' Thus the
incrense of size in the humnn bend, from inti.mcy to ndult
age, is·a fact presented to our obscrmtion. But the division
of the nntcrior root of n spinal nen·c, for the purpose of
obsen·ing the )O$sof motion, is a produced instance or expe-
riment. It must be rcnll'mhered, howe\'cr, that if facts be
well scrutinized and \'erified; they are of equal \'nlue, whC··
ther }lresentcd or produced: but the former, are almost
tt.e only ones employed in phrenological investigations.
Obse"ation, then, being the only true means of laying
n foundation for the discovery nnd establishment of truth,
we should dismiss from our mind, all preconceived notions
of what 1ho~tltl be (If mig!tt be, and trf carefully to ascertain
wltat i1. 'fhis rule wns neglected by Ludovieo Dolci nnd
others who maintained thnt the cerebellum must be the
sent of memory, because its low and out of the way situa-
tion so ndmirably fitted it for n mental store-house. It was
adhered to by Gall, when, 1wglecting the assertions of those
who maintained that mentnl cnpacity ought nnd must, at
birth, be equal in nil, he observed and maintained thnt vast
difterences do in reality exist.
But we must bear in mind that isolated facts are of small
value. They must be brought together carefulJy and pa-
tiently; must be rigidly scrutinized and verified, compared
nnd classified, for tho purpos1~ of ascertaining some relation .
of sign nod po,ver, cnusc ·nud effect, gcuerul principle,
quality, or mode of ncth·ity. 'l'o uchie\'e such result~ is,
indeed, the grcnt object nnd triumph of the Bnconinn phi·
losophy. lly such ohs<'n·ntion, comparison, nntl clnssificn·
tion, it bns been discovered for example, thnt n ccrtnin state
of the barometer indicntes n certain elevation above the
le,·el of the sen; that· increase of bent causes bodies to ex·
pand ; that all the individual plnnts of the crow-foot tribe
nrc more or less ncrid und poisonous ; tlmt the sun modi-
fies the moon's influence on the tides. Or, to tnke another
seriea of examples. By this method it bns been nacertain·
2•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
18 'THE BACONIAN PHILOSOPHY.
. .
ed that a large skull indicates a Jorge brain, and that a large
brain causes a Iorge skuJl ; that persons having o brain
weighing but one .nnd a half pounds are invorinbly idiotic ; .
that a predominnl)t coronal region gives a general tendency
or disposition towards vinue; and that educntion has the
power of modifying the constitutional tendencies of our
nature.
The fundamental error of ancient philosophy was the no-
tion that a general cnuse must be first divined or conjectured,
: and then applied to the explanation of pnrticular pheno-
mena; they perceived not the plain but momentous truth,
.. that a general ·fact is nothing else than o fact common to
many ·individuals, and consequently, that the individual
Cocts must' be known~ before the general fact can be stated.
Hence, inatead of first ascer:taining by direct observation,
the relative velocity of two descending bodies differing in
weight, then of two others-persisting with ne\v experiments
until enough of instances hnd been observed to justify an
nssumption of unifhrmity, Aristotle first assumed a gross
error os a general ·fuct, and then infe"cd it of any two
bodies whatever, His reasoning wns correct, but his pre-
miss was false. lie attended to logicsbut utterly neglec.ted
induction.
..
But, besides pointing out the true method of investiga-
tion, tho Baconian philosop~•Y furnishes o number of tests
by which we may know when two facts bear to each other
the relation or cause and effect, or of sign and power.
These are, -
1. •• Invariable connection."
1. ••Invariable negation or the eft"ect, with absence or
the cause."
8.· ••Increase or diminution of the efFect, with the increa·
·ted or diminished intensity of the cause."
It f'unher·teaches us that, .. Wi! are not to deny the exis·
..oe oracause in f'avour o£ which we have a unanimous .
. .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
THE DACONIAN PHILOSOPHY. 19
agreement of strong analogies, though it may not be appa-
·rent hO\v sueh a eausc can produce the effect.''•
For example, suppose a dark line be observed itwariably
to exist.on the forehead of man, und on the hencls of all
such animals as sing, or recognize the melodious succes-
.sion of notes, and to be invariably absent from the heads of
such animals as do not sing, or manifest such recognition.
Again, suppose the musical faculty to be possessed by dif-
ferent individuals, of· the same species, in different degrees.
A long line being invariably accompanied by great musical
power, and a short line by feeble musical power, the porcer
varying in strength in proporlion as the line varied in length.
Here we should have that ·"invariable connection," that
"invariable negation of the effect, with absence of the
cause," and that, " increase or diminution of the effect, \vith
the increased or diminished intensity of the cause," which
·would unavoidably lend us to recognize one of the pheno-
mena ns the cause or sign, and the other ns the effect or
power, notwithstanding that \\'e might not be able to con-
.ceive how a dark line, and the musical talent, should be so
related. Now what is here supposed of the black line, is de-
monstrably true of n certain portion of the brain, with this
advantage, that tho brain is admitted by all to be an ade-
.quate material, or proximate cause of mental manifestation.
The orgnu of tunc is developed in all animals which have
the musicnl fnculty, and undeveloped in all such as lu~ve it
not. In such as have it, the organ and faculty l\l'e always
·directly related in size and power.
Topretend, with some,to trace allthe magnificentdiscove-
ries of modern times to the Novum Organon, as to the foun-
·tainwhence they. sprung, would be erroneous. Ere Bacon
appeared, the art of printing had been diffused ; men had
commenced to ask the tolay of all existinginstitutions, there-
- Ditcoune OD the study or Natural Pbiloaopby, ~1 SirJ'ohn Her·
~ebeU, No1.US and 148.
o,J,zedbyGoogle
THE DACONI.\N PUII.OSOPIIV.
formation had shaken the ancient empire ofsuperstition to its ·
foundation. John of Salsbury, Roger Dncon, Gilbert, and
Cope.rnicu11 preceded him ; Gnlilco nnd 1\.epler were his con-
temporaries. The Novum Orgnnon must, therefore, be con-
sidered ns a manifestation, rnther than a enuse, of the philo-
eophic spirit which, nbout thnt time, simt1ltaneously burst
forth•. We must remember, too, thnt Gilbert, Galileo, and
others had recognized the inductive, as the true method of
investi~ation, before·the appenrance of Bncon's great work,
u Gall did afterward•, before knowing of its existence.
But, though the principle of induction hnd been recog-
nized, to Bacon belongs the great honour of plncing it, by
his noble ardour and ginnt power, in deserved pre-eminence,
aa the true, .the only method in which nature can be so ques-
tioned, ns to induce her to revenl her hidden agencies and
Iaweof action. lie destroyed for ever, the philosophic pre-
tensions of those who essayed to explnin natural pheno-
mena by reasoning on conjecture. ~nd, by showing the
. nobleness or their employment, who were laboriously en·
gaged in minutely investigating and comparing particulur
phenomena, he forced the curl from the pedant's lip, and
tho scowl from the bigot's brow. It mny be truly said thnt
the dawn Of the neW philOHOphy had before appeared, but
that 11 day wnited" for Veruhun.
A11 tho glory nnd utility of logic depend on its not being
merely CJ modo of reasoning, but tltc mode in which all cor·
rect reasoning must bo performed,• so do tho glory and
• Boo Elomouts of Logic by Archbishop WhRtcly, book h·. chnp.I.
To tho110 who, with Mcnnge, definelogic to bo "The art of tnlking unil,.
tellisib1y on things of which we .are ignorant," I would recommend a
ptrueal or the above odmirable work. Logic has been abused by its pre-
tended friends, and hu ther.,rore been denounced. Th~s it is ever; the
world, in ita burry to condemn, stops not to discriminate between the
tme 'QMI of a thing, and the purp0101 to which it Us applied i but visits
.upon tbe poor :.bn.'led Cact, or principle, the pttnilhment due only to·ita
abtlftn. .Tbu bu it beoo with Phrenology. Man7, Cor lucre'• like,
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
THB 8.\CONIAN PIIILOSOPHY. 21
utility of the Baconian method depend on 1ts uot being
merely a mode, but tltt mode in which all discoveries J.llUSt
be made and established. By induction we ascert.ain the
truth ot falsehood of premises; by logic, whether, from th~
premises, the announced conclusion is fairly deduceable.
By the former we become acquainted with the · previ-
ously uitknown, by the lntter we draw particular conclu-
sions from general propositions, the truth of which is ac·
knowled,ged.
By means of the inductive philosophy, man, in these lat-
ter days, hns been able to draw aside the veil of the inner
temple, nod become on" intimate terms with nature." To it,
chiefly, do we owe our superiority over the dark ages, for it
cannot be supposed that nil at once the human intellect
gathered vigour, and emerged from childhood to manhood.
No; it hnd lost its way, and become" in wandering mnzes
lost," nod though vast powers were often times displayed,
yet as they were displayed in weal·ing.webs of subtlety and
conjecture, nothing was achieved. Like the arts of the
posture master, the displays of intellectual pon·er were won-
derful, but of small profit, and, by enlightened reason,
could be accounted only as "fantastic tricks." The induc-
tive philosophy brought men bnck to the true path, .nod in
that path, advancement was not, as before, a departure from
truth, but progrcfls in it. No wond~r, then, that we hnvo
surpassed our fathers, for, as Bacon well obsef\'es, e\·en "a
cripple in the right wny mny bent a rncer in the wrong."
'l'o this philbsophy, then, do we owe the establishment of
l,lucnology, a science pregnant with more important influ-
have dragged our noble science through the mire, by pretending to teach
what they have ne,·er learned, nnd to determine the ,·o.Jue of develop-
ment., of the significance of which they were ignorant. Phrenologista
·have ever been the first to warn the community against the11e self-!!tyled .
friet.ds, but worst of foeti, nnd yet, in public and in private, have the cnl·
·ditie• and moJ-practices of these men been identified with the cause of
Phrenology.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
J)R. GALL'S CHARACTER.
ences tbnn the revelations of Gnlileo, of Harvey, or of
Newton ;n~nking known os it does, the material in-struments
of mentality, unfolding ns it does, the moral and intellectual
constitution of man, and exposing ns it docs, the secret
!iprings of thought and impulses of action; furnishing man
with n middle term, which will cnnble him, ns it were, to
throw his own and externul nature into one mighty syllo·
gism, and educe humnn duty nnd human destiny.
The dny is not far distnnt when it will be neknowJed~ed
by nll, that no doctrines were e\·er estnblished on a more
extensive induction· of rigidly scrutinized and verified facts,
than were tho!e of. GnlJ. The length of time which he
allo\Yed to elapse between their dawn nnd promulgation ;
· his entire devotion of life and property to their investign·
tion ; tho bold but truth-loving t~pirit ; the profound, com·
prchensive, discriminative, nml practical tmtlcrstnnding,
cYcry where mnnifcstetl in his writings, phlce him nt tho
nntipotle~ of tho11n ~ru1enlntivo gcnhiscs, who spentl their
lives in weaving webs of sotlhistry for the cntnnglcmcnt of
. humnn reason. To mnko this evident, to show in a mnn·
ncr satisfactory to all cnntlid minds, that phrenology is a
discovery, not an invention, thnt its doctrines are but the
crowning stones to pyramids of facts, is the object of the
present essay. · ·
From his enrJiest youth, Frnn~oiR Jo~r.ph GnU, remarked
that his brothers nnd siste1·s, his plny-fcllow!J nnd school-
mates, manifested grent diversity of dispositien and talent,
notwithstanding similnrity of education nnd externnl cir-
cumstances. Some were remnrlmble for their attachment
to, some for their disregnrd of truth ; some were pcncenble,
other! qunrrclsome ; !lome modest, others nrrognut ; some
ehone in composition, others had n harsh dry style ; some
~xcelled in calculation, others could not lenrn or co~pre­
he.n·d the multiplicntion tnblc. lie remnrked, too, thnt
~here wu grent uniformity in the character o.f each indi-
o; tized 'YGoogle
· GALL'S FIRST ORGANIC DISCOVERY. 23
vidual. No one remarkable for goodness one year, be-
came remarkable for wicliedness the next ; no one remark-
ably nrrognut and rude, did he ever know to become very
humble nud complaisant. He wns thus impa·essed with the
notion, thnt the disposition~, or originnl tendencies of the
uaind, nrc innate.
At the age of nine years• he first noticed a connection
between prominent eyes and verbal memory. 'Vith the
cause of thnt prominence he was then unacquainted, but
afterwards ascertained it to he the predominant size of a
certain cerebral convolution, which, by pressing on the pos-
terior part of the superior orbital plnte, pushed the eye oat-
wards. 1.'bis was the first observation which led the youthful
philoiiO}lher to seclt for external signs ofthe mentnl fncuhies.
Aud let not a smile of incredulity piny upon the lips be- )
cnusc of GnU's cnrly nge. 1\lmmrt bl'gnn to compose nt the \
ago of four yenu. llnndd, nlmost ns 11oon ns .he could }
speak. Colbum, nt six, astonished the world l'Y tho ra-
pidity with which he pcrlormcd intricate nrithmcticnl cnl-
culntions. At twelve, l,ope wrote his "Ode on Solitude.".
At thirteen, 'Vrea had formed nn ingenious machine to
represcut the course of the stars. At sixteen, Pnscnl Jlub-
lished fl work on conic sections. At the sl\me ngc, Michncl
Angelo hnd executed works which were compnrcd to thoso
of antiquity. Newton, at twcnty-th·c, hnd complctctl some
of his most brilliant lliscovcrics, aud originntcJ nll ho ever
mnde. So true is the obscrvntion of Gnll, that " from in·
fnncy mnn announces the cbnrncter which will distinguish ·
hitn in udult nge." Nor let the t~ccmingly trifling observa-
tion which he first ma.do excite dcri~ion. It is the
glory of genius .to detect, in the every dny phenomena of
life, the clews to mighty principles. . Thut~, Pytbngoroe,
from listening to a blncksmith's hammer, mode o most bril·
liant dilcovery in acoustics. Galileo deduced the use of the
• Chenivix.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
\
\
. 24 J'UNDAIIENTAL TRUTHS OP PllRENOLOOY.
· pendulum, as a pulse and time measurer, from observing
the oscillations of a lomp, swingingfrom the cathedral roof
at Pisa. From noticing the phenomena presented by soap
bubbles, Newton caught the first hint to some of his. great·
est optical ~iscoveries, and from noticing the fall of tm ap·
pie, he wns Jed to unravel the subtle bond of the universe.
\
· lt would be pleusunt and instructive to follow Gall
throughout his cureer of doubt, nnd· difficulty, and ditt·
covery, and persecution, nnd noble sclf-relinnce, and ulti·
mate triumph; but space wi~ not suffice, and I must hasten
to show, ~oro in detail, the spirit and mode in which phrc·
nologi~t investigations hnve been prosecuted, and the kind
ofevidence on which phrenological doctrines rest.
As preliminary to this, let us state some fundamentol
truths ofphrenology, referring to the lectures for the proof•
on which they rest. · ·
1. The mental powers of man ure innate, and their
talents and dispositions are discoverable by ob11ervation.
2. By means of the bruin, nil the mentol powers aro
manifested.
3. The mental manifestntions result from various dis-
tinct mental powers ; and ought, therefore, to hove their
seat in distinct ports of tho bruin.
\
\.
4. Melt differ much in their po~ver of manifesting the
vRrious mental qualities ; and brains differ much in size and
fonn.
0. The outer surface of the bend so nearly correspond•
to the outer eurfnce of the brain, that the size nnd form of
the latter, are i.ndicnt.ed by the size and form of the former.
6. By a comparison of mental manifestations in indi-
vidual• of all varieties orage, r~tntion, tnlents, and disposi·
tion, with their cerebral developement, the scats of vurioua
mental otgans have been clearly ascertained.
T. Size, other things being equal, is the ·measure of · ·
power; consequen_tly, phrenologists are nble to tell from
o, ,,zedbyGoo le
LOVE OF YOUNG.
the size of an organ, its pou·er of manifestation ; and from
the energy of its manifestation, its relative size.
I said that I would sho\v more in detail, the spirit and
mode, in which phrenological investigations have been
prosecuted, and the kind of evidence, on which phrcnologi·
cal doctrines rest. 'l'o do this, I shaH ndd\tce the proof:~
of nn orgnn, which may bo readily observed. Perhnps
none ht\S been estnblished by such oar overwhelming tU.~·
cumulation offacts, ns thnt ofAmotivcnetas; but, for ob,·ious
reasons, the fncts nrc inadmissible in this essay. I, there·
fore, refer the professionul render to GnU's article contain·
ed in the third volume of his work, •' Sur les Fonction:t
du cervenu, &c,"-but, more especially, to the late work of
Mr. Combe, on the same subject ;*- and proceed to show
the sort of evidence, on which we rest our beliefconcerning
the seat of tbot orgnn, by which the love of young is mnni·
fested. I deem it better to exhibit at length, nnd in order,
the chief proofs of one organ, than to mention promiscu·
ously some of the proofs of several ;-for one organ being
proved, the fundamental principles of phrenology nrc ~~·
tablishcd; and these being established,the details will readily
make their \vo.y to the convictions of men. In doing this,
I shall make a free usc of phrenological writings.
• On 1M Funtlionl ofthe urtbtllum, by Dn. Gall, Vimo11t, a11d Brou·
1ail, tran~lated from the Fmacla, by GEoRG'& Coxn, u:ilh additioftal t4IU
· by 1M traltllalor. Published 183..q, by ~l:lcl:lchlan and Stewart, Edin·
burgh; Longman and Co., and Simpkin l\(anhall and Co., London;
and ManL, Capen a.M Lyo.n~ Boetoa.
3
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
•• LOVB OP YOUNG.
LOVE OF YOUNG.
(T'-,.,.•I IAii./M:tlltr ..,., ut&WWrul 6J .,_,.tilofthree ~
obtmJGtiotlf,)
FiJ.I.
LoYe or Your, small. LoYe of Yollllr, larp.
Location ofthe organ ofthe Lo'De of Young.
Let the reader feel nlong the middle line, at tbe bn-clt·
pnrt of the head, towards the base of the skull, nnd he will
recognize a small bony projection; below this point lies the
organ of amativeness ; ·_immedinteJy above it, and on eoch
side or the middle line of the head, lies tho orgnn of the
Joyo or young, forming, gcnernlJy, a single protuberance
occupying both sides of tho line. 'Vhen predominant, os
in the second of these figures, it gives to the posterior part
of the head a drooping, overhanging, nppenrance. To the
anatomist, I mny remark, that this organ lies on each side
th~ falx eerebri, and rests on the tentorium.
Dilcovery oftlae organ ofthe Love of Young.
Dr. Gall obeened, that in females the upper part of the
occipital bone reeeded n1ore than in males, and naturally
iolerred, that the b~n beneath this part was the pro6a6k
Digitized by GoogIe
LOVE OP Y()UNO.
nat •ifsome quality which is stronger in woman than in man.
The question then arose, of what ·quality is it the sent t
For five years he kept the subject continunlly in mind,
ndopting various opinions, all of which, he saw reaPon to
di!!cnrd.
At length he noticed, that the crania of monkeys, in this
particular part, bear 11 striking resemblance to those of wo-
men, and he inferred that the cerebral part lying under this
prominence, was the probable organ ofa quality, which wo·
men and these animals equally possess in a high degree.
He held the more tenaciously to this idea, bccnusc, from
the orgnus he had before discovered, he felt sure thnt this
region wns not the sent of nny superior intellectual or
moml fitculty. He often pondered on the qualities wbicb
he knew the monltey tribe to possess, and, nt length, in a
happy moment, during the delivery of a lecture, as he re-
collected the extreme love of young, which is so char-
acteristic of these animals, the thought flashed upon his
mind, thnt this .might be the long sought qunHty. He
hastily begged his clnss to retire, hurried to hi• cabinet,
commenced to exnmine nnd compare nll the skulls he pos-
sessed, and found the same difference to exist between male
and female skulls in genernl. The idea which hnd struclt him
appeared the more plausible, from the close proximity of
this organ to that of the instinct of propagation. All sub-
sequent observntions confirmed its correctness.
The Love of You11g exists tnroughout tne animal kingdom
to a greater or less extent.
'Ve can hardly turn our attention to any pnrt ~f the
animal kingd()m, without being greeted with .the. manifest·
ations of this delightful feeling. Insects, fishes, an~ the
amphibious animals, seek to deposit their eggs in a place
of safety, whence the young may obtain ready egr~ss, ond
be able to find food. The savage crocodile cautiou&ly stenia
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LOVE OF YOUNG.
forth, and deposits her eggs in the sloping snnd bnnk, where
· the sun's rays can hnve full}lower, cnrefuJiy t1·yiug to cover
··th~m in such wny as to prevent thch· discovery. Certniu
11piders cnrry their cgg!i in n.little sack on their back, which
they nevt!r part with except on the most pressing emergency•
. The cricket forms winding pnssngcs to its nursery, nnd
· keeps sentry around it. ·Ifan nnt hill he destroyed, with
whnt earnestness the little inhabitants collect the eggiJ nnd
)n".e, and ·deposit them in n ·place of safety! 'l'he wnsps
nnd bees mny nt other times be approached without excit-
ing their anger, but in the season of their young thcybe·
come dnngerous. 'Vitb what activity they nourish tho in-
t:'lnt bees. with what fondness they lick and caress them,
with whnt courage they defend them! Then with whnt
perseverance do the birds cover nnd batch their eggs, with
whnt nssitluity do they feed nnd protect their young, whnt
nlnrm they manifest when their brood is threatened. They
cling to their little ones despite hunger nnd cold, and nrc
sometimes found dead, having in vain attempted to !'Creen
them from inclement weather. The cuckoo is often quoted
ns destitute of this feeling; hut, inasmuch ns 10he carefully
deposits her eggs in the nest of some bird which will hntch
them, and supply the infnnt brood with worms, she evi-
dently possesses it, though in nn inferior degree.
In the mammn)ia, the Jove of young, is the most ncth•e
and imperious ofthe instincts. When the fox, cat, or squir-
rel has tbe least suspicion that its habitation is discovered,
it immediately removes its ofFspring to another asylum
Hol:Vevcr cautious the fox mny ordinarily be, it becomes.
rash and dauntless when it has whelps to succour. 'Vhen
their young are in danger, bensts of prey become truly ter-
rific ; and even the hind nnd femnJe roebuck forget thnt
they are unarmed, and rashly precipitate themselve~ on the
enemy, when their fawns ore in peril. Monkeys are so
fond of the young, that they bestow their caresses on chil-
dren enn, who may be so unfortunate aa to fall in their
Digitized by Google
LOVE OP YOUNG.
wa.y. The strength of this feeling in the human species,
need not be .told. It cannot be denied, then, that love of
young is nn innate propensity.
The strength of the Love of Young is greater, and t'M
organ larger, in females than in males
In many species of ·animals, the male takes very little
interest in the young; this is the case with the bull, horse,
stag, wild boar, and dog, .all the females of which, nre
extremely attached to their young ; there h3\'e been dogs
and horses however, which have sought the young with
solicitude, protected them with tenderness, and defended
them with courage. ·
Among those animals which Jive il) the mnrriage state,
or remain faithfylJy attnched during life, ns the fox, wolr,
martin, and polecat; and among most bird$, both scxel' tnkc
great care of the young, still pnrentnllo\·e is most conspicu-
ous in the fcmnle ; in imminent danger the futher more often
cscnpes than the mother, though, in ordinary cir.cum·
stances, this ill rever$ed.
Mankind Jove their young, nnd take charge of them with
common accord, but yet, the Jove of off$pring is much
n~ore intense in the female, than .in the mnle, nod this dif·
fcrence is mnnifested from the earliest infancy. The boy
wants his \Vhip, horse, drum, or swor~ ; but, observe the
little girl, occupied with her doll, she decks it in fine
clothes, prepares for it night linen, puts it into the cradle,
rocks it, takes it up, caresses it, feeds it, tenches it, scolds
it, threntens it, and tells it stories. 'Vhen she grows older
she takes charge of her younger brothers nnd sisters, no-
thing possesse.s in her elitimation, greater charms· than
bnbies.-And, when grown to maturity, and become her-
eel£a mother, with what sweet emotion and gushing tender-
ness does abe caress her little ones. Well might Gallaa1•
3•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
1M! . . _
_2!!5!!!C!!£- ..- ~- --·..-..----
LOVE OP YOUNG.
" Jt I had a .city, there should arise in its midst, as an em-
blem of domestic· hnppiness, a mother nursing her infnnt."
A most interesting practical example, of the difference in
this feeling betwixt males and females, is quoted by Mr.
Combe, from 1\lorier's Trnvels in Persia. " The surgeons
oftho Embnssy," snys he, "endeavoured to introduce vac-
cination among the Persians, and their efforts at first, were
very suc~easful ; but, on a sudden, its progress was checked
by the government itself. Severnl of the King's Fern11hes,
were placed atthe gnte ofthc Ambassndor's hotel, nominal-
ly as a mark of attention to his excellency, but really to
stop nil women from goirig to our surgeons. They snid,
thnt if tbe people wanted their children to be vnccinnted,
the fathers and not the mothers were to take them to the
surgeons, by which menns the eagerness for vaccination
was stopped ; for, we soon discovered, thnt the malctt did
not feel one half the same anxiety for their offspring, ns the
wome'n."-SccondJourney through Persia, p. 191.
We find, in short, in nil species of animals, thnt lo\'e of
young predominntcs in the fcmnlc, and, in exact nccordancc
with thi!S, GnU found thl\t in the si\IIHs of birds, from the
smallest to the largest, and in the sltulls of the mammife-
rous animals, from the Phrewmouse to tho elepbnnt, the
part hrfore tlescribed is more devclopul in tlte female tkan f.!&
the mal~. The plntes of Gnll and Vimont, well illnstrnte thit~
(net and Rny one mny be convinced of it by obscn·ntion.
! .. The organ of nmntivencstz, sitnuted in the cerebellum, is
greoter in the mnle than in the female ; that of the ·Love of
young, is grenter in the female than in the male, and by the
di.ferenu in tlaese organs alone, Gall could tell, \vhen n
brain was presented to him in water, whether it were that
ot a male or female. The difference in form, in man, is
manifest, in the fcmtal cranium. The skulls of women nie,
by tbil diiference or denlopement, readily known from
thole ormen. .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LOVE OP YOUNG. 31
The Love ofYoung "aries in intensity in animals of the
same species, and the same sex, and the organ differs ac.;
cordingly.
l\Jany domestic nnimnls l~ill and devour their yollng,
though, generally, they nre greatly nttnched to them. ·
· 1\lany cows will not suffer themselYes to be suclded by
their calves; others, if separated from them, low piteously
and refuse to ent for several days. 'l'he king of qunils sits
so assiduously, that it is often beheaded by the reaper's
sickle. When the building in \vhich there is n stork's nest
takes fiTe, the parents often precipitate themselves into the
flames, rather than abandon their young. Some mares
have such n pnssion for colts, thnt they lend nwny those of
other mnres, nnd tend them with jealous tenderness. There
is not n single farmer's wife, who docs not know thnt in-
dividual differences exist in this particular, and who can-
not point out, in the farm)~ard, those hens, turkeys, ducks,
Rnd geese, thnt cover their cgg!l, nnd tend their young ns-
siduously, from those which destroy their nests or neglect
and nbnndon their young.
The snme diftcrence exi11ts in the humnn species. Some
men nre passionately fond of children ; this wns the cnse
with Burns, in whom this
orgnn wns greatly devcl·
oped, ($ee outline.) Agc$i-
Jaus, the warlike king or
Spnrtn, used to ride on o.
stick to nmU$C his chil·
drcn. And Henry the IV,
of France, was caught on
all fours galloping round
the room, \Vith one child on his bnek, nnd another flog-
ging him with a whip. On the other hand, some women
show marked dislike to children, they look upon them as
visitations. We see some mothers give up their children
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LOYB. OP YOUNO.
, with indifference to mercenary hands, while some adopt
the children of othen, and. bestow upon them the most
tender cares.
"I knew a lady at Vienna," says GalJ, 11 who loved her
husband tenderly, wl)o managed the offain of her house-
hold with intelligent activity, but, who sent from home ·im-
mediately after birth, all the nine children of which she was
successively delivered, and for years she never desired to
see them. · She wns herself astonished at this indifference,
ond could not account for it. In order to acquit her con-
science, she required that her husband should dnily sec her
children, and attend to their education."......Vol. 3, p. 282.
"Dr. Gall," snys 1\Ir. Combe, "knew instances oflodies
who ~ever felt any interest whatever in their children. I
found it difficult to realize this fact, till I met with o cnse
. .
precisely similar. A huly of Edinburgh sent all her chil-
dren from bome.to be reared nnd educated, and never wish-
ed to see them till they were grown, when she treated them
not as though she rcgar.ded them as her children, but as
friends and companions. I wns
not sufficiently acquainted with
this Indy to examine her head,
but a lady of my acquaintance,
who was an excellent phrenolo-
gist, did so, nnd found the organ
to be remarkably small. The
bead, like this of a Peruvian,
appeared to be truncated in the
'. posterior region."
We doily see domestics veryfond of children, and others
who cannot abide them. \Ve f!ee some who abhor even
the~goodh~moured prattle, others who sho'v towards thein
the utmost forbearance, and sooth their fretfulness with
admirable patience and gentleness.
Now, in all theH cases, the ltrortg m4nifostation of the
·/ulV.,is accompanied by a ~~e development ofthe organ,
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
J,OVE OF YO\TNG. 33
nnd nftcble manifestation of till' fitcnlty, by n smalldetJtlop·
mrnt of the orgnn, the mnnifcstntion nnd development being
pi'Oportionnl. •
Proofs drawn from the cerebralconformation ofitifm•ticidcs,
thai. the portion ofbrait& before indicated, is tile organ of
the LoVE OF YOUNG. .
Dr~. GnU nnd Spurzheim examined the bends of twenty·
nine women guilty of child murder, nnd in twcnty.five this
organ wns very ftcbly developed.-Gazr, 1J'"orks, Boston
r.dition, Vol. 1. p. 293.
One of the twenty-five cnscs, I here present ns an exnm·
ple. The account will be found in the description ofGnU's
,·isits to the prisons of Berlin, and Spandnu, published in
Xos. 97 nod 98 of the 1;-rcymiithige, 1\lny, 1805, nnd trnns·
~rihcd into Gall's Works, Vol. VI. p. 301.
Dr. Gall drew attention to the lnrgc or~nn of dc~trncth·~
nc~s, nnd the nbsolutcly flattened r£'gion of the )o,·e of oft'·
spring, in n woman named Rcgine Drering. This womnn
had had several children, of which she had nlwnys secretly
got rid. She was sentenced to imprisonment for life, yet she
showed no repentance, nor remorse, but entered the room,
to be examined by Gall, with n serene nnd assured nir
The feebleness of child-love could never be the cnuse of
infanticide ; but, when the orgnn is energetic, it h~u1 a most
powerful restraining tendency. In four cn~:~es out of the
twenty-nine nbove mentioned, the organ wns full or large.
I will relate one of these nlso, ns it subjected phrenology to
what may be fairly called nn erperimmtum crucis. 'fho
account appeared in the Journal du Beau .21/ondc, Aug:l,
1805: Leipsic.
Among a number of criminals detnined in the prison of
'forgau, who were brought to Dr. Gnll, n woman was pre-
sented, who, denfto the cries of her inf..'lnt, aged four yean,
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LOVB OP YOUNG.
had drowned h~m in·a river. Dr. GnU exnmincd her; then
he took the hand of l\1. Soder, counsellor nt llulle, who
happened to be there, nnd pnssed it over the bnck nnd sides
of the woman's bend, in order to prepnre him for some far-
ther observations. The prisoner ha-ving retired, Dr. GnU
explnined to a crowd of persons, who nccompanied hiDJ,
thnt he hnd discovered a circumstnncc very unusunl in
these cases; nnmcly, that the prisoner had the organ oj
maternal love tJcrg.greatlg developed; that the organ ofde-
•fruction U,a, fJCT!J little 10 ; thnt o~herwise, she wns very
wll organized, and 11\USt.hnve great faculty for lenrning by
heart. The ·magistrates present, then related to Dr. GnU
the following fact!Jo ·
" This person, born ofpoor parents, whom she lost nt an
early period, ·had received hardly any education, when
grown up she went to service in the country, and received
the best certificates from -
her mnsters. Unhnppily she was
seduced, became pregnnnt, and the being to which she thua
gave life, '\vas the cause of her misery. She was dismissed
from her employers, nnd no one would receive her, she
knew not how to mnintnin herself and her unfortunate in-
fnnt, which she continued to cherish with the utmost tender-
ness. · At length, a poor.villnger and his wife, took pity on
her lot, received the child into their house, nod kept chnrge
.ofit for three yenrs. The mother again found employment
and behaved very well.
" The child grew up, and gnve great sntisfnction to.his
protector, who loved him with the tenderness of a son, and
'Yaa repnid with equnl warmth. This was enough to set
idle tongue~,t busy. A rumour sprend thnt the villnger was
the father of the cl1ild. The good mnn, conscious of in- .
nocence, despised these cnlumnies ; but, his wi(e was dif-
ferently afFected by them. Hence, resulted altercations so
frequent and so disngreenbl~, that the villnger, to obtain
peace, H~t back the child to ita unhappy mother. In vain
J;9, ized by Coogle
LOVE OF l:OUNO. 35
did she supplicate ber employers ; in ,·ain reprcRent that
she had sef\'ed them with exemplary assiduity and fidelity;
she saw herself, on account of this child, again houseless
in the severest season of the year. All the other rich peo-
ple·treated her with the Rnmc hauhness, she met with no
other poor and hospitable villager. She wandered from
place to plnce, selling her garments to tmtisfy her hunger
nnd that of her child, finding no where either refuge or
succour. The child wns wasting away ; overcome and
enfeebled by hunger and pain, she implored death for this
miserable being and herself, as the only relief to their suf-
erings. In this struggle, between maternal Jove for her
child, who wa!l almost dying with hunger and cold, nnd
the conviction that its destruction was the only means of
saving herself; hopeless of compassion from mankind, in
a moment of delirium, she seized the wretched child,
nnd dropped him into the river, where death •bon reliev<-d
his sorrows. Exhausted by weakness, the mother fainted,
and wns found in this state; on recovery, she immediately
accused herself of the crime, and was arrested. She was-
condemned to be beheaded, but, on account of the attend-
ing circumstances, her punishment wns commuted for itn-
prisonment during lifP-. In prison she be~aved with great
attention, gentleness, nnd docility. She le~rned to read
with extraordinary facility_, nnd she seizes with readiness
whatever is taught her."
In this case, the crime led Gall to expect smaU lot1e of off-
•pring and large destructivenes1; he found the reverse, bQt
confiding in the truth of his doctrines, he fearlessly an-
nounced the seeming contradiction. How well the recital
ofthe magistrates justified his confidence!
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
88 LOVE OP YOUNG•
.Prooft tlrtA111afrora a ltatt of duetue, ia fatJour oftlte pro-
poJitiota tAat tAt portiola of tAt brain btfore dt1cri6ed, is
tAt orga 011 tDAid tlt maiftstation of tic Lon or
YocNo depend1.
CASE 1.
In the great hospital ofVienna, there was a woman wlao
lmd A singular delirium. She believed heuelf to be preg-
nant with six children. Gall \VOS told ofthis, nod nttributed
it pmtly to extrnordionry dcvelopme~t of the organ of love
ofofl'•pring, and pnrtly to its over excitement. 'I'he womnn ·
died. 'l'he skull was scot to Gall, who found this pnrt llO
very "Yoluminou~, that 1\f. Rudolphi, the celebrated physi-
olo«ist, attempted to account for the protuberance, by
~me suppoaed presaure.-Gall'• Work•, Vol. III. p. 285.
CASE 11.
At Paris, Gall professionally nttended, for a mental dis-
ease, a "Yery amiable and modest young lady, who, after-
wards accompanied some friends to Vienna. She hnd
hardly arrived there, before ebe visited nil her ncqusintnnce,
and informed them with the most lively joy, that she wns
pregnant. This declaration, tnken in connection with her
known charncter, convinced her friends thot she was insnn(.
Her immoderate joy soon gnve plnce to violent anguish,
and an io"Yincible and melnncholy tncitnrnity. Shortly
after this she died a victim to consumption. Here, again,
the organ or the Zov~ ofoffspring IDCIS extremely derJeloped,
and, during life, this lady hod singularly loved children.-
Gtlll'• Worh, Vol. III. p. 286.
CASE 111.
Gall saw in the insane hospital of Amsterdam, a lady
who inceuandy talked like the lnst mentioned one. Her
head was emnU. '[he orghn ofthe love of offspring being
alone very much developed.-Gall'• Work•, Vol. 111.
p.l87.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LO?E OF YOUNG. 37
CASE IV.
A man in an insane hospital maintained that he was
about to be delivered of twins. Gall declared that he must
have the organ in question ""!! m~tch developed. An exnm-
inntion pro\·ed it to be so.-Gall'• Work.r, Vol. III. p•. 286.
CASE V.
"I hnve seen," snys SpurLhcim," several insnuewomen,
who fimcicd themselves with child, nnd they hnd the rc-
~ectit'e organ elcvated."-On Insanity: BostiJn, p. 108.
CAS£ VI.
" I snw, April 1836, 1\ wom~n in a Lunntic Asylum,"
:o:ays 1\lr. Combe, " who thought her children stolen. She
fell on her knee$ to the supcrintendent1 screaming with
agony·, and imploring that they might be restored, with n
depth of wo, which I could never hnve conceived it possi-
ble to express. lu her head the organ wns very large."
CASE VII.
"I attended some thne ngo," says Dr. Combe, "the
mother of n family, in a stat(> of delirium, chnrncterized by
intense anxiety nnd alnrm about the supposed murder of
her children, nnd who, on being nskcd, nftcr her recovery,
whut were her semmtions during the paroxysm, appliul
Iter hmtd to the region ofthe organ of philoprogenitiueneu,
ami said, that she wns conscious of nothing except severe
pain in that part oftlu~ head. She wns unacquainted with
phrenology, and nc,·er hnd henrd the subject mentioned by
me, sn thnt. her ~tatemcnt wns perfectly unbinssei:l."-On
Jlrntal ])crangemellt: Boston ed. p. 156.
~Inny other cases arc on record, in whiJ:h love of ofl'-
:tpriug hns been deranged, but, as the development of the ,
nr;7;nn is not mentioned, they only so fnr benr upon the
pr~sent subject, ns to show thnt this feeling mny be singly or
daidly nflcctctl. Pinel mentions n mother who hnd been
•listingui~Jhcd for great attnchment to her fnmily~ nnd whom
4
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
'1
88 LOVF. OP YOt: ~0.
domestic troubles htul thrown into profound mcl:mcholr.
She regarded the 'food thnt wns offered to her, ns the ptn·
tion of her children, and rejected it with inllignation~-On
Mental.Alunation, seconded. p. 296.
A native of the South Sea Islands, having hnd n child
tnken from her to make n sncrifice to 11 harbnrous itlol, went
mad, and in consequen.ce, becoming very troublesome, her.
countrymen killed her.-BurrOUJ's Commentariu, p. 22."
Proofthat the portion ofbrain before described, is the organ
nfthe LotJe of Young, draum from its growth tinder excite-
mmt.
It is known, and admitted, bynll physiologist!!, thnt CYen
Af\er persons have arrived at adult age, the diff~rent part!"
·of the body often become enlarged by well regulated exer-
cise; thE't·r~ame occnsionnlly happens in different parts of
the brain-thus, Napoleon's hend much enlarged in ccr·
tain directions nfter he first entered the nrmy. Bronssni~,
the great French physiologist stntes, thnt, within two nr
three yean that he wns engaged in deep reflection, nnd nr·
gumentative study, his orgnn ofcnusalityso much increns~d
that the difFerence was perceptible by menstm~ment. 1\fr.
KirtJeyrecords a cnse in which the attention of n motht>r
·wne concentrated on her children for a length of time, ou
necount of their fliekncPs, till she bPgnn to feel an inter•""!
in them never before experienced. This excitement of tht•
love of ofFspring, wn~, necessarily, accompnnied by incrent~·
P.d vnscular netion in the corresponding orgnn, nnd thi~
resulted in the permanently increased develO"pment of the
. part before designated.-See Edinburgh Phrenologit:al
JOUI"'UJl, Vol. X. No. 51.
Here we might rest tho case, but, as objections hnve been
made, Jet us brieRy notice'them.
Objeetitnt. A mother's love for her ofFspring is the ret~nlt
nfren10n•.·
o;g,tized by Google
I.OV~ OF YOUNG.
,
·.,
~~ ··
A11srcer. " Reason only investigates cnuses nnd effecltt,
and decides on a comparison of facts. The mother, whilt-
she smiles with ineffable joy on her tender offspring, doc~
not argue herself into the delightful emotion. The excite-
ment is instnntnneous; the object requirct~ on!y to !Je pre-
sented to her eye or imnginntion, and the whole impctu,o
of pnrental lo\'e stirs the mind. Hence a feeling or pro-
pensity is obviously the basis of the ntfection."~(Combe.)
Besides, it "often nets in oppoillition to reason in spoilin~
children."-
. (Spurzlreim.) And we find it in full euer~~­
nmong the most iutellectunl of mnnliind, nnd the mMt
ferocious brutes.
Objection. Love of offspring arises from kindness nnd
benevolence of disposition.
Ansrcer. 'Vere this the cnse, no selfish person should be ·
fond of children; hut, persons noted for ferocity and blood-
thirstiuesl.l, nr1~ often
strn n ~ly nttachcd to their
ofispring. The Chnribs,
the mo5t unfiwournbly or-
gnnized ofhumnnbeings,
and whom nil travellers
represent ns totnlly un-
regulated either by intel-
lect or benc\·olcnec, hnve this feeling decidedly strong, nnd
the orgnu ig nt~ decidedly developed. This the accompa-
nying figure will show.
Cnptnin Pnrry snys thnt love of offspring is n.lmost the
onlv nminble feeli1w that
• 1:'
the E~quimnux I ndinns
possess, but thut they pos-
sess it in n remnrknblc de-
gree. lie met and reliev-
ed n party of them, who
were without food nnd
alnaoat dying with hun-
Digitized by Google
I
·I
I
..
-=~---
=-...-..: --
..
LOVB 0' YOUNG•.
ger; the first thing they did was to feed their children, ne-
sle~ting themselves till they were fully sntiafied. In them
tho organ is greatly developed (1ce outline). .Agnin, this
feeling ie not lese strong in tho engle, or tiger, tlum in the
moat gentle and docile of "nimnls.
Objeetion. 'l'he love of offspring is proportionate to the
feeling of amativeness.,
Anstccr. Amativeness is strongest in moles, wherens tht'
Jove of offspring is the etrongest in females.
Objedi,,n. The Jove ofoffspring is the mere result of in-
stinct.
. ~llsiCtr. It mny be admitted .thnt Jove of offt~pring i~ nn
instinct, but then it docs not the less require to be manifest-
-cd tlarough a distinct cerebral organ. ·
Objection. "A mother does not love her infnut, becnn!=e
she has n protuberance, but because it makes, or has mndc,
a part of her hnppiness."-Journal of t11e Empire, cmcl
Dietionary oflfledical Science's, Vol. XXI. p. 210•
.An1roer. Children mnke n pnrt of her happiness, bec:11:~e
her organization fits her to receive pleasure from them.
Tbe proper activity of an organ being always plcnsurnble·
Objtclion. " A mother loves her child from the pnins it
has cost her, and the dnngers she hns been exposed to on
its nccouut."-,Journal oftile Empire.
Answer. J..ikc causes produce Jil(e effects. And for the
snme reason, she should love n dog becau·sc it hnd bitten
her, n bee becnusc it hnd stung her, or n horse because, by
its vicious turbulence, it had endangered her life.
Objection. But, we find mothers who love one of their
children, much more thnn the others ; how cnn this be ex·
plaincd on the supposition of love of offspring depending
on a blind impulsion 1
ArutDer. Phrenologists nhvnys tnke the whole organiza-
tion into consideration. A1 mother wiJJ nnturally love that
ehjld moat, which il' most plen~ing .to her other faculties.
Independent, of thitt, howc!ver, 1\lr. Scott, 1\lr. Combe, nnd
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LO\'E OF YOUNG. .u
other phrenologists hnvo rcmnrkcd, thnt tho direction of tht'
fcclii•g bcnrs u rtlfercncc to tho wcnkne~s or helplcssn('s~ of
its ohjccts, tlu\t " tho mother donts with the fondcl't delight
on the infnnt in the first months of its existence, nml lwr
solieituclo und uffcction nro bl•stowcd longest, nnd most in·
tensely, on the feeblest member of her fnmily."
Objection. Love of off~pring is mnnif~stly a moclificntion
of self-lo\·e.
Ans1cer. Then should parental affection be wenlt, iu pro-
portion ns generosity is ~trong; nnd strong, in proportion
ns generosity is weuk ; which is evidently not the ·ease.
We have now shown that the organ of the love ofyoung
is ulwnys pre::;ent, nncl that the corresponding feeling is al-
ways present; that the organ is largest in fcmnle!!11 and
that the feeling is strongest in fcmalmt ; thnt the t-~ize of the
organ ,·aries in animals of the ~ame t~pecies nnt\ sex, nnd
that the stn~ngth of the feeling vnrits correspondingly ; thnt
when the manifestation of the feeling is disordered, pnin iiJ
felt in the organ; that whc,re hnllucinntion of the feeling
exists, the organ is generally . v~ry large ; that in child
murdcrt!r~, it is gcnernlly very smnll; that when the feeling
hns been called into long continued manifestation, the orgnn
has increased in siz1.1 ; that such i:i the intimate correspon·
dence between manifestation nnd development, that where
one is known, the other mny be inferred. Here we close
our case, deeming the evidence adduced more than suffi-
cient to establish our position. ·
'ye now say to the nntiphrcnologist, there is, there cnn
. be no wny to a\'oid our couclusions, except by showing rhnt
we hnvc borne fnlse witness, nnd to attempt this, you will
hnve to question nature, who, if questioned, will, we know
full well, confirm the truth of our te~timony.
Until you have fl"' 'luestioncd nature, maintain not tha
we nrc false, becnuse you ore ignornnt ; thut light exists
not, because yon refuse to see. 'l'he King of Siam, ac-
cused the Dutch traveller offillsehood, for affirming, that, ia
...
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
_ _ _ _ _ _ _iiiiii_ _ _""""'........""""'-==
·-""" -·==-=~
ADVICE TO INVESTIGATORS.
Holland, water sometimes becomt>s solid. You neeu11e till ~.
. I
of falsehood, for maintniping that the mental faculties nrc ;
manifested through distinct cerebral orgnns, the power or ·
which may be proximately estimnted from cerebral ·devel- ,
opment. You blame the King of Siam ·for injustice- ·
· though.the congelntion of' wnter was entirelynt vnrinnce 1
~ with his experience, and beyond the range of his observn- '
tion-yet_ denounce us, though ou~ proofs are numerous us
the hends of men !
To tl•e sincere seeker after truth, we would enrnestly re-
commend observation. Do not, we pray you, sit down to
t~rgut agninstfacts when you may so rendily observe. Such
u course is as useless ns it is nbsurd. 'fhe organ which hull
been det~cribed, is one of the mosf easily distinguishable.
Compare then, with reference to this point, the heads of
your male nnd femQie acquaintance, especinJly the heads
of such as manifest the feeling strongly, and such ns mani-
fest it weakly. Compare the slmlls of mt\les and fcmnlcs
in anatomical collections, and the skulls ~f animals of vari-
ous ipeeieR, and ofboth sexes. Do this enndidly, nay, with
prejudice if you plent~e, t~o that you do it cnrefuJly, nod our
word for it, the sneerand shrug of pedantry, or self-conceit,
the denunciations of bigotry, und the forebodings of wenit-
ness and superstiJion will never be nble to uproot the eon-
.'fiction from your mind, thnt phrenology is true : m&d being
true, ia it not of God, tbe fountain of nll truth 1 Having
tati116ed yourself of'one fact, proceed cnutiouflly but pcrsc-
~ veringly, nnd humnn nature will gradually unfoM itself tu
· . your mental 'Yision, in nil its benutiful simplicity ; your
'Yiewa of man will be enlarged, of pr.ovidence corrected, mul
- of the great moral teachings oC Christianity demonstrnl•IJ
confirmed. ·
· It appears to me th11t the "In mtdi? tutusimus ibis,, 01
'
middle.course principle, has been much more lauded thnr
it desel'Yee. . A middle course l where ia there such 1
COUI'Jt 1 To a greater or less extent, whatever il not rigb
Dl •izedbyG ogle
THE IIIDDI.E COURSE PRINCIPLE. · 43
is wrong-whatever is not just is unjust-whatever is not
honourable is dishonourablc-\\ hntever is not tempernte iiJ
intempernte-whnten~r is not true is false. Now, the path
of right, of justice, of honour, of temperance, of truth, is
.not n middle, but the narrow nud only path of true philoso-
phy and ,·irtue. In mcdio tu(usimus iLas is gently syllabled
forth, nnd individual heroi~m becomes withered. .Aud to
tnl(e n ftrtn stnnd for some broad nud momcntou~, but un-
popular principle, urge its importance, nud nttempt it! pro-
mulgntiou, is considered eufficient proof of hnllucinntion.
'l'l&e absurdity of the " middle cmus~" men, is finely illus-
trated hy their expressions concerning phrenology; you
hC1ll' them remarking c\·cry day, "The general principle$
arc no doubt true, but the details nrc ridiculously absurd." ·
Xow, ns n general truth is merely n truth common to mnny
individuals, if the details he false, the general principle
must be i!O too. It is as impossible that any nccumu)a~ion
uf fnlsitics should constitute 11 truth, ns thnt the simuhnneous
infliction of various torments should harmonize into exqui-
roite delight. .
It may be truly said, thnt the light of every natural ·
truth exists nt nil times in the atmosphere of mind ; but, as
the natural light seems not to exist till the eye receives it,
t;O the light of truth seems a nonentity, till it mect:i with
some human mind, which hns n correspondence with itself.
It exists from creation's dawn, hut not till then does
it become known. From this mind it shines forth ns
from n sun ; nnd os nnturnl light is affected hy the bodx on
which it falls, and the medium throul!h which it pnsses, ~o as
tiU' light of truth radiates to other mind~, it hrcome~ bright-
ened, climmed, or darkened. 'l.'hu!c!, the truths of phrenology
had ever existed, but had Ye\·er been clearly recognized till
the coming of Gnll. In him they found the fittest medium
perhaps,that ever was; he gave hiuw:Mto their reception
with singleness of heart, nnd to their trn.nsmission with un-
paralleled ardour. Ilia light rndinted to Spurzhcim o.nd
Digitized by Google
.U THB RJI!CBPTION OF NE\V TRUTD!I.
Combe, nnd becnme incrt~ased nnd purified; to Cuvicr,nnJ
it becnme dimmed ; toGordon, nnd it became n bnleful nnd
afFrighting glare. lllessed is he who receives the light, and
- transmits it purified to his neighbour. But awful is the
conduct nf him, who turns the light of truth to the dark·
ness of error, prejudice nnd superstition; who, being made
n recipient of good, becomes n transmitter of evil.
Is IT TRUE t .is the only rational question on nny scientific
prQposition ; nnd the answer must be either in the nffirma·
tive or negative. Suppose a propo~ition to be false, to de·
eide thnt it is so without h1vestigntion, is childish nnd pre-
eumt,tnous. The rcnlly laud1lblc thing is the search, nnd
t11e impartial ma,.ner of conducting it. But how rnrc thit~
attention ·nnd impnrtinlity ! Thnt the world is slow to
practice goodness, nil n11ow, it is nlmost equally back·
\Ynrd to receive light. Every indiviclunl seems to conCt'll·
trnte his thoughts, nnd limit his view, to n certain spht>re.
Some t~phcres nre grentt-r, indeed, thnn others, but it i:l
true of nltnntlt e\·cry man, that if yon try to draw his atten-
tion to so1uething lleyoml his pnrticulnr sphere, he is ~ouscd
to pnssion, hy what he is plcnsed to deem impertinent in-
terferl'nce. 1\lcn, lilte do~s, seem ench to hnve a bone to
\Vhich they nrc pnying exclusive nttcntion. Try to with·
druw thnt attention, nnd you nrc rcwnrdcd by n snap und n
' -...silorJ. And ns in the cnse of the dog, so in thnt of mnn,
the tacrn!!git~st hone is gcncrully the most fiercely clung to,
nnd the mo~t vigorou~ly defended.
. Let it not be suppose«I thnt we admire men in proportion
to their fncility of belief, we hol<l credulity in low estima-
tion. J,ct it not he supposed that we ndmire those who pn~;:~
ftom n ·fifllt, or second lecture, stoutly declaring themselves
.to btl phrenolo~rists. It would be ns modest to declnrc
themselves astronomers, hoc~\usc they hnd lenrned thnt there
it only nn nppnrcnt, ~ot n renl, dnily revolution of the sun
round the enrth ; or, to declnre themselves geometricians,
because they hod learned that 11 two lines which are paralh~l
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
. DR. VUIONT. 4.5
to a third, are parallel to each other." 'VImt we do ndmirt.".
is a mind imbued with the love of truth nnd goodness.
What we nsk for, is rigid scrutiny, candid investigation,
1\nd that men will not decide against us before examining
evidence.- Grant this, and we fear llOt the result-for,
whoeve1· exumines, believes. 'l'his is confirmed by the
wh<lle history of phrenology, nnd, with a single instanct>,
in illnstrntion, I close the present essay.
In 1818, the Royal Institute of France offered a prize, to
the author of the best memoir on the anatomy of the brain,
in the four classes of the vertebral nnimnls. Attractell by
thit<, Dr. Yimont, of Cnen, commenced researches withoul
1 reference to phrenology; indeed, he hnd not rend Gall, nnd
hall only heard of him as n charlatan. Ilowe,·er, ns Gall
had written upon the subject of his researches, he thought
it incumbent on him to rend his worlt among other!!.
"llurdly," snys he, "had I begun to rend it, when 1
found that I hnd to do with one of those extraordinary men,
whom dal'k envy endcn\·ours to exclude from the .rnnk to
lvhich their genius call:~ them, nnd against whom it em-
ploys the nrms of the coward nud the hypocrite. High
l'erchrnl capacity, pr11fnund penetration, good sense, varied
i11furmation, W<~rl~ the. qualities which struck me ns dis-
tit•~uil!hiug Gall•. The mdiffcrence which I first felt for his
wri1iugs, soon ga\'c way to the most profound veneration."
-luttoduction, p. 1-l.
Vimont commenced investigations into the phrenology
of brutes, and continued them with extraordinary perseve-
rnncc. In 1827, he presented to the Institute, a memoir
containing n fragment of the resenrches on which he had
~pent so many yenr$, together with two thousnnd fh-e hun-
fli·ed hends of brutes of vnrious classes, orders, genera, nnd
species. Among these, fifteen huntlred hnd bclongl·d tll
brutes, with whose hnbit~, he luul been individunlly well
aequniuted before they died or were killed. He presented
four hundred wnx representntions of the brain, modelled
o; tized 'YGoogle
REC.UITULATION.
- after nature, nnd an ntl_as of more than three hundred fig.
urea of the brain .and cranium, having e~pended upwnrdt~
of twelve thousand frnncs in procuring specimen11. 'l'he
work in wl•ich he ·no\Y sets forth his observations, ·is .illus.
tmted by on utlns of one ln,mdrcd and twenty plates, con-
taining 1iz Aunclruljigure1. I hav.e seen an inferior editiout
published at Brussels, but not the work itsel£ 'l'he plates
nrt: said to be exquisite, and to surpass, in accuracy of di·
mensions, any thing before attempted in anatomy. Dr. EJ.
liotson remarks, that " if the immense mnss of proofs of
phrenology from the ltuman bend, and the fncts pointed out
by Gall, in brutes, ore not sufficient to convince the most
prejudiced, the additional multitude amassed by Dr. Vi-
mont will overwhelm them."•
I
1 hove now shown briefly, the·aberrations of the human .
understanding, ni1d the darkness in which it become invol-
-ved, previous to the recognition of the llnconian, as the
only true method of investigation. 1 hnve briefly endea
-voured to illustrate that method, its va!rt utility and impor-
tance ; and to prove, that by the rigid application of ils
rules, the principles of phrenology hnve been elabornleu
from nature. I hnve shown that, in doing thi!l, there has
been no mere conjectures, no anticipation of fucts, no custlc-
bu.ilding, nor hypothecution. But that phrenologista ho\'C .
procttedt!d in exact accordance with the order of the in·
tellcctunl fileulties. Like the bee, which, as Lord Bncon
nbsorrea, !first gathers matter from the fieldai and gardens, .
and then digests it and prepares it for use by its own native
powers, they hnve lnboriou~ly and carefully gathered facts
(rom n VAllt fidd of observation ; these they have rigidly
compnred nnd clast~ified, have noticed their multifarious ·
relationships, and detected the dependence of mental facul-
ties for manifet~tation on ·certain recognizable material or·
gane and conditions, "hich •they hove described and ex-
• Elliouon'• Phyaiology, 6th ed. p. 406.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
nt·:C.\ PITUI•.\ TION.
p)ained. In dning this, I have proceeded, somewhat 1\t
length, through the pr.>Ofd on which we rest our belief in
the existence of nn organ, by, aud through which, alone,
love of young iii runnifested.-Proofs sufficiently lltrong, it•
joined with the necessary per~onal investigation, to sweep
away all doubt, nnd overwhelm ull opposition. I han!,
finally, endeavoured to illustrate the folly and presumpt:ou
of those who decide without evidence, and erect thcmseh··!~
into oracles. And to impress upon all, that it is the cluty
of man to listen cngcrly forth~ voic.e of truth, and whctlu!r
it be beard in an appeal from without, or be heard, like the
"still small voice" of conscience, arising in the hour of
thoughtful meditatim1, from the depths of the soul, th;1t
whenever, wherever, however, it be henrd, for him it is to
ii>Jlow its dictates \Vith assurance of unerring guidance.
SKF.TCH
OP THB RISE, PRO~Rf~SS, AN» PllF.St~NT CONDITIO!Il, OP
P H R E N 0 I. 0 G Y •
ON no subject has the1·e hceu n grenter diversity of opin·
ion, thnu on the functions of the brain. It hns been re·
garded at~ R sponge, attracting to itself the humidity of the ·
hody ; RS a cold, humid ma~t~, destined to temper the heat
nf the heart; as a mere excresence of the llpinal marrow ;
as a prolongation of the blood vessels; as a collection of
confused intestines ; as a glnnd secreting an impure fluid ;
and even Bichat saw in it nothing more than an envelope,
destined to secure the pnrts on the internal base of the
brain!•
• See Gall. Vol. ii.; lntr~dnction.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
.f8 .\NCIENT OPINIONs· ON TllE BRAIN.
t
From the earliest recorded time hO\vever, there hnvc b~··n ~
: those whose views more nearly approximated to truth.
. Though these views can be considered merely os fortunntt:
conjectures, mixed up \vith gross absurdities. 1
· It is rcmnrkable, as Ehrenberg observes,• that 500 yearA .
before the Christian era, (and no historicnl record ascend~ .
.higher,) Pythngoras, to whom tlae existence of nerves wa'
unknown, should maintain that the brain is the chief sem ~
of the soul, and the sent of the inteiJcct.t In the treatise on
Epilepsy; erroneously ascribed to Hippocrates, it is assert·
ed that by the braiin we think and perceive, see nnd hear, and
elistinguish the base from the honourable, and the bad from
.t,~ good~ adding that its disorder produces frightful dream11,
.p6nic terrors, anti even mentnl der1mgement.t
We find that the multiplex chnrncterofthc brnin has hntl '
itl' advocates. St. Gregory cmnpnrcd the brain to o cit~·
with mnny gntes nnd n number of streets. Ncme&iu& tnught .
that sensation has its scot in the anterior, memory in the I
.middle, nnd under!tanding in the po&terior ventricles. AI.
l1trtut Magnw, in the thirteenth century, delinentcd a helul :
nn ·which be indicated the fnncied seats of the different ;
mental powers. Peter de lflontagnana, and John Ro'han dt
· Retlta111, in 1491 nnd 1500, published others. Re.rnard Gor-
·don, nnd Lodovico Dolci, n Venetian, published similar de·
lincntiontl. Servito, Willis, Bonnet, Bocrhnve, llnller, aaui
Prochn~ka maintnincd the doctrine pf plurality of orgnm
in tho brain.
Ag!lin, on obscnro notion thnt some <Iegree of correspon·
· clence, exists between tho size of the bend and the mentnl
charnctcr, hlll existed for ages. Tho ancient Eculptors ret'·
resented.their highly intellectunl men and gods with lttrgc
_heads, and their mere fighting men, and unintellectual dei·
.~ea with •nuzll one& This was doubtless the result of oh-
• On the ltntoture ot the nervou1 ay11tem 1 tee; 1.
t Diopn• Laert. Tiii I 30.
lDr.Cnip•..
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ANCIENT OPINIONS ON THE BRAIN. 49
serving that large size is most frequently the accompani-
ment ofintellectual.and moral greatnes:5. Thus they had
to represent Pericles as wearing n helmet to hide the extra-
ordinary size of his head, and Plutarch relates of him that
he might be seen sitting in the street fatigued by its enor-
mous weight; at other times, remarks the biographer, thun-
der and lightning issued from this monstrous bend with a
tremendous noise. Compare the head of Bacchus with
that of Jupiter, the one with a relati\·ely smull bend, th~
other with an enormous one. Compare th~ head of Venus
with that of .Minerva, great ditft:rence exists.
But the form of the head has also been recognized as
bearing a relation to the mentnl charnctcr. · Itis remarka-
ble, observes Dr. Elliotson,'k that Aristotle in his Physiog-
nomy, though he gives a number of ridiculous signs of .
character from the face and numerous parts of the body,
gives three only from the cranium, but those three are in
strict accordance with Phr~nology. "Those who have
a.large head are sag~cious, are like do's ;t those who have
a small head are stupid, are like asses; those who have a
conical head have no shame, are like birda with curved
claws.
It is no less remarkable, that one of each of these points
is spoken of, by ench of the three greatest poets:
"His fair large front nnd eye sublime declnre ·
Absolute rnle."-Milton's P"radisc l..o$1, b. h·.
• llum. Phys. 5ed. 370.
I t Yet Dr. Sewell enyg, "While Ari11totlo ~g:nd~d tho brnin u mKlti-
pkr., he considered a amniibend ns the 'tnmlnrd of Jlerfcction.'-(E.um.
Iof Phrenology, p. 121.) On this Dr. Caldwell nmnrk~. "I do not be-
l lieve that Aril'totle hna pronounced a 11mall head on evidence of •aup~·
, rior intellect,' beca11se I have been unable to find the888ertion in hit ori-
j giul worb-1 mean his works in his Mliw tortpe. I have carefuUy
, looked through his philo!lorhical writings for the tentiutent in queation,
' but looked in vain.-PAnnolon J'indknted, p. 30.
5
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
60 ~PINIONS OP DR. BENJAMIN RUSII.
" J will bave none on'ti we shall lose our time
And all be turned to barnacles or to apes
With foreheuda tlillan6usly MD-Temput, Act iv. 110. 1.
Uomer gives the b:.uest fellow who \VCnt to Troy ll conical
ltead-n miserable development of the sent of the morBI
sentiments.
Compare.the-statue of the·Glndintor with .thnt of Jupi·
ter, and you will find the one with a low, retreating fore·
head, thick neck and wide ba~ilar region ; ·the other with
• .n forehead truly ·magnificent, _piled up and spread out,
a worthy ideal temple for the nll comprehending intellect
of th.e "father of Gods and the king of men."
"The .nearest appl'oaeh," says 1\Jr. Combe, "to Gnll'11
"discovery which has come under my notice, is one that the
opponents of phrenology hove not referred to. It is eon-
.tained in nit inquiiy' into thc.> induenee of physical causes
upon the moral ·faculty, delivered by Dr. Benjamin Rush,
before o. meeting of the American Philosophical Society,
held at Philadelphia on the 27th of February, 1786. In
this inquiry coming discoveries mny be snid to have cast
their shadows before, and Dr. Rush, by observing and faith·
fully recording the phenomena of Nature, hns brought to
light several important truths, which have since been con-
firmed and elucidated by phrenology, in n mflnner that
evinces, on his part, extraortlinnry depth and perspicacity
of intellect, combined with the highest mornl qualities."•
1n this· essny Dr. Rush powerfully maintains, thnt over the
· manifestations of the mind, ·physical cnuse11 have a most
important influence. Ofthe peculiar features of Pbrcnolo·
gy, however, the distinctness of the cerebrnl organs,and the
possibility or eatimnting their force by external develop·
· menta, h~ take• no notice.
It appean to me, t~at no author hod approached more
. • AaiDqairy, a..o..with ID introductory notice, by Georp Combe,
. Pllilldtlpbia, 1839. . .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
OPINIONS OF SWEDENBORO. 51 ·
nearly to the doctrines of Gnll than Emanuel Swcdenborg.
t1te sincere, amiable, nnd highly mornl nnd intellectual vis-
ionary of Sweden, who ·was born in 1689, and who died in
1772. Throughout his voluminous writings, allusions to
the dependence of the mental faculties on material condi- ·
tions continually occur. To enable the Phrenologist to ·
judge of their value, I shall present t~ome of them in a
connected form.
Brain the organ of Mind.
" Tlmt the principles o~ beginnings of life are in the
· brains is manifest. 1. From sense itself, in .that when a man
applies his mind to any thing and thinks, he perceives tllat
he tltinks i" the hraill, he draws inwardly ns it were, with
his eyesight, and keepll his forehead intense, nod perceives
that there is inwardly a speculation, thitjly within tile fore-
.head, and somewhat above. .,.. * * 4th. That whc11 the
brain is hurt ei.thcr in the womb, or by n wountl, or by dis-
ease, or by too great application, thought is debilitated, nnd
sometimes the milld is delirious. 5th. That all the eztemal
senses of the body, which are the sight, hearing, smell,
taste, together with the general sense, which is the feeling,
as nlso the speech, are in the anterior part of the head,
which is called the face, and hafJe immediate communica·
tion by fibres with the brain, and derive thence their sensi·
tive and active life."•
"It is. there (the brain) also whence come the thoughts,
which nro of tho understnnding, a1id the affections which
nre or tho will."t
"For tho brnin, tchtre tht mind of.man is, hRth respect
to tho ends of tho body."t
• Divine Love and Divine Wiadom, Latin, Amatetdam, 1763. Eng-
lish, Boston, 1835. No. 362.
t A.rcaM Cmlestia. No. 4042.
•Idem. No. 4054, et putim.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
OPNIIOJifS or SWEDENBORG.
" Every one sk.ill~d in anatomy may see, that round
about the cerebrum, also within it, and in the cerebellum,
and in the spinal Diarrow, there are little spheres like dots,
- .called the cortical ~nd cineritions substances and glands,
and that all the fibres whatsoever in the brains, and all the
ne"es derived from them throughout the bodyt come forth
and proceed from those little spheres or substances. • ,.,. •
The eye does not seefrom itself, but by whnt is continuous
from the understanding, for the understanding sees by the
eye, and also moves by .the eye, determines it to the oh·
· jects, and gives intensity to sight. • '* * In like man-
..· ner the muscles, these not being moved of themselves, but
from the will together with the understanding, which actu-
ate them at their own disposal ; from which considerations,
it is evident, that there is not anything in the body which
feels and is moved of itself, but from ill origins, in wkich
reride the ilnderltanding and ·will, consequently, which are
in man the receptaclefl of love and wisdom, whilst the or·
gans.both of sense and motion, are forms derived from
tl1em.•"
lnjluente of the Br(tin on J.llcntal Opcratioru.
Many suppose thnt the perceptions and eogitntions of the
mind, (as being· spiritual things,) present themselves to us
naked nud destitute of nll organized forms ; but this is ow-
.ing to their ignorance of the formntion and offices of the
~rnin, watb the vnrious intertextures and convolutions in its
cineritions and medullarysubstnnces, ·its different gland:!,
•inews and partitions, and numberless imperceptible fibril-
.le, nnd these invested with its meninges and mntres, (durn
and pia,).nll which afford infinite mnterinls and receptoclct
to the mind for the eonfigurntion of idens. Now upon the
Rood eondition ·of the•e parts depends the soundne11 oj the
• Di•ine Lo'fe and Divine Wiadom, p. 66. See also Universal Tbe-
olo1J,No. 301, and ArcaDa C<Blettia, No. 4040.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
OPINIONS OF 8WEDENDORO. sa
intellectual operations, a11d the regular determination oft!re
tDill in this our naturolstate, so thata mnn is deemedrational
. or moral in proportion to the right orga11ization ofthe mental
forms; for the rational sight ofman, which is the understan-
ding can no more be said to exist llere in tlds outtcard world
without organs properly allopted to the receptiou ofspiritual
light, than the bodily sight to exist tcithout eyes."•
Distinct Faculties of tlte .Jlli11d have clistiuct Organs nf the
Brain, and ltlental activity affects the forn' of ~he SkulL
" Every man that is born hns a disposition to all sorts of
evil, which mu~t be checked by education, and as far as
possible, rooted out. This is first to be attempted by cor-
rection and punishment, then by good society and exam-
ple, which leads to imitation ; and at last, good is secured
upon a true and reasonable religious root. 'Vhen these
conditions are all observed, it is indicated by the beautiful
skull of the individual. On· the contrary, should th~ . -
education be neglected, or no sudden misfortune, or
opposition, hinder the first outbreaking~ of e\·il, or dis-
order, the evil nftcrwnrds becomes hnbit, nnd produc,~s
peculinr wishes, both in design and practice, which calise
tlrc formatio~& of a badly shaped skull. 'fhe cause of the ·
difterence of skulls, in such cases, is this: The peculiar
distinctions of man, will nnd understnndiug, have their
seats in the brain, 'vhich is excited by the fleetin~ desires
of the will, and the ideas of the intellect. Near the wdri-
ou~ spots where these irritations produce their eff~cts,
th~ or that part of the brain is cnlled into a greater or .lesi
~egree of activity, and forms along with itself correspond-
mg pn"s of the skulJ."t . .
c.I -
•T .
rea.tase on the nl\ture of inftux, by E. S. Boaton, 1794, p. 72•.
t I have not met with this pll.!IS3ge in Swedenborg's writings, but it ia
quoted by Dr. Sewell in his Ex. of Phren., p. 12, from a memoir or
Swedenbors, by Capt. Walden; Copenhagen, 1806.
o•
,
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
GALL A DISCOVERER.
0~ Recount of these things 11 few captious writers have
endeavoured to lessen, if not deatroy, t~e merit of GnU as a ·
discoverer; an attempt of which that noble spirit now
reeks not, and which can have no effect on the truth or
utility of Pbreuology. Still we remind such objectors that
Giordano Bruno bad snid "that it is by no means impro-
bable that there are other planets revolving round our own
sun, which we have not noticed, either on account of their
minute size or remote distance," yet this detracts not from
the merit of Herschel. Some had expressed confuaed no-
tions concerning the circulation of the blood ; yet we n).
low not this to tarnish the honours of Harvey. Bacon sug-
.gested ~hat there may be some kind of magnetic influence
operating by consent between the earth and heavy bodies,
the moon and the waters of the sen, the stnrry heavens and
.the planets; yet we strip not Newton of his crown. Ba-
con had said thnt it seemed to him incredible that the rays
of celes~ial bodies cftn instantAneously pass to us, and that
be suspected thnt the· stars are not seen by us in their true
situations; yet we do not consider this ns dimini!lbing the
merit of Dr. Bradley, the prover of the aberration of light.
· Bneon conjectured, that nir might be converted into water
··;--_by condensation; yet Uiot's fiuuc is not on thisl\ccount lcs·
·senod. A few fimncr~ luul long been ucqunintcd with the
efticncy of cow pox mnttcr; yet thi~ did not prccludo Jcn·
ncr from n pnrlinmcntury rcwnro, nnd n world's grati·
tude. So othors.durkly gucsscd,at what Gnll clenrly pro-
.ved~ He was not content with guessing; he demonstra·
ted, by labori.oue investigation nnd rigid induction. lie
trnnllcd from city to city, teaching ond extending hie ob-
servations: he devoted to the tnsk his property, his talents,
.hie energies for mRny yenra, steadily pursuing his course
amid laqghter, mockery and vituperation. Columbus like,
·he Ja7 notsupinely on his back, vaguely conjecturing that
beyond the mat and trackless ocean rt~ight lie some rich and
uncliJcoyered country. No; despite the'' Gorgons, bydr&Jt
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MEASURE OF 1\tENTAL (:APACITY.
and chimeras dire," which sec~ed to beset his career; des-
pite the storms ofopposition, the threats and forebodings. of
bigotry and superstition, he kept bitt onward course, nor
rested till the anxiously sought for land beamed upon his
sight-till be had planted his standard on the new, but no
longer unknown, world. Nobly did he win his laurels; be
it oua· care that not a leaf be plucked from his brow.
Those physiologists who admitted the brnin to be the or-
gan of mind, were pnrticulnrJy noxious to find, by its gene·
raJ form, or by its relations to other parts, a measure for the
intellectual fitcultics and the moral qualitie~. Of their.at-
tempts GnU gives a full account in the second volume of his
work on the Functions of the Brain.
Aristotle, Galen, anrl others.maintained that, of all ani- ;
mals, mnn had the most con~:~idernble. mass of brain, nnd !
that this accounted for his superiority ; but the brain of ~be · \.
elephant and that of the whale are heavier. The braiil of
s whale in the museum of llerlin weighed 5lbs. 5oz. ldr~• , :
Cuvicr and others have attempted to establish a relatil)tl.'
between the amount of mental capacity, and the proportion
of the brain to the rest of the ·body ; but the sparrow, the
robin, the wren, nnd several species of monkeys, hnve, in
proportion to the body, l\ much lurgcr brain than mnn.
'Vrisbcrg and Sremmcriug concluded that ofall animals,
man hns the largest hrain in proportion to the nerves in gen-
ernl ; but if the monkey, the litde sen dog, or mnny birdB,
be compnrcd with him in this respect, tbe result will be in
their favour.
Cuvi~r, Sremmering and Ebcl considered the relntive pro-
portion of the brnin and spinnl mnrrow ns the most infalli-
ble measure of the intellectual filculties. But Cuvicr him-
self admits that there nre exceptions to this rule, and nddu-
cee the dolphin as an instance.
Others maintained that the proportion of the brain to the
·• Miiller•a Physiology, London, 1838. p. 615.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MUIOU 01' M.
ENTAL C.UACITY.
face ii1dicates the mental capacity. Plato, and, after him,
Biehat·and Richerand, maintained that there is a propor-
tion between the length of the neck and the vigour: of
intellect, the shortest neck being the most favourable.
u Here," says Gall, "the authority of Plato proves but
·one thing, which is, that men who enjoy great reputation
ought, above all others, to avoid throwing out ideas at ran-
doni; for, however erroneous they may be, they will be
·repeated for centuries."·
In·order to determine the cerebral mass, Camper drew u
bnse line from~ the roots of the upper front teeth to the ex-
ternal openingofthe ear; then anotherstraight linefrom the.
upper front teeth to themost elevated point of the forehead:
according to him the intellect~lnl faculties of the man or
animal, are indirect proportion to the magnitude of tho
angle, made by those two lines. Lavater, with this
idea for a basis, constructed a scnle of perfection from the
frog to the ApoiJo Belvidere. Cnvier furnishes a list. of
men and animals in support of this doctrine. But the
facial angle of the same individual differs immensely nt
difFerent periods of life ; and Blumenbnch shows that near-
lyth~e fourths of the animals known, have the same fueinl
ongle.
Seeing then, that men were anxiously searching nn indi-
cation of mental capacity, and that each of the fallacious
methods above enumerated was received with favour, naul
was copied from book to book, nnd from periodical to peri.;. .
.odical, the respective proposers receiving in every ease an
increase of celebrity, on account of their proposition, it
would seem likely, a. priori, that Gall's discoveries would
hue been received with acclamation and not have been ·
atrenuoualy, and, in mlUly cases, ferociously opposed and
denounced. Men, on this subject, were involved in dark·
neu, and when·a twilight glimmer, or ignius fatuus faintly
twinkled on their searching eyes, they bent towards it with
eager gaze, and hailed a~d blessed it as the harbinger of
·o, ,,zedbyGoogle
RECEPTION OF PHRENOLOGY. 57
day ; but when day itselfbenmed suddenly upon them,they
closed their eyes nnd raved, and thus merely exchanged the
darkness of midnight, for the darkness of excessive light.
The history of the reception of Gall's discoveries, and of
. the treatment which his workll and those of his immediate
followers met with, from the authorities in .literature and sci-·
ence, will ever be an intere!lting chapter in the annals of
human civilization. 1\len talk largely of the superior lib-
erality of the present nge, and justly perhaps. '.rhis supe-
riority, however, appears to me to consist in the currency
of a number of opinions formerly proscribed, but which
have, from time to time, burst tlae barriers of prejudice and
bigotry, rather than in an enlarged apirit of cnndour to-
wards opposing doctrines. 'l'o pro'r'e our great~r liberality,
it i!l not sufficient to show that we receive all true, what our
ancestors rejected as false. 'l'o ascertain the liberality of
Harvey's age, we do not ask whether it beliel·ed the doc-
trines of Gnlileo, but how it r~ceh·ed those of Harvey.
1'o O$Certain the liberality of ~cwton':t nge, we do not nt'k
whether it belie\·ed the doctrines of Galileo nnd Harvey,
but how it received those of Newton. So to nscertain the
dt!gree of liberality which now prevails, men, in nfter times,
will not nsk whether we uccrcdited the doctrine!! of Gnlileo,
Harvey and Newton, bnt how we 'received those of Gall.
And I see not how the conclusion can be nvoided, that to-
wards that which is really new in l<ind, the present nge is
ns intolerant a!l were pnst uge$. The material rnclt nnd
fiaggot nrc uot, indeed, brought into requisition, becnu$e
philosophers do not wield the pow~r or th~ rnclt ; bccnuse
the conviction that such npplientions nrc utterly ineffi-
cacious, as suppreE-sive mensurcs, bas forced itselt~ by
long and horrible experience, on the minds of men. But
.when a profound gt!niu!!, after years of anxious nnd uu-
remitting investigation, during which ener~y would hnve
sunk, but for dac glowing and lofty hope of benefitting the
huruan race, brings forward a momentous discovery ; he
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
RECEPTION OP PHRENOLOGY.
is met with the dnrk sco\vl of insulted pride, and against
him. the shafts of ridicule, the rnck of sarcasm, and the
fires of rage nnd denunciation are brought into full play.
lie ofFers to his fellow men nn inestimable boon, and they
turn sneeringly nway, asking what "the babbler" snys,
waiting not for a reply. Or they mock at him and de-
nounce him, and strive to. blast his good name. The vio-
lent cry out charlatan and scoundrel, while the pretenders
to charity, in soft and silvery tones, beg that the poor un-
fortunate may be excused on account of his manifest in-
eanity. The history of Gall's disco-veries proves nil this.
Well was it that the great master and his immediate fol·
lowers could gaze on calmly and forgivingly, repeating thnt
ever memorable saying: " This is TRUTII though at enmity
tDith the philosophy ofages."
Gnll, on the 9th ofJnnunryl802, wa.s commanded, by the
Austrian. government, to discontinue his lectures on the
functions of tho brnin ; in consequence of which, he wns
forced either to cease his Jnbours, or tcnr himself from
friends, home, and n rich and extensive practice. He nobly
cho!le the latter, and onl\lnrch 6th, 1805, he left Vienna for
ever, Rccompanicd by his young associate Dr. Spurzhcim.
I t~hol~ not dwell on tho reception of the new doctrines by
the lnt~tituto of France, and by the scientific men on the
continent of Europe ; but shnll mnke n few extracts from
'British and· American works, ns demonstrative of the fore·
going remarks.
" We look on the whole doctrines tanght by these two
peripatetics, (GnU and Spurzheim) nnntomicnl, phytaiologi-
cal and physiognomical, as a piece of thorough quackery
from beginning to end." Edin. Revittl'. No. 49.
"They (the doctrines of GnU nnd Spurzbcim,) nrc a col-
lection ot mcro ab•urditiea, without truth, eonncxion, or
~naiatency; nn incoherent rhapsody, which nothing could
h&Ye induced an7 mnn to bnyo prctentcd to the public, un•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
RECEPTIO~ OF I'liR~:~oLOG\". 59
der a pretence of iu:;tructiug them, but absolute insanity,
gross ignorance, or the most matcltle11 ·arrogance." lbid.
"Such is the trash, the despicable trumpery." lbid.
" The writings of Dr8. Gall nnd Spurzl_}eim bave not
added one fact to the stock of our anntomj<(al knowled~.n
n~ /
" 1\lndame de StuiH is by 1hr too indulgent to such igno-
rant and interested quacks ns the crnniologist Gall." Lon.
Quar. Review.
"A wild effusion of a bewildered imagination." Dr.
Roget, in the Enc!fclopcdia Britannica.
"Fool and phrenologist nr~ terms as nearly synoinymou•
ns can be found in any Jnugunge." Blackzcood's Mag.
"These irifenlal idiots the phrenologists." lbid.
" 'fhe difficulty with phrenologyt is the !:!!!.!!-*'!!.e or
any evidence in favour of it." N. Am. Rev. July, 1833.
" Of the principal phrenologicnl writer11, including GnU
nnd SpurLhcim, and with one exception in favour of l\lr~
Combe, who appears to U:i! to hm·c ullowcd his nnturnl ncute
uess nnd professional tendency to hair-splitting to bias his
hettt>r judgment-we can say with sincerity, thnt to judge·
from their worlu, they nrc alike deficient in lcanzing nnd
accuracy." lbid.
" The mol:!t extrnvngnnt dCJlnrturc from nll legitimntc
modes of rcnsoning, nlthougli still under the colour of nna-
tomico.l investigation, is the system of Dr. GnU. It is suf-
ficient to soy, thnt without comprehending the grnnd divis-
ions of the ncrvo.us system, without n notion of the distiact
properties of the individual nen·es, or having made any
di~tinction of the columns of the ~piunl marrow, tcitla~ut
evtn having ascertained the cliffcrmtt ofcerebrum and ctre.
-
bellum, GnU proccclle<l to de:~cribc the brnin ns composed
of mnny pnrticulur and hulcpcndent orguns, nnd to nssign
to each tho residence of some spccitllfncuhy." Sir Cltarlu
Bell, 1836.
" Experience shows thnt the ty&tcm of orgnns proposed
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
60 HAS PIIRENOLOUY TRIU)ll'III::D.
by Ga,ll hns no fumul(ttim•." Blcmcut• of J>lry•iology, by
61 J.lfliiller. lfl. lJ. ; trmulfllctl roith JUlies by JY. Daly.lll.
J). J.,ntlml, ~~~k-1, I'· 8.17.
" l\1. i\lngc~aulic ilf very right, in pine ing Cranioscopy in
the IIRI)tc cntt•gury, ug A11trolngy und Alehymy." lbitlJ'· 838.
'fhcsc·cauututinus frum i\IHIIcr receive no comment from
the tnuuilutor nmlunnntut••r, mul mugt be supposell, there-
. fore, to CXJtfCllll hill owit view!!. ·
· It wouill tic cn!'y to multiply «Jttotutionlf written in the
111\mc gctictnlllttirit, but tltc.!$C will suilice to show the nmu-
ncr iat \\·liich Jtllrennlogy wns reeei.vcd. J:>or n triumphant
answer t.o the mendueious nssertioits thnt they contain, I
refer to tito reports which I lmvc the honour to present to
the public.
Uut I must here respectfully reco.rll my dissent from uu
opinion recently expressed lJy the most distinguished of
American phrenologists, in n lnte puhlicatinn, with the
gencrnl views of which I entirely coincide : " 1 hove said
nothing" soys Dr. Cu!dwcll u nbout the future triumph of
phrenology, for one of the lJest of reasons. Its triumph is
past; nnd there will be no renewnl of the w11r which it has .
austnined \Vith such preeminent success." Thoughts on the
true eomltzio~J between Plcrenology and Religioll.-Loui•·
wille9 1839, p. 19. Agnin, " Where is the writer ofstanding,
where the ·periodical of influence and authority, that now
contests the truth of these principles t they do not exi~tt."
lbitl p. 22.
Wbnt is n triumph t Clenrly n victory in which the oppo·
nent is completely subdued, nnd the victor'll superiority ac-
knowledged. Cnn phrenology yet clnim such n triumph t
A short time ago the London Quarterly trented it os false,
in n revie\V of Combe's outlines. And !!Iince thnt, the same
ReYiew has said of the accomplished Chenivix, tbat though
••a man of vigorous talents ond very considernble learning,
~ become n Md dreamer in his latter days, he wns a devout
dieciple of the Pltrenological quaekl." While I now \trlte,
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
HA.S PHRENOLOGY TRlUlUPHED. 61
a number of the Boston Quarterly Review, comes under my
notice, in which it is said thnt the "ignorance ami simplici-
ty," betrayed by phrenologists, "cnn hnrclly be expected
not to excite o. 11milc of pleasantry, or of contempt, in every
man of ordinary discernment and information." · (April,
1839. p. 229.) But twelve months ngo the respected
author himself, from whom I have quoted, wrote nnswers
to two opponents, both of whom, nro medical profl~!lsnr~.
Not six months ngo, (No\". 2G.lS38,_in the Cincinnati Dnily
News) he challenged three gentlemen, Drs. 1\Ic. Dowell
and Harrison, and Profel$sor l\lussey, to controversy, on
nccount of their denunciations of phrenology. But last
winter, the professor of Physiology in the l\Icdical college
of this' city spoke of phrenology as a mere chimera. E\·er~·
where we meet with denouncers nnd ridiculers of phreno-
logy. Every where is the acknowledgment of our bE'licf
received with a half-repressed smile. Surely, this cnnnot
be cnllerl o. triumph. That phrenology will ultimatcl.v
·triumph, I profoundly believe. Thnt it hns done so, I
am sorry to see stated. For it has a tendency to slnckcu
the energy, and cool the nrdonr, of young phrcnologigts,
to be told thnt "the entire day of actual wnr hns gone by ;"
and that the presumption is " they nrc flocking to gather
• the spoils of victory.'"
It is true, indeed, that the principles of phrenology nrc
p1·oved, but tlteproofofright no more constitutes o. triumph
in t!cience, thnn in war. It wo.s right thnt Polo.nd should
tJe free, hut Russia triumphed. That " by o.ll who hn\·e
studied phrenology its doctrines are accredited" mny be,
nnd is true, but the question is one of acknowledgment,
not of proof, and thnt exnminntion nnd conviction nre in-
.sepnrnble, 'vas nstrue before Dr. Caldwell himselfnccredit-
ed rhren~logy, ns it is nt this day. 'Vhen the physiology
~,f t te bram, as taught by phrenologists, sho.ll be thnt tnught
·n nll rn d" 1· ·
• e 1cn mstttutions ; when the mentnl philosophy de-
..reloped by thnt physiology sllllll be the mental philosophy
. 6
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
NUIES,
of tile schools and colleged; when the language ofthat phi·
losophy abnlt be seen in the current literature, and be
heard in the senate, from the pulpit·nnd the bnr ; then,
and not till then, \Viii phren~logy have triumphed. And
before that ~uspieious day come, long and arduous must be
. the sirtJggle.
But with pleasure and gratitude do we acknowledge, thnt
. ,that part of the struggle which hns pnsscd, hns been fur
an.ore arduous than thnt which now is, or which is yet to
come. That whntever nccusution may lie ngnitlst · other~,
· tho chargo of fnir·wenthcr chcuupionship can never be
brought against th9 Combes and the·cnl<lw<'Jis.
CRANIPJ.ooY \Vas tho name early bestowed on the phyei·
Q)ogy ot the brain, but Gnll thus ohjects to it: "Tlwy coli
me Craninlogist, and tho f!lcienco which I discovcrct1, Crani-
ology ; but, in tho first place, all lenrned words displeat~e
me; next, this is not one applicable to my profession, nor
one which really de~ignates it. The object cf my research·
es is the brain. The cranium is only n fnithful cast of the
external surface of the brnin, nnd is, c~nsequently, but a
minor port ofthe principal-object. '!'his title, therefore, is as
inapplicable as would be maker of rhymes, to the poet.''•
'fhe present nnme PHRENot.ooY, was not first applied by
Spurzheim, as Mr. Capen states ;f but by Dr. Forster.t
To designate the orgnns, GnU chose words or phrases ex-
pressive of the manifestations which he had observed them
to produce, lenving their confirmation or correction to future
observers ; following, in this rel'pect, the rule generally
adopted by scientific investigators.§ Spurzheim, conform·
•Letter to Baron Retzer, Tcntcben Merker, 1798.
t Bio1rapby or Spurzheim, Boston, p. 160.
*Skelclh or Phrenology, -by Dr. Thomas Fo111ter, London, 1816. A
Guide to Human and Coanp1ua~ive Phrenology, by Dr. H. .\V. ~ew·
bam, London, 1831, p. 14. Recuil dea Ouvrages ct do Peu.-6ea d'm•
Pbyaicien, Ire. par Thomu Fonter, Fnmcrortaur le Mein, 1836. p.12.
Elliotaon'a Blumenbacb, 1838, p. 690.
. t See Gall, •ol. 4, p. 13.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LABOURS OF OALL. 63
nbly with enlarged views offunction, changed many ofthese
names; in some instances, to others more npproprinte or
comprehensive. In nil his clumges, however, be was uot
so successful. .
I shalL now exhibit n co-nspectus of the principles estab·
lishcd, and the orgnus discovered, by the father of phrenolo-
gy ; together with hill proposed methods of classifying the
urgnns, nnd of classifying men according to organic de-
\•elopmcnt. Also, a brief account of his nnntomicnl dis-
cm·crics, nnd of the views he entertained concerning the
npplicntion of his doctrines. He established,
1. 1'hnt the mentnl faculties nrc immtc.
2. Thnt tho brnin is the orgnn of mind.
3. Tlmt the form nnd si1.e of the brnin nrc distinguish·
nhlc, by the form nnd size of the hend or slutll.
4. 'fhnt the mind possesses distinct faculties, and the
brnin is composed of distinct orgnns, and thnt ench mentnl
faculty is manifested through a distinct ccrebr~l orgnn.
5. Thnt the size of each organ can be estimated during
life, nnd that size, other thin~s being equat, is the measure
of power. .
6. 'rhnt enchorgnn, when prcdominnntly nctive, impress-
es the body with cci:(nin uniform nttitudes and movements,
called its nntural language.
He discovered the following orgnns : 1. Amntive.ness.
2. Love of Young. 3. Attachment. 4. Propensity.i«19p·
pose, or Combativeness. 5. Propensity to injore, or' .De..
str•~ctiveness. 6. Secretiveness. 7. Acquisitiveness·: 8. '
Self-esteem. 9. Love of npprobntion. 10. Cautiousness.
11. Educability, (nftcrwnrds discovered by Spurzheim nnd ·
the Edinburgh phrenologists to be compound, nnd to in-
clude the organ of IndividunJity nnd of Eventunlity.)" 12. Lo..
cnlity. 13. Form. 14. Lnnguage. 15. Culot,r. J6. 'l'une.
17. Number. 18. Constructiveness. 19. Comparison.
20. Causality. 21. Wit. 22. Ideality. 23. Benevolence.·
o,9,.ized b
y_Googie
LABOU~S OP GALL.
14. Imitation. 25. Veneration. 26. Firmness. 27. Won-
der. [See Gall, vol. 5. p. 211.]
Gall considered it probable, thnt there is an orgnu for the
propensity to take food. Dr. Hoppe, 1\lr• .Crook, 1\lr.
Combe, and others, have established it.
Ho supposed, at one time, that love of life is a distinct
function, and thought he hnd discovered its organ ; but sub-
sequently considered him11elf mistaken. A distinguished
editor of ScotlancJ, being in conversation with 1\lr. Combe,
remarked, that his love of life \Vas SUCh, that he WOuld ra•
thcr sulfer "eternnl damnation," than be annihilated. 1\lr.
Combe contrasting the \livacity of the feeling in this gentle·
man, with its compnrative weakness in himself, concluded
' that the difference probably depended upon the different
development of some distil1ct cerebral organ, and from thnt
limo scorched for an external sig!l. l)r. Conlbc, however,
l10s the merit of making the only valuable observation
which I have seen upon this subject. [See Phren. Journal,
1826, p, 467, and the succeeding lectures.] ·
Gall considered it probab1e that there i8 an organ of at-
tachment for lift. [Vol 3, p. 306.] Vimont thinks he. has
discovered ifA sent.
He. gave reasons for behe..ing the sense of order to be ~
distinct fundamental faculty. [Vol. 4. I'• 283.]
He thought tbe sense oftime must be a fundamental facul·
ty. [Vol. 5. p. OS.] .
Ho discovered the dependence ofattachment to place, on
terebral development, but confounded it with felf-esteem
to which it lies contiguous. Spurzheim seems to hoye cor-
rected this error, but tbe functions of the region between
Self-~steem and Love of Young nre still in dispute.
It has been objected to GaJJ, that his works are a series
of disjointed facts. No assertion can be more incorrect.
He did not, indeed, reduce his doctrines to a system of ex·
act cl011i6cation, but he pointed out almost oil that is valu·
able io the claumcationa now adopted. Gall was not a
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
system maker, according to the usunl acceptation of the
term. But while he kept nsz;iduously nt work, estnblishing
fnct after fnct, be was keenly scrutinizing tho results of hil'
Jnbours that he might discover, if poz;sible, the arrangement~
of nature's self. 'Vell wns he rewarded for his pl1ilosophic
caution. System gradually" rose like on exhalation" from
the seeming chnos. It is believed by the faithful followers
of 1\lahomed, that to form the temple of 1\lecca, a stone
. came rcndy hewn from every mountain in the world, exactly .
fitted to fill the place it now occupies. So with the phrc-
nologicul organs. AU at first seemed confuz;ed and unre-
lated ; but gradually they grouped themselves together,
enclt in its prop.er place, and formed, before the admiring
eyes of the great investigator, a system of wondrous har-
mony, nnd of matchlc~s symmetry an<l beauty.
~' After I had n thou~nnd times considered the nrrnnge-
ment of orgnns," snys Gall, "I wns struck with the follt>W•
ing grent truths :-
" 1. The qunlities and the faculties, which are comtnC\n to
man nnd animals, have their seat in the inferior posterior,
the posterior inferior, or the anterior inferior parts of the
brain.
"2. The quulities ancl.fhcultieswhich mnn cxch1sively en·
joys, nnd which form the barrier by which he is !i!cpnrntcd
from the brute, hove th~ir sent in thol!e ports whiclt nro
wanting in animals, and we must consequently seek tht•m
in the nnterior superior, nnd the superior anterior parts ot"
the forebend.
"3. The more indispensable the qualities and faculties
mny be, the more nearly are they pineed to the base of the
Lrain, or the median line.
" 4. The organs of the fundamentAl qualities and facul-
ties which aid each other, are placed near ench other, as
the organ ofthe love of offspring, and that ofthe instinct of
propagation.
'' S. The organs of the fundamental analogous qualities
6•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
68 COMPARATJVB MERITS OP OALJ, AND BPURZHEII\1.
peror of Austria. And in the opening of the sixth volume
ofhis smaller-work he remarks~" I have always had a con-
I!Ci~usness of the dignity of my researches, and of the ~x­
t~nded influence which my do.ctrines will hereafter exercise
on n11 t1ae branches of human knowledge ; and for this rcn-
son I am indifferent \Vhnt may be said, either for or ngainet
my works~" And, immediately afterwards, ns if n vision
of futurity bnd just burst upon bis sight, he exclaims:
"'Vhat advnnces in comparntive anatomy, physiology, nnd
.:ompnr~tive pathologyof the nervous system ! 'Vhat fruit- ·
ful .sources of undeniable principles for philosophical stu-
die~ for the art of selecting, deducing the good from the ·
dispositions of individuals, for directing the education of
the young! What precious mnterinls for n criminal legis-
lotion, .founded upon n complete knowledge of the motives
of lmmnn actions ! How diftcrent will history appear to
him who knows how to appreciate it,ar.cordingto the domi-
nant ·propensities and faculties of those personages, who
hove been its great actors."•
• Gnll, Yol. 6, p. 2. It ia 83id by Capen, that, in Paria, Dr. Gall rellli-
&ed a bandeoane fortune. [Biography of Spurzhtim, p. 'Sl.] Dr. Elliot-
lOU, on the eontrnry, whoae meau1.1 ofobtaining correetinform11tion seem
to bave been ample, s.'lys, that "Till G:~ll established himself iu Paris,
and ro!IO into a very fine practice, (he was physician to many ambn--
dors,) he kept himselfvery poor from spending upon hi• phrenologic11l
· punuits, all he gained, aner Bbsolutely neceBSilry expenses. And altbou~h
he lived then in tho most private manner, with the comforts indeed of a
banil11ome lodging, a c11rringc, nnd a garden with R small honse in the
mbnrbt, he had IRVed so little, that had his illness been protrncted, hi•
friends, in a few month•, mull have supported him." [PAys. 6t/a ed.
J'· 404.]
Gall, in his petition and remonstrance to tho emperor ofAustrill,
[1802] says,'' 3. To this perilous injiary to my reputa,tion, involving the
lo• ofall the advantages arising from the hard earned confidence of the
pnblic, most be added 11 colllequence deeply affecting my interest. My
collection or plaatercuts,~r the skulls of men and animal11, and ofthe
- braiu or men and animals in wax, hu cost me nbout aewa tMKsaJul
/fllltla; and I have already: made very expen1ive preparations, exceedi11g
ba amoaat AftMa cAouad pltkrl, for a splendid work on tbe function~
Digitized by Google
COl\ll'AR \TI\'F. 1\IF.RITS OF G.\LL AND S.PURZIIEUI. 69
J hnvc statc,t thus nt length our amount o£ intlebtcdncss
to GnU, ns the groundworlt of the opinion which I now ex-
press, with respect, but with the profound coiwiction of its
truth, that from by far the greater part of British and Ameri-
can phrenologists, Gall has never received justice. Thi:~ is
not wonderful, indeed, for his works were expenttive, nnd,
until recently, entirely in n foreign language. Besides,
Spurzheim., and not Gull, introduced phrenology into
· Britain, and taught it in the United States. . His manners
"·ere winning, his m.ind of a high order, and calculated
to leave an impression of intellectual nnd moral greatness.
And nmong those who received tho doctrines which he
taught, Revcr~oce bowed to him, and Benevolence warmed
towards him, nnd friendship clung to him, nnd Conscien-
tiousness yearned to discharge, as far ns possible, that debtof
. obligation to which the inestimable truths ofwhichhe\vas the
minister, hr.d subjected it, nnd it wns seemin;;ly forgotten
that he wns not the master~ GnU and Spurzheim were used
ns synonyn)es, and the latter more often and \Vith more
prnise than the former. Ile-lt.Ce, it appears to me, nre we to
account for the frequent occurrence of the phrase"f1Jti1lders
of phrenology" applied to GnU nnd Spurzheim, though
Spunheim hnd no more to do with founding phrenology
than the writer of this sentence ; and for such .opinions
as the following :
"Dr. Spurzlteim found by observation, thnt in an individ·
ual who manifests great self-esteem, n certain part of the
brain is fully developed : nnd likewise,.that the individual
carries his head high, and reclil1ing backwards."'*
" The mind of Dr. Spunheim, in our opinion, seems to
have been cnst in a still more metaphysical mould than that
of Dr. Gall, who, though be has shown very uncommon
of the bro.in, which bo.s been universally demanded of me: this property
will be rendered useless, by destroying my reputation." [Set Combe'I
trantlation of GaU and ot,W., on tho urehdl~&m, ~~ IAndotl, 1838,p. 334.]
• Combe'• answer to Roget.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
'70 COMP4RAT~VE IIERIT8 OF GALL AND 8PUaZHEI)J,
ocutene.ss in his abstract inquiries upon mind, has yet left
10me poin~s ao feeble aa to endanger tire tlJlrole system."•
"Spurzheim, the nnatomist, who, by dissecting the brnin,
Jrst displayed to the eye its fibrous and ganglionnry struct- ·
ure, anddemonstrated the direction and connection of its
filain~mts;"-"~the philosopher; who, by the greatness ot'
his own mind, rais.ed crnniology and physiognomy to the
ethical science, phrenology."t
"Gall and his no len illustrious assocint~.''f
· "From the moment Spurzheim became the nssocinte of
Gall, the anntomy oftbe brain nssumed a new chnraeter.''§
" Wlu~t t\ debt of grntitndP. do we O\Ve to Gall.''-" But
n ~till deeper debt do we owe to Spurzheim, whose sagacity;
.amidst alabyrinth nf apparent absurdity, found n clew to
guide him to the shrine of Reason-whose resistle~~~ undcr-
stnnding, penetrated the elraos ofdeformities, exaggcratimu
au abuses, and saw, benenth the crude nnd shapeless t~~ass,
the true design of Omniscient Benevolence."ll
"TIU\t Spur.theim was superior to Gall as on anatomist,
we believe, all admit.''1T
"'Time will.prove that the.foundation of the sctcnee of
phrenology was lnid by GnU: hut, that without the aid of
Spurzheim, tlac srlperstrrccture had not been reared."*•
I might greatly incrense the number of such quotntion!il,
but the,;e willsuffice. Time, the great vindicator, who ever
rc8tores to the wronged one the riven spoils, will decide
strangely indeed, if he decides ns Dr. Stedmnn indicates :
•" Without the aid of Spurzhcim, the supert~tructure had
never been reared!" Before Spurzheim's engagement, ns
Gall's assistant, the father of phrenology had thrown down
• Cheoivix'a art. in For. Qua. Rev. t Annal11 or Phren. Boston,
1835. P· '72. *Tmmalntnr'• )\rflfAI'.I\ tn r.,.n·. wnrlr•. 6 l'tfAmnir or
Spurzheim, by Dr. Carmichael, p. 4: I Ibid p. 95. 'I Memoir or
Spurzbeim, by Nahum Capen. p. 164. •• Dr. Stedmaa'• preface to
Spaisbeim'a u.tomy orthe brain. Doton, 183S.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
COI\IPARATIVE l\IERITS OF G.\LJ, o\1\:D Sl'URZIIEIM. 71
the accumulated touperstructurcs of ngrs,.hnd cleared away
the rubbish, had lnid the foundation of the new ttmple
brood and deep, nnd hnd reared by far the greater part of
its mas:;ive wnlls nnd its e\·erlusting towers. 'l'hc fnithful
student of Dr. Gull's worl\s cnnnot, I think, rend some o(
these quotations without a feeling of regret, that Dr. Spur-
zheim's eulogists should hove thus attempted to raise their
friend nt Dr. Gall's expense. A just 'appreciation of his
talents did not require it; for we need not n•lmire Spur-
zheim the less, because we ndmire Gall the more•
•
Let me here then recapitulate the following undeniable
fucts: Dr. Gnll demonstrated the Un$ntisfactory nnture of
all existing explanation_
s of mental phenomena, nnd of the
functions of the brain, nnd the true method of investi·
gnting ttuch phenomena, nrid such functions. · lie alone es·
tublished all the great fundamental principles ofphrenology.
He discovered three-fourths of nll the organs yet known.
IJe discovered nnd developed the naturnllanguage of the or-
~ans. He pointed out, in n general wny, the applications
of phrenology to insanity, education nnd jurisprudence.
lie indicated the mode in which men, nnd the organs
might be classified, and in which investigntions should be
continued. Finally, he discovered the great lending facts
concerning cerebral structure ; in developing which, those
who followed him had merely to pursue the same course.
Io vie\v of these things how can it be pretended that to
Spurzheim is due equal, if not superior meritt The ques-
tion is not whether Spurzheim had superior me~tal capaci-
ty, though the magnificent ·cerebral developme{lt of Gall
must decide that question in the neg!ltive, but whether
Spurzheim achieved more than Goll. And when ·so ex-
pressed, the onswer must rise up in the mind of every man,
with a feeling ofsurprise thot the ouestion should ever have
been conceived. ·
But I must go one step farther, nnd with reverence, with
a deep feeling or responsibilityt but desiring in all things,
_ o, '"'edbyGoogle
•
·72 BPURZDEIM91JJ DEPRF.CIATION OP GALL.
an\! above nll things to be true to my own convictions, must
say, that I do not eon1.1ider Dr. Spurzheim as entirelyblame·
less. In his works we find none of that beautiful displny
of grntitude towards his master; which we so often meet
with io the works of 1\lr. Combe and others townrds him-
self, but on the contrary, a tendency to depreciate. It hod
been asserted that GaiJ pretended tohnvc discovered nn orgnn
ofmurder. Now Gall never pretended to nny such discovery•.
What he did disc_
over, and what he stated himself to have
discovered, w~ a propensity to kill for food. Yet Dr·
Spurzheim countenanced and repented the nccusntion. Gall
,\\"88 accused of'maintaining tl1Rt there was an organ of
theft; now, he never mnintnined that theft wns nny thing
else thnn the abuse of acquisitiveness. Yet Spurzheim
countenanced and repented the nccusntion. Again, Dr
Gall gives seven tests of a fundnmentnl faculty* which
Spurzheim imitates,t nnd then, without accrediting GnJI,
adds, that Gall did not determine nuy of the organs in con·
fonnity with such ·tests. But once more, Spurzheim says,
" His (Dr. Gall's). talent, and the sphere of its operations
had their Jimit~, and since our separation in 1813, Dr. Gnll
has·neither made a new discovery, nor a steptowards its im-
provement."( This, is at least, an inconsiderate stfltemeut,
f9r in 1813, Gallwns fifty-eight yenrs ofage, twoyenrs older
than Will D.i'." Spurzheim nt the time of his death ; he had
been engnged &om his youth in intense cerebral action; his
powers had begun to decay ; he hnd nlmost fulfilled his
destiny; tiotbing remained for him to do, but thnt he should
complete the presentation of his labours in due form to the
world. Truly did he himself remark, " The foundation of
this useful doctrine is estnblishcd, and it should be as firm
u tho facts, the matcriats or which it is constructed. But
I am far from believing, that the edifice is finished I Neither
I
'.
• GaiL•ol: i~. p. 134, alld •ol •. p. 250. · t Spurz. •o.l~: i. p.,1321, ,
t 8pn1Sbeim• Notea to Cbeoi•br, note 3. p. 99. · · 1
o,J,zedbyGoogle
SP~R7.HEIM18 MERITS.
the life nor the fortune of one mnn, can be sufficient
for this vast project."• I think it cannot be shown in the
annals of the humnn race, that nny man ever laboured
more assiduously, or more successfully, than did Dr. Gall,
ur that nny man ever presented to his rnce so rich a boon ,
nnd is it becoming, to dumn him with faint prnise, becnusc
he did not labour still more assiduously and successfully,
und present n still richer boon 1 Because he did not show
in the decline of life,the vigour of undccaying manhood 1
1'rue it is that Gall's talent, and the sphere of its opera-
tions had their limits; he was finite; but that limit wa~ a8
wide as man's ever was. He was one of those few itumor-
tals who for ever tower in awful majesty above the Wllter~
nf oblivion, nmrking the grand eras of human history, fnr
better than years, or Olympiads.
But though I cannot for a moment consider Spurzheim n!t
IJaving equal merit with Gall, yet to him nlso we do owe
much. He stood by phrenology firmly, and battled for it
manfully, when the most fiercely assaulted; he for a long
course ofyearsdevoted to its investigation and promulgation,
talents and energies ofa.high order. lie corrected some er·
rors into which Gall had fallen, and mnde many obscrvutiona.
t~nding to strengthen and confirm his discoveries. He, him-
self, made other discoveries, both in the anatomy, and
physiology of the brain. He discovered the organ of Con·
&cientiousness, that of Hope, of Size, of 'Veight, of Or-
cler, and of Time, and pro\·ed the organ of EducnbilitJ·
to· be compound. He was the first to apply, in detnil,
the doctrines of phrenology to the tren~ment of the in·
t~ane, and the direction of edu'.ation ; which he did in im
a<hnirnblo mnnncr. For these things his memory will
ever be held sacred ; nnd because of them, l1c ·vas, em
tho denth of GnU in 1828, deservedly ncknow1edgcd by uni-
Tenlll consent, oa tho head of the new philosophy. But
• Gall, vol. Ti. p. S.
,.,
• Digitized by Google
..
··14 . COHRB'S HIRI,.B.
not long did he survive his great master. In 1832, just aa
America had commenced to be blessed with tho outpourings
of hiaJ vast knowledge ~nd .experience, his light was extin-
guished. ·
But 1\lr. Combe, who bnd long been second only to Spurz·
beim,.survived. He hod advocated phrenology with singular
success, nod repeJJed its nssniJants with mnnly vigour, 10
tempered with knightly courte~y, thnt, while they reeled
from tho co~ftict, they could hardly withhold respect ·and
proitte from the victor. .Perhaps no mnn hns ·R greater
~wer. than he, of reducing nn n.rgumcnt into its elements,
and of ~epnrnting whnte.ver is sound, from whutever in fn.l-
lacious. His fine nnnlyticnl talent acts with the rendiness
and cert.ainty almost, of n chymical test. The crowning
merit of Mr. Combe, however, consists in hi~ complete
knowledge ofthe principles, details, and evidences of phre·
uology; his zealous and masterly applicntion of them to
the advancement of human civilization; and in the elenr-
ueiJs, force and beauty, of his writings, which, while they
aatisfy the most profound judgment, nnd gratify the most
refined taste, .ure rcndily comprehended by the popular
mind. His worlls, therefore, nrc more extensively ·read
' than those of nny other phrenologist. One of them, The
Constitution of 1\lnn, hns, I believe, n circulation ttn·
parnlleled in the history of philosOJlhicnl works. In it he
baa well nigh solved the problem of humun happiness and
htJman destiny. In rending it the pulse of the philRnthro-
pist beats high with excitement, hi11 muscles stiffen with .
energy, his countenance beama with anticipation, Ol)d his
eye brightens \Yith hope, ns he looks through its pnges at
the panorama ofcuming events, and seesJusticc nnd BeneT·
•olence, aurcly though slowly, subjecting nil things to them·
HITes ; u he .Bees thnt the golden age, which poets feigned
to be past baa yet to COme i thl\t the COUri'C of IIOCicty is not
u from noon to night, but ns from dawn to meridinn day.•
... ....... bef~N me, II Aa upoaure Ao., or Combe'• CoutitutioD or
oi tized 'YGoogle
VJMONT, UCCELLI, ETC. 75
On Combe then did the mantle det~cend at Spurzheim's
death. Nobly and g~:nccfully bus he worn it, tmd lung may
the time bc,betorc this third prophet is summone'l from his
t~phere of usefulness !
It would he ·n pleasing employment to do justice to nll
who have been engaged in the promotion of phrenology,
but my limits would not permit, even if I had ample know·
ledge for the tRsk. l cnn therefore merely say, in brief,
thnt to Dr. Vimont, ns before obsen·ed, arc '~ indcbt«id
for the best work on comparative phrenology; ho thinks
too, that he has discO\·ered two organs which hnve not been
before nllude<l to: namely, n gemnetrical sense, and a sen·
timent of the beautiful in arts. Let not the lamented Uc·
celli of Florence be forgotten ; who, for expressing his be-
lief iu phrenology, lost his chnir in the University of that
city, wns persecuted with blind malignity ; to whose re-
mains were denied the honours which his students wish~d
to pay, nnd of whom nil biographical accounts were pro-
hibited. 'fo Sir George 1\le. l{enzie, 1\lr. Cox, 1\lr. Simp·
5on, 1\lr. 'Vutson, 1\lr. Scott and other collnboi'ators of 1\lr.
Combe, much credit is due, and nlso to Dr. Hoppe of Co·
:\fan; being on antidote to the poison or that pnbliention, by \Vm. Gil·
liapio. Edinburgh, 1837." lad\'ise those who can borrow tbi1 work,
to do 110, and rea<l what has been called "on ellieient antidote" (~eo
~lothodist Magazine,) to 1\lr. Combe'• work, by a gentleman "moru
than a match for l\lr. Combe," {11co Christian AdYoeate,) by on ontag·
onist, in short, "whom it will be difficult if not impo,.sible to vanquish.••
(See Edinburgh Evening Post.) The ehier argnment oOir. Gilli<'pic,
may be thus stated: "Ir l\lr. Combe be right, then somebody else is
wrong; therefore, 1\lr. Combo is wfong." lleavo the author to throw
it into tho syllogistic rorm. But I must really give him credit for the
inthnnto aeqnnintnnee ho mnnirc!lts with llndibrns an,t Don Qni:{otte,
the Dictionary ofQnotationll, 1\lld tho Rowers or tWI\Ildle and vitnpora•
tlon. lie also dofcndA tlto Devil witl1 nuteh zeal, bnt ror what rt•asou I
lUll ata losa to determine, 10eing that 1\lr. Contbe no whero attempt~~ to
~epreciate the merits, or interrere with the pretcriptive rigbta of that
powertul potentate.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
'16 DR. ELLIOTSON.
l~nhagen, ao able and indefatigable advocate of the phre-
nological doctrines. ·
To Dr. Elliotson nre we indebted fc>r his early, zealous,
and t~nremitting advocacy of phrenology in England. He
l1ai the merit, too, I believe of being the first writer in the
.'English language who hns attempted to do full justice to
the comparative merits of Gall. 'Vhilst preparing the mat-'
ter which eonstitutes·this sketch, I received from n friend
tbe doctor's notes to the fiflh edition .ofBlumenb11ch, which
have enubl~d me to mt~ke my own more complete. It wa11
pleasing to find the claims of Gnll so nbly maintained, but
priinful·to witness the doctor:, in the ardour of his zeal for
GnU's fame, seem noxious to destroy that of Spurzheim, by
presenting nil th~t he thought exceptionuble in his works
. and character, and by keeping out of view nearly nil thnt
was good and great.
· Dr. Elliotson, bas, however, been assailed for stntin.g
.,what is indubitably true, regarding Spurzheim's altering ,
tbe situation of organs on the bust. Tht! alterations which
he mentions, and some others, I pointed out three yenrs
ngo to the Ne'y York Phrenological Society, and to my
friends many times since. And nlso, in November last, to
u distinguished phrenologist, who wrote to 1\Ir. Capen, the
hiogrnpher of' Spurzheim, to ascertain whether the chart
published in the lost edition of Spurzhcim's Phrenology,
and the bust purporting to be hi$, nnd sold by Mnrsh, Capen
· & Lyon, were authorized by Spur~heim. 'fhc onswer wnt
thnt they were mnlle "according to his directions before
his sicknct~s." Believing that tho cnusc of truth cannot be
injured by rectifying crr?r, any moro than thnt mctnt cnn be
•leprccinted by refining away its dross, in December I ex-
posed these discrepancies, in print, nnd showed that Spur-
zbeim was at striking and irreconcilable variance, not
only .with other phrenologists, but with his former self, nnd
.with nature. The London Phrenological Journnl notices
the article, and approves ofthe conclueions drown from its
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
DR. ELLIOTSON. 77
fucts and statements; namely, that Dr. Spurzheim's latest
bust was probably marked according to some fa11cied pro-
priety, and that the Edinburgh bust should be used in pre-
ference.
Again, Dr. Elliotson says, "To prove Dr. Spurzheim's
speculative spirit, I may mention, that, instead of giving
the origin of ally of his asserted discoveries, as GnU did;
and adding n host of examples, he tells us, in regard to the
organ of inhnbitiveness only, that a gentleman much at·
. tnched to his house, had n particular spot of his bend
much hotter than any other ; nnd, in regurd to the organa
of hope, &c., he neither tells us how he discovered them,
nor adduces a single proof." On this, 1\lr. H. IInley Holm,
in the London 1\ledical Gazette, thus remarks, u· Does Dr.
Eltiotson mean to insinuate that Spnrzheim wns not justi-
fied in modifying his opinion~, ns experience gnve him fur-
ther opportunities of perfecting them t" I confesiJ that I
cannot perceive the appositeness of this question. Dr.
Elliotson has been insinuating no auch absurdity. 'Vhat
he complains of, nnd justly, mny be best seen after quoting
another and succeeding passnge from 1\lr. Holm : " I wiU
direct immediate attention to the following quotation from
it, (Spurzheim's Phrenology,) in order to show Spurz-
heim's philosophi~nl turn of mind, as well as his candour:
'Iu examining the fundamental powers of the mind and
their orgnm•,t snys he, 'I shall altoays follow the same pro-
cedure. I shall first consider the individuul actions, then
gi11a the llistory oftilt discovery oftilt organ,' &c!' Now
it i!it obvious thnt Dr. Spurzhcim ha.- not fulfilled liia own
conditions, with rc!'(lCCt to the organs mentioned by Elliot• ·
son ; he has not given " the history of the discovery of the
organs." And I agree with Dr. Elliotson that this ii an. ·
important omission. To show th~ necessity and value of
such detnils, it may be mentioned thnt the gro"th of the
brnin in adult age, in particular directions, from special
excitement, is jus.tly considered as a Ul08t interesting quee-
7•
g. •izedbyGoogle
'
t; (' '. '\ • I ,
") •
i8 PHR.Bl'fOLOG~CAJ. SOCIETIF:It AMD JOURNALS.
tion. ·we want (net• on this subject, well authenticated
rnets. Now Spurzheim· snys, "·It is a remarkable.fact, that
the forehend inerenses very early, nnd continues, wl.en ex·
·~reised, to grow very late in life•.. ·1 hnd positive obsen1ation~
· thnt,.ofter the age of thirty-si-x and forty years, the fore-
.heaclltns increased an inch in size."• Had he shown koto,
a\nd t.Dken, nnd on tohom, his·observations had been made-
had be, especially,produced the easts and measurements of
the hends to which he refers, before and after 11ueh remark-
able increase in size1 he would have done much townrde
~ttling this question. As it is, however, he leaves the mnt·
b.•r just where ·he found it; for,.,with all ret~pect for the
opinions of others, I must he allowed to expregs my own,
· that the bore assertion of any man is not the sort of c\·i-
'len~e,from which to draw n philosophical conclusion.
" To the everlusting honour of Edinburgh," to use Dr.
Elliotson'at wor,Js, " not only wns the first l,hrcnologi-
enl Society estubliMhed there, but the first Phrenological
Journal.'' 1'herc is also a journnl published at Pnris, and
another nt Copenhagen. 'fhe prctlent Phrenological So-
ciety of Londop was established, I believe, in 1824, under
the auspices of Dr. Elliotson. 'l'hnt of Pnris, which num-
bers nmong its members some ofthe most celebrnted medical
1pen of Frnnce, wns established in 1831, nnd holds its an-
Jlual meetings on the 2211 of August, the death-day of Gnll.
In 1836 the number of phrenological societies in Great
Britain nlone, wns twenty-nine.
The .HISTORY or PuRBNOLOOY JN ·THE UNITED STATES is
readily told. In 1822, Dr. John Bell republished at Philn·
delphia, with a short preliminary discour~e, Mr. Combo's
Euaye on Phrenology. This appears to have been the first
publication in fa•our of tbe science, issued in the United
13tatee. A few years at\erwardt~, Dr. B. R. Coates of Ph.il·
84)elpbia, published a strong article in reply to Profeaeor.
. · ·'1 ·· • Bparabeim'• Pbreao OIJ, 'Yol. i. 30'7.
o, •izedbyGoogle
PHRENOLOGY IN THE UNITED STATES. 79 .
Wnrren, of Boston, who hnd nttncked phrenology. In
1823, Profes~or Dr. John D. lVells, of Bowdoin College,
Brunswick, stnte of 1\lnine, on ·his return from Europe,
whe-
re be bud henrd phrenology tnugltt, by Gntl himself,
commenced nn annual exposition and recommendation of
its doctrine:., to his clnss, which he continued, I believe,
as long as he remained in the college.
'fhe lamented Godman was an advocntc of phrenology.
In 1820 he spoke of" the renowned, the indefntignble, tho
11ndefeated Gall."• And,in his edition of Bell's Anatomy,
he contrnverts Bell's dicta ngainst the science, and rcmarkta,
" 'fhis is the foundation upon which the doctrines of GnU
llnd Spurzheim rcst,-purely.upon obsermtio~,-nnd this
is the renson why these doctrines have so triumphantly out·
lived all the misrepresentation nnd violence of opposition."t
On the 4th of August, 1832, Dr. Spurzheim landed in
the United States; and commenced lecturing nt Boston, on
the 17th of September, but wns interred, alas! just t"·o
months afterward~. On the 31st of December, 183'2, the
birthday of Spurzheim, the Boston Phrenological Society
wnsestnblislwd, and in three mouths numbered ninety mem·
bers. Severnl similnr societies nre now organized in other
cities of the Unitcd States. In October, 1833, n quarterly
journal, The Annals of Phrenology, wns. commenced in
Boston, and continued two yonrs. In October, 1838, n
monthly periodical, 'l'he American Phrenological Journal
and 1\liscellany, wns commenced at Philadelphia.
But the Americnn,who, above nil others, has distinguish·
ed himself by his zeal nnd luhours in favour of phrenology,
is Dr. Charles Caldwell. On his return from Europe,
where he had heard Dr. Gall, he prepared, and iu 1821-2
delivered a brief cour~e of lectur~s on the science, to his
CltlSs in the medical depnrtll!ent of Trnnsylvanin College.
'.rhis was the firt~t course ever delivered in the United States.
• Godman's Addretsce. Philadelphin, p. 101.
tBeU•a Anatomy New York, 1827, vol. i. p.l65. ·
o, ,,,zedby~oogle
-
'·
80 DR. C.4LDW~LL.
The Doctor hat repented it to his succet~sive clotases, in that
coilege, and the college of Louisville; every winter since
that time. In the sprin~ of 1822, he delivered a ·papular
. course to the citizens of Lexington. In 180...3, he lectured
at Louisville. In 1824, ot Nnshville. In 1825, at Balti-
more· and at Washington, which led to the formation -of a
phrenological society ot each of those plnces. In 1826, be
lectured again ot Washington. ln 1828, at Boston. In
1835, agnin at Nashville. In 1836, at Natchez. In 1837,
at Philadelphia; nnd in 18~, at New-York.
'l'h~ phrenological publicntions of Profcs.sor Caldwell
are very numerouta. He published, in 1824, by invitation ·
of his class, a summnry of his course of lectures. previously
delinred to them. In 1826, in the Edinburgh Phrenolo-
«iC.I Journal, two papers on the Phrenology of the North
American Indians. In 1829, a paper entitled, New Views
of Peuitentia.-y Discipline and Moral Reform. [See Ed.
Phren. Jour.] . In 1831, An Essny on 1'emperamentP. In
. 1832,·An Essuy ou 1\lentnl Derangement. [See Transyl·
vnnin Medical Journnl.] And another entitled, Thoughts
on True Epiel!rism. [See New England 1\lngnzine.] Antl
ali address on · Intemperance, in which he gave the phren-
ol~gy ·of thnt vice. In 1833, three essnys: 1. On 1\loral
Medicine. 2. On the true mode of improving the condi-
tion ot Mun. 3. On the Study of the Greek and Latiu
Languages. In 1834, An Essny on Physical Education,
·and two artidea, entitled, Phrenolo~ry Vindicnted ; one pub-
lished in the Boston Annals, nnd the other in the New Eng-
... hind Mn.gnzine. In 1835, in the Boston Annnlt~, a reply to
Lord Brougham's attack. At Nashville, an Addresll on the
Spirit of Improvement ; and at Lexington, another on the
Phrenology of' Gnmbling. In 1838, a small volume, en·
titled, Phrenology Vindicated .-nd Antiphrenology Unmask·
ed. In 1839, n Letter to the Editor of the American
P-hrenological Journal. lt is especially worthy of remem·
brance, that but few of tho foregoing publication• were
D1
git1
zed by Coogle·
PRJ:11ENT CONDITION OF PHRENOLOGY, 81
printed for sale, the gr~nter part were gratuitously distribu·
tP.d, princip!llly throughout the Vnlley of the l\Iis$issippi.
'rhus numerous, important, nnd unremitting have been
the Inhours of Cn.\nr.F.s C.-\J.DWEJ.r., n name which must ever
he M!;ocintcd with the introduction of Phrenology into the
:"it~W Worltl.
:\fy intention wns to trent somewhat nt large on the pres·
··nt condition of Phrenology, hut I hnve nlrently passed the
limits, nnd must hasten on, contenting myself with .express·
ing the following view; namely, that n vague general im-
.pression exists thnt there ma.v be something in phrenology
nfter nil. And nmoug a great number n belief thnt thera
really is something in it. 'l'hnt a much t~mnller number, ·
hut still " formidable phalanx, believe in it, nnd advocate
its doctrines. And n number compnrntively small, study
it with n~!liduity, ns the science of their affections, nod
hnve n deep nnd nbiding conviction of its vnst importunce. .
Uut in the Universitie:s, Colleges, nnd Seminaries of lenro·
ing, it hus lumlly been nhle to set its foot. And by ·dle
genernlity of professors, ministers, scientific nnd religious
writers, it is proscribed nnd denounced, or nt be~t treated
with distrust nnd lukewarmness. ·
Among the signs of the times however, I woulci mention
une especinlly indicative of the grudunl ndvnncement of
phrenology in popular estimation. The periodical prcs11
wicld:t grent power, for good, or for evil. Pity, tlant it is not
always employed in the cause of truth nnd virtue! There
Rrc noble exceptions, indeed, but it is undcnioblc thnt mnny
editors forget the dignity and responsibility of their offiee,
pander to vile taste11, nnd succmnb to paltry nud bigoted
prejudices. Their duty it is to enlighten public opinion,
but instead, they wntch it with engle eyes, to note it$ indi·
cations of change, thot by quickly following they mny seem
to lend. With this clnss of editors, phrenology wns con·
Aidered for yenrs ns n capitnl joke, the very nnmc seemed
a fountain of gibes nod jeers. 'l'heir phrenology, however,.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
82 PRIUJEN':f CONDITION OF PHRENOLOGY.
wua not ours, but n wio.dmill hero of their own ; a thing of
shred• nnd patches, of mere bones and bumps; a conglome-
ration of deformities, incongruities nnd puerilities, which
. they could set up, and hurl down, ut pleasure., for the edi-
.ficntion and amusement of their wondering renders. These
editors, in general, have now eensed such Don QuixotismP,
ood betaken the~selves to other nmusernent. Nay, many
of them begin to touch their hats to the reul presence, ond
acknowledge that there wns a little mistake in the matter,
or they would not, upon their honour they would not, have
misrepresented so comely and respectable a personage.
This is cheering; not because of nny intrinsic value which·
tbeir opinions post~ess, for the observntions they make ge-
nerally betray:their ignorance of the subject, but because
aueb opinions ore .significant of a favourable stnte of 'the
popular mind. They ore to public feeling, what the ba-
rometer. is to the atmosphere, th.ey show the amount of
pressure from without. · ·
To consider the authority of a mere mathematician on
the Malthusian doctrines, or that of a mere anatomist on the
immortality of.man, as decisive of the truth or fulsehood of
those question!, would be absurd enough. But the testi·
moniala of men of reputed accuracy of observation and
soundness ofjudgment, in favour of doctrines the evidences
of which th(1y stnte themselves carefully to have examined,
and, especinlly, when their decision subjects them to oppro-
brium, ought to have weight enough to secure for such doe·
trine1, a respectful and patient investigation. To furnish
aueh testimonials in great numbers, would be incompatible
with my plnn and limits; yet,I here present a few, in answea
to the namO·\Vor~bippers who are eontinunlly nsking, with
a contemptuous tone, lVho believes in phrenology t These
I tball extract from a volume of" Testimonials in behalf of
George Combe, as a candidate for the chair of Logic in the
UoiYenity .of Edinburgh." In doing which, I shall omit
all tbat relatea to Mr. Combe himself.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
TESTJafONIALS. 83
The .follolDing testimonials, among others, certify, that
Plarenology, viewed as the abstract science of mind, is nl·
perior to any system of Mental Philosoplty which ltas pre-
ceded it:-
From Ridl4rd Wlulltly, D. D. T..ord .ArcAhislwp of Duhlira.
" I am convinced, that even if nil connection of the broin with the
mind were regarded not merely M doubtful, but as n peri'ect chimero,
still the treatises of many phrenological writers \Vould be of great \1llue,
from their employing n metaphysical nomenclature, far more logic'll,ae-
curate, and eo11venient, than Locke, Stewart, and other writers of their
school.
" That the religions and moral objections again!!t the phrenologie:al
theory are utterly futile, I have from the fint been fully convinced.'' p. 6.
From Sir G. s. Mackenzie, Bart. F. R. S. L., &rc.
" During the last twenty years, I ha\·e lent my humble aid in resisting
n torrent of ridicule and -abuse, aud have lived to see the true philoso·
phy of man (phrenology) e~tnblishing itself wherever talent i1 found
capable of estimating its immense value.''-p. 8.
From Dr. Robtrt Mat11ish, ttrllhor of"The PhilosopAy of Sletp,"4-c.
" Tho old system of metnphpics explained nothing sati!!factorily; and
like all persons who attempted to arrh·c nt definite results by its assiat·
anee, since commencing the 11tudy of phrenology, " new light ha.s dawn·
ed upon me, and nrious phenomena which .were before perfectly ine:l•
plicable 1tpon any known theory, arc now of easy solution."-p. 15.
~'rom Dr. JVm. Gregory, F. Jl. S. E., formtrly Pruilltnt of 1M RoJnl
Mtdical &citlf.
" 1 am firmly conTinced of the truth of phrenology, and of its vut
importance, a.s constituting the only 111tisfactory and consistent eystem
or mental philoeopby which the world baa yet seeu."-p; 22.
~1M Horanrabl. D. G. Hall~, M. P.
•• Tbote who han diapuaionotely inTeetipted the eubject '&'" al·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
TUTIMONIALS.
tatotit h, a uaRn, in m~tinlllining, that phrenology rcata upon cvidonco lbat
is imfragnble; aud that the limo ia not fur ofl', when all philoaophy of
mind, which lllanll not reatupon it u a baaie, will bo put uide u very
inco.-aple~."~P· r,o.
l'mn Clttnlu Jlf~Cl~Jme, bq., F...dittw of tAct di1ti,.,..uMd r~«qapn-.
Tile &«111UU1.
" Ena though· I land no faith In organology, I 11hould atill hold
that pbrenQIOIJ poue.ea the following advantages: bt. 'fhat it ex-
laibill a more ICientific and consistent clo.nification of the human fncu'-
tiea thaa any ·other tyttem of philosophy. 2d. That is gives a mort'
lucid and •lilf'actory explanation of those varietie1 of national and in·
· dividu:sl character which we find in the world. 3d. That it baa a mort'
Immediate Uct practical bearing on humrm conduct and the businea or
·JU'e, on moralt, education, and legielatiou."-p. o7•
.rr.. lWerc CAoMrt, bq., 011c of th4 coruludQr• of Claambtrt' Ediu·
6urgla Journal.
"I coftlider the echeme of mind, which reaulte from phrenology, as
DOt oal7 auperior to nny hitherto laid befure tho world, btU the only rea·
10Dabl7 complete account of htnnnn nnturc which we poMeu, nnd the
oal)'.oae Which CaD lefVC Gil G basis for nny1y11tem ofiustruction1."-p. ()6.
· Fnmt IM Hottottrable Judge Cramptolf.
"I am ·periuaded that phrenology i1 amongst the most impor1.4ut of
. . \ .,
.... acquisitu)'Da made to the stock or modern knowledge, nnd tbat
. . "'· . ...... . . .
•poa at must be baaed every soon6 '')'stem of mental plnlosopby."
. .
. .
'
TAefolloUJing testi1nonials certify tlrat plu·enology c:ontaiR•
a true ezposition ofthe physiology oflite brain.
,.,._ Dr•.w.. Weir, Lul•rer 011 llat pmctiu of mtclicifte, nlld OM f/
eM Edilon t1j lite QIMpto lllt4liml JoNn111l.
"Beinr m11elfconvineed, nl\er many year. study oftho subject, ud
aumeroua obaenatiobl, that phrenolon is the tnte philoaophy ofmind,
I baTt taught it, In m7lecturea delinred to medical studenll, u the cor-
no& ph)'lloloQ of the brain. ADd I colllider it impoaible to· ~i~• a
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
TEITIMONIALI.
proper Yiew otdte phy•iology or the bnin, on any other bat prenoJo.
pal principles...-p. 37.
l"ro• Dr. JoAn Ma&intDIA, Lecturer on 1M Principia ofPtllWon, .U
Practiu ofPhym.
·• The more closely I study nature, in health o.nd disease, the more
linn are my convictions of the 10undness ofphrenological doctrine~!'
Frtrm Dr. Jamtl JohnltDa, Physicinn-ntraonlin~~rg to tM Kit~g, Editlw of
tM Mcdi~Chirurgiul RerittD, 6(c. ~-e.
•• I have long been convinced tllut the science or mind can only be
uudoutood nnd taught, properly, by those who have deeply atudied the
•tructure and functions of its material instrumcm, tM 6rai11. I :1m con·
vinced, that in this world, mind can be manifc~ted only through the
mediutn ofmatter."-" Without subscribing to all the details ofphren-
ology, IIM!Iieve ita runda10ental principle• to be bllsed on truth."
TAe follolcing testimonials u.rtify to tile utility of appl!Ji"l
phrenology in discrimi11ating tile "aricties of in1anity•
.Froln Sir JJ'. C. Ell~, .M. D. Physil'ima to til. Lamatic AIJlum of CAl
county of Middlt.su.
"I candidly own, that until I bccamo acquainted with phrcnolou.l
·bad no aulid ba11it~, upon which I could ground nny treatment, for the
cure of the diseue or inso.nity, which bad long bad a peculiar claia
upon my attention."
Frone Dr. Jamu Srott, 1.1. B. S11rgtma cancl Mtclital Swptri•tcttltld (#{
tM Rogal Natal bnatic A•ylum.
" Aa I have been for nearly ten yean the mediclll attendnnt or tbe
l.unatic A11ylnm in this «rent Hospital, my opportuuitie11, at lea11t. of'
ob!!crviitg, hl\vo been &rent indeed; and a dnily iut\ln:onno with tbt
uuf'ortunate individuate ontru•ted to nty care and management, boa
finuly, beeanse exp~rimentally, convinced me that mentul disorder, aDd
moral delinquency, can be rationally combated only bv 1he applicauon
of pbrenolou."
8
o, •izedbyGoogle
'l'BSTIIIONIALB•
.·Tlt.efollOtDing testimonials prooe t.lte bearing of pltreJaology
·on tlte eltUsificatioA and treatment off.riminals~
In April1836, Mr. <;ombe "Yilited Glasgow jail,and examined phren-
ologically aome of the criminaL!. G. Salmond, Eaq., Procnrator-fiacal
of Lanar""'ire, drew up Ill account of the atrikin1 accuracy of llr.
Combe'• cli11nosia, which ia ~rtified to, by W . Moir, Eaq., Sheri!):
:mbstitute of Lanarkihire, a.nd Mr. D. M' Co11, Go"Yemor of Glu1ow
jail. Mr..Salmond remarka, in conclusion:-
,. The accancy of your concloaiona hu deeply impreued me with
tho benefit wh'. ·. would accrue to aociety from the application of 11uch
inYetltilatioDI towarda the hotter cla~~~ification of criminals before and
after trial, to the eelection and treatment ofconYic:Js, and even to the
...,. certain identification or. ancb criminala u might effect their eacape
from juatice or confinement."
,..,.,_ Dt. E. Octo, Profeuur oJM.tztt:riiJ Medica arul Fom&lic: Modcitw
ill de U•iNnilf of Copen/tagert, Edilor of IAe Darrilla JouniiJl, " .ii-
lliotlil/or Liqn," Ire. ltc.
"I conaider it quite po~nCible to distin1uiah men of rtron1 animAl pro-
penaitiea, who, when loA uncontrolled by nnthnrity, or wben excited by
illtmtication, would be dnngerous to aoeiety, from anen of mild diapo-
lilibu, by examining their heads during life. I havo practically applied
... method of d&.tinguillhing the natural diapositiona of men, and found
• It uif'ormJy IUc:eellful."
7'Ae folltnlting testimonials apply to tAe utility of pltrert·
ology in ill application to the purposes ofeducation:
.
,.,._ ,..,__,., J. D. Donq, E•'l·• Mater of IAe ErtglisA ckpGrtnttwt
aw 1M Higl& Sdaool ofGltUfOtD.
"It II DfY decided opinion, that be who teaches and lr4in• upon
pbreoolop:&l principlea, will experience a conatantly increuiug attadl·
..Dt to hia prof
..ioo, wiD invariably aecure the affectionate esteem of
W. pupila, ud will, u a neceaary consequence, 1uccced in giving them
a thorough aDVCA710if, moral, intellectual and physical. I write thie
DOt in a theorilia1 apirit, bat from M't'eral yean' extenaive experience.
"Ia Hiato11, the ue of phrenolot 1 ia truly nluable. In Sact, tiD I
(
TESTIMONIALS. &1
k~tcw 10methin~ ofthis beautiful system of mental philosophy, I ae\er."
taught history properly, or, I may add, any thing elle."-p. 35
Fnma W. Hwtter, bq., .d.. M., lat1 ProfW~~r tJj'LQp, 4-c-, ill tAa .d.wlcr-
IOftiaa UniDtTrity, GllugN.
" I am convinced that phrenology is the true ~eience of the mind.
Every other 11ystem is defective in enumeratin~, c:lsssifyiog, and trac:iDc
the relations of tho faculties.
1' I consider this science indi1pe11sably necessary in teaching any
hmncb of education properly. And it ill signally eft'ecti\'e in excitin~
:md directing the faculties of the mind without having recourse to cor-
poral punishment, or even a pee\·i.dt or resentful expreMion."-p. 51.
l'rom ume of tile most distinguishtd of tile Parmall pllysiciaru, indwli~~g
llrouuau, Fauali, Bouillaud, SansoN, Cloqua, VimoNt, and Voiuia. · ·
" Phrenology being in their opinion the most certain o.nd coUlpletc
~eience Of the faculties of Ull\n, thcy consider that ll good system of
Logir. rannot be more firmly based tbo.u upon tbe profound atud7 ofthat
~icnce."
U1e of Phrtnology to Arti1t1.
From Gtorge Rennie, Esq., Sctdptor.
•• A. an artist, I ho.vo at nil \imca found phrenolo~y ad\·tmta,co\ll iu
thll pructico of my art, and thnt expre111ion in almost every cn.q coin-
<'Micd exactly wi~' what was indicated by the cercbrnl de,·elopmeut.''
Ifsome one, who hns been nccustomcd to scoff nt phren-
l>logy, should hnve nccompnnied me hitherto, I would rcto·
pcctfully, but cnndidly, sny to him, nt pnrting: If phreno-
logy be true, then, by continuing to oppose it, you will
merely injure nnd dishonour yoursrlf: You mny lnugb, but
lnughter is not wit; you moy scoff, but scoffing is not nrgu~
ment ·; you mny shut your eyes, but it will not, therefore, bf.
dark ; you mny rnise clouds of dust, but you will merely
obstruct your own vision, not extinguish the radinnce of
truth. Be cnndid nnd generous therefore, nnd tillyou have
Digitized by Google
CONCLUSION.
examinedthe subject in on ndeqnote manner, ncl(nowledge,
that on what you hove not properly investigated, you have
DO right to decide.
Witb the phrenologist, I would pnrt in congratulation
for whnt hna been achieved, and in bright anticipations of
future advimccment. Not that very rapid progress need bo
hoped for. 'fbe students of tho old philosophy, cannot bo
expected, in any greut numbers, to nbnndon their painfully
acquired notions, nnd go ngnin to school. 'fhe nged nre
naturally conse"ntive, and cling to old'opinions and insti~
tutioos, with amiable tenacity. Truth, however, is o. reve-
lation from the divinity of Nuture, n·nd never returns void
of effect; But the truths of phrenology have to work their
wny through such mountainous obstncles; they bn,·e eo
mnny erroneous things to rectify, and so many nlloyed
things to. purify, thnt the expectation of rapid ndmnccmeut
would indicnt~ nn imperfect knowledge of the true nature
of our science. Resides, ns n distinguistu~!l t>hrcnclogist
recently temnrke(lto me, u phrenology, in it.s highc~t sense,
il the philnsophy of ~ rnce, endowed with great cerebral
capacity in the. moral and intellectual regions." For ages
will its truth be almost universally acknowledged, before it
. ia fully comprehended and appreciated by the generality
of the hunum filmily. In the menu time, each mun will
understand it, too great extent, according to his peculiar or-
pnization.
I close this sketch, by putting on record my entire con·
viction, that when phrenology shall be generally accredited;
it will be constdered m• the mo~t interesting nnd Purprising
nent in the history or humnn civilization, that the truth of
ita fundamental (nets, should have been so long and so
ltoutly denied. To appreciate the discoveries ofGnlilto, tho
aee or the telescope was necessary ; to repent the expcri·
menta oCHarvey, much labour was requisite; to fully com·
prebend those of Newton, profound mathematical know·
leclp wu oftea essential ; but to recognize the facta on
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CONCLUSION. 89
which the phrenological doctrines are bnsed, needs no uicely
adjusted opticnJ apparatus, they nre obvious to the nnked
eye; no lnboriou:5 and intricate experiments, they prestnt
thet"QseJves in the hend of every ·human being ; no pro-
.found nntl peculiar acquirements, but merely the power
of diRtingu.ishing difFerences in tho disposition!' and tulent~
of men, uatd diifl!rences in the fimn and size of the human
cranium nnd of its various regions.
Non:.-Sincc nlll!nt the la.<~t two or thr.'e pages were etereotyped, :.
friend wbo~e judgment I highly e~;teem, hnssn~gellt.'«l that my remntb
on page 71, coumennnce the opinion that we are to found our belief.
on Spurzheim's observations, initentl of going to nature and obscniu~.=
for ourselve~~o If- such be the impression the words eom·ey, I co1:f.:a;,o
thnt I have not been llttccc~ful in expres..,ing my own meaning: tbt I
·have been misuud('l'lltood i,; at any rate, sufficient rell!l(lll for nttemptin(
to be more explicit. I beg lenvc to 11tate, therefi•re, that I do not objcct
to Spurzheim'11 11npprc!l~iori of ca!IC!' becan~ we nrc callt!d tlJlOU to btt<
lieve on hi~ evidence; but, 1. Decause he stated that to give the hi~tory
Clf the disco\·ery of each org:m, would form :1 part of tho pl:\n which hi'
should nlwnys follow. 2. Hcc:m!'C n pror~d discoverer 11hould ~how
Ihat be himself hns obsencd. before he rcquir.:• others to do so, nnd this.
it appears to me, ia bcl't done, hy narr.tting tho must striking cns('s which
have come under his cognizance. 8uppo!te Gall h:~tl merely IISSerted th;u
the amative propcn~ity is proportionate to the cerebellum, who doe,.
not feel how uns.'\tisfaetory would ha\·c been stteh a n\ode of publi~hing
hi.JdiJCovery; nnd who doe:~ not feel ns he rend:~ the eases of that distin·
~isbed mnn, the duty of rcpe:•ting his observntions become more and
more imperative. 3. Beenusc, though the rettnlt h:\S proved that Spur&·
heim had made the di~co\·eries he claimed, were hi,o mode of announeia,
them ~netioned 0!1 philoiophic, the precedent wonld lead the un~crupu­
luns to publi!'h mere conjectures as di:.:eoveries, leaving the veri6eatio1a
f)rdisproofto ether~~. 4. Beenusc by omitting to record cases.the gronncJ.
on which we rest our belief are ever in a st.1te oftradition. The EdiD·
Lurgh phrenologists have obvinted the difficulty in regard to the organa
dilc:overed by· Spnrzheirn, end thus wo now p'lssess coscs and C3Sts iD
verification and illnstratiou. To furnia:h theee however wu, I humbly
IUbmit, the duty of the di~~eoverer hinuelr. 5. Because, though penooal
obae"nti(ln should alwaytt be resented tn, u furnishing the most ac»-
factory evidence, the testimony or credible witneuea ia a valuable col
lateral gronDd-work of belief: Much more. to the pnrpote, might 1M.
Aid, but theM oblerva&iou willauffice, 1hope, to obviate ambipit7.
s•
o, •izedbyGoogle
'.
··:
': •. ,' I
o'l''zedbyGoogle
LECTURES ON
PHRENOLOGY AND ITS APPLICATIONS.
BY OEOilGE COMBE, ESQ
LECTURE I.
'VnEN a young mnn, I paid much nttcntion to the pre·
niling theories of mental philosophy, frequently meeting a
number of friends for the purpose of tli~cussing the opinions
of .various metnphy!!ical authors, hoping to obtain some
practical views of humnn nature which would be senicen-
blc in my intercourse with society, nnd in the pur::uit of
my professional nvocntions. Dut nil my study pro\·ed fruit·
less of beneficial results, and I ceased to stucly the works
of the metaphysicians. Hoping to obtain some more sntis-
fllctory notions of the mental functions from the physiolo-
gists, I attended the lectures of Dr. Barclay. All parts of
the body were beautifully described, nnd their uses clearly ·
explained,·till he came to the brain; then \vas all dark and
confused. He took grent pains in di~secting that moat im·
portant org11n, but by n wrong method; he cut it up into
slices like a ham, confessing his ignorance of its functions
and intimate structure. The physiologista satisfied me no
better thnn the metaphysicians.
From the 49th Nu. of the Edinburgh Review I received
DlJfint information conceming the doctrines ofPhrenologr.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
,.
9'J UCitrTION OP IMPORTANT DISCOVERIES.
Led away by the boldness of that piece of criticism, I rc.
gardedits doctrines os absurd, and its founders as cbarla
tans. For twelve n1onths ensuing I paid no attention to
·the subject ; indeed, such was the unti\vouruble impre&Jsiou ·
made on my mind by the Review, thnt when Dr. Spur~·
heim came to Edinburgh, I neglected to nttend his first
course Of lectures, nnd should probnbly uot ha\·e ntteuded
him at oil, but for n fortunate circumstance. Coming out
of the supreme court one day, my friend 1\lr. Brownlee in·
vited me to attend a dissection of n bruin, to be performed
in his house by Dr. Spnrzheim. I nvniled myself of this
opportuttity of comparing the method of Gull and SpurL· .
beim, wilb that which 1 hnd seen practised by Dr. Dnrclay.
Dr~ Spurzbeim did not slice, but began at the medulla ob.
longata, and gradunlly unfolded the brnin by following it&J
atructure. · In ten minutes be completely refuted the re·
riewer's assertions, on.d finally demonstrated his own ona·
tomical views.
I immediately commenced to attend the second course
of lectures of I)r. Spurzheim ; ond, independently of his
physiological views, I found the explanation he gave of
mental manirestations to be grently superior to any with •
which I was acquainted. This \VRs a great point gained,
and I determined to pursue the study by nn nppeol to nature.
Accordingly I purchnsed books, and sent to London for a
Iorge qunnti~y of cnsts. They nrrivcd in three huge punch·
eons; ond when tnken out, they covered nearly the whole
floor of my drawing room. But when I so\v them there,
teemingly all alike, my heart 11nnk within me, and I would
glndlr hnve buried them in the ground to get rid or
them. However, my friends henrd of my collection, and I
eoon hnd t\ great mony to visit me-some to exnmine, and
10me to quiz. When I began seriously to exnmine them,
I eoon found that heads apparently alike we.re in· retdiCy
'fer, diuimilar~ This encouraged me. I pui'IUed mrex·
aminationa, both of casta and of the benda of•liYing p&datllll,
RECEPTION OF IMPORTANT DISCOVERIES. 93
and gradually became firmly convinced of the truth of the
new science. 'l'he meetings at my house, to hear my ex-
planations, became more nnd more numerous, nnd in 1822
I wns prevuiled on to give public lecture:J. ·Thus, without
the slightest intention on my part, I became a lecturer on
phrenology about five yenrs after first attending to the sub-
ject.
Of this narrative I wish to rnnlte two applications. 1. 1
desire. to show you thut, in taking up the phrenological
doctrines, I wns nut led nwny hy enthusiasm. 2. I wish to
imprc~s on your mind$, thnt it is not by attending n course
oflcctures thntyou cnn become fully acquainted with plnc-
nology. I deem i_
t impossible to make you so acquaint·
ed in a hundn·d lecture~. I come here, not to wage war
upon your opinions, but to im-itc your nttcntiou to an im-
portant subject; not to convince you of the truth of nil the
details of phrenology, but to show you how to study und
observe fur yourselves. I admire not the mental character
of those who hnve too grent fitcility of belief; nnd Phreno-
logy nsks nothing but fair piny,and candid, ~crutiniziug in- .
vcstigntion.
PnnENOLoov menns the philosophy ofthe humnn mind, as
manifested through the meJimn of the brain. 'J'his philo·
aophy, as you know, has heen opposed with grcnt violence;
and the opposition hma not yet censell. In being so oppos-
ed, however, it merely t:hnres the fnte of nil new trmh:;.
"In every society," says Professor Plllyfnir, "there nru
aomc who think themselves interested to mnintnin things
in the con,Jition wherein they hm·e found them. *1f • Even
in matters purely intellectual, nnd in which the abstract
truths of arithmetic nnd geometry seem nlone concerned,
the prejudices, the selfishness, nnd the ,·anity of those who
pursue them, not unfreqnently combine to resist improve·
ment, und often engnge no inconsillernhlc dl•:;rco of tnlent
in drawing bnck instead of pushing furwnrll the machine
of science. Tbe introduction oC methods entirely new
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
94 R&CEPTI.ON Ot' IMPORTANT DISCOVERI£8.
must often change the relative plucc of men engnged in
ecientific pursuits, ond mu~tt oblige numy, ot\er descending
from the stntiona they formerly occupied, to tnko n lower
position in the scnle of iutelleclliul improvement. 'fho eo·
mity of such men, if they be not nnimutcd by a t~pirit of
reul candour and the love of-truth, is likely to be directed
against method11 by which· their vuuity is mortified, nnd
their importt\nce le1111ened." Dissertation, pnl't 11. p. 27.
It is well known thnt Harvey wns treated with great con-
tumely, and lost much of his practice, on account of his mo-
mentous dit~covery of the circulntion of the blood.• Pro-
feasor Plnyfhir, spe~akh•g of Newton'l4 di~covery of the com·
I)()Bition of light, snys : " 'l'hough the discovery hnd every
thing to recommca\d it which con uriso from whnt is grcnt,
uow nnd ainguln.r ; though it wns not n theory or sya~tcm
uf OJtininnP, but tho gent!ruliz•atiun of filets m•ulo known by
uxperiments; nnd though it wns brought forwnrd in n mosf.
simple and unpretending form, n host of enemies nppeor·
ed, each ~uger to obtuin the unfortunate preeminence of
being tho first to nttack conclusiona which tho ununimouJ
voice of posterity was to confirm."t
But tho most striking instance, perhaps, of reckless nod
unprincipled opposition to newly discovered facts, was the
opposition mode to Gnlileo's discovery of the satellites of
Jupiter. 'fbis discovery wns made simply from Gnlileo's
haYing inYented ·n telescope, by which bodies invisible to
· the naked eye were brought i.nto view. One who violently
opposed him ·he invited to look through the telescope, and
see for himself. "No," snicl his ndversnry; " should I
look through the telescope, I might pcrhnps see them ; nn,l
then I could no longer _
deny their cAistence." 'l'his well
• Loftl&l\er the labouf'IJ of Ilrtr\·cy, when l\1. Dodart defended, at
Paris, a theai.t on tho circulation of the blood, the old docton decided,
",_, 1M roug cn11diduu tne~Wfed IW •ubjct:l _., well, t#U~ 1M
~ofde ,.rat~~n;
t••pplelbillt to the Enc,clopedia Britannic., part ii. p. fiG.
Digitized by Google
Til& BRAIN THE ORO.\N OF MIND. 95
illustrates tbe course pursued by tho opponents of phreno-
logy. 'l'he truths of our science nrc sufficiently obvious;
but many fiercely vitupcrntc, yet refuse to lool\ through tbe
telescope.
Formerly phrenology wns grently opposed hy the l'!li·
gious portion of the community. In this country I hnve
not witnessed much of this. \rhcrevc~: tho rcligioutt IDOil
places himself in oppo:;ition to naturnl truth, it is deeply to
be regretted. All truth is from the same eternnl source,
whether it be the truth of Philosophy or the truth of Reve-
lation. It is impos:;ible to destroy n fnct-it remains for
ever; mad in oppo:;ing:it, religious men will nhnays oo
ultimately found in tho wrong. 'l'hut it~, in God'lJ mmut
they will be timnd to hnv(l oppot~t•d God's truth, and to bnve
•et vnrinnce bt•twc•cn Ilill woa·tl cuul worl~s.
I recollect thnt, in my youth, 1 wn:t tnught to fl'Jll'nt the
catechism of Dr. \Vntts,in which is thi$ question-" flow
do you know you hnve a soul l"-which is thus nnsworecl
-" llccaut~c thoro is somcthin~ in me tlmt thinks mad feels,:
which the body cnnnot do." 'l'his nnswcr is fomuled on•
an illut~ion. It may sati:;fy a child, but it is pnlpnbly err()o-
ueous in the eyes of tho physiologist. It rest:~ simply on the
circumstance thnt we arc not comcious of the operations o(
the brain ; yet numerous facts with which we become ne·
qunintecl by menns of observation prove thnt,without itt
agency,we can neither think nor feel-thut it is in short
the orgnn of mind. In support of this proposition I may
remnrk,
I. IC the brnin.be not the organ of mind, its uses nre un·
known.
2. It is better protected nnd better supplied with blood
thnn any other pnrt of the body.
· 3. The nerves of the senses nre a11 connected with the
brain : it is the recipient or nil their transmit~siontl.
4. The nerves of motion nnd the nerves of sensation o.re
nll connected, through the medium of the spinal marrow,
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
96 TUB BRAIN TBB ORGAN OP MIND.
·with the hrnin: it is the fountain of impulse and the reaer·
Yoir of aensotion.
5. Ccrtnin subt~tRnees, ns opium or ardent spirits, disturb
mentnl mnnifet~tntiong by opernting on tho bri\in.
6. Yninting is n tempornry lostc of consciousness, occa·
eioned by reccsaion of blo9d from tho brain. ·
But we hnvc still. more d.irect evidence. Richerand at·
tended a woman whose brnin hnd been lnid bore. One
day he pressed upon it n little more forcibly thnn usual,
and the pRtient bccom~ siltmt nnd unconscious in the midst
of a aentencc. ·On removing his bnnd, consciousness im·
mediately returned. As no pnin wns felt, he rctlented the
experime~lt several timet~, nnd nlwnys with tho snmc result.•
Similor ca\ses cue relnted by mony other writer~. Sir Ast·
Icy Cooper .relntes one, of n senmnn who hud his skull
fmctured ond brnin compressed by n full. For thirteen
months he remnined totnlly unconscious. On l\lr. Cline
raieing the skull, con~Jciousness immediately returned. 'fhe
last thing the mnu recollected wns n sen fight in tho l\lc.~di·
terronenn, thirteen monthll bcforc,t in which ho hnd receiv·
ed tho injury. . .
But it moy be asked how pressure on one pnrt snt~pends
all mental mnnifcstntions, if, os phrenologists tany, the
brain consists of numerous organs t Let it be recollected
th~t the brnin ill composed of a pulpy moss, hoving nume·
rous blood vessels ramifying in its substance, and is inclos·
ed.in mem.
brnnous t~acs, the pin mnter nnd the dura mnter.
It may be likened to nn Indio rubber bog filled with fluid.
Now it is a law of hydrostatics, that pres~ure made on one
.part of a ftuid aft'ects all ports alike; consequently, wben
• NOf&WIIa Ekme111 de PAytiologie, 7tla ed. li. 195-6.
t L«<MtUoj Sir .Attlq Coopu on Sur~ery, p. 159. GaU ntentionaa
penon wbo received a wound which penetrated to the corpus callosum,
ucl·wbeueYor p-.. Accumulated, ho lost tho ueo of the eye of the oppo- ·
lita aide ; ·lmd tbia blindnea diappeared the moment the paa wu cJit.
llaupl.•·GNL ii. 66.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
THE BRAIN A CONGERIES 011' ORGANS. 97
pressure is made on one part of tbe brain, all are equally
affected. If the integuments be cut, so as to permit effu-
sion of blood, totnl unconsciousness does not tnke plnee
from n pnrtiul injttry•
. " But," sny objectors," bmv is it thnt the brnin docs not
manifest structural dt~rangcmcut aftt'r Ut'nth, wlwn the in-
tli\·idual hus been ntllictcd with insanity l" 'l'lus qul't~tion
was more confidently nskcd some years ngo tlmn now :
more accurntc investigations have shown thnt, in the grent
majority of cases, such der:mgemcnt is demonstrable ; nnd
if it be not nlwnys the cnse, this is not more rt•mnrknblo
thnn what tnkcs. place in other parts, where there mny ho
derangement or de.struction of function, without the nnnt·
omist being nble to. disco,·cr organic change. 'l'hms some
poisons destroy life, without any structural alteration being
visible in nny part of the body.
Again, to ~how that the mind is indcpt'lllll!nt ofthc bo~ly,
it is said that the mind oflcn fully mnnifc~ts its facultics. to
the lust moment of life, even in ling<.'ring discm:e. 'l'his is
uot true. It is important to distinguish Lt'tween functional
und organic derangement nnd simple weakness. 8upposo
I cut the muscles of my nrm ncross, there would be or~:ornnic
tlcrangemcnt, completely incnpacitntiug me from using my
limb. Suppose I should bandnge my nrm tightly and ltcep
it motionless for six months, nt the end of thnt time I ~hould
be able to moYe it in the usunl manner, Lnt not with the
usual force; the general structure would remain the 11ame,
but the size nnd power would be greatly diminished. So
when the br{\in is but secondarily ntl"ccted, the mode of
mt\nifestntion may remain unchanged to the end of some
fatal mnlady, butthe energy ,..,mbe grcntly )cllscned. Thus,
in diseuse of the hm~s, the brnin merely ~utl"crs, lil'c other
pnrts, sympatheticallyt nnd from bndly oxygenated blood•
..\t the commencement ofthe disease, the mind mny net with
its usual vigour. During tbe second month the patient
thinks but little· on subjects requiring mental energy;
9
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
99 TH& BRAIN A CONGERIES OP ORGANS.
duril)g the third month he (:hooses novels or light rending;
during the fourtlt month he prefers newspnper pnrngrophs,
as requiJing·little continuous nt~cntion; and afterwurds he ·
ceases ~o rend altogether, ond does little more than answer
·eimple que~<otions ; yet, because he answers these questions
correctly, his mentnl manifestations are said to be unim-
pBired. No mistake con be greater.
Ag11in, -
when 11 pnrt is actively exercised, blood rushes to
i_
t with rnpitlity ; ond if the brnin be the orgnn of mind,
there should be to- it a rush of blood during mental nction i
and th.is is found to be the f:1ct, ns mnny writeu testify.
Dr. Pierquin observed a patient in one of the bospitnls of
'1\lontpclier, pnrt of wliose skull had been removed. In
dr.comle11s sleep the bruin lny motionless within the cra-
uinm; when she wnsdisturbedby dreams, it wns ngitnted
and protruded ; in drenms reported by herself to be vivid,
·it was more. protruded, and still more so when she was
awake and engaged in active thought, or sprightly conver-
satinn.
Every act of the wilJ, every flight of the imnginntion,
every glow of· affection, every effort of the understanding,
is, in fact, manifested by mcnns ofthe brain~ And this pro·
position is acknowledged by the greatest anatomists. "We
cannot doubt," snys Dr•.Cullen, "that the operntions of
our intellect always depend upon certain motions tnlting
place in the brain." Dr. Gregory remnrks thnt "although
memory, imaginntion and judgment appear to be so purely
mentnl as to have no connection with the body, yet certnin
dise~eea which obstruct them prove, that n certuin etnte of
the brain ia necessary to their proper exercise, and that the
brain is the primnry orgnn of the internal powers." Blu·
menbach, 1\lngend~, Arnott, nny, even the Edinburgh Re·
riew, in the 94th number, oa well na numerous other au·
thoritie1, give Jik.e testimony.
. It i1 worthy of obaenation, that the general notion o(
the mind'• independence of tbe body is quite modem, the
. ' ; .
o;9,tized by Google
THE BRAIN THE OROAN OP l!oiiND. 99
ofFspringin fact ofphilosophical theories t~prung up, chiefly,
since the days of Locke. Shnkspcnre and the older writers
frequently spenk of the brnin as implying the mental func-
tions ; and, to the present day, the notions of the vulgar arc
more in accordance with nature thnn those of polite schol-
ars of the old school. Thus a stupid person is called n
numbskull, n thick head, or said to be addlc-pnted-bndly
furnished in the upper story: while n talented person is
snid to be strong-hended, long-hended-to have plenty of
brnins ; n mndmnn is said to be wrong in the head-
touched in the noddle.
\Ve find, then, that reason, £.-.ct, the testimony of the
best physiologist!l, nnd vulgar uotion&~, nil testify that th<'
brninis the organ of mind.*'
And whnt doea this proposition im.ply t Clearly that the
state of the brnin must greatly influence the mental m:mi-
fcstations, and thnt the perfection of those manifestations
must d::-pend on the perfection ofthe organ. How import-
nut, then, do~s the study of the brniu become !
I beg to state thnt in Edinburgh my Phrenological course
occupied fifty lectures of one hour each. Your time will
not permit this. I therefore limit my lectures to Eixtcen.
As in sixteen hours, however, I should be unnble to do jua-
tice to the subject, I must beg your attendance on two hours
of each evening. But, inasmuch as two hours' continuou,:
nttention \Vould be fi\tiguing, I shall alwnys pau!le for five
minutes at the end of the first hour. And I hope you will
stand up during that time, nnd disengngc your attention
from the subject. In this way you will be greatly relieved,
and be enabled to bear the two hours' exertion much better,
thnn would at first appear likely.
• The usual termination of incurable mania prove• thl\t its immediate
seat i1 the brain. When it continuet many years, the cerebrnl maa ill
diminished, the cavity of the craninm contracts, and incurable dementiA
is tbe reaulL Gall, vol. ii. p. 123. .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
.'
100 TBB BRAIN A CONGEILU!S 01' OUGANS.
I hope you will attend faithfully to the observntions which
form the introduction to my course. You will, hereafter,
find thot they bnve n most important practical bearing on
the subject of EducntiQn.
'Ve next come to the question-Does the mind in every
eel employ the whole brnin, or nre flcpnrote fncultiea of the .
mind connected with distinct portions of the brnin, ns their
retpective organs t Is tho brnin single or multiplex 1
Tbnt it is multiplex mny be proved by nnumber of con- ·
1iderntions. ·Analogy would lend us to thiiJ conclusion.
Thus, in nil nscertnined instnn~cs, different functions nrc ·
never performed by· the flnmc. orgnn. 'Vo bnve, for in·
atoncc, n distinct orgnn for cnch sense, nnd it nppcnrs to
me clenr thnt to feel puficd up with pritle, nnd to feel grent·
deference for others, nre manifestations of functions ns dis·
tinct as those ofsmell~ng nnd hearing. Some ports nppenr to
. have several functions, but, on nnnlysing them, ench func·
tion is.found to be performed by its peculinr organ: tlms, thf'
tongue moves, feels nnd tnstes; but then it coutnius a nen·c of
motion, a nerve of feeling, nnd a nerve of tnste ; nnd it mny
be deprived .o,f any one of thes~ functions, without the other
two being impnired, Dut the most interesting exnmple of
distinct functions being dependent on distinct organs, is fur·
~isbed by tho t~pinnl mnrrO\v. This is ~omposed of t't\·o
double columna, the nnterior being npproprinteJ to motion,
·the poiiterior to sensation. This, Sir Charles Dell clcnrly
proved in the following manner: he cut an anterior nerve
at ita root in an ass, nnd the parts through which it ramified
lost the power of motion, though feeling remained \mim·
paired. lie cut a posterior nerve in another, and the part!!
through which it rAmified Jottt the power of feeling, but re·
tained, thnt of motion.• Their distinctness is now univer·
• 8ueralyean before Bell's experiments were henrd or, Dr. Spurz·
laeiin pubU.hed the (oUo\ving obse"ntion. " It ha4 been obse"ed, that,
iD.palsy, nluntary motion and .the senee or toueb are both destroyed a1
1be Ame time, but that sometimes the one baa ceased while. the other
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
THE DRAIN THE ORGAN OP l'UND. 101
sally nclmowledged-nnd here I would mal(e an important
obse"ation: it hns been objected to phrenology, thnt to
the organs of the br.ain we cannot assign distinct bounda-
ries; thnt we nrc unnble to tuke n brain and isolate the or-
gans with the di$Secting-lmife, showing precis£'1y where one
ends and another begins. But, mnrk, this objection holds
equally against the distinct functions of the dift'erent part~
of the Ppinnl marrow: that one part is n·ppropriated to
nerves of sensation and another to nerves of motion, no one
doubts ; and yet to point out the precise boundaries of the
distinct nervous columns is absolutely impossible.
Different faculties of"thc mind nppear in succession: tlau~,
nfl'cction _
fi,r the }'nrcnts or nurse appeurs bcfort~ \'cmerntion,
or tlao sense ofjustice ; and the power of pcrcch·in~ colour
and form before the reasoning power. I um told by mother.;,
that children manifest fear when two or three months old.
If the brnin be n single organ, these powers should be simul-
taneously developed ; but this is not so, and the only true
explanation seems to be, that the brain is composed of dif-
ferent organs, which come to tnaturity at different time!.
Dr. Johnson, indeed, remarked that the doctrine of a vnr.ie-
ty of fuculties was nbsurd, 'for,' snid he, 1 the mnn who can
\VnJk cast COil certainly walk west.' llut it mny be remark·
ed, that walking enst and \mlldng west nre but walking-
the cxercif:le of a single function; whereas feeling fenr, and
reasoning, arc quite distinct operations.
Agnin, genius is nhvays partiql, which it ought not to be
remained. From this it hu been inferred, thnt there nre two sorts of
nerves. Anntomy hns not yet demonstrated them, but I believe them to
exist, for tho following reason•. Tho 111me non·ous fibrca do not go to
the muscles and to tho •kin, and each of these pnrta hns a distinct fime•
tion. The nerves which are neceas:uy for voluntary motion cannot
propagate the sense of touch, nor the latter the impreaeiona of ruove-
men~,'' &c. Sur 14 FolW, p. 26, Parle 1818, and before ill bia phyaio<
nom&cal •)'Item, 1815.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
' .
.-1
.,.
~
'·
...
...
P.
\OCl TUB· Bl\AIN 1'UE ORO~ OF MIND.
itthe organs of tho ·mind \Yero single.• I have seen it
maintained, in one of your periodicnls, tbat genius is tbe
result merely of nri·accidental exciting cause. Thqs, New-
ton was made a philosopher by the full of an apple, and
Byr.on becamo a great poet because ho wns lashed by the
reYiewers and coardcmned a11 a poetaster. llut lilte cnuses
nrodu~e like effects, and how happens it that 110 many mil·
}ions, before Newton, hnd seen apples filii without ever
thinking of any thing but picking them up and eating
them 1 And if a lashing.be sufficient to. produce a great
poet, why are not great poets more numerous t Indeed, if
critical abuse had bc~n sufficient, I should by this time
have become a great poet myself.
Dreaming can be rationally explained by phrenology
alone. \Vere the brain a single organ, then would all its
foe~~~~~~ a~~ep or awake together, and, consequently,
~-- d~eaining be impossible. llut this is not so. Cautiousness
nlone is sometimes awnke: th~n ar:e conjured up nll fear·
ful thoughts, nnd the dreams are of' hydrns and chimeras
dire.' On the other hand, a number of the intellectunl
· faculties may be awoke and the sentiments asleep : then we
may have ~ vision of friends long dead, but totnlly free
from that awe or fear· which their presence would inspire
were not the feelings dormont.
Were not the brain a congeries of organs, pnrtinl idiocy
could not occur ; yet, that it does occur we well lmo\V,
llere is the cast ofan idiot whose intellectual faculties were
extremely small, but whose self-esteem was lnrge; and not·
withstanding his utter imbecility, he had a very comforta·
j·ble opinion of his own importance. I knew an idiot on the
: bank.a of the Clyde, who could plny on one or two musical
\ iutrumenta, yet, in other respects, he was so utterly imbe-
' ~~..that he hod to be supported by the pariah•. An idiot
..
• " GeDiu ordinarily commences ill great works, u it were by iD-
IIillt, without beiDaaware of its own talent." Gall. 1. 168
o. •izedbyGoogle
THE BRAL."i THE ORGAN OF lUND. 103
in Liverpool, rinmed Jones, manifests great facility in learn-
ing languages ; show him n passage in the bible, nnd he will
point out nnd rend the parallel passage in 8e\·cn or eight
other languages. But about the n1enniug be has no idea.
·Now if the brain were a single orgnn this would be the same
as if n mnn had the PQWer of wnlking cast, without bal'ing
· the power of walking west.
Indeed, that the brnin must consist of a congeries of or-
guns, is maintained by distinguished· physiologists other·
wise opposed to pltrenology; ns Foderc, and Sir Charles
Bell. Such considerations ns I have stated, have impress·
ed men, in nll ages, with belief in the brain's multiplex char·
acter ; and particular portions of the head have been us-
signed to distinct faculties, from the time of Aristotle. This
· drawing represents n head published nt Venice in 1562, by
Ludovico Dolci. Now what is the ditl"erence between such
an nmingement nnd the system of GnU t Simply this:-
Gall discovered the sent of the various faculties. These
older writers considered modes of activity ns sim1)le facul-
ties, nnd located them according to n fancied propriety.
Here, in the front, they placed commo11 sc11se, because it
seemed the most npproprinte plnce for receh·ing inftlrmn-.
tion from the eyes, nose, nnd taste. FallC!J they placed on
the sides of the bend, because it has such great facility in
ftying off in o. tangent. Rejlectioll they placed at the buck
of the bend, because, in reflecting, men throw the mind
back on itself. J.llcrnor!l they placed in the cerebellum, be-
cause they thought it formed a nice little store-house for
the safe and snug keeping of ideas till they were needed.
This, you will observe, wns making mao, not observing
him.
The brain, then, is not o. single organ, bot ench particu·
lar function is manifested by a particular portiou or the
brnio., ·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LECTURE II.
IN the last lecture I stntcd reasons for believing tbnt the
brain is the organ of the mind, and that ench distinct fundn-.
mental facuhy is manifested by a distinct cerebral organ.
We now come to inquire whether the condition of the bmin
exercises any influence on the mnuifcstations of mind.
Docs it matter, in t~hort, whether the brnin be old or young~ ·
healthy or diseased, fino or conne, small or Iorge l
It is certain thnt n young nnd immnture, or au old nud
shrunken brnin cannot manifest its function!! with the vigour
_and continuity of one in the heydny of life. Thus we see
the feebleness of childhood and the imbecility of age.
Usually at sixty or sixty-five the painter's touches become
feeble, and tho poet's fire darkened.* 'l'he influence of
disease we obsc"c in insnnity nnd other affections.
. • "We are told of octogenarians, nonngenari:m11, and centenariam,
with tbcir mental faculties nnimpuired! os well might we be told of•uch
individuals, with the bloom and eln>~ticity of corporeal youthfulness
unimpaired. Men very fnr ndvanced in yenrs onen manifest much
sprightliness, nnd sufficient vigonr,/OT 11 1hon ptriod. But it is fttUUIJ·
rilJ llbort. Exhaustion overtnkcs them, and compel:~lbem to pause, or
lltop entirely, until their 11trength is renovated, when they ngnin proceed.
In the last yean of their li\·es, 1\lr. Jefferson nnd Dr. Priestly furnished
ltriking examples ofthis. At t:tble, and elsewlocre, their mental powers
would exhibit themselves IJri,jly, with the apparent vigour and fre•hnea
ofyouth. Butexhanstion soon came nnd constrnined them to be ailent
-eometimet to alnmber for a few minntes, when they would wake and
join apin in sprightly c:onverantion. When in the vigonr of life, these
two individnnla c:ould hnve mnintnined for many hours the snme degree
of mentaluertion, which, near itsclo~~e, would ha\·eexhauated tbem iD
M1f a Aew. And of every one bowed down with yean the 11&1118 il
tnt." Dr. CalclweU, Anaala of Phren. 1835; p. 409.
,
Digitized by Coogle
SIZE, C£TERIS PARtnUS, TilE MEASURE OF POWER. 105
It is tho opinion of phrenologists that size, other things
being equnl, is the mentturo of power-thnt i:s to sny, age,
beahh, exl•rcise, aml temperament being tho snmc in two in·
di\·iduals, if in one tho mentnl organs he small, uml in tho
other lilrgc, the lnttcr will mtmifcst mind most powerfully.
You h:n·o nil rend the pleasing filhlc of tho ul,t mnn who
showed his sons n bundle of rods, nnd pointed out to them
how readily they might snap them asunder scpnrntcly, ~ut
how difficult it wns to brenk the whole nt once. 'Vhcnce
nrosc thi11 difficulty 1 Clenrly from the added rods or
fibres producing n<lditionnl r~sistnn\!e: so it is with living
parts. A muscle is strong in proportion to the number of
its fibres ; so is n nen·c. llut suppose nn objector to pro-
sent n rod of iron of the snmc thickness ns one of the
\Voodcn twigs, nn<l insist that to brenk thnt sit~gle rod was
ns tlitlicult ns to brenk the whole bundle of twigs before
referred to. 'l'he nnswer is obvious. Ilerc the things
compared differ in kind nnd quality. Tho condition, tbnt
si7.o is n mcnsure of power, other thing• being tqilal, hns
been entirely overlooked. 'l'nlto ten iron rods of like
thickness, and you will find, ns in the former c.nso, thut it
is ten times ns difficult to brenk ten rods us to brenk one.
The bee hns n very minute brain, nnd yet it manifests
great constructiveness. Now it mny bo argued, thnt if
size be n mcQsurc of power, then should the compnrutively
enormous orgnn of constructiveness in mnn, cnusc him to
mnnifcst tho faculty with proportionate energy, which iB
not the cnsc. But this objection is unsound. The struc·
ture of every species ofnnimnl is modified to suit its condi-
tion, nnd you cnn no more compnre a bee with n man, than
a twig with nu iron rod. Com•ct conclusions cnn be ob-
tnined only by compnring nnimnls of tho same species. It
is to be observed, however, thnt tho more nearly any t\vo
species resemble cnch other, the fitter they become for
profitable comparison. Thus, the bends of the ent nnd
tiger, correspond more closely with each other, tho.n those
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
·, 106 IIZZ, ·c&TERI8. PARIDU81 THE &IEASUllB OP POWER.
,of the tiger nnd sheep ; .hence, too, by eompnring mnn with
the higher nnimals, nnnlogy throws on humnn orgnnizntion
a reflected light, \Vhich sl'rv~s ndmirnbly for iJiuatrntion,
though not for proor. Direct observntion on mnn himseiC
is the ·only evidence on which phre11ologists depend, and
·on such evidence alone their science rests.
All nnimntcd nntnre tct:ms with proofs thnt size is n men-
lUre of po\vcr. Lnrge lungs ncrnte blood better thon ~moll
ones, nnd Jnrge muscles nrc more powerful thnn smnll·ones.
Ira·liver·with a surface of ten squnro inche!!, secrl'to four
ounces of bile, it is certnin thnt, other conditions being
equal, n liver with n surfnce twice ns grent would secrete
twice os much. Dones nre lnrge in proportion to ·tht>
~ight they hnve to support : hence their enormous size in
the el~phant ond the mnmmoth, n complete tpecimen of
·which I snw nt Philadelphin-nnd their strength is ahvnys
in proportion to their size, other things being equnl. Dut
1Upposc the nrrnngement ofthc bony mntter to differ, then
mny the snme quontity produce different degrees of
strength. Thus, if you wished to plnce on iron pillar
wt.ighing tea tons in the centre of this room, for the pur·
poso of supporting it, the strength of the pillar would be
much grcnter if you disposed the matter in the cylindrical,
than if you disposed it in the solid form. So when nnturc
wishes to give strength to the bones of birds without in-
creasing weight, the bone is mnde of lnrge dinmcter, but
hollow in the iniddJe. Jt \VOUid not do, therefore, to COlD·
pare equal qunntities of bone, in one cnse compacted
.and in the other nrranged cylindricnlly, ina11mnch ns the
conditions would ·not be equnl. But of two cylindrical
bones, coiltnining mntter in proportion to their size, the
largest would be the most powerful. And.of two compact
bone1, the snme would hold good. ·
'Ve hnn striking confir~ntion of the principle I am
Rdvocnting, in the retntive di11tribution ofthe different kinda
of.neryes. Speaking generally, there nro two clas11es of
SIZE, C&TEIUS PARIBUS, .THE ME.\SURB OF POWER. 107
nerves, those of motion nnd those of sensntion. Now
wherever the power or nwtion predo.minntcs in nn nnimnl,
there nrc tho nerves of motion most munerous; nud where·
ever the power of feeling }lretlominntcs, thero nrc the
nerves of scnsntioo most numerous. 'l'hm1, in the horse,
which is noted for its musculnr power, tho nerves of motion
going to the limbs nrc one thirJ more numerous than thosu
ofsensntion. Whercns; in man, Jistiuguishcd for ncuteness
of feeling, the nerves of sensntion nrc one fifth more munc·
rous thnn those of motion. 'l'hc nen·o of feeling going to
the elephnnt's proboscis, nud rnmified on its tactile extrcm·
ity, exceeds in volume nll the musculnr nerves of tltnt organ
put together. Birds require to rise in the nir, which is a
medium much lighter than their bodies : Nature, there-
f?re, to avoid enlarging their muscles,nnd thus incrcnsing
their weight, has bestowed on them large nerves of motion.
Power is thus secured by applying n strong· stimulu~ to
muscles comparntivcly smnll. In fishes, on the contrnry,
''"bich live in n medium almost equnl in density to their own
bodies, the muscles nrc comparatively lnrgc, nnd the nerves
smn11. Thus docs nuture beautifully ndupt the structure
of the auimnl to its condition.
W0 find this nunptatiou well illustrated by the C!tterna)
senses. Ench of these senses is composed of nn instru·
menton which the impression is mnde, nrul of n nerve to
l!onduct that imprc:1sion to the brnin. Now a huge eye will
evidently collect more rays of light, n large ear more vibrn·
tions of l!ound, and large nostrils more odorous particles,
than the snme· organs if smnll. And the nerves, ramified
iu these orgnns, give intensity of perception proportionate
to their extent. The organ of vision affords n most inter·
csting exnmple of this. A large eye collects n greater nun1·
ber of rnys, nnd, consequently, commnnds a grenter sphere
of vision than n smnll one. The ox is remarkable for the
tize of his eye; (hence the term 'ox-eyed,' nppticd to large-
eyed individunls ;) ho consequently commands a large
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
)()8 IIZEt C..BTERII PARlOUS, THE· MEASURE OP POWER.
range of spnce without turning round ; but,aa his provent
der lies at his fe~t, his sight need not be acute·: uccording-
Jy, \ve find that the optic nerve is not Jnrge in proportion.
The eagle, on the contrary, sonring as it does to nai immense
height, needs not n Jnrge eye to give it range of 'vision, but
it needs intensity of vision, that it moy perceive its prey nt
o grcnt distance. "'e find its eye, therefore, of ~mnll size,
but of great keenness: the optic nerve is enormously lnrge.
It does not, os in m.nn, form a mere lining memhrnnc to
the posterior chamber, but, according to Des 1\Ionlins, is
composed of fhlds hnnging loosely .into the eye, null oug·
mcnting lnrgcly both the nervous flurfnce nnd nervous mass,
giving thut great intensity of vision, which pnrticulurly dis-
tinguishes this hird of prey, and enables it to discover its
ltunrry at immense distnnces.•
The external enr is for the purpo~e of collecting the vi·
brotions of t~ound, and we find the lower anin1nls to hove
Iorge trumpet-ears,which man imitates, when be wonts to
hcor distinctly, by using nn ear-trumpet.
In mnn, the olfactory nerves spread over twenty square
inches ; in the aeol, over one hundred ~nd nventy-ond in
this animal the sense is ·so acute that the hunters hnvc to.
npproncb him in the teeth of the wind. There ore two
dogs, the greyhound and pointer: the first follows the gome
by its eye, nnd the lnst by its smell. The not:e of the fir~t
• Des 1\loulins is incurrect. On a retina so constructed it would be
~- impouiblo for the rays of light 10 to arrange themselves ns to fonu a
perfect image. \Vhat he calls folds of the retina, nre nothing more tb!lll
·the ••a~ursoM, a membranous, puckered, ftUllike budy, which arise11 from
the beck of the eye, passesthrough a division in the retina, aud.is in~~erted
into the vitreo\l~o humour, not far from the foremost or inner edge of the
erystallino len1, out of the way ofdirect ''illion. The mnnupium is thi.D,
YUCular and erectile, and .assists in 80 affecting tho position of the )eDt,
.u to aceo~modnte the eye to variiltionl of distance.
With tlae aid of my ingeniou1 friend Dr. W, C. Wallace, I recently
eumincd the 1tn1cture of the eagle'• eye, and therefore give the aboTI
correction with confidence. The principle illdae tex\ ia not, ofcoune,
......by \bll a'DI1omical error.0
J;9, ized by Coogle
IIZ£1 C..ETERIS P.o\RIUUS1 TilE atEASURII: OP POWER. l{)J
is narrow nnd pointed; thnt of the last broud nnd extend-
ed. The sheep excels man in the ncutene~s of smell, nnd
accordingly, while in it the nerve is thicker than thiR pen-
cil, in mnn its size is not greater than pnck-thrcnd or n
thin whip-cord. The mole is remarkable for the ncutencss·
· of its smell, nnd the nerve is very huge. It is remnrltnhle
for the feebleness of vision-thug, ' ns blind u~ n mole' itt
a common saying. Corresponding with this is the smnllnes!l
of its optic nerve.
l.orfl Jefli·cy, in nn article which he published in thf'
·}';dinlmrgh Review, opposed this doctrine, of size hdng n
measure of power. " 'I'he proposition," he say~;, "is 110 It&:.
.:otllrarylo the analogy ofall.,llr knoron organs, than to gtn~
.:ral probability. Grnndmnmmn 'Volf, in the fuiry talc,
docs, indeed, lean n little to the phrenological heresy, when
11he hos large eye& to see the better. But with this one ven-
erable exception, we rather think thnt it hns never been
held beforE', that the strength of vi~ion deptmds upon the
11ize of the eye, the perfection of hearing on the magnitude
of the enr, or the nicety of taste on the breadth of the tongue
•ind palate."
Nmv it happens that so far ns the wei~ht of nuthority is
concerned, the venerable grnndmamma \Volf hns complete
advantage over Lord Jeft"rey, and fuirly bents him out of the
field-Srommering, Cuvier, 1\lonro, lllumenbach, l\Ingen-
,Jie, (;eorget and a host of others, tal(ing her side iu the
controvcr~y. Blumenbach sny11: " 'Vhile nnimuls of the
nwst ncute smell have the nasal organs most extensively
t'\'nlvt:cl, precisely the same holds in regnrd to some barba-
rous nntions. For instance, in the hend ofn North American •
fudiau the internal no"trils are of nn extraordinary size.
'fhe ncnrc!lt to these in point of magnitude are the intemo.l
liO!Itrils of tlul Ethiopians." l\lonro primus anyzJ: " The
,:(•nsihility of sml'll is increased in proportion to tho surface;
this willnlso be found to take place in all the other senst:a~."
·~uppose that, after these expositiou,l w«;re to.tell· you
10
110 liZ&, C&TERIB P.,RIBUS, THE M&AIURE 01' POWBL
lhnt size hns J)O inftue~ce on power in the humnn brnin-
would yon he disposed to credit tho ns~ertion 1 I thinlt not.
Here is the ·skull of on infimt; here one of nn tulult;...
mnrk the difference in si~e. This is the skull of n Swiss;
this of n Hindoo-sce bow lnrge the one compared with
the other-and whnt anys hitatory of their mnuife:-tntiuns of
· power t While the one people achieved their independence
· ·nt nn enrly dny, nnd hnvc mnintnined it nt times ngnin11t
fearful oddt~, the other hnve ever been the prey of invade.rs,
and one hundred millions of them nre nt this moment ket)t
· in subjection hy· forty or fifty thousand Englishmen. Uefore
studying phrenology this lust fnct wns utterly inexplienble
to me. 1'he Hindoos are considerably advanced in the
arts of civilized life. They hnve written lnngunge, 11ystems
of )ow and religion. And yet, they nrc utterly unable to
contend ngainst n mere hnndtul of Anglo-Snxons. But
now the renson is plnin, the small compnrntive size of
their brain explnins their feebleness. Agnin, here is the
bend of a Peruvian Indian, n filir specimen of the race i
!lee 11ow l'~nll compnred with the European head ; and
. you know tbat a few Spnninrds conquered a nntion of
them.
But ognin, when the brnin is below a certain size, idiot·
ism is the invnrinblc result. In the lowest class of i1liots,
the horizontal circumference of the head, tal(en n little
higher tlum the orbit, vnrics frnm 11 to 13 inches ; in n
CuU-taized hend, the circumference is 22 inches; in Spur·
zbeim's takull it is 2"~. In such idiots the distance from
the root orthe nose, bnckwurds over the top ofthe head to
the occipital spine, is. only 8 or 9 inchell ; iu n full sized·
hentl it is 14; in the slu1ll of Spurzheim it is 13-&. Let
thotae \Yho deny .the inftnence of taize reconcile these foeti
·with their beliet: 'Vc chRJienge them to produce a mon
with n tmall sized hend, who manifests grent general men·
tal pnwer.
•• But,~' 107 some, 11 we know idiots who have large
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
'I·BE DA1' DOES NOT INDICATE TBE BRAIN'S SIZ&. 111
heods." Our reply is-so do we; but, then, in these cases,
the brain is not healthy. A lnrgc leg izJ mmnlly inoicntivt'
of stren~:orth ; but this is not the case when the le~ i;J lange
from dito:euse. Dut though disense be nbst!nt, if the size of '
the brain be very deficient, idiocy is invnritlblc, nntl men
remarknble for grent force of chnrncter, us Bruce, Crmu· ·
well, Dnnnpnrte, Franldin, nnd llurns, illvtuinbly have
bends of uuur;un) mngnitude. .
But here nllow me to snve you from error. 1\lnny, after
henrin~ this statement, imant~diately commence to try on the
batlf of their ucqunintnncc, and ore npt to conclude that the
man with the lnrg_cst hat is th~ most clever. Now, here is u
little hit of u mistake. The hat i:; the me.nsurc only of tht•
bend's circumference in n part of which he need not be so
proud. It docs not measure a great part of the intcllt!ct, and
uonc nt nll ofthe moral seutimeut:-. Hatters, in ~ccming an·
ticipation of moral improvement, hnve left in the upper part
of uur hnts, nmple room fi,r the moral sentiment~ to sprout
auJ .grow. Sir \\'niter Scott's hatter told me, that the hat of
that cclt!hrntedindividual wa:o one ofthe smallest which went
out of his store. But then the perceptive fucuhi~s, which
were large in Scot:, were not reached by the hat. •rhe up-
llCr nud lateral portions of his forehead wt>rc only full. C~m·
ti(lusawss was little more thnn moderntdy, nud cunccntra·
tivenes!' only moc.Jcmtely developed ; noel these orgnn&,
talten collectively, determine the circumference of the hnt.
His forclu~ad and coronal region towered high. His hend,
from tht~ ear to veneration, wns the highest 1 C\'er beheld;
but of these dimensions his hnt ;ral"e no nccount.
That size hasnn important influence on the power ofman·
ifcstntion, is now nc.Jmittcd even by the Edinburgh Re,·ie\v.
ln the 94th number appeared n pnpcr written by Dr. CC\n·
uolly, coutniniug this seutcnce: "The brnin is obsen·ed pro-
gref:tti\'cly to he impl'OVI'd in its ,;tructure, nnd, with refer·
cnce to the'spinl\l mnrrow nnd ut-rvet~, augmented i11 vulunu
' more and more, until we reach the human br.-in, eacli nddi·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
111 EPPECTII OP TEMPERAMENT ON CEREBRAL ACTIVITY.
lion being marked by some addition to, or nmpJicntion of,
the poweri of the animul-until in man we behold it pos-
aeasing some pnrts ofwhich anial.tnla nre destitute, and want·
ing none which du~y possess."
The principle for which we contend being thus establish-
ed, we would rcmnrk that it is sullccptiblc of u most import-
ant npplicntion. It is found, in four cnses out of five, thut &n
insanity the imturc ofthe derangement bear~ direct rclcr<'ncc
to the ·predominant orgnn or organs. Some nrc nffccted with
melancholia; in these the organ of cautiousness will be ·
i· found lnrge. Some timcy themselves the Deity: in thcst•;
.elf-esteem will be found prcdominuut. · Some nrc fudous:
in these destructiveness will be found large. 'rhcsc nre gcnl'·
rally cnses of functional dcrnngemcnt ; nnd by exnmining
the beadat of the insnne, 1 can gcncrnlly determine with ac-
curacy the nature oftheir derangements. llut a amnii orgnn
may become diacased, and sometimes docs so. 1\fost fre·
quently, however, the derangement is structural: thus, I
have •een a amnii orgnn dcrnuged by n ~vieulum d bone
growing into it! nnd by the pres11ure of a fungous deposi-
tion.
• Let us now i:lquire into the circumstances which modify
tlte effects of siz~. The most importnnt of these is the con·
dilution oithe bruin; and the question naturnlly nrises-do
we po•sesa any means ofnscertnining this constitution t \Ye
do, in the observation of what arc called the temperaments,
which are timr in number-the lymphatic, the snnguine, the
bilious, and the nervous -cnch of which is accompanied by
RdifFerent degree ofnctivity in the brnin. The temperaments
nre supposed to depend upon tho condition ofpnrticulur sys· .
tcme ofthe body: the hrnin nnd nerves being predominantly
nctifc II«!Cm to produce the nervous tempernmcnt; the lungs
nod bloorl-vc~scJA being constitutionnlly predomirt.lnt, give
rile to the ennguinc ; the mu$culnr nnd fibrous systems be·
ing predominnut, givo rise to what is cnlled the bilious, but
wbicla should be called the fibrous temperament ; and the
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
o, ~ ~dbyGoogle
-"-'-----..___
_
0 , ,,zedbyGoogle
I!FFEC.TS OP TEMPER.UtgNT ON CBRF.liR.\1, ACTIVITY. 113
prcdomiunncc of the glnnds nnd us:~imiluting orguus gh·t.:
riso to the lymplmtic.
T.hc tcmpcr:uncuts oro indicated by extcrnul si:rns :•.
I. 'I'he lympl1atic i11 indicnted by roundne~s of f~rm, snO-
ness of muscle, f:air hair, pale skin, sleepy eye~, uaul incx-
prc~sivc fuce. In this temperament the bruin, and all otht•r
pnrts ofthe t~ystcm, ore fct•blc in nctiou, slow and languitl.
The 111y~tem seems otw grent monuliactury of fiat, nnd has the
appcnrnncc of nn m•t•r ripe goust!bcrry.
2. 'I'he sn11guillc is indicated by o wdl-dl'finctl fi,rhl ~
mode-rnt.c plumpness, finn flesh, chesmu hnir, blue eye~, an,l
ruddy, fiair complexion. There i~ grcut fcmdness {i,r excrdsr.
nnd intolerance of musculur quiescence. 'l'he bruin lmr-
tnkes of the gcncml nctivity. ·
3. The biliOus is indicated by blnck hnir, durli sldn, mode- ·
rate stoutness, firm flt•sh, nnd hnrsh features. It ~ivcs great
power ofcnclurallct, nr bottom, ns the jncl~cys call if;
4. Tht' ncl'l'llliS is imlicatcc.l by fine thin hnir, smnll mus-
cles, thin Mkin, paleness of countl•nnnce, nud brightnc~s of
P.yc. '.fhis temperament gives great vivncity of mentur uc-
tio·n.t
These temperaments art', however, aeltlom found pure.
\Ve hnve n mixture of the ncrvmHI nml bilious ns iu Lord
Broughnm, giving ~rent activity nnc.l t•ndurnncc. As nn ex-
ample of llrongluun's power of continuous octivity, I may
mention n circumstuncc, which I hnvc heard mentioned
• Sec Plate of the temperomcnt.1.
t One of the great cause!! why tnl'll oftalent frequently . leave Ill'
(ifled posterity, is, thRt they form ~tlti:meell with women oflow tempera~
ment, in who~ inertt>yl'telllll their ,·ivacity is extingnit•hed; and, on the
other bond, the canso why men ofgenius often descend from f11thcn hi
whom no truce ofcthcri;•l qnnlitie" can be di$CO\'cred, i1.1, that tho~ ruen
were the fortunate husbnnds of women of hilth tcmpernment, and fine
cerebntl combinntions, 'vho transmitted these qunlitiea to tkeir of&prioi,
Ed. Phren. Jour. No. 31. ,
Tbe elfec:ts oftemperament pervadc.nll pnrts ofthe body; and heaoe'
I fine Or CO:In!C 1k11Jl or akin, is 1\11 indicntion that the lOXll'l'el or dat
bro.in aud the nervo~ •Y•tew, o.nd ortho IUUICI~. areaimilar.. Ibid. .:: i
D'git;zed by Google
114 EPFECTs or 1'£MPERAHENT oN ca:aF.nn.,L ACTIVITY.
'
.tmong his friends in Edinburgh. Droughnm wns engngt~ll
iu n Court of Law ull dny; he went from the Court to .the
House of Commons nnd remnincd there till two in the anorn.
iug; on going home be wrote nn nrticle fi,r the Edinburgh
Review, by the time of finishing which he went to ·thtl
Court.; from the Court he ngnin procce,)cd to the llousc of
Commons, where he rcmninctl till l'IUillC time in the morning
-nnd it wns not tiJI the morning of the third day that he
ntired to bed. During all this time bis vigour seemed
unnbnted.
· The ne"oua nnd lymphntic temperaments nre not un·
frequentl.y combined : thh. givc£1 nlternntions of grent nctil'i·
ty and indolence. It" wat the combination of Professor
~sJie. · lie would for n dny or two npply himsclt with
· grent vigour, assiduity ond success, to scientific studies; it
would then seem 1\S though the nen·ous· energy were ex·
lli\Ustcd,·ond the nutritive !lystem enme into predominance ;
ho wo,tld sit nnd ent, nnd dose nnd slccp-pnying no ntten·
tion to study for 1\ considerable interval. lie would often
toke n «lny to go about nnd nttend to nny mntler£1 not requi·
ring much mentnl exertion ; ngniu would the nenons sys·
tem come into predominance, ond ngnin,for two or thret
days, would he npply h.imsclf most nssiduously to 10tudy.
Ofthe lymphntic or even nervous lymplultic temperament, I
ban found few infltnnccs in this country. 'fhcy nre more
eomqton, however, in Philndelphin thnn ill this city, but not
nenrly ao common there ns in Europe.
The nervou9 ond t~onguine temperaments both give ac
mity; but the first is more of n mcntnl, and the last more
ola physi8nl character. The nervous is a grove, thought·
f'ul temperament, the annguinc is accompanied with nn ap-
pearance of hilarity ond hope, there is a peculiar lighting
ap of the .countenance, ond tendency to motion. One
.ottbe former temperament would rather write a note thao
walk across the ftoor ; one or the Iotter would ratl1er walk
... leactJa or Broadwa1 than write a note.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
FORI\IBI\ MODES OP JNV£8TIOATION. 115
Shnkspenrc nthnir:lbly contrnsts the lymphntic nnd ner-
vous temperaments in the t~ceue between Cmsnr nnd An-
tony:
Ctuar. 1.-•t me have tneu :tbout me tlmt nreflll-
SluJ;..Ju:,frtl men, und such as ~Cit!l'p o' nights.
Yond' Cn:t,otu:t hatl alcttll nmllaungrr look:
lie thinks too 1nnch-:Jnch men are dangerous.
AJ:ttmy. Fear him nul, C:2ur; he'JS not dangeroWt-
JI~ is a noble Koman, 11nd well ~tivcn.
Ca~ttr. \Vould be were jimtr-btlt I fllnr him not;
Yet if my name were liable to fear,
I do not know the nnn I ahonld avoid
So soon n.t that spare Ca.~Sius.
•
· (t ita to be remembered, then, thnt tl. Jnrge brnin n1ny, in
fact, he Jess nctive than n 11mnller one if its tcmpernmcnt
be inferior. But in judging the relntive power of organs,
tempcrnmcnt need not be con~idercd, ns nil the org~ns of
the snme laend nrc of the snme temperament.
In cases of disense great size mny bl' present, nnd yet the
mnnifcstations of mind may he vf!'ry feeble nnd imperfect.
Tn ihis case, size forms no measure of power nuy more
thnn in the case of n leg nffl'ctcd \\'ith dropsy.
Now, if the brnin be the orgnn of mind, nnd ditTcrent
vnrts ofthc brain manifest diffl'rent fi1cultics, it cannot be in·
different whnt part i.,; most or least developed, for it is obvi·
ous that two brnins ~1uy be composed of precisely the same
qunntity of cerebral matter, nud yet manifelft totally differ·
ent qualities. The form of the hcnd, therefore, is uot Jess
interesting and important to pltrenologi:1ts thnn the size.
Before proceeding further \Tith the con$iderntion of this
·subject however, let us glance nt the menns which buve been
used by those inquirers who hnvc preceded Dr. Gall, tu
nsccrtnin the true philosophy of mind nnd functions of the
brnin.
·By one set ofphilosophers, the lnws of thought hnve been
apouuded •\Vithout nny reference to organization. Such
o, •izedbyGoogle
116
. .
ON VIVIBF.CTION.
w~re Locl(e, llume, Reicl, Stewart, and others. They re.
fleeted on their own con~cioul'llt'&s, nnd they inform us of
the re1mlt of their investi~ntio1it1, whnt they hnvc thought
and whnt tht>y hnve fl.·lt. Conl'cimtsnc!SS dnes nnt · inform
us thnt the mincl mnnift'tols i.tl'c•lf by menns of orgnns nt nil,
and the connection· of t1ae brniu with the mind fc)rms no
part nf their philosophy.
With the hope ofobtaining some informntion concerning
the functions of the brnin, the nnutmnists hnve cut it up io.
every·possil,tle directicm, but no senti111cnt wns ever perceived
ehunhering iti its fihrt>s, nnr hnlf-fc,rmed iclcns !ltnrting from
its foltl1.1. In fitct n dissection never yet dit~closcd the func-
tions of nny pnrt whntever. Formerly it wnl' very prevalent
i'n Frnnr.e to eu.t out pnrts from the hrnins of living nuimals,
in order to oscertuin functinns; n p.rnctice ns absurd as it
was cruel. 1'he experimenters proeeedtd on the llupposi·
tion thnt nothing 'wns knnwn concerning the functions of
the brnin, and yet they expected to nsccrtnin functions, by
obsen·ing·whnt powers were not mnnifc~stecl when vnrious
parts were de~troyed. Suppose a musicnl iu!ltrumcnt
·Were presented to one ofthese operators, nnd thnt his object
was to discover, by eltperimcuts,· whnt sounds it wn:t capa-
ble of produciug, nnd by whnt port of it t:nch sound Wl18
emitted. lmngine him to toke n hummer nnd smnsh, at
randmn;. n number of its springs nnd whee·Is, nud them set
the mnehine n-going. lly liNtcning to the sounds emitted,
bow could he tell what UJf.re roanting, when he did not
knO\v tJ•e whole originally within its compass1 nnd huw
eouiJ he tell by their lllilence, the sounds which the broken
strings were originally cnlculnted to emit. Yet this would
be precisely nnnlogous tt; the procedure of the vivi~tectors.
They are unncquninted with the numLer of the mentnl
powers, nnd they destroy several of them at random, that
they mny find it out; They do not kn11w whnt purtieulur
power is mnnifetted hy nny particular pnrt oftile brain, yet
'they de1troy the part to get it to revenl its function.. .They
o;9,tized by Google
ON DISE.\SE OF CEREBRAL ORGANS. 117
break the fi.tring of a musical in~rumcnt, und then listcu
to hear what sound it will not emit!
We hc.>ar of 1\lngendie, and others, cutting awny certain·
portions of the bruin in variou~ anim~tl~, nnd thnt some nni·
ma)s, went forwards, some backwards, some to the right,
~ome to the left, ~;ome seemed drunk, some stupid. And then
from tlu:se experiments, n number ofso-called important de·
ductions were drawn. But how con deductions, fit to.be de·
pendcd on, be drnwn from the actiotis ofnnimal:J so torturedl
Suppose yon take a beautiful blnel~bird and cut through its
integuments and skull, und tal~e out a portion of its brain,
tlo yon think it would farour you with a songt And be-
cause it did not, would you be correct in calling the excised
portion of brilin the organ of tunc t Suppose you take
another nnimnl, and serve it in Jille manner, do you thin\( it
would he in the humour or condition to tend and nurture
its young l And because itdid not, would it be corr-ect to
~uy that the excised portion was that which mnnife:Jted love
uf ofTsJlriug t Had phrenology been based on such obser-.
vutions, then would it hnve merited all the obloquy which
has been heaped upon it. But because such cruel experi·
mcnts have been performed to overthrow phrenology, tbey
have been Jnuded ns most philosophical !
Agnin, pntlwlngica1 cnses have been brought forward to
illustrate the functions of the brain; und sometimes to op-:
pose phrenology. Now, before you can draw nny conclusioo
concerning the function of a pnrt from a state of disease,
you muiit know the function of the pnrt in hculth. But as
tl1e non-phrenologist is ignorant of the situation of particu·
hlr organ~, he cnnnnt tell, when acertain feeling is deranged,
iu what or~an to lool< for d.i11ense. Nor. when be flees mor-
bid appearances in nn orgnn, what faculty wus probably de·
ranged. To illustrate my meaning, I relate the follo\Yiog
circumstance.
'l\lr. N- • \Vns a mnn highly ret~pected for talent nnd
• &lr. Combe, {or the lllke or authenticity, mentioned the DIUile,
o, •izedbyGoogle
118 ON . DISEASE OP CEREBRAL ORGANS.
character: he was at one time· minister plenipotentiary to
this country, nnd at another to the court of Constnntinoplc.
Be livttd to the nge of ninety-three. Seven yeurs before his
denth bia chnracter commenced to undergo a remarkable
change ; from being o_,e of the mo11t amiable and courteous,
be becnme one of the most viulellt of men. . lie nbus12d hil'
- aged gnrd~ner, spit in his ti•ce, mad threw things •it him. He
also from beiag an odmirnble lingni~tt became unable to use
words. When be died, Dr. Abercrombie nnd 1\lr. Crnig
exnnained the brnin, and l\lr~ ~-. :being connected by mnr·
ringe with n near relative of mine, [ wus invited to attend.
The medicnl gentlemen knew, by means of their intercourse
with 1\fr. N-, thnt he hnd lost the use of words; but they
did not know, which I did, of the clum~e of his temper.
'rbey fhund nn abscess, one inch in length by half nn inch
in brenclth,in the posterior lobe where Combativcnetts is situ·
ated. 'l'hey conceived this ll!llion to be connected with hia
Joss of \vords. I regarded t~tis Ol' connected with his
change of temper, n.nd ex1•cctt•d to find nnuther ~njnry in
., the anterior lo~e. 'Vhcn .l\l.r. Crnig cnme nenr the orgnn
of lnngunge, I be~g•:u of him to dh!t~cct cnrcfully. I wns .
an abscess there before he di~covered it, I tonk the probe,
and puinted it ont to him; he unfi•J.I~d it, and it was in the
line of the fibres of the orgnn of langnn~e. 1\lr. Crnig
publi»hcd nn ncconnt of tlae cnsr., in which he mentioned
the lnrge leeion nnd comlt•ctt.d it with the loss of words ; he
bad .been Urtllcquuinted with the furious cmuluct of 1\lr. N.
I imn.lc.clintcly publi~hed nnothcr report, stating tlat~ conduct
oC the t>ntient in this respect, nud showing cl«>nrly the 1nnn·
ner in whir.h lhc post rnnrt«>m nppeurnnces harmonized with
phreunlo~ticol tloctrincM, I rc!pcnt, thnt n non-phrenologist
it incnpnhlo of reporting pnthologicol cnses of the cerebral
orgnns with success.
which I deem it proper on thifl, nntt like oeCO!Iions, to 1111flp1'811, lett paill
lhonld be liYen to'ha,Jividn:"• in privntf' life with whom the partiN me11o
tio~ w..-.CODDected b7 the Ua of blood Of frieodsbip.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
DJl. GALL'S METHOD oP INVES'fiO.\TION. l ~~
Dr. Roget, nn opponent of phrenology, confe!SC$1 thnt
"the brain is still ns incomprehensible in its functions, ns
it i$ subtle and complex in its anatomy." Dr. Conolly, in
the 94th No. of the Edinburgh Review, well describes the
utter confusion of the auntomist$ nnd physiologists, even in
late years, when trying to unravel the mysteries of the
bruin.
It is plain, then, thnt if Dr. GnU CO\IId honst no superior
method to that of ordinary physiologists and metaphysi·
eiuns, he would have been unnble to solve the question, \Vhat
pnrts of the hrain nod what mental facultie:1 ore connected t
lie was led, however, to ndopt n d.jffercnt nnd superior motle
of inquiry, which will be best explained by relating briefly
the history of his discovery.
Dr. Gnll, from nn early nge, was given to observation
and wntt struck with the fitct, thnt ench individual wns dis·
tinguished for some peculiarity of talent .or dhspo$ition.
Some of his schoolmates were distinguished for the beauty
of their penmanship, some for the elegance, others for the
Atiffa~ess nnd drynes~ of their style of composition. Their
dispositions were equally difl'ercnt; and this diversity up·
peared to detent:linc their partialities nod aversions. Some
manifested n fondness for employments which they wero
.not tnught. Some would spend their leisure in painting,
!lOme in cultivating a gnrden, some in carving, some in noisy
~ames. Ench individual presented a peculiar character,
and Gull ob!fern•d, that an individual who one year l.nd
cli:;playcd selfish or ltnavish dispositions, never become in
the next n good nnd faithful friend.
The most formidable rivals of Gnll, nt school, were such
us lenrncd by heart with great facility, ond these he noticed
land prominent eyes;. they ~nined from him, by their repe·
titions, the places which he had obtained by the merit ofhis
nriginal compositions. Some years afterwards he chnngt:d
his residence, nnd he still found thnt his school·fellowa,
sn gifted, bu.d prominent eyes. He made the same obsena·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
~~ DR. 9ALL98 HBTBOD OP INVESTIGATION.
tion on entuing the- University. Gnll could not belieYe
this connection to be JlUrcly ueC?idcutnl, but suspected tl1at
they atmJd in nn in~portnnt relntion to cnch other. A~r
much reflection he conct'ived, that there might be ex-
ternAl signs fi•r the· othl'r intellect.unl powers, Alltf thereaf-
ter all individunJa rcmnrknlilc for any mental quality
~nme the objects of his attention. Light br(lke in upon
hhn. by nn Almost imperceptible incfuction, nntl by degrees
he conct:ivcd himself to hove fimnd externnl chnrut~tcrilltics,
indicative of n decided disposition for pointing, music, and
the mechanical arts.
In following out the principle which hnd thus presented
itself to his mind, he en~ountered great difficulties. The
prevailing notions of the philosophers and pllysiologistJ
were a continunl l.ltumbling-block, till nbnndoning every
· theory nnd preconceived opinion, he gnve himself up to the
study of nature. lie visited.prisons and schools, wns jn-
troduced into the courts of princes, to colleges nml the senti
.>f justice, nnd visited every individual renuu·l~onblc for any
~Rrticnlnr enclowment~ During my recent vit~it to Vienna,
I WAS infiJrmcd thnt sucla wns the Ardour with which Gall
purgucd hit inquiries, thnt he Cfcnted nlnrm ; people when
dying were nfrnid lest Gall should obtain their skull, nnd
eomc lef't orders in their wills thnt mt!nns should be tuken
to prc,·ent him.
On reflection, GnU wns convinced thnt, withoutnnntomy,
physiology mnsl be imperfect ; and although he hnd nlwoys
eupposed the externnl indications to depend on tlae bruin,
be hod not gone beyond other Anatomists in explaining its
ltrUcture. But observing a woman afflicted with hydro-
ccphnlus, who mAnifested an activo nnd intl•lligcnt mind,
be declared that the etructnre or the brain must difTcr from
WhRt Wftll p:encrAJI1 conceived. From thnt commenced his
uatomical diecovcrie'- GAll did not first dissect tho brnio
and·tlaut pretend to discover tho mcntnl orp:nns, nor did be
.,.. ~op' ·out. tho ·tkull•ccording to bis imnginotion. Oo
o, •izedbyGoogle
DB. "GALL'S METHOD OP INVESTJGA'I'IOH. 121
·the contrary, he first obs_erved a concomitance between
particular talents and dispositions, and pnrticulnr forms of
the head; he next nscertilined, by the removal ~f the skull
. . t
that the size and figure of the brain are indicated by ex-
ternal appenrnnces; nnd it \Vas only after these facts were
ascertained, thnt the brain was minutely dissected and light
thrown upon its ·structure.
Dr. Gall, for tho first time, delivered lectures on his sys-.
tem in 1700, nt Viennn; in 1801), Dr. Spurzl•eim bccnmc
ll student of his, nnd in 1804, his nssocinte.
· When I was in Germnny, I saw n collection of books
describing the science at different stages of its progress,
and also skulls marked at different- times; nll proving that
the organs were discovered in succession. Indeed, I found
io this country o. most unexpected corroboration of the fact.
Mr. Nicholas Biddle, when a young man, nnd on a visit to
Europe, in 1806, attended n course of Dr. Gall's lectures,
and was so much interested that he requested Dr. Spun-
beim to mark out the plnces of. the organs on the skutJ,
\rbich the Dr. did. 'Vhen in Philndclphia, 1\lr. Biddle
presented me with the 11kull so mnrl\cd, saying, that I could
make R better use of it thnn he. 1'his is it, nnd you perceive
that there nrc a number of unoccupied plnces. you per-
ceive thnt Hope, Conscie-ntiousness, Individunlity, Concen-
trativeness, 1'imc, Size and Weight, arc not marked upon
it, they, at that time, being unnsccrtnincd.
So far indeed was G.nll from ndvocnting a hypotheE~it~,
thnt in the disjointed items of information which he first
presented to the public, there nppcnrs n want of ordinary
regnrd for systcmntic arrnngemcnt. A enndid nnd un-
coloured stntemcnt of fnets wns nil he seemed desirous of
furnishing, lcnving their vnluo to be nsccrtnincd by time
1 1\1\d fnrthor invcatigntion. Dut gradunJly n system of men·
tal pbil01ophy cmnnntcd1 almost •pontnneoualy, from the
10011\iog clULOio
11
Dig' ized by GoogIe
lit TRB FORMATION' OF TRB BRAIN.
erroneous. You need therefore to exercise a rigid scrutiny
in Conning your opinion, but from such scrutiny few indeed
are ·able to veil their true dispositions; and if ther.e be per-
IODS who do pot~setts this power of dissimulation, it forms
·the predominant feJlture in their mental constitution ; ond,
as will afterwnrd be shown, is indicated by n particular
form of organization•
. I venture to conclude, then, that the first point is estab-
lished in fnvour of phrenology. Let us now inquire whether
it be possible to discover the true form of the brain by ob-
serving the form of the head. But first nllow me to. mukc
a few remarks on the formntion and t~tructure of the brnin.
In fortniug nnimnls, Nature seems to hove proceeded
with ns much uniformity ns in forming the solar system.
We ~nd nnimnls continually increasing in intelligence, nnd
os we proceed up the scale, 'the brnin,' to usc the words
of Dr. Conolly, in the Edinburgh Review, 'is obscrvctl pro- ·
· gressivt>ly improved in its structure, nnd, with reference to
the spinul mnrrow and nerves, nugmeuted in volume more
and more, until we reach the humnn brain.' And it is a
remnrkoble fuct, that man seems to pass through every gm-
dntion ofrmimnl existence. llis heart is at first a. mere pul-
sating vessel, like thnt of nn insect ; then a. sack like that
of a fish ; then two sacks like that of nn amphibious ani-
mol ; then a regular double heart. So the human brnin at
one period presents appenrnnccs analogous to the brnin iu
fishes ; then to that of birds; then to that of the mnmmnlin ;
nod finally becomes, by the ndtlition of new portions, a
proper human brain, and is such at birth ; nnd according to
Sremmering, has no convolutions till the sixth or seventh
month of gestation, being in this respect JiJ,e the brnin of
mnture fishes ond birds in which convolutions nrc never
found. Convolutions then begin to appear and gradually
enlfll'ge to adult age.
Atheists have taken advantage of these facts to maintain
that man is merely an hnproved edition of an animal.
Digitized by Google
STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN. 125
Now this is not correct; for besides hnving nil that the ani-
mal possesses, he has parts which it does not possess: he ilf
endowed with moral sentiments and reflective faculties ;
and it would be just as correct to say, thnt a locomotive
steam-carriage is nn improved edition ofa wheelbarrow, be-
cause both hnve two sides, a bottom and a top.
The brain comes to mnturity at different ages in different
persons-seldom before the age of twenty, and sometimes,
according to GnU, not before forty. 1\ly own observations
prove, that it generally continue~ spontnneously to gro-;v to
twenty-three ycnrs of ngc, and sometimes to twenty-eight.
A good-sized, mnture brain in man weighs 3 lbs. 8 oz. ;
in ~vomen 3 lbs. 4 oz. 'fhe brain of distinguished men is
often very heavy: Cuvicr's weighed 3 lbs. 10 oz. 4! dr.
The brain is a mass of soft matter, incapable of feeling
pnin· on being injured. Jt consists of two hemispheres or
halves, which nre scpnrntcll from cnch other by a mem-
bmne called the falciform or scythe-shaped process; eacli
hemisphere is divided into three lobes, thP. anterior, middle
and posterior. 1'his lnst division is to some extent arti-
ficial; fhr though the divisions pnrtinlly exist, as you per-
ceiveon looking at the base of this cast, on the superior
surface you see no such divisions. Then there is the cere·
bellum or little brain, situated beneath the.posterior part of
the cereb:-um or true brain, nnd separated frotn it by a
membrane called the tentorium. 'fhere nre in fact two
brains, just as there are two eyes or two enrs, ench hemi·
sphere being capable of independent action, but united to
its fellow at the bottom ofthe mecliul cleft by a commissure
or connecting part. On the surface of the brnin, us you
perceive, there are waving lines: these ore the convolutions.
They vary from half an inch to an inch in depth. I have
snid that in the lowest animals convolutions do not exist.
\Ve do not find them in fishes, nor in birds, nor in the
lowest of the quadrupeds, such fttl the rat and mout~e. As
we proceed up the scale, tbey commence and increase in
u•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
126 ITRUCTURE OP THE BRAIN.
size ond number. Every one rn'ust hnve been struck with
the difference, os to docility, between do~s aml catil.
Accordingly, Des 1\loulins estimates the com·olutions ofthe ·
dog to exceed six or eight tim.es those of the eat. The npe
has more )prge Q.nd numerous convolutions thnn the dog,
thou-gh some dogs oro scnrcely inferior to the higher order,
even of npes, in this respect. The most marked superior-
ity exists in the npes of the old world over those ofthe new,
ns is wcU known ; and there is n corresponding diffe11enee
in the convolutions. It wnntnted by l\1. B~rnrd thnt non•~
of the gentlemen present nt the dissection of envier's brain
remembered to have seen one so complicated, or with con-
volutions so numerous nnd compact, or with such deep
anfractuosities ; these lost were stnted os nn inch deep.
Atrocious criminals hove been noticed to hnvc very smnll,
nurrow nml shnllow convolutions in the mornl regions.
According to Huller, the brnin is supplied with oue fifth
of all the blood in the body ; according to Dr. 1\lonro, with
one tenth. In either case the supply is very grent. Ench ·
hemisphere has its own arteries ; but the venous blood is
c::arried awny by n common canol.
The substance of the brain is composed of ll white mat-
ter in the interior, cnlled the medullary. portion, and of a
gray or cineritious matter forming the .outside, which dips
tlown with the convolutions, and forms the dnrk substnnce
seen bet\Yecn the folds. It does not blend gradually with
the white or medul1nry mntter, but, on the contrary, the line
of demarcation is abrupt. The supply of blood seems to
·be greater than in the medullnry portion. The eonvolu-
tiona appear intended for the purpose of increasing the au-
perficial extent of the brain without enlarging its absolute
size-an arrangement analogous to that employed in the
eye of the eagle.
It hi often RBked whether in the brain there are distinct
linee ·of eeparation obeervable between the organa. · We
IUII1fer·ao. We presume that in the br~ such lines do
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
STRUCTURE OF THE DR.UN. 127
exist, though our present menus of ohservntion nre too im-
.perfect to dete~t them ; but, tl!l I have before ~tnted, this
objection lies ngninst the distinct functions of the different
pnrts of the spinnl column, ns wcii ns ngnim1t the distinct
functions of the different parts of the brnin.
Sir Chnrles Bt:IJ remarks of the brnin, that " wlintever
we obsene on one side, has n corresponding pnrt on the
other ; nnd nn exnct r<'scmblnnce und t~ymmetry is pre-
served in nil the latcml dh·isions." This stutement is not
rigidly correct. There is n gcnernl correspondence be-
tween the pnrts on the opposite sides of the brnin, but not
nn 'exnct symmetry.' But the symmetry is ns grent as
between corresponding pnrts in nny pnrt of the body, as
between the bloodvessels of the left nnd right nrms, for in-
stnncc, or between the muscl<'s of the two opposite sidt..-s.
On talking over this mntter with Dr. Conolly, he remnrkcd
thnt, ns the conyolutions were nothing but folds, nnd ns the
· folding was merely for the sake of.packing, n little dif-
ference in the folding probably has no influence on the
cerebral functions.
·I hnve snid thnt we cannot point out the cxnct line of
demnrcntion between uny two orgnns in the brnin. It must
not be inferred from this thnt no difi"crence cnn be discover·
ed between vnrious pnrts, for the convolutions of the pro-
pensities nrc lnrger thnn those of the sentimenttt, uud these
lnst nrc larger than tho~e of the intellect, so thnt ifyou were .
to cut out an orgun ofn propensity from an ndult brain, and
present it to n skilful phrcnologi::~t, he would have no diffi-
culty in distinguishing it from nn orgnn of intellect.
The different pnru of the brain are brought into com·
munication with each other, by menns of a number of com·
mi•sures. At the bat~e of the cleft between the two hemi·
spheres ofthe bruin, is a large body which consists of fibres
passing from one hemisphere to the other, nnd uniting
them : this is called the corpus callosum. · Ten years ago I
pointedout a convolution of tbe brnin lying nbove the corpus
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
- .128 IITRUOTURE OP THE DRAIN.
cnlloJum, extending from the bottom of ConccntrntivenesH .
to the orgnns of the intcllcctunl fncuhies. Thi~:~ convolu·
tion Mr. Solly hns recently shown to be n comHlis.surc,
uuitin,g tho posterior nud nntcrior portions of tho brnin.
This gcnllcmnn ~c11cribes nine conuni11surc~-six trnns·
w:erso, two longituclinnl, nnd uno ohli1JttC. 'l'ho superior
commissure wliieh nnihls the nntcrinr nml pot~tcrior pnrts
of tho brnin, I t~howccl to n number of phy~icinns both in
tliis city nncl l)hilndclphin. Dr•..1\lcCiellnn of Philnddphin
eonfcs!!cd thnt hc1forc my nrrivnl in thnt city he used to de-
ride phrenolo~y, mt•ntionin~ in pnrticulnr to his clnss, thnt
no eommunicntion wns found to cxit~t between tho nntcrior
·aand posterior portions of the brAin. lie found, however,
that he hod been lnu~hing in i~nornnce of tho existence of
tho superior longitmlinnl commissure. llut he hnd the
rnre mngnnnimity to confess it to his mcdicn.l students:
· The capitol nr top of the spinnl mnrt·ow is cnllcd tho me- ·
dulla oblongata. JIere we notice three bodies on cnch
side, constituting whnt nrc called the cm·pora pyramidalia,
the corpora olivaria, nnd the corpora restiformia.
Tho corpora pyramidalia nrc n continuntion of the ante·
rior or motory tract of the spinal morrow. They nrc fi-
brous, dflcussntc nt their lower extremity, proceed upward
through the Po11s Varolii, escnpe from its upper border, ond
the greater rmmber pnssing still upward form the anterior .
and externnl bundle:~ of the cr11ra cerebri und exterior part .
of the corpora striata, nnd uhimntely cxpnnd into the infe-
rior, anterior, nnd exterior convolutions of the anterior nnd
middle lobes of the brain. A number offibres ofthe corpora
pyrnmidnlia pnss in~o the middle nnd posterior lobes, and n
number into the cerebellum. ' We shall inunedintelysee how
benutifu11y this nrrnngement of the motory fibres, corrob:
orates phrenological doctrines.
The intellectunl faculties are situated in the anterior.lobe
of the brain. They ~noble man to perceive objects that
ezitt, their qualities, and relations, an~ when acting to·
o; tized 'YGoogle
STRUCTURE OP TRE DL\IN. 129
gethcr they constitute tcill. 'Ve hnve seen thnt the intel-
lcctunl organs spring from the corporn pyrnmidlllin which
nrc at.the top of the motnry tmct of tho spinnl marrO\v.
Here, tlwn, iaJ n direct rt•lntion botwt•cn the cnnvulntions
whieh mallifcst trill, nud the motory trl\ct which c:rrcutcs will.
·The cnrpom olinuin mul corporn rc~tifimnitl t~priug from
thnt column of the spinal cnrtl which i11 tlc\'OtNl tn. lfiiSll•
ti11n. 'l'hc former patt:t upwtmHnto tlw l,ons Yar.iolii, nnd
timn the pot~tcriur nnd interior parts of tho cruril; t'-cnca
.throu~h the grt~at po~tcrior g:mglion, ntul expand partly
into tllll com·nlutinns of the.• untt•rior lobo lyiult on its upptr
:~mf:\c,•, tnw:ntl3 the mt•sial line, pnrtly into the superior
convolutions towards the nw~inl line of the middle lobe;
but chiefly into the con\'olutions of the posterior lobes.
The latter nsccnd nnd form the chit•f pnrt of the cerebellum,
but n portion enters intn the compo~ition of tho posterior
lobes of the brnin. 'l'hc distribution of these fibres is nlso
in beautiful harmony with the doctrines of our scicnc~. ·
The con\'olutions of the middle autl those ~f the J>Osttri•
or Jobes of the brain, manifest the feelings. 'l'hese, as we
have seen, spring chiefly from the ccrporn olivaria. The
functions of the cerebellum is to mnnifest the instinct of
reproduction, which is ah:o nfeeling; nnd the cerebellum
springtz, ns I hm·e just said, from the corporn restiformia.
Now these bodies constitute the top of the sensory trnct of
the spinal mnrrow.
We sec, then, that while the intellectual organs are form-·
ed of fibres connected with the motory trnct, the organs of
the feelings nrc formed of fibres connected pri11cipally with
the smsory, but partly with the motory tract.
The arrangement of llltructure, by which the organtt of
feeling nrc supplied with film•s in direct connection with
the motory tract, is another mnnit~stntion of that harmony
which subsists between phrenology nnd anatomy, rightly
understood. Encb feeling manifests itself by means of the
muscular &ystem. Thus fear, rage, or any other feeling
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
130 tUB TUTAMINA OP THE DRAIN.
communicntcll grent energy to the mullcles of voluntary
motion. A~nin, eneh feeling impresses certain pceulinr
motions, enllcd · its nl\turul lnngungc, on .the museu1M
nenes: thus self-c~t<:cm, when pretlominunt, gives the ten-
dency to curry the. bend nnd body reclining backward.
Hence, ngllin,. wr. tiCC the necessity of t1 direct conununiea-
tion between the ft!dings and nerves of motion.•
We come now to tho qucstion-Cnn tho size or-the cere-
. bral convolutions be nscertuined by inspection of the bend
during life t
The bruin is embrn(l{!d by three membranes : the pia ma-
ter and tw&ic-a arachnoidea, both very th!n, and the dura
JRC~ter, which is thin but strong, nnd adheres strongly to the
inner surface of the skull. The brnin enclosed in these
membranes so e:xnetly fills the interior of the skull thnt n
cnst in plnster of the interior of the sl\ull, is a fac simile
or the brain covered by the durn mater.
The skull is the bony ease: this is composed of three lny-
ers-a very-compact one internnlly, n less compact one ex-
ternally, and a cellular layer between, cnlled the diploe.
• Dnrin~ Mr. Combe'a firo~t visit to New York, n number of medical
aentlemen expressed ll strong desire to witness tho dissection of the
brain, nccording- to the method pnraued by GnU and Spnr7.heim. I took
ocCillion to mention this to .1\fr. Combe, who, with the utmo!lt rcadin('!IS,
oft'ered to demonstrate tho bmin, nnd gnvo me lenvo to fonn n dn!'s of
medical gentlemen to witness the diesection. Brains were provided.
and at the appointed tio1e, the lectnrer demonstrated to 1\ class, ecveral
members of w1aich were medical professors, the fibrous clmrncter of the
brain, the decussation or the fibres ofthe corpora pyramidalin, their pas·
age throngh tho Pone Varolii, and their ultimate expansion into the
.anterior nnd middle lobes. In like mnuner he traced the fibres which
rile (rom the corpora olivnria nnd corpora ret~tiformia to their respective
ea:pansion~. lie traced tho optic nrrvoa to the anterior pnir of the ·
corpora qnndriaemina. Showed the variotls cmumita!'nres of tho brain,
and the manner of nnfolding ita convolutiollS. There \vas n geneml
expl'ellion of lllltisfaction and grntification, nnd an acknowledgment
ftom all present, I believe, thnt they had aeon aome thinp which they
biiJ DHer before bad the opportunity ofwitneaaing.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
THE TUTA!\IINA OP TBE BRAIN. 131
Now the externnl $urfncc of tltc skull corre~pontls nlmost
exnctly with the intcrnnl, except in n few point11. which I
shoJI mention. 'l'ho llcpnrture fi'Om pertcct pnrn1Jclis1n,
where it occurs, is limited to one-tenth or one-eighth of nn
inch. Agnin, the intt•guments or co\·crings of the skull lie
close to its surface, nud nrc so uniform in thickness n~ to ex-
hibit its true figure. 'l'bulJ, then, there is, iu general, no ob-
stacle to the discovery of the form ofthe brnin by tbc form of
the skulJ or hcud. ·
The skuH is very thin nt the orbitnl plntes, and nt the
squnmous portion of the temporal bone: it is thick nt the
ridges of the frontnl nnd occipital bones, but this is nlways
the cnse, nnd therefore presents.no difficulty.
One pnrt of the bruin;however, docs some-
times .present n difficulty. I refer to n cm·ity
cnlJcd the frontal sinus. It lies nbo,·c tho
nose nnd is formed between the external nml
iutcrnnl surfnces oftho skull. The size ofthis
sinus vnries. But recollect that it only inter-
feres with five orgnns-Form, Size, 'Veight,
Individuality nnd Locality. .Agnin, below the ngc of twelve
it does not exist : hnd ns the five organs before mentioned
nrc generally very nctin! before thnt ngc, the sinus cnnnot
interfere with our ob:~ervation of them before thnt period.
Tho sinus, therefore, pret~cnt:J no diffiwlty in the way of
our cliscovering the jllnctions of these orga11s, if we study
•mbjeets below twelve years of l\ge. The opponents con-
ceal this fact. After this nge it appears, grnJunlly en-
larges, and nfter twenty may present some difficulty to the
observer.* ·
Look at this skull for yonrselvcs. You see thnt the par-
allelism of the outer nnd inner surfaces i~ almost complete.
-You will observe the same in this, nnd this, and this-
• I was the firstto maintain that it was :...;ossible for us to determine,
with exactness, the de:velopment of certnio convoluttons, by the iaapeo-
tion oCthe extemaleurface oCthe cranium. Gall ill. 29.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
132 ON DlSEAMI'.D II(.ULtll.
in abort, in all heoltiay skulls. Observe this skull-it is
that ofa boy twelve years old-you sec the sinus doea not
exist. ln this we bnvc·it of overage size ;. and when of
this size, ~o difficulty is presented. ·
Recollect, phrenologists pretend nofto tell the power of
nn organ.when the bruin or skull is diseased. They make
their obse"otions·on healthy individuals in the prime oflife.
It is therefore utter}y futile to bring ngoinst us morbid speci-
mens. In disease of the brain the inner table of the skull
sometimes recedes, and not the outer,· the spnce between be-
ing often filled up·with bone, rendering the skull very thick
--oc~asionally enormously so. Here is o skull ns irregular
on the surface 08 the sen r.uftled by the wind ; but then it is
the skull of a very old ·mnn. I know n gentlemnn of Rnth
eigl•ty-six years of nge, in whose skull a lilte chnnge bns
taken place. Such cases ure not uncommon ond I om at a
lose to account for them, since they seem not to result from
disense, as the faculties of the gentleman I refer to ore
heakhily manifested~ This skull is very thick and irregu-
lar: it belonged to a drngoon in the British service, who
became insane, and nine months afterword killed himself.
In thia case we find the frontal sinus very wide-nearly
half ..n inch.
Dr. Sewall of Washington, to wl~om, when in thnt city, I
was indebted for many n~s of kindness, has publit~hed a
work against phrenology, nhnost entirely tnlten up with a
·deicription Of diseased skulls. Now1 as I remarked to him,
hie work.ia no more anti-phrenological thnn it is nnti-gco-
logicnl nr nnti nny thing else. To the frontnl sinus lt~hnll
ngoin allude, when I come to the range of faculties which ·
may be interfered \f'ith by its size. In the mean while,
howeTer, bear in mind thnt there is a great difference be-
tween the possibility of disco,ering the functions of an or-
pn and of applying this disconry practically in all cases,
10 at to .be able, to predicate the exact degree in which
flferr particular mental power is present in each individuaL
o; tized 'YGoogle
TilE GROW'fll 01-' 'flm ISKUI.L.
Now we have seen tliat before twclre no imp<'diul<~nt to iht
observation existd. Agoin, in nfll'r life, if the slutll be dt~­
pressed in this pnrt, no error cnn be committed in stating
the subjacent orgnns as ~mall ; for ifthe tainus be larger than
It seems, the error wiiJ bo On the side of the phrcno)ogi~t.
The ouJy cnses which nt any time can be producti,·e of er-
ror, are those in which the sinus causes a protuberance
without, to which the brnin docs not correspond within.
But even here, it is possible, in general, to distinguish be-
tween external nppcnrnuccs produced by n large de..-clop-
ment of the frontal sinus, an.rl those indicating large de,·el-
opment ofthe organt~. In the first, they are generally nbrupr
·nud ridgy; in the second, they present n rounder swell, nntl
follow the direction ofthe oa·gans ns dclincntcd on the Lust::.
"'t> mny be nskcd how it is that nu inli.mt's slmJJ, suchu~
the one I hold, can be enlarged te ~he :;ize of an adult skull.
The explanation is this: Two processes nrc ever going on
in the system-deposition and absorption-by the first of
which new particles are laid down, nnd by the second old
ones nre taken up. The slutll, then, is a strong, but not
an adamantine barrier. It shields the brain by its powerflil
structure, yet for ever changes to accommodate itself to the
size of its noble occupnut : for it is worthy of remark that,
throughout organized notut·e, the hard parts yield to the soft.
Thus large lungs produce n lnrgc chest-not n large chest
large lungs. So the skull is formed to the brnin-not rl•~
brain to the skull. At first the brnin i::1 covered by n mcrn
membrane, in which bone nt lf'ngth begins to be deposited.
The deposition commences at pnrticulnr points, Wld bony
rays shoot out in nil directions, jusl ns you hnve seen in tlw
formation of ice. It is not till some time after birth that
ossifi~ation is complete. 1'he skull is formed ·into eight
bones, which unite nt their edges, nnd become dovetailccl
together. 1'he Jines of union nre cnlled suture~ or scamf,
The extent to wl1ieh the bend may be enlarged is seeu
from this enormous skull, ·which Lclongcd w nn individuAl
12
o; tized 'YGoogle
134 ON THE EMPLOYMENT OJ' THB WORD DUMP.
whom· I snw nt St. Thomas's Hospital, who was affected
with water in the hrnin. Hi:i fncuhics were sound, but his
. .
head wna so heavy that he could not support it.
Ju commencing the study ·of phrenology, individunls
gcncrnJly become very diligent feelers of their own hends.
They search nbout, und finally they rest upon this large pro·
.tuberance behind the enr. They arc in amazement at the
size of the' bump,' ns they nrc pleased to cnll it. '!'hell
they wonder whether it is a good bump or a bnd one. Now
this protuberance is a mere bone, caJied the mnstoid pro·
cess, and is for the attncluncnt of muscles. It has no rela·
tion whatever to the brain, nnd may therefore be not u1:apt·
Jy styled the Ass's bridge, over which incipient phrenologist:;
have to ·pass.
With regard to this word 'bump,' which has long becu
supposed to ·contnin a who.le volume of wit withi.•• itself, ·
allow me to remnrk that I think its use is S'nnctioned by
neither correctness of Jnngunge, nor sound philosophy. It
is often used, too, in a low, contemptuous sense. It is C\'i·
dent to me .that the brain is the work ofGod, nnd emiuent·
ly displays His goodne~s and wisdom. In talking of it, wt:
ought, theref()re, to use philosophical and respectful Inn·
guage. What would you think ofa man's taste who, before
speaking·of the functions of the eye, should sny-" Come,
let us say something about the blinker&" l-or, as an intro·
duction to n demonstration of the functions of the stomach,
should say-" Come, let us tnlk about the bread-basket" 1
Yet, such expressions are on a pnr with-" Come, let us
talk about the bump&." .
· In concluding this pnrt of my subject, Jet me show you
how unimportant a difference of one-tenth or one-eighth of
1u1 inela is in the thicknessof the skull. 'I'his is the head of
. .Joseph Humo, M.P.; this of Dr. Chalmers. The general
eize is nearly the snme in both; yet, inthe region of Ideali-
ty, Chalmers' head is an intA and a quarter wider than
Hume's. Contras\ this head ofGoneml Wurmser with th11t
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
PHRENOLOGIC.\L EVIDEt\CE ESTIMATIVE. 13.5
of the Hindoo in the regions of de~tructin:nt-ss and com-
bativeneas. Contrast these three bends in the region uf
firmness: there is a difference of more than au inch. Con-
trast this
head of an
idiot with
that of Dr.
Gnll: how
vast the dif-
As to authority, the best i$ on our side. l\lngendie says
that " the only way of estimuting the volume ofthe brain in
a li\·ing person, is to measure the dimcnsio11s of the skull.
Every other means, even that proposed b~· c·amper, is un-
certain:' Sir Charles Hell, Cuvier, ~Ionro, Blumenbnch,
nud others, hold similar lnngunge. That the Jorm of the
hrnin cnn be ascertained by the form of the head may then
he considered us established.
But it has been objected that the whole method of phre-
nologists is empirical, that we cannot weigh or measure
either an organ or its manifestation. '"c plead guilty to .
the charge, and freely admit that the two clements in our
method of investigation nrc both, in their own unture, csti-
mati,e. llut tl•cn, we affirm that if au observer possess nn
uverage endowment ofthe observiug nnd reflective faculties,
IJC mny, hy due practice, learn to estimate both develop-
ment and manifel'tatiou with sufficient precision to lead him
to positive conclusions. Phrenology rests on the snme kind
ofevidence as the practice of l\Icdicinc. Diseases arejudged
ofby the symptoms or nppenrnuces which they present. 'fbe
knowledge of what organs nrc affected ; of the degree to
which they nrc affected, nnd of the extent to which medi·
cines net on them, depends entirely on ,.stimative evidence.
The same general laws of evidence must necessarily ap-
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
136 .OIATIVENE8S•
..
ply to the study of phr-enology ns of medicine. The men-
tal manifestations are neither pondernble nor men~urable
nny more than the capacity for pnin or pleasure, or the
powers of hearing or sight. 'Ve eatimate th~ degree to
which these.susceptibilities nnd capacities are possessed by
different individuals, nnd regnrd our knowledge ns ~ubstnn­
tial ; so we estimate the force of mentn) mnnifestations by
the exercise of obsc.rvntion nnd reflection, nod must neces-
sarily do so, or remnin for ever ignornnt of ruentnl science.
Agnin; I hnvc just demonstrnted thnt differences between
the form of pnrticulnr orgnns, nnd between their size,·when
large nnd smnll, nrc so pnlpnblc thnt to deny the possibility
or distinguishing them, iu favourable cases, is perfectly ab-
surd ; aml in }Jroving science, we nre not only entitled but
- bound by the dictates of common sense, to select thl.l ilim-
plest nnd most ::;trikiug cm1es ns best cnlculnted to bring
truth to light. !fhol'le individunls, therefore, who object to
the evidence on which phrenology is founded, nppenr to
mP. completely to mismulerstnud the nuture of the inquiry.
To •leny tho possibility of c!ltimnting the size of the ccre-
bml organs nnd mentnl mnnifcstntious, is ns nbsurd ns to
deny that \Ye ·can estimate whether nny feature of the body
be lnrgc or smnJI, or whether n person be blind, ncar-
l'ightcd or·shnrp-sightcu.
I shnll no\v proceed to cll'scribe the particular orgnns,
premising thnt the fncultic1:1 nrc divided into two orders-
FZBLINOS nnd INTELLECT ; the feelings into two genera-
.PaoPEN81TIE8 nnd SENTII\IENTs. Of the l,ropensities I
thnll now trent:
}. AI\IATIVENES~.
'l'o learn the situation of thi.s orgnu, feel on the middle
line toward the.bnse of the skull at the buck part of the
head, nnd you will find n small bony projection named the
nccipitnl ttpine. Amntiveness is situated below tbnt point
nnd between the mastoid proct'11scs. The size oftho organ
it indicated by the extension or tho in.fcrior aurfnce of tho
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
AliATIVENESS. 137
occipital bone backward and downward, or by the thick-
ness of the neck nt these pnrts between the ears. Its Inrge
size gives grent peripheral expansion to the neck from the
ears bnckwnrd. In infhnts, the cerebellum is the lenst de-
veloped of nil the cerebral parts, forming but from one-thir-
. teenth to one-twentieth of the weight of the brain, whereus
.tt ndult nge it constitutes from one-eighth to one-sixth. I u
infnnts; the pnrt of the neck corresponding t9 the cerebel-
lum nppenrs nttnched to the middle of the base of the skull ;
townrds puberty it begins to expand behind. This pnrt is
generally more t.lcveloped in males thnu in females.
J. Ccrc!Hll11m moderate. ~. CmhtU11m large.
0
3. 0 Rtprt'ltflll ca lcargt thtlqpment oftla4 urelxllum dotcntJXJrdl.
4. In tAu shll tAe distance bttarttn l\1 the tnn1toid pro«u, au tAe
lpi11e oftAe tTGIIRerll ridge oftAe occipital 6o"c il large, aldtotlgll tAe Mi
Wal fiiJtlliag O.cfou "oe droop a in tAe prcudireg lkllll.
12*".
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
•
138 AMATIVENESS.
The function of the cerebellum itt to manifest the BCXunl
Ccelings. .In this bust of Dr. Jletto tho dcvclopnwut is
very smnll, ntt yon perceive, nml tho nuuairt.~z:~_tntion of feel· .
ing corresponded. Compure tha bust of llettc with this of
:&litchell nnd this of Denn-how enormous tho develop·
ment in these lnst !-both of whom were executed, 1\litchcll
for murdering a young \Yomnn whom be hnd seduced, Dcun
for murdering n child without nny rntionnl motive, nnd un-
doubtedly under the intlueneo of di:1ensed ccrcbrnl nction,
occasioned by disnppointed love. You seo her~ the hcHd
of the Rev. 1\lr. 1\lnrtin, in which it is small. This is the
head· of Linn, th~ parricide, in;.vhich it is very large. The
head of GnU, ns you perceive, shows n very lnrgu eerehcl·
lum-nud it seems to hnvo been tho only fnculty wl1ieh he
abused.
Thill fnculty exercises a very grent influence on the
character. lloys beforo tho ngo of puberty nre gcn.crally
undefcrcntinJ, nnd even rude, toward the other sex, but nftc:r
thot ngc they become kind nnd attentive. It softens all the
harsh feelings of our nature, and increases the force nucl
activity. of ntl the kindly nnd benevolent ntfcctions townnls
the opposit~ sex•
It is thought by mony thnt the functions of this organ cnn·
not be approached. But it nppcnrs to me that " to the pure
all thingtt ore pure," and thnt there is no function which
does not present nn aspect, in which it may be mn<lc to
manifest the wisdom nnd goodness of the Creator.
Some think it best thnt young people should be kept iu
entire ignorance ofthe function of this orgnn. This is nn
opinion to which I can by no menus subscribe. The
organ of Amntiveneu is the lnrgcet of nll the mental organ~1
1\Dd being endowed with natural nctivity, it fills the mind
spontaneously with emotions nnd suggestions the manifesto·
tion of which mny be directed and controlled, but wbicl
cannot bo prevented from nrising, even ·though you shu·
youth out entirely from the world. The 'luestion ia not
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
AMATIVENESS. l:JCJ
therefore, whethrr tho feeling shnll nrisc or not-0\'Cr that
wo huvc no control-but whether it t~hnll be pluccd muter
the guhlnncc of nn enlightened umlcrstnnding, or bo with·
drnwn from tho eye of renson, nud nllowctl to riot in nil the
fierceness of t\ blind nnimnl instinct. 'l'ho fc)rmer courso
1\})pcnrs to me tho only one consistent with renson nnd
morality, nnd the one which should be inmrinbly ntloptcd.
1\lcssrs. l•'lourcns nml 1\Iagetulie think tlwy luwc discov-
ered, by intlicting injuries on the cerebellum, tlmt it st•r\·cs
for the rcgulntiou of musculnr motion. llut from these
experiments no certain conclusions nrc deducible. The
indiction of .injury on ol}e pnrt of the nervous syt~tetu de·
rnnges other pnrts...-nml hence it' is not the wny to deter-
mine tho function~ of amy. Agnin, l\lr. Solly hnt~ discov-
ered n column of lihrcs which pnt~Sl'S l'rom tho motory trnet
of the medulla oblougntn to the Cl'rcbcllum. Now when
these experimenters slicl'd this part, they commenced nt the
distnl extremity of the motory fibres nnd destroyed them to
tl1e mcdulln oblungntn. By thu$ injuring nml irritnting the
motory trnct, nn wonder thnt cnm·uh•ions followed! The
cerebellum is com))OSell, ns I have bt•fclrc rmid, of fihres
connected with the motory ns well ns the sensory trnct o(
the spinal column. It is an orgnn of feeling, but nJso influ-
ence$ voluntary motion by ·instincth·e impulses. lnjurie1
of the cerebellum mny therefore cause irregular or con-
vulsive musculnr movements without being the regulntor of
such movement~. Thnt the cerebellum mny manifest
· other functions than that of Amntiveness i• not, however,
im.pos~ible ; but tlmt this fi1culty occupies the largest pnrt •
of it is unqucstionnLle.•
• "The cold in clime nrc cold in blood;
Their love can scarce desen·e the name." ByrOJ&'I Gto.r.
An opinion is somewhat pre,·nlt>nt thnt the nmnth·e f~!cling increa!lel
m
strength fron1 the pol~s towards the cqnnlor; but f.'\Cts are at Yai'U\0~
with this •hypothesi~=. No people m:mifest Rmativeut>!ll more lti'Ob&fJ
than ~e Eaqaimaux, Grecnhwdera and other northern D&bOIII.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
140 PBILOP&OOBNITIYUf&llo
'
LECTURE IV.
2. PUILOPROGENITITENESS.
[I lave omitted _sucla parts ofthe lecture as refer to tAose
facts, con.ceniirag this organ, toAicla are more filll!J detailed in
tlae Introductory Essay from page 26 to page 41 inclruive.
To that euayi refer tlae reader. A. D.]
Tms faculty has been confounde<l with thnt of benevo·
lence, but it is often strong when benevolence is very weak,
and weak when benevolence is very strong. 'Vhcn the
organ is large it renders the office of rearing children plea·
sant, nay delightful, even· when they belong to others. Sir
Walter Scott·remnrks thnt nmoug children there is n sort of
freemasonry, by which they tJetect nhnost instantly thoso
who pny attention to them merely thnt they mny be plcns-
ing to the parents, nnd thnt they recognize by intuition
those w.ho tnke rcnl plensure in their society.
This faculty is frequently nbnsed; people often pamper
and spoil children instead of training them rationnlly.
They forget thnt this is a blind feeling ; indeed, nil the pro·
pensities nre blind-and by proving this, phrenology will
confer one of its greatest boons on man.
This faculty sometimes takes a direction that has subject·
ed its possessors to ridicule. In the United States, all ladies
who have arrived at adult age seem to be married ; but in .
my own country, this (alas !) is not the case ; and among
unmarried ladies ·we f!ee the· amiable feeling now under
cOnsideration lavished upon lap-dogs, cats or birds, these
· delicate and little· animals being used aa substitute• (Qr
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
,
Pll1LOrROGENITIVENES$. l·U
children. 'fbis prneticc is often ridiculccl ; but recollect
thnt it is the mnnifestntion of (l feeling which under more
fnvournble circumstnnces would hm·e rendered them excel-
lent nnd devoted mothers.
Here is the skull of n negro; this of n Scotch highlnml-
rr; this of n Chnrib from the islnnc.l or St. Vincent ; sec
how lnrgely the orgnn is dcvclopcd-ntlll these people
strikingly mnnifest love of children. When nt Brussels, I
talked with n womnn concerning the bebm·iour of the
Scotch highlnnders who hnd been billeted in her house, du-
ring the wnr. She snid they were ns gentle nnd ntfcctionntc
in the house as they were brnve in the field, nnd thnt they
were very fond of children. Sec whnt n large development
in the slmll of the poet Burns-and how bcnutifully iM the
feeling mnnifested in his poetry ! In the Y.;sqnimnux it is
,·ery lnrge ; here is n t:pecimen. Captnin Pnrry :mys, thnt
love of children is almost the only amiable feeling they
mnnifest. He met n pnrty of them without fi>od nnd nlmost
dying with hunger ; he relieved them, and the first thing
they did wns to feed their children, not attending to thrir
own wnnts till the little ones were fully satisfied.
'fhis organ is sometimes disenscd. l\lcntnl deran!!;cmcnt
is one of those subjects on which phrenology throws n flood
of light. Disensed nftcctions of the mind, by renson of
111en's ignorance, have been a source of much anxiety nnd
• maltreatment. People hare }mown not \vhnt to do. Some-
i times terrified, sometimes horrified, sometimes mystified,
they have had no iden that it wns the disease of n material
organ, which wns probably in a state of exalted action, and
which, like inftnmmntion of the eye, might be got rid of by ·
a proper remedial course•
.A lady in whom this organ is very large, told me that she
frequently drenms of children. She described one dream
which imparted to her the most exquisite delight, in which
she seemed to have her whole lap full .of babies, which were
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
142 NATURAL LANGUAGE.
smiling, sprnwHng, raising their hands nnd tossing a~out in
the most interesting manner imaginable.
i now como to what is called the Natural Language of
·tlae Organs. Up to this time you will perhaps grant thnt
I bavo been talking with a show, at least, of reason; but
now you will probably set me down as fanciful nnd absurd.
I nm prepared for this ; but I doubt not that you will nc·
knowledge its truth before the end of the course ; for .ns
·. most of you hnvo some predominant organ, and as ench
organ hns a language of its own, though you may think
my description of the natural language of those organs
which in you are weak to be ridiculous, you will recognize
the language ofyour CJwn strong organs, and be convinced
that there is truth in it after all.•
'.rhc law ofaction, os laid down by Gnll, is, ,thnt the mo·
tions are nil in the direction of the seat of the orgnns.~
. · '.l'hat nuturul Jangunge docs exist all will allow when they
reflect thnt by mein, walk and gesture the actors of pnnte·
mime ore enabled to. operate powerfully on the feelings
\vithout uttering a word. 'rhe nnturul tendency of Philo-
progenitiveness when predominantly nctive, is to throw the
head bockW(!.rd.
Near 1\lnnchester I t~aw n young woman bring her hus·
hand'11 brcakfnllt to him, and sit by the rond-11ide till he nte
it, apend,ing the time in caressing her child. Her whole
manner was expressive of the highest delight. She kissed
aud fondled the infant, pre&sed it to her bosom, and then
she threw back her·head, repenting the same action several
times. 1.,his was the natural language of this feeling.
It would have formed a most beautiful subject for a pa~nter.
• Pantomime ia the unh·enal Jangnage or all nation•, and ofaD ani·
male. There ia no beut, there i1 no man who doea not Jearn it; there
ia no beast nor mnn who doea not undentand it; it accompaniea Jan.
page and atrengtbena ita espreaaion•; it supplies the defects or articu·
Jalelanpap; worda ma7 be.ambipou, but pantomime never it 10
~~~ . . .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CONCENTR.\TIV~NESS. ·143
The great painters of Itnly noticed the same expression,
and in tkeir represcntntions of the murder of the innocents,
they place the bereft mothers with their hc~ds thrown bnck
and the e.xtrcme of agony depicted in their countenances.
3. CONCENTR.\TlVENESS.
Tms orgnn is situated immediately above Philoprogcni-
tivenet-!1, nnd below Self-Esteem. Plu-cnologists ditfcr con·
ccrniug its functions, therefore I shall not occupy much
time upon it. Spurzheim, from ob:sen·ing it large in nni-
mnls fond of dwelling in one place, called it lnltabitiveness.
( observed persons whose thoughts, like clouds, come nnd
go without regularity-whose sentences have I!Ucce~Jsion
without relation. In them I have found the organ very
smnll. I observed others, of less mental cnpncity, remurkn-
ble for continuity of thought, and for the nnturnl r~lation·
ship existing between the successive suQjects of their con· .
versntion. In these I have found the organ h~rge. . It OJl·
peared to me, therefore, thnt its function is to T.:eep lUJo or
mort organs ir& continuous and simultaneous activit!/. Dr.
Hoppe anrl the Rev. Dr. "'elsh agreed with me in this
view• . I have nlrendy mentioned that I noticed some years
ago.n convolution of the brain running fr.om the region of
this orgnn, nenr the base of the cleft between tbe two cere-
brut hemispheres, ::u:! terminating in the nnteriorlobe, nnd
that 1\lr. Solly has since pmved thioi to be a commissure.
Dr. Vimont of Pnris has made some obttervations whicb,
if established, will reconcile the ,-icws of Dr. Spurzheim
and my~elf. Having directed his attention to bird:J which
live on fish, nnd which hover O\'er water, watch with itt-
tense fixedness and then dart downward ns though they
were arrows rather thnn living beings, and having com·
pared them with ducks nnd other animals which practice
no such concentrated watchfulness and uction, he found
in the first n great development of the lower part of this
region, and in tbe others great deficiency. Thia he calla
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ADHESIVENESS.
Concentrotiveness. He found that thia organ did not oc-
cupy the wbole·space, but left a region immediately above
it and below Self-Esteem which, bo is convinced, npper·
taina to the faculty of Inhubitiveness. If this view be cor-
rect, and I am pretty ·well aatisficd that is, then are Dr.
Spu~heim's views and my own reconciled.
4. .DHBSIVENESS.
This organ·ia situated at the middle of the posterior edgt:
of the pnr1etnl bone, on each side of the lower pnrt of Con-
ccntrativeness and the upper part of Philoprogenitivenes:S.
Dr. Gall was requested to mould the head of a Indy who
wns a model ·of friendship. He did so, and found two
tnrge symmetrical protuberances, one on each side. 'l'hl'
lady hnd suffered grcnt mutations offQrtunc. Sl.•e hnd beeu
rich, and then poor-again rich, and ngoin poor ; but
amid' nll these changes she remained firmly attached ''' l11 1
friends. TbJ idea nnturaJiy suggested itself that this pan
might be thP. organ of the disposition to uttnchment.
1\IRny subsequent observations confirmed the conjecture.
You will eeldom find this orgnn in an isolated protuber-
ant state. Its large size is generally indicnted by. thl'
brcndth und fuJiness of this region. Compare these two
11kull.s ; this is the skull of on Esquimnux in which Ama-
. tiveness .and Philoprogenitivcness arc very large, and Arl-
hesiveness small; this is the skull of a Swiss, in which nil
three nre ,-cry large.
Those in whom thi~ organ is lnrge feel the int~tinctlve teu·
dency to.embrace and cling to the object of their uffeetious.
:Qoys mnnifest it by their attnchment to dogs nod rabbits,
nnd in girlt~, to the feeling of Philoprogenitivenc~s it ac:is
the hug of nffection which they besto\V upon their dolJs. I
have seen the poet·Moore, and know this organ to be large
in him, and his poetry breathe• its very spirit :
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ADHESIVENESS.
"The heo.rt, like o. tendril accustomed to cling,
Let it grow where it will cannot flourish alone;
But will lean to the nearest and ltn·eliest thing,
It can twine with itself, and make cloBP,ly its own."
Again-how it glows in the following lines !-
"The heart that loves tntly, Jo,·e, never forgets,
But as truly loves on to the close,
As the sun-flower turns to her god as he eets,
Tho same look that she turned when he rose."
146
In general this organ is larger and the faculty stronger
in woma:n than in man; and the extrem.e ardour and con-
stancy of their attachment may be attributed to this circum-
..:tancc. In them alone can friendship be found in the full-
ness of perfection. Tal(ing advantage of this proneness to
attachment-this consecration of the heart to the object of
affection-some men, for the gratification of a most cle~pi­
cnblc vanity, or from a worse motive, sport with thiil beauti-
ful trait of female nature-conduct which sllould subject
rhem to double infamy, but which is too often a)Jowed to
pass without censure. The seducer glories in his Anccess-
ful villany, while the wronged one is mourning in utter
wretchedness, over ruined hopes and a blighted unme.
'We often find strong attachrnent subsi1:1ting between per-
~t\118 of very different mental characters, in whom thcro nrc
1uany points of repulsion ; but the strength of this feeling
"e1·ves as a bond of union. There are husbands and wives
in whom the attracting and repelling forces are so balnnced
that they cnn be happy neither together nor npart. They
;u·e for ever quarreling and making matters up; they vart
and unite, part again nnd agaiu unite ; again fly off, and
ag11in come together. They are a complete puzzle to their
friends, who can place no dependence on their assertions or
protestation!. In these cnsct~, Adhesiveness will generally
he found lnrgely developed inl;>oth parties. 'fhis produces
instinctive attachment ; but other discordant organs will be
filund in their heads, which produce reciprocal repulsion.
13
Digitized by Coogle
146
/
This faculty is the bond of union among men, and givea
rise to society. lfis found large in many animals ; but
· there nre some, as the fox and mngpie, which live in the
n1iuried stnte, thnt is, they are attached for life ; some,
ognin, ns tho dog, live in society., but nrc not attuched for
Jife. Spurzheim thought nttnchmcnt nnd nttnchment for
life to be modifications of the snmo. fuculty~ Gull inclined
to think them distinct fnculties; ond Dr. Vimont thinks l1e
hos proved this to be the ~ose, und considers the region
which we ascribe to philoprogenitiveness ns comprising twu ·
orgnns-love of young_ in the middle, und on ench side
attachment for life.
Thill orgnn is sometimes aJo nctive in oxen nod horses, that
they become sick, when deprived of their accustomed com-
panions. This disensed. condition of the organ in man is
culled nostnJgin. Many ore unaware of the strength of this
leeling till they have occasion to lenve home. 'Vhen awny
from their frie.nds und companions they feel n yearning to-
word them, nm.l n longing nnd cruving to be ngnin nt home.
· / Amntivene!is, philoprogenitivencss und ndhct~iveue$S form
( the group of domestic ntl'cctions, on .the due regulation nnd
) proa,er:eXt!rcise of which so much ofonr huppincss dl·peau.ls.
- Tt.e natural lnugunge of this fhculty ill to embrace and
cause the orgnns to npproach, ns you see in this plnte of two
little girls, and this of n girl and dove. w·hen a dog or cnt
is under the influence of this filculty, nud wants to show
great ottnchmcnt, it will rub this pnrt ofthe hcnd ngninst its
mol'ter's leg.• When two persons meet in whom this or-
gan predominates, they feel nn involuntnry nttnchment
toward each other springing up in their minds, unless their
other faculties be Tcry incongruous. Those who have it
• There i• a beautiful group or Castor nnd Polhlll, in which \YO let
tbeir arm~ reeling on each other'• 11honlden, and the!IO friend" pre~~ina
toaether their organa ohttachmonL In the Mndonnl\ a•lnpit& orRaphael,
Ka11 prenca thi• rogion or her head aaaioat the cormpooclios repoD
vftht bead ofthe child. GaD, y. m.
Digitized by Google
COMB.\TIVENESS. 147
large give the hnnd a hearty shnke on meeting ; those who
hnve it ttmnll hardly press the hnnd at all. \Vith the first,
absent friends are ever present; they think of them with a
warm glow of affection. \Vith the last, out ofsight out of
mind. The organ wns large in Burns, and his poetry i:c
full of its spirit. It was large in l\Iary l\lne Innes the mur-
derer, nnd she strongly manifested the feeling. A person
to whom she wns firmly attached hnd sent her n pocket-
handkerchief with his nnme written on one corner, and alsn
half au orange, requesting thnt she would eat it on thE'
scaft'old in token oftheir mutunl affection; he having eaten
the other half the preceding morning at the corresponding
hour. She held the corner of the handkerchief,on which
his name was written, in her mouth, all the night preceding
her execution. \Vhen seated on the drop she took the orange
from the turnltey, saying, "Tell him that I die perfectly
! sntislicd thnt he hns done nil in his power for my life, nnd
.that I ent the orange as he desired me. l\Iny God blestt
; him. Say to him that it wns my dying request that he may
:.n-oid drink and bad company, nnd be sure never to be late
out nt night." She forgot eternity in the ardour of her at·
taehment.
In 1836, Dr. , had a patient whom he examined
after death, and in whom he found the lungs extensive)~·
clisenst'd. This was conceived to be n sufficient cause of
d<'nth, nnd the examination proceeded no further till the
brother of the deceased asked him with eagerness what the~·
had found to be the condition of the brain ; nnd when he
learned thnt no examination bad taken plnce, he requested
that they would proceed to examine it. They did so~ nnd
to their astonishment fouud twenty-seYcn abscesses, eleven
in the cerebellum and ten or eleven more in the posterior
lobo, there being but one in the intellectual r<'gion and it
wns in the organ of Tune. The broth('r then stated hi~
rcnf!on for mnking tho requt}st he had. His brother, be
anid, had been a resident of London, where his fnmily then
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
us COM DATIYENWRS.
resided, and that he was formerly very much nttacht-<1 to
Jail family ; and that when he first came to Edinburgh he
manifested about them the usual anxiety, but that before
he died nttnchment to them was uttC1'1y lost, and that he
would hardly have mentioned them in his will if-he had not
been urged to do so.
5. Col\tu.\TlVENESs.
. TuB orgnn of thi~t fhculty is a~itnntcd imme,\intely bnck·
ward nnd upwnrd from the enr. Gull di11covcrcd it by col-
lecting togtther n number of the lower ·clusscs of society,
studying their ·chnrnctcr:s nnd comparing their dcnlop·
ruents. llo fiuuul such ns were rcmnrkublc filr being brtr-
woe• to have this port lnrge, such as were noted for cow-
ardice to have it very small. Subseqtu.•nt obf!crvntions es·
tablished the disco\·ery. In Vienna nnimul combnts were
frequently exl,ibitcd, and one mnn was so intrepid thnt be
often presented himself nlone in the nrenn to susttiin the
attack of a bull or a wild boor. In him Gnll fottnd it very
Iorge. lie found it very Jnrgc in n young Indy who hnd
repeatedly dressed hcr~telf in male attire nnd maintnined
battles with men.*
Dr. Drown IIJlcnl's of this fi\culty. "There is," snys he,
"a principle.in our mind which is tons Jil,e n constant protec-
tor, which mny slumber, indeed, but which slumbers only nt
acasona when its vigHnncc would be useless; which nwakcs,
therefore, nt the first uppcnrnnce of unjust intention, and
which becomes more wntchfnJ nnd more vigorous in pro·
portion to the violence of the nttnc!t which it hns to dread."
" Courage," anys Dr. Johnson, " is n qunlity so neccssnr}
for mnintnining virtue, thnt it is nlwnys .rcttpected, ever
• In the firat interview I ever hnd~ in my trnvelR, with a devoted amn
teur orcock-fighting, be thought be was confiding to me a great secret
by telling ~e that, by eight alone, ho could distinguish good fighten troll
poor.ones, and pointing out, aa the diatingui1bing mark, a greftt breadt:
otlhe hoftd, a little in front ofthe ean. Thia man bad no knowledge o
MJ dilcoveriel•. GaD iv. 27.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
t:Ol\tRATIVF.Nf:!!~.
whf'n it is nssocintNl with vice." Sterne's Uncle Toby is
n pcrfl;onification of grent combativeness, benevolence and
integrity.
'J'his fi\culty produces active courngc, the instinctive pro·
.pl'nsity to nppol'lc, nnd gi\'es thnt boldness to the ·mind which
t•nnhlc!l it to rc:'main undaunted amid opposition; a consid·
t•mulc c•ulownwnt of it h:, therefore-, indi~pensahle to ntl
gt'<'nt nntl mngnnnimous chnrnctcrs. I knew n Indy in
whom tlu! moral f:t'ntimcuts were lnr~c nn<l Combnth·enctt~
. ~
,·cry small, who confel!scd thnt she felt the want of a }>roper
dt•,·clopmetit of this or~an n~ n grent deficiency in her char·
uctt~r. 8ho lnclictl the conrng·c to oppose even mnnifcttt
\\'rong. Shl' felt thnt she should hn\'C been n much morl'
useful womnn with n proper endowment of Combativeness,
und sometimes shed tenrs nt her own pusillanimity. .<\
man without proper Combativeness is always trodden
under foot.
This organ \\':\$ \'cry large, ns you mny see by this hcnd,
in Gcncrnl \Vnrmser, (1) who defended 1\Inntun ngainst nu.
unpnrte. Fighting wns his chief delight. His intellt•ct wn~
hy no menus remtlrknblc, nnd Napoleon snitl he gn~c him
more trouble thnn ten better men. Uy his sudd('n :mrl
fierce nttncks, mndc in defi~nce of nll military principles,
ht.• kept the }<'rcnch in ·a continunl stntc of nlnrm. It i~
rcry Iorge, n~ yon may see, in King Robert Bruce, and aU
lmow how strongly he manife~ted the. faculty. Let th<'
~kull of either of these heroes be compared with this of a
Ceylonese boy.(2)
13*
o; tized 'YGoogle
-----
·
160 OoM1lATIVENE8S.
· Th~ fncuhy is or,grcnt service to tho .bnrristcr, nnd enuse.;
l1is energies to rise in proportion ns he is opposed. Com.
J,ined·with Destructiveness it inspires nuthors with the lnrc
of bottles. Sir 'Vnltcr Scott, who possessed this. com-
J,inntion, rose nbove his usunl energy when dcscribi.ng the
fight, the slaughter, and the shouts of victory. From this
l'ympnthy of authors with wnrriors,.n successful butcher i:;
too often clevuted to the rnnk of a hero, nnd success in nrmt~
eonsidered glorious without reference to the merits of the
,qunrrel. . · .
This filculty, lnrgc, gives the Jove of contention. Tlmtt
you find pcnsons who dispute every thing; they sny it is
tho Jovo of truth which instigates them, hut it is in renJity
tbc Jove of qnnrreling. It is rcportctl of a native of Aber·
«lecn, thut he wus liO contentious thnt when n friend met
him nnd snid "this is a fine clny, t~ir," he rt•plictl, "t\Jt mnu
who is fimling famlt with the clay." "'hen Combuth·cness
is lnrge and mulircctutl hy the mornl sentiments, it becomes
o greut disturber of domestic pence: the hours which
should be devoted to pure amt qnicl enjoyment nrc embit·
tercd by strifo and contradiction.
1'bis organ it is for the gratification of whieh the prize-
fights of England nrc ~•iacted. It is generally very large
in tbose who murder from sudden impulses, ns llnggnrt
and 1\lac Innes. It is usually more developed in mnn
than ln woman, but ~ometimcs it predominates in the ll\t·
ter, and gives her n hold, forwnrd air. It gives girls n ten-
dency to romp.. You see this orgnn very Iurge in the stntuc
of the ancient glndintor.
Those in whom it is Jnrge nre very pugnncious when in·
toxicated, thoqgh at other times they may restrnin the
propensity within proper bounds. Here is the skull of n
notive of one of the British Isles, where the people bave
the propentity so strong, thnt it is t~aid in song ' when
· one meets his friend he for love knocks him down.' In it
she orpa il.verrlargc. An Irish gentleman told me.that
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
COI\I R.\ TIVENE~P. 151
nt their fnirs it wns not unr.ommon for ono of:his countrymen
after becoming excited by whiskey, mul mmblc amy longrr
to repress his pngnucity, to rnnge nlong the booths tili ht'
could sec n head poking out somewhere, . when he wouhl
gi,·c it n blow which would bring out it~ owner in quick
time, then u regular fight would cn::·.re.-Contrnst this hcud
with thnt of the llindoo, in "·hom combnti\·cuess is ft.•cble
-what n difft!rcnce you perceh·e ! Bull-dog& ·nre nhmys
brond here, greyhounds nnrrow. 'Yhcn horses arc nnrrow
behind the cars they nre shy, when brond they nre bold ;
when brood here ;tnd lo"· in the forehead they nre ,·icious;
when brond here nnd high in the forchend, they nre both
b<\ld nnll good-nntnrcd.
In our int<'rcoursc with men the knowlrdgc of the motlc
in which this fllcuhy opcrntcs is most useful. Knowing thnt
such men constnntly t.lt•sirc to oppose, the bc!'t plan ill to stntc
your opinion or nrgumcnts us clcnrly ns possible, nml ifyour
ml':miug is perrcrtcd, your expressions <li~tortl•tl mul the
the question embarrassed by t'Xtrnueous mnttcr, to droll tlm
nrgument nnd lcm·c your opponent in quiet possct::ction of
the field. This will be to him n rcnl punishment nnd givo n
better chnnce for your views to ~inlt into his mind.
This orgnn is often diseased. Pinel says, "A mnuinc
naturally pcnceful nnd gentle in disposition, nppenred to lx-
in!!pired by the demon of mnlicc during the fit. lie was then
in nn uncensing1y mischievou!l ncth·ity; he locked up his:
compnuions in their cell~, provoked nnd struck tbem, nnd
at every word rniscd some new qunrrcl nnd fighiug." l hn,·c
before relnted n cnsc in which discnsed mnnifestntion was
nttendcd with pain in the orgnn.
'fhe nnturnl language of this propensity is to thro'"" the
hend bock\vnrd nnd to one side, ns in the attitude ofboxing;
the pninters hove noticed this. It gh·es n cutting expres-
sion to the lips, nud n hnrsh thumping sound to the voice ;
1\lodome de Stnelnoticed this in Napoleon, nnd remarked,
that when excited every word he uttered seemed to contain
J;9, ized by Coogle
COMBATIVENESS.
n Bhot. Boys who hove it lnrge, stand up boldly when fight·
ing, and look their adversary in the face. Those who hove it
~nnall rnrelyfight, nndwhen theydothey generally poke their
head as soon as possible to the brenst of the ndvcrsnry. It
hn1 been objected to this view of the nnturnl language, thut
men put themselves into the det~cribed attitude because it is
tl1e best position both for attuck ant.l defence. We reply
that boys who ore quite young instinctively assume this at·
titude without in ·the slightest degree considering its pro-
priety; and that this attitude is best is an inevitable con·
11equence of its being natural.*
• A elerieal friend banded me the following note, I iu!el11t entire.
CoMtitit in digitos extemplo nrrectus uterque,
Brach.iaque nd auperas interritus extulit nurns,
Abcluxcre retro Ionge cupita nrdua nb ictu ;
lmmisceotque manu. maoibus, pugnamque lacessuot.
.lEt~eid, B. V. wra 426.
" Both on tiptoe stnnd, nt fuJI extent;
Their arm• nlon, their bodies inly bent;
Their heads from aiming blows they bear afar,
With clashing gauutleu then provoke the war."
Dryden.
Tbia aeem• to me a pretty and nrycorrect illustration of the xalurnl
lllJI6rMige of" Combntivenea." As auch it maybe worth remembering.
It oecun in Virgil'• dacription of the encounter between Daru and
Efllellu. T. l. 8.
. .•.• '' • I :
o,J,zedbyGoogle
DE8Tl\UCTlT&N&8S. 1&3
LECTURE V.
6. DESTRUCTIVENBSS.
'fHIS organ is situated immediately above, extends a
little backward nnd forward from the external opening of
the ear, nnd gives to that pnrt breadth nnd elevation in pro- ·
portion to its size. In grnmiuivorous animals, only a small
portion of the brain lies behind the exterqnl opening of the
car; while in the carnivorous, n considerably larger mns::t
is t~itunted there. 'fhis is well shown by exhibiting the dif-
fereuce between this, the slmll of n young lion, and this, the
skull of a roebuck. '1 his is the skull of a fox; n sheep ;
a cot ; n dog ; a rabbit ; n savage baboon. . You notice
that those of the carnivorro arc· broadest just over the ear,
whereas those of the herbivorre nre broadest higher up and
have little brnin behind the ear. You notice too thnt the
former nrc all much broader in proportion to their size
. than the latter. By the difference in this part of the t~kull
alone, these two classes of nnimnls are readily distinguish~
able from each other.
Dr. Gall early noticed this, but drew no pnrticulnr con-
clul!lion from it, till one gentleman sent him the skull of n
parricide, nnd another the sl(ull of n highwayman, who,
not content with robbing, murdered his victims. On com-
paring these, he found them both very wide here. This
fact, in connection with his previous observations on ihu
Rl,ull~S of nnimnls, Jed him to conclude, that in this region
might be situated an organ which gl\·es the disposition to
kill. At first his mind rc~·oltcd at the iden; but finding,
on still further examination, that nature spoke unequivocal-
ly, he wns forced to believe her. This organ he called by
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
15t DK8TRUCTIVE1UBI.
a French name-instinct dll muertre-which signifies pro-
pensity to kill, but which was ignornntly translutcd into
Eoglitth by the word murder. This blunder was the cause
of infinite abuse of phrenology and Dr. Gall. Can it be
pot~sible, say declaimers, that God bas implanted such a
1,ropensity in the human mind 1 I .observe, in the first
),Jnce, that others besides phrenologists have acknowledged
ita existence. Lord Kaimea names it the "appetite for
lmnting." It baa been said, indeed,.that the pleasure of ·
hunting is in tho pursuit, and the consequent emulation;
but I have naked hunters whether, if some mnchine. could
l10 invented to Oy before them as the gnme now docs, they
\vould feel the same pleasure. The answer brut always
heen in the negative: some animal must sufFer, or little
t>lcnaure enaues.
· Poets ond nuthors who delinente humnn nature ore
fnmilior with thi15 feeling. Sir Wnlter Scott describes its
aabu&e ns u tlte ruffian tAirst for blood." The author of
Recollections of the Peoinsulu says, thnt not only soldiers,
hnt other~, "talk toil!& ·an umlcfinctl plrasure about tar- ·
nnge." 1 hnve met with youngmenof good mornl quulitit'&
in whom tl.re impulse wns restrained, but who confessed
that to smash and slny would give them great mouten-
tary gratification. In them the orgnu wns decidedly )urge.
Ucaides, in regnrding the scene of erentiun, we perceive
nil living beings destined to destruction ; mul this hns ever
hl'cn tho ense. The history ofthe enrth informs us thnt vnri·
ous rncca of nnimnls nnd vcgetnbles hnvc successively been
destroyed. 'l'ho works of nrt {lro suhjcct to the dctltroying
hnnd of time; man himself is destined to destruction.
)foreover, he bns · received a ~tomoch fitted to digest
animal food, nnd a bodily:system which such food is fitted
·to nourish nnd preserve. To gratify this nppetite, he must
. deprive animals of life by sudden destruction, as their flesh
II unwholeaome if they die of old nge or disenae, nnd oni·
mala ~t on deatruetion eurround ·him. To place him
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
DESTRUCTIVJ:HJ:SI. 156
on earth, therefore, without an orgnnizntion fitting him for
these circumstances of hi9 condition, would have been any
thing but indicative of supreme wisdom 'nnd beneficence.
Combativeness gives u11 courage to fhce danger nud to re-
sist nggression. Destructiveness gives us the df'sire and
dispot~ition to hurl destruction on the aggressor. 1'hose in
whom it is large take a kind ofpleasure in seeing scenes of
suffering, nt the sight of which those in whom it is small
would be agonized. Thus ·humane and even cultivated in·
divual11 experience pleasure in witnessing executions. They
would not put n man to denth, but if one is to be put to
death nt any rnte, they think it no hurm to look on nnd enjoy
the spectacle. It i11 nlways found large in· good opernting
surgeons: medicul gentlemen in whom it is small, thougb
posset~sccl of all the requisites of lmowleclge tutd skill, would
dislike-nny, would bn unable-to operntc. ,,.c sec, then,
that this orgnn is nbl!olutcly ncces:mry c\·cn to t•erftmn the
behests of Benevolence. I knew a clergymun who had
very smnll DestructiveneSf,nnd very large Benevolence,who
could not benr to sec n person blecl. His t~on wns taken
ill with iuflnmnuuion of the lungs: the physicinll wus sent
for, nnd procccdcll to bleed immediately, telling the fi\ther
that he should wunt his assistunce ; tho minhtter screwed
up his couruge, remnincd till the operation wus perforu1ed,
nncl then fuintecl nwuy.
· Comparu tho eizo of Destructiveness in Tardy tbtl pirate,
(1) with its size in the Cingaloso boy.(2) TWa organ is
1 I
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
168 DBITilUCTIVBNUio
alway• lor~ in cool nnd deliberate murderers, such os John
Bellingham, whose bend I now show you. He murder-
ed Perceval, the English Minister, i~ 1819, by deliberately
~hooting him in the lob_lly of the House of Commons.
In this the organ is very lnrge, it is the skull of the woman
Gottfried, who, though in eosy circumstances, murdered, in a
series of yenrs, both her pnrents, l1er cliildren, two husbands,
and six othe.r persons, by smnll doses of arsenic ; yet she
would stand by their dentb-bcds seemingly in on agony of
grief, but in renlity glonting over their protracted torments.
See the size ofthe orgun in the bend of llnre, who nssisted ·
Burke to murder sixteen persons for-the snke ofsclling their
bodies for dissection, and who, nfter his bloody deeds, slept
as undisturbedly as though he hod been merely killing a pig.
This is the head of ·o mnn. of llclfnst who murdered his
(other. The jury thnt tried him very properly returned, in
conformity with the evidct,ce, n verdict of in11nnity. lie
wns accordingly confined to nn nsylum, from which, after
same period of correct conduct, he mode his escnpe nnd
proceeded to Liverpool, where, for a deed ofviolence, he was
immediately nrrestcd, and after trinl transported to New
South Wales. I expect thnt the next we shnll henr obout
him will be, thnt he hns there committed some drendful deed.
Contrnst theso skulls with thnt of tho llindoo. Ilow
smnll this orgo,n is in them in comparison ; ond yet it is of
its nvernge size in these people. The Hindnos nrc notori-
ous, for tlu)ir dislike of putting nnimnls to dcnth.* In some
pnrts, indeed, they hnvc hospitnls fi•r the reception and
mainton.nnco of sick ntul ngcd nnimolt~. Here ill the hend
of a Flnt-hei)d Indinn; seo how Jnrge in this region! Here
ie one or n Charib, which is still more developed. In these
hemdayou will notice thnt large Destructiveness it~ combined
with amnU reftuctive and mornl faculties. Its lnrge size, in
1 uJfa ID&D killa a fiab, the magiatrate mall fine himteD pnDI ofCOW•
n.."-,.Ita man kilt. au inaect the magiatrate aball &oe bim one paD of
Ctwri&"-Gt~&oo Law1, trallllatecl by Halbed. C.J:Yi, Sec. iii.
o; tized 'YGoogle .
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 157
proper combination, is quite compntible with high mornl
character. Here,for exnmple;is the h!!nd ofCnptnin Purry,
in whom it is lnrge, but in whom the intellcctunl fucultie"
nnd mornl sentiments prepondernte. It is huge, too, in
Spurzheim, yet he wns nn uminble philosopher.
Satire is n combination of this fhculty with wit. It must
hnve been Jnrge in Byron. It gives point, too, to thnt snr·
cnstic, cutting speech, which·ill so unplensunt to those who
are the subjects of it. Some swear with n henrtine$:J which
others cnnuot jmitnte. Destructiveness gin~s t\ force nml
energy to their imprecntions which those who think swenr:-
ing mnnly, but whose Destructiveness is smnll, vninly ~;tri,·e
to imitnte ; there is n softncs!ll, n roundness nbout their ian·
prccntions which completely destroys the effect. In Pnr·
liamcnt, we find some inen with Destructiveness nnd Lnn·
gunge very lnrgc; nnd whose speeches nrc complete tor-
rents of invective-often of nothing else. Yet nftcr such a
speech, tho newspnpcrs nrc full oflnudatory rcm:uks: "such
energy!" " such torrents of invective!" " such withering
11arcasm!" For my own part, I no more admire Destruc·
tivcness manifested in this way, thnn when manifested by
blows. ·
'Vith due reverence, I must be nllowed' to sny that I hn\'O
noticed preachers in whom this orgnn is very lnrgo dwell
principally on " the worm thnt ne,·cr diet~, and the fire thnt
is never quenched." They mistnl\c, it seems to me, the
rer,·ours of Destructivenesll, for the inspirntions of mornl
eloquence, und, while they grntiry the steru, they hnrrow up
th~: feelings ofthe muinblc nncllinsccptiblc. Phrenology will
be very scrviccnblc by tenching·men the secret fountains of
their emotions, and thnt what is grntifying to them ia not
necessarily edifying to others.
Those in whom this orgnn is smnll nre often deficient in.
proper indignation. A community of such men would be
f
a prey to the profligate nnd unprincipled. Contumely and
1"ft"cring would inevitnbly be their portion. If aggreaaora
14
Dig' ized by GoogIe
ISS DI!!S~RUCTIVENE~S.
·•i•it a community in whom exists n proper endowment of
tbis faculty, destruction is ·burled upon their heads, and
othen are kept aloof by the terror which such a mauifestn-
tion of the fe.eling inspires.
Great size of this·orgnn and Comhntivcucss ins}lires men
with delight in b'attles. or this we nshort time ~go hnd nn
example in the Un.itcd Stntcs; the Doundury Question
was agitated, ond every mouth breathed wnr. The excitc-
Dle.nt hu passed oway, and many are astonished now, na I
wall then, al the violence of their emotions. Phrenology
~ indicates the source of our feelings, and ~bows us that the
,-- propensities ought .never 'to oct as the controllers but mere-
ly as the servants of reason and the higher sentiments. I
met in Ediuburgh n young American who amid that the
United States equalled amy Europcnn nation in every thing
excepting military glory, and thnt n great wnr, which would
afford them an opportunity for acquiring it, would be a am-
tionnl blessing. I told him that his organs of Combative-
litiS and Destructiveness were lnrgc, nod that ho wns mert'·
Jy mistaking the impulses of his own propensities for the
Wil'hcs and interests of his nation.•
·Wlu~n pestructiveuess is excited by disease, there is au
exalted moaiifestotion of its function, and a disposition to
burn, kill and destroy. Violence or murder may be commit-
ted, cmd we may hong the person on account of his malady.
A anan in n village in Scotlnnd wn!l observed to enter a cot·
toge and presently to come out nnd walk deliberately away.
• The activity or Deatructivcneas ia very evident in the rollowing nar·
rative·or Adanson. It \Vhat lltrnck me DlO!!t W8!! the shooting or moD·
keyt, which I njoyed • • • I do not think there ever wns heUtr tporC • •
NothiD1 could be mol'l! entcrt~ai•ing when aevern\ of them jumped to·
· 1otber onthe 111mobough, thnn to ace it bond under them, and the hinder·
IDOil to drop down onthe ground; while the rest got further on, and other~~
were .UU 1111pended in the air. While this game w31 going on, I con·
·tinned to aboot atthem, and thongh I killed710 luJt1waallreHII4.,_,itt
,_... --..,.,and withib the apace or twentJ CathoiDI, yet DOt one
.r.lbeal ICI'OeCbed lbe whole time.•• p. 316. . .
Digitized by Coogle
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 159
He wns thought to ben betrgnr, nnd no furt.her notice wns
taken of the circumstance till nn hour or two nfterwnrd,
when a neighbour entered and ·fimnd the old woman '\\·ho
resided there lying on the floor, with her skull cleft in two
by means of n spnde. It i11 an important fnct thnt not the
~lightt~st article hnd bt•cn stolen. 'l'he man wm• pur:;ued,
taken, and brought to trial. The evidence wns such thnt
no doubt remained on my mind that the pri!oner was t\
monomani~Jc. I mentioned this to 1\lr. C., the Solicitor
Genernl for the crown, a very worthy nod amiable mnn,
but he could not understand the force of my ·representa-
tions. A petition was sent to the cro\\·n that the mnn might
be confined in n mnd·house insteod of being hanged, but
the petition wns refused. The dny before that appointed
for hi:1 execution, 1\1r. C. nsked.me if I still considered the
man insn.ne. I replied, "Certainly I do." At 4 o'clock
in the morning of the dny on which he wns to be exeeu-
ted, he sent for the 1\lnyor of tho City for the purpose of
maldng some important confession$. The 1\[nyor went to
hi~ ct>ll, when the mnn commcncetl the rl'lntion of n wholo
list of atrocious tmmlcrs. lie snitl he hntl killetl n child ut
sul!h n time in such n street of Edinburgh-a man nt such
nnother place-nod so he kept on, enumerating six or
~ight murders, in the most circumstantial manner. The
Mnyor sent for the Superintendent of the Police nnd related
the mnn's confessions, nsking him if they could be true.
The Superintendent snid it wns impos$ible, no such mur-
ders hnd ever been hcnrd of. They were then convinced
that the mnn wa~ stnring nnd glaringly mnd ; but nt thnt
time no person in Scotland had power to stny the execution,
so the poor maniac wns tnkcn out nt 8 o'clock tho same
morning nnd hanged. I met 1\lr. C. some time afterward,
nnd nlllu~d him whnt he then thought of the cnse• . " The
filet is,n snid he," it wns nn ugly business, and the Jess thnt
is said about it the better " Dut if by relating the circum-
~tunces I can draw attention to the subject nnd prevent re·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
·.160 DZSTRU:CTIVBNBSio
petition& of euch manifest wrong, the relation will be ser-
Yiceable. Like cases are very num·crous in the annals of
criminal jurisprudence.
Some say, Granting that a man is mad, if he be inclined
to commit murder, he is best out of the way. But madness
ia a disease ; and it would be quite as just and humane to
hang a mnn for having the yellow fever, becnuse he wns
liable to infect bis neighbours. Besides, it makes a vast
difference to a man's family whether he be hanged or con-
. fined as o lunatic. The hltter mny be borne with resigna-
tion, but the former overwhelms with n feeling ofmortificn-
tion nnd a sense of infamy. Justice, then, not only to ·the
maniac, but to hi• relatives and frie~ds, demands that we
should be careful in our judgment£~. And let no man trent
this subject as one which does not concern him. None of
us know but thnt ourselves or some member of our fnmilie£~,
or some one in the Jist of our friends. and Msociates, may
10011 be affected in like manner.
Individunl.s who c9mmit murder or set fire to property
without rational motive, often nscribe their actions to the
temptation of the devil ; they soy that be never censes to
whisper hl their enrs exhortations to mischief. Disen£~ed
activity of tl1is orgnn, filling the mind with the desire to
destroy, probably gives rise to such impressions•
.Destructiveness is tho great fonutain of pnssion ; its nntu•
rallongunge is to give a sort ofwriggling motion to the head,
like that. of n dog in the net of worrying. The foot is
stamped, the .face wears a scowling expression, and the
body is drawn up towards the bend. In Dr. Chalmers it is
large; and when operative in his speeches, he clinches
eTery thing with a blow: 'Vhen preaching against sin, it
seems 1111 though he were .endeavouring to pound it out of
mankind. ln this drawing,by a very able artist who pro-
' proses Tisi(ing this country, 1\lons. Edouart, you see it
Rtrongly manifested in a scene of matrimonial strife: the
\voman ia daring her husband, and he stands with his bend
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
j
ALIHENTIVEN£88. 161
bent forward, his fists clenched, but retracted, l1is counte·
nance peculiarly expressive of the power which he has to
exercise,in order to prevent passion from boiling over and
relieving itself by blows. If~ in friendly converse with a
person in whom this orgnn is large nnd SecrctivcnE-11S smnll,
one happens to touch on some irritating topic, in nn instant
the softness of Benevolence, nnd the CC>nrtesy of J4ove of
Approbation, ore gone, nnd the hoar!le gro\vl ofDestructive-
net~s ushers in a storm.
6.a ALillENTIVENEss.
That the appetite for food is an instinct not re(ernblc to
nny of the recognized fi•culties of the mind early occurred
to Gall : but neither he nor Spurzheim discovered its situa-
tion. Observations mode by various individuals have proved
that there is in man an orgnn of appetite for food, t~ituated in
the zygomatic fossa.
The stomnch is to this orgnn whnt the eye is to the sense
of seeing. Cut off the commnnicntion between it and the
brnin and the appetite will be lost. A dog wns kept \vith·
out food, till he was ravenous with hunger;. the pneumo--
gastric nerve was then divided, nnd the sensntion left him
nt oncl'. A number of cnses hnve occurred, in which n.
gluttonous nppetitc existed during life, nnd these convoha-
tioniJ were found, nftcr dcnth, ulcerated. Dr. Coldwell
thinks the burning desire of the drunkard to aril!e from
discnse of this orgnn, nnd recommends it to be trented with
bleeding, cold wnter, quiet, nnd attention to diet.
That this is the organ of Alimentiveness has been con·
firmed hy Vimont, nnd since coming to this country I have
seen two strong proofs of it in the collection of Dr. Morton
of PhiladeJphin. One the skull of n Dutch Admiral, who
died at Java in const>quence of excessive eating, in which
the organ is very much developed, but it is still larger in
in this, the skull of n convict of New South Wales, who
14•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
I«m LO'YE OB LIP£.
inviegled seven people into the woodtt, at various time!!,
murdered and ate them.
In tho Annals of Physiological 1\ledieine, an account is
given of a girl who from infancy exhausted the milk of all
her nunea nnd ote.four times os much as other children.
At the Saltpetri~re she ate eight or ten pounds of hrend
cloily as lu~r ordinary quantity; but she hod fits of hunger,
two or three times a mouth, during which she devoured
twenty-four pounds of bread. She went one day into the
kitchen of a rich family where a dinner party was expected,
and devoured the soup prepared for twenty gul'sts, together
with eight pounds ofbrend ! On another oeension·she drank
all the coft'ee prepared "cor seventy-five of her companions
in the Snhpetri~rc ! Her skull is snid to be small, but the
propensities predominate, and Alimeutiveness is largely de-
't'cloped.. l\fnny similar instances nrc recorded by medical
· writers. · In the!lc eases the food passes undigested. You
mny generally tcJl those in whom this organ is large by the
interest they .take in the tnble. This orgnn has been
marked as probable, but I now consider it estnblished.
6.b LoVE oF LIFE.
Thnt this feel,ng is manifested in dift'erent degrees by dif·
terent individuals id cert.nin, the brnvcst men being some·
times excessively attached to Jife, while the most timid are
ot\cn indift'ereut to death. I knew a gentleman of superior
talents, but not remnrknbly happy, who declared that his
attachment to life was such, thnt he would rather Jive in tor·
inent for ever than suft'er tlDnihilntion. Another, who wns
present, and o more fortunate man, said he could not con·
ceive the feeling which would lead to such nn expression.
Dr. Combe hod a patient who·showed extraordinary anxiety
about death. In her he found on enormous development
of one convolution, at the base of the middle lobe of the
brain, and the skull showed a corresponding very deep and
diltinct11 moulded cavity• .From the situation of the con
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
•
SECRI;TIVENESS. 163
Tolution its development cannot be ascertained during life.
In the llindoos carelessness about the continuance of life
is wonderful. Jf fatigued on a march, they ask no grentec
boon than to be allowed to lie down and repose, with every
chance of being devoured by thu wild beasts, or of being
overtaken and 11lnin by the pursuing enemy. Tbat specie•
of hypoclwndria which consists in morbid fear of death, is
probably produced by a disease of this organ and Cautious-
ness. Love of life is strongly manifested in the scene be-
tween Rob Roy's wife and Morrison.
7. SECRETIVENESS.
This orgnn is situated exactly in the centre ofthe lateral
part ofthe crnnium, und lies immediately abo\·e Destructive-
ness. Dr.· Gull, in early youth, was struck with the char-
acter nnd form of the head of one of his companions, who
wns distinguished for cunning and finesse. Although a
staunch friend, he experienced grent pleasure in deceh·ing ·
his school-fellows ; his natural lang-uage wns absolutely
expres:!ivc of cunning, and such as we see in cats and dogs
when in playing they want to give each other the slip. · At
a subsequent period Gall became acquainted with another
who was not only cunning but perfidious, and his temples
swelled out in the same manner. ..:\t Viennn he became
acquainted with a physician ha,·ing a similar develop·
ment who often told Gall that he knew no pleasure equnl ·
to thnt of dcceh•ing ; he carried his tricks so fnr thnt the
Government warned the public, through the medium ofthe
public prit!ts, to beware of him. From these facts Gall
concluded thnt there is in the lntman mind, n primitive ten-
. dcncy toward cunning, nnd that its organ is situated in the
region before describt!d. By a great number ofobl!ervations
this conjecture was fully confirm~d. ·
The vnrious faculties of the mind nre liable to involuntary
activity frorn internal cnuset~, ns well as from externnl eJ:·
citement. Acquisitiveness inspires with strong desire for
Digitized by Google
164 I&CRETI'fBNE88.
wealth, Langunge for utterance, Tn.nc for music. Jf ouh'rnrd
expreesion ·wcro given to tlwso feelings ns they nrhtc, tmeial
intercouree would bo.di:1figm:cd with n rude assemblage of
gross or ridiculous improprieties. There needs ~omc e\ter-
prompting feeling to curb iheso instinctive impulse!l, until
the judgment slmll decide upon the propriety of uttclroncc,
·This curb is~tupplied by Sycrctivenel'£1.
Secretiveness is nn essential ingredient in n prutlent chnr-
. octcr; it serves ns n .rcstrnint ••pcm ourselves nnd n shicltl
ngninst tho prying curiosity of others. ' When Nnpolcon,'
snye Sir 'Vaalter Scott, ' thought. himself closely observed,
he hod the power of dischnrging from his countennnco oil
expression s•1ve thnt of nn indefinite smile, nnd presenting
to the curion11 invcstigntor tho fixed eyes nnd rigicl fenturea
of n mnrblo bust.' 'A fi•ol1' snys Solomon "nttcr-t'tla nil his
mind ; but n wiso mrm kt•«'pc~th it tillnl'tl!rwnrcl." Scull's
character of Louis XI in Qucutinl>urwnrd is n fine clclinen·
tion of the ,,rcdominoncc ofthis feeling. "Jlo wn:1," snys
ltc, "cnlm, crnt'ty, nud profcmnclly uttentivc to hilt own in-
terest. llo WllS cnrcfnl in disguit4ing hiR reul sentiments
nnd pnrpottcs from nil who npproached him, nnd frequently
nscd tho CJprcs.sions, thnt the kin~ ltncw not how to reign
who knew not bow to dissemble;' mul that ' for himself, if
he thought his very cnp knew his secrete, he would throw
it into the fire.' Like nil nstutions persons he ·wns ns de- 1
1·eiroua of looking into the secrets of others ns of conceuling
J his own."
'thoso who hnve Secretiveness very Jnrge, look upon lit~
as ono grent strntogem, and upon cunning ns wisdom.
Pope, nccording to Lndy 1\lontngne, plnyed the diplomatist
about eabbngtt and turnip•; nnd Johnson snys of him that
he hnrdly clrnuk teo without n strutngem. I ltnew n gentle·
1nun, a resident of a Tillage we11t of Edinburgh, in whom it
was Yery large, nnd who \Va£1 so desirous of doing every
thingsecretly, thnt when he hnd to go to Edinburgh he would
wnlk west out of the Yillage, without coat, and by a turn
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
SECRt-:TIVENESS. 165
come round to the _
Edinburgh rond, where a person '"·maid
be wniting with the nbscnt pnrt of his clothing. He thus
went to Etlinburgh without nny of the villagers knowiug,
nnd, I suppose, without nny of them caring. It is said thnt
n ~ailor lived next door with equal sccretivenc$6. lie long
wished to know how this tailor passed his time, but could
not learn till one night he fixed· n lndder, got to the top of
the house, removed two or three tiles, and saw him nt work
in his gnrret.
Sccrcth·cncss is lnrge in the English, who scclndo tht•m-
~dvet~, surround their houses and gardens with l•igh
walls, nnd are reserved nbout their history or ntfairs. It is
~mull in the French, who nre very communicntivc, nud pass
mot~t of their lh·cs in public. "'hen Secretiveness is lnrge,
jninetl tn ~mnll Cunsdcntiou!lnCSi11 it prompts to lying;
jninctltn lnrgo Acqui~ith''l'lll':i!l1 it prompt!' to stca\ling. l\lcr-
rhrmts in whom it prctlominntt•s, nml whose circmnstnnccs
:"lr,! c1t•clining, frccp•cutly conccnl their ditlicultics from thdr
tiunily till banlmtptcy bnr!lts upon them lilto an explut~iou.
Th«'y then }llcndns nn excuse for their conduct n rcgnrll for
. .. .
tlu~ fl'ding~ of their rdt\tivcs, but the rcnl springs of their
cnntluct nrc overweening Self-esteem, which hates to
acknowledge misconduct or misfortune, nnd inordinato
~t·m·etiveness, which is instinctively averse from cnudid
communicntion.
llnmour is n combination of 'Vit and Secretiveness.
Hence tho l~nglish nntl Itnlinns, in whom this orgnn is lnrge,
arc very futul ofit. 'l'hc Frt~nch, in whom it i$ smnll, think
humour butfoon~ry, nnd cannot npprt!cinte it. Secrcth·e-
ucss gives nuthors the power of hiding. tho plot tili its de·
nouement; its size in Ln Fontuinc is enormous. It is
lnrge in nrtists nnd nctors, nnd cnnhlcs tho latter to conccru
their rent chnrncters nnd pnt forth the nnturnl lnngunge of
the nssumed one ; without this the words might be repented,
hnt they would not be charged with the required feeling.
This is the head of Ann Ross, in whom, os you ~ee,
o,9,•izec by Coogle
.,
166 ACQUI!IITIVENESS.
\ .
'
Secretiven~111 ·and· Finnncss nre very grently developed.
She practised various decet>tions for the purpose of exciting
sympathy nnd obtaining relief; but her impositions being
discovered she wns discorded.· She wns shortly nfterwnrd
admitted intp Richmond llospitnl with her wrist severely
ulcerated. :Mr. ltichnrd Cnrmichncl nnd others nttcndl•tl
hor, but no romc.tlanl couratO .-ecmcd to no·onl rl·licf. At
length the dis.cnso. became so bnJ tbnt amtmtntion wns
proposed nnd submitted to without flinching. On t~xnmin·
ing tl1o arm nt\crwnrd it wns found f11ll of. ncct\lc!l which
abo hnd purposely _
_tuck thcro. It is tmid dlflt she np}lcnrcll
much more mortified at tho discovery of·the trick tbnn
nftlicted by tho loss of her nrm. They did not inform her
of the discovery till after she hnd recovered, nnd when they
. did, it struck.her to the. ground. I sow ht!r after the nmpu·
tation had been performed.
· The nnturn) language Qf Secretiveness is a furtiveness
of look, n sot\ mnnner of speech, from SU}lpresl!lion of other
faculties or propensities, a close mouth, nnd eye11 pnrtly
closed, lenving ns amnii n chink ns post:ihlc, ennbling the
owner to look out but preventing tho world from looking in.
llcre is a ,French drawing cnlled 'Ilut~h :' the mouth is
abut nnd the finger upon the lip, but tbe designer, being ig·
nornnt of naturn) language, has left the eyes wide open•
Nu.ture never ·makes such mistakes. Observe tbe portrait
of FoncM, Nnpolcon's Minister of Police, with his firmly
closed lipa nnd hnlf shut eyes. ·
8. AcQUISITIVENEss.
Turs organ · · · ·
Ill 11tunted above the fore pnrt of Secreuve•
ness, reaching h ·
k ' O\Vcver, further forwnrd. To prevent mts·
tnC es ~or in tnind thnt it is bnckward and downwnrd from
auaahty. ·
h
. ·Lob'' 8 • 0.r Property, eny the metnphyaicians, is merely a
n at ongmnti · · 1 rd
· L ng an t 1e love of enjoyment nnd at\erwa
traneaourred b• 0 • . ' • h
· " •soesauon to tho meant of procunng t e
Digitized by GoogIe
ACQUISITJVBNF.SS. 167
enjoyment-which is ns rntinnal ns to sny thnt n man's lore
of a. good dinner hecomett, by long intlulgcuce, Ion~ of a
knife nnd fork. Lorll 1\.nimcs, howc\·cr, who wrote from
.observation, recognises this faculty. ' i\lau,' says he,' is n
Aoarding a11imal, lmving nn appetite fi1r storing "ll thin~
of usc.' Gnll tlisco\·ca·ctl it by compnriug the hcnd:~ of the
pcnsnnts, whom ho ust•tl to iu,·itc tu his hou$c1 ant\ who
n.
mdo .him their confitlnnt. n~ fomul some notorinus for
pct~y lnrccni~s, nnll protu.l of thdr superior SntJior-fairt-
othcr:~. who w.ould rntlwr stnrvc tlmn c\'cn pnrtukc of whnt
their companions hnd t~toJcn: in the first be noticed this
part of the hend tu be much dc,·clopcd-iu the lt\st, to be
compnrntivcly smnll.
There nro mnny periods of lifo in which wo cnnnot Ia..
hour,·as siclmess nnd oJU ogc. Now, if wo wea·c content
.with satisfying our present wants, whnt would become of
us in the time of need t . Tbis fuculty prompts us to nc.cu·
mulntc, to store our surpha11.
This is the skull of Turlly, the notorious pirntc. You
sec this orgnn iuunenscly dcn~loped. 1'his is tho hcnd of
llcnmnn, executed nt Edinburgh for piracy mul murder.
You perceive n grent de\·clopmcnt of this organ. lie snw
n number of d·ollnrs put on ·bonrd the ship in which be
t-ailed ; they excited his cupitlity and hnunted his imnginn·
tion so much, thnt lu.• di<l not rest until he hod persuaded
his sbip-mntes to nssi~t him to toke posses~ion of the vessel.
They did so, but were unable to mnnagc it, nnd consequent·
ly it ran ashore on the const of Scotlond, and they were.im·
mediately arrested. Owing to its Jnrge size in notorious
robbers it hus been called the organ of theft. This is just
ns nppropriate as to call the stomach the organ ofgluttony.
1'hic\·iug is a mnnifest nbuse of n propenllity obviously
gh·cn for wise nod benevolt•nt purposes.
You bn,·e nil henrd of Robert 0\Vcn. Thnt gentleman
mnintnins that the institution of private property is wrong.
Now, in his head this organ is very small, and benevolence
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
168 ACQOI81TIV.ENB88o
lnrge. And he bas expended R property of £90,000 ster·
ling, or between $400,000 and $500,000, in attempting to
cnrry out his achcmcs of benevolence.
Wb~n Acquisitiveness nn.d Benevolence ore both Jnrge,
the individtml wiJ) show hi!J l~indncss by personal exertions,
by gi~ing udvice, by imp.orting the results of experience,
rather than by giving money. lie mny acquire, however,
for the very purpose of giving, and hrwe n hnnd open os
day to melting charity.
Acquisitiveness is large in the Anglo-Snxon race, nnd
thia accounts for the enger pursuit and vnst occumulntion
oC' wenlth for which it is dit~tinguished.; we sec around us
overwhelming evidence of its activity. For untold nget~
thia vast country was inhnbitcd by lndians,-and n few
personal ornaments and wnr instruments were almost the
.·whole extent of their accumulotions-thc llritish rncc ap·
·j.eared-nnd cities rose, and ·roods were constructed, ond
the comforts, conveniencies nnd elegancies of life \Vere
gathered, where the wild beasts hod been cbnsed by men
... almost as wild.
This propensity tokes its·direction from the other facul-
ties. Combine~ with Destructiveness, it leads to crimes
of violence for·gaio; combined with Secretiveness, it indu-
ces crimefll of fraud; combinctl with Iorge Identity, Con-
structiveness, nnd Form, it stimulates to collections in
works of art, as pointing, nnd statuary ; with lnrge Even-
tuality, to collections of books, especially of history, me-
moin and travels; with Iorge Individuality, to collections
of shells, insects nnd other 11pecimens of noturul history ;
wi~ Veneration large, to the collection of antiques ; com-
bined with large Self-esteem, it product's a dhzposition to
acquire and board; eombincd with lnrge Love of Approba-
tion,it lends to admiration ofthe rich nnd if Conscientious-
. . ' '
ness and Benevolence be deficient, to contempt of the poor.
Acquisitiveness is small in the skulls of the Charibe,
who nover manifested nny propensity to theft, aod who
Digitized by Google
ACQUIIlTIVKNKIIIo 169
always insisted, snys Rochester, in his History of the An·
tilles, when robbed, thnt the crime wns committed by a
Christian. It is Jnrge in the 1\.nlmucks, who ore incorrigible
thieves. Dr. Spurzhcim tells us that a young 1\.nlmuck
brought to Viennn by Count Stuhrcnberg become melan·
choly beenuse his confessor l~ud forbidden him to atcnJ.
Seeing this he wns permitted to do so on condition that he
should give bnek whnt he had stolen. The young mnn
profited by this permission, stole tho confessor's watch
during high moss, but joyfully returned it when mass wa.
over.
Acquisitiveness when predominant is never satisfied. hs
plensure consists in ncquiring-nnd this explains a puzzle
in bumnn nature which bas attracted much attention.
lien, on retiring from business, instead of finding that re-
pose which they sought, thnt comfort nnd enjoyment toward
which they bnd long looked forward with glowing antieipa·
tion, ore rcstles11 and dit~sntisfied. 1\lan's bnppiness consists
in the activity of his faculties ; and when this organ is large
4the other organs become hnbitunted to work with · lt in as-
'J!Iocinted activity. Tnken away from the business which
has oonstituted tbe dnily stimulus of mind, there is a era·
viug whiclt nothing in retirement cnn sntisfy. But when
the mornl and intellectual faculties predominate, the indi·
vidual cnn glide easily and pleasantly from business to pri·
vate life.
Sometimes this organ is so lnrge thnt individuals in good
circumstances give wny to the temptation to steal. A bar-
rister of Edinburgh was convicted of stealing books-nod
similar eases ore on the records of nil courts. A gentleman
in good circumstances always pocketed, if possible, t!ome
"ilver l'poons when he dined out. He \vns at last detected
by the handle of a soup-ladle peeping out of his pocket.
This organ becomes disordered. Esquirol mentions a
Knight of 1\lalta who became addicted to theft in conse-
quence ofdisease, and who not unfrequently refreshed him·
16
170 .&OQ11JUTIT&NB81.
Mil in coft'ee houses, but instead of paying, put the cup,
~&ueer and spoon in his pocket and walked a\Yay. Acrel
mentions .a young man who manifested on irresistible pro-
pensity to steal, after receiving a wound in the temple.
.. 'fbe organ is found in animals, nod they have notions
· of private property. After a winter's absence, the stork
will return .to the some steeple, the swallow to the same
roof, and the nightingale to the some nest which they before
occupied. Vimont remarks that it is generally large in the
fox, ourang-outang and cat. He mentions two eats, in
one of which it was smnll, and in. the other large ; the first
would not steal except when very hungry ; the other would
- do so on all occasions. He once gorged it with as much
fish aa it would eat, and then left it in the room where a
piece ofYeal was on the table: and coming in shortly after,
be found that the cat had stolen it. ·
It il: difficult to describe the natural language of this fa·
eulty ; but after once seeing it well manifested it is not soon
forgotten; when predominant it gives n lean, hungry, mean
Aspect, and, when combined with Secretiveness, a one·
aided, creeping, sneaking look, half-shut eyes and closed
mout.
h. To use a common expression, such a man seems
u it he could ~kin a flint. His hands often go out at the
•ide u if bent upon grasping something. ·
' I • ·. :! .
.
. . . .., :· :
: .
' .
. . ·' ,. .
. o; tized 'YGoogle
,___
CONITJLVOTIV&MUS. 171'
LECTURE VL
9. CoNSTRUCTIVENEss.
Turs organ is situated at that part of the frontal bone
which lies behind and above the superior ond outer angle
of the eye, immediately above the sphenoido-temporal su-
ture, and before Acquisitiveness. In the brain it occupies
the posterior part ofthe anterior lobe. Dr. Gall discovered
itby noticing that men distinguished for mechanical genius
are very wide in this· region. After this discovery some
gentlemen ofYienna pre11ented to him a person concerning
whos~ talents they solicited his opinion. He told them that
lac ought to have n great tendency townrd mechanics.
They then told GnU that he had been examining the fa-
mous painter, Unterhergen, and expresHed dissatisfaction
at the decision ; but the painter acknowledged that the
Doctor was correct~thnt he had always had a passion for
mechanics, and that he painted only for a Jivelihood. He
also took the party to his house, where he sho,ved them
many machines nnd instruments, some ofwhich he hnd in- ·
vented and others improved. Besides, Constructiveness i~
an clement in the art of painting.
Dr. Bnrclny used to exhibit to his pupils the skulls ofthe
lion nnd other carnivorous animals, and ridicule the Phre-
nologists for ascribing the narrowness ofthis region in those
animals to their deficiency in Constructiveness. "The
lion, gentlemen," he would say," has very strong temporal
· muscles, for the purpose of empowering its jaws to masti-
cate ftesh and bones : now it is evident that the play ofthese
muscles compresses the head in this region, and causes this
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
req~arkabl~ narrowness." Tbls seems plausible, but had
the Professor carried hi1 observations fnr enough, he would
have found that tbe form of bend alluded to occurs in the
fa:.tu of enr~ivorous animals, nnd cannot, therefore, be the
eft"ect ofthe action of their juws 0.11 hurd substauces. Fur-
ther, the beaver eats through pretty strong logs of timber
with its teeth, nod its temporul mut~cles are strong, yet the
bend is very broad in this region a& you may t~ee in this
skull, and on putting my finger within, I find n hollow cor·
responding with the external protuberance.
The temporal muscle covers this organ and part of Ac-
quisitiveness, .and differs in thickness in different persons.
It ia therefore necessary to estimnte it11 thickness in the liv-
ing bead, by feeling at the muscle while the individual
move• his lower jaw ns in biting.
To construct, means to put detached materials together
10 lUI to make a single object. This fuculty, however,
seems to be a tendency to ja&hion in gcnerol, which may be
done by putting materinlt~ together, or by chipping off frag-
ments, or by moulding, or by drawing lines and laying on
colour~. It does not invent·: .but merely fashions or con-
figurates, Shough when lnrge it stimulates the understand-
ing to inno~ what will employ it agreeably in constructing.
It tokes its direction from the other faculties. Combined
with large Weight, it leads to machine-mnking; with
Ideality nnd Forp~, to statuary; with these and Colour, to
pointing.
Compnre these hcnds: in this ofFrnnklin, it is small; in
this, ofCanova, very large. The development i~t very smnll,
as you see, in the New-IIollnndcrs, and ofall mankind they
.are the lenst constructive. 'Vhen .visited by Capt. Cook,
they were naked, built no houses, and hau no implements
of ogriculture, fishing or hunting. They were destitute, in
ehort, ofevery art which cnn odd comfort or decency to life,
depending for a sub~istenee on spontnneous vegetation, and
the 6ehe1 which are left by t}le tide among the rocks. Com•
o; tized 'YGoogle
OON8TRVCTtYBNE8~ 173
[1] Ancient Gr-uk. [2] NtM Hollander.
pare it with this of nn ancient Greek [1] or with tbis of nn.
Itnlinn: the difference in favour of the latter is enormous!
This Italian skull known to be nt least two hundred year!'
old, wns supposed to be thnt of Raphael, nnd was presen·cd
ns such ira St. Luke's Academy at Rome; but as Rnphael's
skull has been recently discovered, objectors sny that this
mistnke refutes phrenology. All thnt they can mnke of the
case,·however, is, that it did not belong to Raphael, but M
they cannot tell to whom it belonged, they cannot specify
whnt talents or disposition its owner possessed. We see
ht>re large organs of Amativeness, Constructiveness, Imita-
tion, nnd Ideality r faculties by which Raphael was distin-
guished. If the objectors could show that the real owner
of the skull did not manifest these faculties, this would be a
fhct ngninst Phrenology; but while his character is un-
known, the skull is merely a specimen of the development
of particular orgnns and affords no evidence either for or
against Phrenology. Compare the bend of Napoleon, in
whom Con$tructiveness wn11 small, with the hend ofBrunei,
the celebrated engineer of the Thames Tunnel, and the in-
\'cntor ofmachinery for making blocks by means ofsteam for
the rigging of ships. Here is the head of Sir 'Vm. Her-
schell, in whom it is very large, and the construction of n
superior telescope was the principal foundation of his fame.
This organ is.of great service to operntive surgeons, en-
gravers, cabinet makers, tailors and dress-makers. We
find some men who for want of it cannot mend a pen nor
IS• ·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CONIITilUOTITBNJ:IIII.
shnrpcn a razor.• You perceive it smnll in the Rev. Mr
)fortin, who wns bred n wntch-mnker, but taking no interet~t
in the employment, he gnve it UJ, nnd -turned preacher.
Lucinn nnd Socrates renounced sculpture for the snme ren-
ton. On the other hnnd, we often fi1ul men whom circum-
stnncet hnve prevented from following their untural incJi.
notion, nnd whose occut,ntions c.lo .not lend them to its cxcr·
ei11e, occupying themselves with mcehnuics ns n pastime
and nmuRemcnt. An eminent Scotch barrister told me
thnt in the very net of composing n plending on the most
abstruse questioniJ of law, vivid conceptions of mechnnicul
improvements woultl dart into his mind, tUul thnt he often
hod to lenve his emJlloymcnt to embody them inn dingrnm in
order to get rid of the intruder$, or " lny the devil," ns he
said. Leopold I., Peter the Grent, and Louill XVI con· ·
atructcd locks. Tho lllto Lord President llltlir, in whom
· this orgnn wns huge, bnd n private workshop in which he
constructed piecn of mechnnism.
Constructiveness ia sometimes lnrgc when Intellect is
deficient. 'l'hus, some of the cretins of Switzerland nrc
employed in mnking watches. Dr. Rush mentions two
cnaea in which a tnlent for Design hnd unfolded itself
during a fit'of insanity ; nnd be adds, thnt there is no in-
sane hospitnl in which examples are not found, of construe·
tiTe talent.suddenly developing itself in certain pntients in
their insane condition. .
·The ~nturallnugunge of this or.gnn is to tt~rn the bend
aidcwise, in·the direction of the orgnn. Dr. Spurzhcim re-
marked that women in whom it is lnrge, when entering n
milliner'• shop, turn their heads on one side toward the arti·
ole they are examining. I have observed thnt children
with·it large, in lenrning to write, move.their bends with
their pen1, and delight in flourishes; while those with it
IIDoll. hold their head, still and upright, and write stiJF
.• 'E.toelleaee mtbete operatioDI depend~ much upon the orpn of
WeiJb&.. . ;· . . , .
o; tized 'YGoogle
SELF•ESTBEH. 175
crabbed hands. This is a hint to writing-masters to let the
heads of their pupils alone, for their instinctive movement
or position will best aid tho mind and the huu,t•
.SENTillENTS.
'Vc now come to thnt genus of the fitcuhics cnlletl Senti-
ments. Somo of thcs~ nrc common to amm and tho lower.
animals ; others nrc peculiar to mnu. 1'hc former nrc
styled tho Inferior Sentiments: of them I shall trent tir;Jt,
and begin with
SELF·EsTEE~t.
This organ lies at t·hc crown of the hcnd,just ubove the
sagittal angle ofthe parietal bones. '\"hen large, the bend
· ruus fur upward and backward from the ear in this direction.
It can bo readily found by noticing that it lies on tho middle
liuc, in th~ superior part of the back of tho hcnd, nud
never occupies any portion of the bend which looks directly
upward.
l\lnn, plnced as he is in n universe of worlds, surrounded
hy objects vnst and magnificent, wouM be apt to luwo nn
overwhelming idea of his own insignificance, antl exclnim,
despondingly, ''Vhnt i::J man, 0 Lord, thnt thou iut mindful
of him 1' did not this organ give to him due importance
in his own eyes, and impart thnt degree ofsatisfaction with
self which leaves the mind open to the enjoyment of the
· bounties of Providence nnd the nmeuitics of life; nnd in-
spires him with thnt confidence in his own powers wbich is
essential to every grent nchievemcnt, nnd even to tbe pro-
per npplicntion of his fnculti<.'s in the every-dny business or
life. Some have expressed their surprise thnt there should
be an organ for esteeming one's self, seeing that humility Ua
a Tirt\lC j but they forget thnt humility is tho opposite of
nrroguncc, not of p1·opcr sclf-ret:p<.'ct.
Gnll diliCOVcred this orgnn by noticing tho bend or a beg-
gar who hnd inherited a considernblc fortune from his Cather,
but thought it beneath him to apply to business, either for
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
..
176 8BL~·E8TEF.M.
·.its prese"ation or for the acquisition of a new one. Gall
moulded bis bend, and, on examining it wjth attention,
found the orgnn of Cnutiou~tncss . amnii, with a smnll bend
in general~ but this pnrt much developed. lie pursued his
inquiries and.finnlly established the orgnu.
This cost, which wns given to me ot Boston, is very long
upward and bockwnrd from tho enr. 1 wns. told tlmt the
gentl~mnn whose hcnd it represents mnnifcsts the feeling
to a most ridiculous extent. . Love of Approbntion Jics on
tho sides of Self-Esteem. When lnrgo it gives rcmnrknhlo
fullness nnd br.codth to tho upper mad bnck J>nrt oftho bend.
I w-ill present some heads to you in which these two orgnns .
ore in TBrious stntes of development. This is the Bo~ton
head, in which Self-Esteem is Jorge and Love of Approbn·
tion small. This is the head of 1\frs. H., in which Self·
Esteem ie small. and Love of Approbnti(m lnrge. This ·is
the head of the Rev. 1\lr. 1.\'lartin, in which both organs are
Jarge. Here are three others : this is the head of nn Irish
soldier who shot three men; in it Self-Esteem is verylnrge
ond LOve.of Approbation very ·small. This is the head of
J'rnn~ois Cordonnier, the French poet, in which Self-Esteem
is small and Love of Approbation very large. This is the
bend of Sheridan, in which both organs nre lnrge.
Tho proper development of Sclf-E!teem is nn csseutinl
element in·n great eharacter; but when too large it pro·
duces arrognnce, superciliousness and selfishness, and in
children pettishness and wilfulness of temper. The man
ofinordinate Self-Esteem is n world unto himself, to which
all ~hings .must concentrate; a standard to which the man·
.Den, morals nod opinions of others ought, he thinks, to
eonform. This feeling in predominance is, to a grent ex··
tent, the fountnil' ofthnt intolerant zeal so frequently mani-
fesJe·d by professing Christians on behalf of their sectarian
riews. "Thl're is no groce," says Cowper, "that the spirit
ofself can counterfeit with more &uccess than a religious
seal. A mno tbinka he is fighting for God, when he is
. '
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
SELF•ESTEEM. 177
merely fighting for his own notions. llu thinks he is skill-
fully ecnrching the hcnrts of others, wbcn be i:s only grfttify-
ing the mnJiguity of his own ; mul clmritnbly t~upposus hie
hearers destitute of.nil grnce, tlmt be mny t~hino thu more
in his own eyes by eompuri~ou. "'hen he ht\:5 performed
this ·notable tnsk, he wonders tlmt they nrc not converted:
he hns given it to them sounl11y, niHl if they do not trcmblo
nnd confess thnt God is in him ofn truth, ho gh·e:s thl'll\ up
ns rcprobnto, incorrigible, tmtl lost fclr ever." Cowper wws
a sincerely religious mnn, and in this dcscritltion ho repro·
sents thnt dogmatic Sclf-Estrem which nrrugntca to it~elf
infhllibility nnd which is found in some individunl11 of all
~ects.
'l'here is nt this time n grent wnr going on in my own
country between two religious parties, one of which bus
certnin endowments which the other thinks it ought not to
hnve. A minister of the established church, mnking a
speech nt one of their meetings, mnintnined thnt the true
religion should be endowed ; " But," said be, "it is nsked
which is the true religion 1 I nnswer, ortrs is the true reli-
gion." This nssertion, which wns merely nn amu$ing
mnnifestntion of Self-Esteem, wns received with loud OP.'"
plnuse.
Tho per:~on in whom this orgnn is too small is often un-
nblc to llursue even a virtuous course, through diffidence of
his own judgment. Inferior talents, combined \Vith a strong
endowment of Self-Esteem, nre often crowned with far
higher success than more splendid abilities joined with this
sentiment feebly de\·elopcd. Dr. Adam Smith remarks
thnt it is better to 1mve too much than too little; because, if
we .Pretend to more thnn we m:c entitled to, the world will
will give us credit for nt lcnst whnt we possess; whereas,
if we pretend to lcs~, we shall be taken at our word, nnd
innnkind will rnrely have the justice to raise us to our true
merit.
ThQ fancied superiority of self produces tl1o enjo7mentof
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
'
178
dotroc~1on. . People tnko their neighbours down n peg tlmt
themselves may ~ppenr n peg higher. Envy is the re~mlt of
Self-Esteem and Destructiveness. The former is ofiended
at the superior happiness, excellence, weulth or station, of
othenr, the latter hates theni for it. This organ renders
true the saying I that We always· findS tiOffiething tO COnSOle
.us for the misfortunes·of our neighbours.' It is extremely
active in socie.ty. In my own country the learned profes-
sions look down upo.n and despise the merchants as a plod-
ding set, and the merchants look down upon the manufac-
turers, the wholesale dealers look: do.wn upon the retail
deniers, and these look down upon the handicrafts-and
the men or tide look down upon and despise all. These
nre strange fantastic tricks, from the 8pirit of which this
country is by no means free.
Predominant Self-Esteem, renders men quite satisfied
with themselves, and with whatever belongs to them.
MadAme de Stnel describes its effect on even n powerful
mind. He spent his time, she remarks, in admiring the
astonishing magnificence of his own abilities and attain-
ments. Men possessing this organ and Benevolence large,
have a solemn, good-natured, patronizing air, and ore opt
to addrel's others with the epithets, 1 My good sir,' 1 1\ly
good felJow,' and the like.
Self-Esteem is lnrge in the North AmericanJ~iona,:who
are remarkable for pride and personal dignity. Also in the
English and Americans, and is the .foundation of that Jove
of liberty which characterizes this nrrognnt and turbulent
race. It produces th·n~ egotism, that proneness to ut~e the
emphatic I-1 I did this; I said thnt'-which characterizes
the discourse of some people. During the wars of the
French ReYolution, when the Briiish notion was struggling
Cor existence ogninst all Europe, excluded from the conti-
nent,· and mostly.confined to their island, their patriotism
was inYok~ in aU modes, and their Self-Esteem continunlly
.timnlated. They tbua learned to consider themseiYe.s ~be
Digitized by Google
BELP•ESTEEM. 179
most civilized people in the world, nnd were grcntly n~ton­
hdted on.visiting the Continent nfier the pence, to find any
great, good and amiable quality as nbundnnt elsewhere as nt
home. This country, from its remoteness from ether civ-
ilized nations,is in a si.tuntion similnr to that of England
during the war. It has no standard by which to compare
.itself, except itself, and I see a good deal of the snme o\·er-
estimnte of its own attainments which characterized the
Eugliflh during the period of their isolation.
Self-Esteem often restrains men from forming improper
connections, when combined with large moral orgnns it in-
!tpircs with the dislike of every tl.ing mean and contempti-
ble in behaviour. Combined with Acquisitiveness, it pro-
duces a disposition to acquire and keep property. This
combination with deficient Benevolence constitutes a miser;
with Acquisitiveness, Love of Approbation, Ideality and
Form, it leads people to collect works of art ; with these
andColour, to collect paintings; with Acquisitiveness, Self-
Esteem and Venerntion, to a passion for uniques. It has
been said that but three fnrthings were coined during Queen
Ann's reign. This combination would prompt its posses-
sor to give one hundred pounds for one of these farthings,
and one thousand pounds if the other two were destroyed.
It appears to be the secret satisfaction of thinking that " In
~ssessing this article I om superior to, and unrivalled by
all the world," which gives the Jove of uniques.
When diseased, the organ leads patients to consider
themselves great personnges, as kings, queens, generals,
great poets, or even as God himself. It is larger in men
than women ; and the former are more Jin.ble than the lat-
ter to insanity from pride. Its natural Janguage is a strut
in the gait, a lofty carriage of the bead, and a repulsin
manner and tone of voice. 'Vhen much excited, it drawa
!he head ~ack. You see the natural language expressed
an the most striking manner in this caricature or Louis
XVIII. It was printed at the time that there. was a conten·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
180 LOT& o• APPRODATION.
tion between this King and the people about a charter.
Tli~ French, ve'rf.reasonnbly in my opinion, thought that
Fronee belonged to them, and thot tbey b11d a right to form
their own charter. Louis th~ught thot"France belonged tu
him, and he out of the plenitude of his condeseensiou
lfould bestow a charter upon them. They revenged them·
selves ·by drawing him i.n this attitude, with ftbout al5 much
contempt in·his ·face and monner as if he were giving to a
dog a bone.. I mentione~ that while the Rev. Edword Ir·
ving was a student, I examined hi15 bend and found very
large SeJf.Esteem. This represents him in the pulpit:. you
eee he is dl'ftwn bock in the atttitude of self-importance. It
is easy to perceive that he is windin~ up a period in which
he tells his laearers, that he has done his duty, and thot if
they will go to perdition, their blood wm be upon their 0\Vll
bead. Here is the full·length portrait of a lady: her erect
and.composed attitud., indicates the presence of this organ.
At the close of a bottle between two co~ks, you see the
abasement and exhftltation of thia orgnn. The one slinks
·awoy with his head down, and the other stretches up bis
bead and proudly struts while issuing a victorious crow.
Self-abasement bows the head into a direction contrury to
that of Self-Esteem, os in this beautiful reprea~entntion of
our Saviour, who is supposed to be saying: •Thy will be
done.' The prostration of the whole person on the ground
before Eastern potentate11, is meant to indicate the abase·
ment of sel£ It ia the attitude the very opposite of that of
pride and aelf·importance.
11. LovE OF APPROBATION.
I have pointed out tho direction of this organ, and pre·
taented to yon a number nf specimens. Dr. Gall met with
a woman in a lunatic asylum who fancied herself the Queen
of France. He expected to find the region of Self-Esteem
lftrgely developed, but inttend, there wfts a distinct hollow
and a ·J_
a. 19umt protubem_
nee on each side. Thie at·fint
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LO:V£ OP APPROB.\TIONo l~l
caused him much embarrassment. But he soon pereei\·cd
that this woman's insanity differed much from thnt of men
nJienated through pride. The latter affected a mnseuline
majesty, and were grave, calm, imperious, ele\·ated, arro-
gant. This woman, on the contrary, manifested a restless
frivolity, nn inexh-nustible talkativeness, affected forward-
ness, eagerness to announce high birth and boundless
riches, promises of f.'\Vour and honour. She solicited at-
tention, and strove by every means to -obtain admiration.
From that time he perceived the difference between Self.
Esteem and Love of Approbation.
Love of Approbation is the drill-sugcant of society, noel
admonishes us when we tlepnrt too widely from the line of
march. It is the butt, on which wit t~trikes, nnd which
enables ridicule to shame us out of faults aud improprieties.
,,.hen excessive, it craves for compliments, is led by fa!hion,
:md ever nsks, before adopting a course of conduct, what
will the world think of it l It leads men to give openly,
thnt they may receive praise. He in whom it is large feel!"
rebuffs keenly, and a thousand things occasion excessit"e
pain, which pass over one in whom Self-Esteem is hugt!
lvithout exciting attention. In the French, Love of Appro-
bntion is predominant, and they think the English cold,
haughty und arrogant. In the English, Self-Esteem i11
predominant, nnd they think the French low-spirited, fawn-
ing and trifling.
Love of Approbation combined with llenevolence, pro-
cluccs politeness and n desire to please; with Self-Esteem,
love of fnmc; with Alimcntivencs8, it leads men to boast
uf fcnts in cntin.,. and drinkin"' producina the fiollr-bottle
~ ot ~
men, whom Lord Chesterfield in charil!J calls liars because,
if he believed them, he should call them hens~. Com-
bined with Ideality without large Intellect, it produces love
uf drc@s nnd ornament, and ambition to lend the fashions;
with ldcnrt d c .
I Y au om;tructt\·encs$, lo\"e of work~ of art.
Combined · 1 L ·
wn 1 . nngungc, 1t producctt n fondnest for com-
16
o,J,zedbyGoogle
IB'J LOVB OP APPROBATION.
position, for Joye of f11me as an author; with Acquisitive-
ness, it produces admiration of wealth ; with Combative·
ness and on otherwise low organization, it forms the bull!J,
who loves to be conl'iderc~ the best fighter in his neigh-
bourhood.
Love· of Approbation·is the foundation of that love of
distinction and of titles which is so common in my own
country; ancl frotn which this country is by no means free.
Your institutions exclude artificial distinctions of rank, but
I ~rceive that such titles ofhonour and dignity as do exist
among you, nrc as eagerly aCJught nfter, as the titles of
rank in England. The faeulty exists here as everywhere
else, and it desires such distinctions as it can attnin. 'fhe
love of deeorntions and ornaments, 'vhcther these consist
of Bton, garters and medals, or of tattooed face~, bored
uoses And eagles' fenther~, springs from this organ.. 'Ve
find some men who nre npt to captivate us very quickly by
their attentive nnd rcpcctful mnnncr, but we often discover
tbot all their attentions nrc bc~towcd for the purpose of ob·
taining approbation nnd praise for thcmseh·es.
Dr. Gall draws with greAt accuracy the distinction be·
tween Pride, which is on abuse of Self-Esteem and Vnnity,
which is on abuse of the organ of which we nre no\Y trent-
ing.-" The proud mnn," says he, "is imbued with n ~en·
timent of his own superior roorit, nnd from the st1mmit ot"
his grandeur treats with contempt or indifference nil other
mortals; the 11ain mnn attnches the utmost importnnce to
the opinions entertained of him by otheJ'tl, and seeks with
.eagerness to gain their approbation. The proud man ex·
·pectl the world will come to him and acknowledge his
· •nerit ; the "ain man knocks at every doorto drnw attention
toward him and supplicates for the smnllest portion of hon·
qnr. The proud mnn del'lpisea those mnrks of distinction
which on the "ain confer tho moat perfect delight. The
· prntl m.an·i1 disgusted by indiaereet eulogiums; tbe ~H~ir&
o1
git1
zed by Coogle
LOVE OF .\PPROBA.TION. 183
man inhale$ with ecstnsy the incense of flattery, although
profusely offered, nnd with.no very skilful hand."
This faculty is too much cultivated in educntion, by being
almost universally appealed to as the chief stimulus to exer-
tion and good behaviour. It is only where improper sub-
jects nrc taught, or proper ones are taught improperly,
that such nppeul$ nre required. In exce~sire acth·ity it
prompts to the equi\·ocntion, 'not at home,' which in thi:-.
country is much less used than in Britain. Here lndie!'l ·
nrc not ashamed to announce the truth that" they nrc par- .
ticulurly engaged and tind it incom·enient to see company.•·
Love of Approbation,ns well as Self-Esteem, prompts "'
the usc of the first person ; but its tone is that of courtcOU!--
solicitntion, while that of Self-Esteem is arro~ant ano
presumptuous.
'Vhen this organ is deficient, the indiridual cares littlf-
for the opinion of others; and if the selfish propensitit-!-
pr•·,!ominate, the combination produces what nre called
• illlpl·aeticahle' men, whose whole feelings nrc conc~ntru­
tcd on self. Uebutls nnd indignities nercr affect them. Free
from n·strnint~ of delicacy, they practise upon the benevo-
lence, the friendship, the interest of others, nnd often nchie\·<·
their ends in spite of obstacles which to a sensiti\·c miud
would h:l\·e been in::urmountnblc.
'l'hc 11aturallanguagt of this fl'cliug is to cnrry the heud
hncl{wnrd, nud·n little to the side; it imparts to the voice u
soft, ~oliciting tone, clothes the countenance in smilct-t, nnd
produces in the lips thnt elegant line of beauty which rt~­
!;cmbles Apollo's bow. You see the nntural )nngunge well
manifested in this drawing. A lady, after I hnd Jeli\·ercd
this lecture on one occnsiou, told me thnt she was surpri:ocd
nt my not exhibiting the nnturnl Jnngunge of the fhculty in
a drawing of n dandy. "Look nt l1im" ~nid she" with hi:-
hnir hanging in ringlets or carefully rounded out nt the sid•·
into a fhscinating cur) ; he wears n little, low crowned
and brond brimmed bat, stuck jauntily on the aide of hit~
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
18« LOYB OP..APPBOBA.TIOH.
head ; his c~at is fitted ·to his bock like n tailor's show-fig-
ure, ond his bend is reclining gently bock\vnrda nnd to one
aide, while eimpcring smiles bedeck his countennnce; he ill
the nry.penonificntion ofLoYo of Approbntion." I thnnkrd
the Indy for her portrait,' nnd if nny friend will drnw it for
me in blnck chalk, lahnJJ hove grent pleosnrc in doing jn:~~­
tice to the Indies by ploeing the' dandy' nlong side of thr
femzllc fignro \Yhich you hero ace.•
A young Indy, o relntive of my own, went ton honrdin;r
•chool, tho governess of which wns very ·pnrticnlnr nbout
the mnnncre of her pupilR; nnd, nmong other thing!l, tlhl'
tnught the young lnclies thnt the proper nttitude for n Indy,
woe to hold tho hcncl nne) fig~arl} in tho )»>sition rt•prcsc•ntt•cl
m this drowing, tho hcncl thrown gently bncl(, nnd inclining
to ~mo side, in short, in the position nnturully ndoptcd wht'n
J~ove of Approbntion predominates. In my young rclnth·<',
~elf-Esteem nnd Firmness were ruther lnrge, nnd con:~c­
quontly it wns nnturnl for her to hold herhcnd erect. She dirl
her best, howeYer, to follow directions; but nftcr sittin;r li11·
11ometime with her bend on one aide, she took n pnin or crick
in her neck, ond hnd to resume her nnturnl po!'ition. She
would then get n scolding, would ngnin try to hold her hend
in the required position, but the erick would ngoin come ;
and finnlly the governess gnve up the nttempt, remnrkin~
that ahe did very well in every thing else, but thnt in her nt·
titurlet~she wns excessiYely nwkward nnd incorrigibly vulgnr.
I subsequently sow. this Indy, nnd remnrked that in her
hend Love of Approbation wos enormous, nnd thnt she
nntura1ly th~w her head in this position; nnd .because it
• !' Evory one knowa that in the south of France, they decorate the
main ~ith bonquell \Vhcn they trnvcl welL The most painful punish·
me~' which can be inflicted on them, ia to deprive them or their bou·
fJUel, ud tie them to the back of th«! cctrriag~t. I have a femnlo ape,
whea.Yer they sin her ll hondkerchier, lhe throws it over .her, and
takee a wonderful deal of pleuure in aeeins it dnc behind, like the
tniD eta eoarwobe. Gall. iv. 100. .
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
CAUTIOUSNE8S. . 185
was nnturol to her, she conceived it to be the beau idenl of
graceful po~itiou. · 'l'he Utlriglit nttitudl~ of 1-'irmnc~s, which
she condemned ns vulgM, wns more ngrcenblc to my tnste,
than the simpering attitude of Love of Ap1nobntion whicb
she comauctHl1~d ; but e\·ery one will prefer the attitude
· which hnrmoniscs with his own predominant fheultiea.
12. CAUTIOUSNESS.
· Ci11galtsc buy. F«rtrla 1kNll.
'fhis orgnn i~ t~ituat~tl nenr the mitltllc of the parietal
bone, whcro o:;sificntion gent•rally commences, mHl beneath
whnt nrc called the parietal prntnbernnce~:~. Compare these
skulls : This wa!' pickc«l up on the plain of 'Vntcrloo; you
see thnt it ~ccms truncated. In. thi11, tho sk,ull of n Cingn·
)esc boy, the si7.e i~ immcn~t~.
This cll'!!l\ll is the fountnin of (tar, or tho instinct of self-
~ . .
prescr\"ntion. Gnll wns struck by the extreme irresolution
of a c1ergymnn of Vienna, who could never decide upon
nny thing. A few da~·s nftcrwnrd, nt nn exnminntion of n
public school, tl•is clergymnn Pnt beside n Counsellor of
Stnte, of .the snme irresolute chnrnctt•r, and so proverbial
for his indecision ns to hnve r~ccived the nidi.-nn:ue of
CacadubiCJ. Dr. Gall observctl the great projection of their
heods in this region. C<uaceivin~ that Indcci$ion aud Cir-
cnm15pcction might be eomwttect with this pnrticular pnrt
of the brnin, he pursued his investigationS!, nnd soon veri·
fied his conjecture.
Fear appears to me the primitive feeling of this orgGD.
16~
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
186 CAVTIOUINEII.
Fear cannot be the absence of conroge, ne it is " posttlfc
. emotion, which the negation of a qunlity cnnnot produce.
Tho tendency of this sentiment is to mnke the indavidunl
apprehend danger, to mnke him ·keep n constnnt look-out,
to hesitate before he acta,· and to look to consequence11,
that lie may be nssured of safety~ A fuH development is
csecntitll to a prudent chnrnctcr.
'Vhcn tlto organ is too lnrgc, it produces n \vuvering,
doubting, undecided dispollition, and may occnsiou un ab-
solute incapacity .for vigorous nnd decided conduct. A
great and involuntary activity of it constitutes pa11ic, in
which .the mind is hurried nwny by an irresistible emotion
of fear. I hove noticed thnt _
it is almost invnrinbly large in
children, nod we must all admire this providential arrange-
ment. It is n gunrdian better than fifty nurses, und the
plnce of which no external care cnn supply. A boy of
. aix yeara of oge, in whom it wns very small, took off his
clothes, and W!'l about to jump intp an old qunrry full of
water af\er his cap, which hnd been blown into it, when he
was stopped by a pallset·!:',!". His mother wns continunlly
in nlorn1 abolJt him ; dunger h-.. seemed incapable of com-
prehending. The boyaubsequently died; tmd the mother,
after-the first emotions of grief were over, expreseed her
thankfulness thnt be hnd pnssed nwny.
Another lady \Vas very apprehensive ·.for her little son,
who had a disposition to climb and perform other feats of
activity. Perceiving his Love of Approbation and Cau-
tioUJnen large, I told her thnt the boy performed his feats
to gratify the firat, and would not undertake them unless
obee"ed. Therefore her remedy wus to let him nlone, for
bis Cautiousne11 would guard him from danger. She took
DO notice of hie feats of climbing nnd he gave them up.
When this orgnn it amnii, and Hope large, tho future
weems full ot joy and glndness ; thero is tl confident look-
log forward .for brilliant 11uccess, witlt, too often, n neglect
or the JDIIlDio. A penon 10 orp~ized teems to think that
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CAUTIOUSNESS. 187
all desirable things will come at a future time. ITo is sub-
ject, however, to \'isitntions of disnppointmt•nt; Hope does
not fulfil her promises, nnd n pnug ft,llows. Elnsticity is,
however, soon fl'gnined, nnnther nlluring object pre:f\!nts it-
self, which, in its turn eludes his grnilp.
'VIum Cuutiousness is lange nnd Hope small, tho present
cannot be enjoyed, on nccount of fcnrful ftncbodin~tt. Tho
futuro seems datrk and cheerless, nnd evils nro suffered by
anticipation which nrc never renlizcd in fuct. It may bo
disens!!d ; in fact, in the old country it is moro often dis-
eased thnn amy other organ. 'VIum it is so, it gives most
fearful upprchensions. A Indy, in whom it was morbidly
ntfected, ro~e thirteen times in one night to flee if her chil-
dren were nlivc. In this cn~e, Philoprogenitivenoss nlso
wns lange. 'Vhen the organ is in this diseased condition
people often try to lnugh the pntient o"t of his notions;
they might ns well try to Iough him out of the tooth-ache.
The rationnl wny is to suhject him to n course of mornl
and physical treatment, ndnpted to the peculiarities of his
case.
In Dr. Dodd, who wns executed for forgery, this orgnn
as ·you perceive, is very smniJ. Compure it with this of
the Rev. 1\lt'. l\lnrtin, or thi11 of King Robert Bruce. Dodd
wns brou~ht up ·fi,r privnte exumination before the Enrl
of Che~terficld nnd n mngistrute. His cn&e excited very
painful sensntions, nnd they got up nnd went out of the
room, in which there wns n fire. lenving Dr. Dodd with the
pnpcrs by which nlone he could be convicted, hoping thnt
he would det~troy them; but on their rt•turn they found, with
horror und surprise, thnt he hnd not done t:o.
Suicide$ hnn· gcnt:rally this organ nnd Det:tructivenea
lnrge, nnd llope small. Cnutiousncs$, when stimulftted to
excess, gi\·es ri~e to intcn11e mclnncholy, nngnish and nnx-
icty; nnd by thus rendering life exlrcnlt'ly misernble, it in-
directly prompts to this result. J.et no ono ~upposo suici\tO
\o result from mere error of judgment. It proceeds from
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
...
'
.88 CAUT10U8Nt:8S.
lnternnl nnd in\•oluntury feelings of n .disenscd nature, the
misery nnd torments of which, he who has never felt them
cannot nceurutely .conceive. ~ once knew n cnse of sui-
cide, however, from this combination: lnrge Self-Esteem,
Combntiveness, Destructiveness, und Firam~ess. The sui-
cide wns n boy of thirteen yeurs of ugc, whose brother, nftcr
trying vnrious other modes of rcclniming him from vicious
conduct, hod st>verely beuten him. The boy, seeing no other
mode of.revenge, lmnged himself; nnd so firm wns his re-
BOlve, thnt he kept his legt dru\Vn up to the body, )eat they
might touch the floor.
This fitculty gives n tendency to open the eyes wide,
to roll the eye-balls, und to turn the hcnd from side to
side; from which nrises the term Circumspection. A hnre
1urprised in a fidd, sitting on its hind legs, with its eyes
open, and its heod moviug nnxiou~ly from aide to side, ia a
· fine example of this expr«.>asion. 'fhe nnturnl Jnngunge of
Destructiveness, Secrt:tiveness nnd Cnutiouaneaa, ia well
expreeaed by Sir Wniter Scott, in his 'Lord of the Isles:'
For evil seemed that old man's eye--
Dark aJUl duigrting,.ficru, yet ih1:
'·t - . '' ; ::·.::,:::~~;::;~::~
·'' .A eirding, tv.ll'-r-wuing glt.ntu,
..
Bg tiDNbe aJUl CIUtRillg mar/wlat emu,
\ . · . Jt7tit/uAola JRildeitof.Jiodireg raJ
.,.. From under e1e-browellbagged and rray."
.I; '•• ..
; .
..
; .· ..
' I~ ·
o, •izedbyGoogle
BENETOL£NCE. 189
LECTURE VIL
SUPERIOR. SEl'\Til\IENTS.
I Now· come to what nre called the S~tptrlor Selltimt1lts,
or such as constitute the peculiarly human chnrnetcr. Ot
these, however, Benevolence and Imitation are found also in
the inferior animals. The best rule for ascertaining the si7.e
of the .coronal region, the sent of these sentimentta, is the fol-
lowing : 'fhe centre of Causality corresponds to the point of
ossification in the frontal bone, and the centre of Cautious-
ness·to the point of ossification in the parietal bone, all thnt
port ofthe hend which liP.s nbove these points belongs to the
Moral Sentiments, allowing u little for Causality and a little
for Cautiousness. l'ass a string, therefore, round tbe head
over these points, and if that part of it \\·hich lies above a
plane, of \vhich this string is the boundary, be low nnd ftnt,
you mny rest assured that the 1\loral Sentiments ore small ;
if it be high and broad, you may be certain that they nrc
lnrge.• The best cord I ha,·e used for this purpose is formed
of zinc overlapped \Vith black ribbon or tnpc, it is very dexi- '
ble nnd is kept in place by the force of gravity. I shall DO\Y
treat of the individual organs, nnd first of .
13. Bt:NEVOLENCE.
Tlai!' orgnn is situated nt the fore part of the top of th~
hcnd, on each side of the middle Jine, and anterior to the
fontanelle. A friend of Gall, knowing that be had sought
external mnnifestntions of mental <tualities, requested him
to examine the bend of n servant remarkable for his amin.
ble dispotaition and goodness of heart, ns it is cnllcd. "It
is impossible," snid he, " to find a greater degree of good·
ness than thnt young mnn possesses." GnU complied \Tith
• See tbo figure atthe comntenc:ement ofLecture ninth.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
190 BENEVOLENCE.
the request, and perceived n prominence of the frontal bone.
He recollected n school-mate who hnd the like mninble tem-
per; nnd he wns requested by n Indy to cxnmino the hend
or her son, nlso very ltminhle. lie found.nll their hendzJ
much developed. in this region ; by cxnmiuotion of others lw
wns convinced· thnt the disposition to do good is ilmnh·.
and thnt here is its orgnn.
This sentiment prompts to nets like thnt of the Good
Snmnrilnn. 'l'hose. who hn\'e it strong ·do good without
regard to fnme, nnd do not complain of ingratitude ; they
manifest n wtlrmth nnd !implicity of mnnne.r, nnd n direct·
ness of purpose which touch the heart nt once-while thost
\Yho do good from love of npprohntion seek witnesses, boost
of their goodness, nnd evince n coldness nnd restraint which
betrny their true feelings. See how lnrge it is in Henry
IV. or Fr::mee·; beautifully did he mnnifest it in his chnrnc·
ter. When urged to injure nn officer who hnd tnken pnrt
against him, he replied, "·I will do him so much good thnt
he will be forced to lo\'e me." 'Vhen desired to destroy n
town which he hod conquered, he replied, " The plcnsure
which results from grntified revenge lusts but for n moment;
that whi~h flows from mercy is cternnl." Fenelon ex-
laibitcd n most benutifnl mnnifcstntion of it when he snid,
"I nm n true Frenchman, nnd love my country; but I lo,·c
monkind better than my country." Hobbes ret~oh•cs its
1nnnifestation into selfishness. Pleasure indeed is; by n
bcnutiful nrrnngcmcnt of the Crentor, mntle n concomitant
ofbenevolent nets, but it is not filr the plcnsurc thnt the nets
nrc performed. The mnn who sec~ nnothcr fnll. into the
water und lcnps in to ~nvc him, mullt fct>l grcnt delight, if
aucocssful, but not for this diu be risk his life.
The orgnn is very distinctly developed in the bend ofJnc.ob
Jarvis, of Cork, who CQuld nevf!r resist any solicitation.
When his wiftt sa\v nny one coming whom she supposed
about to request f'omething, she·hnd to lock the door or be
bud to hide himself. The orglln is extremely developed in
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
DENEVOLE~CE.
the bend of the negro Eustache,
who$e merits .were publicly ac-
knowledged by the Institute of
. France, from which, in 183:!, he
received the Prize of Virtue.
During the contest~ which fol-
lowed on the nttcmpts of the
French to restore slnvcry iu St.
Domingo, the disinterested exer-
tions of Eustnche in behalf of his
mnster l\1. Belin, were unbound-
ed. By his oddres~, courage, and
tlcmtion, this gentleman, with
·upward of four hundred other
Whites, were ~mved from the
191
Eultatlte.
general massacre, nt1d tho fi>rtune of1\1. Belin several times
preserved. At Paris, the profits of his industry and the
rewards he obtained were all employed in relie\·ing the
miserable. At Port an Prince he often heard his matater,
who was on old mun, deplore the gradual wcnltening of hiB
eyes. Eustache could not rend, but, inspired with the hope
uf pleasing his master, he applied himself secretly to study,
took lessons ot four o'clock in the morning, that he might
not encroach on the time required for his regular duties,
and speedily acquired the wished for kowlcdgc. Approach-
ing the old mnu with a book in his hand, he proved to him,
thut if nothing seems easy ,.;;t"""s-~~,..,....~
to ignornnce, nothing is im-
possible to devotion. I
again show you the cnst, ns
it is one of the most benuti-
ful demonstrations of this
l)rgnn which we posses:;.
Contrast it with this ofGrit:
liths the murderer.
The idcn thnt bem!\·olence
GrijfiiM.
can mnnifest itself only bJ
o, ,,zedbyGoo le
192 BENEVOLENCE.
giving alm11 or J¥1oney, is a vulgar error. It is bonevolenee
toward those with .whom we live, to order ou.r arrange-
ments. with a due regord to their comfort, and not to deny
them proper gratification~ ; it is benevolent to suppr.css our
humours and impulses, when these would occasion un-
, necessary pain to others; it is benevolent in giving orders,
to restrain SeJ(.Esteem, and, in censuring, to be mild and
merciful ; it is benevolent to be courteous and considerate
to tbo.se in bumble station. Benevolence, too, is an essen·
tial element in .true politeness. I knew a gentleman in
whom this organ was large, but combined with large Ac·
f}Uisitiveness and Self-Esteem. He bad much leisure time,
nnd .would devote w.hole days to the promotion of benevo· .
lent purposc11, but very seldom gave pecunhrry aid.
Deficient Benevolence does not produce cruelty, but it
Jead11 to regardlessness of the welfare of others; and when
amnii, a powerful restraint is removed from .the propensi-
ties. Let Benevolence be absent from those who atteiul
tho ~tick, and there is no ever-gushing well-spring of good·
ness. One who hns large Conscientiousness may be faith
ful as n matter of dut!l, but will not manifest thnt uniform
kindnessand gentleness, tbnt softness and sympathy, which
is so gratifying, soothing and important. I have never
known it smolJ in n regular stewardess in a sen-going ship
or steamboat, which mny be accounted for from the fnct,
thnt one in whom tho organ wns deficient would soon be·
come ~isgusted with her dutiet~ and find other employment,
orbe di1chorged for neglect. 'Vc hm·e more tlmn a hundred
l!lkulls of murderers; and in almost all we find Benevolence
Yery smnU. In tho cases in which it is Iorge, tho murders
hnvo generally been committed either after provocatifm, or
(Ill the impulse of tho moment. Persons in whom tho or·
Jt•m it •mnll, mul Acquisitivr,nclls nnd Self-Esteem large~
nttributc every tlaing to selfishness ; nnd if Destructivcnc~s
l~e lnrgc, they cannot realize .thnt even the Deity himself
Mn take }dca•mro in doing good, their mind is cxpot~ed. to
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
BENEVOLENC.E.. 193
the influence of the .lower feelings, their temper is npt to be-
come cold, harsh, sour nnd unhappy; they have little sym-
pathy with enjoyment ; the face of creation appears not to
smile ; moral and physical objects are viewed on their
dnrkest sides, and they steel tlu:mselves with malignity
Dcstructivene~s and llene,·ohmce do not neutralize eaclt
other, but Destructiveness may, in some iustnnces, even aid
Benevolence. An nrmy going to battle is emblematic of
the activity of these two faculties, it marches forward
equipped fur the work of destruction, yet surgeons nttend
for the purpose of succouring those on whom the cnlumities
of wnt· may fall. \Vithout Combativeness nnd Destructive-
ues3 there would be no wat· ; and without Benevolence,
neither mercy nor compassion.
This organ is found in the lower animals, and its devel-
opment may be ascertained. \Vhcn the horse is hollo'v
and nurrow in the middle of the foreh~nd just above it.-
eyes, it is invnrinbly vicious, nnd disposed to bite nnd kick.
In mild mu.l good-nnturcd horses, the contrnry form .is nl-
ways present. In cuts nud dogs the some rule holds good ;
nnd that great differences cxi8t in these animals aU kno\\·,
Some cats will allow themselves to be played w:th and
handled by children, without ever striking, except with their
sheathed clRws; some scrntch nt nil who incommode them
in the slightest degree. Some dogs will precipitate them·
selves into the water to save persons who have fallen .in.
Benevolence mny, however, be nLused. Conscientious-
ness is required to stay the hand till justice be satisfied, nud
firmness to resi::t the impulse~ of Benevolence till ren~011
has t.lecitlcu on the propriety of the proposed modo of mani-
festation. Uy indiscriminate nlms-givin~, profligacy nnd
idleness mny bo encouraged, nml reckless dissipation fos.
tercd.
In discnsc this orgnn mny be pr~ternnturnlly nctivc. It
is often active, too, in idiots. "I once lmew n mnn," snys
Dr. Rush, "who discovered no one mark of reason, whc;
17
o; tized 'YGoogle
194 VBNtiRATION.
possessed tho moral sense or facult)' in so high a degree
thot be spent bis whole life in nets ofBenevolence. He woe
not only inoft"cnsivc, (which is not always the case with
with idiots,) but he wu .kind oud aft"ectionote to ever,Y
body...
·This organ generally gives great sweetnesa to the voice,
kindne•s and tenderness to the manner.
14. VENERATION.
Thill organ is situated oxllctly in the centro oftho coronul
region, anbo foutnncllo, hchi.ud llcucvolcneo. Dr. Gull'a~
Cather had ten chiWrcu, one ofwhom was devout from cbild-
Jaood and wished to become n priest, but wns made tl mcr-
chaJ,t. Unhot,I,Y in this business, he nbnnJoned it nt tlw
age of twenty-three, ond took orders. Dr. Gall wns in·
tended for the church, but having no pnrtinlity for it, left it
Corthe study ofmt!dicine. GnU observed a variety ofdispo·
aitions among children at the schools, for which nnbody .
could account ; some being piouf', others being quite tht'
reverse. This led him to believe the religious sentiment to
be innate. llo oxnmined tho beads of religious pcoplt.•,
and finally found n prominence in thi11 region. 'l'his wns
remarkable in his brother, in tho portraits of eminent sniuts,
and in antique stutucs of high priests. lie entered the
Catholic churches, ahvnys open in Europe, ond snw tlu~
•ame marks in the grontest devotees-and tinnily estnbiislwcl
tho organ. •
This orgnn produces the l[leutiment ofVenerntion in gene·
ral, and the tendency to worship. It is n mere impulse,
however, nnd if the understanding be limited, nnd no rcvc·
lation hnve reached the individunl, the unfortunate being
may worship the genius of the storm, the source of light
and heat, or even brute1, stocks and stones.
It has been. said thnt with this orgnn man bas no need
ot a rnelation. But Dr. GnU hns well remarked thnt it
wu abaolutel7 neccasnry to fit mnn for the reception nf
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
VENEJ\.\TION. 195
revebtion ; if Vcncrntion be of itself blind, nothing is more
rensonnblc thnn thnt it should recch·o guidnncc. From
this orgnn he drnws nn nrgumcnt to the existence of God.
Destructiveness is implnntcd in tbe mind, nnd nnimnls exist
aroumt us to be killed for our sustcnnnce. Adhcsh·cncss
and Philoprogcnitivcucss nrc gin'n, nn~l fl'icnds and chil-
dren nre provided ns objects on which they mny be exercised.
Rcnevolt~nco exists, nud tho unhnppy ant\ unfortunate nro
f'vcry where nrouml us, on whom its benign fllt1innco mny
ho slwd. So mtm hns tho instincth·o tClllloncy to a,\urc,
nm1 we mny rcusonnbly infor thnt a God exists ns its ol1jcct.
This nrgnment hns, ofcourse, only the force of an unnlogy.
You perceive this region ,·cry much dc,·clopt'd in King
Robert llruce, who mnnifc~tt~d the t'hculty strongly. Dc-
nc~olcncc wns rnther smnll in him, nnd he stainctl his munc
by mnny acts of crudty nnd mnny unneces:!nry executions.
nut he was nlways devout. He vowed thnt he wouhl visit
Jerusalem, but being nnnble to do so, mnde one of hi:~
bravest }{nights swear to cut out his hcnrt nfter dcnth nnd
cnrry it thither. The henrt wns cut out, but thu 1\.night WtUI
(,iJicd on the journey. 'l'hc body of llruco W0$1 in pnrt, re-
-cognised by the ribs h:wing been sawn nway on the left sitlc.
Compnrc the hencl of Bruce with this of 'l'hurtcll, in whicla
it i~ very smnll. Recollect thnt you must mcnsure the clc-
vntionofthe orgnn nbo\·e n plnnc pns~ing through the frontnl
nnd pnrietnl protuberances; bccnuse, if Firmness nud Be-
nevolence be very lnrge, it mny seem depressed, when it is
in fact considernble.
This orgnn is rcprc$entc<l large in the portraits of emi-
nently religious persons. It is represented ns very lnrge in
this bend of Christ, by Rnphnel. The pnrts behind the
ear, or the organs common to mnn nnd the lower nnimnl£1,
nrc amnii; whereas the orgnns situnted in the foreht>nd nnd
coronnl region 1uu very lurgc, indicating ~rrcnt intellect
nnd cxnlted Benevolence nnd Vencrntion. I>r. Gnll put•
this question : llns this divine form been invcutct.l, or mny
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
100 Y£NF.R.\TION.
we presume.that it is n filithfu) COJlY of tlw original 1 It is
JtOssiblc, he coutinuct~, thnt nrti$tS may have imitated the
heud!t of the ritost virtuous, just nml benevolent men, and
thenee clrnwn the hcncl·nf .Christ. llut it is more probable
t 1mt the general figure ofthe head of Christ hns been trans·
mitted to us. 8t. Luke wns a painter, 1uul how should he
fnil to preserve the fcntures of his l\Int~tcr t It is certnin thnt
this form of the head ofChrist is ofvery high antiquity: we
find it in mosaics, and in the most ancient paintings. The
Gnostics of the second century possessed images of Jesus
amcl of St. PnuJ. lie concludes, therefore, that neither Rn·
phncl nor nny other nrtist invented this atlmirable configu·
rntion.
1\letaphyt~icinns in general do not ndmit nn original ten·
dency to worship. 'Ve perceive order, benuty, harmony,
power, \Yisdom nnd goodness, say they, in the works ofcrcn·
tion, nnd infer the existence ofn Supreme Creator nnd Di·
rector, whom we thus feel constrained to admire nthl ndore.
We admit that the undcm;;hmclingofmon sees through Nntmc
up to Nl\ture's God. llut there it stopi'l. It perceivell fncts
and drnws inferences, but docs not feel emotions. Phren·
ology, thetefore, goes further, nnd proves the existence of n
aentitnent the tendency ofwhich i11 to odor~. And that our
view is correct, the univerttnl prevnlence of this tendency
fully · rroYea-'Vhcre the understanding is feeblest the
emot\on ii of\en tho strongest. 1\lcn cut down brnitches
from .treea and worRhil, them; they hew out n rutlo figure
oncl ndoro it; they prot~trnte themselves before reptiles nnd
m~nsten-fttet~ .utterly incompatible with the notion thnt
man worships oe the r~sult of n process of reasoning.•
• D11rham, Paley and othon, who attempt to prove ngnin11t 1\thci~tt." the
es11tenee of God, commence by showing, thnt on c:otnmining n wnteh.
erothor pieoe of n\cchnni.-m, we l'crecive mnnifc!lt:ttion>~ of dc11ign, oud
intelli1enc:e. Transferring the idens tim• obtni~cd, to !lll}wrnlltllnll thing11,
they eonltrnc:t tho ih'lowing lyllogiem: "\Vhlltovor iudicntce mnrks of
deiip mut have had an intellipnt author. rheworld indicates mnrks
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
VENEI\.\TION. • 197
1'his nrgml gives respect for ngo nml tlctcrcncc townrd
5Uperiorll in rnnl(. In children it is n chief ingredient in
filinl piety, nnd produces thnt soft nnd nlmost holy re\·erence
.with-which n child loolts up to its pnrent. lf this urgnn be
smnll, but Benevolence nnd Adhesiveness large, childreu
mny live with their pnrents os friends nnll be to them very
kind nnd nttcntive; but there will be little oftbnt dcfcrentinl
of design; therefore, The world must hn.ve had nn intelligent author."
I shall not stop to question the ndmissiuility of such tr:msft!reuce, but re-
mark, that, to snpport the conclusion, it is ob,·ioul!ly necessary that the
argument be tln1s lnid down or mulen:tood: whate\·er indicates m:vks
of ~11pcrhrunan de!lign, must hnve hnd nn intelligent, ,.ptrlaumm& author.
The world exhibit~ marks of 811Jitrhumt1H design; th<'rcforo: ':fhe world
must h:t\'tl hn.d .an intdligent, supcrlucma11 author. But •o statctl, it i.aJ in-
n.dmi$Siblc rut proof against thu ntheisL For whnt is :m argument? lim-
ply nn expre11sion in which from something laid down as granted. eome-
thing elseis deduced, it is nmode of pro,·ing that what isatlmittcd to be tnce
of a certain term, is nl11o true of a subordinate t~rua, by showiu~ that tho
latter is in f.1ct contained in tbe former; thn!l when we tcny, 'Every man
is mortal. Thomas isn man ; therefore: Thomfts i:~mortnl. Ir the mao-
hood of Thomas he admitted, it is evident that the conclusion"Thomasi:!l
mortal" is virtually n::;.qortctl in tho propo11ition, "Every m;m is mortal."
Seeing that Thomas is one of that cln~:1 of whom mortality is univer;qalJy
affirmed. . So when it is nll:lerted by these writers that whatever t~howa
marks of design mn11t have had 1\11 intelligent nuthor; ftnd that the world
shows marks ofdesign, they virtually ns..~~rt that the world had au iuteJ..
ligent mathor. But this is a.csnming thnt to bo true, which tbe atheists
deny, nntl which, in fnct, i11 tho very proposition thnt they them~h·a.
proteutl to bo e11tablishing. In 11hort tho ntMnpt. to n~ccrtnin in this way
the being of n (~otl, is merely n tnntologicnl piny of wordll; innttmuch
as his being must bo llrOVctl, bcfi,ro thu premi~cs can bu lnitl down.
Some hnvo nflirmed thnt without rl·,·clatiou tho idon of God would
never hnvo been posses:>ed by m:m, nucl that hi~t po~~t~C~ion of it prov~
revelntion to be true. But the nuivertoal, ever-existing belief in llim, ia
strong presumptive evidence n~niu~tt such a concha..•ion. It appenn to ·
me thnt the iden uece!l..ocnrily springs from the ncth·ity of tho faculties.
\Vo ob..erve, for inst:mce, the constrnctiou of the human henrt, and ita
contmctions. \Ve obaen-o tho blood coul"lliug from the heart tbrouch
tho arteries to tho circumference of the botly, nnd returning through 1he
•eins; and iu ;he veiua we perceive vnl\'ea. Now, Cl\usnlity inetinetiYe·
ly recognizes efficiency in the arteries nod vei111 to convey the blood, ef..
17*
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
198 • VENERATION.
ngnrd-that submitting of their will to that oftheir parents
-which we witness na the result of the former combi.
untion.
Venerntion is conspicnous in the head~ ofthose who hnve
gr~nt reverence for whnte~er is nncient nnd vencrnble, nnd
who continuully tnlk about 'the wisdom of their ancestors.'
You in this country seem. to have little respect for the wis·
fieieney in the ntves to prevent its regnrgitntion, and efficiency in the
eontrnction of the hearno occatoion its propulsion. But it goes fRrther,
and, in ~irtue of its very constitution, infen that of the tubes, the valves
and the heart, themselve11, there mnl!lt have been on efficUnt antuedt11t, .
and tbot thisantecedent, to be efficient, mm•t have been intelligent. Then
we have a f."\culty including, ns the evidence proves, in the 11phere of
its activity, loYe of the l!lnpernntural, nnd another giving the tendency
tn adorlt; theote would greatly aid in fixing on this antecedent the ntten·
tion of intellect. '
Oftl1is efficient, int!!lligent antecedent of them~lves, men wonlt1ne-
ec!'l~nrily form "very «lilli!rent conceptions according to the development
and enlightenment oftheir intellectunl :md moral powen. Some would
indeed, rcprt'eellt him M fickle, vain, proud, partial, revengeful, blood-
tbinty, tittle better, in fitct, thnn nn almighty demon. Yet I" think it
at might be 11hown that the ide11 of God, ns revenlr.d to 111 hy Christ. is
anch u would be nltimntely formed by men of capacious, well-bulanced,
active and highly enlightened intdlertual, nud moral fncnhie11. This,
however, militnte11 not ngnim•t either tho utility or neccs~ity of revelation,
for, to use the words or Bishop Butler, II Though naturnl religion is the
foupdation and principal part of Chri:~tinnity, it is not in :my sense
the whole of it."
But if the belief in the being ofa God 11prings from the activity ~f the
human facultiee; how is it, it mny be asked, that some deny His ex·
istence? Tbe solution mn~t be looked for in idi(ll'yncracy of organi7.n·
lion. There nre men who cnnnot perceive coloun, othen who cannot
pereein melody, othel'll who cRnnot perceive the dependence of an cf·
feet on a cau~~e, othel'll who fue1 not the impnl11ea or Conscienc~ or Ur.nev•
olence; ther11 nro idioh4, imbeciles or manincs; hut the:~o form tl1e ex-
eoptione to bo ncconntcd for, not the in11t:mces to be brought into tho
proof ofany gencrnl propo11ition.
· Iftheee 'fiews be correct, the endenvonr tn prove the o:tistence ofthe
. Deity ia Dol nry ditforcnt from an attempt to pro\•e tho nistence of
~1· ·Not moro ~nn one iu teD thoniiUld wonld need any proor,
·Rcl OD dht nnderetnnding of the ten thousandth the argnment itself
..
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
VENERATION• 109
. dom ofyQur ancestors; perhnps there is no country in \vhich _
this direction of the feeling is l•!~s prevnlenL Sen·nnt~ in
whom this organ is lnrge l}re the mo~t obedient nnd defer-
ential. ·
This fi\culty inspir~s the. beholder with profound n\ve
when gnzing on nncient temples, cath~drals or sepulchre!.
A person in whom it is small would experience Jiulc f'mo-
timr even while gazing on \\'estminster.Abbey, with nil it~
monuments of dt.•partcd g~nius. Yenerntion is one ingre-
dient inthe tendency to nntiqunriani!lm.
You bnve doubtle~s henrd that phrenology is hostile to Re-
lirrion. This hns often amused me when I think thnt it i::~ the
0 .
first syt~tem of mentnl philosophy which has recognised nn
innnte titcnlty giving n tendency to ndore. Dut we must
distingui!h between Reli~ion nnd Creeds. The lntter are
merely stnndnrds of belief formed by ti1en ns fttllible ns our-
selves, from their own interpretntions of Scripture. 'J''hA
Scotch Confession of 1-'nith, for exnmple, contains the
established creed of the National Church. Now the arti-
cles ofthis crl!ed were ntloptt!d by n mnjority ofvotes: thus
they determined, hy two or three of n majority,perhnps, whnt
wns nncl what was not the will of God. The sentiment of
wonltllhlllike idle nml incomprehcnsihl~ !'OIInds. Thou~b I would not,
thcro:fore, engage! in such <l!l argument. I would, in the training of yontli.
continually refer to the power, wi~dom and goodne~ of the Crt!3tnr, .-
m:mifested in his works, from the ~ra~>~ on which we tread, to tho ,·ast
and glorions orb~ which roll through immensnrnblespace. I would do thi>l,
not for the pnrpo~e of proving IIi:~~ existence, but as the beit means ofcul-
tivnting the·faculties in hnrmnny with the religious !ll!lltimeut, tuo•md
which all trnth should he gatlu•.rcd. f.!'pecially would I point out. in
human mut external n:llure, cvidenceg of the monl ~ovemmeut of God.
of the invnrinblencs.<~ of IIi" hw~<, nnd of the sanctions by which lie en-.
forces their observance. For the laws of nature are no lellll Ji,·ints than
ti~A!OC of rl'velntion, nud the t•Rt~UL TRUTR,t:mght not only by tlfe Di·
vmu teacher, bnt h.\' Nature. with her tlum11and voices, is, that however
THE WILL OF TIIF. FATIIF.R may hP. lll'IUifel'tNf, to COtlfnnu \O it is lllilll':l
highest dnt 1·
a • • Y, us mn~t efTectnal menus of moral advancement. of p~wnt
ud ultnu:ue happine;~S.
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
~BNERATION.
_ Veneration gives us a ten4enoy to love God and submit
ourseiYes to Ilis. will: but it does not direct us to any par-
ticular creed, nnd we lmve as much right to follow tho dic-
tntcs of our own understandings in interpreting ScriJlture,
ns the Divines of 'Vestminster hnd who formed the Scotch
confession ofFnith, or any. other Divines ancient ormodern.
To ·rmy thnt phrenology is hostile to Religion, however,
is ns absurd ns to nffirm that the discoveries of Newton put
out the light ofthe sun.
This organ is larger in women than in men-and they
nre more obedient and more prone to devotion. In mis-
fortune, too; they submit with n better grace. When Iorge in
n prc~cher, it is manifested in prayer by the soft breathing
fervour of his tones; \Vhen small, his prayer:s are cold and
formal.
Some seem to tremble for the stability of Religion ; but
ns Nature hns implunted the orgnns of Veneration and 'Von·
der in the brain, and the corresponding sentiments in the
mind, it is a groundless terror to npprehcnd that Religion
cnn ever be extingui~hed, or even endangered, by the argn·
ments or ridicule of the profime. Forms of ·wor~hip may
ehnnge, l,lnd particular religions tenets may now be fashion·
able and suhscq1iently fall into decay, but while the human
l1eart continues to bent, nwe nntl veneration for the Divine
Being will animate the ~oul ; not until the rnce of mnn be·
comes extinct, will tbc worshipper cense to kneel and the
hymn of adoration to rise.
Som~timcs this orgnn becomes diseased, nnd is thea OC·
cnsionnlly the source ofthe most beatific emotions. In 1\lr.
Drury's establishment near Glasgow, I snw, in 1836, n
patient whose tendency to prnycr, when labouring under n
fit oCinsanity, was irresistible. In his bend I found Venera·
tion amnii: yet he was un his knees all day. Th111 was
thought to he ·an opposing fuct ; but this patient hnd a
lucid interval, when I conversed with and asked him
whether he enjoyed his devotional exercises \Vhen excited.
o; tized 'YGoogle
FIR)lNESS. ~Jl
"No," ~aid. he,'" 1 do not; I feel very unhnppy-nnd I
pray that I mny not be visited by Divine wrath." Cau-
tiousness nod Destructiveness were vt•ry l1uge in laim ; nnd
my belief is thnt he felt overpowering terror, nnd thnt in his
J•raycrs ho'wus deprecating puni:~hmcnt. Mr. Drury him-
self becumc suti~fied thnt this wnA the true explanation.
'I'he nntural language of Veneration ~~ to corry the head
and hunds upwnrd.* ·
1. !\lr~. 11.
"irmncss smrzll. Conscicn·
tiousne$s lt&rgc.
15. FtRl.'tiNE88.
2. David Haggart.
.14
3. John Gibson•
Firmness large, Con1cim· Firmnus tutd Coasciell
tumsness snudl. · tiou.sness small.
'l'ms organ is situated nt the posterior pnrt of the coronal
rcginn, close upon the middle line. Yon cnn readily dis-
tingui!llh the middle of Cautiousnc~s: this organ lies direct-
ly upwards from it. I shnll cxhil>it l'pecimcns of thi:t organ
in very difl'erent deJ:rrecs of den·lopmcnt. In this bend of
Mn•. H. Conscientiousness is large nnd firmness very lle-
ficicnt. In Ilnggart you sec Conscientiottsness very de-
ficient and Firmncs9 very large. In the Rev. l\lr. l\Inrtin
both m·J:rnns nre much clcvelopcd ; nnd you perceive that this
part of the coronal region constitute~ n large and full nrcb.
• 1 kuew a sailor, in whom both llencvolcncc nnd Vencrntion were
very large; who, when intoxicated, wa~ particularly kind and genert:~aa
in his manners, nud who would kneel down nnd pray aloud, in the
tnoet fervent though unconnected manner
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
F~MNE88•
. Contrnst these two bends. In Captain Parry the head
grndunlly rise11 from before backward. In Dr. Dodd, in
whom both these organs nre very deficient, the head is
ltigber· in front than behind. In Oberlin, Firmness is very
Jarge. This is nn extraordinary bend; nod his history ex-
ltibits n most delightful exnmvlc of undaunted perseverance
in n conl't'c of high and practical benevolence. This orgnn
is·nlwt\ys lnrgc in stubborn nnd refractory children. He
who is deficient in it is the sport of external circumstances
nod communicated impressions. Wheti large, it gives fo~­
titude, coostnocy, perseverance, determination ; nnd, when
too energetic, produces obstinacy, stubbornness, infatuation.
Firmness has no relntion to external objects; it only ndds
n quality to the mnnifestntionlf of other orgnus. Thus
with Combativeness it produces determined bravery-with
Conscientiousness inRc~xiblc integrity. Firmness, however,
cnnn.ot supply the ddicicncy of other orgnns. One with
"fcry small Tune might pcrscv('re in sh·ikiug the keys of a
pinno seven yenrs without mnking melody. 'Vo mu~t dis-
tinguish between the mnnifestt\tiun of Firmne!ls and the
· p;rt\tifiention of tho lnrgc nrgnns. An intlivitlual in whom
Acquisitivbness is lnrgc mny persevere unct!asingly in the
pursuit of weulth, but in the memu• emplnyctl he will be
vacillating nnd unsteady. This organ is lurger in the Brit·
ish tbnn in the French, and the latter ore astonished nt the
stubborn perseverance of the former. Napoleon complnincd
or tho wenlmess of thu French character in thi:t respect.
Under the influeuc~ of lnrgc Combativeness nod smnll
Cautiousness, they mal\c tho most cheering nntl vigourous
ottocka ; but, if Htendily resisted, their ardour nbntcs nnd
they give way. The British, on tho contrary, ntlvnnce with
cool determination, nnd, although repulsed, arc not diacom·
fited, but preserve presence of mintl to cxccuto whntever
maj nppenr mc;>st ndvisnble. 'rhis qunlity is of grcnt ser·
Yice in contention, ns he who is nble to mnintnin bis.fucul-
.tiuin a atate of Yigourous application for tho greatest length
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 203
of time wearies out his opponent. · Firmness is large, as
·you see, in King Robert Bruce; nnd he wns distinguished
for unshaken firmness in circumstances in which hope must
hn\'e been very nearly extinct. His nrruy wns sometimes
reduced to twenty men ; but still he pursued his course witb
unwavering confidence.
Firmnes~ when prominent, gives 1m extremely firm up-
right gnit, ns though an iron rod went from it through the
spine ; it impnrts n peculiar hardness to the mnnner, nn.d n
forcibJc, cmphntic tone to the voice. Those in whom it nnd
Self-Esteem nre large, nnd Veneration smnll, find it difficult
to bow-they nrc 'stiff-necked.' Those in whom Love of
Approbation nnd Venerution nre lnrge, nnd Firmness small,
arc ever bowing-they seem to find it difficult to keep
straight.
1(). CossciENTIOUS:'<IE$S.
The skull which I hold in my hand represents the mark-
ing of the hend in 1806. In it there is no orgnn of Con-
scicntiousnc!4~ ; the spncc now occupietl by it, bt•ing left
blnnk. 1'his or~:m, in filet, was not dil!covercd by Gnll, hut
·by Spurzhcim. It is situated on the posterior and InternI
pnrts or the coronnl region, upwnrd from Cnutiousucss and
bnckwnrd from Hope. (Sec tl1c three last figrlrtl.)
1\letnphysicinns have disputed whether a sense of moral
obligation is n nnturnl instinct: Hobbes ascribes it to Self.
Lo\·c ; 1\lnudcville, the mathor of the celebrated ' Fnble of
the llces,' to Love of Prnisc: "The morol virtuet~," said
he, " nre tlio political offspring which flnttery b~got upon
pride." Dr. Clnrltc nscribed it to perception of Fitness of
Things: he is SUJlJlOSCd to hnvc been the object or Field-
ing's sntire in the clmrncter of 'Squnre,' Humo nscribed
this sentiment to n perception of Utility-thus placing man
on n level with n chest of drnwers; Pnlcy to Hope or Eter·
nal Rewnrd; Cudworth, Hutchesou, Stcwnrt, Brown aud
Reid iDaiated on a moral sense; 1\lclntosh denied it, and
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
•
CONSCI flNTIO\It!INEHil.
Adnm Smith nscribcd the sentiment of justice to sympnthy.
between the u.pprover nnd the nction nnd object npproYed.
Phrenology, by fixing thi.s single point, hns conferred n
grent boon upon mornl science. It provcl' thnt n fuculty
exists which producc11 the feeling of duty or of oblig1ttion,
independently of fcur of punishment, hope of reward, or
any other extrinsic motive, 'l'his sense of mornl obligntiou
must not be confoundpd with J usticc, for J \Uitico is one of ite
results. · Justice is u .compound itlcn, or conclusion result·
ing from tho opcrnti~n of the intellect upon humnn nctiom1.
The Iutter inve!Jtigntcs the motives nnd consequences of
actions. Dut there it stops no feeling of duty or ohli·
attion is the result. llut nssoon ns tho intellect lms thorough· ,
Jy exnmincd u.subject nnd penetrated into the springs from
'vhich it proceeds, n feeling of llecided npprovnl or con·
«lemnntion nrit~e:t spontnneously in the mind. Supposl·
you were sitting on n jury : when you henr the evidence, tt
feeling arises in the mind that this i~:~ right or thnt is wrong.
The intellect sifts testimony and drnws inferences. Con·
ecic,mtiousncll8 decide!& upon the right. I know this to be
true, because I have been ncquaintc<l with men of grent in·
tcllcctnul· talents, who, after benring testimony, could not
tell where justice loy.
This fhcuhy controls nnd r~gulntes all the other~. 1f
Combntivcnct~s and Destructivcnct~s be too nctive, Consci·
entiousnc:ts.ptescribcsa limit to their iudultrcnccl; it llCrmit!l
defence, but no mnliciouR nggrcflsiou. If Acquisitiv<'I\C!I:o
urge ·too keenly, it reminds us of the ri~ht~ of othcrit. If
Benevolence tends toward profut~ion, it issues the·ndmoni·
tion Be Just before Generous. If ldcnlity at~pires to it:oo
high delights when duty requires laborious exertions in on-
other sphere, Conscientiousness supplies the curb, and bid•
• the soaring spirit stoop its wing. It brings nll the fnculti<•t;
to the etondord of duty, and gives nn earnestness of man-
'Der-a directness of purpose-a prompt fulfilment of obli-
ptiou-wbich constitute that doily beauty in the lifo·\Yhieh
Digitized by Google
CO~SCtF.NTIOU~NF.S!'.
rt•ntlcrA tho indh·itlunl in the higlwst degree useful nnd re·
r;pr.ctnble. Ir Benevolence. be deficient, however, duty is
not only rigidly performed but rigidly exneted. There is
. little or no cou~idcrntion for the errors or follies of men ;
ju!'tiec 111 itot t<'Ul}Wf('tl with mercy.
An itulh·itlunl in whom this fnculty is wcnk, gct\ernlly net11
nnd jtulgcil of othcrs.nccording to the prctlominnnt feeling
nl' thl' time. lie is nmiablt~, !'~tern, hnrsh, courtMutt, or re-
pulAiV(', nccording n11 Bcno\'olcnce, Destructiveness, 14ove
nf Approbntion, or Sdf·F.~tccm, bcnrs rul<'. Such men
nro n~vcr to he rclic«l on. As judges th('y nrc unsount1, ns
friend!! unren~onnbll', ns ~t'llcrtt upt to misr<'prt·~ent nnd
r.:ttort, n11 buycrl4 to tlcprt~dnte nnd C\'Rtlc pnym~nt.
So fur from the I~nws of I[onour, ns they nrc cnlle<l, being
prompted by Conscientiousness, they cnn only exist whel'l"
it is wcnk. 'fhey nm the ofi'::pring of Lo,·c of Approbation
nntl Self-Esteem. 'fhc consc.icntious man, if coti$ciou~
nf being right, will remnin inflcxiblt•; but if uwarc thnt
be is wrong, sn fitr from tlccming it n dcgrnlll\tion to nc·
knowlctlgc his fnult, Ill' ri~l'R in his own cstct'Hl by doiu~r
so. Uut when Conscit•ntiousnc~s is wcnk, Sclf-Estl'Cnl rc-
fnscl1 to ndmit its filllihility, 1.0\·c of Approbntion feel~
us though the world's c!'tccm woultl be lost by such an ne-
knowlcdgcment, ntul the wrt:tchcll \'ictim, rather thnn owu
thnt to be wrong which is uttt•rly iaulcft•nsibll', will go to the
fil'ltl nnd di<'.
'l'o tho:to in whom this fitcuhy is small, no fc<•ling is tuort·
incomprchcn~ihk•. According to l\laulmnc de Stni.H, ~n­
poleon wns ne\'cr so complctdy nt fimlt, ns when he tnPt
with opposition from n mnn who nctccl under the inftut'neo
of pure integrit~·· To obtain the nid of such n pcrPon, he
offered him money-no, thnt would not dn. Ho ofrt'red
him title-no, thnt would not tlt•cidc him. lie thC'n n~kcd
him what ho did wnut. Tile mnn snid he wuntcd nothing,
but thnt he could not consent to do whnt lw cont~idcl't'd
wrong. Nnpoleon could not undcrPtnnd this mul con~idt't'f'd
18
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
. CQNSCIENTIOUSN£88.
him essentially mn«l without knowing it. It is n fnvou.rit..-
mn:dm.with some thnt" Every mnu hns his pricc"-n mnx-
im \\'hich those in whom Acquisitiveness or JAO\'C of Ap-
probntion is Jnrge nnd Conscientiousness smnll consider n~
profoundly dh•criminntive; but there ore minds whose de-
Yiation from .rectitude no price can purcbose, no honour!!
procure.
Veneration, Conscientiousness nnd Benevolence may
exist independently. Their union forms the religion of da<'
Bible, na cxprea~Jed in the command to do justice, love mer-
cy 1_\nd wnlk humbly with God. Those in whom this com·
hination exists in predominant nctivity, nre, to use the
langu••ge of St. Jlnul, 't\ lnw unto themselves.' 'l'hose in
whom it is deficient nrc totnUy unfit to be so. This showt~
the nbaolutc necessity of written Jnws by which to direct
their conduct.
In disease, this orgnn produce exccflsivo remorse. ~\
elcrgymnn believed himself the cnU!'C of nil the bloot.lslll'cl
· in the wnra of the 1-'rcnch Revolution; mad n mnn, whn
~wed notbing, believed thnt he wns indebted to every body.
and dese"ed to be devoured by rnts.
;This faculty nnd Benevolence produce gratitude. It ill
R mistake to suppose thnt great criminals necessarily feel re-
. morse. I tnlked to Hnre when in prison; nnd, notwithstnnd-
i~g hie Atrocious deeds, he did not feel remorse in thl'
•lightest degree. Bellingham did not feel remorse, nor wnl'
the \Yomnn Gottfried troubled till disturbed by tho 11\W. In
HRggnrt, Benevolence wns rnther Jnrgc, nnd ho felt grcnt
regret for having murdered tho jailer nt Dumfries; but,
Conscientiousness being amnii, he felt uo remorse on nc·
count of the thefts which he hod committed. 'l'hia organ ·
communicates a pleasing simplicity to the mnnners, nnd
~Yee an uprightnesa to the gait.*
• CoDICience iuaid to be a treacherous monitor, inasmuch 1111 Lero,..
the eommilaion or crime, it warns us only in tbe gcntle!lt whU.pel'!l, bnt
afterward11 nitell it11 aeent~inl Toice like thunder. Thill i" eftllilyftnd hctm·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
207
tilitlly cxplametlhy th!! Jlllrtmologicnl tloctrint', thnt tho organs or the dif.
fercnt li•cnltie.a, nrc not 1\IWI\YI in nu equnlly active !Illite, but como into
ar.tivity ~eri4•tim, either from intcrnl\l camaea, or as thoy mny be affected
by external circmuatnncc11. The doctrine is, that rroviousl~· to the com-
mi.'l!.lion of crime, tbe tnopcnsitica leading to thnt crime, 81\: iu a hishly
nctive stnte; but no sooner o.rethese gratified, than a rencrion.t:akes place;
the propensities, wenried with long exertion, become dormnnt, and the
u1orol powers coming into activity,lb.ow uathe enormity we have been
«uilty of, in all ita horrors £4. PAma. JOtlntlll
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
IIOR
LECTURE VIII.
17. HoPs.
TJi1s organ ita situated oa ench side of that of Venera-
tioo, nnd before thnt of Conscientiousness. Dr. Gall did
not discover it, but left the region which it occupies blank
a••d marked with a note of interrogn.tion. Indeed, be cou-
atidcred Hope os R mode of activity of every primitive
faculty; in this he confounded Hope with Desire. The
criminal on the scnffi,ltl mny h:wc nu earnest desire to live,
w-laen hope hns utterly fled.
Hope ·gives·the tendency to belic\·c in the future uttnin-
mcnt of whnt the other faculties desire. 1'1ml4 u pcrsuu
with Hope large, joined to large Love of AplH·ub~tion, will
expect to rise to distinction-to large Acquisitiveness, will
expect to become rich. Hope is n powerful allcvintor of
~tftliction. and n copious source of enjoyment. It inspires
with gny, fuscinnting emotions ; and paints the future in
hues of enchanting brilliancy. If Cuutiou!'lncss be small,
nnd Hope large, the individual is gay, careless, happy for
the pnssing duy, and regardless of the future-or rather,
Hope supplies his future with every desirable thing without
suggesting to him the toil nnd difficulty of attainment. If
tbe contrary combination exist, then is the future hung with
clouds and darkness; the present is not (!Ujuycd, on ac-
count of the evils which Cautiousness nnticipntc:J, but which
llrobnbly never nrrivc. .
· In mercantile men, Hope joined to deficient Coutiou!·
nen lends to rash speculations. With such n combinotion,
they aee nothing in its true light. Advnntnges nre magni-
fied nnd difficulties nre unperceived. If Conseiousnc&Js be
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
HOPE.
deficient, suc.h men are generally great promisers. They
will engage to do nny thing required of them, some three or
four months hence ; nnd when the three or four months are
gone by, and their promises nr~ unredeemed, they nre a$
ready as ever to promi$e Ob"ain, thus they will go on pro-
mising positively to n11 eternity, if you will only nllow thclU
three or fc)Ur months for their promises to run. I would
recommend men in business, who may hnvc to deal with
persons ~f this clas~, always to judge for themselves as to
the probability· of their keeping their word, and act accord-
ingly. The combination of large Acquisitiveness with Inrge
Hope and deficient Cautiousness lends to gaming; on the
other hand, if Acquisitiveness be lnrge, joined with Iorge
Cnutiousness, the motto is 'A bird in the hand is wonh
two in n bush,' nnd saving is resorted to.
llopt•, in religious matters, i:s nn essential element of
faith, and tends to lessen or remove thnt 'Fettr of Deuda~
which is to mnny minds so iittcnscly pninful. Some pcr-
~ons under .its intlucnce seem .incapable of renlizing the
approach of dissolution, nnd uctually die by inches, per-
suading. themselves all the while that they nre in a fnir way
to recover, till death has extinguished the last ember of the
feeling.
An argument of no small weight nnd benuty has been
drnwn, from the existence ofthis feeling·in the humnn miJJd~
in fiwor of a future life. It seems to have direct reference
to a future ~tate, and naturally leads the mind to anticipa-
tions which the present world con never reaJize-to spring
fimvnrd to something far remo\·ed in the deep recesses of
time. We find that every other feeling hns itsobjectsto which
it:1 full energies cun be directed : Philoprogeniti\•eness ex-
ists, nnd we huve children on whom to lu\'i~h its endenr·
ments; Adhesiveness, nnd friends surround u:t on every
11ide. Is Hope the exception to the rule t Is there not a
future \\'o; 1:1, to which its bright anticipations, I!O fnr beyond
the realities of the present, benr the enme relation, and
18• .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
~10 WONDER.
where the 'longing after immortality' will be realized t
Pope has .seized this ideu, nnd thus expr.esses it:
"Lo ! the poor Indian, whosc untutored mind
.Seoa God in clouds, or l~eul'lJ him in the wind-
llis aoul,·proud .ICience never taught to atrny,
Far. n11. the Solar walk or Milky Way :
Yct ~timplo Nature to his llope has given,
Behind the clond-cnpt hille, nu bumbler heaven;
Some anfe_r world, in depth of woods embraced;
Some happier island, in the watery wll8te,
·Where elave• once moro their native land behold.
No fiends torment, no Christians thirst for gold."
The idea is tbnt as this titculty exists and relates to fu-
turity, the futurity exists to which it is related.
In the bend of Rommohun Roy, Hope and Veneration
nre deficient, as you see by this cost, which wns tnken from
Nature; but my opinion is tbnt, though true in other rt~s­
~cts, it represents the bend as too long. 'fhis may have
been occasioned by the joining together of the mould : euch
half mny have been one-fourth of an inch or so too loug,
making half an inch difference nltogether. At any rnte, I
hnve·never seen so long a head. 11he form of it, however,
ie perfectiy correct. The cnst wns given to me by a gen-
tleman who sow it tuken. In 1\lr. 1\lnrtin's head, Hope is
well developed. In this head of a criminal, it is decidedly
•maU.
18. WONDER.
This organ is ai.tunted in front of Hope, nt the side of
· Imitation, and immediately above ldeulity.
Dr. Gnll observed some persons prone to extrovngnut
notions, who pretended to see nod hold conversations with
the dead or absent. . Are they, said he, fools or imposters,
.. or does this depend on cerebral orgnnizntion t He studied
the bittory of those mo~t remarkable for this qunlity, ns So-
crot~a, Tnsso, Swedenborg, and others; e1:nmincd and com·
pared their hcncl~, nnd found a prominence between Ideality
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
WONDER. 211
·and lmitntion. Pursuing this hint, he examined the bends
of the crcdulou:J whenever they fell in his way ; and found
the disposition invnriahly associated with this development.
It i::~ the fc>undatiou of curiosity, and when Jor~c!, produce~
credulity, a teuc.lcncy to be astonished nnd to bclic\·e in
proportion to the iulprol,nb!lity of n narrative; it lends to
()elief in ghosts nnc.l witchcraft, nnd.was the fouuc.lntion of
the Scottish supcr~tition called second sig!tt.•
l\ly own observations in regard to it have been to this ef-
fect: Those in whom I have seeu it large bnve had grent
love of news-~he wonderful nhvnys delighted tbem ; the
novels of the Arabian Nights, the unexpected incidents of
"I am ac<ptnint•!d withag<:lntll!m:m ofgre:lterudition, formerly a Sen-
ntor of New York, and now holding a judicial station, who firmly be-
lieves that he po:>sesscs this extraordinary gift, and that he has held com-
munication with spirits. In him wonder is largely deYeloped.
Soon after Santa Anna entered Texas, this gentleman announceito
a friend, that the Texans bad defeated the )lexican!l, and thllt Santa Ann:.
wns kille1l. \Vhen asked how he knew, he replied that he had seelt
what he !ltated. News !loon came thnt nhont that time the Texarut did
obmin a victory O\"Or the Mexicans, that Santa Anna was taken prison-
er, and had been in great danger or being put to death, a confirmation
tilltlicicutly n<!ar to rcndl!r tho pr<!vious o.S...crtion reruukable.
It appears to me that the above ca!lc may be thus explained. The
gentlem:m knew thllt the Texan:~ had a!lserted their independcncP., th:.t
n :\lexic:~n nrmy had entered Texas for the purpose ofreducing them to
obedience and punishing them for revolt, llaat a battle mu!!t take place.
His large intellectual faculties enabled him to appreciate the compara-
tive firmness, enterprise and daring of the combamuts,. and to llfrh·e :at
tho conclusion that, notwithstanding disparity of nnmber.., the Texan!~
would be \•ictorions. Symplllhy with his countrymen \<ronld probably
aid in the formation of this co:tclu!!ion. So far there i~ merely nn ordi-
n:tr~ ox~rtio~ of the intellectual power~, but instead of the result prc-
~entmg at:telf m the cu~tomnry form, predominating \Vondcr, cans,..d the
autellect to &O vary its usual mode of procedure that for iL• gratificntion.
the .perceptive facnltie11 ltcrcted, as it werf- the re!!t:lts to which the re-
ft~ctive fncnltie!l had arr·v d d ~"-· h" d, b . • ;
1 t e , an 1t1!! aone t em mto a ecene or \"lliton.
t appear. to tne th:~t this explanation may b\1 opp:yed to all the 10 called
t1asaa ofsecond ~tight.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
21.2 WO~DF.R,
the Wnvrrly novel!. were to them n source of extreme plcn-
•••re. 'fhcrc wns n look of wonder nbout _
the couotennnce:
the exterior nngle of the eye wns drnwn upward. Those
in whom I fuuml this organ deficient hnd no such taste ;
their delight wns·tn strip every nnrrntion of the wonderful,
nnd reduce it tr> wlmt they would cull plnin common sense.
I nm tHspn~ed to con11idcr the primary function of this
organ to be tho I~one of the NerD. Chnnge is the chnrncter
oC the world. \Vontlcr is given to put us in hnrmony with
the pcrpetunl •meec·s:lion of new objects which supply the
plnco·of the olt1. Dc~lructivcmess put us in hnrmony with
dccny, Wonder with rcnovntion. 1\lr. llrynnt, I find, hna
noticed the hnrmonious lllltl•benevolent operntion or these
two procest~cs:
".1\fy heart i11awcd within me, wbcn I think
Or lho groat miracJo that o~till gOl'll Oil
In 11ilonc" round mo-the pcrpctnal work
orthy crcntion. fini~hod, yet rouowed
. • For cvor. \Vriucn on thy worlor, I rend
Tht~ lc.won of thy own oternity.
Lo ! oil grow ohl nnd tlio ! Dut see ngnin,
Jlow ou the li1ltcring fnotqtcpll of decay
• Youth pre~!'ic!'-evcr gay nud beautiful youth,
In oil its beautiful formil. ThP.sc-lofty trees
\VR,-e not lc~~ proudly that their oncestora
Moulder beucolh them!''
Ifthis orgnn be, ahl I bcliP.ve, the J.ove of the New, then
its activity is t•robnbly nu element in tlw interest we tukc
in changes of fnshion. 'l'u many novelty is nlwnys plen~t·
ing; a new fatlhion'isadmired nnd thought bcnutiful; nn old
one seems unsightly. 'l'he dress nnd furniture ofthe enrly
part of the reign of George II. excites our surprise ; we
wonder how people could ever ndmire them, yet they were
ndmired when new. Of couNe; there are forms and fi•sh·
ions which oro intrinsically beautiful ; beauty which never
pRIIs, objects over which fat~hion exorcises no control. .~
Chineee ten·pot may be rendered agreeable by fashion, but
.
o; •HzedbyGoogle
WONDER. ~13
will look ugly when the motlc change8; but the exquisite
\':t::c:; dug from Herculaneum, are as much admired now ru;
c\·cr, they please in nll countries nod nil ages.
This fnculty stin1ulntes to tbe love of ud\·enture. Sir
John Ross observed it to be strongly dcl"elopcd in boys who
ran away from home to follow the sea. Some huahrinc
1hnt n \'oyagc, with its hardships nnd dnngcrtl, will ~n
cure the lads of their fimcy ; but in thita they nrc not scldmu
,Jisnppointcd ; the ,·cry dangers hnve a charm in them to a
mind tllll~ constituted.
'l'lac fhcuhy of 'Yonder nids Genius, by prompting it tu
originality ; in ~cott, it was tuuch more ~trongly d<'\·clotlt"d
thnn hll·nlity ; nml the tcndl•ncy of his mind cum·~ponc.J...-d
with the clcn~lopmcnt. This Jcntls me to notice the bc.·a,)
of Sir "'niter which is sold in this country. It i:; a palpa-
hlc fclrgcry. The face illl \·cry like, nnd the ~ncrnl furua
c•orrcct ; lmt the dimensions nrc greatly exng~rcrntec.l, a~
if to excite tlw organ of which we now l!lpcak. I ha\·c St'l'll
~Ctltt n thousand times, and h:we n perfectly exact bust ot"
his bend, moJdlcd by Mr. MacDonnld ; I therefore kno\\"
what I say to be correct.
In its higher degree!~ of development, 'Yonder becomes
a passion for the man·ellous. I know o. very intelligent
· ~cutlcmnn of Etlinburgh, in whose head tbis organ is nry
large ; who rcmarkctl to me that he had often for his part
wondered at J)Coplc requiring cvidt!nce to enable them to
believe. In his own mind the strongc.·:;t intuitive tendency
wns toward belil'f, no matt('r how strange the thing to be
believed. 'Yonder ~hould he ,·ery strongly manifested in
the heads of tho$e persons who cmbrncc rendily aU that is
mystcriout~ in Animal Magnetism.
This is n repr-esentation of the head of 'l'nsso, "·ho be-
lieved thnt he held com·crsc with spirits ; in him Wonder
and ldcnHty are both ,·ery lnrgc. Thit~ i:> tbe hl'nd of Bnrou
Swcdenborg, who believed himsdf called to reveal the most
l1idden mysteries concerning the spiritual world. "In
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
, ·
\\"O~IH:r.,
17.t3,n ll{\id be, "it plcnsed the Lon) to munifest bim~clf to
me, and to appear before me, to give men knowledge of
tlte spiritual world, nnd to place me in communicntion with
nngels amd spirits; and this power has been contin d witb
me till the present dny.n "Swedenhorg," sny his biogra·
phers, "wnl' n man of unqucstionnblc sincerity., hut one of
the most extmvngnnt enthusiasts that ever lived.n I have
.ee·n a number of 8-wedenborg's followers, and this region
is much developed in nll of them. I must ndd that I have
found them to be a mornl and very aminble class of men.
Mr. N- , of whom I hnve before spoken, wns trouhlctl
with apparitions during the lnttcr pnrt of hi$ life. These
gave him amusement at first, ns he wns fully nwnre of their
unreal nature. He \Yould t~ce n long trnin of Grecl~s, th~u
ot.Turka, then of·his own counuymen pus before his eyet~,
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
.I,
WO~U£ll, ~15
each in nppropriatc col'lmue. .\t Jni't one ,·i~iou lll·ctuuc ~~~
tt•rl'ihly l't•nl thl\t he lll'H'r nl'tcrwnrd 11pukc oftht'!';O \'i~itn·
th•ut~. lit! saw his wife, who hml been deml ~ume Yl'n~,
:-lntHling in tho room ; nml so lil'c-lilto wn~ the npJlt.'tUt\llCt'
thnt ho spol'c to ht·r. Sht' wnll\t''' tmnml tlH' winclow: ht•
follmn·d her; it wn~ nut till hi~ hcntl t\1\tl hnud~ crn11hctl
n~ainl't the ~ln~l\ thnt he h<'cmno cnmiucctl of tlw illut1inu.
:\lh·r tlt•nth, theJ1ppcnrnncc of tlu• tlnm umtt•r mHI i'lmll
on~r thi11 ut·gnn i&ulhmtctl thnt chronic intlnmmntion hn,l
l'Xil!tt•tl.
Sir Wnhct· Scott rcmnrks that " no mnn C\'Cr succt.•t•dt.•tl
in impo~ing himsdf upon tho public ns n ~npcrnntural ltt'r·
~onngc, whu wns not ton certain cxtcut tho thtpc of hi~ nwn
imposture.''
'!'here is a grcnt dificrcncc oftlc\·clupmcnt in this n•giuu
nmong difi'crcut nation~. In tlH' ancit!lll Greek t~lwlls it j,.
large; in the Pcrm·inn sk~11ls .it i:~ ~xtrcml'ly Jargc-ntul
they were exceedingly crctlulou~, hiking the 8pnni:ud!>! fc,r
supcrnuttu·nl beings; in the New llollnntlcr:J, on the c,m.
trury, the organ i::~ \'ery smnll. Captain Cook rt•mnrlts thnt
wlu•n his ship went ncar the shore, some nntives were wulk-
ing along; and, though the sight of n ship under !l!lil mu~t
hn,·c been ns strnngc a sight to them, nll n conveynucc from
the moon would be to ns, they hardly stopped nn in~t:mt,
but jnljt glnnced toward it anti trntlgctl on.
The manifestntions of tlai:i sentiment nrc finely dclinented
by Akensidc in his 'Plcnsurcs of the Imnrrinntion :'
. e -
"""itnc!'s the t~prightly joy, when nught unknown -....;_
Strike.s the quick sen!'<', :md wnkcs ea~h active powea
. To brtl'kcr mcn~nrc~. \VitncF~ the n<'glcct
ornil t:unili:ir pro:<pcct~ thunuh beheld
·With ' o
trnnsport~ once; the fond, attcnti\"o ga7.e
oryonng 1\.>tnnil'hmr-nti the ~oher :r.enl
Ofage, commenting on protligions things :
~or such the bounteous pro,·idenee of hea.veu, .
0~:~~ry brcn!.'t implanting the desire
~l'et~ new and strang1•, to urge us 011
o,9,t,zedbyGoo le
116 IOF.ALIT\".
· With nnrcmitlccl l:lhour to lmr,ono
'l'ho~u flltl'recl 11lurc!t thut wnit tho rit,uning 110ul
ln truth'" exhnn!4tlC!I!I bo~om. \Vhat n.ccd of wordt
. To pnint ·i~ ,,ow~r? t'or thi:~ tho doring youth
Ureaks from his woelling mother's anxious anna,
.In foreign climes to ro,·e ; the }lCIL~h·c sago,
llccdle88 ofelect,, or midnight's harmful lamp,
JIRngs oe'r the 11ickly tnpcr; nnd, untired,
Thr. virgin follows, with enchanted step,
Thu mazes ofsomo wild and wondrous talu,
From mom to eve. llenco, finully, by night,
'~'bo villogo matron, round tho blnzing hcnrth,
Sn~tpeucl" tho infhnt nnclicnco with her tnlct,
Drenthing Rlltonishmcnt! of witching rhymes
And evil spirits; of the death-bed call
·Of him who robbed the widow and devoured
The orphan'" portion; of nnquict souls
Ri110n from the gm"e to cnse the heavy guilt
Of deeds in lifo conco:tlcd ; ofshapes thot walk
Attlend of ni~ht, ond clank their chain!!, and WI\Yft
The torch of hell uromul the murderer's bed '
At every solemn pau<ie, the crowd recoil,
G:u:ing coch other specchlc~, ancl congealed
With shivering sigh-till, eager for th' event,
Around the beldnme nil erect they hnng,
Each trembling benrt with grateful terrors quelled."
. .
'fhc nntural language of this orgnn is to turn up tit<'
hand& nnd eyes with o peculiar expression ofastonishment,
nnd to nod the head obliquely upward in the direction of
tbis organ.
19. IDEALITr.
'l'his organ is situated nenrly nlong th~ tempornl ridge of
the frontal bone, lying bnckwnrd and a little upwnrd frotu
Causality. It is important to benr the situation in mind, n<~
this organ has been mistaken for Acquisitiveness. 1'1w
upper pnrt of the side of the bend in Hnre wns very l:trgt·.
·Sir W. HnmiJton and Stone n~tiecd this, nod mnnifct~t£'cl
patgleeat having discovered tbnt so notorious nvillain onrl
murderer. should hnYe Identity large. Being present lt!nw
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
tn'£.\LITY.
thnt they hncl mistnkcu the situntion of tho orgnn. It is
worthy of rcmnrk thnt nnti-phrt.'nologi~ts gencrnlly tnko lit·
tic trtmhlc tn be cot·rect; the~· ~ccm to think thnt the mort)
blunders they commit; the worse it is fi;rphrcnology. When
thc$e gentlemen hall done, I rt•questecl Profesttor \Yil~on,
·who wns nlso present, to ttit clown· besitlo llnrc. 1then drt.'\\'
.a line from Cnusality to Cnutiou$nct~s, on tho Prolctl$or•~
hcnd,nnd nskctl them what they 81\W there. They 1mitl they
~awn witlc uud lnr~c pnrt uf the head nbovc this lint' tuwnnh
the fl·out. I then drt'W n similar liM on tho ltcml of Hare,
and nsl<.ctl them wltnt tlwy ~aw nbo\'C it. They t~nitl tht·y
:-~aw uuthing nt all. lclcnlity being in him rcnlly ,·cry tll·-
1icicnt. 'I'he line reached utmost to the top of the hcnd, the
corounl rc~inn wntt so very shnllow.
'l'hitt rule hciug importnnt, l shttll ~>pend ono mom•nt moa·c
in its t\trthcr illustration. Here ru·e two ht'auls of \'cry tlil\-
tin~uishccl men. I plnce n black string nround cnch. Yon
:<t!C how much Cnuovn hn$ the ntimutn~e oYer Nnpoleon in
this J't.•~ion. Again, see how large in Chnlmers, who hns a
:~plcndid imngination-in \Vord$worth, the poet-in Joseph,
the ~culptor-iu Haydon, the !•h•toricnl pnintcr-in Sir l>u-
Yirl Wilkie, who~o head in other rC$f•ects is n~ry grcn~ntld.
in Voltaire-compared with its development in Franklin,
the Rev. l\Ia·. 1\lnrtin, or Joseph Hume, l\1. P.
Dr. Gnll observed in n friend who hnd n reputation for
t•xtcmpore verses, thnt his forehead nbove the nose rose per-
pendicularly, nnd then retreated,extei1ding itseif laterally in
~uch wny as to give the impression of n piece having been
added on ench side. lie noticed the same developments
in the bu!lts of Homer, 0\·id, nnd othcn. Being invited hy
:\1. Nicholni to sec n collection of thirty poets of different
ages nnd countries, he found this pnrt lnrge in aiJ, though ;
they were in other respects very diffl•rtmt, and he cnllcd it ·
the organ of Pm~try ; but s.,urzheim snw tlmt Poetry is th\!
re~ult of vnrious or..nn!!, and is in fnc~ ,·erv ditlcrcnt in kind;
~ .
this orgnn gives to }>oetry or Pro!lc1 n certnin qunlity of
w
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
218 IDEALITY.
benuty, elegance, perfection or sublimity. lie therefora
called it Ideality. The various perceptions uf the intellect
imbued with this sentiment, nnd expressed in words, be-
come Poetry-if expressed· on cnnvns;s, Pninting-if in
mnrble, Sculpture. Constructiveness would be content
. to fashion nnd configurntc-Idenlity wishes for exquisite·
nctas, beauty, finish, tnste.
There nrc persons very deficient in this orgnu, who de-
claim, ns matter of religious principle, ngninst the objects
of its grutificntion. Dut this is not the language of uuiver·
~nl human n·ature, nor of physical nnture eithP.r. Where
ldenlity exists to n considernble extent, there is on innnte
desire for ~be beautiful, nnd on instinctive love nnd ndmirn·
tion of it. The arrangements of the Creator in the mate· ·
rial world nre so fnr from being in oppot-~ition to it, thnt ob·
jcets cnlculnted in the highest degree to excite nnd grntify
the feeling, nre every where scnttered in the most profuse
abundance. 'Vhnt nrc the flowers thnt deck the fieldta, com·
hioing perfect elegance of form with the most exquisite love·
- · liness, dclicncy, nnd harmony of tint, but ohjccts addressed
purely to Ideality, nnd the subordinnte fnculties of Colour-
ing ond Fsmn t They enjoy not their bcnuty themselve~,
and afford neither fi>od, raiment, nor protection to the Ct>r·
poreal frnme of mnn ; nnd on this uccount some pcrl!ons
have been led to view them ns merely Nnture's vnnitie1:1 nnd
showt~, possessed of neither dignity nor utility. But the
individual in whom Ideality is large, will in rapture 1my,
that these objects and the lofty mountnin, the deep glen, the
roaring catarnct, nnd nll the varied loveliness of hill nnd
dale, rountnin and fret~h shade, afford to him the banquet.of
the mind ; that they pour into his soul a stream or pleasure
so intense, and yet so pure and elevated, that, in compari·
8on w·itb it, nU the grntiAcntions or sense nnd animal pro·
penaity sink into insipidity nod insignificance. In short, to
the phrenologist, tho existence or this fnculty in the mind,
~tnd or external objects fitted to gratify it, is one among
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
IDEALITY. 219
numberless instances of the boundless beneficence of tlaf'
Creator toward man ; for it is a fi1culty purely of enjoyment
-one whose sole use is to refine, und exalt, nnd extend th~
rnugc of our other powers, to confer on us hi~her suscepti-
bilities of improvement, and a kc~uer reJish for nll thnt i::
grcnt and glorious in the .uuiverse.
\Ve find great difiercnce~ in the den·lopmeut ofthis tl\cult~·
in various nation!'. 'fhe nncicnt Greeks posscslietl it largt>.
you see how much this skull extends to the sidc.>s ; this is an-
other; this another. Compare any of these ''"ith this Esqui-
mnux skull, or with this of a New-Hollander, or thi:~ of n
Chnrib. How great the difference ! It is a remarkable fact
that Ideality is almost invariably deficient in ntrociou:'
criminals. This is the bead of one; this of another. \\"e
have more than a hundred, in nil of which the dcficienc~·
exists, with one or two exceptions in favour of 1-~rcnch
criminals.
1 !.ave stated this to be the organ which produce:; ·refine-
ment of feeling, in my own country I have noticed that per-
son!' of low birth, whose talents and industry have rnittcd
them to wealth, are susceptible of refinement in their mnn-
ners, habits, and sentiments, in proportion to th~ den~lop­
tuent of this organ and that of Love ofApprobation. \n,cu
smnll, their primitiv~ condition is npt to stick to thcna
through life; when large, they mnke rapid advances, nnd
improve hy every opportunity of intercourse with their su-
periors.
'l'his sentiment gives to the convcrsntion, in onimnted di~~
course, splendour, sprightliness nnd buoyancy. It gives tnstt-.
in furniture ond dress: an elegant vase, couch or chair, or'
the human form attired in dress in which grace, utility nn<l
beuuty combine, are objects which we delight to se~, nucl
which we feel to be agreeable. The pleasure arising froiu
it is natural, nod of so excellent a quality, as to be npprol·«>ci
by Intellect nnd all the moral powers. ·
As a fine contrast of development, tuke this drawing of
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ID&ALITY•
Chaucer.
Cllaucer, nnd this of Locke, or this of Cobbett who had
no notion of nny thing refined or benutif~tl in pt')t'try or the
arts, nnd ridiculcd·the mnnifestntion of this sentiment.''
• See his remarks on 8hnkspcnre in "Ad,·ice to Young 1\leu," para·
pph 77., and the following remarks on ~tilton's " Paradise Lost."
" It has be~ome oflnte yenrs the fashion to extol potatoe11, as it has been
to admire the writings of l\lilton and Shak~pcnre. God, Almighty and
AU-fore!;Ceing, fint permitting his chief angel to be disposed to rebel
again~t him; his permitting him to enli!<t whole ~<qnadrons ofangels un·
der his banners; his permitting the devils to bring cnnnon into this battle
ill tho clouds; his permitting one devil or angel, I forget which, to be
eplit do\vn the middle from crown to crotch, ns we split n pig; his per·
mitting the two halves, intestines, nud all, to go slap up together ngain
and become a perfect body; his then permitting all the devil host to be
tumbled headlong into a place called hell, of the local situation of which
no mancan have an idea; his causing gates (iron gates too,) to be erec.
ted to keep the devil in; his permitting him to get out neverthel01111, and
to come nnd destroy the peace and happincu of his new creation; hi11
permitting his son to take 11 pair of eompllliSes out ofa drawer to trnce
the· form of the earth; all this, and, indeed, the whole of Milton's poems
ilaaeh barbarouatrash, so outrageously offensive to reason and common
IODM, that one is naturally led to wonder bow it can have been toleMted
b7a people 'm.onget whom astronomy, naviption, and chemistry, are
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
SUDLI~IT\". 221
Ideality is often abused, and t!1en, ns in the ease of Rous-
seau, there is dh:gust for the realities of life. In society, it
and Self-Esteem are generally lnrge in the coteries who are
called exclusives, who consider thems<'lves to be pinks of
perf.;ction, nnd nrc so enamoured of themseh·es ns to think
hardly nny to be fit company for them. 'fo form n correct
iJen of the influence of this f.'lcuhy, compare the prose of
Locke with thnt of Bacon ; the metaphysical writings of
Reid with those of Brown ; or the poetry ofSwift with that
of 1\Iilton.
19.a SuDLIIIUTY.
You find a pnrt situated immediately behind lden~ity
marked in the bust with n note of interrogation. From iu
being sometimes I"mall wh<'n ldenlityis Iarge,nnd largewhen
Ideality is smnll, we conclude tlmt it is the region ofn distinct
·faculty ; ·nnd some filets seem to show that it is the orgnn
which gives the sense of the sublime, while Ideality gives
the seuse of the beautiful. There is much difficulty, how-
ever, in coming to a correct decision; for if we analyze thfl
sublime, we find one ofits clements to be terror, which would
seem to be the result of Cautiousness. 'VIant we want if a
decided instance in which Cautiousness and Ideality are
smnll, nnd this region lnrge. I know a physician in whom
this pnrt is lnrge, while Cautiousness i~ smnll, and Identity
of metlium 11ize, who hns nn intense love of the grand and
terrific. He could spend hours in gazing on a sen-storm,
or listening to the roar of the thunder or the cataract. But,
in his hend, Wonder is large, and that organ may be sup-
posed to nid in producing the feeling. What \Vc still want
understood. But it is tho faahion to tum up the eyes when "ParadiM
Lo1t" ia mentioned; and if you fail l!erein, you want tu&e; you warn
judgment. even, if you do not admire this ab!unl and ridiculous llblft
wbeo, ifooe of your relutiun• were to write a lcuer in the ume Mnia,
JOU would tend him to a mad houae and take hia P.ltilte."
1~
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
~}2 WIT.
'--·'
il5 nn instnneo of a hngo isolated orgnn, where no auxiliory
influence·cxiste.•
20• . WJT.
·'l'his organ is situated on the side of Cnuttality. 'Vhen
}urge it fills· the Intern) pnrt of the superior portion of the
forehead. Dr. Gnll snys thnt the best iden he cnn give of it~
function b to any, thnt it is the distinguishing faculty of Uu-
bclail', Ccrvnntc£1,.Uoilenu, Rncine, Swift, Sterne cmd Yol-
taire. When this development is excessively large, it is at-
tended with n disposition, nppnrcntly irresistible, to view
objt>cts in n ludicrous light. I~nu~hter mny bo produced
without Wit. I· hnve oh~ervcd children in whom Acquisi·
tivcncss is lnrgl', burPt into lnu~hter on hdng sndtlcnly tlre·
ecntcd with m01wy : others who nlwnys lnughcd on nn un· 1
expected prescutution ofsweetmeats; others when suddenly /
t•raised ; those in whom Destructiveness is lnrgc lnugh on ,
seeing (mother uucxpcctcdly injured. A Indy tol<l me thnt I.,
she inevitably laughs when she sees mischief or misfortune, ·,
euch ns a broken leg or n full in the mud overtake one. On
the other hand, there mny be tllllch excellent Wit without
exciting hiughter. Lnughter seems to result, in short, from
a sudden gratification of mnny of the feelings: \Vit, to con·
aist in the-perception of congruity nmid incongruity.
You perceive this orgnn lnrge in the hcnd ofDr. Frnnklin,
forming a .striking contrnst with its development in Joseph
Hume. It is pnrticulnrly lnrge in the bend of Sterne. It
ia large in the bend of Haydon.
No faculty bas puzzled tbe metaphysicinns nod phrenolo·
giall more than thi». nut all phrenologists agree that the
de.-eJopment of this organ gives the sentiment of tbe Judi·
• A,_ beautiful thing, ia a form or expression hnrdly ner need ;
INtthat ora greatugly thing ia very common. There ian wido difference
between admiration and love. The aublilDe which ia the cause of the
fti'IDtl', alwaye dwelll .on peat objectl and terrible. Bva~~:a.
o, •izedbyGoogle
WIT.
crous, nnd disposes to mirth. My opinion is that Wit con-
sists ofnny form of intellcctunl conception imbued with the
sentiment of which thi~:~ is the orgnn.
It hns been n question nmong phrenologists whethe:- tht>rc
is nuy class of external objects related to this fnculty, in the
snmc manner os colours nrc rclnted to the orgnn of Colour.
Some mnintnin that there nrc. A gentleman snid that he
conceived a nose, n night·cllp, a windmill, n sailor with n
"·ooden leg, nud the elbow, to be esscntinlly ludicromt, Thi~
struclt mens n very ludicrous iden. If n nose b~ too long
or too short-if it be n red no!le on n pnle face, oro pnle nose
on n red fnce-it may be ludicrous ; but this nrises from in-
congruity, nud is l>y no mcnns csscntinl ton nose. So a
uight·Ctl}l is not ludicrous in itself, but wh~n 1\loorc in his
Two-penny }lost-bag, mnkes Lord Chnuccllor Ehlon, on
being snddcnly cnllcd to the 1\.ing, enter with his \\"ig
thrown hnstily over his red night-cnp to mnintnin the becom-
ing splendour of his offic<', we feel thnt such n scene would
be ridiculous enough ; but then this ngain nriscs from the
incongruity. To m~ the ludicrous nppenrs to be merely a.
mode of existence of which nlmost nll objects nre suscep-
tible, but which is not characteristic of nny. The nose, for
instance, when symmetrical, aud, in relation to the other fea-
tltres, harmonious in size ond colourin"' nnturt\lly excites ·
~·
the sentiment of the beautiful, nnd calls up feelings, not of
the ludicrous, but of plen~urc nnd admiration.
. Thos~ who h~ve this rcgionlnrgc, seem to ttec e\·ery thing
111 n lUllacrous light, which dc,·intcs from the fit nnd npllro-
priate: And thus, thnt a mnn should wnlk ou n piece of
wood mstcnd .of on a proper leg, nppcnrs to be ludicrous to
some ; hut tlus can only be when the higher sentiments llo
not control. It seems to me thnt the office of this orcr.1n is
to check the other C'. 1· . 0 •
• 1ncu hesm n gentle woy, nnd urrcst thcar
nberataons. · -
1\lr. Fuller in t1 A . .
k • 1e meracnn Phrenologtcnl Journnl, rc-
mar s tbot Wit b .
may e defined to be the perceptton or the
o;9medbyGoogle
l:IIIT.\TIO~~.
pertinent or npproprintc, nnd that tho lmlicrous ~rh~r.t~ from
the perception of incongruity or inndnptntion. Tlms, be
11\Yll,whcn Philopro:gcnitivcm!s:t is mnnifcstcd in ntlcntion to
ehilclrcn, the pc·rtinrncy of the c~xcrci~e is plc:tsing to Wit;
but when the snmc! fc•t!lin~ot i~ lnvit~lwcl upon cats, dogs, or
monkey11, tho hulicruus nppcnr11, nml Wit lnughs nt it. lie
u!.•c) rcmnrk~ of Uyron who hncl \Vit, nncllclcnlity huge, thnt
his ldcnlity wonlcl nclmirc n bcnutiful foot, his 'Vit prompt
J.im to ridicule n deformed one: hence his peculiru o.nnoy-
uncc mulcr his slight d.cformity.
This orgnn, then, produces ,~!rent 1\mullemcnt nnd enter-
tninment, nnd is moreover n 11light mornl engine. Sntirc is
n combinntinn of Wit nnd Destructiveness, the latter being
generally much the lnrgest ingredient. Humour is the result
of Secretiveness nnd 'Vit. We hnvo in the fnce three mus-
clell to drn\V the corners ofthe mouth up, or give the expres-
sion of lnughter, nnd one to draw them down, or give the
expression of -weeping. lienee, t~omc one hns concluded
thnt mnn wn1.1 intended to Inugh three times, nt lcnst, for cry·
ing onec.
21. IMITATION,
This orgnn is situated on the Pides of Benevolence. It
gives a squnrcncss to the frontnl pnrt of the coronnl region,
constituting n sort oftnblc-lnnd. To nscertnin its siz~ cor-
rectly, mark the distance it rist>s nbovc Cnusnlity. Wht>u
amnii the hend slopefl snddtmly down from Benevolence.
To .tbis hcnd of Cnnovn you sec it gives grent brcndth. In
this of Frnru;ois Cordonnier it is very large. In this ofVol-
to.ire it is still more strikin~ty developed, rifling, indeed,_
higher thnn Benevolence. This is the bend of Claro Fisher,
taken when she wae eight or nine years old, nnd much dis·
tinguished. In it you see the snme conformntion. In this
head .ofJacob Janis it is small.
Gall received the first intimation of thie orgnn from the
Digitized by Coogle
IMITATION'.
JtlCob Jnnilt.
13
IICnd of n friend who hnd grent imitative po\t'er. In him
this part wns grently deYclopcd; on noticing which, GnU im
mediately repaired tothe Institution for the Deafnnt1 Dumh,
to examine n boy nlhnittcd six weeks b~'fore, who Juul nt·
tractcd notice by hi~ nmnzing tnlcnt for mimicry. A little
play wns pcrformctl nt the Institution, in which he so per-
fectly imitated the gestures, gait nnd looks of the director,
inspt•ctor, physician, surgeon nnd some women of the cstnb-
lislimcnt, thnt it was impossible to mistnke them. lie found
this region us fully de,·eloped in this boy ns in his friend. lie
multiplied ob$crvations nnd established the orgnn.
'fhis organ contributes to render nu nuthor drnmntic, and
is Jorge in busts of Scott nnd Shnkspcnrc. It is the chief iu-
gr(~tlicnt in the tnlcnt filr ncting, but in good ncting much
more is required. As it consi~ts in reproducing existing t\p·
pcnrnnccs, it is grently nidcd by JlOWcrful obsen·ing ftlcuhics.
Clmrlcs 1\Inthews po:1scsscd it lnrgc, with immen~c lndivitlu-
nlitr ; nnd his mind wns like nn echo, his voice nnd fcnturc.-
gllvc out with perfect case whatever he henrd or SU\V. Se-
cretiveness is nnothcr grent element in the finished nctor, ·
producing the ability to suppress the mnnifestntion of the
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
I~IITATION.
l)thcr fncultic~. 'l'hnt 1mitntion mny be operntivc, howc,·er,
·the other faculties aun~t have nn ndeqnntc development.
An actor deficient in 'l'amc cNald not imitnte Cntnlnni, ho,,·.
ever great his lmitntion; nnd one deficient in Self-Estecan
nnd Destructiveness could not represent Coriolnuns to per-
fection.
'.fhia fncuhy is t'l!~entiul to the po&·trnit-pnintcr, tho eugrn-
vcr, the sculptor tUid the mn~ticinn. It is rt•qnisitc to thl'
orutor; giving him pnwcr to c::qm.•~ts his thoughts with up·
propriate g~sture1:1. ln privnhllift!, !«>&uc inttivklunls accom· ·
pnny their speech with the most forcible nnd nnimntct\ ex.
pressions of countenuucc ; the nnscent thought benms from
the eye, and plays upon the features, before it is uttered in
words. This is produced by much Jmitntion nnd Idcnlity.
In children this faculty is \'cry nctive : hence the necc!·
eity of surrounding them \\ith associates and setting them
an example worthy of iruitntion. It assists the linguist in
acquiring the spirit of a lllnguage.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
INTELLf:CTt1.U. •'ACt,)LTlES.
I.ECT UR1·~ I X.
I~Tt:r.U:C'fUAL 1-'o\CUL'l'U:S.
lb:CIOlfS.-All a1ror~ ,,,,. lillr A. n.t()ll$/illllC'$ tlrr .IY'giOIC of the 1\f"''''.
&ntiments. .4llbtlorc A. n. and hrhiwl c. D. tOIIIIitlftts tilt rt,!!ion oftM
Propensities. .AU below A. ll. ami brfore C. D. conllitutu IN. l11ttll«l1UJ.l
/fltllltiel. The mode (If drarci11g tl1uc li11cs nrc dest:rihtd in the tat.
'l'HE lntcllcctunl f.'lcnltic!'l mny be diviltcd into three gene-
ra: 1. External Scn.~cs ; 2. Observing Faculties ; 3. Re-
ttective Faculties.
The Observing Faculties occupy the lower, the Reflec-
tive Faculties the higher, portions of the forchend. The or-
gans of these fncultics nre smnll, but active. On nccount
of their size, many state their belief that it is impossible to
observe them. 'l'hesc persons seem to forget the difference
between difficulty nnd impo~sibility. It is sometimes diffi·
cult to distingui~h between gneiss nnd grnnitc; but no one
thinkl' it impoz>siblc. 'I'he links round the main-spring of a
"'ntch are so minute that mnny hundreds might be but on
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
2-lS ON 1\lt:ASURING THE .\NTERtOR LODE.
· o~e of these organs, yet artiznns not only distinguilth but
·make thetn. From such examples the filllacy ohhis objec-
tion may be plainly 1.1cen. There seems an obvious reason
why the Intc.llectuul Orgnns should be comparatively small.
·-When nn organ is under excitement thereis a rush ofblood
into it. Now the great.excitement of the large organs con-
stitutes passion, at1d if the Intellectual Organs had been
equally large, Intellectual Passions would probably have
been the consequence, instead ofthe calm, equable and cool
· obse"atipn and refle~tion of our present condition.
To ascertain the size of the Intellectual Organs is n mat-
ter .>f great importance. Attend closely, therefore, to these
facts: The anterior lobe ofthe brain rests on the super-or-
bital plate, nnd .tcrminutes at its posterior edge; nnd that
part of the frontal lobe appertaining to the lntellectunl Or-
gans rises to the upper part of Causality. The breadth may
.be ns.certnincd by measuring from Constructiveness on one
side, to the same organ on the other; n,nd the height by
measuring from the eyebrow to the upper edge of Causality.
To obtain the length, attend .to the following particulars:
A line drawn from the meeting .of the frontal, parietal aud
sphenoidnl bones on one side to their meeting on the other,
will run along the posterior part of the anterior lobe. When
you bave the skull l>efore you, nothing cnn be more easy
tbrtn to dcterniine the length of the Intellectual Organs. In
the living bend it is not much more difficult. Place the head
in its naturnl position, the axis·of the "eye being parallel to
the horizon. · Then .observe the most projecting part of the
zygomatic arch and from thnt part rliise a perpendicular
line passing upwards nlong the aide of the head. All before
that perpendicular is the seat of intellect. I do not know
the physiological explanation of the fact, but I have verified
it io a great number of instances.•
• 1have verified tbia oblervationby anexamination ofneu fifiy skull•, ·
ad baTt ob.e"ed in addiuoa tbauhe most projecting part or ~e zyso·.
Digitized by GoogIe
INDIVIDUALITY.
Observe this Peruvian skull in front, and you may think it
a good intellectual head ; but apply to it the rule I have just
given, and you observe ho\v smallis the anterior lobe, com-
pared with that of this ancient Greek. Looking at this cast
of the heud of Napoleon, in front nothing very remarkable
appears; but apply the rule, nnd you will find him to have
a most extraordinary intellectual development. With the
exception of Callova's, I know of no anterior lobe which
approaches it in length.•-In observing the forehead, mark
whether the inferior or superior portionsare most developed;
the one gives power of observation, the other ofreflection.
The difficulties attending the frontal sinus have been beCo,e
es:plained. (Set pagt. 133.)
22. INDIVIDUALITY.
This organ is situated at the middle of the lower part or
the forehead, immediately above the top ofthe nose. When
large, it produces breadth, projection ·and descent between
the eyebrow~:~ .; when small, the eye-brows approach closely
and lie in a horizontal line. This organ is vcrr large, as ~
you may sec in Dr. Spurzheim. It gives the conceptiou or
being or existence, and knows objects in their individual'ca-
pacities ; I have seen Dr. Spurzheim so absorbed in the con-
templation of a cast ns a mere existence,thathe would name
it, and put it down without a single additional remtu'k. This
faculty gives us the notion of substance, and forms the el8.81
flf ideas represented by substantive nouns-u· man, llecut,
Aorse.
•oatic arch c:omsponda with the poaterior illf'erior ponioD of.the ZJIOa
IWitic 8111Ure,and with that part of the arch at.which the ucendiJI&.pol'-
tion termitiates and the detcending portion begins. This mq be YerJ ,
distinctly recognised in the living head by pauin1 the finger along tbe '
1Utder edge o( the zygoma. ' :
• Gall merely from teeing the btllt orNapoleoa plaeedalonelide theee
orthe AUitriaa poerals, predicted the utoniabina •ictories or11111•:-
P.._Jotmtlll. .
20 .· ' ' ···· . .
o. •izedbyGoogle
INDIVIDUALITY.
: This organ produces capacity for details in regnrd to
objects thut exist, ·and therefore is necessary in nntural
sciences, ns Botany, Zoology and :Mineralogy.. It pro-
duces distinctness of d~tnil in narration, nod was large in
Defoe and Swift; the first showing it in Robinaon Crusoe,
the second in Gulliver's Travels. It was smulJ, as you see,
in Voltaire, who, in regard to things thnt exist, was one of
:the most inaccurate of writers. His histories Juive appro-
priately been called historical·romances. By enabling the
player to recollect what cards have been played, it enables
·him who possesses it well developed to excel in whist. Per-
·aona in whom·it is large possess one important element of
the talent for practical business ; but if the retlecting facul-
. ties be deficient, there will be no depth nor comprehensive·
ness of underst(,lnding.
·, . In ordinary life you will find persons who go through the
.world without observing things that exitJt around them ;
others, who see and note every thing. In the former, this
.organ will be found small; in the latter, large. I knew a
gentleman who walked up Prince street, Edinburgh, many
times, without once observing the Castle; which stood at his
.aide•...'ro those not acquainted with Edinburgh, I may
.stat~. that Prince street is about one mile long ; that along
.the aouth side of it there is a ravine, across which is a rock
,two hundred and fifty feet high, eunnounted by a castle ;
,and thia is the object he-did not so much as see. Such per·
,aons go about in a sort of revery.
As a contrast, I will give you the character of 1\liss Pratt,
drawn by the author of the Inheritance: " But people who
make use oftheir eyes," says the author, " have often much
~-to see, even between two doors ; and in·her progress from
)he hall to the drawing-room, Miss Pratt met with much to
attract her attention. True, aU the objects were·perfectly
:familiar to her; but a .real looker, like a gr«!at genius, is
·aenr at a losa for a subject: things are better or worse.
liDoe they aaw them last; or, if the thing& ·themaelvet!
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
JNDIVID11ALlT1'• 231
should happen to be the same, they have seen other things
either better or worse, and can therefore either approve or
disapprove of them. 1\Iiss Prott's bead, then, turned from
side to side os she went along, and o ·thousand obsena-
tions ond criticisms about stoir carpets, patent lamps, ball
chairs, slob table!, &e. &c. &c., passed through her crowd-
ed brnin." "Miss Pratt appeared to be o person from
whom nothing could be hid. Her eyes were not, by any
meons, fine eyes ; they were not reflecting eyes; they were
not soft eyes ; they were not sparkling eyes ; they were not:
penetroting eyes ; neither were they restless eyes, nor roll-
ing eyes, nor squinting eyes, nor prominent eyes; but they
were active, brisk, busy, vigilant immovable eyes, thailook-·
· ed o.s if they could not be surprised o.t onything-not eve11
sleep. They never looked ongry, nor joyous, nor per-
turbed, nor melancholy, nor heovy; but ,morning, noon
and night they shone the same, ond conveyed the same
imprcs5ion to the beholder-namely, that they were eyes
that had a look-not like the look of Sterne's monk, be-
yond this world, but a look into all the things on the fau
of this earth."
Now this is an exact des.cription of a mind actuated by
predominant Individuality, which is the great organ in
discovery by observation. To suppose men fooliilh who
have retreating foreheads is a mistake. 1\Iany brilliant
philosophical discoveries have been madeby persons large-
ly endowed with perceptive faculties, whose reflective fac-
ulties hnve not passed mediocrity.
Individuality is ofgreat importance to the artist. · 'Vitb-
out its full development there is obstrnctnet~s of conception
and vogueness ofexpression, with it large there is distinct-
ness ond reality. It gives the tendency to personify notions
and phenomena, to ascribe existence to mere abstroctiona
:f~he mind, such as' Giant Despair,' in Pilgrim's progreu.
t as generally small in the Scotch, larger in the Engliah,
and •till larger in the French.
Digitized by Google
23. FoaM.
Thia organ liea on each aide of the small bone which
you may perceive inside this skulJ, behind the top of the
DOle, and which is called the Christa Galli. 'Vhen defi-
cient, the orbiter plate approaches close to the aides of the
creat, and then the external width across the nose. from eye
to eye is amall ; wben. larg~, there is a con,iderabJe apace
between the plate and crest, and contaequently great breadth
across tho nose. By the distance between the eyes, there-
fore,.we judge of the size of this organ.
Dr. GnU discovered nnd named it the organ of the
Knowledge of Persons. Spurzheim, on more rigid nnaly-
eis, concluded it. to be the orgnn which takes cognizance
of configuration generally, and remarked that it is this
power which disposes us to give a figure to abstractions,
u that of an old ·man to God, aud a skeleton to Death.
It is essential to portrait-painters, and greatly nids the
Daturalist. To it Cuvier owed much of hilt success n;~ a
compamtive anatomist. · The figure of an animal or of a
bone never left his mind, but served him ever after for the
purpoaes.of comparison. Suppose that in Jnnunry he had
aeen a bone, the exact form would be indelibly fixed on
hia mind. If in six months he should find amotber, this
would bo compared with his conception of the previous
bone, and its form also would be indelibly fixed upon the
mind.. Every fact, in short, which he obtained, became
linked with every other fnct, and ho \vas thus enabled to
mak~ bia aatoniahing devcl~pments in Osteology•.
In the Chineee, l''orm, is very Jnrgo; ·and this seems to
me to explnin whnt nppenrs 10 puzzling with rcgl\rd to
their written Jnngunge. By the combinntion of twenty-six
letters orcharacters we produce nlJ our words. The Chinese,
on the contrary, bnve a separate character for nltnost every
word-which renden their lnnguago difficult ofattainment
wEuropeans. Their large organ of Form probably civee
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
SIZE. 233
this singular people the power both of contriving -and re-
taining these characters.
24. SIZE.
This orgnn is plnced at the internal comer of the eye,
on the side of Individuality. The f"culty of distinguishing
Size dift"ers from that of distinguishing Form, for the size
may be the same and the form different. · Size and distance
nre alike; when speaking of the latter, bowever, we think
of the two extreme points of whatever we refer to ; when
of the former, we think of the substance between these
points.
Perspecti\'e is the law of the proportion of distunce. It
therefore depends on Size principally, which organ is ac-
cordingly necessary in landscape painting. One day fifteen
or sixteen years ago I was sitting in the drawing-room \Vith
Sir George 1\lacl<cnzie, looking at a landscape, when 1\lr.
Ferguson, tutor in Sir George's family, said-" That seems
to me a plane surface, exhibiting differences of light o.nd
shade.-Now I am told that to some people different partt
appear at diff('rcnt distancet~, nod that to them it seems to
bave a fore and n background." 'Ve were surprised ntthit
observation, nnd asked to what he attributed his innbility to
see the lnndscnpe like other people. He replied to his
want of n mathematical education. 'Vo asked whether he
could distinguish in nature that objects were nt· ditrereut
distances. He snid he could. I then m•ked whether if he
shut his eyes nftcr looking nt objects, he could conceive
their relatil>u distances.. He snid he could not. We took
a cnst of .his fucc and forchend, nnd found Sizo -decidedly
amnii.
Sir 'Vnlter Scott snid that be bad nn eye Cor nnturaliCO·
nery, nnd, nt one time, a grent desire to draw, mnde many
efforts, but in vain : he could not bring out the eft"ect. In
hil bend this orgnn was distinctly deficient.
In Mr. Douglna the pnioter, on tho contrary, thia part il
20•
WEIGIIT.
large, ·and die manifestation eorrcspondt~. When a mere
child he woe struck with _the seemingly different distances
&om _ench other of the nenr and fur end11 of ploughed ridges,
crawled across the fields, bl•fore he could well walk, to
measur" the nctuol distance with n stick, nnd woe lost in
astonishment on finding thot no difference existed notwith·
atonding the difference of appearance.
'l'~ia organ lnrge gives grcnt nccurncy of eye. A person
ao favoured could draw a circle without the nid of nn instru·
meat, or point out the. exnct centre of ono nlreody drnwn.
:Ueiog on officer in the army, he found bimself able to mnke
his soldiers fall from column into line with grent exnctness,
eati~ating correctly the spnce to be occupied by the men,
which many officers could never learn to do. Locnlity, also,
waa largely"developed, wbich would doubtle11s aid him in
tbil practice. ·
25. WEIGHT.
This organ lies nlong the superciliory ridge, one third of
the length of thnt ridge outwnrd from the nose~ Bodies
may be·of all forms, sizes and col.ours, nnd yet none of these
.features. would imply thnt one wn11 heuvier thnn the other.
·It ia clear, too, thnt we have on instinctive faculty which
leads us to put forth muecular effort proportionate to the re·
aistance to be overcome. To illustrate this, suppose a lnrge
body·orheavy material to be lifted: considerable effortwould
have to be employed. But suppose the object not to be
auch a bo4y, but merely its rt-presentotion, consisting of
'I materials dift"erlng much in weight, thenwould be seen in the
want or proportion between the muscular effort and the ob·
ject to be accomplished, the great importance of the in·
atinctiJe agency. I hove knGwn a little humour manifeated
iD tbia way : a shopkeeper got a pastebonrd franle mode,
-~d employed an artist to pnint it ao aa to repreaeut precieely
a be old cheese. When bia acquaintances came ia, be
w~ lhow \hem a large, beaYJ oheeee, and uk thea to
Digitized by Google
WEIGHT.
lift it. IIaving doae so, be would point out tbe fictitious
cheese and desire them to Jif\ that also, thnt they n1ight
compnrc the weight. To do this they put forth nn etfort
eqnnl to the former one; the armiS jerked upwnrd.- nnd the
appnrent cheese flew to the ceiling. Weight is the faculty
which proportions the force to the resistance. 'Vhen large,
it gh·cs sltill to·the player at quoite. In turning, it enables
tho turner to pref's with the required momentum. You will
find it lnrgc in good skater$, those for instance, \\'ho lean
so ·much outwnrd, nnd describe well the figure 8. They
are ennbled by n. large development of 'Veight, to adapt
precisely their degree of inclination to their velocity and to
gravity. To rope-dnncers it is essential. In 1\laclaughlnn,
n weaver of Snltconts, who spent much ofhis time in invent•
ing mnchincs for the rc~ulntion of the stroke of the common
pump so as to mnltc the working-rod move with the alune
momentum up nnd down, we see it very lnrge; also in the
bend of Stevenson, the inventor of a superior locomotive
engine-nnd in this of Brunei ; it is very large, too, in Dr.
Chalmers, who represents himself as tnking on interest in
enginccrihg, and ns having a constant tendency to illustrate
his sermons by reference to it and astronomy. In blowing
crown glussthere is an advantage as regardstheexcise, which
I cannot specify, in mnking the circle or glass just nine
pounds nnd a half; nnd when visiting a manufactory at
NewcnstJe I was told that expert workmen would generally
come within from a quarter of an ounce to an ounce. Somo
were utterly unnble to acquire this tnct, and consequently
ltnd to be put back to work which brought them in eix or
eight shillings Jess n week. I noticed thnt in those who had
this peculiar tact the orgnn of 'Veight was very largely de·
veloped. In Hunter, the great surgeon, this orgnn eeeln~t
.to.have been occasionally diseased, on which occneions be
.hlld.not the powerof preserving his equilibrium. ,., His own
teebngs," says SirE~ Home, "did notgi"e AiM i~tforwtation
con~erning tlae centre ofgraoity." During intoxication this
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
WEIGIIT.
organ is disturbed: hence the complaint ofdrunkards that
the earth ploys them such sod tricks when they take too
much liquor. In archery it is necessary to estimate the
momentum requisite to send the arrow to the proposed dis-
tance and with the ~quired force. To this, Weight is es-
sential. In Scotland a compnny of archers date!J its origin
lkfore the introduction ofgun-powder, and some gentlemen,
with this organ amnii, not knowing that any peculiarfaculty
il required, join the society and attend the exercises for
three or four month1.1, but finding their ionbility to com·
pete with the others, they cense their attempts and ore
merely found at the dinners and suppers of the society.
Gooclhorsemanship greatly depends on this faculty. Some
men never learn to ride well ; they sit on their horses as
Scott makes JRmes VI. do," like a sack of oats." Mr.
Richard Edmondson of Manchester mentions that a great
number of observations hove led him to the conviction that
this org~n gives the perception of perpendicularity. He
employs men to engrave figures on copper for the purpose
ofprinting cloth; atul notices that those who can draw per-
pendicular lines without a ruler hnve this part large. He
. employed a person to build for him a chimney ; some of
the workmen could build a square yard of wall without once
applying the plumb line, others applied it to every brick.
The master-build~r was angry at these last, and said they
were wasting his time. "See bere," snid he, taking a
trOwel and building up a square ynrd of,vnll merely by the
eye. "That may be easy for you," said the men, ·~but we
cannot do it." The master, however, would not believe
their assertion, but, like a mentnl philosopher, maintained
that what he could do,they could do, if they would try. Mr.
Edmondson noticed that in those who worked by the eye
thie organ was large. He maintains that it not only per·
ceive• the perpendicularity but the direction of force, and in
particular the direction of the gravitating force of OUr
laodie1o . . . . . · .
Digitized by Google
COLOUR.
26. CoLoua.
This organ is situated in the middle of the superciliary
ridge. When large it gives an arched projecting appear-
ance to the eyebrow. Recollect that the organs of which I
now treat are not confined to the superciliary ridge, but ex-
.tend n short distance above it. Dr. Gall discovered thia
organ by comparing together the heads of painters distin-
guished for colouring. In the coJlection of a passionate
amateur of colouring, he·sa\V a collection of portraits of .
both male ond female artists, who had disti~guished them-
selves in this departn1ent of the art ; and in all, the region
immediately above the middle of the eyebrows wu ex-
.tremely prominent. ·
In order that we may see an object, rays of light muat
pass through the pupil to the retina ; the impressions there
produced must be transmitted by the optic nene to the ante-
rior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. To distinguish
colour, the impression must pass forward to the organ of
Colour.
This is a cnst of 1\lr. James 1\lilne, brass-founder, of
EdinbQrgh, in which you perceive the eyeball to project
beyond tlais organ. The middle of the superciliary ridge
is truncated. Contrast it \Vith this of Douglas the painter.
ltlr. 1\Iilne cannot distinguish.green from bright scarlet, and
his grandfather on the mother's side, was deficient in thi•
respect. In himself and two brother!', it appeared in a de-
cided manner, while his sisters, four in number, con dis-
tinguish colours easily. 1\lr. 1\Iilne is rather near-sighted,
but never found spectacles to oid his defect. He excels in
distinguishing forms and proportions, be is fond of shoot-
ing, but can only see the game in the sky-light. When a
large covey ofpartridges rose within ten or twelve yards of
him, the back ground being a field of Swedish turnips, he
could not perceive a single bird. 1\lr. Milne was bouad
apprentice to a drDper, and for three years and a half con-
Dig' ized by GoogIe
COLOUR.
tinued in his service. He fell into considerabl.e miltakea
about colours, which for a long time were attributed to in-
experience and ignorance of the names of the tints. At
length, however, after sel,ing a piece of olive corduroy, for
breeches, the purchaser requested strings to tie them with;
and 1\lilne proceeded to .cut off what he considered the best
match, when the person stopped him and requested strings
otthe same colour as the cloth. Mr. Milne desired him to
choose for·bimself; but being confident that the purchaser
wu wrong, ~e cut off a piece of the cloth, a piece of the
string which he intended to give, and a piece of that which
the purcho.ser chose, and carried them to his mother. She
told him that his ribbon wns a bright scarlet and the other
a grtus green. His masters wouldnot believe in this defec~,
and·it was only after many mistakes and some vituperation,
that be was permitted to renounce the business, and betake
himself to that of a brass-founder, for which he had a natu-
ral disposition and.talent, for when a mere boy, he had used
the turning-lathe in fashioning piny-things. He knows
blues and yellows certainly, but cnnnot distinguish browns,
greens and reds. In the rainbow be perceives only the yel-
low and .the blue distinctly : he sees that there are other
tints, but cannot distinguish or name them. 'Vhen in
Glasgow, his great coat was carried off, by mistake, from
the travellers' room, and when he inquired of the waiter
what hod· bec9me of it,- the man naturally asked its
.colour. This completely puzzled 1\lr. 1\lilne, though ho
had worn it a year, and he replied thnt it was either asnuff
brown, or an olive green, but which he could not tell. The
waiter looked as though he suspected 1\lr. 1\lilne of a wish
to get some other person's coat rather than to recover one
Ofhis own ; it WOS found, however, and .Mr. !tlilne has ever
, 8ince carried in his pocket-book a memorandum of the col-
our of his coot. I know Mr. Milne very well, and had these
puticulart from himsel£ He is distinguished for the beau•
r ' • ~ ' ',.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
]
r .
COLOUR•
. ty of his ornamental lamps and other articles. Many simi-
. Jar cnses are on record. ·
Those who have the organ l:trge tnkc pleasure in arrang-
ing colours in harmonious combinations. 'fhey find that
the primitive colours, blue, yellow and red, do not har-
monize; but if we place between two primitive colours. a
colour formed by combining them, hMmony will be the re-
sult : for instance, if we place green between blue nod yel-
low, violet between blue and red, or orange between red
··and yellow,. the effect is always pleasing. 'Ve frequently
see great violations of goQd taste in the dress o(Jadies io
the streets ofLondon, nnd also in this city. In the arrange-
ment of rooms this harmony is often violated ; for instance.
I have seen a room with yellow walls, a green carpet, .and
scarlet covered chairs.
This organ is very large in Audubon, the ornithologiat,
nn excellent colourist. In Haydon you see it very large.
It is generally larger in women than in men. It is gener-
ally very smaJJ in blind pereons. This has been noticed
by 1\lr. Silas Jones, Governor of the Blind Asylum ofyour
city, an intelligent phrenologist. It is very small in the
Esquimaux, which may be explained by its Jack ofexercise
through successive generations, as they hardly ever eee any
colour except white. Capt. Pnrry nnd others have nGticed
the feebleness of manifestation among them. In the Chi-
nese this organ is very large, with large Form but small
Size. This seems to mo to account to eome extent for
their d~fective tnste. 'Vbile the form is accurately de-
lineated and the colouring brilliant, there is no perepective ,
in their drawings.
Colour forms one element in the passion for flowere. · I
knew a legal practitioner, in whom this organ was large,
to engrossed by this passion as to neglect his professional
dutiee,
Some blind persons cnn distinguish colours by the touch,
but I cannot conceive that they have any precise notion•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
240 COLOUR.
of coloun. A blind man in Stirling distinguished colours
with grent nccuracy by means or touch. He practised
.chiefty on the dret~~ses of persons promenading in the beau-
tiful walk round Stirling cnsde, and the akin on thepoints or
hia fingen land by tbia.operation ncquired enraordiaary aoft-
nesa nnd delicacy. I have seen him rub his hnnd along the
pile or the sleeve and distinguish with great readiness and
accurncy a black coat, n brown coat, n blue coat and a
.areen one. But he confessed that he had no conception
..~what we call cOlour, but that be :waa guided by a certain
,feel which each particular colour imparted.
.·
I •
.....
' .
.. . .
! . .:.
:t; ...
' .
:..) . ·.. ~
.'.···
., •. I •'
1 1'!!"1 .
•: ( ' I' f • o t t•l \o l
: 1•" ~ ; .. ... "" · r · · t '
,,,.,, ' · j ., . ..
~'1' .:: ) f; • ·. ; • l ', .
' ol
,, . • ,'
...
..
o, •izedbyGoogle
I
LOCALITY.
LECTURE X.
27. LocALITY.
'l'lus organ lies a little above the internal corners of the
c~ye, on cnch side of lndh·iduality. Dr. Gall mentions that his
taste for natural history led him frequently into the woods,
to catch birds, or to diMcovcr their nests; but he generally
tound it impossible to retrace his wny to n nest which he
had discovered, notwithstanding his precaution to cut n1nrks
on the trees nnd stick branches in the ground. On this
nccount, he was obliged to tnke with him a schoolmate..
nnmed Scheidler, who, with. the least possible effort, went
directly to the place where n snure was set, even though
they hnd lnid ten or fifteen in places not familiarly kno,~n
to them. As Scheidler possessed only ,·cry ordinary tnl-
c•nts in other respects, Gall was strucli with his facility in
recollecting plncc~, and frequently nskcll hiat how be con-
tri\·cd to guide himself so surely ; to which he replied by
by nskiug Gall in turn how he contrived to lose himself
every where. Gnll moulded his hend, nud afterwo.rds
moulded the head of n celebrated lurulscape-painter, who
had an extraordinary memory o( plnccs; aml that of 1\ley-
er, author of Din-na-Sorc, who fonnd no plcnsure except
in n rambling life, nllll hnd nn nstonishiug thcility o£ recol-
lt!Cting the dillcrcnt placl'S which he hntl tlccn. On com-
paring nttcuti\·cly these thn1c hemht, he wns struck with
the correspondence which they presented in this region, all
having two prominences commencing ucnr ettch side of
the nose aud going obliquely upward nnd outward nlmost
nit high as the middle of the t'(lrchf'nd. Innumerable aub- ·
~H
_ o, ,,zedbyGoogle_
LOCALITY.
11equent obscrvntions proved that the organ of the faculty
for recollecting plnccs is situated in this region.
This is the fttculty which enables us to take cognizance
or direction ; it gives grent facility' when large, of rccoi-
Jecting places, and of learning geography. 1\lany have
wondered nt the nccurncy with which the Indian travels
through trncklc11s forf'sts. It is nwing to the lrtrge devel-
C>pmcnt and ncth·"ity of thitt orgnu, thnt he it~ ennblcd to
keeJl a mnp of the country in his hcnd, nud n chnrt of his
~urse: If he hm• to turn aside hnlf n day's journey, ou
uceount of some impediment, he )mows the direction nnd
amount of dcftcetion, nnd enn compcnsnte for it. This is
the cn11t of Mungo l,nrk, in which it is vcrylnrge. lie baa
in other respects u bcnutirul development. 1\lr. I,nrk was n
amrgcon who hud such n pnst~ion for travelling thnt he left
his native country to penetrate into tho interior of Africa.
'l'l1e ·busts . nnd. portraits of Columbus, Coolt, Galileo,
Kepler nnd Newton, 1.1how n great development of this re-
gion. Locnlity is nlmost mont~trous in the hend of 1\lr.
J)unn, Surveyor of Coul 1\lines at Newcastle, England. In
working min('s, it i:t ncct!S!lnry tn lcnvo pillnrs ft,r tho sup·
port of tho roof; nnd J\8 tho mining is cnrril'tl on in vnri·.
ous directions nn•l nil under ground, it is found to bo very
difficult to tell the exnct boundaries of tho respective
mines, and tho direction in which the miners should work.
Mr. Dunn hns nn instinctive knowletlgc of the direction
o( Whntovcr pJnces he mny hnvo ViAitcd, and CtlU direct
tho workmen with tho p;rcntcst nccurncy.
Readers endowed with lruge J,ocnlity, nro dcliglatcd
with descriptions of nnturnl scenery, such ns nro iound in
the writing• of Sir 'Vniter Scott, who wrote so pictorially
~at be almost savos tho nrtists, who mny illustrnte his pa-
ges, the trouble of invention.
This ia the cnst of Jumcs 'ViJaon of llelfht~t, who lost
his light from amnii-pox nt four yenra of ngc. His right
qe wu aubaequently couched, nnd he snw till he wns
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
LOCALITY.
seven, when n furious cow completely extinguished hi&
vas1on. After becoming blind he ncquired such nn accu-
rate and extensive luaowledge of places, ns to be nble to net
. ns n kind of oouricr to the merchants, to the e~tcnt of for-
ty miles round Dclfust. They considered him n most
trustworthy met:scngcr; he knew e\·er,\· foot o( the COUn·
try: nni.l though he coniJ not trtn-cl ns fitst ns others, much
more dc.pcndcncc could be plnced on him; for, us ho him-
self tolll me~ he never so:w uny thing to dil·crt his attention,
nnd nc\•cr stopped nt the whiskey-shops on the wny. In
him you percei\'c Locnlity to be exceedingly )urge, while
Colour seems hnnlly to hnve grown since infancy.
I hnvo noticed .Locality to be largo in chcss-plnycrs.
Tho~e in whom Size nnd 14ocnlity nrc both huge, hn,·c on
instineti\'c fitcnlty of lenrning to·distinguish the situntion
nnd dc,·clopment of the phrcnologicnl orgnns. Those in
whom th('50 organs uro smnll, cnnnot rendily do so.
ln Dr. John Hunter this orgnn seems to hm·e been disor-
dered; I\I OllC time, when in the holi!IC of n friend, he rorgot
in whnt pnrt of tht~ town he wns, nntl lollked in Tniti out of
the wisuluw to rl'frcsh his memory. " llo luul no eonct>p-
tinn," ~nys Sir l~n~rlll"ll llom('1 u llt" nny plncc cxi~ting bel-
yond the room he wns in, yet wns perfectly conscious of
the loss of memory."
'fhis orgnn is po~scsst•ll by the lower nnimnls, nnd they
sonwtimc~ mnnift•st it to nn c::o<trnortlinnry llcgrec. Goll
~Jnys, n dog wns cnrrit•ll in n conch from Yicnnn to ~t. Pc-
tcrsburgh, nnll ut the end of t~ix months rcnppenrcd nt Vi-
cnnn. Another wns trnn~portl•d from Yit'lllta to London,
but found mcnns to return to his nnth·c city. 1\.irhy nnd
Spence, in their work on Entnmolo!!y, relate the following
nnectlotc: An nss t~hippctl nt Gibrnltar on bonrll tho lstcr
frigntc, in 1816, wns thrown o\·crhorml when the \"Csscl
struck nt Point de Gnt, in Spnin, n distnucc of two hun-
dred tnilt~s. He found his wny hnck to Gibrnhnr, pre!lcnt-
ed himself nt the gntca ono morning, nud when they were
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
NUMBER.
opened, wnlked in nnd went immcdintcly tohis stnble. Ilia
not being stopped on the wny is nccountcd for by the foct
that ho hod holes in his cars, indicnting tlmt he hod been
used for enrrying crim,nnls when flogged ; and for sucb
oases, tho pensnnts hnve n ~rrent abhorrence. The fltlcon
of Ic;elnml returns to its untivc plncc from a distnncc of
thousands of miles ; nntl carrier pigeons bnve long been
distia1guished for n t~imilnr tendency. Gnll attributes the
migration of birds to n periodical nnd involuntnry excite·
anent of the orgnn of Locnlity.•
Sinco I lccturetllnt~t in this city, 1\lr. Snmpson hns com-
municntcd to me some rcmnrl\s tending to show thnt the
perception of " direction" depends on the orgnn of Size.
lie is deficient i.n the orgnn of Locnlity, and feels nn ex·
treme difficulty in knowing hit~ locnlity in a city or in be·
coming ncqunintcd with the rclntivc positions of objects, but
be hns nn instinctive fltcility in knowing the direction of
platccs. IIis observutions will be found in thA Amcricnn
Phrenological Journal nnd nrc interesting. I consider the
ultimnte flaculty of Locnlity us still involved in obscurity,
although the effects which it :produce11 nrc certain.
28. Nu&tntn.
This orgnn is somewhnt difficult to observe; when lnrgc,
it gives fullness to tho outer nngle of the eye, nnt\ n little
to tbe side, n very "little below tho point culled the external
angulnr process·of the frontnl bone. Yon see it lnrge in
tl1o m~ak of Geo·rge Bidder, of Zernh Colbttrn, nnd of
Humboldt tho mnthcmaticinn, brother to tho trnvcller ofthe
•nme nnme.
• I have always observed that when afresh hive hns been lnought to
my garden from a· distant plnce, the bees employ themselvea, on·lirwt
leanne it, not In collecting honey, but in mnkingthcm~~elveuequninted
with all the neighbourinc objec:ta. Gleanings in N11t. Uia.toryhy F.. I ...
•.,.•.
D•g't•zed by Coogle
J
NUIIIOER. 2-15
Gnll di!4covcrcd this orgnn by compnring the bends of hYo
hoys remnrltable for their powers nf cnlculntion. Beside
presenting the nppcnrnnccs lwfctrc mcntiont>d, the eye wns
in t;ome mcn!lurc covered by the outer extremity of the eye-
l,row." lie afterword Yi:.;itccJ llnron Vcgn, R fimlOIIS COJCU•
lntor, nml tht~ public t:chools; nnd invnrinbly fomul this
pnrt prominent in connectimt with grent urithmeticnl tnlcnt.
Arithmetic nnd Algt•brn depend em this orgnn; but Ge-
ometry, nml other nf the higlwr brnnchcs of mnthemntics,
dt•p1·ntl on otht•r li,cultics. 'l'hill opinion i~t nut tho result
of spcculntiun, hut of uh:~cr\'ntion•. George llicltlcr, whcu
only l'Cn'll yt•arll of u~c, nntl without in~truction, show·cd
·an cxtrnordinnry tnlcnt for mentnl cnlculation. 'Vhen only
clc,·cn, I snw him solrc the most complicntcd qitel!tions
in nlgchrn mort~ rnpilily thnn the most expert nccountnnl
coul<l put the operations down. When he first cnme to
Eclinhurgh, ntul bcfot·c I hod seen him, 1\Ir.l\Ioir, aturgeon,
wnitcd on me, nccompnniccl by three huys nf nenrly cqunl
ngc, ntul snid-" One of these is George lliddl'r ; cun you
tell me which is he hy hi:; head1" I wns then desirous of
seeing rt•m:ulwhlc cn~es, nnd I told him thnt I should bo
glnd nt nny rnte to cxnminc the boys. I dill so, oml re-
marked thnt the fir:ot one couhl not; I wns certnin, be George
Biddt~r, ns in him the orgnn wus deficient; thnt the t~econd
shonld hn,·e cunsidc•rnblo power:~ of cnlculntion; but that
the third ~houhl be G·~or~c Hiddtlr, b€lcnntie in him the 01'-
gnn wns rl'mnrknhly dL•n•lopctl. 'l'he gentleman assured
me thnt I wns right. The first wns his own t:on, to "·hom
instruction seemed unnhle to impnrt nny arithmetical know-
ledge ; the t~ccond wns tho mot~t expert cnlculntor selcctttd
from a school in Edinbur~h ; the other wn~ Bidder him-
self. Expecting to mnke B.itlder nn extrnordinnry muthe- ·
maticinn, they gnve him the best in$truction. In l\ letter k\
Professor Bnircl, I snicl-" I fenr you will bo disnppoiutod
in your hovcs of mnkin~ Bidder n ,:trent ·engineer." l
founded this opinion on the fnct \hnt \he orgnne, the great
21•
o; IHZedbyGoogle
NUMBER.
development of wbic:h constitute IUI:lthemnticnl genius, were
not of more than ordinnry size. 'I'his wns looked ·upon,
of course, ns u piece of phre.nologicnl folly. One dny I
met Profetsor WniJ.nce ~he mnthemnticnl tencher of Bid-
' dcr: "Whnt do yon sny to your phrenology no\f t" snid
he. I said I would be glad to know whnt he mennt. "Why,"
snid be, "I mean· this: George Diddt•r, who you snid
would be such n great mnthemntician, hns been two yenrs
in my class, nnd does not evince as much genius UR many
others. ·Thit~ slu~ws the nonsense of your ttcicnce." I
told him to go nnd nsk his friend, Principal Baird, to in-
form him what I hnd E!nid two years previous.
I cnn ttpenk on tbi$ subject the more decidedly, from
being myself very deficient in this fnculty, notwith~tanding
any exertions to cultivate it. Arithmetie hns ahvnys been
to me n profmind myt~tcry, nnd, to master the multiplication
tnblc, an insurmountable task. I could not now tell you
how many eight times nine nrc, without going to work cir-
cuitously aud reckoning by means of the tens. Yet for
seven years I studied arithmetic. 'rhis deficiency hns been
the occasion of much trouble to me. I could understand
every thing relating to accounts, but hnd nhvnys to employ
clerks to perform calculations. This fhculty in me is, in
.fact, idiotic, nud the orgnn is very tmall. 'Vere my other
powers in like condition, I should be totally unfit for tho
ordinary business of life.
This orgnn is found very smnll, nnd the faculty very fee·
ble, in some nation~ nnd tribes. In this skull of n North
American Indian, it is very little developed; nnd I nm tolcl
that in the various agreements by which your Govermncnt
baa engaged to pay n certain amount of money to the In-
diana, it boa been fou~d impo_
sflible to mnke th~m compre-
hend the nmount, beyond n very smnll sum. Hence have
arleen diftlcuhiea and dissatisfaction. The Greenland tribes
· coneider a number exceeding all their fingers nnd toea, in-
aumerable. . .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ORDER. 247
Number nnd lndividunlity both large, give facility in
recollecting dntes, Form aids in the recoJJection of printed
numeral!'. ·
In 1835, I t~nw, nt the 1.-unntic A11ylum of Newcastle, a
patient named 1\Inrshnll, in whom Number wns largely
devclupecl. l\lr. Mackintosh ·the t~urgcon, finding him
continunlly employed in CO\'criug paper with arithmetical
culculations, took it nwny for the purpose of allowing the
orgnn repo~e ; but he then u~ed the slnte. 'l'hnt being
taken nwny, he uttcd his uails to ttcrntch with upon the
wnll. His hnnds being tit>d behind him, he used the tip
of his tongue to trace figures on the wnll with snlirn, nnd
kept nt wort<, adding, subtrncting, multiplying nnd dividing,
as well ns he could in this wny; his tongue wns excoriated
by the novel aptllicntion to which it wnlf subjected.
This faculty tteems to be possessed in some degree by
the lower nnimals. George l..e Roy stntes thnt mngpiea
count thrc!e, und founds his opinion on the following fncu:
To annihilate thiS' ravenous family, gnmc·keepcrs try to
kill the mother while tthe sits. :\lnny, however, desert their
nest ns soon ns nny one nppronc~es. The plnn is then to
nmkc nn nmbush nncl wntch forl1cr.return; butshe wntcll·
cs nlso; nml if one mnn pn~ses in, ~he does not npprooch
till he hns rctirc.•cl. 'l'o dcceh·e th~ bird two men enter
the nmhush, nnd one goes nwny ; but still she wuits for
the other ulso to retire. 'l'hcn three enter, nnd two _go
awRy; hut still she keeps nn accurate reckoning; finally it
is found ncccst~nry thnt fhe or six should enter the nmbush;
she then becomes confused; return!! while one still remains
and she is then shot. 'l'his hM been often repented, with
like success.
29. ORDER.
T!1~5 orgnn_ ill situnt~d nt the externnl nng1e of the au·
percthnry ridrrc ... {'. .
1:0 , nnu O&tcn gtVes t~qunreness to the lo\\'tf
pnrt or the foret1end. This is the cnst or a French M. D.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ORDER.
who mani_
fested the fiieulty very 11trongly. Contrast, aa re-
p~s this region, the head of Frnnklin, one of the moat
orderly, wilh thnt of Currnn, nne of the. moat slovenly or
men. . When 1 lectured .ha Dublin, just ten yenra ago, a
se.ntlenum an;d to me, " Wouh.l you like to ace tho np·
pe(lron_
ce ~f Curram when he looked his beaJt l" I said,
" Yea,'I should." So he took me to ace what was consid-
ered n perfect likeness of the fiunoua orator. 'fhe pointer
hod evidently done all he coultl to make Currnn look like
a gentlemaan. but had been •msuccez'~ful ; the marks of dirt
and alovcailinesa were too.prominent in his whole dress nnd
manner• to ullow hiut ~ chance of success. 1'he gentle-
IDU told me that Curro~ wns, in fuct, the greatest slattern
\hat ever lived.
The function of this orgnn is to give the desire of phy·
- sicol arrau.agement, of order and anethod in relation to pby-
aicnl ohjP.cts. Clnssifh~ution, gcnerulization and·systemat-
izing, iu acience or philosophy, depend on the reflective
faculties.
I have seen severnl in.stnncea in confirmotion of this.
Mr. L.'a forehend, us you ~Sec, presents n grent development
and squnreness of this region ; nnd in his dress, w~rdrobc,
and nil his profest~ionul ·autd domestic occupntions, his love
or order WaS COiltlpicuous. 'J'Jai11 truit WUS hereditary, his
fadaer on one oocnsion, lmvin~ missed his pen-knife from
· the accu11tumed pocket, summoned before him his relalives
and ·domestics, nnd demnudt:d whether they had seen it.
Being nnswered in _
the ·nt>gutive, he unhesitatingly declared
. that it mat Jmve been stult:n ; nnd being requested to
tearcl• hia o~her pocketeJ, he bccnme quite indignant, and
exelnimed thnt for twenty yenn hi~t kniC" hnd been in no
other. He wna at length, however, prevailed on to scorch:
and wna quite confounded nnd mortified, on diacoYering
that be had renlly put the knife in W. JeCt pocket instead
of in hil right.
Dr. Spurzheim mentioDI an idiot u Paris, who could not
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
,
ON THE ~UTIIE;\IATICAL FACCLTIES~ 249
bear to see n chair or other ohject ont of place ; and an-
other at Edinburgh, who. avoided her brother's room, on
nccount of its confusion.
The Esquimaux nrc dc!ICI'ihed by n:n·igntor~J ns a most
fihhy, slovenly and disgusting race; nnd in them, ns you
mny sec by this l'lpccimcu, the organ is ,·ery smull.
I hnve now treated of the organs which enter into ncth·ity
in mnthematicnl studies. An ~pinion i11 prevalent, that
mathemntics ntford exercise to the reflecting filculties, that
thei.r tendency, n~ n branch of education, is to cultivate the
talent for general 1·casouing. To me this nppenrs nltogetb-
er erroneous. Geometry trents ofthe proportions oft:paee;
nlgcbrn and nrithmetic of the proportions of numbers; nnd
the three form the great clements of pure mathematics.
For jutlging·of the proportions of ~pncc; Size, Locality
and Indivitlunlity, nidcd hy. Comparison, ure the faculties
required: und for judging of the proportions of numbers;
Number and Order nrc the great fhculties, also aided by
Comparison. Now cnusntion nlways implies ·power, force,
or ngency; nnd the iden of these docs not at nll enter into
the propositions of pure mathematics. It follows, thcr~
fi1rc, that persons mny be grcnt in mathematics, who nre
indifferent reasoners ; nnd great reasoners, who nrc poor
mathematicians. ·This is the opinion of the grcnt mnstent
in philosophy. Dncon observe~, that "The mathematical
pnrt in some men's minds is good, and the logical is bad;
some cnn renson well in numbers and qunntitie!:, that can-
not reason well in words." I wns leu to in\'cstignte this
· subject, nnd to analyze the mathemnticnl geniut' into its
elements, by observing that Causality is often deficient in
the most famous mathematicians. In Sir Isaac Newton
himself, the upper region of the forehead is by uo means
Iorge; but the lower part, cspccinlly in the region of Lo-
cality and Weight is very great ; anu though he was ex-
traordinary a11 a mathematician, his manifestation ofgeneral
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
!15() ON TilE M.~TIIEMATICAL FACULTIES.
reasoning power was by no means remarknble. The bend
of the lute Professor Le"lic J)Ossessed the some genernl de-
"Yelopmcnt ; and he wns deficient in the power of tracing
logical ~:~cqucnccs. {)n .the contrnry, Dayle, though pos- ··
sesscd of powerful und ncute rensoning powers, could never
anake much progress in nui.themntics.
Dugnld Stcwnrt rcmarlu that " When it is stnted in the
form of n self-evident trut~1, that magnitudes which coin-
cide, or which exactly fill the some spnce, nre equal to one
another, the beginner readily yields his nl!sent to the pro·
position;. and this nsseut, without going nny farther, is nil
that is required iu any of the demonstrations of the first
aix books of Euclid." · 'l'his is strong testimony to the foct,
thnt the relutivc proportions of llpnce or ma~nitude consti·
tutc ·the ·principnl subject of mnthemnticul education, nnd
thnt cnu11ution is not nt nil implied. 'l'his you will rcndily
understand by nn exnminntion of this chart which contnins
all the gcomctricnl figures. It iii' evident that n compnri-
eon of the relations of these figures to cnch other, which
constitutes the science of geometry, hns nothing whntcn•r
to clo with the considcmtion of force, power, or ngcncy.
l'rofcssor Leslie snys tlmt " the whole structure .of gcomt·
lr!J is grounded Orl tl&e simple comparisoll of triangles." 1\lr.
Stewnrt corrects this remnrk by observing, thnt "D'Aiem-
bert has mentioned nnother principle os not less fundamen·
tol, the measflreme11t of mrgles by circular arches:" but you
will observe that both triangles nnd circular nrchcs nrc mere-
ly forms of spnce. .
It seems to me perft!ctly obvious, therefore, .dmt while
the mnthemnticnl sciences mny be employed in the meosurc-
nent of forces which operntc with undeviating regularity,
they cannot be employed in cases wbere the forces ore
aot equable. · Human netions proceed from intellectuol
perccpti01U1, mornl impulses or the force of pnssion. Now
it 11 obvious thnt the11e.do not possess that uniformity of op-
eratioa w~icb it iadispensaJ;Jle· to the application of mathe·
o; tized 'YGoogle
EVF.STU.UITY. 251
maticnl mcasnrt•mcut. In judging of human nc~ions we
must, by sagacity nml experience, estimate the jnflucncc
of internal impulses nnd external circmnstnncu; nnd in
doing 110, Comparison and Cnusa]ity nre prineipnlly opera-
tive: whereas in mathematics Cnusality is quite inactive.
In the abo\'C rcmarl\s I allude to pure mathematics, or
geometry, nlgebro, nrithmctic and their branches; nnd I
think what has been advanced quite sufficient to establish
the folly of those teachers, who, ns in the University of Cam-
bridge, England, keep young men for years at mntllemnti-
cal studies, to enable them to judge of the nature, force and
Jirection of the motin•s, which produce bumon nctions.
30. EVENTU.\LIT\'.
This organ, when lnrgc, givc.s promincucc or r<lunded
fullness to the middle of the .forchcnd. In the bend. of Dr.
Frnnldin you sec it small ; in the·lwnd of }>itt ,·cry lurge,
there hcing n prominence in his head exactly where thut
uf l;ornult.lin is most ddicicnt. lmliridunlity gil·cs the pow-
('r of uh~c1•ving things that exist n:t objects of fltill lift!;
l~vcntunlity recognises their ncth·ity. 'Yhen we sny tho
lwrse gallops, the noun springs from Individuality, the Yerb
lhun Eventuality. Gall included this organ nnd Individu-
ality under the term Educability; but from the upper p:trt
hciug often small when the lower part ,,·ns )urge, nnd lnrge
"h~n the lower pnrt wns smnll, we long deemed thit the
rcg1on of two organs, which we enllcd Uppt>r nnd Lower
Individuality, concerning the precise functions of which,
however, we were in doubt. 'l'he following incident did·
UJUch to clear up my own views ond I relnte it hoping
thnt it may be f l . ' · '
• 0 equn scrVlce to you. There wns a grent
fCVICW nt Which .
. ' mnny spectntors were present. I dmed
wuh n number f 1
on f 1 · 0 gent emcn who hnd nttcndetl, nnd nsked
e o t lem what .
did not k regnncnts were on the field t He sn.id be
now. 1 asked him if he remembered the numben
o,J,zedbyGoogle
EVENTUALITY.
on their knnpsneksl No, he did not notice them. I asked
him if he snw the fncings of the regimentals l No, be did
unt recollect seeing them. I then n£~ltcd him whnt he did .
llCO t "Why," t~nid he,." I snw the review."-" And.whnt
tlo you cnll the review1"-" 'Vhy," snid he," I do not cnll
the numbcrt~ the review, nor the fncings the review·, but
thn evolutions." no tlum dcscrihe«l the mnrehing ond
cn~mt«'rmnrchinl(, thn movements nllll ovolntion", with tho
·grentcRt )Jrecil'lion. Another gcntlemnn, who wns sitting
hy, 11~icl: "J lmnw thnt thfl soltticrs mnrchccl nhont nnd
f(,rmcd M«lllnrcll, yet I ccrtniuly could not hnvc dcRcrihcd
the vnri01111 successive movements ns thnt gcntlemnn hns,
but I remember whnt re~imcnts were on the field, their
numbcr11 ·nnd fiteings." I wn.s struck with tho difference
between these two gentlemen, nnd remnrkcd thnt Upper
lndividnnlity wns Jnrgc in the first, nnd Lower Individunlity
in the Rccond. Dr. Stntrt.heim, in Pnris, nnd we in Edin-
burgh, discovcre«l tho functions of these pnrts nbout the
1'1\tne tint('.
lndivitlunlity nnd Evontnnlity nrc both Jnrgc in Joseph
llmne-hcnco his power of nccmnulntiug filets nnd nnr-
rnting occurrcncc8. · 'l'hl'sc fhcultics nrc extremely vnlu.n-
ble to the tcnchcr. The one cnnblct~ him to ncquirc know·
lcdgr., the other to tell tim story. An author in wltom In-
,Jivic.lunlity ·is laugc nnd Evcntunlity smnll, will trent his
subjects by description chiefly ; one in whom Eventuality
is Jnrgo nnd Individunlity amnii, will nnrrnte nctions, but
denl little in phyaict:tl description. This is the portrait of
Pope; this is tho hcnd of Shcridnn; in the former, Imli-
vidunlity is moderote nnd EvcntunJity very Jnrge ; in the
Iotter, both nre Iorge, nnd Form nnd Size considcrnbJe. To
illustrate .the different kinds of composition which these
dHferent combinations produce, I solicit your attention to
the following extracts from these nuthors. Pope rorely
excels in describing physicRl existence, but he surpns!CS in
repre~enting action. I ahould like to see •orne·of yon trike
Dig' ized by GoogIe
EVENTUALIT\".
a pencil nnd attempt to represent, on paper or canvass, the
beautiful Indy described in the following pnssage:
"Not with more glories in tho etherial plnin,
Tho sun firtot rise11 o'er the pnrplo lDnin,
Than issuing forth, the rh·nl ofhis beanua.
J...aunchcd on tho bosom oftho aih·er Thames.
}'air nymphs and wcll-llre!l.qcd youths around herahon~,
flut OVt•ry t'JO Wt\l' fhml fill Ju~r niOU(',
Uu her whito brt'R!It n ~parklin,l{ cru!ltl 11ho woro,
Which Juw11 might ki"" nnd lnlitlt•l" ntlow.
Her lin•ly look!' n "t•rightly mimi di:;do~t.
Uniclt ns her tlJ\'11, nml n11 uulhcd ns those.
}'n,·ours to 11onc, to all she t~milcs extends;
Oft l'bO rejccl!l, but IIC\"cr Once oft'ctlll:i.
Bright M tho sun, bcr eyt~s tho g:tY.Cflllltrikc,
And, lil;;o thnt ann, tboy thine on nil nlikc.
Yet grnceful ea!'e, nnrl aweetm.•~~a \·oid ofpride,
1\light l•illo her fanll!t, ifbelles hnd fault11 tu hide:
Ifto her shnro some female errors fnll,
Look on her face, nutl you'll forget tbcm all."
Hero we hove action, condition nnd t}unlity nlmost to the
exclusion of substnntin~ cxi:;tcnce; tuul in this description
of tho Indy's filet•, though he bid:t utt look nt it, there iii
nothing which intlicntcs thi\t he him~l'lflllld ever seen it.
Shcridtm, spcnkiug of n womnn nnd hrr lmsbnmt, says:
"llcr fi1t nrms nl'e stmngh.·d with brncCictL', which belt
them lil(e corded brnwn-you wish to drnw her out ns you
would on opcrn-glnss. A long, lcnnnum, with nll his nrms
rmnbling; no wny to reduce him to compnss. unless you
tloublcd him up lilic n pocl,ct-rule. "~ith his nrms sprcncl,
he'd lie on the bed of Wnre, lil'c n cross on n Good-Friday
hunn. If ho stnmls cross-legged, he looks like n cadu-
ceus, nnd put him in n fencing attitude, you would tnkt'
him for n chevenux-dc-frise. To mnke nny usc of him, it
must be ns n spontoon or n fishing-rod. 'Vhen his wife 's
by, he follows like n note ofndmirntion. See them togeth·
er, one 's a mnat the other all bulk i abe 'a n dome, nnd
22
o;9,tized by Google
TUllo
he '• built like o glues house. 'Vbcn they part, you w~n­
der to aeo the steeple acpnrntc from the chnncel, and were
tl•ey to embrace, he must hnng round her neck liken skein
of threndon n lnce-mnkcr's holster. To sing ber praise,
7ou ahot,Jd choose n rondcnu, and to celebrate him, you
DJust choose nil Alexandrinet~.'' ·
You find here that physicnl nppenrnnccs nre pnrticulurly
prominent.
In Curran this orgnn nnd Compnri~on nrc lnrgc, but In-
dividunlity is deficient. Jn Sterno it is very smull. I hnvc
Dot seen (~uptnin 1\Jnrryntt, but ho exhibits iu his works
"Yery good :E,·cntunlity•. .It is very lnrgc iu Sir \YoIter Scott.
Both lndividunlity nnd f,ventnnlity nro genernlly lnrgc in
clailclrc.n. Under the influence of the former they wiiJ brenk
tl•eir playthings on·purpot-~e to sec whnt ia inside ; tho Iot-
ter gives them grcnt fondne~:~s for stories. Dr. GnU main-
tained, thnt the facility with which nnimnls mny be tamed
and educated, depends on the degree in .which the region
comprising this organ nnd Individuality nrc developed.
31. ·'futE.
Time is situated on ench side of E,·cntunlity. It givt'S
rise to the pcruption of durntion, of the relation in which
circum~ttnnecs · stnnd to ench other chronologicnlly. Ry
giYing the perception of mcneured cndcncc, it is one ~marcc
of plensure in dnncing, nnd it is nccessnry to music nnd
-Torsificntion. The denfond dumb frequently manifest this
faculty strongly, nnd nrc highly delighted with dnncing, tn·
. king tho time by the eye from the violin-plnye~'s orm, or
at second-hand, but instontnncously, from the other dan-
cera. Lord 1\.aimes nnd others sny wu measure time by
the number of ideas which poss in the mind. 'l'his is ob-
Tioualy incorrect; for the more we nre interested in .nQy
occupation, the lesa clearly we perceive its lapse. On the
coatra17, · when the other fncultiea ore quieaeent, 1'ime
o;9,tized by Google
TUNIC.
seems to become oseendnnt ; it goes on meoauring time in-
cessnntly, ond keeps the notion of it continually in the
mind. Hence the oppnrcnt great durotion of unoccupied
time. Some, however, hove on instinctive knowledge or I
the lnpse of time under oll circumstonces, ond con tell the ·
hour of the day witb greot occurocy~
32. TUNE.
1'unc is sitnntcd on the lower Intern) pnrt of the fore-
bend, under nnd on cnch side of the tempornl ridge. ""ben
lnrgc, the forchcnll is filled "1' nml rounded off in this re-
gion, ond docs not form thut rnpid ellipsis which you sec in
thi11 head of Cunnt_l. _Contrast the bend of llnudel ""ith
this of Anne Ormerod, who wns ndmittcd, nt twch·o yt-nrs
of ngc, into the Ulind Asyluni of Liverpool. During two
_yenrs, menns were unsparingly employed to cultivate nud
improve ony mu!licnl tnlcut which she might poascat; but
in vnin : the finest Jnusio gt\Ye her no more plcosurc than
the rudest noise.
HandeL
Gall discovered the organ by noticing this part large in
a young girl who could repeat \Vhatever abe heard sung or
played, and who recollected whole concerts, if abe heard
them only twice ; and by afterward examining the beads of
o, •izedbyGoogle
•
TUllfL
all the penons distinguished for musienl talent, to whom
he could gain acce~.
'!'his orgnn bean the same relation to the enr which tho
organ of Colourdoes to the eye. The eor receives the im-
preuion of aounds, and is ngreeably or disagreeably aftec•
ted by them ; but the ear has no recoJicction of tones, nor
does it judge of their rclntions ; ·it perceives not tho har·
, monies of Bound. llnrmony is the ngreenblc combination
or nrious sounds ; Melody consists in the succession of
aimple sounds. For the proper nppreciutiou of the former
a larger entlO\vment is required than for tho latter, and, in
accordance with this, we fin"' that the Germans nud Italians
IJave the orgnnlurge, ond prefer llnrmony; the Scotch hnve
it only moderately developed nnd prefer 1\Ielody. 1\lnny
mistnkcs occur iu rclntion to this organ, not only from the
difficulty of observing it, but from not rightly understand-
ing on wlmt cxceJienco in the musicul art depends. Tune
givc1-the perception ofl\Ic1ody, but this is only one ingredient
in a genius for music. 'l'ime is requisite to n just pcrccp·
tion of intervals, to the propt!r appreciation of harmony ;
SecretiYenetta and Imitation to produce expression. But,
in instrulticntul music, the loudness of tone depends on tho
momentum with which the chords are struck, the due
regulation d~pends on the orgnn of Weight ; )urge Form
~nd lndiYidunlity nre requiste to enable a musician to rend
music at sight, Ideality and a fine temperument sbould be
ad<\ed lo giYe refinement and elevation, to throw over nU the
glow of inspiration. Such a combinotion is extremely
rare ; hence the scnrcity of great musical tulcnt nnd genius.
These views are not theoretical, but founded on obPerva- _
tion. I will relate one circumstance in illustration. 1\lrs
Gibaon had two pupils who puzzled her very much. One
wu paaaion11tely fond oC music, but learned to play with
pat difficulty ; the other cared little for it, but learned to
· pla7 with great facility. She asked me if I would like to
·~Dmioe them a I wu then innatigating thia 1ubject and
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
teqne!ted her to bring them in, but not to say any thing
which would enable me to distinguish them. On exnDli·
nation: I found that one bnd very.large Tune, but deficient
'Vcight nnd 'l'ime. 'l'his young lady, enid I, will tnke in-
tense interest in hearing music, ·but hnve little power of
execut.ion. The other posses~ed modernte Tune only, but.
Jorge Imitation and Weight. '!'his young Indy, I remarked,
may be trained to make an excellent performer, but there
will be no soul in her music. She wiJl·be one of the great
number who devote so much time during youth, in acquiring
an art which is thrown nside the moment they pass from pa-
rental control, or enter on the graver duties of life. 1\lrs.
Gibson snid thnt thi!l di~criminntion between the tnlents of
the young ladies wns perfectly correcL Ten yenrs after-
wards I dined with a gentleman whot~e Indy snid to me, u I
suppose, Sir, thnt yon tlo not recollect me, though we hllTe
met befilre." I said I did not, nncl should like to be in-
formed where I hncl previou~ly seen her. 11 Do you recol-
_)ect,'' l!nid she," cxnmining two of .Mrt~. Gibson's pupilB on
-their mnsicnl cnpncity 1" I told her I did. 11 'Vc:ll,, she
continued, " I nm the one who you f'nid would, notwilh-
.stnnding her nbility, give up pinyin~ ns soon as she had Roy
thing of importance to nttend to : there is my in::;trument;
it hus had ntatring brolten these three months; but 80 little
intere-st do 1 take in music, thnt I hnve not thought it "·orth
while to get it rcpnired." Subsequent events hnve led the
Indy into society in which music is n source or entertnin-
Dlent. She hns re-strung her hnrp nud puts ber talents
occnsionolly to usc. She possesse11 so rnuch musical tnl·
ent that she cnn perfitrm well, wlwn nny of her other fac-
ulties furnish her with a motive tu do tao.
'l'his orgnn is sometimes disensed. Dr. Combe nttended
a young Indy who complninccl of acute pniu nt the exter-
nal nnglc of the fim!lu~ad, prccist'ly in the situation of the
organs of Tune, which were largely developed, Rnd upon
which, in describing tbe sent of pain, ahe placed most ac-
22•
· o;9,t,zedbyGoogle
TONI:.
eurately the points of her fingers. 'l'wo days afterward abe
· . etill complained of pain in thi!l region, and stated that she
had been dreaming a great deal of hearing the finest mu-
aic. The next dny she mentioned the recurrence of her
muaicnl dreams. But whnt is very remarkable, the excite-
. mcnt of the fnculty of Tune renched, during the. day, a
. height which could not be controlled : the patient felt,
not to any a-desire only, but n strong and irresistible pas-
aion or·craving for music, which it wns pninful beyond en-
durnnce to repreas. She insisted on getting up and being
. allowed to play nnd sing. Thnt being inndvisobJe, she
bc~ged to hnve n f iend t~ent to piny for her; but the crn-
Ying becoming intdernblc: she seized a guitar, Joy dO\vn
. upon the aofn, nnd fuirly gnve wny to the torrent with a
volume, clearness and strength of voice, ond a facility of
execution which was astonishing. Regarding tbel!e phe·
. nomena as ari11ing from the over-excitement of the organ
.orTune. Dr. Combe directed the continued local npplica-
, tion of cold, nnd such other measures ns tended to alloy the
. action, and the lady soon regained her ordinary Btatc.•
:. • Ia thinkinc or time, the eyuare turned upward; and in calcnlatinr,
~an eu& downwarda and outwarde. Spun. Phren. Vol. i. :m4~
1·, . .
• • • l ·, . · . l .• •
4' " ' . ·, ' ' • • '
o, •izedbyGoogle
L.UfGVA8L
I.ECTURE XI.
33. LANGUAGE.
A LAROE development of this organ is indicated by ·n
prominence or depression of the eyes, which is produced
by a convolution of the brain, situnted on the posterior part
of the orhitary plnte,·pressing it and the eye more or len
forwnrd or downwnrd, nccording to the size of the convo-
lution. When amnii, the eye is deeply sunk in the skulk
In these heads of Dean Swift, Voltaire, Gibbon, Pope, Dr.
Johnson, and Humboldt, you see it very lurgc; in thehead
of Frazer, you sec it smnll. There is a difficulty in defi-
ning the precise function of this fitculty. It takes eogni·
znnce, however, of the nrtificiul signs by which we repre·
sent idens. Recollect it gives signs only ; ·idens are given ·
by the other fnculties. Form gives the ideo of n square or
circle for instnnce; Lnnguage supplies the word or sound .
by whicit we are enabled to call up the idea in the minds
of others.
l\letnphysicin1 authors complain of the indefiniteness of
terms; but phrenology tenchcs us, that this vagueness nrisea
from the different combination of the faculties in different
indi\'iduuls. As long as men do not agree in their organi-
zation, they cannot pgree in their conception of the mean·
ing of words expressive of emotion and judgments. Sop·
pose we tnke the word Consci~ntiousness, for instanc~; the ·
idea nttnched to it by l\lelnncthon, and that attached to it
by Haggart, must differ exceedingly; no definiteness or
expression could ever give the one the con1prehenaiYe COil·
ception or the other. Again, the idea attached to the word
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
·aGO ·
Colour by a blind mah, must differ much from that which
it generally represents. So to Anne Ormerod you could
mot, by any combination of words, give a elenr idea of tho
meaning of.Melody and llnrmony; nor to Mr.l\lilne, of
Scarlet. In consequence of the difference in the fi•cuhies
of men, definitions themselves ore very differently appre-
hended. .Mathematical longunge·is dt>finite, because not
expressive of feelings and ideas which differ in different
individuals, but of precise and determ.note proportions of
epace and number. It is utterly impossible, therefore, to
lrome a philosophical language, like numbers in nmthemat·
.ics, applicable with pcrfc~t precision to moral disquisitions.
All men agree to.use the words justice, charity, nod oth·
era; but question different persons about the idens which
they attach to these words, and you find that they widely
differ.
Education has been conducted on the fundamental er-
ror that words con explain words; but you cnn hnve no
meansofknowing their meuning, except the emotion nnn)ed
be felt, and the idea indicated be perceived. The itlea mny
be po11essed without the word, and the word without the
idea. Bence the absurdity of so much attention to mere
words ai is now paid; though you put the whole of John·
eon's dictionary into the mind of a person, you will not
have educated him.
An author will be found to uso those words with the
most clearness and felicity, which express mental feelings
or operations naturally vigorous in himself; but to fuil
when he attempts to elucidate subjects requiring o large
de1elopment of such organs as in him nre weak. Thus
Moore uses epithets and illustrations expressive of attach·
ment with·inimitable beauty. l\Jr. Stewart manifest!' cor·
·reotneu and elegance in narrative and when treating of the
moral eentimenta, but·becomes loose and -inaccurate wben
.. enten upon originnl abstract discuuion, requiring the
'....mtt·ot·the higher intellectual poweno , ...
o, •izedbyGoogle
LANGUAGE. 261
In this bend of Sir J. C. Smith, Language is very promi-
ucut ; .in this of Wordsworth, moderate ; in this of Canovi\-
Sl)lall. '.rhe difference betwee•• smull Langl1uge und large
is this: in the former case, an individual bas one or two ap-
propriate words for each idea; in the latter, be hns several,
hii verbal nflluence is grcnt; nnd with sucb un orgnuiza.-
tion ns Canova's, he would be nble to rise to the highest
order of eloquence. When Language is Ycry large, with-
out a good gcnernl intellect, it is surprising what a volume
of words can be po\trcd forth to express n very few ideas,
nnd t~ometimcs to expre~s no idens at nll. Large Lnn-
gunge und Inc.lividunlity, with grcnt Rapidity, promote pun-
ning, nnd that style of wit designated ns " goocl things,"
·"apropos remnrlt~," "clever bits," which I hnve seen
greatly manifested when the ·orgnn cn1led ".it has been
very moderately developed. ·
I have noticed thnt he is not nlways the best Latin oud
Greek scholur who hns the largest organ of Lnngunge.
Such a head ns this of Roscoe, in which Indh·idunlity,
Eventuality nnd Comparison nro large, is well ndnpted to
give readiness in such ncquisitions.
The following very interesting case of disease in this or.
gnn was connnunicnted by 1\lr. Hood of Kilmarnock.
A person suddenly forgot the name of every object in na-
ture, though hi~ knowledge of things seemed unimpaired.
When 1\lr. Hood cnlled, the pntient, by n variety of signtr,
gave him to understand that he was perfectly well in every
respect, except n slight pain referable to the eyebrows. He
comprehended every word which was spoken or nddressed
to him, nnd though he hnd idens ndequatc ton full reply,
the words by which to express tbem were ab:Jent. Yes nod
No, were the only two words which he never entirely forgot.
This patient died between two and three yenrs nfterward,
nnd n lesion was found in the left hemi~phere of the brain,
which terminated at half nn inch from the surface, wbere
it resta over the middle of the superorbitnr plate. It ap-
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
L.,NOUAOB.
pears to me that tho lesion's being on one side only, RC·
eount. for his power of undcrstnnding "orda whilu he bnd
not tl•o power of employing them.
A Presbytcrinn clergymnn of Dnth used to object to
)thrcnulu.~ty, n~« ttnsupportecl by eviclcnco mul tho nuthority
of gimcl nnme11. llis wifu wutl 11eizcd with the npoplcxy,
and when aho recovered, her power of ut~ing words wns
funnel to be impnirecl, though her other fi\culties were entire•.
Sho could undcrstnncl lnngungc when nddrcssed to her,
nud nrtieulnto p~rfeetly, but could not uRc words to cxprc11s
her own·iden~. After· this event, he cCJ\sed to condemn
the scienc~. Sho recovered, but for Rome time nf\er mndo
many blundcn. I wns told of the follmving tunong oth-
ers: A clergymanenmo to the tnble in n somewhnt sloven-
ly conclition ns to dress, mul, iustend of asking him if ho
."ottld hnvc some soup, she inquired if he would lll\ve some.
clenn linen.
1\lr•.Drown, of Scotlnnd, who i~ Pttpcrintcndcnt of n grent
Juuntic nsylum, nnd nn excellent phrenologist, thinlu• this
orgnn is sometimes singly discnsecl, in cnses where words
ore sent forth incessnntly without meaning or coherency.
Physi~inns ·should be cnrcful, therefore, to distinguish be- .
twecu nctions nntl cxpressiont~, in their investigntions nnd
testimony concerning enscs of insnnity. lie thinl\s thnt
the mnnifcstntion of whnt is ·culled the " gift of tongues"
among the lrvingites, nnd others, depends in pnrt upon de-
rangement of this orgnn. 'l'lu\t the brnin is deranged, is
sufficiently evident from the nppearnnce of such persons
in o paroxysm-the bright, piercing nnd restless eyes; the
extended and woviug arms, the unusually deep, full voice,
and wild mnnner. often continue till they fall down .ex·
bausted.•
• A mAn wn1 one drty pro10nted to Frederick11.,endowed withsuch
a memory, that he recited by heart a couaidernblo piece which be had
Mftr heucl read but once. The amo day, Voltnire hnd to read aome
Ytrlll to the kiu1. Frederick.coucealecl the •trauaer behind a tcreeD-
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
COMP.\RISON.
34. Com•.\ntsoN.
10 >'.
.. ~ ~\
~· ~\
l. 2. 3.
J. I'ITT. lndi\·. motlernte. J·:,·ent. l•1rgr. Comp. rntber larg.•.
2. ArooaF.. lndiv. large. E,·ent. 11mall. Comt'· \'cf\' lu~.
3. SuERIOAN. Imliv. larGe· E\'Cilt. large. Comt'· fun:
This orgnn occupies the midtllc of the superior }lOl'tion
of the forchcnu. When prcdominuut, it gins to tbis rc-
and wh~11 Yoltairo bntl finished reading, he l1lld him thnt the pit•t'e wa~t
neither new nor of hi!\ cnmpo~ition; nut! then mn1le hi!l nccompli<'t' np•
pcnr, who rt'citctl it nnd maintained thnt he batl him!lelf t'otnpo~cd it
twenty yenrs before. I.et tho reader judge of the fury of the irn.<~Ciblc
Voltaire, ollll of the "hout~ ofthcphilo$ophcr of Snns Souci. G:all, ,•• 10.
'Vhen one h:ts frequent oec:1~ions of ob~ning nnimol!l, he learns to
undel)tnnd their langnngc, nntl knows the tlitl't•rent inflexions n."Snmed
by tho cry of tho cock, the chicken, nml other bird11, oecording to the
eentimcnt or iden, which they wish to uprcs,., I a:~w a flock of dncka
utter confused sound~ with all tbe m:nks of inquietude; their 11ingnlar
movements fixed my attention; I couM nnt tlonbt thnt tJaey wero oecu·
pied with ~:omething that greatly intrrt•sh'tl them; their inquichul~ be·
c:amo c\·ery moment more .'·i~ibl~: nt length n duck, that had run front
a d~tanco with full 11pecd, threw hcr"t'lf into the court. All her con»-
panions rccci\'Cd ber with marks of tho most li\'ely joy; nil :•pJiro:tclu.>cl
her, extended their head:~ townrds her, ~looping llown, wnggin;; their
L'ihl, nn1l mnl•ing a sort of re\'t'rencc. 'l'he qnackin;; bec:ame more
and more animated and nil fini~hcd by retiring much pl.!ascd, into their
eonr. No\V will any one tell me that the!OC ducks did not spcnk to
each other? I :un informed of nil the \yauta of my dogs by tho diff'cr•
ent •otmds which they utter. l\Iy monkey mnnife11ts by sounds nhvoya
anodiliod, the most vnried wnntt~~, acntimcnt11, nficctiona, nnd illunl!l. There
are none even to my domel!ticll, wh!) do not ttllllcrstand thia lansul\ge.
Gall, "• 30.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
..
264 COMPARISON.
gion n rounded fuUncss~ Dr. GnU often conversed wi~h a
•aJJtJnt possestaing much vivncity of mind, who, whenever
put to difficulty iu proving rigorously his positions, had·
always recourse to a ·comparison, and thus escaped at a
tangent. By this menns he, inn manner, painted his ideas,
and bis opponents were defented nnd cnrried along with
' him ;-dTccts which he never could protluce by simple nr·
gument. He found in bis }~end nn eminence in ·tho form
of n rcver~cd pyrnmid in this region. Subsequent int~tanccs
fully cstnblit~bed the organ.
Comparison ditacovers analogies, resemblances and dif·
fcrcnces. You perceive it \'cry lnrgc in the beads of Sheri·
dnn, Chulmer~t, nnd Dr. Thomson. In those of Pope, Dr.
Johnson, and Gibbon, you sec it, Lnngunge nntl Eventnnli-
ty, very lnrge. We hnve nn orgnn of 'l'unc which com·
pnres tunes; one of Colour which compnrcs colourt~ ; and
it mny be usl,ed-what need is there, then, of a distinct or-
,ran of Comparison1 Compnrison compnres things of
different naturet~, as a note nnd n colour ; and combines
· the results of the other faculties harmoniously. Time
\\'ould be pleased with good music; but Comparison would
be offended nt sprightly music, however good, on a mourn·· .
ful occasion. It ~djudges the appropriateness of block ns
the clothing of grief.
'fhis organ tnkes within its sphere, nnd shows the rescm·
blnnces of, things the mo!;t opposite in kind. It compares
n·light seen nfitr in n dark night, to n good deed shining in
n naughty world;· or the ltingdom of Hcnven, ton groin of
mustard seed. It finds nnnlogies between the ·qualities of
mnttcr nnd of mind : Thus we spenl' of n beautiful senti·
sentiment, n sparkling thought, profound nwe, light de..
mennour, a 1olid nrgument, black despnir, a cutting re·
proof, a ltea"!J nccusntion, a brilliant concep~ion, on cntan·
lkd orntion, a soft reply, a burning rnge, a freezing terror,
a lt.Grd answer, n biting snrensm. It is ~he fountain ofpro·
Terbl: u "a cat•in glovcs .catehes no mice;" "a fat kitch·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CAUSALITY.
t'll mnlu.'s n lema will ;" " tho t~lccpy fol: cntchcs no poul-
try," ns l,oor Uichnrd snys. l\loore hns it of great size;
mad the \Ycstminster Re,·icw remarked thnt there are two .
thousand five hundred similes in his life of Sheridan, be-
~ides mc~aphors nnd nllegoricul c:xprc~~;ions. Its activity
is essential to allegories:. ns thc·Vision of 1\lirzn.
This fnculty nttnches us to compurison without determin-
ing its l(inds ; und ns we nrc most fim1ilinr with thostl ob-
jects wliich nrc rclnted to our most ncth·e fncultics, from
them nrc our nnnlogies chiefly drawn. lie who bat~ Lo-
cality Jnrge,. will draw thence his examples. Dr. Chalmers
clmws his illustrations from mechanics nnd astronomy ;
und the orgnns which tnkc cognizance of these are large
in his mnsl<.. Comparison is more rarely deficient thrut
any other of the intellectunl powers; nnd the Scriptures
ure ntlda·ossed to it in nu eminent degr-ee.
Comparison is large in nil popular l!lpenkers, as you see
in Pitt, Currnn nud Sheridan. It is lnrge in the North
American Indians, who often manifest it. It aids the ora-
tor, by giving him n command of figures; and its mani-
festations are often mistnken for Menlity. But Compari-
son produces no passion, no intense feeling or enthusiasm;
it cnlmly nnd coolly plays oft" its spnrkling fire-works; but
Ideality infuses passion, prompts the mind to soar after the
benntiful, the splendid, and the sublime. Combine large
Comparison with grent Indi\·iduality nod Cuusntity, and
the ttimiles will be copious, ingenious and appropriate ; add
large Identity, and they will now twinkle in delicate loveli-
ness like n tttnr, now blnze in meridian splendour like the
aun; while iutenl!e feeling nnd lofty entbueiasm will impart
strength and majesty to all the conceptions.
35. CAUSALITY.
This orgnn is situated on the upper and lateral parts or
the forehead, nnd when Iorge gives prominence to theae
parts. Franklin is the most splendid instance or Conlpui-
~3·
o, •izedbyGoogle
,,
CAllULITY.
aon nnd Causality which we posses!'. Causality is lnrge in
_lta·mmohun Roy, 1\.uut und llutkc. Dr. Thomas Brown
snys·; u A. cnuse is thnt which precedes any change, nnd
which, exi~ting ut ·any time in similar circumstances, has
been alwnys, mad will be ulwnytt, immedintt!ly followed by
•\ similnr change. l,riority in the sequence obst!rved, and -
ionrinblenesa of nntecedcncc in the pnst nnd futur-e se·
quencea, supposed, ore the clements and only elemcJtts,
combined in the nature of a cuuse." According to this
definition, dtiy is the cause of night and .night the cause ·
of day; but· this is n definition by means of lru:lividuality
and Eventuality merely, und is not complete. In addition
to invariable sequence, an impression of power or efficien-
cy in the antecedent to produce the consequent, appears to
me to be excited in the mind by contemplating instances
of causation in·nnture ; and to be the primitive mental af-
fection connected with this organ. Suppose a bent bow,
with the arrow drnwn to the head, but retained in that po·
litiol), be presented; it is nn object of still life, of simple
existence, exciting Individuality ; when it expnnds and the
arrow starts from the string, it becomes an object of Even-
• tuality; but beside, an instinctive impression is generated
in the mind of efficiency in the bow to propel the arro\V;
and this is given by the faculty under consideration. The
moat illiterate snvage would repeat the operation with eon-
. tidence that the etfect would follow. A monkey would not,
·though it saw the net repeated R thousand times: I hove
.een this tried. A monkey was kept by a family with
which I was acquainted. It \Vas the custom of the boys to
1hoot at apples on the tree and bring them down. The
monkey being nry fond of apples, used to pick them up to
eat. I wanted to see whether it could be taught to use the
bow and arrow for the purpose of supplying itself; I there·
Core got the boys to bring down apples in this way often in
itt pre~enee, then leave the bow and arrow with it; but it
aeYer attempted to use them. Again it is said that there
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CAUSALITY.
are monkeys nmong the rocks of Gibraltar that wntch the
. carpenters nt work on the bench, and often see them put
woocl on their fires to keep them burning. As soon as the
cnrpcnters retire they come·down, in cold wenther, from the
rocks, sit nrountl the fire, nnd wnrm themsch·eg with the
grcnt delight ; but though the fuel ·for keeping up the fires
lies nil nronnd, they never nttempt to replenish them by a
fresh supply. It is the possession of this fnculty which,
more than nny other, gives man suc.h an imt:nense auperi·
ority over the brutes.
Causality gives the conception of causation in all ita
forms. It gives facility in rlivining the motives of men; is
on essential clement of a profound nnd comprehensive in·
tellect, nud in such as possess great instinctive sagacity,
as Napoleon nnd Franklin. In Words\vorth~ ns -you see,
this organ is large, and by its too grent manifestation he
my~titics his poetry. Some like his poetry very much; oth·
er..; t!:~Jike it. I find those who admire it, to have Ideality
and Causality lnrge. 'Vherever "'ordsworth is not pro-
found he nppenrs to me puerile. This organ is very large
in Brunell, and -is the fountain of his immense resources.
Here is n mnsk of Lord Brougham, nnd it indicates his
essential character. His forte lies in the knowing faculties,
which nre immense, in large propensities and sentiments,
great Firmness and Self-Esteem, and an iron tempera·
ment ; Brougham is a learned and Herculean but not pro·
found mnn. This i~ the hend of Pitt, the celebrated Eu·
glish 1\linister, in which you see Causality only moderate;
he wns not profound, hut n great mnnufncturer of expcdi· .
ents, n master of detnils, n reudy nud plausible speaker.
Had he pottses~ed enough of Causality, he would hnve fore-
seen that the more atrocities the French committed the
sooner they would b)nze out ; that while destroying each
. other, they were the least formidable to their neighbours-
he would have saved his country oceans of blood aod
countless treasure ; but his. long administration wae one of
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CAUSALITY.
ezpedienll, his grent principle being to niark what Napo-
leon ditl, and do precisely the revert~e. I consider him
to have been a greater evil to Englnnd thnn nny other·
man that ever Jived. ·Gall, as you see, hod immense Cau-
sality, Comparison, and Individuality, and in his dis-
covery he m.anifested the grent netivity of these organs, be-
ing the first to notice facts nod trnee their enuses and eon- _
.equences, which hod been presented to the observation of
all men for ttix thousand yenrt~. This organ, too, is lnrge,
na you sec, in E~liotson, Spurzheim, Ariosto, Tnsso, 1\lil-
ton, Sully, Lord Knimes, Ducon, nod also in Cobbett, ns
you see by this portrait.
·I have seen anumber of striking instances illustrative
or Causality in deficient and nmple development. A ques-
. tion arose in an evening party concerning the enuse of the
harvest moon. In one gentleman present, Individuality
and Eventuality predominated; in another, Causality was
the larger intellectual organ. In nn int:tnnt the formt·t·
said that it was owing to the moon's ndvnncing North nt
the time of her being full. The Iotter· p1u1sed for a time,
and added: "Yes, sir, you are quite right." Observing
that they·arrh·ed nt the result by different mental processea,
I asked them how they knew this to be the cnt~e. The
·fintsaid : "Oh, I recollect that Professor Plnyfnir stated it
in his lectures to be so." The other replied: 1 hod forgot-
. ten the precise filet, but I recollect the principle on which
the Profe11or mentioned it to depend ; by a moment's re-
Section I fo1lowed it out, nnd arrived nt the conclusion
which tbis gentlemen has just announced." 1'his is n
atriking.example of the mode of action of these different
faculties. Individuality knows only facts, Eventuality .
eYents, ond Causality principles.
When· Causality is ill developed, facts are not generally
eonaidered as having a necessary dependence nod eonnec·
tion, however obvious such dependence nod connection
may be to thoae in whom thia organ is large, such facts will
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MATI;RIALIS&I
be considered a8 curious coincidences. From this class
of minds, ever ready to catch ~uperficinl glimpseiJ, the pub-
lic received the fir:it accounts of phrenology, and on them
is ehm·genble the misrepresentntjons which so long impe-
ded it:J course.
In treating of Veneration, I mentioned thnt it gives the
tendency to wor~hip, while Cnusnlity give:t the knowlt>dge
of God. Suppose the humnn body be investibrnted, (nnd
in my opinion no suhjt·ct is cnlculnted to lend the mind to
tl1e conviction of n Deity'tl exi~tence more certainly thnn
such nn inve~tigation,) Individuality nnd the knowing pow·
er!l, by examining the structnrl', would present Causality
with dntn, from which man could unerringly infer that it was
made by n grent, powerful, benevolent and in~elligent Being.
Indeed; when n naind in which Cnusnlity is powerful, survey•
the phenomena of nnture, the conviction of a Catuse of them
arises intuitively nnd irresistibly from the mere exerci:se of
the faculty. Voltnirc had large Causality, you have bcnrd
of him as nn Infidcl, and phrcnologil'ltiJ have been told hy
wny of objection that his organ of Veneration was lnrgc.
It is tnte that he wns an unbeliever in Christianity, nnd
thnt his Veneration was large, but there is no contradiction
here. Belief in any reli~ion should depetul on evidence;
and intellect judge~ of evidence. Voltaire's. Veneration,
was mnnife11ted in his sycophancy to 1\.ing.c and persons of
high rank : also in his !l('n~e of natural religion. He \VRI .
called, in his own nge and country, n fimatie, for erecting
n church at Ferney, which stands to this dny, with the fol·
lowing inscription upon it: " Erected to God by Voltaire."
t.IATERIALISl\1.
I have now described the situation and functions of the
vnrious organs ; and the question presents itself, What is
the substance of the mind1 Against phrenology the cry
or Materialism hns been raised. I shall tberefore proceed
to COnsider this subject.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
HATERIALI8M.
The grent error of mony ita, that they expect to settle the
·question of immortnlity by determining the substnnce of
the mind. They l'eem to suppose thnt if it be constituted
of some very refined nn~ noble mnterinl, it must be inten-
ded ft.r n glorious destiny ; but that if it be mude of gros!!
mnterinls it cnnnot become the inhnbitant of 1my sphere
higher thnn the enrth, or hove nny existence prolonged
beyond that of the -body. Now this conclusion is unttonnd.
Mnn hns not the power ofdiscovering for what any thing iii
destined, by nn examination of its subJtance. Present the
chemist with a~ ncorn-do you think that by examining its
tubstnnee he cnn tell that it ill destined to become 11 stntcly
oak1 ·Present him with the egg of n crocodile, nod the
egg of nn ostrich-would he be nble to tell you, by exnm·
ining their substance, which· would produce the one nod
which the other nnimnl1 'Vould you expect him, by
chemical or any other form of examinntion to tell you that
the egg of n caterpillar would fir~t turn to 1\ dirty-Jooking
worm, then to nn inert chrysnlis, and finnlly burst forth n
.butterfly radiant ·with benuty and elega.nce1 You know
that to examine the tcubstnnce in order to ascertain these
things would be utter folly ; and it i.s just as futile to nt·
·. tempt to ascertain the nature of mind or its destiny by an
attempt to uscertain its substance. All that we can disco-
nr of the brain is, thnt it is composed of wnter, white and
red fatty matter, osmozome, nlbumen, nnd vnrious salts;
but thnt the brnin is the mind we do not maintain, and
think it imposeible tp prove. Of the substance of the mind
we know absolutely nothing. But suppose the soul to be
material, how would its incnpncity for imiJ!ortality be
·proyed 1 By- w.hnt menns would the objector demonstrate
it to be·too laqrd for the joys of hennn, or too •oft for the
tames or hellt
Material.isan.is a grent phnntom which frightens weak
mindt. I wish the1 would reduce their ideas to order and
to a precite f'onn. They assume that the7 know that the
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MATERULISM. 271
mind is immaterial, I deny they hnve any means of deter-
mining of what es~ence it is composed. Reason and Reve·
Jntion are equnlly silent concerning t·he eta~ence of the mind. ·
Agnin-they assume that phrenology necessarily lends to
the belief thnt it is mnterial. In this assumption thl'y com-
mit two blunders-first, phrenologists prof<>ss to kn~w
nothing ofthe essence of the mind. Secondly, lfphrenol-
olgy did show, by legitimnte evidence, thnt the mind is
mnterinl, what would follow. \Vhy, thnt mntter is the b~st
possible substance, isnsmuch as mind is the work of the
Creator, both in substnnce nnd endowment.
This question of substance hns, then, nothing to do with
phrenology. But though the mind may be immnterinl, we
must dismiss the supposition that mind cnn be manifested
lYithout mntter. 1\lnny, indeed, suppose that consciousness
determines that we think without material ngents; hut this
is a vulgar error. 'Ve are not conscious of an olfactory,
gustntory, optic, or auditory nerve; yet nil kno\v that to
smell, tnste, see or henr without them is !mpossible. It is
true, indeed, that we do not feel a material substnnce with-
in, elaborating thought nnd emotion, but neither do we feel
n spiritual sub~tance. Consciousness, therefore, leaves the
matter precisely where it finds it.
The question of 1\lnteriulism is as foolish and unimpor-
tant as the one so much agitnted in the dark ages, of how
mnny nngels enn dnnce on the point of n needle; nnd hns
nothing whntever to do with the question of Immortality.
"The writers in favour of the immortality of the sou),'•
says Dr. Rush, " bnve done that truth grent injury by con-
necting it necet~sarily with its immateriality. The immortali-
ty of the soul depends on the will of the Deity, and not on
any supposed properties of spirit. 1\lntter is in its own
nature as immortal as spirit. It is resolvnble by bent ond
mixture into a variety of forms; but it require11 the same
Almighty hnnd to annihilate it that it did to create it." 1'o
ascertnin the qualitit1 of the mind is the only true n1odc
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
al.\TJ:RI.\LISM.
or di11covcring mnn'tt nnturc nnd llcstiuy, nml the sphere
. for which ho i11 ntln),tecl. By <'Xnmin~ the fins nnd struct-
ure of the fit~h, you 1,crccivo it11 ndnptntion to wntcr; by
exnmining·the wingtt nnd t~lructure of n bird, you perceive
itt ntluptratiun to the nir-so, to understnml mnn's destiny,
his qw\litics must be invctttignted. And whnt nre these
(p:ditics t We tincl mnn with fhculties which the lower
onimnls do nut possess; he is enpnblc of sonring fnr be-
yond 8ublunnry spnec, nml comprchcntling worlds nnd sys·
terns of 'vorlds ; he hntt Hope pointing ont futurity o~ nn
object of ceaseless nnxiety nnd contcmplntion, and leading
him to n desire n life beyond the grave; he has Ideality,
giving n11pirntions !lftcr perfection, which this world ennnot
eatit~fy; he hn11 Ucncvolcncc, giving him n desire ·to see
these nftlietions which men here suffer put fnr nwny; he
hna Consci<'ntioU!.IIlCll!!, cmving for a stnte or things in
which Justice shnll reign llluprcme; he hue Veneration,
prompting him to more immediate communion wit·h a God
whom he adores•. Now the intellect knows thnt the1.1e
aspirations cnnnot be fully satisfied by any thing which
earth aft'ords, and concludes thnt there is some other sphere
in which they mny be gmtified. And it is folly to fear
that all these glorious aspirations will be defeated, by the
Creator having chosen a wrong substance out of which to
oonstitute the mind. ·
. '
J;9, ized by Coogle
ON TUI: T&MPER.UtENT8.
INTERVENING LECTURE ON TilE TEMPERA)IENTS.
1\lr. Combo commenced thi11, by re11eating tho expJanation or the
. temper:unents gh·en in his !ICCond lecture. lie then remarked that
to fumilinrizo the clnss with tho various si~na enumerated, Ito would re·
quest members to 11tnnd in his place, ~d allow tho rest to jnd~e of
their temperament, nud ut the close oreach examination he would make
such corrections ns be deemed neccss.1ry. Aa a commoncentent, he
subjected him8Clf to cxnminntion; on which n gcntlemnn denominated
his temperament tacm>11s bi/io11s,·which Mr. Combo conl'idorod conoet.
remarking that in hi~ younger tlnya, tho bilious prod.omin:lted, but OW•
ing to grent and lung continued ntontal activity, the nervous now t're-
nilt~. ·
During tho examinations, 1\lr. Combo called llttention to the thrc!e
grent viscernl cavitiell, remarking thnt on their rclath·o size, tempera·
ment gre:ltly dependll. 'fhus if tho abdominal and thoracic cavities be
small and the cranial ca,·ity large, the ntnoua temperament is indtcnted.
lfthe abdomen nnd skull be comparatively rcmall, nnd the chest large.
the sang11i11c temperament i:s iudicnted. Tho abdomen's predominance
indicates the lymphatic temperament. no· called attention to tlte many
confirmatory in>~t;mces prc~entcd by the examination. In most or the
gentlemen examined there was a striking conespondence between the
·signs before enumerated, the nccount which they ga,·c of their ment:ll
:md physical activity, and the rclati,·e size of the three great ca\·ities.
An elderly gentleman's temperament was snid to be t~enous snn.,trUifl<.
To this ho objected on ncconnt of certain conditions of tho body, exist·
·ing in his youth, thi:s lclll\lr. Combo to dwl'll 11omewhnt nt lcn::th on
tho chnngos which tho tf'tntleran~tmt nmlcrgocs by 1\ long continnt.-d
course oftrnining. llo illnstrntcd his remnrk11, by rclnting a com·ersation
ho once had with Dr. Sptm:heim in which that gentlcm:m informed him.
that he had originally, n large portion of the lymphatic temtleramont, u
bad all his family; but thnt in himsetr. the lymphntic had grndu:llly di·
minished, and the ner;on!l gradually ineren11ed ; whereas in bia sisters,
owing to mental inactivity, the reverse hnd happened, and, when. he
Yisitod thoro, af\er being nbscnt mnny yeui'IJ, he found them, to U80 hia
own expreuion, " as large ns tuns."
The examination had proceeded for 1ome time. when &lr. Combe in·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
274 ON TIIB EXAMINATION OF IIEADS.
vitcd the ladies to come forwurd, rcmBrking that in Dostou, aomc ha11
done 110, nnd in Philadelphia, mnny. Aner evidence of reluctance
aome consented, on which tho lecturer ·enid, "I cannot n.llow tho occn-
aion to pnss without complimenting the ln1liet~ on this exnmple. I
woultlaay with the l,!rcntest respect, tbnt on compnring the Indica of this,
with tlm"o of thu old country ; the former upponr to me to posscu o
greot denl more ,,,,,.,,;,c /,oJJlt. There is n lmckwnrdneas to como for·
wnrd on or.cn11ion" wuirh uro perfectly RJlproprintc, lellt their conduct
ahould appenr bold and singular. Now no one ctm appreciate female
delicacy more hij[hly thnn I, bnt when n thing is proper to he done, and
the time npproprintt.!, ladies. ought to have sufficient confidence to do,
what they deem right. 'l'lllly will ulwny11 be supported and borne outby
the 1ood acnse nllll magn:mimity of their friend11 nnd the community."
The leeturer remarked on the practical examination of heads, that
we ought first to toke the measurement with ll pllir of caUipen from
The occipital spine to Individuality.
From Coocentrativeness to Comparison.
" Enr to occipital spine.
" F.ar to Individuality.
" Ear to Comparison.
" ·DestrnctiveneFs to Dcstructivene!ll.
" Secretiveness to Secretiveness.
" Camiousnc>l!s to Cautiousness.
" ldenlity to ldcnlity.
" Constructivenell~ to ConstrnctivcneSII.
"These meuurcmcnta ore for the purpose ofdetermining the nbaolute .
eize of the head. lu speaking of the distinct organs we usc the tcnna
..,.,U, moderate, f•U, and 14Tge, and to eBch muy add minus or plus.
Now, in using these term!', we 11pcnk relath•cly, the relation being be·
tween encb respecti,·c organ, and the remaining organs of the same
head; hence the. nece111ity of measurement. Thus I may eay of my
IDgen, that this is 11mall, thi"' moderate, thj, fuU nnd this large: but I
mi1ht use the same terms in speaking of a child's finger11, though the
larpst of ita hnnd woold be smaller thnn tho smallest of mine."•
• It would be well if all phrenologists, in their atntement ofcerebral
clenlopment, wonld uAe a uniform ICOle of word11 and numerol1,
iDNad of the variety now employed. Tbe following ecale appean to
.. the moat appropriate.
1. Idiocy.
i. Very small,
a. Small.
4. Rnther amall.
6. aloderate.
6.
7.
8;
9.
10.
Rather full.
Full.
Rnther lar«t•
Lorge.
Very Large.
Digit1zedbyGoogle
PR.o\CTJC,\.L UTJI,JTY OF PIIRENOLOQY. 275
"Af\cr determining the mcn:~urcnlcnh•, you ~thould JlrOCt.'Cd to al'CCrtnin
the lli:t.o of the re!:pccti\·e regions, hy the method bcli~rc explained.
" Hn\·ing dune thill, you 11houltl procee1l to t•xumine tho inqi\·idunl or-
gaul!; you muy nt fiNt mal•e mi~take!~,lmt return to thll 11amo head ngllio
anJnbnin,nntil you hn\'e become linuiJiur wir.h it. And I would udviso
yon ne\'er to exnmiuo. a head in part; nlwnys go through o\·ery organ;
this crcatcll the ucce,:sity of finding tho locntiou of e:1ch, n1ufin judging
of clmracter, Na\'e!l you from many errora~. l't•rhnps tho Edinburgh
)lhrcnulogistll owe their 11li)Jilriority more to their prncticnl knowledge
than to anything el,;c. \Vo mado it n condition of admission to our
society, that every new n.~ociate should submit his hend to examination
hy each of tlu: members, who af\crwanl,; compared notcs; in this way
tbey became so nccnrate that in six examinnti.cms, l'j different gentle.
men, there would be no .dilference of opinion.
"Do not be discourngcJ if r.he characteryou think the head to indicate
•loes not agree with that which the individual deems him:telf to po!18CSS;
agreat many persons nrc unacquainted with themselves. I knew a lady
whose character was written ont by a phrenologist, aud she was so
amused with illl blnndcrs, ns !<he called them, that she carried it about
with her to show it to all her friends. They all recognised the great ac-
curacy with which it described her, and laughed at the graphic descrip-
tion or her self.cstuem nnd singularities of manner; she supposed, how-
t•vcr, that they were laughing not at her character, but at the phreuologist.
"I have found phrenology to be of the greatest ~rvico to me in choos-
ing clerks and ~tervants or domestic helps as you call them. \Vhen in
'\he profession of the law, I ne,·er would employ a clerk who had not a
large coronal region. And this has been my practice too. wid1 regard to
•lomestictt, for the last ten years; I would rather trust to an examination,
indeed, than to a certificate of character. Being iu \Vant of a senant,
une applied who had an excellent coronal region and good intellec:tual
development. 1\ly niece went to inquire of her cbllracter from her late
employer, and was told that she WM disagreeable, disobliging, .IUi.d the
worst ten1pered creature she had e\·er employed. I sniil this cannot be
correct, I will employ her. I did so, she rewniued with me three yean
and behaved excellently; she is now married and an exemplary \vire
and mother. I afterwards learned d1e reason of this dislike on the pm
of her former employer. The lady had a lfmaller bruin, leu coronal
lllld intellectual region than the servant, she instinctively felt her inferi-
ority; this irritated her, and she became very unreuouable and eome-
what abusive, which occasionnlly rou11ed the sernut'• self-esteem aDd
combatlveue!:l, and produced di.-.,greeable scenes.
"Those who thus np]1ly phrenology find its great ad,·antage, and thia
· tn spite of the aneen of the ignornut and presumptuous, who eeem to
think uothiug cnu be true till believed in by thew. The Pope once ck-
o; tized 'YGoo,gle
-~;6 OPPOSITION TO PIIRENOLOGY.
c1ared thnt the world did not turu round; ot the 1111me time, that at w1,1
. tnmin~ round, ond cnrrying him nnd his whole college of cardiuala
· oround with it. 1\len say thnt phrenology is not true, ot tho same time
thot their own bend• demonatrnte it. I wu much nmuaed the other day
at a putlemnn opprooching m~ with the tone ond natural laupage of
combativeneaa, ond ottocking me on account of phrenology. Having
.ml\de up my n1iud u to ita troth, ond being ot perfect ease on the eub-
ject, I did not feel inclined to disturb my~e1f with quarrelling, .0 I talked
.. calmlyu f.do now, yet it wu ten minutea before the laupage or
combativeaeta diaappeued. Tbua while oppoeinc \)brenolo17, bia or-
paiatiea and maoner were proofe or ita troth."
..
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
HODEl OF ACTIVITY.
, ·.
LECTURE XII.
MODES OF ACTIVITY OF T.HE FACULTIES.
ANY organ whatever mny come into activity from the mere
•timulus of the blood, and consequently involuntarily. It
may be inferred, therefore, that each organ has a nece!sary,
natural and virtuous sphere ofactivity ; else would the Crea-
tor have formed some organs for the especial purpose of
doing wrong. I have before explained to you the effect of
temperament. You know, ofcourse, that the rapidity of the
spontaneous action will much depeud on it, and die pot11er,
on the size of the organ. Intensity results rr.om an actiYe
temperament, combined with large size. One in whom the
lymphatic temperament predominates, will have. a slo•
spontaneous action ; the action of the other temperaments
will, ofcourse, be stronger.
MODES OF ACTIVITY OF THE PROPENSITIES .\ND SENTIMENTS.
The faculties of the Propensities and Sentiments cnnnot
be excited to activity directly by a mere act of the will.
We caunot conjure up the emotions of Fcnr, Comp'u~sion,
and Veneration, by merely willing to experience them.
The feelings may, however, be brought into n~tiyity from.··
internal causes: some feel an internal prompting to fight or
oppose ; some to pursue wealth ; some are· pnssionatelr
fond of the constructive arts, without knowing whence,
how, or why these feelings cnme. They spring from the
BJ?Ontaneous activity of the organs by which they are s~
verally manifested, and each organ hns a tendency to ac:.
tilit)' in proportion, cmteris paribus, to ita ti7.e. From thii
24
o, •izedbyGoogle
MODEl OF ACTIVITY.
activity nrises the subject of continual thought. One in
whom Love of AJlprobntion and Self-Esteem are large,
l''ill be fired with ambition, and love to.be·clothed with au-
thority. I snw n child yesterday, eight yeartJ of age, in
whom Love of Approbution, hnitation, .Individuality nod ·
Eventuality ore lnrge ; and already the chief desire he has
is to see his name in print. Insanity is the result of this
spontaneous nction, when excessive and not controlable by
the will. Sometimes one organ is morbidly aetive, while the
others are sane ; there have been instances of people re-
questing to be bound, that they might be prevented from
giving way to their strong desire to commit manslaughter.
In such eat~es, to convince the intellect is uself!SS ; the aber-
ration depends on ccrcbrnl disease : and you might as well
attempt to talk gout out.ofthe toe, ns to tnlk discnse out of
the brain.
In th; next plnce, each fnculty may be roused into ac-
tivity by the presentment of its appropriate objects. 1.'hus,
Benevolence is roused by a scene of distress ; Philopro· ·
· genitivenetts by the sight of children ; ld~nlity by \vhatever
is ·beautiful. ·When we become acquainted with this lnw,
we obtain, to n great extent, the mastery over the activity.
of the facultie!'l. But the propensities and sentiments mny,
in the next plnce, be roused by words which convey such
ideas es stimulate them to acti:vity., Thus, the description
of a beautiful scene may produce activity in Ideality. This
last is, however, the lenst effective stimulus; to present a
~cene·of dietress.appeals much more powerfully to Bene~
volence than to describe one. Suppose n. shipwreck bt>
viridly described : it may greatly excite the feelings ; but if
· • ahipwreck be witnessed, there cnn be no doubt of its ex·
citing them ten times more. Sometimes the excitement.p~o·
duced by a powerful external stimulus is su.ch ns.to disorder
the faculties. A gentleman waa suiliog, iu.hi, own smpll
pleatt~re 7acht, down the Clyde, when o. aqdden ft~w. of
wiod oame from a gnp in tho mountains. au~. upaet.t~e .~eA·
o. •izedbyGoogle
ON THE DR.U.l.$.• 279
sf'l in which he wr.F, throwing it on its beam-ends. He and
his companions held on, in the expectation or' assistance;.
but in hnlf nn. hour another flaw came, ond righted the
,-esse). They Wt're nl.l snved, and immediutely soiled to
Belfust to attend a regatta. He snid thnt while in the 'vater,
he was not conRcious of grcut perturbation or excitement ; ·
the blue and seemingly unfathomable Clyde, luy beneath
arid P.round them, smoothly and calmly. On his return,
however, he npplied to Dr. Combe, on account ofa singu•
lnr·mnlndy. Since the accident in the Clyde, he had been
subject to sudden fits of fenr ond npprehen~on-to starting
and. perturbation, without any adeq'uate extemnl cntHe,
which was doubtlet~s n diseased condition af the organ or
Cautiousness. lie was under treatment six or. eight month•
before he got rid of the nffcction.
"It seems," snys David llumc," nn unnccountable plea·
sure 'vhich the spectators of n well-written tragedy receive
from l'orrow, terror, anxiety, and other passions that are in·
themselves disngreeab!e und uneasy. The more they are
touched and nfft!cterl, the more are they delighted with the
spectacle. 1'hc whole art of the poet is employed in rous·
ing nnd supporting the compassion and indignation, the
anxiety and resentment of his nudience. They are plen@ed
in proportion as they ore affected, and never nre so happy
ns when they employ tears, sobs and criell to give vent tb
their sorrow, and relieve their hearts, swollen with the ten·
derest sympathy and compassion." This enigll\n is ex-
plained by the remarks before made on the activity of the
respective faculties, occasioned by the presentation of the
appropriate objt>cts.
All happiness consists in the Agreeable excitement of our
faculties, and activity is the very essence of gratification,
Now on the stage, the words nnd nntural language ofemo.
tion are so u·ell imitated, as to arouse the feelings with much
more energy thnn words nlone could do. In the play or
Pizarro, for instance, when the child is introduced, ita as•
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
-- - ..---------
~. ON THB DRAMA.
pect nnd llituation excite Philoprogenitivencss.; its danger
arous_
es Cautiousness, producing fear for its snfcty. When
Rolin ~aves it, Philoprogenitivcness is delighted nnd Be·
nevolence gratified. Religious people denounce thentres,
but n taste for dramatic representations is fouQded on the
innate fncnlties, and is no less inherent than a taste for
music, sculpture, and paintin~r. If, therefore, the fncultie~t
which produce these tastes have b~en instituted by the Crea·
tor, we mny be nssured thnt the drnma nnd the fine arts
haYe legitill)nte, improving nnd exulting objects, however
much .any of them may have been hitherto abused. Paint.
ing, sculpture and the drnmn, are mere nrts of representa·
tion and expression, which mny be mnde subservient either
to the animnJ Jlroptmsilict~, or to the moral nud intellectunl
powers. In n painting, n stntuc or a piny, mny be repre·
aented either a most lnscivious nnd immoral object, tending
to excite pnssions nlrcndy too stroug, or, on the cc,mtrory,
eomething hnving o tendency to strengthen our moral and
religious emotiontl. Hnppy, indeed, would it be, could we
alwnys employ thc!;c ngcnts to promote goodness. Our
ploys, nt present, nrc mostly ~:~uited to a bnrbnrous nge; but
this needs not be the cnse long. By tnking nway odium
&om the nome of the theatre, and encournging it when
properly conduct<'d, f!l'nius of the highest order would be
directed to it, plnys would be written in nccordnuce with the
highest mornlity; this course nppcnrt~ to me thnt ofwi~dom
and virtue, for the thent.ro will doubtless exist ns long as
mon. Let tu• hope thnt some future Shnkttpcure, ni•lccl by
the truo philosophy of mind, tuul n knowlmlgc of the nntu-
rallaws, according to which good nud evil nrc di11pcuscd in
the world, will yet tench nnd illustrute the philosophy of
humM life with oll the power and efficncy which lofty ge-
Diua cnn impart.
For their nmnsements people seck the ~rntificntiol\ of
their atrongctct feeling.-; heuco from them mny tho chornc•
ter of R people bo inferred. \Vo hovo bct\fd the prnisea of
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
AltltTSE&tENTS INDICATIYE OP CHARACTER. 281
Grcclnn nnd Romun Indies; but when we rend of their
tnking dcli~ht in witnessing the combats of beasts with
ench othc.- nnd with men, nnd in witneulng the fights of
glndintors, often putting up their thumbs as a signal that
the pQnr wretch that had been wounded for their gratifica-
tion, should be killed outright to gratify still fnrther their
savage thirst for blood; we say that the Grecians mny have
enrricll the fine nrts to n wonderful degree ofndv~ncement,
and thnt the Romnns may hnve been grent in mnny things;
but that in mornls they were bnrbnrinns ; encouraging
boastingly what the people of nny modern European
nation would shrink for shnme to be cnught witnet~sing.
Their rl'finement nod morality were merely on the surfi1ce.
As men ndvnnce, they emerge from the propen!lities nod
rise into the activity of the sentiments. A gentlemen told
me thnt he recollected the time when prize fighters used to
go nbout in Englnnd to exhibit themselves for money, iu
single combat; and that on one occnsion, when in a cotree-
house, he sat in the next box to two of thern, whom he over-
heard mnking arrangements for their ensuing exhibition.
They ngrccd to repel and nttnck ench other with seeming
fury for a certnin time, nnd thnt ench nlternntely should
submit to receive n wound in the flesh, not very deep, but
sufficicnt.to draw blood. 1'he boxing mntches which are
still prnctised are similar grntificntions of Combnth·eness
nnd Destructiveness. While the people found plMsure in
such bnrbnrolll' r.xhihitinnl', their general mnnner& were
those of bnrhnrinn!l. Tho criminnl lnw \Vns extremely
bloot1y; in the nrmy nnd nt\\'y, the most cruel punishments
were extensivclj· inflicted ; prisons were dens of h~rror nnd
profligacy ; the pnupcr insnne were trented worse thnn wild
beasts, and duels were of frequent occurrence. .4s th~ ·
·moral l!entiments incret1sed il\ Mtil'ity, these spotts "WN'O
altogetfter or pnrtintly nbolishett', ftnd all the othet hnrb:tn"-
ties diminished. In d1o enstctn. pt\tt (\f thrtr ~om\try the're
appeo.ra to be no nmuscincnt o(this·lltid nlaorttd to thrtlte
2-l•
Digitized by Google
:l82 PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF PURENOLOOT.
purpose of arousing the propen8itics; but I saw an ac-
count the other duy, in cmc of your m~wspupcrs, of n duel
fought at Vicksburgh in the presence of n thousnnd.spcc-
tutorl!l, shots being cxc.lumgcd nt ten in the morning, nnd
nguin nt four iaa the nftern~on~ In Irelund, Currnn once
fought n duel in the presence of ten thousand pcnJllc. 'l'hese
exhibitions con only be relished where the propensities are
nry uctive. I huve been told by the mnnnger of n theatre,
thot when he hnd no stnr who could nttruct n full attend-
ance, he found it most ndvnntogeous to present n bloody
tragedy or n genteel comedy. In the former cn~e the·gnl-
leries would be crowded, though the boxes would be nlmost
empty ; in the Iotter, the boxes would be pretty well_occu·
pied, but the gnlleries nlmost deserted.
I hnve suid thut when nn orgnn is Iorge, its manifestation
is powerful. 1'he eonverz!c is true; when nu orgnn is s_
mnJI,
its mnnifestntion is went\. This obscrvntion is of grcnt
prnetieul vnlue. In n ehiltl~marse, Conscic•ntiou~ness could
not supJtly the plncc of Philoprogcnitivcness; the hatter or-
gnn being smnll, every thing is performed ns n tusk, nnd ·
not with thnt lively emotion of plensure which its large de·
velopmcnt gives. In o sick-nurse, no possible combinutio~
of the other organs eon compensnte for the luck of Bene-
Yolence, which is the fountain of kind nttentions. If one
with Acquisitiveness and the Propensiticil ltuge,•nnd Con·
acientiousness smnll, be plnced in an office o~trust, the al·
most eertnin consequence will be unfnithfulncss. The re-
medy for such cvj)s is to put men into such situntions nlonc,
u thoir orgnnizntion fits them for, nnd to kect) tho num of
atrong propensities nnd deficient mornl sentiments out of
the way of tcmptntion. In this country, ns elsewhere, it is
Deceuary to entrust postmasters, clerks, nnd others, with
large aums of money. Now, if Acquisitivencsl!l, Secretive-
Dell, and the other propensities be lnrge, and Conseien·
doDIDelt deficient, unfaithfulness will be ·the most probnble
MUI&. A priYate b_anker in England told me that be neYer
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
INFLUENCE OF EX~MPI.II: AND TR.\INtNO. 283
employs n cll'rk without first nt~ccrtnining thnt his Cont~ci­
cntimtsncss nnd mornI ~cntimentt~ prcdominntc O\'l'r the pro-
penl'llticP ; nnd thnt fnr the tc~n ycnrs ho lanP Jlrnctist•d thi!l,
he hclitiVl'S he hn~ uot lost n fr1rthing. I bnvc followed the
~.unc rult•, with ~imilnr succt·~s.
Tu present to the 1110ral flt!lltimeuts their npproprintc cx-
citin!l object:~, ~>hunlcl be the fir:~t ~rrt•nt nim of educntion.
'l'his is the only true modo to mnke children net well ; pre-
cepts mny do something, but they nre feeble, i-ndeed, com-
pared with .example. Would you hnve your child benevo-
lent, en~nge it enrly in nets of kindne~fl, nnd be yourself
kind. \Vould you excite its veneration, you nm:~t your-
selves he respt!ctful i11 your demeanor, trent nil with due
cont~iderntion, and he nttentive to the duties of religion. · I
saw n bcnutiful exnmple of npproprinte trnining in llhila-
dclphin. A little rn~gcd negro girl went to a door to beg
food. The sermnt gnthcrcd some together, nnd did not
present it herself, hut cnllcd n little chiltl, nnd penuiued it
to do so. In pc1rforming thi~ net of churity, its countc-
nnncc benmctl with joy nnd goodnett!!. As I looked upon
tl1c scene, it struclt me thnt this would hn,·c more efft.'Ct in ·
trnining that child to the prnctice of benevolence, thnn teo
lectures on the subject.
The Propensities nnd Sentiments lmve no memory. It
is imposiblc to excite or rccnll directly, by no net of the
will, the feelings or emotions produced by them. For in·
stnnce, t~uppose you were insulted lnst Jnnunry, and thnt
this nroused pnssion in you: The intellect rccollectt' the
insult, nnd tlll\t you were enrngetl ; but you aro not nble to
cnll up the rnge nnow, or to cause the propensities to take
on precisely tho snme condition which they did at tho time
the ioault waa otf~red.
o,9,•izec by Coogle
284 · PERCEPTI.O.N.-CO.NCEPTIO.N.
MOllE~ oP .,CTIVITY OP THE KNOWING AND RBI'LEOTING I'A· .
CULTlEI.
Tlae Knortting and Rejkcting Facultie• form ideaa and
perceive relntions ; they constitute will, and minister to the
gratification of the other fncultiet~,which only feel.
The knowing or~nns mny be so deficient as not to per-
teive their appropriate objects ; this hns often been the ense
· ..a regnrds the orgun ofcolour. When a faculty recognizes
an object on presentation, we call this act PERCEPTION ; it
constitutes the lowest degree of activity of the intellectual
faculties. I present this bust ; at' you perceive it, the facul-
ties of Form, Size, Colour and Individuality arc called in-
to activity. The old philosophers treated of perception as
a distinct faculty; but this it obviously is not, inasmuch as
the same individunl thnt ·perceives some things vividly, per-
ceives others fnintly, or not nt qll. We hnve seen that 1\lilne
· has a strong perception of furm, but is almost destitute of
the power of perceiving colours. 1\lr. Ferguson was una-
ble to perceive the perspective of drnwings. I nm unnble
to perform any but the most flimplc cnlcnlntions. Some,
again, cnnnot comprehend rcnt~oning, however clcnrly it
may he stated. I hove seen much distret~s occasioned by
placing pt~rsonll in situations for which their organization
did n~~ ndnpt tht>m. A servant, for instance, who hns Or-
der deficient, is scolded continually, though she evidently
doe1 her best ; but nfter she hns arranged every thing in
auch way ns to· pJense herself, one in whom the organ is
large, will see confusion.
The next dt>gree of activity is CoNCEPTION. I presented
this bust, and a11ked you to exnmine it ; I now put it be-
hind me,' and ask whnt you recollect of lt. ~me ef
you cannot tell any thing about its form and features-
cannot form an idenl image of it ; others can do this. Tho
ealling up in the mind that which ia abtent, it cnlled con-
ception. One in whom locality it tmall can perceive the
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
1:\IAOINATION.
direction ofthings from cnch other, but cnnnot call up thi•
direction when ubscnt; he in whom it is lar"'e cnn sit in hia
. ~
room and recall vividly the variou11 scenes through which
he hns passed. • Some nrc able to perceive melody, but not
to conceive it: they mny enjoy music when they hear it,
hut cannot for their lh·cs, recall notes which lmve ccn~ed to
11trike the enr; c\·ery thing is wil)ed out, ns with n Bponge.
'l'hc snmc is true uf tlw rcfh•ctivc filcuhict~. Some cnn
perceive a chniu of reasoning when prctit'lltl'U to them, nnd
the correctness of the conclusion to which it lea.dt, who are
utterly unnbJe to recall a single link of thnt chain. They
eomplnin of bnd memory; but these very persons moy
hn,·e nn excellent mt:mory for facts and events. Small or·
gans of Cnusnl~ty are the cause of their being unable to
recall n chnin of reasoning.
bumN.\TION is the highest degree of n fnculty's activity.
Suppo$C you henr the notes of a tunc : thnt is perception.
Suppose yuu ure able, when the music is 1
.
1ot sounding in
your ertr!l, to cnll up those notes in your mind ns you henrd
them : thnt is conC(~ption. nut when tho nctivity of Tune
is so great thut it hecolll(lS n wc~l-!!pring of new comhina-
tions-thnt music nri:;c$ in the mind uucnlled for, nnd pours
through nnd haunts it in spite even uf efforts to get rid of
the intruder, this constitutes imnginntion. I mny mention,
as an instance of this spontnneous nctivity, nn nnecdote
of n minister of Scotlund, a friend of Dr. Thomson, who
related to me the circumstance. He got the tunc of l\lng-
gie Lnwder into his bend one Sundny morning, nnd could
in no way get rid of it; at which he was very.unen1.1y, u
be hnd to prcnch n sermon ti1Rt forenoon. At lust he went
to the end of his glebe, n distnnce which secured him
from being heard, nnd sung it out nt the top of his voice
all the excitement nbntcd.
You will flee, according to this, thnt n pcrlM)n mny haYe
grcnt imnginntinn one wny, who hnll extrenwly liu1c in an-
other. If }'orm be very lnrge, he moy luwe ,.i,·itl imogi~
o,J,zedbyGoogle
DREAMING.
ings of objects related to thnt orgnn, and be able to deJine-
.aic them with fidelity ; but if Colouring be qeficient, he
JDRY nt the snme time be a most wretched colourist. Ima·'
ginntion, then, is impassioned conception ;-conception,
.however, in new combinations.
Da~:.umro arises from the involuntary action of some of
the faculties while others ore nsleep. It is a lnw of. the
phytJicnl orgnns, that if they be kept in excessive activity,
- thnt activity ·will not nt once subside ; blood continues to
rush into·them, nnd the nervous excitement to glow. 1.'his
is true of the orgnns of the. brain. Such as have been
OYer-exercised will, nfter the rest have gone to sleep, keep
dreaming and dreaming on the subject .of the day, as
though they could not find repost'. On the other hand,
when not sufficiently exercised, th.e cerebral organs seem
during sleep, to take on spontaneous activity, nnd to dis-
port themselves. Drenm& are generally the result either of
the continued activity· of those orgnns which hove been
over:.excited, or the spontaneous activity of those which
han been unemployed. When the functions hove been
equ,•lly nnd sufficiently exercised, but not over-tn8kcd, un·
disturbed nnd perfect repose is gcncrnlly the result.
Absolute,wukefulnestl is often occasioned by too intense
cerebral activity. This is illustrated by the following in-
cident: 'fhe Rev. Mr. Bedford, of Bath, told me t'mt be·
fore he knew phrenology, it wns his practice.to.set apntt one
day a week in his school, for the recitntion of ull the Greek
grammar which the boys. under his churge hod previously
lenmed, and to stimulnte them to the utmost. The morn-
ing after one recitation-day, he was told that a boy was fe-o
verit~h, and unfit to riae. He went to inquire ·the cause.
"Oh, air," said the boy, "I could not sleep all night for
the Greek grammar." "But why," said 1\Jr.· llcdford,
u did 7~u not blow out the onndle, ·and shut your eyee1"
.. I did, air," said lhe boy, "but for all that, I saw the ·
oouoterpnne and ~ails, and every thing, covered with Greek
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
DRE.UIING.-FOREWAR!IliNG. . 287
grammar all the night." Here you see Language and Fortlll
excited to an extent which should never be allowed in edll-
eation. ·.
1\lr.:G., architect, in :Uath, presented plans for the new
House of Commons as n competitor; 400 apartments need-
ed to be provided for. 'l'he mentallnbour to arrange these
in suitable relations to the windows in the externul eleva-
tions, to convenience within, and to the stairs aud passages,
was immense. On going to bed, he continued to go up
stairs and down stairs, and along passages, and into rooms
innumerable; so thnt his night's fatigue became almost ns
grent as his day's labour.
I find, too, thnt dreams generally result from the activity
of the strongest organs. One in whom Tune is large, will
frequently dream ofhearing music; one in whom it is very
small will never do so ; those in whom Number is large,
will often dream of performing calculations ; in myself it
is deficient, and I never dreamt of any such thing.* Some
believe in dreams as forewaruings, because many things
are dreamed of which seem to prefigure certain actions nf·
terward nchic,·cd or committed. The following is offered
as a conjectural explanation of such coincidences : our
most vivid dreams, most remarkable achievements, and
• 1\fany facts might be adduced in support of the priociple here laid
down. Pitt used to rehearse his speeches during sleep. Coleriqe ill .
sleep composed the brilliant poem commencing
"In Xanadu did Knbl:t Khan,
A stately pleasure dome deeree;
'Vhere Alph, th<- sacred river, ran
Through cavernil mc8llureless to man,
Down to a sunle~ sea."
I know a. gentleman in whom Benevolence, Comparison and Lao-
guage are all large, who lately drenmed of making a speech on the
Emancipation of Slavery in the British dominions. The last sentence
wu a striking exemplification of the combined activity ofthe above faeul~
tiea.-" The rays of British benevolence beamed upon their feuen,tilfl.
tbe7 melted and dropped from their lhnbe."
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MEMORY.
most unfortunnte nbcrrntions, nil nrise~ as a general rule~
from ou.r lnrg('st orgnns. A curious illustration of this
principle occurrctl in n mnn nauncd Scott, a poacher, who
wns ext>cnted nt Jedburgh in 1823. Some years before
tho futal event, be drcnmctl thnt he hnJ committed a
murder; ho WRR grcntly imprcs~~ed with the itlcn, nnd fre~
qucntly spoke of it ns ominous. One dny he met two
Irishmen on the rond ; they were nil n little excited with
whiskey, and n qunrrel ensued, wbieh terminnted in a
fight between him nnd one of them. 1'hcy pnrted, bow·
eYer; but Scott land not proceeded hnlf a mil~, when his pns·
eion ~came ngnin violently excited with the thought thnt he
had not bnd 'satisfactory revenge. Accordingly, he turned
in pursuit of the lrishmnn; cnmc up with him, seized a
etick, struck him fiercely on the head and kille<l him on the
epot. ·In the bend of Scott, the orgnn of Destructiveness
was large, nncl he wus prone to outrngc and violence. ')'his
activity of the orgnn might tnke t,lnce during sleep, inspire
his mind with destru~ti.ve feelings, und the tlrcnm of mur-
der be the consequence. From the greut nnturnl titrcngth
of the propensity, he probably felt, when nwnkc, nn inwnrd
tendency to this crime; joining thi~t nnd the drenm tugeth·
er, we can ensily account for the strong impression left by
the latter on his mind.
MEMmtY~ · Every intdlcetunl ft\culty hns itN own mt·mo·
rj. Suiipose I cull to mind tlmt I snw t\ mnn in Urondwny
yesterday at twelve o'clock: Form, Size, Colour nnd lauli-
Yiduality ore employed in recollecting his person, Locnlity
in recollecting the plnce, nnd Time in recollecting the hour.
The difference between 1\lemory nnd Conception is \'cry
alight; it appears to be this: In remembering thing~, we .
eall up the impressions with n Cflnviction of their previout'
existence, and a reference to the time, place un~ circum·
atoneea or their occurrence ; wberenl!, in Conception, the .
ideu come up without reference to these pnrticulars. · Sup..
pote I recollect a certain piece or mnsic, but not the time/
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
DOUBLE PERSONALIT\".
place ·and circumstances in which I heard it: this is Con·
ccption• . lfl recollect it, and also that I heard it at the
National Theatre, nnd thnt 1\lr. 'Vilson sung it, this is
1\lemory. 'fhc difference in the power of recollecting dif-
ferent properties of hooies, c1nsse~ of phenomena, or facts,
is refcrnhle to the difl'crent relative size and activity of the
\'nriou~ organs; when Colour is lnrge ancl Form small, the
.first will be remembered much more readily and vividly
than the lost.
There nrc some differences in regard to 1\lcmory, which
it is ·difficult to explain. Sir 'Vniter Scott, for instance,
wns r('mnrknble for the retcrrtire11t11 of his memory; whnt
he once learned, he is said never to hove for~ottcn. An
instance of this is mentioned by Lockhnrt: Hogg went
to Sir 'Vnlter one dny, in grcnt trouble conc.-rning a poem
which he hnd lost. Sir Wnltl'r said he thought ll«' coultl
a~sist him ; and thou~h he hnd henrtf it but once, he dicta-
tt>d the po('m, which its nuthor him~clf hntl fnrgotten. Fur
this quality we hm·c no l'Xterunl sign ;. it must, however,
df'JlCIHl on some condition of the brnin.
To rf'cnll imprc!!sion£1, it l!ccms nt>ccssnry thnt the brniu
~hould be in the ~tntc in which it was at the time the im-
pres!!lious were mndc. Dr. Abel of Cork related to me
nn in~trmce nf nn lri~h porter who wns t~~cnt to deliver 1i
poret•l. He got clrnnk, nml tfdi\'cred it at tho wrong plllee,
AJul when 11oher conhlnnt rcnlt'mbcr where ho )uul deliver·
t>d it; hut the 1wxt time he got drunk he remembered, and
went to the plncc and got it bnek.
Doum.E CoNscrouRN~:s!l, ns it is called-but more proper·
ly double prrsmrality or dit,idcd corrsdmt$ncu-thnt is, nu
entire oblit('rntiun of nll the prc,·ionsly nisting idens, and u
commencing to }('orn nnew us n child ; and then nn entire
obliteration of nil the newly ncqnircd knowfcdgl', nnd a rt'·
turn to the previously existing ideas, the nlternntions beiU-fC
more or less numerous, il:l n t)hcnomcnon which we canAot
1et explain. Dr. Dycc reported the occurrence of theM
25
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
200 .
phenomenn in n y,mmg womnn of sixteen years of age. I
llRW a similar- cn3e myself in 1\fny, 1838, at Dirmingham-
thnt of t\ young womnn nlso sixteen ycnrs of nge, who had
been Pimilnrly nffectcd for the three previous yenrs.
I notice, in the next plnce, Juno~IENT. Now on whnt
docs this d-epcn,ft On a fuvournblc development of nil the
faeultic~. When n man possesses 11uch n combination, eneh
faculty throws in its own suggestion, and there is that hnr-
monious bnlnncc of activity by which _
nil the faculties ore
brought to perform. their functions in the best mnnner. If
any one be very smnll, there \Viii be n defect in the judg-
. ment, in regnrd to feelings nnd things to which it is reinted.
If nny be excetnaivcly lnrge there will be exaggerated emo-
tion or perception in tlmt deportment. A mnn in whom
all are favournbly developed, nets under the control of the
n1oral sentiments nnd_intellect, but he hns the wcll-sprin.,r
.of all the fncultics to a proper degree.
Sound judgment is feeling rightly nnd perceiving cor-
rectly. The reflective faculties nrc the judges, but the)·
depend on the other fneultics for correct dntn. Hence n
man mny have R high development of the reflecting orgnns,
and yet in n certnin sense, be n mnn of bnd judgment.
We have nn instance of this in Lord Bncon.
CoMMON Sr.NsE i~t snid to be the rurcst of nil tacnse. Thifl
ie true ; ond the renaon is, thnt for one man who hns n good
balance of the regions, the mornl sentiments prcdominn-
ting, ten hnve a lnrge development of pnrticulnr groups of
organs~ We hnve men of high intcllectunl powert~, who
are lacking in sound judgment : of high genius, who are
practical fools. I have often henrd it discutased in my own
country, and sometimes in this, whether\\'ASIIINOTON WR!-1
really n great man, seeing thnt he did notin nny pnrtieulnr
direction show very extrnordinary power. Now I have long
been accustomed to adduce him ns nn illustrntion of thnt
harmonious de-.elopment which gives sound judgment, sa-
peity, and prneticnl good 'ente. In whnt I now any; 1
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
\V.\SJUNGTO~.--GOOD TAST£. 291 -
• nppenl n<1t to your national pride, as I have said the snme
thing8 in my own country for yeart~. \Vnshington was one
of the greatest men thnt ever Jived. His tcmpernrnent
~eems to hn,·c been snnguinc bilious ; his head large und
\Veil bulnnccd in every pnrt:-thc morul scutimcnts nnd in-
tellect reigning supreme. He hnd u constuncy which no
diOicuhics could overcome, nn honesty of purpo$c and ar-
dour of J•ntrio.tism which no temptation could swen·e nor
opposition subdue. He nlwnys rcgnrded his country be-
tore himself; in him there wns no quality of mind deficient,
no quality in excess ; no fnlsc lights, nnd no deficient lights.
l-Ie therefore gnve to every thing its due weight nnd no more.
lie wns dignified, courteous, nnd just; brnvc, cuutious,
politic, quick to pcrcci\·e, nnd prompt to judge ; always
acting nt the r-
ight time, and in the right manner. Those
who sny thnt Wn::hington wns not n grcnt mnn, can merely
mean that he displayed uo one quality in excess-that he
plnycd off no corruscations ; but he hnd that sterling worth
-tllnt daily beauty in the Jifc-thut force of chnrnctcr-
that grandeur und elevation of the whole mnn, which ren-
der him fur more grcnt and estimable, in my opinion, than
the poet, the pninter, or the orntor.
Goon TAsTE, too, results from equable development. It
is, in filet, sound judgment in matters which do not rise to
the importnncc of mornls. Bad tnste urises from the ex-
cessive mnnifestntion of one or more fnculties. Thus the
scene in Don Juan, in which Junn and his companions nre
represented ns devouring his tutor, is a predominating and
disgusting manifestation of Destructiveness, and is conae-
4JUently execrable in point of taste.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
JOIEPB BVIIE1 M. r.
I
LECTURt XIII.
VARIETIES OJ' DISPOSITIONS AND TALENTS.
'
I Now come to tho exposition of the effects of combina·
tion or grouping; nnd in the first pluce I may observe that
the moral faculties nud intellect nre intended to govern the
propensities. This is .evident from the fact that mon
derives the highest enjoy~ent from this arrangement, and
thnt when the propcnt~ities solicit indulgence ofwhich the
sentiments do not npprove, and we yield to their solicitn·
tions, we feel that we hnve done wrong-thnt we hnve
sinned. 'l'he various talents of men depend on the intel·
lectual faculties; their dispositions on the propensities nnd
mornl sentiments. I shall 6rst trent of VARJETIES oF TAL·
ENTs; nnd in doing so, shall commence with the perceptive
fnculties, and proceed upwnrd.
The talent for observntion and practicnl business depends
on Individuality, Eventuality and Comparison, or the mid-
dle line of theforehead. The head of JosEPn Ilu&1E is
very large, the ~:~entiments being lnrg_e, the propensities con·
siderable, combined with great Firmness and Self-Esteem,
and grent intellectunl development in this region. Wit,
Ideality and Cnutmlity nre nil deficient. The combination
rendered him indomitable-firm as a rock, though sur-
rounded for years by n vast majority ofopponents. lndtJed,
for a longtime, he stood nhnost alone in Parliament in his
. tchemes of fill~ocial reform ; hut his intellect ennhled him
to become so co~pletely master of the financial detail!' of
a great empire, and to expose abuses with such clearness
and force, that though he was outvoted, he shnmed minis·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
DUNN.-ST£VENSON.-8311TH.-JOSEPH. 293
ters from their extrnvngnnce, nnd forced them to economy
and a better financial system. You might, perhaps, from
the power he hns wielded, be led to expect such a bead u
this of Frnnklin; but IIume is no great logician or pr~
found political economist.
In l\lr. Dunn's hend' you see lnrge Individuality, Form,
Size nnd Locnlity ; nod this is the combination for forming
the surveyor. Weight, also, is ncct?ssnry to form the engi-
neer; if Cnlculntion mul Order be nddcd, so much the bet-
ter. In Steven~on, the constructor of rnilronds and loco-
motive engines, you find the above combination without
large reflectiv.e faculties. A gentleman, who hns attended
this clut:s, toltlmc that he sawn man, on one ofthe rnilrouds
of this couutry, with n very lurge development of this re-
gion. lie u~l\cd the hend engineer concerning him, nud
wns told thnt he hnd hecn a common Irish labourer; but
was found ' to have such an t'iye,' as they cnll it, for run-
ning lc,·cls, that he wns tnken from his laborious employ-
ment, and set over the men.
Another combination produces the imturnlist. 'Vhen you
read of Sir James Smith, the botnnist, who possessed such
an extraordinary knowkdge of plants, or rather ofthe form
and nome.nclature of plant~, you might be Jed to expect a
great forehead ; but the phrenologi!lt looks only for the ne-
cessary organs. In him we find only large Individuality,
Form and Language.
Another combination, with n certain addition, constitutes
the artist. You find in this cast the region before mention-
ed large, giving nccurncy of observation. Then you have
large Cont~tructiveness, large Identity, considerable Caus-
ality and Imitation. It is the head of 1\fr. Joseph, and pos-
sesses n combination fitting thnt gcntlemnn for the higher
departments of his nrt. Imitation and Ideality give ex- ·
pression, beauty and finish ; and Causality on insight into
character. \Vithout the operation ofthese faculties, a statue
would be a dead-looking form. Tbia head of Canova ia
~·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CANOTA.-~YDON.-WILIUB.
like tltftt of Mr. Joseph in these .particulars, and, ·looking
at the front, it would seem not .to be very superior ; yet we
find the ~tnmp of superior genius on all CanoYil1S produc-
. tioos. T.h.cre is nn nir of inspirntion thrown over them-a
apcuking nihul benmiug from every production ofthis great
master, which Joseph could not renc.h ; nnd why this t At·
tend to the length ofthe anterior lobe, as made known by the
rule I before gnve you, and the explanntion is obvious ; the
intclleciual organs of the Italian sculptor are much larger
tban Joseph's. It is impossibl9 to see any production of
.Canova's without obse"ing in it a peculiar charm. On
entering the studio of·a young artist, ·in Scotland, my at·
tention was inimedintcly drawn from the works about me
to the cast of an eagle which lny upon the floor, but ~vhich
beamed forth so full of life, expression, and mind, thnt it
spoke out from the dust even, in a way not to be mi$under·
stood. I a~ked the ·nrtist whose beautiful production it was
that seemed ·to he trcuted with such neglect t " Thnt,"
snid he, "is Canovn's engle." This explained nll. You
nenr see such expression except in the works of the high·
est order of genius, accompanied by great size in the or-
. gans as wcll·as a very active tempernment.
· Then we hove Haydon,the historicnl pninter ofEnglnnd,
who bas been engngcd in the highe~t wnlks of hill nrt.
·'.rbcre nre, however, two defects in his orgnnizntion: In·
dividuality and Compurison are both minus ; nnd in his
. paintings there is ndmirable vigour of conception, but he
does not come up to his conceptions; there is u hazines:;,
a want of filling up, of that intelligent, spenking power of
the mind to which I before nlluded. This is the heud of
Sir David Wilkie, who ha~t never nttcmpted as high dcpnrt·
menta of the .art ns Haydon. He hns Jet~s ldenlity, Lut
be bal!l larg~ intellect, including good Individunlity nnd
Enntuality-lle draws his sul>jccts from n great range
or obae"ation, aoo is very successful in giving substance,
·realit7 and finish to his conception-. ·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CUJUU.N.-PITT.-cH.\LM;ERS.-PilANJtt.tN'. 29$
We have here the heads of three orators, nil greatly dis-
tinguished in'their day. Perhaps there is no 'subject on
which men go so much astray as that of oratory ; the re-
quisi\e powers are rated altogether too highly. This is the
m:tsk of Curran. You perceive in it Individuality mode-
rnte ; F.ventunlity nod Comparison lttrge. It is on npt,
rendy head, just fitted for observation, discrimination nnd
illustration. l\lnny are surprised, on rending his speeches,
· how they could be so effective ns they really were. Curran
cnught and expressed the people's feelmgs; he addres:Jed
them ~s they wished to be addressed : and the effect cannot
now be appreciated or put upon pnper. This is the head
of Pitt. ITere we have the same combination, with larger
lndividunlity, great Firmness and Self-Esteem. He had
vast knowledg~ of details, great readiness of speech, and
plausibility of manner; but his Cnusulity is poor, and we
vninly look in his speeches and actions for the recognition
of any great lending principles. J>oJicy, narrow policy
nlone can be detected. This is the lu~nd of Dr. Chalmers,
which os yon perceive is superior to the two last. Caus-
nlity is larger, and he possesses great ldenlily, Comparison,
tmd perceptive organs. He deals with principles ton much
grent•!r extent than Pitt and Curran; but while Reeking
principles, he is not nhvuys so fortunate as to find true
ones, or to be com;istent in their application.
Here we sec n higher order of intellect. The obs~rving
faculties very large, giving great power of mastering de-
tails. The reflecting faculties large, giving astonishing
dr.pth of penetration. There is also large Secretir~ness
and Wit, giving n great tendency to humour and playfulness
of expression. This, then, is a ht!nd in which the ob~er­
-.ing faculties give definiteness of view, nnd the reflective
faculties profundity ns well ns ncutent>ss ofthought; and we
all know that Dr. Franklin hns produced more etl'ect here,
and in Europe, than nny other American. I cannot 'o to
any of your Atl11ntic cities without finding thnt his spirit ia
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
CLASSIFICATION OP HEADS.
abiding with you-that. his wisdom is operating to the
·present hour. His was a mind the emanations of which
will live for ever. Franklin, however, was deficient in one
faculty,_ Eventuality : and ·his Ideality was but moderate.
-He never bad the power of continuous writing or speaking.
He had little brilliancy, fire or readiness; his productiona;
consisted generally of a short essay, containing some pro-
found principle illustrate~ by an anecdote, or a series of pro-
positions and sentiments clinched by Casuality. A speech
from him of ten minutes long was considered unusual.
COMBINATIONS OF THE PROP£N81TI£S AND 8£NTIMENT8.
· Heads may be divided in-
'to three clnsses : ·
1. Such ns hnve the mornl
sentiments and intellect in
preponderance ; as in tltis
1kull of Spurzheim.
2. Such ns hnve tl•e pro-
pensities, mornl sentiments
and intellect, nearly in equi-
librium.
3. Such us have the pro-
pensities in preponderance.
On Jool(ing at this hend, you see lnrge moral sentiments,
large intellectunl fnculties, and full propensities. A person
\Vith such a combinntion hns cournge to meet dnnger, J)e-
etructiveness ennbling him to witnc~s scenes of suffering
without being unnencd, and giving weight to hi~ commnnd
by making the refrnctory feel thnt it is not safe to offtmd .;
Self-Esteem nnd Firmness giving importance, consistency
and perseverance. But, as tho mornl sentiments are very
large; you will never find Combativeness degenerate into a
·~ntenlious, quarrelsome spirit, Destructiveness into cruel-
:t7, Acquiaitiveneal' into an infringement of others' rights,
...
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
PARRY.-DURKE.-R.\MMOH1JN ROY. 297
Self-Esteem into hnughty superciliousness, or Firmness into
way\rard obstinacy. 'l'he intellectual region is lnrge both
in the lower and upper part, gi,·ing the power of mastering
details nnd drawing conclusions. This is one of the high-
est clnss of heads. Put such a on~ in any situation you
please, it should be found to come out honourably nnd re-
putably. This is the bend of Captuin Parry, who was
placed in mnny trying difficulties, and always acquitted
himself in a mastedy manner.
This is the head of Burke; it belongs to the same class,
:md now, when Curran, Sheridan nnd Pitt have sunk
into oblivion, so far as the moral or political influence of
their writings or speeches is concerned, Burke's writings
arc resorted to ns a fountain of political wisdom. 'Ve find
there profound mnxims of policy, government and mornls,
which will cause his nnme to be remembered through nil
time.
On looking nt this, the head of Rnmmohuu Roy, you
tind Amati\'eness, Lo,·e of Approbation, nnd Combati,·e-
ncss lnrge. You find n coronal region of the fir~t class,
except thnt Yenl!rntion and Ilope nrc not so well dc\"cloped
as Benevolence nnd Conscientiousness; you find, too, un in·
tcllcctunl rc~ion of grcnt size, nnd great Firmness and Self.
Esteem. Rnmmohun Roy was n Hindoo of noble family.
His mnnucrs were polite nnd dignified, and towurd the filir
sex he mnnifested unvarying nnd refincll courtesy. Brought
up in the Hiudoo religion, he wns early dissnti$fie!d with its
doctrines nnd observances, nnd drew upon himself the en-
mity of the brnhmins, and tlw opposition of his own fami-
ly, by the boldness \vith which he called in question the va-
lidity of the idolatrous system of the Hindoos, and the
burning of ·widows. Throwing off the supen;titious cret'd
of his fnthcrfl, he studied the Bible, nnd ber.nme convinced
of the truth of the Chrilltinn religion. 'l'hnt he might the
more successfully pursue hi~ stud'i('tl, he learned, almost
without assistance, the Latin, Greek and llebrcw lungua-
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
,.;.
•
REV. DR••\NDREW TllO&J80N. ·
gcz~-pursuing his im·cstigations from one point to onoth·
ur, till he finally ~:~cttlccl <lown into the mornl teachings of
Chri11tinnity, on<l the unity of Go<l. He tried to convert ·
his countryanen, but found them incnpablc altogether of up·
})rcciuting the law of evidence. Did he describe to them
tho miracle~:~ of Christ, they told him of the still greater
n1iracles which their books recorded. Did he tcU them of
mysteries, their .sncred books contained stiJI profounder
mysteries ; but the mornl tcnching.s of Christianity were
incompnrnbly supcriour to those of the Jljndoo books, nnd ·
he d.etcrmincd to draw the attention or his countrymen to
these. Accordingly he collated mu.l clnttsilicd nll the any·
ings of Christ, nud publillhcd them in n book cnlletl the
u l,rcccpts of Jeau11." I hnve rend the wort(, mad amndmi·
rnblc one it is. Now nil this is in exnct uccordunce with his
devclopmen~a. Had ·his Venerntion been ns lnrge ns his
other morul sentiments, I nm of opinion thut he would not
have been able to throw oft· the superstitions in which he
hnd been educated. When studying the Christiun religion,
lao did it with n zcnl nnd ·rescnr~h to be expected from his
Jorge brain nnJ grent intcJlect ; then, in ·cxnct nccordance
with his orgnnizntion, ho settled down into the mornl pre·
ecipts, ns the sum nnd substance of Christinnity.
'flaiR is tho hcnd of tho Rev. Dr. Andrew 'l'hoinson. You
•ce ·R very cousidornhle C()ronnl r«'ginn, with well tlcvclnpetl
propc!nsities; you sec Indivitluulity, l~vt•ntuulity nncl Gmn·
ptirison lurgo, with only moclc.•1·nte Cnusulity. HNo we
should have more ucutencsss, rcndincss nnd power of il·
Justr:ntion, thnn profundity ·or comprchcnsivcnells of intd·
lect; and this wns true Of Dr. Thomson. He Wtti' gcnernl·
Jy on the side of justice and Jibcrulity; he fought mony
bottles for emoncipntion, nnd his lnrge pr~p~nttitics infused
· into his ndvocncy greut power unJ energy. Dut though
ready and clenr, be wus uot profound. He di11likcd, ns he
told me, to open a meeting; be hnrdly knew whnt to say;
but ifbit Combntivonesa nud Deetructivcncsa were orouaod
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
RICIUr.D Dni:"JSI.EY SRF.RIDAN. 299
Ly the ndvocncy of whnt he thought injustice or illibernJity,
he would, in nnswcr, rise to grcnt eloquence•
. 'l'his is the. hcncl of It. n. Shcridnn. You perceive that .
the .propcnt~itics nrc decidedly lnrge, the eorounl region
scarcely more thnn moderate, with n long nnterior lobe, de-
veloped grcntly in the region of ludividunlity, Eventuality,
nnd ~ompnrison,. but modcrnte in the region of Causality,
nnd full in the region of ".it. And what wns his chnrnc-
tcr 1 He wns profligntc, reckless, nnd showed no sense
ofjustice. His pnssions were strong, hitt unture vindic-
tive. In his youth he timght one of the most brntnl dncl~
on record. llh; Sdf-l~stccm mul propcnt~itics ht'in~ lnrgt.·,
anll lun-ing gr<'nt dt•pth in the middle region ot' the anteri-
or Johc, whntcn~r it.lcn:l lu.• hnd, he p1·omulgated with grcnt
'h·il1ness and force. · n~ possessed great powcr~t ofdl•scrip-
tion nnd illu:Otrntion, mndc exciting speeches, wrote spark-
ling plays, nnd wns notccl tin· ~hnrp sn~·ing~. He soon rosu
to distinction, nncl wa~ put into n situntiun with n ~ood
snlnry. His chnrnctcr ut this time stood high ; hut on lo~in~t
his situnrion from .n chnngc of 1\linitttry, his rccklcs:t rx-
tmvngnncc ran him into llcbt ; he followed nny uc,·ice to
get money ; he swindled trndc~men-hc swintlletl hi~
friends, till s~nrccly n friend rcmnint'd nttnchcll to hitu.
George IV. Jm" hcen hlnmctl tilr dt'l(<'rting S'u~ritlnn; but
Monro hns clenrly pru\'l'<l thnt no mnn conlcl bo the friencl
of Sht•ridnn without con~«'nting to ht! hill tlupe. Slwriclnn
is celchrntctl for witty ~n~·in~!l; but ~loorc hns shown that
, mnny of thcst• snying~ were not hi!! own ; he \l!lt'd to kN'l'
I whnt might bo cnllcd n tlny-hool\ nncl lt•dgt•r, in whi(·h Iat•
\ entcn~d any good ohsrrvntion or rrtort which h«' hcnrd, nud
· repented it, in n somt•what nlter<•ct t(mn, the fir:tt nppropri·
nte opportunity which oflt.•rl'd. lln wntt, in filet, n ~rt•nt · ·
repository of other men's wit, nnd nd,trd much of his own.·
In his piny of 'The School fur Scnndnl,' the dinlogu~
abounds in wit ; but this did not nri~c from the fcnour of
composition ; his witticisms nmt jclkl•tt were tn1ll'ct~d fron~ ·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
. 300 ROBERT BURNS.
tim, to time, nnd noted on the mnrgin, till he hnd an oppor-
tunity of weaving them into the text. This piny is brilliant
und witty, but it uppenrs to me disgustingly immoral. Di-
rectly after 'the pence of Amiens, on going to the House
of Commons, he overtook n country gentleman ofhis nc-
qunintnnce, und asked him his opinion of the peace t
"\Vhy," said he," I say as every body else: it is o. pence
of .which England mo.y be glnd, but of which nobody can
bo proud." When he arrived at tho House, the pence wus
.under discussion. Sheridan got up, " Mr. Spenker," snid
he, " this pence mny be characterized in a single sentence :
It is one of which· England may be glnJ, but of which
. ·nobody co.n be proud." The effect wns electric; it ex-
pressed fO happily the general opinion, thnt it went through
the country, nnd wns lauded for its profundity nnd di!lcrim-
inntion. Richard llrinsll'y She,.ridnn wns a mnn of grent
brilliancy, little depth,and less morality·; of strong pn~sions
and great seHh•hncf's ; nnd nfter a cnreer of extcn!livc no-
toriety, he ended n shipwreelt ; there being nothing in hi~t
lVritings which will bear his nnme with honour to future
ogct~.
llere is·the bend of the Scottish poet Burns. This east
I know to be authentic; it being pret~ented to me by hi.-
wifc's executors, who took a mould of his skull nt the time
she wns interred. Now, you perceive in this head large
Amativeness, very large Philoprogenitiveness, large Adhe·
siveness, .very· lnrge Combativeness nnd Destructiveness,
nnd lnrgo Alimentiveness. Pat~sing to the coronal region,
we find thnt to be largely dcvclopc.l; lnrgo Benevolence,
large Imitation, large Ideality, considernble Wonder, and
Firmness o.nd Conscientiousness full, being somewhnt lellt'
than the preceding. His anterior lobe you perceive to lum~
been long, his temperament was one giving great energy
and endurnnee-the bilious nervous. No one ever drew
.the charncte~ of Burne more faithfully than he himself, in
· that patb,tio eft"ueion ·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
. :I , ~ ·; . I •
1\0BERT BURNS.
THE BARD'S EPITAPH.
"L there ll whim-inspired fool,
Owre fast for thought, owre hot for rule,
.Owre blate to seek, owre proud to moo),
Let him draw near;
And owre this grMSyheap •ing dool.
.And drnp a tear.
·Ia there a bnrd of rustic song,
\Vha, notelcss, steals the crowd amoq
That weekly this area tl1rong,
· Ob, pass not by!
But, with a frater feeling 1trong,
Here heave a ligb.
Ia there a man.
, whose judgment clear,
Can otlters teach the coune to 1teer,
Yet runs himself, life's mad career,
\Vild aa the wa,·e,
llere pawe, and, through the atartiug tenr ·
Survey this grave.
The poor inhabitant below
Was quick to learn, and wise to know,
And keenly felt the friendly ~rlow
And softer ftnme;
But thoughtless folli~a lnid him low,
And stained his name.
Reader ! attend: whether thy soul
Soars fancy's flights beyond tlte pole,
Or darkling grubs this earthly hole
In low pursuit,
Know, prudent. cautions self-control
Is wisdom's root."
-301
'-
His head cannot better be.described than hy these .stan~
zas. Here ·we have his.lnrge propensities, "·O'Vre.faat Cor
thought, owre hot for rule," running "-lifers mad .cnreer
wild as the wave;" his ·large Love .of.Approbntion .and
Self-Esteem," owre blate (too mode$t) to seek, owre,proud
to anool ;" tbe large domestic faculties, which "•ke.enly.felt
26
· o, •izedbyGoogle
. •
. ROBERT BURNS.
the friendly glow and softer ftnme.'' We have his Iorge in-
tellectuaf and moral faculties, which "cnn others teach the
course to st~r,"-" quick to learn and wise to know."
His Beoevolence·is manifested in the warning contained in
his concluding stanzt\: " Know, prudent, cautious self-
control is wisdom's root." He in this line indicates, too,
his consciousness ·of timt deficie.ncy of Firmness which his
skull indicates. It is much to be regretted that his circum-
stances were what they were. · That they were no be.tter, is
felt by us to be a disgrace to Scotland. No situation, indeed,
. could be mor~ unfortunately selected for him than that of
an exciseman. lJe had to visit distilleries and breweries,
to follow smugglers through the wilder parts of the coun-
try, being thus exposed to aiJ the temptations of boon com-
panionship, spirits, nod irregular hours. Had he been fa-
vourably situated, there was an inherent morality in hi~
mental constitution which would probably have saved him
from aberrations, and rendered his reputation far other
thnn it is. And never'let it he forgotten that Robert Burns,
with a salary of seventy pounds n yenr, harassed and strait-
ened as he was, and· wild as he is said to have been, died,
after three rponths' sickness, as his widow herself told me,
without being in debt a single farthing. There is no hend
in our whole collection more touching and interesting than
this of Burn11,who won by the henuty of his poetry nod the
independence of his character, an imperishable nnme.
We have here n head in which the pr.opensitiea nre lnrgc,
but still the moral sentiments are considerable, and there is
a fair intellect. The phrenologist would say at once that
the conduct of the individual would depend much on ex-
.temal circumstances. If yon apply stimulus to the pro-
··penaities, he would probably yield to evil influences; if to
·.the moral sentiments, you would form a virtuou~ nnd useful
1man. Like a balance hung i~ the centre, yQu mny turn him
i either way with little trouble. A man possessing such nn I
· organization ·cannot, therefore, be depended ·on, except 1
o, •izedbyGoogle
HAXWELL.-HARE.-IRISBHEN.-NEW~1..£ALANDEILS. 303
where you · can answer for the external circumstances.
T!~e man's name w.as l\Iaxwell; in enrly life he was a bail-
itTor civil officer in the town of Ayr in Scotland, and du-
ring the time he held office his chur~cter was exemplary.
He afterward became a soldier, and 'vhile under military
discipline his conduct was irreproachable. After Jeo,·ing the
army, and becoming entirely free fro~!\ control, he com-
menced weaving for a living; but fi.ncling· it very difficult
to get employment and support his family, be threw up lai~
business and joined a band of robbers, of which he be-
come chief; be was finally arrested, and hanged. Hi~ con-
duct when in prison was becoming ; nothing seemed to
surprise him so much as the difference between his condt,ct
in the former and latter part of his life. "0h, sir," said
he " how little con we kuow of futurity ! When I was in
the office of the magistrate of Ayr, I no more thought of
comin~ to this cad, than of becoming King of England."
'l'b::a we have heads such as this of Hare, belonging t<•
the thir4 cln~s~ 'l'he moral region is extremely sha Uow,
the intellect weak, and the propensitieiJ very large. In such
a head tbe balance is cast entirely in favour of the propeu·
sitics.
NATIONAL SKULLS.
Ireland is inhabited by various rnces of men. To the
North, they arc much like the lowland Scotch, a mixture
of the German, Saxon and Gallic races; but in the South
the Celtic race prevails. They have great Comb<;itil·cucss,
and an acute intellect ; but the moral Eentim~nts ur.:
not so large ; indeed, they will need training for ccnturic~
before they can equal the Saxon race. I ha\;c before re·
marked that size, other things being equal, is a measure of
power. Nothing is more striking thnu this, iu an cxnmina·
tion ofnationaJ sllulls. Here is the skull of a Netrr-Zea-
kmdtr, a fair specimen of the race. You see that it is
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
304 CRINEBE.-BURMEBE.~HUGS.-NBG~OU.
much larger than tl•e Hindoo ~eod. There is, you per·
, eeive IRrge Combutiveness and Destructiveness, a rather
•mo1l.corunnl region, but a well-developed intellect. Now,
while ninety millions of Hindoos ore kept in subjection by
forty thousnnd Eng~ishmen, the comparative handful of
New·Zeolanders hnve uever allowed the Europeans to
overcome them.
This is the-head of a Chinese; here you seo a consider·
nblo intellectual, aod a moderate coronal region. The
head, as you see, is larger tbon the Hihdoo bend. It is re·
markable thnt this people aeom to hove remained stationnry
for two thousand years.
I have noticed the great easo with which the English
keep the Hindoos in subjection. There is one nntion
of India which hns given them much more trouble ; nod,
though they have been able to overcome it, the loss hns been
ten times as great OS when fighting with the former. I refer
to the Burmese; nnd it is well worthy of remn:·!t ; tha: ia
their bends Combativeness and Destructivent!I!S nrc la.-i!·er
tbon in the Hindoos, and the intellect is very fnirly develop·
ed. Here is o skull from Hindostnn differing much froul
that of the ordinary Hindoo. It possesses mnch more Com·
bntiveness and Destructiveness,. with less Benevolence nnd
Con111cientiousnet~s. This is n specimen of the Thugs of
Indio, a race of assassins and robbers, with priests amou~
them, who give them their blessing when they go on tl1cir
expeditions. Their plan is to ingratinto themselves with a
traveller, and accompany him till they arrive ot n conve·
nientspot, nnd then to murder nnd rob, but nhvuys to mur·
· der him. The British hove lt\tcly tnken up the mntter.
T~ey ha~ged twenty-seven or them on one mornin~; and
have gone ·on exterminating them with• tmch energy, thnt
the practice is now pretty much ahnndoned.
The Negro !&tad is one of exceeding interetit. Of the
Negroes there are many vnrietiefll. The t~kuH which l hold ·
i~ my hand ia small, the intellectunl nnd m.orul fueohies
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
NORTH A.IIIERICAN INDIANS. 305
·being little devclopt:d. Orthis form, however, I have seen
very few. 1'he one which I now·exhibit may be consider-
ed as a fair sample of the generality of Negro t~kullzJ•. It
is much longer, you perceive than it is brand ; Combative-
ness and Det~tructiveness nrc large but not predotuinnnt.
The coronal region is well developed ; Veneration is the
the largest organ, Benevolence the next, and Conscien-
tiousness the next. There is n very fair intcllectunl re-
gion. ' Here is another. This was presented to me by Dr.
Gibson of Philadelphia. 1'here is the snme general devel-
opment, but Veneration is only moderate; this, howe,·er, i~
not generally the case. When I went to Washington. I
paid grent attention to this subject, nnd can state, as the re·
suit of careful und extensive observation, that this better
form of head is by far the most prevalent, in lll!Ch of the
few stntes ns I have visited. I made another observation
of very great interf'st, namely: thftt tl1e' Negroes of tl'c
f'rec States have, for the most )lart, better organi~ed benda,
that those in the few of the Slnve States which I have seen;
those of Philadelphia, for instance, nre superior to those
of \Vn!lhingtnn. The cause of this, observation docs not
enable me to assign. It may arise from the former havit)~
descended from a superior stock; but it most probably
arises from their freedom hnving brought the moral and in-
tellectunl faculties into more acth·c employment, wh~ch has
produced n gradual improvement of the o·rgnns.
' 'Vhcn we compare the heads of the Negroes \Vitb those
of the North American Indians, we .find a key to their re·
spective conditions. The Jndian hnA more Delltrnctive·
ness, less Cautiousness, less Benevolence, and abont the
snmc Veneration. His intellect is not so good, but his Self.
Esteem nnd firmness larger; and it appears to me that he
bas retained his freedom by being the proud, indomitnble,
and destructive Savage which such R combination indi·
cates. He has disputed every inch ..of ground; he ~ns
fought the European ; has laid in wait for him ; has haras-
26•
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
;3.~ MORAL BESPONSIDJLJTY.-WILL
~ sed nnd ~tlnin. him. Had the Negroes possessed~ similar or-
ganization, to mnke useful slaves of them would have been
impossible; but they are of a superior, of a gentler nature;
both the intdlectual and.moral faculties are.of a higher or-
der. They are able to appreciate the superior moral and
intellectual powers of the European race, and ore content
in some measure to Jive· under their guidance. 1'be Indian,
on the contrary, has refused to profit, to any great extent,
by.the arL-t or literature of the European, and has always
preferred death to servitude.
There .are, how~ver, great difFerences between Indian
heads. This is a skull from Dr. Morton's collection, of a
decidedly superior capncity ; aud the tribe of which it is a
·sample.were, I nm told, 1uost formidable enemies. In these,
also, Self-Esteem, and Firmness ore very large. Dr. :Mor-
ton of Philadelphia, lms upwnrds of two hundred heads of
North American Indians, which I examined. I cnn there-
fore speuk deciclt!dly on the differences which exist; but
still the most genernl form is that which I hnve described.
There is n nation of Indians called Flut Heads, from a
custom which is prl·vulcnt nanoug them of compressing
their heatls in infnucy. I snw one of them to-dny. Their
s~ulls show n.miserublc development of the upper region
of tho forehead, hut with filir obscn·iu~ organs in the
1oWllr ridge. Secrctivenc~s, Acquisitivcuct~s and Love
of Approbation ore very large. It ·iat not yet dctcrminttd
whether the bruin il4 l•rcvtmtcll from growing, or Cl\U~cd to
grow in 11 different <lircelion ; the ln<linn whom 1 convc•·~ed
with scemt<l as intcJJigcnt as othersof the snmc class whose
heada have not been thu11 compressed. It \Vould be well
.if tho brain could bo examined, to nsccrtnin the structure
of the nrious convolutions.
MORAL REI!IPONRinlr.ITY.
1 aball now consider the question of 1\lornl ret~pon~ibility~
Will, we regard u constituted by the intelloctunl fnoulties.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MORA.L RESPONSIBILITY. 307
It. i.J very often confounded with the manifestation of the
otfective faculties-that desire which overcomes the others.
receiving this appellation. Firmness gives determination,
aud this is frequently cnllcd \Yill: it would be just na pro-
. per to sny thnt an nss or n mule manifests \Viii strongly
when it refuses to move, placing its fore feet forward nod
its hind feet baelnvnrd in the attitude of perfect stubborn-
ness; whereas it merely manifests Firmness in the highest
degree. 'Vill is that mental operation which appreciates
the desires and c.hoosel! among them. Suppose I feel very
indignant on account of an injury received, and a strong
desire to wreak vengeunce ; but I t~ee the consequence and
recognise the superiority of the moral sentiments. 'I'he in-·
tellect says, "Do not strike"-and the hand is powerless;
for hy an admirable provision the nerves of motion are un-
der the control of the iutcllecttial organs; these being con-
nected, nl:l before explained, with the anterior or motory
tract of the spinal marrow. 'Yill, then, is proportionate
to the intellect. An idiot has no Will. Such a man as
Napoleon hus a tremendous 'Viii, nnd i~ nble to subject the
\Vill of others to his own.
I b:n·e called your uttention to three great classes, into
which men may be grouped according to their organiztl·
tiou. These three cln~scs arc di~tinctly recognized in the
New 'l'estnmcut. '"e fiml in the thirteenth chapter of
l\lntthcw, the pnrnblt} ofthe sowcr who went forth to sow:
mul ' some sct!ll tell upon stony plncl'S wlwrc thl'Y luul not
much carth,'-nwml Slmtimcut nud intcllcchml fncultics
\'cry smnll,-' nnd because they hnd no rot,t they withered
nwny,'-such hcnds ns this of 1\lnc Iuni~, the murderer-
' Some fell umong thorns, tmd the thorns sprang up und .
choked thcm,'-considernblo mornl dc,·clopmcut, but hugo
propensities, ns in the slmll of 1\lnxwcll. Wo nrc not told
thnt thcro was deficient l'luil, ns in the former case, but that
though the seed wns producti1'e, the thorns sprnng .\Ill
nnd destroyed the proJucc. 'But othcra fc:U upon tc~
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MORAL RESPONSIBILITY.
ground, nnd brought forth fruit, some n hundred fold, aome
..eixty fold, some thirty fold.' Here we bnve moral region
prcdOlninnting over the propensities, the good ground obvi-
ously referring to good mornl nnd intellcctunl faculties.
And mnrk, we nrc not told thnt the quantity of produce was
the tmme in nil cnses, but that some brought forth a laun-
drul foltl, some sixty fold, some tkirty fold.
The some differences are recognized in the scriptures
with regard to talents, in the twenty-6ftb chnpter of :Mat·
thew; "For the kingdom of heaven is ns n man travelling
into.n fhr country, who coiled his own servants nncl deliv-
ered unto them hi• goods; nod unto one he gnvc five tnl·
ents, to another trco, and to another one-to every man nc·
eording to his sevc!rnl ability. After n long time the lord
of those scrvnnts cometh nncl reckoncth with them. And
eo he thnt htul received five tnlcntfl cumc nnd brou~ht other
five tnlcnts, snying, I.ord, thou delivercdut unto me five
talents; beholtl, I hove gninetl besides them fi\·e tnlcnts
more. His lord snid unto him, Well done, thou good nod
fi1ithful servnnt; thon hnst been frlithful over n few things,
I will mnke thee ruler over mnny things ; ·enter thou into
tho joy of thy lord. lie nlt~o thnt luul rcccivt•tl two tulcnt!l,
came, 1\nd snitl, Lord, thou dcliverccl!lt unto me two tnltmts;
behold, I hnve gnined tw~t other tnlcnts besides them ;"-
mnrk thnt he receives precisdy the flnmn nnswer Rll lw
who hnd gttincd five tnlcntl4: " His lord flnf1l unto him,
Well done, goml ntul fr•ithful 1111rvnnt; thou hn!lt bt1cn
fi•ithrul over n fow thin~"' I will mnktl tlll'o rult•r U\'l' r mn·
ny thing"; ent«·r thou ititn tho joy nr thy lord." When ho
who hnd rcct~ivcd but oaul tnlt1
nt tutitl tlmt he hncl hid it iu
tho enrth instcnd of using it to the hnst of hi11 nhility, " hi!'
lord o~swercd and snid unto him thou wicked nnd t~lothful
ae"ant.'' We find it here clenrly iucul_
cntcd tlult men arc
answerable only for the talents which are committed to
their charge. Occasionally we meet with a human being
·who boa no* eyen one talent. ·· ·
o, •izedbyGoogle
MORAL RESPONSIBILITY. 309
This )ends me to remark, thnt the nwnrd is not nccordiug
to tho nmo.unt of the result, but uccording to the propor-
tion between the result nnd ubility. In short, where much
is given, much is required, nnd where little is given, little ia
required. It follows, of course, thnt persons of the first
·class of organization nrc subject to the highest responsibili-
ty, d10se of the second class to less, nod those of the third
class to the lcn£1t of nll : innt~much ns in the first the moral
facultits predominate ; in the second the propen£1ities nre
so lnr~-c ns to impel them continually .to thnt coul'tlc which
they know to he wrong; in the third tho Jtropcn£1itics so
decidedly predominate, thnt, if nllowcd to go loo£~e in !IOcie-
ty, they will as ccrtninly go wrong ns that the sun will rise.
Undcr these circumstances, whnt nrc wo to mnke of the
responsibility of mnn to mnn t-for I ttpcnk not of tho re-
sponsibility of mnn to God : thnt is n subject which I think
better )eft to the thcologinns. So tilr us we nrc concerned,
we should nil do better by being cnrefu) to mnkc our own
conduct nccord with the divine precepts, thnn by busying
ourselves nbout the judgment God will pnss upon our neigh-
bours.
In men of tho fir~t clnt~s of hcndt~, rcspontlihility is com-
plete ; they nrc without the ~hndow nf t\D excuse for doing
wrong; nnd, on lool~iug through society, we find that men
of this clnss of mindt~, hold tho !Hih$tnntinl power ntul wcnlth
of n country: tht'y cnn:~tituto tho jut1gcl', tho rulcl"l', the
Jcntling men. Now itnppt•nrM tn lnt'1 thnt these imlivitlunlt
luwc not, gent-rnlly Mpt•nltin~, nuy nt1l'tlllllto notion of their
grcnt rcspomihility. 'l'h,•ir tluty it it~ to lctul the otlwrs iuto
the right pnth, to set tht•m n worthy cxnmplo, to pro\·ido
· them with npproprintc lilcilitics of educntion, to plnce- be-
fore them every inducement to virtu<', nnd rcmo,·o from
them, ns fur as pos$iblc, evt'r>• nllurcmcnt to ,·ice. By thesu
means would the character of the second cJnss be ele,·ated,
their propensities repressed, nut1 the higlwr sentime-nts
brought into combined nnd energetic hnbits of neth·ity.
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
310 IIO&AL &ESPONIIBILITY.
We·now come to the third class,. in which the intellect
aud moral sentiments are so small, and the propensities so
large, .that their tendency is almost irresistibly toward evil.
The,y Ct'nstitute not one thousandth, perhaps not a two·
thousandth pnrt of the community ; but, from the fearful
predominance of their animnl feelings, they are capable of
immense mischief. I soy, unhcsitotingly, that these should
be physicolly restrained. They should be considered u!l
morally insane, treated as mornl pntients, nnd not allowed
. to run at large in o state of society in which intoxicating
liquors are eneily procured, in which property is exposed
to their. depredations, and life to their furious passion!!. It
is nonsense to soy that they hnve their constitutional rights
and should be allowed to go free; they hove no more right
to go free than mod dogs. 'Vhen n cow is nddicted to
violence a board is put upon ita honls to give warning of
danger. Phrenology recognizes men before they hnve com·
aDitted their depredations nod their murders, ns certniuly ns
the cow. is recognized by the bonrd. When phrenology
shall obtain due considcrntion, such men will not be flent for
three months or six monthtJ to the prison, nnd then let loose
to rush anew into crime, and commit fresh depredations
and outrages upon society; but be kept under restraint un·
til their characters shall be changed by training, or if not
changed, they will be kept under restraint for life-with ns
mnny virtuous gratifications ns their condition will permit.
Benevolence would acknowledge such a procedure to be
kind ; Veneration, to be respectful ; nnd Con!lcientious-
nell, to be just both to themselvt>s nnd to society. 'l'hc
idcn of inflicting so much punishment fc,r !luch an amount
of crime hns now been given up in theory by nil enlighten·
ed men, but practically it is still ndhcred to. Our duty i!l
to withdraw external temptntion, nnd .to supply by physicnl
reatraint, when 1u:ceasnry, the ddiciency of intcrnnl moral
control. When it cornea to the reckoning, and tho ques·
tiou il put to the first cla11! l'f mru. " Whnt hnvc you done
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
-
· ·)IORAL RESPONSIBILITY. 311
to put away temptation from your \veaker brethren, to eJe-
\·ate their chnructer, to prevent then1 from evil," it wiJI
:~urcly uot be n sntisfuctory reply to sny; ~' We mnde Ja•·s
prohibiting them from crime, nnd punishing them for its
commis::ion ; we imprisoned them when they committed
~mnJier offence$, and hanged them for enormities." No :
!luch mcu nrc morally blind, nnd it is not for you to wrenk
vengeance upon them for their misfortune,.but to keep them
out of harm's way-not to immure them in prisons fM
punishment, but to place them in asylums for safety and
recovery•
.'
.. ··· I .
• .. , ' ' ' L
.! ~ . .
o,,,,,zedbyGoogle
81~ euu.u. n&W or TU MDY
,
LECTURE XIV.
• PHYSICAL EDUC.\TION•
TatE subject of physical education is exceedingly exten·
siYe, and I hnvc not time to entt'r into it with minuteness
ofdetail. 1\ly intention this enning it', to bring before my
non-medical henrers such an account of the human frame,
as will ennble them to appreciate the influence of physical
condition on the mind.
You see here the human skeleton ; this represents the
bones, which form the support to the soft parts, and afford
protection to mnny important organs. Attached to the
bones are the muscles, which ore fleshy bundles or cords,
by the contractions of which the erect attitude is preserved
and motion prod11ced. This drawing represents the brain .
and spinal mnrro\v, from which.nerves proceed nod ramify,
the brnin being contained in the skull, aud the spinnl mar-
row in the bnck bone. Nerves proceed from the circum·
fercnce of the body to these ports, conveying sensation;
from them to nil ports ofthe body, producing motion. The
skin covers the body, and serves to alJow an extensive ex·
pension of the nerves of sensation, which renders us sen·
eible to heat, cold, pain, and other feelings from external
causes. There are, also, innumerable little holes in it
· through which the waste matter of the body escapes by per·
. spiration. ·
AU parts .of the body are in a continual state of decoy,
which occasions, ofcounre, the necessity of renovation, for
it~lea of the body are continually pR18ing a\Yo)', oth·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
REALTR.-DJSBA8£o 313
era must he continually supplied. Now this new matter is
supplied by the blood, a fluid which circulates through
every part, and from which are deposited, in a way of
\vhich we have no conception, particles of just the kind
necessary to the respective parts requiring them ; to muscle
it supplies n~uscle, to bone it supplies hone, to nene it
supplies nerve, and to brain it supplies brain. Health is
the sound condition, coniplete and equal· play, of all the
vnrious systems of the body. It is attended by n feeling
of satisfaction which seems diffused throughout every P.llrt•.
A friend of mine truly and beautifully 11nid, " I never think
my~elf in health except I can go out, of n summ~r's morn-
ing, and standing upright, with my eyes fixed on ~pace,
ond my mind unoccupied, feel that life itself is a blessing,
and thank God thnt I am a living man." Diseose is the
unsound state or di$cordnnt play of any of these systemt~,
and may be either structurul or functionn1. If nn arrow
should be shot into the eye, the consequent disease would
be structural. Functional disease is that in which derange·
ment of structure is not visible, but in which the function
is performed too feebly or with morbid energy. Suppose
we look at the sun for u while: the function of the eye is
disord~red ; if we turn the eye from it to some other object,
we may still a1>penr to see the sun where there is in fact
nothing but a wull. This is functional disease ; und, gen-
erally speaking, repose alone is sufficient to restore healthy
action, when over-exertion ha~ cea~ed.
Health heing the foundation of All happiness, its preser-
.vntion is of the utmost importance; and to presene it, we
must know those lnws QU the observance of which it
depends. So far ns the lower nnimnls nre concerned, these
nre ob~ervcd instinctively. !\lusculnr exercise is secured
by the enjoyment which is evidently attached to it; thus
you see the horse, in a rich pasture, galloping and gam·
bolling. In many onimals it is secured by its nece11sity in
obtaining (ood. Pure air they have from living in the open
27
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
314 COMI'A~ATI'fB MORTAtl'l'Y Of CHILDREN AND ANIMALS.
air. Clconlinest~, they nil attend to, rmd thus keep their
pores open ; you sec the cnt assiduously cleaning herself-
the birtl1.11 clcnn!ling their feathers by the streum ; even the
pig forms no exception'; I hove been told by Dlllny furmers,
tlmt when allowed strnw, it nhVftys kept its l!ty clean nntl
comfortublc. Animals observe these lows without· knowing
why; they oro impcllci to do 1:10 by tho CrentQr~ O}lerntin~
through their constitution. 'l'o mnn is given reuson-thc
power of observation and nduptntion. llo must study his
own constitution nnd thnt of the external world, nnd oh-
serve the relntionl!hip which God. hus established bctwcel\
them, in order thnt he mny know the luws of health, nnd
conform tO them. 'J.'hnt there is grcnt OCCI\Sion for such
knowledge nnd 1111ch ohscrvnnce, is evident from the records
of·mortnlity. According to the Wcstmin11tcr returns, from
ono-timrth to onc-finh of oU thnt nrc born there, dio hcfor•~
arriving nt two yenrs of ngc. I om told thnt tho mortnHty
is still grcr\ter lu•rc. Now, of such mortnlity, tlmre is 1111
exftm\llc in the nninllll kingdom ; ond for this no otlu~r
ren!On cun he nddnced, thnn tlmt by mnn the lnws of henlth
are -neglected or ·outrngcd, while by the brntes they ore
instinctively observed. How grent nn amount of humntf
miecty t\naes from this premature mortality !-llnrdly one
of these children dies without lneernting a mother's nfth~·
tiona nnd blasting a father's hopes. ·
The food which we e~t has to undergo a vnriety of pro·
(:eeses bcforo it cnn be ttl!similated to the body, o.r ba mndt·
to form a part of its substance. In the first place it is token
into the mouth, where it is ground by the teeth, or mosti·
cated ; during this proeess it is mixed with the snlivo, after
which it is swallowed, pnt~sing from the mouth through"
tube into the stomnch. This last orgnn lies in the upper
part Of the abdomen, as you see in this drawing, it is shaped
Jike a bagpipe, and hns two orifices ; by one it receives
the meat coming through the food pipe to the stomach,
aad by the other, called the pylorus, the food pa~se11
o; tized 'YGoogle
PROCESS OF NUTRITION. 315
into the inte8tine, enllcd the duo<leuunh 'l'hc stomach is
amply supplied with blood-vessels nnd nerv<'s, the Jntt<'r
being more numerous hero dum in nny other pnrt of the
body, nnd derived from mnny different sources; for which
renson it sympnthizeswith tllmost every other part, nud
mny bo considered ns n kind of common orgnnic centre.
Tho food undergoes· in the stomnch such n }lroccss ns
chnngcs it to n greyish fluid cnllecl chyme, which, wbcn
properly digested, presents itself nt the lower extremity of
the stomnch, nnd pnsses through the pylorus into the duo.
denum. But.mnrk this, around the pyloric orifice the('c is
n bnnd of museulnr fibre~, which, when ·coutrnetctl, keep
it elosctl, nnd which hnve to re1ux in order thnt the chyme
mny pnss through. Now if tho food which prcs~nts itt'clf
is not propcl'ly tligcsted, these circu1nr tlhrt'S will not relax,
but tltt! food is l'l'llt bnck to Ul' digested still more ; it mny
n~nin nud agnin be prct~cntcd, nnd ngnin nud ngllin acnt
buck; but ns thill, if carried too flu, might cnuso serious
injury, tho film~a nt ll·ngth ~h·c wuy, nnll tho undigcl;ted
fi•od is nllowcd to }H\Ss. ""hen the chyme bas nrrived at
the duodenum, it is mixed with two fluids: one from the
liver culled bile, the other from the pnncrens called panere·
otic juice; nn<l is turned by their action into a milk-white
fluid cnllcd chyle. The intestines, like the etomoch, have
tlareo conts ; but tho inner or mucous coot is in fold$, to
give n grcnter extent of surfnce. On this nn innumerable
qunntity of amnii vessels open their mouths, nnd drnw in
thnt pnrt of the footl which is fitted to nourish the body; .
thcfle nrc cnllctl lactenls. They terminute in one common·
tube, culled the thorncic duct, which pnsses up the poste-
rior port of the chest, nnd empties its contents into o vessel
enlled the snbclnvinn vein. 'l'he fresh nourishing mntter
thus carried with the blood to the heart, is JCnt to the lunga
to be subjected to the vivifying influence of the air.
Fluids taken into the stomach do not go through the
anme process, but nre nbsorbed nnd tnken immediately.into
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
316 .IMPORTANCE OF r.norr.R POOD AND ·"n•
the blood, whence they soon renJlpcnr in tho kitlm,ylf, nnd
arc thrown out of the body.
I lately. Yisitod tho Coloured A!'ylum in thid city, which
is, in mnny FC8pects1 R crcclitnbJo in~titntiou, llllU thCI'O be-
CRIUO ncquninted with n fnct which wdl ilht:;tmtt·~ thc im-
portnnco of diet in the training of child1·cn. Acting under
the influence of some tcncthcr who hn~ lwcu lecturing in
thie city, tho mnnngers of tho institution hnd c.uulinctl the
chiltJrcn to an exclusively vogctnblc diet, with the CXJ,cCtl\~
tion of improYing their rnornls. Now chil•ll'cn should linvc
diet-not ilXccs~ivc, but sufficient, solid nntlnutrition:-~. It" · .
you give nn exclusively vegetnblo diet, you du, iudl!cd, ren-
der tho blood less nutritive nnd stin1ulnnt, nml thus wcukcn
the propensities ; but, ns the 11nme blood nomishcs nh:o the
mornI sentiments nnd intellcctunl faculties, ·they nre wcnk·
ened in proportion, nnd the tone of the whole body low·
t•red;. 80 that nothing is gained it) point of mornlity, nnd
much is lo11t in hcnlth nnd vigour. '!'his wus ;;oon di:;cnv·
ered. · In the Asylum the effect of this exc)u:,h·oly Vt'gt·ta·
ble diet manifested itself by means of scrofuln anti genernl
debility. It was lnid nsidc, and under the it)flucucc of u
1norc generous diet, the children soon began to recover. ·
An ndcqunte supply of good and sufficient food is abso-
lutely neees~ary to health.
Another essential condition to health is, that the lungs
be alwnya supplied with fresh air. These are two bodies,
one on cnch side o,f the thorax, composed oC a light spongy
substnnce, nnd filled with innumerable air cells, which nre
amid to present .nn extent of surface equal to twenty thou-
snnd squnre inches. The henrt throws the blood into the
lunge, nnd, when we brenthe, the air passes into them ; so
that the blood is on one side of the thin membrane of which
the cells are composed, and the nir on the other. Through
tlris membrane the changes which occur in the blood take
place. ·'fhe common air consists of three distinct gases in
combination, in one hundred pnrta of which aeventy-seyen
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
OXYOF.NATION OF Tit£ DLOOD. 317
aro nitrogen, twenty-two oxygen, nnu onu cnrhonic uchl
gas. Now, the brcnth expired is t(nuul to ditler from the
air tnken into the lungs, ntlll the blood sent from tlw lungs
i~t found to ditrcr mntcrinlly from tlw blood which wns seht
to them. Of the nir, the oxygl'U is tliminis)u·t.l, 1\1\tl tho
enrbonic neid inerenscd ; oxygen is thcrd'nrc consitlcrcd us
the supporter of life. The bluml which nrrin•$ nt tho
lungs is of n dnrk purple hue, nml is unfit to touptmrt life ;
thnt which pn11ses fa·om them i11 of n bright ttcnrh.•t hue, und
is fitted fi•r tho bolly'll 1umri~hment. 'l'ho usc uf nitrogcll
is uot known..; but Sir Humphrey Duvy found thnt on
brcnthing eighteen inches of common nir, fi\·c of nitrogen.
disnppcnred. Dr. -, of llm:ton, suggests tiU\t it combines
with chyle, nud impnrts to it its rctlnppcnrnncc. "'hen we
nnnlyze the body, we find in it n consitleroblc qunutity of
uzotc ; nnd in this wny docs he suppose it to get into tho
system. 'fhis theory necd~t confinnntion, but is very plnutti·
ble.• If the nir be not pure,the venous dnrk blood does not
• •rhe lungs are compo!ted of a ,·ery thin membrane, wbieh, for the
purpose of pre!ICnting n l:trge surface in n tmlllll !tpace, is folded in the
form of cclht; these do not commuuic:lte one with another, but witb d&e
minute t\vig of the windpipe which leads into each.
The exceedingly minute blood-vessels of the lungsare contained with-
in the rnembrnuon>~ wall:~ of the air cells, through whicJt the followinc
changes are produced:
1. 111.1M air. The air contains more carbonic acid and water, and
less oxygen, after re11pirntion than before, the amount of c:\fbon gai.Decl
being somowhat less than that of oxygen lo:~L Sir Humphrey Davy
etateslhat the quantity of oitrogen isdiminished ; Dulongand Berthollet,
that it i:~ iucrensed. Dr. EJwnrdtt has reconciled theee ditcrepnnciea
by showing that nitrogen is both ab:~orbcd nnd exhaled, and that some-
times absorption preponderates, sometimes exhalation.
2. In the blood. The blood is cban~ted from a dark red to a bright
sc.ulot hue. Its temperature is increased, according to Dr. J. Davy,
ono, or one and a half degrees. Tbe amount of carbonic acid is climiA-
ed, of oxy~en augmented. ·
.Somo u~o~.\· find it difficult to conceive bow such exteDIIive cbangee
ean be prou.1.;ed through the walls of the cella and ve~~eb; I therefore
·remark that the anitual tissues are full of invisible poree, to the 8Wdi
27•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
318 THI: CIRCULATION.
undergo the necessary change, but is sent b:1ck, of a dark
bue, to all ports-and, of course, to the bruin, which,
tberefore, is not sufficiently nourished nnd stiwulntcd; great
dulness and drO\nineaiS:ensue, foltowct.l, if continued, by
diseased action. To otTord sufficient quantity of fresh air
in churches, schools, and lecture rooms, is, tbercft,rc, very
desirable. If they are not well ventilated, the brain is op-
pressed, and cannot, ofcourse, oct \Yith clearness and ener·
gy. Dr. Reid, who was employed to ventilate the bous.es
of Parliament, con~tidered it necessary to supply ten cubic
feet of air a minute for each p.erson they were adapted tO·
accommodate. This air is seot in of proper temperature.
The effect of bad air we see this evening. This hall is
crowded to excees, and there are no adequate menus of ven·
tilation ; hence the faintness which a number have been
subject to ; two or three ladies have had to be led out.•
We have done much to reform matters in our o\vn country.
though we have had on nrduous task. There is still much
to be done, however; and you have much to do in this
country, in your public holts and schools.
eontainecl in whicb, the 101\neu of animal matter ia attributable. ·
Through thete porea, pt~ea readily permeate, aa the following facti
prove• .
1.. If two gatoes be placed in contact with the opposite surface of a
moilt bladder, each gas will paas through the bladder till both are equaJ.
!y m~ed.
2. If a bladder containing liquid, be placed in a gas, the gas will
pnu through the bladder and bee9me abeorbed by the liquid, whereas,
none of the liquid will escape.
Hence it is obvioua that gaseous matters mfty become dissolved in the
blood which eireuJatea through the lungs, by penncating the invisible
porca Of lbe nir eelJs and minute V81iiela, llOtWitbstanding that nO open·
inp exiat Jorge enough to give exit to the blood itaelf.
•Thia wuapoken in Clinton HaJJ. Dnring l\lr. Combe'• eto1, the
Di.reeton or the Institution. with a promptitude which did them great
~t, opened two aperture. for ventilation and produced a great im-
provement OD the air or the room. Mr. c. made atillstroncer objeo-
tion• to the Leeton Room at 8to1veaant Institute.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
•FFECTS OP NERVOUS CONCKNT&ATIO~. 319
Wbat we cull the heart, muy, iu fi.act, be considered as
t\\ o he:uts ; a right and " left ; by the right beaut the blood
is sor.t to the lungs, by the left to tho nrtcrie$. llut ench
ofthese consists-oftwo muscular bag:;; nnd the circulation
of the blood may be thus cxpluined: 'fhe heart laas two
vitul properties, irritnbili!.r, and coutrnctility ; by the aint
of wlaich the lrtimulut~ of the hluod is perccin:d, and by the
seeond of which the muscular fibres of the heart shorten
themselves, or in other words, contrnct and close tlae cn\"i-
ty. The venous ordnrk blood is poured into the fiNt sac oC
the right heart, called the nuriclc; this, when filled, doses
like a sensitive plnnt, and forces the blood into the right NC,
called the ventricle; the ventricle then contrncts, nnd forces
the blood through tubes into the lungs. llere the blood is
vivified, and rushes to the auricle, or firt~t cavity of the left
benrt, which contracts and force!' it into the !lecond c:\\"ity~
or the left ventride : this contmcts, ond filrces it into the
great cnunl for the couvcyaucc of arterial blood, wheuce it
is distributed to nil parts of the body, supplying nouri~h­
ment. It returns through other tubet~ called veins, .ia re-
ceived into the right n•..ricle, and passes through the same
route ns before. The body contains, it is supposed,. from
twenty-five to twcnty·cight pounds of blood, nnd that two
ounces pnss through the heart nt every bent ; according to
which, all the blood must pass through the heart every three
minutes.
'l'he brniu is that orgnn \vhich supplies ne"ous euerg,
or spirits, ns we say, to all parts of the body ; thus, if the
nerve which communicntes with the stomach be divided, di-
gestion is nt once arrested. Now, if by any means we eon-
tinuou::~ly concentrate the whole nen·ous energy to any
particular part, the oth<'r parts necessarily sutTer. Thus, if.
by the occurrence of !'ome gr<'nt cnlamity, thought nnd feel-
ing be k•·pt in long-continued nnd inordinate nctivity, the
digestive nnd rc:o~pirutory functions nre ill performed, the
blood is deteriorated, nnd the body wastes and aioka with
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
320 D'PBCTB OP NERVOUS CONCENTRATION.
rapidity. So if the mu&lculnr system be inordinately enr-
. cUed, the nervous energy seems to be exhausted upon it ;
and, ifafter such exercise, we attempt to rend or think, the
brain is indisposed to activity, and we fall asleep. 'Vith·
out exercise, wa~te matter is not thrown oft" from the body
in a proper manner, and the blood does not circulate with
due force ; but if carried to excess, it interferes with our
power of thinking and feeling with vigour and continuity•
.ICthe brain be employed too energetically, then is there
a eeDJe o( discomfort and anxiety ; we are, perhaps, trou·
bled with headache and indigestion, th«.> stomach loses its.
tone, the mind itself becomes affected, and the whole syr.·
tem diseased. I have often met with Americans seeking
health in Europe; und have generally found that, led on by
the spirit of competition, their brains have been kept con-
tinually burning with excitement, till their bodies have be-
come diseased, their nervous system has lost its energy, and
Death seemed to be tapping them on the shoulder; they
have then been forced to give up business entirely, and. try
the effects of n voyage and continental trnveJs. Here the
nenous system, though gently excited by new objects, is
allowed comparative repose ; the exercise is gentle but
not too great ; being much in the open air, the blood
is well oxygenated ; and not being pressed for time, diges-
tion is allowed to go on in a proper manner. In short,
health is broken by violating the lnws on which it depends,
and restored by their observance.
I apeak the more- earnestly, becnuse I speak from sad ex-
perience. When young, I lmrdly knew that I bad a brain
or a nomnc:h-mueh letts the Jaws which govern their modes
of activity ; and for three or four years used to study from
· 1ix in the morning till ten at night. But I denrlypaid for
my imprudence-! greatly impaired my digestin func-
tions, weakened my nervous system, suffered great misery,
ond became almott incapable of thought. I am no\v giv-
. ing JOU information which, it I bad poue~aed at fifteen
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
EFFECTS OF COMPRESSION. 321
year111 of nge, and attended to, would have saved much suf-
fering nnd feebleness during seven ycnrs ofthe best part of
my life, for which nothing could ever compensate.
Allow me now to address some remarks to the ladies es-
pecinlly; nnd in doing so, we will make the skeleton the
first object of contemplation. The bones ore formed by
depositing bony matter in curtilnginous substance. In in-
fancy comparatively soft, they go on hnrdeniug to old nge.
By dillregarding their tlexiule nature in early life, much
deformity is occasioned. Ladies wish to see their children
wnlk enrly, they put them to the feet before the bones are
sufficiently strong; in this wny the legs nrc often distorted.
Or they put leading strings around them to keep them up,
and thus the ribs ore pressed upon and deformed; pressure
is produced too, upon the stomach, liver, lungs, nnd other
viscera, occasioning sad coi1sequences. Nature is in all
these things the sure guide. · 'V11en the child feels the· ne-
cessity for muscular exercise, it attempts to crawl nbout on
nil fours, and delights to tumble nbounhe floor; this is the
best form of exercise in the particular circum:~tnnccs; it
strengthens the little muscles of the child, which begins in
n while to raise itself_ by the chairs, and finally to walk.
"\II this is uutuml and safe; which the system of urging
aud dangling is not.*
I hnvc before stated that in the human skin there nrc in-
numerable pores, from which wnste matter is continually
pn:~!:ling. Cleanliness is, therefore, 1motber essential requi-
• The anthor or the "llistoire NatnrcUe et 1\lornJe des Ilea Antilles,"
published at Rotterdam, 16:->8, remarks that Charib mothers allow their
inranl.:l to tumble nbout 011 bcrls orcotton or dried leaves, without either
bamlngo or swaddling clothes ; and th:tt " Jltrtrthdcu, tAty dD NOt b.
tome bformul, b11tgrouJ marr:ello!lslg rrell, and I'I'Wsf ofiMm 6«o11U 60 ro6uc
lAat they can ttlllk u:lu11siz mo11tlls old." And all of them are straight &Dd
well made ' TJ · 1 .
I • us tc sc~ms to ha\·e cousadered n trnly m:t.rf"elloua reo
1111 t d .
. • • on ll never once occurred to hill simple and ciciliud undentaad-
tug, that the sav~ · 1. . .
tho i . ugcll were Ill t 118 re«pert rcnpmg the rewud offuUillint
utcmtaons of nature.-Ed. Phren. Journ.
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
322" BPI'ECTS O.F COLD AND COMPREIS.ION.
. .
tite in the treatment of children ; but, ns young chlldren
are susceptible to ntmospheric changes, you must be care-
ful not to expose them too much. I am told that in this
country it.is not usual to protect the bends of children, and
that some physicians recommend thi~:~ neglect; I cannot
but consider this injurious. The temperature in this cli-
mate ranges in a very short spnce of time over an extent
of forty degrees :-other parts of the body nre protected,
and why is the head exposed to such vicissitudesl The
brain is a very important organ. In infancy the skull is
"f~ry thin, and there is very little hair. Some protection,
therefore, seems necessary, though to .stimulate the brain
by too ·much clotJting is injurious. Cnptnin Parry relates
thaton one very cold day, he sent two young gentlemen in
search of a marine, who had been exposed to a tempera-
ture much below zero, without . nny ndequnte protection;
and thnt so grent was the effect, even upon them, that when
he sent for them into his cabin on their return, they looked
wild, spoke thickly and indistinctly, and it was impossible to
draw from them n rational answer to n~ty of his questions.
After being on bonrd for n short time the mental fnculties
appeared gradually to return with the returning circulation, ·
an.d it was not till then, that n looker on could be cosily
pcrs.unded, thnt they hnd not been drinking too freely.
One great evil.to which the fnir sex is liuble is deformity
of tho spine. The spine or bnck bone is supported by mn-
ny muscles which keep it erect, as n mast is kept erect by
dte ropes. If thelle muscles be compressed they become
Weakened; if mnde to S
.llpport the body for n )ong time in
an erect, stiff position, they become exhausted ; if this is
persisted in, the spine gives way ; but ns there is a natural
tendency to equilibrium, the curve of one part is compen·
sated by a curve in another, nod thus, in such deformity,
there is generally o double lnternl cu"e• somewhat like the
italic letter f.
When I was· 7oung, the remedy for this was to use a
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
ON THE CURE OF DEFORMITY.
steel support. 'Vhat would you think of me if I recom-
mended, in order to strengthen the arm, that you should
bind it in splints, and keep it pcrft!ctly s~ill for three mouhs.
You would see the nlmmJity nt once, nod yet, the using
of n steel support to the spine for the purpose of strength·
ening it, was just as absurd. 'l'he only rntionul mode of
strengthening the muscles is by exercise. When I Wf'S
.lecturing upon this subject some years ngo in Edinburgh, n
Indy was present, who, on goiug home, noticed that her
daughter, a young lady of nine years of age, h~d slight de-
formity of the spine. She became alarmed, and was Jed
to think of the best course to be pursued under the circum-
stances; seeing her daughter next morning attempt to lift
some earth with the gardener's spade, she thought that thnt
would be just th.e thing to encourage her in. Accordingly
she asked her if she would like to have a little spade of her
own. Oh yes, was the reply; slu~ would like it very
much. She was then nsked if t~he would like a little
wheelbarrow to wheel earth from one part of the garden to
another ; she wns perfectly delighted with the iden. They
were procured, she wn~ directed how to usc them, and cau-
tioned never to continue their use ufter she felt fatigue
coming on. The young Indy shoveled and wheeled in the
open air dny nfter day ; the whole muscular system was
exercised, but particularly the muscles of the baclt. ·In
three or four months the curvature was completely renioY·
ed, nnu she resumed thnt form of elegnnce for which shl'
is still distinguished. She is now grown up, and has told
me thnt she looks back to the time she spent in digging and
wheeling, us among the happiest of her life.
The next point to which I would draw the attention of
the ladies is, the importance of free action in the lungs.
This subject is nearly threadbare, but still it is necessary
to return to it. Whenever yon see the breast tint, and lit·
tle !lpace in the chest, it shows tbnt the lungs are amnii, ud
that tlte blood cannot be properly nerated. This difticulty,
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
•
ON TIGIIT LACING.
it is obvious, would bo incrcusctl by comt•rcssing the chc~t
or by inho,ling bod air; yet, uotwithstnruling that n 11mall
che11t is incompntiblo with vigorous lwnlth, \Vo find ladic11
doing nll they can to comprcs11 their chests into the lea!lt
possible dimensions,- having some how or other acquired till'
extraordinary notion thnt n nnrrow, spider waist is benuti-
. ful. It is prohnblo thnt the notion originated from the cir·
cumstnnce of some persons of high rnnl~ being dcformc,J
by noture rendering deformity fnshionnhle, In the olcl
country this fashion is filst going out, et~pccinlly among tlw
l1ighcr clnseJ. A Indy who should now enter n drawing·
room in London, Edinburgh or Dublin with her waist com·
pressed in the woy which n short time ngo wns prevalent,
'vould be 1.1ct down Rll unfashionable and vulgnr, tho Ppcc·
totorR would whisper "there goes an uneducated woman."
I am sorry to see, as I do in walking llrondwny, thnt
among your lndil~l.l the $pider-wnist is in grent esteem, nnd
tight-lncing prevalent. I would respectfully observe that by
this distortion they assume that they have more lmowledgc,
Judgment nnd tnsto thnn the Creator himself. These very
ladies pity the savages, who seek to improve the form of
the skull by compressing it. They see that this proces:;
renders the " human form divine" truly hideous. They
Iough at the Chinese women, who attempt to omend God'11
handiwork, by compressing their feet till they render them
unfit to RUP\lOrt them. But by n blindness of perception,
which would 'be incredible, if we did not witness it, ~bey
perform' the very snmu operntion on their own wnisttt, nnd
1op tho sonrcee of health nnd lifo-surely God did not
mnkc their wnist liO imperfectly, ns to need their nssistnncl'
to improve it. . By this practice, the heart, lungs, stomnch,
liver nnd other vit~cern ore compressed to n most injurious
extent, being cooped up so ns hnrdly to be nble to perfonu
their function8; the circulntion too, is interfered with, nnd·
a large extent of exhnling surfnce. Yet, with all these
pains, they only render themaelYe• pitiable spectacles to a11
o; tized 'YGoogle
ON TilE STUDY o•• TilE •'INE ARTS. 325
who possclls correct·tut~tc. Not 11uch ft,rm¥ tlo the pnantcno
aud sculptors take ns tho· models or bcnuty.•
Thut form is best in which the bruin, chettt, ubdumeu
nntllimbs nrc nil in due proportion. Wht•n nny ot' thc~t·
· prcpouderute grcntly in ~i7.c, bcuuty sutlers : tlmtt, if tht·
abdomen is much lurgcr thun the rest of the body, we hnve
n figure like n hog stnnding on its hind legs. 'l'hc Crentor
has implnnted in our minds n Jove of the benutifu) fur et
wise purpose; for it is found that beauty of torm nud per-
fection of healthy structure and nction arc most intimately
connected. A femnlc figure of the fiucst proportion for
symmetry nnd benuty is, ccrtcrispfrribus, the most tiwour-
nbly constructed for healthy action. If the curri~\ge of tht•
body bo erect, nnd the motions ensy null gmccful, these tue-
indicntions tlmt the bone:~ nrc solid mul the muscles eucr·
getic-thnt the blood is wc:ll nourisht·d tUHl well oxygen·
ated, and that it circulutcs freely. If the couutcnanct:
beams with intelligence mul goodne!s, this is nu iudicatiota
thut the morul nml iutcllcctunl regions of the brain pr~·
dominnte ; and tho iudividunl in birth nnd constitution h:
one of nntu~c's nobility.
I deem the study of the fine nrts important. He whh
consider11 the beautiful humun form as addressed to
Amativeness alone, or chidly, takes t\ most degrading view
of it. It is addressed to Ideality, which contetuplntes ir
• I knew a young female of some di~tinctiou, ns l'el'pccts both her
mind nntl fiunily, in the city of New-York, who, some years •<o, be.
came known from tight-co~eting, by the name of tho "Indy with the
small wai11t !" Notwith:ttnnding her goo!IIWU!IO in other thing., this ex.
cited her ambition to renlll~r herself tllillmoro worthy of the title, and to
prevent, if po~iblc, in others nil competition for it. She therefore in·
cre~d tho tightne!IS of her co~dll, until she bec:une hutnp-41houldered,
and died of con!lnmption. Nor did nny one doubt that her corsets were
the cause. She wa11 mnrricd, nud left an infant aon, who, from the alen-
derne• of his frame nnd the delicacy of hia couatitntion, ia threateaed
with his mother's complaint. He inherits her coraet«okftl conatitutiou.
Caldwell on Phy,.icnl t:dncation. p. 110.
. ~. ' I
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
328 oa llfOaDDIATB •EKT.U. ACTIYI1'1'.
with keen delight; to Venerntioo, u the ch~f of the Cre·
ator'• physical works; and to Intellect it ~in•s the highe~t
~Niure. Viewed in this light, I ~t'c not only no immocl·
etty, bnt the grentc!'t propriety in lmlics Thciting gnllerie~
of the fine nrts. Xo better ~~ehool enn be selected for tht'
mother, whn, being thus mooe familiar with the most per·
feet and benutiful crentiou of the pninter nnd t~eulptor.
would ~rry in her mind a~tnndortls which would enable her
readily to detect deformity in her children, and lend her tu
teek timely remedial means; nnd I nm ditapo!K'd to think,
that if ladies were instructed in their youth in the uses .of
the humnn fmme, nnd taught to nppreciate the conditions
aod proportions of the different orgnns thnl ore most fn·
youmble to heruth and beauty, they would, "·hen they were
mothers, become fnr sooner aware of disorders in their chil-
dren, than they nnw are, and would ~.ave the Iins of many
of them. Dr. John Bell, of Philadelphia, hns published
an excc:llent little book on this subject, called " lleahh nnd
Beauty;" \Yhich I beg leave respectfully to recommend.
Who, for instance, nfter gazing at this Jlninting of Eve at
the fountnin, could admire the spider-wnists l From being
presented in its proper light, the study of the fin«'! nrts hm:
in the old country become much more geneml. Ladies study
the noturnl figures, and pass round tlae galleries where they
are exhibited, without the slightest feeling of impropriety on
their own part, or that of nny cultivated or correct mind.
I will now address my observations more particularly to
.the gentlemen. · Some haYe received n f.uourably, organi·
zed constitution, the greatest gift that Providence can be-
llOw upon moo. The bead is of proper size, the lungs are
well deYeloped, the digel'tive organs in good order. Per·
10n1 10 blessed are very opt to lnugh nt the cnution of oth·
en,and to keep in n continual blaze of excitement; they
· eat hearty dinnen, rejoice in conviYinl suppers nnd in
'puncl1ad in wine. Warn them · oC tlu~ir danger, they
mock at your feon. But nature. ia keepinr with them a
Dl 'z
edbyGoogle
DIFFERENCE OP TEI\IPER.\1\IENT.
reckoning. 'Vith some she keeps n daily a~count, exact·
ing punishment for every offence ns ttoon as it is commit·
ted ; with some she keeps nn nccount currl'nt, nnd s~~o
doea so with the persons of whom I speak. It n,ny be ycnrs
before she cxncts ptlymcut, but when she dol'S so, she. ex·
nets the utmost farthing. Not one of their nberrntionsbut
is then found to hove been n nnil drh·eu into the coffin.
I cannot tell you how mnny people I hnvc seen st~
in mnnbood with fine, robust constitutions, nnd, nfter the.
vigorous enjoyment of health for yeurs, full into prema-
ture graves·, from nttnclis of npoplexy, pnrnlysis, or some ·
severe form of disease; while those whose weakly cousti·
tutions imposed the necessity of incessant watchfulness,
outlived them.
'!'here is n class of men in whom the brain predomi·
nate~, nnd the lungs and digc~tivc organs ore compnrative·
ly weak, such persons delight in mental activity; musculnr
cxc:rcise is disliked, the bruin is continunlly on the stretch
of <:xcitemcnt. Dut when wo reflect thnt in thinking we
usc the brnin, ju$1t n~ in wnlldng we usc the muscles, nnd
lhnt, in order to keep the brain in neth·ity, nervous energy
must be drawn from the genernl system, all ports of which,
under such circumstances, perform their functions feebly,
the impropriety of this course is evident. The muscles will
be weak nnd uuenergetic, and the stomach will badly per·
form its d~ty.
Two concentrated nctions cannot go on in the system at
the same time : if you digest well you must think badly;
if you think '~ell you must digest bndly. The best plan i1
to spend nn hour or nn hour and n half after each meal in
trifling conversntion. If you tnlk nonsen~e, so much the
better, as thnt needs no nttcntion ; nnd instead of that hour
being counted as lost, it will, I nssuro you, be tbe best spent
:lfthe twenty-four. People sny they cnnnot spend the hour
10 ~uch 1\ wny: business or professional duty or study, re.
quare, their attention. But I answer, that if they go from the
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
:J28 DIFPERENCE OF TEMPER.\MENT.
table to mental o•ocations, attention will be feeble ; every
tl1ing will be performed uncnergctically-whereas if they
nllow the hour for digestion, the· brnin, when they go to
work, will befresh· and vigo.rous, nnd they will do more than
if they had been at work all the time.•
In bilious and ne"ous temperaments the skin is gene-
rally inactive. I hove told you how great a quantity of
matter sh~uld pnss otr by this organ ; its inactivity is there-
fore very detrimental. T~. promote .the secretion of per·
spiration, as well as the other secretionIii, nothing is more
important than exercise, which should be tnken in due
quantity by every one. To keep the skin clean is of prime
importunce, and this tnny he done by sponging or washing
the body daily. Perhaps the best wnsh for this purpose ·is
coanposed of one-third vinegnr, and two-thirds water, or a
mixture of common salt and water. After sponging the skin
it should be well rubbed with a coarse towel or hair glov('.
There nre some men in whom the digestive f'yl'tem prcclo-
minntes : these are what are called easy fellows, jolly com-
panions. They live a very hnppy sort of life, flO long as
thingt~ go on well. They eat and drink heartily, enjoy
pleasant, thoughtle!s 'conversation, and sleep l!lotmdly an·d
long. But but~inet~s is often neglected by them, and their
r.aly, careless habits become a grent source of trouble to
all who may be dependent upon them for support. To
correct this constitutional tendency, let the quantity of food
be diminished; let what is taken, however, be solid and
nutritious, and let plenty of exercise be taken in the open
air: this course will give good stimulating blood, and con-
f'equently incrent~e mental vivacity.
• Among children, barbarians, and all whose braina ue not mneh
onr-ta.sked, a1fectiona or the atomllch ant hardly known. Our native
India~ ~ill eat .an enormen• quantity or foodeven after a loq rut, with
eeem~ng tmpumty•• Tbe Eaquimaux often eat ten or twelve poundloC
animal food and dnnk a gn11o!' or train-oil in a day withoutbeing troub-
led with d,-peplla ln the tlighteat degree; '
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
IMPORTANCE OF VENTILATION. 3:29
The importance,ofpure air is a subject which, untillnte
yenrfl, hardly entered int«? the heart ofmnn,to conceive. In
the Scotc~ churches, for instt}n~c, it is the prncticc to go in
at eleven rcnuiiu till ncar one, amp go ugain at two. Now,
the practice formerly was to eiO"Se the .door ns spou 1.\S the
people came out, in order to keep in the hc~t. They tlms
retained the air., vitiated by being breathed in the morning.
1'be people \Vent home, loaded their stomachs, aud returned
. ..
to church. Here, then, the laws of hculth wert? clcurly \'ioll\·
ted-first, in br,enthing bnd air, and next, by eugagia\g in
serious mentnl occupation with loaded stomachs. 'l'he
consequence was, that nature was too strong for the min-
i~ter, and muny Qf the congregation ~lept. This ann~ycd
him very much, and many is the sermon which 1have heurd
preached against the sin ofsleeping in church•. The con-
sciences of the congregation troubled them a good denl, no
doubt, but there was no reformation. Now the laws of
health nre better understood, the moment the congregation
pass out of the church, the windows are thrown open, even
in the depth of winter, &o as to allow a change of air. In-
stead of eating a hearty dinner, people generally content
themselves with n light lunch, deferring dinner till ufter the
second service. By thus conforming with the laws of health,
the drowsiness of the Scottish congregations, bas passed
away, and with it the occasion for sermons on the sin of
sleepinesS'.
The laws of health, as regards ventilation, w:ere still n1ore
outraged in our schools. In the winter season we were
kept in for hours with the window-s closed tightly; and so
vitiated did the air become, thnt to a stranger entering from
the street it eeemed almost poisonous. In proportion to the
length of time we remained in, the air became vitiated more .
and more, and the blood worse and worse aerated, losing
thus its healthy stimulating propertie!. This rendered. us
dull nod i;~uttentive ; but in proportion as mentnl eoergy
decreased the birching increased, the master attempting to
28•
o;9, ized by Coogle:
830 •JMPORTANCB OP VEN'J;'ILATION.
compensate for the stimulus of good blood by the t::timulus
oC pain. The school wos thus rendered a place of torture
and terror. \Ve have ·reformed matters in our o\vn country
considerably ; but here, on visiting the public schools, I
find you have· much yet to do. You hnve no odequnte
provision for a supply of fresh wnrm air. Recollect the
Rir must be wormed before let into the room. If yon at-
tempt to ventilate by throwing open the windows, you have
·the children near crying out thnt they are catching cold,
and indeed mueh injury must ensue. Should there be now ·
listening to me nny member of the civic corporation, l
· would recommend this subject to his especial nttention.-
Hecould not be more worthily employed than H1 effecting n
reform. I know .it is difficult to effect changes involving ex-
pense. The common cry ofdemagogue, is economy, econo- .
my. They are.for retrenching every thing, and allowing
money for nothing ; hoping thus to gain favour with the
people. Economy ill a very good thing ; no one cnn be a
greater advocnt~ of it than myself; but the economy which
, I recommend would extend to the benlth of the rising gen-
eration, and a small oudny for the attainment of this great
end, would never be regretted by a wise and philanthropic ·
commullity.
We hove effected great changes in Edinburgh in our
publicossembly-rooms &8 well as in our schools and church·
es. All, I believe, nre now properly ventilated, except the
Waterloo roomt~, ond they ore yet a8 close 8S a bottle.-
Seeing the great importance of good air to all, young and
old., healthy and diseased, what would you think were I to
tell you'that a lunatic asylum has been built at on immense
expense, and no provil'ion made for 8 t~upply of fresh air-
the importance of ventilation beingentirely o.verlooked ; yet
such is the case with the new lunatic asylum of this city••
On going through it I pointed out this great oversight. A
gentleman distinguished for hie enlightened interest·in pub-
lie~impmemen~s, auggested that, aa the plaater waa two
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
JEFFREY's RESPIR.\TOR. 331
inches from the wall, a sort offlue might be formed behind
it. But for this fortunate suggestion the means of ventila-
tion would hnve been entirely absent. In mentioning these
things, I am not blaming any one, but merely dnlwing at-
tention to such facts as come under my obsef\·ntion.
I must ask any member of the ch·ic corporation, who
may be here present, whether be bns seen the pauper school
on Long Island t If he has not, I advise him to go und ·
examine the size of the rooms-inquire how many children
sleep in each, andwhat means ofventilation exist. Having
done this, Jet him reflect and decide for himself whether the
state of. things in these respects is not the cause of opthal-
mia nod other diseases.•
*l\fr. Combehere recommended to theattention of his audience an ia-
tlrument invented by 1\lr. Jeffrey, of London, cnllcd the respirator, in-
tended to obviate the irritating effects of cold air upon the lungs io asth-
matic and consumptive patient:~.
The rc11pirator is worn over the mouth, nnd is comtructed on atrietly
ecientifie principles. It consist:t of the instrument proper and its ap-
pendages. Tho instrument is formed of a number of wire· plates or
sieves made somewhat after tho manner of those ofDavy'a wetylamp;
:\nd fixed in a ftexed frame. The breath, in pas!iing through these plates,
yields its calorie to the wires. The calorie is taken up by the cold air
which is drawn through the instrnm~nl during inspiration, and thua
raised from the freezing point to from 60 to 80 degrees, according to the
•Juality of the respirator nsed. The air, too, in its passage in·
ward, partll with the grosser irritating particles which it may contain.
The nppendngesconsist ofa cushion around the frame-work, in which at
the lower part is a sponge to nbsorb whatever moisture may becondented
on nnd ruu down the plates, a silk border which may be drawn more
or leu tightly round the month, and attached to which are cords wl\ich
pnn round the backof the neck and over the head to keep the instrn·
mentfirmly in place.
The re~pirator is recommended by Sir B. Brodie, Sir Anthony Car•
lisle, Sir James Clark, Sir Astley Cooper, Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Conquut,
Dr. Pnris and other eminent medical gentlemen.
Mr. Combe enid that a friend of bis who had for some time coughed
10 much during the night as to be hardly able to sleep, was enabled to
do ao without ditoturbnnee on the first night or wearin& the iultrument,
and until he recovered.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
MR. DOWIE S SIIOES.
Mr. Combe exhibited a ehoe, also, of peculiar conatr,uction, remnrk-
ia~ "I exhibit it for two renaona : first,becauM itia ofa form oonc:lncive
to lieahh aml comfort; and, secondly, because it evinces the adnntagca
of' acientific information in ill application to the arts. 'fhia shoe, yon
obeene, ia very atrong in the aole, and yet perfectly fiexible-~e apace
between the heel and fore part, or that con11tilllting the hollow, being
f'onaed of India rubber. The inventor is a )tr. Dowie, who, while nt-
teadinl a course of Physiological ~cturea in Edinburgh, observed that
\be apring of'the footwuin the instep. He reflected upon the advan-
ta8e itwould be to bave thatpart perfectly free, and the consequence w.aa
\bia invention. He t.eokouta patent tor it, and ahoeaof thiaconatruction
annowbeinctried bya compaay of aoldien, under the inspection of
pnper penona, for the purpose of ascertaining conectly their advan·
..,.. over lbo. ordinarily .-d. I doubt not that thereport will be fi.
YOanble." - , .
,.
! ·I:
..
o, ,.,zedbyGoogle
TRAINING. 333
LECTURE X_V.
TRAINING.
THE proper training ofthe mind means the proper train-
ing of the organs. 'Vithout the brain, the mind cannot net;
without n healthy brain, it cannot oct energetically. The
first element, then, in education, is to hn,·e the brnin in a
~tate of vigorous activity;.nnd, in my lnst lecture, I pointed
nut the intimate dependence of this condition on good and
l'ufficicnt foocl, good air, the proper excretion of waste
lllntter from the body, cleanliness of the skin, nnd on the
quantity of clothing being odequnte to the season, but not
too great. I showed thnt when the food consists of mere
~lops or ve-getable diet, when the nir is vitiated, nnd the
clothing inadequate or excessive, the tone -
of the whole
system is lowrrcd.•
l revert to ''cntilntion for the purpose ofremnrking, that,
in this country, one-fourth of nll who die, die of consump-
tion; nnd, when I see the neglect of ventilation \vhich is
hc1·c so common, I do not wonder nt it. I hn,·e not the
lcust. d•>ul>t, that by proper attention to ventilation and to
the sl(in, thi~ number might be greatly reduced. I state
this from the experience of the best-informed physicians.
The great importance of understanding whetherthe brain
be o single orgnn or n congeries of organs, cannot be too
• Dy education, in the nbstrnct, I mcnn a scheme of 1\Ction or traill-
ing, by which nny form of living mntter mny be impt"oved, and by per-
aevonmcc roared to tho highest perfllction ofwruch it isausceptiblt.-
Ct\ld. Phy1. F.d. p. 6. •
D1
git1
zed by Googfe
334 LABOUR TO BE PROPOJ\TIONED TO STRENGTH.
clearly set forth. Ifthe mind be a single orgnu, then tuen-
tnl exercise, of whatever kind, should be beneficial to its
whole power& If it be a .congeries, we have to nttcnd to
the particular exercise of cock. Suppose a trumpet to be
improvable by practising on it,every note would be improved
by improving the tone ofone ; but if the instrument were
u piano forte, in which each note depends on a sepnrate
chord, it would be nbsurd to hope for the improvement of
all the chords by improving. ~ few merely. Sonte might
produce the correct notes when struck, while others ntigbt
produce nothing but discords ; nod others, being broken,
might emit no sound at all.
From the fact of the brain being tbe orgnu of mind,
Rowe many important results ; one of \vhich is, that being
wenk and immature in childhood, like the legs and arms,
it cannot bear much exercitte; thnt it strengthens with nge,
nnd that the exercise or lnbour should be proportioned to
tho strength. You ct\nnot impose exces~ive lnbour on the
hrniu, nny moro thnu on the rt•st of tho body, without tloing
injury. llcnco the grcut fully of thnt constnnt mcnlnl
· npplicntion which it hns been, and still is, to a grcnt degree,
the endenvour of parents and teachers to keep up. ·In Scot;
land, at the public schools, we used to be in attendance
1.1evcn hours n dny-from nine to one, nnd from two to five;
nnd the reamlt was thi~: for nn hour in the morning we were
nblc to attend assiduously to our lessons, but then the brain
bccnrue exhausted, und tho scholurs restless; they were
poking cuch other with their fingers, pinching each other,
Birting pens, untl scrulching the desks. Some becnruo
noiasy, some listlcas ; thou cnmo the birch, for the purpo!e
o( infusing new ethnulu11 into nn exlmusted brain ; tho
scho),,re were r~ntlercc.l miserublo. nuc.l induced to look ou
tho lchool With disgu~t, tho tcnchcr Wl\8 hnrnsscd and dis•
couragcd. Now, when the effect of tbcec things is better
~~d.p,~t~d, mnny of the ecbo~s of Edinburgh have re·
duced the. time of tuition to four hours a day-two hour•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
INFLUENCE OF TE!\tPERAl\lENT. ·~a
at a time ; and it is acknowledged thnt more Greek o\ul
Latin is learned in thnt time, ' thon 'previously in seten
hours ; the -
scholars nttend the school with plt•nsure, :md
the .teacher pusses his time \l"ith sntisfilction._ Nny, one
teacher hns reduced the time of nttcn\litig to Greek nntl
Latin to two hours n·dny, nnd still challenges comp.nrison
with the rest of the ~chools.
1\lr. Fisher, a gentlemnn who takes scholnrs'bf from five
to eight, hns found the greatest ndmntnge in the chnnges
"•hich he bns produced. Instead of keeping them COl\•
stnntly at work, by rewnrds nnd force, for three or four
hours in succession, he tnkcs thi~ plnu: For the first hour
he cnn obtnin their nttention without nny difficulty ; at the
end of that time, he sends them out to run around St. An-
drew's Squnre for a quarter of nn hour. While they are
playing, ho keeps tho windows open, nnd thus ventilntt'~
the room. In this way the children lenrn more, nnd enjo~·
$UCh pleasure, that their pm·t•t\ts complain that they would
rather be at t~chool thnn nt home ; the teacher's tnsk, too,
hus become nn ngreenblc instemt of n painful one. I hove
been to the public schools of this city, and would udvise
you to go nnd judge for yourselves how for the laws of
physiology are observed. The children go in at nine, and
come out at three, having nil tho time but half an hour'a
·intermis:4ion. l\1nturc ns our brnins nre, \VO tnko cnre to
impose less on them thnn on the weak brains orthe young.
If I should lecture to you six hours together, you would
say," God preserve us!"
It is or importnncc, when children nre nt school, tlmt
their po!l1ition should bo onsy. In my own country, chil·
dren hnvo to ·suppol·t thcmst•lves on forms without bnck!l.
Wo luwc produced n reform, however, in n number of
eehools; nntl I nm plcnsctl to scu thnt in your eountryl\o
complnint is neccssnry.
In educating children, it is or the utmost importance to
'take·into consideration the influence of temperament. Ir
o. •izedbyGoogle
836 INPLVBNC& OP TEMPERAMENT.
the nenous temperament predominates, the child ia d-=·
lighted to learn ; he would be continually nt his ·books;
he is intelligent, and ,.bows such uu intensity of feeling
that he twines himself round the affections of his purents,
who are in raptures at his ustouishing progress, and urge
him -on his career, ignorant of the nhnost inevitable result.
The nervous energy being drt\Wn to the brain, the digestive
system sufFers most materially; nnd, while, by this premu·
ture development, he stnnds conspicuously nbovc children
of his own ng~, the blaze.of excitement in which he is kept
by continued thinking and feeling soon undermines hi»
health, and, if not: arrested, throws him into a premature ·
grave. In such cases add not.to, but keep down the ex·
citement. See that such children tnke much exercise in
the open oir, urge them to lay down rather than toke up u ·
book. To do otherwise is to break the lnw of Nature, or
·of Nnture's God ; and long life is promised, not to those
who brenk, but to those who obey his law; and the pro·
mise is fulfilled. Thnt lifo is long nnd happy, which ie
spent in obeying the Jaws which nre made manifest by
observing nnd reasoning upon the )\ature of man and ex·
ternal things.
\Vhen the lungs predominate in o child, nnd the sanguine
tempernment, there is fondness for exercise ; the food i11
heartily eaten, the sleep is sound. Suppose n child of this
temperament to be sent to school nfter a sound sleep and
· comfortable breakfast: for a short time he may be still, but
in n while the ·crnving for muscular exercise will be too
strong; he mny be pent up, but cannot be kept quiet. He
begins to be fidgety ; muy receive blows for it, but still be
fidgets ; the blows mny be repented, but without effect ; be
continues fidgeting, poking with his elbows, throwing pens,
striking his neighbours witb his feet, nnd striving in eYery
way to expend this energy. Such children ore .generally
· anid to be very clover, but to hllve no liking for their books.
1The. u•uol plan hna been to acold such children well ; and,
• o, ·,zedbyGoogle
TRAINING AND lNS'fRUCTINO. 337
if not quieted by this, as is very unlikely, tho scoltling is
followed up by n·flogging, which is gt~nernlly ns inetlica-
cious. Tho object should bo to remove the cnuso of the
evil. Let us attend to Nnturc, give such children nn op-
portunity offirst expending their musculnrenergy, and then
they will be delighted with mental activity. 1\lr. Howe, of
1 Boston, related to me an lll.tecdote which finely illustrutes
this position. lie hnd a boy who was the mo~Jt mischievow;
that he ever met ·with; he broke the benches qnd boxett, .
wren.ched the doors otT their binges, playetl all sorts or
pranks, and could not be controlled. 1\lr. Howe thought
of dismissing him ; but knowing there must be a cause for
this disposition, be reflected upon the subject, and hit upon
an admirable remedy. This wns to send him into the eel-
lnr every morning, to saw and split wood for three hours
together. The boy wns delighted nnd had soon sawn and
11plit nll the wood up ; he was then set to running, leaping,
climbing poles, and di1:1portin~t himself in n variety of woys.
Thus he got rid of his excessive mu1:1cular energy, nnd af-
terward proceeded with hili ~tudicl5 in a proper manner.
'l'he doors and benches being perfectly safe.
Some children are of the lymphatic temperament; these
are slow to lenrn, and indisposed to activity. The reme-
dial plan has been to flog them continually. .-\ much bet-
ter is to study their constitution, and regulate our treatment
accordingly ; to give such children a moderate quantity or
nutricious diet-animal rather than vegetable-let them
hnve plenty of muscular exercise in the open nir. By these
menus you diminish the lymphatic and increase tbe san-
guine and ncr\'ous clements ofthe constitution. I call your
attention particularly to the fnct, that, in all countries, the
u1ethod used to correct defects of organization and tem·
peramcnt hns bef:n to flog nod shame the child thnt needed
improvement ;-one of the most gross instances of the ap-
vlication of brute force for the nccomplishment ofthat iu
wbioh attention to the lnw~ of the constitution cnn alone be
29
o, ,,zedbyGoogle ·
TLURIRO AND IRSTWCTING.
succeaful. · It follow~ from what I have said, tltat uo rule
can be laid down applienble to all cnses. Specific difft:r·
. eoces muat be closely attended to in the business ofeduca-
tion.
We now come to the difference between trai11ing and iR-
$lneetilag. Thii is 'fast. Instruction means communicating
knowledge ; while trninipg implies the repetition of certain
·modes of action in the mind and body, until they become
habits. It i• a law of our constitution, that any organ,
when accustomed to repeat frequently Its action, acquires
additional strength and facility in so doing ; from this ari-
:res the force and advantage of habit. Suppose a lady be
told that, to produce certain notes, she must strike such and
:JUch keys: you might continue the instruction for years
without enabling her to play • tune, if she did not practice
-if her fingers were not trained. So you may instntct a
chitd in the precepts of the New Testament ; but if he be
not trained to religion and morality, if he be not accustom·
ed to practice these precepts, instruction will be of little
use. We must not be content with telling ; we must act,
and induce him to act. Do we wish to make a child kind
and bene'folent, we mu~t be so ourselves. Do we wish ·to
culti'fate its veneration, we must manifest our own by ad-
dre11ing it with kindness, respect and courtesy. In receiv-
ing, the mind is passive ; in training, it is active; and there
i! a nat difference between these two states. \Ve may tnke
' n Yery commo~ ilhastrntion of the effect of training. Sup·
· pose a child to live in a community where Combativeness,
· Destructivenes& and Self-Esteem are particularly active:
·it will be the object of their manifestations. Resentment
· will be excited, and in it the same faculties be roused.
· Hence will result coarse, cold,· harsh and yuJgar manners.
:·On ~he contrary, if a.child be educated in a family where
enry human being is treated with respect-where Benev,
· olen~, Veneration, Conacientiousnesa and Love of Appro..
· bation are all active, wberenr he goea, he will at oDce ~
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
OBIECTS OF TRAINING.
recognized as a well-bred gentleman and practical Chri::;-
tian.
Another object may be to diminish the activity of some
of the .propensities ; as Pride, Acquisitiveness, and Quar-
relsomeness. Now, a very common method is to tell th~
child to do so and so ; and, if it refuse or neglect, to di~;-.
charge upon it a storm of words or blows. The child i~ ·
overcome by superior brute force, but injured in the pro-
cess. Phrenology teaches tbe true plan to be, _
to allay tlu:
excitement of the propensities, and to excite the moral sen-
timents by mildness, but firmness. Force uddrcsscs itself tu
fear alone ; Benevolence, Conscientiousness,Veneration,nrc
not ·at all exercised. FoUow the child into it:J room, and
there see the effect of such discipline. Has it compi.mc-
tious visitings t-is it grieving over its faults. No, it it:
burning with ra~e and the desire of revenge; it longs to b<:
n m:m, that it may escape from what it cousider:J tyrnnny." ·
Pcr.;)le often forget, in the business.ofeducation, the gigantic
power of man's moral nature, before which the propensities
cower and quail.
In training the intellectual and moral f.'lculties, the object,
generally, is to raise them to the highest natural standard.
This differs much in diffe~ent individuals, and H•cms to •
luwe natural limits, beyond which it cannot pnss. That
orgnns grow by exercise, cnnnot be doubted. Devill" sny~
he hns known them to grow after forty years of age. I do
not say this is not so, but I have not seen them do so; 1
have seen them grow at twenty-eight years of uge. But
when size is not increased by exercise, the tone is improved
and the activity exalted. In a former lecture I drew your
attention to cases in which, the skull being removed, the
brnin wns seen to be grently excited by mental action.
This cerebrnl excitement is owing, proximately, to the flow
of blood to the brain ; for the brain is subject to aU the
lnws of the system in genernl. During exertion, blood
ru~.~lu.•s to it, as to muscles under like circumstances; and
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ACTION UNDER BXCITEIIBHT.
by judicious and well sustained exercise, n cerebra) organ
becomes enlarged in like manner as a muscle. If you
want, therefore, to train Philoprogenitivcne~s, wbnt is the .
only rational course t Not to tell the girl to lo\·c .cl1ildren ;
that would filii inefficaciously on the mind. No; present
a child to her attention ; Jet her be induced to nurse it, to
watch over it, to play with it ; this causes a rush of blood
to the ·organ, which stimulates it, improves its tone and fa-
Yours its growth. You mighJ as well expect to increase thr
power, activity or a size of a muscle by instructing n youth
that exercise is n duty, without taking care that he put his
muscles into activity, as to expect the improvement of n
cerebral organ under like circumstances.
The foregoing remarks are not theoretical, but practical,
and founded on observation. I may mention that I ob-
served to-day a case strongly confirmatory of the truth of
the foregoing observations. 'fhe daughter of n scicn·
tific gentleman• of this city fell from the roo1~1 wiaulo,,·
when she was about four years of oge; her hend stwek
upon the iron bar which extended from the roiling to the wall,
and the skull was extensively fractured, without rupturing
the pin mater or doing on1 serious injury to the brnin.
~he was attended by Dr. Mott; the skull was removed from
the superior posterior portion of the bend, the integument~
were ·dnnvn· over, and the child recovered. Immediately
after the wound wns closed, her fntber wns struck with the
variety of motiuJlS in the brnin, and its great activity du-
ring excitement, producing us he said, o sensntion in the
ltond ns if it were feeling at a 11truggling leech through n
silk handkerchief. The child has a well formed bend, with
large Self E11teem, Love of Approbation·, ond Firmness.
I hove before etnted thnt bnshfulnet~s is principally an af-
fection of Self Esteem; and, when I put my bond on the
integument• soon after abe entered the room~ I ~elt thia or·
'. • Jamee J. Mapee, Eeq.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
COMBINATION IN .o\CTIVITY. 341
gnn distinctly in great commotion, with Love ofApprobation
affected in a less degree. I spoke to her inn friendly manner;
and as she acquired confidence, the commotion of Sdf-Es-
teem s·c~bsided, and that of Love of Approbatiou incrensccl.
The fnther stated that when intellect was engaged, the.eA:-
citemelit in the region of the sentiments cea!led. lie gan:
her an arithmetical problem to solve which puzzled her :a
little, and all the commotion of Self Esteem and Lo,·c of
Approbation disappeared, except the regular arterial throb.
One great object ofeducation l'hould he, to train certain
organs which conduce to a common end, in such way as
to establish among t11em a communion of activity. Thu!l,
to give the tnlent for music ; Tune, Time,'Veight,.Ideality,
and Imitation should be trained to work together. They
mny be all lnrge, yet, without training, the efforts to make
.music will be imperfect. Suppose one of you, who hncl
never attempted to speak in public, should rise to adJrc$S
this audience, from the pluce where I now stund : he would
make n confused nnd incoherent speech, even if Language,
Individuality, Eventuality, Comparison and Causality were
large, because they would not net simultaneously. But let
him prnctice-let him train those organs to combined ac-
tivity, and he will become an eloquent spenker. So, in
playing upon the piano-forte or harp, the muscles at first
will not net well ; but, by practice, their activity becomes
almost wonderful. Training mnkes the great distinction
between men on being introduced into a drawing-room.
The most intellectual nnd tuninble may feel very much
embnrrnssed and di:;tresscd on seeing so mnny well dressed
people ; but, if he repeat his ,·isits, and hubitunte himself to ·
it, he mny become the pride nnd ornament of a society, of
which, at first, he seemed a hopeless member.
We have not the power of preventing our feelings, but
we ·have the power of controlling them. They start into
involuntary activity ; it is for the moral sentiments to sup-
ply the curb. In most, the strength of their impulses needs
29"
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
842 IN8TRUOTION. INTELLECT. 11'\STINCT.
to be lessened; and recollect, that every dny in which the
moral sentiments are trained, the activity of the propcn11itics
is diminished; just as, by using the right arm exclusin•ly,
we should diminish t1u3 power of the left. · In t~omc cnses,
laowcver, though not often, a pnrticular propcn!!ity needs
cultivation ; os Combativeness, for instance. This must
be done by putting the child in n little danger, ond training
it to meet the danger well. I notice thnt the Rev. Mr.
Warne has just issued n very judiciou11 work on the subject
of moral training, called "Plmmology in the fnmily."
The next thing we wnnt is INSTRUCTION ; ond let us in·
quire what constitutes instrnr.tion ; the necessity of it i~ ob·
vious. We must recollect that the propensities nod senti·
menta are oil blind. Philoprogenitiveness gives love of
cl.aildren, but it does not tell us what is the best wny of ma-
nuging them. vcncrntion gives us a tendency to revere,
but it does not inform us whut nre the true objects of re·
spect or worship; but mnn is sent into this world with n
combinntiou of fncultics, ndmirnbly fitting him to nttnin
this kuowlcllgo. An uninstructed mt\ll is one in whotu all
tho organs work nt rnndom. Instruction consists in be-
coming acquainted, first, with ourselves, and then with the··
world without, with which wo nrc in relutionship; nnd
with tho mode of so mlllpting our conduct to external cir·
cumstances, as to produce tho greatest amount of enjoy-
sncnt to ourselves and benefit to others.
Let me here draw the line of distinction bct\veen the in-
tellect of mun, naid wl111t is called instinct in animals. In-
stinct euobles its possessor not only to do certain things,
hut impcle it to do them in o ccrtnin wny. Birds, for in-
Mtnnc~, hnvc nn orgnn ofCont~lructivencss, which givesthem
n desire to build nests i but it also gives them tho tendency
to build' their nesls in a certain manner, and in that only.-
. SC) the bee is instinctively impelled not only to build ita
bi\'e, but to construct the cells in n certnin way, that way
Mlng one by which the greatest amount of accommodation
Digitized by GoogIe
THE TWO MODBS OP INSTRUC.N . 343
is secured in a given spac~. ·l'rlan, on the contrary, has
faculties enabling· him to construct the most enduring and
magnificent structures, but he has no particular plan im-
pressed on his mind, according to which he must construct;
he needs knowledge-instruction.
There are two modes of obtaining knowledge : the one
·is to present the obje~t directly to the faculties, and then
add the name ; the second is to give the nnme, and add a
description. Now a word is nothing of itself; before it is
of the slightest importance, it must be joined ·to nn
ideo. The. difference of the two modes of instruction
mny be thus illustrated : I have a bust behind me ; sup-
pose I describe it to you, and give you· the name: ho\v tiaiut
would be your conception of its size, form and colour ! I
now present it to you, and give you the nnme ; the object
being directly presented to the filculties, you will obtain a bet-
ter iden of it in three minutes, than from n description or
three hours' length. When yon t~cnd your children to
school and set them to lcnrn by roh', you gh·o them \\'ords
merely, not ideus; you increase their knowledge of sign$,
not of things. The true plan is, to present the object to
the children ; let them exumine its form, size, colour and
other particulurs, nnd aftcnvnrd tell the nnme, nnd spell it.
All nnturo is adapted in the most beuutiful mnnucr to the
ftlcuhil'll1 nnd the study of nature imparts grent pleasure.
'rhus the curiosity of children to know things is insatiable ;
you nrc a~va~c thut they will brenk their playthings to lenm .
what is WJtluu. .
'Vhen properly tnught, the clements of all the sci~nees
nrc simple. Tulk to a child nbout geometry, triangles, nod
hexagons, nnll you will puzzlo it complotdy; but present a
figure, let it notice thnt it hns three sides and three cornors
then tell it that nll 1 fi · 1 d • dil '
• sue 1 n·urcs nrc trann~r cs un at rea 1
understands the o -. 0 ' •
Ch.ld matter; so of the other geometr&cnl figures.
1 ~en ohvnys tnke plensurc in learning by nctunl pre-
:~entotlon; they cnn be instrueted in olmost ony thing which
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
INFANT f'CIIOOLS.
can be presented to them directly' and subjected to their
acnaes. •ro prove this, ' dissected, before two girls and a
boy, the benrt nod ·Jungs of n sheep. Their delight was ·
great, the impression ·m:ulc on their minds vivid nnd lust-
ing. The toucher under whum I suffered-for that is the
term commonly used in Scotlnnd-wns fond of mcchnnics,
nnrl he constructed a bridge ufler tho pl·un luid down by
Cmsnr in his Conununturics, which wns nlwnys brought out
wlten a clns11 cnme to thl\t pnrt. I recollect with whnt
anxiety we looked forwnrd to tho time when we should be
· allowed to study Cresnr's bridge. At lcuglh it cnme ; and
then, instcnd of the disinclination to go to school, the tau-
dinel!ll!l, the trunnt-plnying mul listlessness .of other times,.
aU wus cngcrncsR nnd nttention ; there wns no occnsion for
ICQiding or dogging ; we went on rending und exnmining
with the grentest nssiduity ; and thus the most difiicult pnrl
of tho Commcntnrics becnmo tu us the most en11y. ·w1u~n
the description wns over, with whnt regret did we sco the
bridge deposited in the closet whence it hnd been tnltcn !
The nbovo, and other observations which I hnvo mnde
.are well illustrntcd nnd confirmed by the results of Mr.
Wildcrt~pin'uystcm oflnfimt Educntion. In tho first plnce,·
tho school-rooms nrc Jnrgo nnd well vcntilntcd, so thnt the
children constnntly brcnthe pure nir ; then, surrounding
t}lo school, is n dry, niry piny-ground, nnd tho ploy nnd
lessons nrc so judiciously nlternntod, thnt neither lose their
attrnctions by over-durution. And in tho school, tho truth thnt
.tho orgnns of the brnin, like the muscles of tho body, will be-
come wearied by longexertion, ispractically attended to; oue
object of study is never dwelt upon so long as to cause
fatigue.
In· their intellectunl exercises, the presentation of visible
and tangible objects holds the most conspicuous place. By
degrees they are familinrized with a great variety of sub-
.Jtances-with.their qualities and rellltion•, their natural and
artificiol combinations. All .the faculties which take oog·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
INF.\NT SCIIOOLS.
nizance ofexternal things nrc thus directly stimulntcd nne\
plensurnbly exerted. They obtnin, by this menus, n ,·nst
~mount of useful knowledge, ns it were in play. Tlu.•
teacher will tnke n mathemnticnl figure-a triangle, for irl-
stnnce-nnd ask them if they would like to tnlk nhout it!
Ycs, they nre all anxious. lie gets them to dc$cribc it.
They sec thnt it hns thrt-c sides und thrco corners, nnd tdl
him so. After they hnvc t•xnmincd it for t\ suflicicnt time,
he nsks if they would liko to know the unmc t Ycs, thcy
would Hl<c to lmow the unme. lie then tl'lls them the
numc, nnd they repent it. Would you like to tcll mother
how to spell the word t-he .will ·then inquirl', pcrlmps.
YCll1 tht•y would like thnt \'cry much. He tlum sets np the
word with woollen letters, nm\ they Fpcll it o\'t'r. In thi~
wny they lcam to rend, ns it were, incitlcutnlly. fulltruc-
tion is never prolonged mora than n qunrtcr of tm hour.
The cla:1:lCS in tum pass into the piny-ground, which is the
thcntt·e for moml trnining. 'l'hcro the older children nrc
truin1!d to be l(ind null nflcctionnto to the younger; e\-cry
tlcriutitlll fl·om benevolence nnd conscicntiommcss-c\·cr)'
uuthreuk of pnssion or mnuifc:~tntiun of sl'lti:~hncs~, is mndtl
a mnllcr ut' intJiliry; nuthiug, in fiact, i~ con~hlcrcd too in•
signilicunt for such innstigntion. 'J'I1is is cumluctcd open·
ly, the chilllrcn being the jury ; they rnrcly .flail to tnke n
just \·icw of the matter, nnd giro n jullt nwnrJ.
It i:J p«'rfl·ctly dl·lightful to sec the effect of this trl\iniug.
'l'cauptnthm~ nrc uut rcmo\·cd, Lut prc.•!lcntcd; null though
mnuy uf the chillll'l'n nrc tnl~cu fl:om the very lowest rtmkJ
ofsociety, an~ somn hm·c not suflicicnt food, yetthc dinnen
of tl~cir more fortunate school-mutes-the currnuts, goose·
~crncll, pcnrs nud npplcs in the plny-grouml, nrc nil sofo ns
af unllcr lock nnd key. In our country, there nrc pnrenta
lio poor that they htn·c to send their children to school with·
out c.liuucr · '1'1 · · . .
::.. us ~~ mnJc n mcnns of cuhavntmg the be·
nuvolcucc of th fi •
. o more '"'ourcd, who mnkc upndmuorout
uC thcars fur the little unfortunates.
o,9, izeooy Coogle
DIPAJI'I' ICBOOL&.·
I understand that in this country a number of tbcsc
achools ban been «inn ap; on nsking the renson, I wal'
tolc:l that the parents were dissatimed becnu~~e tbe children
did not learn to read as quickly and fluently as they. desir-
ed. I aawa specimen, in Philadelphia, of an infant-school,
the chief object of which seemed to be instruction in -read-
ing; and, certainly, some of tht'ill rend beautifully. Dut
I asked them what is meant by going to the right hand,
what by «<ing to the left, nod told them to lift up their right
bands. About one half held up the right hnnd, and the
otherbalfthe left. I asked tbem which woy was enst, which
west; they eould not tell. A higher class wns called ~p,
and read about Jefferson taking the oath of the Constitu-
tion. I asked what was mennt by nn onth, and what by
the Constitution ; they eould not teJI. The tenchcr said it ·
was impossible that they should know those things ; but
when they were grown up, she hoped they would find
them out. I·hope so too. The tencher was n very intelli-
gent Indy and wished to explain the les!lous ; but the pa-
rents thought that the time was lost which was dedicated
to explnnotions, and they compluined to the Directord of
the School. She was then ordered to mnke " fluent rea--
ders" of the children as quickly as possible, wbich she ct>r-
tainly accomplished.
Scotland has had grent credit given her as a land of edu-
cation; but I am afraid we draw on the credit of what was
our due two hundred yenrs ago,when compared with other
nations of that time. The discovery has no\Y been made--
uot by phrenologists, but by a minister of the church of'
Scotland-that my country people are not half educated.
I should say not one-twentieth-perbups not one-fiftieth
port educated. .I mean by this that mnny do not receive
even the rudiments of education, rending, writing and arith-
metic, and that ~o~paratively few receive more. Contrasting
these slender ~tt(lmm~nts with the amount of instruction in
lhe elements ofnn~urnl science, physical Rod moral, and iu
0,9;t~zed by Google
GREEK AND LATI,N. 3.(7
relig.ion, which is requisite to fimn a good Cllucntion, nnd
with, the training which is necessary to teach children to
practice it ; I say thnt the people of Scotlund nrc not one·
fiftieth pnrt educated. If you commence a reform in your
educational ·plnns, and carry them forwnrd with cner~ry,
'you will, in twenty yenrs~ confess the same of your own
country at this time.
You nrc generally before us in the cducntion of the peo-
ple, but you are not so conspicuous for the quality as yon
are for the quantity of educntionnlmcant:. Ifyou will in-
quire into the subjects taught in y~ur schools, you will find,
I am afrnid, that the number of useful idens impnrted is not
ns great as it shoulll be. I do not undcrvnluc n knowledge
of words; but to impnrt n knowledge of useful idcns shoulc.l
be the great object. You pny your money, why do you
not tnke care to have your money's worth t
The Greeks nnd Romnns were the earliest nations of
Europe who attained civilizntion; in other words, they were
the first who so fm· cultivated their mental fnculties ns to
attain tolerably numerous and precise idens of go,·crnmctJt,
Jaws, morals, intcllectunl philosophy and the fine artt~. In
consequence of their minds containing these idens, their
' language eontniucd terms to express them. The ignornut
barbarians of the north of Europe overturned the Roman
empire, nud became its rulers. These men hnd not reach-
ed the ideas ntt~incd hy the Greeks and Romans, and their
language of course hnd no terms by which to express them.
A long night of barbarism prcvniled over Europe for ages i
and when civilization dnwned ngnin upon Italy, where it
last set, manuscripts were taken from the lumber-rooms,
disinterred from the monastic cells, and studied with avidi-
ty. They contained new ideas, as well ns new words;
were found to embrace more sublime and elegnnt poetry-
more brilliant, pointed nnd ingenious wit-more just and
profound views on law, criticism, nnd philosophy, than had
been known since the subversion of the Rom11n empire i
Digitized by Coogle
348 IMPORTANCE OF PHISIOLOGY.
and these treos\_lres were embodied in languages so rich
discriminative and-refined, that Europe, in addition to this
nccenion of knowledge, was at once furnished with excel-
lent vehicle• of thought without· the labour of invention.
Greek and Latin became, in these. circumstances, objects
ofintense study among oil men who aspired to superior
intelligence ; nod, in establishing colleges for the study or
those languages, our ancestors acted wisely, 08 they thus
enjoyed the richest intellectual stores existing in the world.
But the zeol_for knowledge was in the course of time re-
worded by new and stupendous discoveries. The modern~
· fnr outstripped the ancients in ·science, morality and reli-
gion. This state of things hos altered the relath·e impor·
tnuce of Greek nnd Latip. There is now no idea which
is not clcnrly expressed in our own language, and we have
_ in Europe o thousand ideas in every thing relating to un-
tural science, for one possoosed by the Greeks.•
The nncients--ns the moderns, until recently-confined
lmowledge to an oligarchy ; it was never imagined thnt the
vulgar mind, as they coiled it, could understand the nrts
nnd sciences. Phrenology dispels all these errors, by show-
ing tbnt nil men have ~acuities for the understanding and·
appreciating of knowledge.
I ~ould urge with earnestness the importance of Phy-
siology· os n branch of knowledge to be studied by all.-
J.ectures on this interesting subject are worthy of your ear-
nest attention. In 1796 Dr. Beddoes delivered a course of
lectures on Physiology, and in 1797 another course was de-
• "Ifa m1111 ~a natural born fool, Mr. Speaker," said David Crock·
''"in the House or Representatives, "and know• twenty different Jan.
!fUaget, '"bat then f \Vby he hu twenty difFerent modes oftalking fool-
ilbly!' Tbhlbold andaagneious man, teems tohave greatlyunde"alued
the advantage which he here acknowledges the linguist to p018881. It is
uladeuioble ·that "a mouthful" (u Johu BeD bat it) or nonsense and
niTI!Ctuti~n, sonnds far better, and il ia&nitely more impollina in a forei(lt
th~n in onr mo~rtonpe. ·
•
o; tized 'YGoogle
U.lPORTANCE OF PUl"SIOLOGY. 3-19
livered; after this liUch lectu~ing fell into disuse. \Yhcn I
revived jt tweh•e yenra ago, it was denounced as abs12r~ aud
indelicate; but it is now practised so extensively throughout
the country, nnd the demand is so great, that if I had had
ten lecturers in Britain, there would not ha,·e been more
than might have been employed in tilling the applicatiaus
that I received. ( perceive thnt a Indy here hns been lec-
turing upon Phyeiology to ladies, nnd that for this one of
the papers has co\·ered her with abuse. Of the character
ofthe lectures I am entir-ely igi10rant, und cun say nothing;
but, as every thing formed by the Creator has purity for it$
essence, [ mny say that if they were delivered with proper
delicacy, 1 can conceh·e of nothing calculated to be hnlf
so useful-to the sex to which they were ndtlrcssed.
I tnke the liberty to urge very earnestly on your nuen-
tion, not only the nd,·antage, but the necessity of intro-
ducing instruction in Anatomy nnd Physiology into popu-
lar education. 'fhe grent laws of hcnlth cnnnot be under-
stood, nor their importance nppreci;ttcd, without this knowl-
edge. I do not meun thnt you should tench your children
nil the minute detoils of these sciences, which would be
necestrary if you intended them to practice medicine and
surgery. All I desire is, that the structure of the leadinr
organs of the body should be explained so fur as to reml~r
their functions intelligible ; und, that on this knowledge
should be founded a clcnr nnd practical elucidation of the
laws of henlth. I cnn certify, from observation, that thf.s
instruction may be communicated to children of ten years
Qf nge and upward, \Vith great success. The structure ad-
dresses their obsen·ing faculties, and nn explanation of the
functions is ns interesting to them as n romantic story.
One great advantage of the training I recom"mend is,
tl~at _by bringing the mind into contact with Nature, you
give at a sure footina on which to re~:~t. 1\lere word-lelU'Il•
. h e
mg as no foundation but the opinion of this grent doctor,
>rthat grent professor, or the third great writer; but whea
~0
o;9,tized by Google
JNAPPROPR.UTE TR.\JNJNG•
. you come to· Nnture, you feel that it is the work of God,
that yod ~re on n rock. 'l'his give1.1 healthy activity to the
anind, nnd prepares it to ·discharge encrgHically the duties
of life•. By such a method of training to wnlk east in the
achool, you ore enabling pupils te walk we~t in nctive
life.
Then, in the last place, religion should form nn impor-
tant port of education. Dut, instend of appealing to the
religiout1 feelings by words merely, tnke children to the
works of creation, point to the hand of God in nil things;
nnd thus tench them not merely a speculative religion fo~
Sunday, but teach them thnt God is in nnd around them ;
thnt in every movem•mt of their existence they live, move,
nnd hove their being, supported by His power, reworded
by His goodness, restrained by llis justice und mercy ;
thnt every net of their Jives hns n consequence of good or
t!Vil onnc,xed to it, according os it harmonizes with or is in
opposition to the immutnble lows of our Crentor.
The sort of truining to which children hnvc been, nnd
nre even yet, t~ubjected, rnny be illustrated by nn anecdote
which I hnd from the old Judy who is therein mentioned,
nnd who related to me her plnn of education ond mode of
discipline with evident self-sntisfuction. Her grandson re·
Aided with her, nnd !!he took pnrticulnr pnins in his educa·
tion-the best which !lhe thonght it pos!liLie to give him 1
being to tench him to repent by rote psnlms nnd chapters in
the Bible. One dny John's cousins were coming to visit
him, and she wo11 very desirous that he i!!hould mnke on ex-
tra display; so she set him double tnslts. "Now, Johnny,"
enid she," learn your tnsks well, nnd I will give you n Jorge
piece of bunn." Those who do not )mow whnt n Scotch
bunn is;nccd be told thnt it consists of currnnts, spices,
butter, raisins, almonds, nnd other things, with jut~t enough ·
offlour to make them stick together. John learned hisles·
1on, ate his piece of bunn, and pnssed _the evening in
1reat excitement with his cousins. When-he weot to bed,
'
INAPPROPRIATE TRAINING. 351
his brain was so much excited that he could not sleep,. aud
his huon remained undigested on his stomach. Next day,
being Sunday, he went to church with hiit ·grandmother;
but instead of attending to the sermon as u~ual, he fell
asleep. She was much displeased at this, and poked him
continually with her elbow to. keep him awake, but to no
· purpose. After church was·over, she scolded him, and lu: .
promised to sleep nt church no more. They took dinucr
and went to church again, when, in spite of his resolution,
and grandmother's pol\ing, John slept again. After coming
bome she set him to Jearn two chapters in the Bible-one
as his regular task, and one as a punishment. He was
ashamed of his conduct, and tried to learn them, but coultl
not. "Oh, Johnny ! Johnny!'' said his grandmother, "you
are a very naughty boy, and I did not expect this from
you !" His grandmother's. reproaches fell hea\'ily upon
John's feelings und he made n grent ctrort to muster hi~
task ; uut in vnin. His exhausted brain could· not rctniu
one word of the chapter:S. His etlorts, however, caused
violent excitement in his head. His checks were flu!:ihcd
nod his temples throbbed. Suddenly he burst into u loud
fit of crying. " \Vhnt is the matter now, Johnny l" cried
the good old Indy. " I have got a dreadful tooth-ache," said
he. "Oh, Johnny, you sec whnt comes ofbeingn·bad boy.
God has sent you the tooth-nche as n punishment for sleep·
ing in the church." So thought Johnny's grandmother;
hut a rational physiologist would sny, that it was a lucky
circumstance for the child thnt he had a decayed tooth 01i
\Vhich the nervous excitement seizP.d, before hit~ brain w~s
forced into n state of inflammation or some other violent dis-
ense wns induced. The child was now put to bed and
hap~il! a\~okc next morning refreshed by sleep and well.
But 1t IS cv1dcnt that his grandmother had given him a most
erroneous and detrimental view of God's administration of
the world, when she nscrihed to his vindictive wrath n re·
suit that was clenrly imputable to her own ignorant infrac-
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
INAPPROPRIATE TRAINING.
tion of the Jaws of health which he had established for the
\Yelfnre of the child. I dwell on this incident the more
earnestly because it shows, thnt mere piety and religious
knowledge nre not sufficient to guide a pnrent to rntionnl
treatment of a child, without knowledge of its nnturnl con-
stitution.·
Just think what must be the effect of such training agd
instruction. The Grandmother excites his fncultie!' un-
duly, nnd does this by bribing hi11 propensities. The in·
dige~:~tible hunn deranges the system, nnd aht~trnets the
nenous energy from the brnin, incnpncitating him from n.t·
tending to the sermon. He sleeps, and is told, thnt this is
committing n greut sin. In consequence of the excited nnd
. deranged state ~f the system, a tooth, which hnppened to
hnve a tondcncy to discnsc, begins to nchc, and God, he is
told, hnd sent this tooth-nche to punish him for sleeping in
church. 'VImt nn idcn this boy must have hnd of tho ad-
ministration of God's government!
I would ndvisc pnronts to study tho works or Nnture fl,r
themselves, thnt when their children, euger for knowledge,
inquire from them concerning thing11, they mny be able to
answer dmir inquiries, mul not scncl them nwny ns though
they were rude in their hehnviour. Sec well to your schools;
let the constitution of mnn be tt1ught, nnd its relntions to
external nature. To do this is imperative ; for in this, of
all countries under the cnnopy of heaven, knowledge nnd
Yirtue nre most needed. Your people wieM the destinies
of this nntion, nnd yet they nre essentially nn uneducnted
people, in the sense in which I use the word. How cnn
they govern .euccessfully, when themselves are uninstruct·
ed. The eyes of o11 ci'filized nntiont nre upon you ; yon
are the hope of the .philosopher nnd the philnnthropist.
For God~• lake, do not shipwreck the cause of humnnity I
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
APPEARANCES OFTEN HISL&AD. 353
LECTURE XVI.
THE APPLICATION OF PIIRENOLOG\' TO TilE PRESENT AND
PROSPECTIVE CONDITION OF TilE UNITED ST.\TES,
Two yenrs ngo I was euubled to quit the profession of ·
the law~ and devote myself to the science of my affections.
I did not come here for wunt of opportunities or importu-
nities in my own country. Applications to lccturt.l reuchcd
me from all pnrts; so mnny, indeed, tlmt it would bnn~
tukeu two ycurs to htn-c complied with them nil. One reason
of my leaving llritain was to ~i\·e others the opportunity
ofdistinguishing thcmsdvcs, nnd showing their zcru by tbe
ndvocucy of Phrenology. I hud ulso nuothcr rcnsou. I
hnvc visited mnuy countries, ti.1r the purpose ofjudging f~
myself tho ctlccts of tlitr.~rcnt t()~ms of go\·crumcnt on tht)
chnrnctcr mad hnppint~:is nf the pctlplt• ;-Pru1111itt, Austria,
llnvuria, l'rnnce nnd Switzerland, for instunce. Nolv,
your government hns prcscuted n problem nmong nations,
of peculiar intcrcst and importance; nnd I cnme here for
the purpose of judging for myself of its operation, and of
sowing among you the sct:ds of l1ltrcnology.
In the course of my lectures I hnve made some obse"a·
tions on your institutions ; in this lecture I shall make
others. But I must nlwnys be understood us speaking of
things as they nppcnr to me. I once visited a port of Som·
ersctshi~ iu which the soil iii \'Cry light, t\nd there saw a
man guldtl n li"ht l'lotwh tlmwn by four large horses.
"'Vh 0 1::' .
nt n ~\'ustc of strength is here!" I thought. I ex·
pressed tlus opinion tn n \'cry intelligent Cunner whom I
met next dny iu society. " You, sir," said he, "judge u
30•
Dig' ized by GoogIe
IN WliAT LIJ\ERTY CONSISTS.
atrnngcrs nnturnlly <lo, nml think we nrc very fooH!!h ; but
it ia our but4iness to truiu ht>r11cs for the Loudon market,
ond this is the plnn we tnke to brenk in the young horses
to labour, which increoses the price when we come to ilell
them., When I epeak of Americn, I spenlt from oppenr·
nnces, nnd ns o strnngcr, liublo to draw erroneous infer-
ences.
Amcricn ia justly J•roud of her superior constitution nnd
J>Oiiticnl indcpcmlcucu ; but if I wcr<' to 1~11k cHtli•Mtt
Americmtl in whnt tho· su1•eriority consit~ttl, 1 t~honltl hnvl'
very different anawtJrs. · Phrenology llolvcs thll qucsti.on
ntoro JlrtlCiHely thnn amy other t~y.-tcm of mentnJ philo11ophy.
It tcucholf us tlmtnlltho fhculties seck enjoyment, 1\Ult tnkt•
pleasure in nctivity ; thnt tho moro nud tho higher thu
fncultiee in nction nro, the grcntcr tho plcnsurc ; .and thnt
the fewer nml lower tho fncultics in action, the Ices the
pleasure ;-tho highest enjoyment, however, being pro-
duced by tho virtum11 activity of all tltc facultiu. 'I'he
question then is-Whnt cO'cct hnvo forma o.f government
on tho activity of the litcultics t
AuHtrin iH .n mililMy but still n civilit.ccl clcMpotitnn, and·
thoro i~t gr«mt room ror tho uotivily ur thu rucuhiet'. 'l'~le
propcnsitica hi\VC 08 (uiJ pJuy as in other t~onntritJS; pro•
porty is sncred ; tho haws nrc justly admiuit~terctl ; the
IOCiru affections mny niJ be indulged with sn(cty; fushion
haa. full scope; Love of Approbntion and Self-Esteem ore
in n grcnt measure provided with gratification by means of
rank, title, and government offices. \Vhat, then, is wnnt·
ingt-in what is Austria behind free countries t In thi~:
no nctivity is allowed to the moral faculties beyond the
tphere of private life ; the piny of lhe higher sentiments in
the social circle, in improving the physiclll, moral and in·
tellectunl condition of the people, is forbidden to all who
are not in the employment o( the emperor, and pQsitive
impediments are thrown in the way of the intellectual
· t"acuJtiee. The people are allowed only a certain kind of
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
GOVERN'I\!ENT OF AUfiTRU. 355
instruction. They nrc instructed in the Catholic ns the
only true religion; nud nrc tnught to loot\. upon themselves
ns beings who$e duty is implicit obcdi•!uce to the govern-
ment. They nre allowed to Jearn mnthcmntics, Greek nnd
Lntiu ; but every work is carefully prc::cribcd which i~
deemed likely to disturb the stability of gon·rnmcnt by
enlightening them on politicnl suhjccts. Jr n mnn finds
nuy thing wr()ng, he Ulll$t not complain, nu,l ~trin• ltlr it~
improv<'mcnt. It' he wi:~hl'S to t!stnhli~h n !lduml ti,r th~
instrlll~tion c1f hi11 own und his nci~hhnurt~' chihh·t•u on some
.new pl:ln, he dnrcs not do it. As nu instnncu of the opera·
tion of t1mt gnn•rnnwnt, I mny rt•nmrk, tlmt on \'isiting th~>
lnnntic n!:!ylum of \'icmun, 1 t(mml the tmticnt~ in t\ most
dcplornble conllition-shut lll) in cell~, two it~ l'nch, with·
out nny exercise, uud kept in n wny more tlistres:~iug uud
crud thnn nuy 1 lmd c\·cr Sl'l'U or ht~:ml of. 'l'ho people
of Austl'ia nrc Vl~ry bcnl'\'olcnt, anti tll•plorc these thin~,
but must wnit for the nctiou ot' government. 'fhc gtl\'l;!rll·
ment itsl'lf i~ bmwrolcnt to it:i uwn ttubjccts, nnd supplies
thCi!C }lOCll' humtics with nbmHlllllCO of fuml t\IUl clothing j
hut they hm·c m·hhcr nir, exc•rci~o nt•r l'lnploynll'nt; they
nrc lu~pt Jiku wiltl nnimnls in cc•ll!i, well f~d, but no trt•ut·
mcnt i11 ndmiui~tl·rcd to their mind11. On remonstrating
with the phy~icinn, lao told me thnt no oiu~ could bo more
llcnsiblc than himself of the improper trt'lltUlcnt sutlcrcd by
the insane, through the want of proper physical accommo-
dation, hut that uny servant of the Austrian government
who ~houhl sny things were better nny where else, would
be told to lcm·e .Austrin. A manufncturer informed me
that in consequence of travelling in England and Frnncc,
he wished to have his ~on educated in those countries; but
knowing this would not be permitted by the government, he
got n passport from one town to another until he arrived nt .
the borders of Swit~erlaud-, when he passed him over the
line like a piece of contrnband goods. You will see by
thi&, thnt a man whose moral and intellectual fnculties nre
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
UO'fERNHENT OF PRUSSIA.
or a laigh order, must be mode to feel the iron in hi» soul
continually ; r~r the higher ho is in the moral and intel-
Jec,ual ecole, and the more desirous he is to elevate the
character of those below him, and raise them to the su·
premocy or the sentiments, the more keenly docs h., feel
the stern band ofdespotism press upon the noblest prompt-
in~ of his nature, and cramp and fetter his highest aspi-
rations.
Prussia was in the some state nd Austria, until the gov-
ernment was overthro\m by Napoleon in 1805. After its
restoration, ho\Vever, it saw its former error. Tho mnl's o~
the peoplo hnd been so oppret'sed as to Jose nil nntionnl
feeling, nnd filii nn ensy prey to the invader. 'l'o crente n
notionnl feclit:g wns then the great object, nml this could
be done only by rnising the mass to some importnncc. Ac-
cordingly the serfs were set free, und a system of education
ndopted which soon brought nbout a favourable chnnge.
Prussia, then, is a despotism, but n liberal despotism. The
education provided is superior to that of nny other country
• or Europe, nt any rnte, and I think we must not except the
United .Stutes. The government is very well administered;
its officers nre gentlemanly in their conduct; the post-office-
is well attended to; the whole of the stage coaches nre
.under the supervision of government, but care is token that
there shall be nothing of which to complnin. If a pnssen-
ger arrive more than the regular conveyance \Viii occom-
modnte, o conveyance is furnia:&lu~d expressly for him.
The laws nrc admirably ndministered. In whnt theu does
the inferiority of this government consist t ·I have snid
thnt.happiness is the result of the activity of the faculties ;
.and. while the Prussian government does every thing for
the people, it allows the people to do nothing for them-
selves• . 1.,he following circumstnnce may serve as an illus-
tration : When I was there, one serious evil began to deve·
loPe itself. The provision for the education ofthe females
is 10 much inferior to tb(\t or the malea, that great diaparitr
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
GOVERNI\IENT OF GREAT BRITAIN.
is the result, nnd the former nre losing respect. This \'fi\F
mttch regretted by mnny, but it wus under!ltood thnt gov-
ernment fdt more inclined to (\iminish the educntion of the
males thnu to iticrem:e thnt of the fcmnles. " nut," l'nid
I, to a very influentinl l,rn~~inn, " why do you not com·
mcnce schools yourselves of n higher order 1" " You
tnlk," wns his reply, "like a Briton. Hci'C nothing nmst
be done without the gove.;rnment; should any private inrlivi-
dunl attempt to commence nn improved public ncndemy
for fP.mnlcs, without the snnction ofgovernment, he would
quieldy be stopped." l\lissionnry societies hnve their rules
prescribed by government, nnd spies nrc nt cn~ry mcetiu~,
to tnl~e cnrc that those rules nrc not \'iolntcd. A~tin, the
government is so cnlightcHed thut it nllows the higher mitids
of the country to publish uny work they plensc concerning
governmenteven,so thnt itcontnin no nppenl to the passions,
and is published in nn octnvovolume ofthree hundred pages.
From the philosopl~crs of Berlin, works appear containing
the most liberal and enlightened views, but in n style ill
cnlculutcd to nrouse the energies of tho mass, null at ·n
price beyond their reach ; but, if, in any prncticul reform, n
mnn nttempts to go forwnrd fitster than the government, it
immediately nrrcsts his progress; if he persists, it crushcj;
him. In this way is n bridle put into the mouth of the
higher sentiments, and their activity eurbed.
Let us turn to the go\·crnmcnt of Great Britain nnd Ire- .
land. 'Vc luwe enjoyed liberty for centuries nnd clnim to
be th.e fnthcrs of your liberty: We have tl;e right to say
o.r prmt whnt we please, in whnt form we plense; we h:we the
raght to d~ nny thing ,~·e think proper, providing we inter·
fere not wath the rights of others · the exercise of freedotu
in religious opi · · '
- mons 1s ns grent there as here. \Ye have,
however two b 1 • k 1· 1
. . . ' u "nr s w uc 1 nrrest, to some extent, the
. 8
1ctavi~Y of the higher sentiments. The first of these is the
•eredJtnry nristo I . I . d d . .
.1 • cracy, w He 1 IS nttcn e With th1s great
ev• : It crente b d f
s a o y o men who have no sympathy with
o,9,•izec by Coogle
358 BEI\EDITAI\1' ARISTOCRACY. NATIONAL CHURCH.
the )ower orderfl, yet hnve the power of giving effect to
their own wilJ, nnd of keeping the people from the enjoy-
anent of their rights. 1'he existence of such on order hns
this effect on the milldlo cln~ttes of society : it prevents
them from being, as they .shouhl be, tho nnturnl protectors
of those beneuth them, lends them when they ncquire
wealth to look constantly upward with the hope ofbecoming
ranked with the aristocracy ; and thus, in fnct, do some of
the highest and .most energetic minds become absorbed
into the priYileged ranks. And what is the effect t
Our · humbler clas~:~es nre, generally, deplornbly ig-
uorant; many of them are immornl, and too many of
. them poor. Every philanthropist must desire to improve
their condition. But frequently men of the lower and
middling clnsses, who, by superiortnlents and energy, rise in
the scale.of fortune nnd influence oro ashamed of the class
whence they sprung, and, instead ofstriving with them and
for them, they put the~r heels upon nnd assist to crush
them.· They nrc blinded to the evils and degrndntions
·which they themselves lmve eacnped, are .partie~J to the con-
tinuance of wrongs which should wring their hearts with
· · 11mpntliy, and the hope of removing which should nerve
. their nrms with more thnn hui'Uan energy. But instead,
the nristocrncy gnthers nroul'!d it the principal tnlent of the
· country from every other class; nnd the influence of their
rnnl' is such, thnt if two men come forward for office, one n
Jord and the other low-horn, whatever mny be the chnrnc·
ter of tho fhrmer, he will, in genernl, receive ten Totes for
the other's one ; in short he would cnrry the election
ngninst the nngcl Gubricl.
The other institution to which l nlluded is the Church
of England. A vast number of moo are privileged by law
to expound religion, for which they receive immense emo· ·
Ju1nents. The parliament, some centuries ngo, when people
were neither witter nor better tlum they nre now, fixed cer-
tain interpretations of scripture os conta~niog the only true
. .
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ON THE UNION OF CIJURCil AND ST.\T£. 3;)9
will of God, nnd prescribed particular tenets ns necessary
to salvntioo. To these tenets men must. subscribe bt·forc
they nro permitted to enter on the duties of \'nriOtts t)tUd~tl
. stations. '.fhis doubtless lcntls to hypocritoy in mnny, mu.l
acts ns n barrier to high minded men. '!'here is a ~lwng
pnrty in England and .Scotland, who ad,·ocnte nationnl
education. The national churches of both countries Eay
- 'Ve will agree to it, if you will give us the control of
the system. But the dissenters· say-No! we cannot do
that. '.fhus, through the influence ofthese political church-
establishments, this most impc>rtnut measure is prevented
from coming il\,to operation. The authoritative declaration
by public men of certain points of faith, ns being the only
true expositions of the will ot' God, the offering of lnr~re
emoluments to those i)ersous who choose to espouse thes~
interpretations, nnd vi~iting with obloquy, exclusion and
disqunlificntiou those who doubt them, nnd espccinlly the
investing of the~e dogmas with the ottribute of infallible
truth, so that every man who propos.es to improve them, is
punished for heresy, and excluded from Christian pri,·i-
leges, is ot once to anchor theology so that it shall be im-
possible for it to advance with the increasing knowledge
of the age, and to tie up the moral and intellectual fncul-
ties of society from nil free honest und independent ncth·ity
in the highest and most momentous field of human enquiry
-religion. This union of church nnd state-this anchor-
ing of religion, doubtless trammels the activity of the moral
and intellectual fi1culties; the tendency of which is ahvays,
when allo\\'ed fair play, to raise the character of a people.
In this country you are. free from such shackles. The fa-
culties are allowed to talte their full swing; you have no
hereditory aristocracy to lord it over you-no established
church to tell you peremptorily whnt you must or should
believe. .And this is the great distinction between your go-
vernment nnd ours; an advnntage which none but such as
1ne acquointed with the true philosophy of mind can fully
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
36() ACTmTY or ACQUISITIVENESS IN TilE UNITED 8TAT~8.
appreciate. Do you fully upprccinte these high privileges 1
I think that many look upon them as a matter rather of
bragging and egotism than uuy thing else.
We have seen thnt itl Austria the higher faculties ar.e ket>t
oa in a stagnant po.ol ; that in Prussia they nrc allowed
much more uctivity ; in Englund vastly more ; aud that in
this cquntry they ore allowed full swing. Now nil the fa·
cultiea huve a sphere of virtuous activity, but they h:n·e
~lao n wide sphere of abuse. For instuucc, it is impost~ible
to li¥e he·re six mon~hs without seeing the many temptations
to which Acquisitiveness is subjected. I have before snld
t.hut to this faculty we are indebted for momentous oblign·
tiona. It inspires us with the Jove-of acquisition, which
prompts us to buihl ships, to construct roads, to make en·
nnh-,.to gather around us the comfort~J-the convenieucelli-
ti.c Juxuriqs of life ; but to its activity Providence has set
limits, which limits muny seem to ovel"look. Acquisitive·
ness is burning in itt~ desires morning, noon nud night ;
men forget the conditions on which the nccumulutiou of
})foperty depends, and strive to obtuiu it by improper menus.
Wcalth does not come like rain from the clouds, neither cnn
il be gathered in the &treets. It is the product of labour,
skill, und energy assiduously applied in some useful pur-
suit. Dy gambling aml speculation men may create a sud-
den a~ad fictitious, nn unjust and injurious distribution of
\VCalth ; but they cannot, by such mcnns, create wealth it~
self; any more thnn they can add a pushel of wheat lo the
sum totnl of Just year's crop by spcculnting on ita rise or
fi11J. 1\Inny of your people appear to. me to be so much
excited by the blind impulses of Acquisitiveness, that they
never spend a thought upon the Jaws which nature bas pre·.
Mcribed to the production und distribution of wealth. They
gamble and speculate instead of labouring to produce and
ncquire property according to nature's conditions. They
.. hasttm \o be rich aud f~tll into a snare." On what wealth
doe• depend, it become• you to teach your children ; and ·
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
..,
..
SELF·ESTEEM-LOV£ OF APPflOUATION. 361
to obtain it in a proper manner it becomes you to train
them. Recollect, that Acquisitiveness is one of the pro-
pensities, nnd should ba subordinate to the moral senti·
mente. Beur in mind the beautiful trnying of Sir Walter
Scott when on his death-bed. "Remember," said he to a
relative, " thnt the goo(l which you hn\"e done to others ia
the only thing which will give consolation when you come
to be where I now nm."
Self-Esteem is the fountain of indt•pt>ndence. It was
Self-Esteem that led your ancestors to the~e shores. They
could not brook the injustice nnd indignities that were
heaped upon them in their nath·c land, nnd preferred the
wilderness with freedom, to the homes of their fnthers ac·
companied by mental bondage and degraclntion. It wu
Sclf-Estccnt tltnt uchieved your itulepcndcncl'. You owe it
much ; but toke care thnt it bccomn not excessive. You
have no hereditary aristocracy; ·each mnn feels his weight
as an influencer of public nffitirs ; and you mny become
so enamoured of your own importance, as to forget that
you need improvement ;-Jil<e the man of great talent, men·
tioned by l\lndnme de Stnel, who, instead of making him·
11elf useful, spent his time in admiring the mnrvellou' sun1
of his· own attainments. The stock of useful and refin~d
kuowledgc nnd of solid moral nnd religious qunlitie!', which
you, as u people, pussess, constitutes your real excellence ;
but Self-Esteem does not measure itself by these. It mea-
sures itself by itself, nnd it is often most ltigbly gratified
when these nrc very greatly deficient. Youshould guard your
children against illusions of this faculty and teach them to
estimate themselvcf; by the real stnndard of positive attain·
mente.
~n this.country your institutions cultivate Love orAppro·
~nhon Wtth extraordinary force. Before a man e11n wield
m~ucn~e, acquire distinction, or riPe in the l!cale of social
cstmlntl~n, he must be popular; and no man ean acquire
populartty by the fearless manifeatation of his moral senti·
31
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
36'J SUPEIUORITY or THE UNITED 8T.\TES GOVERNMEfo.'T,
1ncnts and intellect, because the people are not nlwnys cnhu,
wiac, intelligent mad virtuous, nnd they rnrely gh·e their
yoice• to those who tell them that they nrc in the wro.ng.-
Your institutions offer n ~troug intluecrncut, therefore, t('
public men to substitute·Rnttery fi.1r truth, in their addresses
to the people. h has struck me tlmt morn) conrnge, or that
high minded independence which scclu1 the true and the
useful nt t\ll hnznrd11, nndrclic~1.1 on the right for vindicating
itself and for anstnining its ndvocntes through nll perils, is
not so nbundnnt in this country ns its wcllitrc tlemnnds.-
Ench mnn ia nfrnid of stct•vin~ fi.,rwcml to press nuy uu·
populnr mensurc, Jest be should hurt the Self-Esteem of
othert~, nnd should himself lose popnlnrity. If this he so,
the mind is in ct grcmt mcnsurc bound ht•rc, ns in de11potic
countrict~. Tho grent tendency of Sdf-Esteem nnd Love
of AJl)lrohnticn, when undirected by the higher t~entimcnts,
would be to obtnin plnce nllll populnrity by fuwning upon
and flt\ttering the p.eople, nml pnmtwriug their prejudi·
ces. 1'he mornl sentiments woulcl lend men to ~cek the
l1ighest iut('rcst of the people, hy rni:'ing thdr chnructer,
even if they hnd to prct~s upon their nttcntion unpnlntnblc
truths. 1,he tlistincticm is well worthy of rcmt•mbruncc. ·
Tlte grent superiority of your institutions, then, nppenrs
to me to eonsittt in their permitting the fullest nctivity of nll
the fnculties ; nne\ the duty of every citi1.en is liO to mani-
fest them in his public and tnivnte deportment, tbnt ench
power t~hnll piny grnccfully nncl happily within the sphere
of ita~ legitimate· action. It hns been snid snreusticnlly of
your people thnt they con~idcr thcmselvt.·s so free ns to be
independent even of the unturnl 11\\n:. Every man who
c.loes not recognize nn ohligntion on himself, imposed by
the Jaw of God, to net nobly, honourably, nnd rationally
in proportion to his freedom from human tyranny, has not
yet formed a conception of the first element of Jiberty.-
Waahington told you that, by nn eternal de~ree of Provi·
dence, bappineea ean exiat only in tbe proportion in which
YlRTUE THB RESULT OF PROPER TR.UNI~G. 363
Yirtue is practised, nud. his whole life was a commentary
on this precept. Phrenology lends us to the tmmc conclu·
sion. Virtue cnnnot be learned by listening to precepts ; it
requires n field of nction; and yourinstitutions nrc invnlun·
ble ns nffording the widest nnd freest field fi,r \·irtuous nc·
tion ever enjoyed by nny pcotlle in the worltl. All history
affords exnmplcs thnt action is the only mode by which vir·
tuous luibits can bl' formed. \Ye sec thut, during the
French Revolution, blood nnd rn;line stalkctl through the
country. And why t Clcnrly bccnuse under the anci~lt
regime, the mornInnd intcllcchml filcnhies of the untion hnd
been denied nlllegitimntc t~phcre nf nction, they were dor·
mnnt nnd their organs feeble. When the people bun5t sud·
denly with freedom, n vnst impul~c wns gh·cn to all their
fncultic~. 'l'hdr nnimnl propensities took the lcml, ns they
alwny.:: do when they have not been trained, ill actio11, to
obey tht• higher powers, and every crime thnt cuuld degrade
nntl 1lisgrnce our nature wn:0; committctl. This point is well
illul'trated, too, by the conduct of the mini:1tas of the
Scotch Church. This Church is n republic, the mini$ters
in gencrnl nssembly forming the legislature. Now ench
mini$tcr is, in his own parish, trcnted with the grt't\test d\!•
fcrcncc, and is quitl! unn~ed to contrmliction. lie ia nut
tried by exciting cnu!'cs npplicd tn his lo\\"cr propensities ;
and his mornI sentimentsnrc, therefore, not tmincd to rcstrnin
and direct them, when excitc1l by external provocations.
\Vhen the Synod meets, the1 members seem to expect that
the snme deference slmll be paid to their opinions there na
nt home; and when the correctness of their nrgumenta or
sentiments is doubted, or they meet with contradiction, the
most stormy and nbusive t'Cenes ensue, utterly nstonishing
not only to the people, but even to the ministers themselves.
To such an extent is thit~ cnrrit•d, thnt Dr. Andre\v Thom-
son, one of its most distinguished membena. designated the
Scotch. Synod ns the most unprincipled assembly in Eu-
rope. Regnrd your Institutions, then, ns a great field for
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
NI0&81UTY OP A TRO£ :"11ENTAI. rUII.OSUru~.
t'nining the propensities of your pcnplc to obey tho gui-
dance of the mornl nnd intellcctnnl pmver11, nml you \V.ill
not only rcnp a rich rewnrd of prosperity uml hnppinet~~,
but cheer tho soul of ~very friend of frel·c.lom nil over the
world. Every outrn~e conunju~cl hero ngnin~t t~ocinl or-
.der, every infringement of jut~ticc, every low nt~d clc•grc•tling
·habit that can b~ )1\ic.l to your clmrgc, is bnlm to the souls
of dte despots of Europe; tho nccounts of nil your errors
nnd mil'doede, nucl imperfections nro filithfully trnnsfcrretl
·into every chronicle under tho dct'pot's I!Wny, emu the filce
:nf freedom itJ thro\•gh you, rt•prc~srntcd, to the enthrnllcd
alnvcs, us hideous tUul ven~c:ful. 'Vhilc the clcsput rrjoiccl',
tho J•hiinnthropiMt hnnKs his hcml in sorrow nncl in t~hl\me.
Reverse tho picture ; t~how honour, . justice, religion, phi·
lnnthropy, triumphant in your public nnd private chnmcter,
nnd you will ring the knell of despotism in every elime.-
This is no theory. I wc\s told in Viennn, by a person high
inthe Imperial service, thot the knowlcdgl! ofyour prospc•·ity
nnd thnt of }i'rnncc nnd England, wns silently nlleeting the
minds of the middling classes in the Au:Jtrinn towns with
discontent. 'l'hnt discontent, if you do your duty to Libcr-·
ty, will ripen into nn irresistible resolve to be free. ·
The next question is.,...Jn what wny mny the best nctiv·
ity ·or the fncultics be promoted t-nnd whnt kind o( edn·
cation is most rotionnl t Thnt to nnswer this, n true
exposition of the mental con~titution of man is necelsnry,
cannot be doubted; nnd i( Phrenology be not true, where
Jhall thnt expo21iiion be fimnd t Some may answer, com-
mon sense is n sufficient guide. But there is much error
propagated under the ttnnction of what is called common
sense. Bishop Whately hns well exposed it. Ask a soilor
about medical matters, nnd he will tell you that Cor the cure
of disease common sense i~ quite sufficient ; but ask him
whether a man can navigate n ship by common sense, he
will hold you in contempt for the question, and inform you
that eommon sense would ioon send you to the bottom of
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
I
NECESSITY OF .-\ TRUR at&NT.-\L Pllll.OSOrliY, 3(;5
tho sen. Ask n blucksmith whnt prepurntion " }trencher
needs, her will probably tell you, n littlo common l!lcnsc;
but nsk him whether n mnn cnn shoe t\ hor11e by common
·sense: he is nstonitdaccl nt your ignornncl,, mad infurms you
thnt you woulcl soon ~el your bruins kicl\l'd nut fi1r your
nttcmpt. Every mmt, in athort, i"t~ willing to tru1.1t c:mnnon
scnso in whutevcr is not iutimntcly connceh~cl with his own
immcdintc employment; hut in tlmt he sees tho nbt~urclity
or such cloponcltmcc. So in tho lmt~iaiC'!IS of t\1ttcntion:
every mnn thinl(s common sc~nsc nil l'Uiticimat, nncl cnch
cnllt~ his own notions of tho mnttcr common scnt~c. No
ncccl of the philo!'ophy of mincl, tlwy imugino, filr tho
mothc1· nucl t1w tcnch~r; tlmt it~, tlw humnn mine! ctm b~
truincd, in ignoruuce of its truo ~lnturc.
Dut in fitct every mnn, whose business it is to den) with
the humnn mind, 'has n system ofmcntnl philosophy of his
own, nccorcling to which he decides oncl nets. It mny be
n very imperfect l'ystcm; he mny not recognize it ns n -sys·
tem, but fltill it serves him us one, nncl by it he tries whnt·
ever questions mny nrisc in which mcutnl nets or processes
are involved. In this cusc ench mtm, in lack of n t~ttmdnrd
of mental philo:Sophy, ta)(es himsdf ns n staudtud ; but
there cnn be no ngrecment ns to the tnie lUoclc of educn·
tion, until we haven system of mental philosophy on which
aU agree. And I any ngnin, if Phrenology be not that
system, where is it 1 For God's snke mnke it known, for
n system we must hnve. Defore men cnn teach, they muat
know•. There ought to be i!Chooi:S rc.r instructing tenchera;
and of the things tnught, the constitution of mnn should be
considered the most .essential ; but before it can be tnught, ·
it must be known. It mny be said thnt the Leff.alature
could prescribe n t~ystem of instruction for youth which .
ahould come in plnce of n mental philosophy. This it
could do ; but it would doubtlet~s be drawn up in accord·
ance with common Pense. The question is, how wiJleuch
a system agree· with nnture t Each teacher will think hia
31•
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
366 .ON TU& TREATMENT OP TEACHERS,
common sense equal to theirs; nnd thil is the lnst co~ntr.J
in the world in which imlividunlt1nrc likely to be inftuenccd
by mere nuthority. 'fo do ouy guml-to hnvu nny ualiror·
mity, we must pcnetrtlte to the very foundntiont~ of nature;
and it is the benuty of your institutions, that when nature
is recognized, it may instantly be followed. That such o
system is not yet generally acknowledged, is evident from
the vost differences of opinion wlaich exist on the proper
m9(1e of conducting education. Go to Paris, to London,
to New-York, ask nbout any principle of chemistry, and
· JOU will find perfect agreement. True, there nre points
on which chemists·differ; but then such points are a terra
ineognita in which science bas not yet been reached. But
RSk men about education, and you burdly find two to
agree; nor, until we hove a true science of the humnn
mind geo.erally acknowledged, can there be such on agree·
ment ; nor till there is such on agreement, con .there be
any united and well-directed efforts.
Before much improvement can be expected, teachers
must be raised in consideration nod social rank ; and this
cnn be accomplished only by increasing their own valuable
attainments, and by teaching the people to apprt:ciote and
honour such qualities. In my own country, they are now
not genernlly reckoned ns fit companions for gentlemen;
they nre not presented to company. Whence does this
arise 1 From the circumstance, it appears to me, that
their occupation has not beenscientific, but empirical. But
thit must be allowed: If the moo who takes care of our
bodiea is considered equal with the best of us, surely the
man who takes care of tho mind-trains and instructs it,
11hould not be considered as below our compunionship. So
to ·consider him is a relic of barbarism.
· Tbe great importance-of n true philosophy of mind and
ebrreet process of training to the welfaro and proper ad-
ainM.tra&ioo·of your govern.ment is evident from tbia con·
· aideiMion. · The majority of aU the voten in the Uaitecl
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
'
~
I
YOUTJI OP TUB VOTF.RS IN TilE UNITED 8T.\TE8. 3ti7
States ·nrc under thirty-five ycnrs of ngc, nucl this mujo•·ity
dispose:ll of the whole interest~ of thi" grcnt nution. 1'\0\\'
there i11 no country in the world rulctl by men so young,
to inexperienced. Before coming bert.•, I wns tolJ thnt
you nre the most excitable people on earth; nud, since ur-
riving, I think I bnve seen what p1·orcs the assertion to be
true. And tl1il', it nppenrd to me, is the reason: Defore·
thirty-five, all the propensities are in their greatest ncth·ity.
By a ·lnw of our nuture, they nrc fnr more energetic than
nt fifty or sixty ; and, before thirty-fi,·e, life has not been
. long enough to supply the dcficieuces nnd correct the errors
of improper education. Education, then-correct educa-
tion, mornl training, instruction concerning the nature of
man, the true sphere of his faculties, and the consequences
of allowing the propensities to take the rein..,.....instruction
in the nnture of wealth, of government, nnd the true ends
of law, should be carried to their fullest extent, in order
to compensate by education, ns far lUI possible, for the want
of experience. 'l'o place the destinies of a nation in the
hands of men full of young blood without such preparation
is extremely hazardous. ·
There ita. however, one great advantage which you p08-
sess over many other countries, and that is in the number
ofsafety valves through which explosions of public opinion
may tnltc place without endangering your whole in:rtitutions.
li1 Austria the safety valves to opinion are few, and these are
liO loaded by oppressive laws and standing armies thut it is
difficult for nu explosion to take place ; but, should it do so,
it woulll carry ruin nnd desolation in its course. Your
t~ntcty vah·cs are not much Jonded, nod in number they are
wn thou:mnd times ten thousand. An explosion tnkes place,
and passes quickly nway. 'l'he timid bend their ears nod
prognosticate utter destruction : it is because they do not
under:staml .Jour government. Here the excited nnd mis-
f{Uided propensities rage and roar, but its only for a day ;
their fervour it let otr by a thousand outlets, nod reason
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
368 IMPORTANCB OP PEM.U£ EDUC4TION.
and morality speedily resume their sway. Recollect, how-
eYer, that any explosion, though it is fur from destroying
the government, ah~kes credit and leaves a pang. Let
your safety nlves be loaded with knowledge, and you need
not fear the issue.
The first thing, then, that you require, is l\ true phiJoso-
.phy of mind; then teachers well trained and instructed
according to this philosophy, who should be rnnked as high
in public estimation as ·nny class of professional men.
'fhen you require the parents to assist the teachers in their
duties, which may be done in many wuys. And on the
parent!', after aU, two-thirds of all the effect produced de·
pends. As an instance of what mny be done by parents, I
may mention n gentleman of Boston who gives his sons
the shipping list of nn evening, questions them about the
places from which the ships come, gets ·them to point out
. the places on the map, questions them ubout the cllrgo,
where and how manufactured or produced, nnd in this way
he conn'~·cts the instruction of the school with the practical
business'~of life.
Especially would I press upon your attention the import-
once of educating women not merely in embroidery nnd
music, but in a knowledge of things, especially in n }mow-
ledge of the human constitution. Every man must nc·
knowledge that Woman operates on human chnrncter in
the most powerful munner. She works on soil highly sus-
ceptible of impressions. To send her out into society to be
a wife and mother, without one philosophical ideo, appears
to me utterly barbarous and absurd. Irrational as has been
the education of boys, the education of young ladies has
· been and is much more so. Aroused to the importance of
this subject, some institutions hove recently been commen·
· ced providing for their education in n much more ample
JnRnner than heretofore. We hove eatnblished in Edin·
burgh o sort of female college, called " 'l.,he Scottish In~
etitution for the educRtion ofYoung Ladies." The annual
'· o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ON RELIGIOUS DIFFERENCES. 369
-charge of which is twenty guineas ; for this may be·pursued
under the moiSt able profe~sors, a course of study almost
co-extensive with thnt of the Edinburgh College.
The pupils nre for the day under the gencml guarc.lil\n-
ship of the Indy superintendent, to whom iz~ intrusted the
guidance oftheir mornls nnd behaviour. Tbe·followingnre
the brnnches taught in this establishment; Elocution nnd
Composition, History and Geography, 'Vriting, Arithmetic,
nnd Book-keeping; theory of Music and the Piano Forte,
Singing, Dancingand Perspective; Mathematics, Astrono-
my nnd 1\lathematicnl Geography ; Itnlian languagE' and
Literature, Dancing nnd Calisthenics, besides-which there
arc regular courses of Lectures on Natural Philosophy,
Chemistry, Natural History, Geology and 1\lineralogy, os
well ns on Physiology nnd Ancient ond 1\lodern History.
These Lectures nrc delivered by the Collegiate Professor..
You want a true philosophy of mind, to give more per-
manence and uniformity to religious opinions-to teach
you the nature of the instrument by whieh you. rend the
llcripturetl, nnrl the absurdity of nny man assuming infnlli-
bility in the interpretation of mere doctrinul pointtt. In the
old country there is n surprising feeling of insecurity nbout
religion. 'rhey seem to think it n pyramid resting 09 its
apex; nnd you see the bishops nnd pnrsons on one !'ide,
the deacons on another, nnd the lnymen on the third, strnin-
ing themselves to keep it up, all seeming to think tl~ot if
they \vcre to withdraw their support, it would fall into a
thousand pieces. Dut when you t~ee. by menns of Phreno-
logy,thnt religion springs from the humnn faculties ns wheat
·11prings from the soil in which it hns been sown, you per-
ceive religion liltc n pyrnmill on its bnse. You feel the ut-
most confidence thnt it can never be shaken-much leas
overthrown, nnd thnt to attempt its destruction would be
like pushing a~ninst tl~u everlasting rocks. A knowledge
uf the human f.'\culties would tench men thl\t from the dif-
fi!rcnt degrees of development of the various feelings have
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
370 CRIMB NOT INCREAI£D BY EDUCATION.
the varioua aecta arisen. From Veneration arises the ten-
dency to adore ; from Wonder the tendency to dwell on
the. astonishing and supernatural ; from Hope brillinut an·
ticipationa of the future ; from Ideality love of the perfect
and beau.tiful ; from Conscientiousness the Jove ofjuiltice ;
from Benevolence the love of goodness and charity. Now
.religion appears ~o me to be still in the scholastic state ; the
existing interpretations of the scripture have been adopted
in much ignorance both of external nature and the hu~nan
mind. The interpreters have assumed ench his own men-
tal constitution as the 11tandard of nature, and as they have
been variously endowed, they have interpreted the scrip·
turea in such n way ns to grntify their prcdominnting fn·
culties, instead of in accordance with the true philosophy
of man. As·men become more enlightened, they will per-
ceive tlu~t they hnve been contendin~ principally about mi·
nor points. They will learn to distinguish what is essen-
tial from what is unessential. 1'hey will become more
charitable and more united in the bonds of nmity and love,
There is now a state of transition which occ1uJions those
who perceive not the true s.tate of things to feel particular-
ly unensy. They imngine that the ground is passing awny·
from under them. 1\lnny existing interpretations do in·
deed totter ; but let not the most timid feur : these trem-
bJings will merely shal~e off the errors which adhere to ·
Christianity, obstruct its progress, and impair its useful-
. ness.
The enemies of Education say that Crime increases in
proponion ns Education is promoted ; and the ~tatistical re·
turnsseemtofavour theirassertions. Butthey forget that what
is called Education is merely instruction in words or signl'. ·
'fhe instrumcilts of Education hove been put into men's
hands, but they hnve not been educated. They have received
no ·proper instruetion concerning either physical or human
nature, nod hnve not been trained to the practice of good·
• DOlt. . Let the opponents or Education show that Crime bas
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
ON THE TREAT&f£1\'T OF CRIMIN.US. 3iJ
been increased by training the intellectand moral scntimer.ts
to proper activity, and then we will give the matter up.
There is a great difference in the mode of treating crim-
inals in different countriP.s, and itis pleasing to see you take
the lead·in criminal jurisprudence. But to inflict n certain
amount of punishment for n ccrtnio amount of crime feem~
to be the chief resource, after all. In some countries men
are scourged ; here you ·lock them up in cells. The law~
ofall countries prescribe ncertain quantity ofsuffering n~ the-
retribution for a certain extent of crime, without inquiring ·
into the causes of the crime, or the effects of the punisAmenl.
This is )P.gislating for n f1;1ct, nnd not \Vith reference to itt=
cause nod the results ofthe treatment. Phrenology will lend
men to see that crime cannot be prevented till its causes nl"t'
removed ; and that there nre exces~ive or defecti\·e devel-
opments of certain organs in the brain, acting under the
influence of adverse local circumstance$. I have !aid thnt
criminals are scourged and locked up in cells. Now what
effect have these punishments on the mind l Certainly
not the only desirable one, to diminish the activity of the
propensities nnd incrense that of the sentiments. Nay, you
deprive the mnn of nll stimulus, to the moral faculties, le:n-e
him to the constant brooding of revenge, and render him
not a better but n more cunning man. Hard labour, low
diet and silence, have been tried, There is no doubt that
they enfeeble the propensities; but they do so by enfeebling
the whole mind. Now, you want a coune of trentment
\\'hich will enfeeble the propensities, while it strengthens
the moral sentiments. A few years ago trend-mills were
the rage. The Phrenologist, knowing thnt fntiguing the
muscles would neither permanently diminitth the causeil of
crime, the over nctivity of the propensities, nor increase the
nctivity ofthe sentiments, laughed nt the iden. Phrenology
tenches us that \Vith one class of minds we should proceed by
keeping them from nssocintion wltb the degraded and im·
moral, use every means to cultivate the higher t:entimenta.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
87'l ON TI.IB TREATMEN'I' OP Til£ INSANE.
and increase the number of higher minds thnt hold com.
municntion :with them. The lowest class of criminals
ehould be kept in perpetual r~stmint.
The treatment of the insane is a matter of Yast import·
ance. The most aOlicted of tho human rnce, they hnn!
bad their nmictions increased tenfold by the ignorant and
inhuman tr-eatment to which they have· been subjected : ·
small grated cells, and chains, ancl flagellations, and in·
eults, hav:e been their Jot. 1\luch nmeliorntion hns indeed·
token place in many sections, but much remains to be done.
To know the true mode of trcatme.nt, we must unllcrstand
the mind, its mode oC manifestation, nnd ita dcpcndcnCl!
on material organization. And whnt teaches this but
Phrenology! Accordingly, Phrenology has been the grcnt
reformer ofthe treatment oC the insane.
I rend to.dny of n woman in easy circumstances who
land cut her child's throat and then killed herself. 'file
Phrenologist at once recognizes in this ca$1! unequivocal
eYidence of disease. By the t~pread of Phrenology ntteu-
tion will be cnlled to diseased conditions of the brain in
their early manifestations ; and by proper remedial men·
sures they will be arrested in their early staget~. Phrenol·
ogy, too, will ennble men to give rationnJ evidence in courts
on cnecs of insanity, instead of the inconsistent, contradic·
tory nnd obaurd evidence which is now given.
Phrenology hns a great tendency to encourage and givt'
confidence .to tho good. In my own country, meu with u
large.corounl region, rcftectivo fncultics and ideality, shrink
from the turmoil, bustle nnd degrndotion consequent on
becoming a cnndidnto for public office ; and those who are
most eager after distinction ore often found to hove little
except Self-Esteem nnd Love of Approbation to recom·
mend them; their coronal region being often small. They
will eend round their emissaries to learn what opinions or
meaaurcs are popular among the electon, and then come
oat.iu their adYocacy with all their might. The people are
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
WE MUST LOVB OUR N£1GllDOURS .\8 OURSELVES. 373
thus plensed nnd deceived into the election of nn unworthy
man. \Vhen Phrenology shall be well known, the highly
mornl nnd intellectual men will fin~ their plnce, nnd stnkld
. shoulder to shoulder in the grcnt work of human ndvnnce·
ment.
It is a law· of unturc that tbr mornlnllvnnccment to tnke
place we must love our neighbour as ourselves. The con-
dition of cnch influences the happiness of the rest. \Ve
~See this illustrated in the letters of the Secretary to the
Governor of Van Diemnn'~ Lnnd. Tho influence of the
chnructcr of the convicts on the society there is most stri-
king. 'l'hc chnnge is grent even in the most virtuou$. 'l'hu
convict$ havo to be go,·crucd by tho lnsh : in them tho pro-
pensities fcnrt"ully predominate, nml the master:~ nre contin-
unlly harassed nud soured by suspicion nud wntchi•ig. So
in Ireland the great mass ofthe people is in a wrclched.aud
•legrtulcd condition. I hnvc seen their wretchedness aud
its ctli!cts ou the higher clnsscs. In this country, ns in
others, men must h:we their neighbours hnppy that they
mny be happy themselves. For thi~ you shoulct contimmOy
strive ; you cnnnot stnnd still ; you must tulvnnce into tho
region of the sentiments or f:dl back on the propenl5itie$.
Some think you nrc doing the latter-but of this I have
little fear: you nrc the pyramid on its base. I do entreat
of you tu justify this opinion by educating nil your child-
ren in n mtmncr which shall gh·c superiority to th~ i"tullect
mad mornl sentiments. It hns been well ~nill by u gcntlc-
tlcman of Boston, that in America you h•we tukcn every
mnn in .the country into copartnery: it is n copnrtnery
for Jifc-you cannot dissolve it if you would. Among
you cspt~cinlly, then, i!J the hnppiuess nnd welfare of each
linked with the hnppineils und welfnre ofnil. 'l'o elevnte the
character of your whole population should therefore be
your highest nim.
Phrenology, it is stnted, bns been injured by quackery.
If so, it is the fault of those who should have bet!n ita ·
~l
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
3'74 0~ TBJ: OPPOSITION TO PHRBNOLOGY.
worm~Rt supporters. If thrust out of refined society, it must
tnko rcfugn with the humLlo. Aru wo never to ho tnught
by cxpcricnco t Will mch gu on forever trcnting impor·
tl\nt discoveries wilh contumely t 'l,hc clergy lmve been,
strong opponents of Phrenology ; nnd this i11 to be regret-
ted ; but the hi11tory of the world shows that in nll ngcs re-
ligion hus been thrown nt the head of science. They seem
to forget the plnin proposition that whnt docs exist docs ex•
i~tt, nllll cnnnot be overthrown ; thnt God is the nuthor of
nature ns wcll·ns of revelation, mul therefore no wnnt of
hnrmony is po~t~ible; thnt nil truth, in short, is God's truth.
I•'or the clergy, however, I beg lc"''C to llJ)ologize. Princi·
Jlnl Bnird once rcmnrl(cd to me tlmt the clergy stmad in a
pcculinr position-huving their own nr<luous tn:'!<s to per·
form, nnd to dcnl with nil kinds of minds. " All you cnn
expect from us," snid 111~, " i11 thnt we stmul n:>idc till yon
convince the people of the truth of your doctrines," \Ve
tdlOuld be well pk::::"cd if the clergy would fullow this course,
'rhey nrc not cnllcd upon to tnke the lend in every novel
doctrine thnt oppenrs; but what I complain of is, thnt
mnny of them_, in profound ignorance of the nnture, merits
''"d evidence of Phrenology, throw the whole weight ol
tl1cir individual nnd professional character into the scale
ng~tinst it, and imbue many excellent minds with the worst
prejudices rcgnrding its consequences. If Phrenology be
true it is God's truth, nnd to cnlumninte it, in His nnme, is
to commit trensou nrrninst God nnd nrrninst God'11 people.
o n .
It is clothing huinnn pride, sloth, ignorance nnd folly with
the sanctity which belongs only to the everlasting truth.-
lt is employing the Crontor's nnmc to scnrc nwuy his pco·
pie from f1Xnmining his works. It is strengthening the
hands of the Infidel; becnu&e in due senson, the truth will
force its wny to universal acceptntiob nnd the Infidel will
).ben turn round and eny, "These men cannot be the true
anterpretere of God's will, ·bocnuso they have not recog·
nmed God'• works whon preaentod before them but hliYe
• Digitized by Google
ON TUE OPPOSITION TO PHRENOLOGY. 375
cnlumninted nnd repelled it." If Phrcnolo~y bo fnlso they
nrc right ; but I c.Jcclnro to you with n l)lll con~cinusncss t'f
the rcllpnnllibility which 1 incur, thllt I hm·c uc\·cr llccn
more futile, dit~iugcnuou~, nnc.J tHscrc(titnblc oltiection!l ; ob-
jections more destitute of truth, honettty, mul renson tluua
thol'le whid1 luwc proceeded from mnny of tho religious
}lUblicutiou:~ of my own countrynnd from meu pretending
to the religions clmrncter. You ·cnn judge better thnn 1
cnn do, wlacthc1· n l!imilna· or 11 better spirit reigns nmoug
religious pcr:mlhJ here. I .
Phrenology is now extensively belic\·cd in Englund, t\IIU .
would ha,·c met with n mtJch better reception nt fir$t1 htu.l
it not unfi1rtunntcly fi\llen into the haml~ of profcs~nr:J nnd
rc,·iewers of second or third rntc tnlents, who, stnrtlt•d by
its novdty and incnpnble of comprehending its nature or
e\·itl~ncc, puured li>rth torrents of nbuso nnd mi~rcprcl!t:nta­
tiot~, which imbu•·,J the public mind, then enJoying no other
lllt:a:t3 nf infl)rmation, with the worst }>rt'jltdices ngnin~t ir.
Physicians tu;;l ministers should both· strive to compcusnte
for the returdntion they hn,·e cnu.;~ell. Let the former re-
collect that Phrenvlo~y constitutes the nohle~t branch of
J>hysiology, nnd the lntter that there cannot be two God:t,
a God of nnturc uud a God of revelation. To those who,
being com·inced of the truths of Phrt:uology, ncknowlctlgu
and ndvocntc them with nst"itluity, rel!nrdlestl of the prt>ju-
diccs thnt nrc nrrnyed ngainst them, I offer the humble tri-
bute of my praise. Yerily they shall hn,·e their reward.
~Vitia gratitude fi>r the great ntteution you have pnid tt•
my obst!rmtions throu~hout the cour$e, with the hope thnt
my humble effort~, of the imperfections of which I nm ·
deeply sensible, mny he of some service, nnd with a sin·
cere desire for your welfi\re, I bid you adieu.
TUE END.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
0 • • • ~
..
> \
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
APPENDIX.
CAll' TB& II&KTAL CHARACTER BE ACCIIR.\"U:LY i:~Tir.I.\T£1:' Fii.Oii& .
E.XTEil!UL Dl:VELOP~tt.:n!
Hz who ha:~ followed the gifted lt!Ctnrer through hi:t entire courtoe. ,
will aclmowlctlgc that t'.lc extent to which phrcnolo~y enables liS to
ascertain individual character from external 11i~n;c, eun~titutes n \·ery
small part only of its ut.ility. Iutlr.cd, the rliagnostic 1neans which phre-
nology nlfonl;c, hn,·c, I think, been mu('h o\·ermted nnd thru!'t forward
into nnml!riterl prominence. It m:ty be n:tcful. therefore, to correct thr
erroneous imprc~sions tlms produced, and to define the limitations pre·
sr.ribcd, as well by the prt',oent st."lte ofour knowledge as by the n:~.ture
of things.
I remark, in the fiut place, that we are acq•iainted with thirty-.i&
only of the mental lhcnlties, but be~ides these there are others, with the
nature nnd qnalitiP.s of which we nrc unacquainted. The impossibility,
ofnqcertaiuiu; t:1e precise nntlm~ ofa compound, in ignorance of some
of its elementary con:~titncnts, is perfectly ohvionil. Setting ntoide, how-
ever, thi" decided n('gativc to the leading qn(':~tion, let us proceed at
though we were acquainted with nllthe mental fa<'nltil'!l, and wilh the
external t~ign!l ofall. \Vhat in thnt cnsc would bo the nnawcr1
To judge ofch;uactcr hy de,·clopmcnt it is nccct~Snry
1. To oscertnin in the gi,·en individual the relative size ofeach orpo
u a guide to its relati,·e power.
2. To estimate the mutual iuOuence of the organs and the combiu-
tioDI into \vhich they would be most likely to enter.
::S. To estimate the general coolltitutional aecivity or temperameD&oC
the individual examined. •· '
32•
Dig' ized by GoogIe
378 APPENDIX.
; AU·the18 thinge are difficult ofaccurate accompliehment, but present
no i~1surtr.ountable obstacle11 to knowledge, care, 1:11:perience and good
cerebral organization.
Be i\ remembered however, that character depends on the mutual
operationoforganizationandexternal inftueuces, and that of thelatterthe
org:mizntionpresents noe:r:ln'nal !ign. To elucidate this important prin-
c:ipll', some acquaintance with physi·ological laws is indispcnsible. Let
Jn,J observ'l then that eac11 organ of the body i,. endowed, by mean!! or
its nervous matter, with a peculiar sensibility or a power of perceiving
its peculiar stimulus, thus the eye has the power of perceiving light and
light only; the ear, of perceiving sound and sound only. Bnt the ac-
tual perception, depends, in C\"tlry in~tance, on the stimulnil heing pre-
ICnted. \Vithoiat light, tlieeye's ca1Jacity wonld be nndo!\·cloped; jn11t :u
.u withoo~t the eye, light would btl llllllt•rccived. The ,;amo is tnae of
the cerebral orgn•is. ThP. activity of an organ depend!!, 1st, on it~ pow-
er of perception, 2d, on the presentation of whatever it is adapted to
perceive. Thus, the organ of Colour is sensible to colour and to
colour only, and the organ of 1-'orm to configuration and that only; with·
ont the organ, colmir would be nnperceh·ed, nnd without colour the
• orgim's {lower wonld remain un.developed and conileqnently unknown.
, .
B.ut not only does the Qctivity of an organ depend on the pre~entn·
tion of-its opprGprinte Htimnlns, hut ihll dtgru of its aclirJily Jepcndll
greatly upon the a111omll or intc11sity of the 11tiumlus presented. 1'herc
ia ap invarinble correllation hctwcen the nppeal nml the response: thu~
though a \·igorons eye can s•Jc better by a fitiut light thnn can a feebll'
one, it is nevertheless true thnt a feeble eye can 11ec better by daylight
than a vigorous one by moonlight. So ofthe Cl.'rebral organs two lUay
be alike iu constitutionnl- power and activity, yet one be manifested in
the character much more strongly thou the other, owi11g to the different
ttrength of the exciting causes to which they arc severally apposed·
Now of tho dilfcrent external inftuenceta to which the faculties are snb·
jccted '" ha.,e not, and nel'tr cnn l&ar:c, tmy orgtmit: sign1. Fnltte nnd
millchievous, then, nre the pretensiou11 of those who ~crt that they enn
RICertain character correctly by the organization alone.
Dut still fnrther,many conditions of the organization itselfare not imli·
cntcd by exttrnal signa, as will presently nppcnr.
De it ever rc1nembcred thoJ the bruin is a part of the living organized
body, and like all other parts ie subject to certain general phyHiological
laws. Liko them it ia nouriahed, grows, decay• and perishes. Like
them it may be rendered inert, languid, feeble nnd irregular, by disease
or ineuflicien~ food •r exerciae. Like them, too, it may bo etimulated to
unwonted energy, or, bJ judicious exorciae, be increued in eize or in
aptitude, facility, 'riaourand certainty of action. Leavins·out orview,
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
APPENDIX. 379
however, all other t'onsidcrationa, I will now d\veU on the effects of
training or dil!Cipline alone.
'l'he cere'>ral like all other organs, may be diminished in .iz.e by the
withholding of their appropriate excitant", thnt is by being kept in a
state of inactivity, and they may be increased in 11ize by acti\·e and judi-
cion~ truuung. flrlt, nad mark tl.ic:, t!tongh the increase or diminution
tnuy be tJisible atcrnully, it mny tie! be. The former will happ~n when
the or~:m'l cnhrgc llimultancou~ly, or when none dimini~h in size hut
some increase. 'l'he latter will take place when some itJcrcase~ual some
diminish sia•mltaneon"ly, for a>~ nil the cerebral organs nre nnited in one
1111!85 ofyielding consistency, it is quite pos~iblc for e\·en c;ou!lidt:rable
change~ to bo produced unattended by any alteration in the cranium,
one organ occupying t'lomcwhat 1
..~~ 11pace, and another flonacwhnt more
than in tb-;;ir previous condition. I think it not imrrobnble thnt changea
may be thus contiunnlly going Otl which being conlinecl to the interior
of the cranium, are not indicflted ezlcrl/ttlly.
Dutjudiciona training may, and in adult nge generally doc,., increa1e
the compactness, strength and tone, ofan orgau'.i fihres, it5 aptitude for
ready, certain and ener~etic action, its practi<:al etficiency. without in-
crca!'ing its t~ize. Now the organ~ ofthe br.1in ore distinct though cor-
reBated parts, and nmy to :1 great extent he ~eparately trained. lienee
it follows, as a matter of conr~e, that on two organ:~ of like relath·e 11iz.e
nnd con!ltitntional acti\'ity, being !'nbjccted at agh·en time toequally Jl'l'""
crfnl exciting can11cs, tho one, o~eiug to tli.ffcrcllu oj training, may act with
ea~e, energy :md correctues:t, and the other with dilliculty. fecbiP.uess
and uncertainty. Even if we ndauit then, that Phret1olo~y furni~het tts
with external ~ign!l of uu orgau':t cap11city ofbeing trained, we mu~t allow
that nf :m orguu'!l actual stlltc of tliscipline. of tt" prcse11t t.fficiext pot«r, il
aff.mls tu 110 crattilll i/lllittrliuns tchatrrer.
Agnin, m:my phrenologi!'t~ !<peak of the diffirent fllalitln of various
hraintc, tim!.' the bruin" of 8yron und Sir \\'alter Scott, are !'aid to ba\·e
heen of fine quality, and this i~ !<tatcd hy ::\lr. Jonc!l, for inl'tance in hi...
"Practical Phrenology," (J,. 21·1,) to he "a ditfcrout conl'!itlcrntiou'' to
temperament. Of thi~ ditlcrcuce of quality thcrt is no tctll tiS«rtaixcd
Ult:Tilfll 11ig11S.
Again, there is n quality called by ::\lr. Combe rttttltircncll of Dlf'tllO·
ry, (see page :l~H) wh¥:h diller;~ greatly in ditlerent indi,·itlnnllf. For this
quality tee /mre tiO e:r.tcrnnl l'ign.
But still liuther the brain, ns l\lr. Comhe explaiuetl in his third lecture,
is composed of two IIUU:<taucctc, 1111 external or cincritiono~, oncl nn intt'l"-
nnl or medullary. Facts have been lately obllerved which give grellt
probability to n doctrine long ago llttnuiscd, that the intcrnnl portion is
merely the conveyor, while.the external is the recipient ofeen$1\liOD, and
the acnerator of action. That the cineritioua portion of the br.Un u
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
380 APPt;NDIX.
In reality the organ of mind; and thon~th we may conclude • priori that
there will be nn intimate corrP.spondence between lhe generator and
tranamitter of mental action; it is imlubitoble that lhe thicknesa.of the
cineritiolll' matter ditft!r:l greatly 1n ditfere•tt brains of the eame gene·
raJ bulk. Of this dift'~rencc ·we laare ftot, 4M it Neml impoui/U tlaat 1011
'""ltould hau, any r:rte-inal irtdictdions.
Bnt while I would Cll!lt from phrenology all false prcteneions, I would
~ttA.•ndfu!ltly maintain the real supr.riority which it confers. Tho orgaui·
~·..•. :11!'1 of un individ"nal, os fur"" it t'•lll be known, nnd external influences
being gh·en, we can 11olve the qHe11tion of humnn chnracter, not inclccd
with precise, hut with approximating nt>cnracy. The non·tthrenologist
cannot commence the solution. Give him the external circnm:~tances,
ignorant 011 he is of organization, he conhl have not the slitchtest reason
for 1tating whether the individual would prove a Byng, or a Nelson, a
Burr, or Q \Vnt~hington, on image-maker or 0 Canova, a no!ltrUIII vender
or a Hunter, a t<treet brawler or a Uurke. They would not have been
able like Gall, to forfJtell, from nn examination of their re~pcctivn orgoni·
utionll nnd pursnil'l, the n!ltoni~hing s•1pcriority which Napoleon would
manifest over tho Austrian Gem•ral!l, in the wars of ltnly.
Ifan organ be· very deficient in size, no amount of the most judicioth>
training can makt! it display great energy, and when the phrenologi11t
observes such on organ he can !I:IY with tho most perfect confidence,"
and·without reference to previous training or external inlluence11, that
in e.." action" for which ito~ energetic play is rnqnisitc, the indi\·i!lual will
m1mife11t feehleneB:J or inefficiency. If an organ, on the contrary, great·
11 predominntc, it liungcr.s, ns it were, for ttimuht!l, and re>~punds to it
when pres.Jnted, with such vi;rorous, rapid and pleasurahlo energy, u
d~po~~es the iudividnnl to indulge it. The tclttlt!ncy of f.IIICh an organ
is, therefore, to overrow~r tht! apllenls ofthe Wtmker organ~. or to bring
them into 1111b~ervient activity,and though jutliciou,; tr.1ining may greatly
modify this tendency, the org.m wil111till exNtnttowerf'nl inllut!nce over
lho character, and thi11 thll phrunologi>~t cnn st;ltc without tho l!lightt!st
feftr of mi11tnke.
Starting from oxtremes, both n" reg:ml:l the ditltinct organ>~ on1J the
regionf.l, we proceed to ht!adl! in which they nre more und more C•lunlly
developet!, till we arrive ut 11uch as that of l\lnltwell, in which they ore
ao equably poiet!d, that from the organizntion alone the phrenologist
can iul~r nothing with ct!rtainty, except that the chnracter of its pos··
aeunr is IIWnyed hy extcrual circumstances. Placed amid el~vnting
and refining influence11, whcrtl Cnn,ocientiou~tne!lll, Venorntima, Dcuevo·
lencu, Jduulity and the other IIIIJierior sentiments ure highly atimulated,
and tho propeneitie11 have v.irtnou11 menu11 of gn•tilicotiou, he muy sua·
lain a repntution for J1_111tice, BIUttlvolence, and Piety; lllfrounded by
obo:olioua iuftllencea, in wlucb the bigb~r aenlianenlll have liule or no
o, •izedbyGoogle
APPENDIX. 3Sl
· externru etimuli, but Acquisitiveness, Secretiveneu, Dcstructiveneu.
snd tho lower propensities generally, are highly stimulated, he may be ra
debauchee, n robber, or n murderer, whose end is the felon's cell or the
scalfold.
\\'c arc now tncp:ued to pass judgment on certain practices pre,·n-
lcnt ia society. It i!l well known that persons calling them~elves "prac-
tir.al phrr.nolo;!i~tq," ha,·c li1r year!! hccn pP.ripitnting through this aud
oth!'r conntrie~<, ns.«crting and pnblillhing their aiJility to ascertain chu-
ncter IJy cereiJml dc,·clopment alone, and their rcndine~ to do 110 fur
''"Y one who would pay them a certain fee. 'Sorne of thc11e ha\"e l~n
1111!11 ulmo~t dt•stitnte both of kuowlr•dge and experience, such. ure be-
neath rl!"pcctful remonstrance, they arP. swindlers and they know that
·they nrP. swindler:J, mP.riting whate\"er punishment may be due to tho!<"
who obtain money under false pretence!~. But some good phrenologist:~
iiCCIII to have d•JCeived themselves iUtO the beliefthat they really po!l......_"$5
this power. I think I ha\"e clearly shown howe\"er, that whoe,·er 8$!'erts
th:tt he has it, affirms that which, in no case, is ubsolutely true, and which,
in many cases, j,. nbsolntcly fitlse, and I deennhc con5idcrations wliich
l have pre~cnted sufficient to prO\'e that promi~~euothl head-examining, ns
now t•r:...oli~"''l, ;_, nn n,..,..nr.~tinn ,vJ-i,.h nn l•nnn•ah1P nntl r.nn..t":iPntinn~
man should persist in, for while it may onen set the ignorant agape at
the accuracy with which some prominrmt trait of11 well marked chnra'C·
lcr is n11nounced, it make~ the enlightened phrenologist grie,·e O\"Cr th·~
ahn$C and degradation of his science, and gh·es connlt•nauce to the fahc
and banefnl imprct>sion that phrenology is akin tojuggling ~tnd palmi!ltry.
In the forl'goiug oiJservationll, be it remarked, there is nothing con-
dcumatory of private cxamiuMions, for the sake of information or JUU·
tnal in~trnctiou. There iii nothing, indeed, which would militilte agaiu~t
grntleme11 ofexten,.ive knowll'dgc and experience, gootl jndpnent and·
high moral fe!'ling, devoting them;:eh·ell. nuder proper re;;trir.tious. to
prnctical phrenology a" a business, pro,·ided that they state fully, in e\·c-
1)" c;l.ic, the ulu~crtaintie" which may exist. Tht.ly might be of gre:lt
servir.t.! hy cla~~ifying criminals an.t snperintendiJJg their moral training;
by aiding in tho moral treatment of tho insane, by pointing out :my
strikingly deficient or prednmiuant organ in childn•u, aud laying down
a cour:~e of procedure fur impro,·ing tho organization, and c\·cn by a•
sisting adults in their clforl~ for self knowledge. Out it would doubtle!'lJ
be fur better that tcachero~ aud the snperintc11dnnts ofprisousaud iusane -
asylums, tohoultl be able phrenologisL~, thnu that •• Practical Phrenolo-
gy" 11honhl be rcnder.:!d a di~tiuct profe~~ion.
t have heard it stated in f.mmr of promi,;cuous nlul indiscriminate·
" hend·re1uling," that many haYe bf'ell "con\'f'rte1l" to phrenology, by
hning their head:~ "rend." Lea,·ing out of the questiou the greater
numbers who havo been di~guated by it, I reply that if thi• be 110, tlt\:ir
D1
git1
zed by Coogle
APPENDIX.
belief bu.ea UpOII liUCh gronnd11, though ofno aervieo to themse)vea, may
p0111ibly bo aervteal.le to phrenology, if something aiTccting it ahould
h&Ye to bo decided by nultlorieal foreo, but not till then. Such belie·
fen oro obviously of tho uumbor of those who ob110rve and reneon by
proxy.
Derorn I!Cnding this note to pren I received tho August No. of the
American Phr"nological Journul, in which is an admirnblo Essay by Dr.
Caldwell, containing these words: " It need hnrdly be added, that a prne-
tic:ed and skilful phrenologist, finds no difficulty in uscertaining, with
aullicicut accuracy, tho t0114paratitXJ aiu oftbo dift'ereut compartment"
of tho bruin in the lo11nd he ex:uniues. In his eiTol'ttl, tlttrifore, to decy·
pher charncter, h" may be altDtiJI awcusflll." Thi$ opinion cnuiiCd mo
lo rocouaider tho foregoing romnrka, but fin~ng in tbo etnlemontll ~d
rouoninga nothing which I d&f'tuod incorr.:ct, I think it my duty to
publilh them, and iDdtled tho more eo, on accoullt of the vicwe lwld by
.one who atanda 10 deaervedly bigh u a phrenologi11t, appearing to me
........
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
INDEX.
Abercrombie, nr., 118•
.\ropll~lll\'1'110~~. 1!3, 166, 17~. 3lil).
.\clu it_r of the facultic~, !l7, Ill. ·~fo,\n
of, !J,';", !.!:01. Vl'mn~c•l, 310. Encll·
•i'"~'• 3~;. How to llimini>h the, 330.
Virtuou~. thr S•>!lrce of bappinl's~.
:1:,1. In .\n<tria, 3ll. In Pru~!Oi''• 3511.
In C:rcat llrit.tin, 3l7. In tho Unite.!
Stnh·~. 3611. In wh:lt w:.y promoted,
3111. On whnt llopcndant, 3i7.
.\<'tors, lli.'l, !,!·~•
. \ll~~on,,n, <l'l->11\tlon front, 1:1!1.
A<lht•>l\"cnc•~. li:t, IN.
.\•h·i<"•• to in'l"c~t i~atnrs, 42.
.\l{n, inllnonro of, 10-1.
· .\ ~··•ihus. 11nccdote of, 31.
.\If, 3Jti, :I·U~.
.\kcnsid••. •tuolntlnu from. ~Ill.
Alhertu~ 1\1:\:;uus, •t~.
.\limcnth•ent!SS, 161.
.\l~<'hr:., 21~. 2~~­
Amuti\·,·n··-~. ·Ill, 63, 13tl.
.\mcri•·an l'hr!'noJ,•gical Journal, 70.
.\ mphthi.>ns 1\llllllab, :.17.
.\lJHIII'llll'lll~, 2~0.
.\na'·"'•'Y• 1~0; and Physloh>gy, 3·19.
.\ll!;!Cio, Mlchat>l, 23.
An~lro-S~t~nn~, 1(.:1. ·
.\tum:ll:l oh:ll'fi"O tho l~~ows of h('alth, 313.
.\mnl• of rtm.mlllo~:v. ~\).
.\nti-phrl'tll>lngl$tl. \117.
.\Utl', ~~.
'•"'· l':lf\_1~1.
.\r•lhlllll,l'll~ht~• Ent~rtftlnmonlll, ·lll.
.\r\'lu•ry, t~tl.
•\rdllnt ~J>Irit~, 00.
.\ rln~tn, !ltlll,
.\n~t.,.,r;~ry, :1:'17.
•\n"tutollan plulnsophy, IS, Ill.
Arlatn\1!' 4\1, "·
Arlthm~>t\o, lola, !HI.
Arnon, OS. .
Arropnce, lTO.
Artist~, IM, !193.
A~s. ant'cdohl of, ~·13.
Ath<'i~ts, 121.
Alludunont for Hro~, tl4, I iS.
Audubon, tho ornithul· lgi~t, 23\1.
Au.;Irian go1·enummt, ~. 3:14.
Dahoon, 153.
llacchu~. •11-
lla.:on::.n l'hilo~nrhy, 17.
Jl:~c•"'· l.nrd, lti, ~0, 5~, t:ti,IG'$, f.ll, 190.
n....,,n, H··~·•r, :l\1.
ll:.tnl, 11lllll"ip.•l, 3~4.
ltar<'lay, llr:, IJII, IH, 171•
n..rll'~ t'pit:tt•h. :l\11•.
lh-:wer, thf', Ja.
ll•••hlvt•s, llr., 31~.
ll!.!<lforll, IU.v. Mr., ~•
Jt.,c~, 2~, h•.\. ~H. 3~~-
llt'll, Dr. John. 7:!, 3;!1}•
llclhngham, I!IIi, 2011•
Ilcnc\"oll'nct', 1)3, 1", IS!)
llil'llllt,H,-1~.!111.
lh·lo!t•r, <lt'on:•·· th!' calculator, tU, N~•
ll:•l•llt.', Mr. Ntclrola.•, ltl•
Hit... :m. ·
llllu•u:~ temporamt.'nl, US.
IIi'''·!II•
lhn!s, ~~. 2\l, IOi, !U, 312.
11\nl"l,wO<>II'~ :\h~tll"linc, MI•
JllilttiJ>t'l'Mil~, 'lJ~.
lllo•m!, 31:1, Sill, 3111,
lllllllh'nh•u·h, ~. ~ '"· 13.\
Jlll:ll",\'11•
llo>..rh:w(', -1!1•
llutl<•:tn,l!'.l'l•
ll.•n:tl"'~''"• Ill.
llllll<'~. ICltl, 3111, 3tl.
lt.•nnl't,-1!1.
lluhmy, uo, m.
llt>miiR•tJ, on J•hmnnl<'IJ1 liT,
lloyM, l!V, 13..'1, 144,113.
Dn<lley,l>r., N.
o;9,tized by Google
384 INDEX.
Dr:tiR, 118, IIll. Oplnluna of, 47. Func·l Cocks, 148.
tiuu• of, M. Organ of mlud, 0~1 3:W. Colburn, Zerah, !~1SM.
P·•rttlar notiC!nS concerning, IJI'I, A Cohl, effects of, U4.
cuugo.-ics of organs, lUll. Anatoml Colo.-idgo, 287.
•>f. 1~1. F,>rm of, I'll. Formation o Culm;m, iv.
I:II. Str>acture of, IU. Generator uf Colmar, 63, 237.
ll<'r\'nu• r.ncrgy, 310. Colourt••lll~ylum of New·York, 1111.
llravoca, 1-1~. Cohuul111~, 2-
12.
!1;-r~th, 317. t~omhati\·cnc~s. 6:1, 148, u~.
llnli•h, 178, 2Gl. t:ombo, l>r., 6·1, 1f1~, ~7.
flr•>u~h":'"• 11:1, '.!117. Cmnho, !\Jr. Gl'orgo, lii.z..v, ~lJ4, 91, 911,
Urou•saa~. on phrenology, 87. 1:10, 211J, 2i3, :IW, .,o, ~. Leuer
llrnwn, llr. ThomaM, Jolt!, !lfl3, Ill, 11011. frnon, v. ,
IJeown, Mr., on language, 202. Combinations, 200, liU.
Druce, Kinr Robert, Ill, 140, l87, 105, Commissions, 67, 127.
203. Common sense, 103, 290, 364.
Brunell, 173, 23$, 167. Comran~on, 63, 263.
Bull, the, 2'.1. Concentrati\·eness, 121, 128, 143.
Bull-dog~, l$1. Conception, 284. 2tl8.
Bully, lt!'l. Conolley, Dr., Ill, 110, 124.
Bump, on the uso of the term, 13t. Con•ri<'nliousnl'•~. 121, 203.
Burke, Edmund1 266, m, 107. Consciousncso, 116, 271. Dtlnble, ~-
Durko, tho murclf!rer, 1~. Con5!ancr, 2ll'l. ·
Burmese, 3().1. Conslrnrti\•cnc•s, 63, 171.
Burns Robert, 31, Ill, 141, 147,100. Contractility, 310.
Byron, 1$7, 2-J.l, ~Ill. - Consumption, 333.
· Convolutions, 124, 12~, 127.
Cahinet·makeJ~. 174. Cook, Captain, 172, 21:1, 242.
Cat.lwell, Dr., 19, LO, 70, ~- Copernicus, 20.
e:unrcr, ~. 13:1. cordonnicr, Fran~ls, 176, ft4.
Canova, 172, 21'!! 22-1, !ltG. 161, 1113. Corpora Oli,•arla, 128, 129.
Capon, Mr., 62, 70. Corpora P)·ramidalia, 1~.
C!!orbonlc acid gas, 317, Corpora Quadri~•·mlna, 237.
Carmichael, Mr., 70. Corpora Re~tiformla, 128, 120.
CamlvoroiiA animals, 1'3, 107. Corpus Callo~um, 127.
Castor nnd l'nllnx, 146. t:t>smn~ hHlnpleust~e, 14.
l;at, 'l!l, 111!1, 1211, 116, U.:t, 170, 103, ll1·l. l'nnra•:.,, 1-1~.
Cau~alily, 211S. r.owpt•r, 177.
Cautiou~no~s, 63, 112. ('ow~. 31.
Cerebellum, 12$, 12::1. Combe on the, U. t:ox, :\lr., 7$.
e;e,·anteA, 2'22. rrai~, Mr., 118.
Corlonc~o, 1·111. Crampton, on pbrenoloi'Y• 84.
Chalmers, 131, 160, 217, W, 10:1, liM, C:rnniololo!y, 62.
~~ r~~~~
Chambers, 011 phrcnolo&"Y, 81. rrinoinnl jnri~prndenco, 1511.
Character, its estimation from develop· Crimo, not increased by education, !'7(1.
mcnt, 3i·l. Criminal~. troatment of, 371.
Charibs, 3\J, J.IJ, 1~, 168, tlO, I!U. Crocodile, 27.
t;hancer, 2'10. Crook, G!.
Che11ivix, GO, 70. r.rocklltt, David, on Janruag~ue, 348.
Child·nurso, requisite quaiiUea of a, 181. Cromwell, Ill.
Children, trc11tment of, 121. Crura, thl', 67, 128.
Chines11, U2, 230, 304.· Cu~kno, 2~.
Christ, 180, 1{1$, . Cudworth, !lfl3.
Churches, Scotch, 320. Culll'n, !IS.
Chyle, 3U. Curran, 2:,4, U$, 1St, 1105.
Claym11, 31$.
Cincinnati Dally New•, 110.
ClneritlouK matter, lllfl, 178.
Cingaloso boy, lM.t...IU.
Clrcumarcetaon, laa.
Clarke, Dr., ll03.
CluslllcaUon1_64.
Cleanllnen, nl.
Clergy 374.
CUno, Mr., 08.
CUnton Jlall, !18. ·
Cloquet, on phrenololf, 87.
Coate~, Dr. D. R., '18. -
CobbeU, litO, 108.
Dandn~. U'-
Dnndy, 183.
Doaf and dumb, liM
Dl'an, 1:18.
Dl'ray and RenonUon, 3Jt.
l'nfoo, 230.
Dt-formity, cure or. m.
Demolltia, \19.
Dorangomont, 07, 112, 141,1», ~1. 16J,
r.s.
ll>t•rhllm, 1118.
Doatructivonesl, (i3, 112, U3.
Determination,10'1. _
Digo ized by GoogIe
INDI:X. 38$
Detraction, 1i8.
D1seative ay~em, 3H, 3-lS.
Dlseue, 313.
Dispositions and talfnta, 118, lit, te2.
Uiatanct>, 233.
Uodd, Dr., 1tr., 20!1.
l>olf, the, 291 lOS, 1!16, 1.0, 1$3, 1113, l.fJ.
Dolphin, ».
Dorsey, on phrllnolosr, M.
Uough••• 233, 237.
Do•nc'11 ~hoi's, 322.
Dran1o, the, 2i9.
Dress-makel'll, 17f.
Drunkenness, 161.
Dreaminf, 102, lfl, !66.
Ducks, 3. ·
Dul'lling, 282.
Dunn, Mr., 242, 203.
Duodenum, 31~.
Dura mater, 130.
Dukh uaveller, anecdote of, fl.
Eagle, 108.
Ear, 108, ~.
Earth, figure of, J.l. Hittory of, 1~.
Ebel, ».
Econorny, 330.
Edinburg, 58.
Edinburgh Phrenological Joum&l, 78.
Edinburgh Phrenological So.::iety, 7&
Edinburgh Quarterly Review, 68, 90, 88,
n.
Edmondson, on weigh\, 230.
Edouart, !lion~., v, 160.
Educal·oHty, 63.
Education, 123, 183. 199, too, ~. 133.
In S.cotlond, 3~11. In the Unlled Statea1
347. In l'rnssla, 150. In England ancl
Scotland,~
Ehronberg f8.
Elephant, !,5, 107:
Elliotson, Dr., 'i6, 78, 268.
Ellis, on phrenology,~-
Engineer, necessary orgw\1 for a, !193.
England, church or 3~.
English, the, 110, 1A5, 1811 231.
Engranrs, 173, ll26.
En,·y, 178.
Esquimaux, 311, 130, I.U, Iff, 2111, 23111
24!J, 328. .
Estimative evidence, 135.
Ethiopians, 109.
Europeans, 110.
Eustache, the nerro, 1111.
Examination, 17~.
Experiments, 17.
Eye, 107,
Facial angle, 5&.
Facts, pre1ented Uld .prodaced 18.
Whon Isolated, ofiJil&l.l Yalue, Jt
Fainting, IIG.
Falcon, the, tu.
'Fancy, 103.
Fa.ssati1 on phrenology, ffT,
Fear, lUI, 1~.
Feelings, 129, 136, 3·U.
Fenelon, 190.
Ferguso..'!> Mr., 233.
F1brer, 01.
Fine arts} the atlldy of the, 3U.
Fisher C ara, l&rp imit&Uon, Itt.
Fi•her1
•1_Mr., plua of teadllnl,a
Fi3he•, ¥1~,107.
Flat-hesd Indiana, 1M, aoo.
·Fl"&lling, m, m. ·
Flourcn•l1SII.
Fluids, 3 5.
.Fodere, 103.
Food, changes ln, Sit.
Forelu~ad•, reuratinc, t:aJ.
Form, 63, 131, 23t.
Fonn of the brain, ltf,
Forr.ter1 Dr. Thomu, 01.
Fortitude, !101.
Fox, the, !IS, 2111 ltf, US, 170.
Fouche, 1641. ·
Franklin, Dr., 111,171, 11'7,t2t, tS11 101,
267, 29~.
Frazer1 ~II.
Fredenck, Iii, 201.
French, the, IM, 181, 185,101, tsJ.
French revolution, ~7, 103.
Frontal sinus, lSI.
Fuller, Mr., on the orpnof Wit, ttl.
G., Mr., 267.
Galen, 6$.
Galileo!,lf, t3, 57, 113, "'- •
Goll, 2'.., 68, M, liD, 1~ Jt1, 138. J)ia.
Co\·l'rics of, 63. Prlltion aile!. J\elllOil•
strnnco of, 68. Depreciation ot, lt.
. llcad or. 13), 268.
Gaming. !00, 360.
Gct'~C, 31.
G<•nhts, '113, 101, &IS.
G<'<>!!raphy, ttl. .
GCOUI<'try, 2~51 1.f81 IU.
Gl'orgct, 10\1.
Gemtans, ~-
Gibbon, ~9, 26f.
Gibson, Ml'll., \WO p\lplll ol, t~T.
Gilbert, 2(1,
GiiiU.pie, 'i-1.
Girls, 29, lf4. Education of, J6&
Gladi3tor, 50.
GIA.~~-hlnwin~~:, W.
Gluttony, 161,
Godman, Dr., 'i'll.
Gordon, ff fS.
Gottfried, i~, tOG.
Graminivorous animals, US.
Greeks, ancient, li3, 115,llte,ll!l
Greenlanders, 139, 146.
Gregory, Dr., on phrenoloey, 83.
Growth of organs, i'l!, J311, r:'8.
Gre)·hounds, UJ.
Grilfitht, small benevoltDCt of, 181.
n., Mrs., 1':'6, tO!.
Haggart, 150, 1101, 1108.
ll:~.llcr, 4~.
ll:lliybunon, D. G., on pbrtno!ou,
llanJI'I, 23, ~$.5.
Happiness, lcill, 279.
llnrc, 1~, 206, 1101 101..
Harmony, !250.
llarri,on, 01.
Harvey, 51, ~7, et.
liat, UJ. ·-
33
Dill' ized by GoogIe
· . .-:
' INDEX.
. /.:
llardonr tl7, ttt, 13!1 tiN.
.Head, I " or. .I'OI"Ut,or, II&.
· Justice, 104•
Health, 113, W. .
Heaman 16'7.
Heart, Itt, 310.
IKaimea, Lord, 167, 154,1111.
Kalmuckl, the, 160..
' Kant, 266.
Henry IV., II, 1110.
l,lena, 31.
' Kepler, 242.
1King of ·Siam, 41.
flerschel, M, 173.
neue, 138.
HindOCMI, 110, 135, 1~1. 1:all, 1113.
Hippocrates, 48.
IKnight of Malta, 160.
Knowing faculties, ft'7..
Hobbes, Jg(), 203.
ILabour, should not be exc:e11tn, HI.
Laclies, Grecian and Rornan1 281. 0!
Jlogr, the poet, 8.
Homer,~. t17. .
Hood, Mr., a case reported by, •1.
llope; 1t1, 186, 208.
Hoppe, 114, 7&, 113. · '
Horse, tv, 107, 140, 151, 193,111.
Jloraemanahip, 136. .
Howe, Mr., 337. · ·
. Humboldt, the mathematician, IH, IH.
Hume, David, !103, r.o.
Hume, Joseph, N.. P., 116,13f, tl7, Ill,
t5:l,ll02. . . .
llumour 1&5, 2M. ·
Hunter, i;h:, John, W, !41.
Hunter, on phrenoloJJ, 87.
Huriting, 164.
Hutchison, 203.
Hydroceph:!.lus, 67.
Hypoc:hondrl~ 1&3.
ldeaUty, 63, t16.
Idiocy, IO'J, 110, 194, 107.
Imagination, t15, W .
Imitation, 114, 224.
Immortality,~. 271. ·
Individuality, 121, 131, m.
lnduclivo plliloaoplty, 17, 1~ tO.
lnfanticlcles, 33.
Infant school~, 344, 346.
·Infatuation, 2M.
lnhllhi\lvenoss, 114, 143.
In mcdlo tutisslmus Ibis prlnclple1 ft.
Insanity, 36, 112, 158!...163, 160, 174, 17t,
180, 111!!.194, 200. "l·reatment or,l7t.
lnsoc\8, -v.
Instinct, 3ft.
lnatruc\loni 338, 341. Illudea of, MS.
Jntellectua faculllel, 118, 110,,117, ld,
Intensity, m. . . ...
Intestines, SlS.
Intoxication, 134.
Irishmen, 1~, 303.
Irish porter, anecd~\e or,tel.
Irritability, 31t. . . .
lrvlnr, 180. ·
l~ana,lOS,l7S,S56•.
Jarvis, Jacob, 100, Itt.
Jelrrey ).ord, 100.
Jelrreyla resplrator,»J.
Jenner,M.
John, ot Saltbury,IO.
Johnson, Dr. Jamea, on 'Phrenotou, 85.
Johnson, Dr. Samuel,lOl, 100,1114.
JoDI!t Sllu, Mr., ut. .
J-pa, Mr~l7,-. · ·
i::A:~oo.'
America, t74. Addreaa.to, 111. •
La Fontaine, 165.
Language, 63, 118, 250. Of anlmalt, IU.
Laughter, 22t.
Lavater, 56.
Laws of honour, 20$.
Laws of nature, IQII.
Lectures at Boston, vt. At New·Yorll,
VII, IX. At Philadelphia, vill. .A\ Wi&o
mington, viii.
Lealie, ll41 250.
Linguist, tne, 112&.
LinJJ,138.
L!on, th!1 153, 171.
L•ver,luo.
Loltcs of the brain, 125, Jtll.
Locality, 63, 131, 241.
Locke, 116, 220.
Logic, 20.
London Phrenological Society, 76.
London Quarterly Review, 59.
Louis XVIII., 1':9.
Love of AP.probRtloo, 63, 180, 361.
Love of Ltfe, 114.
Love of our nelghb<.Ju;, 373.
Love of Youn,r, 26, 63, 140, 187.
Ludovlco Dolci, 48, 103.
Lunatic Asrlum of Now·Yorlr, 330. 01
Vienna, 35$.
Lungs, 106, 316.
L)·mphatic temperament, lit, Ui.
McClellan. Dr., ItS.
1\IcDowell, Dr., 61.
Mncblne·making, l':t.
Mnc Innes, u;, 150, 3();.
Mile Intosh, 203.
Mackcm:;ie, Sir G., ':5, 83.
Mackintosh, on phrenology,~.
Mncknish, ou phrenoloJ)', 83.
M:~claren, on phrenoloJJ, 84.
:\lac Laughlin, 235.
Madame de Stael, 69..
Madonna, 146.
Magpie, 146.
Mammalia, iS.
Mandaville, !103.
Mania,W.
Mares, 31.
Marryatt, Captain, 2.>4.
Martm, Rev. Mr., 138, 176, 187,201, tJ(I,
117.
Martin, the, 29.
Mastoid JlrOCen, 13-l.
Materialism, 169.
Mathematic•, t49.
Matrimonial atrife, 145.
Matlhewa, Charles, 225•.
o, ,,zedbyGoogle
Maxwell, 303, 307, 3iV.
1\leasurcmcnts, !74.
)lcdiciLI and Sur(i<:al Journal, vi.
:'tlcdulla Oblon~:ata, 128.
:lledullary mallor, 126;178.
:\lelancholia, 112.
:llemory, 103, 283, !88.
l\lental philosophy, importance of, MC.
:lfcrcanbl~ .Lib~_.AJisociatloD, YUI.
!\Jelaph)'SICians, JVO, 203, t$9.
~Jcyer, :IU.
~llgn.tion of birds, HI.
~lilne, James, 237.
!\lind, nrious opiniona of1 115.
:llineralc:>gf, 230.
:\linen·a, 49.
Ministers, 37~.
:lli•l'r, the, li9.
)litchell, 13!!.
)Jonker~ 271~ ~~. 166.
~fonro, bl 1119, JU.
;'\foore, H~, 260, 203.
)(oral faculties, and intell~t pvem the
propensities, 29-l.
){oral patients, 310.
~ton! re~ponsil.ility, 306.
.Morier's Tnn!s1 anecdote from, 10.
:llorta.lily of chil<U"en, 314.
Morton, 161, 306.
:\lotory tract of nerYes, 1111.
~lo,·cmcnts of the beavenly bodlet, 1._
:'ltourt, 23.
:llule!<, 184.
Muller, 60.
Muscles, 130, 3lt.
~lusic, ~. 236, 264
:\lusictans, 226.
:\lusscy, profeS$or, 81.
~-. Mr., 117, 214.
"'ames. 6!L
l"apnlcon, 151, 1&4, 173, 10$, 117, 1111,
2ti7, 307.
~a.tural l:~n~nge, 130, 14t.
~C',:ro, HI, 3!1.1.
;>i,•n·cs, ltlt\, 10$, Sit.
~crvous ron<"entration, t'lfecls of, 319.
l'cn·ous tcmpcr:lmcnt, 112, 338.
:-.ew-Uoll:mdel'li, 17!, 215, i10.
:-;ew, lo\·r of the, !llt.
:-1ew\on1 23, 2~, $4, 57, 94, llt2, !149.
~ew-York Daily and Weekly WhJr, w.
l\ew-\"orker, i..-.
l\cw·Zelllander, 103.
Oplic nen-e, 6T.
Oratol'll1 _295.
Order, 11:1· ·
Orga.ns, sitli&Uon of, 76.
Ormerod, Ann, W .
Otto, on phrenoloP., lt.
Ourang Outanr, l•O·
o,;d, 217.
Owen, Robert, 1ST.
Ox, 107, 146.
Oxygen, 317.
Paintin,, tiS, 226.
Paley, 196, 1103.
Pancreatic juice, 315.
Panic, Is&.
Pantomime, Ht.
P&nldise Lost, Cobbe\t'l opiDioa of. til.
Park, Munso, t-It.
Parlia,ment·boue, Yen\ilallo'D ol, 117.
Parricide, U3.
Parry, Captain, 19, 157, to2, tat, 187.
Pascal, U.
Pathol<>gy, 117.
Perception, ~.
Perides, large bead of, 40.
Periodical press, Ill.
Permeability of animal tissue, Sl&
Perpendicularity, sense of, a6.
Perse,·ennce, 202.
Persrecth·e, 233.
Peru\"ians, llO, tl:J, 229.
Peter de ltlontagnanL
PhUoprogeniliveness, 26l.~ Ito, 167'.
Philosopbicall811f11age1~­
Phrenolo~cal cnart an<1 bust, ':'6.
Phrenological mode of inn&ti(ltioa, 13.
Phrenological society, of EdiDbw'gb, ;e..
Of Paris, ':'8. Of London, ':'8. Oi Bos-
ton, 'N. Of New~\"orli::, ':'6. Of Balti-
more, SO. Of Washington, SO.
Phrenology, ab1,1se o!,_l!tl, r.s. Import•
ance of, tO, 37t. t·oundations oe. II.
DISCO\'ery of, n. Uistory 0~ (7. ~
plicstions of. 68. lltc.-anill( e 113. R..
ct'ption of, ~' GS, 375. 1\lewoll .r •
..-esti~3tilllf, 13, 135. ApplicaUoa to
l'nilt'd States. m
Physical t'ducation, Sit.
Physicians, 375.
Phy~lologicallectura, MS.
Pia materLl30.
Pierquin, ur., e8.
Pt~, the, 3H.
l\itro~en, 317.
North American IDdian, 1~ 178, M!!,
2~6.~.~
Pttt, WillianJ, Ul, t63, IG':, 1Si'1 a .-!
Phto,~.
l'orth American ReYie1V1 U.
Nostalgia, H6.
(l;ostrils, 107.
Novum Organw, Bacon'• 10
Number, 83,244. '
Nutntion, 314.
Oberlin, PUtor, 202.
Obaerntlon, 14, 17.
Obaen-ing faculties 117
Obstinaq, !02. I •
Oc~pltalspine, 1311.
Opiaa, dec:\1 of, 116.
Plsrfair, 03.
l'lurality of orpu, 100. 313.
J>oetl'}·, 217.
Poisons, 97.
Polecat, tbe, 19.
Pons \'arolii, 87, It!!, 1111.
l'ope, 23, 16t, 110, ~2, W, 1M."
Pores, 312.
Portrait painters, tJt.
Practical phrenologists, 360.-
Pratt, Miss, character of, 130.
~achen, 157, 177.
Present;ltiCJD of objt'CU, MS. .•
Pride,l81.
o,J,zedbyGoogle
..
·
-
umzx.
Printing, 19, 172.
Priu-fight.s, 150, 181.
ProlDISers, great, toll.
Propensities, IJC!, 1.0, m.
ProYerbs, 264.
Pruasia, 356.
P}lorus1 315.
Pyramiaal bodies, fl7.
Pytha&orus, 23, 48.
Quackery, 373.
Q113Jls, kmg of, 31.
Quahty of bnin, 378.
-u~ntin Durward, 164.
QaoJt.s,W.
Jlahbit, IS1.
aabelaia, m.
-.cine, !ft.
:&unua, Peter, 11..
~ity,m.
aaphael, tn.
:R.e8ectin1 facu1Uea,l5r7,11K.
:R.ellecUon, 101.
:Reformation, 20.
:R.epne ~n1, 33.
:Reid, I18, 103, 121.
Reil. fl7,
:R.elipon, Datural, 1118. orthe Bible, toe.
AD Important branch of eclucaUaD, UO,
Ariaea from what, 170.
:R.elicioua diCI'ereocea, their - · •·
:R.emone., toll.
:Rennie, on phfflno1oc fr7.
:Resolution- pa.~!Uid In N,.w.V..t,'ril, lL
In l'biladelphia, rill. .
:R.etentinnesa of ._emDI'J,18t, 178.
..tina, 137.
aetzer, Baron, fl7.
._\'elation, lOt.
:Ricberand, liS, 118.
:Robin. the,~.
'RoeiMlcll, 18, 1S1.
JlolreL, 60, 119.
'RolWi de Retham, 48.
:R.omana, the, 181.
aope llancers, w.
:R.oilcoe, tell.
:kou,lll&.
aoyal 1nRUtute of France, 45.
:Roy, bmmohun, 1101~' m.
:RUn, Dr.loenjamin, 110,171.
St. Gregory, 48.
Salmond, on phrenology, '56.
Sampson, [r., on sin, 2H.
Sangnlne tcmperamrnt, 112, -..
Sanaon, on phrenology, 81.
Satire, 224.
Schledlcr, 241.
Schoola, Scotch, 3211. :U~. U itecl Statea,
S30. Pauper school on Lon& la1and,
n1. Seats of, 33.
Scleneea, elements of •lmpl~ll4l. ·
Scotch, 141, 231, 2li8. Churca, 1111.
Scotland, education In, 148.
Scott, Dr., on phreno1oc, 85.
Scou, tbe preacher,l88.
Scotliah lnatitution for YOUI ~
368.
Sculpture, 218, as, 185.
Sea-dog, the, $$.
Seal, 10d. ·
Second-sight, !11.
Secretiveness, U, 1U.
Seduction, 145.
Self-esteem, U, 112, 176, 181.
Selfishness, 178.
Senses, 227.
Sensory tract of ne"ea, 1111.
Sentiments, 130, 175, 189, m.
Senants, the choice of, 176, 181, ...
Servito,48.
Sewall, Dr., 49, 132.
ShU.•peara1 ~. 115, !15.
Sheep, 106, 109, 153.
Shendu, R. B., 11e, 15!. IllS, lilt.
Stam, king of, 4!.
Sick-nu.-se, 282.
Simpson, 75.
Siu, 48, 49, 105, 1lll, 131, 1118, tiS, Ul.
Skating, W.
Skin, 312, 321,328.
Skull, 130. Disease ofthe,l&
Smith, Sir J. C., 261,1111.
Socrates, 210.
S<rmmering, $$. 109.
Solly, on the bnin, 128, 139, Its.
Southern Literary MeueDpr,lY.
Sp:miard, the, 110. .
· Sparrow,~.
Speakers, 265.
Epl"rnt:.tiun, 180.
Spiders, 2S.
Spinal marrow, 100.
Spine, deformities of, m.
Spunheim, 58, ffT, 9, n,Ti, IJ,lOO,llO,
121, m, 268, m, !118.
Squirrel, 28.
Stag, 29.
Statuary, 17l.
Stedman, 70.
Sterne, 2'lt.
Ste\'enson, , !91.
Stewardess, I ~
Stcwnrt, IIll, W3,150, teo.
tnmach, IGI, :nt.
Stork, the, 31, 170.
Stubbornness. 202.
Stuy\'csant lnshtute, 118.
ublimJty, 221.
Su1c1dcs, 187.
Superciliousness, 176.
urgcons, ~~~. 173.
Surveymg, 242.
Swallow, the, 170.
Swedenborll;', 51, 210, 213.
Swift, 221, 222, 230, ~.
Swiss, the, 110, 144.
Scott, Mr '76.
Scott, SirWal~r1 111, 160, Ill, Ill,Ill,
131, w, M, IIIJ. .
Tailors, 174.
Talenb, J08.
Tardy, ~~. )fl7.
Taaso, 110, Ill, 1118.
Tute,ltl.
Teacbera, tn~atmeat of, 1M.
Tuaperuaut, Ill, 171,117, ••
Digit1zedbyGoogle
·,
IND'RL
Teatimonials from cllltin(Uished men, Vep Baron, 14$.
92. Venention, &4, 10C, let.
Teutcbcn Merkur, 67. Ventilation, 318, m, m.
Theatres, 2S2. · Venus, 49.
Thomson, Rev. Dr., !6-1, 198. ''eraification, ut.
Thoracic duct, 315. Vicq d'Azrr,l7.
Thugs of India, 304 Vieussens, 67. .
Thnrtell, 195. ''imont, 45, 64, 75, 67, 143, 181. .
Tiger, 105. Yoiuin, on phrenotorr, fiT.
Tigbt·lacln&', 323. Voltaire, 217, 22l, IU, DO, t.H,181,1!11.
Time, or(&D of, 64, 1111 IM1 1511.
Time ofstudy1 324. ~ Wakefulneas, ~.
TiLles, 162. Warne, Ru. Mr., Jet.
Toronto Palladium, Iii. Warren, Dr., 79. ·
Training, 333, 339, 178. Wuhlnrton, tgo,
Treadmills, 371. W~:~ps, 28.
'l'ruth, 43. Watsor.1J5.
Tune, or(&D or, 111,83, W . Watts,..,.,,
Tunica Arachnoidea, 130. Waverley novels, !lit.
Turkeys, 31. Weight, 121, 131, !34.
Turnin~r;U.:I. Weir, on pbrenolOCJ', St.
'"elis, Dr., 79.
Uncle Toby, 1411. Welsh, Rev. Dr., 143.
Uliiques, 179. \\11llle, the, 55.
United St&tea, 158, 170. L&dies of, !174. \\11atcly, Bishop, OlliO&Ic, to. oapau.-
Muchants or, 320. Advice to the peo- nology, 83.
pie or, 352, 363. Application of phre· Will, 129
1 284, JOe.
nology to the present and prospective· Willis, 4~S.
condition or, 353. Superiority of the WUaon, profeuor, 117.
government of, 382, 367. Age of the Wit, 63, m..
Yoters or, 386. Excitability of the Witchcraft, ill,
people of, 367. Wolf, the, 111.
University of Cambridp1 15]. Woman, 3:1, 1U. too, 1118.
Unmarried ladies, 140. Wonder, 64, 110.
Unterbergen, 111. . Words1too, 343.
Worab p, 1116.
Vanity, Jet. Wrisberr ».
Vate to Mr. Combe, at Bolton, 'f11, At Writing, b4.
New-York, :a:l. W1U1111tr, IM, Ht. ·
