{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1839__fowler___phrenology_proven_illiustrated_and_applied.pdf","mytitle":"Phrenology Proven Illiustrated And Applied","mylang":"de"}
G
PHRENOLOGY
u //
PROVED, ILLUSTRATED, AND APPLIED,
ACCOMPANIED BY
A CHART;
EMBRACING AN
ANALYSIS OP THE PRIMARY, MENTAL POWERS
IN THEIR
VARIOUS DEGRESS OF DEVELOPMENT,
THE
PHENOMENA PRODUCED BY THEIR COMBINED ACTIVITY
AND THE
LOCATION OF THE PHRENOLOGICAL ORGANS IN THE HEAD.*
TOGETHER WITH A
VIEW OF THE MORAL AND THEOLOGICAL BEARING OF THE SCIENCE.
<d f'Ai- ^ i :
O. S! & L. N. J.OW LER,
PRACTICAL PHRENOLOGISTS,
ASSISTED BY
SAMUEL KIRKHAM,
AUTHOR OP “ ENGLISH GRAMMAR IN LECTURES,” AND AX
“ ESSAY OH ELOCUTION.”
FOURTH EDITION.
0 P H IL A D E L P H IA :
FOWLER AND BREVOORT, 210 CHESTNUT STREET.
N. FO W LE R , N EW YORK.
1889.
Digitized by Google
o . <. / o
1 T±irf~....
rc", £ t> .
/ ,
Y< V /*'
i
' '< r ; /
r'*, i:) c?. a
v ’ „><-
According to Act of Congress, in the year 1836, by
L. N. FOWLER * 8. KIRKIIAM,
In the Clerk’s Office ofthe District Court of the Southern District c
8TBKB0TYPSD BT F. F. BIPLSY.
HBWTOBS*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
P R E F A C E .
To Americanize whatever in science and the arts, is capable of
improving or adorning the mind, or of otherwise benefiting mankind,
is no less the duty, than it would prove the glory, of every American
citizen. Americans have had the genius and the moral courage to
point out to the world the landmarks of civil liberty, and the true
form and principles of free government, and, also, the highroad to
national prosperity by improving and promoting agriculture, com­
merce, and the arts; but, with a deep sense of humility and abase­
ment, it must be acknowledged, that hitherto they have rendered to
foreign literature and foreign science, a far more degrading homage
and submission than that demanded of our forefathers by political
tyrants at the period of our Revolution. W e have nobly burst the
bands of despotick rule, and raised a proud beacon of liberty and in­
dependence whose light has penetrated and illumined the remotest
corners of the earth; and yet, it cannot be denied, that we have too
generally been content to receive our literary and our scientifick sup­
plies by foreign importations—that we have too long degraded our­
selves by tamely submitting to the dictum of transatlantic^ writers,
and by servilely copying their works; or, in other words, that our
literary and scientinck dependence has brought a blush upon our po­
litical independence.
In nothing has this spirit of literary servility been more strikingly
manifested than in the works of our countrymen upon the science of
Phrenology. Hitherto, no American work has appeared upon this
subject, stamped with originality of thought, or presenting new and
comprehensive views, or even imbodying, to any considerable ex­
tent, facts produced by the soil and climate of equal rights; but every
thing phrenological in this country, has been either a reprint, or a
substantial copy, of some foreign work.
W hy this dearth of talent in American authorship upon Phrenolo­
gy? Is it because foreign writers have exhausted the subject; or be­
cause it is an exotick plant which no man of genius and learning
dares to touch ? or because we have not among us, minds sufficiently
gifted in logical and critical acumen, to grapple*with the subject, ana
to imbody and analyze the enormous mass of facts presented by the
peculiar condition of the country in which we live ? Surely, if the
genius of science ever demanded an advocate—if ever nature held
out her hand, and invited her worshipper to sit down by her side and
take her picture, here the votary of the one and the amateur of the
other have inducements and allurements to step forth, which were
never before proffered to mortal genius. In this land of plenty and
equal rights, conscious of its liberty to exercise any ana all of its
E
owe^s, the human mind marches forth unfettered and free. Here
uman nature displays itself in all its varying hues of light and
shade. Here, then, if anywhere, we might expect to find, not only
the greatest variety, but, also, the greatest extremes, of character and
Digitized by L.ooQle
PREFACE.
is ever to be forced home upon the minds of men, it will be, not so
much by reasoning upon the subject, as by a practical application of
its principles. What do the common people, or even scientifick men,
care about the arguments adduced in support of any new subject or
science ? Before they will believe in it, or even listen to it, they must
see its truth practically demonstrated. Indeed, the world will never
believe, either in any new mechanical invention or improvement, or
in any proposed discovery, however reasonable or useful it may be,
until they sec it fully and fairly tested by actual experiment. In their
phrenological experiments in describing character, the Authors sel­
dom fail to convince nearly all who witness them, both of the truth
of the science and of its practical utility; and, by gaining converts,
it gains advocates, students, and admirers, becomes known, and its
usefulness is thus disseminated. The importruce of this manual as
a practical treatise, majr be inferred from the fact, that it will enable
any individual, by having the relative size of his phrenological or­
gans correctly marked upon the Chart which accompanies it, to read
from the different pages of the book to which the Chart will refer
him, a most beautiful and accurate analysis of his own mind—a cor­
rect delineation of his own character and talents, and à perfect clas­
sification of all his mental operations, and thus enable him to judge
experimentally of the truth of the science.
C. The moral end theological bearing of the science is one of the
most important points connected with it, and is presented in the
latter part of this work, and discussed in such a manner, it is be­
lieved, as to wipe out the disgraceful stigma heretofore cast upon
Phrenology by branding it as a science whose doctrines lead to infi­
delity, fatalism, and so forth. The Authors trust that they have en­
tirely scraped off from it this moral fungus, and clearly shown, that,
so far from its being a legitimate shoot springing naturally from the
phrenological stock, it is a vile and baneful exotick, wholly engen­
dered in the minds of immoral, misguided, or designing men : and
thus, by clearing the skirts of Phrenology from every thing impure,
anti-christian, or unholy, they trust they have rendered an accept­
able service both to the cause of science and of pure morality and
true religion.
The great haste in which this volume has necessarily been pre­
pared for the press, is the only reasonable apology which the Authors
nave to offer for its numerous defects; and even this, it must be con­
fessed, is more hackneyed than weighty.
Ft
The contents will be found at the end of the work.
Digitized by b o o d l e
PHRENOLOGY
PROVED, ILLUSTRATED, AND APPLIED.
GENERAL REMARKS IN PROOF OF PHRENOLOGY.
P hrenology professes to point put a connexion between
certain manifestations ofthe mind, and particular conditions
and developments ofthe brain. It asserts, for example, that
the feeling of benevolence or kindness, is always manifested
and indicated by means of, and in proportion to,a given por­
tion of the brain; (see cuts;) and that the same is true of
cautiousness or circumspection, of love, hatred, and reason,
and ofall the other mental faculties and feelings; and, vice
versa, that the relative developments and various conditions
of given portions of the brain, manifest and indicate the
character and talents of individuals; so that the one can be
always ascertained by an observance of the other.
Phrenology also claims to be a new and complete system
of intellectual and moral philosophy, and professes to devel­
op and illustrate the fundamental principles of human natnre
—principles which are inseparably connectedwith man’s im­
provement and happiness, and which embrace every thing
pertaining to him as a physical, moral, and intellectual be­
ing. It rests for support, in part, upon the truth of the fol­
lowing propositions.
I. The brain is the organ of the mind, or that corporeal
instrument which the mind employs in the exercise of
thought and feeling. This proposition is established by the
following arguments.
First. How impossible soever h may be for us to compre­
hend the connexionbetween mind and matter, it is, neverthe­
less, indisputably true, that we have no knowledge of the
operations of the mind, except through the medium of its
physical organ, the body. This fact admits ofthe most am­
ple proof;but, without proof, it must be obvious toevery one
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
s PfiREHOLOGY PROVED.
who reflects at all—obvious that we know nothing of mind,
in this life, as a separate entity, or a thing that acts indepen­
dently of its organick apparatus.
Second. Since the body is the instrument of the mind, it
follows, that the mind must act upon the physical world,
either directly through the whole body, or by means ofsome
particular portion ofit. But it would be absurd to suppose*
that the mind employs the wholebodyas its corporeal organ;
for it is well known, that the various parts of the human
frame, with the exception of the brain,* such as the limbsu
the lungs, the heart, the liver, the stomach, the viscera, &c„
are exclusively occupied, each in performing its particular
class of functions. Hence it may be inferred, analogically,
that some particular portion of the body is allotted to the
exercise of the mental functions—a class of functions im­
mensely more important than all those which fallto the lotof
the wholebody besides: and inasmuch as all the other parts
ofthebody are known to be employed in the performance oi
theother functions, it follows, that the brain must be devoted
to the performance ofthe intellectual functions.
Third. Another and, perhaps, stronger evidence that the
brain is the organ ofthe mind, may be derived from its im­
portant location in the human frame, and the extreme deli­
cacy of its wonderful structure. Look at its commanding
position, in the superiour and crowning portion of this ma-
jestick structure calledman! See the matchless skill of th#
Divine Architect displayed in protecting, from external in­
jury, this exquisitely-wrought instrument j first,by the scull
so elegantly and wonderfully shaped, and so judiciously di
vided into its various frontal, lateral, and occipital portions:
and all these so ingeniously and so strongly joined together
by their respective sutures ! And in order still farther to
strengthen this bulwark of the intellect, we find the scull
again dividedinto its external and internal tables; and these
tables suppojrted and united by an intervening, spongy sub­
stancecalled diploe,w'hich Tenders it less liable tobe cracked
or broken. This ossifick ball is also strengthened by the
scalp or skin; and this, again, is both protected and adorned
by a thick coat of flowing hair. But, when we take a view
of the interiour of this “dome of thought,” this “palace of
the soul,” and survey its beautiful chambers, so superbly
*The jpleen may also be considered another exception \ btft Uis too nnH
portant to be noticed in the argument.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
THE BRAIN THE ORGAN OF THE HIND. 9
lined with the dura mater—when we look at the pia mater,
which envelops the brain, and at the ingenious contrivance
of that secreting membrane, the tunica arachnoidea, placed
between the dura and the pia mater to lubricate and soften
both—when we examine the partition walls of these cham­
bers, formed by thefalciform process of the dura mater, and
the connecting fibres of the two hemispheres of the brain,
styled the corpus collosum—when we scrutinize the cineri-
tious substance of which the brain itself is composed, and
notice the beautiful convolutions in which it is deposited—
when we observe that this organ is the grand centre of ail
the most delicate and intricate machineryofthe human frame,
the finale of the spinal marrow, and of the whole nervous
system, and, moreover, the recipient of, at least, one-third of
the vital flood propelled by the heart—when we look at all
this, the conviction is forced home upon us, that the Great
Architect would not be likely to make such a display of wis­
dom and skill in the formation, location,and protection ofthe
brain, unless, in doing so, he had some important end in
view—unless, in short, he designed the brain to perform the
menial functions.
Fourth. It has been fullyproved by anatomical demonstra­
tions, that the nerves of feeling, seeing, hearing, smelling,
d&c., have their origin in the brain, and even compose a por­
tion ofthat organ; and the functions of these nerves, consti­
tute a portion of the intellectual operations. Now, since a
portion ofthe mental functions, is performed by a part ofthe
brain, it is a logical induction to infer, thatthe remaining
mental operations are performed by the remaining portions
of the brain: and, without first showing by what organ or
organs the other intellectual phenomena are performed, no
one can logically call in question this induction.
Fifth. An inflammation ofthe ¿rain produces a derange­
ment of the mental faculties; and its debility causesmental
weakness, and sometimes even imbecility; but no such effects
are produced by the inflammation or debility of any other
pogtiofi ofthebody. A suspension ofthe action ofthe brain
bjf ¿ressure, or other causes, produces a suspension of the
a$£uiit of the mind, while the animal functions continue to
operate. The destruction or injury of even a portion of the
brain, (when it reaches an organ on both sides of the head,)
causes a derangement ofsome of the mental faculties; but
the mutilation of any other part of the body, such, for exam'
Digitized by L.ooQle
10 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
pie, as the amputation of a limb, produces no such effect
How can these things be accounted for on any other princi­
ple than that which recognises the brain as the organ ofthe
mind?
Sixth. There is found to exist a reciprocal proportion be­
tween the power and qualities of the mind, and the size,
activity, and shape of the brain. An observation of the va­
rious classes of animals, will illustrate this position. The
worm has little or no brain, and (except sensation) little or
no intellect or passion. The frog, the toad, the turtle, &c.
have a contracted and flattened brain, and the mental powers
proportionally weak. The dog, the monkey, the elephant,
&c., possess a cerebral development far superiour to those
animals last-named, and an intellect equallysuperiour. Idi­
ots are found to possess brains vastly inferiour to those be­
longing to men of ordinary talents; and these, again, a
development of this organ far inferiour to that of a Frank­
lin, a Bacon, a De Witt Clinton, a Webster, a Bonaparte, a
Sir Walter Scott, &c.: in other words, as we rise in the
scale of animated being from the lowestgradetothe highest,
at every ascending step, we invariably find, particularly in
the coronal and frontal regions of the head, (in which,
according to phrenology, the intellectual and moral organs
are located,) an additional amount of brain. Are these
things merely the result of chance; or do they show de­
sign?—are they merely accidental; or are they the result
offixed and immutable lawst
Other arguments in favour of the proposition that the
brain is the organ of the mind, might easily be adduced;
but, since it is generally admitted by the great naturalists,
anatomists, physiologists, metaphysicians, and philosophers,
it might fairly be assumed, and the burden of proof thrown
upon those who calljt in question.
II. The mind consists of a plurality of innate and inde­
pendent faculties—a congregate of separate, primary pow­
ers. The truth of this proposition may be shown by the
followingarguments.
First. The mind performs different classes of functions,
or various kinds of operations, such as love, hatred, fear,
reason, sensation, &c.; and, throughout all nature, different
classes of functions are always performed by different in-
struments. It is admitted, that seeing and hearing are men­
tal operations, and, also, that they are performed by different
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
MIND ▲ PLURALITY OF FACULTIES. ll
faculties. (See second argument under this proposition.) It
is likewise admitted, that the functions of love, hatred, rea­
son, &c., are intellectual functions, differing in their nature
and qualities no less than those of seeing and hearing. If,
then, the economy of nature requires, that the mental opera­
tions of seeing and hearing, should be performed by differ­
ent faculties, why should not the sameeconomy also demand,
that the mental operations of loving, hating, reasoning, &c.
should also be performed by as many different faculties ?
The mind, therefore, consists of as many differentfaculties,
or primary powers, as it performs different classes of func­
tionsf.
Second. The mind is capable of doing several things at
the same time—of seeing and loving a friend, of reasoning
and feeling upon a subject, of talking, walking, looking,
thinking, hearing, &c., and all simultaneously; whichcould
not possibly be done by a single faculty. According to the
theory of Dr. Thomas Brown,* the mind is but a single
faculty or power, and all the various mental operations are
the product ofthis single faculty in different states, or modes
ofaction:—seeing, for example, is the mind, or, what is the
same thing, the man, in a state of seeing; hating, the mind,
or the man, in a state of hating; reasoning, the man in a
state of reasoning, &c. If this is so, how can the same
mind, or, what is equivalent, the same man, be in two or
more different states at the same instant ? How can an in­
dividual, at one and the same time, be wholly engrossed in
seeing his friend and in loving him? How can a speaker
carry on, simultaneously, a train of thought and a process
of feeling ? or how can he reason better when excited than
when not excited? If this theory were true, while looking
at a wound we could notfeel its pain, but, with perfect ease,
we might relieve its pain by simply looking at the wound,
or at any other object, or by engaging the mind in the exer­
cise of any other function; for, inasmuch as it would be im­
possible for us both to see and feel at the same time, the
instant we should begin to look, or think, or do any thing
else, we shoula cease tofeel. But sincewe can see the per­
forating needle whilst we feel its smart; can see our friend
whilst loving him; can be,at the same instant, both devising
and executing; can be walking, and talking, and seeing, ana
* Brown’s Philosophy of the Human Mind.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
feeling, and reasoning, &c. simultaneously, and as there
require each the exercise of the mind, it follows, that these
variousclassesof functions, and,by a parity ofreasoning, that
all the different classes of mental functions, are performed,
by as many different faculties, several of which can be in
simultaneous action.
The supporters of Dr. Brown’s theory, maintain, indeed,
that the mind can perform but one class of functions at a
time; but this can easily be shown to be incorrect j for, it
this position were true, the moment one should begin to
walk, which requires the exercise of the mind, and all th«
time he is engaged in walking, he must necessarily cease to
perform any and all other functions; and so of seeing, hear­
ing, feeling, &c. Suppose, for example, an orator is deeply
engaged in addressing an audience : according to this the­
ory, he must be engaged one moment in thinking, the next,
in feeling, the next, in looking at his audience, the next, in
gesticulation, and so on through the whole round of mental
operations which it is necessary for him to perform, before
he can recommence the circuit of the various functions en­
tering into the delivery of his discourse; but, it is evident,
that he may be, at one and the same time, beholding his au­
dience, gesticulating, and pouring forth a powerful current
of thought commingled with deep emotion; or, in other
words, at one and the same time, exercising all the various
faculties necessary to the performance of his oratorical
effort.
But, say the supporters of this theory, in such instances,
the mind does not perform several classes of functions at the
same time, but its transition from one class to another, is so
rapid as not to be observable. Let us look at this argument.
It cannot be denied, that an organ which performs any por*
tion of a class of functions, always performs the whole of
that class—that, for example, the organ of vision does all
the seeing, and that no seeing can be effected without its
agency and action; that no digestion can be performed with*
out the action of the stomach; that no sensation can take
place except by the instrumentality of the nerves of feeling;
no motion, except by the muscles, and so on ; and that this
principle holds good throughout all the operationsof nature:
and henceit follows, that the action of the brain, (which has
been proved to be the organ of the mind,) is just as neces*
sary in every, as in any, operation of the mind; and, conse­
12 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
MIND A PLURALITY OF FACULTIES. ia
quently, that there can be no operation of the mind without
a corresponding action of the brain: and, moreover, that a
change, in the operations of the mind, must necessarily pro­
duce a change in the action of the brain. If, then, the mind
were a single faculty, and, consequently, the brain a single
organ, their united transition from one class of functions to
another, could be no more rapid or instantaneous than that of
the eye, the finger, or any 'other corporeal organ, and, of
course, not so instantaneous as not to be observable; and, if
not observable, (which all will admit,) it cannot exist: and,
therefore, the mind cannotbea single faculty. But according
to the principle, that the mind consists of a •pluralityof facul­
ties, any,or even all, of these faculties may be in simultane­
ous and harmonious action—a principle as remarkable for
beauty and consistency, as the old theory is for deformity
and absurdity.
Third. The diversity of human character and talents,
proves the plurality of the mental faculties. If the mind
were a single faculty, all minds must be exactly alike in
their nature, their qualities, and their modes of action, and
coflld differ only in their strength and activity; which is
by no means the case: but, if different minds possess the
various faculties in different degrees of development, they
must, like the primary colours mingled in various propor­
tions, differ accordingly; which is the fact. If the mind
weTe a single faculty, it could work just as well in one har­
ness as in another—could perform all classes of mental op­
erations with equal facility and success; and every man
could succeed equally well in any and in every pursuit—
equally well as a poet, a painter, a musician, a logician, an
orator, a mathematician, a linguist, a mechanick, a naturalist,
a divine,and,inshort,in everycalling,and in everydepartment
of literature and science. Partial genius, or a taste and tal­
ent for doing particular things, striking instances of which
frequently occur, could not then exist; but all men wouldbe
equally capable of succeeding equally well inany thing and
in every thing. This, however, the experience of almost
every individual, evenfromthevery cradle, proves to be erro­
neous. Those who are idiots in some things, are often re­
markably gifted in other things; which proves that such,
and, by a parity of reasoning, that all mankind, possess dif­
ferent mental faculties, and in various degrees of strength
and activity.
Digitized by Google
u PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
Fourth. According to the principle, that the mind consists
of several faculties, it is evident that, in a given time, it can
perform, not only a greater number, but also, a greater vari­
ety, of operations, which would render it proportionally the
more perfect and useful. In order to show the force of this
argument, let us suppose that the body were so constituted
as to be incapable of performing more than one class of
functions at a time, so that, whilst performingthe function of
respiration, for example, it would be incapable of exercising
any other function—whilst executing the function of seeing,
that of hearing, of feeling, of digestion, and of every thing
else, must cease. How infinitely inferiour must such a ma­
chine be, to the magnificent structure which we now pos­
sess—a structure capable of proceeding, in the most easy
and elegant manner, in the simultaneous performance of
many widely different classes of functions ! As, in the op­
erations of the body, scarcely any thing important is ever
effected which does not require the cooperation of several,
different organs, so is it with respect to the operations ofthe
mind, for w'e rarely meet with any ofits products that do not
evince the combined efforts of several of its faculties,
we look into an author, for example, we can seldom proceed
far without meeting with a thought that displays the com­
bined action of reason, wit, fancy, and so forth.
Fifth. That the mind consists of a plurality of faculties,
may be proved, in the fifth place, by a reference to the men­
tal exercise of memory, by which we are to understand, a
reminiscence of the operations of the mind. It has been
shown, that, if the mind were a single faculty, its operation
would be just as powerful in all classes of functions, as in
any class. In this case, it could not only remember,judge, in­
vent, construct, copy, &c., with equal success, but its memory
would be just as strong when exercised upon one class of
fects, as when upon any other class; and, consequently,
every one would be able to remember every class of facts
with equabease and tenacity. But this is seldom, if ever,
the case. Almost every individual is a living witness to the
opposite state of things. in proof of which, it is necessary
only to appeal to observation and experience. Most persons
find it as easy to remember some things, as it is difficult to
remember others: they often find that their associates rec­
ollect what they forget, and forget what they remember.
It is both natural and easy for some persons to remember
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
MIND A PLURALITY OF FACULTIES. 15
faces, but to forget names j whilst others forget faces, but re­
collect names. The same holds true of size, weight, col­
ours, dates, tunes, places, incidents, &c. Hence, there are
many kinds of memory j but this could not be the case ifthe
mind were a single faculty: therefore, if we admit—what,
indeed, the phenomena of memorycompel us to admit—that
there are many kinds of memory, we must also admit, that
there are, at least, as many separate intellectual faculties, as
there are sorts of memory: ergo, the mind consists of a
plurality of faculties.
Sixth. A plurality of the mental faculties, is also estab­
lished by the phenomena of dreaming. If the mind werea
unity, it would act or repose,be asleepor awake,asa whole;
that is, one portion of it could not be awake and active,
whilst the remainder slept; and, consequently, all its phe­
nomena, so far as produced at all, would be in perfect har­
mony with each other. But this would entirely preclude
the phenomena of dreaming; or, at leastrthat kind ofdream­
ing so very common, in which numerous vivid emotions,
such as joy, grief, terrour, fear, affection, &c. arise, succeed
o$e another, and depart, without the control of the reason­
ing faculties. These phenomena, however, perfectly har­
monize with the doctrine of a plurality of faculties, some of
which, being awake and excited to action by some stimulus
which does not affect the other faculties, present those dis­
ordered ideas and feelings which constitute a dream, whilst
the repose of the others, permits this disordered action.
Seventh. Partial insanity, or monomania, is utterly at va­
riance with the idea that the mind is a single faculty, em­
ploying in its operations but a single organ. A derange­
ment of the mind can be caused only by a derangement of
the brain. Now, if all classes ofthe mental functions, were
performed by a single organ, it is evidert, that a derange­
ment of this organ, would cause a corresponding and uni­
form derangement of all the operations of the mind:
whereas, cases of monomania,or a derangementthat extends
to only one or two classes of the mental operations, whilst
all the other classes are performed with perfect sanity and
propriety, very frequently occur. This, indeed, is the most
common form in which derangementappears, many instances
of which have fallen under the author’s own observation.
We often meet with persons deranged in the matter of love,
or hatred, or on the subject of religion, or with respect to
Digitized by boogie
16 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
property, &c., whilst they are perfectly rational on every
other subject; but, if one and the same faculty exercised the
various functions of love, and hatred, and religious feeling,
&c., and, also, all the other mental functions, it would be im­
possible for this single faculty to be deranged in the perform­
ance of these first-named functions, whilst it was perfectly
sane in the exercise of all its other functions: consequently,
it is impossible for the mind to consist of only a single fac­
ulty.*
Eighth. The relief, and even refreshment, afforded to the
mind by a change of thought, study, feeling, &c., furnish
another evidence of a plurality of the mental faculties j for,
if the mind were but a single faculty, this single faculty
would have to perform all the mental operations, and, con­
sequently, would be just as much exhausted and fatigued by
its exercise in performing any one class of functions, as in
any other class; and, therefore, when fatiguedby exercising
one class of functions, it could, not only, not be relieved or
refreshed, but would be still farther exhausted, by dropping
that class, and taking up another. But what is the language
of facts touching this subject? How is it that the mechan-
ick, when fatigued by hard labour in his shop, experiences
relief and refreshmentby taking a smart walk to his meals?
Not, as has been intimated by some, by the mere novelty
presented by the change, but, by giving rest to the fatigued
organs, and by bringing into exercise another set of organs.
What is here predicated of the physical phenomena, holds
equally true when applied to the intellectual phenomena.
The student, for example, when suffering great fatigue of
mind from a long and continued pursuit ofmathematicks, or
metaphysicks, often turns to chymistry, history, the study of
language, of geography, or, perhaps, a work of imagina­
tion, with new vigour and fresh delight, although his fatigue
of mind is too great any longer to continue the first study.
The fact that a change of subjects or studies, affords relief
and refreshment to the mind, is too familiar to need farther
illustration; and the inference to be drawn from it, is per­
fectly obvious, namely, that this change which presents an­
other subject of study, calls into exercise another set offao
ulties.
* For a farther illiutration of this point, see Dr. A. Combe, and also Dr. Spor»
brim, upon Insanity.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
THB BRAIN A PLURALITY OF ORGANS. 17
Thus it would appear, that the various arguments under
this second proposition, namely, that the mind performs dif­
ferent classes of functions—that it is capable of performing
several classes of functions at the same time—that different
individuals possess the various mental faculties in different
degrees of strength and power, constituting what is called
partial genius—that the perfection ofthe mind requires that
it should be composed of many faculties—that the phenom­
ena of the various kinds of memory, could not be produced
by a single faculty—that the phenomena of dreaming could
not result from the operation of a single faculty—that partial
insanity is inconsistent with the idea of but a single mental
power—and that the relief which the mind experiences by a
change of subject, is owing to the exercise of another set of
faculties, one and all, clearly demonstrate the truth of the
proposition, that the mind is a plurality of innate and inde­
pendent faculties, and that this is a fundamental and consti­
tutional principle of the human mind. Many other argu­
ments in proof of this position, might readily be adduced ;
but it is believed that the foregoing are abundantly sufficient.
In the general argument in proof of the truth of phrenol­
ogy, this proposition is all-important,and evenfundamental.
It is, indeed, the test and touchstone of the truth of the sci­
ence. If this proposition should be disproved, phrenology
wouldfall, " likethe baseless fabrick ofa vision, and leave not
a wreck behind but if, in connexion with the preceding
Œ ition, it be established, there can be no such thing as
g the inference, that phrenology is true : and when
we prove that phrenology is true, we sweep away, like spi­
ders* webs, all the old and crude theories of mental philoso­
phy, and, in their stead, establish, upon an immoveable basis,
the beautiful and splendid superstructure of phrenological
science.
III. The brain consists ofasmany different portions or
organs, as the mind does of faculties. Throughout all
nature, different classes of functions are always performed
by different instruments; and no single organ is known to
perform more than one class of functions. It has already
been stated, that the organs of seeing, hearing, sensation,
&c., have been proved each to perform its respective, intel­
lectual function exclusively by means of a particularportion
of the brain ; and hence it follows analogically, that all the
Digitized by b o o d l e
18 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
other mental faculties must also perform their functions by
means of the other portions of the brain.
In supportofthis third proposition, innumerablefacts have
heretofore been brought forward by phrenologists, in addi­
tion to which the author takes the liberty of presenting a
few of the many that have fallen under his ownobservation.
He once examined the head of a lady who was deranged
in-the matter of conscience, but perfectly sane in every other
respect. He found the organ ofconscientiousness tobe very
large, and much heated, or much warmerthan any other por­
tion of the head. At the request of the author, other per­
sons present who were disbelievers in phrenology, applied
their hands to the head, and very readily perceived, and bore
testimony to, the fact.
While practising phrenology in Brattleborough, Yt., a
lady called upon the author, stating that she laboured under
a great difficulty in expressing her ideas. He remarkedthat
her organ of language was large, and asked if it had al­
ways been so. She replied, that, until she had an inflamma­
tion of the brain, which was particularly severe about the
eyes, (above which, this organ is located,) causing excruci­
ating pain in those parts, she could talk with fluency; But
since that time, she often hesitated for words in which to ex­
press the most commonplace ideas. The organ oflanguage
being situated upon the superorbiter plate, its inflammation
might easily be mistaken for an inflammation of the eyes'.
A little girl of Washington, D. C., received a fracture of
the scull in the region in which the organ of tune is located*.
Whilst confined with this wound, which had become irri­
tated, she experienced, what had never been manifested be­
fore, a strong and involuntary propensity to sing. Thus
the phenomena of musick was produced by what, under or*
dinary circumstances, we should expect to prevent it, viz. a"
wound ; and the only solution of the case, seems entirely to
turn upon the fact, that the inflammation was connectedwith
the phrenological organ of tune. This case was stated to
the author in 1835, by Dr. Miller, at the house, and in the
presence, of Dr. Sewall a distinguished physician and anti-
phrenologist.
Several cases of monomania, produced by wounds and in­
flammation in the cerebellum, in which the feeling of ama
tiveness was deranged, have been related to the author. One
was that of a gentleman in the west, who had to submit to
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
THE BRAIN A PLURALITY OF ORGANS. 19
the discipline of the straight-jacket, and who died the ninth
day of the disease, reported to the author by a Mr. C. An­
other case of the same kind, was reported bv Dr. Miller of
Baltimore, and another by Dr. Jackson of Boston; which,
together with the thousands of similar ones stated by Drs.
Gall, Spurzheim, and others, all tend to confirm the truth of
the proposition, that the brain consists of a plurality of or­
gans.
The author saw a man in Hatfield, Mass., who possesses
good talents, but who is deranged inthe matter of love, while
he is sane in other respects. He is often complaining of a
compressed sensation, and of a buzzing sound, exactly in
that portion of the head in which the organ of adhesiveness
is located. Many other cases in which the individuals were
rational, but whose attachments had been interrupted, have
fallen under the author’s observation, and in all of which
they complained of a soreness in the same place. In one of
these instances, the individual was unable to rest the back
part of the head upon a pillow, and suffered so much from
the presence of pain as to call in a physician meanwhile
the mental suffering, caused by the absence of the object of
attachment, was almost insupportable.
Did the proposed limits of this work permit, many more
similar facts would be presented, but those given are deemed
sufficiently numerous to prove a reciprocal connexion be­
tween the diseasedcondition of certain portions ofthe brain,
and a derangement of particular classes of the mental func­
tions. Here, then, we rest the argument. If the brain is a
unity,a diseaseofany portion of it, must affect itasa whole;
and, consequently, (on the supposition that the brain is the
organ of the mind,) equally affect every function of the
mind; yet, since this is not only, not borne out by facts, but
even in direct opposition to them, the only remaining con­
clusion is, that, instead of the whole brain’s being employed
by each, separate faculty of the mind, one portion of it is
employed by that faculty, for example, which performs the
function of anger, another portion by that which exercises
fear, and another by that which exercises reason, and so of
all the other mental functions. The contrary supposition is
•Through ignorance of the real cause of the disease, the mode of trertinent
•¿opted in this case, was very injurious and highly reprehensible. Instead ofak
laying the excitement, by removing the inflammation, a blister was applied, wliich
greatly increased the disease.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
20 PHRENOLOGY PROYED.
as absurd, and as much opposed toall analogy, both physical
and intellectual, as to suppose that the whole body should be
employed in seeing, the whole in hearing, in digestion, in
respiration, and in every other particular function : and if
this connexion between the faculties of the mind and par­
ticular portions ofthe brain, exists at all,itfollows, thatthere
can be no exercise of the one, without a reciprocal action of
the other ; or, in other words, that there can be no exercise
of a faculty, without the exercise of its corresponding or-
gan ; and, vice versa, no exercise of an organ, without the
exercise of its correspondingfaculty. The great Author of
nature would not have established this mutual connexion,
unless the economy of nature required it; and if this econ­
omy requires, it in any one instance, it must, for the same
reason, equally demand it in every instance.
It may also be added in this connexion, that, according to
the theory of the unity of the brain, each faculty must, of
necessity, use the brain as a whole in succession, which pre­
cludes the possibility ofthat common and necessary phenom­
ena of the mind, namely, itssimultaneous exercise of several
faculties.
IV. The variousfaculties of the mind are possessed, orig­
inally, in different degrees of strength by different indi­
viduals, and also by the same individual. There exists a
toto celo difference between a Shakspeare and a franklin, a
Howard and a Nero, a Raphael and a Washington, a Ben­
jamin West and a Patrick Henry—a difference which nei­
ther education nor circumstances could create, nor even
essentially modify. So strong was the passion for painting
with West, that he bid defiance both to the corrections of
his school-teacher, and the frowns of his parents, and seclu­
ded himself in his garret merely to indulge it; and even
while a mere child, and without instruction, he conceived
and executed some of' his most beautiful designs. Diversi­
ty and variety characterize the intellects and the feelings of
men, at least, as much as they do their countenances, and
that, even from the first dawn of the mind, and not unfre-
quently in opposition to circumstances. This diversity of
human intellects, dispositions, predilections, talents, &c., is
too common and too striking to need illustration. Every
individual, in a greater or less degree, furnishes an illustra­
tion of this fact. It has even passed into a proverb, that ••a
poet must be born, and not made and this applies equally
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
to the artist, the orator, the mechanick, the divine, the natu­
ralist. the accountant, and even to all who excel in any par­
ticular calling. The happiness ofsociety, and the improve­
ment of mankind, absolutely demand this variety of talents
and character; and, in accordance with this demand, the
Creator doubtless intends, and, therefore, qualifies, one man
for one sphere of action, and another, for another sphere.
If this diversity and variety did not exist, it is evident from
the principle, that like causes produce like effects, that, in
all cases, the same circumstances would form similar char­
acters, and opposite circumstances, opposite characters; or,
rather, that the character and talents of men would vary in
exact proportion to the variation of their education, circum­
stances in life, &c., so that, the one could always be estima­
ted from a knowledge of the other; but the fact is, similar
circumstances often produce opposite characters and talents,
and opposite circumstances, similar characters and talents.
The conclusion, then, both a priori and from facts, is, that
the various faculties are impartedto different individuals, and
even to the same individual, originally, in different degrees
o f strength. The force of education, however, in impro­
ving or perverting the faculties, as originally bestowed, in
modifying their relative power, and in changing their direc­
tion, is not intended here to be denied.
V. There exists a reciprocal proportion between the rel­
ative strength and power of the various mental f a c u l t ie s ,
and the size of those portions of the brain, or those o r g a n s ,
>y which they are severally manifested. It has alreadybeen
shown, that each mental faculty is exercised, exclusively, by
means of one particular portion of the brain; and, upon the
principle, which holds good throughout all nature, that,
other conditions being equal, size is always the measure of
power*—a principletoo familiar to require proof—it follows,
that the stronger a faculty is, the larger must be its organ;
and, vice versa,the larger an organ, the stronger its faculty.
This proposition is also rendered evident from the estab­
lished and familiar, physiological principle, that the exercise
of any corporeal organ, causes its increase. The exercise
of the arm oftheblacksmith, causes its enlargement. Those
who spend their lives at the oar, thereby greatly augment
the size of their arms and chests, while the lower extremi­
SIZE THB MEASURE OF POWER. 21
* See Combe’s System of Phrenology, pages 23 to29, and 90 to 98.
Digitized by L.ooQle
PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
ties are comparatively feeble. Labouring men generally
possess much larger bodies, and much smaller heads, than
literary and scientifick men. Give a child no exercise, and
you thereby make him a dwarf. Cease to exercise any por­
tion of the body, and it diminishes in size and strength.
Now, since the brain is one of the corporeal organs, it
follows, (until the brain is shown to form an exception to
the action ofthis law,) that thesame common law of increase
by exercise, and of decrease by inaction, which has been
shown to govern the othercorporeal organs, equally governs
the organs ofthe brain, causing their increase in proportion
to their exercise. And, since it has been shown, that the va­
rious faculties ofthe mind manifest their functions by means
of as many organs of the brain—that these faculties differ
in their strength—that the exercise of these organs must be
proportionate to that of their correspondingfaculties—and
that the increase of these organs must be proportionate to
their exercise, it necessarily follows, that the increase ofeach
organ, must be proportionate to the exercise of itsfaculty;
that, for example, if, in the exercise of the function of con­
scientiousness, an individual calls into action a given portion
of the brain, (see cuts,) and in the exercise of benevolence,
another portion, he must exercise, and, of course, increase,
the organ of benevolence more than he does that of consci­
entiousness, in proportion as he is more benevolent than he
is conscientious; and that the same holds true with respect
to all the other faculties ofthe mind,and their corresponding
organs of the brain. * Hence, a proportion between the tw'o,
must necessarily exist.
VI. The shape of the brain may generally be ascertain*
ed by theform of the scull; or, in other words, an increase
of the various portions of the brain, causes a corresponding
increase of the portions of the scull above them; for, inas­
much as the scull is moulded and adapted to the brain, the
conformation of the brain determines the shape of the scull,
and, with a few unimportant exceptions,corresponds with it
The scull is merely the protector of the brain, and sub­
servient to it; that is, the scull is formed for the brain, and
not the brain for the scull. IIow unreasonable, then, to
suppose, that the scull should throw any obstruction in the
way of the development of the brain ! This would be like
assuming, that men are made for the houses, they occupy,
and not the houses for the men. What 1 one operation of
22
Digitized by LooQle
SHAPE OF THE BRAIN. 23
nature interfere with, and prevent, another operation of na­
ture ! Does the bark of a tree obstruct the growth of the
tree ? Does the shell of the oyster, the lobster, or the turtle,
prevent the increase of, or give shape to, the body of these
animals? As well might we assume, that the skin gives
shape to, and prevents the growth of, the arm, the hand, or
the scull, as to suppose that the scull controls the size and
shape of the brain.
It is brought forward as an objection to phrenology, that
an enlargement of the scull can take place, only by the me-
chanical pressure of the brain, and that the brain is too soft
i substance to produce such an influence upon the scull.
This objection is fully answered byan appeal to that general
law of nature which accounts for the gradual expansion
of the scull as the individual advances in years, by the anal­
ogy of growth and formation as displayed in all her works.
Are not the gradual growth and formation of the wood and
bark of the tree, both mutual and natural ? And does not
the same hold true of the hard and soft parts of the shell-fish,
and of every thing analogous in nature? Can we conceive
any thing more mysterious or difficult in this, than in any
other operation of nature ? Is there any thing more unac­
countable in the formation and growth ofthebrain and scull,
than in that of the wood and bark of a tree? The clear
voice offads speaks in the language of demonstration upon
this subject ; and from its decision, there is no appeal. Not
only does the whole head, which, of course, includes the
scull, and all the various parts of the head, increase up to
the age of thirty or more, but theform ofthe head changes,
more or less, “from the cradle to the grave.”
In children the cerebellum forgan of amativeness) is
commonly very small. In middle aged persons (when the
vigour of the passion is greatest) its proportionate size is
greatly increased ; and in aged persons, again diminished ;
and the scull adapts itselfto this increase and decrease. The
middle of the foreheads ofchildren açd youth, is, in general,
extremely full and rounded, while that of men is generally
lepressed.
Nor is this the only class of factsbearing upon this point.
Numerous instances of the increase of various portions of
the scull, while other portions remained stationary, might
be cited ; yet, why should we consume time upon the prop­
osition, that the external surface of the brain and scull, in
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
24 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
general, correspond—a proposition which is not only a mat­
ter of observation, and which is demonstratedbyalmost every
scull upon which we can castour eyes, but which is already
proved to our hands by such men as Cuvier, Magendie,
CharlesBell,*and others ofequal learningand authority,and,
moreover, which is susceptible of physical demonstration?
It remains, then, for the phrenologist merely to ascertain
what portions of the brain are employed to manifestthe vari­
ous faculties, and, also, what are the indications upon the
scull of the relative size of these organs, (which, indeed,
has already been done by the most critical and extensive
observation,) and then he will have sufficient data from
which to determine even the minutice of the character and
talents, and of the various mental qualities, of any and of
every individual.
In this connexion may be mentioned the fact, that the
thickness of the scull may be determined by its vibrations in
speaking, the tones of the voice, &c.
VII. The history of the d is c o v e r y of phrenology, fur­
nishes ample demonstration of its truth. Like ail the other
exact sciences,! every portion of it was discovered, and
brought to its present state of perfection, entirely by induc­
tion—by an observation and a classification of facts. It
originated with Dr. Grail, a celebrated physician of Vienna,
who noticed, in the first place, a uniform connexion between
full and prominent eyes, and a talent forcommittingto mem­
ory. By this happy circumstance, he was led to look for
• In Charles Bell’s Anat II. 390, we are furnished with the following passage:
“Thus we find, that the bones of the head are moulded to the brain, and the pe­
culiar shapes of the bones of the head, are determined by the original peculiari­
ty in the snape of the brain.’1 Itis also added in a note, “I have seenone striking
instance of the scull’s decreasing with the brain. It occurred in an individual
who died at the age of thirty-two, after having laboured under chronick insanity
for upwards of ten years, and tchosemental weakness augmented inproportion to
the diminution of the brain and the shrinking of his scull The diminution of
bis head in size, attracted his own attention during life.” Cuvier is still more ex­
plicit upon the same point lie says, “In all mammiferons animals, the brain is
moulded in the cavity ofthe cranium, which itfills exactly: so that the description
of the osseous part, affords us a knowledge o$ at least, the external form of the
medullary mass within.” Magendie says, “The only way ofestimatingthe volume
of the brain in a living person, is to take the dimensions of the scull,” Ac. Other
authors might be quoted; but these are sufficient for our puipose; so that anat­
omists andphysicians, at least, cannot, with any appearance orconsistency, ques­
tion this proposition: and no others have any right to do so. Its correctness
stands, then, unshaken.
t So many phrenological facts, all, like the converging rays of the concave mir­
ror, tending to the same focus, all establishing and confirming the same general
principles as the great law of nature, have been collected and classified, tint,
until their opponents, upon whom the burden of proof is thus thrown, exptais
these facts upon other than phrenological principles, phrenologists have an un­
disputed right to number it among the “other exact sciences.”
Digitized by G j O O Q l e
DI8COVBBV OF FHHBNoLOOY. 25
oth«r signs oCintellect, in other portions of the bead, and,
accordingly, when he ascertained thatacertain servant-man
was pre-eminent for his kindness and goodness, he took a
cast of his head, and afterwards, the casts of several other*
persons distinguished for the same trait of character. He
then made a careful examination and comparison of these
several casts,and found,that, although they differed inevery
other respect, there was one protuberance, upon the upper
part of the frontal portion of the head, (see cuts,) common
to them all.
The following is the method adopted by Dr. Gall in the
discovery of combativeness. Aftercollectinga promiscuous
companyof ordinary persons from (he streets, he ascertain­
ed from them which were cowardly,andwhich,courageous.
He then placed the former by themselves and the latter by
themselves, and proceeded to examine and compare the re­
spectivedevelopmentsofthedifferent portionsoftheirheads,
until he ascertained, that, notwithstanding the great diver­
sity of shape in other parts, yet the heads of the courageous
ones all displayed a fulness and thickness just behind the
top of theear, (see cuts,) and that the heads of the cowardly
were all thin and depressed in that particularregion. This
discovery—aswell as thatofbenevolence—was then applied
to innumerable other subjects, until its correctness was
fully established.
The same plan was afterwards pursued byDrs. Gall and
Spurzheim, in the discovery of every other organ. They
travelled through manycountries in Europe, visiting theva­
rious hospitals,prisons,andotherplaceswhereextremecases
of character might be found,and examined the heads of all
the remarkable personswithin their reach, andthus, slowly
but surely, confirmed the discovery and location of about
thirty of the phrenological organs: and in this way they
collected an amount of facts sufficient to fasten conviction
upon every philosophical mind that will examine them.
Thus, in the discovery of phrenology, nothing was theo*
rized; but every organ wasdiscovered, and that (^observ­
ing, that certain manifestations of the mind, are always ac­
companied by particular manifestationsof thebrain. Phre­
nology rests its claims to respect and belief upon the same
grounds with thesciencesofchymistry, mineralogy, botany,
electricity, anatomy, and all the other sciences which arede­
duced froman observance and classificationof natural facts.
2
Digitized by L.ooQle
36 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
VIII. The truth of phrenology is mainly supported By
an appeal tothe demonstrative evidence of p h y s ic a l p a c t s .
In this place an allusion can be made to only a few of the
innumerable facts that have already been observed in support
of phrenological science. Throughout the whole animal
kingdom,they abound; but, more especially, and in the most
striking manner,are they foundtobe manifested in that most
important and wonderful of the animal species—man.
The human head generally presents a large development
of the frontal anti coronal portions ofthe brain; and, accord*
ing to phrenology, the former oftheseportions, is the seat of
the intellectual, and the latter, of the moral, organs; but, in
the brains of animals, these portions are almost entirely
Wanting, as their heads manifest scarcely any traces ofthese
organs: and does not this perfectly correspond with the
mental qualities of these different classes of beings 7 The
European race (including their descendants in America)
possess a much larger endowment of these organs, and also
of their corresponding faculties, than any other portion of
the human species. Hence, their intellectual and moral su­
periority over all other races of men. Franklin, Locke,
Bacon, Browne, Edwards, Webster, and Drs. Richard and
James Rush, and, indeed, all deep and profound reasoners,
all original and powerful thinkers, without a solitary excep­
tion, possess really immense causality and comparison.
Among all the heads examined and noticed by the author,
he has never seen one with so very high, broad, and deep a
forehead, or, in other words, in which the reasoning organs
are developed in so extraordinary a manner, as in that of
Daniel Webster j# and where do we find his, superiour for
displaying those faculties of the mind which are imparted
bythese organs 7 (See comparison and causalityverylarge.)
Men of ordinary talent, possess a respectable endowment of
these organs. The Hindoos, Chinese, American Indians!,
and the African race, still less, but much morethan the low­
er order of animals. Idiots, scarcely any; and the lower
order ofanimals, none, or next to none at all. (See illus­
tration by cuts.)
The monkey possesses immense philoprogenitiveness^
*In the different parts of this work, the author occasionally takes the liberty
of referring to individuals whose permission to do so, he has not had the oppor­
tunity to ask. He trusts, however, that the cause of science will be subserved
by this license, sod that this will be received as a sufficient apology for kinu
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
PHRENOLOGY OP ANIMALS. 27
amativeness, and individuality, and large secretiveness, com­
bativeness, &c., and but very little language, causality, com­
parison,* and moral organs; which perfectly corresponds
with the character of the animal. The crow has very large
cautiousness and secretiveness, and large combativeness; the
cat, the fox, the weasel, and all those animals which employ
secrecy in catching their prey, possess large cautiousness,
secretiveness, and destructiveness; the tiger, the lion, the
leopard, and the panther, or the feline species generally, the
bear, the wolf, the fox, the hawk, the owl, the eagle, and all
animals which destroy other animals and live upon their
flesh, possess, without an individual exception, large com­
bativeness and immense destructiveness; while the deer, the
calf, the sheep, the hen, the dove, the pigeon, and all those
animals which eat no flesh, and are not savage in their na­
ture, havesmall combativeness and very little destructiveness.
The dog has very large locality, and, accordingly, is able
to pursue The deer for successive days through the deep for­
est, making almost innumerableturnings and windings, and
yet, when he gives up the chase, can pursue a direct line to
his home. The bear and the swine possess thesame organ,
and also the same faculty, in a remarkable degree. The
familiar feet of tying up a pig in a bag, and of transporting
him, in this condition, to a distance, is directly in point. It
is well known, that as soon as he is released, if he has the
opportunity, he will draw a bee-line for his home. Secre­
tiveness is so extremely developed in the head ofthe cat and
the fox, that the protuberance assumes the appearance of a
little horn,while destructiveness,though large, comparatively
retires; but in the dog and the bear, destructiveness is much
larger than secretiveness: and this exactly corresponds with
the character of each. In the gambols of the kitten, and in
the general disposition ofthe cat, we seea great deal more of
secrecy and slyness than of destructiveness; but in the dog,
we see the disposition to bite and tear in pieces without the
* In the monkey, the superorbiter plafe, upon which language is located, and
the portion of the scull beneath which causality is situated, are joined together,
thusindicating a want of these organs. Their want of the correspondingfacuL
tie», is equally striking. In the Indian and African races, these portions of the
scull are separated, perhaps, one inch and a half; whilst in the miniature bust of
Franklin, which is probably not one-tenth the size of his head, these same por­
tions are separated nearly as far as in the full grown Indian and African heads.
The height of this miniature bust, from the external opening of the ear, is also
nearly as great as that of the full-sized Indian head; which strictly corresponds
with the moral character ofeach
Digitized by b o o d l e
*8 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
use of artifice or cunning. In the head of the monkey, the
robin, the bluebird, the partridge, and other animals which
show an extreme fondness for their young, as well as in fe­
males generally, the organ of philoprogenitiveness is very
large; while in the male dog, which is a stranger to this
feeling, no traces of it are to be found. The strength ofthis
feeling in the female bear, which, as is well known, will
fight so desperately for her cubs, corresponds exactly with
the development of the organ in a scull of the bear now in
the author’s possession.*
Facts which show the correspondence between the known
characteristicks of the various classes of animals and their
phrenological developments, might be added to almost any
extent, and their correctness demonstrated by the author’s
collection of the sculls of animals. Every menagerie in
the country affords numerous and striking evidences and
illustrations of the truth of phrenology. All animated na­
ture teems with facts in its favour: ana no striking instance
has been, or, the affirmation may be ventured, can be, pro­
duced, through all the gradationsand classes which compose
the animal kingdom, from the worm up to man, and even
through all the different races of men, which can show a
discrepance between the known and marked characteristicks
of an animal, and the phrenological developments and con­
ditions of his brain; but, on the contrary, the coincidences
between the two, are invariably found tobethe most striking
and satisfactory. Inasmuch, then, as the phrenological
phenomena, from one end of the chain of animated beings
tothe other,are uniformly found toaccord with thecharacters
of these beings, it follows, that the same phrenological law
governs all animals, and, consequently, causes this uni­
formity.
Yet, after all, it is the human species that furnishes the
most varied, the most striking, and the most copious evi­
* The followinganecdote is well authenticated. Recently a former in Allegany
Co., N. Y., on rising in the morning, discovered that a 60Wof his had been killed
in the stv, and that her litter of pigs was missing: and from the tracks of a bear
around the pen, together with copious traces of blood, he concluded that the pigs
had all been eaten by the bear. Some time after, however, the farmer encoun*
tered, in the woods, a large female bear, having in her charge and keeping his lost
litter of pigs. A sharp conflict ensued. The farmer, determined to recover his
stolen property, displayed his comb&tiveness in aheroick manner; and bruin, ae>
tuated by the still stronger passion of philoprogenitivencss, showed unwonted
prowess in defending her paternal right to her adopted offspring, until, at length,
overcome by the skill of her human antagonist, she took to flight, carrying offone
of the little squeakers in her mouth. This singular incident clearly shows, that
the bear possessed larger pbiloprogenitiveness than alimentiveness.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
INDIAN DEVELOPMENTS. 29
dences and illustrations of the truth and principles of this
science; because it is man alone that is capable of perform­
ing the greatest number, and the most complicated kinds, of
functions—man, whose mind can grasp the great, and attend
to the minute—man, in short, who is lord over all other ter­
restrial beings.
A great number of Indian heads and sculls, from many
of the different American tribes,has fallen under the author’s
observation and inspection ; and he has found, as a general
feature common to them all, an extreme development of de­
structiveness, secretiveness, and cautiousness, together with
a large endowment of individuality, eventuality, tune, con­
scientiousness, and veneration, and, sometimes, firmness;
large approbativeness or self-esteem, and sometimes both
large; moderate acquisitiveness, benevolence, causality,
combativeness, amativeness, and constfuctiveness: and, in
the female, extremely large adhesiveness and philoprogeni­
tiveness; but in the male, philoprogenitiveness moderate.
This combination of organs indicates just such a character
as the Indians generally possess. Their extreme destruc­
tiveness would create a cruel, blood-thirsty, and revengeful
disposition—a disposition common to the race—which, in
connexion with their moderate or small benevolence, would
make them turn a deafear to the cries of distress, and steel
them to such acts of barbarity as they are wont to practise
in torturing the hapless victims of their vengeance. Their
extremely large destructiveness combined with their large
secretiveness and cautiousness, and smaller combativeness,
would cause them to employ “cunning and stratagem in
warfare, in preference to open force;” would give them less
courage than cruelty; cause them to be wary, extremely
cautious in advancing upon an enemy, and to lurk in am­
bush; and, with high firmness, admirablyfitthem to endure
privation and hardship, and even the most cruel tortures;
and, at the same time, render them unconquerable: and if
to these we add large approbativeness, we may expect them
to glory in dark deeds of cruelty; in scalping the fallen foe,
and in butchering helpless women and children.
Their large conscientiousness would make them grateful
for favours,and, accordingto their ideasof justice, (which, in
consequence of their small causality, would be contracted,)
honest, upright, and faithful to their word; and these consti*
tute the principal sum of their moral virtues; but when wo
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
80 PHRENOLOGY PROVED
add their high veneration and marvel!ousness, we findthem
credulous, religious, and superstitious. Their small amount
of brain in the coronal region of the head, when compared
with their immense development of the animal passions and
selfish feelings, would bring them chiefly under the domin­
ion of the animal nature of man, and render them little sus­
ceptible of becoming civilized, humanized, and educated :
hence, the rugged soil which they present to the labours of
the Christian missionary. Their very large individuality
and locality, and full perceptive organs generally, with their
large destructiveness, secretiveness, and cautiousness, would
cause them to delight in the chase, and admirably qualify
them to succeed in it; whilst their small causality, would
render them incapable of producing many inventionsand im­
provements, or of reasoning profoundly. Their small ac­
quisitiveness would create in them but little desire for prop­
erty ; and this would result in a want of industry, and leave
them, as we find them, in a state of comparative destitution
as regards the comforts, and even the necessaries, of life.
The very large philoprogenitiveness oftheir females,admira­
bly qualifies them toprotect and cherish their offspring under
the peculiarly disadvantageous circumstances in which they
are placed ; whilst the small endowment of this faculty in
their males, would cause them to be comparatively indiffer­
entto their children, and to throw the whole burden of taking
care of them while young, upon the other sex. Thetr large
tune, and very large destructiveness, would give them a pas­
sion for war-songs and war-dances; and these combined with
their large eventuality, would cause themto adopt this meth­
od of perpetuating their warlike exploits.
In Washington the author examined the heads of about
twenty Indians of the Cherokee delegation to Congress, in
which he found the animal portion of the brain relatively
smaller, and the human and reasoning organs much larger,
than in Indian heads generally; and this perfectly harmon­
izes with, and accounts for, the feet, that this tribe is less
savage, and more intellectual, than any other. Indeed, the
phrenological developments of some of the half-breeds,were
decisively superiour. Those examined from Indiana, pos­
sessed a much larger development of destructiveness, and
were less talented and civilized. Those, again, from the
Osage tribe, possessed a development still more inferiour,
Digitized by boogie
AFRICAN HEADS. 31
and a corresponding character. A scull* from a tribe of
cannibals, located near the isthmus of Darien, which was
examined by the author, presented altogether the worst
phrenological developments of any scull he ever saw. In
shape, it bore a strong resemblance to that of the monkey,
except that destructiveness, secretiveness, and veneration,
and, perhaps, conscientiousness, were larger. Of intellect,
of course, these beings possess very little ; and no descrip­
tion can adequately set forth their barbarity and brutal fero­
city, no pen describetheir degradation. And thus it appears,
that, in passing from the European race to the Indian, and
from one tribe of Indians to another, we find, in every in­
stance, a striking coincidence between the phrenological de­
velopments of brain, andthe known traits of character.
The African race as found in America, furnish another
instance ofthe striking correspondencebetween their known
character and their phrenological developments. They pos­
sess,! in general, either large, or very large, adhesiveness,
philoprQgenitiveness, hope, language, and approbativeness,
or selfesteem, and sometimes both; large veneration, mar­
vellousness, individuality, locality, and tune ; with moderate
causality, constructiveness, and mirthfulness. Combative­
ness, destructiveness, secretiveness, acquisitiveness, and, per­
haps, conscientiousness, unlike these organs in the Indian
head, vary in size, being sometimes very large, and in other
instances, moderate or small. The size of their heads, is
generally moderate or small. Their extremely large hope,
would make them very cheerful, and little anxious about the
future; and, with their large approbativeness and small ac­
quisitiveness, extravagant, and predisposed to lead a life of
ease and idleness. Their very large hope and language,
with small secretiveness and mirthfulness, would give them
hilarity and garrulity, without much pure wit.
Their large, or very large, tune, which inspires them with
melody, with their smaller reasoning organs, which give
them but few thoughts, and their large language, would fur-
* A cast of this scull, the author believes, is for sale.
1 Individual exceptions to this description, are frequently to be met with, but
the author is confident thatits general features will be found to be characteristic^.
What the negroes are capableof attaining to by education and cultivation, he does
not pretendto say, noris it necessary to hisargumentthat he should do so; forha
Is merely pointingout the coincidences between theirpresent character, and theii
phrenological developments. This, however, he has observed, that the intellee
taalorgansare, in general, much better developed in coloured children than in
admits.
Digitized by b o o d l e
1
nish exactly such composition as we meet with in negro
tongs, doggrel rhymes glowing with vivacity and melody,
and containing many words and repetitions with bnt few
ideas. Their small reasoning organs would give them but
little depth and strength of intellect, and a feeble judgment,
with very little talent for contriving and planning. Their
very large philoprogenitiveness, adhesiveness, and inliabi-
tiveness, would make them extremely attached to their fami­
lies and the families of their masters, and pre-eminently
social.
Their excessively large approbativeness and self-esteem
would create in them that fondness for dress and show, and
that pride and vanity, for which they are so remarkable.
Their large religious organs would produce those strong
religious emotions, and that disposition to worship, for which
they are distinguished, as well as those rare specimens of
eminent piety sometimes found amongthem. Their variable
selfish organs would cause those extremes of temper and
character which they display, sometimes running into cun­
ning, thievishness, and general viciousness and cruelty, and
sometimes showing the opposite character. Their large
marvellousness accounts for their belief in ghosts and super­
natural events so often manifested among them ; whilst their
very large language, combined with their large perceptive
organs generally, would createinthem a desire tolearn, and
enable them to succeed well in many things.
The phrenological developments and characteristicks of
the Hindoos, are no less striking. In them the organs of
destructiveness and combativeness, are generally small;
which renders them less cruel and warlike than the Amer­
ican Indians, or even the European race. Their extremely
large veneration and marvellousness produce that religious
enthusiasm and superstition for which they are so noted ;
and their large acquisitiveness and small conscientiousness
often make them thievish.
Another important argument in favour of phrenology,
may be drawn from the difference in theconformation ofthe
heads of the two sexes. In the female character, fondness
for children, and general attachment, are undoubtedly pre­
dominating and controlling passions, much stronger, indeed,
than the same passions in the male sex ; and, accordingly,
we find the organs of adhesiveness, and, particularly, philo*
progenitiveness,so strongly developed in the female head as
82 PHRENOLOGY PROVEIL
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
BEADS Or THE SEXES. S3
to elongate, and even deform, the middle portion of theback
part of the head, affording a sure sign by \%hich to enable
the phrenologist to distinguish the female from the male
head.
The timidity, trepidation, and anxiety of the sex,are pro­
verbial ; in accordance with which, in their heads we find
the organ of cautiousness much larger than in the male, and
combativeness and destructiveness much smaller: and this
perfectly harmonizes with the fact, that they are more amia­
ble, and less cruel, than the other sex. Man possesses more
dignity, sternness, and force of character than woman, and
has less to do with trifles; and we find in his head, not only
a superiour endowment of combativeness and destructive­
ness, but also of self-esteem and firmness. The moral and
religious organs are generally much larger in the female,
than in the male, head; and weknowthat women are much
more inclined to religious worship than men. Ideality is
commonly larger in females; and in harmony with this, we
find them more refined anddelicate in feeling, and possessed
of better taste.
The sympathy and kindnessofwoman are alsoproverbial.
She will go much farther than man fwith reverence, and to
her everlasting honour, be it recorded) in her assiduities and
unremitting attentions to the sick, the needy^ and the afflict­
ed ; she will do, she will suffer, she will sacrifice any thing
and every thing to relieve distress, to bind up the broken­
hearted, and to pour the oil of consolation into the wounds
of a troubled soul: and all from pure motives of kindness,
affection, love, and duty. The phrenologist alone, is capa­
ble of developing and explaining this interesting mystery.
He can place his finger upon her superiour organs ofbenev­
olence, conscientiousness, adhesiveness, and philoprogeni­
tiveness.
But the justice of the Great Giver, would not allow t}ie
sex tolay claim to all that is superiour. The reasoning or­
gans are not so strongly developed in the softer, as in the
nobler, sex; (whether from a want of cultivation, or from
some other cause, the author does not pretend to decide;)
and, accordingly, we find the former less distinguished for
originality and powerof thought than the latter.
Lf the mind were a single faculty, and the brain a single
organ, and, of course, phrenology a farce, we might expect
to find a uniformity in the shape of the heads of the two
2*
Digitized by b o o d l e
PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
sexes, and, also, uniform developments in the heads of the
various individuals of the same sex; that is, exactly the re­
verse of what we find to exist. Now, this marked differ­
ence in the conformation of the heads of the different races
of men, ofthe sexes, and ofdifferent individuals, must either
be designed for some wise purpose, or it must be accidental.
That it is accidental, no rational mind can believe \ but if it
is the result of design in the great Author of it, the conclu­
sion is obvious, that it must have a direct reference to the
different qualities of mind known to be possessed by these
different races, sexes, and individuals.
Thus far, then, the author has presented only a few ofthe
numerous classes of facts which go to prove the truth of
phrenology. Should he descend to particulars, volumes
would be required to enumerate even the striking instances
which, in the courseof a few years1practice in the science,*
have fallen under his own observation. Many additional
facts will be interspersed throughthe followingpages ofthis
work.
Phrenology is either wholly true or wholly false. If the
phenomena which support it, are fortuitous or accidental,the
truth of phrenology may be doubted; but if they are the
result of fixed laws—ofthe unalterable principles of nature,
it must be true. But the uniformity and harmonyobservable
in these phenomena, render it impossible that they are the
mere product ofchance: hence it is impossiblethat phrenol­
ogy can be untrue. Phrenology, then, is consistent in the­
ory, and, by an appeal to nature and to facts, susceptible of
p h y s ic a l d e m o n s t r a t io n . Let judgment be pronounced
upon it, then, at this tribunal alone, and let it stand or fall
accordingly. It boldly challenges the most scrutinizing
examination. They who question jt8 truth, are called upon
to dispraoe theforegoing propositions, and to accountfor the
facts which support it, on other than phrenological princi­
ples : and the importance of the subject, makes this call a
reasonable one.
The author is willing that the truth or falsity of this sci­
ence, should wholly turn on his own ability to apply the
principles in describing the character and talents of individ­
uals by an examination of their heads. For several years
M
*Should the present work bo favourably received by the publlck, it is the do»
sign of the author soon to publish a larger work upon the subject, in which many
nor* individual footswill be stated.
Digitized by LooQle
HEADS OF THE SEXES. Sff
past, on alt occasions, and under every disadvantageous cir­
cumstance—even when opposed by prejudice, by envy, by
malice, by ridicule—he has boldly challenged those who
doubted the truth of phrenology, to test him in any and in
every way which their skepticism and their ingenuity could
devise: and, although, at first, whilst he lacked experience,
he made some mistakes, yet, he can appeal to more than ten
thousand living witnesses, who have been present at his pub-
lick examinations of heads, (as well as to the testimonials
introduced at the close ofthis work,) who will bear evidence
to the great and wonderful accuracy withwhich, in ninety-
nine cases in a hundred, he has described, even in minute
detail, the character and talents ofthose examined—notwith­
standing very many of theseexaminations were made by the
sense of touch alone,the author’s eyes being covered. Obser­
vation and experience, in short, have asthoroughly convinced
the author of the truth of phrenology, as he is satisfied of
the truth ofchymistry, electricity, or any other of the natu­
ral sciences, and by the same kind, and an equal amount, of
evidence.
Phrenology, then, demands assent to the following series
of propositions, namely, that the brain is the general organ
of the mind—that the mind consists of a plurality of facul­
ties—that each of these faculties is exercised by means of a
particular portion of the brain—that these several faculties
are possessed in different degrees of power by the same in­
dividual, and also by different individuals—that the size of
these several portions of the brain, or organs, is proportion­
ate to the power and exercise of their respective faculties—
that, in general, the shape of the scull corresponds with that
of the brain—that phrenology was discovered, and thus far
matured, wholly by induction—and that the whole animal
kingdom, and especially the human species, both prove and
illustrate the truth of this science.
But, as phrenology claims to be supported by facts, they
whose opinions are valuable, will neither form nor express a
decision upon its merits, until they have examined a suffi­
cient number of these facts to decide understandingly.
“Self-conviction,” observes an able, phrenological writer,
“must depend upon self-observation.” As the field is open
to every one, and is easy of observation, all are invited to
examine and judge for themselves. In this work will be
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
86 TEMPERAMENTS.
found our rules; and all, into whose hands it may fall, will
be able to apply them to the characters and developments of
their friends and acquaintances, and thus either prove or dis-
prove phrenology.
Digitized by b o o Q l e
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED,
TEMPERAMENTS.
As the illustration and application of the principles of
phrenology, necessarily combine with them much evidence
of the truth of the science, it is impossible totreatthese sev­
eral branches of the subject in a manner wholly distinctand
separate. At every succeedingstep oftheauthor’sprogress,
therefore, he will be able to present additional proofs of the
correctness and importance of the science.
Since the brain is the organ of the mind, ancj its action
necessary in every operation of the mind, we may naturally
expect a most intimate relation toexistbetween the two,and,
also, that this relation is reciprocal. Through the nerves
there likewise exists a most intimate and close connexion
and sympathy between the brain and every other portion of
the human system; hence, it is evident, that the various
conditions of the brain, and of the several parts ofthe body,
must effect, in the most direct manner, the manifestations of
thought and feeling. This, indeed, is a well-known fact;
but, nevertheless, one that is not appreciated nor acted upon
in any due proportion to its real value.
It is well known that, after the excitement produced by
drinking ardent spirits, has subsided, their effect is to lethar-
gise the powers of the intellect, and leave them in a similar
state of torpor with that of the body—that a given amount
of opium, or calomel, or arsenick, will drive from its throne
the feeling and thinking principle—that, in short, the ex­
haustion and thereireshment ofthebody and ofthemind,are
proportional and reciprocal Yet, how littleare the natural
laws of this mutual relation between bodyand mind, regard­
ed or attended to! The phenomena of the earth and its
surrounding elements, the mechanical principles, the lawsof
numbers and proportion,and ofthe various branches ofphys­
ical science, are studied with the greatest assiduity, and ap­
plied with the greatest care as far as they tend to promote
ourphysical wants and comforts, whilst the laws and condi*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
88 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
tions which regulate the mental manifestations, are nearly
overlooked. Mens sana in corpora sano, is, to be sure, an
adage often repeated, but Sildo.n understood.
Every day’s observation confirms and deepens the convic­
tion the author has long entertained, that much more is de­
pending upon the physiology of the body and the qualities
of the brain, or, what is the same thing, upon the tempers
mcnt, than upon the size and combinations of the organs—
that the depraved manifestations oftheorgans, or those vices
which everywhere abound, and which pour forth such a
flood of corruption among men, originate not in the nature
or the combinations of the organs orof their faculties,but in
thedisorderedphysiology ofmankind. For example: it is ad­
mitted that the size of the organs is not directly changed by
an improper use of ardent spirits; but.who does not know,
that the vices of an individual, may be easily augmented a
hundred-fold by habits of intemperance? And why isthis?
fiimplv because his physiology is deranged. Now, why
should not every derangement ofthe body, whether brought
about by the use of alcohol or wine, or an improper quality
or quantity offood, or by any other cause, produce the same
result? And is not the conclusion just, that the ocean of
sin, and consequent misery, which swallows up nearly all
that is lovely, and elevated, and desirable among men, is
produced bv the same cause? This portion of the expan­
sive field of phrenology, and, also, its kindred one, viz. that
containing the laws of propagation and its accompanying
phenomena, and which are undoubtedly the most fertile
parts of the whole phrenological soil, are, as yet, compara­
tively unexplored. With the open volume of nature in one
hand, and the torch of truth in the other, phrenologists alone
have entered upon this immense and valuable tract. The
works of A. Combe upon this subject, are valuable above all
praise.
These digressive remarks, which, were they carried outto
the extent their importance demands, would require volumes,
will enable the reader to understand what the phrenologist
means by the
temperaments.
The word T emperaments is here used to denote certain
states or conditions of the bodyt or the relative activity of
particular classes of the corporeal organs.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
TEMPERAMENTS. 39
Other conditions being equal, the strength and power of
the various faculties of the mind, are in proportion to the
size of their corresponding organs of the brain. Yet, since
much depends upon the quality, organization, and activityof
the brain, and this upon the quality, organization, health,
habits, and activity of the body, or, in other words, upon the
temperament, a small brain often gains, in these respects,
what it loses in size. All great men are found topossessboth
a favourable temperament and a large brain.
The temperaments are divided into four kinds:
1. The lymphatick,orphlegmatick,in whichthe secreting
glands are the most active portion of the system; indicated
by soft and abundant flesh, and languor of the pulse, and of
aU the corporeal and mental functions; by a dull, ease-seek­
ing, inefficient, indolent, disposition, and an aversion to cor­
poreal and intellectual effort. Great excitement is necessary
to arouse one with this temperament to effort, yet the action
may then be a powerful one. This temperament is often
found among the Pennsylvania Germans, and also in ne­
groes.
2. The sanguine, in which the arterial system, and the
organs which circulate the various fluids, particularly*the
blood, are most active; indicated by light or sandy hair, fair
skin, a fresh and florid countenance, light or blue eyes, a
strong and rapid pulse, strong animal passions, and more ar­
dour, enthusiasm, activity, and zeal, than strength and power
of mind or body.
3. The bilious, in which the muscular portion of the sys­
tem predominates in activity; characterized by a more ath-
Jetick form; by strong bones and muscles, black hair, a dark
skin, and dark eyes; a strong and steady pulse, hardness,
strength, and power of body, accompanied with considerable
force and energy of mind and character.
4. The nervous, in which the brain and the nervous sys­
tem are much more active than the other portions of the
body, which gives rise to,and isaccompanied by, the highest
degree of excitability and activity of thecorporeal and men­
tal powers; vividness and intensity of emotion; clearness
and rapidity of thought, perception, and conception; spright­
liness of mind and body; light, fine, and thin hair; a ftur,
clear, and delicate skin andcountenance; and more activity,
vivacity, and intensity, than power and endurance, of mind
and body.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
These temperaments are generally compounded: the ner­
vous-sanguine gives the highest degree ofactivity and inten­
sity of thought and feeling: the nervous-bilious, activity,
accompanied with power and endurance, constituting one of
the most favourable temperaments, especially when united
with a little of the sanguine the bilious-lymphatick gives
mental and corporeal indolence, accompanied with power
under strong excitement; the sanguine-lvmphatick, is less fa­
vourable to intellectual,than tocorporeal, manifestations, &c.
But since these temperaments, and other conditions, ex­
cept the size of the respective organs, are alike in the same
head, it follows, that the power and energy of each faculty,
are proportionate to the size of its organ; so that this work
will generally present a comparison between the different
faculties of the same individual, rather than between the
various faculties ofdifferent individuals.
INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION.
The influence of education, which is admitted to be very
great, is exerted chiefly in directing and modifying the op­
erations and the manifestations of the various faculties, rath­
er than in increasing or diminishing their strength and
power, or the size of their respective organs. The function
of combativeness, for example, when trained in the ruder
states of society, manifests itself chiefly in physical combat,
family feuds, personal prowess, and hatred as manifested by
open violence and force, bodily exposures to danger, dbc.;
while the same amount of the same faculty, even with a
similar combination of the other faculties, when the subject
is educated in refined society, and placed underthe restraints
of law and religion, manifests itself chiefly in intellectual
and moral courage and resistance, in sarcasm, hatred, &c.;
and yet, the primary function of resistance and opposition,
in both instances, is the same in itsnature, degree,and aims.
The same is true of all the other faculties; so that, in de­
scribing character correctly, it is necessary for the phrenol­
ogist to know under what influences, and in what circum­
stances, the individual examined, has been placed.
The author does not intend, in this connexion, to touch
upon the influence of education in radically changing the*
40 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
* Henry Clay.
Digitized by LooQle
SHAPE 07 THE ORGANS. 41
relative power and activity of the various mental faculties,
or in moulding and materially changing thecharacter ofin­
dividuals, but he will reserve, for a future chapter, some re­
marks upon its importance, its influence, and the proper
method of conducting it
SHAPE OF THE ORGANS.
Each mental faculty, as has beenalready shown, is mani­
fested by means of two organs, occupying* a corresponding
portion of each hemisphere of the brain. The same princi­
ple of double organs obtains here, as is exemplified in the
case of the eye, the ear, &c., and, doubtless, for the same
good reason, namely, that when one organ is injured, the
other may perform the function. In shape, the organs are
conical, their apex being at the medulla oblongata,and their
base at the skull. The medulla oblongata is situated at the
base of the brain, or, rather, forms the capital of the column
ofthe spinal marrow. A straight line drawn from theopen­
ing ofoneear tothatoftheother,wouldpass nearly through it.
A more particular account of the anatomy ofthe brain, as
connected with phrenology, maybefound in Dr. Spurzheim’s
Phrenological Works, andin G. Combe’s “System of Phre­
nology.” As the limits of the present work, do not give the
author sufficient space to do justice to this subject, it is left
comparatively untouched, and, as ithas been so fully and so
ably presented by these authors, it is the less necessary that
he should enter into an examination of it.
It has already been shown, that the powerofeach faculty,
and its tendency to action, are proportionate to the size of
its respective organ. In order todeterminethe size oftheor­
gans, it is necessary to ascertain their length and their
breadth. The length oftheorgans may be determined by ob­
serving the distance from the external opening of the ear to
that partoftheskullin which theyterminate; and the breadth,
by the surface of the skulltheyoccupy. It issupposed that
the portion of an organ which is nearest to the skull, is
chiefly used in the exercise of the mental functions.
In some heads,the organs are sharperand more elongated
than in others, thus presenting a greater prominence; in
others, they are shorter and broader. The shape of the
former, denotes greater activityand quickness, and lesspow
er; that of the latter, greater intensity and strength.
Digitized by L.ooQle
4S PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
TEST OF THE FACULTIES.
Before we enter upon the classification or description of
the several faculties, it will be necessary to lay down some
rulesby which totest each supposed faculty, that wre may thus
be able to decide correctly, not only upon the claims of the
faculties as now laid down by phrenologists, but also upon
all that may be hereafter proposed as discoveries.
What is a faculty? The test which was proposed by
Spurzheim, and which is generally followed, is that
1. Which exists inone kind ofanimalsand notin another;
2. Which varies in the sexes of the same species;
3. Which is not proportionate to the other faculties ofthe
same individual;
4 Which does not manifest itself simultaneously with
the other faculties; that is, which appears or disappears ear­
lier or later than they;
5. Which may act or repose singly;
6. Which individually is propagated in a distinct manner
from parents to children; and,
7. Which singly may preserve its proper state of health,
or be affected by disease.
These seem tobe descriptions of the phenomena of a fac­
ulty, rather than a definition of its nature. A more simple
and comprehensive test seems to be,
That power of the mind which performsone,and but one,
distinct andhomogeneous classorkindoffunctions,and which
is manifested by means ofa givenportion ofthe brain. When­
ever, therefore, we ascertain that there is exerciseda distinct
class of functions, having for their endone important object,
we may infer, that there exists a distinct faculty which per­
forms it; and, vice versa, that the existence of a faculty pre­
supposes,and necessarily implies,a correspondingsuigeneris
class of functions which this faculty produces. Upon sub­
mitting the faculties as laid down in this work, to this test, it
will be found that the functions ascribed to amat., combat,
acquis., benev., hope, firm., caus., and all the rest, constitute
each a distinct, homogeneous class directedtoa specifickend,
and exercised by so many distinct portions ofthe brain; and
each supposed discovery of a faculty, which does not con*
form to these requisitions, is spurious.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
CLASSIFICATION OF THE FACULTIES. 43
CLASSIFICATION OF THE FACULTIES.
No permanent classification of the faculties has yet been
generally adopted. That last adopted by Spurzheim, and
followed by G. Combe, and all American phrenologists, is
unquestionably the best now in use. In its general divisions
and fundamental principles, it harmonizes very well with the
generick character ofthe faculties, and thegrouping together
of the organs in the head. So far as this isthe case,it is per­
fect ; yet, in its details, it is evidently defective, because it
often groups organs together which are located in widely
• different parts ofthe head,and also classifies faculties togeth­
er between which there is a generick difference. A more
perfect classification of the faculties than that adopted by the
great Author ofnature in the respective locations of theircor­
responding organs, cannot be imagined, and could havebeen
invented only by that all-wise Being who created these fac­
ulties ; and yet, to draw lines of demarcation between these
organs, is often extremely difficult. Coneentrativeness, for
example, is sui generis in its character, and too much unlike
any of the other faculties to be properly classed with any
subdivision of them, whether it be the propensities, the sen­
timents, or the intellectual faculties of Spurzheim and others,
or the domestick, selfish, human, or intellectual faculties of
the author. The function of ideality is not exclusively an
emotion, nor yet wholly an intellectual operation, but is evi-
lently a compound of both; and, accordingly, we find its lo­
cation to be between these two classes of faculties. Still, it
*s evidently human, in its character, and is classed accord­
ingly.
The same is true, except in a degree still more striking,
•.onceming mirthfulness, tune, imitation, and constructive­
ness. Is there not quite as much intellect displayed in a
truly pungent and appropriate witticism, or a splendid con­
ception oftheimagination, asthere is in musick9ina bonmot,
and the inspiration of poetry and oratory, as in a tune9 and
is there not quite as much emotion in a musical, as there
is in a poetical, performance9 There is evidently as little
generick difference between firmnessand self-esteem,as there
is between any othertwo organs. Both evidently belong to
thesame species; yet,Dr.Spurzheim,and all succeeding phre­
nologists, have grouped firmnessamongthe religious organs.
Why should destructiveness be placed before amativeness9
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
44 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Certainly not because it comes first in the order of nature,
nor in its position in the head. How much more of senti­
ment is there in imitation^Xhsm there is in attachment? Wom­
en are considered even more sentimental than men, and
chiefly because they manifest so much stronger attachment
What reason or philosophy is there in grouping construc­
tiveness among the animalpropensities, when it unquestion­
ably displays as much of intellect, and as little propensity,
as almost any other faculty? Its location also borders upon
that ofthe intellectual faculties. Similar remarks will apply
to the subdivisions of the intellectual faculties.
Enough has already been said to induce the reader to
suppose, that the author, in common with most otheT phre­
nologists, considers the presentclassification of the faculties,
if not every classification that can be made, very imperfect
For his own, though widely different from that generally
adopted, and, he hopes as materially improved, he is far from
claiming perfection. Phrenology is nota man-made theory.
All that we can know about it,is learned froman observation
of nature. Why not, then, in the classification of the fac­
ulties, as well as in their phenomena and analysis, follow
nature? or, in other words, why not let the faculties class­
ify themselves according to the grouping together of thehr
respective organs in the head ? In the classification of the
faculties, the author has endeavoured, as far as his ingenuity
and observation enable him, tofollow thisarrangement of the
organs, as the fundamental principle upon which his divis­
ions are based.*
* It will be seen that this discrepance between the author and other phrenolo*
fists, has adirect reference, not to the facts or principles which involve the truth
of phrenology, nor to the nature or the manifestationsof the faculties, but simply
to the numerical arrangement and the classification of the faculties, or to the
nomsnclature of the science; and cannot, therefore, be citedas an instance of a
radicaldisagreementamong phrenologists.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
CLASSIFICATION Of THE FACULTIES.
He will then submit the following
CLASSIFICATION OF THE PHRENOLOGICAL FACULTIES
AND ORGANS.
The Faculties are divided into two Classes, orOrders,
and these are subdivided into several Genera, and
these again into various Species*
ORDER I* Affective Faculties,orFeelings*
From these faculties originate the propensities, desires,
emotions,, sentiments, and the whole range of those mental
operations denominated feelings. They constitute by far
the largest, most vivid, and most powerful class of the men­
tal operations, and, whenever their legitimate stimuli are
presented, rush into involuntary activity, and frequently
without awaiting the mandate of reason, or listening to the
voice of propriety; and, although the internal excitement
necessarily produced by the presence of these stimuli, can­
not be avoided, yet, an open expression of this excitement,
need not take place; or,in other words, we are not always
obliged to express all that wefeel. The organs ofthese fac­
ulties, occupy that portion of the head commonly coveredby
hair.
GENUS I. P ropensities.
These embrace those mental functions which pertain lo
man as an animal, or to his physical relations. They stim­
ulate the other faculties;impart efficiency,impetus,and phys­
ical force to the whole character; originate the various ani­
mal impulses, instincts,desires,passions, and propensities to
act; and are located in the inferiour posterior, or back and
lower, portion of the head, (see cut No. 2. in the Sy­
nopsis,] causing, when large or very large, great breadth
and fulness between, behind, and over the ears, as in the cut
No. 8.12.13.14.15.16; but, when small, this portion ofthe
head isthin and narrow,as in the head of Franklin. Near­
ly all the brain of animals is developed in this region, as
will be seen by a reference to their heads or the cuts; and
their characters are made up, chiefly of the functions per*
taining to the corresponding faculties.
Digitized by L.ooQle
46 PHRENOLOOY ILLUSTRATED.
Species 1«
They are,
D o m e st ic k p r o p e n s it ie s .
1. Amativeness,
2. Philoprogenitiveness,
3. Adhesiveness,
4. Inhabitiveness,
Abbreviated.
amat
philopro.
adhes.
inhab.
These constitute man a gregarious animal ; lay the found­
ation for his civil institutions; make him a social and do•
mestick being; create his family attachments and relations;
have a direct reference to the marriage state, and originate
most of its duties, its relations, and its pleasures. When
large or very large, they cause an elongation and fulness
in the middle and lower portion of the back part of the
head; (seeDomes. Propensities in cut No. 2, and, also, the
female and Aurelia Chase;) but when they are small, this
partofthehead presentsadepressed and flattenedappearance,
as in the skull of the male Indian represented in the cuts.
5. Concentrativeness, concent
This is sui generis, or, unique in character; and, therefore,
referable to no specified class offaculties, but acts as a kind
of regulator or modifier ofail the other faculties.
Species II. Selfish propensities.
The selfish propensities are,
f VlTATIVENESS,"* Vl’ta t
6. Combativeness, combat.
7. Destructiveness, destruct *
8. Alimentiveness, aliment
9. Acquisitiveness, acquis.
10. Secretiveness, secret.
These provide for the various animal wants; have a di­
rect reference to the necessities, desires, and gratification of
the individual possessing them; and terminate upon his in­
terests, wants, and happiness. They are located upon the
sides of the head, around the ears, and, when large or very
large, give it a thick and rounded appearance, and make
* From the limited numberoftheauthor's experiments, he is disposed to regard
the location of this organ as uncertain, jet all his experimentsconfirm Us present
location.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
the sides of the head spherical,but when moderate or small,
the head is thinner and more flattened in this region.
These propensities, as will be seen by referring to the
combinations ofthe various classes of faculties, receivetheir
direction and their modification mainly from the relative in­
fluence of the sentiments and intellect.
GENUS II. H um an, moral, and religious sentim ents.
These are feelings of a higher order than the propensi­
ties ; are more elevating and ennobling in their character,
and more humanizing in their influence. They are located
together in the coronal or upper portion of the head, and,
when large or very large, elongate, widen, elevate, and ex-
E
and this part of the head; but when moderate or small, the
ead is lower, shorter, and narrower. See cut No. 2.
CLASSIFICATION OF THE FACULTIES. 47
Species I* Selfish sentiments.
They are,
Abbreviated.
11. Cautiousness, cautious.
12. Approbativeness, approbat.
13. Self-esteem, self-e.
14. Firmness, Arm.
These, like the selfish propensities, also terminate upon
their possessor, and, by disposing him to seek his own indi­
vidual interest and happiness, make him selfish; yet their
character and manifestations are far superiour tothose ofthe
selfish propensities, especially when the religious and rea­
soning faculties are strong. They are located together in
the superiour posterior, or back part of the upper portion
of the head, which is represented in the cuts by the name
of the Selfish Sentiments. When these organs
are large or very large, this portion of the head is extended
upwards and backwards,and, when theremaining sentiments
are deficient, is rendered conical, as in the cut of Black
Hawk.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
48 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Speeles II* Moral and Religious Sentiments.
They are, Abbreviated.
15. Conscientiousness, conscien.
16. Hope, hope.
17. Marvellousness, marvel
18. Veneration, veu.
19. Benevolence, benev.
These faculties create those moral, religious, and devo
tionai feelings and emotions which enter so largely into the
human character ; humanize, adorn, elevate, and soften the
natureofman ; constituteman a moraland accountable being,
and connect him with the moral government of God; create
those moral duties and relations which exist between man
and his Maker, and also between man and man ; and pro­
duce those characteristic!« commonly attributed to angels,
and (except in a vastly greater degree) to the Supreme Be­
ing. They are located in the superiour anterior, or the
frontal, portion of the upper pan of the head, and, when
large or very large, throw a proportionally large amonnt of
brain into this region, elevating and elongating it in this di­
rection, as in the case of Franklin, Herschell, and thepvui
female in the cuts ; but when small, this portion ofthe her? ir
low and slopes rapidly, as in the cuts No. 8. 12. 14. 42.
Species III* Semi-intellectual Sentiments.
They are,
20. Constructiveness,
21. Ideality,
22. Imitation,
23. Mirthfulness,
Abbreviated.
construct.
ideal.
imitât.
mirth.
These faculties are of a mixed nature, participating tht
properties both of the human sentiments and of the intellec
tual faculties. They tend to the adornment and perfection
of the human mind, by creating in it a taste and a talent for
the fine arts and polite literature, for constructing, manufac
turing, copying, and the like. They are located partly be­
tween the forehead and the portion of the head covered by
hair, and partly within the latter, giving, when large or very
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
CLASSIFICATION OF THE FACULTIES. 49
large, a fulness and breadth tothis portion of the head; but
when small, the head where the hah begins to appear, is
narrow and flattened.
ORDER II. Intellectual Faculties.
These faculties have to do exclusively with objects and
things, their physical qualities, and abstract relations. They
create a thirst for information, and furnish the ability to ac­
quire knowledge in general ; take cognizance of facts and
conditions, and remember them, and constitute what is com­
monly called the intellect, understanding, or judgment.
G E N U S I. P erceptive F aculties.
These perceive natural objects and their physical quali­
ties, together with some of their relations. They constitute
the direct medium of communication between the other fac­
ulties and the material world, and convey to the mind all the
physical information it is capable of acquiring.
Species I. External Senses.
They are,
Sensation,
Sight,
H earing,
T aste,
Smell.
(that is, feeling or touch.)
In accordance with the usage of his
► predecessors, the author has left these fac­
ulties unnumbered; but, inasmuch asthey
occupy each a given portion of the brain,
and are also mental faculties, there evidently exists no good
reason why they should not, in like manner, be numbered.
These perform the first portion of the process of observr
ing the physical qualities of material objects. The eye, for
example, may be perfectly good, yet the individual be utter­
ly unable to distinguish between the colours of objects, or
some of their other qualities; so that, in observing a colour,
the faculty of sight performs the first portion ofthe process,
and that of colour, the second. Hence, neither, actingsepa­
rately, can take cognizance of the colour of objects. This
example will also furnish an idea of the difference existing
between the other external senses, and the other perceptive
faculties. Their perfection materially assists the other intel­
lectual, and even the affective, faculties; yet, there is no ab­
solute dependance of the functionsof the one upon the func­
tions of the other.
3
Digitized by f l o o s i e
50 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Speeles II« O b s e r v in g a n d K n o w in g F a c u l t ie s .
They are, Abbreviated.
24. Individuality, individ.
25. F o r m , form.
26. Size, size.
27. Weight, weight
28. Colour, colour.
29. Order, order.
30. Calculation, calcu.
31. Locality, local.
These storethe mind with individual facts; furnisha gene
ral knowledgeofthings,theirconditions,andqualities;collect
statistical information; create a desire and a talent propor­
tionate to their size, for observing and knowing; and thus
fender very great assistance in doingevery kind ofbusiness.
They are located directly about the eyes—their principal
medium of communication with the external world—and,
when large or very large, cause the lower portion of the
forehead above the eyes, proportionally to protrude, as in the
eut of Herschell, of the Indians, of the New Zealander,
the bust of Washington, &c., (see corresponding part of cut
No. 2;) butwhenthey are moderate or small, this portion is
proportionally depressed, as in the cut of Franklin.
Species III« S e m i*p e r c e p t iv e F a c u l t ie s .
They are,
Abbreviated.
32. Eventuality, event.
33. Time, time.
34. Tune, tune.
35. Language, lang.
These constitute a class of faculties intermediate between
those which perceive objects and their physical qualities,and
those which comprehend the abstract relations ofthings, and
have todo with a class of facts which are not necessarily ot
a physical character. Some of these faculties are much
Stronger in children than in men, and their corresponding
Organs proportionally larger:hence, the depression general­
ly observable in the middle ofthe foreheads ofthe latter, and
the fulness and ioundness in that of theformer.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
G E N U S II. R eflective ob R easoning F aculties.
They are,
Abbreviated.
36. Causality, caus.
37. Comparison, compar.
These form ideas; reason; superintend the operation of
the other faculties; perceive abstract and metaphysical rela­
tions, the connexion between cause and effect, proposition
and inference, &c. ; form judgment; discover truth and ab­
surdity, &c. They are located in the superiour and frontal
portion of the forehead. When they are large, or very
large, the upper portion of the forehead is very high, broad,
and deep, as well as prominent, as in the cut of Franklinj
but when they are small, this portion of the forehead is low,
narrow, and depressed, as in the cut of the Indian.
COMBINATIONS OF THE CLASSES OF
FACULTIES.
The back part of the head,called occipital, is exclusively
occupied by the organs of the propensities and selfish senti­
ments : the remaining portion is called frontal, and is de­
voted to the organs of the sentiments and the intellect. The
portion represented by the lower portion of cut No. 2, is
called basilar, and the portion above it, coronal; the former
being allotted to the organs of the selfish propensities and
perceptive faculties, which constitute the principal faculties
possessed by animals, and the latter, to those of the senti­
ments and reasoning faculties.
The influence of the various combinations of faculties
upon the character, constitutes one ofthe most important fea­
tures of phrenology; and in nothing is this influence more
manifest than in those more general combinations of the va-
runurclassesoffaculties alreadymentioned. One inwhom the
occipital region, ^or the organs of the propensities and pro­
pelling powers,) is much larger than the frontal, will have
proportionally more of feeling than reason; of passion, than
intellect; of propelling, than directing, power; of efficiency,
than depth and strength, of intellect; of mental sail, than
ballast; of zeal, and energy, and action, than judgment; of
the animal, than of the intellectual and moral, qualities: but
COMBINATIONS OF THE FACULTIES. 51
Digitized by L.ooQle
52 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
when the occipitalportionissmallerthan the frontal, the char­
acter will be directly the opposite.
One in whomthebasilar region greatly predominates over
the coronal, will possess great force and efficiency of char­
acter; a ready talent for business and study; and strong pas­
sions applied to selfish purposes, but accompanied with less
morality and elevation ofcharacter and feeling; less depth o*
intellect, with less of the moral, religious, and human senti
merits; and yet, with full comparison and causality, may bt
capable of conducting and effecting important operations
This portion of the brain is generally large in men who dis­
tinguish themselves in the world.
One who possesses a much greater development of the
moral and intellectual organs, than of the propensities, will
have goodness, with less greatness or force, of character,
moralityandvirtue, joined with want of impetus, if notof effi­
ciency ; will have fine talents and a love for moral and in­
tellectual pursuits, accompanied with so much modesty and
dependance, if not actual tameness, of character, that he will
not be likely to rise in the world, unless pushed forward by
others, but may then distinguish himself; will be amiable
and sentimental, if not eminently pious, yet effect but little,
This organization is but poorly adapted to the exigences of
the nineteenth century.
One having large or .very large organs ofthe propensities
and ofthe religious sentiments, and reasoning faculties only
moderate or full, may struggle hard against the current of
his propensities, yet will be liable to be often overcome by
it; may endeavour to live a virtuous, Christian life, yet will
be sometimes guilty of gross inconsistencies, and apt to take
contracted views ot religious subjects, and indulge, alternate­
ly,bothclasses oforgans; but, with the moral and reasoning
organs equally large, will be obliged to struggle hard, yet
will generally struggle successfully, against “his easily be­
setting sins,” and, in general, be consistent in his religious
beliefand practice.
One having the propensities well developed, with very
large moral and intellectual OTgans, will combine great
strength of mind with great energy of character, directed by
the human sentiments, and applied to the advancement of
moral and benevolent objects, and be a talented and useful
member of society, yet have many faults.
One with the propensities and the intellectual organa
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
COMBINATIONS OF THE FACULTIES. > 53
large or very large, and the moral deficient, will combine
great power and energy of mind with great depravity of
character, and never lack means by which to gratify his self­
ish passions.
One having some of each class of organs large or very
large, will present seemingly contradictory phases of char­
acter ; will often do what he afterwards regrets, and be sub­
ject to a constant and severe “ warfare between the flesh and
the spirit.”
One having the perceptive organs generally large or very
large, and the reasoning organs only full, will have a mind
well stored with facts, and a desire to see and know; a thirst
for general information, and a facility in acquiring it; an
ability to attend to details, and a popular, practical, business
talent, but will lack depth, judgment, originality, and pene­
tration of mind; may execute well, but cannot adapt means
to ends, nor superintend complicated operations; may pos­
sess versatility of genius, be a good scholar, and pass for a
man of talents and learning, yet will not think profoundly,
nor readily comprehend first principles, nor bear sounding.
One with the reflecting organs large or very large, and
the perceptive only moderate or small, or with the upper
portion of the forenead much larger than the lower, will
think more than he observes or communicates; will have
much more to do with ideas than with facts ; with funda­
m ental principles and the general bearing of things, than
with their details and minutiae; with the abstract relations,
than with the qualities, of things; with the analytical and
demonstrative sciences, than with the natural; with thoughts
than words; may have great strength, shrewdness, and pen­
etration of intellect, and be a deep and profound reasoner,
but will lack versatility of talent, and be unable to employ
his powers to good advantage, or show what he is, except in
a certain sphere, yet will wear well, have a fund of import­
ant ideas, and excellent judgment, and shine in proportion
as he is tried. One having the perceptive and reasoning or­
gans both large or very large, and a large and an active brain,
will have a universaltalent, and a mind well balanced and well
furnished with both facts and principles; will be a general
scholar, and,witharespectable developmentofthe propensities,
possess a decidedly superiour intellect, and be capable of ri­
sing to eminence; will not only possess talents of a very high
order, but also be able to use them to the bestadvantage, and
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
54 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
both devise and execute projects, and succeedin whatever he
undertakes, even when most of those around him, fail.
One with an even head, in which all the parts are re­
spectably developed, will have few prominent traits of char­
acter, and few excesses or deficiencies; will do a fair busi­
ness, take his character from surrounding circumstances, and
pass quietly through life; but, if the brain is large and very
active, and external circumstances are favourable, he will be
a universal genius—great in every thing, and without any
weak points of character, and capable of swaying a general
and a commanding influence.*
One with an uneven and peculiar head, will possess a sui
generis character; will be notorious for his peculiarities oi
talents and disposition; for his excesses and deficiencies; his
strong and weak points; will often present opposite phases
of character; cut a bold and commanding figure wherever
he moves; and often effect something important.
The combined action of the several organs, has, also, a
very important influence upon the character and the mental
manifestations, particularly in directing them. Self-esteem
large or very large, for example, combined with still larger
moral and reasoning organs, and with smaller propensities,
imparts a dignity, manliness, nobleness, elevation, and high-
mindedness, which scorn every thing mean, low, and de­
grading, than which no trait of character is more useful or
commendable: while the same degreeof self-e., joined with
weaker moral and reasoning faculties, and stronger selfish
propensities, makes its possessor proud, conceited, haughty,
domineering, forward, impertinent, and most disagreeable.
The same principle applies to amat., combat., destruct., se­
cret., firm., approbat., &c.; and, in determining character, is
as important, at least, as any other.
The larger organsf control and direct the smaller ones,
and also give the stamp and direction to the whole char­
acter, while the smaller organs, in proportion to their
strength, modify the actionofthe larger. Thus, one having
combat, and destruct. large, with large or very large self-e.,
will employ the former toavenge personal injuries; promote
selfish interests; domineer over others, &c.; but, with self-e.
* Napoleon Bonaparte.
tin this work theterm “organs” is often used as synonymouswith “faculties,*
and is intended to refer to both the organs and the faculties, collectively; juat as
selfesteem means both the organ and thefaculty of sclf-e.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
I
only moderate or full, and benév. and conscien. very large,
will seldom resent •personal injuries, yetwill be very spirited
in maintainingthe causé ofjustice,truth', and humanity; in de­
fending suffering innocence, punishing the aggressor, driv­
ing forward moral and philanthropick causes, &c. ; with
large or very large acquis., will employ these organs in de­
fending his property, and in prosecuting, with energy, his
nhoney-making projects ; with large or very large intellectu­
al organs, in the vigorous pursuit of intellectual acquire-
ménts,in spiriteddebate, or thefearless declarationofopinion 7
with rifoderate self-e. and largò or very large adhes. and be­
név., in the defence of friends, while he himself patiently
endures oppression, &c. The combinations of the phreno­
logical faculties,' are almost innumerable, especially when
take- in connexion with thévarieties oftemperament, educa­
tion,1hÒbìt* externalcircumstances,' &c. of different individu-
a^-HSdfflcient, at least, to produce that endless diversity and
evér-éhahging variety which eiistin themanifestations ofthè
mind. Hence, here is opened the most extensive held im­
aginable for philosophical research—a field embracing the
whole fringe òf thè mehtaTphenomena, and1also every thing
pertaining to human nature.
COMBINATIONS OF THE FACULTIES. 5J>
Digitized by b o o d l e
.86
1
ANALYSIS OF THE FACULTIES. .
The reader will bear in mind that, in the following anal­
ysis of the various faculties, the author has left ample room
for him to exercise his own judgment and discrimination,
particularly in ascertaining the influence of some of the
combinations. For example: he has described the influence
of the organ of amat. large, when acting in conjunctionwith
other organs; yet as the influence of amat. very large upon
the other organs, is the same in kind with that of amat
large, and differs only in the degree or amount ofthat influ­
ence, the reader is left to ascertain this by a reference to the
combinations under amat. large. The same istrue of amat
full, and of all the other organs very large or moderate.
Under amat. moderate, again, the organ is described be­
low par,with its combinations. Yet these same combina­
tions will also apply to amat. small, after making the neces­
sary allowance for the diminution of the mere quantum of
the amative feeling.
ORDER I.—Affective F aculties or F eelings.
G ENUS I.^ -A nim al P ropensities.
SPECIES I.— D omestics and Social P ropensities.
AMATIVENESS.
Reciprocal attachment and love of the sexes.
This faculty prompts many of those kind attentions
and obliging manners which the sexes are accustomed to
show to each other; greatly increases their mutual attach­
ment and tenderness; gives correct reciprocal ideas of taste
and propriety in whatever concerns the other sex, and se­
cures to them a kind and genteel treatment—thus promoting,
as much as any other faculty, general politeness, urbanity,
refinement, kindness, and social'happiness. The proper ex­
ercise and expression of this faculty, so far from being the
least gross or indelicate, is as perfectly inoffensive as that of
any other; and is so far from being the least exceptionable,
as to be even indispensable, to a virtuous character, especial­
ly when modified by large adhes., approbat., benev., ccn-
•cien., ideal., mirth., and the reasoning faculties. The influ­
ence of this faculty in the intercourse of the sexes, is highly
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by Google ..J
AMATIVENESS. 57
advantageous to both,inasmuch as it has a tendency to make
man civil, courteous, cleanly, and humane, condescending,
polished, affable, &c.; and woman agreeable, graceful, and
elegant, accomplished, sensible, and elevated in character,
feeling, and purpose.
L arge.—One in whom amat. is large, is extremely
fond of the other sex, and of their company, and alive to
their charms; is a favourite with them, and readily ingrati­
ates himself into their good will, even though he may be
possessed of some qualities that are disagreeable; has a
great influence over them; easily kindles in them the pas­
sion of love, because he is himself so susceptible to the
same passion; and, when in circumstances calculated to ex­
cite the faculty, finds its restraint extremely difficult.
One having large amat. with large or very large adhes.,
is an ardent and devoted lover; and, with ideal, also large,
adds tohis love thatwarmth, and fervour,and intensity which
make it romantick, and kindle it to a passion; with firm,
also large or very large, will be constant; but with these or­
gans large or very large, and firm, moderate or small, will
be liable to be inconstant, and possess an attachment by no
means exclusive: with ideal and approbat. very large, se­
cret. and destruct. large, benev., adhes., and caus. only full,
and conscien. moderate or small, will sometimes actthe part
of the coquette, and seek the general admiration ofthe other
sex, rather than be satisfied with individualattachment: with
large or Very large adhes., philopro., benev., and conscien.,
willbeinclined tomarry,ana bepre-eminentlyqualifiedtoen­
joy the family and social relations, and will also highly ap­
preciate tbe joys and pleasures of home, family, and friends;
and, with large combat, and destruct.,will defend them with
boldness, protect their rights with spirit, and punish with se­
verity those who injure them: with large or very large ap-
probat. and ideal., will be over-anxious to obtainthe approba­
tion, and avoid the disapprobation, of the other sex, and
exceedingly sensitive to theirpraise or censure, andtooeager
to follow the fashions demanded by the taste of the other
sek: with moderate acquis., and large approbat. and benev.,
will spend money freely for their sakes: with large or very
large secret, and adhes., will feel much stronger attachment
than express; keep his heart much to himself; affect com-
S ve indifference ; and, even when the fire of love is
ig fiercely within, will expressit equivocally, especial-
3*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
a®. PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED*
ly at first; but with secret, moderate, will express it without
reserve;throw the portals of the heart wideopen: and, with
self-e. moderate, the more readily give up to the dominion of
the passion; but, with selfe. and firm, large or very large,
and large intellectual organs, though he may be deeply in
love, will have too much pridetobesubdued bythis passion:
with very large adhes., ideal., approbat., and mirth.,and caus.
only full, will prefer the company of the beautiful, the gay,
and the accomplished of the other sex, and love them
best: with very large adhes., benev., ven., and conscien.,
will choose the virtuous, the devout, the religious, &c.: with
large intellectual organs in addition, the religious, the refin­
ed, and the highly intellectual, and almost adore them, but
be disgusted with those firstdescribed: with conscien. small,
caus. only full, and acquis, and ideal, large or very large,
will be less particular with regard to their moral qualities:
with large or very large ideal., approbat., mirth., hope, ali­
ment., and lang., and moderate or small acquis., conscien.,
and marvel., is given tojoke with and about the other sex *
andinclinedtoprofligacyand revelry:with large or verylarge
conscien., ideal., mirth., benev., and the reasoning organs
large, will express this passion in a very delicate, refined,
witty, and acceptable manner j but, with moderate or small
ideal, and mirth., in a coarse and vulgar manner: with con­
scien.large, is strongly tempted, but stronglyresists;and,with
firm., cautious.,and caus. also large, willnotyield to thesolic­
itationsofthepassion; but,with firm.,cautious., and caus. only
full,may sometimes sin, yet will deeplyrepentofit; and, with
approbat. large, suffer intolerably from shame and remorse:
with conscien. small and caus. moderate, will be extremely
liable to abuse and pervert this faculty, &c.
Very large.—One having amat.very large, experiences,
at times, the goadings of the propensity to a degree almost
beyond endurance; can govern it only by the aid of large
or very large firm., conscien., and reasoning organs, and by
avoiding the causes calculated toexcite it; and possesses ex­
traordinary depth, strength, and power of this passion. One
having very large amat., with large or very large conscien.,
firm., benev., and reasoning organs, will exercise towards
the other sex, strong feelings of kindness and love; is ever
readyin his attentions to them; is butill at easewithouttheir
society; and enjoys intercourse with them in the greatest
possible degree: with conscien. moderate or small, and the
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
AMATIVENESS. 59
Reasoning organs only full, is stronglyinclined and urged to
profligacy, licentiousness, vulgar allusions, indelicate ex­
pressionsand jesting;totherelation ofobsceneanecdotes, &c.
Bee combinations under amat. large.
F u l l .—Onehaving &m*l.full, with adhes. andideal, large
or very large, will place a high estimateupon the other sex;
eagerly seek their company, and take great delight in it;
be ardent as a lover, and not insensible to their charms;
with good health and an active.temperament, experience,
in a high degree, the influence of this passion, yet will pos­
sess more activity than power. The descriptions of amat
full, when combined with the other organs, will be found
much the same, except in degree, with those given under
amat. large, and will bebetween those underamat. largeand
amat. moderate.
M o d e r a t e .—One having amat. moderate, is not particu­
larly partial to the other sex, nor veryfondoftheircompany;
may enjoy the society of a few select persons of the other
sex, but will dislike their promiscuous society, unless his
adhes., approbat., ideal., mirth., or other organs, create attach­
ment to them, and fondness for their society: with self-e. and
mirth, moderate or small, large or very large secret., appro-
bat., cautious.,conscien., and ven., will be extremely diffident
and reserved, if not awkward and affected, in their company,
and illqualified to shine in parties ofamusement, and will be
rather deficient in the strength and power of this passion.
One having moderate amat., with large or very large adhes.,
benev., and conscien., andfull compar. and caus., will exercise
more ofpure loveand virtuous affection towards the opposite
sex, than of the mere amative passion—of chaste Platonick
affection, than of sexual love— of pure and sentimental
friendship, than of merely animal feeling; and, with large
or very large ideal, and conscien., will manifest this passion
in a peculiarly refined and delicate manner, and beexceed­
ingly disgusted with vulgarity, particularly in the other
sex. This is the kind of attachment generally exercised by
females, in whom adhes. is commonly altogether larger
than amat. When the size ofthese organs is reversed, they
produce the opposite kind of love, or that which is less
sentimental and exclusive, and more promiscuous and sexual.
S m a l l .— One having small amat., is not partial tothe oth­
er sex as such; does not pay them so much attention, nor
wait upon them so genteelly, nor sacrifice so much for their
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
66 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
sake, nor excite their love so easily, as if possessed offull or
large amat., but is rather cold, coy, distant, unacceptable, and
less inclined to marry, unless induced to do so by philopro.,
adhes., approbat., benev., acquis., the intellectual organs, or
some other motive than his sexual desire.
Very Small.—One having amat. very small, is incapa­
ble of sexual attachment or intercourse; seldom, if ever, ex­
periences the workings of this feeling; and is given to pas­
sive continence. This organ is always very small in very
young children, and the passion proportionally weak; it at­
tains its full size in the meridian of life, when the passion is
strongest; is generally larger in married, than in single, per­
sons; and decreases in old age, when the passion becomes
weaker. Phrenology determines the strength and power of
this passion, and its liability to be perverted, rather than the
virtue or licentiousness of the subject. Education and cir­
cumstances determine this question oftener than the strength
ofthe faculty.
The depraved exercise of this faculty, in one or another
of those ten thousand forms which it assumes, is unques­
tionably one of the most prolifick sources of depravity, cor­
ruption, and misery, with,which mankind are afflicted; and
it becomes the philanthropist, the Christian, and especially
the phrenologist, to inquire, why is this? for, until we can
discover the root of this tree ofvice, and attackthe evilthere,
it is in vain to attempt to lop off its branches. This faculty
is found to exist in animals, as well as in man, and that, too,
unrestrained by morality or intellect, and, consequently, far
more liable to perversion, than in the human species; yet,,
instances of its perversion in the brute creation, are exceed­
ingly rare. Now, why is this? The nature of thefaculty,
and the character of the function, are the same in both, so
that its depraved manifestation cannot be attributed to any
natural cause. It must, then, depend upon the education, or
training, of this faculty. And no wonder that it is thus
perverted; for the nature and the proper function of the fac­
ulty, not being generally understood, it has been regarded
chiefly in its perverted manifestation. Hence, that false
modesty, that sickly delicacy, that double-refined fastidious­
ness which pervade every civilized community in regard
to it, and which are far more detrimental tovirtue and purity,
than any thing and every thing else could be. It is not too
much to add, that nearly all the licentiousness which per-
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
✓
▼ ades our country, and yearly ruins scores of thousands!
originates in the false training of this faculty.
The question, then, becomes a most important one, How
can this faculty be so trained that this growing evil may be
checked and remedied? This question will be answered in
a subsequent portion of the work.*
l o c a t io n .—This organ is located in the cerebellum,
or between the mastoid processes behind the ear : and, when
large, it causes this portion of the head to appear broad and
thick ; when small, the neck is thin and narrow.
2. PHILOPROGENITIYENESS.
P aren tal affection and tenderness*—love of offspring, and of
children generally—fondness fo r pets, especially young
anim als, and fo r the infirm arid helpless.
If there existed no particular attachment to children as
such, the burden of raising and ofeducating them, would be
intolerable, and seldom submitted to; whereas the effect of
this faculty is, to make them to their parents the dearest of
all objects, their richest treasure, and their greatest delight,
a source oftheir greatest anxietyand solicitude, and, in short,
the direct and main object of one of the strongest ofthe hu­
man passions, as well as the indirect object of many others ;
and this casts entirely into thè shade the trouble, and pain,
and expense which they cause, and induces theparent to do,
and to suffer, whatever is deemed necessary, and often what
is entirely unnecessary-, to promote the happiness and the
best interests of his child, especially the young child. While
children are yet too young to be regarded as friends—the
very time they require the greatest attention—they cannot
be the legitimate objects of adhes., and, for a similar reason,
they cannot come, under the exclusive care ofbenev., ofcon-
scien., of reason, or, indeed, of any other faculty ; so that, if
PHILOPKOGENITIVENBSS. 61
* When this portion of the work was stereotyped, the author intended to add to
the work some moral hints and reflections in the form of a supplement, but, as the
work progressed, it reached three times the size originally contemplated, without
even then allowing room forthis portion of the matter, besides crowding out many
other things at first contemplated. See note at the bottom ofpage 401.
This will also serve to explain some other references in the work to parts not yet
added, but which will eventually be published in a separate volume.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
62 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
there were nofacultyexclusivelydevoted tothem,they would
never receive that care, and those unnumbered attentions,
which their helpless condition demands even to maintain
them in existence.
Withoutthis faculty,the action ofthe other faculties would
be less vigorous towards children than towards others;
whereas, their wants demand a much more vigorous exer;
cise of them in their favour. But, with philopro. to
direct and stimulate their action towards children, their pro­
tection and nursing, difficult and even painful as they may
be, are abundantly secured.
It is, moreover, evident, that the duties and the circum­
stances of woman require of her a much greater endow­
ment of this faculty than is required of the other sex. Ac­
cordingly we find, thatshe possesses a much larger organ of
philopro. than man. This adaptation ofthe organ in females
tothefor greater power ofthe passion, and of both to the far
greater demand made upon them by their offspring, is cer­
tainly no unimportant argument in proof of the truth of
phrenology.
L a r g e .— One having large philopro., is deeplyinterested
in children; delighted with their company and playfulness,
and even sports with, them; generally notices them, and ea­
sily gains their affections, by which their government and
education are.greatly facilitated; and, if a parent, willingly
endures paternal care and toil; spares no pains in educating
them; and considers them the richest of treasures: with
adhes. very large, experiences poignant grief at the loss of
children; and, with concent large, will pour incessantly
over it, but with concent, moderate or small, will feel keenly
for the time being, yet frequently be relieved by a change ox
the subject of feeling: with large amat. and adhes., feels
powerfully the reciprocal attachment of fathers and daugh­
ters, of mothers ana sons, and of adults and children of op­
posite sexes: with full combat, and destruct, and large or very
large adhes., benev., conscien., firm., and intellectual organs,
punishes children when their owngood demands it; is kind,
yet strict; governs them with decision mingled with mild­
ness and affection, and, with self-e. full, speaks with the au­
thoritynecessarytosecure their obedience; but, with combat
and destruct large, is by turns too indulgent and toosevere:
and, with self-e. moderate, fails to secure their obedience and
respect, and allows them to trample upon him: with large
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
or very large adhes.t benev., ven., firm., conscien., hope,
compar., and caus., and moderate approbat. and ideal., will
regard their religious, moral, and intellectual character as of
primary importance; their usefulness, rather than their dis­
tinction ; and endeavour to give them a practical and sub­
stantial, rather than an ornamental education.
Very Large.—One having very large philopro., is pas­
sionately fond of children, and has them always around him;
and, with very large benev., and moderate destruct. and caus.,
is in danger of spoiling them by excessive fondness and over-
indulgence ; is extremely fond of pets of some description,
such as pet dogs, pet horses, and the young and tender of
animals generally; is willing to endure the greatest priva­
tions if he can thereby promote their happiness; values them
above every thing else, and almost idolizes them; and, with
adhes. very large, grieves immoderately at their loss, or is
overcome by it: with moderate or small destruct. and con­
scien., “sparesthe rod and spoils the childwith very large
approbat. or self-e., and only moderate or full conscien. and
caus., indulges parental vanity and conceit; thinks his own
children much smarter than those of others; delights to ex­
hibit their great attainments, &c.; and, if very large ideal,
be added, would be likely to educate them for show and effect
—to teach them the ornamental and fashionable, to the ne*
gleet of the more substantial, branches of learning—the fine
arts, rather than useful learning; thus making them self-im­
portant fops, and vain and guady belles, rather than useful
members of society: with very large cautious., indulges a
multitude of groundless fears and unfounded apprehensions
about them, and borrows a world of troubleon their account:
with benev. very large, and acquis, only moderate, makes
them many presents; with the moral and intellectual organs
also large or very large and well-cultivated, has a happy
talent for instructing them, and delights in it.
F ull.—One having philopro. /w/Z, will take considerable
interest in children, especially when they begin to walk and
prattle; bear much from them, particularly when combat,
and destruct. are only moderate; and, when they are pos­
sessed of high intellectual charms, will often notice and play
with them, and generally please them; and, if he has chil­
dren of his own, will make strenuous efforts and great sacri­
fices to provide for, and to educate, them; but, with combat,
and destruct. larger than philopro., will be rather iroDati««*
Digitized by LooQle
64 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
when troubled by them, and sometimes severe with them:
with large or very large adhes., benev., conscien., firm., and
reasoning organs, and self-e. and combat., at least, foil, wiH
love children, yet be far from spoiling them by over-indul­
gence, and generally secure their obedience, yet seldom be
harsh towards them.
Moderate.—One having philopro. moderate, is not very
fond of children., and cannot bear much from them; may
sometimestake someinterestin them, yet does not like young
children; may love hisown,yetdoesnotfancythose of others.
One withphilopro. moderate and adhes. large, may love chil­
dren asfriends rather than as children ; and, withbenev. and
conscien. also large, will take all needful care of them from
feelings of kindness and duty, without being partial to chil­
dren as such.
Small.—Onehaving philopro. small, with combat, and de-
struct. large, is generally severe, and easily vexed, with chil­
dren ; and, with self-e. also large, and benev. only mod*
erate or full, isdomineering, haughty, and arbitrary towards
them, and thus extremely unpopularwith them, and delights
to torment and tease them.
Very Small.—One with philopro. very small,will be a
stranger tothis passion, anddeal with children entirely as his
other organs dictate.
Location.—This organ is located in the centre of the
hind head, just above the sharp point of the occipital bone,
and back of the top of the ears. When the lobes of adhes.
aTe large or very large, and philopro. is moderate or small,
a depression will be found between the lower portion of the
two lobes of adhes., but when philopro. is also large or very
large, this portion of the head will be elongated, as in the
cut of Aurelia Chase. When philopro. and adhes. are both
large, and inhab. is small, itassumes a sharpened appearance,
running horizontally between the two lobes ofadhes.
3. ADHESIVENESS.
Susceptibility of attachment—propensity to associate—fond­
ness for society— inclination to love, and desire to be loved.
The chief office of this organ is to create those strong
ties of social and, with amat., of conjugal affection, which
Bind mankind together in families, societies, communities^
Digitized by LooQle
ADHESIVENESS. 65
&c., and from which probably flows as much happiness, if
not virtue, as from any other source. This faculty is very
strong, and generally a ruling one, in females; and its in­
fluence upon society, is incalculable.
L a r g e .—One having adhes. large, exercises strong and
ardent attachment; is eminently social and affectionate;
seeks every opportunity to enjoy the company offriends, and
feels very unhappy when deprived of it; does and sacrifices
much for their sake; sets much by them, and goes far to
see and help them; and makes a real, true, warm-hearted,
and devoted friend. One having adhes. large, with combat,
and destruct. large, readily takes the part of friends; resents
and retaliates their injuries; protects their rights, interests,
character, &c., as readily as he does his own; and, with
self-e. only moderate or full, even more so; and yet, with
self-e. large or very large, will occasionally fall out with
them :with acquis, large, maylove strongly, and be very hos­
pitable and kind, yet unwilling to give his money; but,with
approbat. and benev. also large, may be liberal among his
friends, and sometimes forward to discharge the social bill,
yet will beas affectionateas he isliberal; isvery emulous to
excel among friends, and cut to the heart by their reproach­
es'; and, if approbat. or self-e. is very large, and causvgnly
full, is jealous of those that excel him, and forward among
friends; assumes the lead; and must be first or nothing:
with moderatecombat., destruct., and self-e., and large or very
large approbat.,benev., conscien., ideal., mirth., and reasoning
organs, will have many friends and fewenemies; be amiable,
and gain the good will of all who know him: with large
ideal., will express his affection in a refined and delicate
manner, and with mirth, large, in a pleasing, jocose, and
lively manner: with large or very large event., will recol­
lect, with vivid emotions of delight, by-gone scenes of social
cheer and friendlyintercourse: with large reasoningorgans,
will give good advice to friends; lay excellent plans for
them; rightly appreciate their character; and, with cautious,
also large, be judicious in selecting them, &c.
Very l a r g e .—Those who have adhes. very large, or
predominant, instinctively recognise it in each other; soon
become mutually and strongly attached; desire to cling
around the objects of their love; take more interest and de­
light in the exercise of friendship than in any thing else;
are unwilling to think or believe ill of their friends; sym­
Digitized by LO O Q le
66 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
pathize in their misfortunes; dread an interruptionof friend­
ship as the greatest of calamitiesj and willingly sacrifice
ease, property, happiness, reputation,and sometimes even life
fortheir sakes. Their friends maybefew, but will be dear,
and their attachment mutual, ardent, strong, and, with firm,
large, constant; their joys, hopes, fears,trials, &c. one;their
social intercourse delightful beyond description; their sepa­
ration, painful, in the extreme ; their loss, agonizing, almpst
beyond endurance; and the interruption of friendship, a fre­
quent source of partial derangement.
One having very large adhes., with large or very large
destruct., combat, self-e., firm., and benev., and only mode­
rate or small approbat, secret., and conscien., will be a mqsH
ardent friend and anequally bitter enemy; will never forget
a favour or an injury, till the one is rewarded^ and the other
avenged or confessed; cannotdotoomuchgood tohisfriends,
nor evil to his foes; and will make all his acquaintance ei­
ther ardent friends, or bitter enemies: with very Large phi-(
lopro. and large amat., sets every thing by his family,t^ncj*
almost idolizesthem; takes more dedighjtin hppieand
than in any thing*, if not in every thing, besides; cannot en-’
dure to be absent from home; is pre-eminently domestick;
and, with very large benev. and conscien., prhmotes their
happiness by every effort, and by every sacrificein his pow­
er, and deeply sympathizes in their distress; and,; with
moderate combat, and destruct., regards the peace and
quiet of the fireside as the greatest of pleasures, and family
dissension as the worst of evils; and does everything in his
Eower to promote domestick quiet and happiness, &c. One
aving large or very large adhes., loves those best, and
chooses them for his friends, who most nearly resemblehim­
self, and gratify the largest number of his organs: with
large or very large approbat, hope, ideal., and mirth., arid
only moderate conscien. and caus., the gay and witty, the
fashionable and showy, &c.: with large or very large mor­
al organs, the eminently devout and religious,the sedateand
the sentimental: with large or very large ideal, and intellec­
tual organs, those who are highly talented, intellectual, and
literary, but avoids the ignorant: with very large conscien.*
requires, firstof all, that his friends be perfectly moral and,
honest, but with conscien.moderate, is not particular in this
rnspect.
F ull.—One having adhes.fuU, will make a social, com-
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
ADHESIVENESS. 67
panionable, warm-hearted friend, who will sacrifice much ai
the shrine of friendship, yet sacrifice his friendship on the
altar ofthe stronger passions; his friendship, though strong
and ardent, will be less glowing and intense than that
produced by large adhes. One having adhes. full, with
large or very large combat., destruct., self-e., approbat., and
acquis., will serve himself first, and his friends afterwards;
form attachments, yet break them when they come in con­
tact with the exercise of these organs ; and, with large se­
cret. and small conscien., will not be at all desirable as a
friend, yet, after all, set considerable by his friends: with
very large benev., large conscien., approbat., and firm., only
moderate or full combat., destruct., and secret., and full
or large intellectual organs, will be very good company ;
desirableasafriend ; liberal, well-disposed,true to hisfriends,
and always ready to do them a favour. Many of the com­
binations under adhes. large, will apply, except in degree, to
adhes. full, in the selection of which, as in many similar
cases, the reader will use his own compar.
Moderate.—One having adhes. moderate,may be some­
what fond of society, and exercise some attachment to his
friends, yet will sacrifice it upon unimportantconsiderations,
and; though he may haVe many acquaintances, will have no
intimate and very dear friends : with large combat, and de-
, struct., will become easily offended with friends, and seldom
retain a friend long : with large benev., will bestow his ser­
vices, and, with moderate acquis., his money, more readily
than his affections; and, with the selfish organs large, take
care of himself first, making friendship subservient to sel­
fish purposes
Small.—One having adhes. small, thinks and cares little
about friends; takes little delight in*their company; prefers
to live and act alone; is cold-hearted, unsocial, and selfish;
has fewfriends, and, with large or very large selfish organs,
a great many enemies, because he is himself so inimical to
others. See combinations under adhes. moderate.
Very small.—when adhes. is very small,its influence is
notobservable, and thesubject,a perfectstrangertofriendship.
While amat. is generally much smaller, adhes., philopro.,
benev., and conscien., are commonly very much larger in fe­
males than in males,by which the former are qualified, in a
preeminent degree, to enjoy the domestick and social rela­
tions, and to discharge the duties of their station.
Digitized by b o o d l e
68 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Location.—The location of this organ is outward and
upward from philopro., and above amat, and its shape near­
ly oval
4. INHABITIVENESS.
Love ofhomeand country—desire to locate and remain in
one spot—attachment to theplace in which one has lived.
That there often exists a partiality towards particular
places, and for no other reason than that one has lived there,
is a verycommon phenomenon, and even necessaryto man’s
happiness and well-being. This class of functions must be
produced by some faculty; and the fact that its organ is
found adjoining philopro. and adhes., the objects of which
it‘directly and essentially aids, affords presumptive and ana­
logical proof both of its existence and of the correctness of
its location.
Large.—One having inhab. large, will have a very
strong desire to locatehimselfin a single spot which he can
call his home, and to remain there; leaves the place of his
nativityandabode with thegreatest reluctance, and returnsto
them withdelight;soonbecomesstronglyattachedtohis house,
his office, his garden, his fields, &c., and is generally satis­
fied with them; thinks a great deal of hisnative town, state,
and country, and, when away from them, of those that have
lived in them, &c. Onehaving inhab. large,with philopro.,
adhes., ideal., individ., and local, large or very large, will be
extremely fond of travelling,yet too fond of home to absent
himself long at a time; in early life, will have an insatiable
desire to rove about and see the world, and afterwards to set­
tle: with approbat and self-e. large or very large, will have
high ideas of his country, of national honour, national ad­
vantages and privileges, &c.; and, with large or very large
combat, and destruct, will be eminently patriotickand ready
to sacrifice all, even life itselfj in defence of his country’s
rightsand honour, and ofhis ownfireside; and, with large or
very large ven., will look with great reverence to those de­
parted worthies who have served and honoured their coun­
try, and also to the national relicks of past ages.
Very large.—One having inhab. very large, will be
sometimes homesick, especially if philopro. and adhes. are
also very large; will suffer almost any inconvenience, and
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
INHABITIVENESS. 09
foregobright prospects of acquiring wealth, &c., sooner than
leave his hom e; and experience, only in a proportionally
higher degree, the feelings attributed to this organ large.
F ull.— One having this organ full, will prefer to live in
one spot, yet, when his interests require it, can change the
place of his abode without much regret; and, with large
philopro. and adhes., will think much more of his family
and his friends, than he will of his home as such.
Moderate or small.— One having inhab. moderate or
sm all, with large or very large hope, individ., ideal., and lo­
cal., will be very apt to change his location either in hopes
o f improving it, or to see the world; will have an insatiable
desire to travel in foreign parts; unless prevented by strong
reasons, will be likely to live, at different times, in several dif­
ferent places; and, with philopro. and adhes. large, will regard
his home not for its own sake, but for the sake offamily and
friends, and will not, by his mere love of home, be prevented
from going where his interest or business leads him, nor
be likely to suffer from a want of home.
Very small.— W hen this faculty is very small, its oper­
ation has no perceptible influence upon the character.
The author has seen numerous, striking developments of
the organ in conjunction with a proportionate strength of the
faculty ; and also many other instances of the deficiency both
of the organ and of the faculty. One of the most striking of
the former, is the case of Judge Tucker of W illiamsburgh,
Va., half-brother of the late John Randolph, who, while yet in
the prime of life, left a very lucrative and honourable pro­
fession for the sole purpose of living and dying where his
fathers had lived and died. The organ is extremely large in
his head, and also the organs of adhes. and philopro. The
author might mention hundreds of others equally in point.
Between Spurzheim and Combe there exists a difference
of opinion concerning this faculty and that of concent. Dr.
Spurzheim gives the location and analysis of inhab. similar
to that contained in this work, but maintains that the organ of
concent, does not exist; while Mr. Combe maintains, that the
organ of concent, (which will be next analyzed) occupies near­
ly the same position. But from the numerous and marked
cases of a development of each organ in the absence of the
other, and the perfect coincidence between the strength of
these faculties and the size of their respective organs, of
which, in no instance, has he seen a failure, the author is
Digitized by Google
70 FHRKNOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
thoroughly convinced that both are substantially correct-»
that there are two organs as analyzed and located in this
work.
Location.—The location of inhab. is directly above phi-
lopro., and partly between, and partly above, the two lobes
of adhes. Where it is large or very large, and concent
moderate, an angle is formed near the unionofthe lambdoi
dal sutures, between which and the occipital bone, there will
be considerable distance, but when it is small, no such organ
will be found.
5. CONCENTRATIVENESS.
Thepower of menial concentration and continuity.
The object of this faculty is to continue the operations of
the other faculties upon any given subject, until they have
thoroughly acted upon it, and presented the result The
nature ofthe faculty may not yet have been fully analyzed,
yet, ofthe phenomena ascribed to it,there can be no question.
Large.—One having large concent, is thereby enabled
and disposed to keep his whole mind patiently fixed, for a
long time,upon a single thing; tocontinue the existing train
of thought, feeling, &c., and to exclude every other; to im­
partunity and mutual dependencetopropositions, arguments,
paragraphs, parts of a sentence, &c.; to dwell patiently on
any subject of interest, and, with large intellectual organs, to
go to the bottomofsubjects; to investigatethem thoroughly;
torun out processes of reasoning, and chains ofthought, &c.,
in all their bearings and consequences; to give his whole
mind to one, and but one, thing at a time; and to hold his
mindtoatrain ofthought, subjectofstudy,pieceoflabour, &c.,
till they are entirely completed. It imparts a unity and con­
nectedness toall the conceptionsand operations ofthemind,
and yet, in doing this, prevents that intensity, and rapidity,
and variety which are manifested without it. One having
concent large, with large combat and destruct., will prolong
the exercise of anger: with cautious, large, that of fear:
with ideal large, flights ofimagination, &c.
Very large.—One having coucent. very large, is con­
fused if several things claim attention at once; requires a
long time to fix his mind upon any particular subject, or to
divert it whenonce fixed; in conversation, is apt tobe prolix
and tedious, and wear his subjects threadbare, ahd, if inter
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
CONCENTRATIVENESS. 71
rupted, is greatly disturbed, if not vexed: with individ. moder­
ate or small, and the reasoning organs large or very large, is
frequently abstract, absent minded, and so deeply buried in
meditation, as to be unconscious of what is transpiring around
him, and often dwells so long upon a subject, as to distort it,
and pursue ifc into absurd extremes. The style of Dr.
Chalmers, and also of Dr. Thomas Brown, will serve as il­
lustrations of the effect which this faculty produces upon the
manner of communicating ideas.
F ull.— One having concent, fu ll, will be inclined todwell
upon a thing to which his attention has been called, and also
to impart as much perfection as may be to the operations of his
mind, yet, when occasion requires, can change, withoutmuch
difficulty, from one subject to another, and thus attend to a
variety of objects within a limited time, and will preserve a
happy medium between too great prolixity, and too great
brevity.
Moderate or small.— One with concent, moderate or
small, is able and inclined to pass rapidly and easily from
one kind of study, book, conversation, thought, feeling, busi­
ness, occupation, &c. to another, from point to point, in argu­
ment, without connecting or arranging them; does not sys­
tematically arrange his subjects; fails to impart mental de­
pendence to his sentences, paragraphs, propositions, and
parts of a discourse, so that many of them could be omitted
without affecting the rest; throws out his thoughts in con­
cise and distinctpropositions, rather than in long paragraphs;
stops when he has finished, and even before he has suffi­
ciently illustrated, his.ideas, passes to others, and again re­
turns ; abridges his anecdotes and sentences by the omission
of important particulars; drops one sentence, subject, anec­
dote, &c. to commence another, and forgets what he was be­
ginning to say; wanders, in contemplation, through a great
variety ofdifferent or opposite subjects; throws off care and
trouble easily, and keeps no organ long in connected action
unless itis powerfully excited.
One having concent, moderate or small, with adhes. large,
thinks ofhis friends for the time being with vivid and intense
emotion, but only for a short time at once, yet is not, there­
fore, inconstant in his attachments: with combat, and des-
truct. large, may get angry quickly, but, unless the injury is
deep and intended, cannot retainhis anger: withtheintellec­
tual organs generally large or very large, will bemore likely
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
72 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
to make rather a general, than a critical, scholar, and more
apt to have a smattering of all the sciences, than a profound
knowledge ofany; soon gets weary ofone book, study, &c.,
takes up another, and then returns to the first, thus studying
by piecemeal; prefers short pieces upon various subjects to
long ones upon any—a newspaper toabook, &c.: with corn-
par. large or very large, may have bold and original ideas
upon a variety of subjects, yet will not, without great effort,
or great excitement, have a chain of connectedthoughts upon
any, and will make rather a striking and immediate, than a
lasting,impression: with ideal., imitat.,mirth., individ., event,
lang., and the reasoning organs large or very large, will
make a better extempore speaker than writer, may give vari­
ety, but will never give copiousness, to conversation and dis­
course j will lack the requisite patience to prepare his ideas
for critical reading,and yet possess great versatility oftalent
For the merchant, accountant, superintendent, and those who
are called upon toattendtoa great many differentpersonsand
things, moderate or small concent, is indispensable,and large
or very large concent., extremely detrimental.
Very Small.—One having concent, very small, has só
great a thirst for variety, and change of occupation, and is
sorestless and impatient, that he cannot continue long enough
at any one thing to effect much, and will experience, only in
a still greater degree, the phenomena described under the
head ofconcent, moderate or small.
In the American head this organ is generally moderate or
small, whichperfectlycoincides withtheversatilityoftheirtal­
ents, and variety oftheft occupations. They oftenpursue sev­
eral kinds of business at once, while the English and Ger­
mans, in whom the organ is generally large, experience the
greatest difficulty in pursuing any other calling or occupa­
tion than that in which they were educated. The want of
this organ constitutes a great defect in the American charac­
ter, which is still farther increased by the variety of studies
pressed upon the attention ofeach student in our schools and
seminaries. This, indeed, constitutes one ofthe greatest de­
fects in the present system ofeducation. It is generally full
or large in those who spend their lives in doing a single
thing, such as factory tenders: and this furnishes an impor­
tant hint to those who wish to cultivate the faculty. It is
generally, though erroneously, supposed,that a large endow*
ment of this faculty is necessary to great power of mind,
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
V lT lT IY E N E S S.
and a transcendant genius. The fact is far otherwise.
Franklin evidently possessed but a small portion of it; and
perhaps the majority of eminent men whom it has been the
fortune of the authorjo examine, have possessed but an in­
different endowment of this faculty. When it is weak, the
mind seizes at once what it seizes at all, and acts with so
much rapidity, that a second subject is introduced before the
first is completed, or, at least, before these operations are
fully presented and illustrated ; so that such persons are lia­
ble to be frequently misunderstood from a want of sufficient
explanation. Concentration of thought, 6tyle, and feeling,
intensity and power of mind, in which there is produced, as
it were, a focus of feeling or of intellect, is the result, not, as is
generally supposed, of concent, large or very large, but, of
concent, moderate or small, an active temperament, and
large or very large intellectual faculties. Large concent., as
it were, dilutes or amplifies the mental operations.
The difference between concent, and firm, is this; con­
cent, bears upon the particular mental operations for the
time being, while large firm, has reference to the general
opinions, plans, &c., of life. For example; one having con­
cent. small, and firm, large or very large, will naturally pre­
fer an occupation in which hisattention would be rapidly call­
ed to successive things, all of which would have reference
to his grand object of pursuit, and from which he could not
easily be diverted. If he were a merchant, he would pursue
his mercantile calling with perseverance, yet he would be
able, without confusion, to wait upon many different custom­
ers w'ithin a short time, &c.
L o c a t io n .—This organ islocated above inhab.and adhes.,
and below self-e. When it is large or very large, a general
fulness ofthis region will be observable,but r\oprotuberance
will be apparent; but when it is moderate or small, a pro­
portionate semicircular depression will be very perceptible,
in part encircling adhes. and inhab.,and following the lamb-
doidal sutures. When inhab. is alsosmall, the depression is
widened at the union ofthese sutures.
t—VITATIVENESS.
Love of life as such—unwillingness to die.
It is evident that a desire to live, disconnected"with anyof
the comforts of life,and, also, with all the objects to be secur-
4
73
Digitized by Google
74 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
ed by living, constitutes a strong passion, not only in man,
but, likewise, in some classes of animals. In some, this in­
stinctive love of life, and this fearful shrinking from death,
amount to a passion,and nothing is regarded with more ter-
rour than dying. Hence the necessity of a faculty whose
office it is to perform this class of functions, and, also, ofa
portion ofthe brain, by means of which it can manifest these
functions.
The author became acquainted with Dr. Gibson, one of
the editors of the Washington Telegraph, in whom the or­
gan is very small, and who, when seemingly at the point of
Heath, in consequence of a wound he had received, not only
felt very little desire to live, or fear of death, but even exer­
cised his mirth., which is large, in a high degree, although
in the expectation that each hour would be his last.
L arge.—One having vitat. large, aside from the enjoy­
ment of lifeand thefear of death, will look upon life asone
of the most desirable of all objects, and upon death as 11the
king of terrours.” This desire to live will also be increas­
ed by the desires of the other faculties. One having vitat
large, with the domestick facultiesstrong, will desire to live,
not only because he looks upon his existence here as a most
desirable object, but, likewise, on account of his family and
friends: with acquis, large or very large, for the purpose of
amassing wealth : with the intellectual organs large, to ac­
quire knowledge: with approbat.and self-e. large, to gratify
bis ambition, &c.; but, when these organs are interrupted or
disappointed—when adhes., forexample, is wounded by the
loss of dear friends, acquis., by the loss of property, appro-
bat., by disgrace, &c., the sufferings thus caused, may be so
much greater than his love of life, that the individual may
wish to die, and, by the aid of destruct., seek relief in self-
destruction.
Very large:—To one with this faculty very large, even
the thought of dying will be dreadful, and he will most te­
naciously cling to life, even though it be most miserable.
The combinations under this head, except in degree, arethe
same as those under vitat. large.
F ull.—One having vitat.full, with other organs largeor
very large, will desire to live,but rather as a secondary, than
a primary, object; and on account of his other faculties,
rather than on account of his vitat.
Moderate or small.—One with vitat moderate or
Digitized by L.ooQle
COMBATIVENESS. 75
sm all, will seldom think of dying, and when he does, will
6e much more affected by the consequences of death, than
by a love of life; be less careful of his health, and those
means calculated to lengthen life,than he would be with vitat
large. In this case, death will be preferred to trouble, and
life desired rather as a means, than as an end, and for the
objects sought to be accomplished.
V e r y sm a l l .—When vitat. is very small,a desiretolive,
and a shrinking from death, as such,and per sese,will never
be thought of.
L o c a t io n .—Vitat. is located nearly beneath the mastoid
process, and partly between amat. and destruct. Seecuts.
6. COMBATIVENESS.
Propensity to defend, resist, and oppose.
The influence of combat, upon the other faculties, and,
indeed, upon the whole character, manifests itself, not only
in physical, but also in moral and intellectual, opposition.
Its action is necessary whenever, in the execution of a diffi­
cult project, any thing is to be resisted or overcome. It acts
upon animate, as well as upon inanimate, objects, and imparts
to its possessor that nerve and determination which induce
him to grapple with all his undertakings, asthough he could
and would effect his purposes.
The direction of this faculty, and the character of its man­
ifestations, are determined chiefly by its combinations, and
the education or breeding of the individual. When it is
under the control of the higher sentiments and of reason,
and directed to its proper objects, no manifestation of the
mind is more virtuousor more praise-worthy; but when not
thus controlled and directed, its manifestation is odious and
vicious in the extreme. It was by this organ, directed, aided,
and stimulated by conscien., self-e., the domestick faculties,
reason, &c., that our ancestors achieved our ever-glorious
Independence; and yet, from this organ in its perverted
manifestation, originate those party strifes, family and village
dissensions, bickerings and quarrels, mobs and physical
combats which disgrace humanity.
L a r g e .—One having combat, large, with self-e. full, and
firm, large, will be eminently qualified to meet difficulties;
overcome obstacles; brave dangers; endure hardships; con­
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
76 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
tend for privileges; maintain and advocate opinions; resist
encroachments; resent injuries and insults, &c.; will defend
his rights to the very last; suffer no imposition; seize upon
whatever he undertakes with the spiritand determination re­
quisite to carry it through all opposing difficulties; rather
glory in opposition than shrink from it; be always ready, if
not glad, to act upon the defensive, if not upon the offensive;
inclined to call in question, and oppose, the opinions and the
proceedings of others, and partly from pure love of opposi­
tion ; will often urge his own opinions; generally take
sides upon every contested question; and, with approbat. also
large, will seek to distinguish himself: with a full or large
brain, will possess energy and force of character in an emi­
nent degree; and, with an active temperament, unless restrain­
ed by large benev., conscien., and caus., will be naturally too
violent and too hasty in his temper, and subject to sudden
ebullitions of passion.
One having combat, large, with large destruct., will unite
harshness, and severity, and a kind of fierceness with his re­
sistance, and frequently showquite too much spirit, and, with
an active temperament, will not only be quick tempered, but,
also, very severe and vindictive when roused; but, with de­
struct. moderate or small, may be quick to resent and resist,
and cool and intrepid inthe onset, yet will inflictas little pain
as possible; will conquer, yet spare the vanquished, and can
never punish one whohas surrendered, especially if conscien.
and benev. are large or very large; ismorecourageous than
cruel; more petulent than violent; more passionate than
harsh; and, when anger is manifested, will not add to it that
fierceness, and that spirit of revenge, which give it a threat­
ening aspect, and make it dreadful: with very large self-e.,
large destruct., and the selfish propensities stronger than the
moral and reasoning faculties, will protect himself and his
own exclusive privileges first of all; seem to claim the ser­
vices of others merely upon the ground of his own superiori­
ty, and without thinking of returning an equivalent, and,
perhaps, abuse those wrho infringe upon his rights, and, with
conscien. moderate or small, those also who donotrender him
all the service and honour he claims; will seldom evince
gratitude for favours received, because he will feel that they
of right belong to him ; will be naturally selfish and jealous,
and apt to treat his fellow men, except those whom he con­
descends to make his particular friends, with a kind of con­
Digitized by Google
COMBATIVENESS. 77
tempt, and if they cross his path, with scorn: with acquis,
large or very large, self-e. large, and caus. only full, will de­
fend his property; stand out for every farthing that belongs
to him ; and be very angry at those through whom he may
have sustained any pecuniary loss; but, with acquis, only
moderate, and self-e. or approbat. large or very large, will
permit the injury of his property with comparative impunity,
yet boldly sustain his injured honour,and preserve his char­
acter unsullied to the last, costhim what it may: with self-e.
only moderate, and adhes. large, will suffer others to impose
upon himself, yet will take the part of a friend with a great
deal more readiness and warmth of feeling than he would
hiß own part: with amat. large, will defend the other sex
soonerthan himself or his own sex—the character, the per­
son, &c., ofa lover, sooner than ofhimself, &c.: with concent,
and destruct. moderate or small, and an active temperament,
will be subjecttosudden bursts of passion, which will contin­
ue but for a moment, and then leave him as calm as before,
and, perhaps, vexed with himselfbecause he cannot suppress
his anger: with lang, and the reasoning organs large, is
extremely fond of debate; very much inclined to start objec­
tions to what has been said ; to argue on the opposite side of
the question, even in opposition tohis real belief, merely from
love of argument; and,with large firm., though vanquished,
will argue still.
V e r y L a r g e .—The manifestations ofcombat, very large,
are much the same with those under the head ofcombat, large,
except when it is combined with large or very large seife,
or approbat., firm, and destruct., and only moderate or full
conscien., secret., benev., ven., and caus., in which case
.it actuates one to attack and provoke others without suffi­
cient cause; to dispute and quarrel with those around him;
crowd himself forward; push his opinions on others; create
disturbance; kindle strife; encourage quarrels and engage
in them; and creates a quarrelsome, combative, contentious
spirit. One having very large combat., with large destruct.,
isterribleand desperate inthe onset; andfights with fierceness
and determination : with large amat., philopro., and adhes.,
will fight for his family, yet quarrel with them himself: with
large acquis., will quarrel for a penny: with large or very
large benev., conscien., and reasoning organs, will be able
to regulate his anger only by turning abruptly from his op­
ponent, and by avoiding every thing calculated to excite his
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
78 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
combative spirit; find extreme difficulty in governing his
anger, and, when really roused, be desperate.
F ull.—One having combat, full, is always ready, when
opposition is called for, to engage in it, and, with a nervous
temperament, soon excited to resent and resist, and natural­
ly quick-tempered; will possess all necessary boldness and
efficiencyofcharacter,andrather courtoppositionthanshun it;
yet will be far from beingquarrelsome, or seeking opposition
lor its own sake. One having combat, full, with conscien.,
firm., benev., andcaus. large or very large, though his anger
is strong, will generally govern it ; will be mild, kind,well-
disposed, and peaceable; avoid quarrelling and contention,
and yet possess a large share of moral courage, and owe the
combative spirit he may manifest, moreto the powerful stimu­
lus he may experience, than to the natural activity and
power of the passion; will show this feeling more in his
business, and in moral and intellectual resistance, than in
quarrelsomeness or physical combat; and seldom employ
physical force, except when powerfully excited; but, with a
predominance of the other selfish faculties, will possess an
unenviable temper. The combinations under combat, large,
will apply, except in degree, to combat, full.
M o d e r a t e .—One having combat, moderate, will contend
no more than thecasereally demands, and sometimesnot even
as much; will not tamely allow himself or otherstobe really
abusedandtrampledupon,and yet,will bearlongbefore hewill
manifest resistance, and be quite as forbearing as manliness
and virtue will allow; will dislike quarrelling and avoid it
as long as possible; may be irritable from the irritability of
his temperament, yet is by no means contentious; will not be,
in reality, tame and cowardly, nor yet very efficient; will
exercise but little indignation, and be amiable, peaceable,
easy with all, quiet, and inoffensive.
One having combat, moderate, with self-e. moderate or
small, and large or very large philopro., adhes., acquis.,
benev., and conscien., will contend for children, family,
friends, the oppressed, his religious opinions, moral princi­
ples, &c., with much spirit, and yet, suffer personal abuse
with impunity: with large or very large self-e., firm., con­
scien., and the reasoning organs, will maintain his opinions
with stability, and pursue his plans with firmness, and yet,
do it in a quiet, but firm and effectual, manner; seek to ac­
complish whatever he undertakes without opposition; act
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
COMBATIVENESS. 79
chiefly upon the defensive; make but little noise or bustle,
yet hold on and persevere till his purposes and plans are
carried through; and, with cautious, also large, willtake the
castle rather by siege than by storm ; accomplish considera­
ble, and in the best manner, but must take his own time for
it; and will be distinguished for his stability, judgment,
and success: with large or very large caus. and compar.,
and large intellectual organs generally, will not distinguish
himself in argument or debate, unless when powerfully ex­
cited, yet, if his head islarge, will then beoriginal and logical,
and express many important ideas; becharacterized more by
perspicuity, and force of reason, than by passion and fervour
of feeling, &c.
Small.—One having combat, small, will be unable and
unwilling to encounter his fellowmen ; be mild, amiable, in­
offensive, and rather inefficient; lack spirit, and presence of
mind in time of danger; quail too quick under opposition,
and shrink from it; love peace and seek it, even at a great
personal sacrifice; avoid quarrelling; endeavour toreconcile
the contending; surrender rights rather than contend for
them; endure oppression rather than shake it off, tako
abuse in goodpart; beforbearing, and generally beloved; and,
with destruct. moderate, whatever may be his otherqualities,
will be unable toeffect any thing of importance, or cuta figure
in the world ; and, with large or very large domestick, moral,
and intellectual organs, will seek his chief gratification in re­
tirement fromthe noise and bustleofactiveand publick life,in
literaryand scientifickacquirements, religious exercises, &c.;
and, though be may have a high endowment of natural
talent, will have nothing to stimulate and bring it out; and,
with cautious, large or very large, will be timid, irresolute,
cowardly, and easily overcome by alarm.
V ery Small.—One having combat, very small, with
cautious, very large, is passive, tame, cowardly, chicken-
hearted, weak, destitute ofspirit, force and energy ofcharac­
ter, and may be abused with impunity; is excessively timid;
does not stand his ground; never ventures; will nevermani­
fest anger, and be utterly unableto withstand opposition.
When the author was in the town of Milton, Pa., in 1836,
one ofthe editors of that place, who was a decided opponent
of phrenology, for the purpose of testingthe science, brought
forward a lad who was distinguished for his talents, his
Shrewdness, high-toned, manly feeling, and for his apparent
Digitized by Google
80 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
boldness and daring in horsemanship. To make the expert
ment the more satisfactory, theauthor was blindfolded. The
lad was described as possessed of extraordinary talent, and
high moral feeling, joined with somecunning, but with small
combat., and so extreme a development of cautious, as to
make him timid and cowardly—too timid to run any risk, or
venture near the brink of danger. All present allowed that
the description, throughout, was very correct, except that the
most marked feature of his character had been reversed.
He was considered the most daring and reckless youth in
the whole village* Many instances, however, were soon
cited, of his unwillingness to mount horses with which he
was not fully acquainted, and which were considered frac­
tious. His brother also stated,that he was excessively afraid
in the dark; and only a few daysprevious, his father had re­
marked to some one present, that, although he affected great
daring, bravado, and willingness to fight, &c., yet, when
brought to the sticking point, he always contrived, and some­
times very ingeniously, togel out of the scrape without com­
ing to blows. Still the youth affected to be as courageous
and as daring as ever, until, at supper, in the evening after
his examination, when his mother, who doubtless knew best
his real character, accosted him substantially as follows:
“My son, you know that you are a coward: why, then, do
you persist in denying it? You know that I can never
make you, old as youare, go to bed alone; and that, whenev­
er you are left alone in bed, you will get up and come down.”
“ I know it, mother,” replied thehumbled boy, “but I did not
wish the other boys to find out that I was a coward,because,
when they do, they will call me out to fight.”
The real explanation is this. His very large self-e. and
large approbat. created the demand forapparent bravery, and
his very large intellect and large secret., enabled him to
devise this method of supplying his want of native courage
with this counterfeit bravery; while his predominating cau­
tious., which caused his excessive fear, kept him from expos­
ing himselftoany real danger; and his self-e. gave him the
self-confidence necessary tocarry out the ingenious expedient
which his intellect had devised.
The following anecdote was related to the author. A
Mr. S.. in a certain engagement with the Indians, fought des­
perately, even with a bravery which greatly astonished those
who had known his father, who was always branded and
Digitized by Google
COMBATIVENESS. 81
ridiculed as an arrant coward. He then confessed, that his
fear was almost insupportable, and’thathefoughtthus brave­
ly only to wipe out the disgrace ofhis father.
These facts, with ten thousand others which might easily
be cited, clearly show, that what isgenerally considered bra­
very, is more frequently produced by approbat. or self-e.,
than bv combat. Hence, great cowards often appear to be
men of real courage.
The way is thus opened for the remark, that the amount
of combat, manifested, depends, in no small degree, upon the
stimulus under which it acts. For example; suppose two
young men, possessedofan equal share ofcombat., andalike
m every respect, except, that one possessed a very large
share ofapprobat. and very small adhes., and the other only
a small degree of approbat., but very large adhes. Now,
under given circumstances, the former would be as much
more indignant at an insult offered to him, and touching his
honour, than the latter would be, as his approbat. was larger
than that ofthe latter; whereas, the latter would take up the
quarrel of a friend as much quicker than the former, and
fight as much harder, as his adhes. excelledthat ofthe form"
er. This illustration presents a general principle, which
applies with equal force to the combinations of any of the
other faculties with that of combat., and to all the combina­
tions ofthe organs.
The application of this principle, will most satisfactorily
explain, how a man may be perfectly honest in some things,
and quite dishonest in others, as well as ten thousand other
interesting phenomena ofthe human mind. It will explain
to us, how the timid and delicate mother, in rescuing her
darling child from imminentdanger, can assumethe boldness
ofthe hero, nay, the fierceness of the tiger.
In this last case, the phenomenon is explained thus: Very
large philopro., very powerfully excites what combat, there
is, but for which excitement, timidity wouldtakethe place of
boldness, and cowardice, that of courage.
Ijocation.—In a common sized head, combat, is located
about an inch and a half behind the top of the ear, and ex­
tends itself in a perpendicular direction. When it is very
large, and the surrounding organs large, it will cause a
thickness ofthis part of the head, which may be the more
easily observed by placing the thumb upon the organ onone
side, and the fingers on the opposite side; but when it is
4*
Digitized by L.ooQle
82 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
moderate or small, there will belittleprotuberance or breadth
in this region.
7. DESTRUCTIVENESS.
Propensity to destroy\ exterminate, and inflict pain.
In the economy of human society, many things are to be
destroyed to make life even tolerable. Death and destruc­
tion enter largely into the great law of nature. Hence, the
necessity of some faculty to exercise this propensity to de­
stroy. We often see it in the child, which, long before it
•'knows how to choose the good and Tefuse the evil,” mani­
fests an innate and strong propensity to tear in pieces, break,
and destroy whatever comes in its way. As it advances
in life, it even makes a pastime of tormenting and killing
flies, and all such animals as fall into its power. When a
little older, it delights in hunting, and indulges feelings of
hatred and revenge.
We, moreover, see that this same characteristick of de­
struction, enters into every department of organized matter,
and forms no unimportant feature, as well of the moral, as
of the natural, government of God. The exercise of this
function, must therefore be both right and necessary, else,
why should it be exercised by the Creator? And there evi­
dently exists, not only no reason why this class of functions
should not be performed by a distinct mental faculty, but
there certainly exists every reason for supposing that this is
the case. It is homogeneous in its kind, and unlike any
other in itscharacter; and, consequently, demands a distinct
faculty for its exercise, and upon the same ground with any
other class of functions.
Large.—One having destruct. large, with large combat,
firm., and self-e., possessesthat sternness and severity of char­
acter, which make others fear to provoke him, and that force
of character'which enables him to prostrate and surmount
whatever obstacles oppose his progress; accompanies his
mandate with a threat, either implied or expressed; is point­
ed and safcastick, if not bitter, in his replies; feels strong
indignation towards those that displease or injure him, and
is disposed tp persecute them by injuring their feelings, repu­
tation, or interests, or by treating them with entire contempt
and neglect; experiences a feeling of revenge and bitterness
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 83
which, unless restrained by secret., conscien.,benev., &c., he
does not fail to show.
One having destruct. large, with large adhes., loves his
friends dearly, yet often injures their feelings by saying bit­
ter things to them, which, with conscien. large, he often
afterwards regrets: with combat, moderate, is slowto wrath,
but bitter and vindictive when once roused, and will have
satisfaction before he can be appeased: with secret, large,
and conscien. moderate or small, watches his opportunity to
take vengeance, and strikes in the dark; but with secret
small, warns before he strikes; with benev. large or very
large, may be sometimes harsh in his effortsto do good, and
tbus often cause needless pain, but will do this more by his
manner than from any cruel design; will be kind, and sym-
pathetick, and sensitive to the sufferings of others, and yet,
very harsh and severe when provoked; and generally exer­
cise this faculty upon inanimate, rather than upon animate,
objects: with conscien. and combat, large, and secret, small,
is apt to find considerable fault and that ina veryharsh man­
ner : with large or very large compar., applies disgusting
epithets to his enemies, and compares them tosomemost odi­
ous or disgusting object; is pre-eminent for his sarcastick
comparisons, which always fit the one for whom they are
made,* &c.
V e r y l a r g e .—One having destruct. very large, with
large or very large benev., conscien., and caus., may be en­
abled so to govern and restrain his indignation, that it wilf
seldom carry him beyond the bounds of reason landjustice,
or break out into ungoverned rage and violence, yet when
roused, will be dangerous, and like a chafed lion, and be
obliged to avoid the causes of excitement; will be fond of
teasing, and also of hunting, and the warlike array ofa gen­
eral muster, &c.; and, with large or very large combat.,
self-e., approbat., firm., and hope, will excel as a soldier, &c.
For other combinations, see destruct. large.
F u l l .—One having destruct. full, with large firm., and
full,combat, and self-e., has sufficient harshness and severity
of character to keep off and punish those who would other­
wise injure him ; to take the rough and tumble of life, and
push his own way through it; and to destroy or subdue
whatever is prejudicial to his happiness, yet is neither mo­
*John Randolph.
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
*4 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
rose nor cruel; when driven to it, can witness and inflict
pain, but does it reluctantly, and causes as little suffering- as
he consistently can ; when his anger is not highly exci­
ted, is mild in his disposition ; and, excepting occasional
flurries of passion, which are produced by irritability of
temperament, seldom shows strong indignation.
One having destruct. full, with large benev., conscien.,
ideal., and adhes., will possess uncommon sympathyandten­
derness of feeling, mingled with little sternness and harsh­
ness ; will secure obedience, and accomplish his wishes by
kindness and persuasion, more than by threats and passion,
and be beloved more than feared : with large or very large
benev., cannot bear to see pain or punishment inflicted, ex­
cept when he is angry, and then may inflict it with delight ;
yet,with large combat, and mirth., delights to tease and tan­
talize others ; will not be wanton and cruel in the infliction
of pain, yet will seldom allow his indignation to slumber
when his own interests, or those of his friends, or the cause
of justice or humanity, demand it; in ordinary circumstan­
ces, will inflict but little pain, yet will manifest strong dis­
pleasure towards his enemies, and, when his indignation is
fully kindled, show even more severity and bitterness than
thè occasion demands ; will not readily forget the objects of
his displeasure, and will be far from possessing a tame and
insipid character.
M o d e r a t e .—One having destruct. moderate, will mani­
fest only a moderate share of indignation and severity of
character ; often spare what should be destroyed or punish­
ed ; and, with large or very large benev., will be unable to
witness sufferingand death,much lesstocause them; and will
not possess sufficient forceofmind or fiercenessofcharacterto
drive through important undertakings : with benev. and the
moral organs generally large or very large, will be beloved
more than feared; will possess an extraordinary share of
sympathy, so much so as sometimes to overcome him, and
amount to a weakness ; and will secure his wishes more by
persuasion and mild measures, than by threats or harshness.
S m a l l .—One having destruct. small, manifests his anger
in so feeble a manner, that it effects but little, and provokes
a smile, rather than fear: with benev. very large, possesses
too little hardness of heart to inhabit a world of suffering
and endure its cruelties and hardships, and cannot himself
endure physical suffering.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 85
In its perverted exercise, this faculty creates a vindictive,
bitter, revengeful, over-bearing spirit; delights in tantalizing
and tormenting; produces cruelty towards beasts, and those
in its power; gives a relish for hunting, killing, destroying,
witnessing publick executions, and such amusements as the
fighting of men, dogs, and fowls, in bull-bating, bear-bating,
&c.; produces a propensity for war, murder, violence, blood­
shed, &c.; instigates children and others to stone,catch, tor­
ment, and destroy birds, insects, and such animals as fall in
their way, and also to stamp, strike, tear in pieces, and ex­
hibit other signs of rage, violence, &c.; and, with approbat.
and self-e. very large, to engage in duelling, &c., and pur­
sue enemies till revenge is fully satisfied.
That the class of functions here described, constitutes a
very extensive and a very influential portion of the mental
operations, no attentive observer of human nature can enter­
tain a doubt. Every page of the history of man, from that
which records the murder of Abel by his own brother, to
that which closes with the wars of Florida and Texas, is
written in characters of violenceand blood. Even the most
favourite amusements of men havealways been sanguinary:
a specimen of which are the theatrical representations and
gladiatorial shows which have always delighted mankind.
Every publick execution is crowded with eager spectators ot
all classes and ages, and of both sexes, who attend mainlyto
gratify their destruct. by witnessing the violent death of a
fellow mortal. Almost every newspaper is stained with the
horrid details of some cold-blooded murder, duel, or suicide,
or some other act of violence or destruction in some of the
unnumbered forms it assumes. If phrenology did not make
provision for this class of functions, this omission would be
prima facie evidence of its destitutionof truth, and inconsis­
tency with nature.
Its exercise is either virtuous or vicious, according to the
circumstances in w'hicb, and the objects upon which, it is
exercised. Perhaps no organ is more liable to be abused
than this, or productive of more misery; and yet, this is by
no means owing to the nature and the original character of
the faculty, but solely to its perversion. Hence the import­
ance of its proper education.
L o c a t io n .—This organ is located beneath the temporal
bone, and, when large, extends from three to six eighths of
an inch above the top of the ear. When it is very large, \
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
thickens the middle of the base of the head, and makes the
ears stand out from the head. When it is large or very
large, and secret, is small, it produces a horizontal ridge
which extends about half an inch above the top of the ears
8. ALIMENTIVENESS.
Appetitefor sustenance—desirefor nutrition.
This faculty creates a relish for food, drink, &c.; renders
important assistance in selecting the kinds of food best
calculated to nourish the Jbody; when the system needs a
further supply of food and drink, produces hunger and
thirst, and,when it is unperverted, and the stomach is in a
healthy state, is a sure directory as to the quantity and the
quality of food necessary for the purposes of nutrition and
health.
L a r g e .—One having aliment. largeyis very fond of the
good things of this life, and frequently eats morethan health
and comfort require; partakes of food with a very keen rel­
ish; sets a very high value upon the luxuries of the palate;
and, according to his means, is a good liver.
One having aliment, large, with acquis, also large, will in­
dulge his appetite, when he can do so without too great ex­
pense ; but, when good eating is costly, will sometimes suffer
hunger rather than pay a high price to appease it, except
where heisashamednottoeat; will expend moneyreluctantly
for sweetmeats, &c., unless his aliment, is stimulated by a
favourite dish, or, to him, favourite sweetmeats, but will, nev­
ertheless, find it hardto keep fromeating whatever delicacies
may be in his way: with acquis, moderate or small, will
spend his time ana money freely for rich viands and rare
liquors; and, if largo or very large adhes. be added to this
combination, will not only take the greatest delight at the
convivial board and the social meal, but will spend money
even more lavishly than is necessary to entertain his friends:
with conscien. large or very large, will feel guilty whenever
he over-indulges his appetite, and will endeavour toregulate
his eating according to his ideas of duty, yet will be obliged
to struggle hard against this as “an easily besetting sin,” by
which he will, nevertheless, be often overtaken: with con­
scien,,and ven. large or very large, will be thankful for his
Digitized by L.ooQle
ALIMENTIVENESS. 87
food as a bountiful gift from the hand of his Maker with
lang., mirth., and adhes. large or very large, and secret, only
moderate, will be conversational, social, and humorous atthe
festal board: with the intellectual organs generally large,
will prefer conversation upon rational and scientinck sub­
jects: with ideal, large or very large, must have his food
prepared in the nicest manner, and in elegant and fashion­
able dishes; but, with ideal, moderate, thinks more of the
food and of the cookery, than of the ceremonies or the style,
of the table; with self-e. large, and acquis* only moderate or
fall, will be satisfied only with the first and the best table,
even if he is obliged to pay a high price for it: with large
approbat. and ideal., will be very ceremonious at table; but
with ideal, only moderate, and self-e. and caus. large, will
despise ceremony, yet, with large or very large benev., will
provide bountifully, and show great hospitality attable, with­
out much splendour or ceremony, &c.
V e r y l a r g e .—One having aliment, very large,will be too
much given tothe indulgence ofavoraciousappetite;tooready
to ask “ what he shall eat and drink;” will think as much
of his meals as of almost any thing else, and bestrongly in­
clined to act the epicure or the gormand. The combinations
of aliment, very large, are analogous to those produced by
aliment."large, exceptthat its manifestations willbe greater in
degree, which thejudgment of the reader will readily supply.
F u l l .—One having aliment, full, partakes of food with
a gobd relish, yet is not a gormandizer, nor very particular
in regard to what he eats and drinks; can endure a poor
diet, yet is very partial to a variety of rich dishes, and some­
times overloads his stomach. The combinations of aliment,
fall, resemble those of aliment, large, except in an inferiour
degree.
M o d e r a t e .—One having aliment, moderate, is by no
• means destitute of a relish for food, yet, when in health, is
not particular as to what he eats; prefers a plain, simple diet
to that which is highly seasoned and very rich, &c.
One having aliment, moderate, with acquis, large, will
grudge the money he pays for his meals, and frequently suf­
fer hunger rather than pay the customary price for them;
will prefer to take up with a poorer meal or a cold bite at a
lower price, than to pay well for the best: with conscien.
*Hence, the custom of “asking a bleeding” upon food, andof“returning thanked
for it.
Digitized by L.ooQle
large or very large, finds little difficulty in governing his
appetite, because he has solittle to govern, &c.
S m a l l .—One having aliment, small, will have but an in­
different or a poor appetite; will care little/about what he
eats, or when he eats; and, with acquis, large, go longwith­
out food, and live very poorly, rather than part with his
money to pay for food.
Gluttony, gormandizing, luxurious living, intemperancem
all its forms, and the unnatural cravings of the stomach, are
the perverted exercises of this faculty. To see the pains
taken, and the preparations made, and the time and money
worse than wasted, merely in gratifying this propensity, is
most astonishing: and, above all, to see the monstrous per­
versions of it which everywhere abound, to the reflect­
ing, sober mind, is humiliating in the extreme. That man,
made in the image of his God, and endowed bynature with
such transcendent powers of thought and feeling, that man
should thus “make a god of his belly,” and, for the mere
purpose of indulging to excess this animal passion, thus de­
mean and degrade himself so far below the brute creation—
thus clog the wheels of this wonderful machine which we
call mind,exhibits, in a most mortifying light, the depravity
into which human nature is capable ofbeing led. Yet such
is the deplorable fact, and such is likely to be the character
and condition ofman, so long as he “lives to eat,” instead of
“eating to live,” and thus continues to indulge his animal
propensities at the expense of his moral and intellectual fac­
ulties.
The experience of all mankind shows that there exists a
reciprocal and most intimate connexion between the faculty
ofaliment, and the stateofthe stomach, and, also,between the
state of the stomach and the conditions ofthe brain; and still
further, between the state of the brain and the mental opera­
tions, or, between the state ofthe stomach and theoperations
ofthe mind. But this subject will be enlarged upon in a
subsequent chapter upon physiology.
L o c a t io n .—Aliment, is located just before, and a little
below, destruct., in front ofthe top part of the ears,abovethe
back part of the zigomatick process, and beneath the anteri­
or portion of the temporal bone. It may be distinguished
from destruct., by its being situated farther forward than de­
struct., and a little below it. It is generally large or very
large in children.
88 FHRBNOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by Google
ACQUISITIVENESS. 89
9. ACQUISITIVENESS.
P ropensity to acquire substance, and to appropriate it to
one}s stiff—love of property— desire to amass wealth, lay¿ip,
own,possess, keep, fyc.
This faculty loves money as an end, and notas a means;
money for its own sake, and not for what it will purchase;
gives ideas of exclusive right, and personal ownership and
possession: creates that feeling of meum et tuum, or that im­
pression that certain things are our own, and that other
things belong to others, which is so universally manifested
among men, and upon which the law, and, indeed, all our
claims to property, are founded, &c. '
This faculty, in its operation, brings within our reach most
of the necessities, and all the comforts and luxuries, of life; is
the great nerve of commerce, manufactures, inventions, and
business in all its multifarious forms; and is the great mov­
ing cause of husbandry, trade, the arts, and the improve­
ments with which mankind are blessed. We little realize
how- much we owe to this faculty. The making ofbooks,
and apparel, and houses, the cultivation of farms, the
building of villages, and cities, and stores, and canals, and
the possession of nearly all that prevents life from being one
dreary waste, may be traced, through the helps afforded by
the other faculties, directly to the influence of this love of
money. Without this faculty, man, like those beasts which
are destitute of it, when he had satiated his hunger, and
slaked his thirst, would wander on till again overtaken by
these cravings of his nature; would not provide, in health
and the vigour of life, for sickness and old age, but, like the
savage of our western wilderness, in whom it is generally
small, would live “from hand to mouth,” providing nothing
for a rainy day, and idling away his life.
That this feeling exists, and even manifests itself in bold
reliefin the human character, every observer ofhuman nature
will at once admit; and that, while, in some, it amounts to a
ruling passion, in others, it is scarcely perceptible. Here,
then, we have a distinct, a sui generis, and a homogeneous
class of functions ; and we must hence conclude, that there
exists a distinct power ofthe mind which performs it.
Large.—One having acquis, large, is stimulated by his
Digitized by L.ooQle
90 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
love of money, to use arduous and self-denying efforts in
order toacquire wealth ; takpsdelight in accumulating prop­
erty of every description; spends his money reluctantly for
things to be consumed; cannot endure to see waste; enters
upon his money-making plans in good earnest, or, perhaps,
makes them his main object of pursuit; unless he is accus-
tomed to handling large sums ofmoney, has a watchful and
eager eye upon thesmall change,bothinmaking and inspend­
ing money; thinks much of becoming rich ; seems to place
his heart upon what property he may possess; and seeks,
with avidity, to obtain all that belongs to him.
One having acquis, large, with self-e. only moderate, and
conscien. and caus. only full, will occasionally discover a
penuriousness, littleness, and closeness in his dealings, and
also banter for trifles, if not forthe half-cent: with hope large
or very large, notonly has strong desiresto accumulate prop­
erty,but also views every project ofacquiring it,through the
magnifying medium ofhope,and thusexaggerates every pTos-
pect for making money; and, with firm, and self-e.also large
or very large, is eminently enterprising; devises bold
schemes fcr acquiring property, and enters upon them with
great determination and energy, cheered on by seemingly
bright prospects ofsuccess: with the perceptive organs also
large or very large, is a first rate judge of property; prone
to trade and speculate; and, with secret, also large, will ex*
cel in negotiating, and in conducting a trade; isseldomtaken
in, and generally gets the best of the bargain: with hope
very large, cautious, only moderate, and concent, small, will
be disposed to enter so largely into business as to endanger
an entire failure; to venture beyond bis means and capabili­
ties; tospeculatetoo largely; to acquire his moneyby traffick,
or by investing it, expecting thereby greatly to increase,
it; and, with large combat, and destruct. in addition,
will be likely to prosecute his muney-making operations
with great vigour and energy; and with firm, also large or
very large, to drive them through all opposing difficulties,
and either to “make or breakw ill be subject to reverses
of fortune, and sometimes lose by imprudence what he has
gained by enterprise; but, with combat., cautious., self-e.,
hope, and the reasoning organs large or very large, and the
perceptive at least full, will combine uncommon energy,
with uncommon prudence ; may enter largely into business,
yet will be so careful and judicious as generally to secure
Digitized by Google
ACQUISITIVENESS. 91
himselfagainst losses and accidents; will generally havefor­
tune upon his side; and, with a large and active brain, un­
less prevented by his friendship, his benev., or his conscien.,
or by accidentsagainstwhich no carefulness or sagacity could
provide, will doubtless become rich; but with hope mode­
rate, and cautious, large or very large, will desire to enter
largely into business, yet fear to do so; frequently be “a
day after the fair and deliberate so long before he decides
what to do, as to lose the most favourable time for action;
yet will sustain fewer losses, and, in what he does undertake,
will be more sure of success; will not invest his money un­
less he can foresee thenecessary resultofthe undertaking; to
acquireproperty, savesrather than speculates; and prefers an
income that is more sure,though it may be more slow, to one
that ismore promising, yet more precarious; takes all availa­
ble security against losses by fire, by accidents, by dishon­
esty, or in any other way; makes every thing as safe as pos­
sible ; and is over-careful in all his pecuniary transactions,
dbc.: with hope very large, concent, small, and firm, only
full, will be likelyfrequently to change his plan of operation,
or, it may be, his business, hoping thereby to get rich the
sooner; will never be satisfied to “let well enough alone,'’*
nor to pursue one steady occupation long enough to reap
much profit; but, with firm, large or very large, and hope
less than firm., will be likely to pursue one steady business
and plan ofoperation through life,unless literally compelled
tochange it by duty, or judgment, or friendship, or some oth­
er powerful motive: with cautious, very large, through fear
of consequences, may waver in business, and will labour un-
cfer the greatest anxiety about his property; and, with hope
small, in the midst of wealth, friends plenty, and the fairest
prospects, may really apprehend poverty and even starvation:
with compar. and caus. large or very large, intuitively per­
ceives what means or causes put in operation, are naturally
calculated to effect certain ends; what property will be likely
toincrease in value; lays judiciousplans; makes shrewd cal­
culationsas towhat willbe; and, with cautious, also large, so
Vcalculates as generally tosucceed, &c.: with ccnscien. large
or very kwge, though he may be very eager in his desire for
money, and tax all his powers to accumulate property, yet
will acquire it only by honest means; despise the “tricks
of trade,’* and can be safely relied upon: with large
or very large intellectual organs, will prefer to make
Digitized by k j o o o l e
92 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
money by some intellectual, scientifick, or literary pur­
suit, &c.
Acquis, merely desires property,butthe kind ofpropertyse­
lected foracquisition, isdeterminedbythe wants and the tastes
ofthe other faculties. One having acquis, large, for example,
with philopro. also large, will desire property both for itsown
sake, and, also,onaccount ofchildren, or, with all the domes-
tick faculties energetick, forhis family,and will spend itfreely
for their sake : with approbat. large or very large, will seefc
money both to lay up, and also toobtain approbation by dress,
equipage, elegant furniture, &c., and expend it freely for
these purposes, yetmayshow penuriousness in other respects;
with benev. very large, will love money, yet give it freely to
relieve suffering, and also to do good to his fellow men:
with large or very large moral and religious organs, will be
likely to “be diligent in his business,” economical and,per­
haps,close in money matters, yet wil) give freely to benevo­
lent, missionary, and religious objects, and for the purpose
dfconverting men to Christianity: with ideal, and ven. very
large, will be likely to lay up ancient coins, paintings, books,
&c., and be an antiquarian: with the selfish faculties strong
and vigorous, will lay up stich things as will gratify his va­
rious selfish passions: with the intellectual organs large,
books, philosophical apparatus, and other assistants to intel­
lectual pursuits; and, with ideal, also very large, books
that are ejegantly bound and embossed, minerals, curious
specimens of nature and art, &c.: with several of these or­
gans large or very large, will desire money for its own
sake, forthe sake offamily, for purposesofpersonal aggran­
dizement, for benevolent and literary objects, &c., all com­
bined. Hence, this universal scrambling for the “root ofall
evil,” which isthebaneofhuman happinessand moral virtue.
This analysis of “the love of money” is certainly most
beautiful. Phrenology shows us not only how strong the
love of money is in every man, but, also, the character
ofthis love, and the ultimateendssought tobe reached by it.
V e r y L a r g e .—One having acquis, very large, makes
monev his idol; taxes, to the utmost, all his powers toamass
wealtn; makes every sacrifice, and endures every hardship
to secure this object, and allows nothing to divert him from
it; spends money grudgingly, and is so penurious and close-
fisted as to deprive himself of many of the comforts, and of
alltheluxuries, of life; iscovetous andmiserly, unlessbenev.
Digitized by k j o o o l e
and conscien. are equally large, and can never be satisfied
with adding field to field, house to house, &c.#
One having acquis, very large, with combat, and destruct.
also large, and benev. and conscien. only moderate or full,
w ill “ grind the face of the poor;” practice extortion; take
every advantage of his fellow men; make all the money he
can, both by fair and foul m eans; and is light fingered.
T he combinations under this head will coincide with those
under the head of acquis, large, with the modification pro­
duced by the mere increase of acquis.
F u ll.— One having acquis, fu ll, will be likely to be in­
dustrious, frugal, anxious to acquire possessions, both from
love of money, and also to secure the comforts of life; will
be zealous, if not quite eager, in all his money-making pur­
su its; and unwilling to spend his money except when his
stronger faculties demand it for their gratification ; will be nei­
ther prodigal nor penurious, unless made so by circumstances;
w ill be likely to save enough to live comfortably, but live
w ell upon what he has, yet, as a general thing, will find it
very difficult to keep money by him, and scewitobe extravagant.
So far as the m aking of money and the class of substan­
ces selected for acquisition are concerned, the selections
under acquis, large, w ill apply to acquis, fu ll; yet, in
the spending of money, there may be a difference. One
having acquis, full, with approbat., and ideal., &c., large or
very large, will be industrious in making money, and quite
anxious to become rich, yet will spend it too freely for fash­
ionable and ornamental articles of convenience, dress, equi­
page, &c., or to make a sh ow ; with ideal, and local, very
large, in travelling; with adhes. and benev. large or very
large, for the purpose of assisting his friends; with the reli­
gious organs very large, in promoting the cause of religion
and advancing the benevolent objects of the day, and will
take much more delight in spending his money in this way,
than in laying it u p ; with large or very large intellectual
oigans, in such things as will gratify these faculties; with
several organs large, in such a manner as to gratify the
greatest number of them; with amat. and adhes. large or
very large, in supplying the wants, and augmenting the
pleasures, of the other sex, &c.
This same principle of spending money, applies to acquis.
♦ Stephen Gerard, of Philadelphia, whose picture shows a very large
development of acquis.
ACQUISITIVENESS. 93
Digitized by L.ooQle
94 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
large,wheneverthelargerorgansrequire it,atwhosemandate
acquis, will unlock hertreasures,andmayevenpermitextrava­
gance. The additional combinations of acquis, full with the
other organs, will be found to be intermediate between those
under acquis, large, and acquis, moderate.
Moderate.—One having acquis, moderate,, desires mo­
ney more as a means than as an end, more for its uses than to
lay u p ; will pay too littleattention to small sums, spend his
money too freely, so that he can hardly account for the
amount spent; does not grudge what he spends, or gives, or
sees given; though he may be industrious, will not be suffi­
ciently economical; will as soon purchase things to consume
as to keep; and prefers to take the good of his money as he
goes along, instead oflaying it up.
One having acquis, moderate, with the domestick organs
verylarge, will be likely to spend his money forthe present,
rather than reserve it for the future, wants of his family:
with the selfish faculties strong, and the moral and reasoning
deficient, will spend his money upon the gratification of his
passions, and seldom accumulate property: with approbat
and ideal, very large, and caus. only full, will be extrava­
gant j likely to run into debt for the purpose of dashing out ;
and will be foppish: with combat., destruct., self-e., and firm,
large or very large, will almostthrow away money to gratify
his will: with ideal, and self-e. large or very large, never
purchases a poor article, and pleases his fancy, compara­
tively regardless of its cost; and, with hope rlso large
or very large, will be too opt to run into debt; spend
money in anticipation of future income; and be too prodi­
gal. One having acquis, moderate, may have a very
strong desire to make money, but not upon its own account:
with the domestick organs large, when he comes to have a
family of his own, will love money muth more than before,
on their account: with the intellectualorgans generally large,
will desire it to facilitate his literary pursuits, &c. Hence,
the amount ofone’s acquis, can seldom be determined, either
by the eagerness with which he seeks it, or the manner of
his spending it;and hence, also, some appear to be spend­
thrifts at one period oftheir lives, and misers at another.*
* The author is acquainted vuth a Mr. H. who, until within five years,
was accustomed to ppend an annual income of several thousand dollars,
laying up nothing; but who, since that time, has acted up to a determina­
tion to make, and save, all tne money he can, not because he loves mo­
ney, per teee, any better now than he did then, but from other motives.
His fellow citizens call him penurious.
Digitized by L.ooQle
ACQUISITIVENESS. 95
Small.—One having acquis, small, holds money loosely;
spends it without sufficient consideration, and often without
receiving its full value; is thoughtless how his money goes,
and, with hope very large, will live on, enjoying the present,
thinking that the future will provide for itsell; will spend
his last dollar as freely as his first; is wasteful, or at least,
does not save the fragments; and, with approbat. and ideal.
Wry large, andcaus. only full, will be a spendthrift; lay out
his money to very little advantage; run into debt without
making a provision for payment, &c. For additional com­
binations,see those under acquis, moderate.
V e r y S m a l l .—One having acquis, very small, neither
knows or considers the value ofmoney; cares not how it goes,
nor how expensive things are, provided they take his fancy:
will have no idea of laying up property and, with ideal, ana
approbat. very large, will spend all he can command ; every
thing pertaining to money being determined by his other
faculties.
In females, this faculty is generally weaker than in males,
while ideal, and approbat. are generally much larger, which
accounts for the fact, that they spend money so much more
freely than men, especially, for ornamental purposes.
The author has observed, that the sons of rich parents
generally possess the organ (as they do the faculty) develop­
ed in an inferiour degree. This is doubtless owing tothefact,
that, having an abundance of money at command, they have
had nothing to stimulate, and thus increase, this faculty, so
thau from mere want of exercise, it becomes weak and
feeble. This likewise accounts for the fact,that the children
of men wrho have made themselves rich, generally make a
very poor use oftheir fathers’ earnings, and often fall into
dissipated habits. A deficiency of this faculty is one cause
of their idleness, and this, the cause of their dissipation,
and this,frequently,thecause oftheir ruin.
Thus it is, that full acquis, is an important inducement to
industry, and, therefore, highly promotive of virtue and
moral worth; whilst a deficiency of this faculty leaves open
the floodgates of temptation and dissipation. If this is so,
the, lesson thus taught mankind, by phrenology, is invalua­
ble. We are thus taught the importance ofa proper cultiva­
tion ofacquis., and, also, what that propereducation is. .We
are farther taught, that the exercise of acquis, is virtuous or
vicious, not in itself, nor in its medium exercise, but
Digitized by b o o g i e
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
in its extremes ofmanifestation. This facultycertainly needs
to be educated no less than caus., event., calcu., or any other
faculty ofthe mind.
The perverted manifestations ofacquis, are, theft, cheating,
extortion j with construct, and imitat. large, forgery, counter­
feiting, burglary;penuriousness, meanness, a miserly, sordid,
money-loving, covetous feeling, &c.
L o c a t io n .—This organ is located just before secret, and
above aliment.; or, upon the sides of the head, and a little
farther forward than the forepart of the ears; or, in the mid­
dle of a line connecting the organs of cautious, and calcu.
It seldom causes a protuberance, but, when it is large, the
thickness of the head just in front, and a littleabove the tops
ofthe ears, will be conspicuous, even to the eye.
10. SECRETIYENESS.
Propensity and ability to secrete, to conceal, and to sup­
press the expression of the other mental operations.
We often think and feel what it would be very improper
for us to express. Hence, the necessity ofsome faculty, the
office of which is to suppress the open manifestation of the
various mental operations, until the reasoning faculties,
conscien., benev., &c., have decided upon the propriety and
the utility oftheir expression. The legitimate office of this
organ is not, as has generally been supposed, to keep the
secrets intrusted to the individual, but to enable him success­
fully to keep his own secrets, and conceal his own plans from
general observation. It is even unfavourable to keeping the
secrets of others; because, inasmuch as it has to do with
secrets, it creates an anxiety, not only to ascertain the secrets
ofothers, but also to reveal them as secrets, but with the in­
junction of secrecy.
A good endowment of this organ is essential to prudence
ofcharacter, particularly in speaking of, and exposing, one’s
business, &c., and also toetiquette and modern politeness. It
removes the blunt, unpolished edge from the manner of ex­
pression, appearance, &c.j assists in covering many weak
points of character; and prevents exposures, not to physical
dangers, (forthis isthe officeof cautious.,) but tothe machina­
tions of the designing and the envious, to the impositions of
the crafty, and the false constructions ofall.
Large.—One having secret. large, will generally keep
96
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
SECRKTIVINI88. tf
hn thoughts, feelings, business, plans, opinions, &c. chiefly
to himself, except when they are drawn from him; will
effect his purposes indirectly, and without detection; will
govern his feelings, and restrain the open manifestation of
ung.^r, joy, grief Ac.; can banish from his countenance and
appearance the indications of his real feelings, and, with
imitât, large, seem to feel as he does not : with firm., and
self-e., and destruct. also large, will suffer pain and sickness
without showing or complaining much of it; is prudent
about speaking; careful in what he says; reserved; slow to
communicate, form attachments, make acquaintances, &c.;
does not make the first advances to strangers; is not free in
expressing his feelings, but doesit equivocally,and by piece­
meal ; with conscien. moderate, is suspicious ofthe intentions
of others; wrary, and always onthealeit; generally answers
questions,expressesopinions, &c., inan ambiguous, equivocal,
evasive,orindefinite manner,whichwillbeardifferentinterpre­
tations, sothat he seldom commits himself; hesitates, and re­
commences his sentences asthoughafraidtospeak out plainly
just what he thinks; can en ploy cunning, art,management,
and manœuvre, and act the double part; says but little, yet
thinks the more; pries into the secrets of others, yet keeps
his own to himself, or, at least, sounds others closely ; gen­
erally judges correctly of character, especially if individ.,
cans.,and compar. are large or very large, and so success­
fully conceals his own character and purposes, that but little
is generally known of him except by a long and intimate
acquaintance.
One having secret large, with adhes. large or very large,
Ttoay sometimes communicate his feelings freely tohis nearest
Friends, yet will seldom do this, and exercise more attach­
ment than he expresses: \rith amat. also large, may love
strongly, but will express his love in a somewhat doubtful
and equivocal manner: with combat, and destruct. large,
unless the excitement is very sudden, and his temperament
very irritable, may restrain, for a long time, the expression
of anger, and cover up the fire which is burning in his bo­
som, yet, when he does give vent to it, will blaze forthin
good earnest: wT
itb self-e, or approbat., or both, large or
Very large, caus. only full, and conscien. moderate or small,
will be inclined to employ running and deception in advan­
cing his reputation ; operate indirectly, and through the agen­
cy of others ; begiven toeye-service,and will domany things
Digitized by b o o d l e
98 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
merely for effect, and “to be see» of men: 1 with cautioua
large or very large, will bv* very careful, not only about
what he sa^s, but also about wbat he does; and, with the
reasoning organs large or very large, be pre-eminently dis­
creet and judicious, and never venture an opinion, unless he
is very certain that it is perfectly correct, and then generally
with a but, an if or a perhaps; and will drop no word, and
give no clew, by means of which he can be detected: with
conscicn. only moderate or small, and self-e. and caus. only
full, and approbat. large or very large, will be deceitful, ana
inclined to employ cunning and artifice in accomplishing his
plans; contrive to throw the ignominy of his evil deeds upon
others; be veryapt to$ayone thing in your presence,andquite
another in your absence; cannot be confided in as a friend;
and, vvithadhes. only fu 1,and irnitat. large or very large, can
carry on his malicious designs under the garb of friendship:
with combat, destruct., self-e., and approbat. large, benev.,
firm., and caus. only full, and conscien. only moderate or
small, will be obsequious to superiours, and domineering to
inferiours: with acquis, large or very large, and conscien.
only moderate or full, will practise the “tricks oftradeand
make a good bargain whenever he can, even though he is
obligedto usesome misrepresentations: with destruct., self-e.,
and firm, large or very large, will possess great fortitude,
and endure severe, corporeal suffering without flinching or
complaining: with conscien. large or very large, may some­
timesequivocate and employ deception in cases in which be it
under no moral obligation tocommunicate the facts, and, also,
in which his interest demands secrecy, but will never know­
ingly deceive others to their injury, especially if his duty re­
quires him to tell the whole truth: vvith adhes, benev., and
conscien. large or very large, and self-e. full, will be frank
and candid in telling a friend his faults, yet will never re­
prove, unless his sense of duty compels him to do so: with
firm, and self-e. very large, will seem to yield, yet will do.so
only m appearance; will say but little, and make very little
ado about the matter, yet, in acting, will be immoveable
and inflexible, &c.
V e r y La .of..—One having secret, very large, will be
very apt to keep every thing pertaining to himself wrapped
up in profound secrecy, and disclose his feelings to no one;
be generally dark, secret, and mysterious in his movements;
seldom accomplish his purposes, except in an indirect and iij-
Digitized by L.ooQle
SECRETIVENESS. 99
triguing manner ; and besocrafty,reserved, and mysterious,
that no one will know much of his real character; and, with
combat., destruct., and the selfish iaculties generally large,
the moral and reflective only full, and conscien. only mode­
rate, will be “a snake in the grass;” practise art, cunning,
and deception, &c.: withaliment, large, will steal pies, cakes,
and sweatmeats: with acquis, large, will take and conceal
money, property, clothing, &c.: with approbat. and destruct.
large, and conscien. only moderate, will lie in ambush, plot
and execute his plans of injuring his rival,in secret; and
yet, appear to be his friend, &c. For farther combinations
under this head, see those under secret, large, which are
equally true writh secret, very large, except in degree, and
this the judgment of the reader will enable him to adapt to
secret, very large.
F ull.—One having secret, full, will be able to keep his
thoughts, feelings, and business to himself when occasion
really demands it, yet will commonly express them without
reserve; unless somewhatexcited, will notbe rash or blunt in
the expression of his feelings, yet, when any ofthe iaculties
that are more energetick than secret., or when those that are
not, become suddenly or considerably excited, will give a
full, and frank, and strong expression to them, because, al­
though secret, may be sufficiently active to hold even the
larger organs in check when they are but little excited, it
will notbe powerful enough todo so when they are roused to
more energetick action, sothat he w’ill fail topreserve an equa­
nimity of feeling and conduct; is generally free in conversa­
tion and discourse, yet seldom commits himself; is nothypo­
critical, nor yet remarkable for saying all he thinks; and
will generally govern his feelings, except w'hen excited, but
will then throwrthem out freely and fully; is somewhat re­
served and suspicious, especially upon a first acquaintance,
JUid yet, will generally be found to be sincere, unless strong-
Jy tempted by interest to act a double part, and even then,
wijl not be really dishonest, especially if conscien. be large
or very large; will know well howtokeep dark upon points
which he may wish to conceal, and also know how to ascer­
tain the intentions and the secrets of others; and will be re­
served to strangers and partial acquaintances, yet frank and
open among his intimate friends.
One having secret, full, with conscien. large, wii! never
lcjowingly practise deception to the injury of another, yet
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
10 0 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
may practise it in self-preservation, and in doing business,
especially when urged to it by other selfish faculties, and
when it is unrestrained by the moral and intellectual facul­
ties : with acquis, large or very large, and conscien. mode*
rate or small, will bear, and even need, to be watched;
sometimes give a false colouring to things in order tomakea
good bargain; and occasionally take the advantage, &c.
The additional combinations under secret, full, will beinter­
mediate between secret, large, and secret moderate.
Moderate.—One having secret, moderate, is generally
frank, candid, and openhearted in his disposition and inter­
course with men, and so ingenuous and undisguised as often
to expose himself to imposition and deception ; cbooses a
plain, direct, and unequivocal manner of expressing his
thoughts and feelings; has few secrets of his own which he
wishes to keep, and cares little about learning the secrets of
others, and, when things are told him with the injunction
“not to tell,” he scarcely thinks of them again ; and gener­
ally despises secrecy wherever he finds it. ;
One having secret, moderate or small, with combat, and
destruct. large or very large, tells others just what he thinks
ofthem; expresses his hatred and his love freely; is often un­
derstood as saying more than he really intended to say; and
frequentlyexpresses his anger in a harsh, blunt, and offensive
manner; but, with conscien. equally large, and concent
moderate or small, soon recovers his wonted serenity of tem­
per, and, if he is conscious that he has said or done any
thing wrong, is soon very sorry for it, and ready, if not glad,
to make any reasonable acknowledgment or reparation de­
manded : with conscien,at least,full, firm., self-e., benev.,and
caus. large or very large, will take an open, fair, honest, hon­
ourable, dignified, and high-minded course, and heartily de­
spiseevery thing like low cunning or management; employ
none butfair means; and do nothing behind the curtain: with
self-e. only moderate, or full, benev., ven., and adhes. large or
very large, is naturally upright and honest himself, and open
and fair in his dealings, and thinks others equally so; is too
ready to trust others, and especially those whocalI him their
friend; presumes too much upon the integrity and honesty
ofothers, and relies too imphcity upon their word, so that
he is extremely liable to be deceived and imposed upon:
with self-e. or approbat., or both, and hope very large, or
even large, is given to egotism; apt totalktoomuoh of him*
Digitized by L.ooQle
SECRETIVENESS. 101
»elf; becomes enthusiastick in telling what he has done or
can do; is oftenthe hero of his own tale; and too forward to
display' himself: withcautious, large or very large, manifests
great care and deliberation in his business, yet is very incau­
tious in his manner of speaking; is judicious in laying his
J
dans, and providing against a time of need, and very de-
iberate and prudent in making all his arrangements, yet is
very imprudent in the expression of his feelings.
Small.—One having secret, small, acts just as he feels;
speaks just what he thinks; is so blunt and direct in his
manner ofexpression as oftentogive needless offence;speaks
out his whole mind without due regard to time, circumstan­
ces, or manner; communicates his ideas in plain and un­
equivocal language, and prefers natural and forcible, to
elegant, expressions; is natural and open in his manners,
and, with lang. full or large, generally ready to enter into
conversation with his friends, and even with strangers, and
to communicate to them his business, history, opinions, feel­
ings, concerns, &c.; and can deceive only by means of his
reasoning faculties, or by taking those steps which are cal­
culated to cause deception.
One having secret, small, with conscien., benev., and the
reasoning organs large or very large, will be incapable of
deception; abominate and censure hypocrisy, concealment,
and mere outside-show in all those ten thousand forms in
which they are practised in society; keeps nothing back;
gives away almost entirely to his feelings unless they are
checked by his other faculties; and has a window in his
breast, through which ail that is passing in his heart, can be
plainly seen. Additional combinations will be found under
secret, moderate.
Very small.—One in whom this organ is very small, is
a total stranger to the function and the influence of ihis fac­
ulty.
A deficiency of this faculty, by exposing atonce whatever
excesses or defects of character one may possess, is apt to
leave, at first, a very unfavourable impression ofa person up­
on the minds of others, yet, ifit exposesthe more disagreea­
ble traits of character, it equally reveals thevirtues; so that,
if the agreeable traits of character greatly predominate over
the more disagreeable, the individual will appear still more
-amiable in consequence of this deficiency; and, vice versa.
This faculty, in its perverted exercise, produces lying, do-
Digitized by boogie
ceit, hypocrisy, and those ten thousand artifices in dress, fur­
niture, equipage, &c., the chief object of which is to create
falseappearances, and,also, the innumerable arts and make-be­
lieves whichenter intothevery frame-work ofsocietyas itnow
is. From this faculty, also, with large or very large appro-
bat., self-e., destruct., and combat., unrestrained by the moral
or intellectual organs, arises that tattling, backbiting, scan­
dalizing disposition which is by no means uncommon, and
which does such immense mischief.
In the New England head, this organ is generally large:
hence, that reserve in communicating things about them­
selves, and that tact in prying into the affairs of others, for
which they are so noted; but, in the Southern head, it is
small, which produces that frankness and openness which
characterize Southern gentlemen.
L o c a t io n .—Secret, is located just above the organ of de­
struct., and runs nearly parallel with it,thecentre of it being
about an inch above the top of the ears. Or thus: let a
person, standingbehind one that is seated, place the third fin­
ger horizontally upon the head, so tnat the lower side of it
will just touch the tip of the ear, and it will rest upon de­
struct.; then let the second or middle fingerbeseparated from
it about three eighths ofan inch, and itwill rest upon secret.;
or, if the organ be small, fall into a depression: then let the
first finger be separated from the second about five-eighths of
an inch, and it will rest upon cautious., which, however, will
be a little fartherback than secret. When it is large or very
large, with cautious, and destruct. also equally large, there
will be no prominence, but all ofthe side-head above the ear
will be full, rounded, and thick.
GENUS II.—Moral, Religious, and H uman Sen­
timents.
The character of the sentiments is much higher, more
elevated, and more humanizing than that ofthe propensities,
and, when not under the dominion of the propensities, is
more virtuous and more praiseworthy than perhaps any oth­
er class of the mental functions. A very correct idea of
the nature and character ofthese sentiments, may be derived
from a comparison of civilized man with savages and barba­
rians, or of man with the brute creation.
Dr. Spurzheim, George Combe, and phrenologists gener­
102 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by LooQle
CAUTIO USNESS
ally, define the sentiments as distinguishable from the pro­
pensities, by their uniting a propensity to ti~t with ari emo­
tion ; but toe author is unable to discover the reason why the
passion of love, for example, is not as much ‘an emotion
joined with a certain propensity to act,” as the function ascri­
bed to benev. Nor does the distinction that the propensities
“are common tomen and animals,” designate them with suffi­
cient accuracy, because benev,, approbat., imitat., and some
of the other sentiments, ar? found to belong to some animals
of the brute creation, as well as toman.
SPECIES I.—Selfish Sentiments.
These seem to be intermediate between the propensities
and the moral sentiments, partake, in port, of the na­
ture of both, taking their direction, and the character of
their manifestation, from the propensities when they pre­
dominate, and from the moral sentiments, in case they are
the more energelick. Like the propensities, they greatly in­
crease the propelling power, and the efficiency of the charac­
ter ; yet they terminate upon self, being blind impulses de­
signed to secure selfish interests.
II. CAUTIOUSNESS.
Solicitude about consequences—apprehension of danger-
instinct offear—care—anxiety.
So numerous and so great are the dangers with which
man is surrounded, so many evils beset his path, and
so many things are to be piovided against, that, unless there
were implanted in the human breast bv the hand of nature,
some faculty which, upon the least intimation of danger
should sound the tocsin of alarm, and thus save him from
accident, and, also, \>hich should give him cons¡deration and
forethought, he would be liable tobe frequently overtaken by
impending dangers, and, also, would make, comparatively,
little preparation for future wants. Of the necessity of the
faculty, then, there can be noquestion; nor that the function
of solicitude constitutes a very larire class of the intellectual
functions. Hence, the inevitahleeoncluston is,that there exists
a faculty which exercises this cla.^s of the mental operations.
But when we find that the strength and activity ofthis facul­
ty, when compared with the other feelings, are proportionate
103
Digitized by Google
104 P H R X N O loeY IL L U ST R A T E S.
to the size ofa given portion ofthe brain, reason and philos-:
ophy join in admitting cautiousness to bea sepirale faculty of
the mind. Its office is,to provide against present danger, to
cast up a bulwark of defence against danger in the dis­
tance, to watch over the interests of the individual, and to ex­
cite, repress, and direct the operations of the other faculties.
L arge.—One having cautious. Large, looks at every plan
and project with a careful, anxious eye before he concludes
upon the course to be pursued, and hesitates long before he
finally decides; turns the whole matter over and over again
in his mind; is very often insuspense, and remains too long
undecided ; fully considers every chance against him; takes '
all necessary, and, often, even unnecessary, precaution; too
often reconsiders, and manifests a pains-taking, careful, anx­
ious, provident disposition in all he does.
One having cautious, large, with combat, and destruct.
also large, is slow in commencing, yet when once interested
in any project, pushes it with great spirit; may be timid and
fearful till his courage is once excited, but will then be bold
and fearless; may be nearly overcome with fear before he
commences acting or speaking, and wh^re effort is unavail­
ing» yet is full of courage, and spirit, and determination
when he has once commenced, and where effort is required;
combinesdiscretion with valour; intrepidity with carefulness;
prudence with determination, &c.; in casesofdanger, will be
perfectly self-possessed, and vet have forethought enough to
do just what the occasion demands; cannot be soon worked
up to the sticking point, but is determined, if not desperate,
when once kindled; piav drive forward with some fury, but
will steer clear ofevery thing that can upset his vehicle or
obstruct his progress; and, with hope also large, will enter
so largely into business, and push his projects with so much
energy and zeal, as to seem to be very rash, and nearly des­
titute of caution, yet come out about right in the end; with
compir. and caus. large in addition, will very seldom entire­
ly fail in his projects, though he may be sometimes obliged
to retrace his steps; will present seemingly contradictory
points of character, sometimes appearing to be rash, and at
others fearful; and, with a nervous temperament, will be
either “in the garr tor in the cellarwhen circumstances
are favourtible, or excite his hopes, and quiet his fears, will be
in high hopes and spirits, and promise himselftoo much; but
when his fears are awakened, and nothing excites his hopes,
Digitized by G o o Q l e
CAUTIOUSNESS. 105
becastdown,discouraged, and exceedingly anxious, and sub­
ject to extremes of hope and fear: with very large compar.
and caus., and large perceptive oigans, will generally come
to a correct decision, yet take his own time for it; will act
underatandingly, and make every efiort tell directly on the
object in view; take hold of things juuiciously and in the
right place;seldom retrace his steps, change his decisions,or
undo what he has done; in general, will be eminently suc­
cessful, and seldom subject to accidents or disappointments;
consider well the pres and cons on both sides ofail questions,
and investigate the whole matter in hand thoroughly be­
fore decision or action.
Very Larce.—One having cautious, very large, is so
doubtful, fearful, uncertain, and apprehensive, so irresolute
and inefficient, that he is disqualified lor prompt, enterprising,
vigorous effort, and wastes the day of a<tion in fruitless de­
liberation; indulges groundlessand unfounded apprehensions;
anticipates danger wrhen there is little or no cause; is unwill­
ing to run any risk, and much more alarmed by sickness
and trouble than the occasion really demands. &c.
-One having cautious, very large, with combat.,self-e., and
hope moderate, will be irresolute; easily discouraged; un­
willing to engage in any impoitant undertaking for fear of
experiencing a failure; is timid, easily frightened, destitute
of decision and energy, and unable to effect any thing im­
portant; but if hope, firm., and self-e. are also very large,
and combat is large, cautious, will not prevent action and
effort, but will simply take care, that every thing is provided
for, arranged, and seen to: with hope, caus., and compar.
very large, and the perceptive organs large, may take some
teemiftgly bold measures, but they will be dictated by a cor­
rect judgment, rendered the more acute bv the strong ex­
citement caused by cautious.: with hope and combat, mode,
rate or small, looks always on the dark side of prospects;
borrows a world oftrouble, even in prosperity; apprehends
the worst rather than the best; indulges gloomy, dismal,
melancholy feelings, and often suffers intolerably fromthem;
poresconstantly over misfortunes; magnifies every difficulty;
diminishes advantages; feats much more than hopes; does
not venture, or run any risk ; shrinks from difficulty, and,
by histermur and alarm, is easily overcome, sothat hecannot
act on occasions of danger.
F ull.—>One having cautious, /¿¿//»will possess a suffi-
5*
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
106 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED *
cient degree of this faculty to secure success, and provide
against accidents in ordinary ca3es, yet will frequently seem
to be very imprudent) does not act without care and fore­
thought, yet does not consider so long as to let pass the day
for action; and cannot be called rash or careless, except
when rendered so by his other faculties.
One having cautious, full, with hope and combat, large or
very large, will not possess sufficient circumspection to regu­
late and prevent the precipitate action of these faculties, and
thus be hurried heidlong bythem into projects without suffi­
cient caution or forethought, and will seem to be much less
cautious than he really is.
When full, large, or very large, cautions, acts with a
vigour reciprocally proportionate to the power ofthis faculty
anl the strength of the desires of the other faculties. For
eximple; one hiving cautious full, large, or very large, with
f>hilopro. very large, and acquis, smilt, will experience but
ittle solicjtule concerning his property, but feel the greatest
anxiety concerning his children ; but, with the same degree
ofcaurious., and acquis, very large, and philopro. small, will
expen1 hi3 anxiety upon his property, and feel little for his
children: with approbit. very large, will be over-anxious
* about his character and his standing: \vith: conscien. very
large, upon every point of duty, dtc. This -accounts for the
phenomena, so frequently occurring, of an extreme anxiety
concerning some things, and a want of it in other things—a
class of phenomena which no •ther system of mental phi­
losophy has ever accounted for or can ever explain.
Moderate.—One having cautious, moderate, will discov­
er a want of forethought and discretion, yet the extentof thia
deficiency will be greater or lessaccording as his other facul­
ties do,or donot,expose him todanger. One having cautious,
moderate, for example, with hope and combat, also moderate,
will need but little cautious, to restrain the excessesproduced
by these faculties; with combat, and hope large or very large,
will be hasty, inconsiderate,and improvident; with caus. and
cornpar. very large, when not blinded bv passion or preju­
dice, mavbe judicious,and lay good plans; with acquis, very
large, will take good care of his property, yet be careless in
other respects, &c. The remainingcombinationsofcautious,
moderate,will be intermediate between those under cautious,
full, and cautious, small.
Shall.—One having cautious, small, will decide and act
Digitized by L.ooQle
ÀPPROBATIVENESS.
without due deliberation ; be careless, precipitate, imprudent,
and, consequently, often unlucky,and subject to frequent acci­
dents ; will fail to perfect his plans, and therefore, often be
obliged to undo what he has done; proceed without fore­
thought or care, and thus labour to the greatestdisadvantage;
will sustain repeated and heavy misfortunes; and, with com­
bat. and destruct. large, will drive forward in a furious, reck­
less manner, so as often to defeat his plans, and frequently
be in hot water; will know nothing about fear; but, with
large or very large reasoning organs, may proceed so habit­
ually under the influence of reason as to sustain few losses,
yet will lack solicitude, &c.
Very Small.—One with cautious, very small, will be
destitute of fear, of forethought, of discretion, &c., and, con­
sequently, rash, heedless, headlong, regardless of consequen­
ces, unfortunate, and governed by his other faculties.
This faculty is generally much more active, and the organ
much stronger, in females tnan in males; while combat,
and destruct. are much smaller. Hence, the irresolution,
fear, terrour, groundless alarms, and uncalled for anxiety,
which they so often manifest: and alsothe superiour discreet­
ness and propriety they generally possess over the other sex.
In children, too, this organ is much larger than in adults,
doubtless because their dangers being greater, the protection
demanded is proportionally greater.
Location.—This organ is located just above, and partly
behind, secret. Or thus: when the head is erect, cautious,
will be found upon the sides of the head, just back of a per­
pendicular line passing through the opening of the ears
12. APPROBATIVENESS.
Love of the approbation of men—sense of character-
desire for the favourable estimation, and the good opinion,
of others—ambition for distinction and popularity—love
of fame, ¿fc.
Certain actions are considered praiseworthy, while others
are considered disgraceful, which proves that the mind is sb
constituted as to approve of some things, and disapprove of
others. Hence, we infer the existence of a distinct faculty
which exercises this class of functions, and the facts that the
strength ofthis class of functions is various, being energetick
in some, and weak in others—that it ismanifested in propor«
107
Digitized by Google
108 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
tion to the development of a certain portion of the brain—
and that it is an instinctive and intuitive, and not secondary
exercise of the mind, and that it is unique and homogeneous
in its character, establish the conclusion, that it is the pro­
duct of a distinct faculty of the mind.
This faculty does not decide what actions are praisewor­
thy and what are not, but only arraigns the actions before
such a standard as may have been settled upon by custom,by
the dictates of the other faculties, by the passions, &c., and
praises or blames, accordingas they do, or do not,conformto
this standard. This standard has more or less reference to
the moral qualities of actions, and, doubtless, if left to act in
conjunction with a full and equal development of the other
faculties, particularly of conscipn., and if it were not warped
by education, or the customs of society, would approvethose
actions which are moral, and frown upon those that are
immoral. Yet such is the influence of custom and of “the
fashions’*in this matter, that the decisions of this faculty are
not, in the least, to be relied upon as a standard of virtue.
Properly trained, it would promote decency and propriety of
appearance and manners; yet, as now manifested, it oftener
produces the most disagreeable, not to say, sinful, actions,
under the sanction of fashion. Its influence, however, in
promoting morality and refinement, and in preventing vice
by censuring it, is very great.
Large.—One havingapprobat. large, isextremelysensitive
upon every point connected with his honour, his character,
his reputation, &c., and, in all he does, will have an eye to
the approbation and the disapprobation of his fellow men;
frequently asks himself, if not others, what do, or what will,
people think of this or that performance, course of conduct,
&c.; is very desirous of being thought and spoken well of,
of being noticed and commended, esteemed, praised, and ad­
mired ; instinctively shrinks from whatever is considered
disgraceful; will be affable, courteous, polite, and mindful of
appearances, and frequently experience, in a very high de­
gree, the feelings of mortification and shame.
One having approbat. large, with adhes. large or very
large, will be extremely sensitive to the approbation and the
disapprobation, particularly of his friends; and with seif-e.
moderate, and firm, only full, will be disposed to act in con­
formity with their wishes, lest he should incur their censure
or ridicule, which have a withering effect upon him; and,
Digitized by b o o g i e
APPR0BATIVENES3. 109
with combat and destruct. large in addition, will be too
quickly offended by any coldness or apparent neglect, and
too ready to construe any want ofattention into dislike; will
avenge his injured honour, and never allow any disgrace to
be attached to his character: with self-e. only full, benev., at
least, large, combat., destruct., and secret, only full, individ.,
event., lang., imitat., ideal., and compar. large or very large,
will be a perfect gentleman: with secret, large,andconscien.
moderate or small, will do things in secret which he would
not, for the world, have divulged; be governed far more
by the voice of publick opinion, than by the dictates of jus­
tice and conscience, and make the former, rather than the
latter, his code of morals; but with conscien. larger than ap-
prohat., will fall in with publick opinion so far as he con­
siders it right, but no farther, and,with combat, also large,
will not only breast publick opinion with boldness, but will
glory in facing the frown of men while engaged in what he
considers a righteous cause: with benev. large, will add to
his strong desire to please those around him, a strong desire
to makethem happy, which together will make him doubly
obliging and attentive to the wants ofothers: with cautious.,
secret., ven., and conscien. large or very large, and self-e.
small, will have a very strong desire to please, and, also,
great anxiety lest he should not succeed in pleasing; feel a
great deference, especiallyfor superiours in age, talents, &c.;
possess a feeling of his own unwoTthiness and inferiority;
and also of reserve, which together produce extreme diffi­
denceand backwardness; a naturalshrinking fromexposure;
and a bashful feeling, from which, when he is among stran­
gers, he will suffer intolerably: with combat., destruct., self-e.,
firm., ideal., individ., event., and lang. large, and compar.
and caus. very large, will possess, not only a high order of
talent, but, also, that restless ambition fordistinction and fame
which will spur him on to use his utmostefforts to attain pre­
eminence, and thus enable him to distinguish himself, par­
ticularly for his intellectual qualities: with cautious, and
conscien. very large, secret, full, and the intellectual organs
large, will fear to be noticed, lest he should be reproached j
appear before the publick with extreme reluctance; shrink
from the popular gaze; sometimes feel almost compelled to
abandon any undertaking in which he may be en­
gaged, and shrink fromthethoughtof publick responsibility:
with self-e. full or large, hope very large, combat., ideal., in-
Digitized by L.ooQle
110 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
divid., lang., and compar. large, and conscien., yen., and cans,
only full, will take the other extreme; be likely to put him­
self forward in conversation, debate, publick meetings, socie­
ties, parties, &c., be officious, vam, and conceited, and too apt
to meddle in affairs which belong to others : with ideal, very
large, caus. only full, and a smaller sized brain, will be a fash­
ionable dandy, who will devote himself chiefly to dress, eti­
quette, and tea-tabletalk, which will be without sense or point,
and, though he may pass well in fashionable society, will
be unable to think or reason upon subjects, &c.
Very large.—One having approbat. very large, will re­
gard his character as the apple of his eye, and the approba­
tion of his fellow men as the idol of his heart; will be with­
ered by the finger of scorn or the breath of slander; unable
to bear up under ridicule, and be ever goaded by a morbid
sensibility to shame and reproach. One having approbat.
very large, with self-e. large, caus. only full, ana a brain of
only ordinary size, will be both proud ana vain; inclined to be
very ceremonious, merely for effect,and forthesake ofappear­
ances ; affected in his manners; excessively eager for fame,
and ever fishing for popularity, yet destitute of the talents re­
quisite to obtain his desires; and, with ideaL very large, will
be a gay, dressy, showy, affected, ceremonious fop or belle,
floating upon the surface, or following the wake, of popular
applause and fashion, and a perfect index of both, shifting,
like the weather-cock, with every changing breeze of pub-
lick opinion, &c. Under approbat. large, will be found ad­
ditional descriptions and combinations, which will apply to
approbat. very large, except that they are not sufficiently in­
tense.
F ull.—One having approbat. full,will place a high esti­
mate upon his character, and be by nomeans indifferent as to
what may be thought and said of him, yet will sacrifice his
honour upon the altar of his stronger passions; will possess
sufficient approbat. to create ambition, and a high sense of
honour, if not a strongdesireto gain popularity, and yet, from
this motive alone, will not materially injure himself, nor will
he turn aside from the object he may be pursuing to pluck
the wreaths of popular applause; may seek distinction, and,
indeed, manifest a strong desire or make great sacrifices to
obtain it, yet he will seek it, not chiefly as an end, but partly
as an end, and partly as a means; will not be governed by
the voice of publick opinion, yet will not by any means, be
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
APPROBATIVENESS. I l l
insensible to its dictates; and will so conduct as to secure the
good will of all, at least, as far as he can do so consistently
with the gratification and the demands of his other faculties,
yet no farther.
One having approbat. full, with adhes. large, will seek to
please his friends, and, to escape their displeasure, in doing
this, will sometimes even go farther than he ought: with
large or very large firm., self.e., and conscien., ana full com­
bat., will first please himself, faithfully discharge his duty,
and seek honour as a secondary object; will be sufficiently
condescending and affable to please all, and yet be too firm
and independent ever to be enticed from the path of rectitude
by the syren voice of popularity, or driven from it by the
voice of publick censure; wil o , he ridic­
ulous whims of “fashion,” because “everybody else does so,”
nor yet beso.inattentive to what is generally approved as tobe
singular, and, without cause, to incur the displeasure of any
one: with,combat., destruct., amat., selfie.,and ven. full, benev.,
Conscien., ideal., adhes., mirth., imitat., lang., and the rea­
soning organs large or very large, will be a favourite, go
where he will; will please all, and yet command respect from
all; be neither stubborn nor obsequious; will be pleasing, dig­
nified,and popular in his manners, and reasonablycondescend­
ing, yet sufficiently independent; and, without aUempting to
do so, will readily enlist the good will and the affections of
all, and especially ofthe other sex. The combinations under
approbat. large, modified by a diminution of the influence of
approbat., will apply to approbat. full. They will be inter­
mediate between those under approbat. large, and approbat.
moderate.
The direction taken by approbat. full, large, or very large,
and the objects upon which it fastens, are determined by its
combinations, ana, also, by the circumstances in which the
individual has been educated. For example; approbat. full,
large, or very large, combined with large or very large com­
bat. arid destruct., and educated in a warlike community,
would fasten, for its object, upon warlike exploits, upon intre­
pidity, bravery, and, perhaps, even upon acts of bloodshed,
or create in its possessor, a desire to be considered the best
boxer, pugilist, wrestler, &c.: with aliment, very large, tobe’
noted for the quantity he can eat or drink : with large con­
struct, ideal., and imitat., to be considered^the best mechan-
lowering frown of popular hoarse
Digitized by Google
112 PHRBNOLOOY ILLU STRATED .
íck, or create a mechanical ambition: with large or very,
large moral organs, will create a moral ambition, and desL*e^
to be distinguished for m orality, for piety, for honesty/
and for a correct, if not religious, walk and conversation:
with ideal, moderate, and conscien. and ven. large or very
large, will create no desire to obtain the kind of distinction
and approbation awarded to fine clothes, splendour of equi­
page, the pomp of riches, &c., yet will place the highest ea*
timate upon the approbation awarded to a moral, virtuous,
and religious life: with very large ideal., mirth., cornpar.,
and caus., the perceptive organs generally large, and the
propensities only full, will seek distinction as a wit, a poet,
an orator, a scholar, a writer, or for his intellectual, rather
than his physical or animal, qualities, &c.
Moderate.—One having approbat. moderate,will not be
materially influenced by what others may think of him or
his actions; will not be particularly emulous nor ambitious,
nor care much for reproach and ridicule, &c. One having
approbat. moderate, with firm, and self-e. large or very large,
and ven. moderate, will be too austere and too independent
to give general satisfaction, and lack the condescension requi­
site tobecome popular and be generally beloved, and, even if
his talents are such asto place him in stations of trust and
publick observation, he will have many enemies, and, when­
ever duty, or judgment, or interest* demands it, will do just
what he chooses to do, whether his conduct be approved or
censured, even though he knows it will bring down publick
odium upon his head.
Small.—One having approbat. small, will experience but
little shame; be comparatively insensible to ridicule and re­
proach ; and indifferent whether his conduct, appearance, ex­
pressions, &c., please or displease. One having approbat
small, with large intellectual and simi-intellectual organs,
may possess commanding talents, yet will have too little ambi­
tion, and too little loveof fame, to exert and apply his powers,
&c. The combinations under approbat. small, will be the
reverse ofthose under approbat. full, large, or very large, so
far as these phenomena are the productofthese.several states
of its development.
Perhaps no faculty is more frequently perverted, or moré
injurious in its operation, especially upon the oirtuous poor%
than approbat. The rich, in order to gratify this passion,
“have sought out many inventions” by which to distinguish
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
SELF-ESTEEM . 113
themselves from the poor, and attract attention; and the poor
exhaust all their powers to follow in the footsteps of the
rich, and in doing this, they even take their bread out of their
mouths. The rich, finding themselves partially imitated,
change the fashion, and are again followed by the poor.
Thus it is that a vast amount of time, and labour, and com­
fort, and, it might be safely added, of virtue, too, is worse
than wasted. This evil is daily augmenting, and the pros­
pect of a reform daily diminishing. It holds an equal sway
in the church and in the state, polluting the holy garments
of the one, and destroying the liberty and the virtue of the
other. The tyranny with which it rides over the necks of
men, is a huncfred fold more despotick than ever tyrant sway­
ed overhissubjects,and nowhere does it hold so cruel a des­
potism, and rule with such an iron sceptre, as in this our boast­
ed land of freedom and equal rights. Here, one must not
speak out boldly his honest sentiments—must not dothis, and
must do that, because, forsooth, to do otherwise will be un-
popular; and whatever is unpopular, is proscribed, and visited
with a frown as deadly and as withering in its effects as the
samiel winds of the Arabian desert. But, so long as men
will follow, and submit to, so fickle and sotyrannical a dame
as fashion, they need not complain of “hard times” and of
the teh thousand miseries which she heaps upon the devoted
heads of her subjects.
Location.—Approbat. is located between cautious, and
•elf-e. See location of self-e.
13. SELF-ESTEEM.
Selfrespect— self-confidence— self-complacency and sat­
isfaction—high-mindedness—independence—nobleness—love
of liberty and freedom.
The proper office of this faculty is to create, in the bosom
of its possessor, a good opinion of himself; of his own char­
acter and opinions, and of whatever belongs to, or proceeds
from, himself; to beget an esteem and respect for himself;
to feel satisfied with himself, and unwilling to change his
identity and mental qualities for those of another; to give a
manly tone to the character and turn to the conduct, and a
dignified, erect attitude and bearing to the person, and thus,
to exert an important infiuence inelevating and ennobling the
character of man. And what is still more important, it gives
Digitized by Google
114 PHRENOLOGY ILLU STRATED .
that innate love of personal liberty and independence, andof'
religious freedom, so deeply seated in the nature of man,and
so conducive to his virtue and happiness^ which constitutes
the sole foundation of his free institutions, civil rights, and
religious privileges, and inspires him with an aversion to
every thing connected with arbitrary authority, despotick
rule, or religious intolerance, and gives him that spirit of re­
sistance to such things, which no despotism can destroy, no
arbitrary authority crush or long subdue.
The proof of the existence of this faculty, as a separate
and primary mental power, is derived from the same data
which establishes the existence of the other faculties.
Large.—One having self-e. large, will be independent,
and place a high value upon himself; feel that whatever he
thinks or does, is wellthought anddone; throw himself back
upon his own unaided resources, and tely upon his owaPjudg-
ment and strength ; willnever knowingly degrade ordemean
himself; aspire at something commanding; never be content
to be dependent or to serve,but rather aspire to be himselfa
leader and commander of others; will despise and detest
meanness, and shrink from it; and assumean appearance of
dignity and manliness, calculated to command respect.
The manifestations of self-e. take their character ridejly
from the combinations of this faculty with the other facul­
ties. For example; combined with large or very large com­
bat., destruct., and firm., and with only moderate or full con-
scien., ven., benev., and reasoning faculties, it makes one
haughty, domineering, overbearing, dogmatical, arbitrary,
egotistical, arrogant, authoritative, conceited, and extremely
selfish, while the same amount of self-e., combined withonly
full combat, and destruct., and with very large benev. apd
reasoning organs, large conscien., ideal., ven., and perceptive
faculties, and a large brain, will impart to the character a
commanding dignity, a nobleness, a high-toned sense of hon­
our, an elevation, and authority which cannot but command
universal respect and admiration; which scorn a vulgar,
common, or trifling act or expression; and impart an air of
greatness and magnanimity to the whole man.
One having selfe. large, with amat. and adhes. large, may
love strongly and tenderly, especially when his love is in
harmony with his ideas of propriety, yet will never sacrifice
his independence to his love, nor break down under the pres­
sure of blighted affections: with the domestickorgans gene*
Digitized by b o o Q l e
SELF-ESTEEM. lid
l*Ly large, will love his family, yet make them obey him:
with acquis, full or large, will place a high estimate upon
what he possesses, upon his horse, his farm, his etcet.: with
combat, large, and firm, large or very large, will pursue his
own straightforward course, and will not be dictated to; is
disposed to lead, and to push himself forward ; feels that
he is as good and as worthy as anybody else: with cautious,
large, in order to form his own judgment, may sometimes
ask advice, and then follow it or not, according as it does, or
does not, coincide with his own views; and will be so solicit­
ous about every thing which is likely to affect him, and so
fearful lest, in some way, he should lower himself down,
that he may, at times, be disconcerted, and diffident, and ap­
pear awkward and unbending in his manners: with combat,
and destruct large, and conscien. only full, will experience
strong indignation at every word or deed calculated to throw
him into the shade, or derogatory to his character; and will
guard, with a jealous eye, his liberty, his personal preroga­
tives, and whatever belongs to him, &c.: with compar. and
cans, only full, will make greater pretensions to knowledge
and talent than heisin reality able to sustain and fulfil; and,
with only a middling-sized brain, thinks and talks much
more of himself than others do of him ; pushes himself for­
ward where he is not wanted; and is proud,- egotistical, and
self-important: with combat, and destruct. full, benev., hope,
ideal., individ., event., and lang. large, and compar. and caus.
very large, accompanied with a large and an active brain,
will not only possess talents ofa high order, but will so em­
ploy them as to cut a bold and commanding figure wherever
ne moves, and add to it that weight and force of character,
that dignity, and magnanimity of feeling, which will com­
mand an extensive influence in the world; advance him to
some commanding station,and enable him to sustain himself
in it with great ability and dignity; will place such unbound­
ed confidence in himself, and also have such towering ambi­
tion, that he will attempt great things, and also have the tal­
ent requisite to carry them through; will not besatisfied with
ordinary attainments, but will grasp at some great, some im­
posing object, and aspire to pre-eminence; will aim high;
never trifle with himself, nor allow others to trifle with him ;
and be emphatically magnanimous, yet not manifest pride or
haughtiness, merely because he has too much good sense to
0
Digitized by L.ooQle
116 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
do so. The same combination of other organs, with eetffc,
very large, will produce the same result. */
Very large.—One having self-e. very large, willingly
assumes the responsibility, will think too much of himself
of his opinions, plans, judgment, &c.j and, with combat,
large, and caus. and conscien. only moderate, will be likely
to be regardless of the frown and of the favour of men;
deaf to reproof; liable to have many enemies; intractable,
bold, proud, haughty, domineering, forward, conceited, jeal­
ous, austere, and repulsive; tobe blind to his faults, and un­
able to see his errours, be they ever so glaring, because he
will feel that he is well nigh infallible; will look down with
a kind of contempt upon the great mass of his fellow men,
and treat even his equals as though they were his inferiours;
will be extremely ambitious to obtain power, and also arbi­
trary in its exercise; insensible to the shafts of ridicule,
thinking that surely he cannot be intended; by his manner
and expression, will give an air of consequence and import­
ance towhat he says; with approbat. moderate or small, and
firm, large or very large, will be perfectly independent; will
go straight forward in his own way, follow his own judg­
ment, and defy the consequences, &c. Many of the combi­
nations under self-e. large, will apply toself-e. very large.
F ull.—One having self-e. full, will think well of him­
self, yet, when benev., conscien., and caus. are large or very
large, his self-e. will manifest itself in creating a manly, no­
ble, self-respectful feeling, which will prevent him from do­
ing any thing beneath himself; will be sufficiently conde­
scending, yet not servile, and enabled and disposed to pay a
due.respect, not only to himself, but also to his fellow-men ;
will possess sufficient force and weight of character to do a
good business and sustain himself; to mingle dignity with
condescension and talent, and so conduct himself as to be
generally respected; will neither assume too much to him­
self, nor yield too much to others; and will maintain his
rights and bis self-respect, so that others can have no face to
trifle with or trample upon him, and yet, will not be haughty
or conceited.
Moderate.—One having selfe. moderate, places too lot*
an estimate upon himself, upon his own judgment, and is too
ready to give in to the judgment of others; will lack the re­
quisite independence, manliness, high-mindedness, and self-
confidence to beat his own way through life, and will suffer
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
SELF-ESTEEM. 117
from a feeling of unworthiness; will fear to trespass upon
the attention of others, and not possess an influence equal to
his character and talents, merely because he does not as­
sume enough to himself. One having self-e. moderate, with
combat., firm., and conscien. large or very large, will possess
genuine firmness ofcharacter, and much moral courage, yet
will seldom manifest them in bold relief, except when under
excitement, or in the defence ofmoral principle, or the cause
of virtue, or in doing what he considers to be his duty: with
firm, only full, may be too easily led away, and too ready to
ask and to follow advice, and too obsequious, especially if
cautious, is large or very large: with large intellectual
faculties, may possess talents ofa high order, yet, from want
of self-confidence and boldness to pretend toconsiderable, and
in consequence of occasionally letting himself down in his
expressions and appearance, and trifling writh himself and
with others, wrill have much less influence than he might
have if possessed of more self-e., &c.
Small.—One having self-e. small, will sink into compar­
ative insignificance in his own estimation, and be tormented
with a feeling of unworthiness and inferiority; will feel too -
humble and submissive, and too dependant and diminutive,
which will still be increased by laTge ven. and conscien.;
w’ill underrate himself, his judgment, his talents, &c., and,
therefore, be undervalued by others; will make himself too
common and familiar, and associate so much with inferiours,
that he will fail to command general respect and confidence;
will be too trifling in his manners and expressions; more apt
to follow than to lead; and too modest and backward to ap­
pear well; and will not be likely to advance himselfto some
oold and commanding position, and maintain himself in it,
even though, with large ideal, and intellectual organs, and a
large brain, his talents may be abundantly sufficient for that
purpose; yet,with firm, very large, will nevertheless be de
termined, persevering, &c.
Very Small.—One having self-e. very small, with con-
*:ien. and cautious, very large, will be always dissatisfied
with, and have a miserable opinion of, himself, and all he
does; and, with hope only moderate, fear to attempt any
thing which involves responsibility, lest he should fail to do
all that may be required of him ; will feel ashamed to hold
up his head, or look his fellow-men in the face; and be ah
ways condemning himself.
Digitized by L.ooQle
Location.—Self-e. is located on the mesial line of the
head, about half an inch above the union of the lambdoidal
sutures, and directly back of firm.; or, in the middle of the
superiour-inferiour portion of the head, at an angle of about
forty-five degrees with the plane of the base of the skull.
Approbat. is located on the two external sides of it, and cau-
toius. beyond approbat., in the same range.
The existence ofthis faculty demonstratesthe position,that
the feeling or principle of liberty and of equal rights, is in­
alienable, and inherent in the very nature and constitution of
man ; that, therefore, it can no morebe destroyed than hunger,
or love; that a purely republican and democratick form of
government is the only one adapted tothe nature of man, and
the only one calculated to secure universal satisfaction and
happiness;and that the subjugation ofman by his fellow-man,
is an open violation of the principles of human nature. If
our rulers only understood this principle of our nature, and
if all the landmarks and all the regulations of government
only proceeded upon it, subjection and servitude, in all those
ten thousand forms which they assume in society, would be
at once abolished. By creating every man free to choose or
refuse the evil or the good, God allows every man to govern
himselfj and, surely, then, me»ought toallow one another to
govern themselves, subject, however, inthe latter case, as they
are in the former, to those regulations which are necessary
to the general good, and, also, to be “ rewarded according to
their deeds.”
There is no danger that this feeling will ever be extin­
guished ;but, in case thesubjugation and servitude of man, in
any form, should be carried to a very great length, there
is danger, ay, a moral certainty, of a revolution, and a rev­
olution, too, attended with a violence proportionate to the
pressure laid upon it. In this country, there is no likelihood,
nor scarcely a possibility, ofa despotick form of government,
but there is danger ofa moneyed despotism—of aristocratick
monopolies, and ofthe powerful’s tyrannizing over the weak,
and because they are poor or friendless. This same love
of being free ourselves, and of ruling ourselves, reaches still
farther, and desires to govern others. Slowly but surely, as
it were, ih the insinuating, yet resistless, folds of the Boa
Constrictor, is this serpentine aristocracy subcluing and sub­
jugating, by piece-meal, particularly the virtuous and the
talented poor of our country ; and, should things progress,
113 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by Google
FIRMNESS. 119
for sixty years to come, as they have donesince the Revolu­
tion, this nation, the birthplace and the cradle of liberty,
will be ruled by an aristocracy, not of government, but of
monopoly, of wealth, &c.., far more tyrannical than any na­
tion under heaven. But, thanks to the great Author of our
being, man’s nature is unalterable; the spirit of Seventy-six,
and the love 6fliberty, will live and will increase, and wo be
to those^ that ride over it. The great doctrine of human
rights—of liberty—of free government—of “ INDEPEND­
ENCE,” will live and spread, and root up, and trample
down, every vestige of tyranny, of aristocracy, and of ser­
vitude.
14. FIRMNESS.
Stability—decision of character—fixedness of purpose-
desire to continue—aversion to change.
The necessity of some faculty, to which to refer that stead­
fastness, perseverance, and unwillingness to relinquish what
has been undertaken, which are so indispensable to success,
and so common phenomena of the human mind, is too ob­
vious to need comment; and the frequent instances of down­
right obstinacy, and of blind adherence to what has been
adopted, and solely because it has been adopted, afford con­
clusive evidenceof the existence of firm, as a primary faculty
of the human mind.
L a r g e .— One having firm, large, will be so stable, de­
cided, determined, &c., that he may be relied upon; and
be very unwilling to change his plans, opinions, purposes,
course of conduct, or whatever he undertakes or adopts. One
having firm, large, with combat., destruct., and self-e. full
or large, will add perseverance to stability, and not only hold
on to his plans to the last, but, also, drive them forward with
great determination through opposing difficulties:with self-e.
iarge or very large, is so sure and certain that he is right,
that there will be the greatest difficulty in convincing him
that he is wrong or in turning him from his purposes; yet,
if the reasoning organs are very large, he may listen to
strong and conclusive arguments: with cautious, large,may
seem to waver, and to lack decision of purpose, but this will
be the case only before he has fully decided, and openly com­
mitted himself, and when his fear is so active as to overcome
his firmness: with hope very large, and cautious, only mode­
Digitized by b o o g i e
1 2 0 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
rate, may start on foot so many new projects as to appear
fickle, yet the phenomena will proceed rather from an excess
of hope, than from a deficiency of firm.: with adhes. and
benev. very large, may be easily persuaded, or led, espe­
cially by friends, yet cannot be driven the least: with com­
bat., destruct., self-e., hope, and caus. large or very large, not
only holds on to his own opinions and plans with great tena­
city, but also drives forward whatever he undertakes with
great energy, and can be turned aside or drivenfrom his pur­
poses only by compulsion or impossibilities; is pre-eminently
persevering, if not really obstinate, and is well qualified to
complete what he undertakes: with the perceptive organs, at
least, full, the reasoning organs very large, and cautious,
large, will lay his plans for a long time to come, and pursue
a preconcerted, systematick course of action, and thus effect
important objects; may take some time to make up his mind,
yet will seldom change it; will be slow in undertaking, but
unchanging in executing; and may always be relied upon:
with combat, and self-e. large,ven. moderate,and the reasoning
organs only full, will not be open to conviction, nor feel the
force of reasons urged against him, but will blindly and tena­
ciously adhere to his opinions and determinations, and seem
to be much more firm than he really is, &c.
Very large.—One having firm, very large, wiil be
likely to be obstinate, if not really stubborn; and, with seif-e.
large, will be unbending, and yield only to dire necessity or
compulsion; and, when he has once committed himself, will
turn comparatively a deaf ear to the voice of entreaty, of
threatening, of reason, and even of interest, and all for no
other reason than because he will or will not; with hope
and combat, also large, will boldly encounter the greatest
difficulties; “ hope against hopeand possess the greatest
fortitude, and the most unbending determination: with self,»,
large, cautious, moderate, and caus. only full, wifi make up
his mind at once, and upon a parJal view of the subject,
and then absolutely refuse to change it; will think himself
willingtosee his errours and listen toreasonable advice, white
the doors of his mind will bebarred and bolted against every
thing designed or calculated to convince or turru him; and
may be called blindly obstinate and mulish: with the reason­
ing organslarge, will be loath, and even sometimes refuse, to
change, when his reason tells him that he oughtto do so. yet
may be influenced by very strong motives, and very urgent
Digitized by boogie
FIRMNESS. 121
reasons: but,if the moral and reasoning faculties predomi­
nate over the selfish, firm, will seldom manifest itself in
downright obstinacy. The combinations under firm, large,
modified by an increase of the influence of firm., will apply
to firm, very large.
F ull.—One having firm, full, will possess, except in a
less energetick and apparent degree, those qualities ascribed
to firm, large, with this important exception, that he will be
much more liable to abandon his purposes, and appear to be
changeable, not because firm, is absolutely deficient, but be­
cause the other more powerful faculties cause it to yield to
their demands. When, therefore, his other faculties which
are large or very large, act in conjunction with his firm.,
he will be so firm as to be thought obstinate, but, when his
larger faculties act in opposition to firm., he will manifest
fickleness. For example; one having firm, full, aided by
large combat, and self-e., (which add self-confidence and re­
sistance to firmness,) and, also, bybright hopes ofsuccess, will
show a great amount ofdecision and perseverance, especially
when his feeling of resistance is awakened; but, when hope
is very large, he will be likely to become dissatisfied with
his present situation and success, and to grasp eagerly at any
new object to which his hope may allure him: with cau­
tious. very large, and combat, only moderate, will often fear
to proceed, and be irresolute, because he fancies there is
“ some lion in the way:” with self-e. small, will have so lit­
tle confidence in himself, that he will be unwilling to trust
his own judgment, and thus too often listen to advice: with
approbat. very large, may frequentlyvary his course in order
to adapt himselfto publick opinion: with cautious, large, and
caus. and compar. very large, will generally decide and pro­
ceed sojudiciously as seldom toneed tochange; yet, in almost
any combination, the individual will maintain his opinions,
however he may change his plans and course of conduct.
Firm, full, large, or very large, acts with the greatest
vigour in combination with the other faculties that are most
energetick. For example; one having firm, ofa given size,
with adhes. very large, and acquis, small, will be more con­
stant in his adherence to friends than to money-making pur­
suits in proportion as his adhes. is more vigorous than his
acquis.: with combat, large and philopro. small, will have
very little patience or perseverance with regard to children^
yet will manifest great determination, and even obstinacy
6
Digitized by b o o g i e
122 PHRENOLOGY illustrated.
when his spirit of resistance is kindled: with the intellectua.
organs large and self-e. small, will persevere in his literary
pursuits, yet will be too easily made to believe that he is
wrong, arid too easily led, &c.
Moderate.—One having firm, moderate, willbelikely to
be inconstant, changeable, and fluctuatingin his character; to
be doing one thing to-day, and another to-morrow, and can­
not be depended upon. One having firm, moderate, with ad-
hes. large or very large, will love his friendsardently forthe
time being, yet frequently change friends for slight cause?,
lovingthose whoare lastanduntried,thebest:withcombat,and
destruct. large, in the prosecution ofhis plans, may drive all
before him for awhile, yet will soon change his course; may
be bold and courageous in the onset, yet will fail tocarry the
matter out, or execute his threats: with approbat. large, and
self-e. only moderate, will domuch as he is told to do; follow
the adviceof every onej and be always shifting toadapt him­
selftocircumstances: withcautious, large or very large, will
be always “halting between two opinions,” and always unde­
termined as to his plan of operation: with the intellectual
organs generally large, may be a rapid, but will not be a
persevering, scholar; will have a thorough and profound
knowledge of no branch of science; and allow trifles to di­
vert him from his purposes.
Small.—One having firm, small,will begin many things,
yet complete very few; cannot be depended upon; will be
fickle, unstable, inconstant in every thing, &c.; may sow
much, yet will not remain to reap the fruits of his labours,
and thus bring to pass very little. The combinations under
firm, moderate, modified by a still farther reduction cf the
influence of firm., will apply to firm, small.
Very small.—When firm,is very small, the subject will
be the sport of the other faculties.
Location.—Firm, is located in the back part of the top
of the head. When the head is erect, a perpendicular line,
drawn from the external opening of the ear to the top of
the head, will pass throughthe anteriorportion of the organ.
It is usually the highest portion of the American and the
English head. In the cut of the head of Aurelia Chase, k
is very large. ;
Digitized by boogie
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS FACULTIES. 123
/
SPECIES II.—Moral and R eligious Faculties.
, Man7has always been considered “a religious animal.”
It will hardly bedenied that, aside from his “loveofmoney,”
and the means employed to obtain it, religion of some kind,
and religion in some form, have constituted, and still consti­
tute, one of the leading, not to say, all-absorbing, objects of
human contemplation and pursuit. Scarcely a single nation
or tribe of men has ever been known -to exist, whose religion
did not enter into, if not even constitute, the very texture of
all the habits and the character ofthat nation or tribe. Take
away the religion of the Hindoo, of the Asiatick nations, of
the Ethiopian race, of the tawny sons of our western wilds,
pf the European nations or of their descendants in America,
or, indeed, of any other “nation, or kindred, or tongue under
heaven,” and, with Micah, they would at once exclaim, “Ye
have taken away my gods: what have l more?” And, so
long as the nature of man remains unchanged, there is no
possibility of his being less religious than he always hasbeen.
m e have to fear only that his religious doctrines will be er­
roneous, and his religious life and practices therefore incor­
rect; or, in other words, that his moral faculties will make
him immoral. To avoid this evil, and to secure one of the
greatest of blessings, namely, a correct religious belief and
practice, let him fully analyze his religious faculties, and
adopt those practices which they clearly point out.
■*Now, reason teaches us, that the nature of man must neces­
sarily be in perfect harmony with the moral government of
God, and with the moral constitution ofthe universe; and, if
phrenology istrue, the morality it inculcates,must necessarily
he in perfect harmony with the nature of man: so that, upon
jfctteprinciple that any two things which are each like a third,
are, therefore, like each other, it follows, that the moral prin­
ciples of phrenology must be in perfect harmony with the
moral principles and constitution of the universe; because
each is in harmony with the nature of man. And, as the
^ paoral government of God must be in harmony with both the
iioral character and attributes of the Deity, and, also, with
is natural kingdom, it follows, that phrenology, if true,
must be in perfect harmony with the natural and the moral
governmentandattributes ofthe great Creator and Governour
of ihe universe. And if revelation is also true, its doctrines
and precepts must be in harmony with those taught by phre-
Digitized by GooQle
124 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
nology. In other words; if revelation and phrenology are
both true, there must be a perfect harmony and coincidence
between the theology of phrenology, and the theology of
revelation. In this case, each would assist to explainand in­
terpret the other, and both together, would give a far more
perfect view of theology and religion, than either can do
separately. And if, through prejudice, or blindness, or wick­
edness, any one should pervert either, he may readily be
corrected by the other.
The authors are free to acknowledge,that they have more
hope that their fellow men will be brought to a correct
knowledge ofthe only true religion, and, also, to a right un­
derstanding and a proper application of revelation, through
the instrumentality of phrenology, than by any, ifnot every,
other means now in operation. The grounds of this hope
will be more fully presented in a subsequent chapter, in
which the theology of phrenology will be compared with
that of revelation, the phrenological answer given to the
question, “ In what does true religion consist?”andthe moral
and religious bearings ofphrenology will be considered and
presented.
15. CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
Moral principle—sense of justice—regard for duty—
feeling of moral accountability, incumbency, and obligor
tion—perception of the right and the wrong of feelings
and conduct.
The proposition that man is a moral and accountable
agent—that he is governed by moral laws, and is capable of
taking cognizance of the morality, or the right and the
wrong,of feelings anchconduct, and ofperforming actions and
exercising feelings which are virtuous and vicious, and, as
such, rewardable and punishable, is susceptible ofdemonstra­
tion by an appeal to the moral feelings of almost every in­
dividual ofthe human race. How often do men, when they
are conscious of having done wrong, feel guilty and con­
demned, and deserving of punishment ? This cannot be the
result of education, nor of circumstances, for, without a fac­
ulty for exercising this class offunctions, men could no more
' be taught to feel guilty than they could be taught to see
without eyes, or to breathe without lungs. And, since this
class of functions is entirely distinct from every other class.
Digitized by L.ooQle
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS* 125
is homogeneous in its character, and has for its end a very
important object, and, above all, since it is always found to
be manifested in proportion to the development of a given
portion of the brain, it follows, that it is performed by a dis­
tinct faculty of the mind, or by a mental power which is in­
nate, and which forms a constituent part ofthe human mind.
This being the case, it follows, that mans mind is consti­
tuted with a direct reference to certain abstract and first
principles of right and justice. This is rendered evident
from the fact, that every portion of the universe of God, is in
perfect harmony with, and also adapted to, every other por­
tion of it. Now, since the mind of man forms a part ofthis
universe, and is, therefore, in perfect harmony and consist­
ency with every other part of it, and since this same mind is
likewise moulded and constituted with direct reference to, and
proceeds upon, certain first principles of right and justice, it
follows, that the whole system of things, or the whole uni­
verse of God, is also constituted with direct reference to, and
proceeds upon, these same principles of right and justice
upon which the human mind proceeds, or, in other words,
that the universe is a moral universe—that God’s govern­
ment recognises the morality and the immorality of feelings
and conduct, and that its Governour rewards the one, and
punishes the other.
If there were no such thing as right and wrong, as virtue
and vice, as morality and immorality, why should the great
Author of nature tell us that some things are right, and
others wrong, by implaoting in our very nature this moral
tribunal of right and wrong, and thus knowingly and egre-
giously deceive us? If there exist no first principles of
right and wrong, why should the mind of man be so formed
as to receive any such impressions? or why should the hu­
man mind be adapted to that which does not exist?
Thus, by physical demonstration, and the language of
facts, we are inevitably brought to the conclusion, that God’s
government is a moral government—that, consequently, its
governour is a moral Governour, and that mankind are his
inoral subjects. These are great and fundamental princi­
ples of morality and of ethicks, and, farthermore, principles
which have never before been fully established, unless, in­
deed, it should be maintained that a revelation which is
known, comparatively, to only a few,andbelieved inbyfewer
Digitized by L.ooQle
126 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
still, has established it by assuming it, and making it a*
article of faith.
L a r g e .—One havingconscien. large,will have a clear and
an acute moral eye, and a ready perception of what is right
and what is wrong, both in himself and in others, and will
frequently, if not generally, direct his attention tothis quality
of actions and feelings; will consult duty rather than expe
diency, and pursue the course which he considers right,even
though it may be in opposition tohis interest; will endeavour
to be honest and faithful in the discharge of his supposed ob­
ligations ; will often feel guilty, and unworthy; be ready to
acknowledge his faults, and condemn himself for them; will
strive to lead a moral, virtuous, and upright life; and possess
a thankful, and grateful heart.
One having conscien. large, with firm, also large, will
manifest firmness upon all occasions, but be particularly de­
cided and determined in every case of duty, or justice, or
right; will take a firm stand upon the side of duty and
moral principle, and maintain it, even to extremity; and,with
combat, also large, will possess great moral courage, great
boldness to go forward in advocating and urging on the
cause of virtue or morality, and will also resolutely oppose
whatever he considers to be wrong or unjust; with large de-
struct. and self-e. added to this combination, will not only
quickly notice, but be inclined severely to censure, whatever
He considers wrong; and,with self-e. very large, will be cen­
sorious, and severe in his reflections upon others: with firm.,
caus., and compar. large, will regard the claims of duty and
justice as of primary importance, and discharge them at al­
most any hazard; can be induced only with the greatest dif­
ficulty, and bythe strongest temptations, knowingly and wil­
fully to violate them; will make strenuous efforts to restrain
his immoral, and excite his moral, feelings; though he may
sometimes be overcome by his still stronger faculties, and led
into sin by them, yet will generally maintain the ascendency,
and experience deep remorse and repentance when he issen­
sible of having swerved from the path of duty; and, unless
self-e. isvery large, will readily acknowledge his faults: with
adhes. and benev. large or very large, secret, only moderate,
and destruct. and combat, only full, will mildly, yet faithfully,
reprove his friends; tell them their faults in a plain and can­
día, yet in a mild and feeling, manner, so as to do them the
greatest amount of good, and yet injure their feelings as lit-
Digitized by boogie
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 127
tie as possible; closely watch over their moral conductj have
their good at heart, and, therefore, affectionately reprove
them; but, with combat., destruct., and self-e. large, will be
rather harsh and censorious in his manner of administering
reproof; and, with secret, moderate or small, will find fault
with others when they do not conform to his own standard of
duty; and, if firm, and self-e. are very large, and caus. and
benev. only full, will set up himself or his doctrines as the
only correct standard oftruth and rectitude; pronounce judg­
ment upon the character of others; be censorious and rigid
in his moral and religious views and practices, &c.: with be­
nev. large, and combat., caus., compar., hope, and self-e., at
least, full, will possess great moral courage; will never tem­
porize upon questions of duty, but will stand up boldly and
resolutely in defence of morality and truth; and, let conse­
quences be what they may, will never abandon them; and
never fly from persecution in the cause of virtue and benev­
olence, but will boldly meet and face all opposition; will not
fotsake his ground; will drive forward moral, and religious,
and benevolent enterprises with great energy; go all lengths,
and make any sacrifices, in defence of moral principle, and
in securing or maintaining what he considers right, chiefly
on account of the principle involved in the matter, even
though the thing itself may be unimportant; and, if compar.
and caus. are very large, will be admirably qualified to distin­
guish himself as a moral and religious leader; to fill stations
of responsibility and trust, where judgment and talents are
required to be combined with integrity and energy of mind
and character: with large or very large selfish propensities,
and only moderate or full firm, and reasoning organs, will
struggle hard against his “easily besetting sins,” yet beoften
overcome by them; will do many things of which he will
bitterly repent; will resolve on amendment, but again yield
to temptation ; and alternate between sinning and repenting:
with very large cautious., in everycasewhere he isnot certain
what his duty is, will be so fearful of doing wrong as often
not to act at all, and thus fail to do right; will frequently
tremble for fear of apprehended punishment; and, with large
or very large ven. in addition, will have high ideas of the
majesty, and holiness, and justice of the Deity ; be filled with
dread and awe while contemplating his character and works;
have great fear of incurring his displeasure, and 01 being
visited with his judgment; and, with hope moderate or small,
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
128 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
little expectation of pardon, or, at least, many “doubts and
fears” concerning his salvation and future condition ; be given
to religious melancholy; and have but feeble faith; but, with
hope large, will look upon his Maker, not only as a sin-pw/i-
ishing, but also as a sinforgiving Godj generally have
strong Christian faith, and be solaced by hopes of pardon
through a Redeemer, yet experience occasional doubts: with
philopro. large, will love his children, yet their moral char­
acter and conduct will be the chiefobjects of his regard and
anxiety; and, if benev. is large, and destruct. full, will
faithfully reprove, if not chastise, them for their faults: with
large caus. and compar.,will firstinvestigatesubjectswithref­
erence to their moral character and bearings; will take great
delight in tracing out the connexion between moral causes
and their effects—in reasoning upon the relations ofmanto his
Maker, of man to his fellow-man, and of man in all his rela­
tions as a moral and accountable being, &c.; in investigating
the attributes and the character of the Deity, especially as ex­
hibited in his works; in inquiring into the moral relations of
things, &c.; and will appreciate the full force of moral infer­
ences : with compar. and caus. very large, will be a profound
and acute theologian, and with large concent., will take orig­
inal views of subjects, and be unable to leave any subject of
moral inquiry or research until he has run itout in all its bear­
ings ; will be exceedingly interested in moral philosophy, in
metaphysical and theological studies, &c.: with large or very
large combat., compar., and caus., will delight in discussing
religious and moral questions, &c.: with large self-e., and
very large firm., will reluctantly open his eyes upon his
faults, yet will then freely acknowledge them, and endeavour
to reform: with only full secret, and acquis., and large firm.,
self-e., benev., and caus., and a large and active brain, will
never be guilty of either a mean, or a dishonest action; will
be just, obliging, and faithful to his word, and possess true
moral worth in a high degree; and, with only full combat,
and destruct., will be amiable: with approbat. very large,
will experience a morbid sensibility toshame, and, with large
ven., and only moderate self-e., will often suffer intolerably
from mingled feelings of guilt, unworthiness, and shame, and
be unable to look his fellow men in the face: with large or
very large benev. and adhe3., and only full selfe., will be
very grateful for favours received, and glad of an oppor­
tunity to return them; will feel strong attachment towards
Digitized by L.ooQle
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 129
his benefactors, and think of them only with lively emotions
of gratitude and love; will be thankful to those who will
point out his faults to him; be forgiving in his disposition,
especially when forgiveness is asked; sincerely repent of
his sins, bothof omission and of commission, weep over them,
and strive against committing more sin, &c.
The functions of the other faculties are often mistaken for
those of conscien., yet a close analysis will point out a radi­
cal difference between them; and, since those who have the
least conscien., are the least sensible of their deficiency, and,
also, of the functions ascribed to it, they will be likely to give
themselves credit for much more conscien. than they actually
possess.
Very large.—One having conscien. very large, will
make morality and duty the pole-star of his life, and the
only guide of his conduct; will not, for the world, knowing­
ly do wrong or injure another; will make almost any sacri­
fice sooner than incur guilt; is tormented with the mere sus­
picion, of having done wrong or injured another; frequently
experiences the feeling of remorse for things that are even
right; bitterly repents and loathes himself when he is appre­
hensive that duty has been violated or neglected, and feels
miserable until he is sure that all is right again ; is even
scrupulously and unnecessarily exact in all his dealings;
is constantly tormented and harassed by the goadings of a
guilty conscience; and, when he has failed to fulfil any prom­
ises, feels condemned and unhappy, even though to have ful­
filled them was impossible.
One having conscien. very large, with benev. and ven.
large or very large, will experience the liveliest emotions of
gratitude to his bountiful Creator for favours received, and,
with adhes. large, to his fellow-men for acts of kindness,
and feel strong attachment to his benefactors: with approbat.,
acquis., &c., only full, will Sacrifice ease, property, happiness,
and friendship, if not every thing else, sooner than violate
his conscience : with large combat., will do what he consid­
ers right, regardless of consequences; will be as bold and as
fearless as a lion in every case ofduty, and in defending any
moral principle; and will make every thing in which he is
concerned, bend to his ideas of duty, and to those moral
principles by which he himself is governed: with moderate
or small self-e., shrinks from publick responsibility: with
ven. and cautious, very large, and hope and self-e. very small^
6*
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
contemplates the character cf the Deity with the most pro
fbund awe, mingled with dread and terrour, and himself as
sinful and unworthy in the extreme; will tremble in viewof
the punishment hebelievestoawait him;havefew and feeble
hopes of pardon, and be driven to actualdespair and religious
melancholy or mania, &c.
The combinations under conscien. large, modified by an
increase of the influence ofconscien., will apply to conscien.
very large. It might also be added, that words cannot do
full justice to the character of this faculty, or to its influence
upon the moral conduct and feelings of its possessor.
F u l l .—One having conscien. full, will desire and en­
deavour to do right, and feel condemned when convinced of
Having done wrong; will recognise the claims of duty; feel
his moral obligations, both to God and man; and, unless his
temptations, or, in other words, the solicitations of his strong­
er faculties, overcome the remonstrances ofconscien., will be
honest and faithful, and live a virtuous, moral life, yet his
conscien. will have a great deal to struggle with, ana some­
times lose the ascendency.
The manifestations of conscien. full, are governed by the
following general principle, namely, that one having con­
scien. full, with such au organization as would be favourable
towirtue and morality, or with the selfish faculties under the
control of the moral and reasoning^faculties, especially if
fdaced in circumstances calculated to promote virtue, will be
ikely to possessa high standard ofvirtue, and of moral feeling
and principle; but, with the selfish faculties generally larger
than conscien. and the other moral and the reasoning faculties,
especially if placed in circumstances calculated to urge him
into excesses, or to create defects, will possess conscien. too
feeble to turn the current of his stronger passions into a vir­
tuous channel, or to supply his defects. Thus, one having
conscien. full, with large combat., and only moderate secret.,
wfill be subject to ebullitions of passion, yet, as soon as the
excitement ofcombat, has subsided, conscien. willcreate pun­
gent remorse and contrition:with large combat, anddestruct.,
aiid only moderate acquis., may be often led into sin by his
aiiger, yet will be perfectly honest in all his pecuniary trans­
actions: #itli large or Yerylarge acquis., adhes., arid secret,*
and only full caus. and self-e., may frequently take the ad*
vantage ofstrangers, and be even dishonest in his pecuniary
tfahsactions with mere acquaintances, yet will never wrong
IBO1 PHRBKOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 131
a frien d, and will be likely to be honest in all his transac­
tions where love of gain does not entice him astray: with
only moderate acquis., and large or very large destruct.,
combat., approbat., and secret., may defame his rivals with­
out a strict regard to truth, yet possess a moral character un­
exceptionable in other respects, &c. Accordingly, we find
many persons to be perfectly moral in their general charac­
ter, yet addicted to some grossly immoral, ifnot even vicious,
propensity—some “easily besetting sin:” and this one fault
is too often allowed to throw into the shade all their virtuous
qualities.
The combinations and descriptions under conscien. large*
modified by a diminution of the influence of conscien., will
apply to conscien. full.
Moderate.—One having conscien. moderate, will expe­
rience fewer and feeblercompunctions ofconscience, and jus­
tify himself more than one with larger conscien.; will con­
sider the moral qualities ofactions far less than he will their
effects upon himself: will frequently indulge his other facul­
ties to excess, and, also, fail to do his duty, and will not be
very particular to govern his feelings and his conduct by
any fixed standard of moral principle ; will consult expedi­
ency rather than duty ; and be less sensible of his faults, less
open to conviction, less clear in his discernment between
right and wrong, less correct in his reasoning upon religious
subjects, the character of God, and the moral relations of
' man to man, and of man to his Maker, and will appreciate
moralinferences less, than one with larger conscien.
One having conscien. moderate, with very large self-e.,
and large selfish organs generally, will be likely to make
such demands upon others as his interest may dictate, without
sufficient regard to what really belongs to him; and will not
experience lively emotions of gratitude for favours received,
because the feeling will be implanted in his mind that others
are under a kind of obligation todo whatever he may choose
to require ofthem :with large or very large self-e.,adhes., and
benev., and only moderate secret., may be perfectly honest
and unexceptionable in his moral conduct, yet will beso from
feelings ofkindness or friendship, or because it will be mean
and degrading todowrong ; will govern his conduct by prin­
ciples ofnobleness,and dothe honourable and the m anly thing,
yet will seldom feel gu ilty, or do right from conscientious
scruples : with large or very large approbat, will do right
Digitized by t j O O Q l e
132 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
when to do wrong, would injure his refutation, or tarnish
his honour,yet, will do that which is wrong, and which large
conscien. would forbid, when such things are generally
approved; and do what is popular, without thinking or ca­
ring whether it is right or not: with very large adhes., and
benev., may be very kind, very affectionate, very willing to
do favours, &c.j feel a great deal of sympathy for distress,
and show much tenderness of feeling, which are liable to be
mistaken for conscien., yet these feelings will not be ac
companied with a deep sense of duty,of obligation,ofg ra ti­
tude, of moral principle, &c.: with large or very large
ven. and a religious education, may be devout, religiously
inclined, and, with cautious, large, fear to offend his Maher,
and, with the selfish faculties only full, may live a blame*
less, Christian life, yet will lack those nice moral qualities
imparted by conscien.; but, with small marvel., and with­
out a strict, religious education, will be likely to be irreli­
gious, if not skeptical: with large or very large secret and
approbat., will be likely to do wrong in secret, and when
there is little risk ofdetection; and, with only moderateself-e,
will be deceitful, if not hypocritical, yet, with ven. large,
may even profess religion, but will be a Pharisee: with large
or very laTge reasoning organs, may govern hi3conduct by
the dictates of reason, feel the full force of philosophical con­
clusions, and reason clearly and forcibly upon all subjects
disconnected with morality and duty, yet will not appreciate
the force of moral truths, &c.
Small—One having conscien. small, will have but lit- *
tie ideaof rightand wrong in theabstract; even when guilty,
will be comparatively a stranger to the feelings of peni­
tence, and to the compunctions of conscience; will have but
little regard for moral principle, and little concern whether
his character conforms to its requisitions or not; or care
whether he is moral or immoral as such; will have few con*
scientious scruples, and, perhaps, ridicule those who have^
will lack that regard for pure justice, that desire to do
right, and that tenderness of conscience, which this faculty
alone can impart, and be nearly destitute of moral acumen
and discrimination. , t
The combinations under conscien. moderate, modified fey
a reduction of the influence of conscien., will apply to con*
ecien. small. Other combinations, deduced from the princi­
ples there illustrated, may be added by the reader. t ¿r
Digitized by L.ooQle
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 133
V e r y small.—One having conscien. very small, will
neither know nor feel the differencebetween right and wrong
in themselves, nor have any moral discernment; will have
no conscientious scruples; deny the doctrine of rewards and
punishments, and the whole system of moral accountability;
be a stranger to the feelings of responsibility and repentance;
and, being unrestrained by the influence of conscien., do just
what his other faculties dictate.
The faculty ofconscien. does not decide as towhat is right
or wrong, nor create that moral standard or tribunal by
which the feelings and the conduct are tried, but merely ar­
raigns them before such a tribunal as may have been settled
by the combined influence of the other faculties, of educa­
tion, of circumstances, &c. Suppose, for example, that two
individuals, A. and B. possessed an equal share of conscien.,
while A. possessed very large acquis., and B. only small ac­
quis. Let both be placed in given circumstances, and the
conscien. of A. will allow him to take an unjustifiable
amount of money, and even to demand it; while the same
degree of conscien. in B., would not allow him to take the
same amount, even in case it should be offered to him ; yet,
should A. possess a large endowment of ven., and B. but
small ven., although the conscien. of A., might allow him
to take more money than belonged to him, this same con­
scien. might even compel him, out of a sense of duty, to attend
upon certain religious observances, go to meeting, &c., more
strictly than the same amount ofconscien. would require of B.
If the reasoning organs of B. were much larger than those of
A., his views of right and wrong would be much more cor­
rect and reasonable than those of A. The conscien. of the
Indian doubtless urges him on even to commit deeds of cru­
elty and vengeance upon that race which, he conceives, has
wronged him. The conscience of the Catholick might re­
quire him always to attend mass, and torment him for tasting
meat on certain days, or for visiting a Protestant place of wor­
ship., while that of a Protestant, might condemn a visit to a
Catholick church as a heinous sin.
This illustration will furnish a perfect and most beautiful
solution ofthe otherwise inexplicable phenomena, that the di­
versity ofopinion as to what is right and what is wrong, and
as towhat constitutes the test and standard ofvirtue and ofvice,
is well nigh infinite, or, at least, receives a different modifica­
tion from almost every individual—that some approve as virt-
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
134 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
uoüs,what others condemn as wicked, and what others still,
regard as neither—that almost every vice has been considered
a virtue, and practised as such, and many forms ofvirtue con­
demned as sinful—that a very conscientious man may be a
very wicked man, and be even made the more wicked by his
perverted or “seared” conscience, and that a man with but
feeble conscien., may be comparatively virtuous, &c.
The decisions of conscien. alone, then, form no criterion
as to what is right or wrong; yet, in conjunction with the
full development and unperverted exercise of all the other
faculties, it constitutes a great moralform ula by which every
feeling ofthe heart, and every action in life, may be tried,
and its moral character determined. So that phrenology, in
fact, teaches us, “ what most we need to know,” w h a t is
r ig h t a n d w h a t is w r o n g . By a reference to a subse­
quent chapter, the reader will see this point fully illustrated
and applied.
The diversity of opinion just alluded to, as to what is con­
sidered right and what wrong, doesnot, in the least,affect any
of the arguments under this head, because they are predicated
merely upon the existence of some standard of right—upon
some code of morality, which standard and code actually ex­
ist, though modified in their application.
The influence ofconscien. upon the conduct and the char­
acter, is so great and so peculiar, as, in a measure, to baffle
description. A person with little conscien., may be as honest
a man, as kind a neighbour, as warm a friend, as trusty and as
honourable in his dealings, &c., as another is who has large
conscien., but from very different motives; yet a deficiencyof
conscien. constitutes a palpable and a radical defectofcharac­
ter, a defect which is more observable in a want ofmoral feel­
ing, and in a comparative destitution of moral principle, than
in the mere conduct and dealings of the individual.
The larger this organ, the more guilty will the individual
feel. The reason of this is, that large or very large con­
scien. being always awake, arraigns all the actions, and
feelings, and motives before this moral tribunal, and brings
them to a much more heart-searching trial, and thus creates
a much greater sense of guilt and sinfulness than would be
done by weaker conscien., even though the conduct, feelings*
and motives, fromwhich this feelingofguilt is derived, should,,i
in both cases, be alike. , ijeij
This faculty, then, while it actually prevents the truly con«
Digitized by b o o g i e
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 135
scientious man from committing as much sin as he would
probably commit with but feeble conscien., makes him feel
the more guilty, and allows those who have but little con­
scien., and are therefore the less restrained from commit­
ting sin, to live on, comparatively insensible to their faults,
dead to the reproach of a guilty conscience, and justified in
their own eyes.
This fact refutes the doctrine that the goadings of a guilty
conscience in this life, constitute the only punishment for
sin: for it is a plain dictate of reason and ofconscience, that
*the punishment of sin must always be proportionate to the in­
iquity committed. Yet we here see that the punishment in­
flictedbyconscien., islightestuponthosewhosinthemost,and
most severe upon those who are least deserving of it,and that
it is often inflicted when the actions punished are even virtu­
ous. (See conscien. very large.) Conscien. has been shown
to be merely thejudge of sinfulness, and not its executioner.
Now, by proving that the principle of accountability,
which necessarily implies accompanying rewards and pun­
ishments, enters intothe verynatureand constitution ofman—
that men are punishable for their sins, and punishable in
proportion to their guilt,—and, that conscien. inflicts the
lightest punishment upon those who are the most guilty, phre­
nology proves that there is some other punishment for sin
than the goadings of a guilty conscience, which, taken in
conjunction with the fact, that those who sin most, oftensuffer
least in other respects, and that the righteous are often se­
verely afflicted in this life, brings us to the inevitable conclu­
sion, that these rewards and punishments, which must be in­
flicted somewhere, are reserved for administration in another
state ofexistence.
Not that rewards and punishments, as such, are not ad­
ministered in this life; for we know, indeed, that obedience
to the laws of our corporeal organization, produces health,
and with it, a great degree of happiness, and that the viola­
tion of these laws, produces severe punishment, examples
of which are to be found in those pains caused by cut­
ting, bruising, burning, poisoning, or otherwise injuring our
bodies; but that the present state is not the o n l y state of
retribution. And since the administration of rewards and
punishments in the present state of existence, is not only not
incompatible with the benevolence and the government of
the Deity,but is even demanded by both, why should not the*
Digitized by Google
136 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
same administration of rewards and punishments in another
state ofexistence, not onlynot be incompatible with the same
character and government of the same unchangeable Being, T
but be even demanded in another world, in like manner as
it is in this? All sectarian prejudices aside, are not these.
fair inferences from phrenological principles %
In children and infem ales,this organ is generally found to*
bemuch larger (asthe facultyismuch stronger) thanin males.
Indeed, inchildren below ten years ofage, it is almost invari­
ably large or very large, while in men, especially in some
sections ofour country, the deficiency isquite comrhon. We
may hence conclude, that it constitutes a leading feature of
the human character, and that its deficiency is mainly owing
to a want of culture. A deficiency ofconscien., then, implies
a.neglect of its cultivation; and this want of cultivation im­
plies the guilt consequent upon burying so important a talent
in the earth.
Location.—Conscien. is located upon the two sides of
the posteriour portion of firm. Its protuberances are at right
angles with those of firm., and parallel to those of hope. Its
development can generally be determined without difficulty,
yet, as hope is located by its side, it is sometimes difficult
to determine with certainty to which a given protuberance
belongs. ,
16. HOPE.
Expectation—anticipation— tendency of mind to contem-
plate the future with bright expectations of happiness and
success.
This faculty expects to obtain and enjoy what the other
faculties desire. This it does without basing this expectation*
upon anyother grounds than the mere impression that things
will happen as the individual desires that they should hap­
pen. By promising the continuance, and even the increase,
of present enjoyments, by diminishing the quantity and the
bitterness of present sufferings, and by predicting that the
burden will be lightened, or that sorrows will be turned
into joys, it adds greatly to the sweetness and the fullness of
the cup of human happiness; and by representing things
*as much more desirable, and more easily obtained, than
they really are, it contributes greatly to enterprise and ef­
fort How many thingsdo the fair promises ofhope induce
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
HOPE. 137
us to undertake, and firmness, to carry through, when, with­
out hope, the undertaking would be scouted, and, without
firmness, abandoned.
T his faculty not only embraces within its range, the present
state of existence, but, leaping the dark chasm of death, it
revels in the prospect of bliss beyond the shores of time, as
those in whom it is large, generally believe in a future state
of existence.
Its function is, expectation in general— a vivid and intense
glow of delight in the mere anticipation of future happiness
and success: and the beauty of its manifestation is, that the
individual places almost as muchconfidencein thepromises and
allurements of this faculty, as he does in the conclusions of
reason or experience.
Large.—One having hope large, will contemplate the
future with high expectations of happiness, and dwell upon
his projects and his prospects with sanguine anticipations of
success; will magnify advantages, and dimmish obstacles;
will dwell upon the fairer side of prospects, and take only a
slight glance at discouraging circumstances; will be likely
to promise him self and others much more than is reasonable;
will be cheerful, lively, and sanguine; will feast upon the prom­
ises of hope; will overlook past and present disappointments
and troubles, in the brighter visions of the future; and, though
subject to frequent discouragements, will still indulge his
hope, forgetting the past, and pressing onward to the future.
One having hope large, with only full cautious., will hope
much more than fear, yet, with caus. large, will seldom al­
low his hopes to hurry him into imprudent measures; but,
with the addition of large or very large combat., firm., selfe.,
and ideal., will seem to be imprudent, especially when in
pursuit of some most desirable object, yet his forethought
and judgment will not only guard against misfortune, but
secure success, even though he will seem to be very impru­
dent, and wrhen hope is excited, even hazardous: with only
moderate caus. and cautious., may sometimes attempt impos­
sibilities, and, with only full caus. and cautious., improbabili­
ties : with very large cautious., will never expose himself
to any of those dangers or losses which can be fore seen or
provided against, even though he might thereby gain the
m ore; will keep upon the safe side of things, and risk but
little, yet will anticipate and attempt considerable: with firm,
and self-e. large or very large, will rise above trouble and
Digitized by L . o o Q [ e
138 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
adversity, confidently expecting that the scale will soon turn
in his favour; will lay many new plans; form many new pro­
jects ;and be prone totry experiments; yet, if concent, is small,
will frequently change or vary them : with sdf-e. large or
very large, and only full caus., will feel himself capable of
attempting and effecting great things; think that he can suc­
ceed much better than others; and thus often attempt what
he cannot accomplish; yet will not learn, even by repeated
disappointments, that he can do no more than others; but,
with very large caus. and corapar., and large intellectual or­
gans generally, will hope for great things, yet hope within
the bounds of reason; like De Witt Clinton, will be capable
of projecting some stupendous work, and, also, of devising
the means for accomplishing it; and will seldom or never
fail in his projects, &c.
V e r y l a r g e .—One having hopevery large,will literally
revel in the bright anticipations of those enjoyments which
he fancies are before him; and view the future with so high
expectations as to be dissatisfied with the present, be it ever
so satisfactory; will always live in the future, and long for
its arrival; and thus often misimprove the present.
One having hope very large, with cautious, and caus. only
full, will be always in chase of some new and desirable
object in prospect; will have too many irons in the fire at
once; attempt too much, and things which are even chi­
merical; will look upon even difficult attainments as very
easy; be subject tofrequent disappointments, yet neither disap­
pointments nor misfortunes will damp the ardour of his hope;
will be always upon tiptoe of expectation—always sanguine,
cheerful, and lively, and, with large mirth., merry ; be con­
stantly building castles in the air; and hazardous in his un­
dertakings: with large self-e., will think himselfadequate to
almost any undertaking: with large or very large benev., will
promise much morethan he canfulfil,yet, with largeconscicn.,
and only moderatesecret, will make his promises withthe best
intentions, and feel sorry that he cannot fulfil them: with
very large cautious., will be tantalized with hopes and fears,
and have the highest anticipations, accompanied with suffi­
cient solicitude to cause him to proceed with great care and
deliberation, yet, with large combat., will combine discretion
with energy: with only moderate acquis., and only full cau­
tious., will live on, enjoying the present, and think that the
future will take ample care of itself; and that p]ans will
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
HOPS. 139
succeed to his utmost desire, even with very little effort, so
that he will be predisposed to a life ofease, and idleness, and
pleasure ; and, with very large ideal.,amat.,and adhes. added
to this combination, will be disposed to revelry and profit
gacy, and will be a spendthrift.
The combinations under hope large, modified bv an in­
crease of the influence of hope, will be found applicable to
hope very large. In this Case, as in many other similar
ones, the reader is requested to exercise his own organ of
comparison.
F ull.—One having hope full, will be reasonable in his
expectations, and yet be spurred on bythem toattempt import­
ant undertakings ; will be cheerful, yet seldom elated with
hope, &c. One having hopefull, with large or very largecau­
tious., will forebode more evil than good, and endure pre­
sent troubles well, yet live in dread of apprehended misfor­
tunes; but,with the addition of large or very large caus. and
cbmpar.,will bepre-eminently judicious; calculate with accu­
racy] realize about what he expects ; seldom be led astray
by favourable prospects; rely more upon the dictates of rear
ionthan the promises of hope; and, in the long run, succeed
far beyond his expectations, and accomplish more than most
others : with large or very large acquis., may make great
calculations upon amassing wealth, because his love of riches
will be so great; and so of the other faculties that are large.
The additional manifestations of hope full, will be inter­
mediate between hope large, and hopè moderate, and the op­
posite of hope small. See combinations under hope large,
modified by a diminution of hope.
M o d e r a t e .—One having hope moderate, will expect too
little rather than too much ; make few promises, either to
himself or to others ; will not be sanguine, nor have a high
flow of animal spirits, &c. One having hope moderate,
with large or very large cautious., will anticipate the worst
rather than the best; fear much more than hope; generally
realizemore than hecalculatesupon ;dwell more upon thedis­
couraging featuresofthe case,thanupon itsencouraging pros­
pects: with large or very large conscien., ven., and cautious.,
if a professing Christian, will have many doubts and fears
as to his future condition, and lack Christian faith: with the
ÎpropensHies only moderate, will not be likely unaided, to un­
dertake and prosecute with vigour, every important pro­
ject, yet, with large firm., may hold on and persevere when
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
he is once finally embarked, and is fully committed: with
large or very large caus. and compar., may be sure of ob­
taining his ends, but will be so because he sees by what
means they are to be brought about, &c.
Small.—One having hope small, in addition to the man­
ifestations described under hope moderate, will be hardly
capable of having his hopes raised bythe brightestprospects,
and take little delight in contemplating the future: with
large or very large cautious., and only moderateor full com­
bat. and self-e., will be easily discouraged; generally fancy
that he sees some lion in the way; dwell chiefly upon the
darker shades of the picture; brood over misfortune; borrow
a great deal of trouble, even in prosperity; fear to undertake
or risk much, lest he should fail; lack enterprise, and elas­
ticity and buoyancy of spirits; indulge, and even delight to
indulge, melancholy feelings, &c.: with only moderate mirth.,
and large ven. and conscien., will be sober, sedate, and often
cast down, if not ascetick: with large or very large combat,
firm., self-e., and cau3., may manifest a high degree of sta
bility and energy of character when once fully embarked in
an undertaking; yet, unless actually obliged to undertake
important operations, will shrink fromthem: with very large
cautious., conscien., and ven., and only full self-e., will look
upon the Deity with the strongest impressions of his justice,
and holiness, and majesty, and be in great fear of offend­
ing him, accompanied with little hope of the pardon of his
sins, and with the most pungent feelings of remorse, and the
most dismal forebodings, and fearful apprehensions, of future
punishment, if not with actual despair. Thus we perceive,
that they who have the most to fear in this matter, actually
fear the least, and that they who have the least to fear, fear
the most. The additional manifestations and combinations of
hope small, will be found under hope moderate, and others
may beascertainedby reversing the descriptionof hope large.
Very small.—When this organ is very small, itsfunc­
tionsaretoo weakand toofeebletohavevery perceptible influ-
ence upon the character, or to be experienced by the subject
The objects upon which hope fastens, will be determined
by its combinations. One having full, large, or very large
hope, forexample, with small acquis., and large or very large
philopro.,will indulge the highest expectationsconcerning his
children, yet exerciseverylittle about propertyas such: with
large approbate and only moderateor small religious organs,
140 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by Google
marvellousness. 141
will hope for distinction and fame; yet his hopes will becon­
fined chiefly to this life, and he will be skeptical concerning
another state ofexistence, &c. Thus it is,that hope acts with
the greatest vigour upon those things which are the objects
ofthe desires ofthe other faculties. Hence,someindividuals
are very sanguine about some things, while their hopes flag
in relation to other things.
Location.—Hope is located upon the two sides of the
anteriour portion of firm., in front of conscien., and behind
marvel., being elongated in the direction of the ears.
' 17. MARVELLOUSNESS.
Wonder—credulity—disposition to believe what is not
proved, or what are considered supernatural manifestations,
dpc.— to regard with wonder and astonishment that which is
somewhat strange or singular.
There are things, the evidence of which the human mind
is incapable of grasping, and which must therefore be taken
upotr trust, or, what is the same thing, which must be the ob­
jects of credulity. Hence the necessity of some faculty,
through the door of which such truths as are beyond the
Teach of reason or of observation, can be admitted to the
mind.
It cannot be denied, that there exists a tendency in the hu­
man mind to viewthings, as it were, through the medium of
extravagance and wonder; to magnify uncommon phenome­
na, or to regard them as supernatural; to believe the mere
declarations of others, even though they may be strangers,
&c. This tendency of mind is more apparent in chil­
dren than in adults. They listen with delightful astonish­
ment to tales of wonder, and implicitly believe what is told
them, even after they have been repeatedly deceived. With­
out this faculty, they couldbe instructed no farther than their
extremely limited observation, or their still feebler reasoning
faculties, could demonstrate the truths presented to their
minds.
It is by no means certain that this faculty is not adapted,
among other things, to a belief in those portions of Revela­
tion which are attributed to a supernatural agency, and that
it is calculated to increase religious zeal and fervour. At
least, it prepares the mind for a reception of some of those
doctrines taught in the Bible, which reaspu.does not teach,
Digitized by LooQle
142 PHRRHOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
because it cannot comprehend, and which can be believed
only “by faith.” By creating- a love of the wonderful and
the novel, marvel, is calculated to lead the way to many
valuable improvements. r * '
L a r g e .—U)ne having large marvel., with large ven., will
readily believe in special providences, the interposition of di­
vine agency, &c., and regard many things as providential
which can be readily accounted for upon other principles:
with full or large ideal., will gaze with surprise upon mag­
nificent objects, and possess a wondering frame of mind:
with large event and ideal., will be passionately fond of
hearing or perusing marvellous accounts, hair-breadth
escapes, and such mysterious relations as are contained in
Sir Walter Scott’s writings, and in works of fiction gene­
rally, and be liable to be greatly injured bythis kind of read­
ing: with large or very large ven. and conscien., will be
naturally inclined to believe in supernatural manifestations,,
in dreams, signs, lucky and unlucky days, &c.; place impli­
cit confidence in every part of Revelation,and in what is told
him by his religious teachers; will contemplate the charac­
ter and the works of the Creator with mingled emotions of
awe and astonishment; be zealous and enthusiastick in his
religious belief and practice, if he is not bordering upon re­
ligious enthusiasm and extravagance; and, with the addition
of large cautious., will be afraid of ghosts, of staying in
houses said to be haunted, &c.; may even fancy that he has
seen supernatural appearances, and, with only moderate se­
cret. added, can be easily hoaxed and imposedupon by stories
about witchcraft, &c.: with large or very large approbat,
lang., event., and imitat, will be even enthusiastick in re­
lating wonderful anecdotes concerning himself and his rela­
tives; in narrating hair-breadth escapes, astonishing feats of
dexterity, &c., &c.; andwill describe even common occurren­
ces asveryextraordinary: with large or very large conscien.
and benev., and only moderate secret, will place perfect con­
fidence in what is told him, even though it be extravagant;
pin his faith upon the sleeve of others; seldom doubt the
word of others; and take things for granted without exam­
ining them for himself: with large or very large conscien.,
ideal., compar., and ven., will be likely to iancy that he dis­
covers a striking resemblance between the prophecies of
Scripture and particular events, and also between spiritual
and temporal taings; will imagine that he sees the special
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
MARVKLLOUSNB80. 143
hand of divine Providence in almost every event of bis life;
believe that God often manifests his will in a miraculous
manner; be likely to experience what seems to him a re­
markable, religious conversion, attended with many subse­
quent religious impressions which are extraordinary; and will
have wonderful and ecstatick views of the character and the
works of the Deity, &c.; and, with large caus. added to this
combination, like Swedenburgh, will adduce wonderful theo­
ries to account for curious natural phenomena, and reason in a
very extravagant manner: with large or very large cautious,
and individ., will be likely to experience optical illusions,
fancying that he sees gho3ts, spectres, hideous shapes, Ac.,
when the appearance may be caused by an indistinct vision
of some natural object: with large or very large hope, ideal.,
imitat, lang., event., and compar., will delight and excel in
relating marvellous stories, wonderful tales, “ fish-stories,”
Ac., which he will generally augment, and always adapt to
the occasion.
Very l a r g e .—Onehaving very large marvel., with only
moderate secret., will take for granted whatever is told him,
however inconsistent it may be; seem greatly astonished at
almost every thing which is a little uncommon, as though
something mysterioushad happened; will religiously believe
in supernatural agents and interpositions, the doctrine of
ghosts, witchcraft, and in signs, the fulfilment ofdreams, Ac.
Additional descriptions and combinations of very large mar­
vel., will be founa under large marvel., especially when they
havebeen modified byan increase of the influence of marvel.
In Sir Walter Scott, this organ was large, accompanied
with a very large and an active brain, very large imitat., lang.,
compar., and local., and large or very large intellectual, mo­
ral, and domestick organs generally, which gave him those
unequalled powers of conception and description which he
possessed, and thus furnishes an additional proofof the truth
of phrenology, whilst his writings afford oneof thevery best
illustrations of such a combination of faculties anywhere to
be found.
v F ull.—One havingfu ll marvel., will have a mind open
to conviction, and possess sufficient credulity in what is pre­
sented to his mind, to give it an examination, yet cannot be
Satisfied without considerable proof; will require a good de­
gree of evidence in order ¿9 produce entire conviction, yet
'will rest satisfied with less evidence, both m degree and
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
,144 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
amount, than he would if possessed of smaller.marvel., and
will not so thoroughly canvass the evidence presented to his
mind: with only full caus., will frequently advance insuffi
cient reasons for his belief and believe without fully under­
standing the grounds of his belief: with the religious organs
generally full, large, or very large, may possessmuch relig­
ious faith, and unhesitatingly believe in the truth of Reve­
lation, in special, divine providences, &c., and also be quite
zealous as a Christian: with large or very large caus. and
compar., on the first presentation of a subject, may believe
upon insufficientdata, yet will afterwards more closely exam­
ine why and wherefore he believes as he does, investigate the
proof upon which his belief isfounded, and rejectthatwhieh
will not stand the test of close investigation: with large or
very large ideal., will feast his fancy, and revel in such fairy
tales as the Arabian Nights’ Entertainments, in the novels
of Sir Walter Scott, and in fictitious works generally; find it
difficult to divest himself of a partial belief in them, and be
liable tobe injured, not only by perusing works ofthis class,
but, also, in the reveilings of his own fancy.
The descriptions and combinations under large marveL.
with a reduction of the influence of marvel., will apply to
full marvel.,as will also those under moderate marvel, when
they are reversed.
M o d e r a t e .—One having moderate marvel., cannot yield
a full assent to things which are a little extraordinary or un­
accountable, unless they are supported by evidence which is
quite satisfactory, both in kind and amount, and will have
many doubts as to the truth of what he hears. One having
moderate marvel., with large or very large caus. and com*
par., will be hard to be convinced of the truth of that for
which a satisfactory reason, or full explanation, cannot be
rendered; can be readily convinced by appeals made to his
understanding; and, with only moderate perceptive facul­
ties, may even question the evidence of his own senses, or,
at least, attempt to account for uncommon phenomena upon
such principles as are already admitted; and, with the addi­
tion oflarge or very large firm, and self-e., can be convinced
only with extreme difficulty; will, in a measure, close the
doors of his mind against the admission of new facts or
truths, and, with only moderate ven. added to this combina­
tion, will not be likely to belieye in the authority of great
names, nor admit the correctness of opinions or customs
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
MARVBLLOUflNESS. 145
upon the ground that they have been long established; nor
make “ ipse dixits” a part of his creed: with large or very
large conscien., ven., and hope, may believe in the exist3nce
of a God, in the forewarnings, and interposition, and guidance
of a special, divine providence, in a future state of existence,
in Revelation, and the doctrines of Christianity, because his
moral feelings will harmonize with these views; and, with
the addition of large or very large compar. and caus., may
believe in the doctrines of Christianity, because they seem
consistent and reasonable, yet not because he has been told
that the one or the other doctrine is true; upon religious
subjects, will have views of his own, and think for himself;
in common matters, which are disconnected with religion,
will believe no farther than can be consistently explained, but
may believe in the doctrines taught by religion, as articles of
faith merely : but, with only moderate conscien. and ven., will
no sooner believe the doctrines of religion, farther than he can
see them proved, than he will any other doctrines; be natu­
rally skeptical, if not infidel, as to his religious creed; trou­
ble himself little about matters of this kind; and consider zea-
in religion as fanaticism, & c.: with only moderate secret., and
large or very large adhes , benev., and conscien., will implicit­
ly believe what is told him by a tried friend, and place quite
too much confidence in the integrity and honesty of his fel­
low men, yet not believe reports of common fame, nor those
new doctrines or statements which seem to him improbable;
will put no confidence in signs, dreams, or supernatural ap­
pearances, and will even ridicule those who d o; thus seeming
to himself, anil to others, as both credulous and ^credulous:
with large or very large ideal., individ., and event., may be
extremely fond of reading works of fiction, yet will not be­
lieve them, &c.
Small.— One having small marvel., w ill reject as untrue,
whatever things are presented to Ins mind unsupported by
demonstration, or, at least, by an abundance of the strongest
kind of proof; will be very incredulous in regard to almost
every thing new or uncommon; and will receive facts and
truths into his mind chiefly through the door of his other
faculties. One having small marvel., with large or very
large caus., must know upon what principles of reason, or
of cause and effect, those things are to be explained, of the
truth of which he is to be convinced; will scrutinize closely
every point of the argument, and be convinced onlv by an
' 7
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
146 FHRB1VÓLOOY ILLUSTHATED.
overwhelming mass of evidence ; and even then, for a long
time, his mind will refuse its full assent : with large or very
large individ., will wish to possess some tangible evidence
upon which to rest his belief; and, with the perceptive facul­
ties strong, to see before he can believe : with large or very
large self-e., and moral and reasoning organs, if religiously
educated, may, perhaps, believe in Revelation, and the funda­
mental doctrines of Christianity, yet will often have his
doubts as to the truth of these matters ; w ill have religious
views peculiar to himself; put no more confidence in what
he is taught by religious instructers, than he dees in what
he is taught by other men ; and have a religious creed of his
own, especially in its details: with only moderate or small
conscien. and ven., will have no door to his mind for the re­
ception of mòral and religious truths; doubt the truth of
Revelation; reject the doctrines of Christianity; and be natu
rally inclined to skepticism, fatalism, and deism, if not athe­
ism, &c.
The descriptions and combinations under marvel, mode­
rate, will generally apply to marvel, small, especially after
a diminution of the influence of marvel. The descriptions
and combinations under marvel, large, reversed, will also
apply to marvel, small. The same principle holds good in
reference to all the other organs.
Very small.— One having marvel, very sm all, will
doubt almost every thing, and fully believe scarcely any
thing; will even doubt the evidence of his own senses, and
be almost unwilling to say that he positively knows any
thing, and much less any thing pertaining to religion, &c.
Location.—Marvel, is located on the two sides of ven.,
between imitât, and hope. It runs lengthwise in the di­
rection of the coronal sutures, and lies nearly under them.
Very large imitât., throws it as far back as the middle of the
head.
The authors have seen many interesting examples of ex­
treme developments, and ofextremedeficiencies, ofthis organ,
sòme of which will be presented in a subsequent portion of
the work. In the American head, it isgenerally moderate or
small, while invthe English head, it is frequently large. In
many very zealous preachers, they have found it large. In
Methodists,thisorgan, and ven., and adhes., are generally full,
large, or very large, while in Campbelites all these organs
are generally only moderate or small. In the so-called new
Digitized by LooQle
VENERATION. 14?
measure Presbyterians, it is generally small, while conscien.
and benev. are generally large or very large. In Roman
Catholicks, marvel, and ven., are generally large or very
large.
17. VENERATION.
SerUiment of adoration and worship for the Supreme Be­
ing—reverencefor what is considered above us—respectfor
superiority, fyc.
That there existsin the human mind a disposition to “wor­
ship God,” and that this disposition constitutes one of the
strongest ofthe human passions, are matters of universal his­
tory and observation. Strike from the page of history, and
from thecustoms ofsociety, every thing pertaining toreligion,
or, rather, every thing connected with the worship ofdeified
beings, and the unity, and even identity, of the whole would
be destroyed. In producing this religious feeling and wor­
ship, education, doubtless, has its influence;but still they must
be the exercise of some faculty of the mind. Education evi­
dently cannot create this feeling. As well might weattempt
to educate a man to speak who possessed noorgans of speech,
or to see without eyes—as well try to teach the brute crea­
tion to worship God, as to attempt to teach man to worship
when destitute of a faculty by which to exercise this feeling,
or even to conceive what it means.
This class of functions is distinct and homogeneous; and
if the mental economy requires a separate faculty for the
exercise of any distinct class of functions, analogy shows
us that this class, equally with any and every other class,
must also be exercised by a distinct faculty. The history
and the manifestations of this faculty, prove that the functions
ascribed to it, are always reciprocally proportionate to the
developments of a given poition of the brain. If, therefore,
there is any truth in phrenology, the sentiment of worship
for a Supreme Being, must be admitted to be the exercise ofa
distinct mental faculty—a faculty which is innate,and which,
therefore, forms a constituent portion of the human mind.
That the worship of a Supreme Being constitutes the pri­
mary, the legitimate, and the chief object of this faculty, is
rendered abundantly evident by a reference to its nature, its
discovery, its history, and the whole tenour of its manifesta­
tions; and that a reverence for those who are considered su-
Digitized by GooQle
148 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED;
periours, such as parents,the aged, the talented, the titled, &c.,
is only an incidental manifestation of yen., is rendered equal­
ly evident by a similar reference.
This faculty also throws the mind into a deferential frame»
and creates a feeling of respect for all.
L a r g e .—One having large ven., will think of the Deity
only with feelings of awe, if not of devotion; has a strong
religious tendency of mind, and, indeed, can hardly be con­
tented without some kind of religion; pays great respect to
the religious opinions of others; always treats those whom
he considers his superiours in age, standing, talents, &c..
with deference, and his equals with respect; and will never
make light of what he considers true religion, nor of the
Supreme Being.
One having large ven., with large or very large adhes.
and conscien., will experience a high degree ofenjoyment in
social meetings for religious worship and exercises; will ear­
nestly desire the conversion and salvation of his friends, and,
with large philopro. added, of his children, and will pray
earnestly for these objects; and, with the addition of mode­
rate or ¿mall concent., will be exceedingly annoyed in his
devotions, by the intrusion of wandering thoughts, against
which he will strive, and for which his conscien. will con­
demn him ; will find it exceedinglydifficult to keep his mind
fixed upon the prayer or sermon; greatly prefer short pray­
ers and sermons, and greatly dislike those that are prolix;
and will give variety to his religious exercises, and detest
those that are monotonous or tedious: with large combat.,
will defend his religious opinions with great warmth and
.spirit, and contend earnestly for their advancement; and, with
destruct. also large, will be liable to employ considera­
ble severity and harshness of expression ; with the addition
of large or very large firm, and self-o., and of only full be-
nev., will be much set, and somewhat bigoted, in his religious
opinions and practices; esteem his own sect, creed, and forms
of worship, far more than hedoes any other, and even blindly
and tenaciously adhere to them, and denounce those who
differ from him: with only moderate firm., large ideal, and
hope, and full or large marvel., will be apt frequently to
change his religious opinions and connexions, yet will be
zealous as a Christian: with large secret., acquis., and appro-
bat., and only moderate conscien., if he pay any regard at
all to religion, will be likely to make great pretensions to
Digitized by Google
VENERATION. 149
piety ; put on a fair outside show of religion ; and connect
himself with some popular religious denomination, yet will
possess very little practical piety and every-day religion;
will have the “form of godliness without its pow er;11 will
neglect duty, disregard justice, violate moral principle, and
take shelter under the cloak of his religious pretensions ;
will be a worldling all the week, yet a very strict Christian
on the Sabbath, &c. : with moderate conscien. and small mar­
vel., will not be likely to experience much religious venera­
tion ; and may be even infidel in his religious creed; but his
ven. will be directed towards his parents, the aged, the tal­
ented, the patriotick, or, it may be, his supérieurs in rank,
office, and station: with large or very large conscien., benev.,
caus., and compar., will delight to study the character and
the works, ana contemplate the perfections, of the Deity ;
will be a consistent, every-day Christian ; rejoice to see the
vour and warmth of feeling to his religious exercises, and
take great delight in them; adopt consistent religious opin­
ions and practices, and be an honour to the Christian name,
both in life and doctrine, &c.
Very large.—One having very large ven., with con­
scien. large or very large, will make everything subservient
to his religious views and feelings; wT
ill experience great
awe upon the contemplation of God, and manifest great fer­
vour and intense feeling while engaged in religious worship
and exercises, and take his chief delight in them ; be pre­
eminent for piety and religious fervour; will make the wor­
ship and the service of his Creator the paramount object of
his life, and be liable to become over-zealous, if not enthusi-
astick, in his religious feelings and views.
The combinations under large ven., modified by an in­
crease ofthe influence ofven., will apply to very large ven.;
and the combinations and descriptions under moderate or
small ven. reversed.i, will also apply to it.
Full.—One having fu ll ven., will pay a suitable respect
to religion, and will worship his Creator with sincere devo­
tion, yet will not be particularly devout. One having full ^
ven., with large or very large conscien. and benev., will be
pie-eminently religious, and, perhaps, make religion the
great object of hislife, yet his religion will be characterized
by a regard for moral principle, a desire to do good, &c.#
Digitized by Google
150 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
more than by a regard for religious worship, creeds, and
ceremonies; will piice a much higher estimate upon the du­
ties and the first principles of religion, than he will upon
any external observances: with conscien. and marvel, only
moderate or small, will not be likely to pay much regard to
.religion ofany kind, or, if he does, will be satisfied with the
-name and the forms of religious worship, &c.
The additional manifestations andcombinationsoffull ven.,
may be inferred from those under large ven., bydiminishing
the influence of ven.
Moderate.—One having moderate ven., will not be par­
ticularly religious, nor very zealous in his religious observ­
ance; will not manifest a great deal of deference towards
superiours, nor impart a great degree of warmth or fervour
to his devotional performances. One having moderate ven.,
with large or very large conscien. and benev., if religiously
educated, will maintain a consistent, religious walk, and “do
works meet for repentance,” yet will pay comparatively
[little regard to religious creeds and observances ; will be
likely to be very zealous in reforming the world, and in
“converting men from the errour of their ways,” yet will
despise sectarianism, and regard only the “weightier matters
of the law;” will make great sacrifices in order to do good,
promote pure morality, and prevent sin, yet will not be par­
ticularly devout ; will make the chiefburden of his petitions
tothe throne of grace, consist in confessions ofsin, and suppli­
cations for his fellowmen, rather than in adoration and wor­
ship ; will follow the dictates of his own conscience, even
though they oblige him to forsake “the good old way,”
and adopt new measures ; will think more of doing good
than of attending religious meetings ; will live an upright,
and consistent, Christian life, and perform all the essentials
of religion, yet will pay little or no attention to meats and
drinks, &c.
Small.—One having small ven., will experience but lit­
tle feeling of devotion, or love of religious worship, as such;
will manifest little feeling of deference or respect for pa­
rents, teachers, or superiours; and be deficient in the heart,
and soul, and ferigour, of devotion; will not be very pious,
nor at all particular in observing religious ceremonies, nor
particularly impressed with a feeling of solemnity and awe,
while engaged in religious exercises, &c.
One having small ven, with moderate or small consçiea
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
VXNXRATION. 151
and marvel., will have very little regard for religion ; seldom;
if ever, attend religious meetings; and when he does attend
them, will go from other than devotionat feelings ; will be
very little affected by solemn or religious exercises, or by ap­
peals to his conscience, orto hisfear ofoffending God ; be in*
fluenced but little by the restraints of religion ; doubt almost
every thing connected with religious belief; be irreverent,
irreligious, unprincipled, and skeptical;and, with large mirth,
and imitât, added, inclined to ridicule religious people and re*
iigtous services by imitating or mocking them; and, with
large combat., destruct., and selfe. also added, will oppose
everything pertaining to religion; denounce it either as a
delusion, or as a humbug, by which designing men impose
upon the simple and the unsuspecting.
The descriptions and combinations under moderate ven.,
after due allowance has been made for the diminished influ­
ence of ven., will apply to ven. small,
i The office*of ven. is simply to reverence and worship that
which the other faculties select as the proper objects of its
exercise.
It has been already remarked, that its primary and legiti­
mate object is, the worship of a Supreme Being, yet, as in
thecase ofconscien.,theotherfaculties, education, &c., modify
notions entertained ofthe character ofthe being tobe wor­
shipped. For example; one having full, large, or very large
ven,, with a deficiency of the intellectual faculties, will be
likely to regard the Deity as exercising the various human
Eassions, and swayed by human prejudices, and to worship
itn accordingly : with large or very laTge self-e. and firm.,
as an omnipotent Sovereign, clothed with authority, immuta­
ble and unchangeable, and ruling his creatures “according
to his own will with full or largedestruct., firm., and self-e*
and targe or very large conscien., benev.,and adhes., will re*
gard him as Ma God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering,
and abundant in goodness and truth, and who will by no
means clear the guilty ;” as perfectly holy himself, and, also#
as requiring holiness of all his creatures ; as creating and
governing his moral subjects with a special reference to the!»
greatest ultimate good, and, in doing this, as rewarding those
who obey his commands, and punishing such as disobey; a«
blending mercy with justice; or, rather, as infinitely benev*
aient, yet as a God who will “not let the wicked go unprcm*
ished. with very large benev., only moderate or fall con*
Digitized by GooQle
152 PHRENOLOGY ILLU STR A TED .
scien., combat, and destruct, will consider the Deity too
benevolent and too merciful topanisbthe wicked: with large
ideal, will fancy that he sees him clothed with splendour»
and, while contemplating the beautiful, the perfect, or the
sublime in theworks of nature, will worship him with a fer­
vid glow ofdevotion: with large or very large individ.,form»
size, and local, will contemplate the Deity as possessed of
form and size, a local habitation, &c.: with large or very
large cans, andcompar.,will view God asthe greatfirst-cause
ofall things, and as effectinghis purposesby means ofcauses
and effects; and, with the intellectual faculties generally
large, as possessed of all possible wisdom and intelligence^
and as governing his universe in accordance with the great
principles of reason: with very large adhes. and benev., asa
God of great sympathy and love; and, with very large phi-
lopro. added, as acting the part ofa tender parentto his crea­
tures, and as entering, with a feeling of tenderness, into all
their little joys and sorrows: with very large destruct. and
combat, and educated in uncivilized society, as capable of
being propitiated by the sacrifice of human or animal vic­
tims, &c. :
According to this principle of phrenology, (which is con­
sidered as established,) one with the moral and the intellectu­
al organs large or very large, and the propensities full, and
all unpervertedin their education and exercise,will form cor­
rect views of the character, attributes, and government of
God, and worship him with pure.and acceptable worship.
This is rendered the moreevidentfromthe feet,thatthe views
entertained of God by different nations and different individ­
uals, with the exception of the influence of association and
education, generally correspond with their phrenological or­
ganizations. Consequently, if an individual possesses a
well-balanced, and a perfectlydeveloped,phrenological organ­
ization, his views of the character, the attributes, and the gov­
ernment of God, must therefore be proportionally the more
consistent and correct
This same conclusion is also strengthened bythe principle
of adaptation already alluded to. The mindofman must be
constructed in perfect accordance with those great principles
which regulate the structure of the whole universe, and the
moral faculties of man's mind, in accordance with the moral
constitution and relations of things. Consequently, the mind
of man must be so formed as naturally to view his Creator
Digitized by L.ooQle
BENKVOLSNCX. I 153
through the medium of truth, and to form only correct op­
tions of him.
This harmonizes perfectly with the doctrine taught by the
great Apostle of the Gentiles, when he says, that “the Gen­
tiles, who have not the law,” that is, who are destituteof Rev­
elation, “are a law unto themselves,” and “show the works
of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bear­
ing them witness.” Not that a divine revelation is unneces­
sary, but, that phrenology opens up to our view another rev­
elation, to wit, a revelation of natural theology, which per
fectly harmonizes with that which is given by inspiration—
a volume which every man carries, or should carry, within
his own breast, and which “he that runs may read.”
Location.—Ven. is located anteriour to firm., in the mid­
dle of the top of the head, and nearly beneath the union of
the coronal sutures.
19. BENEVOLENCE.
Desirefor the happiness of others—sympathy, compassion
kindness, fellow-feeling, benignity.
By creating in the breast of man, an interest inthe welfare
of his fellow-men, this faculty prompts its possessor to per­
form those innumerable acts of kindness and generosity
which, by gratifying his benev., greatly increase the happi­
ness of the giver, and, by adding new comforts to those al­
ready possessed, proportionally enlarge the enjoyments ofthe
receiver. Though it is blessed to receive, it is still “more
blessed to give than to receive.”
Let us suppose, for a moment, that every vestige of this
feeling were blotted out from among men—let us suppose the
human breast to becallousto the cries of suffering innocence,
steeled against the wants and miseries of the world, and per­
fectly insensible to the happiness or unhappiness of all cre­
ated beings, and what a picture of moral desolation—what a
frigid region of suffering and sorrow, should we have pre­
sented to our view ! Wrapped in his cold cloak of selfish­
ness, man might, perhaps, endure existence, but an existence
to which annihilation would be preferable. Never to give,
or receive, a favour, to say nothing of the mutual advantage
accruing to mankind from the principle of helping oneanoth­
er, he would, of course, be a perfect stranger to the delightful
and thrilling emotion of gratitude, either to God or man.
Digitized by LooQle
Let us suppose, in addition, that none of this feeling had
entered into the Divine Mind, and that, in the construction
of our bodies, and in the arrangement of the physical and
the intellectual world, he had made no reference to, and in­
stituted no adaptation of, any thing that concerns the happi­
ness either of man or of the brute creation, and existence
must have been the greatest of curses. But, on the contra­
ry, we perceive that every possible arrangement and adapta­
tion which could be devised by infinite wisdom and skill,
prompted by infinite benevolence, and aided by infinite pow­
er, have been contrived by that adorable Being whose benef­
icence knows no bounds. Every work of God is a perfectly
benevolent work, planned and executed evidently with a view
to secure the greatest amount of happiness to his creatures:
and this fact incontestably proves, that the feeling of benev­
olence enters largely into the Divine Mind. Even those
pains which follow the burning, bruising, or otherwise in
juring of the body, whilst they are so man)’instances of di­
vine punishment for sin, are, at the same time, a most benev­
olent ordination, evidently designed and calculated toprevent
those injuries and mutilations which would otherwise mar
the beauty, and destroy the utility, of our corporeal frame:
and if these punishments are a benevolent ordination, anal­
ogy sanctions the inference, that all punishments are equally
benevolent; and, if even punishments are benevolently de­
signed, surely every other institution throughout the uni­
verse, must be formed for benevolent ends. This brings us
to the important conclusion, that all the miseries which man­
kind endure, are brought by themselves (collectively) upon
themselves, or, that they “give themselves the pains they
feel.”
Since, then, this principle of benevolence thus enters into
the character and the worksof God, and, also, into the while
constitution of things, it is evident, both a priori, and upon
the principle that the human mind is adaptedtothat universe
of which it forms a part, that the human mind must be so
constituted as to appreciate and exercise the function of be­
nevolence, or, in other words,that there must besome innate
faculty of the mind adapted to the exercise of this class of
feelings. That same train of argument which has been
previously employed to show that other classes of functions
are exercised by distinct faculties, proves that this class of
154 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED .
yGoogle__
BENEVOLENCE. 1
5
5
functions is likewise exercised by a separate, primary facul­
ty, created expressly and solely for this purpose.
Of all the moral organs, this occupies the most prominent
portion ofthe head, and has allotted to it the greatest surface,
thus apparently implying, that its function is designed to be
one of the cardinal, human virtues, and that to do good to
those around us, is both our privilege and our duty. Yet
how frequently is the soothing voice of benevolence drown­
ed in the din of business, of pleasure, and of fashion ! In­
deed, to learn to live in, and become a part of, society as it
now exists, is to learn to be supremely selfish; and to “ac­
quire a knowledge of the world,’* is to become acquainted
with the maxims and the practices dictated by selfishness.
In the little child, we sometimes see the feeling of benev.
manifested in its pure state; but, in adults, how seldom do
we behold it unadulterated by the selfish passions, or un­
stifled by their hoarse clamours! Every thing can be had,
and every thing done, for money; but he who is dependent
for support or for happiness solely upon the benevolence of
mankind, runs but a poor chance of enjoying even the ne­
cessaries of life.
This faculty originates that feeling of sympathy which
manifests itself in an obliging disposition, and in reciprocal
interchanges of kind offices, and, also, that feeling of hu­
manity which willingly makes a sacrifice of personal hap­
piness in order to relieve the miseries, and promote the
enjoyment, of others.
Large.—One having benev. large, in the expression of
his countenance, in his manners, and in all his intercourse
with his fellow-men, will manifest a warm and glowing feel­
ing of kindness and good-will; enter into the interests of
others, and do much to advance them; “rejoice with those
that do rejoice, and weep with those that weep;” and expe­
rience that strong desire to witness and promote the enjoy­
ment of his fellow-men which will make him willing, and
even glad, to sacrifice his own ease and interests in order to
alleviate the sufferings, or to augment the comforts, of his
fellow-men, and even of the brute creation.
One having benev. large, with large or very large adhes.,
will manifest this feelingto all, and be 'particularly kind and
obliging to hisfriends; will sympathize deeply in their dis­
tresses ormisfortunes,and,with acquis,only moderate, add lib­
erality to friendship; be pre-eminently hospitable; willing to
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
do and sacrifice much for those he loves, in serving whom he
will often injure himself; and, with large or very large philo-
pro. added, will be extremely kind to children, to the infirm,
the aged, and the destitute, and ready to perform thoseacts of
kindness which they require, and which sympathy, mingled
with affection, alone can prompt: with moderate acquis., only
full approbat. and selfe., and large or very large secret.,
ideal., and conscien., will proffer his favours in a manner pe­
culiarly modest and delicate: with very large approbat., and
only full conscien. and caus., will do and give partly on ac­
count ofthe approbation awarded tobenevolent actions: with
large or very large approbat., conscien., and adhes., will give
partly to please others, and partly to make them happy,
which union of motives will greatly increase the manifesta­
tions of benev.: with large acquis., willbe more kind than lib­
eral; unless a case of distress strongly excite his benev., will
give sparingly and grudgingly, yet freely bestow his time,
services,and whatever does notdraw directlyupon his acquis.;
in his sympathy and kind feeling, (which, after all, are the
better manifestations of this faculty,) will show a large share
of pure benevolent feeling, yet will generally be considered
very far frombeing benevolent; but, with large or very large
adhes., and only moderate or small acquis., will be ready to
help his fellow-men, and particularly hisfriends, with both
his services and his substance, and be quite loo generous for
his own good : with full or large acquis., and large or very
large ven. and conscien., may give freely to religious and
philanthropick societies; to the advancement of missionary
enterprises; and in cases of real distress; but not upon
other occasions: with only moderate destruct, cannot endure
to witness suffering or death, nor see pain inflicted without
experiencing a pang himself: with large combat, and de­
struct., and an active temperament, will manifest a geneial
spirit of mildness and kindness, and, when these organs are
not excited, will be much moved at the sight of pain, yet,
when his anger is thoroughly roused, will even inflict pain
with delight; except in a fit of passion, will not cause corpo­
real suffering, yet will be extremely bitter and sarcastick in
his expressions, and manifest strong indignation and resist­
ance towards his enemies, and those whom he thinks would
impose upon him: with large or very large cautious., full
secret., and only moderate or full destruct, will be careful
not to do or say any thing designed or calculated to wound
156 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
BENEVOLENCE. 157
the feelings of others; yet, with only moderate secret., will
often speak before he reflects, and speak in such a manner
as to injure the feelings even of his best friends, but will
soon be sorry for it: with large or very large adhes. and
firm., when he undertakes to help a friend out of trouble,
will help him effectually; but, with only moderate or full
firm., will espouse the cause of a friend with great warmth
of feeling, which, however, will soon become cool, and leave
him in a worse predicament than he would have been in
without his help: with large or very large conscicn. and
caus., will be actuated to do good both by feelings of genu­
ine benev., and, also, by a sense of duty; endeavour to make
men happy by first reforming them and making them virtu­
ous; and, writh large ideal., and only full self-e. added, will
manifest his benev. in so refined and delicate a manner as
not to oppress the recipient with a sense of obligation : with
large or very large mirth., will endeavour to augment the
enjoyment of all around him by his mirthful effusions, and,
except when provoked to it, will not be sarcastick : with
large or very large self-e., and only moderate or full consci-
en., will show favours to those who acknowledge their obli­
gations to him, and render him all the tribute of respect he
may claim, yet will bestow but few favours upon those who
wound his pride: with large or very large caus, compar.,
and individ., will lay judicious plans, and employ the best
means for doing good and relieving distress; take hold of
benevolent enterprises in the right way, &c.
Very l a r g e .—One having benev. very large, with large
or very laige eonscien., will possess, as it were, a deep and
an overflowing fountain of kind and tender feeling, and have
a heart full of sympathy and goodness; cause trouble to
those around him with great reluctance; grieve over the
miseries of mankind, and sacrifice almost any personal com­
fort and interest upon the altar of his benev.; be pre-eminent
for his philanthropy and his real goodness of heart, and all
from feelings of disinterested benev.; and, with large ven.
added, will gladly devote himself and spend his all in pro­
moting the salvation of his fellow-men, and in advancing the
cause of humanity and religion: with large or very large
adhes., will be likely to ruin himself by assisting his friends,
and will ask what they want, rather than what he can afford
to give; and, with large or very large philopro. and consci-
en , will be pre-eminently qualified to endure the fatigues of
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
158 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATECI
attending upon the sick; watch, with the utmost anxiety,
over a sick friend, and perform ten thousand acts of kindness
which nothing but the strongest feelings of benev., increased
by the tenderest feelings offriendship, could suggest or sup­
port him under; with only moderate or full destruct. added,
will be nearly overcome by the sight of suffering or death,
&c.
The combinations and descriptions under benev. large,
modified by an increase of its influence,will apply to benev.
very large.
F ull.—Onehaving benev.fully will experience, in a good
degree, the phenomena described under large benev., yet
will manifest less active benev.; not be very willingtomake
personal sacrifices, or waive his own interests, in order to
oblige others, yet will experience considerable benevolent
feeling; and will be more apt to give from selfish motives
than one with large benev. For example; one having be­
nev. full, with several of the selfish faculties large or very
large, and conscien. only full, in general, will first gratify
these larger organs, even though he must do so at the ex­
pense of his benev.; will be habitually moreselfishthan be­
nevolent, and seek his own interest, though he thereby in­
fringe even upon the rights of others: with other large or
very large organs acting in conjunction with benev., may
manifest a large share of generosity and liberality; yet, with
these same, or any other, organs, acting in opposition to his
benev., will appear to be comparatively destitute of these
qualities: with approbat. very large, and conscien. only full,
may give “ tobe seen of men” and take some pains to show
others what he has done: with approbat. or self-e., or both,
large or very large, may give even lavishly, but it will be
from selfish or mercenary motives: with large or very large
combat., destruct., firm., and self-e., or approbat., to gain his
will, may assist in buildingchurches, ana in advancing good
objects, yet the feeling of pure benev. will be only secon­
dary.
Moderate.—One havingbenev. moderate,will, perhaps,
do favours which cost him Tittle or no self-denial, yet will
exercise but little sympathy for his suffering fellow-men, and
seldom step aside from his own selfish pursuits in order to
relieve their distresses, or increase their enjoyment; and ex­
perience but few benevolent remonstrances or promptings.
The manifestations and the combinations described under
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
SEM I-IN TELLECTU A L 8SN TIM EN T8. 159
benev. large, reversed* will apply to benev. moderate, and,
also, to benev. small; and those under benev. small, due al­
lowance being made for the increase of benev., will also ap­
ply to benev. moderate.
Small.—One having benev. small* will seldom disoblige
himself in order to obligeothers; seldom think or care how
much loss or inconvenience he subjects others to; and, with
any or all of the selfish organs large or very large, beselfish
in theextreme; and seek,exclusively, the gratification of his
own selfish passions, regardless of the consequences to oth­
ers : with large or very large combat, and destruct., will not
only, not be moved to pity by the sight of suffering and
deatn, but even take delight in witnessing and causing
them: with large or very large adhes., may love ardently,
yet will never add kindness to affection, &c.
The combinations and descriptions under benev. large or
very large, reversed, will apply to benev. small.
Very small.—One having benev. very small,will never
feel his heart beat with the emotion of pity; never heed the
most heart-rending cries of distress; and, with the selfish
organs large or very large, and the reflective only moderate
or full, will be literally a fiend incarnate.
This faculty is generally rtiuch stronger in females than
in males, and creates, in the former, a much greater mani­
festation of sympathy, oftenderness, of “the milk of human
kindness,” of benignity, of pure sensibility for suffering and
desire to relieve it, than is manifested bythe other sex. From
this fountain spring those innumerable acts of kindness, and
those ten thousand attentions to the wants and woes of oth­
ers, for which woman is so pre-eminent.
Location.—Benev. is located in the anterior superiour
portion of the head, just forward of ven., and of the union
of the coronal sutures, and beneath the posterior superiour
portion of the frontal bone. (See cut of the female head,
and contrast it with the scull of Aurelia Chase.)
SPECIES III.—Semi-intellectual Sentiments.
Improvement seems to be the watchword of our race,
and its spirit is manifested in those almost innumerable in­
ventions and contrivances which so greatly augment our
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
160 P I U V e iO O T ILLU STm ATID .
comforts, multiply out conveniences, and give new charms
to our existence. These improvements result from a class
of faculties which partake of the nature and qualities of
both the sentimentsandthe intellectual faculties,constituting,
as it were, a stepping-stonebetween them.
20. CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
Mechanical ingenuity and, talent—ability to make, build,
construct, and manufacture.
Well has the philosophick Franklin observed, that “man
is a tool making animaland with equal propriety he might
have added, “and the only tool-making and tool-using ani­
mal, because the only animal which unites constructvenese
with causality.” Unquestionably man is calculated for liv­
ing in houses, wearing apparel, and, by theaid of machinery,
effecting objects which are even necessary to his well-being.
Mechanical principles, by the application of which vas*
additions can be made to the sum total of human happiness,
and human improvement, are also found to exist, and,
likewise, topervade the physical world. Now, since man
forms a part of this physical world, and is, in part, under
the dominion of these law's, there exists an absolute necessi­
ty for him to possess some innate and primary faculty, the
office of which is to take cognizance of these principles,
and, also, to exercise this class of the mental functions. In­
deed, without such a faculty, man would not be adapted to
that physical state of existence -in which he is placed, but
would be imperfect, and perish. This faculty is found in
construct.
Men are not made skilful mechanicks and artisans sole­
ly, nor even chiefly, by instruction; for, if they wrere, (other
conditionsbeingequal,) their skill anddexterity wouldalways
be in proportion to the amountof instruction received. But
such is by no means the case; for we frequently observe
that some who haveevery advantage of instruction, make but
indifferent workmen, whilst others seem intuitively to un­
derstand the art of manufacturing. Proper instruction may,
indeed, improve the natural talents even of the latter, and
greatly facilitate their operations, yet they possess a natural
capability of being taught to make—a docility which often
manifests itself very early in life, and of which others are
comparatively destitute. Who taught Michael Angelo how
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. 161
to build, or Canova how touse the chisel, or.Benjamin West
how to paint while yet not nine years old, and entirely ig­
norant of the art of painting? Nature, mainly. Their
powers were innate, or, in other words, they possessed ex­
traordinary construct., aided by other faculties.
Developments of this faculty, and, also, a want of it, exist
in combination with almost every conceivable variety of
character and talents. Men of feebleintellects often possess
it in a remarkable degree, whilst others who have gigantick
minds, are sometimes almost entirely destitute of it. The
conclusion, therefore, is inevitable, that a talent for making
and building, must depend upon a distinct and primary,
mental power.
Lxegb.—One having construct, large,will possess a high
degree of natural skill in making, building, contriving, re­
pairing, &c.; be prone to whittle and scribble; be delighted
with mechanical operations; and, with large imitat., aided
by some practice, can becomean excellent mechanick.
In effectingmechanical operations, otherorgans contribute
as largely as construct. For examplej one having large
construct., with large or very large imitat., will be uncom­
monly dexterous in making after a pattern, and can readily
learn to do with tools what he sees others do; with large or
very large form and ideal, added, will give a peculiar finish
ananeatnessto hiswork,andsucceed in makingfineand fancy
articles, such as combine utility with richness and elegance;
but, with ideal, only moderate, will succeed only in making
commonanduseful things:with large firm,and self-e.,large or
very large form, size, ideal., caus»,andcompar., and only mod­
erate imitat, will excel in superintending mechanical opera­
tions ; in directing others what to do and how to do it, and
in judging of the qualities of work, and will be a first-rate
foreman, yet will not himself excel as an operative mechan­
ick; can plan and oversee much better than execute; but,
with large or very large imitat. added, will excel in both;
be a natural mechanick or artist of a very high order; be
capable of turning his hand readily toalmost any branch of
mechanicalbusiness;and frequently contrivenew methodsof
accomplishing his work; with large or very large conscien.
added,will never slighthis work; with large weightand indi-
vid.added, behighly delighted with the operationsofmachine­
ry ; able to comprehend it and judge of its adaptation; and
possess an extraordinary talent for drawing, draughting,
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
1 6 2 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
modelling, planning, and probably for inventing ;be remark?
ably ingenious, and very successful, in every branch of ma>
chanicks which he may undertake: with large or very large
concent., will dwell patiently upon any piece of work until
it is entirely completed, and rendered as perfect as possible;
and will be able to engage in only one kind of labour at a
time; but, with moderate or small concent., will leave much
of his work unfinished; generally have on hand several
pieces of work at a time, and feel a desire frequently!!to
change from one tothe other ; berather ua jack atalltraded
than perfect in any, &c.: with large or very largeicoinbab
and destruct., and only full conScien., when his work does
not please him, will become angry with it, and feel like
breaking or tearing it in pieces: with very large ¿elite*hdpe,
and ideal., will be induced to try many mechanical expgfh
ments; to engage largely in heavy operations, antfcimq
speculations ; and be likely tospendmuchtime in endeamra
ing toinvent: with vety largeideal., imitât,, mirth.,
colour, local.,and compar.,can design and execute ludicrbus
pictures or drawings, burlesque representations, caricature^
&c. ; copy hand-writings ; draw after a pattern; reeaUoot)
for a long time, the shape of faces, landscapes* maohhma
&c., which he has seen, and make their fac similes^or d m
and make from memory; and, with large or very large cana
and compar. added to this combination, can readdy adapt
mechanical principles to the accomplishment of desired
chanical objects; readily detect the faults in machinery and
remedy them ; invent and improve machinery, &c. : with
large or very large imitât., individ., form, size,weight, order;
and calcu,,.and full 01?large compar. and caus., will make a
first-rate engineer, surveyor, *:oij
V e r y large.—One having construct very large, with
very large ideal., imitât., individ., form, size, colour, and
compar., will literally possess a passion for the pursuit o£
the fine arts ; beable to perform almost any operation be­
longing to mechanieks or the arts with wonderful and intutf
tive skill, and with extraordinary facility and success; io
make almost any thing within the attainment of human in­
genuity ; to become an artist or mechanick of the very first
order; and will be likely tobreak away from all hinderances,
and to surmount every obstacle,in order to indulge this pa
sion ; will be able toimpart a peculiar beautyanda richness
to all his works, and combine perfect accuracy with taate^
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
9ftd will excel in everyundertakingofthe kind, even though
obliged to use indifferent tools.
The descriptions and combinations under large construct,
due allowance being made for the increase of the construc­
tive power, will apply to construct, very large.
F ull.—One havingfid iconstruct.,with large imitat.,will
possess a respectable share of mechanical ingenuity ; and,
with the addition of large or very large form and size, and
full individ., have all the natural talent requisite for becom­
ing an excellent mechanick, especially in those branches
which require but little more than making after a pattern ;
can learn to use tools with tolerable dexterity, yet will re­
quire considerablepractice, but with it,will become quitesuc­
cessful; can repair articles that break, and “fix up” such
things as he may have occasion to use in his family and his
business; yet his success will depend as much upon art as
nature; with imitat. only full, will seem to possess this fac
lilty only in an inferiour degree, especially if circumstances
do not imperiously urge its exercise, and will be dependant,
%hsome degree, forany mechanical skill or successwhich he
may ¿manifest, upon hiß other faculties, such as form, size,
local., ideal., compar., caus., &c.
The additional descriptions and combinations under con:
struct, full, will be found under construct, large, after due
allowance has been made for the diminution of construct.
■!. Moderate.—One having moderate construct., with only
moderate imitat, may learn, with considerable effort, some
of the less difficult “trades,” yet will never be eminent for
his skill in any; may, perhaps, learn toconstructthose plain
articles which are often called for in the family and in busi­
ness, yet will show but little skill*and dexterity in such op­
erations, and prefer to pay a mechanick for executing them j
will dislike to use tools, and choose some occupation which
is not mechanical: with imitat. and form large or very large,
may succeed well in making after a pattern ; manifestcon­
siderable skill in copying, and easily learn to do what he
sees done by others, yet will owehis success mainly to these
last-named faculties; and, with large or very large compar.
and caus.added,may, perhaps, directothers,and improvetheir
inventions, and even invent, yet will not possess much inde­
pendent, mechanical talent, &c.
Small.—One having smallconstruct., with only moderate
imitat, will be abletolearn .to perform even simple raecban,-
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. 163
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
164 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
ical operations only with great difficulty, and then merely
as an automaton ; will manifest but little skill or dexterity in
the use of tools or the pen ; dislike a mechanicaloccupation
more than almost any other; do every thing in which the
exercise of this faculty is requisite only by main strength,,
and without contrivance oringenuity; and bea mere bungler
in almost every thing of the kind which he undertakes.
The additional combinations and descriptions of small
construct., will be foundunder moderate construct., the influ­
ence of construct, being diminished.
Very small.—One having very small construct., will be
apparently destitute of all mechanical ingenuity and incli­
nation.
In the sculls and casts of several North American Indi­
ans, in the scull of a New Zealander and of a Charib Indi­
an, examined by the authors, this organ is either small or
very small, which harmonizes perfectly with the fact, that in
every mechanicalart andeffort,these tribesare quiteinferiour
to many races of men.
L o c a t io n .—Construct, is located just above the middle
of a line connecting the top of the ear and the external cor­
ner of the eye; or, just below ideal., and a little forward
of it.*
When both organs are large or very large, they form an
obtuse angle, ideal, extending in a nearly horizontal direc­
tion, and construct, uniting withit in nearly a perpendicular
direction. When the intellectual organsare large and long,
itspreads itself upon the sides ofthe head, and thus presents
but little prominence. This, together with the temporal
muscle, which passes over it, and varies inthickness, causes,
except in the case of children, an occasional mistake. It
may likewise be added, that many individuals who possess,
by nature, no small share of the constructive power, think
they have but little, because they have never been so situated
as to call it forth, and, also, because they suppose that con­
struct. applies exclusivelyto the use of tools as employed by
a professed mechanick, yet, when occasion requires, theyare
found quite skilful in executing repairs, and have a whittling
and tinkering propensity.
* It may be properhere to remark, that,in the large cut, acquis. and construct
are located too farforward, and aliment., too low.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
ID EA LITY. 165
21. IDEALITY.
Imagination—fancy—love of the exquisite, the beautiful,
the splendid, the tasteful, and the polished—that impas­
sioned ecstacy and rapture of feeling which give inspi­
ration to poetry and oratory, and a conception of the sub­
lime.
That there exists in the human mind some faculty, the
function of which is to inspire man with a love ofthe beau
tiful and the exquisite—a fondness for the sublime, the ele­
gant, and the tasteful, will appear evident when we compare
man with the lower order of animals, or civilized man with
the savage, or the refined inhabitants of a city with the com­
mon population of the country. Were it not for the influ­
ence of this faculty, these things w’ouldbeheld in no higher
estimation by man than by the brute, or by one man than by
another. Were it not for its influence, mankind wouldhave
no higher relish for the exquisite, the tasteful, the beautiful,
and the sublime, than for the insipid, the dull, the homely,
and the vulgar. Were it not for this faculty, we should no
more highly prize the bold images, the glowing flights of
fancy, the daring thoughts, and the impassioned bursts of
eloquence which characterize the productions of Homer, of
Shakspeare, of Milton, of Byron, of Addison, of Irving, of
Chalmers, of Patrick Henry, and of Daniel Webster, than
we do the plainer and dryer style of Locke, Dean Swift,
William Cobbett, and manyother still more homely writers.
Without ideality, the splendid productions of a Raphael, a
Corregio, a Canova, a Phidias, and a Praxiteles, would find
no more favour in our eves than the rudest paintings, and
the roughest carvings, of the most uncivilized nations.
Although poetry is one form in which this faculty mani­
fests itself, yet it is by no means exclusively confined to a
relish for the inspirations of the muses. Though essential
to the poet, it takes a wider range. It adds to the delight
we take in vietving an elegant statue, an exquisite painting,
a splendid temple, or any other finished production of art.
It causes and increases the glow and rapture experienced in
beholding the beautiful landscape, the rugged cliff! the bold
promontory, and the lofty mountain. It now loves to see
the “wilderness and the solitary place” made glad,and “the
desert rejoice and blossom as the rosef and "at thepeep of
Digitized by LooQle
166 PHRENOLOGY- ILLUSTRATED.
dawn,” when fair Aurora “sprinkles with rosy light the
dewy lawn” it delights to see “old octean smile;” and then
“to ride upon the wings of the wind;” and then “ upon the
circle of the heavens;” and then, again, to see the untied
winds
“Take the ruffian billows hy the top,
Curling their monstrous headq, and hanging them
With deaf’ning clamours in the slipp’ry clouds.“
Ideality gives elevation, and fervour, and polish, to the
mind; inspires man with a love of improvement and refine­
ment, and assists him in formingand realizing splendidcon­
ceptions and undertakings. With approbativeness large, it
often manifests itself in a fondness for splendour in apparel,
equipage, houses, and pleasure-grounds, and is an important
element in gayety, fashion, and elegance of manners.
L arge.—One having ideal, large,will possess refinement
and exquisiteness of taste and feeling, a lively imagina­
tion, and a brilliant fancy; an admiration of the elegant, the
beautiful, the gorgeous, the ornamental, the perfect, and the
sublime; of the fine arts and polite literature; of poetry if
of a high order, and of eloquence; and will relish every
thing fanciful and exquisite wherever it is to be found.
One having ideal, large, with colour, form,and size large,
will gaze, with intense delight, upon a splendid and well-
proportioned painting, and be able to appreciate its merits;
and, with form and local, large or very large, upon a beau­
tiful landscape, cascade, flower, &c.: with lang. and compar.
large or very large, will employ many metaphors, hyper­
boles, and other figures of speech; will express himself in
a glowing and elevated style, and, with a full-sized and an
active brain, have the natural talents for becomingquite elo­
quent in the expression of his thoughts and feelings: with
hope large or very large, will have high flights of fancy,
delight to indulge in the revellings of his imagination, and
be enraptured with his own contemplations; yet, if concent,
is only moderate, his flights will be vivid and intense, but
not long-sustained, and he must dash them off at the mo­
ment, or they will vanish: with self-e. and compar. large,
will not oftenallow an uncouth or a lowexpressionto escape
his lips, but will be disgusted with vulgarity: with only a
moderate-sized head, and only full caus. and compar., will
manifest more of refinement than solidity; of sound than
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
IDEALITY. 167
sense; of rhetorick than logick; of sickly delicacy than
vigorous intellect; of finely turned periods than important
ideas; and overload his style with figurative expressions:
With combat, and destruct. large or very laTge, throw invec*
. tive into the form of poetry: with large or very large indi-
vid., event., and lang., may make a good speaker and writer,
and a popular lecturer, yet will be indebted for these quali­
ties more to his manner thanto his.matter—to hisstyle than
to his ideas; may please the fancy, and communicate many
facts* yet will not reason closely or clearly: with amat. and
adhes. large or very large, will take a special interest insen­
timental poetry which breathes much of the passion of love,
and fires the fancy, and in romantiek and dramatick compo­
sition : with mirth, large, will relish humourous poet­
ry, such as John Gilpin, the Dunciad, Beppo, &c.: with
ven. and conscien. large, devotional and religious poetry:
with the reflective faculties large or very large, will despise
light and trashy poetry, or even that which,though beautiful
in expression, is deficient in power of thought; will relish
only that which, while it flows in smooth and equal num­
bers, bears upon its bosom a rich cargo of important ideas,
and sound, moral sentiments; and,if he attempt to compose
poetry, will imbue it with much sound, practical sense, and,
also, prefer those authors, both in poetryand prose, who em­
ploys glowing, elevated style, but pay for more attention to
thearrangement nnd the argumentthan tothe expression, &c.
Very large.—One having ideal, very large, will possess
»rich andglowing fancy,andexperience emotionsaccompani­
edwith a kind of rapture and enthusiasm, or, rather, ecstacy;
be disgusted with that which is commonplace or imperfect ;
be excessively fond of poetry and fiction; an enthusiastick
"admirer of the fine arts; and revel with ecstacy in the re­
gions of fancy.
One having very large ideal., with very large adhes. and
compar., and full lang., can make poetry of a high order,
which will breathe forth the tenderest feelings offriendship;
and will consider the commonstandard offriendship so very
low, and its exercise so imperfect, as to make him dissatisfied
with life, because he will be able to find fewrminds of kin
d?eda^mpathy and pathos with his own; will long for a
world3Where friendship will bepure and perfect,and unraix-
fed with,the least alloy; and mourn deeply over the impeiv
factions of human nature: with large perceptive organs^
Digitized by L.ooQle
168 THRENOLOOT ILLUSTRATED.
large or very large reflective organs, and full or large mor­
al organs, accompanied with an activeand a full-sized brain,
will be possessed of a deep fund ofthought, which will how
in a style, rich, but not gaudy, copious and powerful, but not
low or commonplace, splendid, but not bombastick; will be
admired for his talents,and beloved for hisamiablequalities;
will produce the best of sentiments, and yet manifest the
most exquisite feelings; and rise far above his fellow-men,
both in genius and virtue; be devoted tobelleslettre, the fine
arts, and polite literature, and also to the more substantial
branches of learning; and, with full self-e., firm., and com­
bat, will be qualified to become a splendid speaker; will
make almost any sacrifice in order to listen to a splendid or­
atorical performance; and will possess the feeling and the
power of eloquence and poetry in the highest degree.
The manifestations and descriptions under ideal, large,
modified by an increase of the qualities imparted by it, will
apply to ioeal. very large.
F ull.—One having ideal,full, will possess considerable
refinement of feeling, and some poetick fancy, yet they will
be exercised only in a subordinate degree; will be fond of
poetry and the fine arts, yet not by any means devoted to
them; may relish poetry for its sentiment or its argument,
or the love it describes, the history orphilosophyitimbodies,
&c.„ more than for its glowing imagination or vivid fancy.
One having ideal, full, with large or very large perceptive
and reasoning faculties, will confine his attention chiefly to
matters cf fact, and to the investigation of first principles,
without reference to the splendour or the drapery of style;
express his thoughtsin a straight-forward,plain, and forcible
manner, with less reference to elegance and finish of style
than to the facts and arguments; prefer thosespeakers who
do the same, and possess much more of the eloquence of
thought than of diction; prefer plainness and utility to
beauty and ornament; and seem, at times, to possess less
taste, and refinement, and delicacy of feeling, than is com­
mendable.
Moderate.—One having ideal, moderate, will seldom
experience the glow and elevation of feeling which ideal,
imparts, nor manifest a great share of refinement of feeling,
nor express himself with elegance and taste; wall regard
poetry, belleslettres, the fine aits, polite literature, works of
imagination, painting, sculpture, &c., with less enthusiasm,
Digitized by L.ooQle
IMITATION.
«ttd piefer plainness to ornament, and be rather plain and
awkward, than polished and refined, in his manners, dress,
4&c., and, with seif-e. moderate, take up with inferiour arti­
cles.
The combinations and descriptions under ideal, large, re­
versed, will convey to the mind of the reader a correct idea
of the additional descriptions and combinations of moderate
or small ideal.
S m a l l .—One having ideal, small, will be coarseand vul­
gar in his manner of expression ; have but poor ideas of
taste, of propriety, and beauty, and little relish for poetry or
oratory, or fine writing, and be but a miserable judgeofany
thing of the kind ; will be coarse and uncouth in his man­
ners, and very awkward, plain, and commonplace in every
thing he says or does.
The combinations and descriptions under ideal, full, and,
also, those under ideal, large and very large, reversed, will
apply to ideal, small.
V e r y s m a l l .—One having ideal, very small, will be
nearly destitute of the feelings and manifestations described
as pertaining to this faculty.
L o c a t io n .— Ideal, is located upon the sides of the bead,
about the spot in which the hair begins to appear, upwards
and backwards of construct., beneath the temporal ridge,
and near its union with the parietal bone, and nearly in a
line with compar., caus., and mirth. When large or very
large, the sides of the head, where the hair makes its ap­
pearance, are widened and heightened, but when it is small,
they are narrow and depressed.
22. IMITATION.
Ability to represent, copy, describe, and do what toesee done
— the power of imitation and copying in general,
Man is emphatically a creature of imitation. In perform­
ing nearly a^l the actions of his life, the power of imitation
is moreor less important, and a want of it exhibits an essen­
tial deficiency of character. In learning to speak or write
either a foreign language, or our vernacular tongue,thefac­
ulty of language furnishes us with words; but it is imitation
alone which enables us so toenunciate them asto makeour-
felves understood.
8
A
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
170 r n u o iO G Y iu u r r iiT iD .
The shill of the mechankk depends, in a very greit de­
gree, upon the extent of his imitative powers; and the ges­
ticulations of the orator, by means of which he often ex­
presses more feeling, and makes a stronger impression, than
words conld possibly convey,are the promptings of this fac­
ulty. So vastlydiversified, indeed, are the feelings and the
practices of men, that, without some faculty to direct them
into even the common usages of society, different individu­
als would hardly be recognised as belonging to the same
race ; yet, with this faculty togive a degree of uniformity to
most of their habits and practices, and thus to attract them
towards a common centre, it is easy to determine, not only
in what country, but, frequently, in what section ofthecoun­
try, the manners of an individual have been formed. Hence
we infer, that man must be possessed of a primary faculty,
the exclusive function of which is imitation in general.
The experiments of the authors upon this organ, have been
both numerous and satisfactory.
Large.—One having imhat. large, will find it easy and
natural for him to copy and represent, and possess both the
ability and the disposition successfully to exercise this fac­
ulty, either in his gesticulation, his manner of description,
his talent for drawing and writing, his desire to adopt the
manners of others, or in almost any thing else demanded
by his circumstances in life, and his other faculties.
One having imitât, large, with construct and the per­
ceptive organs also large or very large, will manifest his
imitative power in making after a pattern, in drawing, en­
graving, writing a copy-hand, &c. : with secret., ideal., and
lang., only moderate, cannot mimick, nor describe, nor act
out any thing well; but,with secret, fall or large,and ideal.,
individ., event., lang., and compar. large or very large, has
a happy talent fer description ; can relate anecdotes to ad­
miration, a fund of which he will have always at command,
so that he can always tell one story to match another ; can
represent things which he wishes to describe, in so clear a
manner, and act them out so naturally, that the hearer will
seemtoseejust whatthe speakerwishestoconvey;bythe ear­
nestness of his manner, his attitudes, gestures, theexpression
of his countenance, the apparent pathos of his feelings, &c.,
will makea fardeeper impression than language alonecould
produce, and be able to heighten the effect b} the addition
ofelegant, and even eloquent, delivery : with form, size,con
#
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
IMITATION. in
slruct., and ideal, large, will be capable of becoming an ex­
cellent penman : with self-e. full, and ideal., individ., and
lang. large, can readily adopt the manners and customs of
those wiih whom he associates; talk and act as others do;
and make himselfeasy and acceptable in almost any society
in which he may be placed, &c.
Very l a r g e .—One having imitat. very large, has a re­
markable talent for imitating almost every thing he under­
takes to imitate: with large secret.,can conceal his real feel­
ings, while he appears to feel what he does not: with large
mirth., and moderate or small ven. and conscien.,will have a
propensity to ridicule religion by imitating the peculiarities
of its professors : with large adhes., can assume the manners
pf a friend: with large or very large combat., destruct.,
self-e., and ideal., can mimick and portray the several pas­
sions of haughtiness, of indignation, of revenge, of anger,
contempt, &c : with any of the other selfish organs large
or very large, can imitate the several passions exercised by
those faculties: with large or very large event., will notice
all the actions and peculiarities of others, and be able to
mimick them perfectly; with large ideal, added, can ima­
gine and represent the action appropriate to any given senti­
ment, and express it to admiration; and, with large or
very large lang. and secret, added, can carry on a dialogue
in several voices, and adapt the expression ofhis countenance
to the feelings represented; can imitate the accents and
brogue of the Englishman, the Scotchman, the Irishman,
the Frenchman, &c., and even imitate the forms of expres­
sion adopted by these different countrymen; easily learn
both to read and to speak foreign languages: with large or
very large ideal., mirth., individ., event., lang., compar., and
adhes., and full or large secret, andcombat., is capable ofbe­
coming a first-rate mimick and play-actor, and will have a
predominant passion, and a remarkable talent, for the stage,
and find it extremely difficult to avoid imitating the actions,
conversation, style, &c., of others.
F ull.—One having imitat. full, will manifest this faculty
only in a subordinate degree, which will seldom amount to
mimic.kry; still, its influence upon the whole character will
be considerable, and may be inferred from the descriptions
and combinations of imitat. large, by diminishing the influ­
ence of imitat.
Moderate.—One having imitat. moderate, will posse»
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
172 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
this power in only an inferiour degree, and experience some
difficultyin copyingand describing; fail to impart a natural
expression and accuracyto his attempts at copying,and, with
self-e., caus., and compar., large or very large, will disdain
to copy others; prefer to strike out,and pursue,a path of his
own ; fail to adapt himselfto the customs of the society with
which he is not familiar ; and will be original, if not eccen-
trick, in his manner of thinking and acting : with secret,
only moderate or small, can never seem to feel otherwise
than he really does.
Othercombinations and descriptions maybe inferred from
those under large and very large imitât, reversed.
Small.—One having imitât, small, will have but little
ability to imitate or copy, and none to mimick ; fail in his
attempts to describe or represent, and will almost spoil a
story by attempting, in relating it,toact out the several parts ;
willnot .be at all natural in his gestures, and be a poor
penman, and experience great inconvenience from the defi­
ciency ofthis faculty.
The combinations and descriptions under imitât, moderate,
the influence of imitât, being still farther diminished, and
also the descriptions and combinations under imitât, large or
very large, reversed, or negatived, w'ill generally apply to
imitât, small.
Very small.—One in whom imitât, is very small, wrill
manifest none ofthe powfer in question, and be utterly unable
to imitate or copy.
Location.—Imitât, is located upon the twT
o sides of be-
nev. When large, it extends nearly as farback as the organ
of benev., and the coronal sutures, and causes a protuber­
ance, especially when marvel, is small, wrhich runs down­
ward from benev., and towards ideal, and construct.
23. MIRTHFULNESS.
That faculty of the mind which looks at things through a
ludicrous medium, and thus forms humorous ideas and
conceptions—a quick and lively perception of the ridicu­
lous and the absurd—facetiousness, pleasantry, humour,
wit,fun.
That certain conceptions, ideas, opinions, and occurrences
in life, are in themselves absurd and ridiculous, is a position
that will readily be admitted. This being the case, it natu­
Digitized by •OQle
MIRTHFULNESS. 173
rally follows, that the mind should be possessed ofsome pri­
mary power or faculty, the office*ofwhich is to detect such
absurdities, and expose their ridiculousness: and this office
is performed by the faculty of mirthfulness. Its legitimate
function seems to be to aid caus. and compar. in determining
what is true, by intuitively discerning whatever in thought
or argument, is ridiculous or absurd: and the fact, that
mirth, is located by the side of caus., and in the same range
with compar., caus., and ideal., appears to strengthen the pro­
bability of the correctness of this supposition.
Unless \ve admit, that there is some primary faculty, the
proper operation of which is to detect that which is absurd
and ridiculous per se, how are we to account for the prone­
ness of mankind, when attempting to show the fallacy, or
expose the sophistry, of arguments, to endeavour to make
them appear ridiculous ?—how account for the very common
method uf reasoning by the reductio ad absurdum, the prin­
cipal ingredient of which is, mirth. % The fact is, the mind
rests assured, that what is ridiculous, cannot be true; or,
that the enlightened operation of mirth, is always in harmo­
ny with the principles of reason and analogy.
The existence ofsuch a faculty as mirth., is rendered still
more evident from a consideration of that general tendency
of the human mind to make sport, tojest, joke, and seek for
somethingthat will raise a laugh ; and, also, from the utility
of such a faculty ; which may be inferred fromthe fact, that
indulgence in laughter, merriment, lively conversation, hi­
larity, and rational amusements, by promoting respiration,
digestion, appetite, and the circulation of the fluids, contri­
butes greatly to health and bodily vigour, and,likewise, by
imparting buoyancy and elasticity to the spirits, greatly aug­
ments the power and activity of the mind. The old adage,
“ laugh and be fat,” though quaint, accords both with tho
philosophy of human nature, and the experience of mankind,
and, moreover, with man’s phrenological developments. If,
then, according to the vulgar notion, “every sigh drives a
nail into ourcoffin,”this argument shows, that “every laugh
should draw one out.”
Religionists often consider the exercise of this faculty as
wrong, nay, as wucked; but the mere fact of its existence,
sanctions its exercise, and even makes its proper exercise a
virtue.
Large.—One havingmirth, large, has a quick and lively
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
174 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
# perception of the ludicrous, and a strong propensity to turn
singular remarks and incidents into ridicule, and to make
sport in various ways; laughs heartily at any thing humor­
ous or funny, and enjoys it with a keen relish.
One having mirth, large, with large compar.,destruct., and
combat., and caus. full or large, will mingle the sarcastick,
the pungent, and the bitter, with the purely humorous; and,
with compar. very large, hold the object of his displeasure
up to ridicule by comparing him to some most disagreeable,
or even loathsome, object; and be pre-eminent for his dry,
terse, witty, and appropriate comparisons, which will be al­
ways in point, and very laughable, and sting while they
tickle: with large or very large secret, and imitat., will
have a happy faculty of saying a witty thing in a peculiarly
witty and laughable manner, and,with large lang., compar.,
and event, added, can work upjhe feelingsofthe hearer by a
mostagreeable suspense, and mingle so much ofthe cunning
and the sly in his manner of expression, that his humorous
effusionswilltake admirably,andcreatealarge amountofreal
sport; will be able tomake fun of others without their seeing
it, and to keep those in whose company he is, in a roar of
laughter, and yet appear perfectly sober himself; to employ
insinuations and the double^entendre with effect; to hoax,
and quiz, and play his cunning pranks upon those around
him; will make very happy allusions to ludicrous incidents;
and be very quick and opportune in his mirthful sallies:
with compar. large, approbat. very large, and caus. only full,
may say wittythings, but will generally spoil them by laugh­
ing atthem himself: with large or very large adhes., appro-
bat., benev., hope., ideal., imitat., event, lang., and compar.,
will make a social, obliging, cheerful, companionable, and
pleasant friend, who will be full of good cheer, humorous
anecdote, and entertaining conversation: with large or very
large ideal., will express his mirthful effusions m a pecu­
liarly refined and delicate manner, and,with secret, large,
can say even a vulgar thing without giving offence: with
secret, and imitat. moderate or small, will have a fund of lu­
dicrous ideas,and a ready conception ofthe truly ridiculous,
but will generally fail to give them so ludicrous an expres­
sion as to make others laugh; will relish a joke, yet spoil
his own jokes, and those of others which he attempts to re­
late, by his defective manner of expressing them ; but, with
imitat. large or very large, even though secret, is only mod-
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
MIRTHFULNESS. 175
crate, will be able to express himself in so blunt, and dry,
and eccentrick, and even comick a manner, as to cause a
burst of laughter: withlang. large, and compar. very large,
will be a ready punster; have a happy talent of reasoning
by the reductio ad absurdum, or, bycarrying out,and apply­
ing, the arguments of his opponents in such a manner as to
make them appear supremely ridiculous: with hope large
or very large, will be both cheerful and witty, and mingle a
high now of spirits, with a happy talent for humour; but,
with hope only moderate or small, even when borne down
with melancholy, may say many witty things: with appro-
bat. and cautious, very large, and self-e. small, except among
his familiar acquaintances, will have too little self-confidence
to venture a joke, or will show so much fear in his manner
ofexpressing it as to spoil it: with ven. and conscien. large
or very large, will be frequently annoyed by the intrusion
of ludicrous thoughts, even upon solemn occasions; feel
guilty upon this account, and endeavour to banish them from
his mind, yet, in spite ofall his efforts, they will frequently
arise: with compar. and caus. large or very large, like
Franklin, will express important ideas, containing a great
amount of practical sense, in a witty manner, and imbody
many moral lessons, and much practical philosophy, in his
mirthful effusions; and, whenever he attempts to joke, will
be dry, sententious, pithy, and always in point, &c. “ Poor
Richard’s Almanack” furnishes an admirable illustration of
the combined manifestation of very large caus., compar.,and
mirth.; which combination is most strikingly exhibited in
all the busts of Dr. Franklin.
Very large.—Oue having very large mirth., will look
at almost every thing, us it were, in a ludicrous light; man­
ufacture fun out of almost every passing incident; find it
difficult to restrain thaf strong current of humorous emo­
tions which sweeps through his mind, and which will be
likely to burst forth, both upon proper and improper occa­
sions; and be unable to express himself without a strong
mixture of facetiousness with sober thought, and often car­
ry his jokes too far.
The descriptions and the manifestations of mirth. laTge,
modified by an increase of the power and the influence of
mirth., will apply tomirth, very large.
F ull*
—One having mirth, full, raajr have a good share
of humorous feeling, and enjoy the mirthful effusions of
Digitized by b o o Q l e
176 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
others, yet, without the aid of other faculties, will not him­
selfbe remarkably quick to turn a joke: with large or very
large destruct., combat., and compar., will be cogent and bi­
ting in his attempts at wit, yet his wit will sting more than
it will tickle, and be too harsh, and severe, and personal to
please, and, consequently, will often give offence; will, per­
haps, frequently indulge his teasing and pestering propen­
sity, yet his mirthful effusion will not be Characterized so
much by pure humour, as by satire and raillery; may be
eminent for his sarcastick and appropriate, if not ironical,
comparisons, yet the whole point and ludicrousness of his
jokes will turn upon the aptness of the comparison : with
hope very large, may havea large share ofglee and hilarity, a
cheerful, lively disposition, and a sprightly mind ; enjoy a fine
flow ofspirits, and be exceedingly fond of amusements, yet
the pure “attick salt’’ will not highly season his mirthful
effusions: with the assistance of other faculties, particularly
of imitat., iang., secret., hope, and compar., may express what
ludicrous ideas he has in so laughable a manner, act them
out so naturally, and accompany them with so much quaint­
ness, as to create a great deal of sport, and pass for a real
wit, yet he will owe more of this celebrity to his manner of
communicating his witticism, than to the witticisms them­
selves, or to the faculty of mirth; but, with secret., self-e.t
lang., individ., and event, only moderate or full, will be un­
able to give half the jest to his mirthful expressions which
is contained in his ideas, and thus be generally considered
as comparatively destitute of the faculty.
Moderate.—One having mirth, moderate, will generally
look at things through the sober medium of fact; seldom
succeed well in his attempts at wit; generally think of his
jokes too late to make them; and be more sober than jovial.
One having mirth, moderate, with compar., combat., and de­
struct. large, may be sarcastick, yet his jests will be too un­
kind and harsh to please; be more biting than humorous,
and often give offence: with approbat., combat., and destruct.
large, will be unable to take a joke in good part, and, when
rallied, frequently become angry: with self-e.and caus. only
moderate or full, approbat. large or very large, and secret,
large, will frequently labour under the false impression that
he is the object of ridicule when he is not; will be quite too
jealous upon this point, and easily offended by iokes* espe*
cially ifthey bear upon facts, &c. J ^
Digitized by ( ^ . o o Q L e
PERCEPTIVE FACULTIES. 177
Small.—One having mirth, small, will be likely to con­
sider wit .as either impertinent or silly ; will rather lack
sprightliness and vivacity in conversation and appearance:
be slow to take a joke, or to appreciate a witticism, ana
slower still to make or turn one : with ven. and conscien.
large or very large, and hope only moderate, will seldom
smile, and think it wicked to do so:
bat. and a je or very large, will be exti
to the lashes of ridicule, and the finger ofscorn, and greatly
tormented by.them; and be completely confused and routed,
when the battery of this organ is opened upon him.
Yery small.—One with this organvery small,will never,
in aqy perceptible degree, manifest the functions exercised
by this faculty.
Location.—Mirth, is located beneath the temporal ridge,
externally from caus., but a little lower, and nearly in the
range ofcompar., caus., and ideal.
ORDER II.—Intellectual F aculties.
These faculties constitute what is commonlytermed intel­
lect, as contra-distinguished from feeling, or emotion; and
have to do with three classes of things, the physical, the
metaphysical, and the abstractj or, in other words, with the
various conditions, relations, and qualities of things, and
with the physical, mental, and moral phenomena that are
produced by the operation of those first-principles or causes
by which these things and their respective phenomena are
regulated and governed, as well as with the principles them­
selves.
They consist of two genera. The first genus embraces
the Perceptive Faculties; and the second, the Reasoning
Faculties.
GENUS I.—Perceptive Faculties.
These bring us into communion with the external world
through the medium of the senses; perceive natural objects
and their conditions, physical qualities, and phenomena, and
some of their relations, and collect facts and statistical infor­
mation for the use of the other faculties.
Digitized by Google
178 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
SPECIES I.—The F aculties op the E xternal
Senses.
SENSATION OR FEELING.
Cognizance of the impressions made, and of the effects pro­
duced,upon the bodybythe contactofphysical objects with
the nerves of sensation.
Without a faculty of the mind whose legitimate officeitis
to perform this classof functions, the contact of physical ob­
jects with the body, could produce no sensation—without
this eTer-watchful sentinel of our corporeal frame—whose
organ (through the medium of the nerves of sensation) per­
vades tne whole external surface of the body, including the
intestinal canal—placed, as it is, to guard from external in­
jury, this delicate machine—to keep in tune this harp of a
thousand strings, its safety would be put in constant jeopar­
dy, and its organization, liable soon to be destroyed. Negli­
gence here, even fora moment, might expose the body to ir­
reparable injury, and render this citadel of life liable to be
taken by the first rude hand that should assail it. Hence
we infer the necessity of a distinct faculty whose exclusive
office it is to perforiti the function of sensation.
The principle, that such a contact ofphysical objectswith
the body as is calculated toinjure it, causes pain, which pain
warns us of danger, and that such a contact as is beneficial
to it, produces a pleasurable sensation, will generally hold
good, and bear the scrutinizingtest of experiment. To man,
then, as a corporeal being, this faculty is indispensable. It
is, in short, the natural instinct in him which intuitively
comprehends those principles that regulate the preservation
of the body from external injury, and is likewise in perfect
harmony with those principles.
The mediate function of the sense of feeling, is common­
ly called touch, of which the sphere of activity is very con­
siderable and important. The nerves of this faculty are
closely combined with those of voluntary motion; and the
two kinds together, may assist the functions of all the inter-
' nal faculties, as well the affective asthe intellectual. Hence
the reason why the nerves of feeling and the nerves of mo­
tion are so intimately connected with the organs of the af
fective and the intellectual faculties.
yGoogle
BIGHT. 179
This faculty is much more activein someanimals than in
others; and we find that the nerves of sensation are much
larger in the former than in the latter. In combination with
large cautiousness, this faculty produces that dread of pain,
which is often worse than the pain itself, and that instinctive
shrinking from corporeal suffering, which it endeavours to
avoid.
* For a more extensive analysis of this faculty, as well as
of the other external senses, the reader is referred to the ex­
cellent remarks upon the subject in Dr. Spurzheim’s work
upon Phrenology.
SIGHT.
Vision—power of taking cognizance of the appearance of
physical objects by means of the optical organs.
There exist in nature certain optical law's, the object of
which is to furnish animated beings with a knowledge of
the physical world by means of the eye and its accompany­
ing-apparatus. Mankind intuitively understand and apply
these laws or principles of vision, and see just as well with­
out any theoretical or scientifick knowledge ofthem as with.
Since, then, this power ofvision is possessed intuitively, and
is exercised by a given portion of the brain, the induction is
obvious, that men, and, indeed, all animals that see at all,
possess an innate, primary power, the proper function of
which is to see.
The fact that new-born infants possess the power of vision
but imperfectly, doesnot at all militate against the foregoing
conclusion, for, it is well known, that, atthebirth, their eyes
are in an imperfect state, and are not abletoreceive, modify,
and transmit strong impressions of light, until they are
about six weeks old. Hence, it is only by degrees that the
eye of a child becomes fit to perform its natural function
with full power; but, as soon as the powders of this organ
are fully matured, a child can see, and without either habit
or education, just as well and as accurately as the greatest
philosopher. The same aigument will apply toall animals
whose organs of vision are imperfect at the birth.
It is, moreover, a singular fact, that that portion of the
brain in which the optick nerve terminates, or. in phrenolog­
ical language, the organ of seeing, is found, in different an­
imals, to beproportionate to their powerof vision—is found,
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
180 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
for example, many times larger in the eagle and the hawk,
than in other animals of a corresponding size in which the
power of vision is much weaker.
Defects in noticing and recollecting the form and colour
of objects, are often attributed to the power of vision, when,
in fact, they belong exclusively to imperfections inthe facul­
ties of form and colour. For example; one whose sight is
perfectly good, and who is deficient in the faculty of form,
but possessed of a large organ of colour, often finds it ex­
tremely difficult accurately to ascertain by the eye, and to
recollect, the configuration of an object, when, at the same
time, he gets a distinct idea of its colour; but, with form
large, and colour small, can readily judge of its shape, but
not cf its colour. Many cases illustrative of these points,
have fallen under the observation of the authors, some of
which will be stated in another part of this work.
Allusion is here made to these facts as clearly showing
the necessity of the mind’s possessing the faculties of form
and colour, as distinct from that of vision, in order perfectly
to perform some of its ordinary functions.
HEARING.
Power of taking cognizance of sounds by means of the au­
ditory apparatus.
It cannot be denied, that the principles of acousticks ex­
ist in nature, nor that all animals possessed of an auditory
apparatus, are capable ofperfectly applying these principles,
unaided by habit or instruction: and hence it follows, that
the faculty of hearing is a primary power of the human
mind.
As has been shown in regard to the sense of vision, that
seeing is its sole function, so can it be proved with reference
to the auditory faculty, that hearing is its only function. The
common and prevailing opinion,that an individual possesses
the faculty of tune or melody of sounds, and the gift of
speech, in proportion to the acuteness and perfection of his
auditory apparatus and the excelienceof his voice, can easily
be shown to be erroneous. The question may be put to the
most superficial observer, whether all those wrnohave equal­
ly good hearing and fine voices, possess an equal talent for
musick, or equal fluency ofspeech. Indeed, theauthors are
prepared to prove, by many facts that they have witnessed,
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
HEARING. 181
that many individuals whose voices and hearing are excel­
lent, but who are defective in the organ of tune, are not ca­
pable of distinguishing one tune, or one note, from another.
How is it, that, among birds, the song of the male is far more
melodious than that of the female? Can it be, that the au­
ditory or the vocal apparatus of the one is less perfect than
that of the other%
But, that the sense of hearing cannot produce musick, is
evident from the fact, that the auditory apparatus is excited
solely by sounds from without, whereas, musick must pro­
ceed from an internal impulse given by a primary faculty of
the mind, for it is impossible that the first musician could
have previously heard the sounds which he produced. It is
well known, too, that musicians who have losttheir hearing,
continue tocompose. Singing birds, also, when hatched by
strange females, instead ofemploying the notesof their adopt­
ed parents, sing naturally, and without any instruction, the
song of their species.
In regard to the faculty of speech, we know that the nat­
ural language of every animal, is that which is peculiar to
its species, and that its perfection does not particularly de­
pend upon the perfection or imperfection of its faculty of
hearing. A duckling reared by a hen, does not adopt the
language of the hen; nor does the young robin hatched by
the bluebird, learn the chirp of the bluebird. A kitten rais­
ed with a dog, does not learn to bark; nor does a lamb rais­
ed among cattle, learn to low: but each animal naturally
adopts the language of its species.
So,in artificial language, asthere is no natural connexion
between the names or sounds employed to denote certain ob­
jects, and the things signified, it is evident, that, in the for­
mation and use of words, some other faculties of the mind
are more intimately concerned than the sense of hearing.
When we pronounce the word book,the sound suggests tothe
hearer the idea of the thing signified; but it would be ab­
surd to suppose, that either his auditory apparatus, or his
organs of speech, conceived the idea of a book. The con­
ception was formed by his internal faculties alone. The
reason why the monkey cannot talk, is not because it is
destitute of the faculty of hearing, or of the proper organs
of the voice; but because it has not the faculty of language,
and certain other internal faculties, which are necessary to
Digitized by Google
the formation of words, and the application of them to the
various conceptions of the mind.
Thus it isobvious, that the function of the sense of hear­
ing, isconfinedtothe productionofimpressions called sounds;
and thatthe production ofmelody and language, dependupon
other intellectual faculties.
TASTE.
Gustatory sensation ‘produced by food, andt alsot by other
substances.
This faculty differs materiallyin its function from that of
alimentiveness, to which it seems to be but the handmaid.
Alimentiveness produces hunger, and a relish for food, and,
without the assistance of taste, would be but a blind instinct,
producing merely the desire to feed; while taste, acting as
the caterer for alimentiveness, is capable of being exercised
upon substances which can, and which cannot, be converted
into food, and ofselecting the one, and rejecting the other.
That this faculty, in its ordinarystate in civil society, does
not, under all circumstances, inform us what is, and what is
' not, adapted to the nourishment and health of the body, will
readily be admitted; but that, unpampered by luxury, and
unperverted by cookery, it would be capable of doing so, is
highly probable. Among the lower order of animals—in
beasts, birds, and fishes, where it is unperverted, it secures
this object to perfection, abundant evidences of which are
furnished by natural history. Why, then, should it not, in
its naturalstate, be equally perfect and serviceable in man?
Analogy would certainly give an affirmative answer to this
interrogatory.
SMELL.
Olfactory sensation—cognizance of the scent or odour of
objects.
By means of this faculty, the material world acts upon
man and animals from a distance. When detached, odor­
ous particles come in contact with the olfactory nerve, they
inform us of the existence, and some of the qualities, of the
bodies from which they are separated. Taste has been de­
scribed as the purveyor of alimentiveness; and smell may
be denominated the pioneer of taste, and assistant handmaid
182 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED. *
Digitized by L.ooQle
INDIVIDUALITY. 183
of alnhentiveness; for it often acts as the guide to taste in
selecting food, and frequently decides upon what is good,
and what is bad, without the assistance of taste.
But the office of smell is by no means confined to the se­
lecting of food. Its function decides upon the agreeableness
or disagreeableness of the sensation produced by all odours
thatare waftedtothe olfactorynerve; and here its officeceases.
It maybe remarked, however,thatthepleasurable or opposite
sensation produced byan odour, depends much upon the habit
of the individual, or the training of the faculty; for odours
that are delightful to some individuals, are unendurable to
others. Some persons,take great delight in scenting them­
selves and theif clothes with musk, burgamot, cologne, &c.;
whilst to others, these smells are an abomination.
Some of the lower animals excel man in the acuteness of
their smell, as their olfactory apparatus is larger.
Odours act powerfully upon the brain. Hence,the appli­
cation of stimuli to the olfactory nerves, often revives sensi­
bility in cases of suspended animation.
MOTION.
The existence of a mental faculty, the exclusive office of
which is to superintend and direct the action ofthe muscles,
has not yet been demonstrated, but is considered as quite
probable.
SPECIES II.—Observing and K nowing F aculties.
For a description of these faculties, see page 50.
24. INDIVIDUALITY.
P ow er of noticing single objects as separate existences, and
of considering each as a distinct identity and individu­
ality— desire to see and know, and to examine objects—
curiosity to see things— power of observation.
The material world iscomposed ofsingle objects, arranged
and combined into one grand whole; but without a faculty
whose function it is to individualize these objects, and take
cognizance of them one by one as distinct and separate ex­
istences and entities, mankind would perceive them only as
a confused and indistinct mass, and be unable to distinguish
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
184 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
onesinglethingfromanother. It isdoubtful, indeed, whether«
without such a faculty, we could form clear notions, or dis­
tinct ideas, upon any subject.
This faculty givesthe desire, accompanied with the ability,
tobecome acquainted with objectsas mere existences, without
reference to their qualities, such as form,size, colour, weight,
&c., or to their modes of action; and, inasmuch as it leads
to observation, it becomes an important element in a literary
taste and talent.
Large.—One having individ. large, has a great curiosity
to see and examine whatever comes within the range of his
observation; is deeply interested in the mere examination of
individual objects, aside from their causes, uses, relations,
and conditions; is quick to see what is passing around him,
and allows fewthingsthat comewithin the range ofhis vision,
to escape his observation; is a close and practical observer
of men and things; and, by associating his thoughts and
arguments with some visible object,and by thus giving them
a distinct identity and individuality, imparts to them a pecu­
liar clearness and definiteness,and seeming tangibility.
One having individ. large, with event, also large or very
large, will not only be quick to see what is passing around
him, but, also, have an excellent memory of what he has
seen ; with large or very large compar. added, will not only
have the ability of comparing things together, and noting
wherein they resemble, or wherein they differ from, each
other, but will also take great delight in this exercise; with
goodadvantages,will possessa rich fundofgeneraland partic­
ular knowledge;a ready command offacts, and a great fond­
ness for reading and study, and havethe requisitetalent and
disposition to become a superiour natural scholar; yet, to
become a finished scholar, he must also possess form, local.,
ideal., and caus. large or very large: with large, caus.,
will first notice things in their individual capacity, and then
investigate their relations of cause and effect, their design
and utility,and the effectsthey are capable ofproducing; or,
in other words, will be a close observerofthings, and, also,
stronglyinclinedtophilosophize uponthem;and,withthe rea­
soningorgans verylarge,willobserveclosely,yet reason more
than observe; have excellent ideas, and also impart to them
a clearness and tangibility that will render them easy to be
understood, and thus greatly add to their power; and, with
the addition of large form, will be an enthusiastick and a
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
INDIVIDUALITY. 185
successful investigator of human nature, and generally form
correct opinions of the character and talents of men by their
physiognomy, conversation, deportment, &c., and can suc­
cessfully apply himself both to details and general princi­
ples: with ideal, large or very large, will regard objects
as clothed with peculiar splendour, natural beauty, high per­
fection, &c.
Very large.—One having individ. very large, will pos­
sess an unconquerable desire to see, see, s e e —whatever itis
possible for him to see; before he is aware of it, will take
up things and look at them, even when propriety would re­
quire him to leave them untouched; havea prying curiosity
to become acquainted with things as mere existences; can
hardly rest satisfied without thoroughly exploring and sur­
veying every thing within the reach of his observation ; is
a real looker, and even given to gazing, or, perhaps, to sta­
ring : with caus. only full, looks much more than thinks, and
is so much devoted to the examination of objects, that his
poweT of abstract thought is thereby weakened, or, at least,
frequently interrupted by the operation of this faculty; finds
it difficult to confine his attention to abstract contemplations,
because it is so frequently arrested by physical objects; will
be given to personification, and, with compar. large, to mét-
aphor, simile, dfcc.,and be apt to consider mere abstract ideas
or notions, such as virtue, vice, justice, reason, &c., as per­
sonal identities; may readily learn things,but will not pos­
sess an unusual share of depth of intellect, &c. •
The additional manifestations and combinations of indi­
vid. very large, may be inferred from those described under
individ. large, the compar. of the reader being allowed to
supply the increased influence of individ.
F ull.—One having individ. full, with the reasoning or­
gans large or very large, will reason much more than ob­
serve, think more than look, and examine objects chiefly as
connected with their Causes, relations, effects, qualities, uses,
&c.: with moderate event., will be liable to forget things,
and have but an indifferent memory of facts; will manifest
some curiosity to examine objects, and see whatever comes
in his way, yet not be at much pains merely to gratify his
looking propensity, and will not be distinguished, either for
his observing powers, or for the want of them.
Moderate.—One having moderateindivid., will besome­
whatdeficientin his powersofobservation; haverather indis*
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
186 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
tinct ideas of things, and, describethem rather m a summary
and general,than in a particular, manner, and, with the rea­
soning organs large or very large, be much more engrossed
with general principles than writh their details, and more in­
terested in investigating the causes,reasons, and relations of
things, than withtheir physical qualities.
Small.—One having individ. small, will fail to observe
what is passing around him ; take little interest in the mere
examination of objects; have little of that prying curiosity
to see and handle things, which is imparted by large indi­
vid. ; often have but indistinct notions of objects which he
has seen ; fail to identify particular things, be vague in his
descriptions of them, andfind attention to details and the mi­
nutiae of business, unpleasant,and not suited tothe character
of his intellect.
The descriptions and combinations mentioned under indi-.
vid. large, reversed, or read with a negative added to them,
will apply to individ. small.
Very small.—One having very sm all individ., will re­
gard things, as it were, in a mass ; see nothing which is not
forced upon his attention ; seldom regard objects in their in­
dividual capacity, and, with marvel, small, may be led to
doubt even his own personal identity.
Location.—Individ, is located at the root of the nose,
and when large, it separates the eyebrows from each other,
and,causes them, as they approach the nose, to arch ; but.
when small, the eyebrows nearly meet, and are nearly hori­
zontal.
The organ of individ. is generally much larger in children
than in adults ; which goes far to show, that it is highly
useful in the process of forming ideas: indeed, aided by
compar., whose office itis tocompare things together, and by
event., which remembers what is observed and compared,
{and both of which are found highly developed in children,)
it constitutes the great medium of intellectual converse with
the material world, and assists us in treasuring up most of
the knowledge which we acquire.
25. FORM.
That mental power which takes cognizance o f the shape or
configuration of objects, and recollects them.
A Mr. Gibson, of Washington, D. C., suggested to one
of the authors, the idea that the superfices, or shape, of ob­
Digitized by LooQle
FORM
. 187
jects, consists of nothing more than angles connected by
straight or curved lines, and that these constitutetheform of
objects; and, moreover, that the facultyof form observesand
recollects these angles, and size, the length of the lines con­
necting them. This view of the subject, is, at least, ingen­
ious, and worthy of examination.
That no material object can exist without possessing the
property of form or shape, is a self-evident proposition;
and without some mental power the function of which is
to convey to the individual a distinct idea of the forms of
different objects, no such idea could possibly enter the mind,
any more than could the idea of the colour of an object
without an organ of vision and a faculty of colour, or that
of a savour or an odour without the faculty of taste or of
smell. To the perfection of the human mind, then, some
faculty whose office it is to take cognizance of the various
forms of objects, becomes absolutely necessary.
The nature and operation of this faculty, may be inferred
from the principle which provesthe necessity of itsexistence.
Large.—One having form large, finds it easy to observe
and retain forms; readily catches the distinct appearance of
things, and recollects them for a longtime; generally at­
tributes certain shapes to*particular things which he hears
described, and even to immaterial objects, &c.
One having form large, with individ. large, both notices,
and recollects, the faces and countenances of those whom he
sees, and thus is enabled to know a great many persons:
with individ. only moderate, does not notice the shape or the
physiognomy of persons with sufficientaccuracy to obtain a
clear idea oftheir appearance, but, when his attention is once
arrested by any thing special, and he has obtained a distinct
impression of its looks, he seldom forgets it: with individ.
and local, large or very large, when he seesa person a second
time, will generally be abletoidentifyand locate him, though
he may be unable to call his name, and, with event, large,
will not only recollect that he has seen him before, but
ofien, where he has seen him, and also many incidents which
transpired at the time, and yet may feel mortified that he
cannot call him by name: with imitat. very large, will be
able to copy from memory: with large or very large indi­
vid., size, local., order, and compar., will haveall the talent re­
quisiteforbecoming agoodnaturalist,botanist,aratomist, and
chymist, and, with ideal, also large or very large, will expe*
Digitized by LooQle
18b PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
rience the greatest delight in the pursuit of these branches
of science: with construct., size, and imitat. large or very
large, will be able to give the proper shape to the articles he
may make, &c.: with size large, can read writing that is in­
distinct, and, with individ. also large, easily learn to read cor
rectly, and seldom miscal a word.
To the mechanick, the artist,the naturalist, the anatomist,•
the botanist, and all those in publick life who have to trans­
act business with many individuals, a large development of
this faculty, ig not only of the greatest utility,but even indis­
pensable to success.
Very large.—One having form very large, obtains, as
it were, by intuition, a distinct impression of the form of the
objects he sees; will very seldom forget the shape or the ap­
pearance of things he has onceseen; if he onee fairly looks
at a person, will almost always know him when he meets
him again; be able to recognise individuals even by a par­
tial view of their face, by seeing them at a distance, &c.;
can readily discover family resemblances, and alsodetect dif­
ferences in the looks of persons and things; frequently re­
collects the name of a person by remembering its appear­
ance upon paper; can readily detect typographical errours,
and, with lang. large, easily learn to spell correctly;can see
things that are very minute or indistinct, or at a great dis­
tance, and, with size and individ. large or very large, can
read very fast and very correctly, and at a distance which
would enable ordinary form and individ. hardly to perceive
that there were letters: with large or very large local., will
be able to study botany, mineralogy, geology, anatomy, and
all thenatural sciences with remarkable easeand success,&c.
The additional descriptions and combinations under form
large, modified by an increase of the quality imparted by
form, will apply to form very large.
F ull.—One having formfull, after seeing an individual
several times, and becoming somewhat familiar with his
looks, will be able to recollect his physiognomy and appear­
ance, yet cannot be considered as remarkable for this power;
will have a respectable memory of faces and countenances,
yet a long interval will weaken, or, perhaps, nearly obliter­
ate, his recollection of them, especially of those with whom
he is but partially acquainted; upon meetingthose whom he
has before seen, will have an indistinct recollection that he
has seen them, but will beless certain and distinct in his re­
Digitized by b o o g i e
189
collection, than if it had been produced by large or very
large form.
One having form full, with individ. large or very large,
will have a very good recollection ofthe countenances, form,
and gait of persons, and partly because ho is sogreat an ob­
server; but, with individ. only moderate, will have but an
indifferent memory of such things, partly because he will
fail to notice them so particularly as to obtain a clear and
fixed impression of their shape, appearance, &c., and partly
because his memory of those which he does observe, is not
remarkably tenacious.
Moderate.—One having moderate form, retains only an
indistinct and confused memory of persons, animals, and
different objects, and must see them several times in order to
know them again, especially after a considerable lapse of
time; is often quite uncertain whether he has, or has not,
seen individuals whom he meets; is capable of making but
moderate progress in the study of the natural sciences; can­
not clearly distinguish forms at a distance, nor certainly
identify a person or an object until he is near it, or has a
full view of it; will make many mistakes in reading; find
it difficult to read hand-writing, especially if it is not very
plain, &c.
The additional manifestations and combinations of form
moderate, may be inferred from a negative of those under
form large.
Small, or very small.—One havingform sm all or very
sm all, will be exceedingly troubled by forgetfulness of per­
sons ; may meet an individual one day, and even converse
with him, and not recognise him at a subsequent meeting,
even though it may bevery soon after: with approbat. large,
will feel mortified on account of thisdeficiency, and endeav­
ourtonotice and recollect shapes, yet his efforts will be una­
vailing ;in reading,will miscalmany words, especially if the
Erint is fine or indistinct, and hardly be able to decipher
and-writings; with individ. large, will see those whom he
chances to meet, but will seldom notice the expression of
their countenance, appearance, &c., and, therefore, not often
recollect them; but, with individ. small, neither sees nor no­
tices those whom he meets; so that, even those with whom
he is quite intimate, are sometimes not recognised by him.
The descriptions and combinations under form moderate,
modified by a diminution of the power of form, and also
FORM.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
190 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
those under form large and very large, reversed, will apply
to form small or very small.
Location.—Form is located upon the two sides of the
crista galli,,and, when large or very large, causes great
breadth between the eyes, and sometimes turns them out­
wards j but, when small, they more nearly approach each
other.
26. SIZE.
That mental power which takes cognizance o f m agnitude
and proportion— ability to ju dge o f length, breadth^
height, depth, distance, djc.
Since no material object can exist without occupying
space, it necessarily follows, that m agnitude or bulk is a nat­
ural property of matter: and hence it also follows, that the
human mina would be defective, were it not possessed of a
distinct faculty the proper function of which is to distinguish
this property of matter. Without such a faculty, man could
not distinguish the difference between a mountain and a
mole-hill, a river and a rill, an oceanfind a fountain.
That the faculty of form cannot execute the function at­
tributed to size, is clearly shown bythe fact,that there exists
no proportion between the shape of an object and its magni­
tude or bulk., The configuration of certain things, may be
the same, buttheir size widely different. Nature would be
at fault, therefore, did she not endow man with a separate
faculty adapted to the cognizance of each ofthese properties
of matter.
Again, the place, position, weight, and colour of objects
are conditions or properties each demanding a separate fac­
ulty of the mind tojudge of it.
Large.—One having size large, will be able to judge
very correctly of the height, length, distance, middle,centre,
magnitude, &c., of objects; to determine with considerable
accuracy, whether given points are on a water level; to
judge very nearly of the weight of animals, men, and
other objects by their size, ascertained merely by looking at
them; by a cast of the eye, can readily determine about how
much is, or can be, enclosed in a certain space; whether a
given thing i3 in an exact perpendicular or horizontal posi­
tion, and will, in this way, always measure objects with a
view to ascertain these and similar points; will judge quite
Digitized by LooQle
accurately m regard to the centre of a circle, the size of an
angle, and proportion generally, &c.
One having size large, with form and construct, large, will
have a very correct, mechanical eye, by which he will be
often guided instead ofby measuring-instruments; with imitat.
and local, added, can draw by the eye mathematical and
other figures with great accuracy ; decidecorrectly upon the
qualities of proportion and magnitude, and impart these
qualities to his drawings and mechanical operations; and,
with weight added, is naturally a first-rate marksman, and
will need comparatively but little practice to make himself
quite expert with fire-arms, &c. In Col. Crocket, these or­
gans were all developed in a remarkable degree.
Very large.—One having size very large, will possess
the powers described under the head of size large, in an ex­
traordinary degree—be able to form his judgment of the
magnitude, distance, &c. of objects withsurprising accuracy,
and, as it were, by intuition; seldom need to employ instru­
ments to measure with, because he will be able to measure
so accurately by the eye, and calculate size correctly where
no instrument can beemployed; seemingly without an effort,
will be able to detect even a slight deviation from a hori­
zontal, a perpendicular, or a rectangular position, and be.
greatly annoyed by it; and not only perform all those func­
tions described under size large, but execute them with as­
tonishing accuracy and facility.
The combinations under size large, will hold good when
appliedto size very large, except that the degree of the pow­
er of the organ, must be much increased.
F ull.—One having size fu ll, will possess a respectable
share of the power described under size large, yet wjll not
be distinguished forthis talent; will manifests deficiency of
this faculty only when he is called upon to measure either
long distances, or short ones with considerable precision;
and possess a sufficient share of this power for all ordinary,
practical purposes.
Moderate.—One having moderate size, will be able, by
practice, to measure short distances by the eye, especially
m thosethings with which he isacquainted, yet will not be at
all distinguished for hisaccuracy in doing it; findconsiderable
difficulty in comparing different magnitudes, and will have
but an indifferent, mechanical eye.
Small.—One having size small, will be decisively defi
SIZE. . 191
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
492 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
cient in the power and qualities described under size large;
be very inaccurate in his judgment of distance and propor­
tionate bulk; and entirely fail in bis descriptions and com­
parisons of the size of objects.
The descriptions and combinations under size large and
very large, when reversed, or read with a negative, will ap­
ply to size small.
Very small^—One having size very small, will form ex­
tremely inadequate ideas of proportionate size, and, indeed,
of size generally, and hardly understand the meaning ofthe
term.
Location.—Size is locatedat the internal termination of
the eyebrows, and develops itselfon the two sides ofthe root
of the nose. When it is large, it causes the internal portion
of the eyebrow to project,or shelve, overthe internal portion
of the eye nearly an inch; but, when moderate or small, it
is nearly perpendicular from the inner corner of the eye to
thatoftheeyebrow. By inserting the thumb into the angle
formed by the arch of the eye and the nose, whenthe organ
is large or very large, and weight only moderate, a protu­
berance will easily be observed, in shape somewhat resem­
bling a bean.
27. WEIGHT.
Intuitive perception and application of the principles of
specifick g ra vity— ability to judge of the force and resist-
ance of bodies, and of equilibrium— to preserve the cenr
ire of g ra vity, fyc.
The whole physical world (including man, of course) is
under the influence of the laws of attraction or gravitation.
By their all-pervading influence, these laws bind together
the whole material universe. They hold the sun, the moon,
the stars, and the planets intheir orbits as they perform their
respective journeys through the trackless fields of space;
cause the winds to blow, the waters to flow, the seasons to
return, and chain to the earth all things that rest upon its
surface. They also bind together those innumerable parti­
cles of matter which enter into the composition of all the
different material substances that exist; and but for their op­
eration, these various particles of matter which compose the
universe, could never have been held together for a moment,
Digitized by •OQle
WEIGHT.
but must have been promiscuously scattered and afloat
throughout the illimitable tracts of immensity. But for the
operation of these laws, the earth would still be “without
form and void,” and no animate or inanimate thing would
have existence.
By some philosophical writers, a distinction has been
made between the attraction of cohesion, and the attraction
of gravitation ; but, unless it can clearly be shown, that
there is a difference between that primary power which
brings the particles of matter together, andthat which holds
them together, this distinction between the two kinds of at­
traction, will prove a distinction without a difference, and,
consequently, not a proper one. Can such a difference be
shown ? or can it be shown, that the principle or power
which brings together the larger masses of matter, differs
from that which binds together the particles of the smaller
masses ?
The object of these remarks, however, is not so much to
prove, or disprove, a difference between the laws of cohesion
and the laws q{ gravitation, as to throw out the general idea,
that for every set of laws in nature, and their accompanying
phenomena, wT
ith which man hasto do, he requires a distinct
faculty of the mind, adapting him to these lawsand phenom­
ena ; and that, therefore, if the attraction of cohesionis gov­
erned by one set of principles, and the attraction of gravita­
tion, byanother, each of these sets requiresa separate faculty
of the mind.
The faculty of weight has to do, mainly, with those prin­
ciples which relate to the specifick gravity of bodies, in
judging of the consistency, density, softness, hardness, light­
ness, and heaviness or resistance of bodies—qualities which
cannot be decided upon by the mere senseoffeeling ortouch.
Large.—One having weight large, will seldom lose his
balance, even in difficult positions, and the instant he has
'ost the centre of gravity, be warned by this faculty, and di­
rected to the muscular effort requisite to regain it; seldom
slip or fall; readily adapt himself to the laws of specifick
gravity generally, and apply them to the accomplishment of
his designs; can sling a stone, pitch a quoit, &c., very near
the mark; will naturally and intuitively understand thelaws
of momentum, staticks, and resistance; if much accustomed
to riding on horseback, can be thrown only with great diffi­
culty ; will easily learn to skate, and take great delight in
193
Digitized by Google
194 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
the exercise, and seldom fall upon the ice; with great
ease, can balance things which those with weight small, can­
not, and perform other feats of a similar nature with appa­
rent ease and intuition; will walk upon a pole or a spar
stretched across a stream, the frame of a building, a fence,
&c., without falling, or fearing to fall, especially if selfe. is
large ;and, with construct.,form,and caus.largeorvery large,
will intuitively understand the power and the principles of
machinery, andskilfully apply them to effect mechanical op­
erations ; is capable of becominga good machinist,and, with
large or very large size, individ., local., and calcu. added, a
first-rate engineer, or superintendent of machinery; can, at
once, comprehend and apply the principles of hydraulicks,
hydrostaticks, pneumaticks, &c., and judge of powers and
projectile forces with uncommon facility and accuracy.
Very large.—One having very large wT
eight, will pos­
sess the powers described under weight large, but in a much
higher degree, so much so as to stand out alone, and excite
the astonishment of those who witness his skill:—and all
this he will be able to do seemingly by intuition, and with­
out effort.
F ull.—One having weightfull, will apply the principles
of weight, balancing, equilibrium, and resistance, with suffi­
cient facility and correctness to get along with the ordinary
business of life, but will not be remarkable for this quality;
aided by considerable practice, may possess those powers
described under the head of weight large, yet they will be
the result of practice more than of nature, &c.
Moderate.—One having weight moderate, where only a
moderate share of this faculty is required, as in the case of
walking, running, &c., may manifest little, if any, deficiency
in this respect, yet will not possess those powers described
under the head of weight large; will be liable occasionally
to lose his balance, to stumble, and, perhaps, fall, and to be
thrown from a skittish horse; to experience dizziness, espe­
cially over running water, or from heights; will not be
abletothrow aquoit, stone, orother missile,justhigh enough,
or low enough,justfarenough tothe right or left,andwith ex­
actly momentum enough to hit the mark, &c. One having
weight moderate, with large or very large imitat., form, and
construct., will be abletouse toolswith great skill, yet willbe
no machinist, and will not readily and intuitively understand
the operation andthepowers ofmachinery, &c. The probabil-
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
ity is, that shooting running or flying game, depends more
upon weight than upon any other faculty.
Small.—One having sm all weight, will be decisively de­
ficient in those qualities described under weight large and
very large ; can be easily thrown from his balance, or from
a horse j frequently stumbles, and, with large or very large
cautious., will fear to trust himself where he is liable to fall,
because he will feel unsafe, &c.
Very small.—One having weight very sm all, will be
extremely deficient in all those functions which belong to
this faculty, and be liable to be thrown to the earth by slight
causes.
Location.—Weight is located adjoining to size, and a
little internally from the middle of the arch of the eye. It
is generally moderate or small in the American head.
28. COLOUR.
A bility to perceive and recollect the various colours of ob-
jecls, to compare them, and judge of the harmony or dis­
cord of their different shades when mingled.
In speaking of vision, it was remarked, that the eye could
perceive the rays of light, and be agreeably or disagreeably
affected by their various modifications or colours, but, that
an ability to conceive the relations of coloirs, and compare
them, to judge of their harmony or discord, and remember
their teints, must depend upon another faculty of the mind;
otherwise, all painters who possess equally good eyesight,
and who have had the same amount of practice, would be
equally happy in colouring: but this is by no rtieans the
case.
The organ of colour is laTger and more active in women
than in men, and in somenations, and some individuals, than
in others. Indeed, the authors have seen many persons who
were possessed of excellent powers of vision, but who were
utterly incapable of distinguishing (except black and white)
one colour from another. Many other similar casesare also
on record—all of which go to prove, that nature, in perfect­
ing her own handiwork, has seen fit to bestow upon the hu­
man mind, a primary faculty whose sole function it is toper­
ceive, andjudge of, colours.
Large.—Ono having colour large, will readily notice
and remember, and be able to compare, differentcolours, and*
COLOUR. 195
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
196 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
even their various shades and teints; will often notice tbs
colour of a person’s eyes, dress, hair, &c.; manifest uncom­
mon taste and skill in selecting, arranging, comparing, and
mingling colours, and, as foras a natural talent for applying
them is concerned, he will excel: with large or very large
ideal., will be highly delighted with splendid paintings both
as regards their colours and the composition,or im agination
andtaste displayed inthem, and,with large formand imitat,
can easily le^urn topaint, and that with uncommonskilland,
with very large form, size, imitat., and construct., aided by
practice, may be an excellent portrait or miniature painter;
and, in examiningand purehasing articlesofdress, furniture«
&c. will havea particular reference to their colour.
Very large.—One having colour very large, noticesthe
colour of objects as soon as he does any other quality, and
recollects it as long; is a natural and original colourist, and
capable of painting with extraordinary skill and facility:
with compar. and ideal, large or very large, is a first-rate
judge and critick ofcolours, and has a passionate fondnessfor
employingthe pencil or brush; and is highly delighted with
rich and lively colours: with caus. only full, and approbat.,
individ., and ideal, large or very large, will be excessively
fond ofgayly coloured and gaudy articles ofdress and furni­
ture, and even run into extravagance in this respect: with
very large form, and large or very large ideal., construct.,
imitat., size, order, and individ, is capable of becoming a
portrait painter of the first class, and, with event, and corn-
par. also large, a historical painter; of using the brush
with wonderful effect; and of transferring to canvass both
the conceptions of his imagination, and real characters.
F ull.—One having colour^/, by considerable practice,
wrill beable to distinguish colours readily and accurately, yet
this talent will be the product of art more than of nature, or,
rather, of nature greatly improved by culture; will notice
colours that are striking, or that are very well or very ill ar­
ranged, yet will seldom pay much attention to those that are
ordinary: with ideal, large or very large, may display much
tasteand good judgment in mingHng and arranging colours,
and, with imitat. large, be able to learn to paint well, yet the
mere colouring will form a less important feature in hispro­
ductions ; will gaze with enthusiasm upon a splendid paint­
ing, but will be more interested in theim agination and taste
displayed in it, than in the mere colouring; but, with ideal.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
COLOUR. 197
moderate, will not be at all partial to pictures or paintings,
and only an indifferent judge of colours.
Moderate.—One having moderate colour, will not take
much interest in colours, unless something special calls his
attention to them, and will seldom notice or recollect them;
can seldom describe persons by the colour of their eyes,
dress, &c.; and can learn to select and match colours only
with considerable practice and effort: with ideal, large or
very large, though he may be highly delighted with splendid
paintings, will generally bemore gratified with some oftheir
other qualities and beauties, than with the merearrangement
oftheir colours;may distinguish one colour fromanother, but
will not be able to distinguish their nicer shades and teints.
Small.—One having small colour, will very seldom no­
tice the colour of people’s eyes or hair, or of any article of
their dress,and eventhough familiar with them,will beunable
to describe them by these indications; will seldom notice, or
take any interest in, colours, regarding them all as amount­
ing to about the same thing; will find great difficulty in dis­
tinguishing their different shades, and, perhaps, between the
different primary colours; occasionally mistake one for an­
other, and be comparatively insensibletothebeauty produced
by the arrangement and blending of different colours.
The additional combinations and descriptions of colour
small, may be inferred from those under colour large or very
large, reversed, or read with the addition of a negative.
Very small.—One having colour very small, even
though his eyesight and his ability to distinguish form and
other qualities of objects, may be excellent, will be able to
form little or no idea even of the primary colours, and, much
less, of their shades: can perceive very little, if any, differ-»
ence between the colours of differentcloths, or even those of
the prism or rainbow, as an indistinct, whitish appearance
will seem to him to characterize the whole; and can distin­
guish between those objects only that are black or white, or
bordering upon this appearance.
Location.—Colour is located under the arch ofthe eye­
brow, a little externally from the middle, and between the
organs of weight and order. In ascertaining it, there is
occasionally some difficulty in consequence of the thickness
of the bone that covers it.
Digitized by LOOQle
198 FIIRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
29. ORDER.
System— sense of physical arrangem ent— desire to have
things in their places.
“ Order is heaven’s first law.” As far as our feeble powers
are capable of ascertaining, the whole universe is found to
be a perfect system of things. Perfection of arrangement
and perfect order characterize every part of it, the most mi­
nute details not excepted. In the marshalling of “the heav­
enly hosts,” and appointing to each its time and place, in
limitingthe growth ofthe various kinds cf vegetation to differ­
ent portions of the earth’s surface, in the arrangement and
structure of the constituent parts of even a flower, in the
formation of every portion of the human body, the system-
atick order displayed, is wonderful and perfect. In short,
throughout the whole kingdom of nature, every thing, has
assigned to it a particular place, and can be expelled from
that place only by doing violence to the system of nature.
Can we suppose, then, that the infinitely wise Architect
of the universe, would institute such a harmonious and
beautiful arrangement, without adapting wan to itby creating
in him an ability both to appreciate and practise it? Indeed,
we are conscious of possessing, to a great extent, a delight
in order, and a desire to practise it.
This, then, brings us to the inquiry, whether this class of
functions is exercised by a faculty devoted exclusively to
this office or not. The obvious answer is, that, inasmuch
as the other classes of the mental functions, are each per­
formed by as many separate and innate mental powrers, this
class is also exercised by a distinct, primary faculty.
This faculty has nothing to do with the logical arrange­
ment of ideas, (if we except the physical signs employed to
express them,) the structure of an argument, or the taste dis­
played in expression; nor does it singly produce taste in
aress. At a recent, publick examination, one of the authors
observed of an individual, that he was remarkable for his
order and arrangement, but defective in taste and niceness:
and this proved to be the fact. He also knows a lady who
is uncommonly neat and tidy in her dress, and one of the
nicest of housekeepers, and yet she possessesonly moderate
order, is often troubled to find her needle, thread, gloves, &c.
Such instances are even quite common—the first kind being
Digitized by Google
accompanied with only moderate ideal., and the last, with
this organ large or very large.
Large.—One having order large, with local, large or
very large, will have a particular place for every thing, and
every thing in its place; instead of leaving his tools, books,
papers, clothes, and whatever he has occasion to use, where
it happens, he will return them to their respective places;
can readily find what he wishes, provided it has not been
disarranged by others; will be systematick in his business;
not only precise himself to keep things in place, but partic­
ular to have those under him, do the same; and, with ideal,
also large, be exceedingly annoyed by disorder, and thus
possess an indispensable requisite for regularity, correctness,
and despatch in whatever he undertakes.
One having large order, with large combat and destruct.,
will be rendered as impatient and as angry by disorder, as
by almost any thing else, and thus manifest much more pee­
vishness of disposition, and appear more passionate and
harsh, than he otherwise would: with ideal large, will be
always*cleanly, and tidy, and very nice and particular about
his person; greatly annoyed by a rent in his garments, or a
spot upon them, or bytheir being soiled,notclean, or their fit­
ting badly; bya long oeard, disordered hair, or adirty or disor­
dered room; or by anything irregular, contracted, or broken,
even though it may have been repaired, &c., and will often
overdo in order to serve this faculty; and, with ideal, very
large, will be even fastidious in these respects, and take
many an unnecessary step on this account; but, with ideaL
onlymoderate,though hemaybe systematick,and haveaplace
for every thing, and every thing in its place,and alwaysable
to lay his hand on such things as he uses,and about as quick
in the dark as in the light, yet will be neither nice nor par­
ticular in his personal appearance; will, perhaps, seem to
others to have his things in utter confusion, and yet, what
will appear disorder tothem, will be order tohim: with time
large, will fulfil his appointments punctually, and have a
time, as well as a place, for every thing.
Very l a r g e .—One having order very large, will know
just where to lay his hand, both in the dark and in the light,
upon any article he wishes to use, provided no one has dis­
placed it; when heputsoff his clothes, or has done using his
things, he lays them away in the particular places assigned
to them; in all he docs, isperfectly systematick and precise •.
ORDER. 199
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
£00 PHRENOLOGY ILLVSTRAYED.
aftd, in the matter of order, is what istermed 4
4old-maidish,*
instantly notices the least disarrangement, and isannoyed be­
yond measure, if not rendered perfectly miserable, by con­
fusion, disorder, &c.
One having order very large, with adhes. large or very
large, will love the company of his friends sincerely, but be
so much disturbedby one thing and another about their per­
son, their furniture, house, &c., and by the disarrangement
they cause him, that he will almost dread to visit, or receive
a visit from, them, and, on this account, frequently feel vexed
at those he really loves; in the selection of his friends, will
have a special reference tothisquality in them, and beunable
to endure the company of the slovenly or the negligent:
with combat, and destruct. large, will frequently be angry at
those who leave things out of their places,and severely rep­
rimand, and even scold,them, though they may be his best
friends;and,with ideal,large or very large, willbe soextreme­
ly fastidious and over nice as to causea great deal of trouble
tothose around him, and be even a trouble to himself and a
slave to this faculty; and, to gratify it, will frequently do
much more than there is any need of doing, or than his
strength will bear; and, if a woman, will scrub her finger­
nails off; and the nail-heads from her floors; worry her ser­
vants to death ; scour the paint off the ceilings and mould­
ings, the silver ofT the door-knob and knocker, the brass off
the andirons, the tin from her pans, and the hoops from her
churn; and still scrub and wash, and wash ana scrub, till
she scrubs thepatience out of her husband, and washes the
threads out of his linen.
The descriptions and combinations which apply to order’
large, modified by an increase of order, will apply to order
very large.
F ull.—One having order full, will be pleased with ar­
rangement, and, if brought up to habits of systemand order,
will seem to possess a high endowment of the qualities de­
scribed under order large, yet much will depend upon his
education and his ideal.; will possess enough ofthis faculty
to get along well in business, yet not enough to make him
fhstidious, or cause him to make any great sacrifices upon
this account; and generally preserve order, partly from an
innate love of it, and partly from the necessity and utility
of ft.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
The combinations under order large, modified bv a dimi­
nution of the power of order, will apply to order full.
Moderate.—One having order moderate, though, per­
haps, a little disturbed by disorder, and rather fond ofseeing
things in place, will not possess enough of this faculty to
prompt him to much effort in order to keep them properly
arranged; will generally leave his things at loose ends; be
less systematick in his business than would be to hisadvan­
tage; may preserve something like system and arrangement
in his affairs, but will do so more from the necessity, than
the love, ofthem: writh ideal, large or very large, thbugh ho
will be neat and nice in his person, dress, &c., will leave
things where it will trouble him to find them, often forget
where they are, and manifest taste and cleanliness without
system or arrangement: with self-e., combat., and destruct
large or very large, will possess enough of this faculty to
command others to preserve order, and will even scold them
for allowing disorder, but will not keep things in order him­
self and, perhaps, disarrange the things of others, as well
as his own.
Small.—One having order small, will be apt to leave
things where he happens to use them, or anywhere else,
either in, or out of,their proper places, and, consequently.be
greatly troubled to find them again when he wants, them,
thus subjecting himself to much inconvenience and delay;
will operate without system, and, ofcourse, without despatch,
and thus consume much time in accomplishing but little:
but, notwithstanding, will fail to amend, or to feel troubled
with disorder, or to appreciate the importance of order and
system; and, with time only moderate, will seldom appor­
tion his time to specifick objects, and generally be behind­
hand in fulfilling his engagements, plans, and appointments.
The descriptions and combinations under order large and
very large, reversed, will apply to order small.
Very small.—One having order very small, will be al­
most insensible to the beauty and utility of systematick ar­
rangement ; will scarcely noticevhedifferencebetween order
and disorder, and leave whatever he may have occasion to
use, scattered about in utter confusion.
Location.—Orderislocatedunderthearch oftheeyebrow,
at the external corner of the eye, and beneath tlje origin of
the superciliary ridge. When it is large or very large, the
external angle of the lower portion'of the forehead, appears
9*
ORDER. SOt
Digitized by Google
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
projectingand full, the eyebrow, atthe union of the temporal
ridge, arched and elongated, and sometimes sharp; but,
when it is moderate Or small, the external portion ofthe eye­
brow will appear straight and shortened. The thickness of
the bone in this portion, increased by the temporal ridge,
causes an occasional mistake in deciding upon the size of
this organ.
m
30. CALCULATION.
Intuitive perception of the relations of numbers and pro­
portions— ability to reckon figures in the head— numerical
computation.
In addition to the other qualities and conditions of things
which exist in nature, we naturally attachtothem numerical
relations, such as are denoted by numbering them with the
signs one, two, three, and so on ; adding them together; as
fourand three make seven ; multiplying them ; as four times
three are twelve, &c. : and, for the purpose of facilitating
such calculations, mankind have instituted arbitrary signs,
by combining which, in various ways, they are enabled to
express these numbers with great accuracy and brevity.
Since, then, these relations expressed by numbers, actually
exist in nature, it is a fair induction to suppose, that the hu­
man mind requires a primary faculty the sole function of
which is to comprehend them, and apply them to the prac­
tical purposes of life.
That the mental faculty which perceives, comprehends,
and applies these numerical principles, is intuitive, and de­
voted exclusively to this class of functions, is moreover evi­
dent from thefact, that extraordinary, calculating powers, are
oftenfoundtobepossessedbyindividualswhosetalents,inother
respects, are quite ordinary ; whilst, on the contrary, men of
extraordinary reasoning and other faculties, are frequently
found to be deficient in their computing powers. Many
Striking cases of both kinds have fallen under the obseTvar-
tion of the authors, some of which will be stated in the
chapter uponfacts.
Large.—Onehaving calcu.large,willbequick tocompute
figures, and be able to perform numerical and arithmetical
calculations, even in his head, with accuracy, facility, and
despatch, and will delight in the study of figures, and be
*n expert accountant.
yGoogle
CALCULATION.
One having caicu. large, with cana, and compar. also
large, will be able toseize even the abstract relations ofnum­
bers with intuitive ease, and to solve difficult problems in his
head, as well as on the slate, and will succeed well in the
higher branches ofarithmetick and mathematicks ; bequick
to detect errours in the calculations of others, but seldom
make them himself, and excel both in the reasoning, and the
figuring, parts of arithmetick; and be able to study with
success, the higher branches of mathematicks; with large
order, individ., event, and imitat. added, is capable of be­
coming a good accountant and book keeper, and of casting
up accounts in his head, which others would be obliged to
do upon the slate; and, with local, and construct, added, will
possess all the natural talents requisite for the study of sur­
veying, geometry, algebra, mensuration, navigation, astron­
omy, conick sections, &c.; will be deeply interested, and
greatly delighted, in studies of this description; possess a
remarkable talent for prosecuting and practising them; and
be a natural mathematician : with eaus. only moderate, and
individ., local., and form large, though he may be good in
arith'/r :tick, and quick infigures, will be poor m the higher
branches of mathematicks.
Very large.—One having caicu. very large, will intui­
tively comprehend, and be able,at once, to solve, almost any
arithmetical problem proposed; go through with difficult
and abstruse arithmetical problems with great easeand perfect
correctness; cast up accounts, even though they may consist
of several columns of figures, and substract, divide, and
multiply with several figures at a time; calculate chiefly in
his head without a pen or pencil, and even without the aid
of rules; seize, by intuition,and with perfectcertainty, upon
his conclusions, and be impatient at the errours and dulness
ofthose,with only moderate caicu.: with caus., compar., indi­
vid.. form, size, and local, large orvery large, willbea natural
mathematician of the first order, and be unrivalled for his
mathematical and astronomical powers; can solve,in his head,
the most abstruse questions even in the higher branches of
mathematicks, and will be passionately fond of these stud­
ies ; can perform, with wonderful ease, both the figuring, and
the reasoning, parts of these studies, and will excel both in
the principles and the details of mathematical science; be
great in the demonstrations, and in the principles involved,
and, w¿th marvel, moderate or small, believe nothing whioh
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
he cannot, see, or see mathematically dem onstrated: with
these last-named organs only moderate or full, may be, like
Zera Colburn, unrivalled in his arithm etical or calculating
powers, and readily solveall numerical questions propounded
to him; yet will be unskilful in those branches of the matb-
ematicks which demand the higher powers of reason and of
thought, &c.
F ull.—One having fu ll calcu., though he may be re­
spectable, will not be extraordinary, for his quickness and
correctness in performing numerical calculations; and,
though practice may make him rather expert in the ordinary
routine of calculations, yet he will not succeed remarkably
well out of this line; will not be able intuitively to grasp
the results of complicated sums or problems; may succeed
in the pursuit ofarithmetick, but will be obliged to study in
order to succeed well; and, with a high degree of culture,
may become, not only expert, but even eminent, as an arith­
metician and accountant.
The influence of calcu. full in combination, may be infer­
red from the combinations under calcu. large and very large,
modified by a diminution of the influence of this faculty.
Moderate.—One having calcu. moderate,from habit and
much practice, may, perhaps, become respectable as an ac­
countant, and in arithmetical calculations generally, yet will
not readily come at the result of new and abstruse questions:
be obliged to perform his calculations with his pen or pencil
in his hand, and progress slowly and carefully, and then
tnake an occasional mistake;and, upon the whole, will dislike
numerical calculations and the study of arithmetick: with
very large caus. and compar., though he may be highly de­
lighted withthe reasonings and the demonstrations contained
in the mathematicks, will be by no meanspartial tothe mere
figuring part, and will make his numerical calculations
chiefly by the help of reason, and the cause and effect by
which they are governed; though he can at onfce see the
force and application of the rules, and comprehend the prin­
ciples of arithmetick and of mathematical science generally,
will consider figures rather a drudgery than a delight; with
large or very large individ., form, size, local., imitat., aud
construct, added, will be naturally a first-rate mathematician,
but a poor arithm etician; be passionately fond of the study
of geometry, surveying, mensuration, navigation, astronomy,
&c., in case his attention be called to them, and capa­
204
Digitized by k; e
LOCALITY. 205
ble of excelling m them, yet, in every thing in figures dis­
connected with reason and demonstration,his talents will be
inferiour.
Small.—One having calcu. small, will have a strong
aversion to figures; succeed in them but poorly, and do that
only with great labour j be slow, and often incorrect, in cast­
ing up accounts; can add, substract, divide, and multiply,
only by rule, and with his pen or pencil in his hand; and,
though he may go through a mechanical course of arith­
metical calculations, will not advance rapidly, nor without
great effort. One having calcu. small, with large or very
large individ., event., lang., ideal., and compar., and caus.
only full, will be exceedingly fond of reading, of poetry, of
works of fiction, and of polite literature, and, with large or
very iarge form, size, ana local added, of the study of natu­
ral history, geography, botany, chymistry, &c., yet dislike
arithmetick exceedingly.
Very small.—One having very small calcu., will beun­
able to perceive numerical relations, or even to perform sim­
ple, arithmetical calculations; will find extreme difficulty
even in common adding and substracting, multiplying and
dividing, and be almost unable to count.
Location.—Calcu. is located externally from order, and
a little lower, at the external termination of the arch of the
eye.
31. LOCALITY.
Cognizance of the relative position of objects—recollection
of the looks of places—knowledge of the geographical
position of things, the points,of the compass, djc.
Location, or relative position, like form and size, enters
into the constitution of things. That a material substance
should exist without any location, or relative position with
respect to other things, is both inconceivable and impossible.
Hence the necessity of some faculty the exclusive function
of which is to perceive and apply thisproperty to the objects
of the physical world; and the same train of argument
which proves that form, size, weight, or any of the other
faculties, is a separate power of the mind, likewise proves
that local, is also an innate, primary mental faculty.
Large.—One having local, large, will retain, for a long
time,a clear and distinctimpression ofthelooks ofthe places
he has seen, and, with imitat. and lang. also large, be able to
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
2 0 6 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
give a correct description of them ; can form correct idea*
of places which he has not seen by hearing them described ;
will seldom lose himself, especially if he has seen the place
before, and easily retrace his steps; can calculate, with un­
common accuracy, the relativepositionsandbearings ofdiffer-
ent places ; find his way in the dark with ease ; is very fond
of travelling, of visiting places, and of viewing natural
scenery, and, with acquis, only moderate, and ideal, large,
will spend his money veryfreely for this purpose ; but, with
acquis, large, and ideal, only moderate or full, will still seek
to gratify this propensity, though at a cheaper rate; will
travel in indifferent and cheap conveyances, and take up with
inferiour fare: with self-e., approbat., and ideal, large or
very large, and acquis, only moderate or full, will be even
extravagant in his travelling’expenses, and always journeÿ
in the best style he is able to reach: with ideal., imitât., coto-
par., and lang. large or very large, will recollect places, and
be able to give a correct and a picturesque description of
scenery, roads, &c. : with large or very large inhab., Will
call to mind, with vivid and intense feelings of delight, the
mountains, hills, dales, fields, groves, streams, &c. which
he was wont to gaze upon in his childhood or juvenile
days, and have a strong desire to revisit them : with evept.
full, or even deficient, will often recollect incidents by ré*
merabering the place in which they transpired, and also
what he has read, by calling to mind its location upon the
page, and will discover uncommon tact in finding particular
passages : with large or very large individ. and form, will
notice, and also recollect, the houses, trees, rocks, and other
objects near the road which he hastravelled, and not only be
very fond cf the study of geography, and make rapid ad­
vances in it, but, with large or very large form, size, and
imitât., be able to draw, with great accuracy and skill, maps,
sketches of natural scenery, &c. ■ ;
Very large.—One having local, very large, with large
or very large form, will retain in his mind, a distinct and
perfect recollection of the appearance of nearly everyplace
he has ever seen, and, with large or very large lang., givea
lively and correct description of each, and, with event, also
large, be excessively fond of reading travels, voyages, &c.-;
can recaí to his mind, not only the general aspect of places
which he has seen, but will distinctly remember the geogra­
phy, roads, scenery, rocks, houses, and' other things, and,
Digitized by boogie
LOCALITY.
ateo, the position even of insignificant objects; will have a
finetaste andtalent for pursuing the studyof geography, ge­
ology, &c., and will be likely to break from every restraint
to indulge his roving, strolling desire.
The combinations and descriptions under local, large,
modified by an increase of the power and desires imparted
by local., will apply tothis faculty very large.
F ull.—One having local, full, will be able to recollect
places with considerable distinctness, yet not be remarkable
for this power; will understand the relative bearings of
places, and the position of objects, and, unless a long absence
has obliterated the impressions which they have made upon
this faculty, will seldom be troubled by a deficiency of it;
yet he will not distinctly recollect objects which he may pass,
unless, from some cause, they particularly arrest his atten­
tion ; may notice and recollect important things, yet be apt
to forget little things : with large or very large individ., will
have a strong desire to travel in order chiefly to gratify his
strong propensity to examine physical objects, and partly to
Éee places, &c.
The combinations and descriptions under local, large,
modified by a reduction of the influence of local., will gen­
erally apply to this faculty full.
Moderate.—One havingmoderatelocal.,will not pay par­
ticular attention to the location of objects, nor form or retain
very distinct notions of the aspect of places, roads, &c.,and,
consequently, be often at a loss to find such places as he
wishes, to go a second time to obscure places, or return by a
given road; will frequently lose his way, especially in cities
and forests, and sometimes experienceconsiderable inconven­
ience and delay from the want of a stronger developmentof
ihis faculty. One having local, moderate, with individ. and
ideal, large, will appreciate the beauties of splendid natural
Scenery, yet will not retain a clear and correct impression of
the appéarance and beauties which produced the delightful
impressions: with very large inhab. and only full ideal., in­
divid., and hope, will seldom go from home unless compelled
by urgent business, and will then see, but little on his jour­
ney, and dread the fatigues of travelling, and long to be at
hisjourney’s end : with acquis, large, will dwell pathetically
upon the expenses incident tojourneying : with individ. and
form only moderate or full, will have but a very imperfect
idea of the places which he has seen, and, if living in a
207
Digitized by Google
city, frequently pass his own door without knowing it; and,
with only full lang. and imitat., will be utterly incapable of
giving even a tolerably correct description of places which
he may have seen many times.
S m a l l .— One having local, small, will find it very diffi­
cult to recollect, or return to, places ; often lose his way, es­
pecially in woods, cities, or streets; canbecomefamiliar with
places only by seeing them many times; will formonly con­
fused and incorrect ideas of the geography of a country, or
the appearance and localities of places described to him ; be
often uncertain and incorrect as tothe points ofthe compass;
consider travelling a burden, rather than a pleasure ; have
but little curiosity to see different places, &c. One having
local, small, with form and individ. small, will seldom notice
places,and then notdistinctly recollect their appearance ; will
seldom observeor recollect such objects as he may pass upon
the road ; and fail to remember a road which he may have
often travelled, and also to find his way back, &c. : with form
large or very large, will frequentlyrecollect the countenances
ofpersons,but will beutterlyunabletolocate them: with large
or very large event., will recollect distinctly that he has read,
or heard of, certain occurrences, yet will not be able to call
to mind the place in which they occurred, or where he read
them, &c.
The combinations and descriptions under local, moderate,
modified bya reduction ofthe powderof local., and, also, those
under local, large, reversed, will apply to this faculty small.
Very small.—One having local, very small, will find
it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to form any clear
ideas of the relative position of objects, to keep the right
road in travelling, or to follow the same road back when
returning on his journey; be greatly perplexed to find
any particular spot, tre$, jock, or other object, even on
the second or third visit to,it; and be very apt to lose him­
self, especially in the woods, in a city, &c. ; and find his
abilities in the exercise of this faculty, directly the opposite
of his in whom local, is large or very large.
Location.—Local, is, located directly over size and
weight, and nearly above tèe internal orbit of the eye. It
extends diagonally in the direction of mirth. The frontal
sinus sometimes increases the apparent size of this organ ;
but this subject will be more fully presented in another por­
tion of the work.
208 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by Google
EVENTUALITY. 209
SPECIES III.—Semi-perceptive Faculties.
These faculties perform a class of functions intermediate
between those exercised by the perceptive, and those by the
reasoning, faculties j and the location of their organs cor­
responds with their character. The perceptive facultiestake
cognizance of m aterial objects and their various physical
properties, such as their form, size, weight, colour, &c. ;
whereas, the semi-perceptive are of a more subtle nature,
having to dowith facts,and the various phenomena produced
by physical objects, and form, as it were, a stepping-stone to
the reasoning organs. Eventuality, for example, takes cog­
nizance of, not physical objects themselves, but their actions,
and the incidentsand events thus produced; time, ofthe par­
ticular period in whichthese events occur; language, of the
vocal sounds employed to name these objects; and tune, of
the melody of sounds produced by them : and thus, both the
perceptive and the semi-perceptive faculties are employed as
the subordinate agents of the reasoning faculties, furnishing
them with materials to scan, digest, and reflect and reason
upon. Hence it would appear, that, in the mental economy,
the functions of the semi-perceptive faculties, are no less im­
portant than those of the perceptive, especially if we consid­
er, that they constitute as essential a part of the intellectual
machinery when viewed as a whole.
32. EVENTUALITY.
M emory of events—power of calling to mind those circum­
stances, occurrences, incidents, historical facts, âpc., which
have previously come to the knowledge o f the individual.
It has been shown, that to notice the existence of material
objects and their various qualities, requires a set of faculties
whose various functions correspond with thç>se ascribed to
individuality, form, size, and the other perceptive powers ;
and that this requisition is the imperative demand of nat­
ure—which must be answered. But if is not only true
that things exist, and possess various properties, but equally
so that they act. If, then, the human mind requiresfaculties
whose proper functions aretonoticethe existence, conditions,
and properties of material substances, it follows, that it also
requires a faculty whose function it is to take cognizance of
Digitized by b o o d l e
210 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
their various action*, and other phenomena. In phrenolog­
ical language, the faculty that performs this portion of the
mental operations, is called Eventuality.
The importance of such a faculty as eventuality, in the
mental economy, as well as ofindividuality, and, indeed, of
all the other perceptive and semi-perceptive faculties, may be
farther illustrated by noticing some points in the process of
forming ideas. In order successfully to apply the principle
of causation, the antecedent cause and the consequent effect
must necessarily both be before the mind at the same time,
otherwise a comparison of them would be impossible. In
the language of phrenology, then, individuality notices and
recollects the physical object that acts, or the procuring
cause, and eventuality, the consequent action, or phenomena
produced ; and then comparison and causality compare, con­
trast, analyze, and draw deductions from, the materials thus
furnished by individuality and eventuality: and this consti­
tutes thinking or reasoning. The same principle applies to
the modus operandi of individuality and eventuality with
benevolence, adhesiveness, and all the other mental faculties.
Again, this view of the subject is strengthenedby a refer­
ence to the intellectual developments,and the intellectual ad­
vancement, of children. In them the organsof individuality
and eventuality early appear largely developed and exceed­
ingly active; and almostasearly,comparison; andsoonafter,
causality. Individuality, aided by sight, isfound tobe very
busy in noticingobjects; eventuality, equallysoin remember­
ing all their various actions and other phenomena; compar­
ison, in combining and comparing these things or notions
brought forward by the first two; and causality, in prying
into their nature and reason: and thus the process of form ­
in g ideas, or of thinking, goes foiward at a rapid rate. And
this process is still farther extended and perfected by thepro­
gressive increase and activity of the organs of form, size,
colour, calculation, &c.
Large.—One having event, large, will have a clear, a
distinct, and a retentive memory of what he sees, hears, or
reads; according to his advantages, will possess a mind well
stored with historical and scientifick facts, with the news of
the day, and narrative and historical information generally;
will seldom be troubled with forgetfulness, or with an indifi
ferent or indistinct recollection of circumstances, incidents,
&c.; will treasure up a rich fund of anecdotes upon such
Digitized by b o o g i e
EVENTUALITY. 211
subjects as are interesting to the other stronger faculties, or
of such of them as have come within the range of his
knowledge; and, with large lang. added, in relating them,
will not iail to mention all the particulars; and, with large
concent, also added, will present them all in their proper or­
der; but, with concent, moderate or small, will fail to connect
the several circumstances which compose a story so as to
give it unity ; will frequently omit important particulars, or
state them in a wrong connexion, and thus create confusion,
and lessen the effect of his narrative: with individ., lang.,
and compar. large, will show a marked partiality for read­
ing and study, and succeed well as a general scholar; will
be able, also, to make a good use of what information he
may possess, and have a happy faculty of communicating it
to others: with large or very large ideal., individ., form, size,
local., and compar., and full, large, or very large caus., will
possess a literal passion for study, reading, the pursuit of
chymistry, mineralogy, geology, geography, botany, natural
history, and every thing pertaining to the treasuring up of
facts; according to his advantages, will be a superiour schol­
ar; will allow nothing to divert him from literary and scien-
tifick pursuits; will be even enthusiastick, remarkably suc­
cessful as a student, and have a great amount of circumstan­
tial information upon matters and things in general; with
large lang. added, can converse sensibly and fluently upon
almost any subject; with full concent, also added, will have
a happy talent for compiling and arranging facts, for investi­
gating subjects, and attending to any complicated operation;
but, with caus. only full, will appear to know a great deal, yet,
when held down to a close, logical or metaphysical process
of reasoning, will betray a deficiency of mental strength and
power, and of logical acumen: with compar. large, will
notice, recollect, and be able to compare, the operations of his
own mind: with lang. very large, will be able to repeat con­
versations with great accuracy and clearness.
Very l a r g e .—One having very large event., will pos­
sess a remarkably clear, distinct, and retentive memory of
events and transactions, and even of all the minute, and
seemingly unimportant, circumstances connected with them;
seldom allow any thing to escape his recollection ; have at
command more facts than he can manage to advantage; have
an insatiable desire to learn all that is to be learned; be
given quite too much to narration, and thus frequently
Digitized by L.ooQle
212 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
weaken his arguments; make a short story long, and a long
one, very long, by relating all the little particulars: with
caus. and compar. only full, will have &great fund of infor­
mation, which, however, will notbe well digested; be rather
a bookworm than a deep thinker; attend much more to facts
and details than to general principles, and attempt to prove
his positions rather by narrating facts, than by logical infer­
ences : with large or very large individ., will see all that
passes around him, and rememberall he sees, and thus know
a great deal, &c.
The descriptions and combinations under event, large,
modifiedby an increase of the power of event, will apply to
this organ very large.
F ull.—One having event, fu ll, will have a respectable
memory of incidents, and a distinct recollection of those oc­
currences to which his attention has been particularly di­
rected, yet will seem tobe deficientin his knowledge ofthose
things which have not made a distinct impression; when he
has an occasion to adducefacts, will recurtothemwithtolera­
blecorrectness and facility, and seldom manifest a striking de­
ficiency in this respect: withcaus. and compar. large or very
large, will generally be able to command and collecta suffi­
cient amount of facts by which to substantiate and illustrate
his arguments, but will reason rather than narrate ; regard
phenomena chiefly in connexion withthose principles which
produce them; and remember generals much more than
particulars :with lang. and imitat. large, willbeable to relate
anecdotes in a happy style, yet, with only moderate lang.,
imitat., and concent., will relate them very poorly, and have
a better memory in reality than he seems to have; will re­
collect the substance and the main features of whatever has
passed before his mind, &c., better than the particulars.
Moderate.—One having event, moderate, will be Jess
distinct and certain in his recollection of incidents and cir­
cumstances than one with large event.; haverather a general
than a particular memory of facts and events, and, with
caus. and compar. large or very large, may recollect distinct­
ly the points of an argument, and the substance of what he
hears or reads, yet will deal more in general principles than
in phenomena, and argue much more than n arrate; find
considerable difficulty in summing up, and in calling to
mind particular incidents, or in going into details.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
The descriptions and combinations of full event, dimin­
ished, will generally be found applicable to event, moderate.
Small.—One having event, small, will often fail to recol­
lect incidents and facts, and, consequently, to do important
things which he wishes to accomplish; have a poor, indis­
tinct, and confused memory of occurrences of which he has
heard or read, and even of those which have fallen under
his own observation; will seldom, if ever, enter into tiie'par­
ticulars, and have great difficulty, and little success, in at­
tending to details; find it hard to command the knowledge,
or apply the talents, he really possesses ; can learn things in
general only with great labour and application, and even
then, with caus. and compar. large, will learn principles
much sooner than phenomena; and be often greatly troubled
to call to mind facts which he wishes to employ.
The descriptions and combinations under event, moderate,
modified by a diminution of the power of event., and also
the descriptions and combinations under event, large or very
large, reversed, or read with the addition of a negative, will
describe this faculty small.
Very small.—One having very small event.,will forget
almost every incident or phenomena which he has seen,
heard of, or read of; beextremely confused and uncertain in
attempting to call to mindalmost any occurrence, and suffer
very great loss and inconvenience from a deficiency of this
faculty.
Location.—Event, is located about the middle of the
foréhead. When the surrounding organs are large and
event, only full,there will be anevidentdepression justabove
individ. and between the two lobes of local., which will re­
sult rather from the size of the surrounding organs, than
from an absolute deficiencyof event. In children,theorgan
is generally large or very large, and gives a full and spher­
ical form to this part of the forehead, while the correspond­
ing depression often observable in men, is an evidence of a
deficiency of it. The tenacious memories ofchildren, com­
pared with the more obscure memories, and palpable forget­
fulness, of men, furnish both a strong proof of the truth of
phrenology, and a happy illustration of the faculty in ques­
tion.
EVENTUALITY. 213
Digitized by Google
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
214
33. TIME.
Cognizance of succession—that mental power which no
iiccs and recollects the lapse of time, and the relative
distance of time, and order of succession, in which events
transpire.
The phenomena of succession, or the lapse of time, com­
pose a part of that system ofthings towhich man is adapted,
and enter into that condition in which he is placed on earth.
Day and night follow each other in quick succession, and
approaching seasons tread upon the heels of their predeces­
sors, and, in their turn, retire to make room for their suc­
cessors. Generation after generation passes away, and
sleeps with those beyond the flood. The present instantly
becomes the past; and, were it not for this wonderful ar­
rangement, there would be but one eternal, monotonous now,
(a thing impossible, and, to us, inconceivable,) without any
change or succession, either of birth or death, or days, sea­
sons, years, or ages.
The wisdom which devised this arrangement of chrono
logical succession, is too obvious to need comment; and the
necessity of some faculty in man by which he is qualifiedto
perceive this state of things, and enabled to adapt himself to
it, is equally apparent. In deciding upon this point, how­
ever, we are not left to the guidance of any uncertain a pri­
ori inferences, but, by the unerring evidence of facts, are
assured of the existence in the human mind, of such a fac­
ulty as time.
In common with all others who have inquired attheshrine
of nature touching this subject, the authors have seen many
individuals who, seemingly without an effort, are able to tell
the year, and even the day, of almost every birth, death, or
particular event which has come to their knowledge; how
old every person is whose age they have ever learned ; what
time every house in their neighbourhood or town was erect­
ed ; and the exact time of the occurrence of nearly all their
village affairs and businesstransactions. They havealso seen
hundredsofothers who, withoutconsultingthe family record,
could not telleither their own ages, orthose oftheir brothers
and sisters, or even those of their own children. Though
they might have a distinct recollection ofcertain occurrences,
they could never recollect when they took place.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
TIME. 215
On the other hand, they know a gentleman who is accus­
tomed to relate many anecdotes, and who is always parties
lar to mention the year, month, and day of the month, and,
sometimes, even the time of the day, on which the event re­
lated, took place: and Ihis is done because it is perfectly
easy anti natural for him to do so—his organ oftime is very
large. They were recently in company witha lady in whom
this organ was decisively small, and who, when asked how
long she had been married, replied, with perfect honesty,
“about three years j” but, upon reflection, she concluded it
was only two. Not quite confident, however, of her correct­
ness, she appealed to her husband,and ascertained that it was
only one: and even then she could not tell the month in
which their marriage took place. They know persons who
can waken at any time of night which they may choose to
appoint, and also tell very nearly the hour of the day with­
out the aid of the sun or atime-piece; and others, again, who
are almost entirely unconscious of the flight of time even
when awake. For these effects there must be some cause;
and, since this power ofobserving and recollecting the chro­
nological relations of events, the time occupied by sounds,
&c., is foundtobe proportionate to a certain development of
the brain, the induction that time constitutes an innate and
primary mental power, seems to be perfectly logical.
Large.—One having time large, will notice and remem­
ber very accurately, the relations of time in which certain
occurrences stand with each other, or how long one thing
happened before or after another; without the aid ofa time­
piece, be able to tell very nearly what time of the day or
night it is; can waken from sleep at such an hour, or, per­
haps, minute, as he may wish; will generally be in season,
recollect his appointments, and, if possible, fulfil them ; set
apart certain days or periods for doing particular things, and
be likely to perform them at the appointed time; be regular
at his meals, and in all his business operations, &c.; and
excellent in chronology.
One having time large, with large event., will have a dis­
tinct recollection both of particular circumstances, and, also,
of the chronological order in which they occurred, and, with
large calcu. added, will have a correct knowledge of the
chronology and dates of such events as have come to his
knowledge, the ages of persons, &c.: with large or very
large Jang., ideal., and compar., will pay particular attention
Digitized by L,ooqle
216 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
to therhyme and measure of poetry, and be exceedingly an
noyed if either isimperfect; and, with only full caus. added,
will look more to the drapery of poetry than to the more
enduring qualities of sense and jsubstance; if he attempt
to compose poetry, may make good rhymes, yet his produc­
tions will be ephemeral and gaudy, rather than substantial
and excellent; but, with large caus. added, will excel in sen
timent, measure, style, rhyme, and power of thought : with
tune large, will keep the beat in musick, and be very fond
of dancing, and, with imitât also large, willeasily learn any
particular figure, and keep the step perfectly, &c.
Very large.—One having very large time, will possess
a wonderfully accurate and precise memory of*the time
when certain things occurred, of dates, ages, business trans­
actions, &c. ; how long one thing happened before or after
another ; the state of the weather upon certain days ; the pre­
cise period of historical events ; and, in short, will be a real
chronologist, to w’hom a reference will be had by all who
know him forthe purpose of ascertaining the chronology of
events, &c. ; and will manifest, only in a still higher degree,
nil the qualities described under time large.
The combinations and descriptions under time large, mod­
ified by an increase of the power and manifestations oftime,
will apply to time very large.
Full.—One having time full, will have a respectable
memory of dates, and yet, with event, large, be much more
correct and certain in regard to the minute particulars ofthe
occurrence itself, than of the precise time ofthe occurrence;
will ordinarily be punctual to his appointments, and seldom
discover a deficiency of this faculty, and yet,seldom manifest
this power in a very high degree.
The descriptions and combinationsoftime large, modified
by a diminution of time, will apply to time full.
Moderate.—One having time moderate, though he may
remembershort intervals of time very well, will forgetthose
thatare longer, or have rather an indistinct idea ofthechron­
ological order and relations of time in which certain events
occurred; forget dates and ages, and be unable to tell with
much accuracy the time of the day or month: with event
large, though he may remember certain circumstances with
perfect accuracy, will not have a distinct or positive recol­
lection ofthetime when theyoccurred, or howlongoneevent
Digitized by t j O O Q l e
happened beforeor after another; and will have only a gen­
eral idea of the intervals between certain events.
Small.—One having time small, will be very forgetfulas
to the time whenf find it difficult to remember the ages in x
his own family, or even his own age, and be frequently
obliged to consult family and other records inorder to ascer­
tain these and similar points; have only a general, and a
very incorrect, memory of dates; can seldom tell the time
of the day without the sun or a time-piece, or even the day
of the month or week; will be the reverseof one with time
large: with aliment large, may calculate the time of the
day quite correctly by his appetite, and be punctual to his
meals; or punctual when some other faculty quickens the
iction of time, yet, in general, will discover a marked defi­
ciency in this respect; and will be poor in chronology.
Very small.—One withtime very small, will seldom, if
ever, notice the chronological order of events as they pass;
have a most imperfect idea of every thing pertaining to suc­
cession and dates: with aliment, only moderate, will even
forget the time of his meals: with event, moderate, will have
a most miserablememory both of circumstances and ofdates:
forget his own age, and most of the circumstances connected
oven with his own history, and thus be a constant sufferer
from this cause.
Location.—Time is located directly above colour, anda
little externally from locality.
34. TUNE.
Sense of melody and harmony of sounds—abilityfto learn
turns and detect discords.
In another part of this work it has been shown, thathear­
ing cannot produce musick, any more than seeing can give
a just conception and judgment of colours, but that a con­
ception of the melody arising from a succession of sounds,
must depend upon another distinctfaculty ofthe mind. That
those, indeed, who possess an equally perfect auditory and
vocal apparatus, differ widely intheirmusical talents, isprov­
ed by every votaryof harmonious sounds, as wellas by every
common observer, from the days of Orpheus down to those
of Haydn, Handel, Mozart, and Catalini.
That the faculty of musick is innateand primary, and man­
ifests its power in different individuals in proportionto a par-
10
Ttrn*. sir
Digitized by LooQle
918 PHRKKOLOOT ILLUSTUTID.
ticular development of the brain, is a fiict fhlJy established
by the observations of phrenologists. They have examined
the heads, busts, or portraits, of Glfick, Zumsteg, Dussek,
Mozart, Viotti, Rosini, Crescentmi, and Cataiini, Handel,
and Haydn, and of many other celebrated musical per­
formers or singers, and have found an extreme development
of the organ of tune in all ofthem. The authors have seen
many children, even, in which the organ was largely devel­
oped, that were able to catch and turn tunes soon after they
began to talk; and, on the other hand, adults in whom the
organ was small, that, after the most laborious efforts under
the most able instructers, were utterly unable to turn a tune,
or even distinguish one tune from another.
The natural language of musick is universal, or, in othei
words,soundsthataremelodioustoonenation,are measurably
so to another; which shows not only, that the principles of
musick exist in nature, but,that the human mind, in orderto
adapt itself to these principles, mnst necessarily possess air
innate faculty whose proper function it is to perceive andap­
ply them: and hence it is, that what constitutes melody and
harmony of sound to the Englishman, is no less so to the
Swede, to the wild rover of the desert, and to him who in­
habits the islands of the sea. Some nations, however, as
well as individuals, are more musical than others, and are
distinguished by a larger development of the organ of tune.
In this respect, the Italians and Germans excel the Span­
iards, Frenchmen, Englishmen, and Otaheitans; and the
authors have noticed, that this organ is generally very large
in negroes; which exactly corresponds with their wonderful
musical propensity and talent.
These remarks will show the utter folly, not to say ab­
surdity, ofthat modern, fashionable prejudice which demands
that musick shall betaught toyoung ladies indiscriminately,
and without the least regard to the natural talent, or defect,
of the individual in this respect, and w'hich condemns many
a lovely femaletowaste years of precious time in what is to
her an intolerable drudgery, and one that nature never plan­
ned for her.
Large.—Onehavinglargetune,willbeable easily tocatch
tunes by hearing them sung a few times over, and to strike
correctly their key note; has a correct musical ear, and,
wfith a good voice,can easilybecome a goodsinger, or a good
performer upon musical instruments; delights to listen to
Digitized by LooQle
¿6od rausicjc, and can easily detect a discord, &c. One Hav­
ing large tune, with large ideal., will not only be extremely
iond of good musick, but will impart a richness, and pathos,
and melody to his musical performances which are cal ulat-
ed to move the heart; with large time added, will be a me­
lodious singer, and add new charms to his musick by keep­
ing the beat correctly j but, with time small, will have an
excellent musical ear, accompanied with much melody and
good taste, yet will fail greatly in time,and, when singing in
company, generally sing too slowly: with combat, and de-
struct. large or very large, will delight greatly in martial
musick, and be highly excited by the stirring notes of the
fife, the drum, the bugle, &c.: with adhes. and ideal, large,
will be very fond of songs, and be able to sing them to ad­
miration; and, with large or very large time and hopeadd­
ed, will be highly delighted with dancing tunes, and, in
dancing, precisely keep the step, and be gay and cheerful in
the “ assembly room,” and enjoy the cotillon party, &c., be­
yond measure: with hope small, and ven., conscien., and
adhes. large or very large, will prefer plaintive airs, minor
moods, solemn, devotional musick, &c.; and, with hope large
even, will still prefer solemn tunes, yet select those of a
cheerful, lively air: with large or very large lang., can easi­
ly associate tunes with the words set to them, and thus read­
ily commit songs, hymns, &c., so as to sing them by rote.
In learning tunes, and in singing them with words, the or­
gan of lang. renders very important assistance. The same
is also true of imitat., which gives the proper expression to
a musical performance, enables the performer to imitate dif­
ferent kinds of style, &c.
Very large.—One having tune very large, will be able
to learn tunes by hearing them once or twice repeated, and
will never forget them; is filled with ecstasy, or completely
carried away, with good musick, butcannotendure a discord,
or an awkward or artificial singer or player; produces a
powerful impression upon the feelings of those who listento
his performances, and literally charms them, &c.
One having tune very large, with large or very large ad­
hes,, ideals ven., hope, imitat., time, lang., individ., weight,
dnd compar., will be a natural musician of the first order;
He pre-eminent for his musical taste and talent; pour forth
his whole soulinthe most melting and voluptuous strains of
melody and harmony, so as often to overcome the hearer;
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
learn, as it were, by intuition, to play upon any musical in­
strument; perform to admiration all kinds of musick, pat*'
ticularly sentimental pieces, Irish airs, Scotch melodies, and
other pieces of kindred sympathy and pathos; and will be
able to compose musick characterized by sentiment, pathos,
and the soul of melody.
Full.—One having tune full, will be able, with consid­
erable practice, to learn tunes both by note, and also by the
ear; may be called a good, and even a superiour, singer, yet,
for any musical talent he may possess, will be indebted as
much to art and scienceas to nature; with the aid of notes,
and a good knowledge oftheprinciples, may be able to read
musick correctly, and even sing, at first sight, almost any
piece of musick presented to him, yet his musical perform­
ances will be characterized more by accuracy than melody
andpathos. One having tune full, with large or very laigc
ideal., will be highly delighted with good musick, and have
a correct musical ear, and impart a peculiar softness to his
singing, and, with large imitat. added, be capable of becom­
ing a good singer, if not a superiour musician; can readily
imitate different kinds of style, &c.: with the moral senti­
ments large, may experience much fervourofdevotion while
singing, and impartthis feeling to his musicaldisplays: with
lang. large, in calling to mind various tunes, will be greatly
assisted by recollecting the words set to them, and will find
it somewhat difficult to learn tunesdisconnected with words;
with lang. moderate or small, will receive, in learning tunes,
very littleaid from lang., andfail somewhat inapplying words
to musical sounds: with compar. large or very large, will
readily decide between what tunes and words a harmony of
sentiment exists; and, with large ven. added, when a hymn
is given out, will be able to select the most appropriate tune,
and, with imitat. also large, to sing it in such a manner as to
convey the sentiments and feelings expressed in the words,
&c. 7 1
The additional combinations and descriptions of tbrie toll,'
may be inferred from those under tune large, the power ana
the manifestations of tune being diminished.
Moderate.—One having tune moderate, may, perhaps,
learn to read musick readily by note, but will be obliged to
labour hard to effect even this; be obliged to hear tunes
many times repeated before he can learn them by rote, and
will then forget them unless he sings them frequently; may,
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by L.ooQle
TUNE. 221
pernaps, be a respectable singer,but will be indebted for this
talent much more to science and application than to nature;
will sing more by the rules of musick than by his ear, and
be generally obliged to have his book before him; will be
rather a mechanical than a natural singer; and will fail to
impart melody and pathos to his musical performances, and
to kindle or melt the soul.
One having tune moderate, with ideal, large or very large,
will listen with rapture to good musick, yet none will please
him except musick of the first order; will be very unpleas­
antly affected by discord, and perhaps be a good judge of
musick, ^et will not be a good or a great performer himself.
Small.—One having tune small, with much effort, may
learn to sing and play tunes, yet will beonlyan automatick,
mechanical, indifferent, and unsuccessful musician, and will
be unable to make melody, or to learn tunes by the ear: with
large or very large ideal., will listen with delight, togood mu­
sick,yetbeslow todistinguish onetune from another,andgen­
erally be insensible tothe higher charms ofexcellent musick.
The combinations and descriptions under tune moderate,
modified by a reduction of the influence of tune, and those
under tune large or very large, reversed, or read with the
addition of a negative, will generally apply to this organ
small.
Very small.—One having tune very small, will be un­
able to strike a note correctly, and even to distinguish one
tune or one note from another: with mirth, large, will be
likely to ridicule a musical taste or an amateur in musick,
or be, at least, indifferent to musick, if not really disgusted
with it.
L ocation.—Tune is located, in adults, about three quar­
ters of an inch above the organ of calcu., and within the
arch of the superciliary ridge. The location of tune is so
much affected by the size of the surrounding organs,andits
external appearance, by the temporal muscle which passes
over it, that, except in the case of children, the authors are
not always able to decide correctly upon its size. It may
also be added, that a good voice adds greatlyto good musick,
and is therefore frequently mistaken for a musical ear or tal­
ent. Others, again, in whom the organ is only moderate,are
tolerable singers, but are indebted for this talent chiefly to
science and practice. Hence many correct decisions upon
tune, are considered erroneous.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
S 2 2 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
35. LANGUAGE.
Pow er of communicating ideas by means of p a rtievla t
signs— memory o f words-—recollection of arbitrary signs
as expressive of ideas.
In the plenitude of his wisdom and goodness, the Great
Author of our being has seen fit, in various ways, to distin­
guish man from “the beasts that perishand one of these
distinguishing characteristicks, is most strikingly displayed
in his power of speech. Without a faculty by means of
which to communicate to his fellow-men, his thoughts, feel­
ings, and desires, man would be incapable of any consider­
able degree of cultivation and refinement, and of carrying
on those vast schemes and projects by which the face of the
earth is subdued and cultivated, and the beasts of the field
brought under subjection to him—by which the forest bows
to his mandate, ana, in its stead, the cultivated form blooms
like a garden—by which science and the arts flourish, com­
merce springs into life, and cities, kingdoms, and republicks
burst forth in all their magnificence and glory.
The signs of,language are of two kinds, natural and arti­
ficial. The natural signs are common both to man and the
lower order of animals, and are understood by each species
of animals by the operations of the instinctive principles of
its nature. In brutes, these natural signs are employed, for
example, in the bleating of a lamb, the neighing of a horse,
and the chirping ofa bird j and inman, in that expression of
voice and feature which he uses in sighing, groaning, laugh­
ing, crying, and in the use ofall that class of semi-articulate
sounds culled interjections. But the grand distinction be­
tween the faculty of language in man and the same faculty
in the brute creation, consists in the ability of the former to
make use of distinct, articulate sounds, which we call speech,
as signs of his ideas, whereas, the ability of the latter is con­
fined to the use of inarticulate sounds.
Forthe more extensiveand perfecttransmission ofthought,
the superiour wisdom and ingenuity of man have also ena­
bled him to invent, and employ by common consent, various
sets of artificial sounds called words, or vocal or artificial
language; and, moreover, to institute certain arbitrary signs
by means of which to represent these words to the eye,call-
ea written language.
Digitized by L.ooQle
LANGUAGE. 223
That the power of speech in man, or his copia verbornm,
is primitive, and depends upon a distinct faculty of the mind,
is evident from the fact, that it greatly differs in different in­
dividuals, and cannot, therefore, be the result of education
alone, but must originally be possessed by them in various
degrees of strength Were it not so, each individual would
display this power in proportion to his cultivation of the fac­
ulty ; but such is by no means the case. W e often see child­
ren that have received little or no instruction, learn the use
and application of words with a facility and accuracy alto­
gether wonderful; and others again upon which a supera­
bundant amount of instruction has been bestowed, that re­
main extremely deficient in this respect, and find great diffi­
culty in commanding words enough to express their ideas
with even common propriety.
W e see persons, also, who have studied many languages,
received all the advantages of instruction from the greatest
Linguists, and wasted long nights over the midnight lamp,
and yet, when they come to express themselves in their mo­
ther tongue, often display a style marked with barrenness,
stiffness, and impropriety; whereas, others who have enjoy­
ed no such advantages, are able to speak and write in a style
both copious and eloquent.
Some persons are able to repeat a page verbatim after
having read it but two or three times over; whilst others,
again, cannot repeat it after having read it as many hundred
times.
And now let us ask, whether these facts at all accord with
the metaphysical notion of some, that language is wholly ar­
tificial, or conventional. If so, language should display it­
self, in individuals of equal talents, in an exact proportion to
its cultivation : but this has clearly been shown not to be the
case. W e must therefore conclude, that the power of lan­
guage or speech, depends upon a primary faculty of the
mind, and that it is as natural for man to employ language,
as it is vision, or hearing, or any other faculty of the mind.
Many remarkable instances of an extraordinary manifes­
tation of this faculty, as well as of its extreme deficiency,
have fallen under the observation of the authors. From a
multitude of cases, they will select, and present, only the two
following.
They know a little girl in whom the organ of language
is extremely large, and who has been brought up in a family
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
224 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATE*.
in which there is no child but herselfJ consequently, ¿he
seldom has any one to talk with. But this deficiency she
has managedtosupply, ever since she was twoor three years
old, by almost incessantly talking to her doll or to herself;
for talk she must, although it often consists in nothing more
than the utterance of articulate sounds without meaning.
She often even conducts a long dialogue in two or three dis­
tinct voices, being assisted in this by large imitation; and
has, moreover, a wonderful propensity to invent, and apply,
names to all objects she sees; and, when these are few»
she gives many names to the same object. Her organ of
tune is also large; and this she frequently gratifies by com­
posing and singing tunes extempore, and sometimes, too, in
rhyme. .
In the family of professor Eaton, the distinguished botan­
ist and naturalist, one of the authors saw a servant-man in
whom the organ is extremely small; and it is with the ut-,
most difficulty that he can command words enough to hold
a conversation upon the most familiar subject:—in proof of
which, many striking anecdoteswere related by theprofessor.
The following is oneof them. Being very anxious tolearn
to read—a thing he found it next to impossible to accom-,
plish—he was sent to school; and, in attempting to relate to
his master the pains taken by his tutor in instructing him»
when he got to the word teaching, he stopped, and hesitated
for a long time, not beingable to think of it,or ofany other
word that would express the idea; but, at last, he got it out
by saying, that “my tutorkeep— jawing mehow to read.”
Large.—One having lang. large, will find it easy and
natural to learn and remember words, and to call to mind
such words as fully express his ideas; possess, in a high
degree, copiousness, freedom, fluency, and power of ex­
pression ; have at command amultitude of wordsand phrases
from which he is able to make such a selection as may be'
dictated by his other faculties; will fill out his sentences
well, and leave but few ellipses to be supplied by the reader;
will be able to write with ease and facility, ana give a copi­
ousness, and richness, and variety to his style, and have a
great desire to talk and read, as well as to hear others do so;
and can easily commit words to memory.
One having lang. large, with large or very large individ.,
fo m, local., and event., can learn verbatim with great rapid­
ity and very little effort; hasa remarkable talent fqr remem­
Digitized by LooQle
LANGUAGE.
bering the precise expressions used by others in conversa­
tion, and for relating accurately what was said by a speaker;
will be able, in school or in college, to learn his lessons, as
it were, by intuition, or, at least, by reading them two or
three times over; will make very rapid advances as a schol­
ar, far outstrip those who have lang., event., and individ. only
moderate, and appear to understand his lessons much better
than he really does, and thus gain great credit for his reci­
tations ; when he attempts to speak, will have a copious flow of
words, and display a remarkable talent for making quotations ;
with only moderate or full caus. added, will talk much, and
fluently, upon subjects without instructing the hearer, or pre­
senting many new ideas, or profound observations; with
large or very large ideal, and compar., and full concent,
added to this combination, is capable of becoming quite in­
teresting, and even eloquent, as a speaker; will be chaste
and finished, if not polished and graceful, in his language
and expressions, and, with imitat. also large, decisively pop­
ular as an extempore speaker; will be perspicuous and ap­
propriate, and easily and fully understood; possess extraor­
dinary facility and felicity of expression, and, whenever he
becomes animated in speaking, will quote poetry with ease
and correctness, yet will have a better command of words
than of ideas; may please the fancy, yet will not greatly
instructor enlighten the understanding: with individ. large
or very large, will use many adjectives and qualifying
phrases; and yet employ words with considerable definite­
ness and precision : with large secret., cautious., approbat.,
conscien, and ven., may be taciturn and reserved before
strangers or partial acquaintances, or, in consequence of his
bashfulness or modesty, yet, when among his familiars and
equals, will talk very freely: with large or very large se­
cret., will generally say but little, and, with cautious, also
large, frequently hesitate in speaking, but this will arise
from the fear of committing himself, or of saying what he
does not intend to say, rather than from a want of words;
but, with secret, moderate or small, will not only have a
great command of words, but be free to express his thoughts
and feelings, and, with benev. and adhes. also large or very
large, this propensity to unbosom himself to others, will be
still farther increased, and he will be a downright talker:
with large individ., combat., and destruct., will have a great
command of severe and bitter epithets, and, when excited, be
10*
225
Digitized by Google
226 PHRENOLOGY lLLtfSTtlATEIL
extremelypointed and sarcastick inhis expressions,and, trfta
compar. also larger can pour out a torrentof abusive words,
or scold with a vengeance: with adhes. and benev. laTge
or very large, will have a great commandof words express­
ive of sympathy,affection, endearment,tenderness of feeling,
&c.; and, with imitat. also large,will accompany his verbal
communications with appropriate gesticulation, and speak
through his action, the expression of his countenance, &c.,
as well as by his words: with compar.'large or very large,
will have a critical knowledge of the precise meaning of
words, of philology, synonymeS, &e., and be prone closely
to criticise both his own expressions and thoseofothers,anq,
with large or very large individ. and event, added, iscapable
of becoming a first-rate linguist: with large or very large
caus. and compar., and only moderate or full ideal., will be
bold, original, and powerful in his expressions, but not fin­
ished, elegant, or polished, and, if large combat,and destru^t.
and moderate or small secret, be added, will speak nut bis
ideas in a plain, strong, blunt, and frequently uncouth style \
will despise the flowers of rhetorick and finely turned peri­
ods, and present the facts and the arguments of his subjeUI
without embellishment: with ideal, large instead of mod­
erate, will be a nervous, strong, and also polished writer
and speaker; have a full flow of ideas, and also ofWo?ds in
which to express them; will combine powerofthought with
copiousness and fluency of diction, and, with a good educa­
tion, be capable of becoming an accomplished and a power­
ful publick speaker ; will express important ideasand strong
arguments in a peculiarly felicitous and happy style, and
have thoughtsenough handsomely tofillthe channel through
which they flow.
Very large.—One having lang. verylarge, will possess
remarkable copiousness of speech and a great flowof words;
talk with perfect ease and the greatest delight; and, with se­
cret. only moderate and approbat. large orvery large,among
his acquaintances, will be, perhaps, too forward in conversa­
tion, and an incessant, not to say intolerable, talker: with
concent, full or large, will be able, and much inclined,'to
throw out the same idea in a great many different forms of
expression, frequently amounting to tautology; will often
weary the hearer with tedious repetitions and circumlocoi
tion, and not unfrequently bury up his ideas in a multitude
of words: with individ.,form, and local, large or verylarger
Digitized by L.ooQle
LANGUAGE. 227
willbe able to commit to memory page after page, even at a
second reading ; will be excessively fond of reading, and of
hearing and relating anecdotes ; after listening to an inter­
esting speech, oration, or sermon, will be able to repeat it
nearly verbatim, giving not only the ideas and the general
tenour of the discourse, but even many of the precise ex­
pressions of the speakerj with large or very large ideal, and
imitât., andonly full caus. added, will be bombastick in his
style, and present more bathos than pathos or sublimity ;
make a great display of eloquence and splendour in his lan­
guage, and yet be destitute of real eloquence and power of
thought; will be loquacious, flippant, and verbose, yet ira-
body but little sense or argument in whathe says : with very
large compar., caus., individ., event., ideal., and combat.,
will be able toengross the wholeattention ofthe hearer, and,
by the clearness and power of his reasoning, combined with
tne superiour elegance of his diction, and the frequent and
well-sustained bursts of his overpoweringeloquence, enchain
him for hours to the subject; will be rich, copious, flow­
ing, vehement, and energetick in his style and manner,
but a much better extempore speaker than writer, because,
in writing, he will be apt to employ too many words for his
thoughts.
The descriptions and combinations of lang. large, modifi­
ed by an increase ofthe powerand desiresimparted by lang.,
will apply to lang. very large.
F u l l .—One having lang. full, will have a respectable
command of words, yet, in order to become fluent, will re­
quire considerable excitement; will not be barren in style or
expressions, nor yet employ many new-coined or redundant
words ; with some effort, may committo memory,yet, unless
individ., form, and local, are very large, will not be eminent
for this talent. One having lang. full, with compar. and
caus. large or very large, will have a rich fund of important
ideas, but they will losesome of their force when expressed,
in consequence of their calling more loudly for words than
can be answered by the speaker, who, unless considerably
excited, will hesitate for words; will seldom be guilty of
circumlocution, but will be rather brief and compact in his
style : with large or very large ideal, added, will be clear,
elegant, and forcible as a writer, but, though he may get on
tolerably well as a speaker, will not bevery fluent,and even
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
when excited, will by no means manifest verbosity, and will
employ no more words than the sense demands.
The additional descriptions and combinations oflang. fall,
due allowance being made by the reader for the diminished
power and manifestations of lang., will be found under lang.
large.
Moderate.—One having lang. moderate, will be some­
times at a loss for words in which to express his ideas, and
particularly so for happy and appropriate words ; when an
idea is presented to his mind, often beobliged to wait for the
organ of lang. to supply the proper sign by which to ex­
press it; generally employ toofew, rather than too many,
words ; and, instead of adding to the force and energy of
his thoughts by the ease and power of his expressions, will
fail to give them even their just due from the province of
language.
One having lang. moderate, with very large compar., will
be very critical in thè use of words, and seldom employ one
which is not fully expressive of the meaning intended to be
coaveyed ; with large or very large ideal, and individ. add­
ed, may be a first-rate linguist, and a clear and elegant wri­
ter, but will not be a fluent speaker—may command words
enough for the use of the 0e>i,butnotfortheuseofthei<ragtte;
will adopt a style more clear than copious ; will not be lo­
quacious, but, in what he says, will employ but few words.
Small.—One having small lang., in communicating his
thoughts and feelings, will employ but few words, and those
of every-day use; in speaking, will frequently hesitate for
words, and possess very little variety or copiousness of ex­
pression ; so far as style is concerned, will be barren, dry,
and common-place; find extreme difficulty in calling tomind
the particular words required to express his meaning; con­
sider talking as rather a burden than a pleasure, and, conse­
quently, will generally say but little,and find it very difficult
to commit to memory.
One having lang. small, secret, large, and mirth, onlyfull,
will be likelyto pass wholedays,and sometimes even weeks,
in which he will speak scarcely a word unless there is an
absolute necessity for it; will not be at all interesting in pro­
miscuous conversation, and his thoughts will lose much of
their force and point in consequence of the deficiency in his
power of expression : with combat, large and excited, or with
a nervous temperament, may speak in a rapid, though some­
tM PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
REFLECTIVE FACULTIES. 239
what incoherent, manner, but will use only common-place
phraseology, and generally express similar ideas in nearly
the same set of words: with very large caus. and compar.,
will have many more thoughts than words, and make every
word express some important idea; can think much better
than communicate; say a great deal in a fewwords; cannot
command a sufficient stock of words with nearly similar
meanings from which to make happy selections; and will
think and reason much more than read or talk.
The combinations and descriptions oflang. moderate, mod­
ified by a diminution of the power of lang., and, also, those
under lang. large and very large, reversed, or read with a
negative, will generally apply to lang. small.
Very small.—One having lang. verysmall, will findthe
utmost difficulty in recollecting the arbitrary signs used to
express the simplest and most common ideas; from actual
poverty of lang., will be obliged to employ words in a sense
widely different from their common and legitimate significa­
tion, and will often express his ideas in very inappropriate
terms ; cannot commit to memory at all, nor learn to read
with any thing like tolerable facility and accuracy, and will
be able scarcely to understand others, or express himself so
that they can understand him.
The combinations and descriptions under lang. small,
modified by a lessening of the power of lang., and those un­
der lang. full, reversed, will apply to this faculty very small.
Location.—Lang, is located upon the superorbiter plate.
When large or very large, by pressing down the upper orbit
of the eye, it pushes the eye outward and downward, giving
a fulness to it, and a swollen appearance to the under eyelid.
When the organ is small, the eyes will appear small and
sunken, and the under eyelid small. The bust of the dis­
tinguished Thos. Addis Emmit, affords a striking specimen
of a large development of this organ.
GENUS II. —-Reflective or Reasoning Faculties.
These faculties impart to the human mind an intellectual
power of a higher order than that given by the perceptive
and semi-perceptive faculties. They enable mantoinvent,to
think, ana reason—-toascertain those abstract relations and
bearings of things which neither observation, nor *ny other
mental power, canreach. Most of theother intellectualfac-
Digitized by LooQle
230 FHKEXOLOCY I U U 8 T U T E P .
aides, are possessed, in a greater or less degree, by some
species of the lower order of animals, and some of them,to
a far greater extent than by man. Yet, none of these an­
imals can invent, or, to anyconsiderable extent,adapt means
to ends. Neither canthey improve upon their mere animal
instincts, for they are manifestly destitute of what,in man, is
called contrivance. From generation to generation, they
grovel in thesame beaten track, and, as fir as improvement
is concerned, remain stationary; whilst soaring, reasoning
man is always advancing, and improving upon the discov-
erics and inventions of his predecessors. At thepresentday,
the sparrow builds its nest, and the beaver its hut and dam,
in precisely the same manner that their progenitorsdid four
thousand yearsago; but, when we compare thetenthousand
improvements in manufactures, agriculture, commerce, sci­
ence, and the arts, of the present English and American
race, withtherudehuts and implements of their Saxon fore­
fathers, we behold the striking and wonderful effects of cul­
tivated reason.
This subject also enables us to advance understanding^
to another important characieristick of man, by showing us
how itis that he becomes, not only a rational, but, likewise,a
moral and an accountable, being. Unaided by the reason­
ing faculties, consciencewould be lame and blind; but,with
their assistance, it is enabled to lay hold of the first princi­
ples of right andjustice, andtopoint out toman the path of
rectitude and moral duty. Unaidedby the reasoning facili­
ties, the other moral faculties would also wander in obscure
twilight, and often stumble upon the dark mountains of er-
ronr; but, with their help, veneration is enabled to look at
the attributes of the great Jehovah,and successfully to study
his divine character, and the moral relations that exist be­
tween man and bis Maker, as well as between man and bis
fellow-man—relations equally important and sublime with
any others which the reasoning powers are capable of tra­
cing. With their assistance, hope wings its flight into the
brightregionsoffuturity,andthereexpatiates rationally upon
that state of being which awaits us when we shall have
passed the bourne of mortality.
Philosophers of all ages, have been 6greed upon thefact,
that man is the only animal endowed with the moral and
reasoning faculties; but it has been left to phrenologists to
observe, and point out, the fact, that man is also the onlyan-
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
CAUSALITY. 231
lihal that possesses a high and broad forehead, and an ele­
vated, coronal portion tothe head—in which the organs of
these faculties are located. And yet, without fully compre­
hending, or duly appreciating the importance of, the fact,
mankind have always been aware, as all history amply
proves, that a high, bold, and prominent forehead is neces­
sary to a great and profound reasoner. That there really
exists a reciprocal relation between the reasoning powers and
the expansion of the upper portion of the forehead, will be
made fully manifest by comparing the heads of any deep
thinkers and strong and bold reasoners with those of individ­
uals who possess these intellectual qualities in a lower de­
gree—by comparing, for example, the foreheads of Franklin,
Washington, Clinton, Gall, and Melancthon, with those of
Aurelia Chase, the New Zealander, Indian, Carib, idiot, &c.#
and the heads of animals, in the cuts upon the Chart. Now,
such coincidences as these, are too striking to be the result
of mere chance, and must, therefore, be produced by design;
and if by design, they constitute a page in the book of na­
ture, worthy the perusal of every student of nature.
36. CAUSALITY.
P ow er of perceiving and applying the principles of causa­
tion— ability to discover, and trace out, the connexion and
relations existing between causes and effects ; to plan, in­
vent, and adapt means to ends ; to draw conclusions from
given prem ises; to reason— disposition to investigate,and
askt why ?—key-slone of commonsense.
It is an axiom in philosophy, that “every effect must have
a cause;” and, also, that “every cause must produce an ef­
fect:” and, again, that, “under similar circumstances, like
causes produce like effectsand, farther, that “all the phe­
nomena throughout universal nature,proceed upon the prin­
ciple of cause and effect, or antecedent and consequent.”
But let us inquire from what source it isthat philosophers
gather these maxims. That they are not the product of the
observing faculties, is evident from the fact, that these facul­
ties are possessed, more or less, by the brute creation, and
yfet, we know that brutes do not reason—that they are not
capable of comprehending the relations ofcauseand effect—
at any rate, beyond the narrow limits of their experience ;
and this can scarcely be considered as reaching the princi­
ple of causation. Hence, we infer, that man is endowed
Digitized by LooQle
23d PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
with some faculty of the mind of which the lower order of
animals is destitute, by which he is enabled to reach this
principle.
That the faculty in man which regards every phenomenon
or result in nature as the product of some antecedent cause,
is innate, and itsoperation, intuitive,may, moreover, bejustly
inferred from the feet,that he is naturally prone to demand a
~ea$on iorevery thing—to ask why it is so: and that this dis­
positionin man is more or less strong in proportion as a cer­
tain partofthe brain (causality, see cuts) is largely or other­
wise developed, is equally proved by the observations ofphre­
nologists, as well as of mankind generally:—for here is one
point in phrenology in which mankind, in all ages, have be­
lieved.
That this faculty in man is innate, is still farther evident
from the fact, that thiscause-seeking disposition is strikingly
evinced in children. Almost as soon as they begin to make
observations, they also begin to inquire, why things are so­
lo investigate the causes, reasons, and uses of things.
As this faculty is designed for, and adapted to, the princi­
ple of causation alluded to, it is evident, that, when strongly
or fairly developed, and furnished with proper data upon
which to operate, it will always decide correctly concerning
causes and effects: for if, under such circumstances, itshould
notalways teach us the truth, or give us correct information
as to those first principles or truths which exist in nature, it
would not act in harmony with nature’s laws, nor fully per­
form the function for which it is originally designed.
What should we think, for example, ofan eye that would
present objects to the mind double, triple, or quadruple, or
give the image of a horse when it looked at a man,or ofan
ass instead of a metaphysician ? What should we think of
a faculty of colour that would make green appear yellow, or
black, white? Undoubtedly, we should consider them de­
fective or perverted. If, then, we havea right toexpect, that
the perceptive faculties, in conjunction with the external
senses, when uninjured and unperverted, will furnish us
With correct information concerning physical objects and
their qualities, it is equally reasonable to suppose, that, un­
der similar circumstances, the reasoning faculties will make
a true report of the abstract relations and causes of things.
Consequently, all that we have to do in order to ascertain
the truth in any given matter, is td lay before causality tho
Digitized by L.ooQle
CAUSALITY.
naked facts in the case, and all the facts, atndits decision will
be the truth required: and the only reasons why the opin­
ions of men so frequently andso widely differ upon the same
subject, and stray so far from the truth, are either that the
data upon which the decisions of causality and comparison
are predicated, are incorrect or insufficient, or because the
reasoning organs are too feeble to bear up against the clam­
ours of prejudice or passion.
Large.-—One having caus. large, will be able intuitively
to perceive, and readily to apply, the principles of causation;
to lay good plans, and successfully reach desired ends by the
application of appropriate means;will have a strong desire to
ascertain the why and the wherefore ofthings; to investigate
their nature and relations, and ascertain their origin, uses,
and procuring causes; will consider facts and phenomena
oqly as connected with their principles and causes; perceive
selfevident truths, and draw inferences from them ; possess
an inquiring, investigating turn of mind; with proper cul­
ture of this faculty, be able to originate good ideas, and rea­
son correctly upon the data furnished by the other faculties;
by the intuitive application of the principle that like causes
syill,always produce like effects, be able to predict what will
be, from what has been; to tell wherein one result will differ
from another, and, also, what will be the effectof given meas­
ures,* will intuitively perceive the various bearings and the
abstract relations of things; naturally possess a large en­
dowment of sagacity, penetration, good sense, judgment, and
originality; and be disposed to give, and require, not only a
reason for every thing, but, also, a satisfactory explanation
of all its phenomena.
One having caus. large, with the perceptive organs full,
large, or very large, will be quick to perceive the first truths
or axioms of natural philosophy, to draw inferences from
them, and to apply them whenever occasion demands: with
compar. and conscien. large or very large, to perceive the
force of moral truths and inferences, and to admit moral ax­
ioms, and be able to reason clearly and correctly from them :
with tjie selfish faculties strong, will be able to provide for
his selfish wants, and secure selfish ends: with acquis, full
or large, or even only moderate or small, to lay excellent
plans for accumulating wealth: with the perceptive organs
only moderate or full, will be more delighted with the prin­
ciples and the philosophy of natural science, than with the
Digitized by Google
234 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
merefacts, and seldom contemplate factsapart fromthelaws
concerned in their production: with individ. and event, only
moderate or full, will be guided much more by the reason
of things, and by general principles, than byexperience; but,
with individ. and event, large orvery large, will be influenced
both by experiments and facts, and also by the principles in­
volved in them; have a superiour talent, not only for col­
lecting facts, but, also, for drawing correct deductions from
them; devise and execute with surprising sagacity and tact,
and possess an excellent talent for turning things to his own
advantage—for seeing just what ought to be done in order
most successfully to obtain the desired end, and will possess
a very large share of practical sense and sound judgment:
with large or very large compar. and only moderate percep­
tive faculties, will deal much more in that which is abstract
and metaphysical than in facts and details, and possess much
more intellect than he appears to have; be too abstract, and
think too deeply, to be properly appreciated, especially by
those who have large perceptive, and only full reasoning,
faculties; will have an excellent memory of thoughts and
first-principles, but forget circumstances and particulars;
have a distinct recollection of inferences, yetbe apt to forget
the premises from which they were drawn ; be able to think
and reason clearly and strongly, yet, in presenting his ideas,
will fail to do them justice, or give them the force necessary
to produce the conviction to which they are justly entitled:
with the selfish faculties generally large or very large, and
the moral only moderate or full, will make his reason sub­
servient to the mandates of his selfish, not to say vicious and
depraved, animal desires and gratifications; and prostitute
this noble gift to the injury both of himself and his fellow-
men : with the moral organs large, and the selfish also large,
will have a vigorous intellect propelled byenergetick, selfish
passions, and modified by a strong current of moral feeling,
yet his moral and religious opinions and practices will be
strongly tinctured with hisanimal feelings—his religious gar­
ments often defaced with spots and patches ofselfishness and
sin;and his reason turned toa good or bad account according
as his education,external circumstances, &c.,excite mere pow­
erfully either the one or the other class of faculties: with
the moral organs large or very large, the propensities full or
large, but less than the moral and reasoning organs, andthe
perceptive, at least, full, will possess great intellectual power
Digitized by Google
CAUSALITY. 235
and superiour talents, which will be called into energetick
action, and urged forward by strong feelings, and directed
by high-toned, moral principle, to the advancement of some
noble and important object; and have enough ofthe propen­
sities to impart efficiency to his intellectual and moral facul­
ties, which, however, will maintain the ascendency: with
combat, large, will warmly defend and advocatehis opinions,
and engage in debate wtih spirit and delight, &c.
Caus. acts with a power and success reciprocally propor­
tionate to the size of the organ and the stimuli which excite
it. These stimuli are supplied by the other faculties, and
vary according to the intensity with which these faculties
desire those objects procured by the aid of caus. For ex­
ample; one having caus. large, with very large domestick
organs, and only moderate selfish propensities, will seem to
lack wisdom in conducting his own selfish interests, because
he will be comparatively indifferenttothem, but, in reference
to his children, his family, his friends, &c., he will plan
with uncommon judgment, and manifest great foresight:
with acquis, small, and approbat. or self-e., or both, very
large, will be likely to manifest great mental vigour in his
efforts to secure distinction, yet, in the mere accumulation of
wealth, may discover a decisive want of tact and judgment,
and ability to plan ; but still, if any of the other faculties de­
sire money, caus. will do its utmost to supply them, and
devise means admirably calculated to secure this object:
with the selfish propensities only moderate or full, compar.
and conscien. large or very large, ven. full or large, and the
perceptive organs only moderate or full, will reason clearly
and forcibly from correct moral premises, and successfully
prosecute ethical and theological investigations, yet be less
distinguished for his delight and success in pursuing nat­
ural philosophy, and be likely tomake but indifferent calcu­
lations in regard to his pecuniary affairs, and manage them
rather poorly; but, with the perceptive organs large or very
large, conscien. small, and ven. only full, while he will rea­
son clearly and correctly upon natural philosophy and mat­
ters which have no moral bearing, will commit the grossest
errours in reasoning upon the character ofthe Supreme Be­
ing and religious subjects generally, his duties to his fellow-
men, and of their obligations to him, &c. The same prin­
ciple applies to caus. in combination wdth any of the other
organs in their various states of development.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
236 PHRBNOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Very large.—One having caus. very large,withalarge
head and an active temperament, in addition to the manifes­
tations described under caus. large, will be pre-eminent for
the correctness of his judgment, the clearness, originality,
and importance of his ideas, the extentof his understanding,
and the power of his intellect; be distinguished for taking
new views, even of the most ordinary subjects, and for pre­
senting them in a striking light; for discovering new me­
thods of effecting certain objects; be able to calculate, with
certainty, what effects will be produced bythe application of
particular means, and, also, the most judicious method of
applying these means; clearly perceive the full force of ar­
guments ; be able to explain, or “clear up,” abstruse points
and difficult subjects; to carry conviction to the mind by his
irresistible arguments, and always topresent them in a man­
ner perfectly intelligible; will grasp, as itwere, with a giant
intellect, those great andfundamental principles which enter
into the nature and constitution of things; and possess ex­
traordinary greatness of mind and vastness of comprehen­
sion.
One having caus. very large, with compar. large or very
large, will be extremely delighted with metaphysical and
abstract studies; attempt to pry intothe nature and first-prin­
ciples of every thing; will speculate and theorize, and, with
large conscien. added, will excel as a metaphysician, and es­
pecially as a moral and intellectual philosopher; with large
individ. added, will notonly display extraordinary depth and
power of thought, but, also, be able to express and illustrate
his ideas in a manner so simple and intelligible as to make
himself easily and fully understood even by feebleminds; if
he fail in any part of his projects, will readily supply the
deficiency by a resort to the mosthappy expedients,and thus
generally succeed in his undertakings; never beat a lossfor
resources, and be*wonderfully ingenious in calling them up
and applying them; and possess extraordinary intellectual
power and acumen.
The Combinations and descriptions of caus. large, modifi­
ed by an increase of the power of caus., will apply to this
organ very large.
Full.—One having caus.full, will have a strong desire
to ascertain the reason of things, and to investigate theirna­
ture and procuring causes, yet his views of the relations of
cause and effect, will bfeless clear, and his inductions froma
Digitized by boogie
given amount of data, less correct, than they would be if
caus. were large or very large; with proper culture, will be
respectable as a reasoner, yet the cast of his mind will not
be strikingly original or logical, nor his judgment first-rate:
with large or very large perceptive faculties, may be qualifi­
ed to do a fair business, yet will not excel in planning or in
conducting a great business, nor be distinguished for employ­
ing the best means to effectdesired ends ; with large imitat,
individ., and approbat., and moderate or small self-e. added,
will lack independence and originality of thought and char­
acter ; adopt the views and opinions of those with whom he
most associates, and thus have no marked character or plans
of his own, and, with ven. and conscien. large, will not de­
sire, or hardly dare, especially in religious matters, to think
or act for himself; may pass for a man of considerable talent
and intellect, yet much of his knowledge will be borrowed,
and his disposition and ability to apply his mind closely to
an argument or process of thought, will be weak and limit­
ed, and his judgment, not very profound: with compar., in­
divid., and event, large, will not be distinguished for the
superiority of his judgment, nor yet for the weakness of it;
will possess considerable 'practical talent, and understand
himself well, yet be somewhat superficial, and manifest more
discrimination and tact than originality and depth, and fail
to present arguments in a clear, cogent, and convincing man­
ner, as well as to appreciate the full force of the reasonings
of others.
Moderate.—One having caus. moderate, will not be
very clear or correct in apprehending the principles of
causation, nor reason clearly or closely; with individ.,
event., and lang, large, and compar. full or large, may pass
through the ordinary routine of life with tolerable success,
yet, when called upon to think, or plan, or call up resources
—to devise means, or originate any thing, will manifest
weakness and inability; may learn well, and, with imitat.
also large, do what he sees others do, and gain something
from experience, yet will be unwilling to apply his mind to
any subject which requires close investigation and research,
and will not be able to j-easou strongly or deeply, or to ap­
preciate the arguments of those who do; and will not be at
all distinguished for quickness ofcomprehension or depth of
understanding: with the selfish faculties strong, will besway­
ed chiefly by his animal propensities, and yet be shrewd in
CAUSALITY. 237
Digitized by Google
238 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
many things, although his shrewdness Will result morefrom
instinct than reason : with secret, large, and conscien. only
full, by art and intrigue may succeed well for awhile, yet it
will notbe difficult to penetrate his designs, and discover his
intentions, and, consequently, to defeat his purposes.
Small.—One having caus. small, will be decisively defi­
cient in discernment and understanding; fail to comprehend
the reasons, principles, causes, and the general bearing of
things, as well as the force of logical arguments ; be injudi­
cious in planning, and unable to see the end from the begin­
ning, or comprehend the result of certain measures ; beun­
able to think, and dull in comprehending * subject, even
when clearly and fully explained to him ; slow to draw in­
ferences, and unskilful in adapting means to the accomplish­
ment of desired ends ; possess feeble powers of ratiocination,
and a judgment that cannotbe relied upon •and have notalent
for metaphysicks, or moralizing, and very little “hard sense.”
One having caus. small, with secret, large or very large,
may manifest considerable tact and ingenuity in laying plots,
yet have too little depth or strength of intellect to carry
through his manœuvres: with very large individ.,may have
an extensive knowledge of matters and things in general, yet
will not be able to invent, or improve upon the inventions of
others, to devise “ways and means,” and create resources.
The combinations and descriptions under large or very
large caus., reversed, will apply to caus. small.
Very small.—One having caus. very small, will utterly
fail to appreciate or apply the principles of causation, or to
comprehend the relations of cause and effect; be unable to
reason, or to understand the arguments or explanations of
others, be they ever so clear and simple, and will be appa­
rently destitute of the qualities ascribed to caus. large.
Of all the human faculties, caus. is undoubtedly the most
useful and important, (if, indeed, a preference may be given
to one faculty over another,) as it gives that depth, and
strength, and solidity to the mind so necessary to the proper
guidance and direction of the other faculties, and without
which, man could scarcely be accounted a rational being. It
is, in fact, that faculty which, above* all others, so pre-emi­
nently distinguishes man fromthe brute, and enables him to
stand forth in majestick dignity as the lord ofthis lower cre­
ation. With this faculty largely developed, (and aided by
compar.,) man is capableof thinking, reasoning,rising, soar-
Digitized by Google
COMPARISON.
Jng—of looking, with an intelligent eye, into the works of
the Deity, and of penetrating the mighty mysteries of hia
divine government. Without it, what would be man ?—a
helpless, unintelligent creature—a feeble, grovelling thipg,
scarcely elevated above the meanest reptile.
Location.—Caus. is located in the upper and lateral por­
tions of the forehead, externally from compar., and gives
height and breadth to the forehead proportionate to the size
of the organ.
37. COMPARISON.
Disposition and ability to compare various things for the
purpose of ascertaining their points of resemblance and
of difference— power of classification— perception and
application of the principles o f analogy— ability to dis­
cover truths that are unknown, by discerning their resem­
blance to those that are already ascertained, and also
errour from its incongruity with truth—power of illus­
tration— critical acumen.
On account of the resemblance which one thing, or one
set of things, bears to another, most of the phenomena of
the natural world, are capable of being grouped together
into classes. The causes of these phenomena, or their rela­
tions of cause and effect, as has been observed, are sought
out hy causality; their resemblances and analogies, and their
dissim ilarities, are recognised by comparison. Form may
compare different shapes; tune, different notes; and colour
may contrast'different shades; but comparison can compare
*a colour and a shape,a teint and a note, an idea and a sub­
stance; which cannot be done by these other faculties alone:
and thus it is, that comparison embraces within the legitimate
sphere of its function, the whole range of nature. It some­
times discerns resemblances between things apparently the
most distant and unlike; and often traces out analogies be­
tween the qualities of mind and matter: and is the grand
agent in producing similes, metaphors, and allegories, par­
ables, and fables.
As was predicated of causality, that, when furnished with
correct data, it would always draw just conclusions, add
teach us what is trues so may it be of comparison, that, in­
asmuch as it is primarily adapted to take cognizance of cer­
tain resemblances and arrangements in nature, it, also, when
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
furnished with proper data, will give us the truth concerning
these arrangements. In other words; the legitimateconclu­
sions drawn by comparison inaccordance with the principles
of analogy, may be relied upon with as much certainty as
those drawn by causality, or experience. For example;
there is a resemblance, mere or less striking, in theanatomi­
cal structure of all the various orders, genera, and speciesof
animals, and, also, in the structure of different individuals
of the same species. Hence, comparison has a right to in­
fer, that, as far as this anatomical analogy extends, these dif­
ferent animals are governed by similar physiological laws.
In other words; as far as an analogy actually exists between
any two things, we have a right to conclude, that what is
true of the one, is equally so of the other. If, for instance,
we discover an animal whose species is unknown to us, we
immediately compare it with some animal of a known spe­
cies which it most resembles; and, as faras this resemblance
holds good, we at once, and justly, conclude the animals are
alike in their nature and habits. If the strange animal is
furnished with the organs which we know belong to herbiv­
orous animals, we conclude that it is herbivorous; if, with
the organs of carnivorous or granivorous animals, we infer
that it is carnivorous, or granivorous, asthe case may be: if
the animal is furnished with legs and feet, we conclude that
its nature is to walk or run on land; if, with wings, we say
it flies in the air; if, with fins, we judge it swims in the wft-
ter, and so on: and we naturally rely upon the justness ef
these conclusions, though drawn entirely from analogy, as
confidently as we do upon the truthstaught bythemostrigid
induction. Indeed, the human mind is so constituted, that it*
cannot avoid making comparisons, and then relying upon
their result.
That the principles of analogy really exist in nature, is
demonstrated by every day’s observation and experience;
and hence we infer the necessity of a primary power of the
mind whose proper function it is toperceive these principles,
and, by their application, todiscover truth and detecterrour:
and hence we may also infer, that arguments which are
based upon correct analogies, are strictly true. This being
the case, then, the only reason why arguments drawn from
analogy, are so often unsound, is, that the comparisons upon
which they are predicated, are not, in all respects, just: for,
if the resemblance upon which the argument is founded.
240 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATE!»
Digitized by L.ooQle
COMPARISON.
bolds good in ninety-ninepoints in a hundred, and differs in
one, this difference, provided the analogy from which the
conclusion is drawn, reaches this point, will destroy the
whole force of the analogy, or as far, at least, as the argu­
ment is concerned, and, of course, render the conclusion
false *but, conclusions drawn from any points in which the
analogy holds good, are correct, and may be relied upon.
Here, then, we have arrived at the source of that great flood
of sophistry and false reasoning which sweeps through the
popular discourses and discussions of the day.
Large.—One havingcompar. large,will readily discover
analogies, resemblances, differences, &c,., and1be able, and
disposed, to classify those thoughts, phenomena, and things
of which the other faculties have taken cognizance; possess
a happy talent for generalizing, illustrating, and reasoning
from similar cases; frequentlyemployfigurative expressions;
readily discover the point and the application of arguments;
make nice discriminations; possess a criticising, comparing
turn of mind, and readily detect fallacies in arguments, and
inaccuracies, and improprieties in the use of words, &c.
The objects compared by this faculty, are determined, in
part, by its combinations. For example; one having corn-
par. large, with full, large, or very large event, and individ.,
will have a happy talent, and a passionate fondness, for com­
paring different phe7io7nena, and classes of phenomena, in
the natural world, as well as various historical accounts,
scientifick facts and experiments, &c., and be quick to dis­
cern those resemblances and differenceswhich obtain between
them, and, also, between the various sciences themselves;
with a view to make himself easily understood, will be
strongly prone to illustrate his ideas by a reference to some
fact or phenomenon with which the auditor is supposedto be
familiar; with form, size, and local, added, will be very
skilful in comparing those things which come under the
cognizance of these faculties respectively,as well as in draw­
ing illustrations from them: with ven. and conscien. large
or very large, will draw religious instruction from natural
objects, and apply the principles and phenomena of natural
science, and of the physical world generally, to the investi­
gation of moral and religious subjects; compare spiritual
things with temporal, and temporal with spiritual, and be
predisposed to receive, and convey, religious instruction by
means of parables, allegories, &c., and, in reasoning upon
11
2 «
Digitized by Google
FH RCN 0LOOT lU tr m A T If.
moral subjects, make a great many nice distinctions, Ac,:
with ideal, and individ. large or very large, will make many
elegant and elevated comparisons; employ many metaphors,
similes, and other figures which will glow with the fervour,
and be enlivened by the brilliancy, of a lively imagination,
and serve the purpose of argument and ornament united;
yet, with only full caus. added, there will be very little rea­
son or sound logick in his metaphors and illustrations; with
caus. large, in investigating causes, will be greatly assisted
and often led to his conclusions, by the light of comparison;
m thinking and reasoning upon subjects, and especially in
deciding upon the force of arguments, will employ his caus.
as much as his compar., and probably moTe, yet, in commu­
nicating his ideas, will manifest more compar. than caus.,
and illustrate them copiously and forcibly: with concent,
moderate or small, will frequently employ mixed metaphors,
and seldom sustain, or carry out, his comparisons: with
idea), only moderate or full, will still employ metaphors,
similes, and copious illustrations, but they will be argu­
mentative, rather than ornamental; and, though they may
be clear and in point, they will not be glowing or elevated
in character, nor always in good taste: with secret moderate
or small, and lang. and combat, full or large, will be so much
inclined to criticise the expressions of others, as often to get
their ill will, yet,toexercisehis critical acumen, will beso nat­
ural tohim, that he will find it difficulttoavoid it: with idea).,
imitat., individ., form, size, order, local., event., and lang.
large or very large, and caus. only full, will have a popular
and decisively practical talent, which will appear to be much
greater than it really is,but his judgment will be much more
the result of experience and observation, than of reflection;
have a superiour, natural tact and talent for doing business,
and getting along well in the world; acquire knowledge very
easily, retain it for a long time, and also apply it tovery gooid
advantage; speak and, perhaps, write well upon subjects
which require no great depth of thought; be likely to pass
for a person of superiour mental powers, yet, he will not
often bear sounding, nor reason closely nor profoundly, nor
take original or comprehensive views of subjects; but, with
caus. large or very large, will be able tocombine uncommon
theoretical, with extraordinary practical, talents; according
to his advantages, will have at command a great amount of
facts upon a great variety of subjects, and also, be able to
M 2
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
COMPARISON.
applyhisknowledge tothe best advantage,both in reasoning,
and in accomplishing his purposes ; will be naturally both
learned and profound, and capable of excelling in the natu­
ral,metaphysical,anddemonstrativesciences;bepre-eminently
talented, and calculated both to devise and execute, and thus
to conduct a great business; and, with combat., firm., hope,
and self-e. large or very large, be abundantly able to rise far
above the/common level of mankind, and to turn his hand
successfully to almost any undertaking; and will add to su-
periour natural talents, great energy and perseverance.
Very large.—One having compar. very large, will be
able,readily tocompare,and perfectlyanalyze, almost any sub­
ject which may be presented to his mind; will instantlyand
intuitiVely detect the fallacy of analogical arguments, and
the misapplication of words or facts; present his ideas in a
manner so perfectly clear and simple,and accompanied with
illustrations so copious and appropriate, that they can be
fully and easily understood: with lang. and individ. large,
will pour outa superabundant flood of figurativeexpressions;
be strongly.inclined tocriticise every thing he sees, hears, or
reads ; and, with moderate conscien., will be likely, by his
wonderful pow^r and copiousness, and seeming appropriate­
ness, of comparison and illustration, to make the better side
appearthe worse, and the worse, the better—to employ sophis­
try, put false constructions upon things, and make wrong ap­
plications of them, and thus knowingly mislead the common
mind, &c.
The influence of compar. very large, acting in combina­
tion with the other organs, has been described under the
other organs respectively. It may also be added, that the
combinations and descriptions given asapplicable to compar;.
large, modified by an increase of the influence of compar.,
will apply to this organ very large.
Full.—One having^//compar., will be respectable for
bis discrimination and ability to compare, analyze, and illus­
trate things, yet will not be particularly distinguished for
this power ; frequently resort to illustrations, yet they will
not manifest the quality of versatility, nor be always in
point; not at once discover whether a comparison is just and
appropriate, and, though he may be able to trace out plain
and striking analogies, will not so readily discover the more
obscure and subtle resemblances, analogies, differences, &c. :
with caus. large or very large, will have good ideas, but
24Ô
Digitized by boogie
844 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
they will often be less applicable to the subject, and more
imperfectly illustrated, than isdesirable: with the perceptive
faculties generally strong, will not discover any marked de­
fect in this particular, nor any peculiar talent for compari­
son, &c.
The additional manifestations of compar. full, may be in­
ferred from those of compar. large, modified by a decrease
of the power of this faculty.
Moderate.—One having compar. moderate,may beable
to discern the plainer and more obvious resemblances and
differences which exist in the phenomena of nature, but will
failto discover the more obscure points, and nicer shades, of
resemblance and difference; may perceive the force ofcom­
parisons and illustrations presented by others, yet will not
be happyin discoveringthem himself,nor readily perceivethe
application ofarguments, norgive point tohis own: with full
or large caus., will make many sensible remarks, yet they
will frequently lack point, and be inapplicable to the subject
in hand: with lang. full or large, will talk much, but not be
able to write with perspicuity, nor to use words with propri­
ety and accuracy: with individ. and event, large or very
large, will have an excellent memory of facts, but, instead
of arranging and classifying them, he will be likely to pre­
sent them in a confused state, and, as itwere, en masse: will
not make nice distinctions between the various passions and
other mental operations, and fail to make critical discrimina­
tions in matters and things generally, or to adduce many
appropriate illustrations.
The descriptions and combinations of compar. full, dimin­
ished, will apply to compar. moderate.
Small.—One having compar. small,will be dull and slow
in perceiving the force of comparisons and analogies, and
possess but little discernment or discrimination, and be un­
able successfully to compare, classify, arrange, illustrate, or
generalize; be almost destitute of critical acumen j and fail
to perceive analogies and differences, even when they are
pointed out to him.
Very small.—One having compar. very small, will be
apparently destitute of all those qualities ascribed to com»»
par. large and very large, and nearly so of those attributed
to compar. full.
Location.—Compar. is located in the middle and uppei
portion of the forehead, between the two lobes of caus., with
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
event, below, and benev. above it. Its shape resembles an
inverted cone.
It has already been remarked, that the class of functions
performed by the reflective faculties, is of a far higher order
than any other, and, also, that, when fairly developed, and
furnished with correct data, if allowed to operate in an un-
perverted and unbiased manner, they will always form cor­
rect conclusions, and furnish us with the truth. But the
great misfortune to mankind is, that these faculties are sel­
dom allowed to asserttheir own proper prerogative,and sway
that influence over human actions and human conduct for
which they are originally designed. Hence it is, that we
so much more frequently see men guided by feeling, by pas
sion, or by prejudice, than by reason.
This great anddeplorable evil generally arises, either from
a neglect to cultivate the reasoning faculties, or from a per*
version of them. It cannot be denied, that the animal and
selfish passionsin man, frequently occupy the greater portion
of the bnin ; butyet, ona close examination, it will generally
be found, that the moral and intellectual faculties,ifproperly
cultivated, are sufficiently powerful to keep in check, and to
control, the feelings and the passions. At present, however,
we have to consider the neglect and perversion of the reflec­
tive faculties only.
As society is now constituted, even in what is called civil*
ized and Christian communities, men are often taught to
fight, to covet, to cheat, lie, and scandalize, to gormandize
and be lascivious; but how rarely are they taught to think !
In proof of this, we have only to look abroad upon the face
of society. How often do we see our beautiful system of re­
ligion debased and degraded, and made subservient to the
vilest and most selfish purposes—her sacred vestments tatter­
ed and torn by sectarian strife and party discord—her holy
altars polluted by base hypocrisy and sordid iniquity—her
sublime doctrines perverted,and her righteous laws trampled
under foot! How often do we seethe unprincipled pretend­
er,gaininghisselfish objectsbypractising uponthe ignorance
and the credulity of his fellow-men—the ambitious, rising
to high places of power ard profit by making use of the
basest duplicity and the most heartless intrigue—byfostering
the pride, flattering the vanity, pampering the luxury, ana
gratifying the selfish passions of those around him! Now,
it is evident, that, if men were taught to think■—if their rear
COMPARISON. 245
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
346 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
toning faculties were properly cultivated, andtrained to per­
form their legitimate functions with energy, these things
would not—these things could not, take place; because, in
the first place, aided by the moral organs, they would restrain
the sinful passions ana desires and the unhallowed ambition
of the designing ; and, secondly, so enlighten the minds of
the common people as to prevent their being thus deceived
and imposed upon.
But the vices and follies of mankind grow out of thepsr-
version of the reasoning faculties more frequently, perhaps^
than out of their neglect: and when this is the case, their
tendency is to make man even worse lhan the brute, for they
are then under the dominion of the selfish passions, andare
rendered almost wholly subservient to the gratification of
their wants—they are then actively employed in searching
fornewobjects uponwhichthe indulgence of the passionsmay
be expended, and new excuses for such indulgence—they are
energetick in seeking out,and presenting, artificial, improp­
er, and unnecessary stimuli to the selfish propensities of*
which the brute can never form any conception, and, of
course, upon which it can never exert or debase its mental
functions.
Again, mankind are not only, not taught to think, but
they are frequently ms-taught to think; that is, they are
often taught tothink in a particular wap—taught to believe
certain doctrines, and todisbelieve others—taughtto believe,
whether reason approves or disapproves; and all this is
brought about by a kind of ratiocinative legerdemain, or by
causing the eye of reason to look at all objects through the
dim spectacles of prejudice. This point may be illustrated
by a reference tochildren. Before their reasoning faculties
have become perverted, they frequently reason more clearly
and accurately upon some subjects than their tutors or their
parents; for, in tne simplicity of their honest hearts, they
deduce from the premises presented to their minds, the con­
clusions which naturally flow from them. Hence, many
jwould do well to take the hint, lay aside their bigotry ana
their prejudice, bow their stubborn pride, and, in reasoning^
adopt the simplicity of tho child.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
UNASCERTAINED ORGANS, 247
UNASCERTAINED ORGANS.
It is admitted by phrenologists generally,that certain por­
tions of the brain remain, as yet, terra incognita; and, be­
lieving, that every portion of the human frame, and every
part of the universe, ismade for,and adapted to, some useful
purpose, and, more especially, since they have ascertained,
that every other portion of the brain is occupied by some
organ whose office itis toperform the functions of some one
of the mental faculties, they cannot resistthe conclusion, that
each of these unascertained portions, isoccupied by a phren­
ological organ adapted to the performance of the functions
of some important, though unknown, faculty of the mind.
One of these portions occurs betweenthe reflective organs
upon the one side, and benevolence and imitation upon the
other: and one of the authors (L. N. Fowler) having made
numerous observations and experiments upon it, is disposed
to believe, that it is occupied by an organ whose function
it is to furnish its possessor with an intuitive knowledge of
human nature ; or, to enable him readily to perceive the
state of mind or feeling possessed by others, and thus suc­
cessfully to adapt himself to, and operate upon, the minds
and feelings of his fellow-men.
The authors are not unaware, that the functions here as­
cribed to this supposed organ, are commonly distributed
among the other organs; or, rather, that they are generally
supposed to be the product of the combined action of many
organs whose functions are already ascertained. But this
view of the subject, however plausible it may be, certainly
carries no great weight of argument with it; for it is based
upon the same ground of reasoning which was formerly oc­
cupied by the metaphysicians, who attempted to account for
all the phenomena of the human mind without admitting it
to he constituted of distinct, separate faculties.
The existence of the faculty here supposed, is rendered
somewhat probable, however, by the a •priori inference, that
the class of functions attributed to it, does not belong exclu­
sively to any one of the other organs. That our ability to
judgeof human nature, and adapt our actions to the feelings
and views of others, receives important aid from caus., corn-
par., cautious., secret., ideal., imitat.,individ., event., &c.,and
fonn experience, is readily admitted; but thatthis abilitywhoU
Digitized by Google
2 4 t PHBBK0LOGY ILLUSTRAT«**
if depends upon these facultiesandexperience, renurinste-bu7'
proved. The authorshave receivedmuch evidencecalculat­
ed to convince them that it is not wholly dependent upon
them, but that it depends more upon intuition. They donot
profess, however, to have settled this point,but havethought *
proper to suggest it to the consideration of phrenologists»
leaving it to beconfirmed or rejected as shall be decided by
future observations and experiments.
The observations of the authors have also led them to
the conclusion, that the central portion of the unascertain­
ed space alluded to, or that directly above compar. and
below benev., is occupied by a faculty the function of which
is to give a peculiar agreeableness and suavity to the man­
ners of its possessor, and an ease and gentleness to the de­
portment. It enables its possessor at once to gain the con­
fidence of those into whose society he may chance to fall,
to obtain personal favours and credit, even from strangers ;'
to get along smoothly and pleasantly with all; and easily
ingratiate himself into their favour and good wih. Even
though combat, destruct., self-e., approbat., and firm., may
manifest themselves in a very objectionable form» and thus
expose an individualto many serious difficulties, this faculty
enables him to smooth the whole 'matter over; to heal the
wounds inflicted by these organs; and makes even his ene­
mies fond of him in spite of their prejudices.
By a reference to the note, it will be seen that the tern*
Agreeableness has been suggested as the name of thin
faculty, but we prefer Suavitiveness.
The supposed difference between the fhculty described
upon page 247, and the one now under consideration, is»
that the former gives an intuitive perception ofthe motivesof'
others, of their feelings, and of the means best calculated to
operate upon them, &c., thus enabling its possessor success-'
fully to persuade his fellow-men, and evento influence their
judgment, whilst the latter imparts those qualities which
make their possessor beloved and always acceptable. By
enabling one to understand the designs and state of mind
possessed by others, the former guards him against imposi­
tion and deception, whilst the latter, by throwing those into
whose society he may happen to fall, offtheir guard, enables
him, if he wishes, successfully to impose upon others.
The responsibility of making these suggestions in refer’
ence to these unascertained organs, devolves upon L. N
Digitized by Google
tmjLBtBRTÜMED ORGAN». B49
Fotvler, who has been making observations upon them for
the last two years. In his opinion, he has the concurrence»
not only of L)r. Buchanan, who has been lecturing in con­
nexion with him on phrenology in the West, but, also, of
Dr. Judson, who has been an advocate and student of Phre­
nology for the last fourteen years. The opinion of Dr. J
we take the liberty to subjoin.*
In reference to the space left unmarked in the cuts and
busts of G. Combe, and, also, ofthe authors, located between
cautiousness and ideality, and represented by Mr. Combe as
unascertained, but as probably occupied by an organ whose
function it is to impart the feeling of vastness, sublimity,
grandeur, dbc., they would merely remark, that, although
they havemade numerous observationsupon it,andare daily
adding to the number, they are still unprepared tooffer any
suggestions different from those of the excellent writer just
alluded to. They are unable, however, tocoincide in opin­
ion with Dr. Powell, who isvery ‘
positive in asserting, that,
in this place, he has discovered, an organ of watchfulness.
To this organ heattributes, not only the function ascribedby
the authors to the unascertained portion of the brain first
alluded to, but, also, that of alertness, which they con­
ceive to be one ofthe manifestations ofcautiousnessaided by
secretiveness. But, howeverthis may be,the authors gladly
• Mr. Fowler—Sir,
After some reflection upon the organs supposed to be newly discovered, I
take the freedom of offering trie following remarks. I am disposed to regard as
correct the organ which renders those possessing it large, agreeable to others. I
am acquaintea with several persons in whom the organ is largely developed and
the corresponding faculty clearly manifested. As It seems to be “a nameless
wight,” although a pleasant companion, 1 propose to call it Agreeablenes*. It
renders those who nave it large, acceptable to their friends; commends them to
all with whom they have intercourse; gives ease to the behaviour, and bestows a
grace upon the manners. Its connexion with benevolence is worthy of notice:
and it is observable that the ApoStle Peter has grouped these faculties together in
his exhortationto Christians, saying—“be pitiful; be courteous.”
Marvellousness seems to be conversant with supernatural occurrences; and,
therefore, it seems not improbable, a priori, that an organ exists whose primary
function is the observation of natural events asdistinguished from those whichare
miraculous. Ifthis is the case, Ishould imagine that the oigan supposed by your
brother to give a knowledge of human nature, takes a wider range than that
which he has ascribed to It, and,instead of being confined exclusively to a knowl­
edge of human nature, that it expatiates freely through all the scenes of nature
spread before us.
Marvellousness inclines us to believean uncommon appearance to be supernat­
ural : this organ presents a plain, common-senseview of the matter, and compari­
son decides between them. I would call it naturalite, and venture the name of
oupematuroUte to marveHousaees once bestowed upon it by Dr. Bpurzhelm. I
have no facts to offer in support ofthis organ ; and merely add, that, with vitative*
mss, it increases the number of the human faculties to forty.
I ^ y m f r o ^ t s e r v ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
New York,Dec. 9,1836.
11*
Digitized by b o o d l e
250 phrenology illustrated,
embrace the privilege of submitting this, and all similar
points» to the decisions of the unerring tribunal offact*,
Remarks upon m wonderful W isdom and Beauty
DISPLAYED IN THE LOCATION AND GROUPING OF THE
Organs,
Throughout the worksofnature, we find perfectsimplici­
ty and perfect arrangement combined with perfect harmony
and perfect adaptation: therefore, if phrenology is true, the
impress ofthe Deity must be stamped, not only uponthe na­
ture and functions of the various faculties themselves, but,
also, upon the location and grouping together, or classified>
tion and arrangement, oftheir respective organs inthehead.
If, thep, we find, that this perfection of arrangement and
adaptation which is everywhere displayed in nature’s works,
holds good in the location and classification of the phreno­
logical organs, we infer that this is the handiwork of the
great Creator, and a part of his great system of things, or,
that phrenology is true ; and, vice versa, if we find imper­
fection and a want of adaptation in the location and arrange­
ment of the various organs, the fair inference is, that the
whole is a man-made theory, stamped with inconsistency and
incongruity, or, a mere chimera of an infatuated brain.
Let us look, then, at the real facts in the case. The an­
imal passions and propensities unquestionably constitute the
most mferiour class of the mental functions; and, according­
ly, we find the organs ofthese faculties all grouped together,
and occifpying the lower and back portion of the head, or,
if we may be allowed the expression, the least honourable
portion of the brain: whilst, on the other hand, the organs
of the moral and religious sentiments and of the reasoning
faculties, the functions of which are of a far higher order
than any other classes of the intellectual operations, and
even constitute the crowning excellence of man,are grouped
together, and occupy the highest portion of the brain.
Again, the organs of the intellectual faculties are located
together in the anterior portion of the head, or in the fore-
head—a portion better fitted for the abode of the intellec­
tual organs than any other. And not only so, but the ar­
rangement of the several classes of the intellectual organs,
is most wonderful and systematick. The eye forms one
great medium of communication with the external world
Digitized by LooQle
GROUPING OF THE ORGANS. 251
and is almost the only instrument which the percepti\re fac­
ulties employ in the performance of their appropriate func­
tions. Accordingly, all the organs which take cognizance
of physical objects and their qualities, are grouped together,
and located about the eye—their principal and mostobedient
servant.
The reasoning organs, again, are located between the per­
ceptive organs upon the one hand, and the moral upon the
other, being thus prepared to reason, either upon the natural
facts and phenomena which may be observed and collected
by the perceptive faculties, or upon moral and theological
subjects presented by the moral organs.
The beauty and perfection of this arrangement, are dis­
played in a manner no less striking when considered with
respect to the individual organs. The organs of all the
faculties, for example, which are directly concerned in per­
forming any of the domestick functions, are clustered into
one neighbourhood in the lower portion of the hind head.
Amat., which takes the lead in the animal economy, is lo­
cated in the lowest portion ofthe brain, and philopro., which
comes next, and greatly assists in carrying out the designs
of amat., is located by its side. Adhes., which, in its nature
and object, is closely allied to the two preceding organs, we
find located in the same group ; and inhab. completes both
this group of organs and this class of functions. Thus we
have presented to us the interesting picture of all the social
and domestick organs grouped together in, as it were, a
family circle.
The organs of the selfish propensities are likewise found
linked together,with secret, in their midst,asif forconcealing
and scheming, and occupying the central portion of the side
head. Combat, anddestruct., twin-brothers in characterand co-
equalsas heroes,are seen marchingup sideby side. Moreover,
one important object of destruct. is to supply aliment, with
food. Hunger greatly increases the action of destruct., but,
when aliment, is fully satiated, even beasts of prey, except
when provoked, will seldom exercise this organ. Accord­
ingly, infinite wisdom has placed these organs side by side,
and thus greatly facilitated their reciprocal intercourse. If
secret, had been located among the moral or intellectual or­
gans, which seldom, if ever, require its aid, it would haye
been out of place; but, instead of this, it is found among the
propensities, which frequently and mainly require its action.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
353 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
And is there nothing superhuman in all this? Cautions.,
like a faithful sentinel, takes its appropriate stand between
the domestick, animal, and moral organs—a most advan­
tageous post, from which to overlook them all, and warn
them of approaching danger. Between the functions of ap-
probat. and self-e., and, also,betweenthoseofself-e. andfirm.,
there exists, at least, a family resemblance; and,accordingly,
we find approbat and self-e. located side by side, and self-e.
and firm, adjoining each other: and, moreover, the location
of firm, near the moral organs, which sofrequently demand
its action, is certainly an admirable arrangement.
See the moral organs, also, all grouped together like a
band of brothers, illustrating the principle, that “union is
strength,” constitutinga great moral phalanx, and occupying
a position between the selfish organs uponthe one hand, and
the intellectual upon the other, inorder that they may purify
and sanctify the action of both.
Construct., which often demands the assistance of theper­
ceptive and of the reasoning faculties, and is itself, in part,
intellectual, is accordingly located near its kindred, theintel­
lectual organs. The same is true of ideal. Mirth., also,
which assists reason in detecting errour, is located next to
the reasoning organs. Event., again, the reservoir or great
intellectual warehouse of the facts collected by the percep­
tive faculties, and upon which the reflective organs are
obliged tomake frequent and copiousdraughts, is located be­
tween the reflective and the perceptive faculties; and, last of
all, compar. and caus., torch-bearers to all the other mental
faculties, occupy a position most advantageous for the per­
formance of their appropriate functions.
Now, it must be recollected, that one organ was discover­
ed in one portion of the head, and another, in another por­
tion, and at periods widely different, but, on examination,
each propensity is found to be in the group of the propensi­
ties, each sentiment,amongits kindred sentiments, andall the
intellectual faculties together in the forehead, and, in fact,
not a single organ straggling abroadat random. If acquis.,
for example, had been found among the moral organs, con-
scien. among the propensities, any of the intellectual organs
among the animal or selfish organs, or amat in the fore­
head, this irregularity would have shown a radical defect in
the system, and proved its origin to be human; but, as it is,
we findall its parts perfectly arranged, and uniting in a per-
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
DIRECTIONS TO EXAMINERS. 2»
feet whole, affording a new proof of the truth, and illustra­
tion of the principles, of this sublime science, and evincing
that it is the handiwork of infinite wisdom.
DIRECTIONS TO EXAMINERS.
In ascertaining the character of individuals from their
phrenological developments, the general size of the whole
head shouldfirst beobserved,and then,the relative size ofits
several farts according to the classification adopted in this
work. The temperament, health, habits, education, &c., of
the individual, should be next attended to. After these, the
relative size of each organ may be observed; and then the
effect of the combinations as described in this volume. This
last point is of paramount importance.
In applying the fingers to the head, the balls should be
used instead of the ends.
The firstjoint ofthesecond finger,shouldbeplaced uponthe
middleofthe organ examined, and the first and third finger,
upon the sidesofthe organ, while the portion ofthe fingers be­
tween the first joint and the end, should measure the farther
side of the organ, and the portion within the first joint,
ascertain the dimensions of the side of the organ next to the
examiner.
It should also be remembered, that, when an organ isvery
large, and an adjoining one is small, the large one frequent­
ly so extends itself as to occupy much of the ground which
the other would have occupied m casethe relativesize ofthe
organs had been reversed, or, it apparently crowds the other
from its natural position. For example; when ideal, is
large, and construct, small, the latter retires before the en­
croachments of the former, and ideal, falls lower than it is
usually found; but, if construct, is large, and ideal, small,
construct, extends itself upwards, and ideal, is crowded into
narrower limits. Yet the shape imparted to the head by
large construct, and small ideal., differs greatly from thatim­
parted bylarge ideal, and small construct.
Again, when, for example, both construct, and ideal, are
large or very large, that part of the head in which these
organs are located, will be greatly widened and deepened,
yet there may be but one protuberance for both organs.
Where several adjoining organs are large or very large,
Digitized by L.ooQle
254 HINTS TO EXAMINERS.
protuberances seldom exist, but the whole head in that le­
gion will be enlarged; whereas, when only one organ is
large, and an adjoining one is small, a depression will be
plainly perceptible.
Again, when several adjoining organs are small or very
small, there will be no apparent depressions; but the region
of the head in which they are located, will be low and re­
tiring. Protuberances, then, are by no means the only indi­
cations of a large development of the organs, nor depres­
sions, of the want of their development.
The most successful method of gaining a speedy know­
ledge of the location of the organs, is, first to learn, with as
much precision as possible, the location ofsome of the larger
organs, such as firm., benev., destruct., cautious, individ.,
compar., &c., and then, by taking these as landmarks, calcu­
late the relative location of the organs that are between and
around them. To learn the location of many of these more
important organs, and, also, their usual appearance in their
extremes of development, the amateur will find to be com­
paratively an easy task; and yet, to learn the location and
appearance of all the organs in all their various degrees of
development, the operation of all the organs in all their
combinations, the influence of temperament, health, educa­
tion, habits, controlling circumstances, &c., and that, too, in
all their almost infinite varieties, affords ample scope for the
most vigorous exercise of the greatest genius and the highest
order of intellect through, at least, as long a period of life
as that allowed to the most favoured of mortals: and if one
might wish to prolong his stay on earth for any object, sure­
ly, the study of phrenology, with the utmost propriety, might
constitute that object.
B U STS.
Although the private instruction of an experienced phre­
nologist, is almost indispensable tothe acquisition ofa practi­
cal knowledge of this science, yet, when this cannot be had,
a bust is the next-best assistant, and is an article which every
learner should have by him. Those in general use in this
country, are defective in two important respects: 1. The %
general shape of the head represented by them, differs ma­
terially from that of the American head, and, consequently,
cannot convey a very distinct or correct knowledge of the
Digitized by L.ooQle
HINTS TO EXAMINERS.
appearance assumed by the organs in American subjects.
2. They are marked in a very indistinct manner, and that
with figures, so that reference must be constantly made to
the booh These two defects, the authors, with J. A.
Brevort, have attempted to supply by publishing a bust
modelled upon the most usual form of the American head,
and presenting the organs as found in this country, and with
the name ofeach organ written upon the bust, as well as the
grouping, or classification of the organs as adopted in this
work—which it is designed to accompany.
Instead of representing the several organs as separated
by lines, this bust presents them in the form of protube­
rances, in shape and appearance resembling the organs as
they are found in the head when large.
By this means the learner may at once ascertain the form
and appearance of the organs when fully developed. This
kind is generally preferred to the plain ones, which they
also have. In aditon they are also preparing a set of
busts in which each organ will be represented when both
large and small, and also moderate. These busts may be
examined, and also purchased, at their office 210, Chesnut-st.
Pha., & 226 Broadway, N. Y.
255
#
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
256 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
FACTS IN PROOF AND ILLUSTRATION OF
PHRENOLOGY.
Having given the analysis of the different faculties, and
presented the phenomena produced by their combined activi­
ty, the way is thus prepared forthe reader to understand the
character of individuals from a description or statement of
their phrenological developments,and for theauthors to give
afar more concise and intelligible description of the facts
which have fallen under their observation than could have
been previouslypresented. In detailingthesefacts,theydeem
it not inappropriate to commence with a brief account of
their own conversion to the phrenological faith,'and then to
present a few of their own observations and experiments.
When entering upon his senior year in Amherst College,-
oneofthe authors, (O.S. Fowler,)awarethat the studyofmen­
tal philosophy was to engage a large share of his attention
during that year, tookup the subject of phrenology with the
view of comparing it with other systems upon the philoso­
phy of the mind, and, in order to test its truth, began to com­
pare the phrenological developments of his fellow-students,
with what he knew of their characters, and, to his admira­
tion and delight, discovered, at every successive step of
his observations and experiments, a perfect coincidence be­
tween the two. He noticed, for example, that one of his
classmates possessed very large local., combined with large
individ, form, size, construct., and imitât. ; and this young
gentleman was distinguished for his geographical knowl­
edge, having drawn and published several maps. Two of
his fellow-students who were notorious throughout the col­
lege for their egotism and self-conceit, on examination, were
found to possess the organ of self-e. in such a degree as to
elongate the head in the direction of this organ. He
had always found the room of one of his most intimate
friends in the college, (H. W. Beecher,) in the greatest dis­
order, his clothes, books, &c., strewed about in all directions
and in utter confusion—some upon the floor, others inchairs
or the windows, and others under or upon the bed, &c. ;
and, in accordance with this, his organ of order was almost
wholly wanting; but, for power of thought, cogency of ar­
gument, clearness of illustration, and eloquence and splen­
dour of diction, as well as for benevolence, humour, and
Digitized by Google
BY FACTS. 257
sense of"character, he had few equals in the institution:
to support this character phrenologically, his head was very
large; and in it, the organs of caus., compar., ideal., and
lang., mirth., benev., and approbat., were also very large. -
A Mr. Brooks, confessedly one ofthe best mathematicians
in his class, was found, however, to possess but a moderate
development of calcu., which, at first, greatly perplexed the
narrator, as phrenology was here considered, by all parties,
at fault; but, upon inquiry it was ascertained, that Mr. B.
excelled only in mathematical demonstrations, while his
arithmetical calculations were performed by the slow pro­
cess of rules. This phenomenon is explained on page 204,
under calcu. moderate, combined with large or very large
compar. and caus. Dr. Humphrey, the venerable President
of the institution here alluded to, is considered, whereverhe
is known, pre-eminentboth as a divine and a metaphysician,
and is equally admired for his piety and his talents—for the
strength and originality of his intellect, and the energy,
decision,and goodness of his character: in accordance with
which, his head is unusually large; in it, compar., caus.,
conscien., henev., and firm., are very large, self-e.,- ideal.,
ven., and lang., large, and his temperament, active. The
combination under self-e. large at the bottom of page 115,
occurs in his head, and the accompanyingdescription applies
to his character. He possesses, also, very large philopro.
and adhes., and,in accordance with this,may be emphatical­
ly said to be afather and a firmfriend tothe students under
his care.
After leaving college, the narrator was urged to deliver
publick lectures upon phrenology, and also to test the truth
of the science by applying its principles to the development
of individual character. The first person he examined in
publick, was a young gentleman brought forwardby the op­
ponents of phrenology on account of his obstinacy; and
this was the first trait of his character pointed out by the
examiner. On a visit to a family shortly after this, the wrl*
ter pointed out a large development of secret, in a servant
girl ; upon which the lady of the house remarked, that the
girl's only fault was, that she would sometimes falsify,
equivocate, and conceal. He next examined the heads of a
family distinguished for their mechanical ingenuity, and
found large construct, and imitat. in all of them. 1 H *
While in Lansingburgh, N. Y., at a publick lecture, hat
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
was requestedto express his opinion of the character of a
lady present, and, without hesitation, he pronounced her
marvel., ven., and conscien. very large. He was afterwards
informed, both by herself and others who knew her, that she
had experienced wonderful religious exercises, believed in
dreams, and the revelation of the divine will and purposes
by means of signs, omens, and forewarnings of various
sorts. She even fancied herselfthe special subject ofdivine
communication and influence. Her religious conversion
was, to her, most wonderful, attended with dreams, visions,
revelations, and so forth; and religious feeling of the most
enthusiastick and extravagant kind,occupiedher mind almost
to the exclusion of every other ¡subject. <* =
A case directly opposite to this, was found in a Mr. Law ,
in whom marvel, was extremely deficient. He was not
only extremely incredulous, but incapable of being affected
by any thing bordering upon the supernatural. As an
example : he was awakened one night by a noise in his
room; heard something fall heavily upon the floor; saw
a human scull, and heard a rustling, rattling sound proceed­
ing from it; and at length saw it move, and open and shut
its mouth; and yet, without the least alarm or fear, he arose
from his bed, walkedtothe scull, and took itup, when, instead
of a spirit, behold, a large—rat escaped from it!
In Waterford, Dr. Upham introducedtothe writer a young
gentleman who, withoutinstruction, hadcopied, with remark­
able accuracy, the likenesses of Rubens, Chaucer, Sterne,
and several others; and, from a mere boy, he had displayed
extraordinary ingenuity in constructing, inventing,drawing,
copying, and so forth. His organs of construct, and imitat.
were developed in a, high degree; and these were aided by
large perceptive and reflective faculties.
While lecturing in Troy, he examined the head of a
young lady in Mrs. Willard’s seminary, and remarked that
her ideal.,compar., and lang., were very large; and that,con­
sequently, she would be, not only very fond of poetry, but
also able to compose it. Thosepresent, pronounced the deci­
sion a failure. Some months after, however, the narrator
was informed by an intimate friend of the young lady, that
she had composed poetry enough to fill a volume, but that,
at the time of the examination, her most intimate acquaint­
ances knew nothing of the matter. Another young lady
in the same institution, was pointed out as being deficient
5258 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by Google
BY FACTS. 269
in hope, and having an excess of cautious. She was subject
to extreme depression of spirits, and was easily discouraged.
But the strongest illustration and proof of the truth of
phrenology furnished in Troy, was found in the phrenolo­
gical developments of Professor Eaton, the distinguished
botanist and naturalist. H e possesses about the largest organ
of form that the writer has ever seen, and an extreme de­
velopment of individ., size, order, calcu., local., event., corn-
par., and lang., and only full caus.; and his works upon bot­
any and natural science, as well as his general knowledge of
almost all the sciences, furnish ample evidence, that he must
possess, in an extraordinary degree, the powers of mind im­
parted by the perceptive and semi-perceptive faculties. In the
professor’s head, the organ of calcu. is also unusually large;
and, in accordance with this development, at a very early age,
he commenced his publick career by publishing a treatise
upon mathematicks, and by entering the government service
as a surveyor. H is extensive erudition, and especially the
immense amount of facts he has at command, illustrate
the use lie has made of his individ. and event.; while his
extraordinary colloquial powers, together with the fertility
of his prolifick pen, furnish abundant proof of his possessing
a very large faculty of lang. But, while his very large
perceptive faculties, aided by very large event., give him
a wonderful talent in collecting facts and statistical informa­
tion, and his very large compar., in classifying these facts,
his retiring caus. is the cause of that failure of originality
and profundity of thought and array of first principles so
clearly manifested in his works: see p. 53, 185. In the
professor’s head, love of approbation, adhe?., benev., and
hope, arc prominent organs; in his character, the qualities
which flow from their respective faculties, are pre-eminent;
but his secret, is sm all; and frankness and candour arc
emphatically characteristick in this gentleman. In short,
his head is very uneven: (p. 54 :) the portion about the eye
projects in an extraordinary manner, and this forms a most
striking phrenological coincidence with his known charac­
ter and talents.
One other case in Troy m aybe worthy of notice. In the
head of a young lady remarkable for her talents in drawing,
painting, and embroidery, the organs of ideal., imitat., and
construct., were found to be very large.
In Hudson the writer examined the head of Dr. W hite,
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
which he observed to be very large ; and in it, very large
firm., large combat., self-e., and an extraordinary develop­
ment of size. This gentleman is the founder of the Luna-
tick Asylum in Hudson, and, by the influence of his firm,
and self-e., has succeeded in keeping his wayward patients
under subjection. He obligingly related to the writer
many instances iürwhichhis extraordinary facultyofsize had
strikingly displayed its power. When riding at full speed
past a new building, his eye caught a window frame in the
> second story, which was not exactly plumb, upon which he
stopped, and pointed out the inaccuracy to the workman
who had made it, and who, by applying his plumb-line,
was convinced of the inaccuracy, and accordingly corrected
it. He once employed a man to build a fence, whose top
should present a water-level, around the yard in the rear of
his Asylum. On an inspection ofthe fence, after the work­
man had laboured with his instruments for more than half
a day, and, as he believed, effected a complete level, the
exact eye of the doctor instantly detected an unevenness in
it, but of which he failed to convince his builder until, by
another and more accurate measurement, he was enabled to
discover and correct the errour. In the doctor’shead, order
is largely developed; and the perfect regularity and neat­
ness of his establishment, amply illustrate the marked in­
fluence of this faculty.
In the Asylum here alludtd to, the writer saw a young
gentleman who possessed very large ideal., construct.,
imitât., compar., andperceptive faculties, together with very
large cautious, and small hope: and such was his passion
for the fine arts, to indulge which, he wished to visit Italy
and the various galleries of the fine arts,that when restrain­
ed by his mother, it had produced the partial insanity under
which he then laboured. The narrator saw a beautiful and
accurate specimen of miniature painting which the young
gentleman had executed while suffering under this partial
derangement.
In the same institution, he also saw one of the patients
who possessed very large combat, and destruct., and who
was sullen and fierce, and subject to violent out-breakings
ofpassionwhich sweptevery thing beforethem. Anelderly
female, also, in the Asylum, similarly organized, with the
addition of large lang., frequently displayed her ferocityand
violence of temper, by pouring out upon those around her,
360 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by b o o d l e
BT FACTS. 261
a turbid torrent of abusive eloquence that might have
passed for prize-speeches in the halls of Pandemonium.
At one of his publick lectures, the writer described a
gentleman as possessing a very large organ of philopro.:
and it was afterwards stated, that, on account of his child-
loving and child-cherishing propensity, he was noted
throughout the neighbourhood, as a real Rip Van Winkle,
as he seldom appeared abroad without a troop of children
at his heels: see p. 63, philopro. very large. ,
In Hudson,thewriter wasalso calledtoexaminethe family
of a butcher. One of the little lads was described as hav­
ing very large destruct.: and it appeared that his delight in
seeing cattle slaughtered, was so great, that, to enjoy this,
he would forego almost any other, pleasure. Even whilst
undergoing examination, he expressed great impatience and
dissatisfaction, because he could not be present at the butch­
ering of an ox; and was pacified only by being told that
another would soon be killed. At the same time, another
child ofthe family not three years old, had caught a small pig
in the street, and, with a dull case-knife, was endeavouring
to cut its throat—whether in imitation of his betters, or in
i>ure gratification ofhisdestruct., (which was very large,) is
eftto bedetermined bythe judgment of the reader. These
last two facts, however, have a directbearing upon education.
In Lansingburgh, in the office of Dr. Smith, (who took
lessons of the writer, and immediately after, commenced the
practice of phrenology,) there was a lad about nine years
of age, of Irish ‘parentage,, who had a large head and a
very active temperament, very large compar., caus., individ.,
event., lang., firm., self-e., approbat., and destruct., and large
combat : (see p. 114, near the bottom.) From the time
be was old enough to read at all, he had devoted him­
self almost exclusively to the perusal of books; and, for
one of his age, was a perfect literary gourmand. But, of
all kinds of reading, historical, which generally presents
little else than a detail x>f sanguinary conflicts and bloody
strifes, possessed the greatest charms for him: and in this
department of knowledge, he was a prodigy. 4
1The pomp
and circumstance of war,” the thronging legions rushing on
to the fight, andtba bloody carnage of the battle-field, were
circumstances that fired his imagination, andseemed to feast
his soul. But againstthe British nation in particular, he
burned with hot indignation* and frequently expressed a de-
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
362 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRAfED
»ire, were it lawful for him, to kill every Englishman Hs
should meet. He often inquired whether he had the facul­
ties that would constitute him a general, and talked with
enthusiasm about leading on the armies of his country to
fight against England. A single incident will serveto show
how completely engrossed his mind was with wars, battles,
and conquests. Between meals, he hod purchased a flat
cake; and, before eating it, he cut various figures upon it:
and when asked their meaning, said they represented a
camp, and proceeded to describe its several parts. In man­
ners, he was a perfect gentleman; and his intellectual pow­
ers were altogether extraordinary.
While examining the pupils of a school in L., a young
Miss of about thirteen, was described as remarkably benevo­
lent, as the organ of benev. was so largely developed as to
produce a deformity of the head. In accordance with this,
it appeared that, young as she wa3, she was more distin­
guished for her attentions to the poor and afflicted than all
other charitable persons in the place. When out of school,
and especially in cold weather, her principal occupation
was seeking out, dnd administering to the wants of, proper
objects of charity* and exciting others to supply those wants
which her own limited means did not enable her to reach. -
Another pupil in the same school, was described as com­
paratively destitute of the organs of caus. and compar., and,
consequently, unable to think, or understand her lessons.
The whole school heartily responded to the correctness of
these remarks; and the instructress observed, that, after be­
stowing upon her all the pains and instruction in her pow­
er, even until her patience was exhausted, the poor girPfc
progress was scarcely perceptible. Her talents were con­
trasted by the writer, with those of another pupil, whom the
teacher afterwards pronounced to be the best scholar in her
seminary. ^ .
At a publick lecture in Catskill, one ofthe clergymen of
the place, who was a total stranger to the narrator, was
proposed for examination; and so accurately were the
various traits of his private character described, as well as
the peculiarities of his style and manner of preaching, that
the audience could scarcely be persuaded but that the phre­
nologist had long been familiarly acquainted with him.
A young lady was sent by her friends tothe office of this
writer for examination, and was pronounced to be stubborn.
* Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
haughty, and incapable of reasoning orbeing reasoned with
—having but little benev., mirth., caus., compar., ideal.,
imitât., and construct., large combat, and destruct., and very
large self-e. and approbat. But, although a believer in
phrenology, it is not at all singular thatsheshould have been
dissatisfied with this description of her character. Accord­
ingly, she attributed its unfavourable features tothe mistake
of the examiner,and was easily persuaded to return again to
the office, accompanied by her mother. The second exami­
nation, however, fully confirmed the unenviable points ofthe
first description, and tended only to make her case worse:
upon which her mother took occasion to administer to her a
salutary reproof, by reminding her of the innumerable in­
stances in which she had displayed the unhappy traits of
character which had been pointed out by the phrenologist.
The daughter appeared humbled, and promised to reform.
This incident suggests one of the important results to be
gained by a judicious application of the principles of phre­
nology.
At a publick lecture in Amsterdam, N. Y., a distinguish­
ed physician ofthe village w*as examined, and described as a
benevolent man. This astonished most of the auditors, who
considered him quite the reverse; and this opinion, it ap­
peared, they had formed of him from thè fact, that, to the
popular, benevolent objects of the day, and especially to such
as were connected with religious purposes, he had seldom
been known to give any money. Farther inquiry, however,
soon showed, that the reason for his not giving to such pur­
poses, was, he did not believe them to be benevolent objects;
but it was notorious, that he gave more medical advice and
servicestothe poor,than all theother physicians inthe place,
and was, moreover, a kind and obliging neighbour. This
examination produced a change in the mind of the commu­
nity with respect to the gentleman, inasmuch as it showed
them, that we are notto measure a man’s benevolence by the
amount of money he is ready to give to any popular object
of charity, foç this amount may be, and often is, exactly
graduated by his pride, his desire of applause, or some
other selfish motive, 'wheréas, true, phrenological benevo­
lence operates in proportion to the strength of the primitive
faculty, as modified Dythè other faculties, and its direction
also depends uponthe other faculties. The ladyofthe same
gentleman, possesses very large construct., imitât., ideal.,
Digitized by b o o g i e
204 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
and form, and large c&us. and compar.; and, in accordance
with the talents imparted by this organization, she displays
remarkable ingenuity with the needle, &c., and has often re­
ceived premiums for her specimens of embroidery, &c.
At tne close of the same lecture, a lad was brought for­
ward by his instructress. The only remark made on his
phrenological developments, was,that he possessed construct,
and imitat. very large, and, consequently, was remarkably
ingenious. H is teacher then remarked, that the lad was
uneasy and restless in school, inattentive to his books, and
strongly prone to cut the benches; but, that the moment he
was released from school, he would repair to his workshop,
and there indulge his mechanical propensity.
At a publick examination, the writer, among other quali­
ties, attributed to a clergyman examined, small lang. The
audience readily assented to the remarkable accuracy of the
description except on this point; but here they dissented, and
declared him to be one of the most rapid speakers in that
section of the country. Determined to ascertain the fact in
the case, the writer heard him deliver his next sermon,
which fully satisfied him of the correctneas of his phreno
logical induction. Although his manner of speaking was
very rapid, to be sure, yet his style was by no means copiaus
or flowing; but, on the contrary, evinced a dryness and
barrenness.
In the same place, one of the authors (L. N. Fowler)
finding the organs of secret and acquis., in the head of a
young female, not sufficiently balanced by the moral and
intellectual organs, described her as deceitful and light-fin­
gered. In the sequel, it turned out that she had frequently
been guilty of lying and theft: handkerchiefs, table-cloths,
pillow-cases, gloves, hose, and sundry other small articles
which she could conveniently lay her hands upon, had been
found in her possession.
At a publick lecture in the same place, a gentleman nom­
inated by the audience, came forward with his face covered,
and was described as very zealous inwhatever he undertook,
and rather ultra and radical in his views and feelings. His
combat., destruct., firm., self-e., caus., adhes., and lang., were
large; his benev., conscien., hope, and compar., very large,
ana his secret., small. He was described as a leader in the
church, and as extremely liableto give offencein consequence
of his dealing so plainly with all; as a great temperance
man, &c.' and all this was asserted without the examiner’s
having previously had the least hint or knowledge of his
character. In regard to the description given, there was
but one voice from the audience, and that was, that it was
perfectly correct throughout. H e was a new-measure pres-
byterian, and an elder in the church, and a very zealous
Christian ; and, moreover, was one of the greatest temperance
men in all that section of the country.
In Schenectady, L. N. Fowler examined the head of a
gentleman, the extraordinary and singular shape of which
arrested his attention. It was extremely high, very long, and
very narrow. Philopro., self-o., benev., individ., and event.,
were developed in a very high degree, whilst acquis, and
secret, were very small. His philopro., in fact, was the
largest the phrenologist had ever seen; and, in illustration
of the extraordinary manner in which this faculty displayed
itself, it was stated that he frequently went about the city
with two little dogs in his overcoat pockets, and two more in
his hands. Of children he was so excessively fond, that he
always made the greatest parade over them, and generally
had a whole bevy of them in his train. His very large
self-e., combined with his small secret, and moderate reason­
ing faculties, made him prodigiously egotistical, and utterly
blind to his faults, as well as to the application of the jokes
to which his peculiarities and faults exposed him. In con­
sequence of his very large benev. and very small acquis., he
was incapable of keeping money, or of laying it out with any
tolerable judgment. H e even squandered all he could com­
mand : and, when any thing took his fancy, he could easily
be imposed upon to almost any extent by the unjust demands
of any sharper into whose clutches he might have the mis­
fortune to fall. H e had but little adhes.; and, accordingly,
formed but few attachments, and those few so slightly, that
they were broken off whenever freak or fancy dictated. His
cautious, was sm all; and, in his business, he was perfectly
reckless.
At a publick examination in the same city, a gentleman
was described as having extraordinary size and local., (see p.
191, 206.) The next morning, when passing by a carpenter’s
shop, he was hailed by one of the workmen, and, mainly in
derision of phrenology, requested to pronounce upon the
length of a rod, which was about seven feet long, by a mere
cast of the eye. He did so, and came within one-fourth of
12
Digitized by Google
a* ¿»ck of it» actual length. Considering this striking kit
merely accidental, tbe workmen desired him to designate
the central point of a board of considerable length: and he
came within half an inch of the middle one way, and one-
righlh of an inch the other wav. Still deeming it mere
"guess work,” they demanded the middle of a long work­
bench ; and, in this attempt, he came within three-quarters
of an inch in respect to the length, and one-quarterof an rack
of the breadth. As an illustration of his local., it was as
sertedthathe knewwhere every person inthat city and section
of the country, lived, and that he was referred to by all his
fellow-citizens as a sort of location-dictionary. \
The next day, the occurrence in the workshop, was rela­
ted to the narrator in the presence of a gentleman who con­
sidered phrenology a mere humbug, and who tauntingly
asked, if the phrenologist could tell him hi%character. ft
was remarked in reply, that his constructive talent, or me­
chanical ingenuity, was the leading talent he possessed:
upon which a friend of his present, astonished at the accu­
racy of the remark, stated that he was the inventor of about
a dozen patent rights.
While in Albany, in 1835, L. N. Fowler examined a man
in the Museum, to whom he gave very large secret., acquis,
combat., destruct., firm., and amat., with small conscien. and
only moderate bener., and described him as selfish, artful,
intriguing, and deceitful; as able and inclined to employ
cunning and hypocrisy in every thing, but more especially
in getting money: statedthat he always effected his purposes
in an indirect way, and under false pretences, and w*as al­
ways ready to adopt any unfair means by which to possess
himself of money. No more was heard of this personage
by the phrenologist till, in the summer of 1836, while trav­
elling in one of the packet-boats from Columbia to Harris­
burg, Pa., at which time a boat-captain, who was present at
the examination alluded to, gave the narrator the following
account of one of the high-handed tricks ofthis sly-dodging
money-catcher. He stated that, during the preceding win­
ter, this artful scoundrel started on a travelling expedition to
Boston, with two teams, one of which he drove himself, and
the other was managed by an accomplice. When near B.,
be caused one team to halt for a day, whilst, with the other,
he proceeded to the city. When arrived in the literary
emporium, he represented himself to several wholesale gro­
tm mmcoLoer fh o v h d aw p il l u s t r a t e d
Digitized by Google
BT FACTS. 26T*
cers, as a heavy dealer in their line from the interiour;
stated that he had honoured them with a visit for the purpose
of making a large purchase; that he had several teams
upon the road, one or two of which would be in the next
d ay ; that, as despatch was important to a man of his en­
terprise, he should like to proceed forthwith to business.
The next day arrived, and in came the other team, and the
driver, being previously instructed, represe nted to the Bos­
tonian merchants, that the other teams were behind, one of
which had been detained by an accident, and parted company
with him only the day before. Thus far, every thing ap­
peared fair and smooth. Both teams were accordingly load­
ed and started for the country, before settlement was made:
and so rapidly were they pushed forward, and so admirably
were things managed, that the scoundrels evaded the alert­
ness of their creditors.
But the Boston merchants were not all that had cause
long to remember the redoubtable heroes of this expedition
to the East. As they were wending their way back with
their ill-gotten lading of teas, liquors, and spices, they chanc­
ed to light upon a country village just at nightfall, when
they announced themselves as M ethodist preachers, and pro­
posed to tarry there that night and the next day, and the
next night to edify the good people by holding a meeting
with them. On account of the high and sacred character of
our way farers, they were most hospitably entertained by one
of the most respectable members of the connexion in that
place. And it came to pass, that the next morning, “ rising
up a long while before day,” they wrent forth to meditate ; but
prayer seemed to be the most distant thing from their hearts,
instead of kneeling down, and offering up their holy orisons,
they seemed to be more devoutly engaged in laying schemes
to complete their assortment of merchandise. “ Armed with
this strong intent,” they proceeded to the smoke-house of their
pious host, and took thence a large quantity of ham, and,
also, divers lots of poultry from his barnyard, and straight­
way proceeded “ on their way rejoicing.” Thus they
peregrinated from place to place, committing petty larcenies,
and practising all manner of deceptions and impostures,
until they arrived at Albany.— For the correctness of the
statement concerning the examination, the reader is referred
to the manager of the Albany Museum.
At North Adams, where there are many factories, the
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
narrator pointed out, in the head of a physician, extraordina­
ry mathematical and astronomical powers; anda large au­
dience of his fellow citizens testified that his talents and
fondnessfor pursuitsof this nature, wereuncommonly great
In him the organ of weight was very large; and he stated
publiekly, that he had left a lucrative profession, and enga­
ged in manufacturing, chiefly to indulge his fondness for
machinery.
The young ladies who had been employed in the factories
for many years, were found to possess large concent., whilst
new-comers generally had it small.—This fact affords an
important hint to those who wish to cultivate this organ.
Confined for a long time to a single operation, concent was
called into constant requisition, and thus became enlarged.
At a publick lecture in Adams, a gentleman was descri­
bed as having concent, very large (see p. 70.) The next day
while riding in the stage with him,the writer had an oppor­
tunity of witnessing a perfect illustration of the organ in
question. The gentleman was disposed to dwell long upon
every topick ofconversation that was introduced; and when
a new subject was brought forward, he would somehow con­
trive to make it bear upon the previous topick: and after
halting, upon returning tothe stage, he would generally take
up the subject again at the point where it had been dropped.
At an examination in Pittsfield, a child was described
as having extraordinary form, and, consequently, as capable
of learning its letters easily. Its mother remarked, that
when she commenced teaching it the alphabet, to her aston­
ishment, she foundit had already learned all its letters with­
out any instruction.
Among others examined in the city of New York in the
spring of 1835, was a gentleman, in whom time, individ.,
lang., event., local, compar., and concent., were all very
large. He is accustomed not only to narrate a great deal,
but, also, almost always to tell the year, month, and day of
the month in which the transaction narrated, occurred. His
very large concent, and reasoning faculties make him fre­
quently absent-minded; but his greatest peculiarity is,that he
can attend to but one thing at a time. For example: he is
utterly unable to take the sense of what he reads, until he
has locked his door, muzzled his bell, and given strict orders
not to be disturbed. His amat. and adhes. are very large,
which, joined with his very large concent., cause him still
2$8 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLU8' .ATED
Digitized by Google
BY TACTS. 269
tobrdod over the untimely death of the object ofhis early at­
tachment, even though the event occurred some twenty years
since.
He sent to his sister the witten description of his char­
acter, requesting her opinion of its accuracy, to which she
replied, “ You ask my opinion of your character as given
by the phrenologist: I think it correct in every particular;
indeed, strikingly so.”
While waiting upon a party of ladies, in N. Y., in one of
them the organ of order was pointed out as very large, in­
deed, so remarkable that the attention of the party was
several times called to it. She was accordingly described
as excessively neat and particular—as fastidious, and even,
in this particular, old-maidish: (seeordervery large, p. 199,
especially the closing description, p. 200.)
The following day, a gentleman who had known her for
many years, (she being then upwards of 60,) stated, th*t
when ofan age suitable forforming matrimonial connexions,
she was addressed bya respectable, and even wealthy, young
gentleman, who owned a form, and had around him all the
comforts of life. She accepted an invitation to take a ride
with him; but her organ of order was soexcessivelyannoy­
ed by some burrs which had lodged in the mane of his horsey
that she was as glad to be relieved from the painful specta­
cle, as she could have beenat a release fromprison; and she
immediately gave him letters of dismission.
She was next addressed by a student who was about to
graduate; but in him her organ oforder wras unable to tole­
rate some things which she discovered about his clothes
Thus she rejected in succession, fiveexcellent offers of mat­
rimony, which, in every respect except that of order, (and
even in this they fell not below mediocrity,) were not only
very agreeable, but even desirable.
The city of Philadelphia furnished the writer, O. S. Fow­
ler, with several striking examples of the truth of practical
{>brenology. In the spring of 1835, he opened a course of
ectures there, and, at the close of his first lecture, a Mr.
Pierce, who resides in Chestnut-St near Broad, and who has
been known to the good people of that city by a residence
among them of forty years, came forward. Though a per-,
feet stranger to the lecturer, and a disbeliever in phrenology,
yet, soperfectlycorrectthroughout, wasthedescriptiongiven,
that the next aay, the gentleman was accused score* oftimes
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
by his,fellow citizens, with collusion—with having given *
history of his life to the lecturer, and then presented himselt
as a candidate for examination. His well-known character
for honesty and piety, however, at length gave to phrenolo­
gy the credit of having discovered his character.
He was described as possessing a very large organ of
benev., and as noted for the interest he takes in the welfare
of others, and for the extraordinary tenderness and humani­
ty of his feelings; as having large ven., coascien., and hope,
and, therefore, as eminent for his piety; as having large ox
verylarge ideal., imitat., compar., lang.,andevent.,and,conse­
quently, as possessing unusual descriptive powers, and great
ta^t in relating anecdotes, to the no small amusement of his
friends; as having very large mirth., and though an emi­
nently pious man, devotedly fond both of hearing and telling
comical stories; and that one of his greatest trials—one of
his “most easily besetting sins,” was (which he confessed)
the intrusion of humorous thoughts and feelings upon sol­
emn occasions. ,
Among other subjectsexamined in thatcity, was an elder­
ly gentleman from the country, all of whose perceptive facul­
ties were very large, but among them, weight was develop­
ed in an extraordinary degree. This was distinctly pointed
out, and illustrated by the writer’s saying, that he was one
in ten thousand for his natural talent in horsemanship, and
for those feats of agility, balancing, &c.,.which are practised
in the circus. Upon this, the old gentleman startedfrom his
seat, and, facing the examiner,said,
“Do you know me, sir?”
“ I do not,” was the reply. ^
“On your honour do you say, that you know nothing ot
my character except from feeling my head ?” t ^
“Upon myhonourand my conscience too,nota thing,sif.^
His surprise and astonishment were very great; and, in
illustration of thetruth of what had been stated, he removed;
the papers and books froma portion ofthe table, and although
upwards of sixty years of age, placed his head upon the
table, and elevated his feet into the air, assuming various
gsitions, and yet keeping his balance with perfect ease*
e statedthat, when in the prime of life, lie hadoften jumped
upon a platform the height of his chin, and turning upon his
head without touching his feet to the platform, walked upoa
bis hands and his head, with very little trouble, or difficulty
270 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by L.ooQle
BT FACTS, 271
m keeping hisexactequilibrium. He thentooka silver dol­
lar, and balanced it on ah unusually convex watchniial, and.
gave many other equally striking examples of his extraor­
dinary faculty of weight.
Among others, the head of Mr. Waldie, editor of the
CircoLting Library, and of several other important and
ably conducted periodicals, was examined. His head is of
the largest size, and his brain, active ; which give him the
ability to project and execute undertakings for which a com­
mon sized or sluggish brain is utterly inadequate. All his
perceptive organs are large, and his reasoningorgans, very
large; which impart to him that general literary talent
and correctness of judgment and taste by which his exten­
sive, literary publications are so strikingly characterized.
His very large benev. and adhes. give him that hospitality
and kindness for which he is distinguished among all who
know him, and that enlarged spirit of philanthropy which
shines so conspicuously in his character.
Mr. P., a merchant, called on the lecturer, one side of
whose head was much larger than the other. When this
phenomenon was pointed out, he stated that the larger side
of the head, perspired freely, while the other did not, thus
clearly showing, either that the side which did not perspire,
had grown small by inaction, or that the other had grown
large by exercise. ,
One gentleman was examined in whom time was very
small and tune very large. He had the nicest ear for mu-
sick, indeed, a passionate fondness for it, and could catch
a tune by hearing it sung but once, and yet was unable
tosing withothers,merely because hecouldnotkeepthe beat
During the summer of 1836, the authors witnessed many
unequivocal proofs and illustrations of the truth of phrenol­
ogy inseveral distinguished citizens of Pennsylvania. One
of the moststriking occurred at a private party of gentle­
men and ladies in Carlisle. After nearly all ofthecompany
had been examined, an elderly gentleman, who was a per­
fect stranger to the writer, submitted his head to the mrni-
pulator. 'The first remark of the examiner was, that the
phrenological developments of his head were so extraordi­
nary, that thè common rules of interpretation would not
fully apply to his case. His head was of the largest size*
being seven inches andthree-quarters in diameter, and near­
ly equally developed in all its parts. The propelling and
Digitized by LooQle
tbeintellectual organs wire all foundtobe very targe, iio*
cordingly, it was remarked that he possessed an extraordina­
ry degree of weight of character and greatness of mind, so
that a single town would not bound his influence,but that he
must be among the distinguished men of the nation.
His perceptive faculties beingall large, and his reflective
verylarge,it wasremarked thathe hadan extraordinarytalent
for collecting the facts in any given case; and that his very
large reasoningorgans wouldgivehim greatpoweranddepth
ofintellectandcorrectnessofjudgement His extremely large
compar., in particular, would give him powers of discrimi­
nation and analysis surpassed by none. It is necessary only
to add, that, at the close of his examination, the writer was
introduced to ChiefJustice Gibson of Pennsylvania. Those
acquainted with the talents of this distinguished gentleman,
will at once recognise the Chief Justice in the description
given.
This gentleman was mainly induced to submit to this ex­
amination from havingseenthedescriptiongiventohisbroth­
er at Washington, D. C. While one of the authors was
practising phrenology at Washington, in the fall erf 1836,
m order to give to phrenology a fair test in the ease of a
remarkable character, several individuals prevailed upon
Mr. G. (who is on intimateterms with the President,)tocall
upon the narrator, and obtain a written description of his
character and talents. Among other peculiarities, he was
known betoexcessively fond ofchildren, and this was descri­
bed as one of his strongest passions, and marked at or near
the top ofthe scale; tobe exceedingly incredulous, and even
skeptical, which, accordingly, was dwelt upon with peculiar
emphasis; to be one of the kindest of men, and indifferent
about money, which also was implicitly stated, &c. One
of the partyafterwardswaited upon the examiner, and stated
these and several other particulars of his character, adding,
that the description was singularly correct throughout, and
that President Jackson, on hearing it read, made a similar
remark.
At one ofthe publick examinationsin Carlisle, an elderly
Irish gentleman was nominated, and cameforward without a
coat on, and with every appearance of a day-labourer. He
was described as possessing very large calcu., compar.,
caus., firm., and combat. It was hence inferred, that, con­
trary to his appearance, he was naturally one of the great­
272 PHRENOLOGY PROVEN ARE ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by L.ooQle
m r fa c t «. 2TO
est mathematician« of the age; that he had a powerful in­
tellect joined with obstinacy and fierce animal passion«.
His extraordinary mathematical powers, (very large calcu.,
compar., and caus., combined,) were proved by the fact, that
he had solv<?d several exceedingly difficult and intricate
problems, which had been propounded through the publick
prints for a long time (six years) without finding any equal
tothe task. This he did without the advantages even of a
common education, and while pursuing his daily labour.
His combat, was equally illustrated by his being, when an­
gry, violent in the highest degree, nay, even desperate. As
a boxer he was notorious.
A Mr. William Roberts entered the office, indicating by
his dress and appearance that he was any thing but an en­
gineer, but, almost the first remark of the examiner, was,
that his very large construct., form, size, local., individ.,
weight, and calcu., with his other developments, would quali­
fyhim in a pre-eminentdegree,forasurveyor andan engineer.
The remark excited the greatest astonishment, and it was
then stated that he was an engineer and surveyor ofthe first
order, having an annual salary of $4,000.
In the head of Mr. James Cornelius, the organ of weight
was pointedout asbeingvery large, and in confirmation ofthe
fact, it was stated, that he had never found hisequal forthrow­
ingstones at a mark. His usual wayof killing birds, squir­
rels, &c., was with a stone, so that a gun was useless to
him.
Before the audience the very large organs of construct.,
imitat., caus., and form, were pointed out in a son of Dr.
Foulke, and his talent for using tools, for drawing, &c., was
stated to be seldom equalled. So remarkable were these
faculties in the lad, that they were known to the whole vil­
lage, and it was on this account that he had been proposed
as a subject by which to test the science.
Another lad was examined, whose forehead was low and
narrow, and whose moral organs were only moderate, while
many of the selfish propensities were very strong. His in­
tellect was accordingly manifested in lowabuse,and his pro­
pensities, uncontrolled by moral feeling or intellect, manifest­
ed themselves in theft, lying, &c.
The following is the testimony of one of the^citizens of
Carlisle concerning the examination of a boy in hi« em?
ployment.
Digitized by Google
«74 m i X O L O C T Pm
O
TKP Æ
99 IL L V ST K A T E 9
MA lad who is fifteen year» of age, and has been hi m f
employ eighteen months, and who is very remarkable for
several peculiarities of character, was brought to Mr. Fow­
ler, the phrenologist, who, solely by the aid of his favourite
science, gave a description of bis character in an unequivo­
cal manner, and with an accuracy, which, with all my
knowledge ofthe lad's character from long and close obser­
vation, 1 could not myself have surpassed, if equalled. Mr.
F. has also examined my own head, once in publick and
blindfolded, and again in his office,and without the possibil­
ity of knowing me at his second examination; and his sec­
onddescription agreed, in every particular, with his first.
D. SANGSTON.
Carlisle, Pa., Sept. 28, 1836.”
While in Carlisle, the Rev. George G. Cookman, a Meth­
odist Episcopal clergyman of high standing, brought in a
ion of his whom one of the authors (O. S. Fowler) bad ex­
amined in Baltimore the summer previous, and stated that,
the time alluded to, the lad hadbeen described as possess­
ing unusual arithmetical powers, of which fact be was not
then conscious. Upon trying the arithmetical talents ofhis
son, however, he found that phrenology had revealed to him
an important truth concerning his son, of which his own ob­
servation had failed toinform him.
While in Baltimore, bythe solicitationofone of his breth­
ren, Mr. C.’s own head was examined. He was described
as possessedof extravagant ideal., very large compar., event,
iodivid., lang., benev.,imitat, and hope, and large caus., com­
bat., conscien. vcn., adhes., self-e.,and philopro.; and, conse­
quent!y, as possessing descriptive powers, and a talent for
eloquence and popular speaking, ofa hicrhorder. His abi­
lity to distinguish himselfas a moral leader, bis large moral
organs, and very large benev. or desire to benefit his fellow-
men, were alldwelt upon with such emphasis, that those who
camewithhim,thoughttheexaminermusthavebeenprevious­
ly acquainted with their distinguished preacher; but the feet
was, hisphrenologicaldevelopmentscorresponded so exactly
with those talents by which he had soeminently distinguish­
ed himself in his publick capacity as a preacher, that all the
phrenologist had to do, was to read offhischaracter as from
a book, to the astonished listeners. It hardly need beadded,
that, at a meeting of the Bible Society, this gentleman was
the author of that famous and beautiful allegory, in which
yGoogle
®T iTACTS. 275
the different denominations of Christians, uniting hand and
hand in this common cause, are compared to a great army,
the Methodist Episcopal Church constituting the scourers
and the vanguard, the Presbyterian, the grand centre, the
heavy artillery, &c. His very large comparison appears
conspicuous in almost every sentence, and often bursts forth
in the conception of beautiful similes and illustrations. H is
imitat. is fully represented in his numerous and appropriate
gestures, thus imparting to his delivery an unusual, if not
superabundant, amount of action. H is very large ideal, and
large marvel, appear throughout his discourses in bold relief,
giving his descriptions a high degree of beauty, sublimity,
glow, and wonder; and his appeals to the passions display a
great amount of enthusiasm, and are almost irresistible.
H is small secret, gives a directness and plainness to his ex­
pressions and appeals, which some call bluntness. His com­
mand of words and incidents is certainly remarkable. His
firm., self-e., and combat, give him a commanding and dig­
nified appearance, and beget great energy of mind and char­
acter, whilst, at the same time, his benev. and ven. give
him affability and benignity. H is mirth, is large, and, with
his very large compar. and imitat., enables and disposes him
to say many very witty and ludicrous things; and he stated
to the examiner, that, against this “ easily-besetting sin,” he
was obliged to struggle more than against any other, and
that it sometimes broke forth even in the pulpit. On the
whole, he may be emphatically styled eloquent, and his or­
ganization pronounced to be a most happy one for a popular
preacher, an appellation peculiarly appropriate to him.
Another striking proof of the truth of phrenology, occurs
in the person of the Hon. Judge Lewis of Pa. In him the
perceptive faculties and compar. are very large, and, in ac­
cordance with this development, it is well attested of his
intellectual character, that he possesses an astonishing facili­
ty in seizing upon the prominent facts in any given case,
(individ. and event.,) and in rejecting every thing that does
not bear directly upon the point in question, (compar.) His
brain is active, and his whole phrenological organization is
very happily balanced; and the effects of these favourable
qualities, are conspicuous in his character. In giving his
decisions, his style is characterized by perspicuity and pre­
cision, and is always to the point.
Judge L. was examined by the writer (O. S. Fowler) at
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
PHRENOLOGY PROVEO AND ILLUSTRATED
Danville, Pa., in 1836, without being introduced, and before
the writer had heard that there was such a man living; and
yet, the description of his character and talents was pronoun«
ced to be strikingly correct throughout. In order, however*
to put phrenology to a still severer test, Judge L. requested
a blindfold examination of a gentleman whom he should se­
lect. Accordingly, he brought forward an intimate friend
of his (Mr. C. Hallji whom he had heard examined some
days previous: and, m the opinion of the Judge* and of all
others who heard them, the two descriptions were exactly
alike, and perfectly corresponded with the character of the
gentleman examined. y , . (
A still more striking proof of phrenology was presented
in the case of the Hon. Gen. Anthony, member of Congress
from Pa., who was prevailed upon to submit to an examina­
tion, by Mr. Packer. After describinghim as possessing an
uncommon share of energy and decision of character, as
manifested by his unusual development of firm., combat*
self-e., hope, &c., the first remark made by the phrenologist
concerning his intellectual powers, was, that the size of
calcu., as developed in his head, was enormous— so great,
indeed, that it could hardly be spanned with the thumb and
middle finger. All his other perceptive organs were also
extremely large; and the inference drawn, was, that he must
possess, not only an astonishing ability to reckon in his head*
but also a great fondness and talent for the higher branches
of mathematicks and astronomy. This examination occur­
red at W ashington in 1835; and nothing was heard from
the examination until in the summer of 1836, when Mr.
Packer stated to the narrator, that Gen. A. possessed the
most astonishing faculty for casting up accounts in his head,
of any man he had ever seen or heard of; that he could
solve almost any arithmetical problem in his head, and with­
out apparent effort; that he could add up at once a column
of three, four, or five figures, multiply large sums into each
other, and also divide and substract them by a single opera­
tion ; that he had not patience to witness the slow, plodding
calculations of ordinary minds, but would generally do them
himself, and at a glance. Mr. P. also stated, that in his
natural talents forarithmetick and the mathematicks, it was
generally conceded, that Gen. A. had no superiour, if
equal, in Pa.
yGoogle
BY FACTS. m
Mr. P. remarked, that he was particularly struck with the
strength and force of the expressions used in the description
of this gentleman’s mathematical talent, inasmuch as it ac­
corded so perfectly with the wonderful powers of the m an;
and he became at once a believer in phrenology. W e there­
fore appeal to Gen. A .’s head and mathematical character,
and ask our opponents to solve this prenological problem.
Mr. P. also gave phrenology another trial in the case of
the Hon. Mr. McKean, U. S. Senator from Pa. His exami­
nation was made without the least intimation’s being given
to the narrator, of the character or station of Mr. M cK .; and,
if the testimony of Mr. P., or of his friends who witnessed the
delineation of this gentleman’s character, (and who w ill inval­
idate it?) is entitled to credit, a more correct description of
his character and talents could not have been drawn up by
his most intimate friends. In confirmation of this, we ap­
peal to the living testimony of Mr. P., whose astonishment
at the result was very great.
But the astonishment of Mr. P. was not greater at the descrip­
tion of these gentlemen’s character, than was theirs at that giv­
en of his, especially when almost the first remark made of
him, was, that “ he always went in for the whole amount; was
exceedingly zealous in all that he undertook, and always did
whatever he attempted to accomplish, with his whole m igh t;
possessed a towering ambition for distinction, as well as a
talent for rising to em inence; was persevering in an extra­
ordinary degree; was a whole-hearted friend, but a bitter
enemy ; was unusually sarcastick, but excellent company ;
excessively fond of debate and opposition, and took hold of
every thing without m ittens; though he appeared very rash
and injudicious, and drove forward with prodigious fury, yet
he managed to steer clear of the breakers; had always too
many irons in the fire, &c.” Although yet young, these
traits of character have already brought this gentleman into
very general notice, and bid fair to augment his fame.
At the foot of the mountain, about ten miles north of Car­
lisle, Pa., O. S. Fowler examined the head of a farmer, who
was quite rustiek in his appearance, and observed that his
perceptive faculties generally, and particularly his individ.,
form, size, ealcu., local., event., and compar., were developed in
an extraordinary manner; and after travelling some few miles
farther, the writer was informed, that this man was the won­
der and astonishment of the neighbourhood on account of
Digitized by Google
his astonishing recollection of historical and statistical
(acts, &c.
At an iron foundry in the same neighbourhood, (owned
by Mr. Pleis of Phila.,) by a mere cast ofthe eye,the writer
was enabled to point out the best workmen, on account of
their superiour development of construct, and imitat. He
contrasted, for example, one man in whom these organs
were so large as to amount almost to a deformity, with ano­
ther by his side, in whom they were only full; in reply to
which, the superintendent remarked, that the firstnamed be­
came a firstrate moulder(which operation requiresthe high­
est degree of mechanical skill and ingenuity) with very little
practice, and seemingly without effort, whereas, the other
' * ' ~sbefore he becameeven passable.
ft78 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AM
D ILLUSTRATED
excel in that business. The gentleman farther remarked,
that the difference of natural tact and talent manifested by
different individuals who engaged in his business, was aston­
ishingly great: that, while some seemed naturally to pos­
sess, as it were, a slight ofhand for moulding, others could
not possibly learn the art by the most persevering applica­
tion, under the most judicious course of instruction—thus
showing most conclusively, that the faculty of construct is
innate.
In Bloomfield, Pa., phrenology gathered some laurels.
At a publick lecture, just after the arrival of the writer in
that place, a gentleman wasexamined, and described,among
ether things, as always upon the tiptoe ofexpectation, prone
to build castlesin the air, and for ever on a wild-goose chase
of some bubble or butterfly of fortune, which, however, was
always sure to elude his grasp; that he had toomany “irons
in the fire,” &c. (excessive hope and ideal., and small con­
cent. :) and so graphically correct was the description, that
the audience could not be made to believe but thatthe lectur­
er was intimately acquainted with the gentleman examined,
until the latter assured them, that he and the lecturer had
never seen each other until heentered the roomthatevening,
some time after the lecture had commenced. In regard to
the correctness of the description, a distinguished citizen of
the place (Lawyer Mackintyre) went so far as to declare,
that “ if Mr. Fowler had made the man, and dwelt in him
ever since he was created, and thought and felt for him, he
could not have morb perfectly portrayed his character.”
probability that he would ever
Digitized by Google
279
After examining, with complete success, many individ­
uals in the same place, in order to test phrenology the more
thoroughly, at the request of several gentlemen, the wri­
ter was blindfolded, and in this condition, examined the
heads of three respectable gentlemen (two of whom were
editors) the second time, he, of course, not knowing at the
time upon whom he was m anipulating; and, according to the
testimony of the three gentlemen re-examined, and of a large
number of spectators, one of whom was S. Kirkham, there was •
not only no discrepance between the first and second descrip­
tions given, but their agreement throughout, was so perfect
and striking, as to prove most satisfactorily, that the appli­
cation of the same scientifick principles had produced a sim­
ilar result in both cases.
In the same place, a young gentleman was described as
having a large development of the moral and intellectual
organs, and was therefore recommended to study divinity;
and it was afterwards ascertained by the writer, that such
was the predilection of the young man for this study, that
all his leisure hours for two years previous, had been most
sedulously devoted to it.
Another individual was described as having very strong
animal and selfish faculties, with a good endowment of in­
tellect, high veneration, and none too much conscience; and,
consequently, not unlikely to make great pretensions to
piety, but very much inclined to traffick, banter, and make
excellent bargains, not hesitating frequently to gratify his
acquis, by misrepresentation, dissimulation, and overreach­
ing. In confirmation of the description, it was afterwards
stated by a very respectable physician of the place, that this
individual was a church-member, but so notorious for taking
the advantage of his neighbours in trade, that he had been
dealt with for it, and received the censure of his professing
brethren.
A little boy was described as prone to stealing; and those
who brought him forward, stated, that he was presented
mainly on that account, as they wished to see whether phre­
nology could detect that trait in his character.
At a publick lecture in Milton, Pa., the writer examined
the head of Gen. Frick, editor of the “ Miltonian,” and de­
scribed him as an original, eccentrick, and very open-heart­
ed, plain-spoken, and independent character; stated that he
possessed a high degree of discrimination and mental acu­
fcY FACTS.
Digitized by Google
men, was strictly honest and benevo^nt, but, at the same
time, often pointed and sarcastick in his replies, made many
oddcomparisons,disregarded publickopinionand the fashions
of the day, controlled circumstances, swayed an influence
in whatever sphere he moved, and was undoubtedly a real
business man, a publick man, and a leader. These points
of character were phrenological deductions from his very
large firm, and compar., large combat., destruct., selfe.,
•adhes., hope, conscien., benev., mirth., individ., form, size*
order, calcu., and local.,and smallsecret., approbate marvel.,
and time; but here again the phrenologist was met with the
inquiry, whether he was not well acquainted with the gen­
tleman examined, although he had never seen him before,
nor heard of such a man.
While visiting a school in Milton, the teacher put several
questions tothe writer concerning his pupils. In his replies,
one lad, in particular, was described as very cunning and
mischievous; upon which the teacher described him to be
the greatest rogue in hisschool. The teacher also remarked
afterwards to one of his patrons, that all the remarks made
about his scholars by the phrenologist, were characters
tick.
During this tour through Pa., the head of a singular
young lady fell under the writer’s examination. It was of
full size, but developed mainly in the selfish and intellectual
regions. It was short, thick, low', and flattened at the top:
and in it wrere developed very large secret., approbat., ideal.,
hope, aliment., and destruct., large combat., amat., adhes., ac­
quis., mirth., lang., compar., and imitat., only full cans, and
cautious.,moderate firm., andsmall concent.,benev..conscien.,
ven.tand self-e. (the laslmentionedorgansin this combination,
produce lowmindedness and meanness: see bottom of p. p.
97, 98, and top of p. 99.) On discovering sounfavourable a
phrenological development in a young lady who had been
brought up in a very respectable family, and who still asso­
ciated with good company, the narrator hesitated to give a
description of her character, until, by the repeated solicita­
tions of some respectable persons who wished to hear what
phrenology could say for her, he screwed up his moral cour­
age to the sticking point, and proceeded to read offher real
cnaracter,accompaniedbyusefulhints concerningherconduct
—the resultofwhich was,of course, tooffendMiss,andcause
hertoturnupher noseagainstphrenology. Shewasdescribed
280 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED'
Digitized by L.ooQle
UY FACTS. 281
as coquettish to the last degree, (small conscien. and concent.,
and very large secret., approbat., and ideal., and large amat.;)
as very ardent, and also inconstant, in her attachments,
(small concent., conscien., and firm .: see middle of p 57;)
as excessively vain and fond of dress, show, and ornament,
(approbat. very large: see p. 110;) as fickle, (small
firm : p. 122;) as possessed of fine conversational powers,
(large lang., mirth., imitat., and compar., and very large
ideal.;) as excessively fond of sweetmeats, and liable to steal
them, (large aliment, and secret., and small conscien.: p.
99;) and as exceedingly cruel, selfish, and ungrateful, (small
conscien. and benev., and very large destruct.;) and yet, pos­
sessed of a fair share of talents. At the request of the writer,
he obtained from some of the family in which she had been
very genteelly brought up, the following account of her char­
acter, viz., that she had little regard for her w ord; had
formed several matrimonial engagements, and had as often
broken them ; was notorious for her coquetry and inconstan­
cy, having never loved any one long at a tim e; was as vain,
and dressy, and dashing as a peacock, and literally worship­
ped embellishment and ornament; was exceedingly cruel
and ungrateful, and manifested few compunctions of con­
science ; could be kept from pastry and sweetmeats only by
their being locked up; wns fascinating in conversation, and
displayed a fair share of intellect, but a malicious disposition,
and a terrible temper. No amount of kindness or admoni­
tion could soften her feelings, or produce a reformation in
her conduct. She took delight in hectoring and tormenting
even the infirm, sick, and helpless.
But in no place, perhaps, was a stronger impression made
in favour of phrenology, or more striking proofs of its truth
exhibited, than in the city of W a sh in g t o n , D. C. At the
close of the first publick lecture delivered in that city by O.
S. Fowler, in Nov., 1835, (which took place at the Unita­
rian Church,) Dr. Hunt came forward for examination. He
was a perfect stranger to the lecturer, and was described as
possessed of extraordinary independence, (firm, and self-e.,)
joined with great energy and force of character, (firm, and
self-e., combined with combat, and destruct.) H is very large
perceptive powers were also dwelt upon, and the fact that he
is often called upon at races to give the word “ go,” confirms
the correctness of this statement. His independence is illus­
trated in his refusing to act as a physician in the family ol
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
President Jackson, unless hecould have his own way, which
was in opposition tothat ofthe President’s.
Jones.—But a still more striking case was that of P.
Jones, who has been employed in the patent-office in Wash­
ington, and also as a professor of chymistry and natural phi­
losophy in one of the institutions in the District. He was
described as possessedofa high degree of intellect and moral
feeling, and as a natural scholar ofthe firstorder; ashaving
at command an astonishing amount of information upon al­
mostall subjects, and as possessingan intuitivetalent and fond­
nessfor pursuing thenatural sciences. Event, isseldom found
as large as in hishead; and hisenviabledistinction asa schol­
ar, fully confirms the indications of phrenology. Nearly
the whole of page 21L, afterthe tenth line, presents the com­
binations and characteristicks of Mr. J., with this exception,
that his event., instead ofbeing large, is very large.
The moral organs of Mr. J. are very large, and his moral
character and conduct not only unexceptionable, but seldom
equalled. The selfish propensities are below mediocrity,
which also corresponds with his character. His imitat is
very large, and his construct, large, which, combined with
his very large perceptive faculties, give him the uncommon
mechanical ingenuity that he possesses.
Sewall.—In confirmationofwhit isherestated,thewriter
will merely cite the testimony of Dr. Sewall, who, for
more than twelve years past, has distinguished himself by
lecturing against phrenology in the Medical College of
Washington. During the examination of both Dr. Hunt
and Professor Jones, Dr. S. was frequently heard to express
his assent to the correctness of the descriptions of character
given, a3 well as his surprise at it; and after the examina­
tions had closed, he several times remarked, that his phrenor
logical skepticism was giving way; that the descriptions of
character were strikingly correct, and, to a moral certainty,
the result ofphrenological science. j
These two publick examinations, together with several
others which followed, produced no little sensation through­
out the city; and as to their correctness, not a dissenting
voice was to be heard. But, on the part of Dr. Bewail and
some others,there was a resolution formed toput phrenology
to a still more rigorous test. The lecturer bad announced
that he would examine with his eyes covered; and, accord*
ingly, at the next lecture, several distinguished character^
282 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
yGoogle
BY FACTS. 283
among whom was Dr. S. himself, were examined while the
lecturer was blindfolded. In regard to the Doctor’s own
case, after the examination, he frankly admitted, that it was
completely successful; and that, although the description of
his character which was given, differed in several particulars
from the opinions entertained of him by his acquaintances,
yet, on these very points it was correct, and had thus correct­
ed publick opinion in regard to him.
A very intelligent lady, also, who had lived in the family
of Dr. S., and, of course, who was intimately acquainted with
his character, remarked, that, in the description of it, many
traits of which the publick could know nothing, were stated
with remarkable accuracy; and as to the publick opinion
concerning his examination, there was but one voice, viz.,
that, as a whole, it could not have been surpassed in point
of accuracy even by his most intimate acquaintances. The
obstinately skeptical could account for the striking coinci­
dence between the Doctor’s real character and the phrenolo­
gical description of it, only by pretending that the lecturer
must have known whom he was examining, notwithstanding
Dr. S. was one among some six or eight who were examin­
ed whilst the phrenologist was blindfolded.
Several members of Dr. Sewall’s family were examined at
his house, and according to his owm testimony at the time,
and likewise that of the lady just alluded to, except in one
particular, not only wras there no mistake made, but almost
every point stated by the narrator, was characteristick.
To test practical phrenology still farther, by request, the
lecturer was again blindfolded, and Dr. S. reproduced Pro­
fessor Jones; and so far from there being any discrepance
between the two examinations, both descriptions agreed per­
fectly throughout, nem. con.— even Dr. S. himself judging.
Afterwards at a meeting of the physicians of W. at the
house of Dr. Sewall, many of them were examined by the
writer, and many striking coincidences between their real
traits of character and their phrenological developments, were
pointed out. During these examinations, Dr. S. several times
remarked to the phrenologist, (and was said to have stated
the same to others,) that these and other proofs which he had
witnessed, were certainly strong in favour of the truth of the
science, and that, by the aid of phrenological principles alone,
the writer had frequently described character in his presence
with singular accuracy. So notorious, in fact, wras the
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
change effected in Dr. S.’s mind on the subject of phrenol­
ogy, that the Washington Mirror made the following allu­
sion to it:
“ Onihe occasion-of Mr. Fowler’s first lecture, Several
well-known heads were publickly examined, and phrenology
gained many adherents from the ranks of its adversaries:
among others, one whose name, were we at liberty to use it,
would be seized onby the friends ofthe science, as affording
a practical instance ofthe power of experimental phrenology.
Indeed, in the case alluded to, as well as in the fifty others
which have fallen under our notice this week, the portraiture
of character has been so strikingly correct, that there is no
alternative remaining, but to believe in the fundamental
principles of phrenology, or to discard a mass ofcoincidence
far more surprising than any metaphysical conclusion.”
The U. S. Telegraph likewise alluded to the same factin
the following language: “ A distinguished professional gen­
tleman ofthis city, who has been a professed disbeliever in,
and, we might add, opponent to, phrenology, after having
heard the lectures of Mr. Fowler, and seen many practical
examples ofthe truth ofthe science, candidly acknowledged
the almost total change of his opinions in regard to it—a
beautiful specimen of the power of truth, and of the love of
truth.”
The writer has been thus prolix and particular in stating
these facts, in order to exhibit, in bold relief, the inconsistenr
cy ofthe course which Dr. Sewall has since been pleased to
pursue in relation to phrenology; for, notwithstanding all of
his acknowledged convictions in favour of the truth of the
science—notwithstanding the enormous amount of demon-
strative evidence in its favour which*was fairly presented
to his mind—evidence, one would think, amply sufficient to
convince the most skeptical, and evidence, the force of which
he founditimpossibleatthetime to resist—yet, extraordinary
as it mayappear, in a shorttime we again find this self-same
Dr. S. a zealous leader in the ranks ofthe opposers to phre­
nology.
But how can we account for this strange and paradoxical
conduct in Dr. S. ? The writer (O. S. Fowler) happens to
be in possessionofthe very secret which, inthis case, reveals
the whole mystery:and nothingbut hisregard totruth,and his
eealforthecauseofscience,would inducehimtomakethisdts
284 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by Google
BY FACT«. '285
closure. W ere he to follow the inclinations of his private feel­
ings, he would forbear— he would spare, not only Dr. S., but
also all others who, from motives of private pique, or personal
popularity, ungenerously stand forth to combat, and, if they
only had the power, to crush a noble science which is suc­
cessfully struggling into existence against the mammoth
strength of publick prejudice. The secret then is, as the
Doctor himself averred to the writer, (and to which avowal
he will at all times be ready to be qualified,) that the Doctor’s
hostility to phrenology originated solely in his own personal
feelings towards a prominent member of the phrenologic­
al society,* by which member he said he had been ill-treat­
ed ; and, therefore, he had resolved to retaliate upon him
by ridiculing his science. Dr. S.’s approbat. is very large.
It will not, therefore, be singular, if he be found in the ranks
of the opposition to phrenology just as long as their side is
Considered popular. *Dr.Caldwell. See p.10 of this PhrenologyVindicated.
W o o d h o u se.— Among others examined in publick in W .f
was a Mr. Woodhouse, who stands unrivalled for his mechan­
ical talents. He was described as having uncommon com par.,
caus., and construct. The closing remark made upon his
head, after he had gone to his seat, was, that sufficient emphasis
had not been given to his extraordinary constructive powers.
At a subsequent lecture, the same gentleman was re-exam­
ined while the lecturer was blindfolded. H is construct, was
dwelt upon as the one predominant characteristick of his
mind, which, joined with his very large caus. and compar.,
was described as giving him an intuitive knowledge of me­
chanical principles and great contrivance. One fact illus­
trative of his possessing this talent in a pre-eminent degree,
is, that when the colossal statue, which weighs several tons,
was to be placed upon the W ashington monument in Balti­
more, after a great many of the first-rate mechanicks had ex­
hausted their skill, and still failed to raise it, he was sent for,
and, with the greatest ease, he immediately devised an origi­
nal method by which this enormous weight was speedily
elevated to its present fearful height.
A boy, three years of age, was examined, in whom amat.
was very large, and, according to the testimony of his pa­
rents, he manifested the corresponding passion in as striking
a degree as most adults.
E l l i o t t .— Among others examined at W ., was a Mr. E l­
liott, who resides with his father on Capitol Hill, and in
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
whose written character the narrator dwelt much upon hisre­
markable talent and passion fordrawing, designing, draught­
ing, using tools, &c. About a month after this description was
given, his plan and drawing for a new patent-office, &c., was
approved and adopted by Congress. His father, who isnoted
as an opponent to phrenology, and who wrote several articles
against it, one of which appeared in the National Intelligen­
cer in Dec., 1835, admitted that the description given of his
son’s character, was as strikingly correct, notonly in this, but
also in the other particulars, as any which he himself could
give ; and added, that, from a mere boy, he had displayed an
uncommon propensity fortinkering and drawing.
The father alluded to, possessed not only a very large de­
velopment of event., but with it, one of the best memories of
facts known. From a personal knowledge of La Fayette,
he remarked, that he also possessed a most astonishing re­
collection of facts, and even of minute details; and judging
from his busts and profiles, his individ. and event, must have
been developed in an extraordinary degree.
W i s e .—But a still more striking illustration of the truth
of phrenology, occurred in the head of Henry A. Wise,
whose publick character is too well known to need even a
passing remark. Before the writer had ever seen that dis­
tinguished gentleman, he came into his office and requested
an examination. The first remark made of him, was, that
he possessed a towering ambition, (hope, approbat., and
self-e.,) accompanied with all the intellectual and propelling
powers requisite to sustain himself in his aspirations after
greatness. His combat, and destruct. are large, if not very-
large, and his compar. projectsenormously, which collective­
ly give him that unrivalled talent for withering sarcasms and
cuttingcomparisons which always tell soseverely uponthose
at whom they are aimed. His temperament is of the most
favourable kind, his head, large, all his perceptive faculties,
developed in a very unusual degree, his ideal, and iang. are
large, and the whole correspond perfectly with his real char­
acter. Many a time have his speeches and conversation
recalled to the mind of the writer the impressions which his
examination made upon him, while wholly unacquainted with
his name and standing.
J a c k s o n .—But for proofs of its correctness, phrenology
has but to look tothe first headsinthe nation ; and it will inva­
riably be found, that the more conspicuous the character, the
286 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by Google
BY FACTS. 287
more striking will bethe proof. PresidentJackson, for exam­
ple, possesses an extraordinary development of firm., selfie.,
oenev., combat., and adhes., with large ven. and hope, and
smaller ideal. Benev. and adhes. are among his strongest
organs; and if there is any one fault in his publick character,
more prominent than others, the writer ventures the opinion,
that it is mainly the product of these two faculties, viz., his
too great readiness to assist his friends. The President’s
head is of the largest size. Its diameter just above the ears,
¡s seven inches and three-eighths: and its height very great,
so that it is, in reality, considerably larger than the given
diameter would indicate. On phrenological principles, a
brain of this size, with an active temperament, is absolutely
necessary to give that intellectual energy and force of char­
acter which have been so conspicuously displayed by the in­
dividual here referred to.
Van Buren.—Among other phrenological observations,
those made by the writer upon Martin Van Buren, are
worthy of notice ; but, on account of his political station, and
the diversity of opinions entertained of him by the different
political parties, in regard to some points of his character, the
writer forbears todraw inferences from the data here present­
ed, excepting on such points as he believes will be corrobo­
rated by all parties. His head is large, and those portions
which impart energy and force of character and feeling, are
developed in a high degree. Cautious, is his largest organ,
and his secret, is almost equally large. Acquis, and destruct.
are also large, while firm., self-e., approbat., combat., amat.,
and hope, are very large; but the combined action of secret,
and cautious, prevents their imprudent expression, and produ­
cesthat noncommittal manifestation of the faculties for which
this gentleman is so celebrated. His compar. and cans, are
large, and his benev., conscien., and perceptive faculties gen­
erally, only full. His caus. and cautious, give him that sa­
gacity for which he is so remarkable.
Mr. Brower, painter, No. 12, Roosevelt-st., N. Y., has a
cast taken from his head, which, among some others, was
submitted to L. N. Fowler for examination. Unconscious
of whose head it represented, he gave it an im partial exam­
ination, the result of which any one may know by calling
on Mr. B.
Adams.—The head ofex-president Adams presents a strik­
ing instance of the truth ofphrenology. Love of approbation
Digitized by Google
isoneof his rulingorgans. Hiscompar. is also very largej
and its discriminating and analytical influence is manifest in
almost every publick effort he makes. But his perceptive
faculties predominate over his reasoningj hence, he is more
capable ofcollectingfactsand statistical information general*
ly, than ofdeep and profound reasoning. His critical acu-
men is very great. His conscien. is large; and, consequent­
ly, whatever may bethoughtofhis measures, no phrenologist
will impeach his motives.
Henry Clay furnishesan illustrious exampleoftheagree­
ment between hisphrenologicaldevelopmentsand his known
traits of character—an agreement, in fact, which can be ac­
counted for on no other rational principle than that which
admits the truth of phrenology. The following isthe result
of a careful phrenological observation of his head. r
The first point of interest, is his uncommonly fine and fa­
vourable temperament, which is a compound ofthe nervous,
sanguine, and bilious, and which secures a most happy and
delicate blending ofstrength and activity, with high suscep­
tibility to stimuli; and this temperament is aided by the or­
ganization of his whole corporeal system* which is unri­
valled.
The second thing to be noticed, is the sharpness of his
organs, which greatly increasetheir activityand excitability.
Add to this, the size of his head, which is unusually great,
it being seven inches and three-eighths indiameter, aindvery
high in proportion to its breadth j and we have three favour­
able extremes acting in concert, which, under any circum­
stances, could hardly fail tobring him intonotice, but which,
under favourable circumstances, wouldofthemselves produce
a great genius. But when totheseextraordinary manifesta­
tions, we add the important one of a most favourable devel­
opmentofthe severalclasses oforgans, as well asofthe indi­
viduals in each class, presenting great mental power so ad­
mirably balanced that none of it runs to waste, we have—
Henry Clay—to the life.
His benev. is very large, and his adhes. and philopTo. are
developed in an extraordinary degree far a man. From this
combination flows that deep current ofsympathy and pathos
which so strongly characterize his speeches, and by which
he seizes upon the feelings, affections, and passions of his
hearers, and sweeps the chords of the human heart with
the master hand ofa Timotheus. From the samecombina­
288 PHRENOLOGY PR0VRD AR# ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
BY FACTS. 289
tion, also, proceeded that overwhelming burst of anguish
which so strongly marked the father on the late occasion of
the death of his daughter. His combat, is large, while his
destruct. is only full. Hence, his disposition to debate and
resist without showing great severity ofcharacter, and those
retorts courteous which display more manly courage than
harshness or cruelty. His self-e. and approbat. are both
large, but being nearly equal, and combined with very large
benev. and large ven,, they produce that affability mingled
with dignity,which displays itself in all his intercourse with
his fellow-men, and enters largely into his manner of speak­
ing, constituting him naturally, what he is in fact, a per­
fect gentleman. The same combination makes him ambi­
tious.
The organs which are located near the mesial line of his
head, are nearly all very large, so that its height is con­
siderably greater than its breadth, and its length from indi-
vid. to philopro. is very great. Hence, the moral and hu­
man faculties, which shine soconspicuously in his character,
are much more amply developed than the animal and selfish
propensities. His perceptive faculties are developed in an
extraordinary degree. These give him that ready command
of facts and statisticks—that wonderful ability to attend to
details and accomplish business, in which he excels most of
his contemporaries. It was by the aid of these faculties,
joined with his large concent., very large compar., and other
faculties, that he was enabled tobecome the author and cham­
pion defenderofthe “American System.” The same combina­
tion gives him those extraordinary powers of analysis, illus­
tration, critical acumen, and ability to discriminate, and, aid­
ed by imitat. and ideal., his nice sense of propriety and ele­
gance of expression, together with his great ability to seize
upon the strong points of the argument—in short, those un­
rivalled powers of forensick eloquence which so strongly
characterize his mental efforts. His ideal, and lang. being
both large, hut not very large, enable him to command a
style, at once ¿haste, graceful, and flowing, and alike free
from redundancy of ornament and verbosity ofexpression.
W e b s t e r .—But of all the great heads of the nation,
none iscapable of impartinga deeper interest tothe naturalist
or the philosopher, or a more forcible conviction tothe mind
of the phrenologist, than that of Daniel Webster. A larger
mass of brain perhaps never was, and never will be, found
13
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
290 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATE!*
in the upper and lateral portions ofany man’s forehead than
that contained in his. Both the height and the breadth of
his forehead are prodigiously great. And here, in all can­
dour andsober earnestness, let usaskthe disbeliever in phren­
ological science, if he can behold sucha noble,such a splen­
did forehead,and,in connexion with it, contemplate the giant
intellect of its possessor with indifference, or without being
internally convinced ofthe truth of,at least, the fundamental
principles of phrenology? Does the Almighty Architect
produce such magnificent specimens of workmanship for no
purpose? Can it be, that the front heads of a Webster, a
Franklin, a Sully, a Jeannin, a Bacon, a Socrates, mean noth­
ing more than those of the most ordinary individuals ?—
Could the observing of all ages be permitted to stand forth
and reply to these interrogatories, in the language of fact
and demonstration, one and all ofthem would thunder out a
negative: and be it borne in mind, that this negative is a
full admission of the fundamental principles of phrenologi­
cal science; or, in other words, the intelligent of all ages
and of all countries, as far as observation has enlightened
them upon the subject, have believed in, and taught, the doc­
trines of phrenology.
But, to return. It has been stated, that the one grand and
strikingphrenological featureofDanielWebster’shead—that
which towers above every thing else, is his enormous devel­
opment of the reasoning organs, or, more especially, his
cans. And here phrenology puts the question right home,
most direct and pointedly, to its opponent—For what is
Daniel Webster most distinguished? No one will deny,
that it is for his.gigantick reasoning faculties—for his deep,
logical, and original powers ofthought, and comprehension
of first-principles, by which he is enabled to grasp the most
formidable subject, and pour forth such a torrent of mighty
arguments as to confound and overwhelm his most daring
adversaries. Go, then, and measure the caus. and compar.
of Webster, and account for the astonishing coincidence be­
tween their enormous size and the giant strength of his rati-
ocinative powers, on anyother than phrenological principles
—if you can: if you cannot, you must admit that phrenolo­
gy is TRUE.
Many other developments ofhis head are striking, partic­
ularly his lang. and ideal.: and hence the grandeur and
Digitize L.ooQle
the beauty with which he often clothes his burning and
brilliant thoughts.
In Henry Clay, the reasoning organs are large, but the
perceptive and semi-perceptive are still larger: and, accord­
ingly, in all his great efforts, we see a greater display of
matter-of-fact, statistical, and business talent, than in Daniel
Webster: and all this is most strikingly coincident with the
difference of development in their respective heads; for, in
Webster, the reflective faculties are larger than the percep­
tive and semi-perceptive. Let phrenological skepticks ac­
count for this perfect agreement between the developments,
and the respective talents, of these two greatest orators and
statesmen living, or give up their opposition.
C a l h o u n .—In John C. Calhoun are united a very large
head, an active temperament, and sharp organs. His fore­
head (though partly covered and obscured by his hair) is
unusually high, and in breadth, surpasses mediocrity. But
the greatest peculiarity of his phrenology is, that all the in­
tellectual faculties are very large; and the most striking
point of difference between his reasoning organs and those
of Webster is, that, in the latter, caus. is greater than corn-
par. ; but, in the former, the reverse is true. Hence, it is a
lair inference to attribute to Calhoun the greater powers of
analysis and illustration; to Webster, the greater depth and
profundity.
P oindexter.—The Honerable George Poindexter
has, not only a large head, but, except marvel, and conscien.,
a general fulness of theorgans. The region in which corn-
par., caus., mirth., ideal., lang., individ., and event., are loca­
ted, in strict accordance with the manifestation of his mental
power, is developed in an extraordinary degree: and not
much less sd,the region appropriated to thefeelings and the
passions.
P reston.—In the head oftheHon. W.C.Preston of S. C.,
the organ of lang. is uncommonly developed, and so are in­
divid., form, size, event., local., and compar.; and these are
accompanied with large ideal, and concent. Hence, his
great command of words, facts, and events, his powers of
analysis, his brilliant and well-sustained comparisons, his
continuity and compactness of style and argument, and, in
short, his finished, flowing eloquence.
Whitney.—The headof ReubenM. Whitneyisalso very
BY FACTS. 291
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
large, and histemperamentquiteactive,which give him great
mental power. The development of the whole basilar re­
gion, is enormous. His firm, and self-e. are seldom equal­
ed, which, taken in connexion with his prodigiously strong
propelling powers, give him very great energy and force of
character. He can and will lead. His combat., destruct.,
aliment, and secret., acquis., amat., and hope, are all very
large; his benev. isonly full, eonscien. small, and all the per­
ceptive faculties, as wellas compar., are very large. Such a
development of the intellectual organs, is rare; yet, combi­
ned as it is with a still stronger development of the selfish
faculties, cannot failtoproducea very selfish,as wellas a very
talented, character.
Senator Benton’s head is very large, and in it the or­
gans that giveforce of character are immense.
Cass.—Gov. Cass’ head manifests a very large develop­
ment of both the intellectual and the moral faculties, and,
moreover, the intellectual faculties are uniformly developed,
giving him a well-balanced mind and a general talent.
Secretary W oodbury has also a large and well-balan­
ced head. The writtendescription of hischaracter and talents
which was given without the narrator’s having the least sus­
picion of his name or station, was considered by his acquaint­
ances as very accurate. In a daughter of his, the organ of
lang. was pointed out as developed in an extraordinary de­
gree, and the inference drawn, that shemust bean “everlast­
ing talker.” The father afterwards remarked, that the hit
was so striking as to have passed into a standing joke.
Senator Clayton of Del., has a very large organ of
lang. Asthe hon. gentleman wasoneday making someunfa­
vourable remarks upon the scienceof phrenology, the writer
requested of him permission to make oneobservation.
“ With all my heart,” was the courteous reply.
“From a mere boy, sir, you have been one in ten thou­
sand for your talent to commit to memory,” said the writer.
“Upon my word, you are perfectly correct, for I could
always repeat page after page merely by reading it two or
three times over. But howdid you discover it?
“By the bumps, sir,” was the reply.
This so excited the curiosity ofthe gentleman, that he de­
sired the examiner to proceed with the description of his
character, every subsequent point of which he acknowledg­
ed to be very striking and accurate.
292 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUS .tATED
yGoogle
BY FACTS. 293
Tyler.—Governour Tyler of Va., furnishes another
striking proof of the truth of phrenology. His head is
large; his temperament extremely active; his intellectual
organs throughout; are developed in an unusual degree,
while his benev. is a predominant traitofcharacter. Mirth,
is also very large. His friends considered the description
of his character given, as very correct.
W hite.—The Hon. Judge White’s headisvery high, and
well developedin the intellectual, aswell as in the moral, re­
gion. The writer believes that his conscien. is large.
Pettigru.—The Hon. Mr. Pettigru of S. C., wasas­
tonished beyond measure at the extraordinary accuracy of his
description, and wondered how it was possible that all the
nicer shades ofcharacter, and all the secret windings of his
heart, could be thus distinctly and critically portrayed—that
points of character which he had alwayk considered as di­
rectly at war with each other, could be pointed out and also
reconciled. For example; he was pronounced to be very
timid when obliged to remain passive, and very courageous
and fearless when his courage was roused. He remarked
that when his servant was driving his carriage across a bad
bridge, or over a rough place inthe road, he had the fear of
a woman; and yet, when on his way to Washington, but for
the interference of his friends, he should have fought several
duelson accountofnullification. This wasthe resultofvery
large cautious, with very large combat.
J o h n s o n .—The Hon. R. M.Johnson, Vice President, has
a large head, and large benev., adhes., and approbat., from
which flow his unbounded hospitality, his friendship and
affability, as well as hisdisposition toshow what he has done
by relating his wonderful adventures. His caus., compar.,
and lang., are large or very large; and hence his abilities
as displayed in his various reports. His marvel, is extreme­
ly low.
His self-esteem is only moderate, which, combined with
his large approbat., and very large domestick faculties, makes
him pre-eminently social and affable. His acknowledged
mental power is the result of a large brain.
K in g .—The Hon. Mr. King, ex-governour ofMe., who,
if the writer has been correctly informed, was a member of
the legislature of Mass, for forty years, and who,during that
period, prepared more publick documents,andfurnishedmore
Digitized by Google
statistical information, than any other man, frequently ex­
pressed his surprise, nay, his astonishment, at the revelations
of phrenology, while undergoing an examination by the wri­
ter: but when his unrivalled talents for collecting facts and
statisticks, and going into minute details, and for analyzing,
classifying, and arranging, (very large perceptive and semi-
perceptive faculties and compar.,) were emphatically dwelt
upon as the great and leading feature of his intellect, he
arose from his seat, and reiterated the oft-repeated interroga­
tory, “ Do you not know who I am, sir, and the whole his­
tory ofmy life?” And it was not until after the most posi­
tive assurances to the contrary were made by the examiner,
that he could be induced to believe that the phrenological
disclosures of his character and talents, were the result ofthe
application of scientifick principles, and not of previous
knowledge. He then confessed that, although he had pre­
viously disbelieved in phrenology, and scouted its pretensions
to reveal character in itsdetails and minutim, yet the nice dis­
criminations and shades of character which it had so accu­
rately pointed out in his case, had produced a conviction in
its favour, and excited his admiration and astonishment.
Jones.—The examination of Walter Jones, Esq., one of
the most distinguished pleaders in the Middle States, produ­
ced an effect similar to that last stated. The written descrip­
tion of his character was so graphick and accurate, that both
he and his friends believed it must have been compiled from
an intimate and critical knowledge of his life. Lang., corn-
par., mirth., and destruct., are the leading developments in
this gentleman’s head; and, in the written description allu­
ded to, his extraordinary powers of ridicule, his discrimina­
tion, point, and sarcasm, and his ability to make ludicrous
comparisons, and to apply odious and severe epithets to the
objects of his irony or displeasure, were dwelt upon with
uncommon emphasis.
Davis.—The Hon. Francis Granger prevailed upon Mr.
M. L. Davis, “the Spy inWashington,” tosubmit to an exam­
ination, during which, both parties, astonished at the remark­
able hits, and the wonderfully accurate delineations of char­
acter and talents given, several times arrested the progress
of the phrenologist to inquire whether he did not know the
character ofthe gentleman examined; and they could scarce­
ly be induced to believe his repeated and positive assevera­
tions ofentire ignorance ofthe man, except by his phrenolo­
294 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
fcY Fa c ts . 295
gical developments. The written description of Mr. D.’s
character, produced a similar effect upon the mindsofseveral
gentlemen who afterwards read it.—For the correctness of
the statement here made, the writer lakes pleasure in refer­
ring his readers to Dr. Gibson of Washington, a gentle­
man who was for some time one of the editors of the Tele­
graph.
Gibson.—Dr. Gibson’s own head furnishes, atleast, onede­
monstrative proof of the truth of phrenology. His head is
large, and his temperament, one of the most favourable.
Among his phrenological organs, caus., compar.,benev., con-
scien., mirth., combat., and destruct., are the most promi­
nently developed. As a reasoner, he has but few equals;
and his very large conscien., which takes the lead, not only
makes him a perfectly honest man, but, combined with his
other organs, enables him toreason most clearly and power­
fully upon all subjects which involve the abstract principles
of right and wrong. He likewise exhibits an almost Her­
culean power in hurling rebuke and censure at those who
violate moral principle, whilst his ridicule and sarcasm are
withering: and yet his very small marvel, and small ven.
make him indifferent to religiousforms and creeds.
But the children of Dr. G. furnish phrenological science
with proofs of its accuracy more numerousthan thosedrawn
from the character of the parent. Of his two sons, one pos­
sesses extraordinary imitat., construct., form., and all the fac­
ulties necessary for a first-rate portrait painter: and the
genius he displays in the pursuit of the fine arts, is almost
unequalled. But his imitat. overtops all his other organs:
and, in mimickry, and a talent for theatrical representations,
he is considered almost a prodigy. Previous to the examin­
ation of the lad, some of his friends who knew him well,
drew up a list of about twenty questions, with answers, em­
bracing nearlyall of his peculiarities ofcharacterand talents,
which questions they propounded to the examiner, and, in
every instance except two, his answers agreed with theirs;
and, in one ofthese discrepant points, they afterwards admit­
ted that the phrenologist was correct, whilst, in regard tothe
Other, there was some doubt
The developments, as well as the character, of the other
son, though widely different, are scarcely lessextraordinary.
His very large reflective faculties, taken in connexion with
his very active and nervous temperament, perfectly harmon-
Digitized by GooQle
296 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
izewith his uncommon ability tocomprehend firstprinciples^
to reason, and criticise.
The littledaughter of Dr. G. possesses a most astonishing
development of ordert so great, indeed, as toexhibit almost a
deformity. In accordance with the development, her father
stated tothe writer,that'before she was one year old, her love
ofarrangement and neatness, and her discomfiture at disar­
rangement, were so conspicuously and unequivocally mani­
fested as toastonish all who witnessed them. The develop­
ment of order, and, with it, the corresponding faculty, are
almost equally prominent in the grandmother of the child,
but, extraordinary as itmay seem,notinthe mother%
it having
passed by one generation.
Greene.—Gen. Duff Greene furnishes another illustra­
tion ofthe truth of phrenology. Hope, benev., adhes., and
compar., are his leading organs: the first would impart to
him that enterprising and bold speculating spirit which has
characterized his whole life; the next two are the cause of
his strong attachments and liberality, not tosay, prodigality,
which have manifested themselves m his giving away thou­
sands to his friends; and the last, aided by combat, and de-
struct., furnishes him with those severe and biting compari­
sons with which his style abounds. His mirth., caus., indi-
vid., and event., are also very large, his self-e. large, and
secret, small. The examination of his head was made by
the writer without any previous knowledge of the man.
In Washington the writer examined the headofa Mr. R.,
in which he found no organ of conscien. He accordingly
said to him, “You have no conscientious scruples or com­
punctions to which he replied, “that is a feet: my con­
science never troubles m e (s e e conscien. small ana very
small, p. 133.) Anotherindividual, examined in Phila., and
in whose head there was little or no development of consci­
en., remarked in writing, that “ he had oftendonethings for
which he felt sorry, because they had injured the feelingsof
others, (benev.,) or because he consideredthem beneath him,
(self-e.,)or because his reason told him better; yet, his con­
science never condemned him forsuch acts.” Another gen­
tleman in whom conscien. was described as very small, re­
plied, that “though he had done many wicked deeds, yet he
always went to sleep with a quiet conscience, and did not
know what the feeling of guilt was.” Another (in New
York) in whomconscien.was described as deficient,remark­
Digitized by Google
BY FACTS. 297
ed, that 4
4he had never done wrong in his life —the very
phenomena attributed to conscien. small and very small, on
p. 133. The authors have witnessed thousands of similar
cases.
The followingcharacteristical sceneoccurred at the office
of O. S. Fowler in Washington. A man was examined
(whose name we suppress) and described ashavingvery low
conscien., marvel., and ven., but exceedingly strong passions,
especially that of combat.; as highly talented, but nearly
destitute ofail moral feeling except that of benev.; as sleep-
tical, haughty, and self-conceited, (seJf*e. very large without
the moral faculties,) and prone to infidelity, gambling, &c.
When the examination wasclosed,he arose, and, with a most
important air, replied, “Sir, your phrenology must now
come down. You have described me as an infidel, a gam­
bler, and every thing that is base; but, sir, I wish you to
know, that I am a preacher of the Gospel ofJesus Christ /”
4
4Be that as it may,” wasthe reply, “ I have gone according
to the ‘bumps;’ and if phrenology cannot support itself in
that way, let it fall.”
He took his seat to hear the examination of others; and
presently there entered the office a professed gambler, who
recognised in our boasted clergyman, an old crony and for­
mer associate black-leg. They soon began to chat about
4
4oldtimes,” andrecount, with much enthusiasm, their former
exploits at cock-fighting, horse-racing, gambling, dissipation,
debauchery, and the like. Our clerical hero at length ask­
ed the phrenologist, “ what for a lawyer he would make ?”
4
4Excellent, ifyouonly had a little moreconscience,” was the
reply. “ I have for some time been studying law,” said he,
4
4and think I shall prefer pleading to preaching.” He was
afterwards admitted to the bar.
On relating the foregoing circumstance to a lady of the
Methodist persuasion, she said that “this man wasapreacher
in their connexion, but very unpopular, because he never
seemed tofeel what he said, (intellect withoutthe moral sen­
timents,) and because he was an arrogant, overbearing sort
of a man, who wanteda great deal of attention,” &c. By an­
other citizen of Washington, he was recognised as a former
resident there, who was distinguished as a wild, rakish, dis­
sipated, gambling youth.
A gentleman was examined by the writer at his office in
Washington,and described as possessing two classes of fac-
13*
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
ulties in an extraordinary degree, viz., those which create a
talent and a fondness for the study ofdivinity, and also those
which give apassion andan ability successfully to prosecute
the natural sciences, particularly geology, All his moral
organs were large or very large, and his perceptive facul­
ties, especially form and local., were very large. Surprised
and astonished at the disclosure and description given, he
arose from his seat,and asked if the writer knew him. When
fully assured that he did not, he admitted, that, since phrenol­
ogy had not only distinctly pointed out the great outlines
and leading features of his character and talents, but had,
likewise, delineated the nicer shades, and even minute fea­
tures, of his character, and that, too,with an accuracy*which
his most intimate acquaintances could not havedone, the sci­
ence must be true.—The gentleman was a clergym an, and,
as the writer afterwards learned, was then employed by go­
vernment as a geologist, in which capacity he <had made
several tours ana surveys, particularly in the West.
BroWN.-Butnoevidenceofthetruthofphrenology,ismore
conclusive than that furnished by thephrenological develop­
ments, taken in connexion with the character, of Mr. Wm.
H. Brown, known in many parts ofthe union asa fuH-length
‘
profile cutter. This gentleman entered the office of the wri­
ter in Washington, and inquired for a room to let, and when
asked for what purpose, replied, “as you are a phrenologist,
sir, perhaps you can tell.” He was found to possess the
largest perceptive faculties, considered as a whole, that the
writer had ever seen. His form, size, and local., are abso­
lutely astonishing; and, accordingly, he never forgot the
looks of a face or ofa place. As an instance,' when it was
remarked that he always retained in his mind a distinct im­
pression of the appearance of any place, and the location of
any object, he had ever seen, he immediately gave a minute
description ofthe houses, corners, pumps, &c. in Market and
Pearl streets, in the city of Albany, although he had passed
up Market street to Pearl only once, and back to the wharf
by another street.
By afterwards occupying the same office with Mr. B., the
writer had an opportunity frequently toobserve themanifest­
ation of his extraordinary powers. His head is very large;
and in it, besides the organs already mentioned, are devel­
oped very large construct., imitat., and compar. This or­
ganization would give him unrivalled dexterity and skill in
298 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by L.ooQle
BY FACTS. 299
the useof tools, in drawing, &c. At the funeral ofasenator,
he saw Martin Van Buren; and several days after, from
memoryalone, he cut a full-length miniature likeness of him
from black paper, which, when pasted upon a white card,
represented the original to the very life; so much so, indeed,
that every person who entered the office, and who had pre­
viously seen Mr. V. B., recognised it immediately: and hun­
dreds of copies of it were soon sold. When gentlemen call­
ed upon Mr. B. for the profiles of their friends, or servants
for those of their masters, they were invariably directed to
select them from a large pack, and they were never at a loss
in deciding upon the right pictures. With such facility and
despatch was the artist enabled to produce these likenesses,
that he could cut and finishfromseventy-five to one hundred
in a day.
While in Boston, Mr. B. was taken to the Exchange,
where six individuals were pointed outto him in succession.
Several hours afterwards, he was requested to cut their pro­
files promiscuously, tkey not being present; and to the as­
tonishment and admiration ofall present, so successfully and
accurately did he perform the task, that all who knew the
originals, were enabled immediately to recognise the like­
ness of each as it was produced. During an absenceoftwo
years from B., a gentleman whose profile he had cut, had
deceased,and no copyof his picture could befound. Anxious
to retain, if possible, so striking a token of remembrance of
him, the friends of the deceased applied to Mr. B. to cut a
new one from memory: and so perfectly did he reproduce
the likeness, that they were no less gratified than astonished
at the masterly power ofthe artist.
Astonishing, however, as these talents in Mr. B. may ap­
pear, they were, nevertheless, all distinctly pointed out by
the writer at his first interview with him: to which fact Mr.
B. himself, who was then a disbelieverin phrenology, as well
as several others who were present, will at any time testify.
He then described Mr. B., for example, as able, for almost
any length of time, to retain in his mind a distinct and per­
fectly accurate impression ofthe looks of persons, machines,
&c. which he had once seen, and, at pleasure, to transfer
their appearance to paper; and declared that, in drawing,
profile cutting, &'c., he had no equal. Dr. Spurztyeim saw
Mr. B. in Boston, and, at one ofhis publick lectures, gave a
specifick and correct description ofthese samepowers ofhis
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
mind. Mr. B. states, that all phrenologists who understand
the science, concur in attributing to him the same qualities
and talents.
The editor of the U. S. Telegraphy made the following
remarks upon the talents and genius ofthis prodigy in art:
“ Such is the correctness of his ideas of form and size, and
such the accuracy of his touch, (weight,) that by casting his
eyes upon an individual for a few minutes, he can transfer to
paper, and cut out with scissors, the profile, and the whole
contour of the person, with such exactness, that no acquaint­
ance ofthe person can fail to distinguish it. The accuracy
of his likenesses, and thefacility with which they are produ­
ced, are truly astonishing. We have seen profiles thus ta­
ken of General Jackson, Judge Marshall, and others, which
are so striking, that any one who has ever seen them, can
be at no loss to name the person designed to be repre­
sented.”
“ But the connexion of Mr. Brown’s extraordinary talent
with the science of phrenology, is its most interesting feature.
The phrenological developments of Mr. B. are such as indi*
cate the very faculties which he possesses, and that in an ex­
traordinary degree. We doubt whether there is a head in
the United States, or even in the civilized world, in which
there is such a development of the so-called phrenological
organs of form, size, imitation, and constructiveness.” “ To
such an extent does Mr. Brown possess this most extraordi­
nary power of recollecting forms and faces, and of delinea­
ting them, that, by looking two or three minutes at an indi­
vidual, or at several in succession, he can, hours afterwards,
transfer them to paper with his scissors, nearly as accurately
as though the persons were before him.”—Scores of equally
flattering newspaper noticesmight easily be added.
Booth.—The coincidence between the phrenological de­
velopments and the character and talents of J. B. Booth, the
celebrated tragick actor, is singularly striking. His head
is large, and his temperament very active. His combat.,
destruct, self-e., compar., caus., and ideal., are all very large,
and his imitat. larger than is often found. His lang. is large,
which enables him to commit to memory, and command
*words, with great ease. It is by the combined influence of
these faculties that he is enabled so admirably to personate
the ambition, the haughtiness, the insolence, and the brutali­
ty and malice of Richard the Third; but his secret is mo-
800 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
j
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
BY FACTS. 301
derate; and this is the cause ofhisfailure (according to the
testimony of some of the criticks) to do full justice to the
craft, cunning, and deep duplicity of his favourite hero.
The combination given likewise explains to us the reason
why Mr. B. is greater in raising the tempest ofpassion and
violence than in directing the storm. His very large ideal.,
joined with very large reflective faculties, gives him that
sublimity of conception and grandeur of personation that
mark hisacting; while his very large mirth., combined with
his combat.xand destruct., enable him to represent the se­
vere and sarcastick. All his domestick faculties are strong­
ly marked.
He produced his eldest son, and, though not only a skep-
tick in phrenology, but greatly prejudiced against it, acknowl­
edged the entire change wrought in his opinions by the ex­
amination, and added, that he doubted whether his own de­
scription of his son could have been more characteristick and
accurate.
Mr. Weymes, the ownerofthe American theatreatW.,and
ofthe Walnut-st. theatre in Phila., who was examined while
the writer was wholly unacquainted with his occupation and
character, was described as possessing an extraordinary ta­
lent-for committing to memory; (very large lang.;) in con­
firmation of which, he stated that he had learned, verbatim,
fifteen hundred lines ofblank verse (if the writer’s memory
serves hifn) in six hours.
To detail all the marked and striking observations in proof
and illustration of phrenology, made by the writer even
wrhile in Washington, would doubtless be more tediousthan
interesting. He will therefore close this list of cases with
the single remark, that he found the heads of individuals
generally in that city, and especially of all who are distin­
guished in the national councils, to be considerably above
the common standard in size and in striking developments.
Among the many scores of striking examples which he
found in Alexandria, D. C., the writer will mention but onet
which he selects merelyon account of itsoccurring ata pub-
lick examination, and in reference to a notorious character.
The name is forgotten, but there are hundreds in the city of
A. who can attest to the fact here stated. The first thing
mentioned, was a trait produced by very large combat., de­
struct., firm., and self-e., unrestrained by conscien. or secret.,
namely, his violent and ungovernable temper. In this par-
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
ticular, the man was represented as dangerous; especially
as an enemy, yet, as disposed totake vengeanceaboveboard.
In accordance with this, it was stated, that, in open day, he
had shottwo individuals; and that when his anger was rais­
ed, he was emphatically a chafed tiger. Not possessing
any acquis., and having very large amat., ideal., self-e., ali­
ment., and other organs indicative of prodigality, he was
described as a spendthrift; and accordingly he had squan­
dered two large fortunes mainly in selfish gratifications.
As in hundreds of other cases, the charges of “ collusion,”
and “ a previous knowledge of his character,” were resort­
ed to in order to explain away the astonishing coincidence
between his real character and this publick phrenological
description of it.
Orr.—At a public examination in Georgetown, D. C.,
and when the writer was blindfolded, a Mr. Orr, who is r2-
porter in the U. S. Senate, and, withal, known tothe literary
world as a gentleman of great learning and extraordinary
intellectual powers, was brought forward as a fit subject to
test phrenology. He was described as possessing extraordi­
nary perceptive and reflective powers, unitedwith very large
concent., large combat., and unusual energy and decision of
character. But his wonderful calculatingand astronomical
powers were dwelt upon as forming one of the strongest
traits of his character. In accordance with this description,
he is considered one of the best astronomers and mathe­
maticians ofthe age, and, moreover, as possessinga clear and
powerful intellect, and a mind well stored with a rich fund
ofthought and learning, and all backed up with strong and
energetick feelings. The manner inwhich he literally uses
up his opponents, is ample demonstration of the presence of
very powerful combat., compar., caus., concent., &c. He
was also described as a very sarcastick and severe writer;
which was said to be characteristick ofhim.
The description of character agreed perfectly with one
previously given of the same gentleman by the writer, for
the correctness of which he refers to the good people of
Georgetown who heard it,and, also, for several other equally
striking proofs of the truth of practical phrenology. At the
close of a course of lectures delivered in that place, during
which a large number ofwell-known characters was publick-
ly examined, a resolution was introduced by Mr. Orr, and
carried, nem. con.t the purport of which was, that theeviden-
302 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
BY FACTS. 303
ces ofthe truth ofpractical phrenology presented in the lec­
tures, were highly satisfactory and conclusive.
G r e e n .—During the summer of 1835, in addition'to the
foregoing, many striking facts occurred, illustrative of the
J
iroofof phrenology, whilst the writer, O. S. Fowler, was
ocated in Baltimore. One of the most singular, was the
examination, at his office, of Dr. John 0. Green, of Union,
Loudon Co., Va., a gentleman of very unique and very strong
traits of character, who has, of late, become very celebrated
in his profession, particularly on account of his most extra-
ordinary and unequalled skill in curing chronick liver com­
p la in ts* The Doctor’s head is large, and very uneven, (p.
54,) indicative of uncommon mental power, and great singu­
la rity of character; his temperament is active. His com­
bat., destruct., selfe., conscien., firm., cautious., and compar.,
are large, his benev., caus., and hope, very large, his ven.
and perceptive faculties only full, and marvel., secret., and
acquis., very small. Accordingly, he was described as a
bold, original thinker, who was capable ofmaking new and
important discoveries; as highminded, independent, and hon­
ourable to the fullest extent, but, at the same time, incredu­
lous, and imprudent and indiscreet in what he says; as pos­
sessed of kind feelings and liberality in excess, and utterly
incapable of taking care ofproperty; and, in addition tothis,
many minute points and shades of character were stated;
and so graphick and strikingly correct was the description,
that the examiner was interrupted by the Doctor, who, aston­
ished beyond measure at the portraiture of character drawn,
demanded whether the phrenologist did not know him. Be­
ing assured to the contrary, with increased earnestness, he
reiterated the inquiry, “ Do you not know me, sir ?” And
after being reassured that he did not, he asked if the exam­
iner would be qualified to that effect. Being mostsolemnly
assured that he would, and the statement of the phrenologist
• It was asserted by the Doctor, and attested by several of his Va. acquaintan­
ces of unquestionable veracity, that, since he had made the discovery ofa suitab’e
remedy, he had cured all the patients thus afflicted who had followed his advice
and prescription ; and that the number then (in 1836) amounted to several hun­
d red s; and, moreover, that many of them were cases of the most desperate and
hopeless kind. One of the patients who, after having been afflicted with the liver
complaintfo r eight or ten years, has experienced a perfect cure by following out
Ihe prescription ofDr. G., is S. Kirkham, co-author in the present work, who takes
great pleasure in thus making known the meritsofthis extraordinary man, and in
recommending ad, whoare afflictedwith this terrible disease, if possible, to avail
themselvesof hiswonderful skill
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
on this point, being corroborated by the Doctor’s Va. friends
who had prevailed on him tosubmit to the examination, and
who were little less astonished than himself at the wonder­
ful accuracy ofthe description given, the Doctor yielded the
point, and at last acknowledged that the disclosure of his
character and talents must have been made by the applica­
tion of the principles ofa science which he had hitherto rid­
iculed as foolish and absurd. In confirmation of this state­
ment, the followingtestimonial is presented:
“ I hereby certify that Mr. O. S. Fowler, a phrenologist,
has this day, solely by the application of phrenological prin­
ciples, described my character and mental operations more
correctly than could have been done by my most intimate
friends. I might even add, that he has told me all,and that
my own astonishment and that of my friends at the minute­
ness and the accuracy of his description, are very great.
Baltimore, June 3, 1835. JOHN C. GREEN.’’
The writer saw a journeyman printer in theofficeof John ,
W. Woods, in Baltimore, who was partially deranged. His
ideal, was very large; and he was almost constantly either
repeating passages from orations, &c., accompanied with
much gesticulation, or delivering extempore speeches. Still,
in the execution of his work, he showed no signs of mental
aberration. Farther particulars may be learned of Mr. W.
A lad about three years old, named Franklin Gibson,
whose parents reside about three miles from the city, was
examined and found to possess a most astonishing devel­
opment of tune, and also of imitat. and time. When
this development was pointed out, his brother stated, that
“ he could turn- a tune before he could talk, or was a
year old; learned to play upon the piano-forto without any
instruction; a fortnight after hearing a tune sung but once,
could sing it from memory; could playthe air ofa tune upon
the piano, and, at the same time, compose and sing a bass
without making a discord; and had not only never been
known to make a discord himself, but evinced extreme
sjnsitiveness when he heard others make one.” Query 1. ‘
Is this extraordinary manifestation, the result of intuitive
talent, or of education ? 2. Is it caused by an extraor­
dinary activity and power of a particular faculty of the
mind, or is this phenomenon, which vastly excels all hia
other mental manifestations, and also that of one child in a
304 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
BY FACTS. 305
million, the product of that same mental power by which is
manifested all his other mental operations? Let anti-phre­
nologists, and all who deny the plurality of the mental facul­
ties, answer.
The followingisthetestimonyoftheRev.Benjamin Kurtz,
editor of the Lutheran Observer, in reference to the exami­
nation of his two sons, as given editorially in his own paper.
“ P hrenology T ested.—We this morning witnessed a
practical exhibition of the principles of phrenology, which
was exceedingly interesting, and, in our view, furnished
very strong evidence in favour of its claims to publick con­
fidence. Mr. Fowler is at present engaged in delivering a
course of lectures on this subject atthe corner of Baltimore
and Gay streets. His last lecture was attended among oth­
ers by the editor of this paper, who, it may not be amiss to
observe, has always been decidedly opposed to phrenology.
After the lecture, we were introduced to Mr. Fowler, and a
controversy immediately ensued, at the close of which we
took the liberty to remark, that we had two sons, one 15and
the other 13 years of age ;—that if Mr. F. thought proper to
examine their heads, and could give a correct description of
their intellectual and moral character, we would yield to all
moderate pretensions of phrenologists; but nothing short oî
facts, plain, positive facts, could convince us. Mr. F. as­
sented to this proposal, and was perfectly willing, so far as
he was concerned, that the science should stand or fall by
this test. Accordingly, this morning, accompanied by a
few respectable and literary gentlemen of this city, we con­
ducted our sons to Mr. F’s room ; having previously pre­
pared a written description of the mental qualities, disposi­
tions, &c., of the lads, with a view to compare it with what
Mr. F. should remark concerning them. Mr. F. had never
before seentheboys,but immediately commenced examining
theirheadsanddescribingtheircharacteristicktraitsminutely,
fully, and unequivocally. When his delineation wasfinished,
it was compared with that previously written for the occa­
sion, and, strange as it may appear, there was amost striking
and astonishing coincidence, with but one single item of dis­
crepance. Although we had heretofore not only been a
skeptick, but had oftenridiculed the pretensions of phrenol­
ogy, we were staggered and astounded ; our surprise was
beyond measure, and we hesitate not to declare, that we are
now convinced that there is indeed a most momentous real-
Digitized by L . o o Q [ e
306 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
#
ity in the matter; and, contrary to our inclination, and in
opposition to our deep-rooted and cherished prepossessions,
we are constrained to admit that phrenology is indeed a sci­
ence, based upon sound and irrefragable principles, and well
worthy the attention of all, atad especially of teachers, min­
isters, and others concerned in educating and meliorating
the condition of men. This, we believe, isalso the opinion
of all the gentlemen who attended to witness the interesting
scene. After the lads had been pronounced upon, we our­
selves and our friend, Mr.------, sat down and were examin­
ed; and it is conceded on all hands, that Mr. F. was not less
successful in our cases than in relation to the boys. The
whole company departed highly gratified, and immensely
astonished at the disclosures made by phrenology. Nothing
but facts, stubborn and irrefutable facts, could have produced
the conviction and amazement which evidently possessed the
minds of those present.
“Mr. F. manifestly understands his favourite science, and
is, withal, an agreeable and interesting lecturer. We now
verily believe, that great injustice has been done to this de­
partment of useful study, and to those who, in spite of the
taunts and jests of opponents, are zealously pursuing it
Phrenology isdestined to riseand becomeextensively useful;
and as truth is mighty, and will ultimately prevail, so this
branch of learning must eventually triumph over every ob­
stacle, and maintain a high rank in the circle of science.
“ We write this unsolicited by Mr. F., or any body else;
and regard all thatwe have statedas a very feebletestimony
to the claims of phrenology, as well as to the merits of Mr.
Fowler, the lecturer.”
The following is a description of a publick test of the
truth of practical phrenology, which was written for the
Baltimore Chronicle, and can be attested to by a very large
audience of the citizens of Baltimore.
“ For the Baltimore Chronicle.
“Mr. B a r n e s .—The science of phrenology, as promul­
gated in our city by Mr. Fowler, has met with not a little
opposition and ridicule. To satisfy the incredulous,therefore,
of its truth, as well as more firmly to establish the faith of
new converts, Mr. F.-proposed publickly to meet his oppo­
nents, and to put the science to the most rigid and scrutin-
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
BY FACTS. 307
izing test; and, with that intent, appointed a meeting in the
Lecture-Room of the Baltimore Lyceum.
“ His first test was, toexamine before the audience, (which
was very large,)the phrenological developments oftwotwin
brothers, and to give their characters. The twins ate chil­
dren aged 5 or 6, whose education and training have been
alike, but whose dispositions and talents widely differ—the
sons of Dr. Beare, a highly respectable professional gentle­
man of out city. It being known by the testimony oftheir
respectable parent, that Mr. F. had never seen either of the
boys, nor heard one word about their respective characters,
only that they differed, their presentation beforethe audience
producednot a little anxiety and excitement, enough, at least,
to evince the intense interest takenin the examination by the
respective partisans who had previously declared for, or
against, phrenology. With a boldness and an intrepidity
which nothing but the highest confidence in his abilities,di­
rectedbytrue principles, couldinspire, Mr. F. proceeded with
the examination, describing,ashe went along, instrong, plain,
and unequivocal terms,not only their most prominent points
of character, such as their respective dispositions, including
their passions, tempers, propensities, and the like, and, also,
their respective talents and abilities, but he went even into
detail, and minutely described many of the nice shades of
difference in their habitudes and modes of thinking.
“As soon as Mr. F. closed his examination, the father of
the children read to the audience a minute descriütion of the
character of each of the boys, as he had previously written
it out; and by comparing his description with that given by
Mr. F., it appeared thatthe two differed, onall the numerous
points of character described, only in one slight particular,
viz. Mr. F. had attributed to one, more generosity than the
parent supposed him topossess.* The victory of Mr. F. was
complete, as was strongly evinced by the long and loud ap­
plauses of the audience—to the no small confusion and dis­
comfiture of the obstinately skeptical, and to the high grati­
fication of the non-committal or fence-men, many of whom
jumped down on the phrenological side.
“ But this victory was but a prelude to those more tri­
* The mother, on learning my decision, remarked that I was right; and said
that the lad had more benevolence than the father gave him credit for. Ihad this
from the father himself. O. S. FOWLER.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
umphant onesthatwere tofollow. Mr. F. proceeded to exam­
ine the heads of many who presented themselves for the
purpose, and to describe and hit off their characters with
astonishing accuracy. It was soon proposed, however, that
he should examine some present who had been previously
examinedby him, and who had Mr. charts of their char­
acter in their pockets, in order to compare the former des­
criptions of character with those that should then be given.
“Mr. F. declined notthis mostscrutinizingtest,and proceed­
ed with the examination of two gentlemen, numbering their
several organs in a scale from 1 to 20; and as each number
was pronounced, the corresponding one on the chart was
also pronounced by a gentleman appointed for the purpose;
and the result was, that inthus rapidly naming off the rela­
tive size of some50 or 60organs, more than one-half agreed
exactly with thosepreviously writtendown on thetwo charts;
and among the whole, only one number differed materially.*
“ It was then proposed that Mr. F. should cover his eyes,
and then examine; and, although it deprived him of the im­
portant assistance (towhich, too, he had always been accus­
tomed) of sight, in connexion with touch, Mr. F. faltered
not, butboldly proceeded to gratifythe audience in any man­
ner, whether reasonable or unreasonable, that they might
choose; and, to the utter astonishment of all, a number of
characters thus rapidly hit off, leaped out from the mint so
strongly and elegantly stamped, that all their acquaintances
would have known them at the first glance, even had they,
like the phrenologist, been blindfolded. It seemed more
like magick than any thing else.
“Towards the close ofthe examination,several very divert­
ing cases occurred. One gentleman was accused by Mr. F.
of possessing great energy of character and moral courage,
which qualities called into requisition, in no small degree,
his combativeness. The gentleman arose, and declared to
the audience, that Mr. F. had sketched his character very
accurately, except in this particular; but, as for combative­
ness,he had it not: and to prove that he was right, he went
on with so energetick and combative a speech, as soon to con­
vince all present, that he, and pot Mr. F., had mistaken his
308 FHXEKOLOOY PtOTEO AHB ILLUSTRATE!»
maJk r 8t at Mr. Fowler’s office, the writer of this notice saw Mr. F.
aoUv with for a gentleman, on which 34 of the 35 numbers agreed ex*
y who uio first chart, and the other numberdiffered butslightly.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
own character. This ludicrous and happy circumstance,
elicited tremendous applause for the phrenologist.
Another gentleman examined, seemed to insinuate to the
audience, that he possessed not the mechanical ingenuity at­
tributed to him by Mr. F. By after confessions, however, it
appeared, that the tinkering propensity of the gentleman,
(though not a mechanick by profession,) has caused him to
amass a great variety of tools, and that he has been guilty of
indulging hismechanicalingenuitywith considerablesuccess,
in drawing—which comes under Mr. F.’sdescription of con-
stmctiveness.
“But the most satisfactory case of all, was yet to come.
Mr. F. had frequently desired some one to come forward
whose character was very prominent, or well-known to the
audience for som^striking and peculiar qualities ; and was
now requested to blindfold himself again, with the expecta­
tion of being gratified in this particular. Accordingly, a
gentleman, (Captain Bossier,) was prevailed upon tosubmit to
examination, who is more distinguished for certain bold and
strong characteristicks, than any other in our city. The
phrenologist was completely successful. He gave the char­
acter in bold and graphick style, and with an accuracy that
could scarcely have been equalled by any one of his numer­
ous acquaintances present. The conviction of skill and
truth on the part of the phrenologist, went home so power­
fully to the minds of the audience, that their applauses sev­
eral times interrupted the examination.
“But there was, at least, one skeptick who yet remained in­
corrigible; and this was a man, who, the writer is informed,
is notorious for his over-weening fondness for ‘the root of
all evil.* This worshipper of Midas could not be persuaded
but that Mr. F. had previous knowledge of the head just
examined, and therefore desired his own to be brought in
contact with the magical touchstone. But no sooner did the
inspired fingers of Mr. F. play upon the golden bumps of
our money-loving hero, than his acquisitive character burst
forth before the audience in so strong relief, as utterly to
shock the incredulity of its owner, who soon begged for
•quarters,’ and was let off—to the great diversion of all
present. AUDITOR."
From Mr. Candler of Baltimore, a strong opponent to
phrenology, the writer had the following statement. While
the character of Wm, Uwynn Jones, who is now in the Peni­
BY FACTS. 309
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
tentiary in B.t for parloining money from the Post-office
in that city, but who was, at the time the observation was
made, a member of a Christian church, and co-editor of a
daily paper in the city, had the confidence of the publick,
and had been promoted to several important stations of trust,
a phrenologist said to him, “Mr. Jone3, if I did not know
you to be an honest and an honourable man, I should think
you a rogue, for you have no organ of conscien., and love
money well enough to take tchai does not belong to you.”—
Though this remark passed unnoticed at the time, yet, a few
weeks after, when he was found guilty of stealing, forgery,
and lying, the remark of the phrenologist was recollected
and turned to the account of phrenology.
While the writer was on board a James-River steamboat
bound for Richmond, Va., something being said of phrenol­
ogy, Mr. Pegram of Richmond, desired him to examine the
head of a new acquaintance of his on board. The first re­
mark was, “ he has no conscience, not a particlethe next,
“ he is secret, mysterious, and artful, and has great practical
talent.” To Mr. P. he represented himselfas a wealthy plant­
er from the South; pretended that his trunk and money had
been stolen from him, &c. Accordingly, on arriving at R,
Mr. P. ordered forhim a suit ofclothes, introduced him to
some of his friends, from whom he received presents, and
advanced him $1300, in cash, for which he received a
check ofthe gentleman on a Washington Bank; and, finally,
Mr. P. gave him $70, with which to pay for his clothes on
taking them from the tailor’s. This money the rogue pock­
eted, and taking the clothes without paying for them, aisap-
peared. The check was not cashed, of course; and a sub­
sequent inquiry proved, thatthe southern planter was a con­
summate villain, a gambler, and a thief—without “any con­
science.” At the time of the examination, Mr. P. was too
thick with his new friend, and too skeptical on the subject
of phrenology to regard these forewarnings.
In the town of P., Va., L. N. Fowler examined the bead
of a young lady who had extraordinary approbate self-e.,
and firm., very large amat., adhes., combat.,destruct., secret.,
acquis., and cautious., large conscien., benev., and intellectual
faculties, and an active temperament. She was both vain and
proud in the extreme, and absolutely stubborn; was secret,
sly, and deceptive in a high degree; would steal, and when
asked why she stole, replied, “ because I can’t help it.”
310 PHRENOLOGY PROYED AND ILLU ST R A T ED
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
BY FACTS. 311
Though by the influence of conscien. and intellect, she ac­
knowledged her fault, and stroveagainstthem, yetshe would
still steal, would falsify, and then plead guilty. She had a
mostviolenttemper,ana withall her raging passions, display­
ed unusual intellect.
In Portsmouth, Va., the writer saw a lad about 14 years .
old, in whom acquis, is immensely large, so much so as to
project beyond the other organs, secret, large, conscien.
small, the upper portion of the forehead low, narrow, and
retiring, and cautious, extremely large. His entrance to this
pleasant village, was greeted by this hopeful youth in the
character of an importunate beggar, with the pretence that
his sick mother was in a starving condition, and wanted a
little money to get her some bread. He begged long and
most earnestly, setting up several pleas, all of which proved
to be utterly false; and when a piece of money was Anally
tendered, he seized it with the utmost avidity, clapped it to
his mouth in ecstasy, and immediately renewed his-request
for more, accompanied with other pretences. A second and
a third piece of money were received with equal transports
of delight, and his suit for more, still renewed. In his hat
were to be seen old nails, bits ofpaper, and an abundance of
shells, &c., which his acquis, had hoarded up. Every day
at low tide he might be seen wading through the mud knee
deep, and at high tide, again at his begging in the manner
just described; and when he could make money by it, he
showred himself quite an adept at lying. Of course, the
main interest of this case, turns upon the fact, that the traits
of character displayed by the lad, perfectly correspond
with his phrenological developments.
The writer’s publick examinations in R, seemed very
much to astonish the citizens on account of their accuracy,
and to convince them of the truth of phrenology. After the
first,lecture, one gentleman, in behalf of several, came to
ask ifthe examiner did notknow Capt. Jarvis, the gentleman
examined, and when answered in the negative, replied,
“then, sir, l amperfectly satisfied ofthetruthofphrenology.’*
An elderly ladyin R, was described as possessing, among
other things, extraordinary imitative power, which manifest­
ed itself not only in drawing, needlework, &c., but even in
mimickry. Her brother remarked, that he could not have
delineated her character with greater accuracy, except that
he had never seen the least signs of her talent for mimickry.
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
Soon, however, it was proved, that, in early life, she was
unsurpassed among her acquaintances, for her talent at
“taking off” the peculiarities of individuals, and for relating
anecdotes and stories.
B a k e r .—The Hon. Judge Baker, who is distinguished
in that part of the country for his profound knowledge of
law, his ability to collect, analyze, and clearly present, facts
and arguments, for his discrimination and practical talent,
as well as for his highmindedness, weight ofcharacter, un­
bending integrity, and the nobler traits of human nature,
possesses a high head, large self-e., firm., ven., and conscien.;
very large benev., compar., event., individ., and local., and
large caus., form, size, order, and lang.—the very organs
indicative of these characteristicks.
The following remarks were made by one of the editors
of a Norfolk paper, but with an especial reference to an ex­
amination of his son.
“ In our presence, Mr. Fowler has examined the heads of
several individuals with the bent of whose dispositions we
were somewhat familiar, and we must confess our surprise
at the accuracy, as well as the facility, of his delineations
of their characters, with which it was impossible for him to
have made an acquaintance through any other medium than
his skill in phrenology.”
In ---------L. N. Fowler examined the head of a female
who was considered deranged on the subject of religion,
and who wasa religious melancholick and despondent. The
organs of cautious, and conscien. were developed in an
extraordinary degree, and so sensitive to the touch, that she
complained bitterly of the pain caused by the application
of the hand to either of these portions of the head. Yen.
was also very large, and hope and self-e. small.
Ata lecture in Petersburgn,Va.,the instructer oftheschool
taught in the lecture-room, proposed a pupil for examination,
who wasdescribed aspossessing extraordinary construct.,im-
itat., form, ideal., and colour, and, consequently, as unsurpass­
edin his talenttodraw, paint,and usetools withdexterity,and,
also, tomimick. So extraordinary were these developments,
that the teacher was appealed to for the correctness of the
description; and he replied, that he had seen no manifestation
of such talents, but thought that phrenology was at fault
with respect to them; but when the appeal was made to the
schoolmates of the boy, there were a dozen voices in con­
312 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by
BY FACTS. 313
formation of what had been stated, each one telling what th»
lad had made, or drawn, or painted, and all agreeing that
his mimickry of the peculiarities and oddities of others, con­
stituted one of their principal diversions. Among other
pToofs, a painting of Minerva executed by him, was cited
as a remarkable specimen of juvenile talent.
Cherry.—Among the many exemplifications of phre­
nology, none are more worthy of notice than the head of
Mr. Cherry. It is very large, and in it, caus. and compar.
are prodigiously great; the perceptive faculties only moder­
ate, concent., firm., self-e., hope, cautious., consci. benev.,
ideal., and mirth., either large or very large, ven. small,
and marvel, very small. The writer saw, and the world
will doubtlessone daysee, evidences ofa deep, philosophical,
and original genius in his inventions, as prodigious, indeed,
as are his organs of caus. and compar. His large concent,
obliges him, whenever he becomes interested in any particu­
lar subject or thing, to dwell upon it until it is completed,
and frequently prevents him from attending to lessons of in­
terest and instruction, because he cannot draw off his mind
from subjects that have previously taken possession of his
thoughts.
The writer, in company with several distinguished citi­
zens of Williamsburgh, Va., visited the Lunatick Asylum
ha that place, where the first subject presented, possessed ex­
traordinary amat., very large adhes., firm., concent., benev.,
and lang., and small acquis, and secret. Disappointed love
was the principal cause of his derangement; and, in accord­
ance with his small secret, and very large benev. and lang.,
he was constantlytalking about his amours, his sweethearts,
&c. He was generally kind in a very high degree, but,
when his firm, was excited, he was obstinate and even
mulish. The gentleman’s name is James Roon.
Of another, it was remarked, that he had extraordinary
firm., self-e., adhes., and benev., and was, therefore, byturns,
very stubborn or very obliging—that he had large mdivicL
and full event., with but small caus.; and, consequently,
that he could do what he was told to do, but could not un­
derstand the application of means to ends. The keeper of
the asylum replied, “ It is exactly so, throughout.”
In the head of John Kinchelloe, self-e. projected prodi­
giously, so much so, that the writer*» remarks upon him,
turned mainly upon this organ. He appeared exceedingly,
14
Digitized by Google
ostentatious; told the company that he was a vastly greater
man, as to talents,than any other in America; was to be the
next president; had the destiny of the world in his hands;
and when one of the company remarked, that he was from
Richmond, he replied, that he had special business with the
Governour and Common Council of that city.
Six or eight other cases equally striking, were depicted
with such accuracy as to astonish and surprise the keeper
beyond measure, who, previous to this visit, had been not
only an entire skeptick in phrenology, but a prominent op-
poser to it. x
' Arthur Tribble possessed very large combat., destruct,
and cautious., and was surly, savage, and so dangerous that
he was kept manacled. Another, in whom acquis, was very
large, had his hat full of old nails, shells, and such other
trumpery as he could pick up in the yard. Love of money
caused his insanity.
The keeper accounted for the correctness with which the
first subject was described, by supposing that those who
accompanied the examiner, had previously related to him
the history of the man, and, accordingly, after that, he se­
lected several himself of whom he knew the examiner
could have heard nothing, which, as he afterwards declared,
were described with as great correctness, as he could have
done after a daily observation of their conduct for from six
to twelve years.
Each of the professors, and several of the students, of
Williamsburgh College, are living witnesses ofthe truth of
phrenology, and furnish admirable illustrations of its prin­
ciples; but having already dwelt quite too long upon these
“facts,” a decent respect for our readers, requires, that we
should omit a particular enumeration of them.
L a y .—On a visit to Batavia, N. Y. in the autumn of
1835, the narrator, O. S. Fowler, was introduced, by Mr.
Kirkham to G. W. Lay, Esq., member of Congress from
Genesee Co.; and being forcibly struck with the extraor­
dinary developement of many oi his phrenological organs,
particularly those of the perceptive faculties, he proceeded,
with the permission of Mr. L., to give a description of his
leading traits of character and talents. He described him
as possessing an extraordinary memory of facts and circum­
stances, and even of their minute particulars and details, as
well as of persons, places, the relative position of objects;
Zl 4 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AJÍD ILLUSTRATED '
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
BY FACTS. 315
\xA of expressions; as having a passionate fondness for
learning, oratory, elegance, and for travelling and viewing
natural scenery; as possessing a superiour professional and
business tact, a very shrewd and critical turn of mind, a
happy talent for comparing, illustrating, and analyzing, a
keen, quick perception of the ludicrous, and a great deal of
tact, point, and sarcasm, accompanied with an ability to use
up his opponent; as highminded and manly, pre-eminently
ambitious and enterprising, and always aspiring to some­
thing great and commanding; as spirited, energetick, and
prompt, a happy speaker, excellent in making a bargain,
highly honourable, but not over scrupulous and conscien­
tious. These remarks were deduced from the following
combinations. Mr. Lay’s head is above the common size,
and his temperament, active. He has very large compar.,
ideal., hope, individ., local., and event., and the residue of the
perceptive faculties are large, together with his combat., de-
struct., secret., acquis., self-e., approbat., firm., benev., mirth.,
caus., amat., adhes., philopro., and cautious., and his con-
scien. is only moderate or full. He is, therefore, possessed
of uncommon natural talents, isvery social and obliging, and
incapable of doing any thing degrading or unworthy the
character of a gentleman.
At a publick examination in the same place, the wri­
ter discovered, among other things, extreme combat., and
destruct., with small benev., in one of the subjects exam­
ined, and, accordingly, described him as exceedingly cruel,
disposed to delight in barbarity, and given to the outbreak-
ings of a most brutal temper. In confirmation of this state­
ment, J. Churchill, Esq., remarked to one of the authors,
(S. Kirkham,) that he was skeptical upon the subject of
phrenology until he heard the character of this individual
described; but that the character of the man (which he un­
derstood most perfectly, having been brought up with him)
was so extraordinary, particularly in reference to his'revolt­
ing and horrid cruelty of disposition, and had been so accu­
rately hit off by the phrenologist (who must have been an
utter stranger to him) as to change his mind in regard to
the science. In illustration, Mr. C. further remarked, that
he had frequently known the said individual, when a you.n,
to catch squirrels and chop theirfeet off, and then let them
run, merely for the sport of it! At other times* he would
make an incision in the skin of a squirrt1,and, with a quill,
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
316 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
inflate the skin ofthe little animal, and then let it run again!
At other times, again, he would pluck the feathers from
birds, amputate their limhs%
and devise and execute various
other kinds of tortures upon animals of various descriptions,
and then appear to be in perfect raptures of diabolical de­
light whilst witnessing the writhings, contortions, and other
expressions of agony in his innocent victims.
This case suggests two points of.inquiry not' unworthy
the candid attention of disbelievers in phrenology. 1. It
presents us with two individuals, brought up under the same
roof, but possessing dispositions widely different; the one,
though not inferiour in talents to the other, even from a
child, delights in cruelty and bloodydeeds, and at the age of
thirty,becomes adrunken vagabond anda grovelling wretch j
the other, revolts at cruelty and despises every base pursuit,
and at thirty, is a lawyer and a respectable member of so­
ciety. Now, whence springs this difference of character?
Is it the effect of education alone ? or has nature something
todo with it? And, 2. let it spring from whatever source
it may, wherein is phrenology responsible, for merely ascer­
taining the fact, and pointing out the difference, when guided
solely by the external signs upon the head? Phrenology
responsible for the traits of character it discovers in men ?
What absurdity ! nay, what stupidity ! Does the phrenolo­
gist create the “bumps,” or the disposition which cultivates
them, and which causes their increase? On such a principle
of reasoning, we might, and with equal propriety, arraign
phrenology for not discovering as much metaphysical talent
in the dog as in a philosopher, and for not finding as large
an organ of local, in the latter as in the former.
In the possession of the Lyceum in Fredericktown, Md..
is the cast of the scull of a murderer, who was hung some
three years since, in which combat..and destruct. are swelled
out in an extraordinary degree, and all the other selfish
propensities appear very large. He was not only guilty of
murder, but even when a boy, used to amuse nimself by
cutting off the feet of pigs, and then applying to them the
lash, in order tosee them attempt to run, and by other simi­
lar acts of cruelty and torture.
At a public lecture in Prattsburgh, N. Y., six individuals
were selected for examination by a rank opponent to phre­
nology; but, inasmuch as the writer had once lived in the
place, he was requestedtobeblindfolded, lest he should judge
Digitized by b o o g i e
BY FACTS. 317
from a previous knowledge of their characters. The first
subject presented, was a violent opposer of religion, infidel
in his belief, violent in his temper, stubborn, and withal a
great mechanical genius; and such he was described to be
throughout. The next was described as highly conscien­
tious, talented, religious, eminently pacifick, &c. and, in the
main, directly opposite to the first. After their examination,
Deacon Linsley, who knew both perfectly well, and who,
till that time, had been a disbeliever in phrenology, observed,
that, since these two individuals, whose characters were di­
rectly opposite in almostevery particular, had been examined
in succession, and the points of difference between them
correctly pointed out, and that, too, when the examiner was
blindfolded, and, consequently, unable to judge of character
except from the shape of the head, phrenology must be a
true index of character. What is still more, one of these
gentlemen had been examined the preceding evening, and
both descriptions precisely agreed.
S p a u l d in g .—Among others selected for examination on
the same occasion, was the Rev. Henry H. Spaulding, Mis­
sionary to the Indians that have removed west ofthe Missis­
sippi. After his extreme firmness and high moral qualities,
particularly his very large benev., or disinterested and strong
desire to do good to his fellow-men, had been described, in
passing his hand along the arch of the eyebrow, the writer
felt a deep depression where the organ of colour is located,
and, struck with surprise, he exclaimed, “this gentleman has
no organ of colour, and can hardly tell white from black.”
After the lecture was over, Mr. S. observed, that, os had been
stated, he was utterly unable to distinguish colours; that, ex­
ceptblack and white, all colours and shades of colours looked
alike to him, and all appeared of a dingy, indistinct hue;
that his wife would never trust him to purchase any article
of clothing whatever, because he seemed tobe utterly desti­
tute of all power of distinguishing, and even of discerning,
them. This fact we deem an important one. The eye­
sight ofthis gentleman, isperfectly good; he reads correctly,
uses words with facility, thinks and writes with unusual
power, seldom forgets faces, and is a superiour scholar; yet
his power of distinguishing' colours, is almost wholly want­
ing. We ask, then, whether the same mental power which
perceives colours, also perceives forms, and places, and the
force of arguments? If so, why should the first of thesa
Digitized by L.ooQle
facultiesbewholly wanting in the Rev. Mr. S., and the lasto(
them be unusually strong in him? Will anti-phrenologicaJ
metaphysicians have the kindness just toexplain these simple
and common phenomena ?
Linsley.—Deacon Linsley is certainly one of the most
devoted and consistent Christians—the most fervent and de­
vout in his addresses to the throne of grace, the most meek,
and penitent, and forgiving of men. Accordingly, his head
is not only very high, but it isalso very deep from the supe-
riour anterior to the superiour posterior portion, and greatly
arched by the extraordinary development of his benev. and
ven. His intellectual faculties generally, are large: hence
his uncommon share of good sense, mingled with his piety.
His philopro. and adhes. are very large; and hence the suc­
cess with which, for many years, he has superintended Sab­
bath-schools and Bible-clasSes.
When the writer was a boy, he was wont to listen to the
marvellous stories of one of his fellow-townsmen, who al­
ways magnified every thing he related, especially if it per­
tained tohimself, till it appearedto besomething really great,
singular, and wonderful. Accordingly, on revisiting his
native town, he sought his old story teller, and found that in
his head, the organs of marvel., hope, approbat., and lang.,
were largely developed.
From a mere boy, one of Ms brothers was remarkable
for his propensity to throw stones, and, more especially, for
his adroitness and skill at it, as Ije was able in this manner,
to kill birds, squirrels, &c. As he grew up, he was equally
famous for going aloft at country “raisings,” &c.; and, ac­
cordingly, was found to possess very large weight, whilst
the writer, whose education, in this respect, has been the
same, is nearly destitute both of the organ, and of the fa­
culty, of weight. The same is true of colour.
One of his fellow-townsmen, who had always been noted
for his disbelief in the doctrines of the Christian religion,
as well as for his strenuous opposition to it, was found to
possess very small marvel, and ven., and small conscien.
N e w Y o r k C it y .— But, next to Washington, New
York furnishes facts and demonstrations as perfectlyconclu­
sive in proof and illustration of phrenology as any chymical
or anatomical demonstrations.
At the first publick lecture delivered in this city, in, the
autumn of 1836, two of the authors, O. S. and L. N. Fow-
SIS PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
BY FACTS.
!er were present,"-and the first person who submitted to an
examination, was examined by one of the lecturers in the
absence of the other, and then by the other; and (it being
a striking case) the same description, not only in the main,
but, also, in the details, was given by both.
The next individual was described as possessing an ex­
cessive development of amatMwith very large selfish pro­
pensities and sentiments, and a fair share of intellect. As
much'was said of his amat. as propriety would permit, and
the whole examination turned upon this organ, his combat.,
and destruct, and small conscien. A few days after, the
Rev. Mr. Walter, pastor of the church from which this in­
dividual had been cut of£ stated to the writer, that, in conse­
quence of his amours with the wives of others, he had
broken upseveral families, andwas then living with the wife
of another man (since divorced;) that the violence of his
temper was ungovernable; and that he appeared to have no
compunctions of conscience. He added, that several of his
church members who heard the examination, stated that it
was so characteristick as perfectly to astonish them.
Smith.—At their second lecture in N. Y., Mr. S. B.
Smith, late a Romish Priest, and now editor ofthe “ Down­
fall of Babylon,” was selected for examination. He was
foundto possess a large head, developed mainly in the coro­
nal region, with very large firm., self-e., benev., form,order,’
caus. and compar., large hope, conscien., combat., adhes.,
mirth, ideal., imitat., lang., calcu., size, local., and cautious.,
only moderate destruct., time, and secret., and small mar­
vel. The inference was, that he possessed commanding
talents joined with great energy and efficiency ofcharacter;
resistance, and moral courage in a pre-eminent degree,with­
out harshness or a desire to injure even his enemies; that
he must bea publick man and distinguished in his sphere;
an original and profound thinker, and a logical reasoner; a
distinguished scholar, and possessed of integrity; very cau­
tious and judicious, and ye$, enterprising ; a theologian and
moral reasoner of the first class, and possessed of extraor­
dinary form, or power of recollecting faces, detecting typo­
graphical erroure, &c.; -a first-rate critick, and perfectly
systematick, nay, almost “old-maidish” about having things
in order. But his superiour talents as a moral and theology
ical reasoner,weredwelt dpon ashis great forte-—his leading
characteristick. At the time of the examination, Mr. S.
319
Digitized by Google
was utterly unknown to the writers, and as far a3 they have
since learned his history and character, the coincidence be­
tween them and the publick description given, is palpable
and striking throughout, and some portions of it so much so
as to be incapable of amendment or improvement. The
hardships which he has endured, the opposition and perse­
cution which he has met with, the heart ofa Christian hero,
and the high moral character, which he has displayed in
his ready renunciation of a religion which he felt to be
wrong, and that, when, by so doing, he knew he should
draw down upon his devoted head the anathemas and the
vengeance of the whole Romish church, his incredulity in
not believing Romish dogmas, the clearness of his argu­
ments presented in the “ Downfall,” (due allowance being
made for that enthusiasm which is begotten by dwelling so
long upon a highly exciting subject,) the anecdote of Mr. H.
R. Piercy, (see note to p. 222.,) the “Synopsis” translated by
him—these things, one and all, show a perfect coincidence
between the description of his character, of which the pre­
ceding is a mere abstract, and his real character and talents
as evinced both in his publick and private life:—see relative
size of his organs in the Table.
Brown.—At a subsequent lecture, Mr. Goold Brown,
author of a Grammar, was examined, and described as pos­
sessing a high degree ofcritical acumen, and a happy talent
for comparing, analyzing, and illustrating, and especially as
a verbal critick and linguist; as somewhat eccentrick in his
manners, rigidly exaet and honest, and somewhat dogmat­
ical ; but, withal, as possessing rather an extravagant organ
of love of approbation and popularity, which would make
him rather boastful, and fond of tellmg what great things
he had done, &e.; and, in confirmation ofthe correctness of
these statements, many anecdotes have since been related to
the writers, O. S. and L. N. Fowler.
At another lecture in N. Y., a well-dressed lad was
brought forward. The first remark made of him, was, that
he possessed an extraordinary organ of secretsuch a de­
velopment, indeed, as the examiner had seldom, if ever*
seen; that, consequently, he was cunning, artful, sly, deceit­
ful, equivocating, and evasive j that it was often next to im­
possible to extort the truth from him, and that nothing could
be known from what he said; that his acquis, was also very
large, and coBScien. small, and* consequently* that he was o
9 2 0 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND IL L U ST R A T E D
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
BY FACTS. 321
rogue, and would steal, as well as lie, and manifest un­
wonted dexterity, not only in stealing, but also in concealing
the plunder; that he had no compunctions of conscience,
and could not be made to feel guilty; that he was not at all
benevolent, but the reverse; that his reasoning powers were
very deficient, and yet, that he was quick to observe, and
had an extraordinary memory of facts, and very large lang.
or “gift of the gabsmall combat, and large cautious., and
was, therefore, a coward; and that he possessed an extraor­
dinary fondness for children.
The following is astatement of his character, the principal
part of which was made at the time, before the audience, by
the individual who brought him forward, and the rest subse­
quently communicated tothe authors bythe same gentleman.
“ This lad, who is aboutthirteen years old, wasborn in Cana­
da; when about five years old, was found to be so very fond
of children, that he was frequently employed by gentlemen
to amuse their children, and even infants, from which he was
taught by his mother, (as he says,) to steal the coins about
*heir necks, and such other things as he could lay his hands
upon; that, on the occurrence ofa fire, he stole money from
the pocket of a person, and blacked it, pretending that he had
found it, yet, as it was a pocket-piece, it was easily identified;
that for a long time he had been in the habit of taking small
sums from a shoemaker in Greenwich*st. N. Y., with whom
he is now living as an apprentice; that when one theft after
another was detected and proved upon him, he would so­
lemnly declare, and call his God to witness, that each one
was the last; that he would frequently protest, by all that
was good or great, that he told the truth, and soon after­
wards declare, that what he had before said, was wholly
false, but that what he now swore to, was certainly true;
that he was very adroit in meeting charges against him, and
always ready with an excuse for his wickedness; (small
conscien.;) that, to prevent suspicion, he would often accuse
other boys of stealing apples from a poor woman who sold
them in the streets, and pretend to pity her, when lie himself
stole them every day, and had laid up half a trunk full;
that he would falsifyeven whennothingcouldbe gained by it;
that he wasan arrantcoward, and would quail beforethe stern
look of his playmates, and always run if they threatened
him; that his judgment was extremely limited, and yet he
showed great tact in learning to do some things; that he
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
322 PHRENOLOGY PROTEO ANE ILLUSTRATES
was admirable in pleading his own case, and was, withal t
saperstitious Catholick (his ven. and marvel., being large.)
For the truth of the foregoing particulars, we refer to Mr.
Rufus Dawes, co-editor of the N. Y. Mirror, and to the
crowded audience who witnessed the examination in Clin-
ton Hall, as well as to a cast of the head of this hopeful
youth, which they keep for sale at their office in the same
place :—see relative size of his organs in the Table.
C h a n a n d E n g .— The Siamese Twins* Eng and Chan,
furnish anotherstriking exampleofthe truth of phrenological
science. It is well known that their traits of character, in­
cluding their feelings, passions, abilities, dispositions* modes
of thinking, of acting, and so forth, are so much alike as
frequently to start the preteiyse and induce the belief, that
they possess but one mind, or, at least, that, in consequence
of the wonderful, physical connexion of their bodies, there
exists between them a similar union of mind, or such a one
as to cause both minds to think, feel, and act simultaneously
and alike. Although this isa merepretence, yet the founda­
tion of it remained to be developed and explained by phre­
nology. In the autumn of 1836, at the Washington Hotel,
N. Y., their heads were examined by the narrators, O. S.
Fowler and S. Kirkham, when, to their surprise and admi­
ration, they were found to be most wonderfully and strik­
ingly alike,notonly in sizeand generaloutline,but even in the
minute development of nearly all the phrenological organs.
*The following note from the gentleman who print*the “Downfall” for Mr. 8.,
will confirm several points of character contained in the foregoing statement.
“Mr. Smith ia so very particularand over-exactto have even every little thing
(lone withthe utmost precision, astogive myworkmena greatdeal of extra labour,
and to provoke from them a nickname designating his 'old-maidish* peculiarities.
Asa proofreader,althoughMr. 8. hasbut recently turnedhis attentionto the busi­
ness, yet, by the force of what seems to be an innate talent, he excels many who
have had much more practice. He is one of the firmeet men I have ever seen ;
and when he thinks be is right, nothing can turn him: (firm, and self-e.) His
cautiousness is almost equally as strikingas his order and firmness.
“Before I heard Mr. Fowler’s description of Mr. Smith’s character, I had no
faith in phrenology, but this satisfied my mind of the correctness of the science:
forI considered the description accurate and striking throughout, so much so that
it could not be bettered by any of the gentleman’s most intimate acquaintances:
and thisopinion I expressed to Mr.Le Roy Sunderland atthe time, who was sitting
beside me. H. R. P1ERCY.”
Several other individuals made remarks similar to those of Mr. P. Among
them Mrs Smith and Mr. Carey, teacher in the deaf and dumb asylum of N. Y?
The approbation of the audience, and the testimony of all who knew Mr. S-„ was
f;eneral and unequivocal as to the examination being a perfect transcript of tha
ife and character of thisdistinguishedgentleman.
We will take the liberty to refer those of our readers who wish to satisfy them­
selves, to “ the Synopsis of the Moral Theology of the Church of Rome,” pub­
lished by Mr. 8., where the reasoning organs of Mr. S. are displayed to admira­
tion.
Digitized by Google
BY FACTS. 823
Some small difference, indeed, in the development of some
few of the organs, Joes exist; but then it is so slight as to
be detected only by the most minute and accurate observa­
tion. Among all the heads ever examined by the authors,
such an agreement of size, shape, and temperament, or any
thing approaching to it, in any two, they never before wit­
nessed or heard of; and hence, the striking coincidence be­
tween the characters and dispositions of the two brothers,
no longer remains a mystery; for, in addition to the general,
natural law, (which operates in this case,) that “like causes
produce like effects,” from the necessity of the case, their
training, habits, a7id education, have been alike, more per­
fectly so than that of any other two individuals that ever
lived. But notwithstanding this, it has been stated, that a
slight difference in the development of some few of their
organs, was pointed out by the phrenologists, and the conse­
quent difference in their characters, specified. In relation to
this point, as well as to all the points of agreement, both the
young gentlemen, and the gentleman whoaccompanied them,
fully confirmed and corroborated the statements of the ex­
aminers. Again we appeal to our opponents to answer
the question, If phrenology is not a true science, how could
these nice distinctions and discriminations of difference in
character, have been thus accurately pointed out merely by
an examination of the physical form of the head? And
again : If the disposition and talents of individuals, depend
solely on education or training, how could any difference
in these respects, exist between these twins?
At a publick lecture in Clinton Hall, a gentleman exam­
ined, was described as possessing, in an unusual degree, the
mathematical and reasoning organs, and, also, philopro., but
as subject toa depression of spirits, or 4
4the blues.” His char­
acter had been previously written out by his friends, and,
when read to the audience, it not only confirmed the cor­
rectness of the phrenological examination, but showed that,
on account of the predominance ofthosetraits of character
ijointed out by the phrenologist, the gentleman had been se-
ected as a proper test of the science.
A son of Dr. Barber, professor of Elocution, &c., was
also examined, and his traits of character minutely specified;
and, after the examination, almost every point stated, was
confirmed and illustrated by anecdotes of the M — —,—?
by his father. A
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
S24 PHREN0L00Y PROVED A£D ILLUSTRATED
Offen.—Butof all thepublick tests of phrenology, per­
haps no other one ever made so extensive and decided an im­
pression in its favour, as the examination of Benjamin Offen,
a distinguished infidel lecturer, which took place in Clinton
Hall on the evening of the 28th Jan., 1837. As this exam­
ination was made in the presence of, at least, one thousand
spectators, who are living witnesses of the truth of the fol­
lowing account of it, the authors trust that its accuracy
will not be doubted by the general reader.
In acceptance of a previous challenge in which the ex­
aminers had invited the publick to “test the science in any
and every way which their incredulity or ingenuity might
suggest, by choosing their own subjectsfor publick examina­
tion, or otherwise,” an elderly gentleman of very ordinary
dress and general appearance, came forward: and in order
to give the audience the opportunity of the double test of
hearing a description of the character given by each of the
examiners in the absence of the other, L. N. Fowler retired
from the room accompanied by a gentleman, whilst O. S. F.
proceeded with the examination.
About the first thing stated by the examiner, was, that the
gentleman’s conscien. was moderate, his ven. small, and
his marvel, almost wholly wanting; and, consequently, that
he must be a total skeptick, particularly in regard to reli­
gion, especially revealed religion, and all the popular forms
and doctrines connected with it. He also stated that his
combat., destruct., self*e., firm., adhes., and knowing and
reasoning organs, particularly his compar., were very large,
and his cautious, and secret., small; and hence, that he was
much inclined to debate, and ready, on all occasions, to de­
clare his disbelief, and advance and defend his opinions.
His event., lang., mirth., and imitat., were likewise described
as very large; and hence the inference was drawn, that,
although his general appearance did not seem to justify the
conclusion, yet he must be a publick speaker, and as such,
quite distinguished—that, in debate, he was considered a
great reasoner, and woulddisplay a great command ofwords,
facts, and arguments; that he employed much action, and
was unsurpassed in his powers of ridicule, particularly in
employing severe epithets and ludicrous and sarcastick com­
parisons. But among many other things, his benev. was
dwelt upon as one of his strongest traits of character, and
his acquis, was stated to be so small as to prevent his ever
Le
BY FACTS. 825
becoming rich. He was represented as kind-hearted, oblig­
ing, and generous to a fault, but, at the same time, (small
conscien.,) as not always actuated by moral principle, or the
right and the wrong in the case, and as having little or no
feeling of the guilt or sinfulness of any of his acts. For
some points of this character, see first paragraph under
conscien. moderate, p. 131, also 8 lines at the bottom of the
same page, 11 lines at the top of the next, the last 5 of
the same paragraph, the first paragraph on p. 135, and be-
nev. large, and very large, p. 155,—together with the rela­
tive size of his organs in the Table of Measurements.
After the first examination had closed, L. N. Fowler was
called in, and proceeded with an examination of the same
head; and so perfectly, on every point,did his description
of the character and talents of the man, agree with the
first description, that the old charge of collusion was again
brought up, although the fact was, that neither ofthe exam­
iners had any previous knowledge of the individual, nor in­
tercourse with each other during the examination; and this
point was proved at the time, to the entire satisfaction of
every candid hearer.
After the close ofthe second examination, Mr. Vail (a lec­
turer in Tammany-Hall) arose, and remarked, that “thegen­
tleman just examined, was Mr. OfFen, the celebrated lecturer
in Tammany Hall; that he had known him intimately for
eight or nine years; and that, as far as he was enabled to
judge, he must pronounce the descriptions of character and
talents given by the phrenologists, as remarkably correct
throughout, excepting that he thought the elder brother had
x not given Mr. O. quite credit enough for his conscientious­
ness, but that, with the modified and plainer description of
the same trait of character as given by the younger brother,
he was satisfied.” Mr. V. then went minutely into his
character, taking it up, point after point, and illustrated most
strikingly, and confirmed, each as stated by the phrenolo­
gists. Among other things, he said that, “though a poor
man, Mr. O. was a very benevolent m a n a n d in proof of
it, he begged leave to state the fact, that “Mr. O. lived out
of the city, and near a common, upon which unfeeling per­
sons were in the habit of turning old and worn-out horses to
starve, and that, out of pity, Mr. O. was in thfe habit of Ic­
ing up these hoises and feeding them at his own expense.”
Finally, Mr. Oftenaroseand confirmed thecorrectness of
Digitized by L.ooQle
the descriptions given by the examiners,and remarked, that,
“Although hitherto skeptical in regard tothe truth of phre­
nology, yet the remarkable accuracy with which they had
delineated the various features of his character, had changed
his mind in regard to it, so far, at least, as to compel him to
believe that there was much truth in it.” But touching
their description of his low conscien., he seemed not to be
fully satisfied. He therefore continued: “The phrenolo­
gists have stated that I have manyfriends. This, I believe,
is true. They have also said that I have many enemies.
This may be true; but I ought nottohave them, for I never
wronged a man in my UfeP
O. S. Fowler then took occasion to remark, that “ He con­
sidered this declaration of Mr. O. as proofdemonstrative of
his possessing a low conscience, for, he was sure, that every
man who has a large one, will be ready to condemn himself
and acknowledge that he has often donewrong to his fellow-
men.”—See conscien. large, p. 126, and conscien. small and
very small, p. 132, 133.
In a subsequent conversation, Mr. O. stated to the writer,
that, from his earliest recollection, he had known no standard
of moral rectitude and no code of moral principle or of vir­
tue, except that which tended to relieve human suffering, or
to augment human happiness; and,moreover,that he regard­
ed that, and that alone, as sinful, the effect of which was to
prevent the enjoyment, or to increase the sufferings, of his
fellow-men. Of abstract justice, right, or duty, he had no
conception ; yet he could neverbean atheist. Whether there
was, or was not, a future state of existence, he did not know;
Out¿/such a thing does exist, he,and all others composing it,
should be happy. He said that he was perfectly astonished
at the description of his standard of moral principle. He
also added, that he was, for many years, a deacon ofan evan­
gelical church.
F rances W right.—However striking many ofthe pre­
ceding facts may be, the authors feel confident, that none of
them surpass in individual interest, or as proofs of the truth
of phrenology, the phrenological developments of the cele­
brated lady whose name heads this paragraph—now, Mad-
am Darusemont. As hers is one of the most remarkable
characters of the present day, and as her phrenological de­
velopments throughout, are found perfectly to agree with
her peculiarities of character and disposition, this may be
326 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by
BY FACTS. 327
considered one of the best tests ofthe-truth of phrenological
science that can be produced or desired. But there is one
circumstance which renders this case particularly gratifying
to the phrenologist; and that is, the character and talents of
Madam Darusemont are so well kno'wn, that the greatest
skeptick in phrenology, has not “a loopleft tohang a doubts
upon,” concerning the perfect coincidencebetween her char­
acter and her phrenological developments, as presented in
the Table of Measurements.
On a visit to this lady in the present vear, (1837,) the fol­
lowing observations were made with the greatest care, by
O. S. Fowler and S. Kirkham, and noted down at the time";
so that their correctness may be fully relied upon.
The head of this distinguished individual is considerably
above the ordinary size, and her temperament such as to
combine the highest activity, with great strength and power.
But her head is developed in such a manner as to present a
character decisively masculine,combining great boldness and
energy, with unusual intellectual power. In other words, her
head ismuch larger and wider inthe basiliar region, than it is
in the coronal; and, again, the posterior portion ofthe coronal
region, is much larger than the frontal, notwithstanding her
forehead is large, and fully developed throughout; but the
lower and middle portions of it, are relatively much larger
than the upper and lateral portions. In phrenological lan­
guage, the perceptive and semi-perceptive faculties, together
with compar., are really very great, whilst caus., though
large, is relatively smaller. The authors do not recollect
ever tohaveseen,in a woman, so much intellect urged onward
by so prodigiously great propelling powers; and hence her
acknowledged talents, combined with masculine energy,
which have gained for her a fame throughout the world.
As to her individual organs, amat. is large and adhes.
very large, whilst philopro. is only full; and, accordingly,
the greatest objection to her theory against matrimony, is,
that it does not sufficiently provide for children * Concent,
is small; and hence the intensity of her mental operations,
and the rapidity with which her mind passes from one sub­
ject to another. Combat, is very large, and destruct. large;
and hence, with her large mirth. and very large compar.,
*At the time the authors visited Madam Darusemont, she had lefther only child
(andayoung one, too) behind her InFrance, and her huobandhadgone back forft.
Digitized by L.ooQle
her point and severity, her witheringsarcasms, and the spirit
and f|re which are breathed into almost every sentence she
utters; andhence, also,thatdispositiontoresist,attack,combat,
debate, and defend, which forms one of the most prominent
points of her character. Acquis, is almost wholly wanting;
and hence the utter disregard of property as such, and the
looseandvague ideas upon the subject ofpersonal ownership
which constitute a part of her new code ofmorals. Hence,
too, the facility with which she joined Robert Owen in his
Community scheme, as tested on the brinks of the Wabash.
In further illustration ofthis trait ofcharacter, it is said that
she has never appropriated to her own use, one cent of the
avails of her lectures or of her writings: see p. 95.
Her cautious, is moderate; and a want of prudence and
discretion, it will readily be seen, has, more or less, charac­
terized her publick career. Secret, is very small; and
hence the directness, and plainness, and ingenuousness with
which, on all occasions, she speaks out just what she thinks
and feels: so that, let the world say what they may of her,
they cannot call her a hypocrite. Approbat. is weak; and
this manifests itself in her utter indifference, both in appear­
ance and in fact,towhat is thought or said of her, in her dis­
regard to reproach, and to being considered singular ; and
this, united with her combat, and destruct., causes her to
glory in encountering opposition. Her large self-e. and
firm., united with her combat, and destruct., and her deficient
ven., give her that daring boldness, independence, self-confi­
dence, unbending perseverance, highmindedness, and even
arrogance of character, and determined resolution, and ac­
knowledged efficiency, which shine so conspicuously in her
publick career : seep. 120.
All themoral organs, withtheexceptionofbenev.and hope,
are sodeficient,that the coronal portion ofher head isnarrow
and flattened. Benev.islargelydeveloped; anddoubtless she
has at heart, the good ofsociety and the advancement of hu­
man happiness; and she certainly considers herself a phi­
lanthropist ; but ven. isdeficient, and marvel, is sovery small
that no traces of it can possibly be discovered—smaller, if
possible, than in any other head which the authors have ever
seen; hence her disbelief in any thing which she does not
see demonstrated toher senses. Even the existence of a Su­
preme Being she questions, “because,” she says, “she can­
not see such a being, nor know any thing ofhim by any of
328 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
BY FACTS. 329
her senses.” Her conscien. is only moderate or small; and
hence the looseness of her moral code, her imperfect reason­
ings upon moral subjects, and her want of moral acumen;
which are very evident to every conscientious reader of the
'productions of her pen. Hope is full; and, without it, no
one would undertake what she, unaided and alone, has at­
tempted to accomplish. Hence, also, with her self-e., her
unbounded confidence in her own abilities and strength.
She professes tohave come to America this last time, for the
express purpose of enlightening our benighted minds in
morals and religion, and to instruct our ignorant statesmen
in a knowledge of the true principles of our republican gov­
ernment, and to show them what measures they must adopt
in order to save the ark of liberty from destruction !
Her ideal., imitat., lang., individ., event., and compar., are
all large or very large; and hence her acknowledged elo­
quence; which is really of the highest order. Her individ.,
event., and compar., are all very large, and nearly all her
other intellectual faculties are large; and hence her intel­
lectual greatness; heracknowledged superiority as a scholar;
her extensive information about matters and things in gene­
ral ; the copiousness, appropriateness, and elegance of her
historical and scientifick illustrations; and her great talent
for collecting statistical information, &c. Caus. is less than
compar.; and, accordingly, she exhibits more of a practical,
literary, matter-of-facttalent, than ofdeep, logical argument—
more ofclearness, perspicuity, and force of illustration, than
of close inductive reasoning—more of facts, analyzed and
systematized, than of profundity and depth of intellect. Her
reasonings upon first principles, in short, cannot be relied
upon: see Table.
Bennet.—Phineas Bennet, the distinguished inventer of
the new method of generating steam for the steam-engine,
furnishes a proof of the truth of phrenology so convincing,
and so clear an illustration of the practical application and
utility ofthe principles ofthe science, that,to omit to mention
his phrenological developments, would be doing injustice to
the science. His head is of the largest size, being seven
inches and three-eights in diameter where the hat fits to it,
but, in consequence ofthe extraordinary development of the
perceptive faculties and of construct., it is much larger a
little lower down.
His development of firm, is most astonishingly great, of
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
aelf-e.,veryconsiderable,andofconcent.,greater, perhaps,than
the authors haveever seen elsewhere. On aclose inspection,
his forehead appears really massive. Though generally
uniform, it is most developed in the region ofthe perceptive
faculties. His construct is wonderfully great, so as very
much to widen and deepen that portion ofthe head in which
it is located. His form is really prodigious, calcu. very
large, size extraordinary, and corapar. and caus. hut little
inferiour, whilst hope is scarcely full: see p. 162.
His firm., self-e., and concent., are sufficient to <?ive him
thatastonishing perseveranceand connectedness and determi­
nation ofpurpose which, inspiteof poverty, the reproaches of
his friends, the jeers of his enemies, and the apparently insur­
mountabledifficulties that,oneafteranother, arosebefore him,
held him forfourteen successive yearsupon onesingle inven­
tion—aninvention thatwillannuallysavetheworld many mil­
lions ofdollars in the expense of fuel and labour, and render
him as immortal as his illustrious predecessor Robert Fulton.
His concent, inspired him with patience, and enabled him to
concentrateall his powers upon this one point; his construct
and perceptive faculties, with his caus. and compar., gave to
these lastnamed qualities an inventive and mechanical direc­
tion; his indifferent hope allowed him fullytomature and per­
fect his plan, instead ofenticing?hi n to someother pursuit or
invention, whilst hisself-e. inspirecLhimwith therequisite self-
confidencetopushforward hisdesigns without encouragement
from others; his deficient imitat. neither enabled or disposed
him totakeany hint or pattern fromany othermachine, whilst
his inventive powers werethus left freeto produce something
wholly original. Now, any materially different organiza­
tion, would have prevented so glorious a result. This organi­
zation, then, taken in connexion with his invention, is cer­
tainly wonderful to contemplate. Mr. B. was brought to the
office of the writers by Col Haskett, and furnished with a
chart by L. N. Fowler, before he had even heard of suoh a
man or his invention; buta friendof Col. Haskett’s, on seeing
the chart given, was forcibly struckwith itsaccuracy, particu­
larly in reference to his concent., adding, that if Mr. B. ever
became interested in any subject, nothing could divert his
mind from it until he had finished the thing in hand. Th6
relative size of his organs as given at the time referred t<*
may be seen in the Table of Measurements, p. 347. Con-
ecien. is very large in his head; and, with the first mpney
330 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by L.ooQle
BY FACTS. 331
received from the success of his machine, he immediately
proceeded to pay up all those debts he had unavoidably con­
tracted"during his progress, and to amply compensate those
who had done him favours, before he thought about himself.
Mr. B. is also ascertained to be the inventer of the Amer­
ican Automaton Chess-player, by which the Messrs. H. are
said to have made a handsome fortune.
Mr.B.statedthat afterdeepandlongstudyuponhismachine,
he generally experienced a severe pain in the region of the
forehead and ofthe temples, and in showing where it was lo­
cated, placed his hand upon construct., cans., and compar:
see “increase ofthe organs by exercise,” pp. 365 to 370.
We again ask our opponents toaccount for this coincidence
between so remarkable a character and the corresponding
phrenological developments; and, if they are not satisfied
with our observations, to make observations for themselves.
W ynans.—Akin to Mr. B. is Mr. Wynans of New York,
who hasdistinguishedhimself, bothinthiscountryand inEng­
land. as a machinist. Four years since, he invented and ap­
plied tothe Manchesterand Liverpool Rail-Road,an improve­
ment called the outside bearing, which was immediately
adopted, both in thiscountry and in Europe. The amount of
power gained byit, is said tobevery great. He is also the au­
thor ofseveral other scarcely less important inventions, and is
now erecting a very large establishment in N. Y. for making
greatly improved locomotive engines, orders forwhich he has
received, not only from many ofthe principal rail-road com­
panies in this country, but'several from Europe. His loco­
motives are much less expensive, and much more efficient,
than those generally in use. He also invented those very
large eight-wheel cars which are coming into so general
use, and are both much less expensive, and much more con­
venient, than their predecessors. It may not be improper to
add, that, forseveralseasons, he has been employed, at one and
the same time, by four different rail-road companies, and is
paidfifteen hundreddollars annuallybyeach, simplyandsolely
to give advice,without beingobliged often to leave his other
business on this account, such ishis reputation asa machinist.
This gentleman, with his lady, entered the office of the
writer in Clinton Hall, perfect strangers; and the first re­
mark made of him, was, “that his mechanical genius and
talent were, beyond all question, not only the ruling feature
ofhischaracter,but greaterthan inone manin ten thousand.”
Digitized by LooQle
This was inferred from his extraordinary development of
all the organs that constituteboth an inventer and a machinist
of the first class—that is, from his extraordinary construct,
imitat., form, size, weight,order, calcu., local., compar., caus.,
and ideal. Now, let the reader contemplate all these united
in one and the same individual, whose talents as an inventer
and machinist have just been stated, and let him recollect,
that all these organs were described as giving those very
powers just enumerated, and that, too, in a degree no less
striking than they are actually found to exist—described
both by the writer, O. S. Fowler, and afterwards by L. N.
Fowler, who did not hear the first description, but whose de­
scription, accordingtothetestimonyof Mr. W., and also ofhis
lady, did not differ from the first either in these, or in any
other, points of his character, and then saywhether phrenol­
ogy is not deserving of belief.
Let it be observed, also, that in Mr. B., imitat. is deficient,
while in Mr. W., it is developed in a most astonishing de­
gree, forming a ridge almost as prominent upon his head as
the finger would form upon a plain surface. Accordingly,
the invention of Mr. B. is wholly original—being through­
out, entirely unlike any other; whilst those of Mr. W. con­
sist mainly of improvements upon the inventions of others.
This wilPserve to illustrate the influence of imitat. upon the
character, as well as upon construct.
Mr. W. has very large ideal., whilst Mr. B. has much
less; and hence the former embellishes by his improvements,
whilst the latter confines his whole attention to the mechani­
cal power alone.
Stephens.—Robert L. Stephens possesses a large head
and an unusually active temperament, together with those
organs strongly developed which give ambition and energy
of character. He has, also, very large construct., caus., com-
{>ar., imitat., individ., form, size, local., ideal., and hope, and
arge calcula. and order. Hence his extraordinarymechan­
ical ingenuity, as displayed in his improved methods of con­
structing steamboats, &c. His philopro. is very large; and
hence his extremefondness for pets, and especially for horses.
P owers.—Mr. Powers, a very celebrated artist in Wash­
ington, D. C., possesses extraordinary form, size, weight,
ideal., imitat., caus., compar., and construct., and has partic­
ularly distinguished himself forthe correctness of his marble,
miniature busts ofJudge Marshall, Calhoun, and other great
832 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
yGoogle
men ofthe nation—in which busts hedisplays hisform, size,
and imitat., with surprising success.
Mr. P., the clever artist who produced that admirable piece
of workmanship known as Ellen Tree, possesses a prodi­
gious head in point ofsize, and, in it, very large ideal., imitat.,
form, size, and all the other requisites ofan artist of the first
class; and such he was pronounced to be by one of the au­
thors before he was known to him.
Ames.—A young man of plain, unassuming manners,
and, as the vulgar phrase is, somewhat “countrified” in his
appearance, entered the officeofthe writers some time in Jan.
of the present year, (1837,) and desired a phrenological ex­
amination. He wasdescribed by L. N. Fowler and S. Kirk-
ham, neither of whom had ever seen him, or heard of him,
before, as possessing, among other things, extraordinary
powers of memory and observation, together with prodi­
giously great calculation. S. Kirkham, in particular, dwelt
upon his organ of calcu. as of very uncommon size—as alto­
gether larger than any thing ofthe kind he had ever seen, ex­
ceptin the boyMichael---------inthe Blind Asylum ofN. Y.,
(whose extraordinary powers of calculation, very nearly, if
not quite, equal those of Zera Colburn, and will be hereafter
spoken of,) and remarked that, in shape and size, the organ
in this young man, exactly resembled that in the lad, as well
as in the portraits of Zera Colburn.
But not only was calculation developed in a most extraor­
dinary degree, but also nearly all ofthe perceptive faculties,
particularly form, size, weight, individ., local., and event., to­
gether with fair caus. and large compar.; and, accordingly,
he was described as having the greatest imaginable curiosity
to see every thing in nature, and an ability to remember,
most accurately and perfectly, the shape, size, location, and
appearance of every thing he ever cast his eyes upon, as well
as everything he had ever heard or read—as having uncom­
mon talentsfor geometry, trigonometry, surveying, engineer­
ing, &c.
After the examination, at the request of S. Kirkham, the
young man stated, that his name was Nathan Ames—that,
m regard to his memory, he did not know that he had ever
forgotten any thing—that he commenced the study of arith-
metick at the age of 17, an¿went throughwith vulgar arith-
metick infive weeks—that the next winter he went to school
again sevenweeks, duringwhich time he went nearly through
BY FACTS. 333
Digitized by L.ooQle
with geometry and algebra, leaving off at quadratick equa­
tions—and that, afterwards, and without an instructer, he
mastered surveying in the evenings of four weeks—that he
has since practised surveying; is 22 years of age; and
expects soon to enter the engineer department under Gov­
ernment.—The correctness of every part of the foregoing
statement, the writers are prepared, at any time, to prove.
They, therefore, simply ask disbelievers in phrenology, to
explain, first,—How this young man is able to learn
more in calculation, &c., in a given number of weeks, than
is ordinarily learned in twice the number of months, unless
it is by means of the extraordinary faculties ascribed to
him by phrenology? and, secondly—How the extraordinary
power ofthese particular faculties, could have been so accu­
rately pointed out by the examiners, on the supposition that
phrenology is untrue 1
Dr. Griffin.—Whilst one of the authors, (O. S. Fow­
ler,) was lecturing in Newark, N. J., Dr. Smith invited him
to his office, and there requested that his eyes might be blind­
folded whilst he was examining and describing a particular
individual. Accordingly, Dr. Griffin wasseated in the chair,
and, in the presence of his wife and children, Dr. Smith, and
others, the following description was given of him.
Conscien:, caus., and compar., are all very large; accord­
ingly, the gentleman is naturally, not only very fond of the­
ology and moral metaphysicks, but is a deep and profound
moral reasoner, and, his combat, being also large, he must
be very fond ofdebating upon, and discussing, topicks of re­
ligious controversial character, or of polemical theology.
He possesses, also, great decision and force of character;
great integrity, and the highest regard for moral principle;
is very incredulous, and places his religion mainly in doin§
right and in doing good, throwing creeds and ceremonies
into the back ground ; is conspicuous for his imitative talent,
and for the appropriateness of his gesticulation; has a quick
and lively perception of the ridiculous, and is very sarcas-
tick; possesses talents of a high order, and combines the
elements of a great genius; has an unusual share of ideal.,
and, consequently, a lively imagination, which causes him
to express himself with glowing rapture and beauty. He
was likewise described as a critick, both logical and verbal,
of the very first order; as being a clear, strong, and lucid
reasoner—most devoted in his attachments, exceedingly fond
334 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
yGoogle
B Y FACTS. 330
of children, exceedingly apt in relating anecdotes, and in de­
scribing,—as more prone Jo thinking than observing, as ex­
ceedingly cautious, &c. These traits of character were
drawn from his very large compar., caus., ideal., imitat., be-
nev., conscien., approbat., lang., adhes., combat., and firm, ;
small marvel., only full ven. and individ., large mirth., de-
struct., and event. Dr. G. considered the description wrong
in relation tohisimitative power, his mirth., combat., and de-
struct.; from which, however, the writer appeals to the de­
cision ofthe publick.
It may be added, that Dr. G.*s head is unusually large,
his temperament highly excitable, all his organs sharp, his
forehead high, bold, and expansive, and compar. (a faculty
more conspicuous in his character than any other) projects
so as tostand out in bold relief: and this, with his ideal, and
lang., gives him that peculiar elegance and eloquence of style
and d^ivery which are ascribedto him.
Dr.Beecher.—This distinguisheddivineandtheologian,
and clear-headed reasoner, possesses a head much above the
ordinary size, and happily balanced. His constitution is
firm and dense, and his physical organization indicative of
great power in proportion to its volume. In addition to this,
conscien., caus., and compar., are all very large; and hence
his clearness and great power as a moral reasoner. Com­
bat. and destruct. are large; and hence his greatness in the
fieldofpolemical controversy, as also thatnervousness ofstyle
and force ofexpression by which his writings are character­
ized. His mirth, is large, which gives him that facetious
disposition and talent, and, with destruct. and combat., that
sharp vein of irony and sarcasm, which abounds in his dis­
courses, and which has so often called forth the censure of
his ministerial brethren. Yen. is below mediocrity, and
marvel, is small, whilst his firm, and self-e. are large; and
hence it is that he pays little or ho regard to the Westmin­
ster Catechism, the Church Discipline, and “ the good old
way,” merely because they have been handed down from
former generations; but he begs leave to think, and tointer­
pret the Bible according to the dictates of his judgment and
his conscien.
Dr.Alexander.—In the head of this distinguished or­
nament of the church, the organs of ven., firm., and self-e.,
are all very large; and hence, unlike Dr. B.f he adhere«
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
strictly and literally to the established church authorities,
and resists innovation, might and main : see p. 149.
In Dr. A. the intellectual' organs generally, are largely
developed, whilst compar. is very large ; and hence his crit­
ical acumen, and his general intellectual powers.
Stockton.—Thomas Stockton, formerly chaplain to
Congress, who stands almost unrivalled for his pulpit elo­
quence, as well as for his moral worth, possesses a very
large development of nearly all of the perceptive and semi-
perceptive organs, and, also, of ideal., imitât., compar., be*
nev., ven., and conscien. From his very large lang., individ.,
compar., and ideal., originate those truly splendid compari­
sons, personifications,andallegories,aswell asthat uncommoo
propriety, perspicuity, and elegance ofexpression, for which
he is sojustly celebrated : see p. 168, and middle of p. 227.
Ludlow.—The Rev. H. G. Ludlow, in company with a
friend of his, entered the office of the writer, and was de
scribed as possessingvery large ideal., imitât., adhes., mirth,
and benev. ; large lang., caus., hope, ven., conscien., appro-
bat., and philopro., and his character was deduced according­
ly. His friend, and also himself, considered the description
strikingly correct throughout, somuch so asfrequently toex­
press a firm conviction that the examiner was well acquaint­
ed with him. When the examination was concluded, L. N.
Fowler entered the office, and was requested to re-examine
the reverend gentleman, which he did with the same result
He was described by both as highly intellectual, exceedingly
devout and religious, and yet, toofacetious tomaintain, at all
times, a duedegree ofclerical gravity, and alsoas possessing
a great deal of tender feeling, of imagination, and of love of
popularity.
B u r c h a r d .—This distinguished preacher and revivalist,
forms one ofthe best subjects for testingthe truth of phreno­
logical science which our country furnishes. The size of
his head is large, but, when his temperament, which, for ac­
tivity and strength combined, the authors have never seen
surpassed, ifthey have seen it equalled, is taken into the ac­
count, his mental power and force must be set down qs alto­
gether extraordinary. His physical organization is remark­
ablydense and firm, and, also, m the highest degree, excita­
ble. Add to this the sharpness of his organs, and we have
combined a concatenation of circumstances which cannot but
produce an extraordinary intellectual character.
336 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
Digitized by LooQle
B Y FACTS. 337
As phrenologists, the writers have nothing to do with the
propriety or impropriety of this most zealous and most ec-
centrick gentleman’s “measures” or “modes of procedure;”
but they feel bound to say, that his phrenological develop­
ments plainly indicate a genius of^rare talents and uncom­
mon mental power—a popular speaker, and publick debater,
who, for vigour of thought, and force and clearness ofargu­
ment and illustration, for intensity, point, and pathos in his
appealstothe feelings andthe heart, as wellas forsingularity
ana sarcasm, in short, for soul-stirring and overwhelming
eloquence, has few equals.
His combat, and compar. are very large; and hence that
torrent ofstriking similes,allegories,and illustrations,which
he pours forth in his discourses; and hence, too, the cause
of their being so frequently drawn from scenes of war and
stirring strife, in which thecontending hosts ofthe Almighty
and of Satan are drawn up in battle array Add to these
his very large mirth, and imitat., and we have opened up the
phrenological fountain from which flow those wonderfully
striking and sometimes ludicrous comparisons and descrip­
tions which offendsomany of his graverbrethren, andwhich
he acts out in a manner still more comical. His conscien.,
firm., and hope, are allverylarge, which, with his very large
combat., and onlyfull cautious., give him that moral boldness,
that energyand enthusiasmtandalmostrecklessdaring, which
so strongly characterize his expressions and modes ofproce­
dure. His very large caus., combined with his still larger
conscien., gives him that clear perception of moral truths,
and that great ability to ieason upon them; which will
readily be acknowledged by all of his hearers similarly or­
ganized. Addto these his large ven. and very large benev.,
and we may fairly infer that his motives are good. His ap-
probat. is also very large, which throws a sprinkling ofam­
bition into his composition; and against this enemy of his
spiritual warfare, he acknowledged that he was obliged
strongly to contend.
His adhes. and philopro. are both uncommonly large;
and hence, go where he will, he is sure to draw around him
an interesting group ofdevotedfriends from among the “little
ones” in community; and hence, also, his unwearied efforts
to convert these to the faith of the Gospel. His concent, is
small; and hence his intensity of mental conceptions, and
the great variety of thoughts and topicks which he often in*
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
troduces into one discourse. Marvel, is small, which, com­
bined with his very large cans., induces him constantly to
resort to means by which to accomplish his ends, and to
adopt the “new-measure” doctrine of relying more upon
human agency and effort, than upon divine interposition, in
the conversion ofmen—the great bone of contention between
him and the “old-school” divines. In Mrs. B. marvel is
large and ven. very large ; in accordance with which, she
was described as differing from her husband in this respect,
and as relying more upon divine agency for the advance­
ment of religion in the world. On retiring from the room
of Mr. B., the writer fell in with the Rev. J. Leavitt, editor
of the N. Y. Evangelist, and, in reply to his inquiries re­
specting the developments of Mr. and Mrs. B., the writ«
mentioned this difference in respect to their marvel. Mr. L
then stated, that, in the morning of that day, he witnessed a
striking illustration of this difference intheircharacter. The
circumstance was this : in conversing about some important
thing that was to be done, Mr. B.*s cans, was very active is
devising the ways and means by which to accomplish it ; to
which Mrs. B.*s marvel, replied, “Let God do his own work,
and in his own way.”
To conclude, Mr. B.’s head is very uneven; and hence
his extravagances and eccentricitiesofcharacter : see Table
of Developments, p. 346.
Finney.—The Rëv. C. G. Finney has a very large head,
and a most favourable temperament; that is, one in which
the bilious and nervous predominate, accompanied with a
good share of the sanguine. His head is, moreover, of
great height and length, measuring six inches from the
opening of the ear to firm., ven., benev.. and compar., and
eight and one-eighth inches from individ. to philopro. and
being seven and three-eighths inches in average diameter.
His forehead is both high and broad.
His firm, and self-e. are really prodigious, whilst his ap
probat. and secret, are small ; hence that independence,
weight, and force of character, and that boldness, directness,
ahd even bluntness of speech, employed in addressing even
strangers upon the subject of religion, and which, in the
içairly part of bis career, brought down upon him the charge
of arrogance and impudence. Hence, also, his unyielding
perseverance,which, as well as independence, hascharacteri­
sed his whole course in life. His cautious, is large ; and,
338 PHRENOLOGY FROTSP AND ILLUSTRATE»
Digitized by Google
339
without great prudence, no one could have obtained so com­
manding an influence in the church as this gentleman now
sways. - His acquis, is very small ; and his disregard for
money is such, that he takes very little interest even in the
pecuniary affairs of his own family. Imitât, is very large,
and ideal, only full; and hence that incessant, and often
Powerful, though not very graceful, action which accom­
panies his delivery.
His compar. is immense; hence that wonderful flow of
appropriate, clear, striking, and pointed comparisons and il­
lustrations which abound in all his discourses. His eaus. is
also very large; and if any one, even though prejudiced
against the man, can read his sermons, or hear him preach,
and not acknowledge that his discourses display a rich vein
6f original and powerful thought, an uncommon depth, and
strength, andforce ofargument, and a wonderful copiousness
and clearness ofillustration, the writers beg leave to place a
low estimate upon his judgment. In short, nearly all of his
intellectual faculties are uncommonly large ; and hence the
extent of his information, and his extraordinary powers of
mind, by which he has distinguished himself, not only in
the pulpit, but also at the bar. His lang., in particiilar, is
very large; and his command of words, equally great.
This, together with his very large individ., event., compar,,
and imitât., gives him his almost unrivalled talent for narra­
tion and description. His form is also very large ; and it is
a fact, that if he see a person but once, he never forgets him.
His combat, and destruct. are only full, whilst his marvel, is
moderate: see Table of Developments, p. 346.
The writers again appeal to the candid, reflecting readei;
and ask him to look at the unusually high and fully devel­
oped head, and, especially, forehead,ofthis great man—they
say, great, because they believe, that, without a great mind
and uncommon force of character, no one could force himself
into notice, and cut so bold and commanding a figure in the
world as he hasdone—andcompare them, or his phrenologi­
cal developments as given in the Table, with the peculiar
kind, as well as amount, of talent which he has displayed
throughout his publick career, and then say whether this
gentleman does not furnish as strong a proofof the truth of
phrenology, as any onefact can furnish infavour ofany one
science.
Dewey.—In order to satisfy his mind in regard to the
BY FACTS.
Digitized by Google
340 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED
merits of phrenology,the Key. Orvil Dewey, author of “ The
Old and New World,” submitted his head for examination;
and, without knowing him or his profession, he was de­
scribed by L. N. Fowler as haying immense caus., compar.,
ideal., beney., and adhes., and a general deyelopment of both
the intellectual and moral feelings, together with strong pro­
pelling power, and a very large and a very active brain. It
' was inferred, also, that his developments would be likely to
make him an orthodox clergyman, Mr. D. then stated, that
this was the onlymistake that had been made in the descrip­
tion, but added, that he had been a thorough going orthodox,
and, as such, studied for the ministry. A more finely bal­
anced head, presenting extraordinary reasoning powers, and
those faculties which indicate classical taste, and purity both
ofstyle and ofmotives, is very seldom found.
Rev’ds. Kirk, Beman, Maffet, Walter, and a host of others,
equally distinguished with those just described, who have
sought for truth by testing practical phrenology, are living
evidences of the correctness and applicability of its princi­
ples; but the authors lack space in which to describe them.
W ebb.—James Watson Webb furnishes another specimen
of the truth of phrenology, which we fancy that our oppo­
nents will find itvery difficult to gainsay. His head is very
large, its average diameter being seven inches and three-
eighths. Add to this, one of the very largest developments
offirm, anl hopewhich theauthors have ever seen, witn large
combat., approbat., and intellectual faculties generally, and
we have the elements of that energy ofcharacter, and ambi­
tion and enterprise, forwhich he is knownthroughout Chris­
tendom. Benev., adhes., and amat., are developed in a most
extraordinary degree; and we are confident, that, if his ene­
mies can testify to the strength and endurance of his opposi­
tion and hatred, his friends can also bear witness to the still
greater strength and tenacity of his attachments and benevo­
lent feelings. But his conscien. and ven. are small, and
marvel, so verysmall as toappear entirely wanting. Hence,
his known skepticism, if not opposition to religion; and he
is free to acknowledge that honour, (very large approbat,)
rather than conscientious scruples, is his rule ofaction. His
forehead is high, deep, and broad, and, withal, the various
organs are well balanced. Whether his mental manifesta­
tions correspond with his phrenological developments, or not,
the publick are lefttojudgeforthemselves: see Table, p. 347.
yC k
BY FACTS. 341
Leggett.-W. Leggett,editor ofthePlrfindealer, who will,
of course, excuse our plain dealing with him, two years since
was brought by a friend, to the office of the writer, with the
request that his strongest trait ofcharacter might be pointed
out. “Stubbornness,” was the immediate reply. After a
most hearty laugh on the part of his friend, and the interro­
gation ofMr. L., “doyou not know me,sir?” his friend asked,
if there was nothing more. “Here is very large combat.,”
was the answer. Now, if we add to these, his large self-e.
and conscien., we present a most perfect and striking coinci­
dence between his phrenological developments,and thathigh-
minded, independent, fearless, determined, and uncompromi­
sing course which this gentleman has thus far pursued.
His moral courage none will question. See p. 126.
All of his perceptive, and nearly all of his semi-perceptive,
faculties are very large; hence his prodigious talents for
collecting information; and, if to these, we add his large
compar., we arrive at his extraordinary powers of analysis
and critical acumen. But his caus. is relatively smaller;
and hence his arguments are distinguished more by acute­
ness and point, than by profundity and depth.
N o a h .-—Who that has been delighted with the descrip­
tive, the humorous,the masterlyeffusions ofthe grophick pen
of Mordecai M. Noah, can look at his boldandcommanding
forehead, and especially his very large mirth, and lang., ana
not be forcibly impressed with the striking coincidence be­
tween them and his peculiarly gifted mental manifestations?
or who can look at his extremely large development of be-*
nev.—a trait equally conspicuous in his character—and not
acknowledge that, at least, in this instance, phrenology tells
the truth?
C o b b .—Lyman Cobb, the distinguished American lexi­
cographer, possessesa rare head, and onethat presents many
striking proofs of the truth of phrenological science; but
our Jmits will allow us only to glance at a few of his lead­
ing developments.
In the first place, his head is large, and his temperament
highly favourable for activity and endurance. His domes-
tick and social organs, except amat., are all large or very
large, which, combined with his very large benev. and small
selfish faculties, impart to his affections and attachments a
purity, strength, and ardour, seldom equalled in the gentler
sex. His hope is so large as to make him quite sanguine
Digitized by L.ooQle
in his expectations; his firm, is very large;’which makes
him stable and decided when he has made up his mind, and
quite persevering in the accomplishment of his purposes;
and his combat, and destruct. are sufficient togive him great
energy of character. But the most prodigious and interest­
ing development in his head, is his conscien.: although his
firm, is very large, yet this organ rises aboveit on each side.
In a phrenological view, therefore, we might reasonably
suppose, that, in making this head, the Almighty designed
to present to the world a perfect specimen ofan honest man.
His self-e. is moderate, his approbat. large, and his cau­
tious. very large; hence his excessive diffidence, modesty,
and amiability of character; and these, combined with his
excessive conscien., make him feel too unworthy, and cause
him to allow others to encroach upon his rights and privi
leges. His very large benev., joined with his moderate ac­
quis., makes him liberal to excess, especially towards his
friends.
His reasoning faculties are of a high order\ his critical
acumen, unsurpassed. His iorm is very large; and this,
aided by his very large order and large size and local., ena­
bles him instantly to detect a typographical errour or an
inaccuracy in spelling by a mere glance of the eye—see
Table of Developments, p. 347.
Halleck.—Of all the distinguished men examined by
the authors, they have found few, if any, whose phrenologi-
*cal developments present more points of interest than those
of the nations favourite poet, Fitz Green Halleck. His
head is large, and verystrongly and most favourably develop­
ed ; but, what isyet ofmore importanceto him, is, his temper­
ament is still more favourable than his phrenological devel­
opments : and to this he doubtless owes no small share of
his undying fame.
His domestick and social organs are all large, and adhes.
very large, which, united with his very large firm, and
large conscien., render his attachments of the most ardent,
pure, sincere, and enduring kind. His very large combat
combined with his large cautious., gives him great en­
ergy, united with circumspection and prudence: and if we
add to tjiese his very large self-e., hope, ideal., and benev.,
and his large mirth., we combine the elements of a lofty,
glowing, and refined imagination,.of sanguine expectations,
of enthusiastick, and, at the same time, delicate, and most
342 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED'
yGoogle
BY FACTS. 343
sympathetic!* feelings, and of a nobleness and elevation of
soul united with independence of character, together with a
rich vein of pleasant humour, mingled with,irony.
. Hi$ intellectual faculties are nearly all large or very large,
which, united with his high self-e. and his large moral fac­
ulties and propelling powers, enable him to take very accu­
rate, very liberal, and very comprehensive views of subjects.
According to his phrenological developments, he is a close
observer, as well as deep thinker. His talents are quite va­
ried, being strong at many points. He is a natural scholar
of the first order, and, by habit, “a good and ripe one.” His
critical acumen is very great, but not superiour to his taste.
His powers ofdescription are of a high order, but not more
so than his social qualities. He is naturally a gentleman,
and is actuated bya noble ambition, unalloyed byselfish mo­
tives.
On^the 24th of April',1837, S. Kirkham and O. S. Fowler visited
the House of Refuge, the Asylum for the Blind, and the Asylum for
the Deaf and Dumb, in the city of N. Y., for the purpose of making
phrenological observations. In the firstnamed institution, the first
subject .they examined, was a lad named Kelly, in whose head cans,
ana compar. are developed in the most extraordinary manner they
have ever seen. Caus^ in particular, forms two large protuberances,
each being very nearly equal in size to that of half a goose egg. He
also has fair conscien. and perceptive faculties, without any thing else
remarkable. Accordingly, he was described as possessing, for a lad,
enormous judgment, and prodigious ability to learn, or to compre­
hend subjectsand principles, together with a decent share of honesty
and kind feeling. This description was confirmed by Mr. Hart, the
courteous superintendent of the institution, who remarked, that when
the lad came there, he could read butvery little, but that his capacity
for learning and grouping every subject presented to his mind, was so
great, that, in five months, he had ascended from the lowest class to
the highest, and had become the best scholar in the institution.
The next subject examined, was a youth of about 16, who was de­
scribed as having very large secret., acquis., firm., and self-e., large
combat, and destruct., small adhes., ven., approbat., and cautious.,
and small reasoning organs, with tolerable perceptive faculties;
and, consequently, as being a notorious liar and thief, a hardhearted,
reckless, impudent, sullen, stubborn wretch, with no kindness or
goqdness about him—as having, in short, the worst head the exami­
ners had ever seen« placed upon the shoulders of a youth, and one
that presented a perfect specimen of “ the villanously low forehead79
described by the immortal bard. To the correctness of this severe
description, Mr. H. also gave his full assent, and stated that the fellow
would steal every thing he could lay kis hands upon, and that he could
discover no good trait or redeeming quality in him,, pn account of
which, he was obliged tokeephim almostconstantly confined in a cell.
After this, the narrators examined some fifteen or twenty boys in
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
344 PHRENOLOGY PROVED AND IL L U S T R A T E D .
the teachers’ room of the same institution, and without finding one
tolerablehead amongthem. Most of them possess moderate or small
reasoning organs, benev., yen., copscien., approbat., and adhes., with
full or large perceptive faculties and firm., and large or very large
combat., destruct., acquis., and secret.—the whole exhibiting a melan­
choly picture of the phrenological developments of a set o f young
rogues.
But to this disagreeable picture^ the writers saw a most pleasing
contrast on'visiting the Asylum for the Blind. The first striking
(and very striking it is, too) general fact in proofof phrenology, that
they here observed, was, that nearly ail the girls and boys that have
been blind from infancy, present, for children and youth, enormously
large compar. and cans., and moderate perceptive organs. T his sin­
gular fact is perfectly explicable on phrenological principles, but on
no others. Not having been able to see, these youth have not been
able to exercise and cultivate the perceptive faculties; whereas, on
this very accountt they have had much more time, and have been nat­
urally led, to thin*, which would call into exercise, and consequent­
ly develop, in an extraordinary degree, the reasoning organs: and
their known intelligence, and uncommon reasoning powers, perfectly
agree with their developments. In contrast with the youth in the
House of Refuge, they also generally present large moral organs, es­
pecially conscien.,large cautioub. and domestick feelings, but moderate
or small selfish organs.
In this institution the writers also saw the blind boy M ichael Ma­
guire, so noted for his great calculating powers. His organ of ealcu.
is prodigiously developed, corresponding fully with his astonishing
computing puwers, to test which, the narrators put to him several
questions, such as requiring him to give the product of 788 multi­
plied by 788, the quotient of 894349 divided by 28, Ac., to each of
which sums, without slate or pencil, he gave a correct answer in less
than a minute.
But if these cases (and many otherswhich they have not space for)
are wonderful proofsofthe truth of phrenology,stillstrongerevidences
of its correctness, if possible, were presented at the Asylum for the
Deaf and Dumb. Here, again, in the headsof.one hundred and sixty
young misses and masters, eaus. and eompar. are generally develop­
ed in an uncommon degree; but the most astonishing of their phren­
ological developments, is their imitat. Nearly all of them have the
organ large, ana very many have it bumped up above the surrounding
organs,to6ne-halfand frequently three-fourths, thethicknessofa mans
finger. In other words, they show a development of the organ three
orfour timesas large as it appears in youth generally—an irrefutable
proofthat the organs increaseby exercise,•for these youth exercise the
faculty of imitat. to an enormous extent, and possess an ability to imi­
tate, mimick, represent, and act out, altogether astonishing.to those
who witness its display, and utterly inconceivable and incredible to
such as have not witnessed its manifestation. Since, then, we have
no reason to suppose, that these children were bom with any thing
more than an ordinary endowment of imitat., we can explain the
stubbornfacthere stated only byadmittingthatphrenologyis true. The
same fact also teaches us the immense influence which habit^ eiuon
tionlor trainingl exerts upon the character andtalents^
Digitized by L.ooQle
TABLE OP DEVELOPMENTS.
Webster.
j|
£
Ö
à
s
1
15
O
Van
Buren.
R.
M.
Johnson.
1
L.
Woodbury.
U
c
X J
É
s
Pi
1
3
V
£
S
g
à
S
>»
V
tu
S ize of the Head. 6+ 5 5+ 5+ 5 51 6 6 5 6
Degree of Activity. 4 6+ 61 6 5 4 5 5 6 5
1. Arnativeness. 5+ 4 5 6 5 6 6 5 3 5+
2. Philoprogenitive 6 6 5* 5 6 5 6 5
3. Adhesiveness. 6 6 6* 5* 6 5 5* 6 6 6
4. Inhabitiveness. 5 6 4 4 6 5 5
5. Concentrativen’s 4* 4 4 4 2* 5 5 4 5
6. Combativeness. 5+ 51 6 6 5 4 6 4 5+ 6
7. Destructiveness^ 5+ 4 5 5 4 5 51 5 51 5
8. Alimentiveness. 6 4 4 5* 5 6 6 5 5* 5
9. Acquisitiveness. 2* 2 2* 6 2 5+ 6 1
10. Secretiveness. 3* 3 2* 6 2 51 6 4 4 2*
11. Cautiousness. 5* 51 5 6* 6 6 5 4 5 4
12. Approbativeness 5 5 6 6 5 6 5 5 4
13. Self-Esteem. 6 5+ 51 6 3 6 6+ 5 5 6
14. Firmness. 6 6 6 6 5 6 61 6 6 6
15. Conscientiousn’s 5* 4 4- 5 5 2 4 5 2
16. Hope. 5* 5+ 6 5 5 6 6 6 6
17. Marvelousness. 2 2 1 1 2 1 2 1 1
18. Veneration. 5 5 4 2 2 2 5 2*
19. Benevolence. 6 6 6 5 6 5 4 6 5 6
20. Constructiven’s. 2 4 2 5 5 5
21. Ideality. 5+ 5 6 5* 4 5 5 5 6
22. Imitation. 4* 61 4 4 5 5 5 6*
23. Mirthfulness. 6 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 6 6
24. Individuality. 4 6 6 5 5 4 6 61 5 4
25. Form. 6 6 6 5 6 6 6 6 G
26. Size. 5 6 6 4 5 4 6 6 6
27. Weight. 5 4 5 4 5 5 5
28. Colour. 4 3 2 4 2
29. Order. 5 5+ 5 5 6 6 5 5 5
30. Calculation. 5* 5 5+ 5 5 5 5 5
31. Locality. 5 6 6 5 6 5 6 61 6 5
32. Eventuality. 4 6 6 4 4 3 6 61 6 5
33. Time. 2 5 4 2 5
34. Tune. 3 4 5
35. Language. 6 5 5 5 5 5 5 61 6 5
36. Causality. 6+ 5 51 51 6 6 5 4 5 6
37. Comparison. 6+ 61 6+ 5+ 6 6 6 6 6+ 6
*The authors are not fully confident in relation to the organs thus marked,
tPlus, or more, indicatingthattheorgans aresomewhatlarger. - Minus,or leea.
Digitized by Google
ì
,348 TABLE OF THE DEVELOPMENTS*
Haile
ck.
1
Capi.
Marryat.
I
!
a
s
pi
G.
Smith.
Gibbs,
pirate.
Johnson,murd.
Tardy,
pirate.
|
J
Jackson,murd.
||
2 û
«-a>
I t
*.S
i I
«
e
<
5
Aurelia
Chase.
|j
= M
Ú
■ft
»
S
j
Size of Head. 5 6 5 6 5 5 5 4 5 3 4 5
Deg. Activity. 6 4 5 4 5 4 5 4 4 3
1. Amat. 5 6 5 6 6t 6 4 6 4 4 6 6
2. Philopro. 5 6 5 6 5 5 5 6 6 1 6 6
3. Adhes. 6 6 6 6 5 4 4 5 6 5 6 6
4. Inhab. 5 5 4 5 4 5 6 5 6 1 5 5
5. Concent. 4 5 2 3 2 6 5 3 5 1 2 4
6. Combat. 6 5 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 5 5 4
7. Destruct. 4 5 5 3 6+ 6 6+ 5 3 6 6 5
8. Aliment. 3 5+ 4 3 6 5 6+ 5 4 5 5 6
9. Acquis. 4 4 3 2 6+ 6 6+ 5 4 4 5 5
10. Secret. 4 4 5 2 6+ 6 6+. 5 4 6+ 5 5
11. Cautious. 5 5 6 5 5 5 5 6 5 6+ 5 5
12. Approbat. 4 6* 6 4 5 4 2 5 6 6 6 5
13. Self-e. 6 3 3 6 6 5 5 3 6 2 6 4
14. Firm. 6 6 ei­ 6 6 6 5 5 6 4 6 5
15. Conscien. 4 4 et 5 2 4 2 3 5 6 4 4
16. Hope. 6 6 5 5 4 4 2 3 5 5 4 4
17. Marvel. 2 5 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 5 6 4
18. Ven. 4 5 5 6 4 5 1 5 4 5 6 5
19. Benev. 5 6 6t 6 4 5 4 4 5 3 3 5
20. Construct. 5* 5 2 5 3 5 4 4+ 3 3 4
21. Ideal. 6 5+ 6 5 4 4 5 3 5 4 3 3
22. Imitat. 5 6 6 5 5 3 4 3 5 4 3 2
23. Mirth. 5 6 5 4 4 3 5 3 5 4 4 2
24. Individ. 6 6 4 6 5 6 5 5 6 6 5 5
25. Form. 5 5 5 6 5 6 6 5 6 5 5 5
26. Size. 5 5+ 5 6 5 5 5 4 6 5 4 5
27. W eight. 5 5 4 5 4 4 4 3 6 5 4 4
28. Colour. 4 5 4 4 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 2
29. Order. 6 5 5 4 4 3 5 4 5 3 4 5
30. Calcu. 5 5 5 4 4 3 5 3 5 3 3 l
31. Local. 6 6 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 6 4 5
32. Event. 6 6 4 3 4 3 3 4 5 6 5 4
33. Time. 3 5 3 3 2 3 4 2 5 4 3 4
34. Tune. 2 3 3 4 4 5 2 4 6 5 4
35. L'ang. 5 6+ 5 5 4 5 5 4 3 4 3 5
36. Caus. 5 6 6 6 4 4 3 4 6 3 3 4
37. Compar. 6 6b. 6 6 5 4 4 4 5 4 4 5
Digitized by b o o Q l e
OBJECTIO NS TO PHRENOLOGY ANSW ERED. 349
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED.
T he following discussionbetween O. S. Fowler and Vin-
dex, originally appeared in the “Baltimore Chronicle,” in
the summer of 1835. At the suggestion ofthe editor ofthe
“U. S. Telegraph,” and with the hope of more effectually
removing the popular, though groundless, objections to this
useful and sublime science, it was afterwards published, with
some slight alterations and additions, in a pamphlet form—in
which form 3000 copies have been sold: and, after some
hesitation and debate, the authors have concluded to intro­
duce it into the present work without materially altering its
original plan. Their apology for this step, is, that this
method secures the interest and spirit of presenting argu­
ments nearly in theform ofdialogue,and thus ofrelieving the
reader from the dryness and tediousness of a more prosing
and didactick method. Literary merit and elegance of dic­
tion are less aimed at than perspicuity of style andforce of
argument.
For the Chronicle.
Proposalfor a Phrenological Discussion.
Mr. Barnes—As phrenology has many enthusiastick vo­
taries, and also violent opposers, and is sharing largely the
attention of all classes in the community, a properly con­
ducted discussion on this subject, may, perhaps, furnish some
very* interesting matter for your paper. If, therefore, you
feel disposed to open your columns to such a discussion, the
pole-star of which snail be t r u t h , rather than victory,
please to give the following an insertion.
There are those that see many, and very strong, reasons
for believing that phrenology is true, who yet stumble at
some seemingly insurmountable objections to it. There are
others, especially among professors ofreligion, who, fearing
that its tendency is to infidelity and fatalism, and being ap­
prehensive that its influence is immoral and irreligious,
have honest and deep-rootedprejudices against it. There are
others, again, who ridicule and scout the very idea of the
truth of such a science, as “the hallucination of a moon-
Digitized by b o o d l e
struck imagination.”# Now, if any one,or more thanone^
of either, or of all, the abovenamed classes, or of any other
class of objectors or opposers to phrenology, will statethen
objections to it, in as strong, yetconcise, terms, as theyplease,
in the columns of the Chronicle, they will be answered
through the same medium by the subscriber.
O. S. FOWLER
P. S. As for those fun-lovers, who propagate their hu­
morous anecdotes at the expense of phrenology, merelyfrom
their love of jokes—why, do let them enjoy their frolick, as
we indulge other sportive, but harmless, insects. And let
those, also, who endeavour to put down phrenology by ridi­
cule instead of argument, proceed; for they thus merely
betray the weakness of their cause, inasmuch as ridicule is
the last resort of a weak and vanquished opponent.
O. S. F.
350 DISAGREEMENT AMONG PHRENOLOGISTS.
REPLY OF VINDEX.f
“ M r. E ditor— I am willing to accept Mr. Fowler’s challenge to
anti-phrenologists, contained in yesterday’s paper, provided I can
understand his opinions upon certain points. As each phrenologist
has a system of nis own, 1 should like to understand what Mr. F.*s
system is, and for that purpose I propound the following questions:
“ Is there an organ for each faculty of the mindl
Are there as many nerves leading from the junction of the spinal
marrow and brain, to the surface of the brain, as there are phrenolo­
gical organs, or are there morel
“ Is not the scull subject to bimy excrescences, which are liable to
be mistaken for phrenological organs 1
“ Can a phrenologist tell decisively whether a man is a liar, a
thief, or a murderer, without reference to physiognomy 1
“ Is an organ increased in size by activity, and can that increase
be seen upon the cranium 1
“ When these questions are answered, I shall have some founda­
tion to commence a series of arguments against this system.
V IN D E X ”
ANSWER TO VINDEX.
Sir.*—In asserting that “each phrenologist has a system
of his own,” you assume what is not correct; for, in regard
to thefundamentalprinciples of the science, there is perfect
unanimity among phrenologists, except on some points that
are considered byallasnot yet fullysettled. Itis not true that
• Dr. Annan, before the Medical Faculty of Maryland.
♦ Vindex is notafictitious, bata real, opponent,or, rather, numberofopponent*.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
“each phrenologist has a system of his own,” any more
than it is that every physician has a medical system of his
own, every divine, a theological system, every botanist, a
botanical system, and every naturalist, a zoological system
of his own; although, it is true, that different phrenologists
have different methods of explaining the same thing, and
that some carry out certain points farther than others, be­
cause they have more extensively investigated them. In
the naming and numbering of some of the organs, and in
their analysis of some of the faculties, phrenologists do
somewhat differ; but in the arrangement and application of
facts, and in their viewsof thefundamental principlesofthe
science, there is, at the present time, greater unanimity
among them than among the teachers ofany other doctrines
or science within my knowledge.
Instead, then, of there having been a revolution in the
phrenological system, there has beenonlysome little change
in its nomenclature. But what science has not undergone
even greater changes than this%
Yours, &c. O. S. FOWLER
REPLY OF VINDEX.
“My assertion that each phrenologist has a system of his own, is
founded in fact. In Spurzheim’s works on phrenology and physiog­
nomy, he distinctly admits, that there was a difference of opinion be­
tween Dr. Gall and himself on certain material points, which led to
their separation. In Combe’s Phrenology, we find several pages ta­
ken up in opposition to Spurzheim, on the organ of Inhabitiveness,
and on other points, which Mr. F. can ascertain by perusing these
works. The only fundamental principle phrenologists agree upon
with great unanimity, is, that the brain is the seat of feeling and of
thought—a principle which few of their opponents will dispute.
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED. 351
ANSWER TO VINDEX.
You assert, that “between Combe and Spurzheim there
are differences on other points than that of the organ of In­
habitveness.” Combe himself says, “ To the best of mv
knowledge, there is no material point of doctrine on which
Spurzheim and I differ, except on the organ of Inhabitive­
ness (Preface to Combe’s System of Phrenology.) Now,
whether Mr. Combe or you are right, I leave tothedecision
of those who peruse the works of Combe and Spurzheim.
The probability is, that Mr. Combe knows as much about
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
>this matter, at least, asyourself, and that he would not know­
ingly misrepresent it, especially when such a misrepresenta­
tion could so easily be detected.
You also say, that “the only fundamental principle upon
which phrenologists agree, is, that the brain is the seat of
thought and of feeling—a principle which few of their op­
ponents will dispute.” Now, sir, I do not say that your asser­
tion is false, but simply ask, if all phrenologists do notagree
in maintaining, and that with “ great unanimity,” not only
that the brain is the organ ofthe mind,but also that the mind
is a plurality offaculties—that each faculty is exercised, not
by meansofthe wholebrain, but by means ofa particular por­
tion of it—that the vigorous exercise ofany ofthese faculties,
causesacorrespondingexerciseofitsparticularorgan,andthat
this exercise of the organs causes their enlargement—that
the size ofthese organs is reciprocally ‘as the power oftheir
faculties—that, consequently, the traits ofcharacter, and pe­
culiarities oftalents, are always bothindicated, and accompa­
nied by, certain protuberances ofthe brain, and, ofcourse, of
the scull,so that the various qualities of intellect and feeling
can be discovered by the size and shape of the head? And
are not these principles asfundamental as the one you men­
tion? If you answer this.question in the affirmative, you
will contradict yourself; if in the negative, the concur­
ring testimony of all phrenologists, and also of all who
are acquainted with the facts in the case, will contradict
you.
It is true, that, as this science is advancing with unparal­
leled rapidity, some suppose that they have made improve­
ments, which the limited observation of othersdoes notallow
them either to admit or to deny. This remark will explain
mostofthe points of difference between Gall and Spurzheim,
but does not show the existence of any opposition of views.
Gall originated the science, whilst Spurzheim improved and
systematized it. For example; Dr. Gall observed that a
certain portionofthe head wasverylarge in inveteratethieves,
and, as was very natural, named itthe organ of Theft. Dr.
Spurzheim discovered that two organs were located in this
’ region, one of which gave a disposition to hoard up, and the
other, to secrete, and accordingly named them acquis, and
secret. In adroit thieves, both organs are found, and hence
the imperfect observation of Dr. Gall. This discrepance was
occasioned by a new discovery, and does not at all invali
352 DISAGREEMENT AMONG PHRENOLOGISTS.
Digitized by L.ooQle
date the truth of phrenology. The same is true of every
material difference with which I am acquainted between the
two authors, except that about the analysis and naming of
theorgans. Gall discovered the organs when in excess,and,
consequently, named them from the phenomena displayed in
their abuse; and, as his chief attention was directed to the
discovery ofthe organs, and the observation of facts,of course
he paid but little attention to their analysis. Gall having
made hisdiscoveries, and collected a great abundance of ma­
terials in supportofthem, and thus laid a deepand imperish­
able foundation for the most beautiful and stupendous of the
sciences, Spurzheim enters the field, makes a few valuable
discoveries, and, by his extraordinary powers of discrimina­
tion, analyzes the faculties, and erects a magnificent super­
structure, which is destined tobethe admiration ofall coming
ages, as the richest boon ever yet bequeathed by man to his
fellow-men. In doing this, it was necessary to change the
names of some of the organs. To this, Gall, as was natu­
ral, at first objected, but gradually yielded point after point,
till, at his death, there was much less disagreement between
these two great men than there had formerly been.
To my question, “ Do I understand you to urge this as
an objection against phrenology?” you wiselymake no reply;
for, had you answered in the negative, I should have re-
E
lied, then why adduce it?—if in the affirmative, I should
ave replied, if your argument proves any thing, it proves
too much; for it equally proves that the sciences of chemis­
try, of botany, of mineralogy, of mechanicks, of electricity,
of intellectual and moral philosophy, and even of mathe-
maticks and astronomy, are all untrue: for, to this day, the
ablest mathematicians contend about the question, whetner or
not the circlecanbecompletelysquared, notwithstanding this
is one of the oldest, and one of the demonstrative, sciences.
But does this prove, that the sublime principlesofastronomy
are untrue, or that two and two do not make four? Just as
much as a disagreement among phrenologists disproves
phrenology. Between Franklin and Du Fay, there was a
fundamental difference about electricity—the latter main­
taining that there were two electrick fluids; theformerthat
there was but one; but does this prove that such a thing as
an electrick fluid does not exist, or even that its supposed
laws are merely “the hallucination of a moon-struck imag­
ination?”
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED. 353
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
354 ANATOMY OF THE BRAIN.
Touching this point, I will here introduce an extract from
a letter to Dr. Maxwell MeDowall, of Baltimore, in reply
to an article published in the May number of the Baltimore
Literary and Religious Magazine, not merelybecause I con­
sider it in point, but because I have strong reasons tpbelieve,
thatthissame Dr.MeDowall wasoweofthe authorsofVindex.
“You urge the disagreement among phrenologists as
your most weighty objection against its doctrines. Suppose,
then, that the objection were a hundred-fold stronger than it
really is, and you, sir, are the very last person who ought to
urge it against phrenology, since it bears with a thousand­
fold more force against the very science you teach and prac­
tise. Who does not know, not only that there are several
conflicting systems ofmedical science, but, also, that scarcely
any two individuals can agree, either as to the nature or the
remedy of many diseases % ‘First cast the be;am out of
your own eye,’ and then you may attempt to ‘cast the mote
out of your brother’s eye.’ Many of the differences atpong
physicians are fundamental, and heaven-wide; aqd yet, is
there no truth at all in any part of the healing art ? But,
upon the ground you take, there is none at all. If this ar­
gument is a sound one, by it the truth of every thing can
be disproved, and especially every thing pertaining to reli­
gion: for different men take different views of almost every
popular subject of belief.”
THE ANATOMY OF THE BRAIN.
In reply to your question, “Are there as many nerves
leading from.the junction of the spinal marrow and the
brain, to the surface of the brain, as there are phrenological
organs, or are there moreV1 I will simply observe, that, to
my knowledge, no such nerves have been discovered; yet,
for all that, they may exist. But this is by no means a ma­
terial point, for we never rely upon the dissection of an or­
gan for the discovery, or even the proof of its functions. ]
shall tharefore discuss the anatomy of the brain no farther
than it is necessary for me todo in replying to the objection*
that may be fairly brought against phrenology upon this
ground. Yours, &c. O. S. FOWLER.-
“ Mr. F. is more willing to give up the consideration of the anato­
myof the brain, than I am. As our readers are practical men, they
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED. 355
can easily learn what has been observed by practical anatomists. If
there is any theory in considering the subject, it is on the part of Mr.
F., who argues that the fact of none of the nerves of the different or­
gans having, to his knowledge, been discovered, is noproof thatsuch
nerves do not exist. Now, when an affirmative is stated, it must be
proved byfacts, otherwise it is only a theory. It is notincumbent on
us to prove that such nerves do not exist—thatthey have not been
discovered is sufficient proof of that fact. We all know that the
nerves of the organs of seeing, hearing, smelling, &c., have been
discovered, and their course has been traced to various portions of
the brain.
“ It is well known that nerves have been discovered of the organs
of seeing, hearing, smelling, &c. These are corporeal organs. Mr.
F. calls all the organs, as laid down byphrenology, corporeal organs.
Now, if that be true, why have not nerves been discovered leading
from each organ to the base of the brain ? Mr. F., in his second
toumber, says—1No such nerves have, to my knowledge, yet been
discovered.’ Why have they not been discovered? Would not such
a discovery prove the fundamental principles of phrenology better
than mere conjecture ? Are the nerves so small as not to be discov­
ered by a microscope ? They must be small indeed, for Lyonet has
detected not less than four thousand and sixty-one nerves in the mere
larve orcaterpillar ofa cossus, or insect approaching to a butterfly.
VINDEX.”
You charge me with assuming the existenceof the nerves
ofthe organs, fromtheir non-discovery—with arguing on that
assumption,and with calling on you todisprove it. Now, sir,
I neither assume nor deny their existence, nor do I predicate
any argument whatever upon it. I simply say, thatthe point
is not material, and assign the reason. Your argument is
this: no such nerves have been discovered; therefore, no
such nerves exist—consequently, phrenology is not true.
This syllogism lacks foundation. You must first prove,
that these nerves are a sine qua non—an indispensable requi­
site to the truth of phrenology. You assume this: I deny
it. Unfll you proveihis point, your whole argument has not
the weight ofa feather; for it is an essential one. After you
have proved it, (which you will find a very difficult task,)
you will be obliged to prove that the non-discovery of such
organs; establishes their non-existence ; which you certainly
cannot do. They may exist, and yet not be discoverable;
notfromtheirsmallness, butfromthe nature oftheir substance
and texture. The “nerves ofthe larve,” which you mention,
are nerves of motion; and, as the function of these nerves
differsjo widelyfromthe function ofthe nervesof the organs,
(on supposition that suchnerves exist,) it is prima facie evi­
dence, that their nature and texture as widely differ. Their
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
356 ANATOMY OF TH E BRAIN.
discovery, then, may be, and might be expected to he, alto­
gether impossible by human instrumentality, inasmuch as
their function is sosubtle.
You plainly intimate, that I am afraid to discuss theanat­
omy ofthe brain—that phrenology is lame here—that I wish
to cover this lameness under the plea that our readers will
take little interest in the discussion of its theories. In this,
sir, you are greatly mistaken. Do I notstatethat I am ready
••toanswerany objectionswhich may beurged against phre­
nology on anatomical principles ?” Why then charge me
with being “more willing to give up the anatomy of the
brain than yourself?” No, sir, so farfrom being1lame here,
phrendlogy ismost athome in this field, and perfectlyinvulne­
rable; and, sofar from wishing to evade this point, I am even
anxiousto take it up. Stateyour anatomical objections,then,
and see if I leave them unanswered. It is not for me to
prove that anatomy does not contradict phrenology, but for
you to prove that it does. When you do this, you will do
what no man has yet done. But I mistake, or yours will
be emphatically a Herculean task, if you undertake to point
out any discrepance between the anatomy of the brain and
phrenology. Almost every expert anatomist adopts that
mode of dissecting the brain which was discovered by the
discoverers of phrenology, and along with it. Medical
schools and medical authors are universally adopting the
phrenological anatomy of the brain; and the best dissec­
tions of thebrain, are those that proceed upon phrenological
principles.
I wasrecently informed by Dr. Monkur, an anatomical dis­
sector in the Washington Medical College ofMaryland, that
phrenology had thrown more light on the anatomy of the
brain, than all other discoveries. Horner; a standard medi­
cal author, on the 76th page of his anatomy, says, “Theirs
(Drs. Gall and Spurzheim’s) is a veryimproved and simpli­
fied method ofstudying the anatomy ofthe brain, and of the
nervous system.” “It is an obvious matter offact, apd, for
the most part, as susceptible ofdemonstration as the contents
of thethorax.” The wholeworld have long sincebeen chal­
lenged to show the least contradiction between anatomy and
phrenology. The ablest anatomists of Christendom have tri­
ed it, and failed. If you try it, sir, you will also fail. T he
fact is, that the science of anatomy is founded in nature—
phrenology is also founded in nature; and, therefore, each
Digitized by L.ooQle
will support the other. This is evident from the feet, that
the only clear and rational anatomy of the brain, is that
which was discovered by phrenologists, by means ofphrenol­
ogy, and along with it, thereby proving that they are both
the twin sisters oftruth and nature. If, then, youattemptto
disprove phrenology by anatomy, you will only spit in the
wind, and, ofcourse, in your own face.
True, you say, unfortunately for your argument, “ It is
known thatthe nerves of the organs ofseeing, hearing, smell­
ing, &c., have been discovered,and that their cóurse has been
traced to various parts ofthe brain.” It is also known that
these nerves havebeen traced e x c l u s iv e l y (am I not right?)
to the b a s e -of the brain—the very part allotted by phrenol­
ogy to those functions which are common to men and ani­
mals. This part of the brain, as well as these nerves, is
common to men and animals. The base of the brain, or
that part to which these nerves have been traced, isthe same
part m which phrenology has discovered the organs of the
animal functions in man, and comprehends the whole ofthe
animal brain. The organs of the sentiments peculiar to
man, together with the reasoning organs, are chiefly want­
ing in the animal brain, but occupy a large portion of the
human brain. To this portion of the human brain, none of
the nerves of the animal functions have been traced. This
fact, so far from disproving phrenology, is wholly inexplica­
ble on any other than phrenological principles, and goes far
toestablish these principles. Unless phrenology is true, why
is it that the animal portion of the brain, in animals, accord­
ing to phrenology, is alone developed? Unless phrenology
is true, why is it that the nerves ofthe animal functions ori­
ginate inthe animal portion ofthe brain ? Unless phrenol­
ogy is true, why is it that, in the part ofthe human brain al­
lotted by phrenology to the moral and reasoning organs,
where such nerves are not only not necessary, but would be
out of place, no such nerves are to be found? I put these _
questions home to you, and ask how they can be satisfactori­
ly answered, only by admitting that between anatomy and
phrenology there exists a striking coincidence. The only
statement, then, which you have made respecting the anat-
tomy of the brain, bears strongly, if not conclusively,
against you, and as conclusively in favour of phrenology.
So it is with every anatomical argument which anti-phreno*
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED. 357
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
358 EXCRESCENCES.
logical anatomists have yet adduced, or, I venture to say,
can adduce.
EXCRESCENCES.
In answer to your third question, 41whether the scull is
not liable to bony excrescences which may be mistaken for
phrenological organs,” I will simply remark, that, although
the scull does present such excrescences as the mastoid pro­
cesses, the occipital spine, and, perhaps, some others, yet,
since we know their location and their usual form, and since
they seldom coverthe whole ofany organ, an expert phrenol­
ogist is no more liable to mistake these for phrenological
organs, than an equally expert physician is to mistake a dis­
ordered stomach for an affection ofthe liver. A quack may
mistake in both cases, vet there is no necessity for mistaking
in either,
REPLY OF VINDEX.
41The writer of this hasseen bony excrescences in partsof the scull,
where 4cautious.,*4firm.,’ 4hope,’ and 4ideal.,* are located. In some
cases there were cavities of three-quarters of an inch, and as broad
as any phrenological organ. Yet no,phrenologist, however experl,
could have discovered that they were mere excrescences.
V IN D EX .”
In common with most other anti-phrenologists, you carp
a great deal about the 4
4bony excrescences,” just as though,
because the scull is liable toan occasional excrescence, there
could be no truth in the fundamental principles of phrenolo­
gy. Suppose the scull were wholly covered with these ex­
crescences,the phrenological organs might exist, and perform
their functions, justas well with, as without, them. I£ then,
your argument were stronger by a hundred-fold than it is, it
wrould not at all invalidate the truth of the principles of
phrenology: and this is the point we are now discussing.
On the supposition that such excrescences were numerous,
they would, to be sure, throw in the way of correct phre­
nological observations, a difficulty proportionate to their
size and number: and this is the most your argument can
claim.
But, so for from these excrescences being numerous, ex­
cept the regular processes, which are well known, scarcely
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
MEMORY. 359
oneoccurson anaverage,uponadozenheads, or in nearly450
organs, (there being 38 organs on each side of the head.)
And even when an excrescence does occur, it is, at least, ten
chancestoone,ifitcoversthewholeofoneorgan,but generally
a part of several; and a hundred more chances toone, if its
shape correspondsexactlywith thatof the organscovered,and
then still another hundred, if it is just as large. Sothat the
necessary chance of errour is as one to 45,000,000. And
suppose this difficulty to be a thousand times greater than
my estimate, the necessary chance for mistaking an excres­
cence for an organ, is as forty-five thousand to one. And
even then, it is hardly supposable that two excrescences
should occur on precisely opposite sides of the same head,so
that one side would correct the other. Why, then, should I
waste words on sodiminutive an argument ?
The same general remarks will apply to the “cavities,”
onlv we must allow for the fact, that theseare still more easi­
ly detected. In my publick examinations inthis city, I have
detectedthree cavities, occasioned byblowsuponthe head; in
New York, at least, two; in Albany and Troy, several; one
in Brattleboro*, Yt.; and a numbef in other places : and in
all my examinations, I know of but one mistake occasioned
by cavities, and that was inthis city; but by a subsequent ex­
amination, the errour was at once corrected.
That these excrescences occasionally throw some difficul­
ty in the way, especially ofthe unpractised phrenologist, I
readily admit; but their shape is so irregular, and their
knotty appearance differs so widely from the regular swell
of the phrenological organs, that the phrenologist must be
comparatively a tyro in observation, whatever he may be in
theory, who mistakes the one for the other. The difficulty
seems to be far greater in theory than it really is in prac­
tice, especially to those who look at it through the magni-
fying glass of prejudice.—The frontal sinuses will be subse­
quently considered.
I will here take the liberty ofintroducing acouple of par­
agraphs from a publickdiscussionwhichtook place inWash­
ington, D. C., with Dr. Joseph M. Munding, of that city.
“ You affirm, sir, that ‘the bumps may be caused as well
by blows from without, as by the actual shape of the brain,*
and say that I ‘never make any difference between these
two kinds of protuberances.* This statement, sir, allow me
to say, is entirely erroneous, for I can, and do,at once detect
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
360 REPLY TO OBJECTIONS.
the difference. At the Baptist Church, the citizens of W.
heard me state unhesitatingly, that a certain head which was
examined, had sustained a severe injury from a blow; and
also heard, bythe gentleman examined, a confirmation of my
decision.
“ Besides, sir, you perhaps need be reminded, that blows
upon the head generally produce cavities instead of bumps.
By whatmechanipal processa breaddngin of the scull causes
a ‘bump' I am really at a loss to divine. Blows generally
produce irregular cavities, whilst the phrenological organs
are regular swells ofa given shape, and alike in both hemi­
spheres of the brain; and yet you say, that ‘I ascribe to each
of them the same influence upon the mind.’ This statement
of yours, in common with many others, betrays gross igno­
rance ofthe whole subject ofdebate. And yet you say, that
this point is so plain, and so clear against me, (that it re­
quires no farther argument.* **
MEMORY.
You ask, sir, “whether there is an organ for each facul­
ty of the mind.** 1 answer, yes, so far as these faculties
have, as yet, been discovered. You then say, as “ Mr. F.
admits, that there is an organ for each faculty of the mind,
will he state where the faculty of memory is located, and
what name phrenologists have given to itV*
Pray, sir, what am I to understand by the faculty of mem­
ory ? I deny that the mental phenomena called memory,
are performed by a single faculty of the mind. There are
almost as many different kinds of memory as there are dif­
ferent minds, and these kinds of memorydifferas much from
each other as the head does from the foot—as much as rea­
son does from feeling. What, then, do you mean by the term
memory ?—Memory of w h a t ?—of faces, places, ideas, sto­
ries, friends, enemies, size, words?—memory of w h a t %
Just describe the kind of memory which is the subject of
your inquiry, and I will describe its location and its name.
Do you not see, sir, that you have put your question too
soon? You should havefirst demonstrated, that the phenom­
ena of memory are the product of adistinct mental faculty,
and then have demanded the phrenological name and loca­
tion ofthat faculty.
Memory is simply the reminiscence of the operations
Digitized by v^ooole
MEMORY.
of the faculties. One faculty has to do with words, an­
other with ideas and principles, a third with facts, &c.;
and each faculty recollects those things with which it
has to do. I£ then, that faculty which has to do with prin­
ciples, (caus.,) is stronger in that one than that which hás to
io with incidents, {event.,) he will remember principles as
much better than he does facts, as his caus. is stronger than
his event.: and so of every other faculty.
I repeat—describe the kind of memory you mean, and I
will point out to you its local habitation and its name; or
bring me a child, and I will tell you what kinds of memory
it possesses, and where the different kinds are located. But
ask me, “where (in the head) the faculty of memory is loca­
ted,’’ and I must answer you as the yankee answered the
question, where he was born: “ why,” saidhe, “at Barnstable
Bay, Cape Cod, and all along shore.” Memoryofsomething
is located, at least, all over the forehead. Understand me to
introduce the Yankee answer, not because I wish to ridicule
you, or your question; for it is puttomedaily, and isproper
enough—but because it istoo indefinitetoadmit ofa definite
reply. The same is true of every other faculty of every
other system of mental philosophy: and this very point
shows both the weakness and the obscurity of all other sys­
tems of mental philosophy, but the inimitable beauty, clear­
ness, and simplicity of phrenology.
Suppose, for example, I should ffo with you into the fam­
ily with which you are most familiar, and ask you, “Has
that child a goodmemory?” You answer, “yes—no child
bas a better one.” I say to the mother, uCan this child re­
member the countenances and dress of those that he saw at
church?” 4<No, sir, but he can remember the whole ofthe
sermon.” I ask you, if the secotfd has a good memory. You
say, “ no.” I ask the mother, if she cannot recollect, with re­
markable accuracy, the faces and dress of those she saw at
meeting. “Yes,” saysthe mother, Mbutshecannot recollect
a wordofthe sermon.” Now, sir, you were both right, and
also wrong, in both your answers. A third child can re­
member only the substance ofthe sermon * a fourth, neither
the substance of the sermon, nor the words of which it was
composed, nor the dressof thosethat werethere, butcan sing,
with perfect accuracy, all the tunes she heard there, andwill
never forget them. But, if you ask me, whether this or
that child has a ^ood memory, I will tell you in every vnr
961
Digitized by Google
K E P L Y TO O B JE C T IO N
stance, and with unerring c e r t a i n t y , what k in d o f m em *
ry the child possesses; and also deseribe everyother striking
faculty of the child. If, instead of my assertion, yon wish
ocular demonstration, choose your time, place, children
witnesses, scribe,&c.rwith the understanding that the result
is to be published, and I will attend. Let the true character
ofthechildren be previously written out,andtheir physiogno­
my covered. Invite Dr. Annan, and let us see whether phre­
nology is Hthe hallucinationofa moon-struck imagination,”
or whetherit is a true science. Since I appeal to such a test,
my declaration must be admitted until it is disproved.
According to the system, that one feculty has to do with
thoughts, another with events, another with colours, and so
forth, it is an a priori inference, that that faculty which has
to do with thoughts, should remember thoughts; that that
which has to do with events, should remember events, and so
on. But, touching this point, one fact is betterthan a thou­
sand syllogisms. Therefore, until you accept my challenge
of »n appeal to a practical test, I shall drop the subject.
Again, you argue that, “ If phrenology can come no
nearer a man’s character than to say, he is either avaricious
or a thief,{hesystem is ofno value at all.” In reply, I would
ask, what is an avaricious feeling but a desire for property,
and what is a thievish disposition but a desire for property ?
The one is a desire which expresses itself in one manner,
and the other, the same desire, expressed in another manner;
but the two can hardly be considered as separate affections
ofthe mind. Now, phrenologycantell how strong a man’s
love ofproperty is : and-is this of no value? Phrenology
goes more deeply into the subject than to look at m ere acts.
It goes into the secret recesses of the soul, and measures the
depth and strength of the Very springs of human thought
and feeling. It discoversand analyzes the relative strength
and power c.fthe faculties themselves—of the veryfountains
ofemotion and action. This isthe peculiar prerogative—the
inimitable excellence and beautyof phrenology.
You object to the phenomena of the *' phrenological or­
gans acting in companies,” as if it were a defect in our sys­
tem. Who walks without using, at fhe same time, his feet,
legs, toes, eyes, lungs, and even hands—without calling into
action almost every organ and nerve belonging tothe body?
Innumerable instances might be adduced ofa like character.
Indeed, we perform scarcely an act of our lives without the
A M
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OBJECTIONS ANSWERED. 363
co-opeTation of several organs. Is it strange, then, that the
phrenological organs should 4
4actincompanies ?” It would
be strange, passing strange, and contrary to the whole
analogy of nature, if these »organs did not 4
4act in com­
panies.”
On the supposition that the seemingly opposite organs of
destruct. and benev. are equally large, you ask, which will
predominate? I answer, the one which circumstances excite
the most for the time being. When there is nothing to ex­
cite the former, and much toexcite the latter, kindness isthe
result; but, when injustice or personal abuse excites destruct.,
severity, and sometimes rage, are the consequences. Thus
phrenology alone will explain the character of those who
are generally kind, obliging, sympathetick, &c., but who,
when thoroughly provoked, are terrible—are truly fiend­
like, and entirely beside themselves. It is thus that phre­
nology, and phrenology alone, analyzes,%
most perfectly and
beautifully, those characteristicks and mental phenomena
which can be explained in no other way—which no other
system of mental philosophy can reach.
You doubt whether I can 4
4describe the same character
twice alike.” Try me. I propose this evening toexamine,
publickly, a number of heads. I give you the privilege of
oroducing any person you please, whose head I have already
examined, and of allowing him to say before the audience,
whether the two descriptions ofcharacter agree.*
As will be seen by a reference to the facts stated in the
preceding pages, I nave been tested, in this way, hundreds
of times, and I always give the samedescriptionof character,
the second time, that I do at first, and, in general, nearly the
same numbers. While reading your last, a gentleman
(whose name I can give) entered my office, whom I had
examined three weeks previous. I gave him a new chartj
and, on dividing the sum total of the numbers in the two
charts, by the total difference, this difference was only as
one to fifty. A gentleman of Baltimore lost his chart, and,
after giving him the second, he declared, in the presence of
a distinguished author of this city, that every number of the
*Atthe meeting mentioned, thewriterwas thoroughly tried, bothwith and with*
out his eyes covered; and in the hundreds of organs that he pronounced upon,
there was no material difference except in one instance. In every case but two,
the size of the organs was described alike, was the same, or did not differ over
two-twentieths from that previously given.
Digitized by L.ooQle
364 AGREEMENT IN EXAMINATIONS.
second chart agreed with every number of thefirsts without
one slight exception. The difference between them was as
1to 125. A Mr. S. Smith, merchant in Troy, staked the
price ofan examination, that the difference between the first
and second examinations, would be as one to eight. It was
as 1to 85. All thenumbers, except five, were alike in both
«harts. How much more accurately than this, is surveying
doneby mathematical instruments?
Now, allow me to try your 44expertness.” Take, ifyon
please, promiscuously from a stream, 35 pebbles, and give
me, by the senses of seeing and feeling, their relative size,
in a scale of numbers from 1to 20. Dothe same one hour
afterwards, or three months afterwards, (as was the casein
the instance you cite against me,) and if your numbers do
not differ ten times as much as mine did, I will acknowl­
edge—not that phrenology is nottrue, but, simply, (and this
is all you can asti,) that I am hot ten times as 44expert” as
you are. Will youtry it, or, without trying it, acknowledge
that your argument is weak, nay, puerile%
As the mere numbering ofthe relative size of the oTgans
is no necessary part of phrenology, I may give two descrip­
tions of character, both perfect, and precisely alike, and y*t
not put down precisely the same numbers in both cases, ft
is much easier to describe thecharacter than to transferthese
numbers accurately to the chart; yet the chart is very usefiil
for the purpose of preserving, asnearly as maybe, the result
of the description given.
But the proper question at issue, is, not whether my skill
in judging ofsize is somarvellously great that I can, at one
time, mark off, in a scale of from 1to 20,the relative size
of 38 organs, and at another time, or at four,six, or ten other
times, mark offthe relative size ofthe same 38 organs with­
out any variation in any ofthe numbers, but whether, sole
ly by the application of phrenological principles, I can, at
one time, accurately describe the character and talents ofan
individual, and at another time, or at four, six, or ten other
times, solely by the application of the same principles, de
scribe the character of the same individual with eq u a l ace*
racy, or without any material variation from the first de­
scription given: and in this latter form, I am prepared to
meet the question in the affirmative. But suppose that I
should sometimes vary in my descriptions ofthe same char­
acter. Would this wholly disprove phrenology, or merely
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
OBJECTIONS ANSWERED. 365
trove, that, as a practical phrenologist, I am not infallible,
>ut sometimes more 44expert” and accurate than at others%
INCREASE OF THE ORGANS BY EXERCISE.
Again you ask, 44Is an organ increased in size oy con­
stant activity, and can that increase he observed by an exami­
nation of heads?” To both parts of this question I answer
in the affirmative j and this increase can be measured by in­
struments, or seen on busts taken at different periods of life.
And this theory is in perfect accordance with the whole pro­
cess of nature, and with the fundamental principles of phys-
siology.
You ask, if I “mean that the mental organs are corpo­
real V1 The brain is certainly a corporeal organ. Corpo­
real means, belonging to the body. The brain belongs to
the body, and is therefore a corporeal organ, and, of course,
governed by the same laws of increase and decrease that
govern other corporeal organs. It is also the mental organ,
or the organ ofthe mind. You say, “it is not true that the
violent action of the body, increases the action ofthe mind—
and that exercise does not increase, nor inactivity diminish,
the size of the veins and arteries.” I say it istrue, and ap­
peal both to the personal experience, and to the observation,
of every reader, whether, when his body is vigorous and ac­
tive, his mind is not proportionally so; and whether, when
his body is sluggish or drowsy, his mind also is not equally
so; and whether the shaking of a drowsy child does not
quicken his mental, as well as corporeal, action? Never
give a child any exercise, and see how fast his veins and ar­
teries will grow. You say, 44the muscles ofa blacksmith’s
arm are first hardened, ana then increased.” I reply, that
the two processes of hardening and increasing, are simulta­
neous. You say, that44comparisons drawn from material
objects, 4° not apply to the immaterial mind.” I answer,
that the brain, about which we are arguing, is- just as much
material as is the blacksmith’s arm, and is governed by the
same laws, one of which is, that its exercise causes its in­
crease. It is for you to prove either thatthe powerful action
of the mind does nqt produce a corresponding action of its
corporeal organ, the brain, or else that exercise, while it in­
creases the size of every other organ ofthe body* does not
Digitized by L.ooQle
366 INCREASE OF THE ORGANS-
increase the size of the brain. All analogy is point blank
against you, and in my favour.
You say, “ that a mental organ is increased in size by constant ac­
tivity, ana that this increase can be observed by examination, requires
to be proved. Assertion alone is not sufficient. There is not a sin­
gle case recorded by phrenologists, of a head’s having undergone any
change so as to prove that one organ has increased or diminished u
size, compared with the other organs in the same head. It is now
forty years since Gall first unfolded his theory to the world ; and if
any change had taken place in the relative size of the organs, we
should have been informed of it long before ihis.”
It is a universai principle of nature, that every “ organ
is increased in size by constant activity,” and the increase
of the brain can be determined just as well as that of any
other corporeal organ. If “ assertion alone is not suffi­
cient,” analogy and physical demonstration are ¿¿//-sufficient.
Your “ assertion alone is not sufficient” against suck evi­
dence. It has been observed by hatters, that literary men
generally require larger hats than labouring men, even
though their bodies are smaller. The reason of this differ­
ence is obvious. By exercisingtheir intellects, and not pro­
portionally their bodies, educated men, of necessity, exercise
their brains, and thus cause them to grow proportionally
faster than their bodies; while the opposite holds true with
regard to working men: and without a variation in nature’s
laws, the fact could not be otherwise.
Your gratuitous assertion, that “phrenologists have never
recordeda case ofa singleorgan’s having increased or dimin­
ished in size when compared with the other organs in the
same head, although they have had the observation of forty
years,” is contradicted by facts. While lecturing in Boston,
Dr. Spurzheim was accustomed to exhibit two casts of the
same head, the first of which was taken when the individual
was of mature age, but beforehe had devoted much attention
to a mechanical occupation; the other, twenty years after­
wards, at which time the same individual, by hismechanical
inventions and skill, had become noted throughout Europe
as one ofthe greatest machinists ofthe age.
Deville of London, has a multitude of casts, several of
which were taken from the same headat different periods of
life, and when the pursuits of these individuals required the
exercise ofdifferent classes of faculties, which show a com­
parative increase ofthe facultiesexercised, and a decreaseof
Digitized by b o o g i e
the faculties notexercised. A gentleman in England had a
cast of his head taken annually for five successive years.
Meanwhile hestimulated someofthe phrenological faculties,
and avoided exercising others. Every successive cast show­
ed an increase ofthose organs that were exercised, and a de­
crease of those that were restrained. The first and last
casts differed from each other so much, that they would
hardly have been recognised as casts of the same head. I
had this fact from a gentleman (an editor) who had examin­
ed the busts alluded to. Many more examples might be
quoted; and yet you say, that “ pnrenologists have never re­
corded a case of the kind.” If you have not read all the
phrenological works, why do you make this assertion? If
you have, why misrepresent them in this manner % This
provesthat yon knowcomparatively nothing of the doctrines
you oppose. Ignorance ofthis subject is, however, common
to ail anti-phrenologists.
Several instances, both of increase and decrease, have
fallen under my own observation. While examining the
bead of a gentleman in Philadelphia, I noticed that the or­
gans on one side of it, were larger than those on the other.
He then stated that, for two years, that side of the head on
which the organs were smaller, had not perspired, while the
other had perspired very freely. This provesthat the organs
on that side which had not perspired, had not been active,
and that those ofthe other, had been. It follows,then, either
that the smaller organs had become so in consequence of
their inactivity, or else, that in consequence oftheir activity,
the larger ones had outgrown them. Either supposition
proves that a mental organ is increased by constant activity,
and decreased by inaction. Dr. 'Spurzheim examined the
head of a distinguished female, whose life had been chief­
ly occupied with books, and severe application to the ab­
stract sciences. Her phrenological organs of causal., eom-
par., mirth., ideal., lang., and event., were large, and her ob­
serving organs, small. In order to exercise a new class of
faculties, the organs of which are located about the eye, she
was advised to leave her abstract studies, and take up bota­
ny, mineralogy, phrenology, dfcc. This she accordingly did
with all her might, and in three months there wasa percepti­
ble increase of the organs thus exercised.
I am also perfectly ecrtain, that since I commenced the
practice of phrenology, several of my own organs which
INCREASE OF THE ORQANS BY EXERCISE. 367
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
368 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
have thereby been called into constant activity, have very
perceptibly increased, while others that are now exercised
comparatively less than before, are proportionally smaller.
For example; the organ of size, which, when I commenced
the practice of phrenology, I observed to be on a par with
the other perceptive organs, and which, since that time, has
been called into almost constant activity, now protrudes far
above all the others in the arch ofthe eye.
Upon the return of my brother, L. N. Fowler, from a
phrenological tour of eighteen months inthe west and south,
doring which time he was almost constantly employed in
examining heads, which, ofcourse, required the equally con­
stant exercise of his organs of size, mdivid., form, focal.,
eveht., compar., and lang., I observed that these organs, es­
pecially size, compar., and lang., had very much increased.
In the heads of sailors who have long followed the seas,
the organs of form, weight, and local., are generally very
large. Size and orderarealso commonly found very large;
but the organ of weight, in particular, is so uniformly de­
veloped to a very great extent, that, from this circumstance
alone, especially when taken in conjunction with form and
local., experienced seafaring men can generally be selected
from others. In menofthisdescription, among the hundreds
I have examined, I have never seen one instance of a defi­
ciency of these organs. Now, their occupation calls these
organs into almost constant exercise; and is it irrational to
suppose, that this exercise causes in them this much larger
development ofthese organsthan is found in men in general,
who exercise them less?
The organ of amat. is very small in children; but it in­
creases duringthe yearsofyouth andmanhood in proportion
to the increased strength of its corresponding passion; and
diminishesagain in old age. I have observed, also, that this
organ is much larger in married, than in unmarried, per­
sons.
In the spring of 1835,1 visited the deafand dumbasylum
of N. Y. city, and, to say that the organ ofimitat., as cfevel-
oped in the heads of the pupils of this institution, was twice
as large as it is usually found, would,by no means come up
to the truth. Such a aevelopment of this organ the authoi
had never seen before; and, what is most extraordinary is, it
was very large in all the pupils.
To the question, uHow is it possible for you to teach
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
these unfortunate beings, who Can neither hear nor talk, to
communicate their ideas and feelings with a readiness and
facility almost equal to those who can both talk and hear
Mr. Cary, one of the instructors, replied, 44We teach our
pupils to express themselves in those gestures and actions
which are the natural offspring of their feelings.” I wit­
nessed one oftheir debating performances, in which the one
who was addressing the rest, was all life and animation, and
made use of the most natural and powerful gesticulation.
See them at their meals, or at their sports, and all their com­
munications consist of their ideas acted out. Mr. Cary
brought one forward, who was noted for his wonderful power
of imitating a man shooting fowls. Another specimen of
imitative power at all to be compared with this, or another
such anorgan of imitat. as this youth possessed, I have never
seen.
That this orgap and its corresponding faculty are not in
so high a degree innate, is evident from the fact, that they
are so much larger in these youth than in others. Hence,
this increase of the organ in proportion to the exercise ofthe
faculty, and this extraordinary power of the faculty, which
corresponds with the increased size ofthe organ, bring usto
the obviousconclusion, that the reciprocal increaseofthe two,
stands in the relation of cause and effect.
Again; in the institution for the blind in the city of New
York, the manifestation in the pupils, of much smaller or­
gans of the perceptive than of the reflective faculties, is so
plain as not to be mistaken by the most superficial observer.
Now, why is this % Evidently because, in consequence of
a destitution of sight, they cannot exercise their perceptive
faculties, and, therefore, these remain unincreased; and, on
the same account, the reflective receive the greater exercise,
and, consequently, become uncommonly large.
This point, then, I shall take the liberty to consider as
established, both by analogy, and by physical demonstration^
namely, that the exercise of particular mental faculties,
causes the exercise, and consequent enlargement, of corres-
ponding portions ofthe brain, and, ofcourse, an increase of
the scull above them; (see p. 22-24;) so that the strength
ofparticular mentalfaculties can be determined by the size
of their cerebral organs, and the size of these OTgans by tho
form ofthe scull. This I conceive to be not only one ofthe
least explored, but one ofthe most important, departments of
16*
INCREASE OF THE ORGANS BY EXERCISE. 360
Digitized by L.ooole
m OBJECTION Si ANSWEBEU.
this invaluablescience; and, ifthisiscorrect, ofwhat moment*
importance—ofwhat immenseutility,a knowledge ofphre-
nology might be to parents and teachers. They might cul­
tivate or restrain—might stimulate or allay, such organs as
the case demanded, and thus make their children almost any
thing they choose. Not, however, that the nature of child­
ren could thus be changed \ but excesses could be prevented,
and the hand of the parent directed to the identical point of
excess or deficiency. Yes, sir, phrenology is destined to be
of greater practical utility to mankind than any— I had al­
most said, than every other science—-greater than any finite
mind can imagine. And yet, you oppose it? But you are
pardonable; for,as has been shown, you do it ignorantly.
Yours, &c. O. S. FOWLER.
PHRENOLOGY NOT DEPENDENT UPON
PHYSIOGNOMY.
You ask, **Ry examining the cranium, can a phrenolo­
gist pronounce aecisively whether a man is a liar, a thief
or a murderer, without reference to physiognomy 7 I an­
swer, just as well without physiognomy as with it. I will
also refer you to the certificates given by the keepers of most
©fthe prisons in Europe, which affirm that Drs. Gall and
Spurzheim, in every attempt, classified the prisoners with
perfect accuracy, according to their crimes. I will also ac­
company you to any prison yoa please, and pronounce cor­
rectly upon the class of crimes committed by given individu­
als, or yield the argument The subjoined notes are select­
ed, from many other similar cases, as in point*
* FVom the Pittsburg Times.
“ We attended at the Penitentiary during the afternoon of Friday, along with
several gentlemen, to eee Mr. L. N. Fowler examine the heads of the convicts.
TMs gentleman has been deliveringlectures, Ac., at the Hall of the Young Men’s
Society, and the purpose ofthe visit was totest hisphrenological skill. He passed
through the ordeal in a manner calculated to demonstrate, not only the authentic
' city of the science, butalsothe fairness of hisown claimsto au acquaintance with
Its principles.
“In no instance didhe seem toerr, eitherinrelation tothe natureof the offence
ht question, or in the particular detailsofcharacter which he generally slated mi­
nutely. The dispositions ofsome ofthe convicts were pronounced as equivocal :
thus—one was saidto be liable to commit rape, or murder, or possibly theft. The
convietion had been for rape. Another was stated to be prone to murder—or to
commit destruction in some way. The conviction had been for house burning.
The uncommon mechanical powers and high intellectual east of another, were
wtl! indicated. The case of----------, who robbed Mr. Cook, waRweil stated. Tlie
thieves, who were numerous, werd*generallydesignated very explicitly. 'The hoy
îlwlet was represented as being not particularly prone to criminality, except that
Digitized by Google
You say, “that Grail could easily determine that persons
were rogues when he saw them in prison.” True j but he
could not thereby determine the class of their crimes—
whether they were sent there forstealing, for assault and bat­
tery, or for murder, &c.; and this is what Dr. Gall did.
You also intimate, that phrenologists determine character
by the physiognomy. Surely, sir, you cannot be ignorant
of the fact, that, from the time I first came to Baltimore, to
this day, I have challenged disbelievers to cover the physi­
ognomy of the subject. I have, likewise, in this city, and
elsewhere, repeatedly examined subjects before large audi­
ences with my own eyes blindfolded; and, according tothe
testimony of the subjects themselves, and of all who knew
them, there was a perfect coincidence between my descrip
tions ofthe character, and the character itself.
Among many others, I re-examined, blindfolded, before
the Baltimore Lyceum, the head ofthe editor ofthe Chroni­
cle. The gentleman then stated to the audience, that the
description corresponded, on every point, with that previous­
ly given before an audience at my first lecture. The first
time I examined the gentleman, he was a perfect stranger to
me; and the second time, I knew not whom I was describ­
ing. And yet, it is a matter of publick notoriety, a fact sub­
stantiated by the publick testimony of Mr. Barnes himself,
that the two descriptions agreed in every respect, both with
each other, and with histrue character.
After the lecture, a gentleman produced a little boy. I
said he was a thief—was cunning, deceitful, lying, haughty,
stubborn, proud, ungovernable, &c; The gentleman said,
“your description is perfectly accurate. Till now I have
PHRENOLOGY INDEPENDENT OF PHYSIOGNOMY. 371
he Would be liable to be led by others to any sort of crime. This was the well-
known case ofmanslaughter, committed at Wilkinsburgh byagangofboys, atthe
instigation ofcertain notoriousvillains.
“ In the evening we submitted to his inspection the scull of avery remarkable
character, a most devoted boxerand blackguard. He returned a written descrip­
tion singularly correct; remarking, among other things, that 'he was continually
under the influence of a querulous, barbarous disposition/ A c. 'the slaveof his
propensities; lovedquarreling aswell as eating.111
From the Frankfort Argue.
"Mr.Fowler, who is now in town, visited the Penitentiary on Monday lent, and
examined the heads of some fifteen or twenty of the convicts, giving nia opinion
upon their propensities, and naming the probable crimes which brought them
there. The correctness ofhis conclusions wasgenerally corroborated by the ad-
missionof the subjects, as well as by the statements orthe keepers themselve%
who were acquainted with the crimes withwhich they were convicted.1*
See, also, a descriptionof my visittothe Moyamensing prison in Philadelphie*
contained in the U. 8. Gazette ofabout the tenthofSept 1836.
Digitized by G j O O Q i e
S72 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
been a sceptick; butthis convinces me that your science is
true.” Thus you perceive, that a rogue can be detected as
well in k church as in a prison.
While discussing the question before the Baltimore Ly­
ceum, “ whether phrenology ought to be ranked among the
exact sciences,” after bringing forward nearly the same ob­
jections that you adduce, and in nearly the same style, my
opponent wrote out the character of a Mr. Wolf, an attorney,
in the form of answers to questions. These questions he re­
quired me to answer before the audience, by an examination
of Mr. W.’s head ; and the two descriptions agreed perfect­
ly, except that he said Mr. W. had no imitation; but I
said he |iad it large. A gentleman who had been intimate
with Mr. W. for fifteen years, said he had it large. An ap­
peal wasthen made to Mr. W., who remarked, that, although
he was no mirpick,yet he could draw, sketch, draught, take
profiles,imitate different handwritings, &c., with much more
than ordinary facility and accuracy. But I did not say he
could mimicfc, for he had but little secret., which, according
to phrenology, is almost indispensable inmimickry.------ The
cheering was tremendous, and the Lyceum decided, not only
that phrenology was one of the sciences, but that it was one
even ofthe exact sciences.
I might go on todetail thousands ofcases in which I have
not only corrected the opinions of individuals in regard to
each other, butevenconcerningthemselves. To a certain gen­
tleman in this city,forexample, I gavesmall event, and large
ideal., and told him that hecould write poetry. He said, that
though he loved poetry, he had no talent at all for writing
it. On this hint, however, he tried it; and his effort was
completely successful, his poem being well-filled with po-
etick fire. He remarked that this was his first effort, but a
friend of his youth reminded him, that, while young, he had
written several pieces, which were copied and admired
throughout his neighbourhood. His small event, had let the
incident slip from his memory. I have often announced
publickly, and here again repeat, that I even prefer that the
physiognomy ofthe subject for examination, should be cover­
ed; and am perfectly willing to examine even with my own
eyes blindfolded. In as much, then, as I challenge you to
remove all possibility of my ascertaining the character ex­
cept by the application ofphrenological principles, ev4n if I
Digitized
:ed by C j O O ^ I c
were guided by the physiognomy, the argument that I am,
couldnotbeadmitted.
The writer takes the liberty of introducing two or three
t>ther paragraphs from his reply totheletter addressed tohim
by Dr. Munding.
1
4You say, that the 1first point which particularly strikes
your attention, is,’ that ‘ I make myself a fortune-teller.’
Now, sir, a fortune-teller has to do mainly with events, and
pretendsto tell what has been, or predict what will be. But,
in describing character phrenologically, I have nothing to
do with the events of a man’s life any farther than they are
dependent upon his character. It is,indeed,true, that I often
say to an individual, for example, in whom cautious, issmall,
combat, large, and hope very large, ‘you, sir, generally have
been, and generally will be, unfortunate, and frequently in
difficultyand to another, in whom cautious, and caus. are
large or very large, ‘you, sir, generally have been, and
generally will be, successful in your undertakings.’ In do­
ing this, however, 1pronounce upon the fortune ofthe indi­
vidual only as it is the result of his character.
“But wno does, not, more or less, judge of the character
and talents of individuals by their physiognomy ?—(and in
the practice ofphysiognomy, is generally included thefore­
head of an individual; and, thusfar, it is phrenology.) In
pronouncing upon character physiognomically, then, the
same kind ofprocess is involved as that employed in judging
phrenologically, with the difference only, that the physiog­
nomist judges by looking at the face, the phrenologist, by
looking at the whole headj therefore, if the latter is a for-
- tune-teller, so is the former—so are all mankind, in short,
for all participate, more or less, in the practice of physiog­
nomy.
“ You infer that if phrenology is true, some ot tne organs
might be destroyed, and the others go on to perform their
functions without interruption. You are right: the fact is
just as you infer it must be, onthe supposition that phrenol­
ogy is true.
“ But I must not leave unansweredyour argument, that, if
phrenology is true, the organ of tune and the acoustick
nerve must be in contact. You assume that the ear is the
organ ofrousick. This, your first premise ofthe argument,
I deny: for if the ear were the organ of musick, the perfec­
tion of one’s musical talent would be in proportion to his
*REPLY TO DR. MtJKDIftG. 373
Digitized by Google
374 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
power of hearing. But, how often do we see those whose
faculty of hearing is perfectly good, but who cannot distin­
guish one tune, or evenonenote, from another! I can hear
very well, but can learn a tune only by dint of persevering
effort, and then only mechanically, while a brother of mine,
who is partially deaf, can learn a tune much quicker* and
sing it much better, than I can. Your first premise, then,
being incorrect, the whole argument falls. This much is
evident, however, that the musical faculty does not depend
upon the power of hearing: and, since this power is an ex­
ercise of the mind, it must, consequently, require the exer­
cise of some cerebral organ. (See p. 181 and 217.)
4The various passions of love, anger, reflection, shame,
&c., exhibit themselves throughthe eye;and yet, it cannotbe
supposed that theyare performed bythe opticknerve. Doubt­
less there is some connexion between those partsof the brain
by meansof which these various passions are performed and
the optick nerve, and also between the organ oftune and the
acoustick nerve, just as there is betweenthestomach and the
brain; but still it does not follow, that this connexion should
be susceptible of anatomical demonstration, any more in
the case of tune, than in that of the others mentioned, and
in that of hundreds of similar cases, which might easily be
cited.”
LETTERS TO DR. MAXWELL McDOWALL.
The following extracts are froma seriesofletters address­
ed to Maxwell MeDowall, M. D., of Baltimore, by O. S.
Fowler. This same Dr. McDowall, as already stated, is,
doubtless, one of the authors of Vindex. The writer has
omitted one important objection urged by Vindex, namely,
tnat phrenology leads tofatalism,only because the objection
is much better stated by Dr. McDowall.
Sir : In the May number of the Baltimore Literary and
Religious Magazine, there appeared an article from your
pen, designed to disprove, and calculated to injure, the sci­
ence ofphrenology. By evidencethe mostsatisfactory—the
most demonstrative, I am fully convinced that phrenology is
based upon the broad and immutable principles of nature,
truth, and reason; that it isa science by farthe mostsublime
and useful ever discovered, and that the principles ofhuman
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
LETTERS to d r . m 'd o w a l l . S75
nature and mental philosophy which it develops, are calcu­
lated toelevate the character, and improve the physical, intel­
lectual, and moral condition of mankind, more than all the
other sciences put together—more, indeed, than can well be
imagined. As a man, then, as a philanthropist, and espe­
cially as a Christian, though unaccustomed to publick dis­
cussions, I cannot pass unnoticed any obstacle which is cal­
culated to arrest the progress of a science, which, from the
first, has been struggling even for its existence, and which,
though opposed at every step of its triumphant progress by
an unparalleled amount of opposition, of ridicule, and mis­
representation, fromthe pulpit,the press,andthe lecture-room,
and, in short, from every conceivable source, is now gaining
strength enough to bear down before it all opposition. To
say the least, it is no more than fair that phrenology should
be heard in reply, though it is to be regretted, that it doesnot
speak through a more able and experienced organ. It
is, however, hoped that the comparative youth and inexperi­
ence of the author may be more than compensated by the
strength of his cause; for, magna est xeritas.
You dwell much, sir, upon the question of Dr. Goodto Dr.
Spurziieim,4
4Why does phrenology assign no organs tofolly,
absurdity, wisdom, hypocrisy, gluttony, sensuality, mirth,
melancholy, &c. ?’’ Really, sir, are you so grossly igno­
rant, even of the very elements of the science you attack, as
not to know that phrenology classes gluttony under the per­
verted exercise ofaliment.; hypocrisy, under that ofsecret.;
sensuality, under that ofamat., aliment., andsomeofthe other
propensities; melancholy, under that of cautious in the ab­
sence of hope; mirth, under the exercise of mirth.; wisdom,
under that of caus. and compar.; a 1r 11 J v
to this ignorance, so little discrimination as not to perceive,
even intuitively, that folly and absurdity, in reality, amount
to the very same thing, and, instead of oeing positive opera­
tions of the mind, are mere negative qualities, or the defi­
ciency of reason ? Do you not know that the glutton is*
sensualist, that the libertine isa sensualist, and the drunkard,
a sensualist? Now, phrenology has more wisdom than to
assign different kindsof sensuality tothe same organ. And
yet, this is the ground both of your objection ana of that of
the great Dr. Good. By the way, when Dr. Good penned
the article alluded to, he was almost entirely ignorant, even
der the absenceof these organs ?
Digitized by Google
376 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.'
of the outlines of phrenology. This is evident, not only
from almost every sentence of his chapter upon this subject,
but also from the passage you quote. He did not even know
that hypocrisy was one of the manifestations of secret.—a
fact of which the veriest tyro in phrenology ought to be
ashamed to be ignorant. But you also commit the very
same errour. Nor is this the only instance in which you
betray an ignorance of phrenology altogether unpardonable
in one who attempts to convince the world that it is untrue.
In justice to phrenology, I must here reflect somewhat
severely upon anti-phrenologists generally, not exempting
even yourself from the censure. No one is qualified to de­
cide upon the truth or erroneousness of any subject what­
ever, until he has examined, in person, the evidence by
which it claims to be supported. Now, phrenology profess­
es to be demonstrated solely byfacts. It affirms that a cer­
tain development of brain is always accompanied by a cer­
tain manifestation of intellect or feeling, and that these man­
ifestationsare uniformthroughout thewholeanimal kingdom.
Hence, then, no person is qualified toform any decision upon
the truth of phrenology, until h6 has examined the facts in
ihe case for himself; that is, until he has learned both the
location of the phrenological organs, and their analysis.
I have already exposed your ignorance ofthe analysis of the
organs. And you even misstate their number,and, of course,
can know very little oftheir location. Now, sir, I ask you,
I ask the world, whether it is right, whether itis philosophi­
cal, whether it is acting a manly part, for you not only to
condemn phrenology yourself, but also pubhckly to attempt
its refutation, whilst you are almost wholly ignorant both of
its principles, and of its details. But you are not alone.
Hundreds have written against it, and millions are now con­
demning it, who know just nothing at all about it—not even
enough to distinguish it from fortune-telling. The blind
have led the blind until they are all tumbled together into
the ditch.
By your quotation from Dr. Charles Bell, you would
fain make the world believe that Drs. Gall and Spurzheim
were the greatest anatomical ignoramuses that ever lived.
But, sir, your efforts are too late in the day to fix this im­
pression upon any except those who are entirely unacquaint­
ed with the truth in this matter. The fact is, and is becom­
ing universally admitted, that these distinguished literary
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
LETTERS TO DR. M*DOWALL. 377
geniuses have thrown more light upon the anatomy of the
brain, and of the nervous system, than was ever before shed
upon these subjects—that their anatomical discoveries, and
knowledge, and researches, at least, equal, if they do notfar
surpass, those of any other two men who have ever lived.
Vears before thefar-famed discovery of Dr. C. Bell,relating
to the nervoussystem, Dr. Spurzheim suggested tothe world
the very same idea which constituted that discovery, as
probable. Medical schools and medical authors are univer­
sally adopting the phrenological anatomy of the brain and
of the nervous system, and by far the best anatomical dis­
sections of the brain, are those which proceed upon phre­
nological principles.
So far from disproving phrenology, anatomy perfectly
harmonizes with it, and even lends itevery possible support:
and this shows that both are the twin sisters of truth and
nature. Comparative anatomy, in particular, furnishes ar­
guments the most conclusive, the most unanswerable, in sup­
port of phrenology. (See pp. 26 to 34.)
You are also at fault, sir, for attacking phrenology as it
was some twenty years ago, when you should have attacked
it as it is now. Every new science has its weak points.
How many absurdities clustered around chymistry fifty, or
even twenty, years ago, around astronomy before the days
of Newton, around every science while yet in its infancy!
Phrenology has butjust burst upon our world. It is yet in
its infancy—is yet wanting that perfect beauty and symme­
try, and that analysis which time alone can give it. Doubt­
less much more remains to be discovered than has yet been
discovered. Great allowance ought to be made to phrenol­
ogy even as it now is; much more as it was twenty years,
or even ten years, ago. Yet, instead of making the allow­
ance which is really its due, you do not even give it all the
credit which belongs to it. But in this you are not alone.
You say, bottom of page 137, “carefullyremovethe scull
from any given number of human heads, and there will be
a uniformity of appearance on the surface of the several
brains.” Of course, you mean, ifyou mean any thing, that
the “surfaces ofany given number of brains, are uniform !”
This statement I deny in toto. The fact is, that wherever
there is a regular swell of the external table of the scull,
indicative of the development ofa phrenological organ, there
is also a corresponding depression of the internal table,
Digitized by L.ooQle
378 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
which is filled up with brain, excepting! always, the region
of the sinuses, and the mastoid and other processes.
I will accompany you, or any other person, to any collec­
tion of sculls you please, and demonstrate mv position, or
give up the argument. Scattering exceptionsthere may be;
but, as a general thing, the external surface ofthe brain and
of the scull correspond nearly enough for all phrenologi­
cal purposes.
It is true, when the scull is removed, as the brain is too
soft to retain its original shape, the higher portions some­
what flatten down; so that we must determine the natural
shape of the brain by that of the internal surface of the
scull. At the location of some oftheorgans, various brains
differ in size more than an inch. Yet, you say, that the
“surfaces of different brains are uniform.” I ask, then, what
fillsthecavitiesbetween thesesculls andtheir brains? If your
statement were correct, the scull of Washington must have
been more than an inch thicker, just above {he eyes, than
that of Franklin, and an inch thinner in the upper and lat­
eral part of the forehead. Compare these two foreheads^—
compare any two headsyou please, and if there is any agree­
ment between the general shape of the head and that of the
brain, your argument, so far from disproving phrenology, is*
unanswerable in its favour.
You assert, sir, that anatomists havedivided thebrain into
three sections, assigning to on6 section the seat of the intel­
lect ; to another, that of the animal senses; to a third, that
of the feelings generally. Pray, sir, how does this differ
from the phrenological divisions, except that the former con­
sists of three, the Tatter of thirty-five, sections? And what­
ever arguments you bring against the phrenological divis­
ions, I will bring, mutatis mutandis, against theanatomical
divisions.
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN.
You mention the case of a gentleman who, by the frac­
ture of his scull, sustained a severe injury of the brain, and
a considerable loss of it,and yet, you gravely assure us, that
not the slightest difference could bediscoveredin his mental
power—that “there wasno change whatever in his capability
foracquiring knowledge.” Now, there are several wavs of
accounting for this fact In the first place,this loss of brain
Digitized by t j O O Q l e
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 379
might have been made up. Other portionsof the body, the
bones,flesh,&c.,have thepower,afterpartsofthem have been
removed, of reproduction. A wound heals, a bone or nerve
reunites, &c. Why, then, should not the brain possess the
same power, and be able to supplyportions whichhave been
iemoved? And since analogy is on my side of the argu­
ment, itbelongs to you either to admit that it does, or elseto
prove that it does not. In the second place, on the suppo­
sition that phrenology is wholly false, will you have the
goodness to explain this phenomenon upon the principles of
your owndoctrine of the unityof the brain and ofthe mental
power? According to youtheory, an injury of any por­
tion of the brain, must affect it as a whole, and, an injuring
of the brain as a whole, mustequally impair everyoperation
of the mind. And yet, by your own admission, all the
mental powers, in the case you cite, remained unimpaired.
But, bythe application of the principles of phrenology, the
explanation of this phenomenon is perfectly easy and ra­
tional; for, as the organs are double, like the eyes, ears, &c.,
and, as the accident occurred partly upon one side of the
forehead, it is evident, that, while one or more organs upon
that side of the head, were labouring under the injury caus­
ed by the wound, the corresponding organs upon the other
side of the head, being uninjured, performed the functions
of both sets of organs, just as, when one eye is injured, see­
ing is performed by the other eye. This fact, then, so far
from militating against phrenology, proves it to be incom­
parably superiour to your favourite doctrine of the unity of
the brain.
You also adduce cases of hydrocephalick affection, in the
first of which, “the brain was discovered to be in a liquid
state; in the second, the whole substance was watery, and so
soft that it would hardly bear the knife; and in the third, be­
sides water in the ventricles and an effusion of blood upon
the tentorium, there seemed to be a total change of the con­
sistence and colour of the brain throughout, so that it would
neither bear handling nor cutting, the parts being uncom­
monly indistinct.” And yet, mirabile dictu, the subjects
could think and feeljust as well toithout brains, forsooth, as
with them.
These cases, if theyprove any thing, prove that the brain
is not the organ of the mind; for “a loss of a part of the
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
380 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
brain,” and “a total change of its consistency, do not, in the
slightest degree, affect the operations of the mind!”
The inevitable conclusion, thep, from your own argu­
ments and premises, is, that the mind acts wholly and entire­
ly independent of the brain—a conclusion directly at war
with a fundamental principle of every existing system of
intellectual, and natural, and n&edical philosophy, viz., that
the brain is the organ ofthe mind. But, in several different
places, you admit, distinctly, that the brain is the organ of
the mind; and then you go on to show that its loss and dis­
organization have no influence whatever upon the mind.
Admirableconsistency! Andthis drives youtotakethe one or
the other of the horns of the following dilemma—you must
admiteither that yourargument is fallacious, or else that the
mind acts independently of the brain; either of which ad­
missions contradicts one of your own positions.
But how, I would ask, do these cases affect phrenology?
I maintain that they do not even touch it assuch: for, if the
whole mind can operate by means of the whole brain, even
though itbe hydrocephalick, then, surely, onefaculty of the
mind can operate by means of one part of it, even though
it be hydrocephalick. Why doyou not argue against phre­
nology as such—phrenology per se?
FREE AGENCY AND FATALISM.
But your most prominent objection to phrenology is, that,
“When carried out to the full extent of its minuteness of detail,
it renders mankind completely passive in their moral character—
strikes at the root of the free agency and accountability of man, and
makes God the author of sin. But, to my mind, it is passing strange,
that a portion of mankind should be furnished by the Creator, with
organs for the cultivation of theft and murder—organs which, when
extensively developed, produce such an irresistible propensity in the
individual, to the commission of those degrading crimes, that he
cannot be restrained by all the other counteracting organs. The
admission of such a doctrine, is calculated to throw a reflection on
the h o lt and all-w i^e Goo, in thus rendering it physically impossi­
ble for some of the human family to avoid being murderers, and rob­
bers, and thieves. Dr. Spurzheim directly avows that the Creator
has sanctioned the perpetration of robbery and murder, by furnish­
ing organs and propensities for the commission of these crimes.11
When stated in form, your objection amountstothis : The
leading doctrine of phrenology is, that moral actions and
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
FATALISM. 391
moral conduct are the result of, or, at least, conform to, and
agree with, the physical form of the cranium. This con­
formity, then, must be in the relation of cause and effect—
necessary,andnotaccidental. Therefore, every motalagent
must be ruled by this relation, and has no power to deviate
from it, which amounts to a full denial of free ageney ; and
when fully illustrated, the objection amounts to this: Since
God creates one individual with those organs very large
which, when thus developed, manifest themselves m steal­
ing, lying, quarreling, fighting, murder, licentiousness, or
vice of any kind, such individual is compelled, by these
physical organs which his Creator has given him, tocommit
these crimes; and, since he cannot help himself, nor resist
the instinctive operations of his organs any more than he
can avoid being hungry when deprived of food, or sleepy,
when deprived of rest, or seeing objects when they are pre­
sentedto his organs of vision, he is, therefore, not accounta­
ble or blameable, and, consequently, not punishable, for his
actions. On the other hand, sinceGod creates another man
with a large development of the organs which indicate kind­
ness, nobleness, and high moral and intellectual qualities, no
thanks to him that he is kind, virtuous, ju3t, praiseworthy,
intelligent, &c., for, he is obliged to be so by his physical
organization, over which he can exercise no control, or
govern by any act of personal volition. A blood-thirsty
Nero, or a Caligula, and a philanthropick Howard, are
each alike virtuous and alike vicious, because each acts in
perfect conformity to the physical development of his men­
tal organs; and, as God created and designed him to act.
Another, by being created destitute of the organs of ven.,
conscien., benev., &c., in consequence of this natural defect
in his organization, cannot worship his God, cannot resist
temptation, or exercise gratitude or penitence, cannot deal
justly or exercise thefeelingofbenevolenceor of mercy;and,
therefore, ought not tobe blamed, much less punished,for not
doing what he is physically incapable of doing. What!
the infinitely just and benevolent Creator to give a man no
eyes, and then punish him for not seeing, or to give him an
appetite for food, and then punish him for being hungry!
To admit the truth of phrenology, therefore, is to destroy all
free-agency, and all power of voluntary choice, and, with
them, all moral accountability, all virtue, all vice, and, con­
sequently, all liability to rewards or punishments, both in
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
382 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
this life and in another state of existence] for the Creator
determines the physical organization of man, and this deter­
mines their whole character, and, in conjunction with cir­
cumstances, causes them to feet and act in a given way.
Hence, the whole doctrine of human agency and accounta­
bility is annihilated, and the adorable Deity is made the ne­
cessary author of all sin* and yet this same Deity punishes
innocent and helpless man, both for doing what he obliges
him to do, and also for not doing what he has given him no
jpower to perform.
Inasmuch as this objection forms the great gun of the op­
position to phrenology—the terrifick scare-crow which has
frightened many, and particularly religious people, so that
they dare not even look at the arguments and facts in the
case, and inasmuch as it appears to be a very plausible ob­
jection, and one which, to my own mind, has never been sat­
isfactorily answered by other phrenologists, I shall endea­
vour to reply to it more at large than to any objections hith­
erto noticed. Permit me, then, to beg your careful attention
to the following distinct arguments.
F i r s t ,—That certain vicious p r o p e n s i t i e s do exist.
and are very strong, is an a b s o l u t e m a t t e r o f f a c t —a
fact which every where stares every observer of human na­
ture full in the face. One man is cruel and ferocious, and
another mild andtender-hearted; oneistalented, and another
foolish; one is timid, and anotherbfrave,&c. See middle of
p. 315 and 316; also, description of the lad in Lansing-
burgh, p. 261, contrasted with that of the benevolent girl, p.
262: see, likewise, description of the young lady, p. 280,
of Mr. Brown, p. 298, of Franklin Gribson, p. 304, of the
young lady, p. 310, of the lad, p. 311, of the lad described
upon p. 320; of Col. Knapp, Webster, Clay, &c.
A gentleman recently entered my office, and desired me
to tell him the whole truth. At the close of the examina­
tion, he remarked, that the description was perfect, only that
one marked, one predominant, trait of character had been
omitted. “And I can tell you what that is, sir,” said I :
“you have a very strong propensity to steal.” “You are
right, sir,” he replied ; “yet you and I are the only persons
that know it. Notwithstanding all my effortsto rid myself
of it, the propensity still exists,andis well nigh irresistible.”
^ A lad was recently brought me, whom I described as a
Digitized by Google
FATALISM. 383
lump of wickedness,yet talented. His uncle remarked, that
he had never seen his equal, either for depravity or talent.
In Virginia, the following statement was made to me by
a responsible gentleman, concerninga young lady who was
brought up in the same neighbourhood with himself. “This
young lady,”-he said, “ who was descended from one of the
first families in the state, and was amply provided for, when
on a visit at the house of a relative in Petersburgh, Va.,
stole a family gold medal from off the neck of a little child,
and pawned it. By advertising, the owner found it, and, to
his utter astonishment and mortification, learned that his
own niece had pawned the stolen property. Stung to the
quick to think that his family should be thus disgraced, he
turned her out of his house. Onanother occasion, she was
strongly suspected of having stolen a gold watch, and, a
search-warrant being procured, there were found in her pos­
session silver spoons, knives and forks, table-cloths, towels,
and various articles of clothing which were recognised asbe­
longing to others, a very large assortment of jewelry, and
apparently every thing upon which she could well lay her
hands, together with the gold watch—all of which, itappear­
ed upon evidence, she had stolen! It also appeared that she
had several times used various arts to decoyindividuals into
her power, forthe mere purpose of robbing them. She was
accordingly cast out of respectable society, and, at last, was
found keeping anoysterestablishment,in order that she might
the more successfully prey upon her customers.
“With deep emotion, her brothers begged her, for their
sakes, and for the honour of their family, as well as for her
own, not to disgrace herself*and them. They told her, if
she wanted money, they would give her thousands, rather
than suffer the honour of their names to be thus tarnished.
Yet it was all of no avail. She is still living just as she has
always lived—an abandoned thief!”
An English provincial paper tells a story of a female,
moving in the upper circles of society at Ramsgate, and
possessed of considerable wealth, who was detected in the
market of that town pilfering turnips from a poor person’s
stall.
Thousands of similar cases might easily be stated in ad­
dition, exclusive of what other phrenologists have already
recorded—all showing certain strong, if not predominant,
propensities or talents. Instances of extraordinary mechan-
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
384 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
ical or poetical taste or talent, of strongand original powers
of thought, and of the various other marks of genius, such
as were possessed by a Benjamin West, a Michael Angelo,
aWebster, a Clay, a Bonaparte, a Shakspeare, &c., have
occurred in all ages and in all countries, and are equally ap­
plicable to the point in question. Need I, then, point toour
prisons, or to our criminal courts—need I cite the number­
less details of cold-blooded murders, of revengeful duels,
and of daring robberies, which blacken almost every news­
paper?—need I enumeratethe ever-varying,ever-multiplying
crimes of mankind in confirmation or illustration of the po­
sition that vicious p r o p e n s i t i e s d o e x i s t , and that they
are v e r y s t r o n g ; for where is the individual who is not
himself an illustration of it?—that is, who does not himself
possesssome vicious propensity, some ‘easily-besetting1sin?
Virtuous traits of character, also, which are equally ap­
plicable to the argument, are found likewise to exist, and
are not unfrequently joined with very vicious propensities.
As well might one attempt, in short, to deny that two and
two make four, or that he exists, as to deny the existence
both of virtuous and of vicious traits of character.
So far as the argument is concerned, then, what difference
does it make, whether certain vicious propensities are,or are
not, invariably accompanied by certain developments of the
brain, and certain virtuous feelings and talents, by other ce­
rebral developments? The objection, so far as it is appli­
cable at all, lies only against thepropensities themselves,and
not against their physical organs, which, phrenologically
considered, are mere physical indications of them.
Now, sir, since it is a mager of fact and observation, that
certain vicious propensities and certain virtuoustraits of char­
acter, as wellas certaintalents, d o e x i s t , and are also v e r t
s t r o n g and frequently p r e d o m i n a n t , you are, in reality,
urging this objection, not against the existence of certain
phrenological organs connected with these manifestationsof
intellectand feeling,butagainst the existenceofthese m e n t a l
m a n if e s t a t i o n s t h e m s e l v e s —notfagainstthe existence of
these merely accompanying physical signs which phrenolo­
gy has discovered, but against the existence of the p r o p e n ­
s i t i e s t h e m s e l v e s —not against the phrenological expla­
nation of these facts, but against the existence of f a c t s as
t h e y a r e —against the system of things as it i s — or, in
Digitized by v^ooole
FATALISM. 385 •
other words, against the government of u the all wise and
holy God.”
Inasmuch, then, as you urge your objection against the
existence of certain inclinations and talents of the mind,and
inasmuch.as daily observation, if not personal experience,
compels you to admit the existence of these things, you are
obliged to admit the very thing to which you object: and
since you, equally with myself, admit the existence of that
to the existence of which you object, it belongs to you to an­
swer your own objection, rather than to me to answer it for
you; for, so far as the argument is concerned, an objection
is fairly answered when shown to lie with equal weight
against what the objector himself admits. You cannot but
perceive that you are not urgingthis objection against phre­
nology as such, but against what is. You are therefore
chargeable with the very same heresy with which you accuse
phrenology, and, consequently, must either admit that your
inference is unfounded, or else, that it “reflects” no less
against the creation and government of the “all-wise and
holy God” than it does against phrenology.
How is phrenology at fault for merely pointing out the
indications of the existence of certain talents and propensi­
ties, when the Almighty himself has hung out these signs
for the guidance of man?—for merely declaring, that that
exists which actually does exist? If phrenology did not
show that one man possesses a remarkable mechanical tal­
ent, another, a murderous propensity, another, an honest or
a benevolent disposition, another, a high endowment of in­
tellect, &c., it would not correspond with the facts in the
case, and, therefore, could not be true.
If I am rightly informed, you, sir, are a believer, notonly
in the Bible, but also in the general features of the Calvin-
istick creed. If, therefore, your argument is valid, in com­
mon with all other believers in this, or a kindred, doctrine,
you are the very last who can consistently assail phrenolo­
gy upon the ground of your argument, but ypu oughtto be
the first to hail it with “joy unspeakable,” as a scientifick
confirmation of a doctrine which, as you maintain, is as in­
dispensable to salvation as breath is to our corporeal exist­
ence ; and yet, strange inconsistency 1 you are the very first
to attack, and the most violent in opposing, that very science
which, according to your own interpretation ofit, fully con­
firms that doctrine which lies nearest your heart. You,
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
386 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
forsooth, will believe, and most zealously maintain and de­
fend, the doctrine of divine sovereignty and fore-ordination
as the foundation and the essence of that “ faith without
which no man can be saved,” and yet, reject phrenology, be­
cause (according to your interpretation) it teaches precisely
the same doctrine. Admirable consistency! What freedom
from bigotry and prejudice f Believe a doctrine which you
fancy that you find in the Bible, and regard it as the philos­
ophers’stone in religious matters, andyet,reject phrenology
as a most horrid and blasphemous thing, because it teaches
theverysamedoctrine\ This shows howsincerely you believe
in your Calvinistick creed, and how much common sense
you exercise in referencetoihat belief. You, and all others of
the Calvinistick creed, are bound, then, either to believe in
phrenology, or to give upthe pole-star ofyour religious faith.
S e c o n d l y ,— It is self-evident that divine agency either
does, or does not, influence and determine human actions—
that it either is, or is not, concerned in bringing about events.
If the Deity does not, in any way, influence the conduct or
men, surely, he has no hand in any thing that takes place
in the world, for all other terrestrial transactions bear do
comparison with this in importance. If, then, God has no
agency in the doings of men, surely he has no agency in
the operations of nature, and, therefore, does not rule.
But if God does rule—if divine agency is efficient in
forming human character, and in bringing about events,
then human agency cannot be efficient in bringing about the
same: or, in other words, just so far as divine agency forms
human character, determines human conduct, and causes
events, human agency does not do it,and man cannot be free
and accountable. It follows,then,that,as farasyour objection
bears against phrenology, it alsobears, and with equalforce,
against the Deity’s having any hand in any thing that con­
cerns the character and the conduct of men. Now, as re­
gards your objection, it makes not the least difference whe­
ther the Deity forms human character, and determines the
conduct of men, by means of direct, compulsory force, or
by phrenological organs, or by other circumstances; for the
objection really lies against the Deity’s having any hand at
all, either in forming the characters of men,in determining
their conduct, or in bringing about any event whatever.
What! then, do you, Dr. McDowall, a professor of re­
ligion, really undertake tomaintain that the God who rules
Digitized by b o o g i e
FATALISM. 387
above, has no agency in determining the characters of men,
and in the management of human affairs%and thus, by de­
nying that He gives any bias to the character of his crea­
tures, virtually deny that he rules? •If you answer this
question in the affirmative, then be consistent, and drop your
objection at once ; if in thè negative, you are justly charge­
able,either with the grossest inconsistency, or with downright
atheism. One of these two answers, however, you must
give ; and which, I leave with you to choose. But, if you
admit the doctrine of free agency, personal volition, and
moral accountability, (which your objection necessarily im­
plies,) and also that God is the sovereign ruler of the uni­
verse, (which you must do, or be an atheist,) have the good­
ness to answer your own objection ; for I urge it against
what you admit with just the same propriety, and upon pre­
cisely the same grounds, that you urge it against phrenol­
ogy: and an objection is always considered as answered
when shown to lie with equal weight against what the ob­
jector himself admits.
To what has been said, you may, indeed, reply ; “But, sir,
you do not answerthe objection by throwing itback into my
teeth—you do not get yourself out of the snare by getting
me into it.” True, sir, but I thereby shut your mouth. First
extricate yourself from the snare you have laid, and you
will thereby release mefrom it. In other words, first answer
your own objection as it is applicable to matters offact,and
to the government of the Deity, and you will thereby answer
it asapplicableto phrenology: and, until you dothus answer
it, consistency requires you to drop it, since, by urging it at
all, you urge it, not against phrenology as such, but against
the worksandthe government of “ theallwise and holyGodf
and may therefore settleyour owndifficulty with your maker.
Thus far, then, I have virtually admitted, but will now
endeavour to answer, the objection.
T h i r d l y ,—It is a fundamental principle in phrenology,
that the size of the organs is increasedby theexercise of the
correspondingfaculties. See bottom of p. 21 and p. 22, and
the chapteron “the increase of the organs by exercise,” pp.
365 to 370. The organs of acquis., destruct., &c., are only
the instruments of the corresponding propensities, and not
the propensities themselves, northe causesofthem; and their
development is, in a great degree, the effect, and not the
cause, of the exercise of the corresponding passions. Men
Digitized by boogie
388 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
are not murderers, liars, thieves,&c.,becausethey have very
large destruct, secret., acquis., &c., but they have large de-
struct, secret., acquis., &c., because they are murderers, liars,
thieves, SfC. True, the power of the propensity, the activi-
ty being considered, isproportionate tothe size of the organ,
but isnot causedby it; and, therefore, the whole responsibili­
ty falls back upon the necessary cause ofthese propensities.
Hence, very large organs ofacquis., destruct., &c., insteadof
compelling, or even urging,their possessors to violence and
theft, are merely the instruments by means of which these
vicious passions are exercised; and the size of these organs
shows only how much their guilty possessor has chosen to
exercise the corresponding propensities. The size of an
organ, then, not only does not cause and determine the
strength of the corresponding propensity, but is itself caused
and determined by the strength of the passion.
It is true, indeed, that when an organ is very large, the
corresponding faculty is spontaneously and proportionally
the more powerful, and sometimes well nigh uncontrollable;
but the guihy individual had no right thus to indulge the
passion, and thereby to enlarge the organ. In this, mainly,
consists his guilt. The strength ofthedepraved propensities,
is, inagreat degree,proportionatetotheir indulgenceor culti­
vation;and,consequently,theguiltofanindividual isalsopro­
portionate tothe sameindulgence: that is, the guilt is in pro­
portion to the strength and misapplication ofthe depraved pro­
pensities;andthesedepend mainlyon cultivation. Arethede­
siresofthe libertine,thethief,the murderer,&c.,the less crimi­
nalbecausetheyhavebeenstimulated and indulged,and there­
by increased, until they have becometoo clamorous and too
powerful to be controlled? By no means; but the stronger
these depraved desires, the greater their possessor’s guilt
So it is with the phrenological organs. They are seldom
inordinately large, unless the corresponding faculties have
been inordinately indulged; and this indulgence is the
clearest, the strongestpossible proofofthe subject’s guilt It
follows, then, that very large destruct., acquis., secret, ainat,
&c., so far from excusing the murderer, the thief, the hypo­
crite, the libertine, &c., are physical vouchers for his guilt
Like the mark putupon Cain, theytell the story of his guilt
The same principle, reversed, applies to small organs.
When a given organ, say that of conscien. or ven., is small,
this deficiency shows, not that the individual carmoX hejust,
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
FATALISM. 38»
or worship his maker, but, simply, that he has not been, and
done so. To every individual, more or lessofevery faculty
and organ are originally given; so that, by reasonably ex­
ercising what conscien. and yen. he has, he can obtain
more—by “ cultivating his one talent,” he can increase it to
five. But if he neglect to exercise what conscien. and ven.
he may possess—if he “ bury his talent in the earth,”
“ even what he has, will be taken from himand, for his
guilty misimprovement of the one talent, he will be justly
“cast out into outer darkness.”
A most interesting fact, bearing directly upon this point,
s, that in the heads of the hundreds, if not thousands, of
children which I have observed, the organ of conscien. is
generally, not only very large, but, excepting cautious., one
of the largest organs m the whole head, whilst, in the sev­
eral thousand heads of menwhich havefallen under my own
observation, conscien. has beenfounddecidedlylowerthan the
average ofthe other organs in nearly one-fourth of the num­
ber, and is frequently found tobealmost whollywanting. In
well-educated females, it is generally one of their largest
organs. In some villages and religioussocieties, this organ
is found, with scarcely an exception, very large, and in
others, again, where conscientious scruples are little attended
to, it is found to befar lessprominent, or even quite deficient.
The same holds true among those who pursue different call­
ings and professions; and, among the latter, observation has
convinced me, that, in general, those who have long prac­
tised law, have no more conscien. than they need—very lit­
tle more, indeed, than those who have long gambled for office
at the fashionable game of party politicks, whilst combat, is
' very large.—The chapter on the increase of the organs by
exercise, presentsthis matter in itstrue light. See p. 365-370.
It is, nevertheless, true, that when oxie has ven. large, and
another has it small, the latter cannot worship God with
all theYervour and the heart-felt devotion ofthe former: nor
is this required of him; for, “of him to whom much is giv­
en, much will be required.” But more uponthis point, ¡re-
sently.
If an individual wish to reduce the size of anv given
organ or organs, let him cease to exercise the corresponding
faculties, and it will bedone. Letthesailor or the blacksmith
swing up, in a sling, his hand or his arm, which he has
made large and strong by exercise, and it will soon become
Digitized by L.ooQle
990 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED
smaller, and its strength will be diminished. So, if one
cease to exercise a given organ by ceasing to exercise its
corresponding faculty, that organ will become smaller, and,
in all probability, the pressure of the atmosphere upon the
scull, will diminish the protuberance.—See note to p. 24.,
and also p. 23. For farther particulars concerning the in­
crease and decrease of the organs by exercise, see p. 365.
Hence it follows, that one is culpable, not for the excess or
deficiency of his phrenological organs, but for the excess or
the deficiency of the corresponding propensities, and, conse­
quently, for the over indulgence or the neglect of these facul­
ties. And since the organs grow by exercise, and are the
effects, rather than the causes, of theexercise of their corres­
ponding faculties and propensities, it is a logical induction to
infer, that an individual is no more guilty for having depra­
ved propensities which are well nigh ungovernable, and,
withthem,the phrenologicalorgans proportionallydeveloped,
than he would be forhaving these samedepraved propensities
without the corresponding organs. So far as phrenology,
per se, isconcerned, he isleftjustas freetoact without organs
as with them—as free to cultivate one organ, or class of or­
gans, as another; and perfectly free to cultivate any organ to
any desirable extent. What greater freedom can the most
strenuous advocate of free moral agency and human account­
ability desire, than that which declares that every man, in a.
great measure, forms his own character, determines his own
conduct,and is endowed with the power ofgiving, toa greater
or less extent, just such a shape to his head as he chooses?
And thus, sir, if your main objectionhasnotbeenfairly consi­
dered and fu lly answered, either my logical acumen or my
vanity greatly deceives me. *
But, perhaps, to all this you will object in language simi­
lar to the following: “ Did not the Creator originally im­
part to one individual a large endowment of some faculties,
and a small endowmentof others; and, to another, the oppo­
site of this, so that the exercise of the respective fa cu b
ties in that proportion in which they were originally given,
ultimately causes one to possess a large development of the
organ of benev., for example, and a small development of
destruct., and another, the opposite organization ? Did not
God originally impart to the pirate Gibbs, for instance, a
large amount of the facultiesofdestruct. andamat.? to How­
ard, of benev. ? to Webster, of caus. and compar. ? so that
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
«ach became what he was in character, and had the corres­
pondent development of organs,in consequence ofexercising
the faculties in that proportion in which they were original­
ly distributed t The objection is thus,thrown a little far­
ther back, but is not yet fully met.”
How much more ofthe facultiesofdestruct. and amat. was
originally imparted to Gibbs, of benev. to Howard, of caus.
and compar. to Webster, &c. than is given to ordinary men,
it is not necessary for phrenology to decide, in^as much as
it does not profess to explain the origin ofthe mental facul­
ties, but their manifestation only.
The existence among men of a very great diversity of
character—a diversity which embraces every observable
•hade ofcharacter, and variety oftalents and disposition—is
ah absolute matter offact. Now, thisdiversity must, ofneces­
sity,be,atleast,inpart,inherentinourverynature, and caused
by the original impress of that divine hand which created us,
or else it must be wholly the product of circumstances. If
you admit, that, in the creation of man, God makes this dif­
ference, you urge your objection, in reality, againstthe works
of the Deity, rather than against phrenology. You must*
therefore, settle your difficulty with your Maker—as a phre­
nologist, I have nothing to do with it But if, to avoid this
difficulty, you contend that this diversityofcharacter and tal­
ents isthe productofcircumstances,inadmittingthatthe Deity
rules, you must, of course, allow thatthese circumstances are,
at least,partially under his control; sothat, turn it whichever
way you will, you must, at last, admit, that this difference
among men-this endless diversityofcharacter-isthe product,
at least, in part, of divine agency—that either ip the original
formation ofthe faculties, or by the forceof circumstances,—
by means of phrenological organs, or in some other way,
God gives more or less bias to the human character. Hence,
to urge this objection against phrenology, or against God’s
making this difference by means of,or, rather, in accordance
with, certain developments of the brain, is virtually to urge
it against his making it by any means whatsoever; that is,
against his making it at all; which is nothing less than
finding fault with the government of God. Carry up your
objection, then, boldly and impiously, to the throne of the
great Jehovah, and enter your complaint against his divine
will and government, and not drag it in against phrenology,,
FATALISM. 39i
Digitized by Google
392 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED
which has bo more to do with it than it has with God's
causing “one star to differ from another star in glory.”
Now, if this diversity of character were wholly the pro­
duct of circumstances, upon the principle that “ like causes
always produce like effects,” it isplain, that similar circum­
stances would always produce similar characters, and oppo­
site circumstances, opposite characters. Yet the reverse of
this is very oftentrue; for, how often do similar circumstan­
ces produce directly opposite characters, and opposite cir­
cumstances, similar characters f What circumstances made
Patrick Henry so splendid an orator ? Benjamin West so
distinguished a painter? Daniel Webster so profound a rea-
soncr ? Washington Irving so finished and classical a wri­
ter? or George Washington unrivalled as a general? Why
do the samecircumstances often havedirectly opposite effects
upon different individuals ? Evidently because their natures
so widely differ. Hence, it follows, that this diversity of
human character, is caused, in part,at least, by divine agen­
cy, and that the seeds of it are, in a measure, innate. So
far then as the Deity has any hand at all in causing this di­
versity of character and talents which are found to exist
among men, whether it is effected directly bya compulsory,
divine agency, through the force of circumstances, or by
means of phrenological organs—for, as regards the argu­
ment, it matters not which—so far, I say,asthe D eity causes
this diversity of character, divine agency supersedes and li­
mits human agency. So far, butnofarther—-for this reason,
and for no other—-does your objection have any force at alL
In other words, just so far as God rules, and determines
human character, your objection has weight, but no far­
ther. By urging this objection against phrenology, then,
you, in fact, “charge God foolishly,” and may settle your
dispute with the Supreme Ruler of the universe. But mark
this point distinctly, that your objection lies with as much
force against the Deity’s makingthis difference by means of
any other circumstances,as it doesagainst his making it by
means of the developments of the brain. The feet is, that
it lies against the D eittf s m aking a n y difference among
men—against his g ivin g a n y bias, or any direction what-
ever, to human character—against his having any influence
at all among men—or, what is precisely the same thing»
against his ruling.
But suppose that the Creator should cast all minds in tht
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
Fatalism . 393
same mould, and allow no difference to result from circum­
stances, but dispose all to think alike, see alike, feel alike,
talk alike, and act alike, and what a monotonous scene-—
what a stagnant sea this theatre of human life would be!
Surely, that must be a most unenviable world which pre­
sents no variety or diversity of pursuits, tastes, talents, and
character; but just such a world as the principles of your
objection carried out, would form.
That there should be an original difference among men,
is perfectly coincident with the whole system of nature. Do
we ever see any two faces, or even features, precisely alike?
Search throughout the immense herbage of the field, or the
foliage of the forest, scan the bowels of the earth and the
“ starry heavens,” in short, pervade all nature, and can you
find two trees, two flowers, two leaves, two stones, or even
two grains of sand precisely alike ? Do not diversity and
variety characterize the whole of God’s works? Why, then,
should man form an exception? His diversified features,
talents, inclinations, passions, feelings, gifts, and graces,
evince an original and a constitutional difference, as well as
similarity. As well might one, then, pretend to deny the
existence of the universe, as of this difference in the mental
characters and capacities of men; andas well might he pre­
tend that every man is his own creator, as that this diversity
of mental qualities is wholly the product of education and
circumstances.
Now, since these diversified traits of character and quali­
ties of mind are not wholly caused by the personal volition
of the individual in whom they exist, they must be necessa­
ry, and can be neither self-induced, nor wholly avoided. If
you please to call thifc fatalism, be it so, and we must all be
either fatalists or atheists. Phrenology aside, how can you
yourself come to a different conclusion? And will you
raise the hue and cry of fatalism against phrenology, be­
cause, forsooth, it teaches the sovereignty o f God, and be­
cause it does not explain what has never yet been explained,
namely, how human and divine agency are consistent with
each other? Even Revelation itself, while it states thefa ct,
docs not pretend to explain it. When this objection is urged
against the Bible, you reply, that “secret things belong to
God,” and still cling to the doctrine; but when you findthis
self-same doctrine in phrenology, you cry out, “fatalism!”
*infidelity1”
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
m OBJECTIONS ANexit:REP,
Let us dow look this whole question directly h>the &ee*
and join issue with it. Let us suppose that a mother is pos­
sessed of a very large organ of cautious., and but asmall
organ ofcombat.,,whilst her husband has moderate cautious.,
and large firm, and combat.: let both be suddenly awaked
by a cry of fire, and instantly, on awaking, find themselves
in the very jaws of the devouring element. The frightened
mother, seizes her infant, throws it out of a third-story win­
dow,and follows it herself,and therebykills her helpless babe,
and loses her own life, whilst the cool and intrepid husband,
by suddenly summoningto his aid his reason and his courage,
speedily, but safely, descends with a remaining child in his
arms. Now,underthese circum3tances,the timidmothercould
no more avoid being distracted by fear, than she could help
seeing the fire which was blazing fiercely before her, or ex­
periencing excruciating pain when coming in direct contact
with it. Her actions were the natural and the unavoidable
result of her excited cautious- She could, therefore, no
more avoid or prevent her fears, and her consequent rash
deeds, than she could avoid being hungry when deprived of
food, or thirsty when deprived ofdrink, since both classes of
feelings, when thus excited, are equally spontaneous. Her
natural timidity, in common with her existence, with her fac­
ulties of seeing, hearing, &c., might have been, in part, ori­
ginally derived from her parents, and,also, have been greatly
increased by their telling her frightful stories, andfrequently
punishing her by shutting her up in a dark place, and then
causing her toapprehend somethingdreadful, &c.; but be the
cause what it may, the feeling, in this case, is absolutely un­
avoidable.
Again, when benev. is constitutionally very large, and also
called into frequent exercise, a benevolent character is the
necessary result. In like manner, wrhen combat, and de-
struct. are naturally very strong, and also frequently excited
by the passionate or the irritating treatment ofthe parent or
teacher, the necessary consequencewill be,that these passions
may besuddenly excited by a supposed insult; and before the
individual reflectsat all, he clenches hisfist,anddealsout ven­
geance, ifnotdeath,upon theobjectofhiswnrath. But,although
the deed isinvoluntary, yet, isthere nogu ilt 4 Most certain­
ly there is. In what, then, does itconsist? Notsomuch in the
deed itself as in the state of excited feeling in which it o rig i­
nated. A love of ardent spirits, for example, is frequently
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
« a t a l i s m .
ao strong as to set reason, duty, self-respect, and all evil con­
sequences at defiance; nay, as to be irresistible. Is, then,
the wretched subject of this depraved, but resistless, appetite,
g u ilty for indulging it, and for the crimes consequent upon
such indulgence? Unquestionably; and the more guilty
the stronger the passion, at least, so far as the passion is self-
induced. But, on the supposition that his parents, in part,
cultivated in him this depraved appetite, they are culpable
and responsible for just so much ofthe propensity, and ofthe
crimes resulting from it, as they caused.
But to illustrate this last point still farther, let us suppose
an individual, by recklessly sporting in the river above the
falls of Niagara, to bedrawn unawares intothe resistless cur­
rent, and, nolens volens, carried down the roaring rapids, and
dashed into the foaming abyss below: is he therefore guilty
for this deed? Certainly he is. What! guilty, when he could
no more resist the mighty current, or save himself from the
catastrophe, than he could chain down the raging billows of
the sea, or pluck up the Andes from their firm foundation ?
To be sure he is. But wherein lies his guilt? N ot in go­
in g down the stream, but in gettin g into it—not in being
overcome by the irresistible power ofthe element, but in ex­
posing himself to such a fate. Had his parents caused his
death by putting him into a frail bark whilst he was yet a
child, and by sending it adrift, they, of course, would have
been answerable for his fate: then, why is not he guilty for
needlessly and rashly exposing himselfto such a fate?
The inference from the foregoing premises, is this: in the
firstplace,that the timid motherisguiltyin destroying herself
and her child, rather for her cultivated, tim idity of dispo­
sition, than for the act ofthrowing her child and herself out
of the window—that the behevolent man is commendable,
rather on account of his general benevolent feeling, than for
any particular acts ofbenevolence—that the revengeful man
is culpable m ainly for the inordinate strength of his revenge­
ful propensity, which renders him so liable to commit acts
ofviolence and outrage—that the drunkard is responsible,
not for having aliment., but for exercising it in an inordinate
love of liquor, &c.;—and, in the second place, that, as faras
these several states of mind, or, indeed, any state of mind
which manifests itselfin depraved action, are either volunta­
ry, or self induced, or capable of being avoided by any act
ofpersonal volition,so far the guilt falls upon thedoer ofthe
305
Digitized by Google
sinful deed; but that, as far as they are broughtupon him by
necessity, or by the agency ofothers, sofar these agents are
responsible for these statesof mind, and for the effects which
they produce. It is further evident,that, by creating us with
any given amount of the organ of cautious., God does not
thereby make us so timid as to deprive us.of reason,* by
giving us aliment, in any given degree, he does not necessa­
rily oblige us to become gluttons or drunkards; but that he
made man, in common with all his other works, perfect, and
exalted him far above all other creatures in this lower world;
and yet, he caused one man to differ from Another, thereby
qualifying one man for one station or sphere of action, and
another for another sphere. Hence, so far from being re­
sponsible for the wicked actions ofmen, the Deity has done
all thatinfinite wisdom and infinitegoodness, aided by infinite
power, could do, to guard them against committing sin, and
to make them holy, and thereby happy. As a phrenologist,
then, I distinctly admit, and maintain, thesetwo propositions:
first, that the very same act of creative power which calls
man into existence, also gives to every individual a constitu­
tional, a stii generis, character, which innate, mental quali­
ties form the basis of all his feelings, capabilities, actions,
and mental operations, and that this creative act constitutes
the leading agency or influence which the Deity exerts over
the character of men; and, secondly, that there are causes
within the reach of human agency—causes within the reach
of parents, ofteachers, of every human being as soon as he
is capable of exercising moral actions and moral feelings,
which, when applied to the natural characteTisticks of man,
exert an important influence upon all the feelings, capabili­
ties, actions, and mental operations of every member of the
human family, and that the product of this influence consti­
tutes the human agency and accountability which our feel­
ings assure us exist.
Hence, then, according to phrenology, divine agency and
human agency both cooperate in bringing about every
transaction and every mental operation of every individual
of the human race—divine agency in creating the primary
faculties from which these actions originate, and in distribu­
ting them in certain degrees, and human agency in modify­
ing these innate faculties, and in directing them to different
objects, according as education, external circumstances, and
personal volition, maydetermine.
806 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED. . x
Digitized by L.ooQle
FATALISM. 397
Now, I contend, that this is the only view of free agency
which does not, of necessity, involve in it palpable absurdi­
ty. Unless we adopt this, or a similar, view of i\iQ,union
and co-operation of human and divine agency, we must
necessarily subscribe to one of these two doctrines, namely,
either that all the motives, feelings, and actions of men are
the offspring exclusively of human agency, or that they are
entirely controlled by divine agency; but the first of these
doctrines, as already shown, would be downright atheism,
and the last, rank fatalism . Touching your objection, then,
you must necessarily choose whether you will be an atheist,
a fa ta list, or a phrenologist.
In the cultivation of the ground, and in all we have to do
with physical nature, we take precisely the same views of
this subject as are here taken, and our practice accords with
them. God has created the earth, the sun, and the atmos
phere, vapour,heat, &c., and in their application tothe growth
of vegetation, &c., he varies them according to certain fixed
laws. So far, then, divine agency causes the growth ofthe
vegetable creation ; and yet, in regard to the products of a
given piece of ground, it is often left for human agency to
decide, at least, in part, what they shall be—whether it shall
bring forth wheat, or corn, or grass, or garden vegetables;
and, moreover,thedegree ofperfection towhich their growth
shall be carried.
This view of free agency presented by phrenology, then,
is in perfect keeping with those common-sense notions of
tilling the earth which are founded upon the universal ex­
perience of mankind. Human agency greatly modifies the
action ofthose causes which quicken vegetation, by making
one field bring forth one kind of produce, and an adjoining
field, which is subject to the same divide agency, bring
forth substances of a very different kind.
How this subject of free agency has appeared to you, or
to others, I will not pretend to decide; but, for my single
self, I can truly say, that it was always obscured tomy men­
tal vision by an impenetrably dark cloud of mist in which
it was shrouded by the theorizing of the metaphysicians
and the speculating of the theologians, until phrenology
kindly stepped in and dispersed this cloud by the influence
of its lucid rays: and if phrenology does not demonstrate
the precise point of union between these twoagencies, itdoes,
atleast, show thatsuch a union is both rational andnecessary.
Digitized by Google
OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
F o u r t h l y ,— Bat the follow ing I conceive to b e the
roost conclusive, as it is the final, reply to your objection.
It is a fundamental doctrine in phrenology, thatyEVERY f a c ­
u l t y IS ORIGINALLY GOOD, and that THE LEG ITIM A TE EX ­
ERCISE o f e v e r y f a c u l t y , is v ir t u o u s . T h e plain
inference from these propositions, is, then, that a ll v ice or
sin must proceed, either from the excessive exercise, or the
perversion, of good faculties. To illustrate this point, let
us take, for example, the crime of murder, which is, doubt­
less, the worst manifestation of depravity that human nature
presents. Now, when analyzed, the faculty of destruct.,
from which this crime mainly proceeds, is found to be sim ply
a propensity to destroy and inflict pain. See p. 82. W ith­
out such a faculty, it is obvious, that man could not maintain
even his existence, much less promote his comfort and hap­
piness, in this world, for he could not subdue the earth and
cultivate it— he could not destroy those noxious plants, ven­
omous reptiles, and savage beasts which would successfully
contend for dominion with him, and, at once, conquer and
exterminate him. Without this faculty, he could not puijish
the guilty, or make him self feared; but would be so tame
and powerless as to be trampled upon with impunity, and be
constantly liable to suffering and death. W hen, therefore,
the faculty of destruct. is directed to the proper and legitim ate
objects of its function— when it is exercised in the defence
of our natural rights— in the promotion of good order, and
the protection of good government— in the defence of the
weak and oppressed against the encroachments of the power­
ful. &c., its exercise is not only necessary, but praiseworthy
and virtuous, as much so, in fact, as that of benev. or con-
scien., or any other faculty; but when it oversteps these
bounds, and breaks forth in acts of violence, cruelty, rage,
malice, revenge, murder, &c., its exercise becomes perverted,
and is most odious and sinful.*
' Ono of the strongest arguments of Dr. John Mason Good against phrenology,
is, that, “if these faculties are originally good, the more powerful they are the bet­
ter ; whereas, their very powerful actions, which, according to this doctrine,
ought to be regarded as their greatest natural perfection, are usually found to
manifest themselves in depraved and vicious feelings and conduct” The objec­
tion ofthe learned Doctor is not without foundation; for phrenologists have given
him just cause to bring it forward, by having turned their attention mainly to ex­
treme developments ofthe organsand manifestations of the faculties, and dj hav­
ing neglected to describe their medium developments. This errour they have
fallen into bynot doingwhat many find faultwith the authors^br doings via^ prac­
tisinga general examination ofheads.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
FATALISM. 399
But to show more clearly, that the proper exercise ofde­
struct. is virtuous and commendable, let us suppose that you
hear ofa starving family,situated in the midstof a deep and
gloomy forest, which forest is infested with gangs of robbers
and beastsof prey. Your benev. prompts you to relievethe
distresses of this family by carrying them food; but you
know that, unless you go well armed, the undertaking will
be hazardous and liable to failure, nay, that your life will be
the forfeit. To prevent such a disaster, therefore, you arm
yourself, if you please, with a sword. Now, be your sword
ever so sharp, or the arm that wields it, ever so powerful,
and it does not follow, that you are necessarily obliged to
thrust it into every*man you may chance to meet. No:
your duty is to let your sword rest in its scabbard, until
yourself or your food is attacked, and then the longer, the
stronger, and the sharper your sword, and the more vigor­
ous and powerful the arm that wields it in slaying those
savage beasts or barbarous men that would interrupt you in
the exercise of humanity and benevolence, the better. So
with your faculty of destructfor be itever so active or pow­
erful, you are notthereby obliged to vent the malignant man­
ifestation of it upon every innocent man you meet. No;
but let it remain quiet, until the cause of justice, of huma­
nity, of benevolence, of virtue, demands its exercise, and
then the more energetick and powerful the faculty, the
better.
In fact, the peace and good order ofsociety absolutely de­
mand that the violator of its just laws, should be punished;
but punishment to the guilty cannot be awarded, except
through the instrumentality of destruct. Was there ever a
more virtuous and praiseworthy deed—one more just in it­
self, beneficial in its results, or acceptable in the sight of
Heaven, than that ofour patriotick and heroick ancestors in
drawing the sword of liberty, and letting it fall so heavily
upon our country’s foesin the days ofthe Revolution ? Yet,
in this noble and glorious act, destruct shone most conspic­
uously, though directed, it is true, by conscien., firm., in-
hab., philopro., adhes., self-e., caus., &c.
It is chiefly by the proper exercise of destruct., aided by
amat., that thehusbanaor the father protects his wife or his
daughter from brutal violence ; and yet, the perverted exer­
cise of these same passions, is mainly concerned in commit­
ting brutal violence upon woman. Nay, the vigorous exer­
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
400 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
cise of destruct. is manifested even in the divine character
and government; and for man to be just or benevolent
without the aid of this faculty, joined with combat., is often
impossible. There is, in short, just as much virtue in pun­
ishing the guilty, as in relieving the distressed; or, in other
words, in the legitimate exercise ofdestruct., as in that of be-
nev.; and, vice versa, as much iniquity in the improper ex­
ercise of benev., as in that ofdestruct. But it would be un-
courteous to my readers to multiply examples to prove the
correctness of a principle which is as clear to the eye of
reason, as the existence ofthe sun isto the natural eye, name­
ly, that virtue and vice, as connected with destruct., combat,
amat., or any other faculty of the mind, consist, not a t a ll in
the nature of these faculties, nor in the degree of strength
with which they ajre manifested, but solely in the objects to
which they are directed, and in the character of their mani­
festation.
This same general principle is applicable, and with equal
force, to the operations of any and of all the other faculties.
We might take, for example, acquis., which gives a desire
to accumulate property. Without it, who would cultivate
the earth, promote manufactures and the arts, engage in com­
merce, or even provide for the wants of the morrow ? It is
by the exercise of this faculty m ainly, that most ofthe com­
forts, as well as the luxuries, of life are brought within our
reach; for, after all, it is more from instinct, than reason,
that mankind are taught to lay up property: and, without
the aid of wealth, how could we educate our children, sup­
ply the wants of the poor and needy, relieve the sufferings
ofthe distressed, propagate religion, advance science and the
arts, and carry forward those ten thousand schemes for pro­
moting the happiness ofour fellow-beings which are dictated
by philanthropick enterprise? Yet, this same propensity,
which, in its proper manifestation, is productive of so benefi­
cial results, in its perverted exercise, leads to covetousness,
cheating, extortion, and even stealing. The manifestations
of combat., secret., aliment., amat., self-e., &c., are likewise
either good or bad, virtuous or vicious, commendable or rep­
rehensible, not from the nature of these faculties, but ac­
cording to the time, place*character, objects, and direction of
their manifestations.
Thus we perceive, not only that every faculty ofthe mind
is originally good, and that one is as good and useful as an
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
FATALISM. 401
other, but, also, that any faculty is capable of being turned
either to a good or a bad account, according as it is trained
and directed by the personal volition and external circum­
stances of the individual: and hence we infer the personal
responsibility ofevery man. Every faculty, whether small,
moderate, or large, in every state and stage of its develop­
ment, is liable to be perverted, in which case its manifesta­
tion becomes immoral, or it may be exercised in harmony
with the laws ofnature and of moral justice, in which case
its manifestation will be virtuous.
The reasoning faculties, for instance, in all stages oftheir
development, are capable of being employed to prove and
propagate either truth or errour, either morality or immoral­
ity, either Christianity or infidelity—either in the ennobling
pursuits of science and philosophy, or in the grovelling pur­
suit ofdevising ways and means by which to gratify an in­
ordinate love of gain, or the sensual or baser appetites and
passions. Ven. may be equally exercised either in a bigot­
ed and blind adoration of a pagan idol, or in a pure and de-
▼ out worship ofJehovah. Benev. is capable of being exer­
cised either in relieving the distresses of those who are the
proper objects of charity, or in screening from justice those
who have violatedmoral law, and ought, therefore, to bepun­
ished. Conscien., even, mrsy be so perverted astosanction the
most revoltingand horrid crimes, such as confining innocent
victims in dungeons, burning them at the stake, and torturing
prisonerstaken in war. In proofofthis, look atthe inhuman
cruelties exercised byone religious sect upon another intimes
ofpersecution. Look atthe bloody butcheriesand savage cru:
elties of the various Indian tribes, which are often practised
upon innocent women and children. But are we to suppose
that they who practise such barbarities, are destitute of con­
scien. 1 Certainly not. We know that the former often be­
lieve that, in committing such atrocities, they are “doing
God serviceand phrenologically we know, too, that the
latter possess a higher development of conscien. than civili­
zed, and even Christianized, men. As a proofofthis, in his
perfectly savage state, we know that the Indian will rarely,
if ever, tell afalsehood.
Although the acts resulting from the proper manifestation
of the propensities, are not of so ennobling and elevated a
character as those arising from the legitimate exercise ofthe
intellectual and moral faculties, yet, they are altogether as
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
402 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
virtuous. Nay, more. A good endowment of the propen­
sities is indispensably requisite to a virtuous character ; for,
withoutsuch an endowment, and with ever so high a develop­
ment of the intellectual and moral faculties, one would be
too inefficient and tootame to fulfil all the duties of a benev­
olent, an intellectual, or a moral character: his moral light
would be “put under a bushel.” The feeling called love,
flows mainly from adhes.; and adhes. is one of the propen­
sities : yet, who ever supposed, that what we so much ad­
mire, and still more strongly eulogize, as “ the pure and ho­
ly loye of woman,” is a less virtuous feeling than her benev.
or hei*devotion? And, on the other hand, would we not con­
sider the absenceofthis feelingin her, as greata defect as the
absence of conscien., ofbenev., or of good sense? Hence, it
is evident, that, by giving us aliment., God does not compel
us tobecome gluttons and drunkards, but that'he has merci­
fully bestowed upon us this faculty for the legitimate pur­
pose of enabling us to sustain our bodies by the use of food:
that, by giving us acquis, he does not compel us to rob and
steal; bv giving us destruct., he does not oblige us to mur­
der, and so on; but, that all our faculties are primarily
good, and their legitimate exercise, virtuous.
If, then, these faculties are, in their nature, good, and their
proper exercise, virtuous, it follows, that it is our duty to ex­
ercise them ; and, ofcourse, that we render ourselves culpa­
ble by neglecting their proper exercise. If, for instance, we
neglect to perform an act of humanity, or of charity, when
we have the means todo it, and clearly see it to be our duty,
we are as much to blame as for committinga positive act of
injustice or violence upon a fellow-creature.
As it is essential to the argument, and, also, a cardinal
doctrine in phrenological theology, I may be pardoned for
repeating the proposition under consideration,namely, That
all the faculties of the mind are primarily good, and their
legitimate exercise, not only sinless, but even virtuous ; and,
therefore, that all sin and all guilt have their origin, not
in the n a t u r e of thefaculties themselves, but in the charac­
ter of their manifestations, or in their immoral exercise.
According to this view of the subject, then, God nev­
er made a bad head, or, he never created a man who must
necessarily be a sinner. In fact, to deny this, would be
* charging God foolishly,” and denouncing his “ greatest
Digitized by Google
FATALISM.
work” as imperfect; and, moreover, making him out to be
“ the author of sin.”
“ What! then,” I conceiveyou are ready to exclaim, “does
phrenology deny the doctrine of original sin, and of innate
depravity, as derived from our first parents, and, consequent­
ly, of the redemption of the human race by the death and
suffering ofthe Redeemer?” If, by “innatedepravity, and
original sin,” you mean a constitutional depravityofthe pri­
mary faculties of man’s mind, as I understand phrenology,
it, in common with every principle of moral justice, ofdivine
perfection, and of common sense, does deny such a dogma.
In their nature, organization, and adaptation, the flowers of
the field, the plants ofthe valley, the beasts of the forest, the
fish of the sea, the fowls ofthe air, the sun in the firmament,
the stars in the sky, nay, all the works of God, proclaim that
the perfection of the Great Architect is stamped upon every
thing which he has made. And no less so does the corpo­
real part ofman; and, since the all-wise Creator has impart­
ed perfection to the organization andadaptation of our phys­
ical frame, can we, for a moment, suppose that he created
the immortal mind less perfect ? Analogy teaches us, that,
in as much as animate nature excels, in the wisdom and per­
fection of its constitution and formation, inanimate matter—
in as much as man excels all the other works of God in his
lower creation, and in as much as mind excels matter, in just
the same degree are we to expect superiour perfection in the
constitutional formation of the human mind. To maintain
that the nature of man’s mind is depraved in its primary
faculties, and that all his sinfulness and guilt have their ori­
gin in this depravity, is to destroy, at once, his individual
responsibility, and charge upon God all the sin, and all the
consequent misery, that have taken, or will take, place either
in this world or in a future state of being: and this isfatal­
ism in all its horrid deformity—a doctrine no less revolting
than blasphemous.
That human depravity, in some form, and in a greater or
less degree, is coextensive with the existence of the human
race, or, at least, as far back as the fall of Adam, is a fact
which I readily admit. If you ask, “What, then, are the
origin and procuring cause ofthis depravity—since you de­
ny that they are in the original constitution of the human
mind?” I answer, that, if phrenology cannot fully explain
the whole matter, it can, at least, point out one ofthe causes
Digitized by GooQle
404 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
ofthisdepravity; and that one is found in the depravedphys­
iology of mankind, proceeding from a perverted education
and training of both their physical and their mental powers.
Most ofthe diseases, sickness, and pain we suffer, both men­
tal and corporeal, also proceed from the same cause, and not
from any imperfection in the organization and original
constitution of our bodies—not from any necessary or legiti­
mate action of our corporeal organs, but from our violating
the natural and wholesomelaws ofour physical nature. And
this perversion ofthe laws of our physical, intellectual, and
moral nature, has a direct influence upon our offsprings so
that the child often inherits from his parents, to a greater or
less extent, not only his physical, but his moral and intel­
lectual, character, just as he frequently inherits the healthoi.
the diseases of his parents and ancestors. Hence we per­
ceive, that God is no more the cause of our bodily infirmi­
ties, pain, sickness, and suffering, than he is of our mental
weaknesses and aberrations; for, in the formation and con­
struction of our corporeal frame, a wisdom and perfection
are displayed which show that he has done all that could
have been done to prevent disease and suffering.*
To depraved human nature, the doctrine of constitutional
and original depravity, seems to be immensely gratifying,
since it answers as a sort of “scape goat,” upon the head of
which to pile up all our sins. But I do not see any thing
in phrenology which teaches that, in our day, man is born
with a different or less perfect moral or physical nature than
that given to Adam when he came fromthe hand of his Ma­
ker, excepting always the degeneration and variation which
our species, or different portions ofit, have undergone by the
perversion of the laws of our physical nature already allu­
ded to: and I do not see how it could have been otherwise
without destroying man’s personal responsibility: and if we
take from him his personal responsibility, he is no longer
accountable for hisconduct. But that man is personally res­
ponsible, and, therefore, accountable,, “ for the deeds doneiu
the body,” phrenologyclearlydemonstrates. I have already
shown, that manbecomes guilty by perverting his orignally
*The writer designs shortly to prepare for the press, s work upon the connex­
ion between man’s physiology and his mental powers, and kindred subjects^ en
bracing, among other things, an ioquiry into the causes of the greatevils in sees*.
ty as it is, and suggesting remedies for these evils as pointed out by phrenology
rhe work will form a kind ofsequelto the present volume.
Digitized by L.ooQle
FATALISM. 405
good faculties—that he often prostitutes his reason,his moral
feeling, and all the noblest powers ofhis nature, to the base
an4 grovelling gratification of his depraved and sensual de­
sires and appetites, whereas, were he to act in perfect har­
mony >vith the laws of his nature—that is, his undegenera­
ted nature, or such a corporeal and mental organization and
constitution as God originally gave to our first parents—he
would be virtuous and happy.
According to this view of the subject, then, so far from de­
stroying the free agency of man, and diminishing his res­
ponsibility and his guilt for indulging in sinful feelings and
wicked deeds, phrenology establishes the former, and great­
ly enhances the latter. It not only, does not make God the
author of sin, but it charges home upon the sinner himself
the whole weight of his guilt, with a power and with a force
that can scarcely be derived from any other source.
Hence, so far from leading to fatalism, phrenology fur­
nishes to the Christian, even, an argument against those
who urge against his religion this objection. Let us sup­
pose, for instance, the following discussion to take place
between a Christian and an infidel. The infidel brings for­
ward a most depraved character, say the pirate Gibbs, who
not only murdered thirty human beings with his own hand,
but also caused the death of four hundred more, and, more­
over, ravished, and then inhumanly butchered, many help­
less and imploring females that fell into his power; and, to
fill up the measure of his depravity, to the day of his execu­
tion, seemed to delight in recounting these revolting barbar­
ities ; and then says to the Christian, 44According to your
doctrines, did not Godcreate this abominably wicked wretch,
and that, too, with all his wicked propensities?” “ Yes,”
must be the reply. 4
1And, according to your Bible, does not
God eternally punish him for these very crimes which are
the legitimate offspring of his originally depraved nature?”
44He certainly does,” says the Christian. 4
4That is, accord­
ing to your creed,” says the infidel, 44God first creates men
with depraved natures, and then punishes them for being
what he made them 1 Surely, the licentious Jupiter ofthe
heathen is far preferable to the unjust and tyrannical God
ofthe Christian. Away with a doctrine and a Deity so ab­
horrent'to every principle of common sense and common
justice.”
If the Christian appeal to the authority of Remaxioii to
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
help him out of the difficulty, the infidel resists the appeal
by rejecting the Bible as an absurd fable; and let the Chris­
tian exert his utmost ingenuity, and turn whichever way he
will, he still findsit impossibleentirely towrench this weapon
from the hand of his antagonist, But here phrenology steps
in,and completely shields Christianity fromthe blows ofinfi­
delity, by saying, “ It is true that God gave to Gibbs very
large destruct., acquis., amat., &c.; but so far as the Deityis
concerned, thesefaculties were created pure and sinless; and,
had they been properly cultivated and directed, their mani­
festations would have been virtuous, and productive of good
to mankind. But by means ofthe power delegated to Gibbs,
instead ofexerting these faculties in accordance with the be­
nevolent designs of his Maker, in the promotion of the wel­
fare and happiness of his fellow men, he basely prostituted
them to the worst of purposes. But he had no right thus
to prostitute and pervert these originally good faculties;
and, for doing this, he alone is guilty, and, of course, pun­
ishable.”
And now, sir, either my reasoning faculties, or my self-
complacency, greatly deceive me, if these four arguments,
either singly or conjointly, do not fairly meet, and fully an­
swer, your main objection to phrenology, namely—the first
by throwing the objection back upon yourselfto answer as
bearing against matters offact as you admit them to exist—
the second, by showing, that, so far as the objection lies
against phrenology, it also lies against God’s imparting <mjr
mental qualities to man—the third, by proving that the ex­
ercise of the various faculties, causes the exercise, and con­
sequent enlargement,oftheir respective organs, and that the
deficiency of any ofthe organs is mainly owing to neglect
in the exercise oftheir respective faculties—and, the fourth,
by showing that the nature and constitution of all the facul­
ties, are originally good, and their legitimate manifestation,
virtuous, and, consequently, thatvice and immorality origin­
ate in theperverted exercise ofthese good faculties.
Here, then, I dismiss this subject, and, at the same time,
take leave ofseveral other points ofyour article; for, if tAis
your great gun can be completely silenced, and even turn­
ed against fatalism, surely, all the small arms which can
be brought to bear upon phrenology, can be spiked without
difficulty.
406 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
Digitized by Google
MATERIALISM. 40T
MATERIALISM.
Another impdrtant objection to phrenology, and one very
closely related to that just answered, is, that this science es-
tablishes the doctrine of materialism. It is urged that, by
making mind so much dependant upon, andunder the influ­
ence of organized matter, and by showing that, from one
end ofthe animal kingdom to the other, (see pp. 7 to 10,and
26 to 34,) the mental and corporeal manifestationsare recip•
rocal, phrenology proves a connexion between mind and
matter, so direct and intimate, that it can be explained only
by admitting, that mind is nothing more or less than a con­
dition, or property, or emanation ofmatter peculiarly organ­
ized and endowed with vitality ; and, consequently, that when
vitality ceases in such matter, the mind that inhabited it, also
ceases to exist, and, therefore, cannot be immortal.
That the sympathy andconnexion between mind and mat­
ter, are very intimate, and that organized matter has a con­
trolling influence upon the manifestations of intellect and
feelings, no one who has investigated the subject, will pre­
sume to deny ; any more than he will that the laws which
govern this sympathy, are universal in their application to
animate beings.
It is a matter of fact, that we know nothing either of the
character or ofthe operations of mind in this world, only as
they are manifested by means of corporeal organs. The
mantled cheek, the lowering brow, the curled lip, the speak­
ing tongue, the sparkling eye, the look ofjoy, of love, ofaf­
fection, ofsorrow, ofsuffering, of benignity, of intelligence,
ofindignation,asexpressedin thecountenance,all bespeak the
inward workings ofthe mind, whose mandatethey obey: and,
if we derange or disturb the corporeal organization through
which the mind manifests itself, we equallyderange ordisturb
the mind itself. Let the bodybevigorous and active,and the
mind will be equallyso; whereas, ifweakness, or lassitude, or
nervous affection prostrate the corporeal powers, the mental
powers will proportionally sink. If inflammation seize the
brain, the mind is excited to raging madness ; but when the
brain isagain restored to healthy action, the healthy action of
the mind is also restored. In short, if the corporeal functions
are deranged in any way, the mental functions are equally
disturbed: seep. 18. Hunger and many kinds of disease
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
create peevishnessand irascibility; asurfeit clogs the wheels
ofthought and feeling; dyspepsy produces melancholy and
gloomy forebodings; a draught of ardent spirit stimulates
the feelings, and sometimes the intellect; unrequited love
causes the mind to droop, and frequently the body to pine
away; and a few grains ofarsenick or opium are sufficient
to drive both reason and feeling fromtheir throne. Facts of
this kind might be multiplied ad libitum; but these are
doubtless sufficient to illustrate the sympathy and connexion
which exist between mind and matter.
Now, if the doctrine of materialism follows from the fact
that organized matter has a controlling influence over mind,
it must be true%and we may as well refuse to believe what
we constantly see andfeel, astodisbelievethis doctrine. The
wholequestion, then, seems toresolve itself intothis—wheth­
er or not the connexion of mind and matter necessarily in­
volves the doctrine of materialism.
But, decide this question as we may, this much is certain,
that phrenology is no more liable to the charge of material­
ism, than isevery system both of physicks and metaphysicki
extant. If phrenology is chargeable with materialism, the
science of anatomy, of medicine, of physiology, of natural
and moral philosophy, and, in short, of every thing which
treats ofthe human bodyor mind, is equallychargeable with
supporting the same doctrine; for they, one and all, equally
with phrenology, admit, and even demonstrate, this same
great principle of the intimate connexion and relation be­
tween the physical organization and the manifestations of
thought ana feeling. Nay, even the Bible itself is charge­
able with this heresy of materialism. But, if there is any
more materialism in the proposition, that one portion of the
brain is employed to perform one class of mental functions,
and another portion, another class, than there is in the propo­
sition, that the whole brain is brought into action by every
operation of the mind, then, indeed, is phrenology guilty,
but not otherwise.
All systems of physiology support the doctrine, that the
brain is the corporeal instrument by means of which the
mind performs its various functions; and this doctrine con­
stitutes the data, and the only data, upon which the charge
of materialism, as urged against phrenology, is founded.
Hence, so far asthe objection has any force, it virtually lies
against the existenceof anyconnexion between, not only the
408 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
Digitized by Google
MATBlHALTSif. 409
brain and the operations of the mind, but between any por­
tions'of matter whatever and the mind. But it has already
been shown, that we know nothing of the existence or ope­
rations of mind in this life, as a separate entity, or a thing
that exists or acts apart from organized or animate matter;
but of its existence and operation in connexion with organi­
zed and animate matter, we do know, just as well as know
that matter itself exists.
It is not, however, incumbent on me here to discuss the
question ofmaterialism in the abstract, but merely as appli­
cable to phrenology. Since, therefore, I have clearly proved
that this doctrine is not applicable to phrenology as such—
that it has no more to do with the principles of this science
than it has with those of any and every other science which
treats of the physiology and mental economy of man, I con­
ceive that I have fairly met, and fully answered, this ob­
jection.
But this objection is not urged by infidelity against the
Christian religion so much as it is by professing Christians
against phrenology. They argue that “Materialism is false,
because it iscontrarytodivine Revelation; but that phrenol­
ogy leads to materialism; and, therefore, phrenology must
be untrue.” But let those who are zealous for the truth of
the Christian religion, beware, lest, by proving materialism
upon phrenology, they thereby prove it upon themselves,
and thus fall into the snare which they had set for phrenolo­
gists. They infer that, if phrenology is true, it necessarily
implies the truth of the doctrine of materialism, and, conse­
quently, overthrows Christianity. Now, if, after all, phre-
nology should become (as it unquestionably will) fully es­
tablished, materialists and infidels will prove their doctrines
by the very arguments furnished by Christians themselves.
They will reason thus: “According to your own argu
ments, if phrenology is true, it establishes the truth of mate­
rialism, infidelity, fatalism, &c.: phrenology is demonstrably
true ; .therefore the doctrines ofmaterialism, infidelity, fetal-
ism, &c., are undeniable.” And thus, even though their ar­
guments are sophistical, Christians will be “ condemned out
oftheir own mouth,” or else driven tothe disagreeable alter­
native of admitting that their arguments are fallacious, and
the offspring ofreligious bigotry.
Itis an old trick of agitators and bigots to raise the hue
and*cryof infidelity, atheism, materialism, heresy,andso
18
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
410 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
forth, against new doctrines in religion, and new discoveries
in philosophy and science. Notonly wereAnaxagoras, Soc­
rates, Galileo, Columbus, Locke, and a hostof other worthies,
the effulgenceof whose genius haslighted up the intellectual
and moral world, obliged to contend with the same kind of
opposition, but the great Reformers, and even our Saviour
and St Paul, were assailed with the same sort of weapons.
But I am not so easily alarmed as tobe driven from mypur­
pose by a little dust kicked up by those who are too bigoted
to lookat a new science lest itsdoctrines corrupttheir morals,
nor so easily persuaded as to yield to an objection which I
find to be directly at war withfacts. I shall, therefore, de­
liberately walk forward in the tram of facts which light up
my way, fearless ofthe goal to which they may conduct me.
In reference to the doctrine ofmaterialism, I have onlyto
add, that phrenology itself furnishes evidence sufficient to
satisfy my mind, that it is utterly false. This evidence is
chieflyfurnished by the faculties,of ven. and hope. I believe
that the legitimate and leading function of the first, is to
teach us toworship a God, and that this proves the existence
of a Deity, and, consequently, of a being whose mind, acts
independently of organized matter; and I believe that the
leading office of the last, is to point out to us a hereafter by
leading us to hope for it and tp expect it, and, consequently,
that it proves the existence of a future state of being. But
these points will be presented more at large in the chapter
upon the Theology ofphrenology.
REGENERATION, OR A CHANGE OF HEART.
*
As the objection, that the principles of phrenology are op­
posed to what many believe to be the Scripture doctrine of
a change ofheart, is tolerably well stated in the following
letter, published inthe Morning Star, we allow Dr. Mallison,
as the representative of all who urge this objection against
phrenology, to state'it in their behalf.
«New York, Oct. 18,1836.
“ To the Messrs. Fowlers.
« Sirs,—At your next lecture, I wish you to explain, according
to the principles of phrenology, how any material or radical change
in a man’s moral character, disposition, or conduct, can take place*
For example: we frequentlysee the infidel and irreligious man, sud­
denly ana radically change his sentiments and practices in life, and
become pious, reverential, and devotional. Now, according to t t e
Digitized by LooQle
A CHANGE OF HEART. 411
principles of your system, it seems to follow, that, in reality, there
are no such changes, and that they are wholly imaginary orhypocrit­
ical, or else, that there must bea corresponding change of the phren­
ological organs, namely, a sudden diminution of one class of organs,
and an equally sudden enlargement of another class, whose functions
are directly opposite.
“ That men do often experience these changes, is evident to every
one; but that the bumps of the cranium, are subject to such sudden
growth and depression, is certainly most doubtful: and, if these or­
gans do not correspond with a man’s changes in conduct and dispo­
sition, how can they have any reciprocal relation to his true char­
acter 1 D. J. MALLISON, M. D.”
Admitting this doctrine of a change of character and con­
duct called regeneration, as believed in and taught by ortho­
dox Christians, to be correct, and the first question to be, con­
sidered in relation to its bearings upon the doctrines ofphre­
nology, is, in what does this change consist ? From even &
superficial view of the subject, it is evident, that it does not
consist either in a substitution of one primary mental faculty
for an other opposite faculty, or in a change of the original
nature and character ofthe faculties, or of their proportion­
al strength; for, ifthe subjectofthischangepossessesastrong
and original intellect beforeconversion, he has just as strong
and as original an intellect after conversion; but, if he is
weak-minded before, he still remains so. Even his leading
peculiarities of mind, thought, and feeling, remain unaltered.
If, before conversion, he possesses a remarkably retentive
memory of incidents, of faces, of dates, of principles, and of
places, his memory of these things is equally tenacious after­
wards ; but, if his memory ofany of these things isweak be­
fore, it is equally soafterwards. If, before, he is remarkable
for his mechanical, or any other, talents, he is uniformly
found to possess the very same talents, and in the same de­
gree, afterwards. If he is possessed of a superiour musical
talent before he meets with this change, he possesses the
very same talent, and in the same degree of excellence, after
this event.
In what, then, does this change consist? Simply and
solely in a change of the direction of these respective facul­
ties, or of the objects upon which they are exercised, and not
in a change of their nature and character, or of their rela­
tive power. For example; if the person converted, has a
great talent for musick, the effect of his conversion is to
change the direction ofthis faculty: thus, beforeconversion,
it was chiefly exercised in singing songs, lively airs, &c.f
Digitized by Google
412 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
whereas, itis now chieflyexercised upon piecesofsacred mu-
sick. If,beforeconversion,his reasoning powersare great,but
exercised principally upon political, philosophical, or scien-
tifick subjects, they are afterwards equally powerful, but di­
rected mainly to religious and theological subjects. Benev.,
which was before manifested in relieving the physical suf­
fering, and promoting the temporal wants and earthly hap*
piness, of his fellow-men, is now directed to a different and
far more elevated object, namely, the salvation and eternal
happiness of his fellow-men. And so of every other feeling,
faculty, and talent, ofthe individual.
JNow, in as much as the relative power of the faculties
themselves, remains unchanged, though directed to different
objects, there is no call for an alteration in the proportionate
size of the organs, and, of course, no need ofa sudden dimi­
nution of one class of organs, and an equally sudden enlarge­
ment of another class. But, if this change of heart did ne­
cessarily involve a change ofthe nature and the constitution
of the primary mental powers, the inevitable conclusion
would be, that these faculties were not well-made at the first,
and, therefore, require remodelling, or, rather, re-creating,
which would necessarily imply imperfection on the part of
the Creator; and, not only so, but this radical change in the
nature of the faculties themselves, would certainly destroy
the identity ofthe person converted, thus making him, not a
new, but another, being.
Again, if this conversion were tochangethe relative power
of the primary faculties, the same inferences hold good.
Whilst, then, the nature of the faculties themselves, remains
unchanged, and their proportionate strength the same as it
was before, the amount of it is, that divine grace simply
gives to the faculties as they originally or previously were,
a new direction.
An illustration will, perhaps, make the point clear. A
steamboat, which is made perfectand beautiful throughout, is
beingpropelled downa river,bythepowerofsteam. The rud­
der is turned, and the sameboat isnowpropelled up the river,
bythesamepower, and by meansofthe sameapparatus. Baft
the boat is not changed, or transformed; for it is, by sup­
position, madeperfect; nor isthenature of thesteamchanged,
nor the character or proportionate strength ofany one thing
about the boat. This is not necessary. The boat is perfect.
Its direction, merely, is altered; and that by means of the
Digitized by L.ooQle
A GRANGE OF HEART. 413
co-operation of the power of the boat and that of her com­
mander. So it is in the matter of conversion. The sinner
is sailing smoothly down the rapid current of sin and worldly
pleasure, towards the opening gulf ofendless perdition. Di­
vine agency arrests him, and changes, not the nature of the
thinkingfaculties themselves, but merely the direction ofthe
thoughts produced—not the nature ofthe propelling powers
themselves, but the drift and current of thefeelings thatfiow
from those powers, by setting before them a different object
to stimulate and occupy those powers.
The analogy of the steamboat, does not, of course, hold
good throughout ; for man is a moral agent, the steamboat,
a mere machine. It, however, holds good as far as I have
occasion to apply it. Men are depraved, not because they
have depraved faculties, but because they make a depraved
use of goodfaculties: see last proposition under thé last ob­
jection, p. 403.
You allude to a “sudden;” change. So far as the change
is sudden, it is not a change, either of faculties, or of their
r e l a t i v e strength. This change of the proportionate
strength ofthe facultiesis always gradual. The man whose
besetting sin before conversion, was an inordinate craving
for money, has the same craving afterwards, with this differ­
ence merely, that, by the grace given him at conversion, it
is restrained from breaking out intoovert acts of wickedness.
The same is true of the passionate man, of the ambitious
man, &c. Paul speaks of carrying on a “warfare against
the lusts of the flesh;” and the Bible everywhere holds out
the idea that victory over our depraved propensities, must be
gradual, and can be obtained only by long-continued and la­
borious effort—by watching and praying, and severe self-
denial. Christian experience is compared to the “rising
light, which,” from a feeble gleaming, “groweth brighter
and brighter till the perfect day”—“to a grain of mustard
seed, which,” from the smallest of seeds, “becomes a great
tree;” plainly implying, that, as far as the relative strength
of thèfaculties is changed, so far the change is gradual.
I would ask any true Christian, if he is not obliged to
hold in with a strong rein, those propensities that predomi­
nated before his conversionj and, if a long time is not requi­
site effectually to subdue “those sins that most easily beset
him,” so that their instinctive promptings are not plainly
felt By the time, then, that he has subdued his propen­
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
sities, or altered the relative strength of his faculties the
organs will have time toadjust themselves accordingly: see
pp. 365, to 370.
If I mistake not, then, I have clearly shown, that the doc*
trines and principles of phrenology, are not at all inconsist­
ent with the doctrine of regeneration; and, also, that phre­
nology enables us to tell what kind of Christians particular
individuals are.
PHRENOLOGICAL FLATTERY.
It is farther objected to phrenology, or, rather, to phreno­
logical deductions ofcharacter,that “ The science asemploy­
ed in practice, generally makes men better than they really
are; and thus flatters their vanity and self-conceit, and, con­
sequently, tends to diminish their efforts for improvement”
By the application of phrenological principles, we are en­
abled to ascertain and describe only the natural talents, feel­
ings, dispositions, and capabilities of individuals, including,
also, the modifications of these feelings and talents as far as
cultivation has produced a change in their external signs or
organs ; but a correct description drawn from such data, can­
not properly be calledflattery. To make it flattery, the de­
scription should give toindividualsa greater amount oftalent,
of intellect, or of moral feeling, than they really possess ; but
this itdoes not do, except in the hands of unskilful or dis­
honest practitioners, for whose acts phrenology cannot be
justly held responsible. *
It is freely admitted, however, that phrenology often as­
cribes to individuals a far greater amount of certain talents,
propensities, or feelings, than they think they possess, or than
they have manifested. But, in doing this, phrenology \s not
at fault; for the fact in the case not unfrequently happens to
be, that, from the force ofcircumstances, defects in education,
or from some other cause, these qualities of mind, which
really exist as described, have not been manifested in
such a manner as to display their real strength and power,
but have remained neglected and unknown, and, consequent­
ly, unappreciated. The diamond, however, is the same,
Mwhether it sparkle in the diadem of royalty, or slumber on
thecross ofthe pilgrim.” Who does not know, that the dis­
tinctions and honours obtained in human life, morefrequently
depend uponadventitious and favourable circumstances, than
upon native genius and real worth? Let an individualwho
OBJECTION« ANSWERED.
Digitized by Google
PHRENOLOGICAL FLATTERY. 415
is possessed of only respectable talents, be thrown into cir­
cumstances which shall give these talents high cultivation
and polish, and he will often cut a far greater figure in the
world than another who possesses talents of the highest or­
der, but who is chained down in obscurityby the force of un­
favourable circumstances. Hence we might expect, that, if
phrenology reveals the true character, it will often be con­
demned for overrating, and, at other times, for underrating,
the capabilities and talentsof individuals.
But one prominent ground of the objection under consid­
eration, is, that men do not know themselves; that is, they
frequently entertain very erroneous notions concerning their
own talents, disposition, and capabilities, especially with re­
ference to some particular traits of character; and, what
makes the point still worse for phrenology to settle in a sat­
isfactory manner to all the parties that may be concerned or
interested in an examination, is, not merely that the individ­
ual examined may have wrong notions of many of his own
mental qualities, but that his friends and neighbours even,
frequently entertain views on these same points, widely dif­
ferent from his own, and widely different from each other.
So that, there is nothing more common than for the decisions
of phrenology upon particular traits of character, to be oppo­
sed by the parties concerned, to be disputed upon among
themselves, and, finally, after investigation, to be conclusively
established in favour of phrenology: see pp. 79, 263.
The causes of this ignorance of human character which
so extensively prevails in the world, are numerous. I shall
allude to only two or three of them. The first is, that all
our systems of mental philosophy heretofore published, are
so obscure, contradictory, and defective, as to render it im­
possible for any one, not excepting even their very authors,
to obtain from them clear views of their own mental facul­
ties—to learn from them what constitute the various facul­
ties of the human mind, their analysis, different functions,
and modes of operation.
Secondly, we live in a highly artificial state ofsociety
particularly we who profess to be highly civilized. In so­
ciety as it is now constituted, the great strife seems tobe,not
to improve, but to conceal and pervert, nature; so that men
(and especially women) are little more what they seemto bo,
than artificial fruit is like real fruit. The theatre ofhuman
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
416 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
life has become a masquerade, where eachattempts toacthis
part in disguise.
To illustrate this point, let us suppose that a very upright
and conscientious man engages in business, in the mercan­
tile line, if you please. He proceeds, for a while, todeal in
the most honest and honourable manner, but directly finds
that he is surrounded by those who employ “the tricks of
trade,” and begins to think that, unless he fall in with their
usages, he will be ruined in his business. He then stops a
moment to reason with his conscience—and more especially
with his acquis.; and he finds that it is an almost universal
{>racticeto recommend a bad article as a good one, (particu-
arly among the retailers,) and to lie it on to the customer;
also, to take advantage ofthe ignorance of the customer, by
selling him an article for fifty or a hundred per cent more
thanit is reallyworth; andtopractise athousand other dirty
tricks with impunity. His conscience loudly ringsthe alarm,
and tells him it is wicked, it is base, it is mean. But the
consideration of gain, the universality of the practice, and
what he considers the necessity of the case, at length getthe
upper hands, and so far stifle the warnings of conscien., that
he gradually slides into this slimy and hell-ripening course
Now, at such a stageof his career, phrenology would be apt
to attribute to him a higher degree of conscien. than he dis­
plays in his practice; for, as yet, the organ has not had time
to diminish in proportion to the letting down of the man’s
character.—This case may serve to illustrate ten thousand
others, not only with respect to the organ of conscien., but
also in regard to all the other organs.
On the other hand, the phrenologist may sometimes be
found fault with for describing an individual’s character as
worse than it is, when, in reality, the only reason that he has
not displayed his vicious propensities in their full force, is,
they have been restrained merely by surrounding circum
stances, or, perhaps, the witness who bears testimony in the
case, is not so intimately acquainted with the individual as to
know his real character. Hence, I have invariably found,
that, the judgment, &c., being equal, the more intimate the
acquaintance between the person examined and him who
bears testimony to the correctness of the examination, the
more perfectly will he agreewith the phrenological deecrip»
turn given.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
Again, it is often urged, that, “ If an individual is deficient
in intellect and moral feeling, or if his organization is such
as to expose him to temptation ofany sort, he should be kept
in ignorance ofthe fact.” Now, if ignorance ofthe phreno­
logical development of amat., secret., combat., &c., would
prevent the manifestation of these propensities in excess, ig­
norance might be advisable; or, if ignorance of a want of
intellect would compensate for its deficiency, phrenology
would do harm; but, since a deficiency of intellect, and an
inordinate development ofany of the propensities, will most
assuredly manifest themselves, the sooner the individual is
made acquainted with the fact, the better: see p. 262.
PHRENOLOGY NOT REDUCIBLE TO PRACTICE.
Another objection, which is, perhaps, more generally urg­
ed against phrenology than any other, is, that, “Although
the science may be true in its general principles, yet, in its
details, and in its application topractice,and tothe develop­
ment ofthe nicer shadesofcharacter and talent, no reliance
can be placed upon it.”
This objection seems to have arisen out of the circum­
stance, that many obtain a partial knowledge of some of its
leading principles, and, from superficial observation, collect
evidence enough to convince them that theseare true, when,
from aWant of a more extensive and critical knowledge of
the subject, they are not able to go into its details, nor to
make observations that shall clearly prove its correctness in
detecting the nicer shades ofcharacter. But, to the reason­
ing mind, it must appear evident, that the same arguments
and facts which prove the correctness of its general princi­
ples, also prove the correctness ofthese principles when tar­
ried out in detail. Hence, if the truth of its general princi­
ples be admitted, the applicability ofthese principles toprac­
tice in minute detail, follows as a matter of course.
This objection, again, is varied by some who profess tobe­
lieve in what they are pleased to term its most important
and prominent organs, such as firm., benev., caus., &c., but
who disbelieve in the existence of many of the smaller or­
gans, thinking that so great a number of organs as is con­
tained in the phrenological nomenclature, would make the
system ofthe mental faculties too extensive and complex to
be either convenient or true. They say, that the organ of
PHRENOLOGY NOT REDUCIBLE TO PRACTICE. 417
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
418 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
“colour” or of “weight,” for example, is unnecessary; and
that, if phrenologists admit intotheir scheme,these and many
other equally unimportant organs, they are bound to admit
many others not included in their list.
Now, if phrenologists hadformed their system themselves,
by setting down and “mapping out the head into different
portions,” and by locating one organ, or one group of or­
gans, here, and another there, they might have extended or
diminished the number of organs at pleasure; and, of course,
every objector would have beenat liberty tolay their system
upon his iron bed, and, like Procrustes, lop it off, or stretch
it out, just as his fancy or his judgment might dictate. But,
since phrenologists have had no hand in forming their sys­
tem, and, of course, in determining the number of the facul­
ties in the human mind, and of their corresponding organs
in the brain, or in locating them either, but have presented
the whole fhing in just the same form in which they disco­
vered it, they do not hold themselves accountable, either for
the number, size, location, or importance of the respective
organs, but beg leave to refer objectors to the Great Creator
and Contriver of the whole system. True, as discoverers,
they are answerable for the number of organs which they
have admitted into their system; but here they bold, that
they have admitted no more than they have been compelled
to admit on the ground of evidence furnished by an observa­
tion andfacts: see pp. 24, 25, 42, and 250. But the proper
answer to this objection isgiven inthe description ana anal­
ysis of the varioiis faculties of the mind, as given in the pre­
ceding pages ofthis work.
The fact is, this very minuteness.with which phrenology
describes character ana talent in all their details and shades
ofdifference, constitutes its grand and leading excellence—an
excellence which, at once, places this science pre-eminently
above any and all other systems of mental philosophy.
Thousands who have submitted their heads to our examina­
tion, have had their admiration excited to the very utmost,
and been no less astonished than delighted, by this striking
peculiarity in phrenological power. After having submitted
nis head to the manipulations of L. N. Fowler, Professor
Hovey, of Amherst College, expressed his surprise and as­
tonishment many times over, at the wonderful minuteness,
combined with perfect accuracy, with which all the nicer
points andshades of hjs character were described'
♦
Digitized by v^ooole
CONTENTS.
PACO.
Phrenology defined and proved, 7
The Brain the Organ of the
Mind,...................................... ib.
Mind a Pluralityof Faculties, 10
The Brain consists of as many
Organs as the Mind does of
Faculties,................................ 17
The Faculties differin power, 20
Reciprocal proportion between
the strength of the Faculties
and size of the Organs, 21
The Scull shaped to the Brain, 22
Discovery of Phrenology, •••• 24
Facts in proof of#Phrenology, 26
Phrenology of Animals.......... 27
Indian Heads and Sculls,........ 29
African do. do., ........ 31
Phrenological difference of the
Sexes,....................... 32
Phrenology Illustrated,.......... 37
Temperaments,......................... 38
Influence of Education,.......... 40
Shape of the Organs,.............. 41
Test of the Faculties,.............. 42
Classification of do., ••'.......... 43
Affective Feelings, or Facul­
ties, ....................................... 45,56
Animal Propensities,.............. ib.
Domestick do., ....... 46,56
Selfish do., ....... 46,73
Human, Moral, and Religious
Sentiments,...................... 47,102
Selfish do., ......................... 47,103
Moral and Religious do., •* 48,123
Semi-Intellectual do., •••• 48,159
Intellectual Faculties—Percep­
tive do., ........................... 49,177
Kxtemal Senses,............... 49,178
Observing and knowing Facul­
ties,............. 50,183
Semi-Perceptive Faculties, 50,209
Reflective or Reasoning Facul­
ties,....... 61,229
Combinations of the Faculties, 61
1. Amativeness, •.......... 66
2. Philoprogenitiveness,
3. Adhesiveness,............
4. Inhabitiveness,..........
6. Concentrativeness,. .-
t. Vitativeness,..............
6. Combativencss,..........
7. Destructiveness,........
8. Alimentiveness,........
9. Acquisitiveness,........
10. Secretiveness, •..........
11. Cautiousness,.............
12. Approbativeness, ••••
13. Self-Esteem,..............
14. Firmness,..................
15. Conscientiousness,. *•
16. Hope,.........................
17. Marvellousness,........
18. Veneration,................
19. Benevolence,..............
20. Construedveness,••••
21. Ideality,....................
22. Imitation,.............. •
23. Mirthfulness, .......
Schsation or Feeling,*•*•
Sight, ...............................
Hearing,.............................
Taste,..............*.................
Smell,...............................
24. Individuality,..............
25. Form,.........................
26. Size,....................... ..
27. Weight,.......................
28. Colour,.........................
29. Order,.........................
30. Calculation,................
31. Locality,.....................
32. Eventuality,.........
33. Time,...........................
34. Tune,...........................
35. Language,..................
36. Causality,*•••••••.••
37. Comparison...............
Unascertained Organs, **
Grouping of the Organs,•
Directions to Examiners,
rioa
• 61
64
. 68
• ro
• 73
. 76
. 82
• 86
• 88
. 96
• 103
• 107
• 113
. 119
• 124
. 136
. 141
• 147
• 153
• 160
* 166
• 169
• 172
. 178
. 179
• 180
• 182
* ib.
* 183
* 186
* 190
* 192
* 196
* 198
* 202
• 206
• 209
. 214
• 217
• 222
• 231
* 289
* 247
• 260
• 253
Digitized by b o o d l e
420 CONTENTS.
PAGI
Improved Bust,....................... 254
Facts in proof of Phrenology, 256
Examinations in AmhersiCol­
lege—H. W. Beecher,......... ib.
Dr. Humphrey—Examinations
in Lansiogburgh, N. Y., 257, 261
Examinations in Waterford—
Troy, ....................................... 258
Prof. Eaton—Dr.White—Hud­
son, .............................e.......... 259
Examinations in Catskill,---- 262
do. in Amsterdam..... 263
do. in Schenectady, •••• 265
do. in Albany,............ 266
do. in North Adams,« ••• 267
do. in New York,........... 268
do. in Philadelphia,....... 269
do. in Carlisle, Pa.—Wal-
die,......................................... 271
ChiefJustice Gibson,........••• 272
Wm. Roberts—Jas. Cornelius, 273
Rev. Geo. G. Cookman,........ 274
Hon. Judge Lewis,.................. 275
Gen. Anthony,......................... 276
Hon. Mr. McKean—Mr. Pack-
er,........................................... 277
Examinations in Bloomsburg,
Jl a« ) • * • • 4 / Ö
do. in Milton—Gen. Frick, 279
do. in Washington, D. C.—
Dr. Hunt, ......................... 281
Prof. Jones—Dr. Sewall,....... 282
'Woodhouse—Elliott,............. 285
Wise—Ex-president Jackson, 286
Van Buren—Adams,............... 287
Clay—Webster,............... 288, 289
Calhoun— Poindexter—Pres-
ton—R. M, Whitney,............291
Benton— Cass— Woodbury—
Clayton, ............................... 292
Gov. Tyler—Judge White—
Pettigrew—R. M. Johnson—
Gov. King,............................. 293
Walter Jones—M. L. Davis,•• 294
Dr. Gibson,............................... 295
Gen. Duff Greene,.................. 296
Wm. H. Brown,...................... 298
Booth—Weymes,.............. 300, 301
Orff—Dr. Green,.................- 303
Examinations in Baltimore, •• 304
PAGI
Examinations m Richmond
and ? m imouth, Va.,•• 310, 311
Hon. Judge Baker,.................. 312
Mr.Cherrjr. 313
Hon. Geo. W. Lay—Batavia,
N .Y .,..................................... 314
Prattsburg—Rev.H. H. Spaul­
ding:, ................... 317
Examinationsin New York,»• 318
Rev. S*B. Smith,.................... 319
Goold Brown,............................ 320
Chan and Eng, Siamese twins, 322
Benjamin Often,...................... 324
Frances Wright,...................... 326
Phineas Bennet,...................... 329
Wynans,................................... 33!
Robt. L. Stephens—Powers, •• 332
Nathan Ames,.......................... 333
Dr. Griffin,............... 334
Dr. Beecher—Dr. Alexander, 335
Rev. T. Stockton—Ludlow—
Burchard,............................. 336
Rev. C. G. Finney,.................. .338
Rev. O. Dewey,........................ 339
Webb,........................................ 340
Legget—Noah,.......................... 341
Cobb,......................................... 341
Halltck, ................................... 342
Inmates of the House of Ref-
fuge,................................... 343
do. Asylum forthe Blind, •• 344
do. Deaf and Dumb Asy­
lum,................... 344
Table of Developments,.......... 345
Objections to Phrenology an­
swered, ................................. 349
Anatomy of the B rain,.......... 354
Excrescences upon the Scull, 358
Memory,..................................... 360
Increase of the Organs by Ex­
ercise, ....................................... 365
Phrenology independent of
Physiognomy,......................... 370
Answer to Dr. McDowall, ••• 374
Injuries of the Brain, ............ 378
Free Agency and Fatalism, •• 380
Materialism, ••........................... 407
Regeneration.« ••....................... 410
Phrenological Flattery,.......... 414
Practice of Phrenology,.......... 417
Digitized by Google
