{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 2932 2808 1774","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v1_9_december_1882.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V1 December 9 1882","mylang":"de"}
Dec. 9, 1882.] Pre8ident'8 .Addre88. 65·
PROOEEDINGS
OF THE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY ON
Duember 9, 1882.
The second general meeting of the Society was held at the
Rooms of the Medical Society of London, Chandos-street, Oavendish-
square, London, on December 9, 1882. "
HENRY SIDGWICK, EsQ., PRESIDENT, IN THE OHAIR.
The following address was delivered by the President:-
In opening this, the second, meeting of the Society for Psychical
Research, I do not propose to detain you long from the records of work
done and planned which our Oommittees have to lay before you.
Indeed, I should be sorry if it became a general rule for the chairman
at our meetings to occupy any substantial part of our time with such
general observations as must be already familiar to many, and will soon
become trite to all. But our undertaking is so novel, and is still
viewed with so much suspicion and disfavour by important sections of
the educated world, that it Play be well if for a few minutes I take up
'again the line of thought pursued in my address delivered at the last-
meeting; and reply to some of the general criticisms on our aims and
endeavours that have been offered in somewhat greater abundance sinCOl
the publication of our first Proceedings.
When I say that many regard us with disfavour, I do not mean to
imply that the reception of our Proceedings has shewn this to be the
case to a greater extent than I anticipated. Indeed, it has shewn the'
_ very contrary. The number both of adhesions, and of expressions of,
sympathy and approval from persons who do not join us, has gone'
decidedly beyond my expectations. I think the most cautious members
of our Oouncil are convineed that the existence of our Soeiety is firmly
established; that we are to have a fair field, and & fair hearing from at
least 8. considerable portion of the educated world, by whom whatever
work we do will be estimated pn its merits without prejudice; so that
if we fail to attain our ends, it will be due either to our own deficiencies,
or to the peculiar difficulties presented by the matters that we are
trying to investIgate. It is not, therefore, because' we are under any
positive necessity of conciliating hostile critics that I wish to reply to
their objections; but because, from the nature of our undertaking, it is
unportant that the largest possible number of persons should be induced
F
Digitized by Google
66 Second General Meeting. [Dec. 9,
to render us at least incidental and casual aid, and also because in our
attempt to carry the methods of organised ~d systematic investigation
into ground so little trodden by the scientific investigator, I, for one,
feel that we have need of whatever instruction we can derive from any
criticisms or suggestions, whether delivered in a friendly or hostile
spirit.
For my own part, I should have been glad to learn even from those
who treat our endeavours with unmitigated ridicule, holding as I do
with Horace that it is quite possible for a jester to speak a seasonable
truth. But I have found that the very few persons who, in the Press
or in private, have adopted this line of treatment, have been so totally,
so ludicrously, ignorant of the facts from which they tried to cxtract
jokes, so utterly unacquainted with the nature of the evidence that, in
our view, constitutes a primd facie case for serious investigation, that
it has been impossible to derive from their utterances anything but
amusement-which was, no doubt, what they wiShed to furnish,
though in a somewhat different way. If any person who might otherwise
have assisted us could be dissuaded from doing so by the buffoonery of
(e.g.) the Observer, his assistance, I think, could hardly have been
of much value.
A graver attempt at dissuasion, which was made by a more import-
ant organ of opinion, the Pall Mall Gazette, deserves, perhaps, more
serious consideration.
On October 21st that journal, in an article written with a great air
of scientific culture, urged its readers to abstain from inquiring into
ghost stories on account of the dangerous tendency to give them cre-
dence which, on the principles of evolution, must be held to exist in
our brains. Owing to the many generations of our ancestors who
believed in spirits, we retain, it seems, in our nervou.'3 mechanism, "in-
numerable connections of fibres," which will be developed into supersti-
tious beliefs if we give them the slightest opportunity. Our only
chance is to starve these morbid fibres by steadily refusing them the ,--
slightest nutriment in the way of apparent evidence. We must "keep
clear of the pitch" of superstition if we would avoid defilement. " The
scientific attitude can only be maintained by careful abstention from
dangerous trains of thought."
When I read this article I seemed to remember having heard some-
thing very like it many years ago, only not quite in the same language.
And then it flashed across me that this was the exact counterpart of
the dissuasions which certain unwise defenders of religious orthodoxy,
a generation ago, used to urge ~"8.inst the examination of the evidences
of Christianity. They told us that owing to the inherited corruption of
the human heart we had a proneness to wrong belief which could only
be resisted by "steadily neglecting to develope" it; that we must keep
Digitized by Google
1882.] Pl'e8ide1tt's A.ddre.,a. 67
elear of the pitcb of free-thinking if we would avoid defilement; that,
in short, the 'religious "attitude can only be preserved by careful ab-
mention from dangerous trains of thought." And I remembered the
generous and sincere indignation with which our scientific teachers then
repudiated these well-meant warnings, as involving disloyalty to the
ucred cause of truth, and a degrading distrust of the God-given reason
()f man: with what eloquence they urged on us to maintain our privi-
lege of free and unfettered inquiry, to keep our minds impartially open
to all evidence from all sources and follow our reason whitnersoever it
led, at whatever sacrifice of long-cherished conviction; and I thought
how the whirligig of time brings round his revenges and how the new
professor is "but old priest writ large" in a brand-new scientific jargon.
But it would be a pity to dwell too long on these extravagances, for
_1 do not really think that the article I have referred to represents the
"riew of any considerable number of scientific men-indeed, I do not
'Suppose that any instructed physiologist would gravely discuss the
grotesque substitute for original sin which the Pall Mall offers us in the
sha.pe of superstitious connections of brain fibres. What our scientific
()pponents for the most part really mean, however contemptuous their
manner may be, is not that they will refuse to look at any evidence we
bring forward, but that they will require a great deal of very good
-evidence before they will look at it. Now, I think tha.t their demands
in this respect go somewhat beyond the limits of legitimate scientific
caution as regards the investigation of thought-reading, of which we
gave the results in our last Proceedings; am} it might be worth while to
try to convince them of this, if all the evidence attainable bad been
,aIready procured so that the stock could not be increased. But since
we ha.ve no reason to believe thi&-since, on the contrary, I hope we
.shall keep making important additions to the evidence already brought
forward-I do not care to dispute With them as to the exact amount
necessary for reasonable conviction. I quite agree with them that very
_ :st~ng, very overwhelming, proof is wanted to establish scientifically a
lact of sucb tremendous importance as the transmission of ideas from
mind to mind otherwise than by the recognised organs of sense; and if
they will not yield to half-a-dozen decisive experiments by investigators
()f trained intelligence and hitherto unquestioned probity, let us try to
:give them half-a-dozen more recorded by other witnesses; if a dozen
will not do, let us try to give them a score ; if a score will not do, let us
make up the tale to fifty. TIle time and trouble will not He thrown
.away if only we can attain the end.
And here, I think, we may appeal for support to our scientifio
friend~I mean our scientific enemies, whom we hops ro turn into
friends-a.:.aainst another class of objectors who are much less dificult
to convince of the truth of our conclusions, but are benevolently
'II 2
Digitized by Google
68 8econd Gene'ral Meetinu. [Dec. ~~
anxious that we should not waste our time in establishing them.
I meet people in society who talk in this way; they think our evidence
for thought-reading looks very strong, and they do not see why there
should not be brain-waves or something of the kind; indeed, they have
themselves tried some experiments after dinner at country-houses, which
seem to confirm our view; and, as for apparitions at the point of death,
they have always thought there was a case for them. But they do not.
like to see so many superior persons, as they politely say to me, spending
a serious part of their time on such .matters, instead of writing a
commentary on Plato, or studying the habits of beetles, or in some-
other way making a really useful contribution to science or learning.
Now here, as I say, I think we may be content to set one body of our
critics to argue against the other. For our really scientific opponents do
not for a moment dispute the immense importance of our conclusions, if
only they could conceive it possible that they could be established ;---
they would admit that a man would be fortunate indeed who could
hop~, in any department of recognised science, to light upon a new
truth of anything like equal importance.
And there is another objection, again, to the range we h",ve marked
out for our work, which equally misconceives the position we hold in
relation to science. Some not unfriendly critics have given us to under-
stand that if we had only confined ourselves to thought-reading, and~
perhaps, clairvoyance, and similar phenomena of the mesmeric trance,
we might have had their countenance; but that by taking in haunted
houses, spirit-rapping, and so forth, we make ourselves too absurd. And
I quite admit that we might have avoided some ridicule by drawing the
line as they suggest, but we should have avoided it at the expense· of
logic and consistency. Observe that we do not argue that all these
different kinds of alleged phenomena must stand or fall together, and
that by proving the reality of thought-reading we tend to prove the
existence of ghosts. That would be a quite unwarranted inference. But
we say-and I think any competent scientific authority will support Ull
here-that the general presumption of established science against the-
possibility of thought-reading or clairvoyance is so strong that it could
not be much stronger against any other class of alleged facts; and,
therefore, if we judged reasonable to disregard it in the former case, on
account of the strength of the testimony to actual instances of thought..
rea.ding, &c., it would be palpably inconsistent in us to refuse investiga-
tion in other cases in which the quantity and quality of the testimony
are such as would be conclusive in any matter of ordinary el..-perience.
And that the testimony to the so-ealled hauntings of houses is strong
ellough to establish a case for investigation on this principle, appeared
to us incontrovertible. Of the quality of this testimony the report of
our Committee will presently give you a specimen; but we could not.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Pre8ident'8 Addre88. 69
give you an adequate impression of its quantity if this CommitteQ had
the whole time of the meeting at its dispoSal. And I must repeat, we
do not put forward this testimony as amounting to scientific proof, but
merely as justifying investigation.
One word, before I conclude, in reference to an objection to one
part of our investigation, which proceeds from a very different quarter.
There are not a few religious persons who see no reason to doubt the
alleged facts of modern Spiritualism, but who regard any experimental
investigation of them as wrong, because they must be the work either
'Of the devil or of familiar spirits, with whom the Bible forbids us to
have dealings. Now, as regards these Scriptural prohibitions, I think
that there is much force in what has been urged by educated Spiritualists
-viz., that they relate to a state of things in which the industry of
-diviners and soothsayers was in distinct rivalry and antagonism to the
worship of J ehova,h, so that anyone who sought their aid tended to be
drawn away from his allegiance to the true God; and that therefore
such prohibitions should not be considered as directed against the
Spiritualistic seance of the pPesent day, provided it is conducted in
right spirit and manner. But with arguments of this kind we have
here nothing to do; we have not come to the point at which it is
needful to consider them. What we should urge upon our religious
friends is that their scruples have really no place in the present stage
~f our investigation, when the question before us is whether certain
phenomena are to be referred to the agency of Spirits at all, even as a
"working hypothesis." It must be in the interest of religion~ no less
than of science that this point should be somehow settled, because of
the distrust thrown on all human testimony to the marvellous if the
existing mass of evidence to these SpiritUalistic manifestations is simply
neglected; and when we have settled this point, if we should conclude
that we have evidence of the existence and operation of extra-human
intelligences, then the time will come to consider whether the character
- ~f these intelligences is such as to make it de;;irable to have any further
dealings with them. Many of us, I think, will be amply content if we
can only bring this first stage of our investigation to something like a
'satisfactory issue; we do not look further ahead; and we will leave it
for those who may come after to deal with any moral problems that
may possibly arise when this first stage is pasAArl.
Digitized by Google
Second Report on TllOught-Traniference. [Dec. 9,.
L
SECOND REPORT
ON
THOUGHT-TRAN S FERENCE.
By EDMUND GURNEY, M.A., Late Fellow of Trinity College, Oambridge ;
F. W. H. MYERS, M.A., Late Fellow of Trinity ColIege~
Oambridge; and W. F. BARRETT, Professor of Physics in the Royal
College of Science for Ireland, Hon. Secretary.
,. --
The first Report of the Committee on Thought-reading, presented
to the Society on July 17, 1882, established, as we venture to affirm~
the following conclusions:-
(1.) That much of what is popularly known as " Thought-
reading" is in reality due to the interpretation by the so-called
" Reader" of signs, consciously or unconsciously imparted by the
touches, looks, or gestures of those present; and that this is to be
taken as the prirru1, facie explanation, whenever the thing thought of
is, not some visible or audible object, but some action or movement t()
be performed.
(2.) That there does exist a group of phenomena to which the word
"thought-reading," or, as we prefer to call it, thougM-t~an8ference, may
be fairly applied; and which consist in the mental perception, by
certain individuals at certain times, of a word or other object kept
vividly before the mind of another person or persons, without
any transmission of impression through the recognised channels ,of _.
sense.
We have been fortunate enough to obtain a much larger amount of
adhesion to this view than its startling character had permitted us to
expect. Some valuable coadjutors have shewn their approval byjoining
our body; and the wide notice which has been taken of the Research,
in the Press and in society, has started, we trust, many sets of experi-
ments, from which useful results may be fairly anticipated. Oriticism
has, of course, been by no means entirely favourable; and we had had
some idea of prefacing our description of further experiments by
a detailed reply to some of the objections which have been taken to our
former report. But an attentive study of those objections has failed ro
supply us with much controversial matter worthy of occupying the
igitized byGoogl
1882.] Second Report on Thollgltt.T1·amifel·ence. 71
time of the present meeting. They may, we think, be completely
answered from the pages of the Report itself. One lesson, indeed, our
critics have taught us-the importance of the directest statements, and
the largest letters, in a paper containing complex or novel matter,
which is to meet the eye of the ordinary reviewer. For most of the
criticisms on our first Report were founded on the assumption that it
does not contain what, in fact, it does contain-if only the reader will
take the trouble to read it. To take the main point, we based our
conviction of the reality of the phenomena on experiments made wIlen
none ofthe Creery family were cognisant ofthe object selected. A feeling
of courtesy (not, we trust, necessarily unscientific) prevented us from
saying in so many words, "It will thus be seen that our results hold
good, however much the Creery family may have been in le8.0uue to cheat
-lIS "; but a reference to pp. 22 and 23 of our Report will shew that we
said what amounts to precisely the same thing.
'Ve fully agree with our critics that both conscious and unconscious
deception must be most carefully guarded against in all these cases.
We shall continue to take all the precautions which experience suggests,
and clearly to indicate in our Reports that we have taken them. But
we must beg our future reviewers to read those reports with sufficient
care to absolve us from saying in plain words at every turn_CC This we
did to prevent Mr. A. from slily glancing at the card "_cc This
precaution was taken .for fear Miss R should be telling a lie." It is
part of the wisdom of the serpent not to discuss too obtrush-ely the
harmlessness of the dove.
We could easily reply seriatim to all the objections that have been
brought; as, for instance, that we have not stated that silence was
preserved during the experiments, whereas we llave stated it over and
over again; or that the child might have known which card we were
likely to choose, whereas we have stated that the cards were drawn at
random from a full pack. Does the hypothesis, further, include the
- -likelihood of the child's guessing that our minds would be irresistibly
directed to the names Arthur Higgins and Esther Ogle-names which
we trust our free-will enough to believe that we invented in the act
of writing them down f Such detailed refutation, however obvious,
might possibly be worth working through, did the whole case for
thought-reading depend on this one series of experiments. As the case
stands, however, we think we may fairly pass on, without more ado, to
fresh matter.
C_UlBRlDGE EXPERIMENTS.
The chief part of the first Report dealt with a series of
experiments on thought-reading made at Buxton, with the young
daughters of the Rev. A. M. Creery. The Oommittee felt it desirable
Digitized by Google
'.
72 Second Report on Tkougkt-Tra'l'l8ferenoe. [Dec. 9.
that the experiments with this family should be repeated elsewhere j
and accordingly Mr. Myers invited the Committee to meet the Misses
Creery at his house, Leckhampton, Cambridge, during the summer
vacation. In addition to Mr. Myers, Mr. Gurney, and Mr. Barrett,
Mrs. Myers and Miss M. Mason were also present.
The experiments began on July 31st, 1882, and were continued
day by day for ten days. The experiments were made with the three
Miss Creerys, Mary, age 17; Alice, age 15.; Maud, 13; and were
varied in many ways. Sometimes (though in a decided minority .of
cases) the two children who were not guessing knew what we had
selected. The percent&a"ae of success in these cases was not appreciably
above the average percentage of the whole series. Sometimes the
guesser WILS outside a thick closed door, sometimes secluded by a thick
curtain in full observation of one of the Committee. On several--
occasions the children were tested, one by one, alone. Professor Barrett's
results under these conditions, and Miss Mason's under the same
conditions, and with the child outside the door, were decidedly
striking.
The fluctuations in success were very remarkable. Thus, on one day,
August 1, when the guesser was outside the closed door, twenty-seven
trials with cards gave not a single correct result; merely seven partial
successes, as eight of diamonds for seven of diamonds. Whereas on
August 3, apparently under precisely similar cOnditions, the guesser
being outside the closed door and no sound of any kind permitted
within the room where we, who knew the card, sat, ten trials gave two
completely right and two almost right; and on August 4, twenty-five
trials under exactly the same conditions gave two completely right and
two partially right.
Here are the details of the trials on August 3.
Evening ofAugust 3, 1882.
.- -
Miss Mary Creery outside the closed and locked door, and a yard
or two from it, in the company of one of the Committee,
who observed her attentively. A card chosen by one
of the Committee cutting a pack; the fact of the card
being selected indicated to the guesser by a. single tap
on the door. The selected card placed in view of all the
sitters, who kept their minds intently fixed on the name of
the card. After the guesser had named a card loudly enough
to be heard through the door, the words "No" or "Right"
said by one of us; otherwise complete silence preserved.
The cards chosen by us are printed in italics, the guesses in Roman
type. Two guesses only allowed.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Second Report on Thought- TranRjcrellce. 73
1. Three ofhearts.-Ten of spades (No). King of clubs (No).
2. Seven of clubs.-Nine of diamonds (No). Seven of hearts (No).
3. Ten of diamonds.-Queen of spades (No). Ten of diamonds
(Right).
4. .Eight of spades.-King of clubs (No). Ten of spades (No).
5. Nine of hearts.-Nine of clubs (No). Ace of hearts (No).
6. Three of diamonds.-Six of diamonds (No). Ten of diamonds
(No).
7. Knave ofspacles.-King of spades (No). Queen of clubs (No).
8. Six o/spades.-Six of spades (Right).
9. Queen of clubs.-Queen of diamonds (No). Ten of clubs (No).
10. Two of clubs.-Ten of diamonds (No). Ace of diamonds (No).
--, It may be remarked that, in addition to the two completely right
answers in this series, there were several close approximations; and
though the success was very imperfect, we give the result in detail, in
order that those who feel disposed may, !lxperimentally, compare them
with any series determined by chance alone.
Anxiety to secure success on the part of the subject of experiment
is nearly always fatal and always prejudicial, hence the little trepidation
that exists when set trials are made, or trials before strangers, tells
most unfavourably. We found that casual experiments, when the
subject was under no mental restraint, gave very satisfactory results,
albeit on such occasions our precautions to avoid erroneous convictions
were in no way relaxed.
On the morning of August 4, such a casual trial was made, Mrs.
Myers and Professor Barrett only knowing the card selected. Eight
experiments were made; of these, three cards were guessed completely
right-two of them at the first attempt and the third at the second
attempt; in this last case the first guess was the nine of clubs, the second
.. the nine of spades, that being the card chosen. In addition to these the
suit was given rightly three out of the remaining five times, the pips or
court card twice out of the five. It is instructive to note thnt
immediately after this experiment the two younger sisters of the guesser
were called in and allowed to know the card chosen by Mrs. Myers and
Professor Barrett. The results, compared with the preceding, were as
follows:-
Witl,out tl~ sisters knowing. Eight trials. Completely right three
timellt two of them the first try.
With the sisters knowing. Seven trials. Completely right three times,
two of them on the first trial; and to make the coincidences more
curious, the partial successes were identical in number with the previous
trinl.
Digitized by Google
74 Second Report on Thought- Tt'aniference. [Dec. 9,.
Other casual trials were made by single members of the Committee,
he alone knowing the word or card selected.
Thus on August 5 Professor Barrett tried with Miss Creery numbers
of two figures; two attempts were generally allowed to each. The-
following results were obtained. The number chosen is in italics :-
A!lSWBR. ANSWER.
18. 16 and then 18 were said. 48· 48 said at once.
29. 26
"
29
"
31. 71 and then 61.
52. 35
"
25
"
21. 22 said (one trial only given).
33. 53
"
58
"
3fJ. 16
" "
76. 17
"
36
"
28. 28 ,.
"
92. 10
" "
Here out of 11 experiments, 4 were guessed rightly (2 at the first
attempt), and 4 bore some resemblance to the figure chosen, as 25 the - ,-
inversion of 52, the number chosen. This inversion of figures not
infrequently occurred, together with what seemed ljke piecemeal
guessing of the figures, which were, of course, counted as failures, such
as 17 and 36 for 76. These gut'.sseB may be nothing more than pure
coincidence, but taken in conjunction with our similar experience
with cards, they would seem to indicl\te that often mental glimpses
of the thing selected are obtained, more or less faint and fugitive, and
sometimes perverted, as if the fierrures had been seen from their
reflection in a mirror.
A remarkable instance of this partial perception of the thing
selected occurred on August 2. On this occasion all the Committee
were present; two of the sisters of the guesser were also in the room,
and knew the card selected; they were, however, so placed that (though
they were completely in our view) only the tops of their heads were visible
to the guesser, and they remained quite motionless and silent throughout
the experiments. Out of 32 experiments with cards, 5 were guessed
completely right at the first attempt, and in addition 20 were partially
right. Fourteen time8 running the suit was named correctly on the
first trial, and reiterated on the second; not only was no indication
whatever given to shew that the suit was rightly named, but our
impassive countenances and the solitary word "No," failed to displace
from the percipient's mind the correct impression of the suit. The
chances ~<Yainst success in naming the suit rightly in anyone case are
of course 3 to 1, but the chances against being right fourteen times
consecutively are 4,782,969 to one. That is to say, if the words
"clubs," "diamonds," "hearts," and "spades" were written on slips
of card and shaken up in a bag, we might very likely have to try four
or five million times before pulling out fourteen times ill succession the
particular word fixed ,upon.
To vary the wearisome monotony of our experiments, a number of
Digitized by Google
1882.) Second Report Otl Tllought-Traniference. 7f)·
trials were made at Cambridge in piecing together the letters of certain
difficult words fixed upon by us. The letters forming the word,-which
was always some out-of-the-way Latin or botanical term unlikely to be-
divined by mere guesswork,-were selected by us from a box of letters;
the confused heap was then taken to one of the Miss Creerys, who was.
seated in an adjoining room. Some of these trials were very successful,.
but we abandoned this method of experiment as open to the possible
objection that even children might gain some hint of the sequence of'
letters from an instinct of the probabilities of language. We give,
however, a couple of instances out of some twenty similar trials. Here
none but one or two of ourselves knew the word selected; the letters.
were chosen by us and then mixed up ; the guesser, seated with her back
to us, picked out the letters as we silently and successively thought of
--=_them. The figures under the letters indicate the number of trials.
before success was obtained; thus 1 means right on the first trial,
2 right on the second, and so on. No word was spoken except.
" No" and "Yes."
Hedypnois
1 1 1 121 1 1 1
Physa I oi de s
124 1 1 1 141 1 1
Not reckoning these experiments with letters,our experiments during
the meeting of the full Committee at Cambridge may be summed up as.
follows :-
With a full pack of playing cards 248 trials were made with one or·
more of the Committee. Of these, 22 were guessed completely right
on the first trial, and 18 on the second trial, or a total of 40 quite right
out of 248; or one right in not quite 7 experiments. In addition, there
were 69 cases in which the card was guessed in part correctly.
Omitting the second correct guess, the rerults with playing cards sllOw
one quite right in 11 experiments; ifpwre que8swork were tl/,6 explanation,
t/£ere would l£ave been about one right in 52 experiments.
With the exception of the 32 experiments described on page 74•.
and which we deemed so unexceptionable that they were included, all
these experiments ware made when the Miss Creerys were excluded
fx:om a knowledge of the card we had selected.
In like manner, while we alone knew the thing selected, 64 trials.
were made with figures ranging between 10 and 99. Of these, 5 were
correctly named at the first trial, and 6 at the second-a total of 11
right out of 64, or about 1 in 6 ; and in addition, 18 trials were nearly
right. Omitting tl£6 second correct guess, tl/,6 results with figures slww-
one right in not quite 13 experiments; pUll'e guesswork 91JO'1~ld have given.
about one rigltt in 90 experiments.
Digitized by Google
V6 Secolid Report on Tltotlgld-Trallsference. [Dec. 9,
DUBLIN EXPERIHENT8.
Two of the Miss Creerys having lately been on a visit to Dublin,
'One of our number, Professor Barrett, took the opportunity of
continuing the trials, and obtained some interesting results. Here also
·a series of trials were made with the young percipient secluded
'behind an opaque curtain; her sister was allowed to know the card,
<but no audible signal could pass without its instant detection, and visual
;signs were rendered impossible.* In this way 14 trials, niade on
November 27, with a full pack of playing cards, gave 4 completely
right on the first try and 2 on the second try; and in addition, on an
analysis of the results, the name of the suit was found to have been
correctly given five times ~nning, and reiterated on the second trial.
Some experiments made under exactly similar conditions, a day or two ,_-
later, gave 2 successes on the first trial out of a total of 8, and, except
in the last trial, the suit was named correctly each time; here only one
·answer in each case was allowed. These, it is true, are specimens
-of results where the amount of success was above the average; which may
perhaps partly be accounted for bv the sister's assistance in the mental
picturing of the card, or by the percipient's having had a long respite
from the irksome effort of concentration; but doubtless the chief
-element of success in this case was freedom from anxiety, as the
percipient believed they were mere casual experiments, and could not
see that the results were being formally taken down.
Altogether, in Professor Barrett's house 109 trials were made with
-playing cards: of these 19 were right on the first trial, and 7 on the
second, and in addition 2 others were rightly corrected on a third
attempt, though to grant this was against our usual practice. Alto-
'gether this makes 28 completely right out of 109, and 26 other trials
were nearly right. But confining ourselves to the .forst guess, tlte results
-altowed one rigl,t in not quite 6 trials; pure guesswork would givlI
one right in 52 trials. In the large majority of these trials the second
-sister did not know the card selected.
One hundred and forty-three experiments were also made
with words and figures, Professor Barrett only knowing the thing
he had selected. The choice was here more limited, being on an:
average about 1 in 16. Of these 143 experiments, 53 were quite
successful on the first and 23 on the second trial; excluding the second
mal the successful' results were ratlter more tItan 1 in 3; pure cltance
, • Although our previous experience had not much fa.voured the suggestion, it
"\VIIS thought, desirable further to test whether some rapport or sympathetio
relation between the sisters might conduce to the desired result. This explains
'lnya.llowing the other sister to be present and see the card in BOme of these
experiments.-W. F. B.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Second Report on TkOf/Uht- Traniference. 77
'Would Iuwe given 1 in 16. For the purpose of comparison 27
experiments were made, in which the other sister was allowed to be-
present and to know the figure, this being selected as before out of a
set of 16. Out of the 27 experiments, 8 were successful on the first
trial, and 1 on the second; omitting this, we have rather less than
1 in 3 right, showing that the presence and assistance of the sister here
made no appreciable difference in the results.
A consecutive series of 50 experiments were made at one sitting to
test the effect of fatigue. Besides Professor Barrett and Miss Alice
Creery, who was seated with her back to the former, no one else 'Was
present in tlte· room. The· words "hearts," "clubs," "spades," and
" diamonds" were written down by Mr. Barrett, and one of these
words mentally selected by him.* Out ·of the 50 trials, the word
_
--=_selected was named rightly 25 times on the first trial; and a second
trial being allowed (though of no value as a test), the right answer was
then given ten times, making a total of 35 out of 50. The series
occupied about 20 minutes, and the guessing was slower in the latter
half of the time.
During tlte fi1'St 10 minutes.
30 experiments were made.
Of these18were right onthe1st trial
8 " " 2nd trial
or 4 wholly wrong.
During the second 10 minutes.
20 experiments were made.
Of these,! were right on the 1st trial
2 " " 2nd trial
or 11 wholly wrong.
so that about 1 in 7 trials was wliolly wrong in the first half of the
time, and about 1 in 2 was wrong in the second half.
It was also noticed incidentally that the longer word "diamonds"
was guessed with more difficulty than. the remaining monosyllables,
thus-
" Diamonds " was wholly wrong 6 times out of 12.
"Spades"
" " "
2
"
11.
" Hearts"
" " "
3
"
13.
"Clubs"
" " "
4
"
14.
Indications were given in other trials, made with a selection of
monosyllables phonetically uIllike, that certain sounds were guessed
more easily than others; thus the word cups was more frequently wrong
than. tongs or !tats. But a much larger range of experiments is needed
before any generalisation in this direction can be attempted. It will
,.. The percipient, it should be remarked, knew that tbese four words were
lIeleated, a.nd. that she was to guess one of them. We hope tbe reader will credit
us with being fully alive to the fact of tbe necessity of avoiding any movement
which might serve as a hint to the guesser.
Digitized by Google
'78 Second Rep01·t 011 Thougld- Traniference. [Dec. 9,
probably be remarked that the average of success in the above experi-
ments, though far above what chance alone could have supplied, falls
considerably below the level attained in the trials with the same
children which were described in Part I. of our Proceedings; and (as
will have been seen) this decline in power equally showed itself whether
the remaining members of the Creery family were or were not cognisant
·of the object to be guessed. The fact seems to be (and the children
themselves are regretfully conscious of it) that the capacity is gradually
leaving them--a fresh illustration of the fleeting character which seems
to attach to this and other forms of abnormal sensitiveness. En
revanche, we find the capacity present, to a degree admitting of valuable
experiment, in a far larger number of persons th&Il we had at first
supposed. To those who desire to extend our knowledge in this
direction, the following queries suggest lines of useful inquiry :-
1. A natural impressibility being assumed, what are the further
·conditions which determine or modify success 1
2. Is the transferred impl't'.ssion phonetic, or visual, or indeterminate1
3. How far do impressions of drawings or geometrical figures,
inexpressible in descriptive words, admit of being transferred 1
4. Are there any peculiar features in this latu,r form of trans-
ference, such as the inversion or perversion of the object, &c. 1
To the third query we have unexpectedly received from some recent
experiments a most definite and satisfactory answer. With adescription
()f these experiments we must conclude the present report.
BRIGHTON EXPERIMENTS.
In t~e last Report (p. 63) a letter is quoted from Mr. Blackburn, of
Brighton, who is now an associate of our Society, and who is a very pains-
taking and accurate observer, to the effect that he had obtained remark-
.able results in thought-reading, or will-impression, with a Mr. G. .A:
Smith, a young mesmerist living at Brighton.
We entered into correspondence with Mr. BlackbuTIl, who thereupon
took the trouble to send us a paper recording in detail his experiments
with Mr. Smith. These statements appeared to be so carefully made
that two of our number, Mr. Myers and Mr. Gurney (Mr. Barrettbeing
unable to·go at the time), arranged to pay a visit to Brighton personally
to investigate the joint experiments of Mr. Blackburn and Mr. Smith.
These gentlemen most obligingly placed themselves at our service, and a.
series of trials were made in our own lodgings at Brighton. The results
of these trials give us the most important and valuable insight into the
Digitized by Google
I
1882.J Second Report on TIIotegkt-Transjerenee. 79
manner of the mental transfer of a picture which we have yet
obtained.
Mr.,Blackburn has frequently practised thought-reading with Mr.
'Smith; but at the time when our first experiments were made, he had
been accustomed to hold Mr. Smith's hand, or touch his forehead,
with a view to communicating the impression. No unconscious pressure,
however, could have communicated to the subject the definite words and
pictures enumerated below. Though some of the early experiments are
not striking, we prefer to give the whole series, that a due estimate
may be formed of the chances against mere coincidence as an
.explanation.
EXPERIMENTS MADE AT OUR OWN ROOMS, BRIGHTON, DECEMBER 3,
__ ~ _1882. Present: Mr. Edmund Gurney, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr.
Douglas Blackburn, hereafter called B., and Mr. G. A. Smith, hereafter
ealled S.
S. was blindfolded at his own wish to aid in concentration, and
during the experiment sat with his back turned to the experimenters.
B. holds S.'s hand, and asks him to name a colour, written down
by one of us and shown to B. It is needless to say the
strictest silence was preserved during each experiment.*
COLOUR' SELBOTBD.
Expt. l.-!l<>ld .•......................
" 2.-Light wood ...............
" 3.-0rimson •.................
" 4.-Black· .................... .
"
5.-0xford blue .............. .
"
6.-White .................... .
"
7.-0range .....................
"
S.-Black .....................
AlISWlIB.
Gilt, colour of picture frame.
Dark brown, slaty.
Fiery·looking, red.
Dark, black.
Yellow, grey, blue.
Green, white.
Reddish brown.
I am tired, and see nothing.
After a rest numbers were then tried in the same way.
Expt. 9.-
" 10.-
" 11.-
JlUJlBER 8BLIIO'lIUI.
35
48
7
AlISWBB.
34
58
'i
Several trials of colours and numbers were now made with S. and B.
in separate rooms, which failed. Names WAre next tried, written down
and shown to B., who then took S.'s hand as before. There was, as
usual, no sound nor movement of the lips on the part of anyone.
• Nothing was Il&id when S. named the oolour, and where more than one
eolour is mentionec'l he gave the colours 8uocesaively without fresh question.
Digitized by Google
80
E:r:pt. 12.-
" 13.-
.,
"
14.-
15.-
Second Repol't on Thol/gllt-Transference. [Deo.9r
!!AHB CHOSE!!.
Barnard
Bellairs
Johnson
Regent Street
A!lBWBR.
Harland, Barnard.
Humphreys, Ben Nevis,
Benaris.
Jobson, Johnson.
Rembrandt Steeth, Regent.
Street.
Two names were then tried without any contact, as follows :-
E:r:pt. 16.-
" 17.-
!!AMB OROSBN.
Hobhouse
Black
AlII'SWBR.
Hunter.
Drake, Blake:
Contact between S. and B. was now resumed by our express desire,
as the increased effort of concentration, needed when there was no
contact, brought on neuralgia in B.
E:r:pt. 18.-
" 19.-
lII'AlIIB OROSKlil'.
Queen Anne
Wissenschaft
A!lSWBJI.
Queechy, Queen.
~issie, Wisscnaft.
As B. was ignorant of German, he mentally represented the word
" Wissenschaft" in English fashion.
Pains were then experimented on. One of us held a sofa cushion
close before S.'s face, so that vision of anything on the other side of it
was absolutely impossible; (he was also blindfolded); and the other
pinched or otherwise hurt B., who sat opposite S., holding his out-
stretched hand. S. in each case localised the pain in his own person,
after it had been kept up pretty severely upon B.'s person for a time
varying from one to two minutes. .
E:r:pt.20.-
" 21.-
" 22.-
"
23.-
PART RKlII'DERED' PAllll'J'UL.
Left upper arm
Lobe of right ear
Hair on top of head
Left knee
A!lSWBR (by polntlng).
Left upper arm.
Lobe of right ear.
Hair on top of head.
Left knee.
These experiments were very striking in the accuracy of the
indications given by S. This form of transm~ssion of sensations might
with advantage be more widely attempted.
We next drew a series of diagrams of a simple geometrical kind,.
which were placed'behind S., so that B. could see them. S. described
them in each case correctly, except that he generally reyersed them
seeing the upper side of the diagram downward, the right hand sid8
to the left, &c.
Digitized by Google
1882.]
Expt.24.-
-
Expt.25.-
Second Report on Thought-Tramjerence. 81
DEBCRIPTION.-A triangle, with
apex dO'l.IYfI/uJards; and some
loose lines.
DEBCRIPTION.-Triangle in a
circle, and straight line point-
ing dO'Wnwaras.
Expt. 26.-A large arrow was drawn, and variously moved about,
in order to discover whether the reversal of the image was maintained.
In every case it was described as pointing to rigltt when it pointed to
left, downwards when it pointed upwards, and so on.
Expt. 27.
Figttre lteld
upside down
as sl£own.-
DEBCRIPTION.-I see a sort of circle;
a streak, with a lump at the top;
an "Aunt Sally" sort of thing.
<.
Digitized by Google
82 Second Report on Tllougkt-Transference. [Dec. 9,
Next day (December 4) we varied this experiment, thus:-
One of us, completely out of sight of S., drew some figure at random,
the figure being of such a character that its shape could not be easily
conveyed in words; this waS done in order to meet the assumption that
some code-such as· the Morse alphabet-was used by S. and B. The
figure drawn by us was then shewn to B. for a few moments,-S. being
seated all the time with his back to us and blindfolded, in a distant
part of the same room, and subsequently in an adjoining room.
B. looked at the figure drawn; then held S.'s hand for a while; then
released it. After being released, S. (who remained blindfolded) drew the
impression of a figure which he had received. It was generally about
as like the original as a child's blindfold drawing of a pig is like a pig;
tha.t is to say, it was a scrawl, but recognisable as intended to represent
the original figure. In no case was there the smallest possibility tha~
S. could have seen the original figure; and in no case did B. touch S.
even in the slightest manner, while the figure was being drawn.
In one case, No. 6 in the series, the copy may be said to be as exact
as S. could have drawn it blindfold if he had previously seen the
original. The figures were not 'l'61)ersed on this day, as they had been
on the previous one.
The whole series of figures (nine in number) are given in the
accompanying plates, which are engraved from photographic reproduc-
tions, on the wood blocka, of the original drawings. The number
indicates the order in which they were drawn; the original drawing
made by us is shown in the upper half of the plate, its reproduction by
S. on the lower half.
P.S.-Since the foregoing Report was read, the experiments have
been continued and improved, no contact wkat6'Ver being found
necessary between Mr. Blackburn and Mr. Smith. An account of these
experiments, with the accompanying diagrams, will appear in the next
part of our Proceedings, together with the result of numerous experi- ~ !
ments made to ascertain whether a perversion or inversion of the
transferred image occurs in the mind of the percipient. 1'he most
striking and successful results were obtained under conditions still more
stringent than those previously imposed. The burden of explaining
these results rests upon those who deny the possibility of thought-
transference.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Second Report on Thouflht-Traniference. 83
NO. I. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
-,
NO. I. REPRODUCTION.
Digitized by Google
Dec. 9,1882.] Second Report on TltOugltt-Traniference. 85
NO.2. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
-
NO.2. REPRODUOTION.
Digitiz Go Ie
_
....
Digitized by Google
Dec. 9, 1882.] Second Report on Tkortght.T1'anBj"erence. 95
No.7. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
-.
NO.7. REPRODUCTION.
, 2
- 3
4
Digitized by Google
Dec. 9, 1882.] Second Report on Tkought-Traniference. 97
No.8. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
No 9. ORIGINAL DRAWING,
No.8. REPRODUCTION.
No.9. REPRODUCTION.
I
}fro S. touched the spot to which the
atTow points, and said: "There is
something more there, but I cannot
teU what it is."
II
Digitized by COOSIe
-
. ,..
Digitized by Google
. __ --I
1882.1 Preliminary Rep01·t of tltl' "Reickenback ,. Committet'o 99
II.
PRELTIMINARYREPORT
OF THE
"REICHENBACH" COMMITTEE.
By ProfessorW. F. BARRETT, F.RS.E.; ReV..MAXWELLH. CLOSE, M.A.;
ST. GEORGE LANE-Fox; EDMUND GURNEY, M.A.; FREDERIC
W. H. MYERS, M.A ; A. T. MYERS, M.D.; EDWARDR. PEASE;
HENRY N. RIDLEY, M.A., F.L.S.; W. H. STONE, M.A., M.B.;
and WALTER H. COFFIN, Hon. Secretary.
The " Reichenbach" Committee, on account of preliminary
-difficulties in investigatiIig the subject entrusted to them, have to
postpone the publication of results. They hope, however, at the next
meeting to report upon the work which has been begun within the
last few days. Their first object has been to secure suitable rooms and
apparatus, and then proceed to a determination of the reality of the
:simpler phenomena described by .Baron Karl von Reichenbach.
In reply to inquiries as to the exact nature of these, it may be said
that (apart from exceptional difficulties of repetition and questionable
~onditions surrounding them), .the alleged phenomena are in themselves
perfectly definite and simple. According to Baron Reichenbach, certain
persons declared to him that ordinary magnets, crystals, the human
body, and some other substances, were to those persons self-
luminous, presenting singular appearances in the dark, and
~therwise distinguishable by producing a variety of peculiar sensory
impressions, such as anomalous sensations of temperature, bodily pain 01"
pleasure, unusual nervous symptoms, and involuntary muscular action.
-These are generally (but Reichenbach believed not necessarily), accom-
panied by abnormal physiological and mental statcs.
Such is the testimony, as recorded by him, of a numerous but
special class of observers who described in great detail what they
saw or felt. Moreover, by a critical analysis of the evidence, and a
series of tests which, if accurately stated, appear conclusive, Reichenbach
satisfied himself that the phenomena had an objective reality, and the
sensations an external cause in the things to which they were attributed
His further conclusions briefly are, that all bodies whatever, in a certain
degree, and magnetic and regular crystalline bodies in a high degree
produce peculiar effects upon exceptionlll-organisations called "se~sitive.·
Extending his researches into phenomena of surprising complexity, he
. H 2
Digilized by Google
100 Preliminary Report qf tile "Reichenbach" Oommittee. [Dec. 9~
proceeded to speculative inferences from them as to hypothetical fluids
and forces, which do not immediately concern us.
Now without necessarily questioning Reichenbach's good faith,
objectors generally describe his supposed effects as due to im8.0oination,
hysterical illusion, or fraud, and (except as subjective) really impossible
in the nature of things. But such a conclusion cannot be accepted as
final; for even assuming that all attempts to repeat the experiments have
failed, these may not have been sufficiently numerous to imply any
high degree of improbability for the phenomena, in the face of recorded
testimony in their favour. Oonsidering therefore that if real, the pheno-
mena, however rare, should by perseverance still admit of demonstration,
and that for this the appeal lies to experiment of a simple and convincing
kind, the Committee feel the necessity of a strenuous and exhaustive
attempt at their reproduction; and this view is confirmed by the very ~
encour&ooing results which their earliest trials have given. Moreover,
since the researches in question were made and criticised, our
notions are more exact as to the nature of the magnetic field, and its,
relation to moving conductors; so that fresh interpretations of the
discredited phenomena may possibly be forthcoming, and further light
thrown on the alleged relations between physical forces and vital
functions.
The Committee further consider that some allied sU8jects may
usefully claim their attention; as certain obscure photographic pheno-
mena, the neglected study of curious physiological and mental effects
of perfumes, colours, and sounds, and similar matters not before other
Committees of the Society. .
They are collecting references for an index to repetitions and
to criticisms of the experiments of Reichenbach and his followers, and
solicit information from members and others, in the hope of securing a
catalogue of this special literature. Upon the question of an examina-
tion or translation of foreign writings (particularly Italian, German
and Russian), the Committee will be glad of suggestions or help.
-
-
,1882.] First Beport of the Oommittee on Haunted Houses. 101
m.
FIRST REPORT
OF THE
OOMMITTEE ON HA UNTED HOUSES.
~:By W. F. BARRETT; A. P. PERCIVAL KEEP, B.A.; C. C. MASSEY;
HRNSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, M.A.; and FRANK PODMORE, B.A.,
and E. R. PEASE, Hon. Secretaries.
The object of the Committee on Haunted Houses was to investigate
'the phenomena of alleged hauntings whenever a suitable opportunity
·and an adequate prima facie case for inquiry might be presented.
In order to place ourselves in a favourable position both for obtaining
such opportunities and for judging of their value, we ha.ve thought it
·desirable to begin by making a systematic collection, from trustworthy
sources, of evidence bearing upon the subject of our researches. Our
labours in this direction have been fruitful beyond our expectation;
we have obtained a large mass of testimony, which we are endeavouring
"to render as complete as possible by further inquiries. Whenever we
can, we question our witnesses personally, and take down their
testimony from their own lips. In other cases we conduct a cross-
-examination by letter. We have to thank all those who have given us
assistance of this kind for the readiness with which they have
submitted to our method of working, and for the promptness and
·courtesy with which they have replied, in almost every case, to our
-questions.
It seems desirable that we should explain ciearly the standnrd that
we adopt in estimating the claims of any narrative to be included in
·our list. In tb.e first place, we, of course, begin by tracing every story
·.to the fountain-head. But we do not consider that every first-hand
..narration of the appearance of a ghost, even from a thoroughly
trustworthy narrator, gives us adequate reason for attempting further
·investigation. . On the contrary, our general principle is that tILe
'IlJll8upported evidence of a single witness does not constitute sufficient
ground for accepting an apparition as Itaving a primafacie claim to
objective reality. To distinguish any apparition from an ordinary
.:hallucination, such as those recorded by Abercrombie, Brewster,
Carpenter, and others, it must receive some independent evidence to
Digitized by Google
102 Fir8t Report of the Oommittee on Haunted Hou8e8. [Dec. 9
corroborate it. And this corroboration may be of two kinds; we may
have the consentient testimony of several witnesses; or there may be
some point of external lI.oareement and coincidence-unknown, as such
to tlte seer at t1~e time,-(e.g., the periodic appearance on a particular'
anniversary, or the recognition of a peculiar dress), to give to the
vision an objective foundation. As regards the first of these two cases,
there is a distinction to be drawn, which is of the greatest importance,
though commonly neglected. It may often happen that several persons
misinterpret the same phenomenon in the same manner, exemplifying
what is called "collective delusion." But neither science nor the·
common experience of life has produced any undoubted cases analogous
to what, in this department, has been designated "collective hallucina-
tion "-that is, the observation and identical description by several
persons of an appearance having no basis in reality. The only case
known to us which warrants the description of collective hallucination
is the effect sometimes produced by the mesmerist upon his subjects-
a case obviously abnormal.
Perhaps our method of investigation can best be illustrated by a.
few examples of its actual operation.
At the beginning of our researches we received tidings of a ghost
which had been seen within the last few years by an artist at his studio·
in Chelsea. Having obtained an introduction, two of our number
called upon him, and Nceived from him a very striking and eircum-
stantial account of his experiences. The apparition was seen in broad
daylight; it appeared to him, during his three years' tenancy of the·
studio, over a hundred times. He was in his ordinary health throughout
this period, and neither before nor since had ever seen anything of the
kind. The circumstances were such as to preclude all possibility of'
deception, and the figure itself was so distinct and lifelike that he·
succeeded in producing a portrait of it. A rough sketch of this portrait
-which is now in the possession of the Society-represents a young
man of about twenty-five, with the right arm torn away from the
shoulder, and a strangely mournful, pleading expression in the eyes.
Our informant was perfectly clear in his account; and the minute·
examination to which we subjected him failed to disclose any inconsisten-
cies. Further, it was impossible to question his good faith. That he was.
fully convinced he did actually see what he described to us is a matter'
which, in our judgment, does not admit of doubt.
We next proceeded to the house itself, and examined its present
tenant, a respectable mechanic, with a sturdy contempt for ghosts.
He 1l.Ssured us that neither he nor any of his family had been troubled by
anything of the kind. The housekeeper who had kept the studio in
order, and had lived in the house during the artist's tenure of it, and
for some years previously, was also interrogated. She had seen nothing
-
1882.] First Report of tke Oommittee on Haunted Hot/sos. 103
unusual in the house, nor, so far as her knowledge extended, had
anyone else, except Mr. P., our informant. The history of tfJ.e house-
which had been built about forty years ago-a.s narrated to us by Mr.
P.,was confirmed by both these witnesses. A distressing suicidehadtaken
place there, but it did not seem possible to connect this in any way
with the vision seen by l-Ir. P.
On the whole, then, in the entire absence of any corroborative
evidence, such as that indicated above, it seem~ to us that we cannot
reckon this vision as other than a hallucination arising from some
morbid condition of the subject; and the circumstances under which it
was seen to some extentfavour this view.With one exception,itinvariably
appeared to Mr. P. floating in air behind the rails of the staircase, when
he was washing his brushes at the end of his day's work. The sudden
- quickening of the circulation, caused by the change of position and
rapid movement after a period of some hours passed in a sedentary or
stationary posture, would be precisely one of the conditions we should
look for as calculated to develope any latent predisposition to spectral
illusions. There is, however, one circumstance which makes us waver
in our diagnosis of this case. On the occasion above referred to as
exceptional, Mr. P. saw the figure in his studio. He was sitting before
his easel. with his back to the door one winter's morning, when, as he
assured us, he felt that someone was in the room, and, turning round,
he saw the apparition a. few feet from him. This intrusion appears to
have annoyed him, and he uttered an impatient exclamation, upon
which the figure slowly vanished. If ~ir. P.'s remembrance of this
incident is completely accurate, there would certainly seem to be some
degree of justification for his own firm belief in the objective nature of
the phantom; since hallucination which affects sensation in two modes
-what we may call hallucination of two dimensions-is at all events
uncommon. However, in the absence of more conclusive evidence, we
m]lSt be content to regard the presumption in favour of the objective
nature of this apparition as, at least, too weak to afford us ground for
action.
In another instance we have an admirable illustration of the falla-
ciousness of hearsay evidence, where the intermediaries are not experts
in researches of this kind. We lately received an account of a very
remarkable phantasmagoria said to have been witnessed by two gentle-
men in Gloucestershire about fifty years ago. The story, though of a
very startling kind, is not without pal".illel amongst our records; and
our informant had himself heard the story from one of the persons.
concerned. It ran as follows :-Two gentlemen were trayelling together
in a post chaise one Christmas Eve, on some date between 1820 and
1830. The country was not known to them, and the difficulty of
finding their way was increased by a heavy fall of snow. The coachmr,n
Digitized by GoogIe
104 First Rep01·t of tke Oommittee on Haunted Houses. [Dec. 9,
appears to have taken the wrong turning at some cross-roads. and only
discovered his mistake on arriving at a house whose brilliantly lit up
interior betokened that some Christmas festivities were being carried
on withb. The elder of the two gentlemen walked up to the door, and
asked his way of the master of the house, who came out te meet him.
He was courteously invited to enter, and, on his declining, a servant
was sent with him to conduct the chaise into the right road. When, on
his leaving them, one of the occupants of the carriage placed a crown-
piece in the servant's hand, it appeared to them both to fall through
the hand on to the snow, and the man, at the same time, mysteriously
to vanish. On arriving at their destination, the travellers learnt that
no house now stood in the locality, which they described; the house,
which had formerly occupied the spot, had been pulled down after
a terrible crime which had been committed there on Christmas Eve-
many years before. ·On examining the scene of their night's adventure
on the day following, the travellers found in the snow the wheel marks
of their carriage leading up to the spot where this house had once
stood.
We have recently had the opportunity of hearing the narrative of
the surviving witness of this strange scene. The incidents did. in fact,
take place substantially as related. The account, as we had at first
heard it, differed from the true version only by the misrecollection of
one or two particulars, which might well seem trivial and unimportant
to those who regard"ghost stories" as more suited for the amusement of a
firelight hour in the drawing-room or the nursery, than for the subject of
serious and painstaking research. Yet it is just the details. which, when
accura.tely reported, serve to bring this incident back from the realms
-of fairyland almost to the dull level of commonplace reality. For it
would appear that it was not until many year8 ajtenJ)ards that the
travellers-who were schoolboys at the time of the occurrence--learned
that no house had stood for more than half a century on the spot where
they believed themselves to have gone astray, and in that interval we .-
may fairly suppose that their memories would be so blurred as to render
their identification of the locality untrustworthy. The following
extract from a letter of the surviving witness throws much light on.the
other extraordinary features of the narrative: "If I am right in my
recollection, I think my friend made the remark to me, •Didn't you
see the coin go right through his hand and fall to the ground 1' But,
then, you must bear in mind that it was snowing heavily, and a flake
of snow might be taken for a half-crown, or he migl~t have said it in
joke. Then, as to the unusually mpid disappearance of the man. This
may be accottnted for by the density of the falling snow, or his
temporary concealment behind a bush or tree. Strange as the whole
affair appeared to my visiOll that night, I am not inclined to lay much
Digitized by Google
1882.] First Report o/tlle (Jommittee on Hatmted Houses. 105
'stress upon these deceptive phantoms." Elsewhere he writes that he
regards it as " a strange circumstance, some portions of which
were really puzzling to me when I came to think them over in after
.times."
Here again, then, the evidence falls manifestly short of our
requirements.
But in justice to our correspondents we must admit that when we
have tracked a story to its source, we find, perhaps more commonly
than not, that its features, so far from being exaggerated, have been
blunted and toned down by repetition. Amongst educated people, at
.all events, the fear of ridicule is prepotent over even the love of
the marvellous, and the enjoyment of a good story. Most persons,
we ima",oine, would be of one mind with a gentleman, who has
-recently communicated with us, and ",hose story met with so unsympa.-
thetic a reception on its :first recital, that until now he never ventured
-on a second. And when our records have been rigorously tried by the
-canons which we have above indicated, and the largest allowances have
been made for the possible importation of essential details into the
narratives through defect of memory or the instinctive tendency of the
imagination towards dramatic unity and completeness, there remains a
mass of evidence from wholly independent sources, sufficient, we venture
to assert, to justify the steady prosecution of our inquiries. From this
mass we select two narratives for pUblication in this report-not as
being more authentic than many other accounts in the possession of the
Society: still less as excelling the others in interest or importance-
out &<I illustrating, in connection with our comments, the kind and the
amount of evidence which we regard as indispensable.
For at the same time we would point out that these narratives, sever-
ally not in all points proof a",aainst criticism, convey a very inadequate
idea of the real strength of the evidence by which our hope of future
success in this direction is, we think, justified. The strength of that
-- evidence consists essentially in the independent and cumulative
testimony of many sane and credible witnesses; and to form a just
estimate of it, it would be necessary for our readers to have before them,
not one or two selected stories, but the whole collection of narratives at
present in our possession. Till this is possible, we would ask them,
with ourselves, to hold their judgment in suspense.
We have chosen the following narrative as having received
incidental corroboration from external sources of which, necessarily,
few such stories are capable. At the same time, whilst not underrating
the value of this corroboration, we would point out that we have at
present the testimony of only one witness to the events related.
Though there can be no question of our informant's integrity, the
evidence would, certainly, be considerably strengthened if we could
Digitized by Google
106 Fir8t Report qfthe Oommittee on Haunted Hou8e8. [Dec. 9,.
obtain the direct testimony of the other persons concerned. The manner
in .vhich this story was obtained illustrates incidentally the difficulties
which beset our investigation. Our informant, a. gentleman of consider-
able intellectual distinction, declined to correspond with us, but at a
personal interview narrated to Mr. Podmore the following details, on
which he cheerfully submitted to be catechised.. The account here
given was drawn up immediately after the interview, and was read
through and corrected by Mr. X. Z. himself, as we will call him. But
it is only within the last few days that Mr. X. Z. hIlS accorded us
permission for the publication of the story: and that without his own
name, or the address of the house referred to-a prohibition which we·
regret, but can scarcely hold unreasonable. We should, perhaps, add
that, besides, being personally known to one of our number, Mr. X. Z.,
as we ha.ve called him, is familiar by reputation to every member of the ~­
Committee, and no doubt to most of our readers.
"In the early spring of 1852, Mr. X. Z. went to reside in a large old
house near C--. Mr. X. Z. only occupied part of the house, the
remainder being inhabited by a friend of his own, Mr. G--, and some
pupils. Mr. G--had occupied the house about a year before Mr. X. Z.'s.
arrival; and two servants had, in that interval, given him warning, on
account of strange noises which they had heard. The house, which is a large
one, was let at an extremely low rent.
"On the night of the 22nd September, 1852, at about one a.m.,.
Mr. X. Z. went up to his bedroom. The house was in complete darkness,
and he took no candle with him; but on opening a door which led into the·
passage where his room was situated, he found the whole passage filled with.
light. The light was white like daylight, or electric light, and brighter than
moonlight. At first Mr. X. Z. was dazzled by the light, but when his eyes
became used to it he saw, standing at the end of the passage, about 35 feet.
from him, an old man in a figured dressing-gown. The face of this old man,
which Mr. X. Z. saw quite clearly, was moat hideous; so evil was it that·
both expression and features were firmly imprinted on his memory. As !rIr.
X. Z. was still looking, figure and light both vanished, and left him in pitch
darkness. Mr. X. Z. did not. at that time, believe in ghosts, and his first.
thought was (he had lately read Brewster's • Natural Magic,' and had been
much impressed with the striking cases of spectraI illusion recorded in that.
work) that he was the subject of a hallucination. He did not feel at all
frightened, but resolved to take a dose of physic in the morning. The next.
day, however, remembering the tales told by the two servants who had left,
he made inquiries in the village as to the past history of the house. At first.
he could find out nothing, but finally an old lawyer told him that he had.
heard that the grandfather of the present owner of the house had strangled.
his wife and then cut his own throat, on the very spot where Mr. X. Z.
had seen the figure. The lawyer was unable to give the exact date of this-
occurrence, but Mr. X. Z. consulted the parish register, and found the two-
deaths recorded as having taken place on the 22nd September, 179-(the
precise year he could not now (1882) remember). The lawyer added he had
Digitized by Google
1882.J First Report of the Committee on Haunted Houses. 107"
heard that the old man was in the habit of walking about the huuse in a"
figured dressing-gown, and had the reputation of being half aJI
imbecile.
"On the 22nd September, 1853, a friend of Mr. G--'s arrived to make a.
short stay. He came down to breakfast the following morning, looking very .
pale, andannounced his intention of terminating his visit immediately. :M:r.
G-- rather angrily insisted on knowing thE' reason.of his sudden departure j .
and the young man, when pressed, reluctantly explained that he had been
kept awake all night by the sound of cryings and groanillgs, blasphemous.
oaths, and cries of despair. The door of his bedroom opened on to the spot.
where the murderer had committed suicide; and it was in the bedroom which
he had occupied that the murder had been committed. In 1856 Mr. X. Z.
and his friend had occasion to call on their landlord, who lived in London.
On being shewn into the room Mr. X. Z. at once recognised a picture above·
the mantel-piece as being that of the figure which he had seen. The portrait,
-however, had been taken when the man was younger, and the expression was .
not so hideous. He called :M:r. G--'s attention to the painting, saying:
• That is the man whom I saw.'
"The landlord, on being asked whom the portrait represented, replied
that it was the portrait of his grandfather, adding that he had been no credit_
to the family. .
" Doors also opened and shut in the house without apparent cause; bells.
were rung in the middle of the night, causing all the household to turn out.
and search for burglars; and the inmates of the house declared that unseen
footsteps had followed them down the whole length of the passage already
mentioned."
It would appear from }\fl'. X. Z.'s statement that other persons.
(including Mr. G--) heard or saw unaccountable things in the house.
But Mr. X. Z. was unwilling, both for his own credit and for that of
the house, that the inquiry should be prosecuted further in tIris
direction. Moreover, even had we felt justified in acting against his.
express desire in the matter, it would have been a task of great difficulty
to obtain at this distance of time the testimony of the other inmates of .
_ the house, previous to 1856; ~1r. X. Z. being unable to give us any
assistance in our inquiries. .
Mr. X. Z. and his friends left the house in 1856; alld Mr. X. Z..
himself was generally absent during September. This circumstance,
coupled with the fact that the room in which the sounds were chiefly
heard was generally used as a guest-room, and only occasionally
occupied, may account for nothing of an unusual character having
been seen or heard during the remainder of their tenancy.
We have, in this instance, audible testimony for the occurrence in a.
house where a murder had been committed, of :-
1. Noises of footsteps and bell-ringing, such as were commonly reported·
t@ be heard in houses of this description.
igitized byGoogl
108 First Report of tI,e Oommittee on Haunted Houses. [Dec. 9,
2. An apparition, noticed ou the scene of the murder, and subsequently
recognised from a portrait as bearing resemblance to the murderer.
3. Articulate BOunds of appropriate significance, heard, again, on the
.anniversary and on the scene of the murder, by another witneBB who W8iI
entirely ignorant of the facUl.
The house has been partially rebuilt since Mr. X. Z.'s departure;
and the disturbances have, apparently, ceased. The matter, however, is
still under investigation by the Committee, and we have some hope of
'obtaining, at no distant date, further authentic information on the
subject.
In our next narrative we have been fortunate enough to obtain the
testimony, at first hand, of three witnesses-two of them daughters of
·an Irish clergyman of some distinction-to the events related. We
·have also'the testimony of several other persons, given, it is true, at•._
'second-hand, but, as we have good reason to believe, authentic. Of these
persons we can claim acquaintance only with Miss H. G--. This lady's
evidence was taken down from her own lips by Mr. Sidgwick and Mr.
Podmore, last summer, and the sheets were subsequently read through
and corrected by her. The other witnesses, who reside in Ireland, have
·themselves written down their experiences for us. In this case
:also, for obvious reasons, we are not permitted to publish names and
·addresses.
The history of the house, as gathered from Miss G--'s letters, and
from conversation with Miss H. G--, may be summarised as follows:
The house itself is an old rectory in the north of Ireland. In 1818 or
1819, Miss A--, the eldest daughter of the then incumbent, died, and
.it is this lady whom the apparition which has been seen in the house is
·supposed to represent. Into the circumstances attending her death,
whichlend a tragic interest to the commonplace details of the following
narrative, we are not at liberty to enter. But'this much is clear, that
·Miss A--'s life had been an unhappy one-narrowin its interests, and
repressed in its sympathies. Alter Dr. A-- left there had been six
rectors in succession before Mr. G--, the fatherof our informants. Miss'-
H. G-- informed us that she had heard from Mr. H--, one of their
'predecessors, that strange noises, which he attributed to rats, were
heard in the house during his residence there. Since this gentleman's
departure, however, the house had been partially rebuilt, and there
appear to have been no rats in Mr. G--'s time. Miss H. G-- and
'her sister had heard when they first came to the house that it was
haunted by Miss A--'s ghost; but nothing unusual appears to have
been Been in the house until 1861 or 1862. The old rectory is a.t the
present date (1882) occupied by a respectable farmer and his family. We
.understand that these persons have not witnessed anything unusual in
'the house, but we have as yet found no opportunity for detailE'd
Digitized by Google
1882.] First Report of the Oommittee on Haunted Homes. 109
investigati(}n. The following is a copy of a letter written to us by Miss.
G--, one of four sisters.
" We lived for twelve years in what was considered to be a 'haunted
house.' It was an old country rectory, in which, forty years before, a
terrible tragedy had occurred.
" We took possession of the place in October, and nothing remarkable,
occurred until one evening about Christmas time-I forget the exact date.
After family prayers, when all our party, except my mother and father and
myself, had retired, I left the dining-room, and went across the hall into the
drawing-room. There was no light in the front hall, but a banging lamp
in the back passage gave' some little light. The drawing-room fire was. -
almost, but not quite, out. There was a white marble mantelpiece, and
before the fire-place stood a chair, in which one of us had been sitting before
tea. As I entered the room, a figure rose up quietly from that chair and
-approached me. I thought I recognised my sister, and said, 'Are you here,
H-- ~ I thought you had gone to bed.' The figure advanced and came
BO close to me that I put out my hand and said, 'Don't knock me down.'
Still no answer, and the figure was gone.
"I returned to the dining-room and said to my father and mother, 'H
there is a ghost in D-- I have seen it just now.' They laughed at the idea,
but I insisted that I had selln something for which I could not account, and
was determined- to investigate it. I therefore took a lamp and searched
drawing-room, hall, and passages, satisfied myself that the servants had
gone to bed, and then went to the rooms upstairs occupied by my sisters and
by some friends who were staying with us at the time. Not one of them
had been in the drawing-room after prayers.
* * * * * *
"A few evenings afterwards I opened a door which led from the back
passage to the top of the kitchen stairs. A figure seemed to rush up the
stairs to meet me, went past me, and when I looked after it into the
lighted passage behind me, it was gone. For this incident also I could not
satisfactorily account.
"This is all I saw, but I, as well as other members of our household.
often heard strange noises, as of dragging furniture, heavy footsteps, &c.,
-- especially at night.
" We investigated these over and over again, and once I detected that
the BOund of a clanking chain was caused by a reverberation from
the stable. There were no rats in the house while we were there.
"I. F. G--.
" June 7th, 1882."
" Three other points I should note before leaVing this subject.
1st. "The figure at D-- was generally seen about the shortest and
longest days of the year.
2ndly. "Some old parishioners who remembered Miss A--, the Arch-
deacon's daughter, whose mysterious death occurred in 1819, remarked to us.
that my sister R -_.'s figure was singularly like hers.
3rdly. "We came by degrees to consider the mysterious figure whicb
Digitized by Google
110 .Fir8t Report of tile Oommittee on Hatmfed Hou8e8. [Dec. 9
.occasionally appeared, as a personage in the house, friendly toward us, but
quite unconnected with our concerns. We always spoke of her as 'Miss A--.'
She never came to warn us, nor to communicate with us. We had towards
her a kindly feeling, perhaps mixed with awe, but we were not in the least
afraid of her. Servants who were at different times in our employment could
give information about the appearances and BOunds in that bouse, but itwould
be vain to expect them to reply to letters.
eeL F. G--.
"June 19th, 1882."
~Irs. B--, the writer of the letter given below, is a friend of the
.G-- family, and has, at their request, communicated to us the
following incident.
"I am not quite sure what year it was that during one of many visits to
my fnends at D-, I sa,v the 'ghost' of the house. It was, I think, 1861. __-
·about the end of September. We were a large merry party just finished tea
in the dining-room, and were all proceeding from it acroBB the hall to the
drawing-room; the doora of the rooms facing each other. I, being the
.guest, was the first to leave the dining-room and enter the dmwing-room, the
last of the party following, carrying the lamp, so that all the light was behind
us, though still very strong.
•• When I opened the dmwing-room door I started back on seeing what I
-thought was a lady, or one of the daughtera ofthe house, seated on a BOfa by
the fire on the opposite side of the room from the d001' (although I knew
everyone staying in the house was immediately behind me), and said,
•Who's that 7' •Oh !' said someone, • it must be MiBB A--,' the name by
which the ghost of the house was known.
"In a minute the room was full of bright light, and thero was nothing to
be seen of the appearance which a moment before looked so like a lady
comfortably seated by the fire. I had never been much of a believer in what
I had been told of the ghost of this house, and even still think it mtNY have
been a combination of shadows and reflections; and the seeing of it thus did
not inspire me with any feeling of alarm, as I have often stayed in the house
since; but I have never, either before or Bince, seen any shadows take so
tangible and substantial a form as that did. ._
"During several of my visits I have heard various people, both visitors
and inmates, say they had either seen or heard, or mther I should say felt,
the presence of the lame shadowy lady at all hours and places in the house.
. "T. M. B---.
"July 25th, 1882."
Next, we have Miss H. G-'s evidence, as given to Mr. Sidgwick
and Mr. Podmore.
"Some time in JWle, 1861 or 1862, I was coming up the staira, in the
dusk, about nine p.rn. As I reached the first landing, I saw just in front of
me, apparently about two yards off me, or nearer, standing against the light--
which came through thfllanding window-a grey figure, which I supposed to
be one of my si'Jters. I stopped, and said, •Are you coming on 7' No reply;
Digitized by Google
1882.] First Report qf tke Oommittee on Hatmtecl House8. 111
. and I made a step forward. The figure vanished; and I felt a slight shock.
It was as if I had suddenly come upon my own figure in a mirror. Had
there been a mirror there, I should have certainly supposed that to be the
case. I went upstairs, and told the others what I had seen."
MillS L. G--, who never saw the apparition herself, has communi-
cated by letteI her recollection of what she heard from her brother and
others. We have been unable to trace the two servants herein
referred to.
"In the year 1862 I was staying at Broomfield, after my grandmother's
death. Some time towards the end of September my brother John found us
there, and told us he had seen the 'ghost at D--,' but had not told them
.at home.
" He said that one evening he had driven my eldest brother, William, to
~e station at D-- for the 6.20 train. On his return he left the horse and
car, as usual, in the stable-yard with the servant, and was going into the
house, when, on passing the drawing-room windows, he saw, standing in that
next the hall-door, a figure which he at first took to be one of his sisters.
Suddenly he thought that the figure was not dressed in mourning, as his
sisters would be, and he stepped back oft' the doorsteps to look at it again.
She was standing with her hands up, as if she had just shut down the lower
sash of the window, and was looking out between her arms. He could not
in the dusk discern the features, but saw the hair parted on the forehead,
and that the dress was grey. It was not any of his sisters, or any of the
servants. He left the figure standing in the same attitude, and went into
the house, and into the drawing-room direct. No one could have left the
room without meeting lrim in the hall. The room was vacant, and when he
want into the parlour opposite he found all the members of the family who
were at home seated round the tea-table. The servant whose business it
was to close the drawing-room windows (who was also in black) and all the
other servants were, he satisfied himself, below stairs. The breadth of the
area, close to the edge of which he stood to look at the figure, was, I fa'1CY,
.about eight feet ; it could not have been more than ten.
"The hour was about, probably after seven o'clock, the date about the
-_18th September-I am not sure of the exact day. John was eighteen, in
good health and spirits. He died in 1865. He did not tell anyone
at home at the time, as he said, when he found the room empty,
he felt 'eerie,' but he told me he wandered through the house the
rest of the evening trying to see the figure again, but could not. The only
other time he was conscious of a 'presence' was, he told me, one day when,
.coming out of one of the rooms on the upper lobby, he felt as if some persoll
brushed closely by him, but he saw nothing.
"Several years afterwards-I think about 18G8-we had a girl named
Susan Taylor living with us as our maid. We were annoyed by a little girl
from the village of--, whom we were trying to train as a servant, telling
the servants that the house was haunted, and saying she was afraid to go up-
stairs in the evening.
" Speaking of this to me, Susan said that she did not believe in ghosts;
Digitized by Google
112 Firat Beport oj flte Committee on Haunted Houaea [Dec. 9-
that she had been washing out the upper lobby one eveniiig towards dusl~,
hurrying to get it done, as she thought I should be displeased at her doing it
so late; she looked up, and saw, as she thought, my youngestsisterm:oss the
lobby. Shesaid, 'I thought I saw Miss Caroline go from your room int&
Miss H--'s, with a shawl over her head. I was afraid she had the tooth-
ache, and I got up and followed her, but when I went into Miss H--'s
room there was no one there.' And she continued: 'That shews the non-
sense about a ghost in that room, for if there had been one I should have
seen it.' Susan added that she, like myself, was accustomed to be through
the house at all hours of the day and night, sicle-nursing.
"L. E. G--.
"June 13th, 1882. "
We subjoin an account, given to us by Miss H. G--, ot
phenomena observed by two other persons, with whom it is no longer
possible to communicate, an4 of various strange sounds heard by herself.__
"Sometime early in the sixtieliMr. John H-- came over to call on us
one summer's morning. As he passed the drawing-room windows, of which
there were two, to go into the house, he saw, as he thought, myself sittingin
the drawing-room. He waved his hand to the figure, went in at the open
door, and proceeded straight to the drawing-room. There was no 011e there
When he met me Mr. H-- told me what he had seen.
"In October, 1862, Mr. F--had been playing byhimself in the drawing-
room. It had grown dusk, and thinking it was probably time to dress for
dinner, he went out into the hall, and groped about on the shelf, where they
were usually kept, for a candle. He found a candle, and whilst feeling for
the matches, he heard the light step, as he thought, of one of us coming
down rapidly from the top of the house. When the step, as he thought, was
near him, he called, " Is it one of you girls 1 Can you find me some matches1'
The noise ceased and he found no one there. He at once mentioned the-
incident t:> my brother.if.
" On another oCC3Sion, when I was away from home, and two of mysisters
occupied the room next to mine, Mr. F-- occupied the guest-room below
mine. In tho morning he asked my sisters what they had been about in the-
night; he heard noises of furniture, &c., being moved in their room, which
had prevented him from sleeping.
U Strange sounds-generallyas of furniture being moved or some person
moving about in the room-were frequently heard in my room.
• [The above acoount was written down by us from Miss H. G.--'s lips, and
as she professed herself unable to state with certainty whether Mr. F-- had
mentioned having Been anything on the occasion referred to, we judge it best to
omit all referehce to a possible appearance. Recently, however, Miss I. F.
G-- on reading through her sister's narrative, writes to us, " This part of the
story has oertainly lost, not gained, in the telling. Mr. F-- told us that he
distinctly Ba'lll a girlish figure ooming downstairs on the occasion here mentioned,
that he addressed her first as one of the ladies of the family, then as a servant;
and that it was only when he walked olose up to the figure that it vanished. He
heard distinotly the rustle of a. dress and footfalls, as tho figure came quickly
dowllstairs to meet him.]
Digitized by Google
1882.] Fir8t Report ofthe Oommittee on HauntedHou8e8. 113
" The following were the most memorable instances :-
"1. In 1863, on a summer's moming about 10 a.m., the door of the room
being ajar, I heard what I supposed to be the noise made by the housemaid
moving about in the room; and accordingly pushed the door further open
and stepped into the room, calling out, 'Margaret, I want you;' but found
no one there.
"2. InNovember, of 1872, about two p.m.,when wewere on the point of
leaving the hoUse, having just gone up to my room, I heard a step come from
the room opposite along the passage, andcalled out, 'Who's there l' Finding
no one I ran immediat':lly down into the drawing-room and found my sister
and brother there (the only persons then in the house, except servants) ;
and then went into the kitchen and ascertained that none of the servants
had been upstairs.
"3. Inthe winter of 1864 (I think), while I was sitting in my room with
my back to the d~r, I had a vague impression as of someone entering the
--.room. I then heard a loud noise as of the crack ofa whip on wood, three times
in succession, as though the whip had been struck first on a wardrobe and then
on each of two windows opposite the door-as though the striker were going
round the room from the door, towards me. "H. G--
.•
" July 6th, 1882."
It would appear in this case that in a house which bore the reputa-
tion of being haunted :-
L "Certain unaccountable noises were occasionally heard.
2. A shadowy figure was seen at various times, by at least six witnesses ~
and as these witnesses in most cases affirm that they at first took the object
seen to be a living person, their apparent visions cannot be referred to any
state of expectancy, produced by their knowledge of the supposed haunt-
ing-unless we attribute to them a coincidence of misrepresentation on this
important point.
3. There are some grounds for connecting this figure with the lady
whose spirit was supposed to "haunt" the house.
Though for the reasons above indicated we deprecate as premature
any systematic attempt to estimate the weight of the evidence afforded
-:"':by these two narratives, we would, to a certain extent, anticipate
criticism by pointing out here, as we have done in Mr. X. Z.'s story,
what we consider the weakest points of the case. In the first place,
then, though the figure is said to have been seen by so many persons, it
was never seen by two persons simultaneously. Nor was it ever seen
under such circumstances, and in such light, that its features could be
clearly recognised. And, undoubtedly, some of the evidence for its
appearance is very weak, the figure seen by Mrs. B--, for example
(p. 110), being quite possibly a mere illusion of the senses,-the imagina-
tion having been previously excited by hearing of the ghost in the
house. In fact, any piece of the evidence standing by itself might be
ingeniously explained away, though it is difficult to see how this can
1
Digitized by Google
114 First Report 0/ tl/.8 Oommittee Ola Haunted Houses. [Dec. 9~
be done with the spontaneous and independent testimony 'of levei'al
creditable witnesses. It is not a cltain of evidence which breaks down if
the weakest link gives way, but rather a rope, the -strength of
which is to be judged as a whole, and not from the weakness of
any particular fibre. Again, the evidence for the connection of the
figure said to have been seen with Miss A-- is but slight. In the
absence of any rec6gnition of the features, or the appearance of the
phantom on any definite anniversary, the supposed connection is founded
mainly upon the general resemblance of the figure of one girl to that of
another, and on the probabilities of the case as estimated in the fireside
talk of a few Irish villagers. It should, however, be remembered, that
to establish the prima facie objective nature of an apparition it is not
neces8Q/l"1J that any such connection as that above indicated should be
. demonstrated. And the identity of the apparition, as seen at various
times by different persons, seems tolerably clear. The several deserip- --
tions are apparently descriptions of the same figure: the same general
features are noted by each witness, and if there is no striking
coinCidence in the various 8.ccounts, neither is there any discrepancy_
Moreover, the witnesses themselves are deserving of credence, not only
from their high character, but from the plain and straightforward
manner in which their testimony is given. This last, indeed, appears to
us a most important feature in the case. The incidents related, and the
manner of the relation, are so little calculated to stimulate the
imagination, that there is the less suspicion of the story having been in
any way embellished in the telling. It is only when the various bits
of testimony are put side by side that their real significance can be
appreciated.
Meanwhile, in addition to examining and recording the evidence of
others, we haveheldourselves in readiness to takeanyfavourableopportu-
nity for personally investigating the phenomena which forms the subject
of our inquiries. But we have to admit that our record of work done
under this head is too scanty to be worth laying before the Society. We
]lave been confronted at the outset by <Ufficulties peculiar to this investi" --
gation, which, though not altogether unforeseen by ourselves, do not
appear to have occurred to some of our critics. We have been asked
more thar. once why we do not bring a dozen disbelievers together into
a haunted house, and leave them for a night with the ghost, in
order to settle the matter decisively. But we would point out
that this suggestion ignores certain obvious considerations. Jt:ven
ASSuming the absolute truth of the narrative furnished to us, unless
the iltcidents related occurred frequently or at fixed periods-a case which
'We have no grounds for believing at all·common-it is very improbable
that· any result will be obtained by a single night's experiment. Ghosts,
likc aerolites, secm to be no respecters of persons; and no amount of
Digitized by Google
1882.J First" Report of tko Oommittee 011 IIal/nted Hot/ses. 115
,scIentific watchfulness will make them come to order. Again,
the owners of houses reputed to be haunted arc reluctAnt to make the
general public, or even a select portion of it, partakers in the privileges
which they themselves enjoy. The man who admi.ts the possibility of
any house being haunted rUllS the risk of being regarded as
a visionary; but the hint of such 0. possibility in the case of a man's
.own house is, none the less, commonly regard.cd by him as impairing
the value of his property. To acquiesce in thisl'IJqnires a disinterested
zeal for the advancement of knowledge which we fear must always be
rare. Hence we can hardly feel surprised to find that, in many cases,
owners of houses display a diplomatic reserve when questioned on this
subject, or even profess entire ignorance of the existence of rumours
affecting the reputation of their dwellings; and that they distinctly
-Jecline to offer any facilities for theirinvestigation: nor that, when they
can no longer ignore, or persuade others to ignore, these rumours, they
should proceed to pull down or reconstruct the house without any
regard to the scientific interests thus imperilled. In other cases we have
failed to obtain even the name of the owner of the house from the
narrator of a "ghost story:1I these particulars being withheld by our
informant out of regard to the feelings and interests of the persons
concerned. A remarkable story, entitled "No Fiction," appeared in a
recent number of Macmillan's Magazine. We have been il'l communi-
cation with the clerg]man who wrote this account, and was himself the
witness of some of the occurrences related, and wlnlst he has afforded us
full confirmation of the accurracy of the narrative, he has been compelled,
in deference to the wishes of his friend, the owner of the house in ques-
tion, to withhold from us any further information.
In conclusion, it is hardly necessary to say that if any of our
members can afford us opportunities for personally investigatiug cases
of alleged haunting, we shall hold ourselves bound by any conditions of
secrecy which they may think fit to impose; and we would earnestly
~-lnvite help in this direction from any who may be able to give it.
*** By permission of the Council, this report has been somewhat
modified and enlarged, since it was read before the Society on the
Sth December last.
1 2
Digitized by Google
116, .Report oj the Literary (Jommittp.p,. [Dec. 9),
IV.
REl'oltT OF THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
By W. F. BARRETT; C. C. MAsSEY; Rev. W. STAINTON MOSES j FRANK
PODMORE; and EDMUND GURNEY and FREDERIC W. H. MYEIIBs
Hon. Secretaries.
Five months have elapsed since the last general meeting of thiS"
Society. During that time the Literary Committee has been occupied
in two principal lines of inquiry. In the first place we have collected
and collated a great number of accounts already in print, the object of
this Committee being gradually to produce a conspectus as complete as
possible of such phenomena, illustrating the whole range of subjects
which fall within the scope of this Society, as have been recorded by
trustworthy witnesses in the last two centuries. The mass of such
phenomena, we need not say, is exceedingly large; and it is no easy
matter to form an adequate collection of the books, especially the older
books, in which these narratives are to be found. Our President,
however, has kindly presented the Society with a conSiderable collection
of books of this description, which we trust will form the nucleus of
a valuable library. We shall be very glad to receive communications
from anyone who has any of the rarer works with which he might be
dil'lposed to part; and in the present condition of the funds of the
Society we should, of course, be still more glad to receive any contri-
butions to the library or Library Fund. Stories of the kind we want
are often to be found scattered through biographies and the generaJ-
literature of all countries, and several correspondents have already done
us good service by pointing these out; assistance of this kind is particu-
larly invited.
The second direction of our inquiry has been of more immediate
interest. We composed a circular letter asking for information on our
various topics, and sent it to several of the leading London and
provincial journals, as well as to private friends. In response to this
we received very numerous communications containing matter of more
or less value; and we have also been favoured with severa] groups of
stories already collected by other inquirers. We are very far, however,
trom considering that the stock of material obtainable in this way is
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of tke Literary Committee. 11';'
exhausted; and .we are repeating the substance of our letter in the form
·of an adv~rtisement from time to time in some leading papers.
A public appeal for information of this kind, has, no doubt, one
·conceivable drawback, which some eyes have ma",~ed even into a
"fatal objection-the possibility, namely, of hoaxes. The same possibility,
it may be remarked, has to be faced in antiquarian, historical, and some
-other kinds of scientific research. It is a danger which can be obviated
by care; and the process of sifting to which we subject every
-narrative sent to us is, we think, a sufficiently severe one. No evidence
.is considered at all unless authenticated by names and dates (not
necessarily for publication); and in most cases we make the personal
acquaintance of the narrator, and hear his story told in a manner
which pledges his honour to its truth.off. We also communicate with
-Such other living persons as may be concerned, and obtain all the
independent corroboration possible.t It is therefore in the last degree
'Unlikely that anyone who allows the pUblication of his name is vouching
'for anything which he does not, at any rate, believe to be the fact.
And if he were to withhold permission to publish his name, while yet
contriving his plot with sufficient elaboration to take us in, he could
derive but small pleasure from seeing his false story, in small print and
·dull anonymity, used to reinforce the better-attested evidence of some
three hundred more honourable correspondents. The value of other
-possible objections-such as the natural proneness to eJ\aggeration and
the love of exciting wonder-will be better estimated when the evidence
itself is presented in full. It will then be seen, we think, that these
·elements of narration, even when the utmost allowance is made for
them, could not conceivably affect the main fact reported.
We have just used the words "dull anonymity." Why, it may be
'Said, should accounts dealing with these mysterious subjects, whether
real or fictitious, be dull1 Well, we are perhaps somewhat bla8e8 by
the number that we have lately read; but we can scarcely hope that
~those who, in turn, follow our guidance through the same paths will
·escape the same fate. The very last thing that we expect to produce
.is a collection of narratives of a startling or blood-chilling character;
our pages are far more likely to provoke sleep in the course of perusal
* Cases of occasional relaxa.tion of this rule are, e.g., where the testimony
of illiterate persons, difficult to reach, has been accepted as authentic on the
authority of the clergyman of the parish.
t The numerous cases explicable by iZZUlwn or llaZZucination have heen, we
think, effectually excluded from our present series by our rule of admitting no
·account of an appearance which was not either (1) perceived by more than one
person, or (2) approximately coinoident with, and apparently dependent upon,
BOme occurrence of which the witness of the appearance was not otherwise
·eognisant. The latter is the distinotive mark of the cases given in this report.
Digitized by Google
118 Report of the Literarv (Jommittee. [Dec. 9,.
than to banish it afterwards. The point in the evidence that. impresses-
us is not its exciting or terrific quality, but its overwhelming quantity
-overwhelming, we mean, to any possibility of further doubting the
reality of the class of phenomena. Those who are used, as most of us
have been all our lives, to hearing now and again a stray story at third
or fourth hand, with the usual commentary of vague wonderment or-
shallow explanation, but without any suggestion of analysing or probing
it, can scarcely imagine the effect on the mind of a sudden, large accumu-
lation of direct, well-attested, and harmonious testimony. The
similarities of unlooked-for detail which bind the phenomena together-
into distinct groups, the very similarities which make the accounts of
them monotonous reading,give the strength of a faggot to the dispersed
units which looked as if the mere dead weight of uninquiring.
incredulity might easily break them.
Further, we must warn future readers that the details of the,
evidence are in many cases not only dull, but of a trivial and even
ludicrous kind; and they will be presented for the most part in the
narrator's simplest phraseology, quite unspiced for the literary palate.
Our tales will resemble neither the Mysteries qf Udolplw nor the
dignified reports of a learned society. The romanticist may easily
grow indignant over them; still more easily may the journalist grow
facetious. The collection may be easily described as ajarrago; but it-
will at any rate be ajarrago of facts. For its miscellaneous character-
we shall hardly be responsible. However caused, these phenomena-
n.re interwoven with the everyday tissue of human existence, and pay
no more regard to what men call appalling than to what men call,
ridiculous. -
The facts which we are thus collecting belong to every department
of our subject. That subject, however, must evidently be treated in
GCparate instalments, for which the work of years will be necessary.
During the course of this year we hope to publish the next considerable
instalment in the form of a book which will deal more at large with._,
the s\lbject of this Report. But for present purposes, and until the
:mass of our evidence can be fully set forth, we must claim to assume
its general credibility, and confine ourselves mainly to the mode of
&1Tanging it. In a chaos such as this subject presents, classification, how-
over rude and provisional, is itself light-bringing; it is at any rate
[.n indispensable pre-requisite of any true analysis.
Go AGENT AND PERCIPIENT nOTH IN A NORMAL CONDITION.
Having continually-growing reason to believe that the- primary phe-
nomenon of Thought-transference is solidly established, we naturally
desired, in framing the scheme of the forthcoming book, to link it.~
Joo.tter as logically as possible with the results already achieved..
Digitized by Google
1882.] :Report of tke Literar'/l Oommittee. 119
Starting, then, with the assumption of the reality of this primary pheno-
menon, we propose to examine other cases of transferred or sympathetic
impression. In Thought-transference, so far as we have hitherto
dealt with it, both parties (whom, for convenience' sake, we will call
the Agent and the Percipient) are supposed to be in a p.ormal state;
and we have a few cases whicp a.ppear to differ from our previous
experiments in Thought-transference only in the facts that the
transference of the impression was not accompanied by any definite
exercise of will, and that the transferred image seemed more objective.
Such a case is the following, given us by Mr. J. G. Keulemans, of
2, Mountford Terrace, Barnsbury Square-a scientific draughtsmau-
with whom some of us are personally acquainted :-
(i.) .. One morning, not longago,while engaged with some very casy work, I
saw in my mind's eye a little wicker basket, contsining five eggs, two very
clean,of a more than usually elongated oval and of a yellowish hue, one very
round, plain white, but smudged all overwith dirt; the remainingtwo bore no
peculiar marks. I asked myself what that insignificant but Budden image
could mean. I never think of similar objects. But that basket remained
fixed in my mind, and occupied it for Bome momentB. About two hours later
I went into another room for lunch. I was at once struck with the remark-
able similarity between the eggs standing in the egg-cups on the breakfast
table and thoBe two very long ones I had in my imagination previously seen
'Why do you keep looking at those eggs BO carefully l' asked my wife;
and it caused her great astonishment to learn from me how many eggs had
been sent by her mother half all hour before. She then brought up tho
remaining three; there was the one with the dirt on it, and the basket, tho
same I had seen. On further inquiry, I found that the eggs had been kept
'together by my mother-in-law, that she had placed them in the basket and
thought of sending them to me ; and~ to use her own words, 'I did of courso
think of you at that moment.' She did this at ten in the morning, \Yhich (as
I know from my regular habits) must have been just the time of my imprcs-
8ion." Such an incident, however, seems very exceptional; and in the great
__ body of our cases one or other of the parties is, or both of thcm are, in !'omo
condition other than that of normal waking consciousness.
'.
{j. PERCIPIENT IN AN ABNORMAL CONDITION.
1. Exalted perception. during Bleep.
In the first place, then, the Percipient may be asleep, and mo.:,'
receive in a dream or vision some impression which may be noted, alld
subsequently proved to have been coincident with an impression,
derived either from outward or inward sources, in a. waking mind-that
of him whom we call the Agent. The following account, given to us by
a personal friend of our own (whose name and address we are at lib'3rty
to mention privately), differs from ordinary Thought-transference, not
Digitized by Google
120 Report qf tke Literary Oommittee. [Dec. 9,
only in thA vividness of the impression, but in the fact that one at least
of the percipients was asleep :-
(ii.) "One Sunda.y night last winter, at 1 A.M., I wished strongly to com-
municate the idea of my presence to two friends, who resided a.bout three miles
from the house where I was staying. When I next saw them, a few days
afterwards, I expreBBly refrained from mentioning my experiment; but in the
course of conversation, one of them said, 'You would not believe what a
strange night we spent last Sunday; , and then recounted that both the
friends had believed themselves to see-my figure standing in their room. The
experience was vivid enough to wake them completely, and they both looked
at their watches, and found it to be exactly one o'clock." [One of these
friends has supplied independent testimony to tIlls circumstance.]
In this case there was a deliberate exercise of will Similar cases
where that featureis absent are likely oftento pass unobserved; and all the .--
observed ones that happen to have come under our notice have been
complicated by the pre-existence of some sort of mesmeric rappOTt be-
tween the persons concerned.
2. Exalted peTception during t,·a1lC6.
This circumstance affords a natur~ transition to the next class of
cases where the Percipient is in that rarer and deeper state of
slumber known as the "mesmeric trance." Instances of impression
transferred from the agent to the percipient, when the latter is in
this state, are of course exceedingly numerous. Clairvoyance will, we
hope, be fully and separately dealt with hereafter; but we have little
doubt that many of the facts recorded under that head will be found to
~esolve themselves into simple transference of impression. This dis-
tinction, which we think is of the greatest imporlance to keep in min~
is well illustrated by the following incident :-
(iii.) .A mesmerist, well known to us, was requestedby a lady to mesmerise
her, in order to enable her to visit in spirit certain places of which he him- __ -
self had no knowledge. He failed to produce this effect; but found that he ./
could lead her to describe places unknown to her but familiar to him. Thus
on one occasion he enabled her to describe a particular room which she had
never entered, but which she described in perfect conformity with his recol-
lection of it. It then occurred to him to imagine a large open umbrella as
lyingon a table in this room, whereupon the lady immediately exclaimed, "I
see a large open umbrella on the table."
Here we must certainly suppose that the impression proceeded from
no other source than the operator's mind; and it is to transferences of
this sort that for the present we intend to confine our treatment of
mesmerism, reserving mesmerism in general and clairvoyance proper
for subsequent treatment.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report oj the Literary Committee. 121
3. Exalted pfl'I'ceptwlI at or near the moment of death.
We come now to a third class of cases, which at first sight seem to
differ in a singular way from those already enumerated. For it seems
that not only the appo.rent depre88ion of the vital energies in sleep or
trance, but also their apparent exaltation in moments of excitement or
danger, may have a decisive effect in engendering or increasing the
percipient's susceptibility to impressions from a distance. There is,
however, we may suggest, one strongly-marked condition which would
seem to unite in itself the characteristics both of depression and
exaltation: we mean death, or, as in this connection ·we prefer to
call it, the process of dissolution. During this process, often a prolonged
one, mental conditions are undoubtedly observed analogous on the one
hand to trance, on the other to exalted excitement. We would venture
--.oro suggest, therefore, that in death may be seen a possible key to the
mysterious parallelism, in their effects, of conditions so opposite as
mesmeric sleep and the excitement of peril. If we may borrow a phrase
from magnetism, we may perhaps picture these cases to ourselves as
involving a relaxation of some coercitiveforce,which under normal condi-
tions is able to limit the channels of impression to those through which the
recognised senses act in the recognised way. However this may be, it
would appear that the excitement of danger or imminent death has a
potene influence in facilitating the transference of supersensory
impressions; and though, as a rule, it is not the percipient, but the
agent, who is dying or in danger, this is by no means always the case.
There seems sometimes to be a distinct interchange of perception, as in
the following instance. The narrative is abridged from the words of
the late Mrs. Charles Fox, of Trebah, Falmouth (a lady well known to
one of us), who had heard the story from her grandmother, one of the
children who witnessed the apparition. Few families could be named
in which such traditions were likely to be at once more sacredly and
more soberly preserved.
(iv.) "In 1739 Mrs. Birkbeck, wife of William Birkbeck, banker, of Settle,
and a member of the Society of Friends, was taken ill and died at Cockermouth,
while returning from a journey to Scotland, which she had undertaken alone
-her husband and three children, aged seven, five, and four years respectively,
remaining at Settle. The friends at whose house the death occurred made
notes of every circulllstance attending Mrs. Birkbeck's last hours, so that the
accuracy of the several statements as to time as well as place was beyond the
doubtfulness of man's memory, or of any even unconscious attempt to bring
them into agreement with each other.
"One morning, between sevell and eight o'clock, the relation to whom the
C3re of the children at Settle had been entrusted, and who kept a minute journal
of all that concerned them, went into their hedroom as usual, and found them
all sitting up in their beds in great excitement and delight. 'Mamma has
been here! ~ they cried, and the little one said, 'She called, "Comel
igitized byGoogl
122 llepol·t oj the Literary Committee. [Dec. 9,
Esther! '" Nothing could make them doubt the fact, and it was carefully
noted down to entertain the mother on her return home. That same morning
as their mother lay on her dying bed at Cockermouth, she said, ' I should be
ready to go if I could Jut see my children.' She then closed her eyes, to
reopen them, as they thought, no more. But after ten minutes of perfect
stillness she looked up brightly and said, 'I am ready now; I have been
.,ith my children;' and then a.t once peacefully passed away. When the
notes taken a.t the two placcs were compared, the day, hour, and minutcs
were the same.
" One of the three children was my grandmother, nee Sarah Dirkbeck,
afterWards the wife of Dr. Fell, of ffiverstone. From her lips I heard the
above a.lmost litera.lly as I have repeated it. The elder was Morris Birkbeck,
afterwards of Guildford. Both these lived to old age, and retained to the last
~!.' solemn and reverential a remembrance of the circumstance that they rarely
would speak of it. Esther, the youngest, died soon after. Her brother and
sister heard the child say that her mother called her,but could not speak with .---
any certainty of having themselves heard the words, nor were sensible of
more than their mother's standing there and looking on them."
We have nt first hand some other very interesting examples of this
double percipience. Commander Aylesbury, late of the Indian navy.
tells us how, when nearly drowning as a boy, he had a vivid vision of
his home circle, en~cred as they actually were at the time, while they
simultaneously and distinctly heard his voice, and were thereby rendered
apprehensive that evil had befallen him. Singularly like this is tho
personal experience which the celebrated conjurer, Mr. J. N. Maskelyne.
recorded in the Daily Telegrapl~ of October 24th, 188l. And rare as
the type is, it is perhaps less so than that where a. dying person
pereeives, and correctly describes, the surroundings of a. living friend
who himself has no impression of the dying person's presp.nf',e.
'Y. AGE~T Iii A...
... ADNORlIAL CONDITION.
We pass over now to the great family of cases, where the trans-
ference of impressions is facilitated by some abnormal condition on the
side of the Agent, while the condition of the Percipient remains nonnal.
1. Impt'eBBion from II person in. Bleep.
In the first place, the Agent may himself be asleep, and his vivid
dream may communicate itself as an apparently objective reality to
a wakeful mind. To this c~tegory belongs the following singular dream,
written down by the dreamer, the Rev. Joseph Wilkins, a Dissenting
minister at Weymouth (who died in 1800), and endorsed by the late
Dr. Abercrombie, of Edinburgh, a mall, we need hardly say, of the
groatest scientific acumen :-
(v.) " JosephWilkins, while a young man, absent from home, dreamt, with-
out. 'my apparent reason, that he returned home, reached the house at night,
Digitized by Google
1882.] Repmot of tile LUerary (Jommiitee. 123~
found the front door locked, entered by the back door, visited his mother's.,
room,found her awake,and said to her, 'Mother, I am going ona long journey
and am come to bid you good-bye.' A day or two afterwards this young man
received a letter from his father, asking how he was, and alleging his mother's_
anxiety on account of a. vision which had visited her on a night which was, in
fact, that of the Bon's dream. The mother, lying awake in bed, had heard
Bome one try the front door and enter by the back door, and had then Been
the son enter her room, heard him say to her, 'Mother, I am going on a long·
journey and am come to bid you good-bye,' and had answered, '0 dear BOD
thou art dead!' words which the son also had heard her Bay in his dream.
2. Impression from a peI'Bon in a state oj trance.
There are other cases of this type, and the class fades into the-
next one, where the Agent is in a state of trance either natural or-
-iDduced, and is perceived by waking persons at a distance. To this
category belong a large number of somnambulic stories; as for in-
stance the well·known account, vouched for by Dr. J. H. Jung-Stilling,
of a man who, falling into a trance in Philadelphia, conversed with a
ship captain in a London coffee-house, and communicated the results of-
the interview, which were subsequently confirmed, to the captain's wife
in America. Such cases, however, belong to the deferred subject of
trance and mesmerism.
3. Impremon from a dying person.
The classification we have adopted now brings liS to the far larger-
and more important class of apparitions, perceived at moments when
the Agent is at or about the time of his death. We are obliged to use·
the v&.c"Ue phrase "at or about the time of death," in order to,
cover the whole process of dissolution; for in fact some of these
appearances would seem to have been witnessed at some little-
interval before death, others at the moment of apparent death,
and others again at some short time after apparent death had
-- supervened. It is obvious that when the interval between death
and the apparition exceeds a certain length, we are brought face to face-
with problemll, and possibly with phenomena, of a quite different kind
from those which we have been discussing. These phenomena and
these problems lie 4lJltside the scope of the book on which we are at
present engaged. But the cases in which t~ere is approximate coinci-
dence between the death and the apparition are extremely numerous,
and comprise, perhaps, as many as half of the first-;hand accounts which
we shall have to bring forward. In many ofthese cases (as of those where
the excited or dying person is the percipient), the evidence seems to-
point rather to a vivification of a general rapport already existing
between the parties, than to any special transference of the thought or-
Digitized by Google
124 Report of the Literarv Oommittl!e. [Dec. 9,
emotion of the moment; and the impression produced on the percipient's
'mind is either that of the sensible presence of the &o<rent, or is a'strong
general idea of him, without any distinct refercnce to what is passing in
his mind
We have received the following account from our friend Mr. John
Addington Symonds :-
(vi.) "I was a boy in the Sixth Fonn at Harrow ; and, as head of Mr. Ren-
da.ll's house, had a room to myself. It was in the summerof 1858. I woke about
dawn, and felt for my books upon a chair between the bed and the window j
when I knew that I must turn my head the other way, and there between me
and the door stood Dr. Ma.clea.ne, dressed in a clergyman's black clothes. He
bent his sallow face a little towards me and said, 'I am going & long way-
take care of my son.' While I was attending to him I suddenly saw the door
in the place where Dr. Ma.clea.ne had been. Dr. Ma.clea.ne died that nigqt·-
(at what hour I cannot precisely say) at Clifton. My father, who was a great
friend of his, was with him. I was not aware that he was more than usually
ill. He was a chronic invalid."
Captain G. F. Russell Colt, of Gartsherrie, Coatbridge, N.H..
·-allows us to publish the following narrative :-
(vii.) "I was at home for my holidays, and residing with my father and
mother, not here, but at another old family place in IDd-Lothian, built by
an ancestor in Mary Queen of Scots' time, called Inveresk House. My
bedroom was a curious old room, long and narrow, with a window at one
end of the room and a door at the other. My bed was on tIle right of the
window, looking towards the door. I had a very dear brother (my eldest
brother), Oliver, lieutenant in the 7th Royal Fusiliers. He was about
,nineteen years old, and had at that tinle been some months before Sebastopol
I corresponded frequently with him, and once when he wrote in low spirits,
not being well, I said in answer that he was to cheer up, but that if anything
·did happen to him he must let me know by appearing to me in my room,
where we had often as boys together sat at night and indulged in a
.surreptitious pipe and chat. This letter (I found subsequently) he received _.
as he was starting to receive the sacrament from a clergyman who has since
related the fact to me. Having done this he went to the entrenchments and
never returned, as iu a few hours afterwards, tlle storming of the Redan
'(l()mmenced. He, on the captain of his company fa.lling, took his place, and
led his men bravely on. He had just led them wit~ the wa.lls, though
already wounded in several places, when a bullet struck him on the right
temple and he fell amongst heaps of others, where he was found in a sort of
kneeling posture (being propped up by other dead bodies) thirty-six hours
afterwards. His death took place, or rather he fell, though he may not
have died immediately, on the 8th September, 1855.
" That night I awoke suddenly, and saw facing the window of my room.
by my bedside, surrounded by a light sort of phosporescent mist as it were,
my brother kneeling. I tried to speak but could not. I buried my heall in.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of the Literary Committee. 125
the bedclothos, not at all afraid (because we had all been brought up not to
believe in ghosts or apparitions), but simply to collect my ideas, because I
had not been thinking or dreaming of him, and indeed had forgotten all
about what I had written to him a fortnight before. I decided that it must
be fancy, and the moonlight playing on a towel, or something out of place.
But on looking up there he was again, looking lovingly, imploringly, and
sadly at me. I tried again to speak, but found myself tongue-tied. I could
notuttera sound. I sprang out of bed, glanced through the window, and saw
that there was no moon, but it was very dark and raining hard, by the sound
against the panes. I turned, and still saw poor Oliver. I shut my eyes,walked
through it and reached the door of the room. As I turned the handle,before leav-
ing the room, I looked once more back. The apparition turned round his head
slowly and again looked anxiously and lovingly at me, and I saw then for
the first time a wound on the right temple with a red stream from it. His
face was of a waxy pale tint, but transparent-looking, and so was the reddish
__mark. But it is almost impossible to describe his appearance. I only
know I shall never forget it. I left the room and went into a friend's room
and lay on the sofa the rest of the night. I told him why. I told others in
the honse, but when I told my father he ordered me not to repeat such
nonsense, and especially not to let my mother know. On the Monday
following* he received a note from Sir Alexander Milne to say that the-
Redan was stormed, but no particulars. I told my friend to let me know if
he saw the name among the killed and wounded before me. About a fort-
night later he came to my bedroom in his mother's house in Athole Crescent,
in Edinburgh, with a very grave face. I said, 'I suppose it is to tell me
the sad news I expect;' and he said, 'Yes.' Both the colonel of the regiment
and one or two officers who saw the body confirmed the fact that the
appearance was much according to my description, and the death wound was
exactly where I had seen it. But none could say whether he actually died
at the moment. His appearance, if so, must have been some hours after
death, as he appeared to me a few minutes after two in the morning.
Months later his small prayer-book and the lettel' I had written. to him were
returned to Inveresk, fOlmd in the inner breast pocket of the tunic which he
wore at his death. I have them now."
Mr. Colt mentioned several persons who could corroborate this
.- narrative. We add the following letter from Mrs. Hope, of Fermoy,
sister of Mr. Colt:-
"On the morning of September 8th,T 1855, my brother, Mr. Colt, told
myself, Captain Ferguson of the 42nd Regiment, since dead, and Major
Borthwick of the Rifle Brigade (who is living) and others, that he had during
the night wakened from sleep and seen, as he thought, my eldest brother,
Lieut. Oliver Colt of the Royal Fusiliers (who was in the Crimea), standing
* Communication with the Crimea was then conducted by telegraph for only
part of the way.
t The date was really September 9th, and the figure was lmeeling. These.
minute discrepancies clearly in no way affect the value of the corroboration.
126 Report oj tne Literary Committep-o [Dec. 9,
'between his bed and the door j that he saw he was wounded in more than
'one place--I remember he named the temple as one place-by bullet-wounds ;
that he roused himself, rushed to the door with closed eyes and looked back
,at the apparition, which stood between him and the bed. My father en-
joined silence; lest my mother should be made uneasy j but shortly after-
wards came the news of the fall of the Redan and my brother's death. Two
years afterwards my husband, Colonel Hope, invited my brother to dine with
him j the former being still a lieutenant in the Royal Fusiliers, the latter an
ensign in the Royal Wel8h Fusiliers. While dining, they were talking of
my eldest brother. My husband was about to describe his appearance when
'found, when my brother described what he had seen, and to the astonishment
of all present, the description of the wounds tallied' with the facts. My hus-
'band was my eldest brother's greatest friend, and was among those who saw
the body as soon as it was found."
Miss Summerbell, of 140, Kensington Park Hoad, W. (who is per- _-
sonally known to the Secretaries), communicates the following story:-
(viii.) "Mymother married, ata very early age, without the consent of her
parents. My grandmother vowed that she would nover Bee her daughter
,.again. A few months after her marriage my mother was awakened at about
.2 a.m. by a loud knocking at the door. To her great surprise my father did
not wake. The knocking was resumed j my mother spoke to,my father, but,
.as he still slept, she got up, opened the window and looked out, when, to her
amazement, she saw her mother, in full Court dress, standing on the step and
-looking up at her. My mother called to her, but my grandmother, frowning
and shaking her head, disappeared. At this moment my father woke, and
my mother told him what had happened. He went to the window, but saw
nothing. My mother was sure that my grandmother, even at that late hour,
had come to forgive her, and entreated my father to let her in. He went
down and opened the door, but nobody W3.ll there. He assured my mother
that she had been dreaming, and she at last believed that it was so. The
next morning the servan~8 were questioned, but they had heard nothing, .md
the matter was dismissed from the minds of my parents till the evening, when
they heard that my grandmother had been, in Court dress, at a ball the
night before-I think at Keusington Palace, but of this 1 am not suru-that,
feeling unwell, she had returned home, and after about an hour's illness, haJ
died at 2 a.m. She had not'mentioned my mother's name during her short
illness." It will be observed that in tIus case the impression from the dying
mother, although fully realised' only ill wakefulness, made itself felt in the
first instance during sleep. '
Mr. J. G. Keulemans, whom we have already mentioned, gives us
the following account :-
(ix.) In December, 1880, he was living with his family in Paris. The out-
break of an epidemic of small-pox caused him to remove three of his children,
including a favourite little boy of five, to London, whence he received, in the
course of the ensuing month, several letters giving an excellent account of
their health. "On the 24th of January, 1881,at half-past sevenin the morning,
1882.] Report of tl,e Literary Oommittee. 127
i was suddenly awoke by hearing his voice, as I fancied, very near me. I
·saw a bright, opaque, white mass before my eyes, and in the centre of this
light I saw the face of my little darling, his eyes bright, his mouth smiling.
The apparition, accompanied by the sound of his voice, was too short and too
sudden to be called a dream: it was too clear, too decided, t<> be called an
effect of imagination. So distinctly did I hear his voice that I looked round
the room to see whether he was actually there. The sound I heard was thnt
o()f extreme delight, such as only a happy child can utter. I thought it was
the moment he woke up in London, happy and thinking of me. I said to
myself, 'Thank God, little Isidore is happy as always.''' Mr. Keulemans
describes the ensuing <lay as one of peculiar brightness and cheerfulness. He
took a long walk with a friend, with whom he dined ; and was afterwards
playing a game at billiards, when he again saw the apparition of his clilld.
'This made him seriously uneasy, and in spite of having received within three
<lays the assurance of the child's perfect health, he expressed to his wife a
__>conviction that he was dead. Next <lay a letter arrived saying that the child
was ill; but the father was convinced that this was only an attempt to brenk
the news; and, in fact, the child had died, after a few hours' illneBB, at tho
.exact time of the first apparition.
The Rev. W. S. Grignon, Hanbrook, Bristol, writes to us as
follows :-
(x.) "I give the annexed narrative of the apparition of a deceased or dying
person on the authority of my mother, the late Mrs. Elizabeth A. Grignon,
wife of the late William Stanford Grl.,anon, of Upton, near Montego Bay,
..Jamaica, Esq., and youngest sister of the well-known coullSel, Sir James
Scarlett, afterwards the first Lord Abinger. I received the account from her,
.and have had it confirmed by my late sister, Miss Elizabeth Scru.·lettGrl.,anon,
who had often heard it from our mother. I mny sny that my mother was a
·cool-headed, accurate person.
"About the year 1820 she was resident at Upton, in Jamaica, and had
;as an upper nurse in her family a Mrs. Duchoux, an Englishwoman who
had married a Frenchman; with the exception of this nurse, every
servant in the house was black or brown. One morning my mother observed
that this woman seemed much depressed, so much so that she pressed her
"for the reason. She said she was sure she should hear of the death of
-- ·an aunt of hers resident in England. Her statement was as follows:-
She had got into bed, but not yet fallen aleep, and 11ad before tl1is
locked the door of her bedroom. A negro girl was sleeping on a mattress on
the floor of her room. Ne:J.r tIlO foot of her bed was a small table on which
.stood a candle under a shade. Looking up, sho saw a female figure
in a night-dress, standing with its back towards her at the foot of the bed,
near the table with the light on it, and holding a roll of papcr in its hand.
As she looked, the figure turned its face round towards her, and she at once
%OCognised an aunt then living in England. The figure then moved towards
the door and seemed to pass out of it or disappear. Mrs. Duchoux was
not at all frightened, but jumped out of bcel and found the door still
locked on the inside, and the negro girl asleep. She was quite sure that
it was hor aunt's and no other face which she-saw, and that sho should hear of
Digitized by Google
128 Report of tke Literar!1 Oommittee. [Dec. 9,
her death. My mother told her that she must have dreamed the whole scene ;
but nevertheless was so far impreBBed bythe woman's reiteratedassurance that
she had been wide awake, that she at once made a note of the statement, with
the date. On the arrival of the packet which left England shortly after the
date of the apparition a letter reached Mrs. Duchoux, informing her that her
aunt had died just about the date of the vision, and had in her will left her
£100. I cannot say that the time of the apparition coincided exactly with
the last moments of the deceased. I doubt if this was inquired into at the
time. But. I remember that my mother stated that the woman had not
previously heard anything to make her anxious about her aunt."
The next account has been placed at our disposal by the Miss
Sarah Jardine of the following story :-
(xi.) "In 1833, Sarahand Margaret Jardine, daughters of a barrister on the
Western Circuit, were girls of about ten and twelve respectively. They lived.__-
with their parents in a house in the suburbs ofLondon, and their grandfather
and grandmother on the opposite side of the road. Their grandmother was
a woman of decided character and very firm will, and between her and the
children there was strong affection. One night as the children lay in their
four~post bed, sleeping as they did with a rush light in the room, Sarah saw
her grandmother in her night-dreBS standing at the foot of the bed, looking
at them with a pleased smile on her face. She moved round the bed, keeping
her eyes constantly fixed upon the children, till she passed behind the curtain
at the head of the bed on Sarab'a side, and seemed to sit down on the chair
that was placed there. Sarah raised herself up and drew back the curtain in
order to speak to her, when, to her great surprise, she saw no one there. She
was not at all frightened, and awoke her sister, saying, ~'Grandmamma is in
the room.' They both got up and looked about for her, and finding that
there really was no one in the room, Margaret said that her sister must have
been dreaming, and scolded her for awaking her. In the morning they were
awoke by their father, who told them that a ·dreadful thing had happened,
that their grandmamma had died in the course of the night. She had been
ailing, but nothing serious had been apprehended until her son wassent for,
after the children had gone to bed. On hearing that her grandmother was
dead, Sarah became much terrified at the thought of having Been a ghost and
gave a violent scream, without saying anything of the cause of her fright. A--
day or two afterwards her sister told what Sarah had seen, and in order to
reassure her tlley tried to persuade her that it had been a dream. But she
herself was quite certain that it was not; and for long afterwards she had
such a dread of seeing the apparition again that they dared not leave her
alone at night. After the lapse of more than forty years she still retains the
most vivid remembrance of the whole incident."
We received the next narrative from Mrs. Hunter, of 2, Ellesmere
Villas, Forest Hill, who is personally known to the Secretaries :-
(xii.) Mrs. Hunter had had a friend from whom slle had parted in coldness,
and whom she had not since seen or corresponded with. "PoorZ. was veryfar
from my thoughts, when one night I had just got into bed. The fire burned
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of tke Literary Committee. 129
brightly, and there was my usual night-light. I was placing my head on the
pillows, when I beheld, close to the side of the bed, and on a level with it,
Z.'s head, and the same wistful look on his face which it had worn when we
parted years before. Starting up, I cried out, 'What do you want 1 ' I did
not fear ; anger was my feeling. Slowly it retreated, and just as it disap-
peared in the shadow of the wall, a bright spark of light shone for a few
seconds, and slowly expired. A few days after my sister wrote, 'You will
have heard of poor Z.'s death, on his way to the South of France.' I had
heard nothing about him for years. Special reasons prevented my inquiring
particularly into the precise moment of his death. Strange to say, my bed-
fellow was his great pet among my children; she, however, slept through this
strange interview."
The next account, also givento us by Mrs. Hunter, is made specially
-zemarkable by the prolonged character of the apparition, and tho
number of persons by whom it was seen :-
(xiii.) Mrs. Hunter's husband had had a Scotch wet-nurse of the old-
fashioned sort, more devoted to him than even to her own children. Mrs.
Hunter, soon after her marriage, made acquaintance with this nurse, Mrs.
Macfarlane, who paid her several visits during Mr. Hunter's absence in India.
In June, 1857, Mrs. Hunter, who was travelling to a health-resort, confided to
Mrs. Macfarlane's keeping a box of valuables. One evening in the following
August Mrs. Hunter:was entertaining some friends ; but llaving occasion to
return to the dining-room for a moment, she passed the open door of ller
bedropm, and felt irresistibly impelled to look in ; and there on the bed was
a large coffin, and sitting at the foot of it was a tall old woman stedfastly
regarding it. " Returning to my friends, I announced the vision, which was
received with shouts of laughter, in which after a time I joined. However,
I had seen what I have described, and, moreover, could have told the very
dress the old woman wore. When Illy friends left, and I had paid my usual
last visit to the nursery, my nurse looked odd and diBt1'aite, and to my
astonishment followed me on to the landing. ' 0 ma'am,' she began, 'I feel
so queer, such a strange tlling hapPened. At seven o'clock I went to the
__kitchen for hot water, and when I came out I saw a tall old woman coming
downstairs, and I stopped to let her pass, but, ma'am, t1lere was something
strange about her, so I turned·to look after her. The hall door was wide
open, and she was making for it, when in a moment she melted away. I can
swear I saw her, and can tell you her very dress, a big, black poke bonnet
and a checked bla.ck and white shawL'" This deseription of the dress exactly
corresponded witl1 what Mrs. Hunter had llerself seen. Mrs. Hunter
laughed the matter off, and did not even think of connecting her own vision
witl1 the nurse's. About half-an-hour afterwards, when in bed, she heard Ii
piercing scream from her little daughter, aged five, followed by loud,
frightened tones, and she then heard the nurse soothing the child. "Next
morning little E- was full of her wrongs. She said that 'a naughty old
woman was sitting at the table and staring at her, and that made her scream.'
Nurse told me that she found the clilld wide awake, sitting up in bed, point-
ing to the table, and crying out, 'Go away, go away, naughty old woman !'
K
Digitized by Google
130 RepGrt oj tke Literary Committee. [Dec. 9,
There was no one therll. Nurse had been in bed some time and the door
was locked. My child's vision I treated as I did her nurse's, and dosed
both. However, a day or two afterwards, I received a letter from Mrs.
Macfarlane's son, announcing her death, and telling me how her last hours
were disturbed by anxiety for my husband and his family. My nurse, on
being told the news, exclaimed, 'Good Lord, it was he!" I saw that night,
and her very dress !' I never ascertained the exact hour of her death. My
letter of inquiry and condolence was never answered, though my box was
duly sent to me."
The following account, given us by Mr. C. Colchester, of Bushey
Heath, Herts, somewhat resembles the last, in that the apparition was
seen by three persons and in two different rooms :-
(xiv.) "Forty-two or three years ago my father was with a detachment of
his regiment, the Royal Artillery, stationed at Montreal, Canada. He had left-
his mother some months before in England in an indifferent state of health.
One evening he was sitting at his desk, writing to her, when my mother, look-
ing up from her work, was startled to see his mother looking over his shoulder,
seemingly intent on the letter. My mother gave a cry of alarm, and on my
father turning round the apparition vanished. On the same evening I and my
brother (aged about six and five years) were in bed, watching the bright moon-
light, when suddenly we saw a figure, a lady with her hands folded on her
breast, walking slowly, between the bed and the window, backwards and for-
wards. She wore a cap with a frill tied under her chin, and a dressing-gown
of the·appearance of white flannel, her white hair being neatly arranged. She
continued to walk, it seemed to me, fully five minutes, and then was gone.
We did not cry out, and were not even alarmed, but after her disappearance
we said to each other, 'What a nice, kind lady!' and then went to sleep."
The children mentioned what thoy had seen to their mother next morning,
but were told not to talk about it. The news of their grandmother's death
on that same evening arrived a few weeks afterwards. "I may add," Mr.
Colchester concludes, "that neither I nor my brother had ever seen our
grandmother till that evening, nor knew of what my mother had seen till
years after. The apparition I saw is as palpably before me now as it was
forty years since."
Mr. Colchester also sends us the following extract from a MS. work
on Bermuda, written by his late father, who, at the time of the occur-
rence narrated, was assistant-surgeon in the Royal Artillery. We
abridge the extract, and give the full names of the two officers, viz.,
Lieutenants Creigh and Liston, which were given in initial in the MS.
The author had the account from Lieutenant Creigh, and pledged him-
self to its strict accuracy.
(xv.) "The passage from Bermuda to Halifax is incertain seasons hazard-
ous, and in 1830 a transport, containing some two hundred and twenty men,
was lost at sea between these two ports. Two officers of the regiment to which
the detachment had belonged had, in a half-jestingway, made asort ofpromise
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report oj the Literary Oommittee. 131
that whoever died first should come back if he could and let the other know
whether there was another world. This conversation was heard by the
narrator, as it took place in his presence, perhaps a year before the events
happened, though not remembered till afterwards. . Liston embarked in charge
of the detachment, and had been gone about a fortnight, when Creigh, who
had one night left the mess early and retired to bed, and was beginning to
close his eyes, saw his door open and Liston enter. Forgetting his absence
and thinking he had come to pull him out of bed (for practical joking was
then more commOll in the army than it is now), he cried, 'No, no, d-n it,
Liston, don't, old fellow! I'm tired! Be off !' But the vision came nearer
the bed foot, and Creigh then saw that Liston looked as if very ill (for it was
bright moonlight), and that his hair seemed wet and hung down over his face
like a drowned man's. The apparition moved its head mournfully; and when
Creigh in surprise sat up, rubbed his eyes, and looked again, it was ~one.
_~ Still Creigh avers that all this time he had no idea of its being a spectre, and,
oolieving that he had seen Liston himself, he went to sleep. In the morning
he related the occurrence, when he recollected, but not till then, Liston's
absence on duty from the island."
In this case it is of course impossible to say whether the transport
founded at the precise moment that the vision occurred. We may
remark in passing that a large proportion of these appearances.at death
seem to have been preceded by some such half-jesting compact as
existed between Liston and ereigh.
The following narrative is from Mr. P. H. Berthon, F.R.G.S., &c.:-
(xvi) "Some years ago, when residing at Walthamstow, in Essex, my wife
and self became intimate with a lady and gentleman who had become
temporarily our near neighbours. On one occasion, when they were dining
with us quite en jamille, my friend and I, on repairing to the drawing-room,
not long after the ladies had left us, were surprised to find that his wife
had been suddenly taken with a kind of fainting fit, and had been obliged to
return home accompanied by one of our female servants. My wife, as a
matter of course, went the next day to inquire after her friend, who then
told her that the cause of her sudden indisposition had been the appearance,
- - as if in her actual person standinl;: before her, of one of her two sisters, who
were then residing with their mother at Beyrout, in Syria, which had greatly
alarmed her. Communication by telegraph had not then been established,
and by post it was much slower than at present. Many days had therefore
elapsed before the lady received letters from Beyrout, but on their arrival
they conveyed the intelligence that her sister had died on the day and,
allowing for the difference in the time, at about the hour of her appearance
to our friend."
The next account is from Miss Peard, of Spamon, Torquay, a.
member of our Society, who has rendered us most valuable assistance.
She received it direct from the Miss H., a connection of her own, whose
experience is recorded :-
(xvii.) "Some thirty years ago, or more, an English regiment waa
K 2
Digitized by Google
132 Report 01 tke Literary Committee.
quartered in Upper Canada. One of the oftice1'8, a Mr. W., admired a young
Canadian lady very much, and was a great deal at her father's house. He
was a great rider, and in one race had received an injury to his leg which
crushed the bone, and produced a slight halt. On a certain day Mr. W.
rode and won a hurdle race; the young lady, Miss H., had been present
at the race. She then wore a very pretty rose, and Mr. W. suggested
beforehand that it should be given to the winner. He claimed it immedi-
ately, and also engaged her for two or three dances at a baJ.l to be given
by her father that evening.
"Evening came and the guests arrived, but no Mr. W. Miss.H.
was rather vexed at his lateness, and spoke of it to one or two gentle-
men, particularly when the dances began which she had promised to give
him. But as she felt sure he would appear, she refused to dance them
with· othe1'8. Presently, as she was standing and talking to three of these
gentlemen, Mr. D. A., Mr. R. P., and another, they all saw Mr. W....~
come into the room, look steadily and calmly at her, and pass into the
dining-room. He was dressed in ordinary evening dress, in his red shell
jacket, &nd there was nothing remarkable about his appearance. She
thought it strange that he did not come to speak to her, and alluded to it
to the other gentlemen, saying she thought Mr. W. was really the rudest
nian she ever saw, and laughing, followed him into the dining-room. There,
however, he was not. The other gentlemen had seen him as well as she,
and, I believe, her mother also. The time was quarter-past ten.
" The whole affair piqued and vexed her a good deal. The next morning
her father came hastily into the room, and asked her if she had Dot seen Mr.
W. the night before. She said • yes,' and that he had acted very oddly in
only just appearing for a moment, and in not even speaking to her. Her
father then told her that on that morning his body had been found in the
river. His watch had stopped at quarter-past ten, which was· the hour at
which he had been seen in the ball-room. The rose Miss H. gave him
was still in his button-hole."
The Rev. Canon Eyre, of Bray, County Wicklow, writes to us !IS
follows:-
(xviii.) "On the 5th of September, 1876, there was a rebratta on tho
Shannon. Two young friends of oUl'B (Irwin and Charles Coghlan) had a
yacht to sail. On the 4th (a stormy day), they sailed to the opposite shore
for a young friend they expected; in midway the squall upSet their yacht,
and they, with their boy, were drowned. The writer of the subjoined
account is my daughter. She and her sister thought the two young gentle-
men were coming to bring them in their yacht to their father's, for a party
there next evening. On the 5th my daughte1'8 were going in my carriage-a
distance of ten miles; when half-way they were stopped by Mr. Coghlan'S
servant with a hurried note, giving the sad report of the loss of his two
sons, the boy, and the boat. The apparition was at the same hour as their
loss. They also appeared to their mother, who now lives in Rathgar.
Dublin, a widow."
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of the Literary Oommittee. 133
The daughter's account here referred to is as follows :-
"With reference to the apparition of the two gentlemen which 1
saw, the facts are as follows :-1 was in our dining-room (portumna Rectory)
about eleven o'clock on the morning of the 4th September, 1867, when, on
looking out of the window, 1 saw the two young gentlemen in question
coming in at the avenue gate, and a boy with them. I then left tlle room to
tell my mother they were coming. My sister, who was in the room at the
time, did not see them. It was about the time they met with thAir sn.d end."
4. Impreasion from G person 'Who is euited or in. dangll'l·•.
We proceed now to the class of cases where the Agent was not at
~r near the point of death, but in some condition of abnormal dis-
turbance or excitement--a class of which a few well-authenticated
~xamples were given in the latter part of the First Report on Thought-
-~transference. (Proc. S.P.R., p. 60). A well-established case has lately
become widely known through its being mentioned in the Life of the
Jate Bishop Wilberforce, the passage from which we subjoin.
" The Bishop was in his library at Cuddesdon with three or four of his
1llergy writing with him at the same table. The Bishop suddenly raised his
hand to his head, and exclaimed, '1 am certain that something has happened
to one of my 8Ons.' It afterwards transpired that just at that time his eldest
son's foot (who was at sea) was badly crushed by an accident on board his
ship. The Bishop himself records the circumstance in a letter to Miss Noel,
dated March 4th, 1847; he writes: 'It is curious that at the time of his
.accident 1 was 80 possessed with the depressing consciousness of some evil
having befallen my son Herbert, that at last on the third day after, the 13th,
.r wrote down that I was quite unable to shake oft' the impression that some-
thing had happened to him, and noted this down for remembrance.' ..
The following account was given us by Mrs. Gates, of 24, Mont-
;pallier Road, Brighton, whom we know personally, and who has given
us several instances of the singular sympathy existing between herself
and her children, and manifesting itself by marked disquiet at moments
-.... when they are in danger or pain, although she may have no means
of knowing it. The fact, in the present instance, of her premonitory
alarm and vision of blood, has been confirmed to us mdependently
by the daughter to whom she described it. We supprells the son's
name, and that of the monastery where he resides.
(xix.) "One August morning at breakfast the well-known feeling stole over
me. Waiting till all had left the table excepting my second daughter, I·
remarked to her, 'I am feeling 80 restless about one of my absent boys ! It is
- - ; and I feel as if I was looking at blood! , .. The son in question, in II.
letter received a few days later, inquired of Mrs. Gates as follows-" Write in
your next if you had any presentiments during last week. We were going to
.- canal, fishing, and 1 got up at the first sound of the bell, and, taking m1
Digitized by Google
134 Rep()1't of the Literar!l Oommittee. [Dec. 9,.
razor to shave, began to sharpen it on my hand, and being, I suppose, onl,
half awake, failed to turn the razor, and cut a piece clean out of my left hand.
An artery was cut in two pIsces, and bled dreadfully." Further details are
given which shew that the pain and bleeding were probablyat their maximum.
at the hour of Mrs. Gates's breakfast that same morning.
The next account is from Mr. R. Fryer, of Bath:-
(xx.) "A strange experience occurred in the autumn of the year 1879. A
brother of mine had been from home for three or four days, when, one after-
noon, at half-past five (as nearly as possible), I was astonished to hear my
name called out very distinctly. I 80 clearlyrecognised my brother's voice that
I looked all over the houst' for him, but not finding him and, indeed, knowing
that he must be distant some forty miles, I ended by attributing the incident
to a fancied delusion, and thought no mot.e about the matter. On mybrother's
arrival home, however, on the sixth day, he remarked amongst other things
that he had narrowly escaped an ugly accident. It appeared that whilst
getting out from a railway carriage he missed his footing, and fell aleng the
platform; by putting out his hands quickly he broke the fall and only
suffered a severe shaking. 'Curiously enough,' he said, 'when I found my--
self falling I called out your name.' This did not strike me for a moment,
but on my asking him during what part of the day this happened, he gave me
the time, which I found corresponded exactly with the moment I heard
myself called."
We are allowed to publish the following letter, written by a
clergyman to his daughter, who is an intimate friend of the Secretaries:-
(xxi.) "When your brother E. was at Winchester College (about 1856 or
1857) on going to bed one Saturdaynight, I could not sleep. When your mothep
came into the room, she found me restless and uneasy. I told her that a
strong impression had seizedme thatsomething had happened to your brother.
The next day, your mother, on writing to E., asked me if I had any message
for him, when I replied: 'Tell him I particularly want to know if anything
happened to him yesterday.' Your mother laughed, and made the remark
that I should be frightened if a letter in Dr. Moberly's handwriting reachefl.
us on Monday. I replied, 'I should be afraid to open it.' On the Monday
morning a letter did come from Dr. Moberly to tell me that E. had met with
an accident, that one of his schoolfellows had thrown a piece of cheese at him
which had struck one of his eyes; and that the medical man, Mr. Wickham,
thought I had better come down immediately and take your brother to a
London oculist."
The next narrative is from-Canon Sherlock, of Sherlockstown, Naas:
(xxii.) "During the Indian mutiny my brother was serving (as ensign) in
the 72nd Highlanders. At that time I was an undergraduate of T. C. D.
and living at Sandycove, near Kingstown. One night, about two o'clock,
I was reading by the fire when I heard myself distinctly called by my
brother, the tone of his voice being somewhat raised and urgent. Looking
round I saw his head and the upper part of his body quite plainly. He-
appeared to be looking at me, and was about seven or eight feet distant. I
looked steadily at him for about half a minute, when he seemed gradually to-
fade into a mist and disappear.
Digitized by Google
--
1882.J RepfJrt of ihe Litera1"y Oommitiee. 135
" The date of this occurrence I unfortunately lost no~e of, but upon my
brother's return from India, and my casually mentioning that I had 80 seen
him, we talked the matter over, and both came to the conclusion that the
apparition coincided with a dangerous attack of illness in which my brother
suddenly awoke with the impression that l1e was suffocating, at which
moment he thought of me. The attack was brought on by sleeping during
a forced march through a country great part of which was under water.
" This is the only apparition that I have experienced, and there was no
anxiety on my mind which could have given rise to it, as we had quite recently
had a letter from my brother, written in good health and spirits."
The next Il.ccount was given us' by Mrs. Swithinbank, of Ormleigh,
Anerley Park, S.E., with whom several of us are personally acquainted:-
(xxiii) "When my son H. was a boy, lone daysaw him off to school, watch-
ing him down the grove, and then went into the library to sit, a room I rarely
_~_used at that time of the day. Shortly after, he appeared, walking over the
wall opposite the window. The wall was about thirteen feet distant from the
window, and low, 80 that when my son stood on it, his face was on a level with
mine, and close to me. I hastily threw up the sash, and called to ask why he
had returned from school, and why he was there; he did not answer, but
looked full at me with a frightened expression, and dropped down the other
side of the wall and disappeared. Never doubting but that it was some boyish
trick, I called a servant to tell him to come to me, but not a trace of him was
to be found, though there was no screen or place of concealment. I myself
searched with the same result. As I sat still wondering where and how he
had 80 suddenly disappeared, a cab drove up with H. in an almost unconscious
state, brought home bya friend and schoolfellow, who said that during a dicta-
tion lesson he had suddenly fallen backward over his seat, calling out in
a shrill voice, •Mamma will know,' and becoming insensible. He was ill that
day, prostrate the next; but our doctor could not account for the attack, nor
did anything follow to throw any light on his appearance to'me. That the
time of his attack exactly corresponded with that at which I saw his figure,
was proved both by his master and class-mates." The Rev. H. Swithinbank,
eldest son of the writer of the above, explains that the point at which the
figure was seenwas in a direct line between the house (situated in Summerhill
Terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne) and the school, but tllat, "no anima; but a bird
could come direct. that way," and that the walking distallce between the two
places was nearly a mile. He describes his brother as of a nervous tem-
perament, but his mother as just the opposite, a calm person, who has never
in her life had any other similar experience.
Still more remarkable is the following case, from the fact that the
exciting experience on the part of the Agent was not of pain or danger,
but only of strong momentary surprise and shock. The account is from
Mr. R. P. Roberts, 10, Exchange Street, Cheetham, Manchester, who is
personally known to one of us.
(xxiv.) ..When I was an apprentice in a drapery establishment, I used to go
to dinner at 12 and return at 12.30. My employer was very strict and hot-
tempered, which made me anxious to avoid his displeasure. The shop stood
Digitized by Google
136 Report oj the Litera") Committee. [Dec. 9,
at the comer of Castlo-Btreet and Rating Row, Beaumaria, and I lived in the
latter Btreet. One day I went home to dinner at the Ulual hour. When I
had partly finished I looked at the clock. To my astonishment it appeared
that the time by the clock was 12.30. I gave an unusual Btart. I certainly
thought it was moat extraordinary. I had only half finished mydinner and it
was time for me to be at the &hop. I felt dubious, so in a few Becpnda had
another look, when to my agreeable surprise I found that I had been miBtaken.
It was only just turned 12.15. I could never explain how it was that I made
the mistake. The error gave me such a &hock that for a few minutes I felt
as if something serioUl had happened, and had to make an eft'ort to shake oft
the sensation.
"I finished my dinner and returned to bUlinOSB at 12.30. On entering
the SllOp I was accosted by Mrs. Owen, my employer'B wife, who Uled to
assist in the businesa. She asked me rather sternly where I had been since
my return from dinner 1 I replied that I had come straight from dinner. A
long disouBBion followed which brought out the following facts. About a.-
quarter of an hour previouB to my actually entering the shop (i.e., at about
12.15) I was seen by Mr. and Mrs. Owen, and a well-known customer, a Mrs.
Jones, to walk into the shop, go behind the counter, and pla.oe my hat OD
the peg. As I was going behind the counter Mrs. Owen remarked, with the
intention th!!.t! should hear, 'that I had arrived now that I was not
wanted.• This remark was prompted by the fact that a few minutes previous
a cup-tomer was in the shop in want of an article which belonged to the stock
under my charge, and which could not be found in my absence. As soon as
this customer left I was seen to enter the shop. It was observed by Mr. and
Mrs. Owen and Mrs. Jones that I did not appear to notice the remark made.
In fact, I looked quite absent-minded and vague. Immediately after putting
1I1y hat on the peg I returned to the same Bpot, put my hat on again, and
walked out of the &hop, still looking in a very mysterious manner, which
incenBed one of the partieB, I think Mrs. Ow.en, to say, 'that my behaviour
was very odd, and she wondered where I was oft' to.' I, of course, contra-
dictecl these statements, and endeavoured to prove that I could not have eaten
my dinner and returned in a quarter of an hour. This, however, availed
nothing, and during our diacussion the above-mentioned Mrs. Jones came
into the shop again, and was appealed to at once by Mr. and Mrs. Owen.
She corroborated every word of their account, and added tlmt she saw me
coming down Rating Row when within a few yards of the shop; that she was
only a step or two behind me, and entered the &hop in time to hear Mrs.
Owen's remark about my coming too late. These three persona gave their
statement of the aft'air quite independently of each other. There was no
other person near my age in the Owena' employment, and there could be
no reasonable doubt that my form had been seen by them and by Mrs.
Jones. They would not believe my story till my aunt, who had dined
with me, said positively that I did not leave the table before my time
was up. You will, no doubt, notice the coincidence. At the moment whenI felt,
with a startling sensation, that I ought to be at the shop, and when Mr.
and Mrs. Owen were extremely anxious that I should be there, I appeared
to them, looking, as they said, 'as if in a dream or in 0. state of
somnambulism.' ..
Digitized by Google
1882.J Rf'jJort of the Literary Oommittee. 137
Of a. still TaTeT type is the next a.ccount, where an impression,
though unmistakably produced, was only physically felt, and not
understood by the Percipient. Ithas been placed at our disposal by our
friend, Mr. F. Oorder, a gAntleman of very high TAputo.t.ion in the
musical world.
(xxv.) "On July 8, 1882, my wife went to London to ha.ve an operation
(which we both believed to be a slight one) performed on her eyes by the late
Mr. Critchett. The appointment was for 1.30, and, knowing from long previous
-experience the close sympathy of our minds, about that time I, at Brighton,
got rather fidgety, and was much relieved-and perhaps a little surprised and
disappointed-at not feeling any decided sensation which I could construe as
aympathetic. Taking it therefore for granted that all was well, I went out at
2.45 to conduct my concert at the Aquarium, expecting to find there a tele-
gram, as had been arranged, to say that all was well. On my way I stopped,
- -as usual, to compare my watch with the big clock outside Lawson's, the
c1ockmaker's. At that instant I felt my eyes fiooded with water, just as when
a. chill wind gives one a sudden cold in the eyes, though it was a hot. still
summer's day. The affection was so unusual and startling that my attention
could not but be strongly directed to it; yet, the time being then eleven
minutes to three, I was sure it eould have nothing to do with my wife's
operation, and, as it continued for some little time, thought I must have
taken cold. However, it passed off, and the concert immediately afterwards
put it out of my mind. At 4.0 I received a telegram from my wife
'All well over. A great success, ' and this quite took away all anxiety.
But on going to town in the evening, I found her in a terrible state of
nervous prostration; and it appeared that the operation, though marvel-
lously successful, had been of a very severe character. Quite accidentally
it came out that it was not till 2.30 that Mrs. Corder entered the
operating-room, and that the operation commenced, after the due
administration of an anmsthetic, at about ten minutes to three, as near as we
.could calculate."
1J. AGENT AND PERCIPIENT BOTIl IN AN ABNon~lAL CONDITION.
Finally, a third great class remains to be considered-that, namely,
where both the parties concerned are in a state to some extent abnormal.
_ 1. Two peTII01tS dying or in peril at the same moment.
Cases where two persons, between whom the supposed rapport
exists, are· dying at a distance from each other at the same time, must
of course be extremely rare; but the effect of severe illness in producing
or heightening the sensibility to an impression of a distant catastrophe
is illustrated in the following account, lately contributed to Knowledge
of December 2, 1882, by Mr. J. Sinclair;-
(xxvi.) "A friend of mine (Dr. Goodall Jones, of Liverpool) related to lUll the
138 Report 0/ the Literary Oommittee. [Dec. 9,.
following account of a case of premonition." The names and dates Dr.
Jones will give, if required. He called on a female patient on Sunday
afternoon at three o'clock; her husband met him at the door, and said he was
about to come for him, as the patient was worse and delirious. On going
up-stairs, the doctor found the poor woman in a very excited state, asserting.
that ller brother (a Liverpool pilot) was drowning in the river; 'which,' said
·her husband, ' is impossible, as he is out at sea, to the best of our know-
ledge.' The doctor did what he could to soothe his patient, and left,
. convinced that it was a case of ordinary delirium. But in the next morning's
paper he read with surprise the account of the pilot's death by drowning in
the river on the previous afternoon at three o'clock." .
2. 8imultaneou3 dreams.
Cases, again, where it is asserted that two persons, both ent.nced at
the same time, have been together in the spirit, as in Swedenborg'~..
accounts of spiritual converse with persons apparently asleep, have'
lacked the corroboration necessary for sound evidence. But trans-
ferences of impression of the nature of simultaneous dreams are by no·
means rare, and are easily established. We have received one singular
case where a strong nocturnal impression was reproduced even in &
multiple form. Most of the persons concerned in this story are friends
or acquaintances of the Secretaries of the Committee, and all the initials
and localities were entrusted to us for pUblication; but as the matter is
a delicate one, and the initials would probably have been recognised,
we prefer to call the personages A., X., Y., and Z., and merely to.
say that they were resident in four separate countries of Europe.
(xxvii.) On the night ofAugust 23-24,1882, "Iwoke,"saysA, "aftermidnight
with a sense of great anxiety, a sense that a spiritual message of vital import-
ance had gone to X. by mistake." A.'s first letter, written to X. early in
the morning of August 24th, cannot be found; but on the receipt of that
letter, X. wrote, "Your letter astonished me. Yesterday morning early,
before it was light, I woke up at --, with just this feeling of warning.
Something was saying to me, 'This is for the last time; it is wrong and
must not be.' In the darkness it gave me a horrible feeling." This feeling -'
of moral warning was vaguely connected with A. in X.'s mind. The same
post which brought X.'s letter to A., brought also letters from Y. and Z.
Y., a correspondent from whom A. only heard about once a year, wrote
soon after midnight of August 24-25. His letter, which was in metre,
expressed a vague but strong feeling of anxious sympathy. In point of date
Z.'s letter was more precisely coincident with A.'s primary impression; for it
conveyed an inquiry as to A.'s well-being, prompted by an alarming dream
.. The word "premonition" is inaocurate, the event recounted being simply
one of simultaneous impression. We have received confirmation of this narrative
from Dr. Goodall Jones j and as soon as the husband, who is a sailor, returns
from sea, we hope to receive from him and his wife that direct testimony which
we make a rule of obtaining in every oase where any living person is concerned.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report qf the Literary Oommittee. 139>
which had visited Mrs. Z. on the night of August 23-24. "I seemed first,",
says Mrs. Z. in a subsequent letter, "to have a vague feeling of your·
presence; then to see you in a central spot of light with darkness everywhere
else. I stood in the edge of the darkneBB, looking at you with sympathy,
pity, and a little morbid curiosity which disturbed me, and made me wish
that you would speak and break the spell that held me waiting (as I felt) for
a clear revelation of what was lying heavily upon your soul. You raised
your head as I watched you, and turned unseeing eyes towards me. The
expreBBion was of hopeleBB, despairing bewilderment. You had the appear-
ance of a person who knows himself to be alone. As your eyes passed over
me again, still unseeing, I knew that I was there in spirit only,
and was about to hear and see and know things that I should
not. I forced myself away into the darkness, and then into waking.'"
"To me alone, perhaps," says A., "these matters carry much significance.
I was greatly troubled at that time about a case of conscience, which I could
--Dot solve, and which all my will prompted me to solve wrongly." We may'
add that none of these friends, though linked with A. by close bonds of
sympathy, were cognisant of the case of conscience in question.
In Macmillan's Magazine for October, 1882, was recorded
a very interesting case of a somewhat similar type. The writer, Miss.
Mason, of whose punctilious care in observation we have had personal
experience, was suffering from the excitement of painful sympathy with,
certain events actually in course of occurrence; and the vivid natural
imagery in which her trouble was represented during a night of dis-
turbed sleep, imagery drawn from a unique spot known to her and'
totally unknown to her maid, who was sleeping on another floor, was.
reflected in that maid's dreams with startling accuracy.
3. Percipient asleep and Agent excited.
Commoner still are the cases of double abnormality, where the·
transference of impression is to a sleeping Percipient from an Agent
who is in some state of waking excitement. Such excited states, when
below a certain stage of momentousness, seem to find in sleep a.
-specially favourable condition for communication; and indeed, putting
aside cases where mesmeric influence plays some part, the very slightest
sort of events seem rarely or never to impress a distant mind except in
dream. Owing to their very triviality, many of these experiences are-
doubtless lost; and this circumstance so far helps to perpetuate the
unscientific view, which looks on transferred impressions as necessarily
bound up with some solemn message or stlange catastrophe. As an.
example of the trivial type, we may give the following narrative, which
we received from Mr. A. B. McDougall, scholar of Lincoln College,
Oxford:-
(xxviii.) "On the night of January 10,1882, I was sleeping in one of the
suburbs of Manchester in the house of a friend, into which house several lats
Digitized by Google
140 lleport of the Litera,,}, Oommittee. [Dec 9,
had been driven by the excessivecold. I knew nothing about these rata, but
during the night I was waked by feeling an unpleasantly cold somethlDg
.-slithering down my right leg. I immediately struck a light and flung oft' the
bed-clothes, and saw a rat run out of my bed under the fire-place. I told
my friend the next morning, but he tried to persuade me I had been dream·
ing. However, a few days afterwards a rat was caught in my room. On tke
morning of January 11, a cousin of mine, who happened to be staying in
my own home on the south coast, and to be occupying my room, came down
to breakfast, and recounted a marvellous dream, in which a rat appeared to
be eating oft' the extremities of my unfortunate self. My family laughed the
matter oft'. However, on the 13th, a letter was received from me giving aD
account of my unpleasant meeting with the rat and ita subsequent capture.
Then every one present remembered the dream my cousin had told certainly
fifty-eight hours before, as having occurred on the night of January 10. My
mother wrote me an account of the dream, ending up with the remark, 'We
.always aaid--was a witch j sbe a.lwa.ys knew about everything alm():~
before it took place.' "
The heightening effect of sleep on the Percipient's impressibility,
.suggested by the triviality of such an incident as this, is more strikingly
indicated by the fact that a transferred impression of graver matters
seems sometimes to have to wait for the sleeping state, in order to
cross the threshold of consciousness. Many cases are on record where
an accident to an absent friend is dreamed of on the following night;
as though the image, flashed, perhaps, at the moment from brain to
brain, had needed sleep and darkness for its development.
Sleep, again, seems the only condition in which imprt:ll8ionB of
-excitement of a happy kind are transferred, which may perhaps be
taken as indicating the superior vividness of pains over pleasures. We
are at any rate .acquainted with no instance of a waking impression to
parallel the account of a dream (for which we have the testimony both
of the dreamer, Mr. A. Sparrow, of Derwent Square, Liverpool, and of
the person to whom he related the dream on the morning after its occur-
rence), announcing, many hours before their arrival by post, the detail!._
of a friend's most unexpected marriage engagement. Of the far
-commoner transference to a sleeping Percipient of the impression of a
distressing accident, we have many instances; and many more still of
the apparition of a dying person perceived by a distant mind in dream
or vision. Cases of transference where the Agent is in this most
momentous of all conditions, seem, however, to differ, as a class,
from the less momentous cases, in the fact that the number of
them where the Percipient is asleep, large as it is, is disproportionately
exceeded by the number where the Percipient is in a state of
normal waking consciousness. 'Ve give a few specimens of these
last classes.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of the Literary Oommittee. 141
4. Percipient asleep and Agent dying.
The Rev. R. B. F. Elrington, Vicar of Lower Brixham, a friend of
one of us, vouches for the fact that the following occurrence in his
parish was described hours before the arrival of the news confirming
the fears which it occasioned j and he certifies to the good character of
the witnesses.
(xxix.) In the early spring of 1881,Mrs. Barnes, of Brixham, Devonshire,
whose husband was at sea, dreamt that his fishing-vessel was run into .by a
steamer. Their boy was with him, and she called out in her dream, "Save-
the boy !" At this moment another son sleeping in the next room rushed
into hers, crying out, "Where's father 1" She asked what he meant,when he-
said he haddistinctly heard his father come upstairs and kick with his heavy
boots against the door, as he was in the habit of doing when he returned
·-hom sea. The boy's statement and her own dream so alarmed the woman
that early next morning she told Mrs. Strong and other neighbours of her-
fears. News afterwards came that her husband's vessel had beenrun into bY'
a steamer, and that he and the boy were drowned.
Mrs. Powles, of 'Wadhurst, West Dulwich, S.E., who is pArRonally
known to one of us, sends us the following narrative :-
(xxx.) "I am in a position to vouch for a very curious dream which mylat&
husband, Mr. William Holden, dreamt about a brother of his, Dr. Ralph
Holden, who was at that time travelling in the interior of Africa. One
morning in June or July, 1861, my husband woke me with the announcement,
'Ralph is dead.' I said, 'You must be dreaming.' ' No, I am not dreaming
now, but I dreamt twice over that I saw Ralph lying on the ground, supported
by a man. He was lying undera large tree, and he was either deap. or dying.'
In December, came the news that Dr. Holden was dead; and from a Mr.
Green, who had been exploringin the sameregion, they learnt 'that he must.
have diedabout the time when his brother dreamt about him, and that he died
in the arms of his faithful native servant, lying under a large tree, where he
was afterwards buried.' TheHolden family have a sketch which Mr. Green
took on the spot ofthe tree and its surroundings, and on seeingit my husband
-- said, 'Yes, that is exactly the place where I saw Ralph in my drE'.aIIl, dying
or dead.'"
The next account is from a gentleman residing in Ireland, of long-
standing repute both as a doctor and as an antiquary, and whom we
will call A. His wish that his name should not be published is due
to the fact that one of the actors whom his narrative discredits is still
living.
(xxxi.) One Monday night in December, 1836, he had the following dream,
or, as he would prefer to call it, revelation. He found himself suddenly at the
gate of MajorN. M.'s avenue, many miles from his home. Close to him were
a group of persons, one of them a woman with a basket on her arm, the rest
men, four of whom were tenants of his own, while the others were unknown
Digitized by Google
142 .Report oj tke Literary Oommittee. [Dec. 9,
to him. Some of the strangers seemed to be murderously assaUlting H. W.,
one of his tenants, and he interfered. " I struck violently at the man on my
left, and then with greater violence at the man's face to my right. Finding to
my surprise that I did not knock him down either, I struck again and again,
with all the violence of a man frenzied at the sight of my poor friend's murder.
To my great amazement I saw that my arms, although visible to my eye,were
without substance; and the bodies of the men I struck at and my own came
close together after each blow through the shadowy arms I struck with. My
blows were delivered with more extreme violence than I think I ever exerted ;
but I became painfully convinced of my incompetency. I have no conscious-
nellS of wllat happened, after this feeling of unsubstantiality came upon me."
Next morning A. experienced the stiffness and soreness of violent bodily exer-
cise, and was informed by his wife that in the course of the night he lla.d much
alarmed her by striking out again and again with his arms in a terrific manner,
" as if fighting for his life." He in turn informed herof his dream,and begged
her to remember the names of those actors in it who were known to him. On-
the morning of the following day, Wednesday, A. received a letter from his
agent, who resided in the town close to the scene of the dream, informing
him that his tenant, H. W., had been found on Tuesday morning at Major
N. M.'s gate, speechless and apparently dying from a fracture of the skull,
and that there was no trace of the murderers. That night A. started for
the town, and arrived there on Thursday morning. On his way to a meeting
ofmagistrates he met the senior magistrate of that part of the country, and
requested him to give ordersfor the arrest of the three men whom, besides
H. W., he had recognised in his dream, and to have them examined separately.
This was at once done. The three men gave identical accounts of the
occurrence, and all named the woman who was with them; she was then
arrested, and gave precisely similar testimony. They said that between
eleven and twelve on the Monday night they had been walking homewards
all togetheralong the road, when they were overtaken by three strangers, two
of whom savagelyassaultedH. W., while the other prevented his friends from
interfering. H. W. did not die, but was never the same man afterwards; he
subsequentlyemigrated. Of the other parties concerned, the only survivor
(except A. himself) gave an account of the occurrence to the archdeaconof
the district in November, 1881, butvaried from the truefacts in statingthat he
had taken the wounded man homein his cart. Had this been the case he would, _.
of course, have beencalledon for his testimony at once.
The following narrative we have from three independent sources,
viz. (1) Letter from Mr. John C. Strefford, 39, Mount Street, WeIsh-
pool, son of the superintendent of police, whose dream is recordcd
and who is now dead ; (2) Varbal account taken down from Miss
Phillips by Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood; (3) Letter from the Rev.
J. E. Hill, Vicar of Welshpool. All the accounts are practically
identical, the only discrepancy being as to the length of time for which
the girl was imprisoned. We abridge as follows :-
(xxxii.) About 1871, Miss Phillips, of Church Street, WelshpooI,.hada
deaf and dumb maid. This girl fell ill and needed a change of air, and Mias
Digitized by Google
1882.J Jleport of tke Literary Oommittee. 143
Phillipsproposed to send her to herbrother for three wee3:s. The girl was very
unwilling to go, and on the appointed morning, a Tuesday, she handed over
·a tray which she was carrying upstairs to another servant, and was not seen
u.fterwards. Miss Phillips and her friends in great alarm searched the house
allover, including the cellar in which the girl was afterwards found. On the
following Friday (or possibly the Wednesday) morning, the superintendent
of police, Strefford, called and said that he had an impression on his mind
that she was concealed in the house, and begged to be allowed to make search.
Miss Phillips consented, and Strefford, who had never been in the house
-before, walked straight to the door of the cellar stairs and went down. In
the cellar they found the girl jamme!i fast in an open flue directly beneath
the fire-place in the room above, the ashes of which it was meant to
.receive. The· opening from the flue to the cellar was not above eighteen
inches high, and the girl had drawn some carpeting after her so as to conceal
her legs. They had to get bricklayer's tools and dig down the bricks before
-, they could get her out.
Now as to the cause of Strefford's assurance tIlat he would find her there.
"My father," says Mr.John C.Strefford, "awoke my mother in the middle of
the night and said, 'I know where that poor girl is. She is up a chimney in
-the cellar belonging to the house in which she lives.'" He could not rcst
after this; got up at five o'clock, Vlent to the house, and found the girl, as
.above narrated.
DREAMS AND CIIANCE COINCIDENCE.
Since our arrangement of topics has thus brought us round at the
-end to what we started from, sleep or vision on the part of the
Percipient, and since no department of our subject has been the field
-of more folly and superstition than this realm of dreamland, we may
take the present opportunity of stating what kinds of dream we
think deserving of notice. Dreams form, no doubt, the most
assailable part of our evidence. They are placed almost in a
separate category by their intimate connection with the lowest
physical, as well as the highest psychical, operations. The gro-
tesque medley which constantly throng through the gate of ivory
....... thrust into discredit our rarer visitants through the ga.te of horn.
For our purposes, then, the dreams must have been noted down, or
communicated to others, directly after their occurrence. If con·
cerned with grave events, those events must be not of a chronic but
of a critical kind, such as sudden danger or actual death. If concerned
with trivial events, those events must be in some way bizarre or
unexpected, not such everyday occurrences as a visit from a friend
-or the arrival of a present. To all dreams, however, one objection
may be taken which has plausibility enough to be worth a minute's
consideration. It is said that millions of people are dreaming every
nigh.t, and that it might be expected, according to the doctrine of
~hances, that some few out of so vast a multitude of dl't'aJDS would
Digitized by Google
144 Report of the Literary Oommittee. [Dec. 9,
"tum out true." But, in the first place, an extremely small
percentage of this multitude of dreams contain as their single or cul-
minating point the definite sight of some one else in unusual or exciting
circumstances. There are few exceptions to the rule that we are the
heroes of our own dreams, and where a single strong impression survives
the moment of waking, an occurrence which in itself is comparatively
infrequent, the impression is far more often than not of circumstances
in which we ourselves are central. And, in the second place, a dream
which leaves on the mind a sense of interest or of disturbance, extending
far into waking hours, is with most of us a decidedly rare event, and is.
a comparatively rare event even with those to whom it occurs oftenest,
if the number of their dreams be completely realised. The very fact of
a dream being specially remembered and noted may be taken as a proof
of its having been exceptional. Far rarer, of course, are the cases. - -
where these two rare characteristics are combined, and where a vivid
impression of another person in unusual or exciting circumstances,
having been first produced in a dream, survives as a haunting and
disturbing influence. If the dreams of a single night in England could
be couuted, it may be doubted whether so large a proportion as one in
a million would be of this character. And when this immensely
reduced number of dreams is considered, the number of occurrences,
coincidently with the dream, of the identical event dreamed of, so
far from exemplifying the law of chances, would be found to set it
completely at defiance. If it be still objected that this argument at
any rate does not apply to cases of coincidence where the event or
scene is not of an unusual or exciting kind, and is remembered suffi-
ciently to be noted without the production of any haunting
impression, the reply is obvious. Of ordinary and unexciting events
and scenes the number possible to imagination is practically infinite:
the trivial details of circumstances which any single person can in
im agination connect with the various persons of his acquaintance so-
clearly outnumber the remembered dreams of his whole lifetime, as _.
to put the coincidence of dream and reality again completely outside
the law of chances.
CASUAL APPARITIONS.
To return now from this brief digression, our scheme of classifi-
cation, as above sketched, is tolerably obvious; but in looking back
on the topics which have been passed in review, it will be seen that
the logical limits originally proposed, and which would confine the
phenomena to those presenting a distinct analogy to Thought-
transference, have been overstepped at many points. Attention has
already been drawn to the difference between the cases where the
actual impression in A.'s mind is simultaneously reproduced in
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of tke Literary Oornmittee. 145
B.'s, and those where the impression produced in B.'s mind is
that of A.'s personality rather than of his ideas. We described
this more general impact of mind on mind (if such it be) as a.
vivification of some previously existing rapport, and it is to this
head that we must refer many cases of apparition at death and of
so-called clairvfY!lQlllCe. Even this category, however, is not wide
enough to cover all cases of the impression, at a distance, of one
personality on another. We have several instances of the following
type. The two Percipients are personally known to one of us, and are
above suspicion; the reason for suppressing their names is that they
are in the employ of persons whose prejudices or susceptibilities they
are obliged to consider. Mr. M.'s account, which was written down
soon after the occurrence, has been slightly condensed.
(xxxiii.) "On Thursday, the 5th ofSeptember, 1867,about the hour of 10.45
.A.M., on entering my office, I found my clerk in conversation with the porter,
and the Rev. Mr. H. standing at the clerk's back. I was just on the point of
asking Mr. H. what had brought him in so early (he worked in thesame room
asmyseli, but wasnot in the habitofcoming till about mid-da.y) when my clerk
began questioning me about a telegram which had missed me. The conversa-
tion lasted some minutes, and in the midst of it the porter gave me a letter
which explained by whom the telegram had been sent. Duringthis scene
Mr. R., from an office upstairs, came in and listened to what was going on.
On opening the letter, I immediately made known its purport, and looked
M.. H. full in the face as I spoke. I was much struck by the melancholy look
he had, and observed that he was without his neck-tie. At this juncture
Mr. R. and the porter left the room. I spoke to Mr. H., saying, 'Well,
what's the matter with you 1 You look so sour.' He made no answer.
but continued looking fixedly at me. I took up an enclOBure which had
accompanied the letter and read it through, still seeing Mr. H. stand-
ing opposite to me at the comer of the table. As I laid the papers
down, my clerk said ' Here, sir, is a letter come from Mr. H.'
No sooner had he pronounced the name than Mr. H. disappeared
in a second. I was for a time quite dumbfounded, which astonished my
• __ c1erk, who (it now turned out).hii.d not seen Mr. H., and absolutely denied
that he had been in the office th.ii,t moming. The purport of the letter from
Mr. B., which my clerk gave me, and which had been written on the
previous day, was that, feeliDg unwell, he should not come to the office that
Thursday, but requested me· to forward his letters to him at his house. The
next day (Friday), about noon, Mr. H. entered the office; and when I asked
him where he was on the Thursday about 10.45, he replied that he had just
finished breakfast, was in the company of his wife, and had never left his
house during the day. I felt shy of mentioning the subject to Mr. R., but
on the Monday following 1 could not refrain. from asking him if he remem-
bered looking in on Thursday moming. ' Perfectly,' he replied; 'you were
baving a long confab with yourclerk about a telegram, which you subsequently
discovered came from Mr. C.'· On· my asking him if he remembered who
were present, he answered, 'The clerk, the porter, you and H.' On my
L
Digitized by Google
146 Report of the Literary Oommittee. LDec.9,
asking him further, he said, 'He was standing at the comer of the table,
opposite you. I addressed him, but he made no reply, only took up a book
and began reading. I could not help looking at him, as the first thing that
struck me was his being at the office BO early, and the next his melancholy
look, 80 different from his usual manner; but that I attributed to his being
annoyed about the discussion going on. I left him standing in the same
position when I went out, followed by the porter.' On my making known to
Mr. R. that Mr. H. was fourteen miles off the whole of that day, he grew
quite indignant at my doubting the evidence of his eyesight, and insisted 011
the porter being called up and interrogated. The porter, however, like the
clerk, had not seen the figure." .
Mr. R. (whose testimony is, of course, all-important, as precluding the
hypothesis of subjective hallucination, which Mr. M.'s experience might
otherwise have fairly suggested,) has supplied us with independent and precise
corroboration of theBe facts, so far as he was a party to them-the one
insignificant difference being that he says he did not Bpecik to Mr. H., but---
"gesticulated in fun to him, pointing to Mr. M. and the clerk, who wers
having an altercation about a telegram: but my fun did not seem at all
catching, Mr. H. apparently not being inclined, as he often was, to make fun
out of surrounding circumstances."
A case like this cillarly cannot well be brought under the head either
of Thought-transference or of exaltation of rapp()lf't. The latter seems
excluded by the trivial and meaningless nature of the occurrence;
while the prolonged duration of the apparition negatives any basis for
it that we might seek to find in some casual and unheeded image of the
office in London, which may have flitted through Mr. H.'s mind as he
sat at home. Equally purposeless is the following incident, the
account of which is signed by Mrs. Clay (sister of Mr. Gorst, M.P.),
of Cheltenham. Her husband, the Rev. Mr. Clay, published an
account of it in the Spectat()lf' many years ago, under the title of
" Brain-waves."
(xxxiv.) "It was a very wet Sunday afternoon in 1835 or '36,·Mrs. Clay
being at home and Mr. Clay at service in the gaol where he was chaplain. __
Rather before his usual time Mrs. Clay heard her husband return, enter the
house by the back door under the window of the room she was in, hang up
his coal; and hat, saw him enter the room, and, standing at the door, heard
him remark whata wetday it was, and then, after her reply, he went upstairs.
As he did not return, Mrs. Clay ran upstairs to seek him, and concluded he had
gone out again as she could not find him. A little later the whole occurrence
was re·enacted, and on her asking her husband why he had gone out &gaill,
he assured her he had not done so, but had then only just come back from
service. This time it was the real Mr. Clay."
Here, moreover, the prophetic element clearly takes us on to altogether
fresh ground. So, again, there is strong testimony that clairvO'ljants
have witnessed and described trivial incidents in which they had no
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of tke Literary Oommittee. 147
'special interest, and eTen scenes in which the actors, though actual per
sons, were complete strangers to them; and such cases seem properly
assimilated to those where they describe mere places and objects, the
idea of which can hardly be supposed to be impressed on them by any
personality at alL Once more, apparitions at death, though the fact
of death sufficiently implies excitement or disturbance in one mind,
haTe often been witnessed, not only by relatives or friends, in a
normal state but interested in the event-a case above considered-
but by other observers who had no personal interest in the matter.
In .some of these cases the disinterested observer has been in the
company of the person for whom the appearance may be supposed to
have been specially intended, as in the now classical ase of the appari-
tion of Lieutenant Wynyard's brother. In other cases there is not
·even this apparent link, as where a vision or apparition announces the
- -death of a perfect stranger to someone who is wholly at a loss to account
for the visitation. Clearly then the analogy of Thought-transference,
which seemed to offer such a convenient logical start, cannot be pressed
too far. Our phenomena break through any attempt to greup them
under heads of transferred impression; and we venture to introduce
"the words Telmsthesia and Telepathy to ·cover all cases of impression
received at a distance without the normal operation of the recognised
·sense organs. These general terms may, we think, be found of
permanent service; but as regards what is for t.he present included
under them, we must limit and arrange our material rather with an
eye to convenience, th.an with any belief that our classification will
ultimately prove a fundamental one. No true demarcation, in fact, can
as yet be made between one class of those experiences and another;
we need the record of as many and as diverse phenomena as we can
get, if we are to be in a position to deal satisfactorily with anyone
-()f them.
NEED OF MORE PACTS.
And this brings us back to the practical moral which we desire,
in this Report, to enforce on as wide a circle as possible-namely, that
what is really needed is a far larger supply of first-hand and well-
.attested facts. We have spoken with some assurance of the supply
already amassed. But in a matter so anomalous, a number of direct
and independent attestations, which would be utterly superfluous else-
where, is indispensable for getting the scientific reality of the evidence
into men's minds at all-for teaching them that that evidence is no
shifting shadow, which it may be left to individual taste or tempera-
ment to interpret, but more resembles a solid mass seen in twilight,
which men may indeed avoid stumbling over, but only by resolutely
walking away from it. And when the savant thus deserts the field,
L 2
Digitized by Google
149 Report 0/ tke Literary Oommittee. . [Dec. 9"~
the ordinary man needs to have the natu~ and true amount of the
testimony far more directly brought home to him, than is necessary in
realms already mastered by speci,alists to whose dicta he may defer~
Failing this direct contact with the facts, the vaguely fascinated regard
of the ordinary public is, for all scientific purposes, 88 futile 88 the
8avant'8 determined avoidance. Knowledge can never grow until it is
realised that the question "Do you believe in these things 'I" is puerile
unless it has been preceded by the inquiry, "What do you know about
them 'I"
We are glad to be able to say that, in the case of many of
the best accounts that we have received, the writers have allowed us
to publish their names. This permission greatly increases our gratitude
to our correspondents--many of whom have, moreover, taken a great
deal of trouble to present their narratives in a complete and accurate__ _
form. There are, no doubt, occasional cases where a feeling of delicacy
or consideration for others, renders the stipulation that names shall not
be published natural and right; but, 88 a rule, such a stipulation only
makes us long to persuade our informants that, if they would but unite in
disregarding a slight risk of ridicule, the risk itself would altogether
disappear For few personS who have not actively engaged in such
inquiries 88 we are pursuing, can form any idea how enormous
must be the sum of the phenomena which have been actually within
the cognisance of persons now living. The number of thoBe whom our
appeal has actually reached forms but a very small proportion of the
inhabitants even of a single country; and, moreover, much of our
best evidence has been derived from the limited circle of our own
acquaintance. We are justified, therefore, in regarding the area which
our inquiries have hitherto swept as but a corner of a very much
larger field. There may probably be scores of persons in this country
who could amass a first-hand collection of narratives quite 88 good
88 our own, and quite distinct from it. The commoner difficulties
which the collector encounters may be expected to disappear._.
as it becomes better understood that there is a scheme into which
each narrative falls, and that any· well-attested fragment of
evidence may prove of unexpected value. At present a tone of mind
very commonly met with (and it is one with which we are far from
altogether quarrelling) is that of the man who prefaces his remarks
with an expression of contemptuous disbelief in any evidence that you
can possibly bring before him, and then goes on to say "that there is
one actualjact which I can tell you, for it occurred to my86lj." Harder
still to deal with are those who, while firmly convinced, not only of
!;heir own particular experience of the phenomena, but of the extreme
importance of establishing the reality of such experience in general,
refuse the direct attestation which alone can ensure the result
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of the Literarll Committee. 149
they profess to desire, and which they would readily give to any other
:sort of fact in heaven or earth that they truly believed in. Taking all
these people into consideration, they often seem to us like a multitude of
persons standinlt side by side in the dark, who would be astonished, if
the sun rose, to see their own overwhelming numbers. Meanwhile we
:nre greatly at their mercy; with them, not with us, rests the possibility
-of giving to our subject the status of an organised science.
For, in fact, this subject is at present very much in the position
-which zoology and botany occupied in the time of Aristotle, or
:nosology in tAe time of Hippocrates. Aristotle had no zoological
gardens or methodical treatises to refer to; he was obliged to go
down to the fish-market, to hear whatever the sailors could tell, and
look at whatever they could bring him. This spirit of omnivorous
- -inquiry no doubt exposed him to hearing much that was exaggerated
<)r untrue; but plainly the science of zoology could not have been
IUpbuilt without it. Diseases afford a still more striking parallel to the
phenomena of which we are in quest. Men of science are wont to make
it an objection to this quest that phenomena cannot be reproduced
under our own conditions or at our own time. The looseness of thought
here exhibited by men ordinarily clear-headed is surely a striking
example of the prepotence of prejudice over education. Will the
objectors assert that all aberrations of function and degenerations of
tissue are reproducible by direct experiment 1 Can physicians secure a
case of cancer or Addison's disease by any previous arrangement of
conditionst Our science is by no means the only one concerned with
phenomena which are at present to a large extent irreproducible: all
the sciences of life are still within that category, and all sciences
'Whatever were in it once.
THE CONTINUITY OF ALL KNOWLEDGE.
And as we here find ourselves fairly embarked on the wide sea of
~. ·aifficulties and objections, we cannot better conclude our paper than
'by a brief discussion of some of those which, in the pursuance of our
task thus far, have most frequently encountered. We begin,
then, by p ting against the distinction, as ordinarily drawn,
between egitimate and illegitimate lines of inquiry_ If we analyse
the co mon idea of a legitimate inquiry, it seems to be conceived as
one whose line of departure is in demonstrable continuity with previous
facts and theories, the establishment and coherence of which has been
-the result of specialised skill and attention. An inquiry, on the other
hand, is conceived as illegitimate, when its provisional hypotheses are
not in obvious continuity with established conceptions; especially if it
.depends on facts which do not wait for the expert, or admit of being
:bottled for his inspection, but are unexpectedly witnessed by untrained
Digitized by Google
150 RepO'l't oj the Literary Oommittee. [Dec. 9,.
persons, and liable to be distorted and exaggerated by the preconceptions
or emotions of the observers. And these assumptions lead easily on to
Faraday's famous dictum that the scientific approach of any subject
presupposes" clear ideas of the naturally possible and impossible." So
naive a demand for prophetic knowledge of the unknown would alone
suggest the fallacy of the above distinction of subjects. The true
distinction is, in fact, one only of stage and degree. No science-
scarcely even pure mathematics itself-has attained to the more
advanced stage without experiencing the characteristic drawbacks of
the earlier. And, since the mode of collecting evidence depends on the
stage, a letter to the newspapers may be no unfair modern parallel to
the old naturalist's visits to. the slaughter-house and the fish-market.
But this erroneous distinction is in reality based upon an error ot
much greater magnitude. Many persons adopt the words "natural " ---
and "supernatural" to express distinction between o~jects of inquiry
belonging to the physical sciences and those with which we are con-
cerned. This distinction we altogether repudiate. If anyone considers
the occurrences for which we bring evidence to be supernatural,
it is certainly not ourselves. We have no idea what the word can
mean in such a connection. We carry our whole instinct of scientific
solidarity into every detail of our inquiry. The age of transition is
assuredly near its close, which has permitted even eminent 8O/VantB to·
picture the "natural" governance of the universe as a bond to be-
occasionally snapped by some power which itself, presumably, has
no "nature." "That a beloved friend in the moment of his disso-
lution," Humboldt could still say sixty years ago, "may gain power
over the elements, and, in defiance of the laws of Nature, be able
to appear to us, would be perfectly incomprehensible, if it was not
for the half-defined feeling in our hearts that it may be so. It is
quite probable that a very earnest desire might give strength suffi-
cient to break through the laws of Nature." To such language we
find a double objection. On the one hand, we are unable to base
objective conclusions on any " half-defined feeling in our own hearts,.
that the universe must needs be such as we would fain have.it.
But, on the other hand, if we find ourselves face to face with the
sorts of events to which Humboldt refers, we can accept no arbitrary
"scientific frontier" between them and the nature that we all know;_
whose so-called "laws" are simply our verbal expression of the orderly
grouping and sequence of phenomena that have come under frequent
observation. We entertain no doubt that orderly laws lie at the basis of
aU observed facts, however remote those laws may be from our present
ken. The presumption as to our intellectual habits and attitudes, which
the term "Rupernaturalism" is meant to imply, is therefore wholly
without foundation. The phenomena examined by us stand on the
Digitized by Google
-
1882.] Report oj tke Literary Oommittee. 151
same ground as any other phenomena which are widely attested, bUI;
are not matters of common experience; and inquiry into sucb'
phenomena must not be obstructed by any question-begging term.
Either they are facts, or they are not. If they are not facts, that must
be proved in accordance with the laws of evidence, not by assertions of
any prescriptive monopoly in the natural. If they are facts, all the
mystery that lies behind them lies behind every other fact in the
universe. Strip off this wrongly-fathered theory of the "supernatural,"
and to the marvel and mystery that remain we can apply no stronger
expressions than have been constantly applied to the commonest;
phenomena in Nature by those who have known Nature best.
INHERENT DIFFICULTIES.
We do not, however, expect or desire altogether to dispel the
instinctive feeling that the objects of our research present an aspect
of the marvellous which seems in some sort lUi generia; let us con-
sider what natural basis this instinct possesses. We believe that
the special feeling of incredulous surprise which much of our
evidence excites is due to a combination of three characteristics.
In the first place, the phenomena have very little obvious connection
with those of sciences already established. In the second place,
they are often of an emotional and startling character, so as to
suggest a peculiar possibility of mistake; or if, on the other hand,
their subject-matter is trivial, then' their intrusion into the common
routine of life produces a sense of the ridiculous which is equally
hostile to just consideration. In the third place, although not
exactly rare, they are diverse, sporadic, and seemingly so arbitrary
in their occurrence that past observation suggests no clue to the
time, place, or manner of their probable repetition. No other
phenomena in Nature have united these three characteristics in so
high a degree. The attraction exercised by amber on straw was an
isolated, but not a startling, fact. The thunderclap was both an
iaolated and a startling phenomenon; but it was perceived often, and
by numbers at once; and therefore, though it could give rise to
superstitition, it could not be met by incredulity. Nor could erup-
tions of Etna be questioned, though they might be attributed to the
turnings of Typhoeus in his bed. Again, many optical effects, as
the mirage in the desert, have seemed, when first observed, at once
disconnected from science as then known, and arbitrary in their
times of occurrence. The reality of such phenomena may have been
questioned; but they have not been sufficiently intermixed with
familiar things to arouse party feeling, or sufficiently exciting to sug-
gest error of testimony through sensory illusion connected with a
highly emotional state. Such instances may perhaps suggest how rare
.. ,
Digitized by GoogIe
152 Report of the Literary Oommitiee. (Deo.9,
in other directions is the union of all those provocations to incredulity
which our evidence has to overmaster. It would be easy, however, to
imagine that such a union might have appeared. in the case of some
phenomenon in natural history; and that phenomenon would then have
been as strenuously disbelieved in as any ghost. Had Nature given us
an electric whale instead of an electric eel, and had a whole boat's-Cl'ew
of medireval harpooners been now and again struck dead by the shock,
wha.t would have been thought of the story that their companions told
of the encounter1
These inherent embarrassments of our inquiry are of course specially
emphasised by its appearance in the world as a scientific study, in a.
generation whose ideal of such study is formed from the most developed
branches of science. It is inevitable that, as the area of the known
increases by perpetual additions to its recognised departments and by
perpetual multiplication of their connections, a disinclination should
arise to break loose from association, and to admit a quite new depart-
ment on its own independent evidence. But the position of this depart-
ment is yet further complicated by the fact that it happens to combine
in itself difficulties of conception and treatment peculiar to the early
stages of two great separate branches-physics and natural history. In
thefirst place, like physics,itis presumably concernedwith some specialised
form of energy; but this form of energy is at present too indistinctly
realised, and too little under our control, to admit of being correlated
with the acknowledged forms, quantitatively estimated, or even instruc-
tiyely defined. Such speculations as can now be framed with regard
to these obscure phenomena, can hardly be said to differ from the earliest
physical conceptions of Thales and Heraclitus, except in the higher
standard of scientific proof which we can now propose to ourselves as
our ultimate goal. And the very existence of that standard con-
stitutes 110 difficulty; the twilight which has, in every department of
the endless domain of physics, preceded the illuminating dawn of law,
is here made doubly dark and dubious by the advanced daylight of
scientific conceptions from which we peer into it. In the second
place, like natural history in its early stage, our inquiry is concerned
with a variety of sensible phenomena as such-with forms or sounds
simply as they strike the senses of those who come across them;
and the isolation of the phenomena, and the absence of any
genuine classification even of the most provisional kind, have a
most distinct influence on their pl'imO. facie credibility, as compared
with new phenomena of the older sciences, which have the
advantage of falling at once under familiar classes. When the
poisonous lizard is discovered he is a surprise to every one. Never-
theless he is both an animal and a lizard; and even in ages before his
order or his genus was known, he would at leasthave found the category
Digitized by Google
-
.1882.J Report of tke Literary Oommiitee. 153
·of quadruped open to receive him. But in our inquiry, the phenomena
do not, as a rule, find in men's minds a niche similarly ready for their
'8occeptance. In their scattered independence they have to fight their
way, each on its own merits, into minds which not only are indisposed
'to welcome them, but are even unable, without a distinct and disagree-
able effort, to assign them any luWitat at all.
THE OBJECTION AS TO UTILITY.
We think it well, and we think it enough, that the foregoing diffi-
culties in the way of belief should be stated and realised; being con-
vinced that, if the evidence as it stands be also realised, the difficulties
will be rather incentives than obstacles to progress. But there
is another sort of objection, not properly affecting grounds of belief,
which requires different treatment; and which we shall here only notice
- -so far as to make it explicit, and to shew in whose mouUls, at any rate,
it will nO.t lie. It is a common idea that the recognised paths of labour,
along which steady progress is being made and may still be made to an
unpredictable extent, are so various and abundant, that it
is trifling to desert them for a dubious track, where pro-
gress, even could it be supposed possible, would present no apparent
relation to other progress, and would in no way react on the
general advancement. But this vague lan"rruage, answering to what
is commonly but a vague p~iudice, turns out to be susceptible of two
very different meanings. Is the progress meant that of human
happiness, or that of human knowledge 1 .Are we listening to the
gospel of Positivism, or of Science 1 The Positivist, from his own
point of view, is justified in considering the practical amelioration of
human conditions as so vast an aim, and the sciences which have
an influence in that direction as so well recognised, that it is culpable
to aim at extending 'mere knowledge, as such, and without a
definite prospect of bringing the new acquisitions into relation with
human welfare. In this view, we say, there is, prima facie, a fair
- ground of objection; and we specially refrain for the present from
vindicating our inquiries from the charge of irrelevance to human
welfare. That vindication, when the time for it comes, we are con-
fidently prepared to undertake; we are confident of being able to
show that there is no line of scientific inquiry from which results
·of so much importance to the well-being of mankind are to be
·expected. But what we would here pow.t out is that the
Positivist's view is one which in other connections our scientific
opponents are the first to disclaim; and we cannot therefore
.allow them to take advantage of its prestige and popularity in
the objections which they urge B.o<18.inst us, as pursuers of a new and
dubious path. Knowledge as such, knowledge wherever it may lead
Digitized by Google
154 [Dec. 9,
us, knowledge however little it may seem to do for us-this is the
very essence of the scientific creed. Men of science never tire of
pointing out in what unlikely ways knowledge which once seemed
objectless and useless has been brought, perhaps after centuriea, into
vital connection with human affairs; and a naturalist who refused to.
describe the peculiarities of objects observed by him during some
voyage of discovery, on the ground that he did not see how men
would be better off for the knowing of them, would be scouted as a..
renegade. In the present instance, it is assuredly not the scientific
unimportance, but the vastness and obscurity of the vistas opened to·
scientific inquiry, which may naturally lead men to pause before com-
mitting themselves to a search so infinite, through realms so long.
obscure.-
Quale per i,ncertam Iunam sub Iuce malignA.
Est iter in silvis, ubi C<2Ium condidit umbrA.
Jupiter, et rebus no:!: abstulitatra colorem.
" What good does it do ~" or "What good would it do, if it were·
true ~ " this, always the unscientific question par e:x;cellence, is surely
the merest paltering here.
A PRIORI OBJECTIONS.
The reason of .this alien note, the reason that it is possible, at this
time of day, to treat one department of facts in a manner so opposed
to recognised principles, lies really in the .unnoticed entrance of
assumptions-in a gravitation to an d priori standpoint, natur8.l to all
of us when not buoyed up by a pressure of facts of the most obvious
and palpable sort. Objectors to the reality of the event!\, unable from
the nature of the case to produce evidence that they did not, and
driven therefore to argue that they could not happen, are fain to find a
fulcrum for that argument in some quite gratuitous hypothesis. We
have found this spirit of assumption taking most Protir>van forms. For
example, the gentleman who commented in the Nineteenth Century on
our evidences of Thought-reading, argued that they struck at the root
of the understanding on which all human intercourse is carried on.--
The argument is, of course, one large assumption, being nothing less
than this: If it were the case that exceptional individuals could
obtain an impression of some perfectly simple object, on which the
visualising power of all present is powerfully concentrated (a condition
probably never once realised in the world's history till people lately
began purposely and deliberately to make Thought-reading experiments)
it would have to be equally the case that anyone, anywhere, must be
able, against his neighbour'S will, to read his most casual or abstract
thought. Because a marine animal, alleged to have been dredged up in
some remote part of the Atlantic Ocea.n does not swarm in all seas, it
could not have been dredged up at all J As to the sort of phenomena
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report 01 tke Literary Oommittee.
considered in the present paper, the favourite hypothesis is that they only
appear to people of ne.rvous temperament, or emotionally predispesed to,
believe in them-an idea which the slightest study of the evidence
would at once dispeL This same idea of predisposition suggested
lately to a writer in the Pall Mall Gazette a remarkable psycho-
physiological argument, in which the leading part was played by a
still more singular assumption. From the fact that proneness to,
certain emotions, of which fright or awe might be a specimen, may
safely be connected with points of nervous organisation which
descend from father to son, it was tacitly inferred that the unemo-
tional judgments, expressed in logical propositions, of men sitting
down "in a cool hour" to weigh evidence, are largely determined
by peculiarities of nervous tracks transmitted to them from their-
- ,ancestorS; which is something like assuming that, being all the
near descendants of men whose brain-motions were associated with a.
belief in caloric or in luminiferous corpuscles, we are born with a pre-
disposition to deny the mechanical equivalent of heat or the undulatory
theory of light. But strangest of all are the assumptions which
pervade the ordinary objections to the phenomena as senseless,
profitless, and irrelevant to the general li!cheme of a dignified universe.
Certain alleged facts, it seems, are not worth inquiring into, because
their character does not correspond to what, on some hypothesis
usually. involving the "supernatural," might have been expected. That
this should be a frequent line of thought with men professing
enlightened ideas, curiously reminds us how thin at present our varnish
of science is, how few generations separate us from the Middle Ages,
nnd how temptingly near us still is the d priori standpoint. Few of US-
can get for a moment off familiar ground without unconsciously
Betraying our descent from_the men who muzzled Ro~er Bacon and sent
Bruno to the stake.
But, after all, it is not so much controversy or expesition that is the
business of the hour, but the collection, the record, and the assimilation
of actual facts. And the invitation to aid in this business should not,
we think, be an unwelcome one. We certainly hope to see our inquiry
in a more adva'hced state as time goes on ; but it can never well be in a
more inter68ting state than at the present moment. There is the
'IlUIXimum of stimulus which the sense of a rising cause, of an on-
:flowing tide, can give; there are the alluring gleams of a dawning
order; there is the excitement of a time when individual efforts,
however humble, may contribute in a sensible measure towards the
establishment of important truth. The. qualities which the research
needs, for the present at any rate, are not those of a specially-endowed'
minority; they are not so much originality and profundity as candour..
patience, and caro.
Digitized by Google
156 " Olai1'1XJ1lance." [Dec. 9,
v.
" CLAIRVOYANOE."
A Paper on "CLAIRVOYANCE," by George Wyld, M.D., was also
read at this meeting, of which the following is an abstract:-
The author defined clairvoyance as the power which is possessed by
some sensitives of seeing or knowing objects, conditions, and thoughts
beyond the reach of the ordinary channels of sensation; accordingly, in
his view, thought-reading was a branch of clairvoyance. The following
-case, personally known to the author, was quoted as illustrating wh,t.·-
.seemed to be an instance of thought-impression.
A young lady, who had some power of thought-reading, having been
lately called upon at a public institution to pass an examination in
harmony, had a lesson set her on the black board, her own teacher, who
was not the examiner, being present. The solution of the problem was
much beyond the young lady's ability, but her teacher, anxiously desiring
that his pupil should succeed, and having no knowledge of her thought-
reading powers, harmonised the passage in a complicated form in his
<own mind, when, much to his surprise, immediately the young lady took
up the chalk and note lor note wrote down on the black board the
harmony as it existed in his own mind. The mother, the teacher, and
the pupil all asserted that the exercise accomplished was much beyond
the normal capabilities of the young lady, and that no information could
have reached her through the ordinary senses.
Two cases are adduced by the author to show that sometimes facts
not uppermost in his mind have been revealed by the clairvoyant. .
More conclusive is the rarer phenomenon of seeing distant or hidden
.objects. A crucial instance of this the author states he has seen in tht'_
mesmeric trance induced by a Mr. Redman, of 5, Avenue Place,
Brixton Hill, S.W. This mesmerist recently brought a sensitive,
Frederick Smith, a youth of seventeen, to the author's house. He was
blindfolded by means of soft paper folded double, and then gummed
·over his eyelids. This, the author found, produced so complete a
-blindness that he could not distinguish the brightly-lighted gas globes ;
·a silk handkerchief was also tied over this paper. Under these
'circumstances, Smith took a pack of playing cards provided by the
author, and concealing their faces from all present-he being at one side
-of the table and the author at the other-threw down on the table any
.card asked for. A:ftel" this, he read correctly on two occasions the first
line on the pages indicated of a book given him by the author, who him·
Digitized by Google
1882.] " Olai1'Voyance." 151
self was ignorant of the words; and on another occasion he read a
verse of poetry correctly, the author at random pointing out the verse-
to be read, and being ignorant of the words.
The author quotes other illustrations of clairvoyance, which,
however, have not come under his own observation; and, in conclusion,
refers to the curious state, as if the mind were detached from the body,
which is sometimes induced by a.nresthetics, and urges that a more
careful record of the statements made by patients, on recovery from
awesthesia, should be kept by medical men.
In conclusion, the author states that his observations on the
mesmeric trance and clairvoyance have now extended over many years,.
and have convinced him that they afford evidence that "the intelligent
power, called soul, can operate not only independently of the senses but.
_ ._beyond the reach of the senses, and can show itself as an independent.
,eauto-noetic" power triumphing over pain and disease, penetrating
matter, and acting as if its connection with matter were but a passing
accident."
Digitized by Google
