{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1839__grimes___a_new_system_of_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"A New System Of Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
A
NEW SYSTEM
OF
PHRENOLOGY
BY J. STANLEY GRIMES,
President of the Western Phrenological Society, at Buffalo.
To turn who in the love of nature holds
Communion with her visible forms, she speaks
A various language. Bryant.
BUFFALO:
• OLIVER G. STEELE.
N E W-Y ORK: WILEY&Pl'TNA 31.
1839
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1838, by
OLIVER G. STEELE,
In the Clerk's Office of the Southern District of New York.
EXPLANATION OF THE BUST.
INTELLECTUALS,
LOWER RA> GE. MIDDLE RANGE.
Pajrp. Paee.
1 Individuality, - 65 JO Direction, -
93
2 Chemicality, 69 11 Action,
x
- - 95
3 Language, - 78 12 Time, 97
4 Form, . - 80 13 Tune, - - 89
5 Size, - 82
6 Weight, 84 UPPER RANGE.
7 Color, - - 87
8 Order, 88 14 Comparison, 101
9 Number, - 90
IPSE
15 Causality, -
ALS.
103
CORPOREAL RANGE.
I Pneumativeness, - 126
II Alimentiveness, - 140
III Sanitativeness, - 155
CARNIVEROUS RANGE.
IV Destructiveness, - 164
V Combativeness, - - 173
HERBIVEROUS RANGE.
VI Secretiveness, - 176
VII Cautiousness, - - 181
SOCIALS.
ESTABLISHING GROUP.
RODENTIA RANGE.
VTTI Constructiveness,
IX Acquisitivness, -
HUMAN RANGE.
X Playfulness, -
XI Perfectiveness, -
XII Hopefulness,
1st Amativeness, - - 218
2d Parentiveness, - - 223
4th Adhesiveness, - - 330
GOVERNING GROUP.
5th Imperativeness, - 233
6th Approbativeness, - - 236
7th Firmness,
8th Conscientiousness,
CONFORMING GROUP.
9th Submissiveness, -
10th Kindness,
11th Imitativeness,
12th Credenciveness,
185
187
192
199
205
234
247
257
263
268
278
PREFACE.
The principal object of this volume is, to lay before the public the
results of several years' phrenological study and observation. When
1 commenced teaching phrenology, I followed in the footsteps of
Gall and Spurzheim. My only object was, to disseminate among my
fellow countrymen, the sublime truths which were discovered by those
illustrious men. 1 adopted their doctrines, and imitated, as well as I
could, their manner of teaching and illustrating them. I also adop-
ted their favorite maxim, that we should study things rather than
words u res non verba quacso." 1 determined to admit nothing
which was not based upon facts, and capable of being philosophically
demonstrated. It was by observation, that 1 first satisfied myself of
tbe truth of the essential facts upon which the system of Spurzheim
was based; and by continuing to pursue this same course, I have been
enabled, as I believe, to remodel and improve that system. Admo-
nished by the history of the past, it is without any feeling of presump-
tion, that I present to the notice of the scientific public my New Sys-
tem of Phrenology; conscious that it must contain many errors which
future experience and just criticism cannot fail to detect. I appeal
with confidence to the justice and candor of phrenologians. I invite
their criticisms as a favor; and when I am convicted of error, either
in facts or conclusions, T shall take great pleasure in making acknow-
ledgements. It is my intention to correct, in a future edition, all
mistakes that I shall discover in this; and shall be happy to receive
judicious communications,* from any quarter, which may be calcu-
lated to advance a science in which I feel so deep an interest. I have
made a free use of the works of my predecessors, and have given
credit accordingly. I should' state however, that after the articles on
^Communications on the subject of Phrenology, addressed to me at Buffalo,
during my absence, will be referred to the Executive Committee of the Phreno-
logical Society, and receive from them all due attention.
8 PREFACE.
X and III were printed, I received from my friend, Dr. Ganson, of
Batavia, N. Y., a copy of " Brousais' Phrenology," published in
1836, in French, and I am happy to find that he coincides with me in
attributing X to animals. From him 1 also learned, for the first time,
that Vimont considers Vitativeness as a propensity to preserve the
body—"to avoid danger without reflection," and locates it where
I do III. The idea, however, that it is the organ which feels pain,
does not seem to have occurred to him.
Brousais has attempted, when speaking of each organ, to show
with what other organs it naturally combines, and also which are na-
tural antagonists. But, although I have taken some trouble to show
that certain organs naturally act together, I cannot countenance the
idea that some organs were intended as antagonists to others. They
all act in harmony; and though some are more intimately related
than others, no one, unless abused, counteracts the proper effects of
another. Brousais also, in common with all other phrenologians, has
adopted the classification of Spurzheim, and therefore, whatever merit
or censure may be accorded to the innovations contained in this vo-
lume belongs to the author alone. Spurzheim remarked, that the
organs of analogous powers are regularly in each other's vicinity. He
observed that the first four Socials, and also several of the lower
Ipseals are related. Other Phrenologians have been struck with
the same facts; but the well informed reviewers will perceive, that no-
thing like the classification in this work has ever before been attemp-
ted; and 1 leave it to them also to determine how far 1 have been suc-
cessful.
INTRODUCTION
The study of human nature has in all ages been deemed of the
very first importance, and called into vigorous action the master minds
of every civilized nation. But the numerous systems that have been
successively produced and abandoned, afford sufficient evidence that
the great fundamental principles of human nature had never been
discovered. Some philosophers have shut themselves in their closets,
and endeavored, by reflecting upon the operations of their own minds,
to frame a system ofmental philosophy, which would apply to all man-
kind: but the result was, that they only acquired an imperfect history
of a few of their own mental powers, while they remained in total
ignorance of the causes which produce the great diversity of human
character. Others endeavored to acquire a knowledge of man by tra-
velling, and mingling with all classes and conditions of the human
race. These were more successful; but however much knowledge
might, by the experience of a whole life, be acquired in this manner,
it necessarily died with the individual, as it was of such a nature
that it could not be communicated. Anatomical investigation, was
another mode of studying human nature; but although this led to
more correct notions concerning the functions of the body, it shed
no light upon the nature of the mind.
The study of Physiognomy, is another method which has been
pursued, from the time of Aristotle, Theophrastus, and Zopyrus,
among the ancients, to the attempts of Camper and Lavater in our
own day. But all the real success which has ever attended the la-
bors of physiognomists, is owing to their approximation to the great
truths of Phrenology; though they were utterly ignorant of this
science. By examining the works of Camper and Lavater, it will be
found, that the few useful truths which they contain, are based upon
the principles which are explained in this work.
10 INTRODUCTION.
The foundation of Phrenological science, was laid by the disco-
veries of F. J. Gall, a native of Germany, who was born March 9,
1757. His attention was first directed to the subject while a school-
boy, from the circumstance, that those who committed the words of
their lessons to memory with the greatest ease, had prominent eyes.
He next observed that those who excelled in the memory of places,
had a peculiar prominence upon the forehead. After he left the Uni-
versity, he commenced the practice of medicine. He was now a man
of science—his very profession led him to study human nature in con-
nection with the human constitution—and he began to reflect
—
lt
If
the prominence of one part of the head indicates one talent, and the
prominence of another part indicates another, may not all the talents
and dispositions of men be indicated by the developement of different
parts of the head?" The suggestion seemed plausible; and he accor-
dingly, after having in vain examined all the different auihors on
mental philosophy, betook himself to the observation of the heads of
peculiar characters. He was successful, even beyond his most ar-
dent hopes; for he soon discovered external indications of talents for
painting, poetry, and the mechanic arts, besides several of the moral
and animal propensities. Gall's first publication on the subject, was
made in 1798. He very naturally failed to give system to the facts
which he had discovered; and the names which he gave to the organs
were unphilosophical. in 1801, fortunately for the science, John
Gasper Spurzheim, also a German, became the pupil of Gall, and in
1804 was admitted as his partner. Spurzheim greatly improved the
nomenclature and classification of the organs; and also contributed
much towards giving a more philosophical account of the anatomical
structure of the brain.
In 1802, the lectures of Dr. Gall at Vienna, which had continued
during five years, were prohibited by an order of the government, ob-
tained through the influence of the clergy. In 1805, Gall and Spurz-
heim left Vienna, and travelled to some of the other cities of Europe,
lecturing upon, and disseminating their doctrines. In 1807, Gall ar-
rived at Paris, and remained there until his death, which took place
in 1828.
Spurzheim dissolved his partnership with Gall in 1813, and in 1814
visited Great Britain, and lectured in the principal cities. During
his visit to Edinburgh, he had the good fortune to make a convert of
Geo. Combe, Esq., a gentleman who has since distinguished himself
as an able and eloquent phrenological author and lecturer. In 1817,
Spurzheim returned to Paris. In 1824, the lectures of Gall and
HISTORY OF THE SCIENCE. 11
Spurzheim at Paris, were prohibited by an order of the government.
Spurzheim again visited Great Britian in 1825, where he after-
wards spent most of his time until June 20, 1832, when he sailed
from Havre, and arrived at New York, August 4. He remained in
New-York until the 11th, when he proceeded to New-Haven. On
the 16th he left for Hartford, and from that city he went to Boston,
where he arrived on the 20th. He gave a course of lectures in Boston,
and another at Cambridge. This was the last labour of Spurzheim
in the cause of science. A slow, continued fever, not at first con-
sidered dangerous, finally proved fatal, and he died at Boston, Nov.
10, 1832. No man was ever more sincerely lamented. To the honor
of my native city, the most distinguished tokens of love and regard
were extended to him while living, and the highest testimonials of
grateful reverence followed him to the grave. His beautiful monument
at Mount Auburn, is but an emblem of the pure affection with which
his memory is cherished. The marble may perish, and the place of
his burial be forgotten; but the names both of Gall and Spurzheim
are immortal. They must always be associated with principles, that
will be known and appreciated, while science has a temple or a devo-
tee on the earth.
PHRENOLOGY
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE HUMAN CONSTITUTION.
Phrenology is the science of the human mind, founded
upon the human constitution.
The human constitution is composed of a vast number of
organs, intimately related to each other, and all acting
together in the most perfect and beautiful harmony.
Notwithstanding the exalted nature of man above all the
animated tribes
" That roam the wood,
Or wing the sky, or roll along the flood,"
yet, as an organized being, he is subject to the same laws
that regulate the rest of the animal and vegetable creation.
The organs which compose the human constitution are so
numerous, and complicated, and the offices that they perform
so different, that it would be impossible to form any correct
idea of them, without classing together those which perform
similar functions, and considering them as distinct and par-
2
14 PHRENOLOGY.
tially independent systems. Thus the bones are denomina-
ted the
OSEOUS SYSTEM,
and constitute the frame upon which the other organs are
supported. But the bones cannot move without the agency
of the muscles: these constitute another class of organs,
demominated the
MUSCULAR SYSTEM.
Those who are not familiar with anatomical expressions
will have a perfect idea of the structure of a muscle, when
they are informed that all the lean parts of flesh and fish
are entirely composed of muscles, the parallel fibres of
which extend from one bone to another, and possessing, as
they do, the power of contracting with great force, they
are capable of moving the bones from one place to another,
as far as the tendons will permit. This principle of the
contractility of muscles is of the greatest importance,
since every motion of the body, and every sign of life
which we are capable of making, is made by the contrac-
tion of one or more of the muscles. Not only are the
movements of the body, the pulsation of the heart, the cir-
culation of the blood, and the action of the stomach and
intestines, dependent upon the construction of the muscles,
but also the manifestations of the mind—probably even
thought itself—but certainly the signs, the manifestations,
the evidences of thought, are dependent upon muscular con-
traction.
This dependence of the mind upon the muscles, is per-
fectly illustrated by the case of persons that have been in a
trance, who, although conscious of what was going on around
them, yet could give no sign of consciousness; and their
friends, believing them dead, have proceeded to bury them.
NERVOUS SYSTEM. 15
An instance of this kind once happened in England, and
after the funeral was over the surgeons obtained the body
for dissection; but as soon as the knife penetrated the mus-
cles they resumed their power in obedience to the will, and
the individual, to the astonishment of the surgeons, arose
again and lived several years afterwards.
The muscles are of different sizes and forms according
to their situations and the force which it is necessary for
them to exert; but notwithstanding they are absolutely
necessary to produce motion, yet they never move them-
selves; they are excited to action by the agency of some
part of the
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Under this head is included,
First, The nerves of involuntary motion: these stimulate
and excite to action all the muscles that are independent of
the will, all that are concerned in digestion, circulation and
respiration. These functions proceed incessantly, from the
very commencement of our animal existence to the last
moment of life—whether we are asleep or awake—without
our being conscious of it, and without our being able to pre-
vent it by any act of the mind. These nerves do not origi-
nate in the brain.
Second, The nerves of voluntary motion all originate
in the brain, and are under the control of the will. They
are the messengers which convey to the muscles the deci-
sions of the mind; they cease to act when separated from
the brain, and are evidently mere instruments of communi-
cation between the brain and the muscles.
Whenever the mind determines to act, the voluntary
nerves receive an influence from the brain, and quick as
lightning convey it to the appropriate muscles, which
16 PHRENOLOGY.
instantly contract and produce the action. Thus, if we
wish to speak—the brain conveys, through the medium of the
voluntary nerves, an influence (probably some kind of elec-
tric fluid) to the muscles of the tongue, throat, lips, &c, and
instantly they contract, producing the requisite sounds.
Third, The brain or phrenological nerves. The con-
sideration of this division of the nervous system, constitutes
the science of Phrenology in its most limited sense.
Fourth, The nerves of the Jive senses convey impres-
sions to the brain from the external world: the optic nerve
conveys impressions of light; the auditory nerve, of sound;
the gustatory nerve, of savors; and the olfactory nerve, of
odors; while the nerves of touch extend from all parts of the
body and head, an infinite number of exceedingly minute
branches, conveying to the brain impressions of cold, heat,
pain, and mechanical pressure.
Thus we have seen that the bones cannot move unless
acted upon by the power of the muscles ; and that the mus-
cles are incapable of acting until they are excited by the
nerves; while the nerves are dependent upon the brain; and
the brain is excited by the five senses; which in their turn
are stimulated to action by the external world.
These three classes of organs, the bones, the muscles, and
the nerves, constitute the most essential part of the human
constitution. All the other systems of organs are merely
auxiliary to these, and conducive to their nourishment and
support. They may be divided into the
DIGESTIVE SYSTEM,
that receives the food and manufactures into blood; the
ARTERIAL SYSTEM,
that conveys the blood to every part of the constitution;
and the
VENOUS SYSTEM,
that returns it again to the lungs.
CHAPTER II.
TEMPERAMENT—OR PROPORTION OF THE SYSTEMS.
When all the systems which compose the constitution are
perfect in form, and size, and vigour, the individual may be
said to possess
A BALANCED TEMPERAMENT.
But this perfect proportion of parts is rarely found,
except in the imagination of the poetical. The Apollo
Belvidere, and the Venus de Medicis, and many other sta-
tues, have been executed with the intention of representing
the perfection of all the parts of the human constitution
combined in one subject. Shakespeare makes Hamlet rep-
resent his father as being endowed with such perfection;
a constitution "whereon every god* had set his seal, to
give the world assurance of a man."
When one system of organs predominates over the rest,
* The ancients believed that a particular Deity presided over each
part of the body.
2*
18 PHRENOLOGY.
its influence may be observed in every part—producing a
modification of the form, size, texture, or complexion, and
varying the degree of activity and energy with which the
organs of the brain perform their functions.
Each temperament is named after the system of organs,
the predominance of which produces it ; thus the
MUSCULAR TEMPERAMENT *
exists when the muscular system is developed in a greater
degree than the other systems. This temperament is known
by the firmness which it imparts to the flesh, the harshness
to the expression of the countenance, and the strength, to
the body generally.
The oseous or bony system is frequently large, while the
muscular is small, and the contrary; but since they both
tend to the same result, and combine to produce strength,
I shall associate the two systems under the head of muscu-
lar temperament.
Hercules, Ajax, Wallace, and Ethan Allen, are fine
illustrations of it. We find it in the inhabitants of the
rough and mountainous districts oftener than in those of
the cultivated valleys and plains. It is also seen in the
majority of labourers who exert themselves to operate by
arduous muscular strength. Washington Irving remarks:
"There seems to be races of men, as there is of animals,
destined by nature to bear burdens'': their large bony
frames, and thick firm muscles admirably qualify them
for usefulaess where personal strength and brute force is
necessary.
Women seldom are endowed with the muscular tempera-
ment, and when they are it gives them a masculine appear-
ance. Catherine, Empress of Russia, is an instance of this.
But the majority of the female sex have the oseous and
TEMPERAMENT. 19
muscular system small; this is true of animals generally,
and cannot therefore be attributed to the delicate habits
of women.
NERVOUS TEMPERAMENT.
When that class of organs which constitutes the nervous
system predominates, in accordance with the well established
principle that size is a measure of power, (all other things
being equal,) it will have an influence over the other sys-
tems in an exact proportion to its superiority in comparative
size.
The Involuntary Nerves, the office of which is to excite
certain muscles to action independently of the mind, will
certainly have more effect if those muscles are small. The
nerves do not however give strength, but only activity. The
strength of the muscles depends upon their size, but their
activity depends upon the nervous apparatus that excites
them. The same remarks are true of
The Voluntary Nerves; and persons of this tempera-
ment speak, walk, and perform all their actions with great
rapidity. They are well adapted to situations that require
great celerity, but where little muscular strength is neces-
sary. When we consider that the voluntary nerves act
upon muscles in obedience to the organs of the brain, it is
plain that the smaller the muscles are, compared to the exci-
ting power, the more rapid must be their action. And this
is actually the case—when the bones and muscles are small,
and the nervous system powerful, the limbs and the features
(which are composed principally of muscles) move quickly,
and are easily excited to sudden actions.
The Brain or Phrenological Nerves also act more power-
fully when the muscular system is comparatively small.
20 PHRENOLOGY.
The mind never manifests itself but through the muscles;
of course, the larger the organs of the brain, and the
smaller and more delicate the bones and muscles, the greater
will be the effect of the mind upon them.
The same principle explains the activity of the senses.
The muscles surround the nerves of the senses, and pro-
tect them from external injury; but when the muscles are
delicate, and the nervous system powerful, the senses are
easily impressed, and rapidly convey impressions to the
brain.
The signs of the nervous temperament are, small
muscles, and generally small bones; the features delicate
and sharp, the eyes small, and the head rather large. This
is when the nervous temperament is so far predominant as to
be pure.
The mixture of temperaments is the cause of great diffi-
culty in ascertaining the true temperament; but much con-
fusion may be avoided by making a broad distinction be-
tween the three essential systems of organs—the oseous,
muscular and nervous—and the three nourishing systems
—
the digestive, arterial and venous; the nourishing systems
being important only as they affect the essential systems
and modify their power and activity. I deem this a point
of great importance, and shall therefore endeavour to state
it distinctly and illustrate it clearly.
Were it not for the necessity of nourishment, we should
have no need of the three nourishing systems, and the
human constitution would be a much more simple machine
than it is now. It would then be composed only of three
systems. There would still be a necessity for the same bony
frame, or oseous system, and of the same contractile mus-
cles, and also of a nervous system to direct the muscles ;
but all the numerous and complicated organs which conduce
to nourishment might be spared. There would then be but
TEMPERAMENT. 21
two temperaments—the muscular and the nervous ; if one
predominated, the individual would be remarkable for his
strength, and if the other, for his activity.
But since we are so constituted that we are continually
wasting, it is necessary to have organs to repair the waste:
and in pursuing the study of these nourishing organs, it
becomes necessary to class them into systems, and consider
the effect which each system will have upon the constitu-
tion when predominant.
DIGESTIVE OR LYMPHATIC TEMPERAMENT.
First, then, the digestive system when predominant over
the arterial and venous, supplies more nourishment than the
growth and maintenance of the body requires. The super-
abundance is deposited in the form of fat between the fibres of
the muscles, under the skin, and around the heart, arteries,
&c. The muscles receive a useless load, which lumbers
them and renders their action more slow and difficult;' the
arteries do not send the blood with so much vigour and
rapidity to the brain; the muscles do not contract so forcibly,
and the whole constitution becomes partially clogged. The
fat settling under the skin, is the cause that persons of this
temperament are pale and dull, as the transparency of the
skin admits the colour of the fat to appear through it. It
also gives roundness to the features, and covers the muscles
and nerves with fat, so as to prevent thorn from being easily
impressed and excited by external circumstances. They
are therefore dull of apprehension.
Such persons never can rise to great eminence, even if
they possess good mental powers.
These remarks must be understood to apply to extreme
cases of the lymphatic temperament; but there are many
22 PHRENOLOGY.
degrees of it: in some persons it is manifested in so slight
a degree, that it requires close observation to detect it; and
this is equally true of the other temperaments.
The female sex generally have so much of the lymphatic
as to give a soft and yielding consistence to their flesh, and
a roundness to their forms. Combined to the nervous
temperament, it gives a peculiar delicacy to the constitution,
especially if the oseous and muscular systems are mode-
rately developed. It gives moderation to the movements of
the muscles, and adds to their bulk, without increasing their
strength. Such persons are easily fatigued, and prefer
situations where little exertion is necessary. Ccesar said:
"Let me have fat men about me, I like not that lean hag-
gard Cassius." The restless, discontented, revolutionary
spirit never inhabits a lymphatic tenement. It may be seen
among those who sit in the midst of luxury without b'eing
compelled to labour; in market places, in coffee houses, and
in the dwellings of idlers.
The lymphatic temperament tends to check the activity
of the nervous and muscular systems.
ARTERIAL OR SANGUINE TEMPERAMENT.
When the arterial system is most fully developed, we see
the muscles and nerves nourished and stimulated to the
highest degree; and as they are the organs that produce
motion, the consequence is that such individuals will love
to be in motion; they will be fond of all kinds of exercise,
and industry will be natural to them. The brain also will
be nourished and stimulated to the most energetic action.
Individuals of this temperament are well qualified for situa-
tions where all the organs, both bodily and mental, can
have a share of exercise. They frequently make poor
i
TEMPERAMENT. 23
students, even when they are possessed of good intellec-
tual powers, because study is too confining to them; they
cannot keep still long enough to learn their lessons from
books, but they well soon learn any operation the perform-
ance of which allows them a variety of exercise.
It has also been remarked that persons of this tempera-
ment are prone to " sensual pleasure."
By sensual pleasure, is understood, the enjoyment pro-
duced by 'the exercise of the bodily organs—in sporting,
dancing, wrestling, boxing, eating, drinking, &c. This
proneness will be, in a great degree, modified by the relative
development of the phrenological organs.
If a man has combativeness and destructiveness large,
he will be fond of hunting, because that will be a kind of
exercise that will gratify at once his largest and most active
organs, both of brain and body. But if combativeness and
destructiveness be very small, an ardent temperament alone
will not be sufficient to induce him to chase and destroy
innocent animals. Yet if alimentiveness be very large, he
will be apt to exercise in eating and drinking. He would
make a good landlord, for he would not only be sponta-
neously active, but he would direct his activity to this
particular subject.
It is the organs in the brain that dispose us to pleasure of
all kinds; but when the body is highly excited and nour-
ished by the blood, the individual will be likely to use those
organs of the brain the gratification of which will give
activity to the body; and these are principally alimentive-
ness, destructiveness, combativeness, amativeness and play-
fulness. It is the gratification of these propensities that
constitutes what is meant by the phrase, "sensual pleasure."
The signs of this temperament are, an animated counte-
nance, florid complexion, blue eyes, and yellow or brown
hair; the form and features are generally more handsomely
24 PHUENOLOG Y.
developed, and combined as they are with a rosy complex-
ion, and ardent passionate feelings, young persons of this
constitution are more interesting to each other than those
of other temperaments.
VENOUS OR BILIOUS TEMPERAMENT.
The partial independence of the different organs and
systems of organs of the constitution, has not been suffi-
ciently insisted upon by physiologists. Although it is true
that
" All are but parts of one amazing whole,"
yet it is equally true that each system of organs is to a cer-
tain extent independent of the other systems.
It is generally taken for granted by authors, that the
venous system is in proportion to the arterial, and the two
are spoken of as a whole, under the name of the sanguine-
ous system. But after much observation and reflection, I
am satisfied that the arterial system sometimes predomi-
nates, and sometimes the venous; and that what is called the
sanguineous temperament, is produced by the predomi-
nance of the arterial system, while the bilious tempera-
ment is produced by the predominance of the venous. I
see no good reason why the venous or arterial systems may
not predominate over each other, as well as the muscular
and nervous.
It is undoubtedly true that when the constitution is in per-
fect harmon}', the arterial and venous systems will bear a
regular proportion to each other, but this harmony is seldom
found.
The truth is, any organ or system of organs in the con-
stitution, may predominate in size over the others. It is
upon this principle that the whole science of Phrenology is
founded, and it is only upon this principle that temperaments
TEMPERAMENT. 25
can be philosophically explained. Strictly speaking, there
may be as many different temperaments as there are organs
in the constitution, and each of these may be combined so as
to produce an infinite variety. This is one reason that
there are not two persons in the world alike; because some
organ or combination of organs predominates in one that
does not in another. But it is impossible to tell what organ
produces the peculiarity in every individual instance; we
are therefore under the necessity of classing together those
organs that perform similar functions, and when the whole
class predominates in any person, he is said to be of a cer-
tain temperament.
In conformity with these views, I have explained the diffe-
rent systems that compose the human constitution, and the
temperament that each produces.
SYSTEMS. TEMPERAMENTS.
1.
2.
The Osseous System,
The Muscular, i
Muscular.
3. The Nervous, Nervous.
4. The Digestive, Digestive, or Lymphatic
5. The Arterial, Arterial, or Sanguine.
6. The Venous, Venous, or Bilious.
In order to understand the effects of the venous tempera-
ment, the following facts must be borne in mind.
Fiust, The veins contain about two thirds more blood
than the arteries.
Second, The blood moves much slower through the veins
than it does through the arteries.
Third, The blood, is not so warm in the veins as it is in
the arteries.
Fourth, The blood of the veins is of a much darker
color than that of the arteries.
3
26 PHRENOLOGY.
Fifth, The liver, which secretes or manufactures the
bilious fluids, is supplied with blood almost entirely from the
veins, and in this respect is an exception to all the other
organs of the body.
Sixth, The venous system is developed in different de-
grees in different persons.
Seventh, The venous system becomes more full as peo-
ple grow older, and at the same time the arteries shrink.
Certain climates also give greater activity to the venous
system.
We can now understand why persons of this temperament
are found to possess lhe following peculiarities:
First, Thy are slower in bodily and mental action than
those of the nervous or arterial temperament.
Second, They are not so easily excited nor so soon ex-
hausted.
Third, Their feelings are not so warm and ardent, but
more enduring.
Fourth, They are of a dark brown or yellow complex-
ion, with black hair and eyes.
Fifth, They are more subject to liver complaints, and
are said to have a bilious look; this is probably the reason
that it has acquired the name of the bilious temperament.
Sixth, They are not so fond of muscular action—they
are not so lively and changeable in their thoughts and feel-
ings as arterial temperaments.
When you wish to learn the temperament of any person,
first observe his osseous system, if that is fairly developed
—
if he is not too tall for his breadth—if his chest is capacious
enough to allow of a pair of lungs of the common size—if
there is nothing essentially disproportioned in his frame, you
will pass to the muscular system, and see if the frame is well
covered with flesh; if so, then observe the consistence of the
flesh, see if it is as firm as ordinary; next turn your atten-
TEMPERAMEN T. 27
tion to the fineness and color of the hair, and the sharpness
or roundness o{ the features, and the size of the head, in
order to ascertain the degree in which the nervous system
is developed, compared to the muscular. Next observe the
three nourishing systems, and see whether the digestive, the
arterial, or the venous, predominates.
We rarely see an instance of any temperament pure
;
two, and sometimes three systems frequently combine to
produce a mixed temperament : and here it is necessary to
use much discrimination, as every person whom we exam-
ine will present a new combination, or a different degree of
the same temperament that we have observed before.
Black eyes and hair, and a yellowish neck, combined
with red cheeks, indicates a combination of the venous and
arterial, or rather a struggle for predominance.
Sharp features, with a lean body, and a dark complexion,
indicate a combination of the nervous and venous.
Sharp features and lightness of flesh, with red cheeks,
blue eyes and light hair, indicate a combination of the arte-
rial and nervous.
Heavy round features and form, with a dark complexion,
indicate a combination of the digestive and venous. It is
not necessary to enumerate and describe all the combina-
tions and their effects, as a discerning mind will soon dis-
cover them by the application of the foregoing principles.
Dr. Caldwell, of Kentucky, has written a very interesting
essay upon temperament, in which he bases the three prin-
cipal temperaments upon the three great cavities, the crani-
um, the thorax, and the abdomen. According to him, if the
cranium is most capacious, we have the cerebral or mental
temperament If the thorax is large, the sanguineous
system will predominate ; and the muscular system being
well nourished with blood, will be powerful, of course. If
the abdomen predominates, and the chest and head are small.
28 PHRENOLOGY.
then the lymphatic temperament will be the consequence
;
and all other temperaments are combinations .of these three.
Dr. Caldwell's treatise is more philosophical than any
preceding one on this subject ; but it is, notwithstanding,
very imperfect, as he passes over in silence the bilious
temperament, and gives but an unsatisfactory account of
the muscular ; he is not sufficiently analytical. The fact
is, the size of the head is one evidence of the degree of the
nervous temperament—and the size of the chest is an evi-
dence of the perfection and predominance of the arterial
and venous systems. But it affords no clue to the relative
size of the venous and arterial ; nor does it by any means
follow that the muscles are large when the chest is capa-
cious. It is true that the muscles are nourished by the blood,
but so also are the nerves and the brain, yet no one pre-
tends that the size of the brain depends upon the size of the
thorax.
The developement of the abdomen is also some indication
of the activity of the digestive system, and it is useful to
attend to the relative size of the three great cavities ; but we
can generally perceive in the countenance, indications of
the different temperaments, even when there is no apparent
disproportion between the cranium, thorax, and abdomen.
Disease frequently produces effects which are mistaken
for natural temperaments, but observation and comparison
will soon correct us on this point ; and besides,' it is not the
province of the phrenologian to explain the effects of disease.
Some phrenologists have suggested that there may be a
fine quality of brain, independent of temperament, and that
this fine quality is indicated by the fineness of the external
hair, skin and features ; the same general causes operating
on the whole constitution alike. If the exterior is of an ex-
cellent quality, so also is the interior, and therefore we may
expect more firm, active, and energetic manifestations from
GENERAL PRINCIPLES. 29
a brain which is surrounded by flesh, features, and hair of
a fine vigorous appearance, than when the whole outward
man is of a coarse texture.
There is some plausibility in this doctrine, but it seems to
me very easy to explain the fineness or coarseness of struc-
ture by reference to peculiar combinations of temperament,
caused by climate, occupation, &c.
CHAPTER III
GENERAL P1RNC1PLES OF PHRENOLOGY.
First, the brain is the organ of mind. This is a propo-
sition which no person of common intelligence at the pre-
sent day pretends to deny. The ancients entertained differ-
ent opinions on this subject. Some believed, or rather sus-
pected, that the brain was the seat of the mind ; others,
with Plato, considered the heart as the seat of the passions,
and the brain the habitation of the higher and nobler senti-
ments. Hipocrates regarded the human brain as a sponge
which imbibed the moisture of the body. Aristotle, on
the contrary, viewed it as a humid mass intended to temper
the heat of the body. Descartes believed that the pineal
gland, a part about the size of a pea, at the centre of the
brain, was the habitation of the mind. Some, again, pre-
3*
so PHRENOLOGY.
tend to think that the brain was merely to balance the face,
and prevent it from inclining too much forward ; and that the
mind resided in every part of the body.
Although this is a fundamental principle of phrenology, yet
it was fully established in the minds of scientific men before
the time of Dr. Gall. To this great man is due the credit of
having first discovered and demonstrated the
Second principle, that the brain is constituted of a number
of organs. Admitting the first principle of phrenology, it
seems impossible to avoid the second. For if the brain is the
organ of the human mind, the same is true of other animals.
How, then, shall we account for the superiority of man,
unless we admit that he has more and higher organs 1
Again, in examining the brains of animals, we find them
more complicated, and containing additional parts, as the
animal manifests more faculties.
Different faculties are manifested at different ages.
Some persons are great geniuses in some things, and
almost idiots in others.
Some are insane on one class of subjects and perfectly
reasonable on all others.
In dreaming, some faculties are active and the rest asleep.
It is easy to account for these phenomena, on the princi-
ple that the brain is constituted of a number of organs, which
are possessed in different degrees by different persons and
at different ages, and that the lower animals possess some
of them and are destitute of others. One organ may be
diseased and the rest sound. One may be asleep or at
rest, and others awake and active. But if we deny this
phrenological principle, we have no means of explaining
these phenomena. Besides the evidence thus derived from
the necessity of admitting a plurality of organs, phrenologists
have an abundance of proof resulting from observation.
A third principle of phrenology is, that the power of an
ANATOMY. 31
organ, (all other things being equal) is in exact proportion to
its size. Upon this principle, practical phrenology depends.
It is a demonstrable truth, in regard to all the material
world, that two or more substances of the same quality and
form, will possess a degree of strength and power propor-
tionate to their size ; and it is surprising that any indivi-
dual of common intelligence, should be found in the present
age to controvert so obvious a proposition.
A fourth 'principle is, that the size and activity of the
organs may be affected by temperament, disease, exercise
and education.
CHAPTER IV.
ANATOMY OF THE BRAIN.
This has always been a subject of much learned discus-
sion ; but until the time of Dr. Gall, the little that was
known concerning it, was of no material use, and only ten-
ded to distract the minds of those medical students who en-
deavored to understand it. The different parts of the brain,
instead of receiving names expressive of the functions which
they performed, have been named according to the shape
which they generally assume. This accounts for the strange
32 PHRENOLOG Y.
and unphilosopliical terms which are used by writers on
anatomy, and which are calculated only to discourage the
common student. Indeed, few medical students think it
worth their trouble to learn the details of the anatomy of the
brain as it is commonly taught, since they soon ascertain
that it is of no use ; consisting merely in learning the local-
ity of parts, the offices of which are unknown and even un-
conjectured, and observing their resemblance in form to cer-
tain familiar objects from which they derive their names,
such as olive-shaped, harrow-shaped, funnel-shaped, &c.
The discovery of phrenology threw much light on the
anatomy and physiology of the brain, and enabled scientific
men to give names to many parts expressive of their func-
tions.
HEMISPHERES OF THE BRAIN.
The brain and spinal cord is in two equal and symmetrical
halves called hemispheres, one of which is contained within
the right side of the skull and vertebra, and the other within
the left. Every essential part that is found upon one hemis-
phere is found in a corresponding place upon the opposite:
—
thus, upon one hemisphere phrenologists have discovered
thirty-six organs of mind, and a corresponding number of
similar organs upon the other side: thus also, upwards of
forty nerves proceed from one hemisphere of the brain and
spinal cord to different parts of the body, and an equal num-
ber proceed from the other hemisphere in a similar manner.
This explains why nervous diseases sometimes affect one
side of the face or body and not the other.
The division of the great organ of mind into hemispheres
corresponds with the fact that all the organs of the body
that obey the mind are double, so also are the organs of sense
that carry information to the mind. Thus we have two
COMMISSURES. 33
hands and two feet, two eyes, &c. The body, and particu-
larly the face, may therefore be said to be divided into right
and left hemispheres, and this is a good illustration of the
manner in which the brain is divided.
The line which divides the right from the left hemisphere
is called the mesial, or median line.
COMMISSURES OF THE BRAIN.
These are parts that extend across from one hemisphere
of the brain to the other, and are evidently intended to pro-
duce a unity of action between them ; so that although the
great organ of mind is double, the operations of mind are
single ; and notwithstanding the organs of sense are double,
the sensations are single ; one side of the head cannot be
angry while the other is pleased ; one side cannot delight in
mi&ic while the other is averse to it ; but both hemispheres
act together as if they were one, which could not possibly
be the case if they were not intimately united by means of
the commissures.
The largest commissure is called the corpus callosum
;
this may easily be seen by separating with the fingers the
two hemispheres of the uncovered brain ; a white mass
several inches wide and about half an inch in thickness will
then be seen extending across from one hemisphere to the
other, like a bridge.
The annular protuberance is about one sixth the size of
the corpus callosum, and extends from one hemisphere of
the cerebellum, or organ of amativeness, to the other, pas-
sing across the medulla oblongata, in such a manner as to be
sometimes called the bridge of Varolius, or pons varoli.
We can only conjecture the use of these two commissures
from their situation ; the fact, however, that they are not
34 PHRENOLOGY.
found in some classes of animals, seems to indicate that they
are not so important as their size would lead us to suppose.
Dr. Spurzheim also mentions two cases where the corpus
callosum was rent entirely assunder, and yet the individuals
continued to manifest their minds as usual.
But there are still three others to be seen at the base of
the brain by which Dr. Spurzheim considered the true com-
missures. They are
The Anterior,
The Middle, and
The Posterior,
each of which is about equal in size to a goose quill, and
they cross, (as their names indicate,) one in the front,
another in the middle, and the third in the back part of the
brain.
Besides these commissures there is in the front part of
the medulla oblongata, a decussation; that is, the fibres
cross from one side to the other in such a manner as to re-
semble plaited straw—the hemispheres being entirely separa-
ted from each other by a membrane, except where the com-
missures cross.
There are several parts seen in the median line which
do not seem to belong to either hemisphere, and the uses of
which are unknown. One of these is called the pineal gland,
and is about the size of a pea ; this is celebrated as the part
where Descartes fancied the soul to reside, and is situated
just above the posterior commissure, and seems to be attach-
ed to it.
Just above the same place are four other small round
bodies, known by the name of the quadrigeminal hodies.
There may be seen also in the median line at the base of
the brain, near where the optic nerves unite, two little
round bodies, which on account of their supposed resem-
blance to breasts, are called mamillary bodies ; and near
#•
flat*
Side view of the right Hemisphere.
F. S.
F. S . frontal Sinus.
P.V. Pons Varc/i.
M.O.M?duZ/a PMoTiyctla
a. Anlei'Lcr \^/unlTlJ of
m. Middle fM^M.O.
/i. Ppsterier)
S.C. Spin aJ Card /,-,• Llth. f'rcs. -iuffuh
SUBDIVISIONS. 35
them is another part called the infundibulam or funnel: the
very names which these parts have received betray the total
ignorance of anatomists concerning the offices which thev
perform.
SUBDIVISIONS OF THE HEMISPHERES.
The common subdivisions are into the Cerebrum, the
Cerebellum, the Medulla Oblongata, and the Spinal
Cord.
The spinal cord, (s. c. see plate 1st,) is contained within
the vertebra, or back bone, and extends from the lower part
of the back up to the medulla oblongata. It is considered
by Mr. Charles Bell, as composed of three independent
nervous columns, the Anterior, the Middle, and the
Posterior, (a, m, p.)
The anterior column Air. Bell considers as the medium
through which the brain acts upon the muscles to produce
voluntary motion.
The middle column he denominates the respiratory co-
lumn, because it sends branches to all the organs of respira-
tion, and the other parts that must act in harmony with the
lungs in speaking, laughing, crying, coughing, &c. He
considers it as related to respiratory motion only, and not
to sensation.
While I accord to Mr. Bell the merit of having first dis-
covered that the spinal cord is composed of three columns,*
I cannot admit that he has proved that the middle column is
exclusively devoted to respiratory motions and the posterior
to sensation. I doubt not that the principles unfolded in
this work will lead to a more philosophical view of the true
functions of these three columns and their relations to the
brain and the body.
*See Eclectic Journal of Medicine for June, 1838.
36 PHRENOLOGY.
Mr. Bell says that the " middle column stops short in the
medulla oblongata, not being in function related to the
brain, " &c, [see Bell on the Nerves,) but I contend that
it is as intimately and extensively related to the brain as
either of the other columns; it being the medium of com-
munication between the middle lobe of the brain and the
digestive and respiratory organs. It not only, in my opinion,
communicates motion to the respiratory organs, but it also
communicates sensations of hunger, thirst, and suffocation
to the brain.
The posterior column, according to Bell, is composed of
fibres that convey sensations to the brain. Thirty-one pairs
of nerves are sent off from the spinal cord to different parts
of the body, each of which has two roots, one in the anterior,
or column of voluntary motion, and the other in the posterior,
or column of sensation. As soon as these two roots leave the
spinal cord they unite into one nerve and proceed on their
way to the different parts of the body to which they are des-
tined. These, thirty-one pairs of nerves are remarkably
regular in their origin, their succession, and their distribu-
tion; but none of their fibres proceed from the middle column.
Besides, there are ten pairs of what Bell calls irregular
nerves, making in all, forty one pairs of nerves that pro-
ceed from the spinal cord.
The spinal cord, during the whole of its length, is about
the size of a man's finger, but when it enters the skull,
through the occipital hole, it gradually becomes larger until
it reaches the brain; this part, therefore, between the occi-
pital hole and the brain, is called the
MEDULLA OBLONGATA,
on account of its oblong form. This oblongata is considered
as the grand centre of communication between all parts of
the nervous system. It is the top or capital of the spinal
SUBDIVISIONS. 37
cord and joins it to the brain. It is the point where all
the phrenological organs concentrate their united fibres.
If the brain may be compared to a rose, and the phreno-
logical organs to its leaves, then the medulla oblongata will
represent the top of the stem, where all the leaves originate
and the spinal cord the rest of the stem.
The medulla oblongata has three prominences ; one in the
anterior part, corresponding with the anterior column of the
spinal cord ; these are named the 'pyramids, on account of
their form ;
(the plural number is used to include both
hemispheres, as there is in reality but one in each hemis-
phere.) These pyramids, Dr. Spurzheim considered as
the origin of the organs of intellect, in the anterior lobe of
the brain ; and he traced the fibres by dissection, from the
anterior column, or pyramids of the oblongata, to the anterior
lobe of the brain. In the middle column of the oblongata are
two eminences, (one in each hemisphere) which, on account
of their fancied resemblance in shape to olives, have received
the name of olivary bodies. I consider them as the origin
of the fibres that constitute the middle lobe of the brain,
and by dissection they may be traced into it.
In the posterior column of the oblongata are the two resti-
form bodies, (one in each hemisphere) so named on account
of their resemblance to cords ; these give origin to the cere-
bellum, and posterior lobe of the brain.
THE CEREBELLUM,
or little brain, occupies in the adult, about one seventh of
the skull, and is situated in the lower back part, in such a
manner as, when large, to give fullness to the upper part of
the neck. It is entirely separated from the rest of the brain
by a thin membrane called the tentorium, but is joined to the
medulla oblongata by the fibres of the restiform bodies. The
4
38 PHRENOLOGY.
cerebellum, is by phrenologists considered the organ of Ama*
tiveness, and notwithstanding its size would seem to pro-
claim its importance, no other use for it has been disco-
vered, although it has been the subject of many experiments
and conjectures.
THE CEREBRUM,
or brain proper, is by far the most important of the sub-
divisions, as it contains all the phrenological organs that
have been discovered, except one. The cerebrum is with
great propriety considered as consisting of three lobes in
each hemisphere,
The Anterior, occupying the forehead,
The Middle, occupying the sides, and
The Posterior, in the back part of the skull.
This is in remarkable agreement with the three columns
of the spinal cord, the three eminences or columns of the
medulla oblongata, and the three true commissures, which
have been described.
Is it not strange that phrenologists have hitherto over-
looked this evident division of the organs of mind into three
classes ?
VENTRICLES OP THE BRAIN.
Anatomists commonly reckon four cavities in the interior
of the brain ; one in each hemisphere, called the great
lateral ventricles, and two in the median line, between the
hemispheres, the foremost of which is the third, and the
space between the cerebellum and cerebrum is the fourth.
The third and fourth are too unimportant to deserve a parti-
cular description, as they are evidently mere accidental spaces
and are probably not intended to subserve any very impor-
VENTRICLES. 39
tant purpose: It is really surprising that they were ever
dignified so much as to be classed with the great lateral
ventricles. There is, therefore, in reality but one ventricle
in each hemisphere ; and even this is not strictly a cavity,
as its upper and under surfaces are in contact. There is a
thin membrane which lines the surfaces and prevents them
from adhering to each other, and which at the same time
supports a complicated tissue of blood-vessels that nourish
the interior of the brain.
The mouth of each ventricle is towards the median line,
so that when, in consequence of disease, water collects in
one cavity, it flows out into the other of the opposite hemis-
sphere; until in some extreme cases, the whole brain becomes
distended like a bladder—the convolutions upon the surface
are unfolded—the skull bones separate, and all the coverings
of the head give way and grow larger to make room for the
increasing contents, until the head assumes nearly twice the
usual size.
The under surface, or floor of the ventricle, assumes a
form, irregular and winding, in some measure corresponding
to the three lobes. This appearance has been denominated
tri-cornes, or three horns, on account of the ventricle exten-
ding its windings in three directions, anterior, middle and
posterior.
In the fore part of the bottom of the ventricle is the corpora
striata, or striped body—an eminence resembling half a
pear with its largest end in the front lobe and its opposite end
pointing outward and backward.
The optic thalami is another eminence larger than the
striata and situated just behind it. It receives its name
from the erroneous supposition that it is the origin of the
optic nerve. Spurzheim considered the striata and thalami
as composed of fibres on their way and expanding to form
at last the convolutions at the surface of the brain. The
40 PHRENOLOGY.
situation of these parts, concealed from observation, renders
their uses doubtful; the same is true of the fornix, a thin
layer of medullary substance, that covers the thalami. There
are also several other appearances, or parts in the ventricles
which have received ridiculous and fanciful names, but
nothing is known of their uses ; such are the hippo-campus
major and hippo-campus minor, &c.
SUBSTANCES OF THE BRAIN.
An examination of the surface of the brain shows it to
be composed of a cineritlous, or ashes colored substance, of
a pulpy consistence, which seems to be almost entirely com-
posed of a tissue of exceedingly minute bloodvessels. If a
cut is made so as to expose the internal substance of the brain
it will appear of a cream color, or nearly white, and instead
of being pulpy, like the cineritious substance, it is fibrous,
and resembles in firmness and structure the nerves of the
body. The cineritious substance is found in small quanti-
ties in the interior, but it is principally upon the outside,
and surrounds the brain, as the bark surrounds a tree, and
it has therefore been named the cortical or barklike sub-
stance.
The internal white fibrous substance is called the medul-
lary substance.
It was the opinion of Spurzheim that the cortical sub-
stance was the nourisher of the medullary, but nothing is
known with certainty on this subject.
CONVOLUTIONS OF THE BRAIN.
These are the folds, bounded by deep furrows, upon the
external surface of the brain. It has been suggested that
their use is to increase the surface of the brain without
CONVOLUTIONS. 41
adding to its bulk ; and this seems a plausible conjecture.
In the extreme cases of disease, to which I have alluded in
speaking of the ventricles, the convolutions are spread out
into a single sheet, just as the convolutions, or folds of an
umbrella are spread out into a single sheet when it is opened;
and this explains why persons whose heads are thus enlar-
ged frequently manifest their mental powers with ordinary
vigour; as the brain is merely unfolded, without its fibrous
structure being destroyed.
Every convolution is not an independent and distinct
phrenological organ, but in some instances several convo-
lutions combine to constitute one organ, and in others a
single convolution embraces an organ.
It is not therefore true, as some suppose, that each organ
of mind maybe separated from the rest of the brain by
anatomical dissection. Anatomy shows the perfect agree-
ment between the structure of the brain, so far as it is
understood, and the organs of mind as they appear upon the
surface of the skull. A skilful phrenological anatomist can
readily point out the particular convolutions that go to con-
stitute each organ; but no anatomist can trace the organs
beneath the surface of the brain and show the boundary
between them there. In the internal parts of the brain, the
fibres of all the organs are blended and confounded together,
so as to render it perfectly impossible to distinguish one
organ from another. Anatomy affords no direct proof of
the truth of phrenology. We study the structure of the
brain to find an explanation of well established phreno-
logical facts, and not to find evidence of their truth.
Phrenology was first dicovered, not by an examination
or dissection of the brain, but by observing the agreement
between the disposition of men and animals and the forms
of their heads .
The brain was afterwards examined, and its
structure analyzed with great care, in the hope that it would
4*
42 PHRENOLOGY.
shed some new light upon the subject ; but anatomy has
hitherto been of little use to phrenology; on the contrary, we
are indebted to phrenology for nearly all our useful know-
ledge concerning the anatomy of the brain.
So far as the anatomy of the brain is understood, it is in
beautiful harmony with phrenology, but it is a great mistake
to suppose that phrenology is dependent upon anatomy for
evidence by which to establish its truth. Those opponents,
therefore, who object to phrenology because it cannot be
proved by dissection, evince an unpardonable ignorance of
the subject. Most people cannot understand why so many
physicians, who are supposed to know the nature of the brain
disbelieve in phrenology; but the truth is, physicians are
little wiser concerning the brain than other men; and even
if they were ever so well acquainted with anatomy, they
could not on that account, be able to judge concerning the
truth of phrenology better than those who are entirely igno-
rant upon that subject. Any man who is capable of percei-
ving the forms and sizes which the head assumes in different
individuals, and comparing their developements with their
conduct, can judge concerning the truth of phrenology as
well as the most eminent medical professor.
ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN.
All anatomists agree, that the amount of blood which the
brain receives, is at least four times greater than that of any
other part of the constitution of equal bulk. This astonish-
ing fact, proclaims- the great importance of the arterial
system and organs of respiration to the operations of mind.
The blood enters the brain by four different passages; two
in front, called the right and left carotid arteries, and two
in the back of the head, called the right and left vertebral
arteries. It is curious to observe the contrivance which
VEINS, OR SINUSES. 43
prevents the blood from entering the delicate mass of the
brain too suddenly and forcibly. Before the arteries are
permitted to enter the skull, they are made to traverse
several winding and almost retrograde passages, and
encounter several obstructions, that serve to check the
force of the current; the blood then enters the skull through
four different arteries, that all unite at the base of the brain
to form one great depot; which, although not exactly in the
form of a circle, is denominated the circle of Willis; and
it is from this circle that the blood finally takes its departure
to enter the substance of the brain. Besides the arteries of
the cerebellum, there are three principal arteries which go
from the circle to the cerebrum; they are
The Anterior,
The Middle, and
The Posterior,
so named from the three lobes of the brain which they sup-
ply; each of these arteries subdivide into an upper and
under branch before they lose themselves in the brain.
veins, or sinuses of the brain.
Although the blood enters the brain by four different
channels, it is all returned through one great vein—;he
longitudinal sinus—which is situated in the median Sne
between the hemispheres. It commences near the orgar of
Individuality, and follows the skull over to the lower part of
Parentiveness; it then divides into two branches, one pas-
sing to the right, leaves the skull "near Combativensss;
the other passing to the left, leaves the skull in a similar
manner. The course of this great sinus may be traced on
the inner surface of the skull by the deep impression it
makes in the bone, particularly at the back part, where it
44 PHRENOLOGY.
is much larger than in front, in consequence of the nume-
rous veins which empty into it as it proceeds.
COVERINGS OF THE BRAIN.
The brain has five separate coverings;
1st. The pia mater, or soft mother, so called from a belief
that all the membranes of the body sprung from it. This is
a thin, delicate, transparent membrane, that exactly fits the
surface of the brain, sinking down into every furrow and
convolution, and passing into every cavity; it acts as a kind
of supporter to the numerous branches of bloodvessels that
traverse the external and internal surfaces of the brain in
every direction.
2d. The tunica arachnoida, so called on account of its re-
semblance to a spider's web; this embraces the brain like
network, but does not sink down into the depressions as the
pia mater does; it is so delicate and fine that it was unob-
served by ancient anatomists.
3d. The dura mater, or hard mother, a thick and strong
Membrane, passes over the tunica arachnoida and sinks
cipwn between the hemispheres in the median line; it serves
tc separate them from each other. This part or process
ofkhe dura mater is called the falx, on account of its resem-
blance to a scythe: another part passes between the cerebel-
lum and cerebrum, and separates them from each other; this
is called the tentorium.
4th. The skull or cranium is composed of six bones,
The Frontal, of the forehead,
I'he two Temporal, of the temples,
The two Parietal, of the sides and top of the head, and
The Occipital, at the back of the head.
Besides these, are the Sphenoid, and Ethmoid bones at the
base of the brain. The places where the edges of the bones
are joined, are called sutures.
COVERINGS. 45
The principal sutures are,
The coronal, passing over the cranium and joining the
frontal to the parietal bones.
The squamous, or scaly sutures, that join the temporal
to the parietal.
The lambdoidal, joins the occipital to the parietal bones;
this is so named because it resembles in form one of the
Greek letters.
The saggittal, that joins the two parietal together in the
median line, so named from its resemblance to an arrow.
There are many unimportant sutures in the base of the
cranium that do not concern practical phrenology. The
manner in which the sutures appear is called serated, or
sawlike, on account of the manner in which the bones join
each other. It is necessary to know the places of the sutures,
as they frequently produce ridges that are mistaken for
developements of brain; they may, however, be easily dis-
tinguished by their angular abrupt appearances. There are
also several processes, or prominences of the skull, that are
frequently mistaken by novices, for phrenological organs;
one of these is the mastoid process, just behind the ear ; this
is sometimes mistaken for Combativeness, but is just below
the main part of that organ, and is much more sharp and
angular: another is the occipital spine, situated near Philo-
progenitiveness, and is sometimes protruded more than an
inch; Dr. Good very shrewdly suggested, that this bony
process is intended to protect the brain in case of falling and
striking the back of the head on the ice. There is another
small prominence near Imperativeness, which in some
cases modifies the appearance of that organ, and sometimes
there is a slight depression just below this part, caused by
the manner in which the bones united in infancy, making
the organ appear small when it is full, but the depression
is between Inhabitiveness and Imperativeness.
46 PHRENOLOGY.
If we break the skull and look at the broken edge, we
shall see that it is not composed of solid bone all the way
through, but there is a layer about as thick as a half dollar
which constitutes the outer table, or that part of the skull
next to the hair; there is another inner table next to the
brain; and between the two tables is a spongy, coarse strata,
called the diploe. In the average of white adults, the skull,
including the two tables and the diploe, is near a quarter of
an inch thick.
The negroes have the thickest skulls I have ever seen: and
I have observed that the thickness of the skull is in propor-
tion to the coarseness of the constitution generally, and the
developement of the oseous system in particular.
The frontal sinus is a part of the skull, just over the organs
of Individuality and Locality, where the inner and outer
tables generally become more distant from each other, as age
advances; allowing the diploe to occupy a larger space.
This cavity renders it sometimes difficult to judge correctly
concerning these organs, but its presence and size can be
estimated by the peculiar swelling appearance which it
assumes, being more sudden and abrupt than phrenological
developements; besides,,it does not exist in children, and even
in adults it seldom becomes a serious obstacle to a skilful
practitioner.
5th. The scalp is a very thin muscular integument, that
covers the skull; this offers no obstacle to phrenological ob-
servation, except at the temple, in the region of Constructive-
ness and Acquisitiveness; here the mastoid muscle is situated,
which sometimes renders this part prominent, like a deve-
lopement of brain; but the thickness of the muscle is easily
ascertained by pressing it firmly with the fingers, and causing
the individual to move his jaw at the same time,
CHAPTER V
CLASSIFICATION OF THE ORGAiNS.
The accidental and promiscuous manner in which Dr.
Gall made his first discoveries, was extremely unfavorable
to any systematic arrangement or philosophical explana-
tion of the organs. Dr. Spurzheim has deservedly received
much credit for improving the science in this respect, and
correcting the very natural errors of his illustrious friend.
The following is Spurzheim's last and most improved
arrangement and nomenclature.
Order 1—FEELINGS OR AFFECTIVE FACULTIES.
Genus I.
—
Propensities.
t Desire to live. 5. Inhabitiveness.
* Alimentiveness. 6. Combativeness.
1. Destructiveness. 7. Secretiveness.
2. Amativeness. 8. Acquisitiveness.
3. Philoprogenitiveness. 9. Constructiveness.
4. Adhesiveness.
Genus II.
—
Sentiments.
10. Cautiousness. 16. Conscientiousness.
11. Approbativeness. 17. Hope.
12. Self-Esteem. 18. Marvellousness.
13. Benevolence. 19. Ideality.
14. Reverence. 20. Mirthfulness.
15. Firmness. 21. Imitation.
48 PHRENOLOGY.
Order II.—INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
Genus I.
—
External Senses.
Voluntary motion. Smell.
Feeling. Hearing.
Taste. Sight.
Genus II.
—
Perceptive Faculties.
22. Individuality. 28. Order.
23. Configuration. 29. Calculation.
24. Size. 30. Eventuality.
25. Weight and resistance. 31. Time.
26. Coloring. 32. Tune.
27. Locality. 33. Artificial language.
Genus III.
—
Reflective Faculties.
34. Comparison. 35. Casuality.
The following is the Classification adopted by Mr. George
Combe, in his " System of Phrenology." There is no essen-
tial difference between him and Spurzheim except on the
organ of Inhabitiveness.
Order I.—FEELINGS.
Genus I.
—
Propensities.
1. Amativeness. Alimentiveness.
2. Philoprogenitiveness. Love of Life.
3. Concentrativeness. 7. Secretiveness.
4. Adhesiveness. 8. Acquisitiveness.
5. Combativeness. 9. Constructiveness.
6. Destructiveness.
Genus II.
—
Sentiments common to Man with the Lower
Animals.
10. Self-Esteem. 12. Cautiousness.
11. Love of Approbation.
CLASSIFICATION. 49
Genus III.
—
Superior Sentiments.
13. Benevolence. 18. Wonder.
14. Veneration. 19. Ideality.
15. Firmness. 20. Wit or Mirthfulness.
16. Conscientiousness. 21. Imitation.
17. Hope.
Order II.—INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
Genus I.
—
External Senses.
Feeling or Touch. Smell.
Taste. Hearing.
Genus II.
—
Intellectual Faculties which perceive
Existence and Physical Qualities.
22. Individuality. 25. Weight.
23. Form. 26. Coloring.
24. Size.
Genus III.
—
Intellectual Faculties which perceive
RELATIONS OF EXTERNAL OBJECTS.
27. Locality. 31. Time.
28. Number. 32. Tune.
29. Order. 33. Language.
30. Eventuality.
Genus IV.
—
Reflecting Faculties.
34. Comparison. 35. Causality.
The importance of aiming at a correct arrangement
of the organs will be better understood after reading the
following quotation from "Combe's System of Phrenology,"
pages 105 and 6:
" Dr. Spurzheim divides the faculties into two orders,
Feeling and Intellect, or into affective and intellectual
faculties. The feelings are subdivided into two genera,
Propensities and Sentiments. He applies the name pro-
pensities to indicate internal impulses, which invite only to
5
50 PHRENOLOGY.
certain actions ; and sentiments designate other feelings,
not limited to inclination alone, but which have an emotion
of a peculiar kind superadded. Acquisitiveness, for exam-
ple, is a mere impulse to acquire; Veneration gives a ten-
dency to worship, accompanied with a particular emotion,
which latter quality is the reason of its being denominated
a Sentiment.
" The second order of faculties makes us acquainted with
objects which exist, their qualities and relations; and they
are called intellectual. They are subdivided by Dr. Spurz-
heim into, four genera. The first includes the external
senses and voluntary motion ; the second, those internal
powers which perceive existence; or make man and animals
acquainted with external objects, and their physical quali-
ties; and the third, the powers which perceive the relations
of external objects. These three genera are named percep-
tive faculties. The fourth genus comprises the faculties
which act on all the other powers, which compare, judge,
and discriminate; and these are named reflective faculties.
44
The names of the faculties employed in this work are,
with few exceptions, those suggested by Dr. Spurzheim. To
designate propensity, the termination ive is added to a root
or fundamental word, and indicates the quality ofproducing;
and ness, the abstract state, as Destructiveness. The termi-
nation ous, characterises a sentiment, as Cautious, Consci-
entious. To these is added ness, to express the abstract
state, as Cautiousness, Conscientiousness. The names of
the intellectual faculties are easily understood, and do not
require any particular explanation.
"Considerable difficulty attends the arrangement of the
faculties and organs. In the first and second editions of
this work, they were arranged and numbered according to
the order adopted in Dr. Spurzheim's New Physiognomical
System, published in 1815. The principle of that arrange-
CLASSIFICATION. 51
ment was, as far as possible, philosophical. The organs
common to man and the lower animals came first, beginning
with the lowest, and ascending. The organs of the moral
sentiments were next treated of; and, lastly, the organs of
intellect. Since 1815, the great divisions of this classifica-
tion have been retained, but repeated alterations have been
made by Dr. Spurzheim in the arrangement of the details.
It appears impossible to arrive at a correct classification
until all the organs, and also the primitive faculty or ulti-
mate function of each, shall be definitely ascertained, which
is not at present the case. Till this end shall be accom-
plished, every interim arrangement will be in danger of
being overturned by subsequent discoveries. In the mean
time, however, for the sake of uniformity, I adopt Dr. Spurz-
heim's last order of arrangement. During his visit to Edin-
burgh in 1828, he demonstrated the anatomy of the brain,
and traced out the connexion between the organs in a man*
ner so clear and satisfactory, that the basis of his arrange-
ment appeared founded in nature. Dr. Gall seems not to
have adopted any philosophical principle of classification;
but it is proper that his names and order should be known.
I shall, therefore add to the present work a table of his order.
"In the case of many of the organs, observations have
been made to such an extent, that the functions are held to
be ascertained; and in regard to others, where the observa-
tions have been fewer, the functions are stated as probahle.
There is no difference of opinion among phrenologists in
regard to the kind of manifestations which accompany the
organs set down as established; their differences touch only
the result of the metaphysical analysis of the feelings and
intellectual powers, and the order of their arrangement."
After reading the preceding quotation from Mr. Combe,
the advantages of the new arrangement which I propose
will be appreciated.
52 PHRENOLOGY.
NEW CLASSIFICATION.
I find the cerebral organs of all animals evidently divi-
ded into three classes; each of which, commencing at the
base of the brain with a single organ, expands and proceeds
upwards, receiving new additions as the animal rises in
the scale of beings.
Class 1.
—
Ipseal,* or Self-Relative propensities.
Class 2.
—
Social, or Society-Relative propensities.
Class 3.
—
Intellectual, or Knowledge-Relative faculties.
Each of these classes may be subdivided into ranges, or
groups, to correspond with the progressive stages of ani-
mal character, from the lowest species of the zoophites that
seem to claim kindred with the vegetable, up to man, who
is "but little lower than the angels."
*\
Class 1
—
Ipseals,
Ranges.
1 Alimentiveness.
2 Destructiveness.
3 Combativeness.
4 Secretiveness.
5 Cautiousness.
6 Constructiveness.
7 Acquisitiveness.
8 Playfulness.
9 Perfectiveness.
10 Hopefulness.
Class 2.
—
Socials.
Groups.
Class 3.
—
Intellectuals.
Ranees.
|*jg
H.5S 2
2
,3
14
f
5
Amativeness.
Parentiveness.
Inhabitiveness.
Adhesiveness.
Imperativeness.
Approbativeness.
Firmness.
6
q ^8 Conscientiousness. ^9 Number,
1 Individuality.
2 Chemicality.
3 Language.
4 Form.
| { 5 Size.
6 Weight.
7 Colour.
8 Order.
5° ( 9 Submissiveness. f 10 Direction.
§ j 10 Kindness. g \ 11 Eventuality.
f ) 11 Imitativeness. 2 j
12 Time.
£ ^12Credenciveness. S ^13 Tune.
£ ^ 14 Comparison.
£ \ 15 Causality.
*From the Latin Ipse—self.
CLASSIFICATION. 53
This division into three classes, Ipseal, Social, and
Intellectual, is founded upon the following considera-
tions :
First, Anatomy points continually to three grand divi-
sions
—
1. The spinal cord is in three columns, anterior, mid-
dle and posterior; and Mr. Charles Bell has demonstrated
that all the nerves which proceed from one column, are des-
tined to perform one class of functions. The nerves from
the anterior column are for volition; those from the mid-
dle, for respiration and nutrition; and those from the poste-
rior, for sensation.
2. The medulla oblongata, Mr. Bell considers as a con-
tinuation of the same three columns of the spinal cord; but
as he w^as little acquainted with the science of phrenology,
this great anatomist was unable to trace the three columns
up into the brain. The medulla oblongata has three
bodies,
The pyramidal, in the anterior,
The olivary, in the middle, and
The restiform, in the posterior column.
3. The brain proper has always been divided into three
lobes; anterior, middle, and posterior; and this division
may be found strongly marked in the brains of all the higher
animals. Spurzheim found by dissection, that the fibres of
the anterior pyramidal bodies of the oblongata, expanded
into and constituted the anterior lobes of the brain; and he
contended that the middle and posterior lobes originated in
the other two parts of the oblongata.
4. All anatomists agree that the cerebellum, or organ of
Amativeness, has its primary fibres in the posterior column
of the oblongata ; and when we consider that this is the foun-
dation of the social class, we shall be at once struck with
the harmony which it exhibits with the other facts upon
5*
54 PHRENOLOGY.
which my classification is based. Mr. Bell asserts that the
cerebellum contains the elements of the whole posterior
column of the spinal cord; but no phrenologist will agree
with him, since we have abundant evidence that the cere-
bellum is but the single organ of Amativeness, and it is not
therefore reasonable that the third part of the spinal cord
and all the nerves of sensation are related to this single
propensity only.
5. Each hemisphere has a great lateral ventricle, and
this ventricle presents an appearance which has been de-
nominated tri-cornes, or three horns, anterior, middle, and
posterior.
6. There are three commissures at the base of the brain,
which Spurzheim called the true commissures—the ante-
rior, middle and posterior.
There is no other phrenological principle which is suppor-
ted by so many anatomical facts, and 1 cannot but hope that
its discovery will serve to render phrenology more acceptable
and useful to medical and scientific men, simplifying as it
does the knowledge of the brain and nervous system.
Second. The natural history of animals is all in har-
mony with this classification.
1. The three powers, viz. Alimentiveness, Amativeness.
and Individuality, which constitute the foundation of the
three classes, are manifested by all animals. No animal,
however low in the scale of beings, is destitute of these three:
even the vegetable kingdom may be said to possess Ali-
mentiveness and Amativeness; every vegetable instinctively
disposes its limbs and roots in such a manner as to obtain
nourishment, and propagate its species. If we pass to those
animals that are but one degree above the vegetable, we
shall find them manifesting Individuality in addition. They
not only endeavour to obtain nourishment and propagate
their species, but they also recognize the existence of those
CLASSIFICATION. 55
surrounding objects which are adapted to their propensities.
2. The organs of these three powers are found at the
very base of the brain :
Amativeness, at the lowest posterior,
Alimentiveness, at the lowest middle, and
Individuality, in the centre of the lowest front part of the
brain.
The powers of the mind are divided into two grand or-
ders,
I. —PROPENSITIES,
or blind impulses, which are the causes of all actions.
II. —INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES,
that acquire knowledge and point out the means by which
the propensities may be gratified. If we had no propensi-
ties we should do nothing; and if we had no intellectual fac-
ulties we should know nothing; in proportion to the number
of propensities the actions of animals are complicated:
in proportion to the size of their organs their actions are
powerful: in proportion to the number of the intellectual
faculties, the knowledge of animals is various, and the
thoughts complicated; and in proportion to the size of their
organs, the amount of knowledge will be greater, and the
thoughts more correct.
In the Intellectual Class, if we commence at Individuality,
we find it manifested by the very lowest animals; and if we
then proceed upwards, according to the numbering of the
bust, we shall perceive that the organs rise and expand out
of each other in a manner strictly agreeing with the pro-
gressive intelligence of animals; Causality, the highest of
this class, being manifested in a vigorous and efficient man-
56 PHRENOLOGY.
ner only by man, the very, highest and most complicated of
organized beings.
The -propensities are divided into
Ipseals, or Self-Relatives, and
Socials, or Society-Relatives.
The Ipseals produce those actions only, which have for
their object the nourishment, protection, improvement and
happiness of the individual.
The Socials originate those actions only, which have for
their object the production, the establishment, and the gov-
ernment of society, and conformity to its useful regulations.
In the Ipseal Class, if we commence at Alimentiveness,
we see it manifested by all organized beings; if we proceed
upward, according to the numbering of the bust, we find
the first and second ranges of Ipseals manifested by the
lower classes of animals; the third range is manifested only
by the higher and more sagacious animals; and the fourth
range is fully manifested only by man, and in his brain only
is it found fully developed.
In the Social Class, if we commence at Amativeness, we
also find this manifested by all organized nature, both vege-
table and animal. If we proceed upward and forward ac-
cording to the numbers on the bust, until we arrive at Cre-
denciveness, we shall trace the progress of society, from its
very lowest stage in vegetable life, up through every grade
of animals, to its highest perfection in the most polished
circles of human society.
The history of the phrenological organs, therefore, when
properly arranged, contains within itself the history of all
animated nature.
TECHNICAL TERMS. 57
TECHNICAL TERMS.
Every new and progressive science, necessarily labours
under the disadvantages which result from a change of it?
technical terms; and although all innovations in this respect
encounter more or less opposition, yet, if they are real im-
provements, the public finally gives them a triumphant
reception.
Every science also furnishes evidence of the necessity of
limiting the terms used, with as much precision and accu-
racy as possible; there is nothing in works of science that
contribute more to confusion than using as synonymous,
words and expressions which have very different significa-
tions; or using technical terms in a vague and indefinite
manner. In polite literature, a latitude of expression and an
ambiguity of meaning, may be of trifling consequence, but
in works of science, nothing is more seriously injurious.
When explaining the organs, 1 shall give the reasons
for any alterations that are introduced in their names; but
it is necessary to define in this place, some of the more gene-
ral terms which are frequently used unphilosophically.
Organ, when applied to this subject, means an instrument
formed by nature and adapted to perform a useful office.
Organized, signifies that a thing is composed of organs;
thus vegetables and animals are said to be organized, and
all other things unorganized.
Function, is the proper action, or office of an organ.
Anatomy, explains the structure of organs.
Physiology, explains the functions of organs.
Pathology, explains the disease of organs.
Power, is used synonymously with Junction; thus we say,
" the powers of the mind,
r?
meaning the functions of the
organs of mind. I apply the term potver to all the organs.
58 PHRENOLOGY.
Faculty, has been generally adopted by phrenologists as
synonymous with power and function; thus we say " the
faculties of the mind," " the faculty of an organ," &c.
but I prefer using the word power in this general manner.
In this work I apply the term faculty only to the intellec-
tual organs. A person may have a. faculty to do a thing
and not have any propensity or inclination to do it ; or he
may have the propensity without the faculty. When we
consider that the faculty or ability of performing any ope-
ration, depends upon the intellectual organs, and the incli-
nation to perform it upon the blind propensities, we shall
see the impropriety of applying the term faculty to the
propensities. It is undoubtedly true that a propensity
may contribute to produce a faculty of constructing, or
acquiring, or imitating; but it does so only by keeping
the attention of the intellectuals directed to the subject.
Propensity, is a blind impulse to action; I apply this term
to the functions of all the organs of mind, except the in-
tellectuals. Spurzheim denominates the propensities "af-
fective faculties," and divides them into
Animal Propensities,
Inferior Sentiments, and
Superior Sentiments.
"He applies," says Mr. Combe, "the name, propensi-
ties to indicate internal impulses, which invite only to
certain actions; and sentiments, designate other feelings,
not limited to inclination alone, but which have an emotion
of a peculiar kind superadded. Acquisitiveness, for
example, is a mere impulse to acquire; Veneration gives a
tendency to worship, accompanied with a particular emo-
tion, which latter quality is the reason of its being denomi-
nated a sentiment."
This distinction between propensities and sentiments,
seems to me entirely unfounded; I see no objection to
TECHNICAL TERMS. 59
using the term sentiment to designate the higher propen-
sities, and distinguish them from the lower; but I respect-
fully deny that they are accompanied with any "emo-
tions of a peculiar kind superadded," which will thereby
enable us to distinguish them from the lower propensities.
Is notCombativeness, or Adhesiveness, accompanied with
a peculiar emotion, as well as Imitativeness, or Firmness
or even -Veneration?- Yet, the latter are denominated
sentiments, on account of their possessing emotions, while
the former are degraded to animal propensities, because
they are supposed to be destitute ofemotions ! The truth
is, every propensity and sentiment is, when active, ac-
companied with an emotion peculiar to itself; and in
this respect, the higher powers enjoy no advantage over
the ower; on the contrary the lower propensities, having
the largest organs, are accompanied with the most power-
ful emotions.
Sentiment, may therefore be conveniently used to distin-
guish the higher propensities from the lower, but there
cannot easily be a line drawn between, so that we can
with propriety say, all above are sentiments, and all be-
low animal propensities. Every organ, as we mount the
scale, is higher than the preceding, but there can be no
point where low ends, and high begins.
Emotion is the feeling of which we are conscious when any
of the propensities are active; thus, anger, is an emo-
tion produced by the excited state of the propensity of
Destructiveness; vanity, is an emotion produced by Appro-
bativeness; pity, an emotion produced by Kindness, &c.
Feeling, is synonymous with emotion, and not with pro-
pensity, as it is generally considered. Feeling is the effect
of propensity. When, therefore, Spurzheim denominated
the fundamental propensities, « feelings," he confounded
(30 PHRENOLOGY.
cause and effect together. A propensity, being active,
produces a feeling or emotion.
Instinct, is synonymous with propensity, but is generally
applied to the minds of animals in opposition to the rea-
soning powers of man. Thus it is said that animals are
guided by instinct, and man by reason; but this is unphi-
losophical, for animals do reason, although imperfectly;
and man is possessed of all the instincts of animals, al-
though he also has higher and nobler powers superadded.
Passion, is a violent emotion.
Affection, is nearly synonymous with feeling; it is a mode
of action of the propensities.
Sense, in its most proper meaning, is the function of the
nerves that convey impressions to the brain.
Sensation, is the perception of the impressions conveyed
to the brain by the senses.
Sensible, signifies that the senses are active.
Sensibility, is a state favorable to sensation.
Sensitiveness, is nearly synonymous with sensibility.
Perception, is the function of the intellectual organs.
CHAPTER VI.
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
All knowledge depends upon this class of organs: they
may be divided into
External Senses,
Perceptives, and
Reflectives.
Spurzheim subdivided the perceptives into those that per-
ceive existence and physical qualities, as Form, Size, Weight
and Color; and those that perceive the relations of things,
as Direction, Number, Order, Eventuality, Time, Tune, and
Language. I do not object to this as a metaphysical analy-
sis, but I deem it of great importance to follow the arrange-
ment of nature, as far as it can be ascertained; therefore
I arrange the organs according to the order in which they
are developed in the brain. I commence with Individuality,
the foundation organ of the Intellectual Class. It originates
at the medulla oblongata, in the centre of the base of the
6
g2 PHRENOLOGY.
brain, and runs forward in the median line until it reaches
the anterior extremity of the.frontal lobe, so as when large,
to make the forehead prominent at the top of the nose.
Next is the organ of Chemicality, situated at the root ol
Individuality; and, whether we consider the office which it
performs, or its location, or the history of animals, we must
f if we admit its existence) rank it next to Individuality.
The organ of Language is next; this also is at the root
of Individuality, although not so far back as Chemicality.
I consider Language as one of the lowest animal perceptives,
and not as some do, the very highest: I shall explam this
when speaking of the organ of Language.
Form, also originates at the root of Individuality, and
then runs forward parallel with it.
Size, Weight, Color, Order, and Number, branch outm
the succession in which they are named. Their roots all
seem to point to the root of Individuality, as the branches of
a tree point towards the trunk. A glance at the plate rep-
resenting the base of the brain, will show at once the proprie-
ty of this arrangement, and its harmony with nature.-
These organs I call the Lower Range.
The other organs of Intellect cannot be seen at the base
of the brain, but they appear at the anterior extrem.ty of
the frontal lobe, so as when long and large to give promi-
nence and expansion to the forehead. Direction, Eventuality,
Time and Tune, constitute the Middle Range, and Com-
parison and Causality, the Upper Range.
The following arrangement will now be understood.
EXTERNAL SENSES.
Touch. Hearing.
Taste. Sight.
Smell.
INTELLECTUALS. 63
LOWER RANGE OP PERCEPTIVES.
1. Individuality. 5. Size.
2. Chemicality. 6. Weight.
3. Language. 7. Color.
4. Form. 8. Order.
9. Number.
MIDDLE RANGE OF PERCEPTIVES.
10. Direction. 12. Time.
11. Eventuality. 13. Tune.
UPPER RANGE, OR REFLECTIVES.
14. Comparison. 15. Causality.
NERVES OF THE EXTERNAL SENSES.
These are the nerves that convey to the brain impressions
from the external world. The common opinion is correct,
that all our knowledge concerning the objects by which we
are surrounded, is obtained through the medium of the five
senses. If an individual were born without any of these
organs, he would be a mere vegetable; though all the other
parts of his constitution were perfect, they could not act
with intelligence. Even when one only of the senses is
wanting, or lost, the unfortunate person is deprived of the
power of receiving information through that channel, and
in the pathetic language of Milton,
" Wisdom through one entrance quite shut out."
But I cannot for a moment countenance the notion that
the senses perceive or know. They only receive from the
64 PHRENOLOGY.
external world, and convey to the brain, the materials of
knowledge; and it is the office of the perceptives to work up
the materials into sensations, perceptions, ideas, &c.
Before the organs of perception in the brain were discov-
ered, it was a natural error to ascribe to the eye the power
of perceiving colors, distances and forms; to the ear the
power of perceiving melody, and to the touch, the power
of perceiving weight; but the functions of the external sen-
ses being now better understood, they can be deemed only
vehicles for impressions. Spurzheim made a distinction
between the immediate and mediate functions of the senses.
In his chapter on the external senses, he says:—" The
spheres of immediate activity of the five senses are very
limited; feeling perceives only dryness, moisture and tem-
perature; taste, savours; smell, odours; the ears, sound;
and the eyes, light. All the other functions are only me-
diate."
Now I deny that the eye perceives light—the ear, sound
—
the smell, odours—the taste, savours—and the touch, mois-
ture, &c. It is, in my opinion, the office of Individuality
to perceive light, sound, savours, odours, &c; the eye re-
ceives the light, the retina is impressed, and the optic nerve
conveys the impression to the brain, and there Individuality
perceives the light, and the organ of Colour perceives the
colour, the organ of Form the shape, &c.
Touch.—The innumerable branches of the nerves of this
sense, proceed from the most minute and remote parts of
the body to the brain, conveying impressions of weight,
temperature, moisture, &c.
Taste.—The sense of taste is a branch of the fifth pair
that proceeds from the tongue to the medulla oblongata,
conveying to the brain impressions of the savour of bodies
that come in contact with the tongue, in a state of solution.
Smell.—The organ of smell is the olfactory nerve, which
INDIVIDUALITY. 65
proceeds in numerous branches from the nasal organ to the
brain, and is lost in its substance at the organ of Chemicality;
this sense conveys to the brain impressions of odorous par-
ticles which are detached from distant bodies and mingled
with the air.
Hearing. —The auditory nerve is a branch of the seventh
pair, called the portio mollis, and proceeds from the inter-
nal part of the ear to the medulla oblongata, and conveys
the impressions of sound.
Sight.—The optic nerve has one extremity in the eye,
constituting the retina, and may be traced from the eye to
the brain near the medulla oblongata; it conveys impres-
sions of light
LOWER RANGE OF PERCEPT1VES.
1. INDIVIDUALITY.
11
They see, but do not perceive."
—
Isaiah.
This is the faculty that perceives the impressions that are
conveyed by the senses to the brain. It is the first organ
of the intellect that acts, and the only one that is immediate-
ly and directly acted upon by the senses. Until this has
been excited, none of the other intellectual organs can per-
form their functions. This is the great fundamental organ
of the knowledge-relative class, and all the rest are super-
additions. It takes notice of individual things and existences
—it perceives things in their collective and individual state
—
it takes cognizance of all that immense class of ideas inclu-
ded under the grammatical term nouns—and it bears pre-
cisely the same relation to the other Intellectuals that the
noun does to the other parts of speech in grammar. When.
6*
66 Phrenology.
this is large and vigorous, all the others are compelled to act
their part in proportion to their size; being mere emanations,
like so many streams from one grand fountain, their action
is dependent upon, and in perfect harmony with it.
However large the nerves of the external senses may be,
the impressions which they convey to the brain will excite
comparatively little action in the Intellect, if this important
inlet to the mind be contracted in its dimensions. This is the
first faculty of this class that is manifested by animals after
they come into existence; as soon as they begin to use their
senses, they also begin to exercise Individuality. The sen-
ses and this faculty are co-existent; every animal, however
low in the scale of beings, as soon as it manifests the senses,
manifests this also. It is the possession of this which may
be said to constitute the distinction between the animal and
vegetable kingdoms. Vegetables manifest two propensities,
viz. Alimentiveness and Amativeness, but they do not mani-
fest in an undoubted manner, any of the Intellectuals, nor
do they possess any of the senses ; their Alimentive and
Amative propensities seem to be guided merely by chemical
attraction. I am aware that some philosophers consider
vegetables as but a lower order of animals, but even if this
be admitted, it affords no argument against these views.
The Polypus (Fig. 1.) bears in its external appearance, a
striking resemblance to vegetables—like them it manifests
but two propensities.
Fixed like a plant to its peculiar spot,
To draw nutrition—propagate—and rot.
But if any thing comes in contact with its limbs, fitted to
gratify Alimentiveness, they immediately contract and draw
the object into a hollow, which runs the whole length of
its trunk, and which answers the purpose both of stomach
and belly; all the indigestible parts being expelled again by
the same orifice where they entered. They sometimes
INDIVIDUALITY. 61
swallow a whole fish, (Fig. 2.) and the body being trans-
parent, the form of the fish appears through it.
Ft jr. 1 Fig. 2.
This is a specimen of the lowest stage of animal existence;
but even here we see the sense of touch, and the faculty of
Individuality manifested in the most perfect manner, besides
the two vegetable propensities.
If we glance at the representation of the base of the brain,
we see the organs of these three principal powers,
Individuality, at the centre of the lowest front,
Alimentiveness, at the lowest part of the middle,
Amativeness, at the lowest back part of the brain.
A large Individuality is absolutely necessary to enable one
to arrive at eminence in practical life. An artist, how-
ever well developed his head may be in other respects, if
this organ of general attention, be small, he will be like-
ly to overlook some of the less obvious details of his per-
formance, and when a critic points out an error, he will
exclaim—Oh ! I did not see that \" and yet perhaps his
vision is perfect.
63 PHRENOLOGY
The author, who has it large, uses many nouns. The
" Iron bound bucket," by Woodworm, is a beautiful illus-
tration.
11
How dear to my heart are the scenes of my childhood,
When fond recollection recalls them to view,
The orchard, the meadow, the deep-tangled wildwood,
And every loved spot which my infancy knew;
The wide-spreading pond, and the mill that stood by it,
The bridge and the rock where the cataract fell,
The cot of my father, —the dairy-house nigh it,
And e'en the rude bucket that hung in the well.
That old oaken bucket,
That iron-bound bucket,
That moss-covered bucket that hung in the well.
The ancient physiognomists remarked, that their great
men were full at the top of the nose, and all their portraits
and busts that have come down to us, show them to have
been large in this part, which was evidently mistaken for
a part of the nose. I have never yet seen a great general,
statesman, mechanic or naturalist, who was very small here.
I have seen high, wide and full foreheads, upon persons who
were little less than fools, on account of a deficiency in this
important organ. Again, I have seen persons with this
very large, who were, notwithstanding, perfect idiots, on
account of the great deficiency of the reflectives.
Fie. 3.
[Large and small Individuality.]
CHEMICALIT Y. 69
Individuality not only receives impressions from external
objects, but it also receives and recognizes impressions from
the internal organs; the consciousness which we feel of the
existence of emotions and thoughts, depends on this organ,
in connection with Eventuality.
We have then a correct idea of the external senses when
we consider them as instruments of communication between
the external world and Individuality. And we have correct
ideas of Individuality, when we consider it the organ where
all impressions are received and recognized, both from exter-
nal objects and internal organs. But we must not confound
the power of perceiving the existence of things and ideas,
and feelings, with the power of perceiving the qualities and
relations of things, such as their form, size, color, density,
arrangement, action, &c; these depend upon other organs,,
which I shall proceed to explain in the order in which I
find them developed.
2. CHEMICALITY.
u Who taught the nations of the field and wood.
To shun their poison and choose their food?"
—
Pope.
This may be defined the perception of those chemical
qualities of bodies which affect the senses of taste and
smell. If we admit that the senses do not perceive, but only
convey impressions, we shall be obliged to acknowledge that
this faculty depends upon an organ of the brain.
The analogy is perfect between this organ and the organs
of Tune and Color—the same principles must be applied to
the senses of taste and smell, that are admitted with reference
to hearing and sight. The sense of taste conveys impres-
sions of savour, but it is Individuality that perceives the
existence of the objects that affect us, and the faculty of
70 PHRENOLOGY.
Chemicality perceives the sensible chemical qualities of the
objects; it enables us to judge whether they are sweet or bit-
ter, sour or acrid, just as the organ of Color perceives blue,
green, yellow, or red. I was led to the discovery of this
organ, by repeatedly observing that the power of discrimi-
nating the qualities of food was not in proportion to Alimen-
tiveness: I found many persons with large Alimentiveness,
who, although addicted to intemperance in eating and drink-
ing, were indifferent with regard to the quality of their food.
Others, again, were remarkably particular and nice con-
cerning their food, and could distinguish with astonishing
accuracy the flavor of different wines and dishes, and yet
were not disposed to indulge immoderately in their use. In
these latter persons I found Alimentiveness small, but they
were remarkably developed before Alimentivenes, and were
prominent just under the eyes and near the nose; there was
great comparative length from the ear to the base of the
middle of the nose. These observations naturally suggested
the idea, that the propensity to acquire food, and the per-
ceptive faculty which ascertains the quality of food, depend
on two separate organs.
After making many observations, I ventured to mention
the subject to some of my scientific friends, and in every
instance, they have, after repeating my observations, ad-
mitted their correctness; I therefore consider the organ as
established. I have never yet found it small in those who
were good judges of liquor. 1 have found it rather large
in negroes, while Alimentiveness is medium, and according-
ly they are excellent cooks, and yet are generally tempe-
rate, notwithstanding their degraded condition.
In looking at the brain to ascertain the precise part that
produces the external fullness, I found a distinctly marked
convolution at the internal part of Alimentiveness, and at
the very root of Individuality. (See plate of the base of the
CHEMICALITY. 71
brain.) After much examination and comparison, I am
satisfied that this is the organ. It is large in the brain
of the idiot girl of Cork, (a cast of which has been published)
and the external prominence in the cast of the head of the
same girl, is in perfect agreement; indeed, it is large in
every idiot I have seen, when the idiocy was caused by
deficiency of the reflectives.
It would at first seem improbable that a convolution, situa-
ted so far back from the face, would produce an external
appearance which could enable us to judge of its size; but
the same objection is equally forcible in regard to the organ
of Language, which, although smaller than Chemicality,
yet produces an effect upon the eyes so great, that it led
to the discovery of phrenology. The organ of Chemi-
cality gives prominence to the bones under the eye, upon
the same principle that the organ of Language gives promi-
nence to the eye itself. It is also worthy of remark that the
olfactory nerve is continued into this organ, and not into
Alimentiveness, as is commonly supposed.
I attribute to Chemicality all the perceptive powers that
physiologists have hitherto ascribed to the senses of taste and
smell, and I cannot better illustrate my ideas, and shew the
importance of the faculty than by the following quotation
from Dunglinson's excellent work on physiology. Speak-
ing of the sense of smell, he says:
" It enables the chemist, the mineralogist, and the perfu-
mer to discriminate bodies from each other. We can, like-
wise, form a slight, but only a slight, idea by it, regarding the
distance and direction of bodies, owing to the greater inten-
sity of odours near an odorous body, than at a distance from
it. Under ordinary circumstances the information of this
kind, which we derive by olfaction, is inconsiderable; but
in the blind, and in the savage, who are accustomed to exer-
cise all their external senses more than the civilized indi-
PHRENOLOGY,
vidual, the sphere of activity and accuracy of this sense is
largely augmented. Of this we shall have to speak presently.
"We find it, too, surprisingly developed in some ani-
mals; in which it is considered, by the eloquent Buffon, as
an eye that sees objects not only where they are, but even
where they have been; as an organ of gustation, by which
the animal tastes not only what it can touch and seize ;
but
even what is remote and cannot be attained; and he esteems
it a universal organ of sensation, by which animals are
soonest and most frequently impressed, by which they act
and determine, and recognize whatever is in accordance
with, or in opposition to their nature. The hound, amongst
quadrupeds, affords us a familiar example of the extreme
delicacy of this sense. For hours after the passage of
game, it is capable of detecting the traces; and the blood-
hound can be trained to indicate the human footsteps with
unerring certainty. In the case of the carniverous birds,
we have signal instances of the accuteness of either the sense
of smell or vision.
" Which of these ought to have the credit, it is difficult
to say, and of course, almost impossible to demonstrate, by
direct experiment. Those that have been hitherto instituted,
are more in favor of the latter, than the former. The tur-
key-buzzard of the United States of America, is a bird of
this class; and it is surprising to see how soon they will col-
lect from immense distances after an animal has died in the
forest.
" Humboldt relates, that in Peru, Quito, and in the pro-
vince of Popayan, when they are desirous of taking the gi-
gantic Condor, they kill a cow, or a horse, and in a short
time the odour of the dead animal attracts those birds in great
numbers, and in places where they were scarcely known to
exist. It is asserted, too, that vultures went from Asia to
the field of battle at Pharsalia, a distance of several hundred
CHEMICAL IT Y. 73
miles, attracted thither by the smell of the killed ! Pliny,
however, exceeds almost all his contemporaries in his asser-
tion on this matter. He affirms, that the vulture and the
raven have the sense of smell so delicate, that they can fore-
tell the death of a man three days beforehand, and in order
not to lose their prey, they arrive at the spot the night
before his dissolution !
"As the organ of smell, in all animals that respire air, is
situated at the entrance of the organ of respiration, it is pro-
bable that its seat, in insects, is in the mouths of the air-
tubes. This sense appears to guide them to the proper kinds
of food, and to the execution of most of the few offices they
have to *perform during their transient existence. Occa-
sionally, however, they are deceived by the resemblance
between the odours of substances very different in other
qualities. Some plants, for example, emit a cadaverous
odour, similar to putrid flesh, by which the flesh-fly is
attracted and led to deposite its ova in parts that can fur-
nish no food to the future progeny.
As regards the extent of the organ of smell, man is un-
doubtedly worse situated than most animals, and all these
being in other respects equal, it may be fair to presume that
those in which the olfactory membrane is most extensive,
enjoy the sense of smell most exquisitely. It is curious, how-
ever, that animals which possess the sense of smell in the
highest degree, are those that feed on the most fetid sub-
stances. The dog, for instance, riots in putridity; the birds
of prey, to which reference has been made, have similar
enjoyments. The turkey buzzard of the United States is
so fetid and loathsome, that his captors have generally been
glad to loose him from bondage; and it is affirmed, that if
his ordinary fetor is insufficient to produce his release, he
affords an irresistible argument, by ejecting the putrid con-
tents of his stomach upon his possessor ! One inference
7
14 PH It EN0 LO G Y.
may however be drawn from this penchant of animals with
the most exquisite olfactories for putrid substances:—that
the taste of the epicure for game, kept until it has attained
the requisite fumet, is not so unnatural as it might at first
sight appear.
"Like the other senses, the smell is capable of great
improvement by education. The perfumer arrives, by habit,
at an accurate discrimination of the nicest shades of odours;
and the chemist and the apothecary employ it constantly to
aid them in distinguishing bodies from each other; and in
pointing out the changes that take place in them, under the
influence of heat, light, moisture, &c. In this way it be-
comes a useful chemical test. The effect of education is
likewise shown, by the difference between a dog, kept regu-
larly accustomed to the chase, and one that has not been
trained. For the same reason in man, the sense is more ex-
quisite in the savage than in the civilized state. In the lat-
ter, he can have recourse to a variety of means for distin-
guishing the properties of bodies, and hence he has less oc-
casion for acuteness of smell than in the former; whilst,
again, in the civilized state, numbers destroy the sense, in
order to procure pleasure. The use of snuff is one of the
most common of these destructive influences.
" Of the acuteness of the sense of smell in the savage, we
have an example, on the authority of Humboldt; he affirms,
that the Peruvian Indians, in the middle of the night, can
distinguish the different races by their smell,—whether
European, American Indian, or negro.
" To the same cause must be ascribed the delicacy of
olfaction, generally observed in the blind. The boy Mitch-
ell, who was born blind and deaf, was able to distinguish
the entrance of a stranger into the room by the smell alone.
A gentleman, blind from birth, from some unaccountable
impression of dread or antipathy, could never endure the
C H E M I C A L I T Y. 75
presence of a cat in the apartment. One day, in company,
he suddenly leaped up, got upon an elevated seat, and ex-
claimed that there was a cat in the room, begging them to
remove it. It was in vain that the company, after careful
inspection, assured him that he was under an illusion. He
persisted in his assertion and state of agitation; when, on
opening the door of a small closet in the room, it was found
that a cat had been accidentally shut up in it."
I consider the faculty of Chemicality sufficiently general
to embrace all the impressions, both of smell and taste, and
in this respect it is analogous 'to the faculty of Form, which
perceives/on/is, either through the medium of touch or sight,
" Regarding the uses of the sense of taste," says Dung-
Hnson, " its immediate function, as has been remarked,
is to give the sensation of savours. This function, like the
touch, is instinctive, requires no education, cannot be sup-
plied by any of the other senses, and is accomplished as soon
as the tongue has acquired the necessary degree of deve-
lopement. To this it may be replied, that the very young
infant is not readily affected by savours. In all cases,
however, certain sapid bodies excite their usual impressions:
and in the course of a few months, when the organ becomes
completely developed, the sense acquires a high, and often
an inconvenient degree of acuteness.
" To appreciate a savour accurately, the sapid substance
must remain for some time in the mouth: when rapidly
swallowed the impression is extremely feeble, and almost
null. Of this fact we take advantage, when compelled to
swallow any nauseous substance: whilst we retain a savory
article long in the mouth, in order that we may draw from
it all its sweets. How different, too, is the consent of the
auxiliary organs under these two circumstances. Whilst
a luscious body augments the secretion of the salivary
glands, or causes the mouth " to water,"" as it has been
76 PHRENOLOGY.
called, projecting the saliva, at times, to a distance of two
feet from the mouth, and disposing every part to approach
and mingle with it; a nauseous substance will produce con-
striction of every secretory organ, and this effect will ex-
tend even to the stomach itself, so that it will often reject
the offending article as soon as it reaches the cavity. We
can thus understand how, cczteris paribus, an article, which
is pleasing to the palate, may be more digestible than one
which excites disgust, and vice versa.
u Of the " consent of parts, " exerted by the stomach on
the organ of taste, we have a familiar illustration in the
fact, that whatever may be the gout, with which we com-
mence a meal on a favorite article of diet, we find that
the relish becomes blunted as the stomach becomes filled:
and hence the Romans were in the habit of leaving the table
once or twice during a meal, and, after having unloaded
the stomach, of returning again to the charge—" vomunt ut
edant, edunt ut vomant."
" Among animals we see great diversities in this sense.
Whilst none possess the refined taste of man, there are many
that are capable, by taste or smell, of knowing those plants
which are nutritious, from those that are noxious to them;
and it is very unusual for us to find that an animal has
died from eating those that are unquestionably poisonous 10
it. Yet, as we have remarked, a substance, which is nox-
ious to one, may be eaten with impunity by another: and if
we select animals, and place them in a field containing
plants, all of which are ranked by us as poisons, and which
are poisonous to a majority of those animals, we find that
not only has a selection been made by each animal of that
which is innoxious to it, but that the substance has furnish-
ed nourishment to it, whilst to the other it would have
proved fatal. All this must be dependent upon peculiar
and inappreciable organization.
CHEMICALITY. 77
fi The sense of taste is, more than any other, under the
influence of volition. It is provided with a muscular appara-
tus, by which it can be closed or opened at pleasure; and,
in addition, it ordinarily requires the assistance of the upper
extremity, to convey the sapid substance to the mouth. The
sense can, therefore, be exercised passively or actively ;
and by cultivation, is capable of being largely developed.
The spirit taster to extensive commercial establishments
exhibits the truth of this in a striking manner. He has, of
course, in his vocation, not only to taste numerous samples,
but to appreciate the age, strength, flavour, and other quali-
ties of each: yet the practiced individual is rarely wrong in
his discrimination. With almost all, if not all, the custom
is to take a small quantity of liquor into the mouth, throw
it rapidly around that cavity, then eject it. A portion in
this way comes in contact with every part of the membrane,
and of course, impresses not only the lingual branch, but
the other ramifications of the fifth pair.
" The gourmet of the French, somewhat more elevated in
the scale than our ordinary epicure, prides himself upon his
discrimination of the nicest shades of difference and of ex^
cellence in the materials set before him. Many gourmets
profess to be able to pronounce, by sipping a few drops of
wine, the country whence it comes and its age; and, accor-
ding to Stelluti, can tell by the taste, whether birds, put
upon the table, are domesticated or wild—male or female:
Dr. Kitchener, indeed, asserts, that many epicures are capa-
ble of saying in what precise reach or stretch of the Thames
the salmon on the table has been caught. Such acuteness
of sense is by no means desirable. Doomed to meet in his
progress through life, with such a preponderance of what
demands obtusenes rather than acuteness of feeling, the
epicure must be liable to continual annoyances and discom--
forts, which the less favored can never experience,"'
7*
78 PHRENOLOGY.
Every chemist will perceive the propriety of naming this
organ Chemicality, since the taste and smell of all substan-
ces depends upon their chemical composition; and a change
of taste or smell is always a chenrcal change.
3. LANGUAGE,
5< To him who in the love of nature, holds communion
With her visible forms, she speaks a various language."
—
Bryant.
Language is the perception of the manifestations of mind.
The mental process is concealed from observation, beneath
the silent and mystic convolutions of the brain. Not so the
manifestations of mind—the contractions of the muscles,
producing voice, and the motions of the limbs and features,
these enable animals to indicate their thoughts and feelings,
in such a manner that other animals, possessing the same
organization, readily understand them. Animals do not,
like men, connect by a process of reasoning, the motions
and sounds, or other signs of ideas with the ideas themselves,
in which the signs originate; but they are endowed with an
instinctive perception, which is perfectly adapted to certain
animal motions and sounds, so that, as soon as they are
born, they can understand the signs of the mother inviting
them to feed, or warning them of danger. This view of
Language, is in agreement with its location at the base of
the brain, near the root of Individuality. It must certainly
be possessed by all animals that have any communication
with their own species, or attend to the wants of their young.
Those phrenologists, therefore, who consider Language
peculiar to man, and rank it next in dignity to the reflec-
tive faculties, cannot be well acquainted with the natural
LANGUAGE. 79
history of animals; and they must also have overlooked the
situation of the organ in the brain.
Man uses artificial language, for the same reason that he
uses artificial clothes, tools, and a thousand other things,
which his superior reasoning power has enabled him to in-
vent. Having invented an artificial language, it is the organ
under consideration which enables him to learn it with facili-
ty and remember it with ease. It is plain that it requires more
judgment to understand artificial than natural language,
as the one is directly adapted to our faculty of Language,
and the other is adapted to our faculty of Language com-
bined with the reflecting powers that invented it. This is
the reason why animals, and some idiots cannot learn
artificial language, although they readily understand natural
language; because the latter requires no effort of reflection,
whereas the former originated in human judgment, and can
be understood only by human judgment.
In every well organized mind, this organ will bear a
regular and just proportion to the other organs; but some-
times it is disproportionately small, and then the individual
is concise, brief and slow in writing—reserved and hesita-
ting in speech—frequently forgetting the most familiar
terms. There is a merchant in Massachusetts, who, it is
said, frequently forgets his own name; and is sometimes
obliged to go and look at his sign to refresh his memory.
But if the organ be uncommonly large, there will be an
inexhaustible magazine of words at command, even though
there may be a great scarcity of ideas; such individuals are
apt to repeat their ideas in different words, as the Irishman
did, who posted upon a bridge the following notice: " All
persons, of every description, hereafter, for the future time
to come, may pass over this bridge, free, gratis, for nothing,
without paying a cent."
Some individuals seem to take pleasure and pride in the
80 p H R E N O L O G Y.
use of technical terms, and learned and high-sounding phra-
ses, and like Goldsmith's schoolmaster,
" With words of learned length and thundering sound,
Amaze the gazing rustics ranged around."
Now, although it may be Approbativeness that prompts
them to use such terms, it is large Language which enables
them to do it with ease. It is astonishing with what facility
some writers and speakers, pour forth a flood of indefinite
words, upon a subject which might be expressed in a few
short sentences. On the other hand, we see individuals
whose gigantic intellects, survey at a single glance the whole
circle of the sciences, and yet in a sudden emergency, cannot
find language to express themselves intelligibly upon the
most familiar and ordinary topics. But a distinction must be
understood between a facility of conception and a facility of
expression. This will be explained under Comparison.
Duchess. Thou wouldst not have recognized thy father,
Wouldst thou, my child ?
TkeJda. O yes mother! at the first glance! my father is not altered:
The form that stands before me, falsifies
No feature of the image that hath lived
So long within me.
—
Coleridge.
This is the perception of the outline or configuration of
the objects which are noticed by Individuality. The produc-
tions of natural organization are always regular and uni-
form, and this organ is so adapted to the forms which nature
produces, that it instinctively prefers them to those objects
which are, like the earth before creation, " without form;7 '
that is, without systematic and useful form. The bee, the
FORM. 81
beaver, and birds, manifest this faculty in a wonderful man-
ner. How perfect the forms of the honey-comb, the web of
the spider, and the hut of the beaver ! This cannot, in
them, be attributed to Perfectiveness, or Causality; they have
not reasoned to the logical conclusion, that such forms are
best calculated to serve their purposes; nor have they such a
propensity to improve, that they have been able to arrive,
by experience, to such perfection; on the contrary, they
inherit with their organization, the perception of form, in-
stinctively adapted to the most perfect and beautiful regu-
larity; so that as soon as they are born, they manifest a
preference for those forms which are best suited to their
structures.
Spurzheim thinks that ideas of roughness and smoothness
depend on Form. It is principally by means of Form that
animals are capable of distinguishing one object from ano-
ther. A large developement of this organ also accounts for
the extraordinary power which some persons possess, of re-
membering faces; Cuvier, the celebrated Naturalist, could re-
member for years, the forms of animals which he had seen,
and could draw them from memory with great accuracy.
The talent for drawing is almost entirely dependent on this
organ. When Language and Form are not in proportion to
each other, persons can remember the names and not the
faces, or vice versa, of their acquaintances. I knew a gen-
tleman in Auburn, N. Y., who called into a store, to see an
acquaintance, but not finding him in, enquired of the clerk
—
" Is Mr.—Mr.—Mr.—r—r
—you know who I mean,—is
he in
1
?" "O yes," said the clerk, "I know who you mean,
it is Mr. —Mr —Mr—r—r—No ! he is not in,"—and they
parted in mutual embarrassment. Dr. Gall relates of himself,
that he could not recollect a person who dined by his side, if
in the afternoon he met him in the street. Dr. D. of Ann
Arbour, Mich., assured me, that it was to him a frequent
82 PHRENOLOGY.
source of embarrassment, that persons would come up to
him, and claim to be his intimate acquaintances, and he was
ashamed to say, he did not know that he had ever seen them
before.
Authors who have it large, are prone to describe the con-
figuration of the objects which they introduce, and in their
works of fiction,
"Imagination bodies forth the forms of things unknown,"
5. SIZE, OR EXTENSION.
*' A boundless sea forevermore,.
Without a bottom or a shore."
—
Watts.
This is the faculty which perceives the extension, dis-
tance, space, or magnitude of bodies which are recognized
by Individuality.
When applied to a plurality of objects, at different distan-
ces, at the same time, it is called perspective. Combined
with Form, it gives the talent for perspective drawing, and
a fondness for landscapes, in preference to other kinds of
drawing. The same remarks which were made concerning
the adaptation of the forms of bodies to the perceptive organ
of Form, will apply with equal truth to their size: throughout
all nature, the magnitude of bodies is exactly suited to their
condition, and the purposes that they are to subserve. There
is a proportion between a mountain-top and its base, and a
regular gradation of size between the two extremes. Mine-
rals, vegetables, and animals are as regular in size as in
form; and the organ of Size is adapted to perceive and delight
in this beautiful harmony which is inherent in all the pro-
ductions of nature,
SIZE, OR EXTENSION. 83
Our language abounds in words expressive of size and
distance, and those authors who have it very large, make
a frequent use of them.
.
Language, Form and Size, are large in the bust of Milton,
while Individuality is only medium, and accordingly he in-
troduces few natural objects; his
" Rapt fancy builds an empire of its own."
but having introduced an object, he abounds with adjectives
of form and size, with which to describe it; thus in de-
scribing Sin and Death
—
The one seemed woman to the waist, and fair,
But ended foul in many a scaly fold,
Voluminous and vast. * * * *
* * * * The other shape,
If shape it might be called—that shape had none
Distinguishable in member, joint, or limb,
Or substance might be called that shadow seemed,
For each seemed either:
—
Again in describing Satan, nothing can surpass the effect
with which he uses adjectives of size and distance:
Nine times the space that measures day and night
To mortal men, he with his horrid crew
Lay vanquished, rolling in the fiery gulf.
At once, as far as angels ken, he views
The dismal situation, waste and wild.
As far removed from God and light of heaven,
As from the centre thrice to the utmost pole.
With head uplift above the wave, and eyes
That sparkling blazed, his other parts beside
Prone on the flood, extending long and large,
Lay floating many a rood, in bulk as huge,
* * * * As that sea beast Leviathan,
Which God, of all his works, created hugest
That swim the ocean stream.
84 PHRENOLOGY.
So stretched out huge in length the arch-fiend lay,
********
Forthwith upright he rears from off the pool
His mighty stature.
* * * His ponderous shield,
Ethereal temper, massy, large, and round,
Behind him cast; the broad circumference
Hung on his shoulders like the moon.
*********
His spear, to equal which, the tallest pine
Hewn on Norwegian hills to be the mast
Of some great admiral, were but a wand
He walked with, to support uneasy steps
Over the burning marl. * * * *
Collecting all his might, dilated stood,
Like Teneriffe or Atlas, unremoved;
His stature reached the sky, and on his crest
Sat horror plumed.
5. WEIGHT.
u And earth, self-balanced, on her centre hung."
—
Milton.
The perception of weight, density, gravitation, attraction,
momentum, force or equilibrium. Gravitation is one of the
most important laws of nature, and this faculty is adapted to
perceive its effects. When we touch any substance, Indivi-
duality perceives its existence; but when we change its po-
sition by muscular force, we acquire ideas of its solidity
and weight.
There is an intimate relation between the size of bodies
and their weight, since the weight of bodies, all other things
being equal, is in exact proportion to their size. In the solar
system, the planets manifest a degree of power proportion-
ate to their magnitude; so also on the surface of the earth,
WEIGHT. 85
the weight of bodies is equal to their density and size. The
forms of things are also related to their weight—thus the
heavenly bodies, mountains, vegetables, and animals, arc
formed with reference to the laws of gravitation; and in arti-
ficial structures, if the artist departs from this principle he
shocks the common sense of mankind. Even in dress, we
unconsciously conform to this perception, and therefore-
large sleeves, or very broad crowned hats, cannot long be
popular.
Animals that are very low in the scale, manifest this fac-
ulty with as much skill as the most profound philosopher:
The caterpillar crawls to the end of a limb, and extends
itself as far as it can reach, and if it finds nothing to rest
upon, returns the way it came, but never loses its balance.
" The nymphs of watermoths, commonly called codbait,
cover themselves with pieces of wood, or gravel. It is ne-
cessary that they should keep in eqilibrium with the water,
and, when they are too light they add to themselves a piece of
gravel, and when too heavy, a piece of wood/' 7
Fishes are
furnished with a peculiar pneumatic apparatus, that enables
them to sustain themselves in the water in opposition to
the gravitation of their bodies; and birds have their bones
made light and thin, and so contrived that their breath,
instead of being confined to a pair of lungs, is extended
into the hollow of their bones, and into different parts of the
body, in order to render them light and buoyant. Thus
we see that animals have perceptions of the weight of bodies,
and act in harmony with the laws of gravitation according
to their size and form.
1 have uniformly found this large on those who were good
judges of the mechanical forces, and in artists whose
success depends upon their faculty of bringing force to
bear with skill, precision and delicacy; such as smiths,
machinists, musical performers, horsemen, engineers, rope-
8
86 PHRENOLOGY.
dancers, &c. I found it small on the head of a young lady
in the Troy Female Seminary, who excelled in vocal music
but was an indifferent performer on the piano and harp.
1 found it large, and Caution moderate, on a young lady
in Buffalo, who walked over a frightful precipice on a nar-
row plank where even the men dared not follow her.
It was large in Sir Isaac Newton, and it is said that the
falling of an apple attracting his attention, commenced in
his mind the train of thought which resulted in developing
the true theory of gravitation; but had it been small in his
head, would the falling of the apple have excited in his mind
such a train of thought %
It was very large in the head of Watt, the celebrated engi-
neer; so also was Size; and he not only improved the steam
engine, but he also invented a curious machine for perspec-
tive drawing. I found it very large in a stranger whom
I examined in the presence of my class in Troy, N. Y., and
being combined with large reflectives, I ventured to remark
that if he were a mechanic, he would be likely to suggest
improvements in the power of machinery, and I was after-
wards informed that the individual was the inventor of the
rotary engine —William Avery, of Syracuse.
The organ was large in Homer, (if we may depend upon
the authenticity of the bust said to be his;) he certainly
manifests it more frequently, and expresses it more beauti-
fully than any other poet. He varies in every possible
manner the mode of expressing the force with which his
heroes hurled their weapons at each other.
Beattie also has this large, and his poem of the Minstrel,
commences :
Ah, who can tell how hard it is to climb
The steep where fame's proud temple
Shines afar.
COLOR. 87
Again he describes the wandering minstrel,
While from his bending shoulders decent hung,
His harp, the sole companion of his way,
Which to the whistling wind responsive rung.
And oft the craggy cliff he loved to climb,
When all in mist the world below was lost,
And hear the voice of mirth and song rebound,
Flocks, herds, and waterfalls along the hoar profound.
And hark! the river, bursting every mound,
Down the vale thunders; and with wasteful sway,
Uproots the groves, and rolls the shattered rocks away.
COLOR.
'Tis sweet in the green spring
To gaze upon the wakening fields around;
Birds in the thicket sing
—
Winds whisper, waters prattle from the ground,
A thousand odours rise,
Breathed up from blossoms of a thousand dies.
—
Bryant.
The seven primary colors, in their different degrees of bril-
liancy, and their innumerable combinations, producing an
endless variety of hues, tints and shades, constitute an in-
teresting department among the properties of matter. Were
it not for this, what a disagreeable sameness would the ap-
pearance of nature present ! Those who have this organ
large, are very fond of variegated scenery—of flowers—of
paintings and, of party-colored decorations. It is larger in
women than men, and accordingly they universally wear a
greater diversity of colors, and are more fond of flowers
than men. Botany is their favorite science, in which they
make greater proficiency than in any other natural science.
This organ, when large, gives an arched appearance to
8S PHRENOLOGY.
the brow, and any one who will take the trouble to 1 >ok
at a collection of portraits of celebrated painters, will at
once acknowledge this common peculiarity.
Mr. French, of Springfield, Mass., cannot in the night,
distinguish one color from another, yet his vision is perfect,
and no mechanic in the IT. S. Armory, can sooner perceive
any inequality upon the surface of machinery. In this
gentleman, there is an uncommon depression in the place
of the organ of Color, but Weight and Size are very large.
It must be remembered that coloring is but one of the ele-
ments of the talent for painting. It is large in Titian, Ru-
bens, and all those painters who have excelled as colorists.
8. ORDER.
Order is heaven's first law.
—
Pope.
The operations and productions of nature, being the re-
sult of universal and general laws, uniformity and order is
the necessary consequence. Thus, one general law opera-
ting upon vegetable and animal substances, produces regu-
larity of arrangement among their fibres. The general law
of attraction, explains the regularity with which minerals
chrystalize. One general cause disturbing the ocean, pro-
duces regularity among the waves; but if several causes
operate at once, the order is destroyed. Order may there-
fore be defined to be, that arrangement among material
bodies, which is produced by the operation of a general
cause.
It is the province of this faculty to perceive the order
that reigns throughout the universe, but it does not perceive
the general causes that produce it; thus, when a powerful
magnet passes near a handful of iron filings, an unseen
ORDER. 89
power causes the particles to arrange themselves in the most
perfect order; now it is this faculty that perceives the
regularity, and is gratified with it, but it is Causality that
perceives magnetism to be the cause of the arrangement.
Order is. intimately related to all the preceding organs of
Form, Size, Weight and Color, since it is itself constituted
of the uniform operations of these four principles; thus, when
objects, as the waves, or fibres, or chrystals, are in order,
it is because they are of the same form, size, distance, den-
sity or color.
The mechanical animals manifest Order in a most re-
markable manner; who has not admired the regularity
with which the spider arranges the thread of his web, the
bee the cells of his honeycomb, or the bird the materials
of her nest ?
We are now prepared to understand the nature and opera-
tion of the faculty of Order in the human mind. Those who
have the organ very large, are apt, unconsciously, to ar-
range in order, whatever material objects occupy theif at-
tention. A retail merchant, for instance, has his attention
(his Individuality,) continually occupied with the numerous
articles that constitute his stock; and, if he has order very
large, he will instinctively, and unconsciously arrange, and
keep them in order; yet he may neglect his garden, or his
library, because his attention is directed to another subject,
of all-absorbing interest; as soon, however, as his mind is
relieved from business, and he has leisure to attend to his
garden, or his library, he will manifest the same degree of
order there, that he previously did in his store. This will
explain the apparent anomaly which some persons present,
who are remarkably orderly in some things, and neglectful
in others. I know some students, who are very neat and
orderly in regard to their papers and books, but careless of
their personal appearance; while others are careless of every
8*
90 PHREN"OLOGY
thing but their dress; this is all easily explained by the rela-
tive developement of Intellect and Approbativeness, and the
circumstances which have directed their attention to diffe-
rent subjects.
Good clerks, and accomptants, have this large; and it is
of the greatest importance to merchants, especially if they
have it small themselves, to select assistants who have it
large. It is also large in females, and they are proverbial
for their habits of putting things " to rights."
Order must not be confounded with system, which is the
result of Reflection. I know many individuals who are
very systematic—they plan well, but they need an assis-
tant continually at their elbows, to execute their plans in an
orderly manner. I know others, who are remarkable for
order, but are totally incapable of conceiving a complicated
and systematic plan.
9. NUMBER.
Hadad. What knovvest thou of the stars?
Tamar. I know them numberless, resplendent, set
As symbols of the countless, countless years
That make eternity.
—
Hillhouse.
The multiplicity of objects that are of the same apparent
form, size, weight, colour, and order, would involve the
mind in the greatest perplexity, did we not possess this fac-
ulty of counting, or perceiving plurality. Objects that dif-
fer from each other in regard to any of the five qualities
which 1 have already described, can be distinguished from
each other by appearances; but objects which are alike in
NUMBER. 91
their appearance, cannot be distinguished from each other
without the use of numbers; thus, if we see twenty posts,
at such a distance that they all appear alike, we can desig-
nate one from another only by numbers.
1 would here respectfully point out an error into which
some good phrenologists have fallen, in supposing that
Order should be preceded by Number, in the arrange-
ment of these organs. Mr. Combe, 397 page says:
—
" Order supposes a plurality of objects, but one may have
ideas about a number of things, and their qualities, without
considering them in any order whatever." And he accor-
dingly ranks Number before Order. Spurzheim also
says: "The idea of order supposes plurality, but number
may exist without order.
1
'
Now I acknowledge that there
cannot be order without number; but it does not follow that
we must perceive number before we perceive order.
Let me ask what can there be without number; do not
the five senses, and Individuality—does not the organ of
Color, adapted as it is to the seven primary colors, suppose
the existence of plurality 1 does not our very existence,
"suppose a plurality of objects," previously existing %
But Mr. Combe says: " We may have ideas about a num-
ber of things without considering them in any order what-
ever." I reply, so may the animals, that are destitute of
both Order and Number; but all animals do not have ideas
of several things of the same appearance at once; they cer-
tainly have ideas of a number of things, but not as numbers.
I once knew an idiot, who, although he could not count ten,
yet, out of his father's flock of fifty sheep, if one was mis-
sing he was always the first to discover it; for he knew
every one of them by some peculiar mark; and he had
names for them, expressive of their peculiarities, such as
crook-horn, smut-face, &c; but he could not distinguish the
difference between a lot of thirteen eggs and another lot of
92 PHRENOLOGY.
a dozen. Again I reply, we may also have ideas about the
order of things, without having any idea of their number.
This same idiot, who could not count ten, was yet ex-
tremely fond of order. Dr. Spurzheim mentions that the
Sauvage de I'Avignon at Paris, though an idiot in a very
high degree, cannot bear to see a chair, or any other ob-
ject, out of its place. He also saw, in Edinburgh, a girl
who, in many respects, was idiotic, but in whom the love of
order was very active. She avoided her brother's apart-
ment, in consequence of the confusion that prevailed in it.
Again, the lower animals manifest order in the most per-
fect and astonishing manner, but they manifest number very
imperfectly. Spurzheim says: " I am not certain whether
this faculty (Number,) exists in animals." Combe also
remarks: " It seems difficult to determine whether the
faculty exists in the lower animals or not/"' This fact alone
would seem to decide the question of precedence in favor of
Order. Another important fact is, that in ordinary transac-
tions we always use order before number.* When we wish
to count a number of articles, we arrange them in some
order, that we may perform the operation with greater faci-
lity; for if the articles are in confusion, we find it next to
impossible to count them. These two organs are of the
greatest importance to merchants. Those who have the
organ of Number large, can compute, without using the
slate, with a rapidity and accuracy which to others is in-
comprehensible. This faculty does not give the ability to
solve difficult arithmetical problems, it only gives the power
to perform with rapidity and accuracy any operation in
addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division; but it must
be combined with higher powers, to produce skill in the
higher and more difficult branches of mathematics. Zerah.
*I am indebted to a lady for this suggestion.
DIRECTION. 93
Colburn, the youth who astonished the world with this tal-
ent, was but an ordinary mathematician; and accordingly
his organ of Number was very large, but Causality mode-
rate. Both Order and Number are large in the bust of
Washington, and his whole life was in harmony with this
fact. In the papers in his own hand writing which he has
left behind, though very voluminous, every I is dotted, every
T crossed, and scarce a blot to be found upon them. His
accounts were kept in the most regular manner, and per-
fectly correct.
This organ is large in the bust of Alexander Hamilton,
and in La Grange, the greatest of French mathematicians.
MIDDLE RANGE OF PERCEPT1VES.
10. DIRECTION, OR LOCALITY.
There is a power whose care
Teaches thy way along that pathless coast,
—
The desert and illimitable air-
Lone wandering but not lost.
—
Bryant to a Waterfowl.
This may, I think, be defined the perception of the direc-
tion of objects, or the perception of the points of the com-
pass. Dr. Gall calls it "the memory of ^places," Dr.
Spurzheim states that " the special faculty of this organ,
remains to be determined. It seems to me," says he, "that
it is the faculty of Locality in general. As soon as we
have conceived the existence of an object, and its qnalities,
it must necessarily occupy a place, and this is the faculty
that conceives the places occupied by the objects that sur-
round us." Sir George S. Mackenzie considers the primary
faculty to be that of perceiving relative positions."
It is certain that the part is largely developed in the heads
94 PHRENOLOGY.
of all celebrated travellers, geographers, geometricians, &c.
but I neither agree with Gall, "that it alone gives the memo-
ry of places/7
nor with Spurzheim, that it is "the faculty of
locality in general, 7
'
nor yet with Sir G. S. Mackenzie, that
it " perceives relative positions." I conceive it to be sim-
ply the perception of direction. Place, or locality is a com-
plex perception. To perceive a place, requires the action
of Individuality, Form and Size, besides the faculty under
consideration. When we know the form, and size, and
distance, and color of a thing, we may yet be totally igno-
rant of its place; but now if we are informed of its direction,
our idea of its place is complete. Again, we may have a
correct idea of the direction of an object, and know nothing
of its form, or size, or distance, or color, and we may also
be ignorant of its adjacent parts; we cannot then be said to
know its place. It will now be perceived that the idea of
place is complicated, while the idea of direction is simple.
The same reasoning is opposed to its being called "the
perception of relative positions," as that is a still more com-
plicated idea, since it implies a knowledge of several places
or positions.
Migratory animals manifest this faculty in a much greater
degree than man. Swallows, pidgeons, geese, and many
other birds of passage, possess a power of this kind which
has always been a subject of wonder. The periodical mi-
gration of animals, was by Dr. Gall, accounted for, by sup-
posing a periodical and involuntary excitement of this organ.
But it seems to me more reasonable that the propensity to
migrate depends upon a peculiar mode of action of Inhabi-
tiveness. In explaining the organs, it must be continually
borne in mind, that actions are produced only by the Pro-
pensities; and that the Intellectual organs merely perceive
objects, and their qualities and relations. The Propensities
urge on the actions, and the Intellectuals direct the actions to
EVENTUALITY. 95
proper objects, and find out ways and means to gratify the
Propensities.
When this organ is large in an author, combined with
Individuality and Size, he describes locations with great
minuteness and truth. James Fennimore Cooper is endow-
ed with this combination, and all his works are illustrations
of its manifestation. In his descriptions of nautical and of
Indian character, he is without a successful rival. His Pilot
is an admirable illustration of this faculty. He is repre-
sented as steering the vessel among rocks and shoals, through
a thousand dangers that seem each instant to increase in
magnitude; but with a firm and decided voice, and a calm
spirit, he gives each necessary order; and with his own
master hand guides the noble ship in safety.
11. EVENTUALITY, OR ACTION.
Sit at the feet of history—through the night
Of years the steps of virtue she shall trace,
And shew the earlier ages.
—
Bryant.
This faculty perceives action, motion or change. It is
the source of verbs, as Individuality is the source of nouns.
It is the foundation of the talent for relating events, narra-
tives, anecdotes and histories. It is found large in all good
historians. It is large in children, and accounts for their
love of stories.
It is large in those who excel in chemistry, since they
must not only'notice substances, and describe chemical quali-
ties, but also operations must be conceived, and processes
that take place during the chemical combinations, must be
understood, before certain deductions can be drawn, or suc-
cessful experiments conducted. It is the principal element
96 PHRENOLOGY.
in the talent for physiology, since that science explains the
action, or history of organs. It is also an assistant to the
machinist, who must not only have a correct idea of the
structure of machines, but also of their action or operation.
It is also essential to the physician, to enable him to judge
of the morbid action of the constitution, and also of the
operation of the drugs which he employs. It also calls to
his mind the history of analogous cases, in all their minute
details, thus enabling him to profit by experience. It indu-
ces him further, to enquire into the previous history of the
patient, and thereby to judge more correctly of the probable
causes of his present state, and of the best remedy. The
public speaker is greatly dependent on this faculty, to fur-
nish facts, and the history of the transactions to which he
alludes.
It is large in historical painters, and those who can suc-
cessfully represent objects in action; Hogarth is a good
instance of this; he has the organ large, and all his works
represent action most admirably. The painter who has it
small, fails to give expression to his portraits, and animation
to his scenes. I lately detected a painter in a falsehood, in
the following singular way. He was painting a family
piece in which three children were represented tossing a
child in their arms in a sportive manner; the company, con-
sisting of several ladies and gentlemen, were admiring the
design, and he was taking great credit to himself for his suc-
cess. Observing that Eventuality was very small in his
head, I almost unconsciously exclaimed, you did not design
that piece! He immediately advanced to me, and in a whis-
per, requested me to say no more about it until the company
were gone: he then acknowledged that he did not design it,
but took it from a book, which he supposed I had seen.
It is generally small in criminals, and those who do not
learn from experience. Some one has remarked, that " his-
T 1 M E. 97
tovy is Philosophy teaching wisdom by example." The
organ is large in Hume, Gibbon, the Empress Catharine
of Russia; and very small in Zeno, Moore, &c.
Gall considered it the organ of educability, because those
who had it large were easier educated. He also thought,
with Camper and Lavater, that animals are tameable in
proportion to the fullness of this part. It is certain that
tame animals are fuller in the centre of the forehead, than
wild ones of the same genus. The domestic cat and the wild
cat differ in this region, and the hyena is greatly depressed
in the same part.
12. TIME.
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow,
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day,
To the last syllable of recorded time. —Shakespeare.
This organ is situated between Eventuality and Tune,
and is intimately related to them both. It is the source of
participles, and the tenses of verbs in grammar; combined
with Number, it is the foundation of the talent for chronolo-
gy; time in music, dancing, and marching are also depen-
dent upon it; and those who, like Moore, write melodies
that are easily adapted to music, must have it well developed.
Memory relates to past time, and each organ of Intellect
has a memory of its own; but if this organ.be small, although
events may be fresh in the mind, they cannot be called up
in the succession and order of time in which they passed.
Dr. A. D. Smith, one of the Justices of Cleveland, Ohio,
and formerly a lecturer on phrenology, is the most remarka-
ble instance that I have ever seen in illustration of this or-
98 PHRENOLOGY.
gan. When I first met him, he requested me to see if I
could discover any thing peculiar in his forehead; at the
same time stating that in one particular he was singular.
After examining attentively, I remarked that the organ of
time was depressed, but tune was large; he then stated that
he was exceedingly fond of tune, and had a quick percep-
tion of discord, but could not keep time; and that he pos-
sessed this peculiarity in a greater degree than any other
person whom he had ever seen.
Animals evidently have perceptions of the lapse of time
—
they observe the time of feeding, sleeping, migrating, buil-
ding their nests, and acquiring food for winter; birds, in
singing, keep the most perfect time; and horses and dogs
have been taught to dance. Many of the operations of
nature take place in regular and measured time; even the
operations of the mind are limited in regard to time, by the
operations of the body. The more active the temperament
of the individual, the less time he takes to perform a mental
operation. Darwin states truly, that "the time taken to
perform an idea, is much the same as the time taken to per-
form a muscular action;" and any one who will try the ex-
periment, will find that he cannot think, in a reasonable
and consistent manner, faster than he can speak his
thoughts. I have lately made some experiments and obser-
vations, which result in the conclusion, that the accent of
speech and music is related, in point of time, to the pulsation
of the heart; and the pauses to the movement of the lungs.
It is therefore probable, that the action of the brain is syn-
chronous (equal in time) with the action of the heart and
the organs of speech.
TUNE. 99
13. TUNE,
{l
The breeze warbles, and the mute still air
is music slumbering on her instrument."
—
Coleridge.
This is the perception of the pitch of sound, and the fun-
damental element of music. Music, like painting and poe-
try, is a complicated and compound subject, and its philoso-
phy is not so obvious as is commonly supposed. The sci-
entific and natural performance of music, involves almost
every organ in the bsain. It is common for phrenologists
to attempt to judge of the amount of musical talent, by refe-
rence to the organ of Tune alone; but if my definition of
the faculty is correct, they commit an error analogous to
that of Dr. Gall, who, when he first discovered the organ of
Color, described it as the organ of the talent for painting.
Now, although the perception of color is simple, and
natural, the art of painting is very difficult, and calls into
action all the powers of the mind. Without Tune, no person
can be a musician; but with it very large, he may yet be
incapable of becoming a performer; for Tune is merely the
perception of the pitch of sounds—it enables us to judge of
their concord or discord—it is related to the seven primary
sounds of the musical scale, just as the organ of Color
is related to the seven primary colors of the prismatic spec-
trum.
In music, besides Tune and Time, the organ of Weight
is necessary to judge of the force of sound, particularly in
instrumental music—Language and Imitativeness are neces-
sary, to give just expression—Eventuality to perceive the
different kinds of action represented by the music—and, if
any of the propensities are expressed, it will be also neces-
sary that the corresponding organs be large in the head of
100 PHRENOLOGY.
the performer, in order to enable him to do justice to that
kind of expression
—
Each passion of the soul has a music of its own,
That thrills in happy unison with its congenial tone.
Destructiveness is roused by rough, and Combativeness
by loud and sudden sounds; while Adhesiveness, Parentive-
ness and Kindness are pleased with soft, gentle and sweet
tones. It is, consequently, not difficult to judge by examina-
tion what kind of music is most pleasing to any particular
form of head; and it is obvious, that although Tune may be
small, yet music will please if it expresses, in a natural man-
ner the predominant emotions.
It is undoubtedly upon this principle, that music affects
some animals, as the horse and the elephant, that upon mili-
tary parade, seem to partake of the feelings of their master.
We can now understand the meaning of Shakespeare's
celebrated passage
—
The man that has no music in himself,
Nor is not moved by concord of sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils;
The motions of his spirit are dull as night,
And his affections dark as Erebus:
Let no such man be trusted.
The poet certainly did not mean to be understood as cen-
suring those who cannot judge with accuracy of musical
performances, but he who is not moved by concord of sweet
sounds, his social affections are dark as Erebus, and his
lower Ipseals predominate.
Beattie expresses the same idea, when describing
11
A heart that music cannot melt,"
and in whom Alimentiveness, Secretive ness, and Acqui-
sitiveness predominate; he says,
" He need not woo the Muse; he is her scorn,
The sophist's rope of cob-web he shall twine,
Mope o'er the schoolman's peevish page; or mourn
And delve for life in Mammon's dirty mine;
Sneak with the scoundrel fox, or grunt with glutton swine."
COMPARISON. 101
Those who have a military disposition, will be fond of
martial music; and those who have a gentle, and effemi-
nate organization, will be pleased with gentle and soothing
tones, and they will be likely to say with Scott
—
1 hate the drum's discordant sound,
Parading round and round and round;
To me it talks of ravaged plains,
And burning towns, and ruined swains,
And mangled limbs, and dying groans,
And widow's tears, and orphan's moans,
And all that misery's hand bestows,
To fill the catalogue of human woes.
UPPER RANGE, OR REFLECT1VES.
14. COMPARISON.
"Look here on this picture, and on this."
—
Shakespeare.
Almost every object or subject which can occupy the
mind, belongs to a class to which it bears more or less ana-
logy; and it is the function of this faculty to compare all
our perceptions together, and perceive their resemblances
and differences, and the classification to which they belong.
It harmonizes all our perceptions, and perceives the agree-
ment among them. If a new object is presented to us,
Comparison immediately compares all that we know con-
cerning it, to every thing else within our recollection, in
order to know to what class it belongs; for instance, if a
new phrenological organ is discovered in the brain, this
faculty would compare it with the organs already known,
and discover whether it belongs to the Ipseal, Social, or
Intellectual Class.
9*
102 PHRENOLOGY.
If all the perceptives below Comparison be large, and
this organ is also large, the individual will possess great
power of discrimination; will be capable of making nice
distinctions, or conceiving striking contrasts. When he is
explaining any difficult subject, he will illustrate it by com-
parison; he will discover analogies between things which
to the common observer, appear totally dissimilar; his lan-
guage will abound with figures of speech, brought together
from all quarters of the explored universe; from the heathen
mythology, the history of individuals, of nations, of ani-
mals, and vegetables—science, literature and the arts—every
thing under the sun, will- be pressed into his service to
adorn, amplify, or illustrate his productions.
The talent of public speaking is very dependent upon this
faculty; after a plain and simple statement of the case has
been made, many speakers find a great difficulty in dwel-
ling longer upon the subject; even though Language may
be large, they find it difficult to continue their remarks,
from a want of interesting matter which is related to the
question; let now a speaker with large Comparison rise, and
he immediately begins to present the subject in a new light,
and to refer to analogous cases; or if he knows no such cases,
he supposes some to suit his purpose; and if he is artful, he
will suppose cases in which the audience feel a deep inte-
rest, thus enlisting their feelings warmly upon a subject
which before was a matter of indifference to them.
Thus Mitford's Rienzi, after having related to his country-
men the death of his innocent and lovely brother, murdered
by the tyrants, he suddenly turns and applies the case to
themselves, and concludes by contrasting their present
condition with their former glory:
Have ye brave sons? look in the next fierce brawl
To see them die. Have ye fair daughters? Look
To see them live, torn from your arms, distained,
CAUSALITY. 103
Dishonored; and, if ye dare call for justice,
Be answered by the lash. Yet this is Rome,
That sat on her seven hills, and from her throne
Of beauty, ruled the world.
15. CAUSALITY.
" Observe how system into system runs."
—
Pope.
Causality is the perception of dependence and connection.
Every thing in existence is more or less intimately related
to every other thing; but when the relation of one thing to
another is such that it always must precede it, it is said to be
its cause; and that which is thus preceded is called an effect;
this effect may in its turn become a cause, and produce ano-
ther effect, and so on to infinity, constituting a chain of
causes and effects, which is called a concatenation. That
cause which immediately precedes an effect, is called the
immediate cause, and all the other links in the chain of
causation are remote causes. So also those effects which
are immediately followed by a cause, are called immediate
effects, and all others are remote effects; now it is the func-
tion of the faculty of Causality to perceive the relation
among phenomena which constitutes cause and effect.
It perceives the dependence of one thing upon another, of
one event upon another, or of one phenomena of any kind
upon some other. Thus, it perceives the dependence of the
rivers upon their tributary streams—the dependence of the
streams upon the springs—of the springs upon the rains
—
of the rains upon the clouds—of the clouds upon evapora-
tion—of evaporation upon heat—of heat upon the sun, and
the dependence of all these phenomena upon the laws of
gravitation.
104 PHRENOLOGY.
The organ of Time is just under Causality, and enables
it to perceive the dependence of events upon time; thus the
falling of the rain, must happen prior to the overflowing of
the spring, and the swelling of the streams afterwards. The
son cannot be as old as his father; the cause must come
before the effect.
The historian Gibbon, has this combination of Eventuality,
Time, and Causality; and his admirable history of the decline
and fall of the Roman empire, is not merely a succession of
stories, but a philosophical account of the dependence of one
remarkable event, upon a succession of previous events,
which took place in a regular order of time; and although
some of them were trivial in themselves, they assume great
importance, on account of their being the remote causes
of an event which is in the highest degree astonishing.
Causality may perceive the dependence of one thing upon
another, without regard to time. It perceives the depen-
dence of known things and facts upon those that are un-
known—thus, Columbus perceived the dependence of one
side of the earth which was known, upon the other, which
was unknown. Cuvier perceived the dependence of the forms
of animal's bones, upon their dispositions and habits; and
thus was enabled to ascertain the nature of the unknown
animal by inspecting the fossil remains of a single bone.
—
Gall discovered the dependence of certain powers of mind
upon certain portions of the brain.
Causality perceives that many strange phenomena which
superstitious minds have ascribed to supernatural powers,
depend upon natural causes.
In mathematics, a certain number or quantity being
known, this faculty perceives the necessary existence of
other numbers or quantities. Combined with Comparison
and Observation, it invents and originates improvements in
the arts. We observe the operations of nature, and discover
CAUSALITY. 105
the causes upon which they depend—we observe the opera-
tions of art, and compare them with those of nature, and
by adopting the natural process we improve the effect.
Sir H. Davy's safety lamp, originated in his observing
that a metalic net prevented the passage of flame by cooling
it, while it allowed the passage of light; observing also, that
in coal mines fatal explosions were frequently caused by
the flame of the lamps communicating with the gas, his Com-
parison perceived the analogy between the two cases, and
his Causality enabled him to remove the cause of the ex-
plosion, while he retained the cause of light, by constructing
a lamp surrounded with fine metalic net work.
All useful inventions must originate in observation; but
it is necessary to compare the facts which have been obser-
ved, and also perceive their connection and dependences.
The knowledge of facts alone, would not distinguish man
from other animals; and on the other hand, however pro-
found the reflections, they are useless unless based upon
correct observations. I have seen many visionary charac-
ters who were continually dreaming of improvements, and
who really seemed to manifest much originality of mind,
but yet could never bring any of their plans into successful
operation; the reason is, they were deficient in that practi-
cal talent which depends on the lower range of perceptives;
had these organs been large, they would have been able to
perceive the practical facts necessary to the execution of
their plans; or else to discover some facts which rendered
them impracticable. The dependence of the upper organs
upon the lower, and the great importance of attending to the
proportions which the different parts of the forehead bear to
each other, cannot be too much insisted on; but it needs no
further explanation in this place.
It is common for those who have but a moderate degree
of Causality, to think that there must be some mistake in
106 PHRENOLOGY.
their case; because, they will tell you, they are habitually
inquiring into the causes of every thing. —I reply, so do
children, so do all except idiots; but it does not follow that
Causality must be large. The difference between a large
Causality and a small one, is, that the latter is satisfied with
knowing immediate causes, but the former traces out remote
causes—the large organ delights in tracing a long chain of
causes and effects, and perceiving the connection and depen-
dence of a great number of links, —the small organ only de-
lights in tracing a few links, and can easily comprehend their
connection and dependence; but they are satisfied with this,
and do not voluntarily and habitually proceed further. If
circumstances compel them to urge their Causality to its
utmost, it soon becomes an irksome task; and if thrown
into competition with a large Causality, they are easily
overpowered.
We sometimes see the apparent anomaly of a person with
moderate Causality, excelling in argument others with the
organ large; but the explanation will be found in the fact
that although Causality was inferior, some other advantages
more than compensated, and thus rendered them superior.
These principles will apply to all the other Intellectuals with
equal force; for instance, if Number is small, the individual
can count well enough for ordinary purposes, but he can-
not compete with another who has the organ very large.
And the same is true of the sense of sight; those who are
short sighted, can see well enough within a limited sphere,
but cannot compare with those whose vision is perfect.
Causality is large in Newton, Franklin, Clinton, Bacon,
Socrates, Webster, Van Buren, Calhoun, and indeed in all
those master minds that have been remarkable for their
depth and originality.
GENERAL ATTRIBUTES. 107
GENERAL ATTRIBUTES OF THE INTELLECTUALS.
TALENTS.—If one of the lower or middle ranges of
perceptives are very large, and all the rest of the Intellec-
tuals are fairly develoved, a particular talent will be mani-
fested. If all the Intellectual Class is very large, then uni-
versal talent will be possessed.
When all the other Intellectuals are medium, then very
large
Individuality produces a talent for general observation.
Chemicality, for catering.
Language, for philology.
Form, for drawing.
Size, for perspective.
Weight, for engineering.
Color, for painting,
Order, for arrangement.
Number, for computation.
Direction, for navigation.
Eventuality, for history.
Time, for chronology.
Tune, for music.
Comparison, for analysis.
Causality, for originality.
I repeat it, no talent is produced by a single organ,
unless it is well sustained by others, particularly by Indivi-
duality, Comparison, and Causality. These three are the
most important organs of the Intellect; whoever is very defi-
cient in either of these, cannot rise to eminence in any pro-
108 PHRENOLOGY.
fession, whatever other advantages he may possess. In
practical life, a deficiency of Causality, is of much conse-
quence,—a deficiency in Comparison produces a still more
serious effect; but a deficiency of Individuality is wholly fatal
to practical success—and a deficiency of all three produces
general intellectual weakness. These three are the general
Intellectual*—they apply to every subject; if they are all
very small, idiocy is inevitable; and if very large, even
if all the other Intellectuals are less than medium, great
general talent will be manifested.
If these three organs are large, and Form and Color very
large, a man will be a genius in painting, provided all the
other parts of his constitution are fairly developed; or if Or-
der and Number are very large he will be an excellent ac-
comptant—if Language, a linguist- if Weight, an engineer—
if Direction, Size, and Number, a mathematician—if Form,
Size, Weight and Order, a sculptor—if Chemicality, a cate-
rer—if Eventuality and Time, a historian, &c.
But it will be asked, does talent depend altogether upon
the Intellectuals'? do not the Propensities produce talents'?
I answer that they only produce the manifestations of talent
by directing the Intellectuals to some particular subject that
is calculated to gratify the propensities. Constructiveness,
for instance, when large, is the source of great pleasure to
the mechanic, and prompts him to use his Weight, Form,
&c. in mechanical operations. If Approbativeness is also
large, and fame is in his reach, this will combine with his
Constructiveness and induce him to exert his talents still
more vigorously; and Perfectiveness, if large, will make
him delight in perfecting his performances; but all these
motives will be vain if the Intellectuals are very small—he
may task his powers to their utmost, but he cannot excel
—
he might as well
" Call spirits from the vasty deep."
MEMORY. 109
and expect them to rise at his command; but let the propen-
sities be powerful, and the Intellectuals large and vigorous,
and he will manifest extraordinary talents whenever cir-
cumstances call them into action.
MEMORY.—Each of the Intellectuals has a memory
peculiar to itself.
Individuality bestows a memory of things in general, with-
out reference to their qualities and relations—such as
houses, towns, mountains, &c, but it always acts in com-
bination with some of the other organs of the intellect.
Chemicality, gives a memory of odours and savours.
Language, of words and other signs.
Form, of forms, features, &c.
Size, of distance and size.
Weight, of force, momentum, weight, and strength.
Color, of complexions and shades of color.
Order, of the arrangement of things.
Number, of the number of things.
Direction, of direction, or points of the compass.
Eventuality, of the history, or action of things, of stories,
anecdotes, &c.
Time, of the duration of time in history and music.
Tune, of tunes.
Comparison, of resemblances, differences, analogies and
classes of things.
Causality, of the origin, cause, or connection of things and
events.
Large Individuality, Comparison and Causality combined,
enable persons to remember the general meaning of what
they see, or hear, although they may forget the words, time,
place, and many minute details and circumstances.
Large Eventuality, Comparison, and Language, give a
memory of classical literature.
10
110 PHRENOLOGY.
Large Individuality, Size, and Direction, give a memory
of places and positions.
The remarks which I made concerning the effects of the
propensities in producing lalents, are equally applicable to
memory; thus, large Acquisitiveness will cause the intellect
to remember the circumstances and amount of a debt; Ap-
probativeness will cause Language to remember the words
of praise or censure; and Alimentiveness will cause Chemi-
cality to remember the flavor of a favorite dish; but this
effect is produced by the propensities calling the attention
to the subject; memory is produced only by the Intellec-
tuals, but the subject remembered depends upon the pro-
pensities.
The reason why some persons have a memory of one
class of ideas and not of another is obvious, since the power
of memory is in proportion to the size of the Intellectual or-
gan upon which the memory depends. I have seen many in-
stances of parents being vain of the talents of their children,
because a great memory of words was manifested; and in
other instances I have seen them despairing of success in the
education of children who really possessed excellent talents,
but were deficient only in Language, or Eventuality; but
the principles just explained, will serve to correct these
errors.
IMPRESSION—Is an effect produced upon the senses,
and conveyed to the intellect.
PERCEPTION—Is the act of the intellect which is exci*
ted by an impression, and immediately follows it. There
are as many kinds of perception as of Intellectual organs.
CONCEPTION—Is the intellectual operation which suc-
ceeds perception, and consists in combining perceptions with
previously acquired ideas, and producing new ideas by
combination.
IMAGINATION. Ill
IMAGI NATION—Is rapid conception; it is most fre-
quently applied to those new combinations of ideas which
are unnatural and improbable.
Imagination is much modified by temperament, by excite-
ment, and by disease; the more active the temperament, the
more vivid will be the imagination. Some persons are too
lymphatic to have much imagination; their perceptions re-
main in their minds, or are repeated continually, without
combining sufficiently to constitute new ideas. " Some
indolent people," says Darwin, '.* hum the same tune, or
repeat the same verses for hours together," thus
—
Onward he trudged, not knowing what he sought,
And whistled as he went, for want of thought.
A nervous, or sanguine-nervous temperament, is most
favorable to imagination. Poets generally have such a
temperament; and Shakespeare's description is true to na-
ture, when he says,
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet,
Are of imagination all compact.
One sees more devils than vast hell can hold,
That is the madman: the lover all as frantic,
Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt:
The poet's eye in a fine frenzy rolling,
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven,
And as imagination bodies forth
The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothings,
A local habitation and a name.
Ideas of perception are always true to reality, except in
cases of disease, or illusion of the senses; but ideas of concep-
tion and imagination being combinations of the perceptions,
may be unnatural and unreal, and then are commonly said
to be "creations of the brain," 4i
the effects of a fertile ima-
gination.'*'"
Thus the Sphinx of the ancient Greeks, a monster which
had the head and breast of a woman, the body of a dog, the
112 PHRENOLOGY.
tail of a serpent, the wings of a bird, the paws of a lion,
and a human voice, is a conception produced by an unna-
tural combination of several perceptions of natural objects.
The same is true of Milton's conception of Sin, that
" Seemed woman to the waist, and fair,
But ended foul in many a scaly fold,
Voluminous and vast, a serpent armed
With mortal sting; about her middle round
A cry of hell-hounds, never ceasing, barked
With wide Cerberean mouths full loud, and rung
A hideous peal."
But however unnatural the combinations, they never in
health, disprove or contradict the perceptions; and no man
by force of imagination, can persuade himself that vinegar
is sweet, or
" Hold fire in his hand,.
By thinking on the frosty Caucasus;
Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
By bare imagination of a feast;
Or wallow naked in December's snow
By thinking on fantastic summer's heat."
When a well formed and philosophical intellect is excited
by an imaginative temperament, the conceptions will be in
agreement with the rules of propriety and the laws of nature;
and it was doubtless in this sense that De Alembert spoke
of the necessity of imagination to a mathematician. Pro-
fessor Mitchell, of the Wesleyan Academy, Mass., informed
me that it was common for him to retire to bed with an un-
solved problem in his mind, and during the night to call
up before his mind's eye, (his Form, Size, Direction, and
Order,) all the figures on the black board, and then in ima-
gination combine them anew again and again until he at
last arrived at a correct result; and in one instance he
fell asleep while thus engaged, and actually dreamed out a
solution to a problem that he had previously failed to solve
when awake.
ASSOCIATION. 113
ASSOCIATION—Is that law of the mind by which, if
one idea is excited, it is followed or accompanied with other
ideas. Darwin remarks: " All the fibrous motions, whe-
ther muscular or sensual, which are frequently brought into
action together, either in combined tribes or successive trains,
become so connected by habit, that when one of them is re-
produced, the others have a tendency to succeed or accom-
pany it; thus, the taste of a pine apple recalls the color and
shape, although we eat it blind-folded: we can scarcely think
of solidity without figure. In learning to fence, or perform
any mechanical operation, or in learning any kind of sci-
ence, we acquire a habit of using certain fibres in association
at the same time."
The same principle which accounts for the association of
the bodily organs, will undoubtedly apply to the organs of
the mind. If several organs have been in the habit of act-
ing together, they become so associated that when one is ex-
cited to action the others involuntarily unite with it; this is
much more likely to be the case, if the organs are conti-
guous to each other. It is therefore not difficult to under-
stand how the action of the organ of Weight should be natu-
rally associated with Form and Color, so that we can scarce-
ly have an idea of solidity without figure and color. It is
also a stated maxim in Phrenology, that the largest organs
are habitually active in combination; so that when one is
excited the others are apt to associate in action with it. It is
upon this principle that artificial associations are formed,
and the science of mnemonics, or artificial memory, is
based;—by associating new and unexpected ideas with cer-
tain familiar objects, so that by calling up an object, the idea
comes up by being associated with it. But this kind of arti-
ficial memory can only be useful by being regulated upon
phrenolog'cal principles, so that the ideas acquired by the
small organs may be associated with the larga organs.
—
10*
114 PHRENOLOGY.
I know a lady who has Language small, and Form, Color,
Order and Number large, and she can only remember
names by calling to mind their appearance when written.
ATTENTION—Is when Individuality is directed to a
particular object; but what the object shall be, depends upon
the other organs; we attend to those things which are most
interesting to our largest propensities. Alimentiveness for
example, prompts Individuality to attend to food; Construc-
tiveness, to mechanical structures ; and Parentiveness to
children.
Plate ff
..
.. Vv'
(
W P?
Landlord
P. Baxter.
W.Sfjttvn.
C. Cnhnnl'HS.
M'l). AnaerWn$ Gibbvn
A. Archimedes.
V. Fulton.
Yi.Ha/durr/
wnvasi.
T. Titian.
W. Washington.
L . Z» agrrifffjf'.
/,<>/,
LOCATION OF THE INTELLECTUALS. 115
LOCATION OF THE INTELLECTUALS.
1. Individuality gives prominence and width at the up-
per part of the nose, or else it is developed downward like
the middle of a yoke, or both.
2. Chemicality, gives fullness to the bones under the
eye, and length from the ear to the nose. See Anacreon
and the landlord, and Mr. D., plate II.
3. Language crowds the eye outward and downward,
causing a bagging appearance under the eye, as in Milton,
Voltaire, and Horn Tooke. When Chemicality is large Lan-
guage sometimes appears smaller than it really is. When
Language is small, the eye is sunken.
4. F0R31 contributes to give width between the eyes; it
crowds the eyes towards the outer part of the socket so as
to show a space between the eye and the nose. See Milton,
and Raphael, and compare them with Baxter, in whom Form
is deficient. All this Range is large in Archimedes.
Size gives width to Individuality, and makes an obtuse
angle at the junction of the nose and forehead, and also
makes the brow prominent at that part. See Raphael and
Watt. When small, the brow will form nearly a right angle
with the nose, as in Baxter.
6. Weight gives a heavy, deep, overhanging appear-
ance to the brow, as in Watt and Fulton. When small,
the brow is shallow and almost even with the eye at this
part.
7. Color gives a swelling, or arched appearance to the
brow, a little outside of the middle, as in Rubens, Titian,
and Hogarth; but when small the brow will be depressed or
10**
116 PHRENOLOGY.
flat. At that place there is naturally a little depression, or
hollow in the bone, which must not be mistaken for small
Color; the organ is a little outside of the hollow.
8. Order is over the external angle of the eye, at the an-
gular protuberance of bone that is formed for the attach-
ment of a part of the mastoid muscle; this bone is some-
times mistaken for a developement of this organ and of
Tune. Order is just under Tune. When both Color and
Order are large, the brow will be arched. When Order is
larger than either Color or Number, the brow will appear
angular like that of Cuvier, or Washington.
9. Number, is at the outer extremity of the brow, and
when large gives fullness and length to it, as is well repre-
sented in the brow of Lagrange, the celebrated mathema-
tician, who at the age of sixteen, was professor of mathe-
matics. When Number and Order are both small, the brow
falls off from above, and constitutes but a narrow ridge close
around the eyes, and not the broad swell as in Lagrange
and Colburn, and Newton, Washington and Hamilton.
10. Direction or Locality, when very large, protrudes
the frontal sinus forward, and gives it prominence on each
side of Individuality, and just above Size, as it is seen in
Columbus, Cook, A. Vespucius, and Washington.
11. Eventuality gives roundness and fullness to the
centre of the forehead between Individuality and Compari-
son, as in Mr. D., plate II.
12. Time continues laterally the fullness of Eventuality.
13. Tune is just above Order, and gives width to that
part of the forehead, as seen in Mozart, Weber, and Han-
del.
14. Comparison, gives prominence to the centre of the
upper part of the forehead, as in Anacreon.
15. Causality gives fullness outside of Comparison, and
makes the forehead wide and prominent at the upper part.
LOCATION OP THE INTELLECTUALS. 117
See Clinton, Socrates and Franklin. When Comparison is
small, and Causality large, the upper middle of the fore-
head will be flat, or even depressed; and the sides, where
Causality is situated, will protrude like embryo horns. When
Comparison is large, and Causality small, the forehead will
fall off, and be narrow at its upper part, though the centre
of the forehead will be comparatively prominent.
It should be remembered, that it is the peculiar form
which the head assumes when certain organs are large or
small, that enables us to judge of their size, much more
frequently than mere prominences or depressions. Some-
times the whole of a particular region of the head is large,
and then we of course infer that each of the individual or-
gans is large which go to constitute that part of the head.
In other instances, one organ will be large and prominent
alone, while all its adjoining organs are small; and it re-
quires considerable practice, to know the peculiar forms and
appearances which organs assume, both when single and in
combination.
There are certain forms of forehead that are undeservedly
popular; owing to a misunderstanding of correct phrenologi-
cal principles. For instance, those who are but little ac-
quainted with phrenology, suppose that a forehead with
prominent Reflectives, always indicates a profound mind;
and the writings of phrenologians are certainly calculated
to lead the inexperienced into this error;—but it should be
remembered, that the Reflectives are of little use when not
supported by the Perceptives; and if the organs in the lower
part of the forehead, (the Lower Range of Perceptives,) are
deficient, particularly if the important organ of Individuality
is deficient, the upper organs will lack their appropriate
stimulus; and the individual, though prone to reasoning,
will be frequently mistaken in his conclusions, on account
of his imperfect perception and recollection of facts. Ano-
118 PHRENOLOGY.
ther error is, to suppose that a sloping forehead indicates
weakness of intellect; for the slope may be principally
caused by the uncommon prominence of the Lower Range,
and not by a deficiency of the Upper. The sloping fore-
head is found upon most of those men who have been suc-
cessful in practical life. When however, the Lower Range
is only medium, and the forehead slopes considerably, it
may be justly deemed an evidence of a deficient intellect.
Another error is, to think a very high and wide forehead
indicative of a great mind; for this will not prove true, un-
less it is equally remarkable for its prominence forward.
The Intellectuals do not give uncommon expansion to the
forehead, even when they are all very large; they only
give fullness and length from the ear forward. The organs
that give height to the forehead are 10th, 11th, and 12th, of
the Social Propensities. Those that give it width, are VIII,
X, and XI, of the Ipseals. These may be all very large, and
the Intellectuals small, and consequently the forehead will
be high and wide, but shallow; and the character will be
eccentric, superstitious, fantastical and foolish.
It is not difficult for an experienced practitioner, to judge
of the degree in which the expansion of a forehead is caused
by the intellect, and how far it depends upon the surround-
ing propensities.
CHAPTER VII
IPSEAL PROPENSITIES.
Excluding the new organs,* which I shall presently intro-
duce, I find this Class developed in the following order:
FIRST RANGE.
Alimentiveness.
Destructiveness.
Combativeness.
THIRD RANGE.
Constructiveness.
Acquisitiveness.
SECOND RANGE.
Secretiveness.
Cautiousness.
FOURTH RANGE.
Playfulness.
Perfectiveness.
Hopefulness.
All these Propensities were evidently bestowed for the;
benefit of the individual, without reference to society. The
first, second, and third Ranges, produce those actions only
which have for their object the nourishment, and preserva-
tion of self; but the fourth Range impels man to attend to
his improvement, perfection, and future happiness.
*I wish to show that this classification does not depend upon the
introduction of new organs, and have therefore purposely excluded
them here, and introduced them afterwards—page 122.
120 PHRENOLOGY.
A knowledge of the natural history of animals, in the
present improved state to which the great Cuvier has
brought it, would be highly useful to phrenological students,
and enable them better to appreciate this arrangement of
the Ipseals; but it is sufficient for our present purpose, to
state, that the more perfect animals maybe divided into the
Carniverous, Herbivorous, and Rodentia; on account of
the different modes in which they obtain their food; and
that the first, second, and third Ranges of Ipseals, exactly
correspond with this division of animals. The Carniverous
animals are distinguished for the manifestation of the first
Range, which may therefore be denominated the Carnive-
rous Range; the Herbiverous animals for the manifesta-
tion of the second, which may be called the Herbiverous
Range; and the Rodentia for the third, which may be named
the Rodentia Range. The fourth is peculiar to man, and
may therefore be denominated the Human Range.
We have already seen the important relation of Indivi-
duality to the Intellectuals, and have had abundant occasion
to admire the beauty and simplicity of the arrangement, by
which they expand outward and upward from it, like the
branches of a tree from their parent trunk; but the arrange-
ment of the Ipseals, their mutual relation, and their depen-
dence upon Alimentiveness, is still more remarkable.
The propensity of Alimentiveness, at the foundation of
the Ipseals, is manifested by all animals, however low or
high in the scale of organization; and the Carniverous,
Herbiverous, and Rodentia Ranges, are in reality only so
many modes of ministering to its gratification; but the Hu-
man Range is more exalted above the bodily wants of the
animal, and related to intellectual and moral advancement.
These remarks will be better understood by the following
arrangement:
PROPENSITIES. 121
CARNIVEROUS RANGE.
Alimentivcness.
Destructiveness.
Corabativeness.
These are manifested in a powerful degree, by the ani-
mals that live entirely by the destruction of life, and are
remarkable for their ferocity, such as the Tiger, Hyena,
Catamount, Wolf, and all the cat and dog genus; and this
range is very large in their heads.
IIERBIVER0US RANGE.
Alimentiveness.
Secretiveness.
Cautiousness.
This Range is manifested by animals that feed entirely
upon vegetables, and are peaceable, timid, and gentle in
their dispositions, such as the Deer, Sheep, Horse, Antelope,
and Cow, and in their heads the Carniverous Range is
small, and the second Range large, particularly Cautious-
ness; this is obvious from the narrowness of their heads at
the base, compared to those of the Carnivora, and their full-
ness in the upper part, at the side, where Cautiousness is
situated.
RODENTIA RANGE.
Alimentiveness.
Construct! veness.
Acquisitiveness.
This Range is peculiar to the animals that build recepta-
cles for food, and acquire bark, nuts, &c. to gnaw during
the winter; and it is from* this gnawing propensity that they
have received the name of Rodentia, or gnawers. The most
remarkable of this genus are, the Beaver, Squirrel, Ham-
122 PHRENOLOGY.
ster, Rat, and Mouse. All the acquisitions of animals
which they preserve for future use, are for the gratification
of Alimentiveness.
HUMAN RANGE.
Playfulness.
Perfectiveness.
Hopefulness.
This Range of lpseals is not directly dependent upon Ali-
mentiveness, but it seems to be based upon the assumption,
that the bodily wants are satisfied, and that the individual
has leisure to play, and improve, and look forward for fu-
ture happiness. We never spend our time in gratifying
this Range, while any of the organs below are in want of
present gratification; for example, we never think of pla}-,
or improvement, or scheming for the future, when we are
very hungry, or angry, or fearful, or suffering for want of
clothes, or shelter, or engaged in acquiring any thing for
present use. Nourishment and preservation must receive
our first attention, and afterwards our nobler Ipseal powers
come into action, to ornament and crown the superstructure-
that our necessities have raised.
NEW ORGANS.
I have shown what should be the arrangement of the lp-
seals, provided no other organs were discovered ; but if
Pneumativeness, and Sanitativeness are admitted, as I doubt
not they will be, then another Range must be added. This
will not, however, in any degree mar the beauty of the new
classification, which my friends have so much admired, but
will afford additional evidence of its truth, and conformity
to nature. Should these two organs be rejected by other
CORPOREAL RANGE. 123
phrenologists, and their existence or location denied, the pre-
ceding classification will yet remain unaltered; and when
ever any new organs are introduced, they must be in con-
formity to its essential principles, though they may occa-
sion a trifling modification of some of its details.
CORPOREAL RANGE.
Air, food, and bodily preservation, are required by every
organized being; these three wants are attended to by ani-
mals in preference to all others, not only of the Social, but
also of the Ipseal Class. Pneumativeness, Alimentiveness
and Sanitativeness, then, must constitute a distinct range,
which is wholly related to bodily wants, and may therefore
be denominated the Corporeal Range.
The introduction of this Range will render it necessary,
in order to give a connected and consecutive idea of the
whole Ipseal Class thus modified, to recapitulate the arrange-
ment; the first Range being now second, &c.
1PSEALS.
1. CORPOREAL RANGE. 3. HERBIVEROUS RANGE.
1. Pneumativeness. vi. Secretiveness.
ii. Alimentiveness. vn. Cautiousness.
m. Sanitativeness.
"2. CARNIVEROUS RANGE. 4. RODENTIA RANGE.
iv. Destructiveness. vm. Constructiveness.
v. Combativeness. ix. Acquisitiveness.
5. HUMAN RANGE.
x. Playfulness.
xi. Perfectiveness.
xii. Hopefulness.
124 PHRENOLOGY.
EFFECTS OF PROPENSITIES.
Before proceeding to explain the propensities separately,
it will be necessary to show the distinction between Propen-
sities, Feelings, and Voluntary Actions.
After much reflection, I am fully convinced, that the
propensities act only through the medium of the intel-
lect; and that to promote this end, all the organs of the pro-
pensities terminate in the Intellectual organs. I am sup-
ported in this opinion, both by anatomical and physiological
evidence. The anatomical evidence is, that the anterior
column of the Spinal Cord, (which, according to Bell, con-
tains all the elements of voluntary motion,) proceeds from
the anterior lobe of the brain ; or in other words, all the
nerves of voluntary motion proceed directly from the intel-
lect, and not from the propensities, which are the original
sources of voluntary motion. Now the reason of this can-
not be explained, without admitting that the Intellectual
organs first receive the influence of the propensities, and
then transmit it to the muscles through the voluntary nerves.
The physiological evidence is, that the intellect may be
intensely active without rousing the propensities; but the
propensities cannot be active even in a moderate degree,
without rousing the intellect ; and again, the propensities
never produce actions without the consciousness and direc-
tion of the intellect. When one of the propensities is exci-
ted, it immediately communicates to the intellect an influ-
ence which we call a feeling or emotion; and when one
feeling becomes so strong as to predominate over all others,
the intellect relieves itself by transmitting to the anterior
spinal column, an influence, which is conveyed to the mus-
cles, and produces voluntary motion. The following ex-
planations will now be understood:
PROPENSITIES. 125
Propensities, are blind impulses to action, proceeding
from the Ipseal and Social organs.
Feelings, are effects which propensities produce in the
intellect. The strength of a feeling will be in proportion
to the size of the organ that produces it, and the degree
in which it is excited.
Voluntary Actions, are the effects which propensities
produce upon the nerves and muscles, through the medium,
and by the direction of the intellect. The force, or strength
of an action, depends upon the size of the propensity in
which it originates, the degree to which the propensity is
excited, and the size and vigour of the muscles. This ex-
plains why a man can strike a more forcible blow when
angry, than when mild ; and also, why a man with large
Combativeness can strike a more powerful blow, (all other
things being equal) than a man who has it small. It also
explains why an insane man, in a fit of fury, when his pro-
pensities are greatly excited, often manifests a degree of
muscular strength which he could not possibly equal when
in health.
In explaining a propensity, we should consider,
First, its utility, or the design of the Creator in bestow-
ing it.
Second, the feelings which it produces; and we must bear
in mind, that each propensity produces a disagreeable fee-
ling when it is not gratified, and an agreeable feeling when
gratified.
Third, the actions which it produces; we must make a
distinction between deficient, proper and excessive actions.
Fourth, the objects and circumstances that excite it.
Let us apply these rules to one of the propensities; for
example, Alimentiveness is useful and necessary, to prompt
animals to nourishment; when active and not gratified, it
produces the disagreeablefeeling of hunger', and when grati-
11
126 PHRENOLOGY.
fied it produces an agreeable feeling of satisfaction. The
action which Alimentiveness produces is eating, and this is
deficient when bodily nourishment is neglected; it is proj)er
when it is in harmony with the demands of the constitution;
and it is excessive when it combines with Chemical ity and
produces gluttony and drunkenness. The circumstances
that excite Alimentiveness are, either the perception of ali-
ment, or certain irritations of the stomach.
CORPOREAL RANGE.
I. PNEUMATIVENESS.
"He breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man be-
came a living soul." Genesis.
This propensity bears precisely the same relation to the
lungs that Alimentiveness does to the stomach. When the
lungs are not supplied with air, a disagreeable feeling of
suffocation is experienced, analogous to the feeling of hun-
ger when Alimentiveness is not gratified.
I was led to the discovery of this organ, by observing that
those persons who were small in the region of Alimentive-
ness were generally small also in the region of the lungs,
and vice versa; and in my lectures, many of my friends
will remember, that I frequently mentioned this fact, ac-
knowledging at the same time that 1 was unable to account
for it. I also observed that persons with arterial tempera-
ments were generally wider through the head at this part,
than nervous or venous temperaments. I could readily
understand that by the laws of harmony large Alimentive-
ness might, and probably would be accompanied with a large
PNEUMATIVENESS. 127
abdomen, and pelvis; but this would not account for the
fullness of the chest when the abdomen was small, accom-
panied with what I supposed was a very large Alimentive-
ness. While making observations upon the organ of Chemi-
cality, I had occasion to notice the various forms which the
head assumes between the nose and the ear; and I found
that Alimentiveness was more active, if the head was large
immediately before the ear, and then sloped off towards the
nose, giving the face the form of a wedge: but in such
cases the chest was not so full, as when the face was more
square and large near the cheek or malar bones. This
suggested to me the idea of a propensity related to the lungs,
like Alimentiveness to the stomach; and in pursuing the in-
vestigation, I found a greater amount of evidence in corro-
boration than I anticipated. The important question, how
far breathing may be voluntary, is not yet fully decided
among physiologists; but the experiments of Le Galois prove
conclusively that respiration is dependent upon the brain
the organ of mind—and that circulation is independent of
the brain. To demonstrate this, he cut off the heads of ani-
mals, and respiration instantly ceased; but if he tied the
blood vessels, to stop the bleeding, and then introduced air
into the lungs artificially, the circulation of blood continued
as usual. He next ascertained that the influence of the brain
was communicated to the lungs by the means of the pneu-
mogastric nerve, which goes from the middle column of
the medulla oblongata, and sends its principal branches to
the lungs and stomach; for when this nerve was separated
from the lungs, the effect upon respiration was the same as
when the head was cut off. He then attempted to ascertain
what part of the brain influenced respiration; and came to
the conclusion, that it was that part of the medulla oblongata
where the pneumogastric nerve originates; because neither
the injury of the brain above, nor of the spinal cord below,
128 PHRENOLOGY.
interrupted respiration. My opinion is, that respiration is
dependent upon both voluntary and involuntary powers; and
I suspect that the involuntary power originates in the medulla
oblongata, and the voluntary in the organ of Pneumativeness.
This conjecture is the more plausible, as it reconciles all
the facts, and explains how the ordinary action of the lungs
may be involuntary as in sleep, while the extraordinary as
in speaking, or smelling, are voluntary; and also, how the
voluntary may at any instant predominate. Wilson Phillip
contended that respiration is altogether voluntary, and uses
the following language:
" It has been customary to speak of the muscles of respi-
ration as at least in part muscles of involuntary motion.
What is meant by a muscle of voluntary motion? It is a
muscle whose action under all ordinary circumstances we
can excite, interrupt, retard, and accelerate at pleasure; but
it is not a muscle whose action we can at all times control.
There is no such muscle; because, the impression on the
sensorium, tending to call any particular set of muscles into
action, may be so powerful, that we are unable to control
it. Who can prevent the action of the muscles of the arm
when fire is suddenly applied to the fingers? Neither do we
mean by the term muscle of voluntary motion, one which
we cannot call into action during sleep. If our posture du-
ring sleep becomes uncomfortable, we call the muscles,
both of the trunk and limbs, into action for the purpose of
changing it. The uneasiness caused by the continuance
of the same posture sufficiently rouses the sleeper to make
him will a change of posture, without rendering him at all
more sensible to other impressions of a slighter nature, and
his sleep continues.
" What muscles, then, are more under command than
those of respiration? We can on all usual occasions inter-
rupt, renew, retard, or accelerate their action at pleasure;
PNEUMATIVENESS. 129
and if we cannot interrupt it for as long a time as that of
the muscles of a limb, this depends on no peculiarity in the
action of these muscles, but on the nature of the office they
are called on to perform; and if we excite them in sleep for
the removal of an uneasy sensation, and cannot control them
under a sense of suffocation, that is, in a state of greater
suffering than we can voluntarily bear, all this is no more
than applies to every other muscle of voluntary motion: but,
from the nature of our constitution, we must breathe many
times every minute, and we need not turn ourselves more
than once in many hours, —a difference depending on cir-
cumstances which have nothing to do with the nature of the
muscles we employ in either of these acts."
"The muscles of respiration, then, it would appear, are
perfectly muscles of voluntary motion as those of the limbs,
and are never excited but by an act of the sensorium. When
there is no feeling to induce us to breathe, the breathing
ceases.
" That on ordinary occasions we are unconscious of this
feeling, in the common acceptation of the term, (that is,
that it makes no lasting impression on the mind, for this is
necessary to what we mean by consciousness,) unless the
attention is particularly directed to it, is no proof that it has
not existed. When we direct our attention to the act of
breathing, especially if we breathe more slowly than usual,
we can distinctly perceive the sensation which induces us to
inspire, and that it is a voluntary act which relieves it.
"The same observations respecting consciousness apply
to all the more trivial habitual acts of the sensorium. In
playing on an instrument, we cannot tell which finger last
struck the chord; in walking, we cannot tell which leg we
last moved;—yet all such acts are strictly acts of volition:
when we attend to them, we can regulate them as we please;
but, in proportion as they are habitual we attend to them the
11*
130 PHRENOLOGY.
less, and therefore least of all to the act of respiration.**
Sir Charles Bell, on the contrary, admits the combined
operation of voluntary and involuntary powers in respira-
tion; but at the same time acknowledges the difficulty of
explaining the manner in which the mind influences the
lungs. He seem to be aware that he is in contradiction
with himself, when he asserts that the middle, or respiratory
column of the medulla oblongata is independent of the brain,
and yet that respiration is dependent upon the will. This is
evident from the two following passages from " Bell on the
Nerves.**
" The anterior column of each lateral division of the spi-
nal marrow is for motion; the posterior column is for sensa-
tion; and the middle one is for respiration. The two former
extend up into the brain, and are dispersed or lost in it
for their functions stand related to the sensorium: but the
latter stops short in the medulla oblongata, being in function
independent of reason, and capable of its office independently
of the brain, or when separated from it."
" These facts exhibit the importance of the spinal marrow
to the act of breathing, and point to the upper part of the
column, the medulla oblongata, as particularly the seat of
this power. But a difficult question remains. The act of
respiration in man, and in general in the higher animals,
is not subservient to the circulation of blood, and to the gene-
ral economy merely. The machinery of respiration be-
comes a grand power under the command of the will, and
efficient in crying, speaking, smelling, &c. It will be diffi-
cult to determine how the power of respiration, residing in
the spinal marrow, and independent of the brain in its pri-
mary and most important office, is brought to be subservient.
to the will. Is it by a prolongation of the appropriate co-
lumn of the spinal marrow up into the brain, or is it by the
junction of the cerebral and voluntary nerves with the respi-
ratory nerves of the medulla oblongata?**
PNEUMATIVENESS. 131
Again he says: " Under the class of respiratory motions
we have to distinguish two kinds: first, the involuntary, or
instinctive; secondly, those which accompany an act of vo-
lition. We are unconscious of that state of alternation of
activity and rest which characterises the instinctive act of
breathing in sleep; and this condition of activity of the respi-
ratory organs we know, by experiment, is independent of the
brain. But, on the other hand, we see that the act of res-
piration is sometimes an act of volition, intended to accom-
plish some other operation, as that of smelling or speaking.
I apprehend that it is this compound operation of the organs
of breathing which introduces a certain degree of complexi-
ty into the system of respiratory nerves. A concurrence
of the nerves of distinct systems will be found necessary to
actions which at first sight appear to be very simple acts of
the will."
The evidence of the existence of a distinct propensity of
Pneumativeness, to be derived from the natural history of
animals, is of the most convincing and interesting nature.
Smellie observes:
"All animals furnished with lungs, express their wants,
their affections and aversions, their pleasures and pains,
either by words, or by sounds peculiar to each species.
These are produced by different changes in the windpipe or
canal through which the air is drawn into the lungs. The
inferior animals are by this means enabled to maintain some
sort of communication with others of the same species, and
can, to a certain extent, convey information and express
their affections and wants.
" When about to laugh, we make a very full inspiration,
which is succeeded by frequent, interrupted, and sonorous
expirations. When the titillation is great, whether it arises
from the mind or body, these convulsive expirations some-
times interrupt the breathing to such a degree as to endan-
132 PHRENOLOGY.
ger suffocation. Moderate laughing, on the contrary, pro-
duces health; by agitating the whole body, it quickens the
circulation of the blood, gives an inexpressible cheerfulness
to the countenance, and banishes every kind of anxiety
from the mind.
" In weeping, we employ nearly the same organs as in
laughing. It commences with a deep inspiration, which is
succeeded by short, broken, sonorous, and disagreeable
expirations."
" By respiration and the instruments employed in the per-
formance of it, the young of animals are enabled to extract
milk from the breasts of the mother. By respiration, odors
are conveyed to the nose; and coughing, sneezing, yawn-
ing, sighing, singing, and many other functions of the ani-
mal economy, are at least partly accomplished."
" The respiration of Fishes, is carried on by means of
gills or branchise, to which the air is applied through the
medium of the water. Every portion of water contains a
certain quantity of air combined or mixed in some way
with it, and by this means is made capable of supporting
respiration. A current of water is constantly passed over
the gills by the action of the mouth, and produces the requi-
site change upon the blood circulating through them. This
change is of the same kind with that taking place in the
warm blooded animals. It arises from the influence of the
oxygen in the atmospheric air; and if the water be examin-
ed, after fishes have respired it, the air it contains will be
found to have undergone a similar change of composition
with that breathed by quadrupeds and birds.
" When a free communication with the external air is
prevented by ice, or by artifice, fishes immediately disco-
ver symptoms of uneasiness, and soon perish. iElian in-
forms us, that, in winter, when the river Ister was frozen,
the fishes dug holes in the ice; that great numbers of fishes
PNEUMATIVEN'ESS. 133
resorted to these holes; and that their eagerness was so
great that they allowed themselves to be seized by the hands
of the fishermen. Rondeletius, made many experiments
on this subject. If, says he, fishes are put into a narrow-
mouthed vessel filled with water, and a communication with
the air be preserved, the animals live and swim about, not
for days and months only* but for several years. If the
mouth of the vessel, however, be closely shut, either with
the hand or any other covering, so that the passage of the
air is excluded, the fishes suddenly die. Immediately after
the mouth of the vessel is closed, the creatures rush tumul-
tously, one above another, to the top, contending which
of them shall soonest receive the benefit of the air. In
the shallow part of the river, when frozen, many fishes
are found dead, but, when parts of a river are deep or
rapid, the fishes fly from the ice, and by this means avoid
destruction.
" These, and similar experiments, have been repeated by
Mr. Willoughby, and many other modern authors ; and
they have uniformly been attended with the same event. A
carp, in a large vessel full of water, was placed in the
receiver of an air pump. In proportion as the air was ex-
hausted by working the pump, the surface of the animaFs
body was covered by a number of bubbles. The carp soon
breathed quicker, and with more difficulty. A little after
it rose to the surface in quest of air. The bubbles on its
surface next disappeared; the belly, which before was swol-
len, suddenly collapsed; and the animal sunk to the bottom,
and expired in convulsions.
"Air is distributed in the bodies of Insects by a great
number of tubes or canals, called trachea, which convey it
to every part. These communicate with the external air
by means of openings called stigmata, which furnish a con-
stant supply. That these organs are destined for the trans-
134 PHRENOLOGY.
mission of air, has been proved by repeated experiments;
for when stopped up by the application of oil, or other unc-
tious substances, the animals soon lose their existence. In
some insects they protrude externally to some distance from
the body, and have the appearance of one, two or three tails;
and in others they arise from the back and sides.
"In contemplating the parts of animals, when the uses
of these parts are not apparent, we are apt to deceive our-
selves by rashly supposing them to answer purposes for
which they were never intended by nature. Impressed with
this idea, M. de Reaumur was not satisfied with the notion
of Godart and others, that the long tails of certain worms
were intended to keep them steady in their motions, and
prevent them from rolling. Reaumur observed, that these
worms or grubs could lengthen or shorten their tails at plea-
sure, but that they were always longer than the animal's
body. Because these tails have some resemblance to that of
a rat, he distinguished the animals by the name of rat-tailed
worms. These worms are aquatic, and never appear on
dry ground till they are about to undergo their first trans-
formation. Reaumur, in order to observe their economy
more closely, obtained a number of rat-tailed worms, and
put them into a glass vessel filled two inches high with
water. At first they were considerably agitated, each seem-
ingly searching for a proper place to repose. Some of them
swam across, others attached themselves to the sides, and
others rested at the bottom of the vessel. In a quarter of
an hour they were almost entirely tranquil, and Reaumur
soon discovered the real use of their long tails. Upon
examining the vessel, he found that each of the animals, in
whatever situation they were placed, extended its tail exact-
ly to the surface; that, like other aquatic insects, the res-
piration of air was necessary to their existence; and that
the tail, which is tubular, and open at the extremity, was the
PN BUM ATI VENESS. 135
organ by which this operation was performed. In this ex-
periment, the distance from the bottom to the surface was
two inches, and, of course the tails were of equal length.
To discover how far the animals could extend their tails, he
gradually augmented the height of the water, and the tails
uniformly rose to the surface, till it was between five and
six inches high. When the water was raised higher, the
animals immediately quitted their stations at the bottom, and
either mounted higher in the water, or fixed upon the sides
of the vessel; in situations which rendered it convenient for
them to reach the surface with the points of their tails.
These tails consist of two tubes, both of which are capable
of extension and contraction. The first tube is always visi-
ble; but the second, which is the proper organ of respira-
tion, is exerted only when the water is raised to a certain
height. Through this tube the air is conveyed into two
large tracheae or windpipes within the body of the animal,
and maintains the principle of life. When the tails are
below the surface, they occasionally emit small bubbles of
air, which are visible to the naked eye; and immediately are
extended to the surface for fresh supplies."
" So anxious is Nature to provide animals, in every state
of their existence, with air, that, after the transformation
of many insects into chrvsalids, she creates instruments for
that purpose, which did not exist previous to their transfor-
mation. The rat-tailed worms, formerly mentioned, soon
after they are transformed into chrvsalids, instead of a soft
pliable skin, are covered with a hard, crustaceous substance,
seemingly impervious to the air; and the tail, which was the
windpipe of the animal in its first state, gradually vanishes.
In a few hours, however, four hollow horns, shoot out, two
from the fore, and two from the hind part of what was the
head of the animal. These horns, which are hard and tubu-
lar, are discovered to be real windpipes, destined for the
136 PHRENOLOGY.
introduction of air into the chrysalis, a state in which the
animals have the appearance of being almost totally dead,
and, of course, would seem to have little use for respiration.
It is likewise discovered, that these horns, which pierced
the hard exterior covering, terminate in as many tracheee
in the body of the animal. This fact affords a strong exam-
ple of the necessity of air for sustaining the principle of life,
even in its lowest condition. After these animals pass from
the chrysalis state to that of flies, they are deprived both
of their tails and horns. But Nature, in this last stage of
their existence, has not left them without proper resources
for the introduction of air into their bodies. Instead of pro-
tuberant trachese in the form of tails or horns, they now,
like other flies, receive air by means of stigmata, or holes,
variously disposed over different parts of the body."
M Land-snails, at the approach of winter, bury them-
selves in the earth, or retire into the holes of rocks, or of
old buildings, where they remain in a torpid state during
the severity of the season. For protection and warmth,
these animals, when they go into their winter habitations,
form by means of a slime that issues from every pore in
their bodies, a membranous cover, which stops up the
mouths of their shells. But this pallice or cover, though
apparently pretty hard and solid, is so thin and porous as
not entirely to exclude the entrance of air, without which
the principle of life could not be continued. Accordingly,
when by accident the pallice is made too thick, and prevents
a communication with the external air, the animal, to remedy
the evil, makes a small aperture in its cover. In this state
snails remain six or seven months, without food or motion,
till the general warmth of the spring breaks their slumbers,
and calls forth their active powers. Hence it would appear,
that air is more immediately necessary to the preservation
of animal life than food itself; for, in numberless instances,
PNE UM ATI V ENE S S. 137
animals can live, not for days or weeks, but for months,
without supplies of nourishment. None of them, however,
are capable of existing nearly so long without having some
communication with the air.
" With regard to the snails that live in fresh water, or in
the ocean, the species of which are numerous, their man-
ner of respiring is singular. All of them have an aper-
ture on the right side of the neck, through which they res-
pire. They are frequently observed to straighten the ori-
fice of this aperture, to stretch it out in the form of an
oblong tube, and, in this state, they rise to the surface, in
order to expel the former air, and take in a new supply.
"But, though air seems to be an indispensable principle
of animal life, yet many animals can live longer without the
use of this element, or at least with smaller quantities of it,
than others. Those animals which lie torpid during the
winter, as the hedgehog, the dormouse, the marmot, &c,
though perhaps not entirely deprived of all communication
with the air, exist with only an occasional and interrupted
respiration till the heat of the spring restores their wonted
powers of life, when a full respiration becomes again equally
necessary as before their torpor commenced."
" The presence of air is as necessary to the life of plants
as to that of animals. They have a respiration carried on
by means of their leaves, which consumes in the same way
the oxygen of the atmosphere, and exhales, instead of it,
carbonic acid.
" When placed in an exhausted receiver, the air contained
in every part of their substance, is soon extracted; and, in
proportion as this air is likewise pumped out by the machine,
the flowers and leaves show evident symptoms of debility;
they become flaccid, pendulous, and assume a sickly ap-
pearance; and, if retained in that situation a certain length
of time, their vegetating powers are irrecoverably extin-
guished. 12
138 PHRENOLOGY.
" Upon the whole, as the air we continually breathe is
liable to be impregnated with exhalations from every sub-
stance to which it has access, the great importance of atten-
tion to its purity, is an obvious reflection. In building towns
or houses, the situation in regard to air, is a capital object.
The vicinity of marshes, of stagnating waters, of manufac-
tures of tallow, oil, sal-ammoniac, the smelting or corroding
of metals of every kind, and many other operations which
contaminate the air, should be either avoided or removed,
as they are the pests of our senses, and the poisoners of
our constitutions. Even in northern climates, houses sur-
rounded with trees, or in the neighborhood of luxuriant vege-
tables, are always damp, and infected with insects; and
hence the ambient air is replete with the seeds of disease.
Precautions of this kind are still more necessary in hot cli-
mates. Air absorbs a greater or less proportion of the par-
ticles of bodies, according to its degree of heat. In Madrid,
however, in Constantinople, and in many other cities of
warm regions, the houses are crowded together, the streets
are narrow, and covered with filth of every kind. We can-
not, therefore, be surprised, that human beings, existing
in such situations, should be so frequently infected with pes-
tilential diseases.
Dr. Hoppe of Copenhagen, was the first to show that the
part situated before the ear, was related to food; he thought
it bestowed on those who had it large, an exquisite taste, and
an inclination to indulge intemperately; but Dr. Spurzheim,
with great propriety, made a distinction between the pro-
pensity to eat, and the perception of the quality of food;
and named the part which Dr. Hoppe discovered, Alimen-
tiveness. If I am correct in regard to Pneumativeness, the
convolutions before the ear must be divided, and what has
been considered the front and lower part of Alimentiveness,
is the organ of Pneumativeness.
P NEUM ATI V E NES S. 139
I have already shown that there is an organ of Chemi-
cality, the office of which is to judge of the qualities of air
and food, and which is therefore, intimately related both to
Pneumativeness and Alimentiveness; and accordingly we
find it situated so as to come into immediate contact with
the organs of both these propensities. (See plate, base of
the brain.) The organ of Language also, is adjoining Pneu-
mativeness; and this is in agreement with the relation which
exists between the lungs and the powers of expression. Sir
Charles Bell has demonstrated that the nerves of Respira-
tion are the organs of expression, " from the smile upon
the infant cheek, to the last agony of life.*
7
He says, "those
are not the organs of breathing merely, but of natural and
articulate language. I shall refer to this subject again when
speaking of Natural Language.
Pneumativeness is generally small on those who are con-
tented to follow sedentary employments, and are indifferent
to the muscular exercises which give action to the lungs,
but it is large on those who are remarkably fond of hunting
and riding, horses and dogs, and all those circumstances
which excite the respiratory system. I find that some per-
sons have been in the habit of sleeping with their heads
covered, particularly when young; while others never could
endure the thought, but insist upon having their dormi-
tories thoroughly ventilated; and some always sleep with
the windows of their rooms open so that they can inhale the
pure air freely. Whenever I enter a crowded assembly, I
find that those who manifest the greatest degree of uneasi-
ness on account of the state of the air, have large Pneuma-
tiveness. I find it generaliy large on our Indians, and this
agrees with their proverbial fondness for muscular exercise,
hunting, running &c, and their aversion to sedentary em-
ployments. It is larger in the people of Great Britain than
in the natives of Italy; and in the inhabitants of the north-
140 PHRENOLOGY.
ern, than the southern parts of the United States. It gene-
rally characterizes those who are remarkable for their rest-
lessness, and bodily industry; it is smaller on persons of ner-
vous and delicate constitutions, and on children who are diffi-
cult to raise on account of their puny, unhealthy habits.
II. ALIMENT1VENESS.
" Give us this day our daily bread."
This is the propensity to take food and drink. The new
born infant, the most helpless of all creatures, without any
previous teaching, makes the requisite exertions to obtain
aliment; and it is evidently impelled to do so by a power
inherent in its nature. This propensity is absolutely ne-
cessary to animals, even in the first hours of existence; and
they manifest it then in as much perfection as they do after
years of experience. Many instances are on record in
which this propensity has been diseased, while the others
were in health. Plutarch relates that Brutus, after the death
of Cfesar, when advancing to the attack of a city, was seized
with such an irresistible desire to eat, that he was obliged
to halt three days to recover. Medical books contain nu-
merous reports of cases, which establish beyond all doubt
the existence of this propensity, and all authors now agree
in referring it to the brain. Dr. Andrew Combe, physi-
cian to the King of Belgium, in his admirable work on the
Physiology of Digestion, makes the following appropriate
remarks:
"The sensation of hunger is commonly referred to the
stomach, and that of thirst to the upper part of the throat
ALIMENTI V E N ESS. 141
and back of the mouth; and correctly enough to this extent,
that a certain condition of the stomach and throat tends to
produce them. But, in reality, the sensations themselves,
like all other mental affections and emotions, have their seat
in the brain, to which a sense of the condition of the stomach
is conveyed through the medium of the nerves. In this
respect, Appetite resembles the senses of Seeing, Hearing,
and Feeling; and no greater difficulty attends the explana-
tion of the one than of the others. Thus, the cause which
excites the sensation of color, is certain rays of light stri-
king upon the nerve of the eye; and the cause which ex-
cites the perception of sound, is the atmospherical vibra-
tions striking upon the nerve of the ear; but the sensations
themselves take place in the brain, to which, as the organ
of the mind, the respective impressions are conveyed. In
like manner, the cause which excites appetite is an impres-
sion made on the nerves of the stomach; but the feeling
itself is experienced in the brain, to which that impression
is conveyed. Accordingly, just as in health no sound is
ever heard except when the external vibrating atmosphere
has actually impressed the ear, and no color is perceived
unless an object be presented to the eye, —so is appetite
never felt, except where, from want of food, the stomach is
in that state which forms the proper stimulus to its nerves,
and where the communication between it and the brain is
left free and unobstructed.
" But as in certain morbid states of the brain and nerves,
voices and sounds are heard, or colors and objects are seen,
when no external cause is present to act upon the ear or
eye,—so, in disease, a craving is often felt when no real
want of food exists, and where, consequently, indulgence
in eating can be productive of nothing but mischief. Such
an aberration is common in nervous and mental diseases,
and not unfrequently adds greatly to their severity and ob-
12*
142 PHRENOLOGY.
stinacy. In indolent, unemployed persons, who spend their
days in meditating on their own feelings, this craving is
very common, and from being regarded and indulged as if
it were healthy appetite, is productive of many dyspeptic
affections.*
" If the correctness of the preceding explanation of the
sensation of hunger be thought to stand in need of confirma-
tion, I would refer to the very conclusive experiments by
Brachet of Lyons, as setting the question entirely at rest.
Brachet starved a dog for twenty-four hours, till it became
ravenously hungry, after which he divided the nerves which
convey to the brain a sense of the condition of the stomach.
He then placed food within its reach, but the animal, which
a moment before was impatient to be fed, went and lay
quietly down, as if hunger had never been experienced.
When meat was brought close to it, it began to eat; and,
apparently from having no longer any consciousness of the
state of its stomach—whether it was full or empty—it con-
tinued to eat till both it and the gullet were inordinately disten-
ded. In this, however, the dog was evidently impelled solely
by the gratification of the sense of taste; for on removing the
food at the beginning of the experiment to the distance of
even a few inches, it looked on with indifference, and made
no attempt either to follow the dish or to prevent its removal.
"Precisely similar results ensued when the nervous com-
munication between the stomach and brain was arrested by
the administration of narcotics."
"These results demonstrate, beyond the possibility of
doubt, the necessity of a free nervous communication be-
tween the stomach and brain, for enabling us to experience
the sensation of hunger. The connexion between the two
organs is, indeed, more widely recognized in practice than
* Dyspepsia (from the Greek words dys, bad, and pepto, I concoct)
is synonymous with indigestion.
ALIMENTIVENES8. 143
it is in theory; for it is a very common custom with the
Turks to use opium for abating the pangs of hunger when
food is not to be had, and sailors habitually use tobacco for
the same purpose. Both substances act exclusively on the
nervous system.
" The relation thus shown to subsist between the stomach
and the brain, enables us, in some measure, to understand
the influence which mental emotion and earnest intellectual
occupation exert over the appetite. A man in perfect health,
sitting down to table with an excellent appetite, receives a
letter announcing an unexpected calamity, and instantly
turns away with loathing from the food which, a moment
before, he was prepared to eat with relish; while another,
who, under the fear of some misfortune, comes to table in-
different about food, will eat with great zest on his " mind
being relieved," as the phrase goes, by the receipt of plea-
sing intelligence. In such cases, no one will imagine that
the calamity destroys the appetite otherwise than through
the medium of the brain. Sometimes the feeling of loathing
and disgust is so intense, as not only to destroy appetite,
but to induce sickness and vomiting,—a result which de-
pends so closely on the state of the brain, that it is often
induced even by mechanical injuries of that organ.
" The analogy between the external senses and the appe-
tite is, in various respects, very close. If we are apt in study,
or intent on any scheme, we become insensible to impres-
sions made on the ear or eye. A clock may strike, or a per-
son enter the room, without our being aware of either event.
The same is the case with appetite. If the mind is deeply
engaged, the suggestions of appetite are unperceived and
unattended to—as was well exemplified in the instance of
Sir Isaac Newton, who, from seeing the bones of a chicken
lying before him, fancied that he had already dined, where-
as, in reality, he had eaten nothing for many hours. Hero-
144 PHRENOLOGY.
dotus ascribes so much efficacy to mental occupation in
deadening the sense of hunger, that he speaks of the inhabi-
tants of Lydia having successfully had recourse to gaming
as a partial substitute for food, during a famine of many
years' continuance. In this account there is, of course,
gross exaggeration; but it illustrates sufficiently well the
principle under discussion."
"Appetite, it ought to be observed, may, like other sen-
sations, be educated or trained to considerable deviations
from the ordinary standard of quantity and quality—and
this obviously for the purpose of enabling man to live in dif-
ferent climates and under different circumstances, and avoid
being fixed down to one spot and to one occupation. In civi-
lized life, however, we are accustomed to take undue advan-
tage of this capability, by training the appetite to desire a
greater quantity of food than what the wants of the system
require, and stimulating its cravings by a system of cookery
little in harmony with the intentions of nature. But this is
evidently an abuse, and no argument whatever against the
sufficiency of its natural indications to lead us right.
" The most common source, however, of the errors into
which we are apt to fall in taking appetite as our only guide,
is unquestionably the confounding of appetite with taste, and
continuing to eat for the gratification of the latter, long
after the former is satisfied. In fact, the whole science of
a skillful cook is expended in producing this willing mistake
on our part; and he is considered decidedly the best artiste
whose dishes shall recommend themselves most irresistibly
to the callous palate of the gourmand, and excite on it such
a sensation as shall at least remind him of the enviable ex-
cellence of a natural appetite. If we were willing to limit
the office of taste to its proper sphere, and to cease eating
when appetite expressed content, indigestion would be a
much rarer occurrence in civilized communities than it is
observed to be.
ALIMEXTIVENESS. 145
" Viewed, then, in its proper light, appetite is to be regard-
ed as kindly implanted in our nature for the express end of
proportioning the supply of nourishment to the wants of the
system; and if ever it misleads us, the fault is not in its un-
fitness for its object, but in the artificial training which it re-
ceives at our own hands. When we attend to its real dic-
tates, we eat moderately, and at such intervals of time as
the previous exercise and other circumstances render ne-
cessary; and in so doing, we reap a reward in the daily en-
joyment of the pleasure which attends the gratification of
healthy appetite. But if we err, either by neglecting the
timely warning which it gives, or by eating more than the
system requires, mischief is sure to follow. In the former
case, waste continues to make progress till the body becomes
exhausted; and in almost exact proportion do the cravings
of appetite become more and more intense, till they pass
into those of uncontrollable hunger, which overthrows all
obstacles, and seeks gratification at the risk of life itself. In
the latter case, indigestion, gloomy depression, and reple-
tion, with its concomitant evils, make their appearance, and
either imbitter or cut short existence.
" Mischief sometimes arises also from people not being
sufficiently aware, that, in common with other sensations,
appetite may be so far deranged by disease as to give very
incorrect and unnatural indications. It often happens, for
example, that a patient shivers and complains of cold, when
we know by the thermometer that the heat of the skin is
really above instead of below the natural standard. In like
manner, in some morbid states of the nervous system, a
craving is often felt which impels the patient to eat, but
which is not true hunger, and here food, if taken, is diges-
ted with great difficulty. Occasionally, on the other hand,
no desire for food is experienced when the system really
needs it, and when it would be digested with ease if intro-
146 PHRENOLOGY.
duced into the stomach. Esquirol alludes to cases of this de-
scription, and I have met with similar examples. Voisin
also mentions, that, in the Hospital of Incurables in Paris,
there are some idiots so low in the scale of intelligence as
to make no attempt to take the food which is placed before
them, although they eat and digest readily when fed by oth-
ers. Sometimes, again, appetite is depraved in quality,
and the patient desiderates the most nauseous and repulsive
kinds of food, such as earth, chalk, coals, and excrement.
There are states, too, in which the appetite is prodigiously
increased, and the patient consumes incredible quantities of
food, —which, however, are very imperfectly digested.
Charles Domery, for instance, when a French prisoner at
Liverpool, consumed in one day, four pounds of cow's
udder, and ten pounds of raw beef, with two pounds of tal-
low candles and five bottles of porter; and, although allowed
the daily rations of ten men, he was still not satisfied. Ba-
ron Percy speaks of another man, who ate twenty-four
pounds of beef in as many hours, and thought nothing of
swallowing a dinner prepared for fifteen German boors. I
once attended a patient who was afflicted with a similar inor-
dinate craving, and whose only pleasure was in eating. In
such cases no restraint except actual coercion is sufficient
to prevent indulgence; but the craving itself is as much the
product of disease as the shivering in the beginning of fever,
and can no more be removed by reasoning than the sensa-
tion of cold can be removed by telling a patient that his skin
is thermometrically warm. But these, being cases of dis-
ease, do not in any degree militate against the accuracy of
the exposition above given of the healthy uses of appetite."
"Strong presumptive evidence has been adduced, parti-
cularly by Brachet, to show that the p?ieu?nogastric* nerve
*From pneumon, a lung, and gaster, the stomach, or lung and
stomach nerve.
AL1MENTIVENESS. 147
is charged with the involuntary motions of the stomach, as
well as with the sense of its condition. Food being the natu-
ral stimulus of that organ, as light is of the eye, its presence
alone, without and even against the will, suffices to produce
the contraction of its muscular coat; and accordingly, the
more stimulating the food, the more rapid and vigorous is
the muscular contraction which it excites. So far, indeed,
do the stomachic nerves respond to their own stimuli, that,
if nauseous or other irritant and indigestible substances be
swallowed, the action of the muscular coat becomes so vio-
lent as to excite sympathetically the simultaneous contrac-
tion of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, to aid in their
immediate expulsion by vomiting; and this is the reason
why such substances are in common use as emetics.
" Magendie doubts whether these movements are in any
measure dependent upon nervous influence; but the fact of
their being so seems to be proved by the experiments of
Gemelin and Tidemann, who found them constantly produ-
ced when the pneumogastric nerve was irritated either by
the scalpel or by the contact of alcohol. Brachet, also, who
examined the subject with great care, obtained similar re-
sults; and the only plausible argument against their conclu-
siveness consists in the double function which seems thus to
be assigned to a single nerve—that of conveying to the
brain a sense of the state of the stomach, and that of im-
parting motion to its muscular fibres. Brachet, however,
turns this charge into an additional proof; for, on careful
dissection, it appears that the pneumogastric nerve is really
a compound of two distinct sets of fibres, intimately connec-
ted, no doubt, in structure and in function, but each essen-
tially distinct in its origin, and so far fitted for a peculiar
office.
" When the pneumogastric or chief nerve of the stomach
is tied or cut through, and its ends separated so as to inter-
148 PHRENOLOGY.
rupt the flow of nervous energy towards that organ, diges-
tion is either entirely arrested or greatly impaired."
"It is true that the mode in which the nerve acts is not
yet ascertained, although the fact of its necessary co-opera-
tion is rarely disputed. As, however, the direction of a cur-
rent of galvanism to the cut end of the nerve next the
stomach suffices to re-establish digestion after that process
has been suspended by the interruption of the nervous influ-
ence consequent on its division, we may reasonably infer
that, in the healthy state, the nerve merely transmits to the
stomach a stimulus or energy generated for the purpose
either in the brain or in the spinal marrow and ganglia
that the nerve, in short, acts only as a conductor, and does
not originate the influence which it evidently imparts. In
several of Brachet's cases, indeed, as well as in those of
Tidemann, the continued irritation of the cut end of the
nerve proved sufficient to carry on digestion to a certain
point, by affording, in another way, the necessary stimulus
to the muscular contractions of the stomach: for in all these
experiments, digestion was found to have advanced almost
in exact proportion to the degree of admixture which had
been effected of the food with the gastric juice,—an admix-
ture now ascertained to be produced chiefly by the contrac-
tile power of the stomach itself." (
"The importance of the nervous agency in effecting di-
gestion has been denied, because we are not. conscious of the
presence of food in the stomach. But in health the want
of such consciousness is a privilege and not a defect; and it
has been admirably pointed out by Dr. Southwood Smith,
that in possessing, as we do, the distinct consciousness of a
pleasurable feeling in the stomach after indulging in a suita-
ble meal, we have all that is desirable for either utility or
enjoyment. If we were aware of the presence of every
portion of food which the stomach contained, and of the
ALIMENTIVENESS. 149
changes occurring in each, our attention would be so disa-
greeably and unprofitably taken up that we would pray to
be delivered from the annoyance. Where, however, from
disease or the food being inappropriate, the stomach is in-
jured by what is eaten, consciousness then becomes painful,
for the express purpose of warning us that mischief has
been done, and that we must take means for its removal."
All practical Phrenologists now admit the organ of Ali-
mentiveness, and consider it as established ; indeed the
amount of evidence in its favor is overwhelming. I have
generally found it large in Indians, however deficient they
were in other respects. I have found it, with Pneumative-
ness, large in all children remarkable for their robust and
healthy constitutions; those on the contrary who have it small,
are more liable to the diseases common to their age, and all
persons suffer more severely, and are less likely to recover
from debilitating diseases when this is small. Those who
are in the business of fattening stock, are aware, that long,
narrow headed animals, particularly swine, are much less
profitable than the wide chuckled heads. It is proper to re-
mark, that the quantity of food eaten does not depend alto-
gether upon Alimentiveness, but in part upon the size of the
stomach; thus the carniverous animals, that have small sto-
machs, though exceedingly voracious, eat a much smaller
quantity than the herbiverous. I have even thought that those
with large Alimentiveness eat less at once, but desire it oft-
ener and more intensely. Neither does this propensity enable
us to judge of the quality of food; this, as we have already
seen, depends upon the intellectual faculty of Chemicality.
I explain Alimentiveness thus;—when the body is in need
of nourishment, the nerves of the stomach are disagreeablv
impressed; this impression is conveyed to the organ of Ali-
mentiveness, and rouses it to action, producing the feeling
of hunger ; Alimentiveness communicates the excitement
13
150 PHRENOLOGY.
to the Intellectual organs, particularly Individuality, Chemi-
cality and Language; it has now complete control over the
intellect, and the attention is exclusively occupied with ideas
of food. If, when the mind and body are in this state, food
be placed before the individual, the nerves of smell and
taste immediately convey impressions to Chemicality, and
this organ perceives the quality of the food—if agreeable,
it is admitted into the stomach, and the nerves now convey
agreeable impressions to the brain; as soon however as the
stomach is filled, both agreeable and disagreeable impres-
sions cease to proceed from the stomach to Alimentiveness,
hunger is no longer felt, and the pleasure of eating is gone.
The causes which excited the organ being removed, it cea-
ses to goad the Intellectuals, and other objects and subjects
are permitted to occupy the attention. When we continue
to eat after hunger is appeased, merely because the food
has an agreeable flavour, the excess may be attributed to
Chemicality.
The effects of a very large organ of Alimentiveness will
now be easily understood; the proper office being, not to
judge of the quality, nor to regulate the quantity of food, but
to rouse the attention to such objects and subjects as are
adapted to its gratification. The abuse of Alimentiveness
consists in permitting the mind to be too easily and too often
excited by the stomach, and too long occupied with ali-
mentary ideas. To gratify this feeling, and allay the irri-
tation in the stomach, something which Chemicality ap-
proves is swallowed, but the feeling soon returns, and ano-
ther portion must be swallowed to allay again the nerves of
the stomach. Sometimes stimulating and narcotic substan-
ces, such as opium, alcohol, &c, are taken instead of food;
but it is a law of the animal constitution with which Physi-
ologists are all familiar, that when stimulating doses of any
ALIMEXT1 V EXES S. 151
kind are taken habitually, they must be increased in order
to produce the same effect.
Intemperance is principally the abuse of Alimentiveness.
It must be obvious to every Phrenologist, that a vice so
beastly in its nature, and so degrading and shocking to the
moral feelings, is related to one of the lowest propensities.
As soon as we admit that intemperance is the effect of the
too great influence of this organ, and that a Phrenologist
can, by examination, determine a person's disposition in this
respect, the subject immediately assumes great importance
to the cause of temperance, and becomes deeply interesting
to every philanthropist.
I find the organ larger in the heads of our American In-
dians than in those of any other race; the prominence of
the cheek bones, which has been considered one of the
peculiarities of their features, is in a great measure caused
by Alimentiveness and Pneumativeness. I do not wish to be
understood to assert that the prominence of these bones is
altogether owing to developement of brain, but it is certain
that their appearance is greatly modified by the manner in
which the anterior portion of the middle lobe is developed.
No trait of the Indian character is better known than their
intemperance; as soon as the " fire-water
? '
was introduced
among them, they became drunkards, and were ready to
sell every thing to produce the means of intoxication, for
which, (to use the language of a distinguished historian*)
they feel such an insatiable desire, as is not easy to conceive
or describe. This is their general character, although I am
aware there are some honorable exceptions. Their intem-
perance cannot be attributed to ignorance, for the Negroes,
although equally ignorant, are not equally intemperate. It
is undeniable that the Negroes in this country, are more
^Robertson.
152 PHRENOLOGY.
temperate than even the whites. Will it be believed that
the ignorant and half savage Negro, has more control over
his appetite, than the firm and dignified Indian, or the po-
lished white man? Neither can it be said that the difference
in the two races in this respect, is owing to the difference
in the general constitution; or in other words to the lympha-
tic temperament of the Negroes, and the arterial and venous
of the Indian; for we find the Negro manifesting some of
the lowest propensities in a much greater degree than the
Indian. Some of the most easily besetting sins of the Ne-
gro, the red-man is rarely tempted to commit, while in re-
gard to intemperance in drinking, no race on earth is more
unfortunate than the Indian, and none less so than the Negro.
I know many temperate Negroes, and I have observed that
when ordinary pains are taken with them, they seldom
become drunkards; but this cannot be said of the Indian:
when ardent spirits are within their reach, those who con-
tinue temperate are by no means numerous.
The generality of the lower classes of the Irish have a
larger developement of Alimentiveness than the same classes
of other Europeans; if we compare their heads in this re-
spect with those of the Italians, a decided difference may be
remarked, and in this country, the practice of getting intoxi-
cated is much more prevalent among them than any other
foreigners. Alimentiveness is one of those organs which
are comparatively smaller in the female head than the male;
and the fact that women are more temperate than men. has
always been admitted; but it has been explained by the dif-
ference in their circumstances. No judicious Phrenologist
will overlook the influence of circumstances in producing dif-
ference of character, but when he finds it connected with a
difference in the organization of the brain, he will reasona-
bly suspect that the force of circumstances is only a secon-
dary cause in producing the effect. The moment the intoxi-
A LI ME NT I V E N ESS. 153
eating draught is placed within the reach of the Indian, he
seizes it, and without waiting for the influence of any other
circumstances, he becomes a drunkard at once; while our
females continue through their whole lives to use it judi-
ciously. In the very few instances in which I have found
our native Anglo American females notoriously intempe-
rate, I have also invariably found an extraordinary deve-
lopement of Alimentiveness in their heads, and a very ac-
tive temperament. Another observation which confirms
these views, is, that the children of the intemperate parent
follow his example when they resemble him in conslitution,
much more frequently than when they resemble the tempe-
rate parent. I have observed for instance, that when an in-
temperate man has a large family of children, some of them
would resemble him in temperament, and in the configura-
tion of their heads; while others of them would resemble
their mother; and those who resembled the father, followed
in his footsteps, while those who resembled the mother,
much more frequently avoided the fatal practices of the
father. Now, in these cases, the influence of circumstances
independent of the constitution, are certainly as nearly equal
as they can ever be; and therefore the difference in character
must be referred to organization.
What is generally understood by intemperance, is the ex-
cessive use of alcohol. It is curious to enquire into the
nature and origin of a substance which possesses such an
unconquerable charm over the human mind. It is popular
to speak of it as entirely artificial, because obtained by art;
but this is not strictly true, since alcohol is only separated
from sugar, by depriving it of a part of its carbon. There
is no known substance besides sugar, from which alcohol
can be obtained. When extracted from grain, it is by first
changing the grain into sugar, by a process called saca-
rine fermentation, and then changing the sugar into alco-
13*
154 PHRENOLOGY.
hol, by another process called vinous fermentation; there-
fore, sugar may be said to be artificial, with as much pro-
priety as alcohol. It has been found by the experiments of
the most celebrated chemists, that the largest part of grain
is starch; according to Sir H. Davy, 70 parts in 100 of
wheat are starch. Sausure ascertained that 100 pounds of
starch produced 100 pounds of sugar; and he thinks that
sugar is merely starch combined with water. He also found
that 100 parts of sugar was composed of 58 parts of alco-
hol and 36 carbonic acid; and that the manufacture of alco-
hol, consists in expelling from sugar the carbonic acid which
it contains. These facts seem to demonstrate conclusively,
that alcohol is not formed artificially, but exists in grain
as one of its proximate elements; and that the process of
fermentation and distillation only extract or separate it from
its natural combinations. This view of the nature of alco-
hol, enables us to understand the source of its wonderful
power over the mind, as it evidently possesses, in a concen-
trated form, all the adaptation to the nerves of the stomach
that the sugar or grain did, from which it is derived, with-
out being combined with other substances to prevent its too
great stimulating effects. While this explanation enables
us to understand the mystery of intemperance, it affords no
argument in its justification; on the contrary, it shows that
it is an unnatural perversion of one of the choicest blessings
of life, and affords another illustration of the truth that
" There's not a blessing heaven vouchsafes to man.
But his own folly may turn it to a curse."
S A N I T A T I V E X E S S. 1 55
III. SANITATIVENESS.
infirmity doth still neglect all office
Whereunto our health is bound: we are not ourselves
When nature, being- oppressed, commands the mind
To suffer with the body. Shakespeare.
This is the propensity to preserve the bodily constitution
from injury. When disagreeably affected, it produces the
feeling of bodily pain; and when agreeably affected it com-
municates a feeling of bodily ease. The design of the Crea-
tor in bestowing it, is evidently to protect the organic struc-
ture of animals from the thousand injuries that " flesh is
heir to." No propensity is more universally, or more
plainly manifested, and next to Pneumativeness and Ali-
mentiveness, none is so essential to the preservation of exis-
tence. Were it not for this, animals would sacrifice their
limbs and even their lives, without making an effort to save
them. The lower animals do not protect their bodies from
injury because they understand the importance of health
and vigor; they do not by reasoning infer that wounds
will endanger life, or disqualify them for the enjoyment of
happiness, any more than they do that abstinence from food,
or air, will be fatal; but they are endowed with this propen-
sity, which impels them to avoid bodily injury. Just as the
feeling of suffocation is the effect of Pneumativeness, when
roused by the wrong condition of the lungs, and the feeling
of hunger is the effect of Alimentiveness, when roused by
a wrong condition of the stomach; precisely so is the feeling
of bodily pain the effect of Sanitativeness, when roused by
*From the Latin sanatas—health, or soundness of the body.
156 PHRENOLOGY.
a wrong condition of the organic structure of the body. The
principal difference is, that Pneumativeness or Alimentive-
ness is excited only by one appropriate bodily organ; but
Sanitativeness is capable of being excited by any part, how-
ever remote, or minute, whenever it may be in such a con-
dition as to require the special attention of the mind. It is
worthy of remark, that the nerves of sensation are most
plentifully supplied to those parts that are most exposed to
injury. The term pain, should be applied only to corporeal
pain; but it has two popular significations; in its most enlar-
ged meaning, it comprises all unpleasant sensations; thus
hunger, suffocation, pity and fear, are said to be painful;
but this is figurative language, which originated in the fact
that the disagreeable affection of Sanitativeness is of all
others the most dreadful. There is no more phrenological
propriety in applying the term pain to hunger, or fear, or
disappointment, than there is in applying the term hunger to
a desire for knowledge. When the stomach is empty, Ali-
mentiveness is roused, and hunger is felt—when food is
taken, hunger is removed,—if too much food is taken the
organic structure of the stomach becomes injured; this rou-
ses Sanitativeness, and pain is felt until the injury is repaired.
The same principle will apply to every other part of the
body; whatever the functions may be, if they are performed
without injury to the organization, no pain is felt, though
there may be other disagreeble feelings experienced. Cor-
poreal pain is, therefore, in every respect analogous to the
disagreeable affections of the other propensities; and re-
sults from Sanitativeness just as hunger does from Alimen-
tiveness, anger from Destructiveness, or fear from Cau-
tiousness. It is now obvious why pain is forgotten when
other more powerful feelings predominate. A wounded
man seeing a robber about to escape with his property, is
so attentive to ideas of Acquisitiveness, Cautiousness, and
S ANI T A TI V ENES S. 157
Combativcness, that he is temporarily unconscious of his
pain. The explanation of tire propensity also affords an
easy answer to the question so often asked, why a Creator
of infinite goodness permitted the existence of pain; and it
will be perceived that it is itself the strongest evidence both
of wisdom and goodness. It is like the garment that an
affectionate parent throws around a tender child; though it
may sometimes be uncomfortable, it is kindly intended for
its protection.
My attention was directed to this organ in the following
manner:—I had in my lectures been in the habit of stating
that those organs which are most necessary at any particu-
lar age, are most developed at that age. I also stated that
the organ of Destructiveness was larger in infants than
adults. To this, some of my friends objected, that there
seemed to be no necessity for children to have a large Des-
tructiveness, at a time when their weak, helpless condition
rendered it impossible for them to destroy any thing. 1 was
unable to explain this apparent inconsistency, and resort-
ed to my usual practice of accurate observation, with the
hope to find some explanation. I found that in most infants
Pneumativeness, Alimentiveness, and Destructiveness were
very large; and that the under part of Destructiveness was
even so large as to cause the ears to stand out from the
head. One da)'-, at a public table, I saw a child with Des-
tructiveness very prominent, and whenever the mother neg-
lected to fill its mouth, nothing could exceed the rage mani-
fested by the hungry infant; it kicked, scratched, and scream-
ed, to the annoyance of every one in the room; refusing
all consolation until its appetite was satisfied; and then all
was peace and quiet—the smile mounted its features, and
chased away the scowl, and the crowing laugh of joy as-
sumed the place of the scream of rage. This led to other
observations of a similar kind, which explained, in the most
158 PHRENOLOGY.
satisfactory manner the necessity of Destructiveness to chil-
dren, combined with Alimentiveness. This seemed to be
confirmed by the fact that the organ of Alimentiveness joins
Destructiveness, and the convolutions of the two organs run
into each other. It was then objected, that children mani-
fest the same degree of anger when in pain, as they do
when hungry; and if the continuation of the convolution of
Alimentiveness into Destructiveness proved any thing, it
proved that there should also be an organ of pain, conti-
nued into it in the same manner. This suggestion seemed
plausible, and induced me to look for an organ of pain, par-
ticularly in infants, from the fact that when born they mani-
fest but three feelings, viz: suffocation, hunger, and pain.
I was fully convinced that the organ must be at the base of
the brain—that it is a propensity—an Ipseal—that it must
join Destructiveness—that in the order of arrangement it is
preceded by Pneumativeness and Alimentiveness—that it
comes before Destructiveness, and is manifested by animals.
According to my classification of the organs, these con-
clusions were inevitable. There was but one question re-
maining—is the organ so situated that it can be discovered
by an external prominence? In examining the brain, I had
always noticed a convolution under Destructiveness, and
running parallel with it, which, if large must give width to
the head under Destructiveness, and throw out the ears,
giving prominence to the muscles on the sides of the neck,
just as Amativeness does on the back of it. All my con-
jectures were now directed to this convolution as the organ.
This harmonized with the appearance of infants' heads
which I had observed. It also called to recollection many
instances in which pain had been powerfully expressed by
those suffering from wounds; and as near as I could remem-
ber they were large in this place. I proceeded to examine,
question, and compare individuals, until I became satisfied
SAN1TATIVENESS. 159
that my conjectures were well founded. I think the organ
is smaller in women than in men, and accounts for the appa-
rent firmness with which they endure pain; they are more
apprehensive before it comes, and are more easily affected
by it, but they do not surfer as intensely, nor express it as
forcibly, and can bear it with more patience than man. I
find, as a general rule, this organ is larger the more vigor-
ous and robust the constitution. It is larger in the carnive-
rous than in the herbiverous animals. It is larger in chil-
dren than in adults. It would, however, be obviously un-
philosophical to name it the organ of pain; as this is only
the disagreeable affection of a propensity, the proper grati-
fication of which, yields the opposite feeling, which is de-
nominated bodily ease. The proper inquiry is, what was
the design of the Creator in bestowing this propensity? and
this naturally brings us to the conclusion that it is the organ
of Sanitativeness, or the propensity to protect and preserve
the integrity of the bodily constitution, to prevent disease,
and injury, and destruction. Children, and animals, igno-
rant of this design, make use of it instinctively, when roused
by the feeling of pain, which it produces when disagreeably
affected. If these views of pain are correct, the opinion of
the poet, that the beetle which we tread upon,
u ln corporal suffering, finds
A pang as great as when a giant dies."
may be again revived; notwithstanding the belief of Physi-
ologists that the pain which an animal suffers is in pro-
portion to the number and developement of his sensitive
nerves. It must be remembered that the nerves do not
feel, but only convey impressions' of those irritations, the
consciousness of which constitutes pain ; in order, there-
fore, to ascertain the intensity of sufferings, we must either
ascertain the size of Sanitativeness, or judge by the energy
with which it is manifested. The uncommon developement
160 PHRENOLOGY.
of nerves, only indicate that the parts to which they are
distributed, are sensible to a slight impression, but they do
not indicate the intensity of feeling.
REMARKS ON THE CORPOREAL RANGE.
In examining individuals, and especially children, I al-
ways look at this range first, because so much depends upon
it. Health, vigor, endurance, and even longevity are in a
great measure to be accounted for by its influence. I do not
assert positively that health is caused by the influence of this
Range; I only state that which I do know, that the bodily
constitutions of children are seldom strong and vigorous
when this Range is small; they are more weak and slender,
and liable to fall victims to the many changes which their
constitutions must undergo in their progress from infancy
to maturity. In adults also, I find health and energy of
constitution much less to be depended upon when this Range
is deficient. I frequently find a person with a large Corpo-
real Range sustaining himself in health and vigor, under
circumstances which would be fatal to those who have it
small; such persons are said to possess wonderful elasticity
of constitution; they rise sometimes from beds of sickness,
from which hope had long since fled; and they pass com-
paratively unscathed through the various dangers to which
different ages, sexes, climates, and occupations, render them
liable. In those instances in which 1 have found this Range
moderate, accompanied with health and vigor, I have found
an excellent temperament compensating for the deficiency;
but I never found health and vigor when both .the Corpo-
real Range, and the Arterial System, are less than medium.
This shows the great importance of attending to tempera-
REMARKS. 161
ment, when pronouncing opinions in practical Phrenology;
particularly the arterial temperament. Phrenologists have
not attached sufficient importance to the influence of the
arterial system, upon the brain and nervous system. The
following facts will show that no correct opinion can be
formed without estimating the state and quantity of the arte-
rial blood.
1st. The experiments of Le Galois, and others, prove that
the brain and nerves cannot act a single moment without
being impressed by the arterial blood, and
2d. On the other hand the heart cannot contract so as to
send the blood to the brain, unless it is excited by the nerves;
so that the arterial and nervous systems are mutually de-
pendent upon each other.
3d. The amount of blood which the brain requires, un-
der ordinary circumstances, is, by all authors, admitted to
be not less than four times greater than any other part of
equai bulk, and some estimate it nearly twice that amount.
4th. The amount of blood which the brain requires is in
proportion to its size.
5th. When the brain is much excited, either by thought
or passion, it requires more blood than when exercised
in an ordinary manner.
6th. Those parts of the brain which are most exercised,
receive more blood than those which are inactive.*
7th. Any changes which take place in the quality of the
blood, have a greater effect upon the brain than any other
part of the constitution.
8th. The quantity and quality of blood depends upon
digestion, and respiration, and these depend upon Pneuma-
tiveness and Alimentiveness.
*When one of the larger organs are very much excited, the uncom-
mon quantity of blood which it receives causes the head to feel warm
externally, and thus, in some cases, becomes a guide to the practical
phrenologist; in some instances this warmth is supposed to cause the
hsir to fall out. 14
162 PHRENOLOGY.
These facts enable us to understand, why those persons
who have a moderate Corporeal Range, do not suffer so
severely when they have a good dvelopement of the arte-
rial system, as when they are deficient in this respect. It
also explains many other difficult subjects connected with
phrenology. If from disease, or unwholesome air, or diet,
the blood becomes reduced in quantity, or quality, it is ob-
vious that the brain cannot be impressed by it in such a
manner as to call forth all its energies. A person, there-
fore, who has a small brain, may, when favored with a
good temperament, manifest a more powerful mind, than
one who has a large brain with an unfavorable temperament.
Those occupations, or situations, or climates, or atmos-
pheres, or diets, or habits, or constitutions, or diseases, that
disqualify the blood for its office, affect the mind injuriously.
The student who has a large brain, and a very large
forehead, and who spends his days and nights in improving
his mind, while he neglects the exercise and nourishment
of his body, is taking the most efficient means to undermine
the very foundation of the temple which he is so ambitious
to perfect and adorn.
INTERNAL SENSES.
These are the nerves that convey impressions from the
internal bodily organs, to their appropriate propensities in
the brain. Thus, Pneumativeness, Alimentiveness, and
Sanitativeness, of the Ipseals, and Amativeness and Paren-
tiveness, of the Socials, are each capable of being excited
to the highest degree, when the bodily organs to which they
are severally related, are in want of their peculiar enjoy-
ments. The secretion of milk in the breast, irritates certain
INTERNAL SE N S E S. 163
nerves which convey the impressions to Parentiveness and
rouse it to action. The secretion of the gastric juice, irri-
tates certain nerves of the stomach which convey impres-
sions to Alimentiveness; in the same manner every organ
when irritated in a peculiar manner, communicates an im-
pression to the brain by means of some nerve, and rouses
the appropriate propensity, to relieve disagreeable sensa-
tions, or to continue agreeable ones. The nerves of the
internal senses are so concealed from observation, that the
most skillful anatomist cannot trace them with certainty;
this accounts for the fact, that so very few, besides profes-
sional men, are acquainted even with the existence of such
senses. The obscurity of this subject may be inferred from
the fact that Sir Charles Bell denied that the nerves of the
middle column conveyed any sensation whatever, and at-
tempted to show by experiment, that they were all devoted
to respiratory motions. But Professor Reid, of Edinburgh,
has succeeded in completely overturning Bell's theory of
respiration, so far as it is opposed to Phrenology, by experi-
ments which are minutely detailed in the Electic Journal of
Medicine of June, 1838; and which were performed in pre-
sence of Professors Allison and Sharpy, of the London Uni-
versity, to their entire satisfaction. The assertion, therefore,
of Sir Charles Bell, that "the middle column stops short in the
medulla oblongata, being in function independent of reason,
and capable of its office independent of the brain,'
7
is erro-
neous. So far as Bell's theory is opposed to my classifica-
tion, it has been disproved by the experiments of Brachet
and Reid; but so far as it is in agreement, it has been uni-
versally admitted. The truth is, Sir Charles Bell commit-
ted a great error, when he adapted the notion of Willis, that
the cerebellum is related to the posterior spinal column, and
presides over sensation; and that the cerebrum is related to
the anterior column, and presides over volition; and in order
164 PHRENOLOGY, j
to carry out this notion, he was obliged to make the middle
column stop short in the medulla oblongata. If my views
are correct, the anterior, middle and posterior divisions of
the brain, medulla oblongata, and spinal cord, are related to
the three Classes of mental powers, Ipseal, Social and Intel-
lectual.
CARNIVEROUS RANGE.
IV. DESTRUCTIVENESS.
Kill and eat. Acts.
In a world like this, where death is making continual
havoc, so that every moment a human being falls a victim
to disease or violence; and where animals are compelled by
uncontrollable instinct to prey upon each other; how misera-
ble should we be, without a certain degree of this much
abused and slandered propensity. It not only bestows a
disposition to break, rend, tear, wound and disorganize,
but gives pleasure in the silent contemplation of destruction
m which the individual takes no part, except in imagina-
tion. It enables a person to listen with composure, and
even with a kind of satisfaction, to accounts of violent treat-
ment, in which his better feelings would have prevented him
from participating. When this organ was first announced,
it was called the organ of murder; and a thrill of horror was
excited at the very suggestion, that the Creator had bestow-
ed upon all mankind a propensity, which characterizes
tigers and murderers. Dr. Gall himself, when he first
noticed the resemblance between the heads of murderers and
carniverous animals, recoiled from the conclusion to which
it naturally seemed to tend; he says, " I revolted from this
DESTRUCTIVE NESS. 165
idea; but when my only business was to observe, and to
state the result of my observation, I acknowledged no other
law than truth."' It was afterwards ascertained to be the
propensity of destruction in general, which, when properly
governed, is absolutely necessary to the preservation of
human existence, and conducive to general happiness. In
carniverous animals, its utility is obvious; since they can
only obtain their appropriate food by its exercise; but some
persons deny that man is, by nature, in any degree a car-
niverous animal—that he thrives best upon vegetable food
exclusively, and that therefore Destructiveness in him is
unnecessary. But even admitting that man is not naturally
carniverous, still, Destructiveness is absolutely necessary
to prevent the unhappy feelings which the sight of misery
and death would otherwise occasion to benevolent minds.
This is proved by the distress of some persons, particularly
females, at the sight of violence, and even at its recital. The
poet Cowper, gives expression to this feeling, when he says,
" My heart is sick
My ear is pained, with every day's report
Of wrong and outrage."
The organization of Cowper forms a perfect contrast in
this respect with that of Byron, who manifests Destructive-
ness in almost every one of his poems, in an extraordinary
manner. His Dream of Darkness, could not have been con-
ceived, except by a mind intensely imbued with this propen-
sity. It seems as if his powerful intellect was inspired by
the pure spirit of Destructiveness. His imagination soared
far beyond common deeds of destruction, and revelled in
the contemplation of universal devastation and death:
" The bright sun was extinguished, and the stars
Did wander darkling in the eternal space,
Rayless, and pathless, and the icy earth
Swung blind and blackening in the moonless air.
# * * * * #
14*
166 PHRENOLOGY.
A fearful hope was all the world contained:
Forests were set on fire; but, hour by hour,
They fell and faded, and the crackling trunks
Extinguished with a crash, and all was black.
And War, which for a moment was no more,
Did glut himself again—a meal was bought
With blood, and each sat sullenly apart,
Gorging himself in gloom: no love was left;
All earth was but one thought—and that was death,
Immediate and inglorious; and men
Died, and their bones were tombJess as their flesh.
The world was void;
The populous and the powerful was a lump
Seasonless, herbless, treeless, manless, lifeless
A lump of death—a chaos of hard clay.
The rivers, lakes, and ocean, all stood still,
And nothing stirred within their silent depths;
Ships, sailorless, lay rotting on the sea;
And their masts fell down piecemeal; as they dropped,
They slept on the abyss without a surge:
The waves were dead; the tides were in their graves;
The moon, their mistress, had expired before;
The winds were withered in the stagnant air,
And the clouds perished; Darkness had no need
Of them; she was the universe."
This propensity is also necessary to enable men to des-
troy the reptiles and beasts of prey, which would otherwise
render the earth one vast den for their habitation; and man-
kind would become their prey until the human race was
extinct.
The feeling of anger, or wrath originates in this propensity,
and is, on many occasions, perfectly consistent with justice
and benevolence. The acts of oppression, fraud and cru-
elty, which wicked men are continually perpetrating, are
naturally calculated to excite the wrath of all good men; and
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 167
that they often " do well to be angry;" but when this feel-
ing is not regulated by justice, and kindness, (eighth and
tenth organs) it is denominated malice, revenge, or fury;
and the acts which follow are cruel, barbarous, or brutal.
The very same fundamental propensity therefore, which
prompts the assassin to strike his innocent victim, also de-
termines the ministers of law to punish him with death; but
in one case the higher feelings of justice and mercy are
overcome by Destructiveness, and in the other, Destructive-
ness is only a secondary power, acting under the sanction
and control of Conscientiousness and Kindness; the object
being to prevent the misery of thousands, by the punishment
of a few. Should the gentler feelings entirely control the
judges, under such circumstances, crimes might be commit-
ted without restraint; and the consequences of indulgence
would be finally visited upon that very class of individuals,
whose meekness encouraged the audacity of offenders.
Bitter, caustic, and severe language, in which is included
cursing, swearing, and scolding, is referable to this propen-
sity. Some persons, especially when weak in body, or
restrained by circumstances,
" Speak daggers, but use none."
The intimate relation between the convolutions of A!i-
mentiveness and Destructiveness, explains why those who
have them both large, are often ill natured when hungry;
the lion is said to be dangerous only when goaded by ap-
petite; and most men in office are more approachable after
dinner; the spirit of severity is much less active, and they
are more likely to give a kind answer to petitions. Several
ladies of my acquaintance, have assured me, that their
husbands are much more cross just before dinner than
afterwards; and are more likely to refuse a favor that is
solicited when their stomachs are empty. An individual
who has been employed in soliciting subscriptions, informs
163 PHRENOLOGY.
me, that among the higher classes, he never applies just be-
fore dinner; as he has long since found that the chances of
refusal are then much greater: but wait, says he, until they
have crowned a hearty dinner with a bottle of wine, and
are sitting at ease, watching the smoke as it rises in grace-
ful curls from their Spanish cigar, and then is the time to
find them in good humor. This same fact is illustrated in
the case of children; they are never in good humor when
hungry. It also accounts for the activity of Destructive-
ness during the excitement of intoxication, sometimes pro-
ducing the wanton demolition of tumblers and bars; and
even the heads of jovial companions frequently become
objects of this propensity under these circumstances.
In most cases in which I have had an opportunity to ex-
amine the heads of murderers, I have found Destructiveness
very large. I have in my possession the skull of Damon,
who was executed in 1834, for the murder of his wife, at
Fredonia, N. Y., in which this organ is very large, and
Kindness small. The skull was presented to me, with a
request that I would give an opinion of the character of the
individual, while I was unacquainted with the circumstan-
ces. The first thing that struck me was the large size of
Destructiveness. The circumstances of the offence were so
revolting, and his conduct so brutal and unnatural, that his
counsel, James Mullet, Esq., urged with uncommon ability
and eloquence, the plea of insanity in his favor. " I assign, 7 '
said he, " the prisoner's fatal act, with all its heart rending
consequences, to one of those paroxysms of insanity, which
sometimes shatter the strongest intellects, —hurl the proud-
est reason from her throne, and give to the angel aspect of
man, the wildness and fury of a devil. I know that the
use of argument, derived from the barbarity of an act, to
prove insanity, is taking the aggravation of the crime to ex-
cuse the perpetration; still there are some bounds to human
DESTRUCTIVE NESS. 169
depravity; and some acts so unnatural as to indicate the
derangement of the functions of the mind. You, under the
influence of a .healthy organization, can scarcely endure
the story of this shocking act; how then could he, with an
equal regularity of organization, perform it ? I have no
doubt that this terrible disease has, many times before its
horrid triumph, seized upon the prisoner, and that the dizzi-
ness in the head, of which he so frequently complained,
were effects of a weaker form of that disorder, which, in
its strength, swept away his reason, and reduced him to the
miserable object he now is —an object more fit for com-
miseration than for punishment—a being unworthy of death,
yet unfit to go at large among his fellow men—a proper
candidate for a hospital, but not for the gallows."
"The facts are few and briefly lold, but the motives are in-
volved in darkness- When we first look upon this transaction,
we feel an involuntary shudder at its aspect. But when we
examine it as rational men, and endeavor to search out the
cause, we are involved in doubt and perplexity little less pain-
ful, and quite unusual in the examination of moral conduct.
It is not, in general, very difficult to retrace moral effects to
their probable causes, or from the conduct of human nature
to infer the motive of action; but this case is an anomaly
in moral investigation. We see the devastation and ruin
spread around, but find no adequate cause. Like the unseen
bolt of Heaven, it has marked its fiery way with desolation;
but the cloud which brought it has passed away and left calm
serenity in its place. When 1 say adequate cause, I do
not mean a cause sufficient to justify the bloody deed. I
mean a cause sufficient to produce such consequences by
any of the known laws of human action, influenced by
reason and a moral sense, even in their weakest, worst,
and most depraved state, short of positive insanity.'
7
The published accounts state, that the neighbors, on en-
170 PHRENOLOGY.
tering the house found Damon standing in the room, red
with the blood of his wife; apparently in a state of uncon-
cerned stupidity; while she lay dying in a corner of the room;
and a bar of iron, stained with blood, stood near the fire
place. He was present at the coroner's inquest, and was
afterwards conveyed to the village in chains; but during the
whole affair, he exhibited the same mysterious torpidity of
feeling, and bluntness of sensibility. He even insisted on
attending the funeral of his wife, but the public sentiment
revolted at the proposition.
In the New-York State Prison, I examined an individual
named Armstrong, who, when only fourteen years of age,
murdered his cousin, a girl of eight, by cutting her throat
with a case knife, without any apparent motive. His head
was so strongly marked, that I requested an artist to take
a drawing of him, a copy of which is below.
He was sentenced to fourteen years imprisonment, which
is now nearly expired; and he is soon to be set at liberty,
without even having admitted that he is sorry for his
crime.
1 have seen several murderers who had no more than
medium Destructiveness; but in such cases the crime origi-
nated in a desire for money, or disappointed love, or ambi-
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 171
tion, or in some other propensities, the appropriate organs
of which were very large, and the higher powers that were
designed to prevent the mischief, were deficient. Dcstruc-
tiveness in these cases was only an accessary, aiding and
abetting more powerful propensities. The murderers of
the unhappy Lyman, in Rochester, had '.
qui itiveness much
larger than Destructiveness. Feschi, who attempted the life
of Louis Phillippe, had not large Destructiveness, but was
evidently influenced by misguided Approbativeness, produ-
cing a desire of notoriety; he was continually associating
his name with great characters; and was ambitious to be
considered another Brutus.
Some of the most bloody and revolting crimes recorded in
history, were committed through the influence of Conscien-
tiousness, when misled by fanaticism and superstition. Such
crimes may be attributed, mainly, to a blind ignorance
of duty, rather than a desire to shed blood; therefore the
Saviour prayed for the forgiveness of his murderers, "for,"
said he, "they know not what they do:'
7
and St. Paul, verily
thought that he did God service by shedding the blood of
the saints. The fires of Destructiveness, never glow with
such fearful and unextinguishable fury, as when kindled by
the hands of those who act from a mistaken sense of duty.
Martyrs, in all ages, have been the victims of ignorance
rather than of cruelty. Conscientiousness and Credencive-
ness, when acting without knowledge, instead of raising
man above the lower animals, as they were designed to do,
only combined with the lower Ipseal propensities, and render-
ed him more unmerciful than the most ferocious beasts of
prey.
I have just examined the head of Lougel, in Buffalo
prison, who has been found guilty of murdering Mr. Rapp
with a club. The circumstances were such, as very much
to embarrass the court, on account of the difficulty of deter-
172 PHRENOLOGY.
mining whether or not the prisoner was insane. It appears
that Mrs. Rapp had become enamoured of Lougel; and
endeavored to persuade him to kill her husband, by whom
she had six children. Lougel refused at first to listen to
her; but whenever her husband was absent, she would throw
her arms around him, and overwhelm him with embraces;
employing all her arts to seduce him to her criminal pur-
poses. At last he began to feel her influence, and concei-
ved the strange idea, that she possessed a supernatural
power over him, and that whatever she willed he could not
resist. Actuated by this superstition, he committed the fata!
act. He made no attempt to escape, or to conceal his of-
fence; but on the contrary, avowed it in the most unreserved
manner; stating at the same time that it was not his own
wish, but the supernatural influence of the woman, that ur-
ged him irresistibly on to the deed. When asked if he did
not expect to be punished, he answered, that no human
power could injure him; as the Virgin Mary had appeared
to him in prison, and assured him of her protection. The
court appointed a jury to ascertain whether he was insane;
and after having the subject under consideration a long time,
they found it impossible to agree. Another jury was then
summoned, who, with the same evidence before them,
agreed immediately that he was perfectly sane; and he was
convicted accordingly. The Judges have however, defer-
red his sentence, to give his counsel an opportunity of ap-
pealing to the Supreme Court.
Mrs. Rapp has since been committed for trial. Her head
is one of the worst I ever saw upon a woman. Destruc-
tiveness, Secretiveness, and Amativeness- enormously de-
veloped—Kindness, Perfectiveness, and Conscientiousness,
very small.
Lougel, on the contrary, has Destructiveness only me-
dium, and Combativeness something larger; but the upper
C OMB ATI VE NESS. 173
lateral parts of the forehead, particularly Perfectiveness,
Hopefulness, and Credenciveness, are very large, and the
Lower Perceptives small, with a very active temperament;
the whole organization being such as to predispose him to
superstitious and absurd notions; and rendering him pecu-
liarly liable, especially in a state of ignorance, to such delu-
sions as that under which he undoubtedly acted when he
struck the fatal blow.
I know many excellent men, with very large Destructive-
ness, who are severe only when severity is a virtue. Their
frown is terrible only to the wicked; and under their protec-
tion, the weak and oppressed feel confident of safety.
Such a man was Washington. While his arm wielded
the sword of justice, and upheld the rights of his country,
he was deaf to the calls of mercy, if duty demanded the
sacrifice: even when the amiable Andre was to be the victim,
Destructiveness and Conscientiousness predominated, and
rendered him inexorable.
V. COMBATIVENESS.
" 1 dare do all that may become a man;
Who dares do more, is none." Shakespeare.
The design of this propensity is to overthrow the obsta-
cles which are in the way of enjoyment. It differs from
Destructiveness in being satisfied with victory, and does
not crush a fallen foe. It only inspires with courage to
" Strike till the last armed foe expires."
The feeling which it produces is courage;—the acts which
follow the feeling are called hostile, brave, fierce, impetu-
ous, hasty; while those of Destructiveness are cruel, mali-
cious, revengeful. The object of Combativeness is conquest,
15
174 PHRENOLOGY.
but Destructiveness demands extermination. Some of the
most bloodthirsty monsters in the world have been con-
temptible cowards—such was Robespierre and Nero; on the
other hand, some of the bravest men have in peace been
the most kind and gentle. There is also a great differ-
ence in animals in this respect; the bull, the ram, and the
hamster, though not destructive animals, frequently mani-
fest a large degree of Combativeness, in combination with
the Social propensities. Combativeness borders upon Ama-
tiveness, Parentiveness, and Adhesiveness; and when the
enjoyment of these Socials is opposed, Combativeness is
excited to battle in their behalf.
" The wren, the most diminutive of birds,
Will fight for her young in the nest, against the owl."
Combativeness also inspires with feelings of opposition
which vents itself in disputes; and, combined with a large
intellect, produces literary and political controversies.
Luther, Cobbett, J. Q. Adams, and Brougham, are instan-
ces of this kind of manifestation. Combined with very
large Conscientiousness, it disposes to moral controversies,
such as relate to temperance, abolition, moral reform, &c.
I know several individuals, who, having embraced a doubt-
ful or controverted doctrine, seem to take the greatest satis-
faction in arguing the point, even when they do not ex-
pect to throw any light on the subject. They wish to gain
victory, not converts—to confound, but not to convince. If
at the same time Secretiveness is large, they love to puzzle
and entrap their opponents, by getting their assent to propo-
sitions without foreseeing the consequences—but when Se-
cretiveness and Cautiousness are small, and Conscientious-
ness large, they contend openly, loudly, fiercely, and seem
actuated by the spirit of Hamlet, when he exclaimed to
Laertes:
Why, I will fight with him upon this theme,
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
REMARKS. 175
This organ is large in all men who have distinguished
themselves by great personal bravery. It is very large in
the portrait of the chevalier Paul Jones, who refused to
surrender, although his ship was sinking; and threatened to
shoot the first man who proposed to ask for quarters.
It is more active in the males than females of all animals;
and among some species the natural instruments of war or
defence which they possess, such as horns, or tusks, are
much more perfect in the males. It is also larger in young
men than in those who are more advanced; and they are
well characterised by Shakespeare:
Sudden and quick in quarrel;
Seeking the bubble reputation even in the cannon's mouth,
REMARKS ON THE CARNIVEROUS RANGE.
These organs presuppose the existence of the Corporeal
Range, and of a vigorous constitution, with a well develo-
ped muscular system: for animals that are weak, and slen-
der, would only devote themselves to certain ruin, if their
offensive propensities were to predominate. Those animals
therefore, which are the boldest, and most ferocious, are
also the strongest of their size. Not only so, but their mus-
cles are adapted to their dispositions; thus, the muscles of
the carnivora are developed in such a manner as to enable
them to rend their prey; but those of the herbivora, are only
adapted to flight, or to undestructive contention with their
own species. In harmony with these principles, we gene-
rally find persons with this Range large, possessing a good
developement of the muscular system. There are however,
so many exceptions to this rule, that superficial observers
will be likely to deny it. If any object to naming the dif-
176 PHRENOLOGY.
ferent Ranges of Ipseals, according to the class of animals
that manifest them in the greatest degree, and prefer to name
them according to the functions which they perform, then
this may be denominated the Offensive Range; and the
Herbiverous Range, the Defensive Range; the Rodentia,
the Appropriati7ig Range; and the Human, the Perfecting
Range, Perhaps this would be the most philosophical. It
appears to me certain, that these organs are developed in
Ranges, according to the order in which I now prefer to
consider them. I think I have discovered the natural clas-
sification—I did not invent it, and am not disposed to dis-
pute about names.
HERBIVEROUS RANGE.
VI. SECRETIVENESS.
To beguile the time,
Look like the time: bear welcome in your eye,
Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower:
But be the serpent under it. Shakespeare.
This is the propensity to conceal—to prevent others from
knowing the thoughts and intentions that are entertained
concerning them. Suspicion is a disagreeable feeling, which
depends principally upon this propensity. Those who have
it large, are inclined to suspect that all appearances of good
will are deceitful—that professions are hollow and insincere;
and that there is in every one a disposition to sacrifice the
interests of others, to the advantage of self. The situation
of this organ, between Destructiveness, Cautiousness, and
Acquisitiveness, explains why it is so apt to combine in
SECRETIVENESS. 177
action with those propensities. Among animals, it either
combines with Destructiveness, as in the Carnivora, to plot
mischief against others; or with Cautiousness, as in the
Herbivora, to avoid secret dangers; or with Acquisitiveness,
as in the Rodentia, to acquire property secretly. The
actions which it produces are indirect, roundabout, and such
as appear to have a different aim from that which they real-
ly do. How far the schemes which originate in Secretiveness
shall be successful, depends very much upon the intellect;
we accordingly have knaves of every degree of intelligence;
some lay their stratagems so foolishly that they cannot pos-
sibly escape detection; their very faces are so indellibly
stamped with the natural language of this propensity, that
every one is thereby put upon his guard. But there are
men whose large Secretiveness is so combined with intellec-
tual and other powers, and who are so thoroughly acquain-
ted with human nature, that it is almost impossible for any
eye, but that of Omniscience, to discover their deep and com-
prehensive designs. Shakespeare has drawn a most per-
fect illustration of this kind of character, in his Iago, and
also Richard the Third, who says to himself:
" Why, I can smile, and murder while I smile;
And cry content to that which grieves my heart;
And wet my cheeks with artificial tears;
And frame my face to all occasions."
I have seen very dishonest men, who had small Secretive-
ness, and large intellect and Cautiousness; they generally
pride themselves upon their cunning, and ability to deceive;
but they deceive themselves most—they mistake caution for
secrecy—and talent for cunning. They are apt to overlook
some secret means of detection, or they forget to conceal
something, or unconsciously allow some expression to es-
cape them, which leads to their exposure. They are una-
ble to compete successfully with those who have equal intel-
15*
178 PHRENOLOGY.
lect, and more Secretiveness. I have always found this
organ large on successful rogues; it enables them to assume
the appearance of honesty, by suppressing the expression
of their real feelings.
It is large in most of the celebrated European politicians;
in Talleyrand, Metternich, and in Pozzo di Borgo; and ena-
bled them to rise from obscurity, and exert a powerful influ-
ence upon the destinies of half the civilized world. Such
men possess a profound, and almost intuitive knowledge of
human nature, in its secret operations. Artifice, in order to
impose upon them, must be most perfect; a single movement
of the eye, or features, or the least equivocation of voice, or
manner, is sufficient to excite their suspicion, and set them
upon their watch. The following anecdote, however, which is
related by Gen. Ducordray Holstein, shows, that without the
aid of phrenology, even Metternich may, for a while, be
greatly deceived by an accomplished villain:
In the winter of 1814, Prince Metternich gave a splendid
ball, at which, all that beauty, fashion, birth and wealth
could unite, were assembled in his palace. All the ambas-
sadors, the grand officers of the crown, in their brilliant
dresses, with crosses, stars and ribbons, a numerous assem-
blage of young, handsome and distinguished women, covered
with diamonds, and dressed with the greatest elegance, were
present. Among this crowd of high personages were dis-
tinguished the beautiful princess de S , born prin-
cess of C . . . ; and the young count of Pekf . . . , whose
high rank, brilliant exterior and amiable qualities had gain-
ed him, during his short stay at Vienna, the admiration and
good graces of the emperor, prince Metternich, and all the
higher circles at Vienna. The count had left his estates
in Bohemia, and came for the first time to the court of
Francis to pay his homage as one of his vassals. Metter-
nich had already destined him for a high office.
S E CR ETI V ENE SS. 179
The celebrated Doct. Gall was one of the guests, and on
intimate terms with the all-powerful premier. He approach-
ed and asked him, " Now Doctor what do you think of this
brilliant count Pekf . . . ? During the fortnight of his stay,
he has already enchanted our ladies. I seldom have found
so many of the graces, such nobleness of manners, united to
so much knowledge and talent. The emperor is very fond
of him, will choose him a wife and attach him to our court.
I predict for him a quick rise and a high destiny. What
do you say, Doctor, or think of him V9
" I have seen him but a few minutes, when you conversed
with him, but—
" How then Doctor? would you so hastily judge and apply
your system to him also?"
" My judgment is for the present formed by having ob-
served him when he spoke with you; and I have not closely
examined him to tell you exactly what I fear; but a fine
outside is not always the indication of good and eminent
qualities.'
7
" Oh! Doctor, said Metternich, smiling, I may readily
give him up to your close examination. Analyze his fea-
tures; feel his protuberances as you call them; and I am
convinced you will readily agree with me, that a nobler mind
or soul has never taken its abode in a finer body."
" Perhaps, perhaps," said the Doctor.
This curious and singular conversation was going on when
the count Pekf . . . danced with the beautiful princess
Shew . . . . , and attracted general admiration. Metter-
nich, after having left the Doctor, was struck with his re-
mark, and observed at a distance that Gall approached the
count to examine him closer by. Curious to know what
the Doctor thought, the prince asked him his opinion. Gall
without answering, took him aside out of the crowd. When
alone, he said to Metternich, "Your favorite is but a pro-
found villain."
180 PHRENOLOGY.
"Doctor," replied the prince, laughing, "you jest or
your whole system appears to me very strange."
" You would perhaps not listen to the reasons upon which
my opinion is grounded; but let us wait. Time alone shall
show which of us is right or wrong."
Metternich laughed heartily at the mania of the Doctor,
as he said; left him and thought no more of it.
In April, 1816, a horrid unheard of crime was committed
in Germany. The perpetrator was arrested, tried before
the Supreme Court of Justice, and sentenced to be degraded
from all his titles and dignities, and then beheaded: the sen-
tence was executed at Prague the 15th of June, the same
year.
The criminal was the same brilliant count of Pekf . . . .
,
the favorite of Francis and Prince Metternich!
The fact that Secretiveness is so much used, or rather
abused by rogues, renders a good developement of it the
more necessary to the friends of justice; to enable them to
detect the machinations of the wicked. Mr. Hays, the cele-
brated High Constable of New-York city, has it very large;
and is consequently capable of conceiving the probable course
which a villain will be likely to pursue in a particular case;
and of suggesting plans and stratagems, to circumvent and
bring him to justice. It generally happens that petty scoun-
drels have small intellect and Conscientiousness, and large
Secretiveness. They are cunning, but not wise; an officer
therefore, who has Secretiveness equally large, with an
intellect much larger, has greatly the advantage of them;
and frequently astonishes both them and the public also, by
his superior sagacity. I know several merchants, who have
failed in business, for no other reason than because they
were too deficient in Secretiveness to suspect the selfish-
ness and treachery of pretended friends. Honest them-
selves—frank, open, and confident, they cannot understand
CAUTIOUSNESS. 181
the feelings which actuate those who have an organization
of a contrary kind. Experience only teaches them wisdom
and prudence, but not cunning—to avoid knaves, not to
outwit them. Washington had Secretiveness large; and Mr.
Jefferson justly remarked, that he showed to much greater
advantage in the management of secret enterprises—in
manoeuvres to get the advantage of the enemy, by gaining
commanding positions—by coming upon them unexpectedly,
and cutting them up in detail, than he did in the open field.
The evidence of this is found in the stratagems by which
he forced the enemy to evacuate Boston; his retreat across
Long Island Sound, and the Delaware River; and his sud-
den descent upon the British and Hessians at Trenton and
Princeton. This great man was also said to be suspicious;
and to detect easily the real characters of those with whom
he associated or encountered, so as rarely to be deceived.
VII. CAUTIOUSNESS.
First fear his hand, its skill to try,
Amid tha chords bewildered laid,
And back recoiled, he knew not why,
Even at the sound himself had made. Collins.
This is the propensity to avoid danger. The operation
of the Lower Ipseals, which I have already described, is
such as to produce a necessity for this propensity. Ani-
mals, in their eagerness to enjoy air, and food, and ease
and in their violent struggles to rend their prey, or to over-
throw the obstacles to enjoyment, necessarily run into innu-
merable dangers, which this is designed to make them avoid.
162 PHRENOLOGY.
The great utility of this propensity is demonstrated by the
consequences which may be sometimes observed to arise
from its deficiency; or from the other propensities, when
unrestrained by its influence. Goaded by Alimentiveness,
we sometimes see animals perfectly reckless of danger.
The hamster, mastiff, and game-cock, in their eagerness for
contention, seem to overlook the superiority of their oppo-
nents, and thus they sometimes unconsciously devote them-
selves to inevitable destruction. Other animals are pre-
vented from doing the same by Cautiousness. I have seen
whole families in which this organ was very small; and the
number of their scars, caused by scalds, burns, careless-
ness in the use of edge-tools, upsetting of carriages, and
unnecessary quarrels, bore ample testimony to the impor-
tance of this wise provision. One of them was a fisherman,
who once went in a boat to Providence, without taking any
provisions with him; and a storm keeping him several days
at sea, he like to have starved; he afterwards facetiously
declared that he would never trust to Providence for pro-
visions again. Some people are always meeting with acci-
dents; they can scarcely go a journey without bringing
back an account of some misfortune which has befallen
them; nor can they engage in any business without meeting
with uncommon losses; or carry out any enterprise when
carefulness is requisite, without some disaster, which they
attribute to any thing but the true cause. When such
persons are deficient in the lower perceptives they are very
phrenologically denominated blunderheads.
This propensity not only presupposes the existence of the
Lower Ipseals, but also such an amount of intellect as to
enable the individual to act from experience. A memory of
events is particularly necessary, and perhaps a degree of
reasoning power; since in order to be properly cautious,
we must infer present and future danger from past events.
CAUTIOUSNESS. 183
Cautiousness is larger in children than grown people; and
this accounts for their astonishing escapes from injury,
when sporting amid a thousand dangers. It is also much
the largest in females; they are proverbially timid, appre-
hensive of danger, and opposed to strife in which they
must openly take part. I have also noticed that the organ
becomes larger as man advances in age; young men are
more apt to be hasty, rash, impetuous
" Sudden and quick in quarrel."
This difference cannot be altogether attributed to the
greater wisdom and experience of age, for in some instan-
ces young men are both ignorant and timid; and in others,
old men are very intellectual, yet reckless of danger.
Cautiousness is well developed on the most successful
military men of modern times; the Carniverous or Offen-
sive Range only serves to get them into danger, and Secre-
tiveness and Cautiousness are necessary to prevent rash-
ness: when these are well combined and directed by intel-
lect, the individual becomes a dangerous opponent; while
he is bent upon conquering his enemy, he at the same time
is careful not to expose himself.
" 'Tis much he dares;
But to that dauntless temper of his mind
He joins a wisdom that doth guide his valor
To act in safety."
When Dr. Gall discovered this organ, he called it fore-
sight; because he first found it large in several individuals
who were disposed to hesitate, doubt, and look forward pru-
dently to consequences, before they said or did any thing
irrevocably; but Spurzheim perceived that this was the
effect of the propensity under consideration, combined with
intellect, and he therefore changed the name to Cautious-
ness. Most of the herbiverous animals manifest it in a high
degree; they have nothing to gain by destroying other ani-
184 PHRENOLOGY.
mals; and except in self defence, or in defence of their
young, they never contend with other species of animals.
Their mode of life, and their means of obtaining food, are
peaceable. The males of herbiverous animals sometimes
contend fiercely, with other males of their own species, for
the females; but this is only at certain seasons, when acting
under great excitement from the activity of their social pro-
pensities; but they will fly in terror from the attack of a carni-
verous animal not one tenth their size, and which they might
crush at a single blow. Cautiousness was not intended to
help animals out of difficulty, but to keep them out. Those
very animals which are the most desirous to avoid danger,
and which exert themselves the most vigorously to keep out
of harm's way, submit with the most quietness to the inflic-
tion when it is present; whereas those which are the most
reckless in their attempts to injure others, for their own
gratification, make the greatest ado when a personal injury
is inflicted upon themselves. Cautiousness then, needs more
intellect than the lower Ipseals; or rather, it is related to
higher intellectual powers; and the philosophical student of
Phrenology will perceive that the higher organs of each
class, in their very nature, presuppose the existence of the
higher organs of the other classes. Without keeping this
principle in mind, we shall be liable to take a too limited
view of the functions of the superior powers: they are all
more general in their effects—they take a wider range and
exert a modifying influence upon those below them. This
will be the more obvious when I have explained all the su-
perior propensities, and it will be perceived, that the nature
of all the powers becomes more and more general as we
rise in the scale.
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. 185
RODENTIA RANGE.
VIII. CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
I will pull down my barns, and build greater. Luke.
This is a propensity to adapt the productions of nature to
our own purposes by changing their form, size, weight,
color or order; and in the calculations necessary to accom-
plish this end, we are greatly dependent upon Number. So
intimate is the relation between this propensity and the
lower perceptives, that some Phrenologists have considered
it as partaking of the nature of an intellectual faculty, and
have denominated it semi-intellectual; but it is very easy to
demonstrate that it is in no degree intellectual; however
largely developed it may be, it never bestows mechanical
talent, unless the perceptives are large. In this respect
it resembles every other propensity, and gives its possessor
afeeling of pleasure, which, in common language, is called
a fondness of mechanics—a taste for architecture—a love
for construction, &c.—and those who have it large, have a
great proneness to be engaged in mechanical operations,
such as are in harmony with their other powers. How far
an individual will be successful in his mechanical perform-
ances, depends altogether upon his intellect; but how much
pleasure will be experienced in construction, depends upon
Constructiveness. I know some persons who are excellent
artists, with small Constructiveness; and others who are
miserable bunglers with this organ uncommonly developed.
Constructiveness borders upon the perceptives, and when
active, stimulates them into a state of activity. It is impor-
tant to observe, that those propensities which are most de-
16
186 PHRENOLOGY.
pendent upon knowledge, are nearest to the intellect. Spurz-
heim remarked that " organs of analogous powers, are
regularly in each other's vicinity;'
7
and I add, that organs
which are most dependent upon each other, are always
near neighbours. This is to me sufficient explanation of
what has been called the semi-intellectual nature of those
propensities which border upon the intellect.
I have seen many persons with large Constructiveness,
and large reflectives, and moderate perceptives; they gene-
rally excel in mechanical contrivances, but fail in practice.
They will sometimes make good general superintendents,
and can judge well of the nature, and expediency of opera-
tions which they cannot perform. They make better mas-
ters than journeymen. Again, there are some men who,
although first rate workmen, cannot proceed a step beyond
their instructions. They can work by imitation, or by rules
which others lay down; but the moment they are left to
their own judgment, without any precedent, or model, or
overseer, they are in a maze of perplexity. Under these
circumstances, they are frequently directed by the judgment
of a person who is totally ignorant of the use of the instru-
ments, and who could never have equalled in practice the
laborer whom he directs. With large Perfectiveness, this
propensity gives a fondness for the fine arts, and construc-
tions of the improved and ornamented kind.
In the lower animals, Constructiveness is manifested in
the highest degree, particularly by that subdivision of the
mammalia denominated the Rodentia or Gnawers. Their
teeth and claws are formed so as to qualify them for con-
structing habitations of wood and earth in their peculiar
manner with wonderful skill. It is remarkable that animals
construct instinctively upon the most correct mathematical
principles. Their perceptives seem to be adapted to the
principles of nature in such a manner, that they can neither
ACQUISITIVENESS. 187
err nor vary nor improve: there is a relation established
beforehand, by the Creator, between their powers and cer-
tain structures, so that whenever their powers begin to act,
they must act according to a certain established, and inva-
riable law of their constitutions; for this reason they cannot
essentially improve by education, nor lose their peculiar
talent by neglect.
IX. ACQUISITIVENESS.
And there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. Luke.
The propensity to acquire property, is as plainly mani-
fested by the Rodentia tribes of animals, as it is by man;
and it is a curious fact, that they acquire nothing except for
the gratification of their Corporeal Range, and particularly
for Alimentiveness. It is also remarkable, that all the ani-
mals that acquire property, first make use of their Construc-
tiveness to prepare a proper store in which to deposite and
preserve it for future use. The beaver for instance, first
makes use of his Constructiveness to gnaw down trees and
build a convenient hut, and afterwards acquires bark to
gratify his Alimentiveness during winter. The rat also,
that notoriously thievish animal, first prepares a nest, or
hiding place, by gnawing and digging in a manner nearly
as ingenious as the beaver, and then begins to acquire pro-
visions for winter. The same is true of all the Rodentia.
It is interesting thus to trace the connection between the
propensities of Alimentiveness, Constructiveness and Ac-
quisitiveness, and at the same time to observe the manner
in which they are chained together in the brain.
188 PHRENOLOGY.
Acquisitiveness was first discovered by Dr. Gall, upon
thieves; and was therefore imprudently named the organ of
theft. This, with other similar errors, was the means of
much ridicule being brought upon his system of " Cranios-
copy;" but after Spurzheim adopted the more appropriate
name of Acquisitiveness, and explained it as a very useful
propensity, which produces economy, and industry, and
wealth—the public became more reconciled to it. It is well
developed on successful merchants; and is the source of
the pleasurable feelings which they experience, when they
see their property increasing. It is large on Dr. Adam
Smith, the distinguished author of the Wealth of Nations.
It is much larger on Negroes than Indians—on the Scotch
than the English and French—on the people of New Eng-
land than those of the Southern States. I have found it
generally large in the inhabitants of the new settlements of
the West, where people from all parts of the world had
flocked together, leaving their homes and friends, and sacri-
ficing all the ties of society to acquire wealth.
Notwithstanding the great utility of this propensity, there
is none which is so much abused, particularly in this coun-
try. None which is the basis of so much misery and vice
which produces so many of those effects that make the
philanthropist shudder with feelings of wounded " Kindness
and Conscientiousness." The meanest and most despicable
tricks are resorted to, even under color of law and in the
hallowed name of justice—the blackest and most damning
crimes stain the records of every court, or escape through
bribery their merited punishments. The innocent, the igno-
rant and unwary, are despoiled and robbed of every thing
which renders life desirable. Liberty is bought and sold
the temples of virtue, and of true religion, trampled to the
dust, and their name and garb assumed to mock insulted
Deity—education despised and neglected, and together with
ACQUISITIVENESS. 189
the support of the aged and the orphan pauper, disposed of
to the lowest bidder—and all this to gratify a single pro-
pensity!
11 If not so frequent would not this be strange?
That 'tis so frequent, this is stranger still."
Man differs from other animals by the all grasping nature
of his Acquisitiveness; he is not content to preserve the
bounties of nature for future comfort merely—for food, or
clothing—the whole material world is searched for things
either of natural or artificial value—every ocean and river,
every mountain and mine is stripped of its treasures—the
lives of animals are sacrificed without number, and without
mercy; not only to furnish food, clothing, light, and medi-
cine, but even for mere ornament or show. Living ani-
mals also are acquired and reduced to labor to increase
his wealth. Not content with this, he often assumes pos-
session of his fellow men, and disposes of them for the
gratification of his misdirected Acquisitiveness. Even his
own health and personal comfort are frequently sacrificed
to save property which he can never enjoy—which he only-
desires to possess—and does not wish to appropriate to his
happiness and comfort.
Dr. Taylor, member of Congress from Manlius, N. Y.
while I was at his residence, informed me that one of his
patients, a boy of fourteen, although most dangerously ill,
refused to take medicine until his father offered to pay him
five dollars; after stipulating that it should be specie, and
paid down, he consented—received it—counted it over with
the most intense eagerness and satisfaction—added it to his
previously acquired store—then drawing the clothes around
him, said he was ready to perform his part of the contract.
The organ of Acquisitiveness was so extremely developed,
that the Doctor, though a total disbeliever in Phrenology,
was forcibly struck with the coincidence, and was from this
16*
190 PHRENOLOGY.
circumstance led to make a great number of observations,
and finally, in a public meeting, after a very interesting
discussion, declared his thorough conviction of the truth of
Phrenology. Dr. Taylor had but a short time previously,
assisted his friend Dr. Sewall, of Washington, in publishing
a work in opposition to Phrenology. This change of opi-
nion therefore, and the characteristic frankness with which
it was avowed, was equally gratifying to the friends of the
science, and honorable to the distinguished individual who
made it.
This propensity manifests itself in so many different ways,
and is so much modified by the other powers, and by circum-
stances, that it is frequently difficult to make an individual
understand that he has it very strong. Some, with a very
large Acquisitiveness, are perfectly honest and noble in
their dealings; they would not, for the wealth of all the
world, sacrifice the great principles of morality; but they
endeavor to gain property by every honorable means in their
power; they rise early, and sit up late—they are very in-
dustrious, and attentive to all their pecuniary affairs—place
a high value upon their time—allow nothing belonging to
them, or left in their charge, to be wasted or injured through
neglect—they not only acquire, but preserve with great
care—keep a watchful eye upon their agents, and insist
upon having every item accounted for: while they are ready
to pay every farthing that may justly be charged against
them, they in return insist upon all that is due to them-
selves—they frequently give with great liberality to the poor,
and to the support of useful institutions; but they are care-
ful not to give all—and they feel greatly shocked and offen-
ded, to learn that their gift has been appropriated without
regard to economy—they love to repeat the prudent maxims
of Franklin, and show the young "the way to wealth''
they take great pleasure in seeing their property accumu-
ACQUISITIVENESS. 191
lating—they never lose an opportunity to make a good
bargain, and in the language of Burns,
To catch dame fortune's favoring smile,
Assiduous wait upon her,
And gather gear by every wile
That's justified by honor.
I have generally found Order and Number larger on
those with predominant Acquisitiveness, than those who
have it small; probably this is owing to the fact that these
organs generally act together; large Number is necessary
to calculate loss and gain with facility, and Order to arrange
the acquisitions in such a manner as to preserve them to
the greatest advantage. I know several merchants who
have failed, because they neglected their book accounts, and
in them all I found small Order and Number. When large
Acquisitiveness is combined with a large intellect, the reflec-
tives predominating, and Cautiousness medium, with Hope-
fulness large, then business will be likely to be done on a
large scale—the plans will be comprehensive and complica-
ted, yet systematic and reasonable. The loss or gain will
be such as to produce the most important results; sometimes
affecting whole nations by a single transaction; and even
changing the policy of the most powerful governments. But
when Acquisitiveness is combined with a small Hopefulness,
aud a very large Cautiousness, the transactions are of the
most limited kind; a sure retail business is preferred, and
capital, instead of being employed to extend the business,
is lent on bond and mortgage. All the operations are small,
the risk is little—the profits are small—the expenses are
moderate—every thing is contracted within the narrowest
bounds. In some extreme cases of voluntary littleness,
the character is strongly marked in the personal appear-
ance. Alimentiveness is made to suffer—the lean, gaunt
body is contracted within threadbare garments, which are
192 PHRENOLOGY.
too small in all directions—the snivelled features sharpened to
a point—the upper lip drawn towards the nose, exposes the
incisive teeth—the fingers crooked to resemble claws—the
body bent forward—and the whole figure and expression re-
sembling a rat in a sitting posture. Long before I thought of
the relation between the Rodentia Range and the Rondentia
Class of animals, I was struck with the resemblance, in
expression and appearance, between misers and certain
animals of the Rodentia Class, particularly squirrels and
rats, when engaged in gnawing. This observation, though
seemingly of little consequence at first, led me to some very
important results, a detailed account of which I intend to
give on some future occasion, in a separate volume.
I have in my collection, a plaster-paris cast of the brain
of a man who was killed in a quarrel for a {e\v shillings,
which he endeavored to obtain unjustly; the organs of Se-
cretiveness and Acquisitiveness are extremely developed,
and Firmness and Imperativeness are large, but Conscien-
tiousness is comparatively small. The whole organization
is eminently selfish, and is very different in this respect
from several other brains, the casts of which I have bv me.
PERFECTING, OR HUMAN RANGE.
X. PLAYFULNESS, OR WIT.
See on yon carpet, mantled o'er with flowers,
A little babbling playful tribe disport;
As yet, no cloud o'ershades their joyous hours,
Nor serious thought intrudes, nor reason holds her court.
Anonymous.
When this was first discovered by Dr. Gall, he called it
the organ of Wit, because he found it large on those who
PLAYFULNESS. 193
were remarkable for their witty productions. Gall said that
he could find no better method to describe it, than as the
predominant intellectual feature in Rabelais, Cervantes,
Racine, Swift, Sterne, and Voltaire. In all these authors,
and in many others who manifest a similar talent, the organ
is large. Dr. Spurzheim admitted that the organ was
large on witty persons, but denied that it was an intellectual
faculty. He considered it as a feeling, " given to man to
make him merry—to produce gaiety." Mr. George Combe,
Mr. William Scott, and Mr. Hewett Watson, of Edinburgh,
agreed with Dr. Gall, that it is an intellectual faculty. Mr.
Combe, in his first edition, classed both this and Imitation
with the Reflectives; and Messrs. Scott and Watson, in
several very able, but rather metaphysical disquisitions,
which were inserted in the Phrenological Journal, have
supported their different views at considerable length. Mr.
Scott considered it the faculty which perceived differences
and incongruities, while Comparison perceives resemllances.
Mr. Watson defines it, as the faculty of perceiving the
" nature or intrinsic qualities of things." When Dr. Spurz-
heim was last at Edinburgh, he demonstrated by dissection
of the brain, that "anatomically, Ideality and Wit belong
to the same department of convolutions; whence,''' says Mr.
Combe, " a presumption arises, of their belonging to the
same class of mental faculties: and as Ideality has been
uniformly regarded as a sentiment, Wit may with propriety
be placed under the same head." Accordingly, in Mr.
Combe's last edition, he includes Wit and Imitation among
the higher feelings, "to preserve uniformity with Dr. Spurz-
heim." Mr. Combe however, continues to name it the
organ of Wit, while Dr. Spurzheim calls it Mirthfulness.
After having given the different views of others, I will
take the liberty of presenting my own.
I consider it the propensity of Playfulness in general,
194 PHRENOLOGY.
bestowed upon all the higher animals, to impel them to im-
prove and perfect their powers, by sportive exercises. It
never seems to have occurred to Phrenologists, that animals
possess this power; their observations have been hitherto
confined to its operations when in combination with the
higher intellectual powers; and they have altogether over-
looked its more ordinary manifestations. It is an interes-
ting fact, that those animals which are longest in arriving
at maturity, and which perform the most complicated ac-
tions, manifest the most Playfulness. They are also more
perfect when matured than those which manifest but little
disposition for sport. It is much more active when animals
are young; their powers in an imperfect state, and they
are incapable of engaging in the serious pursuits which be-
come adult age. This propensity can with difficulty be attri-
buted in any degree to the lowest classes of animals; its very
nature, and also its high rank, seems to imply that the indi-
vidual arises gradually to maturity. It is very slightly exhi-
bited by fishes and reptiles, which are the lowest of the ver-
tebrated animals. Birds are higher in the scale, they have
longer youth, and they play considerably. The highest
class of animals is denominated mammalia, because they
have teats, or mamma, and suckle their young. As a class,
they manifest much more Playfulness than fishes and birds.
They are subdivided by naturalists into several genera; and
each genera into several species. Those species of them
which perform the most complicated and intelligent actions,
manifest the most Playfulness. This seems to be necessary
to qualify them to use their powers with the requisite facility.
The most remarkably playful animals are the cat, dog, and
monkey tribes, (the canine, feline and semise genera,) and
these are very imperfect at birth—arrive gradually to matu-
rity—enjoy the fostering and providing care of affectionate
parents—and have very complicated operations to perform.
PLAYFULNESS. 195
Playfulness to them, therefore, is a highly useful propensity.
It is worthy of remark, that the cetacea, or mammalia that
live in the sea, and which naturalists do not class with fishes,
such as the whale and dolphin, are much more playful than
the fishes; they are also longer in coming to maturity,
and are as regardful of the wants of their dependent young
as the most indulgent quadruped.
Playfulness then, is a propensity, implanted in the minds
of men and animals, for a wise purpose. It is the means
by which the children of nature are educated, their powers
exercised during youth, and thus gradually improved and
perfected for vigorous and serious action, when they arrive
at maturity. It follows, that there are as many kinds of
play as there are different powers to be brought into action;
we accordingly see animals using sportively in youth, the
same propensities that are peculiar to the species, or to the
individual, when at middle age and engaged in earnest.
Thus the kitten plays with a ball, and evidently imagining
it a mouse, goes through all the movements in sport that
she would if the real animal were in its place; and calls
into action the same propensities; she hides, and crouches,
and watches, and springs, and seizes, and tears it—with the
same low growl and fierce demeanor, that characterises the
serious efforts of the full grown cat. The puppy also,
impelled by the same playful propensity, exercises all his
carniverous powers upon a piece of cloth, shakes and rends
it as lustily, as if it contained the essential elements of his
future prey. The same remarks will apply to many
other animals. The play of the lamb and the dove is as
innocent as their subsequent habits. The colt runs, jumps,
snuffs up the air, " fetches mad bounds," kicks, paws up
the earth, and seems to revel in the happy consciousness of
his expanding powers. Precisely analogous to these is the
playfulness of a child. No animal is so long coming to
196 PHRENOLOGY.
maturity, none perform such various actions when mature,
and none manifest Playfulness during so long a time. The
first twelve or fourteen years of human life, is an almost
uninterrupted scene of play. The wants of necessity are
provided for by parental care; and the child has only to
enjoy and exercise his growing powers. Upon the same
principle that the sports of animals indicate their characters,
the child exercises in sport his predominant and most largely
developed organs. Is the Corporeal Range large—his
sports will be of an athletic kind. If the second or Carni-
verous Range—contentious, daring and cruel sports will
then be most gratifying. If the third, or Herbiverous
Range predominates, the noisy and dangerous and rude
exercises will be avoided and gentler ones substituted. If
Constructiveness and Playfulness are large, the child will
play build, and thus sometimes manifest the mechanical
talent in a high degree. If Acquisitiveness, then a mimic
store will be kept, bargains will be made, money coined,
and accounts kept. If the Socials are large, they will com-
bine with Playfulness, and the doll, and the baby house will
be introduced, schools kept, governments established and
overthrown, and all under the influence of this propensity.
We are now prepared to define Wit as the Playfulness
of the intellectual faculties expressed in words. The most
refined and elegant specimens of wit, are the result of a
combination of all the higher powers, acting under the influ-
ence of this propensity; and low wit, or humor, results
from the same principle applied to the lower powers. Every
specimen of wit that can be produced, may easily be refer-
red to the playful operation of some organ or combination
of organs. Irving and Maryatt, both have large Playful-
ness, Eventuality and Language; and they are consequently
distinguished for writing amusing and playful narratives.
Franklin, Sterne, and Voltaire, had it combined with Caus-
PLAYFULNESS. 197
ality, and they represent powerful arguments in a sportive
manner. Voltaire added a very large Imitativeness, and
he had an uncommon faculty of dressing up and distorting
serious truths, so as to make them resemble those ideas
which are not meant in earnest; and in this way destroyed
their force. If he could show that it was unreasonable
and foolish to look upon a proposition as seriously intended,
his point was gained; and in order to do this, he was obli-
ged to repeat it over, adding to it, or illustrating it in such a
manner as to infuse into it an appearance of such palpable
absurdity, that it could not be supposed to have been seri-
ously meant.
The great resemblance between serious and playful ac-
tions and ideas, renders it sometimes extremely difficult to
mark the line of distinction. It often happens that the con-
duct, or language of a person, is such as to render it doubt-
ful whether he is in earnest or not, especially if he has
large Secretiveness. If he pretends to be in earnest, we
reply by showing that his ideas are such as to be inconsis-
tent with seriousness. Playfulness is opposed to gravity,
and witty remarks, when used against argument, are such
as tend to prevent the subject under discussion from being
considered worthy of serious debate. Dr. Franklin, when
a member of the Pennsylvania Legislature, opposed a pro-
position to confine the right of suffrage to those who pos-
sessed property worth two hundred pounds. "Suppose," said
the Doctor, " that all a man's property amounts to exactly
the requisite sum, but among his possession he reckons a
donkey; of course, by this law the man is to day a voter,
but tomorrow the donkey dies, and the right is gone. Now
where did the right of suffrage lay—in the man or in the
donkey
1
?" Almost every instance of Franklin's wit was of a
similar character; he attempted to show that the proposi-
tion was such, that no man of common intelligence would
17
198 PHRENOLOGY.
entertain it seriously. The propensity to be witty depends
upon this organ, but the kind of wit depends altogether
upon the other powers that combine with it: thus punning
is the playfulness of Language, and is very properly consi-
dered the lowest species of wit, as the organ of Language
is one of the very lowest in the brain. Comic acting is pro-
duced by Playfulness and Imitation, and comic music by
Playfulness combined with Tune. Hogarth had very large
Playfulness, Constructiveness, Form, and Color, and this
enabled him to excel in painting comic scenes.
The organ is much larger in children than adults, as any
one may easily ascertain by examination. 1 have often
seen them manifest it in a very high degree, in combination
with Destructiveness, by continually teasing and tormenting
their mates—all in fun. It seems to me, that since the
sports of children consist of the active exercise of their
largest organs, it is important that their games should be
properly regulated; so that their constitutional predisposi-
tions to vice, may not be increased by habit, association,
and exercise. I repeat it, I consider Playfulness as the
means by which the children of nature are educated; and
therefore, all artificial systems of education should be based
upon this principle. Entertainment and instruction should
always be commingled; and as far as practicable, should be
adapted to the peculiar dispositions of the pupil.
PERPECTIVENESS. 199
XI. PERFECTIVENESS, OR IDEALITY.
Beautiful! How beautiful is all this visible world!
How glorious in its action and itself! Byron.
When this organ was first discovered, it was called the
organ of Poetry, because it was found large on distinguished
poets. It was afterwards observed to be equally large on
celebrated sculptors, musicians, orators, and all those who
were uncommonly devoted to the fine arts, and manifested
a quick perception of the beautiful. Dr. Spurzheim, per-
ceiving the necessity of changing the name, adopted that of
Ideality, which signifies ideal beauty, or a kind of beauty
which is superior to reality, and which exists only in ima-
gination. Mr. Combe considers Ideality as "an elegant
and appropriate name.'7
It is certainly elegant and eupho-
nious, but I cannot admit that it is appropriate; 1 have
therefore adopted that of Perfectiveness, by which 1 mean
the propensity to improve and perfect. So far is it from
being related to a kind of beauty which is superior to nature
that 1 consider it as directly related to the works of nature,
particularly those which are perfect of their kind. One of
the traits of character which distinguishes man from other
animals, as much, and perhaps more, than anv other, is the
propensity to improve. He not only continues to accumu-
late knowledge, and to improve in the skill and beauty of
his performances from infancy to manhood, but from age to
age he is capable of progressive improvement. There
are different degrees of perfection, in all organized beings;
every kind of vegetable, and even the most unsightly ani-
mals, may be more or less perfect of their kind, and are
200 PHRENOLOGY.
therefore appropriate objects for the gratification of Perfec-
tiveness. I have seen gardeners with this organ large, pluck
up valuable trees and shrubs and plants, and supply their
places at great expense with others of a more perfect kind.
The same is true of the productions of nature in a collective
or grouped state, when a variety of lovely and noble ob-
jects are brought into juxtaposition, so as to constitute a
magnificent and perfect scene. It is easy to conceive that
such a mind as Byron's, would feel inspired with this pro-
pensity, when from some lofty eminence he looked around
upon one of the most enchanting scenes in Italy, and exclai-
med with rapture,
" Beautiful! How beautiful is all this visible world!"
Some might have gazed upon the same scene, without think-
ing of any thing but the value of timber, or the number of
cattle that could feed there to advantage.
The lower animals give no evidence whatever of their
admiration of the beautiful.
11 Brutes graze the mountain top, with faces prone,
And eyes intent upon the scanty herb
It yields them; or recumbent on its brow,
Ruminate heedless of the scene outspread
Beneath, beyond, and stretching far away
From inland regions to the distant main.
Man views it and admires."
This propensity seems to modify and exalt the aim of all
the powers with which it combines. It disposes them to
rise above mere utility, or rather, it crowns the productions
of utility with ornament. Does Alimentiveness require a
repast? this propensity insists upon its being served up with
elegance, and is disgusted with the idea of feeding like a
mere animal. Does Constructiveness inspire the mind with
a desire to build a house? Perfectiveness wishes to have it in
the best style; not merely warm, convenient, and comforta-
PERFECTIVENESS. 201
ble, but splendid and perfect in every respect. Does Ac-
quisitiveness desire to accumulate property? it inclines him
to do so in the most noble and refined manner; it soon
becomes wearied with the dull monotony of mere business,
however profitable. In this manner it very much modifies
Acquisitiveness, rouses it from the mean and grovelling
pursuits to which it is prone, when this propensity is small,
and demands time for improvement. The majority of thieves
have this organ deficient, particularly those which commit
petit larceny. It frequently deters men from little crimes,
not because they are wrong, but because they are mean.
I once saw a highway robber with large Perfectiveness, and
speakin* of himself, he said, " I do not skulk around for my
prey 2ike a thieving owl, but I pounce upon it like an
eagle." The artist who has it large, is continually search-
ing for the finest forms in nature, for his models. The
proudest achievements of genius, are but imperfect copies of
natural beauty. In almost all the complicated productions
of nature, certain parts are much more perfect than others;
and the artist, by selecting from a great number of speci-
mens, the parts which happen to be most perfect, and group-
ing them artificially together, is able to produce a combina-
tion superior to any that can be found in reality. The
florist, can select the most beautiful flowers of the season,
and with them form a boquet more exquisitely beautiful, and
better adapted to please the human mind, than any that can
be found in nature. The sculptor, or painter, proceeds
upon the same principle, when he produces a Venus, an
Adonis, or an Apollo. He finds upon one individual a beau-
tiful forehead, upon another a nose, or an arm, and by
combining all the individual instances of perfection in one
statue, he seems to excel nature, when he has only grouped
together a number of imperfect copies of her most perfect
productions,
17*
202 PHRENOLOGY.
Poetry is the perfection of language. We may combine
words in such a manner as merely to be understood; but if
this organ is very large, its possessor will choose a noble
subject, use the most elegant and refined words, and com-
bine them in the most graceful style; the illustrations also,
will be chosen, not for their propriety only, but for their
beauty, gorgeousness, and splendor. Every thing low, vul-
gar, mean, or common, will as far as possible be avoided.
The images which spontaneously rise in such a mind, and
which will be entertained with the greatest delight, will be
of the highest order. In looking around upon the face of
nature, the attention will be particularly directed to such
objects as are adapted to this propensity—so that after-
wards, when writing upon any subject, the images of the
objects thus noticed will be involuntarily presented to the ima-
gination, and described in the glowing language of poetry.
" The poet's eye in a fine frenzy rolling,
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven"
to find ideas fitted to illustrate, amplify and adorn his sub-
ject: and if his inspired vision cannot light upon any known
objects " that suit his large desires," he resorts to invention,
and his prolific
" Imagination bodies forth,
The forms of things unknown."
Like an aspiring seronaut, he cuts himself loose from the
dull and prosing circumstances that confine him to the at-
mosphere of ordinary life—soars above the clouds—takes
his station among the stars, and looks down through " the
dizziness of distance" upon this lower world, where all com-
mon objects are lost in obscurity, and only ihe grandest and
brightest can be distinguished. Such were the aspirations
of Shakespeare, when he exclaimed,
" O for a muse of fire, that would ascend
The brightest heaven of invention:
PERFECT1VENESS. 203
A kingdom for a stage, princes to act,
And monarchs to behold the swelling scene."
And such also must have been the feelings of Milton, when
he invoked the inspiration of Him
" Who touched Isaiah's lips with hallowed fire."
Any one, in order fully to appreciate the productions of
such authors, must approximate to them in organization;
and it is very easy to understand, upon Phrenological prin-
ciples, why some persons take no pleasure in reading the
works of the immortal poets. Shakespeare, aware of the
necessity of this mutual understanding, introduces Chorus
in Henry the Fifth, to request the audience to
" Think, when we talk of horses, that you see them,
Printing their proud hoofs i'the receiving earth:
For 'tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings,
Carry them here and there: jumping o'er times:
Turning the accomplishment of many years
Into an hour glass."
This propensity is very dependent upon the highest organs
of intellect. Perfectiveness gives the desire to improve,
but Reflection gives the ability—the talent—the necessary
invention. Sometimes a very large organ of Perfectiveness
is found combined with a very small intellect. The forehead
may be high and wide, but shallow. In such cases the
manifestations will frequently be in the highest degree
eccentric and ridiculous, especially if combined with very
large Approbativeness and Hopefulness. They are con-
tinually attempting more than they can perform. They
lay out all their undertakings on such a large and splendid
scale, that they can seldom be realized—their ideas are
like monstrous and brilliant bubbles, which burst while they
are coming into existence. If we read their compositions,
we are entertained with a pompous array of splendid and
beautiful nothings—their public discourses are mere
" Sound and fury signifying nothing."
204 PHRENOLOGY.
Their very dress and manner proclaims a fantastical dispo-
sition, and every act is accompanied with a flourish.
From the preceding remarks, it will be perceived, that a
genius for poetry depends principally upon the organ under
consideration, but a good intellect, particularly Language
and Comparison, must be combined with it, and also a fair
developement of the other propensities. An organization
however, which qualifies an individual to be a good poet,
is by no means desirable, as it disqualifies for the common
and useful pursuits of life. Poets are proverbially unfortu-
nate in their pecuniary affairs; they have an insatiable
longing after a state of perfection in every thing relating to
their largest organs, which under ordinary circumstances,
is unattainable ; and therefore, they are seldom happy.
This however, must be considered the effect of an excessive
endowment of Perfectiveness, and not its legitimate offspring,
when united to a well balanced mind. The true question
is, what was the design of the Creator in bestowing it? and
we must look for our answer among its ordinary, and not
its excessive and ungoverned manifestations. It was evi-
dently intended to raise man to the highest rank in the scale
of intelligent beings, and to qualify him for the enjoyment
of happiness of the very highest order.
HOPEFULNESS. 205
HOPEFULNESS, OR HOPE>
Old Rome consulted birds; Lorenzo, thou
With more success the flight of Hope survey,
Of restless Hope, forever on the wing.
High perched o'er every thought that falcon sits,
To fly at all that rises in her sight:
And never stooping but to mount again
Next moment, she betrays her aim's mistake,
And owns her quarry lodged beyond the grave. Young,
This is the propensity to act with reference to future
enjoyment, and to anticipate agreeable results in doubtful
cases. The agreeable feeling which proceeds from this pro-
pensity, has been called hope—its disagreeable affection,
disappointment—and the feelings which are caused by its
deficiency, melancholy. I have therefore adopted the term
Hopefulness for the propensity, to distinguish it from the
feeling which it produces. Dr. Gall named the organs
according to the actions with which they were accompa-
nied ; Dr. Spurzheim named them according to the feelings
with which they were accompanied; and considered actions
as the effects of feelings. Now I carry the analysis still
further, and consider both feelings and actions as the effects
of propensities. I cannot too much insist upon the impor-
tance of making a distinction between
1. A propensity itself,
2. The feelings which it produces, and
3. The actions which it produces.
A propensity may exist in a dormant state, without pro-
ducing either feelings or actions: —or it may be excited and
produce feelings without being followed by actions:—or,
206 PHRENOLOGY.
third, it may be excited and produce both feelings and
actions. Having become fully satisfied of the soundness
of these principles, I have taken the liberty to change the
names of some of the organs, to prevent feelings and pro-
pensities from being confounded together. I make no objec-
tion to using the word hope to signify a feeling produced
by the propensity under consideration; nor to the word
ideality to signify a feeling produced by Perfectiveness:
I am not inclined to dispute about mere terms, unless they
lead to error; but if there is really a difference between pro-
pensities, feelings, and actions, then it is obviously neces-
sary to modify the nomenclature accordingly. (See
page 125.)
This propensity is the highest of the Ipseal Class; like
the key stone of an arch, it crowns the whole—is intimately
related to the whole—and contributes more than any other
to human happiness. It produces this effect, by combining
with the other powers, and inspiring a feeling that they will
yet be gratified. In order to fully understand the nature of
•Hopefulness, we must bear in mind its high character,
its extensive connections, its relation to the other propensi-
ties of its own Class, and of the Socials, and especially its
relation to the highest Intellectuals. Every propensity is
dependent upon the intellect, but the highest propensities
are peculiarly dependent upon the highest Intellectuals.
The lowest propensities may act effectually and perfectly
without the aid of the reflectives; Alimentiveness, Destruc-
tiveness andCombativeness, for instance, can act vigorously,
and be perfectly gratified, without reflection; the percep-
tives are to them sufficient guides; not so the highest propen-
sities—their very definition implies the existence of Causali-
ty, to look beyond the present. These remarks apply with
great force to Perfectiveness and Hopefulness; neither of
these propensities can produce the effects which they were
HOPEFULNESS. 207
evidently designed lo do, without the aid of reflection. I
have already shown the effect of a large Perfectiveness
upon a deficient intellect, and its great dependence upon
Causality and Comparison; this is even more obvious in
respect to Hopefulness. I cannot conceive how this propen-
sity can act at all, until Causality has first acted. It is only
by means of Causality, that we look forward to the future;
we remember the past, and perceive the present, by means
of the perceptives; but when, from these premises, we infer
the events to come, we do so only by means of Causality.
Now, when we consider that Hopefulness relates to the
doubtful, the contingent, the future—that its very office
is to produce feelings and actions with reference to subjects
concerning which we only know in part, and believe in part,
and conjecture in part, and hope the rest—we must admit
that it is especially dependent upon Causality, for the
very material upon which it acts. When any thing is pre-
sent, or within our reach, we cannot feel any hope in rela-
tion to it; but when the result is one in which we feel a deep
interest, and which, by means of Causality we perceive
must happen, though it is doubtful whether the event will
be favorable to us or not—then this propensity has its
appropriate stimulus—produces agreeable anticipations
dismisses all forebodings—and disposes us to act as if suc-
cess were certain.
The lower animals can possess no more of hope than
they do of reason. They know so little of the probabilities
of future events, that they can scarcely be said to hope
or fear concerning it. But man has intellectual powers
sufficiently capacious to store up the events of ages past,
and by the light which they shed upon the future, they enable
him to foresee the probable fate of generations yet unborn;
without this happifying propensity he would be inconcei-
vably miserable and melancholy. We are not left to con-
'
208 PHRENOLOGY.
jecture on this point; hundreds of instances have fallen
under my own observation, in which a deficiency of the
organ was attended with the most indescribable unhappiness.
The more reflective powers such persons possess, the more
melancholy it renders them; by enabling them to see diffi-
culties, and troubles afar off; and thus exciting Cautiousness
to action, while there is not sufficient hope to counteract its
chilling effects. The most melancholy people that I have
ever seen, had large intellect. They have the gift of show-
ing, by the most unanswerable logic, that they are the most
unfortunate beings in the world; and they recur to the
miseries of the past, as data from which to infer the misfor-
tunes of the future.
" Melancholy is a fearful gift;
What is it but the telescope of truth,
Which strips the distance of its phantasies
And brings life near in utter nakedness,
Making the cold reality too real."
Most of those who commit suicide, have this organ small
and Destructiveness large. To them, the future holds out
nothing sufficiently desirable to make life worth preserving.
If Conscientiousness and Credenciveness are large, they are
frequently disposed to religious melancholy, and have " a
fearful looking for of judgments to come," while the promi-
ses of the gospel afford them no consolation.
" On horror's head, horrors accumulate,"
till nature sinks in despair beneath the intolerable load, and
they rush into the arms of death in a frenzy of desperation.
When the organ is but little below medium, the effect is less
severe; then there is a disposition to look at the dark side
of every subject, and to foresee evils which exist only in
their own imagination. They are apt to think themselves
cursed with had luck; they not only see troubles in the
future, but they call up from the recollections of the past
HOPEFULNESS. 209
only the disagreeable incidents and circumstances, and
dwell upon them with mournful interest. They will re-
view their past lives and show that they have been conti-
nued scenes of misfortune. They seem to have a great
faculty of recollecting disagreeable things, and forgetting
those which are agreeable; and they frequently entertain
their friends with a doleful account of their misfortunes.
One of this kind of persons lately undertook to convince
me that he was naturally unlucky. " Not long since,"
said he, "I went a fishing, and every body in the boat
caught fish but me. I baited my hook just as (hey did—put
it down into the water in the same way, close by the side
of theirs—and yet caught no fish; while they hauled them
in all around me; and what was most provoking, there was a
kind of half fool with us, who had better luck than any of the
rest."' The friends of a young man once requested me to
explain, upon phrenological principles, his singular conduct.
He had considerable money, left him by his father, and was
surrounded by rich friends, who urged him to engage in
business; but he constantly refused, on account of his fears
that he should not succeed. He seemed averse to all kinds
of enterprise, in which the results were in any degree doubt-
ful. I found in him a very amiable organization, but Hope-
fulness deficient. Although his health was tolerably good,
he undertook to show to me the probability that he should
die with the consumption; as several of his relatives had
fallen victims to that disease, and another, whom he men-
tioned, would doubtless have met with the same fate, had he
not been killed by lightning.
Charles the Tenth of Sweden, must have possessed a
towering Hope and Firmness. Hope was Napoleon's
* star," and led him on, like an ignis fatuus, first to em-
pire and then to ruin. It was Hope and courage which dic-
tated the celebrated remark of Julius Csesar to the fisher-
18
210 PHRENOLOGY.
man, when the storm threatened them with destruction
" Fear not, you carry Csesar and his fortunes.
77
Hope is
the " good angel" which hovers around the couch of the
pious, and inspires them with dreams of future glory and
happiness.
" O Hope! sweet flatterer, whose delusive touch,
Sheds on the afflicted mind the balm of comfort,
Relieves the load of poverty; sustains
The captive, bending 'neath the weight of chains."
It is large in the young, and prompts them to plan with
reference to futurity—to live as though they should always
live, and always be prosperous—to put far away the evil
day, and exclaim: " To-morrow shall be as this day, and
more abundant." It sometimes bestows what is usually de-
nominated a " flow of spirits" which nothing can repress,
and which, even in its ebb, is above any thing like melan-
choly.
Those who have this organ large, are comparative stran-
gers to feelings of melancholy; they look forward to the
future with bright anticipations of happiness. If they have
been unfortunate, they flatter themselves that it is all for
the best—or that such bad luck cannot last long, but must
soon turn in their favor; they call up hundreds of instances
in which, under similar unfortunate circumstances, the re-
sult had proved favorable; and even let the worst happen,
they still have resources of happiness. When acquisitive-
ness is large, they engage with confidence in hazardous
speculations; and when small, they make the most of po-
verty—live contented, and free from care and anxiety. So
long as they can enjoy the present, they " take no thought
of the morrow, what they shall eat, nor what they shall
drink, nor yet for their clothing what they shall put on."
When they are in the greatest straits, they feel a hope that
by some means, they know not exactly how, they will be
HOPEFULNESS. 211
able to extricate themselves, and that all will yet be well.
Actuated by these feelings, they sometimes accomplish ap-
parent impossibilities—they will persevere in undertakings
%vhen all but themselves have become discouraged.
" Things out of hope are compass'd oft with venturing."
In the days of childhood we look forward to the happiness
which we expect to enjoy after we have come to maturity,
and when that time arrives we still have our greatest felicity
in anticipation. We still
11
Bid the lovely scenes at distance hail!"
The brilliant treasure is always almost within our reach, but
continually eludes our grasp. "Time rolls his ceaseless
course," and as we are eagerly engaged in the pursuit, our
progress is suddenly arrested by the certainty that we are
on the brink of death—but even then,
" Hope bears us through, nor leaves us when we die."
To the sincere Christian it holds out a prospect of eternal
felicity, and thus frequently makes death itself a pleasure.
But the Christian religion does not produce this propensity
it is only adapted to it; for the most superstitious savage
also has the same feeling: although it has not been directed
by Revelation to the Heaven of Heavens, yet
" Simple nature to his Hope has given,
Behind the cloud-topt hills an humbler heaven;
Some safer world in depth of wood embraced,
Some happier island in the watery waste,
Wnere slaves once more their native land behold,
No fiends torment, no Christians thirst for gold."
Some persons have the organ about medium, and if, from
extraordinary excitement, or disease, it is occasionally very
active, it is followed by a temporary melancholy, caused by
the reaction: and, in such cases, the higher the "spirits"
have been raised, the lower of course will be the subsequent
depression. Hope is more active in arterial, than in ve-
212 PHRENOLOGY.
nous temperaments. The propensity is also peculiarly lia-
ble to be affected by the disease of the respiratory, or the
digestive systems. It is a curious fact that in consumption,
Hope is strong, and in dyspepsia, it is weak, and the state
of this feeling is considered by physicians as one of the su-
rest indications of the nature of the disease.
Vitativeness, or the Love of Life, is a propensity con-
jectured by some phrenologians, to exist. Dr. A. Combe
suspects that its organ is at the base of the middle lobe, near
the mesial line, and that it can not be discovered during life.
I must confess that I can see no good reason for admitting
such a distinct power. I consider the love of life to be the
result of hope and reflection; and this is confirmed by the
fact that suicides generally have small Hopefulness. Per-
haps Sanitativeness, by giving a desire to preserve health
and soundness of body, and aversion to personal injury,
sometimes produces effects in animals that are mistaken for
a love of life; but Sanitativeness is manifested powerfully by
animals so low in the scale that they cannot be supposed to
know that they enjoy life. There are doubtless, organs
undiscovered, particularly at the base of the brain, which
relate to the corporeal necessities; but I shall treat only
of what is believed to be discovered, and leave the great
field of conjecture to those who are better qualified to culti-
vate it.
Talpyrancl. lltHftlui-
M'f Ha/tp lift! J(/tkr/'s M iff
S/fr/e.x l.ilh f'rrs.x /Ji.f/i
LOCATION* OF THE I P S E A L 8. 213
LOCATION OF THE IPSEALS.
I. Pnki:mativeness is situated a iittie below and before
Alimentiveness; and tends to give that square appearance
to the face which will be seen upon our Indians, as in Osceola,
and in Red Jacket's wife. The bones of the face render it
particularly difficult to determine the size of this organ; but
in extreme cases it is too apparent to be denied; and I have
also verified it by post mortem examinations.
II. Alimentiveness* is just before the external orifice of
the ear, and gives width to the face, so that when it is large,
and Chemicaiity is also large, and Pneumativeness small,
the face assumes the form of a wedge. It is generally large
on the German emigrants that are to be seen in Buffalo,
and moderate on the Yankees. Sometimes Alimentiveness
and Pneumativeness are both very large, and the Intellect
small, and then the bones of the face will be crowded for-
ward and laterally outward, so as to make the face appear
very large compared with the forehead; such is the case
with Mrs. Rapp, and with most of the Indians.
III. Sanitativeness produces fullness and width in the
head just below Destructiveness, so as sometimes to make
the ears stand out like spread wings, and when small, the
ears are more parallel to the head, as in women.
IV. Destructiveness is just above the ear; in the brain
its convolution appears to be a mere continuation of Ali-
mentiveness. It gives width to the head, as in Armstrong
and Rapp, and in carniverous animals.
*It is difficult to decide which should be considered as first in the
order of arrangement, Alimentiveness or Pneumativeness.
214 PHRENOLOGY.
V. Combativeness is behind the ear, situated a little
higher than Destructiveness. It is frequently confounded
with the bony protuberances which are called the mastoid
process, and the crucial ridge which divides the cerebellum
from the cerebrum; but the organ is higher than these.
(See Decatur.) Observe also, in animals, the difference
in width and fullness between the ears—contrast the bull-
dog with the pointer, or the rabbit.
VI. Secretiveness is just above Destructiveness, nearly
parallel with it, and extending a little farther forward. (See
Talleyrand.)
VII. Cautiousness is easily determined, on account of
its great size, and the fact that in nearly all females it pre-
sents a distinct protuberance just above Combativeness. In
some persons, however, this protuberance is entirely want-
ing, as in Decatur, Paul Jones, and Gustavus Adolphus,
and then of course the organ is small. It is easily observed
on herbiverous animals.
VIII. Constructiveness is above and before Alimen-
tiveness, so as when large to give width to the lower part of
the forehead, as in Hogarth, and Perkins. It may be ob-
served on beavers and other animals of the rodentia class.
IX. Acquisitiveness is above Constructiveness, and a
little further back, as in Franklin.
X. Playfulness produces fullness in that part of the
forehead which is before Perfectiveness, at the outside of
Causality, and generally a little below it. Sometimes it
combines with the upper part of Tune, in such a manner
as to render it scarcely distinguishable from it. A correct
idea of its location, may be obtained by inspecting the fore-
head of Hogarth, Franklin, Sterne, Voltaire, or Democri-
tus.
XI. Perfectiveness is situated just above and before
Acquisitiveness, below Credenciveness, and before and a
J'lateJV.
ffntfarlh 'rrkrrt^
LOCATION OF THE IPSEALS. 215
little below Hopefulness. See the head of any celebrated
poet, or artist, or of any man who was remarkable for a
love of improvement, whether of a physical, moral, or in-
tellectual kind. See the head of De Witt Clinton,* of Bry-
ant, or of Shakspeare.
XII. Hopefulness.—I find this organ situated a little
lower than it is generally marked by practical phrenologians.
It is directly above the ear, below Submissiveness, and be-
hind Credenciveness. In passing the fingers along from
Cautiousness to Perfectiveness, if Hopefulness is small and
Cautiousness large, a depression will be felt at the upper
front part of Cautiousness and the back part of Perfective-
ness; but if large, and Cautiousness moderate, the upper
part of the head will approximate in form to an eggf
and
be fuller in the middle. (See Talleyrand.)
*The likeness of Clinton in the plate, was copied from a miniature
in the possession of Geo. W. Clinton, Esq., of Buffalo.
CHAPTER VIII.
SOCIAL PROPENSITIES.
It seems to me that no science exhibits a parallel with
Phrenology, in point of harmony and connection of its ele-
mentary principles. We have seen the manner in which
the Intellectual and Ipseal powers commence with the sim-
plest forms of organization, and gradually rise, assuming
higher and more complicated functions, until the summit of
human knowledge and happiness is gained. The arrange-
ment of the Socials, is, if possible, still more beautiful. I find
them developed in three Groups.
First—The Establishing Group, the aim of which is
to lay the foundations of society
1st. Amativeness.
2d. Parentiveness.
3d. Inhabitiveness.
4th. Adhesiveness.
Second—The Governing Group, the design of which
is to govern society with popularity, firmness and justice
5th. Imperativeness.
6th. Approbativeness.
7th. Firmness.
8th. Conscientiousness.
Third—The Conforming Group, is designed to perfect
the system of society, by obedience to government, conde-
19
218 PHRENOLOGY.
scension and kindness to all our associates, and conformity
to their manners, habits and opinions
9th. Submissiveness.
10th. Kindness.
11th. Imitativeness.
12th. Credenciveness.
Every function of the human constitution, when properly
executed, contributes to produce the happiness of the indi-
vidual. To this rule there is no exception; and in this
sense all the powers of the mind may be said to be selfish
in their nature: even Kindness, a propensity which is by
all phrenologians considered eminently disinterested, is in
this sense as purely selfish as Acquisitiveness; since to
those in whom it predominates, nothing gives so much plea-
sure as the opportunity and ability to gratify the feelings of
others. The Creator, by a most admirable contrivance, has
so framed the human mind, that man, in order to enjoy
happiness himself, is compelled to promote the happiness of
others. To accomplish this end, the Social propensities
were bestowed; and although their operation augments the
happiness of self, their aim is the benefit of society.
ESTABLISHING, OR DOMESTIC GROUP.
1ST. AMAT1VENESS.
Be fruitful, multiply, and replenish the earth. Genesis.
This is the propensity to propagate the species. There is
no organ in the whole phrenological system that is of greater
importance, none which has a more powerful effect upon
AMATIVE NESS. 219
human character and human happiness, and none the bear-
ings and relations of which are more extensive than this.
In all animals, especial care has been taken to prevent the
extinction of the race: the entire cerebellum being, so
far as we know, the organ of Amativeness. In some adults
it constitutes about one sixth of the whole cerebral mass,
but in children it is frequently not more than one twentieth;
this is the principal cause of the small size of their necks.
The cerebellum does not increase much until the age of
puberty, it then begins to expand, and nearly doubles in
size between the ages of ten and twenty: the character
during this time, undergoes a corresponding change: the
opposite sex, which before were viewed without partiality,
become now extremely interesting; and an indescribable
charm seems to be thrown around them. Their voices are
enchanting, their forms appear exquisitely lovely, and their
favoring smile bewitching beyond all power of expression.
Unconscious of the nature of the feeling that inspires them,
they only know that their greatest bliss is in each other's
society; their highest ambition to gain each other's love;
and the most dreadful of all apprehensions that of bestowing
their affections without a return. " Love," says the Count
De Segur, " creates for us a new world, inhabited by two
beings, one of which is to us the whole universe; for that
being alone, do we value our wealth, our talents, and even
our virtue. We prize no worth in ourselves but that which
pleases this being: time seems to linger when it is absent,
and fly when it is present; we experience that which Ma-
dame de Lambert says: ' we do not find the hours sufficiently
long when we have to dedicate them to the beloved one.'
But whence comes so sudden a change in the existence of
the youth? What has subdued his will, tamed his boldness,
overpowered him, and triumphed over his independence?
Is it a being more enlightened, more virtuous, or more
220 PHRENOLOGY.
powerful than himself? No! a very child in purity and
power: a young female. She has no other weapon than
her looks, no other power than her charms; but she has
beauty, and youth imagines that whoever possesses it, is
endowed with all perfection. Even wisdom yields blush-
ingly to her empire; and the wise La Bruyere could not
refrain from saying, '
A beautiful face is the most enchan-
ting sight, and the sound of the voice of our beloved is the
sweetest of melodies.*
""
A large developement of this organ explains the myste-
rious fascination which some persons possess, who are not
endowed with more than a medium share of other agreea-
ble qualities. It explains why we often see marriages of
the most opposite characters. The amiable, virtuous, and
talented, united to the morose, unprincipled and ignorant,
without any other cause being alledged than pure love. If
warned by their friends that they are rushing to their ruin,
they cling desperately to the fatal hope, that by the fabled
omnipotence of love, they shall by some means, they know
not exactly how, escape (he threatened danger, and sail
happily down the stream of life. At all events, spite of the
remonstrances of friends, or even the pleadings of their own
better judgment, they are determined to run the hazard of
the die; and they only repent of their rashness when pover-
ty, disgrace, and finally perhaps desertion, extinguishes
the last faint embers of their expiring hopes. But still the
lamp of love burns on, and the deserted one exclaims,
11 With all thy faults, J love thee still."
Or in the language of Byron,
" Though 1 cannot be beloved, still let me love."
It may be objected, that this ardent attachment is not pro-
duced by Amativeness, without being combined with Adhe-
siveness. This is true, but neither can Adhesiveness pro-
duce this effect without Amativeness. It is Adhesiveness
AMATIVE NESS. 221
that produces friendship, but it is Amativeness that directs
it to the other sex. So also the admiration of beauty origi-
nates in Perfectivcness, and it is Amativeness that directs it
towards the other sex
" And then the lover,
Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
Made to his mistress' eyebrow,"
can gaze for hours upon a form which before would scarce-
ly have attracted his attention. Milton represents Adam
as exceedingly enraptured with the beauty of Eve, when
first she made her appearance in Paradise:
11
So lovely fair,
That what seemed fair in all the world, seemed now
Mean, or in her summed up, in her contained,
And in her looks, which from that time infused
Sweetness into my heart, unfelt before,
And into all things from her air inspired
The spirit of love and amorous delight.
***** On she came,
Led by her Heavenly Maker, though unseen,
And guided by his voice; nor uninformed
Of nuptial sanctity, and marriage rites:
Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye,
In every gesture dignity and love.
* * * * Here passion first I felt,
Commotion strange! Jn all enjoyment else
Superior and unmoved; here only weak
Against the charm of beauty's powerful glance."
The adaptation of Amativeness to the admiration of per-
sonal beauty, seems wisely designed to prevent the trans-
mission of deformed and imperfect bodily organizations to
posterity. It is not the effect of mere youthful fancy, but
was implanted in the mind for a highly useful purpose; and
therefore should be by no means discouraged; on the con-
trary, it seems to be of the very highest importance that it
19*
222 PHRENOLOGY.
should be properly directed; and just ideas of what consti-
tutes beauty of constitution, should be early inculcated.
This subject teaches us, that the knowledge of the princi-
ples upon which physical and mental energy and harmony
depend, cannot be too highly appreciated as a branch of
education.
The organ under consideration does not come into action
until the individual has arrived at years of discretion, and
is capable of directing it in a proper manner. There is
therefore, abundant time and opportunity, previously to pre-
pare the minds of the young, so as effectually to avoid the
natural punishment which necessarily follows the violation
of the laws of hereditary descent.
The influence of Amativcness is thus shown to be power-
ful, and highly beneficial to social intercourse. The effects
which follow its deficiency, may be observed in the pecu-
liarities of a majority of those who have voluntarily lived
unmarried beyond middle age. They are generally very
particular in their choice, not looking at their compan-
ions with the partial eyes of true lovers, which can some-
times
" See Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt."'
They go about their love affairs as coolly and deliberately
as they would about a pecuniary arrangement; and consider
matrimony rather as a means of advancing their interests,
or gratifying ambition, than as the means of enjoying do-
mestic happiness. They are often excessively prudent,
formal, and ceremonious; and have the faculty of perceiving
that a great many things are extremely indecorous and
shocking, which others look upon with innocent indifference.
They are well characterised by a single line of Burns:
" Their greatest merit is a want of passion,"
and therefore they deserve but little credit for the command
they appear to possess over their feelings. The unforgiving
PARENTIVENESS. 223
spirit of censoriousness with which they frequently comment
upon the errors of others, proceeds from a large Conscien-
tiousness and Imperativeness, unbalanced by even a salu-
tary developement of Amativeness and Kindness.
I seldom find a person possessing much energy of cha-
racter, who is deficient in this propensity. It seems to
give activity to Combativeness, and is generally accom-
panied with a large developement of that organ. Males,
among all animals, manifest it in a greater degree than
females; and I have seldom found it very large in females
without observing at the same time an uncommon manifes-
tation of the other masculine traits.
2D. PARENTIVENESS, OR PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
" My dear babe,
Who, capable of no articulate sound,
Mars all things with his imitative lisp,
How he would place his hand beside his ear,
His little hand, the small forefinger up,
And bid us listen! And I deem it wise
To make him Nature's Play-mate. He knows well
The evening star; and once, when he awoke
In most distressful mood (some inward pain
Had made up that strange thing, an infant's dream)
1 hurried with him to our orchard plot,
And he beheld the moon; and hushed at once,
Suspends his sobs, and laughs most silently,
While his fair eyes, that swam with undropt tears,
Did glitter in the yellow moon-beam! Well
It is a father's tale." Coleridge.
The first propensity of the Social Class, is manifested by
every species of organized beings in nearly an equal degree;
224 PHRENOLOGY.
but the parental instinct, of which this is the organ, is mani-
fested so slightly by the lowest animals, as to render its
existence in some of them very doubtful. Fishes take no
notice of their young; the crocodile lays its eggs in the
sand and leaves the sun to hatch them; the male even
preys upon them, until they are grown too old and tough for
him to masticate. Birds, with ^ew exceptions, are tender of
their young; but the mammalia, which are the highest class
of animals, have received their name from the distinguish-
ing peculiarity of their constitutions, that they are endowed
with an additional organ for the secretion of milk to nour-
ish their young. It is on this account that those aquatic
animals that give milk, are not classed with fishes. The
whale is remarkable for attachment to its offspring, and is
generally peaceable, except when its young are in danger,
and then it has been known to turn upon the whalemen, and
strike a large ship with such force as to cause it to sink in
a few moments. The bear, rough as he is—and tigers,
cruel and bloodthirsty beyond all other beasts of prey, are
yet careful of their young, and frequently exhibit for them
a fondness almost equal to that of human beings. The
longer the young of animals are in arriving at maturity,
the more weak and helpless their condition at birth, the
more strong and active is the manifestation of maternal
Parentiveness. The natural history of the dog, fox, and
monkey, are illustrative of this fact. Dr. Gall first had his
attention directed to this organ, by finding it large upon
monkeys; and at the same time, a clergyman reminded
him of the remarkable tenderness which those animals be-
stow upon their young. The adaptation of Parentiveness
to the condition of the young, explains the well known fact,
that children of imperfect health, or deformed bodies, re-
ceive from the mother a degree of lender regard, proportion-
ate to their helplessness.
PARENT1VEVE8S. 225
It is much the largest in the female sex—they upon whom
devolves the care of raising the young, and implanting the
first seeds of intelligence and virtue. Who has not felt the
influence of a mother's love, and fled from the stern rebuke
of an angry father, to take shelter behind the bosom of
maternal indulgence? Even when compelled by a sense
of duty to administer punishment, she does so with such
evident reluctance as to convince the sufferer that she
would gladly refrain, if she could do so consistently with
her regard to the future welfare of her child. This awakens
a feeling of genuine repentance, more certainly than any
degree of severity would do, if inflicted in a tyrannical man-
ner. When, however, Parentiveness is so much developed
as to be ungovernable by the higher powers, the conse-
quence is a fatal indulgence towards the child; encouraging
him in vice and even in crime, which a salutary correction
might have prevented, if seasonably applied.
This is certainly one of the most amiable traits in the
human character; and when the organ is largely developed
in a man, it gives a gentleness to his manner which renders
him very agreeable to young persons. The president of
a college is seldom popular, if this is small; but when large,
he feels a fatherly interest in the welfare of his pupils, which
manifests itself in such a manner as generally to win their
Adhesiveness in return. Governors, school teachers, and
all persons in situations where authority over juniors is to be
exercised in a discretionary manner, need the softening influ-
ence of this propensity, to prevent them from acting with too
much harshness and severity.
When the organ is very large in persons who have no
children of their own, substitutes are frequently adopted;
orphan children are thus sometimes better provided for than
they would have been had they never lost their parents.
Children that have been left by their cruel mothers to per-
226 PHRENOLOGY.
ish, have frequently found in strangers the most affectionate
of parents. The fondness of little misses for dolls, and the
affection lavished by older ladies upon pets, such as lap-
dogs, kittens, and even plants, is caused by Parentiveness,
when it has no more proper object with which it can be gra-
tified; but as soon as the care of an infant devolves upon
one of them, she immediately neglects all her former pets.
To those females who have the organ very large, there is
a feeling of delight experienced in taking a beautiful infant
into their aims, which a man who has the organ small
cannot understand. I think Philoprogenitiveness too long a
name, and have therefore adopted that of Parentiveness.
3d. inhabitiveness.
When I have gazed
From some high eminence on goodly vales,
And cots and villages embowered below,
The thought would rise that all to me was strange
Amid the scenes so fair, nor one small spot
Where my tired mind might rest, and call it home. Southey.
I consider this the propensity to fix upon some particular
spot for a residence. Out of Amativeness and Parentive-
ness arises the necessity for Inhabitiveness. Animals that
have young, and nourish them, must have a place for them
to which they can regularly return from their ramblings in
quest of food. Nothing can afford stronger evidence of the
existence of this propensity, than the fact that migratory
animals return thousands of miles to inhabit the same spot
that they did the year before: in doing this, they have no
INHABITIVENESS. 227
apparent motive but attachment to the place: it cannot be
to find food, for they often pass other locations which are
superior in this respect to their own homes: nor can it be
attachment to their former companions, for they go with
them and return with them. They pause not in their jour-
ney, any longer than is absolutely necessary for rest and
food; and when they arrive at their former habitations, they
go not beyond. In many instances, they not only return to
the same country, but to the same tree, or bank, or house,
and even to the same nest, repair it, re-occupy it, and defend
it from intruders at the hazard of their lives. Cats are no-
toriously attached to places, and dogs to persons. The cat
will leave all her old friends, and taking her kittens in her
mouth, return several miles to her wonted residence; but
the dog will leave every thing behind him, to follow his
master. What kind of place shall be chosen for a "local
habitation," depends upon the other powers; all other things
being equal, animals generally fix upon those places which
are best adapted to gratify the Corporeal Range. Some
inhabit water, some land, and some both; and they seem to
take to their native element by an instinctive power, over
which education has no control: the duckling, though hatch-
ed by a hen, plunges into the water in spite of the parental
authority, or the most earnest entreaties of the alarmed
mother. I think the organ is generally larger in women
than in men, although Dr. Spurzheim has expressed a diffe-
rent opinion. Dr. Gall found it large on animals that were
fond of high places, but what he observed was probably a
combination of Inhabitiveness with Imperativeness. The
organ is generally small on the Indians, and large on the
Negroes. The former lead a wandering life, and the latter
never have; but on the contrary, when forced from home,
they frequently die of nostalgia, or homesickness.
It is this which inspired the author of the "Iron bound
228 PHRENOLOGY.
Bucket," and of " Home, sweet Home." Milton represents
Adam as exclaiming,
" And must I leave thee, paradise!
Thee, native soil," &c.
Byron says:
il
There was something in my native air,
That buoyed my spirits up."
Coleridge exclaims:
u My native land!
Filled with the thought of thee this heart was proud;
Yea, mine eyes swam with tears."
The prophet of Israel gives a forcible expression of this feel-
ing: *« When I forget thee, O Jerusalem, may my tongue
cleave to the roof of my mouth, and my right hand forget
her cunning."
Mr. George Combe, observing that persons who have this
organ large are disposed to concentrate their minds upon
particular subjects, and that those who have it small "shift
from topic to topic, without regard to natural connection,"
has named it the organ of Concentrativeness; and gives his
views at some length in his " System of Phrenology." He
admits with Spurzheim, that it produces a disposition to
dwell in particular localities, but thinks that Inhabitiveness
is only one of the modes in which Concentrativeness mani-
fests itself. Dr. Spurzheim, in the last edition of his work
on Phrenology, makes a very able defence of Inhabitive-
ness, and expresses himself in decided opposition to the
peculiar views of Mr. Combe. After much examination
and reflection on this point, 1 am satisfied that Mr. Combe
is correct in his observations, but mistaken in his conclu-
sions. I can easily conceive, that an individual who is con-
tinually moving about from place to place, and changing his
position, so that new scenes and objects are continually
presenting themselves to his senses, and giving variety to
his thoughts, will be likely to " shift from topic to topic" in
INHABITIVENESS. 229
conversation. And on the other hand, a person whose
Inhabitiveness is so large as to prevent him from thus con-
tinually changing his scene of operations, and who habitually
fixes himself in an agreeable position, and continues to oc-
cupy it, his attention must necessarily be confined to a limi-
ted number of objects, and those must be a long time before
him—the subject of contemplation when at leisure, and of
occupation when at labor: his conversation being but the
expression of his thoughts, would of course partake of the
same continuous and concentrated character. All the pro-
ductions of wandering people, are temporary and incomplete;
all they do and say is characterized by a want of that degree
of perfection, which can result only from long continued
thought and action, with reference to one subject. I think
this in part explains why the Negroes, though much infe-
rior to the Indians in many respects, build up the institu-
tions of society much more permanently, under the same
circumstances.
In England, where every man is necessarily limited in his
operations to a comparatively small circle, every kind of
production—in agriculture, art, science, or literature—is of
a more complete and finished character than in this country,
where every thing is laid out on an extensive scale, but
scarcely any thing is completed. The Englishman bestows
the same amount of labor upon one acre of land; that the
American does upon ten; and Washington Irving justly
ridicules the Yankee for building a large house and finish-
ing only a part. The same fault pervades almost every
thing in our country; which is doubtless owing to the un-
steadiness of the inhabitants in regard to their habitations;
and to their not being confined within a sufficiently limited
sphere. The frequent change of habitation, or the too great
extension of the field of operations, produces unsteadiness
and changeableness in all the habits and occupations of life,
20
230 PHRENOLOGY.
and is very unfavorable to concentrated thought, or feeling,
or action. Inhabitiveness therefore, by producing fixedness
of place, contributes in a great measure to produce, though
incidentally, the concentrating effect observed by Mr.
Combe. The feeling produced by this propensity, has been
called amor patria—love of country.
4th. adhesiveness.
Entreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee:
for whither thou goest I will go; and where thou lodgestl will lodge:
thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. Where thou
diest will I die, and there will 1 be buried: the Lord do so to nee and
more also if aught but death part thee and me. Ruth.
This is the propensity to become attached to individuals,
and to form friendly associations. Some have attempted to
explain the existence of society, by supposing that man
early perceived the necessity of uniting for the mutual as-
sistance of each other: but a reference to the natural history
of animals, proves beyond all question, that it depends upon
a distinct propensity. We see the very lowest animals
uniting for the production of their offspring, and then leav-
ing them to the care of Providence. Next we see the female
lingering around her eggs, watching with maternal solici-
tude over their safety, imparting the warmth of her own
body to kindle the spirit of life, and then attending to their
wants until they are sufficiently advanced to provide for
themselves. Each one then acts for himself without any
assistance, and spends the rest of life without any perma-
nent association with the rest of his species; bent continu-
ally upon the destruction of others, or flying in alarm to
ADHESIVENESS. 231
save himself from the jaws even of his own kindred. One
step higher, and wc see them choosing a place of residence
where the young are reared by the combined assistance of
both the parents, and the whole family live together for the
season, in perfect harmony. Still higher, we find them
choosing their mates for life, forming themselves into large
and complicated communities, and building extensive vil-
lages. Beavers, live in communities of ** a hundred and fifty
or two hundred, who all, at first, labor jointly in raising
their great public building, and afterwards in select tribes,
or companies, in making particular habitations. In this
society, however numerous, perpetual peace is maintained;
their union is cemented by common labors, and is perpe-
tuated by mutual convenience, and the abundance of pro-
visions which they amass and consume together. A simple
taste, moderate appetite, and an aversion to blood and car-
nage, render them destitute of the ideas of rapine and war."
"Each cabin has its own magazine of provisions, which is
proportioned to the number of its inhabitants, who have all
a common right to the store, and never pillage their neigh-
bors. Some villages are composed of twenty or twenty-five
cabins; the smallest cabins contain two, four, or six, and the
largest twenty or thirty beavers. As to males and females,
they are almost always equally paired." It is supposed by
some, that matrimony is purely an artificial institution; but
the fox, and several other animals, continue for life attached
to the same 'mate, both male and female showing great
fondness for the young. The love of their parents, which
is manifested by the young of most of the higher animals,
is owing to this propensity. Some species of monkeys, as
soon as they are born, get upon the mother's back, em-
brace them around the neck, and are thus carried about,
only dismounting to feed. Infants manifest a similar pro-
pensity to embrace their parents, and their mates. At that
232 PHRENOLOGY.
helpless and dependent age, Adhesiveness is much more
active, and the organ is considerably larger than it is after-
wards, when they are capable of providing for themselves.
As soon as they are at the age of puberty, and the cerebel-
lum begins to be developed, Adhesiveness is directed to
the opposite sex; so that a man will then " leave his father
and mother and cleave to his wife.
7
'
Attachment, in this
case, has the same organ but a different object: accordingly
it will be observed, that those individuals who have been
most remarkable for filial affection, will (all other things
equal,) afterwards manifest the most conjugal affection.
Adhesiveness is much the largest in females; and this amia-
ble trait is certainly much more strongly manifested by
them, than by man. When king David was lamenting the
untimely death of his friend Jonathan, the strongest lan-
guage in which he could express himself, was " thy love
for me was great, passing the love of woman." When po-
verty and disgrace and sickness have successively added to
the accumulating burden of a man's sorrows, his wife is still
true to her first love. Even after he has deserted himself,
and become steeped in crimes of the blackest die; condemn-
ed by justice and thrown into prison; or is embittering her
life by his tyranny, still how constant is her love! how
powerful its hold upon her mind! She still clings to him
with fondness, and in all the ardor of her soul, responds to
the sentiment of Moore
" O what was love made for, if 'tis not the same
Through joy and through sorrow, through glory and shame".
I know not, J ask not if guilt's in that heart,
I but know that I love thee whatever thou art."
IMPERATIVENESS. 233
GOVERNING GROUP.
5th. imperativeness, or self-esteem.
When Csesar says, Do this, it is performed. Shakespeare.
This is the propensity to command—to take the lead, and
direct the operations of society—to assume authority over
others, and expect obedience and submission. It is mani-
fested in a greater or less degree, by all social animals. In
complicated communities, it is absolutely necessary to main-
tain order. When a society is constituted of but one pair,
the male always takes the lead. Those animals that asso-
ciate in droves, or packs, always choose a leader; or rather
one of the number assumes the command, and the rest, as
if instinctively conscious of his superiority, tacitly submit
to his government. The one that has proved, by his former
services, that he is the strongest, bravest, and most saga-
cious, is generally the chief. If a stranger is introduced,
he must either submit to the " powers that be," or prove
the justice of his claim to superiority, by a " trial ofbattle."
This is particularly the case with dogs, game-cocks, and
cows. It is precisely the same with boys; the one who
combines the most physical strength, with the most mental
energy, is their leader by common consent: and if a stran-
ger comes among them, he is ranked according to his rela-
tive powers; after having sometimes fought a dozen pitched
battles to settle the difficult question, growing out of his
claims to precedence. Among all classes of men and women,
the same propensity, although assuming a thousand different
forms and modifications, may be distinctly recognized.
20*
234 PHRENOLOGY.
We see the aspiring Csesar, manifesting in his youth, the
same ambitious qualities that distinguished him when a man.
" I had rather, n said he, " be the first man in yonder vil-
lage, than the second in Rome." Alexander, when a mere
boy, assumed the command of his father's veteran troops,
and led them on to the conquest of the world. Dionysius,
the tyrant, when driven into exile, turned pedagogue to
gratify his ruling passion, and was again so unhappy as to
find his subjects rebellious. The manner in which this pro-
pensity is manifested, depends upon circumstances, and the
organization with which it is combined. Some, with low
intellect, and very large Combativeness, take the lead in
fighting like dogs: with the higher Intellectuals and Ipseals,
they extend their operations, until like Alexander, Csesar, or
Napoleon, they aspire to universal dominion. We often see
individuals manifesting this propensity in a most ridiculous
manner, putting themselves forward, confidently assuming
superiority, and getting themselves into conspicuous situa-
tions, while it is obvious to all but themselves, that they are
miserably deficient in the qualities necessary to fill an impor-
tant station. It is astonishing, to see the success which some-
times attends the ambitious efforts of men of inferior talents,
when acting under the influence of Imperativeness. Others,
with gigantic intellects, give way before them, astounded at
their impudent pretensions, and disgusted with their egotism
and ignorance. If their favorite hobby is one which is compli-
cated and difficult to be understood, such as theology, medi-
cine, or politics, they generally gain the ignorant over to
their opinions, by the loud, confident, and imperious manner
in which they assert them; and the supercilious haughtiness
with which they bear themselves towards others.
The feeling which this propensity produces, has been de-
nominated pride, haughtiness, and self-esteem. I have al-
ready shown the impropriety of naming the organs according
IMPERATIVENESS. 235
to the feelings which they produce, and it will therefore be
obvious, why I have rejected the name of Self-esteem, which
Dr. Spurzheim adopted for this organ. I consider self-esteem
as the effect which under some circumstances, this propensity
produces upon the intellect. It disposes an individual to
look around upon his fellow men, and compare their power
with his own; and in doubtful cases, it inclines him to de-
cide the question of superiority in his own favor. Self-esti-
mation therefore, is a compound intellectual process, which
goes on under the influence of Imperativeness: but it seems
a great error to call this the organ of Self-esteem. Impera-
tiveness may be very active without its possessor thinking
of himself at all; for instance, a military commander may,
under its influence, be exercising the most arbitrary authori-
ty over his troops, without thinking of any thing but the
success of his operations. Again, self-esteem is only one
of the feelings which it produces: haughtiness—contempt
desire to command; these are feelings which originate in
Imperativeness, and which are essentially different from
self-esteem. If we examine the busts or portraits of all
those master spirits of ages past who have assumed to dic-
tate the operations of others; either in the cabinet, the army,
the church, the bar, or the academy, we invariably find a
large developement of this organ. It is frequently very
active in the insane, and is liable to be separately diseased,
producing the most singular exhibitions of imperiousness.
Gall, Spurzheim, and Combe, mention several instances in
which they have found it largely developed in such patients.
I have also seen similar cases. A few years ago, an insane
man escaped from his friends, and took his station upon one
of the peaks of the N. Y. highlands. Assuming that he was
the Deity, he began to give orders to the whole universe; he
called in a loud voice, "Attention! all creation! in battal-
lions to the right wheel! march!"
236 PHRENOLOGY.
Imperativeness produces a love of independence—it loves
authority too well to delegate it unnecessarily to others. It
must consequently be small in the Africans and Asiatics,
who permit one individual to hold despotic sway over mil-
lions; and it must also be large in the Indians, Swiss, and
British, who manifest a jealousy of their rights, and an
aversion to the encroachments of their rulers. Combined
with Inhabitiveness it produces patriotism, such as was mani-
fested by Washington, Adams, Kosciusko and Tell. They
not only loved their country, but longed to see it indepen-
dent, and its rights respected by other nations.
6th. approbativeness.
The Duke, great Bolingbroke,
Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed,
Which his aspiring rider seemed to know,
With slow, but stately pace, kept on his course,
While all tongues cried—" God save thee, Bolingbroke!"
He, from one side to the other turning,
Bare-headed, lower than his proud steed's neck,
Bespake them thus: —" I thank you, countrymen:"
And thus still doing, thus he passed along. Shakespeare.
This is the propensity to act in such a manner as to gain
the good opinions of society—to acquire popularity—ap-
plause—reputation—fame—honor—distinction. Its main de-
sign, is to render the government agreeable to the governed.
It is not sufficient for one member of society to assume
authority over the rest, and attempt to maintain it by supe-
rior power; but it is necessary to govern in such a manner
as to please a majority; the ruler must have the esteem of
APPRO BATIVENESS. 237
his people; his throne must be founded upon their affec-
tions; he cannot under ordinary circumstances, elevate him-
self above them, until he has first rendered himself popular.
This propensity is therefore, superadded to Imperativeness,
to enable the individual who aspires to direct the affairs of
society, to do it in such a manner as not to give unnecessary
offence. It checks the tyrant in his course, by suggesting
to his mind,
" The thought of what men's tongues will say."
But if this organ is small, he will reply like Richard the
Third:
** Well, let them say it, they can but say
I had the crown."
The most despotic governments in the world, as well
as the most republican, were originally founded upon the
favor of the people. Csesar was thrice offered a " king-
ly crown, which he did thrice refuse," only because he
doubted if public opinion was sufficiently ripe, for the ulti-
mate purposes of his ambition. Cromwell could never have
driven out the long parliament at the point of the bayonet,
and usurped despotic power, had he not first won the ap-
probation of his soldiers. Nor could Napoleon have moun-
ted the Imperial throne, had he not been popular with the
French army. The extent to which Imperativeness may
stretch authority, depends in a great measure upon the pre-
vious success of Approbativeness: the very same acts of
tyranny which Napoleon could perpetrate with impunity,
would have cost a Bourbon his sceptre, and perhaps his
life. Imperativeness and Approbativeness are twin organs,
closely connected in the brain; and in every well balanced
mind, these propensities mutually assist each other: their
combined operation constitutes ambition; which, when pro-
perly regulated, is not only useful and laudable, but abso-
lutely necessary to the well-being of society.
238 PHRENOLOGY.
Every political election, affords illustrations of the influ-
ence of these two propensities. The candidate, all other
things equal, who has the larger Approbativeness, will get a
majority of votes over one who has the larger Imperativeness.
The former will be smiling, bowing, deferential and polite,
will take great pains to render himself agreeable to the citi-
zens, by assurances of his intention to advance their inte-
rests, professions of regard for their welfare, and friendly
enquiries concerning their health, their families, their busi-
ness, &c: great care is at the same time taken to avoid
touching upon any topics calculated to rouse their prejudi-
ces; and to say nothing which, if reported, will be calcu-
lated to lower him in public estimation. He salutes his
acquaintances across the street, and pays the most particu-
lar regard to all the little ceremonies that indicate respect
and esteem. As soon however, as he becomes firmly sea-
ted in power, so as to be in a degree independent of those
who raised him, his Approbativeness has no longer its appro-
priate stimulus; Imperativeness is now in the ascendant,
and frequently the
"Proud man,
Clothed with a little brief authority,
Most ignorant of what he's most assured,
Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven
As make the angels weep."
The feeling which Approbativeness produces is called
vanity—love of approbation, &c.
11
The proud man," says Dr. Gall, " is imbued with a
sentiment of his own superior merit, and, from the summit
of his grandeur, treats with contempt or indifference all other
mortals. The vain man attaches the utmost importance to
the opinions entertained of him by others, and seeks with
eagerness to gain their approbation. The proud man ex-
pects that mankind will come to him and acknowledge his
APPROBATIVENESS. 239
merit. The vain man knocks at every door to draw atten-
tion towards him, and supplicates for the smallest portion
of honor. The proud man despises those marks of distinc-
tion, which on the vain man confer the most perfect delight.
The proud man is disgusted by indiscreet eulogiums. The
vain man inhales with ecstacy the incense of flattery, al-
though profusely offered, and by no very skilful hand."
Though Approbativeness was mainly designed to render
government popular, it forms numerous combinations with
other propensities, and is capable of being modified by cir-
cumstances so as to manifest itself in a thousand ways that
appear to have nothing to do with government; but we
must not confound the original design of a propensity with
its occasional manifestations under peculiar circumstances.
Mr. George Combe makes the following just remarks con-
cerning this propensity.
'.' There is a great difference in regard to the degree of
endowment of this faculty, in different individuals. Some
watch, with themost animated anxiety, every motion, and
every look, and intuitively feel when we approve or disap-
prove. When we approve, the eye sparkles, the counte-
nance opens, and the individual approaches us with a plea-
sing courtesy, expressive at once of the pleasure he has
received from our approbation, and of his desire to retain it.
He, on the other hand, in whom the faculty is naturally fee-
ble, shows, by the undisturbed fixture of his countenance,
that our censure and applause are alike unimportant to him.
When we censure, he stares us in the face, with indiffe-
rence, or gapes in stupid wonder.
"A due endowment of this faculty is indispensible to an
amiable character. It gives the desire to be agreeable to
others,—it is the drill-sergeant of society, and admonishes
us when we deviate too widely from the line of march of
our fellows,—it induces us to suppress numberless little
240 PHRENOLOGY.
manifestations of selfishness, and to restrain many peculiari-
ties of temper and disposition, from the dread of giving
offence, and therefore incurring disapprobation;—it is the
but upon which wit strikes, when, by means of ridicule, it
drives us from our follies. To be laughed at is worse than
death to a person in whom this sentiment is strong.
" The direction in which gratification of it will be sought,
will depend on the facilities with which it is combined in
the individual. If the moral sentiments and intellect be
vigorous, it will prompt to moral emulation and the desire
of honorable fame. It animates the poet, the painter, the
orator, the warrior, and the statesman. In some indivi-
duals it attains the height of a passion, and then glory is
pursued at the hazard of life and every enjoyment which it
affords, and fame is sought for even in the cannon's mouth.
If the lower propensities predominate, the individual may
be pleased by the reputation of being the best fighter, or
the greatest drinker of his circle.
" The feeling which is most commonly experienced, when
this organ is large, even when favorably combined with
other organs, is anxiety about what the world will think of
us. A youth in whom it is powerful cannot do this thing,
because every body will look at him; or cannot do the other,
because the people would wonder. In older persons, it
produces a fidgety anxiety about the opinions of the public,
or of the circle of acquaintances who compose the public,
to them. They imagine themselves continually before the
public eye, and that the world is occupied with little else
than weighing their motives, speculating on their conduct,
and adjusting the precise point in the scale of importance
and respectability at which they ought to be placed. A
great portion of this feeling, however, is the mere inspira-
tion of a very powerful Love of Approbation in their own
heads. The public are too much engrossed with themselves
APPROBATIVENESS. 241
and their own affairs, to bestow so minute and permanent a
degree of attention upon an individual. This anxiety about
public opinion, when excessive, is subversive of happiness
and independence. It renders the mere dicta of the society
in which the individual moves his code of morality, religion,
taste, and philosophy; and incapacitates him for upholding
truth or virtue, if disowned by those whom he imagines
influential or genteel. The want of philosophy of mind,
allows wide scope to the aberrations of this faculty, for in
the absence of well defined principles of taste and conduct,
individuals of high pretensions dictate with greater facility
fashions however absurd, which the herd of mankind follow.
" The distinguishing characteristics betwixt the disposi-
tion to oblige, conferred by this sentiment, and the feeling
of genuine kindness, which springs from Benevolence, is,
that Love of Approbation prompts us to do most for those
who least require our aid; whereas Benevolence takes ex-
actly the opposite direction."
" When the developement of Love of Approbation is ex-
cessive, while the regulating orga.is are deficient, it is the
cause of great unhappiness. It renders the little giri at
school miserable, if her dress and the style of living of her
parents be not equal to those of the parents of her associates.
It overwhelms the artist, author, or public speaker, with
misery, if a rival is praised in the journals in higher terms
than himself. A lady is tormented at perceiving, in the pos-
session of her acquaintance, finer dresses or equipages than
her own. It excites the individual to talk of himself, his
affairs, and connexions, so as to communicate to the au-
ditor vast ideas of his greatness or goodness: in short*
vanity is one form of its abuse. " Sir," says Dr. Johnson,
" Goldsmith is so much afraid of being unnoticed, that he
often talks, merely lest you should forget that he is in com*
pany." When not combined with Conscientiousness and
21
242 PHRENOLOGY.
Benevolence, it leads to feigned professions of respect and
friendship; and many manifest it by promises and invita-
tions, never intended to be fulfilled or accepted. It, as well
as Self-Esteem, prompts to the use of the first person; but
its tone is that of courteous solicitation, while the J of Self-
Esteem is presumptuous, and full of pretension."
" Philosophers and acute observers of human nature,
have long distinguished betwixt Pride and Vanity, but never-
theless, no error is more frequently committed by ordinary
minds than to confound them; and no mistake is more com-
mon than to imagine that beaux and belles, and all indivi-
duals very tasteful and particular about their personal ap-
pearance or equipages, are necessarily extremely conceited.
A large Love of Approbation and much Ideality, joined
with Individuality, which produces attention to details, and
Order, will, in general, gives rise to the passion for neat-
ness, propriety, and ornament; but such a combination, in
place of producing a proud and conceited character, inspires
with the very opposite disposition. I rarely see a dandy
who is not at bottom a polite, obliging, good-natured, but
probably weak individual; and it is only when large Self-
Esteem is added to the combination, and which is not an
indispensable ingredient in beauism, that the common
opinion will be justified by the result."
" The organ is possessed by the lower animals. The
dog is extremely fond of Approbation, and the horse dis-
plays the sentiment, not only in his sensibility to marks of
affection, but in his spirit of emulation in the race. Dr.
Gall mentions, that in the south of France, the peasants at-
tach a " bouquet'7
to the mules when they have acquitted
themselves well, and that the animals understand it as a
mark of approbation, and feel afflicted when it is taken
away."
FIRMNESS. 243
7th. firmness.
Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish, J am for the Declara-
tion. It is my living sentiment, and with the blessing of God it shall
be my dying sentiment; Independence now, and Independence for-
ever. Daniel Webster*
This is the propensity to maintain authority—to continue
in the position, or course, which Imperativeness assumes
to persevere in resolutions which relate to social intercourse.
Imperativeness aspires to establish government; Approba-
tiveness to render it popular; and Firmness to give it per-
manence, fixedness, and consistency. It differs from Com-
bativeness in being intended to benefit others, instead of
conquering them. It does not attack or oppose, but only
holds its own. No man can permanently establish the gov-
ernment of a nation, a church, or a family, who is deficient
in Firmness. It is larger in men than women, and contri-
butes more than any thing else to their universal superio-
rity in government. We frequently see a man with small
Imperativeness but powerful Firmness: he may be modest,
unassuming, and even cowardly, but still manifest the
greatest reluctance to yield his post. Danger, interest, or
duty, may induce him to give way, but he does it with the
most evident unwillingness; and returns again as soon as
the difficulty is removed. It is common to see a man with
very large Firmness and Combativeness, governed on ordi-
nary occasions by his wife, and even by his children; the
trouble of commanding and directing the affairs of others,
^Supposed speech of John Adams at the signing of the Declaration
of Independence.
-44 PHKENOL G Y.
is to him greater than the pleasure: but his Imperative
though small, will sometimes be excited: and when be does
take his stand he is like St. Helena in the midst of the ocean:
nothing can shake his purpose. Firm:. i sre in
our Indians, combined with Cautiousness an
and accordingly they fight in a cowardly manner: but if
taken prisoners, they die firmly at the stake, suffering the
oosrt cruel tor: 3ut uttering a word of complaint
7 haYe bee: fore the whites, but they
haye neyer been reduced to submission, or changed in their
manners, habits, or opin: Ne gro character is just
thereyerse: and the forms of their skulls pre?::.: a s.riking
contrast when compared with those of Indian? in mis region,
characters of those who have Firmness large, com-
bined with Imperatiyeness. seems to be stereotyped: they
si the influences which others bring to bear upon
them: whateyer notions they adopt in childhood, th
apt to hold through life; and it is therefore of the g:
importance that their first impressions are of a proper kind.
If they once acquire vicious habits, tl is ?ery difficult to
sals, .inishment. or entreaties are often
ineffectual: nothing but their own wills can change
wills: sometimes they can be man T
- falling in
with them, admitting their superiority, and appearing to
coincide with them, but at the same suggesting ertain
: :neir consideration, leaving the final de-
cision entirely to 1 leasure. They should be
7 1 ; il is though you taught them not,"'
and the are led to adopt, must
seem to be one of their own choice. One who has reflec-
tion, Secretiveness, and Cautiousness small, and Impera-
-s. Firmness, and Combativeness very large, wi
.petuous. and obstinate; with a
srreat propensity to goyern others, he will be incapable of
FIRMNESS. 245
governing himself: and will be easily duped by knaves,
whom he looks upon as immeasurably inferior to himself.
If several persons with large Firmness are associated, the
one who has it largest, and all other things equal, will have
the most influence; and the rest will yield a reluctant and
sullen submission. A knowledge of this principle is espe-
cially important to one who has the control of children: a
child with large Firmness, will readily yield to a man who
has it still larger; but will refuse, at the same time, to obey
one who has Firmness small, this is one reason why women
seldom can govern boys.
The feeling which Firmness produces, has been called
determination—infatuation—obstinacy. It is common for
phrenologians to speak of perseverance as the effect of
Firmness; but every one will persevere in gratifying his pre-
dominant propensities, whether he has the organ of Firm-
ness or not. He may be persevering in one pursuit and
vaccillating in another. Firmness may conduce to perse-
verance, but it does not alone produce it, except in regard
to government, or in those cases where the influence of
others is to be overcome. Hopefulness contributes to perse-
verance quite as much as Firmness, and in many instances
much more. Decision of character depends principally
upon Firmness, and is greatly increased by Hopefulness
and Combativeness.
It is curious that Lavater, the celebrated physiologist,
made the observation, that persons who were large in the
region of Firmness, were remarkable for obstinacy. He
also shows the skulls of several animals that are large in
the same part, particularly the swine and hyena.
" The mule has become a proverbial synonyme of olsti-
nate, probably because it resists ill treatment with firm-
ness, and is not easily compelled to deviate from the path
which it marks out for itself. It is, however, extremely
21*
246 PHRENOLOGY.
sure footed, and in most cases, the best judge of its own
movements. ' It is entertaining,' says a facetious traveller,
in describing a journey in the Alps, ' to observe the prudence
of these animals in making their way down the dangerous
rocks. They sometimes put their heads over the edge of
the precipice, and examine with anxious circumspection
every possible way by which they can descend, and at
length are sure to fix on that which, upon the whole, is the
best. Having observed this in several instances, I laid un-
bridle on the neck of my mule, and allowed him take his
own way, without presuming to control him in the smallest,
degree. This is doubtless the best method, and what I
recommend to all my friends in their journey through life,
when they have mules for their companions.'' "
The organ is large in the bust of Zeno, the founder of
the stoical philosophy, which teaches that a man should
bear misfortune and success, pleasure and pain, with indif-
ference. Also in Charles the Tenth of Sweeden, whose
whole history is a most astonishing proof, of what can
sometimes be achieved by a powerful constitution, with a
predominant Firmness. Junius Brutus, who condemned his
son to death for treason, has it very large, with small Paren-
tiveness, and large Inhabitiveness. Washington, John
Adams, John Q. Adams, and Jackson, have it larger than
the other U. S. Presidents. It is large in Byron, and also
in his wife; which accounts for the unyielding dispositions
of both. It is large in nearly all irreclaimable convicts,
ungovernable children, unamiable women, and tyrannical
men. Like every thing else in existence, though intended
for a blessing, it may be perverted to a curse.
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 247
Sth. conscientiousness.
Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the
things that, are God's.
This is the propensity to do justice—to act in such a
manner as to avoid violating the rights of others. It is de-
signed to confine the operations of each member of society
within his proper sphere. The Ipseal and Social propensi-
ties which I have already explained, are calculated to bring
mankind into continual intercourse; and as every one is
bent on gratifying his predominant powers, it must neces-
sarily happen, that several individuals will desire the same
object at the same time. Under such circumstances, it is
the province of Conscientiousness to cause a fair and just
decision to be made between the rival claimants, and to do
justice, even though self should be the greatest sufferer. It
frequently disposes the strong to surrender to the weak
the actual possessor to yield voluntarily to the rightful owner.
It prepares the mind to suffer pain, hunger, poverty, degra-
dation, disappointment, and even death, rather than obtain
happiness by unjust means. Conscientiousness is the senti-
nel which gives the alarm when self encroaches upon socie-
ty. It makes a man a coward when he is conscious that he
is in the wrong. It makes him unhappy in the midst of ill-
gotten gains ; and excites instinctively in his mind the
thought that he deserves punishment. " The wicked flee
when no man pursueth, but the righteous are as bold as a
lion." A man with large Conscientiousness, cannot fight
bravely when he knows that he is in the wrong. This is
probably owing to its intimate connection with Cautiousness
245 PHRENOLOGY.
and Hopefulness; for it produces a peculiar effect upon
both these propensities. When Cautiousness is large, and
Hopefulness small, it excites in the mind a melancholy
expectation of "judgment to come"' for past transgressions.
Such is the nature of Conscentiousness, that it is capable of
exciting Cautiousness and depressing Hopefulness, or the
contrary: these give it additional power, and enable it,
when disagreeably affected, to produce the feeling of re-
morse—the most horrible of all feelings which the human
mind is capable of experiencing. Conscious integrity, is
the agreeable feeling which follows the gratification of this
propensity, and nothing so prepares the mind for the enjoy-
ment of happiness of all kinds, as this emotion. It permits
the gratification of every propensity in a proper way, and
only restrains their excessive manifestations. When we
reflect that every excess is productive of unhappiness. we
must admit that Conscientiousness combined with an en-
lightened intellect, by restraining the abuses of all the other
propensities, and permitting their proper action, is their
surest guide to happiness. Cautiousness restrains the other
propensities from bringing injury upon self, and Conscien-
tiousness prevents them from bringing injury unjustly upon
others: and as injustice to others always recoils upon self,
there is a peculiar propriety in Conscientiousness bordering
as it does upon Cautiousness and Hopefulness. Conscien-
tiousness was intended for the benefit of society, but the
happiness of self is greatly dependent upon its proper exer-
cise. It is to the social system what the law of attraction
is to the planetary system, which not only keeps each planet
in its proper orbit and maintains them all in a just relation
to each other, but it gives solidity to each individual planet,
and balances its constituent elements, so as to produce
harmony and regularity in all its productions. Take away
from the planetary system the law of gravitation, and not
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 249
only would the different worlds of which it is composed,
" rush lawless through the sky, but each planet itself would
be dissolved, and its constituents mingled confusedly with
the general wreck of matter and the crush of worlds.
Precisely so with the laws which Conscientiousness im-
poses upon the social system; let them be entirely destroyed,
and not only would all society run lawless through the
world, but each individual would suffer a total wreck of hap-
piness; the other social propensities without Conscientious-
ness, would only be so many curses—they would bring
society together only to make them mutually miserable.
Let no one for a moment entertain the idea, that without
conscientious conduct he can ultimately be happy. It is
morally impossible: whatever his religious creed may be, or
whatever system of philosophy he may adopt to satisfy his
mind, the consequences will be the same; if he violates the
rights of others, he will certainly he punished, sooner or
later. It is now universally admitted, by all scientific men?
that the health and strength of the body depends upon the
harmony with which all its different parts perform their func-
tions: precisely so does the well-being of society depend
upon the harmony with which all its members perform their
functions as social beings. The regularity of the whole
depends upon the regularity of the members. If one organ
in the body ceases to perform its proper functions, or per-
forms them irregularly, the whole machine is affected, and
perhaps stopped in consequence: but does not that very
organ which originated the difficulty, suffer in common with
the rest ?
Conscientiousness is a governing propensit}T
. None need
it so much as those who make laws, and administer them.
If a monarch who possesses absolute power, is deficient in
this important quality, the consequences are of the most
extensive and disastrous kind to society; but if an obscure
250 PHRENOLOGY.
and powerless individual should lack Conscientiousness,
the greatest injury would be to himself; his superiors could
easily compel him to do right, even against his own inclina-
tion; or if he were refractory, he could be easily punished
or secured before much mischief had been produced. A
man therefore, with small Conscientiousness, may behave
with propriety, when, if he had the power to do wrong with
impunity, he would do so without hesitation. Washington
had a very large organ of Conscientiousness, but suppose
it had been small, what an immense amount of mischief
might he have done. Lafayette had it large, and his whole
life is an illustration of it. Napoleon had it moderate, and
the consequences, both to himself and the world are incalcu-
lable. Lord Bacon, whom Pope describes as
" The greatest, wisest, meanest of mankind,"
when occupying the highest judicial station in England, was
guilty of taking bribes, and notwithstanding his astonishing
intellect, ho fell like Lucifer from heaven, never to rise
again.
Imperativeness aspires to govern society—Approba-
tiveness to obtain their consent and favor—Firmness to
render the govornment permanent—and Conscientiousness
to render it just. No man should be elevated to an impor-
tant station in government, who is deficient in this propen-
sity; and when phrenology becomes more generally under-
stood, 1 am confident that no man will receive a nomina-
tion who has not a good developement of Conscientiousness,
whatever other qualifications he may possess. 1 know some
persons who render themselves so extremely agreeable, so
amiable, so kind, and intelligent, that scarely any one is
willing to admit that they are dishonest; and yet they can
-never be relied upon under tempting circumstances. There
are many causes which may be supposed to prevent a man
from openly doing intentional wrong; such are Cautiousness,
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 251
Approbativeness, Secretiveness, &c, but there is only one
cause to induce a man under all circumstances to do jus-
tice, and that is Conscientiousness. Mr. Combe makes the
following very just remarks upon this organ:
"It produces the feeling of obligation, incumbency, right
and wrong, for which we have no definite expression in the
English language; just as Ideality produces the sentiment
of Beauty. Justice is the result of this sentiment, acting
in combination with the intellectual powers. The latter
investigate the motives and consequences of actions; but,
after having done so, they, of themselves, experience no
emotions. In surveying human conduct, however, as soon
as the intellect has thoroughly penetrated into the springs
from which it proceeds, a feeling of decided approval or
condemnation, distinct from all other sentiments, and from
pure intellection, arises in the mind; and this is produced
by the faculty of Conscientiousness.
*' This faculty is of the very highest importance as a
regulator of all the ethers. If Combativeness be too ac-
tive, Conscientiousness prescribes a limit to its indulgence;
it permits defence, but no malicious aggression: if Acqui-
sitiveness urge too keenly, it reminds us of the rights of oth-
ers: if Benevolence tend towards profusion, this faculty
issues the admonition, be just before you are generous: if
Ideality aspire to its high delights, when duty requires labo-
rious exertions in a humble sphere, Conscientiousness sup-
plies the curb, and bids the soaring spirit stoop its wing.
"Nay, not only does it operate as a curb upon our too
active desires, but as a spur to excite the faculties, when
too feeble in their energy. If Benevolence be weak, Con-
scientiousness proclaims, in a voice of authority, that it is
our duty to relieve the miserable;—if Acquisitiveness be
too feeble to prompt to industry, this sentiment calls aloud
on us to labor, that we may do justice to those around us.
252 PHRENOLOGY.
From this regulating quality, Conscientiousness is an impor-
tant element in constituting a practical judgment and an
upright and consistent character.
" When this faculty is powerful, the individual is disposed
to regulate his conduct by the nicest sentiments of justice:
there is an earnestness, integrity, and directness in his man-
ner which inspire us with confidence, and give us convic-
tion of his integrity. Such an individual desires to act justly
from the love of justice, unbiassed by fear, interest, or any
sinister motive.
"The activity of this faculty takes a wider range than
respect merely to the legal rights and property of others.
It prompts those in whom it is strong, to do justice in judg-
ing of the conduct, the opinions, and the talents of others.
Such persons are scrupulous, and as ready to condemn
themselves as to find fault with others. When predominant,
it leads to punctuality in keeping appointments, because it
is injustice to sacrifice the time and convenience of others,
in causing them to wait till our selfishness finds it agreea-
ble to meet them. It prompts to ready payment of debts, as
a piece of justice to those to whom they are due. It will
not permit even a tax-collector to be sent away unsatisfied,
from any cause except inability to pay; because it is injus-
tice to him, as it is to the clerks, servants, and all others,
to require them to consume their time in unnecessary atten-
dance, for what is justly due and ought at once to be paid.
It leads also to great reserve in making promises, but to much
punctuality in performing them. It gives consistency to
the conduct, because, when every sentiment is regulated by
justice, the result is, that "daily beauty in the life" which
renders the individual in the highest degree useful and re-
spectable. It communicates a pleasing simplicity to the
manners, which command the esteem, and wins the affec-
tions, of all well constituted minds.
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 253
" This sentiment is essential to the formation of a truly-
philosophic mind, especially in moral investigations. It
produces the desire of discovering truth, the tact of recog-
nizing it when discovered, and that perfect reliance on its
invincible supremacy, which give at once dignity and peace
to the mind.
"Repentance, remorse, a sense of guilt, and demerit, are
consequences of this faculty, when the actions have been in
opposition to its dictates. It is a mistake, however, to sup-
pose, that great criminals are punished by the accusations of
conscience; for this organ is generally deficient in men who
have devoted their lives to crime, and, in consequence, they
are strangers to the sentiment of remorse."
Conscientiousness is greatly dependent upon the higher
organs of intellect. It is by means of reflection that we are
enabled to understand our relations to others, and Conscien-
tiousness is affected according to the view which the intellect
takes of a subject. If a person is so deficient in the intel-
lectual organs that he is incapable of understanding his duty,
Conscientiousness aione will not guide him right. It only
gives the disposition to do justice, and not the ability to
ascertain what constitutes it. It is only by means of the
intellect that we know any thing. After the intellect has
acquired a knowledge of all the facts in a case, which af-
fect the rights of God or man, Conscientiousness inspires
the mind with a desire to act according to justice, and
respect those rights. Sometimes we see persons who, like
Lord Bacon, know very well what is required of them, but
are little disposed to perform it: and again we see others,
who have a strong desire to do their duty, but are deplora-
bly ignorant of it, and " need that some one should teach"
them. When I visited the state prison at Auburn, N. Y.
in company with several of my class, I called their atten-
tion to the general deficiency of Conscientiousness among
22
254 PHRENOLOGY.
the convicts; it was in some instances so striking as to be
perceptible by all of us at the distance of several rods.
These unhappy men had been confined for violating the rights
of others, and it might well have been expected that they
would be deficient in Conscientiousness.
Conscientiousness is intimately related to Firmness. It
is highly important that those who are determined to pursue
a particular course, during a great length of time, which
greatly affects society, should pursue a correct course.
Conscientiousness is therefore superadded to Firmness to
modify its effects, just as Approbativeness is superadded to
Imperativeness: nothing will change the course of a stubborn
man so quick, if he has this organ large, as a conviction
that he is in the wrong; and on the other hand, nothing
gives so much activity to Firmness, as a consciousness that
our cause is just. Without Firmness, Conscientiousness is
in great danger of being overcome. The virtuous resolves
which Conscientiousness makes in the absence of tempta-
tion, need Firmness to carry them through under trying
circumstances. Neither Firmness nor Conscientiousness
can act effectually, unless they act together; and in the
brain their convolutions are apparently mere continuations
of each other.
It has frequently been urged as an objection to phrenology,
that if men commit crimes on account of a deficiency of
Conscientiousness, it is unjust to punish them; and there-
fore they should be set at liberty. But whatever may be
the cause that prompts men to violate the rights of others,
society is certainly justified in protecting itself from their
outrages, whether they are idiots, criminals, or insane: and
any criminal code that has for its object the safety of society
and the improvement of the offender, will be in accordance
with phrenological principles. I must confess, however,
that nothing can be found in phrenology to justify unne-
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 255
cessary punishment. The safety of society renders it neces-
sary that criminals should be deprived of the liberty which
they have abused, and so guarded that they can do no
more mischief to their fellow men; but any farther pro-
ceedings against them should be intended for their reforma-
tion and improvement. Society has no right to punish any
one for revenge, or merely for an example to others. 1 am
aware, that throughout the world the most severe inflictions
are excused on the ground that they frighten others; and
in some countries the most horrid cruelties are perpetrated,
under the sanction of this principle. But, in the name of
humanity, does not the history of man furnish already a
sufficient number of examples of the consequences of ini-
quity? Is it necessary to keep continually before the com-
munity the example of several thousand individuals in misery,
for the purpose of warning others? Does the history of
the past prove that severity is the best preventive of crime?
Has society any right to protect itself by such barbarous
and unmerciful means as those now in use, when milder
means may be made equally effective? I confidently be-
lieve, that when the sublime principles of phrenology are
universally understood, the present criminal laws and crimi-
nal discipline, will undergo an important change; and the
convict, instead of being treated like a beast of prey, will be
managed like a moral patient. Instead of being considered
a fit object for the exercise of unnecessaiy severity, he will
be pitied as the most unhappy of mankind, and a remedy
applied, adapted to the nature of the disease. While he
will be secured, and every means taken to prevent him from
repeating his crimes, every means will also be taken to
render his situation as happy as circumstances will permit;
and to restore him again to society, better qualified and dis-
posed to respect the rights of others. According to the
present system, all the state prison convicts are treated
256 PHRENOLOGY.
alike, whatever may have been their offences; no allowance
is made for the differences in their organization, education,
or degree of intellect. Whatever may be the moral disease
with which they are affected, the same remedy (severity
is applied indiscriminatelv to all: the consequence is. that
they leave the prison in as bad, and even a worse state of
mind than they entered: they are let loose again upon socie-
ty—again they commit crimes—and are again incarcerated,
and punished still more severely, with the same effect. In
this way both the great objects of criminal jurisprudence are
defeated: for neither is society protected, nor is the indi-
vidual in any way improved.
I c-
aDaMS.
Every one is aware that there is a great difference
among men in regard to the ability to resist temptation:
some, like Samuel Adams, and Washington, have so much
Firmness and Conscientiousness as to be able to resist with
SUBMISS1VENESS. 257
ease, and to treat with contempt, all inducements to swerve
from the path of duty: while others, like Lord Bacon, Bene-
dict Arnold, and Americus Vespucius, although possessing
superior talents, fall easy victims to temptation. The por-
trait of Americus shows him to have been deficient in both
Firmness and Conscientiousness; which accounts for the
deception by which he succeeded in giving his name to the
New World. Adams, on the other hand, was proof against
the most tempting offers of the British crown; and, after lis-
tening to the threats and promises which the messenger was
authorized to make, " assuming a determined manner, he
replied: ' 1 trust I have long since made my peace with the
King of kings; and no personal consideration shall induce me
to abandon the righteous cause of my country. Tell Gover-
nor Gage, it is the advice of Samuel Adams to him, no lon-
ger to insult the feelings of an exasperated people.'
"
The great respect which beavers manifest for each
other's rights, and the fact that they never pilfer from one
another, cannot easily be accounted for, without supposing
that they have some Conscientiousness.
CONFORMING GROUP.
9th. submissiveness, or reverence.
You shall be as a father to my youth;
My voice shall sound as you do prompt mine ear,
And I will stoop and humble my intents
To your well practis'd, wise directions. Shakespeare.
This is the propensity to submit to the authority of those
who are acknowledged to be superior; and was evidently
22*
258 PHRENOLOGY.
designed to produce obedience to government. When first
discovered by Dr. Gall, it was denominated theosophy, or
the disposition to worship God; because he found it large in
extraordinary catholic devotees, and, in others who were
remarkably religious. Dr. Spurzheim, finding it large
on many who made no pretensions to religion, but who were
yet much disposed to reverence the great, changed the name
to that of Reverence. Spurzheim says, " though devout
persons have elevated heads, yet not every one who pos-
sesses the cerebral part in question is devout and religious.
In all the busts and portraits of Voltaire, it is represented as
much developed, and certainly he was not religious. I have
also found the organ very considerable in an individual who
assured me that he did not believe in the existence of God.
Man, in my opinion, arrived at the belief in a Supreme
Being, by means of his reflective faculties; since that is an
effect without a cause. Gall first observed this organ in
individuals in the act of adoring God, and saints in the
exercise of devotion. My observations induce me to con-
sider its special faculty as the sentiment of reverence in
general, without determining the object to be reverenced, or
the manner of reverence. By its agency man adores God.
venerates saints, and respects persons and things." Mr.
George Combe, although he named it the organ of Vene-
ration, does not essentially differ from the views of Dr.
Spurzheim.
I consider it the propensity to submit; and veneration,
reverence, and respect, sue feelings which are produced by
Submissiveness: whereas worship, condescension, obedience
and submission, are the actions which follow those feelings.
In children, the parent is the proper object to excite this
propensity; next the schoolmaster; and then the magistrate,
the governor, the president, or the king demand obedience
to their authority; and if they are endowed with wisdom,
SUB MISSIVE NESS. 259
and power, and integrity, they will so affect this propensity,
in all well constituted minds, as to produce the feeling of
respect, reverence, veneration, modified by circumstances
and by combination with other powers. Superiority of any-
kind, but particularly in government, is calculated to call
it into action; this being the case, as soon as an individual
believes in the existence of a God, of infinite attributes, this
propensity will naturally be excited towards him: but it is
plain, that a man will not be disposed to submit to a power,
the very existence of which he denies. This explains the
various observations which have been made by Gall and
Spurzheim in regard to the connection between religion and
this organ. A man who has large Conscientiousness and
Submissiveness, will submit with great pleasure whenever
he believes it to be his duty to do so; but he will readily
rebel against a false religion or an unjust government, and
endeavor to establish one in its place, which is congenial to
all his feelings. If Submissiveness is small and Con-
scientiousness and Cautiousness very large, he then may
submit, but he will not do so with pleasure—it will be with
him a mere form, which, as soon as possible, will be dispen-
sed with—he cannot be a devotee. He may act according to
the law, because he deems it just; but he will feel little reve-
rence for the law-giver: he will obey commands, because
he approves them, and not because they emanate from one
whom he reveres. In religion, morals, and government, he
will insist upon the essentials, the spirit, the meaning of
the rules, but will be indifferent with regard to the mere
ceremonies and forms. It may at first seem contradictory,
that man should possess one propensity to command, and
another to obey; and it has been objected, that when both
are large they will counteract each other; but let us appeal
to facts: we see the same individual commanding his subor-
dinates and inferiors with great dignity and propriety, and
260 PHRENOLOGY.
maintaining his authority with firmness and decision; and
yet when he comes into the presence of his superiors, his
deportment is in the highest degree respectful; he obeys
their just commands with alacrity and pleasure; and thus
affords an example for the imitation of those below him. It
is a common proverb, that those who would command,
should first learn to obey.
During minority, every one is obliged to obey those who
are more advanced and experienced; and this is not only
necessary for the good order of society, but also for the
education of the individual. If we examine the heads of
those children that are disrespectful, rebellious, impudent,
and ungovernable, we shall find that this organ is small, and
the Governing Group, particularly Imperativeness and Firm-
ness, large. At Auburn prison, I saw a parricide who was
convicted of an attempt to murder his mother, because she
would not obey him; and I found the Establishing and Con-
forming Groups very small, and the Governing, except Con-
scientiousness, very large : below is an engraving of his head.
AMERICUS VESPCCICS.
SUB MI S S I V ENE S S. 261
Let this head be contrasted with the head of Americus
of Sir Walter Scott—or of the good natured school-
master, W H , who was repeatedly turned out of
doors by his pupils; and although a man of learning and
talents, and a good teacher, he was almost totally incapable
of governing his school, except by kindness.
This organ is much larger on women than men, and ena-
bles them to submit to government with a much better grace
than men. It also accounts for their greater disposition to
attend to the worship of God, and conform to the requisi-
tions of the church. It explains also, why a woman can
seldom love a man whom she does not respect; she takes
great pleasure in looking up to her husband as her superior
in power; and in feeling conscious of her dependence upon
him for protection, support and influence.
One great cause of the contentment with which the south-
ern slaves submit to their servile condition, is to be found in
the fact that they have the organ of Submissiveness larger and
Firmness smaller than any other race. They have always
been slaves. From time immemorial, under all circumstan-
ces, the Negro has been a 'servant of servants.' The Indian,
on the other hand, has always been free and independent.
Neither the force nor the fraud of the whites has ever sub-
jugated him. I have never heard of an instance in which
an Indian has submitted to slavery. The southern Indians
have frequently had possession of a large number of Negro
slaves, but who ever heard of an Indian being a slave to a
Negro? This does not, however, justify slavery; but, on
the contrary, it only shows that it is taking advantage of
one of the most amiable traits in the human character. I
find this organ much smaller in the people of the western
than the eastern part of this country, and in Americans
generally than in Europeans.
There is a very great difference among animals in regard
262 PHRENOLOGY.
to this propensity; the clog, although one of the most intel-
ligent and courageous of animals, is remarkably submissive;
and in this respect it diners very much from the fox; though
in many other particulars he resembles that animal. All
those animals which are most easily subjected to the will of
man, such as horses and oxen, will be found to have this
organ large; and in those that are altogether untameable,
as the hyena, and wolf, both Submissiveness and Kindness
will be found small.
I have adopted a name for this propensity to agree with
my ideas of the distinction between propensities, feelings,
and actions. Submissiveness is a propensity;—reverence,
veneration, respect and humility are feelings—obedience
and submission, are actions.
10th. kindness, or benevolence.
"As you would that others should do unto you, do ye even so
to them."
This is the propensity to gratify the feelings of others:
to compare their feelings with our own, and to act by them,
as in like circumstances we should wish them to act by us.
For instance, a person with large Alimentiveness and small
Acquisitiveness, knows from experience, that the feeling
of hunger is distressing; and when he sees any one suf-
fering for want of food, if he has Kindness large, will has-
ten to relieve him: but if he sees one who has lost his pro-
perty, he does not pity him so much, because he has him-
self never experienced the powerful longings of Acquisi-
tiveness. A person without Parentiveness and Adhesiveness
KINDNESS. 263
cannot understand the feelings of a bereaved parent, or
friend; and therefore, however large his organ of Kindness
may be, he cannot pity him. One who has a predominant
Approbativcness, knows by experience the mortification
which arises from being slandered, or lightly spoken of,
and if he also has a large organ of Kindness, he will be
very careful not to say any thing to mortify the Approba-
tiveness of others. The same principle will apply to any
other propensities when combined with Kindness. It has
grown into a proverb that
'* A fellow feeling makes us wondrous kind."
Before we can understand the feelings of others we must
experience similar ones ourselves; and then if we have this
organ, we shall be able sincerely to " rejoice with those
that do rejoice and weep with those that weep.'7
The design of this propensity is to prevent the unneces-
sary injury of the feelings of others, to relieve their suffer-
ings, and augment their happiness as much as possible,
consistently with justice to self. It is not limited in its ope-
rations to any particular class of fellow beings; but its
language is
11
Come, send abroad a love for all that live."
If Alimentiveness and Destructiveness desire to kill an
animal for food, Kindness insists upon its being done in such
a manner as to give the least possible pain. If the Gover-
ning Group produces a determination to punish rebellion,
and enforce obedience, Kindness desires to have it done in
the mildest manner; and if it is larger than Imperativeness
and Firmness, the individual can with great difficulty exer-
cise the necessary severity, to produce the obedience of
stubborn and vicious characters. Kindness disposes its pos-
sessor to conform to the wishes of others, instead of oppo-
sing them; and to let them have their way rather than to
264 PHRENOLOGY.
hurt their feelings. It is admitted by all phrenologians,
that this organ is possessed by the lower animals. Mr.
George Combe remarks:
" When it is largely developed, they are mild and docile;
whereas, when it is deficient, they are vicious, ill-natured,
and intractable. Dr. Gall gives some interesting illustra-
tions of this fact. The head of the tiger, says he, is more
flat at this part than that of the lion; and the heads of the
hyena and wolf are more depressed than that of the dog.
The organ is greatly depressed immediately above the level
of the eyes in the baboon; while, on the contrary, it is ele-
vated in the ourang-outang; and the dispositions of all these
animals are in accordance with their developements. In the
horse, the organ is placed in the middle of the forehead, a
little above the eyes. When this region is hollow and nar-
row, a horse is invariably vicious, and disposed to bite and
to kick. In mild and good natured horses, on the contrary,
this part stands as far out as the eyes, or even farther.
The driver of a Cabriolet of Neuilly, says Dr. Gall, bought,
at a low price, a horse which nobody could use on account
of its extreme bad temper; but it was an excellent runner.
In the first week it bit off two of the driver's fingers, and
one of his ears. He attempted to correct it by redoubled
blows, but these rendered it only more vicious. He then
resolved to try the effect of gentle treatment, and this suc-
ceeded to a certain degree. The organ in question was
very small in this animal; and the same conformation will
be found in all horses which require to be muzzled, to pre-
vent them from biting. On one occasion, a gentleman in
the country mentioned at his dinner table that he had two
horses, one extremely mild, and the other very vicious, in
temper. They were brought out into the stable-yard, and
by examining their heads, according to Dr. Gall's directions,
I pointed out each, without having previously seen them.
KINDNESS. 265
The difference was so great, that several persons who were
present recognized it, the moment they were toid where to
look for it. I have seen this experiment repeated with in-
variable success/*'
Kindness is related to the intellect, and particularly to
Comparison. The very definition of this propensity, im-
plies that the individual compares the different conditions
and feelings of his fellow beings with each other and with
his own: this is necessary in order to direct his kindness
discreetly. Some are indiscriminate in their charities; they
give their assistance to any who importune them, and make
no distinction between the really needy, and the impostor.
There are others again, who so economize their goodness,
as to make it produce the greatest possible amount of hap-
piness. Kindness was not designed to make the individual
sacrifice his own happiness for the good of others, but was
intended to be gratified in harmony with his other powers.
It is a superadded organ, given to modify the other propen-
sities, and not to counteract them. No man with a well
constituted mind, will starve himself to feed others; or per-
mit his family to suffer, in consequence of his generosity to
strangers; but he will do all in his power to gratify others,
consistently with his duty to himself and friends. I have
seen several instances of individuals who were deficient in
the Establishing Socials, and had a very large developement
of Kindness, and small Acquisitiveness and Destructiveness.
They gave away every thing, and kept themselves continu-
ally poor, and their family in want: they manifested just
as much kindness to strangers, as to their best friends.
Every orphan in their neighborhood, was as much befriend-
ed by them as their own children. I know a lady of this
character, who gives to the poor, or sends to the heathen,
every cent that her husband allows her to control. Almost
every day she goes away from home, and superintends the
23
266 PHRENOLOGY.
affairs of benevolent institutions; and is incessantly occu-
pied in enterprizes for the benefit of others; while she neg-
lects her own domestic duties, and even her health. There
are some weak, but good-natured individuals, who render
themselves really troublesome, by their well meant endea-
vors to be serviceable. Such persons, especially when Im-
perativeness is very small, and Approbativeness and Hope-
fulness very large, are commonly termed busy-bodies. A
little flattery induces them to make themselves extremely
officious in the service of any one who is disposed to
make tools of them—this is the general character of the
Negroes. Kindness, like every other propensity, may be
so manifested as to defeat the end for which it was designed,
and make its possessor appear ridiculous.
Sometimes there is an apparent contradiction exhibited by
persons in whom Kindness is large, combined with large
Acquisitiveness; they will not give away property, but they
will give their personal services, attend the sick, show kind-
ness in their manners, words, &c. A similar inconsistency
appears in those who have Kindness with the Governing
Group large; they will be kind to those who obey them, and
conform to their notions; but they will be tyrannical, op-
pressive, and intolerant, to those who treat their authority
with contempt; or who are apposed to their views of poli-
tics, religion, or morality. Again, we may see a person
with large Destructiveness and Kindness, and small Acqui-
sitiveness; he will be profuse with his property, and there-
fore take great credit to himself for his benevolence; but
perhaps he will at the same time commit deeds of wanton
cruelty. All these facts are explained on the principle,
that the larger organs predominate over the smaller.
I prefer the name of Kindness for this propensity to that ;
of Benevolence, which Dr. Gall gave it. Benevolence signi-
fies good actions; it is Kindness modified by justice. The
KINDNESS. 267
propensity under consideration, prompts to many actions
which do not deserve the name of benevolence. Gall and
Spurzheim proved that it is manifested by the lower ani-
mals; now, it is undoubtedly improper to speak of a benevo-
lent animal, but we can say a kind animal with strict truth
and evident propriety.
Sir Walter Scott had the greatest developement of the
Conforming organs, of any individual whose bust I have
ever seen; and any one has only to read his biography by
Lockhart, to be satisfied that his whole life was a continual
manifestation of them.
268 PHRENOLOGY.
11th. IMITATIVENESS.
A prinee's acts command the people's imitation,
Let but Augustus drink, and drunk's the Polish nation.
Frederick the Great.
This is the propensity to copy the actions of superiors
to follow the example of those whom we reverence—to adopt
the manners and peculiarities of those with whom we asso-
ciate. It is very active during the early years of life, be-
fore children are capable of judging of the propriety or im-
propriety of their acts. It enables them to avail themselves
of nearly all the practical advantages of their parent's expe-
rience. A thousand little necessary arts, the nature of
which it would be impossible for them to understand, are
practiced instinctively under the influence of Imitativeness.
The organs of both Playfulness and Imitativeness are much
larger in children than adults, and they are both of very
great importance in education. Man is termed by Aristotle
the imitative animal. Darwin remarks, that "not only do
the greatest part of mankind learn all the common arts of life
by Imitation, but brute animals seem capable of acquiring
knowledge with greater facility by imitating each other,
than by any method by which man can teach them." "This
propensity to imitate, not only appears in the actions of
children, but in all the customs and fashions of the world.
Many thousands tread in the beaten paths of others, for one
who traverses regions of his own discovery."
Dr. Gall first discovered this organ in those who mani-
fested a talent for mimicking, and he therefore named it the
organ of Mimickry. Spurzheim and Combe considered it
IMITATIVENESS. 269
the propensity of imitation in general. I agree with those
eminent phrenologians so far as they have gone, but I do
not think that they have given sufficient importance to this
propensity; nor taken into account the designs of the Crea-
tor in bestowing it. They have hitherto only spoken of it
as it is exhibited by mimicks, actors, artists and dramatists;
but these are its extraordinary manifestations, when pecu-
liarly combined with other powers. I consider Imitative-
ness a social propensity, designed to enable mankind to
conform to the manners and habits of each other. It par-
tially supplies the power of reason before reason is ripe,
by enabling the young, the ignorant, and the inferior, to
imitate the actions of their parents, masters, and other
superiors.
Imitativeness is a conforming social propensity; and na-
turally acts in combination with Submissiveness. Although
we may imitate those whom we do not respect, this is not the
proper mode, but may be considered rather as an abuse,
and a deviation from its original intention. We always
direct the imitation of the young to the great and good, to
those whom most we respect, and whose example we con-
sider most worthy of imitation. In accordance with this
fact is the anatomical arrangement of the convolution of
this organ: it originates at Submissiveness, and runs for-
ward parallel with Kindness, until it reaches the Reffectives.
(See the bust.) Imitativeness should always be explained
in connection with Submissiveness; it is a mere superaddi-
tion to it, to carry out the plan of conformity. There is
also an intimate relation between Kindness and this pro-
pensity. Imitativeness disposes us to conceive the feelings
of others, and Kindness is a propensity to gratify those feel-
ings. The feeling of sympathy, in my opinion, depends
principally upon Imitativeness. When explaining Kind-
ness, I stated that in order to pity others, we must first ex-
23*
270 PHRENOLOGY.
perience similar feelings to theirs; and in order to expe-
rience similar feelings, we must possess similar organs.
Kindness is superadded to the other propensities, to dispose
us to gratify the feelings which those propensities produce;
and Imitativeness is superadded, to dispose us to understand
those feelings that we may be the better enabled to gratify
them. Darwin says " imitation is repetition, which is the
easiest kind of animal action.
77
If this definition is correct,
then this is a propensity to repeat the actions of others;
and not their actions only, but their dress, and language,
and mechanical performances. Now if my views are cor-
rect, sympathy is a repetition in our own minds, of the feel-
ings of others, and depends upon this propensity. " Many
young men, 7
'
says Darwin, "fall sick on seeing surgical
operations performed, and even feel pain in the same part
of their own bodies; that is, they in some measure imitate
in their own fibres, the violent actions which they witness in
those of others.
77
" The effect of this powerful agent, imita-
tion, in the moral world, is the foundation of all our mental
sympathies with the pains and pleasures of others; and is
in consequence, the source of all our virtues. For in what
consists our sympathies with the miseries, or with the joys
of our fellow creatures, but in an involuntary excitation of
ideas in some measure similar, or imitative of those which
we believe to exist in the minds of the persons whom we
commisserate, or congratulate
1
?
77
Sympathy, is a term which is frequently used as if it
was synonymous with pity; but pity is a feeling produced
by Kindness, and sympathy is a feeling produced princi-
pally by Imitativeness. As Imitativeness and Kindness
naturally act together, and are generally combined with
other propensities, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish
which has the greatest share in producing the mingled emo-
tions. In some late examinations which I have made of
J MIT ATI VENES S. 271
the human brain, I found that the furrow which separates
Kindness from Imitativeness, is very shallow, being not
more than half an inch deep; whereas the furrow between
Credenciveness and Imitativeness is more than an inch and
a half. This anatomical fact coincides with these views,
and explains why the two organs are so apt to act in com-
bination, and mutually to excite each other. When explain-
ing Kindness, I showed that it always acts in combination
with one or more of the lower propensities; I now add, that
it also acts, in every well balanced mind, in combination
with Imitativeness; and what is commonly understood by
the term svmpathy, when applied to the joys and sorrows
of others, is a compound feeling, produced by the united
action of those two propensities. For instance, if one of
our neighbors has lost his child, our Parentiveness, Kind-
ness and Imitativeness combine to produce towards him the
feeling of sympathy. If our Parentiveness is large, judg-
ing by our own experience, we conclude that he must be
deeply afflicted; but this is not sympathy. If our Kindness
is large, we pity him, and are anxious to do all in our
power to console him; but neither is this sympathy. Now
if our Imitativeness is large, we not only pity him, but we
join with him in lamenting the loss of the child—we feel as
he feels, but not so intensely. This is sympathy: pity
is directed towards him, but sympathy is a feeling that min-
gles with his, and flows on in the same course: the only
difference is, that his is the main current that draws the
others for a time in the same direction.
A person having Imitativeness very large, with Kindness
small, will be able to conceive how another feels—will, as it
were, imitate or repeat imperfectly in his own mind, the
feelings of others; but will have no very strong desire to
gratify, or relieve them: yet this is one kind of sympathy;
though not such as proceeds from a well balanced mind.
272 PHRENOLOGY.
Lavater remarks, in substance, that by imitating the expres-
sion of another, we may partially experience his feelings;
and I doubt not that this is true especially of those who
have Imitativeness very large.
Mr. George Combe, in his System of Phrenology, page
512, adopts the ideas of Dr. A. Combe, on sympathy. Af-
ter reading his essay carefully, I cannot help concluding,
that this excellent author, had the thought been suggested
to him, would have agreed with me in referring much of
what has been called sympathy to the organ under consi-
deration. Probably the idea did not occur to him, but it will
be perceived on reading his remarks, that what he describes
as being the effect of sympathy, is easily referable to Imita-
tiveness, combined with other propensities; and not to any
unknown "law of our constitution;" he says:
"By a law of our constitution, the natural language* of
any active faculty invariably excites the same faculty to
activity, and, consequently, gives rise to the same emotions,
in the minds of those who witness it. The forbidding
strut of great Self-Esteem, for instance, in a person whom
we never saw before, addresses itself directly to our Self-
Esteem; we instinctively draw up,f and feel moved to sup-
port our own consequence by a coldness proportioned to
his. In like manner, when we meet for the first time with
a person whose countenance and gestures express kindness,
candor, and open-hearted friendship, which are the natural
language of active Benevolence, Conscientiousness, and
Adhesiveness, the same emotions are excited in ourselves,
and we instinctively return his advances with a kindness
corresponding to his own. Or, let us imagine that we hurry
to meet a friend, whom we expect to find all happiness and
gaiety, that instead of this, seriousness, anxiety, and grief,
*See remarks on Natural Language.
tls not this obviously a combination of 5th and 11th?
IMITATIVENESS. 273
are depicted on his countenance, and indicated by his ges-
tures, these being the natural language of Cautiousness and
other faculties painfully affected, will call up a correspond-
ing affection of the same faculties in our minds, and, with-
out knowing what has distressed him, our features and atti-
tudes will instantly assume an expression consonant with
his own. It is to this involuntary and almost unconscious
communication of feelings and emotions from the mind of
one individual to that of another, through the medium of
natural language, that the term Sympathy is most properly
applied.
" True sympathy, then, arises from the natural language
of any active feeling in one individual exciting the same
feeling in another, " antecedent to any knowledge of what
excited it in the person 'principally concerned;
77
and there-
fore, as the stimulus of natural language is secondary or
inferior in power to that derived from the direct present-
ment of the objects of any faculty, it is easy to explain why
the person who feels sympathetically, feels less deeply than
the person with whom he sympathizes. The same principle
explains, also, why all men do not sympathize in the same
degree, and why, in some cases, the spectator does not sym-
pathize at all."
"Much of the effect of example upon future character,
has been ascribed to Imitation;* but although this has an
influence, I am persuaded that it is small compared with
that of Sympathy as now unfolded.
"There is a state of mind which has been confounded
with Sympathy, but which arises from the direct excite-
ment of the faculties, by their own objects. When we see
a stroke aimed and ready to fall upon the leg or arm of ano-
ther, we naturally shrink and draw back our own leg or
*This remark shows that he found it difficult to draw a line of
distinction between imitation and sympathy.
274 PHRENOLOGY.
arm, and when it does fall, we in some measure feel it, and
are hurt by it as well as the sufferer. Dr. Adam Smith
proceeds to explain this by saying, that our fellow feeling
here arises from our changing places in fancy with the
sufferer. Thus, if our brother is upon the rack, says he,
" By the imagination we place ourselves in his situation,
we conceive ourselves enduring all the same torments; we
enter as it were into his body, and become in some measure
the same person with him, and thence form some idea of
his sensations, and even feel something, which, though
weaker in degree is not altogether unlike them. His agonies
thus brought home to ourselves, when wT
e have thus adopted,
and made them our own, begin at last to affect us, and we
then tremble and shudder at the thought of what he feels."
This theory, however, appears to be incorrect, for we often
feel intensely for another's misery, without, even in idea,
changing places with him. In beholding suffering, we feel
deep commisseration with its object, simply because the
faculty of Benevolence, the function of which is to mani-
fest this emotion, is a primitive mental power, having the
same relation to external misery or pain, as light has to the
eye: and as such it is as instantly and irresistibly roused by
presentment of a suffering object, as the eye is by the ad-
mission of light, or the ear by the percussion of sounds. In
witnessing another's misery, we, in virtue of this constitu-
tion of mind, first feel the emotion of pity, and in propor-
tion to its strength, fancy to ourselves the pain which he
endures: But the pity always precedes, and the effort to
conceive the pain is the effect, and not the cause of the
pity. Hence those who are remarkable for a moderate
endowment of Benevolence, although possessing superior
intellectual or conceiving powers, never even try to fancy
themselves placed in the situation of the sufferer, because
they feel no motive impelling them to the attempt. The be-
IMITATIVENESS. 275
nevolent idiot, on the other hand, with scarcely any power
of conception, feels the most poignant distress.
" The same principle explains our shrinking from a blow
impending over another. The feeling then experienced is
a compound of Fear and Pity, Cautiousness and Benevo-
lence. Fear sees the danger, and Pit}' looks to the conse-
quent pain. Danger is the direct stimulant of Cautiousness,
and suffering that of Benevolence; and, therefore, when
those objects are presented to the mind, we can no more
help feeling the corresponding emotions, than we can help
seeing and hearing. The direct end or function of Cau-
tiousness is the care and preservation of self; therefore,
when it is excited by the aspect of danger, we look exclu-
sively to self, and necessarily draw in our own leg or arm
as parts of ourselves; but this results directly from the con-
stitution of the faculty, and not from putting ourselves in the
place of another. The direct end or function of Benevo-
lence, again, is the good and happiness of others, and there-
fore, when it is excited by the misery of another, it neces-
sarily, from its very constitution, feels for them, and not
for us.
" An active temperament greatly conduces to sympathy
producing vivacity in all the cerebral functions, but this does
not supersede the laws of sympathy before explained."
Th^ importance of making a distinction between propensi-
ties, feelings, and actions, upon which I have so much
insisted in this work, must now be obvious. Spurzheim,
Combe, and all other phrenologians, agree in denominating
this propensity a feeling of Imitation; but imitation is an
action produced by the 'propensity of Imitativeness. It
would be absurd to say 'Ifeel imitation;' but it is perfectly
proper to say ' I act in imitation;' and it is also proper to
say '
I feel sympathy.' I therefore name this the propen-
sity of Imitativeness, —the feeling which it produces I call
276 PHRENOLOGY.
sympathy, —and the actions which it produces I denomi-
nate imitations. If the term sympathy does not convey the
precise idea of the feeling produced by Imitativeness, then
I know of none in our language that does. 1 have, in wri-
ting this work, often felt a necessity for new terms, to ex-
press more precisely the different feelings; and I doubt not
that as the science continues to progress, improvements
will be introduced in this important part of the nomencla-
ture of mental philosophy.
Those who have this organ large, are capable of con-
forming to the manners and habits of those with whom they
associate, much more readily than those who have it mode-
rately developed: they seem to have the power of approach-
ing in a proper and successful manner, those who occupy
eminent stations. They are more easy and graceful in their
manners, and can readily adapt themselves to the feelings,
actions, and situations of others. It is large in those who
are capable of representing the feelings and actions of oth-
ers, in writing, or speech; and no man can easily excel as
an actor, orator, artist, dramatic author, ventriloquist, dan-
cer, or musician, unless this is fairly developed. In proof
of this, we find it large in the portraits, or heads, of all who
are eminent in either of these professions. It gives the dra-
matic author the power of calling up in his own mind the
same train of ideas and feeling, that he supposes the charac-
ter to possess whom he describes; and having thus, as it
were, imbued himself with their spirit, and made their case
his own, he proceeds to pour out their feelings in lan-
guage such as that of Shakespeare, Voltaire, Walter Scott,
N. P. Willis, Epes Sargeant. If they are public speakers,
their elocution will be graceful and appropriate; such as
that of Henry Clay. If they are actors, their personations
will be striking representatives of real life. If they are ar-
tists, they will copy the works of others, or nature, in such
I M I T A T 1 V E N E S S. 277
a manlier as very much to resemble the original. Imita-
tiveness is intimately related to the intellect. The organ
runs forward from Submissiveness, until it terminates in
the Reflective Faculties; accordingly, we find that its ope-
ration is very much modified by the degree and manner in
which the intellect is developed. If the Reflectives are large
they give originality to the thoughts, they check the impro-
per activity of Imitativeness, and give a disposition to imi-
tate or adopt principles, instead of actions. If the Reflec-
tives are not large, and the perceptives are much developed,
then there will be a manifestation of practical, or mechani-
cal imitation; such as is manifested by mimicks, and super-
ficial geniuses, who can quickly learn to perform operations,
the nature of which they are incapable of understanding.
Those authors who are incapable of reasoning profoundly,
but who can write racily and pictorially, and readily adapt
their st}r
le to the subject, will invariably be found to have
moderate reflectives, and large perceptives and Imitative-
ness. They
" Catch the manners living as they rise."
They describe things as they see and feel and hear them,
but do not attempt to account for them. Most of the wri-
tings of novelists are of this character.
I have never seen a good actor, however large his Imita-
tiveness might be, who had not large perceptives.
This propensity sometimes combines with the other high
propensities and the reflectives, and manifests itself only
in a moral way, by conforming to the precepts and follow-
ing the moral and religious examples of others. Such per-
sons are apt to suppose that they should have the organ
small, because they have never manifested it in a mimicking,
or a mechanical way; but this common error is owing to
the manner in which the propensity has been explained.
Phrenologians have hitherto treated it as a peculiarity of ar-
24
278 PHRENOLOGY.
fists, and dramatists, and have almost entirely overlooked
its higher and nobler purposes, as a conforming social pro-
pensity, superadded to Submissiveness and Kindness: the
fact is, the manner in which it is manifested, depends much
upon the organs with which it is combined*
There are some species of animals that manifest Imita-
tiveness very distinctly, particularly the monkey tribes;
and I have found the organ plainly developed in the brains
of animals, as the swine, cat, dog, horse, &c, some of
which manifest it in so low a degree that we should not
have suspected them of possessing it; but it is probably use-
ful to them as a social propensity.
12TH. CREDENCIVENESS, OR MARVELLOUSNESS.
Lord 1 believe; help thou mine unbelief. Mark.
This is the propensity to act upon the testimony of oth-
ers—to give credence to the assertions, and conform to the
opinions of those with whom we associate, and whom we
reverence. It is intimately related to Submissiveness; and
usually acts in combination with it. The convolution of
the brain which constitutes this organ, originates at Submis-
siveness, forms a kind of elbow against Hopefulness, and
runs forward to Causality. This arrangement is not with-
out an important and obvious purpose. Although it is true
that every organ in the brain is in some degree related to
every other organ, yet there is a more intimate relation
between some than others; and those which associate most
in action will be found to be associated and arranged to-
CREDENCIVENESS. 279
gclher in the brain. These remarks apply with peculiar
force to Submissiveness, Credenciveness, and Hopefulness.
We give most credence to those whom most we reverence,
and our hopes are greatly modified by our belief, while both
hope and faith are very dependent upon Causality.
When this organ was first discovered by Dr. Gall, it was
denominated the organ of Supernaturahty, because it was
found large on those who manifested a proneness to believe
in miraculous events. It seems to me that the true func-
tion of this propensity has not been properly explained; but
I will proceed to give the views of Gall, Spurzheim, and
Combe, and then add my own.
" Dr. Gall observed that some individuals imagine them-
selves to be visited by apparitions of persons dead or absent;
and he asks, How does it happen, that men of considerable
intellect often believe in the reality of ghosts and visions?
or, Is there a particular organization, which imposes, in
this form, on the human understanding? and, How are such
illusions to be explained? He then enters into a histori-
cal sketch of the most remarkable instances of vision.
77
"Dr. Gall remarked, in the first fanatic who fell under his
observation, a large development of the part of the brain
lying between the organs of Ideality and Imitation, and
subsequently met with many similar instances. Dr. Jung
Stilling, says he, whom he often saw with the late Grand
Duke of Baden, was a tailor in his youth, then a tutor,
afterwards doctor in medicine, moralist, divine, journalist,
illuminatus, and visionary; and in him this part of the brain
was largely developed. He believed firmly in apparitions,
and wrote a book in exposition of this doctrine. In the
Maison de Detention at Berne, Dr. Gall saw a fanatic, who
believed that Jesus Christ, surrounded by a brilliant light,
as if a million of suns had combined their splendors, had
appeared to him to reveal the true religion. A gentleman,
280 PHRENOLOGY.
who moves in the best society in Paris, asked Dr. Gall to
examine his head. The Doctor's first remark was, " You
sometimes see visions, and believe in apparitions. 77
The
gentleman started from his chair in astonishment, and said,
that he had frequent visions; but never, up to this moment,
had he spoken on the subject to any human being, through
fear of being set down for being absurdly credulous. On
another occasion, Dr. Gall, when he observed the developc-
ment of the head of Dr. W., said, that he ought to have a
strong liking for the marvellous and supernatural. " For
once, 7
'
replied he, " you are completely mistaken, for I
have laid down the rule to believe in nothing which cannot
be mathematically demonstrated. 77
After talking with him
on various scientific subjects, Dr. Gall turned the conversa-
tion towards animal magnetism, which appeared a fit topic
to put the mathematical rigor of his proofs to the test. He
instantly became greatly animated, assured Dr. Gall again
very solemnly, that he admitted nothing as true that was
not mathematically demonstrated; but added, he was con-
vinced that a spiritual being acted in magnetism; that it
operated at great distances; that no distance indeed present-
ed an obstacle to its action, and that, on this account, it
could sympathize with persons in any part of the world.
" It is the same cause,
77
continued he, which produces appa-
ritions. Apparitions and visions are rare, no doubt, but
they undoubtedly exist, and I am acquainted with the laws
which regulate their production.
77
*' On this occasion,
7
*
says Dr. Gall, " I thought within myself, that my inference
from his developement was not so very erroneous as the
worthy Doctor wished me to believe.
77
" A man named Halleran, of Vienna, imagined himself
continually accompanied by a familiar spirit; he saw the
spirit, and conversed with it. When he reached his six-
tieth year, his genius appeared as if it wished to leave him,
C R E D E X C I V E X E S S. 281
and only on certain days of the month was he favored with
his presence. At Gersbach, near Durlach, in the Grand
Duchy of Baden, Dr. Gall knew a curate who was confined
because he conceived himself to have a familiar spirit. At
Manheim there was a man who saw himself continually
attended by several spirits: Sometimes they marched at his
side in visible forms; at other times they attended him un-
derground. In these persons Dr. Gall found the part of
the brain in question largely developed. He states as ques-
tions for consideration, ' Does this convolution form part
of the organ of Imitation? and, Does its extreme develope-
ment exalt the talent for mimickry, to such a degree as to
personify simple ideas, and to give them, thus metamor-
phosed, a locality, out of the individual? or, Does it consti-
tute parts both of Ideality and Imitation? or, finally, Does
it constitute a separate organ? These points can be deter-
mined only by farther researches.' "
Dr. Spurzheim observes, "There is still a sentiment
which exerts a very great influence over religious concep-
tions, and which, in my opinion, contributes more than
Veneration to religious faith. Some find all things natural,
and regulated by the laws of creation; many others are
amused with fictions, tales of wonder, and miraculous oc-
currences. They find in every passing event extraordinary
and wonderful circumstances, and are constantly searching
after whatever can excite admiration and astonishment.
This sentiment is to be observed among mankind at large,
both among savages and civilized nations. In every age,
and under every sky, man has been guided and led by his
credulity and superstition. The founders of all nations
have had a fabulous origin ascribed to them, and in all coun-
tries miraculous traditions and marvellous stories occur in
ample abundance. There are many disposed to believe in
dreams, sorcery, magic, astrology, in the mystic influence
24*
282 PHRENOLOGY.
of spirits and angels, in the power of the devil, in second
sight, and in miracles and incomprehensible representations
of all sorts. Some, also, are disposed to have visions, and
to see ghosts, demons, and phantoms. This sentiment gains
credence to the true and also to the false prophet, aids su-
perstition, but it is also essential to faith and refined religion.
It is more or less active, not only in different individuals,
but also in whole nations. Its functions are often disor-
dered, constituting one species of insanity.
'* The legislators of antiquity, aware of the great influ-
ence of this faculty, made frequent use of it to enforce and
confirm their laws. They spoke in the name of God, of
angels, or of supernatural powers. In our own days, the
religious sects of Swedenborgians, Methodists, Quakers, and
many others, particularly demonstrate its influence and
presence. In dramatic representations, the introduction of
ghosts, angels, transformations, and supernatural events,
proclaims its activity both in the author, and in the public,
by whom such exhibitions are relished and sought after.
"The existence of this feeling is certain. Its organ is
situated anterior to Hope, and a great developement of the
convolutions on which it depends, enlarges, and elevates the
superior and lateral parts of the frontal bone. It is remar-
kably prominent in the heads of Socrates, of Torquato Tas-
so, Dr. Price, Young, Stilling, Wesley, &c. My observa-
tions on it are extremely numerous, and I consider it as
established."
Mr. Combe names it the organ of Wonder, and says,
" My own observations on this organ are the following. I
have met with persons excessively fond of news, which, if
extravagant, were the more acceptable; prone to the expres-
sion of surprise and astonishment in ordinary discourse;
deeply affected by tales of wonder; delighting in the Ara-
bian Nights7
Entertainments, and the mysterious incidents
C F. E D E N CIVEXESS. 283
abounding in the Waverly Novels; and in them 1 have uni-
formly found the part of the brain in question largely deve-
loped. When the organ predominates in an individual, there
is a peculiar look of Wonder, and an unconscious turning
up of the exterior angles of the eye-lashes, expressive of
surprise. In other persons, 1 have found the part of the
brain in question small, and in them it was accompanied
with a staid soberness of feeling, diametrically the opposite
of the manifestations above described. Such individuals
are annoyed by every thing new or strange; they scarcely
felt or expressed surprise, and had no taste for narratives
leaving the beaten track of probability or reality, and soar-
ing into the regions of supernatural fiction. On analyzing
these manifestations, they all appear to be referable to the
sentiment of Wonder, an emotion which is quite distinguish-
able from those hitherto enumerated."
" I am disposed to infer, that the legitimate tendency of
this sentiment is to inspire the mind with a longing after
novelty in every thing, and that its proper effect is to stimu-
late to invention and improvement.*'
Dr. Spurzheim concludes his account of this faculty with
the following remarks: "The preceding facts,*' says he,
" determined me formerly to designate this feeling by the
name of Supernaturality; and it is certain that it is princi-
pally manifested by a belief in miraculous and supernatural
circumstances, in the foundation of religion by supernatural
means, and in its dogmatical points. As, however, the feel-
ing may be applied both to natural and supernatural events,
and in every case fills the mind with amazement and sur-
prise, I do not hesitate to change the name of Supernatu-
rality to that of Marvellousness. This name I prefer to that
of Wonder, adopted by Mr. Combe, because, according to
Dr. Johnson's Dictionary, wonder is applicable only to sur-
prise excited by natural objects, while marvellousness em-
284 PHRENOLOGY.
braces both kinds of astonishment caused by natural and
supernatural circumstances. 7 '
Mr. Combe concludes: " The general function of the
organ is regarded as ascertained : but its metaphysical
analysis is still incomplete."
I consider this propensity as designed, like all the others,
to produce actions, or to modify actions which other pro-
pensities originate. Marvellousness and Wonder are feel-
ings, which under some circumstances, precede the actions,
just as pity precedes the actions produced by Kindness. In
order to determine the kind of actions which Credencive-
ness produces, we must consider the relation which it bears
to Submissiveness, and to the other propensities; and en-
deavor to ascertain its utility in promoting the harmonious
operations of society. It is my opinion, that belief in testi-
mony of all kinds, depends upon this propensity. Faith,
belief, conviction, are its ordinary affections, when acting
in combination with the intellect, upon a subject that can
be understood. Wonder and marvellousness are caused by
its operation when the subject is extraordinary, and not fully
understood. Combined with Submissiveness, it disposes to
faith in the testimony of others, on account of our respect
for their characters. This principle is recognized in all
courts, that the more exalted and honorable the character
of the witness, the more credit is due to his testimony.
The organ is much larger in children than adults, and
enables them to rely with perfect confidence in the state-
ments of their parents. Such is the constitution of their
minds, that they believe the most extraordinary things upon
the bare assertion of their parents or guardians. And this
is necessary in order to govern and guide them, in cases
where they have no experience of their own.
When explaining Hopefulness, the highest of the Ipseals,
I stated that it is related to futurity through the medium of
C aiDENCIV E N E s s. 285
Causality. The same is true of Credenciveness. That
which is present, and subject to the test of the Senses and
Lower Perceptives, cannot be a subject of belief—it is posi-
tive knowledge. But when any thing is absent, or contin-
gent, or to come, it is tben a legitimate subject for the exer-
cise of this propensity. It is more dependent upon Cau-
sality than any of the other Socials; and is much more di-
rectly related to it. In the brain, the convolution of Cre-
denciveness seems to go forward on purpose to join Cau-
sality. Indeed, the Reflectives can hardly be said to guide
the Socials, except through the medium of this important
propensity. Firmness, Submissiveness, and Conscientious-
ness are greatly affected by a change of belief.
Every proposition, the truth of which we cannot test by
the evidence of our own senses, if it is probable, or even
possible, is calculated to excite and gratify Credencivc-
ness. But its most natural stimulus is the testimony of
intelligent beings. 1 consider it as specially designed to
make us act upon the testimony of others, and particularly
of our superiors, in cases where we cannot have the evi-
dence of our Senses. Impressions enter through the Senses
to the Perceptives, and are analyzed, classed and connected
by the Reflectives. Causality performs the last and high-
est process of intellect; and if the proposition is not perfectly
self-evident, it becomes a matter of belief or of skepti-
cism; that is, it becomes an appropriate stimulus for Creden-
civeness. This propensity is of course modified in its action
according to the nature of the subject, the amount of evi-
dence, the proportion of Credenciveness to intellect, and the
effect which it is to have upon our interests, or our hopes.
Whether an individual will be skeptical or credulous, de-
pends upon the proportion which his intellect bears to Cre-
denciveness and Submissiveness. Those who have very
high but shallow foreheads, are apt to be foolishly credu-
286 r H R E N O L O G Y.
lous; and those who have low and prominent foreheads, are
inclined to skepticism. They wish to investigate much and
believe but little. There is a third class who have fore-
heads wide, high and prominent—they love to believe when
they can ; but they cannot without proper investigation.
They examine thoroughly, and believe sincerely, many con-
troverted doctrines—they seem to take pleasure in revolv-
ing in their minds doubtful subjects, even if they cannot
quite believe them. If it is something which challenges
belief—if it has probability or even possibility in its favor,
it is a proper subject to stimulate and delight this propensity,
and produce the feeling of marvellousness. This enables
us to understand the characters of novelists and romancers
and dramatic authors, such as Scott, Voltaire, Shakspeare,
and Tasso, who all had very high foreheads, particularly
in the region of this organ and Imitativeness. Those
who have been remarkable for faith upon religious subjects,
have the same developement, combined with Submissiveness.
Such are Bunyan, Baxter, Swedenborgh, Irving, Wesley,
and hundreds with whom I am acquainted.
I consider this as one of the most important elements of a
love of knowledge. The ability or the talent of knowing,
depends upon the intellect, —but the desire, the love, the
proneness to learn, depends upon the propensities. Each
propensity produces a desire to know that which will be
gratifying to itself. The highest gratification of Credent
civeness consists in knowing what people have said or wrh>
ten. It is easy, therefore, to understand why those who
have it large should be very fond of reading or hearing the
extraordinary assertions of others, and of inquiring into
their truth. If the intellect is large, they will be commonly
successful in their inquiries; but if it is small they may be
induced to give credence to the most absurd statements. It
is this propensity that makes us love to hear or read extra-
CREDENCIVENESS. 287
ordinary things, even if we do not believe them. It seems
as if some love to stretch their faith to its utmost, just to give
it exercise;—the more marvellous the story, the better it
suits them: and if Submissiveness is large, and the state-
ment is made upon high authority, it becomes perfectly
charming. This organ is larger in youth than adults, and
in women than men. It accounts for the love of the marvel-
lous manifested by children; for the pernicious novel reading
habits of girls; and for the ease with which impostors of all
descriptions succeed with the generality of females. I have
noticed that those women who in youth read the most novels,
and the least science, in maturer years are the most prone
to superstition and fanaticism. They are much greater
•sticklers for matters of mere faith and form, than for
moral and christian practice.
The exposition which I have made of this propensity,
shows that it is one of very great importance in society. It
is the grand lever, by means of which the few can govern
the many more despotically than by any other. It is for
this reason that the union of church and state is a desirable
object with all despots, and adds immensely to their power.
This is plainly, then, a conforming Social propensity;
since it is the means by which children and all ignorant
persons are guided. Nothing renders a man more ungo-
vernable, or unamiable, than a disposition to doubt every
thing he hears; and to rely entirely upon his own judgment
and observation, instead of giving due weight to the testi-
mony of others.
In regard to the lower animals, it is more difficult to
show that they possess Credenciveness, than any of the other
Socials. It is certain that they have it in a less degree than
any of the others, which alone is sufficient to prove its exalt-
ed nature.
It is worthy of remark, that Hopefulness, the highest
'188 PHRENOLOGY.
Ipseal, and Crcdenciveness, the highest Social, and Caus-
ality, the highest Intellectual, are connected together at the
top of the brain: and it is curious to study the relation in
which these three important powers stand to each other,
and to the Perceptives. The Lower and Middle Perce p-
tives are related to thai which is perceptible, present, and
certain. The Reflectives, to that which is certain, but
which is not present to the senses; and which is known only
by deduction. Crcdenciveness to that which is probable,
and Hopefulness to that which is possible. We may hope
for that which we do not believe—we may believe what we
connot prove by reasoning; and we may prove by reason-
ing what we cannot test by the senses and Perceptives.
The region of perception is at the base of the brain;—of
reflection, a little higher; (see bust,) of credence, in the
upper part of the forehead, and hope a little farther back.
In a well balanced mind, these will bear a just proportion to
each other; and in making an examination, it is of the very
highest importance that the relative developement of the
lower and upper parts of the forehead should be compared
with each other, since they have an important mutual influ-
ence. Those who have excelled in practical science have
the lower predominant, and those who have excelled in fic-
tion, the upper; while those who have avoided both ex-
tremes are balanced.
LOCATION OF THE SOCIALS. 289
LOCATION OF THE SOCIALS.
1st. Amativeness, or the Cerebellum, is so situated as
to produce width and fullness in the neck, between the
lower part of the ears, as in Burr, and Socrates. When
large, it causes the muscles below it to appear large and
full, and crowds the bones behind the ears outward, and
makes them prominent. It is small in W. H. H., the good
natured schoolmaster, and in children.
2d. Parentiveness is just above Amativeness, in the
median line; it is a large organ, and produces, when much
developed, great length from the ear to the back part of the
head. In many instances, it produces a large protuberance,
as in W. H. H. Sometimes it combines with 3d and 4th,
to give general length behind, as in Dioclesian and T. Burr.
3d. Inhabitiveness is just above Parentiveness, in the
median line. It is large, combined with Firmness, while
Parentiveness is small in the head of J. Brutus, who con-
demned his son to death, for treason against the liberties
of his country.
4th. Adhesiveness is at the side of 3d and above V and
the lateral parts of 2d. It gives length and breadth to that
part, and when 2d and 3d are small, it sometimes presents
two round prominences. The whole of this Group is very
large in Dioclesian, the Roman Emperor, who abdicated
the throne to enjoy domestic happiness.
5th. Imperativeness is in the median line, between 3d
and 7th; see Peter the Great, and contrast him with W.
H. H.
6th. Approbativeness is on the side of 5th, above 4th,
and gives both width and length to that part, in the same
25
290 PHRENOLOGY.
way that 4th does below it; and when 5th is depressed, and
6th is large, it will present two distinct protuberances; but
when the adjacent organs are all large, it only combines to
produce general fullness in the region, as in Themisotcles,
the Athenian general, in Clinton, in Peter, and in Franklin.
Sometimes it is considered large, compared with 5th, be-
cause the head, at that place, is more remarkable for its
width, than its length in the median line. (See Perkins.)
7th. Firmness gives height to the back of the head, in
the median line, above 5th and behind 9th, as in Themisto-
cles, Burr, Brutus, and Red Jacket's wife.
8th. Conscientiousness is situated on the outside of 7th,
and when large, gives the part a full rounded appearance,
as in Aristides the Just, in Sir Matthew Hale, and in Sam-
uel Adams. When small, and 7th large, the head falls off
on each side of the median line, like a roof. When both
7th and 8th are small, the whole upper back of the head
declines from 9th, as in Americus, and W. H. H. Some-
times the combination of organs adjacent to 8th will be such
as to render it doubtful in what precise degree it is develo-
ped; its deficiency is frequently indicated by a slight depres-
sion, which is sensible only to minute examination; but we
must not mistake a depression that is sometimes found so
far from 7th and so near to VII as to allow of a good de-
velopement of 8th, between VII and Sth.
9th. Submissiveness is in the median line, between 7th
and 10th, at the place where the anterior fontenelle is form-
ed in children. I find the organ to extend farther laterally
than it is generally marked upon phrenological busts. In
the heads of men, particularly at the West, a depression here
is general; but in women, this organ is so full, and 7th
so small, as to give the top of the head the regular form of
the side of an egg, as in T. Burr. In Socrates this organ
is very large. It is large in most Negroes, with 7th small.
ThfniisLo rirs *.//_ //
LOCATION OF THE SOCIALS. 291
I have found it in many of the higher animals distinctly de-
veloped, particularly in ihe dog and horse.
10th. Kindness is between 9th and 14. It gives height
to the forehead above 14. Sometimes that part which is
next to 9th is large, and that which is nearest to 14 is small,
and sometimes the reverse is true. I have found the for-
mer oftenest in women, and the latter in men. When the
front part of 10th is large, it is manifested more intellectually
and deliberately than when the back part is largest; the
latter act more by impulse, the former by reason—see the
difference between Burr and his daughter Theodosia in this
respect; contrast also the heads of Socrates, and West, and
W. H. H., with the Parricide, and with Mrs. Rapp.
11th. Imitativeness is situated on the side of 10th, and
runs parallel with it ; the convolution, (see view of the
brain,) originates with 9th, and runs forward into 14 and 15;
thus indicating its true and natural relation to those organs.
See Socrates and West, and contrast their heads in that
part with that of Red Jacket's wife, and with Mrs. Rapp.
12th. Credenciveness also originates at 9lh, borders
upon XII, and runs forward to 15. It gives both height and
width to the upper lateral part of the forehead, before XII,
above XI, and at the outside of 11th. Observe in this or-
gan, the great contrast between the heads of Paine, Hume,
and Gibbon, in whom 12th is small, and the heads of Socra-
tes, West, and Lougel, in whom it is very large. I have
observed that when the front part of 11th and 12th is much
developed, and the back part but little developed, the mani-
festation was very different from the cases in which the
back part of these organs is large, and the front part small:
the latter seem to have a greater desire to know, to be cu-
rious, to inquire, to understand human nature—in short, to
use these conforming social propensities in combination with
the intellect; while the former are apt to act upon impulse,
292 PHRENOLOGY.
to take testimony upon trust, and to sympathise ignorantly
and indiscriminately. This explains why the authors, and
painters, and orators, who have been most felicitous in their
discriptions of human nature, have high foreheads, while
those who have written best upon natural science, or excel-
led in the useful arts, have low foreheads; or, at least, the
intellect (particularly the lowest Range,) has been greater
than the high Propensities that border upon it. In exami-
ning the Socials, we should be careful to study the propor-
tion and relation which they bear to each other; for upon
this there is much more depending than has been supposed.
I have found, for instance, that an individual who had 8th
above medium, would be false to friends if 4th was small;
whilst he would not on any account be known to be disho-
nest, or even suspected, lest his large 6th should be disa-
greeably affected. I also know men with moderate IX, and
4th, and large 1st, with 8th more than medium, who will be
false in their professions to their female friends, and true to
their mercantile friends. It is therefore obviously a task
which requires an experienced and discriminating mind, to
combine the developements and judge correctly of results
in all cases.
In learning the location of the organs, it will be necessary
to have the use of a skull to ascertain the bony processes,
and sinuses, and sutures, that are apt to mislead the novice;
and it will be still better to have access to a collection of
skulls. A plaster-of-Paris casting of the brain, will also be
very useful, to those who wish to study the science minutely.
For the benefit of those who have not an opportunity to
examine the brain, or its castings, I have designed, with
great care, a view of the base, and of the side of the brain,
(see plate 1.) showing the convolutions as I think they will
generally be found in the head. Perhaps the side view is,
on some accounts, preferable to any casting, or even a real
Plate I'//
MEASUREMENT OF THE ORGANS. 293
brain; as it shows the relative position of the convolutions of
the brain to the face. It is also calculated to remove the
common impression, that the form of the brain has no influ-
ence on the position of the bones of the face. Perhaps I may
as well remark in this place, that the relative position of the
ear and the eye, depends upon the degree in which the ante-
rior lobe is developed dotcnward, compared with the middle
lobe; for the ear is situated at the base of the middle lobe,
and the eye at the base of the frontal lobe; and if the base
of one of the lobes is lower than usual, of course the relative
position of the ear, the eye, and even of the nose, will be
different. It is common to see persons who are unusually
high from the ear to 9th and 10th, but who, notwithstanding,
have low foreheads; this is owing to the fact, that the fron-
tal lobe is not developed downward as much as usual; and in
them the ear will be low compared to the eye. Is not this
an important fact to practical phrenologians in estimating
the comparative size of the Intellect'? Is it not also worthy
the attention of portrait painters?
MEASUREMENT OF THE ORGANS.
The varying thickness of the skull, and several other cir-
cumstances, render it impossible to judge with mathematical
precision of the size of organs; but we can approximate
sufficiently near for ordinary practical purposes. The
using of numerical figures by phrenologians, has led some
to suppose that the practitioner professed to be able to judge
the exact size of an organ; but it should be understood, that
those figures are used merely as convenient substitutes to
294 PHRENOLOGY.
such expressions as small, rather small, moderate, large,
very large, &c. Some practitioners make use of a scale of
numbers varying from one to twenty, thus making ten a
medium: others take three for a medium; and it will be per-
ceived that it makes no difference what terms are used, if
they express in an intelligible manner, the relative size of
the organs as they appear in the head of the individual. I
make use at present of the following scale:
EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES USED IN EXAMINATION.
1. Small. 6. Rather above medium.
2. Rather small. 7. Large.
3. Moderate. 8. Very large.
4. Rather below medium. 9. Uncommonly large.
5. Medium.
Some make use of craniometors, and callipers, with which
to measure the head; and this method is useful, when the
object is to collect statistical information for special purpo-
ses; but in ordinary practice, the phrenologian should judge,
as the painter does, by his well practised perceptives. Some
have acquired so much skill that they can, by a single glance
at the head across the room, form a correct notion of the
general character.
The boundaries of the organs must also be learned by
experience; since the best marked bust will not be suffi-
cient to convey this information, on account of the difference
in individuals in this respect. I would state that the bust on
the front page is purposely drawn in violation of the rules
of perspective, in order to exhibit the organs in median line
at their full size.
CHAPTER IX.
WILL—HABIT—EDUCATION.
Will is the result of the operation of all the powers of
mind that are interested in any given subject; thus, each
propensity, when active, communicates to the intellect a
peculiar feeling; this excites the powers of the mind to ap-
prove or oppose; and if the number and strength of those
that approve, is greater than those that oppose, an act is per-
mitted that relieves the feelings—and this result we call
will. Circumstances modify will, change it, and even re-
verse it, by exciting different powers into action—thus, un-
der the influence of 8th, 9th, and 12th, we may will to go
to church; but the circumstance of a sudden tempest rever-
ses the will by exciting I and VII; if now a messenger arrives
with the report that the lightning has struck the church, and
injured the pastor, the Socials will be so much roused as to
overcome the Ipseals, and the will is changed again.
Education modifies will; but this is properly included
under the head of circumstances: an individual who has been
educated among the Seminole Indians will be likely to have
a different will, on many subjects, from one who has been
educated among the Turks.
Difference in organization will cause a difference in will,
under the same circumstances, with the same education, and
with precisely the same amount of knowledge of the subject
in question. Thus, a man with large IX, and small 8th and
296 PHRENOLOGY.
10th, wills to rob his neighbor; while another with large 8th
and 10th, and small IX, generously wills to repair the loss
from his own pocket. The criminal wills to violate the law,
and the magistrate wills to punish him. One infant habitually
wills to kick and scratch, while its twin brother wills to
laugh and play.
The old school of philosophers have attempted to account
for most of these differences, by attributing them to habit;
but this is the result of organization and circumstances, and
not the cause. Man does not have legs because he is in the
habit of walking, but he is in the habit of walking because
he has legs. The same is true of his mind; he never would
contract the habit of constructing, unless he first had an or-
gan of Constructiveness; nor of reasoning, unless he had
the organ of Causality; but having these organs, the influence
of habit and education upon them is acknowledged; and its
importance insisted on by all good phrenologians.
Education is the cultivation of the powers which are
inherent in the constitution, with a view to their improve-
ment; and it is only upon phrenological principles, that it
can be properly conducted. My own observations agree
with the testimony of all phrenologians, that the proper ex-
ercise of any organ tends to increase its size and its power.
This is universally admitted to be true of the bodily organs,
and it is fair to infer, from analogy, that the same is true of
the mental organs. But I am satisfied that exercise and
excitement have much more effect upon the brain to increase
its size, than upon any of the bodily organs. I arrive at
this conclusion in the following manner:
1. The brain is the most delicate in its structure of all
the organs in the constitution.
2. It is well known, that when any part of the constitu-
tion is excited, the blood immediately rushes to it; and the
quantity of blood which it receives, is in proportion to the
W I L L H A B I T E DUCATION. 297
degree of excitement and exercise which the organ receives.
3. The amount of blood which the brain receives, is seve-
ral times greater than that of any other organ in the con-
stitution, of equal bulk.
4. When the mind is unusually exercised, an uncommon
quantity of blood enters the brain, distends its vessels, and
stimulates and nourishes its organs, in proportion to their
increased necessities.
5. It has been proved, by actual observation of the un-
covered brain, during life, that the blood vessels become
fuller during mental excitement.
From all these facts, I think I may safely conclude, that
the habitual exercise of the organs of the mind, has a grea-
ter effect in increasing their size and power, than any other
organs in the human constitution. What is true of the,
whole brain must be true of each organ of which it is compo-
sed—the organ which is most exercised, will ultimately be-
come the largest, and consequently, (for size is a measure
of power) it will be the most powerful. Hence the vast
importance of phrenology in education, since it enables us
to know the organ, or combination of organs, that need the
most exercise.
Some are inclined to doubt, that exercise increases the
size of the cerebral organs, because it is not sufficiently per-
ceptible to their senses; but experiments have been made, by
faking casts of the head at different periods, which estab-
lish it beyond a doubt. It is my opinion, that the variety
in the heads of the different races of mankind, is owing
to the various kinds and degrees of exercise which the
different organs of the mind have received; and although
the change during one generation was scarcely perceptible,
it has finally amounted to the difference which actually ex-
ists between the Negro, the Indian and the Caucasian.
26
298 PHRENOLOGY,
COMBINATION OF ORGANS.
If an Ipseal sometimes acts for the benefit of society, it
is because it is controlled by one or more of the Socials;
and if a Social appears to act for the benefit of self alone,
it is because it is controlled by one or more of the Ipseals.
Thus, if a man has a very large IX, and small 4th and 8th,
he may marry for money; but in such a case the Ipseal
controls the Social feelings, and presses them into the service
by superior force. The same is true when a Social con-
trols an Ipseal—when a man accumulates property to grati-
fy others, his IX will be found smaller than his 6th and 10th.
This explains away an objection which has been made to
my classification—that the Socials sometimes act for self,
and the Ipseals sometimes for society ; and that there-
fore, there is no philosophical ground for a distinction be-
tween Ipseals and Socials: but in every instance in which
an Ipseal acts for society, it will be found that it does so in
consequence of the superior influence of one or more of the
Socials. The self-relative nature of X, XI, and XII, is not
so obvious, to some, as the other Ipseals, but they can, not-
withstanding, be shown to be as really self-relative as any
of this class;—the reason why they do not appear so selfish
is because their objects are higher, and nobler, and more
refined. It will be found that they never act for society,
unless influenced to do so by the Socials: for instance, X
was intended for the benefit of self; but if 4th is large, the
sport will be enjoyed in society. The same is true of XI
and XII. It would require several volumes to detail mi-
nutely, the results of all the different combinations which
the organs may form; I shall therefore leave this subject to
the judgment of the philosophical student.
CHAPTER X.
PHRENO-PHYSIOGNOMY.
Under this head I include, all the appearances of the body
and face, which indicate character by reason of their har-
mony with the Phrenological Organs. The bodies, limbs,
and features of animals, are always perfectly adapted to
their several dispositions and capacities. If two animals
differ in character, there is always a corresponding diffe-
rence in their external appearances. The aspect of a tiger
is never found connected with the disposition of a lamb; nor
the disposition of the vulture, in the form of the dove.
There is always an adaptation of the mental powers of ani-
mals to their external organs;—there is harmony between
the brain, in which the actions originate, and the limbs,
elaws, teeth, and other instruments of action. No animal
possesses a large organ of Destructiveness, without being
furnished also with some appropriate apparatus, with which
to execute the wishes of the propensity. It is upon this
principle that the classification of animals by naturalists is
founded.
Animals are divided by naturalists into two grand divi-
sions—the vertebrated, or those which have a back bone
and the invertebraled, or those which are without a back
bone.
The verlebrated animals are subdivided into fishes, rep-
tiles, birds, and mammalia.
300 PHRENOLOGY.
The mammalia is the highest class of animals. At the
head of this class is man; next, the ape and monkey tribes;
and then the various quadrupeds, which are subdivided into
several genera and species, for a more particular account
of which 1 refer the student to the proper works on Natural
History. But the most important subdivision of the mam-
malia, are those which are founded upon the forms of their
teeth, as indicative of their different modes of procuring
food.
The teeth of animals are of three kinds; the incisors, or
cutting teeth, in front; the molares, or grinding teeth, in the
back of the mouth; and the canine, or tearing teeth, between
the incisors and molares.
Carniverous, herbiverous, and rodentia animals are easily
distinguished from each other by .the difference in their teeth.
In the carniverous, the canine teeth predominate; as may
be seen in plate VIII. fig. 1, (lower jaw of a tiger,) in which
the canine teeth b, are large and pointed, and the incisiors, a,
are short and sharp, and arranged in a straight row between
the canine. Fig. 2, head of a lion, represents the same idea.
In the herbiverous animals, (fig. 5 and 6, the horse,)
the molares predominate, the canine teeth are wanting, and
the incisors a, are large, and standing outward; whereas the
incisors of the carnivora are either perpendicular, or
standing inward. The herbiverous teeth are also arranged
more in the form of a crescent, instead of being arranged
straight across, like those of the lion. The jaws of the her-
bivora are comparatively longer and narrower than those
of the carnivora, which are short, and at the place where
the canine teeth a, are situated, are larger.
In the rodentia, (fig. 9 and 10, the beaver,) the incisors
predominate; and it is from this peculiarity that they have
derived their appellation of rodentia or gnawers. In these,
the canine b, are wanting, and the two incisors a, assume
Beaver
P H R E N O - P H Y S I O G N O M Y. 301
a peculiar long projecting form. The form of the jaw of
the rodentia is also peculiar, reducing the chin to almost
nothing, by the sloping manner in which the lower teeth
extend from the under jaw to meet the upper teeth. In the
carnivora, particularly in the bull-dog, the under jaw pro-
jects in front beyond the incisive teeth.
Comparative Phrenology has proved that those animals
which have a predominance of the canine teeth (as all car-
niverous animals do) have also a predominance of the or-
gan of Destructiveness. Those which have a predominance
of the molares, and lack the canine teeth, (this is the case
with all herbiverous animals,) have the organ of Cautious-
ness predominating over Destructiveness. Those, again,
which have the incisive teeth predominant, as the beaver,
rat, squirrel, and all the rodentia tribe, —have the organs of
Constructiveness and Acquisitiveness predominant.
I now come to the application of this subject to mankind.
In a man of balanced and perfect cerebral organization,
the three kinds of teeth, the molares, the canine, and the
incisors, will be in harmony; they will approximate in
their general form and arrangement, to the carniverous, the
herbiverous, and the rodentia; but they will not bear a very
striking resemblance to either class of animals;—they will
be formed and arranged in that beautiful manner which is
peculiarly human.
I have already explained in another place, that man
has all the Ipseal Propensities which are possessed by the
lower animals, with the addition of another and higher
Range. Every man has the Carniverous, the Herbiverous,
and the Rodentia Ranges; but in some men the Carniverous
Range predominates considerably over all the other Ipseals;
and in others the Rodentia Range is most developed. Those
persons (Plate VIII, fig. 3 and 4,) who have the Carniverous
R.ange very large, have also carniverous teeth; that is, their
26*
302 PHRENOLOGY.
teeth approximate in form and arrangement to those of car-
niverous animals. They have the same short, broad jaw,
and in every particular the jaws and teeth resemble those of
the carnivora. The portraits of Henry VIII of England,
of Nero, of Bishop Bonner, of Luther, of Vittellius the
Roman Emperor, and indeed of all men of destructive
character, have this form of jaw and teeth. Melancton,
Henry VI, Richard II, and other gentle characters, have
more slender jaws and a less offensive kind of teeth.
Those men (Fig. 5, 6 and 7,) who have the Herbiverous
Range of Ipseals, very much developed, with the Offen-
sive Range very deficient, will most generally be found to
have the long slender jaw, and large incisive teeth of the
herbiverous animals; the teeth and jaws will resemble those
of the horse. Those men (Fig. 9, 10 and 11,) who have the
Rodentia Range very large and predominant, will have the
two front incisive teeth long, and the jaw narrow on each
side of them; the canine teeth being small, and the chin
less prominent than those who have the carniverous teeth
predominant; indeed the whole physiognomy will be found
to resemble the rat, and the beaver. This whole doctrine
may be expressed in the single proposition, that a man who
has the propensities which characterize a class of animals,
will also have a form offace approximating to theirs.
In order to test this fairly, we should take extreme cases
of the different classes of men, and compare them together;
take, for instance, a notorious miser, who has the organ of
Acquisitiveness very large, and who is deficient in the Car-
niverous Range, a mean, cowardly character; and contrast
his face, and jaws, and teeth, with those of a ruffian,
who is reckless alike of property, of danger, and of life.
Then compare both of these with one who has neither the
Carniverous nor the Rodentia Propensities large, but who
has a long narrow head and jaw like a horse or deer. In
P H R E N - P H Y S I O G N M Y. 303
this way any one may soon be satisfied, that this principle
is correct, and founded in nature. It is a most curious and
interesting result, to which I have been gradually led, by
the discovery of the true and natural classification of the
Phrenological Organs.
There are many men who have such a compound of
qualities as to render it difficult to say to which of these
three classes of animals they bear the most resemblance; and
this same mixture will be found in some animals; the fox.
for instance, combines the cunning, the carniverous, and
the herbiverous, and I have often been struck with the re-
semblance in the physiognomy of the fox, to some cunning
characters with whom I have been acquainted. The jaws,
slender and pointed, indicating a combination of the carni-
verous and herbiverous—of ferocity and weakness. Com-
pare the face of Godoi, the prince of peace, and the artful
and sanguinary Richelieu, with the face of a fox, and see if
there is no resemblance.
My success in these observations, led me to extend them
further, and notice the resemblance of men to animals in
other particulars; and I find that the same general princi-
ple is equally applicable to other features besides the jaws
and teeth. Timid men have ears which resemble those of
timid animals; and destructive men have ears formed like
those of destructive animals; secretive, prowling men, have
eyes large, round, and placed laterally, like those of cats, and
owls, and other nocturnal, prowling animals. Those who
have large Pneumativeness and large lungs, have expanded
nostrils. Those persons who approximate in bodily form
to the carniverous animals, are naturally more fond of meat;
and those who approximate in bodily form to the herbive-
rous, are more fond of vegetable food; the latter are com-
paratively larger in the region of the pelvis and abdomen
than the former.
304 PHRENOLOGY.
NATURAL LANGUAGE.
Each propensity produces a kind of actions peculiar to
itself; and those actions are its natural language. Every
voluntary act, therefore, is the natural language of some
propensity, or of some combination of propensities. When
one propensity—Destructiveness for instance—acts singly,
and powerfully, it draws the muscles and limbs into cer-
tain positions. Every time this propensity is excited, it
produces the same effect—the movements, and the positions,
and the sounds which it produces, are always essentially
the same; and therefore it becomes the sign or language of
that propensit}r. Thus, when we look at a tiger, a dog, or
any other carniverous animal, and see him drawing down
the muscles at the corners of his mouth, in such a manner
as to expose his canine teeth; we consider it a sign that he
is angry—that his Destructiveness is roused. If we look at a
beaver, and perceive that he is sitting near a piece of wood,
with his muscles drawn up so as to expose his incisive teeth,
we consider it a sign than his Constructiveness and Acqui-
sitiveness are active. If we look at a man, and see him
drawing the corners of his mouth down in a similar manner
to the tiger, we have found by experience that it is a sign
of the same propensity—he is angry. If we see a man who
habitually assumes a ferocious or carniverous expression,
we infer that he is a severe character, because we see the
sign stamped upon his face. Take a view of a ferocious
animal, and observe the angle formed by the line of his
closed mouth, and contrast it with the straight line formed by
NATURAL LANGUAGE. 305
the mouth of the peaceable animal. The same difference
will be seen by comparing the mouths of ferocious and of
peaceable men. Observe the manner in which the rat, the
squirrel, or the beaver draw up the muscles of the mouth
towards the nose, so as to expose the upper front teeth;—you
will see the same expression in the extreme miser. Observe
the manner in which the proud horse, or dog, or peacock,
elevates his head, when he assumes superiority;—you may
see the same among men. Listen also to the hoarse voice
of the destructive animal; or the sudden, loud barking of the
combative animal; and you may hear the same kind of
sound from the man who is similarly excited.
But one of the most striking and yet unaccountable facts
in natural language, is, that the head moves in the direction
of the organ which is excited; for instance, if an organ in
the side of the head is excited, the head moves from side to
side. If the organ is in the back of the head, it moves back-
ward;—if in the upper back, 7th for instance, the head
moves up and down, decidedly;—if in the upper front, 12th
for example, the head is thrown upward. In reflection it
is thrown forward;—in VI and VII it is moved alternately
from side to side, in the direction of the organ. In all these
movements, the muscles of the face harmonize ; moving
upwards when the higher powers are excited, and down-
wards when the lower are active. The tone of voice, is
also in harmony—the lower powers being generally accom-
panied with low, and the higher with high tones. It is impos-
sible in any written description, to do justice to this subject,
but it enables a lecturer, who has large 11th, 6th and X, to
amuse and instruct a popular audience, by representing the
different manifestations of each propensity; and I have of-
ten seen skeptics convinced of the truth of phrenology, by
a single lecture on Phreno-Physiognomy and Natural Lan-
guage.
306 PHRENOLOGY.
It is now easy to understand the principles upon which
physiognomy is founded; and we can also perceive, that be-
fore the discovery of Phrenology, it was impossible to re-
dace Physiognomy to a science. The efforts of Aristotle,
of Theophrastus, of Lavater, and of Camper, were con-
fined to the observation of the external features, while they
were entirely ignorant of the functions of the brain—the
great fountain of volition. Instead, however, of joining with
some phrenologians, in speaking contemptuously of their
labors, I acknowledge that I find astonishing instances, in
their works, of approximation to phrenological truth. I
consider Physiognomy as an important and highly interest-
ing branch of Phrenology; and it was my original intention
to publish a separate volume on this subject; but the circum-
stance, that some of my pupils have manifested a disposi-
tion to make an unjust appropriation of these ideas, indu-
ces me to crowd an imperfect sketch of them into this vo-
lume.
ORGANS AT DIFFERENT AGES.
The form and size of the organs, both of the head and
body, are continually changing; and some organs are lar-
gest and most active at certain ages.
In Childhood, the most active organs among the Ipseah,
are II, III, IV, VII, and X. Socials, 4th, 6th, 8th, 9th
and 12th. Intellectuals, 1, 3, 7, 11, and the Perceptives
generally.
In Youth—Ipseals, I, V, XI and XII. Socials, 1st be-
comes developed, and produces a change in the whole cha-
racter, by its influence upon the other powers. Intellectuals,
Perceptives generally, and 14.
DIFFERENCE INTHE SEXES. 307
In Manhood—Ipseals generally. Socials, 2d, 3d, 5th
and 7th. Intellectuals, the Reflectives.
In Old Age—Ipseals, VI, VII, and IX. Socials, 2d
and 7th. Intellectuals, Reflectives grow large and the Per-
ceptives small.
There is also a change of temperament. The Digestive
and Arterial Systems predominate in childhood, the Muscu-
lar and Arterial, in youth, and manhood; and the Osseous
and Venous in old age.
The organs in childhood and youth are more yielding,
pliable, and elastic. But in old age they are brittle, hard,
and inelastic; with a smaller proportion of the liquid ele-
ments to the solids.
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE SEXES.
The cerebral organization which would constitute a per-
fect female, would be very imperfect if possessed by a male,
and visa versa. It is universally admitted, that men and
women differ in certain traits; and the phrenologian finds a
corresponding difference in their developements of brain.
The following is the result of my observations on this subject:
ORGANS LARGEST IN WOMEN.
Intellect— 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 13.
Ipseals—VI, VII, XI, XII.
Socials—2d, 4th, 6th, 8th, 9th, 11th, 12th.
ORGANS LARGEST IN MEN.
Intellect—6, 9, 10, 14, 15.
Ipseals—I, II, III, IV, V, X.
Socials—1st, 3d, 5th, 7th.
308 PHRENOLOGY.
Some of the organs are omitted, because I have not yet
satisfied myself which sex has them largest. There are also
differences in temperament, and 1 think the following will
he found generally correct:
LARGEST IN WOMEN. LARGEST IN MEN.
Nervous System, Osseous System,
Digestive System, Muscular System,
Venous System, Arterial System,
Breadth of Pelvis. Breadth of Chest.
Men have larger heads and bodies than women; but I am
not satisfied whether men have larger heads than women in
proportion to their bodies.
RESEMBLANCE TO PARENTS.
1 have lately discovered a method by which to ascertain,
with tolerable accuracy, which parent an individual most
resembles. My attention was first directed to this subject by
the fact that great men seldom have sons equal to themselves
in talent and energy; and also the well known fact that
eminent men generally resemble their mothers. The result
of all my observations on this interesting point may be com-
prised in the following propositions:
1. Those men who have many of the peculiarities of the
female developed in a greater degree than ordinary, gene-
rally resemble the mother; and those men, on the contrary,
who have many of the peculiarities of the male, and are
deficient in those that belong to the female, resemble the
father.
RESEMBLANCE TO PARENTS. 309
A man who resembles bis father, and does not resem-
ble his mother, (health and every thing else equal) is smal-
ler than his father in stature, and has a smaller head. But
a man who resembles his mother, and not his father, is fre-
quently taller than his father, and has a larger head. If a
man and his wife are both of the ordinary size and propor-
tion, or of such size and proportion as 10 be proper mates,
then their sons that r the mother will be the largest
will have the largest heads—the most social dispositions—the
greatest fondness for the fine arts, poetry, and romance
the best memories, and the greatest fondness for reading.
3. A woman who resembles her mother, and not her
father, is fall else equal) inferior to her mother in size of
head and body, and in energy of character: but a woman
who resembles her father, is frequently superior, in size and
in energy, to her mother.
4 Men who resemble the mother, generally resemble the
maternal grandfather; and sometimes the resemblance is
even greater to the grandfather, than to either father or
mother. Daughters that resemble the father, generally re-
semble the paternal grandmother.
5. A child may resemble botb parents; but the qualities
derived from one, may greatly preponderate over those deri-
ved from the other; and sometimes one part of the head will
bear evidence of being derived from the father, and ano-
ther from the mother; sometimes, for instance, it is evi-
dent that the forehead is derived from the father, and the
hind-head from the mother, or the contra. Sometimes the
upper front will be evidently derived from the father and
the lower from the mother. The qualities of both parents
will occasionally be so blended, as to baffle all attempts to
judge which parent's likeness predominates; but in most
cases, by application of the rules concerning the difference
in the sexes, I can easily determine which part of the
27
310 PHRENOLOGY.
head is derived from the father and which from the mother*
6. Men with large heads, and high, full, expansive
foreheads, and large VII and 2d, always resemble the mo-
ther. They will also be likely to possess the peculiar tem-
perament of females in a greater degree than those who re-
semble the father only.
7. A man sometimes has many feminine peculiarities
more than medium, and yet resembles his father, (except that
he is smaller) but in such a case the father had the femi-
nine peculiarities uncommonly developed, and the father
mother had them in a still greater degree. It must be ad-
mitted, however, that we shall be likely to err in our judg-
ment in ^uch instances. The same difficulty occurs when
the mother is uncommonly masculine; a daughter that re-
sembles her will appear like those females that resemble
the father; and in such a case, the examiner will be likely
to be misled. But even in these apparent exceptions to the
general rule, it will always be found, that the female who
resembles the mother, although quite as masculine as the
generality of those females who resemble the father, will
yet be less masculine than the mother. And those males
who resemble an effeminate father, although quite as femi-
nine as the generality of those who resemble the mother,
will yet be less so than the father; and will be smaller in
size of head and body than the father.
8. The best constitutions of bod}' and mind, are those
which resemble both parents; and it. is better (all else equal)
that the likeness of the mother should predominate in ihe
son, and of the father in the daughter. It is better still,
if the likeness of ihe maternal grandfather descend to a
boy and of the paternal grandmother to a gill. This ex-
plains why great men generally resemble their mothers;
and also why they seldom have sons equal to themselves.
9. The more the parents resemble each other, the more
RESEMBLANCE TO PARENTS. 311
probability is there that the children will resemble one parent
and not the other. Bi.u if the parentsdiffer very much from
each other, the children will be more likely to resemble both.
This explains why it is improper to marry near blood re-
lations. It has long been known that intermarriages of
relations produces degeneracy; but the cause of this has
never before been understood. The union of whites and Ne-
groes, almost always produces mullaltoes, and the whites
and Indians mingle in a smilar manner; but among those
who intermarry with the same complexion, and nation, and
community, and even the same family, and who continue
to do so for several generations, if the preceding rules are
correct, degeneracy must be the inevitable consequence.
It is among these that we most frequently find the children
resembling one parent onlv. But this subject teaches us,
that if marriages are consummated between persons who are
very much alike in constitution, the consequences will be
nearly the same as if they were relations.
There is nothing in the application of the principles of
Phrenology which creates so much ou rpylao as the subject
under consideration; and perhaps there is no more powerful
evidence to the minds of the inexperienced, of the truth of
the science. I have frequently been able to give a correct
account of the general character of a man whom 1 have
never seen, merely by examining the head of his son.
Let me, in conclusion, caul ion the practitioner against pla-
cing too much reliance upon the assertions of friends and ac-
quaintances, in relation to the resemblance of persons who are
present to those who are absent; as I frequently find the mest
intimate friends mistaken. Whenever it is possible to see for
yourself, the best way is to depend onlv upon observation.
I would also advise those who apply phrenology practi-
cally, to admit their liabilities, in some doubtful cases,
to be mistaken; and when they perceive their mistakes, to
SIP- PHRENOLOGY,
acknowledge them with promptness and candor. The con-
sequence of this honest course, will be, that although some
may doubt the infallibility of the science, they will, at least,
have confidence in the integrity of its advocate.
RELIGION.
The Deity stands in nearly the same relation to the whole
universe, that an absolute sovereign does to his dominions,
or that a father does to his children. The difference is,
that the attributes of all earthly beings are limited; but
those of the Deity are infinite.
Religion consists in directing towards our Heavenly Fa-
ther, the same 4th, 6th, 8th, 9th, 11th, 12th, and XII that,
as children, are exercised towards our earthly parents. It
consists in exercising all our Intellectual Faculties to know
his will, and our Social Propensities to conform to it
known-- repressing the activity of our 5th and 7th, and our
Lower Ipseals. I cannot therefore approve the practice of
some well meaning phrenologians who speak of Religious
Organs;—there arc no such organs—there are religious
subjects which are adapted to nearly all our organs and
powers. We investigate the subject of religion with the
same faculties with which we do all other subjects;—we
give credence to the testimony upon which Christianity is
founded, by means of the same 12th that enables us to be-
lieve on other subjects. The same 9th that prompts us to
submit to our earthly parents and magistrates, induces us
to submit to the government of God, and to revere his name:
the same 11th to imitate his perfections; 8th to admit the
justice of his laws; 6th to desire his approbation; VII to
dread his punishment; and XII to hope for his rewards.
ACCOUNTABILIT Y—C ONCLUSION. 313
ACCOUNTABILITY.
Each organ in the human constitution, has its own pecu-
liar laws, the violations of which are punished by unhappi-
ness, and the observance, rewarded by happiness. The kinds
of accountability must therefore be as numerous as the or-
gans in the constitution; and the degrees of accountability
must be proportionate to the size of the organ, and the extent
of the violation. The transgression of the laws which re-
gulate the body, is punished by bodily suffering, and this
may be denominated corporeal'accountability.
Moral accountability, as it is commonly understood, would
be more properly denominated social accountability, since it
depends mostly upon the Socials, 8th, 10th and 12th.
Religious accountability, depends principally upon the
higher Socials—8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th, combined
with an intellect which has received religious instruction;
and the degree of accountability will be in proportion to
the natural endowments—the knowledge of the subject—and
the extent of the transgression.
CONCLUSION.
Besides giving my own peculiar views, I have endeavored,
in tliis volume, to embody the essential doctrines of eminent
phrenologians. But it was impossible to do justice to all their
views in detail; I would therefore earnestly recommend to my
readers, the portal of their works, particularly "Combe's
27*
314 PHRENOLOGY.
System of Phrenology,'' which I consider one of the most
elegant works in the English language. This justly popu-
lar author, without making any pretensions to originality,
has clothed the ideas of Spurzheim in the most beautiful
language; and illustrated them in such a manner, as to ren-
der them acceptable even to those who do not believe in the:
science. His "Constitution of Man,'7
bears the same cha-
racter; it is based upon " Spurzheim's Natural Laws of
Man;7
'
a work, which although containing the most sound
and original ideas, was fast sinking into neglect, when the
vigorous pen of Combe embodied and illustrated the same
thoughts, with many useful additions, in such a manner as
to win for them an introduction into the library of every
intelligent English reader. Mr. Combe is now on a visit to
our country, and the manner in which he is received, must
be gratifying to every friend of science, as it is certainly
honorable to our citizens.
I am happy to know that thousands in this country are
daily becoming converts to phrenology; and that among
them are now to be found many who are eminent for their
moral and intellectual worth. Wherever the science has
been fairly investigated, the clamors and sneers of oppo-
sition and skepticism, have given way to the murmurs of
applause and the smiles of approbation. The institutions of
religion, of education, of medical and criminal jurisprudence,
and of social and domestic life, are beginning to feel its in-
fluence; and man has begun to consider his own constitu-
tion as the most important subject of investigation. It is
my highest ambition to contribute to produce these results,
and such I hope will be the tendency of this volume:
" My task is done." "What is writ is writ
Would it were worthier."
CONTENTS
Phrenological Bus
Explanation of Bust, 3
Title page, -------- 5
Preface, -------- "3
Introduction, --_.-_- 9
CHAPTER I.
General Principles of the Constitution, - IB
Osseous System, 14
:ular System, .-_„-- 14
Nervous System, 15
Digestive System, ------ 16
Arterial System, 16
Venous System, - -> - ' - - 16
CHAPTER II.
Tempera.me nt, or Proportion of the Systi 17
Balanced Temperament, 17
Muscular Temperament, ----- 18
Nervous Temperament, - * - - 19
Digestive, or Lymphatic Temperament, - - 21
Arterial, or Sanguine Temperament, - 22
Venous, or Billions Temperament, 24
Facts in support of the Venous Temperament, - 25
Dr. Caldwell's views of Temperament, - - - 27
Quality of Brain, 28
SlO CONTENTS.
CHAPTER III.
General Principles op Phrenology, - - 29
Brain organ of mind, 29
Opinions of Plato, Hipocrates, Aristotle and Descartes, 29
Brain a plurality of organs, ----- 30
Reasons for believing this, ----- 30
Power in proportion to the size of the organs, 30
Size mo.iified by circumstances, - -".. 31
CHAPTER IV.
Anatomy of the Brain, * - - * - 31
Hemispheres of the Brain, * - 32
Median line, ----- - 33
Commissures of the Brain, ----- 33
Corpus collosum, ------ 33
Annular protuberance, ----- 33
Anterior commissure, 34
Middle commissure, ----- 34
Posterior commissure, ----- 34'
Decussation, ...... 34
Pineal gland, ...... 34
Quadrigeminal bodies, ----- 34
Mamillary bodies, ------ 34
Infundibulum, ...... 35
Subdivisions of the Hemispheres, 35
Medulla Oblongata, ------ 36
Brain compared t a ros , - - - - 37
Three columns of the oblongata, 37
Cerebellum, ..-.-._ 37
Cerebrum, -_...-- 33
Three lobes of the cerebrum, 37
Ventricles of the brain, - - -
-
.89
Three horns of the ventricles, ... 39
Corpora striata, and optic thalami, 39
CONTENTS. 317
Substances of the Brain, - - - - 40
Cineritious and medullary, 40
Convolutions of the Brain, 40
Not independent organs, 41
Arteries of the Brain, ------ 42
Anterior, middle, and posterior, 43
Veins, or Sinuses of the Brain, 43
Coverings of the Brain, ----- 44
Pia mater, tunica-arachnoida, dura mater, cranium, 44
Bones of the skull, 44
Sutures of the skull, ----- 45
Bony Protuberances, - - - - 45
Tables of the skull, 46
Diploe, 46
Frontal sinus, ------ 46
Scalp, -------- 46
CHAPTER V.
Classification of the Organs, - - 47
Spurzheinrs Arrangement, ----- 47
Combe's Arrangement, - - - - 48
Combe's remarks on Classification, 49
New Classification, ------ 52
Upon what founded, --.---> 53
Division into Propensities and Intellectuals, - 55
Propensities divided into Ipseals and Socials, - 56
Technical Terms, ------ 57
Definitions of power, propensity, sentiment, emo-
tion, feeling, instinct, passion, sentiment, - 50
CHAPTER VI.
Intellectual Faculties, 61
Spurzheim's subdivision of, - - - - 61
External Senses 6£
318 CONTENTS.
Nerves of the External Senses, 63
To find the page ol the book where each organ is ex-
plained, see explanation of bust, on page 8,
General Attributes op the Intellectuals, - 107
Talents, 107
Memory, 109
Impression, ------- 110
Perception, - - - - - - -119
Conception, - - - - - - -110
Imagination, - - - - - - -111
Association, - - - - - - -113
Attention, .-114
Location of the Intellectuals, 115
CHAPTER VII.
Ipreal Propensities, ----- 119
Arrangement of Ipseals, excluding the new organs, 119
Relation of Ipseals to classes of animals, - - 1*21
Carnivorous, Herbivorous Rodentia Ranges, - - 121
Human Range, -„----« 122
New Organs, - - - - - - 1*22
Corporeal Range, - - - .
- - - 123
Arrangement of Ipseals with the new organs, - - 123
Effects of Propensities, .124
To find the page on which the Ipseals are each explai-
ned, see page 3.
Propensities, feelings, voluntary actions, - - 125
Remarks on the Corporeal Range, - 160
Importance of good arterial blood, - 101
Internal senses, - - - - - - -162
Experiments of Professor Reid, opposed to Bell's
views, - - - - - - -163
Vitativeness, 212
Location of the Ipseals, * 213
CONTENTS. 319
CHAPTER VIII.
Soctal Propensities, -
Subdivision and arrangement into Groups,
To find the page on which the Socials are each explai
neel, see pngc 3.
Location of the Socials, *
Measurement of the Organs, ------
Explanation of the figures aad terms used in exami-
nation, 294
217
217
289
293
Will, Habit, Education, . - - 295
Habit, - - - 296
Education, - „ - 296
Increase of Organs by exercise, - 297
Combination of Organs, - - 298
CHAPTER X.
Phreno-physiognomv, - - 399
Classification of animals according to the forms of
their jaws and teeth, - . - 300
Jaws and teeth of some men resemble those of
animals, - . - 301
Natural Language, . - 304
Organs at Different Ages, . 306
Difference between the Sexes, . . 307
Organs largest, in Women, . 307
Organs largest in Men, . . 307
Temperaments in Women, . . . 308
Temperaments in Men, . . . 308
Resemblance to Parents, . . . 308
Religion, . . 312
Accountability, . . . 313
Conclusion, .... . , . . 313
320 CONTENTS.
ENGRAVINGS.
Bust, .....
Polypus, ....
Large and small Individuality,
Armstrong, ....
Samuel Adams,
Parricide, ....
Americus Yespucius,
Walter Scott,
, 67
68
170
. 256
260
. 260
267
Plats
Plate
Plate
Plate
Plate
Plate
Plale
Plate
LITHOGRAPHIC PLATES.
I. —Views of the Brain, . . facing
II. —Archimedes, Raphael, Baxter, Watt, Mil-
ton, Titian, Columbus, Washington, Fulton, La-
grange, Gibbon, Anacreon, Mr. D. Landlord,
III.—Docatur, Talleyrand, Osceola, Red Jac-
ket's wife, Mrs. Rapp, ....
IV.—Bryant, Franklin, Clinton, Perkins, Ho-
garth,
V.—Burr, Mrs.T. Burr Alston, Peter the Great,
Brutus, Dioclesian, .....
VI.—Isocrates, Aristides, Socrates, Themisto-
cles, W. H. H
VII. —Lougel, B. West, Socrates, T. Paine,
D. Hume, .......
VIII.—Lower jaw of a tiger, skull of a horse,
skull of a beaver, head of a lion, head of a
horse, head of a beaver; fig. 3, ruffian with a
carniverous head, face and teeth; fig. 7, head,
face and teeth of a man with herbiverous physi-
ognomy; fig. 10, head, face and teeth of a ro-
dentia character, or miser; fig. 4, Henry VIII;
fig 8, a fox, fig. 12, Richelieu,
115
213
215
289
290
291
300
