{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1839__hodgson___considerations_on_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Considerations On Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
CONSIDERATIONS
ON
PHRENOLOGY,
IN OONNaXION WITH
AN INTELLECTUAL, MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS
EDUCATION.
BY
THE REV. J. S. HODGSON, M.A.
CUB.I.TB OP C.J.BTLE COMBE, WILTS.
LONDON:
JOHN W . PARKER, WEST STRAND.
ILDCCC.XXXIX.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
~
I
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
PREF ACE.
THE following pages were written, in consequence of the
extraordinary statements, a:nd still more e~traordinary
demands, which have been recently made by some of the
writers on phrenology.
One of these gentlemen frankly avows; that the system
of phrenology is opposed to the doctrines derived from
the Bible,.according to the present mode of interpreting
it; while another requires, that the government of a
people professedly Christian, should, at the national
expense, institute schools for educating children in its
principles. At a time of life when the reflecting powers
are weak, and the mind wholly unable to analyse its own
intellectual states or emotions, children are to be taught
the doctrines of phrenology, as truths, about which there
can be no doubt or hesitation whatever. Th;~_system is
not even allowed to be compared with otqerst but is to
be positively inculcated, as giving the same sort of
information about the mind, as an enumeration of its
qualities does of matter.
A2
Digitized by Google
iv PREFACE.
The phrenologists, therefore, demand of the Legis-
lature of England, to establish throughout the country,
schools, in which children are to be educated in doctrines
contrary to the received mode of interpreting the Bible.
This the State is to do, while, at the same time, an order
Df men exists in it, whose accredited duty it is, to teach
the doctrines of Revelation aecording to the meaning
which is attached to them by the immensely greatest
number of professing Christians. The request certainly
goes too far, or not far enough. If the phrenologists be
right, it does not go far enough; for, in that case, the
present Church Establishment ought to be destroyed, and
its revenues appropriated to the propagation of the newly
discovered science. If, again, the system of human
nature, which the phrenologists teach, be not true, the
request goes too far; for, in that case, the youth of the
country would be educated in a set of opinions, which,
in their maturer years, they would have to unlearn. The
Legislature would manifestly stultify itself, if with one
hand it supported and encouraged a body of men, whose
office it is to teach what is at present believed ·to be the
Christian religion; and with the other hand appropri-
ated funds for the education of youth in a system which
is to super~e it.
Yet, this is the line of action which phrenologists
recommend, and they represent all who do not agree with
Digitized by Google
P&EFACE. v
them in entirely approving it, as influenced by prejudice,
or actuated by selfishness. In an especial manner have
they emptied the vials of . their wpth on .those of the
clergy of the Established Church who have declared
themselves opposed to this scheme of instruction. They
have, without hesitation, charged them with selfishneas,
bigotry, and intolerance, and have described them as
altoge~er opposed to the education of the people.
We have ventured, in the following little work, to
.examine the foundations on w~ich the system of phre-
nology rests; and to investigate its claims to pronounce,
with authority, on subjects of mental philosophy and
religion. We have conducted both these inquiries with
a particular reference to the question of education; and
have presumed, in conclusion, to detail our own views
concerning it.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
ON THE PHYSIOLOGICAL EVIDENCES FOR
PHRENOLOGY.
1. Phrenology founded.oa. the asswned dependance of mind on matter.
2. Different methods of investigation pll1'8Ued by phrenologists and
other inquirers into the human mind. 3. Account of phrenology,
and of the evidences on which it rest& 4. Founded on three 888er-
tiom, (1) that the variela ft.culties of the mind are innate; (2) that
they are dependa.at for their exercise on the organization of the
brain; (3) that each faculty has a particular organ appropriated to
it. ~ Phrenologists try to prove this last proposition by an appeal
to the other parts of the animal economy. 6. Institute a compsri.son
between mental and bodily fatigue. 7. Not fully proved that the
brain i.e the sole seat of thought and sensation. 8. No proof that
the presence of any distinct part of the brain i.e necessary to the
carrying on of the operations of mind. 9. Analogy between the
eecretions of the animal fluids and the operations of thought, loose
and unsatisfactory. 10. Phrenology not really supported by a
eompsri.son of mental and bodily fatigue. 11. Most eminent physi·
ologi.ets, not phrenologists • • • • • • • • • • 13-24
CHAPTER II.
ON THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY OF THE
HUMAN MIND.
12. Later phrenologists appeal from physiology to mental phenomena.
13. Wish their system to be made the basis of a national education.
14, 16, 16. The aaeertion of the phrenologists, that the elder meta.
physicians have mistaken modes of operation for powers of mind,
considered. 17. The phrenologists' enumeration of the mental
faculties. On the Tmo!Ding /acultiu. 18. Not important what
theory on this subject be adopted. 19, 20. Phrenologists have
omitted faculties for the perception of amell and taste. 21, 22.
Their errors concerning the way in which we acquire a knowledge
ordistance, Corm, and size. 23. No particular faculty neceemry for
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
14 THE PHYSIOLOGICAL EV.IDENCES
strictly so called; resembling, in this respect, much more
nearly the phenomena about which, metaphysics, ethics,
and politics are eouersant.
" I have said, that the study of medicine forms one of
the best preparations for the study of mind, to such an
understanding as Locke's. To an understanding less com-
prehensive and less cultivated by a liberal education, the .
effect of this study is likely to be similar to what we may
trace in the works of Hartley, Darwin, and Cabanis; to
all of whom we may, more or less, apply the sarcasm of
Cicero on Aristoxenus, the musician, who attempted to
explain the nature of the soul by comparing it to a har-
mony; ' Hie ab artificio suo non receesit.' In Locke's
Essay not a single passage occurs, savouring of the
anatomical theatre, or of the chemical laboratory."
Had the attention of the distinguished author of the
eloquent dissertation from which the above passage is
taken, been called to the subject, we may confidently
assert, that he would have referred to the system of Gall
and Spurzheim, as still more strongly illustrating the
truth of his remarks, than the works of the physicians to
which he has alluded.
This system is entirely founded on the assumed de-
pendence and subserviency ofmind on matter. On every
side it bears marks of being derived from the schools or
anatomy. It takes for granted, not only that the mind
cannot rightly perform its functions, unless possessed of
an efficient and healthful instrument; but also, that its
exercise has the same efFect upon the organs of the brain
as if it were material. It teaches, that each faculty of
the mind is attached to a separate organ of the brain, and
that when one of these faculties is called into frequent
-~ - ·- - -~ - - -
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
FOR PHllENOLOGY.
action, the corresponding organ is enlarged in the same
way as the muscles of a blacksmith's arms are developed
by his labour in his business.
2. The phrenologists do not seek for information con-
cerning pneumatology, by attending to our consciowmeas,
or .reflecting on the various acts and aft'ections of the
mind. They maintain, that by pursuing such a method,
it is impossible to arrive at any satisfactory conc1U..·
sion ; and that specific knowledge on the subject is only
to be obtained by examining the protuberances on the
skull.
According to them, therefore, those metaphysiciana
have been entirely mistaken, who have conceived that by
turning our attention inward, and diligently recording
the various intellectual states and mental phenomena, &
knowledge of mind may be acquired, &imilar to that which
has resulted from following an analogous plan in the
material world.
The natural philosopherobserves the .equeoces which
take place in the various operations of uatare: he per-
ceives how one event invariably follows another; he
marks their inseparable connexion ; and, by so doing,
is gradually enabled to form a theory which embraces
within its generality, phenomena, which, to the casual
obserier, appear totally disjoined. In a similar way, the
mental philosopher reflects on the susceptibilities and
powers of his own mind, and though his observations
encounter difficulties from which th08C of the other are
free, he is nevertheless, in some measure, able satisfac-
torily to analyze many complex phenomena into their
constituent elements, and to trace the law.by which one
B2
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
16 THE PHYSIOLOGICAL EVIDE~CES
perception, or emotion, is succeeded by another state of
the mind, of a totally different description.
To do so with any success he has hitherto thought it
above all things necessary, constantly to keep before him
the essentially different natures of matter and mind.
In the material world many operations are going on
at the same -time, and variously constituted substances
join in the production of one result. Mind, however, is
single and indivisible. Ideas, indeed, may co-exist, and
not be blended ; but the metaphysician cannot analyze
them in the same way as the chemist separates the various
elementswhich goto the composition ofthe substancewhich
he is examining. . It is memory alone that enables the
inquirer into the human mind, to investigate its suscep-
tibilities or powers; and, iC he would do this successfully,
he must always think of the change which subsists in an
idea when remembered, and when originally suggested.
He pursues a course, therefore, which is beset with many
difficulties, and must advance with great caution and
.circumspection.
If, however, he do so, hislabour is not altogether fruit-
less; and the cultivators in this difficult field have already
·brought away some proofs that their operations have not
eeen entirely nugatory. At all events, they have suc-
ceeded in showing the limits within which our efforts
ought to be directed, if we would increase our knowledge
in this branch of philosophy. They have made known
the futility of every endeavour to discover the way in
which mind is connected with matter; and have demon-
strated, that, if we would make any progress in our know-
ledge of the properties of either, we must always keep
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
FOR PHRENOLOGY. 17
before us the essential difference which subsists between
them. However fine the convolutions and reticulations
of matter may be, still it makes no perceptible advance
towards the nature of mind ; and we are not to think
that, on that account, matter in any way approximate&
to the power of thinking, feeling, or willing. Nor can
we conclude that, simply by reason of the fineness of its
texture, a particular part of the human frame is the
instrument by which the mind performs its operations.
Still less reason have ~e for supposing that, because it
may·be folded in singular convolutions, each of these is
an organ to which is attached a particular faculty of the
thinking principle.
This, however, is the course which the phrenologists
follow. They say, that each of the faculties of the mind
has a distinct organ of the brain appropriated to it;
and that these organs are externally observable by cor-
responding eminences on the surface of the skull. If,
therefore, according to them, we would obtain an exact
acquaintance with the phenomena of mind, we must
not institute a mental analysis, but must confine our
inquiries to an examination of the protuberances of the
head.
• 3. It is not our object to give an account of phreno-
logy ; but as we wish to make some remarks on the uses
to which its advocates are desirous of applying it, we
deem it necessary to state the nature of the system, and
the evidences on which it rests; and this we shall do as
shortly and as fairly as we can.
4. The first assertion of the phrenologists is, that the
various faculties of the mind are innate; they are im-
planted in man at his formation, and are not the result
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
]8 THE PHYSIOLOGICAL EVIDENCES
of the different circumstances in which he is placed, or
of the wants and necessities which these circumstances
may occasion. The moral disposition and intellectual
powers of a man are thus determined at his birth; and
the only effect of education is somewhat to modify them.
We say, somewhat to modify them, because the advocates
of this system maintain that some men have originally so
bad a disposition implanted in them, as to render nuga-
tory every effort to make them reputable members of
society by moral training or discipline.
The next step of the disciples of Gall is, to assert that
the mental faeulties are dependent for their exercise on
the organization of the brain. This assertion they en-
deavour to prove, by showing that both the moral dis-
position and intellectual powers depend on the brain's
developement. They say, that the moral sentiments
and mental powers are in ex.act proportion to its organ-
ization: when this is faulty, a man's character is corre-
spondingly affected; and it is impossible for a man to
resist the power which is thus exercised over his mental
constitution.
Granting the truth of this second position, it would
not justify the system of phrenology, unless its advocates
are able to make good a third assertion. This final
assertion is, that each faculty does not make use of,
or is not used by, (for we do not know which form of
expression is more appropriate to the system,) the whole
brain, but is confined in its exercise to one particular
organ. As a man sees by the eye and hears by the
ear, so he perceives by one organ and considers by
another.
5. This last proposition may be called the key-stone
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
FOB PHRENOLOGY. 19
of the whole system, and as 8Uch, the phrenologists ha..e
endeavoured to prove its truth by nrfous arguments.
They have appealed to the analogy of the other parts of
the animal economy, and endeavoured to show that, as
each secretion has its appropriate gland, so there is a
plurality of cerebral organs oonesponding to a plurality:
of mental faculties. They hue also referred to the
various degrees in which the intellectual powers are
developed, in diiferent indiYiduals, as confirmatory of
the truth of their hypothesis. They argue, that if the
brain were a simple organ of the mind, in whateTer in.
dividual one faculty existed in a state of energy, all the
others would be correspondingly deTeloped. For we
cannot conceive one substance to be both weak and
strong; and the brain, consequently, could not exhibit
one faculty in its perfection, and not display all the others
in an equally eminent degree.
6. They also endeavour to institute a comparison
between mental and bodily fatigue; and contend that,
as when a man is tired with riding, he does not on that
account experience any difficulty in walking; so when
one organ has been wearied by application to a particular
subject, he can, with facility and pleasure, turn himself
to another pursuit. If, they say, the whole brain were
employed in a single operation, additional fatigue, not
relaxation, would be produced by turning to a new
study.
The phrenologists make use of some other arguments
to establish the truth of this proposition, but those which
we have mentioned are chiefly relied on by the most
approved advocates of the system.
7. Now, in the first place, itis by no means so evident
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
20 THE PHYSIOLOGICAL EVIDENCES
as the advocates of phrenology would have us suppose,
that the brain is the sole seat of thought and sensation.
It may be a repository of stimulating power, necessary
to excite the different parts of the body to action; and
it may be the function of the nerves to convey this sti-
mulus to the various members of the system.
" This hypothesis receives strength from the structure
and arrangement of the nervous chords; for while they are
admirably fitted for discharging the office of conveying
a stimulus to the limbs, they cannot, without the highest
difficulty, be considered as the channels of distinct voli-
tions to particular muscles. We therefore attribute the
determination of motion immediately to a power distinct
from; and independent of, the visible structure :-that is
to say, the mind, present throughout the body, and act-
ing and feeling, wherever present, by its inherent faculty
in relation to matter•."
8. Leaving, however, this hypothesis, there ii; nothing
like direct proof that the presence of any distinct part of
the brain is essentially necessary to the carrying on of the
operations of the mind. " The truth is, there is not a
single part of the encephalon, which has not, in one case
or other, been impaired, destroyed, or found defec~ive,
without any apparent change in the sensitive, moral, or
intellectual faculties. Haller has given us a copious
collection of cases which bear upon this point ; and a
similar catalogue has been made by Dr. Ferriar, who, in
a paper in the fourth volume of the Manchester Trans-
actions, has selected many of Haller's cases, with consi-
derable additions from other authors. The evidence
• Physical Theory of another Life. See also, BaoWN's Lecluru on
the Phi~phg of the Human Mind. Leet. xix.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
FOR PHRENOLOGY. 21
afforded by this mass of facts, taken conjointly, is quite
sufficient to overturn the fundamental proposition. This
evidence is not impeached by the feeble attempts of Dr;
Spurzheim, to evade its force by a general and vague im-
putation of inaccuracy against the observers, or by having
recour8e to the principle of duplicity of each of the
organs; a principle of very dubious application in a·
subject of so much uncertainty as the physiology of the
brain. Poor, indeed, must be his resources, when we find
him betaking himself to the following argument in proof
that the brain is the organ of thought, namely, that every
one feels that he thinks by means of his brain. We doubt
much if any one has that feeling•."
9. With respect to the analogy which the phrenolo-
gists endeavour to establish between the various secretions
of the fluids of the body and the operations of thought;
it must be evident to all, that it is singularly loose and
unsatisfactory. The essentially different natures of mat-
ter and mind, must, for ever, be an effectual bar to its
having any weight in the determination of the controversy
And even supposing that this objection were overcome,
the only deduction which could be made from it is, that
the theory of phrenology is not to be rejected without
examination. It cannot possibly advance a step further
than this; but the advocates of the system we are now
considering, in some measure show the weakness of their
cause, by wishing to draw from this analogy, a positive
proof that phrenology is true. Even if all the analogies
drawn from the animal secretions were favourable, they
would amount to no inore than this: they would. merely
• Supplement to the Encgcloptedia Britannica, Seealso, AB11:acROMBrB
on the Intellectual Power•.
B 3
Digitized by Google
22 THE PHYSIOLOGICAL EVIDENCES
incline the philoeophical observer to inquire into the fact,
whether each of the organs of the brain were appropri-
ated to the use of a particular faculty of the mind, or the
whole brain were exercised in common by all the faculties.
They would not prove the first to be the case.
But in what light are we to regard the argument,
when we find, that some of the organs of the body dis-
charge offices equally diversified with those of the intel-
lect. The stomach digests very different kinds of food.
There is not one part of it appropriated to the assimila-
tion of animal substances, and another to that of vege-
tables. The same ear hears and distinguishes divers
kinds of sounds ; just as the same retina receives the
impresssion of different colours. May we not, therefore,
conclude, that the whole mass of the brain may serve as
the instrument by which the mind can perform any one
of its operations?
Concerning the proof attempted to be derived from
the fact, that different men exercise the seTeral iutellectual
powers with various degrees of energy, we shall merely
obeen·e; that the eyes of some men are unable to distin-
guish between different colours, while in other respects,
their vision is perfectly good. Are we, therefore, to
conclude, that one part of the eye is appropriated to the
distinguishing of colours, while it is the office of another
portion to perceive objects? If there is any truth in the
argument of the phrenologists, this ought to be the case,
or else the individuals who are thus circWl18tanced ought
to be blind. ·
10. This doctrine of the plurality of cerebral organs
•is also attempted to be supported by an analogy between
muscular and mental fatigue. When one set of muscles
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
FOR PHRENOLOGY. 2S
is wearied by continued exertion, we experience relief by
cralling another set into action; and in .a similar way, say
the phrenologists, when one organ has been too much
exercised, it may be recruited by turning the attention to
another subject. But this relief would also be obtained,
supposing the whole brain to be exercised on every occa-
sion. Mere change of employment would take away the
sense of fatigue. When the retina has become fatigued
by looking at one colour, it is restored to alertness when
another colour is presented to it. Why, then, may not
the same thing take place with respect to the brain? We
may, indeed, a priori expect that the action of this organ
is more probably like that of the optic nerve, than that of
the muscles, which are comparatively a very coarse sub-
stance.
It is likewise observable, that the phrenologists have
failed to prove that the more energetic action of any of
the organs depends upon its size. 'l'hey indeed assume
this; but may we not, on the other hand, argue that it is
just as likely to depend upon the fineness of the texture,
or delicacy of organization ? Small eyes have been said
to see with more strength, and to last longer than large
ones. And why may not this be the case with the brain ?
At all events it remains for the phrenologists to prove
that it is not.
11. Finally, it may be observed, concerning all the
arguments which are derived by the supporters of this
system from anatomy and physiology, that unprofessional
inquirers may justly have doubts concerning their sound-
ness, from the small number of eminent professors of
those sciences who have numbered themselves among the
supporters of phrenology. From defective information,
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
24 PHYSIOLOGICAL EVIDENCES.
unprofessional readers may be unable to answer the argu-
ments of the advocates of the system, but still they may
ask, Why, if these arguments are so stringent, have so
few of those who are best able to judge of their validity
been convinced by them ?
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
25
CHAPTER II.
ON THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY OF THE
HUMAN MIND.
12. Later phrenologists appeal from physiology to mental phenomena.
13. Wish their system to be made the basis of a national education.
14, 15, 16. The aseertion of the phrenologists, that the elder meta.
physicians have mistaken modes of operation for powers of mind,
considered. 17. Tbe phrenologists' enumeration of the mental
faculties. On the knowing facullie1. 18. Not important what
theory on this subject be adopted. 19, 20. Phrenologists have
omitted faculties for the perception of smell and taste. 21, 22.
Their errors concerning the way in which we acquire a knowledge
of distance, form, and size. 23. No particular faculty necesaary for
the cognition of time. 24. On the cognition of existences and
events. 26. On the reflecting faculties. On the animal propen-
aitiea and mOf'al 1entimenta. 26. Remarks on the phrenologists'
arrangement of the mental faculties. 27. Love of home not an
instinctive faculty. 28. No instinct of constructiveness. 29. No
instinctive impulse to conceal. 30. Impulse to possess, and instinct
of destructiveness resolvable into the desire of power. 31. On
resentment. 32. On curiosity. 33. On hope. 34. Self-love, not
instinctive. 36. The mistakes of phrenologists about moral powers,
most important. 36, 37. Butler's the0ry of morals, the true one--
enunciated. 38. Essential difference between his theory and that
· of the phrenologists.
12. THE phrenologists have felt themselves somewhat
pressed by the forlorn state of their science, to which we
have alluded in the last chapter; and, consequently, some
of its latest advocates have shifted their ground, and
appealed from anatomy and physiology to the phenomena
of mind. They do not rest the defence of their theory
upon those considerations, by which its discoverers endea-
voured to establish it, but appeal to every man's own
experience. They say that their enumeration of the
faculties of the human mind is so complete and satisfac-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
26 THE PHRENOLOGICAi, THEORY
tory, that every unprejudiced and educated man must
acknowledge its truth, on its being submitted to his
consideration.
13. While, moreover, these advocates of phrenology
betake themselves to another sort of evidence than its
first promulgators, they immensely increase its import-
ance. They maintain that while the older systems of
metaphysics have merely served for an exercise of inge-
nuity, or a display of subtlety in those who have culti-
vated them, this system is essentially practical. They
do not, therefore, bring it forward to be like other new
systems of philosophy, received or rejected by inquirers,
according as they are influenced by the evidence for its
truth ; but gravely announce it as the basis for a scheme
of national education. It has hitherto been thought, that
the philosophy of the human mind required so great a
power of abstraction in those who made any progress in
it, as to make it the last subject to which the attention of
youth was to be directed. In the first years of our
existence, the perceptive powers are strong, while the
reflective are comparatively weak. It is not, therefore,
to be expected that the generality of young people will
·· be able to give such a degree of attention to the opera-
tions of their minds, as shall enable them fully to estimate
the different degrees of evidence which are presented by
rival systems of pneumatology. They have, consequently,
not been encouraged to trouble themselves with them,
but rather to occupy their nnderstandings with such
inquiries as were more fitted to their present degree of
developement.
The phrenologists, however, proceed in a different
-method. They represent that the truth of their system
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OP THE HUMAN HIND.
is so evident as to fit it for the apprehension of young
cl1ildren; and, consequently, maintain that it is the duty
of the legislature to educate the youth of the country, at
the public expense, in the principles of this science.
We feel that we are making no unwarrantable demand,
when we ask, that before such a scheme be put into oper-
ation, the system of phrenology should be subjected to a
most searching examination. We are very far from say-
ing, that our acquirement& fit us for the right conducting
of such an inquiry; but we have, nevertheless, felt our-
selves compelled, by a sense of duty, to make some
remarks on- the subject. In doing so, we have no
favourite scheme of our own to substitute in the place
of phrenology; and shall, we therefore trust, be all the
more qualified to manage the investigation with fairness
and impartiality.
14. The objections which the advocates. of this new
theory have brought against the founders of .the older
systems, are certainly somewhat singular. "N6thing,"
says one .of them, "can form a more instructive proof of
the non-practical character of the differing and contra-
dictory analyses of the human mind, which metaphy-
sicians have severally propounded, than the failure of one
and all of them to systematise education. The grand
obstacle has been, that modes of mental action have, in
Tarious· ways, been mistaken for primitive powers of
mind; in other words, operations of mind, and not the
specific operating energies, have been observed•."
Now, it may well be asked, How can we possibly come
at the knowledge of the mental faculties, but by observ-
ing the modes of the mind's operations? It has been
• SIMPSON'S PhiloBophg of Educalion.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
28 THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
rightly maintained by the advocates of the immateriality
of the soul, that we know just as much of its essence, as
we do of the essence of matter. We know matter by
observing its qualities, and we become conscious of mind,
by reflecting on its states or susceptibilities. " If I am
asked, w·hat I mean by matter? I can only explain
myself by saying, it is that which is extended, figured,
coloured, moveable, hard or soft, rough or smooth, hot
or cold ;-that is, I can define it no other way than by
enumerating its sensible qualities. It is not matter or
body which I perceive by my senses; but only extension,
figure, colour, and certain other qualitiei:, which the
constitution of my nature leads me to refer to something
which is extended, figured, coloured. '!'he case is pre-
cisely similar with respect to mind. We are not imme-
diately conscious of its existence, but we are conscious of
sensation, thought, and Yolition; operations, which imply
the existence of something which feels, thinks, and
wills•." How, indeed, is it possible to arrive at a know.;
ledge of the powers of the mind, but by reflecting on its
operations? We only know of its existence, by being
conscious of them, as we know of the existence of matter,
by observing its qualities.
We cannot, therefore, think that they are the most
likely to give an exact analysis of the intellectual powers
and moral feelings, who ostentatiously discard the only
method by which we can possibly become acqainted with
them.
15. '!'here isalso another reason why it is much safer,
• Dr. Reid, as quoted by Dr. Stewart, in Philosophg of the Human
Mind. VoL i.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OJ!' THE HUMAN MIND. 29
in treating of the mind, to speak of modes of action, than
of operating energies. During the first years of our
existence, our thoughts and observations are much more
employed about the external world, than on the micro-
cosm within. From this cause, the objects around us
inToluntarily attract our attention, and it is only by a
strong mental effort, that we are arterwards able to with..
draw the mind from contemplating them, and fix it upon
its own states and affections. When, also, this process
is effeeted, we cannot pr~vent ourselves from being influ-
enced concerning the nature of mind, by the school in
which we have been educated. Although mind is esseq.
tially different from matter, we are yet insensibly led,
unless constantly on our guard, to ascribe to the former
the properties and qualities of the latter. This propen-
sity is much strengthened by the language we are obliged
to use, when speaking of the nature and operations of
mind.
All, or most of the words which express mental affec-
tions, have been primarily derived from the world of
matter, and continue to retain about them some traces of
their original source. The words "affection," "impres-
sion," "imagination," "reflection," "conception," and
many others, are included in this description.
Now, it will at once be conceded, by all who ha\'e any
just views of the proper mode of conducting investiga-
tions in mental philosophy, that this tendency to confound
the affections and powers of mind with the qualities of
matter, ought to be carefully guarded against. And
consequently, that mode of speaking of the mind which
is calculated to strengthen this propensity, is at once to
be rejected.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
30 THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
This effect may, with confidence, be ascribed to the
favourite nomencJature of the phrenologists. By speaking
of operating powere or energies, and rejecting the phrase,
modes of operation, and others kindred to it, they inseo.,..
sib1y lead their disciples to ascribe parts to mind. They
induce them to forget that it is single and indivisible,
and to imagine that it has separate and distinct faculties,
which are individually attached to the diffe~nt organs of
the brain. It is needless to say, that such a mode 0£
thinking is highly unphilosophicaJ. Whenever we speak
or think of the mind, we must remember that it is the
whole thinking principle which performs the various
actions, or is subject to the different emotions which are
ascribed to it.
When the eye is directed in a particular way, an object,
or accumulation of objects, impresses its image on the
retina, and the mind perceives, or, in other words, is thrown
into the state of perception. This object may suggest
another somewhat akin to it, and the mind is then em-
ployed in comparing them together; and thus, a second
and different state is induced. Again, this object may
be beautiful, and cause the mind to assume a third state,
by exciting that emotion which we feel in contemplating
such an existence.
In each of these cases we see, that it is the whole mind
which begins to exist in different states. One follows.
another in the same way as a consequent follows its ante-
cedent in the natural world. One state may be more
complex than another, and be capable of being analyzed
into a greater number of simple ideas; but they all
equally employ the entire mind.
Whatever objections, therefore, the phrenologists may
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OJ' THE HUMAN HIND. Sl
have to the ancient mode of treating of mental pheno-:
mena, we think that their peculiar nomenclature is liable
to much more serious charges. It keeps out of sight the
absolute indivisibility of mind, a.nd tends to foster the
propensity, which all young people have, to confound·the
states or affections of the thinking principle with the
qualities of matter.
16. The reason they put forth for adopting this phra-
seology is, that it is more likely to make the science of
mind available for purposes of education. There may;
however, be another motive, which it is not so convenient
for them to avow. By talking in this way, they, in some
measure, conceal the absurdity of their so-called science,
from careless observers. Were the truth kept steadily
before all men, that, whatever manner of speaking we·
may use for purposes of convenience, it is the whole
mind which thinks, feels, desires, hates, loves, remembers,
or compares, they would hesitate very much before they
adopted a system, according to which, the mind is con-
stantly dancing backwards and forwards, from one organ
to another. If ·the system of the phrenologists be true,
when a parent is caressing his child, his soul must be
residing in the back of his head ; if he begins to hope for
its future success, his mind advances to his crown ; when
again, he reasons about the means by which the child's
prO!lperity is to be advanced, the thinking principle comes
forward, and takes its place in the forehead.
The phrenologists, in some measure, blind people's eyes
to this absurd consequence of their system, by speaking
tixclusively of mental powers and energies; and this may
be one very cogent reason for their adopting this phrase-
ology. It at once assumes that they have fathomed the
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TH.ll; PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
whole mystery, and at the same time, spreads a veil
over the true state of the case. Nothing, therefore,
can be more prudent than their trying by all means to
enforce it.
17. We, however, do not feel ourselves bound to
follow their recommendation in the inquiry which we are
proceeding to institute into their e1mmeration of the
faculties of man. The only knowledge which we profess
to have of the mental energies or powers, is that which
we obtain by attending to the susceptibilities which,
consciousness informs us, our mind exhibits.
The phrenologists, on the other hand, dogmatically
enumerate certain faculties, which they maintain to be
original powers of the human mind, and challenge the
assent of every inquirer to the truth, propriety, and
entireness of their classification.
In proceeding to remark on these qualities, we beg
again to remind our readers, that it is not our object to
enunciate a theory of our own. We merely think, that
we shall be able to show that the scheme of the phreno-
logist is both defective and redundant. It does not
contain some qualities and active powers which clearly
belong to the mind, and it mentions others which a very
easy analysis will enable us to resolve into simpler ele-
ments. We wish it also to be borne in mind that, accord-
ing to the phrenologists themselves, this classification of
theirs is decisive of the question at issue. They declare,
that no education can be worthy of the name which has
not for its basis a correct knowledge of the constitution
of man ; and that the propriety of their own method con-
sists in its being founded upon the only correct theory of
human nature. If, therefore, this theory, on examina-
Digitized by Google
OF THE HUMAN MIND, 33
tion. turns out to be defective or unsound, the system of
instruction, which is thus intimately connected with it,
must share in its fortunes, and at once fall to the ground.
It is somewhat remarkable, that while the advocates
of phrenology boastfully maintain that it alone gives a
true account of the faculties of the mind, scarcely any
two of them are agreed in their enumeration of these
faculties. Gall says, there are thirty-three of them;
Mr. Combe tells us, there are thirty-five; while Mr.
Simpson increases the number to thirty-seven. It may,
therefore, with propriety be asked, Which is right ?
Some of the three must be mistaken, and they all claim
infallibility. Without pretending to decide amidst such
high pretensions, we shall make use of the list given by
Mr. Simpson, in his Philosophy of Education; and it is
as follows:-
INFERIOR FEELINGS.
A.NlllliL PROPBNSITIBS.
Love of life.
Instinct of food.
Instinct of sex.
Instinct of offspring.
Instinct of home.
Instinct of BOCiety.
Instinct of courage.
Instinct of destruction.
Impulse to conceal.
Impulse to possess.
Impulse to construct.
Self-love.
Desire of estimation.
Fear.
SUPERIOR FEELINGS.
Benevolence.
'Justice.
Veneration.
Hope.
Firmness.
MORAL SBNTIMBNTS.
Wonder.
Ideal perfection, Imagination.
Laughter at the ludicrous. -
Imitation.
Digitized by Google
34 THF. PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
INTELLECT. THE SENSES.
:KNOWIN& F..t.CULTill&
Cognition of existences.
Cognition of events.
Cognition of form.
Cognition of size.
Cognition of fOl'Ce.
Cegnition ef colour.
Cognition of arrangement.
Cognition of number.
Cognition of place.
Cognition of time.
Cognition of souad.
RllFLllCTING F ACULTIEll.
Compa.rison. Nece888.l'Y consequence.
Language.
ON THF. KNOWING .AND REFLECTING FACULTIES.
18. WE certainly do not see in what way a parti-
cular theory of those faculties, which the phrenologists
call knowing and re6ecting, can have much influence on
education. Whether a man's opinions on these subjects
be right or wrong, or whether he have thought about
them at all, does not, in our opinion, materially affect
his moral or intellectual character. Many individuals
have drawn right conclusions from given premises, with-
out paying attention to the process through which the
mind passed in performing the operation. Still more
have possessed the power of rightly determining on the
form or distance of external objects, wfthout at all being
aware of the means by which they arrived at the power
of doing so.
We shall not, therefore, occupy much space or time in
our observations on this branch of the subject ; although
we fancy, that we shall not take leave of it without showing
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HU.MAN KIND. 35
that the phrenologists have made it an occasion of dis.
playing several errors. .
The means by which the mind is affected by extemal
objects are the five senses, of touch, taste, smell, hearing,
and sight. To these Dr. Thomas Brown has added a
sixth, which he calls muscular feeling, and by which,
according to him, we acquire a knowledge of resistance*..
19. Now, it is worthy of notice, that while the phre-
nologists ascribe to the mind faculties, by which respec-
tively it gains a knowledge of sound, colour, and size;
they do not allow any faculty by which we perceive the
sensations of taste or smell. Here, then, there is obvi-
ously a deficiency in their enumeration; for, most cer-
tainly, the mind does exist in a peculiar state, after an
affection of the organs of smell or taste,_ as well as after
an affection of the eye. If the mind can only recognise
colour by means of a peculiar faculty, how comes it to
.be affected by taste or smell, without any such endow-
ment appropriated to these senses? When tbe organ of
taste comes in contact with a sapid body, a change or
affection is produced in the mind as truly and really as
when a ray of light strikes upon the retina. The sensa-
tion proceeding from this cause may produce great pain,
or great pleasure, and we can reason on its origin just
the same as oa that of any of our other sensations.
20. The same also may be said of the sense of smell.
It is conducive to important uses in the animal economy,
and a particular class of sensations is, without hesitation,
ascn"bed to it by e'lfery sane man.
Both these senses, moreover, are manifested in different
• It is somewhat remarkable, that Mr. Simpson lays claim to the
dillovery of this Uih --.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
36 THE PHJtENOLOGICAL THEORY
individuals, with different degrees of intensity. The
North American ln~ians have a singularly acute smelJ,
and their nostril is remarkably wide. Is there, then,
with them any organ of the brain correspondingly
developed?
If, again, the mind can perceive smell or taste without
a particular faculty, why may it not do the same with
respect to colour and sound? In this case, there must
be either omission or redundancy. For, whatever reason
can be given for the existence of a faculty by which we
perceive the sensation of colour, may be also given for our
having a particular power for the perception of smell or
taste. Here, then, we hold, that tbere is a fault or
inconsistency in the phrenologists' enumeration of the
mental faculties.
21. Again, when a ray of light falls upon the retina,
the mind begins to exist in a particular state, or, in other
words, it perceives colour. It does this, according to the .
phrenologists, by means of a knowing faculty; and they
also affirm, that by means of a similar instrumentality, it
acquires the ideas of figure, magnitude, or distance.
The knowledge of these qualities, however, does not
come to the mind in the same way as that of colour.
The sensation of colour is immediately from the eye; no
reasoning or other mental process is gone through in
order to acquire it; but it is not so with respect to our
knowledge of figure, magnitude, and distance. Since
the publication of Bishop Berkeley's "New Theory of
Vision," it has been universally taught by metaphysi-
cians, that the mind does not acquire these sensations
directly and immediately from the eye, but by associating
with vision the knowledge acquired from other sources.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUMAN MIND.
When we judge of the distance- or place of an object,
it is not by an immediate sensation directly conveyed to
the mind from the retina, but by a much more circuitous
process. In point of fact, we exercise the reflecting facul-
ties, we institute a comparison, we deduce the conclusion
by a process of reasoning.
For instance, one of the means by which we judge of
the distance of an object, is the relative brightness or
dimness of the visible figure. Supposing two figures to
appear to us of the same size, we compare their bright-
ness and distinctness, and in this way form a conclusion
as to thefr distance. When, accordingly, a painter wishes
to put into his picture a large and distant object, he
draws it small, and uses dim and faint colours. If he
inade it appear bright, we should suppose that it was
intended to represent a small figure in the foreground,
and not a large one in the background.
'Vhen, also, the rays of light, which are reflected from
a particular object, pass through an indistinct medium
in their progress to the eye, the perception of magnitude
becomes less accurate. In a fog, all things seem enlarged;
and it is only by exercising reflection, that we are able to
form a just idea of their magnitude and distance. We
also make use of other means in forming a judgment on
the distance of objects; but what has been already said,
concerning the brightness or dimness of the figure itself,
must be sufficient to show that we do not perceive dis-
tance in the same way as we recognise colour.
In the acquisition of the sensation of colour, the mind
is perfectly passive. The retina is affected in a certain
way by light falling upon it, and immediately the mind
begins to exist in a certain state, or to experience the
c
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THF. :PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
~nsation of colour. The phrenologists may say, if they
choose, that the mind does this by a particular faculty,
but the faculty is very different from that by which we
perceive distance, although they put them in the same
class.
The vulgar imagine, that we take cognizance of dis-
tance and colour in exactly the same way, and it seems
to be the intention of phrenologists, to propagate the
error in their projected national schools. This circum-
stance, however, does not make the theory correct,
Distance and colour are, indeed, very closely associated
in the mind of every grown person, and apparently the
eye is the sole source of the knowledge of each: But
this is a fallacy which it ought to be the object of a good
education to eradicate; and not to strengthen it, by a
pretended exact enumeration of mental faculties. '!'bis
last way of speaking and teaching can merely serve to
conceal a man's ignorance, and to make him imagine that
he knows the philosophy of mind when he really is
entirely ignorant of it.
Ask a man who has been taught in this way, how he
acquires the knowledge of colour, and he will tell you,
by a knowing faculty; ask him, how he comes by the
knowledge of distance, and he will give you the same
answer. But how different is the process in the two
cases! Yet phrenology, and the system of education
founded upon it, give no account whatever of this differ-
ence. Can phrenology, then, be said to be a correct
theory of mind? Is that to be considered the only true
system of metaphysics, which gives such inadequate,
incorrect, and confused accounts of mental phenomena?
22. Similar re1J1arks may be made on the perception
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OJ' THE :SUXAN llUl(l). 39
of form and size. For, although. these sensations,. as-well
as that of place, are ·constant!y associated witll vision~
and are occasioned the moment we open· our eyes, taey
ue not primarily obtained from sight~ We do not, 'in
fact, obtain our knowledge of them alfreetly aad i~
diately by the eye, but by a eolilrse of' reasoning which,
on account of the frequeru:y with which it is perf~
ean only be observed by a scrutiai8ing analysis;. and ia
wholly concealed.from those who do net make the modes
of the mind's opera.ti.On&, an- object oi coatemplauion.
Can that, however, be called a just and true philosophy,
which teaches its diseiplies:to s~ that these sensations
are obtained in the same way as that of colour, which is
doubtless- impressed on the mind of a clllhl, as soon as it
apens its eyes to the light,. while it is only by experience
that it comes to a knowledge of tiliem?
If our observations were to stop here, we contend, that
we have amply shown the insufficiency and unscientific
eharaeter, of tbe accmmt which the phrenologists give of
the states, snseeptibilities, and acts of the mindi.
23. To pass,.however, U» 0ther subjects : we are told
that we.have.a faculty by which we acquire· td\e cognitio11:
of time ; but what is time; if it is not the succession of
our ideas? Can we suppose a finite and. rea8onable being
to.exist without a·knowledge of it? Surely, no man can:
say, that we obtain oo.r knowledge of tiine in a manner
at. all similar to that in which we gain a knowledge of
colou~ It rather essentially belongs ta our nature;;
external circumstances do not impress it upon us; they
are but the occasions on which it is educed..
llow idle, then, is it to talk about our having a
faculty by which we obtain a knowledge of it! If we
c2
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
40 THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
have such a faculty, we ought also to have one, by
which we obtain a knowledge of our own existence.
This last, however, the phrenologists do not endow us
with; but they certainly have as much reason to give us
it, as that by which we recognise time. Their assertion,
that we have such a power, is wholly unsupported by
proof; and they might, with as much propriety, give us
a separate faculty for every idea which the ~ind is
capable of conceiving.
We have previously observed that, in a practical point
of view, it does not appear to us of much consequence,
what theory of the intellectual powers a man thinks to
be correct. A wrong one will not lead him into errors
in morality; and he perceives, reflects, deduces, remem-
bers with equal vigour, whether or no he has just views
of the way in which he performs these several mental
operations.
Our object, therefore, in the remarks we have made on
this part of the phrenologists' classification of the mental
faculties, has been simply to show its faultiness and im-
perfection. We do not wish to establish any theory of
our own; but merely to point out, that this vaunted
enumeration fails entirely in giving a satisfactory account
of the mental phenomena.
When we come to speak of the desires and active
powers, we shall follow a somewhat different plan; for
there we think, that very important errors are involved
in the phrenologists' theory, and shall, consequently,
endeavour to give what we believe to be a juster account
of the moral faculties.
24. Before, however, we leave the division on which
we a1·e now engaged, we wish to make an observation or
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 4<1
two on what the phrenologists call the cognition of exist-
tences, and cognition of events. These gentlemen tell us
that we have particular faculties, by which we severally
obtain a knowledge of form, size, and force, or resistance;
and they are also generous enough to give us, in addi-
tion to these, a power of knowing existences. Now,
really it is difficult to discover, in what way we can pos--
sibly gain a knowledge of external material existence,
but by the qualities above mentioned. If we define
matter, we can only do so by enumerating its qualities.
It is that which resists and is extended; and when we
know the form of any substance, we surely must have
knowledge of an existence. What, then, can possibly be
the employment of that faculty by which we take cogni-
zance of existences separate from their qualities? It
must certainly be superfluous. If we separate from any
· substance, extension, form, and resistance, what remains
of it ? If there be anything, it must be some quiddity
of the despised schoolmen. Let any man try what he
can make of a piece of wood, when he has disjoined it
from these qualities; and then he will be in a right
situation for forming a correct estimate of the phre-
nologists' classification of the mental faculties. If he
cannot form any idea of such a substance, it follows as
an inevitable consequence, t~at this cognition of exist-
ences is, at any rate, a superabundant and superfluous
power.
We can only, again, obtain knowledge of an event
by means of sight or hearing, and to each of these senses,
faculties have been already appropriated. If we see a
man writing, we acquire a knowledge of an event; but
is a separate faculty employed in gaining this informa-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
tion fre>m that w.bich is employed in perceiving the man ?
We see an indiiv~dual perfonning a certain action, and we
see the ·conseqLteDces of his employment; al'e we then to
understand, that it is owing to a particular faculty of the
mm~ tbat we conclude, that the marks upon the paper
are made by the man who is writing? They who think
&O, may believe .in the infallibility of ph1·enologists; but
other people will, we think, have but a very indifferent
opinion of their thoory.
26. With il'espect to what are called the reflecting
faculties, we ha\!t? .only t.o observe, that as we never heard
of any one who denied to man the power of comparing,
er drawing infeil'ences, so. we. do not think, that it is
any great discovery to .
find ololt, that he has the faculty
of doiag so.
ON THE ANIMAL PROFENSITIES AND MORAL
SENTIMENTS.
· 26. U!IDER the first denomination the phrenologists
classify all the proptmsities which, they say, man has in
common with the lower .animals; and arrange under the
second, all the .other emotions which they ascribe to
him.
We cflt'taiuly do not think this arrangement a happy
one; but, on the contrary, are of opinion that it is liable
to "Very serious objections. On this part of the subject,
however, we do not feel ourselves required to animad-
$'el't; our concern being with the enumeration itself, not
with the heads under which it is arranged. Having,
therefore, made some remarks on the.lower faculties, we
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUY:AN Y:UiTD.
shall proceed afterwards to a consideration of the moral
sentiments, in the classifying of which, we consider
that the phrenologists have committed most serious mis-
takes.
27. We shall first direct our attention to that faculty,
which they call the instinct of Home. It is perfectly
true, that man is endowed with an instinctive love of his
offspring, and with a desire of society. But w~ coRtend~
that these tw-0 propensities sufficiently account for his
attachment to home, without referring that emotion to
an independent faculty.
On the love of offspring, very important consequences
depend ; for if a parent were not endowed with such a
feeling, it is scarcely J>Ossible to conceive what induce-
ment he would have effeetually to protect, support, and
educate his children.
And as this feeling is equally requisite in the case of
man, and of the lower animals, so it exists in both, though
with various degrees of intensity. While the young
creature is unable to defend and provide for itself, it has
a never-failing .substitute in the affection towards it
which God has implanted in the breasts of those who
have given it birth. The lower animals, indeed, soon
come to an age at which they are able to provide for
themselves, and when that period arrives, the relation of
parent and offspring is instantly dissolved among them.
'l'he young animal is separated from that mother, who
for months has been so much attached to it, as to prefer
its safety to her own, and becomes to her as though the
relationship had never existed. They are wholly dis-
joined from each other, and if, by chance, they ever meet,
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
they do not recognise the intimate connexion which once
subsisted between them.
It is not so with man. Of all animals he is the longest
in arriving at that period of life when he can provide for
himself, and the affection of his parent towards him is of
corresponding duration. It arises in the breast of the
mother at the same time as the substance with which she
has been supplied for the support of her offspring, but
lasts during the whole or her child's existence. l\fan is
not, like the lower animals, furnished with a natural
covering to protect him from the inclemency of the
seasons, and with appropriate weapons to defend himself
from danger, or provide himself with food. These
things he must gain for himself by the exercise of reason
and ingenuity; and he can only do so effectually, when
he has been educated and trained to the task by others.
Hence the long duration of the human parents' affection ;
hence, also, the unceasing care and anxiety with which
nature teaches them to watch over the welfare of their
children. Man is, therefore, by the very circumstances
of his birth a social animal. He is born in society, and
in society he lives. Prom the first moment of his exist-
ence he is indebted to others, both for the means of sup-.
porting life and of making it agreeable. And no soone1·
is he able to give any signs whatever of the nature of his
feelings, than he shows a pleasure in the society of others.
A child stretches out its little arms, and gives every
token of satisfaction, when it sees another child. And
this feeling continues in man : it grows with his growth,
and strengthens with his strength. To society he is
indebted for his safety and his happiness ; and nature
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 4ll
has, accordingly, implanted in his breast a love for it,
which can only be extinguished when reason itself is
morbidly affected.
The gratification we derive from this source is only to
be obtained in its highest intensity, when we are in the
society of those in whose affection and faithfulness we
can place absolute reliance. We have then no chilling
emotions of restraint; we are not afraid to express the
immediate sensibilities of the heart ; we have no fear that
our joys or sorrpws should not be poured into a sympa-
thising bosom; and consequently experience to the full,
all the pleasures of social intercourse.
In no place, however, can the requisite qualifications
for this delightful satisfaction be found in such perfection
as at home. 'l'hat word always excites in every man of
true sensibility, the tenderest and. kindliest feelings. If
he is a husband and father, it reminds him of those in
whose happiness his "Own is most deeply involved, and
whose reliance upon him is more than an ample recom-
pense for every care and every anxiety. If he be exer-
cising the duties of a son, his emotions are of another
kind, but not the less pleasing; he thinks of his parents,
to whom he owes so much; he calls to mind his brothers,
with whom he has joined in the sports of childhood, and
speculated, with boyish simplicity, on the occupations
and pursuits of men. Is it, then, surprising that he should
be attached to this place? Need we create some addi-
tional instinct, in order to account for the delightful
emotions which the word Home excites in his breast? All
the attachment he can possibly feel for the place is fully
accounted for, by his affection for those who dwell within
its walls.
C3
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE PHJtENDLOGICAT. THEORY
It is, therefore, contrary to every principle of sound
philoSC>phy, to ascri:be this feeling to an original faculty.
The same sort of emotion is felt, when we are reminded
'1lf the dwelling-place of .an intimate friend~ nay, it is
es.cited when we think of the time at which we parted
from him, or tum our attention to the trifling article of
use or ornament which he gave us, at parting, as a
memorial of his friendship. Do the phrenologists, then,
giv.e us an original faculty for this feeling also, or do they
leave it unaccounted for, in the exclusive attention which
they have -directed to the other ?
In truth, the origin of both feelings is to be found in
the princq»e of suggestion or association, which exercises
ID ate~ive an infl11enee over every operation of the
human mind. Home excites in us :a recollection of the
pleasures.we have eajoyed there, as a penknife, which a
mend has .given us, reminds us of the gr.atification we
liave .clerived from his society. These pleasing feelings
ar.e, by a cammon illusion, transferred to the things them-
selves, and <do not by any means spring from an original
separate faculty in the mind.
28. As the instinct of home exists only in the imagin:-
atioo of phrenologists, so we shall Lind, that that of con-
structiv.eness has no betrer foundati.an. Mu builds
houses, aud makes himself clothes, because his realiOD
informs him, that this is the best way of defending him-
self from the ioclemency of the seasons. Other .
anfo::ials
have sufficient protection given them by nature, or are
endowed with instinct to ereet .themselves habitations.
These latteranimals show that their propeBSity is fostiac-
tive, by never improving on the.pattern which is followed
by all their race, and by the universality, as well as same-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE llUHAN KIND.
ness, of their operations. The sparrow was never known
which did not build, for the hatching of its young, a nest
exactly the same as that constructed by other sparrows,
and it does it as well on the first trial, as after repeated
efforts.
There have, however, been nations found in warm
climates, who did not build houses of any kind; 1md few
will deny, that all men do not erect their habitations
after the same pattern. These two circumstances suf-
ficiently point out the origin of man's custom of con-
structing buildings. They show, that it has sprung
from the efforts of his reason, to remedy the wants and
necessities of his circumstances. Deprive him of this,
his distinguishing quality, and his "dwelling would be
in dens of the earth, in clefts of the rocks, and in the
hollows of trees•."
So far is his being a " tool-making animal" from
aft'ording any proof of the contrary, that it is·a strong
confirmation of the truth of the assertion. It shows,
that he was neither endowed with an instinct to construct,
nor with natural instruments for that instinct to use;
but had bestowed upon him the gift of reason, which
more than supplied the place of both.
29. The impulse to conceal, is as gratuitous and
supemumerary as any of the others. At the first dawn
of reason, the child has no notion of concealing his senti-
ments. .AJ5 soon as he acquires the power of speech, he
freely employs it in communicating all his wishes, and
making known every sentiment with which his young
mind is affected. It is only when he has experienced the
• HBRSCHBL's DiscourstJ on thtJ Stud11 OJ Natural Philosoph11.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
48 TH.I!! PRRENOLOGIC,\l, THEORY
inconvenience which this practice brings upon him, that
he begins to keep some of his opinions to himself. He
perceives, that the free communication of his thoughts
sometimes excites the displeasure or anger of his atten·
dants or parents, and he therefore gradually acquires
the habit of keeping to himself such opinions as he
fancies will, if made known, produce unpleasant con-
sequences.
How, then, can it with propriety be said, that man
is endowed with an impulse to conceal? He does so,
because he perceives it to contribute to his ultimate ad-
vantage; but it is the very nature of instinctive feelings,
to act regardless of consequences; and all the connexion
they have with reason, is to be modified by its exercise.
This is not the case in the act of concealing ; and there-
fore we contend, that it does not arise from an instinctive
power.
30. The impulse to possess, and the instinct of de-
struction, are neither of them original faculties. They
are both branches of one, which exercises a great in-
fluence in the minds of all men, but which has no place
in the system of the phrenologists. We allude to the
desire of power.
This desire manifests itself at a very early age. The
child is pleased hy the noise made by another; but is
still more gratified on finding, that he has the p<>wer him-
self' of making his plaything sound. As he advances in
years, he shows the influence which the desire of power
has over him, hy his continued exertion and untiring
activity. The games of boyhood are but an unceas!ng
display of power. Whether the boy runs or leaps, dis-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 49
plays strength or exerts ingenuity, his satisfaction chiefly
arises from the gratification of his love of power.
When he comes to manhood, he is not satisfied with
exercising command over his own limbs, bnt desires also
to have other men under his dominion. Sometimes this
wish is gratified by the facility which rank or wealth
gives him, of compelling men to submit to his will by the
vulgar means of open force.
Men with high intellectual endowments, turn away
with disgust from a display of power which merely
reaches to the outward actions of those on whom it is
exercised, and leaves their will free and unfettered.
Such men try to control their fellows by means of
mental power. They aim at making the wills of others
yield to the superior force and energy of their own; and
thus using them as instruments for the furtherance of
their designs.
There are others, whose love of power can only be
gratified in a still higher and nobler way. They will not
even endeavour to make others comply with their wishes,
by the exertion of that sort of force which intellectual
superiority confers upon them. The only obedience with
which they can be satisfied, is that which arises from the
delightful emotions of gratitude and love. Their desire
of power can only be effectually gratified, when, by offices
of kindness, and proofs of regard, they have so entirely
gained the hearts of those with whom they have to do,
that a declaration of their will is eagerly looked for, in
order that it may be instantly complied with.
Thus various is this pervading desire in its manifests..
tions. It may frequently be detected in the breasts of
those who do not at all suspect that they are actuated
Digitized by Google
50 THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
by it; and, according to the dispositions with which it is
joined, it sometimes leads to the most heroic sacrifices for
the good of others, and sometimes to the perpetration of
the most outrageous acts of insolent tyranny.
"\Ve have said, that it is from this emotion that a
desire to posffeSS takes its origin; and we now proceed to
show how this process is effected. There are few indi-
viduals who have not had an opportunity of observing
the influence which the possession of money gives to a
man in society. The rich man can positively command
the services of many, and many· more are anxious to
comply with his wishes, in the hopes of reaping future
favours from him. Wealtb, also, supplies him with the
means of purchasing the conveniences, luxuries, and
elegances of life. While he is possessed of money, he is
conscious that he has the power of obtaining any of those
things on which men commonly set the highest value.
He, therefore, comes to love money for its own sake.
At first, it was desired as the means of procuring
pleasure, but in time, the affection is transferred to the
thing itself; and, in some cases, it exists with such
intensity, that the miser cannot part with a sixpence,
though he may actually be in want of the necessaries of
life.
In this w.ay, the love of power is transformed into
the desire to possess money; and in a similat· manner, it
is sometiwes changed into a desire of possessing other
things. At first, the book-collector values his choicest
volumes, merely as depositories, to which he can apply
for information when he wants it. He may not spend
much time in reading, but while he has a collection of
books he has the power of doing so whenever he chooses.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 61
Hence arises his desire of possessing them ; and similar
reasons impel a man to form collections of other articles,
to which his taste or vanity makes him attach import.,.
ance. In no case need we resort to an "impulse to
possess" for a solution of the phenomenon.
It is also from tbt' love of power, that men, especially
when young, sometimes exercise cruelty towar.ds the
lower,ama1als. "We need not," says Dugald Stewart,
" search in the malevolent dispositions of our nature, for
any other motive to the apparent acts of cruelty, which
he (the young man) sometimes exercises over the inferior
animals,-the sufferings of the animal, in such cases,
either entirely escaping bis notice, or being overlooked ia
that state of pleasurable triumph, which the wanton
abuse of power communicates to a weak and unreftecting
judgment*."
31. In addition to the acts of cruelty which man
commits from the simple love of power, he frequeody.,
also, perpetrates .deeds of violence from anger or resent-
ment. This feeling arises in bis breast when he con-
ceives that he has s11H'ered, ·or is .threatened with an
IDJury. It is a weapon ofdefence with which God has
supplied him for his protection. It springs up .on the
first symptoms of aggression, and c~ to the assistance
of the we.ak and unarmed, long before they could .avail
themselves of any extraneous protectioo.
The ol>,je.<:t for which this emotion was implanted in
the human breast, is shown by the uneasiness which its
presence .creates. It is not intended to have a permanent
dwelling-place, but merely to reside while its presence is
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
52 THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
imperatively demanded. It cannot, therefore, be called
an instinct of destructiyeness; for in a healthy mind, it
has but an occasional and momentary existence. As
soon as its office is discharged, it is dismissed from its
temporary abode as an unwelcome intruder; and never
has any influence over a man's conduct, except when
himself, or his companion, is threatened with attack.
32. While the phrenologists have been pleased to
ascribe to man original faculties which he does not
really possess, they have omitted others which exercise
the greatest influence over the formation of his opinions,
and the regulation of his conduct. It is very remarkable,
seeing it is wished to found a plan of national education
on the system, that among the unmentioned faculties
should be found the desire of knowledge, or principle of
curiosity. That man is endowed with such an emotion,
is proved by the earliest actions of a child; the acqui-
sition of knowledge forming one of the chief employ-
ments of the earliest part of our existence. Nothing can
be presented to a healthy and vigorous child, which he
does not eagerly handle and examine. His mind is ever
on the alert, and the principle of curiosity is hourly
enabling him to enlarge the sphere of his acquaintance
with external nature. The strength of this principle is
likewise shown, by the eagerness with which a boy listens
to a tale which interests him, and the uneasiness which
he manifests when the narrator stops his communication,
without giving the conclusion of the story.
In after life, the gratification of this desire forms one
great source of happiness to every human being; and on
the direction which it receives in education, very mate-
rially depends the future character of the pupil.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HU.MAN MIND. 53
The pleasure which results from its gratification, as
clearly points out the reason of its being implanted in us,
as the appetite for food is to be referred to the support
of the body, as the final cause of its existence. By
gratifying the desire for knowledge, a man obtains a
separate and peculiar pleasure, just as satisfying the appe--
tite for food diffuses a pleasing sensation throughout the
system. The one is given us for the strengthening and
sustentation of our bodies ; the other is bestowed upon
us for the enlarging and invigorating of our minds.
That plan of education must, therefore, be necessarily
inefficient and imperfect, which leaves out of consider-
ation, so important and influential a faculty as this.
Such a proceeding appears somewhat akin to the per-
formance of the tragedy of the prince of Denmark, with
the part of Hamlet omitted by particular desire.
33. Hope, according to the phrenologists, is a
separate moral sentiment, but it is, in reality, merely a
modification of our desireii. " Each of our desires," says
Dr. Thomas Brown, "may exist in different forms,
according to the degree of probability of the attainment
of the object. When there is little, if any probability,
it constitutes what is termed a mere wish ; when the
probability is stronger, it becomes what is called hope;
with still greater probability, expectation; and with a
probability that approaches certainty, confidence. This
variation of the form of the desire, according to the
degrees of probability, is, ofcourse, not confined to any
particular desire, but runs through all the desires which
have been enumerated, and every other desire of which
the mind is, or may be supposed to be, capable. Hope,
therefore, important as it is to our happiness, is not to
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
64 THE PHKENOLOGICAL THEORY
be considered as a distinct emotion, but merely as one
of the forms in which all our desires are capable of
existing*."
There are, therefore, educated persons, who do not
admit the propriety of the phrenologists' enumeration of
OUT faculties; for there are men of no mean reputation,
who, instead of reckoning hope a distinct emotion, make
it a modification of desire.
34. The phrenologists also inform us, that self-love
is an original prapensity. Its nature, however, is essen-
tially distinct from that of the principles we have been
hitherto considering. It is not instinctive, but takes its
rise from man's power of contemplating the objects of
his desires, and the way in which they act upon his
happiness.
" Bishop Butler," says Sir James Mackintosh,
"shows, admirably well, that unless there were principles
of action independent of self, there could be no pleasures
&Dd no happiness for self-love to watch over. A step
farther would have led him to perceive, that self-love is
altogether a secondary formation ; the result of the joint
operation of reason and habit upon the primary prin-
ciples. It could not have existed without pre-supposing
original appetites and organic gratifications. Had he
considered this part of the subject, he would have
strengthened his case, by showing that self-love is as
truly a derived principle, not only as any of the social
affections, but as any of the most confessedly acquired
passions. It would appear clear, that as self-love is not
divested of its self-regarding character, by considering it
• BROWN'S LBcturea, Lecture 66.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 55
as acquired, so the social affections do not lose any part
of their disinterest.ed character., if they be considered as
formed from simpler elements. Nothing would more
tend to root out the old prejudice, which treats a regard
to self as analogous to a self-evident principle, than the
proof., that self-love is itself formed from certain original
elements, and tihat a living being long exists before its
appearance*·"
Those, therefore, who venture to dispute the infalli-
bility ·of tlie enumeration which the phrenologists give
of the original faculties of man, have at least the comfort
of reB.eoting, that they have on their side the authority
of men who have hitherto had no mean reputation for
skill in pneumat-ology.
SQ far, also, from its being impossible ·for a sane
man to refuse assent to "their postulates as to human
powers, impulses, instincts, or faculties," we have seeu
that they are not at all calculated to bear a rigid
scrutiny, but turn out to be erroneous in divers im-
portant partieulJ,rs.
On this ground alone, therefore, we contend, that
.there is ample rea110n for·hesitation, before such a system
be .adopted ati the basis for a national edlication.
35. When, lwwcver, we proceed to examime the
moral .
principles <Of our nature, we shall find that, in this
.part of the subject, the errors of the phrenologists involve
much more serious consequences than in any other.
In pmsec111tii:ig this branch of our inquiry, we shall
follow a eomewhat different method from that which we
• Preliminary Diuertation to Encyclopadia Britannica.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
56 THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
have hitherto pursued. We shall endeavour to show
what is the true theory of morals, and then point out in
what respects it differs from that given by the phreno-
logists. And we think that we shall be able to make it
apparent, that the errors of their system are so great, as
to render any scheme of education founded upon it totally
unfit for any purpose of sound moral and religious
training. We profess ourselves to be disciples of Bishop
Butler in ethics, and are convinced, that he has placed
moral obligation on the only certain and immoveable
basis.
36. The discoveries which Butler• made in morals,
may be conveniently divided into two parts. By the
one, he introduced the distinction between the final object
of any desire, and the pleasure which invariably accom-
panies its gratification; and by the other, he vindicated
the supremacy of conscience. " Private happiness or
good," he says, "is all which self-love can make us
desire, or be concerned about; in having this, consists
its gratification. * • • * On the other hand, particular
affections tend towards particular external things : these
are their objects : having these is their end: in this con-
sists their gratification: no matter whether it be, upon
the whole, our interest or happiness. An action done
from the former of these principles is called an interested
action. An action proceeding from any of the latter,
has its denomination of passionate, ambitious, friendly,
revengeful, or any other, from the particular appetite or
affection from which it proceeds." • • • " Love of our
• See BVTLBR's Sermon. on Human Nature, and Dr. CHALMBBS's
Bridgewater Treatiae.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 57
neighbour," he again says, "has just the same respect
to, is no more distant from, self-love, than hatred of our
neighbour, or than love or hatred of anything else."
A man, therefore, according to Butler, does not do a
good action to his neighbour, for the sake of the pleasure
which will result to himself, but because there is a prin-
ciple or instinctive feeling implanted in him, which urges
him to benevolence. This distinctive feeling occupies
the same place, with respect to our performance of bene-
volent actions, as hunger does with reference to our
taking food. We eat because we are hungry, and the
consequence is, that our body is supported, and a certain
pleasurable sensation diffused throughout the entire
system. When, however, we come to reverse the inten-
tions of nature, and eat for the gratification of taste, we
very soon deprive ourselves of that pleasure which a
healthy man derives from the satisfying of his hunger;
and our bodies are not nourished by the superabundant
food.
In a similar way, if we benefit others from motives
of self-love, we lose the pleasure which is attached to the
performance of good actions. If we would dedve plea-
sure from the exercise of the natural inclination, pleasure
must not be the actuating motive of our conduct. The
pleasure attending the indulgence of any affection, is not
the object of that affection. The object is one thing,
the pleasure attending its attainment is another. If a
man is really to enjoy the pleasures which attend bene-
volence, self must not be in all his thoughts; his mind
must be given up to the person whom he is assisting.
If self does intrude, it destroys that gratification which
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
58 THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
he would otherwise derive from the exercise of his bene-
volent fueling.
E'ach affection has a specific object appropriated to
it, and a particular gratification resulting from it. Thus,
the love of fame is directed towards applause, hunger
towards food,. revenge towards the infliction of pain 011 a
hated inmvidual, ambition towards power; and there is
a certain gratification arising from its object being at-
tained by each of these affections.
a7. Is there, then, to be a general confusion. and
strife for mastery in eaeh man's mind, among all these
principles of action ? Is there to be a perpetual contest.
going on, till some,one vehement desire acquires strength
to subdue and tyrannise over the rest? Butler's system
supplies a power, in his second discovery, to allay this
commotion. He brings under our notice ctm8eiem:e,
which he shows to be a principle, claiming the super-
intendence and supremacy over all others. " That
principle," he says, "by which we survey, and either
approve or disapprove of our own hear4 temper, and
actions, is not only to be considered as what in its tum
is to have some influence; which may be said of every
passion, and of the lowest appetites; but likewise as
being superior: as from its very nature claiming supe-
riority over all others: insomuch that you cannot f~rm
a notion of this faculty, conscience, without taking in
judgment, direction, superintendency. This is a con-
stituent part of the idea, that is, of the faculty itself:
and, to preside over and govern, from the very economy
and constitution of man, belongs to it. Had it strength,
as it has right: had it power, as it has manifest autho-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
OF THE HUMAN .MIND~ 59
rity, it would absolutely govern the world."••• "This
faculty was placed within us to be our proper governor;
to direct and regulate all undue principles, passions, and
motives to action. This is its right and office: thus
sacred is its authority. And how often soever men
violate and rebelliously refuse to submit to i4 for sup-
posed interest which they cannot otherwise obtain, or for
the sake of passion which they cannot otherwise gratify ;
this makes no alteration as to the natural right and office
of conscience."
38. Here is a theory of human nature, altogether
diJFerent from the one presented to us by the phreno-
logists. For what principle iS there in their system,
which 8as the right and office to command all others?
The faculty which these gentlemen· choose to call con-
scientiousness, or justice, is of a totally different descrip-
tion. It pots in no claim to command; it has no right
of presiding over all others. lf, indeed, a m~n eonswts
his happiness, according to the phrenologists, he· will
allow the moral sentiments and intellect to have supre-
macy over all his other faculties : but, then, thi~ is a
matter of expediency on the individual's part,-the rooial
sentiments and intellect do not claim this high office as
a matter of right.
Butler, howe'\ler, makes conscience to have and
claim a power of superintending all the faculties and
principles--the highest as-well as the lowest. It is nCilt
joined in·command with other faculties, hut lays claim
to a supremacy over all. Its place in the moral system,
also, is not a matter of expediency, but of right. Ac-
eording to Butler, our obligation to obey the law of
conscience is its being the law of our nature.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
60 THE PHRENOLOGICAL THEORY
It must, we think, be evident, that the disciples of
either of these systems cannot consider that education
right, which is founded upon the other. The phreno-
logists assume, that human nature is so constituted, that
the mere pleasure of exercising the superior faculties will
give them supremacy over the lower, when a man is pro-
perly educated. Duty is excluded from their system;
and they assert, that sentimental gratification is sufficient
to enable a man to resist temptation, and keep his lower
faculties in subjection to the higher.
The others again declare, that such a barriet· will
always be found insufficient to restrain a man within the
limits of honesty and sobriety. They assert, that con-
science is placed within a man's breast by his Creator,
for the purpose of declaring to him what is His will:
that it is an internal monitor, ever _ready to vindicate its
right to command, and to denounce no less _a penalty
than God's displeasure on all who refuse to obey it.
They accordingly maintain, that no education is for
a moment to be trusted, as an instrument of moral good,
which does not direct its chief efforts to enlightening
man's conscience, and strengthening its power to enforce
obedience to its dictates.
This, they again say, can only effectually be done,
by making the Christian revelation the basis of instruc-
tion ; and teaching youth, that the Bible alone can
effectually enlighten the conscience, and enable it to
gain power sufficient to keep in subjection man's rebel-
lious passions and appetites.
Can it, then, be wondered at, that the advocates of
such a system feel themselves caUed upon to protest
against one which pursues quite a different method of
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
01'' THE HUMAN MIND. 61
instruction. If they did not do so, they might be
chargeable with insincerity or inconsistency; but surely,
it is unfair to hold them up as enemies to education,
because they wish that kind of tuition to be used,
which they believe to be alone able to make men wise
and good.
D
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
62
CHAPTER III.
ON THE DOCTRINE OF THE FALL OF MAN.
39. Fall of man, the first doctrine of Christianity attacked by phre-
nologists. 40. Mr. Combe's statements on this subject. 41. He
expects a new mode of interpreting the Bible to be discovered.
42. Two questions to be answered: (1.) By what arguments the
doctrine of the fall of man has been diaproved. (2.) What weight
the determinations of Scripture are to have on the subject. 43,
Answer to the latter question. 44. Assertions of the sacred writers,
concerning astronomy and geology, of comparatively little import-
ance. 45. They have been reconciled with modem discoveries.
46, 47. If not, the authority of the Bible on religion would not be
shaken. 48. The doctrine of the fall of man, of essential im-
portance. 49. A work which impugns this doctrine attacks the
Christian religion. 50, Geology and astronomy had never been
1he objects of men's contemplations as theologians. 51, The fall
<1f man, a religious doctrine. 52. A Christian justified in rejecting
the phrenologists' theory, because opposed to the doctrines of his
religion. 63. Inquiry into the arguments by which the theory is
supported. 54, Mr. Combe's statement of them. 55, 56. By the
fall of man, the power of conscience has been weakened. 67. Fur-
ther statements of .Mr. Combe: 58. Io them, he really gives up
the subject in dispute. 59. Organ and faculty, not synonymous
terms. 60. Man has power to resist the tendency which a parti-
cular organization of brain gives him. 61, 62. Impossible to show,
that, before the fall, the lower organs were not imperfectly deve-
loped. 63. Difficulties peculiar to the phrenological theory. 64,
The doctrine of the fall, not shaken.
39. THE first doctrine of ·the Christian religion,
against which the phrenologists especially direct their
attacks, is that of human depravity. They announce,
that phrenology absolutely proves the fall of man to be a
groundless dogma of theologians, and, consequently, that
education is alone to be approved of, which totally rejects
this false and mischievous doctrine.
·._
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OF HAN.
This annunciation is made more particularly in Mr.
George Combe's Treatise on the Constitution of Man;
and that it is in accordance with the doctrines of the
sect, is shown by the praise which the professors of the
science have been pleased to bestow on the work in which
it is contained.
We see, therefore, what a total change the phreno.:
logists aim at making, both in morals and religion ; and
we do not think it foreign to the work we have in hand,
to inquire into the reasons by which the doctrine of man's
fall (hitherto, almost universally received by professing
Christians) is sought to be overthrown.
40. Mr. Combe does not affect to deny, that the
system which he advocates is opposed to the received
interpretation of Scripture. He tells us, that, " In our
own country, two views of the constitution of the world
and of human nature have been long prevalent, differing
widely from each other, and which, if legitimately fol·
lowed out, would Jead to distinct practical results. The
one is, that the world, including both the physical and
moral departments, contains within itself the elements·of
improvement, which time will evolve and bring to
maturity ; it having been constituted by the Creator on
the principle·of a progressive system, like the acorn in
reference to the oak. • • • The other hypothesis is,
that the world was perfect at first, but fell into derange·
ment, continues in disorder, and does not contain within
itself the elements of its own rectification. • • • It
appears to me, (he tells us,) extremely difficult to recon.;.
cile these two systems."-p. 4.
In this last opinion we perfectly coincide; but we
D2
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
64 THE .DOCTRINE OF
cannot say, that we equally agree with him, as to which
system is to yield the preference to the other.
"Galileo," he again informs us, "was told from high
authority in the church, that his doctrine of the revo-
lution of the globe was obviously at variance with
Scripture, and that, therefore, it could not be true; but
as his opinions were founded on palpable facts, which
could be neither concealed nor denied, they necessarily
prevailed. If there had been a real opposition between.
Scripture and nature, the only result would have been,
a demonstration that Scripture, in this particular
instance, was erroneously interpreted ; because the
evidence of physical nature is imperishable and insuper-
able, and cannot give way to any authority whatever.
The same consequence will evidently happen in regard
to phrenology."-p. 89.
We are no longer ignorant, therefore, of what we
have to expect from the diffusion of this new philosophy;
our present mode of interpreting Scripture, is either to
be entirely altered, or the Bible itself must suffer in the
collision of the two principles. They cannot, according
to the professions of phrenologists themselves, both be
true; and we must be prepared to decide between the
conflicting systems. Of course, Mr. Combe has not the
least doubt which must ultimately prevail; but the
reason he gives, why the present method of interpreting
the Bible is wrong, is certainly somewhat singular.
" The period," he says, "from the revival of letters to
the present day, has been the age of scholastic learning,
as contra-distinguished from that of philosophy and
science. Christianity stands before us, therefore, at
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OP MAN.
present, as interpreted by men who knew extremely
little of the science of either external nature, or the
human mind."--p. 90.
41. We must confess, that before the publication
of this new method of arriving at truth, we, with some
others, had been of opinion, that the best way of getting
at an author's meaning, was, by proceeding according to
the rules of philology and criticism. It now, however,
appears, that we have been altogether mistaken. Bentley
and Poraon, Michaelis and Schleusner, are no longer to
be followed as guides, in arriving at the knowlooge ot
obsolete languages. A new plan baa been discovered.
The Scotch, who, at one time, used to be looked upon
by their southern brethren, as somewhat deficient in
this branch of knowledge, have di8COvered a method, by
which they are enabled to· do without it. They (or at
least those of them who are phrenologists) can now find
out an author's meaning, without the school-boy assist-
ances of grammars and lexicons. These might be of
lltl'Vice in the "age of scholastic learning, when men
knew extremely little of the science of external nature,
or the human mind;" but now, when the more advanced ·
in the march of intellect have got even to the heights of
phrenology, they are to be thrown asideas useless incum-
brances and heavy baggage.
42. Before, however, old fashioned people resign
themselves to the guidance of these new lights, they may
be allowed to ask, by what arguments the ancient and
received doctrine of the fall of man has been disproved;
and how much weight the declarations of the Bible are
really to have in the determination of the question.
We shall endeavour to answer the last query first.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
66 THE DOCTRINE OF
43. Mr. Combe decides the subject in dispute in a
very summary way. He gives us to understand, that
as divines have found out a method of reconciling the
declarations of Scripture with the modem discoveries in
astronomy and geology, although they were, at one time,
supposed to be hostile to each other; so they must bestir
themselves to discover a way, by which the Bible may
be twisted into accordance with the opinions of these new
philosophers. If they do not, the Scriptures must be
given up as an inspired authority in matters relating to
the conduct of men in this world; whatever may be their
weight with respect to another.
And he backs these somewhat bold and confident
opinions, by the authorities of Archbishop Whateley,
and Professor Sedgwick; for, be it observed, that not-
withstanding the boasted devotion of phrenologists to
reason and pure science, they are not at all averse from
appealing to the argumentum ad verecundiam, when
doing so, suits their purpose.
44. The subjects, however, on which these two
divines have given their opinions, are very different from
that on which Mr. Combe is writing. It was not
intended, in the Bible, to instruct men in astronomy and
geology; the mention of these sciences is merely inci-
dental to its main design. If, therefore, its declarations
concerning them could not have been reconciled with
modern discoveries, its authority in matters of religion
would not, in our estimation, have been in the least
shaken.
45. It has, indeed, long ago been shown, that there
is no irreconcilable difference between the statements of
modern astronomers, and the Scripture accounts of the
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OF MAN. 67
phenomena of the heavens. And Professor Buckland
has, in his Bridgewater Treatise, clearly demonstrated,
that the Mosaic account of the creation does not assert
that the earth was first made when man was placed on
it. On these subjects, therefore, the most fastidious
friends of revealed religion need feel no alarm what-
ever. The Bib]e has passed through the ordeal with
safety; and the truth of its statements on either of these
sciences has not been at all affected.
Still, however, the process of reconciliation appears
to us comparatively a matter of indifference. Had the
authors of the books of the Bible shown by their narr~
tives, that they were not men of science in the modern
acceptation of the term, their authority, as inspired
teachers of religion, would not, in our opinion, have been
at all diminished. Their knowledge of man's re1ation to
God, and his consequent duties, is not at all involved in
the question; but would have remained as. unimpeach-
able, if they had been convicted of ignorance on these
extraneous matters, as it is now, when they have been
proved to have made no wrong statements concerning
them.
46. Had it, indeed, been otherwise, scoffers might
have availed themselves of the discovery, and the faith
of some weak believers might have been shaken. And,
therefore, we are rejoiced, that the propriety of the
declarations of the inspired writers, on subjects of
natural philosophy, has been fully maintained and
defended. If, however, Professor Buckland had failed
in his well-intentioned effort, our faith would have been
as firm as it is after his success.
If Joshua had believed that the" sun stood still, and
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
68 THE DOCTRINE OF
the moon stayed" absolutely, and not relatively, "until
the people had avenged themselves on their enemies," we
do not see, that bis credit would have been at all injured
as an inspired prophet of God. His not knowing astro-
nomy would not have prevented him from being a truth.:
ful teacher of the people in righteousness. He was not
commissioned to instruct mankind in the motions of the
heavenly bodies, but in the ways of God; to exhort
them to fear the Lord, and serve him in sincerity ·and
truth: and this latter office, he could have perfectly and
efficiently performed, although he had been wholly
ignorant of astronomy.
47. The object of Moses, again, in writing the first
chapter of Genesis, was to make known to mankind, the
great and all important truth, that in the beginning God
created the heaven and the earth. :qe wished to pro-
claim, that this material universe is not eternal or self-
existent; but that it had a beginning, and that begin-
ning was imparted to it by an omniscient and omnipotent
Creator. To this Creator alone, theref~, was the fealty
of man due. He was neither to worship the elements,
nor the stars of heaven ; and if he gave that service to
the creature, which he rightfully owed to the Creator,
he would sin, and render himself liable to the wrath of
Almighty God.
Surely, it will not be denied by any one, that this
truth is of sufficient importance to justify a prophefs
being inspired to teach it.
But in order that Moses might enunciate it rightly
and justly, it was not necessary for him to be instructed
in the various processes through which the earth passed,
before it was brought into its present condition. Moses
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OF MAN. 69
taught man that God created the world, and left it to
human ingenuity to find out the various adaptations, by
which the wisdom and goodness of the Creator are so
wonderfully shown.
New proofs of these attributes are being daily drawn
from the teeming womb of creation ; but it is no in-
fringement on the inspiration of Moses, that he was not
acquainted with them. They are but collateral and
incidental to his main design ; and, therefore, we think
that no anxiety need have been felt about the effect
which the discoveries of geologists might have on the
truth of the Mosaic narrative.
48. The fall of man, however, is a subject of quite
a different kind, and is to be viewed in quite a different
light. It is not mentioned as a subject incidental to the
inain design of the sacred volume, but itself forms the
foundation, on which the whole superstructure of revela-
tion rests. It is detailed to us. in the opening of the
Bible, as the source of death and all our woe, and after-
wards, the whole of the book of Scripture is but a con-
tinuous evolving of a scheme, conceived in the depths of
the wisdom of God, for counteracting its deleterious con-
sequences; till the object is at length accomplished by
the sacrifice of Christ.
49. When, therefore, a work is ushered forth, the
avowed intention of which is, to show that this doctrine
is founded in a mistaken view of human nature, it must
be regarded by every faithful Christian with very dif-
ferent feelings from those treatises which, as. it were,
incidentally glance at some doubtful assertion in the
sacred volume. Archbishop Wbateley, to whom Mr.
Combe appeals for a confirmation of his opinions, says,
D3
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
70 THE DOCTRINE OF
" '!'hat if it could be demonstrated, that mankind could
not possibly have descended from a single pair, such a
conclusion, no doubt, would go far to shake the founda-
tion of our religion•." The only way, however, on
Archbishop Whateley's principles, in which this con-
clusion would have such a tendency, would be by its
disproving the Scriptural statement concerning the fall.
For obviously, if mankind were not descended from a
common ancestor, the sin of Adam could not affect the
whole human race.
But one of the avowed objects of Mr. Combe and
other phrenologists is, to disprove what they are pleased
to call the " theological dogma of the fall of man." With
but a very slender apparatus of proof, they coolly desire
all men to yield up their previous convictions, and to
believe, that they have discovered a system which shall
entirely supersede them.
Mr. Combe's work, therefore, comes before us with
very different pretensions from those works on astronomy
and geology to which he affects to compare it. Even if
these works could not be reconciled with the views of the
sacred writers, man's hopes need not be shaken, nor his
fears for the authority of revelation excited ; and they
have been fully and fairly shown not to be at variance
with the declarations of the Bible. But the scheme,
which we are now considering, strikes at the very foun-
dation of the Christian's hopes, and, if it could be shown
to be true, would totally annihilate every claim of the
Bible to be received as the Word of God.
50. Further, the things to which astronomy and
geology refer, had never formed the subject of men's
• Lectures on Political Economy.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OF :MAN. 71
contemplations as theologians. They had received their
notions concerning them from other and independent
sources ; and then imagined, that these views were con-
:firmed by what was said in the Bible. They did not, in
the :first place, go to the Scriptures to learn astronomy
and geology (or whatever they knew about them) but
·formed systems of their own, and then tried to confirm
·them by what they could draw from the incidental asser-
.tions of the sacred writers. And by length of time,
these two sources of intelligence had become so·mixed
together in men's minds, that they confounded the one
with the other. They fancied that their knowledge had
in the nrst place been derived from the declarations oi
Moses, whereas, in truth, Moses had been originally·
appealed to, in confirmation of their own views. Hence,.
when the better-directed investigations of modem astro-
nomers found out that the old science was faulty, its
adherents, rather than be at the trouble of learning new
systems, appealed to the Bible as confirmatory of the one
to which they were attached.
In point of fact, before the discoveries of Galileo,
Kepler, and Newton, men could not be said to know
anything about astronomy, but to have confused and
crude notions on the subject, which they imagined were
in harmony with the Scripture narrative. From lazi-
ness, and unwillingness to be at the trouble of learning,
they on the first publication of the new system called it
heretical; but the Bible, on being honestly consulted,
turned out to harmonize as well with the Newtonian
theory as any other.
And the same thing took place with the still more
modern science of geology. On accurate examination,
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
72 THE DOCTB.INE OF
it was found, that the Mosaic narrative was not opposed
to the new discoveries; but that these were only hostile
to the narrow views of certain individuals, who fancied
that their own opinions were in accordance with the
Scripture system. ·
The truth of this account has been fully proved by
Professor Pusey, in his note to Buckland's Bridgewater
Treatise, where he shows, that some of the fathers sup-
posed the two first verses of Genesis to CODtain an account
of a prior and distinct act of creation, from that which
is detailed in the succeeding part of the opening chapter
-thus demonstrating, that the views of geol~ts on
the subject, are not an hypothesis framed to serve a
purpose, but absolutely founded on fact. When these
philosophers state that a long time intervened between
the act of creation related in these two verses, and the
conversion of the earth into its present form, afterwards
narrated ;-they do not make a supposition which has
never been heard of before, but bring to light an opinion,
which has been serieusly entertained by many of the
Fathers of the Church.
51. Nothing of this sort, however, can be said shout
the phrenologist's theory of human nature. The fall of
man is a circumstance which would never have entered
into any person's head, had it not been revealed. What-
ever views may at different times have prevailed on this
subject, they have all been primarily derived from
Scripture. 'l'he doctrine is too little flattering to man's
pride, ever to have originated from his own invention.
His efforts, indeed, have been too often directed to
explain it away; and its supporters have uniformly
entrenched themselves behind the bulwark of Scripture
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OP' HAN. 73
declarations. They have shown that the Mosaic narrative
of the event fully accounts for the phenomena of human
nature, and- thus vindicated its reasonableness; but at
the same time have declared, that the fact was not dis-
covered by man, but revealed by God.
'l'he doctrine itself, also, is not a mere speculative
assertion, thrown oat by the sacred "1iters to be either
believed or rejected at the pleasure of the reader, with no
ulterior consequences dependent upon his treatment of
it. It must be embraced by every one who receives the
Bible as the Word of God; for, to counteract its effects
is the avowed object of revelation. If, consequently, it
be not believed, the whole scheme of Christianity is vir-
tually given up. It becomes an unmeaning and pur-
poseless apparatus; and we can conceive no valid reason,
why the edifice should have been constructed by the
· apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus being the chief
corner-etooe.
Whoner, moreorer, has faith in the doctrine of the
atonement, and through it hopes to attain to happiness
here, and glory hereafter, receives Jesus as his Saviour
from the eft'ecta of the fall. He looks to the sacrifice of
Christ for forgiveness -of his sins; and hopes, through
the aid of the Holy Spirit, to mortify the deeds of the
body, and to be made meet to be a partaker of the hea-
venly inheritance.
52. We do not, therefore, conceive that such a man
would act at all inconsistently with the rules of right
reason, if, when he heard of the scheme propounded by
the phrenologists, he should say, that it was so utterly
o:mtrary to what in his heart he believed to be the Word
of God, that he did not feel himeelf at liberty at all to
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
74 THE DOCTRINE OF
attend to it. It was, he might justly maintain, opposed
to the specific declarations of the Bible, and the credi-
bility of that book was founded on evidence, which was
scarcely inferior in strength to mathematical demonstra-
tion. Both systems could not be true, and for his part,
he was determined to abide by that which, in his own
case, he had found to be so well fitted to the wants of
human nature.
53. For ourselves, however, we are ready to descend
from this high ground, and to meet the phrenologists on
the arena they have chosen for themselves. We shall
proceed to inquire into the strength of the arguments by
which Mr. Combe endeavours to establish this new theory
of human nature.
54. To those who think that the moral faculties of
mari are not now in the situation in which they were
when he was created, Mr. Combe says: " Man did not
make the cerebral organs which he ·now posses_
ses, nor
bestow on them their functions. Both organs and func-
tions are as assuredly the direct gifts of the Creator, as
is the eye, the ear, or the stomach. The science of
optics is never questioned by any person that understands
it, on the ground that the eye (on the structure, proper-
ties, and relations of which it depends,) is not now in
the condition in which it was created. Yet to do this
would be ~ reasonable, as to deny the truth and autho-
rity of a philosophy of mind, derived from correct obser-
vation on the constitution and relation of the mental
faculties and organs. It is presumable that the Divine
power, wisdom, and goodness, which instituted the eye,
and adapted its structure to light, presided also over the
institution and adaptations of the internal organs of the
Digitized by Google
THE FALL OF KAY, 75
mind. If a theologian were to maintain that these
organs, or several of them, were bestowed on man in
consequence of sin, or from any other cause, philosophers
would remain silent to such a proposition ; because they
do not inquire into the motives which induced the
Creator to confer on man the organs and faculties which
he possesses. They limit their investigations to objects
that exist, and their relations and uses. But on the
ground that organs and faculties have been given by the
Creator, they are entitled to maintain, that a philosophy
of morals, correctly deduced from their constitution,
must accord with all correct interpretations of Scripture,
otherwise religion can have no substantial foundation."
-p.7.
55. We have given this passage in the author's own
words, and certainly, its reasoning forms but a slender
~paratus by which to overthrow the present mode of
interpreting the Bible.
In proceeding to examine it more particularly, we
wish to direct the reader's attention to what has been
before said concerning the relation which subsists between
conscience, and the other active powers of our nature.
We then saw, that the objects of our desires are
external, while they themselves form the subject on
which the conscience is exercised. By the original con-
stitution of man, the conscience had the power, as well
as the right, to govern and pass judgment on all his
other principles, desires, and propensities. It not only
laid claim to the supremacy and controul over all the
other faculties of our nature, but was invested with
power to enforce that claim.
Now, in consequence of Adam's fall, it bas lost this
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
•
76 THE DOCTIUNE Olf
power; and we can only discover what was its original
constitution, by its, from time to time, making known
its alienated rights. It canno.t. enforce them, but it still
can show, that it once had them; and that man would
then only comply with the requirements of his nature, if
he conceded to it the regulation and controul of his entire
system. Thus, in a civil state, the various institutions
of society, and the habits of the people, may demonstrate
to the philosophical observer, that the government of the
country had once been :monarchical, although anarchy
may have superseded it. Every man may be doing
what is right in his own eyes, on account of the weak.Del&
of the executive power, but still there may be divers
intimations, that at one time a strong and just govern-
ment presided over the destinies of the people. The
rightful heir to the monarchy may be a JMX>l" and power.
less individual, but still ancient customs may so far pt.a-
vail, that when those who are superior in circumstances
to himself come into his presence, they bow the knee and
veil the face.
And thus it is in the moral constitution of man: con..
science is no longer able to assert the supremacy which
it once had; but still, divers phenomena point out to
the accurate observer, that at some remote period she
had power to vindicate her now almost forgotten rights.
Anarchy may prevail in a man's breast; revengeful
passion may reign; lust may have dominion ;-but still
periods do occur at which their emotions are compelled
to acknowledge, that theirs is an usurped, not a rightful
supremacy.
56. This state of man's moral nature, may be also
illustrated by the phenomena which geology presents to
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OF M.A>l'. 77
our observation. When the geologist takes a wide and
general survey of the earth, and the strata which compose
its crust, he is led to conclude, that originally these have
been all horizontal, or, more properly speaking, wrapped,
one over the other, like the successive coats of an onion.
When, however, he directs his atention to detached
portions of the globe, he finds the strata inclined to each
other at various angles, and some of them, so far from
being horizontal, standing in an almost vertical position.
What, then, is the conclusion which he draws from these
phenomena? Does he deduce from them that his former
opinion was mistaken, and that they never have been
disposed over each other in successive layers? He is not
led to do so; but forms a theory by which he can easily
account for both, seemingly contradictory, appearances.
He concludes that the surface of the earth has been
subjected to divers catastrophes and convulsions, which
have in various places changed the inclination of its
strata. When, for instance, in examining a mountain
range, he finds the strata at its base not horizontal, but
·leaning against its sides, he does not think that they have
been originally formed so, but that, by the upheaving of
the hill, they have been diverted from their primitive
position. Originally they have been horizontal, but the
mountain pushing through them, at its ribing, has
altered their direction, and made them be conformable
to its acclivity.
And thus it is in the moral system of man. Ori-
ginally, he was created upright. His conscience, the
judgments of which were in exact accordance with the
will of his Creator, had supremacy over all the other
principles of his nature. His affections harmonized with
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THI<! DOCTRINE OF
its dictates; and his will inclined him to obey all its
commands.
' This state of things, however, no longer continues.
We now only can make out by diligent observation, that
this has been the original constitution of man's nature;
but that a subsequent aberration has taken place. A
violent convulsion has occurred in the system ; and those
principles, feelings, and propensities, which acted in
harmonious subserviency to a right-judging and enlight-
ened conscience, present to our view a lamentable scene
of uproar and confusion.
It is to do away with the eff'ects of this moral cata-
strophe, that Christianity has been revealed ; and the
Godlike work it performs by that " system of spiritual
infiuences, of internal operations on the soul, and of
repentant preparation for another world," which is
viewed by the phrenologists with so much contempt
and abhorrence.
'!'he only objection which Mr. Combe, in the passage
we have quoted from his work, makes to this view of the
moral constitution of man, is, that it is contrary to the
observations which he and other phrenologists have made
on the organs of the brain.
We shall now pass on to the consideration of some
other argument, or rather statements, by which he
endeavours to overthrow what he is pleased to call the
" theological dogma of the fall of man.,,
57. After enumerating the faculties which the
phrenologists denominate the lower propensities, he
makes the following triumphant conclusion :-" Theo-
logians who enforce the corruption of human nature,
would do well to consider whether man, as.originally
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OF llAN. 79
constituted, possessed the organs of these propensities or
not. If he did possess them, it will be incumbent upon
them to show the objects of them in a world where there
was no sorrow, sin, death, or danger. If these organs
were bestowed only after tne fall, the question will
remain to be solved, Whether man with new organs
added to his brain, and new propensities to his mind,
continued the same being as when these did not fonn
part of his constitution? Or, finally, they may consider
whether the existence of these organs, and of an external
world adapted to them, does not prove that man, as he
now exists, is actually the same being as when he was
created, and that his corruption consists ·in bis tendency
to abuse his faculties, and not to any inherent vicious-
ness attributable to his nature itself."-p. 21.
Now this is certainly the most extraordinary chal-
lenge we ever heard or read of.
58. While Mr. Combe is loudly proclaiming to
theologians the dilemma in which he has placed them,
he appears to us to yield the very point in dispute. At
the very time when he is declaring what a complete
barrier he ha1 erected against their opinions, he opens a
channel by which the waters of t1·uth may find entrance
and sweep away his fantastic errors. When he says,
"that the corruption of man's nature consists in his ten-
dency to abuse his faculties," what does he but give up
the doctrine that man's moral constitution depends upon
his physical organization ? He has been teaching, that
the disposition of man is good or bad according to the
relative size of the organs of the brain. The main
object of his work is to inculcate the phrenological dogma,
that, if the organs of the animal propensities greatly
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
80 THE DOCTBINE OF
preponderate over those of the moral sentiments and intel-
lect, it is impossible but that the possessor of them must
be a bad and wicked man. In the passage before us,
however, he admits, that the corruption of man's nature
consists in bis tendency to abuse his faculties ; and in so
doing, we maintain, that he essentially yields the point
in dispute between himself, and those who receive the
Scriptural account of man's fall.
For, what is it that theologians say upon this sub-
ject? They declare that man's nature is sinful, that is,
that he is naturally more inclined to that which is evil,
that to that which is good ; that his will is perverted,
and can only be restored to its primitive uprightness by
extraneous and foreign influences.
Mr. Combe admits that there is a tendency in man
to abuse his faculties; and yet, he says, " that man him-
self can overcome this tendency;" or, in other words,
that man can will one thing, and yet will its direct
opposite. The tendency Mr. Combe speaks of, must
be that of the will ; but will is power ; and how power
can be made to oppose itself, we leave to phrenologists
to explain.
59. In the passage we have quoted, Mr. Combe
uses faculty and organ as synonymous terms; and we
·suppose, by this, he means, that there is no organ with-
out its corresponding faculty, and no faculty without its
corresponding organ.
But will this mode of speaking bear a strict analysis?
Unless Mr. Combe means to assert that the mind is
material, he must admit that there is an essential dif-
ference between these two terms. The organs, we take
for granted, are indicated by particular corresponding
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL OF MAN. 81
protuberances in the skull ; but there are not parts
of the immaterial thinking principle corresponding to
these separate organs, or protuberances by which they
are indicated. It is the whole mind that thinks, that
Judges, that compares, that remembers, that perceives; ·
The mind is essentially and absolutely simple and in-.
divisible. The organs of the brain, therefore, can but
be the instruments and means by which it works.
Granting that they are indispensable to it for the per-
formance of its several functions, it by no means follows,
that it has not the power of abstaining from the me of
them. If an individual has some organs more largely
developed than others, there may be a probability oC the
man's character being formed accordingly; but still his
mind has the power of resisting this tendency; and,
if other circumstances are favourable, no doubt it often
does resist them. It may be true, that there cannot be
a great or high character whose frontal organs are not
strongly developed; but many a man, nevertheless, may
have a lofty and ample forehead who is not distinguished
for any good quality. It may be that a man
Is one of giant structure, who could dance
Equipped from head to foot in iron mail ;
and yet never have harness on his back ; and in a similar
way, a man's brain may afford him the capability of being
a poet or philosopher, and yet be neither one nor the
other. It is thus we may conceive that Gray says:
Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest,
Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood.
· 60. A man's brain, even on the principle oC the
phrenologists, may afford him all the potentialities of·
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
82 THE DOCTRINE OF
good or evil; and yet he may refuse to avail himself of
the one, or resolutely resist the other.
And here, we say, are theeffects of the fall developed.
Man's will has been perverted to evil; and it requires all
the restraints and inducements which religion can supply,
to keep him in the right way.
What we would ask of the phrenologists is, Whence
did this tendency of man to abuse his faculties arise?
Was it implanted in him at his creation, or did it spring
up afterwards? Is it not much more reconcilable with
every notion we can form of the attributes of God, to
suppose that it was superinduced after his creation by
man's own act? The phrenologists cannot prove that
this evil tendency was necessarily inherent in the first
man's physical organization. How, then, have his pos-
terity come by it? After all they can say, they cannot
show that the Scriptural account is impossible, or even
improbable.
On the contrary, it bears every mark of truth about
it. It fully accounts for all the phenomena we observe,
and at the same time presents us with the only efficient
remedy of the evils of our moral system.
61. Again, to return to the case which Mr. Combe
brings forward, as decisive of the controversy between
phrenologists and theologians. He asks these last indi-
viduals to determine, whether or not man had the organs
of the lower propensities before the fall; because, he
argues, if they were added after that catastrophe, man
cannot be considered the same, as he was before they
formed parts of his constitution.
In the first place, we say, that those who believe in
the doctrine of the corruption of man's nature, are not
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE FALL 0¥ MAN. 83
under the necessity of determining, whether or not it was
so altered by the fall, as to make him be considered a
different being. The question appears to be merely one
of nomenclature, and it matters very little to the real
subject in dispute, which way it be decided. For
ourselves, we should say, that he may be most properly
said to continue essentially the same, notwithstanding
the great change that has taken place in his moral
system.
62. But to revert to the real merits of the case:
the phrenologists assert, that now there are many indi-
. viduals of sound minds in other respects, with the moral .
and intellectual organs so imperfectly developed, as to
be totally unable to perform the virtues enjoined by
·Christianity. For ourselves, we cannot even allude to
this opinion without declaring our conviction of its hor-
rible monstrosity: but still we are entitled from it to
argue, that if a man (who is not an idiot or a madman)~
can he without the higher or moral organs, it is con-
ceivable that, before the fall, the organs of the lower
propensities were equally imperfectly developed. If one
opinion is not absurd, the other is not to be rejected as
unworthy of consideration. If man, when innocent, was
in such a situation as not to require for his preservation,
combativeness, destructiveness, or cautiousness, why may
we not conclude, that the organs of these faculties were
developed, when by bis altered circumstances he required
their exercise. In daily life we often see, that indivi-
duals who, from ignorance of the world, are very liable
to be deceived on their first entrance into it, do yet, after
a little experience, acquire great caution and circum-
spection. Why inay we not conceive that something of
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
84 THE DOCTRINE OF
the same kind took place with respect to the human
race, after the fall of their common ancestor? We con-
tend, that no valid objection can be brought against the
supposition ; or, at least, whatever rational argument
bears against it, presses with equal force against the chief
of the theories of phrenology.
63. Further, if phrenologists think to overwhelm
us with this difficulty, they ought to bear in mind, that
there are many weapons in the same armoury, which
may be successfully used against them, and their own
darling science. Mr. Combe has never been so good as
specifically to inform us with what moral faculties man
was at first created. He has never told us, whether be
came from the hand of his Creator, with a head formed
like that of a New Hollander, or with one superior in
organization to that of Melancthon•.
Whichever supposition he makes, presents equally
formidable difficulties to the system of phrenology. The
New Hollander, at-cording to him, has no desire of in-
formation ; but before civilization or true religion can
be imparted to him, his mind must, by successive steps
through a series of generations, be brought to a capacity
of receiving it. But if man was at first formed in this
condition, who was to raise him from his state of debase.
ment? On Mr. Combe's supposition, he would have
no desire of civilization, and therefore could not raise
himself.
From the statement, with which his book commences,
concerning the gradual improvement of man, Mr. Combe
• Mr. Combe states, that Melancthon was remarkable for an alm<>s*
faultless formation of head; and that the New Hollanders have au
exceedingly bad cerebral developement.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TH'I!: FALL OF MAN. 85
ought, if he be consistent, to adopt this opinion of man's
being created with the very lowest and worst organiza-
tion. But by what process he will raise our common
ancestor from this debased state, we confess ourselves at
a loss to conceive. By the circumstances of the case;
self-improvement is impossible, and it is difficult to
discover by whom this primitive New Hollander is to
be assisted.
If, again, Mr. Combe chooses to give up this notion,
and to say that man was created with a perfect cerebral
developement, what cause will he assign for his sub-
sequent degeneracy ? He must turn himself' to the
rejected supposition of a fall; and so account for the
process, by which an intellectual and moral befog sunk
to a state of savage barbarism. It is nothing to the
purpose to say, that the descent was gradual, for the
difficulty lies in accounting for the first step in the
declension.
The Scriptural narrative says, that this took place
by man's own act and deed. He chose to disobey God,
and consequently exposed himself to all the evils of
God's displeasure. His nature became corrupt and
sinful, and could only be restored to its primitive purity,
by the instrumentality of its Creator.
64. We contend, that we have good reason to think,
that those men are not justly chargeable with folly or
stupidity, who persist in believing that this doctrine of
the fall of man is true, notwithstanding the declarations
of phrenologists, that they have entirely overthrown it.
This we conceive to be the case, even though we argue
on the supposition, that each faculty of the mind is
exercised by a particular organ of the brain. '¥hen,
E
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
86 THE FALL OF MAN.
however, we consider on what a slender foundation
phrenology rests, and by how loose a chain of reasoning
its principal positions are maintained, we cannot but
express great astonishment at the presumption of the
men, who arrogantly demand that a system like this
should supersede the Christian revelation.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
CHAPTER IV.
ON THE INDEPENDENT EXISTENCE AND OPERATION
OF THE NATURAL LAWS OF CREATION.
66. Importance attached to tJ1is doctrine by :Mr. Combe md llh.
Simpson. 66. Mr. C.'s definition of law. 67. Remarks on this
definition. 68. Men•s conduct cannot be calcula.ted on, in conse-
quence of the fa1L 69. Instinctive priJlciplee very often govern
men's conduct. 70, 71. Illustrated in the cue of children. 72. N<>
surprise expressed, because God does not interfere to preserve good
men from the cowiequences of their own carele81!D.ess. 73. Kea
use most strenuous exertions to effect aa object which tliey believe
is favoured by God. 74. Universal promulgation of this doctrine
orMr. Combe•s would have no practical eft'eet. 71S. Considerations.
en the organic and moral clall8es of the IAWB or Datu.re. 76. lleu•s
errors oonoerning their health arise from ignorance of the way in
which nature ac11B, not from. doubt about the uniformity of her
operatiOD& 77. Thoee only would be illfl.11e».eed by h1creaeed
knowledge on this subject, who pay much aUention to their health.
78. Case of student at College. 79. Case of those who expose
themselves to danger and death from religiOll8 motives. Howard.
Martyn. 80, Reference to members of the medical profesaion.
81. Variety of ca.uses operating to make men ca.releu about their
health.
65~ THE doctrine which Mr. Combe expounds
under this title, is, he tells us, the key to the true theory
of the divine government of the world, but which has
not hitherto been duly appreciated; and Mr. Simpson
is in such. raptures with it, that he declares it to be a
sub1ime truth, by the discovery of which Mr. Combe baa
obtained for himself among moralists, an elevation equal
to that which is accorded to Newton among natural
philosophers. It is by this latter gentleman, also, espe-
cially enjoined upon the teachers in the projected
national schools, diligently to study Mr. Combe's work,
E2
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
88 EXISTENCE AND OPERATION 01"
and carefully to educate in its principles, the youth
committed to their charge.
We cannot, therefore, hope to form a just notion of
the sort of education which it is intended to bestow upon
the rising generation of these realms, without making
ourselves acquainted with this theory of the independent
existence and operation of the natural laws. '!'hey are
put forward by phrenologists, as great discoveries in the
science of morals; and, if our examination should lead
us into a somewhat tedious detail, we hope that the
importance of the subject will form our excuse with
candid and intelligent readers.
66. "The natural laws," Mr. Combe says, "may
be divided into three great and intellectual classes,-
physical, organic, and moral; and the peculiarity of the
new doctrine is, its inculcating that these oP.erate inde-
,pendently of each other."
And, on account of the presumed importance of the
discovery, he proceeds to give us a definition of law in
the following terms : "A law, in the common accept-
ation, denotes a rule of action; it implies a subject which
acts, and that the actions, or phenomena, which that
subject exhibits, take place in an established and regular
manner; and this is the sense in which I shall use it,
when treating of physical substances a~d beings."
By physical beings, we presume the author means
men; and certainly, if he do, his definition cannot be
much commended for its lucidness; and a very little
consideration will enable us to see whence its obscurity
arises.
67. Law•, in its original sense, signifies that which
• See Appendix to ARClims!ioP '\\'lliT&L&Y's Logic.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE NATURAL LAWS OF CREATION. 89
is laid down; and it is used with this meaning when we
speak of a man's obeying a law. It signifies, a command
with which a man feels himself called upon to comply.
He may either comply with it or not ; but if he refuse
to do so, he exposes himself to certain penalties for his
refusal. When, however, law is transferred to physical
substances, it is used in another sense. It then denotes
the statement of some general fact, the several individual
instances of which, exhibit a conformity to that state-
ment. Thus, when we say that water boils at 212° Fahr.
in compliance with a law of nature, we only mean, that
such is universally the case. If it did not do so, the
.law would not exist. In the case of physical substances,
therefore, it is impossible for them not to comply with
the laws of nature, for with thein it is the observance-
which constitutes the law.
But, when we turn our attention to the moral and
intellectual being, man, we find the phenomena to be
different. With him the law still .exists, whether he
choose to comply with its injunctions or not. There is,
tl1erefore, no correct analogy between the laws by which
man is governed, and those according to which the oper·
ations of nature are carried on. · When the word law is
applied to the latter case, it has quite a different meaning
froni that which it has, when used in a strictly proper
sense.
Many authors of much higher reputation than Mr.
Combe, have confounded the two significations of the
word; and, therefore, he is not to be severely dealt with
for having fallen into the error. He, however, is peculiar
in having made this confusion of terms, a basis on which
to erect a system of moral philosophy. His scheme is
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
9() EXISTENCE AND OPERATION OF
consequently established in error, and the faultiness or
its foundation shows itself at eTery step of the author's
progress.
68. We have previously seen, that man is endowed
with a moral sense, or conscience, which lays claim to
supremacy over all his afl'ections, feelings, and active
principles. And we have also seen, that the power of
man's conscience does not correspond to its right. By
the rebellion or the subject passions, or a moral cata-
strophe, its detet'minations no longer meet with implicit
obedience. The human breast is, consequently, in a state
olanarchy, and man is swayed hither or thither, accord-
ing to the nature of the principle which is temPorarily
dominant within him. Now, as Butler says, if coo-
ecience bad strength as it has right, if it had power as it
has manifest authority, it would absolutely govern the
world. We, then, could as accurately calculate on the
actions of a man, under any given circumstances, as we
!)OW can point out the line which will be followed by the
resultant of known forces.
Under the supposed circumstances, man would accu-
rately know his duty, and his will would incline him to
follow it. He would always be happy, not because he
always aimed at happiness, but because be followed that
course of life to which his Creator had attached happi-
ness as its inseparable accompaniment. But man doea
not now exist under these supposed conditions. His pre-
sent constitution is the mere wreck of that with which
he was endowed by his Creator. He is ignorant of his
duty, and is unwilling to perform it when it is pointed
out to him. The existence of the rule of right within,
is oftentimes only made known by its fruitless efforts to
Digitized by Google
THE NATURAL LAWS OF CREATION. 91
obtain that supremacy of which it has been deprived.
Man's mind is a moral chaos. His way of life is no
longer simple and uniform, but is the ever fluctuating
result of a thousand independent forces. He is liable to
be swayed by ambition, by anger, by love of praise, by
revenge, by benevolence, and the course of his life is in
that direction, which his ruling passion points out.
Hanners with fortunes, humours turn with climes,
Tenets with books, and principles with times.
Mr. Combe appears to flatter himself, that he has
discovered a method, by the application of which, men's
conduct under any given circumstances may always be
calculated. His system is based upon what he calls the
uniform and independent operation of the laws of nature.
He takes for granted, that he has abolished the doctrine
of the corruption of man; and also assumes, that men, in
all their conduct, are uniformly and simply actuated by
a desire of procuring for themselves the greatest possible
happiness. He tacitly supposes, that whenever they act
in a way contrary to the rules of right reason, they do so
entirely from ignorance; and that, consequently, they
only need to be instructed in these independent laws of
nature, to become good and prudent individuals.
69. In all this, Mr. Combe forgets, that, in a great
majority of cases, man is as much the creature of
instinctive impulses as any of the lower animals. He has
feelings and active powers implanted in him by nature,
which govem bis conduct long before he can form a
notion of the final cause of their existence. This is the
radical error of the doctrine we are now going to inves-
tigate; and its greatness will be more apparent on a
closer examination.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
92 EXISTENC1': AND OPERATION OF
We are, for instance, told, that " whenever the rela-
tion between the human body and heat, and the conse-
quences of disregarding it, are perceived, the mind is
prompted to avoid infringement, in order to shun the
torture attached by the Creator to the decomposition of
the human body by heat;" and we are further instructed,
"that we cannot be careful not to burn ourselves, till
we know that fire destroys the muscular and nervous
system of man."
70. The proverb says, the burnt child dreads the
fire. Are we then to understand, that the child is afraid
of the fire, because he knows, that it has the power of
destroying his muscular and nervous system? We rather
think not. He shuns it for a quite different reason. He
has, by actual experience, discovered that, when applied
to his body, it hurts him, and, therefore, he is fearful of
again coming into contact with it. There is a principle
implanted in his nature, by which he believes, that like
causes uniformly produce Jike effects. It is not necessary
for him to be made speculatively acquainted with the
theory of cause and effect, before he acts in conformity
with it. Nor does his belief in the uniformity of the law,
arise from experience or education. It is inherent in his
mental constitution; and the only effect of subsequent
experience, is to modify the universality of his belief.
After being burned at the fire-place, the child dreads to
come near the grate, even though there should be no fire
in it. It is only by a process of natural induction, which
is not the less certain from his being ignorant of its steps,
that he comes to know the essential conditions of his
being burned. His confidence in the uniformity of
natl1re's proceedings, has not its origin in education or
THE NATURAL LAWS OF CREATION. 93
reason, but is instinctive. At first, he generalises too
much, and confounds the real cause of the consequence
with the unessential and accidental circumstances attend-
ing it.
When a child bas been pleased with the sound pro.
ceeding from his striking the table with his plaything,
he will try again to produce the noise by hitting a soft
substance; and experiment alone instructs him, that the
pleasing sensation will only be produced, when his instru-
ment comes directly in contact with wood. His first
conviction arose from a principle which taught him to
believe in the uniformity of nature's operations, and his
experience was not sufficient to instruct him, i~ what.
circumstances it was necessary for the causes to be alike,.
in order that they might produce the like effect. What.
advantage, then, will it be to him in after life, to have
the uniformity of nature's laws gravely enunciated, as a ·
newly discovered principle?
71. By applying to the breast of his mother, the
infant derives the sustenance provided for him by nature;
but in the first days of his existence, he knows not that.
his mother only can provide him with his food. He,.
consequently, seeks for it at the breast of his nurse, or
any other person who has him in their arms; and it is
only by being disappointed in his search, that he comes
to look to his mother alone for his nutriment. He has a
principle implanted in .him which teaches him, that
because he bas once obtained food from bis mother, he
can continue to obtain it; but it is experience which
informs him, that his mother only can supply him with
it. A knowledge of the laws of nature has nothing
to do with either his mistakes, or their subsequent cor-
E 3
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
94 EXISTENCE AND OPERATION OF
rection. It they had, he would most certainly:starve,
before he oould discover to whom he was to look for his
support.
The principle which governs the conduct of the
infant, is practically the same as that by which men are
aetuated in their mode of carrying on the affairs of life.
Mr. Combe appears to be of opinion, that men uniformly
act from a prudent calculation of all the probable conse-
quences of their conduct ; and that, wh~ver they
expose themselves to danger or damage, by transgressing
the laws, to a knowledge of which he attaches so much
importance, it is from ignorance of their existence, or of
their mode of action. But the truth is, that it is only
some very singularly endowed individuals who adopt
such a line orconduct. The actuating principles of men
are their desires and feelings ; and, when these are
strongly set upon any object, they are ready to overlook,
or under-estimate the difficulties which stand in the way
of its attainment. Men do not incur the danger of
failure, because they hope the natural laws will be
altered in their favour; but because they will not think
of the obstacles which these laws present to the ful'-
therance of their designs.
72. In pointing out the mistakes into which men
have fallen, in consequence of their ignorance of· the
independent existence and operation of the natural laws,
Mr. Combe states, "that men, on this account, wonder,
that pious missionaries embarking in an unsound ship, on
a message of love, should be drowned; while the greatest
moral monsters are preserved, if they are careful to sail
in a strong and well-found vessel."
Now we venture to say, that in the population of
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
. ' ~ ~.,_ ... "'.;:..
THE NATURAL LAWS OF CREATION. 96
London, not three sane individuals will be found, who
would express any surprise at either of these occurrences.
They would think that the bad men were wise in their
generation, while the good were very imprudent; they
would, perhaps, regret that such should be the case ; and
wonder that the missionaries should not have been better
advised ; but at this point their surprise would stop.
They would not in the least complain of the dealings of
God with his people, for not having providentially inter·
fered to preserve those who were devoting themselves to
his service. If missionaries ever do act so foolishly as
to put to sea in an unserviceable vessel, they do not do
so from a hope of being miraculously preserved; but are
urged by motives similar to those of the slave trader who
goes on an expedition to Africa in a ship of the same
kind. In both cases, the men are under the governance
of hope; and they have an undefined expectation, that
the ship which has come safely to port so often, will most
likely do so this time also.
In truth, men do not send bad ships to sea, from an
expectation that the good objects on which they are em-
ployed will preserve them ; but because their love of
money, or their poverty, prevents them from providing
sound ones ; and they are certain, that the desire of
sailors to be employed will always ensure them of a crew.
When the late committee of the House of Commons sat
on shipwreck, did they ever hear of men's going to sea
in ill-found vessels, because they hoped that God would
save them from foundering, in consequence of the bene-
volent objects of their voyage? Such a supposition was
reserved for them to make, who exclusively arrogate w
themselves the title of teachers of wisdom.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
96 EXISTENCE AND OPERATION 01'"
7a. Further, we maintain that a confident belief
that his undertaking is approved of, and favoured by
God, will always make a man use very careful exertion
to carry it successfully through. Did the generals of
antiquity so constantly endeavour to instil into the minds
of their soldiers, the belief that their cause was especially
favoured by heaven, i~ order that they might give them-
selves no trouble about the matter,-on account of their
certainty that the victory would be gained for them by a
higher power? If human nature were what the phre-
nologists represent it to be, such would be the effect of
the conviction. But these ancient leaders were better
acquainted with the active principles of man's nature,
than modern phrenologists. They knew that men most
strenuously exert themselves, when they have strong
hopes that their exertions will not prove unsuccessful.
They were convinced by practical experience, that their
soldiers fought most manfully, when they believed that
their cause was the cause of heaven.
And such we find universally to be the case. How-
ever convinced a Christian missionary may be, that he
is engaged in an undertaking especially favoured by
God, he never, on that account, embarks in an ill-found
ship. His weU-founded conviction is never, with him,
a reason for neglecting the lessons of prudence and cir-
cumspection. If he does neglect them, he acts from the
same motives as the man who sails in an unsound vessel,
on a voyage of nefarious traffic. He forgets, that every
voyage the ship has made, renders her more unfit to bear
the wear and tear of another; and embarks in her with
the hope that, since she has so often crossed the seas in
safety, she will come to her destined haven this time also.
oigi1izedbyGoo le
__.___ ... . ,... .....
THE 'NATURA'L LAWS OF CREATION. 9'j
IC he is disappointed in these his expectations, his
surviving friends do not wonder that he has not been
especially protected by Providence; but they regret
that he was deficient in a prudential regard to his own
safety.
It is very probable, that the supposed missionary has
never been told of the independent existence and oper-
ation of the laws of nature ; but, if he had, his conduct
would not have been one whit different. He never
imagined that if a plank started in the midst of the
ocean, the God whom he served would prevent water
from coming in at the leak ; but he flattered himself
that the plank would not start this time.
74. In point of fact, we do not suppose that the
universal promulgation of this doctrine, which Messrs.
Combe and Simpson boast to be the true theory of the
divine government of the world, would alter the conduct
of a·single human being. What possible effect, then,
can result from this boasted discovery? These laws, be
it remembered, are not enunciated as a speculative
theory, but are gravely put forth as an active, practical
principle. And yet, without knowing them, every man,
every woman, every child, is led by the instinctive feel-
ings of their nature, to act in accordance with them, just
as much as if they had had them instilled into their minds
by phrenological teachers. It is not the laws themselves
which require to be taught, but the applications of
them; and these every apprentice learns, when he is
put to practise the employment, by the exercise of which
he is afterwards to earn his livelihood.
The carpenter never supposes, that there is any
question of morality involved in the shape of a roof; or
98 EXISTENCE AND OPERATION OF
that the strength of a beam is at all affected by the cha-
racter of him who puts it in its place. He has, indeed,
very likely, never heard of the natural laws, or their
independent operation; but his expertness in his business
would not be one whit increased, ir he were as well
acquainted with them as Mr. Combe himself. He prac-
tically acts in accordance with them ; and he could do
no more, if they were formally instilled into his mind.
The carpenter may often err in his calculations of
the capability of his materials to bear the stress he puts
upon them ; but, he does not make the mistake on
account of his ignorance of the laws of nature. The
error may equally occur in the case of a man who is per-
fectly acquainted with these laws. It takes its rise from
a faulty estimate of the power of wood to resist pressure.
A man may, also, endanger the lives of the inha-
bitants of a house by building it weakly, because he
will not be at the expense of building it of sufficiently
sound and good materials; but he commits this crime,
not from ignorance, but from knavery. A knowledge of
Mr. Combe~s theory, therefore, would have but little
chance of making him act differently.
In the remarks we have made on what Mr. Combe
calls the physical class of the natural laws, our object
has been, to show, that a formal knowledge of them is a
matter of no consequence to men's conduct in the actual
business of life; for, that they uniformly act in accord-
ance with these laws, though they may have never heard
of them. There is a principle implanted in us, by which
we believe, that like antecedents are uniformly followed
by like CODsequents; and; when men do not act in
accordance with the laws of nature, the infringement of
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THK NATURAL LAWS OF C:REATION. 99
them arises from their mistaking similar antecedents for
the same antecedents, or from their wilfully shutting
their eyes to the consequences of their own actions.
Ignorance of the uniformity of nature's laws, is, conse-
quently, never the cause of their being broken; and, if
these laws were formally stated to the apprehensions of
all men, infringement of them would not be one whit less
frequent than it now is.
7s. When we tum our attention to the organic and
moral classes of these laws, another element is brought
into the discussion ; for the phrenologists not only assert,
that a knowledge of the way in which the body is a1Fected
by external circumstances, would make men uniformly
careful of their health; but they also broadly state, that
the moral conduct of men depends upon their physical
organization. This latter proposition, we regard as both
false in its essence, and highly pernicious in its conse-
quences; but,· before we proceed to examine the argu-
ments by which it is attempted to be supported, we shall
make some observations upon the effect which an ac-
quaintance with the organic class of the laws of nature
might be expected to have upon men's treatment of
themselves.
76. It sometimes certainly occurs, that, from mere
ignorance, men put themselves into situations which are
highly prejudicial to their health. They do not know
the deleterious eft'ects which are consequent upon certain
modes of life ; and, consequently, incur dangers, from
which, a better acquaintance with their organic system
would be a most efficient protection.
But in this case, as in that of the physical class of
these laws, men's errors arise, not from any doubt about
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
- .- :......::.·.=== •
100 l:XJSTE~CE AND OPERATION OF
the uniformity and independence of nature's operations,
but from ignorance of the way in which she does act.
We treat them, therefore, preposterously, if we suppose
that, by telling them of the independent existence and
operation of the laws of nature, we should enable them to
escape from the bad consequences of an unhealthy mode
of life.
77. In considering this subject, also, we must bear
in mind, that those only would be influenced by increased_
physical knowledge, who are uniformly of opinion, that
to be in good health is the chief end of man's existence.
If they are strongly actuated by a desire to attain some
other object, they will consider the state of their corpo-
real system a matter of minor importance. They will
make what they esteem the less good, give way to the
greater; and persist in a course of conduct which ·gives
them satisfaction, although they are perfectly aware, that
it is likely to induce disease or weakness. ·
78. When, for instance, a man gives his days and
nights to study, and does not allow himself sufficient
time for rest and refreshment ; does he do so, because he
believes that the organization or his body is different
from that of other men's? or does he suppose that he
will be miraculously supported, because his motive is a
high and holy one? According to Mr. Combe's princi-
ples, such ought to be his persuasion ; but, the fact is,
his desires are strongly set upon one object, and to attain
that he is content to risk sickness and ill-health. Many
students at College lay the foundations of subsequent
sufferings and disease, by the severe exertions they make
to obtain a high place at their examination. But does
Mr. Combe suppose, that these sacrifices will be at all
•
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
THE NATURAL LAWS OF CREATIO~. 101
abated in number, by the promulgation of his exposition
of the independent existence and operation of the laws
of nature? If he do, he will most certainly find himself
mistaken. The young men know full well the risk they
are b1curring ; but, animated by the prospect of the
prize at which they are aiming, they are content to incur
all the penalties to which, by their perseverance, they are
exposing themselves. Or, rather, so strongly are their
minds set upon the attainment of the prize before them,
that they never think of the dangers they incur. Some
men have passed through as much fatigue, and have
afterwards enjoyed health and strength; and they hope
to be found among these favoured individuals, and
not be of the large number of those· who have ruined
their nervous systems by the severity of their university
exercises.
To suppose otherwise, would be just as absurd as to
account for men's exposing themselves to wounds and
death on the field of battle, by declaring, that all the
individuals who did so, were convinced that the laws of
nature were suspended in their favour ; and if a bullet
passed through their head, it would not occasion death~
We need hardly say, that not the most desperate leader
of a forlorn hope, ever entertained so fond an imagin-
ation. This man knows well the risk to which he exposes
himself: but high animal spirits and a courageous heart,
make him overlook the most threatening danger, and
enable him to fix his contemplation on the honours which
await him, if he return safe from his glorious entcr-
prize.
Aud the same is the case with the young student at
College. His decaying spirits are animated, his Bagging
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
~ -- ..:.__~--. ·
102 EXISTENCE AND OPR&ATJO:N OF
energies are roused, by the prospect of the reputation
and advancement which will be his reward, if he succeed
in his undertaking. How idle, then, must it be, to think
to change such a man's purpose, by talking to him of
the independent existence and operation of the organic
cla88 of the laws of nature. He is not following a course
of life in ignorance of its effect upon his constitution.
His own feelings inform him, that his body is suft'ering
from the labours he is undergoing; but he refuses to
listen to their authoritative intimations; and we cannot
expect that he would hearken very diligently to the
advice which Mr. Combe or Mr. Simpson might respec-
tively give him.
79. Similar remarks may be made, with respect to
those individuals who expose themselves to danger and
death from religious motives. They are animated with
a strong desire of benefitting others; and that they may
win souls to Christ, are content to waste their mortal
bodies with unremitting exertion.
Does Mr. Combe suppose that Howard, the philan-
thropist, when be exposed himself to pestilential and
infectiousdiseases,in his personal inspectionofill-regulated
gaols and hospitals, ever imagined that the laws of nature
were suspended in his favour? He well knew, that his
body was just as liable to catch infection as other men's;
but the high and holy purpose by which he was
animated, prompted him, calmly and deliberately, to
undergo the risk; and, when he was finally overtaken by
illness, enabled him manfully to endure it. He expressed
no surprise when labouring under a fever, caught in the
course of his benevolent enquiries. He did not find
fault with the Providence of God, for.. allowing one,
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
· -1.:::::"' _
-. ..,..........
-
THE NATURAL LAWS OF CllEATION. 103
whose object was so beneficent, to be cut oft" by disease.
He took every known means to overcome his malady;
but, when his constitution 6nally gave way, he meekly
resigned his spirit into the hands of Him who had
given it.
Henry Martyn, the celebrated missionary, injured
his health by the severe labour he underwent before he
attained the distinction of senior wranglership ; and he,
again, incurred pain and suffering, by the exertions he
made in translating the New Testament into Hindoo-
atanee; but he no more expected, that the consequences
of too great mental effort would be prevented from
occurring in the second case, than in the first. At Cam-
bridge, he was actuated by a selfish motive, the desire of
distinction ; in India, he was under the impulse of a far
higher principle, the wish to provide the Hindoos with
the word of truth ; but he did not, in this case, at all
expect that be should be providentially preserved from
incuning the pains to which he had voluntarily exposed
himself'. And when, in the end, bis life was sacrificed
by the labours he underwent, in his exertions to propa-
gate Christianity in a tropical climate,-neither himself
nor bis friends expressed any surprise, that God did not
interfere miraculously to prevent so devoted a servant
from being cut off in the midSt of his labours. His
friends regretted his death; but, at the same time, looked
upon it as what might naturally have been expected from
his severe exertions.
80. Further to show the inefficacy of mere know-
ledge of the organic laws to make men follow that course
of life which is most conducive to good health, we may
refer to the case of gentlemen in the medical profession.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
104 EXIST.ENCE AND OPERATION OF
If Mr. Combe's statement on this branch of the subject
were correct, it would result, that these gentlemen would,
uniformly and carefully, abstain from every thing which
might prove pernicious to their corporeal system. But
do they attend to this? Do they never overload the
stomach with a quantity of indigestible food? Do they
never injure their physical organization by an indulgence
in intoxicating liquors? These gentlemen, however,
must be presumed to be well acquainted with the laws of
physical organization ; and if they ever violate these
laws, their violation must show, that mere knowledge is
not sufficient to make men do that which is most con-
ducive to health.
The truth is, that in this case, no more than in the
first, do men act from motives of prudential regard to
their own welfare. Other motives are their springs of
action; and to change their mode of life, not only is their
mind to be informed, but their will is to be influenced.
We <lo not, indeed, affect to deny, that, in many cases,
men do things prejudicial to health from ignorance of
their detrimental consequences; but oftener, far oftener,
the most exact acquaintance with the human frame,
would not have the least effect in making them change
their habits.
81. Here also we have to observe, that when men
live in such a way as to induce bad health, they do not
do so from a disbelief in the uniformity and independence
of nature's laws, but from ignorance of the particular
application of these laws. It is practical, not theoretical
information which they want. We cannot expect to
alter their conduct by a statement of the laws of nature,
or their modes of operation ; but by informing them con-
. o,9,11zedbyGoogle
--~--------~='"-'-"~=-......-----------
THE NATURAL LAWS OF CREATION. 105
cerning the particular subject in which they err. And
even this sort of information is very often unavailing, to
make men uniformly prudent as to the treatment of their
bodies. This inefficacy in part arises, from the pecu-
liarity and uncertainty of the way in which external
agents act, as causes of disease. "In regard to the
action of external agents as causes of disease," says
Dr. Abercrombie, "we may take a single example in
the effects of cold: of six individuals who have been
exposed to cold in the same degree, and, so far as we
can judge, under the same circumstances, one may be
seized with an inflammation of the lungs, one with
diarrhrea, and one with rheumatism, while three may
escape without any injury." This uncertainty always
has had, and always will have, a very powerful effect on
the actual conduct of men. In exposing themselves to
infection, each will hope, that he shall be one of the
favoured division who escape unscathed by the danger.
When, moreover, a man's mind is under the influence
of any commanding desire, be it good or evil,' he will
always under-calculate the chances of his failure, and
over-calculate his probability of success. Notwithstand-
ing the known deadliness of an African climate, men
have always been found, who were ready to brave the
danger of penetrating into the interior of that continent,
for the sake of reward or distinction. These men have
uniformly proceeded on their perilous enterprize, with a
full knowledge of the numbers who have perished in the
same undertaking; and, if asked, not one would have
stated, that he disbelieved in the uniformity of the opera-
tions of the organic laws of nature. He would, perhaps,
have said, that he hoped the strength of his constitution
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
106 EXISTENCE AND OPERATION OF
would resist all the dangers to which it should be
exposed, and that, if it did, how ample would be his
reward ! He would rest his expectations upon the
chances which were in his favour. Very many perished
from the effects of an African climate, but some escaped ;
and he hoped to be found among the survivors.
The man, in this case, does not fancy that the opera-
tion of the organic laws of nature are not uniform, but
he relies upon the fact, that the mode in which they act
has not yet been discovered. For anything he knows to
the contrary, his constitution may be of the kind most
calculated to resist the deadly influences to which he is
exposing himself.
What avails it, then, to talk to such a man of the
uniform and independent operation of these laws? You
may as well expect to make a man an expert seaman, by
telling him, that the earth was attracted to the sun by
the force of gravity.
There does also appear to be so great a degree of
uncertainty prevailing, as to the regimen best calculated
to preserve health, that a man may well be excused for
deviating into error. It very often happens, that a man
who is following a course of life which is generally
thought to be most prejudicial to health, attains to a
green and vigorous old age. Other reasons, also, besides
the uncertainty of the subject, conduce to make men·.
unwilling to attend to this sort of advice. The high·
spirits of youth will not submit to be cautious; and inen
will not attend to the ·state of their health, till they are
alarmed by feelings of pain and uneasiness. While they
are well and strong, they go on rejoicing, and never
think about taking care of their body, till the jarring of
Digitized by Google
THE N.ATURAL LAWS OJ.<' CREATION. 10'7
the machinery tells them that the instrument is out of
order.
Men, in fact, in this case as in others, act more from
their feelings than their judgment. They gratify their
wishes, and never think of the effects which shall ensue
to their bodies, till the mischief has been produced. If
reminded of the fact, they will very likely acknowledge
that the kind of life they are pursuing is very unfavour-
able to their health, but 'still they do not give it up: and
they would not be at all induced to do so by the pro-
mulgation of Mr. Combe's system. With them it is
not the head which requires to be informed, but the will
which needs to be inB.uenced; and, most certainly, the
phrenological theory affords no materials for such an
operation.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
108
CHAPTER v.
ON THE PHRENOLOGICAL DOCTRINE, THAT THE
MORAL FACULTIES OF MAN ARE DEPENDENT ON
THE ORGANIZATION OF HIS BRAIN.
82. Extent to which Mr. Combe pushes this doctrine. 83. It leads to
fatalism. 84. Wealmess of the proofs by which it is supported.
85. Possible for a man to overcome the propensities to which he is
exposed by an ill-organized brain. 86. Case of the North American
savages, and New Hollanders. 87. Evidence given before a Com-
mittee of the House of Commons, on the state of the Aborigines of
our Colonies, decisive of the question at issue. 88. To change a
man's conduct we must endeavour to influence his will 89. Pro.-
bable effect of this parliamentary evidence on the theory of the
phrenologists. On the hereditarg transmission of mental qualities.
90. If phrenology be true, mental powers must be transmissible by
descent, as well as bodily qualities. 91. Cases brought forward by
Mr. Combe. 92. Remarks on these cases. 93. Considerations on
a third case. 94. Sons of eminent men do not often possess the
qualities for which their fathers have been remarkable. 95. Ob-
scurity of this subject does not arise from ignorance ofthe functions
of the brain. 96. Ridiculous application of phrenology.
82. WE now proceed to the consideration of that
part of the subject which we regard as the most per-
nicious and dangerous.
We have seen, that Mr. Combe endeavours to prove,
or rather assumes, that the laws, according to which
organized bodies are governed, are the same as those
according to which dead matter is acted on. In this we
think he is wrong, and the difference in the two cases
arises from the powerful effect which the soul has upon
the body to which it is united.
Now, however, we have to follow Mr. Combe in his
exposition of the phrenological system, a step further.
019
111zedbyGoogle
MORAL FACULTIES OF MAN. 109
He not only teaches that the soul has no power over the
body, but, that it is actually subordinate to the body
in which it dwells. He promulgates the doctrine, that
the moral and intellectual faculties of man, are entirely
dependant upon the organization of his brain. He
goes so far as to say, that a brain of a certain con-
struction, is no more adequate to the manifestation of
Christian virtues, than the brain of an idiot from birth
to the exhibition of the intellect of a Leibnitz or a
Bacon. Again he declares," It appears to me that the
native American savages, and native New Hollanders,
cannot, with their present brains, adopt Christianity, or
civilization."
83. We have already alluded to this part of
Mr. Combe's system, and shall shortly prove, by the
best evidence to be had_on such a subject, that many
native Americans have been converted to Christianity,
although phrenologists have positively demonstrated that
such a conversion is impossible. At present we wish
to remark on the fatalism to which this doctrine
inevitably leads, and the strange infatuation men must
be under, to bring forward such a system, with the
notion that it is favourable to morality. Well may
Mr. Combe say, "it goes to the root of theology and
morals;" for, if it be at all propagated, it must in-
evitably root them up altogether. It is, no doubt, very
pretty and seemingly philosophical, to talk of the plea-
sures to be derived from exercising the intellectual facul-
ties, and giving them the supremacy over the animal
organs; but the real question is, What will the great
mass of mankind think about the aifair? We know, that
it requires constant watchfulness and anxiety, in the best
F
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
110 PHRENOJ.OGICAL DOCTRINE OF THE
constituted mind, to keep the animal passions in subjec-
tion. The very terms which all men use in describing
the transaction, imply labour, difficulty, care. This state
of alertness, moreover, must be constant; at least, a man,
if he would not allow his animal passions to get the
victory, must always hold himself in readiness for active
exertion.
But there is nothing to which men are more disin-
clined, than this state of mental discipline and exercise.
To enable them, therefore, to go through the work reso-
lutely and prosperously, every possible force and power
must be called into operation. Every motive or in-
ducement, which can be honestly used, must be brought
into play, in order that the moral faculties may not be
worsted in the conflict ; and every temptation or opinion
which has an opposite tendency, must be as carefully
eschewed.
Now it becomes us well to consider, what effect the
doctrine, that man's moral sentiments are dependant upon
his physical organization, will have upon the contest
which is, or ought to be, constantly going on within
us. The consequences of the system are not to be
calculated from the mode of its action, in the case
of those whose conduct is likely to be modified by
their station in society, or other adventitious circum-
stances. We must have recourse to those large masses
of men, whose minds are not under such ameliorating
influences; and, with such men, it may be confidently
predicted, that the reception of the doctrines inculcated
by the phrenologists will be most pernicious. While
they are experiencing the difficulty of keeping their
animal propensities under the dominion of reaSQn, we
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
KORAL FACULTIES OF KAN. 111
may expect that they will gladly avail themselves of
the excuse which this system presents, for giving up the
labour.
" We have discovered," they may be expected to say,
"the cause of the uneasiness we have been experiencing.
We have been endeavouring to do what the constitution
of our nature renders impossible. We are so formed,
that, in us, the animal propensities will always have the
pre-eminence. In our heads, the lower organs are largely
developed, and are so powerful, that the intellect and
moral feelings are unable to cope with them. Let us,
therefore, give up the useless contest, and enjoy life while
we may."
If a phrenologist were to dilate to these men, on the
lofty nature of the pleasures which result from acting in
conformity with the moral and intellectual faculties;
may it not be anticipated, that they would answer, "We
know by actual experience the pleasures we derive from
animal gratification ; but of these other pleasures we can
form no conception. You tell us, moreover, that our
opinions depend upon the organization of the brain; and
why should we attempt to go counter to such an over-
whelming inftuence? By your own showing, we cannot
succeed. It is, therefore, much wiser not to make the
useless effort."
We do uot see how, on the principles of the phreno-
logists, these men are to be convicted of an error in rea-
soning. ·They are merely following out the consequences,
which are legitimately deducible from the premises
placed before them. Surely, a system which leads to
such results, ought to be based on a strong foundation
before our assent to it is demanded. The proofs ought
F2
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
112 PHRl<!NOLOGICAL DOCTRINE OF THE.
certainly to be very cogent, which are to compel us to resign
the <!bligatiOns of duty, and the inducements of immorta-
lity, for so dangerous a novelty. Surely, moreover, such a
system ought to be subjected to a very rigid examination,
before it is allowed to be made the ground-work of a
national education.
84. And yet, the proofs of the truth of this philo-
sophy are altogether unsatisfactory. We are told, that
in' the heads of all the criminals which have bet:n exa-
mined, the organs of the animal propensities decidedly
preponderate over those of the moral sentiments and
intellect.
But, granting that this is the case, does it show that
it is impossible for a man, by the aid of religious prin-
ciple, to counteract the evil propensities to which he is
subjected by having an ill-organized brain? If this
cannot be demonstrated, the whole proof at once falls to
the ground. If the phrenologists are not prepared to
show, that an honest, benevolent, and temperate man has
never existed, in whose head the organs of the animal
propensities preponderated over those of the lower senti-
ments and intellect, the whole case falls to the ground.
Before they can expect reasonable men to give credence
to their system, and before that system can be of any
avail for the purposes to which they wish to apply it,
they must prove, that a good man has never existed with
an ill-organized brain.
86. And this, we maintain, they cannot do. We
maintain, that it is possible fur a man, by the use of the
mearis which God has afforded him, to overcome all the
temptations to which he can be exposed by the worst
possible constituted head.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
KORAL FACULTIES 01' MAN. 113
Some men have stronger arms than others; but,
because the muscles of a man's limbs are well developed,
it does not follow that he should be continually exercising
.them. It may be easier and pleasanter for him than
other men, to raise great weights, but that does not say
that he should be always so employed. He may be
induced by preponderating motives to tum himself to
other employments; an.d .the muscles of bis arm may
become comparatively weak, from want of exercise;
while a person, with a naturally much inferior organiza-
tiOn, may, by continually exercising the muscles of the
limb in question, impart to it an almost miraculous
strength and energy. And the same thing, we contend,
takes place with respect to the brain. The phrenolcigists
-do not say that the brain thinks, but that the mind
thiys by means of the brain. The mind, moreover,
must have the power of choosing what organ it will
make use of. Many extraneous forces may incline it to
make use of one organ rather than another; and among
these forces the size of the organ may have an influence.
But still it is only one of many forces, and the final
resultant of the whole, depends upon the intensity of
each. If, consequently, by education, or those spiritual
influences which the phrenologists so much despise, a
man is led to use the organs of the moral and intellec-
tual faculties, rather than those of the animal propensi-
ties, these latter will diminish from want of exercise,
while the former will daily increase in size and vigour.
On this theory, if the affections are placed on new
objects, new organs will be called into activity. And
however loudly those formerly used may plead for their
accustomed exercise, still, if the new di:sires are suf-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
114 PHBENOLOGICAL DOCTRINE OY THE
ciently powerful, they will enable the subject of them
to resist all the clamour and all the solicitation. It is
obvious, that the individuals whom Mr. Combe adduces
as proving the truth of his theory, have, from their child-
hood, been devoted to the gratification of the animal
propensities. They have never known any other enjoy-
ment than what sprung from this polluted source; and
they so long persisted in complying with the cravings of
appetite, that in the end, they were destroyed by enemies
whose strength they had themselves occasioned.
86. Mr. Combe expressly brings forward the native
American savages, and native New Hollanders, as in-
stances of people who cannot, with their present brains,
receive Christianity and civilization. We suppose that he
has appealed to these people as the cases most favourable
to his theory ; and adopting his statements, their ,fOn-
dition appears fully to bear out all he has said about
them.
87. There has, however, recently been much light
thrown upon the condition of the native Americans, as
well as other barbarians with what is called a very faulty
organization of the brain. We allude to the evidence,
given before a Select Committee of the House of Com-
mons, on the Aborigines of our several, colonies. This
evidence does not consist of the opinions of theorists, but
is composed of the observatic;ms of practical men, engaged
in the work of civilizing savage tribes. The evidence of
one gentleman examined before the Committee, is a com-
plete inatantia crucis, as to the points at issue between
the phrenologists and the advocates of Christianity, as a
means ofcivilization. Mr. Combe says, that it is manifest
from the shape of the heads of the Aborigines of Ame-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
KORAL FACULTIES OF MAN. . UIS
rica, as well as from other evidence, that they are not fit
to become Christians: that their cerebral organization is
so bad, as to render it impossible for them to understand
the doctrines of Christianity. And he declares, that
· the only way of fitting them for the reception of these
doctrines, is by gradually enlarging their moral and
intellectual organs, so that they shall come to desire
civilization.
Now, is this phrenological theory home out by actual
facts? Phrenologists are very fond of appealing to this
sort of evidence, when it is of their own choosing, and
very loud in proclaiming that it is the sole foundation
of their system. We trust, therefore, that they will give
attention to unbiassed evidence, and not run away from
the difficulty it presents to them.
Mr. Elisha Bates, a member of the Society of Friends,
states:-" The Society of Friends have been engaged for
many years past in efforts for the civilization and im-
provement of several tribes of Indians in the United
States. The yearly meeting of Ohio, to which I belong,
has had for a number of years, perhaps thirty or forty, the
remnant of the Shawnee tribe of Indians under their care.
I am myself a member of the committee that has bad
charge of that concern, and have been since the year
1817, at which time I emigrated to that state. The
prosecution of the labours of that committee, has led us
to some acquaintance with the previous measures and
actions of the Society. I think that the Society of
Friends, and the Indians of different tribes in the United
States, have been in some sort of connexion since the
year 1681, at which time William Penn addressed a
letter to the Indians of Pennsylvania, and the following
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
116 PHRENOLOGICAL DOCTRINE OF THE
year he held a treaty with some of the tribes near Phila-
delphia, ·and the result of that first communication, and
of the treaty, has been a settled friendship and good
understanding between the Friends and the Indians
generally.
" The plan which the Society of Friends adopted in
their early intercourse with the Indians, was to attempt
civilization first. The religious communications, so Car
as I am inlormed, and I have made it a subject of some
investigation, were those o{ a very general character,
tecogni:i:ing the being of a God, and the accountability
of man, but not with special reference to the peculiar
doctrines of the Christian religion. An idea seemed to
have been formed, that civilization was to make way for
the introduction of the doctrines of the Christian religion.
Within the last few years we have had occasion to review
the whole course of proceedings, and we have come to the
conclusion, from a deliberate view of the past, that we
erred, sorrow{ully erred, in the plan which was origin-
ally adopted, in making civilization the first object, {or
we cannot count on a single individual that we have
brought·to a full adoption of Christianity."-pp. 184-7.
" If you had to recommence the same undertaking,
would you now begin with Christianity? Decidedly we
should.-And that in consequence of the experience you
have had ? Yes ; and a full conviction that the experi-
ment has failed ; and the plan now adopted is to make
Christian instruction the primary object."-p. 189.
This evidence is decisive as to one part of the ques-
tion ; it shows that the plan recommended by the phre-
nologists is quite ineffectual in the work of reclaiming
savages to civilized life. The experiment has been made
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
MOB.AL FACULTIES OJ' HA:S. 117
by a society of men remarkable for the perseverance with
which they endeavour to advance any practicable plan,
and has been given up after a full trial.
The next evidence we shall quote is that of•Mr.
Beecham, secretary to the Wesleyan Missionary Society :
"I may," he says, "be permitted to furnish an illustra-
tion or two of the principle I am now maintaining ;
namely, that civilization does not furnish motives suf-
ficiently powerful to induce the heathen· to renounce
their former course of life. The first of the cases to
which I shall refer, is derived from the experience of
our Society among the Chippeway Indians in Upper
Canada. • • • The Governor of Upper Canada had
made many attempts to induce the Indians to renounce
their wandering life. • • • They gave the Governor
credit for very kind and benevolent intentions ; yet in
answer to all his applications, while they thanked him
for his kindness, they uniformly told him that they pre-
ferred their own mode of life to that followed by Euro-
peans. 'l'his, again, was the case with the Indians who
are situated in the neighbourhood of the river St. Clair.
The Governor made several attempts to induce them
also. to renounce their wandering habits, and devote
themselves to civilized pursuits; but they also-refused.
I have here .a letter from the chief himself, in his own
hand-writing, in which he says, in reference to the
attempts that had thus been made to promote civilization
without Christianity, 'I have heard of no instance, in
this part of the country, where the plan of first civilizing
the heathen Indians ever succeeded.' • • • In regard to
the Chippeway Indians, I have to state, that they ~re
comprehended in our missionary plans, and that the
F3
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
118 PHRENOLO~ICAL DOCTRINE OF THE
success of our exertions among them bas been very great.
The chief to whom I have made reference (Peter Jones,
by bis baptismal name), was the first convert to Chris-
tianity. Since that time our endeavours have been at-
tended with such success, that we have now ten very
prosperous missions among the Chippeways and Mo..
hawks, and other Indians. We have several native
preachers among them. This same chief bas now for
some years been a preacher, and is engaged in trans-
lating the Scriptures into the Chippeway language.-
He has, I believe, completed the greater part of the
New Testament."-pp. 126-131.
We know not in what way these facts will be recon-
ciled with the phrenological theory of cerebral develope-
ment, or arranged under the organic and moral classes
of the laws of nature. Perhaps the phrenologists will
take no notice of them, but still they are decisive against
the truth of their system. Mr. Combe tells us, that
from the cerebral developement of the North American
Indians, it is impossible for them to receive the doctrines
of Christianity ; and, if there were any truth in phreno-
logy, or his discovery about the laws of nature anything
else than a piece of quackery, such would certainly be
the case. The experiment, however, has been tried, and,
notwithstanding the decisions of phrenology, these poor
savages have listened to the sound of the Gospel, and
have given proof, by a change of their tempers and lives,
that they have not listened to it in vain.
This conduct of theirs is, indeed, precisely that
which a just theory of human nature would lead us to
expect; and, by consequence, goes directly in the teeth
of the anticipations of phrenologists. A just philosophy
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
MORAL FACULTIES OF MAN. 119
brings us to the conclusion, that men's conduct is ulfr.
mately governed by their desires, feelings, and aifections.
These sometimes are in accordance with a sound judg-
ment, and sometimes in opposition to it ; bu.t they
always prove themselves to be the governing power in
man's nature. When they are set upon right objects,
his conduct is such as it ought to be; when they are
perverted and degraded, the conduct follows the direction
which they give it•
.88. If, therefore, we wish to change a man's mode
of life, we must endeavour to influence his will by
appealing to his imagination and his feelings. As long
as we set before the savage, accustomed to range at large
in his native forests, merely the restraints and proprieties
of civilized society, he feels no inclination to give up his
habitual freedom. Nothing is presented to his mind
which engages his aifections; nothing is set before him
which has the capability of making him disgusted with
his barbarous liberty. He is, however, as amenable to
the power of gratitude and love, as the most civilized
European ; and when he can once be made to compre-
hend ~he kindness of God, as shown in revealed religion,
he is instantly brought under the influence of these
feelings. He becomes a little child, and the savageness
of his nature is at end. In order that a man may be a
good Christian, it is not necessary for him to understand
abstract principles, or to be able to follow the steps of a
logical demonstration : Christianity appeals to his heart;
'l'he missionary is a bearer of glad tidings to the heathen
savage; and, when his message is so much attended to
as to make its object known, he has in a great measure
eifected bis purpose. He is then able to reach the feel-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
120 PHRENOLOGICAL DOCTRINE OF THE
iogs of his audience ; and to bring them under the con-
straint of law, by the combined operation of love, of
reverence, and of fear.
89. But whatever may be the explanation of the
phenomenon, the fact is now placed beyond the reach
of denial, that the phrenologists have been mistaken in
their estimate of the mental capacity possessed by the
aborigines of America. They said, that the heads of
these savages plainly showed, by a bad cerebral develope-
ment, that it was impossible for them to become converts
to the Christian faith ; and with a great parade of learned
phrases, they tried to demonstrate, that the independent
existence and operation of the laws of nature forbade
their being so. The experiment has been tried: Chris-
tianity has been offered to some of these barbarians, and,
notwithstanding the confident predictions of philosophers,
many of them have embraced it.
The same result has followed the preaching of Chris-
tianity to the Foullahs, a tribe of Negroes who are also
esteemed a race with an extremely faulty cerebral organ-
ization.
We have said, that before the phrenologists could
prove what it was their object to demonstrate, it was
necessary for them to show not only that all murderers
and felons whose heads they had examined, had .the
organs of the animal faculties more strongly developed
than those of the moral sentiments and intellect ; but
also, that the ·head of no one good man was ever so
shaped. If it could be shown, that a good man had ever
existed with a skull so formed, the phrenological theory
would be at an end. The evidence before this Parlia-
mentary Committee, has gone further than this. It has
019111zed by Goog!e..
--'--i.~·--~
MORAL FACULTIES OF MA'N. 121
proved, that many individuals, who, by the axioms of
phrenology, ought to have been unable to adopt Chris-
tianity, have adopted it, and shown, by a change in their
tempers and their lives, that they have adopted it in
truth and sincerity.
Messrs. Combe and Simpson tell us, that the human
•
understanding cannot resist evidence founded on obser-
vation; and certainly, that man might well be looked on
as a· singular being who should say that it could. It
J'.llay, nevertheless, very justly, and very properly, refuse
to admit the truth of theories founded upon a hasty and
rash generalization of facts. Such a theory we hold that
of phrenology to be. We say, that it presents an imper-
fect and faulty explanation ofthe phenomena of thinking;
and that its conclusions are overthrown by evidence, ·
the force of which it is impossible to resist. We
say, that it is essentially refuted by the evidence given
before this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry; and
that its advocates cannot escape from the difficulty, unless
. they prove, that the testimony of the respectable and
credible men then examined, was altogether false.
Another purpose to which Mr: Combe puts his dis-
covery about the laws of nature, is to prove by it the
hereditary transmission of mental faculties.
ON THE HEREDITARY TRANSMISSION OF MENTAL
QUALITIES.
90. It is a well-known fact, that bodily qualities, as
well as liability to certain diseases, are frequently trans-
mitted by descent. The children of a consumptive
parent generally have narrow chests and weak lungs;
122 PHRENOLOGICAL DOCTRINE OF THE
while healthy parents are, for the most part, blessed with
a family remarkable for strength. This law, however~
is by no means invariable ; and we sometimes see the
most capricious deviations from it. The children of the
most robust parents are sometimes cut off by consump-
tion ; while those who are sprung from a weak and
diseased stock, flourish in health and strength to an
extreme old age.
Whatever may be the nature of this law of the here-
ditary transmission of physical capabilities, it must extend
to mental qualities, if phrenology be true. And such
seems to be Mr. Combe's conviction ; for he has tried
hard to prove that the powers of the mind are transmis-_
sible by descent, in the same way as the qualities of the
body.
We say, he has tried hard to prove this; and we now
ptoceed to make a few observations on the way in which
he has acquitted himself of his task.
91. One case he brings forward is certainly most
singularly unfortunate. He cites Captain Franklin, who
says," It has been remarked, I do not know with what
truth, that the half-bred American Indians show more
personal courage than the pure breeds.,,
This testimony is brought to show, 'that the children
of Indian and Europeans parents are an improTement
upon the barbarous race, by their partaking of the quali-
ties of Europeans. But it obviously proves, that the
offspring of such an intercourse is superior to each of its
parents. The hybrid is not only braver than the Indian,
but also than the European parent. If it shows any-
thing at all, therefore, it proves that the child is like
neither parent, but is an improvement upon both. The
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
MOJlAT. FACULTIES OF .NAN. 123
mixture, like some chemical compounds, does not assi-
milate to either of its component parts, but is superior
to each. How, then, does this case demonstrate, that
mental qualities are transmissible by hereditary descent?
Itis clearly calculated to prove the direct contrary, and
to show, that we cannot predict what will be the dispo-
sition of the half-blood, by being acquainted with the
mental qualities of either the Indian or European
progenitor.
Another case which Mr. Combe produces, is the
following:-" A friend told me, that in his youth he
lived in a country in which the gentlemen were much
addicted to hard drinking; and that he, too frequently,
took a part in their revels. Several of his sons, born ,at
that time, although subsequently educated in a very
different moral atmosphere, turned out strongly addicted
to inebriety: whereas the children born after he had
removed to a large town, and formed more correct
habits, were not the victims of this propensity.
" Another individual of superior talents, described
to me the wild and mischievous revelry in which he in-
dulged at the time of his marriage, and congratulated
himself on his subsequent domestication and moral im-
provement. His eldest son, born in his riotous days,
notwithstanding a strictly moral education, turned out a
personification of the father's actual condition at that
time: and his younger children were more moral in pro-
portion as they were removed from the period of vicious
frolics."-pp. 46, 47.
92. Now, if these cases prove anything, they demon-
strate that the sons of intemperate men are invariably
addicted to habits of intemperance. They show that a
D1g1!1zed by Gooo[e
~ 0 _..--....
124 PHRENOLOGICAL DOCTRINE OF THE
man's character for sobriety depends upon that or his
father. Do the phrenologists mean to assert that t}lis is
actually the case; or do they mean us to conclude that
it is anything approaching to the truth ? We maintain,
that there can hardly be a single reader or this book,
who does not know the contrary from his personal expe-
rience. In the last generation, the country gentlemen of
England might, with justice, be called an intemperate,
hard-drinking race. It is said, that Squire Western
himself is scarcely a charicature of the class from which
he is taken. And will any man, with the least preten-
sions to candour, say, that the present country gentlemen,
as a class, are chargeable with this vice? On the con-
trary, they are in general as remarkable for sobriety, as
their fathers were for the corresponding vice.
What, then, becomes of the law of the hereditary
transmission of moral qualities? With this well-known
fact staring us in the face, are we to conclude that it
holds good; on account of some isolated instances brought
forward by Mr. Combe? The supposition is not for
one moment to be thought of, by any one who is
endowed with a reasonable understanding.
This law is also contradicted in a more melancholy
way, by the present condition of the working classes of
Great Britain. For they are but too evidently more
addicted to intemperance than were their fathers. As
the gentry have improved in their habits, the labouring
men have deteriorated. This mournful fact, of the
increased and increasing intemperance of the lower
classes, is proved by parliamentary returns, and all the
evidence of which such a thing is capable. Divers
t11eories may be made to account for it. It most pro-
D1g1!1zed by G6og[e
.MORAL FACULTIES OF MAN. 125
bably originates from the deficiency, or rather total
want, of moral and religious education ; as well as from
the increased temptations which the present mode of
employing the operatives throws in their way. One
thing, however, is clearly certain, that it gives a death-
blow to the theory of the hereditary transmission of
moral qualities. It shows that they, as well as animal
propensities, are not dependant upon descent, but upon
other causes.
98. A third instance is the following: "A lady
possessing a large brain and active temperament, was
employed professionally as a teacher of music. Her
husband also had a fine temperament, and a well con-
stituted brain, but his talents for music were only
moderate. They had several children, all of whom were
produced while the mother was in the full practice of her
profession, and the whole now indicate superior musical
abilities. .They have learned to play on several instru-
ments as if by instinct, and highly excel. In this case, the
original endowments of the mother, and her actual exer-
cise of them, conspired to transmit them to her children."
We should say, that the mother's actual exercise of her
musical endowments, was the sole cause of the pro-
ficiency of her children in them. These children, from
their infancy, would hear the practice of music talked
of as a pleasant and honourable employment; they would
be surrounded by musical instruments; they would, as
it were, live in an atmosphere of music. What, then,
so likely, as that they would acquire a fondness for it?
What so probable, . as that one of their occupations
would be, an eft'ort to produce musical sounds? They
saw their mother derive credit,·applause, and pleasure
--.
126 PHRENOLOGICAL DOCTRINE OF THE
from her skill in music ; they would, therefore, do
their best to imitate her : and this strong effort of
theirs, is quite sufficient to account for their subsequent
proficiency.
94. We say that this is the most probable way of
accounting for these children's love of harmony; because
we know, that in the cases of men distinguished for
ability in particular arts or sciences, their sons have not
by any means inherited their talents or genius. We
find Sir Walter Scott, in his letters which Mr. Lockhart
has recently published, repeatedly congratulating him-
self that none of his children showed a taste for poetry.
The phrenologists, we imagine, will be ready enough to
acknowledge, that all the organs which go to constitute
the poetic character, were largely developed in the head
of this illustrious man ; and his children were born at a
time when these organs were in active operation. How
is it, then, that they are not developed in his offiq>ring?
If there be any truth in this law of hereditary transmis-
sion of mental faculties, they certainly ought to be: and
the fact that they are not, goes strongly to prove the
non-existence of such a law.
Other eminent poets of Britain, also, are marri~
and have sons, but we never heard that these children,of
illustrious sires are remarkable for possessing the qualities
in the exercise of which their parents excel.
The second Earl of Chatham, again, was the son of
the first, but it is scarcely possible to imagine two men
whose characters are more opposite than were theirs.
The first excelled all men in energy and decision ; while
the second was lamentably remarkable for procrastina-
tion and indecisiven.ess. How, then, stands the law of
Digitized by Google
.
MORAL FACULTIES OF MAN. 1~
hereditary descent of mental qualities in this case ? In
the same situation as in most others ; for it has no
existence.
95. We need not, however, pursue this singular
theory further, for Mr. Combe himself acknowledgeS,
that the subject is still involved in obscurity. This
obscurity he ascribes to ignorance of the functions of the
brain ; but anticipates that the time will come, when the
principles of phrenology will be fully practised.
This mode of speech he appears to adopt, from a
certain misgiving as to the effect which the present utter
absenceofeverything like evidence ofthe hereditary trans-
mission of mental and moral qualities must have upon
the fortunes of phrenology. He, in the first place, tries.
to surmount the difficulty, by an attempt to prove the
existence of the law ; and, afterwards, perceiving the
futility of the effort, endeavours to get out of the embar-
rassment by a promise of future enlightenment.
Whence, however, is the light to arise? As for
looking for it from increased knowledge of the functions
of the brain, the bare supposition is absurd. For, how
is the most complete acquaintance with the contents of the
skull, to alter the diversity which is so often seen to exist
between the dispositions of parent and child? While this
difference exists, not all the knowledge which physiol~
gists are able to contribute, can in the least tend to
remove the difficulty.
Mr. Combe feels that, if phrenology be true, there
ought to be an uniform similitude between the disposi-
tions of parent and child ; and, if this be not found to
be the case, the boasted science must fall to the ground.
He and other phrenologists tell us, that it is not their
o,9,11zed_byGoogle _
-·
128 PHRENOLOGICAL DOCTRINF. OF THE
object to rear a system from ambitious motives, but that
they are merely announcers of the truth, as it is to be
discovered by observation of nature. l£ this be their
character, Mr. Combe has now an opportunity of show-
ing it, by confessing, that at this point the theory fails;
for it does not account for the phenomena of nature.
Mr. Combe, however, does not pursue so candid a
course, but makes himself a hole to creep out at, by
declaring that the discrepancy arises from all past obser-
vations having been made in ignorance of the facts of
phrenology. Does he, then, mean to assert, that it is
impossible for a man accurately to observe the phenomena
of nature, unless he knows the law on which they depend?
Were men ignorant of the rise and fall of the tide, till
Newton showed that they depended upon the position of
the moon in her orbit ? Was the rising and setting of
the sun concealed from men's knowledge, while they were
ignorant that it was caused by the diurnal rotation of the
earth upon its axis ?
As these facts were known before the discovery of
the law on which they depended, so would men have
perceived the similarity of the son's disposition to that of
bis parent, if there had been any uniform likeness be-
tween them. This circumstance is one fact, and the
assumed connexion between the faculties of the mind and
the organs of the brain, is another fact. They may, or
may not, be connected together; but it cannot be denied
that the existence of the one might be perceived without
a knowledge of the other.
Not only, however, has a constant similarity not been
perceived ; but the dissimilarity is often so great, as to
strike the most careless observer. We have, therefore,
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
MORAL FACULTIF.8 OF MAN. 129
a right to conclude, that no proof has yet been brought
fotward sufficient to establish the hereditary transmission
of mental qualities.
96. This subject seems to have been already more
than sufficiently discussed : before, however, we leave it,
we shall notice one application of Mr. Combe's boasted
discovery, which is pre-eminent for its exquisite absurdity.
He says, "Until phrenology was discovered, no natural
index to mental qualities, that could safely be relied on,
was possessed; and each individual, in directing his
conduct, was left to the guidance of his own sagacity.
But the natural law never tended one iota to accommo-
date itself to that state of ignorance. Men suffered from
unsuitable alliances; and they will continue to do so
until they shall avail themselves of the means of judging
afforded by phrenology, and act in accordance with its
dictates."
We have heard of a man who wished to test the
temper of a young lady whom he admired, asking her to
play at chess, and, when she was losing the game, con-
triving to tread upon her foot, and it is much to be
regretted that this prudent youth was not a phrenologist; ·
for then he might have had a more scientific, though·
we doubt whether a surer mode of gaining the desired
information. But is Mr. Combe not able to perceive, that
the evil for which he is so anxious to provide a remedy,
is occasioned by the improper motives with which people
contract marriages, not by any difficulty they have in
discovering the character of their future partners? It
is because men form alliances for the sake of money, or
rank, or some other thing of the same sort, that unhappy
marriages are contracted. Of what use, then, can this
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
130 MORAL FACULTIES OF MAN.
boasted examination of the skull be in the affair?
Clearly not of the least. All that can be said in its
favour is, that it is just as useful as any other application
of phrenology.
We now take leave of Mr. Combe's discovery of the
independent existence and operation of the laws of
nature; and we must confess, that we are very far from
agreeing with Mr. Simpson in his estimate of its im-
portance. In some cases its applications are useless,
and in others pernicious; but we have been totally
unable to perceive an instance, in which it can be pro-
ductive of benefit to any human creature. Its applica-
bility to education may be better estimated, after we
have discussed that important subject.
Digitized by Google
131
CHAPTER VI.
ON THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED TO THE WANTS
OF THE UPPER CLASSES OF SOCIETY.
91. Right ejlucation of these c1- even more important than that of
the working orden. 98. The education of the English professional
men, on the whole, good. 99. Phrenologists wish entirely to
change it. 100. In education, the foundation ought to be propor-
tioned to the superetl'llctare which it is intended to raise. 101.
Main object of education to discipline the mind. 102. If good
mental ·habits are not acquired in early youth, they never ilAn be
acquired. 103--105. Value of accurate knowledge shown in the cue
of those who raise themselves by the force of genius. 106. Early
study of La.tin and Greek languages recommended. 107-111.
Various reasous why Greek ought to be studied. 112. Reaeons for
the study of La.tin. 113-118. Testimonies of eminent men in
'· favour of a classical education. Milton. Mr. WhewelL Lord
Brougham. Sir R. Peel. Sir W. Scott. Sir James Mackintosh.
Coleridge. 119. Power of attention weakened by exclusively
learning popular sciences. 120. Use of emulation in education.
121. Study of mathematics not to be neglected. 122. Though no&
calculated to give expertness in detecting fallacies. 123. Super•
ficial nature of the phrenologists' system of education. 124. Not
calculated to give the pupil a philosophical mode of thinkiug.
125. Information supplied by it defective and partial.
97. HowxvxR important the right education of the
great mass of the people may appear in the eyes of every
philanthropist, its consequence becomes immensely in-
creased, when it is considered in connexion with that of
the other classes of the community. For if a bad
system of tuition should be adopted by the legislature
for the instruction or its working population, while that
pf the upper imd middle ranks remained sound and good,
the latter.could not be. prevented froµi having a whole.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
182 THE EDUCATION .BEST ADAPTED
some and rectifying influence on the former. The false
notions, and loose and illogical conclusions of the work-
ing orders, would, by a thousand unobserved channels,
be corrected by the precise ideas and just deductions of
those who must continue to modify their habits of
thought. Should such a state of things unfortunately
prevail in any country, it would no doubt occasion
much mischief and great disorder. Still, however, the
mischief would not be irreparable, nor the disorder
desperate. Civilization would not deteriorate and finally
disappear. Knowledge is power, and the greater and
more correct knowledge might be expected, in the long
run, to prevail, and not suffer the whole human race a
second time to descend into ages of darkness.
But, if a false and unsound system of education
should spread itself over a whole country; if a shallow
infom1ation were to be universally diffused over a land,
and no wells were to be left from which deeper draughts
of knowledge might be drawn; in that case, there would
be little reason to hope for an improved state of things.
It might be confidently expected, that an age of sciolists
would be succeeded by a generation still more superficial
than themselves; till, at length, means would be wanting
among such a people to verify the theorems which their
ancestors had discovered ; and the nation would dege-
nerate into ignorance and barbarism. The salt which·
might have prevented the mass from putrefying would
be taken away, and no vivifying principle be left to
restore soundness to that which was decaying.
98. Now, whatever may be thought of the intel-
lectual and moral condition of the working population of
this country; and whatever may be said of the negli-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 183
gence which has been but too much exhibited towards
their condition, the same cannot be predicated of the
English professional men. The philosophers, lawyers,
physicians, and divines ofEngland,have not, on the whole,
been behind those of any other people; ·and it may be
sufficient praise of English statesmen to say, that this
has hitherto been the only nation in which a steady pro-
gress has been making for eight centuries, in liberty and
civilization.
The system by which such men have been formed,
ought not to be rashly broken up, because it may not b~
in accordance with what an untried theory would repre-
sent as the only efficient plan of instruction. It ought,
surely, to be examined, whether there is not, after all,
something in the education which has been hitherto pur-
sued in this oountry, which is calculated to give those
who are trained in it, powers of abstraction and investi-
gation, which it would be difficult to convey as well by
any other mode of instruction.
99. The avowed intention of the phrenologists, is
nothing less than the overthrow of the method of educa-
tion which has hitherto.been followed in the English
schools and universities; and the substituting for it
another plan, founded on their own system of mental
philosophy. That their theory of the mind is not alto-
gether infallible, we think has already been shown; and
this circumstance, of itself, may be a sufficient reason
with many, for not exchanging the present system of
education for one founded on such a basis.
100. The importance of the subject will, we hope,
form an excuse for our discussing it more at large ; and
inquiring as shortly as we can, what constitutes a good
G
- D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
134 THE EDUCATION u;sT ADAPTED
intellectual, moral, and religious education. The patrons
of the projected system of national schools maintain, that
till the age of fourteen, the sons of all the various ranks
in society should be educated on the same system : that
no difference should be made _between the education of
the lad who is probably to pass his future life in manual
labour, and him whose manhood is most likely to be
spent in cultivating his intellect, and increasing his
knowledge.
We must confess, that we cannot see the propriety of
this mode of proceeding. In erecting an edifice, a judi-
cious architect proportions the depth and breadth of the
foundation, to the height of the building which he
intends to raise upon it. He knows that the foundation
which is sufficient to sustain with security a cottage,
would be most likely to give way under the weight of a
castle; and proceeds accordingly, in calculating the
outline of his projected erection.
We have certainly a difficulty in understanding,
why a different plan is to be followed in raising the
edifice of knowledge in the human mind. In this case,
as well as in the other, if a great accumulation of
materials be laid upon a slight and insufficient basis, the
only result will be a vast and confused mass of rubbish.
The possessor of a stock of ideas, acquired in this way,
will not be a well-informed, much less a philosophical
man, but a vain and self-sufficient pedant. There is
certainly a mode of accounting for the phrenologists'
method of proceeding in this matter, but we know not
whether they will receive it as satisfactory :-they have
not made provision for laying any foundation at all;
and, therefore, it matters not to what height the future
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 135
edifice may be intended to be raised. Every possible
elevation will be equally stable and secure.
The necessity of making the foundation proportionate
to the weight of knowledge it is intended to support,
will be more evident, when we have satisfied ourselves
as to the object of education.
101. We consider that it ought not to be the aim
of a wise teacher, to put into the mind of his pupil as
much information as possible ; but to train his intellect
in such a way as to make him a diligent, patient, and
successful inquirer after truth, during the whole of his
future life. He is not to endeavour to send those com-
mitted to his charge from school, with a loose and
general acquaintance with the circle of modem sciences;
but to direct his efforts to freeing the minds of youths
from prejudices, teaching them the strength and weak-
ness of the human understanding, and giving them
habits of attention, abstraction, analysis and investi-
gation, which, unless they are obtained with labour and
diligence at an early period, can never be effectually
acquired at all. He is, in fact, to consider the minds of
his pupils, as instruments of which he is to teach them
the use, and which he is, at the same time, to do his
utmost to improve and perfect..
If, moreover, he succeeds:in his object, it matters
little what the means are.which he employs for effecting it.
Here one science is as useful as another; for if it proves
an instrument by which a youth's mind is sharpened,
strengthened, and rendered solid, the time he has occu-
pied in learning it, may be reckoned well spent, though
he never has occasion directly to use it during the rest of
his existence.
G2
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
}36 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
'l'his statement may appear startling to some, but its
alarming tendency will, perhaps, be diminished on a little
consideration. A rightly educated man is adding to the
stock of his ideas, and increasing his positive knowledge,
during the whole of his life. He is not only doing
this when he reads, and professedly seeks for instruc-
tion; but he is obtaining knowledge from conversation,
and from various events and circumstances which pass
away totally unheeded by one whose curiosity is less
enlightened.
By the habits of arrangement which he has pre-
viously formed, he can readily class the various ideas
with which he thus becomes conversant, under their
proper heads ; and they exist in the storehouse of his
mind, ready to be brought forward whenever an occasion
arises which calls for their exercise. Such a man is also
trained in habits of investigation ; his instinctive desire
of knowledge has been improved and directed to right
objects; and, therefore, whenever a subject comes under
his observation which appears wortl1y of being known,
he does not allow it to pass from his attention, till he •
has acquired concerning it, all the information which-he
can obtain. He will compare it with other facts which
he already knows, satisfy himself concerning the points
in which it agrees with some of them, and differs from
others, and thus gain a knowledge of its relations.
Although, therefore, this person may be despised by
an individual who has been lectured during his boyhood
on the modern sciences, as a man of limited acquirements,
-he will show himself immensely his superior, both in the
appreciation and investigation ot' abstract truth, and the
conducting of the actual business of life. In whatever
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 137
circumstances hi.a future lot may be cast, he will be
ready to avail himself of all the means of improvement
whi.ch his situation affords; and, though he may never
be able to acquire the extent of information on some
subjects which the other possesses, yet that inferiority
will be amply compensated, by the more efficient use
which he will be able to make of what he does know.
102. It should also be remembered, that if the
habits of mind of which we have been speaking are not
cultivated in early youth, they never can be effectually
cultivated at all. The man who, during his early youth
and boyhood, has been popularly taught natural history
and the modem sciences, flatters him~lf that he is
already a philosopher, and cannot bring himself to attend
to methods of inquiry which would teach him the super-
ficial nature of his own acquirements. All that he does
know, he has learned with ease and pleasure to himself;
and, therefore, he turns with loathing from that science
which it requires great labour and application to master.
He consequently prefers to doing this, declaiming on
the absurdity of such methods of proceeding; and in
utter ignorance of true science, maintains that he has
acquired all the knowledge which is usefuL
It is, indeed, very easy to go on adding to the super-
structure of knowledge, when a good foundation has
been laid in youth ; but it is quite another thing, in
years of maturity, to destroy the edifice which has
already been erected, and to build another oil a new and
firmer basis. All the qualities of mind which would aid
us in doing so, have become dull and lethargic from
want of use, and it is impossible to rouse them to any
useful purpose. "A strong curiosity," says Dugald
D1g1!1zed by ~oog[C
]38 THE EDUCATION BEST AOAPTED
Stewart, "properly directed, may be justly considered
one of the most important elements in philosophical
genius; and, accordingly, there is no circumstance of
greater consequence in education than to keep the
curiosity always awake, and to turn it to useful pursuits.
I cannot help, therefore, disapproving greatly of a very
common practice in this country, that of communicating
to children general and superficial views of science and
history, by means of popular introductions. In this way
we rob their future studies of all that interest which can
render study agreeable, and reduce the mind in the
pursuits of science to the same state of listlessness
and languor, .as when we toil through the pages of a
tedious novel after being made acquainted with the final
catastrophe•."
103. The great value of precision of thought and
accuracy of knowledge, is seen in the cases of those
men, who, by the force of great ability and diligence,
have raised themselves from an humble station in society,
to eminence in the world of science and literature. These
individuals are prevented by the narrowness of their
circumstances from purchasing many books, and are,
therefore, compelled to make themselves thoroughly
masters of one work, before they part with it in order to
procure another. '!'heir minds are thus confined to a
narrow channel, and become correspondingly deep and
accurate. While they labour under many and great
difficulties in the acquisition of knowledge, they are, at
least, preserved from the temptation to dissipation of
thought, to which students, otherwise better circum-
stanced, are constantly exposed.
•• Philo6ophy oflhe ..4.clive and Moral Powers.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 139
104. It is, indeed, a much easier as well as pleasanter
employment, to become generally acquainted with many
branches of knowledge, than to acquire a thorough
maste~y of any one in particular. A young man, there-
fore, will always be desirous of novelty in his studies,
and if his tutor will permit him, will gladly range over
the whole circle of science; and flatter himself, that he
is being fitted for the right discharge of the various
duties of society, by his excursive and multifarious
reading.
To the superficial observer, this young man will,
perhaps, appear to have employed his time better, than
his companion who has confined himself to thoroughly
mastering one or two branches of knowledge. His infe-
riority, however, will become evident to all, when he is
placed in a situation of trial or difficulty. He will then
show a want of control over his powers of thinking; he
will be surrounded by a misty vacuity which he is totally
unable to dissipate, and will be incapacitated from fixing
his attention so as to discover a way of escape from his
embarrassment.
And if it be said, that very few, during their pas-
sage through life, are called upon to exercise such powers,
we still maintain, that that is no reason why it should
not be the part of a good education to cultivate them in
the minds of youth. The man who has them, stands a
much fairer chance of happiness than he who has merely
acquired a taste for general and desultory reading. He,
also, undoubtedly is higher in the scale of intellectual
beings; and it cannot be denied that it is one end of
a good education, to raise a man as -much as possible
above the wants and desires of mere animal nature.
.·· .
Digitized by <;oog[e
14() THE EDUCATION BKST ADAPTED
Nothing, again, more contributes to cultivate in the
youthful mind habits of humility and a due estimate of
its own powers, than the inculcation of the great truth,
that no really valuable acquirement can be made without
the exertion of labour and self-restraint. How much
soever we may flatter ourselves of the contrary, there has
yet been discovered no royal road to solid and substan-
tial learning. And ihat system of philosophy which
would' persuade us that there is, is founded in error, and
its only effect must be to raise up a generation of self-
siifficient sciolists, who do not even know enough to be
aware of their own ignorance.
105. Man, also, has a constant tendency to think
only of the material things with which he is surrounded.
The savage has no idea of turning his contemplation
inward upon himself. His senses are gratified by the
objects around him, and he thinks of them merely as
they minister to his gratifieation. His thoughts are
occupied with what is present, and he speculates not on
the past or the future. And the same is the case with
children, who, unless they are taught the contrary, have
no curiosity about what is not immediately present to
their senses. Every man is born a savage, and it is the
part of education to raise him to a state of civilization
and refinement.
And how is this best to be done? Is it by teaching
him while young, that his sole concern is with those
objects in which his own pleasures are involved; or by
directing his attention to the productions of mind, and
leading his thoughts to the consideration of the world of
science or art? Surely, he will be trained up a nobler
and more exalted creature, if his contemplation is fixed
Digitized by Google
TO THE UPPEll CLASSES. 141
on those works of genius by which the history of his
race has been adorned. He may never be able to rival
them, but still his own aoul can be kindled by the fire
·which there blazes, and he may feel his own mind raised
by oommunion with those who have been exalted above
their fellows. ''Whatever," says Dr. Johnson, "with-
draws us from the power of our senses ; whatever makes
the past, the distant, or the future, predominate over the
present, advances us in the dignity of thinking beings."
Therefore we contend, that that system of education is
diligently to be eschewed, which makes the material
world the primary oliject in our thoughts, and tends to
chain us down to a contemplation of those things which
directly administer to our convenience. However exalted
a rank a nation may have in the scale of civilization, if
such a mode of education should ever be prevalent among
them, they will rapidly degenerate and sink to the lowest
depths of barbarism. Each generation will be content
with a more superficial acquaintance with the works of
nature, than was possessed by the one preceding it;
speculative science and precision of thought will be less
and less cultivated, till, at length, every class of society
will be reduced to the same level of ignorance, and the
pursuit or abstract truth utterly disappear.
106. It becomes, therefore, a most important inquiry,
What system of education is best fitted to create an oppo-
site disposition in the mind of a people? What mode
of instruction is most likely to generate in youth, a love
of science for its own sake, and a power of advancing in
the march of scientific discovery ?
We answer, that which takes the abstract sciences
for the basis of its teaching ; and it ought to commence
G3
__...,,.. .. :-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
142 THE EDUCATION BEST ADArTED
with that branch of science which relates to the artificial
forms or symbols by which the mind reasons. In other
words, language is the object to which the mind of that
boy is primarily to be directed, who is intended to be
formed into a right-thinking man. And we, without
hesitation, say, that of all languages which can be chosen
for the purpose, Greek and Latin are immensely the
most eligible.
Why we recommend languages to be taught at the
commencement of education, is well explained by Pro-
fessor Sedgwick, in the following passage of his Dis-
course on the Studies of the University of Cambridge.
" Before I pass on, I may recal to your minds the won-
derful ease with which a child comprehends the conven-
tional signs of thought formed between man and man;
not only learns the meaning of words descriptive of
visible things, but understands by a kind of rational
instinct the meaning of abstract terms, without ever
thinking of the faculty by which he comes to separate
them from the names of m~re objects of sense. The
readiness with which a child acquires a la~guage may
well be called a rational instinct; for during the time that
his knowledge is built up, and that he learns to handle
the instruments of thought, he knows no more of what
is passing within himself, than he does of the structure
of the eye or the properties of light, while he attends to
the impressions on his visual sense, and gives to each
impression its appropriate name. As the memory be-
comes stored with words, and the mind accustomed to
their application, this readiness of verbal acquisition
gradually decays, and at length, with some persons,
almost disappears. That this is true, I need only appeal
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASS.ES. 143
to the experience of those who, after being long disused
to such studies, have attempted to learn a language.
They will tell you of their feelings of m1,mtal drudgery
and intolerable fatigue, during their slow laborio~1s
progress, in acquiring what a child gains without know-
ing how, and a young person learns cheerfully and
without a sense of toil. • • • Our fathers then have
done wisely, and followed nature, in making the study
of languages a part of our earliest discipline."
This passage may be reckoned more than sufficient
to refute the assertion of the phrenologists, " that it is to
mistake the nature and operation of the faculties of the
human mind, to talk of cultivating an instrument of
thought previously to using it in actual thinking*." By
the way we may observe, that it is very difficult to
conceive, how we are to use in actual thinking an instru-
ment of thought which we do not know. Does a child
use his vernacular tongue before he knows it? If he
did, we imagine that he would be more likely to talk
nonsense than the generality of his playmates. But in
truth, seriously to controvert such absurd assertions as
this, is almost as ridiculous as the assertion itself. It is
contradicted by the experience of every man who has
had anything to do, either with teaching or learning
languages. Notwithstanding, therefore, the declarations
of the phrenologists, we shall continue to believe, that
an early period of life is the best time for acquiring this
sort of information.
107. '!'he question now presents itself, why are the
Latin and Greek languages to be those to which the
11tudent's mind is especially directed? The Greek tongue
• 8IXPSON'8 Philolophg o/Eclvcation.
- ·:·
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
144 THE .EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
is universally represented by all who are acquainted with
it, as the most perfect instrument of thought which has
ever yet been invented or used by man. When, there-
fore, we consider the very great influence which language
has over our ideas, this, of itself, must be a ,·ery cogent
reason for teaching it in our schools and universities.
The Greek authors, moreover, are eminent above all
others, for carefulness in the choice of words, and skill
in the collocation of them. In these respects, they are
separated by an immense interval from the writers of
other nations; and in many species of composition
rivalry with them has not even been attempted. The
shades of meaning between the expressions which they
use, are so nicely distiuguished, that it is impossible to
render them in any translation; and the study of them
is, consequently, one of the best possible exercises for
obtaining subtlety of analysis and accuracy of thinking.
It is said, that "the ancient authors themselves are
all translated, to the oomplete and undeniable appro-
priation of everything but certain felicitous turns of
expression, the only quality which translation cannot
transfer, but which at its best is a luxury, too dearly
purchased by exclusive study for one-fourth of a life·
time*."
108. There are, however, many things which it is
impossible to give in a translation, besides certain
felicitous turns of expression. In all languages, there
are idiomatic expressions which cannot be transferred
into any other. To render accurately the meaning of
one little word, the whole history of a people must some-
times be known. No two languages contain strictly
• SJKPSON on Education.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 145
equipollent words, even when they are used by nations
which are cotemporary and neighbouring; but how
much more must this be the case with the languages of
people, differing so widely in every respect as the Gre-
cian and English ? To say, therefore, that_ reading an
author in a translation, conveys the same informatipn
as reading him in the original, merely betrays great
ignorance of the subject.
If, therefore, it be worth a man's while to becOme
acquainted with the most perfect models of composition
in poetry, oratory, history, and philosophy, he must
consent to learn the language in which they have been
written; for in no other way can he possibly know them.
109. And it may with confidence be said, that the
labour he undergoes to effect this object, brings with it
its own reward. It constitutes one of the best disciplines
to which his mind can be subjected. It is declared by
the phrenologists, that all languages exercise but one
faculty, viz., verbal memory; but, surely, the man who
seriously thinks so, must know very little of the subject
'"on which he professes to teach others. ·
Is no faculty but verbal memory called into exercise,
when we trace the historical meaning of a word through
the successive authors by whom it has been used; and
endeavour to discover the reasons for the various mean-
ings which in its progress it has assumed? Is it verbal
memory which is alone used, when we inquire into the
influence which the religion, civil polity, or domestic
customs of a people, had on an expression, the meaning
of which we wish accurately to determine? Are not
· other faculties called into exercise, when we compare this
expression with an analogous one in our own language?
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
-··
14.6 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
110. What pursuit, again, we would ask, is more
likely to free us from national, local, or educational pre-
judices, than the philosophical study of language? It
inevitably brings us acquainted with the way in which a
people, widely differing from ourselves, thought upon
those subjects which are most interesting to human
beings; and, consequently, induces us to consider and
examine if our own opinions are based upon a firm and
rational foundation.
111. The peculiar position of the Greeks, also, in
the history of civilization, as well as their achievements
in science and the arts, must always make them a sub-
ject for profitable and interesting contemplation. They
united in themselves, the speculative and contemplative
habits of the oriental, with the practical sagacity of the
western nations ; and the blending of these two seem-
ingly opposite qualities, produced a refined excellence in
their literature, which it is vain to look for in the works
of any other people.
Their architecture formed in itself a complete idea,
perfect in all its parts, and exactly fitted to the end it .
was intended to produce and fulfil.
It may be said, that we can study the remains of
their buildings without being at the trouble of learn-
ing their language. But can we thus enter into the
spirit and actuating principle by which such works were
erected? Unless we make ourselves acquainted with
the tone and temper of the people's minds, and the end
to which their efforts were directed, we must be totally
unfit for conceiving the ideality of the wonderful con-
structions which the Greeks have left us.
Nor was the taste of this people less remarkable in
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CL.ASSES. 147
their literary productions, than in their works of statuary
and architecture. lo almost every department of genius,
they have left behind them perfect models of excellence.
Many of their writers are equally remarkable for the
exactness of their logic, the perfectness of their arrange-
ment, the felicity of their illustration, and the beauty of
their style. If, then, it be true, that the faculties of the
mind are best trained by exercise and practice, what
pursuit can be so fitted for the educating of them as the
study of these immortal works? And it is absurd to
say, that this end can be accomplished by reading trans-
lations of these compositions. If we would strengthen
our powers of mind, and invigorate our faculties, we
must enter into the spirit of each; we must make our-
selves thoroughly acquainted with them; and this can
only be done by studying and meditating upon them in
the original.
112. Concerning the propriety and usefulness of
learning the Latin language, it may be sufficient to
observe, that it was not only the tongue spoken and
written at Rome, but that it also formed the living
language of the literary men of Europe, for several
centuries. The indiscriminate censure which it was at
one time the habit to cast upon the middle ages, is now
rapidly giving place to a juster appreciation of the
authors who flourished in them; and we must remember,
that not only the writers of those times, if read at all,
must be studied in the Latin language, but that modem
tongues did not begin to be generally used in scientific
treatises, till the end of the seventeenth century.
Newton's Principia is written in Latin.
However much, therefore, self-sufficient men of the
- ·... o,9,11zed by Google
]48 THE EDUCATlON •EST'ADAPTED
present day may sneer at the barbarism of making a boy
waste his time in learning Latin, his teachers may be
satisfied, that by so doing they put within his hands, a
key to an extensive and interesting field of knowledge,
which otherwise would be hermetically sealed to bis
inquiries.
113. We now come to another argument, put for-
ward by the modem doctors of education, on this subject.
They say, that all the abler IJlen who have written upon
education, have condemned the system of teaching, in
schools, Latin and Greek ; that no reason can be given
for the continuance of it; but that it is persisted in,
entirely because certain influential individuals conceive
their interest and reputation to be involved in it.
Mr. Simpson has, with very chivalrous hardihood,
cited the mighty name of Milton as confirmatory of his
own views on education. This testimony must have been
brought forward by that gentleman, under the notion,
that none of his readers would trouble themselves with
perusing so old-fashioned a book, as the Tractate on
E:ducation, addressed, to Ma8ter Samuel Hartlib.
}'or in that celebrated composition the poet directs,
"that they (the boys) should begin with the chief and
necessary rules of some good grammar, either that now
used, or any better: and while this is doing, their speech
is to be fashioned to a distinct and clear pronunciation,
as near as may be to the Italian, especially in the vowels.
For we Englishmen being far northerly, do not open our
mouths in the cold air, wide enough to grace a southern
tongue; but are observed by all other nations to speak
exceeding close and inward ; so that to smatter Latin
with an English mouth, is as ill a hearing as law French.
o,9,11ze byGoogle
TO THE UPPER CLASSES.
Next, to make them expert in the usefullest paints of
grammar, and withal to season them and win them early
to the love of virtue and true labour, ere any Battering
inducement or vain principle seize them wandering;
some easy and delightful book of education should be
read to them; whereof the Greeks have store, as Cebes;
Plutarch, and other Socratic discourses."
We hope, therefore, that we shall not again hear the
most sublime of poets, and one of the greatest of men,
brought forward as a patron of the phrenological plan of
education. The advocates of it, indeed, must have been
sadly in want of an argument in its favour, when they
betook themselves to the Tractate on Education.
114. To pass from Milton to authors of more recent
date: Mr. Whewell, of Trinity College Cambridge, has
lately published a work on the Principks of English
Univerrity Education. He must be allowed, by all
who are acquainted with the literary or philosophi~
world, to be at least as able to estimate the merits of
modern science as an instrument of education, as Mr.
Simpson, Mr. George Combe, or Dr. Caldwell. What,
then, is his testimony on the subject? He strongly
advocates the study of the Greek and Latin classics,
and the principles of mathematics, as the most likely
means of imparting to. youth, just and manly habits of
thought.
We refer to his work for the arguments by which he
supports his views; and shall only mention here one
reason why he considers the study of the Greek and
Latin classics; as essential to a thoroughly liberal
education.
He argues, that modern literature is so imbued with
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
150 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
the spirit of the ancient, that it is impossible thoroughly
to understand the first without being acquainted with
the second. "In thought and language," he says, "as
well as in arts and products of art, we inherit an inesti-
mable fortune from a long line ofancestors. But thoughts
can be inherited, and words, in all their force, trans-
mitted, only by those who are connected with their
ancestors in the line of thought and understanding, as
well as in the mere succession of time. And how is this
connexion of generations, thus requisite to the transmis-
sion and augmentation of mental wealth, to be kept
up? We conceive, that it can only be effectually main-
tained by thoroughly imbuing the minds of all who
,make pretensions to a liberal education, with that litera-
ture from which the chief part of our intellectual wealth
is derived."
" The languages of ancient Greece and Rome,"
Mr. Whewell again obsenes, " have, through the whole
history of civilization, been the means of giving distinct-
ness to men's ideas of the analogy of language, which
distinctness, as we have seen, is a main element of intel-
lectual cultivation. The forms and processes of general
grammar have been conveyed to all men's minds by the
use of common models and common examples. To all
the nations of modern Europe, whether speaking a
Romance language or not, the Latin grammar is a
standard of comparison, by reference to which speculative
views of grammar become plain and familiar."
116. Mr. Whewell may be reckoned by the ad-
vocates of the new system of education, prejudiced and
influenced by bis situation, and therefore not a fair judge
on the subject. But what will these gentlemen say to
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE U.PPER CLASSES. 151
Lord Brougham and Sir Robert Peel ? These eminent
statesmen, on many of the most foteresting questions of
the day, entertain and advocate directly opposite opi-
nions; but they join in recommending the study of the
Greek and Roman literature, as the most efficient means
for rightly disciplining the mind. They have both been
Rectors of the University of Glasgow; and each ofthem,
when he was elected, made a formal address to the stu-
dents, in which he strongly recommended to his hearers,
to make themselves thoroughly acquainted with these
literlltures.
These two statesmen are both remarkable for the
possession of' great natural abilities, and for successful
cultivation of them; are we then to conclude, that they
are entirely mistaken as to the means they used for effect-
ing this object~ Or are we to think, that they wished
to stunt the minds of' the rising generation, and cause
their own death to be regretted, as leaving a void in
society which it will be impossible to supply? The
p~renologists, we suppose, will consider, that these two
famous men " afford a striking proof of an ignorant
custom enthralling an imperfectly educated people;" in
recommending that sort of education to the students of
Glasgow University, which has been discovered to be a
loss of time and waste of labour.
116. Lord Brougham and Sir Robert Peel have
spoken of the study of the Greek and Roman literatures
as men who, by their own experience, have felt their
good effects upon the minds of those who diligently cul-
tivate them. The next authority we shall cite on the
subject, is.that of an equiilly eminent man, who through-
out his life regretted, that an imperfect education had
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
-
152 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
deprived him of the advantage. We allude to Sir
Walter Scott; and refer to his Life by Mr. Lockhart, for
proof of our assertion. It appears from letters of Scott,
published in that work, that he felt ·the imperfectness
of his acquaintance with classical literature, to be a
deficiency which he could not supply by any exertions
in after-life. Whether he was right or wrong in this
opinion, it is not for us to decide; but we certain}y think,
that we are justified by it in citing Sir w·alter, as an
authority for the propriety of making the literatures of
Greece and Rome, subjects of early education.
117. The next individual whose opinion we shall
bring forward is Sir James Mackintosh, who says, in bis
Lectures on the Law of Nature and Nations, " I am
not one of those who think that, in the system of Eng-
lish education, too much time and labour are employed
in the study of the languages of Greece and Rome; it
is a popular, but, in my humble opinion, a very shallow
and vulgar objection. It would be easy, I think, to
prove that too much time can scarcely be employed on
these languages, by any nation which is desirous of pre-
serving either that purity of taste, which is its brightest
ornament, or that purity of morals, which is its strongest
bulwark. You may be sure, gentlemen, that I am not
going to waste your time by expanding the common-
places of panegyric on classical learning. I shall not
speak of the necessity of recurring to the best models for
the formation of taste. When any modern poets or
orators shall have excelled Homer and Demosthenes;
and when any considerable number of unlettered modem
writers (for I have no concern with extraordinary excep-
tions) shall have attained eminence, it will be time
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
·•
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 158
enough to discuss the question. But I entreat you to
consider the connexion between classical learning and
morality, which I think as real and as close as its con-
nexion with taste, although I do not find that it has been
so often n.oticed•."
This enlightened philosopher, therefore, is also to be
classed among those individuals who, on account of the
estimation in which they boJd classical learning, are
denounced by the phrenologists as foolish aQd prejudiced
people.
118. The last testimony we shall bring forward on
the subject is that of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, whose
authority will be reckoned slight by no one, who is
capable of appreciating bis claims to the character of a
profound and original thinker. "One constant blunder,"
(I find it so pencilled by Mr. C., on a blank page of my
copy of the Bubbles fr<>m the Brunnem,) " of these
New Broomers, these Penny l\fagazine sages and philan-
thropists, in reference to our public schooJs, is to con-
fine their views to what schoolmasters teach the boys,
with entire oversight of all that the boys are excited
to learn from each other and of them~lves, with more
geniality, even because it is not a part of their com-
pelled school knowledge. An Eton boy's knowledge
of the St. Lawrence, Mississippi, Missouri, Orellana,
&c., will be generally found in exact proportion to
his knowledge of the Ilissus, Hebrus, Orontes, &c. ;
inasmuch as modern travels and voyages are more
entertaining and fascinating than Cellarius; or Robinson
Ci:u!IOC, Dampier, and Captain Cook, than the Periegesis.
·Compare the lads themselves from Eton, Harrow, &c.,
• Memoir1 qfSir Jamu Maokimoah, vol. i. p. 117.
Digitized by Google
- ·
154 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
with the alumni of the New Broom Institution, and not
the lists of school lessons; and be that comparison the
criterion•."
119. In our opinion, this passage puts the subject
of education in a right point of view. It shows what
ought to be the aim of teachers, by pointing out the
effects which different modes of tuition may be expected
to have on the mental habits and pursuits of the pupils.
The lad who has been trained in a system which makes
the inculcation of popular views of modern discoveries
its grand object, feels a total inaptitude for giving the
attention requisite for acquiring a knowledge of abstract
science. There is, in such pursuits, nothing striking
enough to engage his curiosity. There does not appear
to him, any result sufficient to recompense him for the
labour necessary to obtain it. In his own opinion, he has
become amply acquainted with all the wonders of natural
philosophy, by a much easier process; and, therefore,
he ridicules the folly of those who give themselves the
trouble of investigating into reasons and first principles.
Above all, does he laugh at those who spend a consider-
able time in acquiring an exact knowledge of the Latin
and Greek languages. These people he reckons to be
much inferior to himself, in useful information ; and he
would be much surprised to hear, that they had acquired
that knowledge, by way of amusement aod relaxadon,
which to him had been the main bu~iness of life.
It need hardly be inquired, which of these young
men is likely to have the best disciplined mind, or the
most distinct and precise ideas; and it is equally un-
necessary to ask, which would be more qualified to dis-
• CoLBRIDOB's Tabla Talk, note in vol. ii. p. 224.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 155
cover effectual means of extricating himself from a
situation of real difficulty.
120. The passage we have quoted from Mr. Cole-
ridge, is also valuable as setting forth the true use of the
principle of emulation in education. It may be ques-
tionable whether this principle ought to be called into
action in the direct business of instruction ; though in
this case, we think that its bad effects are much over-
rated, and that it very seldom degenerates into envy, or
creates feelings of positive dislike between rivals. There
is, however, much less room for the abuse of emulation,
when it merely serves to strengthen the principle of
curiosity in the mutual intercourse of the pupils with
each other. When one lad sees that another is better
acquainted than himself with some subject of general
interest, he feels desirous of knowing as much as his
friend, and consequently seeks, by every available mean!!,
to increase his own information. No method, also, con-
tributes more to the end he has in view, than conversa-
tion about the subject in question, with those of his
companions who know more about it than himself. He
thus, in the most effectual way, fixes what he has
recently learned in his mind; he is led also to perceive
his own deficiency, and to resort to those sources of
knowledge which are most likely to gratify his awakened
curioE!ity..
121. We have hitherto spoken of that branch of
science which relates to the artificial symbols of thought;
and have endeavoured to point out, how much the study
of it tends to strengthen, improve, and sharpen the facul-
ties, by accustoming the mind to habits of analysis,
abstraction, comparison, and reflection.
Digitized by Google
}56 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
We would, however, by no means be understood as
wishing to exclude from a system of education the study
of mathematics. " In mathematics," Mr. Whewell
says, " the student is rendered familiar with the most
perfect examples of strict inference; compelled habitually
to fix his attention on those conditions on which the
cogency of the demonstration depends; and, in the
mistaken or imperfect attempts at demonstration, made
by himllE'lf or others, he is presented with examples of
the most natural fallacies, which he sees exposed and
corrected."
122. With the opinions contained in the first part
of this sentence we perfect!y agree; but we cannot say,
that we so cordially assent to the assertion with which it
concludes. We do not, for ourselves, think that mis-
takes in mathematical demonstration, present instances
of the most natural fallacies, or of those which most fre-
quently occur in treatises on morals, politics, or theology.
In mathematics there is no danger of error from neg-
lecting to use your terms in a strict and definite sense;
and there is no more fertile source of mistake in the con-
ducting of arguments, than the ambiguous meaning of
words•. Many other errors also may be mentioned
which the practice of mathematical reasoning does not, of
itself, enable a man to detect and avoid.
A system of education, however, which has con-
tributed to give a young man habits of fixed attention,
and has accustomed him to examine accurately each link
of the chain of a demonstration, must be considered as
having benefited him in no slight degree. Thus the
• See on this subject the excellent Chapter on Fallacies, in WllATll·
LEY'& Logic.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE Ul'PER CLASSES. 157
study of mathemati£s most efficiently performs, and
therefore we would by no means have it neglected, or
set aside.
123. The phrenologists make loud and confident
professions, that theirs is the only system of education
which aims at improving the mental faculties; and that
all others are perfectly useless for effecting such a pur-
pose. They tell us, that before they rose to enlighten
the world, people never considered what was the specific
object of education; but went on, following the track of
their fathers, without ever thinking of the place to which
it conducted them. They moreover proclaim, that having
at length discovered the true constitution of the human
mind, they have constructed a scheme of instruction con-
formable to it ; and made it so perfect, that all other
methods ought to be compelled by law to yield to its
pretensions, and every class of society be forced to submit
their children to a process, by means of which they may
be raised in the scale of thinking beings, and brought
to a standard of perfection which has never yet been
approached by man.
Our readers may well desire accurately to know what
this system really is ; and they will perhaps be surprised
to learn, that it makes no provision whatever for giving
habits of attention, improving the reflective powers, or
imparting skill in the detection of fallacies.
The views of the phrenologists may be best dis-
cerned, by seeing what one of the most authoritative
advocates of their system says about the study of mathe-
matics, (of course he totally and utterly condemns the
study of Greek and Latin). "There is," says he, "no
occasion to go deeply into mathematics; but some know-
n
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
]58 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
ledge, in addition to that of the elementary figures, im-
parted in the infant school, of angles, triangles, squares,
parallelograms, perpendiculars, horizontals, &c., of the
relations of these, and of the demonstration of these rela-
tions, may be given to the more advanced classes of the
seminary. The grand object with regard to all these
branches of study ought to be-and the aid of able
men will be necessary to sketch out the plan for each--
to render the teaching of the subject or science elemen-
tarily broad and comprehensive, leaving minute details
for after voluntary study. For example, in geometry,
the study should not be some books of Euclid, and then
a stop, but a general notion of the science as applied to
planes and solids, as a basis for after detailed study;
sufficient, however, to render the subject intelligible, and
of easy application to the avocations of future life, in
surveying, carpentry, &c., and easily extended when
more minute information is wanted*."
We suppose that the youths who have undergone
this beautiful system of training, will reckon themselves
grounded in the principles of mathematics. What, how-
ever, will they know about them ? Will they be at all
acquainted with the peculiar strictness with which one
link in a chain of mathematical reasoning depends on
that which precedes it? Will they be informed of the
cause of this strictness? It is not even intended to teach
them any such antiquated knowledge. By being so in-
structed, their time would be almost as much wasted, as
if they learned Latin and Greek. The grand object of
the system is, to render the teaching of the subject or
• SUU'llON's Philoaoph!J of Education.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 159
science elementarily broed and comprehensive; leaving
minute details for after voluntary study.
We would rather say, that the grand object of the
whole system, is to turn out a race of superficial and
self-sufficient sciolists, who would, by their dogmatic
assertion and real ignorance, be a perfect nuisance to
every society which was afflicted with their presence.
Perhaps a method of tuition could not possibly be con-
trived, more calculated to defeat the objects of a really
liberal education. It seems ingeniously adapted to c»
stroy, or smother, that desire of knowledge which is
implanted in the mind of every man ; to disable a person
from comprehending or attending to a chain of strict
reasoning; and to generate in his understanding, con-
fused and indistinct notions of the objects submitted to
his apprehension. In fact, if an individual, educated
according to this system, ever takes the trouble to ac-
quire a thorough knowledge of anything, it must be by
his being able, through natural vigour of intellect, to
throw off the trammels of a vicious tuitioo.
124. From the specimen we have above given, and
some incidental notices we have previously made, an
idea may be formed of the sort of education which it is
the object of the phrenologists to impose upon the youth
of these realms. It mainly consists of lessons in subjects
of natural history. Specific information is given on the
composition of different substances, by the teacher of the
school; and the pupil's attention is excited, by the in-
struction being conveyed in the most amusing way.
And in the same manner as the qualiti~s of leather or
india-rubber are taught, so is a k~owledge imparted to
the students, of the phrenological theory.of the human
H2
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
160 THE EDUCATION JIEST ADAPTED
mind. No more doubt is allowed to be entertained on
the latter subject, than on the former. The pupil's un-
hesitating faith is demanded by the teachers of a system
of mental philosophy, which a great proportion of think-
ing men consider unsound and empirical.
It will be seen, that no provision is made for giving
the student a philosophical mode of thinking. He is said,
indeed, to be taught natural philosophy; but it is a
much more appropriate way of speaking to affirm, that
he is loosely instructed in natural history. He is made
acquainted with the specific qualities of particular sub-
stances, but he is not instructed in their mutual relations
with each other. The system has just as little to do
with causes and effects, as with reasons and conclusions.
The pupil's mind is made a receptacle for a number of
detached facts, but he is not taught to look for any law
by which they are mutually connected with each other.
His head is filled with a miscellaneous assemblage of
articles, like the store-room ofa pawnbroker; but he may
leave the seminary without having any just notions of
natural philosophy, or being made acquainted with the
mode in which its various propositions are bound together
by a common law. The characteristics of the system -
are, desultoriness and superficiality; and, if pursued to
any extent, its undoubted effect would be, entirely to
unfit the mind for thoroughly mastering any one branch
of human knowledge.
That the system is chargeable with this grievous
defect, seems to have struck the mind of its str.enuous
advocate, Mr. Simpson; and he endeavours to get rid
of the objection in the following passage:-" Although
the reflective powers are in frequent requisition inciden-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE UPPER CLASSES. 161
tally in our curriculum, the knowing are chiefly in exer-
cise in storing up knowledge and gaining address, and
there is no period of life when they are in greater
vigour than at and about puberty. It will not be a
smattering which will be gained ;" and this-is another
objection ; it is forgotten that besides the infant-school
grounding, eight years are proposed to be devoted to the
advanced school course ; " under competent instructors,
no branch will be permitted to be superficially attained;
there is time, and there ought to be the means, to render
the acquisition of each subject complete up to the pitch
of the pupil's powers. It is under the present system
that every thing is superficial!y attained or forgotten•."
These are the assertions by which it is endeavoured
to show, that the system is not superficial; but, surely,
a more abortive attempt was never made, to refute a
well-founded charge. It is acknowledged, that the
curriculum calls into exercise the knowing faculties
rather than the reflective. It would be more proper to
say, that the boy under this system of education is not
treated as a reasoning creature at all. His reflecting
and comparing powers are not in the least called into
exercise. A great parade is niade about teaching him a
kind of knowledge which, if left to his own guidance, he .
would learn more pleasingly and effectually by reading
the popular publications of the day; while not the
slightest effort is made to induce him to exert the higher
faculties of his mind. He would leave the school per-
fectly unprepared to comprehend an abstruse treatise;
and not at all fitted, by previous training, for detecting
• Philoaophg ofEducation.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
1(>'2 EDUCATION OF THE UPPER CLASSES.
fallacies in reasoning, or deciding tn a case of conflicting
testimony.
125. .And even looking to mere information, how
unfurnished would his mind be, with that sort of know-
ledge whieh is most frequently required in life. He is
to be imbued with certain notions of politics and political
economy, but he is not taught to exercise an enlightened
judgment upon the facts thus presented to him. 'l'he
study of history is precluded from the seminary; and
thus, that branch of information which excites the most
frequent exercise of the moral powers, is not imparted to
the student's apprehension.
Must not a person so educated turn out a prejudiced
and self-sufficient man? Must he not be constantly
liable to ~ led away by crude theories and unfounded
opinions? He is not thoroughly grounded in any one
science; and is consequently unfit to increase his infor-
mation by his own exertions in after life. If he wishes
really to be a philosopher, he must endeavour to forget
all that has been taught him, and lay a sound founda-
tion on which to construct a connected scheme of know-
ledge. He must satisfy himself, that no really valuable
acquisition can be gained by man without labour, and
that knowledge which is obtained with little exertion, is
generally R>ond not to be worth the small price which
bas been paid for it. He must begin again from first
principles, and, by exertion and perseverance, acquire
the mental cultivation of which he has been defrauded
by a faulty and insufficient education.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
163
CHAPTER VII.
ON THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED TO THE WANTS
OF THE WORKING CLASSES.
126. These have not the means of improvement possessed by the other
elaues of society. 127. Cannot Ila.Te & complet.e educat.ion. 128.
Prudence and principle nggest the same conduct, but principle
most efficacious in enforcing it. 129. The poor have a right to be
instructed in religion on aceount of the benefits it confers. 130. No
duty involved in acquiring secular knowledge. 131. Beneficial
effects of pursuit of knowledge. 132. These sometimes overrated.
133. How men use their reason in their daily avocations. 134.
Superior efficacy of pEaCU.cal. principles in the working of society.
135. Peculiar danger of unrelieved study of the material world.
136. Speculative knowledge not 8Ufficient to restrain a man's
de8ires. 137. Great deficiency of parental authority among t.be
poor. 138. Benefits of infant schools. 139. They ought not to
supersede a mother's care. 140. Much information cannot be
imparted in them. 141. Deficiency of phrenologists' system in
moral and religious trai.uing. 142. Revelation the only basis on
which a just knowledge of religion can be founded. 143. The
Bible not wished to be made a common class-book. l«. On the
mode in which the phrenologists wish to teach the nature of God.
145. Close connexion between religion and morals. 146. On the
theory that the human race will ultimately be perfectly happy.
147. Ir true, it would be no comolation to thole who are now
suffering. 148. Superior efficacy of a belief in a future state of
rewards and punishments. 149. Declarations of Christianity on
this subjeet, and unfair repre&entations of 80Dle phrenologists.
126. IN every country which is at all advanced in
civilization, society may be separated into two great
divisions ; those who by their circu01&tances are raised
above the necessity of manual exertion, and those who
are obliged to gain their daily bread by the labour of
their hands. The sum of happiness possessed by either
of these classes, is not greater than that enjoyed by the
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
164 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
other, but their occupations and pursuits are necessarily
different. To the one class a country is indebted for the
production of articles of necessity, convenience, and
luxury ; and to the other it has a right to look as the
source of refinement, civilization, and speculative know-
ledge. By the leisure which the wealth of the upper
classes bestows upon them, they have opportunity for
cultivating their intellect and taste; and by the pursuits
to which some of them are especially devoted, their minds
are necessarily invigorated, and rendei:ed quick in the
apprehension and appreciation of truth.
It is, therefore, no credit to these men, that, as an
order, they are intellectually in advance of the working
classes. In the infinitely more important subject of
morality they may possibly be inferior, but, looking to
their respective circumstances and advantages, we should
naturally expect that the one class should be superior to
the other in intellectual cultivation.
That this might be the case, and thus provision be
made for the advance of a country in civilization, seems
one reason why society has been constituted as it now is;
and it says nothing in disproof of this statement, that
there are many individuals in the richer classes of society
very ignorant and very prejudiced, while, from the
working orders are ever and anon rising men, who
make the most astonishing achievements in literature and
science. All that we contend for is, that the upper
classes, having more leisure, may in general be expected
to have better cultivated minds than the lower.
We have already inquired into the efficiency of the
mode of education which the phrenologists wish to be
adopted, as applied to those individuals who may be
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORKING CLASSES. 165
expected to have, during the remainder of their lives,
leisure for intellectual improvement; and we have found
it not to be likely to answer the anticipations of its
advocates. Its failure seemed probable from its total
deficiency of means to give precise and definiie habits of
,thought to those who were subjected to its discipline, as
well as from other causes.
127. In advancing to the examination of the appli-
cability of this mode of education to the circumstances
of the working classes, some other elements enter into
the discussion, to which it will be necessary shortly to
allude.
In the present state of this country, it is extremely
· doubtful whether it will be possible to retain the children
of the labouring population at school, till they are four-
teen years of age*. No man would more rejoice at the
accomplishment of such a scheme than ourselves, but we
certainly think that, however much its consummation is
to be desired, it does not appear probable. The compe-
tition which our manufactures meet with in every part
of the world, and the difficulty which all who live by
manual exertion experience in maintaining themselves
and families, seem to present equally formidable obstacles
to keeping the children of the working classes so long
unemployed in productive labour. '
The question, then, which presents itself for consi-
deration in this case, is different from that which we had
before us, when we inquired into the efficacy of the pro-
posed plan of education as applied to the children of the
upper ranks of society. We are prevented from believ-
• According to the projected system 0£ education, all the pupils are
to remain at school till they are fourteen.
H3
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
166 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
ing that the working classes can ever be completely
educated, that is, ean ever have their minds so trained as
to be tit for the innstigation and appreciation of abstract
truth. In questions of philosophy, they must be content
to receive the results of the inquiries of others, because
they will not themselves have an opportunity of examin-1
ing into the grounds and reasons of them. If, conse-
quently, the state wishes to educate them in such a way
as shall be most likely to make them useful citizens and
good men, it must not direct its efforts so much to the
training of the understanding, as to the cultivation of
moral and religious principle.
128. It is a most beautiful instance of the wisdom
and goodness of God, that the conclusions of the loftiest
intellect and the simple dictates of conscience prescribe
to every one exactly the same line of conduct. An
enlarged view of his own interest leads a man, from
eelfish considerations, to be honest, virtuous, and bene-
volent, just as truly as an enlightened conscience com-
mands him to be so. The ei'ects to himself are, indeed,
very different, but to the society in which he lives they
are exactly the same.
No man, however, is perfectly wise, and the best
cultivated reason, when it is not strengthened by other
forces, can never be relied on as a continuous principle
of action; and, therefore, considered in this lowest point
of view, as a preveDtive of crime, religion can never be
.Cely omitted in any plan of education. The motives
which it supplies, are alone uniformly efficient and con-
sistent; and, comequeotly, however skilfully a man's
intellect may be trained, he cannot be considered as
completely educated, unless he has been taught to rely
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORKING CLASSES. ] 67
upon the motives which religion supplies as his chief
dissuasive from vice and inducement to virtue. But it
a man's mind has been but imperfectly educated; if
time has not availed for imparting to him an enlarged.
view of the various bearings of society, in this case
religion becomes still more essential as an instrument of
worldly good. A thousand intervening obstacles will
tend to blind such a man to the utility of virtuous
conduct, but religious principle is alike constraining in
all circumstances and in all situations.
129. We hold it, moreover, unwise to look at the
subject solely in this degrading light, and to regard
religion merely as a handmaid to police. It may, indeed,
be well so esteemed, for no measure will ever be so com-
plete a preventive of crime, as the diffusion throughout
a people of the principles of Christianity. But the
highest and best interests of the people themselves have
a right to be considered in the conducting of this argu-
ment. The poor are, by the circumstances of their
situation, shut out from many sources of enjoyment
which are always open to the sons of wealth; but the
consolations, encouragements, and promises of religion,
are offered as freely to the peasant as the peer. The
Divine Founder of Christianity declared that, during his
own ministry, the poor had the Gospel preached unto
them; and why are we now to deprive them of the hap-
piness of being taught in their childhood to look to its
doctrines fo:r advice aud comfort?
If, again, we merely look to education as a means of
enlightening the mind, and invigorating the intellectual
and moral powers, what subject can be presented to man's
apprehension more calculated to dfect this, than the
Digitized by Google
168 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
prospects which religion holds out? What can be so
high-toned as the principles which it inculcates, what so
humanising as the endearments by which it persuades?
It seems to realise in the mind of every peasant who
cordially empraces it, the splendid visions of Plato. It
teaches him to regard himself as a being in whom God
is personally interested; and for whom a way has been
provided, in which he may be purified from the defile-
ments he has contracted, and fitted for the enjoyment
of the happiness which has been purchased for him. It
engrafts in his soul a new principle of virtue, and
nourishes and cherishes the heavenly plant by every
motive which can be most efficacious on the mind of man.
It tells him, that he is never to be satisfied with his own
attainments, but to be always improving in holiness and
advancing towards perfection. ;How valueless and power-
less, as an instrument of amendment, does all other
information appear, when compared with this wisdom
which is from above ! Yet this is the knowledge the
inculcation of which it is intended entirely to exclude
from the proposed national schools. The children of the
poor are to be taught the qualities of leather, and the
properties of glass; but they are to be totally prevented
from obtaining that knowledge which is the key to tem-
poral and eternal happiness.
. 130. This knowledge, moreover, it is morally obli-
gatory on every man to obtain, but in the acquisition of
other information no duty is involved. The acquisition
of secular instruction may be pleasant or advantageous,
but if a man totally neglect it, he does not commit any
crime. Some men, indeed, have stated, that the pursuit
of knowledge is a moral duty; and in replying to them,
TO THE WORKING CLASSES. 169
we shall adopt the remarks of Mr. Dugald Stewart,
which appear to us particularly judicious. "Although,"
he says, "the desire of knowledge is not an object of self-
love, it is not in itself an object of moral approbation.
A person may, indeed, employ his intellectual powers
with a view to his own moral improvement, or to the
happiness of society, and so far he acts from a laudable
principle. But to prosecute study merely from the desire
of knowledge is neither virtuous nor vicious. When
not suffered to interfere with other duties, it is morally
innocent. '!'he virtue or vice does not lie in the desire,
but in the proper or improper regulation of it. The
ancient astronomer, who, when accused of indifference
with respect to public transactions, answered that his
country was in the heavens, acted criminally, inasmuch
as he suffered his desire of knowledge to interfere with
the duties which he owed to mankind. At the same
time it must be admitted, that the desire of knowledge
(and the same observation is applicable to our other
desires) is of a more dignified nature than those appetites
which are common to us with the brutes. A thirst for
science has been always considered a mark of a liberal
and elevated mind; and it generally co-operates with the
moral faculty in forming us to those habits of self-
government, which enable us to keep our animal appe-
tites in due subjection*·"
131. The man who is strongly actuated by a desire
for knowledge, is in general raised above low and
degrading pleasures; and has always before him, an
occupation which is calculated to keep his mind inno-
cently and healthfully employed, and to prevent him
• Phil0$ophg of the Active and MOf'al Power1.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
170 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
from resorting to vicious stimulants to preserve him-
self from ennui. He is protected from that lassitude
which is the result of vacuity of mind, and which always
has a tendency to drive those who are subject to its influ-
ence into intemperance and sensuality.
Considered in this point of view, intellectual edu-
cation must always be regarded as a great benefit; and
all good men who have themselves taken pleasure in
· cultivating their mental faculties, must be anxious, from
. principles of philanthropy, to impart to their fellow
creatures a capability of obtaining similar gratification.
If the desire of knowledge is not in itself an object of
moral approbation, it is, when restrained within due
bounds, equally far from being culpable; it is perfectly
innocent, and so many of men's pleasures are pernicious
and degrading, that it is always beneficial to increase
the number of those which are harmless. He, therefore,
must be considered as a benefactor of bis species, who
has successfully endeavoured to excite in the minds of
others, and properly direct, the principle of curiosity.
132. It must, however, at the same time be
observed, that the advantages of knowledge, and espe-
cially knowledge of the material world, have been in
:!Ollle cases overrated by those who have treated of the
subject By none has this mistake been carried further
than by some of the writers on phrenology. 'l'hey
admit, theoretically, that mere knowledge of the laws of
nature does not ensure their observance, but at the same
time tell us, that it must never be forgotten, that
although mere knowledge be not sufficient, it is a pri-
mary and indispensable requisite to regular observance;
and that it is as impossible to obey the natural laws
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORU1'G CLASSES. 171
without knowing them, as it is to perform any other
complicated and important duty in ignorance of its
practical details•.
If this representation were true, a man would be
incapable of breathing, unless he were perfectly ac-
quainted with the structure and functions of the lungs ;
and a person who did not know the mode in which
chyle was produced from his food, and afterwards mixed
with the animal ftuids, would be unable to derive nutri-
ment from his dinner. The experience of every man is
a sufficient refutation of such a doctrine as this.
But, in truth, so far from a theoretical acqµaintance
with the laws of nature being essential to the observanee
of them, it has really very little to do with that observ-
ance. We have already been led to observe, that men,
in the daily business of life, are actuated, as it were, by
certain instinctive practical feelings, and not by the
cooclusions of their reason. And that they are so, may
be reckoned a merciful and wise dispensation of Pro-
vidence; for if they had always to look to their under-
at.anding far guidance, they would be compelled a
thousand times to stand still, when, by being cooducted
by other principles, they can confidently advance in the
walk ol life.
133. We do not mean to say, that NMUOn ijJ not
used by men in their daily avocations, but that it is put
t.o very different purpoees from speculating oo the laws
al nature. Practical men use it in a much narrower
aphere, and hence they become more vigorous and
expert in their calling. The merchant exerts his under-
standing in discovering the best market for his goods,
• CoKsa's C-titulion of Man.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
172 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAl'TED
but he does not think it necessary to become acquainted
with the natural cause of one market's being better than
another. He is also diligent in his inquiries concerning
the circumstances and character of his customers, but he
does not refer to some natural law for the reason why
they differ in these respects from each other.
The artisan's reason is employed in making himself
as skilful as he can in his proper calling; he exercises his
ingenuity in finding out the way in which he can execute
his allotted task in the quickest and most expert manner;
but it is not at all essential to his skill, to know the
mode in which the substance about which he is em-
ployed, differs from other substances. That may be a
very proper and a very interesting inquiry, but the
satisfaction of it would not make him one whit cleverer
as a workman. It is not essential to the practical
mechanic to know the theory of the composition and
resolution of forces, nor is the person who has acquired
such knowledge, at all better fitted for being a good
handicraftsman. Indeed, the very habits induced by a
philosopher, tend to unfit him for practical skill in the
arts with the theory of which he has made himself
acquainted. When he comes into the world of business,
he is thinking while other men are acting: while he is
meditating on the best way of commencing some work,
a practical man has begun and finished it. The actuating
instincts of the speculatist are swallowed up in his
general views, and while he is endeavouring to make
some new way for himself, the man of business, by fol-
lowing the beaten path, has arrived at the goal of his
wishes.
134. When we turn our attention to the various
Digitized by Google
TO THE WORKING CLASSES,
workings of human society, we see still more clearly the
superior efficiency of instinctive practical principles.
Here, while each man is merely thinking of his own
private advantage, and striving honestly to obtain a live-
lihood for himself, he is really contributing to the welfare
of the human race. He is most probably doing so im-
mensely more effectually by simply trying lawfully to
support himself and family, than if he were to endeavour
to do it from motives of public spirit. "Public spirit,
either in the form of patriotism which looks to the good
of a community, or in that of philanthropy which seeks
the good of the whole human race, implies not merely
benevolent feelings stronger than, in fact, we commonly
meet with, but also powers of abstraction beyond what
the mass of mankind can possess. As it is, many of the
most important objects are accomplished by the joint
agency of persons who never think of them, nor have any
idea of acting in concert; and that, with a certainty,
regularity and completeness which probably the most
diligent benevolence, under the guidance of the greatest
human wisdom, could never have attained*." It is the
tendency of the system which prenologists advocate, to
make every human being substitute for the instinctive
feelings which God has implanted in him, bis own
notions about the framework of society. They would
have us believe, that the condition of the mass of man-
kind would be improved, by changing those powers by
which God now carries on the affairs of the world, for
others which the ingenuity of man might devise.
Of all the subjects of inquiry which can possibly be
presented to the human mind, the working of society is
•ARCHBISHOP WHATELEY's Lectures on Political Economy, Lee. 4.
Digitized by Google
174 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
perhaps the most perplexed and dubious. On no other
thing have so many different opinions been entertained;
on no other is the truth so difficult to arrive at. But,
fortunately for us, the welfare of the human race does
not depend upon the framework of society's being under-
stood, even by the philosopher; much less, therefore, is
its prosperity involved in the intelligence of the mechanic.
If, before a man could be happy or comfortable, it were
necessary for him to understand the law according to
which society is regulated, how few in this world could
hope to escape from misery! This, however, is not the
case. Each individual will much more effectually pro-
mote his happiness by rightly discharging his duty in
the station of life in which he is placed, than by trying
to find out when be is in danger of violating the social
law.
135. We are, moreover, to remember, that an unre-
stricted and unrelieved study of the material world and
the laws of nature, is not without its own appropriate and
peculiar danger. Some, indeed, represent this study as
of itself sufficient to make men virtuous and honest, and
consequently recommend it for adoption and inculcation,
as the grand means of improving the social condition of
mankind.
We, however, are very far from coinciding in this
opinion, and think that mere mental cultivation of any
kind will never be effectual in preserving a people from
crime. For while it tends to raise a man above the
coarse indulgence of his appetites, it exposes and inclines
him t? temptations of another sort. It is an old subject
of observation, that each man is tempted to be discon-
tented with the situation in which he is placed. He has
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORKING CLASSES. .175
a sort of indistinct feeling, that he should be happier if
he were in another condition of life. And has not intel-
lectual cultivation, of itself, a tendency to increase this
disposition in the poor man? He is made acquainted
with many articles conducive to man's enjoyment which
his narrow circumstances prevent him from obtaining.
He is consequently led to repine at his own poverty,
and, step by step, is induced to adopt unlawful and
dishonest means for the gratification of his desires.
This sort of education is calculated to assist in the
developement of right principles, by raising a man above
debasing gratifications; but, if relied on as in itself suf-
ficient to regulate the conduct, will be certain to bring
disappointment on its promoters. Intellectual cultiva,.
tion, separate from moral and religious training, simply
enlarges the sphere of a man's desires, without augment-
ing his power of restraining them. It increases the
number of his temptations, without imparting to him any
faculty by which they may be more eft'ectually resisted.
Bishop Butler says, with admirable truth : "Together
with the general principle of moral understanding, we
have in our inward frame various affections towards par-
ticular external objects. These affections are naturally,
and of right, subject to the government of the moral
principle, as to the occasions upon which they may be
gratified; as to the times, degrees, and manner, in which
the objects of them may be pursued ; but then the prin-
ciple of virtue can neither excite them nor prevent them
from being excited. On the contrary, they are naturally
felt when the objects of them are present to the mind,
not only before all consideration whether they can be
obtained by lawful means, but after it is found they
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
176 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
cannot. For the natural objects of affection continue
so ; the necessaries, conveniences, and pleasures of life,
remain naturally desirable, though they cannot be
obtained innocently: nay, though they cannot possibly
be obtained at all•."'
Now, it is very obvious, that the greater number of
things a man becomes acquainted with, the more numer-
ous must be the objects which he thinks desirable. And
his wish to possess himself of such ministrants to his
gratification, is not at all diminished bY, the fact, that he
has no means of lawfully acquiring them. If, moreover,
the principle of virtue has not been cultivated in a cor-
responding degree, he still allows his mind to dwell upon
them. The longer this affection continues in his breast,
the more irresistible does its power become ; till at last
the idea suggests itself, that the desired object may by
possibility be acquired, though by unlawful and dishonest
practices. While he meditates on this last notion, though
at first it may have been received with a considerable
degree of abhorrence, yet, by degrees, it comes to be
entertained with approbation. Finally, the scheme is
actually put in practice; and the individual in question
falls into the abyss of crime.
It may be said in answer to this statement, that if a
man's intellectual powers are properly cultivated, they
will teach him that his real interest consists in remaining
honest and virtuous. A conviction that his happiness
will be, in the long run, more promoted by abstaining
from an unlawful gratification, than by indulging it, will
as effectually contribute to his morality as any other
motive whatever.
• BuTLBR's .Analogy.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORKING CLASSES. 177
But, on the other hand, it may be urged, that
although on the whole, and in the long run, a man's
interest in this world is promoted by honesty and bene-
volence, yet a conviction of this truth can hardly be
expected to be arrived at, in the vast majority of cases.
Right principles and an enlarged view of utility un-
doubted!y coincide in the line of action which they
respectively recommend ; but there are so many obstacles
to a man's coming to this conviction by a course of intel-
lectual training, that it can never be depended on. It
may be arrived at by a chain of rigid reasoning, but
there are so many tempting by-paths to lead the student
astray, that he is but too likely to mistake his direction.
136. And even if this difficulty were overcome, and
a royal road discovered to these ~nlargecl views of a man's
real interests; still we affirm, that a speculative convic-
tion of the fact is by no means a certain restraint on the
unlawful gratification of a man's desires. If it were so,
every one's honesty and temperance would be in an exact
ratio to his intellectual acquirements. Morality and
knowledge would go hand in hand; and we only need
inquire into the extent of a man's information, in order
to know the goodness of his heart.
All observation and experience, however, show that
this is not the case. When the desire after a wished-for
object has been long indulged, it becomes so overpower- ·
ing as to bear down all the barriers which speculative
knowledge can erect against its progress. A man shuts
his eyes to the consequences of his actions, and, so that
he may experience a momentary gratification, is content
to incur the risk of ultimate ldss and misery. He does
not consult his own real interests; he does not consider
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
178 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
what course of conduct will most effectually promote his
happiness. His attention is entirely absorbed in ob-
taining the object which he longs for, and he thinks no
more of other things than if they did not exist. How
idle, and how useless must it be, to talk to such a man
of the pleasure which an exercise of the higher organs
confers ! Such considerations have no influence upon
him whatever; bis soul is occupied with one object, and
so that he may acquire it, he is wholly regardless what
may be the consequences.
Supposing, again, that by education, a man has been
convinced that his fairest chance of happiness lies in
being on the side or the law ; and that on this account
he is careful not to do any thing contrary to its precepts.
Still, this man exists in a state or hostility to the law :
be dislikes it for the strictness with which it prohibits his
using dishonest acts to possess himself of the things which
he desires. He stands on the watch against it, and when
he thinks he can evade its injunctions, he instantly avails
himself of the opportunity. He may not, at his first
declension from honour, steal, but he uses acts to obtain
money which strict honesty forbids. His downward
course is then rapid, till he finds himself compelled, by
loss of character, to resort to knavery and fraud.
It is a melancholy truth, that the fears which a just
view of human nature would lead WI to have for the
consequences of mere intellectual cultivation, have been
hitherto justified by the result. Statistical details, both
in England and France, have tended to show that where
this sort of education is diffused (without being accom-
panied by religious instruction), crimes against the person
are diminished, but those against property are increased.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THK WORUNG CLASSES. 179
Men in this state of civilization do not derive the same
pleasure as a barbarous people from the gratification of
the revengeful passions; but their desire to possess them-
selves of the means of indulgence is increased by their
extended acquaintance with them. There is a greater
number of tempting objects on which their imaginations
may be fixed; and, consequently, a greater number of
by-paths to lead them from the direct road of probity.
We must, therefore, conclude, that this sort of educa,.
tion, when unaccompanied by any other, has not the
effect of advancing the morality of a people. When,
indeed, it is kept in subordination to discipline of a
higher kind, intellectual cultivation is very much to be
commended. By being able to turn to his books for
amusement, the labouring man has within his reach a
constant protection from vacuity of mind, and, conse-
quently, has not so great a temptation to betake himself
to pernicious stimulants for excitement. The mental
habits, also, which are thus induced, very much tend to
the improvement of the man who is subject to their
influence. They make him less liable to violent bursts
of rage, and render him more amenable to the voice of
reason. They do not, however, of themselves, make him
more moral, and in order to attain this end, we must have
recourse to other means.
We must bear in mind, that childhood and youth
are not only the period for intellectual cultivation, but
also the time in which habits of self-restraint, submission
to authority, and obligation to duty, are to be inculcated.
137. All who have endeavoured to make themselves
acquainted with the actual condition and mental habits of
the poor, must have been struck with the almost total
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
180 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
absence among them of parental authority. They seem
not to have an idea that a father has a right to the obe-
dience of his child. They consequently never attempt
to enforce it. If a child has done some action which
offends them, they perhaps punish him with violence, but
they never try to impress upon him the duty of obedience
and self-restraint. They have a sort of notion, that
doing so would diminish the child's happiness, and there-
fore abstain from attempting it. So far do they carry
this principle, that they sometimes make grievous com-
plaints of a schoolmaster having injured their child, when
he has been correcting him in a way for which he would
have received the thanks of a parent in the upper or
middle ranks of lif'e.
This unfortunate prejudice of the poor has the most
prejudicial effects upon their children, and vigorous
attempts must be made to counteract it, by every one who
has the welfare of the working classes at heart.
188. Viewed in connexion with this object, the in-
stitution of infant schools is much to be commended.
They, in the most effectual way, correct the bad effects
of the mistaken indulgence of parents. They also take
the child out of the influence of bad example: they pre-
vent him from being contaminated by those pernicious
habits which, if' left to himself, he would most likely be
disposed to adopt : and they afford an opportunity of
implanting in his mind, at the first dawn of reason, right
principles of' action. They may well, theref'ore, be called
powerful instruments of good.
139. But, in bestowing upon them due commenda-
tion, we are not to forget, that they are at best but sub-
stitutes for that parental training which, when it can be
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
. ....__..-...,___
TO THR WORXING CLASSES. 181
had, is much to be preferred. No teacher of an infant
school, however well qualified for his office, can have as
benign and beneficial an influence on the mind and heart
of a child as a watchful and considerate mother. It is in
the bosom of a well-regulated family, that the best affec-
tions and most kindly feelings spring up and flourish. It
is there, that those emotions of love and good-will which
niay afterwards embrace within their arms the whole race
of mankind, find their origin and gather strength. It is
to a mother's kindness that a child looks for the gratifica-
tion of all his little wants, and the alleviation of his pains;
and it is consequently from her lips that he most cordially
listens to lessons of morality and religion. His own de-
pendance upon his mother's care and assiduity cannot by
him be traced to its source: he finds it in existence as
soon as he is able to perceive anything; and he naturally
regards her as the author of every comfort which he
possesses. How much greater, therefore, must be the
attention which a child pays to the lessons of an affec-
tionate mother than that which he gives to the directions
of any other person. Who can have an opportunity of
so effectually gaining his confidence, or so firmly fixing
his love?
When, consequently, parents themselves are raised
above the prejudices to which we have alluded, and their
circumstances are such as to free the mother from the
necessity of labour, and give her leisure for the educa-
tion of her children, it is most unwise to substitute for
her assiduity the superintendence of any other person.
God, by implanting in the breast of the mother, feelings
towards her offspring, by which no other creature cali
possibly be actuated, has plainly shown whom He in..
I
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
}82 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
tended to be the first instructor of man ; and this arrange.
ment will never be rashly or unnecessarily interfered with,
by any one who is not wholly under the governance or
aome favourite theory.
In the mamtfacturing population, however, mothers
have neither time nor talents for rightly discharging this
office. As, therefore, some substitute must be found, and
Infant Schools seem admirably calculated for this pur-
pose, we hail with joy their establishment.
'Ve are, indeed, very far from agreeing with those
who think that a better infant education can be given in
them than by a mother who has leisure and ability for
the right discharge of the duty. We reckon them a
substitute for the mother's care, when circumstances
prevent her from properly educating her children ; but
maintain that they are extended beyond their fitting
place, when they are made to supersede, not supply, the
superintendence of a parent.
140. We also are certainly of opinion, that much
real information cannot be instilled into the mind of a
young child. Whatever mental instruction, beyond the
first rudiments of education, may be attempted to be
imparted in these seminaries, will not in after-life, we
1uapect, be of much avail. The child, whose curiosity
has been stimulated in them, and whose mind has ap-
parently received with profit the lessons which are taught,
will not at the age of ten or twelve be found much in
advance of his companion, who has not had so exciting a
mental diet.
There is also a danger of the desire of knowledge
itself becoming so pampered and sated by constant
stimulants as to be altogether obtuse to ordinary objects.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORUNG CLASSES. 188
The child may become a mental epicure, and, unless the
information offered to him be of a particularly pleasing
kind, not give itself the trouble of attending to it.
141. But far the greatest importance is to be attached
to the moral and religious training which is affordl!d in
these schools, as well as in those of elder children ; and
it is here that we chiefly join issue with the phrenological
advocates of the projected system of national edacatioo.
It is here that the faultiness of their theory of human
nature especially shows itself, because it is here that it
comes into directly practical operation.
While they profess themselves to be believers in the-
truth of Christianity, they undisguised!y aim at exclud.
ing its doctrines from being taught in seminaries of·
education which are to be supported by a Christian
people.
Some of them go so far as to denounce a belief in a
future state ofrewards and punishments, which, they say,
when professed and acted on, is calculated to have a
pernicious effect on the moral nature of man. Of course
these philosophers regard the fall of man as an anile and
foolish dogma, and consequently would have it entirely
excluded from a rational education.
Others there are, who, while they profeesedly do not
go so far, yet by their approoation of the work in which
these esoieric doctrines are contained, show that their real
sentiments are not very different.
These men do not openly denounce the fall of man,
but, tacitly assuming the falsehood of the doctrine, regard
human nature as fitted by itsown powers to entertain right
affections towards God. They excludethe consideration of
principle entirely" from the question, and make religion a
I 2
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
184 THE EDUCATION DEST ADAPTED
matter of feeling and sentiment. Duty, even, is not in-
cluded in their theory of morals, but they suppose t'hat
the constitution of man's mind is such that he naturally
prefers a virtuous to a vicious course of life.
142. They tell us, that in their proposed schools
religion will be taught, for the chiidren will be instructed
to reverence and love God on account of the evidences of
his mercy which may be derived from n study of the
works of nature; while as they do not wish to inculcate
on their pupils theology, but religion, the Bible will not
be used as a text-book for instruction. Now, theology is
the science which treats of the nature and attributes of
God..; do the phrenologists, then, not intend to teach
their pupils anything concerning the character of the
Being whom they are to be instructed to worship ? If
they do this, they will undoubtedly be guilty of teaching
the young people theology; and the question then pre-
sents itself, What method is most likely to give children
right notions concerning so important a subject?
God himself, so far from thinking that men are able
by their wisdom to flnd Him out, has deemed it proper te
.give us a revelation, in which He tells us all that it is
necessary, or perhaps possible, for us to know concerning
his nature, and also instructs us in the relation which
subsists between Himself and us. '!'his revelation is not
eouched in a scientific or abstract form, but is strictly
popular, and easy to be understood, even by children•
.The views, also, which it gives of the attributes of the
Supreme, are strictly in accordance with all the notions
which we ~derive from an enlarged and general view
of the works of nature.
The investigations, however, by which theologians
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
---
TO THI!: WORKING CLASSES. 185
have come to this just conclusion, are of such a nature
as totally to preclude the possibility of making them in:.
telligible or interesting to children. If children, then, are
to have any opinions at all on the subject, and not allowed
to have access to the Scriptures, they must receive them
on the authority of their teachers. They must be told
the results of investigations which are too diffic~lt for
them to follow; and thus be taught, at their first entrance
into life, to take propositions for granted, the truth of
which they cannot examine for themselves.
If, however, the Bible is taken for the basis of in-
struction in religion, the case is altered. '!'he teacher
can then inform the children, that the truths he tells them
are contained in a book which God has given us for our
instruction, and which they have the power of examining
for themselves.
In that book God does not reveal himself as a God
of love only, but as a God of righteousness also. He
wills all his creatures to be happy, but only on condition
of their being holy. When, therefore, the children are
taught to look upon him merely as a God of love, they
are taught that which is not true. They not only are
not instructed in the truth, but falsehood usurps its place
in their minds.
The communications of t11e Bible, again, are of such
a character as to be able to attract the attention of a child
at the very dawn of reason. By it praise may be per-
fected from the mouths of babes and sucklings. It in-
forms children as well as men, that God wills them to be
happy by being good, and it points out a way in which
they may become so.
143. One reason which is given for not allowing
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
186 THE EDUCATIO:lol BKST ADAPTED
revealed religion to be professedly taught in these schools
is, that by doing so the Bible would be degraded and
debased by being made a common class-book. They do
not, they say, wish to exclude the Bible from education,
which is by some unfairly imputed to them, but to rescue
it from the ill usage of a common school, and from degra..
dation and perversion.
Now, really,.we do not know what excluding the Bible
from education can mean, if it do not signify studiously
keeping the children who are taught, ignorant of its
revelations concerning the attributes of God, and the
duties of _men .
; and instructing them to go to other
sources for information on these subjects.
It is also unfair in the phrenologists, to represent the
advocates of a Biblical education, as wishing to degrade
the Bible into a common class-book. They do not wish
to associate the Word of God with any debasing ideas in
the minds of the pupils ; but they desire that they may
be taught to look to the Scriptures as the grand criterion
by which to determine whether men's religious sentiments
are right or wrong. The teacher is to refer to the Bible
as the source whence he derives his own knowledge of
religion; to confirm his sentiments by an appeal to its
determinations ; and to tell his pupils, that in all matters
of religion its authority is paramount. By Biblical
education is not to be understood the mere teaching
children to read the Bible; but the educating them in
'the principles which it inculcates, and accustoming them
to look upon it as the chart by which they are to direct
their course through the world. The children are to
have access to the whole Bible; but their attention is to
be especially directed to the most profitable parts of it,·
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
=; dM'
TO THE WOJlUNG CLASSES. 187
and it is the teacher's office to point out to them what
the doctrines are which are peculiar to it.
144. We are also told, that in these schools " the
Creator is always kept in view, not alone as an awful
Judge, seated on high watching the thoughts and actions
of his creatures to reward or punish them hereafter,-a
view of Him which addresses selfishness alone, and never
can produce elevation of feeling, which, as the highest
reach of human happiness, is its own reward,-but as the
present God, the Essence of every thing around us,
guiding us to temporal as well as eternal happiness, by
his infinite wisdom and goodness•."
Premising, that to plain understandings this appears
exceedingly like Pantheism, and that it is very difficult
to conceive how God guides us, if not by rewards and
punishments, we proceed to quote a passage from Butler,
which, to our own mind, conveys a complete answer to
the sentimental effusion. " Against," he says, " this whole
notion of moral discipline, it may be objected in another
way; that so far as a course of behaviour, materially
virtuous, proceeds from hope and fear, so far it is only a
disciplining and strengthening of self-love. But doing
what God commands, because He commands it, is obe.
dience, though it proceeds from hope or fear. And a
course of such obedience will form habits of it. And a
constant regard to veracity, justice, and charity, may
form distinct habits of these particular virtues ; and will
certainly form h~bits of self-government, and of denying
.our inclinations, whenever veracity, justice, or charity
requires it. Nor is there any foundation for this great
nicety, with which some affect to distinguish in this case,
• 81KP80N on Educalion.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
)88 THE JWUCATJON BEST ADAPTED
in order to depreciate all religion proceeding from hope
or fear. For veracity, justice, charity, regard to God•s
authority, and to our own chief interest, are not only all
three coincident; but each of them is, in itself, a jgst and
natural motive or principle of action. And he who begins
a good life from any one of them, and perseveres in it, as
be is already in some degree, so he cannot fail of becoming
more and more of that character, which is correspondent
to the constitution of nature as moral ; and to the rela-
tion, which God stands in to us as moral governor of it :
nor consequently can he fail of obtaining that happiness,
which this constitation and relation necessarily suppose
connected with that character*."
So much, then, for the debasing tendency of those
ideas of God which lead us to regard Him as a rewarder
of the good, and a punisher of the wicked.
145. In truth, man, from the very constitution of
his nature, is always in danger of deviating from what is
right. No mere man has ever yet been heard of who
was perfectly virtuous, and to suppose that such a being
wilrexist, betrays an inclination to speculate contrary to
the universal records of history. We are not, therefore,
to place confident reliance on even the strictest habits of
virtue, or the loftiest conceptions of the beautiful and the
good. Temptations may occur of strength sufficient to
overcome them, and, when the right path of duty is
once departed from, the road is prepared for other
declensions.
The question consequently presents itself, Is there no
extraneous source whence additional strength may be
derived? We answer, that religion holds out the re-
. • BuTLu's .4nalogg.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
---~~-- .-
TO THE WORKING CLASSES. 189
quired assistance. We are aware of the theoretic dis-
tinction which subsists between Theology and Moral
Philosophy. The one treats of the active principles of
our nature, while the other has respect to ·our relation
With God. The one answers the question, What ought
I to do? the other attempts a reply to the query,
Whence am I? and what are my prospects hereafter?
Practically, however, the two subjects are so closely con-
nected, and so deeply influence each other, that they may
be regarded as one. Their connexion has been compared
to that which exists between pure mathematics and
natural philosophy; and we might as well attempt the
solution of the problem of three bodies without using
analytical formulre, as try to obtain just views of our
duties without paying attention to the relation which
subsists between man and his Maker. In point of fact,
let a man be once convinced that there is to be a future
judgment, in which the soul must give account of the
actions done in the body; and the truth will, or at least
ought to, have a prevailing influence over whatsoever he
does in word and deed. The declaration of our Lord,
t' That the hour is coming in the which all that are in
their graves shall hear his (the Son of man's) voice, and
shall come forth ; they that have done good unto tbe-
resurrection of life, and they that have done evil to the
resurrection of damnation," is so awfully important, that
in the mind of him who believes it, it must modify the
whole moral constitution of the universe. It will be im-
possible for him afte)\wards to contemplate his existence
here, separated from his existence hereafter. This world
will be regarded by him as a place of discipline and pro..
bation for another ; and no event can happen to him,.
I 3
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
19() THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTF!D
either adverse or prosperous, which is not viewed under
the light which his eternal interests cast upon it.
Now it is professedly the design of Mr. Combe, in
his work on the Constitution of Man, to regard him as
if at death he ceased altogether to exist. Mr. Co~be's
work .is uniformly referred to by the advocates of the
projected scheme of education with approbation, and he
may likewise be considered as the expounder of the
esoteric doctrines of the phrenologists. We may, there-
fore, hope to gather from his book what kind of know-
ledge may be expected ultimately to be taught in their
schools.
146. In words, he admits a future state of existence,
but professes to form a scheme of morality ; over which
that, or any other truth of religion, has no influence
whatever. He does not regard each individual man as
in a state of improvement or deterioration; but looks at
the whole human race as making successive advances in
civilization and happiness. In his own words, " History
exhibits the human race only in a state of progress to-
wards the full developement of their powers, and the
attainment of rational enjoyment." Had he stopped here,
he would not have stated more than the truth ; for man
certainly developes himself in the page of history, as on
the whole advancing in civilization. The progress may
be sometimes very slow, and, at periods even, he seems
to have grown worse, but, on the whole, he has advanced.
This state of things presents a great and inexplicable
difficulty to every inquirer; for it seems impossible for
us with our present faculties to understand, why man-
kind were not placed at once in a state of society as
highly civilized as it was destined ever to be.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
-
--- ~
TO THE WORXING CLASSES. 191
All those who have attempted to account for this pro-
gressive condition of man have failed in their object, and
frequently fallen into absurdities. Mr. Combe has avoided
this error, but he has slipped int.o one somewhat akin to
it; for he wishes his disciples to believe, that when the
human race has attained to the requisite degree of know-
ledge and civilization, man will be perfectly happy. He
seems to think, that the Creator has allowed no sources
of suffering to exist among men which they have not the
power of removing. When, to use his own phrase, " the
combined operation of the natural Jaws is fully acknow-
ledged, and practically complied with," according to Ms
theory, man will be no longer subject to disease or anx-
iety ; but only have to look forward to one continued
scene of enjoyment.
Having premised, that this theory does not at all
remove the real difficulty of the case, for it leaves the
existence of evil still unaccounted. for ; we observe, that
it may very fairly be questioned whether the capability
of removing all the present sources of human misery, will
ever be put within man's reach. Mr. Combe has adduced
instances, no doubt, in which the draining of lands, and
more commodious building of habitations, have contri-
buted very much to diminish man's liability to disease i
and he argues, that when the time comes that the con-
structors of towns, as well as other persons, shall be
entirely under the influence of the higher faculties, and
perfectly enlightened as to the natural laws, human
suffering may be expected to be di.IJlinished in a corr~
sponding degree.
There are, however, natural calamities and catastro.
phes which no conceivable degree of knowledge and fore.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
192 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
sight can be supposed to enable man to avoid. Lisbon,
in 1755, was almo~t entirely destroyed by an earthquake.
By this awful convulsion of nature many thousand
human beings were at once sent into eternity, and a still
greater number reduced to extreme distress.
Now, are we to believe, that it was the predominance
of the lower faculties which made the Portuguese choose
the beautiful hanks of the Tagus for the site of their
capital? Or are we to understand, that there was some
peculiarity in the nature of the country which· would
have shown them, if they had known the laws of nature,
that an earthquake might be expected to occur there?
We do not think, that either of these suppositions is
tenable; nor do we see how Mr. Combe can avoid the
embarrassment which facts, like that we are considering,
present to his theory, by saying that they nec~ssarily
happen according to the natural laws. It very likely is
essential to the nature of the globe which we inhabit, that
earthquakes should occur; but why should they happen
in crowded cities? Why should there not always be some
mark by which men might know on what situations they
were likely to break out?
We do not suppose these questions can ever be
answered; and the reason why we bring them forward
is to show, that at all events such facts are entirely un-
touched by Mr: Combe's system. They do, we think,
very fairly prove, that there is no reason to conclude that
the Creator intends this earth to be a scene of complete,
or even very great happiness. However much the pro-
gress of science, and the advance of civilization, may
ameliorate the condition of the human race, there still
Will be sufficient sources of suffering to man, to justify
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORXING CLASSES. 193
the assertion, " that he is born to trouble as the sparks
fly upward."
147. And after all, it is but a very poor and unsatis-
factory consolation to a man suffering under poverty,
disease, or tyranny, to tell him that his adversities are
but temporary-temporary, that is, not to himself, but
to his race: he may, very possibly, never be happier or
less miserable than he now is, but the time will come,
thousands of years after, that no man then living will be
liable to such afBictions. The wretch, we think, might
very reasonably answer, What does that matter to me?
Does the fact, that this earth is one day to be filled with
happiness, at all lessen my misery? It rather adds to it,
for why was I born into this wretched world rather than
into the expected scene of universal enjoyment?
148. With what different feelings must the annun-
ciation be received by this sufferer, that this world is but
a scene of probation and discipline for another, in which
the moral habits formed by patience under aflliction will
have full room to develope themselves in glory and
felicity. In this declaration, if its truth can be proved,
he must feel a personal interest. Whatever his condition
may be here, however hopeless his circumstances, however
dark his prospects, still he has the satisfaction to know,
that a scene is approaching in which his condition will
depend on his conduct in this life.
The phenomena of the material world are not the only
sources of suffering to man, nor is it from them that the
most perplexing solicitudes arise in a well-regulated mind.
It is the discordance which subsists between our moral
judgments and feelings and the course of human affairs,
that makes us most fondly look to a future state of retri-
Digitized by Google
194 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
bution. If indeed, we take a large and general view of
the moral world, we have sufficient evidence that the
Creator has attached happiness to a life of probity and
virtue, rather than to one of dishonesty and vice. Still,
however, so many apparent contradictions to this truth
meet our observation on every side, that we gladly betake
ourselves to a future state of retribution as the grand
and availing solution of our difficulties. When our
attention is fixed upon this, it affords a consolation in
distress, and a relief from perplexity, which no other con-
sideration can bestow.
Mr. Combe has endeavoured to show, that death is
the natural termination of such a creature as man, and
therefore is not revolting to the moral feelings. To the
man, however, who views this life but as the introduction
to another, death comes as a welcome messenger. He
confidently believes, that it will relieve him from those
circumstances which now most perplex and annoy him,
and introduce him to a state of being where virtue and
piety will meet with no obstacles to their developement.
He feels that in this life moral and physical evil exists,
but he rejoices to think it will be made to work for his
eternal good, if by patience under suffering, and a reso.
lute resistance to temptation, he improves bis moral con-
stitution.
149. Our convictions on this subject are not allowed
to rest on the comparatively unstable foundations of
evidence derived from a view of the constitution of
;;ture. By the Gospel, "life and immortality have been
brought to light." We are there informed of our true
situation ; and means are afforded us by the use of which
the evils of our condition may~ remedied. It gives ua
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORKING CLASSES. 195
a clue by which the gloomy labyrinth or this world's
difficulties may be safely threaded; and in the all-seeing
eye or a just God presents a motive for rectitude, im-
mensely more stringent than visionary speculations about
the cultivation of the higher faculties. It recommends
us not to be solicitous about our situation here, for tri-
bulation, if rightly home, will work for us a far more
exceeding and eternal weight of giory. It does not
advise us to withdraw ourselves from the world, but
rightly and zealously to discharge our duties to society.
Mr. Combe's remarks on Christianity are so strangely
mistaken, as to render him chargeable with culpable
ignorance, or wilful perversion. He says:-
" Hence they have involved themselves in contradic-
tions; for while it has been a leading principle with
them, that enjoyment in a future state is to be the con-
sequence of the believer attaining to a holy and pious
frame of mind in this life, they have represented the
constitution of the world to be so unfavourable to piety
and virtue, that men in general, who continue attached
to it, cannot attain to this right frame of spirit, or act
habitually in consistency with it. They have not had
philosophy sufficient to enable them to perceive that man
must live in society to be either virtuous, or useful, or
happy; that the social atmosphere is to the mind what air
is to the lungs; and that while an individual cannot exist
to virtuous ends out of society, he cannot exist in a right
frame of mind in it, if the moral atmosphere with which
he is surrounded be deeply contaminated with vice and
error. Individual merchants, for example, cannot act
habitually on Christian principles, if the maxims of their
trade be not Christian, and if the world be so unfavour-
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
196 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTKD
ably constituted that it does not admit of the rules of
trade becoming Christian, then active life and practical
religion are opposed to each other. Divines have labori-
ously recommended spiritual exercises as means of im.
provement in this life, and of salvation in the next; but
have rarely dealt with the philosophy of this world, or
attempted its rectification, so as to render these exercises
truly efficacious. Their minds have been infected with
the first great error, that this world is irremediably
defective in its constitution, and that human hope must
be concentrated chiefly in the next. This may be attri-
buted to the premature formation of a system of theology
in the dawn of civilization, before the qualities of the
physical world, and the clements of the moral world, and
their relationship were known ; and to erroneous inter-
pretations of Scripture, in consequence, partly, of that
ignorance•."
After perusing the above extract, it may be necessary
to remind the reader, that Mr. Combe professes himself
to be a friend to Christianity. We are glad that be has
done so, for, certainly, from the tone and spirit of his
observations we should have supposed exactly the reverse.
He seems to rejoice in having come to the conclusion,
that, according to the accepted exposition of Christianity,
active life and practical religion arc opposed to each
other.
Before examining the grounds on which this singular
friend to revealed religion has arrived at thisdetermination,
umay be beneficial to inquire what are his own opinions
concerning the present state of the mercantile and manu-
facturing world. "At present," he says, "the almost
• Cou•'• Conllilwtion ofMan, p. 5,
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORXING CLASSES 197
universal persuasion of civilized men is, that happiness
consists in the possession of wealth, power, and external
splendour. • • • In consequence, each individual sets
out in the pursuit of these as the chief business of his
life ; and, in the ardour of the chase, he recognises no
limitations on the means which he may employ, except
those imposed by the municipal law. • • • From this
moral and intellectual blindness, merchants and manu-
facturers, in numberless instances, hasten to be rich
beyond the course of nature: that ·is to say, they engage
in enterprises far exceeding the extent of their capacity
and capital ; they place their property in the hands of
debtors, whose natural talents and morality are so low,
that they ought never to have been entrusted with a
shilling; they send their goods to sea without insuring
them, or.leave them uninsured in their warehouses; they
ask pecuniary accommodation from other merchants, to
enable them to carry on undue speculations, and become
security for them in return, and both fall into misfortunes;
or they live in splendour and extravagance, far beyond
the limit of their capital and talents, and speedily reach
ruin as their goal•."'
Now we ask, in the name of all that is fair, what
discredit is it to Christianity that it is diametrically
opposed to such a system as this? Surely, revealed
religion is not to be rejected, because its precepts are
hostile to the maxims of such a trade. If, indeed, Mr.
Combe could have shown that such. a system was in strict
accordance with the spirit of Christianity, or that it took
its origin from the discourses of divines, he might have
had reasonable cause for his hard sayings against our
• COMB.B's Comtilution q, Man, p. 60.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
}98 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAPTED
religion'; but as it is, he ought, if he had been candid
and honest, to have signified his cordial assent to its
doctrines.
The reasons of Mr. Combe's seemingly inexplicable
conduct may, perhaps, be discovered in circumstances
which sometimes happen in his own profession. When
aquacking impostor brings before the public some
medicine which he declares to be a specific cure of a
prevalent disease, his first efforts are directed to preju-
dicing the minds of the ill-informed against the regularly-
educated practitioner. He knows, that while men have
a rational and proper confidence in the prescriptions of
their physician, they will have nothing to do with his
nostrum. He, therefore, tries to lower the character of
his rivals, by calumny and misrepresentation. He is
not, moreover, very particular as to the probability or
consistency of his charges. He makes a host of them,
on the principle, that if you throw plenty of dirt against
a man, some will most probably stick.
Mr. Combe appears to have taken a leaf out of the
book of these respectable members of.society in his treat~
ment of Christianity. He has made charges against it,
some of which are futile, some false, and some contra-
dictory, but they are uttered in big words- and with a
confident manner; there may, therefore, be individuals
foolish enough to lend credence to them. We see that
both divines and phrenologists find fault with the present
constitution of society ; both have their cures for the
evll ; and we perfectly agree with Mr. Combe, that
before his plan is accepted, it is necessary for him to
show the futility of the old one.
Has he, however, succeeded in his effort to effect
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO THE WORUNG CLASSES. 199
_this? He says, that the teachers of Christianity have
involved themselves in contradictions, because they say
that the world is so hostile to piety and virtue, that
those who are attached to it cannot attain to a holy and
pious frame of mind. And if his own representation of
the world be correct, it would be very odd, if they
should preach otherwise. He declares, that at present,
the almost universal persuasion of men is, that happi-
ness consists in the possession of wealth, power, and
external splendour ; and does he mean his readers to
understand, that such a way of think~ng is favourable to
piety or virtue? Divines maintain that it is not; and,
consequently, exhort men not to overrate the value and
importance of riches. They tell their hearers, that the
possession of them has a tendency to induce a condition
of mind most detrimental to men's best interests, and,
consequently, warn them against being too much attached
to them.
Christianity nowhere enjoins upon its members a
withdrawal from the world, but, on the contrary, that
there are specific duties attached to every situation in
life, which all must perform who desire to please God.
It tells the rich, that their possessions are not given
them for their own exclusive and selfish enjoyment, but
are committed to them, with the fearful charge, "Occupy
till I come." It directs men to have their attention
fixed on that awful advent, and so to conduct themselves,
that they may have a good account to give to the Judge
of quick and dead. ··
There is, again, nothing in the profession of an
honourable and conscientious merchant, which is incom-
patible with the principles of Christiani~. He, like all
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
200 THE EDUCATION BEST ADAP1'ED
others, is told to do unto all men, as he would they -
should do unto him; not to be slothful in business; nor
to allow his mind to be so entirely absorbed by .it, as to
make him neglect his higher duties.
In all this, we must confess, that we can see nothing
unpl&losophical, or unbecoming a highly cultivated
mind. The conduct here recommended, appears to us
to he precisely that which would most conduce to the
happiness of him who pursued it, and to that of all with
wh~m he had to do.
Mr. Combe finds fault, again, with our religion,
because its ministers teach that this world is irremediably
defective in its constitution, and that human hope must
be concentrated on the next. But in doing this, they
cannot be said to. diminish human happiness, but rather
to increase it by the addition of a new element. When
divines declare that it is impossible to be entirely happy
in this life, they do not express any peculiar opinion, but
echo the common sentiments of the wisest men in all
ages. In this, indeed, they are singular, that they can
offer to men a well-grounded hope of future felicity on
condition of their obeying the just commands of God:
and He does not require of men any bard task; but
simply declares, that they only shall be happy hereafter
who have lived pious and holy lives here. There are,
indeed, other conditions imposed by Him who has an
undoubted right to do so; but they do not affect the
main question at issue.
That question is, whether a future state of retri-
bution is, or is not, calculated to make men virtuous.
So strongly were the ancient sages convinced of the
affirmative, that they thought it necessary to inculcate
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
TO TRE WORKING CLASSES. 201
its truth upon the people, even though they did not
believe it themselves. 'l'he phrenologists, however, are
of a totlaJly dift'erent way of thinking. They are of
opinion, that .such a belief, even when based upon the
most certain foundations, is prejudicial to morality; and,
therefore, purpose to teach the youth of these realms to
discharge it from their thoughts, and to substitute in its
place some visionary and fantastic notion about the
pleasure of cultivating the higher faculties of the mind.
We, indeed, most firmly believe, that the pious,
honest, and benevolent man, is immensely the most happy
character in the world ; but ever-recurring experience
has taught us, that this truth is not sufficient to restrain
men from evil, or induce them to do what is right.
There must be some stronger and more commanding
motive; and that can only be found in the system which
revealed religion unfolds. Hence it is, that we are con-
vinced that all education, if not based upon religion, will
be found wholly inefficacious in permanently improving
the morals of a' people. By religion alone can their
feelings be attached to virtue ; by this alone can they
be enabled to resist the temptations by which they are
~very where asaailed; by this alone can they reconcile
their own suft'ering and helpless condition with the super-
intending Providence of God.
D1g1!1zed by Goog[e
..
..
..
:LOJ.nlOlf l
~- w. ·~ ttr. au:&Tllf'• L&D.
..
BOOKS
PUBLISHED BY JOHN W. P.ARQR.
THE EDUCATIONAL ECONOMY OF 'ENG.:.
LAND.-P&rt I., On the External Economy of Education; .or,
the Means of Providing Instruction for the People. By the Rev,
JAMES SHERGOLD BOONE, Minister of St. John'sl.Padding-
ton. 31. Gd. • •
ON THE PRINCIPLES OF ENGLISH UNIVER-
SITY EDUCATION. By the Rev. W. WHEWELL, B.D.
61.
A DISCOURSE on the STUDIES of the UNIVER-
SITY of CAMBRIDGE. By the Rev. PROFESSOR SEDG-
WICK. 48,
THE STUDY OF MATHEMATICS conducive to
the Developement of the Intellectual Powers. By PROFESSOR
CHEVALLIER, of the University of Durham. 18. 6d.
THE SPEECH of the LORD BISHOP of NOR-
WICH, delivered in the House of Lords, May 21, 1838, on the
,NATIONAL SYSTEM of EDUCATION in IRELAND; with
.··''an Appendix of Letters on the Causes of the Opposition made to
the System in Ireland; and on the State of the National Schools
in Liverpool. 21,
THOUGHTS of a PARENT on EDUCATION.
By the late Mrs. RICHARD TRENCH. 11. 6d. I
EDUCATION AND TREATMENT OF CHIL-:
DREN; the Mother'• Book, adapted to the use of Parellta a.nd
Teachers. 21. 6d.
THE YOUNG LADY'S FRIEND; a Manual of
Practical Advice and Instruction to Y onng Females, on their
entering upon the Duties of Life, after quitting BchooL By a
LADY. 31. 6d.
o ,9;1;zed by Google
l'UBLJSHED BY JOHN W. PARKER.
CUD.WORTH ON FREEWILL; now first Edited
from Uie Original MS., and with Notes by JOHN .ALLEN, M.A.,
Chapl-.in of King's College, London ; being the First Part of the
ETHI~AL WORKS of RALPH CUDWORTH, D.D., some·
ltme Master of Christ's College, Cambridge. 38.
NATURAL THEOLOGY considered chiefly with
reference to Loan BROUGHAM'S Discouans on that subject. By
THOMAS TURTON, D.D., Dean of Peterborough, and Regius
Professor of Divinity in the University of Cambridge. Second
Edition,&.
The CONNEXION of NATURAL and DIVINE
TRUTH; or, the Principles of the Inductive Philosophy, and the
Study of Secondary Causes, considered as subservient to the Proof
of a First Cause and the Evidences of Religion. By the Rev.
BADEN POWELL, M.A., F.R.S., Savilian Professor of Geome-
try in the University of Oxford. 91.
'l~H~ .TUINITIES OF THE ANCIENTS. The
"' Mythology of the First .Ages, and the Writings of the Pythagorean
School, examined, with reference to the Knowledge of the Trinity
ascribed to Plato, and"other ancient Philosophers. By ROBERT
MUSHET, Esq. &. 6d.
A HISTORY pf the INDUCTIVE SCIENCES,
from the Earliest Times to the Present. By the Rev. WILLIAM
WHEWELL, B.D., &e. Three Vols., 21. 21.
OUTLINES OF GENERAL PATHOLOGY. By
GEORGE FRECKLFA'ON, M.D., Cantab., Fellow of the Royal
~ii! Physicians. 7••
.~.· .
POPULAR• ,PHYSIOLOGY; being FAMILIAR Ex-
PLANAT10Ns of Interesting Facts connected with the STRucruna and
FtlNCTIONll of ANIMALS, and particularly of MAN, By PERCEVAL
B. LORD, M.B., M.R.C.S. With numeroU11 Engravings. 7•. 6d.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF LIVING. By HER-
BERT MAYO, F.R.S., Senior Surgeon of the Middlesex Hospital
~-a..fW.
MANA'G~MENT of the ORGANS of DIGES-
TION, in HEALTJ:I and in DISEASE. By HERBERT
MAYO, F.R.S., Senior Surgeon of the Middlesex H011pital-
6r. 6d.
Digitized by Google
